If you’re hoping to document your vote by taking a photo of your ballot, you may be headed for a legal gray area that in some states has grown only murkier in the days leading up to Election Day.
如果你希望通过给自己的选票拍照来记录你投票的时刻，那你可能是在走向一个法律上的灰色地带。在距离大选日只剩几天的时候，这件事的性质在某些州变得更加模糊了。
Because the laws in several states are muddled, under review or confusing, unsuspecting voters may run afoul of the rules.
因为这项法规在好几个州都不明确——处在复审状态或本身就令人困惑——毫不知情的选民可能会不慎违反它。
Last week, an extensive review by The Associated Press of the array of ballot selfie laws in all 50 states found that 18 states prohibit sharing photos of ballots. Another, California, joined the list on Wednesday, when a federal court judge denied a request to allow them.
上周，美联社(The Associated Press)广泛查阅了所有50各州有关选票自拍的系列法规，结果发现其中有18个州禁止分享选票照片。另外，加利福尼亚州也在周三加入了这个名单，因为一名联邦法院法官否决了一项允许选票自拍的要求。
With only a week until the general election, on Nov. 8, battles are being waged over the legality of so-called ballot selfies in at least three states, including Colorado, Michigan and New York.
在距离大选日11月8日只剩下一周的时候，至少有三个州爆发了针对所谓选票自拍合法性的斗争，即科罗拉多、密歇根和纽约州。
The A.P. found that voting laws were unclear in a dozen states. California was a good example of how confusing the rules could seem to voters: A 125-year-old law barring people from sharing their ballots has been repealed, but the legislative action allowing ballot selfies will not go into effect until weeks after the election.
美联社发现，有12个州的投票法都不明确。加州就是一个很好的例子，显示出这些法规在选民看来有多么令人不解：一部禁止人们分享选票的有125年历史的法规已被废除，但允许选票自拍的立法行动直到大选结束数周后才会生效。
That created a sort of legal limbo for voters: Can they violate a ban that is not being enforced in the first place? Wednesday’s ruling offered some clarity, but residents of other states may still be confused.
这可以说给选民们制造了一种法律上的中间状态：他们会不会违反一项本来就没有在执行的禁令？周三的判决提供了一些明确性，但其他几个州的居民可能依然十分困惑。
In some cases, lawmakers find, antiquated laws collide with the modern tendency to document the goings-on of daily life, which, every once in a while, involves casting a vote.
立法者发现，在有些情况下，陈旧的法规会与记录当下日常生活的现代趋势产生冲突，其中包括间或出现的投票行为。
In Colorado, a federal judge will soon hear challenges to a 125-year-old law that bars people from publishing their ballots, similar to the one in California. In Colorado and New York, publishing a ballot remains a misdemeanor crime.
在科罗拉多州，一位联邦法官即将听取对一部有125年历史、禁止人们发布自己选票的法规——与加利福尼亚州的那部有些类似——发起的法律挑战。在科罗拉多和纽约州，公开自己的选票依然是一项轻罪。
According to The Denver Post, the case for keeping the law protects against possible cases of voter coercion.
据《丹佛邮报》(The Denver Post)报道，保留该法规的理由是防止出现选民遭胁迫的情况。
“We believe the current law protects the integrity of the election and protects voters from intimidation or inducement,” Suzanne Staiert, Colorado’s deputy secretary of state, said in a statement to the newspaper. “In fact, given Colorado’s unique election system and rise of social networking, the prohibition may be more important in Colorado than in other states and may be more timely today than ever.”
“我们相信目前的法律可以保护选举的公正性，防止选民受到威胁或利诱，”科罗拉多州州务卿苏珊·斯泰尔特(Suzanne Staiert)在给该报的一份声明中表示。“实际上，考虑到科罗拉多独特的选举制度，以及社交网络的崛起，这项禁令在科罗拉多或许会比在其他州更加重要，而且可能比以往任何时候都更合时宜。”
This argument was used unsuccessfully by officials in New Hampshire, which overturned a ban on ballot selfies in September. The media company Snapchat was involved in that case and filed an amicus brief that argued ballot selfies were “the latest way that voters, especially young voters, engage with the political process.”
新罕布什尔州的官员也用了这种观点，但没能成功，该州于今年9月推翻了一条有关投票自拍的禁令。媒体公司Snapchat被卷入了这个案件，它提交了一份法院临时顾问文件，称投票自拍是“选民，尤其是年轻选民参与政治进程的最新方式”。
Activists also found the voter-coercion argument moot: “There isn’t much evidence, if any at all, that this kind of activity is actually occurring,” Justin Silverman, the executive director of the New England First Amendment Coalition, told The New York Times in April.
活动人士也觉得选民胁迫的论点存在争议：“有没有证据证明这类活动真的在发生，就算有，也不会太多，”新英格兰第一修正案联盟(New England First Amendment Coalition)常务董事贾斯汀·西尔弗曼(Justin Silverman)今年4月曾这样对《纽约时报》讲。
Because of the muddled laws in several states, some voters are still at risk of breaking the rules. In one high-profile case, the musician Justin Timberlake published a ballot selfie after voting in Tennessee, apparently unaware that doing so constitutes a misdemeanor crime there, punishable by fines and jail time.
因为好几个州的法律并不明确，一些选民仍有违规的风险。在一个引人注目的案件中，音乐人贾斯汀·廷伯莱克(Justin Timberlake)在田纳西州投票后发布了一张选票自拍，他显然不知道在这个州这么做足以构成轻罪，会被处以罚金，还要进监狱。
Mr. Timberlake, however, is not being investigated for his legal slip-up, according to USA Today.
然而，据《今日美国》(USA Today)报道，廷伯莱克没有因他在法律问题上的疏忽而被调查。
In other states, lawmakers seem willing to keep the debate over ballot selfies running down to the wire: In Michigan, an appeals court reversed a lower court’s ruling to allow ballot selfies, leaving voters with just over a week to figure out whether the act was legal in their state.
在其他州，立法者似乎愿意让有关投票自拍的争论进行到底：在密歇根，一家上诉法院驳回了更低一级的法院做出的允许投票自拍的裁决，选民只剩一周多的时间去搞清楚这个举动在自己的州是否合法。
And in New York, three voters filed a lawsuit in October against the ban in a district court. According to The A.P., the judge, P. Kevin Castel, asked why the plaintiffs waited until just before the election to challenge the law.
在纽约州，三名选民于今年10月在一个地区法院对这项禁令提起诉讼。据美联社报道，P·凯文·卡斯特尔(P. Kevin Castel)法官当时问道，为什么原告非要等到选举前才来挑战这项法规。
“I don’t blame him,” said Leo Glickman, the lawyer who filed the lawsuit on behalf of the voters. “We are asking a lot of the courts to do something in a short period of time.”
“我不怪他，”代表三位选民提起诉讼的律师莱奥·格利克曼(Leo Glickman)说。“我们在要求很多法院在很短的时间内做成某事。”
Judge Castel is expected to rule on the ban by the end of the week.
卡斯特尔法官有望在本周内就这项禁令做出裁决。