MOSCOW — In recent months, various prominent public figures, including at least one close associate of President Vladimir Putin, have insisted that Russia officially proclaim Mikhail S. Gorbachev a criminal for abetting the collapse of the Soviet Union.
莫斯科——近几个月来，许多知名的公众人物都坚称：俄罗斯应该正式宣布，米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)是促使苏联解体的罪犯。这些人中至少有一位与弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)关系密切。
Some regularly demand that Gorbachev be put on trial for the events, not least, as one member of parliament put it, to expose the operations of a “fifth column” within Russia.
一些人常常要求就相关事件对戈尔巴乔夫进行审判，尤其是像一位国会议员所说的那样，要揭露“第五纵队”在俄罗斯的所作所为。
Yet when the organizers of Gorbachev’s 85th birthday extravaganza in March approached the landmark Hotel Ukraine about a banquet, its owners refused payment after they learned that it was the former leader being honored.
不过，当今年3月的戈尔巴乔夫85岁生日庆典组织者与乌克兰酒店(Hotel Ukraine)接洽，安排宴会事宜的时候，这栋地标式建筑的所有者在得知寿星老是前总统之后，不肯收取任何费用。
“They said that without Gorbachev they would have ended up as small merchants in the market, criminals dealing in contraband,” said Alexei Venediktov, a close friend and the editor-in-chief of the radio station Echo of Moscow, the main news outlet for liberal Russians. “They said: ‘Now we are the owners of all this thanks to Gorbachev! Not a kopeck!'”
“他们说如果没有戈尔巴乔夫，他们只会成为市场上的小商贩，成为倒卖违禁品的犯罪分子，”戈尔巴乔夫的密友、莫斯科回声广播电台(Ekho Moskvy)的主编阿列克谢·A·韦涅季克托夫(Aleksei A. Venediktov)说。“他们说：‘全靠戈尔巴乔夫，我们现在才能拥有这所有的一切！一个戈比也不要！’”回声电台是俄罗斯的一家重要的自由派新闻媒体。
In an interview, Gorbachev shrugged off the fact that 25 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union, he remains among the most reviled men in Russia.
接受采访时，戈尔巴乔夫对自己在苏联解体25年之后仍然饱受诟病的事实不屑一顾。
“It is freedom of expression,” he said.
“他们有表达的自由，”他说。
Yet the official line denigrating traditional democracy, combined with the very idea that he should face trial, obviously irks him, so he churns out articles, essays and books about the need to enhance freedom in Russia. His latest effort, called “The New Russia” in English, was released in the United States in late May.
但他显然被诋毁民主传统的官方话语以及认为他应该接受审判的观点触怒了。因此他写了很多文章、论文和书籍，来论述在俄罗斯增进自由的必要性。他的英文新书《新俄罗斯》(The New Russia)于5月末在美国出版发行。
There is also great admiration for him among Russians too, of course. Some adore him for introducing perestroika, or restructuring, combined with glasnost, or openness, which together helped to jettison the worst repressions of the communist system. Gorbachev led the way, albeit haltingly, toward free speech, free enterprise and open borders.
当然，也有很多俄罗斯人对他极为仰慕。一些人之所以崇拜他，是因为他推行了改革开放政策，帮助人们摆脱了共产主义体制所带来的强烈压抑感。尽管一路跌跌撞撞，但戈尔巴乔夫的确带领这个国家走向了言论自由、商业自由和边境开放。
“Some love him for bringing freedom, and others loathe him for bringing freedom,” said Dmitri Muratov, the editor of Novaya Gazeta, one of the few remaining independent newspapers and one in which Gorbachev holds a 10 percent stake.
“一些人热爱他是因为他带来了自由，另一些人痛恨他也是因为他带来了自由，”《新报》(Novaya Gazeta)编辑德米特里·穆拉托夫(Dmitri Muratov)说。《新报》是俄罗斯所剩不多的独立报纸之一，戈尔巴乔夫持有其10%的股份。
The society at large blames him for losing the Soviet empire and leaving them citizens of a second-class country, even if individuals recognize that he opened new horizons for them and their children.
俄罗斯社会普遍指责戈尔巴乔夫搞垮了苏维埃帝国，让他们沦为了二流国家的公民，尽管一些人承认，戈尔巴乔夫为他们以及他们的孩子开创了一片新天地。
“The society doesn’t like him; he is the anti-Putin,” Venediktov said. “Putin is the constructor and he is the deconstructor.” He called that perception unfair.
“俄罗斯社会不喜欢他；他站在普京的对立面，”韦涅季克托夫说。“普京被视为建设者，他被视为破坏者。”他认为这种看法并不公正。
In the interview, Gorbachev said, “I keep saying that Russia needs more democracy.” The hourlong interview took place at his shrinking foundation, where his office is dominated by an oil painting of his wife, Raisa, who died of leukemia in 1999.
戈尔巴乔夫接受采访时说，“我反复强调，俄罗斯需要更多的民主。”为时一个小时的采访是在他名下那家日渐式微的基金会进行的。他办公室里最显眼的陈设，是出自妻子拉伊莎(Raisa)之手的一幅油画。拉伊莎于1999年因白血病去世。
“We hear, even from people close to Putin, statements that emphasize authoritarianism, that emphasize decisiveness and that suggest that democracy can only be achieved far into the future,” Gorbachev said. “I think if democracy is firmly rooted, if it is based on elections, if people have the chance to elect leaders at regular intervals, I think that is what we need. That is the basis for stability in foreign and domestic policy.”
“我们听到的很多说法都在强调威权主义，强调决断力，并暗示民主在遥远的未来才能实现，其中一些说法甚至来自和普京关系密切的人士，”戈尔巴乔夫说。“我关注的是，民主是否扎了根，是否以选举为基础，人民是否有机会定期选举领导人，我认为这才是我们所需要的。这也是外交和国内政策保持稳定的基础。”
In his twilight years, Gorbachev has become an isolated figure. Most of his contemporaries are dead. He is just critical enough about the lack of democracy under Putin that state-run television channels avoid him. His death has been announced more than once.
晚年的戈尔巴乔夫成了一个孤立的人物。他的同龄人多已作古。对普京治下的俄罗斯缺乏民主所做的批评，已经足够让国家电视台对他避之不及。他的死讯被宣布了不止一次。
Gorbachev does not fault Putin directly for the lack of democracy in Russia, although he was more critical of the president when his book was released in Russia last year.
戈尔巴乔夫并未把俄罗斯缺乏民主这一状况直接归罪于普京，尽管去年在俄罗斯出书时，他对现任总统做了更尖锐的批评。
“He began suffering from the same disease from which I used to suffer: self-assuredness,” Gorbachev said at the time. “He considers himself deputy-God, I don’t know for what matters, though.”
“他开始患上我患过的那种病：极度自信，”戈尔巴乔夫当时说道。“他认为自己是神的代表，不过我不知道这是为什么。”
He and others listed several reasons for muting his criticism. First, Gorbachev enjoys no immunity from prosecution, and hence like many government critics, feels increasingly uneasy as the Kremlin chips away at civil liberties. He said he feared being declared a “foreign agent,” a revived Stalinist label that basically means “spy,” and that is now being used to shutter dozens of civil society organizations.
他和其他一些人列举了若干他缓和批评的原因。首先，戈尔巴乔夫并不享有被免于起诉的权利，因此随着克里姆林宫不断损害公民自由，他像许多批评政府的人士一样日益感到不安。他说他害怕被认定为“外国代理人”，这个斯大林时期的标签如今再度被启动，基本就是“间谍”的意思。目前，当局正借用这一标签收紧对许多公民社会组织的控制。
“There are quite a few reactionary-minded people in this country who are already declaring me a foreign agent — they think that I am working for someone,” he said. It is quite a statement from a man, who if he had changed nothing, might still be the supreme leader of the Soviet Union, as previous leaders tended to rule for life.
“在这个国家，不少思想保守的人已经开始管我叫外国代理人了——他们认为我在为某个人工作，”他说。说出这句话的这个人如果让一切都保持原样，现在可能依然是苏联的最高领导人，因为他之前的领导人基本都是终身任职。
Second, he casts most of the political and economic ills plaguing Russia as the legacy of his hated archrival, former President Boris Yeltsin, giving Putin a pass as a necessary correction.
其次，他把大多数困扰着俄罗斯的政治和经济问题，都归为他最痛恨的对手、前总统鲍里斯·叶利钦(Boris Yeltsin)留下的烂摊子，对普京则相对宽容，认为他是对前任的一个必要的纠正。
Third, he agrees with Putin on many issues, particularly foreign policy. He supported Moscow grabbing back Crimea, for example, calling the public referendum legitimate — despite its being held at gunpoint. That stance just got him barred from Ukraine for five years.
再次，他在许多议题上同意普京的看法，尤其是在外交政策方面。例如，他支持莫斯科拿回克里米亚，他说全民公决具有合法性——尽管投票是在枪口下进行的。这一立场刚刚导致乌克兰禁止他在未来五年内入境。
As the man most responsible for ending the Cold War, Gorbachev feels betrayed that the West — and the United States, in particular — played the victor and treated Russia like a dismissed serf, bringing NATO forces and the European Union to its very borders.
作为结束冷战的最大功臣，戈尔巴乔夫感觉遭到了背叛：西方——尤其是美国——扮演起胜利者的角色，把俄罗斯当成被解放的农奴来对待，并把北约(NATO)部队和欧盟摆到了俄罗斯家门口。
“There was a mood of triumphalism at the end of the Cold War that was shared by many Americans,” he said. “That was the point of departure for the collapse of everything.”
“冷战结束前存在一种必胜主义情绪，许多美国人都怀有必胜的信念，”他说。“这是所有的一切走向崩塌的起点。”
He parts company with Putin on domestic issues, however, even if he keeps Yeltsin in the foreground.
但他在国内议题上与普京看法相左，尽管他最常批评的其实是叶利钦。
Gorbachev and Yeltsin were longtime rivals who delighted in humiliating each other. Gorbachev gives grudging respect to Yeltsin for intervening to stop the coup that sought to overthrow his presidency in 1991, but low marks for the rest of his chaotic tenure, which gave democracy a bad name in Russia.
戈尔巴乔夫和叶利钦在很长时间里一直是对手，两人都以羞辱对方为乐。1991年，叶利钦平息了一场旨在把戈尔巴乔夫赶下苏联总统宝座的政变，为此，戈尔巴乔夫勉强地向叶利钦献上了一份敬意，但他对叶利钦评价很低，因为其治下的混乱局面，败坏了民主在俄罗斯的名声。
“I still don’t understand why Yeltsin is regarded as a hero in the United States, when he was an authoritarian,” Gorbachev said in his most emotional display, slapping his hand on his desk.
“我至今依然不能理解，为什么叶利钦作为一个威权主义者，在美国会被视为英雄，”戈尔巴乔夫边说边用手拍桌子，这是他情绪最外露的时刻。
Gorbachev travels little now, dividing his time between his office and a dacha outside Moscow. He calls the death of Raisa his “greatest loss.” He is heavier, and his famous birthmark is less prominent. Despite occasional hospital visits, he still downs vodka with friends.
戈尔巴目前基本不出远门，每天不是待在办公室里，就是待在莫斯科城外的乡间别墅。他说拉伊莎的离世是他“最大的损失”。他胖了一些，那块著名的胎记也不那么显眼了。他依然会跟朋友一起喝伏特加，尽管偶尔需要去医院看医生。
Muratov said they often recounted the same joke, based on Gorbachev’s infamous campaign to lower alcohol consumption:
戈尔巴乔夫曾发起过一场恶名远播的、旨在倡导人们少饮酒的运动。穆拉托夫说，他们常常讲的一个笑话，就是以此为素材：
Two men are standing in a long, long vodka line prompted by the limited supply. One asks the other to keep his place in line, because he wants to go over the Kremlin to punch Gorbachev in the face for his anti-alcohol policy. He comes back many hours later and his friend asks him if he had indeed punched Gorbachev. “No,” the man answered despondently. “The line at the Kremlin was even longer.”
由于伏特加限量供应，买酒的人排起了长队。队伍里的一个男人让另一个男人帮他留着位子，因为他要冲进克里姆林宫，朝着推行反酒精政策的戈尔巴乔夫的脸捣上一拳。他过了好些个小时才回来，朋友问他打没打到戈尔巴乔夫。“没有，”他沮丧地说。“克里姆林宫门前的队伍比这儿的还长。”
Various people among the 300 guests at his March birthday party offered toasts to Gorbachev. The ambassadors of the United States, Germany, France and Israel all commended him separately for making the world a more peaceful, stable place.
3月的生日派对一共有300名来宾，许多人起身致辞。美国、德国、法国和以色列大使分别赞扬他让世界变成了一个更加和平、稳定的地方。
One editor from Echo of Moscow radio, Sergei Buntman, gave an ironic toast saying that Gorbachev had wrecked everyone’s quiet existence.
莫斯科回声电台的编辑谢尔盖·邦特曼(Sergei Buntman)祝酒时正话反说，声称戈尔巴乔夫毁掉了所有人的平静生活。
Venediktov would be an esteemed schoolteacher instead of the controversial head of a popular radio station, Buntman said, while Putin would be a respected KGB lieutenant colonel rather than a target of critics worldwide.
邦特曼说，韦涅季克托夫本来应该是一位受人尊敬的老师，而非争议缠身的知名电台负责人；而普京应该是一位受人尊敬的克格勃中校，而非全世界批评人士的靶子。