SEOUL, South Korea — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said his country opposed cutting off oil supplies to North Korea as part of new sanctions being considered in the wake of the country’s latest nuclear test, according to official accounts of his meeting Wednesday with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea.
韩国首尔——根据对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)与韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)周三会晤的官方说法，普京表示，俄罗斯反对切断对朝鲜的石油供应，作为对朝鲜最新核实验的制裁新措施。
The United States and its allies are pushing for a global embargo on oil exports to North Korea as the United Nations Security Council are debating a new round of sanctions against North Korea after its nuclear test on Sunday. Russia has veto power over any such sanctions being considered by the Security Council.
朝鲜周日进行核试验后，美国及其盟友在积极推动对朝鲜的全球石油禁运，联合国安理会正在讨论针对朝鲜的新一轮制裁。俄罗斯对安理会的任何制裁决定都拥有否决权。
North Korea has been importing most of the oil it needs from China. But it has been trying to increase imports from Russia as an alternative source of badly needed energy for its military, as well as for its decrepit industries, amid signs that Beijing was growing impatient with its nuclear adventurism, according to South Korean analysts.
朝鲜一直从中国进口自己需要的大部分石油。不过据韩国分析人士称，朝鲜也在努力增加从俄罗斯的进口，作为其急需能源的军事和衰败工业的替代来源，因为有迹象表明，北京对它的核冒险越来越没有耐心。
During a meeting on the sidelines of an economic summit conference in the eastern Russian city of Vladivostok on Wednesday, Mr. Moon asked Mr. Putin to support the proposed oil embargo. But Mr. Putin said that sanctions and pressure would not persuade North Korea to give up nuclear weapons, said Yoon Young-chan, a spokesman for Mr. Moon.
周三，在俄罗斯东部城市符拉迪沃斯托克举行的一个经济峰会的场外，文在寅请求普京支持石油禁运的提议。但是，据文在寅的发言人尹永灿（Yoon Young-chan，音）称，普京表示，制裁和压力不会令朝鲜放弃核武器。
Stopping oil exports to the country would instead hurt ordinary North Koreans by disrupting hospitals and other civilian facilities, Mr. Yoon quoted Mr. Putin as saying. Mr. Putin said Russia exported less than 40,000 tons of oil a year to North Korea.
尹永灿称，普京表示，停止向朝鲜出口石油只会伤害朝鲜平民，扰乱医院等民用设施。普京说，俄罗斯每年向朝鲜出口不到四万吨石油。
“Without political and diplomatic tools, it is impossible to make headway in the current situation; to be more precise, it is impossible,” Mr. Putin said during a joint news conference with Mr. Moon.
“如果没有政治和外交手段，在目前的情况下，不可能有进展，更准确地说，是毫无可能，”普京在与文在寅举行的联合新闻发布会上表示。
Despite his opposition to cutting off oil exports, Mr. Putin said North Korea’s nuclear and missile tests were a flagrant violation of United Nations resolutions.
尽管普京反对中断石油供应，但他表示，朝鲜的核武器和导弹试验是对联合国决议的公然违反。
But “we should not act out of emotions and push North Korea into a dead end,” Mr. Putin said, according to dispatches from South Korean reporters. “We must act with calm and avoid steps that could raise tensions.”
但是，据韩国记者报道称，普京表示，“我们不应该意气用事，将朝鲜逼上绝路。我们应该保持冷静，避免采取可能升级紧张局势的行动。”
Both Beijing and Moscow have agreed on increasingly tougher sanctions against North Korea, most recently backing a Security Council ban of the country’s coal, iron, iron ore, lead and seafood exports. But the two countries opposed any measures that could destabilize North Korea, a stance Mr. Putin reaffirmed to Mr. Moon on Wednesday.
北京和莫斯科都同意对朝鲜采取更严厉的制裁措施，最近都对安理会禁止朝鲜煤炭、铁、铁矿石、铅和海产品出口的决定表示了支持。但这两个国家反对任何可能导致朝鲜不稳定的措施，普京周三向文在寅重申了这一立场。
They said sanctions have so far done little to stop North Korea from increasing its nuclear and missile capabilities, and that the country remained determined to build a nuclear arsenal despite President Trump’s threatening to rain down “fire and fury” on the country.
他们表示，到目前为止，制裁几乎完全未能阻止朝鲜不断增强自己的核武器和导弹实力，该国依然下定决心构建自己的核武器库，尽管特朗普总统威胁要对该国释放“炮火和怒火”。
Mr. Moon himself has been a proponent of dialogue with North Korea. But as North Korea has escalated tensions recently with a series of missile tests, he has pushed for tougher new sanctions, hoping that they would force North Korea to return to the negotiating table.
文在寅本人支持与朝鲜对话。但是由于朝鲜近期进行了一系列导弹试验，导致紧张局势升级，他也敦促采取更强硬的新制裁措施，期望它们能迫使朝鲜回到谈判桌上。
In his meeting with Mr. Moon, Mr. Putin called on the United States and South Korea to consider the “freeze-for-freeze” proposal from China and Russia in which Washington and Seoul would suspend their joint annual military exercises in exchange for a North Korean moratorium on missile and nuclear tests.
在与文在寅会晤时，普京呼吁美国和韩国考虑中国和俄罗斯的“冻结换冻结”提议，根据该提议，华盛顿和首尔暂停年度联合军演，以换取朝鲜暂停导弹试验和核试验。
Washington and Seoul have rejected the idea out of hand, calling it tantamount to giving up legitimate defense exercises as a reward for halting the North’s weapons program, which is already banned by the United Nations.
华盛顿和首尔立即拒绝了这项提议，称它无异于放弃合法的防卫演习，以回报朝鲜暂停已被联合国禁止的武器计划。
”If North Korea does not stop provocations, the situation could become uncontrollable,” Mr. Moon said at the beginning of his meeting with Mr. Putin.
“如果朝鲜不停止挑衅，局势会变得无法控制，”文在寅在会晤开始时对普京说。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, a close United States ally against North Korea, is also attending the Vladivostok forum and is scheduled to meet with Mr. Putin on Thursday.
日本总理安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)也在参加符拉迪沃斯托克的峰会，计划周四与普京会晤。日本是美国打击朝鲜的亲密盟友。
“We must make North Korea understand there is no bright future for the country if it pursues the current path,” Mr. Abe told reporters before his departure from Japan.
“我们必须让朝鲜明白，它如果继续在目前的道路上走下去，不会有光明的未来，”安倍在离开日本时对记者们说。
The test of what North Korea said was an advanced hydrogen bomb on Sunday was its largest nuclear blast by far.
朝鲜称自己周日试验的是先进的氢弹，这次试验是它到目前为止最大强度的核爆炸。
South Korea’s Defense Ministry estimated the test unleashed 50 kilotons of explosive energy. But Japan’s defense minister, Itsunori Onodera, said his country upgraded its own assessment to 160 kilotons from 120 kilotons after the size of the earthquake the blast generated was revised to 6.1 magnitude.
据韩国国防部估计，这次试验释放了50千吨的爆炸能量。但日本防卫大臣小野寺五典(Itsunori Onodera)表示，在爆炸造成的地震震级被修改为6.1级后，他的国家将自己的估计从此前的120千吨调至160千吨。
Commercial satellite imagery taken after the Sunday test appears to show numerous landslides at the Punggye-ri underground nuclear test site in northeastern North Korea, according to the defense analysts Frank V. Pabian, Joseph S. Bermudez Jr. and Jack Liu, who published a study of the blast on the website 38 North.
据国防分析师弗兰克·V·帕比安(Frank V. Pabian)、小约瑟夫·S·贝穆德斯(Joseph S. Bermudez Jr.)和杰克·刘(Jack Liu)称，周日试验后拍摄到的商业卫星图像似乎表明，朝鲜东北部丰溪里(Punggye-ri)的地下核试验场出现多处塌方。他们在网站38 North上发布了关于这次爆炸的一份研究报告。
North Korea has remained defiant, hinting at more weapons tests.
朝鲜依然表现出挑衅的姿态，表示会进行更多武器试验。
”We will respond to the United States’ gangsterlike racket for sanctions and pressure in our own way,” an unidentified spokesman of North Korea’s Foreign Ministry told its official Korean Central News Agency on Tuesday. “The United States will have to bear full responsibility for the catastrophic consequences.”
“朝鲜将用自己的应对方式对付美国强盗的制裁打压活动，”朝鲜外务省一名身份不详的发言人周二对官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)说。“由此造成的严重后果只能由美国承担。”