Russia’s most prominent opposition leader was sentenced to five years in prison on Thursday for embezzlement, setting off protests that condemned the verdict as part of a campaign by President Vladimir V. Putin to corral the opposition and block the rise of a popular challenger.
本周四，俄罗斯最知名的反对派领导人因挪用公款的罪名被判五年徒刑，该判决引发了抗议，抗议者指责此次判决是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(President Vladimir V. Putin)遏制反对意见、阻挠这位颇具人气的挑战者崛起的行动的一部分。
Aleksei A. Navalny, who famously branded the president’s United Russia political machine the “party of swindlers and thieves,” was apparently singled out by the Kremlin after having grown in stature from his beginnings as an anticorruption blogger and leader of street protests to a populist candidate for mayor of Moscow.
阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)的著名事迹之一是给总统的统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)政治机器打上“一群骗子和贼”的标签。他从一开始的反腐博客作者和街头抗议领袖逐渐成为莫斯科市长的平民候选人，地位日渐上升。这一次，他显然是被俄罗斯政府特意挑了出来。
But it may ultimately be that same popularity — and the threat of further unrest — that keeps Mr. Navalny from prison for at least some time. In what has the fingerprints of a politically designed plan, shortly after he was taken away in handcuffs, the public prosecutor called on the judge to allow Mr. Navalny to go free on Friday pending his appeal. That could keep him out of prison for more than a month, — perhaps temporarily neutralizing the anger at the verdict while allowing him to stand as a candidate for mayor in September.
不过，归根结底，也许正是这样的人气，以及发生进一步动乱的风险，使得纳瓦尔尼至少可以在一段时间里远离监狱。就在纳瓦尔尼被铐走之后不久，根据一份带有政治策划痕迹的计划，公诉人呼吁法官于周五批准开释纳瓦尔尼，允许他在上诉期间暂缓入狱。此举能让他在接下来的一个多月里不必入狱，也许可以暂时平息公众对判决的愤怒，同时还让纳瓦尔尼可以在9月参选莫斯科市长。
As crowds of demonstrators swirled near Manezh Square in Moscow on Thursday night, Dmitri Gudkov, a political opposition leader and member of Parliament who attended Mr. Navalny’s sentencing, wrote on Twitter: “Tomorrow morning he may be released. Manezh, this is thanks to you!” That was later confirmed by Vadim Kobzev, Mr. Navalny’s lawyer, who called it “a clearly political decision.”
周四晚间，成群的示威者聚集在莫斯科马内兹广场(Manezh Square)附近，曾列席纳瓦尔尼庭审的反对派政治领袖兼议员迪米特里·古德科夫(Dmitri Gudkov)在Twitter上写道：“明天早上，纳瓦尔尼也许会获得释放。马内兹广场，这全多亏了你！”这条消息之后得到了纳瓦尔尼的律师瓦季姆·科布泽夫(Vadim Kobzev)的确认，他把开释称为“一个明白无误的政治决定”。
The Navalny case has captivated Moscow. When speaking before a crowd, Mr. Navalny projects a raw, common-man’s charisma. He was the point person in a popular opposition movement that saw huge numbers of demonstrators pour into the streets demanding the rule of law and political reform. But with Mr. Putin’s return to the presidency, his crackdown managed to discourage or frighten many of Mr. Navalny’s supporters — young, professional, tech-savvy Russians — into silence.
纳瓦尔尼的案子吸引了整个莫斯科的深切关注。在民众面前讲话时，纳瓦尔尼散发出一股普通人的原始魅力。他是风生水起的反对派运动的核心人物，在该运动中，大量示威者涌上街头，要求法治和政治改革。然而，随着普京重返总统宝座，他的镇压运动已经成功地阻挠或吓唬住了纳瓦尔尼的许多支持者，迫使他们保持沉默，这些人都是年纪轻轻、精于技术的俄罗斯专业人士。
Mr. Navalny, however, refused to be cowed, and while others fled to preserve their freedom, he willingly stood trial.
然而，纳瓦尔尼拒绝屈服。其他人为保住自由而纷纷逃亡，他却欣然出庭受审。
The sentence represented a threshold for the Kremlin. For the past 12 years, Russian authorities typically refrained from using blunt force to sideline political challengers. Opposition members would be banned from government-controlled television, overwhelmingly the most powerful influence on public opinion. They would be co-opted with jobs or platforms, discredited by the release of embarrassing material or jailed with 15-day administrative sentences. 
此次判决代表了克林姆林宫的一个临界点。在过去12年里，俄罗斯当局通常不会使用直截了当的力量来排除政治异己。反对派成员会被禁止出现在政府控制的电视台的节目里，此类电视台占有压倒性的优势，对民意有着最强大的影响力。当局会用工作或平台来拉拢异己分子，或是用令人难堪的披露材料抹黑他们，或是对他们处以15天的行政拘留。
But Mr. Navalny’s sentence was a rare case when a political opposition leader has been so transparently silenced using Russia’s criminal justice system.
然而，纳瓦尔尼的判决是一个少有的案例，因为在本案中，当局竟然如此公开地利用俄罗斯刑事司法系统来封住反对派政治领袖的嘴。
“I think it’s always hard to say which point is the bifurcation point, the threshold after which there is irreversibility,” said Sergei Guriev, a public supporter of Mr. Navalny and a prominent Russian economist who recently fled to France, fearing his own political prosecution. “But this is certainly one of the big moves.”
谢尔盖·古里耶夫(Sergei Guriev)说，“我想，要辨认出哪个点是临界点总是很难，过了临界点，形势将不可逆转。不过，此事肯定是政府的大动作之一。”古里耶夫是纳瓦尔尼的公开支持者，也是俄罗斯知名经济学家。因为害怕遭受政治迫害，最近他逃到了法国。
“The message is that whatever you do, even if you do socially useful things, if you are in opposition to the government, you are going to jail,” Mr. Guriev said. He added: “He is the face of the Russian opposition. He is the face of the younger generation. What happens to him determines the future of Russia.”
古里耶夫说，“此事传达的讯息是，无论你做什么，哪怕是对社会有益的事情，只要你是在反对政府，你就会进监狱。”他补充说：“纳瓦尔尼是俄罗斯反对派的代言人，也是俄罗斯年轻一代的代言人。他经历的事情将会决定俄罗斯的未来。”
Mr. Putin has shown a willingness to tolerate a certain amount of dissent, particularly on the Internet. But he has drawn the line at political challenges, as he did with the oil billionaire Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who was imprisoned in 2005 after he began backing independent political parties to oppose the Kremlin. He remains in prison.
普京已经表露了忍受一定程度异见的意愿，对互联网上的异见尤其如此。不过，他已经给政治挑战划下了界线，表现就是他对石油大亨米哈伊尔·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail Khodorkovsky)的所做所为。后者于2005年被判入狱，原因是他开始支持反对俄罗斯当权者的独立政党。如今他还在狱中。
Mr. Navalny, 37, a lawyer, had long dismissed the trial as a charade based on trumped-up charges, a contention backed by the United States and the European Union. He remained defiant, spending much of the three-hour session in a local court here posting messages and photographs on Twitter, ignoring an order from Judge Sergei Blinov to shut off all cellphones and denouncing the evidence against him as “falsified.”
37岁的纳瓦尔尼是一名律师，长期以来，他一直对这次审判嗤之以鼻，斥之为一个以捏造指控为基础的猜字游戏。美国和欧盟(European Union)也对他的看法表示支持。他依旧桀骜不驯，在基洛夫地方法院长达三小时的庭审中，他不顾法官谢尔盖·布利诺夫(Sergei Blinov)关闭所有手机的命令，把大部分时间用于在Twitter上粘贴信息和照片，还斥责针对他的证据都是“伪造的”。
Before being led out of court he sent followers one last message: “O.K. Don’t miss me. And most importantly — do not be lazy.”
被带出法庭之前，他向追随者发出了最后的讯息：“没事，不要想念我。最重要的是，不要懒惰。”
If his conviction is upheld on appeal, Mr. Navalny will be banned from public office for life. He has said he wants to be president one day, but he posed a different sort of threat: a steadily growing popularity combined with an incorruptibility that made him impossible to co-opt and a relentlessness in embarrassing officials by disclosing their corrupt dealings.
如果上诉法院维持对他的原判，纳瓦尔尼将终生不得担任公职。他说过希望有一天能当上总统，但他对政府构成了一种不同的威胁：稳步增加的受欢迎程度、让他不可能同流合污的清廉品格以及通过揭露官员的腐败交易让其陷入尴尬境地的不妥协态度。
The United States and the European Union condemned the verdict. Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, said the “United States is deeply disappointed and concerned” by the conviction and called the charges “politically motivated.” He added, “Navalny’s harsh prison sentence is the latest example of a disturbing trend of government actions aimed at suppressing dissent and civil society in Russia.”
美国和欧盟对判决表示了谴责。白宫发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)表示判决让“美国深感遗憾和担忧”，并称那些指控“源于政治动机”。他补充说，“纳瓦尔尼被判重刑是俄罗斯政府镇压异见人士和公民社会的行为趋势的最新例证，这一趋势令人不安。”
President Obama has indicated that he may cancel a trip to Russia in September, in part because of this verdict, and the standoff over Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor seeking asylum in Russia.
奥巴马总统表示，他可能会取消9月的俄罗斯之行，部分原因就是这项判决，以及因寻求俄罗斯庇护的美国前国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)而来的僵局。
Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, issued a statement saying the verdict “raises serious concerns as to the state of the rule of law in Russia.”
欧盟外交事务高级代表凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)发表了一份声明，称该判决“引发了对俄罗斯法治状况的严重担忧”。
As the five-year prison sentence was delivered, some of Mr. Navalny’s supporters burst into tears. He turned and hugged his wife, then shook hands with some supporters before being led away by guards. Mr. Navalny’s parents were also in the courtroom, and at one point bickered with bailiffs who complained that they were not standing up.
在法官宣读五年监禁的判决时，纳瓦尔尼的部分支持者潸然泪下。被警卫带走之前，他转身拥抱了妻子，然后又同部分支持者握手。纳瓦尔尼的父母也在法庭上，一度还同埋怨他们没有起立的法警发生了争吵。
While the guilty verdict was widely expected, the charges against Mr. Navalny, of stealing nearly $500,000 from a state-controlled timber company, were considered thin by many legal experts and had been thrown out as baseless after a local investigation. The case was resurrected by federal officials in Moscow, and the Kremlin had made little effort to mask the political motivation of the prosecution.
尽管人们普遍预计纳瓦尔尼会被判有罪，许多法律专家仍然认为，称他从一家国有木材公司盗走了近50万美元的指控难以令人信服，此外，经过当地的调查，这些被判定毫无根据的指控曾遭驳回。重提该案的是莫斯科的联邦官员，克里姆林宫几乎没花什么力气来掩饰起诉纳瓦尔尼的政治动机。
Mr. Navalny was convicted along with a co-defendant, Pyotr Ofitserov, a businessman who had worked with him on the timber project when Mr. Navalny was an unpaid adviser to the regional governor here. Mr. Ofitserov, a father of five who has not been politically active, was sentenced to four years in prison. Each man was also fined more than $15,000.
纳瓦尔尼和同案被告、商人彼得·奥菲采罗夫(Pyotr Ofitserov)一起被判有罪。在纳瓦尔尼担任基洛夫州州长的无薪顾问时，奥菲采罗夫曾在木材项目上同纳瓦尔尼共事。有五个孩子的奥菲采罗夫在政治上并不活跃，他被判四年监禁。两人都被处以超过1.5万美元的罚款。
The judge’s findings were largely based on the testimony of a third man accused in the scheme, Vyacheslav Opalev, who pleaded guilty and worked with the prosecution. In his decision, Judge Blinov called Mr. Opalev’s testimony trustworthy and reliable. But during the trial, Mr. Opalev at times gave contradictory evidence, and defense lawyers were not allowed to cross-examine him. In addition, Judge Blinov barred the defense from calling 13 witnesses.
法官的结论主要是基于该案第三名被告维亚切斯拉夫·奥帕勒夫(Vyacheslav Opalev)的证词，奥帕勒夫承认有罪，并同检方进行了合作。在判决中，布利诺夫法官(Blinov)称奥帕勒夫的证词可信、可靠。但在审判期间，奥帕勒夫不时给出自相矛盾的证据，而辩护律师也没有得到对其进行交叉质询的机会。此外，布利诺夫禁止辩方传唤13名证人。
The crime novelist Boris Akunin, who is also a political opposition leader, said the verdict showed there was little hope to change Russia by democratic means.
同为反对派政治领袖的犯罪小说作家鲍里斯·阿库宁(Boris Akunin)说，判决表明，通过民主方式改变俄罗斯的希望很渺茫。
“Lifetime deprivation of elections — this is what the verdict means, not only for Navalny but for all who thought it was possible to change this system through elections,” Mr. Akunin wrote. “As long as the Putin regime is alive, there will not be elections.”
“判决意味着剥夺选举权终生，对纳瓦尔尼来说是如此，对所有原以为可以通过选举来改变这个制度的人来说也是如此，”阿库宁写道，“只要普京政权存在，就不会有选举。”