WASHINGTON — The war in Ukraine that has pitted Russia against the West is being waged not just with tanks, artillery and troops. Increasingly, Moscow has brought to bear different kinds of weapons, according to American and European officials: money, ideology and disinformation.
华盛顿——乌克兰的战事使得俄罗斯与西方国家对立起来，而参与这场战争的不只有坦克、大炮和军队。据美国与欧洲官员透露，莫斯科正在越来越多地动用另外一些武器：金钱、意识形态和虚假信息。
Even as the Obama administration and its European allies try to counter Russia’s military intervention across its border, they have found themselves struggling at home against what they see as a concerted drive by Moscow to leverage its economic power, finance European political parties and movements, and spread alternative accounts of the conflict.
就在奥巴马政府及其欧洲盟友试图阻止俄罗斯跨越边境进行军事干预的时候，他们发现，自己还要在本国境内疲于应付俄罗斯的种种动作。他们表示，莫斯科发起了联合行动，利用经济力量，为欧洲政党及运动提供资金，并传播有关乌克兰冲突的不同说法。
The Kremlin’s goal seems to be to sow division, destabilize the European Union and possibly fracture what until now has been a relatively unified, if sometimes fragile, consensus against Russian aggression. At the very least, if Russia can peel off even a single member of the European Union, it could in theory prevent the renewal later this month of economic sanctions that are scheduled to expire absent the unanimous agreement of all member states.
克里姆林宫的目标似乎是播撒分裂的种子，破坏欧盟的稳定，乃至打破至今仍然比较一致但不时显露出脆弱迹象的反对俄罗斯入侵的共识。如果俄罗斯能够使一名欧盟成员脱离统一阵线，那么至少理论上，它可以阻止定于本月晚些时候到期的经济制裁得以延期。倘若所有成员国没有达成一致意见，经济制裁将会终止。
President Obama arrived in Germany on Sunday for a Group of 7 summit meeting at which he plans to rally European allies to stand firm against Russia, especially as violence flares again in eastern Ukraine despite a shaky cease-fire. In the days leading up to his trip, both American and European officials publicly voiced concerns about President Vladimir V. Putin’s subterranean — and sometimes more overt — efforts to win allies in the West.
奥巴马总统于周日抵达德国，参加七国集团峰会。他计划利用此次峰会联合欧洲盟友来坚定地与俄罗斯对抗，特别是因为，虽然已经达成脆弱的停火协议，但乌克兰东部再次爆发了暴力活动。在奥巴马奔赴德国的前几天，美国和欧洲官员均公开表示，担心俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)通过地下——有时会更为公开——动作来在西方赢得盟友。
“As it tries to rattle the cage, the Kremlin is working hard to buy off and co-opt European political forces, funding both right-wing and left-wing anti-systemic parties throughout Europe,” Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said in a speech last month at the Brookings Institution in Washington. “President Putin sees such political forces as useful tools to be manipulated, to create cracks in the European body politic which he can then exploit.”
“克里姆林宫试图激怒西方。它正在竭力收买、塑造欧洲的政治力量，为欧洲各地的右翼和左翼反体制政党提供资金，”美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)上个月在华盛顿布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)发表讲话时称。“普京总统将这些政治力量视作可以操纵的有效工具，能够通过它们在欧洲民众之中制造分裂，从而为他所用。”
That is a conclusion shared by Britain’s government.
英国政府也同意这一观点。
“On the question of Russian money, yes, of course we are concerned about what is clearly a Kremlin strategy of trying to pick off, shall we say, the brethren who may be less committed or more vulnerable in the run-up to the June decision,” said the British foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, last week. “It will not have escaped the Kremlin’s notice that this is a unanimity process and they only need one.”
“在俄罗斯资金的问题上，是的，我们当然担心。这明显是克里姆林宫试图逐个击破目标的策略，可以说目标就是那些在6月作出决定前可能没那么坚定或比较容易动摇的兄弟们，”英国外交大臣菲利普·哈蒙德(Philip Hammond)在上周表示。“克里姆林宫不会没有注意到，这是一个必须取得一致同意的程序，而他们只需要击破一个就够了。” 
Whether the strategy will succeed remains uncertain.
这项策略能否奏效仍有待观察。
American officials and European diplomats said they were confident for now that the sanctions would be renewed at a European Union summit meeting to be held in Brussels on June 25 and 26. Germany, the union’s most dominant member, supports extending sanctions until next January, and smaller nations may be loath to defy Berlin. But there is no appetite for adding more sanctions, as some American officials would like.
美国官员和欧洲外交人员称，他们目前有把握，在6月25日到26日在布鲁塞尔举行的欧盟峰会上，这些制裁措施的实施期限将被延长。欧盟的领头羊德国支持将制裁延至明年1月，而较小的国家也可能不愿违背柏林的意愿。但是，与美国一些官员的希望背离的是，各国并没有增加制裁措施的兴趣。
Russia’s efforts to influence the West have taken on different forms.
为了影响西方，俄罗斯采取了不同形式的举动。
Russia has traditionally used its status as an energy supplier to sway customers in Europe, and it is now pressing countries in southeastern Europe, including struggling Greece, to support a new natural gas pipeline project with promises of economic benefits. Russian oligarchs have long kept so much of their money in Cypriot banks that the island nation is seen as a financial outpost for Moscow.
过去，俄罗斯常常利用其能源供应国的地位来影响欧洲的客户，而它现在正在向欧洲东南部的一些国家——其中包括正在苦苦挣扎的希腊——施压，希望它们为一个新的天然气管道工程提供支持。俄罗斯承诺，这一工程会给对方带来经济效益。一直以来，俄罗斯寡头会把大量资金放在塞浦路斯的银行，所以这个岛国被视作莫斯科的金融飞地。
For several years, Russia has paid for a government-sponsored insert in newspapers and websites in 26 countries (including in The New York Times). More recently, it has proposed expanding RT, its international television network, which broadcasts in English and three other languages and delights in pointing out the foibles of the West, to French and German.
数年来，俄罗斯安排文章刊登在26个国家的报纸和网站上（其中包括《纽约时报》），出资方是俄罗斯政府。最近，它还提出要把其国际电视网络“今日俄罗斯”(RT)扩张到法国和德国市场上。这家电视台用英语和其他三门语言播放节目，喜欢指出西方的缺点。
American and European officials have accused Moscow of financing green movements in Europe to encourage protests against hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a move intended to defend Russia’s gas industry. And a shadowy “troll farm” in St. Petersburg uses Twitter to plant fake stories about chemical spills or Ebola outbreaks in the West.
美国和欧洲官员还指责莫斯科在为欧洲的一些绿色运动提供资金，以鼓动反对水力压裂的抗议活动。此举意在保护俄罗斯的天然气行业。圣彼得堡的一家神秘的“发帖工厂”还利用Twitter来散布谣言，宣称西方发生了化学品泄漏或埃博拉疫情。
Since long before the Ukraine crisis, money has been a means for Mr. Putin to try to shape events in the West.
早在乌克兰危机爆发之前的很长一段时间，金钱就一直是普京试图影响西方的一种工具。
After Chancellor Gerhard Schröder stepped down in Germany, he was given a lucrative position with Gazprom, the Russian state energy giant. When President George W. Bush was in office, Mr. Putin asked “would it help you” if Donald L. Evans, Mr. Bush’s close friend and former commerce secretary, were given a high-paying Russian corporate job. (Mr. Bush rejected the idea.)
德国前总理杰哈德·施罗德(Gerhard Schröder)卸任之后，在俄罗斯国有能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)获得了一个待遇颇丰的职位。乔治·W ·布什(George W. Bush)担任美国总统期间，普京曾询问，如果布什的密友、前商务部长唐纳德·L·埃文斯(Donald L. Evans)在俄罗斯企业获得一个高薪职务，“会不会对你有所帮助”。（布什拒绝了这一提议。）
Russia appears to be getting some traction lately in countries like Greece, Hungary, the Czech Republic and even Italy and France. Not only is it aligning itself with the leftists traditionally affiliated with Moscow since the Cold War, but it is making common cause with far-right forces rebelling against the rise of the European Union that are sympathetic to Mr. Putin’s attack on what he calls the West’s moral decline.
俄罗斯似乎最近在希腊、匈牙利、捷克共和国，甚至意大利和法国等一些国家获得了支持。它不仅与自冷战以来一直与莫斯科结盟的左翼成为同道，同时还与反对欧盟崛起、支持普京抨击西方道德滑坡的极右翼势力找到了共同目标。
The most prominent example has been the National Front in France, which under Marine Le Pen has confirmed taking an $11.7 million loan from the First Czech-Russian Bank in Moscow, which has been tied to the Kremlin. She has denied a news report that the money was just the first installment of an eventual $50 million in loans to help her party through a presidential election in 2017.
最明显的例子是法国的国民阵线(National Front)。由马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)领导的这个政党已经证实，从莫斯科的第一捷克俄罗斯银行(First Czech-Russian Bank)获得了1170万美元的贷款。这家银行与克里姆林宫有关。有新闻报道称，这笔钱只是帮助该党角逐2017年总统大选的总额5000万美元的借款中的第一笔，但勒庞否认了一说法。
Austria’s far-right Freedom Party denied charges of dependency on the Kremlin, allegations made by its left-wing rival, the Social Democratic Party after the Freedom leader, Heinz-Christian Strache, posted pictures of himself and other party leaders at a conference in Moscow that called for an end to sanctions against Russia. Mr. Strache said in a statement that “we are convinced of our neutrality and we do not get financial donations or credits” from Russia.
奥地利极右翼的自由党(Freedom Party)否认了有关其依附于克里姆林宫的指控。提出这一说法的是该党的左翼竞争对手社会民主党(Social Democratic Party)。此前，自由党领导人海因茨-克里斯狄安·史特拉赫(Heinz-Christian Strache)发布了一张自己和其他政党领袖在莫斯科一场会议上的照片。该会议呼吁结束对俄罗斯的制裁。史特拉赫在一份声明中说，“我们对自己的中立性有信心，我们不接受俄罗斯的捐赠资金或贷款。”
The German tabloid Bild reported that the anti-euro Alternative for Germany Party had benefited from cheap gold sales from Russia, which the party denied. There have been investigations into some members of Hungary’s far-right Jobbik Party for any financial ties to Russia. And there have been similar accusations and inquiries in Bulgaria, with its far-right Attack Party; in Slovakia, with its People’s Party; and in the Baltic States, especially with Latvia’s pro-Russian party.
德国小报《图片报》(Bild)报道，反欧元的德国新选择党(Alternative for Germany)，曾经从来自俄罗斯的廉价黄金销售中受益。该党否认了这种说法。还有人调查了匈牙利极右翼政党“为了更好的匈牙利运动党”(Jobbik Party)的一些成员，看他们是否与俄罗斯有财务关系。保加利亚极右翼的攻击党(Attack Party)、斯洛伐克的人民党(People’s Party)，以及以拉脱维亚的亲俄政党为代表的波罗的海各国的政党，都受到了类似的指责和质疑。
Far-right parties seen as aligned with Moscow vote against resolutions in the European Parliament critical of Russia and have sent observers to referendums and elections in separatist-held regions of Ukraine like Crimea and Donetsk, alongside members of some far-left parties like Die Linke in Germany and KKE in Greece.
被认为与莫斯科结盟的极右翼政党在欧洲议会的表决中，会投票反对不利于俄罗斯的决议，并且曾派遣观察员到乌克兰由分裂势力控制的地区，如克里米亚和顿涅茨克，观察那里的公投和选举，同他们一起的还有极左翼政党成员，如德国的左翼党(Die Linke)和希腊的KKE。
The Political Capital Institute, a research organization in Budapest, which first documented Russian interest in Eastern European far-right parties in 2009, reported in March that Moscow’s interest had now spread to Western European countries as well. It listed 15 far-right European parties as “committed” to Russia.
布达佩斯的政治资本研究院(Political Capital Institute)在2009年率先记录了俄罗斯对东欧极右翼政党的兴趣。该机构周三报告称，莫斯科的兴趣现在已经扩大到西欧国家。它列出了15个“忠于”俄罗斯的极右翼欧洲政党。
The institute’s report said the newfound affiliations “are not necessarily financial, as commonly assumed,” but may involve professional and organizational help. Either way, it said, “Russian influence in the affairs of the far right is a phenomenon seen all over Europe as a key risk for Euro-Atlantic integration.”
该机构的报告称，新出现的这些附属关系“并不一定像人们普遍猜想的那样，存在于财务方面”，而是可能涉及专业和组织上的帮助。报告称，无论是以哪种方式，“俄罗斯对极右翼事务的影响是欧洲各地的普遍现象，已经被看做是欧洲-大西洋一体化的主要风险。”
Carl Bildt, a former prime minister and foreign minister of Sweden, said the trend was a major concern for Europe. It is “very clear that the Kremlin has every interest in fracturing Europe in whatever ways possible,” he said by email. “And it actively seeks to play on every division that it sees.”
曾担任首相的瑞典外交部长卡尔·比尔特(Carl Bildt)说，这个趋势是欧洲的重大担忧。“显然，克里姆林宫想要以一切可能的方式分裂欧洲，”他通过电子邮件表示。“它正积极地寻求利用它发现的每一处分歧。”
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has expressed similar worries about what he calls Russia’s “ability to employ other instruments of power” besides armed force.
美国参谋长联席会议主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)对俄罗斯除武力之外“运用其他实力工具的能力”，表达了类似的担忧。
“President Putin considers NATO to be a threat and will look for opportunities to discredit and eventually undermine the alliance,” he said in an email forwarded by a spokesman. “Putin’s ultimate objective is to fracture NATO.”
“普京总统认为NATO是一个威胁，会想方设法抹黑并最终削弱这个联盟，”他在通过发言人转发的电子邮件中说。“普京的最终目标是分裂NATO。”
But Fiona Hill, a former national intelligence officer on Russia and now a scholar at the Brookings Institution, said that with the exception of Ms. Le Pen’s party in France, the assertions about Russia financing European parties seemed based more on speculation than facts.
不过，负责俄罗斯事务的美国前最高情报官员、布鲁金斯学会学者菲奥娜·希尔(Fiona Hill)说，除了勒庞领导的法国政党，关于俄罗斯为欧洲政党提供资金的论断似乎更多是基于猜测而不是事实。
“The question is how much hard evidence does anyone have?” she asked. “And it’s useful for the Russians themselves not to refute rumors and maybe even perpetrate some of them. They want everyone to think everyone is corrupt, everyone can be influenced.”
“问题在于，谁能有多少确凿的证据？”她反问道。“俄罗斯人自己不否认传闻，可能还散布了一些传闻，这对他们自己有利。他们想让大家觉得人人都腐败，人人都可能被影响。”
Either way, David Kramer, a former assistant secretary of state under Mr. Bush and now a scholar at the McCain Institute for International Leadership in Washington, said he thought that any Russian financing of European parties could backfire by alienating the governing elite in Europe.
布什政府的前助理国务卿、麦凯恩国际领导力研究所(The McCain Institute for International Leadership)学者戴维·J·克雷默(David J. Kramer)说，无论如何，他认为只要俄罗斯为欧洲政党提供了资金，都有可能产生一个始料未及的后果，那就是疏远了欧洲执政的权贵阶层。