MOSCOW — Many of the great empires of the past thought of themselves as having grand global missions. The European colonial powers of recent centuries liked to think of themselves as bringing the advantages of Western civilization to less fortunate lands. The Soviet Union — at least among its more idealistic adherents — was dedicated to spreading the gospel of Communism. In turn, the United States embraced the spread of free-market capitalism and democracy as its international mission.
莫斯科——昔日的很多强大帝国，都认为自己负有全球性的伟大使命。几个世纪前，欧洲殖民列强自诩把优越的西方文明传播到了落后的国度。苏联则致力于散布共产主义福音——至少它那些非常理想主义的追随者是这么做的。现在，信奉自由市场资本主义和民主的美国，也觉得传播它们是自己的国际使命。
Today, the president of my country, Vladimir Putin, also has a grand vision of what Russia’s place in the world should be. The problem is that no one really knows exactly what his goals are or how he plans to achieve them. What’s worse, perhaps he himself doesn’t know. The big question is, what message does this send to the rest of the world?
如今，对于俄罗斯在世界上的定位如何，我国的普京总统也有一个宏伟愿景。问题是，没有人真正知道他的确切目标是什么，以及他又有怎样的计划来实现这些目标。更糟的是，也许连他自己都不知道。而最大的问题在于，这向世界其他地方释放了怎样的信号呢？
It’s not that Mr. Putin hasn’t spoken about his vision, or rather, two of his visions. One is the protection of Russians who he says, by the accidents of history, now live in the world beyond the Motherland. The other is the creation of a vast Eurasian economic union. But these two goals contradict each other.
这并不是说，普京还没有谈到过他的愿景，实际上他提到两个愿景：一是为某些俄罗斯人提供保护，普京说，由于历史原因，这些人现在没有生活在祖国的怀抱之中；二是建立巨大的欧亚经济联盟。但是，这两个目标却是相互矛盾的。
Mr. Putin has famously characterized the collapse of the Soviet Union as the 20th century’s largest catastrophe. He later pointed out that he was referring mostly to the “humanitarian” (rather than the ideological) aspect of that historic collapse. Since the 1990s, millions of Russians have found themselves outside their country’s post-Cold War borders. Russia, therefore, has to reconstruct and embrace its own, ethno-centric version of that new international doctrine — the responsibility to protect.
普京很出名的一件事是把苏联崩溃形容成20世纪最大的灾难。后来他表示，他主要说的是那次历史性崩溃的“人道主义”（而非意识形态）方面。自20世纪90年代以来，数以百万计的俄罗斯人发现自己住在冷战结束后的国家的边界线之外。因此，俄罗斯必须重建和拥抱那个新的国际信条——“国家保护责任”（Responsibility to Protect），而其采纳的版本是俄罗斯自己的，以民族为中心。
But before he could begin to act upon that goal, Mr. Putin had to set the stage. In the decades since the fall of Communism, Russian leaders, including Mr. Putin, were preoccupied with ending their country’s internal disarray. Mr. Putin has succeeded in doing so, but his agenda has been achieved through negative measures, by removing all hindrances to the smooth operation of the Kremlin — those bothersome elements that the West sees as the building blocks of democracy: a free press, impartial courts, citizens’ associations and opposition parties.
但在他开始向这一目标迈进之前，普京必须先做好准备工作。因为在共产主义垮台后的几十年里，包括普京在内的俄罗斯领导人都忙于理顺国内的混乱局面。普京已经成功地做到了这一点，但他采用的却是负面手段；他让克里姆林宫得以平稳运作，方法是清除所有障碍——而在西方眼中，这些令人烦恼的元素却正是民主的基石：自由的媒体、公正的法院、公民组织和反对党。
Thus, our president has succeeded in making the press compliant, Parliament acquiescent, the courts obeisant and business neutralized as a political actor. This has all been helped by strong economic growth and periodic outbursts of patriotic militarism, maintained through broad if unenlightened public support. (Although Mr. Putin has repeatedly declared that Russia has made an unambiguous choice in favor of democracy, he likes to point out that the “standards used in some countries could hardly be put into practice or are inapplicable in other countries.”)
因此，我们的总统已经成功地让新闻界、议会、法院变得顺从听话，也令商界褪去了政治色彩。这一切都得益于强劲的经济增长，爱国主义、军国主义活动的周期性爆发，以及可能有些无知的公众的广泛支持。（虽然普京一再宣称，俄罗斯已经做出了迈向民主的明确选择，他也喜欢指出，“某些国家使用的标准，在其他国家很难付诸实践，或不适用其他国家。”）
This raises the question: Can a leader whose actions are so negative at home become a successful player in international politics? It is no accident that the conflict in Ukraine started over the prospect of Kiev signing an association agreement with the European Union. The Kremlin has a traditional antipathy to following rules set by other powers. And the European association agreement would have introduced a set of rules that Moscow would not have been able to control or change.
这就提出了一个问题：如果一名领袖在国内的举动如此负面，他能在国际政坛中成为一个成功者吗？就在基辅要和欧盟签署联合协议的时候，乌克兰冲突开始爆发，这并非巧合。克里姆林宫历来都很反感其他势力制定的规则。欧盟签署联合协议可能会带来一套莫斯科无法控制或改变的规则。
Mr. Putin has justified his Crimea land grab and his manipulation of East-West divisions in Ukraine by asserting that he was acting to protect Russians living abroad. Yet no evidence of harassment against Russian citizens has emerged. Even during the violence on the Maidan in Kiev, only one Russian citizen was reportedly killed. Nevertheless his persistent rhetoric was instrumental in persuading dozens of radical Russian nationalists to join separatist militias in Donetsk and Lugansk. Many of those volunteers have died fighting the Ukrainian Army. One can hardly call this a successful campaign to protect citizens abroad.
普京以保护境外俄罗斯人为由，吞并了克里米亚，并煽动乌克兰东部与西部分裂。但是，没有证据显示俄罗斯公民受到了侵害。即使在基辅独立广场的暴力冲突持续期间，据称也只有一位俄罗斯公民丧生。不过在普京那套执着说辞的影响下，数十名激进的俄罗斯民族主义者在顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克加入分裂派民兵组织。这些志愿者中有很多都死于和乌克兰军队的交火之中。你很难说这是成功地保护了境外公民。
Meanwhile, his other big project, Eurasian integration, has been haphazardly unfolding. Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia formed a customs union in 2010, went on to declare the creation of a common economic space in 2012, and last month signed a treaty to establish the Eurasian Economic Union. Armenia and Kyrgyzstan have promised to join before the end of this year, but the whole project has been undermined by the glaring absence of Ukraine.
与此同时，他的另一个大计划，即欧亚一体化，也在杂乱无章地展开。2010年，白俄罗斯、哈萨克斯坦和俄罗斯组建了一个关税联盟，于2012年宣布建立共同经济区域，上月又签署了一项条约，建立了欧亚经济联盟(Eurasian Economic Union)。亚美尼亚和吉尔吉斯斯坦已经承诺在今年年底前加入，但是由于乌克兰的明显缺席，整个计划已经遭到了破坏。
The treaty proclaims that its adherents will benefit from “four freedoms” — of movement of goods, services, capital and labor. But many policy differences remain, and the formation of a supranational governing organization and joint monetary and financial policies have been postponed. The parties are expected to proceed to a uniform set of regulations in 19 economic sectors, but the rules governing the most important market — the oil and gas sector — may not be in place before 2025.
该条约宣称，其成员国将从“四个自由”——商品、服务、资本和劳动力的流动——中受益。但政策上的分歧依然大量存在，而且组建一个超国家治理组织，以及实现联合的货币和财政政策的计划已经被推迟。这些国家预计将在19个经济部门实施统一法规，但在最重要的石油和天然气行业，统一规则可能无法在2025年之前到位。
A union that includes Ukraine, with its population of 44 million (more than twice that of Kazakhstan and four times greater than Belarus), would have a more diversified economy and strong — if severely strained — ties to Russia’s industrial complex.
乌克兰有4400万人口（是哈萨克斯坦的两倍多，比白俄罗斯多四倍），如果它能加入，这个联盟可能会拥有更加多元化的经济，和俄罗斯工业部门之间的纽带也会更加牢固——虽然纽带可能会绷得很紧。
“From an economic point of view, Ukraine’s market and strong industrial base could have been a crucial element in the development of the integration process,” writes Timofei Bordachev, a prominent Moscow economist. He says that Ukraine could have acted as a counterweight to Kazakhstan, “whose political importance now outweighs its real potential” and that it “could have offered constructive opposition to Russia.”
“从经济角度来看，乌克兰的市场和雄厚的工业基础本来可以成为欧亚一体化进程中的关键因素，”著名的莫斯科经济学家提莫菲·博尔达切夫(Timofei Bordachev)写道。乌克兰可以用来制衡哈萨克斯坦，后者的政治重要性现在远远超过其真正潜力，乌克兰还“可能会以建设性的方式对俄罗斯提出反对”，他说。
And therein lies the problem. If Mr. Putin’s grand project is based on a vision of ethnic nationalism, he needs to continue putting pressure on Ukraine, including support for the Russian-speaking separatists in the east and south. If his priority is a Eurasian union, which depends upon international cooperation, he needs to include Ukraine.
问题就在这里。如果普京的宏大计划是从民族主义的角度出发，他就需要继续对乌克兰施加压力，比如为乌克兰东部和南部那些讲俄语的分裂分子提供支持。如果他把有赖于国际合作的欧亚联盟摆在首位，那么他就需要和乌克兰拉近关系。
The vision of ethnic solidarity might be tempting for the Kremlin because it is a proven tool to rally domestic support for almost any policy. But it’s a dangerous path that would further isolate Russia. The integration project, however difficult and less popular, has the potential to eventually produce lasting ties between Russia and the world.
对于克里姆林宫来说，民族凝聚的愿景可能富有吸引力，因为它是一个行之有效的工具，几乎可以为任何政策争取到民众的支持。但这是一条危险之路，可能会导致俄罗斯的进一步孤立。而欧亚一体化计划，无论多么困难，多么不招人待见，最终却有可能让俄罗斯和这个世界之间形成长久纽带。