KIROV, Russia — An appellate judge on Wednesday suspended a five-year sentence handed down over the summer to Aleksei A. Navalny, the anticorruption crusader and blogger whose role as Russia’s leading opposition politician was highlighted by an unexpectedly strong showing in Moscow’s mayoral election last month.
俄罗斯基洛夫——周三，一位上诉法官做出裁定，暂缓执行今年夏天做出的对反腐斗士、博客作家阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)的五年判决。在上个月的莫斯科市长选举中，纳瓦尔尼表现得出人意料的强势，突显了他作为俄罗斯主要反对派政治人物的政治地位。
The ruling meant that Mr. Navalny, who arrived at the Kirov Regional Court lugging a backpack of clothes to take with him to prison, will remain free, although he is prohibited from traveling outside his home city, Moscow, and possibly from taking part in electoral politics.
这一裁定意味着纳瓦尔尼仍将拥有自由，虽然他被禁止离开他所在的城市莫斯科，可能也无法参加任何与选举有关的政治活动。纳瓦尔尼当天拖着一个装满了衣服的背包来到基洛夫州法院，准备坐牢。
The decision, by Judge Albert A. Prytkov, left the sense that Mr. Navalny, 37, had won his freedom by defying expectations with his strong showing in the election, elevating his status and cementing his position as the main political opponent of President Vladimir V. Putin.
法官阿尔贝特·A·普雷特科夫(Albert A. Prytkov)做出的这项决定让人们感到，37岁的纳瓦尔尼通过在选举中的强劲表现，一改各方对他的预期，从而赢得了自由，提升了自己的地位，并巩固了他作为总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)主要政治对手的地位。
Mr. Navalny told reporters that although the ruling was a victory, it was “nothing to celebrate” because it could interfere with his future political career. Under a 2012 law that was partially struck down by Russia’s constitutional court last week, making its status unclear, convicted felons are prohibited from running for public office. Also, under terms similar to probation, any minor violation could prompt a judge to order Mr. Navalny to serve the whole term. He will need to check in with a parole officer every two weeks.
纳瓦尔尼告诉记者，虽然这一裁定是一个胜利，但“并不值得庆祝”，因为这可能会影响到他未来的政治生涯。2012年俄罗斯通过一项法律，已定罪的重罪犯禁止竞选公职。但上周，俄罗斯宪法法院裁定这项法律的部分内容违反宪法，这让该项法律的地位变得不能确定。另外，纳瓦尔尼目前相当于是处在缓刑期，任何小过失都有可能让法官裁定他按原判决服刑。每两周，他都需要向一位假释官报到。
The trial judge, Sergei Blinov, sentenced Mr. Navalny on embezzlement charges in July in a trial widely denounced as rigged. But another judge released him a day later pending the appeal, acting on a request by the same prosecutor who had just won the conviction, suggesting some high-level confusion over what should be done. Mr. Navalny used the window of freedom to revive his campaign for mayor of Moscow, finishing in second place with 27 percent of the vote.
7月，法官谢尔盖·布利诺夫(Sergei Blinov)以贪污罪名判决纳瓦尔尼，人们普遍指责这场判决被人操纵。但在第二天，另一名法官就依照那位刚刚成功让他获罪的检察官的要求，释放了等候上诉的纳瓦尔尼，这显示出高层在决策上的混乱。纳瓦尔尼利用了这段自由的时间来重启他竞选莫斯科市长的活动，最终收获了27%的选票，位列第二。
The decision to release Mr. Navalny in July appeared to reflect divisions among Mr. Putin’s advisers but was seen as supported in particular by Sergei S. Sobyanin, the mayor of Moscow, who won the election against Mr. Navalny. It was among the most competitive campaigns here in a decade.
7月对纳瓦尔尼做出的释放决定看来显示出普京顾问间的分歧，但人们也看到莫斯科市长谢尔盖·S·索比亚宁(Sergei S. Sobyanin)对他的特别支持。索比亚宁最终击败纳瓦尔尼赢得了选举。这可谓是十年内竞争最激烈的选战之一。
Analysts argued that Mr. Sobyanin, who was all but assured of victory, wanted Mr. Navalny’s candidacy to create an appearance of competition and add legitimacy to the race.
分析人士认为，当时，索比亚宁的胜选基本上没有任何悬念，因此他希望纳瓦尔尼参与竞选，来营造出一种竞争的表象，以增加选举的合法性。
Another consideration was surely the protests by thousands of people who immediately took to the streets of Moscow after the sentence was issued in July, and the strong likelihood of further big protests were Mr. Navalny to be jailed again.
另一个考虑无疑是成千上万的纳瓦尔尼支持者的抗议活动。他们在7月份宣判后就立即走上莫斯科街头，那么假使纳瓦尔尼再次被监禁，很有可能会出现更多的大规模抗议活动。
Judge Prytkov’s decision suggested a willingness by the Kremlin to tolerate Mr. Navalny’s often stinging criticism of Mr. Putin in exchange for the appearance of greater legitimacy for the Russian political system.
普雷特科夫法官的决定揭示出，克里姆林宫愿意容忍纳瓦尔尼以及他时常对普京做出的尖刻批评，以换取俄罗斯政治体制拥有较强合法性的表象。
On his blog, Mr. Navalny thanked his supporters. “The credit belongs to you, not to me,” he wrote. “You have shooed off the Toad on the Pipeline, poking it with a sharp stick,” he continued, using his usual nickname for the Russian president.
纳瓦尔尼在博客中对他的支持者表示感谢。他写道，“功劳属于你们，而不是我。”他还表示，“你们拿着尖利的木棍猛戳，赶走了管道上的蟾蜍。”纳瓦尔尼通常使用这个绰号指代普京。
The prosecution was built on false testimony, Mr. Navalny said, and the proceedings were railroaded through a provincial court that refused his requests for witnesses and outside experts.
纳瓦尔尼表示，指控依据的是虚假证词，一家州级法院草率地完成了审判，拒绝接受纳瓦尔尼提请证人及外部专家作证的要求。
But ultimately these details mattered little, Mr. Navalny suggested in an interview before the hearing, while walking to the courthouse. “Everything that happened last summer and everything that happens today depends on Putin,” he said.
但开庭前，纳瓦尔尼在走向法院的途中接受采访时暗示，这些细节说到底并不重要。他说，“去年夏天以及现在发生的所有事情都取决于普京的决定。”
“I have no idea what comes into his head, or the heads of the perverts who surround him,” he said, not letting up even while all but knocking on the gates of the gulag. “All the prosecutors, all the lawyers, all the judges are just extras here.”
就算将要敲响古拉格的大门，纳瓦尔尼也毫无畏惧。“我不知道他和那些环绕着他的变态们都在想些什么，”他说。“所有的检察官、律师、法官都不过是跑龙套的。”
Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, denied in a comment to the RIA Novosti news agency that the Kremlin had swayed the court in any way on Wednesday.
普京发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)周三通过俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)发表评论，否认克里姆林宫曾以任何方式对法院施加影响。
Mr. Navalny, who first gained recognition in the financial community in Moscow as an advocate for minority shareholders in state companies, defied expectations by using social networking and grass-roots organizing to broaden his appeal and breathe new life into the beleaguered opposition to Mr. Putin.
纳瓦尔尼最初因为维护国有企业小股东的权益而在莫斯科金融界获得了认可。他出人意料地利用社交网络和草根组织来扩大他的影响，并为陷入困境中的普京反对派注入新活力。
On Wednesday, lawyers for Mr. Navalny and Pyotr Ofitserov, a businessman Mr. Navalny is accused of aiding in a scheme to steal the proceeds from a lumber sale, filed motions requesting that an independent economist be allowed to analyze the transaction and that the court hear additional witnesses. Judge Prytkov denied both motions.
纳瓦尔尼被控帮助商人彼得·奥菲采罗夫(Pyotr Ofitserov)盗取木材销售收益。周三，纳瓦尔尼及奥菲采罗夫的律师向法院提出申请，要求由一名独立的经济学家对交易进行分析，并要求法院听取更多证人的证词。普雷特科夫法官拒绝了上述申请。
Mr. Navalny’s lawyer, Olga S. Mikhailova, also told the court that the conviction should be overturned because it violated several rights protected by the European Court of Human Rights, including protections against political prosecution. A page of text in the verdict, she pointed out, had been copied word for word from the indictment.
纳瓦尔尼的律师奥尔加·S·米哈伊洛娃(Olga S. Mikhailova)还向法院表示，定罪应该被推翻，因为这侵犯了几项受到欧洲人权法院(European Court of Human Rights)保护的权利，比如保护个人不受政治迫害。她指出，判决书中有一页完全照搬了起诉书中的内容。
In his closing statement, Mr. Navalny, whose humor and willingness to thumb his nose at the Kremlin have been intrinsic to his political success, noted that he had already delivered his last words before prison in July, and so did not want to go through the trouble of a lengthy speech again.
纳瓦尔尼的幽默感及对克里姆林宫呲之以鼻的态度使他获得政治上的成功。在最后陈词中，纳瓦尔尼表示，他在今年7月入狱前已经做了最后表态，因此不想再费劲发表长篇大论。
“The last word of the accused should be a dramatic moment in his life,” he said. “But they opened so many cases against me that this will not be my last chance to have a last word.”
“被告做最后发言的时候应该是他人生中富有戏剧性的一刻，”他说。“但他们针对我立了那么多案，这绝不会是我最后一次做最后发言的机会。”