MOSCOW — After a wave of euphoria among Russia’s political elite over the unexpected victory of Donald Trump, President Vladimir Putin on Thursday gave a more measured response in his annual address to the nation, calling for cooperation but expressing misgivings over some of Trump’s statements about nuclear weapons.
莫斯科——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)出人意料的胜选在俄罗斯政治精英中引发了一阵欣喜，但本周四，普京在全国性的年度演讲中做出了更加慎重的回应，他呼吁两国开展合作，但同时也对特朗普关于核武器的声明表达了疑虑。
The Russian leader appeared remarkably subdued at what was widely seen as a moment of triumph for him, with his popularity rising on a cresting wave of anti-establishment and often pro-Russian populism in Europe and the United States.
政界广泛认为现在是普京的胜利时刻，随着反建制和常常亲俄的民粹主义在欧洲和美国崛起，普京的人气也在高涨，但他在这次讲话中显得非常有节制。
Speaking to an audience of political and economic barons, Putin praised his compatriots for rallying around “patriotic values” and, counterintuitively, for eschewing the lure of populism.
在向政济界的精英发表的这番讲话中，普京赞扬同胞们团结在“爱国价值观”周围，避开了民粹主义的诱惑，这种说法有点出人意料。
He lamented that around the world, “even in the most seemingly affluent countries and stable regions, more and more fractures and conflicts on political, ethnic, religious and social grounds are rising.”
他遗憾地表示，在世界各地，“甚至在看似最富裕的国家和稳定的地区，政治、种族、宗教和社会方面也出现了越来越多的分裂和冲突。”
Those remarks had to surprise Western officials who have accused the Kremlin of stirring up and supporting precisely those anti-establishment forces so as to sow disorder and weaken liberal democracies.
这些言论当然让一些西方官员感到惊讶，他们曾指责正是克里姆林宫在煽动和支持那些反建制的势力，从而制造混乱，削弱自由民主。
Putin did not mention Trump by name, saying only that Russia wanted to work with the incoming U.S. administration “to normalize and begin to develop bilateral relations on an equal and mutually beneficial basis.”
普京没有提到特朗普的名字，只说俄罗斯想与美国新政府的合作变得“正常化，并在平等互利的基础上发展双边关系”。
His comments largely reprised the message he gave Trump in a telephone call soon after the Nov. 8 election, when both men agreed that something needed to be done to improve “the absolutely unsatisfactory state of bilateral relations.”
普京本次的发言，与他在11月8日美国大选后不久，给特朗普的电话传达的信息大致相同，当时两人都同意需要做一些事情，来改善“非常令人不满意的双边关系的状态”。
In a departure from his speeches in recent years, Putin avoided sarcastic or downright angry comments about the United States. But he also made clear that Russia demanded to be treated as a global power, not the “regional power” that President Barack Obama described it as in 2014, infuriating Moscow.
与近几年来的发言不同，普京这次没有讽刺美国，或者直接进行愤怒的抨击。但他也明确表示，俄罗斯要求被视为全球性的力量，而不是奥巴马总统在2014年描述的“地区力量”，当时此话曾让莫斯科勃然大怒。
“We have a joint responsibility for the provision of international security and stability, for the strengthening of anti-proliferation regimes,” Putin said, referring to efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
在谈到防止核武器扩散时，普京说，“对于维护国际安全与稳定，强化反扩散机制，我们负有共同的责任。”
Syria and the importance of fighting Islamic extremism are areas in which Putin’s interests and Trump’s statements seem to coincide. Putin, who has repeatedly accused the Obama administration of mollycoddling extremists, said the U.S. needed to focus on “a real rather than dreamt-up threat” and join Russia in fighting international terrorism.
叙利亚和反对伊斯兰极端主义的重要性，似乎是普京的利益和特朗普的言论存在交集的领域。普京曾多次指责奥巴马政府纵容极端分子，他说美国需要把重心放在“一个并非想像出来的真正威胁上”，和俄罗斯一起打击国际恐怖主义。