NICOSIA, Cyprus — When Cyprus seized hundreds of millions of dollars from bank depositors, many of them Russians, as part of an internationally brokered deal two years ago to rescue its collapsing financial system, the Russian leader, Vladimir Putin, denounced the move as “dangerous” and “unfair,” warning of a sharp chill in relations.
塞浦路斯尼科西亚——当塞浦路斯为履行两年前在国际社会的干预下所达成的协议，大举没收银行储户——其中许多是俄罗斯人——的存款时，俄罗斯领导人弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)谴责此举“危险”而“不公平”，并警告称两国关系可能会急剧降温。前述协议的目的在于拯救塞浦路斯濒临崩溃的金融体系。
But Putin was all smiles recently when he received Cyprus' president, Nicos Anastasiades, in Moscow, hailing relations with the Mediterranean nation as “always being truly friendly and mutually beneficial” and agreeing to extend — on greatly improved terms for Cyprus — a $2.5 billion Russian loan.
然而，当普京最近在莫斯科接待塞浦路斯总统尼科斯·阿纳斯塔夏季斯(Nicos Anastasiades)时，他却笑容满面，称赞俄罗斯与地中海国家的关系“一向真正友好互利”，并同意延长一笔价值25亿欧元（约合168亿元人民币）的俄罗斯贷款——修改后的借贷条款大大有利于塞浦路斯。
The shift from fury to declarations of eternal friendship displayed Putin's well-known flair for tactical back flips. But it also showed his unbending determination to break out of sanctions imposed on Russia by the U.S. and the European Union for Moscow's annexation of Crimea and support for armed rebels in eastern Ukraine.
由愤怒到宣布永恒友谊的转变，表现了普京著名的后空翻技巧。但这也表明，他誓要打破美国和欧盟(European Union)因莫斯科吞并克里米亚和支持乌克兰东部武装分裂分子而对俄罗斯实施制裁。
Putin has methodically targeted, through charm and cash and by fanning historical and ideological embers, the EU's weakest links in a campaign to assert influence in some of Europe's most troubled corners. One clear goal is to break fragile Western unity over the conflict in Ukraine.
借助魅力和金钱，以及历史和意识形态的余烬，普京有计划地把目标对准了欧盟最薄弱的环节，以期巩固它对欧洲一些最动荡不安的角落的影响力。其中一个明确目标，就是打破西方国家在乌克兰冲突方面的脆弱联盟。
On Wednesday, Greece's new left-wing prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, is the next to visit Moscow. Before the trip, Tsipras declared himself opposed to sanctions on Russia, describing them as a “dead-end policy.”
周三，希腊的新左翼首相阿莱克斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)也将访问莫斯科。出行前，齐普拉斯宣称自己反对制裁俄罗斯，称这些制裁措施为“没有出路的政策”。
On Sunday, Putin's efforts to peel away supporters from the EU opened a new rift, after the U.S. ambassador in Prague criticized a decision by the Czech president, Milos Zeman, to attend a military parade in Moscow on May 9. And in February, Putin visited Hungary, the EU's autocratic backslider, peddling economic deals.
周日，普京离间欧盟支持者的行动制造了一道新的裂痕；此前，捷克总统米洛什·泽曼(Milos Zeman)参加莫斯科在5月9日的一次阅兵式的决定，遭到美国驻布拉格大使的指责。2月，普京访问了正在倒退到独裁统治的欧盟国家匈牙利，兜售其经济协议。
Russia has so far been unable to turn such hand-holding into something more concrete against sanctions that require the approval of all 28 EU members. But pressure for a rupture is building.
目前，俄罗斯还无法把这种牵手变成更具体的、需要28个欧盟国家全体批准的反制裁措施。但是关系破裂的压力正变得越来越大。
Speaking in an interview last week here in Nicosia, the capital of Cyprus, Anastasiades said Cyprus had grave doubts about Europe's policy toward Russia and was part of a “group of member states who have the same reservations.”
上周，阿纳斯塔夏季斯在塞浦路斯尼科西亚接受采访时说，塞浦路斯严重质疑欧盟对俄罗斯的政策，并且表示它只是“持有相同保留意见的多个成员国”之一。
He ruled out breaking ranks with what for the moment remains a consensus in favor of keeping up economic pressure on Russia. But he said he expected a unanimous vote in favor of lifting sanctions when they come up for review this summer.
目前，对俄罗斯保持经济压力仍然是一种共识，他表示不会推翻这种做法。不过他说，等到制裁条款在今夏接受审核时，他希望人们会一致投票支持解除制裁。
He said he was convinced that Putin “realizes the consequences of further military involvement” in Ukraine and “means business” in putting in place a cease-fire agreement reached in February.
他说，他确信普京“意识到了在军事上进一步干预”乌克兰事件的“后果”，而且对于将2月达成的停火协议实施到位持“认真态度”。
The cracks opening up in Europe's policy toward Russia have presented a difficult problem for Donald Tusk, the former prime minister of Poland who is now president of the European Council, a body in Brussels that represents the EU's 28 leaders.
对于波兰前总理、欧洲理事会(European Council)现任主席唐纳德·图斯克(Donald Tusk)而言，欧洲在俄罗斯政策上出现的裂缝是一个难题。欧洲理事会是设在布鲁塞尔的一个机构，代表着欧盟的28位领导人。
“To keep Europe united is today the biggest challenge,” Tusk said last month, referring to “the very fragile and difficult consensus” reached by European countries after Moscow seized Crimea in March last year.
去年3月，在莫斯科吞并克里米亚之后，欧洲国家达成了“非常脆弱而艰难的一致意见”，图斯克上个月在提到这个一致意见时说，“如今，要保持欧洲的团结是最大的挑战。”
Moscow's skill at prying open fissures in European unity has been on display in Cyprus, a tiny nation that, because of its tight historical, religious and economic ties with Russia, has taken on an oversize role as a pivotal player in the geopolitical struggle set off by the conflict in Ukraine.
莫斯科为欧洲团结制造裂痕的能力在塞浦路斯显露无疑。塞浦路斯是一个小国，由于在历史、宗教和经济上与俄罗斯关系紧密，该国作为乌克兰冲突引发的地缘政治斗争中的一个核心参与者，扮演了极其重要的角色。
Tugged in different directions by outside powers, Cyprus hosts British military bases and vast eavesdropping facilities, allows the U.S. Navy to use its ports and has been a member of the EU since 2004.
其他国家一直在把塞浦路斯往不同方向上拉扯。英国在这里设有军事基地和大量窃听设施，美国海军可以利用该国的港口，此外，塞浦路斯自2004年以来一直是欧盟成员国。
Yet it still looks to Russia as a vitally important diplomatic protector, particularly in relation to Turkey's military occupation of the north of the country, and as a crucial source of business for its financial services industry, still a pillar of the economy despite the 2013 meltdown.
然而，塞浦路斯仍然把俄罗斯视作至关重要的外交庇护者，尤其是涉及土耳其军事占领该国北部的问题时。此外，它还把俄罗斯看做金融服务行业重要的生意来源。尽管2013年出现了金融危机，金融服务行业仍然是塞浦路斯的经济支柱。
An agreement sealed during Anastasiades' visit to Moscow allows Russian warships to dock in Limassol, Cyprus' commercial hub and heavily dependent on wealthy Russians who want to set up shell companies to shuffle their assets overseas.
阿纳斯塔夏季斯访问莫斯科期间签署的协议规定，俄罗斯的军舰可以在塞浦路斯的商业中心利马索尔进港。利马索尔一直严重依赖想要通过空壳公司把财富转至海外的俄罗斯富人。
Anastasiades insisted that military accords signed in Moscow merely extended a 1996 agreement and were “nothing new.” The terms of the agreements, however, are all secret, so it is impossible to know what Russia managed to gain.
阿纳斯塔夏季斯坚称，在莫斯科签署的军事协议只是延长了一份1966年的协议，“没有什么新内容”。不过，这些协议的条款全部保密，因此，无法得知俄罗斯究竟获得了哪些利益。
Anastasiades, who traveled to Moscow after recovering from heart surgery in New York, denied tilting away from the West toward Russia. As the leader of a small country, divided since a Turkish invasion in 1974 and situated on a fault line between East and West, Anastasiades said he seeks good relations with all sides and “even with the devil.” He added, “I do not have the luxury to choose my friends.”
阿纳斯塔夏季斯是在纽约接受心脏手术之后访问莫斯科的。他否认自己在偏离西方，向俄罗斯倾斜。阿纳斯塔夏季斯说，作为一个自1974年土耳其入侵后陷入分裂、处在东西方断层线的小国领导人，他寻求与各方建立良好的关系，“哪怕对方是邪恶的”。他还表示，“我没有选择朋友的那种奢侈。”
He said Russia might also get a role in the search for and development of gas reserves off the coast of Cyprus, a venture until now monopolized by Western companies.
他说俄罗斯可能也会参与塞浦路斯近海天然气储备的寻找和开发，这项活动迄今为止一直由西方公司垄断。
Russia's ambassador to Cyprus, Stanislav Osadchi, told a Russian-language newspaper, one of several in Limassol serving the town's large Russian-speaking population, that the Anastasiades' meeting with Putin, “demonstrated that, despite attempts to isolate Russia and revive the Cold War, there are countries that do not want this.”
俄罗斯驻塞浦路斯大使斯坦尼斯拉夫·奥萨德齐(Stanislav Osadchi)对一家俄文报纸说，阿纳斯塔夏季斯与普京的会面“证明尽管有些国家企图孤立俄罗斯，重新挑起冷战，但有一些国家并不想这样。”这份报纸是利马索尔面向俄语人口的几家报纸之一。
“For lots of people on this island, Russia is seen as a savior,” Harry Tzimitras, director of PRIO Cyprus Center, a Norwegian-funded research group in Nicosia. This, he added, provides fertile ground for efforts by Moscow to “infiltrate the European Union” and “show that it can disrupt certain policies” promoted by Washington and Brussels.
“对于这个岛屿上的许多人来说，俄罗斯被视作救世主，”由挪威投资的尼科西亚研究机构奥斯陆和平研究所塞浦路斯中心(PRIO Cyprus Centre)的主任哈里·齐米特拉斯(Harry Tzimitras)说。他接着说，这为莫斯科“渗透欧盟”的努力提供了肥沃的土壤，“证明了它能够干扰”由华盛顿和布鲁塞尔倡导的“某些政策”。
Vasilis Zertalis, the head of Prospectacy, a financial service company, described Cyprus as a “small piece on a big chessboard.” Europe, he said, tried to advance its own position during the 2013 banking crisis by seeking to end Cyprus's role as a haven for Russian money.
金融服务公司Prospectacy负责人瓦西利斯·泽尔塔利斯(Vasilis Zertalis)称，塞浦路斯是“大棋盘上的小棋子。”他说，在2013年的银行业危机中，欧洲试图终结塞浦路斯作为俄罗斯财富避风港的角色，从而在此地占据更有利的位置。
“They wanted to scare the Russians away,” he said. “But the money that left was from Britain, from other European countries and from America.”
“他们想把俄罗斯人吓跑，”他说。“然而撤出的资金却来自英国、其他欧洲国家和美国。”