MOSCOW — With an eye perhaps to the coming Winter Olympics, President Vladimir V. Putin said on Thursday that Russia could soon free its most famous prisoner, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former chief executive of Yukos Oil, whose arrest and imprisonment 10 years ago signaled an authoritarian turn in the nation’s modern history.
莫斯科——也许是考虑到冬季奥运会即将开幕，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周四表示，俄罗斯可能会在不久之后释放该国最著名的囚犯、尤科斯石油公司(Yukos Oil)前首席执行官米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B.Khodorkovsky)。10年前，霍多尔科夫斯基被捕入狱，此事标志着俄罗斯现代历史上一个趋向独裁的转折。
The release of Mr. Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man and an aspiring political rival, would be an unexpected and striking reversal for Mr. Putin. For a decade now, he has shown no signs of sympathy, let alone mercy, as the authorities dismantled Mr. Khodorkovsky’s company and pursued criminal charges — even as recently as this month — that seemed designed to keep him in prison for life.
霍多尔科夫斯基曾是俄罗斯首富，也是一名雄心勃勃的政坛角逐者。如果他被释放，对普京来说可能是一个出人意料且令人震惊的逆转。10年来，俄罗斯官方拆解了霍多尔科夫斯基的公司，对他提起各种刑事指控——甚至在本月都有这种举动——似乎想让他一辈子关在监狱里。在这个过程中，普京没有表现出丝毫同情，更不用说仁慈了。
Mr. Putin, who commands singular political authority here, now appears to have the confidence to risk freeing a man who even in prison has persisted as one of his harshest political critics and who still has the will and financial resources to challenge not only the seizure of his company’s assets but Mr. Putin’s power.
如今，独揽俄罗斯政治大权的普京似乎有了冒险的信心，敢于释放这样一个人，此人即便身陷囹圄，却仍然是普京最激烈的政治批评人士，而且仍有意愿和财力挑战官方没收自己公司资产的举动，甚至挑战普京的权力。
It comes at a time when Mr. Putin has cut a large figure on the world stage, averting an American-led military strike on Syria and securing Russia’s sway over Ukraine as it was on the verge of moving closer to the European Union.
此时，普京在国际舞台上表现得比较强势，不但阻止了美国主导的对叙利亚的军事袭击，还在乌克兰即将向欧盟(European Union)靠拢的时候巩固了俄罗斯对乌克兰的影响力。
Mr. Putin spoke hours after the Russian Parliament adopted a sweeping amnesty law that could free a number of high-profile defendants whose politically charged cases symbolized what critics denounced as the repression of dissent. They include two performers from the punk protest group Pussy Riot and 30 Greenpeace activists who were detained in September after protesting oil exploration in the Arctic.
在普京发表讲话的几小时以前，俄罗斯议会刚刚采纳了一项覆盖范围广泛的赦免法，该法有可能使一些有名被告获释，这些人充满政治意味的案件体现了批判者所谴责的对异见人士的镇压。这些人当中包括朋克乐队Pussy Riot的两名成员，以及因在北极抗议石油开采而于9月被捕的30名绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)活动人士。
A court here on Thursday dropped charges against four demonstrators suspected of being involved in a confrontation with the police after Mr. Putin’s election to another term in 2012. They were the first of perhaps thousands of defendants who stand to benefit from the amnesty.
2012年，普京再度当选之后，四名抗议者涉嫌卷入了与警方的冲突。周四，莫斯科的一个法院撤销了对这四人的起诉。可望受益于赦免法的俄罗斯被告或许有数千人，他们是其中的第一批。
Mr. Putin proposed the amnesty to mark the 20th anniversary of Russia’s Constitution this month — and the Parliament dutifully obliged by passing it — but the timing also appeared intended to temper the harsh criticism of civil rights here ahead of the Winter Olympics, to be held in Sochi beginning Feb. 7.
俄罗斯宪法的20周年纪念日就在本月，普京提出赦免法是为了对此表示纪念——议会唯命是从地通过了该法——然而，他之所以选择这个时机，似乎也是为了在将于2月7日开幕的索契冬奥会之前缓和人们对俄罗斯民权状况的激烈批评。
“It’s a decision to make our criminal justice policy more humane,” Mr. Putin said on Thursday during a marathon news conference that underscored his absolute political dominance here.
“这个决定是为了让我们的刑事司法政策变得更加人性化，”周四，普京在一次漫长的新闻发布会上说。这次发布会突显了他在俄罗斯政坛的绝对权威。
He did not address the question of amnesty for Mr. Khodorkovsky during the news conference but rather in remarks he made to reporters afterward. He said that Mr. Khodorkovsky had appealed for clemency on humanitarian grounds, citing his mother’s declining health, and that a decision to grant him a pardon could come soon.
他并未在新闻发布会上提到赦免霍多尔科夫斯基的话题，但在会后对记者的讲话当中提到了此事。他说，霍多尔科夫斯基称自己母亲的健康状况日益恶化，以人道主义为由提出了赦免请求，有关方面将很快做出赦免他的决定。
“He has already spent more than 10 years in confinement — this is a serious punishment,” he said.
他说，“他已经被关了10多年——已经受到了严厉的惩罚。”
Mr. Putin added that he would consider the “humanitarian character” of Mr. Khodorkovsy’s appeal. “His mother is ill, and I think that a decision can be taken, and in the near future a decree on his clemency will be signed.”
普京还说，他将考虑霍多尔科夫斯基请求的“人道主义性质”。“他的母亲病了，我想我们可以做一个决定。不久之后，赦免他的法令就会得到签署。”
The announcement that Mr. Khodorkovsky could soon walk free surprised his lawyers and representatives, and even his mother, Marina, who said she had heard nothing of it. “He needs to be released,” she told the Interfax news agency. “His children and even his grandchildren grew up without him.”
霍多尔科夫斯基行将获释的公告让他的律师和代表颇为震惊，连他的母亲也不例外。他的母亲玛丽娜(Marina)表示，之前没有听说任何关于此事的消息。“他应该获释，”她告诉俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)。“他的孩子乃至孙辈都在他不在的期间长大了。”
A statement on Mr. Khodorkovsky’s website indicated that it was premature to discuss his release. “It cannot be commented on whether a request on a pardon was made, by whom and for what reasons,” the statement said. “All of his family and supporters would of course be elated to see him finally free after 10 years of imprisonment.”
霍多尔科夫斯基网站上的一则声明称，现在谈论他获释还为时过早。“目前还无法评论，是否存在请求赦免一事，提出请求的是谁，理由又是什么，”声明称。“当然，看到他在10年监禁后最终获释，他所有的家人和支持者都会感到非常高兴。”
Mr. Khodorkovsky, who spent his 50th birthday in June in a prison in the Karelia region near Finland, was one of the businessmen in the new Russia of the 1990s who amassed such staggering fortunes and political influence that they became known as oligarchs. A former member of the Communist Youth League, or Komsomol, Mr. Khodorkovsky seized the opportunity offered by Mikhail S. Gorbachev’s period of perestroika in the twilight of the Soviet era to open a cafe, which soon became a trading company and then a bank.
今年6月，霍多尔科夫斯基在芬兰附近卡累利阿区的一座监狱里度过了50岁生日。在20世纪90年代的俄罗斯新时期，许多商人都积聚了十分可观的财富和政治影响力，以至于被人称作寡头，霍多尔科夫斯基就是其中之一。作为前苏联共产主义青年团（Communist Youth League，或称Komsomol）的一名成员，他抓住米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S.Gorbachev)在苏联时代末期进行改革的机遇开了一家咖啡馆，这家店很快变成了一个贸易公司，后来又变成了银行。
In 1995 he acquired the failing oil company that became Yukos, and in the tumultuous, often violent Wild East atmosphere of the era, he steadily expanded the company and his wealth in deals that were widely criticized as shadowy, if not corrupt. By the time Mr. Putin became president on New Year’s Eve in 1999, Mr. Khodorkovsky had emerged as the country’s richest man and sought to commit himself to modern corporate governance and philanthropy.
1995年，霍多尔科夫斯基收购了一家破产的石油公司，开办了尤科斯石油公司。在当时那种动荡不宁、暴力频发的“狂野东部”氛围中，他稳步扩大公司，通过一些广受批评的交易积聚财富，人们认为那些交易即便不是腐败，至少也有不正当的嫌疑。等到普京于1999年新年前夕就任俄罗斯总统的时候，霍多尔科夫斯基已经成为该国最富有的人，试图专注于现代公司管理及慈善事业。
Although spared Mr. Putin’s early prosecutorial assaults on oligarchs such as Vladimir A. Gusinsky and Boris A. Berezovksy, Mr. Khodorkovsky’s corporate and political ambitions soon clashed with Mr. Putin’s own consolidation of control. Although there are many theories behind Mr. Khodorkovsky’s arrest, most focus on his contributions to political parties before the 2003 parliamentary elections and Mr. Putin’s desire to bring natural resources back into the state’s hands.
虽然避过了普京早期对弗拉基米尔·A·古辛斯基(Vladimir A. Gusinsky)、鲍里斯·A·别列佐夫斯基(Boris A. Berezovsky) 等寡头的起诉行动，霍多尔科夫斯基的商业及政治野心却很快与普京巩固控制权的措施产生了冲突。关于霍多尔科夫斯基被捕原因的说法多种多样，其中大部分却都认为，原因在于他曾在2003年议会选举前向一些政党捐款，而普京又希望将自然资源收归国有。
Mr. Khodorkovsky’s first and second trial on charges of embezzlement and tax invasion, as well as the absorption of Yukos’s assets into the state oil company, Rosneft, were widely condemned as a vendetta by Mr. Putin against a rival in business and politics. After a second conviction in 2010, Mr. Khodorkovsky and his business partner, Platon A. Lebedev, were declared prisoners of conscience by Amnesty International.
霍多尔科夫斯基被控贪污、逃税的第一和第二次审判，以及将尤科斯公司的资产纳入到国有的俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)的行为，都受到了广泛谴责，人们认为这是普京对商业及政治对手的报复。在他于2010年第二次被定罪后，国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)将霍多尔科夫斯基和他的合作伙伴普拉东·A·列别杰夫(Platon A. Lebedev)宣布为良心犯。
Even with the end of their prison terms approaching in 2014, prosecutors said the two could face yet another trial that would keep them behind bars. Mr. Putin, when asked about that possibility during the news conference, discounted it. He said he did not see “special prospects” in the investigation but added that he did not know where the case stood — an assertion of noninterference in judicial matters that his critics dismissed as incredible.
他们的刑期将于2014年结束，但检方表示，两人可能会面临另一次审判，因此有可能继续遭受监禁。在新闻发布会期间，被问到二人再次面临审判的可能性的时候，普京一口否认。他表示自己没有在相关调查中看到“特别的可能性”，同时也表示他并不清楚案件的进展——他以此表明自己不干涉司法事务，批评普京的人士则认为这令人难以置信。
Mr. Putin’s news conference — an annual ritual — lasted more than four hours and displayed a confidence, even buoyancy, that contrasted with last year’s when he was challenged with pointed questions about his return to the presidency and harsh policies such as a ban on the adoption of Russian orphans by American families. A year ago he also seemed tense and in pain from a lingering back injury.
此次普京新闻发布会——一项一年一度的仪式——持续了四个多小时。普京表现得非常自信，甚至有些飘飘然，与去年形成了鲜明对比，那时他遭遇了一些尖锐的提问，有关他重回总统宝座的举动，以及他施行的一些苛刻政策，比如禁止美国家庭收养俄罗斯孤儿的禁令。此外，一年之前，受背伤困扰的普京看起来又紧张又痛苦。
In the last year, Mr. Putin has largely neutered the political opposition and pursued a conservative political course. On Thursday, he was in high spirits and eager to banter with hundreds of reporters gathered in an auditorium of the World Trade Center. He arrived to the sound of triumphant music that seemed more suited for the opening of an action movie, and throughout the performance he showed little sign of the annoyance that can percolate when questioned.
过去一年，普京已经基本上消除了政治反对势力，并致力于推行保守的政治路线。周四，普京兴致勃勃，急于与数百名聚集在世界贸易中心(World Trade Center)礼堂的记者开玩笑。他在凯歌式的音乐声中步入会场，这种音乐似乎更适合动作电影的开场音乐。新闻发布会期间，丝毫看不出普京有厌烦的迹象。以前面临提问时，他有时会流露这种情绪。
He spoke with evident satisfaction about his decision to rescue Ukraine with $15 billion in loans and a sharp discount on natural gas, saying Russia was obliged to help its brotherly neighbor. The bailout left European officials stunned and scrambling for a response.
对于向乌克兰提供150亿美元（约合910亿元人民币）贷款及价格十分优惠的天然气的决定，普京显然非常满意，他表示俄罗斯有义务帮助兄弟邻国。该救援计划让欧洲官员感到震惊，正在手忙脚乱地设法回应。
In recent months, Mr. Putin has sought to establish Russia as a dominant force to counterbalance the West, particularly the United States. On the decision to grant temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former contractor for the National Security Agency, he even teased that he was jealous of President Obama’s authority over sweeping intelligence programs.
最近几个月，普京设法恢复俄罗斯的地位，使之成为与西方国家，特别是美国抗衡的主导力量。对于批准前美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J.Snowden)临时避难请求的决定，普京甚至戏称，他羡慕奥巴马总统，因为后者有权实施规模庞大的情报项目。
“I envy him,” he said, “because he can do all this, and he is not going to be punished for it.” He also offered an off-color aside. “Well, espionage is one of the oldest professions, along with some other professions that I will not elaborate about.”
“我羡慕他，”普京说，“因为他可以这样做，而且不会因此受到惩罚。”普京还说了一些不同寻常的题外话。他说，“间谍是最古老的职业之一，与其他一些职业一样，我不会详细说明这些职业是什么。”
In just over a month, Mr. Putin will play host to the Olympics in Sochi, and while Russia has portrayed it as an opportunity to showcase the country’s restoration, Mr. Putin’s leadership has faced fierce criticism for its human rights record, including a law banning propaganda on nontraditional relationships that is widely viewed in the West as an effort to suppress homosexuality.
一个多月之后，普京将在索契奥运会上担任东道主。俄罗斯称这是展示该国复兴成果的机会，普京的执政表现却因为人权纪录受到了猛烈批评，比如禁止宣传非传统婚恋关系的法律，西方国家普遍认为这是压制同性恋的举措。
In response to a question about what seems to be a clash of cultures between Russia and the West, Mr. Putin said that Russia was merely defending its values and traditions, and he suggested that the West was trying to impose its views on others.
在回答有关俄罗斯及西方国家文化冲突的问题时，普京表示，俄罗斯只是在捍卫自己的价值观和传统。他还说，西方国家试图将自己的观点强加于人。
“It is not about criticizing somebody,” Mr. Putin said. “It is about protecting us from aggressive behavior on the part of some social groups, which I believe do not just live in a way they like, but they try to aggressively impose their opinion on other people and other countries.”
“这不是在批评谁，”普京说。“只是在保护俄罗斯人远离一些社会群体的挑衅行为，依我看，它们不只是按照自己喜欢的方式生活，还想将自己的观点强加给其他人和其他国家。”