MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin said on Tuesday that a temporary cease-fire declared by separatists in eastern Ukraine should be extended, just hours after he called on the upper house of Russia’s Parliament to rescind a March resolution authorizing the use of his country’s armed forces in Ukraine.
莫斯科——周二，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)要求俄罗斯议会上议院撤销今年3月通过的批准俄部队在乌克兰开展行动的决议。几小时后，普京表示，乌克兰东部地区分离主义者宣布的临时停火协议应该延长。
Both moves came as the United States and some European leaders warned that Russia faced a third, stiffer round of economic sanctions, specifically targeting sectors like banking and high technology, if it did not do more to end the Ukraine crisis. European leaders are due to discuss the sanctions during a summit in Brussels on Friday.
普京采取上述举措时，美国及欧洲领导人警告称，如果俄罗斯不采取更多举措，结束乌克兰危机，俄罗斯将面临第三轮更为严厉的经济制裁举措，特别是针对银行业及高科技等领域的制裁。
In eastern Ukraine, the unexpected cease-fire announced by pro-Russian separatists on Monday night proved shaky, with a spokesman for the Ukrainian armed forces accusing the rebels of shooting down a military helicopter with nine people aboard.
在乌克兰东部，亲俄罗斯的分离主义者于周一晚间出人预料地宣布停火，结果证明，他们对停火协议的态度摇摆不定，乌克兰武装部队的一名发言人指责反叛分子击落了一架载有九人的军用直升机。
The Mi-8 helicopter was carrying equipment and specialists to monitor the cease-fire near the rebel-held city of Slovyansk, which has been the epicenter of the conflict, when it was struck by a missile fired from a man-portable air defense system, said Vladislav Seleznyov, the spokesman, in a statement posted online. He said all aboard were believed to have been killed.
发言人弗拉迪斯拉夫·谢列兹尼奥夫(Vladislav Seleznyov)在网上发表声明称，这架载着设备和专家的米-8直升机在前往由叛军掌控的斯洛夫扬斯克市附近监督停火的途中，被单兵便携式防空系统发射的导弹击中。斯洛夫扬斯克是这场冲突的中心。谢列兹尼奥夫称，机上人员据信已全部遇难。
The attack on the helicopter took place in the hills in the town of Karachun on the outskirts of Slovyansk, Mr. Seleznyov said.
谢列兹尼奥夫表示，直升机飞到斯洛夫扬斯克郊区卡拉春镇的山脉上空时遭到攻击。
The rebel outfit defending Slovyansk, the scene of the heaviest fighting in the two-month conflict, is run by a shadowy military commander named Igor Strelkov who was not present at negotiations on the cease-fire in the eastern city of Donetsk on Monday evening. But an aide to the prime minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic said in an interview that Mr. Strelkov was aware of the temporary truce.
指挥反叛组织保卫斯洛夫扬斯克的是一个名为伊戈尔·斯特雷科夫(Igor Strelkov)的神秘指挥官，他没有参加周一晚间在东部城市顿涅茨克举行的停火协议谈判。但自行宣布成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的总理助手接受采访时表示，斯特雷科夫知道目前处于临时停火阶段。
Maintaining a truce could prove tough. There is minimal trust between the government in Kiev, the capital, and the patchwork of militias and rebellious political organizations that have laid siege to eastern Ukraine.
维持停火可能会非常困难。基辅政府与民兵组织及反叛的政治组织之间没有多少信任可言，后者已经包围了乌克兰东部地区。
Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Seleznyov said in an interview that rebels had continued using mortars to attack several government checkpoints near Slovyansk. He said there had been isolated fighting near the border between Russia and Ukraine as well, with some injuries.
周二早些时候，谢列兹尼奥夫接受采访时表示，叛乱分子继续利用迫击炮攻击斯洛夫扬斯克附近的几个检查站。他表示，俄罗斯与乌克兰边境附近也发生了交火。
Speaking in Vienna, Mr. Putin said a weeklong cease-fire announced by President Petro O. Poroshenko on Friday and accepted by the separatists, who want increased autonomy for the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, was insufficient. He said he had told Ukraine, “To declare a cease-fire is not enough; it is necessary to start substantive talks on the nature of the problem.”
普京在维也纳表示，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)周五宣布停火一周，希望东部地区顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克拥有更多自主权的分离主义者也已接受这一提议，但这还不够。他表示，他已经告诉乌克兰，“宣布停火还不够，必须开始就问题的本质开展实质性会谈。”
Mr. Putin said declaring a cease-fire and asking the rebels to disarm without addressing their long-term political grievances would yield nothing.
普京说，单单宣布停火和要求反对派解除武装，却不去化解他们长期积下的政治怨气，到头来只会一事无成。
“If we see there are substantive talks, so that people in eastern Ukraine can finally understand how their legal interests will be guaranteed, then there is a high possibility of success,” Mr. Putin said at a news conference.
普京在新闻发布会上表示，“假使我们能见到实质性的谈判，从而让乌克兰东部民众最终了解到他们的法律利益如何能得到保障，那么成功的机会还是很大的。”
Mr. Putin said he was “pleased” by the first contacts on Monday between the Kiev authorities and the rebel representatives of Donetsk and Luhansk. “No big agreements were reached, but the fact that the dialogue has begun is a highly important moment,” he said.
普京说，他对乌克兰当局和顿涅茨克州及卢甘斯克州的反对派代表在周一进行了第一次接触感到高兴。他说，“他们没有达成什么重大的协议，不过，对话已经开启，这一点是极为关键的。”
The Russian president listed some of his standard complaints about Ukraine, including that it had not done enough to disarm a rabidly anti-Russian group called Right Sector. Without that, Mr. Putin said, it did not make sense to call on the militias in the east to disarm.
俄罗斯总统对乌克兰提出了一些惯有的指责，包括乌克兰并未力所能及地解除名为“正义部”(Right Sector)的极端反俄组织的武装。普京说，如果乌方连这点都做不到，就让俄罗斯呼吁乌东部民兵解除武装，那是毫无道理的。
Mr. Putin was in Vienna to help push for a new, southern route for Russian gas exports in the face of European opposition. Russia is seeking alternative routes for its troubled exports via Ukraine, with the Ukrainian portion of the exports again shut down over pricing and political disputes.
普京现身维也纳，是为了出力推动俄罗斯天然气出口的一条南部新线路，该线路正遭到欧洲的反对。俄罗斯正在设法为途径乌克兰的天然气出口线路寻找替代路径，前一条线路现在麻烦不断，原因是乌克兰境内的管线再次因定价和政治冲突而遭到关闭。
The energy giant Gazprom, owned 50 percent by the Russian government, signed a deal on Tuesday with OMV, an Austrian oil and gas company, for a joint construction project for the Austrian segment of the southern pipeline known as the Southern Stream.
能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司（Gazprom，简称俄气公司）于周二和奥地利石油天然气公司OMV签订了一桩项目协议，内容是由双方共同铺设名为“南流”(Southern Stream)的输气线路的奥地利段。
The European Union has expressed opposition to future construction because Gazprom has balked at European laws that allow for open access to the infrastructure.
欧盟(European Union)已对来日的建设提出了反对，因为俄气公司没有遵守欧洲对基础设施开放使用的相关法规。
Mr. Putin accused the United States of trying to wreck the market for Russian gas in order to export more American gas, and said Russian gas was more competitively priced.
普京指责美国为了出口更多的天然气，正试图破坏俄罗斯的天然气市场，他还说，俄方的天然气定价更有竞争力。
Before Mr. Putin left for Vienna, his spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, issued a statement saying that Mr. Putin had sent a formal request to the Federation Council, the upper house of Russia’s Parliament, to rescind what was tantamount to an endorsement to invade Ukraine passed on March 1. Russia used its military that month to annex Crimea, at the time a Ukrainian region, and there has been tension over a possible similar move in the troubled southeastern region of Ukraine for months.
在普京离开维也纳之前，他的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科(Dmitri S. Peskov)发表了一则声明，称普京已向俄罗斯议会上院联邦委员会(Federation Council)提出正式请求，要求取消该委员会在3月1日通过的一份等同于批准俄方入侵乌克兰的授权。今年3月，俄罗斯用武力吞并了当时依然是乌克兰领土的克里米亚，关于俄方可能会对乱象丛生的乌克兰东南部地区采取相似行动的猜测，引发了长达数月的紧张局势。