MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has publicly indicated for the first time that the planning to reclaim Crimea from Ukraine started weeks before the Crimean referendum on the issue, which he had cited repeatedly as the main reason for Russia’s annexation.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)首次公开表示，从乌克兰收回克里米亚的计划，在克里米亚人对此事举行公投的几周之前就已经开始了。而普京此前曾反复强调，这次公投才是俄罗斯吞并克里米亚的主要原因。
Mr. Putin said he made the decision around 7 a.m. on Feb. 23, 2014, after an all-night emergency meeting with his security chiefs on the crisis in Ukraine. Viktor F. Yanukovych had just been deposed as president of Ukraine, and the meeting was called to discuss his rescue, Mr. Putin said.
普京说，他是在2014年2月23日早上7点左右做出这个决定的，当时，他与乌克兰危机的安全负责人刚刚举行了持续一夜的紧急会议。普京说，乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)那时刚刚被推翻，举行那次会议是为了讨论如何挽救他。
Russia has long contended that it acted spontaneously to reclaim Crimea, mainly to protect Russian speakers who it said had been threatened, and to stave off what it suspected was an attempt by NATO to colonize the Black Sea.
俄罗斯长期以来一直声称，吞并克里米亚的行动并无预谋，主要是为了保护受到威胁的讲俄语的民众，以及遏制北约占据黑海的企图。
Mr. Putin in particular has emphasized the role of the March 16 referendum in which an overwhelming majority of Crimeans voted to rejoin Russia.
普京还特别强调过3月16日的公投所扮演的角色，在那次公投中，绝大多数的克里米亚人支持重新加入俄罗斯。
But in a clip aired late Sunday from a new documentary called “Homeward Bound,” produced by state-run Channel One television, Mr. Putin put a different emphasis on events.
但在新纪录片《回归》(Homeward Bound)于周日晚间播放的的片段中，普京讲述上述事件时却突出了不同的重点。该纪录片是政府运营的第一频道(Channel One)制作的。
”I invited the leaders of our special services and the Defense Ministry to the Kremlin and gave them the task of saving the life of the Ukrainian president, who simply would have been liquidated,” he said in an interview for the documentary, speaking about the night of Feb. 22.
“我邀请特务机关和国防部的负责人到克里姆林宫，让他们拯救乌克兰总统的性命，他当时可能会被搞掉，”他在这部纪录片中接受采访时说。他说这番话的时间大约是2月22日夜里。
Mr. Yanukovych had fled Kiev for southeastern Ukraine, and eventually made his way to Russia.
亚努科维奇当时已经离开基辅，前往乌克兰东南部。最终他抵达了俄罗斯。
”We finished about seven in the morning. When we were parting, I told all my colleagues, ‘We are obliged to begin working to bring Crimea back into Russia,’” Mr. Putin said.
“我们早上七点左右才结束会议。散会时，我告诉所有同事，‘我们必须开始着手让克里米亚回归俄罗斯，’”普京说。
That one sentence appears to indicate that Mr. Putin made the decision long more than three weeks before the referendum, but the clip from the documentary does not show any more of the interview. Channel One did not specify when the full documentary would be broadcast.
这句话似乎意味着普京在公投的三周前就做出了这个决定，但这个纪录片的片段中没有展示采访的其他内容。第一频道没有公布将于何时播出整部纪录片。
Within days, unidentified soldiers began to overrun Crimea, raising the Russian flag over captured government buildings and expelling the Ukrainian military.
几天之后，身份不明的士兵就开始涌入克里米亚，在被占领的政府大楼上升起俄罗斯国旗，驱赶乌克兰军队。
At the time Mr. Putin denied Russia was involved, but later he admitted that the troops were in fact Russian special forces.
普京当时否认与俄罗斯有关，但后来承认，那些部队实际上就是俄罗斯的特种部队。
The annexation proved wildly popular in Russia, and has helped to keep Mr. Putin’s approval rating well above 80 percent for the year. His revelation about his decision comes as the first anniversary approaches.
事实证明，吞并一事在俄罗斯国内大受欢迎，并帮助让普京的支持率全年保持在远高于80%的水平上。他透露决策情况之时，吞并克里米亚一周年的纪念日即将到来。
In remarks broadcast last year, Mr. Putin said the final decision was based on “public sentiment.” He said the government first conducted secret opinion polls, which showed 80 percent of Crimea’s population supported the annexation, and then the referendum results were even stronger.
在去年播出的言论中，普京曾称最终的决定是基于“公众的情绪”。他说政府先进行了秘密民调，结果显示80%的克里米亚居民支持吞并，后来公投结果中的支持者比例甚至更高。
Speaking elsewhere last year on a national call-in show, Mr. Putin said that he had delayed a decision to include Crimea in Russia’s fold while awaiting the referendum results. “It was very important for me to know what their will was,” he said, adding later, “I have already mentioned that the final decision to return Crimea to the Russian Federation was only based on the results of the referendum.”
去年在另一个场合，普京还在一档全国性的热线问答节目中称，他在等待公投结果期间，已经推迟了把克里米亚纳入俄罗斯保护下的决定。他说，“对我来说，知道他们的意愿很重要。”之后他又补充道，“我已经说过，让克里米亚回归俄罗斯联邦的最终决定，唯一的依据是公投的结果。”
Russia officially annexed Crimea on March 21, 2014.
2014年3月21日，俄罗斯正式吞并克里米亚。
The Russian role in annexing Crimea without negotiations with Ukraine, as well as in aiding the separatists fighting for autonomy in the southeast, has led to the worst crisis in relations between Russia and the West since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.
俄罗斯不与乌克兰谈判就吞并克里米亚，还帮助乌克兰东南部的分裂分子为自治而开战。俄罗斯的这些角色导致它与西方的关系，出现了自1991年苏联解体以来最严重的危机。
Europe and the United States, angered that the post-World War II order of not changing borders by force had been violated, imposed repeated rounds of economic sanctions.
令欧洲和美国愤怒的是，二战后不通过武力来改变边界现状的秩序被打破了。它们对俄罗斯实施了多轮经济制裁。