MOSCOW — Against a backdrop of rising tensions between Turkey and the West, Presidents Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey pledged on Tuesday to repair relations after nine months of open antagonism.
莫斯科——周二，在土耳其与西方紧张关系日渐升级的背景下，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)和土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)承诺修复两国关系。在此前的九个月里，两国毫不掩饰对对方的敌意。
Although the meeting in St. Petersburg on Tuesday produced little beyond vows of friendship and cooperation, the symbolism of the two former antagonists coming together for a friendly talk had to be enough to raise alarms in Western capitals. Besides being a member of the NATO alliance, Turkey is vital to Europe’s efforts to stanch the flow of refugees from Syria and Afghanistan.
除了保持友好和进行合作的承诺外，周二在圣彼得堡召开的会议几乎没有取得什么成果。但曾是对手的两国可以在一起举行友好会谈，其象征意义足以引起西方各国的警惕。除了是北约(NATO)成员外，土耳其对欧洲遏止叙利亚和阿富汗难民流入而展开的诸多行动至关重要。
For Putin, who has made little secret of his ambitions to weaken NATO and crack European unity, the opportunity to forge a new and closer relationship with a humbled Erdogan was probably deeply satisfying, and a vindication of his decision to intervene militarily in Syria.
普京对自己削弱北约和破坏欧洲团结的意图毫不掩饰。对他来说，与收敛了许多的埃尔多安建立一种更亲密的新关系的机会，将是件大有成就感的事，并证明他决定对叙利亚进行军事干预的正确性。
No one predicted a radical shift in relations, at least not an immediate one. Russia and Turkey have been on opposite sides of the Syrian conflict, and the two leaders had been at each other’s throats since November, when Turkey shot down a Russian warplane that it said had briefly violated its airspace on the Syrian border, with one pilot killed by ground fire after ejecting.
没人预言两国关系会发生根本性的转变，至少不会立即改变。在叙利亚冲突的问题上，俄罗斯和土耳其一直站在对立面。去年11月，土耳其以俄罗斯一架战斗机短暂地侵犯其领空为由，在叙利亚边境将其击落，造成一名飞行员在弹出飞机后被地面火力射杀。自那以后，两位领导人一直激烈地指责对方。
However, efforts to restore ties accelerated after the July 15 coup attempt in Turkey, after which Putin was the first leader to call to offer support. “It was very important from a mental perspective, this kind of psychological support,” Erdogan said at the news conference.
然而，7月15日土耳其发生未遂政变后，双方恢复关系的行动加快。事件发生后，普京是第一个打电话表示愿意提供支持的领导人。“从心理上来说，这种及时的支持非常重要，”埃尔多安在新闻发布会上说。
Any future agreements between the two countries could have significant repercussions for the Middle East and Europe. Erdogan most likely hopes to use the leverage of better relations with Russia to force a better deal with Europe over the migrant crisis.
两国将来达成的任何协议都可能会对中东和欧洲产生重要影响。埃尔多安极有可能希望把得到改善的土俄关系作为筹码，迫使欧洲在移民危机上达成对其更有利的协议。
“Both countries are committed and determined to returning our relationship to its pre-crisis level,” Erdogan said at the news conference.
“两国承诺并决心让我们的关系回到危机前的水平，”埃尔多安在新闻发布会上说。
Russia agreed to lift sanctions that had barred some agricultural imports and had stopped the flow of millions of Russian tourists.
俄罗斯同意取消制裁。相关制裁禁止从土耳其进口部分农产品，并且不允许俄罗斯人前往土耳其旅游。