MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin said on Thursday that Russia had endured a “difficult year,” but he pledged that the country would pursue its independent foreign policy and economic objectives despite dogged Western efforts to weaken it.
莫斯科——弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统周四表示，俄罗斯经历了“艰难的一年”，但他承诺俄罗斯会奉行独立的外交政策和经济目标，尽管西方在不断采取措施来削弱该国。
Mr. Putin used his annual state of the nation speech both to reaffirm the Kremlin’s intention to restore Russia’s great power status and to reassure the Russian people that he was addressing troubling economic developments.
普京利用发表年度国情咨文的机会，一方面重申了克里姆林宫希望恢复俄罗斯大国地位的愿景，另一方面向俄罗斯民众保证，他正在应对棘手的经济发展问题。
On a dais in a vast white marble hall at the Kremlin filled with the country’s political elite, Mr. Putin called Crimea the country’s Temple Mount and said that its annexation from Ukraine in March confirmed that Moscow could protect Russian people everywhere.
克里姆林宫的一间白色大理石大厅中坐满了俄罗斯政界高层，站在讲台上的普京称克里米亚是俄罗斯的“圣殿山”，并表示今年3月使克里米亚脱离乌克兰与俄罗斯合并一事证实，莫斯科能够保护世界各地的俄罗斯人。
Before the speech, there had been widespread speculation in Russia on whether Mr. Putin would favor conservatives who want to pursue a confrontation with the West despite the economic costs or liberals who think that attitude brought disaster to the Soviet Union.
在发表演讲前，俄罗斯各界纷纷猜测，普京究竟会支持保守派还是自由派。前者希望与西方国家展开对抗，不惜付出经济代价，后者则认为正是这种态度给苏联带去了灾难。
Mr. Putin did a little of both, taking a defiant stand on foreign policy but vowing to put in place policies that would help small and medium businesses. Most liberals believe that unshackling the private sector is the key to solving Russia’s economic problems, given that the state controls 55 percent of the economy.
普京选择两者兼顾。他在外交上采取了强硬姿态，但同时誓言要落实扶持中小型企业的政策。大多数自由派认为，鉴于国家控制了经济的55%，开放私营领域是解决俄罗斯经济问题的关键。
The Russian leader used the same aggrieved, angry tone he has often adopted in his public pronouncements since the Ukrainian crisis erupted in March. The West has reacted to the annexation of Crimea and the conflict in Ukraine by imposing sanctions, but Mr. Putin said those events were just a pretext.
自乌克兰危机于今年3月爆发以来，普京经常以忿恨的口吻发表公开声明，这次也不列外。为了回应俄罗斯吞并克里米亚的行为及乌克兰危机，西方国家对其施加了制裁，但普京表示这些事件不过是个借口。
“This is not just a nervous reaction of the United States and its allies to our position with regards to events and the coup in Ukraine,” he said near the beginning of his 70-minute speech.
普京的演讲长达70分钟，刚开始讲话没多久就说道，“制裁并非是美国及其盟友对我们在这些事件及乌克兰政变问题上的立场所做的一种简单的不安反应。”
“If all that had not happened, they would have come up with a different mode to restrain Russia,” Mr. Putin said, accusing the West of pursing the same policy for “decades if not centuries.” Whenever the West feels that Russia is becoming too strong, it resorts to such measures, he added.
“就算没有这些事情，他们也会想出别的花样来遏制俄罗斯，”普京说。他指责西方国家在“不说几百年，也有几十年”的时间里一直奉行同样的政策。他还表示，当西方觉得俄罗斯变得过于强大时，就会诉诸此类举动。
Mr. Putin again dismissed the idea that the popular uprising in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine, was sufficient to topple a president close to the Kremlin. He accused Washington of manipulating events there, saying that when it came to negotiations about solving the crisis, he was never sure whether he should address Ukrainians or the United States.
有一种观点认为，乌克兰首都基辅的民众反抗活动提供了足够的理由来推翻与克里姆林宫关系密切的总统。普京对此予以了驳斥，指责华盛顿操控了那里的种种事件，并称，在关于解决危机的谈判中，他从头到尾都不敢肯定应该与乌克兰还是美国谈判。
He sprinkled the speech with numerous references to his standard line that Russia would remain the global standard-bearer for conservative values.
他在演讲中多次提到自己的标准说辞：俄罗斯将继续担当保守派价值观的国际先驱。
But he also said that Russia did not want to restore the Iron Curtain, that the country was open to the world and that it would never “pursue paranoia, suspicion and looking for enemies.” This will come as a surprise to some, especially employees of nongovernmental organizations who have been labeled “foreign agents” over the past years and whose groups were shuttered or pursued to pay huge new tax bills.
不过，他也表示，俄罗斯不希望重新设置铁幕，它是一个对世界开放的国家，决不会“多疑与猜忌，或是刻意树敌”。对一些人而言，这种说法颇为意外，尤其是那些非政府组织的工作人员。过去几年，他们被贴上了“境外势力代言人”的标签，机构要么被迫关闭，要么被追讨巨额的新增税款。
The initial part of the speech focused on foreign policy issues, with Mr. Putin still riding a popular wave of support for the annexation of Crimea.
讲话的开头部分集中在外交政策领域。普京仍然享有吞并克里米亚一事带来的高支持率。
Mr. Putin made a passing reference to clashes overnight in Grozny, the Chechen capital. Russia was capable of facing the threat from such terrorism, he said.
普京简略提到了车臣首府格罗兹尼头天夜里发生的冲突。他说，俄罗斯有能力面对这种恐怖主义行径的威胁。
But the bulk of the speech focused on the economy.
不过，演讲的大部分内容都与经济有关。
After 15 years of prosperity under Mr. Putin, Russians are increasingly worried that their living standards will suffer as tumbling oil prices compound the problems brought by Western sanctions imposed in response to Russia destabilizing Ukraine.
在普京的领导下，俄罗斯经历了15年的繁荣。然而，俄罗斯人越来越担心，油价的暴跌会加剧西方制裁所带来的问题，从而降低他们的生活水平。为了回应俄罗斯对乌克兰局势造成的动荡，西方对其实施了多种制裁。
Mr. Putin said that his country should use the current confrontation with the West to try to overhaul its economy, and to depend more on itself for food, medicine and technology. Just as Russia once broke boundaries in space and atomic energy, he said, it should also become a leader in creating goods the world wants.
普京表示，俄罗斯应该利用目前与西方对抗的时机，进行经济的全面改革，在粮食、药物和科技方面实现更大程度的自给自足。他说，正如俄罗斯曾经突破空间和原子能领域的藩篱那样，它也应该在创造世界需要的商品方面成为带头者。
His economic proposals included a no-questions-asked policy toward anyone who brought home their offshore wealth, a reprieve from government inspections for small and medium businesses, and a four-year freeze in the tax rate.
他的经济提议包括：不对那些把海外财富带回国的人进行盘问、暂停政府对中小企业的稽查，以及维持税率四年不变。