MOSCOW — President Vladimir Putin of Russia told a European official that he could “take Kiev in two weeks” if he wanted to, adding a new dimension to the tensions building in Ukraine as Russian forces become more involved in the fighting there.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)对一位欧盟官员说，只要他愿意，就可以“两周内拿下基辅”。随着俄罗斯武装力量更多地参与到乌克兰的战斗中，这番话给日渐紧张的局势增加了一个新的维度。
As NATO leaders gathered in Wales for a summit meeting, Putin's remarks and the increasing presence of Russian military units in Ukraine have posed a stark new challenge to the alliance about how to respond to Moscow's apparent willingness to exert military force to achieve its foreign policy goals.
在北约(NATO)领导人云集威尔士首脑会议之际，普京的言论，以及俄罗斯在乌克兰军事存在的增强，向这个联盟发起了严峻的挑战：面对一个显然不惜动用武力来达到外交目标的莫斯科，他们应该作何反应？
The Kremlin did not deny the remark, which was published in the Italian newspaper La Repubblica on Monday, but Tuesday it denounced the European official, José Manuel Barroso, for leaking details of what Putin understood to be a private telephone call.
克里姆林宫在周一没有否认刊登于意大利报纸《共和报》(La Repubblica)的这一言论，但是在周二谴责了欧盟官员若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)，称他泄露了在普京看来属私人性质的通话的细节。
“Whether these words were said or not, in my viewpoint, the quote given is taken out of context, and it had an absolutely different meaning,” said Yuri Ushakov, a Kremlin aide, according to the Interfax news service.
据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，克里姆林宫幕僚尤里·乌沙科夫(Yuri Ushakov)说，“在我看来，不管是否真的说过，这段引语都是脱离语境的，产生了截然不同的含义。”
It was the first Kremlin response to the article, in which Barroso, the president of the European Commission, relayed Putin's response to his question of whether Russian troops had crossed into eastern Ukraine.
这是克里姆林宫首次对这篇报道做出回应。在文章中，作为欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席的巴罗佐转述了普京对他的问题做出的回答。他问普京，俄罗斯军队是否越境进入了乌克兰东部。
“That is not the question,” Barroso said Putin told him. “But if I wanted to, I could take Kiev in two weeks.”
“那不是问题所在，”巴罗佐说普京当时回答。“但是只要我想，我可以两周拿下基辅。”
On Tuesday evening, Vladimir Chizhov, the Russian envoy to the European Union, said that Russia had both an audio recording and a written record of the conversation, and he issued Barroso a two-day ultimatum about their release to “dispel any misunderstandings.”
周二晚间，俄罗斯驻欧盟特使弗拉基米尔·奇若夫(Vladimir Chizhov)表示俄罗斯有那次通话的录音和书面记录，他限巴罗佐两天内“消除一切误解”，否则就会公布记录。
The war of words has expanded across Europe in advance of the NATO summit meeting Thursday and Friday, when the alliance's leaders are expected to endorse a rapid-reaction force of 4,000 troops for Eastern Europe.
在周四和周五的北约峰会前夕，此番言语之争已经蔓延至全欧洲。北约首脑在峰会上可能会支持组建一支4000人的东欧快速反应部队。
That prompted a senior Russian military official to announce that the country would revise its military doctrine to account for “changing military dangers and military threats,” including, he said, NATO expansion.
这个消息促使一名俄罗斯军方高级将领宣布，为适应“军事危险和军事威胁方面的不断变化”，包括他所说的北约扩张，俄罗斯将修改其军事准则。