BEIJING — The two dead goats in a farm building in northeast China each had a hole in its head the size of a human finger. Their skulls had been crushed. Three other goats were missing.
北京——在中国东北部的一处养殖点，两只死羊的头部均有一个手指般粗细的洞口，头骨已经碎裂。还有三只山羊失踪。
There was only one animal in the vicinity known to possess such powerful jaws: Ustin, a Siberian tiger released last June by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in the country’s far east.
附近区域里，人们知道仅有一只动物能有这么大的杀伤力：俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)今年6月在远东地区放归自然的西伯利亚虎“乌斯京”(Ustin)。
Chinese officials said this month that Ustin had crossed into frigid northeastern China, following in the footsteps of Kuzya, one in a group of three tigers released in May by Mr. Putin, who is known to be both an animal lover and a prolific hunter.
中国官员本月表示，乌斯京已追随“库兹亚”(Kuzya)的步伐，穿越边界线进入中国寒冷的东北地区。普京同时拥有热爱动物与打猎老手的名声，而库兹亚是他今年5月放归自然的三只老虎之一。
Though Russia has been widely criticized by other countries this year for hostile cross-border incursions to its west, it is the violent actions of Ustin in the east that appear to have taken Chinese farmers by surprise.
尽管俄罗斯今年因在西面进行的恶意越境侵犯之举遭到他国的广泛批评，但乌斯京在东面的攻击行为似乎才是出乎中国养殖者意料的事情。
“Our monitoring data and this attack all tell that Ustin is in good physical condition, and has a large range of activities on Heixiazi Island,” Zhu Shibing, a wildlife protection expert from the Northeast Forestry University, said in a report on the goat attacks on Tuesday by Xinhua, the state news agency.
根据官方媒体新华网周二对山羊遇袭一事的报道，东北林业大学的野生动物保护专家朱世兵表示，“这几天的连续监测发现，乌斯京在黑瞎子岛的活动范围非常大……说明它的身体状况很好。”
With the help of tracking devices worn by the tigers, Russian and Chinese officials have been following the two animals, which swam across the Amur River into China.
在老虎身上携带的追踪装置的帮助下，中俄两国的官员一直在监测游过了界河黑龙江的这两只老虎的行踪。
Mr. Zhu said villagers should not try to get too close to Ustin or throw food to him if they spot him.
朱世兵警告村民，如果发现了乌斯京，不要试图接近它，或是向它投掷食物。
Experts have been able to pinpoint Ustin as the main suspect in the goat killings because of footprints and other traces left near the goat house, he said.
他表示，根据养殖点附近留下的一串串足迹等线索，专家可以判定，导致山羊遇袭的主要怀疑对象是乌斯京。
The attacks took place Sunday night at a farm on Heixiazi Island of Fuyuan County in Heilongjiang Province, south of Siberia, Xinhua reported. The news agency said that its own correspondents had seen the dead goats.
新华的报道称，事情发生在周日晚间，地点为西伯利亚以南黑龙江省抚远县黑瞎子岛的一处养殖点。文中表示，新华的记者看到了死羊。
The news of a feline intrusion onto Chinese soil first came in October, after Russian officials notified the Chinese that 23-month-old Kuzya had crossed the Amur at a point 300 miles from where Mr. Putin had released him. Hong Lei, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, said in a statement that the Chinese would “make joint efforts with the Russian side to carry out protection of wild Siberian tigers which travel back and forth between China and Russia.”
老虎越境进入中国领土的报道最早出现在今年10月。当时，俄罗斯官员知会中方，23个月大的库兹亚游过了黑龙江，而此地距离普京放归它的区域有300英里远（约合500公里）。中国外交部发言人洪磊在声明中称，“我们将与俄方共同努力，做好在中俄两国之间来回的野生东北虎的保护工作。”
Fewer than two dozen tigers remain in China. In Russia, Mr. Putin has put his muscle behind a tiger recovery effort. Wildlife officials estimate that there are now 370 to 450 Siberian tigers in the Russian Far East.
中国境内的野生虎仅有二十多只。而在俄罗斯，普京一直在支持恢复老虎种群的工作。野生动物领域的官员估计，俄罗斯远东地区目前有370到450头西伯利亚虎。