MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia signed a decree on Monday formally recognizing Crimea as a “sovereign and independent state,” laying the groundwork for annexation and defying the United States and Europe just hours after they imposed their first financial sanctions against Moscow since the crisis in Ukraine began.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统普京本周一无视美国和欧洲的反对，签署了一项法令，正式承认克里米亚是一个“主权独立的国家”，奠定了兼并它的基础。就在这项法令签署几小时前，美国和欧洲对莫斯科实施了乌克兰危机爆发以来的首次经济制裁。
Mr. Putin issued his late-night decree after the region declared independence earlier in the day and asked Russia to annex it in keeping with results of a referendum conducted Sunday under the watch of Russian troops. The Kremlin announced that Mr. Putin would address both houses of the Russian Parliament on Tuesday, when many expect him to endorse annexation.
普京在深夜签署了这一法令；当天早些时候，克里米亚依据全民公投的结果宣布独立，并要求俄罗斯兼并它。这次公投是周日在俄罗斯军队监视下进行的。克里姆林宫宣布，本周二普京将对俄罗斯议会两院发表讲话，届时会有很多人期待他赞同兼并克里米亚。
The moves indicated that Moscow remained undaunted by Western pressure in a clash of wills that has created the most profound rift in East-West relations since the end of the Cold War, and which threatens the redrawn borders created after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. Every time the United States and Europe have tried to draw a line in recent weeks, Mr. Putin has vaulted past it. The White House indicated that it had held back going after some in Mr. Putin’s inner circle to have room for its next countermove.
这是一场令东西方关系产生冷战后最深刻裂痕的意志冲突，并威胁到了1991年苏联解体后重新绘制的国境线，而莫斯科的举动表明，它仍然无惧于西方的压力。最近几周，每次美国和欧洲试图划出一条高压线，普京就会越过它。白宫表示它之前有所克制，没有对普京核心圈子中的一些人进行制裁，从而为它的下一步对抗举动留出余地。
The decree signed on Monday effectively raised the ante on President Obama after he froze assets and banned travel for 11 Russian and Ukrainian figures, including Vladislav Surkov, a longtime adviser to Mr. Putin; Dmitri O. Rogozin, a deputy prime minister of Russia; and Valentina I. Matviyenko, a Putin ally and the chairwoman of the Federation Council, the upper house of Russia’s Parliament. The European Union followed with sanctions against 21 Russian and Ukrainian figures.
在奥巴马对11名俄罗斯和乌克兰人进行资产冻结和旅行限制之后，普京周一签署的法令有力地提高了对奥巴马的赌注。制裁名单中有普京的长期顾问弗拉迪斯拉夫·苏尔科夫(Vladislav Surkov)，俄罗斯副总理德米特里·O·罗戈津(Dmitri O. Rogozin)，普京的盟友以及俄罗斯议会上院联邦委员会(Federation Council)女主席瓦伦蒂娜·I·马特维延科(Valentina I. Matviyenko)。欧盟随后也对21名俄罗斯和乌克兰人进行了制裁。
The sweep of the sanctions was viewed as relatively modest, but Mr. Obama signaled he may go further by signing an executive order authorizing future sanctions against Russia’s arms industry and the wealthy business figures who support Mr. Putin’s ruling clique.
外界认为本轮制裁相对温和，但奥巴马暗示，他可能会签署一项行政命令，授权对俄罗斯军工业和支持普京统治集团的富有商人进行进一步制裁。
“We’re making it clear that there are consequences for their actions,” Mr. Obama said as he announced the sanctions. “We’ll continue to make clear to Russia that further provocations will achieve nothing except to further isolate Russia and diminish its place in the world.”
“我们要清楚地表明，他们的做法是有后果的，”奥巴马在宣布这轮制裁的时候说。“我们将继续清楚地表明，进一步挑衅只会加剧俄罗斯的孤立处境并削弱其国际地位。”
In Simferopol, the Crimean capital, celebrations continued Monday, and officials declared it a day off from work as officials announced that 97 percent of voters in Sunday’s referendum supported rejoining Russia. Legislators moved to complete the break from Ukraine, adopting a resolution declaring that the laws of Ukraine no longer applied to Crimea and that state funds and property in Crimea had been transferred to their new entity.
本周一，克里米亚首府辛菲罗波尔继续开展庆祝活动。在宣布97%的投票者在周日的全民公投中支持重新加入俄罗斯的同时，官员们还表示周一放假一天。立法者着手完成脱离乌克兰的行动，他们通过了一项决议，宣布乌克兰的法律已经不再适用于克里米亚，而且克里米亚的国有资金和财产已被转移到新的实体。
Highlighting the tensions, the Ukrainian Parliament in Kiev approved a presidential decree authorizing the call-up of 20,000 reservists, and another 20,000 for a newly formed national guard. The interim government also increased the military budget with an emergency allotment of about $680 million.
令局势愈发紧张的是，位于基辅的乌克兰议会批准了一项总统令，授权征召2万名预备役人员，并为一个新成立的国民警卫队征召另外2万人。乌克兰临时政府还增加了军费预算，紧急划拨了大约6.8亿美元（约合人民币42亿元）。
The American sanctions targeted prominent Russian officials, but not those likely to have many overseas assets; the European list went after generally lower level targets. As a result, the actions were met with derision and even mockery in Moscow. In one measure of the reaction, Russia’s battered stock markets rose sharply at the end of the day.
美国制裁针对的是俄罗斯高官，而不是那些可能拥有大量海外资产的人；欧洲制裁的对象地位普遍低一些。结果制裁行动在莫斯科遭到了嘲笑和甚至嘲弄。其中一个反应是，俄罗斯股市一反颓势，大幅上涨。
“This is a big honor for me,” said Mr. Surkov, once called the “gray cardinal” of the Kremlin and known as the architect of Mr. Putin’s highly centralized political system. He told a Russian newspaper that he had no assets abroad: “In the U.S., I’m interested in Tupac Shakur, Alan Ginsberg and Jackson Pollock. I don’t need a visa to access their work.”
“对我来说，这是一大荣幸，”苏尔科夫说，他以设计了普京的高度集权政治体制而闻名，一度被称为克里姆林宫“灰衣主教”。他告诉一家俄罗斯报纸说，他在国外没有资产：“对于美国，让我感兴趣的有图帕克·沙库尔(Tupac Shakur)，艾伦·金斯堡(Alan Ginsberg)和杰克逊·波洛克(Jackson Pollock)。我不需要签证就可以欣赏到他们的作品。”
Diplomats said some European countries wanted to include as a sanctions target Dmitry K. Kiselyov, a Russian television anchor who warned during a broadcast of his country’s ability to “turn America into radioactive dust.” But his name was dropped amid objections from Finland and others that journalists should not be singled out, even those working for state-controlled organizations.
外交官们称，一些欧洲国家希望把德米特里·K·基谢廖夫(Dmitry K. Kiselyov)列入制裁名单，他是俄罗斯电视台的主持人，曾在一个节目中警告说俄罗斯有能力“把美国化为放射性尘埃”。但由于芬兰等国的反对，他的名字没有进入制裁名单，这些国家认为，即便是为政府喉舌服务的新闻工作者，也不应该遭到制裁。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said the sanctions were not imposed lightly. “We wanted talks and a diplomatic solution, but the clear violation of international law yesterday with the so-called referendum meant we had to take this step, and I am glad that Europe showed such unity,” she said.
德国总理默克尔表示，实施这些制裁并非轻率的决定。“我们希望举行会谈，通过外交途径解决问题，但昨天所谓的公投明显违反了国际法，所以我们不得不走到一步，我很高兴欧洲表现出了这样的团结，”她说。
American officials made clear they will ratchet up the pressure if Mr. Putin does not back down. They went immediately back to the Situation Room after the announcement to begin work on a next round of sanctions that could come as early as this week. Mr. Obama’s new executive order expanded the scope of his authority to target three groups: Russian government officials, the Russian arms industry and Russians who work on behalf of government officials, the latter called “Russian government cronies” by a senior American official.
美国官员明确表示，如果普京不做出让步，他们还将进一步施加压力。在宣布第一轮制裁后，他们马上回到了白宫局势研究室(Situation Room)，开始为下一轮制裁做准备。下一轮制裁最早可能会在本周宣布。奥巴马的新行政命令扩大了他的权力范围，让他可以对三个群体实施制裁：俄罗斯政府官员，俄罗斯军工业，以及代表政府官员工作的俄罗斯人，最后一种被一位美国高级官员称为“俄罗斯政府的亲信”。
While targeting a limited number of individuals at first, administration officials said the scope of the new order was broader than any aimed at Moscow in decades. “These are by far the most comprehensive sanctions applied to Russia since the end of the Cold War — far and away so,” said another senior official, who under the ground rules set by the administration was not identified.
虽然最初遭受制裁的人数有限，但政府官员说新命令的覆盖范围比数十年来针对莫斯科的所有命令都广。“这是自冷战结束之后，针对俄罗斯的制裁中范围最广泛的一次——远远更加广泛，”另一名高级官员说，根据政府设定的基本原则，这名官员的身份不便透露。