KIEV, Ukraine — On the eve of a NATO summit meeting focused on Russian aggression, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia unveiled on Wednesday a seven-point peace plan for Ukraine while President Barack Obama and other Western leaders tried to keep the spotlight on the Kremlin's role in stoking the conflict there and the penalties it should suffer for doing so.
乌克兰基辅——在北约(NATO)关注俄罗斯侵略行动的峰会召开前夕，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)于周三提出了一份和平解决乌克兰问题的七点计划。而美国总统奥巴马和其他西方国家领导人，则试图将焦点放在克里姆林宫(Kremlin)对于激发乌克兰冲突所起到的作用，以及俄罗斯应该为此受到的惩罚。
Never at a loss for theatrical flair, Putin announced the plan soon after arriving on a state visit to Mongolia, brandishing a notebook page on which the first point was that both sides “end active offensive operations.”
普京永远都不缺戏剧天分，他在抵达蒙古国开始国事访问后不久，就挥动着从笔记本里撕下的一页纸，宣布了计划。计划中的第一点是双方“停止进行中的进攻行动”。
Putin's peace plan, jotted out during a plane ride over Siberia, muddied the diplomatic waters, leaving the West an excuse for delaying punitive sanctions that would also hurt European economies on the verge of a new recession. And it was expected to have some appeal to war-weary Ukrainians.
普京在乘坐飞机飞越西伯利亚上空时拟定了这份和平计划，该计划搅乱了外交局面，为西方国家延期采取惩罚性制裁提供了借口。这些制裁举措也会对再次濒临衰退边缘的欧洲经济造成不利影响。该计划也对那些厌倦战争的乌克兰人有一定的吸引力。
The ultimate effect, coming after Russian troops intervened in Ukraine last week to beat back a successful government offensive, may be to leave the country as a loose coalition that Moscow could still dominate, which critics of the Russian president say is his real aim.
这份计划公布前，俄罗斯军队上周在乌克兰进行干预，击退了乌克兰政府军的攻势。这份计划的最终结果可能是致使乌克兰成为一个松散的联盟，让莫斯科方面仍可以进行控制。批评普京的人士称，这才是他的真正目的。
The timing of Putin's announcement was lost on no one, however, as he and Western leaders engaged in a global chess game over the fate of Ukraine.
普京正在和西方领导人就乌克兰的命运，下一场影响全球的棋局。此时，大家都明白普京宣布计划的时机。
In Tallinn, Estonia, Obama made some of his harshest comments to date about the Kremlin's armed intervention in Ukraine and hinted that NATO might now be willing to provide military assistance to Kiev. France postponed delivery of one of two warships it is building for Russia.
在爱沙尼亚塔林，奥巴马发表了迄今为止言辞最为激烈的评论，抨击俄罗斯在乌克兰的武装干涉，并暗示北约现在可能愿意为基辅提供军事援助。正在为俄罗斯建造两艘战舰的法国，决定延期交付其中的一艘。
NATO leaders, including Obama, are to meet in Newport, Wales, on Thursday to discuss bolstering the alliance, including a new rapid deployment force intended to respond to future Russian military threats and a reaffirmation of its commitment to its smaller members. In addition, European leaders are contemplating a fourth, harsher round of sanctions against Russia.
包括奥巴马在内的北约领导人将于周四在威尔士新港(Newport)举行会议，讨论壮大联盟的问题，比如新建一支快速部署军队，以应对俄罗斯未来的军事威胁，重申对较小成员国的承诺。除此之外，欧洲领导人正在考虑对俄罗斯开展第四轮更严厉的制裁。
Putin's plan seemed to raise more questions than it answered. First, there was no mechanism for implementation. Second, just hours earlier, his own spokesman had repeated the Russian position, widely criticized as implausible, that Moscow could not negotiate a cease-fire because it was not a direct party to the conflict.
普京的计划提出的问题比解答的问题还多。首先，没有实施机制。其次，就在几小时前，普京自己的发言人重申了俄罗斯的立场，称莫斯科方面不会谈判停火，因为它不是冲突的直接参与方，人们普遍批评这种说辞站不住脚。
Analysts suggested that Putin's strategy is to convince Kiev that it has no choice but to negotiate, not fight, and to reinforce the idea that the overall outcome depended on Moscow.
分析人士表示，普京的策略是使基辅相信，基辅现在只能通过谈判来解决问题，而不是战斗，同时强化所有结果都取决于俄罗斯的想法。
“Russia wants to show that it is in command of what is happening,” said Fyodor Lukyanov, editor of a prominent Russian foreign policy journal. “For Russia, it is important first to prevent the Ukrainians from thinking that they could win militarily, and to accept the separatist leaders as partners in negotiations.”
“俄罗斯希望展示，它掌控了现在的局势，”俄罗斯一份著名外交政策刊物的主编费奥多尔·卢基扬诺夫(Fyodor Lukyanov)说。“对于俄罗斯来说，首先要阻止乌克兰人产生他们能在军事上取胜的想法，还要接受分裂势力领导人参加谈判的安排，这非常重要。”
The details of the peace deal were sketchy at best, entangled in complicated diplomacy and domestic politics. But it was clear from various, somewhat confused and contradictory statements that Putin and the Ukrainian president, Petro O. Poroshenko, held an extensive discussion on the issue by telephone early Wednesday.
这项和平协议的细节至多也只能算是语焉不详，牵扯到复杂的外交角力和国内政治。但从各种令人困惑、自相矛盾的声明中可以明显看出，普京及乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)在周三早些时候就该问题通过电话进行了广泛讨论。
At first, Poroshenko's office issued a vague announcement that the two leaders had agreed to a “lasting cease-fire.” The statement was diluted later to say only that both leaders had endorsed the need for a cease-fire and that Poroshenko hoped negotiations would begin in earnest on Friday. Putin said his notes emerged from the telephone conversation.
起初，波罗申科的办公室发布了一条措辞含糊的消息，称这两位领导人已同意达成“持久停火”。后来，这份声明的内容被弱化，仅仅说两位领导人都认同达成停火的必要性，且波罗申科希望谈判于周五真正开始。普京称，他的笔记来自于电话通话内容。
In announcing the plan, Putin said he expected Ukraine and the separatists to wrap up an agreement after a new round of negotiations in Minsk, Belarus, on Friday. Ukraine, Russia and Europe are all party to the talks there, and they include representatives of the separatists. The two-day NATO summit meeting is also scheduled to end Friday.
在宣布这个方案时，普京表示，他预计周五在白俄罗斯明斯克举行新一轮谈判过后，乌克兰和分裂分子将达成一份协议。乌克兰、俄罗斯和欧洲，以及分裂势力的代表都将参与谈判。为期两天的北约峰会也将于周五结束。
Obama devoted his main speech in Estonia to a scathing attack on Russia's actions against Ukraine. “It is a brazen assault on the territorial integrity of Ukraine, a sovereign and independent European nation,” he said in the speech to more than 1,800 students, young professionals, and civic and political leaders at a concert hall. “It challenges that most basic of principles of our international system: that borders cannot be redrawn at the barrel of a gun; that nations have the right to determine their own future.”
奥巴马在爱沙尼亚演讲时猛烈抨击了俄罗斯对乌克兰采取的行动。“这是对乌克兰这个独立的欧洲主权国家领土完整的公然侵犯，”他在一座音乐厅向超过1800名学生、年轻白领，以及公民和政治领袖发表演讲时说。“它挑战了国际体系的最基本原则：不能在枪炮的威胁下重新划定国界；各国有权决定自己的未来。”
Rejecting Putin's frequent denials of intervention in Ukraine and his assertion that the Russian presence there is part of a humanitarian or peacekeeping mission, Obama said it was clear that Moscow was responsible for escalating tensions. “It's been the pro-Russian separatists who are encouraged by Russia, financed by Russia, trained by Russia, supplied by Russia and armed by Russia,” he said.
普京多次否认对乌克兰实施了干预，并声称俄罗斯在乌克兰的存在，属于人道主义和维和行动，奥巴马对此进行了反驳。奥巴马说，莫斯科显然应该对紧张局势的不断升级负责。“俄罗斯为亲俄的分裂分子提供了鼓励、资助、训练、补给，以及武器。”
Obama said that any assault on the Baltic states, former Soviet republics just like Ukraine, but which, unlike Ukraine, are now members of NATO, would be met by force.
奥巴马称，对波罗的海国家的任何侵犯都会遭遇武力回应。这些国家与乌克兰一样，都是前苏联国家，但与乌克兰不同的是，它们现在是北约成员国。
In Kiev, the idea of a cease-fire was received with mixed emotions.
基辅对停火的态度并不一致。
There is open hostility to the idea that Russia will be able to dictate terms to its weaker neighbor after already wrenching away the Crimean peninsula in March. Any compromise after months of condemning the separatists as “terrorists” risks weakening Poroshenko in central and western Ukraine.
俄罗斯已经在3月份攫取了克里米亚半岛，未来还能把一些条款强加于这个弱小邻国，人们对这种局面公开表达了反对。波罗申科几个月来一直谴责分裂分子是“恐怖分子”，现在做出任何让步，都可能削弱他在乌克兰中部和西部的支持率。
Prime Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk called Putin's proposal “an attempt to confuse the international community” before the NATO summit meeting and the expected announcement of new sanctions from the European Union.
乌克兰总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)称，普京的提议是为了在北约峰会，以及欧盟预期的新制裁公布之前，“迷惑国际社会”。