MOSCOW — With his customary swagger and salty language, President Vladimir V. Putin held forth on a sweeping array of topics in his traditional year-end news conference on Thursday, even throwing in a glowing assessment of Donald J. Trump. 
莫斯科——本周四，普京总统在例行的年终新闻发布会上谈到了一系列话题，其洋洋自得和言辞粗俗的作风依然如故，他甚至还对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)进行了褒扬。
Mr. Putin drew applause from the crowd of journalists when he lashed out at Turkey for having shot down a Russian bomber, daring the Turks to try it again with Russia’s advanced air defense system in place.
当普京抨击土耳其击落一架俄罗斯轰炸机、激土耳其再试试俄罗斯部署的先进的防空系统时，一群记者发出了掌声。
Using a crude expression to describe the Turks as ingratiating themselves with Washington, he said perhaps they “wanted to lick the Americans in a certain place.”
他用粗俗的言辞来形容土耳其人讨好华盛顿，说也许他们“想舔美国人的某个地方”。
The Russian leader was alternately pugnacious and conciliatory during the news conference, which was more than three hours long. In years past, he has had sharp words for Washington, but this time he praised the efforts of Secretary of State John Kerry to find a political solution to the war in Syria.
在三个多小时的新闻发布会上，普京有时候表现得很好战，有时候也会安抚人心。过去几年里他对华盛顿出言不逊，但这次他称赞了美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)努力为叙利亚战争寻找政治解决之道。
Mr. Putin also veered close to an admission that Russian soldiers had fought in the war in eastern Ukraine, saying, “We never said there were no people there solving certain questions, including in the military sphere,” but he denied that they were on active duty with the regular army. “Get a sense of that distinction,” he said.
普京还几乎承认了有俄罗斯军人在乌克兰东部参战，表示“我们从来没有说过没人在那里解决某些问题，包括军事领域的问题，”但他否认这些人是现役的正规军。“这种区别要分清，”他说。
He even gave a few hints of his closely guarded family life, talking proudly of his two grown daughters, who he said were living in Russia and “taking the first steps of their careers.”
普京的家庭生活一向严格保密，这次他却透露了一点这方面的情况。他很自豪地谈起两个已经成年的女儿，说她们在俄罗斯生活，并且“正在各自的职业生涯中迈出前几步”。
Mr. Putin likes to throw in a few surprises on these occasions, as he did two years ago by announcing the release of the imprisoned oil tycoon, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky. This year, he rose to the defense of Sepp Blatter, the embattled president of soccer’s world governing body, FIFA, who is under criminal investigation for corruption, saying Mr. Blatter should be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
普京喜欢在这样的场合发布一两个令人意外的消息，比如他两年前宣布释放遭到监禁的石油大亨官米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)。今年他则为四面楚歌的赛普·布拉特(Sepp Blatter)做了辩护，宣称他应该被授予诺贝尔和平奖。布拉特是国际足球管理机构FIFA的主席，目前正在接受腐败刑事调查。
And he even inserted himself into the Republican presidential primary contest in the United States, speaking highly of Mr. Trump in remarks after the news conference ended.
普京甚至还对美国共和党的总统初选表达了看法，在新闻发布会结束之后，他高度赞扬了特朗普。
“There is no doubt that he is a very bright and talented man,” the Russian leader said. “It is not our business to assess his merits; that is up to the U.S. voters. But he is an absolute leader of the presidential race.”
“毫无疑问，他是一个非常聪明、很有才华的人，”普京说。“评估他的优点和我们无关，这得由美国选民说了算。但他在总统竞选中绝对位列前茅。”
Beneath the pyrotechnics, Mr. Putin seemed most concerned with driving home the point to his domestic audience that Russia’s battered economy had bottomed out, an indication that Russia’s recession had his full attention.
在喧闹的场面之下，普京最重视的事情似乎是竭力让俄罗斯人相信该国经济下滑已经见底，表明他全神贯注在俄罗斯的经济衰退上。
Peppered with dozens of questions, Mr. Putin lingered, as he did at last year’s session, on those that allowed him to reassure Russians that their living standards were not imperiled.
面对几十个问题，普京就像去年一样，流连在那些可以安抚俄罗斯民众、称他们的生活水平并没有蒙受损害的话题上。
He went out of his way to say that Russia’s economy had hit bottom this year, and that it was now bouncing back — though independent economists and even Russia’s central bank, in a report released this month, have contested that view.
他特意提到俄罗斯经济今年已经触底，目前正在反弹——不过，独立的经济学者并不同意这种说法，就连俄罗斯央行本月初发布的报告也与之意见相左。
In 2008, he complained bitterly about the United States’ backing independence for Kosovo, and railed about Washington’s propensity to intervene in countries’ internal affairs where and when it sees fit. “We are told all the time, ‘Kosovo is a special case,’” Mr. Putin said. “It is all lies. There is no special case, and everybody understands it perfectly well.”
在2008年，他对美国支持科索沃独立大加抱怨，指责华盛顿喜欢肆意干预其他国家的内政。“我们总是听到，‘科索沃情况特殊，’”普京说。“这是彻头彻尾的谎言。没有什么情况特殊，大家都十分清楚。”
He propounded the same anti-interventionist theme in later years in the case of Libya, where he was embittered at having been misled into supporting a “humanitarian” intervention that ended up in what he saw as a disastrous exercise in regime change.
之后几年，他又在利比亚问题上重申了反对外部干涉的主张。他认为，自己被误导而支持的“人道主义”干预行动令该国在政权更迭中饱受煎熬，对此他痛心疾首。
“No matter how they explained their position, the state is falling apart,” he said in 2012. “Interethnic, interclan and intertribal conflicts continue.” He added, “And you want us to constantly repeat these mistakes in other countries?”
“无论他们如何解释自己的立场，这个国家都在分崩离析，”他在2012年说。“族群、派别和部族之间的冲突绵延不绝。”他说，“你还想让我们在其他国家再犯这样的错误吗？”
He argued against intervention by outside powers in Syria as well, adding that Russia was “not concerned with the fate” of President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. “Of course, changes are being demanded, but it’s something else that concerns — what will happen next?”
他也反对外部势力干涉叙利亚局势，称俄罗斯“不关心”叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政权会怎么样。“当然，变化是要有的，但令人关切的是别的事情——接下来会发生些什么？”
Mr. Putin brushed aside a question about the cost to Russia’s struggling economy of the bombing campaign in Syria. It would be paid for, he said, out of the Defense Ministry’s training budget.
当被问到在叙利亚开展轰炸行动会让俄罗斯陷入困境的经济付出怎样的代价时，普京没有正面作答，只是说，这笔款项会用国防部的培训预算来支付。
“It’s hard to imagine a better training drill,” he said of the bombing in Syria.
“这是再好不过的培训演练了，”他如此评价在叙利亚开展的轰炸行动。
Since Turkey shot down a Russian warplane that it said had violated its airspace, Mr. Putin has engaged in a war of words with the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and ordered a number of retaliatory measures. On Thursday, he made clear that Russia has made Syria a no-fly zone for Turkish airplanes.
自从土耳其声称一架俄罗斯战机侵犯了自己的领空并将其击落以来，普京和土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)展开了口舌之争，还下令采取了多项报复措施。本周四，他明确表示，俄罗斯已将叙利亚列为土耳其飞机的禁飞区。