President Vladimir V. Putin told an audience of students on Monday that the United States had effectively trapped Edward J. Snowden, the fugitive former intelligence contractor, on Russian territory by frightening countries that otherwise might have accepted him. When Mr. Putin insisted that Russia did not want Mr. Snowden to cause damage to the United States, the students laughed out loud.
周一，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在对学生讲话时表示，美国已经通过威胁那些原本准备接受爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的国家，成功地将这位逃亡中的前情报工作人员困在了俄罗斯的领土上。当普京坚称俄罗斯并不希望斯诺登对美国造成损害时，学生们顿时哄堂大笑。
Mr. Putin made the remarks on Hogland Island in the Gulf of Finland, where he was reviewing projects of the Russian Geographical Society. He spoke about Mr. Snowden, who announced on Friday that he would formally request asylum in Russia, during a meeting with student researchers who were attending an archaeological camp on the island.
普京是在芬兰湾的霍格兰岛视察俄罗斯地理学会(Russian Geographical Society)的项目时发表上述言论的。他在会见正在该岛参加一个考古活动的学生研究员的过程中提到了斯诺登。斯诺登于上周五宣布，他将正式向俄罗斯提出庇护申请。
Russian officials said Monday that they still had not yet received an application from Mr. Snowden, and Mr. Putin did not say outright whether he would grant a request from him. But the president clearly signaled that it remained a possibility.
俄罗斯官员周一称，他们仍未收到斯诺登的申请，普京也没有直接说是否会答应他的申请。但是普京明确表示，这是有可能的。
Mr. Snowden arrived at Sheremetyevo Airport outside Moscow on a flight from Hong Kong on June 23, and he has been there ever since, living in the transit zone of the airport with the consent of the Kremlin and apparently with some support from the Russian authorities. On Friday, Mr. Snowden met at the airport with lawyers, Russian officials and representatives of human rights organizations.
6月23日，斯诺登从香港起飞，来到了位于莫斯科外的谢列梅捷沃机场(Sheremetyevo Airport)，随后就一直待在那里，在得到俄罗斯政府许可及一些俄罗斯官员的明显支持的情况下，住在机场的过境区。周五，斯诺登在机场与律师、俄罗斯官员，以及人权组织的代表见了面。
Mr. Putin’s comments came in response to a question from a geography student, Alexandra Schurova, who noted that despite living on the island, the students were interested in the spy action on the mainland.
普京是在回答地理学学生亚历山德拉·休罗瓦(Alexandra Schurova)的问题时做出上述评论的。这名学生说，虽然住在岛上，但是他们都对大陆上的间谍活动很感兴趣。
Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. agent, teased that geographers had always been close to espionage activity and, according to a Kremlin transcript of the event, jokingly described Mr. Snowden as an unwanted Christmas present.
普京曾是克格勃(KGB)特工，他开玩笑说，地理学家与间谍活动的关系一直很密切，根据克里姆林宫(Kremlin)的文字记录，他还开玩笑称斯诺登是一个多余的圣诞礼物。
“He arrived on our territory without an invitation,” Mr. Putin said. “He didn’t fly to us; he flew in transit to other countries. But only when it became known that he was in the air, our American partners, in fact, blocked him from flying further.
“他是不请自来地来到我们的领土上的，”普京说，“他的目的地并不是俄国；他原本想在这里转机飞往其他国家。但是，当人们知道他已经起飞时，我们的美国伙伴开始阻止他飞往别处。”
“They themselves scared all other countries; no one wants to take him, and in this way they themselves in fact blocked him on our territory. Such a present for us for Christmas.”
“他们自己恐吓其他国家，因而没有一个国家愿意接收他，实际上，是他们自己将斯诺登困在了我们的领土上。这真是送给我们的圣诞礼物啊。”
Mr. Putin said Russia had invited Mr. Snowden to apply for asylum on the condition that he first stop his political activities — presumably all leaking of classified information that could harm the United States. But given Russia’s long intelligence rivalry with the United States, it is hard to believe that Mr. Putin has not been enjoying Washington’s discomfort over Mr. Snowden, and even his student audience laughed at the suggestion.
普京表示，俄罗斯欢迎斯诺登申请庇护，前提是，他首先要停止自己的政治活动——可能是指要停止所有泄露机密信息的举动，这些信息会对美国造成伤害。但鉴于俄罗斯与美国长期以来都是情报领域的对手，在斯诺登让华盛顿方面感到不安一事上，很难相信普京不会幸灾乐祸。甚至连他的学生听众都因为这番言论而发笑。
“Initially,” Mr. Putin said, “we offered him, ‘If you want to stay, please, but you have to stop your political activities. We have a certain relationship with the U.S., and we don’t want you with your political activities damaging our relationship with the U.S.’
“最初，”普京说，“我们向他提出，‘如果你想留下，那就留下，但你得停止你的政治活动，我们与美国有着一定的关系，我们不希望你和你的政治活动破坏我们与美国的关系。’”
“He said, ‘No.’ ”
“他说，‘不。’”
The students laughed.
学生们大笑。
“You laugh, but I am speaking seriously,” Mr. Putin continued. “He said: ‘No, I want to continue my work. I want to fight for human rights. I believe that the United States violated certain norms of international law, interfered with private life.’ ”
“你们在笑，但我是认真的，”普京继续说，“他说，‘不，我想继续我的工作。我想为人权而斗争。我认为美国违背了国际法的一些条例，对私生活进行了干涉。’”
The Obama administration has been pressing Russia not to grant asylum to Mr. Snowden, and it has been pressing other countries not to take him, particularly in Latin America, where Venezuela, Bolivia and Nicaragua have said they are willing to grant him asylum.
奥巴马政府一直强烈要求俄罗斯不要为斯诺登提供庇护，美国还一直对其他国家施压，要求它们不要接收斯诺登，特别是在拉丁美洲地区，委内瑞拉、玻利维亚和尼加拉瓜已经表示，它们愿意庇护斯诺登。
President Obama spoke with Mr. Putin by telephone on Friday. Neither side has disclosed precisely what was said , but the White House has made clear that in its view, American interests are being harmed as long as Mr. Snowden is at large and not back in the United States to face criminal charges.
周五，奥巴马总统与普京通过电话进行交谈。双方都没有透露具体的谈话内容，但白宫明确表明，自己的观点是，只要斯诺登没被逮捕，没有回到美国面临犯罪指控，美国的利益就在遭受损害。
Mr. Putin said on the island that he thought Mr. Snowden would move on from Russia. “As soon as an opportunity to move somewhere emerges, he will do it, of course,” he said.
普京在霍格兰岛上表示，他认为斯诺登会离开俄罗斯。普京说，“一旦有机会转移到其他地方，他当然会离开俄罗斯。”