MOSCOW — Russia should retaliate against the economic sanctions being imposed on the country over the Kremlin’s Ukraine policy, President Vladimir V. Putin said Tuesday. His was the strongest endorsement yet for calls in Russia to ban everything from major Western accounting firms to overflights by European airlines to frozen American chickens.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周二表示，俄罗斯应该对其承受的经济制裁予以反击。俄罗斯受到制裁的原因是克里姆林宫的乌克兰政策。目前，俄罗斯国内舆论呼吁颁布广泛的禁令，目标包括大型西方会计师事务所、飞越俄罗斯上空的欧洲航空公司，甚至还有美国的冷冻鸡肉。普京的表态，对这种意见给予了最有力的支持。
Mr. Putin said that Russia should signal that it finds the economic sanctions offensive, but that it should do so without harming Russian consumers.
普京表示，俄罗斯应该表明西方的经济制裁令人愤怒，但前提是不损害俄罗斯消费者的利益。
“The political tools of economic pressure are unacceptable and run counter to all norms and rules,” he was quoted as saying by Russian news agencies.
俄罗斯的通讯社援引他的话说，“把经济压力当作政治工具是不可接受的，违反了所有的标准和规则。”
He noted in a meeting with a local governor south of Moscow that the Russian government had already proposed a number of measures “in order to protect the interests of national manufacturers of consumer goods,” the agencies reported. Dmitri A. Medvedev, the prime minister, was also quoted on Tuesday as saying, “We need to discuss possible retaliatory measures.”
据这些通讯社报道，他在与莫斯科以南的一名地方长官会面时指出，俄罗斯政府已经提出了一系列举措，“来保护全国消费品制造商的利益”。报道还称，俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)也在周二表示，“我们需要就一些可能的报复措施展开讨论。”
The new sanctions imposed against Russia by the United States and the European Union were prompted by outrage over the suspicion that Russia was continuing to supply the pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine with weapons, possibly including the antiaircraft missile believed to have shot down a civilian passenger jet, killing all 298 aboard. Russia has suggested that Ukraine was responsible.
由于怀疑俄罗斯仍在向乌克兰东部的亲俄分裂分子提供武器，美国和欧洲联盟(European Union)在愤怒之下，对俄罗斯了采取新的制裁。击落一架民航客机，导致机上298人遇难的防空导弹或许就包括在这些武器当中。俄罗斯曾暗示，乌克兰应该对这起事件负责。
The government of Ukraine said Tuesday that it would continue to press its offensive against the separatists, and that there were reports of shelling and fighting in several suburbs of Donetsk, the main rebel stronghold.
乌克兰政府周二表示，将继续对分裂分子发动攻势。乌克兰政府还表示，有消息称，在分裂分子的主要据点顿涅茨克郊外，有多个区域仍有炮击和战斗。
Initially, Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, reacted to Western sanctions by saying Moscow would not resort to “eye-for-an-eye” retaliatory measures.
对于西方的制裁，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)最初曾表示，莫斯科不会采取“以眼还眼”的报复措施。
Then, in the first significant fallout, a subsidiary of Aeroflot, the main Russian international airline, said it was halting all flights to Crimea and scrapping its plans to expand its domestic service because European sanctions effectively ended its leases for Boeing 737-800 aircraft.
之后，俄罗斯第一次做出了强烈反应。俄罗斯主要的国际航空公司俄罗斯航空公司(Aeroflot)旗下的一家子公司表示，将停止飞往克里米亚的所有航班，取消拓展国内航空业务的计划，因为欧洲的制裁措施实际上终止了它租用波音737–800飞机的合约。
In April, a month after Russia annexed Crimea, Mr. Putin urged Russians to vacation there and promised subsidized tickets. The Aeroflot subsidiary, Dobrolet, was a main instrument of that policy, offering low fares from Moscow.
今年4月，在俄罗斯吞并克里米亚一个月后，普京曾鼓励俄罗斯人去那里度假，而且承诺给他们提供票价补贴。这项政策主要由俄航的子公司Dobrolet实施，提供从莫斯科出发的廉价机票。
The broadened Western sanctions cover state-owned banks, military hardware, some technology for the energy industry, and entities doing business in Crimea, like Dobrolet.
范围扩大后的西方制裁措施，涵盖了国有银行、军事装备、一些用于能源行业的技术，以及在克里米亚做生意的企业，如Dobrolet。
Japan joined in on Tuesday with its own list of individuals and entities whose assets in Japan would be frozen.
周二，日本也加入了对俄罗斯实施制裁的行列，编列了个人和机构的清单，并将冻结其中所列的个人和机构在日本的资产。
Russia has already taken some retaliatory steps, banning certain food imports, including Ukrainian dairy products, Polish apples, Australian beef, pork from various neighbors and Moldovan fruit. The Russian news media has reported that American chickens might be next.
俄罗斯已经采取了一些报复措施，禁止了一些食品的进口，其中包括乌克兰的奶制品、波兰的苹果、澳大利亚的牛肉、多个邻国的猪肉，以及摩尔多瓦的水果。俄罗斯新闻媒体报导称，接下来可能会轮到美国的鸡肉。
There is also talk of barring airlines like Lufthansa, Air France and British Airways from routing their long-haul flights to Asia across Siberia, the shortest and cheapest flight path. The business daily newspaper Vedomosti noted that the foreign carriers paid Aeroflot $300 million a year to use those routes, and the news of a possible ban hammered Aeroflot’s stock price on Tuesday.
也有人在谈论禁止汉莎航空(Lufthansa)、法国航空(Air France)和英国航空(British Airways)飞往亚洲的长途航线越过西伯利亚上空，这是最短也最便宜的飞行路线。俄罗斯商业日报《新闻报》(Vedomosti)指出，外国航空公司每年要向俄航支付3亿美元的航路使用费，于是俄航股价周二也因为关于禁令的传闻受到了影响。
Some Russian legislators have proposed barring six major consulting and accounting firms from “aggressor countries” — Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, the Boston Consulting Group and McKinsey — from doing business in Russia.
一些俄罗斯议员还提出，要禁止“侵略国”的六家大型咨询公司和会计师事务所在俄罗斯的业务经营，包括德勤(Deloitte)、安永(Ernst & Young)、毕马威(KPMG)、普华永道(PricewaterhouseCoopers)、波士顿咨询公司(Boston Consulting Group)和麦肯锡(McKinsey)。
Senior government officials, including Mr. Putin, call almost daily for Russia to resurrect industries like domestic airplane production that withered under Western competition after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
包括普京在内的政府高官，几乎每天都在呼吁重振俄罗斯工业，如国内的飞机制造业。苏联解体后，这些产业在西方竞争之下出现了萎缩。
Mr. Putin’s emphasis on sparing Russian consumers came after news reports that as many as 27,000 Russian tourists were stranded overseas in recent weeks after four large travel agencies went bankrupt. Their collapse was linked to a ban imposed informally in April, blocking anyone working in law enforcement — about four million Russians — from vacationing abroad.
普京之所以强调不为难俄罗斯消费者，是因为有新闻报道称，最近几周，因为四家大型旅行社破产，共有多达2.7万名俄罗斯游客滞留在了海外。这些旅行社的破产，与4月实施的一项非正式禁令有关，即禁止任何执法机构工作人员——大约400万俄罗斯人——到海外度假。
There were mixed reports from Ukraine on Tuesday about the fighting there. The government said its armed forces were not trying to storm rebel-held cities like Donetsk, but were preparing to free them from the grip of militias. The government says its army has encircled Donetsk, but there were reports of setbacks, including desertions and retreats along the Russia border.
关于当地的战斗，乌克兰周二传出了各不相同报道。政府表示，其武装部队不会尝试冲进顿涅茨克等被叛军占领的城市，但正在准备把它们从武装分子手中解放出来。政府表示，军队已将顿涅茨克包围，但也有报道称政府军遭遇了挫折，俄罗斯边境沿线出现了擅离职守和撤退的现象。
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said Monday evening that its observer mission had negotiated a humanitarian corridor into Russia for 437 Ukrainian soldiers who were encircled by rebel forces. The 72nd Mechanized Infantry Brigade had been “surrounded by separatists and left without ammunition, fuel and food,” the report said.
周一夜间，欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)表示，其观察员小组通过谈判，已经为受到叛乱武装包围的437名乌克兰政府军士兵，开辟了一条通往俄罗斯的人道主义通道。报告中说，72机械化步兵旅已被“分裂分子包围，而且他们没有任何弹药、燃料和食物”。
Some Russian news outlets said the soldiers had defected to Russia, and carried interviews with a few soldiers marveling at the warm reception they received. But a spokesman for the government in Kiev, Andriy Lysenko, said that by Tuesday evening, 195 of the soldiers had returned to Ukraine and the rest were expected to come.
有些俄罗斯媒体称，这些士兵已经叛逃到了俄罗斯，而且它们还采访了一些士兵，这些士兵都对自己受到的热情欢迎感到惊讶。但是，基辅政府的发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)表示，截至周二晚间，已有195名士兵回到了乌克兰，其他人也即将回国。