MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Thursday delivered an acidic message of defiance and anger at the West at an annual news conference in Moscow, showing no sign of softening his position on Ukraine despite the financial turmoil that has gripped the country.
莫斯科——周四在这里的年度新闻发布会上，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京向西方传递了一个蔑视和愤怒的强硬信息，尽管俄国受到金融风暴的冲击，但他在乌克兰问题上的立场没有一点软化的迹象。
Mr. Putin blamed “external factors,” including Western sanctions and falling oil prices, for the collapse of the Russian currency, the ruble. But he played down the severity of the economic crisis, saying that it would last a maximum of two years before a return of growth.
普京把俄罗斯货币卢布的崩溃归咎于“外部因素”，包括西方的制裁和油价下跌。但他淡化了经济危机的严重性，称危机最多会持续两年，之后经济将回归增长。
“I believe that we are right,” Mr. Putin said of the conflict in Ukraine, likening the West’s expansion of NATO toward Russia as a new Berlin Wall. “And I believe that our Western partners are not right.”
“我相信，我们是对的，”普京提到乌克兰冲突时说，他把西方将北约向俄罗斯扩展的做法比作新的柏林墙。“我也相信，我们的西方伙伴是不对的。”
At the conference, which was attended by about 1,200 journalists, Mr. Putin said that initial moves to stabilize the ruble may have been too slow, but he promised quick action to avoid further economic damage. He also promised to maintain social welfare programs at their current level.
在这个有约1200名新闻记者参加的发布会上，普京说，最初采取的稳定卢布的行动可能过慢，他承诺将采取快速行动，以避免给经济造成进一步的破坏。他还承诺把社会福利项目维持在现有的水平。
“I believe that the central bank and the government are taking adequate measures,” Mr. Putin said.
普京说，“我相信，央行和政府正在采取适当的措施。”
Mr. Putin recognized the efforts of President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine in ending the conflict in the southeast of that country, but he suggested that others in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, may be trying to prolong the conflict.
普京承认了乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)在结束该国东南部冲突中所做的努力，但他指出，乌克兰首都基辅有其他人可能在试图延长冲突。
“Undoubtedly, the president of Ukraine certainly wants a settlement, and I have no doubt that he is striving for this,” Mr. Putin said.
普京说，“毫无疑问，乌克兰总统确实想解决纠纷，我毫不怀疑他正在为此做出努力。”
“But he’s not alone there,” he added, referring to more hawkish officials.
“但那里不只他一个人，”他补充说，这是指还有更强硬的官员。
“We hear a lot of militant statements; I believe President Poroshenko is seeking a settlement, but there is a need for practical action,” Mr. Putin added. “There is a need to observe the Minsk agreements” calling for a cease-fire and withdrawal of forces.
“我们听到了许多好战的声明；我相信波罗申科总统正在寻求和解，但也有必要采取实际行动，“普京补充说。“有必要观察明斯克协议”呼吁停火和撤军的效果。
Russia has toned down its talk on the Ukraine crisis in the past month, and some of its most incendiary language, like “junta” and “Novorossiya,” a blanket term used for the separatist territories, is no longer used on state-run television news. Mr. Putin also notably omitted those terms, which he had used in other public appearances, on Thursday.
在过去一个月里，俄罗斯已经降低了在乌克兰危机上的调子，一些最具煽动性的语言，比如“军人集团”、以及对闹分裂地区的概括性称呼“新俄罗斯”(Novorossiya)等词，已不在国有电视台的新闻报道中使用。普京在周四也特意避免了这些词语，以前他在其他公众场合露面时曾用过这些说法。
Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov said in an interview on the news channel France 24 on Tuesday that Russia was not suggesting federalization “for the separatist territories” and “not suggesting autonomy.”
俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)周二在接受法国24小时(France 24)新闻频道采访时表示，俄罗斯并没有暗示让“闹分裂地区”联邦化，也“没有建议其享有自主权。”
Mr. Putin has managed to maintain high popularity ratings during 15 years of leading Russia, in large part by assuring security and prosperity, but the recent nose dive of the national currency is threatening that achievement. The ruble, which has lost more than 46 percent of its value against the dollar this year, was broadly stable on Thursday, trading at 61.14 to the dollar in the afternoon.
普京在领导俄罗斯的15年间能保持高民望，在很大程度上是通过保证国家安全和繁荣，但俄国货币最近的急剧下跌正在给这一成就带来威胁。卢布兑美元的汇率今年已降低了逾46％，汇率在周四基本稳定，午后交易价是61.14卢布兑1美元。
The currency’s plunge came in large part as a result of a precipitous drop in oil prices. Energy resources constitute 60 percent of the country’s exports, and Russia’s budget is built around an oil price of roughly $100 a barrel, whereas oil is now selling at about $61 a barrel. But Western sanctions imposed after Russia annexed Crimea and destabilized Ukraine have compounded the problem.
卢布的暴跌在很大程度上是石油价格急剧下降的结果。能源出口占俄罗斯出口的60％，而且俄国的预算是建立在每桶大约100美元的油价基础上的，而石油目前的售价约为每桶61美元。俄罗斯吞并克里米亚，在乌克兰制造不稳定后，西方的制裁也加剧了这个问题。
Russian companies owe about $650 billion to Western banks, while the country’s foreign exchange reserves are pegged at about $400 million. The government tried to calm the exchange markets by announcing that it had sufficient money to cover the debts, but with all new financing from the West cut off by sanctions, the source of that money remained unclear.
俄罗斯企业欠西方银行约6500亿美元的债务，而该国的外汇储备只相当于4000亿美元。政府试图通过宣布它有足够的钱支付债务来平静外汇市场，但制裁切断了来自西方的所有新融资，所以政府的钱从何而来尚不清楚。