KIEV, Ukraine — Ukrainian and Western leaders tried on Sunday to dissuade President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia from overplaying his hand and ordering an invasion of eastern Ukraine, even as Russian forces and their sympathizers in the Crimean Peninsula worked to disarm or neutralize any Ukrainian resistance there.
乌克兰基辅——周日，乌克兰和西方领导人努力劝说俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，希望他不要过高估计自己的力量，下令入侵东乌克兰。与此同时，俄罗斯军队及其在克里米亚半岛的支持者正在解除当地乌克兰抵抗力量的武装，或是使之丧生抵抗能力。
What began in Ukraine three months ago as a protest against the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovych has now turned into a big-power confrontation reminiscent of the Cold War and a significant challenge to international agreements on the sanctity of the borders of post-Soviet nations.
三个月前，针对总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)领导的政府的抗议活动在乌克兰开始，活动现已转变成一场带有冷战色彩的大国对抗，对有关后苏联国家领土不可侵犯的国际协议构成了严峻挑战。
The Russian incursion also poses a new crisis for the Obama administration, which embraced the new government in Kiev but now finds itself confronted with an ever more thinly veiled invasion of Ukraine.
俄罗斯的侵入还给奥巴马政府带来了新的危机，后者支持基辅的新政府，现在却发现自己面对着一场越来越不加掩饰的入侵乌克兰行动。
American intelligence agencies tracked thousands of additional Russian troops arriving in Crimea on Sunday, bolstering the Russian forces already in the area, an American official said. The official gave no further detail about the types of forces, and did not say whether the Obama administration believes that Mr. Putin will send even more troops in the days to come.
一名美国官员表示，美国情报机构发现，又有数千名俄罗斯士兵于周日抵达克里米亚，增援已经到达该地区的俄罗斯军队。上述官员没有提供有关部队类型的更多细节，也没有说明奥巴马政府是否认为普京将在未来几日派遣更多士兵。
A senior Obama administration official said Russian troops now have “complete operational control of the Crimean Peninsula, with some 6,000 airborne and naval forces there. The official confirmed that the Russians were flying in additional reinforcements to Ukraine Sunday, adding that the Russian military is “settling in” as an occupying force.
一名奥巴马政府高级官员表示，俄罗斯军队目前已经“完全掌控克里米亚半岛，在当地的空军及海军士兵大约有6000名”。该官员确认了俄罗斯援军周日乘飞机抵达乌克兰的事实，并表示俄罗斯军队已经成为占领军，在那里“安营扎寨”。
For the most part, Ukrainian military forces have stayed in their barracks and in some cases their weapons have been stored in an attempt to avoid an escalation, the official said.
这名官员表示，乌克兰军队大多待在自己的兵营里，有些部队还把武器存放入库，以避免局势升级。
After the newly appointed Ukrainian Navy chief, Rear Adm. Denis Berezovsky swore allegiance to the people of Crimea, who are decidedly pro-Russian, an embarrassed Kiev immediately removed him and said it would investigate him for treason.
刚被任命为乌克兰海军司令的丹尼斯·别列佐夫斯基(Rear Admiral Denis Berezovsky)少将绝对是个亲俄派，在他宣誓效忠克里米亚人民之后，尴尬不已的基辅当局立即解除了他的职务，并表示会对他的叛国罪行进行调查。
A YouTube video showed an anxious, sweating Admiral Berezovsky, eyes downcast, quickly muttering a statement, saying: “I, Berezovsky Denis, swear allegiance to the Crimean people and pledge to protect it, as required by the regulations.”
一段YouTube视频显示，焦虑的别列佐夫斯基少将满头冒汗，目光低垂，快速地低声念着声明，“本人，别列佐夫斯基·丹尼斯，宣誓效忠克里米亚人民，并承诺根据相关规定保护克里米亚。”
Secretary of State John Kerry will visit Kiev on Tuesday to show United States support for Ukraine, another senior United States official announced Sunday evening.
另一名美国高级官员在周日晚间宣布，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)将于周二访问基辅，以显示美国对乌克兰的支持。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany who spoke with Mr. Putin in a telephone call Sunday evening, accused Russia of violating the territorial integrity of Ukraine and breaking the Budapest Agreement of 1994 to respect the independence and sovereignty of Ukraine, according to a statement from Mrs. Merkel’s office.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的办公室发表声明称，默克尔周日晚间与普京进行了电话通话，她指责俄罗斯破坏乌克兰的领土完整，违背了1994年《布达佩斯协议》(Budapest Agreement)关于尊重乌克兰独立与主权的条款。
Mr. Putin, the statement said, agreed to Ms. Merkel’s suggestion to send a “fact finding mission,” possibly led by the Vienna-based Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to open a political dialogue.
前述声明称，普京赞成默克尔的提议，同意派遣一个“事实调查小组”，以便开展政治对话，该小组可能会由总部位于维也纳的欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)领导。
The chancellor has maintained strong, if not always warm, ties with the Russian president and has often taken a leading role in Europe’s dialogue with Moscow. However, Germany, together with Poland, has also worked to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union.
默克尔与俄罗斯总统保持着紧密联系，即便这样的联系并不总是友好。在欧洲与莫斯科的对话中，默克尔经常发挥主导作用。然而，德国还在与波兰携手努力，试图将乌克兰拉向欧盟。
The day began with Ukraine’s prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, telling reporters in English, “This is the red alert — this is not a threat, this is actually a declaration of war to my country,"a reference to approval by Russia’s Parliament on Saturday of the deployment of troops to any part of Ukraine where Moscow deems Russians to be in danger. Mr. Yatsenyuk warned that Ukraine was on the “brink of disaster” and asked the international community to stand by his government in Kiev. Mr. Kerry on Sunday condemned Russia for what he called an “incredible act of aggression” and threatened “very serious repercussions.” He suggested what many were saying as fact later in the day, that Russia was “trying to annex Crimea.” Britain, France and Germany joined the United States in suspending participation in preparatory meetings for the summit of the eight industrialized nations that Mr. Putin is to host in June in Sochi. Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius of France said on Europe 1 radio that Moscow must “realize that decisions have costs.” And Germany’s foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said that “we are on a very dangerous track of increasing tensions,” but that “it is still possible to turn around. A new division of Europe can still be prevented.”
当天，乌克兰总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)首先用英语告诉记者，“这是紧急状况。这不只是威胁，是实实在在地向我国宣战。”他这番话指涉的事件是俄罗斯议会下院(Russia’s Parliament)于周六批准俄罗斯在乌克兰任何地区部署军队，只要俄罗斯认为当地的俄语民众面临危险。亚采纽克警告称，乌克兰已经处于“灾难边缘”，并请求国际社会支持基辅政府。周日，克里谴责俄罗斯实施了“令人难以置信的侵略行为”，并威胁称这会带来“非常严重的后果”。当天晚些时候，他表示，许多人都说俄罗斯“正试图吞并克里米亚”，这种说法是真的。今年6月，普京将主持八个工业化国家(G8)在索契举行的峰会，但英、法、德三国已经加入了美国的行列，暂停参与峰会预备会议。法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)在欧洲一台广播频道(Europe 1)说，莫斯科必须“明白，任何决定都有代价”。德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)则表示，“局势日益紧张，我们走上了一条非常危险的道路”，但“目前仍有扭转局面的可能性。我们仍然能够阻止欧洲出现新的分裂”。
In Moscow, Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, responded dismissively. “It’s not a minus for Russia,” he said. “It will be a minus for the G-8.”
在莫斯科，普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)不屑地做了回应。“这并不是俄罗斯的损失，”他说，“这是G8的损失。”
Britain’s foreign secretary, William Hague, traveled to Kiev on Sunday evening to meet with the new government and express support, and he said that was is urging restraint from all parties.
周日晚上，英国外交大臣威廉·黑格(William Hague)来到基辅，以便与新政府见面并表达支持。他表示，他的目的是呼吁各方保持克制。
The NATO alliance held an emergency meeting in Brussels that was mostly designed to reassure members with Russian minorities, like the Baltics, and allies of Ukraine, like Poland, that NATO was ready to defend them. Ukraine is not a member of NATO, though it has some military and political cooperation with it.
北约(NATO)联盟在布鲁塞尔召开了一次紧急会议，此次会议主要是为了安抚波罗的海诸国等拥有俄罗斯少数民族的成员国，以及波兰等乌克兰盟友，向它们保证北约已经做好了保护它们的准备。乌克兰与北约有一些军事和政治合作，但却不是北约成员。
Before the NATO meeting, its secretary-general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, told Russia to stop its military activity and threats against Ukraine. “What Russia is doing now in Ukraine violates the principles of the United Nations Charter,” he said. “It threatens peace and security in Europe. Russia must stop its military activities and its threats.” 
北约召开会议之前，其秘书长安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)告诉俄罗斯，必须停止针对乌克兰的军事活动和威胁。“俄罗斯目前在乌克兰的所作所为违反了《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)的准则，”他说，“它对欧洲的和平与安全造成了威胁。俄罗斯必须停止其军事活动和威胁。”
In Crimea, where pro-Russian authorities have announced a referendum on autonomy on March 30, Ukrainian forces were under tremendous pressure. Hundreds of troops acting in the name of the provisional pro-Russian government in Crimea fanned out to persuade the thin Ukrainian forces there to give up their arms or swear allegiance to the new authorities, while the new government in Kiev tried to keep their loyalty while ordering them not to shoot unless under fire. The former Ukrainian chief of staff, Adm. Yuriy Ilyin, who left the post on Friday after a reported heart attack, told reporters in Crimea that Ukrainian soldiers unfortunately were “hostages” of the situation. Emotions were made more complicated by the strong ties between the two navies, since the Ukrainian one was formed in the division of the Russian Black Sea Fleet.
亲俄罗斯的克里米亚官方机构宣布将于3月30日进行自治公投，当地的乌克兰部队由此面临着巨大的压力。数百名士兵打着亲俄罗斯的克里米亚临时政府的旗号活动，他们分散开来，意图说服势单力薄的乌克兰部队交出武器，或是宣誓效忠于新政权。基辅的新政府则试图让克里米亚的乌克兰部队保持忠诚，同时又命令他们不要开火，除非受到攻击。前乌克兰总参谋长、海军上将尤里·伊雷因(Adm. Yuriy Ilyin)在克里米亚告诉记者，乌克兰士兵不幸地成为了这种局面的“人质”。伊雷因已于周五离职，据称是因为心脏病突发。乌克兰海军是从俄罗斯黑海舰队分离出来的，两支海军由此存在密切联系，人们对此事的感情也由此变得更加复杂。
In Crimea, fewer soldiers were visible on the streets. Some heavily armed soldiers without insignia had taken up positions around Ukrainian military bases, but did not try to enter them.
出现在克里米亚街头的士兵比以前有所减少。一些没有佩戴标志的重武装士兵已经在各个乌克兰军事基地周围严阵以待，但却没有试图进入这些基地。
In Sevastopol, pro-Russian “self-defense” forces blocked the entrances of the main Ukrainian naval headquarters. There was no sign of Russian troops, Ukrainian officers were at work inside and armed Ukrainians guards were on patrol behind the closed gates.
在塞瓦斯托波尔港，亲俄罗斯的“自卫”军队封锁了乌克兰海军主要驻地的入口。这里没有俄罗斯士兵的身影，乌克兰官员在室内工作，持有武器的乌克兰卫兵则在紧闭的大门后巡逻。
Pro-Russia demonstrators put up a banner reading: “Sevastopol without Fascism,” and urged Ukrainian officers to come over to their side rather than serve the “illegal fascist regime” in Kiev. The demonstrators pushed packs of cigarettes, candy and bottles of water through the gate for the Ukrainian guards.
亲俄罗斯的示威者拉起了一条横幅，上面写着“塞瓦斯托波尔不要法西斯”。他们敦促乌克兰官员加入自己的阵营，不要为基辅的“法西斯非法政权”效力。示威者将香烟、糖果和瓶装水塞进大门，交给乌克兰卫兵。
Outside, Sergei Seryogin, a pro-Russia activist, said, “They have to make a choice — they either obey the fascists in Kiev or the people.” Kiev, he said, “is illegal power” and should be ignored by all military and civil officials.
门外，亲俄罗斯活动人士谢尔盖·谢廖金(Sergei Seryogin)说，“他们必须作出选择——要么服从基辅的法西斯主义者，要么站在人民这边。”他说，基辅“政权是非法的”，所有的军官和文职官员都不应该理会它。
On Sunday, Russia kept up its propaganda campaign in defense of the takeover, citing undefined threats to Russian citizens and proclaiming “massive defections” of Ukrainian forces in Crimea, which Western reporters said appeared to be unfounded. The state-owned Itar-Tass news agency cited the Russian border guard agency claiming that 675,000 Ukrainians had fled to Russia in January and February and that there were signs of a “humanitarian catastrophe.”
周日，为了替自己的接管行动辩解，俄罗斯加大了宣传力度。他们宣称俄罗斯公民受到了不明威胁，并称克里米亚的乌克兰军队发生了“大规模叛变”。西方记者称，这种说法似乎没有事实根据。俄罗斯国有通讯社俄通社-塔斯社(Itar-Tass)援引俄罗斯边防机构的话说，1月和2月共有67.5万名乌克兰人逃到了俄罗斯，当地还出现了发生“人道主义灾难”的迹象。