MOSCOW — President Vladimir Putin announced on Sunday that the U.S. diplomatic mission in Russia would have to cut its staff by 755 employees by Sept. 1, a response to the new U.S. sanctions that escalated the tensions between Washington and Moscow.
莫斯科——普京总统周日宣布，美国驻俄罗斯的外交使团必须削减755名员工，这是对美国推出新的制裁措施导致华盛顿与莫斯科之间紧张局势升级的回应。
“Over 1,000 employees — diplomats and technical workers — worked and continue to work today in Russia; 755 will have to stop this activity,” he said, according to both a clip shown on state-run Rossiya 1 television and a transcript provided by the Interfax news agency.
官方电视台Rossiya1的视频和国际文传电讯社(Interfax)提供的讲话记录显示，普京说：“目前有1000多名员工——外交官和技术工作者——在俄罗斯工作；之后将有755人不得离岗了。”
Although the reduction in U.S. diplomatic staff had been announced on Friday, in response to a law passed in Congress last week expanding sanctions against Russia, the president’s statement was the first to confirm the large number of embassy personnel involved.
上周国会通过了扩大对俄制裁的法案，俄罗斯在周五就公布了美国外交官数量将被削减的回应措施，但普京的声明首次确认了受影响的使馆人员的庞大数量。
Speaking in a television interview on the Rossiya 1 network, Putin said that Russia had run out of patience waiting for relations with the U.S. to improve.
普京在接受Rossiya1电视台采访时说，他们等待俄美关系的改善已经等得不耐烦了。
“We waited for quite some time that maybe something will change for the better, had such hope that the situation will somehow change, but, judging by everything, if it changes, it will not be soon,” Putin said in the interview, according to Interfax news agency.
据国际文传电讯社的报道，普京在采访中说：“我们等了很长一段时间，觉得事情也许会好转，我们满心希望会有所变化，但是从各种情况来看，就算会有变化，那也不是很快就会有的。”
Although the initial news alerts in Russia said that Putin had ordered 755 Americans out of the country, the president had actually ordered an overall staff reduction. Not all of those leaving their posts would be Americans expelled from the country.
虽然俄罗斯最开始的新闻推送显示，普京已经下令驱逐755名美国人，但实际上，总统的命令是削减整体员工数量。并不是所有离岗的美国人都要被驱逐出境。
Russia has additional options available for further measures against U.S. interests, Putin warned, without going into details. But for the moment, he said, he is opposed to using them. “I hope it will not come to this,” he said.
普京警告说，俄罗斯还有更多的选择，可以采取进一步的行动来削弱美国的利益，不过他没有提供细节。他表示，就现在来说，他不同意使用这些手段。“我希望不会走到这一步，”他说。
Russia has been accused of interfering in the U.S. presidential election, including releasing hacked emails embarrassing to the campaign of Hillary Clinton.
俄罗斯被指控干涉美国总统大选，包括公布用黑客手段盗取的电子邮件，让希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选活动难堪。
Putin has denied any Russian interference in the U.S. election, saying that anti-Russian sentiment in the U.S. was being used to drive an internal political battle.
普京否认俄罗斯干涉美国大选，声称有人利用美国内部的反俄情绪开展政治内斗。
On Friday, the U.S. Embassy in Moscow issued a short statement in which the outgoing American ambassador, John F. Tefft, expressed “his strong disappointment and protest” over the cuts.
上周五，美国驻莫斯科大使馆发表了一份简短声明，即将离任的美国驻俄罗斯大使约翰·F·特福特(John F. Tefft)在声明中对人数削减表示了“极大的失望和抗议”。