MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Wednesday said that Moscow and Washington could find avenues of practical cooperation if the partnership were based on “mutual respect and pragmatism.”
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周三表示，如果莫斯科和华盛顿能够在“相互尊重和务实”的基础上建立伙伴关系，那么两国就可以找到务实合作的途径。
It may have seemed a frosty reception for John F. Tefft, the new American ambassador to Russia, who presented his credentials at a ceremony in the gilded St. Alexander Hall in the Kremlin, but given Mr. Putin’s more bellicose statements of late, the president’s remarks seemed almost diplomatic.
这对于新任美国驻俄罗斯大使约翰·F·特福特(John F. Tefft)来说，似乎是一个冷淡的欢迎。特福特在克里姆林宫金碧辉煌的圣亚历山大大厅(St. Alexander Hall)举行的仪式上呈递了国书，但鉴于不久前发表了更为强硬的声明，此番言论似乎几乎算是外交辞令。
“We are ready for practical cooperation with our American partners in all different areas, based on the principles of respect for each other’s interests, equality and nonintervention in domestic affairs,” Mr. Putin said, as he addressed Mr. Tefft and 14 other diplomats who presented their credentials during the ceremony.
普京在仪式上向特福特及其他14名递交国书的大使发表演讲时说，“我们已经准备好同美国伙伴，以尊重彼此利益、平等、互不干涉内政的原则，在各个领域开展务实合作。”
“We take the view that Russia and the United States bear special responsibility for maintaining international security and stability and combating global threats and challenges,” he said.
他说，“我们认为，俄罗斯和美国肩负着维护国际安全与稳定、对抗全球威胁与挑战的特殊责任。”
Mr. Tefft, a career diplomat who has served as ambassador to Ukraine, Georgia and Lithuania, has kept a low profile since arriving in Moscow in September, as relations between the United States and Russia have descended to their worst since the Cold War.
特福特是一名职业外交官，曾经担任美国驻乌克兰、格鲁吉亚及立陶宛大使。他自9月到达莫斯科以来，一直保持低调，在此期间，美国和俄罗斯的关系跌落到了冷战结束以来的最低点。
Mr. Putin has blamed the West for sparking the conflict in Ukraine and told political supporters on Monday that the United States sought to “subjugate” Russia.
普京批评西方国家引发了乌克兰冲突，并在周一告诉政治支持者，美国寻求“压制”俄罗斯。
On Tuesday, at an exhibition of armored personnel carriers, Mr. Putin observed that “you can do a lot more with weapons and politeness than just politeness,” a reference to the “polite” Russian soldiers who appeared in Crimea in early March.
周二，普京在参加装甲运兵车展览时表示，“带着武器的礼貌，比单纯的礼貌更有用，”他指的是今年3月初出现在克里米亚的“礼貌的”俄罗斯士兵。
The United States and the European Union have leveled punishing sanctions against Russia in response to its annexation of Crimea and subsequent sponsorship of separatists in a proxy war in southeastern Ukraine. At last week’s meeting of the Group of 20, Mr. Obama claimed the sanctions were working and foreign leaders vied to get in a good barb against Mr. Putin.
为了回应俄罗斯吞并克里米亚，以及后来在乌克兰东南部的冲突中，为分裂分子提供资助的行为，美国和欧盟对俄罗斯采取了惩罚性制裁。在上周的20国集团(Group of 20)会议中，奥巴马宣称制裁措施正在发挥作用，其他国家的领导人也在争相对普京出言抨击。
“I guess I’ll shake your hand,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada told Mr. Putin at the summit meeting. “But you need to get out of Ukraine.”
“我想我会跟你握手的，”加拿大总理斯蒂芬·哈珀(Stephen Harper)在峰会上告诉普京。“但是你得从乌克兰撤出来。”
Mr. Tefft’s mission is straightforward, said Matthew Rojansky, a Russia expert at the Wilson Center: Maintain an open line between Moscow and Washington.
威尔逊中心(Wilson Center)研究俄罗斯的专家马修·罗简斯基(Matthew Rojansky)说，特福特的任务很明确：在莫斯科和华盛顿之间维持一条沟通渠道。
“He is sent to do the classic, core job of an ambassador, to be a truly trusted channel of communications between the political leadership, as opposed to being sent as a statement of some kind,” Mr. Rojansky said in a telephone interview.
罗简斯基在电话采访中说，“他被派来从事典型而关键的大使工作，即作为政治领导层之间一个真正受信赖的沟通渠道，而不是被派来传达某种官方信息。”
Mr. Tefft’s predecessor, Michael McFaul, left Moscow in February following a stormy two-year term in which he aimed to engage with ordinary Russians through public events and social media, but was hounded by the state news media and accused of being sent to foment revolution.
今年2月，特福特的前任迈克尔·麦克福尔(Michael McFaul)离开了莫斯科。他的两年任期并不平静。他原本希望通过公开活动和社交媒体来接触俄罗斯百姓，但却饱受官方媒体烦扰，而且被指责是美国派来煽动革命的。
In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Tefft said it was “a privilege” to attend Wednesday’s ceremony, during which he shared a few words with Mr. Putin and posed quickly for a photo.
特福特在周三的声明中称，能参加周三的仪式，他深感“荣幸”。仪式期间，他与普京进行了简单交谈，并快速摆好姿势拍了照片。