MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin delivered a short but wide-ranging foreign policy speech on Tuesday, pledging to use Russia’s influence on the separatists in eastern Ukraine while also seeking to reassure his domestic audience that any fallout from the downing of a passenger jet over Ukraine could be contained.
莫斯科——周二，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)就外交政策发表了一篇简短但涉及内容颇广的讲话。他承诺要发挥俄罗斯对乌克兰东部分裂分子的影响力，同时又向俄罗斯民众表示，客机在乌克兰上空被击落所带来的负面影响是可控的。
“There is no direct military threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country at the moment,” Mr. Putin said in a 13-minute speech to Russia’s Security Council.
普京在对俄联邦安全会议(Security Council)发表的时长13分钟的讲话中说，“目前，我国的主权和领土完整未受到直接军事威胁。”
He went on to address directly for the first time the demand that Russia rein in the separatists who some Western nations accuse of shooting down Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 last Thursday.
一些西方国家认为，上周四马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班是被分裂分子击落的。各方要求俄罗斯对分裂分子进行约束，普京首次对这种要求做出了直接回应。
“We are being urged to use our influence with the militias in southeastern Ukraine,” he said in remarks broadcast repeatedly on state-run television. “We of course will do everything in our power, but that is not nearly enough.”
“有人敦促我们在乌克兰东南部对武装分子施加我们的影响力，”他在演讲中说。这段演讲在国家电视台上反复播放。“当然，我们会竭尽所能，但那样也根本不够。”
Mr. Putin criticized Ukraine for attacking Donetsk with tanks even as Malaysian officials arrived there to collect the flight recorders from the downed Boeing 777. “It is necessary to call on the Kiev authorities also to observe elementary norms of ethics,” he said in a belligerent tone. “At least to impose a cease-fire for a short time to hold an investigation.”
普京批评道，在马来西亚官员抵达顿涅茨克接收被击落的波音(Boeing)777型飞机的飞行记录仪时，乌克兰仍在用坦克攻击该地。“我们必须要求基辅官方遵守基本的道德准则，”他语气强硬。“至少暂时实施停火，以便展开调查。”
Russians had been buzzing about what Mr. Putin might say because, uncharacteristically, the meeting with his defense and security chiefs was publicized 24 hours in advance, prompting rumors that Mr. Putin might announce that a peacekeeping force was moving into Ukraine.
俄罗斯人纷纷猜测普京的讲话内容，因为不同寻常的是，普京与其国防和安全官员举行会议的消息已于24小时前发布。于是民众中产生的传言指，普京可能会宣布维和部队正在向乌克兰进发。
Instead, analysts said, by repeating long-held foreign policy positions and stressing again that Russia would cooperate with the investigation, the president seemed to want to lower the temperature caused by months of escalating pressure on Russia because of Ukraine.
然而分析人士称，普京重申了俄罗斯的一贯外交政策立场，并再次强调俄罗斯将配合调查，他这样似乎是想淡化矛盾，因为乌克兰事件，俄罗斯数月以来承受了越来越大的压力。
“The situation is extraordinary — the pressure on Russia is enormous,” said Fyodor Lukyanov, the editor of a foreign affairs journal. “Many people are hysterical, saying that the Ukraine war is a prelude to a war against Russia, and a rehearsal for regime change in Moscow. The speech was a signal to calm down a little bit domestically.”
“情况非同一般——俄罗斯受到了极大的压力，”一家外交事务杂志的主编费奥多尔·卢基扬诺夫(Fyodor Lukyanov)说。“许多人都有些歇斯底里，认为乌克兰战争是针对俄罗斯开战的序曲，也预示着莫斯科即将发生政权更迭。这次演讲告诉国内人民要镇定。”
Mr. Lukyanov and other experts suggested that Mr. Putin might be taking the first steps to distance the Kremlin from the separatists, which could not be done all at once after he whipped up popular support for the idea that Moscow would protect ethnic Russians wherever they lived and annexed Crimea last March.
卢基扬诺夫及其他专家表示，普京可能是在采取第一步举措，使克里姆林宫疏远分裂分子，这个问题不可能一次性解决，因为在此之前，普京曾表示莫斯科会保护俄罗斯族人，不管他们身居何处，这番表态为他赢得了民众的支持，而且俄罗斯还在今年3月吞并了克里米亚。
Mr. Putin has faced criticism from nationalists that he was abandoning Russians in Ukraine. The idea that “Putin would not betray national interests in a critical situation,” Aleksandr G. Dugin, a high-profile nationalist, wrote in a recent blog post, “is becoming less and less stable.”
民族主义者对普京提出批评，称他遗弃了乌克兰的俄罗斯族人。高调的民族主义者亚历山大·G·杜金(Aleksandr G. Dugin)最近在博客中写道，认为“普京在关键时刻不会背弃民族利益”的念头，“变得越来越不牢固”。
At the same time, the public, while apprehensive about the growing conflict next door, has wearied of it and blames both sides. “I think that there is a growing feeling that it has gone too far,” said Olga Kryshtanovskaya, a sociologist who studies Russia’s political elite. “The general feeling is similar to when people see children playing around without adult supervision, and suddenly they set the house on fire.”
民众对邻国日益严重的冲突感到不安，但同时也感到疲倦，认为双方都有责任。“我想公众越来越觉得事情有些过头了，”研究俄罗斯政治精英的社会学家奥尔加·克雷施塔诺夫斯卡娅(Olga Kryshtanovskaya)说。“大体感觉就像是，看着孩子们在没有家长看管的情况下玩耍，然后他们突然把房子烧了。”
Not everyone shares the view that Mr. Putin is seeking a resolution to the conflict. Ukraine on Tuesday again accused Moscow of massing troops at the border and arming the separatists.
但并不是每个人都认为普京正在寻求解决冲突的方法。乌克兰周二再次指责莫斯科陈兵边境，并为分裂分子提供武器。
Mr. Putin said that Russia was strong because it stood independent of international alliances — seemingly his response to the charge by Western leaders that it was becoming more isolated. He repeated that he was tired of the language of ultimatums directed at Russia and warned that the country was ready to face any threats from NATO mustering in Eastern Europe; the driving force behind his Ukraine policy has been to prevent it from joining NATO.
普京表示，俄罗斯之所以强大，因为它不依赖国际联盟——这似乎是他对西方领导人的指控的回应，西方领导人称俄罗斯越来越孤立。普京重申，他已经厌倦了外界针对俄罗斯最后通牒式的言论，并警告说，俄罗斯已经准备好迎接北约(NATO)在东欧做出的任何威胁。他还表示，其乌克兰政策背后的动因是阻止乌克兰加入北约。