MOSCOW — A Russian judge convicted Aleksei A. Navalny, an opposition politician and one of the Kremlin’s most charismatic critics, of fraud charges Wednesday, a move that bars him from running for the presidency next year.
莫斯科——周三，一名俄罗斯法官判决反对派政界人士和克里姆林宫最有魅力的批评家之一阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)欺诈罪名成立，令他无法参加明年的总统竞选。
President Vladimir Putin — in power since 1999, as president, then prime minister and again as president — is expected to seek a fourth term next year. Navalny was widely regarded as the only viable rival.
普京自1999年以来先当总统，再当总理，然后又当总统，预计明年他将寻求第四个任期。人们普遍认为，纳瓦尔尼是唯一对普京构成挑战的对手。
Navalny was given a five-year suspended prison sentence; fined 500,000 rubles, or about $8,400; and barred from participating in the election. He and his supporters dismissed the accusation — that he embezzled about $500,000 worth of timber from a state-owned company — as baseless and politically motivated.
纳瓦尔尼被判处5年监禁，罚款50万卢布（约合人民币5.8万元），并被禁止参加选举。他被控侵吞了一家国有公司的价值约50万美元（约合人民币350万元）的木材，纳瓦尔尼和他的支持者称这个指控毫无根据，背后有政治动机。
“We don’t recognize this verdict, and it will be overturned,” Navalny told journalists in a provincial courtroom in Kirov, nearly 600 miles east of Moscow. “I have the right to take part in elections, according to the Constitution, and I will fight for that.”
“我们不承认这一裁决，它会被推翻，”纳瓦尔尼在莫斯科以东近600英里的基洛夫市的一所州法院对记者说。“根据宪法，我有权参加选举，我会为此而战。”
The lengthy legal ruling was similar to a judgment issued against Navalny in 2013, which also resulted in a five-year suspended sentence. That verdict was overturned by the European Court of Human Rights, and Russia’s supreme court ordered a new trial.
这份冗长的法律裁决和2013年纳瓦尔尼遭受的一项判决很相似，当时他被判处五年缓刑。欧洲人权法院推翻了那个裁决，俄罗斯最高法院下令重新进行审判。
Despite the earlier conviction, Navalny was allowed to run for the mayor of Moscow, garnering 27.2 percent of the vote, just short of the threshold to send him into a runoff against the Kremlin-sponsored candidate. The Kremlin probably wants to avoid a repeat of that situation in the race for the presidency.
尽管有先前裁决，纳瓦尔尼还是被允许参加莫斯科市长竞选，他获得了27.2%的投票，只差一点点就能和克里姆林宫支持的候选人对决了。克里姆林宫可能想避免这种情况在总统竞选中重演。
Navalny’s spokeswoman, Kira Yarmysh, said via Facebook that they would appeal the verdict and file complaints with Russia’s constitutional court and the European Court of Human Rights.
纳瓦尔尼的发言人基拉·亚米希(Kira Yarmysh)在Facebook上表示，他们将对这个裁决提起上诉，并向俄罗斯宪法法院和欧洲人权法院提交投诉。
The new verdict was, word for word, almost identical to the one in 2013.
这份新的判决和2013年的那个几乎一字不差。
Navalny said on Twitter that a lawmaker had asked prosecutors to investigate Navalny’s new campaign headquarters in St. Petersburg. He said he would try to keep the office open but that his campaign would continue even without one.
纳瓦尔尼在Twitter上说，有个议员要求检察官调查他在圣彼得堡新成立的竞选总部。他说会尽量保住那个办公室，但即使没有办公室，他也会继续开展竞选活动。
At the final court hearing Friday, Navalny said that regardless of the verdict, he was determined to proceed with his presidential bid.
在上周五的庭审最后，纳瓦尔尼说，无论判决如何，他都决心继续竞选总统。