PARIS — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is known for a peculiar muscular pose, carefully cultivated over the past 14 years. He shows it off at news conferences or at his desk, standing up or sitting down, not to mention bare-chested on horseback. It’s not hard to read the body language: Mr. Putin likes a manly image.
巴黎——俄罗斯总统普京以一种特别的硬汉姿势著称，他在过去14年里精心打造这种姿势，并在新闻发布会或自己的办公桌旁展示出来，无论是站着还是坐着，更不用说裸着上身骑在马背上的时候了。解读他的肢体语言并不难：普京喜欢展示出男子汉形象。
That’s an important starting point for his recent extraordinary remarks about Hillary Rodham Clinton. Asked by two French journalists on June 4 about her comparison of Russia’s seizure of Crimea to Hitler’s aggression in the 1930s, Mr. Putin scoffed. “It’s better not to argue with women,” he said. “When people push boundaries too far, it’s not because they are strong but because they are weak. But maybe weakness is not the worst quality for a woman.”
对于他最近谈到希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)时出语惊人，这是一个重要的出发点。6月4日两名法国记者问普京，希拉里把俄罗斯吞并克里米亚与希特勒在20世纪30年代的侵略之举相提并论，对此他有何看法，普京嗤之以鼻。“最好不要跟女人争论，”他说。“有些人做事太过分，这不是因为他们强大，而是因为他们软弱。但是软弱可能也并非女人最糟糕的品质。”
Leaving aside the blatant sexism, Mr. Putin strayed into what for him is potentially dangerous territory. If pushing boundaries too far is a sign of weakness, then what to say about Mr. Putin’s own policies in Ukraine? When Russia annexes Crimea, when it gives tacit support to attacks by pro-Russian separatists on Ukrainian border posts, isn’t that — literally — about testing the frontiers of a neighboring sovereign state? Does that make it muscle-flexing by a weak man?
撇开公然的性别歧视不说，普京误入了一个对他而言存在潜在危险的领域。如果行事过分是软弱的表现，那么普京自己的对乌政策又算什么呢？俄罗斯吞并克里米亚，暗中支持亲俄分裂势力在乌克兰攻击边防哨所，这不就是真的在测试毗邻主权国家边界这个分界线吗​​？这算不算是软弱者炫耀武力呢？
There’s something about Mr. Putin’s body language that draws attention, and it’s not always flattering. President Obama once described his “slouch” as the behavior of the “bored kid at the back of the classroom.” Mrs. Clinton has described him as a “tough guy with a thin skin.” Things got even more personal in 2008 when she said Mr. Putin, as an ex-K.G.B. man, couldn’t possibly have a soul. He retorted by saying that “at a minimum, heads of state should have a head.”
普京引人注目的肢体语言是有一些特点，但并不总是那么良好。奥巴马总统曾经描述他“无精打采”的举止，像是“坐在教室后面的无聊孩子”。希拉里曾形容他是“敏感的硬汉”。2008年时，他们的言语交锋变得更像个人攻击，希拉里说，普京作为一名前克格勃成员，不可能有灵魂。普京反驳说，“国家元首至少应该有一个头。”
“Hard men present hard choices — none more so than President Vladimir Putin,” Mrs. Clinton wrote in her new book, “Hard Choices.”
“硬汉带来艰难抉择——这种情况莫过于普京总统了，”希拉里在她的新书《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)中写道。
Mr. Putin’s behavior with other leaders is often seen as a clue to the quality of his personal relationships with them. In theory, he and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany should have an excellent rapport; each speaks the other’s language, and the two countries have strong economic ties. And yet twice (most recently in the thick of the Ukrainian crisis), well aware of Ms. Merkel’s deep-seated fear of dogs, he let his big, black Labrador Koni into the room with her, even sniff her legs, and watched with a peculiarly passive expression.
普京对其他国家领导人的举止往往被视为一个线索，显示他们之间个人关系如何。从理论上讲，他和德国总理默克尔应该拥有上佳的默契；因为他们都能讲对方的语言，而且俄德之间有很强的经济联系。然而普京明知知默克尔非常怕狗，却两次（最近一次是乌克兰深陷危机的时候）让自己又黑又大的拉布拉多犬科尼(Koni)进入她所在的房间，甚至嗅闻她的腿，普京自己则带着特别无所谓的表情在一旁观看。
On the occasions when he and Mr. Obama have sat together for photographers, the chill has been almost visible. Mr. Obama denies that he has a bad relationship with the Russian president, but it is clearly not a good one. For one thing, relations between the United States and Russia are strained. For another, Mr. Obama is a good six inches taller than Mr. Putin, an advantage probably not lost on someone who seems to put such stock in projecting an image of power.
当他和奥巴马坐在一起，让摄影师拍照的时候，寒意似乎已经变得肉眼可见。奥巴马否认自己与普京关系不好，但两人关系显然也算不上融洽。首先，美国和俄罗斯之间的关系就很紧张。其次，奥巴马比普京高了足足6英寸，对于像普京那么看重权力形象的人来说，这种身高优​​势不可能视而不见。
Then again, Mr. Obama is not exactly pals with any of his fellow leaders. His cool demeanor is both admired and resented by his international counterparts, some of whom remember — not always fondly — the back-rubbing bonhomie of his predecessor, George W. Bush. It was, after all, Mr. Bush who in 2001 took the measure of Mr. Putin’s soul, and found him to be “very straightforward and trustworthy.”
当然，奥巴马与其他国家的领导人未必是好朋友。他们对奥巴马的淡然风度是既钦佩又憎恨，其中一些人还记得——并不总是愉快地记得——其前任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)勾肩搭背的亲切姿态。毕竟是布什在2001年掂量了一下普京灵魂的分量，发现他“非常直率，值得信赖”。
So much for the importance of personal relations. Having established this rapport, Mr. Bush went on to invade Iraq and push vigorously for Ukraine and Georgia to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, two moves that tripped up relations not only with Russia, but also with France and Germany.
个人关系的重要性也不过尔尔。布什在建立了融洽和谐的个人关系之后，仍然会入侵伊拉克，积极推动乌克兰和格鲁吉亚加入北大西洋公约组织(North Atlantic Treaty Organization)，这两个举动不仅让美国与俄罗斯交恶，也导致它和法、德之间关系变僵。
In the interview aired on French television, Mr. Putin reiterated his bottom-line view that the prospect of NATO membership for Ukraine, and in particular the strategic peninsula of Crimea, was something Russia wasn’t ready to accept as the crisis escalated last winter.
在法国电视台播放的采访中，普京重申了他的底线：去年冬天乌克兰危机升级的时候，俄罗斯不准备接受乌克兰加入北约，特别是具有战略意义的克里米亚半岛加入北约。
In the end, international diplomacy has little to do with personal relations — be they warm and fuzzy, or cold and muscular — and everything to do with perceived national interests, timing and capability. But that doesn’t mean that leaders shouldn’t watch their language.
最后，国际外交和个人关系基本上无关——无论个人关系是温暖柔和还是又冷又硬——而是和人们意识中的国家利益、时机以及能力息息相关。但是，这并不意味着领导者不应该注意自己的语言。