MOSCOW — Several weeks before pro-Russian forces intervened in Crimea, President Vladimir V. Putin won another important victory. On Jan. 24, the social network VKontakte, with its 60 million daily users, came under the control of businessmen allied with the Kremlin.
莫斯科——在亲俄势力插手克里米亚局势之前的几周，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)赢得了另一场重要胜利。1月24日，与克里姆林宫结盟的商人掌控了社交网络平台VKontakte，该网站每日有6000万名用户使用。
VKontakte is Russia’s Facebook and the largest independent medium in the country. The founder of VKontakte, Pavel Durov, had long resisted all pressures to step down. But he sold his 12 percent share of the company to Ivan Tavrin, a partner of the pro-Putin oligarch Alisher Usmanov, and is leaving.
VKontakte相当于俄罗斯的Facebook，是该国最大的独立媒介，其创始人帕维尔·杜罗夫(Pavel Durov)长期以来顶住了各种压力拒绝辞职。但他现在已将公司12%的股份卖给了伊万·塔夫林(Ivan Tavrin)——支持普京的寡头阿利舍尔·乌斯马诺夫(Alisher Usmanov)的合作伙伴。杜罗夫将离开公司。
The brilliant young businessman was unlucky in his timing. Before the Olympics, the state wanted to control the only independent platform where Russians could communicate with one another and organize. If the government had issued a special decree allowing for the tapping of the phones of journalists in Sochi, how could it ignore VKontakte? And not having an independent social network has also proved convenient for a Kremlin on its war footing.
这位杰出的年轻商人时运不济。冬奥会之前，政府想要控制这个唯一的独立平台，俄罗斯人可以通过它进行交流，组织活动。既然政府曾颁布特别法令，允许官方窃听索契的记者的电话，那它怎么会忽略VKontakte呢？事实证明，没有独立的社交网络平台，对处于备战状态的克里姆林宫非常有利。
VKontakte took off in 2006. While a student at St. Petersburg State University, Mr. Durov founded the largest student web forum in Russia. In 2006, the project was noticed by his friend Vyacheslav Mirilashvili. Mr. Mirilashvili had graduated from Tufts University, where he caught his first glimpse of Facebook, which had just been launched on the nearby Harvard campus. Together with another friend, Mr. Durov and Mr. Mirilashvili set about implementing Mark Zuckerberg’s ideas for the Russian user. The code was written by Mr. Durov and his brother Nikolai.
VKontakte从2006年开始广受欢迎。杜罗夫在圣彼得堡国立大学(St. Petersburg State University)就读期间，创立了俄罗斯最大的学生网络论坛。2006年，杜罗夫的朋友维亚切斯拉夫·米里拉什维利(Vyacheslav Mirilashvili)注意到了这个网站。米里拉什维利毕业于塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)，他在读大学期间首次见到了Facebook，这个网站是在邻近的哈佛大学(Harvard University)校园创建的。杜罗夫、米里拉什维利和另一名朋友一起，着手为俄罗斯用户实现了马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的想法。杜罗夫和哥哥尼古拉(Nikolai)编写了代码。
Mr. Durov incorporated into the social network his libertarian vision of the Internet as a space of total freedom for the distribution of information. Copyright laws in Russia were blurry, and VKontakte set up one of the largest hosting services in Europe, where users could upload any content they desired.
杜罗夫将自己崇尚自由意志的网络愿景融入了这个社交网络平台，他认为网络应该是一个完全自由的信息传播空间。俄罗斯的版权法非常模糊，VKontakte提供了欧洲规模最大的主机托管服务之一，用户可以上传他们想传的任何内容。
Until December 2011, Durov enjoyed the favor of the Kremlin’s internal powerbroker, Vladislav Surkov. But after the parliamentary elections that month, the Moscow middle class declared the victory of Mr. Putin’s party to be a fraud, and 150,000 people came out to protest on Bolotnaya Square. Mr. Durov’s patron resigned, and VKontakte began receiving persistent calls from the prosecutor’s office and Russia’s security service, the F.S.B., requesting that it shut down an anti-Putin online group called “United Russia — The Party of Crooks and Thieves” and other groups associated with the opposition. Mr. Durov replied to a summons to the prosecutor’s office with a picture of a husky dressed in a hoodie and sticking out its tongue.
在2011年12月之前，杜罗夫一直受到克里姆林宫内的权力掮客弗拉迪斯拉夫·苏尔科夫(Vladislav Surkov)的支持。但12月的议会选举结束后，莫斯科的中产阶级宣称普京所属政党的胜利是一场骗局，15万人来到沼泽广场(Bolotnaya Square)举行抗议。杜罗夫的后台辞职了，于是，VKontakte开始不断收到检察机关及俄罗斯安全机构联邦安全局(FSB)的电话，要求网站关闭名为“统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)——骗子和盗贼的政党”的反普京讨论组，以及其他与反对派有关的讨论组。杜罗夫用一张图片回应了检察机关的传唤：一只身穿连帽衫的哈士奇吐着舌头。
He came to be seen by the Kremlin as an uncontrollable libertarian, prone to eccentric displays like tossing 5000-ruble notes out of the window and showing the finger to representatives of shareholders trying to bring VKontakte under the control of Mail.ru Group.
克里姆林宫开始将他视为一个难以控制的自由分子，经常会做出一些匪夷所思的举动，比如他会将5000卢布的钞票扔出窗外，向试图让Mail.ru集团来控制VKontakte的股东代表竖中指等等。
The investment fund United Capital Partners exploited a conflict between Mr. Durov and his partners to acquire a significant stake in the company. The deal was orchestrated by Igor Sechin, Mr. Putin’s right-hand man. Then the fund requested reams of financial documents, insisting VKontakte was earning too little profit. The state prosecutor launched a criminal investigation of Mr. Durov, claiming he had run over a policeman in his Mercedes. He left Russia.
投资基金联合资本伙伴公司(United Capital Partners)利用杜罗夫与合伙人的冲突，获得了该公司相当大一部分股权。此次交易是由普京的得力助手伊格尔·谢钦(Igor Sechin)精心安排的。然后，投资基金索取了大量财务资料，并坚称VKontakte的盈利太少。公诉人对杜罗夫开展了刑事调查，说他开奔驰车撞倒了一名警察。他离开了俄罗斯。
The investigation was closed a few months later, as suddenly as it was launched, and Mr. Durov returned to St. Petersburg and decided to sell his shares, not so much because of intimidation but because he was inspired to use the profits to develop a new product: a mobile messenger called Telegram.
调查在几个月后结束了，如同开始时那样突然。杜罗夫回到了圣彼得堡，决定出售自己的股份，他这样做并非出于害怕恫吓，而是决定利用这些收入来开发一个新产品：一款名叫Telegram的移动消息软件。
According to several sources, Mr. Durov received an unequivocal hint from his shareholders that the time had come to close the deal and retire before the Olympics began. Mr. Durov’s shares in VKontakte were valued at $250 million to $300 million. The VKontakte founder decided it would be simpler to leave the social network and take up the challenge of starting Telegram, which has been gaining up to 400,000 new users a day.
根据几个信源提供的消息，杜罗夫的股东曾明确告诉他，他要在冬奥会开始前关闭交易并退休。杜罗夫持有的VKontakte股份大概价值在2.5亿美元（约合15.3亿元人民币）到3亿美元之间。杜罗夫认为，离开这个社交网络，接受创立Telegram的挑战应该更加容易，Telegram每天会增加40万名新用户。
Meanwhile, the Kremlin’s control over traditional media and social media is tightening. In January, Parliament passed a law allowing it to quickly block any undesirable website. And there’s no reason to assume that the stranglehold over independent media will be relaxed now that the Olympics are over.
同时，克里姆林宫对传统媒体和社交媒体的控制变得更严厉了。1月，议会通过法律，允许克里姆林宫迅速关闭所有不喜欢的网站。而且也没有理由认为，冬奥会结束后，当局就会放松对独立媒体的管制。
Media owners have also begun to restrict the activities of editors. And the Kremlin has intensified its propaganda. The state news agency RIA Novosti and the Russia Today channel merged into a single structure. The former top manager has started publishing opinion articles on sensitive topics that diverge from the official government position. Now the agency is led by Dmitry Kiselev, an odious talk show host infamous for his suggestion that “gays’ hearts should be incinerated in ovens.”
媒体老板也开始约束编辑人员的活动，克里姆林宫也加强了宣传力度。国家通讯社俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)和今日俄罗斯(Russia Today)合并成了同一个机构。前高管开始就敏感话题发表与政府立场背道而驰的评论文章。如今，通讯社由令人厌恶的脱口秀主持人德米特里·基谢廖夫(Dmitry Kiselev)领导，此人曾表示，“同性恋的心应该扔到炉子里烧成灰。”