OXFORD, England — Russian school textbooks praise Peter the Great as an industrializer and cultural visionary who turned his country into a European power. Russia became feared but also respected by its neighbors, and Peter is the official czar-hero of Russian history.
英国牛津——俄罗斯学校的教科书赞扬彼得大帝(Peter the Great)是工业化的先行者和富有远见的文化先驱，把他的国家变成了欧洲强国。在邻国眼中，俄罗斯变成了一个令人敬畏的国家，彼得大帝也成了俄罗斯历史上名正言顺的沙皇英雄。
Vladimir V. Putin himself is much more like another czar, Nicholas I, who stumbled into military conflict with the British and French and rejected calls for the basic reforms needed to enable Russia to compete with the world powers of the day. Nicholas had a cramped perspective and arrogant personality. Always attentive to the armed forces and the secret services, he overlooked the broader necessity to modernize Russia’s economy and society. His country paid dearly for this when his army was humbled in the Crimean War of 1853-56.
弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)本人却更像另一位沙皇尼古拉一世(Nicholas I)，后者陷入了对抗英法的军事冲突，还回绝了让俄罗斯开展必要的改革，从而和当时的世界强国一决高下的呼声。尼古拉一世目光狭隘、性格傲慢。他总是关注武装部队和特务机构，却忽略了俄罗斯经济和社会实现现代化的更广泛需求。当他的军队在1853年到1856年的克里米亚战争(Crimean War)中落败时，俄罗斯为此付出了沉重的代价。
Russian foreign policy under Mr. Putin displays an equally gross lack of foresight. On Ukraine, he made much of the threat to ethnic Russians from West Ukrainian “fascists” who were influencing political developments in Kiev. It is true that Ukraine’s right-wing coalition known as the Right Sector includes some decidedly insalubrious extremists. But not every partisan who waged the war of independence against the Soviet Army in the 1950s was a fascist; and by seizing the Crimean peninsula, Mr. Putin has set up a classic temptation for Russian patriots to extend to the whole of Ukraine.
普京治下的俄罗斯外交政策也同样显得匮乏远见。在乌克兰，他对俄罗斯族人大肆宣扬来自乌克兰西部的“法西斯分子”构成的威胁，后者正对基辅的政治走向产生影响。名为“正义部”(Right Sector)的乌克兰右翼联盟中，毫无疑问存在一些肮脏的极端分子。不过，在上世纪50年代发起独立战争反抗苏联军队的游击队员，并非每个人都是法西斯分子；普京夺取克里米亚半岛的举动，会令俄罗斯的爱国者产生占据整个乌克兰的遐想。
One-eighth of the Crimean population, moreover, consists of Tatars, whom Joseph Stalin deported to Central Asia in 1944 and who were allowed to return to their native peninsula only in the late 1980s. They largely abstained from voting in the recent referendum on incorporation in the Russian Federation. Most are Muslims, and some of their young people could now become recruits for a jihad against Russian imperialism.
不仅如此，克里米亚有八分之一的人口是鞑靼人，他们在1944年被约瑟夫·斯大林(Joseph Stalin)放逐到中亚，在上世纪80年代才获准返回世代居住的半岛。在最近并入俄联邦的公投中，鞑靼人基本上弃权了。他们当中的大部分人是穆斯林，其中一些年轻人现在可能会被招募参加圣战，反抗俄罗斯帝国主义。
By snatching 4.5 percent of Ukrainian territory, Mr. Putin has performed the unlikely feat of wrecking his own dream of forming a “Eurasian Union” under Russia’s leadership. He once planned to keep President Viktor F. Yanukovych as his puppet ruler in Kiev. Now Mr. Yanukovych is a refugee somewhere in Russia, and Ukraine’s government is strengthening cooperation with the European Union.
普京夺走了乌克兰4.5%的领土，以此完成了一件艰巨的任务：亲手毁灭了自己组建以俄罗斯为首的“欧亚联盟”的梦想。普京曾计划让乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)作为傀儡，继续在基辅统治乌克兰。现在，亚努科维奇正在俄罗斯某地当难民，而乌克兰政府正在加强与欧盟的合作。
This is a disaster for Mr. Putin’s foreign policy. Although he is concealing this from the public through his control of TV channels, he will not be able to fool all the people all of the time.
这对普京的外交政策是一场灾难。尽管他通过对电视频道的控制，在公众面前掩盖了一点，他肯定无法自始至终地愚弄所有人。
His biggest miscalculation is about Russia itself. The emergency over Ukraine has jolted the Russian superrich to ship even more of their wealth to the West. Up to $70 billion has left the country this year alone.
他最大的失算就是对俄罗斯本身失算了。乌克兰的危局让俄罗斯的超级富豪们震惊不已，他们纷纷把更多的财富转移到西方。单单是今年，就有700亿美元（约合4400亿元人民币）的资产流出俄罗斯。
Mr. Putin prided himself on bringing stability after the tumultuous years of Boris N. Yeltsin’s rule. Capital flight on this scale tells a different story. The World Bank is sounding the alarm about a halving of Russia’s growth rate if Mr. Putin continues with his Ukrainian obsession.
普京在鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)多年统治的动荡过后，给俄罗斯带来了稳定，他对此相当自豪。然而如此严重的资本外逃，却显示了截然不同的现实。世界银行(World Bank)发出了警告，称如果普京继续入侵乌克兰，世行就会把俄罗斯的增长预期调低一半。
Just as worrisome for the Russian president should be the phenomenon of human flight. Hundreds of thousands of the brightest young Russians have packed their bags and left for Silicon Valley, New York and London. This has been happening since the collapse of Communism, but Mr. Putin has done nothing to arrest the trend.
同样值得普京担心现象的还有人才流失。已有数以十万计的俄罗斯青年才俊收拾行囊前往硅谷、纽约和伦敦。自从共产主义垮台后，这种现象就在不断发生，不过普京没有采取任何措施遏制这种趋势。
Young people leave out of exasperation with bully-boy administrators and violent entrepreneurs. They want to live in a meritocracy where talent alone is what counts. Their model is Google’s Sergey Brin, not the seedy ministers and businessmen of Mr. Putin’s court.
这些青年出走的原因是，横行霸道的执政者和依仗暴力的企业家令他们十分愤怒。他们想生活在一个唯才是举，人们只在乎才能的国家。他们的榜样是谷歌公司(Google)的谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)，而不是普京御前嘴脸丑恶的部长和商人们。
For the expatriates to want to go back to Russia, things have to change — and this is the true test of Mr. Putin’s effectiveness as a president. First elected in 2000, he has done little to clean up corruption. He spectacularly punished a handful of so-called oligarchs, only to redistribute their fortunes to political cronies. The rule of law is feebly enforced whenever the men of power see their interests at risk.
要想让离开俄罗斯的人愿意回国，就必须要做出转变。这才是普京作为总统的执政能力所面临的真正考验。自2000年首次当选以来，普京在清除腐败方面几乎毫无建树。他招摇地惩处了一些所谓的寡头，不过只是把这些人的财富重新分配给了自己的政治亲信而已。只要当权者看到自己的利益受到威胁，法治的执行就会软弱无力。
Nor has Mr. Putin done enough to diversify and open up Russia’s economy. For years — indeed, since Mikhail S. Gorbachev’s perestroika period — Russian and foreign economists have highlighted the need for the country to move beyond its reliance on the petrochemical exports. Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev has always understood this, but he lacked the authority to rectify the situation.
普京在开放俄罗斯经济、实现经济多元化方面也做得不够。多年以来——实际上是从米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)实施体制改革以来——俄罗斯国内和海外的经济学家都在强调，俄罗斯必须摆脱对石化出口的依赖。俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)对这一点向来心知肚明，不过他缺乏扭转局势的大权。
Russia needs to pump out high-technology goods, not just oil and gas. And the rival power it ought to keep in sight is not to the west but to the south. Since the mid-1970s, China’s rulers have prioritized the diversification of their economy. This would be the minimal requirement to ensure Russia’s status as a Eurasian power. Instead, the Chinese are set to become a superpower while the Russians fall away.
俄罗斯需要大量出口高科技产品，而不只是石油和天然气。它应当关注的竞争对手不在西方，而在南方。自上世纪70年代以来，中国执政者就开始重视经济的多元化。要想让俄罗斯维持欧亚强国的地位，最起码要做到这一点。而就在俄罗斯走向没落之时，中国已经走上了成为超级大国的道路。
Moscow’s opportunities to compete have always depended on cooperation with Western states with advanced technology. Mr. Putin’s impulsive action in tiny Crimea has rendered this a distant prospect. He has lost his place at the Group of 8 industrialized countries.
俄罗斯开展竞争的机遇一向有赖于和西方各国在尖端技术上的合作。普京在小小的克里米亚做出的冲动之举，让这种合作的前景变得遥不可及。普京已经失去了在发达国家组成的八国集团里的位置。
There was always skepticism about Mr. Putin’s good intentions in Eastern Europe; now there is outright hostility. Even Germany’s reliance on Russian gas imports has not stopped Chancellor Angela Merkel from rebuking Mr. Putin. The European Union is actively considering how to wean itself off dependency on Russian fuel.
普京对东欧各国的好意总是受到怀疑；现在，那里甚至表现出了公开的敌意。尽管德国极度依赖从俄罗斯进口天然气，但是该国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)仍然对普京进行了抨击。欧盟正在积极考虑该如何摆脱对俄罗斯进口燃料的依赖。
Mr. Putin started the year with a display of Russian “soft power” at the Sochi Winter Olympics, where the closing ceremony presented a country of stylish, inoffensive sport and culture. The very next day, he sent troops to Crimea. And now the World Bank suggests Russia may suffer economic recession by the end of the year.
今年年初，普京在索契冬奥会上显示了俄罗斯的“软实力”，冬奥会的闭幕式展现了一个时尚、善意的体育和文化大国。然而就在第二天，普京就派兵进入了克里米亚。世界银行现在表示，俄罗斯在今年年底时可能会遭遇经济衰退。