WARSAW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia will not be attending the 70th anniversary commemoration of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camps, his spokesman told a Moscow radio station on Tuesday. The spokesman said that the president’s schedule was too packed and that he was not invited.
华沙——周二，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的发言人告诉一家莫斯科电台，普京本人将不会出席奥斯维辛集中营解放70周年的纪念活动。这位发言人表示，总统的日程排得太满，而且他也没有受到邀请。
Pawel Sawicki, chief spokesman for the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum in southern Poland, said Mr. Putin had no reason to feel snubbed since no heads of state were specifically invited to the Jan. 27 event.
位于波兰南部的奥斯维辛-比克瑙纳粹集中营国家博物馆(Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum)的首席发言人帕维尔·萨维茨基(Pawel Sawicki)表示，普京没有理由觉得自己受到了冷落，因为他们并未专门邀请任何国家的元首参加1月27日的活动。
“What we did was send notice to the embassies of all European Union nations as well as to the countries that have contributed to the museum, which includes Russia, asking how many people they would be sending and who would be the head of their delegation,” Mr. Sawicki said.
萨维茨基说，“我们只是给所有欧盟国家的大使馆，以及曾对本博物馆有贡献的国家——其中包括俄罗斯——发送了通知函，询问他们会派多少人前来，还有谁将担任代表团的负责人。”
The answer that the museum received from the Russian Embassy in Warsaw, he said, was that its ambassador to Poland would lead their delegation.
他还表示，俄罗斯驻华沙大使馆的答复是，他们的代表团将由其驻波兰大使带领。
Mr. Putin’s absence, though, will avoid a potentially awkward scene. Relations between the two nations have been chilly since the outbreak of the Ukraine conflict in late 2013. Poland has been especially outspoken in calling for more sanctions against the Russian government over the crisis.
不过，普京的缺席将避免一个潜在的尴尬场面。自2013年底乌克兰冲突爆发以来，两国的关系一直比较冷淡。波兰直言不讳地呼吁就乌克兰危机对俄罗斯政府施加更多制裁。
Mr. Putin did attend the 60th anniversary ceremonies in 2005. Soviet troops liberated the Auschwitz concentration camp and the nearby Auschwitz II-Birkenau concentration and death camps in 1945. More than one million people lost their lives in the camps, the overwhelming majority of them Jews, but the victims also included thousands of Russian prisoners of war.
普京在2005年出席了60周年纪念活动。苏联军队于1945年解放了奥斯维辛集中营及附近的奥斯维辛-比克瑙死亡集中营。逾100万人在这几座营地中丧命，其中绝大多数是犹太人，但也包括数以千计的俄罗斯战俘。
The 70th anniversary ceremonies are expected to draw dozens of foreign dignitaries, heads of state and royalty. A preliminary list of attendees includes President François Hollande of France, President Joachim Gauck of Germany and President Heinz Fischer of Austria. King Philippe of Belgium, King Willem-Alexander of Holland and Crown Prince Frederik of Denmark will also attend.
此次70周年纪念典礼将会吸引数十名外国贵宾、国家元首及王室成员前来参加。初步的出席者名单中包括法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)、德国总统约阿希姆·高克(Joachim Gauck)及奥地利总统海因茨·菲舍尔(Heinz Fischer)。比利时国王菲利普(King Philippe)、荷兰国王威廉-亚历山大(King Willem-Alexander)和丹麦王储弗雷德里克(Crown Prince Frederik)也会出席活动。