MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin used a visit on Sunday by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to call for a return to normal relations with Europe, brushing aside the widespread boycott by Western leaders of the huge Victory Day parade on Red Square a day earlier.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)利用德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)周日访问俄罗斯之际，呼吁俄罗斯与欧洲恢复正常关系，闭口不谈前一天在红场举行的盛大胜利日阅兵式遭到西方领导人广泛抵制的事实。
“We do face some problems today, but the sooner we can end their negative impact on our relations, the better it will be,” Mr. Putin told Ms. Merkel at the start of their talks, after both leaders laid large bouquets of red flowers on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier along the Kremlin wall.
在向克里姆林宫墙的无名战士墓敬献巨大的红色花圈后，普京和默克尔举行了会谈。普京在一开始告诉默克尔，“我们如今确实面临一些问题，这些问题对我们的关系构成负面影响，应该越快解决越好。”
Ms. Merkel and other Western leaders avoided the colossal official outpouring marking the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II. The parade included 16,000 soldiers marching through Red Square, along with the first new Russian tank in decades, the T-14 Armata, and three updated Yars intercontinental ballistic missiles. (An Armata stalled in the square during a practice run on Thursday, but all went smoothly during the real event.)
默克尔和其他西方领导人回避了纪念二战结束70周年的大型官方活动。由1.6万名士兵组成的阅兵方阵穿过红场，在阅兵式上亮相的还有俄罗斯近几十年来的首款新坦克T-14阿玛塔(T-14 Armata)，以及三种新版亚尔斯(Yars)洲际弹道导弹。（一辆阿玛塔坦克在周四的彩排中熄火，但在正式活动中一切顺利）。
The guests of honor were Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Pranab Mukherjee of India. Their nations were among 10 countries with military contingents in the parade. Most of the others were former Soviet states. The presidents of Egypt, South Africa, Cuba and Venezuela were also among those attending.
参加阅兵式的贵宾包括中国国家主席习近平和印度总统普拉纳布·慕克吉(Pranab Mukherjee)。共有10个国家派部队参与阅兵式，其中包括中印两国。其他大多数是前苏联国家。埃及、南非、古巴及委内瑞拉的领导人也都参与了该活动。
Western leaders declined to take part because of the seizure by Russian forces of Crimea from Ukraine last year, which touched off a diplomatic crisis and led to sanctions. Of some 68 leaders invited, only 27 attended, with virtually every Western country represented by its ambassador at the event, the biggest military parade ever staged on Red Square. Wave after wave of Russian soldiers marched past for more than 30 minutes.
由于俄罗斯军队去年占领乌克兰的克里米亚地区，并引发外交危机，导致西方国家对俄罗斯施加制裁，西方领导人拒绝参加此次活动。俄罗斯共邀请了68名领导人参加活动，但只有27人到场，几乎所有西方国家都只派了大使参与，这是有史以来在红场举行的规模最大的阅兵仪式。一波又一波的俄罗斯士兵穿过红场，整个阅兵式持续了30多分钟。
Yet Ms. Merkel said she felt obliged to mark the end of the war against Nazi Germany during which the Soviet Union lost more than 26 million people, far more than any other country. “It is important for me to pay tribute to the fallen soldiers,” Ms. Merkel said at a news conference. “We will always tell the Russian nation that we will remember the losses and the atrocities.”
但默克尔表示自己有义务参加庆祝战胜纳粹德国周年纪念日的活动。苏联有逾2600万人死于这场战争，远超其他任何国家。“向牺牲的士兵致敬对我来说具有重要意义，”默克尔在新闻发布会上表示。“我们会告诉俄罗斯，我们会永远记住这些损失和暴行。”
Mr. Putin sought to use Ms. Merkel’s visit, as well as that of the other world leaders, to underscore that the Ukraine crisis had not left Russia isolated.
普京试图在默克尔及其他世界领导人到访俄罗斯之际，突出强调乌克兰危机并没有致使俄罗斯遭到孤立。
“Everyone we wanted to see was here,” he said at one point when asked on television about the boycott.
普京在电视上被问及活动遭抵制一事时表示，“我们希望见到的人都来了。“
In his speech during the parade, Mr. Putin thanked the Western nations for the wartime alliance, saying, “We are grateful to the peoples of Great Britain, France and the United States of America for their contribution to the victory.”
普京在活动期间发表演讲，感谢西方国家在战争期间与俄罗斯组成联盟，称，“我们非常感谢英国、法国和美利坚合众国对战争胜利作出的贡献。”
He also obliquely castigated the United States, as he often does: “We saw attempts to establish a unipolar world,” he said. “We see the strong-arm bloc thinking, gaining momentum. All that undermines sustainable global development.”
他像往常一样，含沙射影地谴责美国，“我们看到有人企图建立单极世界，”他说。“强横的国家集团思维蔓延。这一切破坏了全球可持续发展。”
On Sunday, Mr. Putin emphasized reconciliation. At the news conference after he and Ms. Merkel had met for a couple of hours, he emphasized that about 6,000 German businesses operated in Russia and that they would like to see the “obstacles removed” from trade.
周日当天，普京强调和解。在同默克尔举行了几小时的会谈后，普京在之后的新闻发布会上强调，俄罗斯境内有大约6000家德国企业在运营，它们希望看到贸易领域的“障碍被消除”。
For her part, Ms. Merkel made the kind of critical statement about the Ukraine conflict rarely heard in Moscow these days and one that made it clear that Germany, at least, was not quite ready for business as usual. “We have sought more and more cooperation in recent years,” Ms. Merkel said about German-Russian relations. “The criminal and illegal annexation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine have led to a serious setback to this cooperation.”
默克尔则就乌克兰冲突发表了一番批评性的论述，这样的言论在如今的莫斯科很少能听到，她明确表示，至少德国一方尚未完全准备好像往常一样开展贸易。“近年来，我们寻求进行越来越多的合作，”默克尔在谈及德俄关系时说。“非法吞并克里米亚的犯罪行为以及乌克兰东部的战争，导致这种合作遭受重大挫折。”
Both leaders expressed new support for the cease-fire agreement agreed upon in Minsk, Belarus, in February, although both suggested that the implementation was flawed.
两位领导人都对2月在白俄罗斯明斯克达成的停火协议表示了新的支持，但双方均表示，实施方面存在缺陷。
Mr. Putin asserted that Kiev needed to enter a dialogue with the separatist areas of Donbas and Luhansk to work out their future relations, while Ms. Merkel noted that a complete cease-fire had not been achieved.
普京坚称，基辅需要与顿巴斯和卢甘斯克这两个分离地区进行对话，以确定未来双方的关系，而默克尔则指出，尚未实现彻底停火。
Diplomats said that behind the scenes senior Russian officials had been emphasizing the idea that the Ukrainian issue was basically a domestic dispute that Moscow and the European Union must shepherd toward a solution, while they themselves should concentrate on broader, more important issues.
外交官称，俄罗斯高官在私下里一直强调的观点是，乌克兰问题从根本上来说是内部纠纷，莫斯科和欧盟必须进行加以引导，形成一个解决方案，而他们自己则应该把精力集中在更广泛、更重要的问题上。
Mr. Putin evidently hopes that differences among European Union nations might prevent an extension of financial, defense and energy sanctions at a European summit in June.
普京显然希望在6月的欧洲峰会上，欧盟国家之间的分歧能致使他们无法扩大在金融、国防和能源领域的对俄制裁。
“He thinks that he can wait for a while until business as usual comes back,” said Nikolai Petrov, an independent political analyst. “He is waiting for them to maintain the rhetoric but make life easier in the banking and financial sector.”
“他认为自己能等一段时间，直到一切恢复往常，”独立政治分析人士尼古拉·彼得罗夫(Nikolai Petrov)说。“他正在等他们保持嘴上的说辞，但却让银行和金融领域的日子好过一些。”
Mr. Putin is feeling slightly more confident, analysts said, because the economic picture is not as bleak as it seemed a couple months ago despite still serious problems.
分析人士称普京现在感觉稍稍更自信一些了，因为尽管依然存在严重的问题，但经济形势不像几个月前看上去那么萧条。
Russia has been aided by a rise in oil prices, and the ruble has stabilized at about 50 to the dollar — far higher than the roughly 34 rubles to the dollar last spring, but far less than at its most volatile five months ago.
石油价格的上涨对俄罗斯有所帮助，卢布稳定在约50卢布兑换1美元的水平，远高于今春的大致34卢布兑1美元，但仍远低于五个月前波动幅度最大的时候。
The prime minister, Dmitri A. Medvedev, has said gross domestic product declined by about 2 percent in the first quarter of this year. It is somewhat less than anticipated, although the World Bank has said that it will contract by 3.8 percent for the year. Inflation was nearly 17 percent in March, the World Bank said.
俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)称，今年一季度国内生产总值减少约2%。这个数字在一定程度上低于预期，不过世界银行(World Bank)表示，今年全年的收缩幅度将为3.8%。世行称，3月的通货膨胀接近17%。