MOSCOW — A prominent Russian opposition leader, Boris Y. Nemtsov, was shot dead in central Moscow late Friday night within sight of the Kremlin walls.
莫斯科——周五深夜，俄罗斯知名反对派领袖鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y. Nemtsov)在莫斯科市中心遭枪击身亡，遇难地距离克里姆林宫的围墙几步之遥。
The murder of Mr. Nemtsov, 55, a first deputy prime minister under Boris N. Yeltsin who later helped organize opposition demonstrations against President Vladimir V. Putin, was confirmed by Russia’s Interior Ministry shortly after 1 a.m. Saturday.
周六凌晨1点刚过不久，俄罗斯内政部(Interior Ministry)证实了涅姆佐夫遇刺一事。享年55岁的涅姆佐夫曾是鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)的第一副总理，后参与组织反对弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的示威活动。
A smooth-talking and worldly man who spoke accented but near-perfect English, Mr. Nemtsov rose to prominence as the governor of the Novgorod region and became a vice premier in the late 1990s, during the last years of Mr. Yeltsin’s presidency.
能言善道、老于世故的涅姆佐夫会说一口有口音但近乎完美的英语。他在担任诺夫哥罗德地区的行政长官期间成名，并在上世纪90年代末叶利钦任总统的末期成为副总理。
Since leaving the Duma, the lower house of Russia’s Parliament, in 2003, he has founded and led a number of opposition parties and organizations, the latest being the Republican Party of Russia – People’s Freedom Party, a registered political party.
自2003年离开俄罗斯议会下院国家杜马后，他创立并领导了许多反对派政党和组织，距今最近的是已登记在册的俄罗斯共和党(Republican Party of Russia – People’s Freedom Party)。
The attack came less than two days before Mr. Nemtsov was to lead another mass rally against Mr. Putin. The rally’s organizers put out a statement of purpose earlier denouncing Mr. Putin for the country’s growing economic crisis and its part in the war in Ukraine.
袭击发生时，离涅姆佐夫再次领导反对普京的大型集会还有不到两天时间。早前，集会的组织者发表了一份声明，阐述了集会的目的，谴责普京应为俄罗斯日渐严峻的经济危机，以及参与乌克兰境内的战争负责。
Mr. Nemtsov was walking on the Bolshoi Kammeny Most, a bridge south of the Kremlin, when he was fired upon at least seven times from a passing car, Vladimir Markin, the spokesman for Russia’s Investigative Committee, told state news media. Mr. Markin said that witnesses were being questioned. No suspects have been reported to be in custody.
俄罗斯调查委员会(Investigative Committee)发言人弗拉基米尔·马尔金(Vladimir Markin)对官方新闻媒体表示，当时涅姆佐夫正走在克里姆林宫南面的大卡门尼莫斯特(Bolshoi Kammeny Most)桥上，有人从一辆路过的车里朝他开了至少七枪。马尔金称正在讯问目击者。尚没有关于嫌疑人被捕的报道。
The Interfax news service, citing a police source, said that the shooting appeared to have been a contract killing.
国际文传电讯社(Interfax)援引一名警方知情人士称，这似乎是一次买凶杀人。
Mr. Nemtsov told the magazine Sobesednik earlier this month that he had entertained thoughts that Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin may kill him, though he did not seem to take the idea seriously. His mother, he said, was far more worried.
本月早些时候，涅姆佐夫曾告诉《对话》(Sobesednik)杂志，他想过俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)可能会杀掉自己，不过，他似乎并没有把这个想法当回事。他说他的母亲比他忧虑的多。
”She is truly scared that he could kill me soon for all of my statements, both in real life and on social networks,” Mr. Nemtsov said in the interview. “This is not a joke. She is a smart person.”
“她真的害怕他不久之后会杀了我，就因为我在现实生活中和社交网络上的言论，”涅姆佐夫在采访中说。“这不是开玩笑。她是个聪明人。”
Asked the same question, Mr. Nemtsov said he was “somewhat worried, but not as seriously as my mother.”
在被问到是否担心普京会杀掉自己时，涅姆佐夫说，自己“有点担心，但不像母亲那么严重”。
”If I was very scared, then I would not likely head an opposition party,” he said. “I would not do what I am doing.”
“如果我很害怕，我可能不会领导反对党，”他说，“也不会做我正在做的事。”
Mr. Nemtsov, an economic reformer under Mr. Yeltsin who was seen as a possible heir, had toiled for more than a decade in the opposition to Mr. Putin. He wrote heated denunciations of Mr. Putin’s politics in Ukraine and graft in the preparations for the Sochi Olympics of 2014.
涅姆佐夫是叶利钦时代的经济改革者，曾被视作叶利钦接班人的可能人选。十多年来，他一直积极从事反对普京的活动。他在文章中曾激烈谴责普京在乌克兰的政治活动，以及在2014年索契冬奥会筹备期间的贪污受贿行为。