MOSCOW — Describing events in Ukraine as an “unconstitutional coup,” Russian President Vladimir V. Putin said on Tuesday that Russia “reserves the right to use all means at our disposal to protect” Russian speakers in the country's south and east if they are in danger.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)把乌克兰发生的事件描述为一场“违反宪法的政变”，他于周二表示，俄罗斯将“保留采取一切可能措施的权利，来保护”乌克兰南部和东部地区讲俄语的人，如果他们有危险的话。
As he spoke, Secretary of State John Kerry arrived in Kiev with an offer of $1 billion in American loan guarantees and pledges of technical assistance, a senior State Department official said on Tuesday, signaling the Obama administration’s support for Ukraine's fledgling government, which the Kremlin does not recognize.
在普京讲这番话的同时，美国国务院一名高级官员周二说，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)已到达基辅，他带去了提供10亿美元的美国债务担保、以及提供技术援助的承诺，作为奥巴马政府支持乌克兰新政府的表示，而克里姆林宫不承认乌克兰的新政府。
In his first comments since the crisis in Ukraine boiled over, Mr. Putin said he saw no reason for Russia’s army to intervene in eastern Ukraine at the moment, but left open the possibility of military action.
普京在自乌克兰危机失控以来首次发表的评论中说，他认为目前没有理由让俄罗斯军队介入乌克兰东部，但保留采取军事行动的可能性。
“We are not going to fight with the Ukrainian people,” he said. “I want you to understand me clearly. If we make such a decision, it will only be for the protection of Ukrainian citizens. And God forbid if any of the servicemen tries to shoot their own people, we will be standing behind them — not in front, but behind. Let them try to shoot women and children!”
“我们不打算与乌克兰人民作战，”他说。“我希望你们清楚地理解我的话。如果我们做出那种决定，那将只是为了保护乌克兰公民。如果任何军人向他们的人民开枪的话，那将是天理难容的事情，我们将站在人民的后面，不是前面，是后面。看他们胆敢向妇女和儿童开枪！”
Speaking defiantly at an hourlong, unscripted news conference in Moscow, Mr. Putin denied that Russian troops had occupied Crimea and laid blame for the crisis on the United States, which he said had interfered in Ukraine “from across the pond in America as if they were sitting in a laboratory and running experiments on rats, without any understanding of the consequences.”
在莫斯科的这次为时一小时的新闻发布会上，普京没有用稿子，他措词强烈地否认俄罗斯部队已经占领了克里米亚，他将这场危机的责任归咎于美国，指责美国干涉乌克兰内政，他说，“池塘那边的美国，好像是在实验室里用小白鼠做试验，对后果没有任何考虑。”
Clearly furious, Mr. Putin delivered a version of the crisis almost entirely at odds with the view held by most officials in Europe and the United States, as well as by many Ukrainians. He described anti-government protests in Kiev as an “orgy” of radicals and nationalists, noting a swastika armband that he had glimpsed in images of the crowd. He also insisted that ousted President Viktor F. Yanukovich had never ordered security forces to shoot protesters, suggesting that snipers stationed on rooftops “may have been provocateurs from opposition parties.”
普京显然相当生气，他对这场危机的描述与欧洲和美国大多数官员的看法几乎完全不同，也和许多乌克兰人的看法不同。他把基辅的反政府抗议描述为激进分子和民族主义者的一场“狂欢”，还提到他在人群的照片上看到一个纳粹臂章。他还坚称，被赶下台的前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)从未下令让治安部队向抗议者开枪，他暗示那些屋顶上的狙击手“可能是反对派动用的制造事端者。”
Mr. Putin said Mr. Yanukovych’s fatal mistake had been to order security forces to withdraw from the site of the protests after days of bloodshed, while the sides were engaged in negotiations, and that he had personally warned him not to do so. He said Russia had then stepped in to assist Mr. Yanukovych, but did so for humanitarian reasons, “because death is the simplest way to get rid of the legitimate president, and it would have happened. I think he would have been probably killed.”
普京说，亚努科维奇的致命错误是在几天的流血冲突后，在双方仍在进行谈判时，下令将安全部队撤离抗议现场，并表示他曾私下警告亚努科维奇不要那样做。他说，俄罗斯后来向亚努科维奇提供了帮助，但那完全是出于人道主义的考虑，“因为死亡是除掉合法总统的最简单的方法，而且那会发生。我认为(如果不帮助他的话)，他很可能已经被杀死了。”
He expressed confidence that the crisis would not lead to war, because, as he put it, Ukrainian and Russian soldiers are “brothers in arms.”
他对这场危机不会引发战争充满信心，因为正如他说的，乌克兰和俄罗斯士兵是“肩并肩的兄弟”。
“I am convinced that Ukrainian personnel and Russian personnel will not be on different sides of the barricades, they will be on the same side of the barricades,” he said. “There has not been a shot fired in Crimea.”
“我确信，乌克兰士兵和俄罗斯士兵不会站在对立的不同方面，他们将会站在同一个战线上，”他说，“在克里米亚还没有开过一枪。”
The Kremlin leader took issue with Western threats of reprisals, including sanctions and a boycott of the meeting of the Group of 8 industrial nations that is scheduled to be held in Russia. “All threats against Russia are counterproductive and harmful,” he said, according to Reuters, adding that Russia was ready to host the G-8 but Western leaders who did not want to attend “don’t need to.”
这位克里姆林宫领导人批评了西方的报复威胁，威胁包括实施制裁以及抵制即将在俄罗斯召开的G8工业国会议。“所有针对俄罗斯的威胁都会适得其反，而且是有害的，”路透社(Reuters)报道他这样表示，他补充说，俄罗斯已经准备好迎接G8会议，但是那些不想参加的西方领导人“可以不来”。
Mr. Putin acknowledged that he had met two days ago with Mr. Yanukovych, saying he was “safe and sound.” 
普京承认曾在两天前与亚努科维奇见过面，并说后者“安全、健康”。
His remarks came after he declared the scheduled end of a military exercise he ordered in western Russia near Ukraine’s border last week, telling military units that participated to return to their permanent garrisons.
普京是在宣布一项军事演习按计划结束时讲此番话的，演习是他下令于上周在俄罗斯西部的乌克兰边境附近举行，他已让参加军事演习的部队返回其原驻地。
There was no indication that the move presaged any easing of a crisis that has raised Western fears that the region may be spinning toward a broader conflict. Tension remained high in Crimea, where Russian troops are blockading Ukrainian military facilities in what the authorities in Kiev have called a declaration of war.
没有迹象表明此举预示着危机会出现缓解，西方担心此次危机可能会让该地区陷入更广泛的冲突。克里米亚的局势依然紧张，俄罗斯部队正在采取措施封锁乌克兰的军事设施，基辅当局则表示这等于是在宣战。
Mr. Putin denied that military personnel in unmarked uniforms who now control much of Crimea are Russian forces, describing them instead as “local defense forces.”
普京否认那些穿着无身份标志制服、现已控制了克里米亚大部分地区的军事人员是俄罗斯部队，把他们描述为“当地的防御力量。”
He said Russia is not considering annexing Crimea, but said Crimean citizens should be allowed to determine their own future, presumably as part of Russia or Ukraine
他说，俄罗斯没想吞并克里米亚，但他表示，克里米亚公民应被允许决定自己的未来，也就是说，是属于俄罗斯、还是乌克兰。
“We are not considering this possibility,” he said. “It’s up to people living in a certain territory, if they can exercise their free will, and determine their future. For example, if Kosovo’s Albanians were allowed to do that, self-determination, which according to U.N. documents is a right, but we will never instigate it, never support such trends.”
“我们没有考虑这个可能性，”他说，“这取决于生活在某片土地上的人们，如果他们能够行使他们的自由意志，并确定他们的未来的话。比如，如果科索沃的阿尔巴尼亚人被允许这样做、被允许自决，根据联合国宪章，这是一种权利。但我们永远不会煽动这件事，不会支持这种趋势。”
“Only the people who live in a certain territory have the right to decide their own future,” he said. 
他说，“只有生活在某片土地上的人，才有权力决定他们的未来。”
But in a graphic illustration of the standoff and its potential hazards, Russian troops on Tuesday fired warning shots in the air as approximately 200 unarmed Ukrainian soldiers approached Russian positions on the perimeter of the contested Belbek airfield in Crimea to press demands to return to their positions there and conduct joint patrols.
但有件事情生动地反映出这场对峙本身及其可能带来的危险：俄罗斯军队周二向空中开枪，对约200名未携带武器的乌克兰士兵发出警告，当时这些士兵正在靠近位于克里米亚的、有争议的贝尔贝克机场(Belbek airfield)外围的俄罗斯营地，试图向俄罗斯人施压，要求返回他们在机场的驻地，并要求对机场进行共同巡逻。
Meanwhile, the Kremlin responded to American warnings of economic punishment with a counterthreat that Moscow might abandon the dollar as a reserve currency and refuse to repay loans to American banks, Reuters reported. The warning came from Sergei Glazyev, a Kremlin aide with a reputation for staking out hard-line positions but limited influence over policy, the news agency said.
与此同时，路透社报道说，克里姆林宫对美国的经济制裁警告发出反威胁，称莫斯科可能会放弃以美元为储备货币的做法，并拒绝向美国银行偿还贷款。路透社称，发出这个警告的人是克里姆林宫顾问谢尔盖·格拉斯耶夫(Sergei Glazyev)，他以采取强硬立场而闻名，但对政策的影响有限。
At the United Nations, where the Security Council met on Monday for the third time in an emergency session since Friday, the Ukrainian ambassador, Yuriy Sergeyev, distributed a three-page letter asserting that the Russians had sent 16,000 troops into the Crimean Peninsula since Feb. 24.
联合国安理会在周一召开了自上周五以来的第三次紧急会议，乌克兰大使尤里·谢尔盖耶夫(Yuriy Sergeyev)向与会者分发了一封3页纸的信，称自2月24日以来，俄罗斯已向克里米亚派遣了16000名士兵。
The troops, Mr. Sergeyev wrote, had moved to “seize, block and control crucial governmental and military objects of Ukraine in Crimea.” 
谢尔盖耶夫写道，这些士兵已经“占领、封锁并控制了克里米亚的主要乌克兰政府和军事目标。”
The Security Council meeting in New York was requested by Russia’s ambassador, Vitaly I. Churkin, who told fellow members that Russia had acted to thwart what he called threats by ultranationalists, including anti-Semites, against Russians and Russian speakers inside Ukraine. Mr. Churkin also held up a copy of a letter from Mr. Yanukovych to Russia asking for military help.
在纽约举行的此次安理会会议，是应俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)的请求而召开的，他对安理会成员国说，俄罗斯已经采取行动消除了他称之为极端民族主义者的威胁，这些威胁来自包括反犹太主义者、反俄罗斯者、以及反对在乌克兰境内说俄语的人士。丘尔金还拿出了一封亚努科维奇请求俄罗斯军事援助信件的复印件。
Yet the Security Council meeting quickly became a venue for East-West diplomatic gibes and rejoinders. The British ambassador, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, called Russia’s justification bogus, while the envoy from Lithuania, Raimonda Murmokaite, told the Council it “resurrects the memory of darkest pages of the 20th century.”
但是，这次安理会会议很快变成了东西方之间外交嘲讽和辩论的现场。英国驻联合国大使马克·格兰特爵士(Sir Mark Lyall Grant)称俄罗斯的解释虚伪，而立陶宛驻特使雷蒙达斯·穆尔莫凯特(Raimonda Murmokaite)则对安理会表示，俄罗斯的说法“让人们回想起20世纪最黑暗的记忆。”
After Mr. Churkin had spoken, Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, said, “Listening to the representative of Russia, one might think that Moscow had just become the rapid response arm of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.”
丘尔金的发言结束后，美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)说，“听了俄罗斯代表的发言，人们可能会认为，莫斯科已俨然成为联合国人权事务高级专员办事处(Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights)的快速反应部门。”