MOSCOW — Russia presented a combination of conciliation and bluster on Monday over its handling of the downed Malaysia Airlines jet, with President Vladimir Putin seemingly probing for a way out of the crisis without appearing to compromise with the West.
莫斯科——周一，俄罗斯在应对马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)飞机坠毁事件时，展现出了和解与威胁的双重姿态。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)似乎正在寻找方法，在解决危机的同时，又不显得像是在向西方妥协。
On one hand, he offered conciliatory words in a video statement, oddly released in the middle of the night, while the separatists allied with Moscow in southeastern Ukraine released the bodies of the victims and turned over the black box flight recorders from the doomed aircraft to Malaysian officials.
一方面，他在午夜发表了措辞和缓的视频声明，只是声明的发表时间有些奇怪。与此同时，乌克兰东南部受到莫斯科支持的分裂分子，交出了遇难者遗体，并将失事飞机的黑匣子交给了马来西亚官员。
However, two senior military officers forcefully demanded that the U.S. show publicly any proof that rebels fired the fatal missile, and again suggested that the Ukrainian military shot down the Malaysia Airlines jet despite the fact that Ukraine has not used anti-aircraft weapons in the fight along its eastern border.
然而两名高级军官强烈要求美国公开证据，表明致命的导弹袭击是叛乱分子发动的。他们还再次表示，是乌克兰军方击落了马航的飞机，尽管乌克兰政府军在东部边境作战时没有使用防空武器。
Putin seemed to respond to the outraged international demands growing daily that he intervene personally to rein in the rebels — particularly to halt the degrading chaos surrounding the recovery of the remains. But at the same time, Moscow did not concede that it was at fault.
国际社会日益愤怒，要求普京亲自干预，控制叛乱分子，尤其是要求他们不要再可耻地阻碍遗体的收回工作。普京似乎是在回应国际社会的这些要求。但与此同时，莫斯科方面并不承认俄罗斯负有责任。
“Putin is trying to find his own variation of a twin-track decision, because he does not have a clear exit,” said Gleb O. Pavlovsky, a political consultant who once worked for the Kremlin.
前克里姆林宫政治顾问格列布·O·帕夫洛夫斯基(Gleb O. Pavlovsky)表示，“普京正在设法寻找一种做好两手准备的决策，因为他并没有清晰的退出途径。”
The pressure continued to expand. President Barack Obama delivered yet another personal rebuke to Putin from the White House lawn over the intransigence of the rebels toward the international investigation, hours before they agreed to more cooperation. In addition, an initial expert analysis of photographs of the airplane's fuselage found that the damage was consistent with being struck by the type of missile that U.S. officials said was used.
压力不断加大。奥巴马总统在白宫草坪上发表了讲话，再一次因为叛乱分子毫不退让，阻挠国际检查，而亲口指责普京。几小时后，叛乱分子终于同意给予更多配合。除此之外，专家对飞机机身照片进行初步分析后，发现损害状况与美国官员所说的那种导弹击中的痕迹一致。
On Tuesday, Russia faces the threat of far more serious sanctions from its main trading partners in Western Europe.
周二，俄罗斯在西欧的主要贸易伙伴威胁要对俄罗斯实施更严重的制裁。
“Of course this is a strong blow to him, a strong blow to his strategy,” said Pavlovsky, referring to the fact that Russian separatists fighting in eastern Ukraine have been discredited globally, due to suspicions that they shot down the aircraft and their handling of the crash site.
帕夫洛夫斯基表示，“当然，这对他是一个沉重打击，对他的战略也是个沉重打击。”帕夫洛夫斯基指的是，在乌克兰东部作战的俄罗斯分裂分子已经在全球范围内名誉扫地的事实——人们怀疑他们击落了飞机，而且他们处理失事现场的方式令人不满。
“It touches him too,” Pavlovsky said, “He wants to get out, but to get out without having lost.”
“这也触及了他本人，”帕夫洛夫斯基说。“他想要摆脱这个问题，但要在不认输的前提下摆脱。”
Obama called for Putin to “pivot away” from the rebels, linking him directly to their abuse of the crash site.
奥巴马要求普京“停止支持”叛乱分子，称他应为叛乱分子扰乱空难现场的行为负直接责任。
“Russia, and President Putin in particular, has direct responsibility to compel them to cooperate with the investigation,” Obama said in brief remarks. “President Putin says that he supports a full and fair investigation and I appreciate those words, but they have to be supported by actions.”
“俄罗斯，特别是普京总统，有直接责任迫使他们配合调查，”奥巴马在简短的讲话中说。“普京总统表示，他支持开展全面、公正的调查，我很欣赏这番表态，但这些言论需要行动支持。”
Putin's statement was issued on the Kremlin website at 1:40 a.m. Monday on video, with analysts suggesting the timing was aimed more at Washington than Russia.
普京的声明视频是周一凌晨1点40分发布在克里姆林宫网站上的。分析人士表示，选择这个时间更多的是为了面向华盛顿，而不是面向俄罗斯。
His usual swagger seemed absent; instead he looked pasty and unsure, avoiding talking into the camera directly and leaning on a desk.
普京惯有的倨傲神态似乎消失了；反之，他脸色苍白，口气犹疑，倚着桌子，试图避免正对着镜头讲话。
The statement did not break new ground, either. The Russian leader repeated his support for a thorough international investigation, and said Russia would pursue its efforts to move the fight over the future of southeastern Ukraine from the battlefield to the negotiating table. Putin did not address directly any accusations of Russian complicity in downing the aircraft.
声明里也没有什么新突破。这位俄罗斯领导人重申，他支持进行彻底的国际调查，还表示俄罗斯会努力把决定乌克兰东南部未来的争斗，从战场上挪到谈判桌上。对于外界指控俄罗斯参与密谋击落飞机的说法，普京没有直接发表任何意见。
By the end of the day there was one small diplomatic victory. The Malaysian government dealt directly with the leadership of the Russian-supported Donetsk People's Republic, the breakaway faction in southeastern Ukraine, in negotiating the release of the bodies and the flight recorders.
到当日结束时，出现了一次外交上的小小胜利。马来西亚政府在交出遗体和飞行记录仪的谈判中，直接与乌克兰东南部由俄罗斯支持的分裂势力，顿涅茨克人民共和国的领导层进行了接触。
Amid all the negotiating, the Ukrainian government pressed its attack on Donetsk, firing on rebel positions in the northwest of the city and killing at least three civilians. Ukraine denied that it hit civilian areas, but heavy damage in the city cast doubt on that assertion.
在整个谈判过程中，乌克兰政府加紧了对顿涅茨克的攻击，他们开火攻击了叛军在该市西北部的据点，致使至少三名平民死亡。乌克兰政府否认政府军曾攻击过平民所在的区域，不过市内受到严重破坏的场景，让他们的说法显得并没有那么可信。
In his statement, Putin also warned that he was suspicious of all the criticism directed at the Kremlin. “No one should and no one has the right to use this tragedy to pursue their own political goals,” he said.
普京在声明中还警告称，他对所有针对俄罗斯政府的指责，都表示怀疑。“没有人应当，也没有人有权借用这场悲剧来达成自己的政治目的。”
Putin often seethes with distrust and anger that the U.S. seeks to exploit any opening to weaken Russia, a widespread sentiment in Russia reflected in his high approval ratings. The entire Ukraine confrontation is rooted in his determination to stop the West from wrestling Ukraine out of Moscow's orbit.
普京常常满怀猜忌，愤愤不平地指责美国试图利用所有的机会来削弱俄罗斯。普京获得的高支持率反映了这种在俄罗斯普遍存在的情绪。整场乌克兰冲突的根源就在于，西方竭力把乌克兰拉出莫斯科的势力范围时，他坚决地出手阻止。
“In Russia, no one thinks that Russia is guilty,” said Olga Kryshtanovskaya, a sociologist who specializes in studying Russia's political elite.
研究俄罗斯政治权贵的社会学家奥尔加·克雷施塔诺夫斯卡娅(Olga Kryshtanovskaya)说，“在俄罗斯，没有人会认为俄罗斯犯有过失。”
The Kremlin actually spent months using state-run television to build the case that the Kiev government are a pack of “fascists,” bent on killing the ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine. It has softened that message somewhat in recent weeks, but not abandoned it.
实际上，克林姆林宫花费了数月时间，动用官方电视台把基辅的乌克兰政府描绘成了一伙“法西斯分子”，下定决心要在乌克兰东部杀害俄罗斯族人。最近几周，克林姆林宫不知为何软化了这种立场，不过并没有抛弃这种提法。
Hence two senior Russian military commanders, sitting in a vast briefing room and dwarfed by the giant electronic screens overhead, used various satellite images and charts to raise a series of rhetorical questions that suggested that Ukraine and the U.S. deliberately plotted to shoot down the passenger jet. The unusual bilingual briefing was broadcast live on state-run television.
于是，两名俄罗斯军方指挥官坐在一间巨大的新闻发布厅里，头顶悬着让他们都显得渺小的硕大的电子屏幕，两人用林林总总的卫星图片和图表提出了一系列的诘问，暗示乌克兰和美国蓄意策划击落了马航客机。俄罗斯官方电视台现场直播了这场颇为罕见的双语新闻发布会。