TANGIER, Morocco — IN eastern Ukraine, Vladimir V. Putin has been playing with fire.
摩洛哥丹吉尔——弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)一直在乌克兰东部玩火。
He has mobilized the worst elements to be found in the region.
他把该区域能找到的社会渣宰都给调集到了一块。
He has taken thugs, thieves, rapists, ex-cons and vandals and turned them into a paramilitary force.
他集结了恶棍、窃贼、强奸犯、骗子和流氓，然后把他们拼凑成了一支准军事化的队伍。
He has permitted ad hoc commanders of separatist groups to kill or chase off intellectuals, journalists and other moral authorities in the cities of Donetsk and Lugansk.
在顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克，他纵容分裂团体的临时指挥官们驱赶或杀害知识分子、记者，以及其他道德权威。
He has watched as a vodka-soaked rabble army destroys or takes over public buildings, hospitals, schools and municipal offices of the country it is pretending to liberate.
当醉醺醺的乌合之众破坏或占领乌克兰的公共建筑、医院、学校和市政办公室，却假装是要解放这些地区时，普京一直在袖手旁观。
He has allowed a veritable gang war to take hold — without caring that he is losing control of the forces that he has unleashed, with rival bands pitted against one another and carving out fiefs amid the growing anarchy.
他让一场名符其实的流氓战争爆发——却不关心他释放的力量正在脱离自己的掌控。各敌对势力你争我夺，在日益混乱的政局中抢占地盘，割据一方。
Most troubling of all: To this underworld without structure or discipline, to these undisciplined louts who know only the law of the jungle, to this new brand of fighting force that has only the dimmest idea of war and no idea, God knows, of the laws of war — to this motley collection Mr. Putin, the Russian president, gave a terrifying arsenal with which the amateur soldiers were unfamiliar and with which they have been playing, like kids with fireworks.
最麻烦的是，俄罗斯总统普京给这群乌合之众提供了可怕的武器。这是一个结构散乱、目无法纪的地下世界；这是一群只知道丛林法则的肆无忌惮的粗人；这是一支新的战斗力量，天知道，他们只有最模糊的战争概念，却对战争法则一无所知。这些半吊子的战士对他们拿到手里的武器毫无经验，操弄起来就像是孩子在玩烟花。
We know that Russia supplied vast quantities of heavy weaponry to the separatists and trained them to use the SA-11 surface-to-air missile system — the kind believed to have been used to bring down Malaysia Airlines Flight 17.
我们知道，俄罗斯给分裂分子提供了大量的重型武器，还培训他们使用SA-11地对空导弹系统——据信，马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班就是被这种类型的导弹击落的。
One can envision the victorious gang celebrating with its trophy, playing with it as if it were a toy — one that can reach altitudes of over 70,000 feet.
我们可以想象，获胜的叛军队伍庆功时把玩着这件战利品，就像是捧着一件玩具——一件能冲上7万英尺（约合2.1万米）高空的玩具。
One can similarly imagine Russian military officers — not so secretly assigned by the Kremlin to watch over the missiles and their use by amateur artillery crews targeting Ukrainian military aircraft — being overtaken by events and seized with panic.
我们还可以发挥类似的想象，勾勒出俄罗斯军官被一连串事件搞得焦头烂额、惊慌失措的样子。这些军人是克林姆林宫安排的，任务是照看导弹，并监督半桶水的炮兵操控它们来攻击乌克兰的军机。对这种安排，克林姆林宫并未多加掩饰。
One can even imagine their consternation when Igor Strelkov, the self-proclaimed defense minister of the Republic of Donetsk, claimed responsibility for shooting down a Ukrainian military plane — which turned out to be Flight 17.
我们甚至能够想象，自称是顿涅茨克人民共和国国防部长的伊戈尔·斯特雷科夫(Igor Strelkov)宣称为打下一架乌克兰军机负责时，这些俄罗斯军人是多么的惶恐。因为事实证明，这架飞机是马航的MH17客机。
We know what happened.
我们知道发生了什么。
Whatever the outcome of the eventual investigation — an investigation made well nigh impossible by these dogs of war who follow no creed and no law, who, as they horrified the world by leaving the bodies of their victims abandoned in fields or heaped in poorly refrigerated train cars, as they reveled in their 15 minutes of fame by deploring before the news cameras of the world that the 298 lost souls had had the bad taste to “land” on people’s houses or in reservoirs used for drinking water, were also purloining the plane’s black boxes, organizing the export to Russia of possibly compromising debris, and casually stripping the bodies of objects of value — whatever the outcome of the investigation into all of this, an undeniable result was carnage, a war crime, an attack on Ukraine, the Netherlands and Malaysia all at once.
要在这些没有信仰、目无法纪的战争走狗眼皮底下进行调查几乎是不可能的。举世皆惊的是，他们任由遇难者的尸体被遗弃在荒郊野外，或者被堆放在条件恶劣的冷冻车厢里。与此同时，他们为自己短暂的声名远播而洋洋自得，在全世界的新闻镜头前激烈地反驳，怪这298条亡魂不体面地“降落”在住宅区里，或是掉在用于储备饮用水的水库里。然而，还是这一群人，不请自来地抢走了失事飞机上的黑匣子，组织力量把可能揭露肇事者的飞机残骸运送到了俄罗斯，为所欲为地扒下遗体上值钱的物品。不管最终的调查结果如何，不管调查会对他们的这些行为得出什么结论，一个不容否认的事实是，这起事件是一次大屠杀，是战争罪行，是对乌克兰、荷兰和马来西亚的集体攻击。
For all of these reasons, it was hard not to side with Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko — who, it is worth noting, has shown in the terrible days since the crash the qualities of composure, dignity and authority that he exhibited during his campaign for office — when he asked the international community to classify as terrorist organizations the “people’s republics” of Donetsk and Lugansk.
鉴于所有这些原因，我们难以选择不站在乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)一边——不足为奇的是，在坠机之后的可怕日子里，他显示出了自己在竞选总统时展现过的镇定自若、从容得体的品格和威信——当时，他恳请国际社会把顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克“人民共和国”定性为恐怖组织。
It is also hard not to agree with Mr. Poroshenko when, several hours after the tragedy, speaking unemotionally and with no trace of hate, he reminded France’s president, François Hollande, that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi had been blacklisted by the world for his suspected involvement in a similar attack on a commercial airliner, Pan Am Flight 103, over Lockerbie, Scotland, in December 1988.
就在悲剧发生几小时之后，波罗申科不带一丝情绪和恨意地发表了讲话，他提醒法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)说，穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)因为涉嫌参与了类似的袭击而被世界各国列入黑名单。那次袭击发生在1988年12月，目标是从苏格兰洛克比上空飞过的泛美PA103航班。我们同样很难不认可他的这番话。
Faced with this new Lockerbie, will we in the West do no more than beg Mr. Putin to provide “free and complete” access to the crash site and offer “full cooperation” in the recovery of remains?
面对又一起洛克比空难，难道西方各国能做的，仅仅是祈求普京在搜寻遗体时提供“全面合作”，可以“自由而彻底地”进入空难现场吗？
Have we not a moral obligation to draw logical conclusions about a crime for which, because of his incendiary and irresponsible policies, deeply unworthy of the president of a great power, Mr. Putin is, in the end, wholly responsible?
难道我们没有对这项罪行得出一个合理结论的道德义务？以普京的这些煽动性的、不负责任的政策，他是不配掌握一个大国的总统之职的，因此他对这项罪行负有全责。
Under the circumstances — with Mr. Putin having not yet agreed to back off in Ukraine, much less in Crimea — how can France morally justify its plan to deliver to Russia two Mistral-class warships, now being fitted out in the western port of St.-Nazaire? Do we want them to become the crown jewels of a Russian fleet off Sebastopol and, perhaps, Odessa?
普京还没有同意从乌克兰撤退，从克里米亚撤军就更不可能了。在目前的情势下，法国向俄罗斯交付两艘“米斯特拉尔”级(Mistral-class)战舰的计划，在道义上如何说得过去呢？目前，这两艘战舰正在西部的圣纳泽尔港进行组装。难道我们还想把它们变成驻守在塞瓦斯托波尔市或是敖德萨市外的俄罗斯舰队中坚力量不成？