MOSCOW — This time, the Russians said, it really happened.
莫斯科——这一次，俄罗斯表示，确有其事。
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia telephoned the singer-songwriter Elton John, who had asked for a meeting with him to discuss the status of gay rights in Russia.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)给创作歌手艾尔顿·约翰(Elton John)打了一个电话。约翰此前曾要求与普京会面，讨论同性恋权益在俄罗斯处于怎样地位的问题。
Mr. John announced in an Instagram post last week that Mr. Putin had called him. But the story that circulated on social media turned out to be a hoax: Mr. John had been the victim of a prank call by two satirists, Vladimir Krasnov and Alexey Stolyarov, who posed as Mr. Putin and an interpreter.
约翰上周在一则Instagram帖子里宣布，普京给他打了电话。不过社交网络上流传的故事，原来只是一场骗局：两个讽刺笑星弗拉基米尔·克拉斯诺夫(Vladimir Krasnov)和阿列克谢·斯托利亚罗夫(Alexey Stolyarov)假扮成普京和翻译，捉弄了约翰。
Evidently, the Kremlin decided it was a good idea after all.
克里姆林宫显然认为，这终究是个好主意。
“Putin spoke with Elton John,” the president’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, told reporters on Thursday after Mr. Putin held a meeting at Russia’s agro-industrial complex in Semikarakorsk. “Putin called and said: ‘I know that you were pranked by the telephone guys. Don’t be upset with them. They’re harmless, although that, without doubt, does not justify them.’”
“普京给艾尔顿·约翰通了话，”总统的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)周四对记者表示，此前普京在该国谢米卡拉科尔斯克的农业工业联合建筑群里召开了会议。“普京打电话说，‘我知道你被打电话的家伙捉弄了，不过不要生他们的气。他们没有恶意，不过毫无疑问，他们完全没理由这样做。’”
Mr. Peskov added: “Putin said that he knows what a popular performer Elton John is, and in the future, if their schedules coincide, he will be ready to meet with him and discuss any questions that are of interest.”
佩斯科夫补充道：“普京表示，他知道艾尔顿·约翰是一个多么著名的乐手，未来如果双方日程都合适，他愿意与他会面，讨论他关心的任何问题。”
The pranksters took a little bit of credit for themselves. “We are very proud that we hastened the meeting between the president and Elton John, for which Elton John was ready, but everything was resolved much faster,” Mr. Krasnov told the Russian news agency, RIA Novosti.
两位恶作剧者也将部分功劳归于自己。“我们非常自豪，加速了总统与艾尔顿·约翰的会面。艾尔顿·约翰已经准备好了，但现在所有事情解决得都更快了，”克拉斯诺夫对俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)表示。
Gary Farrow, a spokesman for Mr. John, declined to comment on Thursday.
约翰的发言人加里·法罗(Gary Farrow)周四拒绝发表评论。
In an interview during a visit to Ukraine earlier this month, Mr. John told the BBC’s diplomatic correspondent that he wanted to meet Mr. Putin in person, calling the Russian president’s approach toward gay people “isolating and prejudiced.”
在本月早些时候造访乌克兰时，约翰在一次采访中告诉BBC的外交记者，他希望见到普京本人，他表示俄罗斯总统对待同性恋人群的方式将他们“孤立了起来，而且存在偏见”。
Russia has, among other actions, moved to classify gay “propaganda” as pornography and barred same-sex couples from adopting Russian children.
俄罗斯已经采取了许多行动，包括将同性恋“宣传”归为色情内容，而且禁止了同性伴侣收养俄罗斯儿童的做法。