There was a moment at the height of the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962 when Soviet ships approached to within just a few miles of a U.S. naval blockade and then, at the last minute, turned back — prompting then-Secretary of State Dean Rusk to utter one of the most famous lines from the Cold War:  “We’re eyeball to eyeball, and I think the other fellow just blinked.”
1962年10月，古巴导弹危机的紧要关头，一度有苏联舰船驶近美国海上封锁线，相距仅有几英里远，不过在最后一刻却调头离开了——对此，当时的美国国务卿迪安·腊斯克(Dean Rusk)说出了冷战时期最著名的一句话：“我们怒目而视，我想是对方先眨眼了。”
The crisis in Ukraine never threatened a Cold War-like nuclear Armageddon, but it may be the first case of post-post-Cold War brinkmanship, pitting the 21st century versus the 19th. It pits a Chinese/Russian worldview that says we can take advantage of 21st-century globalization whenever we want to enrich ourselves, and we can behave like 19th-century powers whenever we want to take a bite out of a neighbor — versus a view that says, no, sorry, the world of the 21st century is not just interconnected but interdependent and either you play by those rules or you pay a huge price.
乌克兰危机肯定不会构成冷战那样的核末日威胁，但它可能是冷战之后“边缘政策”的第一个例子，是21世纪和19世纪的对抗。较量的一方是中国/俄罗斯的世界观：想繁荣昌盛了，我们可以去利用21世纪的全球化，想欺压邻居，我们可以像19世纪的列强那样行事；另一方的观念则是，不，对不起，21世纪的世界不只是相互关联的，也是相互依存的，你要么遵守这些游戏规则，要么付出惨重代价。
In the end, it was Putinism versus Obamaism, and I’d like to be the first on my block to declare that the “other fellow” — Putin — “just blinked.”
到最后，这就是普京主义和奥巴马主义的较量。我想成为己方阵营里第一个宣布“对方”——普京——“先眨眼”的人。
In fact, I’d like to say more: Putin got pretty much everything wrong in Ukraine. He thought the world was still shaped by “spheres of influence” dictated from the top down, when Ukraine was all about the emergence of “people of influence” — The Square People, organized from the bottom up and eager to join their own sphere: the world of liberty and free markets represented by the European Union.
其实，我还想说：普京在乌克兰问题上的所有看法几乎全是错的。他认为世界是仍然是由自上而下的“势力阶层”决定的，但乌克兰的“势力人民”已经出现——“广场人”(The Square People)自下往上地组织起来，渴望加入他们自己的圈子：欧盟代表的、拥有人身自由和自由市场的世界。
Putin underestimated Ukrainian patriotism; even many Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine did not like pro-Putin thugs trying to force them to join Russia. “Ukrainians have said in opinion polls that they want open borders and visa-free access to Russia,” noted the pollster Craig Charney.  “But they also said in those polls — and confirmed with their majority vote for a pro-European candidate in Sunday’s election — that while they think Russia is a nice place to visit, they wouldn’t want to live there.”
普京低估了乌克兰的爱国主义力量；甚至在乌克兰东部，不少讲俄语的人也不喜欢试图强迫他们加入俄罗斯的亲普京暴徒。“乌克兰人在民意调查中说，他们希望开放边界，免签证进入俄罗斯，”民意调查组织者克雷格·查尼(Craig Charney)指出。“但在这些调查中，他们也表示，虽然他们认为俄罗斯是一个旅行的好地方，但他们不希望生活在那里——在上周日的选举中，多数人投票给亲欧洲的候选人，就已经证实了这一点。”
And, most of all, Putin underestimated the impact of Western economic sanctions. The world turned out to be more interdependent, and Russia more exposed to that interdependence, than Putin thought.
而且，最重要的是，普京低估了西方经济制裁的影响力。这个世界的相互依存性比普京以为的更强烈，俄罗斯也比普京以为的更加容易遭受这种相互依存性的影响。
So he blinked. The first flutter was pulling back his troops from Ukraine’s border and letting the election proceed. Interestingly, he chose to blink this out most directly at last week’s St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, Russia’s annual conference to attract global investors. “We want peace and calm in Ukraine,” Mr. Putin told the business executives. “We are interested that on our western borders we have peace and calm in Ukraine. ... We will work with the newly elected structure.”
因此，他先眨了眼睛。眼皮的第一次翻动是将部队从俄乌边境撤回，让乌克兰大选进行下去。有趣的是，他选择在上周的圣彼得堡国际经济论坛(St. Petersburg Economic Forum)上直截了当地眨眼，那是俄罗斯用来吸引全球投资者的年度会议。“我们希望乌克兰保持和平与冷静，”普京告诉与会的商界高管。“在我们的西部边境，乌克兰的和平与冷静是符合我们的利益的，我们会和新当选的乌克兰政府开展合作。”
After Putin spoke, the ruble rose 1 percent against the dollar, demonstrating just how much global markets will continue to reward his conciliation and punish his aggression. It has not been pretty. Putin has had to spend billions propping up the ruble and making up for lost foreign investment. Reuters reported that Russia’s First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov told some attendees in St. Petersburg that the sanctions are “causing serious consequences for our economy,” which could soon be in recession.
普京发言之后，卢布兑美元汇率上涨了1%，这表明全球市场有多么愿意继续对他的和解之举给予奖励，对他的侵略行动施加惩罚。之前的奖惩状况不太好看。普京不得不花费数十亿资金推高卢布的汇率，弥​​补流出的外国投资。路透社报道，俄罗斯第一副总理副总理伊戈尔·舒瓦洛夫(Igor Shuvalov)对前往圣彼得堡的一些与会者说，经济制​​裁“对我们的经济产生成了严重后果，”可能很快就会使其陷入衰退。
And, because Putin’s aggression in Crimea has spurred Europe to reduce its dependence on Russian gas, Putin rushed to Beijing to conclude a natural gas supply deal with China. The price China extracted is secret and experts “suspect Putin dropped the price of gas significantly for China in a desperate maneuver to ensure a steady cash flow for Gazprom in the face of sinking revenue and Western sanctions,” The Washington Post reported. “ ‘There’s something fishy in the contract,’ ” said Mikhail Krutikhin, an energy analyst at RusEnergy, suggesting that Russia got a bad bargain. Putin blinked.
而且，由于普京对克里米亚的侵略，欧洲减少了对俄罗斯天然气的依赖，普京前往北京和中国签订了一个天然气供应协议。中国支付的价格是保密的，专家“认为普京在绝望中采取行动，大幅下调了出售给中国的天然气价格，以确保俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)在面临营收下滑和西方制裁时，还可以获得稳定的现金流，”《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)报道。“‘这份合同有蹊跷，’”俄罗斯能源网(RusEnergy)的能源分析师米哈伊尔·克鲁提金(Mikhail Krutikhin)说，意指俄罗斯在讨价还价中落于下风。普京眨眼了。
Let’s add it up: Putin’s seizure of Crimea has weakened the Russian economy, led to China getting a bargain gas deal, revived NATO, spurred Europe to start ending its addiction to Russian gas and begun a debate across Europe about increasing defense spending. Nice work, Vladimir. That’s why I say the country Putin threatens most today is Russia.
总结一下：普京吞并克里米亚之举削弱了俄罗斯经济，帮中国得到了划算的天然气协议，振兴了北约，促使欧洲开始结束对俄罗斯天然气的依赖，引发了欧洲各国对增加军费支出的讨论。干得漂亮，弗拉基米尔。这就是为什么我会说，如今受普京威胁最大的国家是俄罗斯。
The Russian people will have to sort that out. I wish them well. I don’t want Russia to become a failed state. But I want to see Ukraine get where its majority wants to go — toward closer ties with the E.U., but without a break in ties to Russia. That will require not only a new Ukrainian president, but a new Parliament, a new constitution and an engaged network of civil society groups able to hold Kiev’s all-too-often corrupt leaders to the rule of law and to the standards of governance being demanded by both the E.U. and the I.M.F., in return for aid.
俄罗斯人必须要自己想明白这一点。我祝他们一切顺利。我不希望俄罗斯成为一个失败国家。但我想要看到乌克兰实现大多数人想要达到的那个目标——与欧盟建立更密切的关系，同时不切断与俄罗斯的关系。乌克兰不仅需要新的总统，还需要新的议会、新的宪法和活跃的公民社会团体组成的网络，把劣迹斑斑的基辅领导人限定在法治和治理标准的轨道上。这也是欧洲和IMF向其提供援助的前提条件。