MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin reclaimed Crimea as a part of Russia on Tuesday, reversing what he described as a historic injustice made by the Soviet Union 60 years ago and brushing aside international condemnation that could leave Russia isolated for years to come.
莫斯科——周二，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)宣布收回克里米亚，使其成为俄罗斯的一部分，推翻了他所谓的苏联60年前做出的历史性不公选择，并对国际谴责置之不理，尽管这样的谴责可能会使俄罗斯在未来几年陷入孤立。
In an emotional address before the country’s political elite in the Grand Kremlin Palace, Mr. Putin said he did not seek to divide Ukraine any further, but he vowed to protect Russia’s interests there from what he described as Western, and particularly American, actions that had left Russia feeling cornered.
普京在大克里姆林宫(Grand Kremlin Palace)对该国的政治精英发表了感情强烈的演讲，称他并不打算进一步分裂乌克兰，同时发誓保护俄罗斯在乌克兰的利益不受他所谓的西方国家行动，尤其是美国行动的影响。他表示，这些行动使俄罗斯感到走投无路。
“Crimea has always been an integral part of Russia in the hearts and minds of people,” Mr. Putin declared in his address, delivered in the chandeliered St. George’s Hall inside the Kremlin before hundreds of members of Parliament, governors and others. His remarks, which lasted 47 minutes, were interrupted repeatedly by thunderous applause, standing ovations and at the end chants of “Russia, Russia.” Some in the audience wiped tears from their eyes.
普京演讲时称，“在人们的心中和意识中，克里米亚一直是俄罗斯不可分割的一部分。”普京的演讲地点是克里姆林宫华丽的圣乔治厅(St. George’s Hall)，听众包括数百名议会成员、州长及其他人等。演讲长达47分钟，多次被雷鸣般的掌声打断，人们纷纷起立鼓掌，最后还高喊“俄罗斯，俄罗斯”。听众中有人擦拭眼泪。
Mr. Putin’s actions provoked renewed denunciations and threats of tougher sanctions and diplomatic isolation, though it remained unclear how far the West was willing to go to punish Mr. Putin. The United States, Europe and Ukraine vowed never to recognize what Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., visiting Poland, denounced as “nothing more than a land grab.” The leaders of what had been the Group of 8 nations announced they would meet next week as the Group of 7, excluding Russia from a club Russia once desperately craved to join.
普京的举动引发了新一轮的谴责及加紧制裁和外交孤立的威胁，但目前并不清楚，西方国家愿意以多么严厉的态度来惩罚普京。美国、欧洲和乌克兰誓称，绝不认可正在波兰访问的美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)所指责的“掠夺土地”行为。八国集团的领导人宣布他们将在下周举行七国集团会晤，将俄罗斯踢出了这个它曾迫切渴望加入的俱乐部。
Certainly the sanctions imposed on Russia ahead of Tuesday’s steps did nothing to dissuade Mr. Putin, as he rushed to make a claim to Crimea that he argued conformed to international law and precedent. And in his remarks he made clear that Russia was prepared to withstand worse punishment in the name of restoring a lost part of the country’s historic empire, effectively daring world leaders to sever political or economic ties and risk the consequences to their own economies.
各国周二之前向俄罗斯施加的制裁显然没能阻止普京，因为普京急不可耐地对克里米亚宣示了主权，并辩称此举符合国际法，遵循先例。普京讲话时明确表示，为了收复历史上俄罗斯帝国的一片失地，俄罗斯已经准备好承受更严厉的惩罚，由此向世界领导人发出了实实在在的挑战，看他们敢不敢冒着影响本国经济的风险，与俄罗斯断绝政治或经济关系。
Mr. Putin, the country’s paramount leader for more than 14 years, appeared to be gambling that the outrage would eventually pass, as it did after Russia’s war with Georgia in 2008, because a newly assertive Russia would be simply too important to ignore on the world stage. As with any gamble, though, the annexation of Crimea carries potentially grave risks.
已执掌俄罗斯逾14年的最高领导人普京似乎是在赌博，认为这一次的愤怒情绪终会消散，就像2008年俄罗斯与格鲁吉亚的战争结束后的情况一样，原因在于，新近强硬起来的俄罗斯非常重要，国际舞台无法将其忽略。然而，跟其他任何赌博一样，吞并克里米亚可能会带来严重风险。
Only hours after Mr. Putin declared that “not a single shot” had been fired in the military intervention in Crimea, a group of soldiers opened fire as they stormed a Ukrainian military mapping office near Simferopol, killing a Ukrainian soldier and wounding another, according to a Ukrainian officer inside the base and a statement by Ukraine’s Defense Ministry.
普京宣称，俄罗斯对克里米亚的军事干预行动“一枪未发”，然而，根据乌克兰军事基地一名军官透露的消息和该国国防部发表的一则声明，在普京如此断言短短几小时之后，一队士兵就袭击了辛菲罗波尔附近的一处乌克兰军事测绘办公室，并且开了枪，击毙一名乌克兰士兵，打伤一人。
The base appeared to be under the control of the attacking soldiers, who like most of the Russians in Crimea wore no insignia, and the ministry said that Ukrainian forces in Crimea were now authorized to use force to defend themselves.
该军事基地似乎已被突袭士兵控制，和在克里米亚境内的大多数俄军一样，这些士兵身上没有佩戴标志。乌克兰国防部说，目前，驻守克里米亚的乌军已获得武力自卫的授权。
The episode underscored the fact that the fate of hundreds of Ukrainian soldiers, as well military bases and ships, remains dangerously unresolved. In the capital, Kiev, Ukraine’s new prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, declared that the conflict had moved from “a political to a military phase” and laid the blame squarely on Russia.
这起事件突显了一个事实，即数百名乌克兰军人的命运依然处在悬而未决的危险状态，乌克兰的军事基地和舰船也是如此。在乌克兰首都基辅，新任总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)宣布，冲突已从“政治阶段转入军事阶段”，并且直截了当地指责俄方是罪魁祸首。
The speed of Mr. Putin’s annexation of Crimea, redrawing an international border that has been recognized as part of an independent Ukraine for 23 years, has been breathtaking and, so far, apparently unstoppable.
普京吞并克里米亚的行动速度惊人，迄今为止似乎不可阻挡。这次吞并重新勾画了一段国境线，过去23年里，国际社会一直承认国境线内的疆域是独立国家乌克兰的领土。
And it has left American and European leaders scrambling to find an adequate response after initially clinging to the hope that Mr. Putin was prepared to find a political solution – or “off ramp” – to an escalating crisis that began with the collapse of Viktor F. Yanukovych’s government on the night of Feb. 21.
此举迫使美国和欧洲领导人迅速拿出适当的应对方案，一开始，他们曾寄希望于普京愿意寻求政治解决方案——或者“脱困通道”——来消弭这场逐渐加剧的危机，危机的开端是维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的政府于2月21日晚垮台。
Within a week of that night, Russian special operations troops had seized control of strategic locations across Crimea, while the regional authorities moved to declare independence and schedule a referendum on joining Russia that was held on Sunday.
那晚之后，俄罗斯特种部队在一周内就控制了克里米亚各处的战略要地，地方当局开始准备宣布独立，并制定了在上周日举行加入俄罗斯公投的计划。
Even as others criticized the vote as a fraud, Mr. Putin moved quickly on Monday to recognize its result, which he called “more than convincing” with nearly 97 percent of voters in favor of seceding from Ukraine. By Tuesday he signed a treaty of accession with the region’s new leaders to make Crimea and the city of Sevastopol the 84th and 85th regions of the Russian Federation.
其他国家指责公投是一场骗局，普京却在本周一迅速作出回应，承认了公投结果。他说，鉴于有近97%的选民支持克里米亚脱离乌克兰，公投结果“极其令人信服”。到周二，他和克里米亚的新领导人签署了一份加盟条约，把克里米亚和塞瓦斯托波尔市划定为俄罗斯联邦的第84区和第85区。
The treaty requires legislative approval, but that is a mere formality given Mr. Putin’s unchallenged political authority and the wild popularity of his actions, which have raised his approval ratings and unleashed a nationalistic fervor that has drowned out the few voices of opposition or even caution about the potential costs to Russia.
该条约需要得到议会批准，不过，鉴于普京无可挑战的政治权威和他此举获得的巨大民意支持，议会的批准不过是走走过场而已。吞并行动提高了普京的支持率，释放了狂热的民族主义情绪，这股情绪淹没了少之又少的反对之声，甚至淹没了俄罗斯可能为此付出代价的警告之声。