MOSCOW — President Vladimir Putin leveraged his popularity to assert even greater control over Russia’s already malleable Parliament in national elections, with nearly complete results released Monday showing the ruling United Russia party gaining an absolute majority of seats.
莫斯科——弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)总统凭借自身的声望，通过全国大选进一步加大了对原本就颇为顺从的国会的控制。周一发布的几近完整的点算结果显示，执政党统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)获得绝大多数席位。
The landslide was made possible, in some part, by a record low voter turnout of just under 48 percent in elections Sunday for the 450-seat State Duma, or lower house of Parliament.
周日的大选旨在选出国家杜马（State Duma，又称国会下院）的450名议员，这种压倒性的胜利之所以成为可能，在某种程度上是因为选民投票率创下了不足48%的新低。
Voters in the largest cities, where opposition to Putin is concentrated, tended to stay home, while many rural voters, a bastion of support for the president, went to the polls. United Russia actually won far fewer votes this time than in the previous parliamentary election, in 2011, but it gained more seats because of the low turnout.
在反普京力量较为集中的大城市，选民倾向于待在家里；但在作为普京支持者大本营的乡村地区，许多选民都去了投票站。相较于2011年的那次议会选举，统俄党这一次实际赢得的选票要少得多，但由于投票率很低，它获得了更多席位。
“Voting against the authority in more traditional, rural areas of Russia is still something of a revolution,” said Abbas Gallyamov, a political scientist and an adviser to several candidates. “Opposition parties can only succeed in Russia when the turnout is high.”
“在更为传统的俄罗斯乡村地区，投票反对权威依然带有某种革命色彩，”为几名候选人担任顾问的政治学者阿巴斯·加利亚莫夫(Abbas Gallyamov)说。“只有等到投票率提高，反对党在俄罗斯才有可能成功。”
The outcome is not expected to bring much change, since Parliament already acquiesces to Putin’s every request. The result is something of a personal triumph for Putin, however, since votes for United Russia, controlled by the Kremlin, largely reflected how his popularity has risen since he annexed Crimea in 2014.
鉴于国会本就对普京俯首帖耳，选举结果应该不会带来太多改变。不过，这一结果是普京个人的某种胜利，因为由克里姆林宫掌控的统俄党得到的选票，在很大程度上反映了自普京于2014年吞并克里米亚以来的声望提高。
“In comparison to the 2011 campaign, the link to Putin was much stronger this time,” said Alexei Chesnakov, a former Kremlin political adviser and the director of the Center for Current Politics, a Moscow group that analyzes political and economic trends in Russia. No party presented a strong economic program to counter the current recession, he said, so in the end, those who voted chose the status quo.
“比起2011年的选战，这次选举和普京的关联更为密切，”克里姆林宫前政治顾问、当代政治中心(Center for Current Politics)主任阿历克谢·切斯纳科夫(Alexei Chesnakov)说。当代政治中心是莫斯科的一个分析俄罗斯政治经济趋势的机构。他说，所有政党都未提出应对当前衰退的有力经济方案，所以投票的人最终选择维持现状。
Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry S. Peskov, called the vote an endorsement of the president. “Once again the president gained an impressive vote of confidence from the people of this country,” Peskov told reporters.
普京的发言人迪米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitry S. Peskov)将此次选举称为对总统的背书。“总统再次获得了这个国家的人民投出的令人印象深刻的信任票，”佩斯科夫告诉记者。
Ella A. Pamfilova, head of the Central Election Commission, said she did not expect the numbers to shift with final tallies, to be issued Friday.
中央选举委员会(Central Election Commission)负责人艾拉·A·潘菲洛娃(Ella A. Pamfilova)说，她并不认为将于周五发布的最终计票结果会让票数出现反转。