Sofia, Bulgaria — “VLADIMIR VLADIMIROVICH, is war coming?”
保加利亚索菲亚——“弗拉基米尔·弗拉基米罗维奇，战争要来了吗？”
The question is asked in the first frame of “Myroporyadok” (“World Order”), a manifesto-style documentary aired in the last days of December on Russian state television. And in the following two-plus hours, President Vladimir V. Putin, aided by diplomats, policy analysts, conspiracy theorists and retired foreign statesmen, attempts to provide an answer.
俄罗斯国家电视台在12月底播出了一部题为《世界秩序》(Myroporyadok)的纪录片，这部宣言式的纪录片中的第一帧画面，就提出了这样一个问题。在接下来的两个多小时里，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在外交官、政策分析人士、阴谋论分子和外国退休政要的帮助下，尝试给出一个答案。
Though the Russian leader resists sounding the alarm, the audience is nonetheless convinced that if nothing changes in the coming months, the Big War could be imminent. And the Kremlin isn’t doing much to dissuade them: Days after the film’s airing, its new national security strategy, which declares NATO and the United States as fundamental threats to Russia’s future, was unveiled.
尽管普京有所克制，没有直接敲响警钟，但观众还是深信不疑地认为，如果未来几个月里不发生什么变化，一场大战就迫在眉睫。克里姆林宫并没有采取什么措施，让民众打消担忧：那部影片播出数日后，克里姆林宫就公布了新的国家安全战略，其中宣称北约(NATO)和美国是俄罗斯未来的根本威胁。
“Myroporyadok” is a powerful expression of the Kremlin’s present state of mind. It views the world as a place on the edge of collapse, chaotic and dangerous, where international institutions are ineffective, held hostage to the West’s ambitions and delusions. Nuclear weapons represent the sole guarantee of a country’s sovereignty, and sovereignty is demonstrated by a willingness and capacity to resist Washington’s hegemonic agenda.
《世界秩序》有力地表达了克里姆林宫当前的思维方式。它认为世界处在崩溃边缘，混乱、危险，国际机制并无成效，而且受到了西方野心和妄想的把持。核武器是该国主权唯一的保障，而要彰显主权，就要有抵御华盛顿的霸权主义议程的意愿和实力。
The film’s story line focuses repeatedly on NATO’s bombing of Yugoslavia, George W. Bush’s war in Iraq, the West’s misuse of a United Nations no-fly zone in Libya and the West’s insistent meddling in the domestic politics of post-Soviet states. This is all done to prove the film’s central point: that the West may carry on about values and principles, but all of that masks a realpolitik aimed at world domination.
影片的故事线索反复关注北约轰炸南斯拉夫、乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)发动伊拉克战争、西方滥用联合国在利比亚设立的禁飞区、西方一门心思地插手前苏联国家的国内政治。这些论据都是为了支撑影片的核心论点：尽管西方总是就价值观和原则提出抱怨，但其背后都掩盖着现实政治图谋，目的就是主导世界。
Some of the accusations have merit: The United States certainly bears considerable responsibility for the catastrophe in the Middle East. Some are patently false: Not every popular revolt in the world is a covert C.I.A. operation. But all of them carry more than a whiff of exaggeration. America, after all, is neither as powerful nor as malevolent as the Kremlin supposes.
其中的一些指控不无道理：美国肯定应该为中东的灾难承担相当的责任。另一些却显然是错的：世界上的诸多民变，并非每一起都是中央情报局策划的。但片中所有的论述都有相当多的夸张成分，毕竟美国并没有克里姆林宫想象的那样强大，也没有那样全能。
The central contradiction in Moscow’s view of American foreign policy is its failure to reconcile its insistence that America is a declining power with the tendency to explain everything that happens in the world as resulting from American foreign policy actions. Is Washington failing in its effort to bring stability to the Middle East? Or is keeping the region unstable the real objective of White House strategy? Improbably, Moscow believes in both.
俄罗斯对美国外交政策的看法中，有一个核心缺陷，即一方面坚称美国是一个正在衰落的大国，另一方面又倾向于把世界上发生的所有事情，都解释成是美国外交政策带来的行动造成的。这两方面的论述有无法调和的矛盾：华盛顿努力给中东带来稳定，但失败了；还是说白宫战略的真实目的就是让中东持续不稳定？出人意料的是，这两点俄罗斯都相信。
More important, the film is a challenge to the widely accepted view of Mr. Putin as a coldblooded realist, a cynic who believes in nothing but power and spends his days poring over maps and checking his bank statements. In “Myroporyadok,” we find Mr. Putin the angry moralist who, similar to European populists and third-world radicals, experiences the world through the lens of humiliation and exclusion. As Mr. Putin’s close adviser, Vladislav Surkov, once wrote: “We still look like those guys from the working part of town suddenly finding ourselves in the business district. And they’ll swindle us for sure if we keep stumbling backward and dropping our jaws.”
更重要的是，这部影片挑战了外界对普京的一种看法。这种广为接受的看法认为，普京是一个冷血的现实主义者，是一个除了权力之外什么都不信的阴暗的人，他每天都盯着地图端详，不断地查自己账户上有都少钱。在《世界秩序》中，我们发现普京是一个愤怒的道德家，他像欧洲的民粹主义者和第三世界的激进分子一样，从羞辱和排斥的角度来感知世界。作为普京的亲密顾问，弗拉迪斯拉夫·苏可夫(Vladislav Surkov)曾经写道：“我们看起来还是像从工人聚居区出来，刚到商务区的家伙。如果我们时常惊讶得踉踉跄跄、目瞪口呆，他们肯定会坑我们的。”
Such exclusion fuels distrust and the tendency to view the world as a family drama structured around love, hate and betrayal. It is this sensitivity, rather than 19th-century realpolitik, that explains most of Moscow’s policies in recent years.
这种被排斥的感觉催生了不信任，以及一种用家庭剧的爱恨、背叛来解读世界格局的倾向。莫斯科近几年的大多数政策，可以用这种敏感心态，而不是19世纪式的现实政治来解释。
Russian-Turkish relations are a case in point. Rather than adhering to any foreign-policy realism, the Kremlin seems to have adopted a policy of Great Power sentimentality. Until two months ago, Ankara was Russia’s strategic ally in its struggle for a multipolar world. Turkey had been a brother-in-resentment, the only NATO member that refused to join in sanctions against Moscow after Russia’s annexation of Crimea. Ankara occupied a central place in Moscow’s energy diplomacy.
俄罗斯与土耳其的关系就是一个恰当的案例。克里姆林宫并没有奉行什么外交政策的现实主义，而是似乎采取了一种基于强国心态的政策。直到两个月前，土耳其在俄罗斯极力构建多极世界的努力中，还是一个战略盟友。土耳其和俄罗斯同样愤世嫉俗，并因此仿佛兄弟，也是俄罗斯吞并克里米亚之后，唯一拒绝对莫斯科采取联合制裁的北约成员国。土耳其在俄罗斯的能源外交中曾经占据着核心地位。
But it was enough for a Turkish missile to hit a Russian plane on the Syrian border, and suddenly the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was not a friend anymore, but a traitor who was “aiding terrorists,” Mr. Putin said, sounding personally offended.
但土耳其导弹在叙利亚边境击落一架俄罗斯飞机，就足以让俄罗斯变脸。土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)突然不再是朋友了，而是成了普京所说的“支持恐怖分子”的叛徒，口气仿佛是他本人受到了冒犯。
At the heart of Russian foreign policy sentimentalism is a tendency to view relationships between states as relations between leaders. It is this highly personalized view of the world that helps explain why Mr. Putin, the man who seeks to defeat America, is such an enthusiastic supporter of Donald J. Trump, the “brilliant and talented leader” who promises to make America great again.
在俄罗斯感情用事的外交政策中，一种重要趋势是将国与国的关系视作领导人之间的关系。这种高度个人化的世界观，有助于解释为什么处心积虑击败美国的普京如此热情地支持唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)——承诺让美国重归伟大的“非常聪明、很有才华的领导人”。
Mr. Putin’s predilection for Mr. Trump has nothing to do with the Kremlin’s traditional preference for Republicans. It also can’t be explained by the fact that had Mr. Putin — a physically sound, aging, gun-loving and anti-gay conservative — been an American citizen, he would have fit the profile of a Trump supporter. Nor is it a function of tactical considerations: that the nutty billionaire would divide America and make it look ridiculous.
普京对特朗普的偏爱，与克里姆林宫偏好共和党的传统毫无关系。普京身体结实、喜爱枪械、反对同性恋、已经上了年纪，而且立场保守，如果他是美国公民，肯定符合特朗普支持者的特征，但这也不能解释他对特朗普的偏爱。特朗普这个疯狂的大款会让美国陷入分歧，进而让美国显得很可笑，不过普京对特朗普的偏爱也不是出于这样的小算盘。
Rather, Mr. Putin’s puzzling enthusiasm for Mr. Trump is rooted in the fact that they both live in a soap-opera world run by emotions rather than interests. Perhaps Mr. Putin trusts Mr. Trump because the American businessman reminds him of the only true friend the Russian president has had among world leaders, the former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi.
普京对特朗普充满热情，这种令人困惑态度的根源，是他们两人都生活在肥皂剧的世界里，那里靠情绪运转，而不是靠利益。普京之所以信任特朗普，或许是因为这个美国商人让他想起了自己在世界领导人当中唯一真正的朋友，意大利前总理西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)。
In “Myroporyadok,” there is a lot of discussion about new rules and institutions, about Yalta and about the United Nations. But its message is clear: In a world where hypocrisy holds sway, only angry outsiders can be trusted.
在《世界秩序》片中，对于新的规则和机构有过很多讨论，比如关于雅尔塔体系和联合国的讨论。但其中心思想是明确的：在一个由虚伪把持的世界里，只有愤怒的局外人才能信任。