MOSCOW —President Vladimir V. Putin seemed to be in top form during a news conference in China on Tuesday, answering a question about President Trump by saying the American leader is “not my bride, and I am not his groom.”
莫斯科——周二在中国的一场新闻发布会上，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)似乎状态颇佳。在被问及特朗普总统时，他说美国总统“不是我的新娘，我也不是他的新郎”。
While the comment could be interpreted as a subtle jab by a macho Mr. Putin against an equally macho counterpart, the Russian president offered it as an explanation of why he could not comment on domestic American politics.
尽管这番言论可以解读成充满男子气概的普京对同样充满男子气概的特朗普的巧妙攻击，但普京把它作为了自己为何不能评论美国国内政治的一个解释。
It came in response to a question about whether the Russian leader takes into account the possibility of Mr. Trump being impeached. Mr. Putin refused to answer, but he did say that Moscow reserved the right to respond to the United States’ having ordered the closing of the Russian Consulate in San Francisco and of two other annexes, the latest move in a diplomatic tit-for-tat between the two countries.
普京是在被问到他是否考虑到了特朗普被弹劾的可能性时作出上述表述的。他拒绝回答这个问题，但的确表示莫斯科保留对美国下令关闭俄罗斯驻旧金山领事馆和另外两处附属机构作出回应的权利。下令关闭俄方外交机构是两国在外交上争锋相对的最新动向。
Mr. Putin also condemned North Korea’s most recent nuclear tests, but said he doubted sanctions would deter the secretive country’s leaders. “They would rather eat grass than give up their nuclear program,” he said.
普京还谴责朝鲜最近的核试验，但表示他怀疑制裁并不会对这个神秘国家的领导人起到威慑作用。“他们宁愿吃草，也不会放弃核计划，”他说。
Mr. Putin is in Xiamen, China, for a meeting of leaders from the so-called BRICS group, a quintet of nations — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — once hailed as dynamic and fast-growing, but that have fallen, to varying degrees, on hard times.
普京正在中国厦门参加所谓的“金砖国家”(BRICS Group)领导人会议。金砖国家指的是巴西、俄罗斯、印度、中国和南非五国。它们曾经被誉为充满活力、增长迅速，但现在都不同程度地陷入了困境。
At the news conference, he called the shuttering of some Russian diplomatic facilities in the United States “an obvious violation of property rights” and said that, “for starters,” he would instruct the Foreign Ministry to challenge the decision in court.
在新闻发布会上，他说关闭俄罗斯在美国的部分外交机构“显然侵犯了财产权”，并表示，“首先”，他会指示外交部在法庭上挑战该决定。
“We’ll see how efficient the much-praised American judiciary is,” he added.
“我们要看看备受赞扬的美国司法系统效率有多高，”他接着说。
Failing that, Mr. Putin said he could reduce United States diplomatic staff in Russia by 155 more positions, in addition to the 755 already eliminated. “But we won’t do that yet,” he said. “Let’s see how the situation develops.”
否则，普京说，除了已经取消的755个岗位外，他会把美国在俄罗斯的外交岗位再减少155个。“但我们还没这么做，”他说。“先看看形势怎么发展。”
Mr. Putin said he was not happy about the “boorish manner” in which Russia was stripped of diplomatic property in the United States.
普京说他对俄罗斯在美外交财产被以“粗鲁的方式”剥夺感到不满。
“It’s hard to deal with people who confuse Austria and Australia, but there’s nothing you can do about this,” he said, probably referring generally to Washington foreign policy circles, though the original gaffe is attributed to former President George W. Bush. “Apparently, this is the level of political culture within a certain part of the U.S. establishment.”
“很难和把奥地利和澳大利亚混为一谈的人打交道，但你却无能为力，”普京说。他可能是泛指华盛顿的外交政策圈，不过这番失言出自前美国总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)。“显然，这就是美国某一部分权势集团内部的政治文化水平。”
Mr. Putin also said he would propose to the United Nations Security Council that it place an international peacekeeping force in eastern Ukraine, where Russia has propped up rebel separatists for three years. The troops would support the monitoring mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
普京还表示他会向联合国安理会提议在乌克兰东部部署一支国际维和部队。俄罗斯对该地区的武装分离分子的支持已持续了三年。维和部队会支持欧洲安全与合作组织（Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe，简称OSCE）的监测团。
“I consider the presence of peacekeepers — one could call them not peacekeepers but people who ensure the safety of the OSCE mission — to be completely appropriate,” he said.
“我认为部署维和人员——可以不叫他们维和人员，但他们能确保OSCE代表团的安全——非常合适，”他说。