MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin on Saturday eased a sweeping ban on public protests in Sochi, Russia, starting on Tuesday and continuing through the Olympic Games next month and the Paralympic Games in March. However, any demonstrations will require approval in advance from the authorities.
莫斯科——周六，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)放松了针对索契公共抗议的大范围禁令。该禁令将于周二生效，并将一直持续到下个月的奥运会和3月的残奥会。禁令虽然有所放松，但任何示威活动还是需要提前得到官方批准。
The ban, which Mr. Putin ordered in August, had prompted criticism from rights groups and concern from the International Olympic Committee. The new order, posted on the Kremlin’s website, seemed to be an effort to burnish Russia’s reputation before the Olympics. It followed the release of some of the nation’s most prominent prisoners, including the tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, two performers from the punk band Pussy Riot and 30 Greenpeace activists.
普京去年8月颁布的这条禁令受到了维权组织的批评，也引起了国际奥委会(International Olympic Committee)的关注。前述新命令发布在克里姆林宫的网站上，似乎是为了在奥运会之前改善俄罗斯的声誉。此前，俄罗斯还释放了一些最有名的囚犯，其中包括商业大亨米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B.Khodorkovsky)、朋克乐队Pussy Riot的两名成员，以及30名绿色和平(Greenpeace)组织活动人士。
The announcement completed plans that had been in the works to allow approved protests at a park in the Khosta district, about halfway between central Sochi and the Adler district, where the main Olympic Village is.
这项公告完成了此前一直处于准备阶段的计划；根据相关计划，得到批准的抗议活动可以在霍斯塔区(Khosta)的一个公园里举行，该区位于索契中部和阿德勒区(Adler)中间，阿德勒区是主要奥运村所在地。
“Please, everybody, welcome,” Dmitry Chernyshenko, president of the Olympic organizing committee, said in December when asked about criticism of Russia on issues like political freedoms, gay rights, and environmental damage from construction in Sochi. “You’re free to express those opinions during the Games.”
“来吧，我们欢迎每个人，”去年12月，有人问及俄罗斯因政治自由、同性恋权益和索契建筑工程对环境的破坏等问题而受到的批评，冬奥会组委会主席德米特里·切尔内申科(Dmitry Chernyshenko)说。“比赛期间，你可以自由地表达相关意见。”
The protest zone, about nine miles from the nearest Olympic site, is similar to three created by the Chinese government during the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. In China, however, the authorities refused to grant permission for any rallies and harassed or arrested those who applied.
抗议区离最近的奥运会场地大约9英里（约合14.5公里），与中国政府2008年奥运会期间在北京划定的三个区域相似。然而，中国官方拒绝为任何集会提供许可，还对申请人进行了骚扰或逮捕。
Tanya Lokshina, Russia director at Human Rights Watch, said the easing of the ban was part of Russia’s “efforts to convince critics that it’s a democracy where freedom of expression is respected within reasonable limits.”
人权观察组织驻俄罗斯的负责人塔尼娅·洛克申娜(Tanya Lokshina)称，俄罗斯放宽这条禁令是“为了让批评者相信这是一个民主国家，言论自由在合理范围内受到尊重”。
“I suggest they shouldn’t let themselves be convinced that easily,” Ms. Lokshina said.
洛克申娜说，“我认为，他们不应该如此轻易地相信俄罗斯。”
The restrictions on protests are part of some of the most extensive security measures ever put in place for an international sporting event. Terrorism has been a concern at all Olympic Games, but more so in Sochi because of the simmering Islamic insurgency in the North Caucasus, not far away.
索契冬奥会安保措施的全面程度堪称国际体育赛事史上之最，针对抗议活动的前述限制也是措施之一。恐怖主义是所有奥运会都需要担心的问题，但这种担忧在索契更加严重，因为相距不远的北高加索地区存在长期发酵的伊斯兰反抗活动。
Twin suicide bombings that killed at least 34 people last week in Volgograd, about 400 miles northeast of Sochi, raised new fears that followers of the terrorist leader Doku Umarov intended to make good on his threat last summer to disrupt the Games.
上周，索契以北约400英里（约合640公里）的伏尔加格勒发生了两起自杀式炸弹袭击事件，导致至少34人死亡。袭击事件致使人们再次担忧，恐怖组织领袖多库·乌马罗夫(Doku Umarov)的追随者会兑现乌马罗夫去年夏天发出的威胁，对冬奥会进行破坏。
Beginning on Tuesday, the authorities will ban unregistered vehicles in Sochi and increase security in public places. Russia’s equivalent of the National Security Agency is reported to have created a system to intercept any phone calls or emails to or from people in the area. Visitors to the Games, which begin Feb. 7, will have specially encoded passes in addition to tickets for events. Anyone seeking to hold a demonstration will have to get approval from the mayor’s office and the Federal Security Service, the domestic successor to the K.G.B.
从周二开始，当局将禁止未登记的车辆在索契行驶，并增强公共场所的安全措施。据报道，与美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)职能相当的俄罗斯机构已设立了一个系统，用以拦截该地区手机用户接听和拨打的电话，以及收发的电子邮件。冬奥会将于2月7日开幕。届时，除赛事门票外，观众还需持有经过特殊加密的通行证。想要举行抗议的人必须得到市长办公室和俄罗斯联邦安全局(Federal Security Service)的批准。联邦安全局接手了克格勃(KGB)的国内事务。
The Kremlin issued the new order as Mr. Putin toured Sochi for a second day to oversee final preparations of the two “clusters” of Olympic facilities: one in the mountains at Krasnaya Polyana, where he skied, and one on the coast, where he played hockey on a team that included the retired Russian hockey star Pavel Bure and the president of Belarus, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko. (Mr. Putin’s team won, 12-3.)
克里姆林宫发布前述最新命令之时，正值普京视察索契的第二天。普京此次视察是为了检查两处奥运设施“群落”的最后筹备工作。其中一处是位于山区的斯纳亚波利亚纳，普京在这里滑了雪。另一处位于海边。在那里，普京和俄罗斯退役冰球明星帕维尔·布尔(Pavel Bure)以及白俄罗斯总统亚历山大·G·卢卡申科(Aleksandr G. Lukashenko)组队进行了一场冰球比赛。（普京所在的队伍以12比3获胜。）
Mr. Putin was accompanied by many senior government officials, underscoring the prominence of the Olympic project. With only five weeks to the opening ceremony, some sites are not ready, including the main stadium, where the opening and closing ceremonies are to take place, and the ski jump, plagued by scandal and cost overruns.
陪同普京视察的有许多政府高官，突显了冬奥会的重要性。现在距离冬奥会开幕仅剩五周时间，但一些场馆仍未就绪，其中包括将举行开幕式和闭幕式的主体育场，以及深受丑闻和超支困扰的跳台滑雪场馆。
Vladimir I. Yakunin, the president of Russian Railways, which built a network of train lines connecting Sochi to the Olympic sites, joined Mr. Putin as he rode the train from the mountains to the coastal cluster.
俄铁(Russian Railways)建造了一个铁路网络，将索契和各个奥运场馆连在了一起。俄铁总裁弗拉基米尔·I·亚库宁(Vladimir I. Yakunin)陪同普京乘火车从山区前往前述海边场馆。
“The most difficult stage of the preparation of our facilities is finished,” Mr. Yakunin told reporters, according to the Interfax news agency. “Of course, there are some details to be finished, but in general everything is ready.”
据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)报道，亚库宁告诉记者，“最困难的设施筹备阶段已经结束了。当然，还有一些细节有待完善，但总体上一切就绪。”