MOSCOW — THE decision of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, to send forces into Crimea provoked a hysterical reaction, but his motives are less ambitious than is commonly assumed.
莫斯科——俄罗斯总统普京向克里米亚派兵的决定引起了一片仓皇，但他的动机并不像人们通常以为的那么野心勃勃。
Mr. Putin’s aim is not a de jure separation of Crimea from the rest of Ukraine. That would be legally problematic and disadvantageous to Moscow in terms of its future influence over Ukrainian politics. The purpose of Russia’s incursion was to obtain the greatest possible autonomy for Crimea while still retaining formal Ukrainian jurisdiction over the peninsula.
普京的目的不是把克里米亚正式从乌克兰分裂出来。那会存在法律上的问题，而且不利于莫斯科今后对乌克兰政治施加影响力。俄罗斯入侵的真正目的，是为了让克里米亚获得尽可能多的自主权，同时让乌克兰仍然在名义上保留对这个半岛的管辖权。
A referendum on March 30 is likely to result in a vote for further autonomy, and it would provide Crimea with such broad freedoms that it would become a de facto Russian protectorate. Moscow would then aim to keep the Russian Black Sea fleet in Crimea indefinitely, and remove any limits on its operations, size and replenishment.
3月30日的公投可能会导致克里米亚享有更大的自治权，这会让该地区获得足够多的自由，以至于事实上成为俄罗斯的被保护国。接下来，莫斯科将会让俄罗斯黑海舰队常驻克里米亚，令其在行动、规模和补给方面不受任何限制。
At present, Mr. Putin is seeking to strong-arm the new, weak and unstable government in Kiev into agreeing to full autonomy for Crimea rather than risk a full scale invasion into Ukraine and a partition that chops off the country’s entire south and east. The intimidated government is likely to be compelled to accept this compromise. For its part, in exchange for major Ukrainian concessions, Russia is likely to recognize the new Ukrainian government, withdraw its support for Viktor F. Yanukovych and relinquish the threat of the use of force.
眼下，普京正在寻求的是对脆弱、不稳定的基辅新政府强势施压，迫使其同意让克里米亚完全自治，而不是冒险全面入侵乌克兰，吞并该国整个南部和东部地区。受胁迫的乌克兰政府很可能不得不妥协。就俄罗斯自身而言，为了换取乌克兰的重大让步，它可能会承认乌克兰新政府，放弃对维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的支持，并撤销动武威胁。
This strategy seems to be paying off already. The mere specter of a Russian intervention was enough for the new Ukrainian government to abandon its threat of reducing autonomy for the “rebellious” peninsula. The acting president, Oleksandr V. Turchynov, has also announced that he will veto the scandalous Feb. 24 law that canceled Russian’s status as an official language. The West is likely to accept any agreement that does not formally violate the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Their rhetoric notwithstanding, neither the United States nor the European Union has any desire for direct confrontation with Russia.
这个策略似乎已见成效。俄罗斯仅仅是做了一些形式上的干预，就足以让新乌克兰政府放弃关于削弱“叛逆的”克里米亚半岛自治权的威胁。代理总统奥列克桑德尔·V·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr V. Turchynov)日前也宣布，他将否决2月24日那项取消俄语官方语言地位的挑衅性法律。西方则可能会接受任何不会真正危害到乌克兰领土完整的协议。无论美国还是欧盟，尽管口气强硬，其实都无意与俄罗斯进行直接对抗。
It wouldn’t be surprising if Mr. Putin soon magnanimously announced his readiness to compromise and “guarantee the territorial integrity of Ukraine,” which the Kremlin actually never intended to violate in the first place.
所以，如果普京很快就大度地宣布他愿意妥协，并愿意“保证乌克兰的领土完整”，那也不足为奇，因为克里姆林宫本来就从未有过占据乌克兰领土的打算。
That’s because Russia has a strong interest in nominally retaining Crimea as part of Ukraine. From the disintegration of the Soviet Union onward, Crimea, with its traditionally separatist leanings, was always a destabilizing factor. It served as a direct avenue of Russian pressure on Ukraine, and also guaranteed almost a million “pro-Russian” votes in Ukrainian elections, ensuring the dominance of the pro-Russian eastern half of the country over the nationalist western half.
这是因为，让克里米亚继续在名义上作为乌克兰领土的一部分对俄罗斯非常有利。自从苏联解体以来，历来都有分离主义倾向的克里米亚始终都是一个不稳定因素。它不仅成为了俄罗斯对乌克兰施加压力一个直接门户，而且也在乌克兰选举中提供了近百万张“亲俄”选票，确保了该国亲俄罗斯的东半部对民族主义的西半部的钳制。
If the Ukrainian nationalists had been smarter and more farsighted, they themselves would have advocated a renunciation of claims to Crimea in order to remove this needle in their side, but their desire for a Greater Ukraine has trumped sober political calculations.
如果乌克兰民族主义者更精明、更有远见的话，他们自己就会主动倡导放弃对克里米亚的主权，从而摆脱掉这个麻烦，然而，他们对“大乌克兰”的欲望战胜了清醒的政治判断。
Mr. Putin is a more farsighted and coldblooded calculator. He will therefore strive to keep Crimea as part of Ukraine, but as a reinforced instrument of Russian influence over politics in Kiev — and a powerful example for pro-Russian populations in other regions.
普京是一个更有远见、也更冷血的算计者。因此，他会努力让克里米亚继续作为乌克兰的一部分，成为俄罗斯对基辅政局施加影响力的有效工具——同时为其他地区的亲俄罗斯群体树立一个强有力的榜样。
It’s difficult to imagine just what the new rulers in Kiev and their Western supporters thought would happen if they overthrew a democratically elected leader. Indeed, since 1992, when Kiev sparred with Moscow over Crimea’s status as part of the newly independent Ukraine, it has been clear that the Russian forces stationed there (including the Black Sea Fleet) would not remain neutral if tensions erupted. Denouncing Russian aggression is therefore disingenuous, because everyone knew that Russian involvement was inevitable if the region’s fragile political balance was disturbed. That balance held for two decades, but the Kiev upheaval laid waste to it.
很难想象，基辅新的统治者和他们的西方支持者在推翻一名民选领袖之前，他们想象会发生什么。的确，自从1992年，在克里米亚成为新独立的乌克兰的一部分的问题上，基辅和莫斯科发生争执以来，有一点就非常清楚：如果紧张局势爆发的话，驻扎在那里的俄罗斯军队（包括黑海舰队）将不会保持中立。因此，对俄罗斯入侵行为进行谴责是不真诚的表现，因为人人都知道，如果该地区脆弱的政治平衡被打破的话，俄罗斯的参与是不可避免的。这种平衡保持了20年，但已经被基辅的动荡所打破。
Western governments, meanwhile, brought a crisis upon themselves by supporting the seizure of power by forces that were manifestly unrepresentative of the full political spectrum of Ukraine and its various regions.
与此同时，通过支持一些势力夺取政权，西方国家政府把危机引到了自己身上，因为这些势力明显无法代表乌克兰及其不同地区的所有政治派别，。
The final act in Mr. Putin’s calculated gambit is likely to be a return of Yulia V. Tymoshenko to power. It was, after all, Ms. Tymoshenko, not Mr. Yanukovych, who enjoyed Moscow’s de facto support in the Ukrainian elections of 2010; and in later years, Mr. Putin expressed his strong displeasure with her prosecution by Mr. Yanukovych’s government. Although she was released from prison last month, Ms. Tymoshenko was hardly celebrated by the Ukrainian ultranationalists in control of the Maidan. Now it seems that her hour has arrived.
普京精心设计的策略的最后一着可能是让尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)重新掌权。毕竟，在2010年的乌克兰大选中，获得了莫斯科实际支持的是季莫申科，而不是亚努科维奇；在随后的几年中，普京也表达了他对亚努科维奇政府起诉季莫申科的强烈不悦。尽管上个月被从监狱释放，我们完全无法说季莫申科获得了控制独立广场的乌克兰极端民族主义者的支持。现在，她的运气似乎来了。
Mr. Putin’s threat of invading Ukraine makes Ms. Tymoshenko the only national leader with the authority and capability to forge an agreement with Russia. Having made a string of the appropriate patriotic statements, Ms. Tymoshenko has already announced her readiness to talk to Mr. Putin “for Ukraine’s sake.” She is likely to return triumphant, having “stopped” the invasion of the “Russian horde,” and even with some Russian financial aid.
普京威胁入侵乌克兰，这让季莫申科成了唯一拥有与俄罗斯达成协议的权力和能力的国家领袖。在发表了一系列恰到好处的爱国言论之后，季莫申科宣布，她已经准备好“为了乌克兰的利益”与普京展开对话。她很可能在“阻止俄罗斯人”的进犯，甚至获得一些俄罗斯的经济援助之后凯旋而归。
The net result of yet another Ukrainian revolution will be de facto Russian control of Crimea, and a Kiev government commercially and personally bound to Mr. Putin. A weaker and more destabilized Ukraine will continue zigzagging between East and West, until the next cycle of tumultuous Ukrainian politics arrives.
乌克兰再次发生革命的最终结果就是，克里米亚落入俄罗斯的控制，而基辅政府在经济上和私下里都将受制于普京。一个变得更加软弱和不稳定的乌克兰将继续在东西方之间游走不定，直到下一轮乌克兰政治骚乱的来临。
The losers will be those simpletons of international politics — including the United States — who mistook the clashes of some Ukrainian neo-Nazis with Mr. Yanukovych’s police force for the dawning of democracy and the beginning of a Ukrainian Spring.
失败者将会是那些国际政治白痴——包括美国——它们把一些乌克兰新纳粹主义分子和亚努科维奇政府的警察力量之间的冲突，当成了民主的曙光和乌克兰之春的开始。