MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin, faced with rising violence in southeastern Ukraine that threatened to draw in the Russian Army at great cost and prompt severe new Western economic sanctions, pressed pause on Wednesday in what had started to look like an inevitable march toward war.
莫斯科——目前，乌克兰东南部的暴力正在升级，可能会使俄罗斯军队以高昂代价卷入其中，并促使西方国家实施新的严厉经济制裁。当前形势似乎正在无可挽回地走向战争，鉴于此，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周三极力要求结束这种局面。
But it remained unclear to analysts and political leaders on both sides of the Atlantic whether he was truly reversing course on Ukraine or if this was just another of his judo-inspired feints.
然而，大西洋两岸的分析人士和政治领袖都不清楚，他究竟是真的打算改变自己的乌克兰策略，还是又一次打起了太极拳。
Using a far less ominous tone than in previous remarks about Ukraine, Mr. Putin told a news conference at the Kremlin that Russia had withdrawn the troops menacing Ukraine from along the border and that he had asked separatists to drop plans for a referendum on sovereignty this Sunday. Russia would even accept Ukraine’s presidential election on May 25, he said, if demands for autonomy from the country’s east were recognized.
在克里姆林宫的新闻发布会上提到乌克兰问题时，普京的语气比以往柔和了许多。他说，俄罗斯已经从边境沿线撤走了威慑乌克兰的部队，而他也已经要求分离主义者放弃周日的主权公投计划。他说，如果有关方面认可乌克兰东部的自治要求，俄罗斯甚至会接受乌克兰5月25日的总统选举。
Mr. Putin said Russia wanted to spur mediation efforts led by the Europeans. He said he did not know whether talks between the warring sides in Ukraine were “realistic,” but was determined to give them a chance, in particular a suggestion from Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany that the factions engage in a round-table discussion.
普京称，俄罗斯愿意推动欧洲牵头的斡旋努力。他说，他不知道要求乌克兰交战双方进行和谈是否“现实”，但却决定给他们一个机会，并且尤其支持德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)关于各方举行圆桌会谈的提议。
“I simply believe that if we want to find a long-term solution to the crisis in Ukraine, open, honest and equal dialogue is the only possible option,” he said.
他说，“我只是认为，如果我们要为乌克兰危机找到一个长期的解决方案，公开、诚实和平等的对话是唯一的选择。”
While Western governments welcomed Mr. Putin’s apparent about-face, there was also abundant skepticism, based in part on his record in Crimea. Mr. Putin repeatedly denied that Russia’s soldiers were involved in the region, only to admit later that they were.
虽然西方政府对普京明显的态度转变表示欢迎，但鉴于普京处理克里米亚事件的方式，人们仍有很多怀疑。普京曾多次否认俄罗斯军队干预了克里米亚局势，到后来才承认这个事实。
A White House spokesman, Josh Earnest, told reporters traveling with President Obama aboard Air Force One that while the United States would welcome a Russian military pullback, “there has been no evidence that such a withdrawal has taken place.” NATO officials confirmed that on Wednesday, saying they saw no troop movements.
白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)告诉与奥巴马总统一同乘坐空军一号的记者，虽然美国愿意看到俄罗斯撤军，“但目前并无证据表明俄罗斯已经撤军”。北约(NATO)官员于周三确认称，他们没有看到军队调动的情况。
Senior British officials also reacted warily to Mr. Putin’s announcement, noting that he had once before announced a sizable troop withdrawal from the border, in a phone call with Mrs. Merkel, but moved only one battalion a modest distance. One official said that satellite photos that would better verify Mr. Putin’s assertions would take a while to come through.
对于普京的声明，英国高级官员的反应也很谨慎。他们指出，普京之前就曾在与默克尔通话时表示要从边境大规模撤军，后来却只是把一个军营移到了稍远的地方。一名官员称，稍后才能获得能更好验证普京言论的卫星照片。
Nevertheless, British officials regarded Mr. Putin’s comments as positive. They suggested that he wants to avoid a larger economic confrontation with the United States and the European Union and that some of the concerns of Russian businessmen may finally be getting through to the tight circle around Mr. Putin.
尽管如此，英国官员仍将普京的言论视为一个积极的进展。他们指出，普京是想避免与美国和欧盟发生更大经济对抗，此外，普京周围的小圈子可能最终意识到了部分俄罗斯商人的担心。
While the world was caught off guard by Mr. Putin’s sudden peace offensive, analysts in Moscow cited several robust military, economic and political reasons he might be inclined to switch tracks.
虽然普京突如其来的和平攻势让世界感到意外，但莫斯科分析人士认为，基于几个突出的军事、经济和政治原因，他可能愿意改变路线。
First, there has been an increasing sense here, as elsewhere, that conditions in Ukraine were rapidly approaching the situation in Yugoslavia in 1991, when the former Soviet satellite broke into pieces. The violence among various factions was creating facts on the ground, they said, that nobody could predict or manage.
首先，与其他地方一样，莫斯科也越来越觉得，乌克兰的局势正在快速接近南斯拉夫1991年的局势。当时，前苏联的卫星国家南斯拉夫最终分崩离析。他们说，各个派别之间的暴力正在制造没人能够预测或控制的状况。
The other reasons follow a certain logic. Mr. Putin wants to shape Ukraine’s future, but an invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Army would be wildly expensive, bloody and unpredictable. Even a nominally successful invasion could breed an insurgency in the east by pro-Ukrainian militants, while the partition of the country would stick Russia with a failed state in southeast Ukraine that would take tens of billions to restructure. It would also create an implacably anti-Russian and pro-European state in western Ukraine that would most likely join NATO as fast as it could.
其他原因遵循着一个特定的逻辑。普京希望塑造乌克兰的未来，但俄军入侵乌克兰的举措将会极其昂贵、血腥，结果也无法预测。即使入侵取得了名义上的成功，东部的亲乌克兰激进分子也有可能发起暴动，而乌克兰的分裂也会让俄罗斯和乌克兰东南部的一个失控国家绑在一起，重建这个国家需要大量资金。它还会在乌克兰西部制造出一个立场坚定的反俄亲欧国家，这个国家极有可能会尽快加入北约。
And an invasion would almost certainly galvanize the European Union into joining the United States in imposing much tougher sanctions that might target entire sections of the Russian economy, like banking, energy or steel.
而且，入侵几乎必然会刺激欧盟加入美国的阵营，实施远比目前严厉的制裁，制裁的目标可能是俄罗斯经济的各行各业，比如银行、能源和钢铁。
Analysts suggested that if eastern Ukraine were to vote in the referendum Sunday to join Russia, or for independence, or if they demanded Russian protection in some orchestrated way, Mr. Putin would be forced to react, given his past statements about Russia’s responsibility to ensure the safety of ethnic Russians beyond its borders.
分析人士认为，如果乌克兰东部在周日的公投中投票赞成加入俄罗斯，或是选择独立，或是要求俄罗斯提供某种全面保护，普京将被迫做出反应，因为他过去曾多次发表声明，称俄罗斯有责任确保境外俄罗斯人的安全。
“The decision was taken not to increase Russian involvement in Ukraine, and not to increase the chances of major violence there,” said Konstantin von Eggert, an independent political analyst and a commentator for Kommersant FM radio.
“这一决定不是为了加大俄罗斯对乌克兰事务的参与，也不是为了增加那里发生大规模暴力事件的可能性，”独立政治分析人士、“生意人”电台(Kommersant FM)评论员康斯坦丁·冯·埃格特(Konstantin von Eggert)说。
Most analysts believe that Mr. Putin wanted to avoid war, and say that a minor armed incursion into Ukraine would not have been enough to resolve the crisis. Instead, it could easily have developed into a long, bloody and expensive slog, bruising the reputation he gained from annexing Crimea with virtually no bloodshed.
大多数分析人士认为普京希望避免战争，并且表示，对乌克兰的小规模武装入侵不足以解决此次危机。相反，它很可能会发展成一场历时长久、伤亡惨重、代价高昂的艰苦战争，损害他凭借兵不血刃吞并克里米亚赢得的声望。
“This one would not have been bloodless,” Mr. von Eggert said. “This would have been a real war, not by stealth, not by new methods, but a real old-fashioned war, and this is something that Mr. Putin does not want.”
“这一次不可能兵不血刃，”冯·埃格特说，“这一次将是真正的战争，不是通过秘密活动和新方式，而是一场真正的老式战争，这是普京不希望看到的。”
The reaction in Kiev and among separatists in southeast Ukraine was a combination of suspicion and mistrust.
基辅方面和乌克兰东南部分裂分子对此的反应都是怀疑和不信任。
In Kiev, Andriy Parubiy, the head of Ukraine’s national security council, said that Mr. Putin’s remarks were “clear evidence” of what Moscow had been denying all along, that the separatist movement was directed from Russia.
在基辅，乌克兰国家安全委员会主席安德里·帕鲁比(Andriy Parubiy)表示，普京的话“清楚地证明了”莫斯科一直否认的真相，那就是分裂活动是由俄罗斯指挥的。
“We understand that the center of the Ukrainian crisis is not in Slovyansk, not in Donetsk, not in Luhansk,” Mr. Parubiy said. “The center of the Ukrainian crisis is coordinated in the Kremlin.”
“我们明白，乌克兰危机的中心不在斯拉维扬斯克，不在顿涅茨克，也不在卢甘斯克，”帕鲁比说，“乌克兰危机的指挥中心是克里姆林宫。”
He added that the call to delay the referendum in Donetsk was not surprising given that it was illegal and impossible to carry out because the separatists control only a few public buildings in the center of a dozen or so cities.
他接着说，推迟顿涅茨克公投的呼吁并不令人吃惊，因为分裂分子只控制了十几个城市市中心的几栋公共建筑，公投是非法的，本来就不可能进行。
On Wednesday, the militants seemed perplexed by the Kremlin’s announcement. Both Moscow and the militants have repeatedly said that their actions are not coordinated, despite the shadowy presence of well-trained, well-armed men Ukraine accuses of being part of the Russian military or special agents.
周三，激进分子似乎对克里姆林宫的声明感到困惑。尽管乌克兰隐约出现了一些训练有素、武装精良的男子，乌克兰称其是俄罗斯军人或是特工，但俄罗斯和激进分子都曾多次表示，他们两方并没有协同行动。