MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President-elect Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone for the first time on Monday, agreeing to review what both consider the poor state of relations between the two countries, according to a statement from the Kremlin.
莫斯科——据克里姆林宫(Kremlin)的一份声明，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)和美国候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)于周一首次通话，同意重新审视双方眼中颇为糟糕的双边关系。
The two agreed “on the absolutely unsatisfactory state of bilateral relations,” said the statement, and they both endorsed the idea of undertaking joint efforts “to normalize relations and pursue constructive cooperation on the broadest possible range of issues.”
声明称，两人都认为，目前“双边关系的状态绝不能令人满意”，都赞同共同努力“使双边关系正常化，在尽可能广泛的问题上开展建设性合作”。
The issues discussed included trade and economic ties as well as combating terrorism. Mr. Putin was one of the first world leaders to congratulate Mr. Trump last Wednesday, sending him a telegram about an hour after he had emerged the victor, but the two men have not met nor had they spoken previously. Mr. Putin repeated the congratulations over the phone.
讨论的问题包括贸易和经济合作，以及对恐怖主义的打击。普京是上周三最早祝贺特朗普的国家领导人之一，在投票结果显示特朗普获胜约一小时后给他发电报致贺，但两人之前未曾谋面，也不曾通话。普京在通话中再次向特朗普表示祝贺。
The Russian president said he hoped that Moscow could build a “collaborative dialogue” with Washington on the bases of “equality, mutual respect and noninterference in the other’s internal affairs,” the release said.
这位俄罗斯总统称，他希望莫斯科能够在“平等、相互尊重和不干涉别国内政”的基础上与华盛顿建立“合作对话”。
The two men also discussed Syria in the context of “the need to work together in the struggle against the No. 1 common enemy — international terrorism and extremism,” the statement said.
声明称，两人还在“需要携手打击头号共同敌人——国际恐怖主义和极端主义”的背景下讨论了叙利亚问题。
Although Mr. Putin maintained studied neutrality during the presidential race, the state-run news media, which answers to him, clearly pulled for Mr. Trump. Among other issues, Mr. Putin blames Hillary Clinton, then secretary of state, for the mass demonstrations that greeted his return to the presidency in 2012.
尽管在总统竞选期间，普京慎重地保持中立，但向他负责的官方新闻媒体明显支持特朗普。普京把2012年再次当选总统后出现的大规模示威活动等问题归咎于当时的国务卿希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。
After Mrs. Clinton lost, the flagship state television news broadcast took to referring to her as the “blonde woman.”
克林顿败选后，俄罗斯国家电视台最重要的新闻广播开始称她为“金发妇女”。
During the campaign, senior United States security officials accused Russia of hacking the computers at the Democratic National Committee headquarters and releasing emails that proved embarrassing to the Clinton campaign. Mr. Putin denied any state role in the hacking.
竞选期间，美国高级安全官员指控俄罗斯攻击民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)总部的电脑，公布妨碍克林顿竞选的电子邮件。普京否认俄罗斯政府参与了黑客攻击。
The Russian government was one of the few around the world that was openly gleeful about the American election result, with members of the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian legislature, breaking into applause at the announcement. The United Russia party, loyal to Mr. Putin, dominates the Duma.
俄罗斯政府是世界上少数几个对美国大选结果公开表示高兴的国家之一，俄罗斯立法机关下议院国家杜马(State Duma)成员在得知选举结果后纷纷鼓掌。忠于普京的统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)在杜马占主导地位。
Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin developed something of a mutual admiration society during the election, particularly after Mr. Trump suggested that Crimea, which Moscow annexed from Ukraine, should belong to Russia and that the United States should ally itself with Russia and the Syrian government of President Bashar al-Assad to fight the Islamic State. Mr. Trump also suggested the United States might dilute its support for NATO, which Russia considers a main threat.
特朗普在竞选期间与普京发展出某种相互欣赏的情谊，特别是在特朗普主张俄罗斯从乌克兰那里强行吞并的克里米亚应该属于俄罗斯、美国应该与俄罗斯和叙利亚巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统的政府联手打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)之后。特朗普还主张，美国可以减少对北约的支持。俄罗斯视北约为主要威胁。
Much of the brief statement from the Kremlin about the telephone call echoed previous statements that Mr. Putin had made about his goals for relations with Washington, including “a return to pragmatic, mutually beneficial cooperation.”
克里姆林宫关于此次通话的简短声明大体上呼应了普京之前关于与华盛顿建立关系的目标的声明，包括“回归务实、互利的合作关系”。
Mr. Putin openly endorses the idea that the world should return to the era when two superpowers assumed a general responsibility for global stability and security.
普京公开支持世界应该回到两个超级大国共同承担全球稳定与安全责任的时代这一主张。
Some analysts, however, have suggested that Mr. Trump is unpredictable and the traditional Republican penchant for painting Russia as a dire threat could still emerge. The Putin administration is hoping that the West will lift sanctions imposed over the crisis in Ukraine.
然而，一些分析人士表示，特朗普令人捉摸不透，共和党将俄罗斯描述成严重威胁的传统倾向依然可能出现。普京政府希望西方解除因乌克兰危机而实施的制裁。
On the phone call, which the Kremlin said was arranged by mutual consent, the two men agreed to stay in contact and to meet at an unspecified date in the future.
在电话上，两人同意保持联系并在将来举行会面，不过日期还不确定。克里姆林宫称通话是双方一致同意安排的。
Earlier, Mr. Trump described the note on his victory that he received from Mr. Putin as “beautiful.”
早前，特朗普称普京发送给他的胜选贺电很“优美”。
For its part, Russia has continued its glowing tributes to Mr. Trump as a paragon who triumphed in what is repeatedly depicted in the Russian media as the swamp of American politics. The main weekly news program on state television every Sunday night tends to focus mainly on the United States, with Dmitry Kiselyov, the anchor, suggesting this week that Europe follow the American lead in replacing its leaders.
俄罗斯则继续热情洋溢地称赞特朗普是能在美国政治这片沼泽中获胜的完人，俄媒曾多次做出这样形容。该国官方电视台每周日晚上播出的重要周播新闻节目往往主要关注美国。本周，该节目的主持人德米特里·基谢廖夫(Dmitry Kiselyov)建议欧洲效仿美国，更换领导人。
Under President Trump, Mr. Kiselyov said, the American government would finally drop what the Russian anchor called its annoying slogans about human rights and democracy.
基谢廖夫称，在特朗普总统的领导下，美国政府终将放弃这名俄罗斯主持人所说的讨人厌的人权和民主口号。
“Russia has a lot of trust in Trump,” he said.
“俄罗斯对特朗普充满信任，”他说。