One thing I learned covering the Middle East for many years is that there is “the morning after” and there is “the morning after the morning after.” Never confuse the two.
经过多年的中东事务报道后，我学会了一件事：凡事都会有“第二天早上”，也有“第三天早上”。千万不要把二者搞混。
The morning after a big event is when fools rush in and declare that someone’s victory or defeat in a single battle has “changed everything forever.” The morning after the morning after, the laws of gravity start to apply themselves; things often don’t look as good or as bad as you thought. And that brings me to Vladimir Putin’s annexation of Crimea.
重大事件过后的第二天早上，会有愚蠢的人匆匆赶来宣布，某人在一次战役中取得的胜利或失败已经“永远地改变了一切”。而第三天早上，万有引力定律开始发挥作用；事情常常看起来不会像你以为的那么好，或者那么糟。这就让我想到了弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)吞并克里米亚的行动。
The morning after, he was the hero of Russia. Some moronic commentators here even expressed the wish that we had such a “decisive” leader. Well, let’s see what Putin looks like the morning after the morning after, say, in six months. I make no predictions, but I will point out this. Putin is challenging three of the most powerful forces on the planet all at once: human nature, Mother Nature and Moore’s Law. Good luck with that.
第二天早上，他成了俄罗斯的英雄。此地一些愚蠢的评论者甚至表达了这样的美好愿望：我们有这样一位“雷厉风行”的领袖。好吧，那么让我们拭目以待普京“第三天早上”的表现，要不，就定在六个月后吧。我不做任何预言，但我要指出这一点。普京同时在挑战这个星球上最强大的三种力量：人性、大自然和摩尔定律。祝你好运。
Putin’s seizure of Crimea certainly underscores the enduring power of geography in geopolitics. Russia is a continental country, stretching across a huge landmass, with few natural barriers to protect it. Every Kremlin leader — from the czars to the commissars to the crooks — has been obsessed about protecting Russia’s periphery from would-be invaders. Russia has legitimate security interests, but this episode is not about them.
普京占领克里米亚无疑突显了地缘政治中地理的恒久力量。俄罗斯是一个大陆国家，幅员辽阔，没有多少天然屏障可以用作防御目的。克里姆林宫里的每一位领导人——从沙皇到人民委员，再到骗子——都醉心于保护俄罗斯的外围不受潜在敌人的侵略。俄罗斯要求的安全利益完全合理，但眼下的一幕与此无关。
This recent Ukraine drama did not start with geography — with an outside power trying to get into Russia, as much as Putin wants to pretend that it did. This story started with people inside Russia’s orbit trying to get out. A large number of Ukrainians wanted to hitch their economic future to the European Union not to Putin’s Potemkin Eurasian Union. This story, at its core, was ignited and propelled by human nature — the enduring quest by people to realize a better future for themselves and their kids — not by geopolitics, or even that much nationalism. This is not an “invasion” story. This is an “Exodus” story.
最近发生在乌克兰的戏剧化事件，其出发点并非地理——某一外部势力企图进入俄罗斯，尽管普京竭力想要营造出这样的假象。这件事的起因是：俄罗斯势力范围内的人们想要出走。大批乌克兰人想要将他们的经济未来与欧盟联系起来，而不是普京的波特金(Potemkin)式装模做样的欧亚联盟(Eurasian Union)。就本质来说，此事因人性激发和推动的，即人们为自己和下一代实现更美好未来的永恒诉求，而不是地缘政治，其中甚至也没有太多民族主义的因素。这并不是一个有关“入侵”的故事。这是一个“离开”的故 事。
And no wonder. A recent article in Bloomberg Businessweek noted that, in 2012, G.D.P. per person in Ukraine was $6,394 — some 25 percent below its level of nearly a quarter-century earlier. But if you compare Ukraine with four of its former Communist neighbors to the west who joined the European Union — Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania — “the average G.D.P. per person in those nations is around $17,000.” Can you blame Ukrainians for wanting to join a different club?
这毫不意外。《彭博商业周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek)近期刊登的一篇文章指出，乌克兰2012年人均国内生产总值为6394美元（约合4万元人民币）——这比它将近25年前的水平还要低25%。但是你如果将乌克兰与它西部四个已加入欧盟的前共产主义邻居——波兰、斯洛伐克、匈牙利和罗马尼亚——相比，“这些国家的人均国内生产总值约为1.7万美元”。你能责怪乌克兰人想要加入一个不同的阵营吗？
But Putin is also counting on the world doing nothing about Mother Nature, and Mother Nature taking that in stride. Some 70 percent of Russia’s exports are oil and gas, and they make up half of all state revenue. (When was the last time you bought something that was labeled “Made in Russia”?) Putin has basically bet his country’s economic present and future on hydrocarbons at a time when the chief economist of the International Energy Agency has declared that “about two-thirds of all proven reserves of oil, gas and coal will have to be left undeveloped if the world is to achieve the goal of limiting global warming at two degrees Celsius” since the Industrial Revolution. Crossing that two-degrees line, say climate scientists, will dramatically increase the likelihood of melting the Arctic, dangerous sea level rises, more disruptive superstorms and unmanageable climate change.
然而普京还指望世界各国不要去管大自然，指望大自然也会逆来顺受。俄罗斯的出口大约有70%是石油和天然气，它们占了俄罗斯全部财政收入的一半。（你还记得上一次购买标有俄罗斯制造的商品是什么时候吗？）普京基本上将俄罗斯的现在和未来都押在了碳氢化合物上，而同时国际能源署(International Energy Agency)的首席经济学家已宣布，“如果想要将工业革命以来全球变暖的幅度控制在两度以内，那么世界上三分之二已探明储量的石油、天然气和煤就不可进行开发”。气候科学家表示，一旦越过了两度的界限，就会极大地增加北极融化、海平面上升到危险水平、出现更多破坏性的飓风以及气候变化无法控制的种种可能。
The former Saudi oil minister, Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, once warned his OPEC colleagues something Putin should remember: “The Stone Age didn’t end because we ran out of stones.” It ended because we invented bronze tools, which were more productive. The hydrocarbon age will also have to end with a lot of oil, coal and gas left in the ground, replaced by cleaner forms of power generation, or Mother Nature will have her way with us. Putin is betting otherwise.
沙特阿拉伯前石油部长谢赫艾哈迈德·扎基·亚马尼(Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani)曾警告他在石油输出国组织(OPEC)的同僚，普京也应该牢记于心：“石器时代的终结不是因为石头没了。”它的终结是因为我们发明了生产力更高的青铜制工具。碳氢化合物时代的终结也必将让许多石油、煤和天然气留在地下，一代更加清洁的能源将取而代之，否则的话大自然就会以自己的方式对付我们。而普京赌的是这种情况不会出现。