A FOUR-BEDROOM VILLA WITH WATER VIEWS IN PHUKET, THAILAND
泰国普吉(Phuket)，一栋四居室水景别墅
90 MILLION BAHT ($2.78 million)
9000万泰铢（278万美元，约合人民币1742万元）
This Thai-style villa has bedrooms and living areas divided among several structures, or pavilions, that rise along a sloping lot of just under an acre overlooking Chalong Bay in Phuket, a province in Thailand and the country’s largest island. The walled-in complex, which has about 4,400 square feet of interior space and almost 6,500 square feet of decks and balconies, has a swimming pool of around 750 square feet and views of the ocean and Phuket’s famous Big Buddha.
普吉是泰国的一个省，也是泰国最大的岛屿。本文介绍的别墅坐落在普吉的一道斜坡上，占地面积略低于一英亩（约合0.4公顷），可俯瞰查龙湾(Chalong Bay)，其卧室和起居区分别位于几座不同的楼阁当中。这片别墅综合体外有围墙，其室内面积一共约有4400平方英尺（约合409平方米），露台和阳台将近6500平方英尺（约合604平方米），泳池大约750平方英尺（约合70平方米），坐拥海景，可以遥望著名的普吉大佛(Big Buddha)。
The highest of the pavilions contains the principal open-plan living areas and overlooks the pool and extensive decks, which also have a large in-ground whirlpool. The living room has floor-to-ceiling windows and vaulted ceilings paneled in timber and adjoins the dining room and kitchen, said Paul Moorhouse, an owner of the villa. The living room has a 46-inch television that can be retracted into an entertainment unit to preserve panoramic ocean views. The villa’s furniture is included in the asking price. The custom-built kitchen has dark wooden cabinets, black granite countertops and stainless-steel appliances.
院内最高的楼阁之内有开放式的主起居区，可俯瞰泳池和开阔的露台。露台上也有一个大型嵌入式地面浴缸。据此别墅的主人之一保罗·穆尔豪斯(Paul Moorhouse)说，起居室内设有落地玻璃窗和木镶板的拱形天花板，旁边就是餐厅和厨房。起居室里有一台46英寸的电视，可收入娱乐柜中，使海洋全景一览无余。别墅里的家具已包含在要价里。特别定制的厨房里配了深色的木橱柜、黑色花岗岩台面和不锈钢器具。
Also on this level, a traditional open-sided Thai sala or pavilion of about 860 square feet has a full bar, refrigeration, an entertainment area, bathroom and powder room.  A dining table can seat seven people, and there is a high-end sound system, Mr. Moorhouse said.
在同一海拔高度，还建有一座开放式的传统泰式楼阁，面积约860平方英尺（约合80平方米），里面有一处功能齐全的酒吧台，并设冷柜，带有一个娱乐区、一间浴室和一个化妆间。穆尔豪斯说，餐桌可坐下七个人，屋里还配备了一套高端音响系统。
About half of the lot is landscaped with waterfalls, statues and gardens of palms, ferns, orchids and orange jasmine, with several hundred garden lights, he said. Natural stone steps pass a lily pond.
庭院里有一半的面积用来打造瀑布、雕塑和花园。业主说，花园里还种着棕榈树、蕨类植物、兰花和橙色茉莉，同时装饰着几百盏花园灯。一道天然石阶从一片荷花池边经过。
Another pavilion houses the master suite. With floor-to-ceiling windows and a vaulted timber-paneled ceiling, the master bedroom has hardwood floors and teak accents. It also has two private terraces, Mr. Moorhouse said. Besides en-suite bathrooms with Jacuzzi tubs, all four bedrooms have surround-sound home theater systems and 46-inch televisions. 
另一座楼阁里是主卧套房，饰有木镶板的拱形天花板，铺着硬木地板，主打柚木家具。穆尔豪斯说，其中还带有两个私人露台。配套的主卧浴室中，设有极可意(Jacuzzi)浴缸。此外，四间卧室内均配备了环绕声家庭影院系统和46英寸电视。
The next pavilion is two stories, with a bedroom suite offering sea views on each floor. One suite also has a sitting area, a kitchenette and walk-in closets. A pavilion at street level has a fourth bedroom suite over a two-car garage and storage area. The villa’s pavilions have ducted air-conditioning and ceiling fans. Tap water is treated and potable. The villa complex has a home security system and electronic gates with a separate pedestrian entrance at street level.
另一座楼阁有两层，每层各有一间坐拥海景的卧室套房。其中一间套房里还设有休息区、一个小厨房和多个步入式衣橱。与街道海拔相同的那座楼阁中设有第四间卧室，楼下是一座可停放两辆车的车库，外加储物区。别墅的各栋楼阁都安装了管道式空调和吊扇。自来水已经过处理，适于饮用。这片别墅综合体配备了一个家庭安全系统和多扇电子门，在街道层设有单独的行人入口。
Phuket is a Thai province that consists of the 220-square-mile island of Phuket, linked by causeway to the mainland, and 32 smaller islands. This villa is on Cape Panwa at the southern end of Phuket island, near the Phuket Aquarium.   There is a white-sand beach, with beach bars and boat moorings, across the street, just steps from the villa. It’s about a 15-minute drive from the city of Phuket, with about 76,000 residents, which has restaurants, bars, art galleries and shops. The international airport is about 50 minutes away by car.
普吉是泰国的一个省份，包含220平方英里（约合570平方公里）的普吉岛（通过长堤与泰国本土相连）以及32座小岛。本文介绍的别墅位于普吉岛南端的攀瓦角(Cape Panwa)，靠近普吉水族馆(Phuket Aquarium)。街对面有一片白沙滩，那里设有沙滩酒吧和泊船位，距离别墅仅几步之遥。普吉市距此别墅约有15分钟车程，该市居民人口约7.6万，城里有餐馆、酒吧、艺术画廊和商店。国际机场距该别墅约50分钟车程。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
A military coup in Thailand in May and the imposition of martial law, which continues, slowed property sales, but they have rebounded since the beginning of this year, according to Richard Lusted, the chief executive of the Phuket-based brokerage Siam Real Estate, which has this listing.
此房源的挂牌经纪公司是总部设在普吉的Siam Real Estate，该公司的首席执行官理查德·卢斯特德(Richard Lusted)表示，由于去年五月的军事政变，加上戒严令仍未解除，房地产销售有所放缓，但是今年年初已出现回升。
The price index for single-family detached homes in Thailand has grown every year since 2008 by 1 percent to 5.4 percent, according to housing data from the Bank of Thailand. The price indexes for condominiums, townhouses and land have grown even more quickly over that period, frequently in the range of 5 percent to 12 percent a year.
根据泰国银行(Bank of Thailand)的住房数据，自2008年以来，泰国独栋别墅的价格指数每年都会增长1%至5.4%。同一时期，共管公寓、联排别墅和土地的价格指数甚至上涨得更快，年增长率往往达到5%至12%。
Phuket is the most popular location for foreigners seeking to buy homes in Thailand, said Ann Adenius, a director of the international brokerage Signature Residences Worldwide. “Phuket has established itself as a world-class resort destination,” she said. “The island offers an international airport, international schools, first-class hospitals, championship golf courses, excellent yachting marinas, fine dining and Western-styled shopping malls.”
国际房地产经纪公司Signature Residences Worldwide的董事安·阿德纽斯(Ann Adenius)表示，普吉是外国人在泰国买房的最热门地点。“普吉已经成为一个世界级的度假胜地，”她说，“岛上设有一个国际机场，还有众多国际学校、一流的医院、高尔夫锦标赛球场、优质的游艇码头、高档餐厅和西式的大商场。”
Many buyers are looking for lower-cost “off-plan” or brand-new villas with two to three bedrooms and a pool on modest plots of land in boutique developments, Mr. Lusted said. Those homes typically range in price from about 7 million to 16 million baht, or roughly $217,000 to $496,000.
卢斯特德说，许多购房者正在寻找价格更低的期房或全新的别墅。那样的别墅往往带有两到三间卧室和一个泳池，占地面积小，隶属于精品开发项目。这些住宅的价位一般大约为700到1600万泰铢（约合人民币136到310万元），即21.7到49.6万美元。
However, villas in Phuket can range up well beyond the million-dollar range, such as the one listed here, and that market, which is largely made up of cash buyers, has thrived even in challenging economic times, Ms. Adenius said. “While buyers previously looked for properties on the traditionally-favored west coast of the island, Phuket’s south and east coast have surged in popularity as an upmarket alternative,” she said.
然而普吉的别墅价位，可能会远远超出百万美元的范围，本文介绍的挂牌房源就是一例。而且据阿德纽斯称，这个市场在很大程度上是由现金购房者组成的，即使在艰难的经济环境下，也依然得以蓬勃发展。“虽然以前的购房者一般对普吉岛的西海岸情有独钟，但现在南部和东部沿海也已跃升为高端市场的替代选择。”她说。
Foreign buyers also seek homes in Bangkok, the resort areas of Pattaya and Hua Hin, the island of Koh Samui and the northern city of Chiang Mai, agents said.  Chiang Mai has become a popular destination for retirees seeking houses that are more affordable, said Simon Bradshaw, a director of Perfect Homes, a brokerage there. Most foreign buyers in Chiang Mai look for three-bedroom three-bathroom homes on the outskirts of the city, which range in price from 2 million to 6 million baht, or roughly $60,000 to $185,000. “The coastal towns are much more popular, but many people move to Chiang Mai after the honeymoon period of the beaches wears off,” Mr. Bradshaw said.
经纪人说，外国买家物色房源的其他地点，还包括曼谷(Bangkok)、芭堤雅和华欣度假区(the resort areas of Pattaya and Hua Hin)、苏梅岛(the island of Koh Samui)及北部城市清迈(Chiang Mai)。据当地经纪公司Perfect Homes的董事西门·布拉德肖(Simon Bradshow)说，清迈已成为退休人士物色实惠住宅的热门目的地。多数外国购房者在清迈都在市郊物色三室三卫的住宅，价位在200到600万泰铢（约合人民币39到116万元）之间，约合6到18.5万美元。“沿海城镇更受欢迎，但是住海滩的新鲜劲过去之后，很多人还是会搬到清迈。”布拉德肖说。
WHO BUYS IN THAILAND
谁在泰国买房
Foreign home buyers in Thailand historically have come in the largest numbers from Britain, Europe, the United States, Hong Kong and Singapore, agents said.  More recently, buyers have come from the Middle East, India and China, Ms. Adenius said.  Mr. Lusted said he also sees buyers from Australasia and Korea. Russians were recently also buying Thai homes in large numbers until the ruble’s value tumbled last year, agents said.  In Phuket, Ms. Adenius said she is working with more buyers who are part-time residents and commute to Hong Kong and Singapore for work.
经纪人表示，泰国历史上的外国购房者大多来自英国、欧洲、美国、香港和新加坡。阿德纽斯指出，近来，购房者来自中东、印度和中国。卢斯特德说，他还看到了来自澳大利亚和韩国的购房者。经纪人表示，直到卢布去年贬值之前，很多俄罗斯人近年来也在泰国买房。阿德纽斯说，在普吉，她正在接触越来越多的非常住购房者，他们平时会通勤到香港或新加坡工作。
BUYING BASICS
购房须知
Under Thai law, foreign home buyers can own buildings, including condos, but not land in their name, agents said.  A common arrangement is for home buyers to purchase the home together with a lease for the land. Usually the lease is for a period of 30 years with two opportunities for 30-year extensions. “Often the deal includes a purchase option for the land that could be exercised in the event the laws of foreign ownership changed or you sold the property on to a Thai person or legal entity,” Ms. Adenius said.
经纪人表示，根据泰国法律，外国购房者可以拥有自己的建筑，也包括共管公寓单元，但是他们名下不能有土地。一个常见的​​处理方式是，购房者在买下住宅的同时，签订一份土地租约。一般租期为30年，有两次延期30年的机会。“通常情况下，这笔交易里也会包含购地优先权，如果针对外国人的产权法律发生变更，或者你把房产卖给了泰国自然人或法人，那么你就可以行使这项优先权了。”阿德纽斯说。
Another option for a foreigner owning a Thai business is to buy the land through the company, Mr. Lusted said. But a former practice in which foreigners set up companies solely to purchase land has been phased out for the most part, agents said. Legal fees typically amount to several hundred dollars, and registering the lease at the land office costs 1 percent of the lease value, Mr. Bradshaw said. The transfer tax, typically paid by the buyer, is 5.3 percent if the property had previously been sold within the past five years, or 2 percent if the property is new or had not been sold in the previous five years, Mr. Lusted said.
卢斯特德指出，如果外国人在泰国开了公司，那么还有一个选择就是，通过公司来买地。但经纪人表示，专门为了买地而开公司的做法，基本上已经被淘汰了。布拉德肖指出，律师费通常要数百美元，而在土地办公室注册租约的费用大约是租赁价值的1%。转让税通常由买方支付，如果一套房产在过去五年内被出售过，则转让税为5.3%。如果这套房产是全新的、或在过去五年内没有出售过，则转让税为2%。