HONG KONG — Smog is among the problems that the Chinese government has vowed to combat.
香港——雾霾是中国政府发誓要解决的问题。
Now another problem, which lies right under many tourists’ noses, is in the authorities’ cross hairs: unsightly toilets.
如今，另一个问题也引起了当局的注意，这是许多游客都要面对的一个问题：脏乱差的厕所。
The China National Tourism Administration, a government agency, announced a five-year plan in December to enhance the country’s tourism industry, including a project to build, expand and renovate 100,000 toilets in scenic areas and along tourist routes. The plan complements a campaign to add 57,000 modern public toilets nationwide by late 2017.
政府机构中国国家旅游局去年12月发布了发展中国旅游业的五年规划，其中包括在旅游景区和旅游线路新建、改建和扩建10万座厕所。这个规划是对“厕所革命”行动的补充，该行动的目标是在2017年前，在全国修建5.7万座现代化公共厕所。
The agency’s chairman, Li Jinzao, has said that a failure to upgrade toilets could damage the reputation of China’s tourism industry, which the United Nations said earned $114 billion from international visitors in 2015, second only to the United States.
国家旅游局局长李金早曾说，不对脏乱差的厕所进行改造的话，可能会毁掉中国旅游业的名声，据联合国统计，2015年，中国的旅游行业从国际游客身上获得的收入为1140亿美元，仅次于美国。
China should “advance the toilet revolution with the help of science and technology,” Mr. Li said in November at a conference in Beijing.
李金早去年11月在北京的一次会议上说，中国需要用“科技推进厕所革命”。
To help the revolution, the agency published a list of 10 scenic sites with exemplary toilets. The winner was Gubei Water Town, a resort complex of gray brick buildings with tiled roofs at the foot of the Great Wall on the outskirts of Beijing.
为了推进“厕所革命”，国家旅游局公布了模范厕所十大典型景区名单。位于名单之首的是古北水镇，一个坐落在北京郊区长城脚下灰砖瓦顶的度假建筑群。
On a recent afternoon at Gubei Water Town, a visitor saw restrooms with sofas, potted plants and watercolor paintings. The urinals were exceptionally clean, and the stalls were stocked with what is often a rare commodity in China’s public facilities: toilet paper.
最近一个下午，一位游客在古北水镇看到了配有沙发、盆栽植物和水彩画的洗手间。里面的小便池特别干净，小隔间里还备有中国公共设施中通常罕见的东西：卫生纸。
“One small step forward, one giant leap for civility,” a placard above each urinal said.
“向前一小步，文明一大步”，每个小便池上都贴着这样的标语。
But the government is taking a hard line against stragglers. The tourism agency said in December that after recent inspections, it had delisted, downgraded or warned 367 A-rated scenic sites for a range of violations, including outdated or unsanitary restrooms.
政府也正在对落后的景区采取强硬措施。旅游局12月表示，在最近进行检查后，它对367个A级景区进行了摘牌、降级或警告惩处，它们的违规行为包括厕所陈旧或者不卫生。
One place that the government penalized last year was the Shenlong Gorge, a scenic area in the southwestern municipality of Chongqing known for its white-water rafting. Shenlong, which had been classified as 5A, the highest level in the five-tier ratings, was delisted last summer after inspectors conducted two undercover visits.
政府去年惩处过的一个地方是神龙峡，它属于大西南的重庆，是一个以激流漂流闻名的风景区。之前被评为5A级，是5个级别中最高的一级，检查员进行了两次暗访之后，它在去年夏天被摘牌。
The National Tourism Administration said in a news release at the time that the Shenlong Gorge was a “prominent laggard of the toilet revolution, with messy toilet sanitation, filthy conditions, seriously bad odors and dirty toilet appliances.”
国家旅游局在当时的新闻稿中说，神龙峡“景区厕所革命严重滞后，厕所卫生脏乱差，污物、异味严重，厕所用具脏乱”。
In response, the site closed for five days in August, partly to renovate its 12 restrooms and add soap and toilet paper dispensers. But as of this week, it was still unaccredited.
于是该景区在8月关闭了五天时间，部分原因是对12个洗手间进行改造，并添置了肥皂和卫生纸出纸机。但到本周，它仍然处于摘牌状态。
The number of visitors to Shenlong Gorge has slumped, and the management recently dropped the entrance fee to 80 renminbi, about $12, from 100 renminbi, said Liao Jiangwei, Shenlong’s general manager. He said that he was working to improve the site’s restrooms.
神龙峡旅游开发公司总经理廖江维表示，该景区游客人数下降了，管理层最近将门票从100元人民币下调至80元。他说景区正在努力改进厕所。