A MODERN FOUR-BEDROOM WATERFRONT VILLA OUTSIDE STOCKHOLM
斯德哥尔摩郊区，一栋有四间卧室的现代海滨别墅
$2.93 MILLION (19.5 MILLION SWEDISH KRONOR) 
293万美元（1950万瑞典克朗[kronor]，约合人民币1803万元） 
This four-bedroom two-bath villa was built in 1987 in Saltsjobaden, an affluent bedroom community 25 minutes from Stockholm city center by car or train. The 2,900-square-foot house sits on a rocky hillside above Baggensfjarden, a bay on the Baltic coast; expansive windows look across to a wooded shore peppered with other homes.
这栋四卧、两卫的别墅修建于1987年，位于萨尔斯庄巴丹(Saltsjobaden)这个繁华的住宿式社区（bedroom community，指距离商业中心较远，居民白天都在外工作，只有晚上回来休息的社区——译注）。从这里开车或搭乘火车，25分钟可达斯德哥尔摩市中心。这栋面积达2900平方英尺（约269平方米）的房屋，坐落在波罗的海(Baltic)的Baggensfjarden海湾上方，一座多岩石的山坡上；宽阔的窗户眺望着一片树木繁茂的海岸，那里零星分布着其它一些房屋。
Inside, the living room flows into a rounded alcove, with so many windows it resembles a conservatory. In the dining room, a blue-tinted chandelier hangs from a painted wood ceiling, and the floors are pale oak. The kitchen at the back of the house has a wood breakfast bar and a stone countertop.
进入屋内，客厅连着一间圆形凹室，由于窗户很多，这间凹室犹如一间暖房。在这间餐厅里，刷过漆的木质天花板上悬挂着一盏色调偏蓝的枝形吊灯，地面则铺着浅色橡木地板。屋后的厨房里有一座木质早餐吧台和一座石质的料理台。
The two downstairs bedrooms share a hall bath, and both have wood floors and views of the water. A spiral staircase with open wood treads leads to the second-floor master suite, where a mezzanine overlooks the living areas below. The master bathroom is tiled with dark peach marble. The sink is made of glass, with a matching glass frame around the mirror. The master suite includes a private balcony and a wood-paneled sauna. There is also a children’s bedroom on the second floor.
楼下的两间卧室共用了一间走廊浴室，两间房都铺了木地板，并都能看见海景。一段带有开放式台阶的旋转楼梯，可以通往二楼的主卧，这段楼梯还有一个中间层，可以俯瞰下面的客厅。主卧的浴室中，贴着深色桃纹大理石(peach marble)瓷砖。盥洗池是玻璃的，镜子周围还有一圈与之搭配的玻璃框。这间主卧还有一座私人阳台和一间桑拿木板房。另有一间儿童卧室也在二楼。
The terraced property, about a third of an acre, is landscaped to create multiple outdoor rooms, including a shady lawn and tables for outdoor dining on one terrace by the house and another terrace beside the water. Stairs descend to the private dock.
这片有多处平地的房产，占地大约三分之一英亩（约1348平方米），景色宜人，建有多处户外空间，包括一片阴凉的草坪，房屋附近的一处平台上、以及水边另一处平台上，摆放着几张用于户外就餐的桌子。沿几级台阶向下，通往一处私人露台。
Summers in Saltsjobaden are similar to summers in Maine, and locals enjoy swimming from June through August. There are a handful of local restaurants and shops in Saltsjobaden, and a larger shopping center in Nacka is about 10 minutes away. The international airport is about 45 minutes from the house.
萨尔斯庄巴丹的夏天类似于美国缅因州的夏天，当地人从六月至八月享受着游泳的乐趣。萨尔斯庄巴丹有数十家本地餐厅和商店，还有一座位于纳卡(Nacka)的大型购物中心，大约需要10分钟的路程。从这栋房屋前往国际机场大约要45分钟。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
“Real estate is quite healthy for the whole of Sweden,” said Lars Andersson, the chief executive of Sweden Sotheby’s International Realty. He said prices are so strong in Stockholm that some experts are concerned about a real estate bubble. The combination of low interest rates, mortgage interest tax deductions, a strong job market and limited housing stock are pushing Stockholm prices up. Mr. Andersson said the government is considering eliminating the mortgage interest tax deduction and discussing other measures to calm the real estate market and keep people from borrowing too much.
“全瑞典的房地产市场都相当健康，”瑞典苏富比国际房产公司(Sotheby’s International Realty)的首席执行官拉尔斯·安德森(Lars Andersson)说。他称，由于斯德哥尔摩的房价坚挺，一些专家甚至担心存在房地产泡沫。低利率、按揭利率免税政策、强劲的就业市场和有限的房屋存量，这几种因素结合起来，共同推高了斯德哥尔摩的房价。安德森说，政府目前正在考虑废除按揭利率免税政策，还将讨论其它一些方法来冷却当前的房地产市场，并阻止民众过度借贷。
Average prices for an apartment in central Stockholm are around $975 per square foot. A typical three- to four-bedroom apartment in the city of around 2,150 square feet would cost about $2.1 million. High-end apartments are around $1,200 to $1,950 per square foot.
斯德哥尔摩市中心的一套公寓，均价大约为每平方英尺975美元（约合每平方米人民币65573元）。市内一套约2150平方英尺（约合199.7平方米）的、带有三至四间卧室的典型公寓，价值大约在210万美元（约合人民币1308万元）。高端公寓的价格从每平方英尺1200美元（约合每平方米人民币8.1万元）至1950美元（约合每平方米人民币13.1万元）不等。
Because Stockholm was built on an archipelago, waterfront homes are abundant very close to the city. “We are blessed with a lot of attractive coastline,” Mr. Andersson said. It is possible to find a small stuga, or cottage, for about $1 million. “If you are willing to jump on a ferry or take your own boat out to an island with no car connection, you can find something quite beautiful for half.”
因为斯德哥尔摩是一座建于群岛上的城市，所以海滨住宅的数量充足，而且距市区也非常近。“我们有幸靠着一片美丽的海岸线，”安德森说。你也许能找到一些价格大约在一百万美元（约合人民币623万元）的“stuga”，或说小屋。“若你愿意登上渡船，或自己划船去某座尚未通车的小岛，你就能发现一些非常漂亮的住宅在以半价出售。”
Djursholm has always been the most affluent residential suburb of Stockholm, with waterfront properties ranging from $3 million to $10 million, Mr. Andersson added. In Saltsjobaden, where this house is, a typical waterfront villa costs about $3 million. Prices experienced only a six-month hiccup in 2008 when the global financial crisis struck, and have been strong ever since, he said.
Djursholm一直是斯德哥尔摩最繁荣的近郊住宅区，分布着一些价格从300万美元（约合人民币1868万元）至1000万美元（约合人民币6227万元）不等的海滨房产，安德森补充说。而在该房产所在的萨尔斯庄巴丹，一栋经典的海滨别墅大约价值300万美元。这样的房价只在2008年全球经融危机时，经历了六个月的短期震荡，从那以后价格就一直很坚挺，他说。