I hate the new Apple Watch. Hate what it will do to conversation, to the pace of the day, to my friends, to myself. I hate that it will enable the things that already make life so incremental, now-based and hyper-connected. That, and make things far worse.
我讨厌新上市的苹果手表。讨厌它将会对交谈、生活的节奏、我的朋友以及我自己产生的影响。我讨厌它会提升那些已经让生活变得如此繁琐、急功近利和超级互联的东西的效用。除此之外，除了以上这些，它还会让情况变得糟糕许多。
This has nothing to do with Apple. We can still be friends. I’m writing on a MacBook Air, my constant companion since I kissed off my hometown Microsoft-programmed clunker for the sleek and far less needy Mac some time ago. I’m closer to my iPhone 6 than to some of my siblings — you never call, you never text, you never share, not a selfie in six months.
这与苹果公司无关。我们还是可以做朋友的。我正在一台MacBook Air上写下这些文字。自从一段时间以前我淘汰了家乡生产的那台微软系统的旧电脑，换成这台漂亮且远不会那么需要照顾的Mac之后，它一直是我的好伙伴。我与iPhone 6的关系比我与一些兄弟姐妹的关系还亲密——从来不给他们打电话、发短信，或是分享东西，六个月里连张自拍都没有。
No, my animus for Apple’s smartwatch — excuse me, wearable technology — is for what it will do to us. Things are too complicated as it is. At dinner with friends, or in a meeting that I’m supposed to care about, when can I look at my phone? Who’s phone-ignore worthy, and who’s not? At what point is looking down rude? And how long into a conversation till all sides get to call a truce and take a screen dive?
不，我对苹果智能手表的厌恶——不好意思，应该是可穿戴设备——在于它会对我们产生何种影响。生活已经够复杂的了。在与朋友吃饭时，或是在我应该重视的一个会议上，我什么时候可以看手机？谁重要到让我不看手机，谁没那么重要？什么时候看手机是不礼貌的？交谈进行了多长时间之后，各方才可以休息一下，看一眼手机屏幕？
I say this as an information obsessive. I wish I could say recovering information obsessive. Like most of us, I’m in need of digital detox, not a fresh hit. Those restroom breaks at restaurants were not about bladder relief. God knows how many times I’ve sneaked away from the table just to peek at a football score, a “Daily Show” clip, a text, a photo or email, my Amazon book number. What a miserable wretch. But it could be worse: I have a friend who texts while skiing.
我认为这是一种信息强迫症。我希望我能说这种信息强迫症可以恢复。就像我们中多数人一样，我需要戒除网瘾，不是来一剂让我更上瘾的东西。我们在吃饭时去洗手间根本不是因为人有三急。天知道我有多少次从餐桌上偷偷溜出来只是去为了看一眼球赛的比分、《每日秀》(Daily Show)的片段、一条短信、一张照片或电子邮件，还有我的亚马逊图书订单。多可悲啊。但情况还可以更糟：我有一个朋友一边滑雪一边发短信。
Apple says its smartwatch, which it rolled out at one of its Dear Leader-like events in San Francisco this week, will make interactions between human and screen less complicated, and less rude. Instead of reaching into pocket or purse in front of someone, the user will just glance at the wrist. In fact, Apple calls the new feature in which the watch is touched to access the Internet a “glance.”
苹果本周在旧金山一场致敬伟大领袖似的活动中发布了这款手表。苹果说，它的智能手表将让人与屏幕的互动不那么复杂，不那么不礼貌。用户不需要在他人面前把手伸进口袋或包包，只需扫一眼手腕就行了。实际上，苹果把碰一下手表就接入互联网的新功能就叫做“Glance”（瞥一眼）。
Just a glance, nothing rude there. Oh, really? Remember how off-putting it was when George Bush the elder checked his watch during a question period from the audience in a presidential debate? It may have cost him the election in 1992.
只是扫一眼，这可没有什么不礼貌的。噢，是吗？还记得乔治·布什(George Bush)在总统辩论中接受观众提问时看手表的动作是多么让人恼火吗？这可能就是他输掉1992年大选的原因。
People check their phones about 150 times a day. Now, imagine how many glances they’ll take with all the information in the world on their wrists. Imagine how many people will attempt to drive while glancing, to walk while glancing, to talk while glancing, to make love while glancing.
人们一天看手机约150次。现在，想象一下，当全世界的信息都在手腕上展示的时候，人们会扫上多少眼。想象有多少人会试图在开车时扫一眼，在走路时扫一眼，在聊天时扫一眼，在做爱时扫一眼。
To the complaints that our smartphone addiction has produced a world where nobody talks much anymore, nobody listens and nobody reads, you can add a new one with the smartwatch: nobody makes eye contact.
一些人抱怨，手机引发的上瘾让这个世界变成了没人长时间讲话、没人倾听，没人阅读的地方。有了智能手表之后，这些抱怨中可以加上一条：没人进行目光接触。
Tim Cook, the Apple C.E.O., seems like a decent and likable guy — no tech overlord in a Darth Vader suit. But his presentation of the new watch on Monday creeped me out, and offered a road map to a world I’m not sure I want to join.
苹果CEO蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)似乎是一个讨人喜欢的正派人——不是一个穿着达斯·维达(Darth Vader)式服装的科技魔头。但他周一展示的新手表把我吓坏了，而它给世界提供的方向，我也不确定是否想要加入。
“The Apple Watch is the most personal device we have ever created,” he said. “It’s not just with you, it’s on you.” Ewwww. It sounds like a digital dog collar, complete with an anti-flea component. From here on out, there is no down time, and no excuses for reality escapes. You are connected, 24/7.
“苹果手表是我们推出的最私密的设备，”他说。“你不只是带着它，而且是戴着它。”咦哟。这听起来就像是一个数码狗项圈，加上一个防跳蚤的零部件。从此以后，再没有放松的时间，再没有逃离现实的借口。你永远都在线，一周七天，一天24小时。
Cook tried to humanize Apple’s latest culture-disrupter. You can talk to your wrist — it’s a phone! You can check your heartbeat — it’s a doctor! And if you don’t adequately exercise during the week, your watch will remind you of your failure — it’s a nag!
库克试图让苹果颠覆文化的最新产品人性化。你可以对着手腕说话——它是电话！你可以检查心跳——它是医生！而且如果你在一周当中没有进行足够的锻炼，你的表会提醒你——它还唠唠叨叨的。
He seemed most rapt in describing how much closer together the Apple Watch will bring us all. “You can tap your watch and get your friends’ attention,” he said. Ah, there’s a rich relationship. I can think of a number of places once considered off-limits for cellphone intrusions — the classroom, the dinner table, the bathtub — where the watch can interrupt. And who’s to know: it’s only a glance.
他似乎尤其注重描述Apple Watch能在多大程度上让我们所有人变得更亲密。“轻轻敲一下手表，就能引起朋友的注意，”他说。啊，这联系可真密切。我能想到很多曾经被认为不受手机干扰的地方：教室、餐桌和浴缸。但现在，在这些地方进行的活动手表都可以打断。毕竟谁知道呢：只用瞥一眼。
There is some evidence that heavy smartphone use makes you dumber. The theory is that a having the world at the other end of a mobile search makes for lazy minds, while people who depend less on their devices develop more analytical skills.
一些证据表明，大量使用智能手机会让人变得更笨。相关理论认为，用移动搜索了解世界会使大脑变得懒惰，而不那么依赖设备的人，会形成更多分析技能。
Add to this concerns about privacy: that the watch is a tracking device, which sends all your personal information to a central database — a corporate control center that already knows far too much about the preferences and habits of smartphone users.
除此之外，还有对隐私的担忧：这款手表是一台追踪设备，会将你所有的个人信息发送给一个中央数据库。那是一个商用控制中心，已经掌握了太多有关智能手机用户的偏好和习惯的信息。