Last year, when China quietly passed the United States as the largest smartphone market, the dynamics of global phone making shifted.
去年，当中国悄然超越美国，成为世界最大的智能手机市场时，全球手机制造的格局发生了变化。
Until then, the global market for smartphones had been defined by the rivalry between Apple and Samsung Electronics. They built expensive phones as must-have products for affluent consumers in wealthy countries.
在那之前，全球智能手机市场的主题一直是苹果(Apple)和三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的对抗。两家公司为富裕国家的富裕消费者打造必备的昂贵手机。
Now more phones are being designed for consumers in emerging markets, who are expected to account for most of the growth in smartphone sales in the future. That presents an opportunity for the major Chinese phone makers, like Huawei, Lenovo, ZTE, Coolpad, Xiaomi and Oppo.
现在，更多的手机是为新兴市场的消费者设计的，因为智能手机未来的大部分增长预计来自这些市场。这为华为、联想、中兴、酷派、小米和欧珀等中国的大型手机制造商提供了机会。
While Samsung is the biggest smartphone vendor in China, with a market share of 20 percent in the first quarter of 2013, according to the research firm Canalys, several Chinese companies have surged past Apple, which holds 8 percent.
根据研究公司Canalys的数据，2013年第一季度，尽管三星是中国市场上最大的智能手机卖家，市场占有率为20%，但数家中国企业已经超越了苹果8%的占有率。
These include internationally recognized names like Huawei, known for network switching gear, and Lenovo, known for ThinkPad laptops, which moved into the No. 3 and No. 4 positions in the first quarter. But there are nearly 400 other little-known makers in China, where two-thirds of the world’s smartphones are made. One of these, Coolpad, leapfrogged from seventh place a year ago to second in the first three months of this year, with a 10 percent share.
其中包括华为和联想这样的国际知名企业。这两家分别以网络交换设备和ThinkPad笔记本电脑闻名的公司，在第一季度的手机市场占有率榜单上分列第三和第四。不过，在全球三分之二智能手机的生产地中国，还有近400家不知名的小制造商。其中一家是酷派，它的市场占有率达10%，由一年前的第七跃升到今年一季度的第二。
“There’s a long tail of local competitors that are going to push Apple and Samsung harder and harder,” said Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics. “There’s a million and one people trying to eat their lunch.”
Strategy Analytics的分析师尼尔·莫斯顿(Neil Mawston)表示，“大量的本土竞争者构成了一条‘长尾’，它们会向苹果和三星施加越来越大的压力。有无数人试图从它们手上分一杯羹。”
Chinese phone shoppers are concerned about price because most phones are sold without subsidies from network operators. In the United States and Europe, the wide use of subsidies masks what consumers pay for phones.
中国的手机消费者会关心售价，因为多数人在购买时不会得到网络运行商的补贴。在美国和欧洲，运营商广泛采取补贴政策，掩盖了消费者实际支付的手机价格。
The Chinese also switch phones far more often than their counterparts in the West — generally after about six months, analysts say, compared with every two years or so in developed economies. Fickle customers mean market share shifts swiftly, and the fortunes of companies rise and fall almost as fast.
中国人换手机的频率也远高于西方人。分析师指出，中国人一般会每过六个月左右就换手机，而发达经济体的数据则约为两年。善变的消费者也意味着市场占有率会瞬息万变，而企业运势的沉浮也几乎同样快速。
Apple’s and Samsung’s position in the high end of the market allows them to collect most of the profit from smartphone sales in China, analysts say. Apple sells 55 percent of the phones priced at $450 or more, with Samsung accounting for 40 percent, according to Sanford C. Bernstein, a brokerage firm. Apple’s iPhone 5 costs about $780, while Samsung’s Galaxy S4 costs about $850.
分析师称，苹果和三星在高端市场的地位让它们收获了中国智能手机销售的大部分利润。根据经纪公司桑福德·伯恩斯坦(Sanford C. Bernstein)的数据，在市场上售价不低于450美元（约合2800元人民币）的智能手机中，苹果出售的占55%，三星占40%。苹果的iPhone 5售价约为780美元，三星的Galaxy S4售价则约为850美元。
But growth in this segment is slowing. Analysts at Bernstein expect sales of smartphones $450 and up in China to rise to 296 million units this year, from 235 million in 2012. But the total will flatten out at around 300 million a year, the firm said.
然而，这一细分市场的增长正在放缓。伯恩斯坦的分析师预测，不低于450美元的智能手机在中国市场的销量将从去年的2.35亿部增长到今年的2.96亿部。不过该公司表示，年销售总量将在3亿部左右趋于平稳。
By contrast, sales of phones priced at less than $200 are expected to surge to 400 million units this year, from 234 million last year, with a further jump to 685 million in 2015, the firm says. The low end is growing faster because prices of smartphones have fallen so much that hundreds of millions of Chinese consumers are now able to replace old-fashioned feature phones that lack mobile data capabilities.
相比之下，伯恩斯坦预测，售价不到200美元的手机销量将从去年的2.34亿部激增至今年的4亿部，而2015年又会进一步跃升至6.85亿部。低端市场之所以增长更快，是因为智能手机的价格急剧跳水，数以亿计的中国消费者现在能够换掉那些不具备移动数据能力的老式手机了。
“The question for Samsung and Apple is whether they are equipped to compete in the developing markets, especially China, where the growth is going to happen,” said Pete Cunningham, an analyst at Canalys.
Canalys的分析师皮特·坎宁安(Pete Cunningham)说，“三星和苹果的问题在于，它们是否准备好在发展中市场竞争，尤其是中国，因为这里才是将会产生增长的地方。”
Some of these phones are simply knockoffs of handsets from Samsung or Apple, often housed in cheap plastic shells or offering less memory, lower-resolution screens or inferior cameras. Last year, one Chinese brand, Goophone, introduced a clone of the iPhone 5 for $150, even before Apple released the iPhone 5 in China.
这其中一些手机不过是三星和苹果手机的仿冒品，往往采用廉价塑料外壳，或者内存较小、屏幕分辨率较低或相机较差。去年，中国品牌谷蜂推出了一款售价150美元的iPhone 5克隆机，上市时间甚至早于苹果在中国推出iPhone 5。
It bears a resemblance to Apple’s phone, but the Goophone i5 is different in an important respect — it runs on a version of Google’s Android software.
谷蜂i5看上去和苹果手机有些相象，但两者有一个重要区别——谷蜂i5采用的是一款谷歌(Google)的Android软件操作系统。
The challenge for the Chinese makers is to go global. Coolpad began selling its Quattro 4g in the United States through MetroPCS, a mobile network operator. It drew mixed reviews in the United States, but it sold for less than $100 under some promotions.
中国手机制造商面临的挑战是走向世界。酷派已开始通过移动网络运营商MetroPCS在美国销售它的Quattro 4g手机。它在美国收到的评价褒贬不一，但在进行一些促销活动时，该手机的售价还不到100美元。
Huawei, a Chinese company with revenue of 220 billion renminbi ($35.8 billion) last year, has big ambitions for international markets. In June, it introduced a phone called the Ascend P6 in London. The P6 includes many Apple and Samsung-style features, all packed into a thin 6-millimeter case. The Ascend P6 lacks the ability to use the fastest new mobile networks, so-called 4G technology, but it costs much less than an iPhone 5 or a Galaxy S4. In China it costs about $430.
中国公司华为也雄心勃勃地想要进军国际市场，去年，公司的总收入达到2200亿元人民币。今年6月，华为在伦敦推出了一款型号为Ascend P6的手机。Ascend P6的许多功能具有苹果和三星手机的风格，全部囊括在一个6毫米的超薄机身之中。Ascend P6不能使用最快的新型移动网络——即所谓的4G技术，但它的售价远远低于iPhone 5和Galaxy S4。它在中国的售价约为430美元。
Huawei said it planned to sell the phone in 100 countries, including China and many European markets. But, at least for now, it will not sell it in the United States, where the company has been labeled a security risk by Congress because of allegations — vehemently denied by the company — of possible links to the Chinese Army.
华为表示，它计划在100个国家销售该款手机，其中包括中国和许多欧洲市场。但是，至少目前，它不会在美国出售这款手机——由于被指控可能和中国军方有联系，华为长期被美国国会认定为具有安全风险，这些指控遭到华为强烈否认。
Analysts have been predicting that Apple will need to start selling a cheaper phone, though the company has been typically silent about its plans. If Apple wants to maintain its share, it “will have to move down market,” said Mark Newman, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in Hong Kong.
一直以来，分析师都预测，苹果必须开始销售一款低价手机，尽管该公司对其计划总是保持沉默。桑福德·伯恩斯坦驻香港的分析师马克·纽曼(Mark Newman)说，如果苹果想要保持其市场份额，它“将不得不开始生产低端产品”。
Apple has been negotiating with China Mobile to sell iPhones. If it succeeds in landing the largest wireless carrier in China, the company should easily increase its sales volume.
苹果一直在就iPhone的销售和中国移动进行协商。如果它能和这家中国最大的无线运营商达成协议，苹果应该能很容易地提高它的销售额。
Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said in April that the company planned to double the number of Apple stores in China — it has 11 — over the next two years. “We still see a significant opportunity in China,” Mr. Cook told analysts.
4月，苹果的首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)称，公司计划在接下来两年时间内，将中国的苹果零售店数量翻倍（目前有11家）。库克告诉分析师们，“我们依然认为中国存在巨大的机会。”
Analysts say Samsung is somewhat better positioned than Apple to take advantage of the expected surge in sales of cheaper smartphones because it already sells a broader range of handsets in China, including three priced at less than $450. Galaxy Grand at 2,700 renminbi ($440), Galaxy Style at 1,700 renminbi ($277) and Galaxy Trend, which starts at 900 renminbi ($146).
分析师称，从某种程度上讲，三星比苹果处于更有利的位置，能更好地利用较便宜智能手机销量的预期增长，因为它在中国销售手机的售价范围大过苹果，其中三款的价格均在450美元以下。Galaxy Grand售价2700元人民币，Galaxy Style售价1700元人民币，而Galaxy Trend的起始价则为900元人民币。
Samsung declined to discuss its strategy for China, saying only that it planned to introduce “various products that meet consumer needs in the future.”
三星拒绝讨论其中国市场的策略，只是说计划“未来会推出不同产品，迎合消费者需求”。
What happens in China is also important because success there could help smaller companies develop the strength to move into emerging markets around the globe. While most smartphones are made in China, Chinese handset makers have so far struggled to export phones under their own brand names.
在中国市场发展成功与否十分重要，这也因为在那里取得成功可以帮助小型公司积蓄实力，进军全球的新兴市场。尽管大多数智能手机是中国制造，但迄今为止，中国手机制造商出口自主品牌的手机仍十分困难。
“The fear for Apple and Samsung is that if they don’t maintain a strong position in China, other players, mostly Chinese players, will do that instead, and then use that as a springboard to attack them in other markets,” said Ian Fogg, an analyst at IHS.
“苹果和三星所担心的是，如果它们不能保持住在中国的有利位置，其他商家、主要是中国商家，将取而代之，然后利用这个作为跳板，在其他市场向它们发起挑战，”环球通视(IHS)的分析师伊恩·福格(Ian Fogg)说。