TOKYO — The two biggest smartphone rivals, Samsung Electronics and Apple, can each find reasons to cheer about industry sales numbers reported this week.
东京——作为智能手机行业两个最大的竞争者，三星电子(Samsung Electronics)和苹果(Apple)都有理由为本周发布的销售数据欢呼。
Samsung recorded its highest share of smartphone shipments to date in the third quarter, when it accounted for 35 percent of the total worldwide, according to Strategy Analytics, a research firm. Samsung shipped 88.4 million smartphones in the three-month period, up from 56.9 million a year earlier, the firm said.
来自市场研究公司“策略分析”(Strategy Analytics)的数据显示，今年第三季度，三星的出货量在全球智能手机市场中占35%，是迄今为止的最高份额。策略分析公司还称，三星第三季度的出货量为8840万部，而去年同期的数据为5690万部。
Apple showed more modest gains, with its global shipments growing to 33.8 million from 26.9 million a year earlier. Its market share fell, to 13.4 percent from 15.6 percent last year, while several Chinese brands made advances. Huawei pushed into third place worldwide, with 12.7 million smartphones shipped, up from 7.6 million in the third quarter of 2012.
苹果则呈现出较为温和的增长态势，三季度的出货量从去年同期的2690万部上升到了3380万部。不过，苹果的市场占有率从去年的15.6%降至13.4%，若干中国品牌则取得了进步。华为第三季度的出货量从去年的760万部上升到了1270万部，在全球市场上挤进前三。
But Apple regained momentum in the last days of the quarter, when it began selling its new iPhone 5S and iPhone 5C in a number of countries.
不过，苹果在三季度末期重获增长动力，原因是在一些国家启动了新品iPhone 5S和iPhone 5C的发售工作。
One of those was Japan. Apple experienced a remarkable surge in sales here, thanks in part to a new agreement with the biggest mobile phone operator, NTT Docomo, which began carrying iPhones for the first time.
日本就是其中之一。苹果在日本的销量激增，这要部分归功于公司与该国最大的移动电话运营商都科摩公司(NTT DoCoMo)新近签订了协议。都科摩得以首次经营iPhone业务。
A report from a different research firm, Counterpoint, showed that Apple increased its share of mobile phone sales in Japan to 34 percent in September from 14 percent in August, even though the phones were released only on Sept. 20. Apple has long been strong in Japan, but the September performance marked Apple’s highest monthly share of the overall cellphone market, Counterpoint said.
另有一家名为Counterpoint的市场调研公司发布的报告显示，苹果在日本手机市场的占有率从今年8月的14%增长到了9月的34%，尽管新款iPhone到了9月20日才上市。Counterpoint表示，苹果在日本市场的表现一直很强劲，但9月是它的月度市场占有率最高的一次。
“Apple mainly benefited from expanding its channels to Japan’s No. 1 mobile operator, NTT Docomo, and thus instantly gaining access to a base of more than 60 million mobile subscribers,” Neil Shah, an analyst at Counterpoint, wrote in a statement.
“苹果主要得益于把销售渠道拓展到了日本头号移动运营商都科摩，从而可以立即接触到人数超过6000万的移动用户群，”Counterpoint的分析师尼尔·沙阿(Neil Shah)在报告里写道。
The report showed that the Docomo deal has put additional pressure on Japanese smartphone makers, which were already struggling to compete at home and abroad. One of those, Fujitsu, saw its share of the Japanese handset market fall to 10.6 percent in September from 19 percent in August. Another, Sharp, also showed a big decline, to 13.6 percent from 17 percent.
上述报告显示，苹果与都科摩达成的协议，给原本就在海内外市场上苦苦挣扎的日本智能手机生产商带来了额外的压力。富士通(Fujitsu)就是其中之一，它在本土的市场占有率从今年8月的19%下滑至9月的10.6%。还有一家是夏普(Sharp)，其9月份的市场占有率也大幅下滑到了13.6%，而8月份则为17%。
Samsung, with about 6 percent of cellphone sales in Japan in September, has never been a big player in Japan. But the company’s strategy of offering a range of handsets across a broad spectrum of prices appeared to be paying off elsewhere.
三星从来不是日本手机市场上的主角，今年9月在此地的占有率约为6%。可是，它所采取的在巨大的价格区间内推出一系列设备的策略，似乎在别处见到了成效。
Strategy Analytics said the growth in Samsung’s shipments in the third quarter was driven by strong sales of the new Galaxy Note 3, a premium-price “phablet” ­— a cross between a phone and a tablet — as well as the Galaxy Y, a low-priced handset that is popular in India and other developing markets. This offset the effect of sluggish sales of the company’s flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S4.
策略分析公司称，三星第三季度的出货量增长是由Galaxy Note 3和Galaxy Y的强劲销售带动的。前者是三星的新款高价“平板手机”，即手机与平板的跨界产品，后者则是平价手机，在印度等发展中国家备受欢迎。这抵消了公司智能手机旗舰产品Galaxy S4销售疲软造成的影响。
Apple’s global growth in smartphone shipments lagged the industry average in the third quarter, but Strategy Analytics said things were looking up for the American company.
苹果第三季度的智能手机全球出货量增长低于行业平均水平，但策略分析公司表示，这家美国企业的情况正在好转。
“We expect Apple to rebound sharply and regain share in the upcoming fourth quarter of 2013 due to high demand for its new iPhone 5S model,” Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics, said in a statement.
“由于市场对苹果新近推出的iPhone 5S机型需求旺盛，我们预计该公司将在接下来的2013年第四季度强劲反弹，收复失地，”策略分析公司的分析师尼尔·莫斯顿(Neil Mawston)在公告中称。
Yet another report, from International Data Corporation, showed strong gains in smartphone shipments, posting a 39 percent gain in the third quarter from a year earlier and a 9 percent increase from the second quarter.
来自国际数据公司(International Data Corporation)的报告则显示，今年第三季度，全球智能手机出货量增长强劲，同比大增39%，环比增加9%。
IDC cited the popularity of the Android mobile operating system, used by most Samsung smartphones and many others, as the driving force behind the strong growth. But the broad appeal of Android has also created challenges because many phones have come to resemble each other. As a result, a handful of companies, including Huawei, LG Electronics, Lenovo and ZTE, are scrambling for third place, behind Samsung and Apple, changing rankings from quarter to quarter.
国际数据公司把这种强劲增长背后的驱动力归为Android移动操作系统的普及。三星的多数机型，以及其他许多品牌的产品搭载了这一系统。可是，Android的大受欢迎也带来了挑战，因为许多机型变得彼此相似。结果，包括华为、LG电子(LG Electronics)、联想和中兴在内的五六家企业在激烈争夺三星与苹果身后老三的位置，每个季度的排名都在变化。
“Beyond Samsung and Apple at the top of the rankings is a tight race of vendors trying to break out from the pack,” said Ramon Llamas, a researcher at IDC.
“除了排在最前面的三星和苹果，各大厂商激烈角逐，都在想方设法脱颖而出，”国际数据公司的研究员利亚马斯·拉蒙(Ramon Llamas)说。