Q. Your company allows employees to bring their own portable electronic devices — like phones and tablets — to the office. Does that mean you should feel free to use them whenever you see fit? 
问：你的公司允许员工将他们自己的便携电子设备带到办公室，比如手机和平板电脑，这是否意味着你可以在觉得适当的时候随意使用它们？
A. Although these devices help keep you accessible to colleagues and clients, they should be used with discretion and in ways that help you do your job, not for things like playing games or updating your Facebook status, says Anna Post, etiquette expert at the Emily Post Institute in Burlington, Vt.
答：位于佛蒙特州柏林顿的艾米莉·波斯特研究所（Emily Post Institute）的礼仪专家安娜·波斯特（Anna Post）表示，虽然这些设备有助于你和同事、客户保持联络，但也应该谨慎使用，并且要以有助于工作的方式，而不是用来玩游戏或更新个人Facebook状态之类。
As much as possible, give your full attention to those with whom you’re speaking or meeting, rather than allowing your attention to wander to a ringing cellphone or a new text message. “The jury is still out on whether or not we can multitask effectively,” Ms. Post says, “but the perception of you when you are typing on a device is that your attention is divided.”
尽可能多地把你的全部注意力集中在那些你正在谈话或会见的人身上，而不是分心于手机来电或新的短信。波斯特说：“我们到底能否有效地一心多用目前仍未可知，但当你在电子设备上打字时，你就让人感觉你的注意力是分散的。”
Q. During meetings, you like to take notes on your tablet, smartphone or laptop. Is that acceptable?
问：在开会时，你喜欢在平板电脑、智能手机或笔记本电脑上做笔记。那是可以接受的吗？
A. Smartphones and tablets are a fairly new presence in meeting rooms, and unlike laptops, they are usually associated with games, texting and other nonwork activities. That can send a message that you aren’t paying attention, says Matt Eventoff, owner of Princeton Public Speaking, a communications training business in Princeton, N.J. “As soon as you take the device out, tell the other attendees, ‘I use my iPad or phone to take notes.’ That way, no one will question if you’re paying attention,” he says.
答：新泽西州的一家沟通培训企业普林斯顿公共演讲公司的老板麦特·伊文多夫（Matt Eventoff）认为，智能手机和平板电脑在会议室还是新生事物，与笔记本电脑不同的是，它们通常与打游戏、发短信等非工作行为联系在一起，这会传递出你心不在焉的信号，但“只要你一拿出这种设备的时候就告诉其他参会人‘我用iPad或手机做笔记’，这样就没人会怀疑你是否专心了。”
If you like taking notes on your laptop, keep in mind that it can be a barrier between you and others. “The screen often blocks part of the other person’s body or face,” Mr. Eventoff says. “That’s why I think a tablet or phone is actually the better way to take notes.”
伊文多夫说，如果你喜欢用笔记本电脑做笔记，那要记住，它会成为你和别人之间的屏障，“电脑屏幕经常会挡住其他人的部分身体或脸，这就是我为什么认为平板电脑或手机其实才是做笔记的更好方式。”
Q. Is there any harm in discreetly reading personal e-mails or text messages on portable devices while in the office and among co-workers?
问：在办公室里以及在同事当中小心查看便携设备里的私人电子邮件或短信有什么害处？
A. Even if you are discreet, it’s easy to get caught up in reading and answering messages. You may wind up spending so much time hunched over your device that you miss important social cues and signals that can only be picked up face to face, says Rachel Weingarten, a business etiquette expert and president of Interrobang, a marketing strategy firm in New York.
答：即使你很小心，在阅读和回复信息时也很容易被人看见。纽约一家营销策略公司Interrobang的总裁、商业礼仪专家雷切尔·维恩嘉顿（Rachel Weingarten）指出，不要再在电脑设备上花太多时间，以免错过只有在面对面交流才能获得的重要的社交线索和信号。
Q. What about answering your cellphone while at work?
问：在上班时接听手机怎么样？
A. If you must take a personal call, find a private place to talk — not the hallway or areas where you can be overheard, says Ms. Weingarten, author of “Career and Corporate Cool.”
答：《酷职业和酷公司》（Career and Corporate Cool）一书的作者维恩嘉顿说，如果你必须接听私人电话，就找一个私密的场所交谈，避开走廊或能被别人听到的区域。
If you are in a meeting, take only urgent calls. Let others in the meeting know that you’re expecting the call, set your phone to the vibrate mode and leave the room to answer it, Mr. Eventoff says.
伊文多夫说，如果你在会议中，就只接听紧急电话。让与会的其他人知道你正在等那个电话，把手机设定成震动模式，并在接听电话时离开房间。
Don’t wear your Bluetooth or other wireless headset, says Mark A. Gilmore, president of Wired Integrations, a consulting firm in San Jose, Calif. “No one wants to stare at your blinking blue light during their presentation,” he says. “It’s rude.”
加州圣何塞的Wired Integrations咨询公司总裁马克·吉尔莫（Mark A. Gilmore）建议，不要戴蓝牙耳机或其他无线耳机，“在做报告时，没人想盯着你一闪一闪的蓝光。这么做是不礼貌的。”
Q. If you are running a meeting or a presentation, how do you make sure that attendees pay attention to the speakers and not to their phones and tablets?
问：如果你在举办一场会议或报告，如何确保与会者把注意力集中在演讲者身上，而不是他们的手机和平板电脑上？
A. Before the meeting, set ground rules for using the devices, Ms. Post says; ask everyone to turn off phones or tablets in order to give full attention to the presenters. “Good manners are really concerned with social expectations,” she says, “and when you make those expectations clear, it’s easier to raise an eyebrow if someone picks up a phone.”
答：波斯特说，在开会前，要制定使用那些设备的基本规则；要求每个人关掉手机或平板电脑，以便全神贯注于演讲人。她说：“良好的行为的确与社会期望有关，当你明确说出这些期望时，如果还有人接电话，就更容易引人侧目。”
Q. Although the mobile devices are yours, the Wi-Fi network you are using belongs to the company, as does some of the information you view and store. What precautions should you take to protect your company and yourself from liability if you lose your phone or tablet?
问：虽然移动设备是你自己的，但使用的无线网络、浏览和储存的部分信息都属于公司。如果手机或平板电脑遗失，应该采取什么预防措施，以免公司和个人承担责任？
A. First, find out whether your company already has an “acceptable use” policy for mobile devices. If it doesn’t, put your own protections in place, says Kieran Norton, a principal in the security and privacy practice of Deloitte, the professional services firm.
答：专业服务公司德勤（Deloitte）的安全和隐私活动主管凯蓝·诺顿（Kieran Norton）指出，首先要弄清你的公司是否已制定了移动设备“允许使用的”政策。如果没有，就自行采取适当的保护措施。
“Make sure a PIN number is required to unlock your device and if possible enable auto wipe, which allows you to remotely wipe all the information if the device is lost or stolen,” he says. You may need help from the manufacturer, your wireless carrier or your company’s information technology department to do that, and to encrypt the data on your device so it can’t be read if it falls into someone else’s hands, Mr. Norton says.
诺顿说：“确保要先输入密码才能解锁设备；如果可能，就启动自动清除功能，让你在设备丢失或失窃时可以远程清除里面的所有资料。”他表示，你可能需要生产商、无线网络运营商或公司信息技术部门的协助来做这些事，并为你设备里的数据加密，这样即便你的设备落入他人之手，别人也看不到什么。