No wonder Samsung Electronics is so busy looking for a new hit gadget. Its signature product, the smartphone, is facing unanticipated challenges.
难怪三星电子(Samsung Electronics)正忙着找下一个热门玩意。该公司的标志性产品智能手机正面临着出乎意料的挑战。
Samsung, the world’s largest maker of smartphones, said Tuesday that its operating profit in the fourth quarter had declined from the third quarter of  2013, and also compared with the fourth  quarter of 2012. 
三星是全世界最大的智能手机制造商，公司在周二称，其2013年第四季度的营业利润与第三季度以及2012年第四季度相比，都有所下降。
As usual, the company, based in  Suwon, South Korea, released only a bare-bones forecast in advance of a full quarterly earnings report later in the month. It provided no reasons for the expected decline. But analysts said softness in smartphones, which account for more than half of Samsung’s earnings, was probably a big reason.
与以往一样，这家位于韩国水原市的公司目前发布的只是一个简单预测，公司季度收入的完整报告将在本月底公布。公司没有对预测的收益下滑做出解释。但是分析人士称，智能手机行业的疲软可能是一个重要原因，三星总收益的一半以上来自智能手机。
Samsung still has a roughly one-third share of global smartphone sales, but it faces new challenges to its dominance. At the low end, a number of Chinese companies are offering phones with similar features at a lower price. More worrying for investors are new signs of vulnerability in premium-price phones, which account for the vast majority of the profit in the business. 
虽然三星仍占有全球智能手机市场销售份额的约三分之一，但公司的主导地位面临新的挑战。在低端市场，几家中国公司都在以更低的价格推出具有类似功能的手机。而更让投资者担心的是，高端手机市场最近出现新的脆弱迹象，高端手机是该行业利润的主要来源。
For several years, Samsung and Apple have been battling for leadership in high-end phones. Now Apple is making new gains. In November, it sold 65 percent of the smartphones priced at $400 or more worldwide, up from 35 percent a year earlier, according to Counterpoint Technology Market Research.  And that was before Apple added China  Mobile, the world’s largest network operator, as an iPhone partner, with sales set to begin this month.
几年来，三星和苹果(Apple)一直在竞争高端手机市场的主导地位。苹果的市场份额最近有新的增长。根据Counterpoint技术市场研究公司(Counterpoint Technology Market Research)的数据，去年11月份，苹果在全世界卖出的售价为400美元（约合2400元人民币）或以上的智能手机中占的份额是65%，高于一年前的35%。这是在世界上最大的网络运营商中国移动加入到苹果iPhone的合作伙伴行列之前，中国移动计划本月开始销售iPhone。
In the same period, Samsung’s share of the premium market fell to 21 percent from 40 percent, according to Counterpoint.
Counterpoint技术市场研究公司的数据显示，同期内，三星在高端手机市场中的份额从40%下降至21%。
‘‘One by one, players in the premium  price band have been squeezed out, and now it looks like Samsung may be  squeezed out as well,’’ said Tom Kang, an analyst at Counterpoint.
Counterpoint技术市场研究公司分析师汤姆·康(Tom Kang)说，“高价位市场中的公司一个一个地被挤出去，现在看来，三星可能也会被挤出去。”
A year ago, Samsung had two strong entrants in this category, the Galaxy S3  smartphone and the Note 2, a so-called  phablet, or cross between a phone and a  tablet computer. But the current flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S4, has been a relative disappointment, leaving a new phablet, the Note 3, to carry the load.
一年前，三星在高端领域有两大产品：Galaxy S3智能手机和Note 2，后者是所谓的平板手机(Phablet)，是介于平板电脑和手机之间的一种产品。但目前，智能手机旗舰产品Galaxy S4的表现相对而言令人失望，只剩下新的平板手机Note 3来担当顶梁柱。
Faced with sluggish sales, Samsung resorted to price cuts in the fourth  quarter in an effort to clear inventories, analysts said. The average selling price  of the company’s smartphones was $290, down from $320 a year earlier, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein.
分析人士称，面对产品滞销问题，三星在第四季度开始采取减价的方式试图减少库存。桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的分析师称，三星智能手机的平均售价从一年前的320美元下降为290美元。
Bernstein estimated that overall sales  of Samsung handsets, including smartphones and old-fashioned feature  phones, slipped to 119 million in the fourth quarter from 120 million in the third quarter. Normally, the fourth quarter is a strong period because of  holiday sales.
据伯恩斯公司估计，包括智能手机和传统手机在内的三星手机第四季度的总销售量从第三季度的1.2亿部下降至1.19亿部。一般情况下，由于节日促销，第四季度是销售旺季。
Samsung is expected to introduce a new flagship phone to succeed the  Galaxy S4 this winter. It is experimenting with new kinds of handsets, including ones with curved screens, and doing research on devices with flexible displays.
三星有望在今冬推出一款新的主要手机产品，以接替Galaxy S4。公司也在试验新类型的手机，包括曲屏手机，还在研发具有柔软显示屏的设备。
Last fall, the company introduced a so-called smart watch called the Galaxy  Gear, which works as a companion to certain smartphones. At the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this week, it has introduced or shown off a  flurry of new products, including high-end home appliances, tablet computers and televisions. One of the new TVs features a screen that can be flat or curved, according to the viewer’s preference; another has a giant 105-inch, ultra-high- definition display. 
去年秋天，该公司推出了被称为Galaxy Gear的所谓智能手表，可与特定的智能手机配套使用。本周在拉斯维加斯举办的消费类电子产品展(Consumer Electronics Show)上，三星推出、或者说炫耀了一系列新产品，包括高端家用电器、平板电脑和电视。其中一款新电视机展示的屏幕既可以是平的也可以是弯曲的，根据观看者的嗜好而定；另一款电视机则拥有一个105英寸的超高分辨率显示屏。
But Samsung relies on smartphones for more than half of its earnings, and  the new challenges in that business have raised concerns among some investors. The forecast Tuesday was below most analysts’ estimates.
但是，三星公司依靠智能手机来获得其收益的半数以上，智能手机行业面临的新挑战已经引起一些投资者的担忧。周二的预测低于大多数分析人士的估计。
The company predicted operating income of about 8.3 trillion won, or $7.8 billion, for the final three months of the  year, down from 10.2 trillion won in the third quarter and 8.84 trillion won in the  fourth quarter of 2012. Revenue is expected to total about 59 trillion won, roughly even with the third quarter.
三星预测去年最后三个月的营业利润大约为8.3万亿韩元（约合470亿元人民币），与第三季度的10.2万亿韩元和2012年第四季度的8.84万亿韩元相比，都有所下降。公司第四季度的总收入预计为59万亿韩元，与第三季度基本持平。
Analysts say Samsung’s earnings were reduced by a special bonus to employees to mark the 20th anniversary of what the company calls its new management initiative. In 1993, the Samsung group patriarch, Lee Kun-hee,  began a drive to raise the quality of the  company’s products, telling managers to ‘‘change everything except your wife and children.’’
分析人士称三星收益减少是因为给员工发了一笔特别奖金，以纪念该公司所谓的新管理行动实施20周年。1993年，三星集团元老李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)启动了一项旨在提升公司产品质量的行动，他告诉管理者们，“除了你的妻子和孩子，改变所有的东西。”
Byun Han-joon, an analyst at KB Investment and Securities, estimated that the special bonus cost Samsung 800 billion won. Other analysts said the recent strength of the South Korean currency might have lowered earnings by reducing the amount of won received for exports.
KB投资和证券公司(KB Investment & Securities)的分析师卞涵俊（Byun Han-joon，音译）估计，三星为这笔特别奖金支出了8000亿韩元。其他分析人士则表示，韩元近期的坚挺可能导致了收入的降低，因为出口产品的所得转换为韩元时变少了。
‘‘I don’t think that today’s results show any fundamental problem in Samsung Electronics,’’ Mr. Byun said. But he added that the new forecast raised the possibility of a faster-than-expected swing from high-end to lower-priced smartphones, which would continue to put pressure on the company’s earnings in future quarters, unless Samsung comes up with some new, must-have products.
卞涵俊说，“我不认为今天的结果表明三星电子有任何根本的问题。”但他补充说，新的预测增加了从高端智能手机到低价智能手机摇摆的速度比预期要快的可能性，这可能将会在未来几个季度内给公司的收益带来压力，除非三星能推出某种新的消费者必购产品。
‘‘This now gets worth thinking about in depth,’’ Mr. Byun said.
卞涵俊说，“这才是值得人们深思的问题。”