Several winters ago, Guus van Leeuwen, who was then an industrial design student, was riding with his girlfriend in a horse-drawn sleigh in Sweden. Wrapped in reindeer pelts, the couple watched steam rise from the bodies of the sweating animals in front of them. That’s when “it all came together,” Mr. van Leeuwen said.
几年前的冬天，胡斯·范莱文(Guus van Leeuwen)还是工业设计专业的学生，当时他和女友在瑞士一起乘坐马拉雪橇。两人裹着鹿皮大衣，看着眼前大汗淋漓的马身上腾起了阵阵蒸汽。也就是在那个时候，“我的脑子里突然有了灵感，”范莱文回忆道。
Returning to the Netherlands, he bent metal rods into life-size animal sculptures, then draped them in skins and presented them as his graduate project at the Design Academy Eindhoven. In the group were a red deer, a ram and an arctic fox, and every one of them was a radiator.
回到荷兰后，他将金属杆弯折成实物大小的动物雕塑，在上面装饰好皮毛，作为自己在艾因霍恩设计学院(Design Academyy Eindhoven)的研究生项目。用作素材的动物分别是一匹马鹿、一头公羊和一只北极狐，每座雕塑都是一台暖气。
Mr. van Leeuwen is the extreme designer who finds poetry in home heating devices. His Domestic Animals radiators, which he sells in an electric version for about $7,700 to $11,600 (not including shipping), recall the days when a hearth was the focal point of a home and livestock were welcome in the family huddle. The skins are stuffed with wheat kernels, effective in retaining warmth, and can be lifted from their armatures and wrapped around one’s shoulders.
范莱文是一名追求极致的设计师，就连在家用暖气设备上，他都能找到诗意。他的“家畜散热片”(Domestic Animals radiator)有电动版发售，售价从7700到2.26万美元（约合人民币4.69万到13.77万元，不含运费）。这些散热片让人回想起了全家人围坐在火炉旁的旧日时光，那时候，家畜也是可以一起烤火的。散热片的装饰皮毛内填充了小麦籽粒，可以有效保暖。装饰皮毛可以从装置的“盔甲”上拆下来，当做披肩使用。
But Mr. van Leeuwen is not alone among Europeans in reimagining the radiator as sculpture. His Continental peers have designed dozens of conversation starters, radiators that resemble a forest grove, a paper clip, a garden hose that uncoils and snakes around a room, and even a wall-hung homage to an artistic masterpiece. Hotech, an Italian radiator company, has a collection with names like Chagall and Fabergé. Its David model is a beefy male torso.
不过范莱文并不是唯一一个将散热片的外观制造成雕塑的欧洲人。欧洲大陆的同行已经设计出不少备受热议的同类产品，它们外观各异，有的像小树林，有的像回形针，有的像花园软管一样舒展、盘旋于室内，有的甚至像一幅旨在向某件艺术杰作致敬的壁饰。荷兰暖气公司Hotech就有这样一些产品系列，以夏加尔(Chagall)、法贝热（Fabergé，1846-1920，俄罗斯著名金匠、珠宝首饰匠人、工艺美术设计家——译注）等艺术家的名字命名。该公司还有一款散热片名为“大卫”，形似健硕的男性身躯。
In this country, we are less fanciful with our heating apparatuses. The typical American radiator is an inconspicuous strip that runs along the baseboard or a corrugated rectangle that hugs the wall. If you live in a prewar big-city apartment building, you may be tyrannized by a steam-heated cast-iron radiator that sounds like a sociopathic amateur percussionist and feels like the forehead of Satan.
美国的暖气设备在设计上就没这么新潮了，美国典型的散热片就是一长条不起眼的暖气片，沿着护墙板或波纹管排布。如果你住在战前的大都市公寓楼里，可能就得为暖气问题大伤脑筋了。那里通常配备的是蒸汽加热的铸铁散热片，它发出的声音就像一个反社会的业余打击乐手，而外表给人的感觉就像撒旦的额头。
Why are American radiators so uncool?
美国的暖气为什么这么老土？
Let’s start with the fact that, as countries go, the United States is not exactly radiator-friendly. Richard Trethewey, the heating and plumbing expert for the television show “This Old House,” said that whereas 99 percent of European homes are heated with hot water (otherwise known as wet or hydronic systems), from 6 to 11 percent of American homes have them, “depending on who you read.”
首先我们要明确一个事实，那就是，不同的国家国情不同，暖气在美国并不太受欢迎。为电视节目《老房子》(This Old House)担任顾问的供暖和管道专家理查德·特雷斯威(Richard Trethewey)表示，99%的欧洲家庭都采用热水供暖（也就是水力供暖系统），而在美国，这一比例只有6%到11%，“取决于你调查的对象”。
Instead, the vast majority of Americans heat their homes with warm air circulated through ducts and blown out of wall registers. Because the same forced-air system can also circulate cool air, it is the top choice here. (Europeans are less hung up on cold comforts like ice in their drinks and air-conditioning.)
大多数美国家庭的供暖系统是靠暖空气在管道内流通、同时采用墙式进风器被动进风。由于这种强制通风系统也可用于冷空气流通，于是成为美国家庭的首选（相比之下，欧洲人对于加冰饮料和空调这类解暑措施就没那么感冒了）。
And a small radiator market means there is a lack of incentive for manufacturers to produce and distribute avant-garde models.
因此，由于市场狭小，美国的制造商就没有动力生产和发售款式新潮的散热片了。
Another obstacle to a wider choice of radiators is Americans’ hunger for surface area.
暖气款式较少的另一个原因就是，美国人不想占用墙面空间。
The European designers of decorative radiators have a big canvas to play with by necessity, because many of these devices run at the lowest possible hot-water temperature, to save energy. A number of European countries have mandated that no heating system can operate at higher than 75 degrees Celsius (167 degrees Fahrenheit). Which means a radiator’s dimensions must be large enough to generate sufficient heat.
在欧洲，装饰性散热片的设计师有很大的施展空间。这是因为许多设备为了节能，都会将热水的水温尽量压低。一些欧洲国家已作出规定，任何供暖系统的水温都不得超过75摄氏度（167华氏度）。这也就意味着，散热片的尺寸必须足够大，才能产生充足的热能。
If you live in a Victorian mansion in New England, you may be open to a hunk of metal, like a classic upright cast-iron radiator or even a contemporary art-style one that appropriates a wall, said Holly Cratsley, the principal of Nashawtuc Architects, in Concord, Mass. But as Americans reduce the size of their homes, they imitate Europeans only insofar as they seek out smaller appliances. That goes double for those who live in apartments.
霍利·克拉茨利(Holly Cratsley)是位于马萨诸塞州康科德镇(Concord)的建筑公司Nashawtuc Architects的负责人，她表示，如果你住在新英格兰地区的一座维多利亚式豪宅内，你可能就不会介意在家里添置一台大件的金属家具，比如经典的直立式铸铁暖气，甚至占满整面墙的现代艺术风格暖气。但是，随着美国人减小了住房面积，他们在家居装潢上模仿欧洲人的同时，也只能购置较小的家具。这一点，对于住在公寓里的人来说尤其如此。
So even if the radiator is an elegant woven grid of steel (like Stefano Giovannoni’s Trame model for the Italian company Tubes) or a handsome oak or walnut-veneered rectangular slab (like Phil Ward’s Woody model for the British company Eskimo), most of us are unwilling to commit to the colonization of wall space. “The push for my clients is more to liberate the walls rather than to add to the walls,” Ms. Cratsley said.
散热片不乏新潮的款式，有的像一张钢丝编成的网，看起来颇为雅致——比如斯蒂凡诺·乔凡诺尼(Stefano Giovannoni)为意大利公司Tubes设计的“纬纱”(Trame)散热片；有的像一块用橡木或胡桃木贴面的方形板，看起来颇为帅气——比如菲尔·沃德(Phil Ward)为英国公司Eskimo设计的木质(Woody)散热片。但是，由于上文所说的原因，就算这些产品的款式再怎么新潮，大多数美国人还是不愿意占用墙面。“我的客户关心的问题是，怎样才能让墙面尽可能清爽，而不是在上面加东西，”克拉茨利表示。
One place European-style radiators are welcome, however, is the bathroom. Heated towel bars, long used by Northern Europeans to make their damp, cold winters more endurable, are gaining traction here. (“It’s like a cool app on your phone,” Mr. Trethewey said. “Anybody who tries it wants to get one.”) The versatile devices can work with hot water systems or plug into electrical outlets. Some are on timers, to supply you with a warm towel when you emerge from the shower, and many will heat the whole bathroom. Americans don’t even mind when they’re fanciful.
不过，欧式暖气在有一个地方是比较受欢迎的，那就是浴室。长久以来，北欧人为了熬过湿冷的冬季，一直在使用电热毛巾架。如今，电热毛巾架也开始在美国受到热捧。（“这就像手机里的一个很酷的应用一样，”特雷斯威说，“任何试用过它的人都会想买一个。”）这种多功能设备可以与热水系统配合使用，也可以插电。有些带有定时功能，能在你洗完澡时奉上一条热毛巾，很多款式还能为整间浴室供暖。就算这种设备的款式花里胡哨，美国人也不介意。
Up to a point.
不过，这也是有限度的。
When I contacted Bisque, a British company, for information about a towel warmer called Archibald that looks like dangling coat hangers, I was referred to Runtal, a Swiss company that distributes Bisque products in the United States. No Archibalds are sold on these shores, alas. But Americans can buy Hot Spring, a radiator that looks like a coiled spring, and it will work even with steam heat, a company representative told me.
有一次，我联系了英国公司Bisque，想咨询一款名为“阿奇博尔德”(Archibald)的电热毛巾架，它的外形就像悬挂着的衣架。Bisque让我联系了瑞士公司Runtal，该公司负责Bisque产品在美国的发售。可惜，美国的商店没有我要找的产品。不过公司代表告诉我，在美国可以买到“热弹簧”(Hot Spring)，是一台外形像螺旋弹簧的散热片，它甚至可以和蒸汽热系统配合使用。
I was cheered to learn that Hot Spring was the work of Paul Priestman, a British industrial designer better known for aircraft interiors and high-speed trains, although radiators occupy an honored corner of his portfolio. Twenty years ago, he designed Cactus, an electric radiator produced by Bisque that looks like a stylized succulent and was acquired by the Victoria and Albert Museum for its permanent collection.
我欣喜地发现，“热弹簧”是英国的工业设计师保罗·普利斯特曼(Paul Priestman)的作品。普利斯特曼在机舱内饰和高速列车领域的名气更大；不过，在散热片设计领域，他也载誉颇丰。20年前他设计了“仙人掌”，那是一台由Bisque生产的电暖气，外形像一株风格化的多肉植物。“仙人掌”已被维多利亚和阿尔伯特博物馆（Victoria and Albert Museum，位于英国伦敦的工艺美术、装置及应用艺术的博物馆，成立于1852年——译注）买下，作为永久藏品。
Here was someone with a history who could speak to the differences in American and European radiator design, though anyone should think twice before using the word “novelty” with him. Mr. Priestman is an old-school modernist who values function over style. For example, his recent towel warmer for Iconic, called Triarc, is shaped to allow warmth to radiate even when a damp cloth is draped over it. He referred to the design as “a highly efficient heat exchanger.”
普利斯特曼是从业多年的行家，他对欧美两地在暖气设计上的区别最有发言权。只不过，要把“新潮”这个词用在他身上必须三思。普利斯特曼是老派的现代主义者，他把功能看得比风格更重要。比方说，他最近为Iconic公司设计了一款名为Triarc的电热毛巾架，其结构使得它即便被一块湿布覆盖，也能散发出热量。他将这一设计称为“高效的热交换器”。
“Radiators are strange things because people wonder, ‘Is it part of the building or is it part of my interior decoration?’ ” he said about the relative banality of American models and the seeming indifference of American consumers. “Some people feel they shouldn’t change radiators because it’s like changing the windows or door. Maybe that’s why the radiator market in some countries hasn’t taken off that way.”
“暖气的定位比较尴尬，因为人们总弄不清，它究竟是属于建筑的一部分，还是我的室内装饰。”普利斯特曼谈到美国国内的暖气款式单一、消费者对此漠不关心的现象，“有些人认为，不应该把散热片的款式改得那么花哨，这就好比门窗不应该轻易改装一样。或许正是出于这个原因，有些国家的暖气市场并不繁荣。”
Karim Rashid, the New York-based industrial designer, also believes that radiators occupy a zone of overlooked utilitarian objects — first cousins of wall outlets and light switches. Because we have such low expectations, Mr. Rashid was able to make a sensation with “Totally Rad,” a 2009 exhibition of avant-garde radiators he curated at the Museum of Arts and Design in Manhattan. Here were radiators that doubled as mirrors or were combined with planters or looked like silvery grasses swaying in the wind. (A couple of his own designs for European companies were on display as well, including a reconfigurable row of blobs and textured monochromatic panels.)
纽约的工业设计师卡里姆·拉希德(Karim Rashid)也认为，暖气和壁装插座及照明开关这些“难兄难弟”一样，同属被忽视的实用物件中的一员。由于我们对这种物品的期望值太低，拉希德于2009年举办的一场名为“简直酷毙了”(Totally Rad)的展览引起了轰动。展场设在曼哈顿的艺术与设计博物馆(Museum of Arts and Design)，展出的全是设计前卫的散热片。它们有的被分成两部分，就像两面镜子；有的与种植机安装在一起；有的像随风飘扬的、泛着银色光芒的青草。（拉希德本人为几家欧洲公司设计的作品也在展品之列，包括一排可重新组装的水滴状装置，和带有纹理的单色面板。）
But four years after trotting out all those examples of a radical leap forward, Mr. Rashid conceded that not much progress has been made. “The people who are doing the most adventurous things come from places like Italy, where there are small companies that support them,” he said. Cheeky, arty style comes at a price for necessities like hand fabrication. And even in Europe, the audience is narrow.
不过，在前卫设计的道路上努力了四年之后，拉希德承认，暖气设计领域的现状并无多少改观。“最敢于尝试的人通常来自意大利这样的地方，他们有众多小公司的支持。”他说。讽刺的是，附庸风雅往往要付出一定的代价，比如必须手工制造。而即使是在欧洲，买账的人也很少。
For American radiators to become more interesting, “the mass-market companies need to get in the game,” he added. “And they’re not getting close.”
要想让美国的散热片款式更加有趣，“着眼于大众市场的公司必须参与进来，”他补充道，“而他们现在连边都不沾。”
Mr. Rashid echoed legions of designers on the subject of countless other objects, in lamenting that a push by American companies to grab the biggest market share leaves a relatively small but still healthy number of consumers adrift in a sea of blandness. If you can’t stand the banality, you can import your own Michelangelo-inspired torso from overseas, but it will cost you.
在这个问题上，拉希德与为数众多的其它领域的设计师都深有同感。他们在抱怨，美国公司为了抓住最大的市场份额，使一部分人数相对较少但仍很可观的消费者群体，不得不随波逐流，去接受那些千篇一律的款式。如果你受不了产品款式的单调，那就得自行从国外购买新潮产品，只不过，这样就得花掉一大笔钱了。
Or you can experience innovative design vicariously. That is why we have shelter magazines and HGTV, and why interior designers like David Carter of London have wealthy clients.
又或者，你可以对创新设计过过眼瘾。正因如此，我们才会有家居杂志和家居电视频道HGTV；也正因此，像伦敦的戴维·卡特(David Carter)这样的室内设计师才拥有富豪级的客户。
Mr. Carter loves the Heatwave radiator, a meltingly beautiful baroque flourish that woke up a lot of bored design critics when Joris Laarman of the Netherlands introduced it in 2003. But it costs between $5,000 and $14,000.
卡特钟爱“热浪”(Heatwave)散热片，它的设计美轮美奂，具有巴洛克式的浮华风格。2003年，荷兰的乔瑞斯·拉曼(Joris Laarman)将它设计出来时，许多审美疲劳的设计评论家都倏然为之一振。不过，这种散热片的价格高达5000至14000美元（约合人民币30451至85262元）。
“At some point, I’ll use some of the lovely, mad Heatwave radiators, because that’s taking the idea of radiators being a piece of sculpture to a completely different level,” Mr. Carter said. “I’d like to have some of those floating across the room, like clouds.”
“在某些情况下，我会使用一些精美而又前卫的‘热浪’散热片，这样做是为了，把散热片作为雕塑的理念提升到一个全新的阶段，”卡特说，“我想置办几台，让它们像云一样漂浮在房中。”
In his own home?
在自家的房中？
“Absolutely not,” he said. “I can’t afford it.”
“当然不是，”他说，“我可买不起。”