In the wake of the terrible shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., national attention has turned again to the complex links between violence, mental illness and gun control.
康涅狄格州纽敦一所小学发生可怕的枪击事件之后，美国全国的注意力再一次转向暴力、精神疾病与枪支管控的复杂联系上。
The gunman, Adam Lanza, 20, has been described as a loner who was intelligent and socially awkward. And while no official diagnosis has been made public, armchair diagnosticians have been quick to assert that keeping guns from getting into the hands of people with mental illness would help solve the problem of gun homicides.
据称，20岁的枪手亚当·兰扎(Adam Lanza)是一个孤独的人，他很聪明，但在社交上却显得很笨拙。尽管目前尚未公布任何正式的诊断，但妄加诊断的人却迅速断言，防止枪支落入精神疾病患者手中，将有助于解决枪杀问题。
Arguing against stricter gun-control measures, Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan and a former F.B.I. agent, said, “What the more realistic discussion is, ‘How do we target people with mental illness who use firearms?’ ”
在反对采取更严格的措施管控枪支的论述中，前FBI探员、密歇根州共和党人、众议员麦克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)说，“一个更加实际的问题是，‘我们该如何找出那些患有精神疾病的枪支使用者呢？’”
Robert A. Levy, chairman of the Cato Institute, told The New York Times: “To reduce the risk of multivictim violence, we would be better advised to focus on early detection and treatment of mental illness.”
加图研究所(Cato Institute)所长罗伯特·A·利维(Robert A. Levy)告诉《纽约时报》：“为了减少发生多人受害的暴力事件的风险，更明智的做法是将注意力集中在对精神疾病的早期发现和治疗上。”
But there is overwhelming epidemiological evidence that the vast majority of people with psychiatric disorders do not commit violent acts. Only about 4 percent of violence in the United States can be attributed to people with mental illness.
但是有压倒性的流行病学证据表明，绝大多数的精神障碍患者没有从事暴力行为。在美国，仅有4%的暴力事件可以归咎于精神病患者。
This does not mean that mental illness is not a risk factor for violence. It is, but the risk is actually small. Only certain serious psychiatric illnesses are linked to an increased risk of violence.
这并不是说，精神疾病不是暴力事件的风险因素。它确实是一种风险因素，但实际上，这种风险很小。只有几种特定的严重精神疾病与暴力风险的提高相关。
One of the largest studies, the National Institute of Mental Health’s Epidemiologic Catchment Area study, which followed nearly 18,000 subjects, found that the lifetime prevalence of violence among people with serious mental illness — like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder — was 16 percent, compared with 7 percent among people without any mental disorder. Anxiety disorders, in contrast, do not seem to increase the risk at all.
美国国家精神健康研究院(National Institute of Mental Health)的流行病学责任区项目（Epidemiological Catchment Area，简称ECA）是规模最大的研究项目之一。该项目追踪了近1.8万个研究对象，结果发现，在患有精神分裂症和躁郁症等严重精神疾病的患者里，一生中暴力行为的发生率为16%。与此相比，不患任何精神疾病的人群中，该比例是7%。相比之下，焦虑症看来完全没有提高这种风险。
Alcohol and drug abuse are far more likely to result in violent behavior than mental illness by itself. In the National Institute of Mental Health’s E.C.A. study, for example, people with no mental disorder who abused alcohol or drugs were nearly seven times as likely as those without substance abuse to commit violent acts.
酒精或药物滥用各自导致暴力行为的可能性，远远超过精神疾病。例如，根据国家精神健康研究院ECA项目的研究，没有精神障碍的人在滥用酒精或药物之后，其从事暴力行为的可能性几乎是没有滥用行为者的七倍之高。
It’s possible that preventing people with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other serious mental illnesses from getting guns might decrease the risk of mass killings. Even the Supreme Court, which in 2008 strongly affirmed a broad right to bear arms, at the same time endorsed prohibitions on gun ownership “by felons and the mentally ill.”
对于患有精神分裂症、躁郁症和其他严重精神疾病的患者，通过防止他们获得枪支而减少大规模杀伤事件的风险是有可能的。即便是最高法院，在2008年有力支持携带武器的广泛权利的同时，也赞同禁止“重罪犯和精神疾病患者”拥有枪支。
But mass killings are very rare events, and because people with mentally illness contribute so little to overall violence, these measures would have little impact on everyday firearm-related killings. Consider that between 2001 and 2010, there were nearly 120,000 gun-related homicides, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. Few were perpetrated by people with mental illness.
但大规模杀伤事件是非常稀少的，而且因为精神疾病患者在全部暴力事件中占比非常小，这些举措对于平常发生的枪杀事件不会有什么影响。根据国家卫生统计数据中心(National Center for Health Statistics)的数据，2001年到2010年间，曾发生了近12万起持枪杀人案。其中只有极少数是由精神疾病患者所为。
Perhaps more significant, we are not very good at predicting who is likely to be dangerous in the future. According to Dr. Michael Stone, professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia and an expert on mass murderers, “Most of these killers are young men who are not floridly psychotic. They tend to be paranoid loners who hold a grudge and are full of rage.”
或许更加重要的是，我们不太善长预测，谁可能会在未来造成危险。哥伦比亚大学临床精神病学教授，研究大规模杀人犯的专家迈克尔·斯通博士(Michael Stone)说，“这类杀手大多数是并未显露出完全典型的精神病症状的青年男性。他们通常是些偏执的孤独者，心怀怨恨且满腔愤怒。”
Even though we know from large-scale epidemiologic studies like the E.C.A. study that a young psychotic male who is intoxicated with alcohol and has a history of involuntary commitment is at a high risk of violence, most individuals who fit this profile are harmless.
尽管从ECA这类大规模流行病学研究中，我们得知，一名患有精神病的年轻男性，如果喝醉了酒，并且曾有强制入院的病史，那么会存在高暴力风险，但大多数符合这一特征的精神病患者是无害的。
Jeffery Swanson, a professor of psychiatry at Duke University and a leading expert in the epidemiology of violence, said in an e-mail, “Can we reliably predict violence?  ‘No’ is the short answer. Psychiatrists, using clinical judgment, are not much better than chance at predicting which individual patients will do something violent and which will not.”
杜克大学(Duke University)的精神病学教授杰弗里·斯旺森(Jeffery Swanson)是对暴力事件进行流行病学研究的前沿专家。他在电子邮件中写道，“我们能可靠地预测暴力行为吗？简短的答案是‘不能’。在预测哪个患者会做出暴力行为，哪个不会，依靠临床诊断的精神病学家并不比碰运气强多少。”
It would be even harder to predict a mass shooting, Dr. Swanson said, “You can profile the perpetrators after the fact and you’ll get a description of troubled young men, which also matches the description of thousands of other troubled young men who would never do something like this.”
斯旺森博士说，要预测大规模枪杀事件则更加困难，“你可以在事发后调查犯罪分子的特征，并获得关于问题青年的特征描述，但这种描述也符合成千上万的其他问题青年，但后者永远不会做出这种行为。”
Even if clinicians could predict violence perfectly, keeping guns from people with mental illness is easier said than done. Nearly five years after Congress enacted the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, only about half of the states have submitted more than a tiny proportion of their mental health records.
即使临床医生们能准确无误地预测出暴力行为，让枪支远离精神病患者也是说起来容易做起来难。在国会启动“全国犯罪背景即时调查系统”(National Instant Criminal Background Check System)将近五年后，只有大约一半的州提交了其精神健康记录的很小一部分。
How effective are laws that prohibit people with mental illness from obtaining guns? According to Dr. Swanson’s recent research, these measures may prevent some violent crime. But, he added, “there are a lot of people who are undeterred by these laws.”
禁止精神病患者拥有枪支的法律会有多大效力呢？据斯旺森博士最近的研究，这些措施或许能够阻止一些暴力犯罪。但他又补充道，“还有很多人不会被这些法律吓阻。”
Adam Lanza was prohibited from purchasing a gun, because he was too young. Yet he managed to get his hands on guns — his mother’s — anyway. If we really want to stop young men like him from becoming mass murderers, and prevent the small amount of violence attributable to mental illness, we should invest our resources in better screening for, and treatment of, psychiatric illness in young people.
法律禁止亚当·兰扎购买枪支，因为他还太年轻。但他还是设法获得了枪支，是他母亲的枪。如果我们真的想要阻止像他那样的年轻男性成为杀人狂，并杜绝由精神疾病引发的少量暴力事件，我们应该把我们的资源投入到更好地发现并治疗年轻精神病患者上面。
All the focus on the small number of people with mental illness who are violent serves to make us feel safer by displacing and limiting the threat of violence to a small, well-defined group. But the sad and frightening truth is that the vast majority of homicides are carried out by outwardly normal people in the grip of all too ordinary human aggression to whom we provide nearly unfettered access to deadly force.
对少数暴力精神病患者的大量关注是为了增加我们的安全感，因为这样一来就把暴力的威胁转移和局限到了定义明确的一个小群体上。但令人悲哀和恐惧的事实是，绝大多数的杀人案件，是由表面上正常的人在极其普通的人类攻击情绪驱使下实施的，而我们为这些人提供了几乎不受约束地获取致命武器的途径。