Australia’s remoteness is, for those of us who live there, possibly the greatest thing about it.
澳大利亚地处偏远。对我们这些生活在那里的人来说，这恐怕是它最棒的一点。
We are, in the main, undisturbed. There have been some exceptions; in the Second World War, Japanese planes bombed us in the north, and their midget submarines slunk into Sydney Harbor in the south, sinking a ferry. But generally, we are safe.
我们大部分时候都无人打扰。当然也有过一些例外：第二次世界大战期间，日本战机轰炸了北部地区，他们的几艘小型潜艇还悄悄地开进了南面的悉尼港，击沉了一艘渡轮。不过大体而言，我们安全得很。
This is the way we like it. (Even if we had a rather awkward debate about whether a former prime minister actually called us “the arse end of the world.”) The author Bill Bryson probably spoke for a lot of Americans when he wrote, “Australia is mostly empty and a long way away. Its population is small and its role in the world consequently peripheral.” It is “stable and peaceful and good. It doesn’t need watching, and so we don’t.”
我们就喜欢这样。（虽说我们掀起过一场相当难堪的论战，话题是某位前总理是否真的说过我们是“世界之腚”。）作家比尔·布赖森(Bill Bryson)的文字很可能表达了许多美国人的心声：“澳大利亚基本上空落落的，又隔着十万八千里。那里人口稀少，因而在世界上也是处于边缘地带的角色。它和平稳定也很良好，不需要什么关注，所以我们也就不关注了。”
Until now. For 16 excruciating hours this week, we all watched anxiously as a 50-year-old Iranian refugee, Man Haron Monis, held 17 people hostage in a Lindt cafe in Sydney’s central business district. The hostages held hands up against the window, pinning up a black flag with white Arabic writing on it. The city grew still as office buildings were evacuated and workers piled into ferries under an incongruously peaceful blue sky.
直到这一次。这周16个难熬的小时里，我们全都焦灼不安地关注着50岁的伊朗难民曼·哈伦·莫尼斯(Man Haron Monis)在悉尼中央商务区的一家林特咖啡馆(Lindt)里劫持17名人质的事件。人质被按在窗前，手持一面黑旗，上有白色的阿拉伯文字。在不合时宜的祥和蓝天之下，办公楼疏散，员工们涌向渡轮，整座城市陷入停顿。
Three people died, including the hostage taker, after the police saw a flash of gunfire and stormed the cafe. The other two were a 38-year-old mother of three and the cafe’s 34-year-old manager.
警察看到一道枪械的火光之后，冲进了咖啡馆。三人死亡，包括劫持者本人。遇难者中，一个是育有三名子女的38岁女性，另一个是34岁的咖啡店经理。
There are many questions as to how multiple warnings about Mr. Monis were ignored. How was someone charged with being an accessory to the murder of his 30-year-old ex-wife allowed out on bail — not once, but three times in the last year?
对于莫尼斯身上的诸多危险信号为何遭到了忽视，人们有很多的疑问。他被控协助他人谋杀自己30岁的前妻，怎么会被允许假释？而且不是一次，是去年有过三次。
And why was he not on a terror watch list? Even the prime minister, Tony Abbott, was baffled by this. Mr. Monis had sent hateful “condolence” letters to the families of soldiers killed in Afghanistan between 2007 and 2009. After he was charged with sending these “grossly offensive” letters by mail, he declared that he would in the future deliver them by hand. He managed to escape a two-year jail sentence and was given 300 hours of community service instead, but he appealed. Just three days before he staged the siege, his appeal to have this conviction overturned was rejected. When he left court he told reporters, “This pen is my gun, and these words are my bullets. I’ll fight with these weapons against oppression to promote peace.” Until he got real bullets.
为什么他没被列入恐怖嫌疑人的监控名单？就连总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)也对此困惑不已。2007年到2009年间，莫尼斯向死于阿富汗战场的军人家属寄去了充满仇恨的“慰问”函。当被控通过邮政系统发出这些“极为无礼的”信件后，他宣布今后会将它们亲手递出。他成功地逃脱了两年的刑期，仅被判了300小时的社区服务，却还上诉了。就在他进行这次袭击的三天前，他提出的撤销此次判决的申诉被驳回。当他离开法院的时候，对记者说，“我手中的笔是我的枪，我口中的话是我的子弹。我将用这些武器来反抗压迫，倡导和平。”结果他搞到了真的子弹。
When will we take violence against women more seriously? This man had a long record of vicious harassment of his wife before being implicated in her brutal death. He had been charged with more than 40 allegations of indecent and sexual assault from seven women who had come to see him in Sydney when he had purported to be a “spiritual healer” with black magic powers. The most recent charges were made in October.
我们什么时候能把针对女性的暴力更当回事？记录显示，莫尼斯长期恶意骚扰前妻，最终卷入了她被残忍杀害的案子。他曾经被控40余次，涉嫌猥亵及性侵犯七名前去悉尼找他的女性——因为他标榜自己是拥有黑魔法的“精神治疗师”。最近的一次指控就发生在今年10月。
Finally, how did he manage to get a gun when we have such stringent gun laws?
最后一个问题是，我们有如此严格的枪支管理法，他又是怎样弄到枪的呢？
While the alarm from this “lone wolf” attack will lead some to argue that we need more laws to expand surveillance and security, the laws already in place should have been sufficient to alert the police to the danger he posed.
尽管这次的“独狼”袭击事件拉响的警报会让一些人提出，我们需要更多的法律来扩大监控范围、提高安保力度，但是，已经生效的法律本应足以让警方对他构成的威胁予以警惕。
The measures the government is introducing to counter the heightened terrorist threat posed by the Islamic State — surveillance and foreign-fighter laws, including a clause that could put journalists in jail for up to 10 years for disclosing information on special intelligence operations — would not have looped Mr. Monis further into any net. Authorities already could have legally monitored his phone and Internet activity.
政府准备引入的立法意在应对伊斯兰国(Islamic State)带来的加大的恐怖主义威胁，涉及监控及外国武装分子方面的法规，其中的一个条款允许将披露特种情报行动信息的记者监禁起来，最长可达10年。然而，这些立法并不会让莫尼斯变得更容易落网。当局本已能够合法监控他的电话通讯和网络活动。
Possibly worst of all, the greatest message might be that there is none. A mentally ill, angry or paranoid man might simply have used the words Islamic State as a crude vessel for his morphing identity, and fundamentalist violence as a vehicle for his own multifaceted hatred. Australian Muslims, both Shiite and Sunni, had disowned him repeatedly. He did not have an Islamic State flag in his possession; he asked for the police to deliver one as part of his (unmet) conditions.
或许最糟糕的是，此事最大的寓意大概是并没有什么寓意。这名愤怒或偏执的精神异常男性，可能不过是利用伊斯兰国的话语来凑合着承载他日益扭曲的身份认同感，借由原教旨主义的声音来发泄自己多方面的仇恨情绪。澳大利亚的穆斯林，无论是什叶派，还是逊尼派，均在多个场合与莫尼斯划清界线。他当时手上并没有伊斯兰国的旗帜，他对警方的条件之一是让他们给他送一面伊斯兰国的旗子（这个要求没被满足）。
As the prime minister said, this was one disturbed man carrying out a “sick fantasy.”
正如总理所说，这是一个心理失常的人在实现他“病态幻想”。
Perhaps the most heartening part of the Australian response was the enormous wave of concern that arose expressing fear that the siege would result in aggressive behavior toward Muslims.
在澳大利亚人对此事的回应中，最令人振奋的或许是，有如潮的关切涌现出来，表达了对此次袭击会导致针对穆斯林的挑衅行为的担忧。