The volume rattles the bones. The gyrations evoke scenes of lustful abandon. In some of funk’s most explicit forms, tracks sprinkled with the prerecorded sounds of machine-gun fire exalt the drug gangs still in control of some of Rio de Janeiro’s favelas. On certain nights, the bass from the amps resonates from the hillside slums into the bastions of the privileged classes, as if to remind them: Rio doesn’t belong just to you.
巨大的音量震得人快要散架。音乐剧烈的起伏带来情色而放纵的场面。在放克(funk)音乐最直接的一些形式之中，音乐里事先录好的音效如同贩毒黑帮的机关枪一样扫射，这样的黑帮至今还控制着里约热内卢的若干贫民区。在某些夜晚，山坡贫民窟的音响里抛出的重低音也会侵入特权阶级的堡垒，仿佛在提醒他们：里约不仅仅是属于你们的。
Funk’s varied repertory provides an apt soundtrack for the changes sweeping across the city after the recent boom that lifted incomes and ushered in the era of megaevents like this month’s World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics, while also accentuating longstanding inequality. Samba, forbidden by the authorities about a century ago in much the same way that varieties of funk are prohibited today, has developed into such an establishment fixture that big corporations now underwrite carnival compositions. Bossa nova, the breezy fusion of samba and jazz, seems just too genteel for these times. But funk — often aggressive, sensual, vulgar, narcissistic, anti-establishment and eminently adaptable to Brazil’s shifting political mood — is thriving.
放克的曲目多种多样，为这个城市的变迁提供了适宜的背景音乐。近年的经济发展带来收入的增加，也带来了超级大型活动的时代，比如本月的世界杯与2016年的夏季奥运会，这使得变化在城市的每个角落发生，同时加剧了长期存在的不平等现象。一个世纪以前，桑巴音乐曾被当局禁止，和如今各种放克乐被禁止的原因大同小异。如今，桑巴已经发展为大公司经办嘉年华会的固定音乐。巴萨诺瓦(bossa nova)音乐温和地融合了桑巴和爵士乐，对于这个时代似乎过于文雅。而如今兴盛的放克乐通常好斗、放荡、粗野、自恋、反体制，完全适合于巴西变化动荡的政治气氛。
Not to be confused with the kind of American funk popularized by James Brown in the 1960s, Brazilian funk is thought to have crystallized in the 1980s, when favela musicians in Rio drew inspiration from the hip-hop sounds and explicit lyrics of Miami bass. The result was a genre rooted in the lawlessness of the slums. Funk singers were criticized from the start for their hypersexualized, violence-soaked lyrics, but they long defied attempts to tame the genre.
不要把巴西放克和美国放克混为一谈，在美国，放克乐是在20世纪60年代，由詹姆斯·布朗(James Brown)带动流行起来，而巴西放克乐则被认为是在20世纪80年代开始出现，里约的贫民区音乐家们从嘻哈乐和“迈阿密低音”（Miami bass，80-90世纪流行的一个嘻哈乐分支——译注）直白的歌词中获取灵感。产生了一种植根于无法无天的贫民区的音乐形式。放克歌手从一开始就因为淫荡而充满暴力色彩的歌词而备受诟病，但他们一直都在反抗，不让这种音乐被驯服。
Still, funk surrendered some of its edge when the authorities started asserting greater control over favelas about half a decade ago. In a project called pacification, security forces rolled in with tanks to establish police outposts. They cracked down on the “baile funk,” parties that came to be viewed as subversive. The outcome: Practitioners of proibidão, the prohibited funk style that champions drug gangs, were forced to move to unpacified favelas or change their style to “light,” with the watered-down lyrics the term implies.
不过，大约在五年前左右，官方开始对贫民区实施更多控制，放克也失去了一些棱角。在一个被称为“平定”的项目中，安保力量开着坦克车来贫民区建立警察的前哨岗位。他们镇压“放克舞蹈”派对，视参与者为颠覆分子。"proibidão"是一种和贩毒团伙有关的放克乐，在这次行动中遭到禁止，其结果就是他们要么被迫迁移到未遭平定的贫民区去，要么就改变风格，变得“轻”一点儿，唱干净一点的歌词。
Commercially, this shift coincided with broader mainstream acceptance of funk, as performers like MC Koringa found acceptance for their songs on the nightly soap operas. In São Paulo, a brash new variety called funk ostentação (ostentation) has emerged, with singers flaunting wads of cash and imported sports cars. Where did Neymar, the star of Brazil’s national soccer team, go to relax before the World Cup? The Dom Room, a funk club near São Paulo. Reflecting the genre’s elasticity, some in Brazil’s evangelical Christian community decided it was time to join the funk scene rather than criticize it. Thus the subgenre of “gospel funk,” featuring biblical-inspired lyrics.
在商业上，这种改变也迎合了放克乐愈来愈被主流接受的潮流，MC科林加(MC Koringa)等表演者发现他们的歌出现在晚间肥皂剧里。在圣保罗，最新出现了一种自命不凡的变种，叫做“炫耀放克”(funk ostentação)，歌手炫耀自己的大把钞票和进口跑车。巴西足球国家队的明星内马尔在世界杯开始之前会去什么地方放松呢——答案是“多恩屋”(Dom Room)，圣保罗附近的一家放克俱乐部。因为这种音乐具有极大的灵活性，巴西一些福音派基督社区觉得也应该参与到其中去，而不是一味批评它。所以就有了“福音放克”这个亚类别，特点是歌词受圣经启发。
Yet in Rio, funk’s cradle, some of the marginalized proibidão singers persist. Some work in favelas still controlled by gangs, reflecting Rio’s fractious urban peace process. Fewer than 300 of the city’s estimated 1,000 or so favelas are pacified; even in slums now featuring a large police presence, there has been a startling spike in shootings of police officers this year. Around the city, muggings have surged. The homicide rate is also climbing once again in Rio, setting the city on edge just as visitors start arriving for the World Cup.
然而在放克的摇篮里约热内卢，还有一些被边缘化的"proibidão"放克歌手存在。有些在贫民区工作的人仍由黑帮控制，反映出里约激烈的城市和平进程。目前这个城市约有1000个贫民区，只有不到300个被平定下来；就连在有大量警察驻扎的贫民区里，今年也发生了大量射杀警察的事件。在城市周围，拦路抢劫犯罪率上升，杀人犯罪率也在里约进一步上升，在众多为世界杯前来的游客陆续赶来之际，令这座城市变得更加危险。
Amid this tension, new funk stars are emerging, exemplified to a large extent by women like Valesca Popozuda and Anitta. One rising voice in Rio’s clubs is MC Lexa, 19, whose real name is Léa Araújo. She doesn’t come from a favela, pacified or otherwise, but from Jacarepaguá, a sprawling suburban area interspersed with slums. On the cusp of stardom, MC Lexa delayed her civil-engineering studies and has begun performing in cities like Brasília and São Paulo. “Few people have a real chance for a career in funk,” she says. “I need to make this moment count.”
在这种紧张局势之下，放克新星却不断涌现，比如瓦利斯卡·波波祖达(Valesca Popozuda)和安妮塔(Anitta)等女歌手。19岁的MC莱克萨是里约的俱乐部里涌现的新星，她的真名叫利娅·阿罗约(Léa Araújo)。她并非出身被平定或未遭平定的贫民区，而是来自名叫Jacarepaguá的杂乱郊区地带，那里间或点缀着贫民区。明星之路开始后，MC莱克萨推迟了土木工程学业，开始在巴西利亚和圣保罗等城市表演。“做放克乐的人很难获得真正的机会，”她说，“我要好好利用眼前的时刻。”