NEW YORK — A menacing storm that had charted a relentless course across the Midwest — leaving behind more than a foot of snow in some places, along with fender-benders on slippery roads and flight delays at airports — churned into the New York region on Thursday evening, ready to deliver an overnight barrage of heavy snow and high winds.
纽约——一场危险的暴风雪已经无情地席卷了中西部，给一些地方带去了厚达一英尺以上的降雪、湿滑路面上的小事故和机场的航班延误，周四晚上，暴风雪已经抵达纽约地区，打算掀起一场彻夜不停的狂风暴雪。
The storm, a huge whitish smudge on meteorologists’ radar screens that stretched more than 700 miles from Indiana to Long Island, promised to be the first test of New York City’s new mayor, Bill de Blasio. In his last job, as the city’s public advocate, Mr. de Blasio was critical of the response under his predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg, when plows were slow to reach some neighborhoods, particularly in the boroughs outside Manhattan, after a storm in late 2010.
这场暴风雪在气象学家的雷达屏幕上留下了一块巨大的白渍，从印第安纳州到长岛，绵延700多英里（约合1100公里），看起來将是纽约新任市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)面对的第一场考验。此前作为纽约市的公益维护专员，白思豪在2010年底的一场暴风雪后对前任迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的政府应对行动进行过批评，当时某些街区迟迟见不到扫雪机，尤其是曼哈顿以外的几个城区。
On Thursday, less than 24 hours after being sworn in as mayor, Mr. de Blasio met with the sanitation commissioner, John J. Doherty, a temporary holdover from the Bloomberg administration, and declared that the city was “ready for whatever hits us.” Transportation officials ordered subway trains parked indoors for the night, leaving only local trains running on some lines.
周四，宣誓就任市长不到24小时的白思豪和环卫局长约翰·J·多赫蒂(John J. Doherty)会面，并宣称纽约已经“做好应对一切打击的准备”，多赫蒂是暂时留任的上届政府官员。交通部门命令地铁当晚停靠在室内，只有某些线路的区间车仍然开通。
Though officials said there would be no field trips or after-school activities for public school students on Friday, Mr. de Blasio and the new schools chancellor, Carmen Fariña, put off a decision about whether to close city schools until Friday morning. That delayed the answer to a question that school-age friends of Mr. de Blasio’s 16-year-old son, Dante, had been asking on Facebook. “Everyone is asking me this,” Dante wrote on Facebook. “I have no idea Old man winter will decide.” But he said he was trying to “convince my dad.”
官方称公立学校在周五不会安排实地考察或其他课外活动，不过白思豪和新任教育局长卡门·卡利尼亚(Carmen Fariña)将在周五上午才决定要不要让学校停课。白思豪的16岁儿子丹泰(Dante)因此也要迟一些才能回答他的学龄朋友们的问题了。“大家都在问我这个，”丹泰在Facebook上说。“我完全没概念，得让冬老头决定。”但是他也说自己在试图“说服我爸”。
The mayor said at a morning briefing on Thursday that closing the schools was “by definition a game-day decision.” Hours later, he declared: “At this moment, you should assume that schools will be open” on Friday.
在周四上午的一次情况通报会上，市长说学校停课“势必要事到临头才能决定的”。几个小时后他宣布，目前看来可以假定到了周五“学校是要正常上课的”。
The storm’s late-day arrival in New York made Thursday a day of anticipation under a gloomy, gunmetal sky. The storm had swirled and blustered across the Midwest, driving already-cold temperatures even lower. In Embarrass, Minn., the temperature sank to 46 degrees below zero. The temperature in Central Park dropped to 25 degrees at 8 p.m. The forecast called for snow through the night and into the morning on Friday, with five to nine inches expected to pile up in the city and more on Long Island.
在周四阴暗的炮铜色天空下，将在天黑之前到来的暴风雪令人们在一天里严阵以待。暴风雪已经盘旋、咆哮着通过了中西部，令已经很低的气温进一步下降。在明尼苏达州恩巴勒斯，气温跌至零下46华氏度（约合零下43摄氏度）。中央公园的气温在上午8点降到了25华氏度（约合零下4摄氏度）。天气预报称整晚一直到周五上午都会有降雪，市内大概会达到5到9英寸，长岛则更多。
“We have literally all hands on deck,” Mr. de Blasio said. For starters, he urged New Yorkers to stay off the streets so the Sanitation Department would have “the optimal conditions to work.”
“我们已经实打实地全体待命了，”白思豪说。他首先呼吁纽约人不要到街上去，这样可以给环卫部门提供一个“理想的工作环境”。
Officials said that 450 salt spreaders had been out since early Thursday morning and 1,700 sanitation trucks had been outfitted with plows. But Mr. Doherty said that even with all the equipment the city had marshaled, his agency faced a daunting job as it worked to clear the streets through the night. He pleaded for patience.
官方称有450辆除雪车从周四早晨就已经派出，1700辆环卫卡车已经加装了扫雪装置。但是多赫蒂说虽然市政府组织了那么多装备，他的部门还是要面对整夜清扫街道的艰巨任务。他请求大家保持耐心。
“A lot of people expect in New York City to see blacktop all the time,” Mr. Doherty said. “It’s going to take us a while.” He explained that salt, a major weapon in the fight to keep snow from sticking on slippery streets, was less effective in extreme cold.
“很多人希望纽约市的路在任何时候都是没有积雪的，”多赫蒂说。“那得给我们一些时间。”他解释说，除去湿滑路面上的积雪的主要武器——盐，在极端寒冷的环境下效果会打折扣。
The wind that propelled the storm posed another problem, officials said: Blowing snow could cover streets again moments after they were plowed.
推动着暴雪的风构成了另一个问题。官方说：被风扬起的雪会把刚刚扫过雪的街道重新盖上。
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York declared a state of emergency and ordered several major highways shut down from midnight to 5 a.m. on Friday, including the Long Island Expressway and the New York State Thruway south of Albany. He announced similar restrictions for Interstate 84, which runs through Dutchess, Orange and Putnam Counties in the central Hudson Valley. Trucks and other commercial vehicles were banned from I-84 at 5 p.m. Thursday, he said.
纽约州州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)宣布进入紧急状态，命令从午夜开始到周五早上5点关闭多条主要高速公路，包括长岛高速路和阿尔巴尼以南的纽约州高速公路。他还宣布对84号州际公路实施类似的限行，这条路途经哈得逊河谷中央的达奇斯、橙县和普特南诸县。他说将从周四下午5点开始禁止卡车以及其他商用车辆上84号公路。
The governor made plans to shut down the Long Island Expressway overnight, starting at the border between Queens and Nassau County, but the Northern and Southern Parkways remained open. “The parkways don’t have the same vulnerability to blowing snow as the L.I.E.,” he said in a conference call.
州长计划在夜间关闭长岛高速路，从皇后区和纳苏县交界处开始，但是南北大道将保持开放。“这些大道不像长岛高速路那么容易受风雪冲击，”他在一次电话会议上说。
Other state officials said drivers who ventured onto roads that had been ordered closed could face a misdemeanor charge.
还有一些州政府官员说，那些擅闯关闭路段的驾车者可能会受到不当行为的指控。