The chaos in the nation’s air travel system worsened on Monday as freezing temperatures, snow and ice blanketed much of the country, causing airlines to cancel thousands of flights and stranding passengers from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., to Los Angeles.
周一，随着严寒与冰雪席卷全国大部分地区，美国航空体系的糟糕局面进一步恶化，各航空公司不得不取消了数千个航班，导致从佛罗里达州劳德代尔堡到洛杉矶的各地乘客滞留。
The biggest impact was in the Northeast and the Midwest, where polar weather swooped in. Airlines canceled 4,400 flights on Monday, bringing the total to more than 17,000 over the last week, according to FlightStats.com, a flight information website. The delays, during one of the busiest travel periods of the year, marooned thousands of people trying to return home from holiday trips, begin a new school term, or get back to work. Fans of Florida State and Auburn scrambled to find their way to Pasadena, Calif., for college football’s national championship game at the Rose Bowl on Monday night. The disruptions came as new federal regulations giving more rest time for airline pilots began on Jan. 1. While crippling weather was the main cause of the delays, at least one airline, JetBlue Airways, cited the new rules for making a bad situation even worse.
由于受到极地天气侵袭，东北部和中西部地区受影响最为严重。根据航空信息网站FlightStats.com提供的信息，各航空公司周一共取消航班4400个，过去七天被取消的航班总数由此超过了1.7万个。目前正是一年中交通最繁忙的时期，航班延误让数千名度假归来、开始新学期或返回工作岗位的人陷入困境。周一夜间，美国大学橄榄球全国锦标赛在玫瑰碗球场举行，佛罗里达大学队和奥本大学队的球迷都在急切地寻找前往加州帕莎迪那市的方式。1月1日，关于航空公司飞行员应享有更多休息时间的联邦新规开始生效。虽然恶劣的天气是航班延误的主要原因，但至少有一家航空公司认为相关新规使这种糟糕局面雪上加霜，这家公司是捷蓝航空(JetBlue Airways)。
The airline said on Monday that it had suspended all flights in and out of Boston and the three main New York-area airports for 17 hours in anticipation of the latest cold wave in order to get its crew and planes in position for a fresh start on Tuesday.
捷蓝航空周一称，因为新一轮寒流即将来袭，为了让员工和飞机做好周二重新开工的准备，它已经让进出波士顿及纽约地区三个主要机场的所有航班暂停运营17小时。
The delays are expected to continue for days, since airlines now operate on a much tighter schedule, leaving them with little slack, and few spare planes, to rebook passengers on future flights.
航班延误的局面预计还将持续几天，原因是航空公司目前的日程远比平常紧张，几乎没有多余的空间和飞机来让乘客改乘别的航班。
One traveler, Courtney Morrissey, said she was supposed to start a new job on Monday in Denver but has been stuck in Rochester since last Thursday after three different flights she had rebooked were canceled. She is now scheduled to fly on Wednesday.
乘客考特妮·莫里西(Courtney Morrissey)说，她本应该周一在丹佛开始一份新工作，但从上周四起就一直滞留在罗契斯特，先后改定的三个航班都取消了。按照目前的计划，她将于周三起飞。
“I am not holding my breath,” Ms. Morrissey said. “Every time they put me on a new flight now, I expect that to be canceled.”
“我不紧张，”莫里西说，“现在，他们给我安排新航班的时候，我总觉得新安排的航班会取消。”
Widespread cancellations are increasingly common. In 2012, Hurricane Sandy forced airlines to cancel more than 20,000 flights over a four-day period, mostly in the Northeast. But with the hub-and-spoke nature of the modern airline business, and the growing consolidation of the industry, the ripple effects of these touch every corner of the country. JetBlue stopped all service from 5 p.m. Monday to 10 a.m. Tuesday from Logan Airport in Boston and from Kennedy International, La Guardia and Newark Liberty International Airport in the New York area. The airline warned of the effect of new Federal Aviation Administration regulations that require pilots to be given more rest time before and after flights. It also limits the number of hours they report for duty.
大范围取消航班的现象越来越普遍。2012年，飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)在四天的时间里迫使多家航空公司取消了超过2万个航班，其中大部分都在东北部。但是，由于现代航空业务的中心辐射式特点，以及整个行业的不断整合，取消航班的涟漪效应会扩散到全国各地。捷蓝航空(JetBlue)停止了周一下午5点到周二上午10点期间在波士顿的洛根机场(Logan Airport)以及纽约地区的肯尼迪国际机场(Kennedy International Airport)、拉瓜迪亚机场(La Guardia Airport)和纽瓦克自由国际机场(Newark Liberty International Airport)的一切服务。该公司告诫，要注意联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）新规定的影响。新规定要求飞行员在飞行开始前和结束后，享有更多的休息时间，还对飞行员的值日小时数进行了限制。
“In the midst of us repairing those schedules disrupted by this week’s winter storms, we’re facing an additional challenge as new F.A.A. rules went into effect for crew rest,” JetBlue said in a statement. “These rules further impact our ability to operate an already disrupted schedule, causing our pilots to ‘time out’ even sooner. As a result, additional cancellations are likely to occur as we work to reset the operation.”
“本周的冬季暴风雪扰乱了我们对这些计划的调整，FAA关于机组人员休息时间的新规又开始生效，增加了我们面临的挑战，”捷蓝航空在一份声明中说，“这些规定进一步损伤了我们按本已异常的计划运营的能力，导致我们的飞行员更频繁地‘停下来休息’。因此，在我们调整运营时，可能会有更多航班被取消。”
Captain Sean Cassidy, a vice president at the Association of Air Line Pilots, said it was too soon to know what impact, if any, the new rules had on the recent cancellations. Airlines have had nearly two years to review their schedules and operations and plan for the new regulations.
美国民航飞行员协会(Air Line Pilots Association)副主席肖恩·卡西迪(Sean Cassidy)机长说，现在判断新规定对最近航班取消的影响还为时尚早。此前，航空公司有近两年的时间来调整自己的航班计划和运营，为新规定做准备。
“It’s rather unfortunate that the day the new rule change became mandatory happens to coincide with this massive weather system,” Mr. Cassidy said. “It is very difficult to extrapolate.”
“很不巧，新规定生效之日刚好赶上了这场大范围的暴风雪，”卡西迪说，“谁能想得到呢。”