Days after a blockbuster video emerged capturing Donald Trump, then a reality television host, making vulgar remarks about aggressively kissing and groping women, a question was still reverberating around media and political circles:
在几天前曝出的一段重磅视频中，当时还是真人秀电视节目主持人的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)用粗俗语言谈论了侵犯性地亲吻和抚摸女性的经历。关于视频的一个问题，至今仍在媒体界和政界回响：
Why was NBC not the first to report its own story?
NBC为什么不是第一个报道这个属于它的故事的？
The footage of Trump came from a 2005 segment for “Access Hollywood,” the syndicated entertainment program owned by NBCUniversal. The video was discovered last Monday by an “Access Hollywood” producer, and Andrew Lack, chairman of NBC News, learned of the tape’s existence the next day, according to two people briefed on internal network discussions.
出现特朗普的镜头来自2005年的一段娱乐节目《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)。该节目为NBC环球公司(NBCUniversal)所有，被卖给了多家平台。据两名了解内部讨论的人士称，视频是《走进好莱坞》的一位制片人上周一发现的，NBC新闻(NBC News)的董事长安德鲁·拉克(Andrew Lack)第二天便得知存在这样一盘磁带。
Yet on Friday afternoon, it was The Washington Post that posted the video to its website.
但周五下午，是《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)将视频发布在了自己的网站上。
The delay stemmed from a combination of factors, including a legal review, intranet work fiefs and the slow-turning wheels of a sprawling corporate infrastructure, according to several people familiar with the process, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the internal discussions.
据多名熟悉相关程序的人士介绍，这种延迟是自多种因素共同作用的结果，包括法律审查、内部分工和庞大的公司基础设施造成的效率低下。因为内部讨论的敏感性，他们要求不具名。
The Post reporter who obtained the tape, David Fahrenthold, received a copy late Friday morning. When NBC’s news division learned that The Post was working on the story, it moved quickly: Within about 10 minutes of the Post’s publishing its version, NBC News correspondent Katy Tur went on MSNBC with a story about the video, showing the footage.
《华盛顿邮报》的记者戴维·法伦特霍尔德(David Fahrenthold)是在周五快中午时收到备份带的。得知《华盛顿邮报》正在报道此事后，NBC的新闻部门迅速行动：在《华盛顿邮报》的报道出来大约10分钟不到，NBC新闻的记者凯蒂·图尔(Katy Tur)便在MSNBC上发布了一篇有关该视频的报道，并公布了相关镜头。
On Saturday, NBC officials said that they had acted responsibly in vetting the Trump video and that a three-day delay was a short amount of time to prepare a story of such magnitude and sensitivity.
周六当天，NBC高层表示，他们审查涉及特朗普的视频的行为是负责任的，并称对准备这么重大、这么敏感的一篇报道来说，延迟三天属于较短的时间。
Interviews show that NBC lawyers, erring on the side of caution, examined whether the network could be vulnerable to a lawsuit for airing the recording, and discussed whether it was ethical to use live-microphone audio from a private moment with Trump — who was inside a van, off-camera — that was not intended to be broadcast.
采访显示，NBC的律师行事谨慎，对广播公司是否会因为播出相关内容而惹上官司进行了研究，并对使用这段素材是否合乎道德进行了讨论。素材是现场麦克风录到的特朗普在私下里说的话——当时在一辆厢式车里，没有拍摄画面——并不打算用于播出。
Executives at NBC’s news division, meanwhile, deferred to their corporate cousins at “Access Hollywood,” giving them first crack at airing the footage that was theirs — even as the entertainment show, unaccustomed to stories of such gravity, took its time.
与此同时，NBC新闻部门的高管遵从《走进好莱坞》同事的意愿，让后者有机会最先播出自己的素材，尽管该娱乐节目还不习惯这么重大的新闻，行动迟缓。