The iPad Air is noticeably lighter than its predecessors.
与前代产品相比，iPad Air明显要轻一些。
If you are the least bit interested in the new tablet computer from Apple, you probably already know that. The company’s engineers shaved just short of a third off the weight of the earlier version; the 9.7-inch Air weighs only a pound.
如果你对苹果(Apple)的新平板电脑稍感兴趣，你可能已经知道了这一点。苹果公司的工程师将旧版iPad的重量减少了将近三分之一，拥有9.7英寸屏幕的iPad Air只有一磅（约合454克）重。
What you may not know is this: Those 6.4 ounces make all the difference when, as you recline while reading or watching a movie, you conk out and the iPad falls forward to bonk you on the nose. The Air won’t hurt you the way the old iPad did.
你可能不知道的是：当你躺着阅读或看电影，不小心致使iPad砸到鼻子上时，这6.4盎司（约合181克）的差距就能发挥重大作用。
The weight reduction and a 20 percent slimmer profile provide other benefits, too. My messenger bag strap didn’t dig into my shoulder as deeply when my iPad was in it. My hand didn’t cramp up while grasping the iPad Air for an hour while watching movies or playing games.
重量减轻，机身也薄了20%，这样的外观还带来了其他好处。当我的邮差包里装着iPad时候，包带不会深深地勒进肩膀里。在一个小时的时间里拿着iPad Air看电影或玩游戏的时候，手也不会抽筋。
But is Nose Bonking Reduction enough to justify buying a new iPad if you already own one of the 170 million iPads that have been sold over the last three and a half years? And if you have never bought a tablet computer, is this the one that persuades you to fling your laptop aside like crutches at a faith healing and embrace a new era?
但如果你已经有了一台iPad，撞疼鼻子的几率的降低能足以证明，购买新iPad是值得的吗？在过去三年半的时间里，苹果共销售了1.7亿台iPad。如果你从没买过平板电脑，这是那款能够说服你毅然决然地抛弃笔记本电脑，去迎接一个新时代的产品吗？
When the iPad Air goes on sale on Friday morning around the globe, it will face its toughest competition yet — from Samsung’s Galaxy Note 10.1, Microsoft’s Surface 2 and Amazon’s Kindle Fire HDX. Google has a new Nexus tablet in the wings.
iPad Air将于周五上午开始在全球销售，它将面临一场最艰难的竞争——与三星(Samsung)的Galaxy Note 10.1、微软(Microsoft)的Surface 2及亚马逊(Amazon)的Kindle Fire HDX展开竞争。谷歌(Google)也正准备推出新一代Nexus平板电脑。
The iPad Air will also compete against its little brother, the iPad Mini. Later in November, Apple will begin selling a new version of that tablet, which comes with a high-resolution 7.9-inch Retina screen and the same faster processor found in both the Air and the new line of iPhones.
iPad Air还要与它的小兄弟iPad Mini竞争。苹果将于11月晚些时候开始出售新版iPad Mini。这款产品拥有7.9英寸的Retina显示屏和更快的处理器，iPad Air和新款iPhone也配置了这种处理器。
So how does the Air stack up? Compared with the Mini, the question really boils down to size. If all you want to do on a tablet is read books or watch movies, the smaller screen is excellent, and you can save $100 (the cheapest model of the Air costs $500. The new Mini costs $400). But I use the iPad for work, reading documents and occasionally even editing or writing on it. I also use it as a second screen (actually it’s a fourth, but we won’t get into that) on my desk for research on the web. The extra real estate provided by a larger screen matters at the office.
那Air怎么样呢？与Mini相比，区别实际上在于尺寸大小。如果你只想用平板电脑读书或看电影，小屏幕产品是一个非常好的选择，你可以节省100美元（约合609元人民币。Air的起售价为500美元。新版Mini的起售价为400美元）。但我用iPad工作，阅读文件，偶尔还在iPad上编辑或写东西。它还是我桌上的第二个屏幕（实际上是第四个，但我们不需要多说这点），我用它进行网络搜索。更大的屏幕所带来的好处在办公时是有帮助的。
If you decide you need the bigger screen, you will find a lot of benefit in the iPad Air. In addition to being light and slim, it loads apps and web pages quickly — faster than the old iPad, because Apple tailored software to mesh with the custom A7 processor and vice versa.
如果你觉得自己需要大屏幕，你会发现iPad Air有很多好处。除了轻薄，它载入应用程序及网页的速度较快——比旧版iPad快，因为苹果定制了与A7处理器配套的软件，反之亦然。
It easily runs for 10 hours on a charge, just as Apple promises — despite the battery’s smaller size and the increased demands put on it. In my test of pretty heavy use, it downloaded and played three hourlong episodes of “Game of Thrones” and a few hours of music. I scrolled through Twitter and Flipboard, played games and perused the web. That’s almost a typical day for me and my iPad. It will get you through a normal day and then some with no worries.
正如苹果承诺的那样，电池使用时间为10小时——尽管电池变得更小，而相关的需求也在不断增加。我频繁使用iPad进行试验，利用iPad下载并播放了三集《权利的游戏》(Games of Thrones)——每集长达一小时，听了几个小时的音乐。我滚动屏幕查看Twitter及Flipboard，玩游戏，细读网页。对于我和我的iPad来说，这几乎是比较典型的一天。它足够你度过平常的一天或更久，不必担心电量不足。
The iPad Air also sports two antennas to pull in Wi-Fi signals faster than the old one did. Called MIMO for multiple-input and multiple-output, these antennas make a noticeable difference when your fast Wi-Fi signal is weakest, like in a back bedroom or the basement. (You’ll have to have a recent MIMO compatible router to see the magic, though.)
iPad Air还搭配了两根天线，Wi-Fi信号的接入速度比旧版iPad快。当稳定的Wi-Fi信号变得非常微弱的时候，比如在靠后的卧室或地下室的时候，支持双天线的多输入多输出技术(MIMO)会带来明显不同的体验。（不过，你需要有一个最新的MIMO兼容路由器才能看到奇迹。）
But do you need to plunk down $500 or more for an Air if you already have an earlier version of the iPad? Notice I used the word “need.” Even though I love shiny new objects, I really can’t tell you to replace your old iPad; the improvements on the new one are incremental, not revolutionary.
但如果你已经有了一个旧版iPad，你还需要花500美元或更多钱购买Air吗？请注意，我使用的是“需要”这个词。虽然我很喜欢闪亮的新东西，我真的不能让你去更换你的旧版iPad，新版iPad的改进是渐进式的，而不是革命性的。
If you’ve never had a tablet, though, the answer is different. A tablet, especially this iPad, is a delight to use and will bring you more hours of enjoyment than any other electronic device I know of.
但如果你没有平板电脑，答案就不一样了。一个平板电脑，特别是这款iPad，非常之好用，会带来更多的享乐时间，超过我所知道的其他任何电子设备。
Apple sells the devices in two colors — black and white. The company, though, calls them Space Gray and Silver because that’s the color on the back of the tablet. (What can I say? It’s a quirky company.) It also sells covers in six colors for $40 and cases, also in six colors, for $80. You can assume stores will soon be stuffed full of covers and cases of various materials and designs from many vendors to fit the new specs of this version.
苹果为这款设备准备了两种颜色——黑色和白色。不过公司根据平板背面的颜色称其为“深空灰”和“银”色。（有什么办法，这个公司就是怪怪的。）此外它还出售一种40美元的保护套，有六种颜色，还有一种是80美元，也有六种颜色。可以想象商店里很快会摆满各种材质和款式的保护套和保护盖，由众多商家专为新版定制。
Apple sells the iPad Air in four levels of memory or, as it is better to think about it, storage. The basic Wi-Fi only model costs $500 for 16 gigabytes and steps up $100 for each level: 32 GB, 64 GB and 128 GB. It’s another $130 if you want a device that also works over a cellphone network.
苹果出售四种内存容量配置，或者用更好理解的方式说，存储空间的大小有四个级别。只有Wi-Fi的基本配置款，16GB售价500美元（人民币3588元），每提升一个级别增加100美元：32GB、64GB和128GB。如果你希望能使用手机信号，那么还要再加130美元。
So which model do you want? One bit of advice hasn’t changed from the PC era: Buy as much storage as you can afford. If you were merely an economically rational animal, you would buy the 128-gigabyte model because storage gets cheaper as you buy more. But rational economic animals also have budget limitations.
那么你想要哪个型号呢？从PC时代一直到现在，有条建议始终没变过：存储空间能买得起多少就买多少。如果你只是一只有经济理性的动物，那么你会买128GB的型号，因为存储容量是卖得越多越便宜的。但是经济理性动物也会受预算的限制。
You can certainly save money by getting the Wi-Fi-only model. Public Wi-Fi is nearly ubiquitous these days. Also, the amount of storage matters less in general because you can store so much in the cloud, in Apple’s iCloud or services like Dropbox or Google Drive.
买只有Wi-Fi的型号当然能省下一些钱来。如今公共Wi-Fi接入几乎无处不在。此外，总体而言存储空间大小的重要性也有所下降，因为现在有很多东西可以存在云上，比如苹果的iCloud或Dropbox、Google云端硬盘(Google Drive)之类的服务。
You can also free space on an iPad or iPhone by killing off apps; Apple remembers what you own and lets you download it again free at any time. So you can juggle apps if you skimp on storage; it’s just not very convenient.
你还可以通过删除应用来给iPad或iPhone腾出空间；苹果会记住你拥有哪些应用，你可以随时免费重新下载它们。所以你可以通过调整应用，来节省空间；只是不太方便而已。
Still, you may need more storage than you think. Apps keep getting bigger; Infinity Blade, a popular game, gobbles up nearly one gigabyte. Apple’s operating system also continues to grow. When a digital magazine can easily contain 225 megabytes of data, it doesn’t take long to top off the device. The agony comes when you are binge-viewing and need to download several serial episodes. An hourlong show can be 2.5 gigabytes. If you aren’t binge-viewing, you will be. If you are doing it now, you will be doing more. Plan for that.
不过，你实际需要的空间可能比你想象的要多。应用的体积越来越大了：热门游戏《无尽之剑》(Infinity Blade)会吞掉将近一个GB的空间。苹果的操作系统也在变大。一份数码杂志的大小达到225MB很平常，所以设备一转眼就塞满了。如果你打算一口气下载很多的剧集连着看，那就痛苦了。一个一小时长的剧大小可达2.5GB。如果你没这么连轴看过，将来会的。如果你现在就这么看了，将来会看更多。做好这方面的准备。
Compared with the other tablets on the market, Apple still holds the edge. It might be a tougher call if the competition were significantly cheaper. But the Surface 2 at $450 and the Galaxy Note at $550 aren’t bargains. And they are heavier and lack the wide variety of apps.
和市面上的其他平板比较，苹果还是有优势的。如果竞争对手的价格便宜很多，那选择起来还有些困难。但Surface 2要450美元，Galaxy Note要550美元，不是很划算。它们都更重，也缺少丰富的应用。
Also, their core software isn’t updated as frequently or as thoroughly as that from Apple, which has made it a practice to regularly update its operating system for nearly all its customers so it feels as if you are getting a new tablet or phone when you update.
还有，它们的核心软件更新不像苹果那么频繁，那么全面，后者已经形成了惯例，定期给几乎所有用户更新操作系统，更新之后让你感觉拥有了一台全新的平板或手机。
The 8.9-inch Kindle Fire HDX costs $380 and is a fine device for reading and watching movies, but it shares the same disadvantages as the other iPad rivals.
8.9英寸的Kindle Fire HDX售价380美元，是一台不错的阅读和看电影设备，但和其他iPad竞争对手有一样的缺陷。
Apple upped the ante a bit by giving away six apps to buyers of the iPad Air: iMovie and iPhoto, to manage and edit videos and photos; Pages, to handle documents; Numbers, for spread sheets; Keynote, for presentations; and GarageBand, for creating music. Those are some of the most popular apps in the App Store and worth $45.
苹果还加大了赌注，向购买iPad Air的用户免费提供六款应用：管理和剪辑视频、照片的iMovie和iPhoto；处理文档的Pages；处理表格的Numbers；处理演示文档的Keynote；制作音乐的GarageBand。这些都是在App Store上最热门的一些应用，价值45美元。
While I laud the engineers at Apple for shaving ounces from the iPad without any noticeable sacrifices like battery power or sturdiness, there are a couple of things I wish they would turn their creative minds to.
在将iPad重量减轻了几盎司的情况下，苹果的工程师没有牺牲电池的性能和机体的坚固，这一点令人钦佩，但我还是希望他们能在某些地方多花些心思。
I would like to be able to read the screen in direct sunlight while wearing polarized sunglasses. If ever there was a device made to use outdoors in a park or a beach, this is it. (That’s when I haul out my old black and white E Ink Kindle.) Apple says it is working on it.
我希望能够在阳光直射下戴着偏光太阳镜阅读屏幕上的内容。如果要在公园或海滩这些户外的地方使用一台设备，这是必要的。（这种时候我就会拿出我那台使用黑白色电子墨水的老旧Kindle。）苹果说他们正在往这方面努力。
I would also love to see a customizable keyboard that lets me move the @ and # characters permanently to the most-used keyboard. Sure, there are shortcuts, but even casual users of Twitter and Facebook need those symbols to be more accessible.
我还希望能有一个可定制的键盘，让我把@和#这两个字符永久性地移到最常使用的键盘布局中去。没错，可以用快捷键，但哪怕是Twitter和Facebook的普通用户都会希望将这些符号放在更方便取用的地方。
Oh, and a way to record dreams on an iPad would be supercool.
噢，要是有办法在iPad上记录自己的梦就太棒了。
I am not sure making the iPad Air lighter will be enough to persuade people who have never felt the need to buy one to race to the Apple store. But I bet that even without a beach-reading, dream-catching upgrade, many do.
对于那些从来不觉得需要买iPad的人，我不太确定重量的减轻能否令他们争先恐后跑去苹果店。但是我敢打赌，尽管这次升级没有海滩阅读和捕梦功能，还是有很多人会去买的。