FOR years, it seemed as though only one photograph of Nelson Mandela existed. It showed him with bushy hair, plump cheeks, and a look of serious determination. But it was a black-and-white shot, so grainy it looked ancient — a visual documentation of an era and an individual whose time had long passed.
许多年里，纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)似乎就只有一张照片。照片中的他头发浓密、两颊丰满，神情无比坚定。但这是一张黑白照，粗糙得仿佛来自古老年代，仿佛是对一个逝去已久年代和个人的视觉记录。
In the early 1960s, fed up with the systematic oppression and inhumane treatment of indigenous Africans, Mandela successfully proposed a plan of violent tactics and guerrilla warfare, essentially forming the military wing of the African National Congress. Within a few years, this martial division, aptly named Umkhonto we Sizwe or Spear of the Nation, was discovered and its leadership detained. In 1964 Mandela was found guilty of sabotage, and ordered to serve a life sentence.
在20世纪60年代早期，不愿再忍受对非洲原住民有组织的压迫和非人的对待，曼德拉成功地提出了一个运用暴力战术和游击战的计划，自此形成了非洲人国民大会党(African National Congress)的军事组织。几年后，这支被恰当地称为民族之矛(Umkhonto we Sizwe)的军事组织被发现，其领导人被捕。1964年，法官认定曼德拉密谋推翻政府，判处他无期徒刑。
During his trial, in lieu of testimony, he delivered a speech from the dock. “I have cherished the ideal of a democratic and free society in which all persons live together in harmony and with equal opportunities,” he said. “It is an ideal which I hope to live for and to achieve. But if need be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to die.”
在审理期间，曼德拉在应该做案件陈述的时候，却站在被告席上发表了一番讲话。“在我珍视的理想中，所有人都和谐地生活在一个机会均等的民主自由的社会里，”他说。“这是我希望为之生存并得以实现的理想。但是如果需要的话，它也是一个我准备为之而死的理想。”
I was 5 years old when Nelson Mandela became prisoner number 46664, and was banished to spend the remainder of his years on Robben Island, five square miles of land floating just north of Cape Town. Robben Island had been the site of a colony for lepers, a lunatic asylum and a series of prisons. It was a place of exile, punishment and isolation, a place where people were sent and then forgotten.
当纳尔逊·曼德拉成为第46664号囚徒，被放逐到开普敦以北5平方英里（约合13平方公里）大的罗宾岛度过他的余生时，我只有5岁。罗宾岛曾住着大量的麻疯病人、精神病人，还有好几所监狱。人们被放逐到那里，接受惩罚、被隔离，在那里，人们被送进去，然后被遗忘。
But the haunting image in that photograph did not let us forget. In the 1970s, I was a member of the African Youth Command, an activist group that protested against social and political injustices. We idolized Mandela. We hung posters of that photograph in our dormitory rooms; we printed it on pamphlets. We refused to let Mandela fade into irrelevance; we marched, held demonstrations, staged concerts and boycotts, signed petitions and issued press statements. We did everything we could to decry the evils of apartheid and keep his name on people’s tongues. We even burned effigies of John Vorster, Jimmy Kruger and other proponents of that government-sanctioned white supremacy.
但是那张照片中萦绕不去的形象却让我们不能忘记。在20世纪70年代，我当时是反对社会和政治不公正行为的维权组织非洲青年指挥部(African Youth Command)的成员。我们视曼德拉为偶像。我们将那张照片制成的海报贴在宿舍里；我们把它印在宣传单上。我们拒绝让曼德拉从此销声匿迹；我们游行、进行示威活动、举办音乐会和抵制活动、签署请愿书、向媒体发布声明。我们竭尽所能地抨击种族隔离之恶，让人们不断提起他的名字。我们甚至焚烧了约翰·沃斯特(John Vorster)、吉米·克留格尔(Jimmy Kruger)等人的塑像，因为他们对政府批准的白种优越制大加吹捧。
Freedom on the African continent was a reality for which we were willing to fight. Nevertheless, I think we’d resigned ourselves to the likelihood that Mandela would remain a prisoner until his death, and South Africans would not experience equality until well after our lifetimes. Then on Feb. 11, 1990, the miraculous happened; Mandela was released.
非洲大陆上的自由是我们期望达到并愿意为之战斗的一个目标。但是，我想我们当时已经接受了这样的可能：曼德拉会一直被关在监狱里，直至死去；南非要到我们这一代人死后很久以后才会实现平等。可是在1990年2月11日，奇迹出现了；曼德拉被释放。
The world was spellbound. We wondered what we would do if we were in his shoes. We all waited for an indescribable rage, a call for retribution that any reasonable mind would have understood. Twenty-seven years of his life, gone. Day after day of hard labor in a limestone quarry, chipping away at white rock under a bright and merciless sun — without benefit of protective eyewear — had virtually destroyed his tear ducts and, for years, robbed Mandela even of his ability to cry.
整个世界都将目光转向南非。我们在思考，如果我们是他会怎么做。我们都以为会有一团难以形容的怒火，一声严惩罪犯的呼吁，如果他这么做，任何明理的人都会理解。他生命中的27年就这样消失了。在刺眼、毒辣的太阳下，在没有任何眼部防护的情况下，他在采石场凿磨白色的石头。这样日复一日的苦工几乎毁了他的泪道，很多年里，曼德拉甚至被剥夺了流泪的能力。
Yet, the man insisted on forgiveness. “To go to prison because of your convictions,” he said, “and be prepared to suffer for what you believe in, is something worthwhile. It is an achievement for a man to do his duty on earth irrespective of the consequences.”
然而，他却坚持要宽恕。“为了你的信念而进监狱，”他说，“准备好为你所坚信的受苦，这是值得的。一个人能够不计后果地坚持完成他在世界上的责任，这是一种成就。”
By the time I finally came face to face with Nelson Mandela, he had already been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize and elected president of a land in which he and all other black people had previously been refused suffrage. He had become an icon, not only of hope, but also of the possibility for healing.
等到我终于面对面见到纳尔逊·曼德拉时，他已经被授予了诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)，在一个他和所有的黑人都曾被剥夺选举权的国家里当上了总统。他已经成了一个标志，不止是代表了希望，还象征着治愈的可能。
I was relatively new to politics then, a member of Parliament and minister of communications. It was my first time in Cape Town. I had stayed out late with friends and was waiting to take the lift up to my hotel room. When the doors opened, there was Mandela. I took a step back, and froze. As he exited, Mandela glanced in my direction and nodded. I could not return the gesture. I couldn’t move, not even to blink. I just stood there in awe, thinking: here was the man for whom we had marched, sung and wept; the man from the black-and-white photograph. Here was the man who had created a new moral compass for South Africa and, as a matter of course, the entire continent.
那时，我担任国会议员、通信部长，还算是政坛的新人。那是我第一次去开普敦。当天我和朋友外出玩到很晚，那时正在等电梯回酒店房间。当门打开的时候，曼德拉出现了。我向后退了一步，整个人僵住了。在曼德拉走出电梯的时候，他向我的方向看了一眼，点了点头。我无法对他的示意做出回应。我完全动不了，连眨眼都不行。我只有满怀敬意地站在那里，一边在想：这就是那个我们为之游行、歌唱、哭泣的人；那张黑白照片里的人。这就是那个为南非树立了新的道德坐标的人，作为一种必然结果，他也为整个非洲大陆树立了新的道德坐标。
It is no coincidence that in the years since Mandela’s release so much of Africa has turned toward democracy and the rule of law. His utilization of peace as a vehicle of liberation showed Africa that if we were to move beyond the divisiveness caused by colonization, and the pain of our self-inflicted wounds, compassion and forgiveness must play a role in governance. Countries, like people, must acknowledge the trauma they have experienced, and they must find a way to reconcile, to make what was broken whole again.
自从曼德拉获释，在这些年里，非洲的许多地区都开始向着民主、法治发展，这绝非偶然。他以和平作为解放的载体，这向非洲大陆证明了，如果我们想要走出殖民带来的分裂以及我们自己造成的伤痛，进行国家治理时就必须带有怜悯和宽恕之心。国家和人民都必须承认所经历的创伤，他们必须找到调和的方式，将破碎的恢复成一个整体。
That night, as I watched Mandela walk past me, I understood that his story, the long walk to freedom, was also Africa’s story. The indignation that once permeated our continent has been replaced by inspiration. The undercurrent of pessimism resulting from the onslaught of maladies — wars, coups, disease, poverty and oppression — has given way to a steadily increasing sense of possibility.
那一个晚上，当我目视着曼德拉走过我的身边，我意识到，他的故事——走向自由的漫长道路——也是非洲的故事。在这个大陆上曾经无所不在的愤怒已经被鼓舞取代。种种弊病——战争、政变、疾病、贫穷、压迫——对我们的打击，那种由此产生的悲观情绪，已经逐渐消失，取而代之的是一种渐渐看到希望的感觉。
It wasn’t just Nelson Mandela who was transformed during those years of his imprisonment. We all were. And Africa is all the better because of that.
在纳尔逊·曼德拉被关押的这些岁月里，被改变的不只是他。我们也一样。也正因为这样，非洲才成了一个更美好的地方。