The South African living for my family was easy. The staff changed the nappies. The houseboys brought the braziers to the right glow for the braai. Two gardeners were employed, one for the roses and one for the rest. When dinner ended the bell was rung, either by hand or by pressure of the foot on a buzzer beneath the carpet. A black servant would appear dressed in a white outfit.
对我们家来说，南非的生活很轻松。有佣人换尿布。男仆会把炭火盆的火调好，准备烤肉。我们雇了两名园丁，一个照料玫瑰，另外一个则打理余下的植物。晚餐结束后，我们或者用手按铃，或者通过脚踩地毯下的蜂鸣器按铃，然后一个穿着白色制服的黑佣便会出现。
My grandfather, Laurie Adler, and his friends donned their whites for Sunday lunch, preceded by a cocktail of “gin and two” (one third gin, one third Cinzano Bianco, one third Cinzano Rosso and “and full to the brim with ice”), before ambling off to play bowls.
周日，我的祖父洛里·阿德勒(Laurie Adler)和朋友们会穿上他们的白色衣服，一起吃午餐，在此之前，他们会喝上一杯“金酒加二”鸡尾酒（三分之一金酒、三分之一仙山露白味美思，还有三分之一仙山露红味美思，还得“加上冰块满满一杯” ），吃过饭，他们就悠闲地走过去玩草地滚球。
At picnics on Table Mountain, a beret on his head, socks pulled up almost to his knee, Laurie would plunge a knife into the pale green watermelons, making a series of incisions before, with a flourish, allowing the succulent fruit to fall open in oozing red bloom. We feasted and left a trail of eggshells and bitten-out watermelon rind.
在桌山野餐时，洛里会戴上贝雷帽，将袜子提到将至膝盖，他会拿着刀插入浅绿色的西瓜，先开几个口子，然后猛一用劲，多汁的西瓜便被打开，红色的汁水渗出来。我们会大吃一顿，留下一长串的蛋壳和咬过的西瓜皮。
And on Robben Island, without watch or clock, Mandela maps time on the wall of his cell.
在罗本岛，在没有任何钟表的情况下，曼德拉(Mandela)在他牢房的墙上画出时间。
A particularity of the apartheid system was that blacks were kept at a distance except in the most intimate of settings, the home. They cooked and cleared away; they washed and darned and dusted; and they coddled white children. After the Shabbat meal on Friday night guests might leave some small token of appreciation on the kitchen counter (“Shame, I don’t have much change”) or slip a few rand into a calloused black hand.
种族隔离制度的一个特点是，黑人被搁在一定距离之外，除了在最亲密的环境——家里。他们做饭、收拾餐桌；他们洗衣、缝补、清扫灰尘；他们看护着白人孩子。周五晚上安息日晚餐后，客人可能会在厨房台子上留下一些钱表示感谢（“真遗憾，我没有太多零钱”）或者偷偷塞几个兰特到一个长了茧子的黑手中。
Elsewhere lay the Africa of the Africans — the natives as they were often called — the distant townships of dust and dirt where water was drawn from a communal spigot, and homes consisted of a single room, and clothes were patched together from scraps of passed-down fabric, and the alleys were full of the stale stench of urine. I could smell the hardship in the sweat of the houseboys and see it in the yellowish tint of their eyes.
而其他地方，便是非洲人的非洲——他们通常被叫做土著——在那些尘土飞扬的偏远城镇，人们共用一个水龙头取水，很多家庭只有一个房间，他们穿着从长辈那里传下来的碎布拼成的衣服，大街小巷中充斥着小便的恶臭。我能从男仆的汗水中嗅出艰苦的味道，也能从他们有点发黄的眼中看到它的样子。
And on Robben Island, Mandela records on a South African Tourism desk calendar the humiliations inflicted by white prison warders.
在罗本岛上，曼德拉在一本南非旅游桌历上记下了他从白人看守那里受到的种种侮辱。
A relative told me his first political memory from the early 1950s was of a great tide of black walkers streaming from Alexandra township — “like the Jews leaving Egypt,” he said, but of course no liberation awaited. The blacks were protesting against a one-penny hike in bus fares. Moenie worry nie, Laurie always insisted — don’t worry. He had been born in South Africa in 1899, my grandmother Flossie in 1900. They should know.
一个亲戚向我讲述了他对于20世纪50年代初最早的政治记忆：潮水般的黑人游行者从亚历山德拉镇涌出——“就像犹太人离开埃及，”他说，但是当然，等待他们的不是革命。黑人们在抗议公交车费涨了一便士。洛里总是说，Moenie worry nie——别担心。他1899年出生在南非，我的祖母弗洛茜(Flossie)则出生于1990年。他们应该明白。
South Africa was as good a place as any for a Jew to live in the 20th century. A friend of the family let slip a sentiment widely felt but seldom articulated: “Thank God for the blacks. If not for them it would be us.” Jews on the whole kept their heads down; better just to keep stumm. Flossie voted for Helen Suzman’s anti-apartheid Progressive Party and then prayed the National Party remained in power. She was not alone in such genteel hypocrisy.
20世纪，南非和任何其他地方一样，都是适合犹太人居住的好地方。我家的一个朋友不小心说出了一个大家普遍感同身受但很少表达的想法：“为了黑人，我们要感谢上帝。如果不是他们，遭殃的肯定是我们。”犹太人整体都很低调；最好什么也不说。弗洛茜为海伦·苏斯曼(Helen Suzman)领导的反种族隔离制度的进步党(Progressive Party)投下选票，但同时又祈祷国民党(National Party)继续执政。有这样贵族式伪善的人不止她一个。
And on Robben Island, Mandela cultivates not hatred — that would be too easy for the whites — but the power of patience and perseverance.
在罗本岛，曼德拉没有积蓄仇恨——这对白人来说太容易了——而是培养出耐心和坚韧的力量。
The blacks were a form of protection. If you are busy persecuting tens of millions of blacks you do not have much time left over for tens of thousands of Jews. For South African Jews, aware of the corpse-filled ditches of the Europe they had fled, the knowledge of the 69 blacks cut down at Sharpeville in 1960 was discomfiting. But this was not genocide, after all. Most, with conspicuous exceptions (more proportionately among Jews than any other white South Africans), looked away.
黑人是一种保护形式。如果你忙于迫害数千万的黑人，你就没有太多时间来对付数以万计的犹太人。对南非的犹太人而言，他们知道自己逃离的欧洲，有遍布尸体的沟渠，因此得知1960年69名黑人在沙佩维尔被杀的消息让他们不安。但毕竟这不是种族屠杀。除了极为个别的一些人（和其他南非白人群体相比，犹太人中有更多这样的例外），大多数人选择视而不见。
Why think of a black man in a cell for his just beliefs when you could gaze at the canopy of purple-blue jacaranda blossom over the avenues of Johannesburg? Everything seemed untroubled, unless you caught a glimpse of ragged black men being herded into police vans. Then a cousin might say, “I suppose they don’t have their passes. Enjoy the swimming pools, next year they will be red with blood.”
在约翰内斯堡的街道上，放眼望去，全是蓝花楹花簇形成的蓝紫色树冠，为什么在可以凝视这些美景时，要去想一个因其正义信仰而入狱的黑人呢？一切看上去安然有序，直到你瞥见穿着破烂的黑人被驱赶到警车里。然后一个表亲可能会说，“我想他们可能没有证件。尽情享受游泳池吧，明年它们就会因鲜血而染成红色。”
And on Robben Island, Mandela learns that not even a life sentence can condemn a man to abandon the mastery of his soul.
在罗本岛，曼德拉发现，即便是无期徒刑，也无法迫使一个人放弃对自己灵魂的主宰。
I have been dreaming of Mandela. An old idea: He who touches one human being touches all humanity. I have been murmuring his name: He broke the cycle of conflict by placing the future above the past, humanity above vengeance.
我一直梦到曼德拉。有这么一个传统的说法：感动一个人，便能感动整个人类。我一直在低声念他的名字：他将未来置于过去之上，将人性置于复仇之上，从而打破了冲突的循环。
He reminded us of what is most precious in Jewish ethics: What is hateful to yourself, do not do to your fellow man — or, as the Mosaic book says many times, you are to treat the stranger well for “you were a stranger in a strange land.” Repair the world. Be a light unto nations.
他让我们想起犹太人最珍视的美德：勿将你所痛恨之事施于你的同胞——或者，正如犹太法典中多次提到的，你应善待陌生人，因为“你在一个陌生的国度就是一个陌生人”。修复这个世界。照亮所有国家。
The truth is we did not deserve him. We could not even imagine him. But, as I learned young in South Africa, the human spirit can avert even inevitable catastrophe.
事实是，我们不配拥有他。我们甚至无法想象会出现一个像他这样的人物。但是，正如我年轻时在南非学到的：人的精神甚至能够阻挡无法避免的灾难。