The global outpouring of respect for Nelson Mandela suggests that we’re not just saying goodbye to the man at his death but that we’re losing a certain kind of leader, unique on the world stage today, and we are mourning that just as much. Mandela had an extraordinary amount of “moral authority.” Why? And how did he get it?
全世界对纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)献上的敬意表明，我们不仅是在曼德拉逝后向他送别，我们同时也失去了某个方面的领袖，这种领袖在当今世界舞台上是独一无二的。我们之所以缅怀，也同样是因为这种痛失。曼德拉身上凝聚了超乎寻常的“道德权威”。原因何在，他是如何获得这种权威的？
Much of the answer can be deduced from one scene in one movie about Mandela that I’ve written about before: “Invictus.” Just to remind, it tells the story of Mandela’s one and only term as president of South Africa, when he enlists the country’s famed rugby team, the Springboks, on a mission to win the 1995 Rugby World Cup and, through that, to start the healing of that apartheid-torn land. Before the games, though, the sports committee in the post-apartheid, newly black-led South Africa tells Mandela that it wants to change the name and colors of the almost all-white Springboks to something more reflective of black African identity. But Mandela refuses. He tells his black sports officials that an essential part of making whites feel at home in a black-led South Africa was not uprooting all their cherished symbols. “That is selfish thinking,” Mandela, played by Morgan Freeman, says in the movie. “It does not serve the nation.” Then speaking of South Africa’s whites, Mandela adds, “We have to surprise them with restraint and generosity.”
讲述曼德拉的一部电影里的一幕可以很大程度上回答这个问题，那就是我以前曾撰文介绍过的《成事在人》(Invictus)。请注意，这部电影讲述的是曼德拉担任南非总统仅有的一届任期，他力邀该国极富盛名的橄榄球队跳羚队(Springboks)，踏上赢得1995年橄榄球世界杯赛(Rugby World Cup)的征程，进而通过胜利，开始弥合种族隔离给这片土地留下的创伤。但是在种族隔离终结后，刚刚由黑人开始领导的南非，体育委员会曾在赛前告诉曼德拉，希望改变几乎全是白人的跳羚队的名称和队服颜色，从而更好地反映南非的非洲黑人特质。然而曼德拉拒绝了。他对黑人体育官员说，要想让白人在黑人领导的南非感觉自在，很重要的一点是不要拿走他们珍视的所有符号。“那是自私的想法，”由摩根·弗里曼(Morgan Freeman)饰演的曼德拉在电影中说。“那样做不利于国家。”之后曼德拉又谈到南非的白人，“我们必须要以克制和慷慨让他们惊讶。”
There are so many big leadership lessons in this short scene. The first is that one way leaders generate moral authority is by being willing to challenge their own base at times — and not just the other side. It is easy to lead by telling your own base what it wants to hear. It is easy to lead when you’re giving things away. It is easy to lead when things are going well. But what’s really difficult is getting your society to do something big and hard and together. And the only way to do that is by not only asking the other side’s base to do something hard — in South Africa’s case, asking whites to cede power to black majority rule — but to challenge your own base to do hard things, too: in South Africa’s case, asking blacks to avoid revenge after so many years of brutal, entrenched, white rule.
这短短的一幕中，体现出了许多重要的领导经验。首先，领袖产生道德权威的一种方式是有意愿不时地挑战自己的支持者，而不只是挑战对手。只向支持者说他们想听的话，当领导会很容易。向人施以恩惠，当领导会很容易。一帆风顺时，当领导也会很容易。真正难能可贵的是号召整个社会齐心协力做一些艰巨的大事。要做到这一点，唯一的办法就是，不仅要求另一方的支持者做艰难的事——就南非而言，就是要求白人放弃权力，让占多数的黑人统治国家——更要让自己一方的支持者也做一些艰难的事：就南非而言，就是要求黑人在经历了白人这么多年根深蒂固的残暴统治后，不要进行报复。
Dov Seidman, whose company, LRN, advises C.E.O.’s on governance and who is the author of the book “How,” argues that another source of Mandela’s moral authority derived from the fact that “he trusted his people with the truth” rather than just telling them what they wanted to hear. “Leaders who trust people with the truth, hard truths, are trusted back,” said Seidman. Leaders who don’t generate anxiety and uncertainty in their followers, who usually deep down know the truth and are not really relieved, at least for long, by having it ignored or disguised.
多夫·塞德曼(Dov Seidman)的公司LRN为公司领导者提供管理方面的咨询，他还著有《怎样》(How)一书。塞德曼认为，曼德拉获得道德权威的另一个来源在于“他信任民众，把真相告诉了他们”，而不仅仅是告诉他们想听的话。“能信任民众，告诉民众真相，包括难以接受的真相，这样的领导者会赢得民众的信任，”塞德曼说。不会让追随者感到焦虑和不确定的领导者通过忽视真相或隐瞒真相来让他们感到宽慰，但追随者往往内心深处知道真相是什么，因而无法长期感到宽慰。
Finally, said Seidman, “Mandela did big things by making himself small.”
塞德曼说，最后，“曼德拉能够做成大事，是因为他把自己的姿态放得很低。”
“Through his uncommon humility and his willingness to trust his people with the truth,” explained Seidman, “Mandela created a hopeful space where enough South Africans trusted each other enough so they could unite and do the hard work of transition together.”
塞德曼解释道，“凭借非凡的谦逊，以及信任民众让他们了解真相的意愿，曼德拉创造了一个充满希望的空间，吸引了足够多的南非人相互之间给予足够多的信任，从而使国家团结起来，共同完成了转变的艰巨任务。”
What is so inspiring about Mandela, explained Seidman, “is that he did not make the moment of South Africa’s transition about himself. It was not about his being in jail for 27 years. It was not about his need for retribution.” It was about seizing a really big moment to go from racism to pluralism without stopping for revenge. “Mandela did not make himself the hope,” added Seidman. “He saw his leadership challenge as inspiring hope in others, so they would do the hard work of reconciliation. It was in that sense that he accomplished big things by making himself smaller than the moment.”
塞德曼解释道，曼德拉之所以鼓舞人心，“原因在于他没有把南非的变革时刻据为己有。变革的意义并不在于他身陷囹圄的27年，也不在于他需要惩罚谁。”变革的意义在于，从种族主义走向多元主义，而且途中并不停下来寻求报复。“曼德拉并没有把自己变成希望之光，”塞德曼说。“在他看来，他担任领袖的挑战在于激发起其他人的希望，这样他们就会去开展艰巨的和解事业。正是从这种意义上讲，曼德拉通过让自己显得比变革更渺小，进而完成了伟大的事业。”
To put it another way, Mandela, and his partner, South African President F.W. de Klerk, got enough of their people to transcend their past rather than to wallow in it. So much of American politics today, noted Seidman, is about “shifting, not elevating, people.” So much of American politics today is about how I narrowcast to this poll-tested demographic in this ZIP code to get just enough voters to shift to my side to give me 50.1 percent — just enough to win office, but not to govern or do anything big and hard. Mandela’s leadership genius was his ability to enlist a critical mass of South Africans to elevate, to go to a new place, not just shift a few votes at the margin.
换句话说，曼德拉和他的伙伴，南非前总统F·W·德克勒克(F.W. de Klerk)鼓动起了足够多的人民，超越了过去而不是纠结于过去。塞德曼提到，今天的美国政治太过关注于“左右民众，而不是提升民众”。今天的美国政治太过注重在某个小区域里，吸引经过民调验证的特定人群，为的只是左右足够多的选民给自己投票，让自己的一方赢得50.1%的选票——刚刚够当选，但并不足以施政，或者做任何艰巨的大事。曼德拉的领导才能在于，他能够凝聚关键数量的南非民众高瞻远瞩、向前迈进，而不仅仅是左右影响票数差额的少数选民。
It is precisely the absence of such leadership in so many countries today that has motivated millions of superempowered individuals in different countries in the last four years — from Iran to Egypt to Tunisia to Turkey to Ukraine — to flock to public squares. What is striking, though, is the fact that none of these “Tahrir Square movements” have built sustainable democratic alternatives yet. That is a big, hard project, and it can only be done together. And it turns out that generating that unity of purpose and focus still requires a leader, but the right kind of leader.
正是因为今天在许多国家缺乏这样的领导人物，过去四年里各个国家才会有成千上万具有巨大力量的个人涌向广场，伊朗、埃及、突尼斯、土耳其、乌克兰莫不如此。然而，令人惊讶的一点是，这些解放广场(Tahrir Square)般的运动，没有任何一个已经建立起了具有可持续性的民主制度。那将是一个宏大艰巨的工程，只能靠齐心协力才能完成。而且事实表明，要想产生如此一致的目标和关注，仍然需要一个领袖，而且需要的是一种与众不同的领袖。
“People are rejecting leaders who rule by the formal authority of their position and command by hierarchical power,” said Seidman, but “they are craving genuine leadership — leaders who lead by their moral authority to inspire, to elevate others and to enlist us in a shared journey.”
“民众正在摒弃那些通过其职务的正式权威进行统治，依靠源自等级制度的权力发号施令的领导人物，”塞德曼说。“他们渴望的是真正的领袖，那些依靠自己的道德权威鼓舞民众、提升民众、凝聚民众，引领他们走上共同道路的领导人物。”