I REMEMBER Nelson Mandela. No, not the universally adored elder statesman who successfully resisted the megalomania that comes with deification, and who died Thursday at age 95, but the young lawyer who used to sit in my parents’ living room until the early hours of the morning, debating African nationalism with my father, Ashby Peter Mda.
我还记得纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)。不，不是那个周四离开人世，享年95岁的广受崇拜的年迈政治家——尽管他被尊为圣人，但却并没有高傲自大——而是那个常常在我父母的起居室里坐到凌晨，和我的父亲阿什比·彼得·穆达(Ashby Peter Mda)讨论非洲民族主义的年轻律师。
In 1944, they were among the leaders who had founded the African National Congress Youth League. These young men considered the African National Congress, which had by then existed for more than three decades, moribund and outmoded. They felt there was a need to take the liberation struggle from protest to armed struggle, and were known to shout down those they felt were “selling out” by participating in apartheid-created structures through which black people were supposed to express their political aspirations.
1944年，他们俩和其他领导人一道创立了非国大青年联盟(African National Congress Youth League)。这些年轻人认为，当时已经有30多年历史的非洲人国民大会党(African National Congress)死气沉沉，无法跟上时代的脚步。他们感到有必要将解放斗争从示威升级为武装斗争，并且高声叫嚷，迫使他们眼中的“叛徒”闭嘴。那些人参与了种族隔离政府建立的政治体系，官方以为那种体制可以成为黑人表达政治诉求的载体。
What struck me, even then, was that Mandela was a man of contradictions. He could be avuncular, especially to us kids, but he was also strict and disciplined. While he was a fire-breathing revolutionary who would quote Marx and Lenin at the drop of a hat, he was also a Xhosa traditionalist with aristocratic tendencies. For instance, Kaiser and George Matanzima, chiefs of the Tembu ethnic group who spearheaded the apartheid “Bantustan” system of separate territories for black South Africans, were not only his relatives but his friends as well. While many thought the Matanzima brothers had betrayed the cause of black liberation, Mandela would not thoroughly denounce them. Perhaps here we could already see the flicker of tolerance to those with opposing views for which he later distinguished himself.
让我印象深刻的是，即便在当时，曼德拉也是一个充满矛盾的人。他可以很慈祥，尤其是对我们这些孩子，但又十分严厉，十分自律。他是一个充满激情的革命者，会不加思索地引用马克思和列宁的名言，同时又是一个带有贵族倾向的科萨族传统主义者。例如，在南非黑人聚居区带头建立“班图斯坦”(Bantustan)种族隔离体系的滕布族(Tembu)部落首领凯撒(Kaiser)和乔治·马坦齐马(George Matanzima)，不但是他的亲属，还是他的朋友。许多人都认为马坦齐马兄弟背叛了黑人的解放事业，但曼德拉却不肯彻底地谴责他们。或许，我们从中已经可以看到他对持相反观点者的包容之心所闪耀的光芒，正是这种包容在日后成就了他的卓尔不群。
It is ironic that in today’s South Africa, there is an increasingly vocal segment of black South Africans who feel that Mandela sold out the liberation struggle to white interests. This will come as a surprise to the international community, which informally canonized him and thinks he enjoyed universal adoration in his country. After he initiated negotiations for the end of apartheid and led South Africa into a new era of freedom with a progressive Constitution that recognizes the rights of everyone (including homosexuals, another admirable contradiction for an African aristocrat), there was, of course, euphoria in the country. But that was a long time ago. With the rampant corruption of the current ruling elite, and the fact that very little has changed for a majority of black people, the euphoria has been replaced with disillusionment.
颇具讽刺意味的是，在今天的南非，认为曼德拉把解放事业出卖给了白人利益集团的南非黑人，正日益掀起舆论的声浪。这恐怕会让私下里把他尊为圣人，以为他在自己的国家受到普遍崇拜的国际社会感到吃惊。他启动了旨在终结种族隔离制度的谈判，并且依靠一部承认每个人权利的进步宪法（包括承认同性恋者的权利，对一位非洲贵族而言，这又是一个令人惊叹的矛盾之处），带领南非走进了一个自由的新时代。其后，这个国家的人当然欢欣鼓舞过。但那已经是很久以前的事了。当前的精英统治阶层之中腐败盛行，大多数黑人的生活几乎没什么改变，这样的现实已经让幻灭感取代了欢心鼓舞。
The new order that Mandela brought about, this argument goes, did not fundamentally change the economic arrangements in the country. It ushered in prosperity, but the distribution of that prosperity was skewed in favor of the white establishment and its dependent new black elite. Today the political apparatchiks are the new billionaires, led by a president — Jacob Zuma — who blatantly used millions of taxpayer dollars to upgrade his private residence to accommodate his expanding harem and a phalanx of children.
这种观点认为，曼德拉所建立的新秩序，未能从根本上改变这个国家的经济格局。它带来了繁荣，但对繁荣成果的分配却是不公正的，白人势力集团及新出现的依附于该集团的黑人精英阶层受到了偏袒。今天的政府官员都是新诞生的亿万富翁，领导他们的总统——雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)——竟然公然使用数百万美元公款整修自己的私人宅邸，以便容纳日益增多的妻妾和子女。
The blame-Mandela movement is not by any means a groundswell, but it is loud enough in its vehemence to warrant attention. It is led by individual activists whose main platforms are Facebook, Twitter and other social media, and in its formal sense by such organizations as the September National Imbizo, which believes that “South Africa is an anti-black white supremacist country managed by the A.N.C. in the interests of white people. Only blacks can liberate themselves.” The claim is that the settlement reached between the A.N.C. and the white apartheid government was a fraud perpetrated on the black people, who have yet to get back the land stolen by whites during colonialism. Mandela’s government, critics say, focused on the cosmetics of reconciliation, while nothing materially changed in the lives of a majority of South Africans.
怪罪曼德拉的运动无论如何还称不上一股风潮，但其响亮的声势已经足以引起关注。这项运动是由单个的活动人士以Facebook、Twitter等社交媒体为主要平台发起的。正式说来，其领导者是“9月全国集会”(September National Imbizo)之类的组织。该组织认为，“南非是由代表白人利益的非国大统治的、奉行白人至上主义的反黑人国家。黑人解放只能靠自己。”他们声称，非国大和推行种族隔离政策的白人政府达成的协议是对黑人的欺骗，黑人还没有收回在殖民时代被白人窃取的土地。批评人士称，曼德拉政府只专注于和解的表象，没能给南非大多数人的生活带来任何实质性的改变。
This movement, though not representative of the majority of black South Africans who still adore Mandela and his A.N.C., is gaining momentum, especially on university campuses.
尽管这项运动并不能代表南非大多数黑人的心声——他们仍然对曼德拉以及他所在的非国大崇拜有加——但其声势正日益壮大，尤其是在大学校园里。
I understand the frustrations of those young South Africans and I share their disillusionment. I, however, do not share their perspective on Mandela. I saw in him a skillful politician whose policy of reconciliation saved the country from a blood bath and ushered it into a period of democracy, human rights and tolerance. I admired him for his compassion and generosity, values that are not usually associated with politicians. I also admired him for his integrity and loyalty.
我理解那些南非年轻人的失望之情，我和他们一样也有幻灭之感。不过，我并不认同他们对曼德拉的看法。我在他身上看到了一个政治家的深谋远虑，他用和解政策把南非从杀戮边缘拯救了出来，并带领这个国家走进了一个彰显民主、人权和包容的时代。我崇敬他，因为他身上有着政治人物常常缺乏的价值观，如同情和包容。我崇敬他也是因为他的正直和忠诚。
But I fear that, for Mandela, loyalty went too far. The corruption that we see today did not just suddenly erupt after his term in office; it took root during his time. He was loyal to his comrades to a fault, and was therefore blind to some of their misdeeds.
但恐怕曼德拉对人的信任一度过了头。我们今天所看到的腐败现象在他执政期间就已经生根发芽了，而不是在他卸任之后突然冒出来的。他过分信任自己的同志，因而对他们的某些劣迹视而不见。
When he was president, I often wrote about the emerging patronage system and crony capitalism. To his credit, when I wrote him a long letter outlining my concerns, he phoned me within a week and arranged a meeting between me and three of his senior cabinet ministers. Although nothing of substance came of the meeting, the very fact that Mandela listened attentively to the complaints of an ordinary citizen, and took them seriously enough to convene such a meeting, was extraordinary for any president.
当他还是总统的时候，我经常撰文揭露新出现的政治分赃制和裙带资本主义现象。我曾给他写了一封长信表达自己的担忧。值得赞扬的是，他在一周之内就给我打了电话，安排我和他的三位资深内阁部长碰面。这次会面并未得取得什么实质性的成果，但曼德拉愿意认真倾听一个普通公民的抱怨，并且对这些抱怨颇为看重，以致于要来安排这样一次会面，这种情况对任何一个总统而言都不常见。
In later years, however, Mandela became the victim of the very corruption I was complaining about. He was surrounded by all sorts of characters, friends and relatives, some of whom were keen to profit from his name. They include his grandson Mandla Mandela, a petty tribal chief who was widely reported to have pre-emptively sold to a television network the broadcast rights to his grandfather’s funeral.
不过，在后来的日子里，曼德拉恰恰成了我所抱怨的腐败问题的牺牲品。他身边围绕着朋友、亲属等各种各样的人物，其中一些人非常热衷于利用他的名声为自己谋取利益。其中就包括他的孙子曼拉·曼德拉(Mandla Mandela)，据媒体广泛报道，这个小小的部落头领把他爷爷葬礼的转播权提前卖给了一家电视台。
Mandela leaves a proud legacy of freedom and human rights, of tolerance and reconciliation. Alas, some of his compatriots are trampling on it. I cannot speak for him and say he was pained by what he saw happening to his country in his last days. I had not spoken with him for years before he died. But I can say that the Mandela I knew would have been pained.
曼德拉留下了值得称道的遗产：自由和人权，包容与和解。可惜的是，他的一些同胞正在践踏这笔遗产。我不能为他代言，说他在最后的日子里，因为看到自己国家里所发生的事情而感到痛苦。在他离世前，我已经有很多年没能与他交谈。但我敢说，我所了解的那个曼德拉是会感到痛苦的。