WASHINGTON — One day after being sentenced to 35 years in prison for leaking vast archives of secret government files to WikiLeaks, Pfc. Bradley Manning said Thursday that he is female and wants to be known as Chelsea.
华盛顿——周四，一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Pfc. Bradley Manning)称自己是一名女性，并表示希望被人叫做切尔西(Chelsea)。一天前，曼宁刚因为向维基解密(WikiLeaks)泄露大量政府保密文件，而被判处35年监禁。
In a statement read on the “Today” show during an appearance by his defense lawyer, David E. Coombs, Private Manning said he had felt that he was female since childhood, a fact that was discussed during his court-martial.
在其律师戴维·E·库姆斯(David E. Coombs)现身《今日秀》(Today)时宣读的一份声明中，曼宁说自己从儿时起就觉得自己是女孩，这一事实曾在军事法庭上讨论过。
“As I transition into this next phase of my life, I want everyone to know the real me,” the statement said. “I am Chelsea Manning. I am a female. Given the way that I feel, and have felt since childhood, I want to begin hormone therapy as soon as possible. I hope that you will support me in this transition.”
“在步入我人生的下一阶段之际，我希望大家能了解真实的我，”该声明说，“我是切尔西·曼宁。我是女性。鉴于我从儿时到现在一直都这么觉得，我希望能尽快开始激素治疗。我希望你们能支持我的这一转变。”
The statement went on to request that Private Manning’s supporters “refer to me by my new name and use the feminine pronoun (except in official mail to the confinement facility).” It was signed, “Chelsea Manning.”
接下来，该声明请求曼宁的支持者“用新名字称呼我，用女性代词指代我（除非是寄给监狱的公务邮件）”。这份声明的署名是切尔西·曼宁。
Mr. Coombs said Private Manning, 25, waited to speak publicly about his gender identity until after sentencing.
库姆斯表示，25岁的曼宁一直等到宣判后才公开谈及自己的性别认同。
Private Manning’s decision to live as a woman raises questions of how the Army prison at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., where he will be held, will respond. A spokeswoman for the prison recently told Courthouse News that the prison does not provide hormone therapy or gender-reassignment surgery. As is the case for all soldiers, transgender inmates are only eligible for psychiatric care, she said.
曼宁将被关押在堪萨斯州利文沃斯堡的陆军监狱。他要变身女性的决定，引发了监狱该如何反应的问题。该监狱发言人前不久告诉“法院新闻”(Courthouse News)，监狱不提供激素治疗或变性手术。她说，和所有士兵一样，犯人中的跨性别者只能得到精神科护理。
Mr. Coombs acknowledged as much on “Today.” He said that his client had not signaled an interest in gender-reassignment surgery, but that he was hopeful that Fort Leavenworth would “do the right thing” and provide hormone therapy. Such therapeutic regimens can help people with male physical features turn those features more feminine.
库姆斯在《今日秀》上也承认了这一点。他说，他的当事人并没有表现出做变性手术的兴趣，但他希望利文沃斯堡能“做正确的事”，提供激素治疗。类似的疗法会有助于生理特征为男性的人，将那些性征变得更女性化。
Mr. Coombs said that if the military did not provide hormone therapy willingly, “then I’m going to do everything in my power to make sure they are forced to do so.”
库姆斯说，如果军方不愿提供激素治疗，“那么我会尽我所能，迫使军方那样做”。
When asked whether Private Manning’s ultimate goal was to be housed in prison with women, instead of men, Mr. Coombs said, “No, I think the ultimate goal is to be comfortable in her skin and to be the person that she’s never had an opportunity to be.”
当被问及曼宁最终是不是为了要和女性，而非男性关押在一起时，库姆斯说，“不是的，我觉得她的最终目的是对自己的身体觉得舒服，成为她一直没机会成为的那种人。”
Defense lawyers raised the fact that Private Manning is transgender during the sentencing phase of his court-martial, describing the emotional stress he endured while deployed in Iraq.
在军事法庭的宣判阶段，曼宁的辩护律师就提出了他是跨性别者这一事实，并阐述了他在伊拉克服役期间承受的情感压力。
Two psychiatrists testified about treating Private Manning for “gender identity disorder,” a diagnosis for psychological discomfort with one’s sex that the American Psychiatric Association renamed “gender dysphoria” last year. The psychiatrists said that handling such a diagnosis in a combat zone, and at time when it was still against military law to be openly gay, would have put Private Manning under immense pressure.
两名精神科医生作证，曾为曼宁治疗过“性别认同障碍”，这种障碍是指患者对自己的性别有心理不适感。去年，美国精神医学学会(American Psychiatric Association)将这种障碍重新命名为“性别焦虑症”(gender dysphoria)。这两名精神科医生表示，在公开承认自己是同性恋尚不为军律所容的情况下，在作战区面临这样的诊断结果会让曼宁承受巨大的压力。
“You put him in this environment, this kind of hypermasculine environment, if you will, and with no supports and few coping skills, the pressure would have been difficult to say the least,” Capt. Michael Worsley, a clinical psychologist who treated Private Manning, said in court last week. “It would have been incredible.”
“如果你把他放在这种环境里，这种可以说超级阳刚的环境中，而且几乎得不到任何支持，也基本上没有应对技巧，压力会非常难以承受，”治疗过曼宁的临床心理学家迈克尔·沃斯利上尉(Capt. Michael Worsley)上周在法庭上说，“甚至无法承受。”
According to testimony, Private Manning e-mailed a photograph of himself dressed in a blond wig and makeup to a supervisor at one point during his deployment. In the e-mail, which he titled “My Problem,” he described a struggle with something that “makes my entire life feel like a bad dream that won’t end.”
根据证词，派驻海外期间，曼宁曾通过电子邮件向他的上司发送过一张照片，照片中的他戴着金色假发，还化了妆。在这封主题为“我的问题”的电子邮件中，他讲述了自己在同某种“让我的整个人生都像是一场做不完的噩梦”的东西作斗争。
In an online conversation, published by the Web site of Wired magazine in 2010, Private Manning told the man who eventually turned him in to the authorities, Adrian Lamo, that “I wouldn’t mind going to prison for the rest of my life, or being executed so much, if it wasn’t for the possibility of having pictures of me plastered all over the world press as a boy.”
在《连线》杂志(Wired)的网站2010年发表的一段在线对话中，曼宁对名为艾德里安·拉莫(Adrian Lamo)的男子说，“如果不是因为不想让我作为男孩的照片，铺天盖地出现在全世界的媒体上，我倒不介意在监狱里度过余生，甚至被处死。”拉莫最终向当局检举了他。