BRUSSELS — President Donald Trump on Thursday condemned “leaks of sensitive information,” responding to a complaint by Britain’s prime minister, Theresa May, over disclosures of details from the investigation into Britain’s deadliest terrorist attack since 2005.
布鲁塞尔——特朗普周四谴责了“泄漏敏感信息”事件，以回应英国首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)的抗议。遭到泄露的细节和2005年以来英国伤亡最大的恐怖袭击调查有关。
“The alleged leaks coming out of government agencies are deeply troubling,” Trump said in a statement. “These leaks have been going on for a long time, and my administration will get to the bottom of this. The leaks of sensitive information pose a grave threat to our national security.”
“这里所说的泄漏来自政府机构，这非常让人困扰。”特朗普在一份声明中说，“类似的泄漏已经持续很长时间了，我的行政部门将会深入调查此事。敏感信息的泄露对美国的国家安全构成了严重威胁。”
He added: “I am asking the Department of Justice and other relevant agencies to launch a complete review of this matter, and, if appropriate, the culprit should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”
他还说：“我要求司法部和其他有关机构对这件事进行全面检讨，如果适当的话，肇事者应该受到法律的严惩。”
Trump has angrily criticized leaks from his government, many of them revealing information that has been embarrassing or politically damaging to him. In his first month in office, he called for a Justice Department investigation into what he said were “criminal leaks.” Just as he left Washington to start his nine-day overseas trip and again while he has been traveling, more leaks disclosed details about his private conversations.
特朗普愤怒地批评了其政府泄漏消息的状况，其中很多人透露了让他感到尴尬或给其政治上带来损害的信息。在他任职的第一个月，他要求司法部对他所说的“犯罪泄漏”进行调查。就在他离开华盛顿开始为期九天的海外出访时，更多的泄漏事件曝光了他的私人谈话。
But two dimensions of the latest controversy are new: The disclosures in this case are about a terrorism investigation led by a foreign ally, and the British government has brought its complaints to a receptive audience.
但最近这次争议有两个方面是新的：本次披露的信息涉及一个外国盟友领导的恐怖主义调查，而且英国政府把抗议发到了一个乐于倾听的听众那里。
In a statement, May’s office said she would bring up the matter at a NATO gathering in Brussels on Thursday evening and would “make clear to President Trump that intelligence that is shared between our law enforcement agencies must remain secure.”
在一份声明中，梅的办公室表示，她将于周四晚上在布鲁塞尔举行的北约组织会议上提出这件事，并将“向特朗普总统表明，执法机构之间分享的情报必须做到安全”。
In what appears to be another effort to assuage British anger, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson will go to London on Friday to meet with Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson “in an expression of U.K.-U.S. solidarity following the terrorist attack in Manchester earlier this week,” the British Foreign Office announced. The two men “will write messages of condolence for the victims of the attack and hold talks on a range of foreign policy issues,” the statement said.
英国外交部称，美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)周五将到伦敦会见外交大臣鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)，以表达“曼彻斯特发生恐怖袭击之后英美的团结一致”，这似乎是另一个平息英国愤怒情绪的努力。声明说：“两人将向袭击的受害者写慰问信，并就一系列外交政策问题举行会谈。”
May’s statement followed expressions of outrage by top law enforcement officials after The New York Times published images on Wednesday of the fragments, backpack and battery used by Salman Abedi, the 22-year-old bomber who killed 22 people and injured 64 outside the Manchester Arena as a pop concert ended Monday night. The Times did not disclose the source of its information.
《纽约时报》周三发表了袭击者萨勒曼·阿贝迪(Salman Abedi)使用的爆炸物碎片、背包和电池，引起了英国最高执法官员的愤怒，梅的声明就是在这之后发表的。袭击者阿贝迪22岁，本周一晚上，在曼彻斯特体育场举行的一场流行音乐演唱会结束时发生的爆炸致22人死亡，64人受伤。《纽约时报》没有透露其消息来源。
The National Police Chiefs’ Council in Britain called the leaks a breach of trust, adding: “This damage is even greater when it involves unauthorized disclosure of potential evidence in the middle of a major counterterrorism investigation.” The disclosure of potential evidence “undermines our investigations and the confidence of victims, witnesses and their families,” it added.
英国的全国警察局长理事会(Police Chiefs’ Council)称这起泄露事件是对信任的破坏，他们还说：“在大规模反恐调查过程中涉嫌未经授权地披露潜在证据，这种危害就更大了。”披露潜在证据“破坏了我们的调查和受害者、证人及其家属的信任”，声明说道。
On Thursday, Manchester’s top police official, Chief Constable Ian Hopkins, joined the chorus of criticism, saying that the disclosure “has caused much distress for families that are already suffering terribly with their loss.”
周四，曼彻斯特最高警察官员、警察局长伊恩·霍普金斯(Ian Hopkins)加入了批评者的队伍，他说披露这些消息“对已经遭受损失的家庭造成了很大的伤害”。
Earlier in the day, the BBC reported that the Manchester police would no longer share details of the investigation with American counterparts. But Thursday evening, after May had new assurances from Trump, the police announced that intelligence sharing had resumed — if it had ever stopped in the first place.
当天早些时候，BBC报道说，曼彻斯特警方将不再与美国同行分享调查的细节。但周四晚上，梅从特朗普那里得到新的保证后，警方宣布情报分享已经恢复——如果曾经中止过的话。
But Mark Rowley, an assistant commissioner in charge of counterterrorism at Scotland Yard and an officer on the Police Chiefs’ Council, said in a statement released later on Thursday that “while we do not usually comment on information-sharing arrangements with international law enforcement organizations, we want to emphasize that, having received fresh assurances, we are now working closely with our key partners around the world including all those in the ‘Five Eyes’ intelligence alliance,” which includes most prominently the United States.
但苏格兰场反恐怖主管助理专员、全国警察局长理事会成员马克·罗利(Mark Rowley)在周四晚些时候发表的声明中表示：“虽然我们通常不会就与国际执法机构的信息共享安排发表评论，但我们要强调，在得到新的保证后，我们现在正在与世界各地的重要合作伙伴密切合作，包括‘五只眼’(Five Eyes)情报联盟中的合作伙伴，其中最主要的是美国。”
The Times said in a statement:
《纽约时报》在一份声明中说：
The images and information presented were neither graphic nor disrespectful of victims, and consistent with the common line of reporting on weapons used in horrific crimes, as The Times and other media outlets have done following terrorist acts around the world, from Boston to Paris to Baghdad, and many places in between.
刊出的图像和信息既没有对受害者做直接表现，也没有对他们表现不尊重，符合对恐怖罪行中所使用武器的报道的通用标准，就像《纽约时报》和其他媒体在世界各地报道恐怖主义行为时所做的事情一样，不管是在波士顿、巴黎、巴格达，还是在其他很多地方。
Our mission is to cover news and inform our readers. We have strict guidelines on how and in what ways we cover sensitive stories. Our coverage of Monday’s horrific attack has been both comprehensive and responsible.
我们的使命是报道新闻，为读者提供信息。对于如何报道敏感故事，以及以怎样的方式报道，我们有严格的指导规范。我们对周一恐怖袭击的报道不仅全面，而且负责任。
We cover stories about terrorism from all angles. Not only stories about victims but also how terrorist groups work, their sources of funding, how they recruit. Acts of terrorism have tremendous impact on how we live, on how we are governed and how we interact as people, communities and nations. At times the process of reporting this coverage comes at personal risk to our reporters. We do it because it is core to our mission.
我们从各个角度报道恐怖主义事件。不仅有关于受害者的故事，还有恐怖组织的工作方式、资金来源、他们如何招聘新人。恐怖主义行为对我们的生活方式，我们的受统治方式，以及我们与公众、社区和国家的互动方式产生了巨大的影响。有时候，我们的记者是冒着人身风险在进行报道。我们做这些事情，是因为它是我们使命的核心。
The first disclosures in the Manchester bombing case came on Tuesday, when U.S. television networks, in particular NBC and CBS, revealed the name of the Manchester bomber, citing U.S. officials. (The name had also been circulating on social media.)
曼彻斯特爆炸案的细节首次披露是在周二，一些美国电视台，尤其是NBC和CBS，引用美国官员的话，披露了曼彻斯特袭击者的名字（这个名字也已在社交媒体上传播开来）。
Then, on Wednesday, The Times published crime scene photographs of a possible switch to initiate the explosion and parts of the bomb itself. The Times report also pointed out precisely where the bomb had been placed. The Times did not cite its sources, but it attributed its account to “preliminary information gathered by British authorities.”
然后在周三，《纽约时报》发布了犯罪现场的照片，上面是一个可能引发爆炸的开关，以及炸弹碎片。时报也精确地指出了炸弹的放置位置。时报没有引用其来源，但是说这些内容来自于“英国当局收集的初步资料”。
U.S. news organizations have not been alone in disclosing information that appears to have originated with British intelligence. France’s interior minister, Gérard Collomb, said Wednesday that Abedi had “most likely” traveled to Syria, and on Thursday, a German magazine, Focus, cited unnamed German officials saying that Abedi had gotten paramilitary training there.
并不只有美国新闻机构披露了似乎来源于英国情报的信息。法国内政部长热拉尔·科隆(Gérard Collomb)周三表示，阿贝迪“极有可能”前往过叙利亚，周四，德国新闻周刊《焦点》(Focus)援引一位未具名的德国官员的话，说阿贝迪在那里进行了准军事训练。