NEW YORK — It was well after nightfall. The pack of dogs was split into two groups and was led to opposite ends of a desolate alley in downtown Manhattan.
纽约——夜幕早已降临。一群狗被分成了两组，并被分别带到曼哈顿市区一条偏僻小巷的两端。
A man collecting recyclable cans from the trash slipped out just before the owners unleashed the dogs.
一名男子正在垃圾堆中捡拾可回收罐，狗的主人解开狗链之前，他悄悄地离开了。
The rat hunt was on.
猎鼠行动开始了。
The dogs raced toward a pile of trash bags in the middle of the alley, with the smaller dogs combing through the bags and chasing rats out toward the larger dogs.
狗群奔向小巷中间成堆的垃圾袋，小狗则在垃圾袋里到处搜寻，将老鼠赶到大狗那里。
Ernie, a 3-year-old hunt terrier, snapped up a fleeing rat in his jaws and gave him a hard shake. The rat quickly went limp. Ernie’s owner rejoiced over the kill — it was Ernie’s first, after just a few outings of hunting vermin.
3岁的小猎犬厄尼(Ernie)用嘴叼住一只逃窜的老鼠，用力一阵摇晃。老鼠迅速瘫软。厄尼的主人对他的战果非常开心，厄尼已经外出参加了几次猎鼠行动，这是他的首件战利品。
This was another occasional outing for a group of dog owners who take their pets to downtown Manhattan to kill rats.
狗的主人们偶尔带狗外出，去曼哈顿城区捕杀老鼠，这只是其中一次。
The hunts are conducted something like a country fox hunt, but in an urban setting. Members say it allows their dogs — mostly breeds known for chasing small game and vermin — to indulge in basic instinctual drives by killing a dozen or two dozen rats each time they are let loose.
此类捕杀行动类似于乡村地区的猎狐行动，只不过地点变成了城市。成员们表示，这样做能使他们的狗——主要是以追捕小型猎物和害虫而闻名的品种——释放本能，每次解脱锁链后捕杀10几只或20几只老鼠。
“We don’t make a huge difference in the rat population, but the dogs have a lot of fun,” said Richard Reynolds, a main organizer of the group, which, in an effort to form the acronym RATS, he semiseriously calls the Ryders Alley Trencher-fed Society (Ryders Alley was once a rat-infested lane downtown, and trencher-fed refers to the keeping of hounds to hunt). The group, which includes some members who travel from the suburbs, has been meeting for 15 years, mostly in downtown Manhattan in areas where trash is abundant.
这群人的主要组织者理查德·雷诺兹(Richard Reynolds)表示，“老鼠数量并没有因我们而出现巨大变化，但狗玩儿得很开心。”他半严肃地称这个组织为赖德斯巷猎户饲养协会（Ryders Alley Trencher-fed Society，简称RATS，赖德斯巷曾是一条老鼠乱窜的市区小巷，猎户饲养指的是饲养猎犬进行捕猎）。这群人中的一些来自郊区，他们一起开展猎鼠行动已有15年，大多是在曼哈顿市区垃圾成堆的地方。
“We love garbage — if there’s food around, there are rats,” said Mr. Reynolds, a dog breeder from Tenafly, N.J.
来自新泽西州特纳夫莱的育狗员雷诺兹说，“我们喜欢垃圾，有食物的地方就会有老鼠。”
Just before the recent alley hunt, the group had met in City Hall Park, with the energetic little dogs straining their leashes toward the bushes and assuming pointing positions. A local resident who was walking his 12-year-old Jack Russell terrier, Chloe, stopped to chat, and was incredulous when told what the group was doing: using their dogs to find, catch and kill rats in the streets.
就在最近一次巷猎行动之前，成员们带着那些精力充沛的小狗在市政厅公园(City Hall Park)会面，小狗们朝着灌木丛方向扯拽皮带，迫不及待地要冲出去。一位当地居民带着他12岁的杰克罗素梗犬克罗艾(Chloe)出门散步，也停下来聊天，当他听说该组织利用狗在街道上寻找、捕杀老鼠时，他表示不敢相信。
“You guys can do that?” asked Chloe’s owner, Andrew Luan, 42. “I mean, you won’t get tickets, the city’s O.K. with that?”
“你们可以这么做吗？”克罗艾的主人——42岁的安德鲁·卢安(Andrew Luan)说，“我的意思是，你们得到了许可，不会接到罚单吗？”
In fact, it would appear that the rat hunters are not violating any laws or health codes, and the plight of rats, at least those living on and below New York’s streets, does not generate the same level of passion as the plight of, say, the city’s carriage horses.
实际上，捕杀老鼠似乎没有违反任何法律或卫生规范，老鼠——至少是那些生活在纽约街道上或街道下的老鼠——被捕杀，不会像拉马车的马遭遇不幸时那样，激发那么多的愤怒情绪。
“The city loves us,” claimed Mr. Reynolds, casting his group as a free extermination force. He was wearing a tweed cap and gripping a spike-tipped walking stick, for poking garbage bags and for protection from the rodents.
雷诺兹宣称，“这个城市爱我们。”他称自己的组织是一个免费的灭鼠部队。他戴着一顶花呢帽，手握尖头手杖，用来戳垃圾袋，并保护自己不受鼠类攻击。
Soon the hunting group entered the alley — Theater Alley, a deserted narrow lane just off Park Row — and they invited Mr. Luan to come. He accepted.
猎鼠小组很快就进入了剧院巷(Theater Alley)——公园大道(Park Row)旁边的荒芜窄巷，他们邀请卢安前来参加活动。卢安接受了邀请。
“Looks like we got a new member,” said Jimmy Hoffman, 37, who held Mighty, his 3-year-old Patterdale terrier, on a leash.
37岁的吉米·霍夫曼(Jimmy Hoffman)说，“看来我们有了新成员了。”他用一根皮带牵着他3岁的帕特大勒梗犬米蒂(Mighty)。
“Hopefully you’ll get some food tonight, huh Mighty?” said Mr. Hoffman, of Bellerose, Queens.
来自皇后区贝尔罗斯凯富的霍夫曼说，“希望你今晚能找到一些食物，对吗，米蒂？”
In the alley, Ernie’s owner said she was a veterinarian from Manhattan on her third hunt who asked that her name not be published because “it wouldn’t go over well with some of my clients.”
在剧院巷上，厄尼的主人称自己是来自曼哈顿的兽医，这是第三次参加猎鼠行动，但她要求匿名，因为“我的一些客户无法接受这种事情”。
“Once he got a taste for it, he has not stopped looking” for rats, she said, adding the hunt “provides mental stimulation” for the dogs.
她说，“自从他尝过一次之后，就没有停止寻找”老鼠。她还表示，猎鼠行动为狗“提供了脑力刺激”。
“They are using their brain,” she said. “It’s in their nature, it’s what they want to do, but in the city, it’s hard for them to do it.”
“他们在动脑，”她说，“这是他们的天性，这是他们想要做的事情，但在城市中，他们很难做这种事情。”
Hunting rats does pose risks, since they are known to carry diseases, including leptospirosis, a bacterial disease that often affects animals, but the veterinarian said it was not the season for it.
捕杀老鼠确实存在风险，因为众所周知，老鼠携带病菌，比如细螺旋体病，这是动物经常感染的细菌性疾病，但这名兽医表示，现在不是爆发这种疾病的季节。
Mr. Reynolds said there had been a few lacerations to the dogs from rat bites and other mishaps, but nothing serious. Still, he said, he carries “a traveling field hospital” in his truck, just in case, and a staple gun in his pocket, to mend wounds.
雷诺兹表示，狗身上有一些老鼠咬痕及其他小事故造成的伤，但并不严重。他表示，他的卡车上设有“移动的野战医院”，以防万一，他的口袋里装有一支射钉枪，用来缝合伤口。
Still, not everyone supports the rat hunts. Brian Shapiro, the New York State director for the Humane Society of the United States, said there were numerous cases of dogs biting rats and ingesting poison consumed by the rat.
但并非所有人都支持猎鼠行动。美国人道协会(Humane Society of the United States)纽约州负责人布赖恩·夏皮罗(Brian Shapiro)表示，出现过很多狗在咬完老鼠后，摄入了老鼠曾吞吃的毒药的例子。
This type of activity exposes dogs to the “likelihood of eventual toxic exposure,” he said, adding, “The more times the owners send them out, they are repeatedly exposing them to that risk — it’s not good guardianship for a dog.”
这种行动会使狗“有可能最终接触到一些有毒物质”，他补充道，“主人派他们外出捕鼠的次数越多，他们就会反复暴露在这种风险之下——对于狗来说，这并不是一种好的看护方式。”
“They don’t choose to go into the alley — they are sent in,” he said of the dogs, and added, “This is not an effective means of pest control because they are not getting any significant number of rats.”
“他们没有选择进入这条巷子，他们被派去捕鼠，”他提到这些狗时说，并补充表示，“这不是防治害虫的有效方式，因为他们没有捕杀大量老鼠。”
As for the rats, he said, “You want to address them in a manner that causes the least amount of suffering.”
至于老鼠，他表示，“人们希望除掉老鼠，但要将痛苦降到最低。”
A spokeswoman for the New York City Police Department said there was no information available on the legality of using dogs to hunt rats in the city.
纽约市警察局(New York City Police Department)的女发言人表示，没有任何资料显示，用狗在城市里捕杀老鼠是合法的。
Mr. Reynolds said he hated animal cruelty, but he argued that no harm had ever come to any of the dogs, and added that rat poison causes a slow, painful death, compared to a quick death in a dog’s jaws.
雷诺兹表示，他厌恶虐待动物的行为，但他辩称，这些狗中，从没有一只受到过任何伤害，并表示，老鼠药带来缓慢而痛苦的死亡，而颚部受伤会使狗迅速死亡。
Another stop during a recent hunt was an outdoor plaza at the Seward Park Extension on Allen Street. A resident standing outside, Dolly Laureano, greeted the group and said that her mother had posted a note about the plaza on the hunting group’s Facebook page.
最近猎鼠行动的一个地点是艾伦大街(Allen Street)上苏域柏公园扩建区(Seward Park Extension)的户外广场。多莉·劳雷亚诺(Dolly Laureano)站在外面迎接猎鼠小组，并表示她的母亲已经在该捕猎组织的Facebook主页上发布了广场行动的相关信息。
Next to the plaza, the group put a small dog inside a Dumpster behind the Seventh Precinct station house, at Delancey and Ridge Streets, and the rats came shooting out a single hole at the bottom, with the dogs in hot pursuit.
在广场一侧，也就是地兰西大街(Delancey Street)和瑞吉街(Ridge Street)的交汇处，猎鼠小组将一只小狗放入第七区警局后面的一个大垃圾箱中，老鼠们从底部的一个洞口蹿出，小狗们则穷追不舍。
One darted under a parked Lexus and was cornered by Paco, a feisty dog belonging to Bill Reyna, from Wayne, N.J. Finally, the rat streaked out, and Paco chomped down on it and left it at the base of a No Parking sign. Mr. Reyna photographed the encounter and showed it to Mr. Hoffman.
一只老鼠猛冲到一辆停着的雷克萨斯(Lexus)车下，躁动不安的帕克(Paco)看到了它，帕克的主人是来自新泽西州韦恩的比尔·雷纳(Bill Reyna)。最终，这只老鼠飞奔而出，帕克急忙咬住它，把它压在一个“禁止停车”的标志底部。雷纳拍到了这一瞬间，并向霍夫曼展示。
“Whoa, that’s mid-shake,” Mr. Hoffman exclaimed. “That’s got to get framed on the wall.”
“哇，这是他摆头摆了一半的照片，”霍夫曼高呼道，“必须把它镶到相框里，挂到墙上。”