Two by two, the children marched into the assembly hall at Piet van Vuuren Primary School in the working-class neighborhood of Brixton, their white, black and brown faces a tribute to the man they had come to praise.
在南非布里克斯顿工薪阶层居民区的皮特·范维伦小学(Piet van Vuuren Primary School)里，孩子们两个一组，步入学校礼堂，他们的白色、黑色和棕色的面庞，就是对他们前来颂扬的人的致敬。
“Happy Birthday, Tata Madiba,” they pealed, hundreds of voices in cacophonous unison, using the clan name for Nelson Mandela, South Africa’s ailing first black president. “We love you, we do!”
“生日快乐，塔塔马迪巴(Tata Madiba)。”孩子们一起大声说，数百个声音不太整齐划一，他们用的南非第一位黑人总统纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的部族名字。“我们爱你，衷心爱你！”
Before 1994, when Mr. Mandela was elected president, this school was reserved for white children under the harsh system of segregation known as apartheid. Now, the school is the very picture of the Rainbow Nation that Mr. Mandela strove to create.
1994年曼德拉当选总统之前，依据严苛的南非种族隔离制度，这所学校只接收白人儿童。现在，这所学校已经成为曼德拉努力建立的“彩虹之国”的真实写照。
“If it wasn’t for Tata Madiba, I wouldn’t be in this school right now,” said Luzuho Mdizu, 12, a seventh grader who is the school’s top male student. “He is my hero.”
“如果不是塔塔马迪巴，现在我就不会在这所学校里。”12岁的卢祖赫·迪祖(Luzuho Mdizu)说，他目前读七年级，是该校最优秀的男生。“他是我的英雄。”
Across the country on Thursday, South Africans spent 67 minutes on Mr. Mandela’s 95th birthday helping others as a tribute to Mr. Mandela’s 67 years in public service.
本周四，在曼德拉95岁生日之际，南非全国上下用67分钟的时间来帮助他人，纪念曼德拉在公共服务领域度过的67个年头。
After weeks battling critical illness, Mr. Mandela remained in the hospital on Thursday although the authorities said his condition was “steadily improving.”
曼德拉跟重病作战已经有数周时间，虽然当局说他的健康状况在“稳步改善”，但本周四他仍然住在医院。
The upbeat assessment contrasted with the widespread concern among South Africans and those around the world that Mr. Mandela might not recover from a lung infection that forced him into the hospital on June 8 for the fourth time in a year. Previously, the authorities had described his condition as critical but stable.
这样乐观的评估，跟南非和世界各地对曼德拉可能无法康复的普遍担心形成反差；由于出现肺部感染，曼德拉不得不在6月8日入院治疗，这是一年之内他第四次住院。此前，当局形容他的病情严重但是稳定。
In a statement released on Thursday, President Jacob Zuma wished Mr. Mandela a happy birthday and said, “Madiba remains in hospital in Pretoria but his doctors have confirmed that his health is steadily improving.”
在本周四发表的一份声明中，南非总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)祝曼德拉生日快乐，他说：“马迪巴仍然住在比勒陀利亚的医院，但他的医生已经确认，他的健康状况正在稳步改善。”
In an interview with Britain’s Sky News, one of Mr. Mandela’s daughters, Zindzi Mandela-Motlhajwa, said on Wednesday that Mr. Mandela was watching television and using headphones to hear the sound.
曼德拉的女儿辛琪·曼德拉-莫特哈吉瓦(Zindzi Mandela-Motlhajwa)周三接受英国天空新闻台(Sky News)采访时表示，曼德拉可以看电视，并且通过耳机接收声音。
“You can see he is there in his eyes, the same energy and strength,” she said. The family planned to present Mr. Mandela with a collage of family photographs as a birthday gift, she said.
她说：“从他的眼神里，你可以看到他很清醒，而且跟之前一样强大、有活力。”家里打算把一本家庭照片拼贴薄作为生日礼物，送给曼德拉，她说。
Little is known about the details of his medical condition. A court affidavit filed in June in a dispute within Mr. Mandela’s family over where he might be buried claimed he was in a permanent vegetative state, but both family and medical team members have since denied this. Family members and friends who have visited him more recently say that Mr. Mandela is sometimes awake, smiling, communicating with his eyes and even trying to talk.
曼德拉健康状况的细节鲜为人知。今年六月，当家人对曼德拉应该在何处安葬产生纷争时，一份法庭证词称他处于永久植物人状态，但随后他的家人和医疗团队成员都否认了这一说法。最近看望过曼德拉的家人和朋友表示，曼德拉有时处于清醒状态，他会微笑，用眼神进行交流，甚至试着说话。
On Thursday, hundreds of people gathered outside the Pretoria hospital where Mr. Mandela has been treated for the past 40 days. Officials from the African National Congress brought a birthday cake, while well-wishers added more posters and flowers to the mountain of tributes outside the hospital, ululating and breaking out into freedom songs from the struggle against apartheid.
在过去40天的时间里，曼德拉在比勒陀利亚医院(Pretoria)接受治疗。周四，该医院外聚集了数百人。非洲人国民大会(African National Congress)的官员们带来一个生日蛋糕，医院外礼物堆积如山，支持者们带来了更多标语牌和鲜花，边哭泣边高唱反种族隔离斗争时期歌颂自由的歌曲。
Desmond Tutu, the retired archbishop of Cape Town, Nobel Peace Prize laureate and icon of the struggle against apartheid, spent his morning painting the walls of a school in a shantytown.
诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)获得者、反种族隔离斗争的标志性人物——已经退休的开普敦大主教德斯蒙德·图图(Desmond Tutu)当天上午在贫民区为一个学校粉刷墙壁。
A community group in Mpumalanga spent the day building a library for an elementary school in the impoverished town of Nhlazatshe, installing five computers and shelves full of books.
姆普马兰加的一个社区组织当天在贫困小镇尼拉匝特什为一所小学修建了一个图书馆，安装了五台电脑和很多书架，书架上摆满了书籍。
South Africans of all races joined hands in human chains across the country, a symbol of Mr. Mandela’s enduring vision of a country where all people, regardless of race, were equal citizens.
全国各地各个种族的南非人拉起手组成人链，代表了曼德拉有关国家的经久不衰的观点，即在一个国家当中，所有人都是平等的公民，不分种族。
At Piet van Vuuren Primary School in Brixton, children armed with black garbage bags trooped out to clean up litter from the surrounding streets. Other students donated blankets to people living in shacks in the nearby Joe Slovo Informal Settlement.
在布里克斯顿的皮特·范维伦小学，孩子们带着黑色垃圾袋，成群结队地前往周边街道清理垃圾。其他学生则为那些生活在附近乔·斯洛沃非正式定居区(Joe Slovo Informal Settlement)棚屋中的人捐赠毯子。
None of the school’s students were even born by the time Mr. Mandela stepped down from the presidency in 1999, and some were born after Mr. Mandela retired from public life in 2004. But his name, his image and his message still resonate, said Ashleigh Marie Hedin, 12, a seventh grader.
该学校的所有学生都是在曼德拉于1999年卸任总统后出生的，有些学生甚至是在曼德拉于2004年退出公众生活后出生的。但七年级学生——12岁的阿什莉·玛丽·埃丁(Ashleigh Marie Hedin)表示，曼德拉的名字、形象及思想仍然能使人产生共鸣。
“Madiba is always with us,” she said. “He gave us freedom.”
“马迪巴一直与我们同在，”她说，“他给了我们自由。”
Ms. Mandela-Motlhajwa, a daughter of Mr. Mandela and his former wife Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, called his birthday “a gift to the nation.”
曼德拉的女儿曼德拉-莫特哈吉瓦及前妻温妮-马迪基泽拉-曼德拉(Winnie Madikizela-Mandela)称他的生日是“赐予这个国家的礼物”。
“There are some prophets of doom who say the country will come to a standstill” when he dies, she told a local radio station. But, she said, “the country will continue as it has always done. If anything, the country will solidify, come together and carry on.”
她告诉当地一家无线电台，如果曼德拉去世了，“会有一些悲观论者说这个国家将停滞不前”。但她表示，“这个国家会一如从前，如果有什么区别的话，那就是它会团结起来，手牵手，继续前行。”