My favorite fact about Nelson Mandela is that he invited one of his white jailers, who had helped imprison him for 27 years, to his inauguration as South Africa’s president. It was a sign of the magnanimity, warmth and absolute lack of vindictiveness that marked Mandela.
纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的所有故事中，我最喜欢的一个是：他邀请了一名白人看守参加他作为南非总统的就职典礼，而此人曾在他27年的监禁生涯中看押他。这一举动展现出的博大胸襟、温暖人性，以及毫无报复心的宽容，正是曼德拉最核心的品质。
There have been many great dissidents and freedom-fighters, but few have made the transition well to national leader. The qualities that mark a rebel—raw courage and stubbornness, even unreasonableness—don’t tend to make a great president. Mandela faced plenty of pressures to be petty, to humiliate those who had humiliated him and even murdered his friends, yet he somehow resisted them. He’s the biggest man I’ve ever seen.
世界上不乏伟大的异见人士和自由斗士，但是没有几个能够顺利地转变为国家领袖。反叛者的特质——无所顾忌的勇气、倔强，甚至非理性——往往无法造就一个伟大的总统。曼德拉面对的压力足以他变成一个心胸狭隘的人，足以促使他去羞辱那些羞辱过他的、甚至谋杀了他朋友的人，然而他却设法克服了这些压力。他是我见过胸襟最宽广的人。
More broadly, Mandela epitomized public service and sacrifice more than anyone of his generation. Here was a lawyer with a promising career who could have chosen to work within the system, and yet he tossed it aside to fight for all his country’s people. When on trial and facing the death penalty, he was defiant as ever. And then during those 27 years in prison, he was repeatedly offered the chance to be released early. Indeed, the government pretty much begged him to accept a conditional release, because he was an embarrassment behind bars. Yet he refused to accept anything less than an absolutely unconditional release—and eventually he got it.
从更广泛的意义上讲，曼德拉是为大众谋利的典范，他为之做出的牺牲是同代中任何人都无法相比的。他曾经是一名律师，前途一片光明，他本可以选择在体制内执业，但他却放弃了这样的机会，来为他国家的全体人民而抗争。在受审并面临死刑判决时，他的反抗精神仍一丝不减。在狱中的27年，他多次有机会提前出狱。确切地说，政府几乎都在求他接受有条件的释放，因为他关在里面令他们颜面扫地。然而他拒绝接受任何有条件的释放，最后他终于得偿所愿。
Putting his country first also meant family troubles, including his break with his wife, Winnie, after he was released. It meant standing up to those long-time allies of his who thought that he was acquiescing in racial and economic gulfs and giving away the store. And it meant taking just one term as president, to show that South Africa would be led by laws and not presidents-for-life. That set an example for governance that rippled around the region.
将国家置于首位也意味着家庭的矛盾，包括他在出狱之后与妻子温妮(Winnie)离了婚。这也意味和长期盟友的对立，这些人以为他默许种族和经济鸿沟的存在，做出了太大的让步。这还意味着只担任一届总统，为的是告诉世人，领导南非的是法律，而不是终身制的总统。这在整个地区产生了影响，为其他国家的治理树立了榜样。
When experts debate why Africa faltered in the post-independence period, one common factor cited is poor governance and poor leadership (partly because of dismal education systems and tribal conflicts put in place by colonial authorities). There were few shining examples of great leaders in Africa, outside of Botswana. Yet Mandela turned out to be as great as a president as he was as a freedom fighter, and his example was inspiring and contagious. All across Africa and the world, people turned to Mandela as an inspiration of public service and leadership. He raised the bar, and it’s perhaps not a coincidence that African leadership has been much better in the post-Mandela period.
当专家在讨论非洲为何会在独立后陷入衰落的时候，一个经常被提到的原因是，糟糕的治理和糟糕的领导力（部分原因是糟糕的教育体系和殖民当局所导致的部落冲突）。在博茨瓦纳之外，非洲几乎没有几位杰出的领导人。然而，曼德拉作为总统就像他作为自由斗士一样出色，他的事迹鼓舞人心，极具感染力。在非洲乃至整个世界，人们从曼德拉为大众谋利的事迹和出色的领导力中获得力量。他树立了更高的标准，在曼德拉之后，非洲各国的领导力有了大幅改进，这也许并不是巧合。
There’s also a message for the rest of the world. When Mandela was behind bars and most needed help, much of the world was mute. Dick Cheney even voted against a 1986 House Resolution calling on South Africa to release Mandela. That was short-sighted, and we are similarly short-sighted when we don’t speak up for dissidents in countries from China to Bahrain. Eventually freedom will prevail in Beijing and Bahrain as it does in South Africa.
他也向世界的其他地区传递了一个讯息。当曼德拉关在狱中时，在他最需要帮助的时候，世界大部分地区都在沉默。迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)甚至投票反对1986年敦促南非释放曼德拉的众议院决议。这种做法是短视的，而当我们拒绝为中国和巴林等国的异见人士声张正义时，我们同样也是短视的。终有一天，自由会在中国和巴林扎根，就像在南非一样。
Mandela’s contributions to black-white conciliation are well known, but what is perhaps less famous is his tireless work to fight AIDS, to bring peace to warring nations, and to promote respect for LGBT rights. In a continent that has often been deeply repressive of gays and lesbians, Mandela was a strong advocate of equality and gay marriage, and it was because of his influence that South Africa became the fifth country in the world to legalize gay marriage. He was a leader not just for South Africa but for the world.
曼德拉最广为人知的贡献是促成了种族和解，但除此之外，他还曾经为抗击艾滋病，使陷入战争的国家恢复和平，倡导尊重男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别人群(LGBT)的权利而不懈努力。在一个曾经时常对男女同性恋进行重度打压的大陆，曼德拉是平等和同性婚姻的强烈支持者，因为他的影响，南非成为了世界上第五个使同性婚姻合法化的国家。他不仅是南非的领袖，也是世界的领袖。
So, yes, a mighty figure may have died at the age of 95. But travel around Africa and the world, and you see his imprint, his legacy, his spirit. Mandela lives.
因此，是的，一个伟大的人物可能已经在95岁时死去。但是走在非洲和世界各地，你都能看到他的印记、他的遗产，以及他的精神。曼德拉永生。 