Midtown East does not usually make an apartment hunter’s shortlist.
曼哈顿中城东区(Midtown East)，通常很少进入找房者的终选名单。 
But with prices there lower than in many other Manhattan neighborhoods, buyers and developers are taking a fresh look at the area, roughly defined as from Fifth Avenue to the East River between 40th and 59th Streets, particularly its eastern swath. Until recently, the neighborhood’s biggest draw was its enviable commute to the office. Now, that perception is changing.
不过，由于那里的房价比曼哈顿其它住宅区要低一些，买家与开发商们开始对其另眼相看了。这片区域，大致覆盖了从第五大道(Fifth Avenue)至伊斯特河(East River)，40街与59街之间的地区，尤其是东边那一溜。直至不久前，这片社区最大的吸引力，仍然是通勤上班令人艳羡的便捷。但现在，那样的看法正在逐渐转变。
In recent months, developers have broken ground on several luxury projects, including 50 United Nations Plaza, a 43-story luxury tower rising across from the United Nations Secretariat Building where condominium prices will begin just north of $2 million. As high-rises reshape the skyline, new upscale restaurants are adding a sophisticated flavor to the Second Avenue corridor, which has long been dismissed as a forgettable happy-hour magnet for young office workers.
最近几个月，一些开发商已启动了数个豪华房产项目，其中包括联合国广场50号(50 United Nations Plaza)，那是一栋43层的豪华大厦，在联合国秘书处大楼(United Nations Secretariat Building)的正对面拔地而起。而这栋大厦中的共管公寓将以超过200万美元（约合人民币1245万元）的价格起售。随着这些高楼大厦重新勾勒出城市的天际线，一些新开的高档餐馆也为第二大道(Second Avenue)的商业走廊增添了一点精致的味道。那里长期以来被年轻的上班族们视为一处容易抛在脑后的享乐之地，备受冷落。
“People associate Midtown East with work, they don’t think of it as residential,” said Victoria Vinokur, a broker with Halstead Property. “We don’t have the boutiques, we don’t have the SoHo atmosphere. But I think this is such a terrific, true Old World neighborhood. It’s very discreet. It’s very charming.”
“人们往往将中城东区与工作关联起来，他们没有把这里当成住宅区，”哈尔斯泰德地产公司(Halstead Property)的一位经纪人维多利亚·维诺库尔(Victoria Vinokur)说，“我们这里没有精品店，也没有苏豪区(SoHo)的那种氛围。但我觉得，这是个非常棒的、真正的老式社区。这里非常朴素，非常有魅力。”
Celebrities are taking notice. Last year, the actress Uma Thurman bought an apartment in the exclusive River House on East 52nd Street. And this spring Mary-Kate Olsen and her fiancé, Olivier Sarkozy, bought a townhouse in Turtle Bay Gardens, an enclave of rowhouses along 48th and 49th Streets, between Second and Third Avenues. The actress Katharine Hepburn lived in one of the houses on 49th Street for decades.
许多社会名流也正在关注这里。去年，女演员乌玛·瑟曼(Uma Thurman)在东52街那座独一无二的River House大厦中购置了一套公寓。而今年春天，玛丽·凯特·奥尔森（Mary-Kate Olsen，美国著名双胞胎电视明星之一——译注）和她的未婚夫奥利维尔·萨科奇(Olivier Sarkozy)一起，在“海龟湾花园”(Turtle Bay Gardens)中购置了一栋联排别墅。那是第二、第三大道之间、48街和49街沿线的一片独立的排屋群。女演员凯瑟琳·赫本(Katharine Hepburn)也曾经在49街的一栋房屋里生活了几十年。
Residential construction has been frenzied recently. A 61-story tower designed by Foster and Partners, the firm headed by the Pritzker Prize-winning architect Norman Foster, is rising at 610 Lexington Avenue next to the Seagram Building. Construction is underway at the Sutton, a 30-story tower at 959 First Avenue. And last month, sales began at the CookFox-designed 301 East 50th Street, a 29-story building with a limestone facade.
最近，这里正在疯狂兴建住宅楼。在莱辛顿大道(Lexington Avenue)610号，毗邻西格拉姆大厦(Seagram Building)的地方，一栋61层高的大楼正拔地而起，这座大楼的设计公司福斯特建筑事务所(Foster and Partners)的主管，是曾经荣获普利兹克奖(Pritzker Prize)的建筑师诺曼·福斯特(Norman Foster)。一栋位于第一大道(First Avenue)959号的30层高楼Sutton，也在施工之中。而就在上个月，东50街301号那栋由CookFox公司设计的29层石灰岩立面建筑，已经开盘销售了。
Added to that, the commercial area around Grand Central Terminal also might change dramatically in coming years once Mayor Bill de Blasio revives a proposal to rezone about 70 blocks of Midtown East. The original plan, which fizzled in the waning days of the Bloomberg administration, would have paved the way for a new generation of taller, state-of-the-art office buildings. As a first step in a long-term rezoning effort, the de Blasio administration plans to rezone Vanderbilt Avenue to allow for a 1,200-foot-tall skyscraper and a pedestrian plaza, along with infrastructure improvements.
除此之外，一旦白思豪(Bill de Blasio)市长重提一项有关为中城东区70条街区重新分区的议案，纽约中央车站周围的这片商业区，可能也会在未来数年中发生巨变。这项原本在布隆伯格(Bloomberg)市长任期尾声逐渐销声匿迹的议案，将为建设新一批楼层更高的顶级办公大楼扫清道路。在推进分区这项需要长期努力的工作中，按照一项初步措施，白思豪领导班子计划将范德比尔特大道(Vanderbilt Avenue)进行重新规划，以便为一栋1200英尺（约366米）高的摩天大楼和一座步行广场留出空间，并改善那里的基础设施。
“It’s a lot happening all at once, and the people in the immediate vicinity are certainly struggling with the effects” of simultaneous construction projects, said Daniel R. Garodnick, a member of the City Council whose district includes Midtown East. Mr. Garodnick is part of a task force that will provide the mayor with recommendations on how to rezone the commercial area.
“一时间有太多变化要发生，而住得最近的那些人，肯定要抵制这些同时施工的项目所带来的影响，”市议会的一名议员丹尼尔·R·葛罗尼克(Daniel R. Garodnick)说，他的辖区就包括了中城东区。葛罗尼克是特别小组的一名成员，该小组将为市长提供一些关于怎样重新规划商业区的建议。
Despite the influx of luxury high-rises, Midtown East still sells at a discount compared with trendier Manhattan neighborhoods. In 2013, the average price for a condo in Midtown East, from Fifth Avenue to the East River, was $1.85 million compared with $3.22 million in the West Village. Closer to the river, prices drop further, to $1.48 million for a condo in Turtle Bay, according to data provided by CityRealty.
尽管已有许多豪华的高层建筑涌现出来，但相比曼哈顿的那些更加新潮的社区，中城东区仍在折价售楼。在2013年，从第五大道至伊斯特河，该地区内一套共管公寓(condo)的均价为185万美元（约合人民币1148万元）。相比之下，西村(West Village)的均价是322万美元（约合人民币2003万元）。而根据CityRealty公司提供的数据，在距离河边更近的地方，房价下跌幅度更大，乃至在海龟湾，一套共管公寓售价为148万美元（约合人民币918万元）。
“Manhattan is inward-looking,” said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. “Unless you’re directly on the water, values often tend to slide downward as you move away from the center.”
“曼哈顿是着眼内部的，”米勒-萨姆尔评估公司(Miller Samuel)的总裁乔纳森·J·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)说，“除非你直接住到水上去，此外，越是在远离中心区域的地方，房产价值也往往越下滑。”
Paul Lerner, 44, a publicist, paid $1.4 million in 2008 for a spacious two-bedroom with city views in the Sutton House on East 52nd Street. “I got a lot of bang for my buck,” he said. “I looked at Chelsea — I so wanted to be that person.” But apartments he saw there were dark and “depressing,” he said. “I love where I live.”
现年44岁的公关从业者保罗·勒纳(Paul Lerner)，于2008年花140万美元（约合人民币871万元），在东52街的Sutton House购置了一套能看见城市景观的宽敞的双卧室公寓。“这笔钱花得超值，”他说，“我也在切尔西区(Chelsea)看了房子——我曾经特别想当那样的一个人。”但他在那边看的一些公寓，都是黑乎乎的，而且“很压抑”，他说。“我喜欢我现在住的地方。”
A Whole Foods Market opened in 2012 on East 57th Street as part of a development that also included a new space for two public schools, which has given local parents a reason to stay put. After a long delay, construction recently began on the residential component of the project, a 65-story tower at Second Avenue with a mix of condos and rental units. In the last few years, decidedly downtown eateries like the Smith and Socarrat Paella Bar have opened outposts along Second Avenue.
2002年，作为一个开发项目的一部分，一家“全食超市”(Whole Foods Market)在东57街开张。该项目还规划了两所公立学校，让当地的父母们有了一个继续留在原地的理由。拖延很久之后，该项目中的住宅部分终于于近日破土动工，那是一座位于第二大道(Second Avenue)上的65层高楼，将共管公寓与租赁公寓混在一起。就在近几年，如Smith和Socarrat Paella Bar这样的著名市中心饮食店，已经在第二大道一带开了一些分店。
“We thought that a Socarrat in the middle of nowhere would be good,” said Jesus Manso, the owner of the Spanish restaurant, which also has locations in Chelsea and NoLIta.
“我们认为，在这样偏远的地方有一家Socarrat是件好事，” 这家西班牙餐厅的老板杰西·曼索(Jesus Manso)说，该餐厅在切尔西区和诺利塔区(NoLita)也有分店。
On a recent Saturday evening, Crave Fishbar, a restaurant on Second Avenue with a nautical décor, was crowded with diners. The restaurant’s original location across the street, when it was known as Crave Ceviche Bar, was destroyed by a deadly construction crane disaster in 2008. Two years later, the restaurant’s owners bought the current location at 945 Second Avenue for $4.5 million. They renovated the apartments above the restaurant, adding a penthouse duplex with a terrace where the chef, Todd Mitgang, now lives with his wife and two children. “We felt like we had a strong tie to a neighborhood,” Mr. Mitgang said.
上周六晚，第二大道上的一家航海主题餐厅Crave Fishbar宾客盈门。这家餐厅的旧址位于街对面，曾用名为Crave Ceviche Bar，后于2008年毁于一次致命的工程起重机事故。两年后，该餐厅的老板以450万美元（约合人民币2799万元）的价格买下了第二大道945号的这个现在的地方。他们翻修了这家餐厅楼上的那些公寓，并增加了一套带阳台的复式顶层公寓，现在由餐厅主厨托德·密特岗(Todd Mitgang)和他妻子及两个孩子居住。“我们觉得自己与一片社区息息相关，”密特岗说。
Now, a 32-story residential tower, Halcyon, is rising at 305 East 51st Street, the site of the crane disaster. Designed by SLCE Architects, the building has interiors by S. Russell Groves. Sales have been brisk, with 65 percent of the 123 units already sold. Prices for the remaining units start at $1.635 million for a one-bedroom.
如今，在起重机事故的发生地、东51街305号，一栋32层的住宅楼正拔地而起。这栋高楼由SLCE Architects公司设计，S·罗素·格罗夫斯(S. Russell Groves)负责室内装修。该楼盘卖得相当轻松，全部123套公寓里，已有65%的数量售出；而在剩下那些单元中，单卧室公寓的起价为163.5万美元（约合人民币1017万元）。