FORT MEADE, Md. — Pfc. Bradley Manning, who is facing up to 90 years in prison for leaking 700,000 government files to WikiLeaks, apologized on Wednesday for the “unintended consequences of my actions.” He told the judge at his court-martial trial that while he “believed it was going to help people, not hurt people,” he now realized that what he did was wrong.
马里兰州米德堡——周三，一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Pfc. Bradley Manning)为“其行为造成的意外后果”致歉。他因向维基解密(WikiLeaks)泄露了70万份政府文件而面临最高达90年的徒刑。在军事法庭审判中，他对法官说，他曾“相信自己的行为会对民众有益，而不是伤害他们”。然而现在，他认识到自己的行为是错的。
“I’m sorry that my actions hurt people,” he said. “I’m sorry that they hurt the United States. At the time of my decision, as you know, I was dealing with a lot of issues, issues that are ongoing and continue to affect me” — a reference to matters like his crisis over his gender identity, which he was confronting while on a military deployment in a combat zone.
他说，“对不起，我的行为伤害了大家。对不起，我的行为伤害了美国。如你所知，在我做决定时，我正在处理一大堆问题，这些问题没完没了，而且在持续地影响我。”曼宁指的是在战区执行军事任务时，他曾面临自我性别认同危机等问题。
Throughout the case, open-government activists have celebrated Private Manning’s leaks as a heroic act to be admired and emulated even as his critics have denounced him as a traitor. And earlier in his court-martial, Private Manning’s defense lawyer, David E. Coombs, portrayed his client as a whistle-blower, even if a naïve one. But in the sentencing phase this week, Mr. Coombs has elicited testimony that depicted his client as a smaller, sadder figure — a damaged and confused young man whose decision-making capacity when he decided to leak the files was impaired by extraordinary stress.
在此案的过程中，支持公开政府行为的活动人士一直将曼宁的泄密行为称赞为值得敬仰和效仿的英勇之举，然而与此同时，他的批评者却斥责他是一名叛徒。在早先的军事法庭审判中，曼宁的辩护律师戴维·E·库姆斯(David E. Coombs)把他的当事人刻画成了一名揭秘者，尽管这名揭秘者表现天真。然而，在本周的量刑阶段，库姆斯引入的证词把他的当事人刻画成了一个更具悲剧性的小人物，一个受到伤害、头脑糊涂的年轻人，当他决定泄露文件时，他的决策能力受到了非比寻常的精神压力的影响。
In his statement, Private Manning said these personal issues did not justify the things he did.
在他的陈词中，曼宁表示，这些私人问题不足以成为为其所作所为辩解的理由。
“Although a considerable difficulty in my life,” he said, “ these issues are not an excuse for my actions. I understood what I was doing and the decisions I made. However, I did not fully appreciate the broader effects of my actions. Those factors are clear to me now.”
他说，“尽管我的生活遇到巨大的困难，这些问题依然不是我为自身行为开脱的借口。我了解我在做什么，了解我所做的决定。然而，我没有充分意识到我的行为造成的广泛后果。现在，我清楚地了解这些后果了。”
Private Manning’s three-minute statement to the judge, Col. Denise R. Lind, was not sworn, so prosecutors could not cross-examine him.
曼宁向法官丹尼丝·林德上校(Col. Denise Lind)做出三分钟的陈词时，没有宣誓，因此控方无法诘问他。
For much of the day, the defense sought to portray Private Manning in human terms, from a difficult childhood — starting with his mother’s heavy drinking while she was pregnant with him — to his mental and emotional deterioration while in Iraq.
当日的大部分时间里，辩护方都在力图用惹人同情的词语描绘曼宁，从他困苦的童年——以他的母亲在怀他时就酗酒作为开场——一直延续到了他在伊拉克时精神紊乱、情绪恶化的艰难时光。
Under questioning from Mr. Coombs, Capt. David Moulton, a clinical psychiatrist who extensively examined his client after his arrest, described the stress and isolation that Private Manning was under, and framed his release of the documents to WikiLeaks as the immature, even neurotic act of an idealist who thought he could end all wars.
在接受库姆斯的质询时，曾在曼宁被捕之后，对他做过全面检查的临床心理学家、戴维·莫尔顿上尉(Capt. David Moulton)描述了曼宁曾经承受的精神压力和孤独状态，他把曼宁向维基解密泄露文件的举动，表述为一名理想主义者的不成熟之举、甚至是神经过敏之举，因为这名理想主义者认为，他能终结所有战争。
Under such stress, Captain Moulton said, “his abnormal personality traits became more prominent — he was acting out his grandiose ideation, his difficulties during that post-adolescent period. And ultimately, when he came into contact or had contact with the information which he ended up releasing, his decision-making capacity at that point was influenced by the stress of his situation, for sure.”
莫尔顿说，在这种压力下，“他的反常人格特性变得更加突出，他在实施自己的宏伟构想，发泄他对后青春期遭遇的困境的不满。毫无疑问的是，最终，当他接触到被他泄露的信息、或者和这些信息产生联系时，他在那一刻的决策能力受到了精神压力的影响。”
He also said Private Manning exhibited traits of fetal alcohol syndrome and some of the social difficulties associated with Asperger’s syndrome, along with narcissistic tendencies like grandiosity and haughtiness which became heightened under duress.
他还说曼宁表现出了胎儿乙醇综合征的特征、与阿斯伯格综合症相关的部分社交困难问题，以及像狂妄、傲慢这样的自恋倾向，在身不由己的情况下，这些问题变得更严重了。
Along with Captain Moulton, Private Manning’s older sister, Casey Major, and aunt, Debra Van Alstyne, testified that he had been underweight since birth because his mother drank and smoked during her pregnancy.
除了莫尔顿，曼宁的姐姐凯茜·梅杰(Casey Major)和姑姑德布拉·范阿尔斯泰恩(Debra Van Alstyne)也出庭作证，她们表示，因为他的母亲在怀孕期间喝酒、吸烟，曼宁出生后一直体重不足。
His sister, who is 11 years older, described a difficult childhood in which their alcoholic mother was largely dysfunctional and so Ms. Major largely cared for Private Manning from his birth until he was around 7, when she had a bitter dispute with their father and left home. Later their father left and their mother became suicidal. At one point Ms. Major teared up slightly while discussing photographs of their childhood.
长他11岁的姐姐说起了他们艰苦的童年，称酗酒的母亲基本上没有尽到自己的责任，因此曼宁出生后主要由梅杰照顾，直到曼宁7岁时，她在和父亲的一次激烈争吵后离开了家。后来，父亲也离家出走，而母亲变得具有自杀倾向。在谈及两人儿时照片时，梅杰曾一度眼含泪水。
Capt. Michael Worsley, a clinical psychologist who treated Private Manning in Iraq, testified that he was guarded at first in their therapy sessions, and that he thought Private Manning had some kind of personality disorder before he revealed he was struggling with his gender identity — at the time it was a still against military law to be openly gay.
曾在伊拉克治疗过曼宁的临床心理学家迈克尔·沃斯利上尉(Capt. Michael Worsley)作证称，治疗初期，曼宁还心存戒意，他在曼宁透露自己面临性别认同问题之前，认为这个士兵有着某种人格障碍。当时，公开承认自己是同性恋依然为军律所不容。
“You put him in this hypermasculine environment, if you will, with little support and few coping skills — the pressure would have been difficult to say the least,” he said. “It would have been incredible.”
“如果你把他放在这种超级阳刚的环境中，而且几乎得不到任何支持，也基本上没有应对技巧，那么这种压力会非常难以承受，”他说，“甚至无法承受。”
Ms. Van Alstyne said her nephew had joined the military over her objections because he wanted financial assistance to earn a college degree, and Captain Moulton said Private Manning was determined to try to stay through his term of enlistment lest he lose the financing.
范阿尔斯泰恩说，侄子是因为想在上大学时获得经济资助，才不顾自己的反对去参军，莫尔顿也表示，曼宁因为担心失去经济资助，才坚决地尝试待够服役时间。
Asked by Mr. Coombs if she wanted to tell the judge anything that she might take into account before passing sentence, Ms. Van Alstyne said: “I just hope that she takes into account that he had a very hard start to his life. He worked really hard. He’s a good person, he cares about people. He just thought he was doing the right thing at a time when he was really I think not thinking clearly at all.”
在被库姆斯问及希望法官在宣判前能考虑一些什么因素时，范阿尔斯泰恩说，“我只希望她能考虑到，他的人生一开始就充满艰辛。他真的很努力。他是个好人，关心他人。他当时只是自认为做得对，我觉得，他那时的思维完全不清醒。”
The court-martial will reconvene on Friday afternoon; prosecutors may make a rebuttal case. Colonel Lind could announce a sentence sometime next week.
军事法庭将于周五下午再次开庭；检方可能会进行反驳。林德上校可能会在下周择期宣判。