Around New York, boozy versions of “a spot of tea” are warming up winter drink menus this season as Manhattan mixologists blend green, black and white tea leaves with a range of spirits and wines.
纽约各地各种版本的加酒的“一杯茶”正在温暖这一季的冬季酒水单，曼哈顿的调酒师们把绿色、黑色和白色的茶叶与各种烈酒和葡萄酒混合到一起。
Inside the Refinery Hotel, Alex Ott creates a gender-neutral Speakeasy Punch, which he doles out in generous portions barside at Parker & Quinn. He begins with two ounces of warm hibiscus tea, a flavorful base that is often served cold in the summer. (When brewing this variety, Ott warns against over-steeping the leaves — 14 minutes is usually all it takes.) He then stirs in two and a quarter ounces of Bacardi 8 rum, two ounces of rye, two ounces of house-made rock-candy syrup (at home, white cranberry juice makes a good substitute) and a dash of lemon juice. For an extra dose of comfort, he serves the steaming liquid in a brandy sniffer, which doubles as a hand warmer when the drinker grasps the glass’s broad sides.
亚历克斯·奥特(Alex Ott)在精炼厂酒店(Refinery Hotel) Parker & Quinn酒吧的吧台边发放大份量的中性“私房潘趣酒”(Speakeasy Punch)。他先倒入两盎司带有香味的温木槿茶，夏季通常用的是冷木槿茶（奥特提醒说这种茶不能泡太久，一般最多泡14分钟）。然后搅入2.25盎司的巴卡第8(Bacardi 8)朗姆酒、两盎司黑麦威士忌、两盎司自制冰糖浆（你在家可以用白越橘汁代替）和一点柠檬汁。为了带来更多慰藉，他用白兰地酒杯来盛放这热气腾腾的酒水，饮酒的人可以握着宽阔的杯壁取暖。
Twenty blocks uptown at another hotel bar, the Pierre’s Two E Bar and Lounge, Sachin Hasan suggests that just about any kind of bourbon pairs well with tea. But instead of simply adding the whiskey directly to already-brewed tea and calling it a day (or, a hot toddy), he infuses it with the flavor of tea by adding a few teaspoons of loose leaves to half a bottle of bourbon, leaving it undisturbed for a few hours and then straining out the leaves. The heady, fragrant infusion that remains can be used to mix and shake a variety of drinks, hot or warm. But for his newly-minted Triple Salchow, a nod to the Sochi Winter Olympics, Hasan instead turns to vodka, which he claims is the easiest to mix with tea thanks to its colorless and mild-tasting nature. Here, he shares his recipe with those watching pre-Olympics coverage at home.
在离这里20个街区的另一个市郊酒店酒吧——皮埃尔(Pierre)的Two E Bar and Lounge酒吧里，萨钦·哈桑(Sachin Hasan)建议说任何一种波本威士忌都与茶很配。但他不是简单地把威士忌直接倒入已经泡好的茶水中就完事大吉了（啊，一杯香甜热酒），为了让威士忌充满茶香，他在半瓶波本威士忌中加入几茶匙散茶叶，放置几个小时不要搅动，然后滤除茶叶。那醉人、芳香的液体能和各种饮料混合，不管是热的还是温的。但是哈桑最新发明的“萨霍夫三周跳”(Triple Salchow)——这个名字是为了向索契冬奥会致敬——用的是伏特加，他说伏特加是最容易和茶混合的，因为它无色、味淡。下面他把它的调制方法分享给那些在家观看奥运会报道的人们。
Triple Salchow
“萨霍夫三周跳”配方：
1 teaspoon brewed spice chai tea1 teaspoon lemon curd3/4 ounce limoncello1 ounce milk4 white chocolate nibs or buttons2 ounces vodkaDash fresh-squeezed orange juiceLemon-flavored cherries for garnish (optional)
1茶匙做好的印度香料奶茶1茶匙柠檬酱3/4盎司柠檬酒1盎司牛奶4颗白巧克力豆2盎司伏特加少量鲜榨橙汁柠檬味樱桃，装饰用（可选）
1. In a small saucepan over medium-low heat, combine the tea, lemon curd, limoncello and milk, stirring until heated, about three minutes.2. Stir in the chocolate until melted.3. Cut the heat and stir in the vodka and orange juice.4. Pour into a heat-proof glass, garnish with lemon-flavored cherries and serve.
1. 在小炖锅中加入奶茶、柠檬酱、柠檬酒和牛奶，用中小火搅拌加热，约需三分钟。2. 搅入巧克力，直至融化。3. 关火，搅入伏特加和橙汁。4. 倒入耐热的玻璃杯中，用柠檬味樱桃装饰，上桌。