BANGKOK — More than two dozen people were injured in twin explosions at an antigovernment demonstration in Bangkok on Sunday, a further escalation of violence in Thailand’s protracted political crisis.
曼谷——周日，曼谷的反政府示威活动中发生了两起爆炸，共导致二十几人受伤。此事表明，泰国持续政治危机中的暴力举动出现进一步升级。
Officials with Bangkok’s emergency services said at least 28 people were wounded. The blasts, which occurred at a major intersection that protesters have blocked for the past week, followed a grenade attack on Friday that killed one protester and wounded more than 35. On Saturday, another protester was shot and seriously wounded.
曼谷应急机构的官员称，至少有28人受伤。这两起爆炸发生在被抗议者封锁了一周的一个主要交通路口；此前，周五的一次手榴弹袭击导致一名抗议者身亡，超过35人受伤。周六，另有一名抗议者中枪并严重受伤。
The daily violence has not reached the level seen during the political upheaval in 2010, when a few neighborhoods in Bangkok turned into something resembling a war zone.
2010年的政治动乱期间，曼谷的几个居民区几乎变成了战场。目前，曼谷的暴力活动还没有达到当时的水平。
But once again, weapons of war are being used on the streets of this otherwise cosmopolitan city and tourist hub, underscoring the depth and complexity of the country’s eight-year power struggle. Thailand is divided between north and south and between the supporters and the detractors of a political movement founded by Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister ousted in a 2006 military coup. His sister Yingluck Shinawatra is the current prime minister.
曼谷是一座世界性城市，也是旅游中心，这里的街头却再一次出现了战争的武器，突显了泰国持续八年的权力斗争的深度和复杂性。泰国南北差异很大，泰国前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)所创立政治运动的支持者和反对者之间也存在分歧。他信在2006年的军事政变当中遭到驱逐。他的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)是泰国现任总理。
Foreign embassies have advised their citizens to stay away from protest areas, which include the streets outside the city’s largest shopping malls, a number of major intersections in the central business district and a bridge across the Chao Phraya River that a faction of protesters is occupying.
外国使馆告诫本国公民不要靠近抗议区，这些区域包括曼谷各大型购物中心外的街道、中心商业区的一些主要路口和横跨湄南河(Chao Phraya River)的一座桥梁，这里已被一些抗议者占领。
The government and protest leaders blamed each other for the violent attacks in Bangkok, which also included explosions and shootings last week, about half of which resulted in injuries.
政府和抗议领导人相互指责对方应该对曼谷的暴力袭击负责，包括上周的爆炸和枪击事件，大约一半的爆炸和枪击事件都造成了人员受伤。
The government and its supporters say the protesters are trying to create the kind of political chaos that would lead to another coup.
政府与其支持者称，抗议者正试图创造可能引发另一场军事政变的政治混乱。
The protesters, who seek to derail the elections scheduled for Feb. 2, say the attacks show that the government has lost control and should resign and be replaced by a “people’s council” that would carry out political reforms in the country.
抗议者意图破坏计划于2月2日举行的选举，称这些袭击表明政府已经失去了对局面的控制，应该辞职下台，将权力交给一个将在泰国实施政治改革的“人民委员会”。
Despite the blasts on Sunday — and in contrast to the more funereal tone after the attack on Friday — the protesters continued a festive march through Bangkok on Sunday afternoon. As he has done for several weeks, the leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban, collected wads of donated cash and urged more Bangkok residents to join the protest movement.
尽管周日发生了爆炸，抗议者周日下午仍然继续在曼谷进行颇有节日气氛的游行，气氛与周五袭击后那种较为哀伤的基调形成了对比。抗议活动领袖素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)继续像过去几周那样收取成卷的现金捐赠，并呼吁更多曼谷居民加入抗议活动。
A television channel allied with the protesters, Blue Sky, broadcast an upbeat protest song as Rattiya Mingsakul, a reporter who narrated the segment, reported that Mr. Suthep “looks delighted as he greets the people and collects donations from the masses.”
支持抗议者的蓝天电视台(Blue Sky)播放了一首曲调欢快的抗议歌曲。跟踪抗议活动的记者拉提雅·明萨库尔(Rattiya Mingsakul)则报道称，素帖“一边问候民众，一边从民众那里收取捐赠，看上去非常开心”。
At an intersection blocked by protesters, another opposition leader, Sathit Wongnongtoey, took to a stage after reports of the explosions and urged the crowd to continue “fighting.”
发生爆炸的消息传来之后，另一名反对派领袖萨提特·翁农多延(Sathit Wongnongtoey)登上一座舞台，号召人群继续“战斗”。该舞台位于被抗议者封锁的一处十字路口。
“We have almost won,” he said. “We will definitely win.”
“我们就要胜利了，”他说，“我们一定会胜利。”
In recent days, the opposition has been encouraged by protests involving farmers in central Thailand who say they have not received payments as part of a controversial government scheme to compensate them well above market prices for their rice. The Election Commission has barred the government from paying the farmers before the elections, saying it could be interpreted as a form of vote buying.
近些天来，泰国中部农民举行的抗议活动鼓舞了反对派。根据一项有争议的政府项目的规定，农民的水稻将会得到远高于市场价格的补偿。抗议的农民称他们没有收到补偿。选举委员会(Election Commission)禁止政府在选举前向农民支付赔偿，称这么做会被解读成贿选。
The protesters in Bangkok, many of whom are from southern Thailand, say their goal is to remove Mr. Thaksin and his family from Thai politics. On Sunday, they repeated their call for Ms. Yingluck to take responsibility for the violence and step down.
曼谷的抗议者有许多都来自泰国南部。他们表示，自己的目标是将他信及其家族逐出泰国政坛。周日，他们再次敦促英拉为暴力事件负责，并要求其下台。
Mr. Thaksin’s political movement, the first in Thai history to successfully win the majority of rural voters by offering policies such as universal health care, has repeatedly defeated the party of the Bangkok establishment, the Democrats, which is boycotting the elections.
通过施行包括全民医疗保险在内的政策，他信的政党成为了泰国历史上首个成功赢得大部分农村选民支持的政党。该党多次击败曼谷精英阶层的政党民主党。民主党人正在抵制选举。
The Democrats, which are allied with the protesters, say Mr. Thaksin’s political movement is corrupt.
与抗议者结成同盟的民主党人称，他信的政党存在腐败行为。
Government supporters counter that the Democrats’ party, which has not won a general election in more than two decades, is boycotting the Feb. 2 elections because it knows it would lose.
支持政府的人士则反击称，民主党人所在的政党之所以抵制2月2日的选举，原因是它知道自己会失败。该党已有二十多年未在大选中获胜了。
As a counterpoint to the Bangkok protests, nightly candlelight vigils have been held across the country against the protesters’ efforts to sabotage the elections.
作为对曼谷抗议活动的反击，泰国各地每晚都有烛光守夜活动，意在谴责抗议者破坏选举的行动。