SA NOI, Thailand — In a weed-covered parking lot on the outskirts of Bangkok, tens of millions of dollars of never-used firefighting equipment sits decaying, punished by bouts of searing heat, monsoon rains and a flood that swamped the area two years ago.
泰国萨诺伊——这是一个位于曼谷郊区，长满野草的停车场。价值数千万美金的消防器材就躺在这里，遭受炎热和雨季暴雨的交替打击，再加上两年前这里泛滥的洪水，这些器材不断老化生锈，从未投入使用。
The equipment, bought from an Austrian unit of the American defense contractor General Dynamics, has remained idle since it was delivered seven years ago in a deal that quickly fell under suspicion because of its high price tag and a lack of competitive bidding.
这些消防器材采购自美国防务承包商通用动力公司(General Dynamics)的奥地利分支。七年前交货之后这些器材就一直闲置。而人们很快对这次采购产生疑心，因为采购价格畸高，而且招投标过程缺乏竞争。
“It’s so sad how much money is being wasted here,” said Suthep Ruengprat, the assistant manager of the company storing the trucks. “We don’t know if the engines still function, or if anything works.”
助理经理素贴·伦布拉特(Suthep Ruengprat)所在的公司负责保管这些消防车。他说，“想到有多少钱浪费在了这里，就感到很难过。我们不清楚卡车引擎是否还能发动，也不知道究竟有什么部件还能正常工作。”
From the start, the tale of Bangkok’s languishing fire trucks has been a potent symbol of dysfunctional government — and the foreigners who appeared to take advantage of it.
从一开始，曼谷这些慢慢朽坏的消防车的故事就清楚地显示出，政府无法正常运转，以及外国人如何利用这一点来占便宜。
Now, after years of judicial proceedings and investigations by Thailand’s anticorruption authorities, the Supreme Court here last month ruled that the deal, for the equivalent of about $183 million, was “massively overpriced.” It convicted two former senior Thai officials to prison terms for malfeasance and bid-rigging in the procurement of 315 fire trucks, 30 firefighting boats and other equipment bought from the General Dynamics business unit, then known as Steyr-Daimler-Puch Spezialfahrzeug.
现在，经过泰国反贪部门数年的调查和法律程序之后，泰国最高法院上月裁决，这项价值1.83亿美金的交易，“成交价格严重偏高”。法庭判决两名泰国原高级官员入狱服刑，因为他们在向通用动力公司的分支（其时，该实体的名称为“斯太尔-戴姆勒-普赫专用汽车”，Steyr-Daimler-Puch Spezialfahrzeug）采购了315辆消防车，30条消防艇和其他设备的过程中，出现渎职情况，并在招投标方面恶意串通。
Yet justice remains elusive, Thai officials say. Both convicted men, a former chief firefighter and a former deputy interior minister, have fled the country, according to the Thai news media.
但是泰国官员表示，正义还未实现。根据泰国新闻媒体的报道，这两个被判刑的犯人都已逃到国外。其中一人是前任消防部门负责人，另一位是前任内政部副部长。
Also absent on the day of the verdict — and during the trial — was Steyr, which was listed as a defendant but closed its office in Thailand in 2008 after the investigation started. The case against the company was suspended after it left the country.
判决当天缺席的还有被列为被告的斯太尔公司。在整个审理过程中该公司都没有出席。2008年，调查伊始，该公司就关掉了其泰国办公室。该公司撤离泰国之后，针对它的案件即告中止。
In addition, Thai officials say, they were unable to conduct a credible investigation into the unspoken question in the case: Did bribery grease the deal? To do so, they say, they would have needed help from the Austrian government and General Dynamics, which they say they never got.
泰国官员还表示，对于一个本案中尚未提到的问题，他们没办法作出有公信力的调查：即采购交易背后是否存在贿赂？官员表示，要调查清楚这一点，他们就需要得到奥地利政府和通用动力公司的配合，但是他们并没有得到这方面的协助。
While the case dragged on, Bangkok decided it could not use its expensive new equipment because it feared that putting the trucks into service would legitimize the purchase and possibly affect the outcome of investigations.
因为案件没有获得进展，曼谷方面决定，这些昂贵的新设备不能投入使用。他们担忧，一旦投入使用，就会将此次采购合法化，甚至可能会影响调查的最终结果。
The Austrian government did not respond to repeated requests for comment sent to the embassy in Bangkok. General Dynamics says it cooperated with the authorities but has declined to discuss the case in depth because it is in the middle of arbitration over a financial settlement with Bangkok.
虽然记者多次请求奥地利驻泰国大使馆对此事加以评论，但是奥地利政府并没有做出回应。通用动力公司则表示，他们曾配合政府调查，但是不愿意深入讨论本案，因为该公司已经和曼谷方面进入仲裁程序，以寻求财务上的和解。
In its decision last month, the Supreme Court said the deal that brought the trucks to Bangkok “originated” in 2003 with a letter from the Austrian ambassador to Thailand, on behalf of Steyr. The court ruled that the deal was falsely portrayed by Austrian and Thai officials as a government-to-government sale, in that way allowing Steyr to avoid a competitive bidding process. (The company has since changed its name to General Dynamics European Land Systems-Steyr.)
在上个月的判决中，泰国最高法院认定，这笔将消防车进口到曼谷来的采购交易，“由头”是2003年奥地利驻泰国大使代表斯太尔公司写的一封信。法院判决，奥地利和泰国官员虚假地将此次交易描述成政府间采购，为此，斯太尔公司得以避开存在竞争的竞标过程。（在此之后，这家公司更名为通用动力欧洲陆地系统-斯太尔，General Dynamics European Land Systems-Steyr。）
The National Anticorruption Commission in Thailand described Steyr as “liable” in the case because it “facilitated government officials in committing the offenses.” The commission ordered the deal canceled in 2008 after completing an investigation.
泰国国家反腐败委员会(The National Anticorruption Commission in Thailand)认为斯太尔公司在本案中“负有责任”，因为该公司“在政府官员的犯罪过程中予以协助”。2008年调查终结后，国家反腐败委员会裁定该笔采购交易作废。
Nitiphan Prachuabmoh, a director of the international division of the commission, said he had spent four years trying to engage the Austrian authorities. “We got no result,” Mr. Nitiphan said. “It’s their jurisdiction, and we can’t do much.”
尼特潘·巴琢磨(Nitiphan Prachuabmoh)是国家反腐败委员会国际处处长，他说他花费了四年时间想要跟奥地利政府取得联系。他说，“但最终无果。这是他们法律管辖的范围，我们能做的不多。”
Mr. Nitiphan said he had also been in touch with the American authorities and had raised the case with the antibribery committee at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, of which both Austria and the United States are members. He said he hoped that the Supreme Court verdict would spur an investigation.
尼特潘说，他也跟美国政府进行了接触，并且在经济合作与发展组织反贿赂委员会(the antibribery committee at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)上提交了本案。奥地利和美国都是经合组织的成员国。他说，他希望泰国最高法院的判决能够为新的调查带来动力。
A spokesman for the United States Department of Justice, which would oversee investigations of possible corruption by American companies and subsidiaries overseas, responded to a query in an e-mail saying the department does not generally confirm or deny whether a matter is under investigation.
负责对美国公司及其海外分支可能存在的腐败行为进行调查的是美国司法部。其发言人在回复质询邮件时表示，按照一般惯例，司法部不会确认或者否定某项调查是否已经启动。
Sungsidh Piriyarangsan, one of the leading experts in Thailand on corruption who has closely followed the case, said the deal followed a pattern of grossly overpriced contracts.
颂猜·皮里雅琅诵(Sungsidh Piriyarangsan)是泰国反腐败领域的权威，对本案保持了密切的关注。他说，本案与畸高定价合同的模式非常相似。
“This is a type of corruption that we have seen many times,” Mr. Sungsidh said. “They closed off competition.”
颂猜说，“这类的腐败案例我们见过很多次。这些人就是要逃避竞争。”
“You won’t find evidence of the bribe, but everyone assumes there must have been payoffs,” he added. “If you want a project like that, you need to pay for it.”
他还说，“你肯定找不到行贿的证据，但是大家都知道背后肯定有好处。如果你想要得到这样的订单，你就必须出钱。”
After a visit to its offices by the governor of Bangkok, General Dynamics in 2011 offered a rebate of about 10 percent of the value of the deal. Thai government officials countered that they wanted the entire deal scrapped, and the full amount reimbursed. Financial aspects of the deal are now under arbitration in Geneva.
2011年，通用动力公司接待了来访的曼谷市长，之后提出返还整个交易金额的10%。泰国政府官员则要求将这笔交易作废，且全额返还交易金额。该笔交易的财务争议正在日内瓦接受仲裁。
The arbitration process does not cover possible criminal aspects of the case.
仲裁程序不涉及本案中的任何刑事问题。
Meanwhile, the costs for Bangkok keep mounting.
与此同时，曼谷方面的损失正不断扩大。
As a result of the legal battles, the municipality calculates that it owes storage fees for the equipment as well as accumulated taxes and customs duties amounting to more than $80 million.
因为选择走法律程序，曼谷市政府统计出超过8000万美金的相关费用，包括尚未缴付的器材保管费，以及累积的税费和关税等。