BANGKOK — The Thai authorities on Tuesday said they were pursuing a man captured on video before the bombing of a religious shrine in Bangkok the previous night, an attack that killed at least 20 people, many of them tourists.
曼谷——泰国当局周二说，他们正在寻找一名男子，该人在周一晚间曼谷宗教圣地发生爆炸前被监控录像拍摄下来，爆炸导致至少20人死亡，其中很多是游客。
Security footage showed the man at the Erawan Shrine taking off his backpack and leaving it under a bench. The footage and other images, which were widely shared on social media, showed the man wearing a bright yellow shirt.
监控录像显示，该男子在四面佛寺里把背包摘下来、放到一个椅子下面。这段在社交媒体上广泛流传的录像和其他图片显示，该男子身穿鲜黄色的上衣。
“It is quite clear that he is the perpetrator in this case,” said Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri, a spokesman for the Thai national police.
泰国国家警察局发言人巴武·塔翁西里中将(Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri)说，“很显然，他是这一袭击案的肇事者。”
The police described the man as a potential suspect based on analysis of more than a dozen security cameras in the area. “He left the crime scene by a motorcycle taxi,” General Prawut said.
泰国警方分析了来自爆炸现场的十几个监控摄像头的录像后，将该男子描述为可能的犯罪嫌疑人。巴武说，“该男子乘坐摩托出租车离开了犯罪现场。”
Prayut Chao-ocha, the head of Thailand’s military junta, said the blast could have been perpetrated by groups based inside or outside the country.
泰国军政府负责人巴育·詹欧差(Prayut Chao-ocha)说，制造爆炸的团伙可能来自境内，也可能来自国外。
“There are individuals or a group of people in our country who have ill will to the country,” he said. “This is a movement that probably wishes for political gain, and to destroy the economy, destroy tourism, among other things.”
“有些国内的个人或团伙对这个国家怀有敌意，”他说。“这是一场运动，可能是为某种政治利益，同时也达到破坏经济、破坏旅游等其他目的。”
Among the dead were five Thais, two Malaysians, two mainland Chinese, two Hong Kong Chinese and a Singaporean. The police said that arriving at a precise death toll was difficult because bodies had been dismembered by the blast.
被炸死的人中有五名泰国人、两名马来西亚人、两名中国大陆人、两名中国香港人，以及一名新加坡人。警方说，目前很难给出准确的死亡人数，因为遗体被炸得四分五裂。
With the city already on edge after the attack on Monday, video circulated on social media Tuesday of another explosion, under a Bangkok bridge. No injuries were reported, but the authorities said they were searching for links to the shrine explosion.
曼谷由于周一的爆炸事件已处于紧张气氛之中，而社交媒体网站周二又传出一个视频，称曼谷一座桥下发生了另一次爆炸。虽然尚无人员伤亡的报道，但当局表示，他们正在寻找第二次的爆炸与佛寺爆炸之间的联系。
The search for a perpetrator in the attack has partly been tainted by the country’s poisonous political divides. After a decade of political turmoil that has turned Thailand’s public institutions into factions warring for supremacy, what theories and information officials did offer were being met with skepticism.
寻找袭击事件肇事者的工作已受到泰国国内恶性政治分歧的影响。十年的政治动荡已把泰国的公共制度变成各个政治派别争夺统治权的工具，这使得公众对官方提供的有关爆炸的任何说法和信息都持怀疑态度。
Hours after the blast on Monday evening, which also left more than 100 people wounded, senior officials of the military junta that seized power last year ruled out any connection to the continuing Muslim insurgency in southern Thailand. The head of the Thai Army, Gen. Udomdej Sitabutr, said the type of bombing and the way it was carried out made any link to that conflict unlikely.
周一晚间发生的爆炸还导致了100多人受伤，爆炸发生仅几个小时之后，去年夺得政权的军政府的高级官员就表示，爆炸与持续于泰国南部的穆斯林叛乱没有任何联系。泰国军队领导人武东德·西达布上将(Gen. Udomdej Sitabutr)说，这次爆炸用的炸药类型、以及制造爆炸的方式，不太可能让其与泰国南部的冲突之间有任何关系。
Officials also strongly suggested that elements allied with Thaksin Shinawatra, the ousted prime minister who is a political lightning rod in Thailand, were probably behind the blast.
泰国官员们还强烈暗示，爆炸事件的背后可能是与被推翻的泰国前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)结盟的团伙，他信在泰国仍是转移问题的政治借口。
The rapid assertions followed a pattern of blame-pointing that has persisted here as the country’s politics have grown ever more dysfunctional over the years. Faith in Thailand’s institutions has become a casualty of its political wars, legal analysts said.
这种快速下结论的做法，随着泰国政治近年来变得越来越机能失调，已成为指责的一种模式。法律分析人士说，人们对泰国制度的信任已沦为其政治斗争的牺牲品。
“There is huge cynicism because there is an absolute politicization of Thailand’s major institutions,” said Sam Zarifi, the director of Asia-Pacific operations at the International Commission of Jurists, a human rights group. “Every institution is politicized: the military, the police, the courts. There is no trusted arbiter anymore.”
“泰国存在着一种巨大的玩世不恭，因为泰国的主要制度已被绝对政治化了，”人权组织国际法学家委员会(International Commission of Jurists)的亚太地区总监萨姆·扎里菲(Sam Zarifi)说。“所有的制度都政治化了：军队、警察、法院。值得信任的仲裁者已不复存在。”
The government’s spokesman, Maj. Gen. Sansern Kaewkamnerd, said several hours after the blast on Monday evening that the bombing “was probably conducted by the same group of people who lost privileges and who want to create disturbance in the country.” His comments were widely seen as referring to supporters of Mr. Thaksin, whose political movement was ousted in the coup last year.
政府发言人讪森·格乌坎内少将(Maj. Gen. Sansern Kaewkamnerd)在周一爆炸发生几小时之后说，爆炸“可能是那些丢掉了特权、想在国内制造混乱的同一伙人干的。”人们普遍认为，讪森指的是他信的支持者，他信的政治运动被去年的政变平息。
Nattawut Saikua, one of the leaders of a political faction allied with Mr. Thaksin, said Tuesday that the government’s accusation “not only affects the credibility of the government agencies but also creates mistrust among the people.”
纳塔乌·塞戈(Nattawut Saikua)是与他信结盟的一个政治派别的领导人，他在周二表示，政府的指责“不仅影响政府部门的公信力，而且会在人民群众中产生不信任感。”
“The Thai people absolutely want to know the truth as soon as possible as to who was the vicious person who conducted such crime,” Mr. Nattawut, a leader of a movement known as the red shirts, posted on Facebook on Tuesday. “But it must come together with the reliable evidence.”
纳塔乌是被称为“红杉军”的运动的领导人，他周二在Facebook上发贴写道，“泰国人民绝对有必要尽快知道事情的真相，是哪个凶残的人制造了这一罪行。但有关肇事者的结论必须有可靠的证据支持。”
Among other theories for the blast being discussed in the Thai news media on Tuesday were that it was a revenge attack for Thailand’s repatriation of ethnic Uighurs to China in July. The blast also came a day after the country’s crown prince, Maha Vajiralongkorn, hosted a large and very public bicycle procession through Bangkok in honor of his mother. Public disenchantment with the monarchy was once rare, but it has become more common in recent years, and large numbers of Thais have been imprisoned under the country’s harsh lèse-majesté laws for insulting the king, queen and crown prince.
周二在泰国新闻媒体上讨论的各种有关爆炸的理论包括，那是对泰国今年7月将维吾尔族人遣返中国的报复。爆炸发生的前一天，泰国王储哇集拉隆功(Maha Vajiralongkorn)还以母亲的名义，在曼谷举办了一个大型的、非常公开的自行车游行。公众对泰国王室表示失望曾是极为罕见的事情，但近年来已变得颇为普遍，而且，在泰国严厉的冒犯君主法律之下，许多泰国人因被判犯有诋毁国王、王后和王储罪而受到监禁。
After police investigators worked into the night on Monday, cleaning crews arrived after daybreak to scrub blood from the pavement around the Erawan Shrine. The powerful explosion had torn through worshipers at the shrine and a rush-hour crowd on the sidewalk. As of midday, the bloodstains, some of which reached the second story of a shopping mall, remained as a reminder of the blast’s power.
警方调查人员周一的工作在深夜结束之后，清洁工在天亮前已来到爆炸现场，清洗四面佛寺周围道路上的血迹。炸药在前来佛寺朝拜的人群、以及高峰期走在人行道上的人群中剧烈爆炸。到周二中午时，仍可以看到一些血迹，包括溅到了一座商场二层楼上的血迹，提醒着人们爆炸的威力。
Expressions of concern and sorrow poured into Thailand after the blast. The Rev. Joe Maier, a Catholic priest who runs Mercy Center, a foundation for children in a large Bangkok slum, wrote an email to the foundation’s supporters saying that all of the street children that the center supports were accounted for and unharmed.
爆炸发生后，很多人向泰国发出关切和哀伤的表达。天主教牧师乔·迈尔(Rev. Joe Maier)在曼谷的大贫民窟里管理着一家儿童基金会的慈悲中心(Mercy Center)，他在给这家儿童基金会的支持者写的电子邮件中说，中心帮助的所有流浪儿童都找到了，无人受伤。