A young Syrian boy who captured the world’s attention last year when images of his blood- and dust-covered face spread across the internet has re-emerged this week — in interviews on news outlets with ties to the Syrian government.
去年，一个叙利亚小男孩满脸血迹和灰尘的照片在互联网传播，吸引了全世界的关注。本周他再次露面——出现在与叙利亚政府有联系的新闻媒体的采访中。
The boy, Omran Daqneesh, came to symbolize the plight of civilians besieged by government forces in eastern Aleppo when his family’s home was bombed in August and local activists shared photos and video of the frightened Omran on social media.
这个小男孩名叫奥姆兰·达克尼什(Omran Daqneesh)，去年8月，他在阿勒颇东部的家被炸毁的时候，当地的活动人士在社交媒体上分享了他受到惊吓的照片和视频，这让奥姆兰成为了平民在政府部队围城行动中陷入困境的象征。
Now, he and his family have appeared in a series of televised interviews on news channels supportive of President Bashar Assad, apparently part of a calculated public relations campaign by the Syrian government.
现在，他和他的家人出现在一些支持巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)总统的新闻频道的一系列采访中，这显然是叙利亚政府精心策划的公关活动的一部分。
These are the first images of Omran — his cheeks pudgier, his face cleaner — that have been broadcast since he was rescued by volunteer emergency workers. At the time, his family had refused to speak to the news media.
这是奥姆兰被应急志愿者救出——当时他的家人拒绝和新闻媒体交谈——拍摄那张著名照片之后第一次出现在镜头前，现在他的脸长胖了，也干净了。
The latest interviews appear on outlets that favor the Syrian government: Russian-, Iranian- and Lebanese-run state television, and on Syrian channels that have backed Assad in his six-year war against opposition forces.
一些亲叙利亚政府的媒体播出了这些最新采访：包括俄罗斯、伊朗和黎巴嫩的国家电视台，以及在阿萨德和反对派武装这六年的战争中支持前者的叙利亚媒体。
In an interview with the Russian outlet Ruptly, Omran turns to the camera and tells the interviewer hesitantly, “I am Omran Daqneesh. I am 4 years old.”
在接受俄罗斯全球视频新闻社(Ruptly)采访时，奥姆兰把头转向摄像机，犹犹豫豫地对采访者说，“我是奥姆兰·达克尼什。我4岁。”
Initial information from activists in Syria had indicated Omran was 5 at the time of the attack, illustrating how difficult it has been to verify the facts of his story.
叙利亚活动人士最初的资料显示，袭击发生时，奥姆兰是5岁，这表明验证他的故事是否属实有多么困难。
Omran’s father, Mohamad Kheir Daqneesh, said in an interview on Iranian state TV that he feared for his son’s safety after the first images spread across the internet.
奥姆兰的父亲穆罕默德·海尔·达克尼什(Mohamad Kheir Daqneesh)在接受伊朗国家电视台采访时表示，儿子的第一张照片在互联网上传播开后，他对儿子的安全非常担心。
“I changed Omran’s name so no one will know him, and I changed his haircut, so no one will film him or recognize him,” Daqneesh told Hosein Mortada, a journalist with Iran’s Al-Alam News.
“我给奥姆兰改了名字，这样就不会有人知道是他了，我还改变了他的发型，这样就没有人会给他照相或认出他来了，”达克尼什对伊朗Al-Alam新闻台的记者侯赛因·穆尔塔达(Hosein Mortada)说。
In the clip, Omran’s once shaggy hair is cropped.
在视频中，奥姆兰曾经乱蓬蓬的头发剪短了。
After the Syrian civil war began in 2011, the Daqneesh family stayed in eastern Aleppo despite an intensifying government siege to rid the area of opposition fighters, leading some to assume that the family supported the rebels.
在2011年叙利亚内战点燃之后，这家人一直都居住在阿勒颇东部——尽管政府军为了清除反对派武装加强了对该地区的围困，所以一些人认为他们支持叛乱分子。
But many families stayed in the divided city to protect their property.
但是，有很多家庭留在这座分裂的城市中，想要保护自己的财产。
“I stayed in Syria. This is my country, where I grew up and lived and my children will grow up in it,” Daqneesh said in another interview that was broadcast Monday. He also criticized the opposition fighting to oust Assad. “They are the ones who hurt us and our country and displaced the people,” he said.
“我留在叙利亚。这是我的国家，我长大和生活的地方，我的孩子们也将在这里长大。”达克尼什在周一播出的另一个采访中说。他还批评反对派为推翻阿萨德而打仗的行为。“他们才是伤害我们和我们国家，让人们流离失所的人，”他说。
Syrians appearing on state television or on channels associated with the Assad government are not able to speak freely. The government exerts tight control over all information broadcast about the war, including interviews with civilians.
在国家电视台，或在和阿萨德政府有关的媒体上出现的叙利亚人，他们无法自由发表言论。政府对所有和战争有关的信息都进行了严密的控制，其中包括对平民的采访。
Speaking to a pro-government news outlet in Aleppo, Daqneesh recounted the night of the attack, which left one of his sons, 10-year-old Ali, dead.
在阿勒颇，达克尼什对一个亲政府新闻媒体讲述了在袭击发生的那天晚上，他10岁的儿子阿里(Ali)丧生的事情。
The sudden nature of the “strike” — as Daqneesh called it — left him scrambling to rescue his children. He said he first found Omran and carried him to safety before returning to search for his other children and his wife.
按达克尼什的说法——“打击”发生得很突然，他在匆忙之中想救孩子。他说自己先找到了奥姆兰，带他去了安全的地方，然后再返回寻找妻子和其他孩子。
Daqneesh did not say who was behind the attack, but he said he did not hear planes overhead before his house was shaken. This contradicts accounts from emergency medical workers and local journalists who at the time reported Syrian government or Russian airstrikes.
达克尼什没有说这次袭击是谁发动的，但他表示，在他的房屋晃动之前，并没有听到天上有飞机在飞。这与急救医务人员和当地记者的说法相矛盾，他们当时说是叙利亚政府或俄罗斯发动了空袭。
Volunteer emergency responders, known as the White Helmets, arrived shortly after the home was hit and helped evacuate the family, Daqneesh said.
达克尼什说，在他家被击中之后不久，被称为“白头盔”(White Helmets)应急志愿者就赶到了，帮助他营救家人。
“They took Omran, got him to the ambulance, where they filmed him,” Daqneesh said. “It was against my will. I was still upstairs in the house.”
“他们带走奥姆兰，把他送上救护车，在那里给他摄了像，”达基涅什说。“这违背了我的意愿。我当时还在房子的楼上。”
Daqneesh said he was pressured by opposition activists after Omran was released from the hospital to “talk against the Syrian regime and the state,” adding that he had been offered money to do so, which he refused.
达克尼什说，奥姆兰出院之后，反对派活动人士给他施压，要他“抹黑叙利亚政权和国家”，他们愿意出钱让他这么做，但他拒绝了。
Supporters of the government and opposition activists have been quick to accuse each other of using Omran to further their own agenda.
政府支持者和反对派活动者很快就互相指责说，对方在利用奥姆兰进一步推动自己的议程。
Last year, after the images of Omran galvanized international attention around the plight of besieged civilians in Aleppo, Assad told Swiss television he thought the whole incident was a hoax — “part of the publicity of those White Helmets.”
去年，奥姆兰的照片引起了国际社会对平民在阿勒颇围城中所处困境的关注之后，阿萨德对瑞士电视台表示，他认为整个事件是一场骗局——“白头盔的一个宣传活动”。
“This is a forged picture, not a real one,” Assad said at the time.
“这是伪造的照片，不是真的，”阿萨德当时说。
Now, Assad is using Omran and his family, who are living in an area controlled by government forces, to endorse his view of the war and discredit the opposition.
现在，阿萨德却正在利用奥姆兰和他的家人来支持他对战争的看法，抹黑反对派。这家人目前住在一个由政府部队控制的地区。
In several of the interviews broadcast this week, Daqneesh claimed it was the rebels who had tried to intimidate him.
在本周播放的几次访谈中，达克尼什声称试图恐吓他的是叛军。
“They wanted to use his photo and use him,” Daqneesh said, adding that armed men also threatened to kidnap Omran.
“他们想利用他的照片，利用他，”达克尼什说。他还表示，武装人员还威胁要绑架奥姆兰。
A prominent opposition activist, Abdelkafi al-Hamdo, who fled Aleppo in December, said he had heard reports that Omran’s father was recently contacted by Musa Omar, a pro-opposition journalist, who offered donations and asked if Omran could be on camera.
知名反对派活动人士阿卜德尔卡菲·艾尔-哈姆多(Abdelkafi al-Hamdo)在12月份逃离阿勒颇时表示，他听到有报道说，一位亲反对派记者穆萨·奥马尔(Musa Omar)近期接触过奥姆兰的父亲，表示愿意提供捐款，并问奥姆兰是否可以出镜。
“Omran’s father said, ‘No, I don’t need the money and I don’t want my child to be on cameras,'” Hamdo said in a WhatsApp group message. “But can Omran’s father say no to the regime?”
“奥姆兰的父亲说：‘不，我不需要钱，我不想让孩子出镜，’哈姆多在一个WhatsApp群组消息中说。但是，奥姆兰的父亲可以对政权说不吗？”