With artists like Cindy Sherman, Julian Schnabel and Jeff Koons making big waves, the 1980s were an explosively creative time for art. It was a fractious period, too, as artists and critics espoused or decried neo-Marxist theories as the art market boomed.
二十世纪八十年代是个艺术创造力爆发的年代，辛迪·舍曼(Cindy Sherman)、朱利安·施纳贝尔(Julian Schnabel)和杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)等艺术家掀起了一股股浪潮。那也是个难以驾驭的年代，因为在艺术市场蓬勃发展之际，艺术家和批评家们也在支持或反对新马克思主义。
Lots of less famous artists had supporting roles in the tumultuous drama of New York art back then. “Tseng Kwong Chi: Performing for the Camera,” an entertaining and edifying exhibition at the Grey Art Gallery, surveys the brief but prolific 10-year career of one of the decade’s more scintillating but lesser-known players. Presenting more than 80 photo-based pieces, the show was organized by Amy Brandt, curator of modern and contemporary Art at the Chrysler Museum in Norfolk, Va., where it will be shown in August.
很多不太出名的艺术家在当时混乱的纽约艺术界扮演着配角。曾广智是那个时代更有才华但不太出名的艺术家之一。格雷艺术馆(Grey Art Gallery)有趣且有教育意义的“曾广智：为相机表演”展(Tseng Kwong Chi: Performing for the Camera)探究了这位艺术家短暂而多产的十年。这场展览展出了80多件以照片为基础的作品，策展人是弗吉尼亚州诺福克市克莱斯勒博物馆(Chrysler Museum)的现当代艺术策展人埃米·勃兰特(Amy Brandt)。8月份，这场展览将移至克莱斯勒博物馆展出。
In 1979 Tseng Kwong Chi began to create his most memorable works: two photographic series, “East Meets West” and its follow-up, “Expeditionary Series,” in which he appeared in dark glasses and a Zhongshan suit, the uniform favored by Mao Zedong. Thus outfitted, he posed in front of famous monuments like Mount Rushmore and the Eiffel Tower and natural wonders like Niagara Falls and the Canadian Rockies.
1979年，曾广智开始创作他最令人难忘的两个系列摄影作品：《东方遇见西方》(East Meets West)及后续的《长征系列》(Expeditionary Series)。在这些照片中，他戴着墨镜，穿着毛泽东很喜欢的中山装，在拉什莫尔峰和埃菲尔铁塔等著名纪念物以及尼亚加拉大瀑布和加拿大落基山等自然景观前留影。
In these darkly comical images, rendered as square poster-size black-and-white prints, Tseng has an enigmatic, vaguely disquieting presence. He might be a spy on an intelligence-gathering mission or an extraterrestrial explorer who has assumed an awkwardly human form. When he’s seen far away in the midst of mountainous landscapes in pictures shot by assistants, he resembles a romantic wanderer in a Caspar David Friedrich painting.
这些阴郁滑稽的照片冲洗成正方形黑白明信片的样子。曾广智在照片中显得高深莫测，隐隐令人不安。他可能是执行情报收集任务的间谍，或者笨拙地装扮成人类模样的天外来客。这些照片是他的助手拍摄的，从远处看，在庞大的背景前，他像卡斯帕·大卫·弗里德里希(Caspar David Friedrich)油画中诡异的漫游者。
In real life, Tseng was far from the mysterious alien he seemed to be in those pictures. Born in Hong Kong in 1950, he moved with his family to Vancouver, British Columbia, at 16. In his 20s he went to Paris to study painting and photography. Moving to Manhattan in 1978, he took up with the city’s downtown bohemian crowd, hobnobbing with young upstarts like Keith Haring, Kenny Scharf, Madonna and Jean-Michel Basquiat. Large, beautifully made portraits of these and other rising stars in their studios and their chic habitats — including the scene’s éminence grise, Andy Warhol — are included in the Grey exhibition.
曾广智在现实生活中绝不像在那些照片中那样一副神秘外星人的样子。1950年，他出生于香港，16岁时随家人搬到不列颠哥伦比亚省温哥华市。20多岁时，他到巴黎学习油画和摄影。1978年搬到曼哈顿后，他开始与纽约下城区的波西米亚人来往，与基思·哈林(Keith Haring)、肯尼·沙夫(Kenny Scharf)、麦当娜(Madonna)和让-米歇尔·巴斯奇亚(Jean-Michel Basquiat)等年轻新秀交往甚密。曾广智在这些人及其他艺术新秀的工作室或时髦住所里为他们拍摄大幅精美肖像，包括艺术界的灰衣主教安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)。这些肖像照也在本次展览中展出。
Tseng regularly documented Haring surreptitiously drawing his white-chalk cartoon allegories on blacked-out signboards in New York subway stations; he also made photographs of the dancer Bill T. Jones, naked but for patterns painted by Haring all over his body. Because of Haring’s celebrity, these became widely known to people who had never heard of Tseng.
曾广智经常拍摄哈林在纽约地铁站熄灯广告牌上偷画白粉笔卡通寓意画的情景。他还为舞蹈家比尔·T·琼斯(Bill T. Jones)拍摄照片，照片中的琼斯赤身裸体，不过哈林在他身上画满了图案。因为哈林的名气，很多从未听说过曾广智的人也看到了这些照片。
Though he didn’t rise to superstardom (he died of AIDS in 1990 at 39), Tseng’s works were reproduced and internationally disseminated in art magazines. They helped to spread a new, distinctively postmodernist sensibility whose main feature was a hyper-sophisticated focus on visual semiotics. In “East Meets West” and “The Expeditionary Series,” the arresting interest is in the convergence and clash of diverse signifiers.
虽然曾广智没有成为大明星（1990年他39岁时死于艾滋病），不过，他的作品被很多艺术杂志复制并在全球传播。它们帮助散播了一种鲜明的后现代主义新情感，它的主要特征是对视觉符号学极为复杂的关注。《东方遇见西方》和《长征系列》最吸引人的地方在于不同标志物的汇聚和碰撞。
No doubt Tseng was dealing with his own complicated feelings about being a Westernized Chinese gay man. Donning his Mao suit and dark glasses, he turned himself into the satirical embodiment of the stereotypical inscrutable Asian Other. But his pictures don’t seem personally expressive. Rather, his vision of the Chinese Communist emissary touring popularly sacred Western sites prompts thoughts about vast national collectives and global histories that enmesh and dwarf individuals and all too often set different groups against one another. Tseng may be viewed as an early practitioner of identity politics, but in his shape-shifting way, he tended more toward an insouciant skepticism about fixed identities.
毋庸置疑，当时，曾广智正在处理对自己西方化华裔同性恋身份的复杂情绪。他穿上中山装，戴上墨镜，把自己变成神秘亚洲异类固有形象的讽刺化身。不过，他的照片似乎不是为了表达个人感情。他所展现的中共间谍周游西方著名文化圣地的形象引发人们对宏大的国家集团和全球历史的思考，个人被卷入其中，变得微不足道，出现了太多相互对立的集团。曾广智也许被视为身份政治的早期实践者，不过他通过改变形象的方式，更多地是表达对固定身份漫不经心的怀疑。
He was blessed with a larky spirit. In 1980, wearing his Mao suit, he crashed a $300-per-ticket reception for an exhibition of Qing dynasty costumes at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. An assistant shot him posing with celebrities like Paloma Picasso, Henry Kissinger and Yves Saint Laurent, who either took him for a visiting Chinese dignitary or didn’t know what to make of him. (He sported a seemingly official but uninformative name tag in a plastic envelope pinned to his chest, with a head shot of himself and the words “Visitor/Visiteur” stamped on it.) Images from “Lifeguard Ball” (1981) show a Mao-suited Tseng frolicking with beefy young men at a lifeguards’ party in Wildwood, N.J.
他天生具有玩闹精神。1980年，他穿着中山装，闯入大都会艺术博物馆的清代服装展览招待会上，那次招待会的门票是300美元。一位助手拍摄了他和帕洛玛·毕加索(Paloma Picasso)、亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)以及伊夫·圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)等名人的合影，他们要么把他当成来访的中国要员，要么不知道该如何对待他（他在胸前别了一个看似正式但没有具体信息的塑料包装胸牌，上面有他的大头照，还有英法两种语言的“访客”字样）。《救生员舞会》(Lifeguard Ball, 1981)系列作品中展现的是身穿中山装的曾广智在新泽西州怀尔德伍德的一个救生员派对上与健壮年轻男人玩闹的情景。
For a series called “Moral Majority” (1981), Tseng traveled to Washington, where he persuaded conservative luminaries like Jerry Falwell, Alfonse D’Amato and William F. Buckley Jr. to pose for the camera before the backdrop of a large, profusely wrinkled American flag stapled to a rigid panel. For that project, Tseng wore a seersucker suit, the preppy uniform of a young Republican. Remarkably, these images aren’t obviously satirical; the portraits are dignified, and the wrinkled flag doesn’t necessarily read as a critique. In some images the artist appears, genially smiling along with his subject. He’s a slyly charming predecessor of Sacha Baron Cohen’s wily fool Borat.
1981年，曾广智跑到华盛顿，劝杰里·福尔韦尔(Jerry Falwell)、阿方斯·达马托(Alfonse D’Amato)和小威廉·F·巴克利(William F. Buckley Jr.)等保守派政治明星在大幅美国国旗前照相——国旗钉在硬木板上，有很多褶皱——从而创作出《道德多数派》(Moral Majority)系列作品。曾广智穿着泡泡纱西服，那是年轻共和党人的标志性服装。出乎意料的是，这些照片并没有明显的讽刺色彩。它们很庄重，那面充满褶皱的国旗也不一定要解读为批判。曾广智出现在其中一些照片中，和拍摄对象一起亲切地微笑。他像是萨夏·巴伦·科恩(Sacha Baron Cohen)的《波拉特》(Borat)中那个狡猾傻瓜的前辈，不过他的狡猾很是迷人。