Robben Island in South Africa is getting to be notorious again — and this time it’s not for racial oppression.
南非罗本岛的名声再次开始变得越来越坏，但这次不是因为种族压迫。
The apartheid-era prison on the island is now a tourist attraction, where visitors from around the world pause with reverence outside the cell where Nelson Mandela was kept. The ferry ride back to the mainland merely deepens the sense of isolation that the inmates must have felt.
种族隔离时代岛上的一个监狱现在是一个旅游景点，来自世界各地的游客们怀着崇敬的心情在曾经关押曼德拉的狱室前短暂停留。从岛上返回大陆乘坐的轮渡，只会加深犯人一定会感受到的与世隔绝的氛围。
But the waters surrounding Robben Island, just off the coast near Cape Town, also happen to be among the richest in the world for delicious shellfish — especially abalone, which is highly prized in Asia. That has made the island a hot spot for shellfish poaching.
但是，离开普敦海岸不远的罗本岛周围的水域，也正好是世界上最盛产美味贝类的地方，尤其是亚洲认为非常珍贵的鲍鱼。这使罗本岛成为一个贝类偷猎的热点。
At night, when the island is closed to tourists, poachers in inflatable boats known as rubber ducks often make their way toward its rocky coastline and dive illegally in the shallows in search of the mollusks.
每天晚上，当罗本岛对游客关门之后，偷猎者往往乘着被称为橡皮鸭的充气艇，来到该岛岩石嶙嶙的海岸线，在那里非法潜入不很深的水中，搜索软体动物。
One night in May, the authorities were tipped off to a poaching excursion and went on watch. Around 4 a.m., a boat was spotted pulling into a harbor with its lights turned off — a dead giveaway. Officials from a special police task force and the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries stood ready.
今年5月的一个晚上，当局得到有人要去偷猎的报案，派了人前去查看。大约凌晨4点时，一艘船向港口开来，但没有打灯，这让该船的目的暴露无疑。来自一个处理特殊案件组的警察、以及来自农林渔业部门的官员已严阵以待。
But the poachers saw the law enforcement boats and sped off, eventually abandoning their vessel and vanishing on shore. The authorities seized 2,858 pieces of abalone worth $68,400.
但是，偷猎者看到了执法船只后便飞驰而去，这些人最终放弃自己的船，消失在海岸上。当局查获了价值6.84万美元的2858个鲍鱼。
Abalone can be found along much of South Africa’s coast, but their numbers have been declining rapidly because of overfishing and poaching. Commercial catches are now severely restricted, and recreational fishing for abalone has been banned for more than a decade. But demand from Asia remains strong, fueling the illegal harvest.
鲍鱼在南非沿海许多地方都有，但是由于过度捕捞和偷猎，它们的数量在急剧下降。目前，商业捕捞量已受到严格的限制，以休闲为目的的鲍鱼打捞也已被禁止了十多年。但是，来自亚洲的需求持续走强，导致非法捕捞激增。
Abalone grow slowly, taking seven years to reach sexual maturity and one or two more to reach the minimum size to be taken legally. That way, they ought to get at least a little time to reproduce and replace themselves. (Left alone, abalone can live 30 years or more.)
鲍鱼生长缓慢，需要七年时间才能达到性成熟，之后还要一两年的时间才能长到满足合法捕捞的最小尺寸。这种情况下，它们至少应该有一点点时间来自我繁殖和替代。（如果没人捕捞，鲍鱼可以活30年，甚至更长时间。）
But the poachers pay little heed to sustainability. The fisheries department says that two-thirds of the abalone it confiscates from poachers are younger and smaller than the legal minimum, and that the waters around Robben Island have been particularly hard hit.
但偷猎者几乎不关心可持续性。渔业部门称，从偷猎者那里没收的鲍鱼有三分之二年龄和尺寸小于合法捕捞的最小标准，而罗本岛周边水域受到的影响尤为严重。