Sergey I. Kislyak, the longtime Russian ambassador to the United States, hosted a dazzling dinner in his three-story, beaux-arts mansion four blocks north of the White House to toast Michael A. McFaul just weeks before he took up his post as the U.S. envoy to Russia.
迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)出使俄罗斯几周前，驻美国多年俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)在自家宅邸内举办了一场豪华晚宴，为麦克福尔践行，房子位于白宫以北四个街区开外，是一栋布杂艺术风格的三层建筑。
It was, McFaul recalled, an “over-the-top, extraordinary dinner,” including five courses of Russian fusion cuisine for 50 seated guests who shared one main characteristic: They were government officials intimately involved in formulating Russia policy for the Obama administration, including senior figures from the Defense and State departments.
麦克福尔回忆说，那是一次“顶级的，非凡的晚餐”，包括五道俄罗斯融合菜，出席宴会的50名客人有一个主要的共同点：他们都是奥巴马政府内密切参与制定俄罗斯政策的官员，包括国防部和国务院的大人物。
“I admired the fact that he was trying to reach deep into our government to cultivate relations with all kinds of people,” McFaul said of the dinner in late 2011. “I was impressed by the way he went about that kind of socializing, the way he went about entertaining, but always with a political objective.”
“他试图深入我们的政府，培养与各种人之间的关系，我很佩服这一点，”麦克福尔谈及2011年底的那次晚餐。“他的这种社交方式令人钦佩，他是在娱乐，但总是有一个政治目标。”
Kislyak’s networking success has landed him at the center of a sprawling controversy and made him the most prominent, if politically radioactive, ambassador in Washington. Two advisers to President Donald Trump have run into trouble for not being more candid about contacts with Kislyak: Michael Flynn, who was forced to resign as national security adviser, and now Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who admitted two previously undisclosed conversations. Kislyak also met during the transition with Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner.
人脉构建上的成功导致基斯利亚克成为一场日渐扩大的争议的中心，也成为华盛顿最显眼的一位大使，尽管接近他要冒着政治风险。唐纳德·特朗普总统的两名顾问因为没有申明同基斯利亚克的关系而遇到了麻烦：迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)被迫辞去国家安全顾问之职，现在司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)也承认了两次未曾公开的对话。在总统权力交接期间，基斯利亚克还会见了特朗普的女婿和顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)。
A career diplomat raised in the Soviet era, Kislyak, 66, (pronounced kees-LYACK) may seem an unlikely protagonist in such a drama. He has interacted with U.S. officials for decades and been a fixture on the Washington scene for the past nine years, jowly and cordial with an easy smile and fluent if accented English, yet a pugnacity in advocating Russia’s assertive policies.
今年66岁的基斯利亚克是苏联时期崛起的职业外交官，看上去想象他会成为这样一场大戏的主角。他已经同美国官员来往了数十年，过去的九年里更是华盛顿政界的恒定存在，他下颚宽厚，热情友好，总是面带轻松的微笑，说着一口略带口音的流利英语，然而在宣传俄罗斯的强硬政策时也颇为好斗。
Invited to think tanks to discuss arms control, he would invariably offer an unapologetic defense of Russia’s intervention in Ukraine and assail Americans for what he portrayed as their hypocrisy — then afterward approach a debating partner to suggest dinner.
被邀请加入讨论军备控制的智库时，他总是为俄罗斯干预乌克兰提供毫无愧意的辩护，并且攻击美国人，形容他们是伪君子——然后他会走向一个辩论对手，邀请对方共进晚餐。
“Not all of us, myself included, initially appreciated his very tough, in-your-face style,” said Dimitri K. Simes, president of the Center for the National Interest and an advocate of closer Russian-American relations, who hosted a dinner at his home for Kislyak after his arrival in Washington and regularly invited him to events at his center. “But we gradually came to develop a grudging respect for him as someone who was really representing the positions of his country.”
“一开始，不是所有人都欣赏他那种非常强硬的、特立独行的风格，包括我在内，”国家利益中心(Center for the National Interest)主席德米特里·K·西姆斯(Dimitri K. Simes)说，他主张建立更密切的俄美关系。基斯利亚克来到华盛顿后，西姆斯在家中举办晚宴为他接风。“但我们渐渐开始不情愿地对他产生了尊重，把他当做真正代表他的国家立场的人。”
Simes introduced Kislyak to Trump in a receiving line last April at a foreign policy speech hosted by his center at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington. Kislyak was one of four ambassadors who sat in the front row for Trump’s speech at the invitation of the center. Simes noted that Sessions, then a senator from Alabama, was there, but he did not notice whether he and the ambassador spoke at that time.
去年4月，在国家利益中心于华盛顿的五月花酒店举行的外交政策演讲上，西姆斯把基斯利亚克介绍给了特朗普。受中心邀请，特朗普做了演讲，基斯利亚克是当时坐在第一排的四位大使之一。西姆斯指出，当时任阿拉巴马州参议员的塞申斯也在场，但他没有注意到塞申斯和大使是否进行了交谈。
The Russian Embassy did not respond to an email Thursday, but Kislyak defended engagements with U.S. officials last November, when he was asked during a speech at Stanford University about allegations of Russian meddling in the elections. Kislyak echoed his government’s line that it was not involved in hacking. He said it was natural for diplomats to attend events such as political conventions and foreign policy speeches by candidates.
俄罗斯大使馆没有回复周四的电子邮件采访，但是基斯利亚克去年11月曾为自己同美国官员的交往进行辩解，当时他在斯坦福大学的一次演讲中被问及俄罗斯干涉总统选举这一指控。基斯利亚克回应了俄国政府的说法，称该国没有参与黑客攻击。他说，外交官参加诸如政治集会以及总统候选人的外交政策演讲之类活动是很自然的。
“It is normal diplomatic work that we have been doing: It is our job to understand, to know people, both on the side of the Republicans and Democrats,” he said. “I personally have been working in the United States for so long that I know almost everybody.”
“这是我们一直都在做的正常外交工作：我们的工作就是了解、认识各种人，无论是共和党还是民主党，”他说。“我个人在美国工作了这么久，我几乎认识所有人。”
Even some critics of Russian policy said it was hardly surprising that Kislyak would meet people around Trump. “That was part of his job,” said Steven Pifer, a former ambassador to Ukraine who is now at the Brookings Institution. “I don’t see anything nefarious in that per se, and I don’t think it was out of the box for Senator Sessions to talk with Kislyak.”
就连一些俄罗斯政策的批评者也认为，基斯利亚克会遇到特朗普身边的人不足为奇。“这是他工作的一部分，”前驻乌克兰大使、现任职布鲁金斯学会的史蒂文·皮弗(Steven Pifer)说。“我不觉得这件事本质里有什么恶意的东西，我也不觉得塞申斯参议员同基斯利亚克谈话是什么新鲜事。”
An expert on arms control negotiations with a degree from the Moscow Engineering Physics Institute, Kislyak first served in the Washington embassy from 1985-89 during the late Soviet period. He became the first Russian representative to NATO and was ambassador to Belgium from 1998 to 2003. He returned to Moscow, where he spent five years as a deputy foreign minister.
基斯利亚克毕业于莫斯科工程物理研究所，是一位军备控制谈判专家，在苏联时代末期，即1985至1989年期间首次来到驻华盛顿大使馆工作。他成为第一位俄罗斯驻北约代表，1998年至2003年担任比利时大使。之后他回到莫斯科，担任副外交部长五年。
He was appointed ambassador to Washington in 2008.
2008年，他被任命为驻华盛顿大使。
The questions about contacts between Trump’s circle and Russian officials have revealed what both sides presumably knew, that U.S. intelligence agencies closely track Kislyak’s movements and tap his phone calls. Russian officials on Thursday expressed anger that their ambassador’s actions were being questioned and that some news reports suggested he might be an intelligence operative.
特朗普的圈子和俄罗斯官员之间联系曝露了双方可能都知道的事情，美国情报机构密切跟踪基斯利亚克的动向，并监听他的电话。周四，俄罗斯官员就大使的行动受到质疑表示愤怒，一些新闻报道认为他可能是一个情报人员。
Maria Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, delivered an extended diatribe during her weekly briefing against what she called the low professional standards of the U.S. news media.
俄罗斯外交部发言人玛利亚·扎哈罗娃(Maria Zakharova)在她的每周简报中发表了一段长篇抨击，斥责她口中美国新闻媒体的低专业水准。
“I will reveal a military secret to you: Diplomats work, and their work consists of carrying out contacts in the country where they are present,” she said. “This is on record everywhere. If they do not carry out these contacts, do not participate in negotiations, then they are not diplomats.”
“我要向你们揭露一个军事秘密：外交官要工作，而且他们的工作包括同他们所在国的人进行接触，”她说。“到处都有记录。如果他们不进行这些联系，不参与谈判，那么他们就不是外交官。”
Kislyak has told associates that he will leave Washington soon, likely to be replaced by a hard-line general. His name recently surfaced at the United Nations as a candidate for a new post responsible for counterterrorism, diplomats there said. Vitaly I. Churkin, the Russian ambassador to the United Nations, died last month and that post remains vacant.
基斯利亚克已经告诉同事，他很快就会离开华盛顿，他的职务很可能被一个强硬派将领取代。据驻联合国外交官说，他的名字最近在联合国出现，作为一个负责反恐怖主义的新职位的候选人。而俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)上个月去世后，该职位仍然空缺。
For Kislyak, Washington is no longer the place it once was. It has become lonely, and he has told associates that he is surprised how people who once sought his company were now trying to stay away.
对于基斯利亚克，华盛顿已经今非昔比。它变得孤独，他告诉同事，以前常来找他的人现在纷纷远离他，这让他感到惊讶。