It was a grand Hollywood romance that made its presence felt far and wide, from the red carpet to refugee camps in the world’s trouble spots.
这是一段传奇的好莱坞爱情，从红毯到全世界水深火热之地的难民营，都曾感受到它的存在。
It was chronicled in lavish photo spreads in high-end fashion magazines and in paparazzi shots that appeared in the tabloids and on the gossip sites, as if to undercut the couple’s mythic status.
它的历程被拍成华美的图片，刊登于高端时尚杂志，也被狗仔队的镜头一一捕捉，出现在小报和八卦网站上，好像是为了削弱这对夫妇神话般的地位。
Now, with a lawyer’s blandly worded press statement on Tuesday morning, the love story of Angelina Jolie Pitt and Brad Pitt, who were married in 2014, has come to an unhappy end.
现在，随着一位律师在周二早上发布的一纸措辞乏味的声明，于2014年结婚的安吉丽娜·朱莉·皮特(Angelina Jolie Pitt)与布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)的爱情故事，走到了一个不愉快的终点。
“This decision was made for the health of the family,” Robert Offer, a lawyer for Ms. Jolie Pitt, said in the statement. “She will not be commenting, and asks that the family be given its privacy at this time.”
“做出这样的决定是为了家庭的健康，”朱莉·皮特的律师罗伯特·奥费(Robert Offer)在声明中表示。“她不会发表评论，同时请求外界在此刻尊重这个家庭的隐私。”
The announcement came a little over two years after the couple married in a ceremony before roughly 20 friends and family members in a Romanesque chapel on the grounds of Château Miraval, their estate in the South of France. The couple’s six children, three of them adopted, attended the bride and groom. The master tailor Luigi Massi of Atelier Versace made Ms. Jolie Pitt’s wedding dress, incorporating designs from her children’s drawings.
两年多前，两人在大约20名亲友的见证下，在他们位于法国南部的米拉瓦尔庄园(Château Miraval)内一座罗马式小教堂举行了婚礼。他们的六个孩子——其中有三个是收养——也出席了婚礼。Atelier Versace主裁缝师路易吉·马希(Luigi Massi)为朱莉·皮特制作了婚纱，在设计中融入了孩子们的一些涂鸦。
In keeping with the public nature of their relationship, Mr. Pitt and Ms. Jolie Pitt sold the photographs of their wedding day to People and Hello! magazines for a reported $5 million. In keeping with their habit of giving to charity, the couple contributed the payment to the Jolie-Pitt Foundation.
本着他们一贯的高调作风，皮特和朱莉·皮特将婚礼照片以500万美元的价格卖给了《人物》(People)和《Hello!》杂志。本着他们乐善好施的习惯，两人又将所得款项捐给了朱莉-皮特基金会。
When their romance became public, the tabloids were quick to dub them “Brangelina.” At the time, she was a divorced mother of an adopted son, Maddox, having ended her marriage to the actor Billy Bob Thornton in 2003. Mr. Pitt was still married to the “Friends” star Jennifer Aniston.
他们的爱情故事曝光之后，小报很快将他们称为“布拉吉丽娜”(Brangelina)。那时她已经于2003年结束了与演员比利·鲍勃·桑顿(Billy Bob Thornton)的婚姻，带着收养的儿子麦道克斯(Maddox)。皮特的身份还是《老友记》(Friends)中的明星詹妮弗·安妮斯顿(Jennifer Aniston)的丈夫。
Ms. Aniston filed for divorce from the actor in March 2005. That summer a spread appeared in the large-format glossy magazine W. Shot by Steven Klein and headlined “Domestic Bliss: Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt at Home,” it comprised 60 pages of photographs of Mr. Pitt, Ms. Jolie and five boys (all of them models) who somewhat resembled Mr. Pitt, in a chic, early 1960s setting.
安妮斯顿在2005年3月提起诉讼，申请与皮特离婚。那年夏天，大幅面时尚杂志《W》刊登了史蒂芬·克雷恩(Steven Klein)拍摄的一些照片，并以《幸福生活：居家的安吉丽娜·朱莉和布拉德·皮特》(Domestic Bliss: Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt at Home)为标题进行报道。此报道汇集了60页皮特、朱莉以及五个长相有点像皮特的男孩（都是模特）的照片，放置在一种上世纪60年代的时髦雅致场景中。
Their most recent project as a couple, the 2015 film “By the Sea,” directed by Ms. Jolie Pitt, told a different story. “Meta with a vengeance, ‘By the Sea’ stars Angelina Jolie Pitt and Brad Pitt as itinerant married artists who are suffering, beautifully, through a rough patch,” wrote Manohla Dargis in her review for The New York Times.
二人作为夫妇一起合作的最近一个项目则讲述了一个不同的故事。那是2015年的影片《海岸情深》(By the Sea)，由朱莉·皮特导演。“让人出乎意料的是，安吉丽娜·朱莉和布拉德·皮特在《海岸情深》中饰演了一对旅途中的艺术家夫妇，他们正经历一段困难期，在很漂亮地痛苦着，”《纽约时报》的曼诺拉·达吉斯(Manohla Dargis)在她的影评中写道。
Asked about the process of directing her husband, Ms. Jolie Pitt told Vanity Fair, “A few friends asked if we were crazy.” The moody film was a box-office flop, grossing $3.3 million.
在被问到导演丈夫参演影片的过程时，朱莉·皮特告诉《名利场》(Vanity Fair)，“有几位朋友问我们是不是疯了。”这部闷闷不乐的影片惨遭失败，只获得330万美元的票房。
During the course of their relationship, the Jolie Pitt clan expanded. In addition to Maddox, 15, whom she adopted in Cambodia in 2002, the couple are parents to Zahara, 11, from Ethiopia; Shiloh, to whom she gave birth in Namibia in 2006; Pax, 12, adopted in Vietnam; and the twins Vivienne and Knox, 8, to whom Ms. Jolie Pitt gave birth in 2008.
在二人相处的过程中，朱莉·皮特家族逐渐扩大。除了她于2002年在柬埔寨收养的麦道克斯，二人又多了五名子女，分别是从埃塞俄比亚收养、现年11岁的扎哈拉(Zahara)；朱莉于2006年在纳米比亚生下希洛(Shiloh)；从越南收养、现年12岁的帕克斯(Pax)；以及朱莉在2008年诞下的双胞胎，现年8岁的薇薇安(Vivienne)和诺克斯(Knox)。
Ms. Jolie Pitt and Mr. Pitt have separately discussed struggling with self-destructive behavior in their younger years. Both seemed to have overcome the dark periods, with a slew of high grossing, critically acclaimed films to their names and a well-documented commitment to philanthropy.
朱莉·皮特和皮特曾分别谈论过自己年轻时的自毁经历。两人看起来都已经克服了那些黑暗岁月，拍了大量叫好又叫座的影片，他们对慈善事业的投入也得到了充分证明。
She began working for the United Nations in 2000 as a good-will ambassador, and became the special envoy for the United Nations high commissioner for refugees in 2012.
她从2000年开始担任联合国亲善大使，又在2012年成为联合国难民署特使。
She has gone on dozens of missions to countries around the world, including Iraq, Jordan and Myanmar. Last year she addressed the United Nations Security Council, arguing that the United Nations was failing the people of Syria. Earlier this month, Ms. Jolie Pitt spent three days at the Azraq camp in Jordan, which is home to more than 37,000 Syrian refugees, according to the United Nations.
她前往世界各地，包括伊拉克、约旦和缅甸，完成了数十项任务。去年在联合国安理会发表演讲时，她指出联合国有负于叙利亚人民。联合国方面的消息称，本月初，朱莉·皮特在约旦的阿兹拉克难民营待了三天，那里是逾3.7万名叙利亚难民的家园。
During her years with Mr. Pitt, she had box office hits with the action movie “Wanted” and the Disney fantasy “Maleficent” while also making a name for herself as a director of serious fare like “In the Land of Blood and Honey,” a love story set against the backdrop of the Bosnian War, and “Unbroken.”
和皮特在一起的日子里，她出演了票房大卖的动作片《通缉令》(Wanted)和迪士尼魔幻片《沉睡魔咒》(Maleficent)，还执导了让她跻身知名严肃电影导演之列的《血与蜜之地》(In the Land of Blood and Honey)和《坚不可摧》(Unbroken)。前者是一部以波黑战争为背景的爱情片。
He has won an Oscar for producing the critically acclaimed “12 Years a Slave” and has been nominated for several other Oscars, including for best actor for “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button” and for “Moneyball.” He was also nominated for a best supporting actor Golden Globe for his role in “Babel.”
他因制作广受好评的《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)而拿到了奥斯卡奖，还获得过好几次奥斯卡提名，包括凭《本杰明·巴顿奇事》(The Curious Case of Benjamin Button)和《魔球》(Moneyball)被提名最佳男演员奖。他还曾凭《通天塔》(Babel)被提名金球奖最佳男配角奖。
In 2013 Ms. Jolie Pitt wrote a candid and widely praised Op-Ed page essay for The New York Times about choosing to have a preventative double mastectomy. She followed it up in 2015 with an essay on her next preventative surgery, during which her ovaries and fallopian tubes were removed.
2013年，朱莉·皮特为《纽约时报》撰写了一篇专栏文章，讲述她为何选择做预防性双乳切除手术，文字坦诚，广受赞誉。接着，她又在2015年写了一篇文章，谈论她的下一次预防性手术，她的卵巢和输卵管在那场手术中被切除了。
While he wears his political commitments more lightly than Ms. Jolie Pitt, Mr. Pitt is a co-founder of Not on Our Watch, a nongovernmental organization devoted to preventing genocide, and the founder of Make It Right, which builds homes and other structures for people in need.
虽然皮特对政治的投入程度远不及朱莉·皮特，但他是Not on Our Watch的联合创始人，该非政府组织致力于防止种族灭绝罪行，他还是Make It Right的创办者，该组织旨在为有需要者建造住房以及其他建筑物。
Over the course of their time together, the couple demonstrated an unusual ability to negotiate with the media. After Shiloh was born in 2006, the couple sold photos of the mother and newborn to People magazine for an estimated $4.1 million, all of which they donated to charity. That same year they negotiated with People on another deal, giving the magazine exclusive photos of Ms. Jolie and Maddox for an estimated $750,000 and the promise to cover Ms. Jolie Pitt’s charity work.
在一起的这些年里，这对夫妇展现出了非同寻常的与媒体谈判的能力。希洛于2006年出生后，两人把母亲和新生儿的照片以估计为410万美元的价格卖给了《人物》杂志，并把这些钱全部捐给了慈善机构。同年，他们和《人物》还达成了另一项交易，用朱莉和麦道克斯的独家照片换得了75万美元，并承诺把这笔钱用于朱莉·皮特的慈善事业。
Later, they received an estimated $14 million from People and Hello! magazines — for shots of their twins — and again donated the funds to charity.
后来，他们以估计为1400万美元的价格，把双胞胎儿女的照片卖给了《人物》和《Hello!》杂志，并再次把钱捐出。
On Tuesday, with the announcement of the split, the hashtag #Brangelina quickly became the top trending item on Twitter, with fans reacting to the news with a range of emotions, including laments over the death of love; complaints that the news was superseding President Obama’s speech at the United Nations; and theories that the news was a welcome distraction from the presidential campaign.
两人离婚的消息于周二宣布后，#布拉吉莉娜很快就成了Twitter上最热门的主题标签，粉丝们的反应各异——有人感叹爱情之死；有人抱怨这条新闻盖过了奥巴马总统在联合国大会上发表演讲的消息；还有人分析，这条新闻让人可以从总统选战中抽离出来，缓一缓神。
Ms. Jolie Pitt was silent on the matter but Mr. Pitt gave a statement to People magazine: “I am very saddened by this, but what matters most now is the well-being of our kids. I kindly ask the press to give them the space they deserve during this challenging time.”
朱莉·皮特对此事保持沉默，但皮特在《人物》杂志上发表了声明：“我为此深感难过，但现在孩子们的幸福才是最重要的。我恳请媒体在这艰难的时刻给予他们应有的空间。”