A man who was freed from North Korean imprisonment in 2010 after former President Jimmy Carter interceded was found dead in San Diego last week.
2010年在前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)斡旋下被朝鲜释放的一名男子，上周被发现在圣迭戈死亡。
The authorities were notified by a witness that the man, Aijalon M. Gomes, 38, had been seen on fire in a field off the Pacific Highway late on Friday.
一名目击者向当局报告，上周五晚他曾看见该男子——38岁的艾亚隆·M·戈梅斯(Aijalon M. Gomes)——在太平洋公路(Pacific Highway)附近的田地，当时身上着了火。
An off-duty California Highway Patrol officer stopped to help him, and the San Diego Fire Rescue responded to a dispatch call, but Mr. Gomes, who had recently moved to San Diego from Boston, was pronounced dead at the scene.
一名不当班的加利福尼亚州公路巡警曾停下来帮助他，圣迭戈消防队也接警出动，但戈梅斯当场死亡。他不久前才从波士顿搬至圣迭戈。
The San Diego Police said in a statement on Tuesday that they believed Mr. Gomes’s death had been either an accident or a suicide. A police spokesman, Billy Hernandez, said the cause of the fire was still under investigation.
圣迭戈警察局在周二的一则声明中表示，他们相信戈梅斯死于意外或自杀。警局发言人比利·赫尔南德斯(Billy Hernandez)称，起火原因仍在调查。
In April 2010, Mr. Gomes was sentenced to eight years of hard labor in a North Korean prison for crossing into the country illegally. Mr. Carter made a special visit to Pyongyang, the country’s capital, to negotiate for his release in August of that year.
2010年4月，戈梅斯因非法进入朝鲜被判处8年劳役。吉米·卡特专程访问了朝鲜首都平壤，为戈梅斯同年8月的释放展开谈判。
Mr. Gomes is the second American to have died this year after having been imprisoned in North Korea. Otto Warmbier, an American college student, died in June, a week after he was released in a vegetative state. A coroner determined in September that he had suffered extensive brain damage after his circulation was cut off.
戈梅斯是今年第二名被朝鲜关押后死亡的美国人。美国大学生奥托·瓦姆比尔(Otto Warmbier)在植物人状况下被释放一周后于6月死亡。一名验尸官在9月判断他是因血液循环中断而导致大面积脑损伤。
And if Mr. Gomes’s death is ruled a suicide, he would be the second American to have killed himself after having been released from North Korean detention. In 1996, about a month after he was let go from the country, Evan C. Hunziker committed suicide. He was 26 years old.
若把戈梅斯死因归于自杀，那么他将是第二名被朝鲜扣押、释放后自杀的美国人。1996年，从朝鲜获释后不到一个月，埃文·C·亨齐克(Evan C. Hunziker)自杀，时年26岁。
Mr. Hunziker’s father tried in 1996 to explain the death of his son, who was wanted in the United States on three outstanding arrest warrants, saying that he had “been afraid of going back to jail.” Both Mr. Gomes and Mr. Hunziker attempted suicide while imprisoned.
亨齐克的父亲1996年试图解释儿子的死因，他的儿子因身背三张有效逮捕令而被通缉，并表示“害怕又要回监狱”。戈梅斯和亨齐克都曾在关押期间企图自杀。
Mr. Gomes’s mother, Jacqueline McCarthy, confirmed to a local news station that her son had just moved to San Diego, but asked for privacy as the family dealt with his death. She did not answer phone calls on Wednesday.
戈梅斯的母亲杰奎琳·麦卡锡(Jacqueline McCarthy)向当地新闻台确认，自己的儿子刚刚搬到圣迭戈，但在家人处理儿子死亡的问题上，该母亲希望保留隐私。周三时，她的电话无人接听。
In a rare interview in 2015, Mr. Gomes described some of the conditions of his imprisonment.
在2015年一次罕有的采访中，戈梅斯描述了监禁的部分情况。
He said that he had initially been detained in a concrete cell that was “beyond freezing,” that he had reason to believe one of his guards was urinating in his food, and that he was assigned to make bricks as punishment. He described himself as “broken and weary of the games being played for my life” two months after he was arrested in January 2010.
他说，一开始，他被关在一间冰冷彻骨的水泥牢房中，并且他有理由相信，有一个看守往他的食物中小便。他的处罚是被分配去做砖头。在2010年1月被逮捕后的两个月，他表示“对自己的命运感到崩溃、疲惫”。
In the interview, he said that he still experienced setbacks and frustrations, and that issues with anxiety had made him “mostly a recluse.”
采访中，他表示他仍有心理障碍、情绪低落，焦虑问题让他“多数时候离群索居”。
At least three Americans — Tony Kim, Kim Hak-song and Kim Dong-chul — remain imprisoned in North Korea. President Trump on Monday restored the country to a list of states that sponsor terrorism, once again escalating tensions between the United States and North Korea.
至少有三名美国人——托尼·金(Tony Kim)、金学松(Kim Hak-song)和金东哲(Kim Dong-chul)——仍被朝鲜关押。特朗普总统周一将该国重新列入了支持恐怖主义的国家名单，再次加剧了美国和朝鲜之间的紧张关系。