Eleanor Catton was all but swallowed up the other day by the buzz and hum of a Midtown hotel lobby, with its chattering tourists. In the midst of a victory tour after winning the 2013 Man Booker Prize for her second novel, “The Luminaries,” Ms. Catton had not yet fully adjusted to being an object of attention, or even to being allowed to stay in a fancy hotel, as she described it.
不久前的一天，埃莉诺·卡顿(Eleanor Catton)完全被市中心一家酒店大堂里游客们说话的嗡嗡声给淹没了。卡顿凭借自己的第二部小说《发光体》(The Luminaries)获得了2013年布克奖。在她获奖后的胜利之旅中，她还不太适应成为关注的对象，甚至没想到能住在这么豪华的酒店里。
“Do you think they’d bring us coffee upstairs?” she said.
“你觉得他们能把咖啡给我们送到楼上去吗？”她说。
They would.
他们能。
Ms. Catton, who has long hair, a thick New Zealand accent that renders “went” as “wint,” and a manner that is both forthright and whimsical, is something of a literary curiosity. At 28, she is the youngest person, and only the second from New Zealand, to win the prize: the starriest fiction award going, bringing a check for £50,000 (roughly $80,000) and incalculable benefits in sales and exposure. (The other New Zealander to win was Keri Hulme, for “The Bone People,” in 1985 — which happens to be the year Ms. Catton was born.)
卡顿留着长发，说话带有浓重的新西兰口音，把“went”念成“wint”。她行事既直率又古怪，带有文人的好奇心。28岁的她是该奖项最年轻的得主，也是第二个获得该奖的新西兰作家。这个著名的小说奖使她获得了五万英镑的支票（约合八万美元）以及在销售和曝光率方面无法计算的益处（另一位获得该奖的新西兰人是克里·休姆[Keri Hulme]，她在1985年凭《骨人》[The Bone People]获奖，卡顿正好是在那一年出生的）。
Ms. Catton’s winning novel is an unfashionably ambitious 834-page behemoth of a book that is both a murder mystery written in the Victorian style of Dickens or Wilkie Collins, and a virtuoso exercise organized — excitingly or irritatingly, depending on your perspective — according to the astrological signs of its characters and the position and movements of the planets above 19th-century New Zealand.
卡顿的获奖小说是一部834页的巨著，不追随当下的时尚，非常有野心。它既是一部以狄更斯或威尔基·柯林斯(Wilkie Collins)的维多利亚时代风格写成的谋杀悬疑小说，又是一部大师习作，是按照人物的星座以及19世纪新西兰上空行星的位置和运转来组织的——有人觉得这种组织方式让人兴奋，也有人觉得它让人恼火。
Set in the gold rush town of Hokitika, the book begins on a stormy night when a seasick, spooked traveler stumbles upon a secret meeting of 12 uneasy men. There are multiple mysteries afoot — a rich man has disappeared; a prostitute has been found near death in the street; and a supposedly penniless hermit who turns out to have been very rich has died suspiciously — and each of the 12 is implicated in one way or another. Told in overlapping, “Rashomon”-like narratives, the rest of the book concerns itself with how, and why.
故事发生在淘金小镇霍基蒂卡，在一个暴风雨之夜展开。一位晕船又受到惊吓的旅客无意中碰上了一个秘密聚会，与会的是12个心神不宁的人。好几起神秘事件接连发生——一个富人失踪了；一个妓女在街上奄奄一息；一个隐士神秘死亡，人们以为他身无分文，实际上他非常富有。这12个人都与这些事有这样或那样的牵连。这本书的其余部分以相互重合的“罗生门”式的叙述方法，讲述了这些事情的来龙去脉。
The Man Booker judges called “The Luminaries” “extraordinary, luminous, vast,” and many reviewers have been thoroughly dazzled by it, including the author Bill Roorbach, who wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Ms. Catton had created “something utterly new.” But there have been dissenters. “A ship made of matchsticks in a bottle is a feat of construction but not necessarily a great work of art,” David Sexton said in The London Evening Standard.
布克奖的评委们称《发光体》“非凡、耀眼、宏大”，很多书评家彻底被它迷倒了，包括作家比尔·鲁巴克(Bill Roorbach)，他在《纽约时报书评》上说卡顿创造了“某种全新的东西”。但也有人持不同意见。“在瓶子中用火柴棍搭一个轮船是一种建筑绝技，但不一定是艺术杰作，”大卫·塞克斯顿(David Sexton)在《伦敦旗帜晚报》(London Evening Standard)上说。
Ms. Catton said that such talk does not really bother her. In her hotel room — the publisher had put her in a suite, another exciting development — she described how the book came about. It began, on one level, with the stars: She wanted her characters to correspond to the signs of the zodiac, and wanted the book to begin on Jan. 27, 1866: a day when, she discovered, there was a triple convergence in the heavens, three planets in Sagittarius. On another level, she began with plot: She wanted a big, meaty mystery.
卡顿说这样的评论并不怎么困扰她。在她的酒店房间里——出版社给她订了一个套房，这又是一个令人兴奋的进步——她讲述了这本书的诞生过程。一方面，它始于星座：她想让书里的人物与星座对应，想让这本书始于1866年1月27日，因为她发现那天出现了天体的三重汇集，三颗行星进入射手座。另一方面，从情节上，她想讲述一个庞大而复杂的悬疑故事。
The book jumps around chronologically. It begins with a chapter that is 360 pages long and ends with one that lasts for barely two. Characters come and go according to planetary movements. (The one representing Mercury sets, as it were, somewhere in the middle of the book and is never heard from again.) Readers get the sense of being expertly led around by someone much cleverer than they are.
这本书在时间顺序上前后跳跃。第一章有360页，最后一章不到两页。人物按照行星运转登场又离场（代表水星那个人物像水星那样，在故事的中段出现，然后再也没露面）。读者们感觉被某个比自己聪明得多的人巧妙地四处引导。
Ms. Catton said that she herself does not believe that zodiac signs dictate people’s characters, but just wanted to play with the idea while working hard to ensure that structure did not trump plot.
卡顿说她本人不相信星座决定人的性格，只是想引用这个概念，同时努力确保结构不会影响情节。
“If the characters are emerging out of the book seeming like puppets or exercises in what is essentially a fictional conceit rather than a human conceit, then the whole book will fail,” she said.
“如果书中的人物像木偶那样冒出来，活在虚幻的构想中，而不是人类的构想中，那整本书都会失败，”她说。
On the surface, at least, “The Luminaries” is a far cry from her first book, “The Rehearsal.” Published in the United States when she was 24, that novel was a postmodern romp about a theater company’s dramatization of a high school sex scandal that featured shifting perspectives and characters who shimmered in and out of identities and roles.
至少从表面上看，《发光体》和她的第一本书《排演》(The Rehearsal)很不相同。那本小说是在美国出版的，当时她24岁。它是一部后现代闹剧，讲述的是一个戏剧公司把一桩高中性丑闻改编成了戏剧。那本书的特色是叙述角度不断变换，人物不时跳出自己的身份和角色。
Ms. Catton was born in Canada and raised in Christchurch, New Zealand. Her mother was a library administrator, and her father a philosophy professor who used to roust her and her two siblings out of bed to admire the night sky.
卡顿在加拿大出生，在新西兰的克莱斯特彻奇市长大。母亲是图书管理员，父亲是哲学教授，他过去常常把她和两个姊妹从床上叫醒去欣赏夜空。
“Stars were a big part of my childhood,” she said. “My dad would be almost weeping, overcome with emotion at this extraordinary celestial object, and we’d just be feeling cold.”
“星空是我童年的一个重要部分，”她说，“我爸爸看着那些非凡的天体特别激动，几乎要流出泪来，我们只是感觉很冷。”
Ms. Catton graduated from the University of Canterbury and earned a master’s degree from Victoria University of Wellington. In 2008, she won a fellowship for New Zealand writers to the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. She wrote most of “The Luminaries” there, enlisting her boyfriend, Steve Toussaint, an American poet, as adviser, sounding board and co-conspirator, she said.
卡顿毕业于坎特伯雷大学，在惠灵顿的维多利亚大学获得了硕士学位。2008年，她获得了爱荷华作家讲习班为新西兰作家设立的奖学金。《发光体》主要是在那个讲习班创作的。她说她的男友、美国诗人史蒂夫·图森特(Steve Toussaint)是她的顾问，跟她一起讨论和设计了这本书。
The New Zealand literary world, which feels its insularity keenly, greeted news of Ms. Catton’s win as a national triumph. Speaking to The New Zealand Herald, Robert Sullivan, head of the creative writing school at the Manukau Institute of Technology, where Ms. Catton teaches, said, “It really puts New Zealand literature on the map, not just in contemporary but also historical fiction.”
新西兰文学界一向认为自己与世隔绝，所以把卡顿获奖看作是整个国家的胜利。卡顿执教于马努卡理工学院创意写作学院。创意学院的院长罗伯特·沙利文(Robert Sullivan)对《新西兰先驱报》(The New Zealand Herald)说，“它（卡顿获奖——译注）真的把新西兰文学纳入了世界文学版图，不只纳入了当代小说版图，而且纳入了历史小说版图。”
Ms. Catton resists the notion that her book somehow speaks to her nation’s identity, as some have suggested. “I don’t really believe in Great — insert a country — Novels,” she said. “I don’t see how you can reconcile that with diversity, and I think the diversity is the most important thing in any national literature.” Still, she said, “we don’t have a tradition of these kinds of 19th-century-style novels in New Zealand, and I felt like I was writing New Zealand into this tradition.”
卡顿不赞同某些人的看法，不认为她的书以某种方式展现了她国家的特色。“我并不真的相信有什么伟大的（某个国家的）小说，”她说，“我不明白你怎么能用国家特色来取代多样化，我认为对任何一个国家的文学来说，多样化都是最重要的。”不过，她说，“新西兰没有写作这种19世纪风格小说的传统，我感觉自己让新西兰开始有了这种传统。”
It is a lot to take on, a whole tradition, and Ms. Catton said she has found it difficult to adjust to the Booker spotlight. “The more that people watch you, the less you can watch yourself,” she said. Lately, she has been having anxiety dreams featuring belligerent readers at literary festivals, the kind of dreams that first plagued her after “The Rehearsal.”
开启一个传统需要承担很多东西，卡顿说她发现自己很难适应布克奖带来的关注。“关注你的人越多，你越不能关注自己，”她说。最近她开始做焦虑的梦，梦见在文学节上碰见咄咄逼人的读者，那样的梦第一次困扰她是在《排演》出版之后。
Then, an imaginary reader would say, “You do realize that you didn’t write this book, don’t you?” In the updated, “Luminaries”-related dream, a new reader stands up and announces, “You do realize that your book doesn’t make sense, don’t you?”
然后那个假想的读者会说，“你知道这本书不是你写的吧？你不会不知道吧？”在最新的跟《发光体》有关的梦中，一个新读者站起来宣称，“你知道自己的书没有意义吧？你不会不知道吧？”
But Ms. Catton said that, in the end, she is certain that it does make sense; she went over the tiniest details again and again, to make sure they held up. And the new dream, she said, surely reflects some kind of personal progress — a healthy evolution in anxiety, “from the self to the work,” she said.
但是卡顿说，到最后她确信自己的书有意义。她一遍遍地梳理那些细微的情节，确保它们前后不矛盾。她说新的梦无疑反映出她个人的某种成长——焦虑的良性演变，“从对自己的质疑演变为对作品的质疑”。