LONDON — They have become some of the most stared-at doors in the world: the entrance to the Lindo Wing at St. Mary’s Hospital in London.
伦敦——这成了世界上最受瞩目的大门之一：伦敦圣玛丽医院(St. Mary’s Hospital)林多妇产中心(Lindo Wing)的入口。
Through those doors, the newest royal baby, the third child of Prince William and Catherine, the duchess of Cambridge, a son, was presented on Monday.
周一，新出生的王室婴儿正是穿过这两扇门，出现在了公众面前，这是威廉王子和剑桥公爵夫人凯瑟琳的第三个孩子，是个男孩。
He follows in a growing tradition: His brother, George, in 2013, and his sister, Charlotte, in 2015, were also born at the Lindo Wing, emerging from the hospital to be greeted by a phalanx of reporters from around the world.
他遵循着一个越来越深厚的传统：他的哥哥乔治和姐姐夏洛特2013年和2015年也都是在林多出生，他们从医院出来时，也有一大群来自世界各地的记者迎接。
William himself, cradled by his mother, Diana, the princess of Wales, and his father, Prince Charles, made the same journey in 1982, as did his brother, Harry, two years later.
威廉本人也曾在1982年被他的母亲威尔士王妃戴安娜和父亲查尔斯王子抱在怀中，走过了同样的流程。他的弟弟哈里在两年后也是如此。
But Diana, for once, hadn’t set the trend: Princess Anne, the daughter of Queen Elizabeth II, was the first to use the Lindo Wing to give birth; her son, Peter, was born there in 1977. Her daughter, Zara, followed, in 1981.
但这一次，并不是戴安娜引领的潮流：第一个在林多生产的是伊丽莎白女王二世的女儿安妮公主(Princess Anne)。她于1977年在那里生下了儿子彼得(Peter)，在1981年生下了女儿扎拉(Zara)。
Excitement about the latest royal birth began when Kensington Palace posted on Twitter at 8.22 a.m. Monday that Catherine, the duchess of Cambridge, had been admitted to the hospital that morning. At 1 p.m. the palace tweeted again: “Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Cambridge was safely delivered of a son at 1101hrs.”
周一上午8点22分，肯辛顿宫在Twitter上发布了剑桥公爵夫人凯瑟琳已在这个早晨入院待产的消息，人们对王室将再添新丁开始激动起来。下午1点，肯辛顿宫再次发帖：“剑桥公爵夫人殿下于11时1分平安诞下一子。”
Around 2.30 p.m., in accordance with tradition, an official notice was erected on an easel in front of Buckingham Palace.
2点30分左右，根据传统，白金汉宫门前的消息架上张贴出了官方通知。
He finally emerged to cheers and camera flashes just before 6 p.m.
将近下午6点，小王子终于出现在了欢呼声和相机闪光灯面前。
Breaths are held every time the doors open — there are often false alarms as nonroyal parents emerge. (The Lindo Wing is a private maternity ward, attached to a public hospital. It offers luxurious surroundings for paying patients.)
大门每次开启，人们都会屏息而待——而当不是王室的父母现身时，都让人虚惊一场。（林多是一个私立产科，隶属于公立医院。它为付费就诊者提供奢华的就医环境。）
While the journalists wait, the bets are on, first about whether the new arrival will be a boy or a girl, and then about the baby’s name. An airplane towing an advertisement for a bookmakers was flying over the hospital on Monday, Reuters reported.
在记者们等候的同时，赌局也在开盘。首先，赌的是新生儿是男是女，接着，便赌孩子的名字。据路透社(Reuters)报道，一架拖着赌注经纪人广告的飞机周一时曾在医院上方飞过。
Among the reporters, die-hard royal fans — some of whom have been waiting for weeks outside the hospital — add a splash of color and quirky devotion, often wearing costumes festooned with the British flag.
与记者在一起的，还有王室的铁杆粉丝，他们当中有人已在医院外等候了数周——平添了一丝趣味和古怪的忠诚，他们往往穿着装饰着英国国旗的服装。
This year, two fans came with puppets in paper crowns, one dressed as a boy and the other as a girl.
今年，有两位粉丝带来了戴着纸王冠的人偶，一个是男孩打扮，另一个是女孩打扮。
“I’ve been doing it a long, long time,” Terry Hutt, 82, holding the boy doll, told Reuters. “Every time I come, have you had butterflies? I get butterflies.”
“我这么做已经很久很久了，”82岁的特里·赫特(Terry Hutt)抱着男孩人偶告诉路透社。“每次来，你会紧张吗？我都会心里发慌。”