She mansplained him. “Let me translate that if I can,” Hillary Clinton said dryly after Donald J. Trump talked up his tax plan.
她反过来像男人一样用硬邦邦的事实指出他的问题。“让我来试着翻译一下，”在唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)大声谈论了自己的税收政策之后，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)不动声色地说。
She interrupted him. When Mr. Trump boasted of the gilded Las Vegas hotel that bears his name, Mrs. Clinton leaned into her microphone. “Made with Chinese steel,” she quipped with a smile.
她打断他的谈话。在特朗普夸耀其在拉斯维加斯以自己名字命名的富丽堂皇的酒店时，克林顿凑近了自己的麦克风。“是用中国的钢材建造，”她微笑着讽刺道。
She mocked him. After Mr. Trump said President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had “no respect” for her, Mrs. Clinton slyly posited why Mr. Putin seemingly preferred Mr. Trump: “He’d rather have a puppet as president of the United States,” she said.
她嘲笑他。在特朗普表示俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)“不尊重”她时，克林顿不乏戏谑地论断普京为何似乎更倾向于特朗普：“他宁愿让一个傀儡当美国的总统，”她说。
In the third and final presidential debate, Mrs. Clinton outmaneuvered Mr. Trump with a surprising new approach: his.
在第三场、同时也是最后一场总统辩论中，克林顿以一种出人意料的新策略智胜了特朗普：以其人之道，还治彼身。
Flipping the script, she turned herself into his relentless tormentor, condescending to him repeatedly and deploying some of his own trademark tactics against him.
她抛开准备好的演讲词，向对手加以折磨，毫不留情。她对特朗普表现得居高临下，使用了后者一些标志性的策略来对付他。
The relatively subdued and largely defanged Republican nominee who showed up onstage in Las Vegas was a different figure from the candidate America has watched for the past 16 months.
这位出现在拉斯维加斯台上的共和党提名人，显得相对受到抑制，好像被拔去了利齿，他和美国人在过去16个月里一直在关注着的那位候选人，简直不是同一个。
Mr. Trump was, for much of the night, oddly calm and composed. He minimized his name-calling. His interruptions were relatively rare.
在那天晚上的大部分时间里，特朗普都出奇地平静和沉着。他把自己骂人的次数减到了最小，也很少打断对方。
In a debate that his allies and aides had predicted would represent 90 minutes of scorched-earth verbal warfare, Mr. Trump seemed deserted by his most bellicose instincts.
在这场他的盟友和助手曾经预测会是90分钟唇枪舌剑的辩论中，特朗普似乎丧失了他的大部分好斗本性。
He repeatedly gave up chances to respond to pointed taunts from Mrs. Clinton, who dominated the confrontation from its opening moments, needling and baiting him over and over.
他多次放弃回应来自克林顿的尖锐讽刺的机会。后者从一开始就主导了这次对抗，并一次又一次刺激和试图激怒他。
During a back-and-forth about immigration, Mrs. Clinton landed a hard jab, asserting that Mr. Trump had used undocumented workers to build Trump Tower — even threatening such workers, she said, with deportation.
在有关移民政策的交锋中，克林顿使出了一记重拳，宣称特朗普曾在建造特朗普大厦时使用无证件的工人——甚至以驱逐出境威胁这些工人。
Mr. Trump, who until Wednesday had seldom let a critique go by unanswered, did not respond.
对此，特朗普没有做出回应。直到周三前，他还很少放过任何一条对他的批评。
In the night’s biggest surprise, he allowed Mrs. Clinton to avoid entirely a question from the moderator, Chris Wallace of Fox News, about allegations of sexual misconduct against former President Bill Clinton and what role she might have played in trying to discredit the women who came forward to accuse her husband.
当晚最大的意外是，他眼看着克林顿完全避开了辩论主持人、福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)的克里斯·华莱士(Chris Wallace)提出的一个问题而不加干涉。这个问题是关于针对前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的不检点性行为指控，以及希拉里·克林顿在败坏站出来指控她丈夫的女性的声誉方面可能扮演的角色。
At times, Mr. Trump was inexplicably polite. As he replied to a question about the Second Amendment, Mr. Trump observed that his rival might have paid him a backhanded compliment by mentioning his endorsement from the National Rifle Association.
有几次，特朗普礼貌到让人费解的程度。在回答一个有关第二修正案(Second Amendment)的问题时，特朗普指出，他的对手提到他获得了美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)的背书，可能是在暗含讥讽地恭维他。
“I don’t know if Hillary was saying it in a sarcastic manner,” he said, with uncharacteristic mildness.
“我不知道希拉里这么说是不是在讽刺我，”他以一种不常见的温和态度说道。
At the moments when Mr. Trump did revert to his old, familiar self, he seemed unsteady and defensive.
哪怕是在特朗普恢复原来那让人熟悉的样子的时刻，他也看似并不稳定，处在防御状态。
When Mrs. Clinton called Mr. Trump a puppet of Mr. Putin, Mr. Trump offered a limp interruption.
当克林顿称特朗普是普京的傀儡时，特朗普有些无力地打断了她。
“No puppet. No puppet,” he said. “You’re the puppet,” he added, emptily. He never explained what he might have meant.
“没什么傀儡。没什么傀儡，”他说。“你才是傀儡，”他接着讲道，显得有些空泛。他一直没有解释这句话是指什么。
After two historically acrid debates, Mrs. Clinton finally got the policy discussion she has craved. But in between expounding on her proposals to make college affordable and raise the minimum wage, she lustily savaged Mr. Trump’s career, his finances and his sensitivities, portraying him as a lightweight with the temperament of a spoiled child.
在经历了两场史上火药味最浓的总统辩论之后，克林顿终于得到了她所渴望的讨论政策的机会。但在详细阐述她有关让上大学的成本更容易负担和提高最低工资的提议过程中，她也凶猛地抨击了特朗普的职业生涯、财务情况以及他的脾性，将他描绘成一个脾气像是被惯坏的孩子的人、一个轻量级选手。
On his experience: “On the day when I was in the Situation Room monitoring the raid that brought Osama bin Laden to justice, he was hosting ‘The Celebrity Apprentice,’” Mrs. Clinton said.
有关他的经历，克林顿说道：“我在军情室(Situation Room)监控将奥萨玛·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)绳之以法的突袭行动时，他正在主持《名人学徒》(The Celebrity Apprentice)。”
On his charitable giving, compared with the work of the Clinton Foundation: “I’d be happy to compare what we do with the Trump Foundation, which took money from other people and bought a six-foot portrait of Donald,” Mrs. Clinton said witheringly.
在他的慈善捐赠方面，与克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)的工作进行了比较：“我很乐意将我们所做的事与特朗普基金会的进行比较，后者拿了其他人的钱，买了一副六英尺高的唐纳德画像，”克林顿讥讽地说。
“I mean, who does that?” she added.
“我是说，谁会干这种事？”她接着讲道。
On Mr. Trump’s famed negotiating skills: “He went to Mexico. He had a meeting with the Mexican president,” Mrs. Clinton said, bitingly. “He choked and then he got into a Twitter war because the Mexican president said we’re not paying for that wall.”
有关特朗普有名的谈判技巧：“他去墨西哥，和墨西哥总统进行了一次会谈，”克林顿语带讽刺地讲道。“他搞砸了，然后在Twitter上和人打起了嘴仗，因为墨西哥总统说他们不会为那堵墙出钱。”
Mr. Trump struggled to keep pace. “Excuse me,” he complained. “My turn,” he stomped.
特朗普难以跟上节奏。“不好意思，”他抱怨道。“轮到我了，”他跺着脚说。
“The one thing you have over me is experience,” Mr. Trump said at one point.
“和我相比，你唯一的优势就是经验，”特朗普在某个时刻说道。
And yet it seemed clear through this last confrontation that there was a gap in knowledge, or at least in command of the material that candidates seeking to be president are expected to master.
但透过最后这场对抗似乎可以清楚地看到，两人在知识上，或者至少是在寻求入主白宫的候选人所应了解的材料的掌握上，有着巨大的差距。
“Take a look at the Start-Up,” Mr. Trump said at one point, apparently referring to the Start nuclear arms reduction treaty.
“看看Start-Up，”特朗普一度说道，这里似乎是指Start这一削减核武器条约。（前者意为初创企业，后者则为《削减和限制进攻性战略武器条约》的缩写——译注。）
Pressed on immigration, Mrs. Clinton detailed her plan to overhaul the current system, identifying a daughter of undocumented parents who feared they would be deported. Mr. Trump’s response seemed far less certain: After reiterating his plan to build a wall on the Mexican border, he summoned a line straight out of a Hollywood western. “We have some bad hombres here, and we’re going to get them out,” he said.
当被追问移民问题时，克林顿详细阐述了整改当前体制的计划，还特别提到了一位担心自己的黑户父母遭到驱逐的女儿。特朗普的回应似乎远远没那么确切：他重申了自己在墨西哥边境修建隔离墙的计划，随后原封不动地引用了某部好莱坞西部片的台词。“我们这儿有些坏家伙，我们得把他们赶走，”他说。
Asked about a 2008 Supreme Court decision on gun control, District of Columbia vs. Heller, Mr. Trump displayed a loose command of the subject, focusing his answer on Mrs. Clinton’s emotions after the ruling. “Hillary was extremely upset, extremely angry,” he said.
当被问及最高法院(Supreme Court)在2008年针对哥伦比亚特区诉赫勒案(District of Columbia vs. Heller)做出的关于控枪的裁决时，特朗普有些答非所问，其答案以裁决出炉后克林顿的情绪为焦点。“希拉里极为生气，极为愤怒，”他说。
As the debate wore on, Mrs. Clinton kept finding opportunities to make Mr. Trump seem smaller and smaller, or at least more puerile.
随着辩论的展开，克林顿不停地寻找机会，让特朗普看上去越来越没有气量，至少是越来越幼稚。
She noted that after a stretch without an Emmy for his reality TV show, Mr. Trump had claimed that the awards show was rigged against him — just as he now says about the election.
她指出，特朗普因其真人秀节目连续没能得到艾美奖，声称颁奖典礼被操纵，有意针对他——他现在也是这样谈论这场选举的。
Mr. Trump did not disappoint. “Should have gotten it,” he said bitterly.
特朗普没有辜负她的期望。“我本来就该得奖，”他恨恨地说道。
And it became clear that the candidate who relishes his role as a bully had little patience for being bullied.
而且很明显，这位十分享受扮演欺凌者角色的候选人，一点儿也受不了被人欺负。
Mrs. Clinton implied that Mr. Trump would find a way to weasel out of paying his fair share of taxes for Social Security.
克林顿暗示特朗普会找到办法，逃避缴纳他该缴的那份社会保障税。
“My Social Security payroll contribution will go up, as will Donald’s — assuming he can’t figure out how to get out of it,” Ms. Clinton said, fully aware she was provoking him.
“我缴纳的社保会增多，特朗普的也一样，前提是他无法找出避税办法，”克林顿说，完全明白这会激怒他。
And provoked he was.
他也的确被激怒了。
“Such a nasty woman,” Mr. Trump grumbled.
“真是个龌龊的女人，”特朗普嘟囔道。