If you were to be in Paris on any given Thursday night, ambling along the Champs-Élysées, odds are you would see and hear us, a stampede of 150 runners storming through the city to the beat of whatever playlist is being blared from within the fast-moving group.
如果你在任何一个周四的夜晚到达巴黎并在香榭丽舍大道漫步，就有可能看到和听到我们，一个由150人组成的跑步团体浩浩荡荡穿过这城市。声势之大，疾走的队伍中无论播放什么音乐人们都无法听清。
Under the guidance of certified coaches who lead the runs and direct traffic, runners with the Nike Running France crew get a twilight tour of Paris every week, charging past major landmarks like the Louvre and the Eiffel Tower, thundering through the underground Metro tunnels and gliding past confused outdoor cafe drinkers.
在持证教练（功能是领跑并协调交通）的带领下，参加耐克法兰西长跑的人每周都可以在黄昏时分游览巴黎，迅速跑过卢浮宫、埃菲尔铁塔等地标建筑，轰隆隆穿过地下铁的通道，其敏捷的身姿让户外咖啡馆的顾客们迷惑而惊诧。
For locals, the group is a good way to take a traditionally solitary sport and turn it into a social one.
对当地人来说，这个跑步团体是将一种孤独的传统运动变成社交活动的好办法。
For visitors, the runs serve as a free, guided tour of Paris — and perhaps an excuse to tuck into another éclair.
对游客来说，这个跑步活动相当于一种免费参团游览巴黎的方式——甚至是吃下更多奶油卷的一个绝好借口。
After signing up for the event on Facebook, we meet at the flagship Nike store on the Champs-Élysées, where the group invariably attracts the curious looks of passers-by — and understandably so. The runners make for an impressive and surprising presence on an avenue known more for its luxury brand names and well-heeled tourists than for sports attire and mud-splashed running shoes.
在活动的Facebook页面签到以后，我们在香榭丽舍大道的耐克旗舰店集合。这个跑步团总能激发无数路人的好奇心，我们当然都能理解。在以奢侈品品牌和富裕游客著称的香榭丽舍大道，这些身着运动装、脚下溅起泥浆的跑步者变成了一幅令人惊讶且印象深刻的风景。
As the light begins to fall, we set off for a run set to music that spans three to a bit more than four miles, punctuated with intense drills at major landmarks in the area led by the no-nonsense coaches.
天光渐暗，我们跟着音乐开始跑步。全程大约3英里至4英里多一点。每段步程以重要地标为分界点，届时教练会带领大家做一些强化训练，一点也不含糊。
After sweeping past a moon-washed Seine, for instance, runners may be commanded to drop to the ground in the courtyard of the Louvre for sets of situps, to the amusement of tourists and locals alike. Or runners may find themselves sprinting down the steps of Trocadéro, attention divided between the lights of the Eiffel Tower in the distance and a coach’s command to fly faster, stronger down the stairs.
比如，跑过月光下的塞纳河之后，教练会命令大家趴到卢浮宫院子的地面上做几组仰卧起坐，以娱乐现场的游客和本地人。或者，教练在特洛卡代罗广场让跑步者小跑冲下广场的台阶，于是大家的注意力就被分成两半，一半用来欣赏远处埃菲尔铁塔的夜景，一半用来应付教练更快更强跑下台阶的指令。
When I joined the Nike Running France group last September, I was a running dropout, having hit a wall of fatigue after completing several half marathons in my native Toronto.
去年9月，我刚参加耐克法兰西长跑的时候，还是个长跑的辍学生——在那之前，我在故乡多伦多参加过几次半程拉马松以后被巨大的疲倦感压倒了。
But running throughout the streets of Paris, where I moved three years ago, has renewed my love for the sport. And I am not alone: my running companions are Parisians, expats, tourists and transients; we are pastry chefs, graphic designers, students, teachers, mothers and journalists.
三年前我搬到了巴黎。在巴黎的街道跑步重新点燃了我对这项运动的热爱。而且我绝不孤独：与我一起跑步的有巴黎本地人，也有外国侨民、旅行者和在巴黎短暂居住的人。大家的职业包括糕点师、平面设计师、学生、教师、母亲和新闻记者。
As unlikely as it may seem, Paris seems to be developing a reputation as a runner’s paradise.
尽管听起来不可思议，但巴黎正在逐步确立跑步天堂的声誉。
According to Romain Boutevillain, company director of the timekeeping site Top Chrono, which organizes runs throughout the city, registration numbers for a series of races called the Paris Running Tour have been climbing steadily by about 10 percent every year since it began in 2007-8.
组织巴黎跑步活动的计时网站“顶级时钟”(Top Chrono)的总监罗曼·鲍特维莱(Romain Boutevillain)说，系列跑步活动“巴黎跑步之旅”(Paris Running Tour)自2007至2008年推出以来，注册用户一直以每年约10%的速度稳定增长。
Throughout the year, arrondissements in Paris map out 10-kilometer (6.2-mile) races designed to showcase their neighborhoods. This year, about 20,000 runners will compete in 14 runs. Recently, about 780 runners explored the 19th Arrondissement in a race that took them through hilly Buttes-Chaumont, arguably the prettiest park in the city, and the outer limits of the city’s northeast end, far from the usual tourist destinations.
一年四季，巴黎各辖区都会推出10公里（6.2英里）长的赛跑路线，沿途展示了该区域的美妙社区。今年，大约20000人将在14条路线上赛跑。最近，大约780名跑步者以赛跑的方式探索了第19区和城市东北端的风光，脚步所及远超过常规的旅游景点，途中路过的肖蒙山丘公园据说是巴黎最美的公园。
The city has also started a program called Top Chrono Timepoint in partnership with Top Chrono in which digital panels will be erected in three to five parks by the end of the year. Panels were recently installed in Parc Suzanne Lenglen in the 15th arrondissement. Runners who have purchased a personalized chip will be able to see their distance and progress displayed on the panels in real time.
该市还与顶级时钟网站合作，一起推出了“顶级时间点”(Top Chrono Timepoint)活动。到今年年底，他们将在巴黎的三至五座公园里竖起电子计数板。第15区苏珊朗格朗公园(Parc Suzanne Lenglen)里的电子板最近刚刚装好。用户购买一种个性化的芯片以后，就能在这些电子板上看到自己跑步的距离、进程等实时信息。
The new system also is intended to build more of a community among the city’s runners with a Facebook page that encourages members to share their results, organize rendezvous at Timepoint parks, and find friends who share a love of the sport, Mr. Boutevillain said.
鲍特维莱说，这种新系统也准备用Facebook页面为巴黎的跑步者创建一个在线社区，鼓励大家分享自己的跑步数据、在“时间点”公园会面，并结识热爱跑步的新朋友。
More occasional runners looking to befriend locals and stop for a beer or two along the way may want to consider a quirky group called Paris Hash House Harriers, which meets every other week.
临时来到巴黎、打算与当地人交朋友并喝上一两杯的跑步者，可以考虑参加一个叫做“巴黎捷兔跑步俱乐部”(Paris Hash House Harriers)的另类组织，他们每隔一周都有聚会活动。
Started in the 1930s in Malaysia by a group of British expatriates, Hash House Harriers has since grown into more than 2,000 groups around the world.
“捷兔跑步俱乐部”(Hash House Harriers)是一群旅居马来西亚的英国人在20世纪30年代建立的，现今在全球已经有2000多个分支。
Here’s how it works: A “hare” lays down the running course with a trail of flour from start to finish. Runners follow the visible markings on the ground to complete the route. To make things interesting, the hare will also lay down false trails with misleading arrows forcing the runners to backtrack if they’re led astray.
它的运作方法是：一只“野兔”用面粉画出跑步路线，从起点到终点都画。跑步者则追随自己在地上看到的标识，一直跑到终点。为了让活动更加好玩，有时候“野兔”会画出一些错误的路线来迷惑大家，参加者发现走入歧途后，必须重新返回正轨。
Earlier this year, on a run with a Chinese New Year theme, runners were taken along a 12-kilometer course through underground parking lots, shopping malls and Chinatown in the south of Paris. Near the end of the run, the marker the group had been chasing after made its appearance near Parc Montsouris — a beer stop. Runners fanned out in search of the beverages and stopped for a respite, some bière and friendly banter.
今年早些时候，在一次以中国新年为主题的活动中，跑者们在巴黎南部沿着地下停车场、购物中心和唐人街跑了12公里。快到终点的时候，跑步者在蒙苏里公园(Parc Montsouris)附近发现自己一直追随的标识物——啤酒——终于出现了。跑者们原地散开，寻找各种饮料，最后就着这些啤酒友好谈笑，享受终点休息。
Some of the most innovative runs in Paris this year have been organized by Nike. To promote Nike’s first women-only 10-kilometer race in Paris, the firm’s young creative team hosted a series of special training sessions during May that took 150 runners up to the roof of the Arc de Triomphe; rolled out the red carpet along the steps of the Sacré-Coeur Basilica to replicate the experience at the Cannes Film Festival; and brought in a few star rugby players to encourage participants. At another Nike event last winter, this one with Paris rooftops as its theme, 150 nocturnal runners were illuminated by fluorescent glow sticks and garlands. We stormed the uppermost floors of empty outdoor parking lots where we performed sprinting exercises; the upper deck of the Wanderlust nightclub along the Quai d’Austerlitz, where we dropped for rounds of ab work; and the rooftop of the Institut du Monde Arabe, where the climb to the top was rewarded with pulsing strobe lights, blaring tunes and sweeping views of the Seine and Notre Dame.
今年巴黎最有创意的跑步活动都由耐克公司组织。为了宣传耐克在巴黎的第一次全女性10公里长跑比赛，该公司年轻的创意团队在5月份主办了一系列专门的训练活动，包括150名跑步者跑到凯旋门的顶部；在圣心大教堂的台阶上铺上红地毯，模仿戛纳电影节的场景；并邀请几名橄榄球明星来吸引人们参加。去年冬天耐克的另一场活动以巴黎屋顶为主题，150名夜跑者自带荧光棒和荧光花环来照明。我们跑到空荡荡的户外停车场的顶层，表演短跑技巧；在奥斯特利兹码头流浪者夜总会的上层甲板上表演腹部健美操；后来又登上了阿拉伯世界研究院的房顶——这次登顶得到了极佳的回报，包括跃动的频闪灯、响亮的音乐以及塞纳河与巴黎圣母院的美丽风光。
En route, coaches lighted purple flares to announce the group’s presence. As we exited the Metro system, the stream of runners was showered with bags of confetti. And as we crossed a bridge over the Seine, fireworks appeared on both sides of the group, to light up the Parisian sky.
一路上，教练燃起紫色的火把来宣告这个团体的存在。当我们走出地铁时，人们纷纷向这群跑步者抛洒整袋整袋的彩纸。我们穿过塞纳河上的一座桥梁时，两侧燃起了焰火，照亮了巴黎的夜空。
CITY OF FLIGHT
奔跑之城
To join the Nike Running France sessions in Paris register through facebook.com/NikeRunningFrance. For the Tuesday runs that start at the Bastille Nike store, registration opens at noon the day before, and the cap is 150 people. For the Thursday runs starting at the Champs-Élysées Nike location, registration opens at around 6 p.m. Tuesdays and is capped at 150 to 200. There is no requirement to wear Nike apparel; runs are free and start at 8 p.m. Places fill up fast.
欲参加耐克法兰西长跑活动，请到facebook.com/NikeRunningFrance页面报名。每周二的长跑活动在耐克巴士底狱店(Bastille Nike store)集合，前一天正午时分报名，参与人员仅限150名。每周四的长跑活动在耐克香榭丽舍大道店集合，周二下午6点左右开始报名，参与人员仅限150至200名。不必专门穿耐克服装；参加跑步活动完全免费，晚上8点开跑。名额很快就会报满，欲参加须从速。
Paris Hash House Harriers runs are every other Saturday from a location disclosed at least five days in advance at parishash.wordpress.com. Its motto is “The Drinking Club With a Running Problem,” and things can get quite bawdy; it might not be everyone’s cup of beer. Runs are 5 euros, about $6.25 at $1.25 to the euro, to cover the cost of alcoholic beverages and post-run snacks.
巴黎捷兔跑步俱乐部每隔一周都有活动，时间是星期六，集合地点会在活动5天或之前在parishash.wordpress.com上明示。俱乐部的口号是“有跑步问题的醉酒俱乐部”，而且事态会发展到非常放纵的程度，所以这种畅饮跑步活动也许并不适合每个人。参加者需支付5欧元（根据欧元对美元1.25的汇率大约是6.25美元）活动费，来购买活动之后的啤酒等饮料以及零食小吃。
The online social networking forum Meetup also has active running groups for English speakers in Paris, like Paris Running Meetup Group, meetup.com/parisrunners, and Let’s Run Paris, meetup.com/Lets-Run-Paris.
在线社交论坛Meetup也有许多面向住在巴黎且讲英语的跑步群体，比如巴黎跑步聚会群（Paris Running Meetup Group，网址：meetup.com/parisrunners）和畅跑巴黎（Let’s Run Paris，网址：meetup.com/Lets-Run-Paris）。