The latest search for MH370 — the Malaysia Airlines plane that disappeared four years ago en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing with 239 people onboard — has ended in failure, the company behind the search said on Tuesday.
四年前，一架搭载239人从吉隆坡飞往北京的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)班机在途中失踪。负责最新一次搜寻的公司周二表示，对马航370的此次搜寻以失败告终。
The company, Ocean Infinity of Houston, which scoured the seabed for any sign of wreckage with support from the Malaysian government, announced that the search was winding down with no evidence of the plane’s whereabouts.
在马来西亚政府的支持下，休斯顿海洋无限公司(Ocean Infinity)为了寻找残骸，对海床进行了彻底搜索。该公司宣布，随着搜寻的结束，并没得到有关飞机下落的证据。
“Part of our motivation for renewing the search was to try to provide some answers to those affected,” Oliver Plunkett, Ocean Infinity’s chief executive, said in a statement. “It is therefore with a heavy heart that we end our current search without having achieved that aim.”
“我们重启搜索的部分目的在于试图为那些受影响的人们提供一些答案，”海洋无限的首席执行官奥利弗·普伦基特(Oliver Plunkett)在声明中说。“因此，在没有实现目标的情况下结束目前的搜寻，我们的心情十分沉痛。”
He did not rule out a future resumed hunt.
他并未排除未来重启搜寻的可能。
The plane, a Boeing 777 operated by Malaysia Airlines, deviated from its planned route north on March 8, 2014, for reasons that are still unknown. After traveling south over the Indian Ocean, the plane is believed to have flown for about five hours before probably running out of fuel and disappearing.
这架波音777飞机由马来西亚航空运营。2014年3月8日，它从向北的航线偏离，原因依然未知。据信，飞机向南飞进印度洋后仍然飞行了大约五个小时，才耗尽燃料失踪。
Debris that may have come from the plane has washed up in Madagascar, Réunion Island and Tanzania.
马达加斯加、留尼汪岛和坦桑尼亚都曾有疑似来自该飞机的残骸被冲刷上岸。
The governments of Australia, Malaysia and China suspended the official search after scrutinizing about 46,000 square miles of the Indian Ocean floor at a cost of more than $150 million. Officials then concluded that the probable crash site was farther north.
在印度洋海底进行了大约4.6万平方英里（约合11.9万平方公里）的细致搜寻、花费超过1.5亿美元后，澳大利亚、马来西亚和中国的政府都暂停了官方搜索。随后，官方推断，坠机地点可能在更北的地方。
The Malaysian government began the latest search in partnership with Ocean Infinity after pressure from families of the missing.
迫于失踪人员家属的压力，马来西亚政府开始与海洋无限合作，展开了这次最新搜寻。
Ocean Infinity agreed to participate as part of what the Malaysian government called a “no cure, no fee” agreement, under which the company could have received up to $70 million if it found the wreckage or data recorders, and nothing if it did not. The Seabed Constructor, a ship operated by the company, set out in January to being searching.
海洋无限同意以马来西亚政府所谓的“没发现，不收钱”协议展开合作。根据协议，该公司若能找到飞机残骸或数据记录器，最高可获得7000万美元；找不到，则一无所获。该公司运营的“海底建造者”(Seabed Constructor)号于一月启程，开始了搜寻工作。
In a little over three months of searching, the investigation covered almost the same-sized area as the previous search had completed in two and a half years, Ocean Infinity said in its statement.
海洋无限在声明中表示，在三个月多一点的搜寻过程中，调查几乎覆盖了与上一次历时两年半的搜寻大小相同的区域。
But the investigators came no closer to finding the plane.
但是有关飞机的下落，调查人员没有任何进展。
Mr. Plunkett thanked Seabed Constructor crew members “who have worked tirelessly,” and called the Australian Transport Safety Bureau’s dedication to find the plane “unwavering.”
普伦基特对海底建造者号上“不知疲倦工作”的船员们表达了谢意，还称澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)寻找飞机的态度“十分坚定”。
“We sincerely hope that we will be able to again offer our services in the search for MH370 in future,” he said.
“我们诚挚地希望，将来能再次为寻找马航370提供我们的服务，”他说。