LONDON — Visitors to England right now, be warned. The big topic on people’s minds — from cabdrivers to corporate executives — is not Kate Middleton’s increasingly visible baby bump (though the craze does involve the size of one’s waistline), but rather a best-selling diet book that has sent the British into a fasting frenzy.
伦敦——现在到英国来的游客们，请注意。从计程车司机到企业高管，人们心中最重大的话题并不是凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)日渐隆起的腹部。不过令他们狂热的话题确实与腰围尺寸相关，是一本让英国陷入禁食狂潮的畅销节食书。
“The Fast Diet,” published in mid-January in Britain, has held the No. 1 slot on Amazon’s British site nearly every day since its publication in January, according to Rebecca Nicolson, a founder of Short Books, the independent publishing company behind the sensation. “It is selling,” she said, “like hot cakes,” which coincidentally are something one can actually eat on this revolutionary diet.
《快速节食》(The Fast Diet)于1月中旬在英国出版后，引发了轰动。这场轰动背后的独立出版公司Short Books的创始人丽贝卡·尼科尔森(Rebecca Nicolson)说，该书自1月出版以来，几乎每天都位居亚马逊(Amazon)英国网站的畅销榜首。“卖得很好，”她说，“就像薄煎饼一样”，而薄煎饼刚好是人们在实行这种革命性的节食计划时可以吃的东西。
With an alluring cover line that reads, “Lose Weight, Stay Healthy, Live Longer,” the premise of this latest weight-loss regimen — or “slimming” as the British call “dieting” — is intermittent fasting, or what has become known here as the 5:2 diet: five days of eating and drinking whatever you want, dispersed with two days of fasting.
书的封面上印着一句颇有诱惑力的话，“减轻体重、保持健康、延年益寿”，这种最新减重法的前提是间歇性禁食（英国人通常把“节食减肥”[dieting]称作“纤体”[slimming]），也就是这里所谓的5:2节食方案，即在五天时间里，你可以随意吃喝，然后用两天的禁食来消耗这些能量。
A typical fasting day consists of two meals of roughly 250 to 300 calories each, depending on the person’s sex (500 calories for women, 600 for men). Think two eggs and a slice of ham for breakfast, and a plate of steamed fish and vegetables for dinner.
禁食的时候，每天只能吃两餐，每餐热量大概为250到300卡路里，这取决于节食者的性别（女性为每日500卡路里，男性为每日600卡路里）。早餐时，你可以吃两颗鸡蛋和一片火腿；晚餐时，吃一碟蒸鱼和蔬菜。
It is not much sustenance, but the secret to weight loss, according to the book, is that even after just a few hours of fasting, the body begins to turn off the fat-storing mechanisms and turn on the fat-burning systems.
这些食物不多，但是据此书所言，减肥的诀窍在于，即便只是禁食几个小时，之后人体也会开始关闭脂肪储存机制，并开启脂肪燃烧系统。
“I’ve always been into self-experimentation,” said Dr. Michael Mosley, one of the book’s two authors and a well-known medical journalist on the BBC.
本书的两名作者之一、BBC著名的医学记者迈克尔·莫斯利(Michael Mosley)说，“我一直非常热衷于自我实验。”
He researched the science of the diet and its health benefits by putting himself through intermittent fasting and filming it for a BBC documentary last August called “Eat, Fast and Live Longer.”
他通过亲身经历，对这种节食法的科学原理和健康益处进行了研究。他强迫自己尝试间歇性禁食，并将整个过程拍摄下来作为BBC去年8月的纪录片《饮食、禁食，更长寿》(Eat, Fast and Live Longer)的素材。
“This started because I was not feeling well last year,” Dr. Mosley said recently over a cup of tea and half a cookie (it was not one of his fasting days). “It turns out I was suffering from high blood sugar, high cholesterol and had a kind of visceral fat inside my gut.”
最近的一天，莫斯利喝着茶，享用着半块曲奇（那天他不用禁食），一边说，“我之所以开始这项实验，是因为去年觉得身体欠佳。结果检查出我有高血糖和高胆固醇，而且肠道内还有某种内脏脂肪。”
Though hardly obese at the time, at 5 feet 11 inches and 187 pounds, Dr. Mosley, 55, had a body mass index and body fat percentage that were a few points higher than the recommended amount for men. “Given that my father had died at age 73 of complications from diabetes, and I was now looking prediabetic, I knew something had to change,” he added.
莫斯利现年55岁，虽然当时他算不上肥胖，但是身高5英尺11英寸（约1.8米）、体重187磅（约84.9公斤）的莫斯利的身体质量指数和体脂率要比男性标准高出一些。他还说，“我父亲73岁时死于糖尿病并发症，我现在也出现了一些濒临糖尿病的症状，我知道必须做出改变。”
The result was a documentary, almost the opposite of “Super Size Me,” in which Dr. Mosley not only fasted, but also interviewed scientific researchers, mostly in the United States, about the positive results of various forms of intermittent fasting, tested primarily on rats but in some cases human volunteers. The prominent benefits, he discovered, were weight loss, a lower risk of cancer and heart disease, and increased energy.
结果便诞生了一部纪录片，这个纪录片几乎与《超大号的我》(Super Size Me)截然相反。莫斯利在片中不仅禁食，而且还就各种间歇性禁食的积极效果，对几名科研人员进行了采访（大部分在美国）。这些间歇性禁食方式的试验对象主要是老鼠，有些研究中也有人类志愿者接受试验。他发现，其主要好处包括减轻体重、降低患癌症和心脏病的风险，以及增加体能。
“The body goes into a repair-and-recover mode when it no longer has the work of storing the food being consumed,” he said.
他说，“一旦人体不需要储存吃进去的食物，它就会进入一种修补与恢复的模式。”
Though Dr. Mosley quickly gave up on the most extreme forms of fasting (he ate little more than one cup of low-calorie soup every 24 hours for four consecutive days in his first trial), he finally settled on the 5:2 ratio as a more sustainable, less painful option that could realistically be followed without annihilating his social life or work.
莫斯利在第一次试验中，连续四天每24小时只食用一杯多一点低卡路里的汤汁。但他很快就放弃了最极端的禁食方案，最终决定采用5:2的模式，因为这种做法更容易坚持而又不那么痛苦，能够切实付诸实践，而又不破坏他的社会生活和工作。
“Our earliest antecedents,” Dr. Mosley argued, “lived a feast-or-famine existence, gorging themselves after a big hunt and then not eating until they scored the next one.” Similarly, he explained, temporary fasting is a ritual of religions like Islam and Judaism — as demonstrated by Ramadan and Yom Kippur. “We shouldn’t have a fear of hunger if it is just temporary,” he said.
“我们最早的祖先，”莫斯利辩称，“就生活在大快朵颐和忍饥挨饿的反差间。如果猎物丰盛，他们就会饱餐一顿，然后在下一次收获猎物之前都吃不到东西。”他解释道，同样地，在伊斯兰教和犹太教等宗教中，暂时性的禁食是一种仪式，例如斋月和赎罪日。他说，“如果饥饿只是暂时性的，我们就不必害怕它。”
What Dr. Mosley found most astounding, however, were his personal results. Not only did he lose 20 pounds (he currently weighs 168 pounds) in nine weeks, but his glucose and cholesterol levels went down, as did his body fat. “What’s more, I have a whole new level of energy,” he said.
然而，莫斯利认为最令人震惊的是他自己的变化。九周之内，他不仅减了20磅（他目前的体重是168磅），而且血糖和胆固醇都降低了，体脂也减少了。他说，“此外，我的体能也上了一个新台阶。”
The documentary became an instant hit, which in turn led Mimi Spencer, a food and fashion writer, to propose that they collaborate on a book. “I could see this was not a faddish diet but one that was sustainable with long-term health results, beyond the obvious weight-loss benefit,” said Ms. Spencer, 45, who has lost 20 pounds on the diet within four months and lowered her B.M.I. by 2 points.
这部纪录片迅速走红，并促使美食及时尚作家米米·斯潘塞(Mimi Spencer)提议两人合作出书。45岁的斯潘塞表示，“我能看出这不是那种只会风行一时的节食方法，而是一种能持续下去的方法，除了产生明显的减肥效果外，它还能持久改善健康状况。”斯潘塞通过这种节食方法，在四个月内减掉了20磅，身体质量指数下降两个点。
The result is a 200-page paperback: the first half written by Dr. Mosley outlining the scientific findings of intermittent fasting; the second by Ms. Spencer, with encouraging text on how to get through the first days of fasting, from keeping busy so you don’t hear your rumbling belly, to waiting 15 minutes for your meal or snack.
结果两人出版了一本200页的平装书：莫斯利在前半部分概述了有关间歇性禁食的科学发现，斯潘塞在后半部分以鼓舞的笔调，介绍了人们该如何熬过禁食的最初几天。她提出了各种建议，比如保持忙碌就不会听到肚子咕咕作响，等待15分钟再进餐或吃点心。
She also provides fasting recipes with tantalizing photos like feta niçoise salad and Mexican pizza, and a calorie counter at the back.
她还提供了一些禁食食谱，并附上一些诱人的图片，比如尼斯羊奶酪沙拉和墨西哥披萨，还在书后附赠卡路里计量表。
In London, the diet has taken off with the help of well-known British celebrity chefs and food writers like Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, who raved about it in The Guardian after his sixth day of fasting, having already lost eight pounds. (“I feel lean and sharper,” he wrote, “and find the whole thing rather exhilarating.”)
在休·费恩利-惠廷斯托尔(Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall)，及其他英国明星大厨和知名美食作家的推广下，这种节食方法在伦敦大受欢迎。惠廷斯托尔禁食六天后，在《卫报》(The Guardian)上发表文章称赞该方法，当时他已经减掉八磅。（“我感觉自己变瘦，变敏捷了，”他写道，“而且感觉整个过程相当愉快。”）
The diet is also particularly popular among men, according to Dr. Mosley, who has heard from many of his converts via e-mail and Twitter, where he has around 24,000 followers. “They find it easy to work into their schedules because dieting for a day here and there doesn’t feel torturous,” he said.
莫斯利透露，这种节食方法在男性中尤为流行，有很多听从莫斯利建议使用该方法的人，给他发了电子邮件或在Twitter与他交流。莫斯利在Twitter上大约有2.4万个粉丝。他说，“他们发现很容易安排节食时间，因为时不时地节食一天并不会感到痛苦。”
But not everyone is singing the diet’s praises. The National Health Service, Britain’s publicly funded medical establishment, put out a statement on its Web site shortly after the book came out: “Despite its increasing popularity, there is a great deal of uncertainty about I.F. (intermittent fasting) with significant gaps in the evidence.”
但并非所有人都对这种方法表达了赞赏。在该书出版后不久，英国公立医疗机构国家医疗服务体系(National Health Service)就在其网站上发表了一份声明，称“尽管间歇式禁食越来越普及，但这种方法仍然存在很多不确定性，证据方面也存在极大的不足。”
The health agency also listed some side effects, including bad breath, anxiety, dehydration and irritability. Yet people in London do not seem too concerned.
该机构还列出了口臭、焦虑、脱水和易怒等副作用。但在伦敦，人们似乎不太在乎。