For the shoe designer Christian Louboutin, the cinema of India has always been a magical, otherworldly, Technicolor fantasy. He heads to the Marrakesh film festival to meet his favorite stars of the screen.
鞋履设计师克里斯提·鲁布托(Christian Louboutin)一直都觉得印度电影是一个神秘脱俗、充满鲜艳色彩的奇幻世界。他来到马拉喀什电影节寻访自己最喜欢的印度影星。
I WAS BORN IN PARIS in the mid-1960s, and by the time I was 12 I had started going to the movies by myself. Most of the movies of that period never appealed to me. I didn’t like the “naturalism,” the sad or the “down-to-earth” characters. What I wanted from film was fantasy, dreams, funny situations, extravagant décor — and beautiful women. If the sets were not gorgeous, at least the actresses had to be! I favored films from the ’30s, ’40s and ’50s, and cared about only a few Western directors: Luis Buñuel, for his sense of surrealism and madness, and Federico Fellini and Luchino Visconti, whose appeal requires no explanation.
我出生在20世纪60年代中期的巴黎，到12岁的时候，我开始自己去看电影。当时上映的大多数电影都无法吸引我。我不喜欢什么“自然主义”，也不喜欢那些悲伤的或者那些“实实在在”的人物。我从电影中寻找的是奇幻、梦境、有趣的情景、华丽的装饰——还有漂亮的女人。如果布景不美丽，那女演员至少要漂亮！我喜欢20世纪30、40、50年代的作品，只喜欢少数几个西方导演，比如路易斯·布努埃尔(Luis Buñuel)，我喜欢他那种超现实和疯狂的感觉，还有费德里科·费里尼(Federico Fellini)和鲁西诺·维斯康蒂(Luchino Visconti)，他们的魅力不言自明。
Nothing compared to my romance with Indian cinema, which remains passionate to this day. I loved these magical movies, which combined great acting with exhilarating soundtracks that stuck in my head for weeks. At school, I talked so much about actors like Hema Malini and Dilip Kumar that my classmates considered me an alien. I have so many memories: going to the cinémathèque as a teen to greet the fabulous director Satyajit Ray; crying along with “Devi,” one of the most fantastic Bengali movies; taking a trip to Chennai to visit some of the movie studios; and a bit later, trying to imitate Shah Rukh Khan dancing.
我对印度电影的爱恋无与伦比，到现在还一直充满激情。我喜欢那些神奇的电影，既有精彩的表演，也有欢快的音乐，它们萦绕在我的脑海里，几个星期都徘徊不去。在学校，我滔滔不绝地谈起赫玛·马里尼(Hema Malini)和德里普·库马尔(Dilip Kumar)这些演员，同学们都把我当外星人。我有太多回忆了：十几岁的时候去影院欢迎著名导演萨蒂亚吉特·雷伊(Satyajit Ray)；他的《女神》(Devi)是最精彩的孟加拉语电影之一，我边看边哭；我还曾经去印度金奈参观过几个片厂；再后来还模仿过沙鲁克·汗(Shah Rukh Khan)跳舞。
Bollywood celebrated its 100-year anniversary in 2012. When Melita Toscan du Plantier, the director of the Marrakesh film festival, told me that the festival would be paying homage to Indian cinema, I immediately booked a room at La Mamounia hotel for the event, held this past December. I knew it was not to be missed.
2012年，宝莱坞迎来了百年庆典，马拉喀什电影节的导演麦莉塔·托斯坎·杜·普朗蒂尔(Melita Toscan du Plantier)告诉我，电影节会向印度电影致敬，我马上就在拉玛穆尼亚酒店(La Mamounia)定了房间（于去年12月举行）。我不能错过这样的盛事。
THE SCENE
场面
The Marrakesh film festival is small enough to still feel personal. The actors are able to relax and enjoy the sights, the sounds and — since this is Morocco — some truly delicious food. This year the festival was dominated by the Bollywood celebration, and the amount of glamour generated by all those beauties in saris was intense. I was star-struck, but I was also on a mission, working on a portfolio of Bollywood stars with the help of my photographer friend Ali Mahdavi. We saw movies and traipsed down red carpets that reminded me of the Cannes Film Festival before it began to look like a military bunker. The actors were like students on a class trip, staying up late, laughing and dancing. This is of course the spirit of Bollywood — dancing on- and off-screen. Isabelle Huppert chatted with the Indian Visconti, Karan Johar. Monica Bellucci, dressed in a long shahtoosh, blended in perfectly with the crowd. Apart from Brazilian mines, or Miss Taylor’s house, I had never seen so many precious stones in one room!
马拉喀什电影节很小，让人有亲切感。演员们可以放松享受美景和音乐，因为这里是摩洛哥，所以还可以吃到真正美味的食物。这一年的电影节主题是宝莱坞庆典，穿着纱丽的美女们真是令人目不暇接。我被明星们镇住了，但我还有别的任务，要在我的摄影师朋友阿里·马赫达维(Ali Mahdavi)帮助下，为宝莱坞明星们拍影集。我们看了电影，走了红毯，让我想起从前的戛纳电影节，后来戛纳就变得好像军营了。在这里，演员们就像集体出游的学生们一样，很晚都不睡觉、大笑、跳舞。当然，这就是宝莱坞的精神，影片内外都要跳舞。伊莎贝拉·休伯特(Isabelle Huppert)和印度的维斯孔蒂——卡伦·乔哈尔(Karan Johar)交谈。莫妮卡·贝鲁奇(Monica Bellucci)披着长长的羊绒披肩，和观众们打成一片。除了在巴西的钻石矿，还有泰勒小姐（指伊丽莎白·泰勒——译注）家里，我还从没见过这么多珍贵的宝石汇聚一堂。
THE STARS
明星
Bollywood stars are versatile; they not only act, but each one has the dance skills of John Travolta in “Saturday Night Fever.” The actor Hrithik Roshan, who was at the festival promoting his recent film “Agneepath,” is like James Dean, but with the body language of Elvis. The superstar Shah Rukh Khan is something like Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt combined. It’s difficult to describe his magnetic presence; everyone turns toward him when he enters the room. The actress Malaika Arora Khan reminds me of the Hindu deity Parvati: one is inscribed in limestone, the other on film, but both are clearly goddesses.
宝莱坞明星们都多才多艺；他们不止会演戏，每个人都像约翰·特拉沃塔(John Travolta)在《周六夜狂热》(Saturday Night Fever)里那样会跳舞。演员赫里尼克·罗斯汉(Hrithik Roshan)在电影节上宣传他的新片《火之通途》(Agneepath)，他长得像詹姆斯·迪恩(James Dean)，但肢体语言却像埃尔维斯·普莱斯利(Elvis Presley)。超级明星沙鲁克·汗有点像汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)和布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)合体。他的吸引力很难用语言形容；当他走进房间时，所有人目光都落在他身上。女演员玛拉伊卡·奥罗拉·汗(Malaika Arora Khan)让我想起印度神祗帕尔瓦蒂(Parvati)：一个是石灰岩上的雕像，一个是银幕上的女星，但二者显然都是女神。
MY FANTASY COMES TRUE
幻想成真
My job is designing shoes. It’s work that happens behind the scenes, as they say, and that suits me just fine because in general I am a shy person. But sometimes I have these extroverted outbursts. Being in the presence of Amitabh Bachchan, the godfather of Bollywood, and one of the most stylish men on earth, was not going to help me remain at ease — I am such a big fan of his. But I kept it together thanks to his impeccable manners, until I met Sridevi. Now in her late 40s, she was once known as the Shirley Temple of India. She first appeared on screen at age 4; 19 years later she was in a movie dancing wildly like a snake. She carried herself — forgive my gushing — as the queen that she is, like Elizabeth Taylor entering Rome as Cleopatra. Ali, my photographer friend, forced me to take Mrs. Sridevi in my arms. She seemed amused by my strange behavior, but I was a little freaked out, holding my idol. She probably could never have imagined that she represented such a big chapter of my fantasy life as a child. Or that this was a moment I would never forget.
我的工作就是设计鞋子。这是他们所谓的幕后工作，这很适合我，因为我基本上是个羞涩的人。但有时候我也会突然外向起来。阿米特巴·巴强(Amitabh Bachchan)是宝莱坞教父，也是世界上最时尚的人之一，见到他时我不禁局促不安，因为我是他的忠实崇拜者。多亏了他那完美的风度，我才保持了冷静，后来我又见到了希里黛玉(Sridevi)。年近半百的她当年一度被认为是印度的秀兰·邓波儿(Shirley Temple)。她从4岁就开始演电影，19年后，开始在电影里像蛇一样翩翩起舞。她的风度——请原谅我滔滔不绝——就像女王，也就是伊丽莎白·泰勒(Elizabeth Taylor)饰演的克里奥佩特拉女王进入罗马时的模样。我的摄影师伙伴阿里逼着我用胳膊抱着希里黛玉女士，她似乎被我古怪的举止逗乐了，但是抱着自己的偶像让我有点惊恐。她或许根本无法想像她在我孩提时代的幻想中占据了多么重要的一章，也无法想像这一刻对我来说有多么难忘。