On a recent Wednesday evening outside Happy Ending, a sceney Lower East Side bar, a throng of fashionable would-be revelers awaited appraisal.
前不久一个周三的晚上，在下东区著名的幸福结局酒吧(Happy Ending)外，一群准备狂欢的时尚人士在等候核准。
Evidence submitted to gain entry included a business card from Givenchy, name-dropping the bar’s owners, and text messages from cronies already inside. Julio Montero, 31, the stocky, dark-jacketed doorman, scrutinized the unfamiliar faces and weighed the veracity of their testimonials. Some didn’t pass muster.
要想进去，需要出示纪梵希(Givenchy)的名片，说出酒吧老板的名字，展示已经在里面的密友的短信。门卫是31岁的胡利奥·蒙特罗(Julio Montero)，他健壮结实，穿着黑色上衣。他仔细审核那些不常见的人，衡量证明文件的可信度。有些人没有被准入。
One European man in his 30s, who wore a fur vest and fedora, unspooled a string a profanities after being rebuffed at the door. Mr. Montero remained amicably unruffled. “You can’t take that personal,” he said as the man staggered off. “You hurt them more by ignoring them. That’s part of the night. In the daytime you forget about it.”
一个穿裘皮背心、戴软呢帽的30多岁欧洲男人在门口被拒绝后，说了一串脏话。蒙特罗依然保持温和平静。“你不能往心里去，”那个男人蹒跚离去后，蒙特罗说，“你不理会他们，对他们的伤害更大。这是晚上工作的一部分。白天你就忘了。”
In a city where velvet ropes are standard issue, Mr. Montero is the rare doorman whose mere presence lends an imprimatur of downtown cool. After working as security at the fabled Beatrice Inn, he has been a familiar sentinel at such of-the-moment spots as Kenmare, Red Egg and Le Baron (both in Chinatown and in Miami Beach during Art Basel).
在纽约，俱乐部和酒吧设置入门权限是常规做法，但是蒙特罗是一位罕见的门卫，他在哪里出现，就证明那里是城里最酷的地方。在著名的比阿特丽斯酒店酒吧(Beatrice Inn)担任保安之后，他经常担任最热门的酒吧的门卫，比如Kenmare、Red Egg和Le Baron（包括在中国城的分店以及巴塞尔艺术展[Art Basel]期间在迈阿密海滩的游击店）。
“Julio knows our clientele inside and out,” said Max Levai, an owner of Happy Ending and the director of the Marlborough Chelsea gallery, a younger and hipper offshoot of the Marlborough Gallery, run by his father, Pierre Levai. “This is not something that can be taught.”
“胡利奥非常熟悉我们的客户，”幸福结局酒吧的一位老板马克斯·勒韦(Max Levai)说。勒韦也是马尔伯勒切尔西画廊(Marlborough Chelsea)的总监。该画廊是其父皮埃尔·勒韦(Pierre Levai)经营的马尔伯勒画廊(Marlborough Gallery)的分店，比总店更年轻，更时髦。“这是学不来的。”
But Mr. Montero’s place in the night-life firmament is not limited to the door. Along with Justin Galifi, he founded Montro Protection, which provides bouncers for events and whose clients have included the Surf Lodge, Yves Saint Laurent, BLK DNM and Vulcan Protection, which supplies uniformed watchmen for construction sites around New York.
不过，蒙特罗在夜生活圈的角色不仅限于看门。他和贾斯汀·加利菲(Justin Galifi)一起创建了蒙特罗保安公司(Montro Protection)和武尔坎保安公司(Vulcan Protection)。前者为各种活动提供保镖，客户包括冲浪旅馆(Surf Lodge)、伊夫·圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)和黑色单宁(BLK DNM)；后者为纽约各地的工地提供穿制服的保安。
“I didn’t want to be an employee forever,” Mr. Montero said of his entrepreneurial endeavors.
“我不想一直当雇员，”蒙特罗提起自己的事业时说。
He was seated in his Chelsea office, a dormitory-like space with mismatched desks and fuzzy classical music humming from the radio. He wore a black Armani suit and a pristine white shirt.
他坐在切尔西自己的办公室里，那里像个宿舍，有几张样式不一的办公桌，收音机里传来失真的古典音乐。他穿着一身黑色阿玛尼西服和一件纯白衬衫。
“Most security companies are run by retired N.Y.P.D. with no sense of fashion or art,” Mr. Montero said. “Their thing is the big militant guy. For me, that hasn’t worked. I was talkative and wanted to meet you. I never had to really put hands on anyone.”
“大部分保安公司是由纽约退休警察经营的，他们对时尚和艺术没有感觉，”蒙特罗说，“他们提供的都是大块头的好斗的家伙。在我看来，那没什么用。我很健谈，喜欢结识朋友。我从来不必真的动手。”
Mr. Montero was born in the Dominican Republic, the only boy among seven sisters in a poor family. His mother immigrated to New York alone, working in a perfume factory and scraping together enough savings to bring her children north.
蒙特罗出生在多米尼加共和国，家境贫寒，他是家里唯一的男孩，有七个姐妹。他妈妈独自移民到纽约，在一家香水工厂工作，攒够了钱搬到了北部。
Mr. Montero and several siblings arrived in Hunts Point in the South Bronx in 1990. “It was gnarly,” he said of the neighborhood. “There were naked prostitutes walking around the streets, graffiti everywhere and homeless guys lighting fires. It was like what you would see in ‘The Warriors.’ ”
1990年，蒙特罗和几个姐妹到达南布朗克斯的亨茨波因特(Hunts Point)。提起那个地方，他说，“环境很糟糕。赤裸的妓女在街上四处走动，到处都是涂鸦，流浪汉到处点火。就像你在《战士帮》(The Warriors)中看到的情景。”
After graduating from William Howard Taft High School in the Bronx, Mr. Montero needed a job and, through a friend, found his way into night-life security. While not physically imposing, his brusque confidence gives him heft. “It was not a passion,” he said. “I had a daughter, and I had to work.”
从布朗克斯的威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱高中(William Howard Taft High School)毕业后，蒙特罗需要一份工作。通过一位朋友介绍，他当上了夜总会保安。虽然他的外形不是很突出，但他强烈的自信给他加了分。“那不是因为我对工作有激情，”他说，“而是因为我有个女儿，我必须工作。”
Working for security companies that outsourced staff members to clubs and bars, he had stints at a pool hall in Flushing, Queens, then Solas, a lounge in the East Village. A few years later, an opportunity arose when his employer assigned Mr. Montero to a temporary shift at the Beatrice Inn.
他先是为那些给俱乐部和酒吧提供保安的保安公司工作，在皇后区法拉盛的一个台球厅和东村的Solas酒吧短暂工作过。几年后，雇主派他去比阿特丽斯酒店酒吧临时代班，机会来了。
The bar, owned by Paul Sevigny and André Saraiva, was a noted playground for celebrities like Lindsay Lohan and the Olsen twins. Mr. Montero, unaware of its gilded reputation, arrived wearing a suit, tie and bulletproof vest. Mr. Sevigny asked him if he “thought he was in Vietnam.” Still, a week later, he hired Mr. Montero full time. “Paul likes crazy,” Mr. Montero said, with a laugh.
比阿特丽斯酒店酒吧的主人是保罗·塞维尼(Paul Sevigny)和安德烈·萨赖瓦(André Saraiva)。林赛·洛汉(Lindsay Lohan)和奥尔森(Olsen)双胞胎兄弟等名人喜欢去那个酒吧玩乐，因此它很出名。蒙特罗不知道那个酒吧的名气那么大，他去的时候穿着西服，打着领带，穿着防弹背心。塞维尼问他是不是“以为自己在越南”。不过，一周后，他还是聘用蒙特罗做全职门卫。“保罗喜欢疯狂，”蒙特罗大笑着说。
“It was the hottest place on the planet, by far,” Mr. Montero added. “I knew I had to keep it professional. Some people spit at you, and you just take it. Get a napkin and wipe it off.”
“到目前为止，那里曾是地球上最热门的地方，”蒙特罗补充说，“我知道自己必须保持专业。有些人对你吐口水，你只能接受。拿张纸巾擦掉就好。”
When the Beatrice Inn closed in 2009, he joined the diaspora of employees – including Mr. Sevigny, Angelo Bianchi and Simonez Wolf — who spread across New York’s nocturnal landscape. Two years ago, with Mr. Saraiva’s financial help, Mr. Montero started Montro Protection to utilize his spider web of night-life connections. Today, he sends out several dozen employees to clubs, art openings and construction sites.
2009年，比阿特丽斯酒店酒吧关门了，他和其他一些员工——包括塞维尼、安杰洛·比安基(Angelo Bianchi)和西蒙尼·沃尔夫(Simonez Wolf)——流散在纽约各地的夜生活图景中。两年前，在萨赖瓦的资助下，蒙特罗开设了蒙特罗保安公司，以充分利用自己的夜生活关系网。如今，他向俱乐部、艺术活动开幕式和工地派遣几十名员工。
Most crucially, the company has given Mr. Montero an exit strategy for when the party dwindles. “You don’t want to wake up 40 years old and be at the door,” he said.
最重要的是，在派对文化衰落时，这家公司给蒙特罗提供了一个出路。“我不想40岁时，发现自己还在看门，”他说。