WASHINGTON — The news Friday that the Supreme Court will rule on same-sex marriage brought elation from gays and lesbians who are hopeful the justices will grant them the constitutional protections they have long sought.
华盛顿——周五传出的最高法院将就同性婚姻作出判决的消息，令男女同性恋者欢呼雀跃。他们相信法官将为他们提供他们一直在寻求的宪法保护。
But another group also saw a possible reason to celebrate if the court does indeed rule that way: Republicans.
然而，倘若法院果真做出那样的裁决，另一群人可能也会找到一个庆祝的理由：共和党人。
If the high court resolves the issue as expected in June, it could deliver a decision that has the benefit of largely neutralizing a debate that a majority of Americans believe Republicans are on the wrong side of — and well ahead of the party’s 2016 presidential primaries.
共和党2016年的总统初选在即，如果最高法院按照预期的那样解决这个问题——时间预计在6月——将在很大程度上消除一个争论。对于这个争论，大部分美国人都认为共和党人站到了错误的一边。
To have the question disposed of and dispensed with, many Republicans say, could make their opinions on the matter largely moot, providing a political escape hatch that gives them an excuse to essentially say: “It’s been settled. Let’s move on.”
许多共和党人都表示，如果这个问题能得到处理，并被抛开，他们关于这个问题的观点也就无关紧要了，从而使他们获得一个政治上的逃生舱口，让他们有理由说：“这个问题解决了。我们继续前进吧。”
When the Supreme Court said it would take up the question, the reticence to wade into the debate was evident. In most corners of the party — and, notably, from those who are likely to seek the Republican presidential nomination — there was silence late last week. The desire to calibrate unremarkable and inoffensive responses shows how the debate over same-sex marriage significantly departs from other major constitutional questions on social issues like abortion and why, unlike abortion, it may not endure as an issue.
当最高法院表示将着手处理这个问题时，不愿涉足相关讨论的意愿比较明显。大部分共和党人——尤其是那些可能寻求共和党总统提名的人——上周末都颇为安静。他们希望能制定出一个无可指摘的、不会冒犯人的回答。这种意愿表明，关于同性婚姻的争论为何会与堕胎等其他社会事件相关的重大宪法问题存在巨大差异，以及为什么——和堕胎不同——它不会是一个持续存在的问题。
After Roe v. Wade was decided in 1973, anti-abortion groups were galvanized to overturn what the court had done through either a constitutional amendment or the appointment of like-minded jurists on all levels of the federal bench. It is a fight that rages on today. “Good luck in a Republican primary saying the Supreme Court has decided the abortion issue and we should move on,” said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster. “That’s what you call a nonstarter.”
1973年，当罗伊诉韦德案(Roe v. Wade)做出裁决后，反堕胎团体非常激动，想通过修宪或者在各级联邦法院任命与他们想法相似的法官，来推翻法院的判决。如今，这场战斗仍在继续。“想在共和党初选中看到说最高法院已经对堕胎问题作出裁决了，我们应该向前看？祝你好运，”共和党民意调查专家惠特·艾尔斯(Whit Ayres)说。“那是不可能的事。”
And yet that is exactly what many Republicans have started to say about same-sex marriage. Few expect the same kind of mass movement to grow out of a decision that declares a constitutional protection to marry, nor do they envision the Republican primary process being dominated by litmus-test questions like the ones candidates face on abortion — “Would you support a constitutional ban?” and “Would you pledge to appoint only justices who would overturn?”
然而，许多共和党人在同性婚姻问题上恰恰在表达这种观点。很少有人认为，在法院宣布为同性婚姻提供宪法保护后，会引起同样的大规模运动；他们也不认为，共和党的初选过程会充斥着候选人在堕胎问题上所面临的试金石般的问题——“你支持宪法对此进行禁止吗？”，以及“你是否会承诺只任命那些想推翻裁决结果的法官？”
Polling shows that support for abortion rights is about where it was when Roe was decided, hovering around 50 percent, according to Gallup. Support for same-sex marriage approaches 60 percent in some polls and keeps growing. (While a handful of senior elected Republicans like Senators Rob Portman of Ohio and Susan Collins of Maine have broken with their party, the official national platform endorses marriage between only a man and a woman, and Republican lawmakers at all levels of government have led the charge against full legalization.)
根据盖洛普(Gallup)提供的信息，民意调查显示人们对堕胎权的支持率与罗伊案判决时差不多，徘徊在50%左右。在一些民意调查当中，对同性婚姻的支持率达到了60％，而且还在不断增加。（尽管俄亥俄州的罗布·波特曼[Rob Portman]和缅因州的苏珊·柯林斯[Susan Collins]等少数资深当选共和党参议员与自己的党派意见相左，但是官方的全国竞选纲领只认可一男一女之间的婚姻，而且各级政府的共和党议员也在带头反对同性婚姻的完全合法化。）
There is, however, a significant portion of the party, notably its election-minded operative class and those hailing from liberal-leaning or moderate states, who were all but exultant over the news Friday because the court could at last settle the matter.
不过，相当一部分共和党人——尤其是想参选的行动派和那些来自倾向自由派的州或温和派州的人——听到周五的消息可谓欣喜若狂，因为法院很可能最后会解决这个问题。
“I think it’s probably going to be a relief, because if the Supreme Court makes a final determination — and goodness knows, nobody can guess what the Supremes are going to do — then it’s off the table,” said Shawn Steel, the Republican committeeman from California.
来自加州的共和党全国委员会委员肖恩·斯蒂尔(Shawn Steel)说，“我认为这可能会是一种解脱，因为如果最高法院作出最终决定——而且谁也不知道，没人能猜到法官会怎么做——这个问题就不再会造成困扰。”
But what remains problematic for these candidates — and what is reflected in statements they often make in the next breath about the importance of safeguarding “religious liberties” — is the fact that many Republican primary voters do not want to drop the fight.
不过，有个事实对于这些候选人仍然构成问题，即许多共和党初选中的选民都不愿意就此作罢。这反映在他们得知消息后立刻发表声明，阐述保护“宗教自由”的重要性。
“Marriage won’t be the issue in the Southern primaries,” said Oran Smith, head of the conservative Palmetto Family Council in South Carolina. “But it is a box, an important box, that simply must be checked.”
“在南部的初选中，同性婚姻不会是问题，”南卡罗来纳州保守派矮棕榈家庭理事会(Palmetto Family Council)的负责人奥兰·史密斯(Oran Smith)说，“但它的确是个问题，一个重要问题，必须被照顾到。”
With the center-right 2016 hopefuls expressing a certain sense of acceptance that same-sex marriage in all 50 states could be a foregone conclusion, there is an opening for socially conservative candidates like Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, and Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, to make gay rights a wedge.
对于同性婚姻问题在全美50个州已成定局的观点，中右派在2016年可能会表达一定程度的认同，但阿肯色州前州长麦克·赫卡比(Mike Huckabee)和宾夕法尼亚州前参议员里克·桑托勒姆(Rick Santorum)等社会保守派候选人仍然有机会把同性恋权利变成一个制造分裂的问题。
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, another possible Republican contender, has also signaled that he would push hard on the issue.
德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)是另一名颇有希望的共和党竞争者，他也曾暗示自己将大力推动这一问题。
The impact of a decision allowing gay couples to marry could also echo beyond that narrow question, prompting greater demands on the right for commitments from candidates about who they would or would not appoint to the bench.
允许同性恋伴侣结婚的决定，可能会产生超出这个有限问题的影响，会使右派更希望看到候选人就任命哪些人担任法官的问题作出承诺。
“A decision redefining marriage will highlight even more the importance of Supreme Court appointments,” said Russell Moore, a senior official with the Southern Baptist Convention. “Evangelicals and other social conservatives will want to hear from candidates what sort of judicial philosophy they will look for in making appointments. The usual clichéd slogans won’t be enough.”
“重新定义婚姻的决定将愈发突显出最高法院任命的重要性，”美南浸信会(Southern Baptist Convention)的高级官员罗素·摩尔(Russell Moore)说，“福音派和其他社会保守派会希望听到候选人表示，他们在进行任命时将遵循何种司法理念。平常那些陈词滥调的口号是不够的。”
But a court decision complicates the question for conservatives who espouse the importance of respecting the constitutional prerogatives of each government branch. Some conservatives foresee a split between those who would honor a decision they disagree with and those who would say it is illegitimate.
但是，法院的决定会让那些相信每个政府分支的宪法特权都应得到尊重的保守派面临更复杂的局面。一些保守派已经预见到，那些将接受自己并不同意的决定的人，和那些称之为非法行为的人之间，将出现分歧。