On Dec. 20, 1968, I got the flu. I remember it still: Christmas was a washout — I couldn’t leave the bed unassisted or keep anything down, not even a taste of the goose that someone else had to cook.
1968年12月20日，流感爆发，我中招了。一切历历在目：圣诞假期全毁了，我无法独自下床，也咽不下任何东西，甚至无法尝一尝某人硬着头皮做的那道鹅。
On New Year’s Day I could hardly breathe, and my husband carried me to a doctor, who diagnosed double pneumonia. I didn’t recover fully for three months. And I was pregnant — with twins, no less.
元旦那天，我快要喘不过气来，丈夫把我送到医生那儿，被诊断为双侧肺炎。我病怏怏地过了三个月。当时我已经怀孕了，还是双胞胎，只多不少。
The flu is no joke, especially not for pregnant women, the very young and the elderly, people who are chronically ill and those whose immune systems are suppressed. I managed to contract the flu during each of the three major outbreaks of Type A virus between 1957 and 1977. I never again want to be that sick — and I haven’t been. I get a flu shot every fall before the season begins.
流感可不是闹着玩的，对孕妇、婴幼儿、老人、慢性病患者，以及免疫功能受抑制的人尤其如此。1957年到1977年，一共爆发了三次甲型流感病毒，我无一幸免。我再也不想病成那个样子——我也确实再也没得过。每年秋天，我都在季节性流感来临之前注射疫苗。
But as this year’s severe epidemic demonstrated, too many people are neglecting this most basic precaution.
然而，今年的流感爆发表明，太多人忽略了这个基础的防护措施。
Although annual flu vaccination is now recommended for nearly everyone over the age of 6 months, for one reason or another only a minority of Americans — and fewer than half of those most at risk of serious complications and death from the flu — take this advice. Only two-thirds of health care workers, in fact, got the flu vaccine last year.
虽然现在，官方推荐年满半岁的几乎所有人，每年都要注射接种一次流感疫苗，但出于各种各样的原因，只有一小部分美国人接受了这个建议——比有可能因流感患各种严重并发症或致死的人群的一半还少。事实上，去年只有三分之二的医务人员注射了流感疫苗。
Recently I overheard a father say: “I’m not getting my kids vaccinated. I found out it’s mainly to protect the elderly, and there are no old people in my house.”
最近，我无意中听到一位父亲在说：“我不会让我孩子去打疫苗。我发现这主要是用来保护老年人的，但我家可没有老年人。”
I thought: Maybe not, sir, but do your children never go out? What about the people they may infect in school, in other people’s houses, or in a movie theater, store, public restroom, train, plane or bus?
我心想：先生，您家可能没有，但你孩子难道不出门吗？那些在学校、别人家，或者是电影院、商店、公共厕所、火车、飞机、公交车上被他们传染上的人该怎么办？
Almost anywhere they go, these children could come in contact with a cancer patient on chemotherapy, a pregnant woman, or someone with asthma, diabetes, heart disease or a kidney or liver disorder. All are especially at risk of serious complications or death from the flu.
孩子们去的每个地方，都可能遇到正在化疗的癌症患者、孕妇，或者哮喘、糖尿病、心脏病、肝肾功能不全的病人。他们一旦患流感，都有可能发生严重并发症，甚至因此死亡。
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the flu virus can travel six feet on droplets from coughs, sneezes or talk. Those infected can spread the virus before symptoms develop and for a week or more after getting sick. Less often, flu is spread by touching a contaminated surface, then touching one’s eyes, nose or mouth.
根据美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的信息，流感病毒可以从咳嗽、喷嚏或交谈的飞沫中传播达六英尺（合1.83米）远。感染者在没有出现症状的时候就开始传播病毒，并持续到症状消失一周以后甚至更久。有时，流感也会通过触摸到被污染的表面、进而又接触到眼睛、鼻子或嘴来传播。
Even if all those at high risk got their shots, the vaccine does not work for everyone; many can still get the flu, develop pneumonia or a worsening of a chronic condition, and die. But when more people are immunized, fewer get sick and the chances of keeping everyone else healthy improve, a phenomenon called “herd immunity.”
即使高危人群都注射了疫苗，它也不是对每个人都管用；很多人还是可能患上流感，发展为肺炎或导致原有的慢性病加重，甚至死亡。但是，越多人对流感免疫，就会有越少人患病，整体人群健康的机会就提高了，这种现象叫做“群体免疫”。
Dr. Thomas R. Talbot and his wife, Dr. H. Keipp Talbot, infectious disease specialists at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, recently examined — and refuted — many of the common arguments against influenza vaccination.
托马斯·R·塔尔伯特医生(Thomas R. Talbot)和他的妻子H·凯普·塔尔伯特医生(H. Keipp Talbot)都是美国范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)医学院的传染病专家，他们最近审视并驳斥了很多常见的反对流感疫苗的说法。
“The vaccine doesn’t work.” While it is not as effective as many other popular vaccines (on average, the flu vaccine is 56 percent effective in preventing flu), it is not ineffective.
“疫苗不管用。”它的有效性可能不如很多其他常用疫苗（流感疫苗预防流感的有效性平均为56%），但也并非无效。
The flu viruses in circulation change from year to year. The decision as to which variants to include in the vaccine each year must be made well in advance of the flu season. At any point thereafter, a new variant may emerge or an old one re-emerge, as happened this year with the Type B flu virus.
流行的流感病毒每年都会发生变化。而疫苗要涵盖什么样的变异，必须在季节性流感开始之前就决定。在此之后的某一时期，很有可能出现一个新的变异；或者有一种老病毒卷土重来，就像今年的乙型流感病毒。
The vaccine’s effectiveness varies by population, too. This year’s vaccine has been only 9 percent effective in protecting the elderly, for instance. Still, Dr. Thomas Talbot said, “even though elderly people who are immunized may get sick, they may not get as sick. They may still go to the doctor, but not to the hospital.”
疫苗的有效性也与人群有关。比如，今年的疫苗在保护老年人方面的有效性只有9%。但是，托马斯·塔尔伯特医生说：“即使打了疫苗的老年人得了流感，他们的病情也会较轻。他们也许需要去看医生，但不需要住院。”
“Certain populations don’t respond as well to the vaccine — the very young and very old, people who are immunosuppressed and women who are pregnant,” he added. “People who respond best to the vaccine should be immunized so they don’t spread it to others.”
“特定人群—比如特别年幼或特别年长的，免疫功能受抑制的或孕妇—对疫苗的反应并不一致，”他补充说：“对疫苗反应最好的人应该接种，这样他们就不会传染给别人了。”
Over all, this year’s vaccine proved 62 percent effective in preventing illness that warranted a doctor’s attention. Immunization is one good way to reduce the nation’s skyrocketing health care costs.
总体来说，今年的疫苗防病有效性证明为62%，这应当引起医生的关注。免疫注射对于降低美国一飞冲天的医疗保险费用是个好办法。
“The vaccine causes the flu.” No way! There are two kinds of licensed flu vaccines: an inactivated kind made with dead virus and one prepared with live “attenuated” virus. Neither is capable of reproducing in the human body. Those who say they got sick right after getting the shot most likely were already infected. Or they developed another viral infection unrelated to flu.
“疫苗令我得流感。”不可能！受到批准的流感疫苗有两种：灭活疫苗用死病毒制成，另一种则是活病毒“减毒”后制成。两种都无法在人体内完成复制。那些声称注射疫苗后反而得病的人，其实很有可能是此前已经感染了。也有可能是他们感染了与流感无关的其他病毒。
“I’m allergic to eggs.” The vaccine is prepared in eggs, but only those with a severe anaphylactic reaction to eggs must avoid it. Based on recent evidence, the vaccine is safe for those with lesser reactions (for example, only hives) as long as they are observed for half an hour after receiving it.
“我对鸡蛋过敏。”疫苗是在鸡蛋里面制备的，但只有对鸡蛋有严重过敏反应的人才需要避免。近期的证据表明，疫苗对轻度过敏（比如只出现荨麻疹）的人是安全的，只要在注射疫苗后观察半小时。
“I am pregnant or chronically ill, or live with someone whose immune system is compromised.” These are the very people for whom the flu vaccine is most important, because they face the greatest risk of complications. “The vaccine is safe in these persons and can prevent serious morbidity and mortality,” the Talbots wrote.
“我怀孕了，有慢性病，或与免疫功能不全的人共同居住。”这些人正是注射疫苗最有意义的人群，因为他们面临并发症的风险最大。“疫苗对这些人是安全的，可以预防严重的疾病和致死，”塔尔伯特医生写道。
“I never get the flu.” Although some who are infected may not develop classic flu symptoms (fever, cough, muscle or body aches, sore throat, headache, fatigue, runny or stuffy nose), they can still transmit the virus to others at home, school or work.
“我从来不得流感。”虽然有些人感染后并不出现典型的流感症状（发烧、咳嗽、肌肉或身体酸痛、咽痛、头痛、乏力、流涕或鼻塞），他们还是会在家中、学校或工作场所把病毒传染给其他人。
Even if you were not immunized and already had the flu this season, you’d be wise to get the vaccine; you can still be sickened by another of the viral variants circulating. Flu season, which peaks in February, can last until May. And because immunity to flu viruses tends to be short-lived, having had the flu or the vaccine in past years is not sufficiently protective.
即使你没有免疫，本季已经患过流感，注射疫苗依然是明智之举；因为你仍有可能被流行中的另一波变异病毒传染。季节性流感的高峰期是在二月，可以持续至五月。而流感病毒的免疫力持续较短，过去得过流感或注射过疫苗是不具有足够的防护性的。
Inconvenience — getting a doctor’s appointment and waiting in the office — might have once been a reasonable excuse to skip a flu shot. Nowadays, access to the vaccine is widespread: in pharmacies, stores, clinics, health departments and schools and at work, as well as at doctors’ offices. Often, as for people on Medicare, there is no charge for the vaccine.
不方便——需要跟医生预约，在医院排长队——也曾是逃避流感疫苗的合理借口。然而现在，注射疫苗的途径很多：药房、商店、诊所、健康管理中心、学校、单位，以及医院。通常，对于医保病人来说，疫苗不需要任何费用。