If Brian and Jill Faherty’s home looks a little like a catalog, there’s a good reason: Mr. Faherty is the owner of Schoolhouse Electric & Supply Co., the lighting and housewares company based in Portland, Ore., and his ranch-style house here is where most of the catalogs are shot.
如果说布莱恩和吉尔·法埃尔蒂(Brian and Jill Faherty)的家看起来有点像一份产品目录，这是有一个充分理由的：布莱恩是俄勒冈州波特兰的灯具与家庭用品公司Schoolhouse Electric & Supply Co.的所有人。他这套牧场风格的房子正是大多数产品目录的拍摄地。
But it’s also where he tests products in development, and where he and his wife are raising three children (J. P., 12; Greta, 11; and Audrey, 6). So while it may look as if everything is arranged just so, in fact the opposite is true. Things are constantly in flux, and function is more important than appearance.
但是，这里也是他测试正在开发的产品，并和妻子共同抚养三个孩子（12岁的J·P，11岁的格雷塔[Greta]和6岁的奥德丽[Audrey]）的地方。因此，虽然看起来好像每样东西都就是那么布置的，但实际上正好相反。屋里的东西一直处于不断变化的状态，而且，功能比外表更加重要。
The main piece of furniture in the family room, for instance, is an Ikea sofa. “We added brass-walnut accented legs for a sleeker look,” said Mr. Faherty, 50. “We like to invest in some things for enduring quality, but a sectional couch with three kids — how long is that going to last before it has to be reupholstered?”
比如说，家庭娱乐室里的主要家具是一张宜家(Ikea)沙发。“我们加装了风格显眼的古铜色胡桃木沙发腿，让沙发的外观更时髦，”50岁的布莱恩说，“我们喜欢在家具的耐用性上投资，但是，一座组合沙发加上三个孩子——它在被送去翻修之前撑得了多久呢？”
He added: “We don’t want to be worried about our couch. We live here.”
他又说：“我们不想为沙发的事担心。我们就是在这里过日子的。”
Even the house was chosen for its utility, and for the ways in which it differed from their previous home, a Colonial-style house with great bones but very small rooms. As Mrs. Faherty, 44, a product developer for Schoolhouse Electric, said: “We had a 4,700-square-foot house, but we’d end up in the 150-square-foot TV room to be together.”
就连这套房子也是因为实用性而被挑中的。他们之前的房子是一座殖民风格住宅，骨架很大但房间很小。而现在这套房子则截然不同。44岁的吉尔是Schoolhouse Electric的产品开发员，她说：“我们那套房子有4700平方英尺（约合437平方米），但是我们一家人相聚时，总得挤在那间150平方英尺（约合14平方米）的电视厅里。” 
Like many of the couple’s products, their new 3,200-square-foot house has a midcentury foundation, but the design has been reimagined for modern life. In this case, that involved reconfiguring the layout of the 1958 house, which they bought in 2012 for $785,00, but retaining its footprint and the three brick fireplaces.
同夫妇俩推出的许多产品一样，他们这套3200平方英尺（约合297平方米）的新居也是基于上世纪中叶的基础而造的，但其设计经过了重新构思，以适应现代生活。这就需要对这栋1958年建造的房子进行重新布局了。但同时，他们也保留了一些原本的印记和三座砖砌壁炉。这处房产是夫妇俩在2012年花78500美元（约合人民币483050元）买下来的。
Ben Waechter, a local architect, created a family-friendly floor plan for them, with wide hallways, large windows and a central living space that combined the dining room, kitchen, home office and family room.
一位当地建筑师本·韦希特尔(Ben Waechter)为他们绘制了一张适合家庭居住的楼层平面图，上面设计了宽走廊、大窗户和一个结合了餐厅、厨房、家庭办公室和家庭娱乐室的中央生活区。
“They wanted a single-story house made of forms and materials that would transcend any idea of time or style,” Mr. Waechter said. “Images of Swedish courtyard farmhouses came to mind.”
“他们想要一套单层房屋，其形式和用料要能超越所有时间或风格，”韦希特尔说，“我一下子就想到了瑞典庭院农舍。”
The renovation, which was completed in only five months, cost about $500,000.
装修只花了短短5个月，开销大约是50万美元（约合人民币308万元）。
Although (or perhaps because) the new house has less space, Mr. Faherty said, it functions better than the large house they gave up. “We live in every square inch of this house,” he said. “There’s no wasted space at all.”
布莱恩说，虽然（或，也许是因为）新房的空间更小，它比他们放弃的大房子更好地发挥了功能。“这栋房子里每平米的空间都得到了利用，”他说，“我们没有浪费一点空间。”
And considering that “it’s going by so fast with our kids,” he said, what’s even better is that “it’s like the family lodge here: we get to see so much more of them.”
而且，考虑到“跟孩子在一起的时间过得太快了，”他说，更美妙的是，“这里就像一处亲子小屋：我们能看到孩子们许许多多的成长变化。”
With all that open space and an outdoor dining area framed by the house, you would think this would be a good place for parties, too. But the Fahertys, it seems, rarely entertain.
由于这套房子有很多开放式空间，还规划了室外用餐区，你可能会觉得这里也很适合开派对。但是法埃尔蒂夫妇似乎很少这么做。
“As much as we think we’d love to,” Mrs. Faherty said, “we really don’t.”
“我们真的不怎么招待客人，”吉尔说，“也不怎么乐意。”
Mr. Faherty objected: “We do entertain three kids every night, and often their friends.”
布莱恩提出了异议：“我们每天晚上都要招待三个孩子，而且他们的朋友也经常来。”