When Ria Chhabra, a middle school student near Dallas, heard her parents arguing about the value of organic foods, she was inspired to create a science fair project to try to resolve the debate.
里亚·切布拉(Ria Chhabra)是达拉斯附近一所中学的学生。有一天，她从她父母对有机食品价值的争论中获得灵感，决定开发一项科学展的项目来解决这个问题。
Three years later, Ria’s exploration of fruit flies and organic foods has not only raised some provocative questions about the health benefits of organic eating, it has also earned the 16-year-old top honors in a national science competition, publication in a respected scientific journal and university laboratory privileges normally reserved for graduate students.The research, titled “Organically Grown Food Provides Health Benefits to Drosophila melanogaster,” tracked the effects of organic and conventional diets on the health of fruit flies. By nearly every measure, including fertility, stress resistance and longevity, flies that fed on organic bananas and potatoes fared better than those who dined on conventionally raised produce.
里亚对果蝇和有机食品展开了研究。三年后，她的这个项目对食用有机食品的健康效益提出了一些富有挑战意味的问题，并获得了全国科技竞赛 16 岁组的最高荣誉，发表在权威的科学期刊上，还为里亚赢得了通常只有研究生才能拥有的使用大学实验室的权限。该研究题为《有机食品对黑腹果蝇的健康效益》(Organically Grown Food Provides Health Benefits to Drosophila melanogaster)，主要探讨了有机饮食和常规饮食对果蝇健康的影响。研究衡量的指标包括生育力、抗应激性和寿命等。在几乎每项指标的评估中，以有机香蕉和土豆饲喂的果蝇表现均优于以常规农产品饲喂的果蝇。
While the results can’t be directly extrapolated to human health, the research nonetheless paves the way for additional studies on the relative health benefits of organic versus conventionally grown foods. Fruit fly models are often used in research because their short life span allows scientists to evaluate a number of basic biological effects over a relatively brief period of time, and the results provide clues for better understanding disease and biological processes in humans.
虽然并不能直接将这些研究结果拓展到人类健康的范畴，但该研究为进一步探索有机食品相对于常规食品的健康效益铺平了道路。果蝇模型在科学研究中十分常见，这是因为它们寿命短，可使科学家们在相对较短的时间里评估多种基本的生物学效应，这些研究结果还可为更好地认识人类疾病和生物学过程提供线索。
For her original middle-school science project, Ria evaluated the vitamin C content of organic produce compared with conventionally farmed foods. When she found higher concentrations of the vitamin in organic foods, she decided she wanted to take the experiment further and measure the effects of organic eating on overall health.
在这项中学科技项目中，里亚起初评估并比较了有机农产品与常规种植的食品中的维生素 C 含量。当她发现有机食品中的维生素浓度较高时，她决定将实验更进一步，衡量食用有机食品对整体健康的影响。
She searched the Internet and decided a fruit fly model would be the best way to conduct her experiment. She e-mailed several professors who maintained fly laboratories asking for assistance. To her surprise, Johannes Bauer, an assistant professor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, responded to her inquiry.
经过一番互联网搜索，里亚认为果蝇模型最适合她的实验。于是她向若干实验室里饲养有果蝇的教授发送了电子邮件并寻求帮助。令她意外的是，达拉斯南卫理公会大学(Southern Methodist University)的助理教授约翰尼斯·鲍尔(Johannes Bauer)回应了她的请求。
“We are very interested in fly health, and her project was a perfect match for what we were doing,” Dr. Bauer said. Although he would not normally agree to work with a middle-school student, he said, Ria performed on the level of a college senior or graduate student. “The seriousness with which she approached this was just stunning,” he said.
“我们一直对果蝇的健康很感兴趣，而她的项目正完美地配合了我们当前的工作，”鲍尔博士如是说。虽然他通常不会同意与一个中学生合作，但他指出，里亚所表现出的科研能力不亚于大学四年级学生或研究生。“她钻研问题时的认真态度真令人惊叹，”他说。
Ria worked on the project over the summer, eventually submitting the research to her local science fair competition. The project was named among just 30 finalists in the prestigious 2011 Broadcom Masters national science competition. Dr. Bauer, following his lab’s policy of publishing all research regardless of outcome, urged Ria, then 14, to pursue publication in a scientific journal. Dr. Bauer and an S.M.U. research associate, Santharam Kolli, are listed as co-authors on the research.
里亚花了一整个夏天来完成这个项目，并将它提交给了当地的科学展竞赛。在久负盛名的博通大师(Broadcom Masters)全国科技竞赛中，该研究最终成为 2011 年决赛仅有的 30 个入围项目之一。鲍尔博士的实验室有项原则，那就是无论研究结果如何均应发表，于是他鼓励当时 14 岁的里亚争取把这一研究发表在科学期刊上。鲍尔博士和达拉斯南卫理公会大学的研究员桑瑟兰姆·科利(Santharam Kolli)均名列共同作者。
Now a sophomore at Clark High School in Plano, Tex., Ria said she was excited to see her work accepted by a scientific journal. “I had no idea what publishing my research meant,” said Ria, who last week was juggling high school exams, a swim meet and a sweet-16 party. “My mom told me, ‘This is a pretty big deal.’”
里亚现在已经是得克萨斯州普莱诺市克拉克高中二年级的学生。自己的工作能获得科学期刊的接受，令她十分激动。“我并不清楚发表研究意味着什么，”里亚说，上周她还忙于同时兼顾高中考试、游泳比赛和 16 岁生日派对，“可我妈妈告诉我，‘这是件了不起的大事。’ ”
Ria has continued to work in Dr. Bauer’s lab. For her 10th-grade science fair project she created a model for studying Type 2 diabetes in fruit flies. The work will be presented in a few weeks. She plans to build on that research by studying the effects of alternative remedies, like cinnamon and curcumin, found in turmeric, on diabetes in fruit flies.
里亚仍继续在鲍尔博士的实验室工作。她准备用来参加 10 年级科展的项目是在果蝇中建立研究II型糖尿病的模型，并将在未来的几周内向人们展示。她计划在果蝇中研究替代性疗法如桂皮和姜黄中的姜黄素对糖尿病的影响，进一步为这项研究添砖加瓦。
Ria said she was only just beginning to think about applying to colleges and is intrigued by Brown University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, although she has not ruled any school in or out. Dr. Bauer said that he was happy to have her working in his lab and that her biggest problem was that “she has too many ideas for her own good.”
里亚说，她才刚刚开始考虑申请大学的事情。她觉得布朗大学(Brown University)和麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)都很有吸引力，但还并没有将任何学校排除或纳入考虑。鲍尔博士表示他很高兴里亚能在他的实验室工作，而她最大的问题在于：“她的主意实在太多了点。”
Meanwhile, Dr. Bauer said the study of organic foods and fruit fly health has raised some important questions that he hopes can be answered in future research. The difference in outcomes among the flies fed different diets could be due to the effects of pesticide and fungicide residue from conventionally raised foods.
同时，鲍尔博士指出，这一关于有机食品和果蝇健康的研究提出了一些重要的问题，他希望能在未来的研究中得到解答。以不同饮食饲喂的果蝇会出现不同的结果，可能是以常规方式种植的食物上残留的杀虫剂和杀真菌剂造成的影响。
Or it could be that the organic-fed flies thrived because of a higher level of nutrients in the organic produce. One intriguing idea raises the question of whether organically raised plants produce more natural compounds to ward off pests and fungi, and whether those compounds offer additional health benefits to flies, animals and humans who consume organic foods. “There are no hard data on that, but it’s something we’d like to follow up on,” he said.
也可能是因为有机农产品中含有较高水平的营养素，这使得以它们为食的果蝇变得生机勃勃。一个有趣的想法激起了一连串问题：以有机方式培养的植物能否产生更多的天然化合物来抵御害虫和真菌？这些化合物能否向食用有机食品的果蝇、动物和人类提供额外的健康效益？“关于这些问题，目前还没有确凿的数据，但这正是我们想深入研究的东西，”鲍尔博士补充道。