It is through Allen Bush, the seedsman and raconteur, that I lay claim to the 400-year-old legacy of the Dutch engraver and floriculturist Emanuel Sweert. On a cloudless Saturday morning not long ago, Mr. Bush rummaged in his backyard and cut me a clump of a purplish iris. It was an ordinary looking plant, not yet in bloom — hardly noticeable in his oversize city lot.
艾伦·布什(Allen Bush)是种子商，善于讲故事。通过他，我拿到了荷兰版画家和花卉栽培家艾曼纽尔·斯维尔特(Emanuel Sweert)留下的一份存世400年的遗物。不久前，在一个晴朗无云的星期六早上，布什在他后院里搜寻一番，给我剪取了一丛带有紫色的鸢尾。这丛花看起来很普通，还没有开放——在他那片超大的城市空地上很不显眼。
“It’s very small compared to the German bearded irises,” said Mr. Bush, 63. “You’ll look at it and say, really? But it’s got a charm because it’s so old. And because of Ellen.”
“它跟德国有髯鸢尾(German bearded irises)比起来特别小，”63岁的布什说，“你看到它的时候会说，这真的是鸢尾吗？但是，由于它的历史悠久，就有一种特殊的魅力。这其中也有埃伦(Ellen)的功劳。”
That would be Ellen Hornig, the proprietor of Seneca Hill Perennials, in Oswego, N.Y. The nursery is gone now: she closed it to care for her ailing husband. But 20 years ago, Mr. Bush ordered the cultivar called Iris Swertii from Ms. Hornig. “She had a story about where she got all this stuff,” Mr. Bush said.
他所说的人是埃伦·霍尼格(Ellen Hornig)，以前在纽约州奥斯威戈(Oswego)经营着Seneca Hill Perennials苗圃。现在这家苗圃已经不复存在：霍尼格需要照顾生病的丈夫，所以关了它。不过20年前，布什从霍尼格那里购买到这个名为Iris Swertii的鸢尾品种。“关于所有这些东西都是怎么来的，她有一段故事可讲。”布什说。
This description was high praise. Though Mr. Bush is a gardener of unusual knowledge and influence, he is, first, a cultivator of stories and relationships.
这句话可以说是对霍尼格的高度称赞。尽管布什是一个知识渊博、影响力巨大的园艺师，但他首先是一个耕耘故事和人情关系的人。
Over his long career in horticulture, he has gone herb shopping in the Smoky Mountains with the legendary British gardener and writer Christopher Lloyd. He has been received at the Bavarian garden of Countess Helen von Stein-Zeppelin. (“Her uncle was the Zeppelin of dirigible fame,” Mr. Bush said.) And Mr. Bush has wandered 10 countries and three continents on collecting trips with the grass king Kurt Bluemel.
在他漫长的园艺生涯中，他曾经和英国传奇园艺师、作家克里斯托弗·劳埃德(Christopher Lloyd)一起去烟山(Smoky Mountains)采购香草；曾经在海伦·冯·斯泰因-齐柏林(Helen von Stein-Zeppelin)伯爵夫人的巴伐利亚花园里接受款待（“她的叔叔就是著名的齐柏林飞船的设计者。”布什说）；还曾随“禾草之王”库尔特·布鲁梅尔(Kurt Bluemel)游历过十国、三大洲，收集各种植物。
Never heard of Kurt Bluemel, who died last month at 81? Here’s a yarn: Mr. Bluemel sourced four million savanna plants for the safari ride at Disney’s Animal Kingdom in Florida. As Mr. Bush tells it, the ride designers failed to anticipate that wildebeest would graze.
库尔特·布鲁梅尔已于上个月去世，享年81岁，如果你从没听说过他，我来给你讲个故事：布鲁梅尔曾为佛罗里达州迪士尼动物王国（Disney’s Animal Kingdom，位于美国佛罗里达州奥兰多的一个主题公园——译注）的远征之旅，物色了400万株热带草原植物。正如布什所说，远征之旅的设计者没有料到，角马会吃这些草。
You could see Mr. Bluemel’s little bluestem mix on a two-acre hillside at Mr. Bush’s country house near Salvisa, Ky., an hour east of Louisville. “He sent us a box of at least 100 pounds, which we scattered — kind of the meadow-in-a-can approach,” Mr. Bush said.
布什的乡间别墅位于肯塔基州萨尔维萨(Salvisa)附近，在路易斯维尔(Louisville)以东一小时的距离。在这里，你可以看到布鲁梅尔赠送的各种须芒草生长在一片2英亩（约合8094平方米）的山坡上。“他给我们送了整整一箱，有100磅（约合45公斤）重，我们把这些须芒草分散种植到了山坡上——这就好比你去买罐装草原植物套餐一样。”布什说。
It seems that Mr. Bush knows everyone in the garden world, and everyone knows him. As the former director of North American operations for Jelitto, a giant in the perennial seed market, Mr. Bush spent a dozen years calling on nurseries and garden centers.
布什似乎认识园艺界的所有人，而所有人似乎也都认识他。布什曾经在杰利托(Jelitto)公司负责北美地区的业务，他花了好几年时间走访各地的苗圃和花园中心。杰利托公司是多年生植物种子市场的巨头。
“Sometimes I felt like Willy Loman,” he said. “I’d do that nice-to-see-you kind of thing.”
“有时候我感觉自己就像威利·罗曼（Willy Loman，《推销员之死》的主人公——译注），”他说，“到处跟人打交道。”
Mr. Bush estimates that he has visited more than 400 public and private gardens and another 400 nurseries and greenhouses. And while he insists that number is nothing extraordinary, he is hard pressed to name anyone who has seen more.
布什估计，自己已经造访过400多家公共和私人花园，外加400座苗圃和温室。尽管他坚称这个数字没什么大不了，但他也说不出有谁去过的植物园比他更多。
But back, for a moment, to Iris Swertii. Mr. Bush not only shared the rhizome with me, but he dug up an old email address for Ellen Hornig.
不过，让我们暂且回到Iris Swertii的话题。布什不仅赠给我鸢尾的根茎，还从以前的通讯录里翻出了埃伦·霍尼格的email地址。
She replied to my inquiry immediately. Ms. Hornig had no information on the flower. But she recalled that Iris Swertii had come to her from Superstition Iris Gardens, in the California foothills of the Sierra Nevada.
霍尼格很快就回复了我的邮件。她没有关于那丛鸢尾的信息。但她回忆说，Iris Swertii是她从Superstition鸢尾花园(Superstition Iris Gardens)要来的。那座鸢尾花园，位于内华达山脉(Sierra Nevada)加利福尼亚山麓。
Richard Tasco, the longtime owner of Superstition, was equally gracious, though less forthcoming. He wouldn’t reveal where he had first acquired the cultivar decades ago. Historic irises are a “niche business,” he said, and easily misidentified. He had dropped this particular variety in 2011.
理查德·塔斯科(Richard Tasco)长久以来一直是Superstition花园的所有者，他也很和善，只是没那么愿意帮忙。他不肯透露自己几十年前是从哪里引进的这种鸢尾。他说，历史久远的鸢尾品种是一个“小众市场”，很容易鉴别错误。他在2011年就已放弃这个品种了。
Was Mr. Tasco’s flower the “Sweert’s Iris” that appeared in the 1823 catalog of the Linnaean Botanic Garden, in Flushing, N.Y.? (Here, at last, was a garden Mr. Bush had not seen.)
塔斯科的鸢尾，会不会就是纽约法拉盛(Flushing)的林奈植物园(Linnaean Botanic Garden)于1823年编订的植物名录里出现的“斯维尔特鸢尾(Sweert’s Iris)”？（说到林奈植物园，我总算找到一个布什没有走访过的花园了。）
If you followed the name still further back in time, you’d land on a floral print published by Emanuel Sweert. A dealer in botanical wonders, Sweert had included a handful of irises in his catalog, commissioned by the Holy Roman Emperor Rudolf II.
如果你循着这条线索往下查，就会找到艾曼纽尔·斯维尔特(Emanuel Sweert)出版的一部花卉画册。作为深谙园艺界奇观的交易商，斯维尔特在神圣罗马帝国皇帝鲁道夫二世(Rudolf II)委托他编订的植物名录里，收录了一小部分鸢尾品种。
Looking at Mr. Bush’s iris, it was possible to imagine that a medieval relic had passed through gardens great and small. And now he had wrapped it up in a plastic grocery bag for me to take home.
看着布什的鸢尾你或许可以想象，一项中世纪的遗产，通过大大小小的花园被传承了下来。而如今，布什用塑料食品袋把它包了起来，让我拿回家。
You can tell someone is a serious plant collector when the FedEx guy already knows what’s in the box.
如果连联邦快递的派件员都已经知道，别人给你的包裹里肯定装的是植物，那就可以看出，你一定是个严肃的植物收藏家了。
“I’ve got some more plants for you, buddy,” the deliveryman said.
“老兄，你又有植物寄过来了。”派件员说。
Within a minute or two, Mr. Bush had sliced open the package, from Plant Delights. (Tony Avent, the company’s owner, has been a friend “for a long, long time.”) He declared himself pleased with the condition of the baptisia, and even more impressed with the thoroughness of the packing job.
包裹是Plant Delights公司寄来的（Plant Delights的所有者托尼·阿文特[Tony Avent]跟布什已经是“很久很久”的老朋友了）。布什用一两分钟的时间拆开了包裹。他说，他对赝靛(baptisia)的完好状态非常满意，更让他满意的是包装的结实度。
For some 15 years, Mr. Bush operated his own quirky perennial nursery and catalog, called Holbrook Farm, near Asheville, N.C. The very idea of retailing perennials was quirky back in 1980, when Mr. Bush first developed the business plan.
大约15年来，布什一直经营着他那古怪的多年生植物苗圃并为之编纂植物名录。他的苗圃名为霍尔布鲁克农场(Holbrook Farm)，位于北卡罗来纳州阿什维尔(Asheville)附近。在1980年，布什第一次制定他的商业计划时，零售多年生植物还是一个古怪的想法。
“Perennial plants are outdoor plants which may die back at the end of the growing season and then reappear the following year,” he wrote in his prospectus. He listed his (rather thin) qualifications as a plantsman: a year of intensive study at Kew Gardens, in London. Of his potential customers, Mr. Bush wrote, “my market will be drawn from magazine advertising in the horticultural magazines.”
“多年生植物是户外植物，可能过了生长季节就会死亡，到了下一年又重新生长，”布什在计划书里写道。当时，他列出了自己作为园艺师的资历（资历很浅）：他曾在伦敦邱园(Kew Gardens)进行了为期一年的深入研究。在谈到潜在客户时，布什写道，“我可以通过在园艺杂志投放广告来打开市场。”
Mr. Bush keeps the original proposal in a scrapbook, and looking at it today seems to fill him with amusement. “This business plan looks bulletproof,” he said. “How could it go wrong?”
布什把最初的计划收藏在了一本剪贴簿里，现在拿出来看时，他似乎觉得很有意思。“这份商业计划看起来简直滴水不漏，”他说，“怎么可能会出错呢？”
You could start with the readers of horticulture magazines. “They were serious gardeners,” Mr. Bush said. “There just weren’t that many of them.”
你可以先从园艺杂志的读者找到突破口。“他们是真正的园艺爱好者，”布什说，“只不过，这个群体并不是那么庞大。”
He was right about perennials, though. Panayoti Kelaidis, 64, senior curator at the Denver Botanic Gardens, recalled a time when perennials were “pass-along plants,” almost absent from the trade. Perplexingly, American natives were often available only in the Old World. Mr. Bush’s nursery, he said: “was the first one. With his experience in Europe, he brought the very best of the European cultivars. As well as, he had the native sensibility from gardening in the Appalachian region.”
不过，他对多年生植物的看法是正确的。据丹佛植物园(Denver Botanic Gardens)的高级园长、64岁的帕纳约蒂·克莱蒂斯(Panayoti Kelaidis)回忆，以前，多年生植物都是“一代代传下来的”，几乎不在市面上流通。令人困惑的是，美国本土的品种往往只能在旧大陆找到。而布什的苗圃，据他说，“开创了先河。他凭借自己在欧洲学到的经验，把欧洲最好的品种带了过来。而且，他在阿巴拉契亚地区(Appalachian)经营过园艺，对本土植物有着敏锐的洞察力。”
Mr. Bush pitched these unsung plants with wry and entertaining catalog copy. Of a shrubby herbaceous plant, Mr. Bush might write: “The truth is, for all its beauty, Caryopteris nepalensis contributes its own, shall we say, ‘distinctive,’ odor when handled. The names of major urban areas — Miami, Cleveland, Pittsburgh — have been mentioned in reference to this smell (folks have never mentioned their own towns).”
在植物名录中，布什用讽刺和调侃的笔触，对这些无人赏识的植物进行了描述。在谈到一种灌木状的草本植物时，他可能会这么写：“事实是，莸属植物(Caryopteris nepalensis)的所有魅力在于，当它被拿起来的时候，它会散发出一种味道，这种味道应该说是非常‘独特’的。有人用各个主要城区——比如迈阿密、克利夫兰、匹兹堡——来形容这种味道（但他们从不用自己的老家形容它）。”
Yet the catalog was no substitute for visiting the nursery in person, recalled Heather Spencer, 63, a regular customer who became a friend. To start, there was Mr. Bush: charming, literate, congenitally self-deprecating. “I’m sure many women went and bought plants,” said Dr. Spencer, a retired emergency room physician.
不过，根据从苗圃常客变成了布什朋友的63岁的希瑟·斯宾塞(Heather Spencer)回忆，光看植物名录，终究无法取代亲临现场的感受。一开始，苗圃里就有布什撑场：他富有魅力，博学多才，天生谦逊。“我敢肯定那时候有很多女顾客来买植物。”已经退休的急诊室医生斯宾塞说。
Holbrook Farm ultimately taught Mr. Bush the difference between having a life in horticulture and making a living. In 1995, he liquidated the nursery and moved back home to Louisville. Soon after, he bought a house with his soon-to-be second wife, Rose Cooper.
经营霍尔布鲁克农场的经历，最终让布什懂得了边打理园艺边生活与靠园艺谋生之间的区别。1995年，他关停了自己的苗圃，搬回路易斯维尔。此后不久，他和露丝·库珀(Rose Cooper)买了一套房子，库珀很快就成了他的第二任妻子。
“When we go to conventions, my wife is happy to introduce herself as Rose Bush,” Mr. Bush said — one of those gifts that help a marriage endure.
“我们去参加会议的时候，我妻子很乐意在自我介绍的时候说，她是露丝·布什。”布什说——这是有助于维系婚姻的法宝之一。
Ms. Cooper, a 60-year-old retired public defender, gardens in the front of their 1936 Federal-style brick house. After his years at the nursery, gardening in public, Mr. Bush now favors the solitude of the backyard.
库珀今年60岁，是一名退休的公设辩护律师。她打理的花园位于自家前院。她家的房子是建成于1936年的联邦风格砖石建筑。多年来，布什一直在公共用地上打理苗圃和花园，而现在，他更喜欢享受自家后院的清静。
He has a tradesman’s knowledge of the right way to cultivate plants. And that’s mostly what he does not do in his home garden. The propagation greenhouse is the junked-up garage. The irrigation system is a hose and a Haws watering can.
布什知道怎样采用商业化的方式培育植物，但他在自家的花园里一般不会这样做。他家的培育温室是一间堆满废弃物品的车库。灌溉系统就是一根软管，外加一个Haws牌的喷壶。
One of the few things Mr. Bush salvaged from the old operation is the sign for Holbrook Farm: a groovy blue hand holding a leaf. It now hangs in a place of honor, at the gate of the compost heap.
布什从以前的苗圃里“抢救”出来的、为数不多的几样东西之一，就是霍尔布鲁克农场的标牌：上面画着一只图案老套的、蓝色的手，手里拿着一片树叶。现在，这块标牌被挂在了一个光荣的地方，就在堆肥室的门上。
The terraced garden at the Louisville house is totally Simple. The design itself is rather complicated: it resembles a ziggurat, with grass in the center and scree planting beds on the sides. The site includes a dry gulch for storm-water management, and a pond and fountain surrounded by a stone patio.
布什在路易斯维尔的别墅中建的露台花园，完全是辛普尔(Simple)的手笔。而其设计本身相当复杂：它就像一座（巴比伦）金字形神塔，禾草种在中间，碎石种植床在四周。花园里有条干涸的水沟，用于在天降暴雨时管理雨水，还有一座用石台围起来的池塘及喷泉。
Simple, to be clear, is an outsider artist and a longtime friend. “His name is ‘Simple,’ ” Mr. Bush said. “Not Bill or Bob.”
需要澄清的是，辛普尔是一名域外艺术家（outsider artist，“域外艺术”指非艺术领域的人所创造出的艺术作品，特别是指未受训练的人或精神病患者所画的粗糙、不熟练甚至粗鄙的作品——译注），也是布什的老朋友。“他的名字就叫‘辛普尔’（也是‘简单’的意思——译注），”布什说，“不叫比尔或鲍勃之类的。”
Mr. Bush had imagined a naturalistic plan, inspired by the Potsdam-Bornim garden of the plantsman Karl Foerster. But you don’t hire Simple to do what you want to do; you hire Simple to do what he wants to do. This explains how Mr. Bush ended up with a colorful pergola that looks as if it escaped from a wine bar in Key West. (“He prevailed,” Mr. Bush said. “And I was glad he did.”)
布什一开始的设想是建一座自然主义的花园，这是受到了园艺大师卡尔·福斯特(Karl Foerster)的波茨坦-波尔宁花园(Potsdam-Bornim)的启发。但是，你既然聘请了辛普尔，就不能指望他顺着你的意思，你得顺着他的意思。于是乎，布什的花园里最终出现了一座五彩斑斓的葡萄藤架，感觉就像是从基韦斯特(Key West)的一家葡萄酒吧里逃出来的。（“他赢了，”布什说，“我很高兴是他赢了。”）
Along the stone stairs lie a couple of small concrete planters. Mr. Bush stopped here to point at a daisylike flower, Erigeron compositus. “This little thing is a fleabane,” he said. “I got this from Harlan Hamernik, a legendary nurseryman in Nebraska. His motto was, ‘If they’ll grow in Nebraska, they’ll grow anywhere.’ ”
石阶边摆着几个混凝土小花盆。布什在这里停住，指了指一朵像雏菊的花，它的学名叫Erigeron compositus。“这个小玩意是一朵飞蓬，” 他说，“它是我从哈兰·哈梅尔尼克(Harlan Hamernik)那里要来的。哈梅尔尼克是内布拉斯加(Nebraska)的一位传奇的苗圃经营者。他的信条是‘只要是能在内布拉斯加生长的植物，就能在所有地方生长。’”
Mr. Bush continued: “He died two years ago, lighting his furnace, and the house blew up. It was really sad.” And yet the fleabane remains behind. “Now I pass by and see it,” Mr. Bush said, “and I think of Harlan.”
布什接着说：“他两年前去世了。生炉子的时候房子炸了。太让人难过了。”但是他的飞蓬留存了下来。“现在我每次经过这里、看到它，就会想起哈兰。”布什说。
Mr. Bush does not have a naturally morbid disposition. Yet a gregarious plant collector who stays at it long enough ends up accumulating a kind of memorial garden.
布什并没有天生的病态性情。但是，作为一名喜欢社交的植物收藏家，久而久之他也开始热衷构建充满回忆的花园。
The potted hollies came from Josh Brands, a Trappist monk in the Abbey of Gethsemani, once home to the author Thomas Merton. “It was always said, if you’re going out to visit Merton, bring a case of beer and a bottle of whiskey,” Mr. Bush said. The same rule applied to Brother Josh, who “had the reputation as the party monk.”
盆栽冬青以前的主人乔希·布兰兹(Josh Brands)，是客西马尼修院(Abbey of Gethsemani)的一名苦修士。作家托马斯·默顿(Thomas Merton)曾经居住在客西马尼修院。“人们常说，要去拜访默顿，就得要带一箱啤酒和一瓶威士忌，”布什说。这一点也适用于乔希修士，“人们都叫他酒肉修士。”
Mr. Bush recounts the story at Garden Rant, the popular group blog, where he writes every month. He had helped Brother Josh install a garden at his private hermitage. The weather was bleak, and before long, Brother Josh suggested a detour to a Mexican restaurant: “Let’s go to town on the abbey’s credit card!”
布什在一个很受欢迎的博客群Garden Rant上记录了这个故事，他每个月都会在上面更新。布什回忆说，他曾帮助乔希修士在其私人住处建立花园。当天的天气很阴冷，过了不久，乔希修士建议我们绕道去一家墨西哥餐馆：“我们进城吧，我有修道院的信用卡！”
Mr. Bush’s friend died last year, having left his vocation. He was survived by the hollies (Ilex colchica and Ilex ciliospinosa), which Mr. Bush was attempting to propagate by cutting and seed. “He was a good monk,” Mr. Bush said.
布什的这位朋友去年去世了，生前已辞去神职。他的冬青（Ilex colchica和纤齿枸骨[Ilex ciliospinosa]两个品种）留了下来。布什试图将它们扦插移植。“他是个好修士。”布什说。
Mr. Bush’s own legacy is Molly Bush. This is a heuchera that he selected for its reddish bronze coloring. In the final Holbrook Farm catalog, in 1995, he explained that the cultivar had hit the market almost by accident.
而布什自己留给世人的礼物是莫莉·布什(Molly Bush)。这是一种矾根属植物(heuchera)，他之所以选中这一品种，是因为它带有微红的青铜色。在1995年的最后一期霍尔布鲁克农场植物名录中，他解释道，这个品种的上市几乎纯属偶然。
“The choice for a name wasn’t hard,” he wrote. “I named it after my daughter, Molly Bush. At 13, she’s unaffected by this distinction and remains less interested in plants than in horseback riding and her electric guitar.”
“选名字并不难，”他写道，“我用了女儿的名字为它命名，莫莉·布什。当年13岁的她对于这一殊荣显得无动于衷。比起植物，她还是更热衷于骑马和玩电吉他。”
Today, Molly Bush is 32, and she recently returned to Louisville with a 7-year-old daughter of her own. But the plant seemed to have departed for good. One summer it disappeared in the perennial jungle, and it didn’t re-emerge in the spring.
如今，莫莉·布什32岁了，最近带着自己7岁的女儿回到了路易斯维尔。但那株植物似乎永远逝去了。有一年夏天，它在多年生植物的丛林里消失了踪迹，来年春天也没再生长出来。
Then, at a trade show, Mr. Bush met Susan Cohan, a New Jersey landscape designer. She had ordered the variety decades ago from Mr. Bush’s nursery and it had proved to be a good grower. “It’s always nice to hear how my baby is doing,” he said.
后来，在一次交易会上，布什遇到了新泽西的园林设计师苏珊·柯汉(Susan Cohan)。几十年前，柯汉曾在布什的苗圃订购过这个品种，这种植物在她那里长势很好。“能了解我家‘孩子’的生长情况总是好的。”布什说。
Ms. Cohan kindly took a cutting of the original, and now Molly Bush was back home.
柯汉贴心地从原来的植株上剪取了一段下来。于是现在，莫莉·布什回家了。
A few years ago, an ice storm arrested Louisville. “We had no power for days,” Mr. Bush said. The house turned into a meat locker. “I was going to stay here in the ice cave to protect the fort. And Rose said, ‘I’m leaving.’ ”
几年前，一场冰暴袭击了路易斯维尔。“我们断了几天的电，”布什说。屋里已经变成了冰窖。“我本来打算守着这个冰窟的，但露丝说，‘我要离开’。”
When they returned, the house appeared the same. And yet something had happened. “It was like I had no attachment to the place,” Mr. Bush said.
当他们回来时，房子似乎还是老样子。然而，事情发生了某种变化。“感觉好像我对这个地方没有留恋了。”布什说。
In a similar fashion, he could feel himself disconnecting from the Louisville garden. Reflecting on the experience in a blog post last fall, he cited the philosopher Walter Benjamin from an essay called “Unpacking My Library”: “Every passion borders on the chaotic, but the collector’s passion borders on the chaos of memories.”
无独有偶，他感到自己对路易斯维尔花园的依恋也减弱了。去年秋天，他在一篇博文中回忆此事时引用了哲学家瓦尔特·本雅明(Walter Benjamin)的一篇散文《打开我的图书馆》(Unpacking My Library)：“任何一种激情都濒临混沌，但收藏家的激情邻于记忆的混沌。”（译文摘自三联出版社的《启迪（本雅明文选）》——译注）
By comparison, the country house, on the Salt River, stands unencumbered by history. This seems unusual, because the original part of the structure likely dates to the mid-19th century.
相比之下，盐河(Salt River)边的那栋乡村别墅并未受制于历史负担。这似乎很不同寻常，因为这栋建筑最初的部分很可能是在19世纪中叶建成的。
“This house was old,” Mr. Bush said.
“这套房子很老了。”布什说。
Ms. Cooper said, “This place was falling down.”
库珀说：“都快要塌了。”
With a farmstead so superannuated, you’re forced — and free — to create something new. They converted the barn into an office and table tennis arena, adding a glass garage door for light. When you sit on the rough furniture inside, the outside glows like a Kodak Colorama from the old Grand Central Terminal.
当一座农场建筑变得如此老掉牙时，你就不得不对它做出新的改造——而且可以随意改造。他们把谷仓改建成了一间办公室兼乒乓球场，还加装了一扇玻璃车库门用于采光。当你坐在室内的粗糙家具上时，室外的景观看起来就像就像当年挂在中央车站(Grand Central Terminal)里的柯达彩色全景片。