Every morning since late August, Li Wei has started her day by putting on rubber boots and wading through a barrel of disinfectant before entering a shed filled with dozens of dogs that would have wound up on restaurant tables were it not for rescuers like herself. She and other volunteers in Lucun, a village on the southwestern outskirts of Beijing, then get to the day’s chores: feeding the dogs, filling their water bowls, washing the floor and helping veterinarians administer rabies shots. When the sickest animals die, the volunteers carry the bodies out for burial. They can’t afford cremation, Ms. Li said.
8月底以来的每一天，李伟都是这样度过的：早上第一件事是穿上高筒雨靴在消毒液桶里踩一踩，然后进入一间关着二三十只狗的笼舍。这些狗本来会被屠宰，送上餐桌，但是被像她这样的小动物救助者救了下来。在北京西南郊的吕村，李伟和另外几位志愿者一天的工作包括喂狗、给狗补水、冲洗地板和帮助兽医给狗打针。一些伤病太重没能救活的狗，他们会拿出去深埋。李伟说，他们没钱火化。
They repeat the same tasks in two other sheds, also full of dogs the authorities seized from traffickers, on a farm the volunteers have turned into a makeshift shelter. Late at night, Ms. Li updates reports on their work on social media platforms such as Sina Weibo, hoping to secure attention and, thereby, funding and adoptions.
这个被临时改作收容站的农家院里，还有两间这样的狗舍，也寄养着政府从狗贩子的车上罚没的狗只。每天晚上忙完之后，李伟还要在新浪微博之类的社交网站上更新他们的工作，以便赢得公众的持续关注。有了关注，也好筹得捐款。
“Donations are coming in slowly,” said Ms. Li, managing director of Capital Animal Welfare Association, a volunteer organization. “Too many dogs since August, and adoptions are hard to arrange.”
“现在捐款少，”志愿者组织首都爱护动物协会办公室主任李伟说。“8月以来救的狗太多了，一时分流不出去。”
Weeks after a string of dramatic rescues of trafficked dogs across northern China, the result of citizen vigilantes responding to tip-offs and intercepting trucks, rescuers such as Ms. Li are struggling with the consequences of their victories against the dog meat industry.
华北地区一连多起颇具戏剧性的公路救狗事件，已经过去几周了。这几次都是由警觉的普通市民及时发现、拦截并报警，最终由官方罚没的。但如今，李伟等动物救助者却遭遇了与狗肉产业斗争取得胜利之后，出现的新问题。
Each year, millions of dogs are slaughtered for their meat in China, according to Animals Asia Foundation, a Hong Kong-based nonprofit organization. The cooler months are the prime season for eating dog meat in some parts of China, where people who eat dogs believe the meat improves circulation and has warming properties.
据香港的亚洲动物基金会估计，中国每年有成百上千万狗只被贩卖、屠宰。在中国一些地方，秋冬季是吃狗肉的旺季。在这些地方，狗肉被认为是性热、促进血液循环的滋补品。
Of the dogs that are slaughtered, many are raised expressly for food, but animal welfare groups suspect others are stolen. Since last year, the Chinese government has required dog traders to have each animal vaccinated before transporting it. This has cut deeply into profits, because it can cost up to 500 renminbi, about $80, to clear a dog for travel. Traffickers can reduce costs by stealing pets and ignoring the vaccination requirement.
不少被屠宰的狗是专门饲养的，但动物福利组织怀疑还有很多是偷来的。从去年开始，中国政府要求每一只狗必须经过免疫，才能运输。这极大地压缩了狗肉产业的利润空间，因为给一只狗办起运输所需的免疫和检疫手续，花费大约可达500元。活狗贩卖者为了降低成本，就去偷狗，而且无视免疫规定。
In the citizen interventions in August, the police were called in and some 4,000 dogs were seized in at least four cases in which traffickers were found to lack the mandatory health certificates, according to a report by China Central Television, the state broadcaster.
8月的几起民众救狗事件中，警方都接到报案来到现场。在至少四起事件中，共有约4000只狗因没有国家规定的规范检疫证明而被罚没。
But once the dogs were seized, there was no legal provision for dealing with them. Organizations such as the Capital Animal Welfare Association stepped forward to take responsibility for the animals, but it has proven to be a daunting task.
但法律没有明确规定罚没的狗如何处理。像首都爱护动物协会这样的组织于是出面，把这个责任承担了下来。但他们很快发现，这是一个艰巨的任务。
The association took in about 160 dogs seized on Aug. 23 on a highway in northern Beijing. Many of the dogs were sick, from starvation and illness, and it quickly became clear they were not suitable for adoption, said the group’s president, Qin Xiaona. “We were optimistic, but now we’re stuck with the dogs,” Ms. Qin said.
首都爱护动物协会接收了约160只狗，都是8月23日在北京北郊公路上拦截罚没的。很多狗因饥饿和伤病，健康状况很糟糕。协会很快意识到，这些狗不适合被领养。会长秦肖娜说：“我们本来挺乐观的，现在我们却处理不出去了。”
So far, more than 60 of the dogs taken in have died of their ailments. But for now, the rescuers say, euthanasia is not an option. Ms. Qin’s group sees that as a public relations minefield in China.
约有60只狗已经抢救不及死亡。但又不能做安乐死。秦肖娜说，首都爱护动物协会不能做安乐死的决定，因为争议太大。
“Animal protectionists fear euthanasia could give the opponents, i.e., dog meat traders and people supporting dog eating, a handle to attack them,” said Peter Li, China specialist for the Humane Society International, a nonprofit organization based in the United States. “It is a tough decision, a risky one.”
“中国动物保护人士担心做安乐死会授人以柄，让那些贩卖狗肉和支持吃狗肉的人用来攻击他们，”美国国际人道协会(Humane Society International)中国政策顾问李坚强(Peter Li)说。“这是个艰难的决定，风险很大。”
Meanwhile, the bills keep mounting. Capital Animal Welfare Association has raised less than 200,000 renminbi to care for the dogs, and still owes about 30,000 renminbi to pharmacists, Ms. Li said. The association has also not paid the animal hospitals, some of the veterinarians or the farmer who lets the volunteers use his yard, Ms. Qin said.
同时，首都爱护动物协会的开支却越来越大。协会已经筹到不到20万元，但李伟说，欠药商的钱已有3万多。秦肖娜说，欠动物医院、兽医和吕村提供场地的农户的费用也还未支付。
Some 500 miles to the south, in the coastal city of Yantai, another group of animal welfare advocates was handed 850 dogs it had helped the authorities seize on Aug. 11.
远在山东烟台，另一家动物保护组织也接收了850只狗，是他们8月11日协助罚没的。
“We’ve never handled this many dogs before,” said Wang Chunhong, director of Yantai Headquarters for Stray Animals Aid. “But the police seemed to think we had enough volunteers and shelter space.”
“我们从来没有一次性处理过这么多狗，”烟台流浪动物救助基地的站长王春红说，“但警方可能觉得我们义工多，场地也大。”
Nearly half of those dogs have died from distemper since her organization took them in, Ms. Wang said.
王春红说，由于犬瘟等疾病，近一半的狗已经死亡。
The predicament of these two animal welfare groups reflects a pattern in China of civil society organizations responding swiftly and with compassion to an emergency — employing social media and mobile phones to track down and intercept traffickers — but lacking the means to follow through.
这两家动物保护组织的困境突显了中国民间组织应对突发事件的一个规律：他们反应速度快，而且充满了爱心，借助社交网络和手机，可以迅速拦截狗贩子，但他们缺乏足够的资源处理善后。
Another animal welfare group, China Small Animal Protection Association, was sued by 10 animal hospitals in Beijing after it rescued about 500 dogs seized in 2011, but then was unable to pay the resulting medical bills. A Beijing court ordered the group to pay 480,000 renminbi to the hospitals, according to Chinese news reports.
2011年，中国小动物保护协会参与救下约500只狗，但事后无力偿还10家动物医院的医疗费，被告上法庭。媒体报道，北京一中院二审判该组织偿还欠款48万元。
“Resources should not be wasted on sick animals” — which is most of them “given they come from untraceable or even illicit sources,” said Liu Lang, president of the Beijing Small Animal Veterinary Association. “Those that can’t be adopted must be put down.”
北京小动物诊疗行业协会理事长刘朗说：“不应该把资源浪费在病狗身上，”并补充说，“因为狗的来源复杂，有的还是偷来的，”截获的狗病死率都很高。“不适合领养的狗应该安乐死，”他说。
But Mr. Liu and others said the larger problem was government inaction. “The authorities don’t want the mess, so they leave it to a bunch of citizens who are caring but incapable,” he said.
但刘朗等人也指出，更大的问题是政府不作为。他说：“官方不愿意麻烦，就交给一些有爱心没能力的人。”
An Xiang, founder and president of Beijing Dexiang Law Firm who advises the government on animal control enforcement, agreed: “Government officials are neglecting their duty if they find themselves responding to calls of citizen vigilantes rather than making seizures on their own.”
北京德翔律师事务所主任安翔律师为政府部门提供动物管理相关法律的顾问，他说：“政府如果总是等到民众发现报警才处理，而不是主动执法，那就是一种失职。”
The Beijing Public Security Bureau and the Beijing Agriculture Bureau, local government agencies charged with animal control, did not respond to requests for comment.
负责动物管理的北京市公安局和北京市农业局没有回应对本文置评的请求。
Still, animal welfare advocates see signs of improvement. In the 2011 interception in Beijing, which took place before the Agriculture Ministry imposed the vaccination rule, the police said they lacked the legal grounds to seize the dogs, so the activists ended up paying the traders 115,000 renminbi to free them. Last month, by contrast, all the dogs intercepted were confiscated by the police under the new rule. None of the dog traders was compensated.
但动物福利倡导者也看到了进步的迹象。2011年公路拦截发生的事后，农业部尚未出台“一犬一证”的运输规定，当时，警方说罚没狗只缺乏法律依据。结果，救助者凑齐11.5万元，从贩运者手中把狗买了下来。上个月就不同了，所有截下来的狗都因违反农业部新规定而被罚没，贩运者没有得到补偿。