HONG KONG — This city has one of the most highly regarded subway systems, with spotless stations, cellphone service on trains and even computers with free Internet access on some platforms. Getting from one side of Hong Kong Island to the other takes a mere 25 minutes for the eight-mile journey on trains that have a 99.9 percent on-time record.
香港——香港有广受赞誉的地铁系统：车站清洁整齐，车厢里覆盖了良好的手机信号，一些站台甚至提供了可以免费上网的电脑。横穿香港岛的路程为八英里，乘坐地铁仅需要25分钟，列车准点率达99.9%。
The subways of the Mass Transit Railway system, called the M.T.R. for short, were once thought to augur the death knell for a much slower and less comfortable mode of transport above ground: the century-old Hong Kong tram, which snakes slowly through the city’s heavy traffic, its passengers suffering through the tropical humidity without the air-conditioning that cools the underground transit network.
人们曾经以为，港铁(MassTransit Railway)将会宣告一种速度和舒适度都更低的地上交通工具、有着百年历史的香港有轨电车的消亡。这些电车缓慢地穿行在香港拥挤的街道上，由于没有空调，乘客们必须忍受香港热带气候的潮湿。而安装了空调的地铁里则凉爽宜人。
But the trams, perhaps surprisingly, are holding their own.
但是有轨电车却存活了下来，这或许有些不可思议。
“I take the tram very often — it’s convenient, economical and efficient,” said Derik Wong, 42, who works in the food and beverage industry and takes the tram 5 to 10 times a week. “If you plan your time well, the tram’s speed is not a problem.”
“我经常乘坐电车——它很方便、经济，而且便捷，”42岁的德里克·黄(Derik Wong)在餐饮业工作，每周乘坐电车5到10次。“如果把时间安排好，电车的速度不是问题。”
Called the ding-dings by locals for their pedestrian warning bells, the trams draw 200,000 riders a day for a price of 2.30 Hong Kong dollars, or 30 cents, a ride, regardless of distance traveled. Seniors pay half price.
因为车上安装了提醒路人避让的铃铛，有轨电车也被当地人称为“叮叮车”。有轨电车每天的乘坐人数达20万人，票价为2.3港元或30美分，无论距离远近。老年乘客可享受半价。
By comparison, fares on the subways of the M.T.R., which carries 5.1 million passengers a day, range from 4.10 to 7.50 Hong Kong dollars, or 53 to 97 cents.
相比之下，港铁的费用从4.1港元到7.5港元不等。每天的乘坐人数为510万人。
But just as important is the ease of the on-and-off commute on an island with a dense string of business and retail districts along its northern coast.
但由于香港岛北部拥有密集的商业区和购物区，随上随下类交通方式的便捷性同样重要。
The trams may be old and slow, with typical speeds of six miles per hour, but their popularity shows how in this ever-modernizing city, old habits survive. The system is privately run by a French operator and does not receive any money from the local government, unlike in New York City, where major modes of mass transit like the similarly aged subway system and the buses rely on large subsidies from Albany and City Hall.
有轨电车可能又旧又慢——一般速度为每小时六英里(约合十公里)，但是电车仍然广受欢迎，这显示出，在这个日益现代化的城市，一些传统的习惯仍有顽强的生命力。香港的有轨电车系统由一家法国私营企业运营，没有从港府获得任何资金。而纽约市的主要公共交通工具，比如同样老旧的地铁以及巴士，都依赖来自奥尔巴尼和市政厅的大量补贴。
Studies show that it is not just longtime Hong Kong residents who rely on the 109-year-old system.
研究显示，并非只有在香港居住了很长时间的居民才依赖这种拥有109年历史的交通工具。
“We’re very representative of Hong Kong,” said Emmanuel Vivant, the general manager of the system. “The old and the young use us. And a lot of white-collar people take trams during lunchtime,” shuttling, for instance, from the city’s huge financial towers to restaurants in nearby neighborhoods for meals.
“我们非常有香港特色，”有轨电车公司的总经理埃马纽埃尔·维旺(Emmanuel Vivant)说，“老人和年轻人都乘坐有轨电车。很多白领在午饭时间乘坐有轨电车，”一般是短程出行，比如，从香港那些巨型金融写字楼到附近居民区的餐馆吃饭。
The tram operator, Veolia Transport, has enough confidence in the trams’ place in Hong Kong that it is investing roughly $20 million to update the system, mainly with more durable aluminum cars to replace the old wooden ones. The new cars are designed to last five times longer — up to 20 years — before they need an overhaul. Perhaps belatedly, Veolia is also introducing audio and visual announcements of coming stops, improvements that tram systems elsewhere instituted years ago.
运营商威立雅运输(VeoliaTransport)对有轨电车在香港的地位有足够的信心，该公司正投资大约2000万美元对有轨电车系统进行升级，主要是用更耐用的铝合金车身代替原来的木制车身。新车厢的使用时间是原来的六倍——使用20年后才需要整体检修。威立雅还将引进视频和音频报站系统，这有些姗姗来迟，因为其他地区的有轨电车多年前就有了这些改进。
Still, the trams face increasing challenges from the well-financed M.T.R., which is expanding its reach around Hong Kong Island with a new line to the southwest coast, while extending its main Island Line to an area where the tram now faces no underground competition. Mr. Vivant acknowledges his company is “very much concerned about the future” because of the M.T.R.’s expansion.
尽管如此，有轨电车仍然面临着来自财大气粗的港铁的日益增多的挑战。后者正在将线路范围扩大到香港岛周边，开设了一条通往香港岛西南部的新线路，同时将主要的港岛线延伸到了一个原本只有电车的区域。维旺承认，港铁的扩张让他的公司“对未来深感忧虑”。
The M.T.R. system benefits not only from fare revenue, but from the more lucrative profits generated by the property develops above railway station sites, which include office towers and some of the famous high-end shopping malls that make Hong Kong a world tourist magnet.
港铁系统的利润不仅来自车票收入，还有地铁站周边房地产开发所带来的更丰厚利润，这些地产包括写字楼和一些著名的高端购物中心，这些购物中心为香港吸引了来自全球各国的游客。
To compete, Veolia must rely on some innovative ways to eke out money, not only by leasing billboards on the sides of the cars, but also by renting out antique trams for party rides. At the same time, Veolia has low fixed costs and does not outsource operations, and with trams coming by about every 90 seconds and generally packed standing room only with up to 110 passengers per car, the money keeps coming in.
为了与之竞争，威立雅必须依靠一些新的赚钱方法，除了出租车身两侧的广告牌，还要靠把古色古香的电车包给出游的团体来赚钱。与此同时，威立雅的固定成本较低，也没有把业务外包出去。有轨电车每90秒一班，站立的空间都挤得满满当当，每辆电车载客量最多为110人，因此，收入也能源源不断。
Veolia also benefits from its route simplicity. The M.T.R. has a labyrinthine underground network that can be time-consuming to navigate.
威立雅电车的路线简单，这也是一个优势。在港铁迷宫般的地下网络中穿行有时非常浪费时间。
The nostalgic pull of the trams keeps many riders loyal. The system was Hong Kong Island’s first mode of mass transit, running along the waterfront until land reclamation into Hong Kong Harbor effectively pushed the tram service inland. When Hong Kong considered eliminating the system in the 1980s, public support helped to keep the trams alive.
电车的怀旧感觉吸引了许多忠实的乘客。电车系统是香港岛的第一个公共交通系统，一直沿着码头区运营，直到香港填海工程让电车服务进入了香港岛内陆。上世纪80年代，港府曾考虑取消电车线路，是公众的支持让电车存活了下来。
“Trams are a symbol of Hong Kong,” said Peter Wong, 59, a retiree who said he had been taking them “since I was a kid.”
“电车是香港的象征之一，”59岁的彼得·黄(Peter Wong)已经退休，他说，自己“从小时候开始”就一直乘坐电车。
The cost is hard to criticize.
就票价而言，实在是无可挑剔。
“I don’t mind trams are not air-conditioned, because it’s good value for the money,” Mr. Wong said as he waited for a tram at Western Market. “You can’t demand everything with such a low fare. Also, Hong Kong culture is preserved in trams.”
“我不介意电车里没有空调，因为乘坐电车非常划算，”黄先生在西港城等电车时说，“票价这么低，你不能什么都想要。还有，有轨电车保存了香港的文化”。