From time to time, Dee Williams does a possession count. The last tally was 305.
迪伊·威廉姆斯(Dee Williams)时不时会清点自己的财产数。上一次统计出来的数字是305件。
In many homes, that may amount to the stuff found in the kitchen cupboards, or the contents of one walk-in closet. For Ms. Williams, it included all of her worldly belongings, from her bedroom suite (a mattress and a quilt) to her home entertainment equipment (a laptop) to her jewelry collection (four pieces in all: two necklaces and two pairs of earrings).
对于很多家庭而言，财产或许就是厨房碗柜里的餐具、步入式衣柜里的衣物等等。而对威廉姆斯来说，财产包括她在尘世间所拥有的一切，从床上用品（一张床垫和一床被子）、家庭娱乐设备（一台笔记本），到首饰收藏（一共四件，包括两条项链，两对耳环），全算在内。
“That’s everything,” she said, adding that she recently ordered a book on house design, a big splurge. “I’m constantly going through my stuff, figuring out what I should get rid of. Creep happens.”
“这就是我所有的东西了，”她说，同时还大大地炫耀了一番，说她最近订购了一本关于住宅设计的书，“我不停地整理东西，看看有什么是该处理掉的。否则东西总会囤积起来。”
When your house is 84 square feet, life gets pared down.
当你住的地方只有84平方英尺（约合7.8平方米）时，生活开支也会大幅减少。
Ten years ago, Ms. Williams, now 51, sold her three-bedroom bungalow in Portland, Ore., built a tiny house on a metal truck trailer and drove it to Olympia, Wash., where it came to rest in the backyard of her friends Hugh O’Neill and Annie McManus. Her “great room” is too small for a couch, her upstairs is just a sleeping loft with a skylight. There’s a kitchen counter with a propane one-burner, but no oven or refrigerator. There are lights, but they run on solar power. There’s a sink and a toilet, but no running water (which means composting and no shower).
威廉姆斯现年51岁。十年前，她卖掉了自己位于俄勒冈州波特兰(Portland)的一套三居室单层住宅，在一辆金属卡车的拖车上造了栋小房子，开着它来到了华盛顿州的奥林匹亚(Olympia)，把车停到了朋友休·奥尼尔(Hugh O’Neill)和安妮·麦克马纳斯(Annie McManus)家的后院里。她的“大厅”太小了，连张沙发也放不下；而她所谓的二楼，只是个有一扇天窗的小夹层。屋里的厨房台面上有一台丙烷单灶炉，但没有烤箱和冰箱。屋里有灯，但是由太阳能发电的。屋里还有一个水槽、一间厕所，但是没有自来水（所以只能采用堆肥厕所，平常也不能洗淋浴）。
Visitors to the property may be forgiven for thinking someone had taken up residence in a beautifully built pine-and-cedar toolshed out back.
来访的人都会觉得，这栋房子是一座由松木和雪松木搭建的工具房。外观很漂亮，只是房子里并没有摆放工具，而是住了人。
Before going tiny, Ms. Williams wanted to downsize, inspired by a trip she took to an impoverished area of Guatemala, and the growing sense that her life was being consumed by household chores. But, as she writes in “The Big Tiny” (Blue Rider Press), her affecting new memoir, there came a point when her heart, quite literally, was no longer in a standard-size house.
在入住迷你小屋之前，威廉姆斯就产生了缩小住房面积的想法，这个想法源自她在危地马拉一个贫困地区的一场旅行。而且，她日益感觉到，自己的生活都被琐碎的家务吞噬了。不过，正如她在自己新出版的那本颇有感染力的回忆录《迷你屋，大天地》（The Big Tiny，由Blue Rider Press出版）中写的那样，就在某一刻，她的心突然对标准尺寸的房子失去了兴趣。这么说一点也不假。
At 40, Ms. Williams had a heart attack and was told she had cardiomyopathy, a condition that can be fatal. She began to consider her mortality, and how she wanted to spend her remaining time. Cleaning the gutters didn’t rank high on the list.
40岁时，威廉姆斯经历了一次心脏病发作。医生说她有心肌症，这是一种致命的疾病。于是她开始审视自己不久于人世的命运，思考自己的余生该怎么过。她不想把时间浪费在清理下水道上。
“I started seeing ‘congestive heart failure’ in my health records,” Ms. Williams said. “If you look it up online, your life expectancy is typically one to five years. The notion of paying a 30-year mortgage didn’t make sense.”
“我开始在病例中看到‘充血性心力衰竭’这样的词，”威廉姆斯说，“在网上搜索一下你就会发现，得了这种病之后，你一般只能活一到五年了。既然是这样，那干嘛还要背30年的房贷呢。”
In a doctor’s waiting room, Ms. Williams read a magazine article about a man named Jay Shafer and the tiny house he had built, and was taken with the idea. Soon she was flying to Iowa City to meet with Mr. Shafer, a guru in the tiny-house world, and poring over blueprints back in Portland. It was a distinctive response to a health crisis, she admits.
有一次在候诊室，威廉姆斯在杂志上读到一篇文章，文章介绍了杰伊·谢弗(Jay Shafer)和他建造的迷你屋。威廉姆斯被这个主意吸引了。很快，她坐飞机去了爱荷华城(Iowa City)，见到了谢弗，这位迷你住宅界的导师级人物。回到波特兰后，她开始潜心研究设计图。她坦言，这是一种应对健康危机的独特方式。
“Lots of people end up with a bad diagnosis,” Ms. Williams said. “But they don’t end up building a little house.”
“很多人都被诊断出了恶性疾病，”威廉姆斯说，“但是他们不会因此去建造小房子。”
Still, she added, “Living in a little house made sense for me, it clicked. It gave me a chance to live close to my friends and be happy with the time that I have.”
尽管如此，她接着说道，“住小房子对我来说挺好的，感觉很适合我。这让我有机会和朋友们住得更近，而且对自己拥有的时间感到知足。”
In the book, Ms. Williams writes about inviting her friends over to her bungalow to show them the floor plan of her new tiny house. The proposed living space was not much bigger than the area rug on which she stood. One of those friends, Joan Grimm, recalled her skepticism.
威廉姆斯在书中提到，搬家前，她曾把朋友们叫到家里，给他们展示自己那个迷你新家的平面图。图上规划的居住面积跟她当时脚下的小地毯比，也大不了多少。琼·格里姆(Joan Grimm)是当时在场的朋友之一，她回忆道，当时她向威廉姆斯提出了质疑。
“I remember looking at her and going: ‘You are a kook. This doesn’t make any sense,’ ” Ms. Grimm said. “I had no construct for that in my head. I was working so hard for a house. I was thinking, this is never going to last. Or this will last a month.”
“我记得当时我看着她说：‘你疯了，这根本就行不通，’”格里姆说，“我当时对那种东西还没有概念。我辛辛苦苦挣钱，就是为了买一套房子。我觉得，那种房子她住不了多久的，顶多一个月。”
These days, Ms. Grimm is Ms. Williams’s business partner in Portland Alternative Dwellings, a company that provides resources for building tiny houses to the D.I.Y. crowd.
而现在，格里姆是威廉姆斯的商业合伙人，她们联合创立了波特兰另类民居(Portland Alternative Dwellings)这家公司，为建造迷你屋的DIY一族提供资源。
“Dee always says there’s one part how-to and two parts why-not,” Ms. Grimm said. “There’s a point where you have to take a leap.”
“迪伊常说，做事情两分在决心，一分在方法，”格里姆说，“关键时刻，你必须跨出一大步。”
For Ms. Williams, that leap might have been less successful had she not landed where she did. By parking her tiny house in her friends’ backyard, she and her previous dog, RooDee, became part of a tiny community, whose members included Mr. O’Neill and Ms. McManus and their two young children, Keeva and Kellen, and Mr. O’Neill’s elderly Aunt Rita, who lived next door.
对威廉姆斯来说，如果当初没有找到落脚的地方，这一步就跨得没那么成功了。她把迷你小屋停靠在朋友家的后院之后，就和当时养的宠物狗鲁迪(RooDee)正式加入了一个迷你社区。其他成员则包括奥尼尔和麦克马纳斯这对夫妇、两人年幼的孩子基娃(Keeva)和凯伦(Kellen)，以及住在隔壁的奥尼尔年迈的姑妈丽塔(Rita)。
The shared backyard became a group living room, or The Compound, as they called it. And Ms. Williams was able to slip into Aunt Rita’s house to use the amenities her tiny house lacked — to shower, say, or bake a pie.
这个众人共享的后院，就成了一间公共起居室，他们称之为“复合物”(The Compound)。威廉姆斯要是自己家里缺什么用具，就可以溜进丽塔姑妈的房子里找。比方说，她可以去丽塔姑妈家洗淋浴、烤馅饼之类的。
“I started to feel that I belonged,” Ms. Williams said. “I was part of this setup. Aunt Rita was someone who needed my help. And she was really good company.” (Aunt Rita died last spring, and renters who embraced the Compound ethos have recently moved in.)
“我开始有了归属感，”威廉姆斯说，“我是这个迷你社区的一部分。丽塔姑妈平常需要我的帮助。而且有她作伴真的很好。”（丽塔姑妈去年春天去世了。最近，有几个认同“复合”生活理念的新房客搬了进来。）
It was a risk for her and her husband to invite Ms. Williams to park her tiny house on their property, Annie McManus admitted. But one that has paid off, especially for the children.
安妮·麦克马纳斯坦言，当初她和丈夫邀请威廉姆斯把迷你屋停在自家后院，确实是冒了点险的。但是这样做得到了回报，对于孩子们尤其如此。
“In their growing-up years, they had both Dee and Rita as important adults in their life, beyond their mom and dad,” she said. “There was Dee and RooDee in the backyard. There was a lot of play, a lot of laughter.”
“他们在成长过程中，不仅有爸爸妈妈的陪伴，还有迪伊和丽塔作为人生道路上的重要成人导师。”她说，“迪伊和鲁迪就住在后院。生活中充满了玩耍的乐趣，充满了欢笑。”
Ms. McManus and Ms. Williams both cited the unplanned social interaction as a huge benefit. “I can walk outside and Dee is on her porch, and I can look up and say, ‘You want to go for a walk?’ ” Ms. McManus said.
麦克马纳斯和威廉姆斯都将这场始料未及的社交互动，视为一件大有裨益的事。“有时候我走到外面，迪伊待在门廊里，我就会抬起头跟她说，‘想不想一起出去走走？’。”麦克马纳斯说。
In the early years, Ms. Williams sometimes hitched her tiny house to her truck and drove it to workshops. But the house hasn’t budged lately, and it is likely to stay put for a long time. Asked if living in a tiny house has limited her romantic prospects, Ms. Williams, who has never been married, agreed that sleeping two is not an option, at least not for an extended period. Even houseguests are challenging, she said.
早几年，威廉姆斯有时会把迷你屋接到卡车上，开着卡车去参加一些研讨会。但是最近，她的迷你屋没怎么移动了，可能今后很长时间都会待在原地。当被问及住在迷你屋会不会限制恋爱机缘时，从未结婚的威廉姆斯坦言，两个人根本睡不下，至少是不可能维持较长时间。就连让客人留宿都困难，她说。
“When my brother comes to visit, I feel insulted that he brings a backpack,” Ms. Williams said, laughing. “Where are you going to put it?”
“我弟弟过来看我时带了个背包，让我挺生气，”威廉姆斯说着笑了起来，“我说，你打算把背包往哪儿放呢？”
She was recently involved in a relationship that made her question her commitment to tiny living. “I came to the conclusion that my little house fits now, but it might not always fit me,” she said. “I like to think I’d be brave enough to make the change.”
她最近交了个男朋友。这使她对迷你化起居的决心发生了动摇。“我得出的结论是，我的小房子现在住起来挺合适，但是不一定会永远合适。”她说，“我觉得要想改变，得有足够的勇气。”