The reaction to the failure of the grand jury to indict in the shooting of an unarmed black teenager, Michael Brown, by a white police officer, Darren Wilson, touched something deep and ancient and anguished in the black community.
手无寸铁的黑人青年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)被白人警察达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)击毙，而大陪审团未能针对此案提起公诉。之后民众采取的反应，显示出了黑人社区当中某种深刻、古老的痛苦感受。
Yes, on one level, the reaction was about the particulars of this case.
是的，在某种层面上，这种反应的原因在于本案的具体情况。
It was about whether Wilson’s use of force was appropriate or excessive that summer day when he fired a shot through Brown’s head and ended his life.
它在于威尔逊开枪击穿布朗的头颅、结束他生命的那个夏日，威尔逊使用的武力是否适当、是否过当。
It was about whether police officers’ attitudes towards the people they serve are tainted. Why was Wilson’s description of Brown in his testimony so laced with dehumanizing rhetoric, the superhuman predator and subhuman evil, “Hulk Hogan” and the “demon”?
它在于警务人员对他们服务的民众表现出的态度是否过于恶劣。为什么威尔逊在证词中描述布朗时，充斥着非人的措辞？仿佛是在形容超越人类的掠食者，或者比人类低劣的邪灵——比如：“霍克·霍肯”(Hulk Hogan)、“魔鬼”。
It was about whether the prosecutor performed his role well or woefully inadequately in pursuit of an indictment. Why did he take this course of action? Why didn’t he aggressively question Wilson when Wilson presented testimony before the grand jury? Why did he sound eerily like a defense attorney when announcing the results?
它在于检察官在寻求起诉的过程中，是否恰当履行了职责，是否调查不力。为什么他采取了这种行动策略？为什么威尔逊对大陪审团发表证言的时候，他没有极力质问？为什么他在宣读结果时，有一种好似辩护律师的诡异感觉？
And yet the reaction was also about more than Wilson and Brown. It was about faith in fundamental fairness. It was about whether a population of people with an already tenuous relationship with the justice system — a system not established to recognize them, a system used for generations to deny and subjugate them, a system still rife with imbalances toward them — would have their fragile and fraying faith in that system further shredded.
然而民众的反应又不仅仅在于威尔逊和布朗，而是在于对基本的公平抱有的信念。它在于一个与司法体系已然关系薄弱的族群，是否能将脆弱、破损的信心，寄于这个越发破败的体系之上——这个体系的建立并不是为了认可他们，世世代代以来这个体系的作用都是否定和遏制他们，而且这个失衡的体系当中仍然充斥着针对他们的不公。
As President Obama put it: “The fact is, in too many parts of this country, a deep distrust exists between law enforcement and communities of color. Some of this is the result of the legacy of racial discrimination in this country.”
就像奥巴马总统所说的：“事实是，在这个国家的太多地方，执法机关与有色族群之间，存在深深的不信任。其部分原因是这个国家种族歧视的历史。”
He continued, “There are still problems and communities of color aren’t just making these problems up.”
他接着说道，“问题仍然存在，而这些问题并不是有色族群编造出来的。”
No, they are not. An October analysis by ProPublica of police shootings from 2010 to 2012 found that young black males are 21 times more likely to be shot dead by police officers than their white counterparts.
的确不是。ProPublica今年10月对2010年至2012年之间，警方开枪击毙嫌疑人的事件进行了分析，结果发现年轻黑人男性被警方击毙的可能性，是白人的21倍。
And yet, people like the former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani want to blame the victims. On “Meet the Press,” he dodged the issue of white police forces policing black populations, and raised another: intra-racial murder statistics in the black community. After proclaiming that “93 percent of blacks are killed by other blacks,” he asked a fellow panelist, Michael Eric Dyson, a black Georgetown University professor, “why don’t you cut it down so so many white police officers don’t have to be in black areas?”
然而，像纽约市前市长鲁迪·朱利安尼(Rudy Giuliani)这样的人，却想要归咎于受害者。在《与媒体见面》(Meet the Press)节目上，他回避了白人警察在黑人社区执行警务的问题，而是提出了另一个问题：黑人社区内部的谋杀数据。他先是宣称“93%的黑人都是被别的黑人杀死的”，又问另一位讨论嘉宾，乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的黑人教授迈克尔·埃里克·戴森(Michael Eric Dyson)，“为什么你们不把这个数字降一降？那样就不用让这么多白人警察到黑人社区了。”
Classic blame-the-victims deflection and context-free spouting of facts. What Giuliani failed to mention, what most people who pay attention to murder statistics understand, is that murder is for the most part a crime of intimacy. People kill people close to them. Most blacks are killed by other blacks, and most whites are killed by other whites.
这是通过指责受害者来转移话题、脱离语境罗列事实的典型做法。朱利安尼没有提到的一点是，多数关注谋杀数据的人都能注意到，谋杀大部分是熟人之间发生的犯罪。人们谋杀的都是身边的人，多数黑人是被其他黑人杀害的，多数白人也是被其他白人杀害的。
In fact, it is so intimate that one study has found that people likely to be involved in murder cases can be predicted by their social networks. A Yale study last year examining “police and gun homicide records from 2006 to 2011 for residents living within a six-square-mile area that had some of the highest rates for homicide in Chicago” found that “6% of the population was involved in 70% of the murders, and that nearly all of those in the 6% already had some contact with the criminal justice or public health systems.”
实际上，谋杀案件为熟人作案的可能是如此之高，以至于一项研究显示，可能涉足谋杀案件的人，是可以通过他们的社交圈子来预测的。耶鲁大学(Yale)去年开展的一项研究检视了“2006年至2011年警方和涉枪凶杀案的记录，这些记录涉及芝加哥市凶杀案发率最高的6平方英里（约合259万平方米）内的居民”。研究发现，“这些居民中的6%参与了70%的杀人案，这6%的居民中，几乎全部都与刑事司法或公共卫生系统有过某种形式的接触。”
As a co-author of the study put it, the relationship among killers and those killed was like a virus: “It’s not unlike needle sharing or unprotected sex in the spread of H.I.V.”
这项研究的一位合著者说，杀人凶手与受害者之间的关系，就像一种病毒：“与HIV传播过程中，共用针头或无保护的性行为的作用相似。”
So, what are we saying to the vast majority that are not involved: that they must accept the unconscionable racial imbalance in the police shooting numbers as some sort of collateral damage in a war on crime? No!
那么，我们对于并未涉足犯罪的绝大多数人想说的是什么呢：他们必须要接受警方射杀的人数当中极不合理的种族不平衡，因为这是打击犯罪的斗争中的误伤？不！
It’s an unfathomable, utterly immoral argument, and let’s not give Giuliani a pass for making it. After all, New York’s obscenely race-biased stop-and-frisk program was introduced under Giuliani, and some of the most notorious police violations of black men in recent history happened on his watch. As The New York Times recounted in a lengthy 2001 profile:
这是一种不可理喻、极端不道德的论调，而朱利安尼说出这种话尤其令人侧目。纽约市基于种族的拦截搜身(stop-and-frisk)行动骇人听闻，这种做法正是在朱利安尼的治理下推出的。近些年历史上，警方侵犯黑人男性权利的某些最恶劣的事件，就是在他的任内发生的。《纽约时报》曾在2001年发表过一篇长篇报道，文中讲述道：
“In the summer of 1997, a police officer brutalized a Haitian immigrant named Abner Louima in a bathroom of a Brooklyn station house. In the winter of 1999, four members of the Police Department’s Street Crime Unit, searching the Bronx streets for a rapist, shot and killed an unarmed African immigrant named Amadou Diallo; they had mistaken his wallet for a gun. And in the winter of 2000, just as Mr. Giuliani was gearing up his candidacy for the United States Senate, an undercover officer shot and killed an unarmed black security guard named Patrick Dorismond after a brief struggle in Midtown; the victim had been offended by the undercover officer’s inquiries about buying some drugs.”
“在1997年夏天，一名警察在布鲁克林车站的厕所里暴打一位名为阿伯纳·路易马(Abner Louima)的海地移民。在1999年冬天，警察局街头犯罪科(Street Crime Unit)的四名警员在布朗克斯街头搜捕一名强奸犯的过程中，击毙了名为阿玛杜·迪亚洛(Amadou Diallo)的非洲移民，后者未携带武器，警员误认为他的钱包是把枪。2000年冬天，就在朱利安尼加大力度竞选参议员时，一名卧底警员在曼哈顿中城(Midtown)击毙了一名未携带武器的黑人保安，后者名为帕特里克·杜里斯蒙德(Patrick Dorismond)，开枪前二人曾发生短暂打斗。该受害者之所以被激怒，是因为卧底警员向他询问，要买一些毒品。”
Also, race is not the best lens through which to consider criminality. Concentrated poverty may be a better lens. According to a July Brookings report:
此外，种族也并不是考虑犯罪问题的最佳视角。集中的贫困问题可能是更好的视角。今年7月布鲁金斯学会(Brookings)的一份报告写道：
“Poor individuals and families are not evenly distributed across communities or throughout the country. Instead, they tend to live near one another, clustering in certain neighborhoods and regions. This concentration of poverty results in higher crime rates, underperforming public schools, poor housing and health conditions, as well as limited access to private services and job opportunities.”
“贫穷的个人或家庭，并不是在各个社区或全国范围内均匀分布的。相反，他们往往住得离彼此很近，聚居在特定的社区和区域。这种贫困人群的集中，导致了高犯罪率、公立学校成绩欠佳、住房和医疗条件糟糕，也限制了私营部门服务的提供，以及就业岗位的发展。”
If we are serious about fighting crime, we must seriously consider the reason— on both an individual and systemic level — these pockets of concentrated poverty developed, are maintained, and have in fact grown and spread.
如果我们打击犯罪的态度是认真的，就必须在个人和体系的层面上，严肃地考虑贫困人口集中的地带为什么会产生、延续，而且实际上还在扩大蔓延。
But this is not about Giuliani and the police aggression apologists. This is about whether black boys and men, as well as the people who love them, must fear both the criminal and the cop.
不过，重要的不是朱利安尼，也不是替警方行动辩解的人。而是少年和成年的黑人男性，以及那些爱他们的人，是不是一定要既害怕犯罪，也害怕警察。
Sadly, for many, the Ferguson case reaffirmed a most unsettling sense that they are under siege from all sides.
很遗憾，对于很多人而言，弗格森案再一次确认了一种最令人不安的感觉：他们腹背受敌。
So people took to the streets. Who could really blame them?
所以人们走上了街头。谁又能真的指责他们？
Some simply saw protests marred by senseless violence. I saw that, to be sure, and my heart hurt seeing it. But I also saw decades, generations, centuries of pain and frustration erupting once more into view. I saw hearts crying and souls demanding to be heard, to be seen, to be valued.
一些人只是看到，示威被残忍的暴力玷污了。当然，我也目睹了暴力，见到这些场景心中也很痛苦。不过我也看到，数十年、数代人、数个世纪以来的痛苦和挫败，再一次迸发到我们眼前。我看到心灵在哭泣，灵魂在呼喊，想被人听见、被人看见、受人重视。
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once said, “A riot is the language of the unheard.” King, a great champion of nonviolence, wasn’t advocating rioting, but rather honoring hearing.
神父小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)曾说，“骚乱是无人倾听者的语言。”小马丁·路德·金是非暴力原则的伟大倡导者，他并不是在鼓吹骚乱，而是赞赏倾听。
Even long-suffering people will not suffer forever. Patience expires. The heart can be broken only so many times before peace is broken. And the absence of peace doesn’t predicate the presence of violence. It does, however, demand the troubling of the comfortable. When the voice goes unheard, sometimes it must be raised. Sometimes when calls for justice go unmet, feet must meet pavement. Sometimes when you are unseen, you can no longer remain seated. Sometimes you must stand and make a stand.
即使长期承受苦难的人也不会永远都愿意承受。耐心总有耗尽的一天。心碎太多次，内心的平和迟早会被打破。然而不再平和，也并不意味着诉诸暴力。不过，的确需要让那些舒适的人感到不安。如果呼声没人听见，有时就必须提高音量。如果正义的诉求没有满足，有时就必须踏上街头。如果别人看不到你，有时你就该站起身来。有时候你必须要站起来，表明立场。
No one of good character and conscience condones rioting or looting or any destruction of property. Those enterprises aren’t only criminal, they’re fruitless and counterproductive and rob one’s own neighborhood of needed services and facilities and unfairly punish the people who saw fit to follow a dream and an entrepreneurial spirit, and invest in themselves and those communities in the first place.
没有一个品格正直、有良知的人能够容忍骚乱、掠夺，以及任何破坏财物的行径。这些做法不仅是犯罪，而且毫无效果、适得其反。这是在从自己的社区抢夺众人所需的服务和设施。这是对那些认为应该追求梦想、发挥创业精神的人，做出不公平的惩罚，他们从一开始就是在为自己投资，也为整个社区投资。