LONDON — These have been heady days for those who like to ponder whether there is such a thing as a one-size-fits-all election, whether democracy, in other words, is indivisible.
伦敦——对于那些热衷于思考是否存在一种普遍适用于所有人的选举，或者说民主是否不可分割的人，这些日子着实令人兴奋。
There was, first off, the presidential vote in Egypt, a ballot built on the premise that the outcome — the election of Abdel Fattah el-Sisi — was a foregone conclusion. That came just after the election in Ukraine tested the notion that suffrage need not be completely universal if part of the populace is locked in an insurgency.
首先是埃及的总统选举——这次投票的前提是阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)当选的结果已经事先确定。这次选举之前不久，乌克兰的选举刚刚试验了这样一种观念：如果一部分民众陷入反叛运动，投票权不需要是全民的。
Combining the two — a foregone conclusion in the teeth of a full-blown civil war — Syrians voted this week in an election intended to give President Bashar al-Assad a third seven-year term and, in the eyes of his supporters, legitimacy to dictate the country’s future.
叙利亚的选举将上述两场选举的特征结合在一起：结果事先确定，内战如火如荼。叙利亚人本周举行了投票，这次选举的意图是为巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统赋予第三个长达七年的任期，而在支持者的眼中，这也能向阿萨德赋予决定该国未来的合法性。
Then there was Europe. Voters in the 28 member states of the European Union cast ballots last month for the European Parliament, and handed a huge boost to rebellious populists clamoring for change. Within days, though, the bloc’s leaders seemed to have reverted to a more familiar style, their energies focused on whether a former prime minister of Luxembourg, Jean-Claude Juncker, should become the new head of the European Commission, the union’s all-powerful central executive.
还有欧洲。欧洲联盟(European Union)中28个成员国的选民上周在欧洲议会选举中进行了投票，高呼变革的叛逆民粹派得到了极大的助推。不过几天后，欧盟领导人似乎就恢复了更熟悉的行事风格，把精力都放在了该不该让卢森堡前首相让-克洛德·容克(Jean-Claude Juncker)担任欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席之上。欧盟委员会是欧盟中权力巨大的中央行政机构。
The public will not be asked to make that choice; it is likely to come down to back-room horse-trading among figures like Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany (pro-Juncker) and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain (anti-Juncker).
这个抉择不会让公众做出，而是很有可能取决于德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)这样的人物之间，关起门来进行的讨价还价。默克尔支持容克，卡梅伦反对容克。
In these examples, taken together, the question that intrudes is whether, with different shadings, elections are not so much totems of democracy as its Achilles’ heel.
将这些例子汇总在一起，产生了一些问题，尽管具体情况略有差异，但核心都是：选举是否已经不再是民主的图腾，而是成了民主的“阿喀琉斯之踵”？
Anyone, it seems, can hold an election, and the list of the countries that have girds the globe, from Zimbabwe to Kazakhstan. But in dictatorships, elections are not so much the fruit of democracy as the emblem of its perversion; the act of voting is intended only to create a chimera of legitimacy, not what Abraham Lincoln called “government of the people, by the people, for the people.”
似乎任何人都能开展选举，举行选举的国家遍布全球，诸如津巴布韦和哈萨克斯坦。然而在独裁国家，与其说选举是民主的成果，不如说它是民主受到歪曲的象征。投票的举动只是为了创造出合法性的幻觉，而不是为了建立亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)所说的“民有、民治、民享的政府”。
“Elections are a necessary component, but not a sufficient condition, for democracy — or more specifically, a liberal democracy,” said Hisham Melhem, a senior journalist with the Arabic news channel Al Arabiya. “A modern democracy cannot exist without free, fair and transparent elections, but elections alone do not a democracy make.”
“对于民主而言，或者更具体地说，对于自由民主而言，选举是必要的组成部分，但并不是其充分条件，”阿拉伯语新闻频道阿拉伯电视台(Al Arabiya)资深记者希沙姆·穆勒哈姆(Hisham Melhem)指出。“如果没有自由、公正、透明的选举，现代的民主制度就无法存在，但单靠选举并不能造就民主制度。”
Perhaps the single most telling image from Damascus on Tuesday was a television sequence showing Mr. Assad and his wife, Asma, posing for the cameras at a polling place. Moments like that are part of the ritual of elections everywhere — leader pauses and smiles, ballot paper hovering over the narrow portal of democracy, spouse waiting nearby.
周二来自大马士革的画面中，最有深意的恐怕就是阿萨德和他的妻子阿斯玛(Asma)在一个投票点对着镜头摆姿势的电视画面。这样的时刻在世界各地都是选举惯例中的一部分——领导人驻足微笑，选票的那张纸在投票箱的狭窄开口上方悬停片刻，仿佛那是通向民主的路径，领导人的伴侣则在身旁守候。
But in Mr. Assad’s case, the unseen backdrop to the polling place was a canvas of ruined cities, refugees and insurgency, daubed across the nation by three years of civil war.
然而在阿萨德投票时，投票站背后看不见的布景却是废城、难民和叛军。经过三年的内战，惨状在叙利亚全国比比皆是。
The elections in Egypt and Syria represented a triumph of process and imagery over democracy’s supposed essence. And, perhaps, there is a cruel twist there for those in the United States and elsewhere in the West who have laid such stress on the mechanics of the ballot box.
埃及和叙利亚的选举象征着，程序和表象胜过了民主所谓的实质。对于美国和其他西方国家那些如此强调选举机制的人来说，这可能也是一个残酷的转变。
As the Arab Spring took root in 2011, American and European democracy advocates became its greatest cheerleaders; they did the same in February for the effort to topple the Russian-backed president of Ukraine, Viktor F. Yanukovych.
自从阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring)运动2011年生根以来，美国和欧洲的民主倡导者就成了最热心的拉拉队。今年2月，在推翻受俄罗斯支持的乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的过程中，他们也是这样做的。
But since then, Russia has annexed Crimea, and insurgencies have spread across eastern Ukraine. In the Middle East, the removal of entrenched elites and the enthusiasm of protesters on the street have not proved synonymous with the implantation of imported notions of democracy.
然而从那时以来，俄罗斯已经吞并了克里米亚，叛乱者已经扩散到了整个乌克兰东部。在中东，根深蒂固的精英阶层被推翻，街头的示威者也表现出了汹涌的热情，但这并不意味着舶来的民主观念植入了当地。
“The democratic aspirations of the protesters who filled streets and public squares across Syria in early 2011 were among the conflict’s first casualties,” Steven Heydemann, of the Center for Applied Research on Conflict at the United States Institute of Peace, wrote in an article last year. “If democracy as an outcome of the uprising was always uncertain, democratic prospects have been severely crippled by the devastation of civil war and the deepening fragmentation of Syrian society.”
“2011年初，叙利亚各地的示威者涌上街头和公共广场。但他们心中怀有的民主愿望，是冲突中最早的牺牲品，”美国和平研究所(United States Institute of Peace)冲突应用研究中心(Center for Applied Research on Conflict)的史蒂文·海德曼(Steven Heydemann)说。“起义是否能取得民主的成果从来都是不确定的，而内战的破坏和叙利亚社会分裂的加剧，则严重破坏了民主的前景。”
Three years after the Arab Spring began, the wheel in Egypt seems to have come full circle: Official results in Cairo gave Mr. Sisi, the former field marshal, almost 97 percent of the vote, just the sort of landslide that used to be announced every few years for Hosni Mubarak, the former general who ran the country for three decades before 2011.
阿拉伯之春开始三年后，埃及的历史之轮又转回了原处。开罗的官方选举结果显示，前陆军元帅塞西赢得了近97%的选票。胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)在任时，每隔几年恰恰也会宣称赢得这种压倒性的选举胜利。曾任将领的穆巴拉克统治埃及长达三十年，直至2011年倒台。
Still, the validity of elections is not judged solely on the sentiments of those who vote.
不过，选举的有效性并不能仅靠投票者的情绪判断。
In South Africa last month, one opposition group counseled its followers to spoil their ballots to show their displeasure, if they could not find an alternative to President Jacob G. Zuma — strange advice in a land that spent decades fighting an apartheid regime for the right to cast those very ballots. (Not many voters heeded the group’s call.)
上个月在南非，一个反对派团体建议其追随者，如果找不到替代现任总统雅各布·G·祖玛(President Jacob G. Zuma)的选项，就污损选票以示不满——在这个为了对抗种族隔离制度，赢得投票权而斗争数十年的国家，真是个奇怪的建议。（并没有多少选民听从这个团体的号召。）
In Egypt, the reported turnout was about 47 percent of eligible voters, far short of the level Mr. Sisi sought in his quest for a convincing mandate. Followers of Mohamed Morsi, the freely elected Islamist president whom Mr. Sisi overthrew last year, boycotted the election this time. In the 2012 elections that brought Mr. Morsi to power, the turnout was 52 percent.
在埃及，公布的投票率约为全部合格选民的47%，远低于塞西为了令人信服地取得授权所寻求的人数。自由选举产生的伊斯兰派总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)去年被塞西推翻。穆尔西的的追随者抵制了这次的选举。在2012年把穆尔西送上台的选举中，投票率为52%。
Participation was low in the European Parliament voting as well — 43 percent on average, and much lower in some countries, like Slovakia, where turnout was only 13 percent.
欧洲议会选举的投票率也很低，平均只有43%。某些国家的投票率则明显更低，如斯洛伐克的投票率仅为13%。
On Wednesday, it was clear that, with millions of Syrians living as refugees and many more living behind the swirling lines of the insurgency in areas outside government control, where no attempt was made to organize balloting, the participation rate would be a matter of definition.
周三时，有一点已经很清楚，那就是有数百万叙利亚人沦为难民，更多人居住在不受政府控制的叛乱区域，在它们当中并没有组织投票的举措。所以投票率有多少取决于如何定义。
The official results gave Mr. Assad victory with 88.7 percent of the votes and a turnout of 73.47 percent. More than 10 million people, the Syrian authorities said, had voted for him.
官方的投票结果称，阿萨德以88.7%的得票率赢得选举，选举中投票率为73.47%。叙利亚官方称，有超过1000万人投票支持阿萨德。
Mr. Assad’s opponents posted a mocking counterpoint online: a video, shot in a run-down and battered rebel-held area, that shows a man depositing a bag of garbage in a trash bin painted white to resemble a ballot box.
阿萨德的反对者在网上发布了一段视频进行嘲讽。视频是在反对派武装控制的地区，一片凋敝残破的区域拍摄的。视频中，一名男子把一袋垃圾丢进了一个涂成白色，酷似投票箱的垃圾桶里。