In carrying out limited airstrikes in Iraq, the Obama administration is pursuing a strategy that attempts to contain the threat posed by Islamic militants but that does not seek to break their hold on northern and western Iraq.
奥巴马政府在伊拉克实施有限的空中打击，是在执行一种试图遏制来自伊斯兰武装分子威胁的战略，但是，这种战略并不寻求瓦解他们对伊拉克北部和西部的控制。
“This was not an authorization of a broad-based counterterrorism campaign” against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, a senior administration official said.
一位政府高级官员说，“这不是授权展开大范围反恐行动”以抗击伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）。
But the control that ISIS now exerts over eastern Syria and much of the Sunni-dominated areas of Iraq remains an enormous worry for American counterterrorism officials, who warn that this territory has become a sanctuary for jihadists who may plan attacks against the West.  
但是，目前ISIS对叙利亚东部、以及伊拉克的大部分以逊尼派为主地区的控制，仍是美国反恐官员的一个巨大忧虑，这些官员警告说，该地区已成为圣战者的庇护地，他们可能从那里策划对西方的袭击。
In announcing that he had authorized military strikes Thursday night, President Obama noted that there was no American military solution to Iraq’s problems. And American officials have pointed out that the formation of a new multisect Iraqi government would go a long way toward easing the worries of many Sunnis and making them a less hospitable host for ISIS militants.
奥巴马总统在周四宣布他授权进行军事打击时说，伊拉克的问题不能用美国的军事手段来解决。美国官员指出，组建新的、由多个派系构成的伊拉克政府，将会大大有助于缓解许多逊尼派的疑虑，使他们对ISIS武装分子的热情有所减少。
But there also is no prospect of drawing ISIS into Iraq’s political process, and reclaiming the cities and towns lost to the militants will require an Iraqi counteroffensive far more effective than what has been shown so far. Advocates of greater American action, especially some members of Congress, call for sharing more intelligence, sending in teams of advisers and ordering expanded airstrikes.
但是，没有能把ISIS拉入伊拉克政治进程的前景，要收复被武装分子占领的城市和城镇，将需要伊拉克做出远比其迄今表现出的更有效的反攻。提倡美国采取更多行动的人，尤其是美国国会的某些成员，呼吁更多的情报共享，派遣顾问小组，已经下令扩大空中打击范围。
While Mr. Obama said in a recent interview with The New York Times that the United States is not going to allow ISIS to create a caliphate that runs through Syria and Iraq, and spoke generally of his interest in working with “partners on the ground,” he has yet to articulate a detailed and systemic strategy for rolling back ISIS’ gains in the region.
虽然奥巴马在最近一次采访中对《纽约时报》说，美国不会允许ISIS创建贯穿叙利亚和伊拉克的哈里发王国，并泛泛地提到他有意与“地面上的伙伴”进行合作，但他尚未阐明一种详细和系统的战略，以收复ISIS在该地区占领的地盘。
In remarks on Saturday before departing for vacation, Mr. Obama acknowledged that ISIS gains in recent months had been “more rapid than the intelligence estimates and, I think, the expectations of policymakers.”
在周六准备出发度假之前，奥巴马在讲话中承认，ISIS近几个月的攻势“迅猛程度超过情报估计，我认为也超过政策制定者的预期”。
On Friday, Secretary of State John Kerry indicated in a Friday news conference in Kabul that the White House was still deliberating over its long-term strategy to counter the militants.
上周五，美国国务卿约翰·克里在喀布尔周五的记者会上表示，白宫仍在酝酿在其长期战略，以对抗武装分子。
“The president has taken no option off the table, and there are current discussions taking place,” Mr. Kerry said at a Friday news conference in Kabul when asked if the White House had settled for containment and forsworn a more ambitious effort to roll back ISIS’ gains that could commence when a new Iraqi government forms.
克里在喀布尔周五的记者会上被问到，白宫是否已决定对ISIS采取遏制措施，放弃也许可以在伊拉克新政府形成后开始的，更费时耗力的行动以收复ISIS控制地区，他回答说，“总统没有排出任何可能的行动，目前正在进行有关讨论。”
A senior Kurdish official, who asked not to be named because he was discussing internal deliberations, said Saturday that the Kurdish authorities had asked the Obama administration several weeks ago to provide ammunition, sniper rifles, machine guns, mortars, vehicles and other equipment for their pesh merga fighters. Though the Iraqi government had recently provided some ammunition, he said, the Americans were still assessing the Kurdish request. “Pesh merga forces were forced to withdraw from engagements with ISIS forces because they ran out of ammunition,” said Michael D. Barbero, a retired Army lieutenant general who helped train Iraqi forces from 2009-11. “We should expedite this support to them.”
一位库尔德高级官员周六说，库尔德当局几周前已请求奥巴马政府为库尔德“敢死军”(pesh merga)战士提供弹药、狙击步枪、机枪、迫击炮、汽车和其他装备，这位官员不愿透露姓名，因为他评论的是内部的商议。他说，虽然伊拉克政府最近提供了一些弹药，但美国人仍在研究库尔德的请求。曾在2009到2011年帮助培训伊拉克部队的美国退役陆军中将迈克尔·D·巴贝罗说，“敢死军部队被迫停止了与ISIS力量作战，因为他们用尽了弹药。我们应该加快给他们提供这种支持。”
Another way to push back against ISIS would be to train and advise the Iraqi forces. The Pentagon sent about 300 Special Operations forces to Iraq to conduct an assessment of its forces, but administration officials have yet to decide whether to mount a substantial advisory effort.
另一种击退ISIS攻势的方法，是为伊拉克军队提供培训和指导。五角大楼已派出约300名特种作战部队成员，前往伊拉克对其军事力量进行评估，但政府官员还没有决定是否要安排大量的指导工作。
Now that American reconnaissance planes and drones have been tracking ISIS locations, the United States military also has more of the intelligence it would need if the administration elected to broaden the scope of its air attacks.
由于美国侦察机和无人机一直在跟踪ISIS出没的地点，一旦政府选择扩大其空中打击范围，美国军方也有其所需的更多情报。
Iraqi officials first floated the idea of airstrikes a year ago, and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki asked the United States to consider airstrikes in a May conversation with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. The White House began to make clear that airstrikes were an option after the fall of Mosul in June.
伊拉克官员在一年前曾首次提出空中打击的想法，努里·卡迈勒·马利基总理在五月份与副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登交谈时，也请求美国要考虑空中打击。摩苏尔在6月失守后，白宫开始明确表示，空中打击是一种可能性。
The threat that the United States is confronting in ISIS is not an entirely new one, and the danger the militants present to the Yazidi minority, which appeared to catch the administration by surprise and prompted Mr. Obama to authorize airstrikes, was foreshadowed seven years ago.
美国面对的来自ISIS的威胁并不是全新的，武装分子给雅兹迪(Yazidi)少数民族带来的危险七年前就有预兆，这种危险看来出乎美国政府的意料，并促使了奥巴马授权对武装分子进行空中打击。
ISIS was spawned out of Al Qaeda in Iraq, the militant group that was one of the United States’ principal nemesis during the war in Iraq.
美国在伊拉克战争期间的主要敌人之一是伊拉克的基地组织，而ISIS就是该激进组织催生的。
Al Qaeda in Iraq was severely weakened by the 2007 surge of American troops. But before that, it was blamed for a coordinated bombing in the Sinjar area on Aug. 14, 2007, that killed hundreds of Yazidis, the group’s deadliest attack of that war.
伊拉克的基地组织在2007年美国军队增兵后，力量受到严重削弱。但在那之前，它被指责在2007年8月14日在辛贾尔地区制造有组织的爆炸事件，导致数百名雅兹迪人死亡，这是该团伙在战争中制造的最致命袭击。
After rebranding itself as ISIS, the group has grown exponentially more challenging by exploiting the civil war in Syria; capturing stores of American-supplied arms and capitalizing on Sunni frustration with Mr. Maliki in Iraq; and seizing large sections of Iraqi territory virtually unchecked.
自从改名为ISIS以来，这个组织的挑战性得以急速增长，它利用了叙利亚的内战，缴获了美国提供的武器储备，并利用伊拉克逊尼派对马利基的不满，几乎不受限制地占领了伊拉克境内的大片地区。
Brett McGurk, the senior State Department official on Iraq policy, told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in June that ISIS had grown into a “full-blown army” that had been funneling up to 50 suicide bombers a month into Iraq from Syria, and which could direct suicide bombers to Europe or even the United States. In explaining his decision to employ air power in Iraq last week, Mr. Obama and his aides emphasized that the geographic and operational scope of the strikes was very limited.
美国国务院负责伊拉克政策的高级官员布雷特·麦古尔克(Brett McGurk)在6月份曾对参议院外交关系委员会说，ISIS已经成长为一支“成熟的军队”，最多每月可派50个自杀式袭击者从叙利亚进入伊拉克，也可能派遣携带自杀式炸弹的人前往欧洲、甚至美国。在解释他上周决定在伊拉克使用空中力量时，奥巴马和其助手们强调，空中打击的地理范围和行动范围都很有限。
The circumstances in which Mr. Obama said he would be prepared to use air power were to stop an advance by the militants on Erbil, where an American consulate is based and troops staff a joint operation center, and to protect the American Embassy in Baghdad. Mr. Obama also noted that he was prepared to mount airstrikes “if necessary” to help Kurdish or Iraqi forces break the siege of Mount Sinjar and to protect the tens of thousands of Yazidi civilians who have taken refuge there.
奥巴马说，他在几种情况下会使用空中力量，一是阻止武装分子对埃尔比勒的进攻，那里有一个美国领事馆，还有美军人员驻扎的一个联合行动中心；再就是保护美国驻巴格达大使馆。奥巴马还指出，他也会“在必要时”发动空中打击，以帮助库尔德或伊拉克部队打破对辛贾尔山的围困，保护在那里避难的成千上万的雅兹迪平民。
Though the Yazidis are being sustained by airlifts of food and water, breaking the siege remains a serious challenge. Mr. Obama said Saturday that he was confident American air power could prevent ISIS from going up the mountain to slaughter the Yazidis there — but that trying to create a “safe corridor” so the Yazidis could leave was challenging and “may take some time.”
虽然雅兹迪人靠空运的食物和水得以维持下去，但突破围困仍是一个严峻的挑战。奥巴马周六表示，他相信美国的空中力量可以阻止ISIS上山，去屠宰那里的雅兹迪人，但是，试图建立一个“安全走廊”，让雅兹迪人得以离开那里，仍具挑战性，“可能需要一段时间。”