Because of the cruel accidents of age and geography, I never set foot in CBGB during its 1970s punk heyday. So I can’t look at “CBGB” — Randall Miller’s sweet and nostalgic elegy to that defunct club and its owner and presiding spirit, Hillel Kristal, known to all, whether they actually knew him or not, as Hilly — and say, with the authority of experience, “It wasn’t like that.” I will leave it to others to point out the film’s lapses of chronology, taste and historical detail. But on the other hand, I would swear on a stack of Dead Boys T-shirts and a first pressing of Richard Hell and the Voidoids’ “Blank Generation” that it could not possibly have been like that: so silly, so trivial, so boring.
兰道·米勒(Randall Miller)的影片《CBGB》为这个已经关张的俱乐部，以及它的老板和灵魂人物希勒尔·克里斯托（Hillel Kristal，不管认不认识他的人都叫他“希利”）献上一曲温馨怀旧的挽歌。由于年龄和居住地的阴差阳错，我从来没能在20世纪70年代朋克的全盛时期踏进CBGB的大门，所以看片子的时候，也就没法凭着权威的体验说“根本不是这样”。我还是让其他人来指出影片在年代、品味和历史细节方面的疏漏吧。但是另一方面，我敢拿一堆“死亡男孩”(Dead Boys)的T恤衫，还有理查德·希尔(Richard Hell)与“Voidoids”《茫然一代》(Blank Generation)专辑的首版来打赌，真正的CBGB绝不可能这么蠢、这么平庸、这么没劲。
“CBGB” is less a piece of cultural history, music criticism or even fannish hagiography than a theme-park attraction, Disney’s Country Bear Jamboree with the likes of Tom Verlaine, Patti Smith, Joey Ramone and Deborah Harry in lieu of bears. These and other stars of the New York punk scene are played by actors who jump around and lip sync over familiar studio versions of well-known songs. It was probably fun for Malin Akerman to pretend to sing for Blondie and for Joel David Moore to do the same for the Ramones, but it is not much fun to watch them do it. The alternative would have been worse, of course — no one wants to hear bad new renditions of great old tunes — but the impersonations fall into the uncanny valley between comedy-sketch parody and cover-band homage.
《CBGB》并不是文化史、音乐评论，甚至也不是死忠歌迷的狂热回忆，它就像一个主题公园——迪斯尼的“乡村小熊俱乐部”(Country Bear Jamboree)，只不过把熊换成了汤姆·魏尔伦(Tom Verlaine)、帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)、乔伊·雷蒙(Joey Ramone)和黛博拉·哈利(Deborah Harry)。一众演员们饰演纽约朋克界的这群明星，他们上蹿下跳，对口型唱着那些耳熟能详的歌，而且还是录音室版本。马琳·阿克曼(Malin Akerman)假装唱“金发女郎”(Blondie)的歌，乔伊·大卫·摩尔(Joel David Moore)假装唱“雷蒙斯”(Ramones)的歌，他们自己或许感觉还挺好，观众的感觉可就没那么美妙。当然，要让这些演员自己唱肯定更糟，没人愿意听那些经典老歌被重新翻唱得一塌糊涂。但是这些表演既不是喜剧式的戏仿，也不是翻唱乐队式的致敬，而是落入了两者之间可怕的鸿沟。
The musicians are not really at the center of the movie, with the partial exception of the Dead Boys, a self-destructive Cleveland group that Kristal insisted on managing. (The Boys’ lead singer, Stiv Bators, is played by Justin Bartha, with his mates Cheetah Chrome and Johnny Blitz played by Rupert Grint and Bronson Adams.) The inscrutable, stubborn, shaggy-haired Hilly is the hero, and Alan Rickman plays him as a nice Jewish boy from a New Jersey chicken farm floating through the filthy streets of a pre-gentrified East Village.
乐手们并不是这部影片的中心，只有“死亡男孩”算是偏心的例外，这是一支自毁的克利夫兰乐队，克里斯托坚持要当他们的经纪人。乐队主唱斯蒂夫·巴特斯(Stiv Bators)由贾斯汀·巴萨(Justin Bartha)饰演，另两名队员奇塔·克罗姆(Cheetah Chrome)和约翰尼·布里兹(Johnny Blitz)分别由鲁伯特·格林特(Rupert Grint)和布伦森·亚当斯(Bronson Adams)饰演。性情顽固、高深莫测、头发蓬乱的希利才是主人公，艾伦·瑞克曼(Alan Rickman)把他塑造成一个可爱的犹太男孩，从新泽西养鸡场游荡到格林威治东村尚未中产阶级化之前污秽的街头。
In the wake of a divorce and a bankruptcy (his second), Hilly buys a Bowery dive (with money borrowed from his mother, played by Estelle Harris) and names it for the music he has a hunch will be the next big thing: country, bluegrass and blues. Though that intuition doesn’t pan out, his nose for talent — or at least his timing — proves formidable. Scruffy, skinny guys shuffle in for auditions with their instrument cases and turn out to be future legends.
离婚和第二次破产之后，希利从母亲（艾斯泰拉·哈里斯[Estelle Harris]饰）那里借钱，买下鲍威里街上的一个酒吧，他用自己觉得能流行起来的音乐给它命名：乡村(country)、蓝草(bluegrass)和布鲁斯(blues)。尽管这个最初的直觉没有实现，但他发掘新星的本领（至少是时机）被证明的确不凡。骨瘦如柴、邋里邋遢的家伙们拎着琴箱，拖着脚步走进来试唱，最终成为未来的传奇。
Hilly’s lax approach to finance and hygiene provides what humor and drama “CBGB” can manage. He alienates his daughter Lisa (Ashley Greene), who works as the club’s bookkeeper; his old pal Merv Ferguson (Donal Logue), who keeps the place running; and Taxi (Richard de Klerk), the long-suffering sound engineer. They all forgive him of course, and tolerate his dog, Jonathan, whose frequent deposits on the club floor are a running gag, as are the antics of the club’s human mascot, an addict known as Idaho (Freddy Rodriguez).
希利不擅理财，卫生状况不佳，这成了《CBGB》勉强的幽默感与戏剧性来源。他疏远担任俱乐部会计的女儿丽莎（阿什莉·格林尼[Ashley Greene]饰）、运营俱乐部的老伙伴默夫·弗格森（Merv Ferguson，多纳尔·罗格[Donal Logue]饰演）和饱受痛苦的音响工程师“出租车”（Taxi，理查德·德·克拉克[Richard de Klerk]饰）。当然他们都包容了他，也容忍了他的狗约拿森。它经常在俱乐部里拉屎，成了片中经常开的玩笑；另外还有一个叫“爱达荷”（弗莱迪·罗德里格兹[Freddy Rodriguez]饰演）的瘾君子，被视为俱乐部的吉祥物，他的奇怪举止也是片中一大笑点。
There is no story to speak of. Just a series of anecdotes that gain very little when acted out on screen. Commentary on the meaning of punk is provided by John Holmstrom (Josh Zuckerman) and Legs McNeil (Peter Vack), founders of the seminal fanzine Punk, and Mary Harron (Ahna O’Reilly), a frequent contributor and a CBGB regular. And also, come to think of it, a future filmmaker (director of “I Shot Andy Warhol,” “American Psycho,” “The Notorious Bettie Page” and others) whose version of the CBGB story would no doubt have been far more insightful and interesting than this one.
此外就没什么故事情节值得一说，只有一系列趣闻轶事，搬上屏幕的效果也不怎么样。约翰·霍尔姆斯托姆（John Holmstrom，乔希·扎克曼[Josh Zuckerman]）和莱格斯·麦克尼尔（Legs McNeil，彼得·瓦克[Peter Vack]饰演）创立了活跃的歌迷杂志《朋克》；玛丽·哈伦（Mary Harron，安娜·奥雷利[Ahna O’Reilly]饰演）是杂志的固定撰稿人，也是CBGB的常客，片中朋克的意义由他们负责评价。此外，想想看，玛丽·哈伦后来成了《我枪杀了安迪·沃霍尔》(I Shot Andy Warhol)、《美国精神病人》(American Psycho)、《大名鼎鼎的贝蒂·佩吉》(The Notorious Bettie Page)这些影片的导演，如果由她来拍CBGB的故事，多半会比这部片子更加发人深省，也更有趣吧。