BEIJING —On a bone-chilling night in the Chinese capital, a giant Communist red star chandelier glistened amid the galaxy of ceiling lights as thousands of people filed into the main auditorium of the Great Hall of the People. But this was not your typical gathering in the colossal building on the western edge of Tiananmen Square. There were no solemn-faced bureaucrats in dark suits, no reports on economic growth targets to be delivered.
北京——一个寒冷刺骨的晚上，数千人涌入中国首都人民大会堂的主会堂，天花板上代表共产党的巨大红星吊灯在一圈圈灯饰中闪闪发亮。但当晚在这个位于天安门广场西侧的巨大建筑中举行的活动并不是那种典型活动。没有身穿深色套装、表情严肃的官员，没有人宣读有关经济增长目标的报告。
Instead, for more than two hours, China’s main legislative chamber reverberated on Saturday with the sounds of violins, electric bass, French horns and drums for a rare event: a joint concert by a group of the country’s leading classical and popular musicians.
在周六晚间两个多小时的时间里，中国这座主要的立法会议厅回响着小提琴、电贝斯、圆号和鼓的声音，进行了一场罕见的活动：中国著名的古典音乐家和流行音乐家联合举办的音乐会。
“There is sort of an invisible rule in China that rock musicians cannot perform in big concert halls or opera houses,” said Tan Dun, the Oscar-winning composer of the score for “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon” and de facto star of the concert. For the performance, Mr. Tan, 58, wrote, rearranged and conducted symphonic accompaniments to songs by three top headliners: the punk band Reflector, the Mongolian folk-rock group Hanggai and the folk singer-songwriter Song Dongye.
“在中国有一种不成文的规定，摇滚音乐人不能在大的音乐厅或歌剧院表演，”凭借《卧虎藏龙》的配乐获得奥斯卡最佳原创音乐奖的谭盾说。他是这场音乐会真正的明星。为了这次演出，58岁的谭盾为三个著名团队的曲目创作或重新编排了交响乐伴奏，并担任指挥。演出者包括朋克乐队反光镜、蒙古族民谣摇滚乐队杭盖，以及民谣歌手兼创作人宋冬野。
“As a classical musician, as a conductor and as a Chinese or world music writer, I listen to rock ’n’ roll all the time, and I listen to jazz all the time,” Mr. Tan added. “But why can’t young people and their music be in opera houses or concert halls? It’s sinful. That’s why I thought we have to break the law.”
“作为一名古典音乐家、指挥、中国或世界音乐作曲家，我一直在听摇滚乐和爵士乐，”谭盾还表示。“但为什么年轻人和他们的音乐不能出现在歌剧院或音乐厅里呢？这不对。所以我觉得我们需要打破这种惯例。”
Although not strictly illegal, and perhaps even old hat to Westerners, the concert represented, if not the first, then certainly the most mainstream stage for the featured musicians. They are accustomed to playing in intimate spaces and at music festivals, making the choice of venue — China’s equivalent of the floor of the United States Senate — all the more incongruous in its buttoned-up formality.
虽然这种做法在严格意义上并没有违反规则，对于西方人来说甚至已经不是什么新鲜事，但本次音乐会就算不是这些音乐人第一次登上主流舞台，也绝对是他们登上的最重要的主流舞台。他们习惯的是在小场地及音乐节上表演，使得这次演出场地的选择——相当于中国的参议院会场——显得与其严肃庄重的风格更加格格不入。
Concertgoers sat in burgundy leather seats at narrow wooden desks as they watched the rock musicians — Hanggai in traditional Mongolian dress, one member of Reflector sporting a neon-colored sweatband — perform while accompanied by the tuxedoed ranks of the China National Symphony Orchestra, led by Mr. Tan. Many cheered when they heard Song Dongye break into “Ms. Dong,” a hit love ballad.
观众们坐在狭窄木桌后的酒红色皮革座椅上观看这些摇滚音乐人表演。杭盖乐队身穿蒙古传统服饰的杭盖乐队，反光镜乐队的一名成员戴着霓虹色的防汗带，中国国家交响乐团的演奏者则身穿礼服在谭盾的指挥下为他们伴奏。当宋冬野突然唱起热门情歌《董小姐》时，很多观众欢呼起来。
But on a program spotlighting some of China’s top independent musicians, the edgiest sounds came not from the stars but from the orchestra, which also played several compositions by Mr. Tan. A high point was “Passacaglia: The Secret of Wind and Birds,” billed as “an interactive symphony.” The orchestra members at one point waved mobile phones with lighted-up screens.
不过，在这场突显中国顶级独立音乐人的表演中，最创新的声音不是来自这些明星，而是来自中国国家交响乐团。他们还演奏了谭盾的几首作品。一个亮点是被称为“交互式交响乐”的曲子《帕萨卡里亚：风与鸟的密语》。乐团成员还一度挥舞着点亮屏幕的手机。
Over all, the program was relatively subdued, which the concert organizers said was in part because of the sensitivity of the setting.
总的来说，这场表演较为克制。音乐会组织方表示，部分原因是演出场地比较敏感。
“We wanted to do something very different, and we thought the Great Hall of the People would be a symbolic venue,” said Zeng Yu, co-founder of Pilot Music, the Beijing-based rock label that helped organize the event, which was sponsored by Red Bull. “But the Great Hall’s approval process for program content is stricter compared with other venues, so when we selected the program we chose songs that were calmer, less noisy.”
“我们想做一些与众不同的事情，我们觉得人民大会堂是一个具有象征性的场所，”北京摇滚音乐公司飞行者唱片的联合创始人曾宇说。“但与其他场地相比，人民大会堂对节目内容的审批过程要严格一些，所以我们在选择曲目的时候选了一些比较安静，没有那么吵的作品。”他所在的公司帮助组织了这场由红牛赞助的音乐会。
Mr. Zeng said he hoped to work on other such events in the future.
曾宇表示，他希望未来能举办其他的类似的活动。
For many of the rock musicians, the best part of the concert was the opportunity to work with Mr. Tan, one of China’s most recognizable names in the global music industry. Next month, the New York Philharmonic will perform the New York premiere of his “Nu Shu: The Secret Songs of Women” as part of its fifth annual Chinese New Year concert.
对于很多摇滚音乐人来说，这场音乐会最棒的部分在于能与谭盾进行合作。谭盾是全球音乐行业中最知名的中国音乐人。下个月，纽约爱乐乐团(New York Philharmonic)将在第五届春节音乐会上表演谭盾的作品《女书》(Nu Shu: The Secret Songs of Women)。这将是《女书》在纽约的首演。
“Just to be able to hang out with such a freaking awesome musician like Tan Dun, it doesn’t matter what we are performing, this is the coolest experience,” said Tian Jianhua, the bass player for Reflector, using more explicit language in Chinese. “Rock ’n’ roll has grown a lot in China, but there still aren’t that many opportunities for people to be exposed to new music. Tan Dun has the reputation of getting people to pay attention.”
“能与谭盾这么牛＊的音乐人合作，表演什么不重要，这是最酷的经历，”反光镜乐队贝斯手田健华说。“摇滚在中国有了很大的发展，但人们接触新音乐的机会仍然不多。谭盾很有名，能引起人们的关注。”
At a rehearsal the day before the concert, Mr. Tan, clad in a black polo shirt with an upturned collar and rockeresque black leather pants, was brimming with energy as he led the musicians through a run-through. Later, during a break, he reflected on the significance of bringing classical and rock music together.
演出前一天进行彩排时，谭盾身穿竖起领子的黑色马球衫和摇滚标配——黑色皮裤。他带领音乐人排练时充满活力。后来休息期间，他思考了将古典音乐与摇滚乐融合在一起的意义。
“Even at the beginning of the 20th century, China had nothing, no classical music,” he said. “Then we took the second step, which was following and introducing the music. Now, we are on the third step: We are creating. This concert is about building our accent, our voice in the big family of world music.”
“20世纪初，中国甚至什么都还没有，没有古典音乐，”他说。“后来我们走到了第二步，仿效并引入这种音乐。现在，我们已经到了第三步，我们在进行创作。做这场音乐会就是为了在世界音乐的大家庭中形成自己的特色，自己的声音。”