SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Saturday that a diplomat in its London embassy who recently defected to South Korea had fled rather than face punishment for various crimes, calling him “human scum.”
韩国首尔——朝鲜在上周六表示，该国最近叛逃至韩国的一名驻伦敦大使馆外交官，是因不愿为自己犯下的多项罪行接受惩罚而逃跑，称他为“人渣”。
The statement, from the official Korean Central News Agency, was North Korea’s first reaction to the defection of Thae Yong-ho, its most senior official to defect in almost two decades. The defection of Mr. Thae, who was the No. 2 diplomat in the embassy, was announced by South Korea on Wednesday.
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)发布的这份声明，是朝鲜首次对泰勇浩(Thae Yong-ho)的叛逃做出反应。后者是过去近20年里，朝鲜叛逃者中级别最高的官员。上周三，韩国宣布了这名驻伦敦大使馆第二高官叛逃的消息。
The North Korean statement said Mr. Thae, whom it did not identify by name, had been ordered in June to return from Britain to Pyongyang, the North’s capital, because he had embezzled state funds, sold official secrets and sexually assaulted a minor. The statement offered no evidence for those accusations.
朝鲜在声明中称，泰勇浩——声明中没有明示他的姓名——在今年6月被要求从英国返回朝鲜首都平壤，因为他侵吞了国家资金，出卖官方机密，还性侵了一名未成年人。声明中没有提供能证明这些指控的证据。
Rather than return home, the statement said, Mr. Thae “proved himself to be human scum who betrayed the fatherland” by fleeing. It said that North Korea had informed the British government of the accusations against Mr. Thae and asked that he be handed over to North Korean officials, but that London had instead created an “indelible stain” in relations between the countries by letting him go to South Korea, to be used in a “smear campaign” against the North.
声明称，泰勇浩没有返回祖国，而是选择了逃跑，“由此证明他是个背叛祖国的人渣”。文中还表示，朝鲜已经向英国政府通报了对泰勇浩的指控，要求对方将他移交给朝鲜官员，但伦敦反而让他逃到韩国，将在一场针对朝鲜的“抹黑运动”中被利用，由此给朝英关系留下“难以去除的污点”。
South Korea has not explained how or when Mr. Thae made his way to the country with his wife and children, and the North Korean statement suggested that he had been in British custody beforehand. There was no immediate response from the British or South Korean government.
韩国没有解释泰勇浩是在何时、以什么方式与他的妻子和儿女前往韩国的。朝鲜的声明显示，在此之前，他一直被英国拘押。英国和韩国政府没有立即对朝鲜的声明做出回应。
North Korea has typically referred to its defectors as “scum” or “traitors,” often accusing South Korea’s intelligence agency of kidnapping them. On Friday, Jeong Joon-hee, a South Korean government spokesman, said he expected the North to react similarly to Mr. Thae’s defection. Doing otherwise “would be tantamount to admitting to the inferiority of its own regime,” he said.
朝鲜一贯将其叛逃者称为“人渣”或“叛徒”，并常指责韩国的情报机构绑架他们。周五，韩国政府发言人郑俊熙(Jeong Joon-hee)表示，他料到朝鲜会对泰勇浩的叛逃做出类似的反应，否则就“无异于承认自己的政权的卑劣，”他说。
The South has said that Mr. Thae defected out of disillusionment with the North Korean government, and that his decision to flee was a sign that such sentiments were spreading among the North Korean elite.
韩国表示，泰勇浩是因为认清了朝鲜政府的真面目而叛逃，他的叛逃释放出这样一个信号：此类情绪正在朝鲜权贵阶层中蔓延。