SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea launched an intermediate-range ballistic missile off its east coast on Wednesday, but the test ended in a failure, the South Korean military said. It was the fifth consecutive such failure in the North’s attempt to demonstrate a capacity to launch a ballistic missile that would extend its striking range.
韩国首尔——韩国军方于本周三表示，朝鲜在其东海岸发射了一枚远程弹道导弹，但测试以失败告终。朝鲜企图证明自己拥有发射弹道导弹的能力，从而扩大其打击范围，这是它连续第五次失败。
The Musudan missile was launched from a site near Wonsan, a port city east of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, at 5:58 a.m. Wednesday, the South’s Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement.
韩国军方参谋长联席会议办公室(Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff)在一份声明中说，这枚“舞水端”导弹的发射地点是在朝鲜首都平壤以东的港口城市元山附近，发射时间是上午5时58分。
It said the South Korean military considered the test to have been a failure, but it provided no further details.
声明中说，韩国军方认为试验已经失败，但没有进一步提供细节。
At 8:05 a.m., North Korea launched another Musudan, the office said, without confirming whether that test also failed.
该办公室说，上午8时05分，朝鲜发射了另一枚“舞水端”导弹，但没有确认这次试射是否也已失败。
North Korea has test-fired the Musudan six times since mid-April. But at least five of those tests have failed, with some of the projectiles crashing into the sea or exploding in midair shortly after liftoff, according to American and South Korean officials.
自四月中旬以来，朝鲜已经进行了六次“舞水端”试射。但据美国和韩国官员说，至少五次测试已经失败，一些导弹升空后不久坠入海中，另一些在半空中爆炸。
North Korea’s missiles have seldom worked on the first try, but a string of five successive failures is unusual even by the North’s checkered standards. Analysts have attributed the failures to the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un. In his rush to demonstrate an ability to strike American military bases in Guam with nuclear and chemical weapons, Mr. Kim was giving his engineers hardly enough time to fix the problems before testing the Musudan again, the analysts said.
朝鲜的导弹很少第一次尝试即成功，但即便以朝鲜的标准来看，连续五次失败也很不寻常。分析人士把失败归咎于朝鲜领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，认为他急于证明用核武器和化学武器打击关岛美国军事基地的能力，没有为工程师提供足够的时间来修复舞水端的问题，就开始进行下一次测试。
The North has successfully tested its short-range Scud and midrange Rodong missiles. The Rodong can reach all of South Korea and most of Japan. The Musudan — a road-mobile missile with a range of more than 2,000 miles, long enough to reach Guam — was first tested on April 15.
朝鲜已经成功测试了“飞毛腿”(Scud)短程导弹和“芦洞”(Rodong)中程导弹。“芦洞”的射程可以覆盖韩国和日本的大多数地方。而“舞水端”这种公路机动型导弹的射程超过2000英里，足以抵达关岛，朝鲜第一次测试它是在4月15日。
The failed Musudan tests followed Mr. Kim’s repeated calls to his military to conduct more nuclear and missile tests despite international sanctions. The Musudan, first unveiled during a military parade in Pyongyang in 2010, is a modified version of a submarine-launched missile from the Soviet military and was designed to carry nuclear warheads, South Korean officials said.
“舞水端”这次试射失败之前，金正恩对国际制裁置之不理，仍再三呼吁军队进行更多的核试验和导弹试验。韩国官员说，在2010年平壤阅兵上首次亮相的“舞水端”，是苏联潜射导弹的改良版，可以携带核弹头。
North Korea has repeatedly threatened nuclear strikes against the United States, claiming that it has built nuclear weapons small enough to be mounted on its various ballistic missiles. It conducted its fourth nuclear test in January and has recently claimed success in a series of missile firings and tests related to nuclear weapons.
朝鲜曾多次威胁要对美国进行核打击，并声称已研制出了足够小型的核武器，可以搭载在该国的各种弹道导弹上。朝鲜今年一月进行了第四次核试验，最近该国声称在一系列导弹发射以及核武器相关试验中获得了成功。
But the country has never carried out a successful test flight of a long-range missile.
但朝鲜的远程导弹试射一直不成功。