SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Thursday that it had successfully tested a new rocket engine that would significantly bolster its missile capabilities, and South Korea called on its people to heighten vigilance against possible terrorist attacks by the North.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周四表示，该国成功测试了一款新型火箭发动机，可以大幅增强其导弹的性能。韩国呼吁公众提高警惕，因为朝鲜有可能发动恐怖袭击。
The North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, recently watched as military engineers conducted a ground test of the design, a solid-fuel rocket engine, the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported.
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社报道，近日在该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的观看下，军方工程师对新设计的固体燃料火箭发动机进行了地面试验。
Except for some of its short-range missiles and rockets, most of the North’s missiles, including the long-range booster rocket used to launch a satellite into orbit last month, are believed to rely on liquid fuel. The use of solid fuel greatly shortens the time needed to prepare the launch of a missile as well as increases the ground mobility of the missile system, which would reduce the South’s ability to detect signs of a pending attack, South Korean defense officials said.
除了一些短程导弹和火箭之外，朝鲜的大多数导弹，包括上个月发射的用来把卫星送入轨道的远程助推火箭，据信都使用了液体燃料。韩国国防部官员说，使用固体燃料可以大大缩短发射的准备时间，提高导弹系统的地面移动能力，这将削弱韩国及早发现对方攻击迹象的能力。
“The North’s switching to solid rocket fuel means that it wants to have a capability to launch a missile anytime it wants,” said Moon Sang-gyun, a spokesman for the South’s Defense Ministry, calling the development “grave.”
“朝鲜改用固体火箭燃料，意味着它取得了随时发射导弹的能力，”韩国国防部发言人文相均(Moon Sang-gyun)说。他称此事“十分严重”。
“But we have anticipated this,” he said, “and we have been making necessary preparations.”
“但我们预计到了这一点，”他说，“我们一直在做必要的准备。”
North Korea’s claim to have manufactured a solid-fuel engine was the latest in a series of assertions and threats it has made about its missile and nuclear weapons capabilities in recent weeks.
最近几周，朝鲜发出了一系列涉及其导弹和核武器能力的宣告和威胁。宣称造出固体燃料发动机的做法，是其中最新的一起。
It has said that it has “standardized” miniaturized nuclear warheads to be fitted on its missiles. It has also suggested that it has mastered “re-entry” technology needed for a warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile to survive crashing through the Earth’s atmosphere toward its target.
朝鲜表示，它已经对小型化核弹头进行了“标准化”，现在可以将它安装在本国的导弹上。该国还表示已经掌握了“再进入”技术，这是洲际弹道导弹穿过地球大气层打击目标时所需的一种技术。
The North has also threatened to conduct another nuclear test and to test ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. On Wednesday, it cautioned that its rockets were ready to reduce the Chongwadae, the office of President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, to “a sea in flames and ashes.”
朝鲜还威胁要再进行一次核试验，以测试可携带核弹头的弹道导弹。该国本周三发出警告，称该国火箭已经做好准备，可以把韩国总统朴槿惠的办公室青瓦台变成“火海和灰烬”。
What the North called a “crucial report” on Wednesday also said that its “units behind enemy lines to be deployed in the operational theater of the southern part of Korea are fully ready to start a storm operation, lightning operation to conquer the Chongwadae and other major targets.”
本周三，朝鲜在这份“关键报道”中还表示，它“部署在南朝鲜战区的敌后战线，已经完全做好了展开一场风暴行动的准备，可以对青瓦台等主要目标发起快速打击”。
South Korea interpreted the warning as a threat of terrorist attacks.
韩国把该警告视为恐怖袭击威胁。
“President Park called for a strengthened vigilance across the country and asked the people to be especially vigilant for possible emergencies,” the chief presidential press secretary, Kim Sung-woo, said on Thursday.
“朴总统呼吁在全国范围内加强警戒，呼吁大家尤其警惕可能发生的紧急事件，”总统首席新闻秘书金盛宇(Kim Sung-woo)周四表示。
The South’s military said that it had heightened security along the border with North Korea since a January nuclear test by the North. The national police ordered its officers to increase their preparedness, saying that public fear of possible terrorist attacks had increased after the North’s warnings and the bombings in Brussels this week.
韩国军方说，自朝鲜1月份进行核试验以来，他们已经增强了在朝鲜边境的安全措施。该国警方命令警员加强戒备，并称在朝鲜发出警告，以及本周布鲁塞尔发生爆炸案之后，公众越发害怕本国可能会遭受恐怖袭击。
Ms. Park’s cautionary statement came on the same day that South Korean politicians started registering their candidacies for parliamentary elections slated for April 13.
韩国定于4月13日进行议会选举。朴槿惠发出警戒性声明的这一天，也是政界人士登记参选的起始日。