HONG KONG — North Korea said Wednesday that it would reopen the shuttered Kaesong industrial complex, a rare symbol of cooperation with South Korea whose operations were shut down by the North four months ago amid mounting tensions between the sworn enemies.
香港——朝鲜周三宣布，将重启已关闭的开城(Kaesong)工业园，该工业园是朝鲜与韩国合作的罕见象征，四个月前，因这两个不共戴天的仇敌之间紧张关系不断升级，朝鲜关闭了这个工业园。
The North Korean government also proposed new talks with the South, to start next week, on the future of the complex, whose 53,000 North Korean workers were employed by South Korean firms. Pyongyang also pledged to guarantee the safety of South Korean managers who run the complex.
朝鲜政府还提出要就开城工业园的前途与韩国开展谈判，将于下周开始，开城工业园中有5.3万朝鲜工人受雇于韩国公司。平壤方面还许诺保障管理该工业园的韩国经理的安全。
The announcement, released in a statement carried by the KCNA news agency in North Korea, signaled a thaw in relations between the two countries, which hit a low point over the winter when North Korea’s detonation of a nuclear device prompted tough new sanctions by the United Nations against Pyongyang.
这一消息来自朝鲜中央通讯社(KCNA)发布的一项声明，表明朝韩两国关系转暖。两国关系在上个冬季降到最低点，原因是朝鲜进行核试验后，引发了联合国对平壤实施严厉的新制裁。
Since that nuclear test, North Korea’s main ally and benefactor, China, has put increasing pressure on Pyongyang to modify its behavior and return to talks about the future of its nuclear program. In addition to the costly U.N. sanctions, the North has also lost badly needed hard currency earned by the tens of thousands of North Korean workers at the Kaesong complex.
那次核试验之后，朝鲜的主要盟友和支持者中国也开始不断给平壤施加压力，要求其改变行为，重返关于核项目未来的谈判桌上。除了联合国制裁带来的损失之外，朝鲜还失去了它迫切需要的、由几万朝鲜工人在开城工业园挣来的硬通货。
South Korean officials did not immediately respond to Pyongyang’s overture and its call for talks.
韩国官员没有立即对平壤的姿态以及谈判提议作出回应。
The complex, where companies manufactured consumer goods using capital and technology provided by the South and a work force mainly from the North, has been closed since April 8. The two countries held talks last month in an effort to reopen the plant. A major issue in the talks had been the South’s demand that the North take responsibility for the damage caused by the abrupt shutdown of the complex’s factories. The North blamed the shutdown on the South, saying that the South’s confrontational attitude has kept the complex from reopening.
开城工业园自4月8日以来一直处于关闭状态，那之前这里的公司利用韩国提供的资金和技术、以及主要来自朝鲜的劳动力制造消费产品。上月，朝韩两国举行过谈判，试图重启工业园。谈判中遇到的一个主要问题是，韩国要求朝鲜为突然关闭工业园给工厂带来的损失负责。而朝鲜则将关停工业园的责任推给韩国，称韩国的敌对态度使工业园一直未能重启。
In withdrawing its workers from the complex in April, North Korea blamed tensions it said were caused by joint American-South Korean military exercises. The South later withdrew its own citizens, most of them factory managers, when the stalemate continued.
4月份朝鲜撤出该工业园内的工人时，曾将这么做的原因归咎于美国和韩国联合军事演习导致的紧张气氛。后来由于双方僵局的继续，韩国也撤出了其中的韩国公民，他们大多是工厂经理。
North Korea’s announcement of the reopening of Kaesong came shortly after the South said it has authorized the payment of $251 million to the South Korean companies whose operations at Kaesong were disrupted by the shutdown. The payouts, in the form of insurance payments, will go not only to companies operating in the complex but also to firms that provided services to them and were hurt by the closure.
在朝鲜宣布重启开城工业园之前不久，韩国称已批准给那些因开城工业园关闭而中断运营的韩国公司支付2.51亿美元（约合15.4亿元人民币）的付款。这笔以保险赔偿的形式支付的钱，不仅给开城工业园内运营的公司，也给那些为园内公司提供服务、因工业园关闭而受到影响的公司。
The payments may have helped ease the concerns of South Korean businesses who worry about the long-term viability of the complex given the North’s provocative and unpredictable behavior under its new leader, Kim Jong-un, whose government issued threats to use its nuclear weapons against the United States at the height of the tensions. In recent months, however, the North has adopted a more conciliatory tone, with its high-level officials meeting with Chinese leaders, who have then publicly urged the North to curtail its nuclear program.
这笔付款或许会有助于减轻韩国公司对工业园前景的担忧，由于朝鲜在新领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)执政后表现出的挑衅行为和不可预测性，工业园的长期可行性受到影响。朝鲜在局势最紧张的时候，曾发出要对美国使用核武器的威胁。但在最近几个月里，朝鲜采取了更加温和的语调，其高层官员会晤了中国领导人，后者随之公开敦促朝鲜停止其核项目。
In its statement about the reopening of the complex, North Korea described its overture in typically florid fashion as “bold and magnanimous,” adding that the move was “prompted by its desire to bring about a new phase of reconciliation, cooperation, peace, reunification and prosperity by normalizing operation in the Kaesong zone.”
朝鲜在关于重启开城工业园的声明中，用其一贯富丽堂皇的语言把自己的姿态描述为是“大胆而宽宏大量的”，并补充称，这一做法“是因为朝鲜希望能通过恢复开城工业区的正常运营，带来一个和解、合作、和平统一以及繁荣的新阶段”。
The Kaesong complex was the last of a group of cross-border projects set up during an earlier period of rapprochement, which were then closed one by one as relations soured. It opened in 2004 and produced $470 million worth of goods last year.
开城工业园是在两国上一次和解期间启动的几个跨境项目中仅存的一个，这些项目随着两国关系再度紧张而一个接一个地被停掉。开城工业园2004年开始运营，去年制造的产品总值为4.7亿美元。