Stung by onerous new sanctions from the United Nations Security Council, North Korea on Monday threatened retaliation “thousands of times” and hinted at a possible attack on the United States.
受联合国安理会新制裁的刺激，朝鲜周一威胁要进行“千百倍”的报复，并暗示可能会对美国发动攻击。
In its first major response to the sanctions drafted by the United States and adopted Saturday, North Korea said it would never relinquish its missile and nuclear arsenals and called the penalties a panicky U.S.-led response to its growing military might.
朝鲜表示自己永远不会放弃导弹和核武器，并称制裁是惊慌失措的美国主导的、针对其日渐增强的军事实力做出的反应。这是朝鲜首次对美国起草并于周六正式通过的制裁做出的主要回应。
The North Korean response, in statements from its official news agency, foreign minister and U.N. mission, suggested that the country’s leader, Kim Jong Un, was doubling down on his goal of developing a nuclear-armed missile that could hit the continental United States.
朝鲜通过官方通讯社、外相和驻联合国代表团发表声明的方式做出的回应表明，该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)对研制能袭击美国本土的核导弹的目标寄予厚望。
The warnings began with a statement from North Korea’s official news agency, threatening to make the United States “pay the price for its crime thousands of times,” referring to the new sanctions.
朝鲜的警告始于该国官方通讯社发表的一份声明。该声明威胁要“千百倍地清算美国犯下可恶犯罪的代价”。这里指的是新的制裁。
“There is no bigger mistake than the United States believing that its land is safe across the ocean,” the news agency said.
“若他们指望大洋彼岸的其本土会安然无事，那就是大错特错，”该通讯社说。
North Korea’s foreign minister, Ri Yong-ho, echoed the hostility later in a statement released at an annual meeting of foreign ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Manila that also was attended by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
随后，朝鲜外相李勇浩(Ri Yong-ho)在东南亚国家联盟(Association of Southeast Asian Nations)于马尼拉举行的年度外长会议上发表声明，重申了敌对态度。美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)也出席了该会议。
Ri described North Korea’s missiles and nuclear weapons as defensive measures against what he called the threat of annihilation by the United States.
李勇浩称朝鲜的导弹和核武器是针对他所谓的被美国毁灭威胁的防御措施。
The country’s U.N. mission also issued a lengthy statement denouncing the sanctions, which were meant to dissuade North Korea from pressing ahead with its missile and nuclear weapons programs.
朝鲜驻联合国代表团也发表了一份冗长的声明，谴责意在说服朝鲜放弃推进导弹和核武器计划的新制裁。
The statement called the sanctions, which include prohibitions on North Korean exports of coal, iron and seafood, “a flagrant infringement upon its sovereignty.”
声明称制裁“明目张胆地侵犯朝鲜主权”。此次制裁包括禁止朝鲜出口煤炭、钢材和海鲜。
The response came two days after the Security Council approved the measures in a 15-0 vote that basically left Kim bereft of any powerful supporter on the issue, including China, which helped the United States draft the new penalties.
在朝鲜作出回应的两天前，安理会以15票赞成、0票反对的投票结果批准了制裁措施。这次投票基本上导致金正恩在这个问题上完全失去了有影响力的支持者，包括中国。中国参与了美国的制裁措施起草工作。
If enforced, the measures could lop an estimated $1 billion annually off North Korea’s meager export revenue of $3 billion.
如果得到实施，相关措施预计会让朝鲜每年本就微薄的30亿美元出口收入（约合200亿元人民币）减少10亿美元。
The resolution was a direct response to North Korea’s successful tests last month of two intercontinental ballistic missiles that for the first time demonstrated an ability to reach the U.S. mainland.
此次决议是对朝鲜上月成功试射两枚洲际弹道导弹的直接回应。这两枚导弹首次表现出了到达美国本土的能力。
The sanctions are the toughest of the seven Security Council resolutions adopted since 2006 aimed at curbing North Korea’s nuclear militarization.
这次制裁是自2006年以来通过的七次旨在遏止朝鲜核军事化的安理会决议中最严厉的一次。