WASHINGTON — North Korea fired an intercontinental ballistic missile on Tuesday that flew both higher and longer than previous such launches, a bold act of defiance against President Trump after he put the country back on a list of state sponsors of terrorism.
华盛顿——朝鲜周二发射了一枚洲际弹道导弹，相比此前的发射，这枚导弹飞行高度更高，射程也更远，这是特朗普总统将该国重新列为支持恐怖主义国家后，一个对特朗普大胆的挑衅之举。
Trump’s reaction to the launch was more muted than in the past, when he lobbed insults at the North’s leader, Kim Jong Un and threatened “fire and fury” that would “totally destroy” the North.
特朗普对此事的反应比过去温和。他曾辱骂朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)，并威胁要向朝鲜发射会将其“彻底摧毁”的“炮火与怒火”。
“We will take care of it,” he told reporters in Washington. “It is a situation that we will handle.”
“我们会处理此事，”他在华盛顿对记者说。“我们会处理这个情况。”
The missile took off from around Pyongsong, a town northeast of Pyongyang, the capital, at 3:17 a.m., and it flew east for about 53 minutes before landing off the north of Honshu, Japan’s largest island, nearly 600 miles from the launch site.
凌晨3点17分，导弹从平壤东北部的城市平城附近升空，向东飞行大约53分钟后，在近600英里（约合970公里）外的日本最大岛屿本州岛北部附近坠落。
The missile was fired high into the air, reaching a maximum altitude of around 2,800 miles, in an arc similar to the North’s two previous intercontinental ballistic missiles, or ICBMs, which were launched in July.
导弹是高角度发射升空的，最大高度约为2800英里（约合4500公里），弧度与朝鲜在7月发射的两枚洲际弹道导弹类似。
The distance traveled appeared to be significantly greater than that of the two previous ICBMs, which flew for 37 minutes on July 4 and for 47 minutes on July 28.
这一次的飞行距离似乎明显超过了前两枚ICBM。7月4日发射的那枚飞行了37分钟，7月28日发射的另一枚飞行了47分钟。
David Wright, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said the missile performed better than the two fired in July, with a potential range of more than 8,000 miles, able to reach Washington or any other part of the continental United States.
忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)的高级科学家戴维·赖特(David Wright)说，这枚导弹的表现比7月发射的那两枚要好，潜在射程超过8000英里（约合12900公里），能够抵达华盛顿或美国本土的其他任何地方。
“It’s pretty impressive,” Wright said of the test flight. “This is building on what they’ve done before. It’s muscle-flexing to show the U.S. that they’re going to continue to make progress.”
“给人的印象非常深刻，”赖特评价这次试验。“这是在他们之前的成果基础上发展出来的。这是在向美国炫耀武力，表示他们会继续取得进展。”
However, Wright noted that in an effort to increase the vehicle’s range, the North Koreans might have fitted it with a mock payload that weighed little or next to nothing. So the distance traveled, while impressive, does not necessarily translate into a working intercontinental ballistic missile, much less one that could deliver a thermonuclear warhead.
然而，赖特指出，为了增加导弹的射程，朝鲜可能在导弹上面搭载了重量微乎其微的仿制弹头。因此，虽然给人留下深刻印象，但这个飞行距离不一定能在正常工作的洲际弹道导弹上实现，更别说可能搭载热核弹头的洲际弹道导弹了。
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan each called meetings of their national security councils to discuss the North’s latest provocation.
韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)各自召开了国家安全委员会会议，讨论朝鲜的最新挑衅。
Six minutes after the launch, South Korea conducted its own missile test off its east coast, demonstrating its ability to strike North Korean missile launching sites, the South’s military said in a statement.
韩国军方在一份声明中说，朝鲜的导弹发射六分钟后，韩国在其东海岸附近进行了自己的导弹试验，显示其有能力打击朝鲜的导弹发射场。