SEOUL, South Korea — Two days of marathon talks between North Korea and South Korea broke down without agreement Saturday, as negotiators failed to agree on how to bring about a thaw in their long-strained relations.
韩国首尔——周六，朝韩两国之间持续了两天的马拉松式会谈破裂，双方没有达成协议，为缓和其长期紧张的关系找到共识。
At the talks, held in the North Korean border town of Kaesong, South Korea called on the North to help thousands of aging Korean family members separated by the Korean War six decades ago learn of one another’s whereabouts, exchange letters and be reunited temporarily, said Hwang Boo-gi, the chief South Korean negotiator.
韩国首席谈判代表黄富起(Hwang Boo-gi)说，会谈在朝鲜边境小镇开城举行；六十年前的朝鲜战争导致成千上万的家庭离散，会谈中韩国呼吁朝鲜帮助这些已经年迈的家属了解彼此的下落、互通信件以及暂时团聚。
But delegates from North Korea insisted that it would consider those requests only if the South resumed sending tourists to the Diamond Mountain resort in the North, Mr. Hwang told South Korean reporters in Kaesong.
但黄富起在开城跟韩国记者说，朝鲜代表团坚持认为，只有韩国恢复开放游客到朝鲜的度假胜地金刚山，他们才会考虑那些要求。
The joint tourism program had been an important source of cash for the North until it was suspended in 2008 after a South Korean tourist who wandered into a restricted area was shot to death by North Korean soldiers. South Korea has said it would reopen the program only after the North apologized for the killing, agreed to a joint investigation and took steps to prevent similar episodes and guarantee the safety of tourists.
该联合旅游项目一直是朝鲜经济的重要来源，直到2008年，一名韩国游客走进禁区后被朝鲜士兵射杀，该项目随即被暂停。韩国已表示，只有朝方为杀害事件道歉，同意进行联合调查并采取措施防止类似事件发生，保障游客的安全，韩国才会重启此项目。
Both sides failed to narrow their differences in the talks that began on Friday.
双方未能在周五开始的会谈中缓和彼此分歧。
They parted on Saturday, without even agreeing on when to meet again.
周六散会时，他们甚至没有商定何时再次会面。
“The North side focused on resuming the Diamond Mountain tourism and linked it to the reunions of separated family members,” Mr. Hwang said. “Our side maintained that they were separate issues and that it was inappropriate to link them.”
“朝方集中在恢复金刚山旅游项目上，并把这与离散家属的团聚问题挂钩，” 黄富起说。 “我方则认为它们是两件事情，不应该连在一起讨论。”
The collapse of the talks left inter-Korean relations mired in a decades-long standoff.
此次谈判决裂，使朝韩关系继续陷入数十年的僵局中。
The two Koreas appeared headed for an armed clash as recently as August, after the South accused the North of planting land mines that maimed two of its border guards. The North denied the accusations. The sides later agreed to negotiations, and in October, arranged a new round of reunions in which hundreds of war-separated family members were allowed to meet their relatives for the first time in more than six decades.
就在不久前的八月，韩国还指控朝鲜埋下地雷，导致两名边防士兵身受重伤，两国摆出了即将爆发武装冲突的态势。朝鲜否认这一指控。双方后来同意进行谈判，并在10月安排了新一轮的团聚活动，让数百名因战离散的家属六十多年来首次与亲人见面。
South Korea wants such reunions to be held on a regular basis so that separated family members, most of them in their 80s and older, can meet with long-lost relatives before they die.
韩国希望定期举行这样的团聚活动，让离散家属（其中大多数年龄在80岁以上），能在去世之前与失散多年的亲人见面。
Formally, the Koreas remain at war; the Korean War ended in 1953 in a truce, not a peace treaty. Since then, their citizens have not been allowed to exchange letters, phone calls or emails with each other, much less to meet.
朝韩双方在严格意义上仍处于战争状态。朝鲜战争在1953年以一份停战协议告终，而不是和平条约。从那时起，他们的公民就不准互通书信、电话或电邮，更不用说见面。
North Korea blamed the South for the deterioration of the talks, according to the Reuters news agency. The North’s KCNA news agency said the South refused to discuss the resumption of the Diamond Mountain tourism program and stuck to “unfair assertions,” Reuters said.
根据路透社，朝鲜就谈判气氛恶化指责韩国。路透社称朝鲜中央通讯社(KCNA)指韩国拒绝讨论重启金刚山旅游项目，并坚持“不公平主张”。