A special United Nations human rights investigator said Tuesday that diplomats from North Korea, in what he described as an abrupt and “interesting turn of events,” were now prepared to invite him to visit their isolated nuclear-armed country for the first time — but only if a growing effort aimed at prosecuting North Korea’s leader and other officials for crimes against humanity was dropped.
周二，联合国的一名人权状况特别报告员表示，事情突然出现了“有趣的转变”，称来自朝鲜的外交官首次愿意邀请他，访问这个与世隔绝且拥有核武器的国家。但条件是，放弃以反人类罪起诉朝鲜领导人和其他官员的日益加码的努力。
The investigator, Marzuki Darusman, made the disclosure at a news conference after he presented his annual report to the General Assembly’s human rights commission. Mr. Darusman, a member of a panel that produced a devastating report on human rights abuses in North Korea early this year, said the offer for a visit, which would be unprecedented, had been made by four North Korean diplomats who had unexpectedly agreed to meet with him on Monday.
名为马祖基·达鲁斯曼(Marzuki Darusman)的这位报告员，在一场新闻发布会上透露了上述消息。在召开新闻发布会前，达鲁斯曼向联合国大会人权委员会提交了自己的年度报告。今年年初，达鲁斯曼参与的一个委员会就朝鲜侵犯人权的情况，撰写了一份骇人听闻的报告。达鲁斯曼说，邀请是由四名朝鲜外交官发出的，他们出乎意料地同意与他在周一举行会晤。如若成行，此次访问将是史无前例的。
North Korea’s mission to the United Nations did not respond to requests for comment on Mr. Darusman’s assertions. North Korean diplomats have denounced the panel’s report as a collection of fabrications and smears and have refused to meet with Mr. Darusman or any other panel member. The report said the North Korean authorities maintained a murderous police state and a system of gulag-like prison camps that incarcerated more than 100,000 people. It recommended that the Security Council refer North Korea to the International Criminal Court for prosecution.
朝鲜驻联合国代表团没有回应就达鲁斯曼的言论发表评论的请求。此前，朝鲜外交官曾对该委员会报告表示谴责，称其为无稽之谈和诽谤言论，并拒绝与达鲁斯曼或委员会的其他任何成员举行会晤。该报告称，朝鲜当局维持着一个凶残的警察国家，和一个由古拉格式的集中营组成的体系，其中关押着10万多人。报告建议安理会就朝鲜人权问题在国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)提起诉讼。
In recent weeks, however, North Korea’s reclusive government, possibly sensing that a General Assembly resolution urging such a referral would probably pass by a strong majority, has adopted counterstrategies to avoid an acute embarrassment. They include the government’s own human rights report, released last month, which asserted improbably that North Korean citizens enjoy unparalleled freedoms. The North has also shown more eagerness to engage with South Korea and Japan, and last week it unexpectedly released one of three imprisoned Americans.
然而，最近几周，或许是感觉到联大敦促起诉的决议，可能会得到大多数国家的支持而获得通过，与世隔绝的朝鲜政府已经采取了多项对策，从而避免极度难堪的局面。这些对策包括朝鲜政府自己上月发布的人权报告。该报告难以置信地声称，朝鲜公民享有无与伦比的自由。朝鲜也更迫切地表现出，想要与韩国和日本接触的愿望，还在上周出人意料地释放了被其扣押的三名美国人中的一名。
Mr. Darusman, whose annual requests for meetings with North Korean officials have been routinely ignored, said he was surprised the request had been granted. “There has been an interesting turn of events,” he said. “There was discussion about a possible visit, there was a discussion about certain parts of the resolution, so you will be able to make your own conclusions as to how they relate to each other.”
达鲁斯曼每年都会请求与朝鲜官员会面，但朝鲜向来置之不理。他说，朝鲜这次同意了请求让他颇感意外。“形势出现了有趣的转变，”他说。“我们讨论了访问朝鲜的可能性，也讨论了决议的某些部分。这样一来，你就可以自己得出结论，这两件事存在着怎样的关系了。”
Asked to elaborate, he said the North Koreans had requested that two provisions of the General Assembly resolution, which was drafted by Japan and the European Union, be deleted: a recommendation that the International Criminal Court prosecute abuses, and a warning that North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, could be held personally accountable for crimes.
在被要求详细阐述时，达鲁斯曼说，朝鲜要求从日本和欧盟起草的联大决议中，删除两项条款。其中一项是建议在国际刑事法院起诉朝鲜侵犯人权，另一项则是警告，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)本人，可能需要对一些罪行负责。
Efforts to reach Japanese diplomats for comment were not successful. A spokesman for the European Union, while not ruling out any proposals made by North Korea, said the objective of the resolution was “to bring change to the human rights situation in the country, by which we mean real improvements on the ground.”
记者试图联系日本外交官请求置评，但没有成功。虽然没有完全拒绝朝鲜的提议，但是欧盟的一名发言人表示，决议的目的是“为这个国家的人权状况带去改变，也就是说，要真正改善该国的实际情况。”