SEOUL, South Korea — Hours after President Trump canceled a summit with its leader, Kim Jong-un, North Korea said on Friday that it was still willing to give Mr. Trump “time and opportunity” to reconsider his decision, saying that Mr. Kim had held great expectations for the meeting.
韩国首尔——周五，在特朗普总统宣布取消与朝鲜领导人金正恩进行会晤数小时后，朝鲜表示，仍然愿给特朗普“时间和机会”重新考虑他的决定，称金正恩对会晤抱有很大期待。
“The unilateral cancellation of the summit was unexpected and very regrettable,” said Kim Kye-gwan, a vice foreign minister of North Korea, in a statement carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. “But we remain unchanged in our willingness to do everything we can for the peace and stability of the Korean Peninsula and of the humanity, so with a broad and open mind, we are willing to give the United States time and opportunity.”
“突然单方面宣布取消会谈，令我们感到意外，而且非常遗憾，”朝中社引述朝鲜外务省第一副相金桂冠(Kim Kye-gwan)的讲话称。“但朝鲜要为半岛和人类的和平与稳定竭尽一切的目标和意志是坚定不移的，愿继续以大方和开放的心态给美国时间和机会。”
With its carefully worded statement, North Korea appeared to shift the blame to the United States while trying to create an impression that it was the North Korean leader, and not Mr. Trump, who was the mature statesman trying to salvage the diplomatic process.
朝鲜措辞谨慎的声明似乎将责任推给了美国，同时也试图给人制造一种印象，那就是努力挽救外交进程的成熟政治家是这位朝鲜领导人，而非特朗普。
Mr. Trump, in a surprise announcement, said Thursday that he was pulling out of the June 12 summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Singapore. The American president cited North Korea’s recent expressions of hostility in making his decision, which was delivered to the North’s leader in a letter.
周四，特朗普突发声明，表示退出与金正恩原定于6月12日在新加坡举行的首脑会晤。这位美国总统在谈到这么做的原因时，援引了朝鲜近期的敌意。该决定通过信件交给了朝鲜领导人。
Mr. Kim, the vice foreign minister, said North Korea remained “willing to sit down with the United States any time, in any format, to resolve the problems.”
朝鲜外务省第一副相金桂冠表示，朝鲜依然“愿意随时以任何方式坐在一起解决问题”。
“We have been internally giving President Trump a high score for making a decision any other American president couldn’t and for exerting efforts to make a historic summit event happen,” he said. “Our chairman too has been making preparations, saying that if he meets with President Trump, it will be a good beginning.”
“朝鲜心里依然高度评价特朗普总统做出过去任何一届总统都未能作出的果断决策，并为促成这个重要大事进行努力。”他说。“朝鲜国务委员会委员长也说过，同特朗普总统会晤可能将起个好头，并为其准备工作付出了一切努力。”
The vice minister said that the “tremendous anger and open hostility” that Mr. Trump complained about in his letter was the North Korean way of protesting Washington’s demand for “a unilateral nuclear dismantlement.”
这位副相称，特朗普在信中抗议的“极大的愤怒和露骨的敌意”，只是朝鲜抗议华盛顿要求“单方面弃核”的方式。
“This unfortunate turn of event shows how serious is the deep-rooted problem between North Korea and the United States and why a summit meeting is so urgently needed,” the vice foreign minister said. But now North Korea, he said, was left wondering whether Mr. Trump “lacked a will or self-confidence” to deal with the North Koreans.
“当前不吉祥的事态就如实的证明，根深蒂固的朝美敌对关系现状多么地严重，又多么急需推动改善关系的首脑会晤。”这位副相说道。但他表示，现在，朝鲜不知道特朗普在与朝鲜人打交道时，是否“缺乏对首脑会晤的意志，还是信心不够”。