SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Tuesday tested a new multiple-rocket launcher with a range long enough to strike major American and South Korean military bases south of Seoul, South Korean military officials said.
韩国首尔——韩国军方官员称，朝鲜周二测试了一种新的多管火箭发射器，其射程可远达首尔以南的主要美国和韩国军事基地。
Four rockets were launched Tuesday afternoon from Wonsan, a coastal city east of the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, flying 96 miles to the northeast before crashing into the sea between the Korean Peninsula and Japan, a South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman said.
韩国国防部发言人说，周二下午，共有四枚火箭从朝鲜首都平壤东面的沿海城市元山发射升空，朝东北方向飞行了96英里（约合154.5公里），最后坠入朝鲜半岛和日本之间的海域。
The spokesman said his ministry had determined that the rockets were fired from a new multiple-rocket launcher that North Korea had been developing. He spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing ministry policy.
这名发言人说，韩国国防部已经认定，这些火箭是用朝鲜一直在研发的一种新型多管火箭发射器发射的。根据部门规定，此人要求匿名。
Earlier on Tuesday, North Korea tested an older multiple-rocket launcher, firing three rockets that flew 34 miles off its east coast, the spokesman said.
该发言人说，周二早些时候，朝鲜测试了一种老式的多管火箭发射器，它发射的三枚火箭从东海岸发射升空，飞行了34英里。
The tests are seen as Pyongyang’s latest show of force as the United States and South Korea conduct annual joint military exercises, to which the North strongly objects. On Thursday, North Korea fired four short-range ballistic missiles that traveled 124 miles from its east coast. On Monday, it fired another short-range ballistic missile that flew 310 miles.
美国和韩国目前正在进行朝鲜强烈反对的年度联合军演，人们认为平壤进行这些测试是展示实力的最新举动。上周四，朝鲜发射了四枚短程弹道导弹，这些导弹从东海岸发射升空，飞行了124英里。周一，朝鲜发射了另一枚短程弹道导弹，飞行距离为310英里。
“We believe this is an intentional provocation to raise tensions,” the South Korean ministry spokesman said Tuesday.
韩国国防部发言人周二表示，“我们认为，这是旨在加剧紧张的蓄意挑衅。”
Despite its moribund economy, North Korea has been conducting a vigorous missile and rocket program, and it has been trying to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile. But the apparent test of the new rocket launcher on Tuesday set off special interest in South Korea.
虽然经济停滞不前，但朝鲜一直在积极执行导弹和火箭计划，一直在尝试研发洲际弹道导弹。尽管如此，朝鲜周二疑似测试新型火箭发射器的举动还是引起了韩国的特别关注。
Apart from its nuclear arms, North Korea’s multiple-rocket launchers and artillery pieces are the weapons most feared in the South. The North is estimated to have 13,000 of them clustered on the inter-Korean border, just 28 miles north of Seoul; the North’s occasional threats over the years to turn the South Korean capital into a “sea of fire” are presumed to be references to these weapons.
除了核武器，韩国最担心的还有朝鲜的多管火箭发射器和大炮。据估计，朝鲜在朝韩边境，也就是首尔往北仅仅28英里的地方，部署了1.3万件此类武器。多年以来，朝鲜不时威胁称要将韩国首都变为“火海”，可想而知，这些威胁指的就是此类武器。
The North’s older, 240-millimeter multiple-rocket launchers have a range of 37 miles, putting Seoul and its 10 million people within range of rockets fired from the border. Partly for this reason, the United States and South Korea have situated major air force and other military bases well south of the capital.
朝鲜口径240毫米的老式多管火箭发射器的射程为37英里，从边境发射的火箭的攻击范围可以覆盖首尔及其1000万人口。部分出于这个原因，美国和韩国都将主要的空军及其他军事基地设在了首都的南边。
But South Korean military intelligence has long suspected the North of developing a longer-range rocket launcher that could reach some of those bases, including those in the Osan-Pyeongtaek hub about 60 miles south of Seoul, where the United States has been relocating many of its bases from around South Korea.
然而，韩国的军事情报机构早就怀疑，朝鲜在研发能够打击其中一些基地的远程火箭发射器，包括位于首尔以南约60英里处的乌山平泽基地，美国已将韩国各处的许多美军基地搬到了那里。
The United States and South Korea have been building up their ability to counter the North’s rocket and artillery threat in recent years, especially since the North’s artillery attack on a South Korean border island in 2010, which killed four people.
美韩两国最近几年一直在增强对付朝鲜火箭及大炮威胁的能力，特别是在朝鲜2010年炮击韩国边境岛屿造成四人死亡之后。
South Korea recently deployed Israeli-designed Spike missiles and their mobile launchers on its western border islands. The Spike missiles, with a range of 12 miles, target North Korean coastal guns and rocket batteries. But the range of North Korea’s new 300-millimeter multiple-rocket launcher means that the North can keep the launchers outside the range of the Spike missiles and still be able to hit Seoul, officials here said.
韩国最近在一些西部边境岛屿部署了以色列设计的“长钉”(Spike)导弹，以及这种导弹的移动发射装置。长钉导弹射程12英里，针对的是朝鲜沿海地区的大炮和火箭发射装置。但韩国官员表示，朝鲜口径300毫米的新型多管火箭发射器的射程更远，意味着朝鲜可以把这些发射器部署在长钉导弹的射程之外，而这些发射器依然能够打到首尔。