SEOUL, South Korea — In the latest sign of a thaw on the divided Korean Peninsula, hundreds of cars and trucks streamed across the border on Monday to take South Korean managers and raw materials back to a jointly operated industrial park in North Korea, where factories resumed production after a 166-day hiatus.
韩国首尔——数百辆汽车和卡车周一接二连三地穿过朝鲜和韩国的边界线，将韩国管理人员和原材料运回到两国在朝鲜境内联合经营的一个工业园，园内的工厂在停工166天后得以恢复生产，这是分裂的朝鲜半岛紧张局势开始缓和的最新迹象。
Operations at the factory complex in the North Korean town of Kaesong came to a halt in early April, when the North withdrew all 53,000 of its workers, blaming tensions with the United States and South Korea.
朝鲜开城工业园在今年4月陷入停顿状态，当时朝鲜撤出了5.3万名工人，借口是美国和韩国制造紧张局势。
The two Koreas reached an agreement in mid-August to reopen the complex, following weeks of negotiations. Technicians from the South have since made day trips across the border to work on the long-idled plants. Separately, South Korean officials have been negotiating with their North Korean counterparts over changes that they hope will make the joint project less vulnerable to political tensions in the future, such as attracting non-Korean investment.
经过数周谈判，朝韩两国在8月中达成协议重启这座工业园。自那时起，韩国技术人员便开始在白天越过边境到这座停工数月的工业园工作。此外，韩国官员也一直在与朝鲜对等官员谈判，希望能让这个联合项目在未来少受政治紧张局势的影响，比如吸引来自半岛以外的投资等。
More than 800 South Korean factory managers and truck drivers entered Kaesong on Monday, as about half of the 123 South Korean-owned factories there began test runs or resumed production, with North Korean employees back at work. Officials from a South Korean lobby group representing the interests of Kaesong factory owners handed out roses to managers at the border crossing to celebrate the occasion. Many of the South Koreans will stay at the site to manage the plants, as they had until South Korea withdrew all of its personnel between late April and early May.
800多名韩国工厂经理和卡车司机在周一进入开城，开城123家韩国工厂中约有半数已开始试运营或重新投产，朝鲜雇员也已回厂工作。代表开城工厂主利益的一个游说团体的官员在边境向这些经理献玫瑰花以庆祝恢复生产。很多韩国人将住在工业园管理工厂，就像在4月底5月初韩国撤出所有人员之前那样。
Since beginning operations in late 2004 as a test case for Korean reunification, the Kaesong complex has slowly grown in size, pairing South Korean manufacturing know-how with inexpensive North Korean labor. Last year, it produced $470 million worth of textiles, shoes, electronics parts and other goods.
作为朝鲜半岛统一的一个测试项目，开城工业园于2004年底开始运营，该工业园将韩国的制造业专业知识与廉价的朝鲜劳动力结合起来，规模慢慢扩大。去年，该工业园制造了价值4.7亿美元（约合29亿元人民币）的纺织品、鞋子、电子器件和其他物品。
North Korea has agreed to exempt the South Korean-owned factories in Kaesong from taxation this year to help them make up for the millions of dollars lost because of the five-month halt in production. It also agreed to allow more frequent border crossings for South Koreans working at the plants. The North previously opened the border only four times a day for those traveling to and from Kaesong.
朝鲜已同意免除开城工业园韩国工厂今年的税收以补偿因停产5个月给他们带来的数百万美元的损失。朝鲜还同意允许在工业园工作的韩国人更加频繁穿越边境。此前朝鲜边境只向往返开城的人每天开放4次。
The resumption of production at Kaesong was the most visible sign of easing tensions between the rival Koreas since they traded threats of war last spring, following the North’s latest nuclear test in February.
朝鲜在2月份进行了最近一次核试验，随之而来的是朝鲜和韩国今春互相发出的威胁战争，开城工业园重新投产是自那以来，两国的敌对局势开始缓和的最明显的标志。
Also on Monday, the two governments exchanged lists of names of people who will be allowed to meet with long-lost relatives from across the border, another inter-Korean program that is being resumed. The elderly Koreans, 96 from the South and 100 from the North, will participate in family reunions scheduled to begin on Sept. 25; they are among tens of thousands who have been on a waiting list to be reunited with relatives last seen during the Korean War of 1950-53.
同在周一，两国政府互换了被允许与失散已久的亲属跨边境见面者的名单，这是朝韩之间恢复的另一个项目。这些老年人中有96人来自韩国，100人来自朝鲜，他们将与家庭成员重聚，团圆活动将于从9月25日陆续开始；除他们之外，还有很多人在等待能与亲属团圆，这些亲人们最后一次见面是在1950年至1953年朝鲜战争期间。