SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean troops fired on a fellow soldier who was defecting to South Korea on Monday across the heavily armed border dividing the countries, South Korean officials said, amid heightened tensions over the North’s nuclear weapons program.
韩国首尔——在朝鲜的核武器计划导致紧张局势加剧之际，韩国官方称，朝鲜军队周一朝一名试图穿过两国之间戒备森严的边境，逃往韩国的士兵开枪。
The soldier was shot but succeeded in reaching the South, its military said in a statement.
韩国军方在一份声明中称，尽管被枪击中，但这名士兵成功抵达韩国。
The North Korean soldier defected through Panmunjom, a village that straddles the border between the two Koreas. Alerted by gunshots, South Korean guards found the North Korean soldier about 55 yards south of the border line that bisects Panmunjom. He was taken to a hospital with gunshot wounds to an elbow and shoulder, South Korean officials said.
这名朝鲜士兵是经由横跨两国边境的村庄板门店逃离的。听到枪声后，韩国守卫人员在把板门店一分为二的那条边境线以南大约55码（约合50米）的地方发现了这名朝鲜士兵。韩国官方称，肘部和肩膀中枪的他被送往了医院。
His defection took place while a joint naval exercise involving three American aircraft carriers was being conducted in waters off South Korea’s east coast. It was the first time in a decade that the United States Navy had mobilized three carrier groups in the same drill in the western Pacific, and it represented the show of force that President Trump has said Americans “hope to God we never have to use” against North Korea.
此次逃离事件发生时，正值美国派出三艘航空母舰，在韩国东海岸附近水域进行联合海军演习。这是美国海军十年来首次调动三个航母战斗群在西太平洋参加同一演习，也是对特朗普总统所说的美国民众“向上天祈祷永远不需要用来”对付朝鲜的那种武力的展示。
North Korea has remained defiant, calling Mr. Trump a “dotard” again on Saturday and insisting that it will never give up its pursuit of nuclear weapons.
朝鲜依然态度强硬，周六再次称特朗普是“老糊涂”，并坚称其永远不会放弃发展核武器。
The defector drove a vehicle toward the border line inside Panmunjom, and then left the vehicle, running south while he was fired upon by other North Korean soldiers, according to the American-led United Nations Command, which oversees the 1953 armistice that halted the Korean War.
据美国主导的联合国军司令部(United Nations Command)称，这名叛逃的朝鲜士兵先是驾车驶向板门店村里那条边境线，然后下车，顶着其他朝鲜士兵的子弹往南跑。联合国军司令部负责监督1953年那份让朝鲜战争停火的休战协议。
He took cover near a building on the southern side of the Joint Security Area in Panmunjom before South Korean and American troops came to his aid and took him to a hospital, the command said in a statement.
该司令部在一份声明中说，这名士兵躲在板门店联合安全区(Joint Security Area)南侧的一栋建筑附近，后来韩国和美国士兵前去援助，并将其送往医院。
The Joint Security Area, which is 35 miles north of Seoul, the capital, was established after North Korea and its ally China signed the armistice with the United Nations Command, which fought on South Korea’s behalf.
位于韩国首都首尔35英里（约合56公里）以南的联合安全区，是在朝鲜和它的盟友中国同代表韩国作战的联合国军司令部签署了休战协议后设立的。
The area is the only place along the border where troops from North and South Korea face off, separated from each other by only a few feet.
该区域是韩朝边境上唯一一个两国军队面对面对峙的地方，双方之间的距离只有几英尺。
A North Korean soldier last defected at the heavily guarded location in 2007.
上一次发生朝鲜士兵通过重兵把守的该地区逃离的事件是在2007年。
More than 30,000 North Koreans have fled to the South since a widespread famine hit the impoverished North in the late 1990s. Nearly all of them have traveled through China. But a few North Korean soldiers and civilians have defected by crossing the 2.5-mile-wide demilitarized zone, which is guarded by minefields, sentry posts and tall fences topped with barbed wire, some electrified.
自90年代末一贫如洗的朝鲜爆发大规模饥荒以来，已有超过三万朝鲜人逃至韩国。几乎所有人都是通过中国逃离的。但少量朝鲜士兵和平民是通过穿越2.5英里（约合4公里）宽的非军事区抵达韩国。非军事区设有地雷、哨所和顶上安装铁丝网的高栅栏，一些铁丝网还带电。
In 2012, a North Korean soldier scaled three barbed-wire fences to defect to the South. That same year, another North Korean soldier fled across the border after killing his platoon and squadron leaders. In 2015, after walking across the border, a North Korean soldier told South Korean investigators that he was fleeing widespread beatings and other abuse within his military barracks.
2012年，一名朝鲜士兵爬过三道安有铁丝网的栅栏，逃至韩国。同年，另一名朝鲜士兵在杀死了自己的小队长和中队长后越过边界逃离。2015年，一名朝鲜士兵在步行穿过边界后，对韩国调查人员表示，他是为了躲避军营内部普遍存在殴打和其他虐待行为。
The demilitarized zone is one of the world’s most heavily armed borders. Guards on both sides stay alert against possible intruders or defectors.
非军事区是全世界戒备最为森严的边境之一。两侧的守卫人员都对可能出现的入侵者和逃亡者保持警惕。
In 2013, South Korean soldiers shot and killed a South Korean man who was trying to cross a river at the western end of the border.
2013年，韩国士兵开枪打死了一名试图越过边境西端一条河流的韩国男子。
In 1984, a gunfight erupted at Panmunjom when a citizen from what was then the Soviet Union dashed across the border to defect to the West. North Korean troops opened fire to stop him, and South Korean border guards fired back. One South Korean soldier and three North Korean border guards were killed.
1984年，当一名来自当时苏联的公民冲过边界，逃往西方时，板门店爆发了一场枪战。朝鲜军队开火试图阻止他，韩国边防人员进行了回击。事件造成一名韩国士兵和三名朝鲜边防人员死亡。
Separately on Monday, the South Korean military said it had detained an American citizen, who had been approaching the inter-Korean border.
韩国军方周一单独表示拘押了一名不断靠近韩朝边境的美国公民。
South Korean defense, police and intelligence spokesmen all confirmed the detention of an American, but none would provide details on the record.
韩国国防、警察和情报部门的发言人均证实一名美国人被拘，但都没有正式提供细节。
The United States Embassy in Seoul said it was aware of the report but could not provide further details.
设在首尔的美国大使馆表示已获得通报，但无法提供进一步的细节。
In 2014, an American was detained by South Korean troops on a riverbank near the western border after trying to swim to the North. After he was apprehended, he told officials that he had intended to go to North Korea to meet its leader, Kim Jong-un.
2014年，一名美国人因为试图游向朝鲜而在西部边界附近的河岸被韩国军队拘押。逮捕后，他对官方表示，他本打算去朝鲜和朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)见面。