HONG KONG — North Korean state news media said Friday that a university student from the United States who had entered the country as a tourist was being held for “a hostile act.”
香港——朝鲜官方新闻媒体周五表示，一名以游客身份进入朝鲜的美国大学生因有“敌对行为”而被扣押。
The student, Otto F. Warmbier of the University of Virginia, was accused of entering North Korea with the intent of “bringing down the foundation of its single-minded unity,” according to the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.
据朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virgini)学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)被指进入朝鲜，意图“损害其团结一致的基础”。
Mr. Warmbier, who is from Cincinnati, is a third-year student studying economics with a minor in global sustainability, according to LinkedIn.
LinkedIn上的信息显示，来自辛辛那提的瓦姆比尔是一名主修经济学的大三学生，辅修全球可持续性。
A classmate said Mr. Warmbier was an honors student, a member of the university’s selective Echols Scholars Program and a member of the Theta Chi fraternity.
瓦姆比尔的一名同学表示，瓦姆比尔是一名优等生，获得了该校筛选严格的埃科尔斯奖学金(Echols Scholars Program)，也是西塔-西(Theta Chi)兄弟会的成员。
Young Pioneer Tours, a China-based company that operates tours to North Korea, said in a statement that one of its clients, identified as “Otto,” was being detained in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang. The company said that his family had been informed and that the company was in contact with the State Department and the Swedish Embassy, which provides services for Americans in North Korea.
总部位于中国、专营朝鲜旅游业务的青年先锋旅行社(Young Pioneer Tours)在一份声明中表示，它的一位名为“奥托”的客户在朝鲜首都平壤遭到拘捕。该公司表示，他的家人已经接到通知，公司正与美国国务院和瑞典驻朝鲜大使馆联系，后者给在朝鲜的美国人提供服务。
The exact timing of Mr. Warmbier’s detention is unknown, but it appears to have occurred several days ago.
瓦姆比尔被关押的确切时间不得而知，但似乎是在几天前。
In the past, Americans have been detained in North Korea for engaging in activities that the regime declared subversive because they were of a political or religious nature. But the classmate described Mr. Warmbier as neither actively religious nor political, though a picture on Facebook shows him attending a climate protest in New York in 2014.
过去曾有一些美国人因身份带有政治和宗教性质，被朝鲜认定为从事颠覆国家政权的活动并予以拘捕。但瓦姆比尔的同学表示，他对宗教和政治都不甚热心，尽管Facebook上的一张照片显示他曾于2014年在纽约参加一场和气候问题有关的抗议活动。
Other photos on Mr. Warmbier’s Facebook page include one of him behind the wheel of a classic American convertible taken in Havana last year. Another, in which he poses beside a cow, includes the caption: “One picture that captures my compassion for animals, worldly travels, and designer sunglasses.”
瓦姆比尔的Facebook主页上还有一张去年在哈瓦那拍摄的照片，当时他在驾驶一辆经典美国敞篷跑车。在另一张照片中，他在一头牛旁摆姿势拍照，配图文字写着：“这张照片捕捉到了我对动物、环球旅行和设计师品牌墨镜的热爱。”
Mark Toner, a deputy spokesman at the State Department, said Friday: “We are aware of media reports that a U.S. citizen was detained in North Korea. The welfare of U.S. citizens is one of the Department’s highest priorities. In cases where U.S. citizens are reported detained in North Korea, we work closely with the Swedish Embassy, which serves as the United States’ Protecting Power in North Korea.”
美国国务院副发言人马克·托纳(Mark Toner)周五表示，“媒体报道的一名美国公民在朝鲜被关押事件，我们已经知悉。美国公民的安危是国务院的首要事务之一。在涉及到朝鲜扣押美国公民的事件中，我们都会与驻平壤的瑞典大使馆紧密协作，后者是美国的在朝利益代表国。”
Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican running for president, issued a statement saying, “North Korea’s arrest of an Ohio college student is inexcusable and he should be released and returned immediately.”
共和党总统竞选人、俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)发表了一份声明表示，“朝鲜逮捕俄亥俄州大学生的行为不可原谅，他应该被立即释放，返回美国。”
North Korea is holding at least two other Westerners.
朝鲜至少还关押着两名西方人士。
The Rev. Lim Hyeon-soo, 60, a South Korean-born Canadian minister, was sentenced to hard labor for life by North Korea’s Supreme Court in December for “subversive plots” against North Korea and its leader, Kim Jong-un.
今年12月，朝鲜最高法院判处在韩国出生的加拿大牧师、现年60岁的林铉洙(Lim Hyeon-soo)终身劳教，理由是针对朝鲜及其领导人金正恩的“颠覆阴谋”。