WASHINGTON — Early in his first term, President Obama conducted some quick triage on how his administration would face a gamut of nuclear challenges: Focus on stopping Iran’s nuclear program before it succeeded in building a weapon, but do not waste a lot of energy trying to roll back a North Korean program that had already built a small arsenal that the desperately poor country had little incentive to give up.
华盛顿——第一个任期开始不久，奥巴马总统对他的政府处理全球核挑战的方式进行了简明扼要的划分：在伊朗成功造出核武器之前阻止其核计划，但不要在朝鲜身上浪费太多精力，因为这个极端贫穷的国家已经拥有了一座小型军火库，没有什么因素会导致朝鲜放弃它。
It was a pragmatic roll of the dice. While it will be years before the strategy’s long-term wisdom can be assessed, Iran, eager to have economic sanctions lifted, shipped 98 percent of its known stockpile of nuclear fuel to Russia last week, most likely crippling its ability to build a weapon over the next decade.
这个赌注很务实。虽然要评估它的长期效果尚需时日，但是伊朗渴望国际社会解除对它的经济制裁，上周已经把98%的已知核燃料储备运到了俄罗斯。今后10年内伊朗制造核武器的能力都很可能已被严重削弱。
But the North Koreans have a way of acting out when they feel ignored. The detonation that rocked Northeast Asia on Wednesday morning and Pyongyang’s claim to have set off its first hydrogen bomb — a boast there is good reason to treat with skepticism — is a reminder that the North Koreans have been on something of an atomic spending spree while American negotiators were cloistered in Vienna striking deals with the Iranians.
不过，朝鲜在感到被忽略的时候很善于表现。本周三上午，一场爆炸震撼了东北亚地区，平壤自称引爆了其第一颗氢弹——有合适的理由怀疑朝鲜在夸大其词——这提醒我们，当美国谈判人员在维也纳埋头和伊朗人磋商协议的时候，朝鲜一直在原子领域大力投入。
Meanwhile, North Korea has improved both the range and mobility of its missiles, making them harder to deter — or take out if the North Korean regime collapses or decides to go out in a suicidal blaze of glory. Senior American military officials have periodically offered public assessments that the North probably now has the ability to shrink a nuclear weapon to a size small enough to fit atop one of those weapons, meaning the world’s most unpredictable regime could credibly threaten South Korea, Japan, American forces in the Pacific and, eventually, the West Coast of the United States. The only saving grace is that in many missile tests over the past few years, the North Koreans have repeatedly demonstrated pretty lousy aim.
与此同时，朝鲜导弹的射程和机动性也获得了改善，变得更加难以防御——假如朝鲜政权崩溃，或是决定采取“光荣自杀”式的行动，要解除这些导弹的威胁也变得更加困难。美国高级军事官员定期发布公开评估，称朝鲜很可能现在能把核武器缩减到足够小的尺寸，从而可以搭载在那些导弹上。这意味着全球最乖张的政权或许可以对韩国、日本、太平洋地区的美国部队构成真正的威胁，并最终危及美国西海岸。唯一可以庆幸的是，过去几年的多次导弹试射证明，朝鲜的准头一直相当差劲。
If the North Koreans really have mastered the engineering of a thermonuclear weapon, it would marginally increase the severity of that threat. But politically, it renews a question: What do you do with a problem like North Korea?
如果朝鲜真的掌握了热核武器技术，这种威胁的严重性只是略有增加而已。但在政治上，这又再次提出一个问题：你该拿朝鲜这样的麻烦怎么办？
United Nations Security Council resolutions — the Council met on Wednesday in response to the latest test — clearly have little effect. And hopes that the North Korean government will collapse have proved fantasy so far: If Kim Jong-un is still in office on Jan. 20, 2017, the Kim family dynasty — grandfather, father and son — will have outlasted a dozen United States presidents.
联合国安理会的决议——安理会本周三就这次新的核试验召开了会议——显然收效甚微。认为朝鲜政府很快就会崩溃的想法迄今为止也不过是幻想：只要金正恩2017年1月20日仍在掌权，那么金氏王朝祖孙三代的执政时间就比12位美国总统加在一起还长。
But what the Obama administration has advertised as “strategic patience” — not overreacting to every North Korean test and demand for a payoff while continuing pressure through sanctions until the North agrees to negotiate — may well be judged by administration critics as having paved the way for a Pakistani-size arsenal.
然而，在批评者看来，奥巴马政府宣扬的“战略耐心”——不对朝鲜进行的每次核试验都反应过度、要求清算，同时继续通过制裁施加压力，直到朝鲜同意进行谈判——反而为朝鲜铺平了道路，造就了一座与巴基斯坦规模相当的军火库。
“Strategic patience has led to acquiescence,” Robert Litwak of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and the author of “Outlier States: American Strategies to Change, Contain, or Engage Regimes,” said on Wednesday. “What a contrast to the effort and creativity the administration put into the Iranian case.”
“战略耐心导致了默许，”伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)的学者、《离群之国：美国在改变、遏制或接触各政权上的战略》(Outlier States: American Strategies to Change, Contain, or Engage Regimes)的作者罗伯特·利特瓦克(Robert Litwak)周三表示。“这与奥巴马政府在伊朗问题上投入的精力、发挥的创造性形成了鲜明对比。”
From Pyongyang’s viewpoint, there is little incentive to give up the nuclear arsenal. The world is not exactly banging on North Korea’s door to do business the way it wants to resume relations with Iran: The North has no oil, no striving middle class and little strategic value in the modern world. Its greatest power is the threat it poses to one of the most prosperous corners of the globe.
从朝鲜的角度来看，让它放弃核武库的诱因少之又少。外界并没有像努力与伊朗恢复关系那样去敲打朝鲜的大门，试图也和他们做生意：朝鲜没有石油，也没有蓬勃发展的中产阶级，而且在当今世上几乎没有战略价值。它最大的能耐就是给全球最繁荣的地区之一制造威胁。
But it is also considered by many too dangerous to allow North Korea to fail. The Chinese know that if it ceases to exist, the South Koreans, and their American allies, will be on the Chinese border. The South Koreans know that if a conflict breaks out, the North will lose — but only after Seoul, just 35 miles or so from the North Korean border, is a smoking ruin.
但是，也有很多人不愿意朝鲜崩溃，因为那样太危险。中国明白，如果朝鲜不复存在，韩国和他们的美国盟友就会直抵自家门口。韩国也明白，如果冲突爆发，朝鲜必将失败——但首尔距离朝鲜边境只有约35英里，届时也会化为硝烟缭绕的废墟。
So the North Korean strategy is to up the ante, and hope the world will acknowledge it as a nuclear weapons power that has to be dealt with. H-Bomb or no H-bomb, nuclear weapons are the country’s insurance policy, and the test was a sign that it has no intention of cashing it in.
所以，朝鲜的策略就是加大赌注，希望外界承认它是一个核武大国，必须加以重视。无论有没有氢弹，核武器都是它的保险，而这次核试验显示，它还无意兑现保单。