SEOUL, South Korea — Ri Yong-ho, a career North Korean diplomat familiar to American and South Korean officials who have negotiated with his country over its nuclear weapons program, has been appointed its new foreign minister, a South Korean government official said on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——一名韩国政府官员周二表示，参加过有关朝鲜核武器计划谈判的朝鲜职业外交官李英浩已被确定为该国的新任外交部长，韩国和美国外交官对这个人比较熟悉。
Among outside analysts, Mr. Ri has been widely cited as a possible new foreign minister since his boss, the departing Foreign Minister Ri Su-yong, was promoted to become a member of the Politburo of the ruling Workers’ Party during the party’s rare congress this month.
外界分析人士普遍认为，李英浩是可能担任新外长的人选，自从他的上司、即将离任的外交部长李洙墉本月在朝鲜执政党劳动党举行的罕见代表大会上被提升为劳动党政治局委员。
In the party leadership reshuffle, Ri Yong-ho, who had served as a vice foreign minister under the other Mr. Ri, was made an alternate member of the Politburo.
在劳动党领导层的改组中，李英浩被选为政治局候补委员，他曾在李洙墉手下担任外交部副部长。
A South Korean Foreign Ministry official said on Tuesday that his government had learned that Ri Yong-ho had been appointed foreign minister. The official said he could share the information only on the condition of anonymity because the North had not made it public through state media.
一名韩国外交部官员周二表示，韩国政府已获悉李英浩被任命为外交部长。这位官员说，他只能在匿名的条件下告诉记者这一信息，因为朝鲜的官方媒体尚未公布该任命。
The Associated Press reported on Tuesday that the North Korean Embassy in London had informed the British government of Mr. Ri’s new job on Monday.
美联社周二报道，朝鲜驻伦敦大使馆周一已将李英浩的新职务通告了英国政府。
Ri Yong-ho has been best known as his country’s top envoy to the so-called six-nation talks with the United States, South Korea, Japan, Russia and China aimed at ending its nuclear weapons program. The talks have stalled since 2008, and during the recent party meeting, North Korea further dimmed their prospects by suggesting that it would discuss its denuclearization only as part of global nuclear arms reductions.
李英浩最有名的角色是他曾作为朝鲜高级特使，参加该国与美国、韩国、日本、俄罗斯和中国举行的所谓六方会谈，会谈的目的是结束朝鲜核武器计划。会谈自2008年以来陷入僵局，在最近的劳动党代表大会期间，朝鲜暗示，本国无核化的问题只能作为全球裁减核武器的一部分来讨论，让会谈的前景进一步黯淡。
Mr. Ri led the negotiators from North Korea who reached the so-called Leap Day agreement with the United States in February 2012. Under that deal, Washington promised to provide food aid to the North in return for a North Korean moratorium on uranium enrichment and missile tests. But the deal collapsed the following April, when the North launched a long-range rocket widely seen as a cover for the development of an intercontinental ballistic missile.
李英浩率领朝鲜代表团在2012年2月与美国达成了所谓的闰日协议。根据该协议，华盛顿答应为朝鲜提供粮食援助，条件是朝鲜停止铀浓缩项目和导弹试射。但协议在次年4月失效，原因是朝鲜发射了长程火箭，这一做法被广泛视为是给洲际弹道导弹的开发打掩护。
North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, promoted a handful of confidants, including Ri Su-yong, into the top ranks of government during the party congress this month. Ri Su-yong was North Korea’s ambassador to Switzerland and served as Mr. Kim’s caretaker when Mr. Kim went to school there as a teenager.
朝鲜领导人金正恩在本月的劳动党第七次代表大会上，把几名心腹提拔进政府的最高层，其中包括李洙墉。李洙墉曾担任朝鲜驻瑞士大使，并曾在金正恩少年时期在瑞士读书时，作为金正恩监护人。
During the party meeting, Ri Su-yong also became a vice chairman and department director of the party’s Central Committee and a member of its newly created Executive Policy Bureau. The title of vice chairman replaced the old post of party secretary.
在劳动党七大上，李洙墉还被任命为劳动党中央委员会副委员长、党中央委员会部长，以及新设的政务局的一名成员。副委员长的头衔取代了中央书记的旧头衔。
Ri Su-yong’s elevation in theory makes him the supervisor of North Korea’s foreign policy, replacing the old party secretary, Kang Sok-ju, another longtime nuclear negotiator, who South Korean intelligence officials said was sick.
在理论上来说，李洙墉的提拔使他成为朝鲜外交政策的主管，他换下了也曾长期担任核谈判代表的原中央书记姜锡柱，据韩国情报官员说，姜锡柱身体不好。