SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Thursday that it had arrested a spy sent by the intelligence agency of its rival, South Korea.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周四表示，他们抓获了敌国韩国的情报机构派来的一名间谍。
The North’s intelligence authority recently apprehended the spy in Pyongyang, a spokesman for the Ministry of State Security of North Korea told the country’s official Korean Central News Agency. The agent confessed that he had come from South Korea and had been operating in a “third country” for six years, wearing “the mask of religion,” to spy on and plot against North Korea, the spokesman said.
朝鲜国家安全部的一名发言人告诉朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)，该国情报机构最近在平壤抓获了这名间谍。发言人称，该间谍承认自己来自韩国，而且已经在“另一个国家”工作了六年，戴着“宗教面具”进行间谍活动和反朝鲜的阴谋活动。
“He infiltrated all the way into our capital, Pyongyang, to rally unhealthy elements with the purpose of destroying our society and system and stability,” the unidentified spokesman was quoted as saying. “It shows how far the conservative puppet clique in the South is taking its racket against our republic.”
“他渗入我们的首都平壤来笼络不良分子，目的是摧毁我们的社会、体制和稳定，”该社援引这个未具名发言人的话说。“这体现了韩国的保守派傀儡集团有多么想伤害我们的共和国。”
He said the investigation was continuing but gave no further details.
他说调查仍在继续，但是没有提供进一步细节。
South Korean intelligence officials quickly called the North Korean claim groundless and preposterous.
韩国情报官员很快表示，朝鲜的说法毫无根据、荒谬可笑。
North Korea has often asserted that South Korean Christian activists working in China to help refugees from the North are spies controlled by the South Korean intelligence agency. Some of these activists help smuggle refugees out of North Korea and send Bibles and other Christian messages, as well as aid, into the impoverished country — acts that Pyongyang considers hostile.
朝鲜经常声称，在中国帮助朝鲜逃亡者的韩国基督教活动人士是受朝鲜情报部门控制的间谍。部分活动人士帮助逃亡者逃离朝鲜，向这个贫穷的国家传播《圣经》(Bibles)等基督教讯息，并且提供援助。平壤认为，这些都是敌对行为。
North Korea has been holding Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary, on charges of “hostile acts” since last November. Mr. Bae was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor in May.
去年11月，朝鲜以“敌对行为”的罪名扣押了韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)，直至现在。今年5月，肯尼斯·裴被判劳教15年。
Last month, North Korea repatriated six South Koreans who had fled to the North in recent years to escape bankruptcies and family troubles in the South. The gesture was unusual because the North had in the past welcomed defectors from the South and used them for propaganda.
上个月，朝鲜遣返了6名韩国人，这些人都是近些年为逃避破产或家庭问题而逃到朝鲜的。这个举动不同寻常，因为朝鲜过去一直很欢迎韩国的叛逃者，还会利用他们来做宣传。