The United Nations Commission of Inquiry’s report on North Korea, released last month, contains so many tragic findings that it is difficult to grasp the scale of the crimes described. But the world owes it to the North Korean victims, both living and dead, to focus on a figure buried in paragraph 664 of the commission’s report: $645,800,000.
在联合国调查委员会(United Nations Commission of Inquiry)上月公布的朝鲜报告中，包含了诸多悲剧性的发现，以致于让人难以理解其中描述的种种罪行的规模之大。不过，为了已经去世与一息尚存的朝鲜受难者，全世界都应当注意到委员会报告第664段里的一个不起眼的数字：6亿4580万美元（约合39亿7000万元人民币）。
That is what the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, is said to have squandered in 2012 on “luxury goods,” including cosmetics, handbags, leather products, watches, electronics, cars and top-shelf alcohol. In that same year, Mr. Kim also spent $1.3 billion on his ballistic missile programs.
据称，这是朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)2012年挥霍在“奢侈品”上的花销，涵盖化妆品、手袋、皮革制品、钟表、电子产品、汽车和顶级酒类。同一年，金正恩还在弹道导弹计划上耗费了13亿美元。
Mr. Kim’s profligacy should be weighed against two other statistics absent from the commission’s report. The first is $150 million. That is what the United Nations World Food Program asked donor nations to give for food and other humanitarian aid for North Koreans in 2013. The second is 84 — the percentage of North Korean households that, according to the W.F.P. and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, had “borderline” or “poor” levels of food consumption in 2013.
金正恩的肆意挥霍应该与委员会报告中没有提及的两项数据进行比照。第一个数字是1.5亿美元。这是联合国世界粮食计划署(United Nations World Food Program)2013年请求捐助国为朝鲜的粮食等人道援助项目慷慨解囊的金额。第二个数字是84%，也就是粮食计划署与联合国粮食及农业组织(United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization)估算的2013年食物摄取量处于“糟糕”或“边缘”水平的朝鲜家庭的比例。
Today, North Koreans starve to death by the dozens, maybe the hundreds. But during the great famine of the 1990s, between 600,000 and 2.5 million people died of hunger. According to the commission’s report, the North Korean regime, then headed by Kim Jong-il, obstructed the delivery of aid to the hungriest regions until 1997, and punished those who tried to earn, buy, steal or smuggle in enough food to survive. The regime was “well aware of the country’s deteriorating food situation” as it stocked airfields, reactors and palaces, rather than food stores.
如今，饥饿致死的朝鲜民众有几十，或者几百人。然而，上世纪90年代的大饥荒期间，饿死的人在60万到250万之间。根据委员会报告的描述，当时由金正日(Kim Jong-il)领导的朝鲜政权一直阻挠外界向饥荒最严重的地区提供援助，并对试图赚取、购买、盗窃或走私粮食以供生存之需的人进行惩处，这种情况一直持续到了1997年。该政权“清楚地了解国家每况愈下的粮食状况”，却在不断修建机场、核反应堆及宫殿，而不是囤积粮食储备。
According to one expert witness testimonial before the commission, the North Korean regime, at the height of the famine, could have closed its food gap by importing between $100 and $200 million worth of food each year, which is just 1 to 2 percent of its national income. Yet rather than using foreign food aid to supplement its own commercial food imports, the commission found that Kim Jong-il used aid “as a substitute for” them, cutting back on commercial food imports when more aid arrived. By contrast, the State Department estimates that in 1997, at the peak of the famine, North Korea’s annual military budget was $6 billion.
在调查委员会面前作证的一名专家证人表示，在大饥荒最严重的阶段，朝鲜政权本可以通过每年进口价值1到2亿美元的粮食来弥补国内的粮食短缺，而且这一金额仅占其国民收入的1%到2%。结果，委员会发现，金正日并不是把外国的粮食援助作为自身商业粮食进口的补充，而是将其作为“一种替代”：有更多的援助运抵朝鲜的时候，就削减商业粮食进口。相比之下，根据美国国务院的估算，在大饥荒发展到顶峰的1997年，朝鲜的年度军事预算高达60亿美元。
One defector testified that in 1995, as North Koreans began to die by the tens of thousands, the Kim regime spent $790 million on a mausoleum for North Korea’s founder, Kim Il-sung — which would have been enough to close North Korea’s food gap for four years.
一名叛逃者作证，1995年，即朝鲜开始饿死上万人的时候，金氏政权耗费7.9亿美元为其创始人金日成(Kim Il-sung)修建了一座陵寝。这笔钱本来足以弥补朝鲜四年的粮食短缺。
The commission’s report has several profound implications for how we approach complex questions about food aid, sanctions and diplomacy, presenting the world’s democracies with sobering clarity.
调查委员会的报告带来了几项极大的启发，指导我们如何处理粮食援助、制裁和外交方面的棘手问题，为全世界的民主国家呈上了一幅令人警醒的清晰画面。
First, North Korea’s leaders do not value human life or happiness, the essence of why we value peace itself. The same pathology — one that prioritizes military power over human life — lies at the root of its nuclear weapons program. The regime’s wanton disregard for innocent life means its nuclear weapons pose a greater threat than those possessed by other nations.
首先，朝鲜领导人不关心人类生命或福祉，也就是我们之所以珍视和平本身的那些理由。其核武计划的根源也在于同样的病态思维——将军事力量放在比人命更重要的位置上。朝鲜政权罔顾无辜生命的恶行意味着，该国核武带来的威胁要高于其他国家手中的核武。
Second, North Korea’s willful enforcement of hunger casts doubt on the capacity of outsiders to feed its people, absent fundamental political change in Pyongyang. Coping mechanisms that regular North Koreans have learned — such as food smuggling, growing of food on hidden plots and black market trading — have probably done more to end the famine and change North Korean society than aid or “engagement” programs.
其次，在平壤不发生根本性政治转变的情况下，朝鲜有意造成的饥荒让人怀疑，外界在让其国民吃饱饭的事情上能起到多大作用。比起援助或“接触”项目，普通民众学会的应对机制——比如粮食走私、在隐藏的田地中种植，以及黑市交易——可能对终结饥荒并改变朝鲜社会起到了更大的作用。
Third, U.N.-mandated sanctions to impede North Korea’s weapons programs, imposed years after the famine ended, did not plunge North Korea back into famine. They are certainly not the cause of North Koreans’ hunger, but they could be an important tool for forcing Kim Jong-un to make better decisions about the use of his wealth.
最后，饥荒结束多年后，为了阻挠朝鲜的武器计划，联合国对其施行了强制制裁，但这并未将其推回饥荒中去。这些制裁措施当然不是朝鲜人饿肚子的原因，却可以成为一种迫使金正恩更明智地使用财富的重要手段。
If the Kim regime’s transactions are denominated in dollars, they must move through accounts in American banks regulated by the United States Treasury Department, rather than directly between two non-American entities. These “dollar-clearing” American banks form the hub of the global financial system. Under existing laws and regulations, the Treasury may block these funds and prevent them from entering or leaving this hub. Pending American legislation would authorize the Treasury to use existing procedures to release blocked funds for limited purposes, such as bulk purchases of food, medicine and humanitarian supplies, instead of weapons and luxuries. The humanitarian supplies could be purchased and distributed through the W.F.P., but the W.F.P. and its donor countries would have to prevail upon Mr. Kim to ensure that the aid is distributed to those who need it the most.
如果说金氏政权的交易以美元结算，那么就必须经由受美国财政部监管的美国银行的账户，而不是在两家非美实体之间直接交易。这些“美元结算”的美国银行构成了全球金融体系的枢纽。按照目前的法规，财政部有权截留此类资金并阻止它们从这一枢纽进出。审议中的美国法案将赋予财政部一定的权力，可以利用现有程序来为截留资金放行，用于一些特定目的，例如大批量采购粮食、药物和人道主义补给，而不是武器和奢侈品。人道主义补给可以通过粮食计划署来购买并分配，但该机构及其捐助国必须说服金正恩，保证把援助交到最需要的人手中。
Mr. Kim could go for such a deal because he remains dependent on the international financial system to access the billions of dollars he keeps in Europe and China. European regulators should apply similar restrictions to North Korean deposits denominated in euros. Chinese banks also need access to their American accounts to access the global financial system. In the past, they have been unwilling to risk that access and help North Korea circumvent sanctions. This is a vulnerability of the Kim regime that the United States should exploit.
金正恩可能会接受这样的协议，因为他还依赖国际金融体系来调动自己放在欧洲和中国的数亿资金。欧洲的监管机构应当对以欧元结算的朝鲜存款施加类似的限制。中国银行也需要通过自身的美国账户来接入国际金融体系。过去，它们一直不愿拿这一点来冒险帮助朝鲜避开制裁。这是美国应当加以利用的金氏政权的弱点。
That is the hopeful note on which this bleak story could end. Forcing changes in Kim Jong-un’s financial priorities is a key objective of the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act, jointly introduced by the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. We need not default to apathy or harbor delusions of impotence. We may yet have the power to ease, or to end, this vast misery through a peaceful and principled policy of sanctioning Mr. Kim’s profligacy.
这也是终结凄惨的朝鲜故事的希望所在。迫使金正恩改变财务上的优先事项正是众议院外交事务委员会(House Foreign Affairs Committee)的两党领导层共同推出的《执行对朝制裁法案》(North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act)的一个主要目标。我们无需冷漠以对，或是抱有无能为力的错觉。通过和平而有原则的政策来制裁金正恩的肆意挥霍，我们或许还有能力缓解乃至终结这种大规模的人间惨剧。