SEOUL, South Korea — When Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, arrives at the seventh congress of the governing Workers’ Party on Friday, he will essentially be attending his own coronation. Meeting for the first time in a generation, the congress — in theory, the country’s highest decision-making body — will cement his status as supreme leader.
韩国首尔——当金正恩(Kim Jong-un)周五到达朝鲜执政党劳动党的第七次全国代表大会会场时，他实质上将是在参加他自己的加冕礼。这是30多年来该党首次举行代表大会——理论上，它是该国的最高决策机构。本次大会将巩固金正恩作为最高领导人的地位。
It will also elect a new central committee, which in turn appoints the party’s Politburo and presidium. Those posts are expected to be filled with a new generation of loyalists whom Mr. Kim has already been elevating through purges and reshuffles, analysts said.
大会还将选出新的中央委员会，然后委员会又会任命该党的政治局及常务委员会成员。分析人士称，通过清洗和改组，金正恩已经提拔了一代新的忠诚追随者，预计这些职位会由他们填补。
By far the most interesting aspect of the meeting will be Mr. Kim’s promotion of his so-called byungjin policy, which calls for simultaneously achieving two seemingly incompatible goals: a nuclear arsenal and economic development.
就目前来看，这次大会最有趣的地方将是金正恩提倡他所说的“并行”路线。该政策旨在同时实现两个看似不相容的目标：核武库建设和经济发展。
Mr. Kim has accelerated North Korea’s pursuit of nuclear warheads and the ballistic missiles capable of delivering them. As a result, his country has come under more international sanctions, which has complicated what he defined as his top priority in a New Year’s speech in January: improving living conditions for his people.
金正恩加快了该国研发核弹头及搭载核弹头的弹道导弹的步伐，导致朝鲜遭受了更多的国际制裁。他在今年1月的新年致辞中称，目前的当务之急是改善朝鲜人的生活条件，而国际制裁加剧了实现这个目标的复杂性。
Analysts said Mr. Kim’s byungjin policy would be reaffirmed as the official party line, though reviving the North’s moribund economy while the country is under sanctions is a difficult prospect. He has said the congress will present “an ambitious blueprint” for his nation.
分析人士认为，大会将重申金正恩的并行发展政策是党的官方路线，虽然在制裁之下，要重振朝鲜奄奄一息的经济非常艰难。他曾表示，大会将为该国勾画出“一幅宏伟蓝图”。
“The congress is an occasion for Kim Jong-un to officially declare at home and abroad that his era has arrived,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul. “He will boast about his nuclear weapons and the security they provide as his biggest achievement, and then will exhort his country to focus on rebuilding the economy.”
“金正恩将借这次大会之机，来向国内外正式宣布，他的时代来临了，”首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)朝鲜研究教授高有焕(Koh Yu-hwan)说。“他会把核武器及其提供的安全感吹嘘为自己的最大成就，然后敦促朝鲜把重点放在经济重建上。”
Some analysts said that after the meeting, Mr. Kim may try to reduce tensions on the Korean Peninsula as a way to encourage China to offer more aid.
一些分析人士认为，会议结束后，金正恩可能会尝试缓和朝鲜半岛的紧张局势，以此来鼓励中国提供更多援助。
But others remained skeptical. “Kim Jong-un will never stop nuclear weapons development,” said Chang Yong-seok, an analyst at the Institute for Peace and Unification Studies at Seoul National University. “He does not consider economic reform without nuclear weapons.”
但另外一些人仍持怀疑态度。“金正恩永远不会停止核武器的研发，”首尔大学和平与统一研究中心(Institute for Peace and Unification Studies at Seoul National University)分析师张永石(Chang Yong-seok)说。“没有核武器，他不会考虑经济改革。”
Mr. Kim’s audience will include foreign journalists invited to cover the event, allowing the world a rare glimpse of the supreme leader’s vision for his impoverished yet nuclear-armed country.
金正恩的听众将包括受邀前去报道大会的外国记者。这是个难得一见的机会，让外界一睹朝鲜最高领袖对这个贫困的核武国家的愿景。
During the last party congress, held in 1980, Mr. Kim’s grandfather, the North’s founding president, Kim Il-sung, spoke for five hours on his party’s achievements, frequently interrupted by applauding delegates. At the time, North Korea still enjoyed a degree of economic and military advantage over South Korea.
上次党代会是在1980年举行的。金正恩的祖父、朝鲜开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)当时对党的成就做了五个小时的发言，频频被代表的掌声打断。那时候，朝鲜相对韩国仍然拥有一定程度的经济和军事优势。
But things have changed. South Korea’s economy surged ahead, while millions of North Koreans died of hunger during a famine in the 1990s. Refugees fled the failed socialist paradise in the North, many ending up in the capitalist South.
但是情况发生了改变。韩国经济突飞猛进，而朝鲜却有数百万人死于90年代的一场大饥荒。难民逃离朝鲜这个失败的社会主义天堂，其中有许多最终定居在实行资本主义的韩国。
Still, North Korea stuck to its command economy, even when the Soviet bloc disintegrated and its neighbor, China, adopted market reforms and prospered.
然而，朝鲜依然坚持实行指令经济，尽管苏联阵营解体，它的邻居中国也进行了市场改革，因之繁荣起来。
Mr. Kim’s father, who came to power in 1994, adopted an emergency “military first” rule, relying on the People’s Army as the main governing tool, and never convened a party congress. He sought nuclear weapons in defiance of United Nations sanctions, telling his people that the weapons would protect their independence and dignity from “the American imperialists.”
金正恩的父亲于1994年上台，采取了非常时期的“先军”政策，依靠朝鲜人民军作为主要的统治工具，从未召开过一次党代会。他无视联合国的制裁，追求核武，并告诉民众这些武器将保护他们不受“美帝国主义”欺凌，保持自身的独立与尊严。
Mr. Kim was still in his late 20s when the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2011 catapulted him to the top of the secretive regime. Outside analysts who had predicted openness and diplomatic compromise under his young leadership — Mr. Kim had spent time in Switzerland as a teenager — had a surprise in store.
到了2011年，因父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)去世，金正恩突然被推上该封闭政权最高领导人的位置，此时他还不到30岁。外部分析人士曾预测，在这名年轻领导人的统治下，朝鲜会走向开放，实现外交上的妥协——青少年时期，金正恩曾在瑞士生活过——结果却令他们大吃一惊。
The young man had more than 100 senior party officials or generals, including his own uncle, executed, while he also let the Workers’ Party regain its influence on the military. Thousands more were demoted or banished. He engineered purges with such a frequency and ruthlessness that President Park Geun-hye of South Korea called Mr. Kim’s rule a “reign of terror.”
这个年轻人处决了逾百名党内高级官员和军方将领，包括他的姑父，并恢复了劳动党对军方的影响力。还有成千上万人被贬职或驱逐。他如此频繁而无情地开展清洗运动，以致韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)称其统治为“恐怖政权”。
His key selling point domestically has been his image as a strong young leader able to arm his country with nuclear weapons. In recent months, North Korea has tried to bolster that image by reporting success in a flurry of tests of technologies needed to acquire a nuclear strike capability, including the test of what it called a submarine-launched ballistic missile.
他在国内的主要卖点一直是能够用核武器武装自己国家的强势年轻领导人形象。最近几个月，朝鲜试图强化这一形象，方式是报道朝鲜在获取核打击能力所需技术的一系列测试方面取得成功的消息，其中包括该国宣称为潜射弹道导弹的试验。
North Korea conducted the last two of its four nuclear tests under Mr. Kim, including one on Jan. 6. The North also placed two satellites into orbit, the most recent in February, by using rockets widely believed to be a cover for developing an intercontinental ballistic missile.
朝鲜的四次核试验有两次是在金正恩领导下进行，其中包括今年1月6日的一次。朝鲜还将两颗卫星送入轨道，最近的一颗在今年2月通过火箭发射，被外界普遍认为是在为研发洲际弹道导弹打掩护。
North Korea’s media did not report what South Korean and United States officials called three successive failures in launching its Musudan intermediate-range ballistic missile in recent weeks.
韩国和美国官员表示，朝鲜在最近几周连续三次试射“舞水端”(Musudan)中程导弹均遭遇失败。朝鲜媒体没有提及此事。
Jeong Joon-hee, a South Korean government spokesman, said he suspected the North Korean military pressed ahead with the doomed tests to help glorify Mr. Kim’s image ahead of the party congress.
韩国政府发言人郑俊熙(Jeong Joon-hee)表示，他怀疑朝鲜军方之所以持续进行注定失败的武器试验，是为了在党代会前美化金正恩的形象。
Such nationalism has proved popular among young North Koreans, said Mr. Chang, whose Institute for Peace and Unification Studies has been tracking public opinion inside the North by interviewing recent defectors.
张永石称，事实证明，此类民族主义宣传在朝鲜年轻人中比较受欢迎。通过对新近脱北者的采访，他所在的和平与统一研究中心一直在追踪朝鲜内部的舆论。
“He is definitely more popular among young people than old,” Mr. Chang said.
“他在年轻人当中肯定比在老年当人中受欢迎，”张永石说。
“Youth” has been a defining key word ahead of the party congress, said Park Ju-hwa and Kim Kap-sik, researchers at the government-run Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul.
位于首尔的韩国官方机构韩国统一研究院(Korea Institute for National Unification)的研究员朴朱华（Park Ju-hwa，音）和金甲植（Kim Kap-sik，音）表示，在党代会召开前夕，“青春”是一个定调的关键词。
They analyzed more than 1,500 articles the main North Korean party newspaper Rodong Sinmun has carried about the congress, and found “youth” cropping up repeatedly in various political slogans, like “youth power.”
他们分析了朝鲜党报《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)刊登的有关党代会的1500多篇文章，发现“青春”这个词在各种政治口号中反复出现，比如“青春力量”。