SEOUL, South Korea —  North Korea on Monday canceled a joint cultural event it had planned to hold with South Korea early next month, blaming “insulting” South Korean news media coverage of its participation in the Winter Olympics, South Korean officials said.
韩国首尔——韩国官员表示，朝鲜周一取消了原定于下月初与韩国举行的联合文化活动，指责韩国新闻媒体对朝鲜参加冬奥会的报道具有“侮辱性”。
When the two Koreas agreed this month that the North would send a delegation to the Olympics being held in the South Korean town of Pyeongchang, they also agreed to hold a joint pre-Olympic cultural performance in the North’s Mount Kumgang resort on Feb. 4.
本月，两国同意朝鲜派代表团参加在韩国平昌举行的奥运会，并于2月4日在朝鲜的金刚山度假胜地举行一场奥运会前的联合文化表演。
But it informed the South on Monday night that it was canceling that program. South Korea had planned to send K-pop bands and other musicians to perform alongside North Korean art troupes at Mount Kumgang.
但朝鲜在周一晚间通知韩国取消该计划。韩国原计划派本国的流行乐队和其他乐手赴金刚山，与朝鲜的艺术团体一起演出。
The North’s sudden decision did not affect its plan to send 22 athletes to the Games or its separate plan to send an art troupe, consisting of a pop orchestra and dancers, to the South to perform before and during the Olympics, which begin on Feb. 8. Still, it showed the unpredictability of the North Korean government.
朝鲜的这项突然决定并没有影响它派出22名运动员参加奥运会的计划，也没有影响它的另一个计划，即派一个由流行乐团和舞蹈演员组成的艺术团前往韩国，在2月8日开始的奥运会之前以及期间演出。不过，该决定仍然反映出朝鲜政府的不可预测性。
“It’s deeply regrettable,” the South Korean government said in a statement on Monday night, urging the North to reconsider its decision.
“这非常令人遗憾，”韩国政府周一晚间发表声明表示。韩国还敦促朝鲜重新考虑这项决定。
In his New Year’s Day speech, the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, proposed sending a delegation to the Pyeongchang Olympics. South Korea, which has called for the North’s participation, welcomed the proposal. In the ensuing dialogue, both sides agreed to march together in the opening ceremony and field a joint team in women’s ice hockey, the first inter-Korean Olympic team ever.
朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在元旦致辞中提议派代表团参加平昌冬奥会。韩国之前一直呼吁朝鲜参加冬奥会，所以对金正恩的这项提议表示欢迎。在随后的对话中，双方同意在开幕式上一起入场，并派出一支女子冰球联队，这将是奥运会史上的第一支朝韩联队。
Those agreements raised the prospect of improving ties between the two Koreas after years of tensions spurred by the North’s nuclear and missile tests. But they were not welcomed by South Koreans as heartily as the two governments had hoped.
朝鲜的核试验和导弹试验造成朝韩两国多年关系紧张，而这些协议提高了两国关系改善的可能性。但韩国民众对这些协议的欢迎程度并不像两国政府期望得那么高。
Recent surveys have shown that many South Koreans are skeptical about forming a joint Olympic team or marching together with North Korea, which has been threatening its neighbors with nuclear weapons. Analysts in the South have also warned that they believe that the North is sending an Olympic delegation in an attempt to create a false mood for dialogue and weaken international resolve to enforce sanctions against the country.
最近的调查显示，许多韩国人对组建奥运联队或与朝鲜一起入场持怀疑态度，因为朝鲜一直在用核武器威胁邻国。韩国的分析人士也警告称，他们认为朝鲜派遣奥运代表团是为了制造一种虚假的对话氛围，削弱国际社会对朝鲜实施制裁的决心。
After an advance team returned from the North Korean resort last week, South Korean officials said they might have to generate their own electricity for the music performances there because of the North’s poor energy supply. But conservative South Korean news media outlets said that taking fuel oil to Mount Kumgang might violate United Nations sanctions.
上周，韩国的先遣队从朝鲜的金刚山度假胜地返回后，韩国官员表示，由于朝鲜能源供应不足，韩国可能得自己为在那里的音乐表演发电。但韩国保守派新闻媒体表示，往金刚山运送燃油可能会违反联合国的制裁决议。
North Korea agreed to send its Olympic delegation only after the South suggested that it would postpone its joint annual military exercises with the United States during the Olympics. But South Koreans have learned in the past week that the North was preparing for a major military parade on the eve of the South’s Olympics.
朝鲜是在韩国提出愿意推迟奥运会期间举行的年度韩美联合军演后，才同意派出奥运代表团的。但在过去一周里，韩国得知，朝鲜正在准备在韩国奥运会前夕举行一次大型阅兵式。
In what appeared to be a reference to the military parade, North Korea said Monday that it was also insulted by South Korean news media’s criticism of its “internal celebration,” South Korean officials said. Last week, North Korea designated Feb. 8 as the new anniversary of its military and said it would mark the day with various celebrations.
韩国官员称，朝鲜周一表示，韩国新闻媒体对朝鲜“内部庆祝”的批评也令朝鲜感到羞辱——“内部庆祝”似乎指的是阅兵活动。上周，朝鲜将2月8日定为其军队的新纪念日，并表示将以各种庆祝活动纪念这一天。
Earlier this month, North Korea canceled its plan to send an advance team to inspect South Korean concert halls where its art troupe will perform. But it later reversed that decision and the North Korean team, headed by a well-known singer, visited the South a day later than scheduled, setting off a media frenzy here.
本月早些时候，朝鲜取消了派先遣队考察朝鲜艺术团将进行表演的韩国音乐厅的计划。但后来它改变了这项决定，一位著名歌手率领的朝鲜先遣队比原定时间晚一天访问了韩国，引发了韩国媒体的狂热报道。