He searched for oil in the badlands of Somalia and fueled a stock market boom in Mongolia. He sued the world’s smallest republic, far out in the Pacific, for a chunk of what it is worth.
他在索马里贫瘠的土地上寻找石油，助推蒙古股票市场一路飘红。他对远在太平洋上的、世界上面积最小的共和国提起诉讼，要求相当于整个国家价值一大块的赔偿。
Now, he is betting on North Korea.
现在，他正下注于朝鲜。
James Passin, a hedge fund manager at Firebird Management, believes the nuclear-armed country sits on as much as a billion barrels of crude — enough to make it as big a producer as Oklahoma. If the oil exists, he wants to help unlock it.
火鸟管理投资公司(Firebird Management)的对冲基金经理詹姆斯·帕辛(James Passin)认为，这个核武国家拥有可以生产10亿桶原油的石油储量，足以让它成为像俄克拉荷马州那么重要的石油产地。如果这一储量确凿，他想帮助释放它的价值。
“You have a country with 25 million people — young, highly disciplined, literate — and a strong military-industrial complex,” he said in an interview. “It’s possible that the early investors will be rewarded with potential for massive appreciation.”
“这是一个有2500万人口的国家，民众年轻、高度自律，且受过教育，它还有强大的军事工业，”他在接受采访时说道。“早期投资者有可能因其巨大的增值潜力而获得巨额回报。”
The risks of sinking cash — even just $7 million or so of Firebird’s $700 million in assets — into a neo-Stalinist state with labor camps and virtually no private property are obvious. The geopolitical volatility was on full display last week, as North Korea claimed that it had tested a hydrogen bomb. And Mr. Passin is treading on murky investment territory, given the American sanctions against the country.
将资金下注于一个有劳改营但几乎没有私人财产的新斯大林主义国家，其风险是显而易见的，哪怕只是将火鸟的7亿美元资产中的大约700万美元投注于此。上周，朝鲜称自己成功试爆了一枚氢弹，该地区的地缘政治不稳定性由此得到充分展示。考虑到美国可能会对朝鲜采取的制裁，帕辛正在踏入一片前景不明的投资领域。
His investors have experienced the wild rides that come with such frontier markets. Two of his funds are being liquidated after deep losses, including on banking in Iraq, gold in Armenia and oil and gas in Kenya.
他的投资者已经见识过因投资于这样的前沿市场而带来的剧烈起伏。他有两支基金因遭遇惨重损失正被清盘，其中包括对伊拉克银行业，亚美尼亚金矿和肯尼亚石油、天然气的投资。
But Mr. Passin isn’t deterred. “I see opportunities when other people are afraid,” he said.
但帕辛没有因此退却。“其他人感到害怕的时候，我看到的是机会，”他说。
Mr. Passin, 44, studied philosophy at St. John’s College in Maryland. He was inspired to enter finance, he said, in part by the story of Thales, a philosopher in ancient Greece who got rich by monopolizing olive presses before a bumper harvest he had foreseen in the stars.
现年44岁的帕辛曾在马里兰州圣约翰学院(St. John’s College)研修哲学。他说自己之所以进入金融领域，部分原因是受到古希腊哲学家泰勒斯(Thales)的启发。泰勒斯通过观察星象，预见来年橄榄要大丰收，便提前预租、垄断了所在地区的橄榄榨油作坊，由此获得巨大财富。
Contrarian instincts have led Mr. Passin to out-of-the-way markets like Chechnya, Congo and Somalia.
逆向投资的直觉让帕辛把目光投注于车臣、刚果和索马里等少有人问津的市场。
Joseph Naemi, one of Mr. Passin’s longtime business partners, recalled joining him in a brash attempt in 2002 to buy Uzbekistan’s national oil company, Uzbekneftegaz. They had a meeting with a dozen Uzbek government officials, and Mr. Passin’s pitch was simple: He was there to write a check for $600 million to $700 million to buy the entire company. But the country did not go for the proposal.
据帕辛长期的生意伙伴之一约瑟夫·纳埃米(Joseph Naemi)回忆，2002年他和帕辛一起进行投资，雄心勃勃地要收购乌兹别克斯坦国家石油天然气公司Uzbekneftegaz。他们和十多位乌兹别克斯坦政府官员进行会面，帕辛的提案非常简单：写一张六七亿美元的支票，表示要买下整个公司。但乌兹别克斯坦没有接受这个提议。
“The skeptical look around the boardroom was actually hilarious,” Mr. Naemi wrote in an email.
“整个会议室都是那种将信将疑的表情，实际上还挺滑稽，”纳埃米在一封邮件中写道。
In 2006, Mr. Passin toured Mongolia and zeroed in on its stock exchange. It was “just a room with some computers,” Mr. Passin recalled.
2006年，帕辛到蒙古转了一圈，然后就把投资方向瞄准了蒙古证券交易所。其实“就是个放了几台电脑的屋子，”帕辛回忆道。
He said he snapped up shares in “anything that was listed.” By 2011, the country’s economy was clocking one of the fastest growth rates in the world — 17 percent a year — as vast troves of minerals were discovered under the steppes.
他说自己一口气买下“那里上市的所有公司”的股票。随着蒙古草原地下的巨大矿物储量被探明，该国经济经济增长率迅速飙升，至2011年达到17%，是全球最高的国家之一。
Since then, Mongolia’s bull market has crashed, Mr. Passin said, and the economy has slowed. But he is redoubling his efforts there, aiming to construct a set of world-class Mongolian corporations — a project he has broadly likened to the empire-building of Genghis Khan.
帕辛表示，自那之后，蒙古的牛市结束，经济发展开始放缓。但他还在加大对蒙古的投资，目标是要创建一些世界级的蒙古大企业，他宽泛地做比，将之与成吉思汗建立的蒙古帝国相提并论。
Mr. Passin is also wagering on distressed debt in the South Pacific. Firebird has been suing the tiny, destitute island nation of Nauru for repayment on about $24 million of defaulted government-backed bonds, equal to about one-sixth the country’s gross domestic product.
帕辛也在押注南太平洋的不良债务。火鸟正对一穷二白的小小岛国瑙鲁提起诉讼，要求它偿还由政府担保的价值约2400万美元的违约贷款，这相当于瑙鲁国民生产总值的大约六分之一。
Firebird, which bought the bonds from the original creditors at a fraction of their face value, stands to make money if it wins. The hedge fund has been fighting in Australian courts to garnish Nauru’s state bank accounts — and briefly succeeded in freezing the accounts.
火鸟从原先的债权人那里以相对于票面价值极其低廉的成本买下这些债权，如果它赢得诉讼，让对方偿还贷款，就可以赚不少钱。该对冲基金一直在澳大利亚法庭上竭力争取，要求法院扣押瑙鲁国有银行一些账户的资产，并曾在短时间内成功冻结了这些账户。
“We will go to every corner of the world to find assets,” he said.
“我会走遍全世界各个角落，搜寻有价值的资产，”他说。
Mr. Passin’s North Korean investments may be his most contentious.
帕辛对朝鲜的投资大概是他的投资项目中最具争议性的一个。
Firebird owns nearly half of a Mongolian company, HBOil, which entered a joint venture with the government of Kim Jong-un in 2013. The partnership gave the small company expansive rights to overhaul North Korea’s primitive energy sector by opening 100 gas stations, restarting a derelict refinery and drilling for oil and gas.
火鸟拥有蒙古公司HBOil近一半的股份，后者在2013年与金正恩的政府成立了一家合资企业。这种合作关系赋予了这家小公司广泛权力，去整改朝鲜的能源部门：在该国开设100个加油站、重新启用一家荒废的炼油厂，并去开采石油和天然气。
The projects have yet to materialize. Companies have been searching for oil and gas there since the 1980s, and it remains unclear whether the country has any significant quantities.
这个项目目前还没有真正实施。自1980年代起，就有公司一直在朝鲜探测石油和天然气储藏，但目前还不能确定该国是否有够大的储量。
Mr. Naemi, who is advising HBOil, believes there are deep reserves of oil — perhaps as much as a billion recoverable barrels on land. But the current low price of oil means that if it exists, and can be extracted, it still might not be profitable.
给HBOil公司提供咨询服务的纳埃米表示，他相信那里有相当多的石油储量——或许足以开采出10亿桶原油。但目前油价比较低，这意味着就算它真的存在，而且能被开采出来，可能也赚不了钱。
Mr. Passin’s investment also raises legal questions. Alexandra López-Casero, a sanctions lawyer at the Boston-based law firm Nixon Peabody, said the investment might violate American sanctions against North Korea absent a license from the Treasury Department in Washington. Other experts disagree, noting that the United States has not issued a blanket prohibition on investing in the North.
帕辛的这项投资还有一些法律方面的问题。总部位于波士顿的律所尼克松-皮博迪(Nixon Peabody)处理制裁案件的律师亚历山大·洛佩斯-卡塞罗(Alexandra López-Casero)表示，这项投资可能违反了美国对朝鲜的制裁，因为它没有获得美国财政部的许可。有些专家不同意这种观点，他们指出，美国并没有全面禁止针对朝鲜的投资。
Mr. Passin said that Firebird had neither sought such a license nor needed one. He added that an expert had reviewed the venture for him and concluded that it was legal.
帕辛表示，火鸟不需要，也不会申请这样的许可。他还表示，一名专家已经帮他评估了这个合资企业，结果认为它是合法的。
Some analysts worry that any oil exploitation would fortify Mr. Kim and others in the country’s ruling elite. “The security risk is not small, as the oil business in D.P.R.K. is exclusively handled by the Communist Party and the military,” said Keun-Wook Paik, an expert on North Korean oil at the research institution Chatham House, using the abbreviation for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the country’s official name. “It will be a kind of Pandora box opening.”
一些分析人士担忧，在朝鲜进行石油开发可能会增强金正恩及该国其他统治精英的力量。“其中的安全风险可不小，因为朝鲜的石油生意都是由该国共产党（即劳动党——译注）和军队垄断经营，”研究机构皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的朝鲜石油问题专家白均旭(Keun-Wook Paik)说。“这就像打开了一个潘多拉盒子。”
Mr. Passin dismisses such concerns.
帕辛没有这样的顾虑。
He said business with North Korea would both benefit ordinary people and encourage the totalitarian state apparatus to become “more open and less harsh.” Besides, he argued, if the West avoided commerce with unsavory nations, much of the world would be off limits.
他表示，与朝鲜做生意不仅能惠及普通朝鲜人，还能鼓励这个极权国家政府变得“更加开放，不那么严苛。”他还表示，如果西方避免和所有不受其欢迎的国家做生意，世界大部分地区都成禁区了。
“I believe there are companies that will emerge out of the D.P.R.K. that will be of lasting importance,” he said. “That will survive for centuries.”
“我相信朝鲜会出现一批企业，它们会长期扮演重要角色，”他说。“而且会持续存在好几个世纪。”