For years, North and South Korea have hurled invective at each other that would do Shakespearean characters proud.
多年来，朝鲜和韩国一直恶言相向，这样的谩骂足以为莎士比亚笔下的人物增色。
The North’s insults usually follow an anti-imperialist line — “American puppets” is a favorite — though “traitors” and “running dogs” are also usual fare. And then there was the personal insult last year against Park Geun-hye, the South’s first female president, with a reference to the “venomous swish” of her skirt.
朝鲜的辱骂通常遵循反帝国主义的思路，最喜欢使用的是“美国傀儡”一词，尽管也经常使用“叛徒”和“走狗”。去年还出现了针对韩国首位女总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的人身攻击，称她的裙子掀起了“妖风”。
The South’s oratory is usually less strident, but conservative activists in the rollicking democracy have been known to pick up the slack, railing in public against the man many in North Korea see as a godlike figure, calling the young leader, Kim Jong-un, a diabolical tyrant, “a little pig” and “an immoral brat.” Then they burned him in effigy.
韩国的言辞通常没那么刺耳，但众所周知，这个喧闹民主国家中的保守派活动人士已经用上了谩骂的套路，公开抨击被很多朝鲜人视作神明的人物，称年轻的朝鲜领导人金正恩( Kim Jong-un)为残忍的暴君、“小猪”和“邪恶小子”。他们还焚烧了金正恩的画像。
Now, North Korea has made what it called an “important proposal,” suggesting on Thursday an end to the mudslinging as a way to smooth over relations that reached a particular low last year. The North also held out a carrot, saying it would begin unspecified steps to help ease military tensions along the disputed western sea border, the scene of military clashes in recent years.
如今，朝鲜已经提出了它所谓的“重要提议”。周四，朝鲜建议结束诋毁行为，以便缓和于去年陷入谷底的朝韩关系。朝鲜还拿出了胡萝卜，称该国将开始采取一些未详细说明的举措，帮助缓解存在争议的西海边界沿线的军事紧张局势。最近几年，那里多次爆发军事冲突。
But the North’s proposals were tied to another request that the South has already called an impossibility: the cancellation of United States-South Korea military exercises. The White House quickly rebuffed the request, and South Korean officials have said such regular exercises will continue so long as the nuclear-armed North poses a threat.
但是，朝鲜的提议附带着一个要求，即取消美韩军事演习，而韩国已经表示这不可能。白宫立即回绝了朝鲜的要求，韩国官员也表示，只要拥有核武器的朝鲜对他们构成威胁，他们就会继续开展此类演习。
Still, the latest overture is notable for its timing, coming as both halves of the divided peninsula appear to be trying to reach out again to each other, even if halfheartedly, and as the North seems to feel especially touchy over portrayals of its 31-year-old leader.
尽管如此，朝鲜最新示好举动的时机仍然值得我们注意。目前，这个分裂半岛上的两个国家似乎都在尝试与对方交流，尽管双方都不积极，此外，朝鲜似乎对其31岁领导人的画像遭到焚烧一事感到特别愤怒。
Mr. Kim has taken something of a beating in the world news media in recent weeks after executing his uncle in what intelligence officials outside the country saw as a power struggle. The North indicated that what it considered the South Korean news media’s poor treatment of Mr. Kim was one reason for rejecting an offer by Ms. Park last week to resume reunions of families separated by the Korean War.
最近几周，在处死自己的姑父之后，金正恩成为了全球新闻媒体的打击对象。外国情报官员认为，他处死姑父一事是一场权力斗争。上周，朴槿惠曾提议重启朝鲜战争失散家庭的团聚活动。朝鲜表示，韩国媒体对金正恩的恶意报道是朝鲜拒绝朴槿惠提议的原因之一。
The proposal by the North might also have been a reference to the balloons regularly launched into its territory by South Korea carrying messages denouncing North Korea’s leader as a brutal dictator and human rights abuser. Anti-North activists in the South, many of them defectors, sent a barrage of balloons across the border this week.
朝鲜的提议可能还和韩国定期放飞到朝鲜领土上的气球有关，那些气球携有谴责朝鲜领导人是残暴独裁者和人权践踏者的讯息。本周，韩国的反朝鲜活动人士又将大量气球放飞到了边界的另一边，这些活动人士中有许多都是脱北者。
The proposal for less belligerency is not a new one, and at least once it proved to be a winner. As part of an agreement struck during their first summit meeting in 2000, the two Koreas declared a cease-fire in their decades-old propaganda war along the border. They dismantled billboards and switched off the batteries of loudspeakers along their 155-mile-long frontier.
减少诽谤中伤的提议不是什么新鲜事，而且，事实证明，这样的提议至少成功过一次。朝韩两国于2000年举行了首次峰会，按照峰会期间达成的一项协议的规定，两国宣布停止在边境沿线地区进行了几十年的宣传战。朝韩两国均拆除了155英里（约合250公里）长的边界线附近的告示牌，关闭了喇叭的电源。
Until then, shrill voices had drifted across the demilitarized zone day and night. Those from the North condemned a “U.S. colony” in the South. Those from the South talked of a “medieval fiefdom” in the North. South Korean Army veterans remember a female voice urging them to “Come to the Socialist paradise! It’s only five minutes on the run.”
在那之前，非军事区不分昼夜地飘荡着刺耳的声音。来自朝鲜的声音谴责韩国是“美国的殖民地”。来自韩国的声音则称朝鲜是“中世纪封建国家”。韩国老兵至今都还记得，一个女声号召他们“来社会主义天堂吧！跑过来只需五分钟”。
The South bombarded North Korean soldiers with pop music and news about the booming South’s latest per capita income. South Korean announcers urged North Korean soldiers to think over why their leader at the time, Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, was portly while the rest of the population was starving.
韩国用流行音乐和介绍韩国人均收入节节高涨的新闻轰炸朝鲜士兵。韩国播音员敦促朝鲜士兵好好想想，为什么他们的领袖大腹便便，其他人却在忍饥挨饿。那时，朝鲜的领导人还是金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)。
In a sign of the worsening of relations in recent years, though, the South has remained wary of any new conciliatory gestures by the North. Just last year, Mr. Kim proposed better relations. Then he tested a nuclear weapon in defiance of the world.
然而，韩国对朝鲜的一切和解姿态都保持警惕，这种态度体现着两国近年来日益恶化的关系。就在去年，金正恩还曾提议改善两国关系，然而，他随后就不顾全世界的反对进行了核试验。