SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Monday that it had cut off its only official channel of diplomatic communications with the United States in retaliation for Washington’s sanctions against its leader, Kim Jong-un, over human rights abuses.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周一表示，为了报复美国因人权问题制裁该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，朝鲜已切断了与美国进行外交沟通的唯一官方渠道。
The North’s diplomatic mission to the United Nations in New York notified the United States government of its decision on Sunday to sever the channel, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said.
据该国官方的朝鲜中央通信社报道，朝鲜驻纽约联合国总部的外交使团周日已将切断外交渠道的决定通知了美国政府。
Although the two countries have no diplomatic ties, the United Nations mission has long served as a point of contact and was often used to arrange talks aimed at ending the North’s nuclear weapons program.
尽管朝鲜与美国之间没有外交关系，但长期以来，朝鲜驻联合国代表团一直起着联络点的作用，旨在结束朝鲜核武器计划的谈判也经常通过这个渠道来安排。
“Because the United States did not accept our demand that the sanctions be retracted, we are taking concrete actions one by one, the first of which is to completely cut off the New York channel of communication, the only official point of contact that has existed between the two sides,” K.C.N.A. said, citing the notice.
“若美国拒不接受朝鲜关于立即取消制裁措施的要求，那么将按照已经阐明的立场逐步采取相应的实质性行动措施。作为第一步，完全关闭朝美之间唯一存在的正式接触渠道——纽约朝美接触渠道，”朝中社援引通知报道称。
North Korea also said that it would now treat all issues with the United States, including the handling of two Americans held in the North, under its wartime law.
朝鲜还表示，从现在起，将依据战时法律来处理所有涉及美国的事务，包括如何处置被朝鲜关押的两名美国人。
It did not elaborate on how its decision would affect the fate of Kim Dong-chul, a Korean-born American citizen who was sentenced to 10 years of hard labor in April after being convicted of spying and other offenses. Another American, Otto F. Warmbier, is serving 15 years of hard labor for trying to steal a political banner from his hotel in Pyongyang, the capital.
朝鲜没有详细阐述这一决定将如何影响金东哲(Kim Dong-chul)的命运。金东哲是出生于韩国的美国公民，他被判犯有间谍罪和其他罪行，于今年4月被判处10年劳教。另一位美国人是奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)，他被判处15年劳教，罪名是试图从平壤的酒店偷走一幅政治标语。
On Wednesday, the United States placed sanctions on Mr. Kim for the first time, accusing him of human rights abuses. It also blacklisted other top officials in North Korea, as well as the intelligence and security ministries there, over abuses including extrajudicial killings, forced labor and torture.
上周三，美国首次对金正恩个人实施制裁，指控金正恩践踏人权。美国也因包括法外处决、强迫劳动和酷刑等虐待问题，将其他一些朝鲜高级官员、以及该国的情报和安全部门列入了黑名单。
North Korea has called the sanctions “an open declaration of war” and warned of retaliation.
朝鲜称这种制裁是“公然宣战”，并警告要予以报复。
North Korea is already under heavy sanctions for its nuclear and ballistic missile tests. But by singling out Mr. Kim, its 32-year-old leader, Washington sought to use pressure over human rights as leverage. The North is especially sensitive about outside criticism of its leader, who rules by a personality cult.
朝鲜已经因其核武器和弹道导弹试验受到国际社会的严厉制裁。但是，华盛顿针对朝鲜32岁领导人金正恩个人的做法，是试图把人权问题作为施加压力的杠杆。朝鲜对针对其领导人的批评特别敏感，因为金正恩的统治靠的是个人崇拜。
Earlier Monday, North Korea threatened an unspecified “physical counteraction” once the United States and South Korea decided upon a site in the South where an advanced American missile defense system would be deployed.
周一早些时候，朝鲜还威胁，一旦美国和韩国选择好了在韩国部署先进的美国导弹防御系统的地点，朝鲜将进行“实际的反击”。
The warning from the North Korean military, carried by K.C.N.A., was its first reaction since South Korea and the United States announced an agreement on Friday to deploy the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, system in the South.
朝鲜军方通过朝中社发出的这个警告，是自韩国和美国上周五宣布就部署末段高空区域防御系统（Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”）达成协议后，朝鲜首次作出回应。
The allies said the deployment was to better protect South Korea and the United States military in the region from the North’s growing nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities. Officials were expected to reveal the site for a Thaad base this year.
协议双方表示，部署“萨德”是为了在朝鲜日益增长的核武器和导弹能力的情况下，在该地区更好地保护韩国和美国的部队。预计官员将在今年宣布部署“萨德”的基地。
On Monday, North Korea said that the rationale to deploy Thaad was “absurd,” adding that all its military weapons, including an intermediate-range ballistic missile it tested last month, were for “self-defense.”
周一，朝鲜表示部署“萨德”的理由是"荒唐的"，该国所有的军事武器，包括它上月测试的中程弹道导弹，均以“自卫”为目的。
North Korea “will take a physical counteraction to thoroughly control Thaad,” the military said in its statement, which characterized the system’s deployment part of an American plan for “world domination.” In addition, the military vowed to act against the system “from the moment its location and place have been confirmed in South Korea.”
朝鲜军方在其声明中称，该系统的部署是美国“称霸世界”计划的一部分，朝鲜“将实行物理性应对措施彻底予以压制”。此外，军方还承诺，从该系统“在南朝鲜部署的位置和场所被确定的时刻起”，就采取反制行动。
The statement did not elaborate. But it also said that the North had long placed South Korea and American military bases in the region under the range of its missiles and rockets.
文中没有提及细节，但声称朝鲜导弹和火箭的射程范围早已覆盖了韩国和美国的军事基地。
American and South Korean defense officials viewed the test of the North’s Musudan missile last month as the latest proof that the country was developing a capability to strike American military bases in the Pacific, including those on Guam, a major launching pad for American reinforcements should a conflict break out on the Korean Peninsula or elsewhere in the region.
美韩两国的国防官员认为，朝鲜上月测试的“舞水端”导弹(Musudan)，是该国正在研发打击美国在太平洋地区的军事基地的最新证明，关岛军事基地就是其中之一。如果朝鲜半岛或该地区其他地方爆发军事冲突，美国增援部队的一个主要跳板就是关岛。
On Monday, North Korea said the Thaad deployment was part of the United States’ plan to build “an Asian version of NATO” to check China and Russia and secure military hegemony in the region. It also said that the deployment would place South Korea deeper under the Americans’ “military dominion.”
周一的时候，朝鲜表示“萨德”的部署是美国打造“亚洲版北约”计划的一部分，意图以此钳制中国和俄罗斯，并掌握该地区的军事霸权。它还称，此举将把韩国进一步置于美国人的“军事支配”之下。
South Korea and the United States insisted that Thaad was solely to protect their forces from North Korea. But China and Russia have opposed its deployment, seeing it as a threat to their own security.
韩国和美国坚称“萨德”只是为了保护他们的部队免受朝鲜攻击。然而，中国和俄罗斯对“萨德”的部署持反对态度，将此举视为对本国安全的威胁。
Analysts said that the deployment would make China value North Korea’s role in countering United States influence in the region and become less cooperative in enforcing United Nations sanctions against its neighbor.
分析人士称，“萨德”的部署会令中国重视朝鲜制衡美国在该地区影响力的价值，而且在联合国制裁朝鲜的问题上采取不那么合作的态度。
North Korea test-fired a submarine-launched ballistic missile on Saturday, although the South characterized it as a failure. The country also conducted its fourth nuclear test on Jan. 6 and followed up a month later with the launch of a long-range rocket, widely considered as part of its program to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile.
朝鲜上周六试射了一枚潜射弹道导弹，不过韩国称试射失败。朝鲜于今年1月6日进行了第四次核试验，一个月后又发射了一枚远程火箭，被外界广泛视为该国开发洲际弹道导弹计划的一部分。