SEOUL, South Korea — After years of trying to separate fact from propaganda about North Korea’s nuclear program, American and South Korean intelligence officials say they have concluded that the country can now mount a small nuclear warhead on short- and medium-range missiles capable of hitting much of Japan and South Korea.
韩国首尔——在试图从有关朝鲜核计划的宣传中寻找事实方面进行了多年努力之后，美国和韩国情报官员说，他们已经得出结论，朝鲜目前具有将小型核弹头装载在短程和中程导弹上，打击韩国和日本大片地区的能力。
The United States and its allies have sought for nearly a decade to prevent the North from gaining such capabilities, ever since it detonated its first atomic device a decade ago. Their failure is likely to raise new questions about the effectiveness of the policy toward North Korea, while ushering the long-simmering nuclear standoff with the North into a more perilous phase under its combative young leader, Kim Jong-un.
美国及其盟国寻求防止朝鲜获得这种能力已经快10年了，这种努力是10年前朝鲜引爆了第一颗原子弹装置之后开始的。它们的失败很可能会让人们对政府朝鲜政策的有效性产生新质疑，同时也会让这些国家与朝鲜的长期核僵局，在朝鲜好斗的年轻领袖金正恩的领导之下，进入一个更危险的阶段。
The assessment of the North’s new capabilities is not based on direct evidence from inside its nuclear program, senior officials said, but draws on intelligence gleaned from high-level defectors, analysis of propaganda images and data collected from North Korean missile and nuclear tests, which have accelerated over the past six months.
高级官员说，对朝鲜的新能力的评估，不是基于来自其核计划内部的直接证据，而是靠来自高层叛逃者的少许情报，以及对宣传图片和搜集到的朝鲜导弹和核试验数据的分析。这类试验在过去的六个月里有所加速。
While some intelligence agencies suggested as early as 2013 that the North had learned enough about rocket engineering and the miniaturization of nuclear warheads to mount one on a shorter-range missile, there is a new consensus and greater confidence in that view in both Washington and Seoul, the officials said.
虽然一些情报机构早在2013年就指出，朝鲜已经掌握了足够多的火箭技术和小型核弹头的知识，可以把一枚小型核弹头安装在较短距离的导弹上，但这些官员说，华盛顿和首尔对上述说法达成了新的共识，也有了更大的把握。
Given the years of research North Korea has devoted to the program, experts do not consider the conclusion particularly surprising. But the politics of the assessment, which means the North can target American bases in South Korea and Japan, are delicate, both in the region and in the midst of a presidential election in the United States.
鉴于朝鲜对其核计划已经投入了多年的研究，专家们并不认为这种结论特别令人惊讶。但新评估的政治意义，无论是对该地区、还是对处于总统大选阶段的美国来说，都很微妙。朝鲜的能力意味着它可以打击在韩国和日本的美军基地。
The Obama administration and the South Korean government are reluctant to discuss the North’s new capabilities publicly. Stung by the fiasco over whether unconventional weapons existed in Iraq 13 years ago, American intelligence officials say they no longer advertise conclusions about other nations’ capabilities, and a senior South Korean government official who described the assessment to foreign reporters insisted on anonymity.
奥巴马政府和韩国政府都不愿意公开讨论朝鲜的新能力。因13年前对伊拉克是否存在非常规武器的判断失误而受到刺痛，美国的情报官员说，他们不再公开发布有关其他国家核能力的结论。一位向外国记者介绍了上述评估的韩国政府高级官员则坚持匿名。
The officials said the public silence reflected an effort to avoid strengthening and encouraging Mr. Kim, who has doubled down on the nuclear program begun by his grandfather and father and has used it to tighten his grip on power. Publicly acknowledging the North’s advances would play into Mr. Kim’s narrative that only he can protect his nation, by defying its enemies and building a nuclear arsenal, the officials said.
这些官员说，不公开结论的做法反映了一种努力，就是要避免让金正恩感到自己很强、还受到激励。金正恩已在其祖父和父亲开始的核计划上做出了加倍的努力，并利用这个项目来加强自己对权力的掌控。官员们说，公开承认朝鲜取得的进步，只会加强金正恩的说法，即只有他才能保护他的国家，他不顾敌对国家的反对，建立了本国的核武库。
Victor Cha, who was a senior official on President George W. Bush’s National Security Council, said American policy had been “concerned about not overreacting to every North Korean provocation, and that made sense when their capabilities were not all that formidable.”
曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)任要职的车维德(Victor Cha)称，美国的政策“一直以来关心的是不要对朝鲜的每一次挑衅反应过激，在他们的实力根本没有那么难对付时，这么做是合理的”。
“But now they have been in a spiral of escalation,” he said, “and we are underreacting when their capabilities are accelerating.”
“但现在，他们一直在不断升级，”他说。“而当他们的实力在增强时，我们的反应却不够有力。”
Park Ji-young, a nuclear policy analyst at the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul, said officials did not want to discuss the North’s new capabilities “because they don’t know exactly how they can stop them, and because they don’t want to scare the people.”
首尔峨山政策研究院(Asan Institute for Policy Studies)的核政策分析人士朴芝暎(Park Ji-young)称，官方不愿讨论朝鲜的能力增长“是因为他们不知道到底该如何阻止他们，也因为他们不想吓到民众”。
A master of bombast, Mr. Kim appears increasingly volatile during his fifth year in power. In a speech on Friday to the first congress of his Workers’ Party in 36 years, he boasted that his nuclear weapons and missile programs brought his country “dignity and national power.”
在执政的第五年里，擅长说大话的金正恩似乎越来越变化无常。周五在自己所在的劳动党36年来首次召开的全国代表大会上发表讲话时，他吹嘘说核武器和导弹计划给他领导的国家带来了“尊严和国家实力”。
A few weeks ago, he posed with what appeared to be a mock-up of a small nuclear warhead, and his government released a video depicting a nuclear strike on the Lincoln Memorial.
几周前，他在一个看上去像是小型核弹头模型的东西旁边拍照，他领导的政府还公布了一段视频，画面上是对林肯纪念堂(Lincoln Memorial)发起的一场核打击。
But experts say North Korea is years away from deploying an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of striking the mainland United States with a nuclear payload, and even then no one sees the backward nation taking the enormous strides needed to build a much more destructive hydrogen warhead, capable of leveling cities.
但专家称，朝鲜还需数年才能部署一枚能够携核弹打击美国本土的洲际弹道导弹，即便到那个时候也很难想象，这个落后的国家能取得如此大的进步，可以制造一枚破坏力大得多、可以将多座城市夷为平地的氢弹头。
Still, the North’s new capabilities have prompted a rethinking of American military strategy in Asia. “We know they have nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them,” Gen. Robert B. Neller, commandant of the Marine Corps, said on Tuesday at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. “If that’s where they are going, that changes the calculus.”
然而，朝鲜最新具备的能力促使美国开始重新思考自己在亚洲的军事战略。“我们知道他们有核武器，也掌握了发射这些武器的方法，”美国海军陆战队司令罗伯特·B·內勒上将(Robert B. Neller)周二在位于纽约的对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)表示。“如果这是他们坚持的方向，那就会改变政策考量。”
For President Obama, who has completed a nuclear deal with Iran and renewed diplomatic relations with Cuba and Myanmar, the advances in North Korea highlight its status as the rogue state that got away.
奥巴马总统与伊朗达成了核协议，并与古巴和缅甸恢复了外交关系。对他而言，朝鲜在核武器方面取得的进步，突显了它作为一个无赖国家的肆意妄为。
Mr. Obama has pursued a policy of “strategic patience” — not overreacting to the North’s missile and nuclear tests, while using sanctions to press it to negotiate. But North Korea has refused to accept his demand that it commit to denuclearization as a goal before talks begin.
奥巴马奉行“战略耐心”策略——不对朝鲜的导弹与核试验做出过激反应，同时利用制裁措施迫使它参与谈判。但朝鲜一直拒绝接受他的要求——先承诺无核化目标，然后才能开启谈判。
Instead, it has accelerated its nuclear effort, conducting tests in 2006, 2009 and 2013, and in January. The two most recent tests took place under Mr. Kim, and South Korean officials say the North may attempt a fifth nuclear test soon, perhaps to mark the party congress.
相反，朝鲜加速研发核武器，先后在2006、2009、2013年和今年1月进行了核试验。其中后两次试验是在金正恩领导下进行的。韩国官员表示，为了庆祝党代会的举行，朝鲜可能很快会进行第五次核试验。
In March, Mr. Kim specified that the next test should involve a “nuclear warhead explosion.” Analysts said that suggested that the North might be on the verge of demonstrating progress in making a smaller device, building on previous tests that were perhaps more focused on the basics of detonation.
今年3月，金正恩特别指示，下一次核试验应涉及“核弹头爆炸”。分析人士表示，这意味着在过去进行的那些或许更侧重基础引爆的试验基础上，朝鲜有可能即将展示自己在制造小型核设备方面取得的进步。
Shrinking a nuclear weapon is important because the smaller it is, the easier it will be for a missile to lift it and the farther the missile can fly. American and South Korean officials said they believed that North Korea could make a nuclear warhead small enough to mount on its midrange Nodong missile, which usually carries a 1,500-pound payload but can carry as much as 2,200 pounds over shorter distances.
缩小核武器的尺寸是很重要的，因为弹头越小，就越容易搭载在导弹上，也能飞得更远。美国和韩国官员表示，他们相信朝鲜可以将核弹头设计得比较小，足以安装到该国的中程“劳动”导弹(Nodong)上。这种导弹通常能搭载1500磅的弹头，但如果缩短射程，则最多可搭载2200磅重的弹头。
“Given the time that has elapsed since its first nuclear test, we believe that North Korea has achieved a significant level of miniaturization,” Han Min-koo, South Korea’s defense minister, said in March. He also noted that North Korea had conducted more missile tests under Mr. Kim than during his father’s entire 17-year rule.
“考虑到自朝鲜进行第一次核试验以来已经过去很长时间，我们相信该国的弹头设计达到了相当高水准的微型化，”韩国国防部长官韩民求(Han Min-koo)今年3月表示。他还指出，金正恩上台后进行的导弹试射，比他父亲执政17年间进行的总次数还要多。
But, Mr. Han said, the North has not mastered the complex technology needed to protect a nuclear warhead from destruction as an intercontinental ballistic missile re-enters the atmosphere.
不过，韩民求也表示，朝鲜还没有掌握保护核弹头在洲际弹道导弹再次进入大气层时不受破坏所需的复杂技术。
Soon after Mr. Kim took power, American satellites began picking up pictures of mobile missile launchers, which are harder to find and to target.
金正恩掌权后不久，美国卫星就开始抓取该国移动导弹发射器的影像。它们更难被发现和定位。
The missile launchers were of Chinese design, and the missiles resembled Russian weaponry. The Nodong, sometimes spelled Rodong, is a modified version of the Scud missile and can reach American bases in Japan. Another missile, the Musudan, can target American bases as far as Guam.
这些发射器出自中国的设计，其导弹则与俄罗斯武器类似。“劳动”导弹（有时也写作“Rodong”）是飞毛腿导弹(Scud)的一种改良版本，射程可达日本境内的美军基地。另一种名为“舞水端”(Musudan)的导弹则可以覆盖美国远在关岛的军事基地。
In April, North Korea tested the Musudan three times, but it crashed into the sea or exploded seconds after takeoff each time. North Korea also has a long record of problems in its effort to develop intercontinental missiles, including an embarrassing failure in April 2012, just months after Mr. Kim took power.
今年4月，朝鲜曾三次试射“舞水端”导弹，但它们不是坠入了大海，就是在发射之后很快就发生了爆炸。此外，在研发洲际导弹方面，朝鲜有一长串出现问题的记录，包括2012年4月一次令人尴尬的失败，当时金正恩刚刚上台几个月。
But there have been enough successes to worry American commanders. In February, North Korea put a satellite in orbit with a three-stage rocket that, if successfully reconfigured as a missile, some analysts believe could reach the West Coast of the United States.
不过，朝鲜取得的成功足以让美军指挥官感到担忧。今年2月，朝鲜通过一枚三级火箭将一颗卫星送入轨道。有些分析人士认为，如果将这种火箭改造成导弹，其射程可达美国西海岸。
A new concern is recent tests of a submarine-launched missile. Deployment is likely to be years away. But submarines could stealthily move missiles within range of additional targets and give the North a “second strike” capability — to launch after its land-based arsenal has been destroyed.
朝鲜近期多次测试潜射导弹，也引发了新的担忧。朝鲜真正部署这类导弹，很可能还需多年时间。但潜水艇可以将导弹悄悄运至距离额外目标在射程范围内的地方，从而让朝鲜具备“二次打击”能力——在陆基导弹被摧毁以后仍可以发射。
North Korea first claimed to have launched a ballistic missile from a submarine a year ago, but photos released of Mr. Kim observing the test appeared to have been doctored. Video released from another test in December suggested that the missile was launched from a sunken barge, not a submarine.
一年前，朝鲜首次声称该国发射了一枚潜射弹道导弹，但它发布的金正恩视察试验的照片似乎是伪造的。后来公布的有关去年12月的另一次试验的视频则显示，导弹可能发射自一艘水下驳船而非潜水艇。
On April 23, North Korea conducted another launch, apparently from a 2,000-ton Sinpo-class submarine. But the missile did not travel far, officials said.
今年4月23日，朝鲜又进行了试射，这次看起来是从一艘2000吨的“新浦”级潜水艇发射的。不过，有官员表示，这枚导弹并没有飞出太远。
John Schilling, an expert on North Korea’s missile program, has estimated that the North may have an operational system by 2020. But its current submarines are old and noisy, must surface frequently and cannot make it across the Pacific to North America.
朝鲜导弹问题专家约翰·席林(John Schilling)估计，朝鲜可能会在2020年前拥有一套作战系统。但它目前的潜水艇比较老旧，噪音大，而且必须频繁露出水面，所以无法穿越太平洋，抵达北美。
The question now, for both President Obama and his successor, is whether to set new red lines beyond which the North Korean nuclear program cannot go — or whether drawing those lines will only encourage the North to step over them, as it has done before.
对于奥巴马总统及其继任者来说，现在的问题是，是否给朝鲜的核计划划定不能逾越的红线——还是说划定这样的界线只会鼓励朝鲜越界，就像它一直所做的那样。
Gary Samore, Mr. Obama’s top nuclear adviser in his first term, said the policy of “strategic patience” had failed to change the North’s calculations. “But that doesn’t mean you just build more missile defenses and walk away,” he said. “We need some kind of process to begin to freeze what they are doing.”
曾在奥巴马第一任期内担任其首席核问题顾问的加里·萨莫雷(Gary Samore)表示，“战略耐心”策略没能改变朝鲜的算盘。“但这并不意味着只要建立更多的导弹防御系统，就可以高枕无忧，”他说。“我们需要采取某种措施，让他们开始停止目前的行为。”
The more progress North Korea makes, though, the less willing it may be to stop.
然而，朝鲜取得的进步越多，就会越发不想停手。
Robert J. Einhorn, a leading expert on proliferation, said a crucial question was whether Mr. Kim would dig in and “refuse to cap their capability before they are able to deliver an ICBM with a warhead to the homeland.”
核扩散研究领域数一数二的专家罗伯特·J·艾因霍恩(Robert J. Einhorn)表示，关键的问题在于金正恩是否会不断推进，是否会“拒绝为它的核计划设限，直至它具备将搭载核弹头的洲际弹道导弹发射到美国本土的能力。”
There are concerns aside from missile capabilities. “Should developing a long-range nuclear missile be the next red line? Or does that make less sense when the North could sell a bomb to a terror group, or put one in a basement in a big city?” asked Sam Nunn, co-chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative.
除了导弹能力，还存在一些别的担忧。“接下来该把研发远程核导弹设为红线吗？还是说，既然朝鲜可以将导弹卖给恐怖组织或将之部署在一座大城市的地下室内，设这样的红线其实说不过去？”核威胁倡议组织(Nuclear Threat Initiative)联合主席萨姆·纳恩(Sam Nunn)发问。
For now, the new American response looks a lot like the old American response, with the same weakness: China’s fear of destabilizing its neighbor with sanctions that hurt too much.
美国目前做出的最新反应看起来和过去的差别不大，都有着同样的弱点：中国担心制裁措施太严厉，会导致邻国局势不稳。
New sanctions enacted with China’s support after the January nuclear test have the potential to bottle up North Korean ships as they visit ports around the world. But the sanctions are difficult to enforce, and there is no requirement to cut off fuel shipments.
今年1月朝鲜再次进行核试验之后，联合国在中国支持下开始对朝鲜实施新的制裁措施，有可能实现阻止朝鲜船只进入世界各地的港口。然而，这些措施执行起来很困难，而且制裁中并没有针对切断燃料输送的要求。