OBERSTDORF, Germany — The next effort to defuse the nuclear brinksmanship over North Korea’s missile and bomb testing may come, not from diplomats, but from a pair of North Korean figure skaters who perform to music by the Beatles.
德国奥伯斯多夫——要平息朝鲜导弹和炸弹测试引发的核边缘政策，下一步努力可能不是来自外交领域，而是来自两个随着披头士的音乐起舞的朝鲜花样滑冰运动员。
An obscure competition on Thursday and Friday here in Bavaria has gained geopolitical urgency as the pairs team of Ryom Tae Ok and Kim Ju Sik seek to become the first North Korean athletes to qualify for the 2018 Winter Olympics in February in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
周四和周五在巴伐利亚州这里举办的一个不起眼的比赛，带有地缘政治上的紧迫性，双人组合廉太钰(Ryom Tae Ok)和金柱希(Kim Ju Sik)试图成为第一对有资格参加2018年2月韩国平昌冬季奥运会的朝鲜运动员。
“We’re aware there is a lot of interest,” Kim Hyon Son, who coaches the pair, said after a training session Wednesday, speaking briefly through an interpreter.
“我们知道大家对我们兴趣很大，”两人的教练金贤炫（Kim Hyon Son，音）在周三的训练课之后通过翻译简短地表示。
Despite the nuclear tests, missile launches and other saber-rattling threats, North Korea has signaled recently that it would consider participating in the Games. Its four-person skating delegation here appears somewhat guarded but approachable and friendly.
尽管进行了核试验和导弹发射，发布了其他军事威胁，朝鲜最近却表示会考虑参加奥运会。其滑冰代表团由4个人组成，在这里他们显得有点心存戒备，但平易近人，举止友善。
And no one would be more relieved by a North Korean triumph of sequins and Salchows this week than the International Olympic Committee and South Korean officials. They have stated adamantly and repeatedly a desire to have North Korea, one of the world’s most isolated countries, compete in what is being promoted as the Games of Peace.
对于朝鲜本周在亮片服装以及后内结环一周跳上的成功，没人会比国际奥委会和韩国官员最感安慰了。他们坚定地、反复地表示，希望让朝鲜这个世界上最孤立无援的国家之一，能够参与这个象征和平的赛事。
While the Olympics have been tainted by staggering costs and endemic corruption, they still strive for the ideal that sport can bring people together even as governments remain hostile and apart.
虽然高昂的成本和普遍存在的腐败行为已经给奥运会沾染上污点，但它仍在努力实现一个理想：即使政府之间存在敌对和分裂，体育运动却能够将人们连接在一起。
At the United Nations last week, Moon Jae-in, the president of South Korea, called North Korea’s aggressive behavior “extremely deplorable.” But he has promoted diplomacy with the North and opposes military action. Moon struck a cautiously hopeful tone at a ceremony to unveil the design of the 2018 Olympic medals at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
上周在联合国，韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)称朝鲜的挑衅行为“应该遭受强烈谴责”。但他支持和朝鲜开展外交活动，反对军事行动。在纽约大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)揭幕的2018年奥运奖牌设计仪式上，文在寅表达了审慎乐观的态度。
South Korea would embark on a “difficult but meaningful challenge” in seeking to have a tranquil Games with North Korea participating, he said in a speech.
他在发言中说，韩国将试图举办一届有朝鲜参与的平静赛事，这是一项“困难但是充满意义的挑战”。
If North Korean athletes fail to qualify, Olympic officials have said they will consider wild-card entries for North Korean athletes to encourage the country to participate. A plan to have a delegation of North Korean athletes and officials march through the demilitarized zone to the Games as a peace gesture remains under consideration.
奥运官员表示，如果朝鲜运动员没有获得参赛资格，那么他们会考虑是否给朝鲜运动员发放参加奥运会的外卡，鼓励该国的参与。还有一个正在考虑的方案是让朝鲜运动员和官员组成的代表团穿过非军事区进入韩国，以表达和平的姿态。
“Tensions are high now, but because of that, peace is all the more needed,” Moon said. “If the two Koreas come together at this point in time, it will become a great opportunity to send a message of reconciliation and peace to the world.”
“目前局势高度紧张，但正因为如此，和平才是最需要的，”文在寅说。“如果两国此刻团结起来，这将成为向全世界传递和解与和平讯号的重要机会。”
He added, “I do not think it is impossible.”
他接着说，“我认为这并非不可能。”
Chang Ung, an IOC delegate from North Korea, told the Olympic committee’s online television channel in mid-September: “I am quite sure that politics is one thing and Olympics is another thing. So I don’t see any big problem for the Pyeongchang Olympics.”
来自朝鲜的国际奥委会代表张雄(Chang Ung)在9月中旬对奥委会的网络电视频道表示：“我相当确定政治是一回事，奥运会是另一会事。因此我觉得平昌奥运会不存在任何大问题。”
The easiest route is for athletes from North Korea to qualify.
最简单的办法是让朝鲜运动员通过选拔赛获得参赛资格。
From mid-June through mid-August, the North Korean pair of Ryom, 18, and Kim, 25, trained in Montreal, refining their attempt to claim one of five Olympic spots available here at this week’s Nebelhorn Trophy competition.
从6月中旬一直到8月中旬，由18岁的廉太钰和25岁的金柱希组成的朝鲜组合一直在蒙特利尔接受训练，提升水平，希望于本周在这里举办的雾迪杯(Nebelhorn Trophy)上获得比赛提供的五个奥运会名额之一。
The skaters, their coach and a North Korean skating official spoke frequently about the Olympics, said Bruno Marcotte, a prominent French Canadian coach who worked with the pair.
和这两名滑冰运动员共事的著名法裔加拿大教练布鲁诺·马科特(Bruno Marcotte)说，廉金二人和他们的教练以及朝鲜一名负责滑冰事务的官员经常谈到奥运会。
“All the time they would ask me: ‘Do you think we have a chance to qualify? Are we good enough? What do we need to qualify?'” Marcotte said of the pair, who aspire to become one of the world’s top 10 teams.
“他们总问我：‘你觉得我们有机会获得参赛资格吗？我们够优秀吗？我们要怎么做才能获得参赛资格？’”马科特提到两名运动员时表示。他们渴望成为世界排名前十的组合。
“They didn’t want to talk about politics,” said Marcotte, who is also here assisting the North Koreans. “It was all about sport and being the first ones in the Olympics and breaking barriers and doing their best.”
“他们不想谈论政治，”也来到这里协助朝鲜运动员的马科特说。“谈的都是体育、首次打进奥运会、有所突破和全力以赴。”
It is a widely held feeling among South Korean politicians and Olympic officials, as well as some international athletes, that the Games would be safer with North Korea’s participation, lessening security concerns and perhaps spurring slow ticket sales.
韩国政界人物和奥运会官员，以及一些国际运动员普遍觉得，有朝鲜参加这届奥运会的话会更安全，这会减少对安全的担忧，或许还会刺激门票销售，一扫当下的低迷。
In that view, Kim Jong Un, the unpredictable North Korean leader, would be less likely to act provocatively if athletes from his country were competing in the Olympics, alongside those of China, North Korea’s benefactor.
这种观点认为，如果自己的国家连同其金主中国的运动员都在参加奥运会比赛，令人捉摸不透的朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)做出挑衅举动的可能性会降低。
“It’s kind of an insurance policy to have them there,” said Ted Ligety, a two-time gold medalist in Alpine skiing from the United States.
“让他们参加奥运会算是一种保险单，”两度夺得高山滑雪金牌的美国运动员特德·利盖蒂(Ted Ligety)说。