TOKYO — Warning of “serious consequences” if the United States retaliates against it over the damaging cyberattack on Sony Pictures, North Korea insisted on Saturday that it was not behind it, and it offered to prove its innocence by taking part in a joint investigation with Washington to identify the hackers.
东京——周六，朝鲜警告，如果美国就索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Picture)遭受的破坏性网络攻击进行报复，会酿成“严重后果”。朝鲜坚称己方不是幕后主使，并表示愿意就此与华盛顿进行联合调查，查明黑客身份，以证明自己的清白。
The message, attributed to an unnamed Foreign Ministry spokesman and carried by North Korea’s state-run news service, appeared to be the secretive government’s response to President Obama’s statement the day before that the United States would take action in response to the hacking, which has shaken one of Hollywood’s largest studios.
朝鲜官方通讯社发出了这一信号，并在文中显示它出自朝鲜外务省一名未具名的发言人之口。这似乎是神秘的朝鲜政府针对奥巴马总统此前一天发表的声明作出的回应。奥巴马在声明中称，美国将采取行动，应对这次撼动了一家好莱坞大型电影公司的黑客行为。
American officials said the hackers’ methods and other clues had led them to conclude that North Korea was behind the attack, which resulted in the posting online of confidential Sony emails and some unreleased movies.
美国官员称，黑客所采取的方式和其他一些线索促使他们断定，朝鲜是这场攻击的幕后主使。此次攻击导致索尼的机密电子邮件和部分尚未发行的电影被发布到了网上。
The cyberattack and emailed threats of attacks against movie theaters prompted Sony to cancel the Christmas release of “The Interview,” a comedy about a plan to assassinate the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. North Korea has previously denied responsibility for the hacking, though it called the attacks a “righteous deed” by its “supporters and sympathizers.”
这场网络攻击，以及通过电子邮件发布的攻击影院的威胁，迫使索尼取消了在圣诞节上映《采访》(The Interview)的计划。这是一部喜剧片，表现的是刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的计划。朝鲜此前已否认自己对这起黑客行为负有责任，但称攻击是其“支持者和同情者”发起的“正义之举”。
It is unlikely that the Obama administration will take the offer of a joint investigation with the North seriously.
对朝鲜提出的与美国展开联合调查的建议，奥巴马政府不大可能当真。
While some computer experts still express doubts that the North was actually behind the attack, American officials said it was similar to what was believed to be a North Korean cyberattack last year on South Korean banks and broadcasters. One key similarity was the fact that the hackers erased data from the computers, something many cyberthieves do not do.
尽管部分计算机专家依然对朝鲜是此次攻击的实际发起者表示怀疑，但美国官员称，去年据信由朝鲜实施的针对韩国银行和广播机构的网络攻击，与这次的情况类似。一个关键的相似之处是，黑客清除了相关计算机上的数据，而许多网络窃贼并不会这么做。
Some American officials have said that North Korea appears to have embraced cyberterrorism as its new weapon of choice for making political points, and that it may be trying to extort new concessions from the United States and its allies.
一些美国官员称，朝鲜似乎已经把网络恐怖主义选作自己表达政治观点的新武器，并且它可能正在尝试逼迫美国及其盟友做出新的让步。
On Saturday, North Korea described the American claims that it was behind the attacks as slander, and warned the United States not to reject its offer of a joint investigation, the statement carried by the state-run Korean Central News Agency said, according to The Associated Press.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)刊登的声明显示，朝鲜周六称，美国关于该国实施了这次网络攻击的说法是诽谤，并警告美国不要拒绝开展联合调查的提议。
It quoted the unidentified spokesman as saying that any joint inquiry would prove that the North was not behind the cyberattack.
朝中社援引未具名的发言人的话报道，只要开展联合调查，就可以证明此次网络攻击与朝鲜无关。
“The U.S. should bear in mind that it will face serious consequences in case it rejects our proposal for joint investigation and presses for what it called countermeasures,” the spokesman said, The A.P. reported.
“美国必须切记，如果拒绝朝鲜的这一建议，执意要对朝鲜找麻烦，议论什么回应措施，那么这可能会酿成严重后果，”美联社的报道援引这名发言人的说。
“We have a way to prove that we have nothing to do with the case without resorting to torture, as what the C.I.A. does,” the statement said.
“朝鲜不用美国中情局(CIA)的酷刑，也有办法证明此案与朝无关，”声明中称。
Mark Stroh, a National Security Council spokesman, reiterated on Saturday the administration’s confidence in evidence the F.B.I. said shows that North Korea was behind the attack on Sony.
国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的发言人马克·斯特罗(Mark Stroh)周六重申，奥巴马政府相信来自联邦调查局(FBI)的证据。该局宣称，证据显示朝鲜要为索尼遭受攻击一事负责。
“We stand by this conclusion,” Mr. Stroh said. “The government of North Korea has a long history of denying responsibility for destructive and provocative actions.”
“我们坚持这个结论，”斯特罗说。“朝鲜政府有着推卸破坏性和挑衅性行为责任的长期历史。”
Mr. Stroh said, “If the North Korean government wants to help, they can admit their culpability and compensate Sony for the damages this attack caused.”
斯特罗还表示，“如果朝鲜政府想要帮忙，他们可以承认自己的责任，为这次攻击造成的损失向索尼提供赔偿。”
The hackers did considerable commercial damage to Sony Pictures; some of the emails that were posted were embarrassing to the studio. The hackers also released detailed breakdowns of executive salaries.
这些黑客让索尼蒙受了相当大的商业损失；一些公之于众的邮件也令公司陷入了尴尬境地。黑客们还公布了索尼高管薪酬的详细构成。