SEOUL, South Korea — In an era of sophisticated spycraft, North Koreaappears to be returning to the days of shortwave radio.
韩国首尔——在间谍技术精密复杂的今天，朝鲜似乎要回到短波无线电的时代。
The North broadcast a series of seemingly random numbers on Pyongyang Radio twice recently, an eerie reminder of the days when the North encrypted messages to its spies in South Korea.
近日朝鲜在“朝鲜之声”广播电台上两次播出了一系列看似随机的数字，让人想起当年朝鲜向散布在韩国的间谍传达加密信息的可怖情景。
In the latest episode last Friday, an announcer read what she described as “a mathematics review assignment for investigative agent No. 27,” engaged in a “distance learning” program.
最近一次播音发生在上周五。当时，播音员称自己朗读的是参加一个“远程学习”课程的“27号调查员的数学复习作业”。
“Turn to Page 459, No. 35; Page 913, No. 55; Page 135, No. 86,” she said, continuing to cite numbers for 14 minutes.
她说，“翻到459页，第35题；913页，第55题；135页，第86题，”就这样念了14分钟的数字。
Decades ago, it was not unusual for late-night radio listeners in the South to hear mysterious numbers arriving on static-filled signals from the North. The South Korean government in Seoul tried to block the signals and barred its citizens from listening.
几十年前，韩国人在深夜听收音机时经常能听到神秘数字，它们是通过充满静电干扰的信号从朝鲜发来的。位于首尔的韩国政府曾试图屏蔽那些信号，并禁止民众收听相关内容。
Kim Dong-sik, a former intelligence officer for North Korea, said he used to listen for such broadcasts at midnight each night to check whether his spymasters had a message for him. Mr. Kim was caught by the South in 1995 after a gun battle with South Korean agents and police officers.
前朝鲜情报人员金东植（Kim Dong-sik，音译）称，他过去常常在每天午夜收听这种广播，以确定他的间谍上级是否给他发送了消息。金东植是在1995年与韩国特工和警察进行了一场枪战后被抓捕的。
“When I arrived in the South, I had five different call signs assigned to me,” said Mr. Kim, who now works as a senior analyst at the Institute for National Security Strategy, a think tank run by South Korea’s National Intelligence Service. “Each night, I listened for my call signs.”
“到韩国时，分给我了五个不同的代号，”现在韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)下属智库国家安全战略研究所(Institute for National Security Strategy)担任高级分析师的金东植说。“每天晚上，我都会听广播，看有没有我的代号。”
The June 24 and July 15 broadcasts, confirmed by the South Korean government on Wednesday, were the first such coded messages in 16 years, leaving intelligence officials and analysts puzzled by the North’s motives.
韩国政府于周三证实了6月24日和7月15日的广播。它们是16年来的首批加密信息。情报官员和分析人士对朝鲜的动机感到困惑。
The broadcasts come amid concerns about the North, which has raised tension with the United States and its allies by conducting a series of missile tests and has issued bold claims of advances in its quest for a nuclear-tipped long-range missile.
在出现这些广播的同时，有关朝鲜的担忧正与日俱增。该国的一系列导弹试验导致它与美国及其盟友的紧张关系升级。它还大胆宣称自己在可携带核弹头的远程导弹研发上取得了进展。
North Korea has reacted strongly to a plan by the United States to deploy an advanced missile defense system in the South. This week, it fired three ballistic missiles, saying that they were used in simulated tests to detonate nuclear warheads over seaports and airfields in the South, where American reinforcements are supposed to arrive in the event of a war.
对于美国在韩国部署先进的导弹防御系统的计划，朝鲜反应激烈。本周，朝鲜连发三枚弹道导弹，称它们在模拟试验中被用于在韩国的海港和机场上空引爆核弹头，也就是一旦发生战争，美国的增援力量会抵达的地方。
The tests defied a new round of sanctions that the United Nations Security Council imposed against the North after a nuclear test in January and a long-range rocket launch in February.
朝鲜的这些试验违反了联合国安理会的新一轮制裁。安理会是在朝鲜1月进行了一场核试验，2月又试射了一枚远程火箭后，采取了这些制裁措施。
Jeong Joon-hee, a government spokesman for South Korea, has called the resumption of the broadcasts “seriously regrettable” but declined to comment on any motives. “The North should abandon its old ways,” he said.
韩国政府发言人郑俊熙(Jeong Joon-hee)对朝鲜恢复广播的做法“深感遗憾”，但拒绝就任何动机发表评论。“朝鲜应该放弃老路子，”他说。
South Korea itself has resorted to old-school propaganda in recent years, resuming loudspeaker and radio broadcasts into the North and juicing them up with synthesized Korean music known as K-pop.
近年来，韩国自己也诉诸老派宣传手段，恢复面向朝鲜的喇叭广播和无线电广播，并用被称为K-pop的韩国融合音乐来增加趣味。
Some analysts said the North’s use of a bygone encryption tool was rekindling old fear among South Koreans of an escalation in psychological warfare. North Korea stopped sending out such coded messages by shortwave radio after the Koreas held a summit meeting in 2000, agreeing to de-escalate the Cold War-era intrigue on the divided peninsula.
一些分析人士称，朝鲜使用很久以前的加密工具，重新点燃了韩国民众对两国心理战升级的担心。2000年，韩朝两国举行夏季峰会，同意缓解处于分裂状态的朝鲜半岛的冷战气氛。之后，朝鲜停止用短波无线电发出这类经过编码的信息。
Since then, the North is believed to have adopted more sophisticated methods of communication. When the South’s intelligence service announced the capture of a spy ring in 2011, it said that the officers contacted the North through steganography, a technique for encrypting a message into a text, image or video file delivered online.
自那以后，朝鲜被认为采用了更精密的通讯方式。2011年，韩国情报机构宣布抓获一个间谍团伙，称相关人员通过隐写术与朝鲜联系。隐写术是一种将信息加密成在线发送的文本、图像或视频文件的技术。
Mr. Kim, the analyst and former spy, said the broadcasts should be taken seriously. He said the North appeared to be bolstering its espionage operations since 2009, when it created the General Bureau of Reconnaissance by merging various party and military agencies in charge of sending spies to the South.
前述分析师、前间谍金东植表示，应该重视朝鲜的广播内容。他说，朝鲜似乎从2009年开始加强其间谍行动。那一年，朝鲜通过合并党内和军队内部的各机构，成立侦查总局(Reconnaissance General Bureau)，负责向韩国派送间谍。
Washington blacklisted the bureau after North Korean hackers were accused of wreaking havoc on the computer network of Sony’s movie studio in 2014.
2014年朝鲜黑客被指给索尼电影制片厂造成了严重破坏，此后美国将朝鲜侦查总局列入了黑名单。
At a time when the counterintelligence authorities use sophisticated technology to monitor the digital communication of espionage suspects, “the old number broadcasts are still a dependable and preferable means of communication for spies,” Mr. Kim said.
如今反间谍机构会使用尖端技术对疑似间谍的数码通讯进行监听，但“广播数字的老式做法，对间谍来说依然是一种可靠、可取的通讯方式”，金东植说。
“We should assume that the North is using the radio broadcasts to communicate with its agents here or is at least using them to train spies,” he added.
“我们应该假定朝鲜是在用无线电广播与这里的特工联系，或者至少是用它们来训练间谍，”他接着说。
He recalled that when he was training in the 1980s, he spent countless hours listening to tape-recorded broadcasts and copying the numbers to master a so-called numbers station technique of encrypted communication.
他回忆了自己上世纪80年代接受训练时的情景。当时，他花了大量时间听广播录音并抄写数字，以便掌握一种叫“数字电台”的通讯加密技术。
Mr. Kim said he and his handlers in the North used an agreed-upon book — “Whale Hunt,” a popular novel in the South — to decipher one another’s codes. As in the broadcast on Friday, a typical five-digit combination started with a three-digit page number. The remaining two digits pointed at two Korean characters in the text of the page.
金东植说他和在朝鲜的训练人员利用一本事先约定的书——韩国畅销小说《捕鲸记》(Whale Hunt)——来破译对方的密码。就像周五的广播一样，内容通常是五个数字的组合，先是一个三位数的页码，接下来的两个数字指的是所在页面上的两个韩语字。
The two Koreas still accuse each other of spying. The North is holding at least four South Koreans, some of them sentenced to a labor camp for life, on charges of espionage.
韩朝两国依然指责对方从事间谍活动。朝鲜以从事间谍活动的罪名扣押着至少四名韩国人，其中一些人被判处终身劳改。
In recent years, the South’s intelligence service has arrested people it deemed spies as they entered the country disguised as refugees. Last week, prosecutors said they arrested two South Korean men on charges of spying for the North. They released closed-circuit video of counterespionage officers overpowering a suspect at an internet cafe.
近年来，韩国情报机构逮捕了一些被他们认为是乔装成难民的朝鲜间谍。上周，检方称他们以替朝鲜从事间谍活动的罪名，逮捕了两名韩国男子。他们公布了一段闭路电视画面。视频中，反间谍工作人员在一家网吧内制服一名嫌疑人。
The men used encrypted emails to contact their handlers in the North, the prosecutors said.
警方称，这名男子用加密电子邮件联系朝鲜的上级。
Mr. Kim said that during his days as a spy, the radio was a main tool of communication.
金东植称，在他当间谍期间，无线电是主要的沟通工具。
“If there was a certain song broadcast by Pyongyang Radio at an agreed-upon hour, that meant that there was something wrong and I should immediately abort my mission,” he said. “If not, it was all clear.”
“如果平壤在商定好的时间播送了一首特定的歌曲，那就意味着出问题了，我应该立即取消任务，”他说。“如果没有，就是一切顺利。”