SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Wednesday that it had already built nuclear weapons small enough to be carried by missiles, even as a senior American general questioned the country’s recent claim that it had successfully tested a submarine-launched ballistic missile.
韩国首尔——朝鲜方面周三宣布，该国已制造出了能够搭载在导弹上的足够小的核武器。与此同时，美国的一名高级将领则质疑了朝鲜最近的说法，即该国成功地测试了一枚潜射弹道导弹。
“It is long since the D.P.R.K.’s nuclear striking means have entered the stage of producing smaller nukes and diversifying them,” the National Defense Commission said in a statement, using the initials of North Korea’s formal name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
“朝鲜的核打击手段早已全面进入了小型化、多种化阶段，”朝鲜国防委员会(National Defense Commission)称。
The statement was carried by the official news agency, K.C.N.A.
上述说法由该国官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(KCNA)发布。
“The D.P.R.K. has reached the stage of ensuring the highest precision and intelligence and best accuracy of not only medium- and short-range rockets, but long-range ones,” the agency said.
“无论中程和短程导弹还是远程导弹，其精确度和智能化水平都达到了能够保证最高命中率的阶段，”朝中社报道。
Officials and analysts in Washington and Seoul remain uncertain and even divided over how close North Korea has come to acquiring a nuclear weapon small enough to be put on a missile, or its ability to deliver a nuclear warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile. But their concern has grown since the North placed a satellite into orbit in December 2012, successfully demonstrating a rocket technology needed for a long-range missile.
不过，华盛顿和首尔的官员与分析人士始终不确定，朝鲜在多大程度上接近于获得可以搭载在导弹上的足够小的核武器，以及它把核弹头搭载在洲际弹道导弹上的能力究竟如何。他们在这两个问题上甚至存在分歧。不过，自从朝鲜2012年12月把一颗卫星送入轨道，成功地展示了远程导弹所需的火箭技术之后，他们的担忧在加剧。
In February 2013, North Korea also claimed that it had conducted its third underground nuclear test with “a smaller and lighter A-bomb.”
朝鲜还在2013年2月宣称，该国已经完成了第三次地下核试验，其中采用的是“一枚更小更轻的原子弹”。
A month later, the North’s main government newspaper, the Rodong Sinmun, quoted a North Korean general as saying that the North’s “intercontinental ballistic missiles and other missiles are on a standby, loaded with lighter, smaller and diversified nuclear warheads.”
一个月后，朝鲜主要的官方报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)援引一名该国军事将领的话报道，朝鲜的“洲际弹道导弹随时待命，而且搭载了更轻更小的多种化核弹头”。
Adm. William E. Gortney, the commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command, told reporters last month that American intelligence officials believed that North Korea had the ability to put a nuclear weapon on its KN-08 intercontinental ballistic missile “and shoot it at the homeland,” although he said the North had yet to run a flight test of the missile.
上个月，北美防空司令部(North American Aerospace Defense Command)的指挥官海军上将威廉·E·戈特尼(William E Gortney)告诉记者，美国情报官员认为，朝鲜有能力把一枚核武器搭载到它的KN-08洲际弹道导弹上，“并把它射向美国本土”。不过他说，朝鲜还需要对这种导弹进行飞行测试。
North Korea’s statement on Wednesday came in response to international criticism of a ballistic missile test Pyongyang said it conducted on May 8. United Nations resolutions prohibit North Korea from testing such a missile.
朝鲜周三的声明是为了回应国际社会对它进行的一次弹道导弹测试的批评。平壤称这次测试是在5月8日进行的。根据联合国决议，朝鲜不得对这种导弹进行测试。
North Korea said the May 8 test involved successfully launching a strategic missile from a submarine. But some analysts have since questioned the claim, saying that some of the photographs of the episode that North Korea released may have been altered and that the test launch may have been conducted from a submerged barge, rather than a submarine.
朝鲜表示，在5月8日的测试中，他们成功从一艘潜艇发射了一枚战略导弹。不过，有部分分析人士质疑这种说法，声称朝鲜发布的关于此事的一些照片或许经过了修改，而且可能是从一艘水下的驳船而非潜艇发射的。
Speaking at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington on Tuesday, Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States, voiced similar misgivings.
周二在华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)发表讲话时，参谋长联席会议副主席、海军上将小詹姆斯·A·温尼菲尔德(James A Winnefeld Jr)表达了类似的疑问。
“They have not gotten as far as their clever video editors and spinmeisters would have us believe,” Admiral Winnefeld said. “They are many years away from developing this capability. But if they are eventually able to do so, it will present a hard-to-detect danger for Japan and South Korea, as well as our service members stationed in the region.”
“他们还没有走到他们聪明的视频编辑和宣传人员希望我们相信的那一步，”温尼菲尔德说。“他们距离获得这种能力还有很多年。但是，如果他们最终走到这一步，那么日本与韩国，以及我们驻扎在该地区的服务人员就将面临难以预测的危险。”