HONG KONG — Days before North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, successfully tested a ballistic missile that he said could hit parts of the continental United States, his reclusive regime unveiled another technical triumph: a Netflix-like streaming service.
香港——朝鲜领导人金正恩成功测试了一枚弹道导弹，据他说该导弹可以抵达美国大陆部分地区，而在几天前，他的这个与世隔绝的政权展示了另一项技术成果：类似于Netflix的流媒体服务。
Called Manbang, the service delivers on-demand videos to televisions through a set-top box, Korean Central Television said in a report last week.
据朝鲜中央电视台上周报道，这项服务名为“Manbang”，可以通过机顶盒把点播的视频传送到电视上。
In the report, a narrator says that Manbang is further proof of North Korea’s “socialist cultural power,” which will allow its people to watch their country “make a leap forward every day, every hour.”
报道中，一位叙述者称，Manbang进一步证明了朝鲜的“社会主义文化实力”，让朝鲜人民看到自己的国家“每时每刻都在大踏步地前进”。
Very few of the country’s roughly 25 million citizens are permitted to access the actual internet. Content that can be streamed is largely restricted to state-run television and propaganda-filled movies.
在这个总人口约为2500万的国度里，只有极少数人获准接入真实的互联网世界。可传送的内容基本被限定为国有电视台的节目以及充满宣传意味的电影。
According to the report, in addition to news reports and updates on Mr. Kim’s daily activities, Manbang also offers language courses in English and Russian.
该报道称，除了新闻报道和关于金正恩日常活动的最新消息，Manbang还提供学习英语和俄语的课程。
Manbang was “elevating the people’s cultural life a step up by allowing them to watch what they want any time they want,” a man identified as Ju Dae-hyun, a telecommunications official in Sinuiju, a town near the Chinese border, said in the report.
新义州一位名叫朱大炫(Ju Dae-hyun)的电信官员在报道中表示，Manbang将“让人民的文化生活水平再上一个新台阶，无论什么时候，他们都可以收看自己想看的东西”。新义州位于中国边境附近。
And Kim Kum-hee, a kindergarten teacher in Sariwon, said that Manbang’s video-on-demand service resolved the headache of children clamoring to binge-watch their favorite movies. “Now they are glued to the TV screen for hours a day,” she said.
此外，沙里院市一位名叫金锦熙(Kim Kum-hee)的幼儿园老师说，孩子们常常吵着要连续看好几部他们喜欢的电影，Manbang的视频点播服务解决了这个令人头疼的问题。“现在他们每天都会花好多个小时守在电视屏幕前，”她说。
North Korea’s ruling ideology, known as Juche, calls for self-reliance in all matters. In this spirit, the country has also said it developed its own computer operating system, Red Star, which appears to mimic Apple’s Mac OS X.
朝鲜主导意识形态名为主体思想，倡导自力更生做好所有事情。本着这一精神，朝鲜还宣称已经研发出了自己的计算机操作系统“红星”(Red Star)——看起来是模仿了苹果(Apple)的Mac OS X。
The country has also said it developed its own tablet computers, including the Android-based Samjiyon, according to North Korea Tech, a website that monitors the country’s technological strides.
据追踪该国科技动态的朝鲜科技网(North Korea Tech)报道，朝鲜称其还自主研发出了平板电脑，包括基于安卓系统的三池渊(Samjiyon)。
North Koreans rely on smuggled electronics to watch overseas media, anecdotal reports suggest. The government is trying to rein in the illegal use of Notetels, small Chinese-made media players that can read smuggled DVDs or USB sticks.
有传闻称，朝鲜人要靠走私来的电子产品收看海外媒体的节目。朝鲜政府正竭力限制人们非法使用Notetel，这是一种产自中国的小型媒体播放器，可以读取走私来的DVD或者U盘。
Netflix, which began an aggressive global expansion plan this year, has taken note of its newest competitor. On Thursday, its American Twitter account description read “Manbang knockoff.”
Netflix今年启动了一项大胆的全球扩张计划，它已经注意到了最新出现的竞争对手。周四，其美国Twitter账号在简介中自称是“Manbang山寨”。