WASHINGTON — For weeks, American intelligence agencies puzzled over the mysterious disappearance of Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator. Now Mr. Kim is back on the public stage — a walking stick in his left hand — and it is the State Department’s turn to puzzle.
华盛顿——在好几周时间里，美国情报机构对朝鲜独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的神秘消失很是困惑。如今，随着金正恩左手拄着拐杖重回公众视野，又轮到国务院困惑了。
A series of gestures by the North Korean leader, most dramatically the release this week of an imprisoned American tourist, Jeffrey E. Fowle, has raised hopes that after two and a half years of bellicose rhetoric, punctuated by periodic missile tests, Mr. Kim is groping for some kind of rapprochement with the United States and its allies.
这位朝鲜领导人的一系列姿态——其中最戏剧性的是本周释放了被拘押的美国游客杰弗里·E·福尔(Jeffrey E. Fowle)——让外界燃起了希望，以为经过两年半的挑衅论调及中间穿插的周期性导弹试验后，金正恩正在尝试与美国及其盟友达成某种和解。
It has been a multifront charm offensive: North Korea unexpectedly sent a high-level delegation to South Korea to attend the closing ceremonies of the Asian Games. It dispatched a senior envoy to the European Union to voice an interest in dialogue, and another to the wood-paneled confines of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, where he sparred with an establishment crowd over North Korea’s human rights record.
这是一场在多条阵线展开的魅力攻势：朝鲜出人意料地派了一支高级代表团前往韩国，出席亚运会闭幕式；派遣一名高级特使前往欧盟，表达举行对话的意愿；还派出另一名资深外交官前往位于纽约的对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)木板装饰的私密总部，与那里的一群美国决策层老手就朝鲜的人权记录展开了辩论。
On Wednesday, North Korea said Mr. Kim had personally ordered Mr. Fowle’s release after considering requests from President Obama. With Mr. Obama traveling to Beijing next month for a meeting of Pacific Rim leaders, that could be interpreted as an olive branch to both the United States and China, which is fed up with Pyongyang’s provocations but weary of American demands to pressure its hermetic neighbor.
周三，朝鲜称，在考虑了奥巴马的请求后，金正恩亲自下令释放福尔。鉴于奥巴马将于下月前往北京，出席环太平洋地区的一次领导人会议，此举或许可以解读为向美国和中国同时伸出橄榄枝。中国对平壤的频频挑衅失去了耐心，但又对美国要求其向这个与世隔绝的邻国施压心怀不满。
“This is either Kim Jong-un on his own, or the people around him saying, ‘We’ve got to change this paradigm, because it is not working,'” said Joseph R. DeTrani, a longtime C.I.A. official who specialized in North Korea and is now the president of the Intelligence and National Security Alliance, an industry group.
“这要么是金正恩自己的决定，要么是他身边的人说，‘我们得改变这种范式，因为它不起作用，’”约瑟夫·R·德特拉尼(Joseph R. DeTrani)说。他曾长期供职于中央情报局(CIA)，专攻朝鲜事务，现在是业界团体“情报和国家安全联盟”(Intelligence and National Security Alliance)的主席。
Secretary of State John Kerry took note of the shift in the diplomatic winds. On a visit to Germany this week, where he was marking the 25th anniversary of the fall of another Cold War relic, the Berlin Wall, he said, “We hope that the dynamics can develop in the next weeks, months perhaps, where we could get back to talks.”
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)注意到了朝鲜外交动向的转变。他本周出访德国，庆祝另一冷战纪念物柏林墙倒塌25周年。克里在当地说，“我们希望，这种动向能在接下来几周，亦或几个月里继续发展，让我们可以重返谈判桌。”
“The United States is absolutely prepared to do that,” he added. “We’ve said from Day 1 that if North Korea wants to rejoin the community of nations, it knows how to do it.”
“美国绝对为此做好了准备，”他接着说。“我们从刚一开始就说，如果朝鲜希望重返国际社会，它知道该怎么做。”
Mr. Kerry insisted that there was no quid pro quo for Mr. Fowle’s release, while other American officials played down any suggestion that the United States saw a new opening for engagement. North Korea policy, they said, has not changed: There will be no return to negotiations unless Pyongyang commits to relinquishing its nuclear arsenal.
克里坚称福尔的获释没有任何交换条件，而其他一些美国官员则淡化了任何有关美国看到了与朝鲜接触的新机遇的说法。他们表示，对朝政策始终没有变化：除非平壤承诺放弃核武库，否则美国不会恢复谈判。
Though the United States won the release of Mr. Fowle, an Ohio municipal worker who was arrested after leaving a Bible at a bar, it is still demanding the release of two other Americans: Kenneth Bae, who has been sentenced to 15 years of hard labor after being accused of plotting to overthrow the government, and Matthew Todd Miller, who was given six years of hard labor after being charged with spying.
尽管成功地使福尔获释，美国仍在要求朝鲜释放另外两名美国公民：肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)和马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)。俄亥俄州的市政工作者福尔此前因为把《圣经》留在了一家朝鲜酒吧而被捕。肯尼斯·裴以密谋颠覆朝鲜政权的罪名被判15年劳役。米勒则以间谍罪被判六年劳役。
Divining North Korea’s intentions, of course, is a fool’s game. Nobody is even sure why its supreme leader vanished from the public eye for 40 days. The prevailing theory is that he had some kind of surgery on his ankle or leg. Reports that he was injured in a car accident briefly circulated in South Korea, though Mr. DeTrani said he had his doubts. “I’ve been to Pyongyang, and there aren’t a lot of cars on the road,” he said.
当然了，要揣度朝鲜的意图简直是盲人摸象。甚至没人能确定，这个国家的最高领导人从公众视野中消失了40天的原因究竟是什么。最流行的说法是，他的踝关节或腿部做了某种手术。韩国曾一度流传他在车祸中受伤的传闻。但德特拉尼说，他对此表示怀疑。“我去过平壤，路上没什么汽车，”他说。
Guessing whether Mr. Kim is trying another in a series of charm offensives that eventually burn out, or seeking a genuine shift in North Korea’s relations with the world, is all but impossible.
这到底是金正恩故伎重演但终将败露的魅力攻势，还是在寻求让朝鲜与外界的关系发生真正改变？要弄清这一点，几乎是不可能的事。
Still, his actions could revive a debate over North Korea policy inside the White House that has been dormant since 2012, when the United States made a brief, ill-fated bid for a deal with Pyongyang. The administration has returned to its policy, known as “strategic patience,” which can be summed up as trying to outlast the regime by granting it no concessions upfront and staying in sync with North Korea’s neighbors.
尽管如此，他的做法还是可能会重新点燃白宫内部对朝鲜政策的讨论。这场讨论自2012年以来一直被搁置。当时，美国曾短暂地试图与平壤达成一份协议，但以失败告终。此后，奥巴马政府就回到了“战略忍耐”的策略上，简而言之，就是在正面较量中绝不让步，且与朝鲜的几个邻国步调一致，直到把朝鲜政权耗到山穷水尽。
The trouble is, those countries may be softening their stances, too. South Korea warily welcomed North Korea’s No. 2 official, Hwang Pyong-so, when he turned up at the Asian Games. Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, is exploring direct talks with Pyongyang on the fraught issue of Japanese citizens who were abducted by North Korea in the 1970s and ’80s.
问题是，朝鲜的邻国或许也在软化立场。朝鲜二号官员黄炳誓(Hwang Pyong-so)出现在亚运会上时，韩国谨慎地表示了欢迎。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)正在寻找与平壤直接对话的机会，谈论有关上世纪七八十年代被朝鲜绑架的日本公民的棘手问题。
China has long encouraged the United States to keep talking to North Korea, even as President Xi Jinping has grown deeply restless with the young dictator next door, snubbing him in July by visiting South Korea on his first presidential visit to the Korean Peninsula. For Mr. Xi, a return to diplomacy with North Korea would be a tangible accomplishment of his meeting with Mr. Obama at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Beijing.
长期以来，中国一直鼓励美国与朝鲜保持对话，就算习近平主席对邻国的年轻独裁者已经非常不耐烦。今年7月首次对朝鲜半岛进行国事访问时，习近平选择去了韩国，给了金正恩一个难堪。对于习近平来说，美国与朝鲜恢复外交接触将会是他在北京举行的亚太经合组织会议上与奥巴马会晤的一个实实在在的成果。
“The American missionary is a pawn in a larger game,” said Michael J. Green, who served as a senior adviser on Asia during the George W. Bush administration. Mr. Fowle’s release, he said, “may have been done in that context to ease the Americans and others back to a less-conditional resumption of the talks, which Pyongyang will argue is de facto acceptance of their new nuclear weapons status.”
“朝鲜是把福尔当棋子，在下一盘更大的棋，”曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府担任亚洲问题高级顾问的迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。他表示，福尔被释放“可能是为了让美国及其他国家更容易恢复谈判，同时不设置那么多前提条件，而平壤将会声称，这事实上是接受了他们新的核武状态”。
Like many North Korea watchers, Mr. Green said he was dubious that Mr. Kim would ever give up his nuclear weapons. If the administration shifted to a policy of engagement, he said, that could provoke Republicans in Congress, who are already worried that the United States will offer too many concessions to seal a nuclear agreement with Iran.
就像许多朝鲜问题观察人士一样，格林称，他怀疑金正恩永远不会放弃核武器。他说，如果奥巴马政府转向接触政策，会激怒国会的共和党人，因为后者本已在担心，美国会为了与伊朗达成核协议而做出太多让步。
“It’s a tricky game for the administration,” he said.
“对于奥巴马政府来说，这是一件很棘手的事，”他说。