SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Friday that it would repatriate a South Korean fishing boat it detained for crossing the eastern sea border, a rare humanitarian gesture at a time of military tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
韩国首尔——朝鲜于周五表示，将遣返一艘穿过东海边界并被其扣押的韩国渔船。在朝鲜半岛的军事紧张局势之下，这是一种罕见的人道主义姿态。
The South Korean boat, 391 Hungjin, was captured at dawn on Saturday when it illegally crossed the maritime border, known as the Northern Limit Line, off the eastern coast of the Korean Peninsula, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said Friday.
朝鲜官方的朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)于周五表示，韩国渔船“391兴振”号是在周六黎明非法越过朝鲜半岛东海岸被称为“北方界线”(Northern Limit Line)的海上边界时被捕的。
The boat deliberately intruded into North Korean waters for fishing, the news agency said.
朝中社说，这艘船故意侵入朝鲜海域捕鱼。
But it said North Korea “decided to repatriate the boat and its crew from the humanitarian point of view, taking into account the fact that all the crewmen honestly admitted their offense, repeatedly apologizing and asking for leniency.”
不过该社称，“考虑到所有船员都已坦白犯罪行为，多次道歉并请求宽恕，朝鲜决定从人道主义的角度遣返该船只及其船员。”
The North said it would release the ship at the maritime border on Friday evening, without saying how many crew members were on board.
朝鲜表示，将于周五晚在海上边界释放该船只，但没有说船上有多少名船员。
There was no immediate official reaction from the South Korean government.
韩国政府没有立即做出官方回应。
But government officials in Seoul, the South Korean capital, said that the 39-ton, blowfish boat went missing on Saturday night with 10 crew members — seven South Koreans and three Vietnamese — on board.
但韩国首都首尔的政府官员表示，这艘39吨的捕河豚船于周六晚失踪，船上有10名船员，包括七名韩国人和三名越南人。
Tensions have run high on the Korean Peninsula for months, as North Korea has conducted a series of missile and nuclear tests, and the United States and its allies have responded with more economic sanctions. But North Korea has not conducted any missile tests since Sept. 15, and in recent days, some officials and analysts in South Korea have begun voicing cautious optimism for a possible de-escalation.
数月以来，朝鲜半岛局势持续高度紧张，随着朝鲜进行了一系列导弹与核试验，美国及盟国也对其作出了更多经济制裁。但是从9月15日起，朝鲜还没有进行过导弹试验；最近几天，韩国一些官员和分析人士开始表示审慎乐观的态度，认为局势可能出现缓解。
The North Korean announcement came hours before Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis was scheduled to visit the demilitarized zone, the land border separating the two Koreas, to highlight Washington’s commitment to defend its South Korean allies.
朝鲜宣布该决定几小时后，美国国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)即将按计划访问位于朝韩陆上边界的非军事区，以强调华盛顿保卫盟国的承诺。
North Korea has captured many South Korean fishing boats in the years after the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, accusing them of violating the sea border off the eastern and western coasts of the Korean Peninsula.
朝鲜战争发生于1950至1953年，战争结束后数年以来，朝鲜扣押了多艘韩国渔船，指责他们入侵朝鲜半岛东西部海域的海上边界。
South Korea has accused the North of detaining hundreds of fishermen against their will. North Korea has said the fishermen defected, although several who have fled North Korea in recent years said they were given no option but to stay there.
韩国指责朝鲜违背数百名渔民的意愿扣留他们。朝鲜则表示这些渔民已经叛逃，然而近年来一些逃离朝鲜的渔民表示，他们当初别无选择，只能留下。
It has become highly unusual for South Korean ships to be detained by the North in recent decades, as better navigational equipment prevented them from sailing too close to the sea border. North Korea last detained a South Korean fishing boat in 2010 but released it.
近几十年来，韩国船只被朝鲜扣押的情况已经非常罕见，因为他们有了更好的导航设备，可以避免过于靠近海上边界。2010年，朝鲜扣押了韩国的一艘渔船，随后释放了它。
In contrast, North Korean fishing boats have often been found drifting in South Korean waters in recent years with engine trouble or after running out of fuel. South Korea has returned the crew members, except for those who wanted to defect.
相比之下，近年来，韩国水域内经常会有发动机故障或燃油耗尽的朝鲜渔船。韩国会遣返所有船员，除了想要脱北的人。
On Friday, South Korean officials said they learned about the decision to return 391 Hungjin through the North Korean news agency.
周五，韩国官员说，他们已经通过朝鲜通讯社了解到韩国即将归还“391兴振号”的决定。
In recent years, as it escalated the military standoff with the South, North Korea has cut off the telephone hotline the two sides had kept for official contact or to discuss emergencies or humanitarian issues, like the returning of fishermen.
近年来，随着与韩国的军事对峙升级，朝鲜已经切断了双方的电话热线。该热线原本用于保持官方接触、讨论紧急情况或人道主义问题，包括遣返渔民等。
When South Korea returns North Korean fishermen, it uses a megaphone at the border village of Panmunjom to inform the North before letting the crew members walk home across the border. North Korea does not pick up the phone when South Korean officials try daily to revive the hotline.
遣返朝鲜的渔民时，韩国会在板门店附近的边境村落使用扩音器通知朝鲜，然后让船员走过边界。韩国官员每天都在尝试恢复热线，但朝鲜拒不接电话。