SEOUL, South Korea — A day after exchanging artillery fire across their disputed sea border, North and South Korea hurled insults at each other on Tuesday, with the North rejecting an ambitious overture from the South’s president, Park Geun-hye.
韩国首尔——在两国具有争议的海上边界发生交火的一天之后，本周二，朝韩对彼此进行了谩骂，朝鲜还拒绝了韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)提出的一个雄心勃勃的建议。
In a speech in Dresden, Germany, that was broadcast live in South Korea on Friday, Ms. Park promised a huge investment in North Korea’s decrepit industries, as well as humanitarian aid for babies and nursing mothers, if the North gives up its nuclear weapons program.
上周五，朴槿惠在德国德累斯顿发表的一个讲话中承诺，如果朝鲜放弃其核武器项目，韩国将对朝鲜陈旧的工业投入巨资，并对婴儿和哺乳的母亲提供人道主义援​​助。韩国当时现场直播了这个讲话。
Although Ms. Park’s proposal largely reiterated what her three predecessors had proposed, it marked her most detailed overture toward the North since she came to office shortly after the North conducted a nuclear test in February 2013.
虽然朴槿惠的建议基本上是在重提她的三位前任的老话，但这是她自上任以来向朝鲜提出的最详尽的建议。她是在朝鲜2013年2月进行核试验后不久就任韩国总统的。
On Tuesday, the state-controlled North Korean newspaper Rodong Sinmun scoffed at Ms. Park’s speech, calling the unmarried South Korean leader an “eccentric old spinster” and “a frog in a well.” It said her overture was “full of deception” and “filth” and was aimed at destroying the North Korean government.
本周二，朝鲜执政党报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)嘲笑了朴槿惠的讲话，称这位未婚的韩国领导人是“古怪的老处女”和“井底之蛙”。文章说，她的提议“充满欺骗”、“藏污纳垢”，目的是摧毁朝鲜政府。
South Korea immediately responded, condemning North Korea for using “expressions even street ruffians would refrain from.”
韩国立即作出回应，谴责朝鲜使用了“甚至连街头地痞也不会采用的表达方式。”
“North Korea must realize that by the way it is behaving, it will attain nothing and will only deepen its isolation,” the government in Seoul said in a statement.
“朝鲜必须认识到，这样的行事方式不会给它带来任何好处，只会加剧其孤立，”首尔政府在一份声明中说。
North Korea stoked tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula last spring by threatening to launch nuclear strikes at Washington and Seoul. In the past few months, it had been moving to ease the tensions, but in recent weeks it conducted a series of short- and midrange missile tests.
去年春天，朝鲜威胁要对于华盛顿和首尔发动核打击，给分裂的朝鲜半岛的紧张局势火上浇油。在过去的几个月里，它变得倾向于缓和紧张局势，但是最近几周，它又进行了一系列短程、中程导弹试验。
Then on Sunday, North Korea threatened to carry out a “new form of nuclear test.” On Monday, it fired 500 artillery shells and rockets off its southern coast, with 100 of them falling south of a disputed sea border between North and South Korea. The South fired back, pounding North Korean waters with 300 artillery rounds.
然后，在上周日，朝鲜威胁要进行一种“新形式的核试验”。本周一，它朝南部海岸外发射了500枚炮弹和火箭弹，其中100枚落到了朝韩一处有争议的海上边界的南边。韩国还以颜色，也往朝鲜海域发射了300枚炮弹。
The tensions continued on Tuesday, with the South Korean military saying it was investigating an unidentified drone that crashed on Baengnyeong Island, in South Korean waters near where the exchange of fire occurred. The drone was first spotted by an islander on Monday.
本周二，紧张局势继续发酵：韩国军方说，他们正在调查一架坠毁在白翎岛的身份不明的无人机。白翎岛位于距交火地点不远的韩国海域。本周一，一位岛民最早发现了这架无人机。
“We have collected its debris for investigation,” said a spokesman for the South Korean Ministry of National Defense who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing ministry policy. “We are looking into all possibilities, including the possibility that it came from the North.”
“我们已经收集了碎片进行调查，”韩国国防部(Ministry of National Defense)一位发言人说，根据该部的政策，他不便具名。“我们正在调查各种可能性，包括它来自朝鲜的可能性。”
The spokesman declined to provide further details. But the South Korean news agency Yonhap quoted an unidentified government official as saying that the drone was two to three meters long, or 6.5 to 10 feet, and carried a small camera. The drone had a Japanese engine and Chinese components, it said.
该发言人拒绝透露更多细节。但韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap)援引一名身份不明的政府官员的话称，这架无人机长约两到三米，配备了一个小摄像头，它的发动机由日本制造，一些组件产自中国。
North Korea unveiled what appeared to be drones during recent military parades in its capital, Pyongyang. In March last year, its news media showed the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, watching drones attack targets during a military drill.
最近在其首都平壤举行的阅兵式上，朝鲜展示了貌似无人机的产品。去年3月，朝鲜新闻媒体显示，该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在一次军事演习中观看无人机攻击目标。
Mr. Kim was quoted as saying at the time that the drones were intended to be used to attack targets in South Korea.
当时的报道援引金正恩的话称，这种无人机旨在攻击韩国的目标。