SEOUL, South Korea — The intercontinental ballistic missile North Korea launched this week was a new type of missile bigger and more powerful than any the country had tested before, South Korean officials said on Thursday.
韩国首尔——韩国官员周四表示，朝鲜本周发射的洲际弹道导弹是一种新型导弹，比之前所有试验的导弹都更大、更有威力。
Photos from the North’s official Korean Central News Agency are providing valuable clues about the capabilities of the missile, named the Hwasong-15. North Korea said it carried a “super-large heavy warhead which is capable of striking the whole mainland of the U.S.”
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)发布的照片，提供了有关这枚名为“火星-15”(Hwasong-15)导弹性能的宝贵线索。朝鲜称其搭载了一枚“能够打击美国本土全域的超大型重型核弹头”。
North Korea’s Hwasong series represents the most successful and formidable part of its ballistic missile arsenal, and photographs of the test suggested improvements over the Hwasong-14, a missile first tested over the summer that showed the country’s capacity to strike the continental United States.
朝鲜的火星系列代表着其弹道导弹武器储备中最成功、最难对付的部分。这次试验的照片表明，“火星-15”在“火星-14”(Hwasong-14)的基础上进行了改进。“火星-14”是夏天首次试射的，显示出了朝鲜打击美国本土的能力。
“We believe this is a new type of missile,” said Roh Jae-cheon, a spokesman for the South Korean military’s Joint Chiefs of Staff. “It looks clearly different from the Hwasong-14 in the external looks of its nose cone, the linkage between its first and second stages, and its overall size.”
“我们认为这是一种新型导弹，”韩国军方的参谋长联席会议发言人卢载千(Roh Jae-cheon)说。“它的头锥和第一级与第二级之间的联动装置的外观，以及总体大小明显不同于‘火星-14’。”
South Korean officials said the launch suggested that North Korea’s missile program was advancing faster than previously believed.
韩国官方称，这次发射表明朝鲜导弹计划进展得比之前以为的要快。
Private analysts agreed that the Hwasong-15 looked bigger and more powerful than the Hwasong-14.
私营机构的分析人士同意“火星-15”比“火星-14”更大、更有威力的说法。
Kim Dong-yub, a defense analyst at the Seoul-based Institute for Far Eastern Studies, said North Korea appeared to have built the Hwasong-15 by upgrading the second stage of the Hwasong-14, which carries the missile through space after the first-stage booster drops off.
设在首尔的远东研究所(Institute for Far Eastern Studies)国防分析师金东烨（Kim Dong-yub，音）说，朝鲜似乎是通过改进“火星-14”的第二级制造出了“火星-15”。在第一级助推器脱落后，正是第二级携带导弹在太空中飞行。
Mr. Kim also reported an important discovery: He said the Hwasong-15 appeared to have two engines for its first booster stage, giving the new missile greater range than previous models.
金东烨还反映了一项重要发现：他说，“火星-15”的第一级助推器似乎有两个发动机，这让这款新型导弹的射程超过了之前的导弹型号。
Tal Inbar, head of space research at Israel’s Fisher Institute for Air and Space Strategic Studies, agreed in a message on Twitter.
以色列费舍尔航空航天战略研究所(Fisher Institute for Air and Space Strategic Studies)所长塔尔·因巴尔(Tal Inbar)在Twitter上的一篇帖子里同意这个观点。
Mr. Kim said, “This is indeed a new type of missile.”
金东烨说：“这的确是一种新型导弹。”
He said that if the missile’s first stage was in fact powered by two engines instead of one, it would dispel earlier speculation among some analysts that North Korea might have loaded a very light mock warhead on the Hwasong-15 so it could fly farther.
他说，如果导弹的第一级实际上是由两个而不是一个发动机驱动的，这就消除了早前一些分析人士对朝鲜可能在“火星-15”上搭载了一枚非常轻的模拟弹头，因此它能飞得更远的猜测。
Chang Young-keun, a missile expert at Korea Aerospace University near Seoul, also said two Hwasong-14 booster engines were bundled together to propel the Hwasong-15, giving it the true range of an ICBM. North Korean engineers may also have helped the Hwasong-15 fly farther by fitting its thicker second stage with more fuel or more thrusters, which are secondary rocket engines commonly used for adjustments and velocity of a missile, he said.
坐落在首尔附近的韩国航空大学(Korea Aerospace University)导弹专家张永谨（Chang Young-keun，音）也表示，“火星-14”的两个助推器引擎被捆绑在了一起，为“火星-15”提供动力，这让它具备了洲际弹道导弹的真正射程。他说，朝鲜的工程师可能还通过为更厚的第二级配备更多燃料或更多推进器，帮助“火星-15”飞得更远。推进器是次要火箭引擎，通常用于为导弹提供调整和速度。
The new missile’s size and heft have required North Korea to build a bigger transporter-launcher vehicle. The new vehicle featured nine axles, compared with the eight-axle truck used to carry the Hwasong-14.
这款新型导弹的大小和重量要求朝鲜制造更大的运输发射车。相比于运输“火星-14”的八轴卡车，新车是九轴的。
South Korean defense officials say North Korea runs more than 160 mobile missile launching vehicles and is building more. Such vehicles make it easier to hide and transport missiles and harder for the United States and its allies to track signs of imminent missile attacks.
韩国防务官员称，朝鲜现在有160多辆可移动导弹发射车，同时还在制造更多发射车。这类发射车降低了隐藏和运输导弹的难度，同时增加了美国及其盟友追踪朝鲜即将发起导弹攻击迹象的难度。
North Korea claims to be able to launch its missiles from anywhere, anytime. As if to drive its point home, each of the three ICBMs North Korea has launched so far was fired from a different location.
朝鲜自称能够在任何时候、从任何地方发射导弹。似乎是为了让外界相信这一点，朝鲜迄今为止发射的三枚洲际导弹均是从不同地方发射的。
The photos also revealed that the Hwasong-15 has a rounder nose cone than the Hwasong-14. In Russian and American ICBM designs, such nose cones often mean that the missiles carry multiple warheads, analysts said. But they doubted that North Korea had the ability to hit an intercontinental target with a warhead yet, much less deliver multiple warheads on the same missile.
照片还显示“火星-15”的头锥比“火星-14”的更圆。分析人士说，在俄罗斯和美国的洲际导弹设计中，这种头锥通常意味着导弹携有多枚弹头。但他们怀疑朝鲜还不具备用弹头打击洲际目标的能力，更别说让一枚导弹携带多枚弹头了。
North Korea has yet to demonstrate that its ICBM warhead can survive the violent re-entry through the earth’s atmosphere after flying through space.
朝鲜还没证明其洲际导弹上的弹头结束在太空中的飞行后，能够经受住重新进入地球大气层的剧烈过程。
During a phone conversation with President Trump later Thursday, President Moon Jae-in of South Korea said that the Hwasong-15 was “the most advanced North Korean missile yet, in all aspects,” according to his office.
据韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)的办公室称，在周四晚些时候与特朗普总统的电话交谈中，文在寅说，“火星-15”“在各方面都是朝鲜最先进的导弹”。
But he said it had not proved that North Korea has accomplished re-entry technology, or an ability to guide the warhead to its target.
但他说，还没有证明朝鲜已经实现了再入技术，或导引弹头击中目标的能力。
The two presidents reaffirmed their determination to maximize sanctions to stop North Korea from further advancing its technologies and to pressure it to return to nuclear disarmament talks, Mr. Moon’s office said.
文在寅的办公室说，两位总统重申了最大限度地利用制裁阻止朝鲜进一步推进技术，并向其施压，迫使其回到裁核谈判上的决心。
Other pictures showed North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, celebrating the launch with his key missile scientists, Jang Chang-ha and Jon Il-ho. Both Mr. Jang and Mr. Jon are important players in North Korea’s efforts to build a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile.
其他照片显示，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)与关键的导弹科学家张昌河(Jang Chang-ha)和全日浩(Jon Il-ho)庆祝此次发射。张昌河和全日浩都是朝鲜制造搭载核武器的洲际弹道导弹活动的重要成员。
Mr. Kim was also accompanied by Jo Yong-won and Yu Jin, top officials from the Munitions Industry Department of his Workers’ Party. The party agency oversees the country’s weapons development.
陪同金正恩的还有来自他所领导的劳动党军需工业部(Munitions Industry Department)高层官员赵甬元(Jo Yong-won)和刘进(Yu Jin)。
When the department submitted a plan for this week’s test of the Hwsong-15, Mr. Kim approved it with his characteristic handwriting: “For the party and for the fatherland, launch the missile bravely!”
当军需工业部提交本周进行“火星-15”试验的计划时，金正恩用有特色的笔迹签批道：“鼓起勇气，为党和国家发射吧！”