A North Korean defector on Monday made a bold dash through gunfire across a stretch of the heavily fortified border between North and South Korea: The Joint Security Area in the so-called truce village of Panmunjom.
周一，一名脱北者在枪林弹雨中勇敢地冲过一段戒备森严的朝韩边境：板门店“停战村”的联合安全区(The Joint Security Area)。
It’s the only place in the demilitarized zone — the fortified no-man’s land that spans the width of the Korean Peninsula, acting as a buffer — where soldiers from the North and South stand just feet from one another. It’s also seen as one of the only places where someone could make a break for the border.
这是横跨朝鲜半岛、戒备森严、没有人烟的缓冲地带——朝韩非军事区内唯一一个由双方士兵近距离守卫的地区，它也被认为是少数几个能跨越边境出逃的地区之一。
A scattering of heavily guarded buildings straddles the demarcation line between the two countries where the 1953 armistice suspending the Korean War was signed.
重兵把守的几座建筑稀疏地横跨在两国的分界线上，1953年的朝鲜战争停火协议就是在这里签署的。
In recent years, the spot has become the background for photo ops for American presidents on visits to the South and a destination for tourists. But Monday’s dramatic defection in a hail of gunfire was a reminder that it is still an active military site.
近年来，此地变成了美国总统们访问韩国时拍照的背景，也成了游客们的目的地。但周一枪林弹雨中的戏剧性叛逃事件提醒着人们，这里仍是一个活跃的军事地点。
What the truce village looks like
停战村是什么样的
The demilitarized zone is heavily fortified, lined with mines and barbed-wire fences, and is regularly patrolled by troops on both sides, while still keeping those forces at a distance from one another. But the truce village is an outlier.
非军事区有重兵严守，设有地雷和安装了铁丝网围栏，并且朝韩双方都派部队定时巡逻，但部队之间仍会保持一定距离。而停战村则不太一样。
Created in the wake of the 1953 agreement as a place for negotiation and discussion, the space was established as the one place in the DMZ where soldiers and officials could come face-to-face.
这个地区建立于1953年签署停战协议后，作为协商和讨论区。这是非军事区内一个可供双方士兵和官员面对面共处的地方。
The United Nations Command administers the site. Soldiers patrol the plaza, which is flanked by two looming buildings: The Freedom House on the South’s side and Panmon Hall on the northern side.
联合国军司令部(The United Nations Command)管理着这片地区。士兵在广场上巡逻，广场两侧矗立着两栋楼：韩国的“自由之家”(The Freedom House)和朝鲜的“板门阁”(Panmon Hall)。
But at the center, six squat buildings actually straddle the demarcation line. Three are painted the powder blue of the United Nations.
但在中间，六间低矮的房屋却横跨了分界线，其中三间漆着代表联合国的浅蓝色。
It is inside these conference buildings — where the United Nations Command has facilitated peace talks over the years — that visitors can walk freely across the border. This all happens under the watchful eyes of stone-faced guards.
在这些多年来一直被联合国军司令部用来和平谈判的会议楼里，访客可以自由跨越国界。这些举动都会受到面无表情的卫兵的密切监视。
Outside, a low cement slab between the buildings marks the border that soldiers, and visiting tourists, dare not cross.
外面，楼房之间低矮的水泥板是士兵和前来参观的游客都不敢跨越的国界线。
Those who come to the South Korean side stand back and gaze with curiosity across the plaza to catch a glimpse of their reclusive neighbors to the north.
在韩国这边参观的游客站在国界线内，好奇的看着广场对面，想要一睹他们离群索居的北方邻居。
How the defector escaped
叛逃者是如何逃脱的
The North Korean who defected this week raced in a vehicle toward the demarcation line in the Joint Security Area around 3:15 p.m. Monday, according to South Korean military officials. His car became stuck on the north side of the border, the officials said on Tuesday at a news conference, and he jumped out and ran toward the South. That’s when four North Korean soldiers chased him and opened fire.
据韩国军方表示，本周脱北的朝鲜人大约在周一下午3点15分驾车冲向联合安全区的分界线。在周二的新闻发布会上，韩国官方表示，他的车在朝鲜边境卡住后，他跳出汽车，跑向韩国。当时有四名朝鲜士兵追着他开枪。
The defector made it across the border, taking shelter near a building. He had been shot and wounded several times before South Korean and American forces found him 55 yards south of the demarcation line and dragged him to safety. He was then taken to a hospital, where he was in critical condition on Tuesday, South Korea’s state-run news outlet Yonhap reported.
那名脱北者越过边界，在一栋楼房旁藏身。韩国和美国部队在边界线以南55码（约50米）处找到了他，将他拖到了安全的地方，他身中数枪，多处受伤。据韩国官方新闻媒体韩联社(Yonhap)报道，他随后被送往医院，周二时病情危急。
Until Monday, no North Korean defector had crossed the demarcation line in the Joint Security Area since 2007.
从2007年到周一本次事件发生之前，尚无脱北者跨越联合安全区的分界线。
Gunshots in the truce village
停战村里的枪声
It’s not the first time the truce village at Panmunjom has been rattled by violence.
这不是板门店停战村第一次枪声大作。
In 1984, a Soviet tour guide from the northern side of the border dashed across the demarcation line, with 30 members of the North Korean military at his back.
1984年，一个苏联导游从朝鲜一侧冲过分界线，身后有30名朝鲜士兵。
The troops exchanged fire with South Korean soldiers in the Joint Security Area, killing one and wounding two others, but the defector escaped uninjured.
朝鲜部队与韩国士兵在联合安全区内交火，韩方一死两伤，但叛逃者顺利逃亡，没有受伤。
In 1976, North Korean soldiers wielding axes shocked the world when they attacked and killed two American soldiers in the Joint Security Area.
1976年，朝鲜士兵在联合安全区内挥起斧头袭击并杀死了两名美国士兵，震惊了世界。
That episode changed the way soldiers move about this zone. Before the attack, they could cross over the demarcation line, but since the ax attack, each opposing forces must remain on its own side.
那次事件改变了士兵们在该地区的行事方式。在袭击事件之前，他们本可以跨越分界线，但斧头袭击事件后，对峙的双方部队必须待在自己一侧。