SEOUL, South Korea — In the highest-level contact between the two Koreas in years, President Moon Jae-in of South Korea plans to meet Saturday with the sister of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and the North’s nominal head of state, officials said on Thursday.
韩国首尔——韩国官员周四表示，韩国总统文在寅计划在周六与朝鲜领导人金正恩的妹妹以及朝鲜名义上的国家元首见面。
Mr. Moon’s luncheon meeting with the North Koreans was announced on Thursday, as Vice President Mike Pence arrived in South Korea carrying a message from Washington: not to waver from strong sanctions against North Korea.
文在寅将与朝鲜代表团共进午餐的消息是于周四宣布的。当天，美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)抵达韩国，带来了华盛顿的信息：不要在对朝鲜施加严厉制裁的问题上动摇。
The high-level North Korean delegation, headed by Kim Yong-nam, the North’s ceremonial head of state, will arrive in South Korea on Friday on a special plane to attend the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics later in the day. The trip’s significance was underscored by the revelation on Wednesday that the delegation would include Kim Yo-jong, the only sister and a trusted aide of Kim Jong-un, the North’s supreme leader.
由名义上的国家元首金永南带领的朝鲜高级代表团将于周五乘专机抵达韩国，出席当天晚些时候举行的冬季奥运会开幕式。朝鲜周三透露，代表团成员包括朝鲜最高领导人金正恩唯一的妹妹、他信赖的助手金与正，突显了此次访问的重要性。
In Kim Jong-un’s dynastic regime, which upholds his “bloodline” as a sacred leadership qualification, Ms. Kim wields a singular clout that cannot be matched by any nonrelative members of the elite, regardless of their official titles, according to North Korea analysts.
据朝鲜分析人士称，金正恩的王朝政权把他的“血统”作为神圣的领导人资格来维护，因此金与正在这个政权中拥有独一无二的影响力；任何其他的非亲属权贵，无论他们有什么官方头衔，都无法与之比拟。
Ms. Kim would be the first member of North Korea’s ruling family to visit the South since the 1950-53 Korean War. Her father, the late North Korean dictator Kim Jong-il, held a summit meeting with the former South Korean president Kim Dae-jung, but did not keep his promise to visit the South a second time. The elder Kim died in 2011, bequeathing power to his third son, Kim Jong-un, who has rapidly accelerated the North’s weapons programs.
金与正将是自1950至1953年的朝鲜战争以来首位访问韩国的朝鲜统治家族成员。她的父亲、已故的朝鲜独裁者金正日曾与韩国前总统金大中举行过一次峰会，但没有遵守他要在第二次峰会时访问韩国的承诺。金正日于2011年去世，将权力遗留给了三子金正恩，后者迅速加快了朝鲜的武器计划。
It remained unclear whether Ms. Kim would be carrying a message from her brother to Mr. Moon, who has said he is willing to meet Kim Jong-un if he is reasonably sure that such a meeting would help end the crisis over the North’s nuclear weapons and missile development.
目前尚不清楚金与正是否将代哥哥向文在寅传递口信。文在寅一直表示，如果有理由让他相信，两人的会晤将有助于结束朝鲜核武器和导弹发展危机，他愿意与金正恩会面。
The North Koreans’ trip has raised hopes within Mr. Moon’s government, which has sought to use the North’s participation in the Olympics to expand dialogue with Pyongyang and ease tensions over the North’s nuclear weapons program. North Korea is sending 22 athletes to the Olympics, as well as hundreds of cheerleaders, musicians, singers and dancers.
朝鲜人的此次访问给文在寅政府内部带来希望。文在寅政府一直想利用朝鲜参加奥运会的机会，扩大与平壤的对话，缓解朝鲜核武器项目制造的紧张局势。朝鲜将派22名运动员参加奥运会，还派了数百名啦啦队员、音乐演奏者、歌手和舞蹈演员前往韩国。
The two Koreas will march together in Friday night’s opening ceremony in the South Korean town of Pyeongchang, and even field their first-ever joint Olympic team, in women’s ice hockey. Mr. Pence also plans to attend the opening ceremony.
在即将于周五晚上在韩国平昌举行的开幕式上，两国运动员将一起出场，两国甚至组建了首个奥运联合代表队参加女子冰球比赛。彭斯也计划出席开幕式。
But hopes for détente have been tempered by deep skepticism over the North’s sudden overtures. United States officials fear that after a year of increasingly provocative missile and nuclear tests, Kim Jong-un may be on a charm offensive to undermine international sanctions that have begun biting his isolated country.
但人们对朝鲜突然的友好姿态持怀疑态度，这降低了缓和的希望。美国官员担心，在用了一年的时间进行挑衅性越来越强的导弹和核试验之后，金正恩可能是在展开一场削弱国际制裁的魅力攻势，制裁已开始对他的孤立国家产生影响。
Before leaving Japan for South Korea, Mr. Pence said the United States would not be duped by any false overture.
彭斯在离开日本前往韩国之前说，美国不会被任何虚假的提议所欺骗。
“We’ll continue to seize every opportunity to ensure that North Korea does not use the powerful imagery and backdrop of the Olympics to paper over an appalling record of human rights and a pattern of developing weapons and conducting the kind of missile launches that are threatening our nation and threatening neighbors across the region,” Mr. Pence said.
“我们将继续抓住每一个机会，以确保朝鲜不能利用奥运会强有力的画面和背景来掩盖其极为恶劣的人权记录、开发武器的模式，以及那些威胁我们的国家、威胁整个地区邻国所进行的的导弹发射的做法，”彭斯说。
Mr. Pence was meeting Mr. Moon on Thursday for dinner, where he was expected to urge caution in dealing with the North Koreans.
彭斯将在周四与文在寅会面，共进晚餐，预计他将敦促文在寅谨慎处理朝鲜问题。
He said he would seek a South Korean commitment to “continue to isolate North Korea economically and diplomatically so that we can achieve what the world has longed to see, which is a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula.”
彭斯说，他将寻求韩国承诺“继续在经济和外交上孤立朝鲜，让我们能够实现世界渴望看到的东西，那就是一个无核化的朝鲜半岛”。
Mr. Moon has supported American-led sanctions against the North, but he has repeatedly advocated the need for dialogue. He has also been a vocal critic of any use of military force against North Korea, which is being considered as an option in the Trump administration.
虽然文在寅一直支持美国领导的对朝制裁，但他一再主张有必要进行对话。他也曾直言不讳地批评任何对朝鲜使用武力的做法，特朗普政府正在把使用武力作为一种选择。
With North Korea’s decision to send a high-level delegation, the Winter Olympics have suddenly become an arena for high-profile diplomacy. Although North Korea said its delegates had no willingness to meet Mr. Pence, the vice president again did not rule out the possibility of a meeting on the sidelines of the Games.
随着朝鲜作出派遣高级别代表团的决定，此届冬奥会突然变成了引人注目的外交舞台。尽管朝鲜方面称，其代表团没有与彭斯会面的意愿，但这位副总统再次表示，不排除在奥运会期间碰面的可能性。
“There may be a possibility for any kind of an encounter with North Koreans, whether it be informal or whether it take the form of a meeting,” he said. “As I said, we’ll have to wait and see exactly how that unfolds.”
“也许会有以某种形式与朝鲜人接触的可能性，不管是非正式的、还是以会面的形式，”彭斯说。“就像我说过的，我们继续关注事态的发展。”
In a jarring contrast to the moves toward reconciliation in the South, columns of goose-stepping soldiers and vehicles carrying rockets, including intercontinental ballistic missiles, rolled through the main square in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on Thursday as the country celebrated its Army Building Day.
与这些在韩国表示和解的举动形成鲜明对比的是，朝鲜在周四庆祝建军节之际，在首都举行了阅兵式，士兵的方阵和运载火箭（包括洲际弹道导弹）的车辆从平壤的主要广场上经过。
“We must ensure that no invaders can infringe upon our dignity and independence,” Mr. Kim said in a speech delivered from the podium overlooking the parade. “The People’s Army must keep in high alert and redouble its preparations for battle as the United States and its followers are making a fuss around the Korean Peninsula.”
“我们必须确保任何侵略者都不能侵犯我们的尊严和独立，”金正恩在观看阅兵式时站在主席台上发表讲话说。“人民军必须保持高度警惕，在美国及其追随者在朝鲜半岛上制造事端的同时，加倍做好战斗准备。”
It was the first parade since Mr. Kim declared in his New Year’s Day speech that a “nuclear button” on his desk could launch weapons targeting the mainland United States. The missiles on display on Thursday included the Hwasong-14 and Hwasong-15 ICBMs, which the North test-launched last year.
这是金正恩自从在其新年贺词中宣布，他的办公桌上有一个“核按钮”、可以向美国大陆的目标发射核武器之后的首次阅兵。周四展示的导弹包括朝鲜去年测试的“火星-14”和“火星-15”洲际弹道导弹。
Other military parades in recent years were broadcast live, but the event on Thursday aired several hours later.
虽然最近几年举行的其他阅兵式都是现场直播，但这次的活动是在几小时后播出的。
Some analysts in the South said that the North may have decided not to ruffle too many feathers as its athletes and officials were abroad.
韩国的一些分析人士说，朝鲜可能已决定在自己的运动员和官员在国外期间，不激怒太多的人。
Conservative South Koreans have vehemently accused the North of trying to “steal the show” by staging a military parade the day before the Winter Olympics begin.
韩国保守派人士强烈谴责称，朝鲜在冬奥会开幕的前一天举行阅兵式，是在试图“抢风头”。