SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea expelled a BBC reporting crew on Monday for what it deemed a disrespectful portrayal of the country and its leader, Kim Jong-un, as Mr. Kim used a rare Workers’ Party congress to cement his totalitarian grip on power.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周一驱逐了三名BBC记者，称这些记者的报道对该国及其领袖金正恩不敬。此时正值朝鲜劳动党全国代表大会，金正恩正利用这个很少举行的大会巩固其个人的极权统治。
More than 100 foreign journalists were granted visas to visit North Korea for the duration of the seventh congress of the Workers’ Party, the first such political gathering in 36 years. But the authorities there blocked those journalists from covering the event, forcing them to rely on state-run, propaganda-filled domestic news media to glean details of the meeting.
劳动党七大期间，超过100名外国记者被发给签证，准许访问朝鲜。七大是劳动党36年来第一次全国代表大会。但朝鲜当局不允许外国记者报道这个会议。他们只得依靠国家管控的、充斥着宣传口号的朝鲜国内新闻媒体，从中搜集有关会议的细节。
The BBC reported that its correspondent, Rupert Wingfield-Hayes, who had arrived with a delegation of Nobel laureates before the congress, had been detained on Friday and questioned for eight hours before being made to sign a statement.
据BBC报道，它的驻外记者傅东飞(Rupert Wingfield-Hayes)周五被拘捕，接受了八个小时的问讯，然后被迫在一份声明上签了字。傅东飞于七大前夕抵达朝鲜，同行的还有一个诺贝尔奖获得者的访问团。
O Ryong Il, the secretary general of the North’s National Peace Committee, said that Mr. Wingfield-Hayes’s coverage had distorted facts and “spoke ill of the system and the leadership of the country,” The Associated Press reported.
美联社报道，朝鲜国家和平委员会秘书长O Ryong Il称傅东飞的报道歪曲了事实，“抹黑朝鲜的体制和国家领袖”。
A producer, Maria Byrne, and a cameraman, Matthew Goddard, were also being expelled on Monday, the BBC said. They, along with Mr. Wingfield-Hayes, were stopped on Friday as the three were trying to leave the country.
BBC称，一同被驱逐的还有制作人玛丽亚·柏恩(Maria Byrne)和摄影师马修·高达(Matthew Goddard)。他们和傅东飞在周五准备离开朝鲜时被带走。
In one of his reports, Mr. Wingfield-Hayes said that his team was “in trouble” after shooting a segment in front of a statue of the North’s founding president, Kim Il-sung, in which he said something on camera that he said government minders deemed disrespectful. He said the officials demanded that the video be erased.
傅东飞在他的一篇报道中说，报道组在朝鲜开国领袖金日成的一个塑像拍摄了一段之后，遇到了“麻烦”，他说，他在那段拍摄中对着摄像机说的话被政府的陪同人员视为不敬。他说，政府官员要求删除那段视频。
Mr. Wingfield-Hayes did not elaborate on what he had said onscreen.
傅东飞没有详细说明他在视频中说了什么。
In his first report, speaking from inside the plane after landing at the airport in Pyongyang, the capital, Mr. Wingfield-Hayes described North Korea as “one of the most isolated, impoverished and repressive places on earth.”
在傅东飞发回的第一篇报道中，可以看到飞机刚刚在首都平壤机场着陆，他在机舱里说，朝鲜是“地球上最孤立、最贫穷、镇压最严的地方之一”。
He later expressed frustration with reporting in North Korea, saying that people he wanted to interview in a children’s hospital ran away when he approached. “Everything we see looks like a setup,” he said.
他后来还对在朝鲜做报道表示沮丧，他说，在一家儿童医院，他希望能采访一些人，但人们都在他接近时跑开。“我们看到的一切看来都像是专门布置的，”他说。
On Monday, the congress bestowed Kim Jong-un with a new top title, chairman of the Workers’ Party, after he called for a more vigorous development of nuclear weapons and missiles, state-run news media reported. The announcement was made during the 10 minutes that a small group of foreign journalists was allowed, for the first time, to watch the meeting, The A.P. reported from Pyongyang.
周一，党的第七次代表大会授予金正恩一个新头衔：劳动党委员长，朝鲜官方新闻媒体报道称，此前，金正恩呼吁更强有力地发展核武器和导弹事业。据美联社发自平壤的报道，新头衔是在允许一小部分外国记者进入会场的10分钟内宣布的，这是外国媒体首次被允许进入七大会场。
The congress also elevated two of Mr. Kim’s closest aides — the party secretary Choe Ryong-hae and Pak Pong-ju, the prime minister and chief economic official — to join the presidium of the party’s Politburo. Mr. Kim heads the presidium, which has two other members: Kim Yong-nam, the head of Parliament, and Hwang Pyong-so, the chief political officer of the military.
七大还提拔了金正恩最亲密助手中的两位：劳动党中央书记崔龙海和负责经济的朴凤柱总理，他们当选为新一届朝鲜劳动党政治局常委。金正恩领导下的政治局常委还有另外两名成员：最高人民会议常任委员会委员长金永南和朝鲜人民军总政治局局长黄炳誓。
Mr. Kim, the third-generation leader in his family’s dynastic rule of North Korea, had been widely expected to use the congress to cement his grip on power and have his crucial policies, including the so-called byungjin policy of increasing a nuclear arsenal while rebuilding the economy, adopted as official party lines.
金正恩是统治朝鲜的金氏王朝的第三代，人们广泛预计他将利用七大来巩固自己对权力的控制，让自己的关键政策正式成为党的路线，包括所谓的“并进”路线，既在发展经济的同时加强核武库的建设。
“The Workers’ Party of Korea will hold our dear Kim Jong-un in high esteem at the top post of the Juche revolution,” said a decision that more than 3,400 delegates to the congress unanimously adopted on Sunday, the third day of the meeting. Juche, or self-reliance, is the name of North Korea’s ruling ideology.
周日，出席七大的3400多名代表在大会召开的第三天一致通过的一项议题中表示，“朝鲜劳动党竭诚拥戴金正恩同志为主体革命的最高领导人。”主体的意思是自立自强，是统治朝鲜的意识形态的名称。
The congress — in theory, the North’s highest decision-making body — called Mr. Kim “the supreme leader of our party, state and military.”
党代表大会在理论上是朝鲜最高的决策机构，这次代表大会称金正恩是“我们党、国家和军队的最高领导人”。
Mr. Kim has ruled North Korea since his father, Kim Jong-il, died in 2011. He already holds top posts in the military and government. Until now, he has led the party as its first secretary, a new title he created for himself in 2012 after making his father the permanent general secretary of the party.
自从其父金正日2011年去世以来，金正恩一直统治着朝鲜。他已经拥有军队和政府的最高头衔。直到目前，金正恩一直以第一书记的头衔领导劳动党，2012年他把父亲封为劳动党永远的总书记之后，给自己创造了这个新头衔。
Outside analysts who had hoped that Mr. Kim would introduce overhauls found few encouraging signs.
曾希望金正恩会推出改革方案的外界分析人士没有看到多少令人鼓舞的迹象。
“It is necessary to continue to carry out the party’s strategic line of simultaneously pushing forward the economic construction and the building of nuclear force,” Mr. Kim said on Sunday at the end of his lengthy policy review, which stretched over three days. “This strategic line is the most revolutionary and scientific one reflecting the lawful requirements of building a thriving socialist nation and the specific conditions of our country.”
“要继续贯彻执行我党在推进经济建设的同时加强核力量建设的战略路线，”金正恩在周日的报告中说，报告总结了有关政策的为期三天的工作。“这一战略路线是最具革命性和科学性的，它反映了建设欣欣向荣的社会主义国家的合法要求，也反映了我国的具体情况。”
With that, Mr. Kim again flouted Washington’s repeated call for his country to abandon its nuclear weapons program.
金正恩就这样公然无视华盛顿要求他的国家放弃自己的核武器计划的多次呼吁。
The party meeting took place shortly after the United Nations Security Council imposed a new round of tougher sanctions to punish the North for its recent nuclear and long-range rocket tests. But the decision adopted by the congress upheld Mr. Kim’s campaign to expand his country’s nuclear arsenal “both in quality and quantity” by producing more diverse and smaller nuclear warheads.
七大召开前不久，联合国安理会通过了新一轮的更严厉制裁朝鲜的决议，以惩罚其最近的核武器和远程火箭试验。但是，七大通过的决定支持了金正恩用生产更多样化和更小型的核弹头的方式，“在质量上和数量上”扩大朝鲜核武器库的努力。
It also said the country should launch more satellites. The United Nations has condemned the North’s satellite program as a cover for developing an intercontinental ballistic missile.
七大的决议还表示，朝鲜应该发射更多的卫星。联合国曾谴责朝鲜的卫星项目是发展洲际弹道导弹的幌子。
Mr. Kim also said that his country proudly stuck fast to its “socialist path of our own choosing” by successfully repelling “the confusing winds of bourgeois liberalization, reform and openness from around us.”
金正恩还表示，他的国家通过成功地抵制了“我们周围的资产阶级自由化、改革开放的混乱之风”，自豪地坚持了“我们自己选择的社会主义道路”。
Under Mr. Kim, North Korea’s military has heightened crackdowns on DVDs and other digital media smuggled through the border with China that contained movies and other outside content. When the foreign journalists arrived in Pyongyang for the congress, their digital memory cards were inspected at the airport for possible banned content.
在金正恩的领导下，朝鲜军方加强了对通过中国边境走私进来的电影和带有其他外界内容的DVD等数字媒体的打击力度。参加七大的外国记者抵达平壤时，他们的数码存储卡在机场受到检察，以防止上面可能有违禁内容。
In its decision, the congress also said that North Korea will act like a “responsible nuclear power,” not proliferating its nuclear knowledge abroad and working for “the denuclearization of the world.” It said it would improve ties with other countries, including South Korea, if they respected the North.
七大在通过的决定中还表示，朝鲜会像“负责任的持核国家”那样行事，不会让核武器的知识扩散到国外，也将为“世界无核化”努力。七大表示，将改善与其他国家的关系，包括韩国，如果他们尊重朝鲜的话。
But the North made no commitment to denuclearizing itself. Instead, it demanded that the United States prove that it is no longer hostile to the country by stopping its annual joint military drills with South Korea, withdrawing its troops from there, and signing a peace treaty with Pyongyang.
但朝鲜自己并没有作出无核化的承诺。朝鲜反而要求美国通过停止其与韩国的年度联合军事演习、从韩国撤军，以及与平壤签署和平条约，来证明美国不再与朝鲜为敌。
South Korea dismissed the overture as propaganda, saying that dialogue was possible only when the North convinced the South that it was ready to give up its nuclear weapons.
韩国对朝鲜的这些表示不予考虑，称其为宣传，并表示，只有当朝鲜能说服韩国，它准备放弃自己的核武器之后，双方才有可能进行对话。
But the congress only reconfirmed that the North had no intention of giving up its nuclear weapons, said Moon Sang-gyun, a spokesman of the South Korean Defense Ministry.
但是，七大只是再次重申了朝鲜没有放弃核武器的意图，韩国国防部发言人文尚均说。