SEOUL, South Korea — An American student who tearfully apologized for trying to steal a political propaganda poster in his hotel in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for subversion on Wednesday, news agencies reported.
韩国首尔——一名美国学生含泪道歉，承认自己试图从在平壤住宿的酒店内偷走政治宣传标语。周三，多家新闻通讯社报道称，该学生被判处15年劳动教养。
The student, Otto F. Warmbier, 21, an undergraduate at the University of Virginia, was convicted after a one-hour trial Wednesday morning at the country’s Supreme Court, according to The Associated Press, which has a bureau in Pyongyang. The Japanese news agency Kyodo and the Chinese state-run Xinhua agency also covered the conviction and sentencing. There was no immediate report from North Korea’s state-run news media.
美联社报道称，朝鲜最高法院周三上午进行了一小时的庭审，随后判决21岁的弗吉尼亚大学学生奥托·弗雷德里克·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)有罪。美联社在平壤设有分社。日本共同社和中国新华社也报道了定罪和判决。朝鲜官方媒体并未立即对此进行报道。
The sentence is the latest penalty that North Korea has meted out to a small number of American tourists, missionaries and journalists in recent years for what have been deemed antistate crimes, including accusations of illegal entry and leaving a Bible behind in a hotel.
近年来，一些美国游客、传教士和记者被指控非法入境，或因为在酒店留下一本《圣经》等，被朝鲜官方冠以反国家罪名并遭受惩罚，这起判决是最新的一例。
Mr. Warmbier was detained on Jan. 2 as he was about to board a plane to leave North Korea. In late February, he offered a tearful apology at a government-arranged news conference in Pyongyang, where he said he had tried to take the political poster as a trophy for a member of a church in the United States. It was impossible to determine whether Mr. Warmbier had been coerced into making the statements.
瓦姆比尔是在1月2日准备搭乘飞机离开朝鲜时被捕的。二月底，他在一场政府安排的新闻发布会上含泪道歉，称自己试图拿走政治标语，作为纪念品送给美国的教会成员。无法确认瓦姆比尔是否被迫做出这一声明。
The reports on Wednesday came less than a day after a longtime American diplomat, Bill Richardson, the former governor of New Mexico, met with two North Korean officials in New York to urge Mr. Warmbier’s release on humanitarian grounds.
就在此前一天，美国资深外交官、前新墨西哥州州长比尔·理查德森(Bill Richardson)刚刚在纽约会见了两名朝鲜官员，商讨基于人道主义立场释放瓦姆比尔。