SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Monday that the missile it launched a day earlier was a new ballistic missile that can carry a large, heavy nuclear warhead, warning that the United States’ military bases in the Pacific were within its range.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周一称，该国昨日发射的导弹是一种新型弹道导弹，可搭载一枚大尺寸、重型核弹头，并警告称：美国在太平洋地区的军事基地都在这枚导弹的射程范围之内。
North Korea launched what American officials called an intermediate-range ballistic missile on Sunday from the northwestern town of Kusong. The missile, believed to have a longer range than any other North Korean missile tested so far, landed in the sea between the North and Japan, sparking angry comments from President Trump, as well as from President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan.
朝鲜于周日在西北城市龟城发射的这枚导弹被美国政府官员称为中程弹道导弹。导弹的射程范围据信超越了朝鲜以往测试过的所有导弹，发射后落入朝鲜与日本之间的海域。朝鲜的这一行为引发美国总统特朗普、韩国总理文在寅和日本首相安倍晋三的愤怒回应。
The North’s official Korean Central News Agency said on Monday that the new ground-to-ground missile, Hwasong-12, hit the targeted open water 489 miles away after soaring to an altitude of 1,312 miles. The missile was launched at a deliberately high angle so it would not fall too close to a neighboring country, the news agency said.
朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社在周一表示，这枚新的地对地导弹火星-12，在冲射到1312英里的高空后，击中了距离发射点489英里的目标开放水域。朝中社还表示，朝鲜刻意用高角度发射了该枚导弹，以避免它的坠落点过于接近邻国。
The flight data announced by the North roughly matched that released by Japanese and South Korean officials hours after the launch.
朝鲜公布的飞行数据与日本和韩国官方在导弹发射几小时后发布的数据大致吻合。
David Wright, a director of the Global Security Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, wrote in a blog post that if the same missile was flown on a standard trajectory, it would have a maximum range of 2,800 miles.
科学家关怀联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)的全球安全项目主管大卫·怀特(David Wright)在博客里写道，如果同样的导弹在一个标准轨道上飞行，它的最大射程范围可达2800英里。
That would qualify the projectile as an intermediate-range ballistic missile, which could fly far enough to target key American military bases in the Pacific, including those in Guam. The North on Monday used the unfamiliar term “medium-long range” to describe the missile.
那将使这枚导弹符合中程弹道导弹的标准，它的飞行距离可以远至将美国在太平洋的重要军事基地，比如关岛，作为打击目标。朝鲜在周一使用了少见的“中等长度范围”来形容这枚导弹。
The missile test was conducted to verify “the tactical and technological specifications of the newly developed ballistic rocket capable of carrying a large-size, heavy nuclear warhead,” the state news agency said, adding that the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, watched the launch.
朝中社称，这次导弹试射的目的是为了核验“能搭载大尺寸、重型核弹头的新型导弹在战略与技术上的规格”，并补充说，朝鲜领导人金正恩观看了导弹的发射。
“He declared that the D.P.R.K. is a nuclear power worthy of the name whether someone recognizes it or not,” said the agency, using the acronym of the North’s official name, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
“他宣称，无论他人是否承认，朝鲜是名副其实的核大国。” 朝中社的报道称。
If the United States provokes North Korea, Mr. Kim said, it will not escape “the biggest disaster in history” because “its mainland and Pacific operation region are in the D.P.R.K.’s sighting range for strike,” according to the news agency.
朝中社还称，金正恩表示，如果美国挑衅朝鲜，将无法逃脱“历史上最大的灾难”，因为“美国大陆和其在太平洋的运行区域都在朝鲜的打击瞄准范围内。”
“The coward American-style fanfaronade militarily browbeating only weak countries and nations which have no nukes can never work on the D.P.R.K., and is highly ridiculous,” Mr. Kim said, without naming Mr. Trump. “If the U.S. dares opt for a military provocation against the D.P.R.K., we are ready to counter it.”
金正恩称，“懦弱的，美国式的自吹自擂只能在军事上吓唬那些弱小且没有核武器的国家，对朝鲜永远不会起作用，而且是极度荒谬的”，他在发言中没有点名特朗普总统。“如果美国胆敢对朝鲜采取军事挑衅，我们做好了反击的准备。”