SEOUL, South Korea — A recent string of unsuccessful missile tests by North Korea, and the release of a video showing the launch of a different weapon, reflected a frantic drive by its leader, Kim Jong-un, to bolster his political standing before a high-profile dialogue with China, analysts said on Thursday.
韩国首尔——分析人士周四表示，朝鲜近期几次不成功的导弹试射，以及发布另外一种武器的测试视频，反映了其领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)热切希望在与中国进行的一次高调对话之前能够提升自己的政治地位。
North Korea conducted the latest of those tests on Tuesday, only hours before its envoy — Ri Su-yong, a confidant of Mr. Kim and a Politburo member — arrived in Beijing. The weapon, an intermediate-range Musudan ballistic missile, exploded as soon as it was fired, South Korean military officials said.
本周二，就在朝鲜特使李洙墉(Ri Su-yong)——他是政治局委员，金正恩的心腹——抵达北京的几个小时之前，该国进行了又一次试射。韩国军方官员称，这次是一枚中程“舞水端”(Musudan)弹道导弹，但发射后马上就爆炸了。
The Musudan, which analysts say was devised to strike United States military bases in Guam with nuclear and chemical weapons, had not had a test flight until April, when North Korea launched three. Each test failed.
分析人士称，“舞水端”导弹的设计目标是运载核武器和化学武器，打击位于关岛的美国军事基地。直到今年4月，这种导弹才开始飞行测试，当月试射了三次，均以失败告终。
Despite having little time to fix the problems, engineers conducted another test on Tuesday, also unsuccessful, an unusual streak of flops even by the checkered standards of North Korea.
尽管几乎没有时间来解决这些问题，工程人员还是在周二进行了一次新的测试，同样未能成功。就算以朝鲜的标准来看，出现这样一连串失败的情况也不常见。
Mr. Kim’s apparent eagerness to demonstrate advances in his country’s missile capacity may have added to the pressure for his engineers, whose rockets have seldom worked on the first try, some analysts said.
一些分析人士称，金正日似乎急于证明朝鲜的导弹能力有所进步，可能给手下的工程师增加了压力。朝鲜的火箭很少能在第一次试射时就成功。
“Repeating a failed test again and again with no more than a month for analysis and troubleshooting will almost guarantee repeated failure,” John Schilling, an expert on North Korean missiles, wrote in an analysis posted on Wednesday on 38 North, a website in Washington that covers North Korea. “Whether this unrealistic tempo is driven by impatience or desperation, it may mark the end of the Musudan program — whose military utility is in any case increasingly questionable as North Korea’s other programs advance.”
“一次又一次地测试失败，而用来分析和诊断故障的时间还不超过一个月，再次失败几乎是必然的，”研究朝鲜导弹的专家约翰·席林(John Schilling)周三在开设于华盛顿的朝鲜消息网站38 North上撰文指出。“这种不切实际的节奏，不管是出于不耐烦，还是出于孤注一掷，可能都会标志着‘舞水端’计划的终结——无论如何，随着朝鲜其他计划的推进，‘舞水端’的军事用途会变得越来越不可信。”
On Wednesday, North Korea released a video of a recent test flight for a different projectile — its first submarine-launched ballistic missile — shortly before Mr. Ri met with President Xi Jinping of China in Beijing. The footage was included in a documentary shown on the state-run Central Television.
到了周三，朝鲜发布了近期测试另一种导弹的视频，那是该国的首枚潜射弹道导弹。没过一会儿，李洙墉当天在北京会见了习近平主席。中国官方媒体中央电视台在一个记录片中播放了这段视频。
Outside analysts said the timing of the broadcast was as interesting as the footage itself.
外界分析人士表示，播出的时机和这段视频本身一样意味深长。
After the failed tests, they said, North Korea needed another way to draw attention to its missile threats. The video preceded both the meeting between North Korea and China this week and a planned security dialogue between the United States and China in Beijing next week, where dealing with the North’s weapons program is expected to be a main topic.
他们表示，几次测试失败后，朝鲜需要换一种办法来吸引外界关注它的导弹威胁。这段视频出现于两个会议召开之前，一个是朝鲜与中国本周举行的会晤，另一个是计划于下周在北京召开的中美安全对话。在后一个会议上，应对朝鲜核计划预计将是一个重要话题。
“By releasing the video footage, North Korea is trying to compensate for the Musudan failure,” said Kim Yong-hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, the South Korean capital. “North Korea wanted to demonstrate to China that its weapons programs have reached a considerable level and that China must acknowledge the fact when it sits down with the Americans to discuss North Korea.”
“朝鲜发布这个录像片段，是想弥补‘舞水端’项目的失败，”首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)朝鲜研究教授金容铉(Kim Yong-hyun)说。“朝鲜想向中国证明，它的武器项目达到了相当高的水平，证明在与美国坐下来谈论朝鲜问题时，中国必须认识到这个事实。”
North Korea claimed to have successfully tested a submarine-launched ballistic missile in April and released photos of the launch at the time. South Korean officials have said the projectile flew only 19 miles, suggesting that the North was still years away from perfecting it. But they said that such a missile would eventually provide North Korea with a harder-to-detect means of delivering its nuclear warheads.
今年4月，朝鲜声称自己成功试射了一枚潜射弹道导弹，并在当时发布了发射导弹的照片。韩国官员表示，这枚导弹只飞出了19英里，意味着朝鲜要完善这一技术还需数年时间。不过，他们也表示，此类导弹最终将使朝鲜具备以更难被监测到的方式发射核弹头的能力。
The documentary released on Wednesday included video clips of the submarine-launched ballistic missile, known as Polar Star, soaring out of the water and flying into the sky, as the narrator extolled the military advances that the North has made under Mr. Kim.
中央电视台周三播放的纪录片包含一些视频片段，显示了这种名为“北极星”(Polar Star)的潜射弹道导弹冲出水面、飞向空中的画面，画外音是解说员在赞美朝鲜在金正恩领导下取得的军事进步。
In recent weeks, Mr. Kim has repeatedly urged his missile engineers to conduct more tests with the ultimate goal of developing an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of delivering a nuclear warhead.
最近几周，金正恩多次敦促手下的导弹工程师进行更多试验。这些测试的终极目标是研发出一种可以发射核弹头的洲际弹道导弹。
The Musudan was mainly intended to target Guam, analysts said. North Korea has more reliable, proven missiles of shorter ranges, like its Rodong, which can target South Korea and Japan, both host to tens of thousands of American troops. In recent military parades, North Korea has also displayed the KN-08, said to be the country’s first intercontinental ballistic missile, though it has never been tested.
分析人士表示，“舞水端”导弹的主要目标是关岛。朝鲜拥有性能已被证实更可靠的中短程导弹，比如射程可达韩国与日本的“劳动”(Rodong)导弹。这两个国家都有人数上万的美国驻军。在最近举行的阅兵式上，朝鲜还展示了KN-08导弹。据说这是朝鲜首枚洲际弹道导弹，尽管它从来没有经过试射。
South Korean defense officials said that the Musudan was based on the design of an old Soviet submarine-launched ballistic missile. Some of the Soviet missile designers made their way to North Korea in the immediate post-Cold War era, Mr. Schilling of 38 North said in his post.
韩国国防部官员表示，“舞水端”是在一种老式苏联潜射弹道导弹基础上改良而来。在38 North网站发布的文章中，席林称，一些苏联导弹设计师在冷战刚结束的时期设法去了朝鲜。
“Working from old Soviet designs, even using old Soviet hardware, is no guarantee of success,” he said. “Such hardware will by now be at least 40 years old and perhaps not properly cared for given all that time.”
“在老式苏联设计基础上进行改良，就算使用了旧有的苏联硬件，也不能保证成功，”他说。“这些硬件到现在有至少40年了，考虑到时间已经这么久，保养状况可能也不是太好。”
The renewed efforts by North Korea to demonstrate its missile threats has come at a time when the West is trying to impose sanctions against the country in an effort to curb its nuclear program.
朝鲜再次努力显示自己的导弹威胁能力，恰逢西方试图对该国实施制裁，以遏制其核计划。
On Wednesday, the United States Treasury designated North Korea as a primary money launderer.
同样在周三，美国财政部将朝鲜认定为首要洗钱者。
The Treasury said it would seek to cut off from the American financial system any bank or company that conducted banking transactions with the North. Such a measure is bound to unsettle Chinese banks and is expected to be a point of discussion when Secretary of State John Kerry and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew meet with their Chinese counterparts in Beijing early next week.
财政部表示，它将寻求切断美国金融系统和任何与朝鲜有转账往来的银行或企业之间的联系。这样的措施势必会令中国的银行感到担忧。在国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)与财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)于下周初在北京与中国领导人会晤时，此事预计也将成为他们讨论的话题。
For years, the United States has sought to enlist help from China, North Korea’s single largest trade and aid provider, in its efforts to curb the North’s weapons ambitions. But analysts said Beijing was reluctant to enforce sanctions that could destabilize North Korea. China considers the North a strategic buffer between it and South Korea, where Washington has a military presence.
中国是朝鲜唯一的，也是最大的贸易伙伴和援助提供方。多年来，美国一直试图让中国帮助它一起遏制朝鲜的武器抱负。但分析人士指出，北京不愿对朝鲜实施可能会令该国崩溃的制裁。中国将朝鲜看作自己与有美国驻军存在的韩国之间的战略缓冲区。
In his meeting with Mr. Xi on Wednesday, Mr. Ri, the North Korean envoy, said his country would continue to expand its nuclear arsenal under Mr. Kim, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said on Thursday.
据朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)周四报道，周三与习近平会晤时，朝鲜特使李洙墉表示，在金正恩领导下，朝鲜将继续扩大其核武库。