SEOUL, South Korea —Three North Korean sailors have defected to South Korea after their ship strayed into the South’s waters over the weekend, the government here said on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——这里的政府周二表示，一艘朝鲜船只周末误入韩国水域后，船上三名朝鲜船员投奔韩国。
A North Korean ship with five sailors on board was found adrift on Saturday in waters near Ulleungdo, an island off the northeast coast of South Korea, the Unification Ministry in the South said in a news release. Their ship was sinking when the South Korean Coast Guard came to their rescue, the statement said.
韩国统一部在一份新闻发布中说，一艘载有五名船员的朝鲜船只上周六被发现在韩国东北部沿海的郁陵岛附近海域漂流。该声明说，韩国海岸警卫队把船员救起时，他们的船正在下沉。
Three of the five sailors told South Korean officials that they wanted to defect, the ministry said, while the others expressed wishes to return home.
统一部表示，五名船员中的三人对韩国官员说他们希望投奔，而其他两人表示要回国。
The South told the North on Monday that it would send the two home on Tuesday through Panmunjom, a village along the border that serves as a contact point between the two nations.
韩国在周一告诉朝鲜，将于周二通过板门店送这两人回国，板门店是边界线上的一个村庄，是朝韩两国进行接触的地方。
“The North demanded that all five be returned,” the ministry said. “But our Red Cross told the North that from a humanitarian standpoint we will respect the wishes of the three who have clearly expressed their intention to defect. We again told the North that we would repatriate the other two.”
韩国统一部说，“朝鲜要求将五人全部送回。但我们的红十字会告诉朝鲜，出于人道主义的立场，我们将尊重那三人的意愿，他们已明确表示打算投奔韩国。我们再次告诉朝鲜，我们会送另外两人回国。”
North Korean fishing boats occasionally drift into the South’s waters after developing engine trouble, and South Korea returns the sailors home unless they want to defect.
朝鲜渔船发生引擎故障后，偶尔会飘流到韩国海域，韩国会将船员送回朝鲜，除非他们想投奔韩国。
When such sailors have chosen to stay in the South, the North has accused South Korea of holding them against their will. South Korea has also accused the North of holding hundreds of fishermen from the South against their will after their ships strayed into or were taken in North Korean waters in the decades after the 1950-53 Korean War.
每当有船员选择留在韩国时，朝鲜都指责韩国违背船员的意愿将其扣留。韩国也指责朝鲜，在1950-53年朝鲜战争后的几十年里，当韩国渔船误入朝鲜水域、或被朝鲜收缴时，朝鲜违背渔民的意愿扣留了上百名韩国渔民。
More than 28,000 North Koreans have fled to the South since famine hit their isolated and impoverished country in the late 1990s. Nearly all of them traveled through China. But some have defected through the heavily guarded land or maritime borders between the Koreas.
自从20世纪90年代末，孤立和贫穷的朝鲜发生饥荒以来，已有逾2.8万名朝鲜人逃到韩国。所有这些人几乎都是通过中国来到韩国的。但是，也有些人是通过朝韩之间戒备森严的陆地或海上边界叛逃的。