SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Sunday held its first parliamentary elections under the leadership of Kim Jong-un, who was expected to use the polls and a newly elected legislature to elevate officials loyal to him and further consolidate his power.
韩国首尔——周日，朝鲜举行了金正恩领导下的首次立法机构选举。根据预期，他将利用这次投票以及选举产生的新立法机构，拔擢忠诚于他的官员，并进一步巩固自己的权力。
North Korea’s Supreme People’s Assembly has served as a rubber-stamp Parliament, endorsing whatever decisions were made by the top leader and his inner circles, who dominate the top echelons of the ruling Workers’ Party, the People’s Army and the government.
朝鲜最高人民会议(Supreme People’s Assembly)是该国的“橡皮图章”议会。最高领导人及其亲信把持着执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers’ Party)、人民军(People’s Army)和政府的最高职务，无论他们做出怎样的决定，最高人民会议都会支持。
In the last parliamentary election, held five years ago when Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, was still alive, a single candidate ran unopposed in each of the 687 districts, and all the deputies were elected with 100 percent support. The government reported voter turnout of 99.98 percent.
五年前举行上一次最高人民会议选举时，金正恩的父亲金正日仍然健在。在687个选区中，都是只有一个候选人参选，没有遇到任何反对，所有的代表都以100%的支持率当选。政府表示，投票率为99.98%。
The North Korean authorities run parliamentary elections as an effective political census, a chance to check up on the whereabouts and the political allegiance of citizens, as well as the ability of local Workers’ Party officials to mobilize residents. People pile into voting booths casting unmarked ballots in rapid succession. Those who oppose the state-selected candidate are supposedly allowed to pause to cross out the candidate’s name, effectively making the process a monitored event, according to defectors from the North.
朝鲜官方举行立法机构选举，实际作用是开展政治情况调查，借此机会检查公民的下落和政治忠诚度，同时也检查劳动党地方官员动员民众的能力。人们涌向投票站，一个接一个地迅速投下没有任何标记的选票。逃离朝鲜的脱北者透露，如果反对国家指定的候选人，理论上可以停下来给候选人的名字打叉，但这实际上会将自己置于监控之下。
Some of the North Koreans who entered China and ended up defecting to South Korea after the famine in their home country in the mid-1990s have said they did so because they feared punishment back home for failing to show up for parliamentary elections.
一些在上世纪90年代中期朝鲜发生饥荒后，进入中国境内并最终逃往韩国的朝鲜人说，他们之所以逃离朝鲜，是因为没有在最高人民会议选举中参加投票，留在朝鲜恐怕会受到惩罚。
On Sunday, the main party-run newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, urged North Koreans to fulfill their “duty” by showing a “single-minded solidarity” for Mr. Kim and his party.
周日，主要的党办报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)敦促朝鲜人履行“义务”，向金正恩和劳动党显示“万众一心的团结性”。
“Let’s all vote in agreement!” said a party poster that has lined the streets of Pyongyang and other North Korean cities in recent weeks.
最近几周在平壤以及朝鲜其他城市的街头到处张贴的海报写道，“全民齐心投票吧！”
In a country where major military, party and state officials double as legislators, the new parliamentary lineup emerging from Sunday’s election will provide outside analysts a glimpse of who is rising in and falling from Mr. Kim’s favor.
在朝鲜，重要的党政军角色也同时兼任代表，所以周日选举中最高人民会议的排位，可以让外界分析人士猜测哪些人受到了金正恩的青睐，哪些人已失宠。
Since he assumed power after the death of his father in December 2011, Mr. Kim has engineered a series of personnel changes and political purges among the elite that outside analysts said were aimed largely at eliminating potential challenges to his rule. The most dramatic purge unfolded in December when Jang Song-thaek, Mr. Kim’s uncle and the second-most powerful man in the North, was executed on charges of corruption and plotting to overthrow Mr. Kim.
自从金正恩在2011年12月其父去世后掌权以来，他在权贵阶层中实行了一系列人事变动和政治清洗。外界分析人士称，其目标是扫除可能对他的统治构成挑战的人。最富戏剧性的清洗事件发生在去年12月，金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)因被控腐败和谋划推翻金正恩而被处决，张成泽当时是朝鲜的二号人物。
The Supreme People’s Assembly is one of the last apparatuses of power going through an overhaul under Mr. Kim.
在金正恩治下，最高人民会议属于最后一批开展大调整的权力机关。
In the North Korean Constitution, the assembly has the power to adopt guidelines on crucial policy issues, like nuclear weapons development, and replace cabinet ministers and members of the National Defense Commission, the top governing agency, where Mr. Jang had been a senior member.
根据朝鲜宪法，最高人民会议有权为关键政策议题，如核武器研发，制定方针，有权撤换内阁部长和最高执政机关国防委员会(National Defense Commission)的成员。张成泽就曾在国防委员会担任高级职务。
With a newly elected Parliament filled with his own people, Mr. Kim will feel more confident in replacing Mr. Jang, his followers and others who have lost his favor, analysts said.
分析人士称，现在选举产生的新议会中都是自己的人，金正恩可以对张成泽及其下属，以及其他不再受宠者的撤换更加放心了。
Mr. Kim himself was running for a seat representing the district of Baekdusan, a mountain on the central border with China. Koreans consider the volcanic mountain the birthplace of their nation.
金正恩本人竞选的是白头山选区的席位。白头山位于中朝边界（在中国名为长白山——译注），朝韩两国民众认为这座火山是民族的发源地。
A select group of elite members and soldiers registered themselves as voters in the district. After casting their votes on Sunday, they broke out dancing, the North’s Central Television reported.
精心挑选的一些精英和士兵在这个选区注册投票。朝鲜中央电视台报道，他们在周日投下选票后，翩翩起舞。