SEOUL, South Korea — Satellite imagery suggests that North Korea may have begun producing fuel rods for its recently restarted nuclear reactor, a United States-based research institute said in a report published Tuesday.
韩国首尔——总部位于美国的一家研究机构在周二发布的一份报告中称，卫星图像显示，朝鲜或许已经开始为前不久重启的核反应堆生产燃料棒了。
The signs of new activity at North Korea’s main nuclear complex in Yongbyon, north of Pyongyang, follow the country’s repeated assertions that it is strengthening its capabilities to produce nuclear arms. North Korea, which has conducted three nuclear tests since 2006, the most recent in February, has used spent fuel rods from the reactor as a source for plutonium, a key component for nuclear weapons.
朝鲜主要的核设施位于平壤以北的宁边，有迹象表明宁边核设施出现了新的活动，在此之前，朝鲜曾多次声称自己正在加强制造核武器的能力。自2006年以来，朝鲜已经进行了三次核试验，最近的一次是在今年2月。朝鲜一直在用宁边反应堆的乏燃料棒来提取钚，钚是核武器的关键成分。
The five-megawatt reactor was restarted this year after a six-year hiatus. Its ability to produce plutonium again depends in part on how quickly North Korea can supply it with new fuel rods. North Korea is believed to have only 2,000 fuel rods in its inventory, a quarter of the 8,000 needed for a full load of fuel.
今年，朝鲜重启了沉寂六年的5兆瓦宁边核反应堆。反应堆再次生产钚的能力在一定程度上依赖于朝鲜为其提供新燃料棒的速度。据信，朝鲜只有2000根燃料棒的库存，只占反应堆满负荷运转所需8000根燃料棒的四分之一。
The U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University reported Tuesday on its website, 38 North, that a building in Yongbyon retooled to produce fresh fuel rods for the reactor appeared to be operational. The institute said it had reached that conclusion by analyzing commercial satellite images of the complex.
周二，约翰斯·霍普金斯大学美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University)在自己的网站38 North上通报称，宁边的一座建筑似乎处于运行状态，该建筑经过改造，可以为该反应堆生产新燃料棒。该研究所称，这一结论的依据是对商业卫星拍摄到的该设施图片的分析。
An old building once used to make fuel rods for the graphite-moderated reactor has been converted into a uranium-enrichment plant, which North Korea showed to American nuclear experts who visited in 2010.
一栋曾经用来为该石墨减速反应堆生产燃料棒的老建筑已经被改造成了一座铀浓缩工厂。2010年，朝鲜曾带领到访的美国核专家参观该工厂。
North Korea said it was enriching uranium to make a type of fuel needed for a separate light-water reactor it was building in Yongbyon. But highly enriched uranium can replace plutonium as fuel for nuclear weapons. Nonproliferation experts have expressed concern that the light-water reactor under construction in Yongbyon could be a cover for making bombs. North Korea itself has threatened to use all its nuclear facilities to expand its arsenal.
朝鲜方面称，自己进行铀浓缩的目的是生产一种燃料，供应宁边的另一座在建的轻水反应堆。但高浓缩铀可以取代钚，作为核武器的燃料。防核扩散专家已经表示担忧，称宁边那座在建的轻水反应堆可能是朝鲜制造核弹的幌子。朝鲜自己也曾威胁称，会利用一切核设施来扩充军备。
In a report on Dec. 5 for the Institute for Science and International Security, two nuclear experts, David Albright and Serena Kelleher-Vergantini, had reported steam rising from the fuel fabrication complex in Yongbyon, which they said could be a sign of reactor fuel production. On Tuesday, the U.S.-Korea Institute also identified another building in Yongbyon that it said could be used to produce fuel for the light-water reactor. The 25- to 30-megawatt light-water reactor may not become operational until late 2015 or 2016, it said.
12月5日，核专家戴维·奥尔布赖特(David Albright)和塞雷娜·凯莱赫-韦尔甘蒂尼(Serena Kelleher-Vergantini)在写给科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)的报告中称，宁边的燃料制备设施冒出了蒸汽，他们说，这可能表明朝鲜正在生产反应堆所需的燃料。周二，美韩研究所发现宁边还存在另一座建筑，称这座建筑也可用于生产轻水反应堆所需要的燃料。研究所表示，这个25至30兆瓦的轻水反应堆或许要到2015年年末或2016年才能投入使用。
“The identification of these facilities indicates a more wide-ranging, extensive effort by North Korea to modernize and restart the Yongbyon complex” than previously understood, the institute said.
美韩研究所称，“这些设施的存在表明，朝鲜对宁边核设施进行的现代化改造和重启工作”比之前人们所想的“范围更广、力度更大”。
Six-nation talks on ending North Korea’s nuclear ambitions collapsed in 2008. The next year, North Korea expelled United Nations nuclear monitors from Yongbyon. It has since begun reactivating the facilities there, which had been taken off-line under a short-lived nuclear disarmament deal.
2008年，关于结束朝鲜核项目的六方会谈宣告破裂。第二年，朝鲜把联合国核查员赶出了宁边。自那时起，朝鲜一直在努力重启宁边核设施。之前，依照一个维持时间很短的核裁军协议，朝鲜关闭了该设施。
North Korea recently said that it was willing to resume the six-nation talks. But Washington and its allies, saying that they were cheated by the North during the earlier negotiations, do not plan to rejoin the talks and will continue to apply economic sanctions until North Korea demonstrates its willingness to give up its nuclear weapons.
朝鲜近日表示愿意恢复六方会谈。但美国及其盟友称，朝鲜在之前的谈判中欺骗了他们，除非朝鲜表现出放弃核武器的意愿，否则他们不打算重新加入谈判，并且会继续对朝鲜实施经济制裁。
Separately on Tuesday, an Irish betting company that had been sponsoring Dennis Rodman’s basketball initiative in North Korea said it had cut its ties with Mr. Rodman, a former N.B.A. star. In a statement reported by news agencies, Paddy Power, the largest online gambling company in Europe, said that the decision “was really a reaction to the worldwide focus and total condemnation of the North Korea regime over recent events,” and that “we don’t want to be associated with that.”
此外，一直为前NBA球星丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)在朝鲜的篮球项目提供资助的一家爱尔兰博彩公司于周二表示，公司已经与罗德曼划清界限。据新闻机构报道，欧洲最大的互联网博彩公司Paddy Power在声明中称，这个决定“其实是为了回应世界对朝鲜政权近期举动的关注和严厉谴责”，还说“我们不想与这些事情有任何瓜葛”。
Over the past few weeks, the uncle of Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, was purged and executed on charges of sedition, raising concerns about factionalism and rivalries in the country’s secretive government. South Korean and American officials have said they believe the uncle, Jang Song-thaek, who was more than twice Mr. Kim’s age and was once considered the No. 2 power in the country, had engaged in a power struggle with Mr. Kim over who would profit from North Korean exports.
过去几周，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑父因煽动颠覆的罪名遭到清洗和处决，致使人们怀疑，朝鲜的诡秘政府内部出现了派别斗争。韩国和美国官员称，他们认为，金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)与金正恩展开了权力斗争，争斗的焦点是谁该从朝鲜的出口活动当中获利。张成泽比金正恩年长一倍有余，曾被视作朝鲜的二号人物。
Mr. Rodman, who has said he considers Mr. Kim a friend, finished his latest trip to the country on Monday. Paddy Power said that Mr. Rodman would proceed with his plan to hold an exhibition game in Pyongyang on Jan. 8, Mr. Kim’s birthday, between a North Korean basketball team and a team of former N.B.A. players.
周一，自称视金正恩为朋友的罗德曼结束了最近一次的朝鲜之旅。博彩公司Paddy Power称，罗德曼将继续自己的计划，于1月8日金正恩生日当天在平壤举办一场表演赛，参赛双方分别是朝鲜篮球队和前NBA球员组成的球队。