SEOUL, South Korea — South and North Korea agreed on Saturday to resume high-level talks this year, raising hopes for a thaw in the long-tense relations on the divided peninsula.
韩国首尔——韩国和朝鲜周六同意在今年恢复高级别会谈，增加了人们对分裂的朝鲜半岛上为时已久的紧张关系解冻的希望。
A statement from South Korea announcing the agreement did not specify what would be discussed. But South Korea had proposed in August that officials on the vice ministerial level meet to discuss a new round of reunions of family members separated by the Korean War six decades ago, a program that has proceeded in fits and starts for years as inter-Korean relations have fluctuated.
韩国发布的达成协议的声明，没有明确说明会谈将讨论什么问题。不过，韩国曾在8月提议，双方副部级以上官员会面，商讨新一轮的家庭成员团聚计划，这些家庭因六十年前的朝鲜战争而离散，多年来，家庭团聚计划随着韩朝关系的起伏，时断时续。
The North had rejected the August overture, insisting that Seoul first stop activists in the South from sending balloons into North Korea bearing antigovernment propaganda.
朝鲜拒绝了韩国8月的提议，坚决要求首尔先停止韩国活动人士向朝鲜发放携带反政府宣传品的气球的做法。
But a breakthrough appeared to come Saturday, when top South Korean policy makers met with a North Korean delegation visiting the city of Incheon to attend the closing ceremony of the Asian Games, a surprise visit that South Korea announced just an hour before the officials’ arrival. The delegation included three of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un’s most trusted aides.
但是在周六，当韩国高层官员与前来仁川市参加亚运会闭幕式的朝鲜代表团会面时，看来一个突破出现了。朝鲜代表团的到访出人意料，韩国官员只是在代表团到达之前一小时才宣布来访。朝鲜代表团成员包括领导人金正恩最信任的三名助手。
During the meeting Saturday, the two sides agreed to resume formal dialogue between late October and early November, the South’s Ministry of National Unification said in a statement. “While calling the upcoming talks a second round of dialogue, the North explained that it intended to hold more rounds of South-North talks in the future,” the statement said.
韩国的国家统一部在一份声明中说，双方在周六会面时同意，将在10月底至11月初这段时间里恢复正式会谈。声明说，“朝鲜称即将举行的会谈为第二轮对话，并解释说，它打算在未来举行更多轮的南北会谈。”
The mention of a “second round” appeared to refer to the last time officials met to discuss the family reunions, in February. Soon after that meeting, hundreds of aging Koreans from both sides of the border were allowed to hold emotional family reunions at a North Korean resort. No further reunions have been held since then.
“第二轮”的说法似乎与官员上次在2月份会面讨论家庭团聚有关。那次会谈后不久，数百名来自韩国和朝鲜的老年人获许在朝鲜的一个度假地举行情绪激动的家庭团聚。那之后，再没有过家庭团聚活动。