Tit-for-tat tension on the Korean Peninsula is often described as “a war of words,” but just as frequently it is a war of pictures, too.
朝鲜半岛上针锋相对的紧张局势经常被形容为“口水战”，但也常常是影像之战。
North Korea’s test on Tuesday of an intermediate-range missile that flew for 1,700 miles and passed over Japan before crashing into the sea was the latest provocation by the isolated government in Pyongyang.
朝鲜周二测试的一枚中程导弹，飞行1700英里（约2700公里），越过日本之后坠入了大海，这是遭到孤立的平壤政府做出的最新挑衅之举。
Following the missile test, and fired with similarly homespun precision, was a volley of propaganda from North Korea that included photos of the launch and Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader.
在试射导弹之后，朝鲜又以同等乏善可陈的精准度开展了一场宣传活动，发布了导弹试射以及该国领导人金正恩的照片。
A photograph released by the Korean Central News Agency, the North’s state news agency, shows a beaming Mr. Kim surrounded by military officers reportedly taken at the launch site, a clear sign of his personal involvement in the exercise.
朝鲜的官方通讯社朝中社发布的一张据说摄于发射场的照片显示，容光焕发的金正恩被军官所围绕，这是他亲自参与这个演习的明显迹象。
If the smile on Mr. Kim’s face does not clearly indicate his pleasure with the country’s latest “muscle flexing,” as K.C.N.A. put it, the agency made clear that he “expressed great satisfaction over the successful launching.” The test was part of a broader plan for “containing Guam,” a United States territory in the Pacific.
如果金正恩脸上的笑容还不够清楚地表明他对该国最近“秀肌肉”的喜悦，那么朝中社明确表示，他“对成功发射感到非常满意”。这个测试是“覆盖关岛”计划的一部分。关岛是美国位于太平洋的领土。
Not to be outdone, the South Koreans returned fire on Tuesday with their own saber-rattling threats and camera-shaking video of test missile launches and warplanes conducting target practice.
韩国人不甘示弱，周二他们也发出了武力威胁，还发布了镜头摇晃的视频，显示导弹试射和战机攻击目标的过程。
South Korea released footage on Tuesday of a previously undisclosed missile test it said it conducted last week. The footage showed two missiles being launched, one with a 310-mile range and the other with a 500-mile range, which the government said were part of its pre-emptive strike strategy against the North.
韩国本周二公布了以前未公开的导弹试验镜头。视频显示了两枚导弹的发射过程，一枚射程为310英里（约合500公里），另一枚为500英里（约合800公里），政府表示，这是针对朝鲜的先发制人打击战略的一部分。
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea ordered his military on Tuesday to “demonstrate a strong retaliatory capability against North Korea.” The government later released images of four F-15K jets dropping bombs at a South Korean target range in what the country’s air force called a practice to “destroy the enemy leadership” in the event of war.
韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)周二命令军方“展示出强大的报复朝鲜的能力”，随后，韩国政府发布了四架F-15K喷气式飞机在韩国境内一个靶场投弹的画面，该国空军说这个演习是为了战争发生时“摧毁敌方领导层”。
The United States also got into the act, announcing Wednesday morning that guided missiles launched from the USS John Paul Jones had successfully shot down a medium-range ballistic missile during a test conducted off the coast of Hawaii.
美国也采取了行动，周三上午他们宣布，在夏威夷海岸进行的一次试验中，从约翰·保罗·琼斯号驱逐舰(USS John Paul Jones)发射的制导导弹成功击落了一枚中程弹道导弹。
The United States regularly tests its missile defense systems, and this was the second time one of its Standard Missile-6 missiles successfully intercepted a medium-range ballistic missile, said the Missile Defense Agency, which is part of the U.S. Defense Department.
美国定期对导弹防御系统进行测试，美国国防部的导弹防御局(Missile Defense Agency)说，这是其标准六型导弹(Standard Missile-6)第二次成功拦截了一枚中程弹道导弹。