SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Friday that Jang Song-thaek, the uncle of its leader Kim Jong-un and considered his mentor, was executed for trying to mobilize the military to stage a coup.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周五表示，朝鲜领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)已因企图动员军方发动政变而遭处决，张成泽曾被认为是金正恩的导师。
Mr. Jang, 67, was executed on Thursday, immediately after he was convicted in a special military court on charges of violating the North’s criminal code, according to the state-run Korean Central News Agency.
据朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，周四，一个特别军事法庭以违反朝鲜刑法的种种罪名判处67岁的张成泽死刑，并在宣判之后立即执行了处决。
“He lost his mind due to his greed for power,” the news agency reported. “He persistently plotted to spread his evil design into the military, believing that he could overthrow the leadership if he could mobilize the military.”
朝中社报道称，“他被权力冲昏了头脑。他一意孤行地密谋在军中散布自己策划的恶毒阴谋，认为只要他能发动军队，就能推翻领导人。”
Even before the execution, the purge had raised worries in the United States and South Korea that Mr. Kim might now lash out at those he considers enemies, possibly staging another nuclear test or instigating a conflict with the South at sea. China, the North’s patron, was also unnerved by mounting evidence of an internal power struggle that could destabilize its already troublesome ally.
早在张成泽被处决之前，朝鲜的这次清洗行动就已经引发美国和韩国的担忧，他们担心，金正恩现在可能会对他所认定的敌对势力发动攻击，也许会再次进行核试验，或者挑起和韩国的海上冲突。日渐增多的迹象也让朝鲜的保护者中国感到不安，因为这些迹象表明朝鲜内部出现了权力斗争，可能会让这个已然麻烦缠身的中国盟友发生动荡。
Mr. Jang, believed to be the second most powerful man in the country, was the most prominent North Korean purged and executed under Mr. Kim, whom South Korean officials said was resorting to “a reign of terror” in an attempt to consolidate his power in the isolated, nuclear-armed North. Mr. Jang is the husband of Kim Kyong-hee, a sister of Kim Jong-il, the late North Korean leader and Mr. Kim’s father.
张成泽据信是朝鲜的二号权势人物，也是金正恩上台后遭到清洗和处决的最有名的朝鲜人。韩国官员称，金正恩正在借助“恐怖统治”，试图巩固自己在朝鲜这个拥有核武器的封闭国家的权力。张成泽是金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hee)的丈夫，而金敬姬则是朝鲜已故领导人、金正恩之父金正日(Kim Jong-il)的妹妹。
Mr. Jang had been a fixture in the North Korean elite for the past 40 years, serving in major party posts under Kim Jong-il.
在过去40多年里，张成泽在朝鲜精英阶层中地位稳固，曾在金正日手下担任多个党内重要职位。
On Sunday, North Korea stripped Mr. Jang of all his powerful posts and expelled him from the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea during a meeting of the Political Bureau of the party’s Central Committee. Then, in an extraordinary departure from its traditional secrecy over its internal politics, the country announced on Monday the details of Mr. Jang’s “anti-party,” “anti-revolutionary” crimes, accusing him of building a “faction” to undermine Mr. Kim’s leadership.
周日，在执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers' Party of Korea) 中央委员会政治局的一次会议上，朝鲜解除了张成泽的一切重要职务，并将其开除出党。然后，朝鲜一反对内部政治实行保密的传统，在周一公布了张成泽“反党”、“反革命”罪行的细节，指控他组建“宗派”，破坏金正恩的领导。
Such a condemnation appeared to have sealed Mr. Jang’s fate, with some analysts saying at the time that they believed that Mr. Jang would be killed. North Korean media has since begun a hate-campaign against Mr. Jang and his “followers,” quoting steel workers as saying that they wanted to “throw them into a furnace.” Still, some analysts had doubted Mr. Kim would go as far as executing a man who was related to his family by marriage.
这样的指控似乎决定了张成泽的命运，一些分析人士在指控公布时就表示，他们认为张成泽会被处死。从那时起，朝鲜媒体开始了一场针对张成泽及其“党羽”的仇恨宣传，援引了钢铁工人称想“把他们扔进火炉”的说辞。然而，一些分析人士当时仍然怀疑，金正恩不至于处决一个和自己家族有姻亲关系的人。