SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea fired a ballistic missile over Japan on Friday, a bold test that defied the new sanctions resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council earlier this week as well as repeated warnings from around the world that the country should stop raising tensions.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周五不顾联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)本周早些时候通过的新制裁决议和世界各地对其应停止加剧紧张局势的反复警告，发射了一枚飞越日本上空的弹道导弹。
The missile blasted off from near the Sunan International Airport north of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew about 2,300 miles, flying over northern Japan, the South Korean military said in a statement. The missile reached a maximum altitude of 478 miles.
韩国军方在一份声明中说，导弹从朝鲜首都平壤北部的顺安国际机场(Sunan International Airport)发射升空，途经日本北部上空，飞行了大约2300英里（约合3700公里）。导弹最大飞行高度达478英里（约合769公里）。
In Japan, an alert was issued on television and via cellphones, warning people to take shelter inside a building or underground. The Japanese government said the missile landed in waters about 1,240 east of the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido.
日本通过电视和手机发布警报，警告民众在建筑物内部或地下寻求庇护。日本政府称导弹坠入了日本北部岛屿北海道以东约1240英里（约合1996公里）的水域。
In Tokyo, Yoshihide Suga, chief cabinet secretary to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, said that Japan “absolutely cannot accept the repeated outrageous provocative actions by North Korea” and lodged an official protest with the North, “conveying the strong fury of the Japanese people as well as condemning the action with the strongest words.”South Korean officials said they were still analyzing the flight data to determine what type of missile was launched. In any event, it flew farther than any other missile North Korea has fired.
在东京，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)称，日本“绝不能接受朝鲜屡次肆无忌惮的挑衅行为”，并已向朝鲜正式提出抗议，“传达日本民众的强烈不满并用最严厉的言辞谴责这种行为”。韩国官员说他们仍在分析飞行数据，以确定此次发射的导弹类型。不管怎样，这枚导弹的飞行距离超过了朝鲜之前发射的所有导弹。
As the missile blasted off at 6:57 a.m. on Friday, South Korea almost simultaneously launched its Hyunmoo-2 ballistic missile off its east coast in a simulated pre-emptive attack, South Korean defense officials said.
韩国防务官员称，在朝鲜的导弹周五清晨6点57分发射升空时，韩国几乎同时从东部沿海发射了自己的玄武-2(Hyunmoo-2)弹道导弹，模拟先发制人的打击。
President Moon Jae-in approved the South Korean missile launching and ordered his national security council to meet to discuss the latest North Korean missile test. Mr. Moon, a proponent of dialogue with North Korea, has joined Washington in campaigning for tougher sanctions and pressure against the North after its nuclear test this month.
韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)批准了此次导弹发射，并下令他领导的国家安全委员会召开会议，讨论朝鲜最近这次导弹试验。在朝鲜本月的核试验过后，倡导与朝鲜对话的文在寅已加入华盛顿阵营，力求对朝鲜实施更严厉的制裁并向其施压。
It was the 15th missile test by North Korea this year and the first since North Korea detonated its most powerful nuclear bomb to date on Sept. 3.
这是朝鲜今年进行的第15次导弹试验，也是朝鲜在9月3日引爆迄今为止威力最大的核弹后进行的首次导弹试验。
In retaliation against the nuclear test, the United Nations Security Council adopted a new sanctions resolution against North Korea on Tuesday, its ninth since the country’s first nuclear test in 2006. If enforced, it would deprive North Korea of 30 percent of its annual fuel imports. It also bans textile imports from North Korea, stripping the country of another key source of hard currency.
为了报复那次核试验，联合国安理会周二通过了一项针对朝鲜的新制裁决议。这是自朝鲜2006年首次进行核试验以来，安理会通过的第九个决议。如果得到实施，决议将导致朝鲜的年燃料进口减少30%。决议还禁止从朝鲜进口纺织品，这将导致朝鲜失去另一个关键的硬通货来源。
But North Korea, already heavily sanctioned, has remained defiant, vowing to “redouble the efforts to increase its strength to safeguard the country’s sovereignty and right to existence” and to establish “the practical equilibrium with the U.S.”
但已经受到严厉制裁的朝鲜依然态度强硬，发誓要“巩固力量，捍卫国家主权和生存权”，并“与美国保持实际上的平衡”。
On the eve of the latest missile test, a North Korean government organization said that the United States should be “beaten to death” like a “rabid dog” for spearheading new United Nations sanctions and that its ally Japan should be “sunken into the sea.”
在进行最近这次导弹试验的前夕，朝鲜的一个政府机构称领导联合国新制裁的美国应该被像“疯狗”一样“打死”，其盟友日本应该被“沉入大海”。
“Now is the time to annihilate the U.S. imperialist aggressors,” a spokesman for the North’s Korea Asia-Pacific Peace Committee said Thursday, according the country’s official Korean Central News Agency. “Let’s reduce the US mainland into ashes and darkness.”
“现在是时候摧毁美帝国主义侵略者了，”据朝鲜官方的朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，朝鲜亚太和平委员会(Korea Asia-Pacific Peace Committee)的发言人周四说。“让咱们把美国本土化为灰烬和黑暗。”
The unidentified spokesman accused Japan of “dancing to the tune of the U.S.” and warned of a “telling blow” against Japan. “The four islands of the archipelago should be sunken into the sea by the nuclear bomb of Juche,” he said, referring to the North’s ruling philosophy of juche, or self-reliance.
这位姓名不详的发言人谴责日本“对美国言听计从”，并警告要给日本“有力的一击”。“这个群岛之国的四座岛屿应该被主体思想的核弹沉入大海，”他说。这里的主体思想指的是朝鲜的统治理念。
In its previous missile test, conducted on Aug. 29, North Korea fired its intermediate-range ballistic missile Hwasong-12 from the Sunan International Airport. The missile arched over Hokkaido island and splashed into the northern Pacific, after a flight of nearly 1,700 miles.
在之前于8月29日进行的那次导弹试验中，朝鲜从顺安国际机场发射了一枚火星-12(Hwasong-12)中程弹道导弹。这枚导弹飞越北海道上空，在飞行了近1700英里（约合2736公里）后坠入北太平洋。
North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, has since threatened to launch more missiles into the Pacific.
自那以后，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)便威胁要向太平洋发射更多导弹。
South Korean officials had said earlier this month that intelligence reports indicated the North Koreans planned to test an intercontinental ballistic missile. The North’s scientists have for decades worked to build both a nuclear device small enough to fit on the tip of a long-range missile.
韩国官员本月早些时候表示，情报报告显示，朝鲜计划试射一枚洲际弹道导弹。数十年来，朝鲜的科学家一直致力于打造一台小到可以装载在远程导弹顶端的核装置。
The North’s missile program had been known more for failures than successes until it made a rush of advances this year. Analysts say a powerful new engine lies behind a string of successful tests, and as a result, the North has increased the frequency and potency of its experiments.
朝鲜的导弹计划一直以失败而非成功出名，直到今年取得一连串的进步。分析人士称，一连串成功的试验背后是一款大功率的新发动机，朝鲜因此而增加了实验的频率和强度。
On July 28, the North tested an intercontinental ballistic missile that reached an altitude of 2,300 miles and that experts said had the potential to hit the West Coast of the United States.
7月28日，朝鲜试射了一枚洲际弹道导弹，飞行高度达2300英里（约合3701公里）。专家称，这枚导弹具备击中美国西海岸的潜力。
The recent missile tests have been made more troubling — and provocative — by the North’s pursuit of nuclear weapons. This month, the country detonated its largest nuclear bomb to date, a device four to 16 times larger than anything it had previously tested, according to experts.
朝鲜对核武器的追求让最近的导弹试验变得更加令人不安，也更具有挑衅性。本月，朝鲜引爆了迄今为止最大的核弹。据专家称，它的大小是朝鲜之前试验过的任何一台装置的4到16倍。
The nuclear and missile tests have strained the region’s nerves, led to an additional round of international sanctions and challenged the Trump administration to project a cohesive policy on the conflict.
核武器和导弹试验导致该地区神经紧绷，引发了又一轮国际制裁，并要求特朗普政府就这场冲突制定一个凝聚政策。
Last month, Mr. Trump threatened that North Korea “will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen” if the country continued its provocations.
上月，特朗普威胁称，如果继续挑衅，朝鲜“将会承受前所未见的炮火与怒火”。
Soon after, the North said “an enveloping fire” would surround Guam, an American territory in the western Pacific where the United States operates an Air Force base. Guam, like South Korea and Japan, is a likely target of the North’s aggression, should the conflict on the Korean Peninsula escalate.
不久后，朝鲜称要让关岛“陷入烈焰的包围”。关岛位于西太平洋，是美国的领土，那里有一个美国的空军基地。和韩国、日本一样，如果朝鲜半岛的冲突升级，关岛可能会成为朝鲜的攻击目标。
In August, the United Nations imposed punishing sanctions on North Korea.
8月，联合国对朝鲜实行惩罚性制裁。