SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea marked its government’s 69th anniversary not with another missile test, as many had feared, but with a gala party for the scientists involved in carrying out the country’s most powerful nuclear test yet last week, the state-run news media reported on Sunday.
韩国首尔——根据朝鲜官方新闻机构的报道，朝鲜没有像之前很多人担心的那样，用另一次导弹试验来庆祝国庆69周年，而是为参与上周该国最具威力的核试验的科学家们举行了庆功会。
The country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, celebrated the national holiday on Saturday by bringing his nuclear scientists and engineers to Pyongyang, the capital, and holding a banquet.
周六，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)把核试验科学家和工程师们聚集到首都平壤，举行宴会，庆祝这个国家节日。
On their way from the country’s underground nuclear test site in northeast North Korea to Pyongyang, the technicians had been cheered by people who poured out to see them passing by, the country’s official Korean Central News Agency reported. And upon their arrival in the city, on Wednesday, they were met with a hero’s welcome, including a huge outdoor rally and firecrackers.
据朝鲜官方新闻机构朝中社报道称，这些科学家从朝鲜东北部的地下核试验场到平壤的路上，受到民众夹道欢迎。周三，他们到达平壤后，获得英雄般的款待，包括一个大型户外集会和烟火表演。
North Korea described the test, on Sept. 3, as the detonation of a hydrogen bomb that could be delivered on a missile. Mr. Kim’s government called it “a merciless sledgehammer blow to the U.S. imperialists.”
朝鲜称9月3日的试验引爆了一枚可搭载在导弹上的氢弹。金正恩政府称，它“狠狠打击了美帝国主义者”。
Outside officials and analysts had feared that the country would commemorate the birthday of its government on Saturday by conducting another weapons test, possibly launching another intercontinental ballistic missile.
外界官员和分析人士曾担心，该国会在周六以武器试验来庆祝该国国庆，可能是再发射一枚洲际弹道导弹。
South Korean officials predicted that such a missile test was almost certain to happen soon, particularly given the tougher sanctions being considered by the United Nations Security Council. On Friday, Washington called for the Council to vote on a draft resolution Monday that would impose new sanctions on North Korea for its latest nuclear test.
韩国官员们估计，此类导弹试验几乎确定会很快发生，尤其是考虑到联合国安理会正在考虑对其实施更严厉的制裁。周五，华盛顿要求安理会于周一就一个决议草案进行投票，针对最近的核试验对朝鲜实施新的制裁措施。
During the banquet on Saturday, Mr. Kim spurred his engineers to make “redoubled efforts, not slackening the spirit displayed by them in bringing the great auspicious event of the national history,” the North Korean news agency said.
朝中社报道称，在周六的宴会上，金正恩鼓励他的工程师们“不要放松以氢弹试验的完全成功带来民族历史上的大喜事、特大事件的斗争气概，应再接再厉”。
“ ‘The recent test of the H-bomb is the great victory won by the Korean people at the cost of their blood while tightening their belts in the arduous period,’ ” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying. “He put forward the tasks for the scientists and technicians in the field of defense science to conduct scientific researches for bolstering up the nuclear deterrence of self-defense in the drive to attain the final goal of completing the state nuclear force.”
“‘此次打响的氢弹爆炸声，是朝鲜人民在艰难时期勒紧腰带，用血的代价换来的伟大胜利，’ ”该报道引用金正恩的话说。“金正恩就国防科学部门科技工作者在占领完善国家核力量终结阶段目标的斗争中，竭诚拥护党的并举路线，野心勃勃地更加大力开展巩固自卫性核遏制力的科研工作，提出了任务。”
North Korea launched two ICBMs in July, the last of which demonstrated the potential of reaching the mainland United States.
7月，朝鲜发射了两枚洲际弹道导弹，最后一枚展示出能够打到美国本土的潜力。
But North Korea has yet to demonstrate that its warhead would not burn up while re-entering the atmosphere or that it could hit a target with reasonable accuracy, analysts said. The county would probably focus on mastering such technologies in future tests, they said.
但分析人士表示，朝鲜尚未表明，它的弹头在再次进入大气层时不会燃烧，或者能以足够的精度击中目标。他们说，该国很可能会在未来的实验中把注意力放在这些技术的掌握上。
Mr. Kim attended his banquet with his wife, Ri Sol-ju, and top members of his ruling Workers’ Party. The party included performances and patriotic songs swearing loyalty to the party and Mr. Kim, the North Korean news media said.
金正恩和妻子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)以及执政党劳动党的高级官员们出席了宴会。据朝中社报道称，宴会上还有效忠该党和金正恩的表演和爱国歌曲。
In its report on the banquet, the state news agency mentioned the names of two senior party officials, Ri Man-gon and Hong Sung-mu. Mr. Ri is North Korea’s minister of defense industries, and Mr. Hong is his deputy. As such, they are in charge of the country’s nuclear weapons development.
在对这次宴会的报道中，朝中社提到了两名高级党内官员的名字——李万建(Ri Man-gon)和洪承武(Hong Sung-mu)。李万建是朝鲜军需工业部部长，洪承武是副部长。他们负责该国的核武器发展计划。
Mr. Hong accompanied Mr. Kim, the leader, during his recent visit to his country’s Nuclear Weapons Institute, where the head of the institute, Ri Hong-sop, briefed Mr. Kim about what was called a hydrogen bomb. Hours after the photo of the three men together was carried in the North Korean media on Sept. 3, the country conducted its nuclear test.
金正恩对该国核武器研究所的最近一次视察由洪承武陪同，所长李洪燮(Ri Hong-sop)向金正恩汇报了他们所说的氢弹。9月3日，朝鲜媒体发布三人在一起的照片之后数小时，该国进行了核试验。
Later, the North Korean media carried a photo of Mr. Hong and Ri Hong-sop in military uniforms bearing a four-star and a three-star insignia, respectively, and receiving flowers during a ceremony. Mr. Ri once served as director of North Korea’s atomic energy institute at its main nuclear complex in Yongbyon, the birthplace of the North’s nuclear weapons program.
后来，朝鲜媒体发布了洪承武和李洪燮身穿四星和三星徽章军装，在一个仪式上接受献花的照片。李洪燮曾担任朝鲜原子能研究所所长，该所位于朝鲜核武器计划诞生地宁边的主要核建筑群中。
All three men, Ri Man-gon, Hong Sung-mu and Ri Hong-sop, have been placed on United Nations sanctions lists.
李万建、洪承武和李洪燮都已被列入联合国的制裁名单。