SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea fired a ballistic missile toward the sea off its east coast on Wednesday, a day after President Park Geun-hye ofSouth Korea said her government remained firm in its plan to deploy an advanced American missile defense system despite protests at home and from China.
韩国首尔——周三，朝鲜在其东海岸朝大海发射了一枚弹道导弹。一天前，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)表示，尽管遭到来自国内和中国的抗议，她的政府依然坚持其部署美国先进导弹防御系统的计划。
The North Korean missile, a midrange Rodong missile, was fired from Eunyul, near the country’s southwestern tip, at 7:50 a.m. It flew 620 miles before plunging into waters off the east coast, the South Korean military said in a statement.
早晨7点50分，朝鲜从靠近朝鲜西南端的殷栗发射了这枚中程劳动(Rodong)导弹。韩国军方发声明称，这枚导弹飞行了620英里，之后坠入东海岸附近水域。
“By launching a ballistic missile that can be tipped with a nuclear warhead in the future, North Korea directly and blatantly demonstrated its provocative ambition to target seaports and airfields across South Korea and even its neighboring countries,” the military’s statement said.
“通过发射在未来可以装载核弹头的弹道导弹，朝鲜明目张胆地表露了挑衅性的野心，要将韩国的海港、机场乃至其邻国列为打击目标，”声明称。
The United States Strategic Command, which monitors North Korean missile tests, said the North fired two missiles on Wednesday, one of them exploding immediately after launch.
对朝鲜核试验进行监测的美军战略司令部(United States Strategic Command)表示，朝鲜在周三发射了两枚导弹，其中一枚在发射后马上发生了爆炸。
The launch was the North’s first ballistic missile test since it tested a Scud-type short-range missile and two midrange Rodong ballistic missiles on July 19. United Nations Security Council resolutions have barred North Korea from developing ballistic missiles.
这是朝鲜自7月19日试射一枚飞毛腿(Scud)式短程导弹和两枚中程劳动弹道导弹以来，首次试射弹道导弹。此前，联合国安理会已经通过决议，禁止朝鲜研发弹道导弹。
North Korea was thought to have launched those missiles last month to demonstrate a capability to strike South Korea despite the South’s plan to deploy the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense battery, known as Thaad, in the town of Seongju by the end of next year, analysts said.
外界认为，朝鲜在上月发射这些导弹，是为了展示自己具备打击韩国的能力，尽管韩国已经计划于明年年底之前在星州郡部署末段高空区域防御系统（Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”）。
South Korea and the United States announced plans last month to deploy the advanced missile defense system in Seongju, saying that it would defend South Korea as well as American troops in the country.
韩国和美国上月宣布了在星州郡部署这一先进导弹防御系统的计划。两国表示，该系统将用于保护韩国和美国在该国的驻军。
But people in Seongju and many opposition lawmakers have protested the decision. Villagers there said they feared that the powerful radar from the missile defense system might harm their health, a concern the government called groundless.
但星州人以及很多反对派议员都对这一决定表示抗议。那里的居民说，他们担心来自该导弹防御系统的高强度雷达信号会危害他们的健康，政府称这种担心毫无依据。
Analysts and politicians in South Korea also remained divided over whether the new system, which is designed to intercept enemy missiles at high altitude, could protect the South from the North’s short-range missiles.
部署这一新系统是为了在高空拦截敌人发射的导弹，但关于该系统能否保护韩国不受朝鲜发射的短程导弹威胁，韩国的分析人士和政客依然意见不一。
In a meeting with her cabinet on Tuesday, Ms. Park warned that “a host of malicious rumors” about the antimissile system “were shaking the foundation of national security.’’
周二，朴槿惠在内阁会议上警告说，与这一导弹防御系统有关的“大量恶意谣言正在撼动国土安全的根基”。
On Wednesday, Park Jie-won, an opposition leader, accused Ms. Park of having what he called the “totalitarian” habit of attacking dissident views as malicious rumors.
周三，反对派领导人朴智源(Park Jie-won)指责朴槿惠习惯于把异见斥为恶意谣言，他说这种习惯带有“极权主义”色彩。
Many South Koreans also fear that deploying the new system might undermine their country’s relations with China.
许多韩国人还担心，部署这一新系统可能会损害韩国和中国的关系。
Shares of South Korean entertainment companies that export TV dramas, movies and music to China declined on Tuesday after some media outlets in Hong Kong and China speculated that Beijing’s broadcasting regulators might put restrictions on South Korean content in retaliation for deployment of the antimissile system.
香港和中国大陆的一些媒体纷纷猜测，为了报复韩国部署萨德之举，北京的广电监管机构或许会对韩国出品的内容加以限制。周二，部分向中国出口电视剧、电影和音乐的韩国娱乐公司股价下跌。
China, Russia and North Korea have all criticized the deployment, saying it represented a threat to their security, while the United States, Japan and South Korea called for a better protection from North Korean threats.
中国、俄罗斯和朝鲜都批评了部署该系统的决定，声称这会威胁到他们的安全，而美国、日本和韩国则呼吁更好地防范来自朝鲜的威胁。