SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Thursday that it had destroyed its only known nuclear test site, three weeks before its leader, Kim Jong-un, had been planning to meet with President Trump.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周四表示已销毁了外界所知的该国唯一的核试验基地，原定在三周后，朝鲜领导人金正恩将与美国总统特朗普举行会谈。
But only hours after the North Korean announcement, Mr. Trump said he had decided to cancel the meeting “based on the tremendous anger and open hostility” displayed by Mr. Kim’s government in recent statements.
但是，在朝鲜作出这一宣布仅仅几个小时之后，特朗普说，他已决定将会谈取消，“原因是”金正恩政府在最近几次声明中表现出“极大的愤怒和公开的敌意”。
North Korea allowed a select group of journalists from Britain, China, Russia, South Korea and the United States to watch its engineers destroy and close tunnels in its mountainous Punggye-ri test site, where the country has conducted all six of its nuclear tests. No independent outside nuclear monitors were invited to verify the dismantlement of the site.
朝鲜批准了来自英国、中国、俄罗斯、韩国和美国的一个经过挑选的记者队，在位于丰溪里山区的核实验场观看了该国工程师销毁和关闭隧道。朝鲜所有的六次核试验都是在这个试验场进行的。国外的独立核监察员未被邀请前来核实试验场的拆除。
In the ceremony on Thursday, North Korea used explosives to destroy three of its four tunnels at the Punggye-ri test site, according to dispatches by reporters at the scene. The fourth tunnel had already been closed for fear of contamination after the North’s first nuclear test in 2006.
根据记者发自现场的报道，在周四的仪式上，朝鲜用炸药炸毁了丰溪里试验场四个隧道中的三个。朝鲜在2006年进行了第一次核试验后，由于担心污染，已经关闭了第四条隧道。
The North Koreans also blew up test-observation facilities, as well as barracks for site personnel and a metal foundry, the reports said. Two dozen international journalists were invited to witness explosives rigged inside the tunnels, and they were then escorted outside to viewing decks 500 yards away, where they filmed the detonations.
报道说，朝鲜还炸毁了观察核试验的设施，以及现场人员的营房和一个金属铸造厂。20多名国际记者被邀请进入隧道目睹了安装在那里的爆炸物，然后他们被护送到距隧道450米远的看台上，从那里拍摄了引爆过程。
North Korea invited mostly TV journalists to ensure that its action would be broadcast worldwide.
朝鲜邀请的大多是电视记者，以确保爆炸行动能在全世界范围内播出。
Although some analysts feared the moves would be reversible, the reported demolition was the first concrete step North Korea has taken toward what Washington had been hoping would be a complete nuclear dismantlement under Mr. Kim.
尽管一些分析人士担心这一行动也许是可逆的，但这次报道的拆除是朝鲜朝着华盛顿所希望的、在金正恩领导下彻底销毁核设施的方向迈出的具体的第一步。
North Korea announced last month that it would end all nuclear and long-range ballistic missile tests, as well as close the Punggye-ri test site. It said it no longer needed to conduct such tests because the country already had nuclear weapons and wanted to focus on rebuilding its economy.
朝鲜上个月宣布，将停止所有的核武器和远程弹道导弹试验，关闭丰溪里的核试验基地。朝鲜表示，不再需要进行这类试验，因为该国已拥有核武器，并希望将工作重点放在重建经济上。
It is still not known whether the country will give up its nuclear arsenal. It is not even clear whether North Korea destroyed all of the tunnels at the test site on Thursday, or if the explosions would allow the site to be used again. No weapons experts were present to view the blasts and to assess the extent of the destruction.
目前还不清楚朝鲜是否会放弃其核武库。就连朝鲜是否在周四拆除了试验场的所有隧道，或爆炸的结果是否会允许该试验场被再次使用，目前也不清楚。没有武器专家在场观看爆炸，对损坏程度作出评估。
Mr. Kim announced the closing of the test site earlier this month, an announcement that Mr. Trump called “a very smart and gracious gesture!”
本月早些时候，金正恩宣布关闭该试验场，特朗普称那个宣布是“一种非常聪明和优雅的姿态！”
But North Korea abruptly changed its tone last week, warning that Mr. Kim would not meet Mr. Trump if Washington insisted on its quick and “unilateral nuclear abandonment” without offering incentives.
但朝鲜在上周突然改变口吻，朝鲜警告说，如果华盛顿在不提供激励措施的情况下，坚持要求朝鲜迅速且“单方面地放弃核武器”的话，金正恩不会与特朗普见面。
Despite doubts about North Korea’s intentions, analysts noted signs that the North has been preparing for the shutdown in Punggye-ri in recent weeks, taking down some buildings, possibly in an effort to remove secret information before the arrival of outsiders.
尽管外界对朝鲜的打算表示怀疑，但分析人士指出，有迹象表明，最近几周里，朝鲜一直为关闭丰溪里做准备，拆除了那里的一些建筑，可能是为了在外人到来之前消除秘密信息。
Some analysts have also played down the significance of North Korea’s decision to shut down the site. They said that after six tests, all conducted in deep tunnels, the site had most likely caved in and become too unstable for another test. Others cautioned that the North might be shuttering the site in a way that could allow it to be reopened quickly.
一些分析人士还认为，朝鲜关闭丰溪里试验场并不那么重要。他们说，经过六次全部是在深隧道里进行的核试验之后，那个试验场很可能已经坍塌，变得极为不稳定，不能再进行试验了。另一些人则警告说，朝鲜可能是以让其能迅速恢复使用的方式关闭了试验场的。
In 2008, North Korea invited international journalists to watch it blow up a cooling tower of its nuclear reactor under a deal with Washington. But it restarted the reactor a few years later, after negotiations over its nuclear program stalled.
2008年，按照一项与华盛顿达成的协议，朝鲜曾邀请国际记者观看了其一座核反应堆的冷却塔的炸毁。但几年后，在有关该国核项目的谈判陷入僵局后，朝鲜重启了那个核反应堆。
But when he met with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea last month, Mr. Kim rebuffed skeptics of the Punggye-ri shutdown, saying that at the time, the site still had two functioning tunnels where nuclear tests could be conducted.
但是，金正恩上个月在与韩国总统文在寅见面时，反驳了对关闭丰溪里持怀疑态度的人，他当时曾表示，该试验场仍有两个仍在正常工作的隧道，可以进行核试验。
“It’s true that shutting down the Punggye-ri test site does not prevent North Korea from ever testing again,” said David Wright, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. “If negotiations fail or situations change in the future, it could decide to tunnel at a different site and build the required infrastructure needed to test.”
“毫无疑问，关闭丰溪里试验场并不能阻止朝鲜再次进行核试验，”忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)的资深科学家戴维·赖特(David Wright)说。“如果谈判失败或未来形势发生变化的话，朝鲜可以决定在另一个地点修建隧道、以及进行试验所需的基础设施。”
But Mr. Wright called the development on Thursday “a meaningful and pretty dramatic action nonetheless.” It could take the North months or longer to reverse the disabling of the facilities at the site, he said.
但赖特称周四的进展是“仍不失为一个有意义且相当引人注目的行动”。他说，扭转核试验设施的瘫痪状况可能需要朝鲜几个月或更长的时间。
North Korea said it had invited outside journalists to the dismantling ceremony to ensure transparency. But it waited until just a day before the event to let South Korean journalists into the country.
朝鲜说，邀请外部记者出席拆除仪式是为了确保透明度。但朝鲜一直等到拆除发生的前一天才允许韩国记者入境。
In a statement carried by its official Korean Central News Agency, the North’s Nuclear Weapons Institute said it held a ceremony on Thursday for “completely dismantling” the test site to demonstrate “transparency” with its earlier decision not to conduct any more nuclear tests.
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)在一份声明中说，朝鲜核武器研究所周四为“彻底拆除”核试验基地举行了仪式，展示了该国早些时候作出的不再进行核试验决定的“透明度”。
“Dismantling the nuclear test ground was done in such a way as to make all the tunnels of the test ground collapse by explosion and completely close the tunnel entrances, and at the same time, explode some guard facilities and observation posts on the site,” it said.
“核试验场拆除的方式是通过爆炸让试验场所有的隧道坍塌，彻底关闭隧道入口，同时炸毁试验场的一些警卫设施和观察站，”声明说。
The institute said there was no leakage of radioactive materials during the explosions. It said that the entire site will be closed after further removal of aboveground structures and personnel, adding that North Korea was committed to building “a nuclear-free peaceful world.”
该研究所说，爆炸过程中没有放射性物质泄漏，并表示，在进一步拆除地面结构、把人员撤出来后，将关闭整个试验场。该研究所还说，朝鲜致力于建设“一个无核的和平世界”。