SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Thursday that it had freed the American college student Otto F. Warmbier on “humanitarian grounds” but did not reveal any details of his medical condition or the diplomatic negotiations that led to his release.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周四说，该国出于“人道主义考虑”释放了美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)，但没有透露关于他病情、或让他得以获释的外交谈判的任何细节。
After he was held for more than a year in North Korea, Mr. Warmbier, 22, was flown from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, to Ohio, his home state, in a coma on Tuesday. Mr. Warmbier has been in a coma since shortly after he was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor during a one-hour trial in March last year, according to his family members, who were briefed by American officials.
朝鲜曾将现年22岁的瓦姆比尔关押了一年多，本周二，他在昏迷中被送上飞机，从朝鲜首都平壤飞往他家所在的美国俄亥俄州。美国官员已向他的家人介绍了有关情况，据他的家人说，自从去年3月，瓦姆比尔在一小时的法庭审理中被判处15年劳动教养之后不久，他就一直处于昏迷状态。
Doctors were evaluating Mr. Warmbier at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center, where he was admitted shortly after the plane carrying him landed in Cincinnati.
载着瓦姆比尔的飞机在辛辛那提降落后不久，他被送往辛辛那提大学医学中心，那里的医生正在对他的状态进行评估。
A one-sentence dispatch on Thursday by the North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency was the country’s first official comment on Mr. Warmbier since his release.
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社周四发表的一句话声明是该国在瓦姆比尔获释后发表的首次正式评论。
Mr. Warmbier’s release came after a series of low-key communications between United States and North Korean officials in recent months, even as the North conducted missile tests and Washington hinted at the possibility of military action to stop the country’s advancing nuclear weapons program.
瓦姆比尔的获释发生在美国和朝鲜官员近几个月来的一系列低调沟通之后，尽管在这段时间里，朝鲜进行了多次导弹试验，华盛顿也暗示可能会采取军事行动来阻止朝鲜不断发展的核武器计划。
In Oslo last month, Joseph Y. Yun, the State Department’s point person on North Korea, met with Choe Son-hui of the North Korean Foreign Ministry, who handled relations with Washington, to push for the release of all four American citizens then being held in the North.
为促使朝鲜将其关押的四位美国公民都释放出来，美国国务院的朝鲜问题特别代表尹汝尚(Joseph Y. Yun)上个月在奥斯陆与朝鲜外交部官员崔善姫见了面。
Then last week, North Korean diplomats at the United Nations told Mr. Yun that Mr. Warmbier had been in a coma for more than a year. The North later agreed to let Mr. Yun fly to Pyongyang to medically evacuate Mr. Warmbier.
那之后，朝鲜驻联合国的外交官在上周告诉尹汝尚，瓦姆比尔处于昏迷状态已经一年多了。朝鲜后来同意让尹汝尚飞往平壤，安排将瓦姆比尔医疗撤离。
The North told American officials that Mr. Warmbier contracted botulism and slipped into a coma after taking a sleeping pill. Doctors in Cincinnati have yet to comment on North Korea’s claim.
朝鲜对美国官员说，瓦姆比尔感染了肉毒菌，在服用安眠药后陷入昏迷状态。辛辛那提的医生还未对朝鲜的说法发表评论。
The North’s terse announcement on Thursday served to highlight many other unanswered questions about Mr. Warmbier, such as why North Korea kept his medical condition from United States officials for so long and why it decided to release him.
朝鲜周四发表的简短声明让关于瓦姆比尔的许多尚无答案的问题显得更加突出，比如，为什么朝鲜这么长时间不把他的病情告诉美国官员，为什么朝鲜决定释放他。
President Trump has defined his approach on North Korea as “maximum pressure and engagement.” He has repeatedly called on China, the North’s only major trading partner, to curtail economic ties with its neighbor to help rein in its nuclear pursuits. But Mr. Trump has also called North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, a “pretty smart cookie” and said he would be “honored” to meet him under right circumstances.
特朗普总统把他对朝鲜采用的方法定义为“最大的压力和参与”。他一再呼吁朝鲜唯一的主要贸易伙伴中国，缩减与邻国的经济关系，以帮助遏制朝鲜的核计划。但特朗普也称朝鲜领导人金正恩是一个“相当聪敏的人”，并表示在适当情况下会很“荣幸”地与金正恩见面。
If the North intended Mr. Warmbier’s release as a diplomatic overture toward Washington, whether it leads to broader talks would depend on Mr. Warmbier’s condition, analysts said.
分析人士说，如果朝鲜释放瓦姆比尔意在对华盛顿作出外交姿态的话，这个姿态是否会带来更广泛的谈判将取决于瓦姆比尔的病情。
“Otto is not in great shape right now,” his father, Fred Warmbier, told Fox News on Wednesday. “Otto has been terrorized and brutalized for 18 months by a pariah regime in North Korea.”
“奥托现在的状态不太好，”他的父亲弗雷德·瓦姆比尔(Fred Warmbier)周三对福克斯新闻说。“奥托被朝鲜遭世界垂弃的政权恫吓和摧残了18个月。”
On Thursday, President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, who is scheduled to meet with Mr. Trump on June 29 and 30 in Washington to discuss a joint approach to the North, said that his government was willing to start unconditional talks with the North if it ceased further missile or nuclear tests.
周四，韩国总统文在寅说，如果朝鲜停止进一步的导弹与核试验，他的政府愿意与朝鲜开始无条件的谈判，文在寅已定于6月29日和30日在华盛顿与特朗普会晤。
In a speech marking the 17th anniversary of the 2000 summit meeting between the two Koreas, Mr. Moon urged the North to help promote peace on the divided Korean Peninsula by giving up its nuclear weapons program. He said South Korea would help North Korea rebuild its economy if it chose to denuclearize.
文在寅发表了一篇纪念2000年召开的韩朝首脑会议17周年的讲话，他在讲话中敦促朝鲜放弃核武器计划，说这样做将有助于促进朝鲜半岛的和平统一。他说，如果朝鲜选择无核化，韩国将帮助朝鲜重建经济。
All of Mr. Moon’s predecessors in recent decades had made similar proposals, but Mr. Kim has only redoubled his efforts to build missiles capable of delivering nuclear warheads to the United States and its allies. Since taking office last month, Mr. Moon has vowed to play a more assertive role in resolving the North’s nuclear crisis through talks, saying that he was willing to meet with Mr. Kim if the circumstances were right.
近几十年来，文在寅的所有前任都有过类似的建议，但金正恩反而在变本加厉地研发导弹，让其具有把核弹头运载到美国及其盟国的能力。文在寅自从上个月上任以来一再发誓，他要通过谈判在解决朝鲜核危机上发挥更大的作用，他说，如果情况适当，他愿意与金正恩见面。
There was no immediate response from the North to Mr. Moon’s speech on Thursday.
朝鲜没有在周四对文在寅的讲话做出即时反应。
Mr. Warmbier was convicted on “anti-state” charges for trying to steal a propaganda poster from his hotel after arriving in Pyongyang on a tourist visa in January last year.
瓦姆比尔去年1月持旅游签证到达平壤，他因试图偷走酒店里的一张政治宣传标语，被以“反国家”罪名起诉、并被判有罪。
With Mr. Warmbier’s release, three American citizens are currently known to be held in North Korea, all of them Korean-Americans.
瓦姆比尔获释后，朝鲜目前仍拘留着人们知道的三名美国公民，他们都是韩裔美国人。
They include Kim Dong-chul, who was sentenced to 10 years’ hard labor on charges of spying and other offenses last year. North Korea has also detained Kim Hak-song and Tony Kim, also known as Kim Sang-duk, both Korean-American Christians, on unspecified charges in recent weeks.
其中包括金东哲(Kim Dong-ch)，去年他因间谍罪及其他指控被判处10年劳动教养。朝鲜还在最近几周里拘留了金学松(Kim Hak-song)和托尼·金（Tony Kim，韩文名金盛德[Kim Sang-duk，音]），他们两人都是韩裔美籍基督徒，拘留他们的罪名不详。
In December, North Korea’s Supreme Court sentenced a South Korean-born Canadian pastor, the Rev. Lim Hyeon-soo, to hard labor for life on charges of carrying out “subversive plots” against North Korea.
去年12月，朝鲜最高法院判处一名在韩国出生的加拿大籍牧师林鉉洙(Hyeon Soo Lim)终生劳动教养，他的罪名是在朝鲜进行“颠覆阴谋”活动。
At least six South Korean citizens, most of them Christian missionaries, have also been detained in North Korea on spying and other charges in recent years, officials in the South said.
韩国官员说，近年来，至少有六名韩国公民也因间谍等罪名被朝鲜拘留，他们中大多数是基督教传教士。
The United States does not have diplomatic ties with North Korea. The Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang handles consular affairs for the Americans held there on Washington’s behalf. Reached by email, the Swedish ambassador, Torkel Stiernlöf, declined to comment on the conditions of the three Americans still in North Korean custody.
美国与朝鲜没有外交关系。瑞典驻平壤大使馆代表华盛顿处理被朝鲜拘留的美国人的领事事宜。记者通过电子邮件联系到瑞典驻朝鲜大使托克尔·斯特恩洛夫(Torkel Stiernlöf)，他拒绝对仍被朝鲜关押的三名美国人的状况发表评论。