SEOUL, South Korea — North and South Korea agreed on Wednesday to reopen a joint industrial complex in a sign that the two sides are inching toward a thaw after months of high tension earlier this year.
韩国首尔——朝鲜与韩国周三达成协议，重启双方合作的一个工业园。这标志着，经过今年早些时候持续数月的剑拔弩张，双方正缓慢地走向和解。
The breakthrough came during what the South billed as a final round of make-or-break negotiations on whether to restart or permanently shut down the Kaesong factory park, which had been the last remaining symbol of the two countries’ earlier economic cooperation.
开城工业园之前一直是朝韩两国经济合作仅存的最后象征。此次突破是在双方的最新一轮会谈中取得的，商讨的议题是重启该工业园或将其永久关闭。韩方曾称，成败在此一举。
The complex had been in operation for almost a decade, surviving through other periods of tension unlike other cross-border projects set up during a period of rapprochement and then halted one by one as relations soured in recent years. Kaesong’s future was thrown into uncertainty this year after North Korea pulled its workers out in April amid a crisis that began with the North’s third nuclear test and the resulting international sanctions. The South responded to the withdrawal of the workers by recalling its factory managers.
开城工业园的合作持续了近10年，不同于双方在和解期建立起来却又因近年来关系恶化而逐个关停的其他边境项目，它历经了多段紧张期而存活下来。然而今年，开城突然变得前途未卜。朝鲜的第三次核试验招致国际制裁，酿成一场危机，朝方于4月份撤出了开城的本国工人。韩国对此的回应是召回本国的工厂管理人员。
Relations have been less strained in recent months, which analysts attribute partly to pressure on the North from China, the country’s main benefactor, to stop provoking South Korea and the West. The United States had warned China that a failure to rein in the North would lead to a further buildup of American military in the region, anathema to the Chinese. The North may have had other reasons for re-engaging with the South, including that Pyongyang has long relied on the factory complex for much-needed hard currency and for tens of thousands of jobs. South Korea also recently promised $7.3 million worth of humanitarian aid for its impoverished neighbor, a conciliatory gesture that coincided with a call by the South for “one last round” of talks on restarting Kaesong.
不过，在最近几个月里，双方关系有所缓和。分析人士认为，这一定程度上是因为中国向朝鲜施压，要求其停止挑衅韩国和西方。中国是朝鲜的主要资助国，之前受到美国的警告，假如不能控制住朝鲜的话，将导致美国在该地区加强军事存在，而中国对此深恶痛绝。也可能是其他一些原因让朝鲜重新与韩国接触，比如，平壤长期依赖开城工业园提供其亟需的硬通货及数万个就业机会。韩国最近还承诺，向其贫穷的邻国提供价值730万美元（约合4500万元人民币）的人道主义援助，与此同时，韩方呼吁就重启开城工业园进行双方的“最后一轮”会谈。
Since last month, North and South Korea had held six earlier rounds of talks but had been unable to agree on the terms under which they could resume operations at the complex. They could find no compromise on the South Korean demand that the North take responsibility for monetary losses caused by the suspension of production and take steps to ensure that it would not shut the complex again for military or political reasons.
上月开始，朝韩双方已进行了之前六轮的会谈，但未能就重启工业园的条款达成一致。韩国要求，朝方应承担停工带来的经济损失，并要采取措施保证朝方不再出于军事或政治原因将其关闭，但双方未能就此达成妥协。
The breakthrough came Wednesday, when North Korea accepted an agreement under which the two Koreas “guarantee that the normal operation of the Kaesong industrial complex will not be affected by political situations under any circumstance.” The two sides also agreed to set up a joint panel to discuss compensating the South Korean companies for damages.
本周三，会谈终于有所突破，朝鲜接受了一项协议，其中规定，朝韩双方“保证开城工业园的正常运营在任何情况下不受政治局势的影响”。双方还同意，设立一个联合工作组，讨论赔偿韩国企业损失的问题。
In another significant gain for the South, North Korea agreed to invite foreign investors into Kaesong and honor “international business standards” there, including allowing use of mobile phones and the Internet by South Korean factory managers. South Korea has insisted on bringing in foreign investors, saying that would make it more difficult for the North to use the complex as a political bargaining chip against the South.
韩国还取得了另一项重大进展，朝鲜同意邀请外国投资者进入开城，并在那里遵守“国际商业标准”，其中包括允许韩国企业管理人员使用手机和互联网。韩国坚持要引进外资，称这样将使朝鲜更难以把开城作为对付韩国的政治筹码。
At stake in the talks was more than the future of the Kaesong complex, where 123 South Korean companies employing 53,000 North Korean produced $470 million worth of textiles, electronic parts and other labor-intensive goods last year.
开城工业园拥有123家韩国企业，雇有5.3万名朝鲜员工，去年生产了价值4.7亿美元的纺织品和电子零部件等劳动密集型商品。不过，朝韩会谈关系到的远不止这一工业园区的未来。
Analysts say that an agreement to reopen the complex will be an important test for inter-Korean relations under the young North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and the new South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, after a decidedly rocky start.
分析人士指出，重启开城工业园的协议将是对朝韩关系的重大考验。朝鲜领导人是年轻的金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，而韩国总统是新上任的朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)，在他们治下，两国关系无疑经历了一个坎坷的开端。
“Kaesong is the one thing left,” John Delury, a North Korea expert at Yonsei University in Seoul, said of the significance of the factory complex in inter-Korean relations. Its failure to reopen would have had “severe implications” for North-South ties, he said.
谈到开城对朝韩关系的重要性时，首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的朝鲜问题专家鲁乐汉(John Delury)称，“开城是仅存的果实。”他还表示，如果不能重启，将对双边关系造成“严重影响”。
The agreement Wednesday did not specify when the complex would resume operations.
周三的协议没有明确工业园重启的具体时间。
In a statement released by her office, Ms. Park said, “I hope that the agreement today will be an occasion for South-North relations to make a fresh start.”
韩国总统府公布了一份声明，朴槿惠在文中称，“我希望，今天的协议将成为韩朝关系重新开始的契机。”
Pak Chol-su, the top North Korean negotiator, called the breakthrough “great news for our nation.”
朝方的首席谈判代表朴哲洙(Pak Chol-su)则称，这一突破“对我们国家而言是个很好的消息”。