SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea released a propaganda video on Saturday that depicts a nuclear strike on Washington, along with a warning to “American imperialists” not to provoke the North.
韩国首尔——朝鲜在周六公布了一段宣传视频，展示了对华盛顿发起核攻击的场景，并警告“美帝国主义者”不要挑衅朝鲜。
The four-minute video clip, titled “Last Chance,” uses computer animation to show what looks like an intercontinental ballistic missile flying through the earth’s atmosphere before slamming into Washington, near what appears to be the Lincoln Memorial. A nuclear explosion follows.
这段长达四分钟的视频题为《最后的机会》(Last Chance)，其中利用电脑动画展示了洲际弹道导弹划破大气层，似乎落在了林肯纪念堂(Lincoln Memorial)附近。然后是一场核爆。
“If the American imperialists provoke us a bit, we will not hesitate to slap them with a pre-emptive nuclear strike,” read the Korean subtitles in the video, which was uploaded to the YouTube channel of D.P.R.K. Today, a North Korean website. “The United States must choose! It’s up to you whether the nation called the United States exists on this planet or not.”
“美帝国主义者如敢进犯一寸，我们将毫不犹豫地先发制人，发起核攻击，”视频中的朝鲜语字幕写着。“美国必须选择。美国能否继续留在地球上，取决于你们。”今日朝鲜(D.P.R.K. Today)网站在其You Tube频道中公布了该视频。
Such remarks are in line with recent threats and assertions from North Korea about its nuclear and missile capabilities.
此类言辞符合朝鲜最近有关其核能力及导弹能力的威胁及姿态。
The North recently threatened a nuclear strike against Washington in retaliation for new United Nations sanctions, which were imposed this month to punish North Korea for its most recent tests of a nuclear device and a long-range rocket.
朝鲜最近威胁要对华盛顿发起核攻击，以此作为对联合国新制裁举措的报复，联合国本月以朝鲜最近测试核装置和远程火箭的举动为由对其施加新制裁。
The new video mostly chronicles what it calls “humiliating defeats” suffered by the United States at North Korea’s hands over the years, including the North’s capture in 1968 of an American ship, the Pueblo, and the shooting down of an American helicopter in 1994.
朝鲜称多年来美国“威风扫地，败给”朝鲜，新视频主要记录了相关事件，比如朝鲜1968年缴获美国普韦布洛号(Pueblo)舰船，以及1994年击落美国直升机的事件。
It goes on to depict a barrage of artillery, rockets and missiles — including a submarine-launched ballistic missile, which North Korea recently claimed to have successfully tested — and it ends with the American flag in flames.
视频接着展示了一系列火炮、火箭和导弹——包括朝鲜最近宣称测试成功的潜射弹道导弹，最后是美国国旗在烈焰中燃烧的画面。
Hatred for America has long been a prominent theme in North Korean propaganda, and as the North’s nuclear and missile programs have advanced in recent years, a sense of empowerment through those weapons has become another key element of the messaging.
长久以来，对美国的仇恨一直是朝鲜宣传中的重要主题。随着朝鲜核武器和导弹项目近年来不断发展，这些武器带来的赋权感也成为宣传信息中的关键要素。