BEIJING — China’s leader, Xi Jinping, and President Trump spoke by phone on Wednesday about the escalating tensions with North Korea as a prominent Chinese state-run newspaper warned the North that it faced a cutoff of vital oil supplies if it dared test a nuclear weapon.
北京——中国领导人习近平与美国总统特朗普周三就朝鲜紧张局势升级问题通了电话，同时，中国一家主要官方报纸警告说，如果朝鲜敢再次测试核武器的话，该国将面临其重要的石油供应被切断的可能。
The phone call, reported by China’s state broadcaster, CCTV, came hours after Mr. Trump cautioned Beijing in a Twitter message and a television interview that it needed to help Washington rein in North Korea, a Chinese ally. During the call, which was initiated by Mr. Trump, Mr. Xi said that the matter should be solved through peaceful means, the state news agency Xinhua reported.
中国官方电视台网中央电视台报道了两位领导人的通话，通话发生的几小时前，特朗普曾发推文、并在一次电视采访中告诫北京，中国需要帮助华盛顿控制中国的盟友朝鲜。据官方通讯社新华社报道，这次通话是特朗普发起的，习近平在电话中表示，应该以和平方式解决朝鲜问题。
Tensions escalated further on Wednesday as reports said the Japanese Navy would join the United States Navy strike group led by the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson in its mission off the Korean coast. Those joint exercises would take place as the American armada passed through waters close to Japan, Reuters said.
紧张气氛周三进一步升级，有报道称，日本海军将加入到由卡尔文森号航空母舰带领的美国海军打击编队中来，一起在朝鲜半岛附近水域执行任务。路透社说，联合演习将在美国舰队从日本海域经过时进行。
The Carl Vinson and several other warships are heading toward the Korean Peninsula in a show of force intended to deter the North from testing a sixth nuclear weapon or launching missiles.
卡尔文森号及其他几艘军舰正在驶向朝鲜半岛，以展示力量，目的是阻止朝鲜进行第六次核武器试验或发射导弹。
North Korea on Saturday is celebrating the 105th anniversary of the birth of Kim Il-sung, the founder of the nation. Its current leader, Kim Jong-un, his grandson, is expected to use the occasion to either stage a nuclear weapons test or conduct a missile test, in direct defiance of the United States and its main patron, China.
朝鲜将于本周六庆祝开国领袖金日成诞辰105周年。预计金日成的孙子、现任领导人金正恩将利用这个机会上演一次核武器试验，或进行导弹测试，以对美国和朝鲜的主要资助者中国表示直接对抗。
American television networks and some newspapers have been invited to report on a military show in the capital, Pyongyang, this weekend.
朝鲜已邀请美国的电视台网和一些报纸对周末将在首都平壤举行的军事表演进行报道。
In an unusually strong editorial, Global Times, a newspaper that sometimes reflects the thinking of China’s leadership, said Beijing would support stiffer United Nations sanctions, including “strictly limiting” oil exports to North Korea should it conduct a nuclear test.
《环球时报》在一篇措辞异常强硬的社评中说，如果朝鲜再次进行核试验，北京会支持更严格的联合国制裁措施，包括“空前严厉”的对朝鲜出口石油的限制。《环球时报》有时反映中国领导层的想法。
The editorial, indicating nervousness about what the North might do on Saturday, said that the peninsula was the closest to “military clashes” since 2006.
社评对朝鲜周六可能做出的动作表示担忧，社评说，自2006年以来，朝鲜半岛目前处于离爆发“军事冲突”最近的时刻。
“China, too, can no longer stand the continuous escalation of the North Korean nuclear issue at its doorstep,” the editorial said. “Instead of accepting a situation that continues to worsen, putting an end to this is more in line with the wish of the Chinese public.”
社评说：“中国也很难忍受朝核问题不停在家门口折腾了，让这个问题了结，比接受它不停发酵下去，更符合中国社会的集体愿望。”
The newspaper called on Pyongyang to avoid a “head-on collision” with Mr. Trump by suspending its provocative activities. If the North Korean regime did not restrain itself and made “a huge mistake, it may be difficult to have another chance to correct its strategy.”
该报呼吁平壤暂停其挑衅活动，不与特朗普“迎头相撞”。如果朝鲜政权不自我约束的话，会“铸成大错，或许很难有开展战略修正的机会。”
North Korea is almost entirely dependent on China for its oil, and a loss of its supplies would cripple the noticeable economic growth in the country over the last few years.
朝鲜的石油几乎完全依赖中国，切断石油供应会削弱该国近几年明显的经济增长。
Global Times also reminded North Korea that Mr. Trump had ordered missile strikes against Syria, an attack that occurred during Mr. Xi’s visit to Florida less than a week ago. Mr. Trump has promised in interviews that he is willing to take unilateral action against North Korea if necessary, although he has not specified what he would do.
《环球时报》还提醒朝鲜，特朗普已下令对叙利亚进行导弹打击，袭击就发生在习近平不到一周前访问佛罗里达州期间。特朗普已多次在采访中扬言，如果有必要，他愿意对朝鲜采取单方面行动，虽然他没有具体说明会采取什么行动。
“Not only is Washington brimming with confidence and arrogance following the missile attacks on Syria, but Trump is also willing to be regarded as a man who honors his promises,” Global Times wrote.
“华盛顿正处在对叙利亚刚刚发动军事打击后对自己‘威严’和‘霸气’的自我欣赏中，”《环球时报》写道。而“特朗普是个愿意听到舆论称赞自己‘能够兑现诺言’的人。”
The two leaders discussed North Korea during their meeting at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, but little progress appears to have been made.
中美两国领导人在特朗普位于佛罗里达州的马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)庄园会晤期间讨论了朝鲜问题，但似乎没有什么进展。
The CCTV account of the call on Wednesday did not mention new actions China might take against North Korea. But the two leaders most likely had a substantive conversation about addressing the situation, a Chinese expert on North Korea said.
央视在周三对中美两国领导人通电话的报道中，没有提中国可能对朝鲜采取新行动。但中美两国领导人很可能就当前问题进行了实质性的交谈，中国的一位朝鲜问题专家说。
“We don’t know the real content of the conversation,” said Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor of international relations at Renmin University. “China used to be in a passive mode. China’s policies towards North Korea are becoming increasingly proactive.”
“我们不了解通话的实际内容，”人民大学国际关系学院副教授成晓河说。“中国以前处于被动状态。中国对朝鲜的政策正在变得越来越主动。”