SEOUL, South Korea — The Supreme Court in North Korea on Sunday sentenced one of the three Americans known to be held in the country to six years of hard labor for committing “hostile acts” against the North.
韩国首尔——周日，朝鲜最高法院判处一名美国人强制劳动六年，罪名是从事反朝“敌对活动”。此人是外界所知被朝鲜扣押的三名美国人之一。
North Korea said the American, Matthew Todd Miller of Bakersfield, Calif., committed the crime while entering the country on a tourist visa in April, according to the official Korean Central News Agency.
据官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，朝鲜方面称，来自加利福尼亚州贝克斯菲尔德的马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)，是今年4月凭借旅行签证进入朝鲜时从事上述犯罪活动的。
The agency also carried photographs that showed Mr. Miller, who North Korean court records say is 25, in the defendant’s seat in the courtroom with his eyes downcast, and flanked by uniformed security officials. The news agency gave no further details of the trial.
朝中社公布的一些照片显示，米勒坐在法庭被告席上，目光低垂，两旁是穿制服的安全人员。朝鲜的法庭记录称米勒现年25岁。朝中社没有披露这次庭审的更多细节。
But The Associated Press and The Choson Sinbo, a pro-North Korean newspaper in Japan, both of which were allowed to attend the trial, said that Mr. Miller was convicted on spy charges under Article 64 of the country’s criminal code.
但出席了庭审的美联社(The Associated Press)和日本亲朝鲜报刊《朝鲜新报》(Choson Sinbo)称，米勒受到的是间谍罪指控，并依照朝鲜刑法第64条被定罪。
Mr. Miller was accused of entering North Korea with the “ambition” to deliberately violate North Korean law so he could experience life in a North Korean prison and later become a firsthand witness about the human rights conditions in the North, The A.P. and The Choson Sinbo reported.
据美联社和《朝鲜新报》报道，米勒被指控在进入朝鲜时“妄图”故意违反朝鲜法律，以体验朝鲜监狱生活，亲眼见证朝鲜的人权状况。
International attention to the North’s human rights conditions has grown since a United Nations commission of inquiry issued a report in February documenting what it called “widespread, systematic and gross” violations, including enslavement, torture, rape and executions in the North’s prison camps. The United Nations Human Rights Council adopted a resolution in March calling on the Security Council to take action.
今年2月，联合国的调查委员会发布了一份报告，记录了朝鲜监狱营中存在的“广泛、系统、恶劣”的侵犯人权做法，包括奴役、酷刑、强奸和处决。此后，朝鲜的人权状况吸引了越来越多的关注。联合国人权理事会今年3月通过了一份决议，呼吁安理会采取行动。
The Choson Sinbo, quoting the North Korean court in its ruling on Mr. Miller, wrote, "His was an anti-state crime perpetrated under the protection and encouragement of the current U.S. government, which is intent on isolating and stifling our republic, and must be sternly punished.”
《朝鲜新报》的文章称，朝鲜法院在宣布对米勒的裁决时说，“他在当今美国政府的保护和鼓励之下犯了反朝鲜罪，必须受到严厉的惩罚。现任美国政府的意图就是鼓励和扼杀我们的国家。”
North Korea had earlier accused Mr. Miller of unruly behavior, saying that he had torn up his visa at the Pyongyang airport and demanded asylum. In interviews with The Associated Press and CNN, which were conducted while North Korean officials were present, Mr. Miller said he apologized for his crime but did not discuss whether he had asked for asylum.
朝鲜此前曾指控米勒存在不法行为，称他在平壤机场撕毁签证，要求避难。在接受美联社和CNN的采访时，米勒称，他为自己的罪行道歉。但他并未谈及是否曾要求在朝鲜避难。采访是在朝鲜官员在场的情况下进行的。
One of the two other Americans known to be held in North Korea, Kenneth Bae, a missionary, has been sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on charges of trying to build an underground proselytizing network in a plot to overthrow the North Korean government.
目前已知还有两名美国人被朝鲜扣押，其中一人是被判处15年劳役的传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)，罪名是建立秘密的传教网络，密谋推翻朝鲜政府。
The other, Jeffrey Fowle, 56, is expected to go on trial soon, also on charges of committing hostile acts. Mr. Fowle, an Ohio municipal worker, entered North Korea in April on a tourist visa. He had said in an earlier interview with CNN that he was taken into custody because he had tried to leave the country after having left behind a Bible. North Korea treats proselytizing by outsiders as an attempt to undermine its government.
另一人是56岁的杰弗里·福尔(Jeffrey Fowle)，他很快就会接受审判，罪名也是存在“敌对行为”。福尔是俄亥俄州的市政工作者，今年4月持旅游签证进入朝鲜。他之前接受CNN采访时表示，他在离开朝鲜前留下了一本《圣经》(Bible)，因此被拘押。朝鲜将外部人员的传教行为视作企图破坏朝鲜政府的罪行。
In their separate interviews with CNN and The Associated Press this month, the three Americans beseeched Washington to send a high-ranking envoy to negotiate their freedom.
在本月分别接受CNN及美联社的采访时，这三名美国人恳求华盛顿方面派一名高层特使，与朝鲜就释放他们的事宜展开谈判。
The United States has no diplomatic ties with North Korea and relies on the Swedish Embassy to represent the interests of Americans held in the reclusive country. Washington has repeatedly offered to send its envoy for North Korean human rights issues, Robert R. King, to Pyongyang, the North’s capital, to gain the release of the three Americans, but North Korea did not agree to see him, apparently seeking bigger concessions from Washington, like a visit by a more prominent American.
美国与朝鲜没有外交关系，被关押在这个封闭国家的美国人的利益，是靠瑞典大使馆代理的。美国曾多次主动提出派遣其朝鲜人权事务特使罗伯特·R·金(Robert R. King)前往朝鲜首都平壤，促使朝鲜释放这些美国人，但朝鲜没有同意与他会面，明显是寻求华盛顿做出更大让步，比如促使美国派一名比较知名的美国人访问朝鲜。
The Choson Sinbo, quoting North Korean court records, reported on Sunday that Mr. Miller was born in California on Aug. 26, 1989, and visited South Korea before entering North Korea through China on April 10.
周日，《朝鲜新报》援引朝鲜法庭的记录称，米勒于1989年8月26日出生在加利福尼亚州，4月10日通过中国进入朝鲜，此前去过韩国。
The newspaper said he had developed a deep hostility against North Korea while reading anti-North Korean publications.
该报称，米勒对朝鲜怀有深深的敌意，并看一些反朝鲜的出版物。