A veteran North Korean diplomat warned on Monday that if any effort was made to charge the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, with crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court, the North would take unspecified “countermeasures.”
朝鲜一名资深外交官周一警告，假如在国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)出现控告朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)犯有反人类罪的任何尝试，朝鲜将采取“应对措施”，但他并未道明具体是何措施。
The diplomat, Jang Il Hun, also denied that the country had political prisoners.
这位名为张日勋(Jang Il Hun)的外交官同时否认朝鲜存在政治犯。
The statements by Mr. Jang came in a rare and sometimes heated hourlong discussion of the country’s reaction to a United Nations report in February — which included satellite photographs of a network of prison camps, and interviews with dissidents who had escaped from them — as well as North Korea’s nuclear policies. While he hewed to Pyongyang’s official talking points about the report, he did not rule out allowing outside inspectors to visit the sites in the future.
张日勋作出上述声明的场合是一场时而激烈的讨论，议题则为朝鲜对联合国2月发布的一份报告做出的回应，以及该国的核政策。讨论持续了一个小时。联合国那份报告的内容包括劳改营系统的卫星图片，以及对从那里逃出来的异见人士的采访。张日勋遵循了平壤针对该报告的官方谈话要点，但并未排除将来允许外部监察人员进行实地考察的可能性。
“In my country we don’t even know the term ‘political prisoners,’ ” Mr. Jang, a 32-year veteran of the North Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in a session with about 40 members of the Council on Foreign Relations. He insisted that the camps in the satellite photographs were “reformatories” and denied that anyone had been forced into labor. “It is a normal prison,” he added.
“在我们国家，我们甚至都不知道有‘政治犯’这个术语，”32岁的张日勋在与对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)的大约40名成员进行会谈时说。经验丰富的他供职于朝鲜外务省。他坚称卫星图片中的营地是“教养所”，并否认有任何人被强制劳动。“是普通监狱，”他接着说。
That was not the conclusion of the Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, which was created by the United Nations Human Rights Council. In its report, the commission detailed conditions in the camps and concluded in its February report that “these crimes against humanity entail extermination, murder, enslavement, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortions and other sexual violence, persecution on political, religious, racial and gender grounds, the forcible transfer of populations, the enforced disappearance of persons and the inhumane act of knowingly causing prolonged starvation.”
不过，这并不是联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)成立的朝鲜民主主义人民共和国人权状况调查委员会(Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)的结论。该委员会在其报告中详细描述了那些营地的状况，并在2月的报告中得出结论，“这些危害人类罪包括灭绝、谋杀、奴役、酷刑、监禁、强奸、强迫堕胎和其他性暴力，政治、宗教、种族和性别迫害，强制转移人口，强迫人员失踪和故意造成长时间饥饿的不人道行为。”
The report concluded: “Crimes against humanity are ongoing in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea because the policies, institutions and patterns of impunity that lie at their heart remain in place.”
报告认定：“在朝鲜民主主义人民共和国危害人类罪还在进行，因为处于核心位置的政策、机构和有罪不罚做法仍然存在。”
The phrasing has led to concerns within the North Korean government that a case was being prepared for the International Criminal Court.
这种措辞在朝鲜政府内部引发了忧虑，让他们担心有人正准备在国际刑事法院提起诉讼。
“They are clearly stung by the thought that the I.C.C. could be targeting the leadership,” said Gary Bass, a Princeton University professor who has written extensively on human rights and national security, and participated in the dialogue with Mr. Jang. Mr. Bass noted that Mr. Jang did not “slam the door completely” on visits to the prisons, but said it was “hard to imagine” that the North would allow them.
“想到国际法院可能正把目标对准领导层，他们显然受了刺激，”普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)教授加里·J·贝斯(Gary J. Bass)说。他撰写了许多关于人权和国家安全的文章，也参与了与张日勋的对话。贝斯指出，张日勋并没有“完全关上”探访朝鲜监狱的“大门”，但又表示“很难想象”朝鲜会允许外界这么做。
Mr. Jang made no reference to the health of Mr. Kim, who reappeared last week after a five-week absence from any public events, a disappearance that led to talk of a possible coup.
张日勋未曾提到金正恩的健康状况。上周，在从公众视野中消失五个星期后，金正恩重新露面。他的消失让外界开始揣测朝鲜是否发生了政变。
Asked why North Korea conducted a nuclear test just months into President Obama’s presidency, in 2009, rather than seek to engage in talks with the new administration, Mr. Jang said the North was “compelled” to show its capabilities, including “the miniaturization of nuclear warheads,” because of the “hostile policies” of the new administration.
当被问到朝鲜为何要在2009年，即奥巴马总统上台仅几个月后进行核试验，而不是寻求与这届新政府举行谈话的时候，张日勋表示，因为新政府采取“敌对政策”，所以朝鲜“被迫”要展示自己的实力，其中包括“核弹头的微型化”。
The test, however, did not prove, at least to anyone other than the country’s own scientists, that the North had managed the difficult science of compressing a nuclear weapon into a size that could fit atop one of the country’s missiles. But it did show that the North was capable of detonating a crude nuclear explosion.
然而，那次核试验并未证明——至少没有向除朝鲜本国科学家以外的任何人证明——朝鲜已经掌握了将核武器压缩至能安装到该国导弹上那种尺寸的复杂技术。但它的确表明，朝鲜具备了引爆粗制核装置的能力。
Mr. Jang was also asked what led to the execution late last year of Mr. Kim’s uncle Jang Song-thaek after a brief trial. The fall of Mr. Jang, who had been thought to be one of the most powerful figures in the country, appeared to have its origins in a clash over who would profit from North Korea’s most lucrative exports: coal, clams and crabs.
张日勋还被问到，去年年末，金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song Thaek)为何会在简短的审讯之后被处决。张成泽曾被视作朝鲜最有权势的人物之一，而他的倒台似乎与一场经济冲突有关。这场冲突争夺的是谁将能从朝鲜最赚钱的出口产品——煤炭、蛤蚌和螃蟹——中获利。