WASHINGTON — North Korea declared Tuesday night that it has detonated its first hydrogen bomb, a weapon far more powerful than it has set off previously, a claim that, if true, would dramatically escalate the nuclear challenge from one of the world’s most isolated and dangerous states.
华盛顿——周二晚间，朝鲜宣布该国引爆了第一颗氢弹，这种武器比过去引爆过的武器都更强大。如果这个消息属实，将会极大地加剧朝鲜在核武器方面对外界构成的挑战。该国目前是世界上最孤立也最危险的国家之一。
In a brief announcement, about an hour after seismic detectors around the world picked up a 5.1 magnitude seismic event along the country’s northeast cost, officials said that the test was a “complete success.” But it is difficult to tell whether that boast is true, and it may be weeks or longer before detectors sent aloft by the United States and other powers can determine what kind of test was conducted.
世界各地的地震监测装置发现该国东北部沿海地区发生了5.1级的地震活动。之后大约一小时，官员就发布了一则简短的声明称，试验“圆满成功”。但很难断定这则自夸消息是否属实，或许还要几周甚至更长时间，美国及其他大国向空中发射的监测器才能确定进行的是哪种试验。
The apparent North Korean test took place at or near the Punggye-ri nuclear test site, where the three previous tests have been conducted over the past nine years. But if the North Korean claim is true, this one was of a of a different nature.
朝鲜这起疑似试爆事件，发生在丰溪里(Punggye-ri)核试验场或其附近。过去九年里发生的三次核试验，就是在这里开展的。然而如果朝鲜的公告属实，此次试验的性质完全不同以往。
In recent weeks, the North’s aggressive young leader, Kim Jong-un, has boasted that the country has finally developed the technology to build a thermonuclear weapon, one far more powerful than the low-yield devices tested first in 2006, then in different configurations months after President Obama took office in 2009 and again in 2013.
最近几周，朝鲜强势的年轻领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)曾夸耀，该国终于研发出了制造热核武器的技术，这种武器比2006年首次试爆、并在2009年和2013年以不同的配置再次试爆的低当量武器强大得多。
For the Obama administration, which only six months ago defused the Iranian nuclear threat with an agreement to limit its capabilities for at least a decade, the announcement rekindles the another major nuclear challenge — one the administration has never found a way to manage. With the Monday night test – Tuesday in North Korea – three of the North’s four tests will have occurred during the Mr. Obama’s term in office. Combined with the North’s gradually increasing missile technology, it poses a larger and larger threat to the region — though it is still not clear the North knows how to mount a nuclear weapon on one of its missiles.
奥巴马政府六个月前才刚刚解决了伊朗的核威胁，签订的协议会在未来至少十年时间里限制其核能力。对于奥巴马政府来说，朝鲜的公告重新点燃了另一个重大的核挑战，而且美国政府从来没有找到过遏制它的方法。算上美国时间周一晚间，朝鲜时间周二发生的此次试爆，朝鲜的四次核弹试爆中，有三次是在奥巴马任内发生的。加上朝鲜逐渐改进的导弹技术，它对周边地区构成了越来越大的威胁。不过尚不清楚朝鲜是否知道该怎样将核弹安装在导弹之上。
The United States did not develop its first thermonuclear weapons—commonly known as hydrogen bombs — until 1952, seven years after the first and only use of nuclear weapons in wartime, against Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Russia, China and other powers followed suit.
美国直到1952年才研发首颗热核武器，人们通常称之为氢弹。那是日本广岛和长崎遭受核武器轰炸的七年之后。广岛和长崎的轰炸是战争中首次也是仅有一次使用核武器。苏联、中国及其他大国也在美国之后研发了热核武器。
Such weapons essentially use two separate nuclear explosions: A primary fission reaction, which compresses a second nuclear mass and ignites a fusion reaction. That two-stage approach tremendously increases the power of the bomb.
这种武器实质上利用了两次单独的核爆炸：先是发生主要的核裂变反应，它能压缩第二块核物质，进而诱发核聚变反应。两个阶段的爆炸方法极大地提升了武器的威力。
The idea was originally American; the famed Edward Teller was one of the designers of the first thermonuclear weapon.
这个构想最初是美国先发明的，著名的爱德华·泰勒(Edward Teller)就是最早的热核武器的设计者之一。