SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea’s Supreme Court sentenced a Canadian pastor to hard labor for life on Wednesday, the latest punishment the isolated country has inflicted on outside missionaries, who have been vilified as spies or agents of subversive ideas.
韩国首尔——朝鲜最高法院周三判处一名加拿大籍牧师终身劳教。这是这个与世隔绝的国家最近一次对外来传教士做出惩罚。这些传教士被诋毁为间谍或有颠覆企图的特工。
The Rev. Lim Hyeon-soo, a South Korea-born pastor of the Light Korean Presbyterian Church in Toronto, was convicted of carrying out “subversive plots” and committing “activities against” North Korea, like harming the dignity of the supreme leadership of Kim Jong-un, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said.
这位名叫林铉洙(Hyeon Soo Lim)的牧师在韩国出生，任职于多伦多韩光长老教会(Light Korean Presbyterian Church)。朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)称，他被判犯有实施“颠覆阴谋”和从事“反朝活动”的罪行，如损害金正恩(Kim Jong-un)最高领导的尊严。
The agency said that Mr. Lim, 60, had confessed to “all heinous crimes” he had committed “pursuant to the state-sponsored political terrorism and anti-D.P.R.K. hostile policy of the U.S. and South Korean authorities.” D.P.R.K. stands for the North’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
朝中社称，60岁的林铉洙对自己“根据国家资助的政治恐怖主义，以及美国和韩国政府的反DPRK敌对政策”所犯下的“所有十恶不赦的罪行”供认不讳。DPRK是朝鲜的正式名称“朝鲜民主主义人民共和国”的缩写。
North Korean prosecutors had called for the death penalty for Mr. Lim, the news agency said, adding that he had also been accused of helping “lure and abduct” North Korean citizens, calling them defectors. But his government-appointed lawyer asked the court to let him live “so he can see the true face” of North Korea, it said.
朝中社称朝鲜检方要求判处林铉洙死刑，并接着表示林铉洙还被控参与“引诱和绑架”朝鲜公民。该通讯社称这些人为叛逃者。但朝中社表示，政府为林铉洙指定的律师请求法庭让林铉洙免于一死，“这样他就能看到”朝鲜的“真实情况”。
Foreign governments and international rights groups have criticized the trials of recent foreign detainees in North Korea because their family members and outside lawyers had not been allowed to visit them or defend them in court.
外国政府和国际人权组织纷纷指责朝鲜对最近羁押的外国人士进行的审判，因为他们的家人和外部律师均未获准前去探视或出庭辩护。
Mr. Lim, who had visited North Korea more than 100 times on what his church called humanitarian missions, lost contact with his congregation after entering the country in late January. In July, a tearful Mr. Lim appeared in a government-arranged news conference in Pyongyang and confessed to plotting to overthrow the North Korean leadership by undermining the “worship” of Kim Jong-un.
1月末，因其所在教会所说的人道主义任务而去过朝鲜100多次的林铉洙在进入该国后与会众失去了联系。7月，泪眼婆娑的林铉洙出现在了平壤一场由政府安排的新闻发布会上，供认自己密谋通过削弱对金正恩的“崇拜”，来推翻朝鲜领导人。
Other foreigners detained in the North have appeared at similar news conferences or interviews, but the truthfulness of their “confessions” to crimes has been questioned by analysts, given that the foreigners were refused independent legal assistance.
被朝鲜羁押的其他外国人也出现在了类似的新闻发布会或采访中，但考虑到朝鲜不允许外国人接受独立的法律援助，他们“坦白”罪行的真实性受到了分析人士的质疑。
François Lasalle, a spokesman for Canada’s Department of Global Affairs, said on Wednesday, “Canada is dismayed at the unduly harsh sentence given to Mr. Lim by a North Korean court, particularly given his age and fragile health.”
加拿大外交部发言人弗朗索瓦·拉萨尔(François Lasalle)周三表示，“加拿大对朝鲜法院对林铉洙做出的过于严厉的判决感到震惊，特别是考虑到的他年事已高且身体虚弱。”
He added: “Mr. Lim has been in detention since February and despite repeated requests, Canadian officials have not been able to meet with him to verify his health and well-being. The trial was our first opportunity to see him. This is a serious violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the right of states to have consular access to their citizens.”
他接着表示：“自2月以来林铉洙一直被羁押，尽管再三请求，加方官员一直未能与其见面，核实其健康状况。审判时是我们首次有机会见到他。这严重违反了《维也纳外交关系公约》(Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations)和各国探视本国公民的领事探视权。”
Last month, Mr. Lim’s family issued a statement appealing to North Korea to release him “in a true show of mercy and compassion.”
上月，林铉洙的家人发表声明，恳求朝鲜释放林铉洙，“真正展现宽容和慈悲”。
Mr. Lim said at his news conference in July that the bags of food he had donated across North Korea had carried the sign of the cross and phrases from the Bible. His church has supported a nursing home, a nursery and an orphanage in North Korea since it began a mission there in 1996, when the country was in the grip of a famine that killed many thousands.
林铉洙在7月的新闻发布会上表示，他捐赠给朝鲜全国各地的食物的袋子上印有十字架符号和出自《圣经》的表述。朝鲜1996年遭遇饥荒，导致成千上万人死亡时，林铉洙所在的教会便开始在该国活动。自那以后，该教会在朝鲜资助了一家养老院、一家托儿所和一家孤儿院。
North Korea, which zealously tries to shield its citizens from outside influences, has detained several foreign missionaries in recent years, accusing them of “anti state” crimes. In May 2014, an American citizen, Jeffrey Fowle, was arrested and accused of leaving a Bible in a hotel. He was released later that year.
近年来，极力想要阻止公民受外界影响的朝鲜羁押了多名外国传教士，指控他们犯了“反国家”罪。2014年5月，美国人杰弗里·福尔(Jeffrey Fowle)被捕，并被控把一本圣经留在了酒店。福尔于同年晚些时候获释。
Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for trying to establish a secret proselytizing network, was freed in November last year, after the United States government sent its director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea.
去年11月，在美国政府派国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)前往朝鲜后，韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)获释。早前，他因试图建立一个秘密的传教网络而被判处15年劳役。