WASHINGTON — New satellite photographs showing steam emerging from a newly-reconstructed nuclear reactor in North Korea suggest that the country may be making good on its promise to resume the production of plutonium for its small nuclear arsenal, six years after it reached an agreement with the Bush administration to dismantle the facility.
华盛顿——最新的卫星图片显示，朝鲜新改造完成的一个核反应堆在冒蒸汽，这表明，在同布什政府就拆除该设施达成协议六年之后，朝鲜可能正在兑现为构建小型核武库而恢复钚生产的威胁。
The discovery of the new activity at the Yongbyon nuclear complex, the centerpiece of North Korea’s nuclear program, was reported by the U.S.-Korea Institute, at Johns Hopkins University, which follows the North’s nuclear program closely.
宁边核设施是朝鲜核计划最重要的组成部分。报称那里出现新动向的是密切追踪朝鲜核计划的美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute)，该研究所设在约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)。
If the source of the steam proves to be the restarting of the reactor, it would enable the North, after a year or more, to begin to add to its current arsenal of plutonium weapons. It would also underscore the failure of efforts by four American presidents to stop the North Korean program; so far, the North has conducted three nuclear tests, including two during the Obama administration.
如果事实证明，蒸汽的源头确实是核反应堆的重启，它将让朝鲜有能力在一年或更久以后开始扩充自己现有的钚武器库。此外，此事也将突显四任美国总统在阻止朝鲜核计划方面的失败。时至今日，朝鲜已进行了三次核试验，包括奥巴马任内的两次。
In recent weeks the North Koreans have expressed a willingness to return to six-party negotiations on their nuclear program with the United States, China, Russia, South Korea and Japan, though they have not clarified if they would be willing to agree to the ultimate goal of disarmament. The United States and its allies have said they would resume the talks only if the North agreed to eventually give up its nuclear arsenal.
最近几周，朝鲜表示愿意重回与美国、中国、俄罗斯、韩国和日本就其核计划举行的六方会谈，但却没有阐明自己是否愿意接受核裁军这个最终目标。美国及其盟友已表示，只要朝鲜同意最终放弃核武库，它们就会重启谈判。
The re-emergence of steam at the plant — whether real or a contrivance — could well be designed to try to force the United States and its allies into talks in the hopes of winning economic aid, analysts say, by creating the fear that North Korea is preparing to add to its stockpile.
分析人士称，不管是真的还是人为制造的，该核反应堆再次冒出蒸汽的情况都多半是出于朝鲜的故意安排，目的是让外界担心自己正在为增加武器储备做准备，由此迫使美国及其盟友与自己谈判，以便获取经济援助。
But it could have the opposite effect. President Obama has been deeply reluctant to enter into any talks that would reward North Korea for halting activities it had already agreed to stop. His former secretary of defense, Robert M. Gates, once famously said that the United States was “tired of buying the same horse twice.” So far there have been no new offers to the North Koreans, and with attention focused on Syria and the Arab Spring uprisings, the administration has been reluctant to spend much political capital on a country that seems unlikely to give up its stockpile.
但是，这也可能适得其反。通过一些谈判，朝鲜会因停止某些活动而获得奖赏，而它实际上早已承诺不再进行那些活动。对于此类谈判，奥巴马总统完全不感兴趣。奥巴马的上一任国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)曾说过一句名言：美国已经“厌倦了两次购买同一匹马”。到目前为止，美国没有向朝鲜开出什么新的条件，而且，奥巴马政府目前正在集中精力应对叙利亚问题和阿拉伯之春，并不愿意在一个不太可能放弃军备的国家身上投入大量政治资本。
David Albright, the president of the Institute for Science and International Security, a Washington research group that tracks the North Korean nuclear program, said he had also studied satellite images of the complex and concluded that the venting steam suggested that the reactor had indeed begun working again.
华盛顿的科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)是一个追踪朝鲜核计划的研究机构，该所所长戴维·奥尔布赖特(David Albright)说，他也研究了该处设施的卫星图片，结论是冒出的蒸汽表明那座反应堆确已恢复运行。
“It implies that the reactor is restarted, but that needs to be confirmed,” he said in an interview. “You want to get confirmation because you never know” with the North Koreans. “They can surprise you,” he added, “but I can’t think of any alternative explanations.”
“这意味着反应堆已经重启，但还有待确认，”他在接受采访时说，“你需要进行确认，因为你永远搞不清”朝鲜人的意图。“他们总是能让你大吃一惊，”他接着说，“不过，我想不到还有什么其他解释。”
Mr. Albright added that the reactor would have to operate for two or three years in order to make plutonium in its core. Additional time, he said, would then be needed for the spent fuel to cool and the plutonium to be separated out from highly radioactive byproducts, known as reprocessing.
奥尔布赖特还说，要想在堆芯制造钚，反应堆必须运行两到三年时间。他表示，还得花一些时间来让乏燃料冷却，把钚从高放射性的副产品中分离出来，也就是所谓的再加工。
In all, Mr. Albright said, it might take the North Koreans three to four years to complete the manufacturing process, at which point they would have enough added plutonium to make anywhere from two to five more nuclear weapons. American intelligence officials say the country already has enough plutonium for six to a dozen bombs.
奥尔布赖特说，总的来说，朝鲜可能需要3到4年的时间来完成制造过程，届时他们会有足够多的新增钚，可以制作2到5件核武器。美国情报官员说，朝鲜目前就有足以制造6到12枚核弹的钚。
A South Korean government intelligence official on Thursday said that the government needed more time to figure out if the reactor had been restarted. “After all, the country we’re trying to figure out is North Korea,” he said.
一名韩国政府情报官员周四说，政府需要花更多的时间才能弄清楚朝鲜是否已经重启该反应堆。“毕竟，我们试图弄清楚的国家是朝鲜。”他说。
But he quickly added that both Washington and Seoul have increased monitoring on Yongbyon, the North’s main nuclear complex, 62 miles north of Pyongyang, since North Korea declared in April that it would put all its nuclear facilities — including the mothballed reactor — to use in expanding its nuclear weapons stockpile.
但他很快补充说，今年4月，朝鲜宣布将动用包括封存反应堆在内的所有核设施来扩大核武库，自此之后，华盛顿和首尔已经加强了对宁边的监视。宁边是朝鲜的主要核基地，位于平壤以北62英里。
The original agreement to halt operations at the nuclear complex was hailed at the time as a breakthrough, especially when the North showed the destruction of part of the plant on television in 2008.
原先的宁边核基地停运协议在当时被誉为一个突破，尤其是在2008年，因为朝鲜在电视上播出了部分拆毁该基地的画面。
In return, the State Department removed North Korea from its list of state sponsors of terrorism. That agreement began to fall apart within a year after it was signed, when the North Koreans evicted inspectors and began to rebuild parts of the reactor complex that they had dismantled.
作为回报，美国国务院从“支持恐怖主义的国家”名单当中去掉了朝鲜。然而，该协议签署不到一年就开始瓦解，当时朝鲜驱逐了核查人员，并开始重建反应堆基地已经被他们拆除的那部分。
In April, at the height of tension created by the North’s nuclear test two months earlier and the United Nations Security Council’s retaliatory sanctions, the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un convened a meeting of the Central Committee of the ruling Workers’ Party to declare that his nuclear weapons were “not a bargaining chip” and called for expanding his country’s nuclear arsenal both in “quality and quantity.”
朝鲜今年2月进行了核试验，联合国安理会对其实施了惩罚性制裁，由此而来的紧张局势在4月达到高点，朝鲜领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)召开了执政党劳动党的中央委员会会议，宣称他的核武器“不是一个讨价还价的筹码”，并呼吁从“质量和数量”两方面提升朝鲜的核武库。
North Korea also has a uranium program, but that program is believed to have started after the plutonium program and it is unclear whether it has produced enough uranium for a weapon or even whether the last nuclear test was of uranium or plutonium.
朝鲜还制定了一项铀计划，但这项计划据信是在钚计划之后才启动的。目前还不清楚朝鲜是否已经生产出了足以制造一件武器的铀，人们甚至不清楚，它最新一次核试验用的是铀还是钚。
The latest news comes as North Korea has significantly toned down its warlike rhetoric, restored military hot lines with the South cut off several months ago, and agreed to restart a jointly run industrial complex as well as a program of reuniting Korean families separated by the Korean War.
现在朝鲜已经明显淡化了其好战言论，恢复了数月前切断的与韩国之间的军事热线，并同意重新启动两国合营的工业园区，以及朝鲜战争失散家庭的团聚计划，前述最新消息就是在这样的背景下出现的。
But analysts said such mixed signals were not unusual.
但分析师表示，这种混合信号并非不同寻常。
“North Korea’s latest ‘peace offensive’ is almost preordained,” said Lee Sung-yoon, a North Korea specialist at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, calling it part of North Korea’s timeworn tactic of raising tensions to remind its adversaries that it is a menace that needs placating, then reaping the dividends of economic and diplomatic concessions.
塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)弗莱彻法律与外交学院(Fletcher School of Lawand Diplomacy)朝鲜问题专家李成允(Lee Sung-yoon)说，“几乎可以说，朝鲜最新的‘和平攻势’是早已注定的事情。”他称朝鲜这是在使用老战术，增加紧张气氛，让对手们意识到它是一个需要安抚的威胁，然后从对手做出的经济和外交让步中获益。
“Through its latest ‘conciliatory’ gestures, it seeks in the short term to bolster Kim Jong-un’s credentials as a ‘statesman,’ ” Mr. Lee said. “In the long term, Pyongyang seeks to advance its strategic interests of improving its ballistic missiles and nuclear arsenal.”
“借由最近摆出的‘和解’姿态，朝鲜试图在短期内提升金正恩作为一名‘政治家’的声望， ”李成允说。 “从长远来看，朝鲜的目标是推进其改善弹道导弹和核武库的战略利益。 ”
Lee Byong-chul, a senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, said the attempts to negotiate might be driven by economic difficulties, some of them brought on by the international sanctions. “They are desperate for cash,” Mr. Lee said.
首尔的和平与合作研究所(Institute for Peace and Cooperation)高级研究员李炳哲( Lee Byong-chul)说，朝鲜试图进行谈判，可能是出于经济上的困难，国际制裁是造成这种困难的部分原因。“他们对现金的需求非常急切。”李炳哲说。