SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea launched four ballistic missiles from its long-range rocket launch site Monday morning, the South Korean military said. The launch prompted South Korean security officials to call for the early deployment of an advanced U.S. missile defense system that has provoked China.
韩国首尔——据韩国军方表示，周一早间，朝鲜从其远程火箭发射场发射了四枚弹道导弹。这次发射，促使韩国安全官员呼吁尽早部署一种先进的美国导弹防御系统，该防御系统已激怒了中国。
The missiles took off from Tongchang-ri, in northwest North Korea, and flew an average of 620 miles before falling into the sea between North Korea and Japan, said Noh Jae-chon, a South Korean military spokesman. The type of missile fired was not immediately clear, but Noh said it was unlikely that they were intercontinental ballistic missiles, which the North had recently threatened to test-launch.
韩国军方发言人卢在容（Noh Jae-chon，音）说，导弹从位于朝鲜西北部的东仓里发射，飞行了620英里后落入朝鲜与日本间的海域。目前尚不清楚导弹的型号，但卢在容表示不太可能是洲际弹道导弹，朝鲜一直在威胁要试验发射这种导弹。
During a meeting of the South Korea’s National Security Council, Hwang Kyo-ahn, the acting president of South Korea, called for the early deployment of the U.S. missile defense system known as THAAD, or Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense.
在国家安全委员会的一次会议上，韩国代理总统黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)呼吁尽早部署名为“萨德”的美国导弹防御系统，即末段高空区域防御系统。
The United States and South Korea have agreed to complete the THAAD deployment within the year. They say it is meant to protect South Korea and U.S. military sites there from North Korean missiles.
美国与韩国已同意在今年内完成对萨德的部署。两国表示，这一防御系统是为了保护在韩国的韩美军事基地不受朝鲜导弹威胁。
Hwang also called on his government to look aggressively for “ways to effectively strengthen the United States’ extended deterrence” for South Korea, referring to Washington’s ability to deter attacks on its allies with the help of its nuclear forces. Hwang did not elaborate, but his comment came days after The New York Times reported that President Donald Trump’s national security deputies recently discussed various options against North Korea, including the possibility of reintroducing nuclear weapons to South Korea as a bold warning.
黄教安同时还呼吁政府积极寻找“有效加强美国对韩国‘延伸的威慑’的方法”，即华盛顿在核力量的帮助下，制止针对其盟友的攻击。黄教安并未对此详细说明，但在这番言论的前几天，《纽约时报》报道了特朗普总统的国家安全事务副手于近期讨论了各种针对朝鲜可采取的手段，包括重新在韩国部署核武器，借此发出严重警告的可能性。
“If North Korea gets a hold of nuclear weapons, its consequences are too horrible to think about,” Hwang said.
“如果朝鲜有了核武器，后果将不堪设想，”黄教安说。
In his New Year’s Day speech, the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un, said his country was in the “final stage” of preparing for its first ICBM test. In February, the North launched a ballistic missile that the U.S. Strategic Command determined was not a threat to the United States.
在新年讲话中，朝鲜领导人金正恩表示该国已处于准备其首次洲际弹道导弹测试的“最后阶段”。2月，朝鲜发射了一枚弹道导弹，美军战略司令部认定其对美国不构成威胁。