SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has agreed to open a new investigation into the fate of Japanese citizens abducted by its agents during the Cold War, the two countries said Thursday, signaling a possible diplomatic breakthrough in an emotional issue that has divided Japan and the North.
韩国首尔——朝鲜与日本周四表示，朝鲜已同意对冷战期间被朝鲜特工绑架的日本公民的命运展开新调查。此事表明，这一使日朝两国出现分歧的敏感问题可能会取得外交突破。
At talks held in Stockholm, North Korean negotiators agreed to Japanese requests to investigate what happened to more than a dozen Japanese believed to have been kidnapped by the isolated Stalinist regime decades ago, reversing the North’s earlier insistence that the issue had been settled.
相关对话在斯德哥尔摩举行，朝鲜谈判代表同意了日本的要求，答应对数十年前据信被孤立的斯大林式朝鲜政权绑架的一二十位日本人的命运展开调查，改变了朝鲜此前坚持此事已得到解决的立场。
The top Japanese government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said that in return, Japan would start lifting sanctions that it had imposed on the North over the abduction issue. Those include a ban on travel between the two countries, on the transfer of money, and also on visits by North Korean ships to Japanese ports, he said.
日本政府首席发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)说，作为回报，日本将开始放松因绑架事件而对朝鲜实施的制裁。他说，这些制裁包括一项针对两国之间交通往来、资金流动及朝鲜船只前往日本港口的禁令。
“We expect this to yield concrete results in quickly resolving problems involving Japanese, including the return of any surviving abductees,” Mr. Suga told reporters.
菅义伟对记者说，“我们希望调查能产生实质性的结果，快速解决与日本人相关的问题，包括幸存被绑架者回国的问题。”
The deal could lead to a resolution of a problem that had driven Japan to cut off virtually all ties with North Korea ever since the North admitted in 2002 that it had kidnapped Japanese citizens, and returned five of them alive.
朝鲜于2002年承认曾绑架日本公民，并把其中五名幸存者送回了日本，自那以后，日本几乎切断了与朝鲜的所有联系。前述协议可能会使绑架问题得到解决。
The Japanese public was outraged by the revelations, and by the vague and often puzzling accounts that the North Korean government gave of the fate of several other abductees, who it said had died. Most of them were snatched by North Korean agents in the 1970s and 1980s as they relaxed on the beach or walked home from school. Their fate had been a mystery until the North’s sudden admission.
关于绑架事件的报道，以及朝鲜政府对其他几名被绑架者——朝鲜政府曾称这些人已经死亡——的命运含糊而往往令人疑惑的描述，都让日本公众感到愤怒。受害者大多是在20世纪70和80年代被朝鲜特工绑架的，遭到绑架之时，有的人正在海滩上休息，有的人正走在放学回家的路上。朝鲜突然坦白之前，这些人的命运一直是一个谜。
Japan has been pressing North Korea ever since to produce a fuller account of what happened to the other abductees, amid unconfirmed reports that some had been seen alive even after 2002 in the North, one of the world’s most closed and secretive countries. North Korean diplomats had rejected those demands, saying it had disclosed all the information on them that it had.
日本一直向朝鲜施压，要求其更全面地说明这些被绑架者的遭遇，与此同时，一些未得证实的报道称，2002年之后，有人在朝鲜看见，一些被绑架者仍然活着。朝鲜是全世界最封闭、最神秘的国家之一。之前，朝鲜外交官一直拒绝日方的要求，称已经公布了自己掌握的所有相关信息。
The North’s willingness to reverse that stance may signal a new desire by the dictator Kim Jong-un to open his impoverished nation ever more slightly to the outside world, either to bolster its decrepit economy or to reduce its dependence on China, its main trading partner.
朝鲜愿意改变前述立场，可能意味着独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)又产生了向外界稍微开放自己那个贫穷国家的愿望，其目的要么是提振凋敝的经济，要么是减少对主要贸易伙伴中国的依赖。
For Japan, the possible breakthrough is a rare diplomatic success for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a conservative who has presided over a souring of ties with other neighbors, China and South Korea.
对日本而言，前述的潜在突破是首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在外交上少有的成功。在保守派安倍晋三的领导下，日本与中韩两个邻国之间的关系不断恶化。
“The complete resolution of the abductee issue is one of the top priorities of the Abe administration,” Mr. Abe said in announcing the deal. “Our mission is not over until all the families of abductees can once again hold their children in their arms.”
“彻底解决绑架问题是安倍政府的首要任务之一，”安倍晋三在宣布这一协议时说。“等到所有被绑架者的家人都能再次将孩子拥入怀中，我们的使命才算完成了。”
As part of Thursday’s deal, Mr. Suga said, North Korea agreed to set up a committee to conduct an internal investigation into what happened to the abductees. The committee will also examine the fate of other Japanese in the North, including those who accompanied their Korean spouses to the country in the 1950s, and search for the remains of Japanese who died there in the chaotic final days of World War II.
菅义伟称，作为周四协议的一部分，朝鲜已同意成立一个委员会，就被绑架者的遭遇展开内部调查。该委员会还将调查其他在朝日本人的命运，包括那些在上世纪50年代陪同朝鲜配偶前往该国的人。此外，该委员会将搜寻在混乱的二战末期死于朝鲜的日本人的遗骸。
Mr. Suga also said that North Korea had agreed to return any surviving abductees that it found. Though it is unclear if any could still be alive after so many years, and after the North had already declared them all to be dead, the statement reflected the hopes of Japanese families to be reunited with their missing loved ones.
菅义伟还表示，朝鲜已经同意，会将找到的所有幸存被绑架者送回日本。由于时隔多年，朝鲜又曾宣称所有被绑架者都已离世，目前尚不清楚是否有人健在，尽管如此，前述声明还是表明，日本家庭依然有望与失踪的亲人团圆。