YANGON, Myanmar — Long before Sony Pictures released “The Interview,” a comedy about a fictitious C.I.A. plot to kill North Korea’s leader, Pyongyang had declared war against the movie. It has since been blamed for a cyberattack on Sony’s computers. Now, it appears that the country’s famously touchy diplomats have taken the dispute much farther afield: to the streets of Yangon, Myanmar.
缅甸仰光——索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)制作的喜剧《采访》(The Interview)讲述了中央情报局(CIA)密谋杀死朝鲜领导人的虚构故事，早在影片上映前，平壤就已经对这部电影宣战。此后发生的一场针对索尼公司电脑的网络攻击，被认为是该国所为。如今，它那些以易怒而闻名的外交官又将争端带到了更远的地方：缅甸仰光的街头。
DVD vendors in Yangon, Myanmar’s largest city, said that in recent days, officials from the North Korean Embassy visited shops across the city, asking whether they carried bootleg copies of “The Interview.” Since then, the sellers said, the police have begun a citywide crackdown on the pirated copies, sometimes accompanied by North Korean officials.
缅甸最大城市仰光的影碟商贩表示，近日朝鲜大使馆官员到全市各地的商店询问他们是否在卖《采访》的盗版。商贩们说，随后警察开始在全市打击盗版碟销售，有时会有朝鲜官员一同前往。
The movie, which had been a best seller here, has now disappeared from larger DVD shops, and many roadside vendors have also stopped hawking it.
这部一直在热卖的影片，如今已在较大的影碟店消失，很多路边摊贩也不再叫卖它。
Daw Thin, a DVD seller in the city’s Chinatown district, said that during a raid, a police officer she has known for a long time told her that the North Korean Embassy had provided a list of shops selling the film.
在仰光唐人街卖影碟的杜丁(Daw Thin)说，在一次突击搜查中，一个跟她相识多年的警官告诉她，朝鲜大使馆提供了一份售卖该片的店铺清单。
U Ye Htut, the information minister and a presidential spokesman, denied that the latest clampdown on bootleg DVDs targeted any individual movie.
信息部长、总统发言人叶杜(U Ye Htut)否认近日打击盗版光碟是针对任何具体的电影。
Repeated calls to the North Korean Embassy in Yangon went unanswered. But an officer in Yangon’s Special Branch police, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he feared he would be dismissed for talking to the news media, said the North Korean ambassador, Kim Sok-chol, had complained about sales of “The Interview” when he met with Yangon’s chief minister a week ago, and had provided a list of shops selling it.
记者多次致电仰光朝鲜大使馆，但没人接听电话。仰光政治保安处一位警官称，朝鲜大使金石哲(Kim Sok-chol)一周前跟仰光首席部长见面时就《采访》售卖一事表示抗议，并提供了一份售卖店铺的清单。由于担心会因为和新闻媒体接触被解职，这名警官要求在本文中匿名。
It remains unclear how North Korean officials apparently persuaded the Myanmar authorities to help them wage their campaign against the film.
目前仍不清楚，朝鲜官员是如何说服缅甸当局协助这次针对该片的行动的。
Myanmar severed ties with North Korea after blaming the North’s agents for bombing a presidential delegation from South Korea as it visited Yangon in 1983, and the two countries did not restore relations until 2007. But American officials and security analysts have long suspected that the nations maintained a secret relationship, with North Korea helping Myanmar procure weapons and build underground military facilities.
由于认为朝鲜特工在韩国总统代表团访问仰光时发动了炸弹袭击，两国于1983年断交，直到2007年才恢复关系。但美国官员和分析人士一直怀疑，两国之间保持着秘密联系，朝鲜在帮助缅甸获取武器，建造地下军事设施。
Bertil Lintner, a Thailand-based author who has written about relations between Myanmar and North Korea, said the removal of “The Interview” from Yangon’s shops showed “that the North Koreans still have a lot of leverage in Burma,” as Myanmar is known.
身在泰国的缅朝关系专家博蒂尔·林特纳(Bertil Lintner)说，清除仰光店铺中的《采访》拷贝表明，“朝鲜人在缅甸还是有相当的影响力，”他使用了缅甸旧称Burma。
Sony has released the movie to some theaters and Internet services in the United States but has not begun selling DVDs, although bootleg copies have been widely available in many places — including in North Korea, according to defectors.
索尼已经在美国一些影院放映此片，并通过互联网发行，然而影片的盗版拷贝已经在很多地方出现——据脱北者称，其中包括朝鲜。
U Lin Lin, a DVD vendor near the Bogyoke market in central Yangon, said the police involved in the crackdown had mainly taken copies of “The Interview” and had been accompanied by North Korean officials during their raids.
在仰光市中心的将军市场(Bogyoke)附近贩卖光碟的林林(Lin Lin)说，打击行动中警方主要针对的是《采访》，并且在行动中有朝鲜官员随行。
“ ‘The Interview’ DVDs have been available since the first week of January,” he said. “For a small roadside vendor like me, I sold around 20 copies a day, and big shops in Chinatown sold more than 100 copies a day before the crackdown.”
“《采访》影碟是一月第一周开卖的，”他说。“像我们这种路边摊，打击前一天能卖20张左右，唐人街的大店一天能卖100张以上。”
Daw Khine Khine, owner of another DVD shop in Chinatown, said: “ ‘The Interview’ is produced by America. I don’t understand why the North Koreans are involved in seizing it.”
另一家唐人街影碟店老板金金(Khine Khine)说：“《采访》是美国拍的。不明白为什么没收会跟朝鲜人扯上关系。”
Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, rules his impoverished country with the help of a personality cult surrounding his family. His government is particularly sensitive to any outside criticism or ridicule of the family, which has ruled the country for decades. Despite its proclamations that the movie was an act of “international terrorism,” Pyongyang has denied involvement in the hacking of Sony, which the United States says the North Koreans engineered.
朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)通过围绕着他的家族建立起来的个人崇拜来统治这个贫困的国家。他的政府对外界批评或嘲弄家族的事尤为敏感，这个家族已经统治该国数十载。尽管宣称影片是一种“国际恐怖主义”行为，平壤方面否认和索尼被黑客攻击一事有关，而美国认为攻击是由朝鲜策划的。
Sony had shelved “The Interview” after the hacking and threats against theaters, but it later reversed its decision, releasing the movie online and at a limited number of theaters.
在公司电脑遭到攻击，影院也接到威胁后，索尼一度将《采访》的发行计划搁置，但后来推翻了之前的决定，在网上以及部分影院放映了该片。
The crackdown in Yangon was not the first time North Korean diplomats had taken steps to protect their leader’s image in Myanmar.
仰光的行动并非朝鲜外交官首次在缅甸采取行动，维护其领袖的形象。