SEOUL, South Korea — In a new dare to the United States and its allies, North Korea has notified the United Nations agency responsible for navigation safety that it is planning to launch a long-range rocket this month to put a satellite into orbit.
韩国首尔——朝鲜再次激将美国及其盟友，通知联合国负责航行安全的机构称，为把一颗卫星送入轨道，该国计划于本月发射一枚远程火箭。
The agency, the International Maritime Organization, said Tuesday that it had received a notification from the North Korean authorities of a multistage rocket launch between the hours of 7 a.m. and noon local time, on an as-yet unspecified day between Feb. 8 and 25. An agency spokeswoman, Natasha Brown, said North Korea’s notification described the payload as an Earth observation satellite it called Kwangmyongsong, which translates as Lode Star.
国际海事组织(International Maritime Organization)周二称收到了朝鲜当局的通知，内容是该国将于2月8日至25日期间的某一天，在当地时间早上7点到正午之间发射一枚多级火箭。该组织的女发言人娜塔莎·布朗(Natasha Brown)称，朝鲜的通知说火箭搭载的是一颗叫“光明星”(Kwangmyongsong)的地球观测卫星。
If the launch goes as planned, the notification said, the rocket’s first stage will fall in waters off the west coast of South Korea and the second stage in waters east of the Philippines.
通知称，如果发射按计划进行，火箭的第一级将坠入韩国西海岸附近的水域，第二级则将落入菲律宾以东水域。
The notification followed warnings to North Korea advising against a launch from the United States and allied nations, which consider such a step a cover for developing an intercontinental ballistic missile that can deliver a nuclear bomb. Under a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions, North Korea is barred from developing nuclear weapons or ballistic missile technologies.
在朝鲜发布通知前，美国及其盟友警告该国，不要进行发射活动。它们认为，朝鲜是在用这种行动作为幌子，研发可以搭载核弹头的洲际弹道导弹。联合国安理会的一系列决议禁止朝鲜研制核武器和弹道导弹技术。
North Korea had notified the International Maritime Organization of some earlier rocket tests.
朝鲜早前进行的一些火箭试射也通报了国际海事组织。
Another United Nations agency, the International Telecommunication Union, said Tuesday that it also had been notified by the North Koreans of an impending launch of the Kwangmyongsong satellite, but without specifying a date range. An agency spokesman, Sanjay Acharya, said it had been advised by Kim Kwang-chol, the North Korean minister of posts and telecommunications, that the satellite was designed to function for four years.
联合国下属的另一机构国际电信联盟(International Telecommunication Union)周二称，它也收到了朝鲜即将发射“光明星”卫星的通知，但并未具体说日期范围。该机构发言人桑贾伊·阿查里雅(Sanjay Acharya)称，朝鲜邮政电信部长金光哲（Kim Kwang-chol，音）告诉该机构，该卫星的设计运行期限是四年。
North Korea insists that its rocket program is peaceful, aimed at launching satellites to gather data for weather forecasting and for other scientific purposes. But after the country successfully put a Kwangmyongsong satellite into orbit by using its Unha-3 rocket in December 2012, the United States worried that in the process, the North was also moving toward acquiring the ability to deliver a nuclear warhead on a long-range ballistic missile.
朝鲜坚称其火箭计划是和平的，旨在发射搜集数据的卫星，用于天气预报和其他科学目的。但在该国2012年12月成功地用自己的“银河3号”(Unha–3)火箭把一颗“光明星”卫星送入轨道后，美国担心在这个过程中，朝鲜也逐步接近了在远程弹道导弹上搭载核弹头的水平。
That Unha-3, a three-stage rocket, blasted off from the Tongchang-ri launching site near the country’s northwestern border with China.
三级火箭“银河3号”是从东仓里发射场发射的。该发射场位于朝鲜西北部，距离中国边境不远。
American and South Korean officials have been monitoring the site for signs of preparations for another rocket launch, especially after North Korea conducted its fourth nuclear test on Jan. 6.
美国和韩国官员一直在监视该发射场，寻找朝鲜准备再次发射的迹象，特别是在朝鲜1月6日进行了第四次核试验之后。
The United States and its allies are working to muster international support for a new Security Council resolution imposing another round of sanctions against the North. They have expressed concern that the North might attempt a long-range rocket test in retaliation.
美国及其盟友正在努力争取国际社会支持，推动安理会通过新的决议，对朝鲜实行另一轮制裁。它们担心，朝鲜可能会为了报复而试图进行远程火箭试射。
In a report published last Thursday on 38 North, a United States website specializing in North Korea, Jack Liu, an expert on North Korea’s rocket program, said it appeared to be “in the early stages of preparation for launching a space launch vehicle.” He used recent satellite images of the site for his analysis.
在专门报道朝鲜新闻的美国网站38 North上周四发表的一份报告中，研究朝鲜火箭计划的专家杰克·刘(Jack Liu)称，朝鲜似乎处在“发射一种太空发射工具的早期准备阶段”。他的分析使用了该发射场最近的卫星图像。
South Korean intelligence officials said that in its 2012 rocket launch, North Korea was actually testing a design for a ballistic missile that could eventually fly more than 6,200 miles with a warhead of about 1,100 to 1,300 pounds, putting the West Coast of the United States in range.
韩国情报官员称，2012年发射火箭时，朝鲜实际上是在试验一种弹道导弹设计。该弹道导弹最终可能会携带一颗大约1100磅到1300磅重（约合500公斤到590公斤）的弹头，飞行6200多英里（约合10000公里）。美国西海岸处在其射程内。
North Korea has recently completed renovating its Tongchang-ri site to be able to launch a rocket more powerful than any tested so far.
朝鲜最近完成了对东仓里发射场的翻修，该发射场现在能够发射的火箭，比此前发射的任何火箭都更强大。
Though it is widely believed to have at least several nuclear weapons, North Korea has never tested a missile that could deliver one beyond its home region. Some analysts have also said the North needed more tests to acquire the ability to produce a warhead that could survive re-entry from space, or one small enough to mount on a long-range missile.
尽管外界普遍认为朝鲜拥有至少几件核武器，但朝鲜从未试射过能把核武器发射到其所在地区之外的导弹。一些分析人士称，朝鲜需要进行更多试验，才能取得必要的技术能力，制造出能从太空重新进入大气层，或是小到可以搭载在远程导弹上的核弹头。
North Korea is preparing to celebrate the Feb. 16 birthday of Kim Jong-il, the father of the current leader, Kim Jong-un, and a large congress of the ruling Workers’ Party in May. Some analysts have said that Mr. Kim wanted to show off advances in his nuclear and long-range missile programs ahead of those events.
朝鲜正在筹备庆祝2月16日现任领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)的诞辰，执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)也将于5月举行大型的代表大会。一些分析人士称，金正恩想在这些活动之前展示其核计划和远程导弹计划取得的进展。