SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea fired two ballistic missiles off its east coast on Sunday, flouting a United Nations ban on the country testing such missiles. The test came four days before President Xi Jinping of China was scheduled to visit Seoul, South Korea, his first trip to the Korean Peninsula as Beijing’s leader.
韩国首尔——周日，朝鲜在其东海岸发射了两枚弹道导弹，违反了联合国(United Nations)禁止朝鲜进行此类试射的规定。四天后，中国国家主席习近平将访问韩国首尔，这将是他作为中国领导人首次访问朝鲜半岛。
The two Scud-type missiles flew 500 kilometers, or about 310 miles, and landed in waters between North Korea and Japan, officials at the Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff of the South Korean military said on Sunday. North Korea regularly tests short-range rockets and missiles. It fired three short-range projectiles off its coast on Thursday. Its state media later said that its leader, Kim Jong-un, supervised what it called the test firings of a new type of precision-guided missile.
韩国军方联合参谋本部(Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff)官员周日表示，这两枚飞毛腿(Scud)式的导弹飞行了500公里，最后落入了朝鲜与日本之间的海域。朝鲜经常定期试射近程火箭和导弹。周四，朝鲜在其海岸附近发射了三枚近程导弹。朝鲜官方媒体随后称，这是一种新型精确制导武器，还报道朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)对试射进行了指导。
The North’s neighboring countries found its firings on Sunday more provocative because a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions banned the country from testing any ballistic missile technology for fear it was developing an intercontinental ballistic missile with a nuclear warhead.
朝鲜的邻国认为，朝鲜周日的试射具有更强烈的挑衅意味。因为担心朝鲜正在研发搭载核弹头的洲际弹道导弹，联合国安理会曾做出一系列决议，禁止朝鲜测试任何弹道导弹技术。
Although North Korea had to test its missiles to improve its technology, outside analysts said that the country often timed such test firings to make a political impact in the region, especially when the leaders or negotiators of neighboring governments gathered to discuss their policies on the North. North Korea launched two midrange Rodong ballistic missiles in March, when President Obama met with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on the sidelines of a nuclear security summit meeting in The Hague and condemned its nuclear ambitions.
虽然朝鲜必须通过导弹测试来改进相关技术，但外部分析人士表示，朝鲜经常利用这种试射来对该地区施加政治影响，尤其是在邻国政府领导人或谈判代表聚集起来讨论对朝政策的时候。3月，朝鲜发射了两枚中程“劳动”(Rodong)弹道导弹，当时美国总统奥巴马正在海牙核安全峰会的附属会议上与韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)举行会晤，并对朝鲜的核野心表示了谴责。
Mr. Xi was scheduled to arrive in Seoul on Thursday for a two-day trip that included a meeting with Ms. Park. While announcing Mr. Xi’s trip to Seoul, Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, maintained that China had a “fair and objective position” on the Korean Peninsula.
按计划，习近平将于周四抵达首尔，开始为期两天的访问，届时他还将会见朴槿惠。在宣布习近平即将出访首尔的消息时，中国外交部发言人秦刚坚称，中国对朝鲜半岛问题持“客观、公正立场”。
But the South Korean news media played up the fact that Mr. Xi was the first Chinese president to visit Seoul before Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, after assuming the top leadership in Beijing. Some interpreted it as a possible sign that Beijing might be rearranging its priorities between South and North Korea, China’s traditional ally.
但是，习近平是就任中国最高领导人后，第一位在访问朝鲜首都平壤之前访问首尔的中国国家主席。韩国新闻媒体对这个事实高调渲染，有人解读，这或许意味着北京可能会重新调整与韩国及其传统盟友朝鲜之间的亲疏态度。
Ms. Park has been eager to reach out to Beijing, meeting Mr. Xi four times and urging China to use its economic leverage to curb North Korea’s nuclear ambitions.
朴槿惠急切地想与中国接触，与习近平四次会面，并敦促中国用经济手段遏制朝鲜的核野心。
In contrast, the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has never met Mr. Xi or visited Beijing since he took over after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011.
相比之下，朝鲜领导人金正恩在父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)于2011年底去世，自己接掌权力以来，从未与习近平举行过会面，也未曾访问过北京。
Analysts here said that had as much to do with Mr. Kim’s preoccupation with consolidating his domestic control as with Beijing’s growing frustration with North Korea, which ignored China’s appeals and conducted its third nuclear test in February 2012.
韩国的分析人士表示，这与金正恩专注于巩固自己在国内的控制，以及北京对朝鲜越来越失望有关。2012年2月，朝鲜不顾中国的呼吁，进行了第三次核试验。
There have been indications that North Korea is becoming increasingly concerned that its economic dependence on trade with China has deepened while it struggles to overcome United Nations sanctions.
朝鲜在艰难克服联合国制裁之时，也加深了对对华贸易的依赖。有迹象表明，朝鲜对这种局面越来越担心。
When Jang Song-thaek, Mr. Kim’s powerful uncle, was executed late last year, North Korea accused him and his followers of giving away its natural resources at cheap prices to China.
去年年底处决金正恩势力强大的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)时，朝鲜曾谴责张成泽及其追随者将自然资源低价卖给中国。
On Saturday, the North’s main party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, carried a full front-page editorial emphasizing the country’s “juche” — or self-reliance — ideology and warning against “the pressure from big countries.”
周六，朝鲜主要的党报《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)在头版以整版篇幅刊登了一篇社论，强调朝鲜的“主体思想”（即自力更生），并告诫要提防“来自大国的压力”。
North Korea has recently appeared to bolster its ties with Moscow as a possible counterbalance against China. On Saturday, the North and Russia staged a rare joint march of their military music bands through central Pyongyang, according to the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.
朝鲜最近似乎在加强与莫斯科的联系，作为一种制衡中国的可能方式。朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)称，朝鲜和俄罗斯的军乐团在平壤市中心举行了一次少有的联合游行。
Russia increased oil exports to North Korea last year and renovated its rail link with the country, while a lack of official oil exports to North Korea in China’s recent trade data prompted speculation that Beijing might be increasing economic pressure on the North. In April, a senior Russian government delegation visited Pyongyang with a gift of fire engines. Russia has also recently agreed to write off most of the $11 billion North Korea owed to the old Soviet Union.
俄罗斯去年增加了对朝鲜的石油出口，并对连接朝鲜的铁路线进行了整修。而中国最近公布的贸易数据中没有对朝鲜的官方石油出口，这让人们开始猜测，北京可能正在加大对朝鲜的经济压力。4月，俄罗斯政府的一支高级代表团访问平壤，并带去了消防车作为礼物。前不久，俄罗斯还同意，从朝鲜欠前苏联的110亿美元（约合680亿元人民币）债务中免除一大部分。