SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Wednesday that it saw no reason to negotiate with the “gangster-like” United States any more, warning that it was ready to fight any type of war with Americans, including ones involving cyberattacks and nuclear weapons.
韩国首尔——周三，朝鲜表示自己没有理由再与“匪徒般的”美国进行任何谈判。同时向美国提出警告，说它已准备就绪，可以与之进行任何形式的战争，包括网络战和核战。
In a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency, the North’s National Defense Commission said Wednesday that now that the United States intended to “bring down” the North’s government and unleash a “war of aggression,” it, too, was ready to fight with “miniaturized, precision and diversified nuclear-striking means,” as well as “cyberwarfare means,” to “write the last page” of American history.
在官媒朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)公布的一则声明中，朝鲜国防委员会(National Defense Commission)周三表示，既然美国想要“推翻”朝鲜政府并且发动一场“侵略战争”，朝鲜自己也已经准备好用“微型化、精准且多样的核打击手段”和“网络战手段”，来为美国历史“写下最后一页”。
In an interview carried on YouTube on Jan. 22, President Obama predicted that a state like North Korea would “collapse” over time, saying that the Internet would inevitably penetrate North Korea, isolated as it was, with its democratic influences.
1月22号，在一个YouTube采访录像中，奥巴马总统预言随着时间的推移，像朝鲜这样的国家将会“崩溃”。奥巴马说道，不管朝鲜有多么孤立，互联网上的民主观念终将渗透进这个国家。
North Korea was further angered in recent weeks that its offers for talks were rejected by both the United States and South Korea. On Sunday, North Korea accused Washington of rejecting its invitation for Sung Kim, the top American nuclear envoy on the North, to visit North Korea. The United States and South Korea insisted that talks would be possible only when the North showed “sincerity” in ending its nuclear weapons program.
更加激怒朝鲜的是，近几周美国和韩国都拒绝了朝鲜的对话提议。周日，朝鲜指责华盛顿拒绝让美国朝鲜核问题高级使节金成(Sung Kim)受邀赴朝。美韩坚称，如果朝鲜不展示出终结其核武器计划的“诚意”，对话是不可能的。
Earlier this year, North Korea offered to suspend its nuclear tests if the United States and South Korea canceled their annual joint military exercises, scheduled to begin in March. Washington rejected the proposal.
今年早些时候，朝鲜提出如果美韩取消计划在3月进行的年度联合军演，它将暂停核试验。华盛顿随后拒绝了此提议。
North Korea typically lashes out at both the United States and South Korea just before they begin the annual joint military drills. Its leader, Kim Jong-un, has recently carried out inspections of field exercises by the North Korean military, exhorting his troops to be ready for war.
朝鲜一般都会在美韩年度联合军演的前夕对二者进行抨击。朝鲜领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)最近视察了朝鲜军队的实战演习，呼吁士兵们积极备战。