SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea issued standing orders on Wednesday for the “miserable dog’s death” execution of South Korea’s imprisoned former president and her spy chief, and improbably demanded that its southern adversary extradite them.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周三发布长期有效的命令，要求让被关押的韩国前总统及其情报主管“凄惨无谓的送命”，并出人意料地要求势不两立的韩国将他们引渡。
The execution orders, which the North said could be carried out anytime, anywhere and by any means, amounted to an assassination decree against the imprisoned former president, Park Geun-hye, and Lee Byung-ho, who was director of the National Intelligence Service under Ms. Park.
处决命令相当于对身陷囹圄的前总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)和她任内的韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)院长李炳浩发出的暗杀令。朝鲜称，可在任何时间和任何地方以任何方式执行相关命令。
Conveyed in a statement issued via North Korea’s official news agency, the execution orders came nearly two months after the isolated, nuclear-armed country accused the South Korean intelligence service of conspiring with the C.I.A. to assassinate the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, using biochemical poisons.
朝鲜是在通过官方通讯社发表的一份声明中，传达处决令的。近两个月前，与世隔绝但拥有核武器的朝鲜控告韩国国家情报院与美国中央情报局(CIA)合谋，企图用生化毒药暗杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)。
“We declare at home and abroad that we will impose death penalty on traitor Park Geun-hye and Mr. Lee,” said the statement from the North’s Ministry of State Security, Ministry of People’s Security and Central Public Prosecutors Office. The statement said the pair’s crime was “hideous state-sponsored terrorism.”
“向内外宣布，对谋划和推进陷害朝鲜最高首脑的天怒人怨阴谋的特大国家恐怖罪犯——朴槿惠逆贼和傀儡国情院前院长李炳浩党羽判处极刑，”朝鲜国家保卫省(State Security)、人民保安省(Ministry of People’s Security)和中央检察院(Central Public Prosecutors Office)的联合声明说。声明称朴李二人的罪行是“特大国家恐怖罪”。
Ms. Park and Mr. Lee “can never make any appeal even though they meet a miserable dog’s death anytime, at any place and by whatever methods from this moment,” the statement said.
声明说，朴槿惠和李炳浩“即使被任何人在何时何地，通过任何方法遭遇凄惨无谓的送命，也不可上诉”。
There was no immediate response from Ms. Park, who has been incarcerated since she was forced out on corruption charges in March, or from the National Intelligence Service. But the South Korea spy agency has denied trying to assassinate Mr. Kim.
自3月因腐败指控被迫下台后一直遭关押的朴槿惠和国家情报院均未立即做出回应。但国家情报院已经否认试图暗杀金正恩。
North Korea said Ms. Park had endorsed an “operation to replace the supreme leadership of the North” since late 2015. It said the plot involved Mr. Kim’s assassination, which it said South Korean agents had planned to disguise as a “car or train accident.” But the plot was eventually abandoned after Ms. Park was impeached in a corruption scandal, North Korea said.
朝鲜称朴槿惠自2015年末开始支持“更替朝鲜最高首脑工作”。朝鲜说这个阴谋涉及刺杀金正恩，并称韩国特工计划把刺杀伪装成“车祸或火车事故”。朝鲜表示，在朴槿惠因腐败丑闻遭弹劾后，该阴谋最终被放弃。
The statement provided no further details of the supposed plot. But on Monday, the Japanese newspaper Asahi, quoting anonymous sources, reported that Ms. Park had approved a plan for the National Intelligence Service to overturn Mr. Kim’s government in 2015. The spy agency has called the report groundless.
声明没有提供这个所谓的阴谋的更多细节。但周一，日本报纸《朝日新闻》(Asahi)援引匿名信源报道，朴槿惠在2015年批准了国家情报院一个推翻金正恩政府的计划。国际情报院称该报道是无稽之谈。
Ms. Park’s truncated term in office was punctuated by a spike in tension with North Korea, which had once tried to assassinate her father when he was the dictator of South Korea nearly a half-century ago.
朴槿惠提前结束的执政任期内，与朝鲜的紧张关系不时升级。在近半个世纪前朴槿惠的父亲对韩国进行独裁统治时，朝鲜一度试图刺杀他。
Mr. Kim has accelerated the North’s nuclear weapons program with a torrent of bomb and ballistic missile tests, threatening South Korea and the United States with a “nuclear sword of justice.”
金正恩通过一连串的炸弹和弹道导弹试验加速了朝鲜的核计划，并用“核正义之剑”威胁韩国和美国。
Ms. Park was an advocate of tough sanctions against the North while it fulminated, calling her a “snake” and a “prostitute.”
朴槿惠主张对朝鲜实行强硬的制裁，朝鲜则强烈抗议，称其为“毒蛇”和“妓女”。
Mr. Kim, grandson of North Korea’s founder, Kim Il-sung, runs an autocracy especially sensitive to any hint of threat to its leader. North Korea is widely believed to have been responsible for the brazen hacking of Sony Pictures in 2014 as retaliation for “The Interview,” a fictional American film centered around a plot to assassinate Mr. Kim. Although North Korea is known to have tried to assassinate South Korean leaders at least twice, it is highly unusual for the North to claim to be a victim of a South Korean plot.
作为朝鲜开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)之孙，施行独裁统治的金正恩对受到的任何一丝威胁都特别敏感。外界普遍认为朝鲜应为2014年肆无忌惮地对索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)发动黑客袭击，以报复《刺杀金正恩》(The Interview)一事负责。《刺杀金正恩》是美国的一部虚构电影，以一个刺杀金正恩的阴谋为中心展开。尽管据知朝鲜至少两次试图刺杀韩国领导人，但朝鲜声称自己是韩国阴谋的受害者这种情况极为不寻常。
In 1968, North Korea sent commandos within striking distance of the residence of Ms. Park’s father, Park Chung-hee, before they were repelled in bloody shootouts.
1968年，朝鲜派突击队员进入朴槿惠的父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)官邸的攻击距离内，但后来，他们在血腥的枪战中被击退。
In 1983, North Korean agents tried to assassinate the South Korean dictator at the time, Chun Doo-hwan, while he was visiting Burma, now Myanmar. Bomb explosions killed 21 people, including South Korean cabinet ministers, but Mr. Chun escaped unharmed.
1983年，朝鲜特工试图刺杀访问缅甸的韩国独裁统治者全斗焕(Chun Doo-Hwan)。炸弹爆炸导致12人受伤，包括多名韩国内阁部长，但全斗焕安然无恙地逃过一劫。
During Ms. Park’s term, South Korean news media reported that South Korean and United States special forces had been training to “decapitate” the North Korean government in the event of renewed conflict on the Korean Peninsula, where an armistice has kept peace since the Korean War, which lasted from 1950 to 1953.
韩国新闻媒体报道称，在朴槿惠任期内，韩国和美国的特种部队一直在进行训练，当朝鲜半岛再次爆发冲突时，“颠覆”朝鲜政府。自1950到1953年的朝鲜战争以来，休战协议维持着朝鲜半岛上的和平。
Neither Washington nor Seoul had formally acknowledged such training. Still, Mr. Kim was so fearful of assassination that he traveled in the early morning and used one of his deputies’ cars to elude surveillance, the National Intelligence Service told South Korean lawmakers on June 15. He also strengthened his personal security force, the agency said.
华盛顿和首尔均未正式承认存在这样的训练。但国家情报院6月15日告诉韩国立法者，金正恩非常担心刺杀，因此一大早就会出门，并且乘坐副手的车，以躲避监控。国家情报院称，金正恩还加强了自己的私人安保力量。
North Korea’s relationship with South Korea and the United States has been particularly tense in recent months, as the North has defied demands to halt its testing of ballistic missiles, and may be preparing another nuclear test.
最近几个月，朝鲜与韩国和美国的关系特别紧张。朝鲜对停止弹道导弹试验的要求置若罔闻，并且可能正在准备下一场核试验。
President Trump has warned of “a major, major conflict with North Korea,” sending what he called an “armada” of American warships to Korean waters, but he has also said he could meet with Mr. Kim under the right circumstances.
特朗普总统警告可能会“和朝鲜发生严重的、严重的冲突”，并派他所说的“一批”美国军舰进入朝鲜水域，但他也表示自己可以在合适的情况下和金正恩见面。
Mr. Trump is scheduled to meet with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea in Washington on Thursday and Friday. Mr. Moon, who won the May 9 election held after Ms. Park’s impeachment, has been critical of Ms. Park’s North Korea policy and has called for dialogue with the country.
特朗普定于周四和周五两天在华盛顿会见韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)。5月9日，文在寅在朴槿惠被弹劾后举行的选举中胜出。他对朴槿惠的朝鲜政策持批评态度，呼吁同朝鲜展开对话。
For months after Mr. Trump took office, North Korea was uncharacteristically reticent about assailing him, possibly because of his administration’s secret diplomatic attempts to ease tensions and secure the release of Americans held in the North.
在特朗普上台后的数月里，朝鲜非同寻常地没有攻击他，这可能是因为他领导的联邦政府秘密开展外交行动，试图缓和紧张关系并让被朝鲜关押的美国人获释。
But the mood in Washington soured after the death on June 19 of one of the detained Americans, Otto F. Warmbier, a college student who was released in a coma after 17 months of captivity. President Trump criticized the North’s “brutality.”
但被关押的美国人之一奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)6月19日死亡后，华盛顿怒火中烧。瓦姆比尔是一名大学生，被关押17个月后在昏迷中获释。特朗普总统指责朝鲜的“残忍”。
Since then, North Korea’s state-run news media has taken a more hostile tone toward Mr. Trump, calling him a “war maniac” and a “lunatic.” In a commentary on Tuesday, the official Korean Central News Agency likened Mr. Trump’s “America First” policy to “Nazism in the 21st century” and compared him to Hitler.
之后，朝鲜官方新闻媒体对特朗普采取了更加不友好的口吻，称他是“战争狂人”和“精神病人”。在周二的一篇评论文章中，官方的朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)把特朗普的“美国优先”政策比作“21世纪的纳粹主义”，并把他本人比作希特勒。