NEW YORK — North Korea is a threat that keeps on threatening. Satellite imagery recently revealed increased activity at the Punggye-ri nuclear site. The government in Pyongyang appears to have completed preliminary steps for a fourth nuclear test. Its ballistic missile program continues to advance. And the man with his finger on the button is the 31-year-old Kim Jong-un, who seems even more erratic than his notorious predecessors.
纽约——朝鲜是一个不间断的威胁。通过近期的卫星图像得知，丰溪里(Punggye-ri)核基地的活动在增加。平壤政府似乎已经完成了第四次核试验的准备工作。其弹道导弹项目也在继续发展。这次把手指放在按钮上的是31岁的金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，他似乎比他臭名昭著的前任更加难以预料。
So far, the United States, South Korea, Japan and China — the main countries with a stake in stability on the Korean Peninsula — have responded by adopting a policy of soft containment. Even as they have tried to curb Pyongyang’s excesses, they have allowed the regime to stay in place: They fear that its demise would be too destabilizing and that the peninsula’s reunification would mean crippling economic and social costs for South Korea.
目前，美国、韩国、日本和中国——与朝鲜半岛的稳定有利害关系的主要国家——通过采取软性制约的政策做了回应。它们试图遏制平壤的过分举动，但仍然允许朝鲜政府继续存在：它们担心朝鲜政府的灭亡将带来动荡，而朝鲜半岛的统一会使韩国在经济和社会方面付出代价。
But this is a blinkered view, because the long-term benefits of North Korea’s collapse, both strategic and economic, far outweigh the short-term costs.
但这是个狭隘的看法，因为朝鲜政府的灭亡在战略和经济方面带来的长期利益，将远远超过短期需要付出的代价。
The fall of the Kim government would generate significant problems at first, most immediately how to secure North Korea’s nuclear weapons, demobilize its vast army, provide basic public services to its people and manage refugee flows. But the advantages would emerge very soon, especially in terms of security.
金正恩政府的倒台首先会带来巨大的问题，首当其冲的就是如何安全处理朝鲜的核武器、遣散其庞大的军队、为朝鲜人民提供基本公共服务，以及管理难民流动。但好处马上就会出现，尤其是安全方面。
Some 25 million North Koreans, including 80,000 to 120,000 prisoners in slave-labor camps, would be released from the grip of one of the world’s most repressive regimes. The states that Pyongyang threatens would also be relieved: South Korea, which today is at risk of commando or conventional military operations from the North; Japan, which is within range of missile strikes; the United States, which worries that it will get dragged into a conventional war on the peninsula, or that Pyongyang may sell off nuclear material.
大约2500万朝鲜人——其中包括8万到12万在劳改营作苦力的囚犯——将从世界上最独裁的一个政府手中获释。受到朝鲜威胁的国家也将松一口气：韩国目前正受到朝鲜突击队或常规军事行动的威胁，日本处在导弹袭击的射程以内，美国则担心它将被卷入朝鲜半岛的常规战争，或者平壤可能会廉价出清其核材料。
Even China, a putative ally of the Kim regime, would benefit from its fall: Beijing would no longer have to supply the North with fuel, food and other goods.
甚至连被视作金氏政府盟友的中国，都将从朝鲜政府的倒台中获益：中国不必再给朝鲜提供燃料、食物及其他货物。
Even more significant would be the economic opportunities for South Korea. The total bill for rebuilding North Korea and integrating it with the South could reach $2 trillion — more even than the cost of Germany’s reunification after the Cold War, estimated at $1.9 trillion. But some of that expense would be offset by immediate savings on South Korea’s defense budget, some $32 billion this year alone.
而韩国获得的经济机遇还要更大。重建朝鲜，并将其与韩国融合的费用可能会高达2万亿美元（约合12万亿元人民币）——甚至比德国冷战后统一的花费还多，后者估计在1.9万亿左右。但是，韩国国防预算将会立即减少，这能够冲抵一部分支出。韩国今年一年的国防预算就在320亿美元左右。
Reunification would bring a demographic jolt. South Korea’s population is aging fast, thanks to an average life expectancy of 81 years and a birth rate of only 1.2 children per woman. If current trends continue, the number of South Koreans aged between 15 and 64 will start to decline in 2017, and by 2030, so will the population overall.
统一将造成人口构成的剧变。由于韩国人的平均寿命为81岁，而每名女性平均只生育1.2个孩子，韩国人口的老龄化速度很快。如果目前的趋势持续下去，年龄在15到64岁之间的韩国人将从2017年开始减少，到2030年，人口总数也会开始降低。
The population of North Korea is younger and more fertile. The median age in the North is 33.4 years, compared with 40.2 years in the South. With unification, North Korea would bring more than 17 million potential workers to the 36 million in the South.
朝鲜人口的年龄偏低，生育能力更强。朝鲜的年龄中位数为33.4岁，而韩国的年龄中位数为40.2岁。如果实现统一，朝鲜将给韩国带来逾1700万的潜在劳动力，韩国现有3600万劳动力。
There would be other economic gains, too. South Korea currently imports nearly all of its energy and mineral needs. North Korea has vast deposits of coal, uranium, magnesite and rare-earth metals — together reportedly valued at $6 trillion — which it cannot currently exploit. Technology from the South could unlock these resources, boosting the economy of the entire peninsula.
还会有其他经济效益。目前，韩国几乎全靠进口满足能源及矿物需求。朝鲜的煤、铀、菱镁矿及稀土金属的储量丰富，据称，总储量价值6万亿美元，但朝鲜目前无法进行开采。韩国的技术可以发掘这些资源，促进整个朝鲜半岛的经济发展。
Over time, a unified Korea could emerge as a regional consumer and industrial powerhouse — much like Germany, which today is the strongest economy in Europe despite having had to manage the costs and upheaval of merging West and East a quarter century ago. Goldman Sachs predicted in 2009 that if the Korean Peninsula were reunified, within 30 to 40 years it could overtake France, Germany and even Japan in terms of G.D.P., and become “the Germany of Asia.”
长此以往，一个统一的朝鲜半岛可能会成为像德国一样的区域性消费及工业大国，德国目前是欧洲最强大的经济体，尽管该国需要应对25年前西德、东德统一带来的代价与剧变。高盛(Goldman Sachs)在2009年曾预测称，如果朝鲜半岛重新统一，那它的GDP会在30到40年的时间里赶超法国、德国，甚至日本，成为“亚洲的德国”。
Considering all these benefits, the United States and its allies must revise their approach to North Korea. Rather than continue to prop up a government they worry might topple over on its own, they should pursue a tougher version of containment, knowing that that may accelerate the collapse of the Kim regime.
考虑到这些益处，美国及其盟友必须改变对朝政策。它们应该采取更加强硬的遏制举措，有意地去加快金氏政权的垮台。
This harder policy would entail trying to cut off all the regime’s illicit sources of revenues, including drug smuggling, currency counterfeiting and exports of military equipment, while expanding sanctions to freeze all of Pyongyang’s overseas bank accounts. The House Foreign Affairs Committee approved legislation along these lines on May 29; that proposal deserves to become law.
这种更严厉的政策需要去设法切断金氏政权的所有非法收入来源，包括毒品走私、伪造货币，以及军事装备出口，还要扩大制裁规模，冻结平壤的所有海外银行账户。5月29日，众议院外交事务委员会(House Foreign Affairs Committee)根据这些原则，批准了相关提案；这一提案理应成为法律。
All this may seem like a hard sell with the other states that are strategically invested in the region, especially China. But Washington could give assurances to Beijing that following unification, no American troops would be stationed north of the current demilitarized zone — or anywhere on the peninsula, if that’s what it takes to win China’s support. Nationalistic South Koreans, once relieved of the threat from the North, might insist on this anyway.
对那些在该地区进行了战略投资的国家，尤其是中国来说，要让它们接受这个方案似乎有困难。但华盛顿方面可以向中国保证，朝韩统一后美国不会在现有非军事区以北的地区——或者朝鲜半岛的任何地方驻军，以此获得中国的支持。其实一旦来自北方的威胁解除，韩国的民族主义者自己就会反对驻军。
The fall of the Kim government may be an unnerving prospect, but it is a necessary step toward the reunification of the Korean Peninsula, a very worthy goal. Thus the United States, South Korea, Japan and China must abandon their soft-containment policy, which has artificially prolonged the regime’s existence. They should not be careful what they wish for.
金氏政权垮台的前景可能会令人感到不安，但这是实现朝鲜半岛重新统一的必经过程，重新统一是一个值得努力的目标。因此，美国、韩国、日本和中国必须摒弃“软遏制”政策，这些政策人为地延长了金氏政权的寿命。对于心中所愿，他们不应该太过谨慎。