SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Tuesday that it had conducted the ground test of a new long-range rocket engine used to put a satellite into orbit, an effort long considered by Washington and the United Nations Security Council to be a cover for developing an intercontinental ballistic missile.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周二称其对一种用于把卫星送入轨道的新型远程火箭发动机进行了地面测试，这类举动一直被华盛顿和联合国安理会视为研制洲际弹道导弹的幌子。
The announcement followed the North’s nuclear test on Sept. 9. The United States and its allies are calling for the Security Council to adopt a new resolution to enforce tougher sanctions to punish the North for the latest nuclear test, its fifth since 2006.
该消息宣布前，朝鲜在9月9日进行了核试验。美国及其盟友正呼吁安理会通过一项决议，对朝鲜施以更严厉的制裁，作为对它自2006年以来进行的最新一次，也就是第五次核试验的惩罚。
In the past, such sanctions have usually prompted the North to respond with provocations, like another nuclear test or a rocket launch to place a satellite into orbit.
在以往，这类制裁常常促使朝鲜回以挑衅之举，比如进行另一次核试验，或者发射一枚火箭把卫星送入轨道。
North Korea last launched a carrier rocket in February, a month after its fourth nuclear test, to place its Kwangmyongsong, or Shining Star, satellite into orbit. (The country also launched a rudimentary satellite in 2012.)
朝鲜最近一次发射运载火箭是在今年2月，即进行第四次核试验一个月之后，一颗名为“光明星”(Kwangmyongsong)的卫星被送入了轨道。（该国还在2012年发射了一颗简易卫星。）
Analysts have said the North may launch another satellite in time for the Oct. 10 anniversary of the ruling Workers’ Party, using that as a signal to the outside world that it was pushing ahead with its long-range missile program despite sanctions. At home, such a launch is used to boost Kim Jong-un’s leadership.
分析人士称，朝鲜可能很快就会发射另一颗卫星，为执政的劳动党10月10日的建党纪念日献礼，从而外界让知道，尽管遭受了制裁，但它仍在推进远程导弹计划。在国内，通过此举可以巩固金正恩的领导地位。
On Tuesday, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said Mr. Kim visited the Sohae Space Center, the North’s main satellite launch site near its northwestern border with China, to observe the engine test. He ordered officials there to finish preparations for another satellite launch “as soon as possible” to glorify the North Korean people who he said “have fastened their belts owing to the enemies’ harsh sanctions,” the agency said.
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)周二报道，金正恩曾亲临西海太空中心(Sohae Space Center)观看发动机试验。该中心是朝鲜的主要卫星发射基地，靠近其西北部的中朝边境线。朝中社称，他命令那里的官员“抓紧”完成发射另一颗卫星的准备工作，以便让他所说的“因敌人卑鄙的制裁打压活动而勒紧腰带”的朝鲜人民感到荣耀。
The news agency did not say when the single-engine test took place.
朝中社没有提及此次单发动机测试是在何时进行的。
“The test was aimed to make a final confirmation of the feature of combustion chamber, operation accuracy of valves and control systems and structural reliability of the engine during 200 second-long working time,” it said, calling the test a success. It said the successful test of the engine will enable the country to launch “various kinds of satellites including earth observation satellite at a world level.”
“这次大功率发动机地上点火试验的工作时间为200秒，目的在于最终确证发动机燃烧室的燃烧特点、各种阀和操纵系统的工作正确性和结构可靠性，”朝中社说此次测试很成功。它说，对发动机的成功测试将让朝鲜具备“在世界一流水平上发射对地观测卫星等各种卫星的运载能力。”
After the North’s latest nuclear test and a series of ballistic missile tests in recent months, its claim that it has acquired the ability to mount short- and midrange missiles with nuclear warheads has been taken more seriously by United States and South Korean officials. But they said the country was still years from being able to build a nuclear tipped long-range missile, although it habitually threatens to attack the mainland United States with nuclear missiles.
朝鲜称其已经具备发射可运载核弹头的短程及中程导弹的能力。在它进行最新一次核实验以及最近几个月的一系列弹道导弹测试以后，美国及韩国官员对这种说法更加重视了。但他们表示，朝鲜还要花多年时间才能造出可运载核弹头的远程导弹，尽管它常常习惯性地威胁说，要以核导弹袭击美国大陆。
After the satellite launch in February, South Korean defense officials said that the Unha rocket used in the launch, if successfully reconfigured as a missile, could fly more than 7,400 miles with a warhead of 1,100 to 1,300 pounds — far enough to reach the West Coast of the United States.
朝鲜于今年2月发射卫星后，韩国国防部官员称，发射过程中使用的“银河”(Unha)火箭如果被成功改造为导弹，便可搭载重量为1100磅至1200磅的弹头飞行逾7400英里，足以抵达美国西海岸。
Mr. Kim has called for his country to develop and launch “a variety of more working satellites” using “carrier rockets of bigger capacity.” The country has also renovated and expanded the gantry tower and other facilities at the launch site to accommodate more powerful rockets.
金正恩已经号召朝鲜方面研制并发射“各种更加实用的卫星”以及“更具威力的运载火箭”。朝鲜还对发射基地的发射架等设施进行了改扩建，以便容纳更具威力的火箭。
In an analysis posted on the website 38 North, Joseph S. Bermudez Jr. and Jack Liu said that the engine test represented an “anticipated and significant step in the continued development of larger, more advanced space launch vehicles” by the North.
在北纬38度(38 North)网站上的一篇分析性文章中，小约瑟夫·S·贝穆德斯(Joseph S. Bermudez Jr)和杰克·刘(Jack Liu)说，此次发动机测试代表着朝鲜“在继续研制更大、更先进的太空运载火箭的道路上，迈出了期盼已久的重要一步”。
In January, while announcing sanctions imposed on 11 individuals and entities involved in Iran’s ballistic missile program, the United States Treasury included three Iranian officials it said have worked with North Korea on its missile and space programs, including the development of “an 80-ton rocket booster.”
今年1月，美国财政部(United States Treasury)曾宣布对11个卷入伊朗弹道导弹计划的个人和企业实施制裁，它说其中三名伊朗官员曾与朝鲜方面就朝鲜的导弹及太空计划展开合作，包括研制“一种80吨级火箭助推器”。