SEOUL, South Korea — The remains of thousands of American soldiers killed in North Korea during the Korean War are in danger of getting lost after being moved from their burial sites because of various construction work, the North said on Monday.
韩国首尔——朝鲜方面周一表示，随着各种建设项目的推进，数以千计死于朝鲜战争的美国士兵的遗骸面临着从埋藏地迁出后不知所踪的危险。
The troops’ remains were neglected and “carried away en masse due to construction projects of hydropower stations, land rezoning and other gigantic nature-remaking projects, flood damage, etc.,” a spokesman of the North Korean military said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.
据朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，朝鲜军方发言人在一份声明中表示：美军遗骸无人照管；由于朝方正推进“水电站项目建设、土地分区调整及其他大型自然改造工程，再加上洪水等因素的影响，骸骨大量遗失”。
The 1950-53 Korean War, during which the United States fought for South Korea, ended not in a peace treaty but in a truce, leaving the peninsula technically at war. Still, the United States and North Korea conducted 33 joint search and recovery operations at some of the old battle sites in the reclusive North from 1996 to 2005, when Washington withdrew its personnel, citing security concerns amid rising tensions over the North’s nuclear weapons program.
在1950年至1953年的朝鲜战争中，美国是为韩国而战。给这场战争画上句号的并非和平条约，而是一纸休战协定，因此从理论上来说，朝鲜半岛还处于战争状态。不过，从1996年到2005年，在闭塞的朝鲜境内，美国和朝鲜在从前的一些战斗遗址上实施了33次联合发掘工作。2005年，华盛顿以朝鲜的核武器计划引发安全关切为由撤离了工作人员。
From those operations, the United States recovered remains believed to belong to 229 American soldiers missing in action, 107 of them thus far accounted for through DNA tests. Separately, from 1990 to 1994, North Korea also unilaterally handed over 208 boxes of remains, some of them commingled, saying that they contained the remains of as many as 400 American soldiers. So far, 104 soldiers have been identified from the remains.
通过上述发掘工作，美国找到了229具遗骸，据信属于在执行任务过程中失踪的美国士兵。迄今为止，其中107具已经通过DNA测试得到确认。此外，从1990年到1994年，朝鲜方面另外还移交了208箱遗骸——某些人的骸骨混在了一起——并表示，箱子里装着最多可达400名美军士兵的骸骨。截至目前，已有104名士兵的骸骨身份得到了确认。
Joint operations to recover the remains of the American soldiers killed and left behind in the North had provided North Korea with millions of dollars in badly needed cash; the Pentagon paid the North for providing workers. But more important, North Korea over the years has used the remains of an estimated 7,800 American service members still missing in the North to remind Washington that it needed to negotiate with Pyongyang.
通过与美国联合发掘遗留在朝鲜境内的阵亡美军骸骨，朝鲜得到了它亟需的数百万美元现金：美国国防部出钱，朝鲜出人。但更重要的是，朝鲜这些年来一直用仍然散落在本国境内的约7800具美军遗骸来提醒华盛顿，它需要和平壤交涉。
The North’s statement on Monday appeared to be aimed at pressuring the United States to open dialogues. It said the remains of missing soldiers “now look like no better than stones” as their burial sites gave way to land development.
朝鲜周一发表声明的用意似乎是向美国施压，敦促其开启对话。声明称，失踪士兵的遗骸“目前看起来跟石头差不多”，因为朝方要对其埋藏地进行土地开发。
“The situation clearly proves” that Washington’s vow to bring its missing service members home was “nothing but a lie and hypocrisy,” the North Korean spokesman said, blaming the United States’ “hostile policy” for the suspension of recovery efforts.
朝鲜的发言人在谴责美国实行“敌对政策”、停止发掘工作时表示，“这种情况清楚地表明”，华盛顿许下的把失踪美军带回家的承诺“只不过是虚伪的谎言”。