SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea threatened on Sunday to carry out a “new form” of nuclear test, a year after its third nuclear test raised military tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula and prompted the United Nations to tighten sanctions against the North.
韩国首尔——一年之前，朝鲜进行了第三次核试验，由此激化了朝韩两国之间的军事紧张态势，还促使联合国(United Nations)加大了对朝鲜的制裁力度。周日，朝鲜又威胁要开展“新型”核试验。
The North’s Foreign Ministry did not clarify what it meant by a “new form” in its statement, carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. But Washington and its allies have long suspected the country of trying to make nuclear devices small and sophisticated enough to be delivered by intercontinental ballistic missiles it was also developing.
朝鲜官方的朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)刊发了朝鲜外务省的声明，但声明并未说明”新型“的含义。但是，美国政府及其盟友早就怀疑朝鲜在尝试制造一些核装置，这些装置体积小，构造精密，能够通过洲际弹道导弹发射，后者也是朝鲜正在研制的东西。
Responding to the North’s announcement, Cho Tai-young, the spokesman for the South Korean Foreign Ministry, said in a statement that “North Korea should bear in mind that if it ignores the stern demand from the neighboring countries and the international community and carries out a nuclear test, it will have to pay a price for it.”
针对朝方的说法，韩国外交部发言人赵泰永(Cho Tai-young)在声明中回应称，“朝鲜应该记住，如果它无视邻国及国际社会的坚决要求，坚持进行核试验，那就必须为此付出代价。”
The United Nations Security Council warned the North last week that it could face more censure because of its missile tests in the past weeks that flouted Security Council resolutions banning North Korea from testing ballistic missile technology.
上周，联合国安理会警告朝鲜，它可能会因为过去几周的导弹测试而面临更严厉的惩罚，因为这种行为违背了安理会禁止朝鲜测试弹道导弹技术的决议。
The most recent test took place on Wednesday, when North Korea test-fired two Rodong midrange ballistic missiles. The projectiles flew 403 miles from mobile launching pads on the west coast and landed in the sea between North Korea and Japan, South Korean officials said.
朝鲜的最近一次测试发生在在周三，当时朝鲜试射了两枚“劳动”(Rodong)中程弹道导弹。韩国官员称，试射的导弹从位于西海岸的移动发射台发射升空，飞行了403英里（约合649公里），随后落入了朝鲜与日本之间的海域。
North Korea “would not rule out a new form of nuclear test for bolstering up its nuclear deterrence,” the North Korean statement on Sunday said, and it accused the United States of “acting rashly” at the Security Council.
朝鲜在周日的声明中称，朝鲜“不排除进行旨在增强核威慑力的新型核试验的可能性”。声明还指责美国在安理会“举动轻率”。
South Korea and international analysts have recently said that satellite imagery showed continuing activities at the North’s nuclear and rocket test sites, but they reported no signs that a test was imminent. The Defense Ministry of South Korea said that a new nuclear test by North Korea was a “political” rather than technical decision, with its engineers ready to conduct one on relatively short notice from its leader, Kim Jong-un.
韩国和国际分析人士近日表示，卫星图像显示，朝鲜的核设施与火箭测试基地仍有活动迹象。不过，他们并未报称发现了朝鲜即将进行测试的迹象。韩国国防部称，朝鲜的新型核试验只是一个“政治”决定，而不是技术决定，它并不意味着，只要朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)一声令下，朝鲜工程师就能在相对较短的时间内展开核试验。
North Korea is also running a uranium enrichment program, first unveiled in 2010, that officials and analysts in the region fear will provide the country with a steady supply of fuel for nuclear bombs. After the North’s last underground nuclear test in February last year, analysts could not determine whether the North used highly enriched uranium for fuel. The country’s two previous tests in 2006 and 2009 were believed to have used some of its small stockpile of plutonium.
朝鲜还在进行一个铀浓缩项目；该项目于2010年为世人所知。该地区的官员和分析人士担心，铀浓缩项目将使朝鲜获得稳定的核弹燃料供应。朝鲜于去年2月进行了最近一次地下核试验，而分析人士无法判定朝鲜是否在试验中使用了高浓缩铀燃料。据信，在2006年和2009年的核试验当中，朝鲜动用了该国少量钚储备中的一部分。
In a paper published on the website 38 North this month, Jeffrey Lewis, a nuclear expert at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, cited a “disquieting possibility”: that recent excavation activities at the Punggye-ri nuclear test site in northeast North Korea might represent an effort to build a network of tunnels to conduct multiple tests or carry out tests on a much more regular basis using a steady supply of highly enriched uranium.
本月，蒙特雷国际研究院(Monterey Institute of International Studies)詹姆斯·马丁防扩散研究中心(James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies)的核专家杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)在38 North网站发表文章，提到了“一个令人不安的可能性”：位于朝鲜东北部的丰溪里核试验场最近出现了挖掘活动，可能说明朝鲜正在建造隧道网，目的是进行多项试验，或者利用稳定的高浓缩铀供应更加经常地开展试验。
“North Korea may soon have access to regular amounts of fissile material if it doesn’t already,” Mr. Lewis wrote, referring to the North’s uranium program. “And, although China may have pressured North Korea to refrain from nuclear tests in past years, its influence on Pyongyang seems to have waned.”
“朝鲜有可能很快就能定期获得裂变原料，还有可能已经具备了这种能力，”刘易斯写道，指的是朝鲜的铀浓缩项目。“此外，虽然中国可能曾在过去几年里迫使朝鲜停止核试验，但它对平壤方面的影响力似乎有所减弱。”
North Korea said its recent missile tests were a justified reaction to the joint military exercises being carried out by South Korea and the United States, which it said raised the danger of war.
朝鲜称，该国最近的导弹试验是对美韩联合军演的合理回应。按照朝鲜的说法，美韩军演带来了战争风险。
North Korea has claimed to have developed “diversified” and “miniaturized” nuclear devices, but Western experts remain unsure about how close it has come to mastering the technology needed to mount a nuclear warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile.
朝鲜曾宣称，该国已经研制出了“多样化”、“微型化”的核装置，但西方专家仍不确定，朝鲜在多大程度上掌握了将核弹头装上洲际弹道导弹所需的技术。