SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s intelligence chief said Monday that Jang Song-thaek, the uncle of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, who was executed this month, apparently had not plotted a coup as Pyongyang had said, but had fallen victim to intrigue within the country’s elite over lucrative business deals, according to lawmakers in Seoul.
韩国首尔——韩国议员称，韩国情报部门负责人周一表示，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)似乎并未策划平壤方面所说的政变密谋，而是沦为了该国权贵围绕利润丰厚的商业交易而起的阴谋的受害者。张成泽于本月被处决。
Mr. Jang, 67, who was once believed to be the second most powerful man in North Korea, was executed on Dec. 12 on charges of plotting to overthrow his nephew’s government, four days after he was hauled out of a meeting of the ruling Workers’ Party at which he was stripped of all titles. The highly unusual public purge and execution of a member of the North’s ruling family has set off widespread speculation about the possibility of a power struggle within the secretive regime.
67岁的张成泽曾被认为是朝鲜的二号人物。他先是在执政党劳动党(Workers' Party)的一次会议上被解除所有职务，并被拖出会场。四天后的12月12日，张成泽被处决，罪名是密谋推翻自己侄子领导的政府。对朝鲜统治家族成员的这次极不寻常的公开清洗和处决引发了人们的广泛猜测，即这个诡秘政权内部可能爆发了一场权力斗争。
During a closed-door meeting Monday of the South Korean National Assembly’s intelligence committee, Nam Jae-joon, director of the National Intelligence Service, disputed Pyongyang’s assertion that Mr. Jang had tried to usurp his nephew’s power. Rather, he said, Mr. Jang and his associates had provoked the enmity of rivals within the North’s elite by dominating lucrative business deals, such as the sale of North Korean coal to China.
在韩国国民大会(South Korean National Assembly)情报委员会周一举行的一次闭门会议上，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)院长南在俊(Nam Jae-joon)反驳了平壤称张成泽试图篡夺其侄子权力的说法。他表示，实际情况是张成泽及其亲信控制了利润丰厚的商业交易，比如朝鲜对华售煤业务，由此激起了朝鲜权贵阶层中的对手的敌意。
“There had been friction building up among the agencies of power in North Korea over privileges and over the abuse of power by Jang Song-thaek and his associates,” Mr. Nam was quoted as saying.
南在俊说，“围绕张成泽及其亲信的特权和滥用职权行为，朝鲜权力机构之间的摩擦日渐增多。”
Mr. Nam’s comments were relayed to the news media by Jeong Cheong-rae and Cho Won-jin, two lawmakers designated as spokesmen for the parliamentary committee. It was through Mr. Jeong and Mr. Cho that the National Intelligence Service on Dec. 3 released the news of Mr. Jang’s purge.
南在俊的这番评论是由议员郑清来(Jeong Cheong-rae)和赵元真（Cho Won-jin，音译）转达给新闻媒体的，这两名议员被指定为前述议会委员会的发言人。12月3日，国家情报院正是通过这两名发言人公布了有关张成泽被清洗的新闻。
Mr. Nam, according to the lawmakers, said that Mr. Jang’s rivals had gone to Kim Jong-un with accusations of corruption on the part of Mr. Jang and his circle. When Mr. Jang’s associates, perhaps too confident of Mr. Jang’s influence with Mr. Kim, resisted the top North Korean leader’s order to give up some of their business arrangements, Mr. Kim saw it as a challenge to his authority, according to Mr. Nam.
这两名议员说，南在俊表示，张成泽的对手向金正恩指控，张成泽及其党羽存在腐败问题。据南在俊说，也许是过于相信张成泽对金正恩的影响力，张成泽的亲信拒绝执行朝鲜最高领导人要求其放弃部分商业安排的命令，而金正恩认为这是对他的权威的挑战。
“It appears that there is no big problem with Kim Jong-un’s grip on power, because the purge of Jang Song-thaek was not the result of a power struggle,” Mr. Nam was quoted as saying.
“金正恩对权力的控制似乎没有出现什么大问题，因为清洗张成泽并不是权力斗争的结果，”发言人援引南在俊的话说。
Still, Mr. Nam said, the fact that such behind-the-scenes squabbling had spun out of control, to the point that Mr. Kim ordered his own uncle’s execution, raises questions about the regime’s internal unity. “The fissure within the regime could accelerate if it further loses popular support,” the lawmakers quoted Mr. Nam as saying.
然而，南在俊也表示，这种幕后争吵居然失去了控制，甚至导致金正恩下令处决自己的姑父，这一事实让外界对该政权的内部团结产生了怀疑。“如果进一步失去民众的支持，朝鲜政权内部的裂痕就会加剧，”两名发言人援引南在俊的话说。
Mr. Nam did not reveal the sources of his agency’s intelligence, but he said his spies had learned of Mr. Jang’s detention as early as mid-November.
南在俊没有透露他所在机构的消息来源，但他说，他的密探早在10月中旬就获悉了张成泽被拘押的事情。
Mr. Jang was the husband of Kim Kyong-hui, the only sister of Mr. Kim’s late father, the longtime North Korean leader Kim Jong-il. He appeared to have rapidly expanded his influence since Kim Jong-il suffered a stroke in 2008, and he and his wife were widely seen as caretakers for the family regime as it groomed Kim Jong-un as heir.
张成泽是金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hui)的丈夫，金敬姬是金正恩已故的父亲、曾长期担任朝鲜领导人的金正日(Kim Jong-il)唯一的妹妹。金正日在2008年中风后，张成泽似乎迅速扩张了自己的影响力，在培养金正恩接班的阶段，他和妻子被广泛地视为金家政权的守护者。
Mr. Jang’s rising profile coincided with the purges of top generals and the curtailing of the military’s lucrative rights to trade in coal, iron ore and other natural resources, exports of which to China have become the biggest components of North Korean trade with the outside world in recent years.
张成泽日益上升的影响力与朝鲜清洗高层将领，剥夺军方对利润丰厚的煤炭、铁矿石等自然资源的交易权的时间重合。近年来，对华出口前述资源一直是朝鲜对外贸易中份额最大的部分。
The official verdict against Mr. Jang on Dec. 12 hinted at the business deals in which Mr. Jang and his associates were involved, saying that he had “instructed his stooges to sell coal and other precious underground resources at random.”
在12月12日对张成泽做出的官方判决中，朝鲜提及了张成泽及其亲信涉及的商业交易，称他“让亲信随便卖掉煤炭等宝贵的地下资源”。
Mr. Nam told the committee Monday that Mr. Kim’s aunt had retained her position in the North Korean hierarchy, while the purge of Mr. Jang’s other associates continued. But he denied news reports in South Korea and Japan that some of Mr. Jang’s associates were seeking political asylum in Seoul and Beijing after fleeing the purge at home.
周一，南在俊对情报委员会说，对张成泽其他亲信的清洗仍在继续，但金正恩的姑姑在朝鲜政坛的位置依然维持不变。不过，他否认了韩国和日本的一些新闻报道，这些报道说，张成泽的一些亲信已逃脱国内的清洗，正在首尔和北京寻求政治避难。
Mr. Nam pointed to Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, the top political officer in the North Korean People’s Army, and Kim Won-hong, the head of the North’s secret police and its intelligence chief, as the regime’s new rising figures since Mr. Jang’s execution, according to the two lawmakers.
据两名议员所言，南在俊指出，张成泽被处决之后，朝鲜人民军最高政治官员次帅崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)和秘密警察负责人兼情报主管金元宏(Kim Won-hong)成了朝鲜政坛的新贵。
Last Friday, Ahn Hong-joon, the chairman of the South Korean parliamentary committee in charge of diplomatic and North Korea-related issues, said that Kim Jong-un was a figurehead, “a symbolic godlike figure,” and that Mr. Choe pulled the strings behind the scenes, including the masterminding of Mr. Jang’s downfall.
上周五，安鸿俊(Ahn Hong-joon)表示，金正恩只是一个有名无实的领袖，“一个象征性的拟神人物”，崔龙海在幕后实施操纵，张成泽的倒台就出于他的谋划。安鸿俊是韩国国会中掌管外交和对朝事务的委员会的主席。
Mr. Jang had earlier engineered the purge of Vice Marshal Ri Yong-ho in July last year to curtail the military’s power, Mr. Ahn said, without revealing the source of his information.
安鸿俊说，早些时候，为了遏制军方的权力，张成泽在去年7月策划了清洗次帅李英浩(Ri Yong-ho)的行动。安鸿俊没有透露自己的消息来源。
In a sign of Mr. Choe’s rising influence, the North’s main party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, carried a lengthy article on Friday lionizing Mr. Choe’s late father, Choe Hyon, as a fighter who had fearlessly defended the Kim family. Choe Hyon, who had been the North’s armed forces minister, was so loyal to the Kim regime that he never stepped on Kim Jong-il’s shadow, the newspaper said.
崔龙海崛起的一个迹象是，朝鲜主要的党报《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)于上周五刊登了一篇长文，盛赞崔龙海已故的父亲崔贤(Choe Hyon)是无畏守护金氏家族的斗士。该报称，曾担任朝鲜人民武装力量部部长的崔贤对金家政权忠心耿耿，甚至从不踩踏金正日的影子。
Also Monday, the former basketball player Dennis Rodman left Pyongyang, where he had arrived Thursday to conduct tryouts for a North Korean basketball team. At the Beijing airport, reporters asked Mr. Rodman, who had visited the North before and says he considers Kim Jong-un a friend, whether he was disappointed not to have met with Mr. Kim on this trip. “Nope, I don’t worry about it,” Reuters quoted him as saying. “I will see him again.”
也是在本周一，前美国职业篮球联盟NBA)球员丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)离开了平壤。之前他于上周四抵达平壤，指导朝鲜篮球队进行训练。在北京的机场，记者问罗德曼，此行没有见到金正恩，他是否感到失望。路透社(Reuters)援引他的话报道称，“不失望，我不担心这个。我会再次和他见面的。”罗德曼以前也曾访问朝鲜，还说他把金正恩当朋友。
Mr. Rodman has said he hopes to bring other former N.B.A. players to Pyongyang for an exhibition game against the North Korean team on Jan. 8 to mark Mr. Kim’s birthday.
罗德曼已经表示，为了庆贺金正恩的生日，他希望能在明年1月8日带领其他一些前NBA球员前往平壤，和朝鲜篮球队举行一场表演赛。