WASHINGTON — North Korea released two Americans who had been accused of trying to subvert the secretive state, after the director of national intelligence for the United States, James R. Clapper Jr., flew to the country on a secret mission and departed on Saturday with the men aboard his aircraft.
华盛顿——朝鲜释放了被指企图颠覆这个神秘政权的两名美国人。此前，美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)肩负秘密使命前往该国。周六，他带着这两名男子一道乘飞机离开了朝鲜。
In a terse statement issued by Mr. Clapper’s office, the Americans — Kenneth Bae and Matthew Todd Miller — were described as “on their way home, accompanied by D.N.I. Clapper.” Officials said they were likely to land on the West Coast, where Mr. Bae and Mr. Miller both live, some time on Saturday night.
克拉珀办公室发布了一则简短声明，宣布这两名美国人——肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)和马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)——“与国家情报总监克拉珀一道，正在回国的路上”。官方表示，他们的飞机可能于周六夜里降落在西海岸。肯尼斯·裴和米勒的家均位于这一地区。
It was an unusual role for Mr. Clapper, the nation’s most senior intelligence official, whose job is to coordinate policy and operations among the nation’s 16 spy agencies. Gruff, blunt-speaking and seen by many in the Obama administration as a throwback to the Cold War, the retired general is an unlikely diplomat but, in the words of one American official, “perfect for the North Koreans.”
对于美国最高级别的情报官员克拉珀来说，这是一个不同寻常的使命。克拉珀的工作是协调美国16家情报机构的政策和行动。他作风粗犷、言语直率，被奥巴马政府的许多人视为带有冷战时期的遗风。这名退役上将或许并不是典型的外交官，但用一名美国官员话来说，他却是“对付朝鲜的完美人选”。
Mr. Bae, 46, had been held for two years after he was detained on charges of using a Christian evangelical organization, Youth with a Mission, to preach against the North Korean government and planning a “religious coup d’état.” After a brief trial, he was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on a farm, raising concerns about his fragile health.
肯尼斯·裴现年46岁，已被拘押了两年。他被指利用基督教福音派组织青年使命团(Youth with a Mission)从事不利于朝鲜政府的传教工作，策划“宗教政变”。在简短的审讯之后，他被判15年农场劳役。这一判决引发了外界对他不良身体状况的担忧。
Mr. Miller, 25, entered North Korea seven months ago and reportedly tore up his visa, and by some accounts sought asylum. He was charged with unruly behavior, and North Korean officials suspected he was trying to get inside one of the country’s feared prison camps, to write about it later.
米勒现年25岁，七个月前进入朝鲜。据称他当场撕毁了签证，还有一些说法指出他寻求了庇护。米勒被指控存在不法行为，而且朝鲜官员怀疑，他是想进入该国令人生畏的集中营，以便日后进行相关写作。
Together with the release last month of Jeffrey E. Fowle, who had been held for six months, the decision to let the two Americans go is the latest evidence that Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s unpredictable and untested young leader, is trying his first approaches to the Obama administration since taking power. Officials would not say whether Mr. Clapper traveled with a letter from President Obama — which would be a usual approach — but a senior administration official said he “was there to listen,” and to “reiterate our views.”
上个月，被朝鲜关押了六个月的杰弗里·E·福尔(Jeffrey E. Fowle)获释。加上朝鲜此次做出的释放其余两名美国人的决定，共同证明了该国难以捉摸、未经考验的年轻领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，正在进行掌权以来的针对奥巴马政府的首轮试探。官方拒绝透露克拉珀是否带去了奥巴马信函——这是常规做法——不过奥巴马政府的一名高级官员说，他“去那里是为了倾听”，以及“重申我们的立场”。
Mr. Obama said Saturday that “we’re very grateful for their safe return,” and praised Mr. Clapper for successfully completing what he called “a challenging mission.”
奥巴马周六表示，“我们非常庆幸他们能安全归来”，并且称赞克拉珀成功地完成了“一项富有挑战的任务”。
In fact, the specter of Mr. Clapper’s flying into the last stronghold of hard-line communist dictatorship may be the director’s best chance to revise a national image that was bruised when he was asked, in an open congressional hearing, whether intelligence officials collected data about ordinary Americans. “No sir,” he responded. “Not wittingly.”
实际上，飞赴共产主义强硬独裁统治的最后一座堡垒，或许是这位情报总监扭转受损的美国国家形象的最好机会。在此前的一次国会公开听证会上，当被问及情报人员是否在搜集有关普通美国民众的数据时，克拉珀回答，“没有。并未刻意搜集。”
Months later the revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, made clear that, in the most charitable interpretation, Mr. Clapper had issued a misleading statement to protect classified programs; he later conceded in a letter that “my response was clearly erroneous.”
数月后，国家安全局(National Security Agency)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)揭露的资料表明，即使以最善意的方式来解读，也可以说克拉珀为了保护秘密计划而做出了误解性陈述。他后来写信承认，“我的回答明显有误。”
The president leaves on Sunday for China, North Korea’s last protector. Presumably the subject of how to deal with Mr. Kim, about whom Chinese leaders have expressed suspicion and disdain, will come up in meetings with President Xi Jinping.
奥巴马将于周日启程前往中国。中国是朝鲜最后的庇护者，其领导人已经对金正恩表现出了怀疑和蔑视态度。如何与金正恩打交道这个话题，很可能会出现在奥巴马与中国国家主席习近平的会晤中。
After news of the Americans’ release, Mr. Bae’s sister, Terri Chung, said in a statement that she was “thrilled to imagine hugging my brother soon. He will not have to spend another day at a labor camp. He can now recover from this imprisonment and look forward to his wife, kids and rest of his life. Our Thanksgiving celebration this year will be one we will never forget.”
在传出两名美国人获释的消息后，肯尼斯·裴的妹妹特里·郑(Terri Chung)发表声明称，“想到很快就能拥抱哥哥了非常兴奋。他不用再在劳改营里多待一天了。他现在能从中恢复过来，期待与妻子和孩子的重聚，以及未来的生活。我们今年将度过一个永远难忘的感恩节。”