SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Thursday rejected South Korea’s proposal to hold reunions of elderly relatives separated by the Korean War six decades ago, but it kept the door open for a possible thaw in relations between the two Koreas.
韩国首尔——周四，朝鲜拒绝了韩国的提议，不肯为六十年前因朝鲜战争而离散的老人举行团聚活动，但依然让朝韩两国关系缓和的大门保持敞开。
On Monday, President Park Geun-hye had proposed resuming the reunions of separated families in time for the Lunar New Year’s Day on Jan. 31, a traditional time for family gatherings in Korea, saying it would be an important first step toward improving relations on the divided peninsula.
周一，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)提议在1月31日农历新年继续为离散家庭举办团聚活动，称这将是改善分裂的朝鲜半岛上两国关系的重要第一步。在朝鲜半岛，农历新年传统上是家人团聚的日子。
Ms. Park spent her early months as president taking a tough stance against the North, which conducted its third nuclear test two weeks before her inauguration in February. Last spring, she warned of decisive retaliation when North Korea threatened nuclear and missile attacks against the South and its ally, the United States, and withheld any significant aid shipments until North Korea promised to give up its nuclear weapons.
朴槿惠出任总统后的最初几个月对朝鲜姿态强硬。在她2月宣誓就职的两周前，朝鲜进行了第三次核试验。去年春天，朝鲜威胁要对韩国及其盟友美国发动核攻击和导弹攻击，朴槿惠则警告称会坚决进行报复，并中止了所有的大规模物资援助，直到朝鲜承诺放弃核武器为止。
In her proposal Monday, made at her first news conference as president, Ms. Park sweetened her overture with a promise to increase humanitarian aid for the impoverished North and to let South Korean civic groups help rebuild the North’s farm sector.
周一，朴槿惠举行了就任总统以来的第一次新闻发布会，其间发出了前述提议。在提议中，她先是温和地承诺将为贫穷的朝鲜提供更多的人道主义救助，并允许韩国民间团体协助重建朝鲜的农业。
But on Thursday, North Korea sent the South a message saying that the mood was not right for holding family reunions. It blamed South Korean news reports and analyst commentaries that included a scathing criticism of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and quoted senior South Korean government officials who worried about possible political instability in the North following the purge of Mr. Kim’s uncle, Jang Song-thaek. Mr. Jang was executed on Dec. 12 on charges of corruption and involvement in a plot to overthrow Mr. Kim’s government.
但周四，朝鲜向韩国发出讯息，称现在的氛围不适合举办离散家庭团聚活动。朝鲜指责韩国的一些新闻报道和分析人士的评论文章，这些文章含有对朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的尖锐批评，还引用了一些韩国政府高官的话。在金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)被清洗后，这些高官担心朝鲜政局可能会出现动荡。12月12日，张成泽因腐败和密谋推翻金正恩政府的指控被处决。
In rejecting the reunions, North Korea also bristled at the military exercises South Korea has conducted recently and plans to hold with the United States around early March. The North calls these drills rehearsals for invasion.
在拒绝举办家庭团聚活动时，朝鲜还对韩国最近举行的军事演习，以及3月初韩美联合军演的计划表示了不满。朝鲜称这些演习是在为侵略进行排练。
“How can we hold family reunions in comfort while bullets and artillery shells are flying in exercises for war?” the North’s official Korean Central News Agency quoted Pyongyang as saying.
“当战争演习中炮弹横飞时，我们怎么能安心举办家庭团聚活动呢？”朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)援引平壤方面的话说。
According to the agency, North Korea said it also considered the “season and time” in rejecting Ms. Park’s proposal, indicating that it did not have enough time to prepare for family reunions in late January. But, the agency reported, Pyongyang added that the two Koreas will be able to hold the reunions when “a good season comes,” suggesting that it would discuss them after South Korea and the United States have finished their scheduled joint military exercises in March and after reports critical of Mr. Kim have subsided in the South Korean media.
据朝中社报道，朝鲜表示，己方在拒绝朴槿惠的提议时也考虑了“季节和时间”，暗指己方没有足够的时间来筹备1月末的家庭团聚活动。然而，朝中社报道称，平壤方面补充说，朝韩两国可以在“合适季节到来之时”举办此类活动。这表明，在韩国和美国结束了预定于3月举行的联合军演，批评金正恩的报道也在韩国媒体中沉寂下来以后，朝鲜愿意讨论相关事宜。
“It is a good thing if the South proposed family reunions with a desire to ease the pains of the division of the nation and improve North-South relations,” North Korea said, according to the agency.
根据朝中社的报道，朝鲜表示，“如果南方关于在年节之际进行离散家属团聚的提议真正出于减轻分裂之痛、改善北南关系的好意，这当然是好事。”
It also insisted that future talks to arrange family reunions must also discuss reopening an inter-Korean tourism program at the Diamond Mountain resort in North Korea, which had been highly lucrative for Pyongyang until it was shut down in 2008. South Korean officials said such demands could prove problematic.
朝鲜还坚称，今后就离散家属会面安排进行谈判的时候，还必须讨论重启朝鲜境内的金刚山旅游区项目。该朝韩合作旅游项目在2008年被关闭，在此之前一直是朝鲜的一大财源。韩国官员表示，事实可能会证明，这些要求是有问题的。
“It’s regrettable that North Korea is linking a humanitarian project to our annual military exercises,” said Kim Eui-do, a spokesman of the Unification Ministry of South Korea. “We hope that North Korea will demonstrate its sincerity through action, rather than just talking about improving relations with the South.”
韩国统一部发言人金义韬（Kim Eui-do，音译）说，“朝鲜把人道主义项目和我方的年度军演关联起来，这一点令人遗憾。我们希望朝鲜以行动展现自己的诚意，而不仅止于口头谈论改善朝韩关系。”
President Park made her overture five days after Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, called for improved ties with South Korea during his New Year’s Day speech.
朴槿惠总统做出前述友好表示五天之前，朝鲜领导人金正恩曾在今年的新年贺词中呼吁改善朝韩关系。
Millions of Koreans were separated from relatives when the Korean Peninsula was divided into the communist North and the pro-American South at the end of World War II in 1945. The subsequent Korean War, which began in 1950, ended in 1953 in a cease-fire, with the peninsula still divided. Since then, no exchanges of letters, telephone calls or emails have been allowed between North and South Koreans, and family reunions remain a highly emotional issue and an indicator of the tense state of relations on the peninsula.
1945年，第二次世界大战结束之际，朝鲜半岛分裂成了奉行共产主义的朝鲜和亲美国的韩国，数百万人因此与家人离散。始于1950年的朝鲜战争于1953年停火，但朝鲜半岛依然处于分裂状态。从那时起，两国民众的书信、电话或电子邮件的往来就遭到了各自政府的禁止，亲属团聚依然是一个带有浓重感情色彩的议题，是朝韩关系紧张状态的一个指针。
About 22,000 people from both Koreas participated in 18 rounds of government-arranged reunions between 1985 and 2010, when the program was suspended as relations between the two countries soured. About 73,000 South Koreans — half of whom are more than 80 years old — remain on a waiting list for a chance to meet with parents, siblings or children in the North for the first time in 60 years.
1985到2010年，朝韩双方大约有2.2万人参加了18轮由政府安排的团聚活动。2010年，随着两国关系的恶化，该项目被搁置下来。大约有7.3万韩国人依然在等待名单上排队，等待一个60年来首次和身处朝鲜的父母、兄弟姐妹或子女会面的机会，这些人中有一半已经超过了80岁。
The humanitarian program seemed close to being renewed last fall but was scuttled at the last minute. The North demanded that the South resume tours of the Diamond Mountain resort in return for allowing the family reunions. On Thursday, South Korea reaffirmed that it would discuss the tours only after inter-Korean relations have improved significantly enough.
去年秋天，前述人道主义项目似乎就要重新启动，但却在最后时刻遭到了破坏。朝鲜要求韩国恢复金刚山旅游区项目，以此换取己方对亲属团聚活动的批准。周四，韩国再次重申，只有在朝韩关系获得足够重大的改善后，才会和朝鲜讨论金刚山旅游区项目。