SEOUL, South Korea — A Canadian pastor who had been sentenced to hard labor for life in North Korea was released on humanitarian grounds on Wednesday, the North’s official media said.
韩国首尔——朝鲜官方媒体报道，该国周三出于人道主义释放了一名判处终身劳教的加拿大籍牧师。
The Rev. Lim Hyeon-soo, a South Korea-born pastor of the Light Korean Presbyterian Church in Toronto, received his penalty in December 2015, when North Korea’s Supreme Court convicted him of carrying out “subversive plots” and committing “activities against” the country, like harming the dignity of the supreme leadership of Kim Jong-un.
这位名叫林铉洙(Hyeon Soo Lim)的牧师在韩国出生，任职于多伦多的韩光长老教会(Light Korean Presbyterian Church)。2015年12月，朝鲜最高法院判决他犯有实施“颠覆阴谋”和从事“反朝活动”的罪行，如损害金正恩(Kim Jong-un)最高领导的尊严。
Mr. Lim was released on Wednesday, when the same court decided to free him on sick bail, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said. The agency’s one-sentence dispatch gave no further detail.
朝鲜官方的朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)报道称，林铉洙于周三获释，最高法院决定批准其保外就医。朝中社的报道只有一句话，没有透露更多的细节。
The release of Mr. Lim came two months after an American college student, Otto F. Warmbier, died shortly after he was freed from North Korea while in a coma. Mr. Warmbier, 22, was serving a sentence of 15 years of hard labor for trying to steal a political poster from a Pyongyang hotel.
在林铉洙获释的两个月前，处于昏迷状态的美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)在被朝鲜释放后不久死亡。22岁的瓦姆比尔因试图盗取平壤一家酒店的政治宣传画而被判处15年劳教。
His death angered many Americans and eventually convinced the State Department to ban Americans from visiting North Korea.
他的死激怒了很多美国人，并最终说服美国国务院下令禁止美国人前往朝鲜。
Mr. Lim, who had visited North Korea more than 100 times on what his church called humanitarian missions, lost contact with his congregation after entering the country in early 2015. A tearful Mr. Lim later appeared in a government-arranged news conference in Pyongyang and confessed to plotting to overthrow the North Korean leadership by undermining the “worship” of Kim Jong-un.
2015年年初，因所在教会所说的人道主义行动而去过朝鲜100多次的林铉洙在进入朝鲜后失联。后来，林铉洙泪流满面地出现在平壤一场由政府安排的新闻发布会上，供认自己密谋通过破坏对金正恩的“崇拜”，推翻朝鲜领导人。
His church had supported a nursing home, a nursery and an orphanage in North Korea since it began a mission there in 1996, when the country was in the grip of a famine that killed thousands of people.
1996年朝鲜发生饥荒，导致成千上万人死亡，林铉洙所在的教会开始在朝鲜开展活动。自那之后，该教会援助了朝鲜一家疗养院、一家托儿所和一家孤儿院。
Mr. Lim said during his news conference that the bags of food he had donated across North Korea had carried the sign of the cross and phrases from the Bible. North Korean prosecutors also accused him of helping “lure and abduct” North Korean citizens, calling them defectors.
林铉洙在那场新闻发布会上说，他捐赠给朝鲜各地的食品袋子上有十字架符号和摘抄自《圣经》的语句。朝鲜检方还控告他参与“引诱和绑架”被其称作叛徒的朝鲜公民。
North Korea, which zealously tries to shield its citizens from outside influences, has detained several foreign missionaries in recent years, calling them spies or agents of subversive ideas.
朝鲜极力试图阻止自己的公民受外界的影响，近年来已拘押多名外国传教士，称他们是间谍或颠覆思想的代理人。
Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for trying to establish a secret proselytizing network, was freed in 2014, after the United States government sent its director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea.
韩裔美籍传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)曾被以试图建立秘密传教网络的名义判处15年劳教。2014年，在美国政府派国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)访问朝鲜后，肯尼斯·裴获释。
During his detention or trial, Mr. Lim’s family members were not allowed to visit him, and appealed repeatedly to North Korea to free him.
在林铉洙被关押和受审期间，家人未获准探视他。他们曾多次请求朝鲜释放他。