SEOUL, South Korea — South and North Korean troops exchanged gunfire across their tense border on Sunday, even as the South reaffirmed its desire to hold high-level talks with the North.
韩国首尔——正当韩国重申与朝鲜举行高层会谈的愿望时，两国军队周日在紧张的边境地带交火。
Ten North Korean soldiers approached the military demarcation line near Paju, north of Seoul, several times on Sunday, prompting South Korean border guards to broadcast warnings for them not to come any farther south, said a South Korean military spokesman, who spoke on the customary condition of anonymity.
韩国军方的一名发言人称，10名朝鲜士兵周日多次靠近位于首尔以北的坡州附近的军事分界线，促使韩方边防人员通过广播的形式警告其不要进一步南下。按照惯例，韩方未公布该发言人的姓名。
The last time the North Korean troops approached the line, around 5:40 p.m. on Sunday, South Korean troops fired warning shots, and that prompted a brief exchange of fire between guard posts on the two sides, the spokesman said. No casualties were reported.
这名发言人称，当朝方军队大约在周日下午5点40分最后一次接近军事分界线时，韩军鸣枪示警，随即双方哨所之间发生了短暂的交火。目前没有传出人员伤亡的报道。
The military demarcation line lies within the two-mile-wide demilitarized zone that bisects the Korean Peninsula.
朝韩军事分界线位于一个大约4公里宽的非军事区内，而该非军事区将朝鲜半岛一分为二。
The confrontation came nine days after the two armies exchanged machine-gun fire across the border after the North tried to shoot down large balloons carrying anti-North Korean propaganda leaflets that South Korean activists had released.
就在此次对抗发生的九天前，双方军队也曾因朝方试图击落来自韩国的大型气球，而在边境地带互射机关枪。那些气球携有反朝宣传单，由韩国活动人士放飞。
Last Wednesday, top generals from South and North Korea met on their border but failed to narrow differences over the balloons and other disputes that have kept both sides from improving relations. The North also accused President Park Geun-hye of South Korea of committing an “unpardonable politically motivated provocation” after she urged the North to abandon its nuclear weapons program and improve human rights during a summit meeting of Asian and European leaders last week.
上周三，来自韩国和朝鲜的高级将领在两国边境会晤，但未能弥合两国在气球等争议领域的差异。这些差异一直阻碍了两国关系的改善。朝鲜还指责，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)上周在亚欧领导人峰会上敦促朝鲜放弃核计划、改善人权状况的做法，“是不可容忍的又一个政治挑衅”。