SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Wednesday that it would open the seventh congress of its ruling Workers’ Party next week. It will be the country’s biggest political convention in more than three decades and a likely platform for its leader, Kim Jong-un, to cement his authority.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周三表示，将于下周召开劳动党第七次代表大会，劳动党是朝鲜的执政党。这将是该国三十多年来最大的一次政治大会，大会很可能成为国家领导人金正恩巩固自己权威的平台。
The party faced a “task of advancing the final victory of its revolution under the leadership of Kim Jong-un,” its Politburo said, announcing that the congress, the first since 1980, would begin next Friday.
劳动党中央政治局常委会宣布，将于下周五召开代表大会，并表示，劳动党面临着“在金正恩领导下，把革命推向最后胜利的任务”。这是1980年以来的第一次党代表大会。
Mr. Kim already oversees the party as its first secretary. In recent weeks, towns and provinces in North Korea have held party meetings to elect delegates to be sent to the congress in Pyongyang, the capital. They all adopted a motion to uphold Mr. Kim as the party leader.
金正恩已经以第一书记的身份负责劳动党的事务。最近几周，朝鲜的城镇和省份都在举行党代会，以选举出前往首都平壤的代表。这些会上都通过了支持以金正恩为劳动党领袖的议案。
The congress is expected to last several days. It will most likely review or change party lines and elect new leaders, said Jeong Joon-hee, a government spokesman for the South, referring to the role of the congress as defined in the charter of the Workers’ Party.
此次代表大会预计将持续数天。韩国政府的一位发言人郑俊熙，参照劳动党章程给代表大会确立的作用说，大会很可能会审议或修改党的路线，选举新的领导人。
Under the one-party rule of North Korea, the congress is, in theory, the country’s highest decision-making body. The rare gathering allows Mr. Kim to put his stamp on the party and formally usher in his era by filling its congress with handpicked loyalists, South Korean analysts said.
在一党统治下的朝鲜，党的代表大会从理论上讲，是该国的最高决策机构。韩国分析人士说，召集这次罕见的大会将让金正恩给劳动党打上自己的烙印，通过精心挑选忠诚者出席大会，他将正式迎来他的时代。
Mr. Kim’s grandfather, President Kim Il-sung, founded the North’s government after the Korean Peninsula was liberated from Japanese colonial rule at the end of World War II. Mr. Kim took over the dynastic rule after his father, Kim Jong-il, died in 2011.
金正恩的祖父是金日成主席，二战结束后，朝鲜半岛从日本殖民统治下获得解放，金日成在北方成立了朝鲜政府。金正恩在父亲金正日于2011年去世之后，继承了金氏王朝的统治。
During its last party congress, in 1980, North Korea elevated the status of Mr. Kim’s father as heir apparent by showering him with crucial party posts.
在1980年召开的上一次党代表大会上，朝鲜通过授予金正恩的父亲一系列重要的党内职务，确立了金正日的继承人地位。
Mr. Kim already holds top posts in the party and military. He has also reshuffled the elites in his government with a series of purges and executions. Some analysts in the South said the congress would serve as more of an occasion to celebrate Mr. Kim’s authority than to institute major changes in leadership.
金正恩已经担任党和军队的高级职务。他还通过一系列清洗和处决，改组了自己政府中的精英层。韩国有些分析人士说，这次大会在更大程度上将成为庆祝金正恩权力的场合，而不会对领导层做出太大的变化。
But one function of the congress is to elect a new Central Committee, which could prompt changes in other important party organs like the Politburo.
但党代表大会的一个功能是选举新的中央委员会，这可能会给其它重要的党内机构、比如政治局常委会带来变化。
In recent months, the North Korean military, the Workers’ Party and the administration began a number of construction and other projects to be finished in time to celebrate the congress.
近几个月来，朝鲜军队、劳动党和政府已开始了一些建设项目，这些项目将赶在大会之前完成，为大会的召开献礼。
Mr. Kim has shown up frequently to watch missile tests and what his government has called the successful tests of technologies, including a new rocket engine, needed to make nuclear-tipped long-range missiles as a deterrent against invasion by the United States.
金正恩经常出来观看导弹试发，还出现在其政府称为成功的技术测试的场合，比如一个新火箭发动机的测试，该技术是带有核弹头的远程导弹所需的，而这种武器具有针对美国的入侵制造威慑的作用。