SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea, a country widely condemned for egregious rights violations, issued its own report on Saturday on the state of human rights in the country, disputing outside criticism and suggesting that accusations of abuses are politically motivated.
韩国首尔——周六，被指人权状况极端恶劣的朝鲜发布了本国人权现状报告，驳斥外界批评，并称对朝鲜的虐待指控是出于政治动机。
The “all-inclusive,” five-chapter report was prepared by the North’s Association for Human Rights Studies “to lay bare the false and reactionary nature of the reckless anti-North Korean human rights racket and to wipe out the prejudice and misunderstanding,” the official Korean Central News Agency said.
官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)报道称，朝鲜人权研究协会(North’s Association for Human Rights Studies)起草了这份由五个章节组成的“全面”报告，以便“揭露敌对势力的反朝人权闹剧的虚伪性和反动性，纠正偏见和误解”。
The report, more than 53,000 words in the English translation, did not mention prison gulags, which have been described in detail by defectors, including a handful of survivors, as places where anyone deemed disloyal to the country’s ruling family is detained in brutal conditions. The report instead claims that North Koreans enjoy robust human rights, including freedom of speech and religion and protection from slavery and torture.
这份长达5.3万词的英文版报告没有提及劳改营，根据包括少数幸存者在内的逃脱者的详尽描述，那些被视为对该国统治家族不忠的人，都被关押在条件极其糟糕的劳改营中。相反，该报告称，朝鲜人民在很大程度上享有人权，比如言论自由、宗教自由，以及免受奴役和酷刑。
“In the confrontation between the D.P.R.K. and U.S., the U.S. learned that it was impossible to overthrow the people-centered system by means of political and military threats and pressure as well as the economic blockade,” the report said, using the abbreviation for the country’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. “What they found next was the human rights issue.”
“在DPRK与美国的对抗中，美国认识到它不可能通过政治、军事威胁、施压及经济封锁推翻以人为本的制度，”该报道称，“他们发现的下一个手段就是人权问题。”报告中使用了朝鲜全称“朝鲜民主主义人民共和国”的缩写。
Human rights conditions in North Korea, especially a network of political prison camps that is reported to be vast, have drawn wider international attention since a United Nations commission of inquiry issued a report in February confirming “widespread, systematic and gross” violations.
联合国一调查委员会于今年2月发布报告，确认朝鲜存在“广泛的、系统的、恶劣的”侵犯人权现象。自此之后，朝鲜的人权状况受到广泛的国际关注，尤其是报告中所说的庞大的政治监狱系统。
After a yearlong investigation that included interviews with many defectors from the isolated police state, the commission documented in often gruesome detail what it called violations ranging from the “crime of extermination” to the brutal conditions in concentration camps, including enslavement, torture, rape and executions. The North did not allow international investigators into the country to follow up on the defectors’ accounts.
经过了多年的调查，包括与许多从这个封闭的警察国家逃离的人面谈，这个委员会以骇人听闻的细节记录下了朝鲜对人权的侵犯，如“灭绝罪”以及集中营里残酷的条件，包括奴役、酷刑、强奸和处决。朝鲜禁止国际调查人员进入该国证实脱北者的说法。
One defector, Shin Dong-hyuk, whose prison life was chronicled in a best-selling book, told the investigators that he witnessed the execution of his mother and brother in the camp where he was incarcerated.
脱北者申东赫(Shin Dong-hyuk)告诉调查人员，他亲眼看到自己的母亲和哥哥在劳改营中被处决，他当时就被关在那座劳改营里。申东赫在劳改营的生活已经被一本畅销书记录下来。
The United Nations Human Rights Council issued a strongly worded resolution in March that called on the Security Council to take action, including referring North Korea to some form of international judicial process. But any such move would be likely to face resistance from China, the North’s longtime patron, which holds veto power on the council.
联合国人权理事会今年3月发表了一份措辞强烈的决议，呼吁安理会采取行动，包括对朝鲜启动某种形式的国际司法程序。但任何类似的举动都极有可能遭到中国的抵制，中国是朝鲜的长期庇护者，且在安理会拥有否决权。
Human rights advocates have long bemoaned the lack of action on North Korea’s human rights record, saying the world has been focused too exclusively on the threat posed by the country’s nuclear weapons program.
长期以来，让人权倡导者感到不满的是，国际社会一直没有对朝鲜的人权问题采取行动，他们称，国际社会过于关注该国核武器项目的威胁，完全忽视了其他问题。
North Korea condemns all discussion of its human rights record by foreign governments, calling it interference in domestic affairs and a political plot to undermine its government.
朝鲜对外国政府针对其人权问题的所有讨论表示谴责，称这是在干预朝鲜内政，是诋毁朝鲜政府的政治阴谋。