SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea plans to send a high-level government delegation to South Korea to attend the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics this week, South Korean officials said on Sunday.
韩国首尔——韩国官方周日表示，朝鲜计划派出一支高规格的政府代表团前往韩国，参加本周的冬奥会开幕式。
The 22-member delegation will be led by Kim Yong-nam, the president of the Presidium of North Korean Parliament, the South Korean government announced, citing a notice it received from the North late Sunday.
韩国政府援引周日晚上收到的朝方通知称，这支22人的代表团将由朝鲜最高人民会议常任委员会委员长金永南(Kim Yong-nam)率领。
The group’s three-day visit will start on Friday, when the opening ceremony will be held in the South Korean town of Pyeongchang.
代表团为期三天的访问将从周五，即开幕式在韩国平昌举行的这一天开始。
Mr. Kim, who is not related to Kim Jong-un, the country’s supreme leader, is often referred to as North Korea’s nominal head of state because he receives visiting heads of state, approves the credentials of ambassadors and represents North Korea on state visits abroad. He led the North Korean delegation to the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.
金永南与朝鲜最高领导人金正恩没有亲戚关系。他常被称作朝鲜名义上的国家元首，因为他会接待到访的国家元首、批准大使的资格，并代表朝鲜到国外进行国事访问。2008年，他率领朝鲜代表团参加了北京夏季奥运会。
At 90, he is the oldest member of the North Korean leadership, though his role is largely ceremonial, with power concentrated in Kim Jong-un, the country’s “monolithic” leader.
金永南现年90岁，是朝鲜领导层中年纪最大的，尽管他的角色主要是仪式性的，权力都集中在朝鲜“唯一”的领导人金正恩手上。
Kim Yong-nam is expected to meet President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, whose government has been hoping for a high-level delegation from Pyongyang. It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Kim would carry a letter or message from Kim Jong-un.
金永南预计将与韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)会面。文在寅领导的政府一直希望平壤派出一支高层代表团。尚不清楚金永南是否会携带金正恩的书信或口信。
Since taking power last May, Mr. Moon has been eager to start dialogue with North Korea to ease tensions.
自去年5月上台以来，文在寅一直渴望与朝鲜对话，以缓解紧张局势。
His efforts received a leg-up when Kim Jong-un expressed his willingness during his New Year’s Day speech to send athletes to the Olympics. That led to a series of talks in which the two Koreas agreed to march together in the opening ceremony and field a joint team in women’s ice hockey, the first ever inter-Korean Olympic team.
金正恩在新年贺词中表示有意愿派运动员参加本届奥运会，助了文在寅一臂之力。这促使两国举行了一系列会谈，同意在开幕式上共同入场，并共同组建一支女子冰球队。这是两国首次联合组建奥运会参赛队伍。
Mr. Moon is also scheduled to meet with Vice President Mike Pence and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, who will lead their countries’ Olympic delegations to South Korea. Both Washington and Tokyo have warned that efforts to improve dialogue between the Koreas should not weaken the enforcement of sanctions that the United Nations has imposed on the North for its nuclear and missile tests.
文在寅还计划与美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)举行会晤。他们将率领各自国家的奥运代表团前往韩国。华盛顿和东京都警告称，为改善朝韩对话而展开的努力，不应削弱联合国因朝鲜进行核武器和导弹试验而对其实行的制裁的执行力度。
Kim Yong-nam is one of the few top aides to Kim Jong-un who have not been blacklisted for involvement in North Korea’s nuclear weapons programs. He is also one of few senior officials to have been spared in the frequent purges Kim Jong-un has engineered in recent years to eliminate elites considered insufficiently loyal.
金永南是金正恩为数不多的没有因参与朝鲜核武计划而被列入黑名单的高级助手之一。他也是未被金正恩近年来为了消灭被认为不够忠诚的权贵而频繁制造的清洗所殃及的少数高层官员之一。
Some analysts expected Kim Jong-un to allow Choe Ryong-hae, a senior party official widely considered his right-hand man, to lead the North Korean delegation to Seoul this week despite his being blacklisted by the South Korean government.
一些分析人士原本预计，金正恩会不顾崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)被韩国政府列入黑名单的事实，让其本周率团前往首尔。身为朝鲜党内高层官员的崔龙海普遍被视为金正恩的左膀右臂。
Kim Yong-nam will be the highest-ranking North Korean official to visit South Korea since Mr. Choe and two other senior officials attended the closing ceremony of the 2014 Asian Games in the South Korean city of Incheon.
金永南将是自2014年崔龙海和另外两名高层官员出席在韩国仁川举行的亚运会闭幕式以来，到访韩国的最高级别朝鲜官员。