SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea abruptly postponed high-level talks with South Korea on Wednesday to protest a joint South Korean-United States Air Force drill, and warned that the historic summit meeting between North Korea’s leader and President Trump next month could be jeopardized.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周三突然推迟与韩国的高层会谈，抗议韩国与美国的联合空军演习，并警告称，朝鲜领导人和特朗普总统定于下月举行的历史性首脑会谈可能会受到影响。
The news injected sudden tension and uncertainty into what had been months of warming relations on the Korean Peninsula. It came weeks before North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, who has raised the possibility of relinquishing his nuclear weapons, is scheduled to confer with President Trump in what would be the first meeting between leaders of both countries.
这个消息让数月来不断缓和的朝鲜半岛局势突然变得紧张和不确定起来。金正恩提出了放弃核武器的可能性。按照计划，他将于几周后同特朗普总统会谈。这将是两国领导人首次会晤。
Mr. Trump, who threatened North Korea last year with “fire and fury” if Mr. Kim attacked the United States with nuclear weapons, has said he hopes the planned June 12 meeting in Singapore will lead to improved relations with North Korea after decades of hostility.
特朗普说，他希望计划于6月12日在新加坡举行的会谈能够带来与朝鲜关系的改善，结束数十年的敌对状态。特朗普去年威胁称，如果金正恩用核武器攻击美国，便会让朝鲜陷入“炮火与怒火”。
Senior officials from the two Koreas had been scheduled to meet in the so-called “truce village” of Panmunjom on their border on Wednesday to discuss putting in place an agreement to improve ties and ease military tensions between the countries that their leaders signed in a meeting on April 27.
朝韩两国的高级官员原定于周三在两国边境上所谓的“停战村”板门店举行会谈，讨论实施两国领导人4月27日会面时签署的一项协议。该协议旨在改善两国关系，缓解军事紧张局势。
But the North, appearing to catch South Korea off guard, informed the South early Wednesday that it was unilaterally postponing the talks “indefinitely,” said the South’s Unification Ministry, which helps manage relations between the two Koreas.
但协助管理两国关系的韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)称，朝鲜周三一早通知韩国，朝鲜单方面“无限期”推迟会谈。此事似乎令韩国措手不及。
The North cited as a reason the annual Max Thunder air force drill that South Korea and the United States started last week, the Unification Ministry said.
韩国统一部表示，朝鲜给出的理由是韩美两国上周开始的年度“超级雷霆”(Max Thunder)空军演习。
The North’s official Korean Central News Agency appeared to go further, warning that the United States should “give serious thought” to how the military drill could affect the plan to hold the summit meeting.
朝鲜官方的朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)似乎更进一步，警告美国应该对军演可能会对朝美峰会产生什么影响“深思熟虑”。
“We will be closely watching the attitude of the United States and South Korean authorities,” the news agency said. It said the Max Thunder drill was a “deliberate military provocation” that had violated the inter-Korean summit agreement reached by Mr. Kim and the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, in their meeting to work toward easing military tensions.
“朝鲜将密切注视美国和南朝鲜当局的今后态度，”朝中社写道。该通讯社称“超级雷霆”演习是“故意的军事挑衅”，违反了金正恩和韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)在会晤期间为缓解军事紧张局势而达成的朝韩峰会协议。
“The South Korean authorities and the United States launched a large-scale joint air force drill against our Republic even before the ink on the historic inter-Korean declaration has dried,” the news agency said. “There is a limit to our good will.”
“但历史性的‘4·27’宣言的墨迹还没干，南朝鲜当局和美国却进行大规模反朝联合空中训练，”朝中社写道。“对发善意也该有点分寸。”
The North’s move was surprising partly because Mr. Kim had earlier shown flexibility toward joint military exercises between the South and the United States even though the North had used those drills in the past as a reason to avoid talks with the South.
朝鲜此举出人意料，一定程度上是因为，尽管朝鲜过去曾以韩美联合军演为由避免与韩国谈判，但金正恩早前对这些演习表现出了变通。
When Mr. Kim met with South Korean envoys in March, he agreed to meet with President Moon the following month, even though a round of joint South Korean-United States military drills was to start in April.
当金正恩三月与韩国特使会面时，他同意与文在寅于第二个月举行会晤，尽管有一轮美韩联合军演将在四月开始。
Mr. Kim was quoted by the South Korean envoys then as saying he understood that those exercises must continue.
当时，韩国特使引述金正恩的话，说他理解这些军演必须继续。
Those particular drills are over. The United States and South Korean air forces started the new round of annual drills last Friday.
当时那些军演已经结束。美韩两国的空军于上周五开始了新一轮的年度军演。
In Washington, the State Department spokeswoman, Heather Nauert, said the United States had no information about North Korea’s postponement of the meeting with the South.
在华盛顿，国务院发言人希瑟·诺尔特(Heather Nauert)表示，美国没有任何关于朝鲜推迟与韩国会晤的信息。
“Kim Jong-un had said previously that he understands the need and the utility of the United States and the Republic of Korea continuing in its joint exercises,” Ms. Nauert said, using South Korea’s official name. “They are exercises that are legal, they’re planned well, well in advance.”
“金正恩此前表示过他理解美国与大韩民国继续联合演习的需求和效用，”诺尔特说，期间使用了韩国的官方名称。“这些演习合法，很早之前就计划好了。”
Ms. Nauert also said the United States had received no notification of any possible change in plans for the summit meeting next month.
诺尔特还表示，美国没有收到任何关于下个月会晤计划可能发生变化的通知。
“We will continue to go ahead and plan the meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un,” she said.
“我们会继续筹划特朗普总统与金正恩之间的会晤，”她说。
The Pentagon described the Max Thunder exercise as “recurring” and “annual” to maintain military readiness to defend South Korea. “The defensive nature of these combined exercises has been clear for many decades and has not changed,” said Col. Rob Manning, a Defense Department spokesman.
五角大楼称“超级雷霆”演习“多次”举行、“每年”都会有，目的是为了保持战备，保卫韩国。“几十年来，这些联合演习的防御性质一直十分明确，也从未改变过，”国防部发言人罗伯·曼宁(Rob Manning)上校说。
In their March meeting, Mr. Kim told the South Korean envoys that he hoped the United States and South Korea would “readjust” their annual military drills “when the situation stabilizes,” according to the envoys.
韩国特使称，金正恩三月份会见他们的时候曾表示“等局势稳定后”，希望美韩两国能够“重新调整”年度军演。
Tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula have eased considerably since Mr. Kim began a fast-paced string of diplomatic overtures in recent months, starting with his decision to send North Korean athletes to the Winter Olympics held in the South in February.
自金正恩近几个月来开始了一系列快速推进的外交示好后，朝鲜半岛的紧张局势大为缓和。这些外交示好以他在二月派遣朝鲜运动员参加在韩国举行的冬奥会作为开端。
Last month, North Korea announced an end to all nuclear and long-range missile tests. Last week, it freed three Americans held in North Korea, sending them home with Mr. Trump’s new secretary of state, Mike Pompeo.
上个月，朝鲜宣布结束所有核弹及远程导弹试验。上周，它又释放了三名关押在朝鲜的美国人，让他们和特朗普的新国务卿迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)一道回家。
This week, the North invited international journalists to watch its engineers shut down its only-known nuclear test site later this month.
本周，朝鲜邀请国际记者前往该国，于本月晚些时候观看其工程师关闭外界所知道的唯一核试验场。
The two Koreas have also started dismantling loudspeakers they have used to blare propaganda broadcasts across the border.
朝韩两国也开始拆除曾经用来在边界上高声广播宣传内容的扩音器。
The Trump administration has said its policy of applying “maximum” pressure and sanctions would continue until North Korea takes substantial measures toward denuclearization.
特朗普政府已经表示过，其施加“最大”压力的政策和制裁将会继续，直到朝鲜采取无核化的实质性举措。
That policy has included increasingly bold joint military exercises with South Korea, including sending multiple aircraft carriers near the Korean Peninsula and flying strategic bombers near the eastern coast of North Korea.
该政策包括与韩国愈发大胆的联合军演，将多艘航母派遣至朝鲜半岛附近，并且让战略性轰炸机在朝鲜东海岸附近飞过。
In recent weeks, as they engaged North Korea in dialogue, the United States and South Korea have tried not to advertise their joint drills in order not to provoke the North. But South Korean media have reported that this year’s Max Thunder drill would include eight F-22 Raptor stealth fighter jets and two B-52 Stratofortress bombers.
近几周，随着他们与朝鲜开始对话，美韩两国已经努力没有对联合军演进行大肆宣传，以免激怒朝鲜。但据韩国媒体报道，今年的“超级雷霆”军演将包括八架F-22猛禽隐形战机及两架B-52同温层堡垒轰炸机。
North Korea has been particularly sensitive about exercises that involve these nuclear-capable aircraft and naval vessels, citing them as a reason for developing its own nuclear deterrent.
朝鲜一直对包括这些可携带核武器的飞机及舰艇尤其敏感，并将它们作为发展核威慑力的原因。
North Korea has long demanded that the United States not deploy these weapons around South Korea as one of the conditions for making the Korean Peninsula “nuclear free.” It had been widely expected to push that demand again in any discussions about the terms of denuclearization.
作为让朝鲜半岛“无核”的条件之一，朝鲜一直要求美国不要在韩国部署这些武器。外界普遍预期，朝鲜会在关于无核化条件的讨论中再次提出该要求。