SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea conducted a ground jet test of a newly developed high-thrust missile engine, the country’s state-run news media said on Sunday, even as Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson is in the region discussing tougher strategies to help end the North’s nuclear and missile programs.
韩国首尔——正当美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)在该地区讨论实行更强硬的策略，以求终结朝鲜的导弹和核计划时，朝鲜官方新闻媒体周日报道，该国对新研发的一款大推力导弹发动机进行了地面试验。
The Korean Central News Agency said the test took place at the same northwest facility where the country has been launching rockets to put satellites into orbit, which Western officials have said were efforts to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile.
朝鲜中央通讯社(The Korean Central News Agency)称，进行试验的地方，正是朝鲜发射火箭将卫星送入轨道的西北发射基地。西方官员称，朝鲜发射火箭是为了发展洲际弹道导弹。
Although North Korea has never flight-tested an intercontinental ballistic missile, it has recently demonstrated significant progress in its missile programs with new engines that could potentially deliver a nuclear warhead as far away as the United States.
朝鲜从未试射过洲际弹道导弹，但最近，该国的导弹计划显示出了重大进步，其新型发动机可能可以把核弹头投到远及美国的地方。
Mr. Tillerson is in Asia, holding discussions with Japan, South Korea and China. In Seoul, South Korea, on Friday, he said that two decades of international efforts to end North Korea’s nuclear weapons program have failed, and he warned that all options should be on the table, including pre-emptive military action.
蒂勒森目前正在亚洲同日本、韩国和中国进行商讨。周五在韩国首尔，他说国际社会为结束朝鲜核武器计划而进行的长达二十年的努力失败了，并警告所有的选项都在考虑范围内，包括先发制人的军事行动。
In August, North Korea said it had successfully tested a submarine-launched ballistic missile, after failing on several earlier attempts. Last month, it launched a new type of intermediate-range ballistic missile it said could carry a nuclear payload. And earlier this month, North Korea launched four ballistic missiles at the same time.
去年8月，朝鲜称已成功试射一枚潜射弹道导弹。在那之前，该国的几次试验均以失败告终。上月，朝鲜发射了一枚声称可携带核弹的新型中程弹道导弹。本月早些时候，朝鲜同时发射了四枚弹道导弹。
Since Kim Jong-un took power in 2011, North Korea has launched 46 ballistic missiles, including 24 last year, in violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions, according to South Korean officials.
据韩国官员称，自金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在2011年掌权以来，朝鲜已不顾联合国安理会的决议，发射了46枚弹道导弹，其中去年发射了24枚。