SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Sunday accused United States officials of “mugging” its diplomats at Kennedy International Airport by seizing a diplomatic package they were carrying.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周日谴责美国官员在肯尼迪国际机场(Kennedy International Airport )抢劫其外交官，夺走了他们携带的一件外交行李。
A North Korean delegation, returning home from a United Nations conference in New York, was about to board a plane on Friday when more than 20 agents and police officers from the Department of Homeland Security confiscated the package, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying.
朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)援引朝鲜外交部发言人的说法称，周五，在纽约参加完联合国会议后准备回国的朝鲜外交代表团即将登机时，被来自美国国土安全部的20多名探员和警察没收了那件行李。
“As the diplomats vigorously resisted, they grabbed the diplomatic package using physical violence and made off,” he said, adding that the North Koreans were carrying a valid diplomatic courier certificate.
“在外交官们强烈抗拒之际，他们使用肢体暴力抓住行李，将其掠走，”他说。他还表示，那些朝鲜人当时持有合法的外交信使证明书。
“This clearly shows that the U.S. is a felonious and lawless gangster state,” he said. “The U.S. should reflect on its reckless act and be fully aware of the grave consequences to follow.”
“这显然表明美国是一个穷凶极恶、无法无天的流氓国家，”他说。“美国应该反思自己的莽撞行径，并充分意识到此举会造成严重后果。”
The spokesman said North Korea “regards this mugging by the U.S. as an intolerable act of infringement upon the sovereignty” of the country, and demanded an explanation and an apology. The spokesman was not quoted by name, as is common in North Korean news reports.
这名发言人称，朝鲜“把美国的这次抢劫视为不可容忍的侵犯主权之举”，要求对方做出解释并道歉。朝中社没有透露该发言人的姓名，这在朝鲜的新闻报道中很常见。
He did not disclose what the diplomatic package contained.
他没有披露行李里都有什么。
In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security said its officers assisted in the inspection of three North Korean citizens on Friday, seizing “multiple media items and packages.” It did not explain why the items were seized, but said the North Koreans attempted to retrieve them.
国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)在一项声明中表示，其官员周五协助对三名朝鲜公民进行了检查，没收了“多媒体物件和行李”。它并没有解释为何这些物品被没收，但表示朝鲜人试图取回它们。
“According to the U.S. State Department, the North Korean citizens were not accredited members of North Korea’s mission to the U.N. and had no entitlement to diplomatic immunity,” the statement said. “The package in question had no protection from inspection.”
“据美国国务院称，这些朝鲜公民并非被认可的朝鲜驻联合国成员代表团成员，不享有外交豁免权。”该声明说。“这件存疑的行李无法免于受检。”
North Korea said its delegation was returning home after attending a session of the Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities.
朝鲜称其外交代表团当时参加完《残疾人权利公约》(Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities)缔约国大会准备回国。
The controversy comes at a delicate time in relations between North Korea and the United States. On Tuesday, North Korea released an American college student, Otto F. Warmbier, who is in a coma after 17 months of captivity. American doctors said Mr. Warmbier had sustained extensive brain damage. North Korea said it had freed him on “humanitarian grounds” but did not reveal details of his medical condition.
这场争议发生之际，正值朝美关系的微妙时刻。上周四，朝鲜释放了被拘17个月、现处于昏迷状态的美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)。美国医生称，瓦姆比尔的脑部大面积受损。朝鲜称释放瓦姆比尔是基于“人道主义原因”，但未披露关于其医疗状况的细节。
Mr. Warmbier was detained in January 2016 while trying to leave North Korea, which he visited on a tourist visa. He was subsequently sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on charges of committing the “hostile act” of stealing a political poster from a wall in his hotel.
瓦姆比尔是持旅游签证到访朝鲜的，于2016年1月试图离开时被扣留。他被控从事“敌对行为”，窃取所住酒店墙上的一幅政治海报，最终被判处15年苦役。