SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Saturday that it had told the United States that it would impose a temporary moratorium on nuclear tests if Washington canceled its joint annual military exercises with South Korea to help promote dialogue on the divided Korean Peninsula.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周六表示，已知会美国，如果华盛顿取消与韩国的年度联合军演，从而推动分裂的朝鲜半岛举行对话，那么它就将暂时中止核试验。
The North proposed its “crucial step” in a message it delivered to the United States on Friday through an unspecified channel, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said. In the past, North Korea has relayed messages to Washington through its United Nations mission in New York.
根据朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)发表的公报，该国在周五通过一个未指明的渠道向美国传达了讯息，其间提出了此番“重大举措”。过去，朝鲜曾通过常驻纽约的联合国代表团向华盛顿传达讯息。
Until now, the United States has dismissed North Korea’s routine demand for an end to its joint military exercises with South Korea. The North has called them a rehearsal for an invasion while the United States and South Korea have insisted that their annual war games are defensive in nature.
截至目前，尽管朝鲜一再要求美国结束与韩国的联合军演，但美国一直未予理会。朝鲜宣称，这些军演是侵略活动的预演，而美国和韩国则坚持表示，他们的年度军演属防御性质。
But the North’s latest proposal included a new incentive for Washington, offering to temporarily suspend nuclear tests in return for a suspension of the joint military exercises this year.
不过，朝鲜最近的这次提议包含了一个针对华盛顿的新激励条件。它主动提出用暂停核试验来交换美国中止今年的联合军演。
The North’s overture followed the New Year’s Day speech of its leader, Kim Jong-un, in which he said he was ready to meet with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea if “the mood was right.” Mr. Kim said the two Koreas should mark their 70th anniversary of liberation from Japanese colonial rule this year with great strides toward inter-Korean reconciliation. North Korea has since significantly toned down its habitually harsh language when referring to South Korea.
不久前，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在新年致辞中表示，如果“气氛成熟”，他愿与韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)进行会谈。金正恩表示，今年是朝鲜半岛从日本的殖民统治下获得解放的70周年，双方应以在和解方面的巨大进展来对此表示纪念。自那时起，在提到韩国时，朝鲜明显收敛了它一贯激烈的语气。
The message proposed that the United States “contribute to easing tension on the Korean Peninsula by temporarily suspending joint military exercises in South Korea and its vicinity this year, and said that in this case the D.P.R.K. is ready to take such responsive step as temporarily suspending the nuclear test over which the U.S. is concerned,” the North Korean news agency said Saturday. D.P.R.K. stands for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the North’s official name.
朝中社周六称，朝方提议美国“今年暂停在韩国及其周边地区进行联合军演，以此为缓和朝鲜半岛紧张局势做出贡献。朝方同时表示，如若如此，DPRK也愿以暂停令美国担忧的核试验来作为回应。”DPRK是该国的正式名称朝鲜民主主义人民共和国(Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)的简称。
The United States on Saturday rebuffed the North Korean proposal. Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman, said it “inappropriately” linked the “routine” joint military drills “to the possibility of a nuclear test.”
周六，美国断然拒绝了朝鲜的提议。国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)称，该提议将“常规的”联合军事演习与“核试验的可能性不当地”联系在了一起。
The South Korean government has proposed a dialogue with North Korea to discuss tension-reducing steps, such as reunions of Korean families separated during the 1950-53 Korean War, as well as a possible North-South summit meeting. The North has not responded to the South Korean proposal yet.
韩国政府已提议与朝鲜开展对话，讨论缓和紧张关系的方法，包括让1950年到1953年朝鲜战争中的离散家属团聚，以及举行韩朝峰会的可能性。朝方尚未回复韩国的提议。
North Korea’s overture to Washington came amid tensions between the two governments over a Sony Pictures movie that involved a fictional C.I.A. plot to assassinate Mr. Kim. Washington accused the North of hacking the computer network of the Hollywood studio and imposed new sanctions last month. The North, which denied involvement, has vowed to retaliate.
朝鲜主动向华盛顿提出上述建议之际，两国政府的关系正因为索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)的一部电影而陷入紧张。该片讲述了一个虚构的美国中央情报局(CIA)刺杀金正恩的阴谋。华盛顿指责朝鲜攻击了这家好莱坞影视公司的计算机网络，并在上个月对朝鲜实施了新的制裁。朝鲜方面则否认与此次黑客攻击有关，并扬言要采取报复行动。
North Korea has conducted three nuclear tests — in 2006, 2009 and 2013 — prompting a series of United Nations sanctions. A recently published South Korean Defense Ministry analysis said the North had made significant advances toward making its nuclear weapons small enough to fit onto a long-range missile capable of reaching the West Coast of the United States. Experts said the North needed more tests to demonstrate such capabilities.
朝鲜分别于2006年、2009年和2013年进行了三次核试验，并因此引发了联合国的一系列制裁措施。韩国国防部近期发布的一份分析报告称，在缩小核武器尺寸上，朝鲜取得了重大进展。朝鲜的目标是使其缩小到可以搭载在一枚能够抵达美国西海岸的远程导弹上。不过专家称，朝鲜需要更多测试来证明自己的确拥有这样的能力。
The United States keeps 28,500 troops in South Korea under a mutual defense treaty, a legacy of the Korean War, when it fought on the South’s side.
根据一份共同的防务条约，美国目前在韩国保持着2.85万人的驻军规模。该协议是朝鲜战争的遗产。美国支持韩方参与了这场战争。