SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has announced that it will not accept any foreign tourists beginning Friday because of fears of the Ebola virus, three agencies that take tourists to the isolated country said on Thursday.
韩国首尔——有三家组织游客前往与世隔绝的朝鲜观光的旅行社周四表示，出于对埃博拉病毒的担忧，朝鲜已宣布，从周五开始不再接待任何外国游客。
The news came as the country said it was stepping up inspections and quarantine measures at its main airport, borders and ports to guard against the spread of the deadly virus, which has killed thousands of people in the latest outbreak.
传出这一消息的时候，朝鲜表示正在加强主要机场、边境和港口的检验检疫措施，以防止这一致命性病毒的扩散。在最近这轮疫情中，埃博拉病毒已导致数千人死亡。
“Three days ago, they said that anybody who’s been to West Africa would have to provide a doctor’s certificate stating that they don’t have Ebola,” said Gareth Johnson of Young Pioneer Tours, a travel operator based in China. “And then today, they just said no foreign tourists at all.”
“三天前，他们说所有去过西非的人必须提供医生的证明，说明他们未携带埃博拉，”位于中国的青年先锋旅行社(Young Pioneer Tours)的工作人员加雷思·约翰逊(Gareth Johnson)说。“到了今天，他们干脆说不接待任何外国游客。”
Mr. Johnson said that he had received the notice from his North Korean partners and that one of his tour guides who was visiting the North with a group of foreign tourists had also confirmed it through the authorities there. Mr. Johnson said his company had to cancel its plans to take a group of 20 tourists to the North on Monday.
约翰逊表示，他是从朝鲜合作伙伴那里收到通知的，而且他手下的一名导游也从朝鲜当局那里证实了这一消息。这名导游正带领一个外国游客团在朝鲜观光。约翰逊说，他的公司不得不取消了下周一带领由20名游客组成的一个旅行团前往朝鲜的计划。
He said the ban on entry for foreign tourists applied to all of North Korea. Mr. Johnson called it a “complete blanket ban,” regardless of a foreign tourist’s origin. David Thompson of Juche Travel Services in London said his company was contacting all customers who have booked North Korean tours in the coming months. “At the moment, we do not know when the country will reopen its border to tourism,” he said.
他说，禁止外国游客入境的指令适用于朝鲜全境。约翰逊称其为不考虑游客来源地的“全面禁令”。伦敦自主旅行社(Juche Travel Services)的戴维·汤普森(David Thompson)表示，他的公司正在联系预订了未来几个月赴朝旅行的所有顾客。“目前，我们不知道朝鲜何时重新向旅游业开放边境，”他说。
Nick Bonner at Koryo Tours, another China-based company that offers tours to North Korea, confirmed the ban but said it was still unclear whether North Korea was trying to ban all tourists or only those from regions that have had an Ebola outbreak.
位于中国的另一家提供赴朝旅游服务的公司高丽旅行社(Koryo Tours)的尼克·博纳(Nick Bonner)证实了该禁令，但表示尚不清楚朝鲜是试图禁止所有游客，还是只禁止那些来自埃博拉疫区的游客。
Both Mr. Johnson and Mr. Bonner said they were not sure whether the ban would also affect foreign diplomats or businesspeople.
约翰逊和博纳均表示，不确定禁令是否也会波及外交官或外国商人。