SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea said on Monday that it was unlikely to provide humanitarian aid to tens of thousands of flood survivors in North Korea even if the country asked for help, reaffirming its hard-line stance after the North’s fifth nuclear test.
韩国首尔——韩国本周一表示，他们不太可能为朝鲜数万名洪水灾民提供人道主义援​助，即使朝鲜向他们提出这种请求的话，这番话是韩国在朝鲜第五次核试验后的强硬立场的重申。
North Korea has mobilized soldiers and workers in internal relief efforts for an estimated 140,000 victims in its northern provinces after torrential rains last month caused what it has described as some of the worst flooding in its history. International relief agencies like the United Nations World Food Program have also sent food and other assistance and have appealed for millions of dollars in international donations.
上月的暴雨导致朝鲜北部省份约14万民众受灾，朝鲜称其这次洪灾是该国历史上最严重的之一，并动员了士兵和工人参与国内的救援工作。联合国世界粮食计划署(United Nations World Food Program)等国际救援机构也向朝鲜提供了食品和其他援助，并呼吁国际社会捐助数以百万美元计的资金。
On Monday, the South Korean government said it would not help.
周一，韩国政府表示不会提供援助。
“North Korea has not asked for help, and we don’t expect it to,” Jeong Joon-hee, a spokesman for the South’s Unification Ministry, said during a news briefing. “Even if it does, I think, given the present situation, that the possibility of providing aid is low.”
“朝鲜并没有请求帮助，我们也不指望他们那么做，”韩国统一部发言人郑浚熙(Jeong Joon-hee)在新闻发布会上说。 “即使他们求助，我认为，从目前的情况来看，我们提供援助的可能性也不大。”
News of flooding and extensive damage in the impoverished North has prompted many in the South to call for sending humanitarian aid.
洪水以及贫困的朝鲜大面积受灾的消息传出后，许多韩国人都呼吁为其提供人道主义援​​助。
Despite North Korea’s frequent military provocations and its pursuit of nuclear weapons, the suffering of ordinary citizens often elicits sympathy in the South. The South’s Constitution includes North Korea in its territory and calls for “national unity” through “humanitarianism and brotherly love.”
尽管朝鲜频繁进行军事挑衅，开展核武器试验，但普通民众的苦难往往会在韩国引起人们的同情。韩国宪法把朝鲜包括在自己的领土范围内，并呼吁以“人道主义和兄弟间的爱”实现“民族团结”。
The flooding hit near North Korea’s border with China, the poorest region in the country, only weeks before the start of winter.
这次洪水袭击了朝鲜靠近中国边境的地区，那是朝鲜最穷的地区，洪水发生的时间距冬季的到来只有几周。
Mr. Jeong said on Monday that North Korea was not helping itself by conducting a costly nuclear test this month as its people were suffering from the floods. The nuclear test, the fifth by the North and its second this year, has prompted South Korea and its main ally, the United States, to call for a new round of tougher sanctions.
郑浚熙表示，在自己的人民遭受洪灾之际，朝鲜仍在本月进行了一次昂贵的核试验，这对该国毫无益处。最近这次核试验是朝鲜的第5次，也是今年的第2次，这次试验导致韩国及其主要盟友美国呼吁对朝鲜进行新一轮更加严厉的制裁。