JINDO, South Korea — With South Korea preoccupied by a ferry disaster, North Korea has increased activities at its main nuclear test site, prompting Seoul and Washington to prepare for a possible nuclear test from the North, the South Korean Defense Ministry said on Tuesday.
韩国珍岛——正当韩国全国上下沉浸在一起沉船事故的悲伤中时，朝鲜增加了在其主要核试验场地的活动，这使首尔和华盛顿为朝鲜可能会进行核试验而做准备，韩国国防部(South Korean Defense Ministry)周二称。
The report came as President Obama was nearing the start of a trip later this week to Japan and South Korea, where he was expected to discuss with regional leaders how to deal with the North Korean nuclear threats.
这一消息传来的时候，正是奥巴马总统(President Obama)旅行即将开始之际，他将于本周下半周访问日本和韩国，预计他将会与区域领导人一起讨论如何应对朝鲜核威胁的问题。
“We have detected various types of activities at Punggye-ri,” a Defense Ministry spokesman, Kim Min-seok, said on Tuesday, referring to the place in northeastern North Korea where the country has conducted three underground nuclear tests since 2006, with the latest occurring in February 2013.
韩国国防部发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)周二说，“我们已经侦察到在丰溪里出现的频繁活动，”他指的是位于朝鲜东北部的一个地方，自2006年以来，朝鲜已经在该地进行过3次地下核试验，最近的一次是在2013年2月。
Mr. Kim said the United States and South Korea had heightened their combined surveillance and intelligence-gathering efforts to prepare for a possible nuclear test from the North. The South Korean military activated a special crisis management task force on Monday morning, he said.
金珉奭说，美国和韩国已经加强了联合监视和情报收集工作，以做好应对朝鲜可能进行核试验的准备。他说，韩国军队已于周一启动了特种危机管理工作小组。
South Korea and international analysts have recently said that satellite imagery showed continuing activities at the North’s nuclear test site, but they reported no signs that a test was imminent. The South Korean Defense Ministry had said that a new nuclear test by North Korea was a “political” rather than technical decision, with its engineers ready to conduct one on relatively short notice from its leader, Kim Jong-un.
韩国以及国际分析人士最近表示，卫星图像显示，在朝鲜的核试验场地有持续活动出现，但他们的报告没给出有测试在即的迹象。韩国国防部曾说，朝鲜进行下次核试验是一个“政治”而非技术性的决定，因为朝鲜的工程师已经做好准备，可以在该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)下令之后，在相对较短的时间内进行核试验。
The fact that the South Korean military activated an emergency task force meant that it took the North’s most recent activities more seriously. The national news agency Yonhap quoted an anonymous government official as saying that the North had placed a large screen at the entrance of a tunnel in Punggye-ri, possibly to thwart Western spy satellites watching the site.
韩国军队启动危机管理小组的事实说明，韩国更认真地对待朝鲜最近的活动。韩国国家通讯社韩联社(Yonhap)援引一个未具名的政府官员的话说，朝鲜在丰溪里一个地下隧道入口处设置了一个大屏障，可能是为了防止西方间谍卫星侦察该处的活动。
Similar activities were reported ahead of the test in February last year, but the North Korean regime is also known for staging such activities to draw international attention and force Washington and Seoul to engage it with dialogue and grant it concessions.
去年2月朝鲜进行核试验之前，有过类似活动的报道，但人们也知道，朝鲜政府会策划这类活动以吸引国际社会的注意力，迫使华盛顿和首尔与其进行对话，对其做出让步。
The official told Yonhap that vehicle activities also sharply increased in Punggye-ri, probably to bring equipment for communications and for recording seismic waves. But the final signs of an imminent test — such as sealing a tunnel with concrete or soil — were not detected, the official said.
上述官员告诉韩联社，丰溪里的车辆活动也大为增加，可能是在把通信设备和记录地震波的仪器运进去。但该官员说，尚未侦察到测试即将发生的最后迹象，比如用水泥或土封住隧道口。
“North Korea wants attention ahead of Obama’s visit,” said Lee Byong-chul, senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul.
“朝鲜想在奥巴马访问亚洲之前受到关注，”首尔和平与合作研究所(Institute for Peace and Cooperation)高级研究员李炳哲(Lee Byong-chul)说。
Six-nation talks on ending North Korea’s nuclear weapons program collapsed in 2009. Recent efforts to revive them have stalled over differences between Washington and Pyongyang over what actions the North needed to take before such negotiations could resume.
旨在终止朝鲜核武器项目的六方会谈在2009年崩溃。重启六方会谈的近期努力，由于华盛顿与平壤在重启会谈之前朝鲜需要做出那些行动的问题上存在分歧而搁浅。
Mr. Lee said another nuclear test by North Korea “would add fuel to the fire” among South Koreans who were already troubled by the ferry disaster.
李炳哲说，朝鲜再次进行核试验，对沉浸在轮船灾难痛苦中的韩国人来说，是“愁上添愁”。
In waters off Jindo Island, near the southwestern corner of South Korea, divers were continuing their grim efforts to enter an overturned and submerged ferry to bring out bodies. The ship tilted and sank on Wednesday with 476 people on board. Officials counted 174 survivors and 104 deaths. Nearly 200 remained missing, making the incident one of the worst disasters in South Korean history.
在韩国西南角珍岛附近的水域中，潜水员们在继续着他们令人沮丧的工作：进入倾覆并已彻底沉入水中的渡轮，把更多的尸体打捞上来。这艘船在上周三侧翻后沉入水中，船上有476名乘客和船员。官方数字是174人幸存，104人死亡。还有近200人失踪，使这次事故成为韩国历史上最重大的灾难之一。
Fears of a fourth nuclear test by the North have increased since late last month, when North Korea threatened to carry out a “new form” of nuclear test. Washington and its allies have warned that another nuclear test by the North would only bring more international sanctions against the country. North Korea is already under heavy sanctions for its previous tests of nuclear devices and long-range missile technology.
自从上月底朝鲜威胁要进行一次“新形式”的核试验以来，人们对朝鲜进行第四次核试验的担心开始增长。美国及其盟国已经警告说，朝鲜再次进行核试验，将会给该国带来更多国际制裁。因其以前的核试验和远程导弹技术测试，朝鲜已经受到了严重的制裁。
Washington and its allies have long suspected North Korea of trying to make nuclear devices small and sophisticated enough to be delivered by the intercontinental ballistic missiles it was also developing. It remained unclear how close the North had come to that goal, although it claimed after its last nuclear test that it had “diversified” and “miniaturized” its nuclear weapons.
美国及其盟国早就怀疑朝鲜在试图制造更小、更高级的核武器，以至于能用其也在研发的洲际弹道导弹来运载。虽然朝鲜在上次核试验后曾宣称，已将其核武器“多样化”和“微型化”，但人们还不清楚朝鲜离上述目标有多远。
Following the test in February last year, relations on the divided Korean Peninsula plunged to their chilliest in years, with the North and the South trading threats of attack. The tensions eased in the second half of last year. But they rose again starting in February of this year, when the United States and South Korea conducted their annual joint military drills and North Korea test-launched a series of short- and midrange missiles off its east coast.
去年2月核试验之后，分裂的朝鲜半岛两侧的关系降温至多年来最冰冷的程度，朝鲜和韩国相互交换了攻击的威胁。去年下半年，紧张局势有所缓解。但是今年2月，随着美国和韩国进行一年一度的联合军事演习，朝鲜在其东部沿海地区进行了一系列中短程导弹测试，朝韩局势再度紧张。
North Korea is believed to have used some of its small stockpile of plutonium in its first two tests in 2006 and 2009. The North had produced plutonium from spent fuel from its once-mothballed nuclear reactor, which the North is believed to have recently restarted.
朝鲜在2006年和2009年进行的头两次核试验中，据信使用了其储量不多的钚的一部分。朝鲜曾从其一度关闭的核反应堆的乏燃料中提炼钚，人们认为朝鲜最近重启了该反应堆。
North Korea is also running a uranium enrichment program, first unveiled in 2010, that officials and analysts in the region fear will provide the country with a steady supply of fuel for nuclear tests and bombs. After the North’s last underground nuclear test in February last year, analysts could not determine whether the North used highly enriched uranium for fuel. They said that by the “new form of nuclear test,” North Korea may mean a test of a uranium bomb.
朝鲜也一直在进行一个铀浓缩项目，外界是在2010年得知这个项目的，区域官员和分析人士担心，铀浓缩项目将能不断地为朝鲜的核试验和核武器提供燃料。去年2月朝鲜进行地下核试验之后，分析人士未能确定朝鲜是否使用了浓缩铀作为燃料。他们称，朝鲜所谓的“新形式核试验”，可能指的是铀弹的试验。