North Korea fired three short-range projectiles off its east coast on Thursday, a day after it warned of retaliation against an American comedy film involving a plot to kill its leader, Kim Jong-un.
朝鲜周四向其东部沿海海域发射了3枚短程投射物，一天前朝鲜曾警告要对美国一部涉及暗杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的喜剧影片进行报复。
The projectiles took off from near Wonsan, a coastal town east of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew 190 kilometers, or 118 miles, before landing in waters between North Korea and Japan, said a spokesman at the Ministry of National Defense in South Korea.
韩国国防部(Ministry of National Defense)一名发言人说，这些投射物发自沿海城市元山市，该市位于首都平壤东部，投射物飞行了190公里后，落入朝鲜与日本之间的海中。
“We are analyzing our data to try to figure out what type of projectiles they were and why the North fired them,” he said, speaking on customary condition of anonymity, citing ministry policy. “Our military has increased its monitoring activities in case the North should fire more projectiles.”
这名发言人说，“我们正在分析数据，以确定这些投射物的类型，以及朝鲜发射它们的原因。我军已经增加了监视活动，以备朝鲜发射更多的投射物。”这名发言人援引国防部政策，按照惯例要求匿名。
North Korea often fires short-range missiles or rockets off its east coast during military exercises or when it wants to raise tensions, analysts say.
分析人士说，朝鲜经常在军事演习或想加剧紧张局势时，发射短程导弹或火箭。
It remained unclear whether the firings on Thursday were linked to the North’s threat on Wednesday that it would take “a decisive and merciless countermeasure” unless Washington stopped the release of “The Interview,” a Columbia Pictures movie scheduled to open in October.
还不清楚朝鲜周四的这次发射是否与其在周三发出的威胁有关，朝鲜在周三称，如果华盛顿不叫停哥伦比亚电影公司(Columbia Pictures)计划要在10月份上映的电影《采访》(The Interview)的话，会采取“果断而无情的对策”。
The movie features a fictional scenario in which an American talk show host and his producer visit North Korea for an interview with Mr. Kim and plot with the Central Intelligence Agency to assassinate him.
这部影片的一个主要虚拟剧情是，一位美国脱口秀节目的主持人和他的制片人要到朝鲜去采访金正恩，他们与中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)密谋将其暗杀。
North Korea said it would consider the release of the film “an act of war.”
朝鲜称，将把这一影片的上映视为“战争行为”。
Pyongyang has raised regional tensions in recent months by launching a series of short- and medium-range rockets and missiles and threatening to conduct a new nuclear test.
近几个月来，平壤多次发射中短程火箭和导弹，并威胁称要进行一次新的核试验，已经加剧了地区紧张局势。
On March 22, North Korea test-fired 30 short-range rockets off its east coast.
朝鲜曾在今年3月22日在其东海岸测试了30枚短程火箭。