SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea announced on Tuesday that Feb. 8, the day before the Winter Olympics open in South Korea, will be a national holiday honoring its army, raising the possibility that it will hold a large military parade in a show of force on the eve of the Games.
韩国首尔——周二，朝鲜宣布2月8日，也就是韩国冬奥会开幕前一天，将成为国定假日，向该国的军队致敬，这提高了朝鲜可能会在冬奥会前夕举行大阅兵展示武力的可能性。
In recent weeks, South Korean officials have observed signs that the North, which is sending athletes to the Olympics, might be preparing for such a parade in its capital, Pyongyang, including large gatherings of troops and vehicles.
近几周，韩国官员已经观察到了朝鲜可能正在平壤为此类阅兵式做准备的迹象，其中包括军队和车辆的大集结。朝鲜将派运动员参加此次冬奥会。
The North’s official Korean Central News Agency said on Tuesday that Feb. 8 would be commemorated as the country’s new Army Building Day. That holiday had previously been observed on April 25, the date when the North’s founding leader, Kim Il-sung, was said to have founded a guerrilla unit in 1932 to resist Japanese colonial rule.
朝鲜官方的朝中社周二表示，2月8日将被作为该国新的建军节来庆祝。此前的建军节日期为4月25日，据说这是朝鲜创始领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)在1932年建立了一支游击小分队，抵御日本殖民统治的日子。
Though the North has long said that its regular army was founded on Feb. 8, 1948, until now it had treated that date as less significant than April 25. This Feb. 8 will mark 70 years since the army’s founding, a milestone anniversary of the kind that North Korea often observes with enormous military parades, featuring columns of goose-stepping soldiers, tanks and missiles.
尽管朝鲜长期以来表示其正规军队是在1948年2月8日成立的，但在此之前，该国对这个日子的重视程度远不如4月25日。今年的2月8日将是该国军队成立70周年的日子，朝鲜常常会用大型阅兵式庆祝此类具有里程碑意义的纪念日，展示踢着正步的士兵、坦克和导弹方阵。
Before the announcement on Tuesday, Paektu Cultural Exchange, an organization that arranges North Korea tours, had been advertising a trip to Pyongyang that it said could include watching a “rare military parade” on Feb. 8. “According to our contacts, it is highly probable that there will be a military parade on this day, however no one can guarantee these types of events until the morning of the possible parade date,” its brochure said.
在周二的宣布前，安排赴朝旅游的白头文化交流公司(Paektu Cultural Exchange)已经在广告里称，前往平壤旅游可能会包括在2月8日观看一次“难得一见的阅兵”。该组织的旅游宣传册上写着，“据我司得到的消息，当天很可能会举行阅兵式，不过，没人能对这样的活动打包票，要到可能举行阅兵的当天早上才知道。”
Paektu Cultural Exchange, which says it is a nonprofit social enterprise, is run by Michael Spavor, a Canadian who has long-running business ties in North Korea. He is one of the few foreigners to have met with Kim Jong-un since Mr. Kim became the North’s leader.
白头文化交流公司说自己是一个非营利性社会实体，由加拿大人迈克尔·斯帕沃尔(Michael Spavor)运营，他与朝鲜有着多年的生意关系。自金正恩成为朝鲜领导人以来，斯帕沃尔是为数不多的几个曾与其见过面的外国人之一。
Pyongyang’s statement on Tuesday did not mention a parade, but it said that the North would “significantly mark” the new Army Building Day with “diverse events” every year.
平壤在周二发表的声明没有提及阅兵，但表示朝鲜会“隆重庆祝”这个新的建军节，而且每年都会为了建军节举行“各种活动”。
The South Korean Defense Ministry said on Tuesday that it was closely monitoring signs that the North might be planning a parade.
周二，韩国国防部表示将密切关注朝鲜可能计划阅兵的迹象。
If held, a military parade would be the North’s first since Mr. Kim claimed on New Year’s Day that the country had finished building a nuclear force, including missiles capable of reaching the mainland United States. Rolling out the country’s new intercontinental ballistic missiles, or ICBMs, during a parade would keep the North’s nuclear threat in the spotlight amid the celebrations surrounding the Games, analysts said.
一旦举行，这将是自金正恩在元旦声称该国已经完成核力量建设，包括能打击美国本土的导弹后，朝鲜的首次阅兵仪式。分析人士说，围绕着冬奥会举行的各种庆祝中，在阅兵式上展示这个国家的新型洲际弹道导弹（又称ICBM），将让朝鲜的核威胁获得大量关注。
“It can keep its people from looking enviously at the Olympics in the South, rallying the loyalty of its people and officials by reminding them that although the North may lag behind the South economically, it is ahead of South Korea militarily,” said Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute in South Korea.
“它可以防止朝鲜人民以羡慕的眼光看待韩国的冬奥会，重新激励起该国民众和官员的忠诚，提醒他们尽管朝鲜在经济上落后于韩国，但在军事方面领先，”韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)高级分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说。
North Korea, which before this month had not expressed interest in joining the Olympics in the city of Pyeongchang, plans to send 22 athletes, along with hundreds of musicians, dancers and cheerleaders. The two Koreas have agreed that their athletes will march together at the opening ceremony with a single flag symbolizing a unified Korea. They will also field the first unified Korean team in the Olympics, a women’s ice hockey team.
本月前，朝鲜还没有表达出要参加平昌冬奥会的兴趣，如今则计划派22名运动员与数以百计的音乐人、舞蹈演员和拉拉队员参加。朝韩同意在开幕式上，双方运动员将在同一面旗帜下共同入场，该旗帜象征着朝鲜半岛统一。两国还将组成奥运会上首个联合运动队——一支女子冰球队。
On Tuesday, a team of South Korean officials went to the North for logistical preparations at tourist and ski resorts where the two sides have agreed to hold pre-Olympic cultural events and train non-Olympic skiers together. A team of North Korean officials finished a similar trip to the South on Monday, to review potential venues for performances by North Korean artists.
周二，一组韩国官员前往朝鲜，在旅游和滑雪胜地进行后勤准备工作，双方同意在那些地方举办奥运会前的文化活动，开展联合滑雪训练。周一，一组朝鲜官员结束了类似的韩国之行，视察朝鲜艺术家的表演场地。
President Moon Jae-in and other South Koreans have welcomed the North’s participation in the Games as an opportunity to ease the tensions that have built up over the last year over Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons program. But that sentiment is far from unanimous in the South, where others see it as a bid by Mr. Kim to weaken international unity on sanctions against the North, and to turn the Games into what conservative critics are disdainfully calling the “Pyongyang Olympics.”
韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)等韩方人士对朝鲜参加奥运会表示欢迎，认为这是缓解因去年平壤核计划所致紧张局势的一个机会。不过，韩国国内对此观点不一，有些人认为，金正恩的目的在于削弱国际社会对制裁朝鲜的一致态度，将本届奥运会变成保守派批评人士蔑称的“平壤奥运会”。
Mr. Moon’s office addressed the criticism on Tuesday, calling for the nation to unite in favor of a successful Games. “We don’t understand why they label the Games the ‘Pyongyang Olympics,’” Park Soo-hyun, a presidential spokesman, said in a televised statement. Rather, he said, they should be called the Pyeonghwa, or peace, Olympics.
周二，文在寅的办公室对这种批评做出了回应，呼吁全国团结起来，共同支持奥运会取得成功。“我们不明白他们为什么要把本届奥运会称为‘平壤奥运会’”，总统的发言人朴洙贤(Park Soo-hyun)在电视声明中说。他说，应该称为“和平奥运会”。
North Korea also lashed out, calling the Games’ conservative critics in the South “human scum” and accusing them of “unpardonable atrocities.”
朝鲜也做出了猛烈抨击，称韩国的保守派奥运会批评人士是“人间渣滓”，指责他们犯下了“天怒人怨的野蛮罪行”。
“If these traitors and psychopaths defaming the dignified Korean nation are allowed to go scot free, the national reconciliation, unity and the building of a reunified powerful country will be delayed so much,” said a statement carried by the Korean Central News Agency.
朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)发表的一份声明称：“不铲除本性难移的民族叛徒、抹黑朝鲜民族尊严的神经错乱者，面向民族和解与团结、建设统一强国的步伐就会推迟。”
Japan’s foreign minister, Taro Kono, said on Tuesday that the talks with North Korea over the Olympics would not lead to a softening of international resolve against Pyongyang’s nuclear program. He said the North had a track record of engaging in dialogue only to disregard any agreements and continue its pursuit of nuclear arms.
日本外务大臣河野太郎(Taro Kono)周二表示，与朝鲜就奥运会举行的会谈不会削弱国际社会制裁平壤核计划的决心。他表示，朝鲜以前就做过举行对话却又无视任何达成的协议，并且继续发展核武器的事情。
“So you cannot talk them out of it,” Mr. Kono said in an interview. “You just have to put the pressure on them so that they just see there is no bright future on the current course.”
“所以，你是不可能说服他们的，”河野太郎在接受采访时说。“你必须给他们施加压力，让他们看到，当前的道路没有光明的未来。”