SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea fired a ballistic missile early Tuesday that soared over Japan, the South Korean military said.
韩国首尔——韩国军方称，朝鲜周二清晨再次发射一枚弹道导弹，导弹飞越了日本上空。
It was the second time in four days that the North Korean authorities, defying an escalation in international sanctions and warnings from President Trump, had launched a missile. Three short-range missiles were launched on Saturday.
这是朝鲜四天里第二次不顾国际制裁的升级和特朗普总统的警告发射导弹。周六，朝鲜发射了三枚短程导弹。
The missile fired on Tuesday took off from near Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew to the east, according to the South Korean military, which added that officials were analyzing the data to determine what type of missile was launched.
据韩国军方称，周二发射的导弹从朝鲜首都平壤附近升空，飞往东边。韩国军方还表示，官方正在对数据进行分析，以确定所发射导弹的类型。
The Japanese government sent a text alert to citizens about the launch and advised them to take protective cover.
日本政府就此次发射向民众发出了预警短信，建议他们寻找掩体保护自己。
The missile flew over Hokkaido island in northern Japan, South Korean and Japanese officials said. North Korea had previously launched projectiles over Japan in 1998 in 2009. The North claimed that both rockets were carrying a satellite payload.
韩国和日本官方称，导弹飞经日本北部的北海道上空。此前在1998年和2009年，朝鲜也曾发射过飞越日本上空的抛射体，并宣称两枚火箭都搭载着卫星。
In a statement posted on the Twitter account of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the government confirmed that the missile was fired at 5:58 a.m. local time, before breaking into three pieces and landing about 730 miles off the coast Cape Erimo of Hokkaido around 6:12 am.
在日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的Twitter账号发布的一份声明中，政府证实导弹于当地时间清晨5点58分发射，之后解体成三部分，最终于6点12分在距离北海道襟裳岬海岸大约730英里（约合1180公里）的地方落下。
“We will collect information quickly and take all the measures to protect people’s life,” Mr. Abe said in a brief statement.
“我们会尽快收集信息，并采取一切措施保护民众的生命安全，”安倍在一份简短声明中说。
A short time later, Yoshihide Suga, Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, called the launch “an unprecedented, serious and grave threat to our nation.”
不久后，日本官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)称此次发射是“我国受到的一个史无前例、严重、严峻的威胁”。
In Washington, the Pentagon said that “we can confirm that the missile launched by North Korea flew over Japan. We are still in the process of assessing this launch. North American Aerospace Defense Command determined the missile launch from North Korea did not pose a threat to North America.”
在华盛顿，五角大楼称“我们能证实的是，朝鲜发射的导弹飞经日本上空。我们仍在对此次发射进行评估。北美防空司令部(North American Aerospace Defense Command)断定朝鲜此次导弹发射未对北美构成威胁。”
Earlier this month, North Korea had threatened to launch four of its Hwasong-12 intermediate-range ballistic missiles in a “historic enveloping fire” around Guam, home to major American Air Force and Navy bases. The North at the time said the missiles would fly over southern Japanese provinces on their way toward Guam.
本月早些时候，朝鲜威胁要发射四枚火星-12(Hwasong-12)中程弹道导弹，让美国主要的空军和海军基地所在的关岛周围陷入一片“有历史意义的火海”。当时，朝鲜称导弹会在飞往关岛途中飞经日本南部地区。
That threat, together with Mr. Trump’s warning that the United States would bring down “fire and fury” if the North didn’t stand down, has significantly raised tensions in the region. But the anxiety had appeared to ease somewhat after the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, later said he would wait a while, watching the United States behavior, before deciding whether to approve his military’s plan to launch missiles toward Guam.
这一威胁，连同特朗普如果朝鲜不停下来美国便会发出“炮火与怒火”的警告，导致本地区的紧张关系大幅升级。但后来，在朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)称他会等等，看美国的表现再决定是否批准他领导的军队朝关岛发射导弹的计划后，这种焦虑似乎有所缓解。
But the missile tests on Saturday dampened hopes in Seoul and Washington that North Korea would restrain from weapons tests to help pave the way for possible dialogue.
但周六的导弹试验浇灭了首尔和华盛顿的希望。它们本以为朝鲜会停止武器试验，以便帮助为可能的对话铺平道路。
North Korea has conducted more than 80 missile tests since Mr. Kim came to power in late 2011, after the death of his father, but it has never sent any of those missiles over Japan.
自金正恩在2011年底其父去世后上台以来，朝鲜已进行了80多次导弹试验，但这些导弹从未飞经日本上空。
Even when it flight-tested an intercontinental ballistic missile on July 28, it was launched at a highly lofted angle so that the missile reached an altitude of 2,300 miles but only flew 998 horizontal miles, falling in waters between the North and Japan. The North said at the time that it did so in order not to send its missile over a neighbor. Thus, the missile test on Tuesday was considered an especially bold move.
即便是7月28日试飞一枚洲际弹道导弹时，导弹的发射角度也非常高，导致导弹的飞行高度达到了2300英里（约合3700公里），但水平飞行距离仅为998英里（约合1600公里），最后坠入朝鲜与日本之间的海域。朝鲜当时称这么做是为了不让导弹飞越邻国上空。因此，周二的导弹试验被认为是一个十分大胆的举动。
Along with South Korea, Japan and Guam would likely be the first targets of a North Korean attack should war break out on the Korean Peninsula, analysts said. Both are home to major American military bases, which will become key launching pads for American forces in the event of war in Korea.
分析人士称，如果朝鲜半岛爆发战争，和韩国一样，日本和关岛可能也会成为朝鲜最先攻击的目标。两地都有美国的军事基地，如果爆发战争，它们会成为美军重要的出发地点。
Last week, American and South Korean forces began twice-yearly war games aimed at preparing for a possible attack by the North. The games continue until the end of August. North Korea has long called the exercise a provocation and a rehearsal for an invasion. The Kim government has previously responded with missile or other weapons tests.
上周，美韩军队开始进行一年两次的军事演习，为朝鲜可能发起的攻击做准备。演习将持续到8月底。朝鲜向来称该演习是挑衅，是对侵略的排练。金正恩政府此前就用导弹或其他武器试验的方式回应过。