SEOUL, South Korea — The No. 2 leader of North Korea’s military was recently executed as a “traitor” for showing disrespect for its top leader, Kim Jong-un, South Korean intelligence officials told lawmakers here Wednesday.
韩国首尔——韩国情报官员周三在这里告诉国会议员们，朝鲜军方二号人物最近被处决，他因对朝鲜最高领导人金正恩显示不敬而被判犯有“叛国罪”。
Gen. Hyon Yong-chol, the minister of the People’s Armed Forces, was believed to have been executed with an antiaircraft gun in Pyongyang, the North’s capital, around April 30, National Intelligence Service officials told South Korean lawmakers during a closed parliamentary session.
国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)官员在韩国议会的一次闭们会议上对国会议员说，朝鲜人民武装力量部部长玄永哲大将据认已于4月30日前后在首都平壤被用高射炮处决。
Mr. Kim deemed General Hyon disloyal after he dozed off during military events and second-guessed Mr. Kim’s orders, the intelligence officials were quoted as saying by two lawmakers at the session. General Hyon, who is considered second in the military hierarchy only to Vice Marshal Hwang Pyong-so, has disappeared from North Korea’s state-run news media since late April.
参加了上述会议的两名议员援引情报官员的话说，玄永哲在参加朝军活动时打盹，还与金正日顶嘴，因此金正恩认为玄永哲不忠。玄永哲被认为是朝军二号人物，地位仅次于黄炳誓次帅，玄永哲自从4月下旬以来就没有在朝鲜的国家新闻媒体上出现过。
The National Intelligence Service referred any queries from the news media to the two lawmakers, Lee Cheol-woo and Shin Kyoung-min.
韩国国家情报院让新闻媒体把所有问题提给了那两位国会议员，李喆雨(Lee Cheol-woo)和辛京珉(Shin Kyong-min)。
Mr. Kim has been terrorizing North Korea’s elites with executions and purges as he has struggled to establish his authority since the death of his father, the dictator Kim Jong-il, in 2011.
自从金正恩的父亲金正日2011年去世以来，金正恩为了努力树立自己的权威，一直在用处决和清洗等方式让朝鲜精英们人心惶惶。
It was not clear how the South Korean spy agency acquired information on General Hyon’s supposed execution. Last month, the agency told the parliamentary intelligence committee that North Korea had executed 15 high-ranking government officials this year.
韩国情报机构如何获得玄永哲的所谓被处决的消息，目前尚不清楚。上个月，该机构曾告知议会情报委员会，朝鲜今年已处决了15名高级政府官员。
Information the spy agency has provided during closed parliamentary hearings has been considered reliable. But analysts caution that gathering verifiable data on the inner workings of the North’s government is difficult.
该情报机​​构以前在议员的闭们听证会上提供的信息被认为是可靠的。但分析人士警告说，收集有关朝鲜政府内部运作的可证实数据很困难。
When Mr. Kim’s father died, South Korean intelligence officials were not aware of it until Pyongyang announced the news two days later.
金正恩的父亲去世时，韩国情报官员一直不知道，直到平壤在两天后宣布了消息。
Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute in South Korea, warned that the spy agency was publicizing “unverified intelligence” on the supposed execution of General Hyon and said that prudent analysts should wait for more solid evidence.
韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)高级分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)警告说，国家情报院对玄永哲被执行所谓的处决在公布“未经证实的情报”，他还说，谨慎的分析人员应该等待更多的可靠证据。
“If he was really executed before other officials in late April, North Korea by now would have erased all his images from old documentary footage being broadcast on the North Korean TV, but that apparently has not happened yet,” Mr. Cheong said.
郑相昌说，“如果他真的是在四月下旬，在其他官员面前被处决，到现在，朝鲜会早已会将他所有的形象从朝鲜电视上播出的旧纪录片中删除掉，但这显然还没有发生。”
The spy agency has in the past been accused of leaking shocking news about North Korea to unsettle its government or divert attention from domestic scandals. In recent weeks, the South Korean government has been rocked by the North’s test of a submarine-launched missile and a domestic bribery scandal that led to the resignation of the prime minister.
过去曾有人指控该情报机​​构，为了动摇朝鲜政府、或转移人们对韩国国内丑闻的注意力，泄露有关朝鲜的令人震惊的消息。在最近几周里，韩国政府被朝鲜测试从潜艇上发射导弹、以及国内导致总理辞职的贿赂丑闻所震动。
South Korean officials said North Korea’s leader, believed to be in his early 30s, was resorting to a mix of terror and rewards to thwart any challenge to his leadership. He was believed to have ordered the execution of 68 senior officials from 2012 to last year, according to the South Korean spy agency. The reasons given included failure to follow through with Mr. Kim’s orders or raising questions about his decisions.
韩国官员说，据信年龄为30岁出头的朝鲜领导人，为了挫败对其领导力的任何挑战，采取了恐怖和奖励相结合的手段。据韩国情报机构的说法，金正恩据认从2012年到去年，已下令处决了68名高级官员。处决的理由包括没有执行金正日的命令，或对他的决定提出疑问。
In 2013, an uncle of Mr. Kim’s, Jang Song-thaek, long considered the second most powerful man in North Korea, was executed, accused of stealing state funds and plotting to overthrow Mr. Kim.
2013年，金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)被处决，在很长的时间里，张成泽曾被认为是朝鲜的二号人物，他被指控盗窃国家资金，并阴谋推翻金正恩。
General Hyon has been one of many generals whose fortunes have appeared to be fluctuate to Mr. Kim’s whim. The general’s status seemed to soar in 2012, when he became vice marshal as chief of the general staff of the North Korean People’s Army.
玄永哲看来是命运随着金正恩的心血来潮而涨落的众多将领之一。玄永哲的地位似乎在2012年腾飞，那年他以次帅的军衔成为朝鲜人民军总参谋长。