SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea likes to call South Korea a land of “political filth” and its leaders, including President Park Geun-hye, “human trash.” Now, apparently to highlight its contempt, it has begun sending balloons into the South loaded with an unusual payload, the police here said on Thursday: cigarette butts.
韩国首尔——朝鲜喜欢说韩国是一个充满“政治污秽”的国家，说包括朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在内的韩国领导人是“人渣”。警方周四称，似乎是为了强调这种鄙夷，朝鲜现在开始向韩国放飞气球，上面搭载的东西颇为少见：烟头。
North and South Korea have escalated their propaganda war across their heavily armed border since Jan. 6, when the North conducted its fourth nuclear test.
自1月6日朝鲜进行第四次核试验以来，两国在重兵把守的边境附近开展的宣传战也加剧了。
The South turned on high-powered loudspeakers to blare pop songs and harsh criticism of the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, across the border. The North began sending balloons into the South loaded with leaflets.
韩国打开了大功率喇叭，向边境对面播放流行歌曲和对朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的严厉批评。朝鲜则开始向韩国放飞携有传单的气球。
The balloons were timed to detonate their payloads, scattering thousands of messages that, among other things, called Ms. Park a “filthy president.”
气球会定时爆炸，撒下数千份传单。传单上的内容包括称朴槿惠是一个“卑劣的总统”。
Some of the timers failed to function, however, and the airborne cargo crashed onto rooftops and cars in South Korean villages near the border. Inspecting the debris, military and police personnel discovered that the balloons’ payloads included things they had not seen before.
然而，一些定时器坏了，传单在边境附近的韩国村庄里撞上了屋顶和汽车。检查残骸时，军方和警方的人员发现，气球里有些东西是以前没见到过的。
“We can confirm that they included cigarette butts,” Kim Hak-young, a chief superintendent of the police, said Thursday, though he declined to provide any details.
“我们能确认里面包括烟头，”总警长金学永（Kim Hak-young，音）说。不过他并未透露任何细节。
The police and the Defense Ministry until Thursday had refused to confirm a news report earlier in the week that some North Korean balloons were carrying trash, including used toilet paper.
周四之前，警方和国防部一直拒绝证实本周早些时候的一篇新闻报道。报道称朝鲜的一些气球里装的是垃圾，包括用过的厕纸。
The Korea JoongAng Daily newspaper reported Tuesday that that discovery had alarmed South Korean officials and led to fears that the North might have sent hazardous biochemical agents. But an investigation showed that the trash was just trash.
《韩国中央日报》(Korea JoongAng Daily)周二报道称，这个发现引起了韩国官员的警惕，继而开始担忧朝鲜可能会用气球放飞危险的生化制剂。但一项调查显示，那些垃圾只是垃圾而已。
Loudspeakers and propaganda balloons were favorite weapons of psychological warfare used by the two Koreas during the Cold War.
喇叭和宣传气球是韩朝两国在冷战时期最爱用的心理战武器。
Both sides decommissioned them after a landmark summit meeting in 2000 at which they agreed to promote reconciliation.
2000年，两国举行了一次具有里程碑意义的峰会，并在会上同意促进和解。之后，双方停止了这样的做法。
But anti-North Korean activists in the South began sending propaganda balloons into the North in recent years as inter-Korean relations soured, especially over the North’s nuclear weapons program. The balloons carried dollar bills, transistor radios, CDs containing Western movies and leaflets that called Mr. Kim a pig.
但近年来，随着两国关系恶化，特别是因为朝鲜的核武器计划，韩国的反朝活动人士开始向朝鲜放飞宣传气球。那些气球里装着美元、晶体管收音机、刻有西方电影的CD和说金正恩是猪的传单。
North Korea had repeatedly threatened to retaliate.
朝鲜反复威胁说要进行报复。