SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Thursday threatened to cancel reunions of families separated by the Korean War, accusing the United States of flying nuclear-capable B-52 bombers on a training mission over the Korean Peninsula.
韩国首尔——本周四，朝鲜威胁要取消朝鲜战争离散家属团聚计划，它指责美国出动了具有核攻击能力的B-52轰炸机在朝鲜半岛执行训练任务。
North and South Korea agreed on Wednesday to hold the family reunions Feb. 20 to 25, when hundreds of elderly Koreans would be allowed to meet their relatives for the first time since the war ended in 1953.
周三时，韩国和朝鲜同意在2月20日至25日举办离散家属团聚活动，让数百名老人自1953年朝鲜战争结束以来第一次能与亲人见面。
The deal was widely seen as a sign that relations between the two countries may be warming after threats of war followed the North’s nuclear test early last year. The reunions would be the first since 2010, when the humanitarian program was halted amid souring relations.
去年年初，朝鲜进行核试验，几度引发交战的威胁，而离散家属团聚协议被普遍视为朝韩关系或在回暖的一个迹象。本次团聚活动是自2010年朝韩关系恶化、这个人道主义项目被中止后首次举行。
But on Thursday, North Korea warned that it could scrap the agreement unless South Korea canceled joint annual military exercises it planned to start with the United States in the last week of this month.
但朝鲜本周四警告说，它可能会放弃该协议，除非韩国取消原定于本月最后一周开始的美韩年度联合军事演习。
Family reunions remain a highly emotional issue for Koreans. The three-year Korean War ended in a truce, leaving millions of people separated from their relatives across the most heavily armed border in the world. No telephone, letter and email exchanges are allowed between the citizens of the two countries. And for the so-called separated families, the occasional government-arranged reunions are virtually the only chance to meet long-lost relatives.
对于朝韩双方而言，亲属团聚依然是一个带有浓重感情色彩的议题。持续三年的朝鲜战争以休战告终，世界上最为重兵把守的边界令数百万人骨肉分离。两国民众的书信、电话或电子邮件往来都遭到政府的禁止。对于这些多年音讯不通的离散家属来说，政府偶尔安排的团聚活动几乎是他们见面的唯一机会。
“How can they talk about trust and improvement of relations while they are opening their sky for a fleet of American nuclear-capable strategic bombers?” the North’s official Korean Central Television quoted its National Defense Commission as saying in a statement on Thursday. “We will not just sit and do nothing about this farce.”
“他们在向美国具有核攻击能力的战略轰炸机队开放领空的同时，还谈什么信任和改善关系呢？”周四，朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央电视台(Korean Central Television)援引朝鲜国防委员会(National Defense Commission)发布的一份声明说。“我们不会坐视这场闹剧不理。”
The commission, the top ruling agency in Pyongyang — and headed by the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un — said B-52 bombers ran practice bombing sorties on an island off the west coast of South Korea just as Red Cross officials from both Koreas were discussing the family reunions on Wednesday.
该委员会是平壤的最高权力机构，由朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)主持。它表示，本周三正当朝韩两国红十字会官员讨论家属团聚计划的时候，B-52轰炸机多次出动，在韩国西海岸附近的一个岛屿上进行轰炸演练。
There was no immediate comment from the United States military command in Seoul. But South Korean government officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said a single B-52 flew a training mission off the country’s west coast on Wednesday.
首尔的美国军事指挥中心没有立即置评。但一些不愿透露姓名的韩国政府官员说，有一架B-52轰炸机周三在韩国西海岸附近执行训练任务。
The United States Pacific Command declined to comment on operational details of specific missions but said it had “maintained a rotational strategic bomber presence in the region for more than a decade.”
美国太平洋司令部(United States Pacific Command)拒绝对具体任务的操作细节予以置评，但表示它“十多年来一直在该地区轮换部署战略轰炸机”。
“These aircraft, and the men and women who fly them, provide a significant capability that enables our readiness and commitment to extended deterrence, provides assurances to our allies, and strengthens regional security and stability in the Asia-Pacific region,” its public affairs office said in an emailed statement.
“这些飞机及其男、女驾驶员给予了我们重要的能力，让我们做好准备，能够专注于扩大威慑力，而且这也为我们的盟友提供了保障，巩固了亚太地区的安全与稳定，”其公共事务办公室在一份电子邮件声明中说。
Kim Min-seok, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, said Seoul and Washington would press ahead with their joint military exercises regardless of the North’s warning.
韩国国防部(South Korean Defense Ministry)发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)说，首尔和华盛顿不会顾及朝鲜的警告，将按计划举行联合军事演习。
Minister Ryoo Kihl-jae, South Korea’s top North Korea policy maker, urged the North not to cancel family reunions.
韩国负责制定朝鲜政策的最高长官柳佑益(Ryoo Kihl-jae)部长敦促朝鲜不要取消家属团聚计划。
“If an agreement is reached and then retracted, we cannot move forward,” he said. “The agreement yesterday must be kept for a South-North relationship where trust is multiplied.”
“如果达成了协议之后又取消，我们就无法向前迈进，”他说。“为了增进朝韩之间的信任，昨天的协议必须如约履行。”
South Korea and the United States have regularly conducted joint military exercises to test their readiness against the North Korean government, which has often attempted military provocations to destabilize the South and has been building nuclear devices and long-range missiles.
朝鲜不仅常常对韩国进行军事挑衅，动摇该国的稳定局面，而且拥有核装置和远程导弹。韩国和美国定期举行联合军演，以测试他们是否做好了应对朝鲜政府的准备。
But the North denounced the drills as a rehearsal for invasion.
但朝鲜谴责这种演习是出兵的预演。
North Korea, which suffered catastrophic destruction from American carpet-bombings during the Korean War, is particularly sensitive about the participation of American aircraft carriers and nuclear-capable bombers in the war games conducted with the South. It has often cited them as a reason for its development of nuclear weapons, as a “deterrent.”
在朝鲜战争期间，美国的地毯式轰炸给朝鲜造成了巨大破坏，因此它对美国航空母舰和具有核攻击能力的轰炸机加入与韩国的军事演习尤为敏感。朝鲜经常称这是其发展核武器，拥有“威慑力”的一个原因。
When North Korea last summer canceled its invitation for Robert King, Washington’s North Korean rights envoy, to come to Pyongyang and discuss the release of Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary held in North Korea, it reportedly cited a B-52 mission over South Korea at the time.
去年夏天，朝鲜取消了对美国朝鲜人权问题特使罗伯特·金(Robert King)赴朝讨论释放被扣美籍韩裔传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)的邀请，据称朝鲜把B-52轰炸机当时在韩国上空执行任务列入取消邀请的原因。
North Korea has routinely accused the United States of sending B-52 bombers on missions over the peninsula, although the Pentagon often does not publicize them. Last March, during the height of tensions with North Korea following its nuclear test, the Pentagon not only dispatched an aircraft carrier but also announced practice sorties over the peninsula by nuclear-capable B-52 and B-2 bombers.
朝鲜经常指责美国派遣B-52轰炸机在朝鲜半岛上空执行任务，尽管五角大楼通常不会公布这方面的信息。去年3月，朝鲜核试验之后最紧张的时期，五角大楼不仅派出了一艘航空母舰，还宣布在朝鲜半岛上空出动拥有核攻击能力的B-52和B-2轰炸机进行训练。
Wednesday’s deal to allow family reunions was unusual because of its timing. North Korea has often refused to discuss or has even canceled talks for such reunions when Seoul and Washington have staged joint military drills.
本周三的家属团聚协议之所以不同寻常，是因为它达成的时机。在首尔和华盛顿举行联合军演的时候，朝鲜通常会拒绝讨论团聚问题，甚至还取消过此类会谈。
On Thursday, the North said it had reached the deal a day earlier, taking into consideration “the intention of the South Korean leader.” President Park Geun-hye of South Korea has often urged Pyongyang to prove through “action” that its recent proposals to improve relations are sincere.
朝鲜周四表示，考虑到“韩国领导人的用意”，它们已经在周三达成了协议。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)经常敦促平壤通过“行动”来证明它最近提出的改善关系的建议是真诚的。