SEOUL, South Korea — Senior officials from North and South Korea have agreed to meet on their border on Wednesday in the highest-level government contact between the two Koreas since the North’s nuclear test early last year.
韩国首尔——朝韩两国高级官员商定周三在两国边界举行会谈，这是朝鲜去年年初进行核试验后两国之间最高级别的政府接触。
The rare high-level meeting was another sign of slightly thawing relations on the divided peninsula, following a recent agreement to allow scores of families divided by the Korean War to meet. North Korea first proposed the officials’ meeting on Saturday, South Korean officials said.
两国前不久达成了一项协议，允许因朝鲜战争而离散的几十个家庭团聚，而前述的罕见高层会谈再次表明，处于分裂状态的朝鲜半岛上的关系稍有缓和。韩国官员称，这次官方会谈是朝鲜官员于周六首先提议的。
“There is no preset agenda for this meeting,” said Kim Eui-do, a spokesman for the Unification Ministry. “But we expect to discuss issues of key concern, such as holding reunions of separated families smoothly and making them regular events.”
“这次会谈没有预先设定的议程，”韩国统一部发言人金义韬（Kim Eui-do，音译）说，“但我们预计会讨论一些关系重大的问题，比如顺利举行离散家庭团聚活动，并让这类活动常态化。”
It is unclear why the North is making overtures to the South, or whether they will last. Relations slumped to a nadir last year after the North’s third nuclear test and resulting international sanctions. Since then, attempts for warmer ties have been sporadic, with the North, for instance, agreeing to family visits in August but delaying them in September.
尚不清楚朝鲜为何主动向韩国示好，也不知道这类活动能否持续。朝鲜在去年进行第三次核试验并遭到国际社会制裁，两国关系随之跌至谷底。自那以后，缓和两国关系的努力一直时断时续，比如，朝鲜在去年8月同意分居两国的亲属互相探亲，但又在9月将相关活动延期。
For the moment, reunions are scheduled to be held from Feb. 20-25. If held, the reunions would be the first since 2010, when the humanitarian program was halted amid souring relations.
家庭团聚活动暂定于2月20日至25日举行。假若如期举行，这次活动将是2010年以来的第一次。2010年，由于两国关系不断恶化，这一人道主义项目被迫中止。
The North’s agreement to allow for family reunions was unusual because of its timing. North Korea has often refused to discuss or has even canceled talks for such reunions when the South and the United States have staged joint military drills. A new set of joint drills is scheduled to begin Feb. 24. The North did threaten to cancel the visits again last week unless the exercises were called off, denouncing them as a rehearsal for invasion.
朝鲜同意举行离散家庭团聚活动的举措，因为时机选择而显得非比寻常。韩国和美国展开联合军演时，朝鲜经常拒绝参与甚而取消关于此类团聚活动的对话。新一轮联合军演计划于2月24日启动。上周，朝鲜确曾威胁要再次取消团聚活动，除非演习被叫停，并且指责这些军演是侵略的彩排。
South Korea rejected the demand, calling the war games defensive exercises. North Korea made its overture for a high-level meeting of officials days later.
韩国拒绝了朝鲜的要求，称联合军演是防御性演习。几天之后，朝鲜主动提议举行高级别的官员会谈。
The representatives at the meeting are set to include Kim Kyu-hyun of South Korea, a career diplomat who holds the rank of vice cabinet minister in the administration of President Park Geun-hye, the Unification Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. Mr. Kim’s office coordinates policies on North Korea and other neighbors.
韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)在周二的声明里说，预定的与会代表包括韩国职业外交官金奎贤(Kim Kyu-hyun)，他在韩国总统朴槿惠的政府里担任内阁副部长。金奎贤的办公室负责协调对朝鲜和其他邻国的政策。
Won Dong-yon, a veteran North Korean negotiator, will represent his country’s government during the talks at Panmunjom, where the truce that put an end to direct conflict in the three-year Korean War was signed in 1953.
朝鲜谈判老手元东渊(Won Dong-yon)将代表朝鲜政府参加此次板门店谈判，1953年，双方就是在这里签署停火协议，结束了双方在三年朝鲜战争期间的直接冲突。