SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea appeared on Tuesday to pause its threat to launch ballistic missiles toward Guam, saying it would wait to assess “the foolish and stupid conduct” of the United States before carrying the launchings out.
韩国首尔——朝鲜似乎在周二暂停了向关岛发射弹道导弹的威胁，表示会再等一等，以便在实施发射之前，对美国的“愚蠢和糊涂行为”进行评估。
The statement came as the United States and South Korea were preparing to conduct joint military exercises on the Korean Peninsula and surrounding waters starting on Monday, despite North Korea’s vehement opposition to such drills.
该声明发表在美国和韩国准备于周一开始在朝鲜半岛及周边水域进行联合军事演习之际，朝鲜强烈反对这种演习。
In response to threats from President Trump, North Korea’s military announced last week that by mid-August, it would submit a plan to Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader, for launching four ballistic missiles into waters around Guam, the United States territory that is home to American military bases.
作为对特朗普总统的威胁的响应，朝鲜军方上周宣布，8月中旬将向朝鲜领导人金正恩提交一份发射四枚弹道导弹至关岛附近水域的方案，关岛是美国的领土，岛上有美国军事基地。
On Monday, Mr. Kim reviewed the plan while visiting the command of the Strategic Force of the Korean People’s Army but said he would wait a bit before telling the military to proceed with the missile launchings, the state news media reported on Tuesday.
据朝鲜官方新闻媒体周二的报道，金正恩周一在视察朝鲜人民军战略军司令部时审阅了这个方案，但他表示，在命令军队进行导弹发射之前他要等一等。
“He said that the U.S. imperialists caught the noose around their necks due to their reckless military confrontation racket, adding that they would watch a little more the foolish and stupid conduct of the Yankees,” said the report from the Korean Central News Agency.
朝鲜中央通讯社的报道说，“（金正恩）表示，美国的军事对抗妄动等于作茧自缚，还说，朝鲜将再注视一会儿他们的姿态。”
Mr. Kim’s decision to wait “a little more” before ordering the launchings represented a slight ratcheting down of tensions and came after some of Mr. Trump’s top aides on Monday tried to tamp down fears of a clash after his threat to rain “fire and fury” on North Korea.
金正恩在下令发射导弹前“再等一等”的决定表示了紧张局势的略微缓和，在他做出这个决定之前，特朗普的高级助手们试图在周一减轻人们对发生冲突的担忧，此前特朗普曾威胁要让“炮火和怒火”雨点般地落在朝鲜的土地上。
South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, on Tuesday offered an unusually blunt rebuke to the Trump administration’s discussions of possible military responses to the North, saying no countryshould take military action on the Korean Peninsula without his government’s approval.
周二，韩国总统文在寅对特朗普政府关于可能对朝鲜做出军事响应的讨论给予了异乎寻常的直率批评，他说，在未得到韩国政府同意的情况下，任何国家都不应该在朝鲜半岛采取军事行动。
“It’s only South Korea that can decide on a military action on the Korean Peninsula,” Mr. Moon said during a nationally televised speech marking National Liberation Day, which celebrates the end of Japanese colonial rule of Korea at the end of World War II. “No one should be allowed to decide on a military action on the Korean Peninsula without South Korean agreement.”
“只有韩国可以决定是否在朝鲜半岛采取军事行动，”文在寅在纪念光复节发表电视讲话时说。“未经韩国同意，任何人都不该被允许对在朝鲜半岛上采取军事行动做决定。”光复节是庆祝第二次世界大战结束、韩国摆脱日本殖民统治的日子。
South Koreans have grown increasingly concerned in recent days about a possible military conflict following Mr. Trump’s threats against the North.
近日来，韩国人越来越担心，特朗普发表了威胁朝鲜的言论之后，可能会发生军事冲突。
As the exchange of combative rhetoric intensified between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim, Mr. Moon and his office have issued a steady stream of statements opposing any armed conflict on the peninsula.
随着特朗普与金正恩你来我往的好战言论不断升级，文在寅及其办公室已发表了一连串的反对朝鲜半岛上任何武装冲突的声明。
Although Mr. Moon’s latest statement did not mention Mr. Trump by name, it marked his strongest expression of disapproval of military options being considered by Washington.
虽然文在寅在最新的声明中没有提特朗普的名字，但这份声明是他不赞成华盛顿正在考虑军事选择的最强有力的表达。
In a meeting with Mr. Moon on Monday, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, agreed with the South Korean leader that the standoff over North Korea’s nuclear and missile threats should be resolved through diplomacy and sanctions. But the top American general added that the United States was preparing military options in case those efforts failed.
美国参谋长联席会议主席小约瑟夫·F·邓福德上将(Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr.)周一与文在寅会晤时表示同意韩国领导人的观点，即朝鲜核武器和导弹威胁的僵持局面需要用外交手段和制裁来解决。但邓福德补充说，美国也在准备军事方案，以防那些努力不成功。
“The United States military’s priority is to support our government’s efforts to achieve the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula through diplomatic and economic pressure,” General Dunford was quoted as saying in a Korean-language statement released by Mr. Moon’s office after the meeting on Monday. “We are preparing a military option in case such efforts fail.”
周一的会晤结束后，文在寅的办公室发表了一份韩文声明，声明引用邓福德的话说，“美国军方的首要任务是支持我们的政府通过外交和经济压力来实现朝鲜半岛无核化的努力。 我们也在准备一个军事选择，以防这种努力失败。”
On Tuesday, General Dunford met in Beijing with his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Fang Fenghui, discussing North Korea. It was not clear what message General Dunford delivered, or whether the generals discussed China’s proposal that North Korea freeze its nuclear testing in exchange for the United States cutting sharply back on its military exercises with South Korea.
周二，邓福德在北京与其中国同行房峰辉上将见了面，讨论了朝鲜的问题。尚不清楚邓福德向中国传递了什么信息，也不清楚这两位将军是否讨论了中国的提案，即朝鲜暂停核试验，作为交换，美国大幅度降低其与韩国进行军事演习的规模。
The Pentagon and the State Department have said in the last several days that the Trump administration favors diplomacy to resolve the North’s nuclear expansion, but they have rejected China’s proposal, which it first presented earlier this year.
美国国防部和国务院在最近几天都表示，特朗普政府支持用外交手段解决朝鲜的核扩散问题，但这两个部门都拒绝了中国在今年早些时候提出的上述建议。
In a statement after the meeting, General Fang struck a conciliatory tone on the relationship between the United States and China, but made no mention of North Korea. “Cooperation is the only right choice between China and the U.S.,” he said.
在两人见面后发表的一份声明中，房峰辉对中美关系做出了和解的表示，但没有提及朝鲜。他说，“合作是中美唯一的正确选择。”
In his speech on Tuesday, Mr. Moon said that his government would “do everything it can to prevent war.” At the same time, he called for dialogue with North Korea, repeating his long-held belief that sanctions alone cannot solve the crisis over North Korea’s nuclear weapons and missile programs.
文在寅在周二的讲话中说，他的政府将“尽一切可能阻止战争”。同时，他还呼吁与朝鲜进行对话，并重申了他长期以来的观点，即单靠制裁不能解决有关朝鲜核武器和导弹计划的危机。
“The purpose of strong sanctions and pressure against North Korea is to bring it to the negotiating table, not to raise military tensions,” he said.
他说，“对朝鲜采取强大制裁和施加压力的目的，是让朝鲜回到谈判桌上来，而不是提升军事紧张局势。”
The South Korean leader urged North Korea to help create momentum toward dialogue by not conducting any more nuclear or missile tests.
韩国领导人敦促朝鲜不再进行核试验或导弹试验，以营造对话的势态。
He also reiterated his proposal to the North that the two Koreas organize reunions of families separated during the 1950-53 Korean War as a first step toward easing tensions and improving ties on the divided Korean Peninsula.
他还重申了他向朝鲜提出的建议，即韩朝两国举行离散家庭团聚活动，让在1950至1953年间，因朝鲜战争离散的家庭成员团聚，以作为缓和紧张局势、改善韩朝关系的第一步。
Mr. Trump held a 30-minute call on Tuesday with Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister, about the tensions in the region.
特朗普周二与日本首相安倍晋三通了30分钟的电话，讨论了东亚地区的紧张局势。
In comments to reporters Tuesday morning Japan time, Mr. Abe said that the two leaders “frankly exchanged opinions on the current North Korean situation,” saying he appreciated Mr. Trump’s “commitment to the safety of its allies.”
安倍晋三在当地时间的周二上午对记者发表评论时说，两位领导人“就目前的朝鲜局势坦诚地交换了意见”，并说他对特朗普“对盟国安全的承诺”表示赞赏。
Mr. Abe, who has emerged as one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal allies, said that he and Mr. Trump “shared the view that the priority is not to let North Korea launch missiles.”
安倍晋三已表现出自己是特朗普最忠实的盟友之一，他说，他和特朗普“都认为，最重要的是不让朝鲜发射导弹”。