SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, plans to send a senior envoy to Moscow, state-run media announced on Friday, as the country seeks to improve its relations with Russia.
韩国首尔——朝鲜官方媒体周五宣布，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)计划派一名高级特使前往莫斯科。朝鲜正试图改善与俄罗斯的关系。
Choe Ryong-hae, a member of the Presidium of the Politburo, a high-ranking body in the North’s ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, was chosen as the special envoy, the Korean Central News Agency reported.
朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，朝鲜执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers’ Party of Korea)的政治局常委崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)被选为特使。
The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement that Mr. Choe would begin an eight-day trip to the country on Monday to discuss improving political and economic ties. Mr. Choe will visit Vladivostok, which is near North Korea, on his way home from Moscow, the statement said.
俄罗斯外交部发表声明称，崔龙海将于周一开启为期八天的俄罗斯之旅，探讨改善两国政治及经济关系的事宜。声明称，崔龙海将在从莫斯科返回朝鲜的途中，访问位于朝鲜附近的符拉迪沃斯托克。
The North Korean report did not elaborate on Mr. Choe’s trip. South Korean news media said, without citing its sources, that he was likely to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin.
朝鲜的报道没有详细介绍崔龙海的行程。不过韩国新闻媒体报道，崔龙海可能会与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)会面，但没有透露消息来源。
Mr. Choe is widely considered one of Mr. Kim’s closest aides. He visited Beijing in May of last year and met with President Xi Jinping of China.
崔龙海被广泛视为金正恩最亲密的助手。他曾于去年5月到访中国，并与中国国家主席习近平会面。
Mr. Choe’s trip to Moscow comes as North Korea is relying on its old Cold War allies, China and Russia, to veto any United Nations move to bring Mr. Kim before the International Criminal Court on accusations that his country violated human rights.
崔龙海开启莫斯科之行的背景是，朝鲜需要依靠冷战时期的盟友中国和俄罗斯来否决联合国的提案：以侵犯人权的罪名将金正恩移交给国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)。
In February, a United Nations panel submitted a report accusing the North Korean government of systematic torture, killings and starvation and said top leaders could be held accountable for crimes against humanity. The General Assembly is expected to vote on a resolution condemning North Korea’s human rights abuses later this year, but only the Security Council, where Russia and China wield veto power, can refer the matter to the international court. China, North Korea’s main ally, has already indicated it will probably block such a move.
今年2月，联合国的一个委员会提交了一份报告，谴责朝鲜政府制造了系统性的折磨、杀戮和饥荒，并称可能会就诸多反人类罪行向该国最高领导人追究责任。联合国大会预计会在今年晚些时候，就一项谴责朝鲜侵犯人权的决议举行投票，但只有安理会能就此事在国际法院提起诉讼，而俄罗斯和中国在安理会有否决权。作为朝鲜的主要盟友，中国已表明可能会阻挠这类举动。
The North Korean government has recently tried to improve its relations with Moscow as a possible counterbalance to China. Beijing has been under international pressure to use its economic influence to discourage the North from conducting nuclear and missile tests and engaging in other acts seen by the West as provocations. Years of sanctions have left North Korea increasingly reliant on trade with China, and leaders in Pyongyang, the capital, have grown uncomfortable with that economic dependence, and the leverage it gives Beijing, analysts said.
最近，朝鲜政府试图改善与莫斯科的关系，作为一种制衡中国的可能方式。国际社会向北京施压，要求其利用经济影响，阻止朝鲜进行核试验和导弹试验，或是从事其他被西方视作挑衅的举动。分析人士称，多年的制裁导致朝鲜越来越依赖对华贸易，而朝鲜首都平壤的领导人，逐渐开始对这种经济上的依赖感到不安。
For its part, Russia has tried to coax North Korea into cooperating with its economic expansion in the Far East.
俄罗斯方面也在尝试诱导朝鲜，在该国远东地区的经济扩张中开展合作。
In April, a senior Russian government delegation visited Pyongyang with a gift of fire engines. In October, the North Korean foreign minister, Ri Su-yong, visited Russia for 10 days and supported Moscow’s policy in the Ukrainian crisis. Last week, Hyon Yong-chol, the North’s defense minister, visited Moscow, ostensibly to attend a birthday party for a retired Russian defense chief, and had a “friendly dialogue” with Mr. Putin, according to North Korean state media.
4月，俄罗斯政府的一支高级代表团访问了平壤，并带去了消防车作为礼物。10月，朝鲜外相李洙墉(Ri Su-yong)对俄罗斯进行了为期10天的访问，并对莫斯科在乌克兰危机中的政策表示支持。上周，相当于国防部长的朝鲜人民武力部部长玄永哲(Hyon Yong-chol)访问莫斯科，表面上是为俄罗斯一名已退休的前国防部长庆祝生日。朝鲜官方媒体报道称，玄永哲与普京进行了“友好的对话”。