SEOUL, South Korea — When Capt. John Ellerbe introduced himself to his new students last year, he said, one of them seemed unable to believe her eyes.
韩国首尔——约翰·埃勒布上尉(Capt. John Ellerbe)说，当他去年向新来的学生介绍自己时，其中有一位似乎无法相信自己的眼睛。
“She said she had never seen a U.S. soldier before,” Captain Ellerbe said of the woman, who was taken aback by his friendly demeanor. “In North Korea, they taught that we were like baby killers and we were basically out to get them.”
“她说自己以前从没见过美国兵，”埃勒布上尉说到那名女学生，她被他友好的举止惊到了。“在朝鲜，政府教导的是，我们这些人像婴儿杀手一样凶残，基本上就是到处抓人。”
The Army captain’s students were defectors from North Korea now living in the South and doing what countless young South Koreans do for a leg up in life: studying English. And in meeting Captain Ellerbe and other volunteer tutors from the main American military base in Seoul, they were getting an additional lesson.
这名陆军上尉的学生是来自朝鲜的叛逃者，如今他们生活在韩国，在做着无数韩国年轻人为出人头地所要做的努力：学英语。通过与埃勒布上尉和其他来自首尔的主要美国军事基地的志愿教师接触，他们还学到了另外一门课。
“When I heard that I had to learn English from the American soldiers, I was so afraid of and difficult to receive the fact,” a defector, Ms. Oh, 23, said in imperfect English during a recent class, reading a short speech she had written. “Because I had learned that the American is very bad enemy to North people when I lived in North Korea.”
“当我听说自己必须跟美国军人学英语时，我感到非常害怕，很难接受这个事实，”在最近的一次课上，23岁的脱北者吴女士用不太流利的英语说道，她在读自己之前写的一篇短发言稿。“因为以前在朝鲜生活时，我受到的教育是，美国人是朝鲜人民的恶毒敌人。”
Ms. Oh was putting it mildly. (She asked that her full name be withheld to protect relatives still in the North, where the government often punishes defectors’ families.)
何女士的说法比较委婉。（她要求报道不使用她的全名，以保护她依然留在朝鲜的亲人，因为朝鲜政府往往会惩罚叛逃者的家人。）
From kindergarten onward, North Koreans are steeped in government propaganda, much of it intended to stoke fear and hatred of Americans — especially soldiers from the United States. North Korean troops conduct live-fire drills using mock American soldiers as targets. Defectors from the North, more than a thousand of whom settle in the South each year, have said that a common school activity is for children to beat effigies of American soldiers with sticks.
从上幼儿园开始，朝鲜人就深受政府宣传的灌输，其中有不少是有意激起他们对美国人的恐惧和仇恨——尤其是对美国军人。朝鲜军队会把美国士兵模拟像当作靶子，进行实弹演习。如今每年有1000多名脱北者在韩国定居，他们也表示，朝鲜的学校有一项常见的活动，就是让儿童用棍子击打美国士兵的模拟像。
Such indoctrination is countered for two hours every Saturday at the English classes in southern Seoul, where Americans like Captain Ellerbe, along with English-speaking soldiers from the South, tutor 20 or so defectors ranging in age from their teens to their 50s. The program is supported by the Korea Hana Foundation, an organization funded by the South Korean government that helps defectors adjust to life here.
每周六在首尔进行的两小时英语课上，他们此前被灌输的这些思想会得到扭转。在那里，有埃勒布这样的美国人和会说英语的韩国士兵给20名左右的脱北者上课，后者来自各个年龄段，从10多岁到50多岁的都有。这个项目是由韩国Hana基金会(Korea Hana Foundation)支持，该机构由政府提供资金，旨在帮助脱北者适应在韩国的生活。
“This is a way of strengthening our alliance with South Koreans,” said Col. Maria Eoff, commander of the Yongsan United States Army Garrison in central Seoul, where Captain Ellerbe and the other American tutors are stationed.
“这是加强美韩盟友关系的一种方式，”驻扎在首尔中部的龙山美国陆军基地(Yongsan United States Army Garrison)的指挥官马里亚·厄弗上校(Col. Maria Eoff)说道。那里正是埃勒布上尉和其他美国辅导老师的驻地。
Choi Hyun-joon, who came to South Korea in 2008 and now leads a defectors’ organization, Unification Future Solidarity, said he had the idea for the classes after he met with United States soldiers to discuss his experiences in the Ministry of State Security, the North Korean secret police.
崔炫俊（Choi Hyun-joon，音）2008年来到韩国，现在领导着一个名为“统一未来团结会”(Unification Future Solidarity)的脱北者组织。他表示，在见到美国军人，和他们谈论了自己在朝鲜秘密警察机构国家安全部(Ministry of State Security)的经历之后，他产生了举办这种课程的想法。
The ministry’s responsibilities included keeping foreign influence, like American movies and English-language publications, from reaching ordinary North Koreans. Now, Mr. Choi is doing the opposite. (His organization provides the office space for the classes.) He said the news that defectors were learning English from American soldiers had reached the North, by way of students talking to relatives and friends back home.
国家安全部的职责包括控制外来影响，比如避免普通朝鲜人接触美国电影和英语出版物。现在，崔炫俊则做着相反的事。（他领导的组织为上述课程提供场地。）他说脱北者在向美国士兵学英语的消息已经传到了朝鲜，因为有的学生会向留在朝鲜的亲人朋友说起这些事。
“They just wouldn’t believe it,” Mr. Choi said.
“他们根本无法相信这样的事，”崔炫俊说。
North Korea’s government uses the specter of a constant American threat in its domestic propaganda to justify its authoritarian rule, according to experts on the isolated country. The propaganda draws heavily on memories of the Korean War of 1950-53, when American bombers devastated much of the North, and it accuses United States soldiers of grotesque acts of violence against civilians during the conflict.
研究这个封闭国家的专家表示，朝鲜政府通过国内宣传制造对持续存在的美国威胁的恐惧，来使自身的威权统治获得合法性。这类宣传大量利用人们对1950至1953年间朝鲜战争的记忆——当时美国的轰炸机将朝鲜的许多地方夷为平地——还指控美国士兵在冲突期间对朝鲜平民犯下千奇百怪的罪行。
In 2014, North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, called United States soldiers “cannibals” during a visit to the Sinchon Museum of American Atrocities south of Pyongyang, the capital, which depicts what the government claims was the killing of tens of thousands of civilians by American soldiers and their South Korean “running dogs” there. The museum has been renovated to present even more graphic renditions of violence that the North accuses “American imperialist wolves” of committing in late 1950.
2014年，在视察位于首都平壤以南的信川美军暴行博物馆(Sinchon Museum of American Atrocities)时，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)称美国士兵“吃人”，博物馆展示了朝鲜政府所说的美国士兵及其韩国“走狗”对数以万计的平民展开的杀戮。该博物馆已经进行了翻修，以便展示更多显示暴行的图片资料，也就是朝鲜所指控的“美帝国主义恶狼”于1950年代末在这里犯下的暴行。
“As visitors move between scenes, each complemented by screaming sound effects, their senses are assaulted by what I can only describe as a pornography of violence,” a recent visitor to the museum wrote on the website 38North.org. “Women having spikes nailed into their heads; breasts being cut off; children being torn from mothers’ arms; mothers and children burned alive, buried alive and tossed from a bridge; men being blown up by dynamite inside caverns — the horrors are unrelenting in number and variety.”
“对于游客在辅之以尖叫音效的各个场景间穿行时所受到的感官刺激，我只能用暴力的春宫图来形容，”最近到访该博物馆的一名游客在“三八线以北”网站(38North.org)上写道。“有女子头部被插入带尖物体；胸部被割掉；儿童被从母亲怀里扯走；母亲和孩子一起被活活烧死，活埋或从桥上扔下；男子被聚集在洞穴里炸死——这类对恐怖事件的描绘的数量和种类之多，难以尽数。”
Decades of such propaganda left defectors like Kim Kwang-ok, 31, a student, unprepared for the congeniality of the American soldiers in civilian garb who have been teaching her English in Seoul.
因为接受了长达数十年的此类宣传，诸如31岁的金光玉（Kim Kwang-ok，音）这样的脱北者不知该如何应对身着日常服装的美国士兵表现出的和蔼，后者在首尔给他们教授英语。
“But I am embarrassed to admit that when I talk about them in Korean, I still inadvertently call them ‘miguknom,’ ” Ms. Kim said, using the Korean word for “American scoundrels.” “That was the only way we referred to them in the North.”
“很不好意思，但我承认，在用母语谈及他们的时候，我还是会不经意地叫他们‘miguknom’，”金说。朝鲜语中的miguknom是美国鬼子的意思。“我们在朝鲜都是这么称呼他们的。”
“In North Korea, when you put yourself in a situation where everyone else criticizes you, you jokingly say, ‘I am an American jerk,’ ” said Park Nam-il, 37, the secretary general of Unification Future Solidarity.
“在朝鲜，如果一个人让自己置身于受到所有人批评的境地，就会开玩笑地说，‘我是个美国混蛋，’”统一未来团结会(Unification Future Solidarity)秘书长、37岁的朴南日(Park Nam-il)说。
Ironically, one of the most common desires of defectors who settle in the South is to learn English, the language of their homeland’s sworn enemy. Over seven decades of separation, the two Koreas’ versions of Korean have diverged considerably, with the Southern version acquiring many English words. “Lipstick,” “brakes,” “cafe” and “Americano” are all new to defectors. When they play soccer with South Koreans, linguistic chaos ensues.
具有讽刺意味的是，在韩国定居的叛逃者最普遍的愿望之一竟然是学习英语——他们祖国的死对头所使用的语言。在韩国和朝鲜分裂后的70年间，两边的语言已经有了很大的差异，因为韩语中引入了很多英语词汇。Lipstick（口红）、brakes（刹车）、cafe（小餐馆）和Americano（美式咖啡）对叛逃者来说都是新词。当他们和韩国人踢足球的时候，语言上的混乱就会显现出来。
In North Korea, schools offer English, Chinese and Russian, as foreign-language options starting in fourth grade. “But there was no desire to learn a foreign language we would never use,” said Chung Kyong-hee, 53.
朝鲜的学校从四年级开始会提供英语、汉语、俄语等外语课程让学生选择。“但我们没兴趣去学一门永远也用不着的外语，”53岁的钟庆熙(Chung Kyong-hee)说。
In a recent class for beginners’ English, Ms. Chung and several other middle-aged North Korean women painstakingly copied words like “airport,” “luggage” and “bus stop” onto their notepads. They chuckled when they came upon an English word they all knew: “money.” “How much is this?” they repeated after Cpl. Seo Young-wook, a South Korean soldier based at Yongnam.
不久前，在一堂面向初学者的英语课上，钟庆熙和其他几个来自朝鲜的中年女人费力地在笔记本上抄写着airport（机场）、luggage（行李）和bus stop（公交站）等词汇。学到money（钱）这个大家都认识的单词时，她们轻声笑了起来。“How much is this?（这个多少钱？）”她们跟着驻守岭南的韩国下士徐英旭（Seo Young-wook，音）念道。
The classes are also an education for the American tutors, giving them a chance to see what ordinary people in North Korea — the country they are trained to be ready to fight — are like.
教课对那些美国辅导老师来说也是增长见识的过程。他们平时所受的训练都以随时准备与朝鲜开战为目的，现在他们可以有机会看看这个国家的普通百姓是什么样子。