North Korea threatened Monday to shoot down U.S. warplanes even if they are not in the country’s airspace, as its foreign minister declared that President Donald Trump’s threatening comments about the country and its leadership were “a declaration of war.”
本周一，朝鲜威胁要击落美国的战机，即使它们不在该国领空内，同时朝鲜外相宣布，特朗普总统对该国及其领导人发出的威胁言论等同于“宣战”。
“The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country,” the foreign minister, Ri Yong Ho, told reporters as he was leaving the United Nations after a week of General Assembly meetings in New York.
“全世界都应该清楚记得当时是美国先向我们宣战的，”朝鲜外相李勇浩(Ri Yong Ho)在联合国大会召开一周后离开那里的时候对新闻记者说。
“Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country,” he said.
“既然是美国对我们宣战的，那么我们就完全有权作出反击，包括击落美国的战略轰炸机，即使它们不在我们的领空内，”他表示。
Within hours, the Trump administration pushed back on Ri’s assertions, with the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, telling a news briefing in Washington: “We have not declared war on North Korea.”
几个小时不到，特朗普政府就反驳了李勇浩的说法，白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在华盛顿的新闻发布会上说：“我们还没有对朝鲜宣战。”
The last time North Korea shot down a U.S. warplane was in 1969, during the Nixon administration, killing all 31 crew members of a spy plane that was flying off its coast.
上次朝鲜击落美国战机是在1969年，尼克松执政期间，那架间谍飞机当时正在朝鲜沿海飞行，机上31人全部遇难。
Today, North Korea’s ability to make good on its threat is limited. Its air force is outdated, undertrained and frequently short of fuel. But the threat signaled another major escalation in a rhetorical exchange that many fear could push Pyongyang and Washington into a conflict, even an unintended one.
现在，朝鲜兑现威胁的能力很有限。朝鲜空军装备陈旧，训练不足，经常缺少燃料。但这个威胁标志着口水仗的再次重大升级，很多人担心平壤和华盛顿可能会陷入冲突，甚至是无意之间爆发的冲突。
Ri’s reference to the declaration of war appeared to refer to Trump’s assertion in a Twitter message over the weekend that the North Korean leadership may not “be around much longer” if it continues its threats.
李勇浩提到的宣战，似乎是指特朗普周末在一则推文中所说的，如果朝鲜继续发出威胁，那么朝鲜领导人可能不会“活得很长”。
Ri said that the question of “who would be around much longer will be answered” by North Korea.
李勇浩说，“谁将活得更长”这个问题“会由朝鲜来回答”。
It is possible that North Korea’s foreign minister wanted to make clear that it, too, could threaten pre-emptive military action, just as the United States has repeatedly suggested in recent months.
也有可能朝鲜外相是想清楚表明，朝鲜也能以先发制人的军事行动相威胁，就像美国这几个月多次做过的那样。
But Trump’s tweet over the weekend appeared to go further, suggesting that mere threats, rather than a military attack, could drive him to wipe out the country. Whether that was one of his characteristic outbursts or a strategic effort to intimidate North Korea was not clear — even to some of his advisers.
但特朗普周末发出的推文似乎更进了一步，表示仅仅是受到威胁，而不是军事攻击，就可以激发他消灭这个国家。目前还不清楚这是他那种特有的随口一说，还是针对朝鲜威胁的战略性打算，就连他的一些顾问也不清楚。
“If the goal is to intimidate the North Koreans, it needs to be understood that they are really hard to intimidate,” said Evans J.R. Revere, a Korea expert who is a former deputy assistant secretary of state.
“如果他的目的是威慑朝鲜，我们必须认识到，威胁朝鲜人真的是很困难，”前副助理国务卿、朝鲜问题专家李维亚(Evans J. R. Revere)说。
“They’re not used to an American president saying these things,” Revere said. “They’re also masters at responding when their leader is attacked.”
“他们不习惯听到美国总统说这样的话，”李维亚说。“当他们的领导人受到攻击时，他们也很擅于作出回应。”
The escalation of threats came two days after U.S. warplanes flew close to the North’s coast, going farther north of the Demilitarized Zone — the dividing line between North and South — than any other U.S. air mission in the past century. The Air Force advertised the exercise, which involved only U.S. aircraft, as a direct response to North Korea’s accelerated missile launches and a nuclear test two weeks ago.
就在威胁升级的两天之前，美国战机飞到了靠近朝鲜海岸的地方，到了非军事区——朝鲜和韩国之间的分界线——还继续向北飞行一段距离，比过去一个世纪中的任何美国飞机都更深入朝鲜。美国空军公布了这项仅涉及美国飞机的演习，作为对朝鲜加速导弹发射以及两周前进行核试验的直接回应。
Ri, who is well connected to the country’s top leadership, also said last week that the North was considering conducting an atmospheric nuclear test, which would be the first by any nation in 37 years.
李勇浩和朝鲜的最高领导层关系密切，他上周也说过，朝鲜正在考虑在大气层进行一次核试验，37年来全球还没有哪个国家开展过这样的试验。
It is unclear whether the North is capable of pulling off such a test, which is far more complicated and dangerous than the underground testing it has done six times in the past 11 years. But a senior Trump administration official said over the weekend that the Pentagon and intelligence agencies were taking the threat seriously and beginning to devise possible responses — including pre-emptive military strikes — for the White House.
目前还不清楚朝鲜是否有能力开展这样的试验，这比该国过去11年中进行的6次地下核试验要复杂得多，也危险得多。但特朗普政府的一名高级官员周末表示，五角大楼和情报机构正在认真对待这一威胁，并开始为白宫设计可能的应对措施，包括先发制人的军事打击。
And Col. Robert Manning, a Pentagon spokesman, told reporters Monday that if North Korea did not stop its provocative actions, “we will make sure that we provide options to the president to deal with North Korea.”
五角大楼发言人罗伯特·曼宁(Robert Manning)星期一对记者说，如果朝鲜继续挑衅，“我们将务必向总统提供应对朝鲜问题的选择。”
The increasing acrimony also alarmed China, North Korea’s biggest trading partner, which strongly opposes the North’s missile and nuclear tests but has repeatedly urged de-escalation.
事态的日益升级也让中国感到不安，中国是朝鲜最大的贸易伙伴，它强烈反对朝鲜的导弹和核试验，但是再三敦促各方将事态降级。
“We want things to calm down,” China’s U.N. ambassador, Liu Jieyi, was quoted by Reuters as saying on Monday. “It’s getting too dangerous and it’s in nobody’s interest.”
“我们想让事态平静下来，”路透社星期一引述中国常驻联合国代表刘结一的话说。“这太危险了，对谁都没有好处。”
North Korea had already deemed Trump’s threat at the United Nations — to “totally destroy” North Korea if the United States were forced to defend itself or its allies — a declaration of war.
特朗普之前在联合国发出威胁，说如果美国不得不保卫自己或盟友，就会“彻底摧毁朝鲜”。朝鲜已经把这种言论视为宣战。
The North’s leader, Kim Jong Un, said last week: “Now that Trump has denied the existence of and insulted me and my country in front of the eyes of the world and made the most ferocious declaration of a war in history that he would destroy the DPRK (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea), we will consider with seriousness exercising of a corresponding, highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history.”
朝鲜领导人金正恩上周表示：“既然特朗普当着世界的面否定和侮辱我和国家的存在本身，作出要消灭朝鲜的史上最残暴的宣战，我们也将慎重考虑采取与之相应的史上最高级别的超强硬应对措施。”