SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea and South Korea fired hundreds of artillery shells across their disputed western sea border on Monday, escalating military tensions a day after the North threatened to conduct more nuclear tests.
韩国首尔——朝鲜和韩国周一分别将几百发炮弹发射到越过他们有争议的西部海上界线的对方一边，进一步提升了该地区的紧张局势，一天前，朝鲜曾威胁要进行更多的核试验。
South Korean officials said the shells from both sides fell harmlessly into waters from which naval and fishing boats had stayed clear. But the exchange of fire marked the most serious episode along that border since an artillery duel there in 2010.
韩国官员说，双方发射的炮弹都落入了水中，没有造成伤害，因为军舰和渔船都避开了该水域。但是，此次朝韩对发炮弹标志着该边境地区自2010年以来一次最严重的局势，2010年曾发生过一次火炮对射。
Earlier on Monday, North Korea had told the South that it would conduct live-fire military drills in seven zones along the maritime border, which hugs the southern coast of North Korea. Then its artillery pieces and multiple-rocket launchers rolled out of shoreline tunnels and fired 500 shells and projectiles between 12:15 p.m. and 3:30 p.m.
周一早些时候，朝鲜曾告知韩国，要在这段海上边境线的七个地方进行实弹军事演习，这段边界紧挨着朝鲜南部的海岸线。随后朝鲜将火炮和多管火箭发射器从沿海的隧道中开出，在下午12:15到3:30之间发射了500枚炮弹和发射物。
About 100 of them flew across the disputed sea border and fell into South Korean-controlled waters near Baengnyeong Island, said Kim Min-seok, the spokesman for the South Korean Ministry of National Defense. Baengnyeong, a South Korean marine garrison, lies only 10 miles from the southwestern tip of North Korea.
其中有约100发穿越过有争议的海上边境线，落到白翎岛附近属于韩国控制的水域，韩国国防部(South Korean Defense Ministry)发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)称。白翎岛上驻有韩国海军陆战队，距离朝鲜的西南端只有约16公里。
In retaliation, South Korean marines fired K-9 self-propelled artillery pieces, pounding North Korean waters north of the disputed sea border with 300 shells, Mr. Kim said.
作为报复，韩国海军陆战队使用K-9型自行火炮，向有争议的海上边境线以北的朝鲜水域发射了300发炮弹，金珉奭说。
With guns from both sides rumbling, residents of the five South Korean border islands, including hundreds of children, hurried into bomb shelters. South Korea suspended ferry services to the islands and ordered fishing boats operating near the border waters to return to port.
在两国的炮火声中，住在韩国这边的5个边境岛屿上的居民、包括数百名儿童匆匆躲进防空避难所。韩国暂停了往返这些岛屿的轮渡服务，并下令在边境线附近水域工作的渔船返港。
“This is a premeditated provocation to test our will to defend the maritime border, and if the North provokes again using our response today as an excuse, we will act decisively,” Mr. Kim said. “We have increased our vigilance along the western frontier islands and boosted weapons’ readiness there.”
金珉奭说，“这是有预谋的挑衅，是为了测试我们捍卫海上边境线的决心，如果朝鲜以我们今天的回应作为借口，再次挑衅的话，我们将采取果断行动。我们已经加强了西部边境岛屿的戒备，并增强了那里武器的作战准备。”
Artillery exchanges in the disputed waters are not unprecedented, but rising military tensions there indicated that after months of relative calm, hostilities between the two Koreas have begun ratcheting up again. They raised fears that the often-repeated cycle of peace overtures followed by military provocations was resuming on the Korean Peninsula.
这片有争议水域上发生相互发射炮弹的情况并非首次，但这次军事紧张局势的上升暗示，经过了几个月的相对平静期后，朝韩两国之间的敌对情绪再次开始上升。这增加了人们对朝鲜半岛再次进入那种经常出现的、和平姿态之后是军事挑衅的周期的担心。
“Pyongyang prefers to strike when it sees Washington as weak or distracted, beset by bigger problems,” Lee Sung-yoon, a North Korea expert at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, said, referring to the North’s capital.
马萨诸塞州塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)弗莱彻法律与外交学院(Fletcher School of Lawand Diplomacy)朝鲜问题专家李成允(Lee Sung-yoon)说，“平壤喜欢在其认为华盛顿软弱或被分心的时候袭击。”平壤是朝鲜的首都。
President Obama “is seen as wavering on Russia and Syria,” he said. “It would be a good time to raise the stakes once more with a nuclear or long-range missile test, as Pyongyang has intimated in recent days.”
他说，看到奥巴马总统“在俄罗斯和叙利亚问题上举棋不定，这将是一个用核武器或远距离导弹测试来增加筹码的一个好机会，正如平壤最近几天所暗示的那样。”
Citing the joint military exercises Washington and Seoul started in late February as a provocation, North Korea has test-fired a series of rockets and short- and midrange ballistic missiles in recent weeks. The tests prompted the United Nations Security Council to warn last week of new action against the country, which is already under heavy sanctions.
朝鲜称华盛顿和首尔2月底开始举行的联合军事演习是一种挑衅，在最近几周中，已经试发了一系列火箭和中短程弹道导弹。这些测试促使联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)在上周警告说，要对朝鲜采取新的制裁措施，朝鲜已经处在严重制裁之下。
On Sunday, Pyongyang threatened “a new form of nuclear test” and warned that its military would conduct drills aimed at improving its ability to attack mid- and long-range targets with “more diversified nuclear deterrence” and “with a variety of striking power.”
周日，平壤威胁称要进行“一种新的核试验”，并警告说，其军队将进行演习，为的是通过使用“更多元化的核威慑”和“更多元化的攻击力量”，来提高其打击中远程目标的能力。
The two parties in the Korean War never agreed on a western sea border when the three-year conflict ended in a cease-fire in 1953. South Korea tries to defend the so-called northern limit line, which was unilaterally declared by the United Nations. North Korea does not recognize it, claiming another demarcation line farther south.
朝鲜战争在持续了3年之后于1953年停战，当时双方一直没有就两国西部的海上边界划分达成协议。韩国试图捍卫所谓的北方限制线，这是联合国(United Nations)单方面宣布的界限。朝鲜则一直不承认这条界线，而是宣布了一条更靠南的边界线。
Today, the western waters are the most dangerous flash points along the border between North and South Korea. A string of South Korean islands, guarded by marines and heavy artillery, lie just south of the maritime border and within range of North Korean coastal guns and rocket launchers.
如今，朝韩两国的西部水域是朝韩边界线上最危险的导火索。一串有韩国海军陆战队和重炮把守的韩国岛屿就在这段海上边界线的南面，位于朝鲜海岸火炮的射程之内。
The waters were the scene of several naval skirmishes in recent years. In 2010, North Korea fired hundreds of artillery rounds into disputed waters, some of them falling south of the northern limit line. Later that year, it shelled one of the South Korean border islands, killing four people and prompting the South to retaliate with its own barrage against North Korean gun positions.
最近几年中，在这些水域曾发生了几次海上冲突。2010年，朝鲜向有争议水域发射了几百发炮弹，一些炮弹落在北方限制线的南侧。当年晚些时候，朝鲜又向韩国边境内的一个岛屿发射了炮弹，造成4人死亡，迫使韩国采取报复措施，向朝鲜火炮阵地发射了炮弹。
North Korea’s latest hostilities came as the country was preparing for major anniversaries, like the April 15 birthday of Kim Il-sung, the deceased grandfather of the current leader, Kim Jong-un, and the April 25 anniversary of the North Korean military. The North was also scheduled to convene its recently elected rubber-stamp Parliament on April 9.
朝鲜最近几次敌对行动都是在该国准备主要庆典时作出的，比如4月15日的金日成(Kim Il-sung)诞辰纪念日，金日成是朝鲜现任领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的祖父，还有4月25日的朝鲜人民军建军节。朝鲜还将在4月9日召开最近选举出来的橡皮图章议会会议。
The regime traditionally uses such events to bolster internal solidarity, sometimes with the aid of missile and nuclear tests and other provocations.
用这类事件来增强内部团结是朝鲜政府的传统做法，有时候还会借助导弹和核试验、或者其他挑衅行为。
Kim Jong-un, who came to power after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2011, has so far “turned out to be more of a hard-liner and far more bellicose in external relations than his father,” said Cheong Seong-chang, a North Korea expert at Sejong Institute of South Korea.
韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)朝鲜政治制度研究员郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说，迄今为止，金正恩“与他的父亲相比，表现得更强硬，在对外关系上更好斗”。
On Monday, an editorial in the Rodong Sinmun, the official organ of the ruling Workers’ Party in North Korea, urged the country not to succumb to “American nuclear blackmail” but to continue strengthening its nuclear arsenal. The daily published the editorial to mark the first anniversary of a 2013 party meeting in which North Korea adopted the “simultaneous” development of nuclear weapons and the economy as the country’s top policy goal.
朝鲜执政党劳动党的官方报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)周一在一篇社论中呼吁，朝鲜不应屈服于“美国的核讹诈”，而要继续加强自己的核武力。该报的社论发表在2013年一次党的会议一周年之际，在那次会议上，朝鲜把核武器和经济的“同时”发展设立为该国的首要政策目标。
There was no sign of an imminent nuclear test from North Korea, but the South Korean military was operating an emergency response system to promptly handle North Korean provocations, the South Korean defense ministry said.
目前还没有迹象显示朝鲜会马上进行核试验，但韩国军队已经启动了一个紧急响应系统，以便对朝鲜的挑衅及时做出回应，韩国国防部称。