SEOUL, South Korea — As the husband she last saw 65 years ago hugged her on Tuesday, Lee Soon-kyu, an 85-year-old grandmother from South Korea, smiled shyly, like the young bride she once was.
韩国首尔——周二，当阔别65年的丈夫拥抱她时，已经当上祖母的85岁高龄的韩国人李顺圭（Lee Soon-kyu，音）害羞地笑了，就像她年轻时候当新娘那会儿一样。
Ms. Lee had been married to Oh In-se for only seven months and was five months pregnant when the Korean War erupted in 1950. Mr. Oh disappeared into the conflict, ending up in the North when the war was halted three years later by a truce that left the Korean Peninsula divided.
1950年朝鲜战争爆发时，李顺圭和吴延世（Oh In-se，音）刚刚结婚七个月，她还怀着五个月的身孕。吴延世在南北冲突之中失踪，三年后当双方停战、朝鲜半岛陷入分裂时，吴延世被留在了朝鲜。
The spouses did not see each other again until Mr. Oh, now a deeply wrinkled 83-year-old, showed up wearing a black fedora as part of the first reunions of war-separated relatives the rival Koreas have arranged in nearly two years.
夫妇二人从此再也没有见面，直到对立的韩国和朝鲜在将近两年内首次安排战争离散家属团聚活动时，已经83岁的满脸皱纹的吴延世带着一顶黑色软呢帽出现在她面前。
“I can’t tell how much I missed you,” said Ms. Lee, who never remarried and raised her son alone. “I have wept so much thinking of us that there are no tears left in me.”
“你不知道我多想念你，”李顺圭说。她一直没有再婚，独自养大了他们的儿子。“因为想到我们分隔两地，我哭了太多次，眼泪已经哭干了。”
Mr. Oh, holding her hand, said, “My dear, I didn’t know that the war would do this to us.”
吴延世握着她的手说，“亲爱的，我没想到那场战争会让我们这样分开。”
Ms. Lee and the couple’s son, Oh Jang-gyun, 64, were among 389 South Koreans who crossed the heavily armed border into the North in buses and ambulances on Tuesday to meet with 96 elderly North Koreans who wanted to reunite with long-lost relatives for perhaps the only time. Ms. Lee said that after her husband appeared to her in a dream in 1978, she gave him up for dead and began holding an annual ritual for a deceased relative.
包括李顺圭及这对夫妇64岁的儿子吴长均（Oh Jang-gyun，音）在内，有389名韩国人于周二乘坐大巴和救护车越过重兵把守的边境线进入朝鲜，与96名想与长久失散的亲人重聚的朝鲜老人见面。对这些老人来说，这样的机会可能只有这么一次。李顺圭表示，自1978年有一次梦见丈夫，她就放弃了希望，认定他已经去世，并开始每年祭奠他。
The biggest surprise in her life came after the Koreas agreed in September to hold a new round of family reunions and she heard from the South Korean Red Cross that her husband was alive in the North, looking for her. Since then, she had been busy preparing for their meeting, digging up an old wedding photograph and buying a wristwatch as a gift. The couple’s names were inscribed on the back.
她这一生经历的最大的惊喜，就是韩朝今年9月同意举行新一轮离散家庭团聚活动后，她从韩国红十字会得知身处朝鲜的丈夫还活着，还在寻找她。自那以后，她就一直忙着为他们的重聚做准备。她找出一张他们结婚时的老照片，还买了一只手表作为礼物，背面刻上了夫妇两人的名字。
Their time was to be painfully brief. They were granted permission to be together for only 12 hours, in group and private sessions, until Thursday, when they will have to part again. On Thursday, an additional 90 elderly South Koreans will cross the border for another round of three-day reunions with 188 relatives in the North.
他们可以相聚的时间极为短暂，包括集体活动和私人相处的时间在内，总共只有12个小时，到周四就要再度分离。届时，另外90名韩国老人将越过边境，与188名朝鲜离散家属进行为期三天的另一轮重聚活动。
The reunions, at the Diamond Mountain resort in southeastern North Korea, are a rare but highly emotional glimpse at the pain the long political divide on the peninsula has inflicted on families separated by the war. For more than six decades, they have been forbidden to exchange letters, phone calls or emails, much less to meet. While their governments have arranged occasional reunions, they have been limited to a couple of hundred people. The most recent reunions took place in February of last year.
朝鲜半岛长期政治分裂，使得因战争而离散的家庭遭受很多痛苦。在位于朝鲜东南部的金刚山度假地举行的这些重聚活动，是比较少见的得以呈现这种苦痛的机会，其场面让人非常伤感。60多年来，他们不能通信，不能打电话，也不能发邮件，更不用说相见。尽管两国政府偶尔会安排重聚活动，但名额有限，每次只有数百人。距今最近的相聚活动发生在去年2月。
Lee Ok-yeon, 88, declined to hold the hands of her North Korean husband, Chae Hoon-shik, 88, calling that “pointless” after such a long separation, according to reports by South Korean journalists from Diamond Mountain. But her 65-year-old South Korean son, Hee-yang, hugged his father in tears.
在韩国记者自金刚山发回的报道中，88岁的李玉妍（Lee Ok-yeon，音）不愿握丈夫——88岁的朝鲜人蔡勋植（Chae Hoon-shik，音）——的手，她说经历了这么长时间的分离，那么做“没什么意义”。但她65岁的儿子、韩国人熙阳（Hee-yang，音）含泪拥抱了自己的父亲。
“Father, I am your son,” he said.
“父亲，我是您的儿子，”他说。
The hall where the reunions took place echoed with weeping and laughter as siblings hugged one another and graying children buried their tearful faces in the laps of parents who had shown up in wheelchairs, barely recognizing them. A 65-year-old South Korean, Shin Yeon-ja, told her North Korean father, Jong Se-hwan, 87, that his wife was still alive in the South but too weak to make the cross-border journey.
举办团聚活动的大厅回响着哭泣和欢笑声，兄弟姐妹们相互拥抱，头发花白的老人满脸是泪地趴在坐着轮椅的父母身上，后者却几乎认不出自己的孩子了。65岁的韩国人申妍子（Shin Yeon-ja，音）告诉父亲——87岁的朝鲜人郑世焕（Jong Se-hwan，音）——他的韩国妻子依然在世，但是身体太虚弱，无法参加这场越境重聚之旅。
On Tuesday, two elderly South Korean women had to be taken across the border in ambulances so they could reunite with brothers from the North.
周二，两名上了年纪的韩国老妇人不得不乘着救护车越过边境，以便和在朝鲜的兄弟们重聚。
South Korea has repeatedly called for more reunions, which are widely viewed as a barometer of relations. But given the fluctuating political tensions on the peninsula, only 18,800 Koreans have been allowed to participate in 19 face-to-face reunions since 1985, when the first gatherings were held.
韩国多次呼吁双方举办更多团聚活动。此事被外界普遍看作韩朝关系的晴雨表。但鉴于朝鲜半岛不稳定的政治局势，自1985年第一次举办此类活动以来，两国仅进行了19次面对面的重聚，共计只有1.88万韩国和朝鲜人参加。
More than half of the 66,000 South Koreans waiting for reunions are in their 80s or older. South Korea selects the candidates for reunions by lottery, while the North is believed to give priority to people deemed loyal to the government.
还在等待重聚机会韩国人达6.6万，超过一半在80岁以上。韩国是以随机抽取的方式选择参加团聚活动的人，而外界认为，朝鲜将优先机会给予了那些在政府看来比较忠诚的人。
On Tuesday, some visitors from the South carried prewar photographs to help their siblings recognize them. They had also packed photographs of their hometowns and of the grave sites of dead relatives, as well as underwear, medicine, cash and other gifts.
周二的时候，从韩国来参加重聚活动的人带着了战前的照片，以便兄弟姐妹们辨认自己。他们也带着故乡和已逝亲属墓地的照片，还有内衣、药品、现金及其他礼物。
The South Korean delegation’s crossing was delayed briefly when North Korean border guards demanded to hold the laptop computers of South Korean reporters overnight for inspection. The reporters resisted the demand but let the officials search through their computers while they watched.
韩国代表团穿越边境时曾被短暂耽搁，当时朝鲜边防官兵要求收走韩国记者的笔记本电脑进行检查，第二天再予以返还。韩国记者们拒绝了这个要求，不过他们同意在自己在一旁观看的情况下，让朝方现场搜查了电脑。