WASHINGTON — Behind the Trump administration’s sudden urgency in dealing with the North Korean nuclear crisis lies a stark calculus: a growing body of expert studies and classified intelligence reports that conclude the country is capable of producing a nuclear bomb every six or seven weeks.
华盛顿——特朗普政府突然急于应对北朝鲜核危机的背后，是一个令人触目惊心的估算：越来越多的专家研究和机密情报显示，该国每六到七周就可以造出一枚核弹。
That acceleration in pace — impossible to verify until experts get beyond the limited access to North Korean facilities that ended years ago — explains why President Trump and his aides fear they are running out of time. For years, American presidents decided that each incremental improvement in the North’s program — another nuclear test, a new variant of a missile — was worrisome, but not worth a confrontation that could spill into open conflict.
朝鲜步伐的加快无法得到验证，除非专家可以更多更深入地考察朝鲜的核设施，但从几年前开始，就算是有限的考察都已经被中止——这就解释了为什么特朗普及其助手担心时间不够了。多年来，美国总统一直认为，朝鲜核计划的每一个渐进式改进——又一次核试验，推出一枚新型导弹——虽然令人担忧，但是不值得升级为冲突。
Now those step-by-step advances have resulted in North Korean warheads that in a few years could reach Seattle. “They’ve learned a lot,” said Siegfried S. Hecker, a Stanford professor who directed the Los Alamos weapons laboratory in New Mexico, the birthplace of the atomic bomb, from 1986 to 1997, and whom the North Koreans have let into their facilities seven times.
现在，这些逐步改进已经使得朝鲜的弹头不出几年就可以打到西雅图了。“他们学会了很多东西，”斯坦福大学(Stanford University)教授西格夫里·S·赫克(Siegfried S. Hecker)说。在1986年至1997年间，赫克是原子弹诞生地新墨西哥州洛斯阿拉莫斯武器实验室(Los Alamos)的主任，而且他曾获准进入朝鲜的相关设施考察过七次。
North Korea is now threatening another nuclear test, which would be its sixth in 11 years. The last three tests — the most recent was in September — generated Hiroshima-size explosions. It is unclear how Mr. Trump would react to a test, but he told representatives of the United Nations Security Council at the White House on Monday that they should be prepared to pass far more restrictive sanctions, which American officials say should include cutting off energy supplies.
朝鲜现在威胁要开展另外一次核试验，这将是11年来的第6次。之前三次测试——最近一次是去年9月——具有类似广岛大爆炸的威力。目前尚不清楚特朗普将对测试作出怎样的回应，但周一他在白宫对联合国安理会的代表说，他们应该为通过更多的限制性制裁做好准备，美国官员说，制裁中应该有切断能源供应这一条。
“People have put blindfolds on for decades, and now it’s time to solve the problem,” Mr. Trump said.
特朗普说：“几十年来，人们对此视而不见，现在是解决问题的时候了。”
He made his remarks after a Sunday night phone call on North Korea with Xi Jinping, China’s president, who urged Mr. Trump to show “restraint” with North Korea, according to a Chinese television report. White House officials said little about the call, and aides are trying to use Mr. Trump’s unpredictability to the greatest advantage, hoping it will keep the Chinese off balance and deter the North Koreans.
他是在周日晚上与中国国家主席习近平通电话讨论朝鲜问题之后说这番话的，据一家中国的电视台报道，习近平当时呼吁特朗普对朝鲜“克制”。白宫官员对这通电话所言甚少，助手们试图利用特朗普的不可预测性来获得最大的优势，希望这可以让中国人始终摸不透美国的牌，并对朝鲜施压。
A Bomb for Survival
为生存而研制的炸弹
Inside the C.I.A., they call it “the disco ball.”
中情局内部称之为“迪斯科球”。
It is a round, metallic sphere, covered by small circles, that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, is shown caressing in official photographs as if it were his crown jewel. And it may be: The sphere is supposedly a nuclear weapon, shrunken to fit inside the nose cone of one of the country’s growing arsenal of missiles.
在官方照片中，这是一个圆形的金属球，上面还覆盖着小圆圈，朝鲜领导人金正恩对它爱抚有加，仿佛那是他皇冠上的珠宝。这个球体据说是一枚缩小的核武器，以便搭载在该国日益增多的导弹的头锥里。
American intelligence officials still debate whether it is a real bomb or a mock-up that is part of the country’s vast propaganda effort. But it is intended to show where the country is headed.
美国情报官员仍然在争论，朝鲜拥有的究竟是真正的核弹，还是仅仅是个仿制品，作为该国大规模宣传工作的一部分。但是它意在显示该国的前进方向。
Unless something changes, North Korea’s arsenal may well hit 50 weapons by the end of Mr. Trump’s term, about half the size of Pakistan’s. American officials say the North already knows how to shrink those weapons so they can fit atop one of its short- to medium-range missiles — putting South Korea and Japan, and the thousands of American troops deployed in those two nations, within range. The best estimates are that North Korea has roughly 1,000 ballistic missiles in eight or so varieties.
除非事情发生变化，在特朗普任期结束前，朝鲜会拥有50枚核弹，大约是巴基斯坦的一半。美国官员说，朝鲜已经知道如何缩小这些武器的尺寸，以便搭载到短程、中程导弹上——韩国、日本以及在这两个国家部署的数千名美军就在这些导弹的射程之内。根据尽可能准确的估计，朝鲜大约有1000枚弹道导弹，属于八种不同的类型。
But fulfilling Mr. Kim’s dream — putting a nuclear weapon atop an intercontinental ballistic missile that can reach Seattle or Los Angeles, or one day New York — remains a more complex problem.
但是，实现金正恩的梦想——将核武器搭载到可以打到西雅图或洛杉矶，甚至有一天直达纽约的洲际弹道导弹上——仍然是一个非常复杂的问题。
As Dr. Hecker, a man who has built his share of nuclear weapons, noted last week, any weapon that could travel that far would have to be “smaller, lighter and surmount the additional difficulties of the stresses and temperatures” of a fiery re-entry into the atmosphere.
亲自造过核武器的赫克博士上周指出，任何射程那么远的武器都必须“更小、更轻，并且还要克服压力和温度上的更多困难”，因为它需要返回大气层。
By most estimates, that is four or five years away. Then again, many senior officials said the same four or five years ago.
大多数人估计，解决这些问题需要四五年时间。但是话又说回来，四五年前，很多高级官员也是这么说的。
But the North has come farther than most experts expected since the infancy of its program in the 1950s, when the Soviet Union began training North Korean scientists in nuclear basics.
1950年代，苏联开始在核基础领域培养朝鲜科学家，朝鲜的核计划得以发芽，但是在那之后，朝鲜的进展远远超出了大多数专家的预期。
It took three decades for the North to assemble the technology it needed to make its own bomb fuel. Finally, from a reactor at Yongbyon, it succeeded in making plutonium: enough for about one atomic bomb a year.
朝鲜花了30年时间累积起来了自主制造核弹燃料所需的技术。最后，他们在宁边的一个反应堆成功地制造了钚：每年足以制造大约一枚原子弹。
The first North Korean nuclear crisis, in 1994, ended in an agreement with the Clinton administration to freeze the North’s production facilities in return for oil and peaceful reactors. It fell apart early in the George W. Bush administration. In 2006, the first test explosion, while unimpressive, entered North Korea into the club of nuclear powers. Analysts say the first blast was a plutonium bomb, as was a second detonation just months into the Obama administration in 2009.
1994年的第一次朝鲜核危机结束了它与克林顿政府之间的协议：冻结朝鲜的核生产设施，以换取石油以及和平反应堆。在布什政府早期，这个协议分崩离析。2006年，朝鲜进行了第一次核测试，虽然表现不佳，却让朝鲜进入了核俱乐部。分析人士说，该国第一次核爆测试使用的是钚炸弹，2009年奥巴马政府上台没几个月，朝鲜进行的第二次核实验也是如此。
Mr. Hecker visited Yongbyon in 2010, and the North Koreans showed him a complete uranium enrichment facility, which American intelligence agencies had missed. The message was clear: The North now had two pathways to a bomb, uranium and plutonium. Today, it has an arsenal made up of both, intelligence officials believe.
赫克在2010年访问了宁边，朝鲜人向他展示了一个完整的铀浓缩设施，美国情报机构之前并未掌握该设施的情况。朝鲜的信息很明确：该国现在有两条路径通往核弹——铀和钚。情报官员认为，这两种核弹朝鲜如今都已经掌握。
And it is aiming for something much bigger: a hydrogen bomb, with a destructive force up to 1,000 times greater than ordinary nuclear weapons. That is exactly the path the United States took in the 1950s.
朝鲜的目标是更厉害的氢弹，因为它比普通核武器的破外力高出1000倍。而这也正是美国在1950年代选择的路径。
Recently, United Nations investigators found evidence that the North’s factories had succeeded in producing lithium 6, a rare ingredient needed to make thermonuclear fuel. Gregory S. Jones, a scientist at the RAND Corporation, said the North might have already used bits of thermonuclear fuel in its 2016 detonations.
最近，联合国调查人员发现证据显示，朝鲜工厂已经成功地生产出了锂6，它是制造热核燃料所需的稀有成分。兰德公司(RAND Corporation)的科学家格雷戈里·S·琼斯(Gregory S. Jones)说，朝鲜可能在2016年的爆炸测试中使用了少量的热核燃料。
A potential clue, analysts say, is that the North’s five blasts over the past decade have grown steadily more destructive.
分析人士说，一个潜在的线索是，朝鲜过去10年进行的5次爆炸测试，破坏性一次比一次大。
The Hard Part: Shrinking the Bomb
大问题：缩小核弹尺寸
A bomb is useless to North Korea — as an offensive weapon or as a deterrent — unless the country can make a convincing case that it has a reliable delivery system. So when the North flaunts missiles at military parades, as it did on April 15, the stars of the show tend to be the big missiles that are designed to reach Washington and New York. While several intercontinental ballistic missiles rolled down the streets of Pyongyang, conducting a flight test that proves one could fly that far, and land with accuracy, is so far only an aspiration.
作为一种进攻性武器或者是威慑力量，除非可以令人信服地拿出一个可靠的运载系统，核弹本身对朝鲜来说意义不大。所以当朝鲜在阅兵仪式中展示导弹时，比如在4月15日的时候，其中的明星往往是设计用来打击华盛顿和纽约的大型导弹。虽然有几枚洲际弹道导弹在平壤的街头参加了游行，但是开展一次飞行试验来证明它的射程以及打击精度，到目前为止仅仅是朝鲜的愿望而已。
Missing from the parade were the short- and medium-range missiles that have been successfully flight tested. American intelligence agencies believe some of those can carry operational nuclear arms. The critical one is the Nodong, which has a range of about 800 miles.
阅兵式中没有展示已经成功试射的短程和中程导弹。美国情报机构认为，其中一些导弹可以运载核武器。比如关键的“劳动”导弹(Nodong)，其射程约为800英里（约合1300公里）。
But the North Koreans are discovering — as the United States, the Soviet Union and China did before them — that it is far more complicated to design an intercontinental missile. With that weapons system, a warhead would move at four miles a second and re-enter the atmosphere in fiery heat — so, if badly engineered, it would burn up long before hitting a target. To reach their goal, North Korean weapons designers are looking to miniaturize their warheads, making them far lighter and more powerful.
但是朝鲜发现——正如美国、苏联和中国之前的经历一样——设计洲际导弹要复杂得多。洲际导弹会运载着弹头以每秒4英里（约合6.5公里）的速度移动，在很高的温度中重新进入大气层，所以如果设计得不好，那么在击中目标之前就会烧起来。为了击中目标，朝鲜的武器设计师正在试图缩小弹头的尺寸，让它变得更轻巧、更强大。
The big effort these days is to merge two technologies: Get a missile that can cross the Pacific, and marry it to a warhead that can survive the ride. And this is why the United States is so desperate to stop the cycle of testing.
如今朝鲜付诸巨大努力，想要把一枚可以穿越太平洋的导弹，和一枚可以挺过这个过程的核弹结合起来。这就是为什么美国如此急切地希望终止这一轮测试的原因。
The cyber- and electronic warfare attacks that President Barack Obama ordered against the country’s missile fleet were intended to slow North Korea’s learning curve. The Musudan, which can travel 2,200 miles, has racked up an embarrassing failure rate of 88 percent — although how much of that is due to incompetence or outside meddling is not known. Until the North Koreans figure out what is going wrong, and how to fix it, they appear hesitant to test the KN-14 and the KN-08, both of which are designed to hit the continental United States.
奥巴马总统下令对朝鲜的导弹部队开展网络和电子战攻击，以减缓朝鲜的学习曲线。射程可达2200英里（约合3540公里）的舞水端(Musudan)导弹失败率达到了令人尴尬的88%——究竟是因为技术不过硬还是外部干扰所致，目前不得而知。朝鲜人在没有弄清楚出了什么问题，以及如何解决问题之前，似乎对于测试KN-14和KN-08有些犹豫不决，这两种导弹都是为了打击美国大陆而设计的。
The diplomatic pressure from China to stop a sixth nuclear test at the Punggye-ri test site is intended to keep the North Koreans from making advances in warhead miniaturization and the design of a hydrogen bomb. As Mr. Obama noted before he left office, even failures are important learning tools for the North Koreans, aiding the trial-and-error process of making new warheads.
中国为了让朝鲜停止在丰溪里试验场进行第六次核试验所施加的外交压力，正是意在阻止朝鲜在弹头小型化和氢弹设计方面取得进展。正如奥巴马在离任之前所指出的那样，即使是失败的测试，对于朝鲜也是重要的学习工具，对生产新弹头的试错过程很有帮助。
How long will it take for the North Koreans to solve those problems? The best guesswork is around 2020 — while Mr. Trump is still in his first term.
朝鲜要解决这些问题需要多长时间？最佳猜测是在2020年左右，那时特朗普的第一个任期还没有结束。
A Freeze, but to What End?
冻结核实验，但目的是什么？
The strategy emerging from Mr. Trump’s national security team comes down to this: Apply overwhelming pressure on the North, both military and economic, to freeze its testing and reduce its stockpile. Then use that opening to negotiate, with the ultimate goal of getting the North Koreans to give up all their weapons.
特朗普国家安全团队显现出来的战略可以归结为：对朝鲜施加压倒性的军事和经济压力，让他们冻结核试验并减少库存。然后利用这个打开的缺口进行谈判，最终目标是让朝鲜人放弃所有的核武器。
Many experts, however, believe that is a fantasy, because Mr. Kim regards even a small arsenal as critical to his survival. The upside of the strategy, if it works, is that the “nuclear freeze” would delay for years the day the North can fit a small, reliable, well-tested weapon atop a large, reliable, well-tested missile. The downside is that it would leave the North Koreans with a small, potent arsenal — one the United States would be essentially acknowledging, if not accepting.
不过很多专家认为这是一个幻想，因为金正恩认为，就连一个小武库对他的生存来说都至关重要。这个战略如果奏效了，好处就是“核冻结”可以令朝鲜把一个小型的、可靠的、经过良好测试的核武器搭载在大型的、可靠的、经过良好测试的导弹的时间推迟数年。坏处是，朝鲜人会拥有一个规模虽小但很强大的武器库——美国可能不接受这个事实，但其实也是承认其存在的。
That is why it will be hard for Mr. Trump to fulfill his vow to “solve this problem.” And every day, there is the chance of miscalculation, or an accident.
这就是特朗普难以兑现“解决这个问题”的承诺的原因。而且每天都有可能出现误判或意外。
At any moment, Dr. Hecker said on a call to reporters organized by the Union of Concerned Scientists, a live weapon could turn into an accidental nuclear detonation or some other catastrophe.
赫克在接受忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)组织的记者采访时说，真枪实弹任何时候都可能会演变成一场意外的核爆炸或一些其他灾难。
“I happen to believe,” he said, “the crisis is here now.”
“我倒是认为，”他说，“危机已经到来了。”