SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea launched an intermediate-range ballistic missile into high altitude on Wednesday morning, demonstrating that the country was making progress after five consecutive failures in just over two months, South Korean analysts said.
韩国首尔——韩国分析人士说，朝鲜周三上午将一枚中程弹道导弹发射进入高空，这表明，在两个多月里接连经历了五次失败之后，朝鲜取得了进步。
The projectile, a Musudan missile, took off from Wonsan, a port city east of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew about 250 miles over the sea between North Korea and Japan, South Korea’s Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement.
韩国参谋长联席会议办公室在一份声明中说，这枚“舞水端”导弹是从朝鲜首都平壤以东的港口城市元山发射的，导弹在朝鲜与日本之间的水域上空飞行了约250英里（约400公里）。
Although the missile fell far short of its estimated full range of more than 2,000 miles — far enough to reach American military bases in the Pacific — the test is the first for the Musudan that was not immediately dismissed as a failure by the United States or South Korea.
虽然导弹远未达到其2000英里以上的估计射程，让其能袭击美国在太平洋地区的军事基地，但这次测试是没有马上被美国和韩国宣布为失败的首次“舞水端”发射。
South Korea said that in the North’s previous five Musudan tests, including one earlier on Wednesday, the projectiles had all crashed into the sea or exploded in midair soon after liftoff.
韩国表示，朝鲜此前的五次“舞水端”测试，包括周三早些时候发射的那枚，导弹头都在升空后不久就坠入大海或在半空中爆炸。
The progress the North demonstrated with its sixth test was disconcerting enough for South Korea to convene a meeting of top security-related ministers later on Wednesday to discuss the growing missile and nuclear threats.
朝鲜在其第六次测试中展现的进度令韩国足够地不安，以至于韩国在周三晚些时候召开了与安全有关的部长级会议，讨论朝鲜导弹和核武器的不断增长的威胁。
Jeong Joon-hee, a spokesman for the South Korean government, called the launch a “clear provocation” that violated United Nations Security Council resolutions banning the North from developing ballistic missile technology.
韩国政府发言人郑浚熙（Jeong Joon-hee，音）称发射是“明显的挑衅”，违反了联合国安理会禁止朝鲜研发弹道导弹技术的决议。
In Washington, John Kirby, a State Department spokesman, said that the United States strongly condemned the tests and intended to discuss the North’s prohibited activities at the Security Council.
美国国务院发言人约翰·柯比(John Kirby)在华盛顿表示，美国强烈谴责测试，并打算在安理会上讨论朝鲜从事被禁活动的问题。
“This missile launch, like previous ones, is a clear violation of United Nations resolutions,” said Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan. “We cannot tolerate it and have protested firmly.”
“这次导弹发射，与以前的一样，明显违反了联合国决议，”日本首相安倍晋三说。“我们不能容忍、并坚决抗议这种行为。”
The Japanese Defense Ministry said it believed that the test showed that the North’s missile technology was advancing. The second of the two missiles fired on Wednesday had reached an altitude of 620 miles, it said, “indicating a degree of capability as a midrange ballistic missile.”
日本防卫省表示，防卫省认为，这次试验表明，朝鲜的导弹技术正在向前推进。周三发射的两枚导弹的第二枚升到了620英里的高度，防卫省称，“表明其具有一定程度的中程弹道导弹能力。”
South Korean analysts said that North Korea appeared to have launched the second missile at a sharper angle to achieve a higher altitude and prevent it from flying over Japan. They said such an altitude was required to test a technology that protects a nuclear warhead from the extreme heat and friction that it would encounter upon crashing through the earth’s atmosphere.
韩国分析人士说，朝鲜看来用了更高的射角发射第二枚导弹，这是为了让其达到更高的高度，也为了防止其飞越日本上空。他们说，这种高度对测试一种技术是必要的，该技术保护核弹头在穿越地球大气层时免受极端高温和摩擦损耗。
The North began testing the Musudan on April 15, after repeated calls by its leader, Kim Jong-un, for his military to conduct more nuclear and missile tests despite international sanctions. It has also repeatedly threatened nuclear strikes against the United States, claiming that it has built nuclear weapons small enough to be mounted on its various ballistic missiles.
尽管有国际制裁，朝鲜领导人金正恩仍多次呼吁军队进行更多的核武器和导弹测试，朝鲜从今年4月15日开始测试“舞水端”导弹。朝鲜还多次威胁对美国进行核打击，声称已制造出足够小的核弹头，能安装在朝鲜的各种弹道导弹上。
The country has successfully tested its short-range Scud and midrange Rodong missiles. The Rodong, with an estimated range of 810 miles, can reach all of South Korea and most of Japan. But the road-mobile Musudan is the North’s only intermediate-range ballistic missile with a range long enough to reach United States military bases in Guam, a major launching pad for American reinforcements should a war break out on the Korean Peninsula.
朝鲜已成功测试了短程的飞毛腿和中程的“劳动”导弹。“劳动”导弹的估计射程为810英里，能达到韩国所有地方、以及日本的大部分地区。但是，车载的“舞水端”导弹是朝鲜唯一的远程弹道导弹，其射程范围足以达到位于关岛的美国军事基地，一旦朝鲜半岛爆发战争，该基地是美国增援部队的主要出发点。
Analysts say the North has been struggling to master the so-called warhead re-entry technology needed to build longer-range projectiles known as intercontinental ballistic missiles.
分析人士说，朝鲜一直在努力掌握所谓的弹头再入技术，该技术是制造射程更远的洲际弹道导弹所必需的。
The altitude reached on Wednesday was the highest achieved by any North Korean missile and close to heights reached by intercontinental ballistic missiles, analysts said.
周三测试所达到的高度是朝鲜所有的导弹能达到的最高高度，已接近洲际弹道导弹的高度，分析人士说。
“I don’t believe North Korea failed again and again in testing the Musudan itself, which it had deployed 10 years ago,” said Kim Dong-yup, an analyst at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies at Kyungnam University in Seoul. “What it has been trying to do with such difficulty was to use the Musudan as a vehicle to test the re-entry and detonation system for an ICBM.”
“我不认为朝鲜在测试舞水端导弹本身时一次又一次地失败，朝鲜在10年前就部署了这种导弹，”首尔庆南大学(Kyungnam University)远东研究所的分析师金东烨（Kim Dong-yup，音）说。“朝鲜一直试图在做的、并遇到许多困难的事情是把舞水端作为载体，来测试洲际弹道导弹的再入和引爆系统。”
If North Korea had launched the Musudan at a normal angle, it would have flown farther than the 250 miles it covered on Wednesday, said Lee Choon-geun, an expert on North Korean missiles at the Science and Technology Policy Institute of South Korea. Mr. Lee said that by launching the missile at a sharper angle, North Korea could also have it fall closer to its territory so it could collect the test data more easily.
如果朝鲜用更常用的角度发射舞水端的话，导弹会飞到比其在周三覆盖的250英里更远的距离，韩国科学技术政策研究所(Science and Technology Policy Institute of South Korea)的朝鲜导弹问题专家李椿根（Lee Choon-geun，音）说。李椿根说，用更高的射角发射该导弹，朝鲜也可以让其在离本土更近的海域跌落，以便能更容易地收集测试数据。
“What we don’t know is how the re-entry test went, whether the warhead’s flight was properly controlled and whether it was detonated with the correct timing or just plunged into the sea,” Mr. Lee said.
“我们不知道的是，再入试验的结果如何，弹头的飞行是否有适当的控制，是否按照正确的时间引爆，还是简单地坠入了大海，”李椿根说。
North Korea’s missiles have seldom worked on the first try, but a string of five successive failures with the Musudan was unusual even by the country’s checkered standards. Analysts have attributed the failures to Mr. Kim. In his rush to demonstrate an ability to strike American military bases, they said, Mr. Kim was not giving his engineers enough time to fix problems before retesting.
朝鲜的导弹很少第一次测试就成功，但即使用该国成功与失败共存的标准来看，舞水端连续五次的失败也很不正常。分析人士把失败的原因归咎于金正恩。他们说，由于急于证明朝鲜拥有打击美国军事基地的能力，金正恩没有让他的工程师们有足够的时间，在重新测试前解决发现的问题。
The United States Strategic Command said that the two Musudan missiles fired on Wednesday posed no threat to North America.
美国战略司令部(The United States Strategic Command)表示，周三发射两枚舞水端导弹不对北美构成威胁。
But North Korea’s persistence in testing the same missile model six times since mid-April showed that it was determined to build a capacity to develop a ballistic missile that would extend the striking range for its nuclear warheads.
但是，朝鲜自从4月中旬以来坚持测试相同类型的导弹已经六次了，这表明了朝鲜建设研发弹道导弹、延伸其核武器射程能力的决心。