SEOUL, South Korea — Two days after President Trump re-designated North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism, the country responded on Wednesday by calling the decision “a serious provocation” and vowed to keep up its nuclear and missile programs as a deterrent against the “hostile” United States.
韩国首尔——在特朗普总统再次将朝鲜列为支持恐怖主义国家两天后，朝鲜周三做出回应，称这一决定是“严重挑衅”，并发誓要加强其核武器和导弹计划，作为遏制“敌朝”美国的力量。
“The U.S., the kingpin of all kinds of terrorism who cannot even prevent terror in its own territory, is acting like an ‘international judge on terrorism’ while attaching or removing the label of ‘state sponsor of terrorism’ on sovereign countries,” a spokesman of the North’s Foreign Ministry told its official Korean Central News Agency. “This is a serious provocation and a violent infringement upon our dignified country.”
“一切恐怖主义的元凶——美国连把自家内部产生的恐怖活动都没能防止，却认为自己是‘国际恐怖主义法官’，”朝鲜外务省发言人对该国官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)表示。“（给朝鲜贴上“支恐国家“标签，）是对尊严的朝鲜的严重挑衅、粗暴侵害。”
The comments were North Korea’s first official reaction to Mr. Trump’s decision on Monday to restore the country to Washington’s list of terrorism-sponsoring states, along with Iran, Sudan and Syria. On Tuesday, the Treasury Department announced a new round of sanctions to impede the North’s nuclear and ballistic missile program, targeting North Korean companies and ships.
此番言论是朝鲜首次正式回应特朗普周一决定让朝鲜重回华盛顿的支持恐怖主义国家名单一事。该名单上还有伊朗、苏丹和叙利亚。周二，美国财政部宣布了新一轮制裁，以期阻止朝鲜的核武器和导弹计划。制裁的目标是朝鲜的公司和船只。
The re-listing raised fears in the region that North Korea might take it as an excuse to resume weapons tests. It last launched a missile on Sept. 15.
再次将朝鲜列入支恐名单引发了该地区各方对朝鲜可能会以此为借口，恢复武器试验的担忧。朝鲜最后一次发射导弹是在9月15日。
On Wednesday, the unidentified North Korean spokesman did not mention any direct threat to launch missiles. But he said that the North’s “deterrence will be further strengthened” — and that the country “must continue to keep the treasured nuclear sword in our hands more tightly” — as long as Washington continued with its “hostile policy” against the North.
周三当天，这位身份不明的朝鲜发言人没有直接威胁要发射导弹。但他说，只要美国继续实行“敌朝政策”，朝鲜的“遏制力就会进一步加强”，并且朝鲜必须“继续紧握核宝剑”。
He said that the re-designation reflected Washington’s “intention to destroy our ideology and system,” and that its army and people were “hardening their will to settle all accounts with those gangsters at any time in any way.”
他说，华盛顿将朝鲜重新列为支恐国家，反映了其想要“扼杀朝鲜的思想和制度”，朝鲜军民“坚定了在任何时候以任何方式同这些匪徒清算的决心”。