SEOUL, South Korea — For a second time, North Korea has rescinded an invitation for a special American envoy to visit Pyongyang, the capital, to seek the release of Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American Christian missionary held in the country for over a year, the State Department said on Sunday.
韩国首尔——美国国务院于周日表示，朝鲜第二次取消了对美国特使的访朝邀请，该特使原本要访问朝鲜首都平壤，意在争取韩裔美国基督教传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)获释，后者已被朝鲜扣押了一年多。
In blocking the trip by Ambassador Robert King, Washington’s special envoy on North Korean human rights, North Korea again appeared to blame the tensions it said were caused by military exercises that the United States and South Korea are scheduled to begin this month.
阻止美国朝鲜人权事务特使罗伯特·金(Robert King)大使访朝时，朝鲜似乎再一次把取消邀请归咎于紧张的局势。朝鲜称，是计划于本月启动的美韩联合军演触发了紧张的局势。
“We are deeply disappointed by the D.P.R.K. decision — for a second time — to rescind its invitation for Ambassador King to travel to Pyongyang to discuss Kenneth Bae’s release,” said Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, using the acronym of the North’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. She pointed out that North Korea “announced publicly in May it would not use the fate of Kenneth Bae as a political bargaining chip.”
“DPRK决定取消请金大使前往平壤讨论肯尼斯·裴释放事宜的邀请，我们对此深感失望，这已经是第二次了。”国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)表示，DPRK是朝鲜官方国名的首字母缩写。她指出，朝鲜“曾于去年5月公开宣称，不会把肯尼斯·裴的命运用作政治筹码。”
Mr. Bae, speaking on Friday to a pro-North Korean newspaper based in Japan from his penal labor camp outside Pyongyang, said he had heard that Mr. King was to visit North Korea as early as this week to discuss his fate.
上周五，肯尼斯·裴在平壤市外的劳役营对一家亲朝的日本报刊表示，他听说金最早会在本周访朝，讨论他的命运。
He told the newspaper, Choson Sinbo, that Pyongyang had extended an invitation to Mr. King. North Korea abruptly canceled a similar invitation for Mr. King in August, citing the military exercises as its reason.
他对这家名为《朝鲜新报》(Choson Sinbo)的报刊说，平壤已延展了对金的邀请。去年8月，朝鲜以美韩军事演习为由，突然取消了对金的类似邀请。
The exercises are “transparent, regularly scheduled and defense-oriented,” Ms. Psaki said. “These exercises are in no way linked to Mr. Bae’s case. We again call on the D.P.R.K. to grant Bae special amnesty and immediate release as a humanitarian gesture so he may reunite with his family and seek medical care.”
普萨基说，这些演习都“以防御为目标，是透明的常规性演习。它们和肯尼斯·裴的案子毫无联系。我们再次呼吁DPRK做出人道主义表示，特赦肯尼斯·裴并将他立即释放，以便他与家人团聚并接受治疗。”
She said Washington maintained its longstanding offer to send Mr. King to North Korea. Separately, under a request from Mr. Bae’s family, the Rev. Jesse Jackson offered to travel to Pyongyang on a humanitarian mission to help win Mr. Bae’s release, she said.
普萨基表示，华盛顿坚持长期以来的提议，愿意派金前往朝鲜。她还表示，应肯尼斯·裴家人之请，杰西·杰克逊牧师(Jesse Jackson)也表示愿意前往平壤执行人道主义任务，协助肯尼斯·裴获释。
A resident of Washington State, Mr. Bae was arrested after he entered North Korea through the northeastern city of Rason with a group of visitors in November 2012. Using a tourism business as a cover, he was trying to build a covert proselytizing operation in Rason, according to a videotaped sermon he gave at a St. Louis church in 2011.
2012年11月，华盛顿州居民肯尼斯·裴和一群游客经由朝鲜北部城市罗先进入朝鲜，随后被捕。他2011年在圣路易斯一座教堂布道的视频表明，他试图用一家旅游公司作掩护，在罗先建立地下宣教组织。
Mr. Bae was convicted of plotting to “destroy our system through religious activities against our republic,” according to North Korea’s authoritarian government, which has been in a suspended state of war with the United States for more than 60 years.
60多年来一直与美国剑拔弩张的朝鲜威权政府称，肯尼斯·裴的罪名是阴谋“通过反朝鲜的宗教活动来摧毁我们的体制”。
He was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor.
他被判处15年劳役。
Mr. Bae, who had been convalescing in a Pyongyang hospital since the summer with various health problems, was transferred back to the penal work farm about three weeks ago, according to his family and Choson Sinbo.
据肯尼斯·裴的家人和《朝鲜新报》称，从去年夏天开始，肯尼斯·裴便因多种健康问题而在平壤一家医院疗养，并在大约三周前被送回了劳改农场。
North Korea condemns any joint Washington-Seoul military exercises as a rehearsal for invasion. The two allies plan to begin their annual drills in the last week of this month. North Korea cited them when it threatened last week to revoke its agreement to hold family reunions with South Korea this month. The reunions would allow relatives separated by the 1950-53 Korean War to meet for the first time in six decades.
朝鲜谴责称，美国和韩国的所有联合军演都是为侵略进行的彩排。互为盟友的美韩两国计划在本月最后一周开始每年一次的军事演习。上周威胁要取消本月同韩国举行家人团聚活动的协议时，朝鲜便提到了这些演习。如果家人团聚活动得以举行，那些因1950至1953年间朝鲜战争而分离的亲友将实现六十年来的第一次重逢。