SEOUL, South Korea — The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, said his country would soon conduct another nuclear test and also flight-test ballistic missiles capable of carrying a nuclear warhead, the country’s state-run news media reported on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——据朝鲜官方新闻媒体周二报道，该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)声称朝鲜将很快再次进行核试验，也会试飞可运载核弹头的弹道导弹。
If Mr. Kim follows through with those threats, that would mean that North Korea was readying its fifth nuclear test and was preparing to conduct more missile launchings in defiance of the sanctions resolution the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted this month against the country.
如果金正恩落实这些威胁，就意味着朝鲜将会无视联合国安理会本月一致达成的制裁决议，准备进行第五次核试验并试射更多导弹。
Mr. Kim declared that “a nuclear warhead explosion test and a test-fire of several kinds of ballistic rockets able to carry nuclear warheads will be conducted in a short time to further enhance the reliance of nuclear attack capability,” the North’s official Korean Central News Agency reported on Tuesday.
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社周二报道，金正恩宣布，“为了提升核打击能力的可靠性，将在短期内进行核弹头爆炸试验和可以携带核弹头的各种弹道火箭试射。”
Mr. Kim made the comments while observing officials conducting a simulation test of re-entry technology, the news agency said. The technology is needed for a warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile to survive heat and turbulence while plunging through the atmosphere toward its target.
朝中社表示，金正恩是在视察官方进行飞行器重返大气层模拟测试时，做出的上述言论。装载于洲际弹道导弹上的核弹头需要具备上述技术，才能抵御穿越大气层、飞向打击目标时会出现的高温和气流震荡。
Although North Korea has repeatedly threatened to launch nuclear strikes against the United States, officials and analysts have questioned how close the country has come to acquiring such technology, as well as the ability to guide a long-range missile.
尽管朝鲜一再威胁要对美国发动核袭击，但官员和分析人士怀疑，该国并没有真正掌握这种技术或引导远程导弹的能力。
Although Mr. Kim said that his country has the re-entry technology, it has never flight-tested a long-range missile.
虽然金正恩表示，朝鲜已经具备让飞行器顺利重返大气层的技术，但它从没进行过远程导弹飞行试验。
Fears have grown, however, that the country was mastering technologies to build such a missile. It launched a long-range rocket to put a satellite into orbit on Feb. 7. On Jan. 6, it conducted its fourth nuclear test.
不过，外界对于该国正在掌握建造此类导弹技术的担忧在增加。朝鲜在2月7日发射了一枚远程火箭，将一颗人造卫星送入轨道，还在1月6日进行了第四次核试验。
Since the sanctions resolution, North Korea has issued a series of threats and claims about its nuclear ability.
自联合国安理会达成上述制裁决议后，朝鲜就自身的核能力发出了一系列威胁和声明。
It threatened to launch “pre-emptive” nuclear strikes at the United States. It also said that it has “standardized” miniaturized nuclear warheads to be fitted on its missiles. Last Friday, the North said Mr. Kim had ordered more nuclear tests, though it did not give a time frame.
它威胁要对美国进行“先发制人”的核打击，还表示拥有适合该国导弹运载的“标准化”微型核弹头。上周五，朝鲜表示金正恩下令进行更多核试验，不过并没有给出具体的时间表。
On Sunday, a North Korean website quoted a nuclear scientist as saying that the country had a hydrogen bomb, and that if it were dropped on Manhattan, “all its residents will die instantly and the whole city will turn into piles of ashes.” The North has said a hydrogen bomb was tested on Jan. 6, though American officials dismissed that claim, given the blast’s relatively small explosive power.
周日，一家朝鲜网站援引一名核科学家的话表示，朝鲜拥有一种氢弹，如果将其发射到曼哈顿，“所有市民会立刻死亡，整座城市将变为成堆的灰烬。”朝鲜表示，该国于1月6日试爆了一枚氢弹，不过考虑到那次爆炸显示出的威力比较小，美国官方并不相信朝鲜这一说法。
It is often difficult to tell propaganda from a genuine threat in North Korean statements. The country tends to sound more bellicose and bombastic when the United States and South Korea conduct joint annual war games, as they are doing now.
外界通常很难判断，朝鲜的声明到底是一种对外宣传，还是真正的威胁。每当美国和韩国开展一年一度的联合军演时，比如现在这个时候，朝鲜往往会表现得更为好战和夸夸其谈。