SEOUL, South Korea — In a deal to defuse tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula that were rapidly escalating toward armed conflict, South Korea agreed early on Tuesday to switch off its propaganda loudspeakers on the border, while North Korea agreed to stand down from its “semi-war state,” a high level of military alert.
韩国首尔——为了缓和朝鲜半岛向武装冲突迅速升级的紧张局势，朝韩两国在周二凌晨达成协议。韩国同意停止在边境进行的对朝扩音喊话，而朝鲜同意解除意味着高级别军事警戒的“准战时状态”。
North Korea also expressed “regrets” for the maiming of two soldiers from the South in land-mine explosions, Kim Kwan-jin, the chief national security adviser to President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, said during a news conference.
韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的青瓦台国家安保室室长金宽镇(Kim Kwan-jin)在新闻发布会上称，朝鲜还对两名韩国士兵在地雷爆炸中受伤致残表示“遗憾”。
Mr. Kim also said that the two Koreas agreed to hold reunions of Koreans who became separated from relatives during the 1950-53 Korean War. Such reunions, last held in February 2014, are seen as a barometer of thawing relations.
金宽镇还宣布，两国同意举行韩朝离散家属团聚活动。在1950年到1953年的朝鲜战争期间，不少人与亲属分离。这种团聚被视为双方关系解冻的晴雨表，上一次于2014年2月举行。
“South and North Korea agreed to hold a government meeting in Seoul or Pyongyang at an early date so that they can have dialogue and negotiations on various issues to improve relations,” Mr. Kim said, reading a joint statement that the two countries signed at the border village of Panmunjom. The North Korean government also announced the agreement on Tuesday, which also included boosting exchanges between nongovernmental groups on the two countries.
“为改善韩朝关系，韩国和朝鲜将尽早在首尔或平壤举行政府间务实会谈，今后在多领域开展对话与磋商，”金宽镇在宣读两国在边境村庄板门店签署的联合声明时表示。朝鲜政府也在周二公布了该协议。文中还包括促进两国非政府团体交流的内容。
The agreement emerged from marathon talks between Mr. Kim and Vice Marshal Hwang Pyong-so, the second most powerful military officer in the North after the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un. The two sides haggled for three days at Panmunjom while the rival military forces stood ready for a possible armed clash if the talks broke down.
这项协议来自金宽镇和朝鲜次帅黄炳誓(Hwang Pyong-so)的马拉松会谈。黄炳誓是朝鲜排名第二的军事官员，权势仅次于该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)。双方在板门店争论了三天，同时两方军队为一旦谈判破裂而可能出现的武装冲突做好了准备。
North-South relations, which were already testy, deteriorated sharply after two South Korean border guards were seriously wounded on Aug. 4 by land mines that the South said were planted by the North. In retaliation, South Korea resumed blaring propaganda into the North from batteries of loudspeakers along the border, reviving a tactic it had suspended 11 years ago.
朝韩关系本来就不稳定，在两名韩国边境警卫于8月4日被地雷严重炸伤后更是迅速恶化。韩国声称，地雷是朝鲜埋下的。作为报复，韩国恢复了11年前终止的一项策略，重新开始通过边境上的一排排扩音器对朝鲜大声播放政治宣传。
The North, which had warned that it would consider use of the loudspeakers an “act of war,” said that if the South did not shut the speakers off by 5 p.m. Saturday, it would take “strong military action,” including attacking the loudspeakers. And an exchange of artillery fire on Thursday raised tensions further.
朝鲜此前一直警告会将扩音喊话当做“战争行为”，声称如果韩国不在周六下午5点前关掉扩音器，朝鲜就会采取“强力军事行动”，包括攻击扩音器。周四双方互射炮火，也进一步加剧了紧张局势。
The two sides agreed to open talks to defuse the situation a few hours before the deadline on Saturday.
在周六的最后期限到来前的几个小时，双方同意开启会谈以缓和局势。
The land-mine episode loomed large in the dispute. Ms. Park insisted on Monday that the South would not turn loudspeakers off unless the North apologized, while the North denied any responsibility.
地雷事件给这场冲突蒙上了巨大的阴影。周一，朴槿惠坚称，除非朝鲜道歉，韩国不会关掉扩音器，而朝鲜否认负有任何责任。
The inter-Korean agreement on Tuesday fell short of a “clear apology” Ms. Park had called for. She had said an apology was needed to break the “repeated cycle” of North Korea’s provocations.
周二的朝韩协议缺少朴槿惠要求的“清晰的道歉”。她一直表示，需要道歉来打破朝鲜挑衅的“重复循环”。
“North Korea has never issued an apology worthy of the name,” said Lee Sung-yoon, a professor and North Korea expert at Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, referring to deadly attacks on South Koreans in the past.
谈到朝鲜过去对韩国进行的流血攻击，塔夫斯大学弗莱彻法律与外交学院(Tufts University's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy)教授、朝鲜问题专家李成允(Lee Sung-yoon)表示，“朝鲜从未发表名副其实的道歉。”
Unless South Korea and the United States tighten sanctions and undermine Mr. Kim’s personality cult by infiltrating his isolated country with information, Mr. Lee said, they will “fall prey yet again to Pyongyang’s pattern of provocation-negotiation-concession and live with an ever-growing threat.”
李成允表示，除非韩国和美国对朝鲜实施更严厉的制裁，并通过向这个与世隔绝的国家传播信息以削弱朝鲜民众对金正恩的个人崇拜，否则它们还会被平壤的挑衅-谈判-让步模式反复折磨，要继续忍受这一不断加剧的威胁。
As the Panmunjom talks stalled, North Korea deployed more artillery pieces, submarines and other forces along the border in an apparent move to increase its leverage.
板门店谈判陷入停顿后，朝鲜在边境沿线部署了更多火炮、潜艇和其他部队，这一举动明显是为增强自己手中的筹码。
The negotiators apparently broke their impasse with a compromise in which North Korea expressed its “regrets” for the mine explosions without explicitly acknowledging responsibility for them. South Korea left open the possibility of restarting its loudspeakers if “an abnormal case occurs.”
通过一项妥协，谈判双方似乎打破了僵局，朝鲜为地雷爆炸事件表示“遗憾”，但没有明确承认对此事负责。韩国方面则表示，如果还有“非正常事件”发生，它有可能再次在边境地区打开扩音器。
In return for allowing that compromise, South Korea won a North Korean agreement to hold a new round of reunions of separated families in time for Chuseok, the annual harvest holiday, which begins on Sept. 27. The holiday is traditionally a time for family gatherings in Korea, akin to Thanksgiving in the United States.
通过接受这样的妥协，韩国赢得朝鲜同意，计划再次于中秋节举行新一轮的离散家属团聚活动。中秋节是一年一度的丰收节日，将于9月27日开始。这个节日在韩国传统中是家庭团聚的时刻，类似于美国的感恩节。
Ms. Park has repeatedly called for more reunions of relatives who lost contact during the Korean War six decades ago and have not seen one another since then.
朴槿惠曾一再呼吁两国创造更多机会，让60年前朝鲜半岛战争期间失散之后再没能见面的家属团聚。
Over the decades, the two governments have arranged a series of reunions, but the program has proceeded only fitfully, subject to the political mood on the divided peninsula. About 70,000 South Koreans, most of them 80 or older, remain on a government waiting list, hoping for a chance before they die to meet children or siblings they left in the North.
过去几十年，两国政府安排了几次团聚活动，但受分裂的朝鲜半岛政治气氛影响，这一项目断断续续。目前韩国政府统计的名单上还有大约有7万韩国人在等待团聚的机会，他们大多数是80岁以上老人，期待着在离世前能见到留在朝鲜的子女或手足。