SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea denounced the United States on Sunday for imposing new sanctions on it after a cyberattack on Sony Pictures, calling them byproducts of American “hostility” toward the North.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周日对美国实施对朝新制裁措施予以谴责，称这是美国“敌对态度”的产物。美国的新制裁是在索尼电影公司遭到黑客袭击后开始实施的。
North Korea reiterated its denial of involvement in the hacking of Sony and said that Washington’s sanctions would only strengthen its resolve to pursue its “military first” policy. That policy calls for an arms buildup, including nuclear weapons development, as a “deterrent” against Washington’s policy.
朝鲜再次否认与索尼黑客事件有关，并说华盛顿的制裁将更加坚定它奉行“先军”政策的决心。该政策要求扩大军备，包括发展核武器，作为针对华盛顿政策的“威慑”。
“The persistent and unilateral action taken by the White House to slap sanctions against the D.P.R.K. patently proves that it is still not away from inveterate repugnance and hostility toward the D.P.R.K.,” an unidentified government spokesman was quoted as saying by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. D.P.R.K. stands for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, North Korea’s official name.
“白宫针对朝鲜持续不断的、单方面的制裁行动明显证明了其对朝鲜的一贯仇恨，”朝鲜官方新闻机构朝中社援引一名未具名的政府发言人说。
The statement from the spokesman was the North’s first reaction to the new sanctions the Obama administration announced on Friday.
此人的言论是朝鲜第一次对奥巴马政府周五宣布的新制裁做出回应。
The retaliatory sanctions came days after the United States officially blamed North Korea for the hacking of Sony, which produced “The Interview,” a comedy film about a C.I.A. plot to assassinate Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader. The hacking destroyed many of the studio’s computers and leaked numerous private emails and business files.
美国的这次报复性制裁是在正式指责朝鲜对索尼发动黑客袭击的几天后开始的。索尼公司制作了一部喜剧片《采访》，讲的是中央情报局策划刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩。黑客破坏了索尼公司的多台电脑，还泄露了众多私人邮件和商业文件。
North Korea called the film an “act of war,” but it has repeatedly denied involvement in the hacking. In its statement on Sunday, North Korea noted that many cybersecurity experts had expressed skepticism about Washington’s evidence that the country was responsible for the cyberattack.
朝鲜称拍这部影片是“战争行为”，但反复否认与黑客行动有关。在周日的声明中，朝鲜说多位网络安全专家质疑了华盛顿关于朝鲜是幕后主使的证据。
Dismissing such doubts, Washington on Friday announced sanctions against 10 North Korean government officials and three organizations, including the North’s main intelligence agency, which American officials said was the source of “many of North Korea’s major cyberoperations.”
华盛顿无视这些质疑，于周五宣布了针对10名朝鲜政府官员和三个机构的制裁措施。被制裁机构包括朝鲜的情报组织。美国官员说“朝鲜许多重大网络行动”都来自该国情报组织。