SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Wednesday warned against the release of a Hollywood comedy about a plot to assassinate its leader, Kim Jong-un, calling the movie an “act of war.”
韩国首尔——朝鲜在周三发出警告，称好莱坞上映有关刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的喜剧电影属于“战争行为”。
“If the United States administration tacitly approves or supports the release of this film, we will take a decisive and merciless countermeasure,” a spokesman for its Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement carried by the state-run Korean Central News Agency.
朝鲜外务省(Ministry of Foreign Affairs)的一名发言人通过官方新闻机构朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)发表声明称，“如果美国政府默认或支持电影上映，我们将采取果断而无情的对策。”
The spokesman did not elaborate on what North Korea’s retaliation might be. But he accused Washington of “provocative insanity” in mobilizing a “gangster filmmaker” to defile the country’s supreme leader, and reported “a gust of hatred and rage” among its citizens and soldiers.
该发言人没有详细说明朝鲜可能实施哪些报复行为。但他指责华盛顿“挑衅性的愚蠢行为”，动员“黑帮电影制作人”玷污朝鲜最高领袖，并称此举在朝鲜民众及士兵中引发了“仇恨和愤怒”。
In “The Interview,” a Columbia Pictures movie scheduled to be released in October, James Franco plays a talk-show host and Seth Rogen his producer. The two pals head out to North Korea for the assignment of a lifetime: an exclusive interview with Kim Jong-un, who in real life is the young dictator of a country that often threatens to fire nuclear missiles at Washington and its “pimp” President Obama.
哥伦比亚电影公司(Columbia Pictures)这部名为《采访》(The Interview)的电影将于10月上映，詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)扮演一名谈话节目主持人，赛斯·罗根(Seth Rogen)扮演他的制作人。两人前往朝鲜完成令人终生难忘的任务：对金正恩进行专访。在现实生活中，金正恩是一名年轻的独裁统治者，他领导的国家经常发布威胁，称要向华盛顿及其“皮条客”奥巴马发射核导弹。
According to the plotline, the Central Intelligence Agency then drafts them to kill Mr. Kim.
随着电影的情节展开，美国中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)随后征召他们去刺杀金正恩。
In the film’s trailer, a C.I.A. analyst briefs the duo on North Korea and Mr. Kim: “You are entering into the most dangerous country on Earth. Kim Jong-un’s people believe anything he tells them, including that he can speak to dolphins or he doesn’t urinate or defecate.”
在电影的预告片中，一名CIA分析师简要介绍了朝鲜和金正恩：“你们将进入地球上最危险的国家。金正恩的人民相信他所说的一切，包括他能与海豚对话，或者他不用小便或排便。”
In real life, the totalitarian regime does try to ensure that Mr. Kim — like his father and his grandfather, who ruled before him — is revered as a godlike figure among his impoverished people.
在实际生活中，这个极权政权确实在设法确保金正恩像之前的统治者——他的父亲及祖父一样，被穷困的民众尊为神一般的人物。
The government lashes out at any hint of criticism or ridicule from the outside, reserving its harshest language for those who belittle Mr. Kim. With no independent press of its own, North Korea often claims that foreign news media and human rights activists who criticize Pyongyang do so at the behest of their governments. It regularly warns that it will bomb Seoul, the South Korean capital, including newspaper offices and television stations there, unless they stop publishing articles mocking its leadership.
外界对朝鲜的任何指责或嘲讽都会遭到朝鲜政府的强烈抨击，他们把最尖刻的言辞留给了那些贬低金正恩的批评者。朝鲜没有独立的新闻机构，它常常宣称，指责朝鲜政府的外国新闻媒体和人权活动人士是受政府之命这么做的。朝鲜经常警告称，他们会轰炸韩国首都首尔，包括那里的报社和电视台，除非后者停止刊登嘲讽朝鲜领导层的文章。
The Hollywood comedy has flown directly into that personality cult.
好莱坞的这部喜剧是直奔这种个人崇拜而去的。
It “is the most blatant act of terrorism and an act of war that we will never tolerate,” the North Korean statement said on Wednesday.
朝鲜在周三的声明里称，此举“是最为露骨的恐怖行径和战争行为，绝对不可容忍。”
As if the producers of the film had anticipated such a reaction, their publicity poster shows North Korean tanks and missiles with a sign that says: “War will begin!”
该片的制片人似乎已预见会出现这样的反应，他们的宣传海报显示了朝鲜的坦克和导弹，上面写着： “战争即将打响！”
The poster also says in Korean: “Don’t believe these ignorant Yankees!”
海报还用韩语写道：“不要相信这些无知的美国佬！”
Kim Jong-il, Mr. Kim’s father, was said to have been a great fan and collector of Hollywood movies, especially the James Bond series. The elder Kim, whose love of films once led his spy agents to kidnap a South Korean movie director and his actress wife and bring them to Pyongyang, used films as a tool of propaganda.
据说金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)是狂热的好莱坞电影迷和收藏者，尤为喜好詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)系列电影。金正日把电影当成一种宣传工具，他对电影的喜好曾经促使其手下的特工把一名韩国电影导演和身为演员的妻子绑架到了平壤。
He even wrote a book called “On the Art of Cinema.”
他甚至写过一本名为《论电影艺术》(On the Art of Cinema)的书。
There are signs that Mr. Kim inherited his father’s taste for Hollywood movies. In 2012, North Korean state television showed him giving the thumbs-up to a girl band singing the theme song from “Rocky” during a concert that also featured Mickey Mouse.
有迹象表明，金正恩继承了其父对好莱坞电影的审美品味。2012年，朝鲜官方电视台播放了他在一次音乐会上，对演唱《洛奇》(Rocky)主题曲的女子乐队竖起了大拇指的画面，米老鼠也参加了这场音乐会的演出。
In recent years, however, North Korea and its leaders have increasingly been the butt of jokes in American pop culture. Mr. Kim’s father was parodied in “Team America,” a hit comedy made by the creators of “South Park.” A 2002 James Bond movie, “Die Another Day,” also cast North Korea as a country of villains.
不过，朝鲜及其领导人近年日渐成为美国流行文化取笑的对象。由《南方公园》(South Park)的创作者制作的卖座喜剧《美国战队》(Team America)滑稽地模仿了金正恩的父亲。2002年的詹姆斯·邦德系列电影《择日而亡》(Die Another Day)也把朝鲜刻画成了一个恶棍国家。