SEOUL, South Korea — Naval vessels from North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire on Thursday, raising tensions along a disputed maritime boundary. Neither hit the other.
韩国首尔——周四，朝鲜和韩国的海军舰艇相互开炮，使两国在一条争议海疆沿线的紧张局势进一步升级。双方都没有击中对方。
According to a South Korean Defense Ministry official, a North Korean patrol boat fired first, shooting two rounds that fell about 500 feet from a South Korean Navy ship. The South Korean ship responded with several rounds of its own, the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity under the ministry’s rules.
一名韩国国防部官员表示，首先开火的是一艘朝鲜巡逻艇，该艇发射的两枚炮弹落在了距一艘韩国海军军舰约500英尺（约合152米）的地方。随后，该韩国军舰也发射了几枚炮弹以示回应。依照韩国国防部的规定，这名官员要求匿名。
The firing took place across the Northern Limit Line, which South Korea says is its maritime boundary in waters west of the Korean Peninsula. North Korea does not recognize the line, and says the correct boundary is farther south. There have been several naval skirmishes over the boundary in recent years.
开火的地方位于“北方界线”(Northern Limit Line)两侧，韩国称这是它在朝鲜半岛以西水域的海上边界。朝鲜并不认同这条边界，并表示正确的边界应该还要往南。近年来，双方海军已因这条边界多次发生冲突。
The shells fired by both sides fell harmlessly into the sea, and no damage or casualties were reported. As a precaution, hundreds of residents of Yeonpyeong, a nearby South Korean island, took refuge in a bomb shelter.
双方发射的炮弹最后都落入水中，没有造成任何损伤；没有报道称炮弹造成了损害或伤亡。为防万一，邻近韩国岛屿延坪岛上的数百名居民还是躲进了防空洞。
The firing on Thursday came two days after South Korean naval vessels fired warning shots at three North Korean patrol boats that crossed the Northern Limit Line. The North responded in anger, saying that it would fire on the South’s vessels in the disputed waters. The North said that its boats were chasing away Chinese fishing boats poaching in the waters on Tuesday when the South opened fire.
周四交火的两天之前，韩国海军舰艇曾鸣枪警告三艘越过北方界线的朝鲜巡逻艇。朝鲜方面做出了愤怒的回应，称朝鲜会向争议海域的韩国舰艇开火。朝鲜称，周二韩国方面开火时，朝鲜舰艇正在驱逐在该海域擅自捕鱼的中国渔船。
The disputed western waters are the most volatile section of the inter-Korean border. North Korea conducted naval drills there on March 31, firing more than 500 rounds of artillery and rockets; more than 100 of them fell south of the Northern Limit Line. South Korean marines on an island near the line responded, firing 300 artillery shells. The North conducted another live-fire drill in the area on April 29.
西部的争议海域是朝韩边境最不稳定的区域。3月31日，朝鲜曾在该海域开展海军演习，发射了500多枚炮弹和火箭弹，其中100多枚落入了北方界线以南的海域。边界附近一座岛屿上的韩国海军陆战队做出回应，发射了300枚炮弹。4月29日，朝鲜又在该海域进行了一次实弹演习。