BEIJING — Foreigners wanting to compete in the Pyongyang marathon next month can now get ready to pack their running shoes since North Korea has reopened its borders this week after a four-month closing over Ebola fears.
北京——想参加下月平壤马拉松赛的外国人们，现在可以开始准备跑鞋了，因为朝鲜本周四重新打开国门。之前该国因担心埃博拉病毒传入，将边界封闭了四个月。
To race in the streets of the North Korean capital, runners will need to sign up through one of the package tours offered by companies based outside the country and will have to fly through China.
比赛在朝鲜首都的街道上进行，外国选手需要通过境外公司旅行团报名参赛，而且必须在中国转机。
One of those companies, Koryo Tours, a longtime British-run operator based in Beijing, sent out a marketing email on Thursday saying that “foreign amateurs” would be allowed to take part in the April 12 race and that the tour company was taking applications until March 16.
其中的一家公司高丽旅行社(Koryo Tours)总部设在北京，是英国商企，长期经营朝鲜旅游业务。本周四该公司发出营销电邮，称朝鲜允许“外国业余选手”参加4月12日的比赛，该旅游公司开始接受申请，报名截止日为3月16日。
“This has been a truly extraordinary period in the history of North Korean travel, and we’d like to genuinely thank all of our tourists for being so understanding during what must have been an extremely frustrating time for you during all the recent uncertainty,” the company said in the email.
“这是朝鲜旅游史上的一个极不平常的时期，我们衷心感谢所有游客，在近期不确定性导致的极度失望中表现得如此体谅，”该公司在电邮中说。
Last year was the first time that Pyongyang allowed amateur runners from outside the country to take part in the marathon, and only by joining specific tour groups. The Pyongyang marathon was first held in 1981, with the race open only to men until 1984.
去年是平壤首次允许国外业余选手参加该马拉松比赛。选手只能通过参加特定旅游套餐的方式参赛。平壤马拉松首次举办是1981年，1984年前只接受男性选手参赛。
Uri Tours, based in New Jersey, said on its website on Wednesday that officials had reopened the Mangyongdae Prize International Marathon to foreigners after having canceled foreign participation in February. The company said that registration for foreigners had been extended until March 20.
今年2月，朝鲜取消了外国人参加万景台国际马拉松赛(Mangyongdae Prize International Marathon)的资格。本周三，总部设在新泽西州的Uri Tours旅行社在网站上表示，朝鲜官员重新向外国人开放了参赛资格。该公司表示，外国人报名截止时间延长到了3月20日。
North Korea closed its borders in late October and imposed strict travel limits on citizens returning from abroad. Even senior officials had to undergo quarantine. There are no signs that anyone inside North Korea has contracted the Ebola virus, which resurfaced in early 2014 in West Africa.
2014年年初，埃博拉疫情在西非再度肆虐。10月下旬，朝鲜封闭了边界，对从国外回来的公民进行严格限制。即使是高级官员也必须接受检疫。但没有迹象表明，朝鲜有人染上了埃博拉病毒。
Chinese tourists regularly visit North Korea, and China is also the most common transit point for non-Chinese aiming to travel to the country. But tourism is still a nascent industry in North Korea.
中国游客经常访问朝鲜，对于前往朝鲜的其他外国人而言，中国也是最常用的中转站。但在朝鲜，旅游业仍是一个新生行业。
In April of last year, Kim To-jun, the head of North Korea’s General Bureau of Tourism, told a visiting senior Chinese tourism official that North Korea was eager to attract more Chinese tourists since China was its most important tourism market, according to a report on the Chinese National Tourism Administration website.
中国国家旅游局网站上的一篇文章显示，去年4月，朝鲜旅游总局局长金道俊(Kim To-jun)对一名来访的中国高级旅游官员说，朝鲜乐于吸引更多中国游客，因为中国是其最重要的旅游市场。
Mr. Kim told Kyodo News, the Japanese news agency, in an interview last September that North Korea had 100,000 tourists in 2013, the majority from China and Russia. He added that there had been growing numbers of tourists from Britain, Germany and Southeast Asian nations.
去年9月，金道俊在接受日本新闻社共同社(Kyodo News)采访时表示，朝鲜2013年接待了10万游客，大部分来自中国和俄罗斯。他说，英国、德国和东南亚国家的游客数量也在不断增长。
In 2011, a state-owned company under North Korea’s National Defense Commission tried to market a holiday cruise to foreigners, particularly Chinese travelers, but Chinese travel agency executives and foreign journalists who went on the inaugural run of the refurbished ship, the Mangyongbong, from the northern port city of Rason to Mount Kumgang in the south, complained of conditions on board. The regular cruises never took off.
2011年，朝鲜国防委员会(North Korea’s National Defense Commission)下属的一家国有公司试图向外国人宣传推广一艘假日游轮，尤其针对中国游客。中国旅行社高管和外国记者去参加了这艘翻新船只“万景峰号”(Mangyongbong)的开业首航，从北部港口城市罗先航至南部的金刚山，结果他们抱怨船上条件太差。定期航班也就一直没有运行起来。
In April, Jeffrey E. Fowle, an Ohio municipal worker on a group tour, was detained by North Korean security officials and held for nearly six months after officers discovered he had left a Bible under a bin in a toilet stall at a club for foreign sailors.
今年4月，跟团到朝鲜旅游的俄亥俄州市政工作者杰弗里·E·福尔(Jeffrey E. Fowle)被该国安全官员拘留，并羁押了将近半年，因为他被发现在外国水手俱乐部厕位的垃圾桶下留了一本《圣经》。
The announcements about the reopening of the border were made by Koryo Tours, Uri and other foreign-based tour companies this week. They said the North Korean government had made its decision on Monday.
高丽旅游、Uri Tours等外国旅游公司本周宣布朝鲜重新开放了边界。他们说，朝鲜政府于本周一做出了这个决定。
Uri Tours said on its website that it would run its first tour of the year, a standard five-day package, in late March.
Uri Tours在其网站上表示，它将推出今年的首个朝鲜游项目，时间定于3月下旬，是标准的5日游套餐。