SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea fired a missile on Sunday, a week after its successful test of a new intermediate-range ballistic missile, South Korean officials said.
韩国首尔——韩国官员表示，朝鲜在成功测试一种新的中程弹道一周之后，周日又发射了一枚导弹。
The missile took off from a location near Pukchang, northeast of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew 310 miles before falling in waters off the country’s east coast, the South Korean military said in a statement.
韩国军方在一份声明中说，导弹是从朝鲜首都平壤东北部北仓附近的一处地方发射的，飞行了310英里（约合500公里）之后，坠入该国东海岸水域。
The United States Pacific Command said it had “detected and tracked” a medium-range ballistic missile that was launched by the North around 9:59 a.m. Hawaii time and landed in the Sea of Japan. It said that “the missile launch from North Korea did not pose a threat to North America.”
美国太平洋司令部表示，它“侦测并跟踪”了一枚中程弹道导弹，在夏威夷时间早9:59左右从朝鲜发射，落入日本海。它表示，“朝鲜发射的这枚导弹并没有对北美构成威胁。”
The launch was made while President Trump, who has pressed China to rein in the nuclear ambitions of the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, was on a nine-day trip to the Middle East and Europe.
这枚导弹发射的时候，特朗普正在进行为期九天的中东和欧洲之行，之前他已给中国施压，要求其遏制朝鲜领导人金正恩的核野心。
In a statement, the White House said: “We are aware that North Korea launched an MRBM. This system, last tested in February, has a shorter range than the missiles launched in North Korea’s three most recent tests.”
白宫在一份声明中说：“我们知道朝鲜发射了一枚中程弹道导弹。它上次测试这种系统是在2月份，其射程比在朝鲜最近三个月中发射的其他导弹的射程都短。”
The Japanese military said it was analyzing the height and trajectory of the missile. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said that by conducting a second test just a week after the last one, the North was “trampling on the international community’s efforts aimed at a peaceful settlement.”
日本军方表示正在分析导弹的高度和轨迹。首相安倍晋三说，朝鲜上次测试导弹一周之后就进行了这次测试，是“对国际社会希望和平解决此事的践踏”。
Last Sunday, North Korea successfully launched what it called a new ballistic missile that can carry a large, heavy nuclear warhead. The ground-to-ground missile, known as Hwasong-12, landed in the sea between the North and Japan, prompting angry comments from Mr. Trump, as well as from the newly elected president of South Korea, Moon Jae-in, and Mr. Abe.
上周日，朝鲜成功试射了所谓可以携带一枚重型核弹头的新型弹道导弹。这种地对地导弹被称为“火星-12型”(Hwasong-12)，它坠落在朝鲜和日本之间的海域，引发了特朗普、安倍晋三以及新当选的韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)的愤怒批评。
The missile soared to an altitude of 1,312 miles before falling in open water about 480 miles from the launching site. It was believed to have a longer range than any North Korean missile tested before.
那枚导弹升至1312英里（约合2110公里）高度，然后坠入距离发射点之外约480英里（约合770公里）的开阔水域。据信它的射程比朝鲜以前测试过的任何导弹都长。
Analysts said it looked like an intermediate-range ballistic missile that could fly far enough to target key American military bases in the Pacific, including those in Guam.
分析人士说，它看起来像是一枚中程弹道导弹，可以飞很远，足以击中美军在太平洋上的主要基地，包括在关岛的军事基地。
The successful test drew keen attention in the region because its extended range indicated that North Korea was making progress toward building an intercontinental ballistic missile.
那次测试的成功引起了该地区的高度关注，因为其延长的射程表明朝鲜在研制洲际弹道导弹方面又有了进展。
North Korea later claimed that the launch was in part to test the “re-entry” technology, which is needed to protect a warhead from the intense heat and vibration as a long-range missile crashes through the earth’s atmosphere.
朝鲜后来声称，那次发射部分是为了测试“再入大气层”技术。远程导弹需要穿过地球大气层，必须得由这项技术来保护弹头免受高温和强烈振动影响。
After an initial analysis of the flight data from the test on Sunday, the South Korean military identified the missile as Pukguksong-2. The North last test-launched Pukguksong-2 on Feb. 12, while Mr. Trump was hosting Mr. Abe on an official visit. That missile flew 310 miles.
在对周日这枚导弹飞行数据进行初步分析后，韩国军方确定它是“北极星-2型”导弹。朝鲜上次试射“北极星-2型”是在2月12号，当时特朗普接待正式到访的安倍晋三。那枚导弹飞了310英里（约合500公里）。
North Korea has said that Pukguksong-2 could carry a nuclear payload. The missile was also fired from a mobile-launch vehicle and used a solid-fuel technology that experts say will make it easier to hide and launch it on short notice.
朝鲜说，“北极星-2型”可以携带一枚核武器。这种导弹是从一个可以移动的运载设备上发射的，而且采用了固体燃料技术，专家表示，采用这种技术的导弹更容易隐藏，而且一接到命令就可以发射。
Although North Korea has vowed to develop the ability to attack the United States with nuclear warheads and has tested missiles that can reach throughout the Korean Peninsula and its vicinity, it has never tested a long-range missile that could fly across the Pacific.
虽然朝鲜已经发誓要掌握用核弹头袭击美国的能力，并且已经测试过一些可以抵达整个朝鲜半岛及其附近区域的导弹，但还从未测试过可以飞越太平洋的远程导弹。
Missile experts say North Korea may still be years away from mastering the technologies needed to build a reliable intercontinental ballistic missile. Under a series of United Nations Security Council resolutions, the country is banned from developing or testing ballistic missiles.
导弹专家说，朝鲜可能还需要数年时间才能掌握制造可靠的洲际弹道导弹所需的技术。联合国安理会一系列决议禁止朝鲜研发或测试弹道导弹。