SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea demonstrated its ballistic missile capabilities by launching two midrange missiles on Wednesday, after the leaders of the United States, Japan and South Korea gathered in the Netherlands to discuss the North’s nuclear threats.
韩国首尔——在美国、日本和韩国领导人齐聚荷兰商讨朝鲜核威胁之后，朝鲜于周三发射了两枚中程导弹，借此展示自己的弹道导弹实力。
In North Korea’s first tests of midrange projectiles in nearly five years, two Rodong missiles blasted off from mobile launching vehicles from Sukchon, north of Pyongyang, early Wednesday and flew 403 miles before landing in the sea between North Korea and Japan, said Kim Min-seok, a spokesman of the South Korean Defense Ministry.
这是朝鲜将近五年以来首次试射中程导弹。韩国国防部(South Korean Defense Ministry)发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)称，周三凌晨，位于平壤以北肃川的移动发射车将两枚“劳动”(Rodong)导弹发射升空，导弹在飞行403英里（约合650公里）后坠入朝鲜与日本之间的海域。
“By launching them from mobile vehicles which are difficult to monitor and allow North Korea to fire missiles from anywhere it wanted, the country appeared to show off its ability to attempt a surprise attack,” Mr. Kim said. “This is a serious provocation against South Korea and the international community.”
“移动发射车很难监测，朝鲜可以用它随心所欲地从任何地方发射导弹。朝鲜此次用移动发射车发射导弹，似乎是在炫耀自己有能力发动出其不意的攻击，”金珉奭说，“这是对韩国和国际社会的严重挑衅。”
Mr. Kim would not say how it was known that mobile vehicles had been involved, but North Korea has displayed an array of mobile launching pads known as transporter erector launchers in recent military parades.
金珉奭拒绝透露韩国是如何知道朝鲜使用了移动发射车的，但在最近的几次阅兵式中，朝鲜确曾展示一系列移动发射台，即所谓的导弹运送、起竖及发射一体车。
He condemned the tests as a violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions that were adopted after the North’s nuclear and long-range rocket tests in recent years and that banned the country from developing any ballistic missile technology.
他谴责朝鲜的试射违反了联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)的决议。鉴于朝鲜近几年多次进行核试验和远程导弹试验，安理会通过了相关决议，禁止朝鲜研发任何弹道导弹技术。
Wednesday’s tests were North Korea’s first use of Rodongs since 2009. The Rodong, developed from the old Soviet-designed Scud missiles, remains among the most formidable of North Korea’s growing arsenal of ballistic weapons. It has a range of 807 miles, or enough to cover most of Japan.
周三的试射是朝鲜自2009年以来首次使用“劳动”导弹。朝鲜的弹道武器库日益扩张，但从苏联设计的旧式“飞毛腿”导弹演变而来的“劳动”导弹依然是该国最强大的武器之一。这种导弹射程为807英里，足以覆盖日本大部分地区。
The tests on Wednesday were the most serious among a series of missile and rocket tests that the North has conducted since late February. The other tests all involved short-range projectiles.
从2月末开始，朝鲜进行了一系列导弹和火箭试射，周三的试射性质最为严重。其他试射涉及的都是短程飞弹。
The Rodong tests of July 2009 were preceded by the launching of a long-range rocket and a nuclear test earlier that year. When the North launched Rodong missiles in July 2006, it also test-fired a Taepodong long-range missile, followed by its first nuclear test in October that year.
2006年7月，朝鲜在试射“劳动”导弹的同时试射了一枚“大浦洞”远程导弹，并于同年10月进行了首次核试验。2009年，朝鲜发射了一枚远程火箭，进行了一次核试验，并于同年7月试射了“劳动”导弹。
“We are monitoring the situation closely, because the Rodong tests in the past had been preceded or followed by additional provocations,” Mr. Kim said.
金珉奭说，“我们正在密切监测相关情况，因为以往‘劳动’导弹测试的之前或之后都伴有其他挑衅行为。”
A State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said Tuesday night that the missile launches were “a troubling and provocative escalation that the United States takes very seriously.”
周二夜间，美国国务院女发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)说，此次导弹试射“是一次令人担心的升级挑衅，美国对此非常关注”。
Since six-nation talks aimed at ending the North’s nuclear program collapsed in 2009, North Korea has threatened to strengthen its nuclear weapons and long-range missile development. It put a satellite into orbit in December 2012 with a rocket that Washington charged was part of an effort to build an intercontinental ballistic missile and develop an ability to use it to deliver a nuclear warhead at a target as far away as North America. North Korea conducted its third nuclear test in February 2013.
2009年，以终止朝鲜核项目为目标的六方会谈宣告失败，自那以后，朝鲜一直威胁要加强核武器和远程导弹的研发。2012年12月，朝鲜用火箭把一枚卫星送入了轨道。美国政府称，朝鲜企图研发洲际弹道导弹，以便获得用它把核弹头发射到北美地区的能力，发射卫星便是为了实现这一目标。2013年2月，朝鲜进行了第三次核试验。
Mr. Kim said officials in Seoul believed that the North Korean tests could have been timed to coincide with a meeting at The Hague on Tuesday of President Obama with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. The three leaders held closed-door discussions before Mr. Obama’s visit to both countries next month.
金珉奭说，首尔官员认为，朝鲜的核试验本有可能安排在周二，也就是奥巴马总统、韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在海牙会晤之时。这三位领导人举行了闭门讨论；奥巴马将于下个月访问韩国和日本。
The meeting took place on the sideline of a nuclear security summit meeting in The Hague, where the leaders emerged from the discussion to declare themselves united in the face of North Korea’s nuclear ambitions and other issues. That the three leaders offered positive comments was significant, given recent disputes between Japan and South Korea.
前述会晤在海牙核安全峰会的间隙举行。经过讨论，三国领导人宣布会对朝鲜的核野心和其他问题采取一致立场。鉴于日本与韩国最近存在争端，三位领导人的积极表态可谓意义重大。
The Rodong tests also took place on the fourth anniversary of the sinking of a South Korean warship, which Seoul and Washington said was a North Korean torpedo attack. North Korea denied responsibility in the sinking, which killed 46 sailors.
朝鲜此次试射“劳动”导弹之时，正值一艘韩国战舰沉没的四周年纪念日。事发当时，美韩两国政府都说战舰沉没是因为遭到了朝鲜鱼雷的攻击。共有46名船员在事故中丧生，但朝鲜否认是自己所为。
After the North’s nuclear test last year, relations between it and South Korea plunged to their lowest level in recent years, but the tensions had recently eased enough for the two Koreas to hold reunions in late February. Hundreds of elderly people separated by the Korean War were allowed to meet their long-lost relatives.
朝鲜去年进行核试验以后，朝韩关系降到了近年来的最低点。不过，紧张关系近期已经得到较大缓解，2月末的朝韩离散家属团聚活动由此得以顺利进行。通过此次活动，数百名因朝鲜战争而分隔两地的老人见到了失散已久的亲人。