HONG KONG — North Korea staged huge artillery drills on Tuesday to mark the 85th anniversary of the founding of the nation’s military, as China pressed its efforts to tamp down tensions over signs that Pyongyang was preparing for a nuclear test.
香港——为庆祝朝鲜人民军建军85周年，朝鲜周二举行了大规模实弹演习。同时，有迹象表明平壤正在准备进行核试验，中国因而加强了为自己减缓紧张局势所做的努力。
The long-range artillery drills were conducted near Wonsan, along North Korea’s east coast, according to the South Korean military. They coincided with military maneuvers by the United States and its allies as well as the arrival of the U.S.S. Michigan, a submarine armed with Tomahawk cruise missiles, in the port city of Busan in South Korea.
据韩国军方说，朝鲜的远程实弹炮火演习是在其东海岸的万山附近进行的。实弹演习与美国及其盟国的军事演习在同一时间进行，同时，搭载着战斧巡航导弹的美国密歇根号核潜艇抵达了韩国港口城市釜山。
The United States Navy described the arrival of the submarine as “routine,” but its presence reflected the heightened military readiness on both sides of the Korean Peninsula.
美国海军将潜艇的到来描述为“常规”，但潜艇的出现反映了朝鲜半岛双方都在加强军事准备。
In addition to holding joint naval exercises in the Yellow Sea, the United States and South Korea have been staging military maneuvers in Pocheon, northeast of Seoul, demonstrating some of their latest weapons. A North Korean state newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, said last week that the joint maneuvers were taking the tense situation on the peninsula to the “verge of explosion.”
除了在黄海举行联合海军演习外，美韩两国还在首尔东北部的抱川举行了军事演习，展示了一些他们的最新武器。朝鲜官方报纸《劳动新闻》上周曾说，美韩联合军演将半岛紧张局势带到了“爆炸的边缘”。
North Korea often uses important national holidays, like the anniversary on Tuesday, to display its military might. On April 15 — the 105th birthday of Kim Il-sung, the country’s founder — the North staged a large military parade, flaunting what analysts said could be new intercontinental ballistic missiles. The next morning, it launched a ballistic missile that failed after liftoff.
朝鲜经常利用重要的国家纪念日、比如周二的建军节来展示自己的军事力量。在4月15日纪念朝鲜开国领袖金日成105岁诞辰时，朝鲜举行了大型阅兵式，炫耀了被分析人士描述为可能是新的洲际弹道导弹的东西。阅兵式的第二天上午，朝鲜发射了一枚弹道导弹，但导弹在起飞后不久就失败了。
The lack of a nuclear or long-range missile test as of Tuesday afternoon led to speculation that Kim Jong-un, the leader of the country, had instead decided to celebrate the anniversary with a large demonstration of conventional weapons.
截至周二下午，朝鲜还没有进行核试验或远程导弹试验，这引起人们猜测，朝鲜领导人金正恩已决定用展示常规武器的方式来庆祝建军节。
“We are closely watching the North Korean military’s movements around Wonsan while maintaining a firm preparedness,” the South Korean military said in a statement.
韩国军方在一份声明中说：“我们正在密切注视着朝鲜军队在万山附近的活动，同时保持着稳固的备战状态。”
The South Korean news agency Yonhap, citing an unidentified government source, said the exercise involved 300 to 400 pieces of long-range artillery, of the same type deployed along the border north of Seoul. Seoul, a city of 10 million, lies in range of the North Korean artillery and could experience catastrophic damage should war break out.
韩国通讯社韩联社援引一名未披露姓名的政府方面人士的话说，有300-400门远程火炮参与了这次实弹演习，火炮类型与部署在首尔以北边境地区的那些相同。首尔是一座有1000万人口的城市，位于朝鲜火炮的射程范围之内，如果战争爆发，首尔可能会遭受灾难性的破坏。
Yonhap called the drill one of the largest live-fire exercises conducted by the North.
韩联社称这次演习是朝鲜进行的最大实弹演习之一。
South Korea said on Monday that it had developed radar that can detect incoming artillery faster and more accurately than the radar it currently uses. Col. Bae Hyun-woo, a spokesman for the Defense Acquisition Program Administration, said the technology, to be deployed by 2018, would not enable the South to intercept the rockets, but would allow the military to identify their source and strike the launchpads.
韩国周一表示，已开发出一种新雷达，它比目前使用的雷达能更快、更准确地侦测发射来的炮火。韩国国防采购项目管理局发言人裴贤佑（Bae Hyun-woo，音）说，该技术将在2018年投入使用，虽然它不能让韩国拦截火箭，而能让军方确定火箭的来源，从而打击发射台。
On Tuesday, China dispatched Wu Dawei, a longtime diplomat handling tensions on the Korean Peninsula, to Tokyo for talks with Japanese Foreign Ministry officials, in hopes of warding off military confrontation.
周二，中国派武大伟前往东京，与日本外务省官员进行会谈，希望防止军事冲突。武大伟是长期处理朝鲜半岛紧张局势的外交官。
China, an ally of North Korea that has become increasingly impatient with its behavior, has tried to play a mediating role; its president, Xi Jinping, speaking by phone with President Trump on Monday, has cautioned restraint. The question is whether Beijing has enough leverage to avert a detonation at the North’s atomic test site in Punggye-ri, where, analysts say, preparations for a blast appear to have recently resumed.
中国作为朝鲜的盟国，对朝鲜的行为已越来越不耐烦。中国一直试图在朝鲜问题上进行斡旋，国家主席习近平周一再次与特朗普总统通了电话，呼吁克制。问题是，北京是否有足够的影响力来防止朝鲜在丰溪里核试验场再次引爆装置，分析人士说，为爆炸进行的准备工作似乎已在最近恢复。
As Mr. Wu traveled to Japan, the Chinese state news media defended how Beijing had handled the latest tensions. The Global Times praised Chinese coordination with the Trump administration, but said the key to defusing the tensions was in the hands of the United States, not China.
在武大伟前往日本的同时，中国官方新闻媒体为北京处理最近紧张局势的做法作辩护。《环球时报》赞扬了中国与特朗普政府进行协调的做法，但表示，缓解紧张局势的关键在于美国而不是中国。
“China’s influence over the entire situation is very limited,” an editorial in the paper said on Tuesday. “The United States hopes that China can be like a magician managing Pyongyang’s nuclear activities, while Pyongyang hopes that Beijing will apply its pressure against the threat of war from the United States and South Korea. In the end, China can’t make either side entirely happy.”
“中国对整个局势的影响非常有限，”该报周二发表的一篇社评说。“美国希望中国像变魔术一样管住平壤的核导活动，平壤则希望北京把施压的方向对准美韩的战争威胁。到头来中国不可能做到让双方的任何一方完全满意。”
Some South Korean news outlets raised concerns Tuesday about the decision by President Trump to speak with Mr. Xi and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan on Monday but not with the acting president of South Korea, Hwang Kyo-ahn. They characterized the omission as diplomatic fallout from the impeachment and ouster of former President Park Geun-hye, which has left the country without an elected leader until voters choose a successor next month.
韩国一些新闻媒体周二表示忧虑，因为特朗普总统周一决定与习近平和日本首相安倍晋三通电话，而没有与韩国代总统黄京安通话。媒体认为，这个遗漏是前总统朴槿惠被弹劾的外交后果，她的被迫离任让韩国在下个月选举下任总统之前，没有民选的领导人。
In a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Ahn stressed that South Korea was not being left out. As acting president, he said, he had spoken with Mr. Trump on the phone three times, as well as met with Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis during their recent visits to Seoul.
黄京安在周二的内阁会议上强调，韩国并没有被排除在外。他说，他曾三次作为代总统与特朗普通电话，并与最近先后到访首尔的副总统麦克·彭斯、国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森，以及国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯会面。
On Wednesday, Mr. Tillerson and Mr. Mattis are scheduled to brief the entire United States Senate at the White House on North Korea. The briefing will also include Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, and Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary.
周三，蒂勒森和马蒂斯被安排在白宫向美国参议院全体议员介绍有关朝鲜的情况。白宫新闻秘书长肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)说，参加这次情况介绍的还有国家情报总监丹·科茨(Dan Coats)和参谋长联席会议主席小约瑟夫·F·邓福德(Joseph F. Dunford Jr.)。
While administration officials often go to the Capitol to address lawmakers, it is rare for the full Senate to be summoned to the White House.
虽然行政部门的官员经常在国会大厦向立法者发表讲话，但参议院全体议员被召到白宫的事情很罕见。