SEOUL, South Korea —The leaders of North and South Korea agreed on Friday to work to remove all nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula and, by this year, declare an official end to the Korean War that ravaged the nations from 1950 to 1953.
韩国首尔——朝鲜和韩国领导人周五同意在朝鲜半岛上移除所有的核武器，并在今年宣布正式结束朝鲜战争，这场战争曾在1950到1953年间蹂躏这两个国家。
At a historic summit meeting that marked the first time a North Korean leader had set foot in the South, the leaders vowed to negotiate a peace treaty to replace a truce that has kept an uneasy peace on the divided Korean Peninsula for more than six decades, while ridding it of nuclear weapons.
这次具有历史意义的峰会标志着朝鲜最高领导人首次踏上韩国土地，双方领导人在峰会上誓言就和平条约进行谈判，以之取代在分裂的朝鲜半岛上维持了60多年不稳定和平的停战协定，并移除半岛上的核武器。
“The South and the North confirmed their joint goal of realizing a Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons through complete denuclearization,” read a statement signed by North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and the South’s president, Moon Jae-in, following their summit at the border village of Panmunjom.
在双方在边境村板门店的峰会后，朝鲜领导人金正恩及韩国总统文在寅签署的一封声明表示，“韩朝确认通过完全弃核实现半岛无核化的共同目标。”
The meeting between Mr. Kim and Mr. Moon was marked by some surprisingly candid moments but also sweeping pledges, with Mr. Kim saying, “I came here to put an end to the history of confrontation.”
金正恩与文在寅的会晤不仅有一些令人吃惊的坦率时刻，也有全面承诺，金正恩说，“我来这里，是为了敲下对抗历史的终止符。”
The event, at the Peace House, a conference building on the South Korean side of the border village of Panmunjom, was closely watched because it could set the tone for the even more critical summit meeting between President Trumpcheck first ref and Mr. Kim, two leaders known for bold if unpredictable actions who only recently had the world fearing a nuclear war.
这次在边境村板门店韩国一侧的会议中心和平之家举行的会晤备受关注，因为它可能会给更为重要的特朗普总统与金正恩的峰会定下基调，这两位领导人都以大胆、但多少有点不可预知的行为著称，就在不久前，他们还曾让世界担心会发生核战争。
Mr. Trump and his aides are expected to seek a quick timetable for the North to eliminate its nuclear weapons. But Friday’s agreement between Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim was short on such specifics.
特朗普和他的助手们预计将寻求一个朝鲜移除其核武器的快速时间表。不过，文在寅与金正恩周五达成的一致意见缺乏此类细节。
“The South and the North agreed to work diligently to win the international community’s support and cooperation for the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” their statement said.
他们的声明说，“韩朝决定，为了赢得国际社会对半岛无核化的支持与合作积极努力。”
The tone of the session — broadcast live nationally on South Korean television — was convivial and at times jocular, with Mr. Kim showing surprising honesty about the differences in conditions between the two nations.
韩国电视台对会晤进行了全国直播，现场的调子相当欢快，有时还带点诙谐，金正恩对两国的不同状况表现出惊人的坦诚。
Yoon Young-chan, Mr. Moon’s spokesman, said Mr. Kim acknowledged the poor road conditions in his country, a startling admission for a member of his ruling family, which is considered godlike and faultless among North Koreans. Mr. Kim also revealed that the North Koreans who visited the South during the Winter Olympics in February all admired the bullet train there.
文在寅的发言人尹永灿（Yoon Young-chan，音）说，金正恩承认他的国家的道路状况不佳，这对被朝鲜人看作神圣和完美无瑕的统治家族的一员来说，是一种令人震惊的承认。金正恩还透露，在今年2月的冬季奥运会期间访问过韩国的朝鲜人都对那里的高速列车表示钦佩。
After Mr. Moon spoke of wanting to visit North Korea, Mr. Kim said, “It will be very embarrassing,” alluding to the roads in his country.
文在寅表示想访问朝鲜后，金正恩说，“这将非常令人尴尬，”暗指他的国家的道路状况。
Mr. Kim also repeated a lighthearted line he had used in his meeting with South Korean envoys in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, last month, apologizing to Mr. Moon for disturbing his sleep with missile tests and forcing him to attend meetings of his National Security Council.
金正恩还重复了他上个月在朝鲜首都平壤与韩国特使会晤时用过的一个轻松说法，金正恩为朝鲜的导弹试验打搅了文在寅的睡眠、迫使他召集国家安全委员会开会，向文在寅表示道歉。
“I heard you had your early morning sleep disturbed many times because you had to attend the N.S.C. meetings because of us,” Mr. Kim said. “Getting up early in the morning must have become a habit for you. I will make sure that your morning sleep won’t be disturbed.”
“我听说你因为我们（试射导弹）而好多次在凌晨被吵醒，不得不去参加国家安全会议，”金正恩说。“早起床肯定已经是你的习惯了。我将确保你的清晨睡眠不会再被打扰。”
Mr. Moon joked back: “Now I can sleep in peace.”
文在寅开玩笑地回答说：“现在我可以安心入睡了。”
Mr. Moon also offered some capitalistic carrots, reminding Mr. Kim that South Korea had in years past promised huge investments to help improve the North’s road and train systems. Those agreements eventually collapsed as the North persisted in developing nuclear weapons.
文在寅还拿出了一些资本主义的胡萝卜，他提醒金正恩，韩国在过去好多年里曾承诺提供巨额资金，来帮助朝鲜改善道路和铁路系统。但由于朝鲜坚持发展核武器，那些协议最终崩溃。
Mr. Moon, a progressive leader who says he likes to see South Korea “in the driver’s seat” in pushing the peace effort forward, is trying to broker a successful summit meeting between Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump, which is expected in late May or early June.
文在寅是一位进步派的领导人，他表示希望看到韩国在推动和平的努力中“占据主导地位”，他一直在试图促成金正恩与特朗普之间成功举行峰会，预计朝美峰会将在5月底或6月初举行。
Mr. Kim rattled the region last year by testing long-range missiles and trading threats of nuclear war with Mr. Trump. But then Mr. Kim shifted gears, saying that he was willing to give up his nuclear weapons for the right incentives and proposing the meeting with Mr. Trump.
去年，金正恩试射了远程导弹，还与特朗普互相以核战争作为威胁，令东亚地区不安。但随后，金正恩改变了做法，表示如果有适当的激励，他愿意放弃核武器，他还提议与特朗普会面。
Last weekend, Mr. Kim announced an end to all nuclear and long-range-missile tests, saying that his country hadmastered how to mount nuclear warheads on missiles and no longer needs to conduct tests. Mr. Kim said North Korea has adopted a “new strategic line” focusing on economic development.
上周末，金正恩宣布结束所有的核试验和远程导弹试验，他说，朝鲜已经掌握了在导弹上搭载核弹头的技术，不再需要进行试验。金正恩说，朝鲜已经采取了以经济发展为重点的“新战略路线”。
Skeptics say Mr. Kim is trying to improve ties with South Korea to steer it from the United States and escape sanctions that are increasingly hurting the North’s economy. Indeed, many conservatives in the South fear that the North’s goal remains to be accepted as a nuclear power in return for freezing its nuclear and intercontinental-ballistic-missile programs.
持怀疑态度的人说，金正恩是想改善与韩国的关系，使之远离美国，也想逃避对朝鲜经济日益不利的制裁。确实，许多韩国的保守派人士担心，朝鲜的目标仍是被接受为一个有核国家，以作为冻结其核项目和洲际弹道导弹项目的回报。
Analysts have warned that once negotiations begin with the United States, North Korea could push them into a stalemate by trying to drag Washington into nuclear arms reduction talks.
分析人士警告说，一旦开始与美国进行谈判，朝鲜可能会试图把华盛顿拖入削减核武器的对话中去，让谈判陷入僵局。
To prevent that, South Korea and the United States are trying to persuade North Korea to agree to a specific timeline for complete denuclearization: as soon as possible and no later than the end of Mr. Trump’s current term, in early 2021, according to South Korean officials and analysts.
为了防止发生这种情况，韩国和美国正试图说服朝鲜接受一个完全无核化的具体时间表：尽早、或最迟在特朗普目前任期结束前的2021年早些时候实现无核化，据韩国官员和分析人士说。
During their morning talks, Mr. Kim suggested more summit meetings with Mr. Moon, saying that he would like to visit the presidential Blue House in Seoul. He said North Korea would cooperate to make a “better world.”
在他们上午的会谈中，金正恩建议与文在寅举行更多的峰会，他说，他希望访问首尔的总统府青瓦台。他说，朝鲜会为创造一个“更美好的世界”合作。
But he also voiced caution, suggesting South Korea and the United States deserved blame for scuttling previous deals.
但他也提出了警告，暗示韩国和美国应为以前的协议受阻负责。
“As the expectations are high, so is the skepticism,” he said. “In the past, we had reached big agreements, but they were not implemented for more than 10 years. There are people who are skeptical that the results of today’s meeting will be properly implemented.”
“因为有很高的期望，所以也有很大的怀疑，”他说。“过去，我们曾经达成过一些大的协议，但十多年来一直没有实施。有些人怀疑今天会晤的结果是否会得到适当的落实。”