SEOUL, South Korea —A high-ranking North Korean diplomat who was based in Britain has defected to South Korea, one of the most prominent officials to do so in recent years, the government in Seoul said on Wednesday.
韩国首尔——韩国政府周三表示，朝鲜一名驻英国的高级外交官已叛逃到韩国，这是近年来的叛逃者中级别最高的官员之一。
The arrival of the diplomat, Thae Yong-ho, the No. 2 official in the North Korean Embassy in London, was announced by Jeong Joon-hee, a South Korean government spokesman, at a news conference in Seoul.
韩国政府发言人郑浚熙在首尔的新闻发布会上宣布了这位外交官的到来，他叫泰勇浩（Thae Yong Ho，音译），是朝鲜驻伦敦大使馆的二号官员。
Mr. Thae’s defection was hailed as a major victory for South Korea, whose relations with the North have soured in recent years over Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons program and missile tests. Mr. Thae is the most senior North Korean diplomat to flee the secretive nation since Jang Seung-gil, the ambassador to Egypt, defected to the United States in 1997.
泰勇浩的叛逃对韩国来说是一个重大胜利，由于平壤的核武器计划和导弹试验，韩国与朝鲜的关系近年来一直在恶化。自从朝鲜驻埃及大使张承吉（音）于1997年叛逃到美国以来，泰勇浩是逃离这个隐秘国家的最高级别的朝鲜外交官。
“He is one of the most senior North Korean diplomats” to have defected, Mr. Jeong said, adding that Mr. Thae’s family had come to South Korea with him.
“他是（叛逃的）最高级别的朝鲜外交官之一，”郑浚熙说，并补充说，泰勇浩的家人与他一起到达韩国。
Mr. Thae was second only to Ambassador Hyon Hak-bong at the embassy in London.
泰勇浩在驻伦敦大使馆的位置仅次于大使玄鹤奉。
Mr. Jeong said that Mr. Thae and his family had arrived in South Korea “recently.” The spokesman would not say whether the diplomat, who was being debriefed by South Korean officials, had family members left in the North or what countries, if any, he had traveled through.
郑浚熙说，泰勇浩及其家人已在“近日”到达韩国。韩国官员正在对他进行询问。发言人未透露泰勇浩是否有家人仍留在朝鲜，也未透露他在到达韩国前经过了哪些国家，如果他是经过他国来韩国的话。
The mass-circulation South Korean daily JoongAng Ilbo reported on Monday that a North Korean diplomat in London had defected, citing an anonymous source, but it did not identify the official.
发行量很大的韩国报纸《中央日报》曾在周一援引匿名消息来源的信息报道，一名驻伦敦的朝鲜外交官叛逃，但报道没有给出该官员的姓名。
There was no immediate reaction from North Korea to news of Mr. Thae’s defection. The North has typically called defectors “traitors” or has accused South Korea’s intelligence agency of kidnapping them.
朝鲜对泰勇浩叛逃的消息没有立即做出反应。朝鲜通常称叛逃者为“叛徒”，或指责韩国的情报机构绑架他们。
According to Mr. Jeong, Mr. Thae told South Korean officials that he had defected because he was disillusioned with the government of Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader. The diplomat also said that he yearned for the South’s freedom and democracy, and that he wanted to give his children a better future, Mr. Jeong told reporters.
据郑浚熙说，泰勇浩向韩国官员表示，他叛逃是因为他对朝鲜领导人金正恩的政府感到失望。这名外交官还表示，他渴望韩国的自由和民主，想让自己的孩子有一个美好的未来，郑浚熙对记者说。
“We see his defection as a sign that some of the core elite in the North are losing hope in the Kim Jong-un regime,” Mr. Jeong said, “and that the internal unity of the ruling class in the North is weakening.”
“我们把他的叛逃看作是朝鲜核心精英层中有些人正在对金正恩政权失去希望的一种迹象，”郑浚熙说，“朝鲜统治阶级的内部团结正在减弱。”
South Korean officials expressed similar views in April when 13 people working at a North Korean government run restaurant in China fled to the South. Officials said that unusual group defection reflected growing dissatisfaction in the North with Mr. Kim’s government.
今年4月，中国一家朝鲜政府经营的餐厅的13名工作人员叛逃到韩国后，韩国官员表达过类似的观点。韩国官员说，那次不同寻常的集体叛逃体现了朝鲜人民对金正恩政府日益增长的不满。
But analysts here have cautioned against drawing such conclusions. Cheong Seong-chang, a senior North Korea analyst at the Sejong Institute in Seoul, said that isolated defections like Mr. Thae’s should not be taken as an indication of instability in the North, and that there was no sign of an organized challenge to Mr. Kim’s rule.
但是，这里的分析人士对这样的结论提出警告。位于首尔的韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的朝鲜问题专家郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说，像泰勇浩这样的孤立叛逃事件不应被视为是朝鲜不稳定的标示，没有迹象表明那里有对金正恩统治的有组织的挑战。