SEOUL, South Korea —North Korea test-fired a ballistic missile, possibly from a submarine, off its eastern coast on Wednesday, demonstrating a significant improvement in its efforts to build a harder-to-detect means to strike American and allied forces, the South Korean military said.
韩国首尔——韩国军方表示，朝鲜周三在其东海岸试射了一枚有可能是潜射的弹道导弹，显示该国在建造用以打击美国及其盟友军队的难以探测的武器方面取得重大进展。
The missile, launched from near Sinpo, a submarine base, flew 310 miles toward Japan, the South Korean military said in a statement. The statement said that the test showed that North Korea was making “progress” after several failed tests of submarine-launched ballistic missiles, or SLBMs.
韩国军方发表声明表示，这枚在潜艇基地新浦附近发射的导弹，朝日本方向飞行了310英里。声明称，这项试验显示出，在几次试射潜射弹道导弹(SLBM)失败之后，朝鲜正在取得进步。
All previous such missiles North Korea had launched flew only a short distance, making those flights too brief to be called successful, according to South Korean defense officials. Missile experts have said that North Korea probably conducted some of its previous tests from a submerged barge, rather than from an actual submarine, releasing digitally altered photographs to exaggerate its missile technology for its home audience.
韩国国防官员表示，朝鲜过去发射的所有此类导弹都只飞行了很短的距离，太过短暂，因此称不上成功。导弹专家曾经表示，朝鲜之前进行的试验有些可能是从水下驳船上发射，而非从真正的潜水艇上，还提到该国发布经过数字技术修改的照片，以便向本国观众夸大其导弹技术发展的程度。
On Wednesday, South Korea did not say whether the latest North Korean SLBM test was conducted from a submarine or a barge, saying it was still analyzing the test.
韩国在周三没有明确表示朝鲜最近这次SLBM试射是从潜水艇还是驳船上发射的，称还在对这次试验进行分析。
The latest missile test came two days after the United States and South Korea kicked off one of their annual joint military exercises. North Korea condemns all such drills as a rehearsal for an invasion and has often responded with warlike words, or missile tests.
就在最近这次导弹试验进行两天前，美国和韩国开启了两国一年一度的联合军事演习。朝鲜谴责所有此类演习，称之为入侵前的演练，谴责之声往往带有战争威胁意味的字眼，或以进行导弹试验的方式做出回应。
The test also came hours before the foreign ministers of South Korea, Japan and China were to continue talks in Tokyo to discuss the North’s growing missile and nuclear threats, as well as territorial and other disputes in the region.
而就在试验进行前数小时，韩国、日本和中国的外交部长正在东京，准备继续就日益加剧的朝鲜导弹与核威胁进行磋商，同时就该地区的领土和其他争端进行会谈。
“We see this SLBM test as an attempt by the North to use the South Korean-United States military exercise as a pretext to raise tensions,” the South Korean military said. It also said the test posed a serious threat to the South’s security and marked a grave violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions that bar the North from developing ballistic missile technology.
“在我们看来，朝鲜举行这次SLBM试验，是试图拿韩美军事演习当借口，制造紧张气氛，”韩国军方称。它还表示，这次试验对韩国的安全构成重大威胁，也严重违反了联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)禁止朝鲜发展弹道导弹技术的的决议。
North Korea’s growing missile threats have been unsettling enough for the United States and South Korea to decide to deploy the American-built Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, battery in the South by the end of next year despite a vehement protest from China.
朝鲜日益增长的导弹威胁一直让美国和韩国感到不安，乃至令两国决定，于明年年底之前在韩国部署由美国打造的末段高空区域防御系统（Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”），尽管这一决定遭到了中国的强烈抗议。