SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea had deployed twice as many artillery pieces as usual along the border with South Korea on Sunday, and most of its submarines had departed from their bases, as the two Koreas held a second day of talks to try to break a tense military standoff, officials said.
韩国首尔——周日，韩朝两国为打破紧张的军事对峙而举行的谈判进入第二天。官员透露，朝鲜在与韩国的分界线上部署了相当于平时两倍的火炮，且该国的大部分潜艇都已离开了各自所在的基地。
Negotiators from both sides resumed talks in the border village of Panmunjom on Sunday afternoon after a marathon overnight meeting failed to reach a compromise over the terms under which South Korea would withdraw 11 batteries of propaganda loudspeakers from the border. The North calls the broadcasts by the speakers, which include criticism of its political system and its leader, Kim Jong-un, an “act of war.”
周日下午，双方的谈判代表在分界线上的板门店村继续进行谈判。此前，双方连夜举行了一场马拉松式的会谈，但未能就韩国从边境上拆下11排宣传喇叭的条款达成妥协。那些喇叭广播的内容包括对朝鲜的政治制度及其领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的批评。朝鲜称那是“战争行为”。
As the negotiators haggled, the North raised the stakes by moving more artillery forces to the front line, a South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman said, speaking on the customary condition of anonymity.
韩国国防部发言人称，在谈判代表争论不休之际，朝鲜向前线派遣了更多炮兵部队，加剧了局面的紧张。这名发言人按照惯例要求匿名。
“We have also detected 70 percent of the North Korean submarines missing from their bases, and we are looking for their whereabouts,” he said. “This is a typical North Korean tactic of talking on one hand and brandishing military power on the other to try to force their way.”
“我们还发现，70%的朝鲜潜艇从各自所在的基地消失了，我们正在寻找它们的踪迹，”他说。“这是朝鲜典型的一手谈判，一手炫耀武力，试图以强力得逞的策略。”
It is highly unusual for so many of the North’s 70 known submarines to be away from their bases at once, officials here said. South Korea has been particularly sensitive about North Korean submarines after 46 sailors were killed in 2010 in the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship, which the South attributed to a torpedo fired by a North Korean submarine.
这里的官员称，在朝鲜已知的70艘潜艇中，这么多潜艇同时离开基地的情况极不寻常。2010年，韩国海军的一艘船只沉没，导致46名船员死亡。韩国将其归咎于朝鲜潜艇发射的鱼雷。那个事件之后，韩国对朝鲜的潜艇特别敏感。
The militaries of both Koreas have been on heightened alert since they exchanged artillery fire on Thursday in a dispute over the loudspeakers. Although no casualties were reported, the clash was the most serious in five years.
周四，在围绕喇叭产生的争端中，双方发生交火。之后，双方军队一直高度戒备。尽管并无造成伤亡的报告，但这次冲突是五年来最严重的一次。
Since taking office in 2011, Mr. Kim has striven to prove himself a worthy “military first” successor of his father and grandfather, both of whom ruled North Korea before him, by conducting nuclear and long-range missile tests. But his inexperience in managing crises has added to worries about the current standoff. Some analysts fear that his frequent executions of top officials might make top generals more prone to attempt armed provocations to prove their loyalty and to survive his reign.
自2011年上台后，金正恩努力通过进行核试验和远程导弹试射，来证明自己推崇“先军”思想，是祖父和父亲当之无愧的接班人。在金正恩之前，他的父亲和祖父均担任过朝鲜的领导人。但他在危机管理方缺乏经验，这一点加剧了外界对当前对峙的担忧。一些分析人士担心，金正恩频繁处决高官的做法，可能会让高级将领更倾向于尝试武装挑衅，以证明自己的忠诚，并在金正恩的统治下活命。
“Both sides had comprehensive discussions on how to resolve the current situation and how to improve South-North relations in general,” Min Kyung-wook, a spokesman for President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, said on Sunday about the border talks that began on Saturday.
“双方就如何化解当前的局面，以及如何从整体上改善两国关系，进行了全面的探讨，”韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的发言人闵庚旭(Min Kyung-wook)周日在评价周六开始的边境会谈时说。
Before the talks began, the two sides had sounded as if they were about to clash militarily. The North put its front-line units on a “semi-war” footing, ordering them to be ready to launch “strong military action,” including attacks on the loudspeakers, unless South Korea removed the speakers by 5 p.m. on Saturday. The speakers, a Cold War-era tool of psychological warfare that had been retired for 11 years, were returned to the front line on Aug. 10 after two South Korean border guards were maimed six days earlier by land mines that the South said were planted by the North.
谈判开始前，双方听上去似乎就要动武了。朝鲜让前线部队进入“半战争”状态，命令他们准备好，如果韩国方面不能在周六下午5点之前拆下喇叭，便发起“强有力的军事行动”，包括攻击喇叭。那些喇叭是冷战时期的心理战工具，此前已退役11年了。8月10日，喇叭重新投入使用，因为六天前两名韩国边防士兵因地雷致残，且韩国称地雷是朝鲜埋设的。
The South demanded that the North first apologize for the planting of the mines, which the North denies. While the talks were underway, the loudspeakers continued blaring propaganda.
韩国要求朝鲜首先就埋放地雷一事道歉，但朝鲜否认地雷是自己埋的。在会谈举行期间，喇叭仍在播放宣传内容。
“What we see is the two Koreas challenging each other’s nerve, going soft and tough at the same time,” said Lee Byong-chul, a senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, the South Korean capital.
“我们看到的是两国在相互挑战对方的神经，双方同时采取怀柔或强硬姿态，”韩国首尔的和平与合作研究所(Institute for Peace and Cooperation)高级研究员李炳哲(Lee Byong-chul)说。
The two Koreas agreed to talk on Saturday hours before the 5 p.m. deadline for removal of the speakers passed. The sides have often escalated tensions, matching threats of war with tough talk of retaliation before making a face-saving retreat into dialogue and short-lived agreements on improving ties.
周六当天，在距离下午5点拆除喇叭的最后期限仅剩几小时的时候，两国同意举行谈判。双方经常升级紧张局势，先是一方发出战争威胁，另一方言辞强硬地表示要进行报复，然后再为了挽回颜面退而进行对话，并就改善关系达成效力短暂的协议。