Washington —AS someone who has spent most of the past 25 years of his professional life in the United States government, think tanks and academia trying to stop the North Korean nuclear weapons program, I found last week’s nuclear test and the events that followed depressingly familiar. They reminded me of Captain Renault’s famous line from “Casablanca” just before he shuts down Rick’s Café: “I’m shocked, shocked to find that gambling is going on in here!” The reactions to North Korea’s 2006, 2009 and 2013 nuclear tests were the same — shock. Yet a decade has gone by and the North Korean nuclear threat has only grown.
华盛顿——作为一个过去25年的大部分时间中在美国政府、智库及学术机构里试图阻止朝鲜核项目的人，我发现该国上周进行的核试验及之后发生的事情都还是那令人沮丧的老一套。它让我想起了《卡萨布兰卡》(Casablanca)中雷诺上尉(Captain Renault)在查封里克(Rick)的咖啡馆前说的一句台词：“我非常震惊，这里居然有人在赌博！”人们对朝鲜2006年、2009年及2013年开展的核试验的反应都是一样的——震惊。但10年过去了，朝鲜的核威胁不断增加。
I probably shouldn’t say this, but I take my hat off to the North Koreans. They have played their cards extremely well. Despite this episodic outrage, they have managed to become a full-fledged small nuclear power with a growing and increasingly sophisticated arsenal. Moreover, even as they have moved down the nuclear path, they have maintained fairly normal political, economic and other relations with many countries from China to Ethiopia. In effect, a large number of countries have tacitly accepted North Korea as a nuclear weapons state.
我可能不该这么说，但我真的很佩服这些朝鲜人。他们非常好地打出了自己手里的牌。尽管不定期地引发愤怒，他们还是设法成为了一个小型的成熟核武国家，拥有越来越多愈发尖端的武器。除此之外，即便他们已经走上有核道路，他们依然与中国、埃塞俄比亚等很多国家保持着相当正常的政治、经济及其他关系。实际上，很多国家默默接受了朝鲜作为有核国家的地位。
How has the North been able to do this? There are, of course, wonky answers: Unilateral and multilateral sanctions haven’t been forceful enough, negotiators haven’t been tough enough. But a big reason you will not often hear is that Americans and the international community have a comic book image of North Korea. We simply don’t take them seriously.
朝鲜是怎么做到的呢？当然有些站不住脚的答案：单边及多边制裁力度不够，谈判代表不够强硬。但有一个大家不会经常听到的重要原因，那就是在美国人和国际社会看来，朝鲜就像漫画书一样。我们没有把他们当回事儿。
Their people are robots, sporting lapel-pin pictures of their Dear Leader and regularly attending mass rallies where thousands move in unison like the Radio City Rockettes. Their official media — hyperbolic pronouncements, constant threats and worshipful praise of the leader — magnifies a cultlike image. And most of all, their leaders look strange to us — for example, Kim Jong-il with his funny hairdo and dark glasses. Senator Ted Cruz typified this perception of the North recently, labeling the current leader, Kim Jong-un, as a “crazy nutcase” with a nuclear bomb.
朝鲜人民就像是机器人，佩戴着印有敬爱领袖肖像的徽章，他们经常参加大规模集会，数千人就像无线电城音乐厅火箭女郎舞蹈团一样，动作一致。他们的官方媒体——夸张地宣布公告，不断进行威胁，虔诚地赞美领袖——强化了这种类似邪教的形象。最重要的是，他们的领导人在我们看来很奇怪——比如，留着滑稽发型、戴着墨镜的金正日(Kim Jong-il)。参议员泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)最近体现了对朝鲜的这种看法，称朝鲜现任领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)是一个拥有核弹的“发狂的疯子”。
I have been meeting with North Korean government officials for more than two decades in their country, Europe and Asia, and I can tell you that they are neither nutcases nor comic book characters. They are a diverse group, from hidebound apparatchiks to bureaucrats who teach themselves English by listening to foreign radio broadcasts. Some of them, military men especially, are hard-line, patriotic and, above all, anti-American.
20多年来，我曾在朝鲜、欧洲及亚洲与朝鲜政府官员会面，我可以告诉你，他们既不是疯子，也不是漫画书中的人物。他们是一个多元化的群体，既有保守的官员，也有通过听外国电台广播自学英语的官员。其中一些人非常强硬、爱国，最重要的是反美，特别是军人。
I found that out firsthand in the 1990s, while leading a team on an inspection of a military-run underground facility that we thought might violate the 1994 United States-North Korea denuclearization agreement. My team was locked in a room surrounded by soldiers with bayonets drawn after one member of our team violated the inspection procedures. Many of us thought we were going to be killed. Eventually, we managed to extricate ourselves, but as we left the base in an old school bus, the military men followed us in a truck with a loudspeaker blaring anti-American slogans. I asked our North Korean civilian escort if they were going to follow us for the whole ride back to our hotel — two hours over bumpy roads. He responded with a smile: “Do you want them to?”
我在20世纪90年代切身体会到这一点，当时我带领检查小组视察一个军队管理的地下设施，我们认为该设施可能违背了美国和朝鲜在1994年签订的去核化协议。在一名小组成员违反了检查程序后，我们小组被关到一个由亮出刺刀的士兵包围的房间。小组中很多人当时都以为，我们会被杀害。最终，我们得以离开那里，但当我乘坐老旧的校车离开基地时，军人们开着卡车跟在我们身后，车上的扬声器高声播放反美口号。我问那名护送我们的朝鲜非军方人员，他们是否会在两个小时的颠簸路程里一路跟着我们回到宾馆。他微笑着回答道：“你想让他们跟着吗？”
Americans might find it surprising that many North Korean officials take a nonideological view of foreign affairs. Indeed, we would call them realists. They are well aware of their national interests and are dedicated to safeguarding them, a dedication that is based on a keen understanding of the outside world. A case in point: At one meeting, I was sitting next to a well-connected North Korean official who wanted to talk about Hillary Clinton’s book “It Takes a Village.” (I was embarrassed to say I had not read it.) The North Koreans have demonstrated to me during many meetings that they are well versed in the particulars of political, economic and other developments in China, South Korea and Japan.
很多朝鲜官员对外国事务的看法不涉及意识形态，美国人可能对此感到震惊。实际上，我们可以称他们是现实主义者。他们非常清楚他们的国家利益，并致力于维护这些利益，这种努力是基于对外部世界的深刻认识。举一个恰当的例子：有一次开会，我坐在一名人脉关系良好的朝鲜官员身旁，他想讨论希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的书籍《举全村之力》(It Takes a Village)。（我尴尬地告诉他，我没读过这本书。）朝鲜人曾在很多次会面中向我展示，他们很了解中国、韩国及日本的政治、经济及其他领域的发展详情。
It shouldn’t be surprising that North Koreans are realists. In fact, I have been present several times when North Korean officials have met privately with Mr. Kissinger. They seemed to view those sessions as unprecedented opportunities to learn at the feet of an American statesman whom they deeply respect and admire.
朝鲜人是现实主义者，这不应该令人感到惊讶。实际上，朝鲜官员与基辛格私下会见时，我有几次都在场。他们似乎将这些会议视作前所未有的机会，可以向他们非常尊重和欣赏的这位美国政治家致敬、学习。
Don’t get me wrong. The North Koreans may know a lot about the outside world, but they don’t know everything, even about the United States, their main adversary. In one meeting, an official asked, “Why do the president and secretary of state keep saying that the United States will not allow North Korea to have nuclear weapons when in fact you are not doing much to stop us?” He deduced that there must be a hidden agenda. “It’s because you want us to have nuclear weapons as an excuse to tighten your grip on South Korea and Japan, your two allies.” We responded that there was no hidden agenda and that the United States really did not want the North to have those weapons. I’m not sure we convinced him.
不要误解。朝鲜可能对外面的世界有很多了解，但他们并非什么都知道，即使是和他们的主要敌手美国有关。在一次会议上，一名朝鲜官员曾经问，“为什么美国总统和国务卿一直说美国不允许朝鲜拥有核武器，但实际上你们又没有做多大努力来阻止我们？”他推测这背后有不可告人的目的。“是因为你们想让我们拥有核武器，以此作为借口来加强对韩国和日本这两个盟友的控制。”我们回应，这背后没什么秘密目的，美国的确不希望朝鲜拥有核武器。我不确定自己是否真的说服了他。
What does all of this mean for America’s future policy toward North Korea? Immediate, strong responses to provocations are fine. So are public statements of indignation; bigger and better sanctions; more pressure on the North’s Chinese allies to support these measures; military steps to show the North Koreans and our allies that we are resolute. These are all warranted. But the North Koreans are in this for the long haul. They feel that their country and its government’s survival is at stake. Unless Americans take them seriously and formulate a long-term strategy for stopping this threat, rather than adopting ad hoc tactical responses, when North Korea conducts its fifth nuclear test a few years from now, the United States will find itself, like Captain Renault in “Casablanca,” rounding up the usual suspects.
鉴于上述所有这些，美国应该如何制定未来的对朝政策呢？能对朝鲜的挑衅行为马上进行有力的回应，当然很好。同样不错的，还包括发出表达愤慨的公开声明；实施规模更大、更有效的制裁；给朝鲜的盟友中国施加更大压力，迫其支持这些措施；采取军事行动，向朝鲜和我们的盟友展示美国坚定的决心。这些都有理有据。只不过，在核计划方面，朝鲜是打算打持久战的。他们觉得这对自己的国家和政府是生死攸关的大事。除非美国严肃对待他们，制定遏制这一威胁的长期战略，而非采取临时的应对措施，否则几年后朝鲜进行第五次核试验时，美国会发现自己就像《卡萨布兰卡》中的雷诺上尉一样，还在重复司空见惯的那一套。