SEOUL, South Korea — Six South Koreans repatriated from North Korea over the weekend said that they had fled to the North through China in recent years to escape bankruptcies and family troubles in the South and in search of a better life in the North, the South Korean news media and government officials said on Monday.
韩国首尔——韩国新闻媒体和政府官员周一表示，朝鲜于上周末遣返了六名韩国人，这些人说，他们是在近些年通过中国逃往朝鲜的，目的是躲避在韩国的破产状况和家庭纠纷，到朝鲜寻求更好的生活。
North Korea handed over the six men, ages 27 to 67, at the border on Friday. It was an unusual gesture from the North, which had in the past welcomed defectors from the South and used them for propaganda. Some analysts saw the repatriations as a North Korean overture to ease tensions with the South.
上周五，朝鲜在朝韩边境移交了前述六名男子，他们的年龄在27岁到67岁之间。这是朝鲜作出的一个非比寻常的姿态，在过去，朝鲜一直欢迎来自韩国的叛逃者，利用他们做宣传。一些分析人士把此次遣返视为朝鲜缓和与韩国紧张关系的前奏。
After returning home, all six men told investigators that they had entered the North through its border with China between 2009 and 2012, said a South Korean government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity until the investigation was over. He also said that the remains of a woman returned on Friday from the North were of the wife of one of the men.
一名韩国政府官员说，回家之后，六名男子都对调查人员表示，他们是在2009年到2012年间通过中朝边境进入朝鲜的。这名官员要求匿名发言，在调查结束之前不披露他的名字。他还说，朝鲜上周五还移交了一具女性遗体，死者是其中一人的妻子。
The South Korean news media quoted anonymous government sources as saying that one of the six had posted pro-North messages on the Internet while in the South. When North Korea’s main party paper, Rodong Sinmun, quoted one of his online postings, he reportedly decided to defect to the North, hoping that he would be treated well there.
韩国新闻媒体引用政府匿名消息源的话说，在韩国时，六人中的一人曾在网上发布亲朝信息。朝鲜的主要党报《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)援引了他在网上贴出的一条信息，此后他决定叛逃朝鲜，原因据说是认为自己能得到朝鲜的礼遇。
Another man hoped for treatment for kidney stones in the North, the Yonhap news agency and other South Korean news media said. But all six ended up going through between 14 and 45 months of interrogations by the North Korean authorities and living in virtual house arrest in guesthouses, the reports said.
韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap)和韩国其他一些新闻媒体称，另一名男子原本希望在朝鲜治疗肾结石。然而，报道称他们六人都受到了朝鲜当局的审问，时间从14个月到45个月不等，他们住在招待所里，实际上等于遭到了软禁。
Investigators said the 65-year-old husband of the dead woman told them that he strangled her and tried but failed to kill himself in what he described as an aborted suicide pact.
调查人员称，前述女死者的丈夫现年65岁，他告诉调查人员，自己本来和妻子商量好一起自杀，他勒死妻子后试图自杀，但却未能成功。
The press officers at the Unification Ministry and intelligence service of the South Korean government said they could not confirm those details. On Friday, North Korea said it had “leniently pardoned” the South Koreans on humanitarian grounds.
韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)和韩国政府情报机构的新闻发言人表示，他们无法核实这些细节。周五，朝鲜方面表示，出于人道主义考虑，他们“仁慈地宽恕了”这些韩国人。
South Korean officials had said earlier that the six would likely face prosecution for violating the National Security Law, which bars South Koreans from visiting the North without approval.
韩国官员早些时候表示，这六人可能会因违反《国家安全法》(National Security Law)而被起诉。该法禁止韩国公民擅自前往朝鲜。
About 25,000 North Koreans have defected to the South in the past two decades to escape hunger and political repression. Nearly all of them fled through China because the North-South border is tightly guarded.
过去二十年里，约有2.5万朝鲜人为逃离饥饿和政治迫害而叛逃至韩国。几乎所有人都取道中国，因为朝韩边境守卫森严。
The South Korean news reports said the six men entered North Korea by swimming across rivers from China or by walking when the rivers froze in winter. Kim Eui-do, the Unification Ministry spokesman, said last week that it was impossible to determine how many South Koreans had entered the North through China. But it is widely considered rare for South Koreans to defect to the impoverished North.
韩国的新闻报道称，六名男子进入朝鲜的方式或是从中国游泳过河，或是在冬天河水结冰时步行过境。统一部发言人金义韬（Kim Eui-do，音译）上周表示，无法确认有多少韩国人从中国进入了朝鲜。不过，人们普遍认为，韩国人叛逃到穷国朝鲜的事情并不多见。