HONG KONG ---- Michael Wolff’s book about the Trump administration has been getting mixed reviews from critics and others, but it’s finding fulsome praise in one corner: North Korean state media, which says the book’s popularity “foretells Trump’s political demise.”
香港——迈克尔·沃尔夫(Michael Wolff)这本有关特朗普政府的书，在书评人士以及其他人之中褒贬不一，但却在一个地方得到了大肆吹捧：称此书的风靡“预示着特朗普政权覆灭”的朝鲜官方媒体。
The book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” has apparently made its way to the so-called hermit kingdom, giving more ammunition to a North Korean government already in a raging propaganda war with President Trump.
《炮火与怒火：特朗普的白宫内部》(Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House)这本书显然已经走进了这个所谓的遁世之国，为已经向特朗普发起狂怒宣传战的朝鲜政府提供了更多弹药。
“The anti-Trump book is sweeping all over the world so Trump is being massively humiliated worldwide,” said a commentary in the country’s Rodong Sinmun newspaper, which is run by the ruling Workers’ Party.
“这本反特朗普的书正席卷全世界，所以特朗普正在被全世界大规模羞辱，”执政的劳动党掌管的朝鲜《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)上一则评论文章写道。
The book has sold so well in the United States — 29,000 hardcover copies the first weekend — that retailers are having trouble keeping it in stock, and digital and audio sales have topped 350,000. Pirated copies of the book are already circulating online in Asia.
这本书在美国销量大好——首个周末就卖出了2.9万册精装本——零售商库经常断货，电子和音频版本的销售量已超35万份。在亚洲，盗版书已经在网上传开了。
Rodong Sinmun said those sales figures were no surprise, given the worldwide enmity toward Mr. Trump, who has belittled the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, as “Little Rocket Man” and suggested that the dictator’s “nuclear button” is too small.
《劳动新闻》表示，鉴于世界对这个曾将朝鲜领袖金正恩贬为“小火箭人”并称其“核按钮”太小的特朗普充满敌意，这样的销量数据并不奇怪。
“Voices calling for the impeachment of Trump are on the rise not only in the United States but also abroad,” the commentary said. “Since the book was published, it has triggered a debate on whether Trump is qualified to be president, even in Western Europe.”
“要求弹劾特朗普的声音不仅美国有，国外也有，”评论写道。“自出版以来，该书引发了对特朗普是否够格担任总统的争论，甚至西欧都在讨论。”
Mr. Trump has derided the book and its author, and has threatened legal action to halt its publication, a warning the publisher, Henry Holt and Company, brushed off while moving up the book’s publication date.
特朗普嘲笑这本书及其作者，并威胁要采取法律手段阻止此书出版。出版商亨利·霍尔特出版公司(Henry Holt & Company)并未理会这一警告，并提前了该书的发行日期。
The book portrays Mr. Trump as inattentive, surrounded by aides who belittle his intelligence and capabilities, and describes the president as presiding over a dysfunctional White House. The administration has characterized the book as a “complete fantasy” full of “tabloid gossip.”
该书描绘了一个注意力涣散的特朗普，身边的助手也看不起他的智商和能力，并描述这位总统主持着一个运转不良的白宫。特朗普政府形容这本书“完全是想像”，充满“小报八卦”。
The North Korean commentary comes after the country has refrained in recent days from attacking Mr. Trump as it held negotiations with South Korea that paved the way for the North’s participation in the Winter Olympics in February in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
这篇评论出现在朝鲜近期克制了对特朗普的攻击之后，因为朝鲜正在与韩国谈判，为参加2月份在韩国平昌举行的冬奥会铺平道路。
Oddly, the North through its commentary was praising a book whose title may be rooted in Mr. Trump’s threat to annihilate the country. In August, Mr. Trump warned he would unleash “fire and fury” against North Korea if it ever endangered the United States.
说也奇怪，朝鲜在评论中称赞的这本书，书名却来源于特朗普想要彻底摧毁朝鲜的威胁。特朗普在8月曾警告说，一旦朝鲜危害美国，他将对朝鲜发动“炮火和怒火”。