SEOUL, South Korea — Top military generals from South and North Korea met on their border on Wednesday but failed to narrow their differences during a rare meeting that followed exchanges of fire recently between troops of both sides, a South Korean spokesman said. Gen. Kim Yong-chol, the chief of the General Bureau of Reconnaissance, the North’s top intelligence agency, met with Lt. Gen. Ryu Je-seung, chief of the Office of Planning and Coordination at the South’s Ministry of National Defense, said Kim Min-seok, the spokesman of the South Korean ministry.
韩国首尔——韩国和朝鲜的高级军事将领周三在两国边界线会面，但未能在这次罕见会面中缩小双方的分歧，会面发生在双方军队最近的一次交火之后，一位韩国发言人说。韩国国防部发言人金珉奭说，朝鲜最高情报机构朝鲜侦察总局局长金永哲大将与韩国国防部政策协调室室长柳济胜中将(Lt. Gen. Ryu Je-seung)举行了会谈。
During the five-hour talk held at the border village of Panmunjom — north of Seoul, South Korea — North Korea reiterated its objection to the Northern Limit Line in the Yellow Sea, which was drawn by the United Nations at the end of the Korean War in 1953 and defended by South Korea as a legitimate western sea border, Mr. Kim said. The North also repeated its claim to a new sea border many miles south of the Northern Limit Line and demanded that the South keep its ships away from the new maritime demarcation line.
在韩国首尔以北的边界村板门店举行的五小时会谈中，朝鲜重申了其反对黄海中的北部分界线的立场，该界线是联合国在朝鲜战争1953年结束时划定的，韩国将其作为合法的西部海域边界来保守，金珉奭说。朝鲜再次坚持其对位于北方界线以南好几英里的一条新的海上边界的主张，并要求南方不让其船只接近这条新的海上分界线。
The navies of the two Koreas fought bloody skirmishes on the disputed Northern Limit Line in 1999, 2002 and 2009. On Oct. 7, the two sides’ navy boats exchanged fire over the line, without hitting each other.
朝韩两国的海军在1999年、2002年和2009年在有争议的北方界线附近发生过小的流血冲突。10月7日，双方的海军舰船再次在界线附近交火，但都没有击中对方。
North Korea also demanded that South Korea stop its conservative activists, including defectors from the North, and its media from slandering the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, the South Korean spokesman said. On Friday, the two armies exchanged machine-gun fire after the North tried to shoot down large balloons carrying anti-Kim Jong-un propaganda leaflets that South Korean activists had released across the border. No casualties were reported.
韩国国防部发言人说，朝鲜还要求韩国阻止国内保守派活动人士，包括脱北者及韩国媒体，继续诽谤朝鲜最高领导人金正恩。上周五，韩国活动人士把载有反对金正恩宣传品的大气球释放到边界对面，朝鲜试图将气球击落，之后双方的军队用机枪互相对射，但没有伤亡的报道。
“Our side made it clear that we will defend the Northern Limit Line and that in our free democracy, we cannot stop civic groups from launching balloons or control news media,” said Mr. Kim, the Defense Ministry spokesman. “The meeting ended without setting a date for future talks or reaching any other agreement.”
国防部发言人金珉奭说，“我方明确表示，我们将保卫北方界线，而且，在我们的自由民主制度下，我们不能阻止民间团体发放气球，或控制新闻媒体。会谈结束时，双方没有为未来的会谈设定日期，或达成任何其他协议。”
The border talk was first suggested by North Korea following the Oct. 7 shooting incident, Mr. Kim said.
金珉奭说，举行边界会谈是10月7日枪击事件后北方首先提出的。
The recent border episodes cast doubt on the two Koreas’ earlier agreement to resume high-level government dialogue late this month or early next month. That deal was struck when a group of prominent North Korean officials made a surprise visit to South Korea this month to attend the closing ceremony of the Asian Games.
朝韩边界最近发生的事件，让人们对两国前不久达成的、在本月底或下月初恢复政府间高级别对话的协议产生了怀疑。该协议是在几位朝鲜高级官员本月突然访问韩国期间达成的，这些官员是去参加亚运会的闭幕式。
On Monday, despite the tensions on the border, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea reaffirmed her support for dialogue, adding that her government was ready to have “sincere talks” with Pyongyang on lifting the economic sanctions the South imposed after blaming a North Korean torpedo attack for the sinking of a South Korean Navy ship in 2010.
尽管边境出现了紧张局势，但韩国总统朴槿惠仍在周一重申，她支持对话，并表示她的政府已为与平壤就解除经济制裁进行“真诚对话”做好了准备。韩国指责朝鲜在2010年击沉一艘韩国军舰，之后对朝鲜采取了经济制裁措施。