SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea lashed out at the United States on Saturday, blaming it for disruptions that cut off the nation’s already limited connections to the Internet, while once again rejecting American accusations that it was behind the hacking of Sony Pictures.
韩国首尔——周六，朝鲜对美国进行了猛烈抨击，称美国的干扰切断了朝鲜本已比较有限的互联网连接，同时再次否认了美国的指责——朝鲜是索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)所受网络攻击的幕后主使。
The statement, carried by the North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency, also called President Obama a “monkey” for urging the film studio to release “The Interview,” a comedy depicting the assassination of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. Sony had canceled the movie’s release after online threats of attacks on theaters, but then reversed itself after Mr. Obama criticized it for capitulating to North Korean pressure.
这份由朝鲜官方媒体中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)刊载的声明，还因为奥巴马总统敦促索尼发布《采访》(The Interview)，而把他称作“猴子”。《采访》是一个喜剧，讲述的是刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的故事。由于网上有人威胁要袭击影院，索尼便取消了电影的放映。随后，因为奥巴马批评它屈从朝鲜的压力，公司又改变了决定。
The statement by the National Defense Commission, which is led by Mr. Kim and is the country’s most powerful governing body, is the North’s first response to the intermittent disruptions that have crippled its tenuous connection to cyberspace since Monday. The connectivity problems, which at one point appeared to sever North Korea completely from the Internet, started days after Mr. Obama vowed to retaliate for the damaging attack on the Sony film studio.
由金正恩领导的国防委员会(National Defense Commission)是朝鲜权力最大的统治机构。自上周一以来，朝鲜原本就非常薄弱的网络连接因为间歇性的干扰而陷入瘫痪，该机构的声明是朝鲜对此事的首次回应。奥巴马坚定地表示要为索尼影业受到的破坏性攻击实施报复，几天之后连接故障似乎就一度彻底切断了朝鲜的互联网接入。
Speaking last week, Mr. Obama said he held the North responsible for the hacking of Sony, which took place just before the studio was to release “The Interview.” The attackers stole confidential emails, salary information and unreleased movies, which they then posted online.
奥巴马上周发表讲话时说，他认为朝鲜应该对索尼受到的网络攻击负责。索尼是在《采访》即将上映时受到攻击的。攻击者窃取了机密邮件、工资信息和尚未发行的电影，然后把它们公布在了网上。
The United States has denied playing a role in the disruptions, which struck many of North Korea’s few websites. Internet experts have said the failures could have been caused by anything from technical malfunctions to a hacking attack. However, in its statement on Saturday, the North made clear that it viewed the disruptions as the work of an American attack in retaliation for the Sony hacking.
美国否认与朝鲜受到的干扰有关，朝鲜为数不多的网站中有许多都受到了攻击。网络专家表示，引起故障的原因很多，既可能是因为技术故障，也可能是因为黑客攻击。不过，朝鲜在周六的声明中明确表示，它认为这些干扰是美国的攻击所造成的，其目的在于报复索尼受到的黑客攻击。
While North Korea did not say if it would retaliate for the disruptions, it did accuse the United States of acting like a schoolyard bully.
虽然朝鲜没有说明是否会对此举进行报复，但朝鲜指责美国的行为像校园恶霸一样。
“The United States, with its large physical size and oblivious to the shame of playing hide and seek as children with runny noses would, has begun disrupting the Internet operations of the main media outlets of our republic,” said the statement. In the past few days, the websites of the state-run news agency and the newspaper Rodong Sinmun, two of the North’s main outlets to the world, were among those that went dead for several hours.
声明称，“体格庞大的美国却像个流着鼻涕，恬不知耻地玩捉迷藏的小孩一样，开始侵扰我国主要媒体的网站。”过去几天中，一些媒体网站瘫痪了几个小时，其中包括朝鲜的两大对外传播窗口——朝中社及朝鲜报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)的网站。
The North also blamed Mr. Obama for the release of the movie, which it said undermined “the dignity of the supreme leadership.”
朝鲜还对奥巴马鼓励放映电影的行为表示谴责，称这种行为玷污了“最高领导层的尊严”。
“Obama always goes reckless in words and deeds like a monkey in a tropical forest,” the statement said.
声明称，“奥巴马总是言行莽撞，就像热带雨林里的一只猴子。”
This is not the first time the North, which is fond of bombastic language, has used racist or otherwise crude insults against the leaders of the United States and its allies. Earlier this year, it also likened Mr. Obama to a monkey, and also called President Park Geun-hye of South Korea a prostitute.
朝鲜喜欢使用夸张的语言，这并不是朝鲜第一次对美国及其盟友的领导人发起种族主义攻击，或以其他方式辱骂。今年早些时候，朝鲜就曾将奥巴马比作猴子，还称韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)为娼妓。
The statement on Saturday also repeated earlier denials that North Korea was behind the attack on Sony Pictures, and demanded that the United States back up its accusation with proof.
朝鲜周六发表的声明重复了之前的论调，否认朝鲜是索尼受到的网络攻击的幕后主使，并要求美国拿出证据证明其指控。