SEOUL, South Korea — Hyon Song-wol is not quite North Korea’s version of Beyoncé. But as a popular singer and leader of the nation’s best-known girl band that often performs in miniskirts, she attracts plenty of attention. Last Friday, millions watched on national television as she saluted the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, for his “heavenly trust and warm care” in promoting the arts.
韩国首尔——玄松月(Hyon Song-wol)还算不上是朝鲜版的碧昂斯(Beyoncé)。不过，作为人气歌手和朝鲜最著名女子乐团的团长，她依然吸引了大量的关注，该乐团常常身着超短裙表演。上周五，在有数百万观众观看的全国性电视节目中，她向朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)表达敬意，感谢后者在推动艺术发展时给予了乐团“无上的信任和温暖的关怀”。
Yet to many across the border in South Korea, Ms. Hyon’s performance was most surprising because she appeared at all. Voluminous news reports there, and throughout much of the world, asserted months ago that she had been machine-gunned to death on orders of the North Korean leader, said to have been her onetime boyfriend.
然而，在国境线另一边的韩国，玄松月的此次表演对许多人而言，最令人吃惊的原因是她竟然现身了。在韩国及全球许多地方，有大量新闻报道于数月前声称，玄松月已经被朝鲜领导人下令用机枪处死。据说金正恩曾是她的男友。
It was unclear whether her appearance, at a national gathering of artists, was meant as a message that more than just her execution was fiction. But it was a reminder of the near impossibility of saying with certainty what is happening in North Korea, the world’s most opaque country.
目前还不清楚，她在全国文艺工作者大会上现身，除了表明她被处决的消息是虚假的之外，是否还有别的意义。不过这次现身提醒我们，要想准确地断言，在朝鲜这个全世界最难捉摸的国家到底在发生什么，几乎是不可能的。
“The rumor mill about North Korea is out of control,” said Bill Richardson, the former governor of New Mexico, who has visited North Korea several times as a United States government emissary. It is a problem, he said, “more now than ever, since we know so little about Kim Jong-un and his true intentions and governing style.”
新墨西哥州前州长比尔·理查森(Bill Richardson)曾作为美国政府密使多次访问朝鲜。理查森表示，“关于朝鲜的谣言已经失控。”他说，“鉴于我们对金正恩及其真实意图和执政方式几乎一无所知，这个问题比以往任何时候都要严重。”
It is not as though the executions of those closest to Mr. Kim is an outlandish accusation. North Korea’s own state media has in some ways nurtured the image of him as a vicious dictator, confirming that his own uncle and mentor was executed last December for seeking to usurp power and other crimes, including personal enrichment and debauchery. Mr. Kim also has threatened the United States with nuclear weapons, and a United Nations inquiry into the country’s human rights record has accused him of overseeing a system of gulags where prisoners are beaten and starved.
这并不表示，金正恩最亲密的身边人遭到处决，似乎是一种不着边际的指控。在某种程度上，是朝鲜本国的官方媒体把金正恩塑造成了一名残暴的独裁者。朝鲜官媒证实，他的姑父兼导师在去年12月因为篡权、私自敛财和私生活不检点等罪名而遭到处决。金正恩还用核武器威胁美国。联合国(United Nations)对朝鲜人权状况开展的一项调查指出，金正恩经营着一套古拉格式的体系，囚犯在其中遭到殴打、忍饥挨饿。
Sometimes the fears about Mr. Kim’s intentions are derived from scientific evidence. For weeks, intelligence officials in South Korea and the United States have been reporting what could be an imminent nuclear test by North Korea, based partly on satellite imagery of a test area that shows increased activity. But nobody really knows.
有时，对金正恩意图的担忧源于科学的证据。几周以来，韩国和美国情报官员一直称，朝鲜可能即将进行核试验，其依据部分来源于一处试验区的卫星图像，图像显示了朝方在那里的活动在增加。不过，没有人能确信。
Obtaining accurate information of the hierarchy surrounding Mr. Kim is, at best, guesswork, with many once thought close him purged or replaced.
要获得金正恩权力圈的准确信息，充其量只能猜测，因为许多曾被认为和他关系亲近的人都遭到了清洗，或被撤换了。
Mr. Kim, grandson of North Korea’s founder, Kim Il-sung, has remained such a mysterious figure since his ascent more than two years ago that any supposed detail about him can quickly assume the trappings of fact. It was widely reported last year, for example, that when Mr. Kim purged his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, he had him ripped apart and eaten by hungry dogs. The origin of that story turned out to be an unattributed Chinese blog post.
金正恩是朝鲜开国者金日成(Kim Il-sung)的孙子，他在两年多前上台以来，一直维持着神秘的面目，以至于每每获悉有关他的所谓细节，人们很快都会以为那反映了部分事实。例如，去年金正恩清洗他的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)时，媒体广泛报道称，他下令让饿狗撕咬张成泽，分食其尸体。事实证明，这则报道的出处是某篇未具名的中国博客帖子。
In August last year, the conservative South Korean daily Chosun Ilbo reported that Mr. Kim had ordered the executions of a dozen North Korean performers, including Ms. Hyon, for making videos of themselves performing sex acts and then selling the recordings.
去年8月，保守派韩国报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)报道称，金正恩下令处决了数十名朝鲜艺人，其中包括玄松月，原因是这些人制作并销售了自己出演的性爱视频。
The Japanese daily Asahi Shimbun added credibility to the story, later reporting that Mr. Kim had ordered the executions to prevent the spreading of rumors that his wife, Ri Sol-ju, had engaged in similar acts when she was a singer.
日本的日报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)随后报道称，金正日下令处决这些人，是为了防止他的妻子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)在当歌手时曾从事过此类行为的传言扩散开来。该报的报道增加了传闻的可信度。
Nam Jae-joon, director of South Korea’s National Intelligence Service, helped fuel such reports by telling lawmakers in Seoul that his agency was aware of them, although he did not specify who was executed.
韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)院长南在俊(Nam Jae-joon)在首尔对议员们表示，他领导的情报机构了解到了这些消息，不过他没有具体透露被处决的是谁。他的话对这些报道起到了推波助澜的作用。
North Korea called the reports “an unpardonable hideous provocation hurting the dignity of the supreme leadership.” Other newspapers in South Korea continued to carry similar articles, quoting the earlier reports or anonymous sources.
朝鲜称，这些报道“是不可饶恕的丑恶挑衅，冒犯了最高领袖的尊严”。韩国的其他报刊则继续发表类似的文章，并在文中援引早前的报道或其他匿名信源。
It was not until Friday, however, that the North Korean government seemed to find a way to push back, showing Ms. Hyon, in a crisply pressed green military uniform, addressing the National Meeting of Artists in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, about the beneficence Mr. Kim bestowed on her and her group of female singers, Moranbong, known for their short skirts and performances of such icons of American pop as “My Way” and the “Rocky” theme song.
不过，直到上周五，朝鲜政府似乎才找到反击的途径。朝方展现了玄松月穿着一身笔挺绿色军装，在朝鲜首都平壤的全国文艺工作者大会上致辞的情景。玄松月感谢金正恩对她和她所在的牡丹峰(Moranbong)女子乐团给予的关怀。牡丹峰乐团以成员身着短裙，演唱美国流行歌曲而闻名，她们演唱的曲目有《My Way》，以及《洛奇》(Rocky)的主题曲。
“Today’s Moranbong Band is possible only because of the heavenly trust and warm care of the Dear Marshal,” Ms. Hyon said on the television broadcast.
玄松月在电视转播中表示，“牡丹峰乐团之所以能有今天的成就，完全是因为敬爱的元帅给予了我们崇高的信任和亲切的关怀。”
North Korea has long been a breeding ground for lurid gossip, including gratuitous methods of execution. Recently, for example, South Korean news media said one of Mr. Jang’s co-conspirators had been executed by flamethrower. A few years ago, when Mr. Kim was mourning the death of his father and predecessor, Kim Jong-il, they also reported he had an intoxicated military officer killed with mortars for showing disrespect.
朝鲜一直都在传出骇人听闻的流言，包括用无谓的残忍手法处决囚犯。例如，就在最近，韩国媒体报道称，张成泽同谋之一被用火焰喷射器处死。几年前，当金正恩悼念他的父亲、前任领导人金正日(Kim Jong-il)时，韩国媒体也报道称，有一名喝醉的军官因为举止不敬，被他下令用迫击炮给处死了。
South Korean intelligence services often get things right in their guesswork, correctly interpreting changes at the top by noting who is standing where in official photographs and televised images. They first suspected Mr. Jang was in trouble, for example, when he was missing from group photographs of important occasions. An official announcement by the North Korean government later confirmed he had been executed for treason and corruption in December.
韩国情报机构的猜测往往是准确的，通过关注朝鲜官方图片和电视画面中现身的人物所站的次序，准确诠释了朝鲜最高层的变动。举例来说，当张成泽从重要场合的集体照中消失时，韩国情报机构首次怀疑他遇到了麻烦。朝鲜政府随后发表的官方声明确认，他已在去年12月因叛国罪和腐败行为被处决。
“It takes time before a report on North Korea is proven right or wrong, and even if a story turns out to be wrong, there is little disadvantage for reporting it,” Lee Won-sup, a former journalist who is now a professor of news media studies at Gachon University in South Korea, said during a seminar last week.
“要确认涉及朝鲜的报道是否真实，是需要时间的，即使一则报道被证实有误，报道了也不会有什么后果，”前记者李元燮（Lee Won-sup，音译）在上周举行的一场研讨会上表示，他目前是韩国嘉泉大学(Gachon University)从事媒体研究的教授。
“That’s why we repeatedly see incorrect, sensational and fictional news reports quoting anonymous sources,” he said.
“这就是我们一再看到不准确的、耸人听闻的虚假报道的原因，那些报道只援引一些匿名信源，”他说。