North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, announced early Saturday that his country no longer needed to test nuclear weapons or long-range missiles and would close a nuclear test site.
周六早间，朝鲜领导人金正恩宣布，他的国家不再需要试射核武器或远程导弹，并将关闭一个核试验场。
“The nuclear test site has done its job,” Mr. Kim said in a statement carried by North Korea’s state media.
金正恩在朝鲜官方媒体发表的声明中说：“核试验场已完成使命。”
Mr. Kim’s announcement came just days before a scheduled summit meeting with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea; Mr. Kim is also planning to meet with President Trump soon. It was the second time in two days that he made what appeared to be a significant concession to the United States but in reality cemented the status quo. North Korea already had stopped testing its weapons.
金正恩的宣布是在与韩国总统文在寅预定举行首脑会议前几天发布的，金正恩还计划很快要与特朗普总统见面。这是他在两天内第二次对美国做出似乎很大的让步，但实际上仍是固守了现状。朝鲜已经停止了对其武器的测试。
Mr. Kim made no mention in his latest remarks of dismantling the nuclear weapons and long-range missiles North Korea has already built. On the contrary, he suggested he was going to keep them.
金正恩没有提及最近他提到的关于拆除朝鲜已经建造的核武器和远程导弹的言论。相反，他表示将保留它们。
Still, Mr. Trump welcomed what Mr. Kim said. “North Korea has agreed to suspend all Nuclear Tests and close up a major test site,” the president said in a Twitter message. “This is very good news for North Korea and the World — big progress! Look forward to our Summit.”
但特朗普仍对金正恩的发言表示欢迎。 “朝鲜已同意暂停所有核试验并关闭一个主要试验场地，”他在一则Twitter帖子中称。 “这对于朝鲜和世界来说是个好消息——很大的进步！期待我们的峰会。”
Mr. Moon’s office also praised the announcement. “We view the North’s decision as a significant step toward the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula the world has wished for,” said Yoon Young-chan, a spokesman for Mr. Moon.
文在寅的办公室也赞扬了这一消息。“我们将朝鲜的决定视为向全世界所期待的半岛无核化迈出的重要一步，”文在寅的发言人尹永灿说。
Despite the enthusiasm, American officials have watched Mr. Kim with a mix of satisfaction and wariness.
尽管表现出了热情，但美国官员对金正恩在满意之外仍有所警惕。
The North Korean leader’s move could be tactical — putting the United States on the defensive in advance of talks on its nuclear arsenal. By extending an olive branch, American officials said, North Korea is putting pressure on the United States to accept a deal before Mr. Kim agrees to give up North Korea’s nuclear weapons.
金正恩的举动可能是战术性的——在就其核武库进行谈判之前让美国处于防御状态。美国官员说，通过抛出橄榄枝，朝鲜正向美国施压，要美国在金正恩同意放弃朝鲜核武器之前接受一项协议。
Mr. Kim could also be trying to drive a wedge between the United States and South Korea, since President Moon has put great emphasis on ending more than six decades of conflict on the Korean Peninsula.
由于文在寅非常重视结束朝鲜半岛60多年的冲突，因此金正恩也可能试图破坏美国和韩国之间的关系。
On Thursday, Mr. Moon said Mr. Kim had made a similar gesture, saying the North no longer insisted on the withdrawal of American troops from the Korean Peninsula. But White House officials privately dismissed the remarks, saying removal of the troops was never on the table.
周四，文在寅说，金正恩也作了类似的表示，称朝鲜不再坚持美国军队撤出朝鲜半岛。但白宫官员私下驳斥了这一说法，称撤除部队的讨论从未摆在谈判桌上。