SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, has removed an official who was widely considered No. 2 in his government from top military and party posts, according to reports in the country’s state-run news media.
韩国首尔——根据朝鲜官方新闻媒体的报道，该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)已解除了曾被广泛认为是政府二号人物的一名官员的高级军职与党内职务。
For the past two years, the official, Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, had been head of the General Political Bureau of the North Korean People’s Army, the second most powerful military post. Mr. Kim is the supreme commander.
过去两年间，次帅崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)一直担任朝鲜人民军总政治局局长，在军中位居第二。金正恩本人则是军队的最高统帅。
Under Mr. Kim, Mr. Choe had gained other powerful posts; he has been a member of the Presidium of the Political Bureau of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea and a vice chairman of its Central Military Commission.
金正恩执政期间，崔龙海还获得了其他一些高级职位：他是执政的朝鲜劳动党政治局常委、中央军委副主席。
Mr. Choe was widely believed to have also been the second-most influential person in the government, a position he apparently cemented after Jang Song-thaek, Mr. Kim’s uncle and the previous presumed No. 2, was executed in December on charges of plotting to unseat his nephew.
崔龙海此前被广泛认为是朝鲜政府中排名第二的实权人物。去年12月，前二号人物、金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)遭处决，罪名是密谋推翻金正恩的统治。此后，崔龙海的地位似乎得以巩固。
On Friday, however, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency disclosed Mr. Choe’s dismissal from the military post when it identified Vice Marshal Hwang Pyong-so as the military’s new top political officer while reporting on Mr. Hwang’s visit to a textile workers’ dormitory the previous day.
不过，上周五，该国官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)披露，崔龙海的军职已遭取代。在这篇报道次帅黄炳誓(Hwang Pyong-so)头一天视察纺织厂工人宿舍的文章中，采用的称呼表明，黄炳誓成为了新的军队最高政治官员。
On Saturday, the news agency indicated that Mr. Choe had been stripped of his other top posts. While reporting Mr. Kim’s visit to a youth camp the previous day, the agency identified Mr. Choe as a party secretary in charge of labor groups, a relatively minor job that he held before his rapid rise to influence began two years ago.
到了周六，朝中社的用语显示，崔龙海已被解除了其他高级职务。在报道金正恩前一天出席青少年团夏令营的活动时，朝中社称崔龙海是劳动党中央书记。这是个相对较低的职位，他两年前开始迅速崛起之前也曾待在这个位子上。
Mr. Choe was the latest in a list of top officials who had been purged or demoted as Mr. Kim frequently reshuffles the elites to consolidate his power. Mr. Choe’s demotion was dramatic because he had been the fastest-rising star under Mr. Kim’s young leadership. If anything, it showed that Mr. Kim, like his father, Kim Jong-il, was obsessed with establishing a monolithic power, allowing no true No. 2.
在金正恩为巩固自身权力而频繁进行的高层人事调整中，有多名顶级官员遭清洗或降职，而崔龙海是名单中最新的一个。崔龙海遭贬颇具戏剧性，因为在年轻的金正恩旗下，他之前一直平步青云。如果说有何意味的话，这表明金正恩与父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)一样，执迷于建立大权独揽的政治体制，不允许实质性的二号人物存在。
In his last appearance in the North Korean news media, on Saturday, Mr. Choe was still wearing the uniform of a vice marshal while attending a meeting of the Central Military Commission, during which Mr. Hwang was made vice marshal.
崔龙海最近一次出现在朝鲜新闻媒体中是上周六。他仍然身着表明其次帅军衔的制服，参加了中央军委的会议。会上，黄炳誓晋升为次帅。
Mr. Choe was less frequently seen accompanying Mr. Kim. In the North, the frequency with which an official is seen with Mr. Kim and the rank of his name in a list of party secretaries and military generals accompanying the top leader are two of the most important gauges of his status.
前段时间，崔龙海较少被看到陪同金正恩出席活动。在朝鲜，衡量官员地位有两大重要标准：一是与最高领导人金正恩共同出现的频次，二是在陪同他的军政领导人名单中的排位。