BEIJING — North Korea has accused an American veteran of war crimes and on Saturday released a video of him confessing to what it said were “hostile acts” during the Korean War and while he was visiting the country in October.
北京——朝鲜指控一名美国老兵犯有战争罪，并于周六公布了一段认罪视频，这名老兵在视频中承认，自己在朝鲜战争及今年10月访朝期间存在所谓的“敌意举动”。
The veteran, Merrill Newman, 85, of Palo Alto, Calif., who has been held since Oct. 26, appeared on the video dressed in casual Western clothes and wearing glasses as he read excerpts from an apology written on several sheets of white paper. The text contained several awkward English constructions and grammatical errors.
这名老兵名叫梅里尔·纽曼(Merrill Newman)，现年85岁，家住加利福尼亚的帕罗奥图，于10月26日被朝鲜拘押。视频当中，纽曼身穿西式便装，戴着眼镜，宣读了写在几张白纸上的道歉声明的部分内容。道歉声明中存在几处蹩脚的英文表达及语法错误。
In the apology, Mr. Newman said he was an adviser for the Kuwol Unit of the United Nations Korea Sixth Partisan Regiment, which served with the Intelligence Bureau of the Far East Command.
纽曼在道歉声明中表示，他曾是联合国朝鲜游击队第六团旗下九月部队(Kuwol Unit of the United Nations Korea Sixth Partisan Regiment)的顾问，该部队隶属美军远东司令部情报局(Intelligence Bureau of the Far East Command)。
A person familiar with Mr. Newman’s military record and his current situation in captivity in North Korea said that Mr. Newman served as an adviser in that unit in 1953 before the armistice. The unit operated behind the lines in North Korea, but Mr. Newman conducted his duties as an adviser on Chodo, an island off the west coast of what is now North Korea, the person said. In the beginning of the video, Mr. Newman mentioned Chodo as the place where he was stationed. The person speaking about Mr. Newman’s situation declined to be identified because of the delicacy of the case.
一名熟知纽曼服役记录及目前在朝囚禁状况的人士表示，纽曼在1953年停战之前曾在九月部队担任顾问。这名知情人士表示，该部队在朝鲜后方行动，纽曼却在朝鲜西海岸的椒岛履行顾问职责。纽曼在视频开头提到了椒岛，称那是他驻扎的地方。由于事件敏感，这名谈论纽曼情况的知情人士要求匿名。
The Swedish ambassador visited Mr. Newman on Saturday, and told his family that he was in good health and being treated well, according to a statement from the family. The United States has no diplomatic relations with North Korea and has been dealing with Mr. Newman’s situation through the Swedish Embassy, which represents its interests in the North.
纽曼的家人发表声明称，瑞典驻朝鲜大使于周六看望了纽曼，并告诉纽曼的家人，纽曼健康状况良好，获得善待。美国与朝鲜没有建立外交关系，一直在通过瑞典大使馆(Swedish Embassy)处理纽曼事件。瑞典大使馆在朝鲜代表美国利益。
“Our focus now is on getting him home quickly to join his loved ones, who miss him deeply,” the statement said. “We are asking that the D.P.R.K. authorities take into account his health and his age and, as an act of humanitarian compassion, allow him to depart immediately for home.” The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or D.P.R.K., is North Korea’s official name.
“我们主要想让他尽快回到深深思念他的亲人身边，”纽曼家人的声明说道。“我们请求朝鲜人民民主共和国（Democratic People's Republic of Korea，简称DPRK）当局考虑他的健康状况和年龄，出于人道主义同情，允许他立即启程回家。”朝鲜人民民主共和国是朝鲜的正式名称。
In the apology, Mr. Newman describes how he wanted to meet “surviving soldiers and pray for the souls of the dead soldiers” from the unit he worked with. If he met any surviving soldiers he planned to put them in touch with members of the Kuwol Partisan Comrades-in-Arms Association who had escaped to South Korea, the apology said.
纽曼在道歉声明中说，他当时很想见到九月部队的“幸存战友，并告慰死去战友的灵魂”。道歉声明称，如果有机会见到九月部队幸存者，他计划帮他们与从朝鲜逃至韩国的九月山游击军战友会(Kuwol Partisan Comrades-in-Arms Association)成员取得联系。
An email from Mr. Newman to friends in South Korea telling them of his impending trip to North Korea and his hopes of meeting with relatives of the partisan group is embedded in the video of the apology.
纽曼曾给韩国的一些朋友发送邮件，告知朋友他将前往朝鲜，并且希望见到九月部队成员的亲属。道歉视频显示了这封邮件。
Mr. Newman said in the apology, the text of which was released by the state-run Korean Central News Agency, that he had asked his tour guide to look for families and relatives of the Comrades-in-Arms group, which is described in the apology as “an anti-Communist strategic plot organization.”
纽曼在道歉视频中表示，他曾请导游帮他寻找战友会成员的家人和亲属，朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)发布了道歉声明的文本，声明称该战友会为“反共战略策划组织”。
In a statement also released by the Korean news agency that accompanied the apology, North Korea characterized Mr. Newman’s activities during the tour as “trying to look for spies and terrorists who conducted espionage and subversive activity” and to “connect them” to an anti-North Korean organization. It charged that Mr. Newman was “slandering” North Korea and had “perpetrated acts of infringing upon the dignity and sovereignty” of the country. The statement also referred to Mr. Newman’s wartime activities.
在朝鲜新闻机构与道歉声明一同发布的另一份声明中，朝鲜称纽曼在访朝期间“试图寻找开展间谍及颠覆性活动的情报人员和恐怖分子”，还试图帮他们与一个反朝组织“取得联系”。声明控告纽曼“诋毁”朝鲜，并“从事了侵犯朝鲜尊严和主权的犯罪活动”。声明还提到了纽曼在战争时期的行为。
“As I killed so many civilians and K.P.A. soldiers and destroyed strategic objects in the D.P.R.K. during the Korean War, I committed indelible offensive acts against the D.P.R.K. government and Korean people,” the apology said.
道歉声明说，“我在朝鲜战争期间杀害了许多平民和朝鲜人民军(KPA)士兵，毁坏了朝鲜的战略目标，由此对朝鲜政府和朝鲜人民犯下了不可原谅的罪行。”
Col. Ben S. Malcom, who commanded a unit of about 800 North Korean anti-Communist partisans during the war, said American soldiers commanded and advised more than 20 partisan units that did everything from raiding North Korean military redoubts to counterfeiting North Korean currency, robbing banks and stealing oxen.
本·S·马尔科姆上校(Col. Ben S. Malcom)曾在朝鲜战争中指挥一支由大约800名朝鲜反共游击人员组成的队伍，他说，美国士兵曾指挥和引导20多个游击队，这些游击队从事各种活动，包括袭击朝鲜军事阵地、伪造朝鲜货币、抢劫银行和盗窃牲口，如此等等。
“We were the people who were leading the North Korean guerrilla forces” against the North Korean Army, said Colonel Malcom, 84. “That’s probably the reason they are holding him at the present time,” he said of Mr. Newman. Speaking Saturday from his home in Atlanta, Colonel Malcom said that given the partisan fighters’ destructiveness, he was not surprised at North Korea’s treatment of Mr. Newman.
“我们的任务是领导朝鲜游击队”来对抗朝鲜军队，84岁的马尔科姆上校说。“这或许就是他们现在要扣留他的原因，”他指的是纽曼。上周六，马尔科姆上校在位于亚特兰大的家中说，由于这些游击队造成了极大的破坏，他对纽曼在朝鲜受到的待遇并不惊讶。
“I wouldn’t even consider going into North Korea,” he said.
他说，“去朝鲜的事情，我想都不会去想。”
According to American military documents declassified in 1990, the United Nations partisan warfare mission organized in 1951 eventually mobilized about 23,000 guerrillas to fight against North Korea, overseen by about 200 American advisers.
根据1990年解密的美国军方文件，始于1951年的联合国游击战行动最终动员了大约2.3万名游击队员来对抗朝鲜，指挥他们的是大约200名美国顾问。
Mr. Newman, a retired technology executive and a world traveler, went to North Korea on a trip organized by a licensed tour group to fulfill a longtime desire to return to the Korean Peninsula, his family said.
纽曼的家人说，纽曼是一名退休的科技行业管理人员，经常在世界各地旅游，这次他跟着一个有执照的旅行社前往朝鲜，为的是实现自己重回朝鲜半岛的长年心愿。
There was no indication from North Korea what the next steps in his case would be.
朝鲜尚未表示，下一步将如何处理他的案件。
On Saturday, the United States urged North Korea to release Mr. Newman immediately along with another American detainee, Kenneth Bae, said Caitlin Hayden, a White House spokeswoman. Mr. Bae, 44, a Christian missionary, was arrested last year during a visit to North Korea and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for committing “hostile acts” against the North.
白宫女发言人凯特琳·海登(Caitlin Hayden)说，美国已于周六敦促朝鲜立即释放纽曼和另一名被拘美国人肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)。44岁的肯尼斯·裴是一名基督教传教士，去年在朝鲜被捕，并因针对朝鲜的“敌意举动”而被判处15年劳改。
In the written apology, which was dated Nov. 9, Mr. Newman is quoted as saying: “If I go back to U.S.A., I will tell the true features of the D.P.R.K. and the life the Korean people are leading.”
纽曼的书面道歉标注的日期为11月9日，他在其中表示：“如果回到美国，我会把朝鲜的真实情况和朝鲜人民的生活状况告诉人们。”
The fact that Mr. Newman made a televised apology could lead to his release fairly soon, said Andrei Lankov, an expert on North Korea and the author of “The Real North Korea.”
朝鲜问题专家、《真实的朝鲜》(The Real North Korea)的作者安德鲁·兰科夫(Andrei Lankov)说，既然纽曼已经在电视上道了歉，他有可能很快获释。
“So far, such public acts of repentance have usually been followed by the release of those detained, and this is likely to happen again,” Mr. Lankov said.
兰科夫说，“迄今为止，这样的公开道歉通常会使被拘留的人获得释放，这种情况很可能会再次发生。”
An American Christian missionary, Robert Park, who crossed into North Korea in December 2009 and was held for more than a month, was released shortly after he signed an apology, Mr. Lankov said.
兰科夫说，美国基督教活动人士朴东勋（Robert Park，朴东勋是他的韩文名——译注）于2009年12月进入朝鲜，随后遭到逮捕，并被拘留了一个多月，签署道歉声明之后，他很快就获得了释放。
Mr. Newman was pulled off a plane on Oct. 26 as it was preparing to leave North Korea. Something appeared to have gone awry on the last full day of Mr. Newman’s tour when he was asked to talk to one of his guides in the presence of another North Korean and without his traveling companion, a fellow retiree from California, his son, Jeff Newman, said after his father’s detention.
10月26日，纽曼乘坐的飞机正要离开朝鲜的时候，他被人带下了飞机。他的儿子杰夫·纽曼(Jeff Newman)在父亲被捕后说，纽曼朝鲜行程的最后一个整天，事情似乎有些不对劲。当时有人要求他当着另一名朝鲜人与旅行团的一名导游谈话，并且不让他的旅伴、来自加州的另一名退休人员在场。
Mr. Newman told his companion, Bob Hamrdla, that the conversation had not gone well and that he had a bad feeling about it, Mr. Newman’s son said.
纽曼的儿子说，纽曼后来告诉旅伴鲍勃·哈姆德拉(Bob Hamrdla)，谈话进行得并不顺利，他感觉事情不妙。
Jeff Newman had appealed to the North Korean government for the return of his father so that he could be home for Thanksgiving.
杰夫·纽曼曾请求朝鲜政府释放父亲，好让父亲能回家过感恩节。
The two Americans traveled with two Korean guides on a trip organized by the London-based Juche Travel Services, an outfit that says it appeals to “smart, independent” travelers.
经伦敦自主旅行社(Juche Travel Services)安排，这两名美国人在两名朝鲜导游的陪同下进行旅游。旅行社宣称它的服务适合“精明、独立的”游客。
The State Department’s special envoy for North Korea, Glyn T. Davies, said in Tokyo last week that the United States was considering strengthening economic sanctions against North Korea, partly in response to the situation involving Mr. Newman. After his detention, the State Department stiffened its travel advisory, warning Americans they could be subject to arbitrary arrest if they went to North Korea as tourists.
美国国务院朝鲜事务特别代表格林·T·戴维斯(Glyn T. Davies)上周在东京表示，美国正在考虑加强对朝鲜的经济制裁力度，这样做一定程度上是为了回应纽曼被拘一事。纽曼被捕后，美国国务院加强了对美国公民的旅行警告，提醒美国公民，去朝鲜旅游可能会遭受朝鲜的无故逮捕。