SEOUL, South Korea — A senior North Korean official who defected to the South told reporters on Tuesday that the North viewed 2017 as the best time to advance its nuclear program because it could take advantage of leadership changes in the United States and South Korea.
韩国首尔——一名叛逃至韩国的朝鲜高级官员于周二告诉记者，趁着美国和韩国的领导层变动，朝鲜把2017年看作进一步发展其核计划的最好时机。
The official, Thae Yong-ho, North Korea’s No. 2 diplomat in London, is the most senior North Korean official to defect in nearly two decades. At a news conference with South Korean reporters — his first meeting with outside journalists since his defection in August — he cautioned that as a diplomat, he was not privy to the status of North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.
此人名叫泰勇浩（Thae Yong Ho，音译），曾为朝鲜驻伦敦大使馆的二号官员，是近二十年来朝鲜叛逃官员中级别最高的一个。在面向韩国记者的新闻发布会上——这是他于今年8月叛逃以来首次和外界的记者见面——他提醒道，作为一名外交官，他并不知道朝鲜核武器计划的状况。
Yet he said North Korea was also confident that China would not punish it too harshly for its nuclear program, out of fear that the North’s collapse would create a pro-American, unified Korea on its border.
不过他说，朝鲜还相信，其核计划不会招致来自中国的过于严厉的惩罚，因为中国担心朝鲜一旦崩溃，在其边境就会出现一个统一的、亲美国的朝鲜半岛。
“North Korea knows this weakness of China,” Mr. Thae said. “As long as Kim Jong-un is in power, North Korea will never give up its nuclear weapons, even if it’s offered $1 trillion or $10 trillion in rewards.”
“朝鲜知道中国的这个软肋，”泰勇浩说。“只要当权的还是金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，朝鲜就绝不会放弃核武器，即便外界为它提供1万亿或者10万亿美元作为回报也不行。”
The foreign news media was not allowed into Mr. Thae’s 150-minute news conference in Seoul with local reporters. But a transcript revealed Mr. Thae’s thoughts on his home country and its leader, Mr. Kim.
此次新闻发布会在首尔召开，时长为150分钟，仅面向韩国记者，外国媒体不得参加。但从一份文字记录中可以看到泰勇浩对自己的祖国及其领导人金正恩的想法。
He said Mr. Kim did not consider his nuclear weapons program a bargaining chip but rather sought to deal with the United States after being recognized as a nuclear power, a status Washington has pledged not to grant.
他说金正恩并非将核武器视为谈判的筹码，而是要在朝鲜的核国家地位获得承认后与美国打交道——美国坚称不会承认朝鲜是核国家。
This year, North Korea has conducted two nuclear tests and launched more than 20 ballistic missiles, and it has openly vowed to develop the ability to hit the United States with a nuclear warhead.
朝鲜今年进行了两次核试验，并发射了逾20枚弹道导弹，它还公开宣布，要发展以核弹头打击美国的能力。
President-elect Donald J. Trump has indicated that he was open to allowing Japan and South Korea to manufacture their own nuclear weapons to deter North Korea, an idea that drew a withering response from the Obama administration, which said the idea flouted decades of nonproliferation policy.
美国候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)已经表示，他对允许日本和韩国自行制造核武器以震慑朝鲜持开放态度——奥巴马政府猛烈批评了这一观点，说这是罔顾几十年来的防扩散政策。
South Korea will hold a presidential election next year.
韩国将于明年选举总统。
Mr. Thae, a career diplomat, served in Denmark and Sweden before he was assigned to the North Korean Embassy in London about 10 years ago. In London, he was spotted delivering speeches at far-left events, including meetings of the British Communist Party, where he would speak passionately in defense of North Korea.
身为职业外交官的泰勇浩于10年前被派至朝鲜驻伦敦大使馆，那之前曾在丹麦和瑞典任职。在伦敦，人们曾看到他出席极左翼活动并发表演讲，包括在英国共产党(British Communist Party)的一些会议上充满感情地为朝鲜辩护。
On Tuesday, he spoke of frustration as a North Korean diplomat abroad.
周二，他谈及了作为一名被派驻海外的朝鲜外交官的失落之情。
He said that North Korea paid its ambassadors only $900 to $1,100 a month, making its diplomats desperate for an extra income through work outside the embassy. The diplomats live a communal life inside their embassy to save costs, he added.
他说朝鲜大使每月的工资只有900至1000美元，导致该国外交官极度渴望通过在大使馆之外做兼职来赚取额外的收入。他还表示，为了节省开支，他们在大使馆内过着集体生活。
But he said they enjoyed one luxury the elites back in the North could not: They had access to the internet and could read news from South Korea, including updates about the lives of North Korean defectors.
但他说，他们享受着朝鲜国内精英无法企及的一项奢侈待遇：可以上网，并浏览来自韩国的新闻，包括关于朝鲜叛逃者生活状况的最新报道。
Mr. Thae said that back in the North, the totalitarian regime was so paranoid about outside information affecting its people that it kept surveillance on diplomats who had returned home for fear they might spread outside news, even though DVDs smuggled in from China have made South Korean movies and soap operas increasingly popular in the North.
泰勇浩说，朝鲜的极权主义政权极度担心本国人民被外国信息蛊惑，以至于要对回国的外交官实施监控，因为害怕他们会散播来自外界的消息。不过，从中国走私过去的DVD已经让韩国电影和电视剧在朝鲜日益流行开来。
Mr. Thae himself was an avid fan of South Korean soap operas.
泰勇浩本人是韩剧的狂热粉丝。
South Korea has hailed his defection as a sign of loosening loyalty among the North Korean elite. The North called him “human scum” and said he had fled after embezzling state funds and sexually assaulting a minor.
韩国认为他的叛逃是朝鲜精英阶层忠诚度日益下降的标志。朝鲜称他为“败类”，说他是在贪污公款并性侵一名儿童后逃走的。
Mr. Thae denied these accusations on Tuesday and said his disillusionment with Mr. Kim had deepened after the execution of many officials, including the leader’s uncle Jang Song-thaek, in an attempt to tighten his control through a reign of terror.
泰勇浩于周二否认了这些指控，并表示，在金正恩企图通过恐怖统治加强其控制力，处死包括其姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)在内的多名官员以后，他对金正恩愈发感到幻灭。
The North Korean government requires its diplomats to leave some of their family members back home, holding them as hostages against potential defections. Mr. Thae said he was lucky because he could defect to the South with his wife and two children.
朝鲜政府会要求本国外交官把一些家人留在国内，并将这些家属扣作人质，防止其叛逃。泰勇浩说他很幸运，因为可以和妻子以及两个孩子一起叛逃到韩国。
North Korean diplomats are also required to monitor one another to thwart treason. But Mr. Thae said there were holes in the surveillance, although he declined to divulge details of how he had defected.
朝鲜外交官还被要求彼此监视，以挫败叛国企图。但泰勇浩表示，监视网中存在漏洞，但他拒绝透露关于自己如何叛逃的细节。
“It’s a human world, and it’s impossible to monitor someone constantly,” he said.
“这是人类世界，不可能持续不断地监视某个人，”他说。