SEOUL, South Korea — Barbed-wire steel gates on the heavily fortified border between North and South Korea swung open for the first time in two years Sunday, allowing in an advance team of officials from the North, led by one of its most celebrated singers, to help plan for next month’s Winter Olympics.
韩国首尔——周日，在重兵把守的韩朝边境上，带铁丝网的钢铁大门两年来首次打开，准许一个由朝鲜官员组成的先遣队入内。该先遣队由朝鲜的一位著名歌手率领，任务是参与为下月的冬季奥运会制定计划。
The visit by the seven-member North Korean delegation has been heralded as a thawing of tensions following a series of missile and nuclear tests by the North. The group will spend two days in South Korea to help prepare for cultural performances by North Korean singers, dancers and pop orchestra musicians during the Winter Olympics, which will be held in the South Korean mountain town of Pyeongchang.
在朝鲜的一系列导弹和核试验后，这支七人朝鲜代表团的来访被认为预示着紧张局势缓和。代表团将在韩国停留两天，参与筹备朝鲜歌手、舞蹈演员和流行乐团的演奏者在冬奥会期间的文化表演。本届冬奥会将在韩国山城平昌举行。
In South Korean media, it was the North Korean singer, Hyon Song Wol, who stole the show. Nicknamed the “girl on a steed” by South Koreans after her most popular song, Hyon was greeted with a media frenzy that South Korea usually reserves for one of its own K-pop stars.
在韩国媒体上，朝鲜歌手玄松月(Hyon Song-wol)出尽了风头。玄松月因为最受欢迎的一首歌曲而被韩国民众称作“骏马姑娘”，引发了媒体的疯狂报道。在韩国，媒体的这种狂热往往仅限于本国的韩流明星。
South Korean television crews tagged along, feeding live broadcasts, as a bus carrying Hyon’s delegation and a police escort sped down the inter-Korean highway linking the two nations, which was temporarily reopened for their visit.
为了此次访问，朝鲜和韩国暂时重新开放了一条连接两国的公路。一辆搭载着玄松月率领的代表团的大巴和警方的一支护卫车队在公路上疾驰，韩国的电视台工作人员一路紧跟，进行现场直播。
They arrived at the main railway station in Seoul, the South Korean capital, where they faced throngs of photojournalists. Passers-by and gawkers with smartphones also struggled to get a shot of Hyon, who rose to pre-eminence on the propaganda-heavy North Korean pop music scene with her No. 1 hit “A Girl in the Saddle of a Steed,” a song about a tireless, overachieving female factory worker.
到达韩国首都首尔主要的火车站时，他们面前出现了成群的摄影记者。携带智能手机的路人和小贩也费尽心思，想拍到玄松月的照片。在政治宣传色彩浓厚的朝鲜流行音乐界，玄松月凭借其排名第一的热门歌曲《骏马姑娘》(A Girl in the Saddle of a Steed)而声名大作。这首歌的主角是一个不知疲倦、超额完成任务的工厂女工。
Coverage of Hyon has not always been so fawning. Several years ago, South Korean media were rife with speculation that she had been machine-gunned to death at the orders of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un.
有关玄松月的报道并不都是奉承。几年前，韩国媒体普遍猜测，她已被朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)下令用机枪处决。
Dressed in a black coat and a fur neck wrap, Hyon looked stiffly at the crowd but later flashed thin smiles as South Korean officials whisked her onto a bullet train to Gangneung, an Olympic venue on the east coast where Hyon’s art troupe is scheduled to perform during the Games.
玄松月穿着黑色外套、围着皮毛围巾，在人群中显得有些僵硬。但后来，在韩国官员匆匆引领她登上一列开往江陵的子弹头列车时，她短暂地露出了浅浅的微笑。江陵位于韩国东海岸，是奥运会的举办地之一，玄松月领衔的乐团计划于奥运会期间在那里演出。
At the station in Gangneung, a crowd of townspeople turned out, clapping as the North Koreans emerged from the train.
在江陵，一群民众聚集在车站，并在朝鲜代表团成员从火车上下来时鼓掌欢迎。
After an overnight stay, the North Koreans will return to Seoul on Monday to inspect a concert hall there where her troupe will have another performance.
停留一晚后，他们将于周一返回首尔，检查那里的一个音乐厅。玄松月领衔的乐团还将在那里举行一场表演。
On Feb. 1, the North’s official Olympic delegation, including 22 athletes, will travel the same inter-Korean highway to take part in the Games, a move that many South Koreans welcomed for reducing tensions during the events. Hundreds of North Korean officials, cheerleaders and taekwondo demonstrators will follow suit later. The Winter Games begin in Pyeongchang on Feb. 9.
2月1日，包含22名运动员的朝鲜官方奥运代表团将乘车通过一条贯穿朝韩的高速公路前来参加奥运会，许多韩国人欢迎这一举措，认为它能缓解奥运会期间的紧张局势。数百名朝鲜官员、啦啦队员和跆拳道表演者随后也将前往韩国。平昌冬奥会将于2月9日开幕。
North and South Korea agreed to the North’s participation in a series of border talks during the past couple weeks, which raised hopes for a political thaw.
过去几周里，朝鲜和韩国同意朝鲜参加一系列边境会谈，这为政治解冻带来了希望。
The highway, built to connect Seoul to an industrial park in the North Korean city of Kaesong, was closed in early 2016, when the South shut down the park in response to the North’s nuclear weapons program and other provocations.
这条连接首尔和朝鲜开城工业园的高速公路在2016年初关闭。当时，作为对朝鲜核武器计划等挑衅行为的回应，韩国关闭了开城工业园。
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, who took office in May, has advocated dialogue, and seized upon the North’s Olympic participation as an opportunity to ease tensions and promote negotiations. However, his conservative critics warn that the North is just trying to use the Olympics to undermine international resolve to enforce sanctions against the increasingly isolated country.
去年5月上台的韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)主张对话，将朝鲜参加奥运会视为缓解紧张局势、促进谈判的机会。不过，保守派批评人士警告称，朝鲜只是试图利用奥运会削弱国际社会对这个日益孤立的国家实施制裁的决议。
On Saturday, the International Olympic Committee announced that although North Korea had missed the deadline for accepting an Olympic invitation, 22 of its athletes would be allowed to take part as wild-card entries. The two Koreas have also agreed to march together in the opening ceremony and to form a unified women’s ice hockey team, the first inter-Korean team ever fielded at the Olympics.
上周六，国际奥委会(International Olympic Committee)宣布，尽管朝鲜错过了接受奥运会邀请的最后期限，但它的22名运动员将被允许以外卡队资格参赛。朝韩两国还同意在开幕式上一同出场，还将联合组建一支女子冰球联队，这是奥运会史上第一支朝韩联队。
But Hyon’s troupe, made up of young North Korean women known for their beauty, is expected to steal the Olympic show among South Koreans, many of whom detest the North Korean regime but feel ethnic affinity for their northern neighbors.
不过，玄松月的剧团——它由以美貌著称的朝鲜年轻女子组成——有望在韩国人中抢走奥运比赛的风头。很多韩国人憎恶朝鲜政权，但对北方的邻居怀有民族感情。
Also Sunday, North Korea agreed to let an advance team of South Korean officials visit ski and tourist resorts on its eastern coast for three days beginning Tuesday, South Korean officials said. The South Korean delegation will inspect sites where the two Koreas agreed to launch a pre-Olympic cultural event and also train their skiers together.
韩国官员还表示，周日，朝鲜同意一个韩国官员先遣队从周二起对朝鲜东部沿海的滑雪和旅游胜地进行为期三天的访问。韩国代表团将视察多个地点，两国计划在那些地点共同举办一场奥运会前的文化活动，共同训练滑雪运动员。
The South Korean officials will travel via another closed highway that once linked the divided peninsula. The highway was used to take South Korean tourists to the North’s scenic Mount Kumgang until the program was shut down following the 2008 killing of a South Korean tourist by North Korean soldiers.
韩国官员将经由另一条曾连接两国、目前已被封闭的高速公路前往朝鲜。这条高速公路曾被用于将韩国游客运往朝鲜旅游胜地金刚山，直到2008年一名韩国游客被朝鲜士兵杀害后，该旅游项目遭到关闭。
North Korea has insisted that the South reopen the Kaesong industrial complex and the Mount Kumgang tourism program, both of which had been important sources of cash for its regime. But Moon said that it would be difficult to reopen them unless the North moved toward denuclearization.
朝鲜坚持要求韩国重新开放开城工业园和金刚山旅游项目，这两个项目都曾是朝鲜政权的重要资金来源。但文在寅表示，除非朝鲜朝着无核化方向努力，否则重新开放很难实现。