SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea granted two United States news organizations interviews with three incarcerated Americans on Monday, with each prisoner apologizing for violating its laws and beseeching Washington to send a high-level emissary to negotiate their release.
韩国首尔——周一，朝鲜允许两家美国新闻机构采访三名被监禁的美国人，三人都为违反朝鲜法律道歉，恳求华盛顿方面派一名高层特使，与朝鲜就释放他们的事宜展开谈判。
The three had been interviewed before in orchestrated televised appearances in which they expressed contrition and asked the United States for help. But Monday was the first time the North Korean authorities permitted the two American news organizations, CNN and The Associated Press, to speak to all three in the same location.
三人以前就曾在精心安排的电视节目中亮相接受采访，表达忏悔之情，并寻求美国的帮助。但这是朝鲜当局第一次允许两家美国新闻媒体CNN和美联社(The Associated Press)在同一地点采访这三名在押的美国人。
The choreography of the interviews seemed to make increasingly clear that North Korea wanted to use the three Americans as bargaining leverage to pressure Washington to engage the country in dialogue. The United States, which has no diplomatic relations with North Korea, has led an effort to increasingly isolate the country over its nuclear and ballistic missile activities.
安排采访的举措似乎愈发清晰地说明，朝鲜希望将这三名美国人作为筹码，迫使华盛顿方面与朝鲜开展对话。美国与朝鲜没有建立外交关系，鉴于朝鲜的核活动及弹道导弹活动，美国带头孤立朝鲜，力度不断加强。
CNN and The A.P. said the interviews were conducted individually in different rooms. All said they were treated fairly by the North Korean authorities and had been allowed to contact their families. But they spoke while North Korean officials were present, suggesting they had been coached.
CNN和美联社表示，它们分别在不同的房间进行采访。三人都表示，他们受到朝鲜当局的公平对待，并获准与家人联系。但他们讲话时有朝鲜官员在场，显示他们受过指导。
“I’ve been going back and forth from hospital to the labor camp for the last year and a half,” the longest-held prisoner, Kenneth Bae, told CNN, adding that he was working eight hours a day, six days a week at a labor camp.
关押时间最长的囚犯肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)接受CNN采访时说，“在过去一年半的时间里，我一直在医院与劳改营之间往返。”他还表示，他在劳改营每天工作八小时，每周工作六天。
Mr. Bae, 46, a Christian missionary, was arrested after having arrived in the North in late 2012. He was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for the “anti-state” crime of trying to build an undercover proselytizing network within the North with the aim of toppling its government.
46岁的肯尼斯·裴是一名基督教传教士，他在2012年末到达朝鲜后被逮捕。他最终以“反国家”的罪名被判处15年劳役，罪名是试图在朝鲜建立秘密的传教网络，借以推翻朝鲜政府。
Mr. Bae complained in the interview of failing health, including diabetes, backaches and high blood pressure, maladies that have long afflicted him.
肯尼斯·裴在采访中诉苦，称自己的健康状况每况愈下，身患糖尿病、背痛、高血压，他长期受到这些病痛的折磨。
His sister, Terri Chung, emailed a statement to news organizations after she watched the CNN interview, saying that Mr. Bae was normally outgoing and cheerful, “larger than life — but I could not see that man today.”
他的姐姐特里·郑(Terri Chung)在看到CNN的采访后通过电子邮件向新闻媒体发表声明称，肯尼斯·裴通常都很开朗、乐观，“自信满满——但我今天看到的他不是这样的。”
It was clear, she said, that Mr. Bae’s back had been hurting him as he sought to sit for the interview. “Working eight hours a day of hard labor — his sentence — is the last thing his body needs,” Ms. Chung said. She implored North Korea: “Please have mercy. It is in your power to release my brother.”
她说，很明显，肯尼斯·裴在坚持坐着接受采访时背部非常疼。特里·郑说，“他被判刑一天做八个小时的苦工，他的身体根本吃不消。”她恳求朝鲜：“请发发慈悲。释放我弟弟的权力掌握在你们手中。”
The others, Jeffrey Edward Fowle, and Mathew Todd Miller, reiterated assertions made in earlier interviews that they expected to face trial soon. They said they still did not know what specific charges they faced, although they both said they had signed statements admitting their crimes.
另外两人——杰弗里·爱德华·福尔(Jeffrey Edward Fowle)和马修·托德·米勒(Mathew Todd Miller)——则重申了先前接受采访时的说法，即预计自己将很快受审。他们说，还不知道自己面临哪些具体指控，不过两人都表示，已经签署了承认罪状的供词。
Mr. Fowle, 56, an Ohio municipal worker, entered North Korea in April on a tourist visa and was arrested after he left a Bible behind in a hotel. The authorities may have interpreted that act as Christian proselytizing, which is deemed a crime of trying to undermine North Korea’s political system.
现年56岁的福尔是俄亥俄州的市政工作者，今年4月持旅游签证进入朝鲜，遭到拘捕前，他曾在酒店里留下了一本《圣经》。朝鲜政府可能将此举解读成了基督教的传教行为，而这种行为会被视作破坏朝鲜政治制度的罪行。
“Within a month I could be sharing a jail cell with Ken Bae,” Mr. Fowle told The A.P.
“一个月内，我可能就和肯尼斯·裴关在同一间牢房里了，”福尔对美联社说。
He confirmed that he had been allowed to communicate with his wife and three children, ages 9, 10 and 12, who live in Miamisburg, Ohio, an Akron suburb, but that he had not spoken with them for three weeks.
福尔证实，自己可以与妻子及三个孩子联系，但他们已经三周没通话了。肯尼斯·裴的妻儿目前居住在俄亥俄州阿克伦郊外的迈阿密斯堡。三个孩子分别为9岁、10岁和12岁。
“I’m desperate to get back to them,” he said.
“我太想回到他们身边了，”福尔说。
Mr. Bae had been permitted previously to speak to outside media, including a pro-North Korean newspaper in Japan, to make appeals for the United States to send a high-level envoy to Pyongyang. In interviews with an A.P. television news crew a month ago, both Mr. Fowle and Mr. Miller made similar appeals.
肯尼斯·裴此前曾被允许接触外部媒体，包括日本一家亲朝鲜的报纸，呼吁美国派遣高级使节到平壤。一个月前接受美联社电视新闻记者的采访时，福尔和米勒也发出了类似的呼吁。
Mr. Miller, 24, entered North Korea in April. But according to the North, he shredded his tourist visa upon arrival at the airport and demanded asylum. He was arrested for unruly behavior. In his interviews with The A.P. and CNN, he did not discuss whether he had sought to defect to North Korea.
现年24岁的米勒是今年4月进入朝鲜的。但根据朝鲜的说法，他抵达机场后就撕毁了自己的旅游签证，并要求避难。他因为行为失当而遭到拘捕。在接受美联社和CNN采访时，他没有谈到自己是否寻求过叛逃到朝鲜。
He expressed frustration to CNN, saying that “there’s been no movement from my government.”
他对CNN表达了失望之情：“我的政府没有采取行动。”