SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, is “not feeling well,” a state-run television station reported this week, in a rare revelation about his health.
韩国首尔——朝鲜国家电视台本周报道，该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)“身体不适”。这是朝鲜媒体对他的健康状况的罕见披露。
In a documentary broadcast on Thursday, the North’s Central TV showed Mr. Kim, who has not been seen in public in recent weeks, walking with a limp while visiting a factory in Nampo, a provincial town southwest of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, last month. A narrator intoned about the tireless work of Mr. Kim, “our marshal, who lights the path of leadership for the people like a flame, although he was not feeling well.”
在周四播放的纪录片中，朝鲜中央电视台展示了最近几周未公开露面的金正恩上个月在视察南浦一家工厂时行走不便的画面。南浦位于朝鲜首都平壤的西南方向，是一座省级市。解说员用庄重的语气称颂了金正恩不知疲倦地工作，“我们的元帅，尽管身体不适，仍然像火焰一样照亮着领导人民的道路。”
Central TV, a key channel of government propaganda, mentioned Mr. Kim’s physical trouble in the context of what it called his selfless dedication to his people. Still, it was so rare for the news media in North Korea to discuss the condition of the supreme leader that Thursday’s report was widely picked up by the South Korean media on Friday.
朝鲜中央电视台是平壤政府的主要宣传工具。它在提到金正恩的身体问题的语境是，宣称这体现了他对人民的无私奉献。然而，鉴于朝鲜媒体极少讨论最高国家领导人的身体状况，韩国媒体周五对这则头一天的消息进行了广泛传播。
North Korea’s tightly controlled media never mentioned the health conditions of Mr. Kim’s grandfather and father, who ruled before him and suffered various ailments, like diabetes. Video footage and photos never revealed a large cyst that Mr. Kim’s paternal grandfather, Kim Il-sung, developed on the back of his head in his later years.
受到严格控制的朝鲜媒体从未提及金正恩的祖父及父亲的健康状况。在金正恩之前统治朝鲜的他的父亲，生前患过糖尿病等多种疫病。金正恩的祖父金日成(Kim Il-sung)在晚年时期，后脑勺上曾长了一个大囊肿，但它从未体现在视频或照片中。
Mr. Kim, who is widely believed to be about 30 although his government has never revealed his age, assumed the top leadership position after his father, Kim Jong-il, died of heart failure in 2011. Mr. Kim has since demonstrated a youthful leadership style by visiting farms, factories and military units more often than his father did. He appears to be bolder than his forebears in acknowledging problems. In a departure from the habitually sanitized description of state affairs, his country’s news media once quoted him as criticizing the poor upkeep of a public park and showed him pulling up weeds there.
外界广泛认为金正恩现年大概30岁，虽然朝鲜政府从未披露他的真实年龄。2011年，在父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)因为心脏衰竭去世后，金正恩便开始接任最高领导人的职位。从那时起，金正恩展现出一种年轻的领导风格，他视察农场、工厂和军队的频率比父亲更高。与前辈相比，他在承认问题方面也表现得更加大胆。与过去对国家事务一笔带过的做法不同，他当政以来，朝鲜媒体曾引述他对某座公园维护不周的批评，还展示了他在园内拔草的情景。
But his health became a topic of speculation among outside analysts in July, after he was seen limping with his right leg in North Korean television footage. He was again shown walking with a limp this month, this time with his left leg. The images prompted South Korean analysts to speculate that he was suffering from gout or arthritis, in addition to his obesity.
但在今年7月，也就是朝鲜电视台播出金正恩右腿行走不便的画面后，外界纷纷猜测他的健康状况。电视台在本月再次播出了他跛行的镜头，这次是左腿。这些画面促使韩国分析人士猜测，除了肥胖症外，金正恩还患有痛风或关节炎。
Mr. Kim was already chubby when he took over after his father’s death. But according to video footage and photographs in the North Korean media, he appears to have gained weight since then.
在父亲过世后接管政权时，金正恩已经比较肥胖。不过，朝鲜媒体公布的视频及照片显示，此后他的体重似乎又有所增加。
The documentary was shown before a prerecorded broadcast of a session of the legislative Supreme People’s Assembly, which had met earlier on Thursday. Mr. Kim did not attend the meeting, where some of his top aides were appointed to seats on his powerful National Defense Commission. It was the first time that Mr. Kim, a member of the assembly, had missed a parliamentary meeting since taking power.
朝鲜立法机构最高人民会议(Supreme People's Assembly)于周四早些时候举行会议。在播放有关该会议的预先录制的节目前，朝鲜电视台播出了前述纪录片。此次会议任命了金正恩的一些高级助手填补权力强大的国防委员会(National Defense Commission)的职位，但他本人并没有参会。金正恩是朝鲜最高人民会议成员，这是他执政以来首次缺席该机构的会议。
The broadcast of the documentary — with its propagandistic spin on Mr. Kim’s health — may have been timed to counter growing speculation at home and abroad about his health, according to the South Korean news media.
韩国新闻媒体认为，此时播放带有关于金正恩健康状况的导向性宣传的纪录片，可能是设计好的时机，为的是反击国内外越来越多的有关其健康状况的猜测。
North Korean TV and newspapers have not reported his public activities since Sept. 3, when Mr. Kim was said to have watched a musical performance.
据称，金正恩于9月3日观看了一场音乐表演。自那以后，朝鲜电视台及报纸没有进行有关金正恩公开活动的任何报道。
It is not unusual for senior North Korean leaders to disappear from public view for weeks at a stretch. Still, the inner workings of the top leadership in Pyongyang have been cloaked in such secrecy that the outside world was in the dark about the death of Mr. Kim’s father in 2011 until the North Korean media announced it two days later.
朝鲜高层领导人连续数周没有出现在公众视野中的情况并不罕见。虽说如此，平壤最高领导层的内部运作非常隐秘，以致于2011年，外界并不知道金正恩的父亲已经过世，直到朝鲜媒体在两天后宣布消息。