SEOUL, South Korea — Jong-un has always been a common Korean name for both men and women. But now, in North Korea, there is only one person who can use it: the country’s supreme leader, Kim Jong-un.
韩国首尔——一直以来，“正恩”都是朝鲜半岛男女通用的常见名字。但如今在朝鲜，只有一个人有权用这个名字了：朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)。
South Korean government officials said on Wednesday that North Korea had banned parents from giving their newborns the same name as the top leader. People who already have the name have been ordered to register with new ones.
据韩国政府官员称，朝鲜已禁止父母给新生儿取和最高领袖一样的名字。已经重名的人被要求重新登记新名字。
South Korean officials have long suspected that such a policy was in force in North Korea after Mr. Kim was officially introduced as heir to his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2010. In the North, state propagandists treat Kim Jong-un; his father; and his grandfather, Kim Il-sung, the North’s founder, as godlike figures. During the rule of the father and of the grandfather, the government decreed that no other North Korean should have the name Jong-il or Il-sung.
长期以来，韩国官员一直怀疑，在2010年金正恩被正式宣布为其父金正日(Kim Jong-il)的接班人之后，这项政策就开始在朝鲜实施了。朝鲜国家宣传机构把金正恩、他的父亲、以及祖父开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)视作神一样的人物。在金正恩的父亲及祖父在位时，政府规定任何其他朝鲜人不得使用“正日”或“日成”作为名字。
The South Korean national broadcaster KBS reported on Tuesday on what it called an internal North Korean government document, dated Jan. 5, 2011, in which officials of the governing Workers’ Party and of internal security agencies were instructed to see that North Koreans named Jong-un adopted new names.
韩国国家电视台KBS周二根据一份日期为2011年1月5日的所谓朝鲜政府内部文件报道，朝鲜执政的劳动党官员和内部安全机构官员被命令监督名为正恩的朝鲜人是否改了新名字。
“It’s true that in North Korea, they now allow only one Jong-un,” said a South Korean government official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing agency rules.
一位因机构规定不能透露姓名的韩国政府官员表示：“确实，现在朝鲜只允许有一个正恩。”
The totalitarian North has taken many steps to keep its ruling family among the modern world’s enduring personality cults. Homes and offices must keep portraits of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il on their walls. Statues of the men are landmarks in all major cities. North Koreans wear lapel pins bearing the images of the two Kims. The country celebrates their birthdays as national holidays. And cliffs on scenic mountainsides and gates to farms and factories all bear slogans pledging loyalty to the Kim family.
奉行极权主义的朝鲜采取了相当多措施，在当代社会维持对其最高家族的个人崇拜。家庭和办公室必须在墙上悬挂金日成和金正日的肖像。在所有主要城市，这两位领袖的雕像都是当地地标。朝鲜人的衣领上别有印着这两位金姓领导人肖像的徽章。他们的生日是全国性的节日。从风景秀丽的山坡悬崖到院落大门，从农场到工厂，处处都可以看到发誓向金氏家族效忠的标语。