SEOUL, South Korea — In a surprise move that could help ease tensions on the Korean Peninsula, North Korea said Thursday that it would release six South Koreans it has been holding in detention, South Korean officials said.
韩国首尔——韩国官员表示，朝鲜周四宣布，将遣送扣押的六名韩国人回国。这一意外之举可能有助于缓解朝鲜半岛的紧张局势。
The Red Cross of North Korea told its South Korean counterpart that the six would be returned to the South on Friday at the border village of Panmunjom, the South Korean Unification Ministry said in a statement.
韩国统一部发表声明称，朝鲜红十字会向韩国红十字会通报，周五将通过朝韩边境的板门店遣送六人回国。
It was unclear who the detainees were. The ministry said that they were South Korean men between the ages of 27 and 67, but that it was unclear how long they had been in the North or how they had gotten there.
这些在押人员的身份尚不明朗。统一部称，他们均为韩国男性，年龄在27岁到67岁之间，不过既不清楚他们在朝鲜逗留的时长，也不清楚他们抵达那里的方式。
Pyongyang said in February 2010 that it was holding four South Koreans for illegal entry, but it never responded to Seoul’s request that they be identified and released. In June of this year, the North said it was holding “several” South Koreans for entering the country illegally, but it did not elaborate.
2010年2月，平壤方面宣布，扣押了四名非法闯入的韩国人。不过，面对韩国政府提出的核实身份及放人要求，朝鲜从未回应。今年6月，朝鲜表示该国扣押了“数名”非法入境的韩国人，但也语焉不详。
Thousands of South Koreans, most of them fishermen, are said to have been taken to the North in the decades since the Korean War; more than 500 have not returned, though Pyongyang denies holding them against their will.
朝鲜战争后的几十年里，据说有数千名韩国人被带往朝鲜，其中多数是渔民；超过500人未能返回，不过平壤方面否认他们遭到了强行扣押。
South Korea welcomed the announcement on Thursday. “Although it is belated, we consider it a good thing that the North has decided to take this humanitarian measure,” the Unification Ministry said. “We will get custody of our six citizens, verify their identities and find out how and why they entered the North.”
周四，韩国对朝鲜的声明表示了欢迎。“虽然来得有些晚，但朝鲜现在决定从人道主义的角度采取措施，这令人欣慰，”统一部称。“我方将接手这六名韩国公民、确认他们的身份并调查他们进入韩国的方式与原因。”
In recent weeks, North Korea has alternated between harsh verbal attacks and conciliatory gestures. In mid-September, streams of South Korean vehicles began crossing into the North as operations resumed at a jointly run industrial park in the North Korean border town of Kaesong. The complex had been idle since April, when the North withdrew all of its workers amid tensions from its most recent nuclear test.
最近几周，朝鲜在严厉的言语攻击与和解性姿态之间来回摇摆。9月中旬，位于朝韩边境开城的联合工业园重新开放，韩国的一队队车流开始跨境进入朝鲜。这座工业园4月份后一直处于停工状态，因为朝鲜最近的一次核试验导致局势紧张，朝方撤出了全部工人。
But soon after the Kaesong complex reopened, North Korea unilaterally postponed the resumption of an emotionally charged humanitarian program under which members of families divided by the Korean War have been allowed to hold reunions. The North said it postponed the reunion because of the “reckless and vicious confrontational racket” of the conservative government of Park Geun-hye, the South Korean president.
然而，开城工业园重启后不久，朝鲜就单方面推迟恢复一项牵动人心的人道主义项目。该项目是为了让朝鲜战争中离散的朝韩家属重聚。朝方宣称，之所以推迟团聚项目，是因为韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的保守政府“穷凶极恶的同族对抗活动”。
This month, North Korea lashed out again, advising Ms. Park to “watch her mouth” and threatening to “rain fire” on the South, after South Korean leaders said the North’s policy of maintaining its nuclear arms program while rebuilding its economy would never work. Also this month, the North put its military on high alert, warning the United States of “disastrous consequences” for moving warships, including an aircraft carrier, into a South Korean port for a military exercise.
这个月，韩国领导人称，朝鲜的政策是想在保住核武计划的同时重建经济，这永远行不通。之后，朝鲜再次口出恶言，要求朴槿惠“谨言慎行”，并威胁要对韩国进行“狠狠地打击”。还是在本月，朝鲜将其军队置于高度戒备状态，警告美国将包括一艘航母在内的多艘战舰派往韩国港口进行军演的行为是条“悲惨死路”。
But the North has also sent less hostile signals. On Thursday, South Korean officials said Pyongyang had agreed to allow 24 South Korean lawmakers and their aides to visit the Kaesong complex next Wednesday. The lawmakers will meet with South Korean factory managers there but will not hold talks with North Korean officials, the officials said.
但是，朝鲜也发出了敌意不那么强烈的信号。本周四，韩国官员称，平壤同意24名韩国国会议员及其助理下周三访问开城工业园。韩国官方还表示，议员代表团将会见当地的韩国工厂管理人员，但不会与朝鲜官员会谈。
North Korea is eager to expand the Kaesong complex, where its low-paid workers make textiles, shoes and other labor-intensive goods in South Korean-owned factories. The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has vowed to attract more foreign investment and to improve his people’s living standards.
目前，朝鲜急于扩大开城工业园。园内工厂由韩国人所有，朝鲜的廉价劳动力在此生产纺织品和鞋类等劳动密集型商品。朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)已发誓，要吸引更多的外国投资并改善朝鲜民众的生活水平。
But the South has remained skeptical of the expansion until the two Koreas can agree on measures to prevent another politically motivated shutdown, like allowing non-Korean investment in the complex. Those negotiations have advanced fitfully, however; a briefing for potential investors from other countries was canceled this month, with continuing inter-Korean tensions cited as the reason.
不过，韩国对扩大之事心存疑虑，除非双方能达成一致，采取措施来防止再次因政治原因关停工业园，比如允许半岛之外的投资进入开城。可是，此类磋商时断时续。本应举行的别国投资通报会在本月被取消，理由是朝韩之间持续不断的紧张情况。