SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea on Thursday rejected South Korea’s proposal to hold Red Cross talks to discuss arranging more family reunions families separated by the Korean War to meet long-lost relatives members for the first time in six decades.
韩国首尔——周四，朝鲜拒绝了韩国有关举行红十字会(Red Cross)会谈的提议，该会谈的目的是讨论安排更多的朝鲜战争离散家庭团聚，让他们60年来首次见到长期失散的亲属。
Late last month, the two Koreas held such reunions for the first time in three years, raising hopes for improved ties on the divided Korean Peninsula. But the North has raised tensions again by testing several short-range ballistic missiles and rockets since last Thursday.
上月晚些时候，朝韩两国三年来首次举行此类家庭团聚活动，为分裂的朝鲜半岛关系转暖带来了希望。然而，朝鲜从上周四开始试射了几枚短程弹道导弹和火箭弹，再次加剧了紧张气氛。
In the latest test, North Korea launched four projectiles from its newly developed multiple-rocket launcher on Tuesday, with one flying in the area of a passenger plane at roughly the same time.
在本周二的最新一轮试射中，朝鲜用新研发的多管火箭发射器发射了四枚火箭弹。其中一枚火箭弹飞入了一架客机的飞行区域，两者飞过该区域的时间几乎相同。
The plane, a China Southern Airlines jet with 220 passengers on board, was flying from Tokyo to the Chinese city of Shenyang when it passed through the same sky off the east coast of North Korea that the rockets traveled, military officials here said. The plane flew at an altitude of 33,000 feet when it crossed the trajectory of one of the rockets that had flown by several minutes earlier,
韩国官员称，当时，中国南方航空公司一架载有220名乘客的客机正在从东京飞往中国沈阳，途中经过了朝鲜东海岸上空的一片区域，火箭弹的飞行轨道也经过该区域。飞机在3.3万英尺（10065米）的高空飞行时，穿越了其中一枚火箭弹的飞行轨道，那枚火箭弹在几分钟前刚刚飞过。
The North’s failure to notify international aviation personnel of its tests in advance was a “provocation that violated the norms of international air traffic and posed a serious threat to the safety of civilians,” Kim Min-seok, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry in Seoul, said on Wednesday.
周三，国防部发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)表示，朝鲜没有提前通知国际航空人员有关试射计划的消息，这是“一种挑衅行为，违背了国际空中交通惯例，给平民的安全造成了严重威胁。”
North Korea dismissed the criticism, calling its missile and rocket tests “defensive actions” and boasting that its projectiles hit targets with precision while posing no threat to international air traffic.
朝鲜驳斥了这种指责，称本国的导弹和火箭测试是“防御行动”，并吹嘘自己的导弹和火箭弹精准地击中了目标，同时也没有对国际航空运输构成威胁。
Beijing, North Korea’s last remaining major ally, has not yet reacted to the incident.
朝鲜仅存的主要盟友中国尚未对此次事件作出回应。
On Thursday, North Korea told the South that the “circumstance and mood” were not right to discuss further family reunions, in an apparent reference to the joint military exercises the United States and South Korea have been conducting since Feb. 24. The North’s missile and rocket tests were seen as a show of force in the face of the drills, which Pyongyang has condemned as a rehearsal for an invasion of the north.
周四，朝鲜通知韩国，此时的“环境与氛围”不适合讨论进一步的家属团聚活动，此语明显是指美国和韩国从2月24日开始举行的联合军演。朝鲜斥责美韩军演是入侵朝鲜的预演，人们认为其导弹和火箭测试是针对美韩军演展现自身军力的行动。
After last month’s family reunions, South Korea suggested that more reunions be held so that aging Koreans can meet their relatives before they die. Such reunions would help ease relations between the two Koreas, the South’s president, Park Geun-hye, said in a speech last Saturday.
上个月举行离散家属团聚活动后，韩国建议举行更多的团聚活动，以便让日渐老迈的两国亲人在去世之前见上面。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在上周六的一次讲话中说，此类团聚活动有助于缓和朝韩之间的关系。