North Korea has displayed its cyberattack capabilities and advances toward making nuclear warheads, the country’s adversaries say. Now, the North appears to have shown progress in fitting submarines with missile launchers.
与朝鲜敌对的国家称，朝鲜已经展示了他们的网络攻击能力，而且正在推动核弹头的制造。如今，朝鲜似乎已经展示出他们在潜艇上安装导弹发射器方面取得进展。
A report posted Thursday on the website of 38north, a prominent research group that focuses on North Korea, said commercial satellite imagery of a North Korean submarine, taken less than a month ago, indicates the vessel may have one or two vertical launching tubes for either ballistic or cruise missiles.
周三，关注朝鲜的知名研究机构38north在其网站上发表报告称，商用卫星在不到一个月前拍摄到的朝鲜潜艇图像显示，潜艇上或许有一或两个用于发射弹道导弹和巡航导弹的垂直发射管。
The submarine, first seen last July, could be an experimental test bed for underwater missile launching, which would be harder to detect than land-based launchers, the report said. It was written by Joseph S. Bermudez Jr., an arms expert and authority on North Korea’s defense capabilities.
该报告称，这艘于去年7月首次被发现的潜艇可能是水下导弹发射的测试实验台，与陆基发射器相比，这种发射台更难探测。报告的作者是武器专家、朝鲜国防能力方面的权威小约瑟夫·S·贝穆德斯(Joseph S. Bermudez Jr)。
Mr. Bermudez cautioned, as have other Western defense experts, that North Korea is not believed to currently have the ability to launch missiles from submarines.
像其他西方防御专家一样，贝穆德斯提醒称，朝鲜据信尚未掌握利用潜艇发射导弹的能力。
“Moreover, an effort by Pyongyang to develop an operational, missile-carrying submarine would be an expensive and time-consuming endeavor with no guarantee of success,” Mr. Bermudez wrote in the report.
贝穆德斯在报告中写道，“除此之外，平壤方面研发携带导弹的作战潜艇的尝试将是一项既费钱又费时的工作，而且不一定能成功。”
Nonetheless, he wrote, “North Korea’s development of a submarine-launched missile capability would eventually expand Pyongyang’s threat to South Korea, Japan and U.S. bases in East Asia, also complicating regional missile defense planning, deployment and operations.”
他写道，尽管如此，“朝鲜在潜射导弹能力方面的发展最终会加大平壤对韩国、日本以及东亚的美国基地的威胁，也会扰乱地区导弹防御计划、部署及行动。”
Reports of North Korea’s apparent quest to develop a missile-launching submarine are not new. Mr. Bermudez said last year that the North appeared to have built a ground-based test area at its Sinpo South shipyard on the east coast to research and develop single-stage, liquid-propellant missiles fired from a submarine.
朝鲜研发能够发射导弹的潜艇这个显而易见的意图，此前已经有报告涉及。贝穆德斯表示，朝鲜去年似乎在东海岸的新浦南部造船厂设立了陆基试验场，研发单级液体推进的潜射导弹。
A report in the South Korean press last November quoted unidentified military and government sources as saying the North had modified a Russian-built diesel-powered submarine to make it capable of firing a single-stage missile with a range of about 880 miles. But the report said the North had not yet developed the technology needed for the missiles.
韩国媒体去年11月发表报道，援引未透露姓名的军队及政府消息人士的话称，朝鲜改造了一艘俄制柴油动力潜艇，以便使其能够发射一枚射程达到800英里（约合1417公里）的单级导弹。但该报道称，朝鲜尚未开发制造导弹所需的技术。
Mr. Bermudez’s report on Thursday included previously unseen satellite images, dated in mid-December, that showed an opening in a North Korean submarine’s conning tower that had been obscured in images taken earlier of the same vessel.
贝穆德斯周四公布的该报告包含此前未公布的卫星图像，它们的拍摄日期是去年12月中旬。图像显示的是一艘朝鲜潜艇未经遮掩的潜望台。在早前拍摄的这艘潜艇的图像中，潜望台被遮住了。
If South Korean reports of North Korea’s submarine capabilities are accurate, Mr. Bermudez wrote, “the new imagery suggests the possibility of 1-2 small vertical missile launch tubes.”
贝穆德斯写道，如果韩国对朝鲜潜艇能力的报道是准确的，“新图像表明该潜艇可能配备了一到两个小型垂直导弹发射管”。
Mr. Bermudez’s report, which coincided with the 32nd birthday of Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, was the latest in a series of indications that Mr. Kim is ramping up his country’s military capabilities despite international sanctions and ostracism.
贝穆德斯的报告出炉之时，正好是朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的32岁生日。一系列迹象表明金正恩正在不顾国际社会的制裁和排斥，增强朝鲜军事实力，该报告是目前最新的一个表现。
On Tuesday, South Korea’s Defense Ministry said the North appeared to have made a “significant” advance toward perfecting a nuclear warhead small enough to fit on a long-range missile that could reach the American West Coast. The ministry also suggested the North possessed a missile that could fly that far.
周二，韩国国防部称，朝鲜似乎已在完善小型核弹头方面取得的“重大”进展，这类小型核弹头可以装载在能够攻击到美国西海岸的远程导弹上。韩国国防部还表示，朝鲜已拥有能够飞那么远的导弹。
American officials also have said, as recently as Wednesday, that they believe North Korean hackers were responsible for a series of destructive cyberattacks in November on Sony Pictures, the Hollywood studio responsible for a comedy about the fictional assassination of Mr. Kim.
就在周三，美国官员还表示朝鲜黑客应对好莱坞电影公司索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)遭受的一系列毁灭性网络攻击负责。该公司制作了一部有关刺杀金正恩的虚构喜剧。