SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean soldiers sneaked across the heavily guarded border with South Korea and planted land mines near one of the South’s military guard posts, and two southern soldiers were maimed after stepping on them, the South Korean Defense Ministry said on Monday.
韩国首尔——韩国国防部周一表示，朝鲜士兵偷偷越过有重兵把守的两国边境，在韩国军方一处岗哨附近埋放地雷。两名踩到地雷的韩国士兵因此致残。
The two South Koreans, both staff sergeants, triggered the mines last Tuesday just outside their post, within the South Korean half of the 2.5-mile-wide Demilitarized Zone, a buffer separating the two Korean armies.
受伤的两名韩国士兵均为下士。上周二，他们就是在自己的岗哨外踩爆的地雷。该哨所位于2.5英里（约合4公里）宽的非军事区(Demilitarized Zone)的韩国一侧。非军事区是一个缓冲地带，将朝韩两国的军队分隔开来。
One lost both legs in the first blast, involving two mines. The other soldier lost one leg in a second explosion as he tried to help his wounded colleague to safety, the ministry said.
第一次是两枚地雷爆炸，导致其中一人失去了双腿。国防部称，另一名士兵在第二次爆炸中失去了一条腿。当时，他正试图帮助受伤的同伴转移到安全地带。
“This is a clear provocation by the North Korean military,” said Kim Min-seok, a spokesman for the South Korean military. “We swear a severe retaliation.”
“这显然是朝鲜军方的挑衅，”韩国军方发言人金珉奭(Kim Min-seok)说。“我们发誓会进行严厉的报复。”
Investigations showed that the mines were planted by North Korean soldiers to target troops from the South, Maj. Gen. Koo Hong-mo said at a news briefing. They were typical land mines from the North that used wooden boxes, he said.
邱洪谋（Koo Hong-mo，音）少将在新闻发布会上表示，调查显示，地雷是朝鲜士兵埋放的，攻击目标是韩国士兵。他说，它们是典型的朝鲜地雷，用了木盒子。
The mines were found just outside the South Korean guard post, which is 1,440 feet south of the military demarcation line, the official border that bisects the DMZ. They exploded as the soldiers opened the gate of a barbed-wire fence to begin a routine morning patrol, said Brig. Gen. Ahn Young-ho, a military investigator.
发现地雷的地方就在韩国岗哨外。该哨所位于军事分界线以南1440英尺（约合440米）的地方。军事分界线将非军事区一分为二，是两国的官方界线。军方调查人员安永浩（Ahn Young-ho，音）准将称，地雷是两名士兵打开带铁丝网的围栏大门，准备开始例行的早间巡逻时爆炸的。
The explosions on Tuesday were the first of their kind in 48 years, South Korean officials said.
韩国官员称，周二发生的爆炸是48年来的首次此类事件。
During and after the Korean War, both Koreas planted hundreds of thousands of mines in and near each side of the DMZ to thwart infiltrators.
在朝鲜战争期间和终战后，两国都在非军事区属于自己的那一半及其附近埋了数十万枚地雷，以防范潜入者。
Hundreds of South Korean villagers near the border have been injured or killed after stepping on or picking up stray mines.
在两国边界附近，已有数百名韩国村民因为踩到地雷或捡到散落的地雷而受伤或身亡。
The blasts last Tuesday, which took place near Paju, a front-line town north of Seoul, were especially shocking because South Korean officials said that infiltrators from the North had come within striking distance of a South Korean guard post and had retreated, undetected, after planting three mines on both sides of a barbed-wire fence protecting the post.
上周二的爆炸发生在首尔以北的前线城市坡州附近。爆炸尤其令人震惊的原因是，韩国官员称，来自朝鲜的潜入者来到了距离韩国哨所近得惊人的位置，并在保护岗哨的铁丝网两侧埋了三枚地雷，又神不知鬼不觉地撤了回去。
General Koo said that the North Koreans most likely planted the mines between July 22, when South Korean guards last used the gate, and last Tuesday, when the soldiers were wounded.
邱洪谋称，朝鲜极有可能是在韩国上一次使用那道门，即7月22日，和上周二两名士兵受伤这两个时间点之间埋放的地雷。
Officials here said that the last incidents in which South Korean troops had been killed or wounded by similarly planted North Korean mines inside the DMZ took place in 1967.
这里的官员称，非军事区内上一次发生朝鲜地雷炸伤或炸死韩国士兵的事件，是在1967年。那些地雷的埋放方式与这一次类似。
“For the North, this is a low-cost provocation that creates a big psychological impact on the South,” said Kim Yong-hyun, a North Korea expert at Dongguk University in Seoul. “Those North Korean wooden box land mines usually blow away legs only, not always killing their victims.”
“对朝鲜来说，这是一种低成本的挑衅，会给韩国造成巨大的心理冲击，”首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)朝鲜问题专家金榕炫(Kim Yong-hyun)说。“朝鲜的这些木盒地雷通常只能把腿炸掉，不一定会致人死亡。”
Mr. Kim said that the incident was unlikely to lead to an armed skirmish on the tense border but that it would probably harden the South’s stance on the North and hamper any short-term efforts to improve ties.
金榕炫称，此次事件不太可能导致局势紧张的边境地带爆发武装冲突，但可能会使韩国在朝鲜问题上采取强硬立场，阻碍旨在改善关系的任何短期努力。
The North has not responded to the South Korean accusation. If the mines were indeed planted by the North, it would be one of its most daring provocations since it shelled a South Korean island in 2010, killing four.
朝鲜尚未回应韩国的指控。如果地雷的确是朝鲜埋的，这将是朝鲜2010年炮轰韩国一座岛屿，导致四人死亡以来，最大胆的挑衅之一。
The American-led United Nations Command, which oversees the Korean armistice and investigated the mine incident together with the South, said it “condemns these violations” of the armistice and called for talks between generals from the command and the North.
与韩国一起调查此次地雷事件的联合国军(United Nations Command)称，对“这些违反”停战协定的行为“表示谴责”，并呼吁来自联合国军和朝鲜的将领举行会谈。以美国为首的联合国军，负责监督朝韩两国遵守停战协定的情况。
Both the command and the South Korean military ruled out the possibility that the mines were old ones that had drifted from their original placements because of rain or shifting soil.
联合国军和韩国军方均排除了地雷是以前埋放，但因为下雨或泥土移动而离开原埋放地点的可能性。
The DMZ was created in 1953 as part of the Korean War armistice. The armistice has never been replaced with a peace treaty, leaving the divided Korean Peninsula technically in a state of war.
非军事区设立于1953年，是朝鲜战争停战协定的一部分。交战国一直没有签订和平条约从而替代停战协定，因此严格来说，分裂的朝鲜半岛仍处于交战状态。
Both Koreas protect their side of the DMZ with guard posts, barbed-wire fences and minefields. So many mines are there that wild deer sometimes step on them, causing blasts.
朝鲜和韩国均部署了哨所、带刺铁丝围和雷区，来保护非军事区中属于自己的这一边。那里的地雷非常多，有时候野鹿会踩到并引爆地雷。
Old mines loosened by floodwaters also pose a risk for soldiers serving in the zone. In 2010, dozens of North Korean land mines moved into the South through floodwaters, killing one villager and scaring vacationers away from rivers and beaches near the border.
洪水会导致以前埋的地雷出现松动，这也给在非军事区服役的士兵构成了危险。2010年，数十枚朝鲜地雷顺着洪水进入韩国境内，造成一名村民死亡，吓跑了在边境附近的河边和海滩度假的人。
According to a 2011 survey, 116 villagers have been killed by mines in Gangwon, one of the two South Korean provinces on the border with the North.
2011年的一项调查显示，作为与朝鲜接壤的两个省级行政区划之一，韩国的江原道已有116名村民因地雷而丧生。
Despite the booby traps, armed commandos and spies from both sides often infiltrated the border in the years after the Korean War, though both governments have officially said that such infiltrations stopped since the 1970s.
尽管布有饵雷，但在朝鲜战争终战的这些年里，双方的武装突击队员和间谍穿过边界的事件经常发生，不过两国政府均公开宣布，自1970年代以后，这种潜入行动就结束了。
In recent years, South Korea has installed numerous closed-circuit and heat-detecting cameras along the border and around its guard posts.
近年来，韩国在边界沿线和哨所周边安装了大量闭路摄像头和热成像仪。
But its efforts to detect infiltrators were often hampered by lush summer forests inside the DMZ, officials said. (One of the two blasts on Tuesday was captured by such a camera, and its footage was released by the Defense Ministry.)
但官员称，夏天由于非军事区里树木茂盛，侦查潜入者的行动常常会受到影响。（一个摄像头拍下了上周二两次爆炸中的一次，国防部已公布了相关视频。）
The South Korean military’s vigilance came under scrutiny in recent years, as several defectors from the North have crawled across the DMZ to South Korean guard posts.
近年来，韩国军方的警觉程度受到了质疑，因为已有多名脱北者爬过非军事区，抵达韩国哨所。
In 2012, sentries from the South did not know of an infiltration until a defecting North Korean soldier knocked on a window of their guard post. In June, another soldier from the North arrived at a South Korean guard post and spent a night outside, undetected, before turning himself in the next morning.
2012年，一名脱北士兵直到敲响哨所的窗户，才被韩国哨兵发现。今年6月，另一名朝鲜士兵抵达韩国哨所，在外面过了一夜都未被发现，直到第二天早上自首。
Later Monday, South Korea resumed loudspeaker propaganda broadcasts across the border for the first time in 11 years. Such broadcasts, including bitter criticism of the North’s government, were suspended in 2004 as part of efforts at reconciliation.
周一晚些时候，韩国重新开始用喇叭向边界对面广播宣传内容，这是11年来的首次。2004年，作为和解行动的一部分，这种广播暂停了。广播内容包括对朝鲜政府的严厉批评。