SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Saturday that it had successfully test-fired a ballistic missile from a submarine.
韩国首尔——朝鲜在周六表示，已成功进行了潜射弹道导弹的试验发射。
Although American officials had suspected North Korea was developing such a missile system, the country had not previously claimed to have conducted a test launching. The test, if confirmed, would pose a new challenge to the United States and its regional allies, South Korea and Japan, which have been trying to build missile defense capabilities to guard against potential North Korean missile attacks. Submarine-launched missiles are harder to detect and intercept.
此前，虽然美国官员一直怀疑朝鲜正在研发此类导弹系统，该国并未宣布试验性发射的消息。如果此次试验得到证实，美国及其亚洲盟友韩国和日本将会面临新的挑战。美日韩一直在尝试增强其导弹防御能力，以提防朝鲜方面可能会发起的导弹攻击。潜射导弹更加难以被探测和拦截。
“There took place an underwater test-fire of Korean-style powerful strategic submarine ballistic missile,” the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said Saturday. “The test-fire proved and confirmed that the ballistic missile fired from the submarine fully met the requirements of the latest military science and technology.”
朝鲜官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)在周六表示，朝鲜在水下进行了有着本国风格的强大战略潜射弹道导弹的试验发射，此次试验发射证明并确认了其潜射弹道导弹完全达到最新军事科学技术的要求。
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, had ordered the development of the new missile system, and he inspected the test, the news agency said. It did not say where and when the test took place.
朝鲜中央通讯社还表示，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)曾下令开发新型导弹系统，并视察了此次试验。不过通讯社并没有透露试验的时间和地点。
But in another report, the North Korean news agency gave a possible hint of where the launch might have occurred. It reported Saturday that Mr. Kim had visited a fisheries complex in Sinpo, a port on the east coast of North Korea, where American and South Korean analysts have said the North was developing a system for submarine-launched missiles.
不过在另一份报道中，朝鲜中央通讯社对弹道导弹发射地可能做出了暗示。该通讯社周六的报道称，金正恩视察了朝鲜东海岸港口新浦(Sinpo)的渔业区。美国和韩国的分析人士之前指出朝鲜正在新浦研发潜射导弹系统。
Last June, North Korea released photos of Mr. Kim looking into a periscope inside a submarine. South Korean officials said they believed that the visit took place in a submarine base on an island off Sinpo. During the visit, Mr. Kim ordered the modernization of his country’s submarine fleet, and he told submarine crews to prepare to fight in waters far away from their homeland, North Korean state news media said at the time.
去年六月，朝鲜发布了金正恩在潜艇内使用潜望镜的照片。韩国官员认为金正恩的视察地为新浦附近的一座岛屿上的潜艇基地。朝鲜官方媒体那时表示，金正恩在视察过程中下令实现朝鲜潜艇舰队的现代化，并命令潜艇部队做好远洋战斗的准备。
Mr. Kim called the test “an eye-opening success as signal as satellite launch,” comparing it to the North’s successful launching of a long-range rocket to put a satellite into orbit in December 2012. American officials believe that the satellite launching was part of North Korea’s efforts to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of delivering a nuclear warhead to targets as far away as the United States mainland.
金正恩称，“作为一个信号，”此次试验是一次让人“大开眼界的成功，可以同之前的卫星发射相媲美”，2012年12月朝鲜成功发射了远程火箭并将一颗卫星送入轨道。美国官员认为朝鲜尝试研发洲际弹道导弹，希望核弹头的射程能远至美国本土，而卫星的发射则是这一尝试的一部分。
The Saturday edition of the Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, carried photos of Mr. Kim watching a white missile blast out of the water and soar into the sky.
朝鲜执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)的《劳动新闻报》在周六刊登了金正恩视察水下导弹发射的照片。照片显示，一枚白色导弹破水而出，直冲天际。
In a separate Korean-language version of its article, the Central News Agency quoted Mr. Kim as saying that once his country entered a “systematized production” of new submarine missiles and deployed them “in the near future,” it would “make our enemies lose sleep because they are like time bombs that can go off any time on their back.”
在这篇文章的另一个朝鲜语版本中，中央通讯社引述金正恩的话报道称：一旦朝鲜进入到新型潜射导弹的“系统化生产”阶段，并在“不久的将来”展开对导弹的部署，“那么我们的敌人就会夜不能寐，因为潜射导弹就像定时炸弹一样随时都有可能在他们的领土内爆炸。”
A submarine-launched ballistic missile adds to the range, secrecy and flexibility with which North Korea could threaten the United States, South Korea and Japan.
潜射弹道导弹增加了朝鲜导弹发射的射程，隐秘性和灵活性，从而让朝鲜可以用它来威胁美韩日三国。
“North Korea’s development of a submarine-launched missile capability would eventually expand Pyongyang’s threat to South Korea, Japan and U.S. bases in East Asia, also complicating regional missile defense planning, deployment and operations,” Joseph S. Bermudez Jr., an expert on the North Korean military, said in an article posted on the website 38North in January. “Submarines carrying land-attack missiles would be challenging to locate and track, would be mobile assets able to attack from any direction, and could operate at significant distances from the Korean peninsula.”
“朝鲜开发潜射弹道导弹的能力最终将会扩大平壤方面对日韩两国及美国在东亚的军事基地的威胁，同时也会加大区域导弹防御的计划、部署和实施的复杂性，”朝鲜军事问题专家小约瑟夫·贝穆德斯(Joseph S. Bermudez Jr.)在38North网站一月份发表的一篇文章中说道，“很难对携带对地导弹的潜艇进行定位和追踪，潜艇可以从任何方向发起攻击，并且可以在远离朝鲜半岛的地点展开行动。