SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea proposed on Thursday to send family members to meet with 13 North Korean restaurant workers who arrived inSouth Korea this month in what was described by the South as a rare group defection.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周四提议，派家人与本月抵达韩国的13名朝鲜餐厅工作人员见面。韩国称这一事件是一场罕见的集体出逃。
The South immediately dismissed the offer as propaganda and reiterated that the North Koreans had defected of their own free will.
韩国立即拒绝了提议，称其是一种宣传，并重申那些朝鲜人为自愿脱北。
North Korea, which has demanded their return, claims that the South kidnapped the workers — 12 waitresses and a male manager — from a restaurant run by the North Korean government in the Chinese city of Ningbo.
朝鲜要求将他们送回，宣称是韩国从朝鲜政府在宁波开办的一家餐厅绑架了这12名女性服务员和一名男性经理。
On Thursday, the North’s Red Cross Society suggested that the South allow the workers to meet with relatives at Panmunjom, a village on the border between the two Koreas that serves as a contact point.
周四当天，朝鲜红十字会建议韩国允许这些餐厅员工在板门店和亲属见面。板门店是位于两国边境的一座村子，充当着双方的接洽点。
“If necessary, we are willing to send family members to Seoul,” the South Korean capital, the North said in a statement carried by its official Korean Central News Agency.
“如有必要，我们愿意把家人送到首尔，”朝鲜在其官方通讯社朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)刊登的一份声明中说。
The 13 North Koreans are undergoing a government debriefing and resettlement program that could take several months, during which they are not permitted to speak to journalists.
这13名朝鲜人正在接受韩国政府的询问和安置，整个过程可能需要几个月。在此期间，他们不得接受记者的采访。
They decided to defect to the South after learning about the life there through South Korean television dramas and movies they watched in China, South Korean officials said.
韩国官员称，通过在中国观看的韩剧和电影了解韩国的生活后，他们决定脱北。
Many other details of their trip remain unknown.
他们出逃之旅的其他很多细节尚不得而知。
Seven North Korean waitresses at the restaurant returned to the North.
涉事餐厅的七名朝鲜女服务员已回国。
They told a CNN reporter in the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, that the 12 female workers had been deceived by the male manager, who they said held their passports and conspired with a South Korean businessman and the authorities in the South to take them to Seoul.
她们在朝鲜首都平壤对CNN的一名记者表示，那12名女员工被那名男经理骗了。她们称他扣留了那些服务员的护照，与一名韩国商人和韩国当局密谋带她们去首尔。
The manager told the workers that they were being relocated to another restaurant in Southeast Asia, one of the seven women told CNN in the interview, broadcast on Thursday.
在周四播出的这一采访中，其中一名女子对CNN表示，那名经理对员工说，她们是被调去东南亚的另一家餐馆。