WASHINGTON — After North Korea threatened on New Year’s Day to test an intercontinental ballistic missile, Donald J. Trump, then president-elect, reacted with characteristic swagger. He vowed to stop the North from developing a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States. “It won’t happen!” he wrote on Twitter.
华盛顿——朝鲜在元旦时威胁要进行洲际弹道导弹测试，当时的候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)作出了他特有的说大话式的回应。他誓言要阻止朝鲜研发能够攻击美国的核武器。“那不会发生！”他在Twitter上写道。
But six weeks later, after North Korea defiantly launched a missile into the sea, Mr. Trump, now president, reacted with surprising restraint. Appearing before cameras late at night on Saturday in Florida with his golfing guest, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, Mr. Trump read a statement of just 23 words that pledged American support for Tokyo without even mentioning North Korea.
但六周后，在朝鲜挑衅地朝着海里发射了一枚导弹之后，现任总统特朗普表现出了令人意外的克制。周六深夜，在佛罗里达，他和受邀去打高尔夫的客人、日本首相安倍晋三出现在摄像头前时，特朗普朗读了一条只有23个单词的声明，承诺美国将支持东京，而对朝鲜只字未提。
The muted comment stood in sharp contrast to his response after Iran tested a ballistic missile, when he directed his national security adviser to publicly warn Tehran that he was “officially putting Iran on notice” and followed up with sanctions. If North Korea was testing the new president, as many analysts believe, then Mr. Trump seemed intent on showing that he would not be baited into a confrontation every time an American adversary tried to provoke him.
这种不予置评的做法，与他在伊朗测试弹道导弹后作出的反应形成鲜明对比，当时他指示国家安全顾问公开向德黑兰发出警告，称他“正式警告伊朗”，之后还将采取制裁措施。很多分析人士认为朝鲜这是在测试特朗普的态度，如果真的是这样，那么特朗普似乎想要表明，每当美国的敌人试图挑起他的怒火时，他并不会上钩。
At least not right away. In his short time in office, Mr. Trump has shown that he can respond to events in measured ways one moment and with hotheaded bluster the next. But even after waking up on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump chose to publicly feud with Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, rather than the maverick leader of North Korea.
至少不是马上。他上任之后短短这段时间里，特朗普表明，他可以有克制地回应一件事，头脑冲动地处理下一件事。但即使周日早上醒来之后，特朗普也选择了达拉斯小牛队的老板马克·库班(Mark Cuban)，而不是朝鲜独行其是的领导人作为公开争吵的对象。
“I assume they don’t have a strategy yet, so Trump with Abe by his side was properly taciturn, surprisingly so,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, an Asia scholar at the Brookings Institution who served as President Barack Obama’s Asia adviser. “But that can’t hold. At some point you need to articulate a strategy.”
“我认为他们还没有制定好战略，因此安倍晋三在旁边，特朗普只能默然无语，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的亚洲学者、曾为奥巴马担任亚洲事务顾问的杰弗里·A·贝德(Jeffrey A. Bader)说。“但是不能总是这样。在某些时候，你需要阐明战略。”
The tempered response may also have reflected the fact that the missile launched on Sunday by North Korea was either a medium- or an intermediate-range missile, according to the American military, and not an intercontinental missile, or ICBM, capable of reaching the United States.
美国军方认为朝鲜周日发射的是中远程导弹，并非可以击中美国的洲际导弹(ICBM)，因此特朗普这种温和的反应可能也反映了这一事实。
The missile flew 310 miles before dropping harmlessly into the Sea of Japan, according to the South Korean military, which identified it as an intermediate-range Musudan. North Korea regularly tests missiles in violation of United Nations resolutions, including roughly two dozen last year, but has boasted that it could test an ICBM “anytime and anywhere.” The kind tested on Sunday poses a potential threat to American allies in Japan and South Korea and American forces in the Pacific, but could not strike the United States.
韩国军方称，这枚导弹飞行了大约500公里后落入日本海，没有造成危害，它被确认为舞水端(Musudan)远程导弹。朝鲜例行导弹试验违反了联合国决议，去年他们大约测试了20多枚导弹，夸口可以“随时随地”测试ICBM。周日测试的这种导弹对美国的盟国日本和韩国，以及美国在太平洋的军队构成了潜在威胁，但无法打击美国本土。
“It’s yet unclear what missile was tested,” said Thomas Karako, a missile expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “What is certain is that North Korea has now begun 2017 by continuing the aggressive pace of missile testing they’ve shown in recent years.”
“目前尚不清楚测试的是哪种导弹，”华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的导弹专家托马斯·卡拉科(Thomas Karako)说。“可以确定的是，在2017年之初，朝鲜延续了多年来在导弹测试上的突进势头。”
North Korea challenged Mr. Obama early in his tenure, too, with an underground nuclear blast four months after he took office. The effect was to harden Mr. Obama’s attitude toward North Korea for the rest of his presidency, according to former aides. Rather than try to negotiate, as both Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush did, Mr. Obama focused on tightening international sanctions and bolstering alliances with Japan and South Korea.
奥巴马上任之初也曾受到朝鲜的挑战，在他入主白宫四个月后进行了一次地下核爆。奥巴马的前助手称，此举促使奥巴马在余下的任期内采取了更加强硬的对朝立场。像比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)一样，奥巴马的侧重点并不是试着跟朝鲜谈判，而是收紧对朝鲜的国际制裁，并加强与日本和韩国的联盟。
Three weeks in office, the Trump administration is still trying to find its footing on foreign policy, especially in areas like North Korea that have not been Mr. Trump’s main focus. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson was sworn in on Feb. 1 and does not even have a deputy, much less a full team of trusted advisers, in place.
上任三周后，特朗普政府仍在竭力寻找外交政策立足点，尤其是针对特朗普未重点关注的朝鲜等地。国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)于2月1日就职，现在甚至还没有一个副手，更别说由信得过的顾问组成的完整团队了。
That North Korea’s latest test came while Mr. Trump was hosting Mr. Abe for a multiday set of meetings, meals and golfing, first at the White House and then at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., was seen as no accident. And it may be that Mr. Abe counseled Mr. Trump on his response. In his own comments while he stood beside Mr. Trump, Mr. Abe called the launch “absolutely intolerable.”
朝鲜进行最新一次导弹测试之际，特朗普正迎来安倍晋三为期三天的访问，两人先是在白宫，然后在特朗普位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)庄园举行会晤，他们一起进餐，打高尔夫，这被视为一种有意的安排。此外，安倍晋三或许就特朗普该如何反应给出过建议。站在特朗普身边时，安倍晋三本人称此次发射是“绝对不能被容忍”的举动。
Asia experts and members of Congress praised Mr. Trump for reaffirming American support for Japan but lamented that he did not mention South Korea at the same time. “I was glad he issued the statement with the prime minister of Japan, but he ought to do it quickly with South Korea,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “South Korea is probably more susceptible to North Korea’s virulence than any other country.”
特朗普重申了支持日本的立场，亚洲问题专家及国会议员对此表示赞许，但遗憾于他并未同时提及韩国。“我很高兴他和日本首相一同发布了声明，但他还应该尽快和韩国领导人这样做，”参议院少数党领袖、纽约州民主党参议员查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)在CBS的《面对国民》(Face the Nation)节目中表示。“韩国可能是所有国家中最容易被朝鲜的敌意所伤的一个。”
White House officials on Sunday remained quiet about the test and their emerging strategy. Stephen Miller, the president’s senior adviser for policy, said Mr. Trump had sent a strong signal with his joint appearance with Mr. Abe.
周日，白宫官员未就此次测试置评，也没有谈及他们的应急策略。总统的高级政策顾问史蒂芬·米勒(Stephen Miller)说，特朗普已经通过和安倍晋三一同露面发出了强烈的信号。
“But we’re going to be sending another signal very soon, and that signal is when we begin a great rebuilding of the armed forces of the United States,” he said, also on “Face the Nation.” “President Trump is going to go to Congress and ask them to invest in our military so once again we will have unquestioned military strength beyond anything anybody can imagine.”
“但我们很快就会发出另一个信号，即我们将何时着手对美国军队进行伟大的重建，”他同样是在《面对国民》节目中表示。“特朗普总统将前往国会，请求他们向我们的军队投入资金，这样一来我们就会再次拥有超出所有人想象的、无人能敌的军事实力。”
Short of military action, the menu of options available for Mr. Trump is not significantly better than it was for his predecessors. The United States and the United Nations have already imposed a wrenching array of sanctions and have largely isolated North Korea from much of the world.
在不采取军事行动的情况下，与前任总统们相比，特朗普现有的选项并没有好到哪去。美国和联合国已经实施了一系列严厉的制裁，并让朝鲜遭到了世界上很多国家的孤立。
“We will learn an enormous amount about his policy and his administration by how he deals with North Korea,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a managing director at the Eurasia Group and a former Obama adviser. “It’s the land of really bad options, and the threat is only becoming more serious and the window is closing. It will probably become the defining security challenge for the next president in Asia, if not globally.”
“他处理朝鲜问题的方式，对我们理解其政策和政府会有很大帮助，”欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)执行董事、奥巴马的前顾问麦艾文(Evan S. Medeiros)说。“面前的各种选项都非常糟糕，这一威胁变得越发严重，窗口正在关闭。这有可能成为下一任总统在亚洲——甚或在全球——面临的决定性安全挑战。”