SEOUL, South Korea — A man claiming to be a naturalized American citizen told CNN that he has been held in North Korea since October on charges of spying for the South, the network reported on Monday.
韩国首尔——CNN周一报道称，一名自称已加入美国国籍的男子在接受其采访时表示，自10月开始，他一直被以替韩国从事间谍活动的罪名关押在朝鲜。
The North Korean authorities took the man, identified as Kim Dong-chul, 62, to a hotel in Pyongyang, the North’s capital, to be interviewed exclusively by a CNN reporter, the network said. If his claim of American citizenship is correct, he would be the latest American held in the North, whose government has detained several Americans over the years on charges of illegal entry or spying and other “antistate” crimes.
CNN称，朝鲜当局将这名被称作金东哲(Kim Dong-chul)的62岁男子带去了首都平壤的一家酒店，接受CNN记者的专访。如果其自称美国公民的说法属实，这将是朝鲜最新的一起关押美国人事件。过去几年里，朝鲜政府以非法入境或从事间谍及其他“反国家”罪行为名关押过多名美国人。
CNN said it had acquired what North Korea said was a copy of Mr. Kim’s American passport. The State Department declined to comment on the case.
CNN称其拿到了朝鲜所说的一本金东哲美国护照的副本。美国国务院拒绝就此事发表评论。
“As we have said, speaking publicly about specific purported cases of detained Americans can complicate our tireless efforts to secure their freedom,” an official there wrote in an email.
“我们说过，公开谈论具体的美国人被关押事件传闻，可能会不利于我们为解救他们而进行的不懈努力，”一名官员在电子邮件中写道。
North Korea revealed Mr. Kim’s case during a period of rising tensions with Washington, as the United States and its allies are trying to muster international support for a new round of sanctions against the North after it conducted its fourth nuclear test last week.
朝鲜公布金东哲被关押一事，正值其与美国的紧张关系不断升级。因为在朝鲜上周进行了第四次核试验后，美国及其盟友正在争取国际社会的支持，寻求对其进行新一轮的制裁。
When North Korea has held Americans in the past, it has often allowed outside news media to talk to them in interviews that analysts have said are intended to increase Pyongyang’s leverage over Washington. In those interviews, the detainees typically admitted to crimes and asked for their governments to rescue them, as Mr. Kim did in speaking to CNN.
过去关押美国人时，朝鲜通常都会允许外部新闻媒体采访他们。分析人士称，采访是为了增加平壤对华盛顿的影响力。在那些采访中，被关押者往往会认罪，并请求政府营救他们。金东哲在接受CNN采访时便是这么做的。
Mr. Kim said he had lived in Fairfax, Va., before moving to Yanji, a Chinese town near the border with North Korea, in 2001. Later, he said, he ran a trading and hotel services company in Rason, a special economic zone that North Korea runs near its borders with China and Russia.
金东哲说他以前生活在弗吉尼亚州的费尔法克斯，后在2001年搬去了中朝边境附近的城市延吉。他说自己后来在罗先经营了一家贸易和酒店服务公司。罗先地处朝鲜与中国和俄罗斯的边境附近，是朝鲜的一个经济特区。
Mr. Kim said he began spying on behalf of “South Korean conservative elements” in 2013, by bribing residents to collect sensitive data about the North’s military and its nuclear program and smuggling the information into China or South Korea. He said he was arrested in October while he was meeting his local source, a former North Korean soldier, to obtain a computer memory stick and camera used to gather military secrets.
金东哲称自己从2013年开始代表“韩国保守势力”从事间谍活动，方式是收买民众，让对方收集有关朝鲜军方及其核计划的敏感信息，并将信息带去中国或韩国。他说自己是10月被捕的，当时他正在和当地的一个线人接头，对方曾是一名朝鲜军人。他当时是想拿回用来搜集军事机密的电脑记忆棒和照相机。
“I was tasked with taking photos of military secrets and ‘scandalous’ scenes,” he was quoted as saying during the interview, which was conducted in the presence of North Korean officials. “I’m asking the U.S. or South Korean government to rescue me.”
“我的任务是拍摄军事机密和‘骇人听闻的’场景的照片，”他在采访中说。“我请求美国或韩国政府救我。”采访是在朝鲜官员在场的情况下进行的。
CNN did not indicate when the interview took place.
CNN未透露采访地点。
South Korea’s main spy agency, the National Intelligence Service, “has no relationship whatsoever” with Mr. Kim, a spokesman there said. A spokeswoman at the Unification Ministry, the South Korean government agency in charge of relations with the North, said her ministry was checking the report, which said Mr. Kim was born in South Korea.
韩国主要的间谍机构国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)的一名发言人称，该机构与金东哲“毫无关联”。韩国负责对朝关系的政府机构统一部(Unification Ministry)的一名发言人称，该部正在核实相关报道。报道称金东哲出生于韩国。
CNN said the North Korean authorities insisted that the interview be conducted in Korean, through an official interpreter, though it later independently corroborated the translation.
CNN称朝鲜当局坚持要求采访要通过官方的翻译，在朝鲜进行。不过后来，CNN独立地对翻译内容进行了确证。
After their release, past detainees held in the North have said that during interviews in Pyongyang with news media outlets, they were required to give answers that North Korean officials had scripted for them.
过去被朝鲜关押的人在获释后表示，在平壤接受新闻媒体采访期间，他们被要求按照朝鲜官员写给他们的答案回答问题。
When he was asked about the latest nuclear test, Mr. Kim repeated a demand that the North commonly makes, asking Washington to “drop its hostile policies” and sign a peace treaty.
被问及距今最近的核试验时，金东哲反复重申朝鲜常提出的要求，即让华盛顿“放弃敌对政策”，签署和平条约。
North Korea, which zealously tries to shield its public from outside influences, has detained several foreign missionaries and humanitarian workers in recent years, accusing them of crimes against the state. Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary held there on charges of trying to establish a secret proselytizing network, was freed in November 2014 after the United States government sent its director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea.
近年来，一心想让民众不受外部影响的朝鲜羁押了多名外国传教士和人道主义工作人员，指控他们犯了反国家罪。韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)曾被以试图建立一个秘密传教网络的罪名关押。美国政府2014年11月派国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr)访问朝鲜后，肯尼斯·裴才获释。
The North had sentenced Mr. Bae to 15 years of hard labor in the spring of 2013, when tensions between it and Washington were rising after its third nuclear test.
2013年春天，朝鲜在第三次核试验后与美国的紧张关系不断升级。在这期间，肯尼斯·裴被朝鲜判处15年劳役。