SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Sunday that it would put Matthew Todd Miller, one of the three known Americans held in the country, on trial in a week.
韩国首尔——朝鲜于周日表示，将在一周后审判马修·托德·米勒(Mathew Todd Miller)。米勒是三名已知的遭朝鲜扣押的美国人之一。
Mr. Miller will be tried at the North’s Supreme Court next Sunday, the country’s state-run Korean Central News Agency said, indicating that his trial would be a one-day event with no appeals allowed. North Korea had earlier said that Mr. Miller shredded his tourist visa and demanded asylum upon arriving in the country in April. Accusing him of unruly behavior, the North had said it would indict him on charges of committing a “hostile act” against the country.
官方媒体朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)称，米勒将于下周日在朝鲜最高法院受审。这表明，审判将在一天内结束，且不允许上诉。朝鲜早前曾表示，米勒今年4月一抵达该国就撕毁了自己的旅游签证，并要求避难。朝鲜指控他行为失当，并表示将以做出了不利于该国的“敌对行为”的罪名起诉他。
Another American, Jeffrey Edward Fowle, also faced trial for a “hostile act.” Last year, an American missionary named Kenneth Bae was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on charges of hatching a plot to overthrow the government through proselytizing.
另一名美国人杰弗里·爱德华·福尔(Jeffrey Edward Fowle)也因“敌对行为”而面临审判。去年，美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)被判处15年劳役，罪名是借助传教谋求推翻朝鲜政府。
In their separate  interviews with CNN and The Associated Press on Monday, the three Americans said they admitted to being guilty and beseeched Washington to send a high-level envoy to negotiate their freedom.
上周一，这三名美国人分别单独接受了CNN和美联社(The Associated Press)的采访。他们承认自己有罪，并恳求华盛顿派遣高级别使者与朝鲜就释放他们的事宜进行谈判。
The United States has repeatedly offered to send its envoy for North Korean human rights issues, Robert R. King, to Pyongyang to appeal for the release of the Americans, but without success. It has no diplomatic relations with North Korea, and relies on the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang to represent the interests of its citizens held there.
美国曾多次主动提出派遣其朝鲜人权事务特使罗伯特·R·金(Robert R. King)前往平壤呼吁释放这些美国人，但均未获成功。美国与朝鲜没有外交关系，仅依靠瑞典驻平壤大使馆来代理被扣押的美国公民的利益。
North Korea had previously used charges of “hostile acts” to sentence Americans held there to long prison terms, as a means of securing visits from high-profile Americans, like the former Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter. Analysts said the North wanted to extract similar visits to undermine Washington’s effort to increasingly isolate the country over its nuclear and ballistic missile activities.
朝鲜此前曾利用“敌对行为”的指控判处扣押在那里的几名美国人长期徒刑，以此确保备受瞩目的美国大人物能前来朝鲜，比如前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)。由于朝鲜的核试验与弹道导弹活动，华盛顿对其愈加孤立。分析人士称，朝鲜希望能实现类似级别的访问，以阻挠华盛顿的这种努力。