SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Thursday that the country had no option but to consider another nuclear test after the recent “political provocation” by the United Nations to try to indict the North’s leaders for crimes against humanity.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周四表示，因为联合国(United Nations)最近试图以反人类的罪名对朝鲜领导人提起诉讼，这种“政治挑衅”让朝鲜别无选择，只能考虑再进行一次核试验。
The statement from the North Korean Foreign Ministry came two days after a committee of the United Nations voted on Tuesday to adopt a resolution that urged the Security Council to refer the leaders of North Korea to the International Criminal Court for prosecution for extensive violations of human rights.
在朝鲜外务省(North Korean Foreign Ministry)发布这项声明的两天前，联合国的一个委员会于周二通过了一项决议，敦促联合国安理会(Security Council)将朝鲜人权问题提交国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)，以严重侵犯人权的罪名对其领导人提起诉讼。
North Korea has conducted three nuclear tests since 2006, the latest in February last year. Its threat of another test came a day after an American research institute reported that the country might be preparing to reprocess spent nuclear fuel to extract weapons-grade plutonium at its main nuclear complex north of its capital, Pyongyang.
自2006年以来，朝鲜已经进行了三次核试验，最近一次是去年2月。就在朝鲜威胁进行核试验的前一天，一家美国研究机构报导，朝鲜可能准备在首都平壤以北的一处主要核设施对乏燃料进行再加工，以提取武器级钚。
The research organization, the Johns Hopkins University’s U.S.-Korea Institute at SAIS, reported on its website 38 North on Wednesday that recent commercial satellite imagery of the North’s Yongbyon Nuclear Scientific Research Center showed evidence of a lengthy reactor shutdown.
约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)高级国际问题研究院(SAIS)的美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute)周三通过其网站“北纬38度”(38 North)指出，最近朝鲜宁边原子能研究中心(Yongbyon Nuclear Scientific Research Center)的商业卫星图像显示，那里的反应堆经历了长时间的关闭。
The North last reprocessed spent fuel in 2009, when it undertook a series of moves that raised tensions in the region, including its second nuclear test.
朝鲜上次对乏燃料进行再加工是在2009年。当时，朝鲜采取了一系列举动，加剧了该地区的紧张氛围，其中就包括第二次核试验。
China, the North’s main ally, voted against the United Nations resolution and has indicated that it would veto any move at the Security Council to refer the issue to the International Criminal Court. But the mere suggestion that the top North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, could be held accountable in a criminal court has infuriated the North Korean government.
朝鲜的主要盟国中国投票对联合国的决议表示反对，而且还表示，中国将否决安理会(Security Council)把相关事宜递交国际刑事法院的所有举动。但是，仅仅是朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)会在法院接受审判的可能性，就已经让朝鲜政府十分恼怒。
On Thursday, it called the resolution a “political provocation,” accusing the United States of hiring “rubber stamps” to pass the document. It said the resolution set a dangerous precedent in “politicizing and internationalizing the issue of human rights” to overthrow an independent country’s government.
周四，朝鲜称这项决议为“政治挑衅”，并指责美国雇佣“傀儡”让相关文件得到了通过。朝鲜称，这项决议设立了一个危险的先例：通过“将人权问题政治化和国际化”来推翻一个独立国家的政府。
“The United States’ hostile acts are leaving us no longer able to refrain from conducting a new nuclear test,” said the North Korean statement, which was carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. “Our war deterrent will be strengthened infinitely in the face of the United States’ plot for armed interference and invasion.”
“美国对朝鲜采取的敌对行为，使朝鲜在开展新一轮核试验方面不能再保持克制，”朝鲜通过官方的朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)发表声明称。“朝鲜将无限度地加强战争威慑力，应对美国的武装干涉和侵略阴谋。”
In a report on Oct. 3, the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security cited satellite imagery indicating the possible shutdown of a five-megawatt nuclear reactor at Yongbyon for either partial refueling or renovations. Spent fuel from that reactor remains the North’s only known source of plutonium, fuel for its small arsenal of nuclear bombs.
华盛顿的科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)于10月3日发表的报告以一些卫星图像为依据，指出朝鲜可能关闭了宁边的一座五兆瓦级核反应堆，以便补给部分燃料，或进行整修。该反应堆的乏燃料仍然是朝鲜唯一已知的钚来源，钚是一种核弹燃料，朝鲜拥有少量核弹。
In its Wednesday report, the U.S.-Korea Institute cited what it called new evidence, such as steam rising and truck activity, that it said indicated that North Korea was unloading some of the used fuel rods from the reactor and “may be preparing to restart the Radio-chemical Laboratory” at Yongbyon. The laboratory separates weapons-grade plutonium from waste materials from spent nuclear fuel.
在周三的报告中，美韩研究所援引了他们所说的新证据，比如升腾的蒸汽和卡车的活动，报告称这些证据说明朝鲜正在将该反应堆的一些废燃料棒运走，“可能正在准备重启放射化学实验室。”位于宁边的该实验室，负责从乏燃料的废弃物中提取武器级钚。