SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Friday that American-led international sanctions were causing “colossal” damages in the impoverished country, but added that it would be foolish for Washington to think the sanctions would stop the country’s nuclear weapons programs.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周五称，美国领导的国际制裁给这个一贫如洗的国家造成的损失“非常严重”，但接着又表示，华盛顿认为制裁会阻止朝鲜的核武器计划的想法是愚蠢的。
North Korean officials recently set up a committee to investigate the damages that the sanctions have caused on the country’s economy and the well-being of the population. The committee’s work was designed to draw international sympathy by highlighting the sufferings of North Korean children, women and elderly people, analysts said.
朝鲜官方最近成立了一个委员会，调查制裁给朝鲜经济和民众福祉造成的损害。分析人士称，该委员会的工作是为了通过强调朝鲜儿童、妇女和老人的痛苦来引起国际社会的同情。
The sanctions are “a brutal criminal act that indiscriminately infringes upon the right to existence of the peaceful civilians,” said a spokesman of the Sanctions Damages Investigation Committee in a statement carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency on Friday. “The colossal amount of damage caused by these sanctions to the development of our state and the people’s livelihood is beyond anyone’s calculation.”
制裁是“是全面侵害和平居民生存权的野蛮罪行”，制裁受害调查委员会(Sanctions Damages Investigation Committee)的一名发言人在官方的朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)周五发布的一份声明中说。“它给朝鲜的发展和民生造成的损失非常严重，是不可估量的。”
The North Korean statement came after President Trump’s executive order last week, which strengthened his administration’s authority to target foreign banks that facilitate trade with North Korea. On Tuesday, the United States added eight North Korean banks to its sanctions blacklist.
在朝鲜发表此番声明前，特朗普总统上周发布行政命令，加强了联邦政府把目标对准为对朝贸易提供便利的外国银行的权力。周二，美国的制裁黑名单中又多了八家朝鲜银行。
On Thursday, China said it would close business joint ventures with North Korea within 120 days, in accordance with the latest United Nations sanctions.
周四，中国表示将遵守最新的联合国制裁，在120天内关闭与朝鲜的合资企业。
North Korea has endured sanctions for decades, devising ways to circumvent them.
朝鲜数十年来一直是制裁的对象，也一直在想方设法地避开制裁。
The unidentified North Korean spokesman said on Friday that it was “a foolish dream to hope that the sanctions could work” on North Korea after they had failed to stop it from becoming a nuclear weapons state.
前述身份不明的朝鲜发言人周五称，在制裁未能阻止朝鲜成为核武国家后，“指望朝鲜会被制裁所动摇，是愚不可及的妄想。”
After North Korea’s recent nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests, the Trump administration is strengthening its campaign to squeeze North Korea financially while warning that military action is also on the table.
在朝鲜最近的核试验和洲际弹道导弹试验后，特朗普政府正在加大从经济上挤压朝鲜的行动力度，同时警告称军事行动也在考虑之中。
”We call on all countries to join us in cutting all trade and financial ties with North Korea,” Acting Assistant Secretary Susan A. Thornton told a Senate committee on Thursday.
“我们呼吁所有国家和我们一起，切断与朝鲜的贸易和经济往来，”代理助理国务卿苏珊·A·桑顿(Susan A. Thornton)周四对参议院的一个委员会表示。
Ms. Thornton said the United States had “no desire to inflict harm on the long-suffering North Korean people, whom we view as distinct from the hostile regime in Pyongyang.” But she said sanctions were working, and urged the world to rigorously enforce them.
桑顿说，美国“无意伤害长期受苦的朝鲜民众，我们认为他们不同于怀有敌意的平壤政权”。但她说制裁正在起作用，并敦促全世界严格执行制裁。
In its two recent rounds of sanctions adopted on Aug. 5 and Sept. 11 respectively, the United Nations Security Council sought to ban critical North Korean exports, like textiles, coal, iron and seafood.
在分别于8月5日和9月11日获得通过的最近两轮制裁中，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)试图禁止对朝鲜至关重要的出口，如纺织品、煤炭、铁和海鲜。
In keeping with the sanctions, Kuwait, Qatar, Malaysia and Malta have stopped issuing visas to North Korean workers and are phasing out the use of these workers, whose wages helped finance the North Korean government and its nuclear and missile programs, Ms. Thornton said.
科威特、卡塔尔、马来西亚和马耳他已按照制裁的规定，停止向朝鲜劳工发放签证，并将逐步停止雇佣这些劳工。桑顿说，他们的工资参与资助了朝鲜政府及其核武器和导弹计划。
Poland is the only country in Europe still hosting significant numbers of North Korean workers, she said.
她说，波兰是欧洲唯一一个仍然拥有大量朝鲜劳工的国家。