SEOUL, South Korea —  North Korea flouted United Nations resolutions on Monday by launching two Scud-type ballistic missiles toward the sea between the Korean Peninsula and Japan, as the United States and South Korea started their annual joint military drills.
韩国首尔——随着美国和韩国开始了他们的年度联合军事演习，朝鲜周一无视联合国决议，向朝鲜半岛与日本之间的海域发射了两枚飞毛腿型弹道导弹。
The two missiles, believed to be Scud-C missiles, took off from near Nampo, a coastal city southwest of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and flew across the peninsula before crashing into the sea off the North’s east coast, officials at the South Korean Defense Ministry said. The two projectiles flew about 490 kilometers, or about 300 miles, they said.
韩国国防部官员说，这两枚据信为飞毛腿-C型的导弹从朝鲜首都平壤西南的沿海城市南浦附近发射，跨越了朝鲜半岛，在朝鲜东海岸以外的海域落入水中。他们说，这两枚投射物飞行了490公里，约300英里。
The ministry’s main spokesman, Kim Min-seok, condemned the North Korean missile tests as a “saber-rattling provocation” and a violation of United Nations resolutions that banned the North from testing any ballistic missile-related technology. The ban was imposed after the North’s recent tests of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles raised fears that the country was developing a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile.
韩国国防部主要发言人金珉锡谴责朝鲜的导弹试验是一种“炫耀武力的挑衅”，违反了联合国禁止朝鲜测试任何弹道导弹相关技术的决议。这项禁令是在朝鲜最近的核武器和远程导弹试验后实行的，国际社会担心朝鲜正在发展装有核弹头的洲际弹道导弹。
The North launched its missiles on Monday shortly after a statement from its military warned that it “will never remain a passive onlooker” to the Key Resolve and Foal Eagle annual joint war games the United States and South Korea started on Monday.
朝鲜周一发射导弹是在其军方发表了一份声明之后不久，声明警告说，朝鲜对周一开始的代号为“关键决断”和“秃鹫”的美韩年度军演“绝不会袖手旁观”。
The military exercises, which involved tens of thousands of South Korean and American troops and were scheduled to last until April 24, were “dangerous nuclear war drills” aimed at toppling the North Korean government, a spokesman of the General Staff of the North Korean People’s Army said in a statement carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.
此次军演涉及成千上万的韩国和美国军队，计划将持续到4月24日。在朝鲜中央新闻社发布的一份声明中，朝鲜人民军总参谋部的一位发言人称军演是“是一场万分危险的侵朝核战争演习”，目的是推翻朝鲜政府。
North Korea was ready to “bring earlier the final ruin of the U.S. imperialists and their allies,” promising to respond in kind to attacks by conventional, nuclear or electronic means, all in “Korean style.”
朝鲜已做好“早日促成美国及其追随势力的最终毁灭”的准备，并将以“朝鲜式的”常规战争、核打击和网络战予以回击。
The United States has blamed North Korea for a cyberattack that hacked into Sony Pictures late last year. President Obama warned in January that a government like North Korea’s would collapse over time, saying that the democratic influences of the Internet would inevitably penetrate the country, isolated as it was. On Monday, North Korea took Mr. Obama’s comment as reflecting an American intention to wage a cyberwar to overthrow its reclusive government.
美国一直指责朝鲜去年年底对索尼影业进行了网络攻击。美国总统奥巴马一月份曾警告说，像朝鲜这样的政府一段时间后肯定会垮台，他说，互联网的民主影响将不可避免地渗透那个国家，尽管它目前与世隔绝。周一，朝鲜认为奥巴马的言论反映了美国有意发动网络战争，以推翻其孤立的政府。
Although both Washington and Seoul called their annual military exercises defensive in nature, North Korea has typically responded to them with harsh rhetoric and military maneuvers of its own. It launched a series of Scud and Rodong ballistic missiles, as well as shorter-range missiles and rockets, in February and March of last year to counter the allies’ joint drills at the time. In March 2010, a South Korean warship was exploded in waters near the border with North Korea, killing 46 sailors, and Seoul attributed it to a North Korean torpedo attack.
尽管华盛顿和首尔称他们的年度军事演习是防御性的，但朝鲜通常以严厉辞令和自己的军事行动做出反应。去年2月和3月，朝鲜发射了一系列的飞毛腿和“劳动”弹道导弹，以及短程导弹和火箭，作为对当时的美韩联合军演的响应。2010年3月，一艘韩国军舰在朝鲜边境附近海域爆炸，导致46名船员死亡，首尔认为那是朝鲜鱼雷袭击造成的。
“If North Korea provokes us, we will respond decisively and powerfully and make them sorry to the core of their bones,” Mr. Kim, the South Korean spokesman, said on Monday.
韩国发言人金珉锡周一表示，“如果朝鲜向我们发出挑衅，我们将果断地、强有力地做出回应，让他们彻头彻尾地后悔。”
Analysts say that North Korea raises tensions on the peninsula during the joint military drills to consolidate domestic unity by inspiring fears of foreign invasion, as well as to gain leverage in dealing with Washington and Seoul.
分析人士说，朝鲜在联合军演期间在半岛制造紧张局势，是为了通过激发对外国入侵的担忧来巩固国内团结，也是为了在与华盛顿和首尔打交道上争取筹码。