AN ENGLISH-STYLE COTTAGE OUTSIDE CHRISTCHURCH ON THE SOUTH ISLAND
待售房产：一栋英格兰风格的乡村小屋，位于克赖斯特彻奇市(Christchurch)以外的南岛(South Island)上
4.5 MILLION NEW ZEALAND DOLLARS ($3.7 MILLION)
价格：450万新西兰元（370万美元，约合人民币2263万元）
This cottage, nestled into a hill above Governors Bay near Christchurch, dates to 1852; the original structure was volcanic sandstone and sod. Called Taunton Gardens, the four-bedroom home was eventually enlarged and the sod portions made permanent. Then came the earthquakes of 2010, which damaged the original walls. In a process that took almost three years, each stone was numbered, and the cottage was dismantled and then rebuilt exactly as it had been, with two-foot-thick walls now strengthened by concrete and steel, said Barry Sligh, the homeowner.
这栋乡村小屋，坐落在离克赖斯特彻奇市不远处俯瞰总督湾(Governors Bay)的一座小山上，始建于1852年，原建筑用料是火山砂石与草皮。这处带有4间卧室的房产，被命名为陶顿花园(Taunton Garden)，后来终于得以扩建，草皮的部分也换成了更持久的材料。此后，2010年发生的地震使得原有墙体遭到了破坏。在将近三年的修缮过程中，每块石头都被编了号，然后小屋被拆除，再完全依照曾经的样式重建起来。如今小屋的墙壁厚达2英尺（约0.61米），由混凝土和钢材加固，房屋的主人巴里·斯莱(Barry Sligh)介绍说。
“It’s very substantial,” said Mr. Sligh, a stonemason who did the work himself. “It’s built like a castle, so it’s been a major job. There’s a documentary being made about the process.”
“这栋房屋非常坚固，”斯莱说，他是一名石匠，亲自完成了重建工作。“修建得就像一座城堡，这可是个大工程。还有人拍了部纪录片，记录了整个过程。”
The roof was redone with Canadian shakes and a dining room was added, bringing the square footage to almost 2,500. With the project complete, the two-story cottage, with rows of small dormers on the front and back and many original leaded casement windows, looks like a dwelling out of the English countryside. The original builder was from the town of Taunton in Somerset, England — hence the property’s name, Mr. Sligh said.
屋顶重铺了加拿大木片瓦(Canadian shakes)，并增加了一间餐厅，使建筑面积几乎接近2500英尺（约232.3平方米）。项目完工后，这栋两层乡村小屋前后屋顶上的成排小天窗，以及原来就有的几扇铅条平开窗，使之看起来就像一栋坐落在英格兰乡村的居所。最初修建这栋房屋的人，来自英国萨默塞特郡(Somerset)的陶顿镇(Taunton)，小屋因而有了现在的名字，斯莱说。
Floors and walls in some rooms are lined with native timbers that can now be difficult or impossible to find. Low ceilings have wooden beams, but the new dining room has large windows and a vaulted ceiling lined in rimu, a native wood. The first floor has two living rooms, one with a gas fireplace; a small office; and a bedroom suite with a spa bathtub. It is also home to the kitchen, which has a wood-burning stove as well as modern appliances by the New Zealand appliance manufacturers Parmco and Fisher & Paykel. Furnishings like the kitchen island fashioned from an antique loom are not included in the asking price, but are negotiable. An English oak staircase leads to the second floor, where three bedrooms and two baths have views of gardens and the bay.
一些房间的地板和墙壁是用本地木料铺成的，这样的木料现在已经很难找、或者根本不可能找到了。低矮的天花板上架着木质横梁，而新建的餐厅里有几扇大窗户，还有用一种当地木材——芮木泪柏(rimu)搭起的拱形天花板。位于一楼的两间起居室之一有一座燃气壁炉，此外一楼还有一间小办公室，以及一处带水疗浴缸的卧室套间。这里还是厨房的所在地，里面不仅有烧柴炉灶，还有来自新西兰家电制造商Parmco和斐雪派克（Fisher & Paykel，全球顶级厨房电器品牌——译注）的现代化电器。有些家具并不包含在要价当中，比如那座模仿古董织机的厨房岛台，但是可以协商。一段英式橡木楼梯通往二楼，那里的三间卧室和两间浴室都能看见花园和海湾的景色。
Taunton Gardens is on about 20 acres; it has two other small cottages of under 1,000 square feet, each with a bedroom, a combined kitchen and living room, a bathroom and laundry facilities. Formerly used for weddings, Taunton Gardens also has a tennis court with adjacent restrooms and catering facilities, along with a small one-room building with a kitchenette and a potbelly stove. Mr. Sligh said that over the course of four decades, he had developed acres of gardens that formerly served as a nursery business. In the shade of an ancient oak tree, the gardens have patios, walkways, benches, old farm implements and large concrete sculptures. Mr. Sligh said that plans he had commissioned to subdivide the property into four small estates could be included in the sale.
陶顿花园占地大约20英亩（约8.1公顷）；这片地产还包括另两座不到1000平方英尺（约92.9平米）的小屋，每座小屋都有一间卧室、一间开放式厨房兼客厅、一间浴室及洗衣设施。陶顿花园还有一处网球场，从前被用作婚礼场地，附近有公共卫生间及烹饪设施，这里有座一居室的房子，带一处迷你厨房和一座大腹取暖炉。斯莱说，在四十年的时间里，他在一片曾用来经营托儿所的土地上，拓出了数英亩的花园。在一棵老橡树的荫蔽下，花园里有露台、走道、长椅、旧式农具，还有一些大型混凝土雕塑作品。斯莱说，他已在计划把这处财产分割为四小部分不动产，可能会在此次销售中执行。
Taunton Gardens is about 25 minutes from Christchurch, the South Island’s largest city, with a population of about 370,000. The region abounds in scenic preserves and parks popular with hang gliders, cyclists, hikers, skiers, boaters and anglers. A golf course is about 10 minutes away, and the beach is within walking distance, Mr. Sligh said. Christchurch’s international airport is about a 30-minute drive, though Taunton Gardens is equipped to land helicopters, which make the trip in about 5 minutes, he said.
陶顿花园距离克赖斯特彻奇市约有25分钟路程。克赖斯特彻奇是南岛上最大的城市，人口大约37万。该地区有很多风景保护区和公园，颇受喜欢悬挂式滑翔机、骑行、徒步、滑雪、划船和钓鱼的人欢迎。高尔夫球场距此地大约10分钟路程，海滩徒步可到，斯莱说。克赖斯特彻奇的国际机场大约开车30分钟可到，不过陶顿花园也备有直升机起落坪，走路5分钟就到了，他说。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况 
New Zealand’s home sales languished and home prices fell by about 10 percent after the global real estate crisis of 2008, but the market has bounced back over all, said Helen O’Sullivan, the chief executive of the Real Estate Institute of New Zealand. The peak median home price before the crash was 352,000 New Zealand dollars, or about $292,000; today the median is 425,000 New Zealand dollars, or about $353,000, she said.
新西兰的住宅销售处于萎缩状态，2008年全球房地产危机过后，房价下跌了大约10%，不过目前市场已经整体反弹，新西兰房地产协会(Real Estate Institute of New Zealand)的首席执行官海伦·欧苏利文(Helen O'Sullivan)说。房价下跌前的最高中间价格是35.2万新西兰元，或大约29.2万美元（约合人民币177万元）；而现在，这一中间价格是42.5万新西兰元，大约35.3万美元（约合人民币214万元）。
Prices in the large cities of Auckland and Christchurch, which basically perform as a separate market from the rest of the country, are well above their 2007 peaks, Ms. O’Sullivan said. Prices in Christchurch, where the range is roughly $650,000 to $1 million, have gone up since the 2010 earthquakes, which destroyed 10 to 15 percent of the housing stock, brokers said.
奥克兰(Auckland)和克赖斯特彻奇这类大城市的房地产市场，行情基本上独立于全国其他城市，房价远高于2007年所达到的高峰，欧苏利文说。克赖斯特彻奇的房价区间大约在65万美元（约合人民币394万元）到100万美元（约合人民币606万元）之间，自从2010年地震后已经上涨。那场地震摧毁了房屋存量的10%到15%，有经纪人说。
“Christchurch is really hard to buy in because of the seismic issues,” Ms. O’Sullivan said. “Even when a property is being sold after repair, there are lots of issues around the building reports that are required, and getting insurance in some parts of Christchurch is something you need to be very careful about.”
“由于地震带来的种种问题，克赖斯特彻奇市真的很难买入房产，”欧苏利文说，“即使一处房产在修缮后被出售，围绕该建筑物提供的各类报告，仍会产生许多问题，而且在克赖斯特彻奇市的某些地方，对于投保事宜，你尤其需要谨慎考虑。”
There is growing demand in New Zealand for what are known as “lifestyle properties,” or properties outside the cities with more than about five acres, particularly outside Auckland, brokers said. Generally, these properties range in price from about $1 million to $2 million, while working farms, which are also popular, may sell for as much as $40 million, Mr. Langley said. But such properties typically require too much maintenance to appeal to foreign buyers who aren’t living in New Zealand full-time, Ms. O’Sullivan said.
在新西兰，对于所谓的“度假房产”(lifestyle properties)，也就是在城市周边——尤其是奥克兰市外围——面积超过5英亩（约合2公顷）的房产的需求，正在不断增长，经纪人说。通常，这些房产的价格从100万美元（约合人民币606万元）至200万美元（约合人民币1211万元）不等，而同样很受欢迎的垦殖场(working farm)，售价则可高达4000万美元（约合人民币2.4亿元），经纪人兰利(Langley)说。但是，这样的地产一般需要高昂的维护成本，因而难以吸引不会常年在新西兰居住的国外买家，欧苏利文说。
WHO BUYS IN NEW ZEALAND
哪些人在新西兰购房
The Christchurch area attracts some foreign buyers, but most foreigners tend to be drawn to Auckland on the north island, the country’s largest city with about 1.42 million residents, Ms. O’Sullivan said. Other areas that attract foreigners are the mountain village Queenstown and the Central Otago district on the south island, which have outdoor activities and wineries, said Mary Sharp, the South Island Sales Manager for New Zealand Sotheby’s International Realty.
克赖斯特彻奇市吸引着一些国外买家，但大多数外国人一般会被引向北岛(north island)上全国最大的城市——奥克兰。那里大约有142万居民，欧苏利文说。其他吸引外国人的地方还有昆士敦(Queenstown)山村，与南岛上的中央奥塔戈区(Central Otago)，那里有很多户外活动和酿酒厂，南岛的新西兰苏富比国际地产(New Zealand Sotheby’s International Realty)销售经理玛丽·夏普(Mary Sharp)说。
Foreign buyers tend to come from the United States, Britain, China, Hong Kong, Germany, France, India and Australia, Ms. Sharp said.
海外买家一般来自美国、英国、中国、香港、德国、法国、印度和澳大利亚，夏普说。
Mr. Langley says Asian buyers tend to predominate, as they are geographically nearer, but the market also sees its share of Americans seeking lifestyle properties, and Europeans looking for a warmer climate or a haven from political instability.
兰利说，亚洲买家逐渐占据了优势，因为他们在地理位置上更近；但市场中也有很多想买度假房产的美国人，以及希望寻找更温暖的气候或政治动荡避风港的欧洲人。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
In general, Ms. O’Sullivan said, foreign buyers don’t face restrictions. But certain properties considered “sensitive” — typically tracts of rural land over about 12.4 acres, or bordering nature preserves or water — require a buyer to seek the approval of the Overseas Investment Office. Taunton Gardens’ size puts it in the latter category, so a foreign buyer would need government approval, Mr. Langley said.
总的来说，欧苏利文说，国外买家并不受限制。但某些被认为“敏感”的房产——通常是超过12.4英亩（约5公顷）的大片乡村土地，或与自然保护区或水源接壤的土地，则要求买家寻求海外投资办公室(Overseas Investment Office)的批准。陶顿花园的占地面积恰使其处于后者之列，所以外国买家需要获得政府批准，兰利说。
In general, transactions are simple and straightforward, with no stamp duty or taxes, Ms. O’Sullivan said. Legal costs typically range from about $1,500 to $4,000 for those who opt to hire a lawyer for the transaction, and home sales close quickly, often within 10 working days, Mr. Langley said. Many foreign buyers tend to pay in cash or obtain financing overseas; mortgage interest in New Zealand is usually more expensive, he said.
总体上，房地产交易简单直接，没有印花税或其它税负，欧苏利文说。对那些想雇佣一名律师进行交易的人而言，法律事务的成本通常在大约1500美元（约合人民币9085元）到4000美元（约合人民币24228元）的范围内，而且住宅交易一般在10个工作日内就可很快完成，兰利说。许多国外买家倾向于现金支付，或者在海外取得融资；新西兰的按揭利率通常更高，他说。
WEB SITES
网站
Official New Zealand tourism site: Newzealand.com Te Ara, the Encyclopedia of New Zealand: Teara.govt.nz Christchurch portal: Christchurch.org.nz Overseas Investment Office: Linz.govt.nz/overseas-investment
新西兰旅游官方网站：Newzealand.com Te Ara，新西兰百科全书：Teara.govt.nz 克赖斯特彻奇市门户网站：Christchurch.org.nz 海外投资办公室：Linz.govt.nz/overseas-investment 
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
English, Maori, New Zealand Sign Language; New Zealand dollar (1 New Zealand dollar = $0.83)
英语，毛利语，新西兰手语；新西兰元（1新西兰元=0.83美元，约合人民币5元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Taxes on this property are about 3,000 New Zealand dollars ($2,490) a year.
该地产需缴税额，大约为每年3000新西兰元（2490美元，约合人民币1.5万元）
CONTACT
联系方式
Brian Langley, New Zealand Sotheby’s International Realty, 011-64-3-360-2148, Nzsothebysrealty.com
布莱恩·兰利(Brian Langley)，新西兰苏富比国际地产(New Zealand Sotheby’s International Realty)，011-64-3-360-2148, Nzsothebysrealty.com