The currency known as bitcoin — a much-hyped and much-doubted type of digital cash that can be bought with traditional money — has mostly attracted attention for its popularity in the black market, and for its wildly gyrating valuation.
人们称这种货币为“比特币(bitcoin)”——这是一种能够用传统货币兑换的电子货币；它受到大肆宣传，但是也遭到很多质疑——比特币在黑市上广受欢迎，而其价值也上下波动剧烈，因此吸引了人们的广泛注意。
But some entrepreneurs, investors and even merchants are eyeing a far more mainstream use for it. They are convinced that bitcoin, though not widely understood, offers a path to lower payment processing and more secure transactions. Instead of using bitcoin to buy illegal guns in the recesses of the web, they say, ordinary consumers will use it to buy legal goods from legal retailers — and as easily as they now swipe their credit cards or exchange paper bills.
但是一些企业家，投资人甚至商人们都在期盼比特币能够有更加主流的用途。他们相信，虽然很多人都还不太了解比特币，但是这种货币提供了一条降低支付成本，提高交易安全系数的途径。他们声称，一般消费者不会在互联网的角落，用比特币非法购买枪支，而是会从合法的零售商那里，购买合法的货品——交易如此简单，就像人们现在刷信用卡，或者直接付现金那样。
“I’m confident you will see major worldwide retailers adopting systems built on bitcoin,” said Jim Breyer, the Silicon Valley venture capitalist and early Facebook investor who also served on the board of Walmart Stores for more than a decade.
吉姆·布雷耶(Jim Breyer)是一位硅谷风险投资人，他是Facebook的早期投资人，同时在沃尔玛超市(Walmart)的董事会担任董事超过十年之久。他说，“我有信心，你将会看到全球主要零售商采用建立在比特币基础上的系统。”
Mr. Breyer is an investor in Circle Internet Financial, one of the host of start-ups trying to find a way to make bitcoin a widely adopted currency for retail payments. The company was started by Jeremy Allaire, a serial entrepreneur, and it aims to be a payment processing system for online and physical merchants, similar to the service PayPal offers online. Along with his venture firm, Accel Partners, and another called General Catalyst Partners, Mr. Breyer has invested $9 million in the company.
布雷耶是互联网金融圈(Circle Internet Financial)的投资人。该公司孵化了许多初创企业，后者都在寻求路径，让比特币变成能够进行零售支付的，为人们广泛使用的货币。互联网金融圈的创始人是连环创业家杰里米·奥莱尔(Jeremy Allaire)，该公司的目标是为在线和实体商户提供一套支付处理系统，跟贝宝(PayPal)提供的网络支付服务类似。布雷耶本人向该公司注资九百万美元；公司其他投资人还包括通用催化剂合伙人(General Catalyst Partners)，以及布雷耶自己的风险投资机构，阿克塞尔合伙人(Accel Partners)。
One potential obstacle to mainstream acceptance of bitcoin is the sometimes wild fluctuations in its value, which makes it alluring to currency speculators but could scare off ordinary consumers. One bitcoin was worth just over $200 Wednesday afternoon. Someone who bought a bitcoin in early April paid as much as $266 for it.
要让比特币为主流社会认可，还有一项潜在的阻碍，就是比特币价值波动太过剧烈。虽然这吸引了货币投机者，但却可能让普通消费者望而却步。周三下午，一个比特币价值200美元多一点儿。但是如果一个人在四月初兑换了一个比特币的话，他最多要付出266美元的成本。
Only a small and motley assortment of merchants now accept bitcoin as payment, and in many cases they do it largely as a marketing strategy. The list includes a winery in British Columbia, the popular online dating site OkCupid and a Seattle lunch truck that specializes in grilled cheese sandwiches. A start-up called Gyft lets people buy electronic gift cards for major retailers with bitcoin, and this week an A.T.M. in Vancouver, Canada, began issuing bitcoin to people in exchange for cash.
现阶段，只有少数商户接受比特币作为支付手段，而且鱼龙混杂；很多情况下，他们接受比特币更多的是一种营销手段。接受比特币的商户就包括了一家英属哥伦比亚的酒庄，知名在线婚恋网站OK丘比特(OkCupid)，以及一个主打烤起司三明治的西雅图午餐车。一家叫做吉福特(Gyft)的初创企业允许人们用比特币购买主要零售商的电子礼品卡；而就在本周，加拿大温哥华出现了一台自动柜员机，允许人们用比特币兑换现金。
“We pride ourselves on being the nerdiest online dating site,” said Sam Yagan, co-founder of OkCupid, which is owned by IAC/InterActiveCorp, a media and Internet company. “We were like, ‘This is cool and we should do it.’ ”
山姆·雅甘(Sam Yagan)是OK丘比特的联合创始人，他说，“我们很骄傲，因为我们是最有宅男气质的婚恋网站。我们就像在说，‘用比特币挺酷的，我们就这么干吧。’”。OK丘比特是互联网媒体公司IAC/InterActiveCorp的旗下企业。
Since bitcoin emerged in 2009, many of those who flocked to the currency celebrated it for being beyond the clutches of governments and other institutions. Until recently, the currency lubricated transactions on Silk Road, one of the Web’s biggest bazaars for drugs, forged documents and other contraband. The site was shut down in early October by federal authorities.
自从2009年比特币诞生之后，很多拥趸都在称赞说，比特币不受到政府和其他机构的控制。直到最近，互联网上最大的毒品、伪造文件和其他违禁品的交易市场之一丝绸之路(Silk Road)一直都接受比特币作为支付手段。10月初，该网站被联邦机构关停。
New bitcoin is created on computers connected through a peer-to-peer network. An algorithm controls the production of new bitcoin, which is meant to mitigate the risk of inflation.
想要制造新的比特币，就必须把电脑连接到点对点网络上去。新比特币的生成由一组算法控制，这是为了控制通货膨胀的风险。
Fred Ehrsam, co-founder of Coinbase, a start-up that helps merchants accept bitcoin and helps consumers obtain it by exchanging traditional currencies, said he thought the demise of Silk Road gave entrepreneurs and investors more confidence in bitcoin.
弗莱德·厄热山姆(Fred Ehrsam)是克银贝斯(Coinbase)的联合创始人。这家初创企业帮助商户接受比特币的支付，同时帮助消费者以传统货币兑换比特币。厄热山姆说，他认为丝绸之路被关停之后，比特币的创业者和投资者就更有信心了。
“The bad guys basically lost,” said Mr. Ehrsam, whose start-up has raised over $6 million from Union Square Ventures and others. “It took the single most illegitimate player in the space and wiped them off the map.”
厄热山姆说，“坏人基本上失败了。圈子里最不守规矩的玩家已经出局了，这些人都被赶走了。”他的初创企业已经从合广投资(Union Square Ventures)等投资人那里融资超过六百万美元。
Bitcoin advocates, and especially merchants, say one of the currency’s most enticing promises is that it could significantly lower payment processing costs.
这些比特币的支持者，特别是商户表示，比特币最诱人之处，是它能够极大地降低支付成本。
Retailers typically pay 2 to 3 percent of the value of a customer sale when a credit card is used. Retailers have long complained about these fees and have sought other options, but without much luck. PayPal, the online payment system, typically charges merchants a fee between 2.2 percent and 2.9 percent, as well as a per-transaction fee of 30 cents.
一般来说，如果消费者使用信用卡，那么零售商将要支付的交易成本为销售金额的2%到3%。零售商一直都在抱怨这些费用，还在寻求其他的支付途径，但是进展不多。作为一款在线支付系统，贝宝一般会收取商户2.2%到2.9%的费用，此外每笔交易还要收取30美分的固定费用。
“There have been a number of alternative currencies talked about over time,” said Chris Monteiro, a spokesman for MasterCard. “The bottom line is consumers want a payment solution that is safe, simple to use and universally accepted.”
克里斯·蒙泰罗(Chris Monteiro)是万事达卡的发言人，他说，“一直以来，人们都在讨论各种替代货币。底线是消费者需要一种安全易用，且被广泛接受的支付解决方案。”
Fees for a merchant accepting bitcoin payments often range from nothing to less than 2 percent because of the open nature of the technology. Coinbase, for example, said it did not charge its merchants for the first $1 million in sales, imposing a 1 percent fee after that on the conversion of bitcoin into local currency. Circle said it had not settled on pricing for merchants, but that it would charge them a fee to use its system that would be well below credit card transaction costs.
如果商户接受比特币作为支付手段的话，费用一般在0到不到2%之间，因为这项技术本质上是开放的。比方说，克银贝斯就表示，对于商户的头一百万美元销售额，他们不收取任何费用；一百万以上，他们会在比特币、本地货币的兑换时收取1%的费用。互联网金融圈则表示，他们还没有决定向商户收取费率，虽然使用他们的系统需要收费，但是费率要远低于信用卡的交易成本。
Mr. Allaire and others predict that merchants will encourage customers to spend bitcoin by passing some of the savings on to them in the form of lower prices or other rewards.
奥莱尔等人预测，商户将会鼓励消费者使用比特币，将节省下来的交易费用以降价或者其他回馈方式酬宾。
“Bitcoin definitely addresses a need,” said Simon Johnson, a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management. “The payments industry is ready to be disrupted.”
西蒙·约翰逊(Simon Johnson)是麻省理工学院斯隆商学院的教授。他说，“比特币肯定瞄准了某些需求。支付行业看来要有新的搅局者了。”