RIO DE JANEIRO — After a long day trying to set world records, win a medal or just finish a strenuous event, even the world’s top athletes want to unwind.
里约热内卢——在漫长的一天里，运动员们努力地想要创造世界记录、拿奖牌或只是完成一个艰苦的比赛项目。这一天结束后，即便是全球顶级运动员也会想要放松一下。
But with night life options lacking at the futuristic towers of the Olympic Village, many competitors opt for the short stroll to a watering hole with a curious name: the Bar do Bin Laden.
但在奥运村的未来派建筑里，夜生活选择有限。在这种情况下，很多运动员选择走一小段路，去一家名字奇怪的豪饮之处：本·拉登酒吧(Bar do Bin Laden)。
Yes, it’s named after Osama bin Laden, the founder of Al Qaeda, but not because of any extremist fervor. Instead, it’s a nod to the appearance of the bar’s long-bearded owner, who bears a resemblance to the mastermind of the devastating 2001 attacks on American soil.
是的，它是以基地组织(Al Qaeda)的创始人奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)命名的，但并不是出于任何极端主义狂热。相反，它反映的是留着长胡子的酒吧老板的外貌。他长得有点像在幕后策划了2001年美国境内遭受的毁灭性袭击的那个人。
“After Sept. 11, everyone starting calling me Bin Laden for obvious reasons,” said the owner, José Felipe de Araújo. “The nickname stuck, so I decided to use it to my advantage.”
“9·11以后，所有人都开始叫我本·拉登，原因很明显，”酒吧老板若泽·费利佩·德阿劳若(José Felipe de Araújo)说。“这个绰号一直这么叫着，于是我决定让它为我所用。”
Mr. Araújo, 60, a former manual laborer who opened his establishment more than a decade ago, receives thirsty customers from around the globe with a warm welcome, plates of grilled sirloin, pizzas and tall bottles of Antarctica beer served “stupidly cold,” as is the custom in Rio de Janeiro, the first city in South America to host the Olympics.
阿劳若曾是一名体力劳动者。十多年前，他开了这家店。现年60岁的他会热情地欢迎来自世界各地想喝点东西的顾客。他会奉上一盘又一盘烤牛腰肉和披萨，并按照里约热内卢的习惯端上“透心凉”的南极洲牌(Antarctica)瓶装啤酒。这里是南美洲首座举办奥运会的城市。
Curiously, the decidedly unkempt Bar do Bin Laden here in Rio’s distant suburbs, where dozens of patrons gather until past midnight during the Games, isn’t the only saloon in Brazil named for the Saudi who was hunted down and killed in Pakistan in 2011.
位于里约远郊的本·拉登酒吧看起来乱糟糟的。奥运会期间，会有数十名顾客聚集在这里，待到午夜过后。离奇的是，它并非巴西唯一一个以那名遭到追捕并最终于2011年在巴基斯坦被击毙的沙特阿拉伯人命名的酒吧。
Another Bar do Bin Laden attracts a heavily pierced clientele in downtown São Paulo. The Bin Laden Espetinhos Bar serves up skewers of meat in Belo Horizonte. Deep in the backlands of Pernambuco State in the northeast, in the city of Salgueiro, a Bin Laden bar serves delicacies like torresmo, freshly fried pork crackling.
圣保罗闹市区的另一家本·拉登酒吧吸引了大批身体上有穿孔的顾客。贝洛奥里藏特市的本·拉登烤串酒吧(Bin Laden Espetinhos Bar)供应肉串。在巴西东北部伯南布哥州的腹地萨尔盖鲁市，一家本·拉登酒吧供应各种美食，如现炸猪皮torresmo。
Though reviled in much of the West, the Bin Laden name generally does not carry the same stigma in Brazil, a country that has been spared the large-scale terrorist attacks that have horrified many other parts of the world. A sense of rebellion and defiance might also play into the proliferation of the Bin Laden phenomenon.
在西方众多地区，本·拉登这个名字是诅咒的对象。但巴西没发生过让世界其他很多地方陷入恐惧的那类大规模恐怖袭击，于是它并没有带上极端负面的含义。一种叛逆和反抗感可能也促进了本·拉登现象的扩散。
One of Brazil’s most popular funk singers is named – you guessed it – MC Bin Laden.
巴西最火的放克歌手之一就叫——大家已经猜到了吧——MC本·拉登(MC Bin Laden)。
For his part, Mr. Araújo, clad informally in denim shorts and sandals, proudly said that his clients came from around the world, reflecting a broad range of nationalities and political and religious beliefs. Officially, his establishment is called Pizzeria Specialle, but asking for directions using that name elicits empty stares in the neighborhood where he lives with his wife and five children.
随意地穿着牛仔短裤和凉鞋的阿劳若自豪地说，他的顾客来自世界各地，国籍和政治宗教信仰各异。这家店的正式名字叫不一样的披萨店(Pizzeria Specialle)，但在阿劳若夫妇及五个孩子居住的社区里，用这个名字问路只会让对方茫然地看着你。
“This is the Bar do Bin Laden,” he proclaimed as he grilled steaks for his signature dish, a mountain of food on a plate that includes rice, beans, pasta and meat. It goes for about $4.40, a fraction of the cost of eating at one of more upscale restaurants near the Olympic venues. One evening this week, South African, Slovenian, Korean and Ukrainian visitors nursed beers near the billiards tables, alongside construction workers scarfing down Mr. Araújo’s food.
“这里叫本·拉登酒吧，”他一边为自家的招牌菜烤着牛排一边说。这道菜盘子里堆的食物像一座小山似的，里面有米饭、豆类、意面和肉。一份售价约为4.40美元，只相当于在奥运场馆附近更高端一些的餐厅吃一顿饭花费的零头。本周的一个傍晚，来自南非、斯洛文尼亚、韩国和乌克兰的顾客在台球桌旁边慢慢地品尝啤酒，身旁的建筑工人则对着阿劳若烹制的食物狼吞虎咽。
“The Olympic Village gets boring and the food is somewhat, well, monotonous,” said Carlos Vizcaino Sánchez, 48, a Cuban émigré who coaches track and field athletes in the Seychelles, the 115-island country in the Indian Ocean.
“奥运村变得无聊了，吃的也有些单调，”塞舌尔田径教练、48岁的古巴人卡洛斯·比斯凯诺·桑切斯(Carlos Vizcaino Sánchez)说。塞舌尔位于印度洋上，由115座岛屿组成。
“I never thought I’d find Bin Laden in Rio, but here he is,” said Mr. Sánchez as he sipped a beer. “I’m glad to have encountered this piece of the real Brazil.”
“我从来没想到会在里约发现本·拉登，但他就这里，”桑切斯一边小口喝着啤酒一边说。“我很高兴偶遇了这个能体现真实巴西的地方。”