WASHINGTON — U.S. drones were devastating the upper ranks of al-Qaida, his men were killing suspected spies, and Osama bin Laden wondered: Could an Iranian dentist have planted a tracking device in his wife's tooth?
华盛顿——美国无人机正对基地组织(al-Qaida)的高层造成重创，他的部下在杀死可疑的间谍，而奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)想知道：伊朗牙医是否在他妻子的牙里种植了跟踪装置？
“The size of the chip is about the length of a grain of wheat and the width of a fine piece of vermicelli,” he wrote, using the nom de guerre Abu Abdallah.
“芯片的长度约为一粒麦子，宽约一片细粉条，”他用化名阿布·阿卜杜拉(Abu Abdallah)写道。
A few paragraphs later, bin Laden signs off and then adds, “Please destroy this letter after reading it.”
再写了几个段落后，本·拉登在文末署了名，然后补充了一句，“看完后请销毁这封信。”
The letter was among thousands of pages of documents and other materials seized by Navy SEALs during the raid on bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, in May 2011, and it was declassified Tuesday with 112 other pieces of writings and letters found in the al-Qaida leader's hideout.
2011年5月，美军海豹突击队(Navy SEAL)突袭了本·拉登在巴基斯坦阿伯塔巴德的住宅，在那里搜获了成千上万页的文件等资料，而这封信正是其中之一。本周二，这封信与其他112件在这名基地组织领导人藏身之处发现的文件和信函一同解密。
U.S. officials have said that the intelligence seized by the SEALs during the raid included letters, spreadsheets, books and pornography. Yet only a fraction of the materials have been made public — Tuesday's release was the second set of documents from the raid to be declassified — and experts have cautioned against drawing broad conclusions until there is more.
美国官方表示，袭击过程中海豹突击队搜获的文件包括信件、表格、书籍和色情作品。然而，这些材料只有一小部分公开了——周二公布的是第二批解密的搜获文件——而专家们告诫，在获得更多资料前不要得出大的结论。
The bulk of the materials released Tuesday come from the last decade of bin Laden's life, and include letters to lieutenants and loved ones, drafts of speeches he was preparing to release and stray bits of operational minutia. Though there do not appear to be any major revelations, the materials provide a glimpse of bin Laden's thinking and his struggle to keep al-Qaida's main branch and its offshoots in line as U.S. drones killed the group's senior leaders and demoralized its foot soldiers.
周二公布的材料大部分来自本·拉登生命的最后10年，包括给手下和亲人写的信、他准备发布的演讲稿和零星的行动细节。虽然里面看来没有任何重大的揭秘，这些材料也可以让人们一瞥本·拉登的思想，以及在美国无人机追杀该组织高层领导并造成武装人员士气低落之时，他在维持基地组织主要分支和旁系时经历的挣扎。
An undated will that bin Laden is believed to have written by hand in the late 1990s was included in the documents released Tuesday.
周二公布的文件中有一份是未注明日期的遗嘱，据信是本·拉登在90年代末手写的。
In it, Bin Laden reviewed his finances, saying he had received $12 million from one of his brothers and that he had $29 million in Sudan, where he lived from 1991 to 1996. If he was killed, he wrote, he hoped his family would “spend all the money that I have left in Sudan on Jihad.”
在这份遗嘱中，本·拉登回顾了自己的财务状况，说从他的一个兄弟处收到了1200万美元，在苏丹还有2900万美元——1991年到1996年间他在那里生活。他写到，如果遇害，希望家人将“我留在苏丹的钱都花在圣战上。”
A senior intelligence official, who the CIA insisted speak on the condition of anonymity, said the agency did not know what became of the money, or if any of it remained at the time of bin Laden's death. But the will, the official said, was probably important to bin Laden, because he carried it with him for years.
中央情报局(CIA)的一名高级情报官员称，该机构不知道这笔钱的下落，或者在本·拉登死亡时它是否还存在。但此人表示，这份遗嘱大概对本·拉登很重要，因为他随身携带了多年。按照中情局坚持的规则，这名官员要求不具名。
The fixation on the possibility of his own premature death, and the fear of the U.S. efforts to track him and kill him, is a theme that surfaces again and again. In one letter, bin Laden warns that a suitcase used to deliver a ransom could contain a tracking device.
对自己早逝可能性的纠结以及对美国努力追杀他的忧虑，是一再浮现的主题。本·拉登在一封信中警告，一个用来交付赎金的旅行箱可能包含跟踪装置。
Even people presenting themselves as friends were not trusted. In another letter, which does not appear to have been written by bin Laden, the author relates that a Qatari diplomat visited al-Qaida members in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, and brought gifts, including a “huge” watch.
即使以朋友姿态出现的人也不受信任。在另一封似乎不是本·拉登本人写的信中，作者提到了一名卡塔尔外交官拜访了阿富汗贾拉拉巴德的基地组织成员，并带来了礼物，其中包括一块“硕大”的手表。
But after the diplomat left, a militant identified by the pseudonym Abu Umamah took the watch and “smashed it with a hammer” because he was afraid of it.
但在这名外交官离开后，化名阿布·乌马麦(Abu Umamah)的激进分子拿走了手表并“用锤子砸碎了它”，因为手表让他感到害怕。
The latest documents include new details of bin Laden's apparent struggle to impose bureaucratic uniformity across his terrorist network, including an educational syllabus for new fighters.
这批最新公布的文件包括本·拉登努力在他的恐怖网络推行统一管理的新细节，包括对新战士的教育大纲。
Titled a “Course of Islamic Study for Soldiers and Members,” it includes a list of subjects and skills to be taught. (No. 1 is reading and writing.) There is also a reading list of mostly books about Islam as well as lectures ranging from the history of jihad in the Horn of Africa to “a brief word on raising children.”
这个大纲为《武装人员和普通成员伊斯兰研究课程》(Course of Islamic Study for Soldiers and Members)，其中包括要教的科目和技能列表。（列首位的是阅读和写作。）还有一个阅读书目，大部分是关于伊斯兰教的书籍和演讲，话题多种多样，从非洲之角的圣战历史到“抚养孩子的简单说明”。
Bin Laden, who considered himself a student of history, tended to view events through a conspiratorial lens that often distorted his conclusions. The documents made clear, for example, that he believed the West, and the United States in particular, was controlled by a Jewish cabal.
本·拉登自认为学历史出身，却往往通过阴谋论来看待事物，经常会得出歪曲的结论。例如，这些文件清楚地表明，他认为西方，特别是美国，都处在犹太小集团的控制之下。
But bin Laden did not reject all things Western. One document released Tuesday outlines the structure of a “chief of staff committee” replicating the structure of a military command staff that originated in 19th century France and is now used by almost all NATO members, including the United States.
但是，本·拉登并没有拒绝所有的西方事物。周二公布的一份文件勾勒出“参谋长委员会”的构架。它复制了起源于19世纪的法国并且现在几乎所有北约成员国都在使用的一套军事指挥人员结构，美国也不例外。
The various branches of the staff are laid out numerically, much like the Pentagon. No. 1 is personnel, No. 2 is intelligence and No. 3 is operations. No. 4 is logistics, or what the al-Qaida document calls its “provisions and supplies wing.” The unidentified author added al-Qaida's own No. 5 role, which could be translated as a morals branch.
各部门按数字安排，与五角大楼很类似。1号代表人力资源，2号代表情报部门，3号代表执行部门。4号代表后勤，用基地组织文件的用语则是“供应和补给部门”。身份不明的作者增加了基地组织自己创立的5号部门，可以被翻译成道德分支。