Osama bin Laden lived unmolested in Pakistan for almost a decade because of the “collective incompetence and negligence” of the country’s security forces, according to a scathing Pakistani government report that was leaked to the news media on Monday.
周一，一份措辞严厉的巴基斯坦政府报告被泄露给媒体，文中称，奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之所以在巴基斯坦不受干扰地生活了近十年，是因为该国安全部门的“集体无能和失职”。
The four-member Abbottabad Commission, led by a Supreme Court judge, interviewed 201 people, including the country’s intelligence leaders, in an effort to piece together the events around the American raid on May 2, 2011, that killed Bin Laden, the leader of Al Qaeda, and embarrassed the Pakistani government.
“阿伯塔巴德委员会”(Abbottabad Commission)由四名成员组成，牵头的是一名最高法院法官。委员会与201人进行了面谈，其中包括巴基斯坦情报部门的领导层成员，旨在尽力还原本·拉登身亡前后的事件。2011年5月2日，美国实施突袭，击毙了基地组织(Al Qaeda)领导人本·拉登，让巴基斯坦政府十分难堪。
But although the commission’s report was completed six months ago, the Pakistani authorities suppressed it, and the first leaked copy was made public by Al Jazeera on Monday.
尽管委员会的报告六个月前就已完成，但巴基斯坦当局将之封杀。本周一，报告的首个泄露副本被半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)公诸于众。
The broadcaster published the 336-page report on its Web site, while acknowledging that there was one omission — a page of testimony from a Pakistani spy chief that appeared to describe elements of Pakistan’s security cooperation with the United States.
半岛电视台在其网站上公布了这份长达336页的报告，并承认有一处删节。未公布的这页内容是一名巴基斯坦情报部门负责人的证词，其中似乎描述了巴基斯坦与美国在安全领域进行合作的一些情况。
Hours later, Pakistan’s telecom regulatory blocked access to Al Jazeera’s Web site inside Pakistan.
数小时后，巴基斯坦电信监管部门封锁了该国境内对半岛电视台网站的访问。
In some ways, the commission, led by Supreme Court judges, hewed to expectations. In its findings, it leaned toward incompetence rather than conspiracy in explaining Pakistan’s failure to catch Bin Laden after he arrived in the country in mid-2002, having fled the American assault at Tora Bora in Afghanistan.
在某些方面，由最高法院法官牵头的这个委员会符合外界的预期。本·拉登逃脱美国对阿富汗托拉博拉的袭击后，于2002年中抵达巴基斯坦。调查结果在解释巴基斯坦未能将其抓获的原因时，倾向于认为是无能，而非共谋。
But in other ways, the report was a surprise. It contained flashes of visceral skepticism about the testimony of key government officials, noted that key questions remained unanswered, and allowed for the possibility that some security officials had covertly helped Bin Laden.
不过在另外一些方面，调查报告出人预料。文中闪现了对主要政府官员证词的严重怀疑，提及有些关键问题悬而未决，并考虑到了一些安全官员暗中协助本·拉登的可能性。
“Connivance, collaboration and cooperation at some levels cannot be entirely discounted,” it said.
“不能完全排除在某些层面存在纵容、协助和合作的情况，”文中写道。
The report offered tantalizing new details about life on the run for Bin Laden, as he shifted among six addresses in Pakistan from 2002 to 2011, when his American pursuers finally caught up with him. At times the Qaeda leader is said to have shaved his beard and worn a cowboy hat to avoid detection by Pakistani or American forces.
报告为本·拉登的逃亡生涯提供了引人入胜的新细节。2002年到2011年期间，他在巴基斯坦换了六处藏身地，直到最终被美国追踪者击毙。据说，这名基地组织领导人有时会剃掉胡须并戴上牛仔帽，以免被巴方和美方发现。
Once, a vehicle he was riding in was stopped for speeding, but the police officer failed to recognize him and let him go.
有一次，他乘坐的一辆车因超速被拦下，但警察未能认出他，因而放他走掉。
The report also took Pakistani officials to task for failing to shut down Central Intelligence Agency operations in the country, and variously portrayed American actions as illegal or immoral. It said the C.I.A. had used mainstream aid agencies as cover to spy on the Qaeda leader, employed “hired thugs” and grossly deceived its allies in the Pakistani government.
报告还认为，巴基斯坦官方应为未能阻止美国中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)的巴基斯坦行动负责，并在文中多次将美国的行动描绘成非法的或不道德的。报告称，中情局利用主流援助机构作掩护来刺探本·拉登的情报、雇用“打手”，并且极大地欺骗了在巴基斯坦政府中的盟友。
“The U.S. acted like a criminal thug,” the report said.
“美国就像恶棍一样行事，”文中写道。
For all its untempered language and institutional constraints, the report offered the most comprehensive official account yet of Bin Laden’s time on the run in Pakistan and the American Navy SEALs raid that took his life.
尽管报告的语言未经锤炼，且受到制度上的限制，报告还是向外界提供了关于此事的最全面的官方信息，叙述了本·拉登在巴基斯坦境内的逃亡情况和美国海军海豹突击队击毙本·拉登的行动。
The four-member commission was led by Justice Javed Iqbal of the Supreme Court, a retired police officer, a diplomat and an army general. It first met in July 2011, two months after the American raid, and has held 52 hearings and conducted seven field visits.
四人委员会由最高法院法官、退休警官、外交官和军队将领贾韦德·伊克巴尔(Javed Iqbal)牵头。在本·拉登被美军击毙两个月后，委员会于2011年7月首次聚头，自那以后共举行了52场听证会，并进行了7次实地调查。
American officials did not cooperate with the commission, and on Monday, Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman, declined to comment on the report. One senior American official who follows Pakistan said he had not yet read a copy of the commission’s voluminous report, but he said that from summaries he had seen, the document appeared to offer “the Pakistan people some accounting of how Bin Laden came to end up where he did.”
美国官方没有和委员会合作，国务院发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)在周一拒绝就报告发表评论。一名关注巴基斯坦的美国高官表示，他还没来得及阅读该委员会的长篇报告，但他说，就他读过的报告总结来看，该报告似乎“向巴基斯坦人民解释了本·拉登是怎样在该国逗留并最终被击毙的”。
In many places, the Pakistani report seems to seethe with frustration at the failures of Pakistani officials to find Bin Laden before the Americans could get to him.
这份巴基斯坦报告似乎在很多地方都对巴基斯坦官员表示不满，因为他们未能赶在美国之前发现本·拉登。
It highlighted inept border officials who allowed one of his wives to pass into Iran, inept municipal officials who failed to spot the unusual construction at his house, intelligence officials who hoarded information, and senior police officials who it deemed guilty of a “grave dereliction of duty.”
报告对以下人员进行了突出描述：不称职的边境官员，他们放过了本·拉登的一名妻子，让她进入了伊朗；不称职的市政官员，他们未能发觉本·拉登的藏身之地在进行不寻常的建筑活动；搁置大量信息的情报官员；以及被称为“严重玩忽职守”的高级警官。
The commission interviewed military officials who failed to detect American aircraft entering Pakistani airspace, and it noted that on the night of May 2, the first Pakistani fighter jets were scrambled 24 minutes after the Americans had left Pakistan with Bin Laden’s body on board.
委员会与未能发现美国飞机进入巴基斯坦领空的军方官员进行了面谈，并指出，5月2日晚间，在运载着本·拉登尸体的美国飞机离开巴基斯坦领空24分钟后，该国第一批战斗机才紧急出动。
“The extent of incompetence, to put it mildly, was astounding, if not unbelievable,” the report said.
“婉转地说，这种无能程度若不让人难以置信，至少是令人震惊的，”报告称。
The missing page of testimony from the leaked version published by Al Jazeera related to General Pasha’s testimony. Al Jazeera noted on its Web site that, judging from the context, the missing material appeared to contain a list of seven demands the country’s military leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, made to the United States after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
在半岛电视台发布的泄露版报告中，缺失页和中将艾哈迈德·舒亚·帕沙(Ahmed Shuja Pasha)的证词有关。半岛在其官网上指出，根据上下文，缺失的信息似乎包含该国军方领导人佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫上将(Pervez Musharraf)在2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击后向美国提出的七项要求。
Pakistani government officials did not comment on the veracity of the Al Jazeera report.
巴基斯坦政府官员没有对半岛报告的真实性发表言论。
Also on Monday, The Associated Press reported that the top United States Special Operations commander had ordered military files about the Bin Laden raid to be purged from Defense Department computers and sent to the C.I.A., where they could be more easily shielded from public scrutiny.
美联社(The Associated Press)也在周一报道，美国特种作战部队的最高指挥官曾命令删除国防部电脑上有关本·拉登袭击行动的军事文件，并把这些文件交给中情局，这样就能更容易地避开公众审查。