NEW YORK — More than a dozen years after the Sept. 11 attacks, a man who came to speak for Osama bin Laden in a series of impassioned videotaped messages that praised the attacks and promised more, was convicted by a federal jury on Wednesday of conspiring to kill Americans and of other terrorism charges.
纽约——在9·11事件过去十多年后，联邦陪审团于本周三判定一名在一系列慷慨激昂的录像讲话中为奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)辩护的男子密谋杀害美国人，并犯下了其他恐怖主义罪行。这些录像讲话称赞了袭击行动，并承诺采取更多行动。
The defendant, Sulaiman Abu Ghaith, was the most senior Bin Laden confederate to be tried in a civilian court in the United States since Sept. 11, and his swift conviction on all counts would seem to serve as a rejoinder to critics of the Obama administration’s efforts to try suspected terrorists in civilian courts, rather than before a military tribunal.
被告苏莱曼·阿布·盖斯(Sulaiman Abu Ghaith)是自9·11事件以来在美国民事法庭接受审判的最高级别的本·拉登同谋，法院快速判定他全部罪名成立，此举似乎驳斥了相关批评——奥巴马政府应该在军事法庭而不是民事法庭审判恐怖嫌疑犯。
“It was appropriate that this defendant, who publicly rejoiced over the attacks on the World Trade Center, faced trial in the shadow of where those buildings once stood,” the United States attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., said in a statement.
美国司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)在一份声明中表示，“这名公开庆贺针对世贸中心(World Trade Center)的袭击行动的被告在该建筑旧址附近接受审讯非常合适。”
Citing the success of the civilian courts in “hundreds of other cases involving terrorism defendants,” he added, “it would be a good thing for the country if this case has the result of putting that political debate to rest.”
他提到了民事法庭在“数以百计的涉及恐怖主义被告的案件中”取得成功，并称“如果该案最终能中止相关政治争论，那对这个国家会是一件好事。”
The verdict, returned after six hours of deliberations, comes a little more than a year after Mr. Abu Ghaith, a son-in-law of Bin Laden, was turned over to United States authorities in Jordan and flown to New York to face charges. The trial lasted three weeks.
法院在经过六个小时的审议之后作出裁决，一年多前，本·拉登的女婿阿布·盖斯在约旦被移交给美国当局，并通过飞机被押解至纽约接受指控。审讯持续了三周。
The decision to prosecute Mr. Abu Ghaith in federal court reignited the debate over whether international terrorists should be placed in military custody and sent to the United States naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.
通过联邦法院起诉阿布·盖斯的决定再次引发了相关争论，即国际恐怖主义分子是否应该遭到军事关押，并被送往美国位于古巴关塔那摩湾的海军基地。
Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina who sharply criticized that decision, said that while he was pleased with the verdict, he still believed Mr. Abu Ghaith should have been held by the military “as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes.”
南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)强烈批评这一决定，称虽然他对判决感到满意，但他仍然认为，“出于对情报收集的考虑，”应该把阿布·盖斯当作“敌方作战人员”，对他进行军事关押。
Nonetheless, the successful prosecution of Mr. Abu Ghaith could further smooth the way for the Justice Department to pursue the cases of other suspected terrorists in federal court if they are captured; for example, Ayman al-Zawahri, the current leader of Al Qaeda, remains under indictment in Manhattan.
尽管如此，阿布·盖斯案件的成功可能会进一步为司法部铺平道路——如果其他恐怖嫌疑分子被逮捕，就可以在联邦法院提起诉讼，例如，被曼哈顿提起诉讼的基地组织现任头目艾曼·扎瓦希里(Ayman al-Zawahiri)。
Mr. Abu Ghaith, a 48-year-old Kuwaiti-born cleric known for his fiery oratory, was so trusted by Bin Laden that on the night of Sept. 11, the Qaeda leader invited him to his remote Afghan cave.
阿布·盖斯出生在科威特，这名48岁的传教士以其狂热的演讲而闻名，基地组织头目本·拉登非常信任他，因此曾在9月11日晚上邀请他前往一个位于阿富汗偏远地区的山洞。
“He said, ‘Come in, sit down.’ He said, ‘Did you learn about what happened?’ ” Mr. Abu Ghaith testified at the trial. “He said, ‘We are the ones who did it.’ ”
“他说，‘进来，坐下。’他说，‘你知道发生什么事情了吗？’”阿布·盖斯在接受审判期间作证称。“他说，‘是我们干的。’”
The next day, at Bin Laden’s request, Mr. Abu Ghaith issued the first of a series of videotaped statements that helped Bin Laden spread his global message of terror, energize Qaeda fighters and recruit new ones, prosecutors told the jury.
检察官告诉陪审团，第二天，阿布·盖斯应本·拉登的要求，发布了一系列录像讲话中的第一段录像，这些录像帮助本·拉登向全球传播恐怖信息，以激励基地组织的作战人员，和招募新成员。
Mr. Abu Ghaith has not been accused of having a role in the plot to attack the World Trade Center or of knowing about it. But when asked by a prosecutor if he “knew something big was coming from Al Qaeda,” he responded, “Yes.”
检方没有指控阿布·盖斯曾参与策划袭击世贸中心，或提前知晓这一阴谋。但当一名检察官问他是否“知道基地组织将做件大事”时，他回答，“是的”。
He was convicted on three counts: conspiracy to kill Americans, for which he could face life in prison; and providing material support to terrorists and conspiring to do so; each of those counts carries a maximum term of 15 years. The judge, Lewis A. Kaplan, said the defendant would be sentenced on Sept. 8.
法院判定阿布·盖斯的三项罪名成立：密谋杀害美国人，他可能会因此面临终身监禁；为恐怖分子提供实质支持，以及为此进行合谋；每一项罪名都会面临最多15年的监禁。法官路易斯·A·卡普兰(Lewis A. Kaplan)表示，被告将于9月8日接受判决。
Mr. Abu Ghaith, who used an Arabic interpreter in Federal District Court in Manhattan, appeared impassive as the judge’s deputy clerk, Andrew Mohan, read the verdict aloud, repeating “guilty” three times.
阿布·盖斯在曼哈顿联邦地区法院(Federal District Court)接受审讯时现场有阿拉伯语翻译，当法官的副助理安德鲁·莫汉(Andrew Mohan)大声宣读判决，三次提到“罪名成立”时，阿布·盖斯看似面无表情。
Mr. Abu Ghaith’s lead lawyer, Stanley L. Cohen, said later that his client was stoic and “at ease.”
阿布·盖斯的首席律师斯坦利·L·科恩(Stanley L. Cohen)随后表示，他的委托人对结果泰然处之，很“平静”。
“He has confidence that this is not the end but the beginning,” Mr. Cohen said, adding that there were “a number of compelling issues” for appeal.
“他相信这不是结束而是开始，”科恩说，并表示有“很多强有力的理由”支持上诉。
Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said, “Like the others who have faced terrorism charges in Manhattan’s federal courthouse before him, Abu Ghaith received a fair trial, after which a unanimous jury rendered its verdict, justly holding him accountable for his crimes.”
纽约南区联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)表示，“与之前在曼哈顿联邦法院面临恐怖主义指控的人一样，阿布·盖斯得到了公正的审判，陪审团一致作出这一判决，公正地让他为自己的罪行负责。”
“We hope this verdict brings some small measure of comfort to the families of the victims of Al Qaeda’s murderous designs,” Mr. Bharara added.
巴拉拉还表示，“我们希望裁决会给基地组织的杀戮计划受害者的家属带来一丝慰藉。”