LOS ANGELES — THE physicist Richard Feynman liked to gripe about what he called “Alfred Nobel’s Other Mistake.” The first mistake was the invention of dynamite. The second was creating the Nobel Prizes. Mr. Feynman thought it was ridiculous that something as material as a cash prize should be awarded to something as grand and open-ended as scientific research. (The griping wasn’t a matter of sour grapes; Mr. Feynman shared a well-deserved prize for physics in 1965.) This year’s physics Nobel has just been awarded to François Englert and Peter Higgs, for what is simply called “the Higgs mechanism.” But while Mr. Englert and Mr. Higgs undoubtedly deserve acclaim, bestowing an award on them alone distorts the nature of modern physics research.
洛杉矶——物理学家理查德·费曼(Richard Feynman)喜欢抱怨“阿尔弗雷德·诺贝尔(Alfred Nobel)的第二个错误”。第一个错误是发明了黄色炸药。第二个错误是设立了诺贝尔奖(Nobel Prizes)。费曼认为，诺贝尔奖是荒唐的，它把现金奖励这种物质化的东西，颁给科学研究这样伟大而永无止境的事业。（这个牢骚和酸葡萄心理无关；他实至名归地分享了1965年的诺贝尔物理学奖）。今年的物理学奖刚刚颁发，获奖者是弗朗索瓦·恩格勒(François Englert)和彼得·希格斯(Peter Higgs)，他们因为发表了被称为“希格斯机制”的理论而获此殊荣。话说回来，尽管恩格勒和希格斯获奖当之无愧，然而把这一奖项仅仅授予他们二人，却扭曲了当代物理学研究的本质。
In the early 1960s, physicists were struggling to understand the forces at work inside the nucleus of an atom. Their paradigm was electromagnetism. But electromagnetism is a long-range force — we notice it when we attach a magnet to a refrigerator. Nuclear forces, in contrast, are noticeable only on subatomic scales.
20世纪60年代初，物理学家苦苦求索，想探知在原子核内作用的力。他们的范式是电磁力。可是，电磁力是一种长距离的力——当我们把一枚磁铁贴到冰箱上，会注意到它的存在。与之形成对照的是，只有在亚原子尺度内，人们才能察觉到核力。
The question, then, was how to construct a theoretical model for a force that would be like electromagnetism, but that doesn’t stretch over long distances.
随后的问题是，怎样为一种类似于电磁力、但却不延伸至长距离的力构筑一个理论模型？
It’s a knottier problem than it first appears, and to solve it Mr. Englert and Mr. Higgs made a dramatic suggestion. They posited that empty space is filled with an invisible field — now called the Higgs field — that absorbs the lines of force, much as water vapor will absorb light from a lantern on a foggy night. To prove the field exists, they posited that if we poked it, it would start vibrating. According to the rules of quantum mechanics, when we look at those vibrations in a detector we will see them as individual particles — Higgs bosons.
这个问题比其最初给人的印象更为棘手，为了解决它，恩格勒和希格斯提出了一个惊人的假设。他们假设，宇宙空间充满看不见的场（现在被称作希格斯场），它吸收力线，就像雾气蒙蒙的夜晚，水蒸气会吸收灯笼的光线那样。为了证明这个场的存在，他们假设，如果我们搅动它，它会开始振动。根据量子力学的原理，当我们通过探测器观察这种振动时，我们会看到它们以单个粒子的形式呈现——这就是希格斯波色子(Higgs bosons)。
Easier said than done. The Higgs mechanism was proposed on the basis of imagination and rigorous thinking, with only crude guidance from experimental data. Finally, in 2012 — after 48 years, billions of dollars and the work of thousands of talented experimental physicists — we finally saw a tiny bump in data plots obtained at the Large Hadron Collider outside Geneva. That bump, evidence that the collider was producing Higgs bosons, was an amazing vindication of the work of Mr. Englert and Mr. Higgs years before.
说起来容易做起来难。希格斯机制的提出，是以想象和严谨的思维为基础的，实验数据只提供了粗略的指引。过去48年里，各方为验证这个假设耗费了数十亿美元，数千名才华横溢的实验物理学家做出了贡献。2012年，我们终于在日内瓦郊外的大型强子对撞机(Large Hadron Collider)产生的数据图中，看到一个小小的突起。这个突起便是对撞机正在产生希格斯波色子的证据，它神奇地验证了恩格勒和希格斯多年前的研究成果。
Except that it wasn’t only Mr. Englert and Mr. Higgs. Like many ideas in physics, the Higgs mechanism came together with contributions from many different people, including renowned physicists like Philip Anderson, Robert Brout, Gerald Guralnik, Richard Hagen and Tom Kibble. But only Mr. Englert and Mr. Higgs are sharing the Nobel.
只是，这不仅仅是恩格勒和希格斯的研究成果。和物理学的许多设想一样，希格斯机制与许多人做出的贡献密不可分，其中包括菲利普·安德森(Philip Anderson)、罗伯特·布绕特(Robert Brout)、杰拉尔德·古拉尔尼克(Gerald Guralnik)、理查德·哈根(Richard Hagen)和汤姆·基布尔(Tom Kibble)等知名物理学家。可是，只有恩格勒和希格斯分享了诺贝尔奖。
Mr. Anderson’s model was the first and least well developed; he also is already a Nobel Laureate for unrelated work, which may have made his case seem less pressing. Mr. Brout died in 2011, and the Nobel is never awarded posthumously. Mr. Guralnik, Mr. Hagen and Mr. Kibble had perhaps the most comprehensive picture of the Higgs mechanism, but their paper was written a few months after those of Mr. Englert and Mr. Brout (who were lifelong collaborators) and Mr. Higgs.
安德森的模型是第一个，也是构建得最不完善的一个；他也曾因为无关的成果而获得诺贝尔奖，这也许意味着不考虑他的贡献还算情有可原。布绕特于2011年去世，而诺贝尔奖不颁发给已故的人士。古拉尔尼克、哈根和基布尔也许对希格斯机制的论述最全面，可是，他们的论文比恩格勒、布绕特（他俩终生是合作者）和希格斯晚了几个月。
Why not give it to them all? Because there is a tradition that the science prizes are given to individuals, not to collaborations — and to no more than three individuals in any one year.
为什么不把诺贝尔奖颁给他们所有人呢？因为按照传统，科学奖项只颁给个人，而不是一群合作者——而且每一年的获奖者不超过三人。
That tradition needs to end. Science has always been an intensely collaborative pursuit, and prizes to individuals are rarely able to capture the full nuance of the historical reality. In the modern era, when communication between scientists anywhere on earth is instantaneous and effortless, collaborations are growing larger and more central to the scientific enterprise. Like the government shutdown, the no-more-than-three-winners rule is a self-imposed problem that could be easily solved, if we chose to do so.
这项传统需要被终结。科学一直是一项合作密集型的事业，对个人的奖励极少能够捕捉到历史现实的方方面面。当今时代，全球各地科学家之间的沟通如此迅捷、简便，合作的规模正越变越大，并日益成为科学事业的中心。和政府停摆一样，获奖者不能过三的原则是个自找的问题，可以轻松解决——只要我们选择这么做。
The conundrum is even sharper when it comes to the other Higgs researchers who deserve their own prize — the physicists who actually found the particle.
考虑到另一批值得获奖的希格斯研究者，即发现了这种粒子的物理学家们，这个问题更加严重。
The invention of the Higgs mechanism was a triumph of human creativity, reasoning from subtle mathematical clues to a fundamental ingredient of how nature works. The L.H.C., the most complicated machine ever built, is a similar monument to the curiosity of our species. The scientists who put it together come from more than 100 countries, united by the common goal of discovering new truths about the universe.
希格斯机制从一些细小的数学线索推理出宇宙运行的根本要素之一，它的发明堪称对人类创造性的赞歌。L.H.C.是人类有史以来打造的最复杂机器，堪称人类求知欲的纪念碑。组装这台机器的科学家们来自100多个国家，他们拥有一个共同的目标，那就是发现新的宇宙真理。
Two experiments at the L.H.C. independently announced evidence for the Higgs boson on July 4, 2012, and both experimental collaborations have more than 3,000 members. Without their hard work, nobody would be talking about which theorists should share the Nobel. But institutions can’t win the prize, and there’s no way to pick out three individuals from these enormous teams without doing a great disservice to the other members.
2012年7月4日，通过大型强子对撞机进行的两项独立实验，都发现了希格斯玻色子存在的证据，这两个实验团队的成员都超过3000人。没有他们的辛勤工作，哪个理论物理学家该获得诺贝尔奖就无从谈起。但诺贝尔科学奖项不能颁给机构，也不可能从这些庞大的团队中选出三个人，因为这样对其他人不公平。
I’m not suggesting that 6,000 people should each receive a Nobel Prize. Rather, this year’s award highlights the basic flaw with science awards themselves: there is no way a prize like the Nobel can accurately capture the intricate history of any individual discovery.
我并不是建议给这6000人每人颁发一个诺贝尔奖。我想说的是，今年的评选结果凸显了科学奖项的一个基本缺陷：像诺贝尔奖这样的奖项，不可能准确捕捉任何一项发现的错综复杂的历史。
At the very least, in the future the prize committee should be allowed to consider institutions and collaborations as well as individuals. Doing so would not only give recognition to the many people who deserve credit for discoveries like the Higgs, but it would also reflect to the world the nature of modern scientific investigation.
诺贝尔奖委员会未来至少应该考虑让机构和合作团队有机会像个人一样获奖。这样不仅可以表彰许多在希格斯这样的科学发现中有功的人，还可以向世人展示现代科学研究的本质。
François Englert and Peter Higgs deserve their Nobel recognition. But we should understand this prize as symbolic of a much greater effort: from a handful of imaginative theorists, a larger group of dedicated experimenters, and the even larger group of people in countries around the world who support basic research and make these discoveries possible.
弗朗索瓦·恩格勒和彼得·希格斯获得诺奖是实至名归的。但我们应该明白，这个荣誉代表着宏大得多的努力：它来自几名富于想象力的理论物理学家，大批敬业的实验物理学家，以及世界各地不同国家更多从事基础研究、使这些发现成为可能的人。