Really sexy. Super-foxy. I mean, that body.
太棒了，真是太妙了。我是说，这个身体。
Go ahead and ask a few men’s wear designers and fashion editors about the star players in the World Cup in Brazil, and they aren’t talking about who’s going to score the most goals or which player is the best attacking midfielder in Group B. No, all the talk is about who’s got the best face, the best hair and that tight body that’s just right for their clothes.
去问问那些男装设计师和时尚编辑们，谁会是巴西世界杯上的大明星，他们不会说谁会进球最多，或者说B组哪个攻击型中场最强。不，他们都在说谁长得最帅，谁的发型最好看，谁的身材最衬球衣。
“They’re some of the best-looking athletes,” Dao-Yi Chow, half of the design team at Public School, said at a GQ World Cup party last Tuesday, the day after his label won a men’s wear award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America.
“他们堪称最帅气的运动员，”公立学校(Public School)品牌设计团队的一员周道一（Dao-Yi Chow，音译）上周二在《GQ》杂志的世界杯派对上说，前一天他的品牌获得了美国时装设计师协会的一项男装奖。
“They just have that build,” said Tim Coppens, another C.F.D.A. winner. “They’re elegant.”
“他们的身材就是好，”另一位协会奖的获得者蒂姆·库朋斯(Tim Coppens)说，“他们太帅了。”
Kevin Carrigan, a global creative director at Calvin Klein, said, “When you think of designing underwear, it just lends itself to footballers.”
卡尔文·克莱因(Calvin Klein)的全球总监凯文·卡里根(Kevin Carrigan)说：“当你想起内衣设计，就会想起足球运动员穿它们的样子。”
Take a deep breath, everyone. The World Cup begins Thursday, and the fashion world is ready. Every four years, designers have a chance to locate, scout and mint a new fashion star. A footballer (that’s how the fussy soccer fans like to refer to them, forgive us Tom Brady) has the looks, a dash of international flair and a frame made for designer clothes.
大家深呼吸一下吧。世界杯周四就开始了，时尚界也准备好了。每四年，设计师们都有机会来定位、侦查、塑造一位时尚新星。他们找的是一个这样足球运动员（讲究的足球迷会称他们为“footballer”而不是“soccer”，汤姆·布拉迪[Tom Brady]原谅我们吧），他相貌堂堂，有点国际化气质，还拥有一个适合设计师服装的好身材。
Julie Ragolia, the fashion director at Man of the World magazine, said the fashion world’s deep interest in soccer is easy to explain: “They are the perfect sample size. They are not huge like an American football or basketball player. You can take a footballer and put him in a sample, and he’d look 100 percent beautiful.”
《世间男人》(Man of the World)杂志的时尚总监朱莉·雷加利亚(Julie Ragolia)说，时尚界对足球的强烈兴趣不难解释：“他们拥有完美的样衣尺寸。他们不会像橄榄球员或篮球运动员那样过于高大。你可以让一个足球运动员来试穿样衣，看上去绝对帅。”
Americans may only be dimly aware of their identities, but a short list has already emerged of the next World Cup-bound players who are ripe for future ad campaigns and reserved front-row seats. It starts with a bunch of players who go casually by one name, a couple of Brazilians (Neymar and Oscar), and a player from Japan (Keisuke Honda), with a few Europeans thrown into the mix.
美国人对他们的身份可能只是一知半解，但是，在这些参与世界杯的运动员中，谁会是未来的广告明星与秀场前排预留位置的占有者，一个最终名单已经产生。先是两个巴西人，人们通常只用一个名字来称呼他们——内马尔(Neymar)和奥斯卡(Oscar)，还有来自日本的本田圭佑(Keisuke Honda)，以及几个欧洲运动员。
“There is something that’s very important with this period of the year when everybody’s eyes are on this game,” Mr. Carrigan said. “The World Cup is just very good for us.”
“这是今年的重要时段，所有人都在关注这个比赛，”卡里根说，“世界杯非常有利于我们。”
And when did this fuss start?
这种大张旗鼓是怎么开始的呢？
“These soccer players, they’re pretty happening,” the men’s designer Todd Snyder said. “David Beckham really set the bar. He paved the way for all of this.”
“这些足球运动员是意外而来的，”男装设计师托德·斯尼德(Todd Snyder)说，“都是大卫·贝克汉姆(David Beckham)开的头，他为这一切铺平了道路。”
Oh, yes. Trend it like Beckham. The former British player became a bona fide fashion star. After he got a faux hawk? So did everyone else. His underwear ads (there was another one during the Super Bowl this year) run viral. He married a pop-star-turned-fashion-designer, and he’s got a front-row perch every season.
啊，对。像贝克汉姆一样时尚。这位前英国球星成了真正的时尚明星。他留仿莫西干头？这种发型一下就流行开了。他的内衣广告（今年超级碗上还有一个）成了“病毒”视频。他娶了一个流行歌手，她后来成了时装设计师，每一季时装发布会他都坐在前排。
The fashion world treats the soccer field like a runway. “Designers see a fame that’s really important to them,” said Godfrey Deeny, an editor at large for Le Figaro and editor in chief of Sepp, a biennial soccer and fashion magazine.
时尚界看待足球场就和看待秀场没什么两样。“设计师觉得名人对他们来说真的很重要，”戈德弗雷·蒂尼(Godfrey Deeny)说，他是《费加罗》(Le Figaro)的特约编辑，以及足球与时尚两年刊《Sepp》的主编。
In previous World Cups, Armani has cast players like Kaká of Brazil and Andriy Shevchenko of Ukraine, while Dolce & Gabbana tapped Lionel Messi of Argentina. Dolce & Gabbana is dressing the Italian national team — it has designed suits and sweaters to be worn by the players before and after games — and had tapped five members of that team for sultry underwear ads in the 2006 and 2010 World Cups. Freddie Ljungberg, a former Swedish player, has a panther tattoo stamped just so between his abs and his nether region that was tailor-made for a series of ads he shot for Calvin Klein underwear.
在前几届世界杯上，阿玛尼青睐巴西的卡卡(Kaká)和乌克兰的安德烈·舍普琴科(Andriy Shevchenko)，杜嘉班纳(Dolce & Gabbana)则开发了阿根廷的里奥内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)。杜嘉班纳为意大利国家队提供服装——包括设计西装和赛前赛后穿的运动服；在2006年和2010年世界杯时，它曾从国家队中选出五名球员拍摄性感内衣广告。前瑞典球星弗莱迪·永贝里(Freddie Ljungberg)在腹肌和私处之间有一处豹子纹身，这是专为他给卡尔文·克莱因的内衣广告定制的。
And then there is the Japanese player Hidetoshi Nakata.
然后还有日本球员中田英寿。
Mr. Nakata played for Japan in the World Cup three times from 1998 to 2006. He did a series of Calvin Klein ads, appeared in a GQ spread and has been seated front row at shows for Gucci, Givenchy and Dior Homme. He is also an editor at large at Tyler Brûlé’s magazine, Monocle (his most recent contribution was a spread on World Cup logos through the years).
自1998年到2006年，中田英寿代表日本队三次出战世界杯。他做过一系列卡尔文·克莱因的内衣广告，上过一次《GQ》跨页，在古驰(Gucci)、纪梵希(Givenchy)和迪奥·桀骜(Dior Homme)的走秀上坐第一排。他还是泰勒·布鲁尔(Tyler Brûlé)的杂志《单片镜》(Monocle)的特约编辑（他最新的供稿是一幅近年来世界杯标识组成的跨页）。
“Nakata’s one of those footballers that’s crossed over from football to fashion,” Mr. Carrigan said. “He’s good friends with a lot of designers.”
“中田英寿是从足球跨界到时尚的运动员之一，”卡里根说，“他和很多设计师是好朋友。”
And the fashion world wants to know: Where are the next Beckhams or Nakatas or Freddies?
时尚界也想知道：下一个贝克汉姆、中田英寿或永贝里在哪里？
If there is one guy who’s gotten the early endorsement, it appears to be the biggest sensation in Brazil: Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior. (Just call him Neymar.)
如果说有一位获得了初步的认可，在巴西引发轰动，他就是 内马尔·达·席尔瓦·儒尼奥尔(Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior)，我们就叫他内马尔。
The 22-year-old is playing in his first World Cup, and his global popularity has made him an obvious candidate for the fashion world. He appeared on the cover of Vogue Brazil alongside Gisele Bündchen, which was shot by Mario Testino. He’s also on the cover of the current WSJ magazine wearing a Calvin Klein Collection sweatshirt (and is one of three cover models for The New York Times Magazine this weekend). He seems at ease with his body: YouTube is swimming with Neymar in underwear ads (the label is named Lupo).
22岁的他这是第一次参加世界杯，他在全球受欢迎的程度使他成为时尚界眼中的候选人。他的照片出现在《Vogue》巴西版的封面，身边是吉赛尔·邦辰(Gisele Bündchen)，照片由马里奥·泰斯蒂诺(Mario Testino)拍摄。这期《WSJ》杂志的封面上则是他身穿卡尔文·克莱因Collection运动衫的照片（本周末《纽约时报》T Magazine封面上的三个模特也有他一份）。他似乎对于自己的身体感到轻松自在：YouTube上到处都是内马尔的内衣广告（品牌的名字叫Lupo）。
“He’s kind of got it all: He’s good-looking, he’s a superstar, and Brazil is a major force in the World Cup regardless of what country that’s hosting it,” said Will Welch, the style editor at GQ. “Add in the fact that Brazil is hosting the cup, and that’s just ramping it up even further.”
“他近乎完美：相貌堂堂，是超级巨星。而且巴西不管是不是东道主，都是世界杯上一支强队。”《GQ》时尚编辑威尔·韦尔奇(Will Welch)说。“况且巴西正是本届杯赛的东道主，这可以让他走得更远。”
But it wouldn’t be the fashion world without some skepticism about the popular front-runner.
但时尚界对这位人气王不可能没有疑虑。
“I just don’t think that the way he dresses is very sophisticated,” the men’s designer Robert Geller said. “He’s got a lot of money, but it just seems a little nouveau riche, a little cheesy.”
“我不觉得他穿衣服的方式有多成熟，”男装设计师罗伯特·盖勒(Robert Geller)说，“他很有钱，但有点像暴发户，有点廉价的感觉。”
Mr. Welch said, “Fashion feels less like a natural part of his lifestyle right now than it does for Ronaldo,” speaking of Cristiano Ronaldo, the 29-year-old Portuguese player who has been in Armani underwear ads since 2010. More recently, he posed nude for the cover of Spanish Vogue, shielded discreetly by his girlfriend, the model Irina Shayk, in a shot taken by (who else?) Mr. Testino.
韦尔奇说：“和罗纳尔多不同，如今时尚还不像是内马尔生活方式中自然而然的部分，”他指的是29岁的葡萄牙球星克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多(Cristiano Ronaldo)，自2010年，他就一直为阿玛尼内衣做广告。最近，他为西班牙版《Vogue》拍摄了裸体广告，私处由名模女友伊丽娜·莎伊克(Cristiano Ronaldo)遮挡，照片同样由（还能有谁呢？）泰斯蒂诺拍摄。
Also baring a considerable amount of flesh is Neymar’s lesser-known 22-year-old teammate Oscar dos Santos Emboaba Júnior (known as Oscar), who is currently starring in a Brazil-specific ad campaign that includes Oscar stripped down into Calvin Klein skivvies.
同样大尺度裸体的还有内马尔知名度较为逊色的队友，22岁的奥斯卡·多斯桑托斯·恩博亚巴·朱尼奥（Oscar dos Santos Emboaba Júnior，叫他奥斯卡就行了），他最近在一个只在巴西发布的广告中亮相，其中有一组照片中他脱掉外衣，只穿卡尔文·克莱因内衣。
“He looks really hot and sexy in it,” Mr. Carrigan said. “It’s quintessential Calvin.”
“他穿着那些内衣真是火辣性感，”卡里根说，“这正是克莱因的精髓。”
And then there’s another player from Japan: Mr. Honda, 27. Is he a Nakata manqué? Or will he be the real deal?
还有一位球员来自日本：27岁的本田圭佑。他是中田英寿的缩水版吗？抑或他能够大获成功？
“I just got back from Japan yesterday,” Mr. Geller said. “People are just crazy for him over there. You see him in commercials for beer and soft drinks. He’s become the face of the Japanese national team. He looks very cool.”
“我昨天刚从日本回来，”盖勒说，“那儿的人都为他而疯狂。你可以看到他出现在啤酒和软饮料的广告上。他成了日本国家队的代表人物。他非常酷。”
And he’s got something else: He’s got the hair. (“A cool hairstyle,” Mr. Geller put it.)
另外他还有别的魅力：他的头发（“非常酷的发型，”盖勒说）。
“Karl Lagerfeld always like to hire Japanese models who dye their hair blond,” Mr. Deeny said. “Well, Honda dyes his hair blond, and he looks very good in it.”
“卡尔·拉格斐(Karl Lagerfeld)总喜欢雇那些染成金发的日本模特，”蒂尼说，“中田英寿就染了金头发，看上去很好看。”
And just as with Oscar (who plays for Chelsea in the English Premier League), he has that all-important X factor that football-minded designers and editors talked about over and over again: He plays in Europe, and in a fashion capital — Milan.
和目前效力于英超切尔西(Chelsea)俱乐部的奥斯卡一样，对于那些懂足球的设计师和编辑们来说，本田圭佑也拥有一项为他们所津津乐道的重要因素：他在欧洲踢球，而且是在时尚之都——米兰。
“That’s sort of reflective in his style,” Mr. Geller said. “It’s a mix of very fine Italian tailoring, and he puts a Japanese twist on things, so it’s a little more playful than the typical Italian style.”
“这影响了他的风格，”盖勒说。“他的风格综合了精致的意大利裁剪，而且他又加上了一种日本风情，比典型的意大利风格要多一点诙谐色彩。”
After those three players, the consensus seems to fall apart, with at least a dozen other players being cited as potential breakout stars.
除了这三个球员，人们的意见不大统一，至少有十几个球员被认为有可能成为新星。
“Seriously, the Belgian team is really good,” said Mr. Coppens, the Belgian designer. “There are some really stylish guys in there.”
“认真地说，比利时队很棒，”来自比利时的设计师库朋斯说，“队里有几个小伙子真的很时尚。”
He made a case for Vincent Kompany, while Mr. Deeny argued on behalf of a 23-year-old named Eden Hazard. Mr. Coppens agreed on one point — “He’s got a good look” — before adding: “A lot of this depends on how interested they are in it. You can’t push it on somebody. And they don’t have a lot of time.”
他举了樊尚·孔帕尼(Vincent Kompany)为例，不过蒂尼支持23岁的埃登·阿扎尔(Eden Hazard)。库朋斯也同意蒂尼——“他很帅”——但他又说：“这在很大程度上要看他们对时装有多大兴趣。你不能逼迫任何人穿时装。他们没有多少时间去穿衣打扮。”
This is an important point to remember.
这是很重要的一点。
“I really think it’s about interest,” said Mr. Welch, the GQ editor. “And not just about doing something for a paycheck or because their agent signed them up for it. It’s about personal style. It’s not only for people who can show up for a shoot and get groomed and styled, but people who can dress themselves in a compelling manner. But it has to be a reciprocal relationship.”
“我确实觉得这和兴趣有关，”《GQ》的编辑韦尔奇说。“不仅仅是关乎报酬，或者是经纪人给他们签的合同，这和个人风格有关。不是能拍照片、能打扮干净、能摆造型就可以，还要有能力自己把自己打扮成迷人的样子。但是这二者是相辅相成的。”
Oh, one last thing: They need to play well, too.
噢，对了，还有最后一条：他们还得踢球踢得好才行。