For Ade Olatunde, turning down Oxford University was a no-brainer. A senior at Mossbourne Academy, a state-funded school in Hackney, a gritty district in the East End of London, Mr. Olatunde will enroll at the University of North Carolina this fall.
对于埃德·奥拉通德(Ade Olatunde)而言，拒绝牛津大学(Oxford University)并不困难。他是莫斯伯恩学院(Mossbourne Academy)的大四学生，这所学校位于伦敦东区环境恶劣的街区哈克尼(Hackney)，奥拉通德将于今年秋季进入北卡罗莱纳大学(University of North Carolina)学习。
“I know I want to study geography and city planning, but I’m not too sure about the rest,” said Mr. Olatunde, who also turned down a place at the London School of Economics. “That’s one reason for doing this.”
“我知道我想学地理和城市规划，但是我对其他方面不太确定，”奥拉通德说。他还拒绝了伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)的学习机会。“这是我这么做的其中一个原因。”
The lure of a broader liberal arts curriculum, and the chance to combine science with humanities, has contributed to a steep rise in applications from British students to American universities, according to officials at the US-UK Fulbright Commission, an organization funded by the American and British governments to promote educational exchanges. But the British government’s decision two years ago to allow English universities to triple their tuition has also made a big difference.
美英富布赖特委员会(US-UK Fulbright Commission)的官员表示，更多人文课程的吸引力以及把科学与人文学科相结合的机会，促使申请美国大学的英国学生人数急剧增加。美英富布赖特委员会由美国和英国政府资助，目的在于推动教育方面的交流。但是，英国政府两年前允许英国大学将学费增加两倍的决定，也产生了重大影响。
At Oxford, annual tuition is now 9,000 pounds, or $15,000. The university offered Mr. Olatunde a fee reduction of about £1,000 a year, based on his family’s income, but he would have needed a government loan to cover the rest, leaving him with heavy debt on graduation.
牛津大学目前每年的学费为9000英镑，或1.5万美元（约合9.5万元人民币）。牛津大学还根据奥拉通德的家庭收入，每年给他减免学费约1000英镑，但是他还需要向政府贷款来支付剩下的学费，这样他毕业时就会背负很重的还贷压力。
“Compared with the chance to go to America, and to attend a top school for free, it wasn’t a difficult choice for me,” said Mr. Olatunde, who was born in Ibadan, Nigeria, and came to Britain with his mother and sister in 2007.
“有机会去美国，而且还可以免费去名校念书，这个选择并不困难，”出生在尼日利亚伊巴丹的奥拉通德说。2007年，他与母亲和姐妹一起来到英国。
Gemma Collins, from Blackpool, in the northwest of England, will start classes at Harvard this fall, the first member of her family to attend university. The chance to combine history and English with an interest in education policy was what initially drew her to consider studying in America. “Student debt, or needing to take out a student loan, didn’t really worry me,” she said. Still, when she learned that she could attend Harvard with all her tuition paid for, “my accommodation paid for, no loan, and even travel back home — the financial aid package was really amazing,” Ms. Collins said. “Harvard makes sure that if you can get in, you can afford to go.”
来自英格兰西北部布莱克浦的杰玛·科林斯(Gemma Collins)将于今年秋季开始在哈佛(Harvard)上课，她是家族中的第一个大学生。最初之所以考虑在美国求学，是因为有机会将她对教育政策的兴趣，与历史和英语结合起来。“学生债务，或者获取学生贷款的需要，并不是我特别担心的东西，”她说。但是，当她得知她能够免费去哈佛念书时，“我不用交住宿费，没有贷款，甚至连回国的路费也包括在内——这样的助学金待遇真的太棒了，”科林斯说。“哈佛能保证，只要你能进去，就上得起学。”
Both Mr. Olatunde and Ms. Collins are beneficiaries of a collaboration between the Sutton Trust, a British charity dedicated to improving social mobility through education, and the Fulbright Commission. The trust has long run summer programs for British students from low- and middle-income backgrounds to encourage them to apply to elite universities. In the summer of 2012, it first sent 64 students to Yale for a week, and 21 ended up going to American schools. Last summer, 150 students joined the program, hosted at Yale and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Of those, 64 — triple the number of two years ago — will head for America this fall.
奥拉通德和科林斯都是萨顿信托(Sutton Trust)——一个旨在通过教育改进社会流动性的英国慈善机构——和富布赖特委员会的一项合作的受益者。一直以来，萨顿信托都在为来自中低收入家庭的英国学生举办暑期项目，帮他们申请世界名校。2012年夏季，它将64名学生送往耶鲁大学(Yale)参加为期一周的项目，其中21人最后去了美国学校。去年夏季，共有150名学生参加了这个项目，他们的目的地是耶鲁大学和麻省理工学院（Massachusetts Institute of Technology，简称MIT）。他们当中将有64人会在今年秋季前往美国念书——这个数字是两年前的三倍。
Ms. Collins is one of three going to Harvard. The program is also sending five students to Princeton; three to Yale; three to Dartmouth; and one each to Brown, Columbia, Barnard and the University of Pennsylvania.
科林斯是进入哈佛大学就读的三人之一。该项目还把五名学生送入普林斯顿大学(Princeton)、三人送入耶鲁大学、三人送入达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth)，另外布朗大学(Brown)、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia)、巴纳德学院(Barnard College)和宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)各一人。
Participants in the program will also attend M.I.T., Smith, Tufts and Williams in Massachusetts; Bowdoin and Colby in Maine; Middlebury and Bennington in Vermont; Bryn Mawr, Swarthmore and Lafayette in Pennsylvania; Trinity and Connecticut in Connecticut; Oberlin and Kenyon in Ohio; the University of Chicago and Northwestern in Illinois; Notre Dame in Indiana; Carleton in Minnesota; New York University, Rochester and Skidmore in New York; Duke in North Carolina; Emory and Georgia Tech in Georgia; Vanderbilt in Tennessee; and Claremont McKenna and Pomona in California.
项目参与者即将就读的学校还包括：马萨诸塞州的MIT、史密斯学院(Smith)、塔夫茨大学(Tufts)和威廉姆斯学院(Williams)；缅因州的鲍登学院(Bowdoin)和科尔比学院(Colby)；佛蒙特州的米德尔伯里学院(Middlebury)和本宁顿学院(Bennington)；宾州的布林茅尔学院(Bryn Mawr)、斯沃斯莫尔学院(Swarthmore)和拉法耶特学院(Lafayette)；康涅狄格州的三一学院(Trinity)和康涅狄格大学(University of Connecticut)；俄亥俄州的欧柏林大学(Oberlin)和肯尼恩学院(Kenyon)；伊利诺伊州的芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)和西北大学(Northwestern)；印第安纳州圣母大学(Notre Dame)；明尼苏达州卡尔顿大学(Carleton)；纽约州纽约大学(New York University)、罗切斯特大学(Rochester)和斯基德莫尔学院(Skidmore)；北卡罗莱纳州杜克大学(Duke)；乔治亚州埃默里大学(Emory)和佐治亚理工学院(Georgia Tech)；田纳西州范德堡大学(Vanderbilt)，以及加州的克莱蒙特·麦肯纳学院(Claremont McKenna College)和波莫纳学院(Pomona College)。
“Our aim is to ensure that bright kids from low- and middle-income families have the same opportunities as their better-off peers,” said Peter Lampl, the trust’s founder.
萨顿信托的创办者彼得·兰普尔(Peter Lampl)说，“我们的目的在于确保来自中低收入家庭的聪明孩子与那些富裕家庭的孩子享有同样的机会。”
To be eligible for the program, students must have a family income of less than £45,000 a year. This year, 60 percent come from families with annual incomes below £25,000, and nearly the same percentage will be the first in the family to attend university. John Jerrim, an economics researcher at London University’s Institute of Education, said that for such students, who could expect to graduate from a top English university with debts of £34,000 to £40,000, the chance to graduate debt-free from an American university is too good to turn down.
项目规定，参加该项目的学生的家庭年收入必须低于4.5万英镑。今年，60%的学生都来自年收入低于2.5万英镑的家庭，还有将近60%的学生都是家族中的第一个大学生。伦敦大学教育研究院(London University’s Institute of Education)经济研究员约翰·杰里姆(John Jerrim)说，对于那些从顶尖英国大学毕业后可能要背负3.4万到4万英镑贷款的学生而言，进入美国大学就读就可以不用负债，这种好机会实在令人难以拒绝。