There’s a scene in “Clouds of Sils Maria” in which a young American played by Kristen Stewart delivers a beautifully sincere defense of blockbusters to a French star played by Juliette Binoche. They’re talking about movies in a multilayered film from the French director Olivier Assayas that is itself partly an inquiry into cinema. The star, Maria Enders, has become famous in big movies, yet she also voices contempt for them. Given how closely Mr. Assayas cuts to a central tension that plays out yearly at the Cannes Film Festival — a temple of auteurist worship that rolls out the red carpet for industrial cinema — it isn’t surprising that “Sils Maria” wasn’t wholly embraced here.
戛纳，法国——《锡尔斯玛利亚》(Clouds of Sils Maria)中有一幕，克里斯汀·斯图尔特(Kristen Stewart)扮演的一个美国年轻人向朱丽叶·比诺什(Juliette Binoche)扮演的一位法国电影明星真诚而精彩地为电影大片做了一番辩护。她们是在法国导演奥利维耶·阿萨亚斯(Olivier Assayas)的一部多层次电影中谈论电影，这部电影本身从一定程度上讲就是对电影业的探究。片中的电影明星玛利亚·恩德斯(Maria Enders)就是因为主演了一些大片而出了名，但是她也道出了对这种电影的鄙视。鉴于阿萨亚斯贴近了戛纳电影节每年上演的主要对抗——戛纳电影节是导演主创论的圣坛，特别欢迎工业电影——所以《锡尔斯玛利亚》在这里没有完全被接纳并不令人意外。  
One of the strongest entries in the main competition, “Clouds of Sils Maria” pivots on Maria, a figure who, along with driving the narrative, engages in a struggle that expresses some of Mr. Assayas’s complex ideas about movies. Soon after the film opens, Maria learns that an old mentor, Wilhelm Melchior, a theatrical godhead somewhat inspired by Ingmar Bergman, has died. (Mr. Assayas, 59, a former critic for Cahiers du Cinéma, helped write a book on Bergman.) Accompanied by her assistant, Valentine (Ms. Stewart), Maria travels to Melchior’s home in Sils-Maria, an area in the Swiss Alps known for its haunting cloud formations and as where Nietzsche first came upon the idea of eternal recurrence. There, unsettled by death and her own mortality, Maria confronts the past, present and future.
《锡尔斯玛利亚》是主竞赛单元的一部重要影片。它以玛利亚(Maria)为中心，这个人物除了推动叙事发展，还陷入了一种挣扎，表达出阿萨亚斯对电影的一些复杂观点。电影开始后不久，玛利亚得知她的一位老导师威廉·梅尔基奥(Wilhelm Melchior)去世了。这个戏剧之神式的人物多少是以英格玛·伯格曼(Ingmar Bergman)为灵感创作的（59岁的阿萨亚斯曾是《电影手册》的评论家，帮忙写了一本关于伯格曼的书）。玛利亚在助手瓦伦丁（Valentine，斯图尔特饰）的陪同下，来到梅尔基奥的家，它在瑞士阿尔卑斯山区的锡尔斯玛利亚，这里以令人难忘的变幻多姿的云朵闻名，尼采就是在这里首次产生了永恒轮回的想法。在那里，玛利亚为死亡和自己必死的命运感到不安，开始思考过去、现在和未来。  
Last Thursday, I met Mr. Assayas on a yacht flying a flag for Arte, the European network that helped produce “Clouds of Sils Maria.” Yachts are part of the semiotic landscape at Cannes, emblems of privilege that are scattered over the harbor and moored at the jetty next to the festival headquarters. But they also serve utilitarian functions: That night, Mr. Assayas, Chloë Grace Moretz (who plays a star in “Sils Maria” who’s tabloid bait) and other members of the cast and crew gathered on the yacht for a low-key dinner. The next morning, the team would face its longest day at Cannes, beginning with an 8:30 a.m. press screening and reaching a climax in the early evening with the official premiere and the ceremonial walk down the red carpet.
上周四，我在一艘挂着欧洲Arte电视网旗帜的游艇上见到了阿萨亚斯。该电视网帮助制作了《锡尔斯玛利亚》。游艇是戛纳的标志性景观之一，是特权的象征。它们散布在海湾里或者停泊在电影节总部旁边的码头。但是它们也有实用功能：当晚，阿萨亚斯、克洛伊·格蕾丝·莫瑞兹（Chloë Grace Moretz，在片中扮演一位受小报追逐的明星）和剧组的其他成员在游艇上举办了一个低调的晚宴。第二天早上，剧组将面对在戛纳最长的一天，从早上8点半的记者放映会开始，以傍晚的正式首映和红毯仪式为高潮。
Mr. Assayas, who lives in Paris with his wife, the director Mia Hansen-Love, and their daughter, had arrived by train earlier in the morning. He has been at Cannes many times, most recently in 2010 with “Carlos,” his sprawling epic about Carlos the Jackal. Seated on one of the yacht’s upper decks, the whippet-thin, fast-talking Mr. Assayas — words cascade from him like water — said that “Sils Maria” had grown out of his collaboration with Ms. Binoche on the André Téchiné film “Rendez-vous,” which was in competition at Cannes in 1985. Written by Mr. Assayas and Mr. Téchiné, “Rendez-vous” tells the story of a young actress (Ms. Binoche), who, when the film opens, is an unknown, and, when it ends, is waiting in the wings of a new play, her stardom assured.
阿萨亚斯和妻子、导演米亚·汉森-洛夫(Mia Hansen-Love)及女儿住在巴黎。他一早乘火车到达戛纳。他参加戛纳电影节很多次了，最近一次是2010年携《卡洛斯》(Carlos)参展。《卡洛斯》是一部关于胡狼卡洛斯(Carlos the Jackal)的漫长的史诗电影。阿萨亚斯坐在游艇的上层甲板上。他很瘦，讲起话来滔滔不绝，速度很快。他说《锡尔斯玛利亚》源于他和比诺什在安德烈·泰西内(André Téchiné)的电影《情陷夜巴黎》(Rendez-vous)中的合作，该片曾参加1985年戛纳电影节的角逐。《情陷夜巴黎》由阿萨亚斯和泰西内合作编剧，讲述的是一个年轻女演员（比诺什饰）的故事，电影开始时她默默无名，结束时她马上要拍一部新剧，成名指日可待。
“It all goes way back to my relationship with Juliette,” Mr. Assayas said. “Rendez-vous” made her a star and was his first produced screenplay. “The film was shown here,” he said. “André got the prize for best director, the film was released, like, the same week in France and became a big hit.” He had made some short films and was working at Cahiers, but “all of a sudden, people were quoting me.” Mr. Assayas and Ms. Binoche wanted to work together again but didn’t until “Summer Hours,” his sublime 2008 film in which she co-stars as one of three siblings dealing with the aftermath of their mother’s death. Sometime later, Ms. Binoche called him and said: “O.K., what about that movie we’re supposed to make. Is it happening?”
“它[这部电影]可以追溯到我和朱丽叶的关系上，”阿萨亚斯说。《情陷夜巴黎》让她成了明星，也是他的第一个拍成电影的剧本。“那部电影当时在这里放映，”他说，“安德烈得了最佳导演奖，同一周在法国上映，引起了轰动。”他在那之前拍过一些短片，为《电影手册》工作，但是“突然之间，人们开始引用我说过的话”。阿萨亚斯和比诺什想再次合作，但是直到2008年在他精彩的《夏日时光》(Summer Hours)中他们才得以合作，她扮演的是应对母亲逝后余波的三姊妹之一。一段时间之后，比诺什给他打电话说：“好吧，我们该拍的那部电影怎么样了？能拍了吗？”
Mr. Assayas, then in the middle of writing his last feature, “Something in the Air,” signed on to a reunion. “I had no idea what the film would be,” he said, “but I knew I could do something with Juliette in relationship to our common history.” That history plays out in “Sils Maria” in a number of ways, including through a twisty narrative thread involving Maria’s difficulty in accepting a role, one that Valentine aggressively pushes her to take. Two decades earlier, Maria rose to fame in a Melchior play, “Maloja Snake,” as Sigrid, a young woman who drives an older woman, Helena, to suicide. Now, Maria is being courted for a new production, this time as Helena.
阿萨亚斯当时正在写上一部故事片《五月之后》(Something in the Air)，他答应会再次合作。“我当时完全不知道要拍一部什么样的电影，”他说，“但是我知道我可以和朱丽叶合拍一部跟我们共同的历史有关的电影。”那段历史体现在《锡尔斯玛利亚》的很多方面，包括一个曲折的故事线索——玛利亚不想接受瓦伦丁积极鼓动她去演的一个角色。二十年前，玛利亚因在梅尔基奥的戏剧《马洛亚之蛇》(Maloja Snake)中扮演西格丽德(Sigrid)而成名。西格丽德是个年轻女子，她驱使年长的海伦娜(Helena)自杀了。现在，该剧重排时请玛利亚再次出演，不过这次是演海伦娜。
“The play tells a simple story,” the director for the new production says to Maria, “an older woman falls in love with a scheming girl who has her wrapped around her little finger.” From the way Maria interacts with Valentine, he could be talking about them — or not. The film is filled with such teasing doubling and, in moments, evokes both “All About Eve” and especially “Persona” without ever descending into pastiche. Instead, Mr. Assayas plays with the idea of art imitating life, as well as the reverse, while also exploring questions of time, youth and the slipping away of each. Although Maria is a star, she’s also around 40 (Ms. Binoche is 50), and time and the movie industry are not on her side. She resists taking the role of the older woman even if it’s a part she plays in life.
“这部戏剧讲了一个简单的故事，”新版戏剧的导演对玛利亚说，“一个年长的女人爱上了一个有心计的女孩，那个女孩把她玩弄于股掌之间。”从玛利亚和瓦伦丁的关系来看，他可能说的正是她们的关系——也可能不是。这部电影充满了这种戏谑的影射，常常让人想起《彗星美人》(All About Eve)和《假面》(Persona)，但是它没有沦为简单的模仿。相反，阿萨亚斯探讨了艺术与人生的相似，还探讨了时间、青春以及它们的流逝的问题。虽然玛利亚是个明星，她也40岁左右了（比诺什50岁了），在年龄和电影业方面她都不占优势。她不想演年长女人的角色，尽管在生活中她扮演的正是这样的角色。
A mesmerizing hall of mirrors, “Clouds of Sils Maria” won defenders but no prizes at Cannes. It is destined to be one of those films that, having initially divided reviewers, will be rediscovered by viewers willing to sift through its depths and Mr. Assayas’s ideas on realism, the fast-changing world, fast-moving audiences and the fast-mutating cinema. Once again, the subject turned to blockbusters. “There’s an audience to whom they do say things,” he said, his voice quickening. “In many ways, they are the most coherent representation of the world they live in.” This needs to be respected, and understood. And then Mr. Assayas quoted from Valentine’s defense of the blockbuster: “It’s a convention, but it’s not dumber than any other convention,” which he believes to be “profoundly true.”
《锡尔斯玛利亚》像一个装满镜子的催眠会所，它赢得了一些支持者，但是没有获得戛纳电影节的任何奖项。它注定要成为那种最初褒贬不一而后被某些观众重新发现的电影——你得乐意仔细研究它的深度，研究阿萨亚斯对现实主义、对这个快速变化的世界、快速转变的观众、快速变异的电影业的看法。他再一次提到大片。“对某些观众来说，它们[大片]的确讲述了一些事情，”他兴奋地说，“从很多方面讲，它们是他们生活的世界最直接的表现。”这需要被尊重和理解。然后阿萨亚斯引用了瓦伦丁对大片的辩护：“它是一种传统，它不比其他传统更愚蠢。”他认为这句话“非常正确”。