In the new romantic comedy “Words and Pictures,” a rolling office chair becomes a tool for art creation. Juliette Binoche, playing an art teacher whose rheumatoid arthritis affects her ability to paint, lies on her stomach across the chair, grabs a paintbrush and swivels from one part to another of the canvas on the floor. Passion and pain become a part of each stroke, as Ms. Binoche both plays a visual artist and is one.
在最新浪漫喜剧《文字与图像》(Words and Pictures)中，一把办公室转椅成了艺术创作的工具。朱丽叶·比诺什(Juliette Binoche)饰演一个艺术老师，身患类风湿关节炎，影响了她绘画的能力，只能把画布铺在地上，然后趴在这张椅子上，拿着笔刷，转来转去地画画。激情与痛苦灌注在每一笔之中，而比诺什除了要扮演这个画家，她本人也是画家。
The film, due May 23, follows the competitive relationship between an art teacher and an English teacher (Clive Owen) at a prep school. Both have strong opinions about which medium of expression matters most. The paintings by Ms. Binoche’s character, Dina Delsanto, are seen in various finished and unfinished forms throughout the movie. But there are no art doubles here. Ms. Binoche created all of the canvases herself.
该片在5月23日上映，讲述一个预科学校里，一位艺术教师与一位英语教师（克里夫·欧文[Clive Owen]饰）之间的竞争故事。对于何种表达感情的媒介更为重要，是文字还是图像，两人分别有着不容动摇的观点。比诺什饰演的角色名叫蒂娜·德尔桑托(Dina Delsanto)，她创作的油画贯穿影片始终，有的完成了，有的未完成。但片中没有用代笔。所有油画都是比诺什亲笔画的。
She came by her love of painting early, when her mother bought her a large collection of art books as a child. She took lessons growing up, and while she eventually moved into acting, the visual arts stayed with her. Those skills have been seen on screen before: She created her own images playing a street artist in Leos Carax’s 1991 film, “The Lovers on the Bridge.” But her art is a greater part of the plot in “Words and Pictures,” and more of it is shown.
比诺什很早就开始喜欢绘画了，童年时代，母亲曾经给她买过很多艺术书籍。长大后她还上过美术课，转向表演之后，也没有放弃对视觉艺术的爱好。她之前就在银幕上展现过这项技能：她曾经在莱奥·卡拉克斯(Leos Carax)1991年的电影《新桥恋人》(The Lovers on the Bridge)中饰演街头艺术家，画下自己的自画像。但在《文字与图像》中，她的艺术创作在情节中所占的分量要大得多，也出现了更多作品。
“I didn’t fully know how much of an artist Juliette was,” the film’s director, Fred Schepisi, said in a phone interview. It was only after she showed him examples of her work during a Skype conversation that he realized she could make the film’s paintings herself.
“我一开始并不完全了解朱丽叶是多好的一个艺术家，”导演弗雷德·谢皮西(Fred Schepisi)在电话采访中说。后来她在通过Skype聊天时给他看了自己的作品，他才发现她可以自己创作这部电影中使用的油画。
Dina’s background is in portraiture, but as her condition worsens, her images grow more abstract. Ms. Binoche, also more experienced with portraits, had to figure out how to make that transition on canvas. She was inspired by the bold, colorful strokes in the paintings of her friend Fabienne Verdier.
蒂娜原本是肖像画家，但随着病情恶化，她的画开始变得更加抽象。比诺什也画过很多肖像画，她得想办法在画布上表现出这种转变。她受到朋友法比恩·维迪尔(Fabienne Verdier)大胆、鲜艳的油画笔触启发。
“I had always been fascinated by her painting, so I suggested her tools, brushes that are heavy and big,” Ms. Binoche said, speaking by phone. In both the film and Ms. Verdier’s studio, those brushes are mounted on beams that hang from the ceiling. “I thought it was an interesting brush for my character, because she doesn’t have to hold it by herself.”
“我一直都很喜欢她的画，所以我想起，她的工具和画笔都是又大又重，”比诺什在接受电话采访时说。在两部影片中，乃至在维迪尔的工作室里，画笔都是被安装在横梁上，从天花板垂下来 。“我觉得对于我的角色来说，那是很有意思的一支笔，因为她不用自己去握住它。”
This technique, along with the use of the office chair, led to new ways of working for both Ms. Binoche and Mr. Schepisi.
这种技术，再加上那张办公室转椅，让比诺什和谢皮西有了新的工作方法。
“When Fred and I talked in the studio, instead of going through the interpretation of the role, we were going through the interpretation of the paintings,” Ms. Binoche said.
“弗雷德和我在摄影棚里交谈的时候，我们不是分析角色，而是分析这些画面，”比诺什说。
Before scenes of Dina painting got under way, Mr. Schepisi first allowed Ms. Binoche time and space to get into the mood of the character. Then he had two cameras roll to record the art creation in progress.
在拍蒂娜绘画的戏之前，谢皮西先给比诺什时间和空间，去进入角色的状态。然后他让两个镜头来现场记录艺术创作的过程。
“It was an adventurous, but great, way of going, because it has that reality of trial and error actually happening on screen and not having to be faked,” Mr. Schepisi said.
“这是一种很冒险的做法，但很棒，因为它是实时发生在银幕上的，具有试验和犯错的真实性，不用去伪装，”谢皮西说。