SEOUL, South Korea — Unleashing fresh criticism of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea on Saturday urged him to be honest and courageous enough to face his country’s history of aggression in the early 20th century, especially its enslavement of Asian women in Imperial Army brothels.
韩国首尔——韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)周六向日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)发起了新一轮的批评，敦促他要用足够的坦率和勇气去面对该国20世纪初期的侵略历史，尤其是帝国陆军的妓院对亚洲女性的奴役行为。
“True courage lies not in denying the past but in looking squarely at the history as it was and teaching growing generations the correct history,” Ms. Park said, referring to Japan’s often brutal colonization of Korea from 1910 to 1945. “The more one denies the history of the past, the more wretched and more isolated one gets.”
“真正的勇敢之举不是去否定过去，而是直视历史的本来面目，向正在成长的一代讲授正确的历史，”朴槿惠说，她在此处所指的是1910到1945年间，日本对朝鲜半岛实施的颇为暴虐的殖民统治。“一个人对过去的历史否定越多，就会越悲惨，越孤单。”
Just a day earlier, Mr. Abe’s government said it would re-examine a landmark 1993 apology it made to the sex slaves, commonly known by the euphemism “comfort women.”
就在一天前，安倍政府表示将重新审视1993年的一次具有里程碑意义的道歉，那次道歉的对象是通常会用“慰安妇”一词来委婉指称的性奴隶。
Ms. Park made her comments during a nationally televised speech on the anniversary of a 1919 uprising by Koreans against their colonial masters. South Korean leaders traditionally commemorate the anniversary, an important national holiday here, with overtures or warnings against Japan and North Korea.
朴槿惠此番言论是在朝鲜半岛人民反抗殖民统治的1919年起义周年纪念日那天做出的，演说进行了全国电视转播。这是一个重要的全国性节日，韩国领导人历来会参与纪念，并利用这个机会向日本和朝鲜做出或友好或警告的姿态。
Besides lashing out at Japan, this year’s speech struck a hopeful note on North Korea, proposing regular family reunions on the divided Korean Peninsula. Late last month, the two Koreas held their first family reunions in three years; hundreds of aging Koreans separated by the Korean War were reunited for a few days.
除了抨击日本，今年的演说还在朝鲜问题上发出了一个充满希望的讯号，提议在一分为二的朝鲜半岛上实现亲人的定期团聚。上月底，朝韩双方进行了三年来的首次家人团聚；数百位因朝鲜战争而离散的老人有了几天的相聚时间。
The reunions were considered a significant step after relations between the two Koreas hit a low last year, partly over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.
在朝鲜的核武器计划等问题影响下，朝韩关系在去年陷入低谷，而今的亲人团聚被认为是双方向前迈出的一大步。
Ms. Park called the reunions an important step toward improving relations between the two Koreas and eventually reunifying them. When liberating Korea from Japan at the end of World War II, the Soviet Union and the United States installed client regimes in Pyongyang and Seoul, a division over which Koreans still nurse a grievance.
朴槿惠称这次团聚是朝韩改善关系并最终实现统一的重要一步。在第二次世界大战末期，苏联和美国将朝鲜半岛从日本手中夺回后在平壤和首尔分别建立了傀儡政权，这种分裂至今令朝韩两国人抑郁难平。
“A reunified nation, a reunified Korean Peninsula, would complete the spirit of the March 1 Movement, in which our ancestors rose up, calling for national independence and self-esteem,” Ms. Park said, referring to the 1919 anti-Japanese uprising.
“一个恢复统一的国家，一个恢复统一的朝鲜半岛，将令三一运动之精神得以圆满，我们的先辈在运动中揭竿而起，吁求民族独立和自尊，”朴槿惠在提到1919年的反日运动时说。
Relations between South Korea and Japan have long been prickly because of the colonial past. But they have been aggravated further under Ms. Park and Mr. Abe.
由于这段殖民历史，韩国与日本的关系一直是个棘手问题。双边关系在朴槿惠和安倍晋三任内愈发恶化。
Since she took office in February last year, Ms. Park has refused to hold a summit meeting with Mr. Abe and has fired off a steady stream of criticism of the Japanese leader. South Korea considers him a nationalist demagogue trying to glorify his country’s World War II history and to deny responsibility for some of its most horrific elements. Mr. Abe recently raised tensions further by visiting a shrine that honored convicted war criminals.
自去年2月就职以来，朴槿惠一直拒绝和安倍晋三举行首脑会议，并对这位日本领导人持续发起猛烈的抨击。韩国认为他是一个煽动民族主义的政客，试图对他的国家在二战中的历史加以粉饰，拒绝为其中的一些骇人行径负责。安倍晋三近日参拜了供奉有已定罪战犯的神社，令紧张气氛进一步加剧。
During a visit to Seoul last month, Secretary of State John Kerry urged Washington’s two main allies in Northeast Asia to “put history behind” them and work better together to counter North Korea’s nuclear weapons threats and to counterbalance the growing influence of China.
在上月访问首尔时，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)呼吁华盛顿在东北亚的两个主要盟友能“将历史问题抛诸脑后”，更好地携手应对朝鲜核武威胁，并对中国日益增长的影响力加以制衡。
But on Saturday, Ms. Park was not in a conciliatory mood, referring to the Japanese apology that Mr. Abe’s government said was being re-examined.
但是在上周六提到安倍政府重新审视道歉一事时，朴槿惠没有心情谈和解。
Tokyo said Friday that a team of scholars would examine whether the apology issued in 1993 by Tokyo’s chief cabinet secretary at the time, Yohei Kono, had been supported by historical evidence.
东京方面在周五称，一组学者将对1993年时任内阁官房长官的河野洋平(Yohei Kono)发表的道歉加以审视，以判断其是否具备历史依据。
The so-called Kono Statement acknowledged for the first time the use of coercion in recruiting women to provide sex to Japanese soldiers, a stance supported by most scholars of the era. But in recent years, some nationalist politicians in Japan have called for the scrapping of the statement, saying that there was insufficient evidence.
所谓的“河野谈话”是日本第一次承认在征募女性向日本士兵提供性服务时使用了胁迫手段，这种立场在当时得到了绝大多数学者的支持。但近年来，日本一些民族主义政客以证据不充分为由，呼吁推翻这项声明。
“How a nation perceives its history is the compass indicating where it is headed,” Ms. Park said Saturday, reminding Japan that the Kono Statement was one of the key documents on which South Korea had tried to build friendly relations with Tokyo.
“一个民族对自身历史的认知，是其行进方向的指针，”朴槿惠在周六说。她提醒日本，河野谈话是促使韩国与日本建立友好关系的关键文书。
She focused much of her speech on what she described as the urgent need for Japan to resolve long-running grievances over the former sex slaves, who have been campaigning to win compensation from Tokyo.
在演说中，她用了很大的篇幅谈到，昔日的性奴隶多年来难以平复的怨愤，是日本迫切需要去化解的，她们一直在奔走呼吁，要求日方给予赔偿。
Ms. Park said time was running out because only 55 of the 237 South Korean women who had spoken out about their painful experiences were still alive.
朴槿惠说时间已经所剩无几，因为在237位曾公开袒露其痛苦经历的韩国女性中，已经只剩下55位尚在人世。