SEOUL, South Korea — Did a fight over a puppy lead to the vote to impeach South Korea’s leader? A whistle-blower whose account has riveted South Koreans says it did.
韩国首尔——因一条小狗而起的一场争吵，最终导致弹劾韩国领导人的议案经表决获得通过？一名泄密者说情况的确如此。其陈述受到了韩国人的密切关注。
The corruption scandal that engulfed the president, Park Geun-hye, was rooted in her friendship with Choi Soon-sil, her secretive adviser and friend for 40 years. Ms. Choi has been indicted on charges of extorting tens of millions of dollars from big businesses, and prosecutors have identified Ms. Park as a criminal accomplice, a first for a South Korean president.
将朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统吞噬的腐败丑闻，源于她和她的秘密顾问兼40年的老友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)之间的友谊。崔顺实因涉嫌从一些大企业那里敲诈数千万美元而遭到了起诉，而朴槿惠已被检方列为共犯——韩国的总统以前从未遭受过这样的指控。
Ko Young-tae, the whistle-blower, said at a parliamentary hearing this week that he got into an argument with Ms. Choi over walking her daughter’s puppy one day in 2014. He said Ms. Choi became upset when she found the dog alone at his home.
泄密者高永台(Ko Young-Tae)在本周的一场国会听证会上表示，2014年的一天，他和崔顺实因为遛狗的事情吵了起来，狗的主人是后者的女儿。他说崔顺实发现小狗独自待在他家以后变得很生气。
“I didn’t get her call because I was out golfing,” he said. “She was angry that I left the dog alone, and we had a fight.”
“我没有接到她的电话，因为我去打高尔夫了，”他说。“得知我把小狗单独留在家中，她大为光火，我们吵了起来。”
Mr. Ko, 40, a former Asian Games gold medal fencer, said afterward he decided to expose Ms. Choi’s ties with Ms. Park to local news media.
现年40岁的高永台以前是一名击剑运动员，还在亚运会上拿过金牌。他说事后他决定把崔顺实和朴槿惠的关系捅给当地媒体。
Mr. Ko had apparently videotaped Ms. Choi in 2014 giving orders to two presidential aides as though they were servants. In one scene that went viral, one of the aides wiped his smartphone on his shirt before handing it reverentially to Ms. Choi. The footage, aired in October on TV Chosun, left little doubt about Ms. Choi’s influence over Ms. Park.
高永台似乎在2014年录下了崔顺实仿佛对待仆人一般，向总统的两名助手发号施令的情形。一个广为流传的片段显示，其中一名助手先把自己的智能手机擦拭一番，然后才恭恭敬敬地递给崔顺实。朝鲜电视(TV Chosun)于今年10月播放的这个片段，明白无误地证实了崔顺实对朴槿惠的影响力。
Mr. Ko also was said to have an advance copy of Ms. Park’s itinerary for an overseas trip that Ms. Choi had received; it showed that the president had worn certain colors on certain days based on Ms. Choi’s recommendations.
据说高永台手上还握有崔顺实收到过的一份关于朴槿惠某趟海外行程的预览版日程表；这份日程表显示，朴槿惠依照崔顺实的建议，在特定的日子里穿了特定颜色的衣服。
Mr. Ko has become a hero to many in South Korea. “You opened Pandora’s box,” Sohn Hye-won, an opposition lawmaker, said during the hearing.
在韩国，高永台成了很多人心目中的英雄。“你打开了潘多拉的盒子，”反对党议员孙惠源(Sohn Hye-won，音)在听证会上表示。
Even before he gave his account, Mr. Ko had emerged as an intriguing figure in Ms. Park’s corruption scandal, which has involved as many plot twists as the best of Korean soap operas. Local media said he was a former employee at a Seoul “host bar,” where male prostitutes cater to female clients, before he befriended Ms. Choi, 60.
朴槿惠的腐败丑闻像最精彩的韩剧一样包含很多曲折的情节，而高永台早在做出陈述之前，就是这起丑闻中的一个有趣的人物。当地媒体称，高永台在和现年60岁的崔顺实打得火热之前，曾受雇于首尔的一家“牛郎店”，也就是男妓为女性客户服务的地方。
In his testimony, Mr. Ko denied that he and Ms. Choi had been a couple.
高永台在证词中否认他和崔顺实曾是一对情侣。
He said a friend introduced him to Ms. Choi in 2012, when he was running a handbag and clothing company called Villomillo. Ms. Choi ordered 100 pieces of clothes and 40 handbags made of ostrich skin and crocodile leather. The items were delivered to Ms. Park, who was later seen toting Villomillo handbags.
他说一个朋友在2012年把他介绍给了崔顺实，当时他经营着一家名为Villomillo的手袋和服装公司。崔顺实订购了100件衣服以及40个鸵鸟皮和鳄鱼皮手袋。这些东西被送到了朴槿惠那里，不久后人们就发现她挎着Villomillo手袋。
(Ms. Park’s office said she paid for the items, denying opposition lawmakers’ allegations that they were bribes from Ms. Choi.)
（朴槿惠的办公室称这些东西是她花钱买下的，否认了反对党议员关于朴槿惠收受崔顺实贿赂的指控。）
Mr. Ko said he handed over his video footage to TV Chosun last year, but it was not broadcast until Oct. 25.
高永台说他在去年把视频片段交给了朝鲜电视，但直到今年10月25日相关片段才得以播出。
A day earlier, on Oct. 24, the rival cable channel JTBC broadcast what was considered the biggest media scoop connected to the scandal. One of its reporters obtained a discarded tablet computer that it said had belonged to Ms. Choi.
前一天，也就是10月24日，和朝鲜电视存在竞争关系的有线电视台中央东洋广播公司（简称JTBC ），播出了与这起丑闻有关的一条被认为最具爆炸性的独家新闻。JTBC的一名记者拿到了一部被丢弃的平板电脑，JTBC说这部电脑曾为崔顺实所有。
Files discovered there included drafts of 44 speeches and statements that Ms. Park had given between 2012 and 2014, as a candidate and later as president. Many passages were marked in red.
在电脑中找到的文件，包括朴槿惠从2012年到2014年的44份演讲稿和发言稿的草稿，那期间她的身份从总统候选人变成了总统。很多段落都有标红的痕迹。
“The only thing Ms. Choi did well was to edit President Park’s speeches,” Mr. Ko told JTBC in October. (Ms. Park has since acknowledged that she asked for Ms. Choi’s feedback on her speech drafts.)
“崔女士唯一擅长的一件事就是编辑朴总统的演讲稿，”高永台在10月份告诉JTBC。（朴槿惠随后承认，她曾就演讲稿的草稿征求崔顺实的意见。）
South Koreans were outraged that Ms. Park let Ms. Choi, who had no experience in government, edit some of her most important speeches. The allegation was particularly damning because Ms. Park was known for shunning one-on-one meetings with her own official aides.
朴槿惠竟然把她的某些最重要的演讲稿交给毫无执政理国经验的崔顺实去编辑，这令韩国人怒不可遏。这是一项极具威力的指控，因为朴槿惠以避免与其手下官员进行一对一会晤而闻名。
Mr. Ko said Ms. Choi’s behavior made him believe she was the most powerful person in Ms. Park’s government.
高永台说，崔顺实的行为举止让他相信，她是朴槿惠政府中最有权势的人物。
“She insulted me and acted as if her underlings were subhuman,” Mr. Ko said.
“她侮辱过我，而且根本不把她的下属当人，”高永台说。