SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said Tuesday that she was willing to resign before her term ends, in an effort to head off a pending impeachment vote over a devastating corruption scandal.
韩国首尔——韩国总统朴槿惠周二表示，她愿意在任期结束之前辞职，这是她为避免因一场毁灭性腐败丑闻即将进行弹劾投票所做的努力。
“I am giving up everything now,” she said in a dramatic televised address, offering her third public apology for the scandal that has paralyzed her government for weeks.
“我现在将要放弃一切，”她在电视台发表的情绪激动的讲话中说，她还为导致其政府瘫痪几周的丑闻第三次作了公开道歉。
But opposition lawmakers immediately rejected the offer, calling it a ploy meant to divide her political opponents and allow Ms. Park to survive in office, and they vowed to proceed with a call for an impeachment vote on Friday.
但反对党立法者马上拒绝了这个提议，称其为旨在分裂朴槿惠的政治反对者、让她能继续待在总统位置上的花招，他们发誓要在周五继续呼吁进行弹劾投票。
In her speech, Ms. Park admitted no legal wrongdoing and did not give a date for her resignation, saying she would let the National Assembly decide.
朴槿惠在演讲中没有承认做了犯法的事情，也没有给出她辞职的日期，表示她将让国会来决定。
“If the governing and opposition parties inform me of the way to minimize the confusion and vacuum in state affairs and ensure a stable transfer of power,” she said, “I will step down as president according to their schedule and legal procedures.”
她说，“如果执政党和反对党告诉我一个方法，来尽量减少国家事务上的混乱和真空，并确保权力稳定移交的话，我将根据他们制定的时间表和法律程序辞职。”
Opposition lawmakers said the offer was an attempt to buy time, in hopes that the opposition parties and members of her party who have supported impeachment would bicker over when she should step down and on whether impeachment should proceed.
反对党议员说，她是在试图争取时间，希望在反对党与支持弹劾她的本党成员之间，就她应该何时下台、以及是否应该被弹劾的问题上引发争吵。
“This is nothing but a sly trick to avoid impeachment,” said Youn Kwan-suk, a spokesman for the main opposition Democratic Party. “What the people wanted was her immediate resignation.”
“这只不过是为了避免弹劾的狡猾伎俩，”主要反对党民主党(Democratic Party)的发言人尹冠石（Youn Kwan-suk，音）说。“民众想要的是她立即辞职。”
Before Ms. Park’s televised address, even staunch allies in her party, Saenuri, had begun appealing to her to choose an “honorable retreat,” as opposition lawmakers have put it. After the speech, some of those people embraced her initiative, calling on lawmakers to discuss the offer rather than try to impeach her.
在朴槿惠发表电视讲话之前，就连她所在政党新国家党(Saenuri)里的忠实盟友也开始呼吁她选择“体面的隐退”，就像反对派议员所说的那样。讲话结束后，他们中的一些人接受了她的提议，呼吁议员就此进行讨论而不是尝试弹劾她。
Ms. Park’s five-year term is scheduled to end in February 2018. If she resigned, she would be the first South Korean president to do so since 1960, when Syngman Rhee, the country’s founding president, fled into exile in Hawaii during popular uprisings against his corrupt, authoritarian government.
朴槿惠的五年任期定于2018年2月结束。如果辞职，她将是韩国自1960年韩国开国总统李承晚(Syngman Rhee)因民众反抗他领导的威权主义腐败政府而流亡夏威夷以来，首位辞职的总统。
Ms. Park’s statement followed mounting pressure from ordinary South Koreans, who have taken to the streets in large numbers for five straight Saturdays to demand that she resign or be impeached and arrested.
发表声明前，普通韩国民众对朴槿惠施加的压力与日俱增。他们连续五个周六大规模地走上街头，要求她辞职或接受弹劾、逮捕。
The scandal engulfing Ms. Park’s government involves a longtime friend and secretive adviser to the president, Choi Soon-sil, who has been charged with extorting the equivalent of tens of millions of dollars from South Korean businesses. Prosecutors have said that Ms. Park helped her to do so.
这场吞没朴槿惠政府的丑闻涉及她多年的朋友兼秘密顾问崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)，后者被控从韩国企业勒索相当于数千万美元的钱财。检方称她这么做得到了朴槿惠的帮助。
Ms. Park cannot be indicted while in office, but she has been officially identified as a criminal suspect, a first for a president. Ms. Park has also been accused of helping Ms. Choi illegally gain access to confidential government documents.
朴槿惠在位期间不会受到指控，但她已被正式确认为犯罪嫌疑人，对于一位总统来说这种情况尚属首次。朴槿惠还被控帮助崔顺实非法获取机密的政府文件。
Those who called for Ms. Park’s resignation have said it would spare the country several months of political uncertainty that a presidential impeachment would entail. If the National Assembly voted to impeach her, the deeply unpopular Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn, who is not an elected official, would serve as acting president while the Constitutional Court took up to six months to decide whether to ratify the impeachment vote.
要求朴槿惠辞职的人表示，这样可以为国家免去总统弹劾带来的长达数月的政治不确定性。如果国民大会投票支持弹劾，宪法法院(Constitutional Court)决定是否正式批准弹劾投票所需的时间最长可达六个月。在此期间，极其不得人心的总理、非民选官员黃教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)将担任代理总统。
During her speech Tuesday, Ms. Park said she had “agonized over countless nights” asking herself what was the best thing she could do for the country. She said her offer to step down would help defuse the political uncertainty and “put the country back on track.”
周二发表讲话期间，朴槿惠自称“无数个夜里痛苦思索”，问自己能为国家做的最好的事情是什么。她说，下台的提议将有助于降低政治不确定性并“让国家重回正轨”。
Before Tuesday, Ms. Park, speaking through her spokesman and her lawyer, had contended that the scandal did not justify cutting short her term. On Tuesday, she insisted that she did not profit from Ms. Choi’s alleged influence-peddling.
周二之前，朴槿惠通过发言人和律师表示，丑闻不是缩短其任期的理由。周二当天，她坚称自己没有从崔顺实被控的以权谋私中获利。
But in the past several days, she has come under increasingly vocal pressure to step down. Her approval ratings plunged to the low single digits, and dozens of lawmakers from her party were said to have decided to break ranks on impeachment, giving the measure enough votes to pass in the 300-seat National Assembly. It was not immediately clear whether any of them had changed their minds after Ms. Park’s speech.
但过去几天里，她面临的下台呼声日益高涨。她的民意支持率低至个位数，据说她所在政党内部的数十名议员已决定在弹劾一事上采取与政党意见不一致的态度，这会让弹劾提议在300个议席组成的国民大会获得足够的票数。目前尚无法立即得知朴槿惠发表讲话后，他们当中是否有人改变主意。
Last week, her justice minister resigned, citing his inability to serve her during the scandal. On Sunday, 20 former parliamentary speakers, former prime ministers and religious leaders asked her to step down by April, so that the country and its political parties have enough time to prepare for the presidential election. By law, if the president resigns, the country must hold an election in 60 days.
上周，朴槿惠政府的司法部长以无力在这场丑闻期间为她效力为由辞职。周日，20名前议长、前总理和宗教领袖要求她在4月之前下台，以便国家和各政党有足够的时间为大选做准备。按照法律，如果总统辞职，国家必须在60天内举行选举。
Ms. Park suffered another blow on Monday, when important members of her party who had remained loyal to her urged her to step down. On Tuesday, before her speech, 25 first-term lawmakers from her party made the same appeal.
周一，朴槿惠再次受到打击，党内一直忠于她的重要成员敦促她下台。周二当天，在她发表讲话前，党内25名首次当选的议员发出了同样的呼吁。