SEOUL, South Korea — Oral arguments began on Thursday in the impeachment trial of President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, with one of her lawyers saying that she was a victim of mob justice and comparing her trial with those of Christ and Socrates.
韩国首尔——周四，韩国总统朴槿惠弹劾审判的口头辩论开始，她的一名律师称她是暴民正义的受害者，并将她的审判与耶稣(Christ)和苏格拉底(Socrates)的审判相提并论。
“Socrates was put to death, and Jesus crucified, in mob trials,” the lawyer, Seo Seok-gu, told the Constitutional Court, denouncing the National Assembly’s vote to impeach Ms. Park and criticizing local news coverage of the corruption scandal that has engulfed her in recent months. “Our democracy is in danger because of so-called majority opinion instigated through demagogy,” he said.
“在暴民审判中，苏格拉底被处死，耶稣被钉在了十字架上，”律师徐石久（Seo Seok-gu，音）对宪法法院(Constitutional Court)讲道，他还谴责国民大会(National Assembly)投票决定弹劾朴槿惠，并对最近几个月严重影响她的有关腐败丑闻的新闻报道进行指责。“由蛊惑人心的言论煽动的所谓多数人意见，令我们的民主受到威胁，”他说。
The Constitutional Court has until June to decide whether the National Assembly’s Dec. 9 vote to impeach Ms. Park was justified; if so, the president, whose powers have been suspended, will be formally removed from office.
宪法法院要在6月之前决定国民大会12月9日得出的弹劾朴槿惠的投票结果是否合理；如果的确合理，这名已经被停职的总统将被正式免职。
Ms. Park did not appear in court on Thursday. Her lawyers have said that she does not plan to attend the proceedings.
朴槿惠周四没有出现在法庭上。她的律师表示，她不打算出庭。
The National Assembly, South Korea’s legislature, has accused Ms. Park of conspiring with a longtime friend and confidante, Choi Soon-sil, to extort $69 million from big businesses in return for political favors, like presidential pardons for company leaders convicted of corruption. Ms. Choi, who has been portrayed as a Rasputin-like figure in Ms. Park’s presidential Blue House, has been indicted on charges of corruption, and prosecutors have named Ms. Park as an accomplice, though she cannot be indicted while in office.
韩国立法机构国民大会指控朴槿惠与其老友兼闺蜜崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)从大企业敲诈6900万美元，以政治好处作为回报，比如由总统特赦被指控腐败的企业领导人。崔顺实被描绘成总统府青瓦台里的一个拉斯普廷(Rasputin)式人物，她遭到了腐败指控。朴槿惠则被检方指为共犯，不过她在位期间不能被起诉。
In a separate hearing at a Seoul district court on Thursday, Ms. Choi denied the charges against her, calling them unfair.
在首尔地区法院周四单独进行的一场听证会上，崔顺实否认了对她的指控，称它们不公正。
The legislature has also accused Ms. Park of undermining freedom of the press by cracking down on her critics in the news media, and of failing to protect citizens in a 2014 ferry disaster that killed over 300 people. Ms. Park’s approval ratings fell to record lows for a South Korean president before the National Assembly voted for impeachment, and enormous crowds have gathered weekly in central Seoul calling for an end to her presidency.
国民大会还指控朴槿惠压制媒体对她的批评，破坏言论自由，并指责她未能保护2014年渡轮沉没事件中遇难的300多名受害者。在国民大会投票决定弹劾她之前，朴槿惠的支持率已经跌破韩国总统历史最低纪录，有大批民众每周聚集在首尔中心，要求她下台。
Kweon Seong-dong, the lead attorney arguing for impeachment on behalf of the National Assembly, told the court on Thursday that the accusations against Ms. Park amounted to a “wide range of serious violations” of the law and of the Constitution.
代表国民大会主张弹劾的首席检察官权相东（Kweon Seong-dong，音）周四在法庭上表示，朴槿惠犯下的是对法律和宪法“范围广且性质严重的侵犯”。
“Through this trial, we must confirm a constitutional principle that we cannot tolerate a president who abuses power and betrays the trust of the people,” Mr. Kweon said.
“通过这场审判，我们必须确认一条宪法原则，即我们不能容忍一名滥用权力、辜负民众信任的总统，”权相东说道。
But Ms. Park’s lead attorney, Lee Joong-hwan, said there were no legal grounds for impeachment, citing what he called a lack of evidence. He said Ms. Park had made some “trivial” mistakes — like seeking feedback on some of her speeches from Ms. Choi, who held no official post — but that none were serious enough to warrant removal from office.
但朴槿惠的首席律师李政焕（ Lee Joong-hwan，音）表示，弹劾没有法律依据，理由就是他所说的缺乏证据。他表示，朴槿惠的确犯了一些“小”错误——比如向没有官职的崔顺实寻求演讲稿的反馈意见——但哪一项都不足以将她免职。
The most dramatic argument on Ms. Park’s behalf, however, came from Mr. Seo. Besides referring to Christ and Socrates, he argued that the anti-Park rallies had been organized by communists who sympathize with North Korea, a belief held by some of the president’s older, conservative supporters. “Their candlelight protests didn’t reflect the true sentiments of the people,” he said.
然而，代表朴槿惠发出最引人注目观点的人是徐石久。除了提及耶稣和苏格拉底，他还称反朴槿惠的集会活动是由同情朝鲜的共产主义者所组织，这是这名总统一些比较年长的保守派支持者所持的观点。“他们的烛光抗议行动反映的并不是真实的民众情绪，”他说。
Mr. Seo also appealed for “God’s blessings” to protect the court from communist influences. Many of Ms. Park’s remaining supporters are vocal Christians; outside the court on Thursday, a few of them read from Bibles and prayed for the president.
徐石久还祈求“上帝保佑”法院不受共产主义者的影响。朴槿惠残存的支持者中有不少人是直言不讳的基督徒；周四有几个这样的人在法院外朗读《圣经》，为这位总统祈祷。
The Constitutional Court had hoped to hear testimony on Thursday from four of Ms. Park’s former and current aides, but only one appeared: Yoon Jeon-chu, the president’s physical trainer and personal secretary. The court cannot compel witnesses to testify, though they can be penalized if they refuse a summons.
宪法法院原本希望在周四听取朴槿惠四名前任和现任助手的证词，但当天只有一人现身：总统的体能教练和私人秘书尹允珠（Yoon Jeon-chu，音）。法院不能强迫证人作证，但如果他们拒绝接受传唤，则会遭到处罚。
Ms. Yoon did not answer many of the prosecutors’ questions, citing poor memory or an obligation not to divulge secrets. But she gave a detailed account of delivering payments for dresses that Ms. Choi had ordered for the president. South Korean news media have alleged that those dresses might have amounted to bribes from Ms. Choi, though the president’s office said Ms. Park had paid for them; Ms. Yoon said she had paid a dress shop for them on Ms. Park’s instructions, though she said she did not get receipts.
尹允柱没有回答检察官的太多问题，理由是记不清，或不能泄密。但她详细描述了为崔顺实给总统订购的衣服付款的情况。韩国媒体声称，这些衣服可能相当于崔顺实的贿赂，尽管总统府表示它们是由朴槿惠埋单；尹允柱表示她曾在朴槿惠的指示下，向一家服装店支付衣服款项，尽管她说自己没有拿收据。
If the court removes Ms. Park from office, she would be the first president in South Korea to not finish a full term since the country became a democracy. An election would then be held in 60 days to choose her successor.
如果法院决定免除朴槿惠的职位，她将成为韩国实施民主政体以来首位没有完成一个完整任期的总统。接着在60天后，韩国将会举行选举，选出她的继任者。