SEOUL, South Korea — A former justice handpicked to be South Korea’s new prime minister stepped aside on Wednesday, dealing a blow to President Park Geun-hye’s efforts to regroup her government in the wake of a fatal ferry disaster.
韩国首尔——曾任法官的韩国国务总理候选人周三选择退出，这为韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在沉船事故之后整顿内阁的努力带来沉重打击。
Ahn Dae-hee, a former Supreme Court justice whose confirmation hearing had been scheduled for early June in the National Assembly, was appointed by Ms. Park last Thursday to replace the departing prime minister, Chung Hong-won.
安大熙(Ahn Dae-hee)的提名确认听证会原定于6月初在韩国国会(National Assembly)举行。他曾任前大法院大法官，上周四被朴槿惠提名为总理候选人，以接替即将离任的总理郑烘原(Chung Hong-won)。
Mr. Chung offered to resign last month, becoming the highest-ranking official to lose his job as Ms. Park’s government took the blame for the April 16 ferry sinking, which left over 300 people, the majority of them high school students, dead or missing.
郑烘原上月提出辞职，成为朴槿惠政府为4月16日的沉船事故承担起责任的过程中，去职的最高级别官员。这起事故导致300多人死亡或失踪，其中多为高中学生。
Before becoming a Supreme Court justice, the prime minister-designate had served as a prosecutor and built a reputation for fighting corruption among the country’s elite. But a string of revelations has emerged since his appointment that has tarnished his image, particularly the fact that within five months of opening his law firm last year, Mr. Ahn had collected 1.6 billion won, or $1.6 million, in legal fees.
在成为大法院法官之前，这位总理候选人曾任检察官，并因为打击韩国权贵的贪腐问题而广受赞誉。但自从他被提名之后，一连串有损其声誉的消息被曝光，特别是这样一个事实：在去年自己开办律所后的五个月内，安大熙共获得16亿韩元（约合1001万人民币），即160万美元的律师费收入。
No evidence has emerged that Mr. Ahn did anything illegal to receive that income, but the opposition, raising the notion of corruption, had called on Ms. Park to withdraw his nomination.
目前没有证据证明这些收入是非法所得，但反对者以腐败为由，呼吁朴槿惠收回对他的提名。
In South Korea, clients willing to pay high legal fees are believed to flock to recently retired senior judges and prosecutors because they are expected to win cases they handle as lawyers, according to the South Korean news media and civic watchdogs of the legal system. Most judges and prosecutors in the country become lawyers soon after retirement, and sitting judges and prosecutors have often been accused of helping their former colleagues or bosses win cases in the first years of their retirement.
据韩国新闻媒体和监督法律体系的公民团体称，在韩国，愿意支付高昂律师费的客户据信都会聘请退休不久的高级法官或检察官，因为预计这两类人会帮助他们赢得诉讼。大多数法官和检察官在退休后不久就开始做律师，在任的法官和检察官也经常被指控帮助刚退休没几年的前同事或上司赢得官司。
The controversy over Mr. Ahn’s professional history has rekindled the long-running controversy over the alleged practice, one of the public’s most serious grievances against the legal system.
安大熙的职业经历再次点燃了有关上述现象的说法引发的长期争议，这种现象已经引起了公众对法律体系的强烈不满。
“I am sorry for troubling the people with various suspicions about me,” Mr. Ahn said during a nationally televised news conference on Wednesday. “I have decided that if I stayed on as prime minister-appointee, I would be a burden on the government.”
“很抱歉，有关我的种种猜测让许多人感到不安，”安大熙周三在面向全国电视观众的新闻发布会上说。“我认为，如果我继续作为提名总理，会成为政府的负担。”
Min Kyung-wook, Ms. Park’s spokesman, said the president was sorry about Mr. Ahn’s withdrawal.
朴槿惠的发言人闵耿昱（Min Kyung-wook，音译）说，朴槿惠对安大熙放弃提名表示遗憾。
When announcing Mr. Ahn’s nomination last week, the president’s office said it hoped that Mr. Ahn would help lead Ms. Park’s efforts to fight corrupt links between government regulators and the industries they help oversee, one of the problems that analysts say has led to safety problems.
上周宣布安大熙的提名决定时，总统办公室说，希望安大熙能够帮助引领这届政府，去打击政府监管人员和被监管行业间的腐败链条。分析人士说，这种腐败是引发安全问题的原因之一。
Investigators of the ferry disaster have revealed violations of safety measures by the ship’s crew and operator, as well as by industry regulators.
国务总理是韩国政府的二号人物，在韩国政府中，总统拥有行政权力。