SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye of South Korea warned on Monday that there would be more provocations from North Korea after the North’s fifth nuclear test last week, adding that they could raise the danger of war on the Korean Peninsula.
韩国首尔——韩国总统朴槿惠周一警告说，朝鲜上周进行了第五次核试验后将会有更多的挑衅行为，并补充说，这些行为可能会增加朝鲜半岛发生战争的危险。
Ms. Park issued the warning when she met the leaders of opposition political parties to appeal for a united front against what she called the North’s “maniacal obsession” with building a nuclear arsenal.
朴槿惠是在与反对派政党领导人会面时发出这个警告的，她呼吁成立统一战线，以对抗她之称为朝鲜建造核武库的“疯狂的不可救药行为”。
Ms. Park has become increasingly critical of the North since the test on Friday, when she said that its leader, Kim Jong-un, was guilty of “fanatical recklessness” and that “his mental condition should be considered out of control.”
自上周五的核试验以来，朴槿惠越来越强烈地批评朝鲜，她在上周五曾批评朝鲜领导人金正恩“狂热鲁莽”，还说“他的精神状况应该被认为是失控的”。
On Monday, she ruled out dialogue with the country, saying that its nuclear program was “not a bargaining chip” but a “present and urgent threat” to her country’s security. She said such discussions would only buy the North more time to perfect its nuclear weapons. China and Russia and opposition parties in South Korea called for talks with North Korea, insisting that sanctions alone could not end its nuclear ambitions.
周一，朴槿惠排除了与朝鲜进行对话的可能，她说，朝鲜的核计划“不是一个谈判的筹码”，而是对韩国安全的“当前紧迫威胁”。她说，对话只会让朝鲜有更多的时间来完善其核武器。中国和俄罗斯、以及韩国的反对党曾呼吁与朝鲜举行会谈，他们都坚持认为紧靠制裁不能结束朝鲜的核野心。
“We are now facing a very serious security situation that is different from the past,” Ms. Park told the opposition leaders, according to a statement released by her office. “North Korea is claiming that it will carry out more provocations, and that could lead to danger of war on the Korean Peninsula or take various forms such as terrorist attacks and local provocations.”
“我们现在正面临着一个非常严重的、与以往不同的安全情况，”据总统办公室发布的一份声明，朴槿惠对反对派领导人说。“朝鲜声称它会做出更多的挑衅行为，这可能导致朝鲜半岛出现战争的危险，也有其他形式的危险，比如恐怖袭击和局部的挑衅。”
The nuclear test on Friday was the most powerful by the North to date, and the government later claimed to have tested a “standardized” warhead to be fitted on its ballistic missiles. Although that claim cannot be independently verified, the latest test fueled regional fears over a growing nuclear threat. The United States and its allies are urging the United Nations Security Council to pass stronger sanctions against the North.
上周五的核试验是朝鲜迄今为止能量最大的一次，朝鲜政府后来声称，已经测试一种“标准的”核弹头，能安装在其弹道导弹上。尽管这种说法无法被独立核实，但最新的测试增添了人们对该地区不断增长的核威胁的担忧。美国及其盟友正在敦促联合国安理会通过对朝鲜的更严厉的制裁决定。
Earlier Monday, the South Korean Defense Ministry said the North had the ability to conduct another nuclear test anytime at its Punggye-ri test site, where all five underground nuclear tests have occurred. South Korean officials said the site still had a couple of spare tunnels where the North could detonate a nuclear device if it wanted.
周一早些时候，韩国国防部表示，朝鲜已经具有任何时候在丰溪里测试基地再次进行核试验的能力，五次地下核试验都是在这个地方进行的。韩国官员表示，该基地仍有几条备用隧道，如果朝鲜想干的话，它能在其中一条隧道引爆一个核装置。
The opposition leaders joined Ms. Park in condemning the North Korean nuclear test, but they accused her of using the North Korean threat to suppress dissent at home. They told Ms. Park that they opposed her decision to deploy an American-backed missile defense system called Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad, in the South by late next year.
反对派领导人与朴槿惠一起谴责了朝鲜的核试验，但他们也指责朴槿惠利用朝鲜的威胁在国内压制异己。他们对朴槿惠说，他们反对她做出的、明年年底在韩国部署名为“末段高空区域防御系统”(Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”[Thaad])的美国支持的导弹防御系统。
They said the move would only further antagonize North Korea and alienate China. Beijing has opposed the system, saying that its powerful radar would be used to track China’s missiles. The United States says the system is intended to shield South Korea and American military bases there from North Korean missiles.
他们表示，部署萨德只会进一步激怒朝鲜，疏远中国。北京一直反对部署萨德，称其强大的雷达将被用于跟踪中国的导弹。美国则表示，萨德的目的是为韩国及美国在韩国的军事基地提供针对朝鲜导弹的防御。
For its part, a United Nations relief agency reported that floods caused by heavy rains in northern North Korea last month killed 133 people and left 395 missing.
就其本身而言，联合国救济机构报告说，朝鲜北部上月的暴雨造成的洪灾已导致133人死亡、395人失踪。
Citing figures from the North Korean government, the agency, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, also said that more than 35,500 houses and 8,700 schools and other buildings were damaged, as well as almost 40,000 acres of arable land.
联合国人道主义事务协调厅援引朝鲜政府的数据表示，已有逾35,500个房屋、8700所学校以及其他建筑受损，还有近4万亩耕地受损。
At least 140,000 people were in urgent need of assistance, the agency said in a statement posted on its website.
该机构在网站上发布的一份声明中说，至少有14万人急需援助。
Last week, North Korea’s official news media reported 60 deaths and 25 people missing in the floods that hit towns near the Tumen River, which borders China. On Sunday, it said the country was dispatching officials and workers there for urgent relief work.
上周，朝鲜官方新闻媒体曾报道，在与中国接壤的图们江附近发生的洪水，已导致60人死亡、25人失踪。周日，朝鲜官方表示，政府已派遣官员和工作人员前往那里进行紧急救援工作。
With its mountains stripped bare for firewood and turned into terraced farm patches, North Korea has frequently experienced floods and droughts. In 2012, it reported that at least 169 people had died in floods.
因为砍柴、以及开发梯田，朝鲜的山已变得山光秃秃的，经常会发生旱涝灾害。2012年，朝鲜曾报告说，至少有169人死于洪灾。
A series of floods and droughts led to a famine in the mid- and late 1990s that killed more than a million people, by some estimates.
一系列的旱涝灾害导致20世纪90年代中期和后期的饥荒，据某种估计，饥荒导致逾100万人死亡。
The country still has a chronic food shortage, leaving its children and nursing mothers particularly vulnerable to malnutrition, according to the United Nations.
联合国表示，朝鲜仍面临长期的粮食短缺问题，这让该国的儿童和正在哺乳母亲特别容易出现营养不良情况。