SEOUL, South Korea —South Korean lawmakers say they will soon try to impeach President Park Geun-hye, who is accused of helping a friend commit extortion. If they force her from office, it will be a first for South Korea, but the process is a long and uncertain one. Here’s what you need to know:
韩国首尔——韩国议员称，他们将很快做出表决，尝试弹劾被指帮助朋友进行敲诈的总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)。如果他们迫使她下台，她将成为韩国历史上首位遭到弹劾的总统，不过这将是一个漫长而不确定的过程。下面是你需要知道的一些情况：
What is Ms. Park accused of?
朴槿惠遭到了哪些指控？
Prosecutors say Ms. Park conspired with Choi Soon-sil, an old friend, to extort the equivalent of tens of millions of dollars from South Korean businesses. Ms. Park cannot be indicted while in office, but she has been officially identified as a criminal suspect, which had never happened to a president before.
检察官称，朴槿惠与老朋友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)合谋从韩国大公司敲诈了数千万美元。朴槿惠在任期间不能遭到指控，但她已被正式列为刑事嫌疑人——以前的总统从未出现过这种情况。
She has also been accused of helping Ms. Choi illegally gain access to confidential government documents. Opposition parties say the combined allegations are serious enough to warrant her removal from power; some members of her own party agree, as do leading South Korean newspapers and most of the public, according to polls. Huge protests have been held in Seoul demanding that Ms. Park step down, but she has refused.
她还被指控帮助崔顺实非法获取政府机密文件。反对党派称，这两项指控非常严重，足以要求她下台。据民意调查，她本党派的某些成员以及韩国的一些主要报纸和大部分公众也对此表示赞同。首尔举行了要求朴槿惠下台的大规模抗议，但她拒绝辞职。
What happens next?
接下来会发生什么？
The 300-member National Assembly is expected to vote on an impeachment bill before Dec. 9, when the legislative session ends. If 200 members vote yes, Ms. Park will be impeached.
韩国国民大会(National Assembly)的300名议员将在12月9日立法会议结束前就弹劾议案进行投票。如果有200名议员投票赞同，朴槿惠将遭到弹劾。
Is impeachment likely?
弹劾是否有可能实现？
It’s quite possible. There are 172 opposition and independent lawmakers who want Ms. Park removed, which means they need 28 of the 128 lawmakers from her conservative Saenuri Party to join them. Several have already said that they will, and some domestic news outlets and members of the party expect 30 to 40 of its lawmakers to break ranks.
很有可能。172名反对派和独立党派议员希望朴槿惠下台，这意味着他们需要得到她所在的保守派新国家党(Saenuri Party)128议员中的28位的支持。有几名议员已经表示会投赞成票，韩国的一些新闻媒体和该党成员预计，会有30至40名议员倒戈。
Would that be it — the end of the Park presidency?
这样就行了吗——朴槿惠的总统任期就结束了吗？
Not yet. She would be suspended, and the country’s No. 2 official, Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn, would become acting president. But the Constitutional Court would then have to rule on whether her impeachment was justified. It would have 180 days to do so.
还没有。她将被停职，排名第二位的总理黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)将成为代理总统。不过之后，宪法法庭(Constitutional Court)必须就弹劾是否合法做出裁决。它有180天时间做出这项裁决。
If six members of the nine-judge court support the impeachment, Ms. Park will be formally removed from office. South Korea will have 60 days to elect a successor, with Mr. Hwang carrying out her duties in the meantime. But if fewer than six judges do so, Ms. Park will immediately return to power. (Ms. Park moved this month to replace Mr. Hwang, but the National Assembly has not approved the replacment.)
如果宪法法庭的9名法官中有6人支持弹劾，朴槿惠将正式下野。韩国将有60天时间选举继任总统，在此期间，黄教安将代为履行总统职责。但是，如果支持弹劾的法官不足6人，朴槿惠将立刻复职（本月，朴槿惠曾试图撤换黄教安，但国民大会没有批准）。
It’s hard to guess how the court would vote. Six of its judges were appointed by Ms. Park or her conservative predecessor, or are otherwise seen as being close to the Saenuri Party. But plenty of South Korean conservatives think Ms. Park should go.
很难预测法庭的投票情况。有6名法官是朴槿惠或其保守派前任任命的，或被认为与新国家党关系密切。不过，韩国的很多保守派认为，朴槿惠应该下台。
And there could be another complication: Two of the judges are set to retire by March. If the court has not ruled by then, some legal scholars say, those judges could not be replaced, because the president formally appoints them (and Ms. Park would still be suspended). That would make a ruling in Ms. Park’s favor more likely, because six of the remaining seven judges would have to uphold her impeachment.
还可能出现另一个复杂情况：有两名法官将于明年3月退休。有些法律学者称，如果届时法庭仍未做出裁决，那么将无人能够代替那些法官，因为法官需要由总统正式任命（届时朴槿惠仍将处于停职状态）。那将更可能出现有利于朴槿惠的裁决，因为剩下的7名法官中必须有6人支持弹劾，它才可能生效。
And some scholars say that if one of the seven, for any reason, were unable to serve, the court would not be able to rule at all. No one knows what would happen then.
有些学者称，如果7名法官中有一人因任何原因无法履职，那么该法庭将完全无法进行裁决。谁也不知道到时候该怎么办。
Has a South Korean president ever been impeached before?
是否曾有韩国总统遭到弹劾？
Only once — in 2004, when President Roh Moo-hyun was accused of calling on voters to support his party in parliamentary elections. That was said to violate an election law requiring the president to remain neutral. (While Ms. Park’s critics say she is too aloof, Mr. Roh, who died in 2009, was often accused of speaking too freely.)
只有一次——2004年，卢武铉(Roh Moo-hyun)被指控号召投票者在议会选举中支持他的政党。此举被认为是违反选举法，因为该法要求总统保持中立（朴槿惠的批评者说她寡言少语，而2009年去世的卢武铉经常被指责讲话太随意）。
Mr. Roh was suspended, but the impeachment vote enraged many South Koreans, who demonstrated in large numbers and gave his party a landslide victory at the polls. The Constitutional Court later ruled that Mr. Roh’s impeachment was not merited, saying his breaches of the election law were relatively minor, and he was returned to office.
当时卢武铉被停职，但弹劾投票激怒了很多韩国人，他们举行大规模示威，促使他的政党在选举中获得压倒性胜利。宪法法庭后来裁定卢武铉不应遭到弹劾，称他违反选举法的程度相对较轻，他被复职。
Who, incidentally, is Choi Soon-sil?
顺便问一句，谁是崔顺实？
She is the daughter of a cult leader who befriended Ms. Park in the 1970s, when Ms. Park was a young woman and her father, Park Chung-hee, was South Korea’s dictator. Lurid rumors about Ms. Park’s connection to the Choi family have dogged her for years, and many South Koreans have come to believe that Ms. Choi wields a sinister, cultlike influence over the president.
她是一名边缘宗教教主的女儿，在上世纪70年代成为朴槿惠的朋友。当时朴还很年轻，她的父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)是韩国的独裁者。关于朴崔两家有许多耸人听闻的传言，多年来一直纠缠着她，很多韩国人慢慢开始相信，崔对这位总统施加了类似邪教的邪恶影响。
Ms. Choi was arrested this month and charged with extortion and fraud, and prosecutors said they considered Ms. Park an accomplice.
崔本月被捕，被指控敲诈罪和诈骗罪。检察官们称，他们认为朴是同谋。
Though Ms. Park cannot be indicted while in office, prosecutors could pursue charges against her after her term ends in February 2018. The Constitution says presidents can serve only one term.
虽然朴在任期间不能遭到起诉，但2018年2月她的任期结束后就可以了。韩国宪法规定，总统不能连任。