SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye on Tuesday approved a military intelligence-sharing pact with Japan aimed at countering the North Korean threat, a move that angered South Korean opposition parties, which want to impeach Ms. Park over a corruption scandal.
韩国首尔――韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)于周二批准了一项与日本分享军事情报的协定，旨在对抗来自朝鲜的威胁，这一举动激怒了想要就腐败丑闻弹劾朴槿惠的几个韩国反对党。
The United States, an ally of both South Korea and Japan, has pressed them to increase military cooperation so the three countries can more effectively monitor and confront threats from the North, whose development of nuclear arms and missiles has been accelerating. Currently, Japan and South Korea use Washington as an intermediary when sharing intelligence on North Korea.
韩国和日本都是美国的盟国，美国敦促它们加强军事合作，令三个国家可以更为有效地监控和应对来自朝鲜的威胁，朝鲜已加速了发展核武器与导弹的步伐。目前，日本和韩国在分享与朝鲜有关的情报时通过华盛顿作为中介。
But South Koreans are wary of cooperating too closely with Japan, which ruled Korea as a colony for 35 years until the end of World War II. Many of the protesters who have been demanding that Ms. Park resign over the corruption scandal have also insisted that she cancel the negotiations with Japan.
但是韩国人唯恐与日本的合作过于密切，日本曾将韩国作为殖民地统治了35年，直到第二次世界大战结束。许多曾要求朴槿惠因腐败丑闻辞去职务的抗议者也坚持要求她取消与日本的谈判。
Ms. Park has been accused of conspiring with a friend, Choi Soon-sil, to extort millions from big businesses. Her polling numbers have reached record lows, and huge crowds have gathered in Seoul, the capital, and other major cities to demand that Ms. Park step down or face impeachment.
朴槿惠被指控与朋友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)合谋，向大企业敲诈数千万美元。她的支持率已经创下历史新低，大规模的人群聚集在韩国首都首尔和其他大城市，要求朴槿惠下台或面对弹劾。
Prosecutors further undermined Ms. Park on Sunday by identifying her as a criminal accomplice while indicting Ms. Choi on extortion charges. As a sitting president, Ms. Park cannot be indicted.
检察官在星期日以敲诈勒索罪名指控崔顺实，并将朴槿惠定为共犯，从而进一步打击了后者。作为总统，朴槿惠不能被起诉。
Since the scandal engulfed her administration, Ms. Park has made moves to assert her leadership, such as making high-profile government appointments. Critics have charged that the talks with Japan were another attempt to establish her authority and rally her conservative supporters, who favor the deal. Her government has denied this, saying that the pact was needed to counter the threat from Pyongyang.
自从丑闻开始严重影响她的政府，朴槿惠便在采取行动申明自己的领导地位，比如任命高级政府官员。批评者指责，与日本的谈判是她另一个巩固自己权威的尝试，并且以此团结赞同这一协议的保守派支持者。她的政府否认这一点，声称该协定是反击来自平壤威胁的需要。
The main opposition Democratic Party said Tuesday that Ms. Park would be remembered as a “traitorous president” because of the deal with Japan.
韩国主要反对党民主党于周二称，因为与日本的交易，朴槿惠将以“叛国总统”之名被铭记。
“We cannot restrain our anger at President Park’s arrogance,” the party said in a statement. “She is not satisfied with parlaying the government through her unprecedented scandal; now she is trying to ruin diplomacy and national security too.”
“朴总统的傲慢令我们无法抑制愤怒之情，”该党在一份声明中说。“在史无前例的丑闻中赌上政府还不够，现在她还在试图损害外交事务和国家安全。”
Yoshihide Suga, the Japanese chief cabinet secretary, said Tuesday at a news conference in Tokyo that the government wanted to “work for an early signing” of the agreement but did not comment further, the Kyodo news agency reported.
根据共同社报道，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)周二在东京举行的新闻发布会上说，政府希望“尽早签署”该项协议，但没有进一步置评。
Many South Koreans harbor strong resentment over Japan’s harsh colonial rule, and any moves by Japan to expand its military role in the region stir painful associations here.
许多韩国人对日本残酷的殖民统治怀有强烈不满，日本在该地区扩大其军事角色的任何行动都会在韩国引发痛苦的联想。
In 2012, a similar intelligence-sharing deal with Japan was put on hold at the last minute after a domestic backlash in South Korea. The government’s sudden announcement that the talks would resume came a month ago, after the scandal involving Ms. Choi had erupted.
2012年，在韩国国内强烈反对之下，与日本的类似情报分享协议在最后一分钟遭到搁置。一个月之前，崔顺实丑闻爆发之后，韩国政府突然宣布恢复该谈判。
The pact, which was approved earlier Tuesday by Ms. Park’s cabinet, will take effect at a signing ceremony Wednesday morning, officials said.
周二早些时候，朴槿惠的内阁批准了这项协定，一些官员称，它将在周三上午的签字仪式上生效。