SEOUL, South Korea — The woman at the center of President Park Geun-hye’s worst leadership crisis was jailed on Tuesday, as prosecutors grilled her overnight over allegations that she had manipulated important government affairs from the shadows.
韩国首尔——在朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统所经历的最严重的领导危机中，一个处在风口浪尖上的女人本周二遭到监禁，检察官连夜就她在幕后操纵政府重要事务的指控进行了审问。
Choi Soon-sil, 60, a friend of Ms. Park’s for 40 years and widely seen here as the president’s secret adviser, though she had no official government title, was also accused of using her influence to extort $69 million from big businesses in the form of donations to two foundations she controlled.
60岁的崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)是朴槿惠40年的老朋友，虽然没有正式的官方头衔，却在韩国被普遍视为总统的秘密顾问，她被指控利用自己的影响力向一些大企业敲诈了6900万美元，以大笔捐款的形式进入了她控制的两个基金会。
On Sunday, Ms. Park fired eight aides, including her chief of staff, in an effort to regain public trust. That was a day after thousands of South Koreans took to the streets to call for her removal from office.
周日，朴槿惠解除了总统府秘书室主任等八名助手的职务，试图重获公众的信任。前一天，有数以千计的韩国人上街游行，要求她下台。
And on Monday, after weeks of evading the news media and public scrutiny, Ms. Choi presented herself to prosecutors. She tearfully apologized before a phalanx of television cameras, while angry citizens demanded her arrest. One person was detained while attempting to hurl a tub of excrement at her and the prosecutors’ office, claiming that the investigation was rigged to protect Ms. Park.
周一，在躲避新闻媒体和公众监督数周后，崔顺实站到了检察官面前。她在密密麻麻的电视台摄像机前做出道歉，而愤怒的公众要求逮捕她。有人试图向她和检方办公楼扔一桶排泄物，结果遭到拘押，此人声称为了维护朴槿惠，调查受到操纵。
On Tuesday, a man was detained after he drove his excavator through the gate of the prosecutors’ office. He later told the police that he came from a rural South Korean town to kill Ms. Choi.
周二，一名男子开着挖掘机进入检方办公楼的大门，结果遭到了拘押。他后来告诉警察，他从韩国的某乡村小城来这里，想要干掉崔顺实。
After hours of questioning, prosecutors said they had decided to “urgently detain” Ms. Choi and locked her away early Tuesday in a Seoul jail. Prosecutors take such a measure when they believe that they have enough evidence for criminal charges.
经过数小时的询问后，检察官说，他们决定“紧急拘押”崔顺实，并在周二早上将她关入首尔一所监狱。检察官认为掌握了足够的刑事指控证据时，就会采取这种做法。
The scandal involving Ms. Choi was particularly inflammatory in South Korea, partly because of her background.
在韩国，涉及崔顺实的丑闻之所以特别轰动，部分原因在于她的背景。
She is the daughter of a religious leader named Choi Tae-min who is said to have befriended Ms. Park in the mid-1970s with a claim that he could help her contact her dead mother, who was killed by an assassin in 1974. Ms. Park’s father, Park Chung-hee, was a military dictator who ruled South Korea from 1961 until he was assassinated in 1979.
崔顺实是宗教领袖崔太敏(Choi Tae-min)的女儿。据说崔太敏在1970年代中期与朴槿惠成为朋友，声称可以帮助她联络1974年遭暗杀身亡的母亲。朴槿惠的父亲朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)是一名军事独裁者，从1961年开始统治韩国，直到1979年遭暗杀。
Mr. Choi, a shadowy figure with several pseudonyms, was believed by many to have exercised a Rasputin-like power over Ms. Park and to have used it to collect bribes. He died in 1994.
崔太敏是一个神神秘秘的人物，有好几个化名，很多人认为他对朴槿惠有一种拉斯普廷(Rasputin)式的影响，并利用这种影响力来收取贿赂。崔太敏在1994年去世。
After Ms. Park took office as president in early 2013, rumors persisted that Ms. Choi exerted an undue influence on Ms. Park, who had few relatives or friends she could trust, to meddle in government affairs, installing her associates in the government and helping them win large government contracts.
朴槿惠可以信任的亲戚或朋友寥寥无几，自2013年初担任总统以来，就一直有谣言说崔顺实对朴槿惠施加了不适当的影响，以干涉政府事务，在政府中安置自己的亲信，帮助他们赢得大型政府合同。
Some of those suspicions seemed to be vindicated last week, when Ms. Park acknowledged that she had let Ms. Choi edit some of her most important speeches. Ms. Park’s approval ratings have plummeted to record lows in the past couple of weeks.
其中一些怀疑似乎在上周得到了证实，朴槿惠上周承认，她让崔顺实对她最重要的一些演讲稿进行修改。朴槿惠的支持率也在过去几周里大幅下挫，创下了历史新低。