SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye of South Korea on Saturday urged North Korea to stop what she called military provocations on the border, hours after the North threatened to attack loudspeakers that the South has begun using to blast propaganda messages into North Korea.
韩国首尔——周六，韩国总统朴槿惠敦促朝鲜停止在边境上的军事挑衅行为。在那之前几小时，朝鲜威胁要攻击韩国向朝鲜播放宣传内容的喇叭。
Ms. Park’s comments, in a speech on the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II and the liberation of the Korean Peninsula, then unified, from Japanese rule, came a week and a half after two South Korean soldiers were badly wounded by land mines that the South says were planted by the North in the demilitarized zone now dividing the Koreas.
朴槿惠是在纪念二战结束70周年的讲话中发表此番言论的。而在一周半之前，两名韩国士兵因触发地雷而重伤。韩国指位于非军事区内的地雷是朝方埋的。二战结束后，朝鲜半岛从日本的殖民统治下解放，现在非军事区则将朝韩两国分隔开来。
“North Korea must wake up from its delusional belief that it can maintain its regime through provocations and threats,” Ms. Park said in her speech. “They lead only to isolation and destruction.”
“朝鲜必须清醒过来，不要痴心妄想地以为，可以通过挑衅和威胁维持其政权，”朴槿惠在讲话中说。“那只会带来孤立和破坏。”
South Korean leaders have traditionally commemorated the anniversary of the war’s end, called Liberation Day here, with a speech expressing hope for Korean reunification. The end of Japanese colonial rule seven decades ago was soon followed by Korea’s division, as the Soviet Union installed a communist government in the north and the United States a capitalist one in the south.
韩国领导人历来会在二战结束的周年纪念日，也就是韩国的“光复日”(Liberation Day)发表讲话，表达对朝鲜半岛统一的希望。70年前，日本的殖民统治结束后不久，因为苏联在北部成立了共产主义政府，美国在南部成立了资本主义政府，朝鲜半岛一分为二。
Ms. Park’s speech on Saturday included both condemnations and overtures directed at North Korea. She urged it to learn from Cuba’s moves to improve relations with the United States, but said the North had been “walking in the other direction,” referring to its nuclear weapons development, executions of officials deemed disloyal to the government and recent provocations along the border.
在周六的讲话中，朴槿惠既表示了对朝鲜的谴责，也对朝鲜提出了建议。她敦促朝鲜学习古巴为改善对美关系而采取的措施，但也表示朝鲜一直在“反其道而行之”。朴槿惠指的是朝鲜开发核武器、处决被认为对政府不忠的官员，以及最近在边境附近挑衅的举动。
Ms. Park also reiterated the South’s accusation that the North had planted the mines that maimed the soldiers, near their outpost on the southern side of the demilitarized zone. One soldier lost both his legs to a mine, and the other lost one. North Korea has denied planting the mines, accusing the South of fabricating evidence that it had done so.
朴槿惠还重申了韩国对朝鲜在非军事区靠南一侧埋放地雷，导致韩国士兵在哨所附近因地雷肢残的谴责。事件中一名士兵失去了双腿，另一人失去了一条腿。朝鲜否认埋放地雷，并谴责韩国捏造证据，让外界以为地雷是朝鲜埋的。
Ms. Park also offered suggestions for improving relations, saying that the Koreas could resume their sporadic efforts to reunite families separated by the Korean War of 1950-53, and could build trust by cooperating on fighting floods, droughts and epidemics, as well as sponsoring joint sports and cultural events.
朴槿惠还提出了改善双方关系的建议，称两国可以恢复不时举行的离散家属团聚的活动，让因1950年至1953年的朝鲜战争而分离的家庭重聚。她还建议，可以通过携手抗击洪水、干旱和传染病，以及共同举办体育和文化活动，来构建信任。
“For Koreans, the real liberation from colonial rule is not completed until we have reunification,” she said.
“对韩朝民众来说，只有半岛统一，摆脱殖民统治的真正解放才算完成，”她说。
Hours before Ms. Park’s speech, the North Korean military issued an “open warning” vowing to launch “unrestrained attacks” on the South Korean loudspeakers along the border if they were not removed, according to North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency. South Korea responded that it would target “the origins of attack” if its loudspeakers were hit by North Korean shells.
据朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)报道，就在朴槿惠发表讲话的几个小时前，朝鲜军方发布“公开警告”，誓言如果韩国不拆除边境沿线的喇叭，便会对其发起“不加节制的攻击”。韩国回应称，如果喇叭遭到朝鲜炮弹的袭击，韩国会把“袭击源”作为攻击目标。
Both Koreas used such loudspeakers to broadcast propaganda at the border for decades until 2004, during a period of reconciliation, when they agreed to stop the practice. South Korea considered resuming the broadcasts in 2010, after one of its naval ships was sunk by what it said was a North Korean torpedo, but decided against it. This past week, the South activated the loudspeakers after 11 years, in response to the maiming of the soldiers at the border.
在早前几十年的时间里，两国均在边境地区用这种喇叭广播宣传内容，直到2004年，双方进入和解时期，同意停止这一做法。2010年，韩国一艘军舰沉没。韩国称军舰是被朝鲜发射的鱼雷击沉的。事件发生后，韩国考虑过恢复广播，但后来还是决定不这么做。在过去一周里，作为对士兵在边境上致残一事的回应，韩国在时隔11年后启用了喇叭。