SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye on Tuesday defended her government’s decision to teach children history with government-issued textbooks, arguing that the move was aimed partly at preventing the country from ever again being dominated by a foreign power.
韩国首尔——在决定使用官定历史教科书向孩子讲授历史后，朴槿惠总统本周二对政府此举进行了辩护，她称这部分是为了保护该国免于再次受到外来势力的支配。
“We are witnessing a rapid shift in Northeast Asia and its vicinity,” Ms. Park said in her first reaction to a political firestorm ignited by the government announcement on Monday. “Given the situation, if we don’t try to inculcate the students with historical convictions and pride, we may be culturally and historically subjugated by another country.”
“我们正在见证东北亚与临近地区的快速转变，” 这是朴槿惠首次回应韩国政府在周一宣布这个决定后所引发的政治风暴。“在这种情况下，如果不向学生灌输对本国历史的信念与荣耀感，我们很有可能把自身的历史与文化拱手任他国主导。”
Ms. Park made the comment in a meeting with her senior presidential staff, according to her office, hours before leaving for the United States for a summit meeting with President Obama.
总统办公室表示，朴槿惠是在动身前往美国会见奥巴马总统数小时前，与资深幕僚开会时，做出以上评论的。
The two leaders are expected to discuss South Korea’s increasingly tricky balancing act between the United States, its biggest military ally, and China, its main trading partner. Last month, Ms. Park was the only leader from a major American ally to attend a military parade in Beijing that highlighted China’s growing quest for military influence in the region. Ms. Park has met President Xi Jinping of China several times while shunning Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, another crucial American ally.
预计两位国家领导人届时将讨论的话题是，在最大的军事盟友美国与最主要的贸易伙伴中国之间寻找平衡的韩国，正面临的越来越棘手的局面。上个月北京为彰显中国渐增的军事影响力而举行的大阅兵上，朴槿惠是与美国友好的重要国家的领导人中，唯一一位出席的。朴槿惠与中国国家主席习近平已数度会面，同时疏远了日本首相安倍晋三，而后者也是美国的重要盟友。
Under Ms. Park, South Korea has repeatedly accused Mr. Abe’s government of using textbooks to indoctrinate young Japanese with a whitewashed and increasingly nationalistic version of its modern colonialist history. But she faced similar accusations of propagandism from her domestic critics after her government decided to place itself in charge of writing history textbooks for middle and high school students.
朴槿惠领导的韩国政府曾数度批评安倍政府以教科书为手段， 向日本年轻一代灌输经过美化且民族主义论调日益增强的该国近代殖民史。如今，朴槿惠政府决定由自己来负责中学历史教科书的书写后，国内的批评人士同样也开始指责这是政治宣传手法。
On Tuesday, the main political opposition warned of a major legislative gridlock, threatening to block budgetary and other bills at the National Assembly unless the government withdrew the decision. Many history professors said they would not accept the offer even if the Education Ministry invited them to join a panel of historians that the government said would write new textbooks.
周二，韩国主要反对党警告，如果政府不撤回这个决定，在国会可能会出现一次严重的立法僵局，并威胁要阻挡预算案与其他法案的审查工作。许多历史教授也表示，即使教育部邀请他们进入政府的新教科书编撰专家组，他们也不会接受。
In a message widely circulated online, Moon Jae-in, the main opposition leader, targeted Ms. Park: “A good president makes history, a bad president makes history books.”
在一则于网路上广传的讯息里，反对党主要领袖文在寅(Moon Jae-in)抨击朴槿惠：“好总统创造历史，坏总统创作历史教科书。”
Ms. Park’s opponents feared that Ms. Park would use the new textbooks to gloss over the legacy of the country’s conservative elites, including her father, the former military dictator Park Chung-hee. Many conservative former leaders, like Mr. Park, were accused of collaborating during Japan’s colonial rule of Korea in the early 20th century. They subsequently led South Korea during its rapid economic growth but also jailed and tortured dissidents, branding them Communists.
朴槿惠的反对者担心，她会利用新版教科书对该国保守派精英造成的历史遗留问题加以粉饰，这其中包括了她的父亲、前军事独裁领袖朴正熙。包括朴正熙在内的多位前保守派领袖都曾被控于二十世纪初日本殖民朝鲜半岛期间，与殖民政府合作。此后，他们接连领导韩国走过经济快速成长的年代，同时也给异见分子贴上共产党人的标签，迫其入狱并施以酷刑。
On Tuesday, Ms. Park showed no sign of backing down.
不过，朴槿惠在周二并没有表现出任何退让的迹象。
“History education should never be used for political strife or ideological confrontation to divide the people and the students,” she said, accusing the opposition parties of stoking “unnecessary controversy.” She said her government was trying to arm young Koreans with “correct historical views and values.”
她表示：“历史教育不该成为政治与意识形态斗争之下，分裂人民与学生的工具。”她指控反对党在挑起“不必要的纷争”。她说她所领导的政府在尝试用“正确的历史观点与价值观”来武装韩国的年轻人。
Currently, schools are free to choose from among eight history textbooks, distributed by private publishers after the government approved them. But Ms. Park and her conservative supporters faulted the books, saying they were written by left-leaning historians and teachers with “ideological biases.”
目前，韩国学校可以自由选用8个不同版本的历史教科书，他们都是由政府认可的民营出版社发行。不过，朴槿惠与她的保守派支持者认为这些教科书是有瑕疵的，他们声称这些书都是由左倾的学者与老师撰写，有“意识形态上的偏差”。