SEOUL, South Korea — Park Geun-hye, South Korea’s first female president and its first leader impeached and removed from office, was arrested on Friday on charges including bribery, extortion and abuse of power.
韩国首尔——周五，韩国首位女总统、首位被弹劾和免职的国家领导人朴槿惠，因腐败、敲诈勒索和滥用权力的指控被拘。
Judge Kang Bu-young of the Seoul Central District Court issued a warrant for her arrest, warning that if Park was not quickly taken into custody the former president might “destroy evidence.”
首尔中央区法院(Seoul Central District Court)法官姜富英（Kang Bu-young，音）发出了逮捕令，并警告，如果不尽快将朴槿惠拘留，这位前总统有可能会“销毁证据”。
Park had spent the night in the prosecutor’s office waiting to learn if she would be placed under arrest. The warrant was issued shortly after 3 a.m., and she was led from the office to a jail outside Seoul, the South Korean capital. She is expected to remain in jail through her trial.
朴槿惠当晚一直待在检察院，等着知道她是否会被捕。凌晨3点刚过，逮捕令发出，她被从检察院带到了位于韩国首都首尔之外的一所监狱。预计整个审判期间，她都会待在监狱里。
Park is the first former South Korean leader put behind bars since two former military dictators were imprisoned on corruption and mutiny charges in the mid-1990s.
朴槿惠是自两位前军事独裁者在上世纪90年代中期因腐败和叛乱的指控被监禁之后，首位入狱的前韩国领导人。
Park was accused of conspiring with a longtime confidante, Choi Soon-sil, to collect tens of millions of dollars from big businesses, including more than $38 million in bribes from Samsung. Both Choi and Samsung’s top executive, Lee Jae-yong, have previously been arrested and are standing trial on several charges, including bribery.
朴槿惠被指控与多年的闺蜜崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)从多家大公司收取了数千万美元的资金，其中包括来自三星公司数额超过3800万美元的贿赂。崔顺实和三星最高主管李在镕(Lee Jae-yong)之前都已被捕，正在接受就包括贿赂在内的几项指控受审。
Just hours earlier, hundreds of people opposing Park’s arrest cried and shouted as her motorcade pulled out of her two-story, red brick house in southern Seoul for a 10-minute drive to the Seoul Central District Court for a hearing.
就在几个小时之前，当朴槿惠的车队驶离她位于首尔南部的两层红色砖楼住宅、经过10分钟车程前往首尔中央区检察院参加听证会时，有数百名反对逮捕朴槿惠的人在路旁哭叫。
Her motorcade was briefly stopped when angry supporters tried to push past police officers lining the road.
愤怒的支持者试图突破道路两旁的警察，朴槿惠的车队因此被迫临时停下。
“We can’t let you go!” they shouted, some of them trying to hurl themselves onto the road. The protesters also threw yellow plastic police fences at uniformed officers who tried to push them back.
“我们不能让你走！”他们喊道，有些人在竭力往路中间冲去。当身着制服的警察试图将他们拉回时，抗议者还将黄色的塑料警用围栏掷向他们。
Her drive to the courthouse was nationally televised.
电视台将朴槿惠乘车前往法院大楼的经过进行了全国直播。
Park, who has never accepted the Constitutional Court ruling that ended her presidency on March 10, did not answer questions shouted from reporters as she walked into the courthouse.
朴槿惠一直不接受宪法法院在3月10日作出的结束其总统任期的裁决。在走进法院时，她没有回应旁边的记者向她喊出的问题。
On Monday, prosecutors formally asked the Seoul Central District Court to issue a warrant so they could arrest Park on 13 criminal charges. On Thursday, the called a closed-door hearing for prosecutors and Park’s lawyers to argue whether an arrest warrant was justified.
周一，检方正式要求首尔中央区法院发布逮捕令，以便他们以13项罪名指控对朴槿惠实施逮捕。周四这里举行了一场由检方和朴槿惠的律师参加的闭门听证会，就是否应该发布逮捕令展开争论。
The National Assembly voted overwhelmingly on Dec. 9 to impeach Park on charges of corruption and abuse of power, and she was formally removed from office on March 10.
12月9日，韩国国会(National Assembly)以压倒性多数票决定就腐败和滥用职权的指控弹劾朴槿惠。今年3月10日，她被正式免职。