SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s embattled president, Park Geun-hye, has offered to step down in April, leaders of her party said on Tuesday after meeting with her. But the offer was unlikely to prevent an impeachment vote on Friday over a corruption scandal that has turned the vast majority of the public against her.
韩国首尔——本周二，韩国总统朴槿惠所在政党的领导人与她会面后表示，四面楚歌的朴槿惠提出在明年4月辞职。但这个提议不太可能阻止本周五对于一起腐败丑闻的弹劾投票，该丑闻令韩国绝大多数公众都成为了她的反对者。
Park appeared to accept that a vote on impeachment was inevitable and said that she was bracing for it, Chung Jin-suk, the floor leader of Park’s governing party, Saenuri, said in a statement Tuesday after meeting with the president for 55 minutes.
执政党议会党团主席郑镇硕(Chung Jin-suk)本周二与朴槿惠总统进行了55分钟的会面，然后发表声明说，总统似乎认识到弹劾投票已经不可避免，表示她正在做准备。
Chung said that he told Park the party could not prevent the impeachment vote and that she nodded in response.
他说，他对朴槿惠表示，该党不能阻止弹劾投票，她点头表示回应。
Park said last week that she was willing to resign before the end of her term but that she would leave it to the National Assembly to decide the terms, including the date of her departure. Critics saw that offer as an attempt to divide her opponents and stall the push for impeachment.
朴槿惠上周表示，她愿意在这个任期结束之前辞职，但是得由国民议会来决定辞职条件，包括她离开的日期等等。批评者认为，这项提议的意图是在对手内部引发分裂，阻止弹劾进程。
It is uncertain what the outcome of an impeachment vote would be. But news outlets reported Tuesday that the pro-impeachment lawmakers were believed to have the 200 votes necessary to pass the bill.
目前不能确定弹劾投票的结果会是怎样。但新闻媒体周二报道，主张弹劾的议员超过通过弹劾议案所需要的200票。
“I have always thought I would accept” the suggestion to resign in April, Chung quoted Park as saying.
“我一直认为我会接受”明年4月份辞职的建议，郑镇硕引用朴槿惠的话说。
According to Chung, Park said that if she were impeached, she would stay “calm and composed” during the next step in the process: waiting for the Constitutional Court to rule on whether her impeachment was warranted.
郑镇硕还说，朴槿惠表示，如果遭到弹劾，她将在这个过程的下个步骤中保持“冷静和从容”，下个步骤是等待宪法法院裁决对她的弹劾是否有效。
The court has up to six months to decide. During that period, Park’s presidential powers would be suspended, and Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn would step in as acting president. If the court were to rule against her impeachment, she would immediately return to office. If not, South Korea would hold an election in 60 days to select her successor.
法院有长达六个月的时间来做出决定。在此期间，朴槿惠的总统权力将被暂停，总理黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)将成为代理总统。如果法院裁定她不被弹劾，她将立即恢复总统职权，否则韩国将在60天内选出她的继任者。
Opposition lawmakers criticized Park on Tuesday for not resigning immediately. “She tries to hang on to the very last,” said Youn Kwan-suk, a spokesman for the main opposition Democratic Party.
反对党议员本周二批评朴槿惠没有立即辞职。主要反对党共同民主党发言人尹宽锡(Youn Kwan-suk)说：“她试图坚持到最后。”
The impeachment motion is expected to be formally presented to the National Assembly’s plenary session when it opens on Thursday. A vote would be held the next day.
弹劾动议预计将在周四国民议会全体会议开幕时正式提交。投票将在第二天举行。