SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea’s president proposed Monday that the two Koreas improve their tense relations by resuming the reunions of families separated since the Korean War, a humanitarian program that seemed close to being renewed last year but was scuttled as negotiations soured.
韩国首尔——韩国总统周一提议通过恢复让自朝鲜战争以来分裂的家庭团聚的项目，来缓和韩朝之间的紧张关系，这一人道主义项目去年几近重启，但因谈判不顺而受挫。
President Park Geun-hye’s overture came five days after the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, urged that Seoul and Pyongyang create “a favorable climate for improved relations” in a New Year’s Day speech.
韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)发出这一提议5天前，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在新年致辞中曾呼吁首尔和平壤创造“有利于改善关系的环境”。
“I hope that North Korea will create a new opportunity for South-North relations and a framework for dialogue by taking a good first step with family reunions,” Ms. Park said during a nationally televised news conference.
朴槿惠在一次全国电视直播的新闻发布会上说，“我希望，朝鲜能向实现家庭团聚迈出良好的第一步，从而为南北关系以及对话框架创造一次新的机会。”
Ms. Park, a conservative, made two other conciliatory gestures toward the North, offering to increase humanitarian aid to the impoverished country and to let South Korean civic groups provide assistance to its farmers and ranchers. But she expressed skepticism about the prospect of meeting with Mr. Kim, whose government has until recently exhorted South Koreans to overthrow her “fascist dictatorship.”
保守派人士朴槿惠还向朝鲜做出另外两个和解姿态，提出给贫困的朝鲜增加人道主义援助，以及让韩国民间组织为朝鲜的农民和牧场工人提供帮助。但她对与金正恩会面的可能性表示怀疑，金正恩政府最近还在呼吁韩国人推翻朴槿惠的“法西斯独裁统治”。
She urged the young North Korean leader to “act, not just talk” to prove his sincerity about better relations. She also said it had become “impossible” to predict “what will happen to the North and what actions it will take” since the purge and execution last month of Mr. Kim’s uncle, Jang Song-thaek, who was long considered Mr. Kim’s mentor and the second-highest-ranking figure in his secretive government.
她呼吁朝鲜这位年轻领导人“用行动、而不只是语言”来证明他想改善两国关系的诚意。她还说，自从上个月清洗并处决了金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)以后，预测“朝鲜会发生什么、会采取什么行动”已经变得“不可能”，长期以来人们一直认为张成泽是金正恩的良师益友，是金正恩秘密政府中的二号人物。
Ms. Park proposed that a new round of reunions be held around Lunar New Year’s Day on Jan. 31, a traditional time for family gatherings in both Koreas.
朴槿惠提议在1月31日农历新年那天举办新一轮的家庭团聚活动，这是韩朝两国传统的家人团聚的日子。
There was no immediate response from Pyongyang. Ms. Park called Monday’s news conference, her first since taking office last February, amid growing criticism from the South Korean opposition that she had not been communicating enough with the public.
平壤没有立即做出回应。朴槿惠周一召开的新闻发布会是她自去年2月份上台以来的第一次，是在韩国反对派批评她与公众交流不够的声音不断增长的情况下召开的。
Millions of Koreans were separated from family members when the Korean Peninsula was divided into the Communist North and the pro-American South at the end of World War II in 1945. The subsequent Korean War, which began in 1950, was fought to a stalemate and an ultimate cease-fire in 1953. Since then, no exchanges of letters, telephone calls or emails have been allowed between North and South Koreans, and family reunions remain a highly emotional issue and an indicator of the state of relations on the peninsula.
1945年第二次世界大战结束时，朝鲜半岛被分割成两个国家：共产主义的朝鲜和支持美国的韩国，造成了数百万个家庭的分离。1950年爆发的朝鲜战争打成僵局，最终于1953年停火。自那时起，朝鲜人和韩国人之间的书信、电话或电子邮件往来一直被禁止，家庭团聚仍然是一个易让情绪激动的问题，也是朝鲜半岛关系的一个晴雨表。
About 22,000 people from both Koreas participated in 18 rounds of government-arranged reunions between 1985 and 2010, when the program was suspended as relations worsened. About 73,000 South Koreans — half of whom are more than 80 years old — remain on a waiting list for a chance to meet with parents, siblings or children in the North for the first time in 60 years.
约有22000个来自朝鲜和韩国的人参加了1985到2010年间政府组织的18轮团聚活动，之后该项目因两国关系恶化而暂停。韩国约有73000人仍在等待着有机会与生活在朝鲜的父母、兄弟姐妹或孩子见上60年来的第一面，这些人当中有一半的年龄已在80岁以上。
After months of harsh rhetoric following the North’s nuclear test last February, North and South Korea reached an agreement last August to revive the reunions. But the North later ended the talks, blaming the South for refusing to resume an inter-Korean tourism program at the North’s Diamond Mountain resort, which had been highly lucrative for Pyongyang until it was shut down in 2008.
去年2月份朝鲜进行核试验之后，韩朝两国言辞激烈地对峙了数月，最终在去年8月份达成恢复家庭团聚项目的协议。但随后朝鲜停止了谈判，并把原因归咎于韩国拒绝重启一项朝韩之间的旅游项目，在2008年被迫停止之前，该项目让韩国人去朝鲜的钻石山景点旅游，曾给平壤带来巨大的利润。
Ms. Park did not offer details Monday on her proposed humanitarian aid to the North, but she said South Korean civic groups might be able to join international aid agencies in providing support to farmers and ranchers in the country. In his New Year’s speech, Mr. Kim set the rebuilding of his country’s agriculture as a top priority.
朴槿惠周一没有就其向朝鲜提供人道主义援助的提议给出具体内容，但她说韩国民间组织也许能与国际援助机构一起为朝鲜的农民和牧场工人提供帮助。金正恩在新年致辞中将振兴朝鲜农业作为该国的首要任务。
Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the Sejong Institute in South Korea, said that the family reunion proposal gave Pyongyang a chance to follow up on its top leader’s call for improved ties. But Mr. Cheong warned that the North would eventually link the reunions to the Diamond Mountain tourism program. Without a concession on that issue, he said, “North Korea will be uncooperative with family reunions, and even if they are held, they will be a one-time event.”
韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的分析员郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说，家庭团聚的提议给了平壤一个机会，让其能就朝鲜最高领导人有关改善关系的呼吁采取行动。但是，郑相昌警告说，朝鲜可能最终会将团聚项目与钻石山旅游项目挂钩。他说，如果不在旅游问题上做出让步，“朝鲜将不会在家庭团聚上合作，即使能搞成，那也将是个一次性事件。”
South Korea halted the flow of aid and investment to the North in 2008, demanding that Pyongyang give up its nuclear weapons. It also curtailed inter-Korean trade following the sinking of a South Korean naval ship in 2010, which Seoul says was caused by a North Korean torpedo attack.
韩国在2008年因要求平壤放弃核武器而停止了对朝鲜的援助和投资。2010年一艘韩国军舰沉海之后，韩国还减少了两国之间的贸易，首尔称沉船是朝鲜的鱼雷袭击所致。
After spending much of last year threatening to launch nuclear and missile attacks against Washington and Seoul, North Korea recently shifted its tone, calling for reconciliation. Ms. Park said Monday she was eager to work toward Korean reunification, which she said would bring “a bonanza” to the South Korean economy. But she said the North’s refusal to abandon its nuclear weapons was a stumbling block and the motives for its recent overtures remained suspect.
朝鲜把去年的时间大多花在威胁要发动针对华盛顿和首尔的核武器及导弹袭击上，但最近转变了态度，开始呼吁和解。朴槿惠在周一称，她热衷于为朝鲜半岛统一而努力，她说，统一将为韩国经济提供一个极为有利的机会。但她表示，朝鲜拒绝放弃核武器是一个绊脚石，而且朝鲜最近提议的动机仍值得怀疑。
Mr. Kim made similarly conciliatory comments toward the South during his New Year’s Day speech in 2013, but they were followed by a series of provocative acts, including its February nuclear test. Just last month, Pyongyang sent a letter to Ms. Park’s office threatening “strikes without warning.”
金正恩在其2013年新年致辞中也曾向韩国发出类似的和解言论，但随后朝鲜却做出了一系列的挑衅行为，包括在2月份进行核试验。就在上月，平壤还曾致信朴槿惠办公室威胁要发动“不事先警告的打击”。