SEOUL, South Korea — Prosecutors announced plans on Tuesday to question former President Park Geun-hye of South Korea in a corruption scandal, four days after she was removed from office in a historic court ruling.
韩国首尔——检察官周二宣布，将就一起腐败丑闻询问前总统朴槿惠，四天前，一个历史性的法院裁决罢免了她的总统职位。
Ms. Park’s presidency formally ended last Friday, when the Constitutional Court approved the National Assembly’s vote to impeach her in December.
朴槿惠的总统任职已在上周五正式结束，当天，韩国宪法法院批准了国民议会去年12月对她的弹劾表决。
She was the first South Korean leader ousted under popular pressure since the country’s founding president, Syngman Rhee, fled into exile in Hawaii in 1960.
自从韩国开国总统李承晩1960年亡命夏威夷以来，她是首位被民众压力推翻的韩国领导人。
Although prosecutors have identified Ms. Park as a criminal suspect accused of bribery, extortion and abuse of power in recent months, they could not indict her or even summon her by force while she was president. But now that she has become an ordinary citizen, prosecutors moved swiftly.
虽然检察官已将朴槿惠定为在最近几个月里被指控犯有贿赂、勒索和滥用权力的犯罪嫌疑人，但他们不能起诉她，而且在她担任总统期间，甚至不能强行传唤她。但现在她已经成为普通公民，检察官马上采取了行动。
On Tuesday, they said they were formally opening an investigation on her, adding that they would announce, most likely on Wednesday, when they planned to question her.
他们在周二表示，正在正式对她立案调查，并补充说，他们很可能会在周三宣布，什么时候打算对她进行询问。
If she is summoned, she will be the first former South Korean president to be grilled by prosecutors since 2009, when former President Roh Moo-hyun was questioned on corruption allegations involving his family.
如果她被传唤，她将成为2009年以来首位遭检查官询问的韩国前总统，2009年，前总统卢武铉曾因一起涉及自己家人的腐败指控受到询问。
Two other former presidents — the military dictators Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo — were questioned in 1995 on suspicion of bribery. The two men, former army generals, also faced sedition and mutiny charges for their roles in the 1979 military coup that brought them to power and in the 1980 massacre of antigovernment demonstrators in the southwestern city of Kwangju.
另外两名前总统——军人独裁者全斗煥和卢泰愚——曾在1995年因涉嫌贿赂受到询问。这两名前将军也曾因他们在导致他们掌权的1979年军事政变，以及1980年在韩国南方城市光州发生的对反政府示威者的大屠杀中的的角色，面临煽动叛乱和哗变的指控。
Mr. Chun was sentenced to death — the sentence was later commuted to life in prison — while Mr. Roh was sentenced to 17 years. (Both were pardoned and released in December 1997.)
全斗煥被判处死刑，后被减为终身监禁，卢泰愚被判处17年有期徒刑。（他两人都已在1997年12月被赦免释放。）
Roh Moo-hyun was never indicted; deeply humiliated, he killed himself by jumping off a cliff behind his home in southern South Korea a few weeks after he was questioned by prosecutors in Seoul. His funeral brought together a crowd of supporters who called the investigation of Mr. Roh a political vendetta from the conservative government then in power.
卢武铉从未被定罪；他在受到首尔检察官询问的几周后，深感尊严丧失，从韩国南部自己家后面的一个悬崖上跳崖自杀。他的葬礼让一群支持者聚到一起，他们称对卢武铉的调查是当时在台上的保守派政府对他进行的政治报复。
It has not always been easy to summon a former president.
传唤前总统并不总是容易的事情。
Mr. Chun did not go to the prosecutors’ office voluntarily. When prosecutors went to apprehend him, his supporters blocked them for hours.
全斗煥并没有自愿前往检察院。当检察官去逮捕他时，他的支持者们拒绝让他被带走长达几个小时。
Such a standoff is feared if Ms. Park decides not to cooperate with prosecutors.
如果朴槿惠决定不与检察官合作，人们担心会发生类似的对峙。
As president, she refused to be questioned by prosecutors or testify at the Constitutional Court, calling her impeachment politically biased. After her ouster, she hinted at defiance, refusing to accept the court ruling and instead saying that “the truth will be known” later.
在总统任上时，她曾拒绝接受检察官的询问，也拒绝在宪法法院出庭作证，她称自己受弹劾是政治偏见造成的。被免职后，她曾暗示会拒绝服从，她没有接受法院的裁决，而是表示以后“真相会大白天下”。
Since she returned to her private home in southern Seoul on Sunday, her supporters have been rallying outside daily, waving national flags.
自从周日回到自己位于首尔南部的私人住宅后，朴槿惠的支持者们每天都聚集在外面，挥舞着国旗。
Ms. Park has denied any wrongdoing in the scandal, which has shaken the political and business elite for months.
朴槿惠否认自己在丑闻中有任何不法行为，这场丑闻已经在政治和商业精英层引发了几个月的震荡。
Prosecutors said that she conspired with her secretive longtime confidante, Choi Soon-sil, to collect tens of millions of dollars from big businesses, like Samsung, and that some of the money represented bribes for political favors. Ms. Choi is already under arrest and on trial.
检察官说，朴槿惠与自己长期的密友崔顺实合谋，从三星等大企业那里收敛了数千万美元的金钱，其中一些钱代表了为获得政治利益的贿赂。崔顺实已被逮捕，正在接受法庭审理。