SEOUL, South Korea — President Park Geun-hye of South Korea vowed on Monday to disband her country’s Coast Guard, saying that South Korea owed “reform and a great transformation” to hundreds of high school students who died in a ferry disaster last month.
韩国首尔——本周一，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)郑重宣布将解散韩国的海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)，称韩国需要“进行改革，需要一场重大的变革”，以此告慰上个月死于渡轮海难的数百名高中生。
Bowing deeply before television cameras, Ms. Park offered a “heartfelt apology” for failing to prevent the sinking of the 6,825-ton ferry, Sewol, on April 16 and for the Coast Guard’s bungling of rescue operations.
朴槿惠在电视镜头前深深鞠躬，为未能防止“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）渡轮事故及海岸警卫队的拙劣救援行动表达了“由衷的歉意”。“世越号”渡轮重6825吨，于4月16日沉没。
“The ultimate responsibility lies with me, the president,” she said.
她说，“最终的责任人是身为总统的我。”
Although she had apologized a few times over the sinking, Ms. Park’s nationally televised speech on Monday was her clearest expression of public contrition. As of Monday, 286 people had been confirmed dead, with 18 missing, making the episode one of the country’s worst peacetime disasters. It has also developed into Ms. Park’s biggest political crisis; over the weekend, the police detained more than 200 people who had tried to march on her office, calling on her to step down.
朴槿惠此前已就沉船事件数次道歉，尽管如此，她在周一发表的全国直播电视演讲依然是她就此做出的最明确公开道歉。截至周一，已有286人确认遇难，另有18人失踪，使得此次事件成为了韩国和平时期最严重的灾难之一。此事也发展成了朴槿惠最大的政治危机。上周末，警方拘留了200多人，这些人试图游行前往她的办公室，要求她下台。
“We failed to save those students who should have been saved,” Ms. Park said. “I will make this an opportunity for South Korea to be born again.”
“我们未能救回那些本应获救的学生，”朴槿惠说，“我会让此事成为韩国重生的机会。”
She promised a reorganization of her government to help it deal more efficiently with disasters. She said she would disband the Coast Guard, which she said failed to do enough to save the students. The vast majority of the dead and missing were students who were trapped in the ferry after its crew repeatedly urged them to stay put in the dangerously listing vessel. The first Coast Guard boats arriving at the scene on April 16 saved the ship’s captain and other crew members deserting the ship, and made little effort to reach the trapped students.
她承诺重组政府，使之能够更有效地应对灾难。她表示将解散海岸警卫队，称海岸警卫队没有竭尽全力拯救学生。大部分死者和失踪者都是困在渡轮上的学生，渡轮船员曾反复敦促他们留在业已危险倾侧的船内。4月16日，首批抵达现场的海岸警卫队船只救走了弃船的船长和其他船员，但却几乎没有采取救助被困学生的行动。