KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The investigation into the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has shifted to include anyone on board with a navigation or aircraft background in response to evidence that the plane was deliberately diverted from its route and, after communication was lost, navigated by someone with deep experience at the controls.
马来西亚吉隆坡——针对马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班失踪一事的调查已有所调整。鉴于有证据表明，该架飞机故意偏离航线，并且在通讯中断后由对飞机操控有丰富经验的人驾驶，因此相关调查将囊括任何有驾机或飞行器背景的机上人员。
“In view of this latest development, the Malaysian authorities have refocused their investigation into the crew and passengers on board,” Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia said at a news conference on Saturday.
在周六召开的新闻发布会上，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)表示，“鉴于最新的进展，马来西亚当局将调查重点调整到机上的机组人员和乘客身上。”
This new phase of the investigation has brought new scrutiny to the lives of two people who certainly had those skills: the pilot and first officer, Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, and Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, both Malaysian citizens — although neither has been declared a suspect in the plane’s disappearance. Investigators are also apparently searching the passenger list for anyone else with similar skills who might have rerouted the plane, willfully or under coercion.
调查的新阶段让人们重新审视肯定具备这些技能的两人的身上：均为马来西亚公民的53岁的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)与27岁的副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)——尽管两人均未被宣布为客机失踪事件的嫌疑人。调查人员似乎还在搜索乘客名单，以了解是否有其他拥有类似技能的人或许改变了飞机的航向，无论是有意为之还是遭到胁迫。
After the news conference by Mr. Najib, investigators searched Mr. Zaharie’s house for the first time since the plane disappeared, according to news reports here. A spokeswoman for the Royal Malaysia Police, Datin Asmawati Ahmad, said on Sunday that the homes of the plane’s captain and first officer were both searched on Saturday. She declined to give details.
纳吉布的新闻发布会过后，根据当地媒体的报道，调查人员在飞机失踪后首次搜查了扎哈里的住宅。马来西亚皇家警署(Royal Malaysia Police)的发言人拿汀阿斯马沃蒂·艾哈迈德(Datin Asmawati Ahmad)周日表示，机长和副驾驶的住所均于周六遭到搜查。不过，她拒绝给出进一步的细节。
The authorities may also be looking at an aviation engineer who was among the passengers. The New Straits Times, a newspaper published in Malaysia, interviewed a man who said that his son, an aircraft engineer, had been on the flight en route to China to work on Malaysia Airlines planes. The son, Mohd Khairul Amri Selamat, was identified on the passenger manifest as a 29-year-old Malaysian. A company spokeswoman said early Sunday that the passenger was an employee of a private-jet firm, not Malaysia Airlines.
马来西亚当局或许还在调查乘客中的一名航空工程师。当地出版的《新海峡时报》(The New Straits Times)采访了一名男性。此人宣称，他的儿子是一名航空工程师，乘这趟航班前往中国为马来西亚的航空公司工作。其子名叫穆赫德·海尔·阿姆里·塞拉马特(Mohd Khairul Amri Selamat)，乘客名单上标明他29岁，是马来西亚人。马航一名女发言人周日称，这名乘客不是公司员工，而是受雇于一家私人飞机公司。
Friends and relatives of the pilot and first officer have jumped to their defense, deploring any suggestion that they might have had a role in the plane’s disappearance and vouching for their integrity.
机长与副驾驶的亲友迅速为两人辩护，对他们或许在飞机失踪事件中起到作用的任何说法予以强烈反驳，并对他们的人品进行担保。
“It’s very difficult for me to accept the line of thought that he was leaning toward terrorism,” Peter Chong, a friend of Mr. Zaharie, said in an interview on Saturday. “Knowing him and knowing his character, I find it very difficult to accept.” Mr. Chong described Mr. Zaharie as “very friendly, very jovial, loves people, enjoys being with people, doesn’t get angry very easily.”
“对我来说，很难接受他有恐怖主义倾向的想法，”扎哈里的友人彼得·张（Peter Chong）周六接受采访时称。“我认识他，也了解他的为人，我很难相信这种说法。”在他的口中，扎哈里“非常友善，非常快乐，有爱心，喜欢与人打交道，不容易生气。”
Mr. Zaharie, who joined the airline in 1981, has logged more than 18,300 hours of flight time, according to his employer. He was so passionate about flying, Mr. Chong said, that he built a flight simulator at his home in a gated complex in a suburb west of Kuala Lumpur, the capital.
马航称，扎哈里于1981年加入公司，累计飞行时间超过了18300小时。张先生则称，扎哈里极其热爱飞行，因此在家里打造了一个模拟器。他的家位于马来西亚首都吉隆坡西郊的一个封闭小区。
A Facebook page apparently created by Mr. Zaharie in 2012 shows photos of the simulator and of a small remote aircraft that reportedly belonged to him. “Motion!” he apparently wrote in a posting on a web forum for motion simulator aficionados. “Looking for buddies to share this passion.”
在看似是扎哈里2012年创建的Facebook页面上，张贴了据报属于他的模拟器和一架小型遥控飞机的照片。他似乎还在运动模拟器爱好者的一家网上论坛上发帖，“动起来！寻找同好。”
On Friday, the chief executive of Malaysia Airlines, Ahmad Jauhari Yahya, was asked about reports that one of the pilots kept a flight simulator at home. “As far as pilots are concerned, everyone is actually free to do their own hobby,” he replied. “Quite a few pilots do have flight simulators at home.”
上周五，马航首席执行官阿迈德·焦哈里·叶哈亚(Ahmad Jauhari Yahya)被问及有报道称机上的一名飞行员在家里安装了模拟器。叶哈亚回答说，“就飞行员而言，他们实际上有保持自己爱好的自由。有不少飞行员确实在家里安装了模拟器。”
Other photos on Facebook show Mr. Zaharie cooking; he was reportedly a passionate chef.
Facebook上的其他照片显示扎哈里在做菜；据报道他爱好烹饪。
He also curated a YouTube channel of video guides in which he affably and patiently demonstrated home maintenance tasks, including repairing the ice maker on a refrigerator and tuning air-conditioners to save money.
他还主持了YouTube的一个视频指南频道，他在频道中和蔼耐心地示范了家里的维修活计，包括维修冰箱里的制冰器，及调节空调以节省费用。
“He truly has a good heart,” wrote the author of a tribute page created last week for the pilot.
上周为他建立悼念网页的作者写道，“他真的有一颗善良的心。”
Less is publicly known about Mr. Fariq, who was also in the cockpit when the flight took off on March 8. According to Malaysia Airlines, he joined the company in 2007 and has logged more than 2,700 hours of flight time. A tribute page set up for Flight 370’s crew quotes his grandmother calling him “a good son, obedient, respect the elders and a pious man.” Neighbors said that he liked to play futsal, a sport similar to soccer and popular in Southeast Asia, and that he was engaged to be married, according to The Associated Press.
公众对法里克的了解更少一些，当飞机在3月8日起飞时，他也在驾驶舱内。根据马航的信息，他在2007年加入了马航，有2700多个小时的飞行时间。为370次航班乘务人员建立的悼念网页引用他祖母的话，称他是“一个好孩子，性情温顺，尊敬老人，为人虔诚。”邻居们说，他喜欢踢室内五人足球赛，这是一种类似足球的运动，在东南亚相当流行。据美联社(Associated Press)报道，他已经订婚，就快要结婚了。
But Mr. Fariq’s track record has come under scrutiny in recent days after a woman, Jonti Roos, claimed that he and another captain had brought her and a friend to ride in the cockpit on a flight from Phuket, Thailand, to Kuala Lumpur in 2011. Ms. Roos provided the Australian television program “A Current Affair” with photos of her and a man she identified as Mr. Fariq.
不过，法里克的飞行记录在近日受到了调查，原因是一名叫永蒂·罗斯(Jonti Roos)的女性声称，在她2011年乘机从泰国普吉岛飞往吉隆坡的一次航行中，法里克和另一名机长曾邀请她和朋友进入驾驶舱。罗斯向澳大利亚电视节目《时事》(A Current Affair)提供了她和一名男子的照片，她说那名男子就是法里克。
The two women were in the cockpit from takeoff to landing, Ms. Roos said. “Throughout the whole flight they were talking to us,” she said on the program.
罗斯说，从飞机起飞到降落的整个航程中，她们一直都待在驾驶舱里。她还在节目中表示，“整个飞行途中，他们都在和我们说话。”
In his comments to reporters on Saturday, the prime minister explained how the aircraft’s communications systems were systematically disabled, perhaps by someone with intimate knowledge of the plane. He said that one system was disabled as the plane flew over the northeast coast of Malaysia, and that a second, a transponder, was disabled a few minutes later. The aircraft then altered course and flew over the Malaysian mainland before turning to the northwest and heading out to the open sea.
在上周六对记者发表评论时，马来西亚总理解释说，飞机的通讯系统之所以会整体失效，也许是因为飞机上有熟悉飞机性能的人。他说，其中一套系统失效时，飞机正在飞越马来西亚东北海岸，另一套系统，即应答器，也在几分钟后失效。之后飞机就改变了航向，在飞过马来西亚半岛后转向西北方向，朝大海飞去。