KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — One was only a few years out of flight school and still living at home with his family, but he was getting serious about a girlfriend, another pilot, and talking about getting married.
马来西亚吉隆坡——一个刚从航空学校毕业没几年，仍然和家人住在一起，但已经开始和一个女友认真交往，谈婚论嫁，女友也是飞行员。
The other, a grandfather and veteran pilot widely respected by his colleagues, brimmed with enthusiasm for flying, cooking and home repair hobbies.
另一个已经当了爷爷，是一名经验丰富的飞行员，在同事中德高望重，热爱飞行、烹饪和家居维修。
The two men, who sat at the controls of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 when it took off from Kuala Lumpur International Airport on March 8, led by nearly every measure ordinary lives revolving around family and work.
无论以哪种标准衡量，这两名男子都过着以家庭和工作为核心的、非常普通的生活。3月8日，当马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370航班从吉隆坡国际机场(Kuala Lumpur International Airport)起飞时，控制飞机的正是他们。
That is why even the suggestion that the captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, and the first officer, Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, somehow had a hand in the disappearance of Flight 370 has been met with disbelief from friends, family members and colleagues. It is still a mystery what happened to the jetliner and the 239 people on board. But increasingly, the evidence shows that the disappearance was most likely not an accident, and that whoever changed the plane’s flight path and turned off its communications systems had expert knowledge of the aircraft.
因此，当有人提出现年53岁的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)和27岁的副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)在370航班消失事件中难脱干系时，他们的朋友、家人和同事都深表怀疑。这架班机和机上的239人究竟遭遇了什么，目前仍是一个未解之谜。但越来越多的证据显示，飞机的失踪极有可能不是一次意外事件，而改变了飞机的航线并关掉通讯系统的人，毫无疑问拥有关于这架飞机的专业知识。
And that has inevitably led investigators to look into the lives and backgrounds of the pilots.
这不可避免地引发了调查人员对这两名飞行员生活和背景的调查。
Officials have not accused the pilots of responsibility and have emphasized that they are scouring the backgrounds of everyone on the flight. Further, if one or both of them intentionally diverted the plane from its scheduled route to Beijing, there appears to be no obvious motive.
官员们并没有说这两名飞行员对飞机失踪负有责任，而且已经强调说，正在对机上所有人进行调查。此外，他们中的任何一个都没有故意改变这架飞机航线的明显动机。该飞机原定飞往北京。
Relatives, friends and colleagues have lined up in the pilots’ defense, saying that the mere suggestion of their involvement was unimaginable.
亲属、朋友和同事纷纷为他们辩护，他们说，无法想象二人参与了此事。
“Quite unthinkable,” Sivarasa Rasiah, a member of Parliament, said in an interview Monday.
国会议员西华拉沙(Sivarasa Rasiah)周一接受采访时说，“这太不合理了。”
Mr. Sivarasa said he got to know Mr. Zaharie when the pilot volunteered to work on his political campaign last year. “He was a very likable, very sociable kind of guy,” Mr. Sivarasa said. “He would not have actively, in any way, endangered the lives of his passengers.”
西华拉沙说，扎哈里去年曾在他的政治活动中做志愿者，因此结识了他。“他是那种非常随和、非常合群的人，”西华拉沙说，“他无论如何都不会主动把乘客的生命置于危险之中。”
The pilots’ immediate family members have said little publicly about the case, resolutely maintaining their privacy. And officials have released scant information about the investigation of the men’s backgrounds.
这两名飞行员的直系亲属几乎从未公开对此事发表评论，对个人隐私的保护非常坚决。官员们也几乎没有公布调查这两名男子的相关信息。
But in interviews this week with relatives, friends and colleagues, a fuller picture has emerged — one absent any obvious indicators that might support a theory of the pilots’ involvement in a hijack plan.
但本周，在他们的亲属、朋友和同事接受的采访中，更全面的信息浮出水面——但仍然没有明显证据能够支持二人参与劫机的说法。
Mr. Zaharie’s marriage appeared to be breaking up, according to a friend and colleague as well as Malaysian news reports, though he and his wife had continued to live together in a gated community in a western suburb of Kuala Lumpur. Friends and colleagues said he remained upbeat and continued to embrace his passion for flying, in and outside of his job at Malaysia Airlines.
根据马来西亚的新闻报道，以及一个同事和友人的说法，扎哈里的婚姻似乎正在破裂，不过他和妻子仍然生活在一起，住在吉隆坡西郊的一个封闭式社区。朋友和同事们说，他仍然乐呵呵的，仍然对飞行充满激情，无论是在马来西亚航空公司工作时，还是在工作之外都是如此。
Among Malaysia’s aviators, Mr. Zaharie had a reputation for professionalism and bonhomie, and was regarded by younger pilots as something of a mentor.
在马来西亚的飞行员中，扎哈里出色的业务能力和宜人的性格有口皆碑，年轻的飞行员把他看做导师般的人物。
“A very nice guy, passionate about aviation, and among the community of pilots, one of the most respected,” said a colleague in the industry who asked not to be named because his company had forbidden employees to comment on the case.
“他是一个非常好的人，对飞行充满热情，是飞行员圈里最受人尊敬的人之一，”业界一名同事说。这名同事要求不具名，因为他所在的公司禁止员工评论此事。
This camaraderie extended beyond his professional life to the broader community of aviation aficionados, and he became a lively and well-known participant in several online forums dedicated to flight simulation. He was so enthralled by flight simulation that he built himself a simulator in his home and would invite friends and fellow pilots over to play with it. (Investigators removed the simulator from his home over the weekend and said they were studying it for clues.)
这种朋友情谊从他的职业生活延伸到了更大的飞行迷圈子。他在多个专门讨论飞行模拟的在线论坛上很活跃，而且很有名。他对模拟飞行非常着迷，在自己家里打造了一个模拟器，还会邀请朋友和飞行员同事去家里体验模拟器。（周末，调查人员将那个模拟器从他家拆走了，称他们正在研究模拟器，看能不能找到线索。）
Mr. Zaharie “was well known to many in the flight simulation community because he had developed an online presence in which he dedicated many hours of his time to promoting the enjoyment of flying generally, and flight simulation specifically,” Robert S. Randazzo, president of PMDG, which develops flight simulation software, wrote in the forum Avsim last week.
上周，开发飞行模拟软件的公司PMDG董事长罗伯特·S·兰达佐(Robert S. Randazzo)在论坛Avsim上写道，扎哈里在“模拟飞行圈里很有名，因为他常在网上现身，投入大量时间宣传飞行的乐趣，特别是模拟飞行的乐趣”。