LOS ANGELES — The murder was grisly. A koala disappeared from the Los Angeles Zoo one night this month. Its body, mangled and bloody, was found the next morning on a nearby hillside.
这场凶杀非常残忍。本月的一天深夜一只考拉熊从洛杉矶公园无故消失了。第二天清晨考拉的尸体在附近的一个小山坡上被找到，血肉模糊，惨不忍睹。
Suspicion immediately fell on the area’s most famous resident: a wild mountain lion, known as P-22, who has made a home in the rugged hills near the zoo in this city’s Griffith Park since wandering from a nearby national recreation area in 2012.
疑凶很快锁定在附近区域一个很出名的小区的一个野生美洲狮的身上。这只美洲狮因它22英寸高的身躯而为人所知。自2012年从附近的国家休闲区晃荡出走后，就在洛杉矶格里菲斯公园附近的一个崎岖不平的小山坡上安了家。
The big cat had been caught on video roaming the zoo on the night of the attack. Besides, who else could have hopped the zoo’s nine-foot fence? Certainly not a coyote.
当天深夜的那场袭击事件中，录像显示一只体格巨大的猫在公园里漫步时被逮住了。不仅如此，录像里什么其他动物可以跳出公园里九英寸高的栅栏？这显然不是一只草原狼的所作所为。
The question of what will happen to P-22 has riveted the city for weeks now, as state officials conduct DNA tests to confirm that he is the culprit.
目前发生在这只野生美洲狮身上这场血案问题已经困扰了这座城市数周了。因为州府的官员建议做DNA检测来确认美洲狮是罪魁祸首。
Mitch O’Farrell, a Los Angeles city councilman, suggested that perhaps it was time to remove P-22 from the park, an area popular with hikers, many of whom bring small children and even smaller dogs with them. Many here recall that in 2014, a mountain lion in Northern California attacked and tried to carry off a young boy.
一位叫米奇·欧·法雷尔的州议员建议说，是时候将美洲狮赶出格里菲斯公园了。这座公园很受背包客的欢迎，很多远足旅行者带上他们的孩子甚至宠物狗来这边玩。这儿的很多背包客回忆说，在2014年加利福利亚北部的一只美洲狮攻击过人而且试图叼走一个小男孩。
But far from prompting an outcry about public safety, the koala’s death has revealed a city at ease with wildlife in its midst, even potentially dangerous specimens. Opinion pieces opposing any effort to remove P-22 have appeared in local newspapers. The zoo announced that it would not seek a permit to kill him.
但虽不至于导致引起对城市安全问题的抗议，这次考拉的死暴露出一个问题：一个内部有野生生物的宜居城市也可能成为一个有潜在危险的样本。反对一切形式努力想赶走美洲豹的评论已经见诸各大报刊。公园宣称不会寻找除掉美洲狮的可能性。
Lisa Lampman, on a visit to the zoo this week with her 3-year-old daughter, was unperturbed. “I’m not worried about it at all,” said Ms. Lampman, 46. “We hike around all the time. I’ve seen bobcats and coyotes.”
四十六岁的莉莎·拉波曼这周带着他三岁的女儿去了一趟格里菲斯公园，她表现得很平静。“我一点都不担心。”“我们一直都在远足旅行，我已经见过山猫和草原狼。”
Even officials at the zoo — which has spent a decade trying to rehabilitate its reputation after falling into disrepair during the 1990s when coyotes sneaked through a broken fence and snacked on rare birds — said they hoped P-22 would remain in the park. For now, the koalas are being taken inside at night, at least until the zoo can build a fence high enough to keep out a mountain lion.
在二十世纪九十年代，草原狼曾偷偷沿着破陋的栅栏逃了出去并吞噬了几只珍稀鸟类。为此公园花了十年时间尝试恢复因此事导致的民众的恐慌和不安。但即使如此，公园的负责人还是希望，美洲狮P-22能继续留在公园。现在所有的考拉在深夜都是被关在里面的，至少公园可以修足够高的围墙来看住美洲狮防止出逃。
“This is a natural park and home to many species of wildlife,” April Spurlock, a spokeswoman for the zoo, wrote in an email. “We will continue to adapt to P-22.”
一位公园的女性发言人在邮件里写道：“这里是一个有大自然气息的公园，也是很多野生动物的家园。我们会继续适应P-22。”
The mountain lion has built a following that aspiring actors here might envy: Facebook and Twitter fan accounts, his photograph splashed across the pages of a major magazine, his face tattooed on the arm of at least one especially devoted admirer.
好多野心勃勃的演员明星们都嫉妒美洲狮P-22，他创了好多记录：拥有脸书和推特粉丝账号，他的照片出现在很多主流杂志出的内页。他的形象被很多追随者作为纹身纹在手臂上。
“He’s become kind of a celebrity, as will happen in L.A.,” said Andrew Hughan, a spokesman for the California Department of Fish and Wildlife.
作为加利福利亚鱼类以及野生动物保护部门的发言人，安德鲁·哈格汉说道，“在某种意义上他已经成了一个名人，正如在洛杉矶发生的一切那样。”
Earlier this week, one of the P-22 Twitter accounts asked whether Mr. O’Farrell still wanted him removed.
这周早些时候，P-22众多推特账号的其中一个发问说是否欧·法雷尔先生仍想赶走美洲狮P-22。
Not anymore, as it turns out. In an interview, the city councilman said he believed P-22 should stay in the park for now, given that he had shown no aggressiveness toward humans. But Mr. O’Farrell remained wary. “I’m rooting for his survival,” he said. “He’s at the apex of the food chain there. And I have my doubts whether his life is sustainable there indefinitely.”
正如事件发生那样，赶走美洲狮的想法不会再出现。在一次访问中，考虑到美洲狮从未表现出对人类攻击的意图，这位州议员说他认为P-22目前应该留在公园里。但法雷尔先生仍旧表现得格外谨慎：“P-22在食物链的顶端，我担心我们是否可以无限期的留住他。”
No one has suggested that the park is an ideal habitat for P-22. He is the only lion in the park (which makes his celebrity pretty useless for picking up females). Two years ago he contracted mange. And although he does occasionally come down out of the hills — like the time last year when he spent a day camped under a house in the Los Feliz neighborhood — the park is not a large enough territory for an adult mountain lion.
没有人认为公园是P-22的理想栖息地。他是目前格里菲斯公园唯一的一只美洲狮，但他高涨的人气和受欢迎程度，对于寻找配偶方面，没有什么卵用。两年前他患上了疥螨病。他偶尔候也会偷跑下山，去年他就在菲里滋小区的一个屋檐下待了一天。但即便如此，对于一只成年雄性美洲狮来说，格里菲斯公园终究不是一个足够大的领地。
The problem, experts say, is that there is nowhere else for him to go. Male mountain lions fight to the death to protect their territory, and there is no suitable habitat left unclaimed in California. “It’s not like there is some mountain lion Shangri-La with no adult male lion,” said Seth Riley, a wildlife ecologist with the National Park Service, which has been tracking P-22 with a GPS collar since 2012. “Moving animals around generally results in their death.”
专家们说，问题在于目前美洲狮也无处可去。雄性美洲狮会拼死抗争来守护他们的领地，在加利福尼亚也没什么合适的遗留的未认证过的区域供美洲狮作为栖息地。塞斯·瑞莱是一位在国家公园管理局上班研究野生生物的生态学家，他说道：“不像有些香格里拉大峡谷那样没有成年雄性美洲狮，P-22频繁在其他动物门周边活动会一般会导致他们的死亡。从2012年开始，国家公园管理局已经为P-22装上了具有定位功能的GPS项圈。
There are benefits to having an apex predator in Griffith Park, said David Ryu, the city councilman whose district includes the park. They eat coyotes, which are much more likely than a mountain lion to eat a pet dog.
大卫·刘是这座城市的议员，他的职责范围也包括这座公园。他说在公园里保留一个在食物链顶端的食肉动物也是大有裨益的。他们吃山猫，这和美洲狮吃掉一只宠物狗差不多。
“If we get rid of him, what next?” Mr. Ryu said. “Do we get rid of all the coyotes? They prey on raccoons. Then do we get rid of the raccoons? Where do you draw the line?”
“如果我们赶走美洲狮，接下来会发生什么呢？”大卫·刘说到，“我们要除掉所有的草原狼吗？草原狼捕食浣熊，接着们要对浣熊赶尽杀绝吗？尺度线在哪里呢？”