PARIS — Tony Balet came to work on Saturday with a ribbon pinned on his shirt. It was red, white, blue and black.
巴黎——托尼·巴列特(Tony Balet)上周六去上班时，在衬衫上别了一根丝带。红、白、蓝、黑四色丝带。
“I decided to wear it today because I am a Frenchman, and because people are dead,” said Mr. Balet, a 57-year-old stylist, standing by rolls of fabric in the Dreyfus store at the Marché Saint-Pierre.
“我决定今天戴着它，因为我是法国人，因为有人遇难了，”57岁的设计师巴列特站在圣皮埃尔市场(Marché Saint-Pierre)德雷福斯商店的布匹旁说。
“And they died because they were innocent and they were young,” he said. “They had nothing to do with anything; they were just out to have fun. And they were killed, one by one.”
“他们死了，他们都是无辜者，他们还年轻，”他说。“他们没有参与任何事情；他们只不过出门去消遣，结果就被打死了，一个接一个。”
Like many old European cities, Paris has a history of violence, and each time, the city has absorbed it, and in some ways, even managed to forget it.
就像很多古老的欧洲城市一样，巴黎历史上也出现过暴力事件，这座城市每一次都挺了过来，而且从某些方面来说，甚至设法忘了它们。
Parisians and tourists typically walk through the city’s famous sites with little thought for the earlier carnage — the Protestants massacred at the Louvre on St. Bartholomew’s Day in 1572, the aristocrats guillotined on the Place de la Concorde during the French Revolution, or the Tuileries palace burned during the Commune of 1871. Paris was spared during the Nazi occupation, but many of its citizens were not, with many of them commemorated on laconic plaques scattered through the city.
巴黎人和游客穿行在巴黎的著名景点时，很少想到历史上的屠杀事件——1572年圣巴托罗缪日(St. Bartholomew’s Day)在卢浮宫屠杀新教徒，法国大革命期间在协和广场的断头台上屠杀贵族，以及1871年巴黎公社运动中遭到焚烧的杜伊勒里宫。纳粹占领期间，巴黎没有遭到破坏，但很多居民却未能幸免于难，一些纪念他们的用语简明的牌匾散布在城中各处。
But the killings on Friday night came just 10 months after the massacre at Charlie Hebdo and the attack on a kosher grocery store, and seemed to many people here to be deliberately targeted at their way of life and their young people in particular, provoking fear and new concern about France’s ability to manage the gulf between Muslims and non-Muslims here.
但是，这里的很多人认为，《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)和犹太食品杂货店遇袭仅仅10个月之后，在上周五晚发生的这起杀戮事件，是在刻意针对巴黎的生活方式和这里的年轻人。它引发了恐惧感，也让人对法国应对穆斯林和非穆斯林隔阂的能力产生了担忧。
On Jan. 7, on the night of the killings at the editorial offices of Charlie Hebdo, thousands of Parisians spontaneously came out on the streets, bearing candles. Following the shooting later at the kosher grocery store, which resulted in more deaths, that mood of defiance and resilience grew until Jan. 11, when millions of people joined an official march of unity and solidarity in Paris.
1月7日，《查理周报》编辑部遭到血洗的那晚，成千上万的巴黎人自发举着蜡烛走上街头。而后造成了更多死伤的犹太食品店袭击案，愈发加剧了蔑视与振作的情绪，最终发展成1月11日的一场大游行，数百万人在巴黎参加这场正式活动，表达他们的团结一心。
This time, most people agree, the mood is different; the “spirit of January 11th,” so often cited by politicians, seems a distant memory. The city on Saturday was somber and subdued as people absorbed the news.
大多数人都认为，这一次的气氛不同于上次；政客经常提到的“1月11日的精神”似乎已经成为遥远的记忆。上周六，面对恐怖袭击的消息还没有缓过神来的巴黎，是忧郁和压抑的。
“Last time was the first time,” said Jurgen Maillet, who ducked under a cafe awning for shelter from a slight drizzle. “This is the second time. It’s different.”
“上次是第一次，这是第二次。情况不同。”屈身在一间咖啡厅的遮阳篷下躲避细雨的尤尔根·马列特(Jurgen Maillet)说。
Many stores — including the “grands magasins” like Printemps and Galeries Lafayette — were shut; so were the museums, movie theaters and swimming pools, some with signs that said simply that the closings were because of “events.” A popular park, the Buttes Chaumont in the north of Paris, closed midday because of what it referred to as “rumors.”
很多商店都没有开门，其中包括像春天和老佛爷这样的百货商店；博物馆、电影院和游泳馆也纷纷闭馆，其中一些贴出了告示，只说是因为“有事”而闭馆。巴黎北部很受欢迎的巴茨肖蒙(Buttes Chaumont)公园也表示收到“一些传言”，在中午时闭了园。
Traffic was slow and shoppers at the Marché Saint-Pierre were scarce, nothing like the usual Saturday crowds that come looking for discounts, mingling with the tourists heading up the hill to the Basilica of Sacré-Coeur.
车行缓慢，圣-皮埃尔市场几乎没有人，一点也不像平时周六搜寻打折商品的人群与沿着斜坡前往圣心堂(Basilica of Sacré-Coeur)的游客混成一团的景象。
“It feels as though everything has come to a halt,” said a sales clerk at another fabric store. “Look, it’s empty today. We would have stayed home if our boss would have let us, out of respect for those who died.”
“感觉好像一切戛然而止，”另一家纺织品商店的售货员说。“看，今天都没有人来。如果我们的老板允许，我们会待在家里的，以示对死者的尊重。”
This time, the police cautioned against any mass gatherings and urged people to stay home. A Chinese restaurant near the Opera Garnier had to shoo customers away, after the police told them to shut down.
这次，警方告诫不要举行大型集会，呼吁人们留在家中。加尼叶歌剧院(Opera Garnier)附近的中餐馆不得不将顾客赶走，因为警方要求他们关门。
This time, as Mr. Balet noted, it seemed to be young people who were targeted, a fact that resonates with a generation that has no memory of past events. One retired couple said their children were more shocked than they were. “We remember the terrorist attacks in the 1990s,” said Françoise, who was afraid to give her last name. “Our children don’t have any recollection of that.”
这次，就像巴利特指出的那样，年轻人似乎成为攻击目标，这一事实在对过往事件没有记忆的一代人中引起共鸣。一对退休夫妇表示，他们的孩子受到的冲击比他们大。“我们记得20世纪90年代的恐怖袭击，”弗朗索瓦丝(Françoise)说。“我们的孩子根本不记得。”她不愿透露自己的姓氏。
Paris, with a population of 2.2 million inside the city limits, can feel very small at a time like this. Many young people have been to concerts like the one that was targeted at the Bataclan on Friday night. The neighborhood where the attacks took place is typically packed on weekends. That familiarity only brings the events closer to home.
尽管市区人口达到了220万，但在这样的时刻，巴黎会感觉到自己是个小地方。很多年轻人都去听过周五晚上在巴塔克兰(Bataclan)音乐厅举行的那种音乐会。遭到攻击的社区在周末都是人满为患。那种熟悉感只会让人们感觉距离袭击事件更近。
Mr. Balet has a 24-year-old friend who was at the Bataclan concert, and emerged safe but “traumatized,” he said. Another friend of his watched horrified from her window as people were gunned down in her street. Down the road, a woman at a minimarket said a friend of her son’s had been wounded in the attacks, and was now between life and death at a nearby hospital.
巴列特表示，一名24岁的朋友当时就在巴特克兰音乐厅，最终安全归来，但“受到精神创伤”。他的另一名朋友从窗户看到人们在大街上遭到枪击倒地，十分惊恐。沿着这条路走会看到一家小便利店，店里的一名女性表示，她儿子的一名朋友在袭击事件中受伤，目前处于生死关头，正在附近的一家医院接受治疗。
“Parisians are not very talkative,” said Maxim Ferron, the 30-year-old manager of Love Organic, a trendy tea shop in the 9th arrondissement. “They keep things, their thoughts to themselves. But this time, the shock is greater: Charlie Hebdo was a target, a symbol. Yesterday, the victims weren’t journalists, or famous. They were civilians.”
“巴黎人话不多，”30岁的Love Organic茶店经理马克西姆·费洪(Maxim Ferron)说。“他们将事情、想法留在心里。但这次的冲击更大：《查理周刊》是一个目标，一个象征。昨天，受害者不是记者或知名人士。他们都是平民。”
People talk about the need to show solidarity but they worry that the scale of the massacre will only divide society even further.
人们谈论展示团结的必要性，但他们担心屠杀的规模只会致使这个社会进一步分裂。
Some people of immigrant background, who declined to give their names, worry that people will conflate France’s large Muslim population with radical Islam.
一些具有移民背景的人担心，人们会将法国大量的穆斯林与极端伊斯兰主义混为一谈。这些人拒绝透露姓名。