In February 1984, during that period when a succession of decrepit Soviet leaders were dropping like flies, the British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, traveled to Moscow to attend the funeral of Yuri Andropov. There she made an extremely positive impression on her hosts. Not only did she remain outside in frigid temperatures during the entire ceremony, but her personal security man, who shadowed her in his vast overcoat with immense bulging pockets, drew many admiring glances. “Russian security were deeply impressed by this heavily armed man,” one British official recalled. When, however, Thatcher returned to the Kremlin, she removed her own coat and unzipped her fur-lined boots, “whereupon Detective Superintendent Parker produced a pair of high-heeled shoes from his pockets.” A firearm or a stiletto: Both seemed to have potential in the hands of a leader the Soviets had once christened the “Iron Lady.” But the story is indicative of the way the matter of her gender would often surprise and unsettle Thatcher’s contemporaries.
1984年2月，也就是多名老迈的苏联领导人接连死去的那段时间，英国首相玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)前往莫斯科参加尤里·安德罗波夫(Yuri Andropov)的葬礼。她给东道主留下的印象极佳。除了在冰天雪地的室外坚持参加了整个仪式外，她身后那位高大的贴身保镖也引来不少艳羡的目光，此人身着巨大的大衣，口袋十分夸张地鼓着。“俄罗斯安保人员对这个配备重型武装的男人很是钦佩，”一位英国官员回忆道。然而，等撒切尔回到克里姆林宫，脱掉外套和那双带毛衬里的靴子后，“侦查警司帕克便从自己的口袋中取出了一对高跟鞋。”枪械也罢，细高跟也罢，放在一个曾被苏联人称呼为“铁娘子”的领导人手里，似乎都是大有可为的。然而这个故事表明，撒切尔的性别问题时常会让她的同代人感到意外和不安。
The excellent first volume of Charles Moore’s official life of Britain’s only woman prime minister made the question of Thatcher’s gender the animating force behind the story: how this grocer’s daughter from an unfashionable part of England overcame the prejudice of the times and her party to become Conservative leader, and then battled the skepticism and constant slights that implied that as a woman, not least a lower-middle-class one, she wasn’t up to the job of running the country. By the end of Volume 1, Thatcher had triumphed over those doubters, not least in leading Britain to victory in the Falklands war — a conflict during which, inevitably, some had suggested that a female leader might lack the moral fortitude to direct British forces in wartime.
由查尔斯·摩尔(Charles Moore)执笔的这部英国唯一女首相的正传，在精彩纷呈的第一卷中用撒切尔的性别问题为故事注入了生命力：一个英格兰小地方杂货店老板的女儿，何以克服时代和她所在政党的偏见，成为保守党党魁，而后又要应对世人的怀疑，以及随时会遇到的轻慢——人们认为，一个女人，何况还是出身中下层的女人，是担负不起领导一个国家的职责的。在第一卷结尾，撒切尔已经征服了一些怀疑者，尤其是率领英国赢得马岛战争胜利后——冲突期间当然也免不了有些人会说，一个女性领袖可能缺乏在战时领导不列颠军队所需的坚韧。
This new volume opens with Thatcher reaping the political rewards of her success, winning a thumping 144-seat parliamentary majority at the 1983 general election, and covers the four-year period up to another comprehensive victory in 1987 when Thatcher became the first British prime minister since Lord Liverpool in the 1820s to win three successive elections. Those two landslides in 1983 and 1987 tell us something of the challenge facing Moore as biographer. Whereas the first volume was in many ways a bildungsroman — the education of Margaret Thatcher — this latest volume takes us from electoral triumph to electoral triumph, with not much to challenge her between times. It was, in the words of the Wham! pop song that Moore uses for the subtitle of the British edition of this book, a time when Thatcher had “Everything She Wants.”
而在新一卷的开篇，撒切尔正是收获政治果实的时候，1983年大选以144席的大胜成为议会多数党，四年后的1987年又是一场全面胜利，使撒切尔成为自19世纪20年代的利物浦伯爵以来，首位连续赢得三次选举的英国首相。1983和1987年的两次压倒性胜利让我们看到摩尔作为传记作者的为难之处。第一卷从很多方面来看是一部教育小说——玛格丽特·撒切尔的教育——最新一卷则是一场接一场的选举大胜，期间也没有多少能构成挑战的东西。摩尔用威猛乐队(Wham!)的一首流行歌作为本书英国版的副标题，称那是撒切尔的一段“要什么有什么”(Everything She Wants)的时期。
There were moments of drama, of course — the national coal miners’ strike and a cabinet scandal known as the Westland affair, for example — but during such times, even when she was vulnerable, Thatcher’s ascendancy was such that she was only occasionally stirred, and rarely shaken. In this she was helped by the poor quality of her opponents — the miners’ leader, Arthur Scargill, who took his members out on strike as winter ended and without the mandate of a national ballot, and the verbal circumlocutions of the Labour leader, Neil Kinnock. (“It needed a scalpel,” said Tony Blair, one of Kinnock’s young backbenchers. “All she got from Neil was a rather floppy baseball bat.”) In the end, it was the Provisional I.R.A. that came closest to taking Thatcher down with a bomb attack on her hotel during the 1984 Conservative party conference in Brighton. Had she been in the bathroom rather than the sitting room of her suite when it went off, she almost certainly would have been injured.
当然也不是没有事端——比如国家煤矿工人罢工和史称“威斯特兰事件”的内阁丑闻——但在那段时间，撒切尔的势力大到即便在处境不妙的时候，顶多也就是有些摇晃，很少被撼动。在这一点上，对手的拙劣帮了她——矿工领袖阿瑟·斯卡吉尔(Arthur Scargill)在开春的时候带领工会成员举行罢工，而且没有经过全国表决授权，还有说话拐弯抹角的工党领袖尼尔·金诺克(Neil Kinnock)（“这时候需要一把手术刀，”当时还是金诺克手下一名年轻的后座议员的托尼·布莱尔说。“结果尼尔给了她一根软塌塌的棒球棍。”）到头来，最有希望扳倒她的是临时爱尔兰共和军(Provisional I.R.A.)，1984年布赖顿保守党大会期间，他们在撒切尔的酒店安设了一枚炸弹。假设炸弹引爆时她正在套房的洗手间而不是起居室，几乎肯定会受伤。
For Thatcher, many of the most exacting moments of the period came abroad rather than at home. There was the wooing of Mikhail Gorbachev as the coming man in the Soviet hierarchy, and the presentation of him to the Americans as a man with whom “we can do business.” Surprisingly, Gorbachev was in many ways easier to do business with than President Reagan, the man who claimed her as a conservative soul mate. Thatcher fell out badly with the president over the American invasion of Grenada in 1983, and again in 1986 over what she saw as his naïveté on nuclear weapons at the Reykjavik summit. Her answer to these and other difficulties was relentlessly to pursue her point of view in a way that was uniquely her own. “Almost any other British leader would have let himself be overcome by boredom, embarrassment, good manners or sycophancy towards his powerful hosts,” Moore, in his characteristically laconic style, observes of one such occasion at Camp David in 1984. “But Mrs. Thatcher was impervious to boredom if she thought a point mattered, . . . and she almost never considered repetition a fault.” It was a performance that left the Americans “impressed and exasperated in equal measure.” Reagan admired her greatly, but never let the prime minister get in the way of everything he wanted. Asked why he had humiliated Thatcher by not telling her in advance about the invasion of Grenada, Reagan said simply, “Because I didn’t want her to say no.” It was, Thatcher said afterward, a bitter lesson in “how large powers behave.”
对撒切尔来说，那段时间最艰难的几个时刻，基本上出现在国外而不是国内。她试图获得苏联权力阶层的未来领袖米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail Gorbachev)的支持，把他作为一个“我们能说得上话的人”引见给美国。让人没想到的是，戈尔巴乔夫在很多方面比里根总统更好说话，而后者还称她是自己的保守主义灵魂伴侣。撒切尔在1983年美国入侵格林纳达一事上和里根发生激烈争执，1986年在雷克雅维克峰会上又吵了一架，因为她认为里根在核武问题上很幼稚。对于包括这几次纷争在内的许许多多困难，她的反应是不厌其烦地去追求一种她个人独有的角度。“换作其他任何一个英国领导人，面对这么强大的东主，都免不了受制于乏味、耻辱、礼节或对对方的阿谀奉承，”摩尔用他特有的洗练风格描述了1984年在戴维营目睹的一个场景。“但如果撒切尔夫人认为这是个重要的问题，她是不会被乏味影响的，……她几乎从来不会考虑去重复一个错误。”这样的表现给美国人留下的印象是“欣赏和恼怒各占一半。”里根对她十分钦佩，但绝不会让她左右自己的意志。有人问他为什么没有事先告知入侵格林纳达一事，令她感到受辱，里根直截了当地说，“因为我不想听到她说不。”撒切尔后来说，这对她是一个苦涩的教训，让她明白“大国是如何行事的”。
The frustrations of life as a junior partner provide some much needed grit in the oyster of what is otherwise a story of essentially unbroken success. The sense of struggle and triumph over adversity that made the first volume so compelling is inevitably missing here. The ground is already well trodden, so there are fewer surprises. Moore had exclusive access to Thatcher’s private and state papers, but any correctives to fine earlier biographies by the likes of Hugo Young and John Campbell are principally those of nuance rather than revelation.
在一种合作关系中成为弱势的一方，这种挫败感给原本只有顺风顺水的故事掺进了一把沙子。在第一卷中，与逆境的缠斗和胜利是引人入胜的，但第二卷免不了会缺少这些。这是个前人有过充分著述的话题，所以意想不到的东西会少一些。摩尔掌握着第一手的撒切尔私人和政府文献资料，然而之前的那些高水平的传记出自雨果·扬(Hugo Young)和约翰·坎贝尔(John Campbell)这样的人物之手，对它们的改进将更多地是一些细节，而不是重大发现。
This is not to underplay Moore’s remarkable achievement. He writes clearly and honestly, never letting his essentially positive view of Thatcher get in the way of his “public interest” duty to present us with the evidence as he finds it. Occasionally his broadly thematic approach means that we miss the drama of living in the moment, such as when in December 1984 Thatcher is balancing the miners’ strike, a visit to China to sign the Hong Kong Agreement and a trip to Camp David to berate President Reagan about the Strategic Defense Initiative (Star Wars). One of Thatcher’s greatest strengths was her ability to master astonishing amounts of detail without losing a sense of strategic vision. That achievement is lessened by the inevitable smoothing-out process of Moore’s thematic analysis, which makes events seem clearer than they actually were in the chaos of the day-to-day.
但摩尔的成就并不会有分毫折损。他的叙述清晰而诚恳，虽然本人对撒切尔持有一种正面的基本观感，但这并没有影响他恪尽自己的“公益”职责，把他找到的证据原样呈现出来。他从总体上采取了一种主题式的手法，这偶尔会让我们无法产生身临其境的刺激，比如1984年12月，撒切尔要在三件事之间寻找平衡：矿工罢工、前往中国签署香港协议和就战略防御倡议（Strategic Defense Initiative，即星球大战计划）斥责里根总统。撒切尔的其中一个特长是能把握巨量的细节，同时又保持着一种战略视野。然而这种成就势必会消解在摩尔的主题式分析过程里，相比事件在实际发生时的纷乱，摩尔的叙述显得更清晰。
Such cavils, however, are made possible only because Moore himself has set the bar almost impossibly high. His mastery of the vast range of topics with which Thatcher herself had to grapple is absolute, his marshaling of evidence adroit, and his judgments deliberate and fair. Moore remains on target to produce the definitive “case for the defense” of this titanic and still controversial figure. His work will very likely stand alongside that of John Morley, official biographer of Gladstone, as one of the masterpieces of British political history.
但是，之所以有这样的微文深诋，完全有赖于摩尔自己把标准抬到了一个难以置信的高度。在那些撒切尔本人曾应接不暇的众多话题面前，摩尔的处理显得十分自如，对证据的梳理精巧，论断审慎而公允。摩尔没有偏离他的初衷：就这个影响巨大且至今仍存争议的人物给出“有利于辩方的”权威陈词。他的作品很有希望比肩格莱斯顿(Glastone)的指定传记作者约翰·莫利(John Morley)，成为载入英国政治史册的杰作之一。
MARGARET THATCHER 
The Authorized Biography At Her Zenith: In London, Washington and Moscow 
By Charles Moore 
Illustrated. 821 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.