Econonerds eagerly await each new edition of the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook. Never mind the forecasts, what we’re waiting for are the analytical chapters, which are always interesting and even provocative. This latest report is no exception. In particular, Chapter 3 — although billed as an analysis of trends in real (inflation-adjusted) interest rates — in effect makes a compelling case for raising inflation targets above 2 percent, the current norm in advanced countries.
经济狂人热切盼望着国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）的《世界经济展望》(World Economic Outlook)出的每个新版本。别管那些预测，我们等待的是其中的分析章节：内容总是挺有趣，甚至是颇具争议性。最新的这份报告也不例外。尤其是第三章，尽管文中声称分析的是（经通胀调整的）真实利率的趋势，但是实际上有力地证明了应当提高通胀目标，而不是遵循发达国家采用的2%的现行标准。
This conclusion fits in with other I.M.F. research. Last month the fund’s blog — yes, it has one — discussed the problems created by “lowflation,” which is nearly as destructive as outright deflation. An earlier edition of the World Economic Outlook analyzed historical experience with high debt, and found that countries that were willing to let inflation erode their debt — including the United States — fared much better than those, like Britain after World War I, that clung to monetary and fiscal orthodoxy.
这一结论也与IMF的其他研究相符。上个月，该组织的博客——对，IMF开了个博客——探讨了“低通胀”(lowflation)带来的问题，发现它的破坏性直追真正的通缩。早前的一份《世界经济展望》报告分析了高负债的历史经验，发现愿意让通胀蚕食债务的国家——包括美国——比其他地方的表现要好得多，比如一战后死守货币与财政正统理念的英国。
But the I.M.F. evidently doesn’t feel able to say outright what its analysis clearly implies. Instead, the report resorts to euphemisms that preserve deniability: the analysis “could have implications for the appropriate monetary policy framework.”
不过，IMF似乎感到，不能直接说出自身的分析显然指向的结论，而是在报告中措辞委婉，保留了抵赖的余地：这一分析“或许可以指向适宜的货币政策框架”。
So what makes the obvious unsayable? In a direct sense, what we’re seeing is the power of conventional wisdom. But conventional wisdom doesn’t come from nowhere, and I’m increasingly convinced that our failure to deal with high unemployment has a lot to do with class interests.
那么，是什么让显而易见的东西说不出口呢？直白地讲，我们看到的是传统观念作祟。然而，传统观念并不是凭空冒出来的，而我越来越确信，我们之所以在应对高失业率上失败，很大程度上与阶层利益有关。
First, let’s talk about the case for higher inflation.
首先，我们来看看提高通胀的道理。
Many people understand that a falling price level is a bad thing; nobody wants to turn into Japan, which has struggled with deflation since the 1990s. What’s less understood is that there isn’t a red line at zero: an economy with 0.5 percent inflation is going to have many of the same problems as an economy with 0.5 percent deflation. That’s why the I.M.F. warned that “lowflation” is putting Europe at risk of Japanese-style stagnation, even though literal deflation hasn’t happened (yet).
很多人明白，物价水平持续下降是件坏事：没人想变成日本那样，从上世纪90年代开始就一直在通缩中苦苦挣扎。但较少被人理解的一点是，通胀水平为零并不是一条红线：通胀0.5%的经济体，会出现不少与通缩0.5%的经济体相同的问题。正因为如此，IMF发出警告，“低通胀”正使得欧洲处于日本式停滞的风险之下，尽管（尚）未出现严格意义上的通缩。
Moderate inflation turns out to serve several useful purposes. It’s good for debtors — and therefore good for the economy as a whole when an overhang of debt is holding back growth and job creation. It encourages people to spend rather than sit on cash — again, a good thing in a depressed economy. And it can serve as a kind of economic lubricant, making it easier to adjust wages and prices in the face of shifting demand.
事实表明，适度通胀可以达成多个有利的结果。它有益于欠债者——因此，当高悬的债务问题阻碍了经济增长与就业岗位的涌现时，这也有益于整体经济。它鼓励人们消费，而不是坐拥现金岿然不动——在经济欠佳之时，这又是一桩好事。此外，它还能发挥经济润滑剂的作用，在需求不断变化的时候，更易于调整薪资与物价。
But how much inflation is appropriate? European inflation is below 1 percent, which is clearly too low, and U.S. inflation isn’t that much higher. But would it be enough to get back to 2 percent, the official inflation target in both Europe and the United States? Almost certainly not.
可是，到底多大的通胀算适度？欧洲目前的通胀率不到1%，显然过低，美国当前的通胀率也高不了多少。不过，如果回到欧美的官方通胀目标2%，是不是就足够了呢？几乎可以肯定是不够的。
You see, monetary experts have long known about the case for moderate inflation, but back in the 1990s, when the 2 percent target was hardening into policy orthodoxy, they thought that 2 percent was high enough to do the job. In particular, they thought it was enough to make liquidity traps — periods when even an interest rate of zero isn’t low enough to restore full employment — very rare. But America has now been in a liquidity trap for more than five years. Clearly, the experts were wrong.
听我说，货币专家早就明白适度通胀的道理，但在上世纪90年代，当2%的目标固化为政策规范的时候，他们认为2%就足以完成使命了。特别是，他们以为2%的通胀就足以让流动性陷阱极少出现。在流动性陷阱中，零利率也不能恢复充分就业。可是，美国如今已经在流动性陷阱里徘徊了五年多。显然，这些专家们搞错了。
Furthermore, as the latest I.M.F. report shows, there’s strong evidence that changes in the global economy are increasing the tendency of investors to hoard cash rather than put funds to work, thereby increasing the risk of liquidity traps unless the inflation target is raised. But the report never dares to say this outright.
而且，正如IMF的最新报告显示的那样，有力的证据表明，当前的全球经济变化趋势是，投资者越来越倾向于囤积现金，而不是让资金投入流通，从而增加了流动性陷阱的风险，除非提高通胀目标。不过，报告从头到尾都不敢直接点明这一点。
So why is the obvious unsayable? One answer is that serious people like to prove their seriousness by calling for tough choices and sacrifice (by other people, of course). They hate being told about answers that don’t involve more suffering.
那么，明摆的事情为何不能说出口？一个答案在于，那些一本正经的人喜欢通过呼吁做出艰难的抉择和牺牲（当然是让其他人），来证明自己的一本正经。他们痛恨听到不涉及更多苦难的答案。