PARIS — On Monday night Stan Wawrinka, the men’s singles champion at the Australian Open in January, lost in the first round at the French Open.
巴黎——周一晚，今年1月夺得澳大利亚网球公开赛(Australian Open)男单冠军的斯坦·瓦林卡(Stan Wawrinka)在法国网球公开赛(French Open)上首轮出局。
On Tuesday afternoon Li Na, the women’s singles champion in Australia, followed him out of the tournament, completing a historic failure by Grand Slam champions with a 7-5, 3-6, 6-1 loss to Kristina Mladenovic of France.
周二下午，澳网女单冠军李娜步其后尘，以5-7、6-3和1-6的比分输给法国选手克里斯蒂娜·穆拉德诺维奇(Kristina Mladenovic)，惨遭淘汰。两人的同时失利创造了大满贯冠军失败的历史。
It is the first time that both singles champions of a Grand Slam event were eliminated in the first round of the next major, according to the International Tennis Federation.
根据国际网球联合会(International Tennis Federation)的统计，这是历史上首次出现，大满贯男女单打冠军双双在下一项大满贯赛事中首轮出局。
“In my mind, I didn’t have any idea how to play the match,” the second-seeded Li said.
“在我心里，我不知道应该怎么打比赛，”2号种子李娜说。
Mladenovic, who turned 21 this month, was the girls’ champion here five years ago. At the tour level, however, she has been more successful as a doubles player, winning the mixed title with Daniel Nestor at Wimbledon in 2013 and at the Australian Open this year.
穆拉德诺维奇本月刚满21岁，五年前曾在这里拿下青少年组的女单冠军。不过，在巡回赛中，她成绩更好的是双打，与丹尼尔·内斯特(Daniel Nestor)搭档，夺得了2013年的温布尔登及今年的澳网混双冠军。
Ranked 103rd in singles, Mladenovic had won only one such match at Roland Garros in her previous five appearances and had not advanced past the second round of any tournament this year. But one of her four previous victories this season was against Simona Halep, now ranked No. 4, in Paris in late January.
穆拉德诺维奇单打排名第103位，之前五次在罗兰加洛斯球场的成年组女单比赛中亮相，只取得了一场胜利，而且未曾在今年的任何赛事中闯过第二轮。不过，在法网前的本赛季四场单打胜利中，有一场是她于1月底在巴黎击败了西蒙娜·哈勒普(Simona Halep)，而后者在本届法网中位列4号种子。
“I knew that I was made of this stuff,” Mladenovic said after the biggest singles victory of her career. “I’m a tennis player. I know that. I’m very ambitious. I have never hidden that. It really is good to have such a win.”
“我知道自己天生是做这个的，”取得职业生涯中最大的单打胜利后，穆拉德诺维奇说。“我是个网球运动员，我明白。我很有志向，从来也没有掩盖这一点。取得这样的胜利实在是太棒了。”
Li’s loss unfolded in a similar fashion to Wawrinka’s. Li won the second set after dropping the first, as did he, and appeared in good position to turn the match to her favor. But after a hold in her first service game of the third set, she did not win another game. Li was broken at love in the fourth game of the third, and Mladenovic held on.
李娜的失利过程与瓦林卡类似。两人均丢掉第一盘，随后赢得第二盘，此时的局势似乎也对己有利。然而，第三盘中保住自己的第一个发球局后，李娜再未赢得任何一局。在这一盘的第四局，她一分未得，遭到破发，而穆拉德诺维奇则一直保发。
After Li won the second set, Mladenovic said, “I thought, Fight harder, fight harder, to refocus on all the aspects of the game, to give her no occasion because she would seize all of these opportunities.”
穆拉德诺维奇称，李娜赢得第二盘后，“我想，打得再努力点、再努力点，重新把注意力放到比赛的方方面面上，不要让她有机可乘，因为她会抓住所有的机会。”
Li said she would have lost Tuesday no matter who she played because she gave the match away. She added that she was most disappointed because the problem was in her mind, not in technique.
李娜表示，不管对手是谁，她周二都会输掉比赛，因为自己拱手送出了胜利。她还称，自己失望之极，因为问题出在心理方面，而非技术层面。
“The problem is myself,” said Li, the first Australian Open women’s champion to lose in the first round of the subsequent French Open since Lindsay Davenport in 2000. “I don’t think I’m doing well on the court.”
自2000年的林赛·达文波特(Lindsay Davenport)以来，这是首次出现澳网女单冠军在接下来的法网中第一轮出局。“是我自己的问题，”李娜说。“我觉得自己在球场上的表现并不好。”
Li rose to No. 2 in the rankings after her victory at the Australian Open, her second Grand Slam title. Her first came here in 2011, but since then, she has not had much success at Roland Garros, losing in the fourth round in 2012 and in the second round last year.
在今年的澳网上赢得第二座大满贯奖杯后，李娜的世界排名升至第二。就是在法网，她于2011年获得了首个大满贯头衔。不过自那以后，她在罗兰加洛斯表现平平，2012年止步于第四轮，去年则是第二轮出局。
“I don’t think I should be looking forward for next year,” Li said.
“我想，我还不应该展望下一年，”李娜说。