The first year of President Xi Jinping’s administration, Prime Minister Li Keqiang said at the opening of the National People’s Congress on Wednesday, was: “Arduous.” “Complex.” “Difficult.” “Downward pressure on the economy increased.” “Natural disasters occurred frequently.”
以国家主席习近平为首的新政府履职的第一年，“任务艰巨而繁重”，“经济下行压力加大”，“自然灾害频发”，李克强总理周三在全国人民代表大会开幕式上这样说。
After this grim assessment, Mr. Li turned to the good news in his annual work report: The economy was stable and improved, with G.D.P. up 7.7 percent over last year to $56.9 trillion renminbi, or $9.2 trillion. Personal incomes rose, up 9.3 percent in real terms for rural residents and 7 percent for urban residents. Social programs — education, science and technology, culture and health — developed “vigorously,” he said, and China sent one spacecraft into orbit and landed another on the moon, and a submersible broke the record for manned deep-sea dives.
在做出这番严峻评估之后，李克强在年度政府工作报告中传达了好消息：经济运行稳中向好。国内生产总值达到56.9万亿元，比上年增长7.7％。城镇居民人均可支配收入实际增长7％，农村居民人均纯收入实际增长9.3％。社会事业蓬勃发展。教育、科技、文化、卫生等领域取得新进步。神舟十号遨游太空，嫦娥三号成功登月，蛟龙深潜再创纪录。
Chinese are accustomed to this form of presentation: descriptions of struggle, followed by lists of achievements, mostly economic. But then came something new, as Mr. Li addressed an issue, in colorful language, that is increasingly important to many Chinese: pollution.
中国人已经习惯了这套讲话模式：先是困难重重，再就是一系列的成就，大多是经济上的。然而在这之后，人们还是听到了点新东西：李克强用生动的语言提到一个对很多中国人来说越来越重要的问题：污染。
It was the last item on a list of nine “Major Tasks for 2014″: “Building China into a beautiful homeland with a sound ecological environment.”
这个问题在九项"2014年重点工作"中名列最后：“努力建设生态文明的美好家园。”
The standout phrase: “We will declare war against pollution and fight it with the same determination we battled poverty.”
其中最引人注目的一句话是：“我们要像对贫困宣战一样，坚决向污染宣战。”
“Smog is affecting larger parts of China, and environmental pollution has become a major problem,” Mr. Li said, “which is nature’s red-light warning against the model of inefficient and blind development.”
李克强说，“雾霾天气范围扩大，环境污染矛盾突出，是大自然向粗放发展方式亮起的红灯。”
Among the specifics: Mr. Li said that 50,000 “small coal-fired furnaces” would be shut down in 2014. Coal-burning power plants with a production capacity of 15 million kilowatts will undergo “desulphurization,” plants with a production capacity of 130 million kilowatts will undergo “denitrification,” and plants with a production capacity of 180 million kilowatts will undergo “dust removal.”
李克强给出的具体措施包括：今年要淘汰燃煤小锅炉5万台，推进燃煤电厂脱硫改造1500万千瓦、脱硝改造1.3亿千瓦、除尘改造1.8亿千瓦。