After a four-year absence from theaters, Ang Lee will return this fall with a searing film about young American war heroes that may land him in the Oscar race. But the movie, billed as a cinematic leap forward because of the digitally radical way it was shot, has faced a major question.
从影院消失了四年的李安将在今年秋季回归，带来一部讲述美国年轻战争英雄的扣人心弦的影片，或许该片能令他加入到奥斯卡的角逐中去。这部影片由于在拍摄时采用了先进的数字手段，被誉为电影的一个飞跃，然而它也面临一个大问题。
Because few commercial theaters have projection systems that are technologically advanced enough, will anyone even be able to see “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” with all of Mr. Lee’s bells and whistles?
因为很少有商业院线拥有技术上足够先进的放映系统，所以就算有人看到《比利·林恩的中场战事》(Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk)，他们能看出李安在影片中特意安排的出彩之处吗？
At the very least, New Yorkers will.
至少纽约观众是能够的。
The New York Film Festival said on Monday that it would host the world premiere of Mr. Lee’s film on Oct. 14 in a theater — a relatively small one, with just 300 seats — rigged with projectors capable of playing the film in 3-D, 4K ultra-high-definition and at the extremely fast speed of 120 frames a second. No film has ever been shown publicly that way before, according to the festival and Sony Pictures, which will release “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” nationally on Nov. 11.
纽约电影节在周一宣布，它将于10月14日全球首映李安的这部电影，不过是在一个只有300个座位的小影院，它配备了放映该片所需的3-D、4K超清以及每秒120帧高速影片的设备。根据电影节和将于11月11日在全国发行《比利·林恩的中场战事》的索尼影业称，这种放映方式前所未有。
It may sound like techno-babble, but Mr. Lee’s blend of visual formats is a major departure for movie exhibition, particularly when it comes to the speed. Films have been presented almost exclusively at 24 frames a second since the 1920s. To a degree, that rate gives cinema its otherworldly quality — the blur when cameras pan from side to side, for instance.
这听上去像是让人一头雾水的技术行话，但是李安对视觉格式进行的混合是一种对电影放映的重大尝试，特别是在放映速度方面。自20世纪20年代以来，电影几乎一直是以每秒24帧的格式放映。在某种程度上，这个速度为电影赋予了一种超自然的感觉——比如当镜头从一侧扫到另一侧时的那种模糊感。
To achieve a sharper picture and limit the eye strain that can affect 3-D viewers, some filmmakers are experimenting with higher speeds. Peter Jackson tried 48 frames a second with “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey” in 2012; James Cameron is considering higher-speed cinematography for “Avatar” sequels. But no mainstream director has pushed as far as Mr. Lee, who has a history of embracing new technology.
为了获得更鲜明的图像，减少观看3-D电影时对眼睛的压力，有些拍摄者开始尝试更快的放映速度。彼得·杰克逊(Peter Jackson)在2012年的《霍比特人1：意外之旅》(The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey)中尝试了每秒48帧的速度；詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)考虑为《阿凡达》(Avatar)续集采用更高速的摄影技术。但是没有任何主流导演像李安走得那么远，他一直热衷采用新技术。
“I thought Billy’s journey, which is both intimate and epic, and told almost entirely from his point of view, lent itself particularly well to the emotion and intensity that this new approach fosters,” Mr. Lee said in a statement. He added that technology “should always be in service of artistic expression, to make it strong and fresh, because story and drama matter most.”
“我觉得比利的旅程既有个人性，又像是史诗，几乎完全是从他的角度来讲述，所以从情感上和强度上都特别适合这种新形式，”李安在一份声明中说。他又补充，技术“应该一直为艺术表达服务，令其变得更加强烈、鲜活，因为故事和戏剧性才是最重要的”。
Marc Platt, one of the film’s producers, said in an email that “movies today need to give audiences compelling reasons to escape their devices, and that means taking risks.”
该片的制片人之一马克·普拉特(Marc Platt)在电子邮件中说，“如今的电影需要给观众强烈的理由，去逃离他们自身，这意味着冒险。”
The film is considered a risk partly because the hyper-reality lent by the cinematography technology could be unsettling to viewers. “Test subjects that have seen some footage have commented that 40 minutes after seeing battle footage, they’re still shaking,” Ben Gervais, a production systems supervisor on the film, told Variety in April.
这部电影之所被视为一种冒险，部分是由于这部片子采用的摄影技术带来的超现实性可能会令观影者感到不安。“参加测试的观众看了一部分镜头，他们说，看过战争场面的40分钟之后，他们还在颤抖，”本片监制之一本·热尔维(Ben Gervais)4月在接受《综艺》(Variety)采访时说。
“Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk,” an adaptation of Ben Fountain’s novel, is about a hero in the Iraq war (played by Joe Alwyn) who is whisked back to the United States with fellow veterans after a harrowing battle. They go on a victory tour that ends with a halftime show at a Thanksgiving football game. The cast includes Kristen Stewart, Chris Tucker, Vin Diesel and Steve Martin. Sony and its partners spent a little under $40 million to make the movie.
《比利·林恩的中场战事》改编自本·方丹(Ben Fountain)的小说，它讲述了一个伊拉克战争英雄（乔·阿尔文[Joe Alwyn]饰演）在一场惨烈的战斗之后，和其他老兵一起调回美国。他们参加了一场庆祝胜利的巡回宣传，以一场感恩节橄榄球的中场秀告终。演员包括克里斯汀·斯图尔特(Kristen Stewart)、克里斯·塔克(Chris Tucker)、范·迪塞尔(Vin Diesel)和史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)。索尼影业及其合作伙伴对该片的投资不到4000万美元。
It is expected that the specially outfitted theater, which is at AMC Lincoln Square, will play “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk” when the film begins its theatrical run shortly after the end of the New York Film Festival. Moviegoers elsewhere will have to make do with whatever local multiplexes can provide. There are theaters, for instance, that can play a movie at 120 frames a second, though not in 3-D. Even Imax theaters can play 3-D movies only at a maximum of 60 frames a second. (Regardless of the setup, it will look sharper than a standard movie.)
这个特配了全套装备的影院位于AMC林肯广场，纽约电影节结束后，这部电影将在该影院上映，开始它的院线上映期。其他地方的观影者只能将就，看看本地的综合影厅可以提供什么样的条件。比如，有些影院可以放映每秒120帧的电影，但是没有3-D。就连能放映3-D电影的Imax影厅最多也只能以每秒60帧放映（不管通过什么装备放映，它看上去还是比普通电影要清晰得多）。
And it promises to give the festival the sizzle that seemed lacking when organizers announced the bulk of the lineup. Absent were hotly anticipated narrative movies like “Gone Girl” or “Captain Phillips,” both of which had their premieres at the event. “The 13th,” a Netflix documentary directed by Ava DuVernay that examines the United States’ high incarceration rate, will open the festival on Sept. 30.
该片有望为纽约电影节带来话题，特别是电影节的组织者所宣布的参赛片目中，有话题性的片子似乎不多。片目中没有类似《消失的爱人》(Gone Girl)和《菲利普船长》(Captain Phillips)那样受到热切期望的叙事影片，这两部片子之前都是在纽约电影节上首映的。由Netflix投拍、艾娃·德约列(Ava DuVernay)执导的纪录片《第13》(The 13th)是关于美国高监禁率的纪录片，将于9月30日作为电影节的开幕电影放映。
Known for auteur-driven and foreign-language cinema, the festival, presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, has a mixed track record as an awards indicator. Sony successfully unveiled David Fincher’s “The Social Network” there in 2010; it went on to collect $225 million at the global box office and receive nominations for eight Academy Awards, winning three. But Sony’s technologically adventurous “The Walk,” directed by Robert Zemeckis, was rebuffed by ticket buyers and awards groups after opening last year’s festival.
纽约电影节以风格导演的影片和外语电影为特色，由林肯中心电影协会主办，它在预测大奖方面，可谓胜负纪录参半。2010年，索尼影业成功地在该电影节上推出了大卫·芬奇(David Fincher)的《社交网络》(The Social Network)；它在全球收获了2.25亿美元票房，获得了八项奥斯卡奖提名，并赢得了其中三项。但是由索尼推出的罗伯特·泽米吉斯(Robert Zemeckis)执导、技术上给人新奇感的作品《云中漫步》(The Walk)去年在该电影节作为开幕电影上映之后，并没有获得观众与评奖团们的青睐。
Kent Jones, the event’s director, said in a statement that Mr. Lee’s film “moved me deeply — in the grandest way, as a story of America in the years after the invasion of Iraq, and on the most intimate person-to-person wavelength.”
电影节的总导演肯特·琼斯(Kent Jones)在一份声明中说，李安的电影“以最辉煌的方式深深打动了我，它讲述了美国入侵伊拉克战争之后的故事，并以最亲密的个人化方式呈现”。
In a phone interview, Mr. Jones added: “We are used to seeing 3-D used to focus on spectacle. This is precisely the opposite. It’s all about the faces, the smallest emotional shifts.”
在电话采访中，琼斯补充说：“我们习惯了3-D电影关注壮丽景观的做法。这部电影完全是它的反面。里面全都是人物的面孔，展现最为细微的情绪变化。”