MELBOURNE, Australia — In the immediate aftermath of most Grand Slam championships, the winners spout the usual clichés, shed a few tears and thank everyone they ever met and some people they do not know. There must be a manual for such occasions: thank, cry, cliché, repeat.
澳大利亚墨尔本——网球运动员在赢得大满贯(Grand Slam)赛事的冠军后，通常都会说一些陈词滥调，流几滴眼泪，感谢他们遇到的每一个人，也会感谢一些他们不认识的人。常见的套路是：感谢、哭、陈词滥调，如此重复。
Then there is Li Na and the acceptance speech that came after her Australian Open women’s singles title, which she captured Saturday, by defeating Dominika Cibulkova, 7-6 (3), 6-0. Her speech was basically the opposite of that.
李娜与众不同，她在夺得澳大利亚网球公开赛(Australian Open)女单决赛桂冠后发表的获奖感言也不落俗套。李娜在周六以7–6(3)、6–0的比分击败多米尼卡·齐布尔科娃(Dominika Cibulkova)后，她的发言基本上与上述套路相反。
To her agent, Max Eisenbud, Li said, “Make me rich.”
李娜感谢她的经纪人马克斯·艾森巴德(Max Eisenbud)“帮我赚了好多钱”。
To her husband, Jiang Shan, she said thank you in the form of a roast. She appreciated his dedication as her hitting partner, Li said, and the way he fixed her drinks and fixed her rackets. She noted his fame in China for that role. She ended by reminding him he was “so lucky to find me.” She said this on international television.
对于丈夫姜山，李娜以调侃的口吻表达了感谢。李娜说，她感谢姜山当她的陪练，为她准备饮品和球拍。李娜提到，姜山因此在中国非常有名。她在最后提醒姜山，“娶了我，你很幸运。”李娜在全球直播时发表了上述感言。
Perhaps she had a point. In victory, Li collected her second Grand Slam singles trophy; raised her standing as the most accomplished Chinese tennis player; and closed the gap on the No. 2 ranking, held by Victoria Azarenka, to 11 points. She also collected 2.65 million Australian dollars in prize money, or roughly $2.31 million.
李娜这么说或许是有道理的。李娜获得了第二个大满贯单打冠军；提高了自己的声誉，成为最有成就的中国网球选手；将与排名第二的维多利亚·阿扎伦卡(Victoria Azarenka)之间的比分差距缩小至11分。李娜还获得了265万澳元（约合1400万元人民币）的奖金。
Mr. Li Na, hitting partner, perpetual punch line, sounded like a pretty sweet gig.
当李娜的丈夫要当她的陪练，还老是被她调侃，但这听起来也像是一个幸福的差事。
Li entered her news conference to a round of applause from reporters, who oddly toasted her with Champagne and offered a “massive congratulations” and asked her when she realized she was funny. An official carried in her shiny silver trophy, which he handled with gloves. Someone did mention her husband, and asked whether he ever took offense.
李娜在记者的掌声中进入发布会现场，记者们纷纷举起香槟酒，表示“热烈祝贺”（这种祝贺的方式并不常见），还问她是什么时候意识到自己很幽默的。一名官员戴着手套送来闪亮的银质奖杯。的确有人提到了她的丈夫，并问他是否生过气。
“If he say, ‘Enough,’ I think I would do worse,” she said.
她说，“如果他说‘够了’，我就会表现得更差。”
Throughout the tournament, upsets had thrown the women’s draw into chaos. Down went Serena Williams, the favorite; Maria Sharapova, the top contender; and Azarenka, the two-time defending champion. Li played 13 sets before the final and won 12, and eventually she became the predicted winner; normally, a good sign, in this tournament, perhaps not.
在整个赛事中，各种出乎意料的结果致使女单签表一片混乱。热门选手塞雷娜·威廉姆斯(Serena Williams)、有力竞争者玛丽亚·莎拉波娃(Maria Sharapova)，以及两次夺冠的阿扎伦卡都被击败。李娜在决赛之前打了13盘比赛，赢了12盘，最终成为夺冠热门。一般来说，这是一个好迹象，但在这届比赛中，或许情况有所不同。
Still, Li could not shake what happened in the 2013 final against Azarenka, in which Li twice tumbled to the ground and once her head hit the court. Li brought up those stumbles repeatedly. In 2013, as in 2011, she had won the first set, stood one set from the trophy and faltered. The falls added embarrassment to the defeats.
李娜无法将2013年与阿扎伦卡的决赛中发生的情况抛诸脑后。当时李娜两次跌倒在地，一次头部磕到球场地面上。李娜曾多次提到这件事。2013年，就像2011年一样，李娜赢得了首盘，但在距离冠军仅有一盘之遥时落败。摔倒在地让失败显得更加难堪。
Six months later, Li nearly retired. That is her version of the story, anyway. She was on the way to Wimbledon, in a car with her coach, Carlos Rodriguez, and she floated the R-word. Rodriguez, the kind of mentor Li described as blunt, said, “O.K., let’s go home.”
六个月后，李娜几乎决定退役。至少李娜自己是这样讲的。当时李娜与教练卡洛斯‧罗德里格斯(Carlos Rodriguez)一同乘车，前往温布尔登。途中，李娜提到想退役，罗德里格斯说，“好，那回家去吧。”李娜称罗德里格斯是一名非常直率的教练。
That answer caught Li by surprise. She stayed. She played. In the third round, she clawed her way to a third-set victory over Klara Zakopalova. She made the quarterfinals.
这个回答让李娜受到震动。她留了下来，并参加了比赛。在第三轮比赛中，李娜竭尽全力，并在第三盘击败克拉拉·扎科帕洛娃(Klara Zakopalova)，进入四分之一决赛。
No one mentioned retirement again.
之后，没人再提退役的事情。
Li’s final opponent this time, Cibulkova, stood 5 feet 3 inches, which would have tied her with two others for the title of shortest women’s Grand Slam champion. Naturally, her diminutive stature led to the usual nicknames. Some called Cibulkova the Energizer bunny. Others referred to her as “pocket rocket.”
李娜本次决赛的对手齐布尔科娃身高5英尺3英寸（约合1.6米），这个身高本来或许能让她与另外两名选手一道，并列成为最矮女子大满贯得主。自然而然，娇小的身材使她获得了一些通用的昵称。一些人称齐布尔科娃是劲量兔。其他人则称她是“袖珍火箭”。
Cibulkova arrived at their matchup having felled a series of favorites along the way. She defeated the No. 16 (Carla Suárez Navarro), No. 3 (Sharapova), No. 11 (Simona Halep) and No. 5 (Agnieszka Radwanska) seeds, in that order, to reach the final. Li, meanwhile, did not so much as take on a seeded player higher than 22nd, and in the third round, against Lucie Safarova, Li’s passive play not only angered Rodriguez but also left her facing a match point.
在决赛之前，齐布尔科娃已经一路击败不少夺冠热门。她先后打败16号种子选手卡拉·苏亚雷斯·纳瓦罗(Carla Suárez Navarro)、3号种子莎拉波娃、11号种子西莫娜·哈勒普(Simona Halep)，以及5号种子阿格涅什卡·拉德万斯卡(Agnieszka Radwanska)，杀进决赛。而相比之下，李娜在决赛前则没有对阵过排在22名之前的种子，在第三轮面对露西·萨法洛娃(Lucie Safarova)的比赛中，李娜的消极打法不仅让罗德里格斯很生气，还让自己被萨法洛娃逼到赛点。
“I should send an email to Safarova,” Li said in her news conference.
“我应该给萨法洛娃写封邮件，”李娜在新闻发布会上说。
On Saturday, that match point seemed as if it happened a few years ago, as Cibulkova ran into the one seed she could not bully from the baseline. She tried. She attacked Li’s forehand at every opportunity. She made Li work.
周六，齐布尔科娃遇上了一个她无法从底线进攻的对手，而人们似乎早已记不起李娜曾被萨法洛娃逼到赛点了。齐布尔科娃还是试着底线出击，她抓住每一个机会打向李娜的正手。李娜不得不在场上积极跑动。
Li struggled in the first set, first with her first serve, then with her forehand. A 3-1 lead turned into a 4-3 deficit, and when Cibulkova fought off a set point down, 6-5, it seemed fair to wonder whether Li would then collapse. Instead, she managed to win the tiebreaker, despite 25 first-set errors and the fact that only half of her first serves landed in.
在首盘比赛中，李娜打得有些吃力，一发球和后来的正手击球都表现不好。李娜以开始的3–1领先变成4–3落后，后来李娜破发6–5领先，但这一发球制胜局，被齐布尔科娃破发，当时认为李娜可能就此崩溃恐怕也合乎情理。然而，李娜赢下抢七，尽管曾在首盘出现25次失误，并且她的一发球只有一半有效。
“I didn’t miss all the forehands,” she said, emphasis on “all.”
“我并没丢掉所有正手球，”李娜说，她特意强调了“所有”。
The second set took only slightly longer than a trip to the concession stand. Li found her rhythm, and as she landed shots with greater regularity, she took more chances. As she took more chances, she seized control.
第二盘比赛则十分迅速，只比去趟小卖部花的时间稍微长点。李娜找准了节奏，她更频繁地把球打在场内，行动也更大胆，并随之掌握了主动权。
“She was more relaxed, and she was going for her shots,” Cibulkova said. “She was just really, really playing well.”
“她更放松，出击也迅速利落，”齐布尔科娃说。“她真的、真的打得很好。”
Earlier in the week, Cibulkova playfully chided reporters for always asking when she will break into the top 10. Perhaps her run here will be something of a breakthrough.
本周早些时候，齐布尔科娃有些开玩笑地责备记者，为什么总是问她什么时候才能打进前十。也许她本次参赛将成为一次突破。
For all the talk this Open of Roger Federer’s switch to a larger racket frame, Cibulkova also arrived here with a new stick. Hunter Hines, the director of marketing and product development at Dunlop, said Cibulkova tested her new racket in December and decided to make the switch.
这次网球公开赛，人们都在讨论罗杰·费德勒(Roger Federer)换了一个更大的网球拍，其实齐布尔科娃也带了新球拍来参赛。Dunlop的市场营销和产品开发总监亨特·海因斯(Hunter Hines)说，齐布尔科娃去年12月试用了新球拍，并决定更换拍。
The new frame, slightly heavier and slightly longer, and with about a 14 percent rounder racket head, played into Cibulkova’s strengths. It gave her more power and spin.
新球拍稍重、稍长，拍头弧度增加了14%，有利于齐布尔科娃发挥其优势，使她更有力量，更利于旋转。
“I feel that way, yes,” Cibulkova said when asked if she could win future Grand Slam tournaments. “I feel like my game is there to challenge the biggest names, to beat them.”
“我觉得可以，是的，”在被问到是否能在以后的大满贯赛事中获胜时，齐布尔科娃回答道。“我觉得我会挑战那些最有名的选手，去打败他们。”
Now, Li is a two-time Grand Slam winner, with this trophy and her triumph at the French Open in 2011. This will only bolster her value as a brand in the world’s most populated country, her status as an icon, her résumé for potential Hall of Fame consideration.
加上此次澳网夺冠，李娜已赢得两次大满贯，上次是在2011年的法国网球公开赛(French Open)。这会进一步提升李娜在世界上人口最多的国家的品牌价值和偶像地位，也提升了她跻身名人堂的可能性。
For now, she planned to return to China and see her family and celebrate the new year. She planned to train there, too, of course.
现在，李娜计划回到中国，回家过年。当然，她也打算回中国训练。
Someone asked what the Chinese characters on her shirt meant. The answer came back, and there was no punch line, only truth. It read: My heart has no limits.
有人问李娜她上衣上的汉字是什么意思。不是什么调侃，而是一句实话：“心敢比天高”。