HONG KONG – In his meeting Wednesday night with Secretary of State John Kerry, Li Keqiang, China’s prime minister, raised the issue of Congress’s failure to extend the debt limit, underscoring Chinese concerns about the trillion dollars of U.S. government debt Beijing holds.
香港——周三晚间，同美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)会晤时，中国总理李克强提到了美国国会没能提高债务上限的问题，突显了中国对自己持有的逾万亿美元美国国债的担忧。
Mr. Li met with Mr. Kerry on the sidelines of a meeting of Asian leaders in Brunei, holding a 75-minute conversation to discuss issues like Syria, North Korea and tensions in the South China Sea.
在文莱的亚洲国家领导人峰会期间，李克强同克里进行了长达75分钟的会晤，就叙利亚、朝鲜、南海争端等问题展开了讨论。
At one point, Mr. Li told Mr. Kerry of his worries about developments in Washington, saying, “China is highly concerned with the United States’ debt ceiling issue,” according to a report in Chinese by the state-run China News Service.
中国官方新闻媒体中国新闻社的一篇中文报道称，会晤期间，李克强向克里表达了对华盛顿局势的担忧，他说，“中方高度关注美方债务上限问题。”
China is the largest holder of U.S. government securities, carrying $1.28 trillion of its debt, more than the $1.14 trillion Japan holds.
中国是美国国债的最大持有者，持有1.28万亿美元美国国债，超过日本持有的1.14万亿美元。
Republicans in Washington have balked at raising the debt limit from its current $16.7 trillion, raising the prospect of a default and potentially threatening the triple-A rating of U.S. government securities.
华盛顿的共和党人一直不愿意提高目前额度为16.7万亿美元的债务上限，不但导致了违约风险，还可能威胁到美国政府债券的3A评级。
A senior State Department official said that Mr. Kerry assured Mr. Li that the White House was intent on resolving the standoff.
一名高级国务院官员称，克里已向李克强表明，白宫会努力解决这一僵局。
“During the course of a broad conversation about political dynamics in Washington that briefly referenced the debt limit debate, Secretary Kerry made clear that this is a moment in Washington politics and reaffirmed the President’s commitment to resolving the issue,” the official said. “They also agreed that the United States has one of the strongest economies in the world and that they have a shared interest in continuing the close economic working relationship.”
“双方就华盛顿的政治形势进行了广泛讨论，其间简略提到了关于债务上限的争论，克里国务卿明确表示现在是美国政治的重要时刻，并重申了总统解决这个问题的决心，”前述官员称。“两人一致同意美国是世界上最强大的经济体之一，并且都有兴趣延续两国之间密切的经济合作关系。”