LONDON — Li Ka-shing, Asia’s richest man, is in preliminary talks to acquire aircraft being sold by AWAS Aviation Capital, the aircraft leasing company owned by Guy Hands’s private equity firm, Terra Firma Capital Partners.
伦敦——亚洲首富李嘉诚(Li Ka-shing)正在为购买一些飞机开展初步谈判。出售这些飞机的是飞机租赁公司AWAS航空资本(AWAS Aviation Capital)，后者由葛涵思(Guy Hands)的私募股权公司泰丰资本(Terra Firma Capital Partners)拥有。
In a statement on Monday to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Mr. Li’s Hong Kong-listed company, Cheung Kong, said it had submitted a “very preliminary” nonbinding proposal to acquire a portfolio of planes from AWAS.
在周一向香港交易所提交的一份声明中，李嘉诚的香港上市公司长江实业(Cheung Kong)表示，已经为收购AWAS的多架飞机提交了一份“非常初步”且不具约束力的计划书。
“There is no assurance that a definitive agreement will be entered into for the proposed acquisition,” the company said.The proposed sale includes a portfolio of about 100 planes that are less than two years old and valued at an estimated $5 billion, according to a person familiar with the discussions.
“不能确定这项采购计划最终能否达成明确的协议，”该公司表示。一名了解相关讨论的人士透露，该收购计划包括约100架飞机，这些飞机的服役时间均不到两年，总价值约50亿美元（约合309亿元人民币）。
The negotiations come after a strategic review that recommended that ‘the company’s portfolio be split in two between its younger fleet of planes and its older aircraft.
上述谈判开展之前进行的一次战略评估建议，该公司拥有的飞机应当按新旧分为两批。
AWAS, based in Dublin, has a fleet of 300 aircraft that are leased to more than 100 airlines in 50 countries.
总部设在都柏林的AWAS拥有300架飞机，这些飞机租赁给了50个国家的100多家航空公司。
In recent months, Mr. Li’s companies have sold or spun off assets in mainland China and Hong Kong, while making a series of acquisitions in Europe and North America.
最近几个月，李嘉诚名下的多家企业在中国内地和香港出售或剥离了资产，并在欧洲和北美进行了一系列收购交易。
Mr. Li’s companies own a variety of businesses, including power plants, hotels and port operators. His companies also acquired a Canadian operator of airport parking garages this year.
李嘉诚名下的公司业务范围广泛，包括发电厂、酒店，以及港口运营商。今年，他名下的公司还收购了一家加拿大的机场停车库经营企业。
Cheung Kong, through its various subsidiaries, operates in 52 countries and employs about 280,000 people.
凭借着旗下的众多子公司，长江实业的业务覆盖52个国家，有大约28万名员工。
Mr. Li, a native of China who has adopted Hong Kong as his base, is worth an estimated $35 billion, according to Forbes.
李嘉诚生于中国内地，之后到香港居住。《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志称，其个人资产约有350亿美元。
The deal, if concluded, would match two of the more dynamic personalities in finance.
这笔交易如果达成，将把金融界两个颇为活跃的人物联系起来。
Terra Firma is run by Guy Hands, who was known as one of Britain’s shrewdest investors before a disastrous deal to acquire the music company EMI at the top of the market in 2007. Facing a huge amount of debt, EMI was seized by its lenders in 2011.
泰丰资本由葛涵思经营。葛涵思曾被认为是英国最精明的投资者之一，但在2007年他做了一笔灾难性的交易，在行情最好的时候收购了音乐厂牌EMI。2011年，身背巨额债务的EMI被债权人接管。