HONG KONG – Is Hong Kong’s Man of Steel getting a bit rusty?
香港——香港的“钢铁超人”有点生锈了吗？
Locals have pondered the question over the years as they have tracked the ascent and missteps of the city’s – and Asia’s – most successful businessman, the billionaire Li Ka-shing, whom the local news media have nicknamed Superman.
这些年来，香港人在追踪李嘉诚(Li Ka-shing)的崛起以及失误的同时，也在思考着这个问题。亿万富翁李嘉诚是香港，也是亚洲最成功的商人，香港媒体给他取了“超人”的绰号。
On Wednesday, Mr. Li’s Hong Kong Electric Investments priced its initial public offering at the bottom of the marketed range, raising 24.1 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $3.1 billion. The deal had already been downsized from earlier estimates of as much as nearly $6 billion because of a lackluster reception from investors during the preliminary marketing phase.
本周三，李嘉诚的港灯电力投资(Hong Kong Electric Investments)以招股价下限为首次公开募股(IPO)的定价，筹资241亿港元（约合人民币188亿元）。由于在初步营销阶段，投资者反应平平，这笔交易如今的规模较早期估计的60亿美元（约合人民币363亿元）已大为缩水。
In recent months, news media outlets in Hong Kong and mainland China have been asking whether Mr. Li, 85, is selling down his investments in the region in favor of new acquisitions in Europe.
近几个月来，香港和中国大陆的新闻媒体一直在追问：85岁的李嘉诚是否在减持该地区的投资，转而在欧洲收购新的资产。
For his part, Mr. Li, who according to Forbes has a net worth of $32 billion and is the world’s eighth-richest person, has rejected such talk as a “big joke.”
李嘉诚自己否定了这样的说法，说这是“大笑话”。《福布斯》(Forbes)的资料显示，李嘉诚的资产净值为320亿美元，是全球第八大富豪。
In a rare interview in November with a state-owned Chinese news media outlet, Mr. Li defended himself against his critics. “I have done business internationally for more than 30 years,” he told reporters from the Nanfang Media group. “It is the first time I’ve heard comments about ‘pulling out assets’ from Hong Kong.”
在去年11月，李嘉诚罕见地接受了中国官方新闻媒体的采访，并为自己遭到的批评做了辩护。他告诉南方报业集团的记者：“我经营国际性业务超过30年，今次是第一次听到来自香港所谓的‘撤资’评论。”
“Sell high and buy low is normal business behavior,” he added.
“高卖低买本来就是正常的商业行为，”他说。
Indeed, Mr. Li has shown his savvy as an asset trader over a long career. Born to a poor family in the southeastern Chinese city of Chaozhou, Mr. Li was one of thousands of refugees who fled to Hong Kong after World War II.
确实，李嘉诚在他漫长的职业生涯中显示出了在资产交易方面的卓越见识。他出生于中国东南部潮州的一户贫穷家庭，是二战后逃往香港的数千难民之一。
A school dropout at the age of 12, he got a job in a plastics factory and eventually opened his own plant making plastic flowers. He began investing heavily in real estate in Hong Kong during the late 1960s, when prices bottomed out as Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution threatened to spill over into the colony.
12岁辍学的李嘉诚在一家塑料厂找到了工作，后来他自己开厂制作塑料花。60年代后期，他开始在香港楼市投入大笔资金，当时由于毛泽东发起的文化大革命有可能蔓延到香港，当地的楼价跌至低谷。
Mr. Li leveraged his real estate wealth in 1979 to acquire Hutchison Whampoa, one of Hong Kong’s oldest British trading companies. He has struck a succession of blockbuster deals in the decades since, including the sale of his British mobile phone business for $15 billion in 1999 and an Indian wireless unit to Vodafone in 2007 for $11 billion.
1979年，李嘉诚利用他在楼市赚取的财富收购了香港成立最早的英国贸易公司之一——和记黄埔(Hutchison Whampoa)。在此后的几十年中，他成功完成了一系列重磅交易，比如1999年以150亿美元的价格出售他在英国的移动电话业务，2007年以110亿美元的价格把一家印度无线通讯公司出售给沃达丰(Vodafone)。
But with his latest deal – the third-biggest I.P.O. by a Hong Kong company on record, according to Dealogic – is Mr. Li selling low instead?
但从他最近的这次交易来看，李嘉诚是在贱卖资产吗？数据公司Dealogic的资料显示，这是有史以来香港公司中规模第三大的IPO。
Analysts said the size and pricing of the Hong Kong Electric deal, which is being packaged as a trust, had most likely been affected by investor concerns that global interest rates are poised to rise as the United States Federal Reserve begins to wind down its bond-buying program, the so-called tapering of quantitative easing.
分析师称，港灯电力以信托形式上市，其规模和定价很可能受到了投资者担忧的影响。投资者们担心，随着美联储(United States Federal Reserve)开始逐步减少其债券购买规模，即所谓的减少“量化宽松”，全球利率有望上涨。
Hong Kong Electric, one of the city’s two power suppliers, is being spun off from Mr. Li’s Power Assets Holdings. Unlike a typical stock offering, investors in a trust value such assets based on the prospect of steady dividend incomes and the attractiveness of the yields they represent.
港灯电力是香港两家电力供应商之一，从李嘉诚的电能实业有限公司(Power Assets Holdings)分拆出来。与典型的股票发行不同，信托投资者是根据获得稳定股息和高收益的前景，来评估这种资产的。
By pricing its offering at 5.45 dollars per unit, compared with a marketed range of 5.45 dollars to 6.30 dollars, Hong Kong Electric’s trust units represent an annualized yield of 7.2 percent for 2014, according to the company’s stock exchange filings.
港灯电力公开发售的单价定为5.45港元，招股价的区间是5.45到6.30港元。该公司在证券交易所的备案文件显示，这相当于2014年的年化收益率为7.2%。
But factoring in Hong Kong’s consumer price inflation of 4.3 percent in December, plus the expectation of rising interest rates because of the Fed’s actions, the returns on yield-focused investments like Hong Kong Electric begin to look less enticing.
但考虑到去年12月香港消费者价格指数为4.3%，加之美联储行动导致人们预期利率会上涨，像港灯电力这样以收益率为侧重点的投资，其回报看起来就不那么诱人了。
Instead, investors have been migrating to traditional equities, pushing benchmark share indexes like the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index to historic highs in recent weeks.
因此，投资者们纷纷转向传统证券，最近几周，这种趋势将标准普尔500指数等基准股票指数推升到了历史高位。
At the same time, analysts said, Mr. Li’s decision to spin off Hong Kong Electric was less a question of selling high or low, and more of selling while he could.
与此同时，分析师们也指出，李嘉诚决定分拆港灯电力和卖高还是卖低关系不大，重要的是趁着还能售出这些资产，尽快脱手。
Hong Kong’s electricity duopoly is regulated under an agreement with the local government that grants juicy 10 percent returns on net assets to both Hong Kong Electric, which supplies electricity to Hong Kong and Lamma islands, and CLP Holdings, which supplies the rest of the territory.
为了监管处于两强垄断的电力企业港灯电力和中电控股(CLP Holdings)，香港政府与二者签订了一项协议，保证它们能获得10%的丰厚净资产回报。港灯为香港岛和南丫岛供电，中电则为香港其他地区供电。
The then-colonial government struck these “scheme of control” agreements in the 1960s and ’70s – when large parts of Hong Kong were still rural and people lived in ramshackle housing that lacked basic infrastructure – as a way to encourage power companies to expand their networks and stabilize the electricity supply to spur the growth of manufacturing.
上世纪60和70年代，当时香港的殖民地政府签订了管制计划(scheme of control)协议，以此来鼓励电力公司扩展电网，保障供电稳定，从而促进制造业的发展。当时香港大部分地区仍然是农村，人们住在摇摇欲坠的房屋里，缺乏最起码的基础设施。
But Hong Kong today is a highly developed and modern city. The factories have long since moved across the border to mainland China, and electricity consumption is growing by rates in the low single digits. As a result, the high returns that are all but guaranteed to the two power companies have come under criticism locally as an unnecessary tax on the populace that lines the pockets of billionaires. (CLP is controlled by the family of Michael Kadoorie, another Hong Kong billionaire.)
但如今香港已经成了高度发达的现代化城市，工厂早已越过边境搬到了中国内地，香港的用电量以个位数的低速度增长。因此，保障两家电力公司获得高回报的做法在香港受到了诟病，市民称这相当于让公众承担了不必要的税负，结果却流向了亿万富翁的腰包。（中电控股由另一位香港亿万富翁米高·嘉道理[Michael Kadoorie]的家族控制。）
In response, the Hong Kong government has been lowering the returns the electricity companies are permitted to make. The current agreement, which runs until 2018, allows for a 10 percent annual return on net fixed assets. But the government is expected to decide within the next two years whether it will seek to lower those returns or extend the deal until 2023.
作为回应，香港政府降低了允许电力公司取得的回报率标准。目前的协议将持续到2018年，规定的年回报率是固定资产净值的10%。但政府将在未来两年内决定是要进一步降低回报率，还是把协议延长到2023年。
Analysts said Mr. Li’s timing of the sale may not be ideal, given investor concerns over the Fed’s tapering plans. But by selling down its stake in Hong Kong Electric, to 49.9 percent from 100 percent, Mr. Li’s Power Assets is reducing its exposure to regulatory risk in Hong Kong while earning cash to add to its footprint in overseas markets, including Britain and Australia.
分析师表示，鉴于投资者对美联储缩减购债规模的计划心存担忧，李嘉诚这次出售资产的时机可能不是很理想。但是通过出售，李嘉诚的电能实业在港灯电力的股份从100%减持到了49.9%，不仅减少了其在香港面临的监管风险，而且可以用获得的现金扩大其在英国和澳大利亚等海外市场的投资规模。
“This is in many ways the last possible moment you can dispose of Hong Kong assets that are regulated under the scheme of control with the view that changes to the scheme are still off in the never never,” said Michael W. Parker, a senior analyst in Hong Kong for Sanford C. Bernstein. “The perfect way to have played this would have been to have sold the asset before the market started to price in the tapering of Q.E.,” referring to quantitative easing.
“从很多方面来看，这是脱手那些由‘管制计划协议’监管的香港资产的最后机会，现在看来距离协议的变更还很遥远，”桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)驻香港高级分析师迈克尔·W·帕克(Michael W. Parker)说。“完美的做法是，在市场对缩减量化宽松规模做出反应之前，就开始出售这些资产。”
Units in Hong Kong Electric are scheduled to begin trading in Hong Kong on Jan. 29. HSBC and Goldman Sachs are the lead underwriters on the I.P.O.
港灯电力计划1月29日在香港交易，汇丰(HSBC)和高盛(Goldman Sachs)是此次IPO的主承销商。
Mr. Li’s next deal could be even bigger. After failing last year to secure a satisfactory price in an attempted auction of ParknShop, his chain of supermarkets in Hong Kong and mainland China, Mr. Li’s Hutchison Whampoa has said it is considering a spinoff of the A.S. Watson Group.
李嘉诚的下一笔交易可能规模更大。和记黄埔去年试图出售他在香港和中国内地的连锁超市百佳(ParknShop)，但未能收到满意的竞购价格。和记黄埔曾表示正在考虑分拆屈臣氏集团(A.S. Watson Group)。
A.S. Watson includes the supermarket chain but adds a global network of more than 11,000 health and beauty retail locations. Analysts have estimated such a deal could value the company at more than $20 billion, depending on the structure and timing of the sale.
百佳超市属于屈臣氏，屈臣氏还在全球范围内拥有超过1.1万间保健及美容产品零售店铺。分析师估计，在这样一宗交易中，该公司可能会获得超过200亿美元的估值，具体取决于交易结构和出售的时机。