The Li Na experience continued Thursday afternoon in what was billed as a news conference but came across more like a one-woman show. Li alternated between funny, introspective, philosophical and bemused.
李娜传统在周四下午继续发扬光大。在一次被宣传为新闻发布、但给人的印象更像是独台戏的活动中，李娜时而幽默风趣，时而自我反省，时而充满哲理，时而略显糊涂。
She told jokes, like one quip about her hometown in China: “Not so many people. Just like 10 million.” She talked honestly about luck and fame. She said she wanted to be a housewife in retirement. And she listed one of her goals in this Australian Open: to not fall down.
她开玩笑，比如提到自己在中国的老家时，她俏皮地说：“这里人不多，人口也就1000多万。”她坦言运气与名声。她说退役后想当个家庭主妇。她还列举了自己在本次澳网公开赛上的一个目标：不摔倒。
A similar Li Na experience had played out earlier Thursday, on court in the semifinals, and it unfolded with similar levels of ease (lots) and tension (little). Li needed all of 86 minutes to dismiss Eugenie Bouchard, 6-2, 6-4, and secure her spot in Saturday’s final. She smacked 35 winners. She won 82 percent of Bouchard’s second serves.
类似的李娜传统在周四早些时候的半决赛赛场上也有展示，她在赛场上表现出同样的从容（很多）和紧张（很少）。李娜只用了86分钟就战胜了尤金·布莎尔(Eugenie Bouchard)，比分分别是6-2、6-4，确保了自己进入周六决赛的地位。她轰出了35记制胜分，赢了布莎尔二发球中的82%。
For a tournament marked by upsets, by dramatic swings in fortune and weather, the women’s semifinals landed Thursday with a thud. Gone were the expected contenders, such as Serena Williams, Victoria Azarenka and Maria Sharapova. Gone, too, was the excitement.
对这场频频爆冷、命运和天气都急剧波动的锦标赛来说，周四的女子半决赛可谓不够刺激。那些人们期待的竞争者已经败下，比如塞雷娜·威廉姆斯(Serena Williams)、维多利亚·阿扎伦卡(Victoria Azarenka)、玛丽亚·莎拉波娃(Maria Sharapova)。随之退场的还有兴奋。
In their place stood a global line-up of players from China (Li), Canada (Bouchard), Slovakia (Dominika Cibulkova) and Poland (Agnieszka Radwanska). Tennis insiders billed these matchups as potentially more intriguing, the thought being that what they lacked in star power they would make up for in style contrasts, in young (Bouchard) versus older (Li) and in power (Cibulkova) against panache (Radwanska).
取代她们的是一个全球选手阵容：中国的李娜、加拿大的布莎尔、斯洛伐克的多米妮卡·齐布科娃(Dominika Cibulkova)，以及波兰的阿格尼西卡·拉德万斯卡(Agnieszka Radwanska)。网球业内人士宣称这一阵容可能更有意思，因为虽然她们缺少明星魅力，但其风格对比也许能弥补这个不足，比如年轻的布莎尔对年纪较大的李娜，体力充沛的齐布科娃对气质潇洒的拉德万斯卡。
So much for that sentiment. Just as Li overpowered Bouchard, Cibulkova deconstructed Radwanska, the match over, 6-1, 6-2, before the assembled crowd could settle in. Radwanska had played her quarterfinal the day before (as had Cibulkova) but had also endured three matches that lasted more than two hours in this tournament.
这种指望没能持续多久。正如李娜以压倒优势击败了布莎尔，齐布科娃在观众还没坐稳之前就瓦解了拉德万斯卡，比分为6-1、6-2。拉德万斯卡在一天前曾打过四分之一决赛（齐布科娃也同样），但她在这次公开赛中经历过三场耗时两个小时以上的比赛。
“I feel like in slow motion today,” Radwanska said.
拉德万斯卡说，“我感觉今天的动作是在慢镜头中。”
By the time the women’s semifinals started Thursday, the fourth seed, Li, had become the favorite. That was not necessarily a good thing at this Australian Open, given the fates of the other top players, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray included.
到女子半决赛周四开赛之际，四号种子选手李娜已是呼声最高的人。但鉴于其他顶级选手的命运，比如诺瓦克·德约科维奇(Novak Djokovic)和安迪·穆雷(Andy Murray)，这种呼声在本届澳洲网球公开赛上不一定是件好事。
On one hand, Li was the only Grand Slam champion left in the women’s bracket. She won the French Open in 2011. On the other, she had reached the final here in 2011 and 2013, won the first set in each of those matches and faltered twice, against Kim Clijsters and Azarenka. In those instances, she shed more than a few tears.
一方面，李娜是剩下的女选手中唯一的大满贯冠军。她曾在2011年法国网球公开赛上夺冠。另一方面，她曾在2011年和2013年两次杀进澳网决赛，但均在第一盘获胜后，失去后两盘，分别败给了金姆·克里斯特尔斯(Kim Clijsters)和阿扎伦卡。那两次，她都曾大哭过。
In Li’s way this time stood Bouchard, a tournament darling, a 19-year-old Canadian with her own Australian cheering section (Genie’s Army) and a Twitter post on Thursday from Justin Bieber that read simply, “good luck :).” Not only was Bouchard the WTA newcomer of the year in 2013, but she also played here not like an awe-struck teenager but like the future of women’s tennis.
半决赛中，李娜面对的是澳网公开赛宠儿、19岁的加拿大选手布莎尔，观众席上有她的澳大利亚啦啦队（尤金的队伍[Genie’s Army]），周四贾斯丁·比伯(Justin Bieber)还用Twitter发了两个字的鼓励：“好运:)。”布莎尔不但是WTA2013年的年度最佳新秀，而且，她在此地参赛的表现不像是一位怯场的少女，更像是代表着女子网球未来的人。
Li squashed any Bouchard aspirations early. She won 20 of the first 23 points, won each of the first five games and won enough when Bouchard upped her aggression in the second set to end it there. Even Biebs would have been impressed.
李娜一出手就打消了布莎尔的所有希望。李娜得了前23分中的20分，赢了头五局中的每一局，这让她大幅领先，即使布莎尔在第二盘比赛中加强了进攻，也未能挽回比赛进行了两盘就以她的失败而告终的结果。就连比伯也许会对这种表现留下印象。
It was fair, afterward, to wonder if all the attention her run to the semifinal garnered had too great an impact on Bouchard. Li had been here, this close to a final, in a contest of this magnitude before. Bouchard had not.
赛后的猜测并非不公：是不是人们对布莎尔一路杀入半决赛的关注给她来带来了太大的冲击？李娜曾处在这个位置上：在如此规格的比赛中离决赛那么近。而布莎尔却没有这种经历。
Afterward, Bouchard carried another stuffed animal given by her army, an emu this time named Sheila. She agreed in part that nerves had factored into her defeat. But so, of course, did Li.
赛后，布莎尔获得了她的啦啦队送给她的又一个毛绒动物，这次是一只叫做希拉(Sheila)的鸸鹋。她部分同意她的失败中有紧张的因素。但是，当然也有李娜的因素。
On match point, Bouchard clipped the net with one shot that bounced over and landed on the sideline. “This one,” Li said she thought as she ran toward the ball, is the “more important one.” She reached it and rocketed a backhand cross-court winner for game, set, match.
在赛末点，布莎尔将球刚好打过球网，球反弹起来后落向边线。李娜说她冲过去接这个球时，脑子里想着，“这个球更重要。”她接到了这个球，并打出了一个反手斜线制胜分，赢得了这局、这盘、这场比赛。
“I feel like she didn’t give me much breathing space, much room to do what I wanted to do,” Bouchard said. “She played too good almost.”
布莎尔说，“我觉得她没有给我多少喘息的机会，没有给我能随心所欲发挥的空间。她打得几乎过于漂亮了。”
In her on-court interview, Li waved at Genie’s Army, the group of young Australians who had adopted Bouchard over these last two weeks. “Sorry about that,” Li said.
李娜在现场接受采访时，向“尤金的队伍”挥了挥手，这是在过去两周中支持布莎尔的一群澳大利亚年轻人。李娜对他们说，“对不起了。”
Cibulkova needed even less time to become the first woman from Slovakia to advance to a Grand Slam final. Her Open was filled with similar matches; with short, dominant sets; with only one three-set victory, against Sharapova in the fourth round. In her five previous Grand Slam tournaments, Cibulkova had won six matches, a total she equaled Thursday in this tournament alone.
齐布科娃用了更少的时间就成为进入大满贯决赛的第一个来自斯洛伐克的女选手。她在此次公开赛上的表现大都如此：盘盘都很短，都是高分获胜；唯一的一次三盘后获胜，是第四轮的与莎拉波娃的比赛。齐布科娃在她之前的5次大满贯比赛中一共赢了6场，周四，她在此次公开赛中已赢得了同样的场数。
Li will be favored in the final, but she has not been infallible here. She nearly tripped in the third round, down match point to Lucie Safarova. Li saved that point and played calmer the rest of the way. In her next two matches, she dropped a total of six games.
李娜将是决赛中获胜呼声最高的选手，但她在此次澳网赛上并非从无过失。她在第三轮比赛中几乎失利，让露西·莎伐洛娃(Lucie Safarova)拿下赛点。但她挽回了那点，并在后来的比赛中一直打得更冷静。在接下来的两场比赛中，她总共只输了六局。
In the interview room afterward, Li said (again) she considered retirement at Wimbledon last year, until her coach, Carlos Rodriguez, talked her out of it. She responded to a question about whether it gave her satisfaction to be considered perhaps the most popular and acclaimed Asian tennis player of all time with an, “Of course. Everybody wants to be famous.”
赛后在采访室接受采访时，李娜（再次）说，去年在温布尔登比赛前自己考虑过退役，但她的教练卡洛斯‧罗德里格斯(Carlos Rodriguez)说服她改变了想法。有人问，被人们看作或许是历史上最受欢迎、最成功的亚洲网球选手是否让她满足，她答道，“当然了。每个人都想出名啊。”
She detailed visualization techniques and boot camps and her decision to leave China’s national program early in her career. She sat in a familiar position, in the Australian Open women’s final on Saturday, and in an unfamiliar one, as the favorite.
她还详细地谈了如何把问题直观化和训练营的经历等，以及她在职业生涯早期离开中国国家队的决定。她既处在一个熟悉的位置上，也就是将在周六参加澳洲女子网球公开赛的决赛，但也处在一个陌生的位置上，那就是她这次的获胜呼声最高。
In last year’s final, she fell down twice. That seemed to stick with her, the embarrassment of the moment, and she mentioned those incidents repeatedly all week.
在去年的决赛中她两次摔倒。当时的尴尬似乎一直跟随着她，一周来她多次提到那些失误。
“Life always have a challenge,” she concluded. “You just have to face it.”
她用这句话结束了采访：“生活总是充满挑战。你需要直面它。”