HONG KONG — The Hong Kong billionaire Richard Li is raising his bet on telecommunications, agreeing on Friday to pay $2.4 billion to acquire one of Hong Kong’s biggest mobile phone networks.
香港——香港亿万富翁李泽楷加大了对通讯行业的投资力度。周五，他同意斥资24亿美元（约合188亿元人民币）收购香港最大的移动电话网络。
Mr. Li’s company HKT said that it would acquire 76.4 percent of CSL New World Mobility from Telstra, the Australian telecommunications company, and the remaining 23.6 percent stake from New World Development, a conglomerate controlled by the family of the Hong Kong billionaire Cheng Yu-tung.
李泽楷的公司香港电讯(HKT)称，它将收购澳大利亚通讯公司Telstra所持有的CSLNW(CSL New World Mobility)76.4%的股份，以及由新世界发展(New World Development)持有的剩余23.6%CSLNW股份。新世界发展是一个企业集团，由香港富豪郑裕彤的家族控制。
For Mr. Li, the son of Asia’s richest man, Li Ka-shing, the deal will deepen his stakes in telecommunications and make him one of the biggest players in Hong Kong’s small but lucrative mobile sector.
李泽楷是亚洲首富李嘉诚之子，这项交易将扩大他对通讯行业的参与程度，使他成为香港规模虽小却利润丰厚的移动市场的最大参与者。
Mr. Li’s HKT is currently the smallest of the city’s five mobile carriers.  But when combined with CSL, it estimates it will have a 31 percent market share in Hong Kong. At the same time, Mr. Li’s PCCW Ltd. is one of the city’s biggest providers of fixed-line telephone and broadband Internet services.
李泽楷的香港电讯目前是香港五家移动运营商中规模最小的一个。但是，与CSL合并之后，它估计可以占据香港市场份额的31%。同时，李泽楷的电讯盈科(PCCW Ltd.)还是香港最大的固定电话和宽带互联网服务提供商之一。
Buying CSL is also a return to familiar territory for Mr. Li.
对于李泽楷来说，购买CSL等于向自己熟悉领域的一次回归。
The company was set up in the early 1980’s as the city’s first mobile carrier. Mr. Li’s PCCW acquired the mobile business when it bought Cable & Wireless HKT, the city’s former monopoly provider of fixed-line telephone services, in 2000. The next year, PCCW sold a 60 percent stake in CSL to Telstra for about $1.7 billion.
CSL成立于20世纪80年代早期，是香港第一家移动运营商。2000年，李泽楷的电讯盈科收购了香港电讯公司(Cable & Wireless HKT)，由此获得CSL的所有权。香港电讯公司曾是香港固定电话服务的独家提供商。次年，电讯盈科以约17亿美元的价格将60%的CSL股份卖给了Telstra。
“We are pleased to be able to make a proposal to bring CSLNW back into the HKT family,” Alex Arena, group managing director of HKT, said Friday in a statement. “This transaction will enable us to grow HKT and also enable us to provide better service to customers of both HKT and CSLNW.”
“我们很高兴能够提议让CSLNW回归香港电讯家族，”香港电讯集团董事总经理艾维朗(Alex Arena)周五发表声明称。“这一交易将会使我们有能力促进香港电讯的发展，也使我们有能力为香港电讯和CSLNW的客户提供更好的服务。”
For Telstra, the sale is the second time in a week that the Australian company has cashed in on investments in greater China. Last week, it earned proceeds of about $133 million when Autohome, Chinese auto website, completed an initial public offering in New York.
对于澳大利亚公司Telstra来说，这是公司一周内第二次从大中华区的投资中获益。上周，中国汽车网站“汽车之家”在纽约完成了首次公开募股，该公司从中获得了大约1.33亿美元的收益。
“We have seen significant growth in different parts of our business in Asia, including Autohome and Telstra Global, and our plans to grow our business in this region remain firmly in place,” Telstra chief executive David Thodey said Friday in a statement.
Telstra首席执行官戴维·索迪(David Thodey)周五发表声明称，“我们看到公司在亚洲的各种业务有了大幅增长，包括‘汽车之家’和Telstra Global，我们依然会坚定地执行发展该地区业务的计划。”
“CSL has been a strongly performing business,” Mr. Thodey said. “However, there are a number of dynamics in the Hong Kong mobiles market that means this is the right opportunity for Telstra to maximize our return on this successful asset.”
“CSL一直是一个表现强劲的公司，”索迪说。“不过，香港移动市场的诸多情况表明，现在正是Telstra从这项成功资产中获得最大收益的合适机会。”
The deal is subject to regulatory approval in Hong Kong, which has a dedicated competition authority for the communications industry. As part of the transaction, HKT has agreed to maintain services to CSL’s existing re-sellers, and to continue existing network sharing agreements.
该交易尚需获得香港监管部门的批准，香港有为通讯行业专设的竞争管理机构。作为交易条件之一，香港电讯同意继续为CSL的现有中间商提供服务，并延续现有的网络共享协议。