Winter does not retreat. Here’s what I want: a table by a fogged-up window, with fat won tons, drizzled with hot pepper oil and stinking of garlic and ginger, bobbing in a huge bowl of steamy broth. Where? Why, at home — where else?
冬天不肯离去。我想要的是：坐在雾蒙蒙的窗边的餐桌边，面前是一碗香喷喷的馄饨，撒上辣椒油，闻着大蒜和姜的香味，倒入一大碗热腾腾的肉汤。在哪里？当然是在家里——不然还能在哪里？
It’s not hard to have won tons or dumplings at home. You buy a bag of 60 frozen ones for a few bucks and boil them at home. I wouldn’t really call it cheating; you could do much worse. They are relatively healthy, convenient, cheap and a better choice than many other frozen options.
在家吃馄饨或饺子并不难。花上几美元，你就能买一袋60个的冻馄饨或饺子，然后在家里煮。我不会说你是作弊，因为这不是最糟的。与其他很多速冻食品相比，它们相对健康、便捷、便宜，是个更好的选择。
But what if you could get all that and have it freshly made (you control the ingredients and the seasonings) and have the taste be about a thousand times better?
但是如果你不仅能得到上述这些好处，而且能吃上现做的（你能控制原料和作料），味道还比速冻的好上1000倍，你愿不愿尝试呢？
You can. Making won tons is so easy, it almost feels like cheating. You buy the won ton skins in a package at the store. They are rolled to the perfect thickness, cut to the perfect size and have the perfect moisture content. Even the most fanatical cook will agree that store-bought won ton skins and phyllo dough are better.
你能做到。做馄饨特别容易，几乎像是作弊。你从商店买一包馄饨皮。它们的厚薄、大小和湿度都正好。连最狂热的厨师也会同意商店买的馄饨皮和薄面皮更好。
Your won ton filling, whatever it is, will usually be a mixture of minced meat: chicken, duck, pork, shrimp or a combination. I love the combined flavors of not-too-lean, minced pork and shrimp, and the texture, too. Ginger, garlic, sesame oil and serrano chiles are happy additions, along with a spoonful of spicy fermented bean paste.
不管你的馄饨馅是什么，它通常是碎肉的混合物：鸡肉、鸭肉、猪肉、虾肉或者混合肉馅。我特别喜欢不是太瘦的碎猪肉和虾肉的混合味道和质地。姜、蒜、芝麻油和墨西哥辣椒是很好的作料，再加上一勺辣豆瓣酱。
If you can get Chinese garlic chives, by all means use them. They add a green freshness to the won ton filling that is more vegetal than garlicky, and quite delicious. If not, carry on with scallions. Like meatballs, idiosyncratic variations of fillings are part of the experience. Taste your filling in advance, though, to ensure that it is well seasoned. Fry a little bit, check the seasoning and correct it. Because it will be wrapped in dough, the filling should be bright.
如果你有韭菜，那一定要用上它。它会给馄饨馅增添一点绿色的清新，它更像蔬菜，蒜味不浓，特别美味。如果没有的话，就加点大葱。像肉丸一样，馅料的特殊组合是体验的一部分。不过你要先尝一下馅料，确保它调味得当。稍微煎一下，尝尝味道，再做些调整。因为它要包到面皮里，所以馅料必须美味。
Won tons can be served plain or in broth. I prefer the broth version, but here is where I draw the line: don’t cheat on the broth. You’ll never get a good one from a can or a cube. If you don’t have worthwhile broth, stir-fry some spinach with garlic and a splash of water, then use the greens and their juices to moisten the dish.
馄饨可以单独上桌，也可以放在肉汤里上桌。我更喜欢放在肉汤里，但是对此我有一个底线：不能在肉汤上作弊。用罐装的浓汤或浓汤块永远做不出好汤。如果你没时间做浓汤，那就用大蒜炒菠菜，然后加点水，用绿色蔬菜和它们的汁液让这道菜变得湿润。
Red pepper oil, in my opinion, should always be on hand.
在我看来，红辣椒油应该一直放在手边。
Recipe: Pork and Shrimp Won Tons
食谱：猪肉虾肉馄饨
TOTAL TIME
总计用时：
1 hour, plus at least 30 minutes chilling
1小时，另加至少30分钟冷却时间
INGREDIENTS
配料：
1/2 pound ground pork, not too lean
1/2磅碎猪肉，不要太瘦
1/2 pound fresh shrimp, peeled, deveined and roughly chopped in 1/4-inch pieces
1/2磅鲜虾，去皮，去肠，大致切成1/4英寸长的小段
Salt and pepper
盐和胡椒
1 tablespoon sweet rice wine, such as Shaoxing rice wine (or use sherry)
1汤匙甜米酒，比如绍兴米酒（或者用雪利酒）
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1汤匙酱油
1 tablespoon sugar
1汤匙糖
1 tablespoon finely grated ginger
1汤匙切得很碎的姜末
2 cloves garlic, minced
2瓣蒜，切碎
1 teaspoon spicy Chinese bean paste, also called chili bean sauce (or use chile paste)
1茶匙中国辣豆瓣酱（或者用辣酱）
2 serrano chiles, finely chopped
2个墨西哥辣椒，切碎
1 1/2 cups chopped Chinese garlic chives (or use 3/4 cup chopped scallions, green and white parts)
1.5杯切碎的韭菜（或者用3/4杯切碎的大葱，绿的和白的各要一半）
36 wonton skins, about 3 by 3 inches, available at Asian markets and many grocery stores
36张馄饨皮，约3英寸见方，在亚洲超市和很多杂货店都能买到
1 small egg, beaten
1个小鸡蛋，搅拌好
Cornstarch for dusting
玉米淀粉
8 ounces baby spinach leaves
8盎司嫩菠菜叶
1/2 cup chopped cilantro
1/2杯切碎的香菜
8 cups good chicken broth, hot, salted to taste
8杯上好的鸡汤，热的，加盐调味
Red pepper oil (optional), see note
红辣椒油（可选），见注释
PREPARATION
制作方法：
Put pork and shrimp in a chilled mixing bowl. Season with salt and pepper and mix briefly with chopsticks, wet hands or wooden spoons. Add rice wine, soy sauce, sugar, ginger, garlic, bean paste, serrano chiles and garlic chives. Mix well to incorporate. Pan-fry a small flat patty in a small amount of oil to check seasoning; taste and adjust. Transfer mixture to a small container, cover and chill at least 30 minutes, or longer if you have time, up to 24 hours.
1. 把猪肉和虾肉放入一个冷冻过的搅拌碗里。加入盐和胡椒，用筷子、湿手或木勺稍微拌一下。加入米酒、酱油、糖、姜末、蒜末、豆瓣酱、墨西哥辣椒和韭菜。好好搅拌到一起。用一点油煎一小块肉饼，尝尝味道，再稍微调一下味。把馅料挪到一个小容器里，盖上盖子，至少冷却30分钟，有时间的话，可以冷却更长时间，最多不超过24小时。
To prepare wontons, remove a few wonton skins from package and lay them on dry work surface. Put 1 teaspoon filling in the center of each square skin. Paint edges of square lightly with egg. Gently fold one side over the other, pinching edges together. You should a have a folded rectangle. Now pull the lower corners in toward each other and pinch together to make the traditional curved wonton shape. Place wontons 1 inch apart on a baking sheet or platter. Dust lightly with cornstarch and refrigerate, uncovered, until ready to cook.
2. 从袋子中取出一些馄饨皮，放到干的工作台上。在每个方形的馄饨皮的中央放一茶匙肉馅。给方皮的边缘轻轻涂上鸡蛋。轻轻地把一边折叠到另一边，把边缘捏到一起。你应该折叠成矩形。然后把下边的两个角往一块拉，捏到一起，做成传统的半弯的馄饨形状。把馄饨放到烤盘或大浅盘上，相互之间相隔一英寸。轻轻地撒上玉米淀粉，冷藏，不要盖盖子，直到开始煮。
Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil. Meanwhile, put a small handful of spinach leaves and about 2 tablespoons cilantro in each person’s deep wide soup bowl. When water is boiling, drop about 10 wontons into pot and cook for 2 minutes. Remove with wire bamboo spider (or a large fine-meshed sieve with a handle) and divide among bowls. Repeat with remaining wontons. Pour about 11/2 cups hot broth over each serving. Drizzle with red pepper oil if desired.
3. 把一大锅加盐的水烧开。与此同时，把一小把菠菜叶和约两汤匙香菜放到每个人的大深汤碗里。水烧开后，放入约十个馄饨，煮两分钟。用金属丝竹笊篱（或者大的带柄的细网眼筛子）把馄饨捞出来，分到各个碗里。剩下的馄饨照此烹制。在每个碗里倒入1.5杯热肉汤。如果愿意的话，滴一点红辣椒油。
YIELD: About 30 wontons, 3 to 6 portions, depending on serving size
分量：大约30个馄饨，可以分成3至6份
NOTE: To make red pepper oil, heat 1/2 cup vegetable oil in a saucepan until quite warm. Turn off heat and add 4 red Chinese chiles, 1/2 teaspoon cayenne, 1/2 teaspoon hot paprika and 1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil. Let cool. Store at cool room temperature.
注释：做红辣椒油的方法是在平底锅中加热1/2杯色拉油，直至很热。关火，加入4个红中国辣椒、1/2茶匙墨西哥辣椒、1/2茶匙红辣椒粉和1茶匙烤芝麻油。晾凉。在较低的室温中储存。