When Nelly Toll was 8 years old, during World War II, she rewrote the Cinderella fairy tale with a feminist twist. Instead of Prince Charming, a powerful princess invited Cinderella to live in her castle and enjoy a pianist performing in a sun-drenched room.
“二战”期间，八岁的奈莉·托尔(Nelly Toll)以女性主义视角把灰姑娘的故事重写了一遍。故事里没有白马王子，而是一个很强大的公主，邀请灰姑娘住进自己的城堡，两人在沐浴阳光的房间里聆听钢琴师的演奏。
Ms. Toll illustrated her story in seven watercolors, basing Cinderella on feisty women in Russian literature and the pianist on her mother, Rozia. But she concocted the fairy tale to transcend reality. She and Rozia, both Jewish, had locked themselves in a tiny room of a Christian family’s home in Nazi-occupied Poland.
托尔用七幅水彩画画出了自己的故事，按照俄罗斯文学里那些充满活力的女人来塑造灰姑娘的形象，把她的妈妈罗季娅(Rozia)画成钢琴师。但她编写这样的童话故事，只是为了超越眼前的现实。她和罗季娅都是犹太人，生活在纳粹占领的波兰，得把自己锁在一个基督家庭的小房间里逃避迫害。
“There is no evidence in the pictures of war, even though any minute our door might have opened to let the Nazis in,” said Ms. Toll, now 80 and living in New Jersey, who recalled hiding in 1943 and 1944.
“画面上没有任何战争的迹象，尽管每一分钟我们的门都有可能打开让纳粹进来，”现年80岁的托尔女士回忆1943年到1944年的躲藏岁月时这样说，如今她居住在新泽西。
Two of her watercolors will soon be on view in “Art From the Holocaust,” an exhibition at the German Historical Museum in Berlin of 100 works that were clandestinely created by 50 Holocaust-era artists. Of the group, half were killed by Adolf Hitler’s troops, but their creations survived.
她的两幅水彩画不久后将在“来自纳粹大屠杀期间的艺术”(Art From the Holocaust)上展出，这个展览将在柏林的德国历史博物馆(German Historical Museum)举办，展出50位大屠杀期间的艺术家们秘密创作的100件作品。这些艺术家中有一半是被阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)的军队杀害，但他们的作品得以留存。
The Holocaust memorial group Yad Vashem organized the exhibition, which opens Monday and runs through April 3. In choosing from Yad Vashem’s collection of about 6,000 Holocaust-era art donated by survivors and their families, and tracking down the stories behind these works, the curator Eliad Moreh-Rosenberg aimed to draw attention to this overlooked genre’s diverse themes.
这次展览是纳粹大屠杀纪念团体Yad Vashem组织的，将在周一开幕，持续到4月3日。Yad Vashem收藏了6000份大屠杀时期的艺术品，都是由幸存者及家人捐赠的，策展人伊利亚德·莫雷-罗森伯格(Eliad Moreh-Rosenberg)在选择展品、并追溯这些作品背后的故事时，格外关注这种受到忽视的多样性主题。
“Once they hear this art exists, people immediately think about stereotypical images from the Holocaust: barbed wire, yellow stars, chimneys,” Ms. Moreh-Rosenberg said in an interview.
“人们一听说这种艺术，准会马上联想起大屠杀的刻板印象：铁丝网、黄星、烟囱，”莫雷-罗森伯格女士在接受采访时说。
Such symbols appear in a few works but feature wry twists.
展览中的一些作品里也有这样的符号，但是都经过了嘲讽的处理。
A work by Leo Haas, born in what is now the Czech Republic, shows the 1942 arrival of prisoners to the Theresienstadt ghetto. Mr. Haas worked in the technical department there, creating Nazi propaganda by day and his secret art by night. Using purloined ink and paper, he portrayed inmates in a tidy serpentine line, emerging from a mountainous horizon to wind around symmetrically planted trees. Mr. Haas included a tiny “V” in the corner, the symbol of Theresienstadt’s underground movement.
里奥·哈斯(Leo Haas)出生在如今的捷克共和国境内，他的作品展现了1942年犯人来到特莱西恩施塔特集中营时的情形。哈斯在那里的技术部门工作，白天从事纳粹的宣传工作，晚上就秘密搞艺术创作。他用偷来的墨水和纸笔作画，用纤细蜿蜒的线条勾勒出同狱犯人的形象，他们从布满山麓的地平线上浮现出来，缠绕在对称种植的树木上。哈斯在画面角落写了一个小小的“V”字，这是特莱西恩施塔特地下活动的符号。
Bedrich Fritta, with Mr. Haas, also included the “V” in his works. One Fritta portrait in the Berlin exhibition shows a pickax-wielding laborer, whose jacket has a Star of David. But Mr. Fritta’s imprisoned laborer is handsome and muscular, defying Hitler’s stereotype of Jews as feeble.
贝德里奇·弗里塔(Bedrich Fritta)和哈斯一样，也在自己的作品上画了“V”字样。在柏林展出的一幅弗里塔作品上，画面中是一个挥舞鹤嘴锄的劳工，外套上有大卫之星的标识。但是弗里塔笔下的入狱劳工英俊健美，和希特勒宣传中那种弱不禁风的犹太人刻板印象截然不同。
For Ms. Moreh-Rosenberg, it’s not simply the artists’ themes that are rebellious, but also their determination to smuggle art supplies.
在莫雷-罗森伯格看来，这些艺术家创作的主题充满反抗性，不仅如此，他们努力私下创作艺术品，本身就是一种反抗行为。
“When you’re fighting for your life and your basic human needs,” she says, creating art “is not just an escape, it’s an active choice of defiance.”
“当你要为生存和生存的基本需要而奋斗的时候，”她说，创作艺术“不仅仅是一种逃避，也是一种积极选择的反抗”。
Mr. Fritta paid for that gamble with his life. The Nazis discovered his secret art and deported him in 1944 to Auschwitz, where they killed him. They also deported Mr. Haas, but he survived to exhume 400 artworks of his and help locate 200 of Mr. Fritta’s buried in Theresienstadt. (Mr. Haas died in Berlin in 1983.)
弗里塔为此赌上了自己的生命。1944年，纳粹发现了他的秘密创作，把他送入奥斯维辛，之后惨遭杀害。哈斯也被送入奥斯维辛，但他幸存下来，在特莱西恩施塔特重新发掘出自己的400幅艺术品，并协助发现了弗里塔埋藏的200幅作品（哈斯先生于1983年在柏林逝世）。
Ms. Toll said her mother begged the family hiding them to procure watercolors and told her that the captivity was part of a plan to help stimulate their imaginations. It also distracted Ms. Toll from agonizing over her missing brother and father. “My mother was my teacher, my girlfriend, my doctor when I got sick,” Ms. Toll said. “She was all these roles.”
托尔女士说，她妈妈请求藏匿她们的家庭帮她们弄来水彩，还告诉她，这种禁闭生涯其实是一项活动计划，旨在刺激她们的想像力。画画也帮助托尔分散注意力，不再那么为失去父亲和兄弟而伤心。“妈妈是我的老师、我的女友，我生病时还充当我的医生，”托尔说。“她充当了所有角色。”
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is scheduled to open the exhibition with Ms. Toll to commemorate 50 years of German-Israeli relations. The anniversary comes as many global Jewish leaders are still questioning Germany’s ability to return art looted from Jewish homes or sold under duress during Hitler’s time in power.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)将和托尔女士一起，为这个庆祝德国—以色列建交50周年的展览揭幕。然而，如今全球的许多犹太领袖仍在质疑德国是否能够归还希特勒掌权时代从犹太家庭劫掠或强制收购的艺术品。
Earlier this month Germany’s Culture Ministry issued its report on the collection of Cornelius Gurlitt, the octogenarian recluse whose father, Hildebrand, was one of Hitler’s art dealers. The younger Mr. Gurlitt hid about 1,200 works of art in Munich for decades before German officials confiscated the collection as part of a tax inquiry. A German magazine leaked word of the trove in late 2013.
廓尼琉斯·古尔利特(Cornelius Gurlitt)是个耄耋之年的隐居者，他的父亲希尔德布兰特(Hildebrand)是希特勒的艺术交易商之一。本月早些时候，德国文化部就古尔利特的藏品发表了一份报告。小古尔利特在慕尼黑藏匿了大约1200件艺术品，长达数十年之久，直至德国官方在征税时没收了部分藏品。2013年底，才有一家德国杂志泄露了这座宝藏的秘密。
After nearly two years and $2 million spent on the project, the report identified only five looted works. But the findings were not endorsed by all members of the committee that researched the collection. The ministry completed the report just hours before its news conference, leaving little time for members to completely read and approve it, according to Agnes Peresztegi, a task force member and president of the Commission for Art Recovery, a wing of the World Jewish Congress. She noted that the task report was in German only. Some of its members, including the Israel Museum’s representative, Shlomit Steinberg, are not fluent in German.
耗时近两年，花费了两亿美元，这份报告仅仅明确了5件劫掠艺术品的归属。但这些研究结果并未得到研究委员会所有成员的一致背书。根据特别工作组成员及艺术品收复委员会（Commission for Art Recovery，这是世界犹太人大会[World Jewish Congress]的下属机构）主席阿格妮丝·派赖斯泰吉(Agnes Peresztegi)的说法，这份报告是文化部在新闻发布会之前几个小时完成的，没有给委员会成员留下足够时间读完并认可。她指出，这项报告只用德语写成。有些成员，包括以色列博物馆的代表施洛米特·斯坦伯格(Shlomit Steinberg)并不熟练掌握德语。
“Good wishes and getting things done aren’t the same thing,” Ms. Peresztegi said. “Germany still has soul-searching to do.” She noted that Germany’s websites for the Lost Art Center and the German Lost Art Foundation lack full English translations.
“良好的愿望与把事情做好并不是一回事，”派赖斯泰吉女士说。“德国仍然需要深深自省。”她指出，德国的失落艺术品中心(Lost Art Center)与德国失落艺术品基金会(German Lost Art Foundation)等机构的网站都没有英文翻译。
A task force spokesman did not respond to requests for comment. A website for the German Lost Art Foundation has contained a statement since 2015 announcing that the English version is under construction.
特别工作组发言人并没有对这些评论做出回应。德国失落艺术中心网站上有一份2015年发表的声明，声称英语版网站正在建设中。
Ms. Moreh-Rosenberg, the curator, said she wished that the chancellor’s participation in the exhibition would “increase awareness of the Holocaust and increase sensitivity about the justice that still needs to be done.”
策展人莫雷-罗森伯格女士说，她希望总理此次参与展览能够“提升人们对纳粹大屠杀的意识，增进人们对公正的敏感度，要知道如今公正仍然有待实现”。
Ms. Toll said she hoped that visitors to the exhibition would acknowledge the destructive power of religious intolerance while appreciating Hitler’s “failure to kill the spirit,” including the creative spark shown in the work of a boy her age, Petr Ginz from Prague. In one of Petr’s displayed watercolors, he portrays the room he shared with other children in Theresienstadt in 1943 as a cheery collection of summer camp bunk beds. Petr edited the secret “school” newspaper. In September 1944, the Nazis transported him to Auschwitz and murdered him.
托尔女士说，她希望参观者们能够了解对他人信仰的不宽容所产生的破坏性力量，同时看到，希特勒“并没有杀死人们的精神”，展览中还有一个与她同龄男孩的作品——来自布拉格的皮特·金兹(Petr Ginz)，从他的作品中亦能体现这一点。皮特展出的一幅水彩画上，是1943年他和其他孩子们在特莱西恩施塔特的房间，他把这里画成了一张张欢快的夏令营小床。皮特还编辑了一份秘密的“校报”。1944年9月，纳粹将他送入奥斯维辛，并将其杀害。
A few months later, the Russian Army liberated the town of Lviv where Ms. Toll was hiding. She ran into the street where Russian soldiers gave her candy. News came that Nazis had killed her brother and father. She and her mother moved to the United States, where she became a citizen, married and earned a Ph.D. in English. She still loves to paint.
几个月后，苏联红军解放了托尔女士藏身的利沃夫小镇。她跑到街上，苏联士兵给她糖果。消息传来，纳粹杀害了她的兄弟和父亲。她和妈妈搬到了美国，成了美国公民，后来她嫁给一个英语博士。她至今仍然热爱绘画。
“It was a long time ago,” Ms. Toll said of the secret room. “It feels like a different version of me.”
“那是很久以前的事了，”托尔女士说起那个秘密房间。“感觉就像是另一个我。”