Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida who has been pretending not to be a presidential candidate for months, stopped that charade today with an “announcement speech” in Miami in which he pretended some other things: that he is not part of a political dynasty, that he has shown how to cut government costs while protecting ordinary people, and that he will be a candidate to all people all the time.
几个月来一直装作不打算参选总统的前佛罗里达州长杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)，今天终于停止了这种骗小孩子的把戏。但在迈阿密的一场“宣告演讲”中，他又开始装别的：装作自己不是一个政治王朝的一份子，装作他已经证明，自己可以在削减政府开支的同时，保护黎民百姓，而他时刻准备着作每一个人的总统候选人。
That last promise — “I will campaign as I would serve, going everywhere, speaking to everyone, keeping my word, facing the issues without flinching, and staying true to what I believe” — is such obvious nonsense that voters can only blame themselves for believing it.
“我怎么执政，就会怎么竞选，我将走遍每一个地方，和每一个人对话，履行诺言，不回避棘手问题，坚守我的信念。”演讲最后的这些承诺，是太过明显的无稽之谈，选民要是连这都信，就怨不得别人了。
Mr. Bush will do what every other presidential contender does – pander to the party base to win the nominating contests and then maybe, just maybe, move toward the center during the general election. If Mr. Bush runs to the right, he will have that in common with his father and his brother. If he actually moves toward the political center in the general election, then that would distinguish him from his more famous relatives.
布什先生会和其他竞逐总统宝座的人一样——先迎合本党选民以赢得提名，然后可能——只是可能——在大选中向中间靠拢。如果跑到右边，布什先生就会和他的父亲、兄长保持一致。如果真的在大选中选择走中间路线，他将和两位名气比他大的亲属站在不同立场上。
He is trying hard to set himself apart from his family – an absurd task – and neither his brother nor his ailing father was at his event today. Sometimes he tries too hard. Asked by CNN’s Dana Bash in Estonia the other day about what sets him apart, Mr. Bush replied that his “life story is different.” He added: “Something that I think has been lacking in the presidency is to have someone who has been tempered by life.”
他在努力跟自己的家族保持距离——这是个荒诞不经的想法——他的兄长和病中的父亲今天都没到场。有时候，他的这种想法会显得太过迫切。CNN的达娜·拜什(Dana Bash)曾问他和别人有什么不同，当时身在爱沙尼亚的布什先生说，他有“不一样的人生故事”。他说：“我认为在总统这个位置上，现在缺的是一个经过岁月打磨的人。”
Interesting.
有意思。
Mr. Bush is, in fact, distinct from most of his Republican rivals in that he supports a “legal” status for undocumented immigrants, although not citizenship. It would be refreshing if he stuck to that position during the nominating season. His fellow Floridian, Senator Marco Rubio, has already abandoned his pro-immigration positions.
布什先生不支持向无证移民授予国籍，但他支持授予他们“合法”地位的做法，这就已经迥异于共和党内大多数对手。如果能在竞逐提名阶段保持这个立场，将是令人振奋的。他的佛罗里达同僚马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)已经放弃了支持移民的立场。
On most other issues you can name, Mr. Bush is indistinguishable from the huge Republican field. He claims he can solve the seemingly insoluble mess in Iraq without “combat troops” but that’s as transparent a dodge as it is when President Obama uses it. Mr. Bush says he would “embed” American troops with Iraqi forces. Those are combat troops.
在其他大部分你能想到的问题上，布什先生基本上跟共和党主流没什么不同。针对看似无解的伊拉克乱局，他声称找到了无需投入“作战部队”的办法，但听起来跟奥巴马总统一样明显在躲躲闪闪。布什先生说他会将美军士兵“嵌入”到伊拉克武装力量中。而这就是投入作战部队。
He talks a lot about cutting government and cites his record in Florida. He did indeed cut the number of people the government employed, but he did so without cutting the size of government and by privatizing some government services, like child welfare and prisons, that should never be privatized. He cut taxes – for people who own stocks and bonds and mutual funds.
他常说要如何削减政府，并提及他在佛罗里达的成绩。他的确削减了政府雇员的数量，但并没有缩减政府规模，倒是将一些不应该被私有化的政府部门私有化了，比如儿童福利和监狱。他减了税——对象是持有股票、债券和共有基金的人。
He says he increased the number of private-sector jobs in Florida, which did indeed go up while he was in office. But no single politician is responsible for economic growth and Mr. Bush’s tenure included two strong economic periods in which the entire country’s economy grew.
他说他增加了佛罗里达私营部门的就业，这项数据在他任内的确是上升了。但经济增长的功劳不能归在某一个政客的身上，布什先生任内经历了两个经济强势期，全国经济都在增长。
Mr. Bush is anti-choice and anti-marriage equality, garden-variety right-wing positions. He claims, as do many other Republicans, that allowing same-sex couples to marry would imperil the institution of marriage, and that “religious liberty” in this country is somehow threatened.
布什先生是反人流选择权、反婚姻平等的普通型右翼。和许多共和党人一样，他声称允许同性结婚会危及婚姻制度，对这个国家的“宗教自由”也会构成某种威胁。
That’s not true, of course. What really seems to concern Mr. Bush is the dominance of his own religious views.
这当然是错的。布什先生真正关心的，似乎是将自己的宗教观凌驾于众人之上。