Frederick Taylor’s “The Downfall of Money” promises, on its jacket, to deliver “an economic horror story.” A horror it was: We’ve all seen the photos from Germany with the wheelbarrows full of cash or the children playfully stacking bricks of worthless bills (by late 1923 the mark had deteriorated from a value of 4.2 to the dollar in 1914 to over 4 trillion). The monetary crisis was so traumatic that to this day, it renders the German people thoroughly allergic to price increases.
弗里德里克·泰勒(Frederick Taylor)的《金钱的覆灭》(The Downfall of Money)在书封上承诺带来一个“经济恐怖故事”。它也的确很恐怖：我们都见过那些来自德国的照片，独轮车满载着钞票，孩子们用大堆毫无价值的钞票堆积木玩（到1923年底，马克的汇率从1914年的4.2马克兑换一美元下跌到4万亿马克一美元）。货币危机带来的创伤实在太大，直到今日，德国人还是极度讨厌物价上涨。
But despite its title, this book is primarily concerned not with money but with everything else the Germans were also concerned with from 1914 to about 1929: military strategy, starvation, assassinations (of people good and bad), putsches (fruitless and fruitful), foreign occupation, riots, strikes and pretty much every other permutation of anarchy and ­violence.
但是，虽然顶着这个书名，本书最关心的却并非金钱问题，而是从1914年到大约1929年这段时间里，与德国人相关的其他一切问题：军事战略、饥荒、暗杀（遇刺的有好人也有坏人）、起义（有的有成果，有的没有成果）、外国占领、暴动、罢工，以及各种无政府主义与暴力的组合。
For the first 100 pages or so, Taylor, the author of “Dresden” and “The Berlin Wall,” gives us a highly detailed, and somewhat detoured, narrative of the years around World War I. There is little mention of monetary issues, save an occasional reference to the exchange rate. Taylor pays more attention to the economic issues of the 1920s, but even then what he really seems to want to write about is the general craziness that was Weimar Germany.
泰勒的著作还包括《德累斯顿》(Dresden)和《柏林墙》(The Berlin Wall)，在本书的最初100页里，他对“一战”前后的岁月做了极为详细，甚至稍微有些离题的描述，并没怎么提到货币金融方面的问题，只有一次提到了汇率。泰勒非常注意20世纪20年代的经济问题，但甚至写到那个年代的时候，他似乎还是更愿意描写德国魏玛时代的集体疯狂。
There is much engrossing craziness to cover. Many readers are no doubt familiar with the Treaty of Versailles’ war-guilt clause, which shifted blame for a pointless, expensive autopilot of a war entirely onto Germany and its allies. Fewer probably remember how that finger-pointing then ricocheted within Germany itself after the Kaiser was ousted and splintered groups of Communists, Social Democrats and far-right nationalists blamed one another for the humiliations of the war and its aftermath. Abused by the vengeful victors, the Germans turned to abusing (and slaughtering) themselves.
有很多引人入胜的疯狂行为值得一写。许多读者肯定熟悉凡尔赛合约中的战争罪条款，它把一台毫无意义、造价昂贵的战争自动发动机完全归咎于德国及同盟国。然而很少有人记得，这种指责是如何在德国激起强烈反弹，当时德国皇帝被罢黜，共产党、社会民主党等小团体，以及极右民族主义者互相指责对方导致了战败的耻辱及后果。被复仇心情的胜利者们虐待的德国人反过来开始虐待（和屠杀）他人。
To be sure, Germany was not simply a victim deserving of sympathy. Taylor documents its plans to visit crushing indemnities and annexations upon its enemies had it prevailed in the war. Everyone, he argues repeatedly, behaved badly. And almost everyone borrowed way too much to bankroll this bad behavior, counting on the other guy’s losing in order to get back in the black. The United States, the main creditor to the other victors, comes off looking worse than Americans may care to remember. It was Washington’s refusal to forgive the Allies’ war debts, after all, that encouraged Britain and France to tighten the screws on the broke and psychically broken Germany (which was effectively paying French and British debts to the United States indirectly). As a result, Uncle Sam collected the nickname “Uncle Shylock.”
诚然，德国并不只是值得同情的牺牲品。泰勒的书里有记载，德国计划一旦战胜，就要征收巨额赔款，并谋求吞并敌国。他不断强调，所有国家的表现都很糟。几乎所有国家都大量借款，为这种恶劣行为提供资金，寄希望于其他国家的损失可以令自己从中获利。作为其他战胜国的主要债权国，美国的表现比美国人记忆中的要糟糕。华盛顿拒绝免除协约国的战争债务，正因如此，英国和法国才加强了对战败国的控制，在精神上击溃了德国（德国其实是在间接替法国和英国还清欠美国的债务）。因此山姆大叔也得到了“夏洛克大叔”（指莎士比亚戏剧《威尼斯商人》中的吝啬鬼——译注）的绰号。
Only toward the end of the book are we introduced to the long-awaited hyperinflation. There Taylor details the less obvious ways in which dizzyingly high prices frayed the social fabric. Women couldn’t marry, for example, because their dowry savings had been inflated away. Lifestyle choices became strangely distorted by price ­changes; unlike food costs, opera ticket prices remained cheap because they were set by the state, encouraging consumption of entertainment instead of calories. Strikes and riots abounded — including, most memorably, a strike by Reich printing house workers when the government finally got serious about stamping out inflation. (If they weren’t regularly printing money, they were in danger of losing their jobs.)
直到本书末尾，我们才看到期待已久的极度通货膨胀景象。泰勒详细描写了令人眼花缭乱的高价如何以不那么明显的方式损毁了社会结构。比如说，当时的女人们都嫁不出去，因为她们的嫁妆钱都贬值殆尽了。生活方式选择也被物价改变奇异地扭曲了。和食品价格不同，歌剧票的价格是由国家制定的，因此相当便宜，所以促进了娱乐方面，而不是饮食方面的消费。到处都是罢工和暴动，其中最重大的是德国印刷工人罢工，却发生在政府最终开始认真采取措施消灭通货膨胀的时候（如果工人不能持续印刷钞票，他们就有失业的危险）。
There are, Taylor suggests, parallels between the profligate German welfare state of the 1920s and Germany’s European Union peers today. But he is frustratingly noncommittal about why the German government pursued the inflationary policies it did — and to what extent they were deliberate or just ad hoc. Uncertainty ruled not only Weimar economic policy, it seems, but also the historians’ assessments that followed.
泰勒指出，20世纪20年代，德国采取挥霍无度的国家福利政策，这同如今德国在欧盟的伙伴们有相似之处。但令人遗憾的是，他没有详细写出当时德国政府为什么采取通货膨胀政策，他们在多大程度上是蓄意如此，抑或只是临时政策。不仅魏玛的经济政策充满了不确定性，后世历史学家们对它的评价似乎也不分明。