BERLIN — The result of German state elections, in which an insurgent far-right party garnered up to 25 percent of the vote, signaled a rare turn toward political vulnerability for Chancellor Angela Merkel, as well as potential instability for her country and perhaps paralysis for Europe as a whole.
柏林——德国州议会的选举结果显示，一个叛经逆道的极右政党获得的选票最多达到了25%。这标志着一个罕见的转折点：德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)可能受到政治撼动，德国或许会变得不稳定，欧洲作为一个整体也可能会瘫痪。
Whether Europeans like it or not, they have come to count on Merkel's leadership through successive crises in the past decade. Merkel's Germany has seemed impervious to the protest votes and economic woes engulfing much of the Continent.
无论是欧洲人喜欢与否，在过去十年的历次危机中，他们都得依靠默克尔的领导力度过难关。默克尔当政期间，抗议性投票和席卷欧洲大陆许多地区的经济问题似乎对德国没有影响。
But the elections in two western states and an eastern one on Sunday amounted to a stark warning that Germans are not happy with the prospect of integrating 1 million migrants and refugees from the wars in Iraq and Syria.
但是在周日，德国西部两个州及东部一个州的选举结果无异于赤裸裸的警告：对于要融合来自伊拉克和叙利亚战争的100万移民与难民的前景，德国人并不乐意。
The outcome is likely to further complicate efforts to solve a migration crisis in which coordination among Europeans is already so haphazard that Merkel has looked to Turkey to solve the problem for them.
这样的结果很可能会让解决移民危机的努力变得更加复杂。在这个问题上，欧洲各国之间的协调本已一团糟，以至于默克尔希望土耳其来为他们解决这个问题。
But Turkey, too, has been consumed by instability and violence amid growing fears of spillover from the civil war in Syria, raising questions about the country's ability to be a reliable partner in stemming the flow of migrants from its shores.
但是，随着叙利亚内战蔓延的可能性令人越来越担忧，动荡和暴力让土耳其精疲力竭，所以该国是否有能力成为一个可靠的合作伙伴，遏制移民从土耳其海岸流入欧洲，也还是个未知数。
In addition, Turkey's human rights policies contravene principles that Merkel upholds elsewhere, unsettling voters and some other European governments.
此外，土耳其的人权政策与默克尔在其他地方坚持的原则相抵触，令选民和其他一些欧洲国家的政府无法安心。
To the surprise of virtually no one, however, Merkel insisted Monday that she would not change course in the wake of returns that gave the far-right Alternative for Germany party its best showing ever.
不过，默克尔周一坚持表示，她不会在德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany)获得史上最佳战绩之后改弦易辙。几乎没有人对此感到惊讶。
While conceding a “difficult day” on Sunday, the chancellor said she would continue admitting and integrating refugees, despite rising demands — even, or especially, from her now-wounded conservative bloc — to set limits on the numbers arriving.
默克尔承认周日是“艰难的一天”，但她表示自己将继续接收并融合难民，即便要求限制难民到达人数的呼声正在日益高涨——就连现在遭受冲击的保守阵营也有人提出这种要求，尤其考虑到这是她领导的阵营。
Merkel has won foreign plaudits for her courage and constancy. But her stance has been criticized in a Europe wary of the migrants, and it has left Merkel increasingly isolated at home, with even rockier days appearing ahead.
默克尔的勇气和坚定赢得了国外的喝彩。但是她的立场遭到了那些对移民心怀戒备的欧洲民众的批评，而且也让默克尔在国内越来越孤立，前面的道路会愈发艰难。
But the chancellor is keenly aware that her country is always closely watched because of its troubled history, and that the stakes for Germany are larger than her own political fortunes.
不过，默克尔敏锐地意识到，由于历史上的污点，德国一直遭受着外界的密切审视，国家的前途比她自己的政治命运更重要。
Merkel, in power since 2005, faces the biggest test of her political career. If she weakens and eventually stumbles, she would follow at least two other German chancellors — Helmut Schmidt and Gerhard Schroeder, her predecessor — in risking her job over a principle.
默克尔正面对着她政治生涯中的最大考验。她于2005年成为总理，如果这次经受不住冲击，她就会步上至少其他两位德国总理的后尘——赫尔穆特·施密特(Helmut Schmidt)和她的上一任格哈德·施罗德(Gerhard Schroeder)——因为坚持原则而下台。
She is far from such a danger right now. But her Bavarian partner, Horst Seehofer, has complained about her course for months and said Monday that the country and its conservative bloc “can't go on like this.”
这样的危险目前还仅仅是个苗头。但她在巴伐利亚州的伙伴霍斯特·泽霍费尔(Horst Seehofer)本周一表示，德国及其保守阵营“不能再这样下去了”。泽霍费尔抱怨她的做法已经有数月之久。
Given the Nazi past, it has been a mantra here that the center-right could not allow a party to flourish further right.
鉴于纳粹那段历史，德国一直存在共识，中间偏右阵营不能让某个党派再进一步右行。
But by appearing more in step with other Europeans unsettled by globalization and change, the Alternative for Germany, which started three years ago as a protest movement against the euro currency, may have made it harder for other German parties to brand its followers neo-Nazis.
然而，三年前作为抗议欧元货币运动成立的德国另类选择党，由于和那些对全球化和变化感到不安的另一部分欧洲民众显得更加同步，德国的其他党派已经比较难以把它的追随者称为新纳粹分子了。
The new party won “not just because of the vacuum on the right, but because they attracted voters who were anti-Establishment, anti-liberalization, anti-European, anti-everything that has come to be regarded as the norm,” said Sylke Tempel of the German Council on Foreign Relations.
德国对外关系委员会(German Council on Foreign Relations)的西尔克·腾佩尔(Sylke Tempel)认为，这个新党派获胜“不仅是因为右翼存在真空，也因为他们吸引了那些反建制派、反自由化、反欧盟、反对一切被视为常态的事务的选民。”
Postelection analysis showed that her party failed to address the fears stirred by the refugees, Merkel said. “It also became clear,” she said, “that we have a world which is changing, and that many people have the impression that this world is in great disorder.”
默克尔说，选后分析表明，她的政党未能平息难民激起的担忧情绪。“事情也变得更加清晰，”她说，“我们所处的世界正在改变，很多人感觉这个世界极为无序。”
For the first time, the chancellor and her colleagues acknowledged that the hundreds of reported sexual assaults and robberies by Arab and North African men on young women in Cologne on New Year's Eve were a turning point, and had influenced her party's poor showing on Sunday.
科隆在除夕发生了数百起据称阿拉伯和北非男人对年轻女子进行性侵犯和抢劫的案件。默克尔和她的同僚如今第一次承认那是一个转折点，是她的党派周日表现不佳的原因之一。
Whether even a reduced influx of refugees will help Merkel is not clear. In any case, a lasting solution is still lacking, even Merkel concedes, at least as it pertains to Europe.
连涌入欧洲的难民减少，是否会对默克尔有所帮助，都不好说。总之，就连默克尔也不得不承认，目前依然缺少一个长久的解决之道，至少在牵涉欧洲的时候。
The refugee crisis will now be with Germans for years, and the skill in handling it will determine whether the country retains its position as Europe's bulwark.
在接下来的多年里，这场难民危机会一直伴随德国，而处理这一问题的技能，将决定这个国家还能否保有其欧洲堡垒的地位。
“Cologne was a killer,” Tempel said. “Because Cologne is not just about giving shelter. It is about integration, and therefore a much, much deeper matter.”
“科隆是个大难题，”腾佩尔说。“因为科隆意味着，不仅仅要为难民提供庇护，还要进行融合，所以这个问题要深入许多。”
The fact that North African men who had arrived in Germany years ago — not in the current wave of migration — were blamed for the assaults gave people the feeling that the government had been lax about security, allowing these men to “hang around unnoticed for years,” engaging in petty or more serious crime, Tempel said.
腾佩尔表示，袭击者为多年前来到德国的北非男性——而非在目前这股移民潮中抵达的人——这样一个事实，让人感觉政府在安全问题上一直比较松懈，允许那些人“晃荡多年，无人注意”，参与着或小或大的犯罪活动。