NAIROBI, Kenya — When the United States tried to capture a powerful militant in Somalia last weekend, it did not go after the leader of the Shabab extremist group, but a Kenyan national whose ties were as much in his native country as in the Horn of Africa.
肯尼亚内罗毕——上周末，美国试图在索马里抓捕一名强悍的激进分子。他们的目标并不是极端组织青年党(Shabab)的最高领导人，而是一个肯尼亚人。此人在其祖国和非洲之角都有强大的关系网。
Outside of Somalia itself, Kenya sends more fighters to the Shabab than does any other country, analysts say. Young Kenyan men have ridden buses to the border in large numbers for years, local Muslim leaders say, drawn by payments of up to $1,000 to cross into Somalia and fight for the group.
分析人士称，在索马里之外的国家中，肯尼亚向青年党输送的作战人员最多。当地穆斯林领袖表示，多年来，在多达1000美元（约合6200元人民币）酬劳的诱惑之下，大批肯尼亚男青年乘坐公共汽车抵达两国边境，进入索马里替该组织作战。
But ever since the Kenyan military stormed into southern Somalia two years ago, many Kenyan fighters have been coming back home, local leaders and experts say, creating a larger, increasingly sophisticated network of trained jihadists in a country where people from around the globe gather in crowded, lightly protected public places.
不过，当地领导人和专家均表示，自从肯尼亚军方两年前闯入索马里南部之后，许多肯尼亚籍作战人员都已回归故里，并建立起了一个规模更大、日趋成熟的圣战分子网络，其成员均训练有素。肯尼亚汇聚着来自世界各地的人潮，拥挤的公共场所却安保寥寥。
“The growing number of militants in Kenya,” said J. Peter Pham, director of the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council in Washington, “is a serious concern — or ought to be — for both U.S. policy makers and their Kenyan counterparts.”
“肯尼亚境内激进分子人数日益增多，”总部位于华盛顿的大西洋理事会非洲中心(Africa Center at Atlantic Council)的主任J·彼得·范(J. Peter Pham)说，“这是，或者说应该是，美国决策者及其肯尼亚伙伴高度关切的问题。”
Unlike Somalia, which has been isolated by decades of chaos, Kenya is home to thousands of American expatriates working for multinational companies, the United States Embassy, the United Nations and nonprofit groups. Beyond that, tens of thousands of American tourists come here for safaris and beach vacations every year, prompting the United States to issue a travel warning after the deadly siege on the Westgate mall in Nairobi last month because of “potential terrorist threats aimed at U.S., Western, and Kenyan interests in Kenya.”
几十年的混乱让索马里成了与世隔绝之地，而肯尼亚并非如此，这里生活着数以千计为跨国公司、美国大使馆、联合国和非营利机构工作的美国侨民。此外，每年还有数以万计的美国游客前来野外观光，或者到海滩上度假。鉴于此，内罗毕韦斯特盖特商场上个月发生致命袭击事件之后，美国发布了旅游警告，因为“肯尼亚境内存在针对美国、西方和肯尼亚利益的潜在恐怖主义威胁。”
To much of the world, the attack on the mall, in which Islamist radicals killed more than 60 men, women and children, underscored the growing international threat of the Shabab, a group that once seemed more focused on imposing Islamic law in Somalia than with staging major attacks across international boundaries.
伊斯兰激进分子在商场中发动的袭击，导致60多名男女老少身亡。对大多数国家而言，这突显出青年党的国际威胁正日益加大。过去，该组织似乎更多地强调在索马里推行伊斯兰教法，而非在国际范围内发动大规模袭击。
But the siege has also illustrated the growing radicalism of Kenya’s own neglected, disaffected Muslim population. At least one member of the small group of attackers at the Westgate mall was Kenyan, according to Kenyan officials, and several witnesses have described hearing the combatants speaking Swahili, one of Kenya’s national languages, sometimes flawlessly.
但此次袭击也表明，肯尼亚国内被忽视的对现状不满的穆斯林群体中，存在着越来越大的极端主义倾向。按照肯尼亚官员的说法，韦斯特盖特商场那一小群袭击者当中，至少有一个是肯尼亚人。若干目击者则表示，曾听见一些武装分子说斯瓦希里语，有时还极为流利。斯瓦希里语是肯尼亚的官方语言之一。
Kenya’s slums have long provided a fertile recruiting ground for Muslim extremists, but analysts say that the Shabab have been finding recruits from across the country, not just in traditionally Muslim areas like Mombasa or Somali enclaves and refugee camps. The heavy-handed response by the Kenyan police seems to have driven more young men to embrace radicalism.
多年来，肯尼亚的贫民窟一直是穆斯林极端分子招兵买马的沃土。但分析人士称，青年党招募新成员的范围已经遍及肯尼亚各地，而非局限于蒙巴萨等传统的穆斯林地区、索马里人聚居区和难民营。肯尼亚警方回应以高压手段，这似乎已驱使更多的青年男性信奉极端主义。
Deadly riots broke out last week in the coastal city of Mombasa after a popular Muslim cleric was shot dead in what many believe was an attack by security services.
上周，在一名广受欢迎的穆斯林神职人员中弹身亡后，沿海城市蒙巴萨爆发了流血骚乱。许多人认为，这名神职人员遭到了安全部门的袭击。
“A day after the killings,” said Abubaker Shariff Ahmed, a fundamentalist cleric in Mombasa, “a group of boys came to me and they said, ‘Sheik, find us a way to communicate with Al Shabab. We want to help, but we don’t have weapons.’ ”
蒙巴萨的原教旨主义神职人员阿布巴卡尔·谢里夫·艾哈迈德(Abubaker Shariff Ahmed)称，“枪杀事件发生一天后，一群男孩来找我，他们说，‘谢赫，帮我们想个办法联系青年党吧。我们想帮忙，但是没有武器。’”
Until recently, the Shabab’s Kenyan affiliate, Al Hijra, was “a group that appeared to be fumbling and amateurish, operationally,” said Matt Bryden, a former head of the United Nations Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea. But “a core of committed fighters has emerged and they have been learning.”
联合国索马里和厄立特里亚问题监察组(United Nations Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea)的前负责人马特·布莱登(Matt Bryden)表示，直到最近，青年党在肯尼亚的分支希吉拉组织(Al Hijra)都还是“一个在运作上处于摸索阶段的业余组织”，但“已经涌现出了一批忠诚的核心作战人员，而且他们一直在学习”。
Fighters who have trained in Somalia are filtering back into Kenya, he said, bringing new discipline, dedication and expertise.
布莱登称，在索马里受训的作战人员正渗透回肯尼亚，他们带来了新的纪律、忠诚度和专业知识。
“There have also been indications that over the last six months or so they’ve been scaling down grenade throwing and small stuff, partly to get some relief from law enforcement, but also because they realized this wasn’t getting them anywhere,” said Mr. Bryden, now a director at the Sahan Research and Development Organization, an independent Nairobi-based group. “They decided to aim for something that would do more damage and be more spectacular.”
“此外，有迹象显示，大概在最近6个月里，他们淡化了扔手榴弹等小打小闹。在某种程度上，这是为了躲避执法者的打击，但同时也是因为，他们意识到小打小闹不会有大出息，”布莱登说，“他们决定着眼于更具破坏力、更引人注目的事情。”他目前在内罗毕的独立机构沙汗研究与发展组织(Sahan Research and Development Organization)任负责人。
A Kenyan intelligence report last year said that a Kenyan explosives expert had trained 20 Kenyan militants in Somalia, including in Baraawe, the port town where Navy SEALs staged an unsuccessful raid on Saturday to capture Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir, a Kenyan citizen who uses the nom de guerre Ikrima and is accused of plotting attacks in both Kenya and Somalia.
肯尼亚去年公布的一份情报报告称，一名肯尼亚爆破专家在索马里境内的布拉瓦等地对20名激进分子进行了培训。布拉瓦是一座港口城镇，海豹突击队(Navy SEALs)上周六在此发起突袭，试图抓捕阿卜迪卡迪·穆罕默德·阿卜迪卡迪(Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir)，但并未成功。他是肯尼亚公民，化名为伊克里马(Ikrima)，被控策划了肯尼亚以及索马里境内的一些袭击事件。
The Kenyan militants are increasingly sophisticated and dangerous, with safe houses and weapons stores at their disposal, according to the intelligence report. Aware that they are being watched, the report said, militants here have cut down on mobile-phone contact and begun using unsent draft e-mails in accounts for which they share passwords to communicate without detection.
前述情报报告显示，在肯尼亚，有隐蔽点和武器库任本土激进分子进出。他们正变得越来越老练，同时也越来越危险。文中还称，激进分子意识到自己被盯上了，于是不再使用移动电话，而是开始通过共享密码的电子邮箱里未发送的草稿沟通，令人无法察觉。
“Al Shabab has started investing more in building out its own network in Kenya,” said Katherine Zimmerman, senior analyst at the Critical Threats Project of the American Enterprise Institute. “There is an Al Shabab network that extends down through Kenya and into Tanzania.”
“青年党已经开始加大在肯尼亚构建自身网络的投入，”美国企业研究所(American Enterprise Institute)关键威胁项目的高级分析师凯瑟琳·齐默尔曼(Katherine Zimmerman)说，“目前，青年党已经建立了通过肯尼亚向南扩散到坦桑尼亚的网络。”
Abdi Aynte, executive director of the Heritage Institute for Policy Studies in Mogadishu, Somalia, said that with porous borders and corrupt police officers, it was relatively easy to cross into Kenya with a bribe at the border.
在索马里摩加迪沙的政策学传统研究所(Heritage Institute for Policy Studies)任执行董事的阿卜迪·艾因特(Abdi Aynte)称，肯索边境漏洞百出，警务人员腐化，只要在边境地区行贿，就可以相对轻松地进入肯尼亚。
“There is no inhibiting force at all to prevent you from going into Somalia or from Somalia into Kenya,” he said.
“根本不存在能阻止你进出的力量，不论是从肯尼亚到索马里，还是从索马里到肯尼亚，”他说。