Tim Robbins and the Actors’ Gang, a Los Angeles ensemble theater troupe, will bring their production of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” to audiences in China this summer. Mr. Robbins, the actor who has served as the company’s artistic director for more than three decades, will direct the performances scheduled to take place June 10 to 15 at the National Center for the Performing Arts in Beijing as part of its Shakespeare festival and June 19-21 at the Zendai Himalayas Art Center in Shanghai.
蒂姆·罗宾斯(Tim Robbins)与洛杉矶剧团“演员帮”(Actor’s Gang)今夏将为中国观众带来他们演绎的《仲夏夜之梦》(A Midsummer Night’s Dream)。演员罗宾斯同时也在这个公司担任了30多年的艺术指导，他将担任该剧导演。该剧将于6月10日至15日在北京的国家大剧院上演，作为莎士比亚节的一部分；6月19日到21日，将在上海的喜马拉雅中心上演。
In a phone interview, Mr. Robbins said the opportunity to tour in China arose after a number of presenters from around the world attended a performance of “Midsummer” last year at the company’s Los Angeles home. As the troupe has done in the past, it will stage the play with minimal costumes, props or scenery in order to put greater focus on Shakespeare’s text.
在电话采访中，罗宾斯说，去年来自世界各地的许多节目主持人来到洛杉矶，观看了该公司《仲夏夜之梦》的演出，随后剧团就获得了去中国演出的机会。和剧团过去的做法一样，它在演出时会使用极其简单的服装、道具和布景，令观众把更多注意力放在莎士比亚的剧本上。
“There’s a certain pace to it, particularly in the comedies,” he said, adding that he preferred to stick with the words as written. “It’s a good meter. It’s a good rhythm. Don’t mess with the rhythm.”
“他的剧本中有一种特定的步调，特别是喜剧，”罗宾斯说，并补充说自己更愿意使用原著中的字眼。“它有很好的韵律，它有很好的节奏。不要打乱节奏。”
The company says it is just the second American theater troupe to perform in the Beijing center since it opened in 2007, but it will not be putting any kind of American stamp on “Midsummer,” nor has it been urged to tailor the work for Chinese audiences.
该公司表示，自北京的国家大剧院于2007年投入使用以来，它是第二个在其中演出的美国剧团，但是它不会为《仲夏夜之梦》打上任何美国印记，也不会去刻意迎合中国观众的口味。
“There’s been no attempt to change anything or to ask us to do it in a certain way,” Mr. Robbins said. “My hope with China is the truer we stay to the original intent, the more it will translate viscerally beyond language.”
“没人试图让我们做出改变或者要求我们用某种特定的方式演绎，”罗宾斯说。“我对中国演出的期望是，我们愈是忠实原著，就愈能传递出发自内心、超越语言的东西。”
After the performances in China, the company will travel to Italy to perform at the Spoleto Festival from June 28 to July 6.
在中国的演出结束之后，剧团将赴意大利，参加6月28日至7月6日举行的斯波莱托艺术节。