With Hanukkah coming to an end, Christmas days away, and people taking time off work, we are in a season of quickened faith. When you watch people exercise that faith, whether lighting candles or attending Midnight Mass, the first thing you see is how surprising it is. You’d think faith would be a simple holding of belief, or a confidence in things unseen, but, in real life, faith is unpredictable and ever-changing.
在光明节临近尾声、圣诞假期即将到来、人们享受美好假日的同时，我们正置身于信仰的加速复苏季。看到人们信仰外露的情景——不论是点燃蜡烛，还是参加午夜弥撒——你首先会感觉这么做令人非常诧异。你或许认为，信仰只不过是持有一种信念或者相信某些不可见的存在，但在现实生活中，信仰是难以捉摸、不断变化的。
It begins, for many people, with an elusive experience of wonder and mystery. The best modern book on belief is “My Bright Abyss” by my Yale colleague, Christian Wiman. In it, he writes, “When I hear people say they have no religious impulse whatsoever ... I always want to respond: Really? You have never felt overwhelmed by, and in some way inadequate to, an experience in your life, have never felt something in yourself staking a claim beyond yourself, some wordless mystery straining through word to reach you? Never?”
对许多人而言，信仰都开始于一种难以解释的奇妙而又神秘的经验。当代最好的一本关于信仰的书，是出自我在耶鲁大学(Yale)的同事克里斯蒂安·威曼(Christian Wiman)之手的《我的光明深渊》(My Bright Abyss) 。他在书中写道：“听见有人说他们自己没有任何宗教冲动时，我总是想要这样回应：真的吗？一生当中，从来没有哪种经验让你不知所措、难以承受，并在某些方面觉得无能为力吗？你从来没有感觉到内心当中的某个部分正在坚守一个超越自我的主张，某种无言的神秘感正穿透语言的障碍抵达你的内心深处吗？从来没有？”
Most believers seem to have had these magical moments of wonder and clearest consciousness, which suggested a dimension of existence beyond the everyday. Maybe it happened during childbirth, with music, in nature, in love or pain, or during a moment of overwhelming gratitude and exaltation.
大部分信徒似乎都经历过这类神奇的、意识最为澄明的时刻，由此可见，存在还有一重超越日常生活的维度。这类时刻可能会在分娩、听音乐、亲近大自然、感受爱与痛苦，或者极度喜悦、极度感恩之际降临。
These glimmering experiences are not in themselves faith, but they are the seed of faith. As Wiman writes, “Religion is not made of these moments; religion is the means of making these moments part of your life rather than merely radical intrusions so foreign and perhaps even fearsome that you can’t even acknowledge their existence afterward. Religion is what you do with these moments of over-mastery in your life.”
这些闪着微光的经验并非信仰本身，而是信仰的种子。正如威曼所言，“宗教不是由这些时刻构成的；宗教是把这些时刻融入你生命的方法，而不是让它们以陌生的甚至骇人的方式硬生生地闯入，致使你日后甚至不愿意承认它们存在过。”宗教牵涉到你如何应对人生中这些无法掌控的时刻。
These moments provide an intimation of ethical perfection and merciful love. They arouse a longing within many people to integrate that glimpsed eternal goodness into their practical lives. This longing is faith. It’s not one emotion because it encompasses so many emotions. It’s not one idea because it contains contradictory ideas. It’s a state of motivation, a desire to reunite with that glimpsed moral beauty and incorporate it into everyday living.
这些时刻意味着道德上的完美和仁慈的爱。它们唤醒了许多人内心潜藏的把那瞬间感受到的永恒之善融入现实生活的渴望。这渴望就是信仰。它并非一种激情，因为它包含着太多种激情。它并非一种观念，因为它包含着相互矛盾的观念。它是一种积极的状态，一种想要把瞬间感受到的道德之美重新聚拢，并将它融入日常生活的热望。
It’s a hard process. After the transcendent glimpses, people forget. Their spirits go dry and they doubt anything ever happened. But believers try, as Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel put it, to stay faithful to those events. They assent to some spiritual element they still sense planted in themselves.
其过程非常艰难。短暂进入超然状态之后，人们常常将其遗忘。他们的精神会逐渐干涸，他们会怀疑所有的一切是否发生过。但正如亚伯拉罕·约书亚·赫舍尔(Abraham Joshua Heschel)先生所言，信徒们会对这些经历保持虔诚心。他们会对仍然感受得到的那些根植在他们内心深处的精神元素表示肯定。
The process of faith, of bringing moments of intense inward understanding into the ballyhoo of life, seems to involve a lot of reading and talking — as people try to make sense of who God is and how holiness should be lived out. Even if you tell people you are merely writing a column on faith, they begin recommending books to you by the dozen. Religion may begin with experiences beyond reason, but faith relies on reason.
构筑信仰的过程，也就是把产生深刻内在感悟的时刻融入生活的喧嚣之中的过程，似乎牵涉大量的阅读和讨论——尤其是在人们试图弄清谁是上帝、如何才能活得圣洁的时候。即便告诉别人你只不过在写一篇关于信仰的专栏文章，他们也会为你推荐成打的书籍。宗教或许始于超出理性的经验，但信仰是构筑在理性之上的。
In his famous fourth footnote in “Halakhic Man,” Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik writes, “The individual who frees himself from the rational principle and who casts off the yoke of objective thought will in the end turn destructive and lay waste the entire created order. Therefore, it is preferable that religion should ally itself with the forces of clear, logical cognition, as uniquely exemplified in the scientific method, even though at times the two might clash with one another.”
拉比约瑟夫·索洛韦伊奇克(Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik)在其《犹太法之人》(Halakhic Man)一书著名的第四个补充说明中写道，“那些把自己从理性原则中剥离出来，并抛开客观思维束缚的人，最终会破坏和摧毁被创造出来的整个秩序。所以，宗教最好与清晰而具有逻辑性的认知的力量结合起来——这方面的典型就是独特的科学方法——尽管这两方面有时会发生冲突。
Or as Wiman puts it more elegantly: “Faith cannot save you from the claims of reason, except insofar as it preserves and protects that wonderful, terrible time when reason, if only for a moment, lost its claim on you.”
对于这一点，威曼有个更优雅的说法：“信仰无法让你免受理性控制，只是有时候，它能在理性退去之时——哪怕只有片刻——留存及保护那些或欢乐或糟糕的时光。”
All this discerning and talking leads to the main business of faith: living attentively every day. The faithful are trying to live in ways their creator loves. They are trying to turn moments of spontaneous consciousness into an ethos of strict conscience. They are using effervescent sensations of holiness to inspire concrete habits, moral practices and practical ways of living well.
这些分析和谈话把我们引向信仰的主要观点：认真过好每一天。那些虔诚的信徒试图用信仰创造者所喜爱的方式来生活。他们试图把产生自发意识的时刻变成严格的道德规范。他们用强烈的神圣感，激发了具体习惯、道德准则，以及健康生活的切实方法。