During his years getting started as a film producer, Christopher Chen took a great many meetings. He had his favorite places, like the Griddle Cafe in Hollywood and Nate ’n Al in Beverly Hills. Even if the movie he was pitching never came together, the deli served great corned beef hash.
在刚当上电影制片人的头几年，陈义(Christopher Chen) 参加了很多聚会。他有自己偏爱的聚会地点，比如好莱坞的烤盘咖啡馆(Griddle Cafe)和比弗利山的内特和艾尔餐厅(Nate ’n Al)。尽管他卖力推销的电影一直没能拍成，但至少在熟食柜里有美味的腌牛肉碎。
Then, in late 2009, Mr. Chen received a request unlike any other in his career. The prospective subjects of a documentary wanted him to meet at their church. And they had a question for Mr. Chen in advance of the meeting: Are you a Christian? Which, conveniently, he was.
后来，到了2009年末，陈义收到了职业生涯中一份不同寻常的邀请。几名有可能成为一部纪录片记录对象的人想要与他见面，地点是他们的教堂。在会面之前，他们问了陈义一个问题：你是基督徒吗？而陈义刚好是一名基督徒。
So on a Sunday morning, Mr. Chen found himself worshiping at the Chinese Church in Christ, an evangelical congregation in Mountain View, Calif., part of Silicon Valley. After the service, he sat down with two members named Shirley and Gie-Ming Lin. Their son, Jeremy, was in his senior year at Harvard as a star guard on the basketball team. Mr. Chen wanted to capture him on film.
于是，在一个周日的上午，陈义来到了位于硅谷的加州山景城的一座基督福音派会堂——基督徒会堂(Chinese Church in Christ)参加礼拜。礼拜之后，他与会堂的两名成员——吴信信(Shirley Lin)和林继明(Lin Gie-Ming)坐了下来。他们的儿子林书豪(Jeremy)正在哈佛大学念大四，是校篮球队的明星后卫。陈义想要为他拍一部电影。
Four years later, of course, Jeremy Lin is a brand name and a phenomenon, having burst into fame with the Knicks last year and gone on to a lucrative free-agent contract with the Houston Rockets. Just the other night, he put up 21 points at Madison Square Garden in a victory over his former team.
四年后，没错，林书豪已经是一个家喻户晓的名字，也成了奇迹的代名词。他去年在尼克斯队蹿红，后来又与休斯顿火箭队签下了一份报酬丰厚的自由人合同。就在几天前的晚上，他在麦迪逊广场花园的一场比赛中砍下21分，带领全队击败了昔日的东家。
As for the documentary, “Linsanity” has been shown on the festival circuit and in art houses, and is now moving into the download and DVD part of its cinematic life. At one level, the film is a quintessential saga of sporting triumph, with Lin as the perpetual underdog who defies every doubter and conquers every challenge to achieve his dream.
至于这部纪录片——《林书豪旋风》(Linsanity)，此前在各电影节和艺术院线已经上映过，如今它的电影生命将进入下载和DVD传播阶段。从一个层面来说，这部纪录片是歌颂运动成就的一部英雄传奇，林书豪则是百折不挠的英雄，他颠覆了所有怀疑，征服了全部挑战，最终实现了自己的梦想。
In a deeper way, though, “Linsanity” brings to a mass audience not just an Asian-American sports star, but an Asian-American Christian. The film shows Lin not only tossing in three-pointers and piercing down the lane, but also repeatedly speaking of divine direction, divine intercession, divine will.
不过，从更深层次的意义讲，《林书豪旋风》展示给广大观众的不仅是一位亚裔美国体育明星，更是一位亚裔美国基督徒。在电影中，林书豪不仅能投三分球，带球攻入罚球区，还反复提到了上帝的教导、上帝的代祷和上帝的意志。
“I think God did something supernatural to me,” he says near the film’s end, “something that I couldn’t do on my own. Something that I may never be able to recreate.” Earlier in the documentary, when Lin is on the verge of being cut by the Knicks, his mother offers a prayer: “God, if this is your will for him to play in the N.B.A., you need to show us.” Lin proceeds to score 25 points and rescue his career.
他在电影的结尾处说，“我认为上帝给我带来的一个超自然的东西，靠我自己是做不到的。今后恐怕也再也不会重演了。”在这部电影之前的拍摄中，当林书豪即将被尼克斯裁掉时，他的母亲祈祷：“上帝，如果让他在NBA继续比赛是您的旨意，请告诉我们。”林书豪后来拿下25分，挽救了他的职业生涯。
In the contemporary sports scene, such testimonials are common enough, but they usually come from white or black athletes. When the website Beliefnet ranked the 12 most famous evangelical Christians in sports several years ago, eight were white, three were black and one was Hispanic.
在当代体育界，这样把成就归功于上帝的运动员并不少见，但是他们通常是白人或黑人运动员。Beliefnet网站几年前列出了体育界最著名的12位福音派基督徒，其中八人为白人，三人为黑人，一人为拉美裔。
So “Linsanity” offers a rare window into another part of the American religious landscape: Asian-American Christianity. In addition to its star, several of the film’s creators are active Christians. Their fervent faith typifies a trend for Asian immigrants and their families.
因此，《林书豪旋风》提供了一个了解美国宗教界另一组成部分的难得机会，这个部分就是亚裔美国基督徒。除了主角，影片的几个创作者也都是活跃的基督徒。他们热诚的信仰代表着存在于亚洲移民和他们的家人中的一种趋势。
While Christians form a minority of the population in places like South Korea and Taiwan, they constitute a disproportionate share of the immigrants to the United States from those places, said Peter T. Cha, an ordained minister who is a professor at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Ill. Once in the United States, Asian immigrants and their American-born children use churches as a kind of bridge between old world and new.
坐落在伊利诺伊州迪尔菲尔德市的三一福音神学院(Trinity Evangelical Divinity School)教授、已按立为牧师的彼得·T·查(Peter T. Cha)说，尽管在韩国和台湾等地的人口中基督徒是少数，但在来自这些地区的美国移民中，基督徒的比例格外大。一旦到了美国，亚裔移民和他们出生于美国的子女就把教堂作为一种连接旧世界和新世界的桥梁。
“It’s a very paradoxical combination,” Dr. Cha said in a phone interview. “How does one institution facilitate both maintenance of the ethnicity from the homeland and also the process of adaptation and acculturation into American society? The effectiveness of immigrant congregations is precisely because the same institution provides both roles.”
“这是一个非常矛盾的组合，”查博士在一次电话采访中说。“一个机构如何既帮助人们保持种族特色，同时又帮助他们适应美国社会，融入这个社会？移民教会的好处恰恰在于这一个机构可以同时扮演两种角色。” 
Mr. Chen, one of the producers of “Linsanity,” lived out just such a situation. The grandson of a famous Chinese evangelist, Moses Chow, Mr. Chen was born to parents who had immigrated from China to Taiwan to the East Bay area of Northern California. He grew up attending an evangelical church that conducted services in both Chinese and English.
作为《林书豪旋风》制片人之一的陈义就亲身经历过这样的情况。陈义是中国著名传教士周主培(Moses Chow)的孙子，他父母从中国移民到台湾，再移民到北加州东湾地区。他从小就参加一个兼用中文和英文举行仪式的福音派教会。
All along, as a basketball fan, Mr. Chen had followed Lin’s career, from high school in Palo Alto to Harvard. Once Lin made it to the N.B.A. and consented to be the subject of a documentary, Mr. Chen and the film’s director, Evan Jackson Leong, faced a decision about how to treat the issue of faith.
作为一个篮球迷，陈义从林书豪在帕洛阿尔托读高中起到进入哈佛，一直关注着他的职业生涯。林书豪进入NBA并同意拍一部以自己为主题的纪录片时，陈义和该片的导演梁艾文(Evan Jackson Leong)面临着如何处理宗教信仰的问题。
“We talked about that from Day 1,” said Mr. Chen, 37. “Even during our initial lunch meeting, Jeremy’s parents asked, ‘How do you want to handle the religion part?’ I said then what I say now, which is that you can’t tell Jeremy’s story without addressing his faith. It’s really cornerstone. You can’t ignore it or just brush it aside.”
“我们第一天就谈到了这个问题。”37岁的陈义说。“甚至在我们最早见面一起吃午餐的时候，书豪的父母就问，‘你如何处理宗教部分？’我当时说的话现在也会说，就是：你不谈他的信仰，就无法讲述书豪的故事。那是真正的基石。你不能无视它，不能把它放到一边去。”
Mr. Leong, 34, approached “Linsanity” from two directions. He was a lifelong basketball player himself, and he had plunged deeply into the subject of Christianity in Asia as the director of a 2010 film about it, “1040.”
34岁的梁艾文从两个方面来展开《林书豪旋风》。他自己从小到大都打篮球，而且对基督教在亚洲的活动有很深的了解，他在2010年执导的电影《1040》就是关于这个话题的。
“If Jeremy Lin was a devout Buddhist, we’d have to put that in the documentary,” Mr. Leong said in a recent interview after a pickup game on the Lower East Side. “But because he’s Christian, people think they know it already. They’ve got this attitude of ‘don’t preach to me.’ But if it’s good material, it’s good material.”
“如果书豪是一位虔诚的佛教徒，那我们在纪录片中也要把它体现出来，”梁艾文在最近的一次采访中说，当时他刚在下东城打过了一场临时组队的篮球赛。“但是，由于他是基督徒，人们觉得自己已经知道这件事了。就会有一种‘不要跟我布道’的心态。但好素材就是好素材。”
While he did not grow up in a religious home, Mr. Leong has increasingly explored Christianity in his personal as well as his professional life. So Lin’s unlikely ascent to stardom — not recruited to a major college, not drafted by an N.B.A. team, cut twice in the same season — spoke to him.
梁艾文所在的家庭并不信教，但他在个人生活和职业生涯中正越来越多地探讨基督教教义。因此，林书豪看似不可能的明星路——没有被招到一所主要高校，没有被一支NBA球队签下，在同一赛季中两次被裁掉——让他有所感触。
“You can do everything you possibly can to perfect your game, and train all you can, but there’s still an X factor about who makes it,” he said. “I got to see this miracle. And it is a miracle.”
“你可以尽你所能地提升技能，努力训练，但究竟谁会成功，仍然存在着一个未知因素。”他说。“我得以目睹这个奇迹。它就是一个奇迹。”