CLAYTON, Mo. — A 20-year-old man was charged with first-degree assault in the shooting of two police officers in front of the Ferguson Police Department early Thursday, according to Robert P. McCulloch, the prosecuting attorney for St. Louis County, who announced the charges in Clayton on Sunday.
密苏里州克莱顿——圣路易斯县检察官罗伯特·P·麦卡洛克(Robert P. McCulloch)说，一名20岁男子因周四早上在弗格森警察局门口枪击两名警察而受到一级袭击罪指控。麦卡洛克周日在克莱顿宣布了相关指控。
The man, Jeffrey Williams, acknowledged firing the shots, McCulloch said.
麦卡洛克称，这个名叫杰弗里·威廉姆斯(Jeffrey Williams)的男子已承认开枪。
He said Williams, who is from north St. Louis County, was inside a car “at least for some of the shots.”
他说，“至少有几枪”是来自圣路易斯县北部的威廉姆斯在车内射出的。
The weapon used was a .40-caliber handgun, McCulloch said, and the authorities have recovered it.
麦卡洛克说，他使用的武器是一支.40口径手枪，已经被当局起获。
“It was possible he was firing shots at someone other than the police but struck the police officers,” McCulloch said.
麦卡洛克表示，“他当时可能是想射击其他人，而非警察，但最后却击中了警察。”
Williams was in custody, McCulloch said. He stressed that the investigation was continuing and that additional arrests may be made. The suspect was found through information provided by community members.
麦卡洛克说威廉姆斯已被关押。他还强调，调查仍在继续，当局可能会逮捕更多人。犯罪嫌疑人是通过社区成员提供的信息找到的。
McCulloch said Williams indicated that he had a dispute with some people who were in front of the police headquarters, “which had nothing to do with the demonstrations that were going on.” Williams indicated that he was firing at the people he had the dispute with, the prosecutor said.
麦卡洛克说，威廉姆斯表示自己曾与警察总部门前的一些人发生争执，“而这与正在进行的示威游行没有任何关系”。检方称，威廉姆斯表示自己当时是在向与他发生争议的人开枪。
“He is a demonstrator,” McCulloch said. “He was out there earlier that evening as part of the demonstration. He's been out there on other occasions, part of the demonstrations.” Williams was on probation for receiving stolen goods, McCulloch said.
“他是一名示威者，”麦卡洛克说。“他那天晚上很早就到那里参加示威活动。他曾在其他时候到过那里，参加示威活动。”麦卡洛克表示，威廉姆斯因为接受赃物在服缓刑。
Several protest leaders quickly took to Twitter to say Williams, who is African-American, was not one of them.
几名抗议领袖迅速通过Twitter发布信息，称身为非裔美国人的威廉姆斯不是抗议队伍中的一员。
DeRay McKesson, who has been documenting the protests on social media since they started last summer, posted to his account, “No, I cannot recall ever seeing the suspected shooter, Jeffrey Williams, at any protests, including the night in question.”
自去年夏天抗议活动爆发以来，德雷·麦克森(DeRay McKesson)一直在社交媒体上记录抗议活动。麦克森发帖称，“不，我不记得曾在抗议活动中见过涉嫌开枪的杰弗里·威廉姆斯，包括案发那个晚上。”
The two officers — one from the county police and the other from the nearby Webster Groves department — were standing shoulder to shoulder as part of a protective line facing demonstrators across the street from the police station. At least three gunshots came from a distance behind the demonstrators, as much as 125 yards away, the authorities said.
这两名警官——一名来自县警察局，另一名来自附近的韦伯斯特·格罗夫斯警察局——当时肩并肩地站着，参与组成一条防线，拦截警察局对面的示威者。当局表示，从示威者后方——差不多125码（约合114米）远的地方——至少传来三记枪声。