Donald J. Trump left little doubt on Monday that he intends to run on the same incendiary proposals on immigration and terrorism that animated his primary campaign, using his first speech after the massacre in Orlando, Fla., to propose sweeping measures against Muslims that paid little heed to American traditions of pluralism.
在移民和恐怖主义问题上的煽动性主张推动了唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的初选，现在他将继续坚持这些主张的意图几乎已经毫无悬念：本周一，他发表了佛罗里达州奥兰多大规模枪击案发生后的首次讲话，建议对穆斯林采取一系列打压性的、无视美国多元化传统的措施。
Without distinguishing between mainstream Muslims and Islamist terrorists, Mr. Trump suggested that all Muslim immigrants posed potential threats to America’s security and called for a ban on migrants from any part of the world with “a proven history of terrorism” against the United States or its allies. He also insinuated that American Muslims were all but complicit in acts of domestic terrorism for failing to report attacks in advance, asserting without evidence that they had warnings of shootings like the one in Orlando.
特朗普没有提及主流穆斯林和伊斯兰恐怖分子之间的区别，表示所有穆斯林移民都对美国的安全构成潜在威胁，呼吁禁止那些来自“有据可查存在”针对美国或其盟国“恐怖主义历史”的国家的人移民。他暗示，美国穆斯林如果不事先揭发国内的恐怖主义活动，就几乎属于同谋，毫无证据地声称他们提前就知道奥兰多枪击案这类事情的风声。
Mr. Trump’s speech, delivered at St. Anselm College in Manchester, N.H., represented an extraordinary break from the longstanding rhetorical norms of American presidential nominees. But if his language more closely resembled a European nationalist’s than a mainstream Republican’s, he was wagering that voters are stirred more by their fears of Islamic terrorism than any concerns they may have about his flouting traditions of tolerance and respect for religious diversity.
特朗普在新罕布什尔州曼彻斯特圣安塞姆学院(St. Anselm College)发表的这次演讲，非同寻常地打破了美国总统提名人长期以来的措辞准则。不过，如果说他的言辞更像是欧洲的民族主义者，而不是共和党主流人士，那是因为他断定，相比于对伊斯兰恐怖主义的恐惧，选民不会太担忧他对宽容和尊重宗教多样性传统的蔑视。
Mr. Trump, who drew criticism last fall, including a sharp rebuke from House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, for first suggesting a constitutionally questionable ban on Muslim immigration, on Monday described Islamic extremism as a pervasive global menace that was penetrating the United States through unchecked immigration.
特朗普去年秋天第一次建议禁止穆斯林移民时，招致了众多批评，包括众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)的尖锐驳斥。这种建议在宪法上是站不住脚的。本周一，他把伊斯兰极端主义形容为一种遍及全球的威胁，而且由于对移民不加核查，这种威胁正在渗透进美国。
Citing the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013 by two men with ties to Chechnya and instances of radicalization in Minnesota’s Somali immigrant community, Mr. Trump painted a bleak portrait of the country as under siege from within and abroad.
特朗普描绘了一幅美国遭受内外夹击的惨淡景象，他提到2013年波士顿马拉松爆炸案中两名和车臣有关的作案男子，还提到了明尼苏达州索马里移民社区的激进化现象。
“They’re trying to take over our children and convince them how wonderful ISIS is and how wonderful Islam is,” Mr. Trump said, referring to the Islamic State, also known as ISIL. “And we don’t know what’s happening.”
“他们试图给我们的孩子洗脑，让他们相信ISIS是多么美妙，伊斯兰教有多么美好，”特朗普说。“我们却不知道这样的事正在发生。”伊斯兰国缩写为ISIS，或者ISIL。
He accused American Muslims of failing to “turn in the people who they know are bad,” effectively blaming other Muslims for the shooting in Orlando and the attack last year in San Bernardino, Calif., that was carried out by a married couple inspired by the Islamic State.
他指责美国穆斯林没有“揭发他们知道的坏人”，基本上就是在为奥兰多枪击案和去年的加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺枪击案指责其他穆斯林。去年那起案件是一对夫妇受到伊斯兰国的激发后犯下的。
“They didn’t turn them in,” Mr. Trump said, “and we had death and destruction.”
“他们没有举报这些人，”特朗普说，“于是我们就得到了死亡和毁灭。”
Mr. Trump carefully read his remarks from a teleprompter and offered more detail than his stump speeches generally contain, but his speech was still rife with the sort of misstatements and exaggerations that have typified his campaign.
特朗普小心翼翼地读着提示器上的讲稿，这一次他给出了比平常那些巡回演讲更多的细节，然而其中依然充斥着不实和夸张的说法，而这在他的竞选中司空见惯。
He repeatedly stretched the facts, for example, in describing the United States as overrun by dangerous migrants. He claimed the country has an “immigration system which does not permit us to know who we let into our country,” brushing aside the entire customs and immigration enforcement infrastructure. And he asserted that there was a “tremendous flow” of Syrian refugees, when just 2,805 of them were admitted into the country from October to May, fewer than one-third of the 10,000 Syrians President Obama said the United States would accept this fiscal year.
例如他反复夸大事实，形容美国已经被危险的移民侵占。他宣称国家的“移民制度不允许我们知道，我们都在让什么人进入我们的国家”，视整个海关和移民执法体系如无物。他断言叙利亚难民正“源源不断流入”，可从去年10月到今年5月，总共只有2805人获准进入美国。奥巴马总统曾表示本财年要接收一万名叙利亚难民，现在连三分之一都不到。
Mr. Trump described the gunman in the Orlando shooting as “an Afghan,” though he was born an American citizen in New York City to parents who had emigrated from Afghanistan to the United States over three decades ago.
特朗普称奥兰多枪击案中的枪手是“一个阿富汗人”，然而他是在纽约市出生的美国公民，父母是三十多年前移民到美国的阿富汗人。
Mr. Trump assailed the presumptive Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, by name, accusing her of favoring immigration policies that would invite a flood of potential jihadists to the United States, which he warned could be “a better, bigger, more horrible version than the legendary Trojan Horse ever was.”
特朗普指名道姓地攻击了稳获民主党提名的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，指责她支持移民的政策会导致大量潜在的圣战分子涌入美国，他警告称那将“比传说中的特洛伊木马更厉害、更庞大、更恐怖”。
Mrs. Clinton, speaking in Cleveland earlier in the day, argued that engaging in “inflammatory, anti-Muslim rhetoric” made the country less safe. Delivering the sort of conventional speech that most presidential contenders would offer in the wake of tragedy, she did not mention Mr. Trump by name. But, while saying the “murder of innocent people breaks our hearts, tears at our sense of security and makes us furious,” she described proposals to ban Muslim immigration as offensive and counterproductive.
当天早些时候克林顿在克里夫兰讲话时表示，使用“煽动性的、反穆斯林的言论”对这个国家的安全无益。多数在竞逐总统之位的人，在这个悲剧的时刻都会采取她这样的常规措辞，她在演讲中没有提到特朗普的名字。然而在说到“对无辜者的屠戮令我们心碎，冲击着我们的安全感，让我们怒不可遏”时，她表示有关禁止穆斯林移民的提议是令人反感的，只会起到反效果。
“America is strongest when we all believe we have a stake in our country and our future,” she said, calling to mind the bipartisan spirit that took hold after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, when she was a senator from New York.
她说，“一个人人相信自己是国家与文化一分子的美国，才是最强大的美国，”她希望大家回想两党在2001年9月11日恐怖袭击之后那种同仇敌忾的精神，当时她是来自纽约州的参议员。
Mrs. Clinton has sought to present herself as the default choice of mainstream voters, including Republicans disturbed by Mr. Trump, and on Monday she stressed the importance of building relationships between law enforcement agencies and American Muslims.
克林顿希望把自己塑造成一个主流选民的默认选项，这其中包括那些对特朗普感到不安的共和党人。她在周一强调，执法部门与美国穆斯林建立关系是十分必要的。
“Our open, diverse society is an asset in the struggle against terrorism, not a liability,” Mrs. Clinton said.
“一个开放、多元的社会，是我们对抗恐怖主义的本钱，不是负累，”克林顿说。
As Mrs. Clinton reached for the mantle of statesmanship, Mr. Trump’s speech amounted to a rejection of the conventional wisdom that he must remake himself for the November election as a more sober figure and discard the volcanic tone and ethnic and racial provocation that marked his primary campaign.
克林顿试图担起治国者的职分，而特朗普的演讲则打破了人们的一个普遍看法，即他必须重塑自己，以一个更理智的形象面对11月的大选，摒弃火山喷发般的腔调和对族群、种族问题的撩拨，虽然那些是他在初选中的特点。
Yet Mr. Trump has showed little interest in assuaging those concerns. He used the hours after the Orlando massacre to claim prescience about the attack and to demand Mr. Obama’s resignation. Then, in a television interview on Monday morning, Mr. Trump darkly suggested that the president was sympathetic to Islamic terrorists.
然而特朗普似乎并不打算平息人们的忧虑。在奥兰多惨案发生后几小时里，他宣称自己对袭击早有预见，并要求奥巴马辞职。在周一上午的一次电视采访中，特朗普甚至含沙射影地说总统同情伊斯兰恐怖分子。
“We’re led by a man that either is not tough, not smart, or he’s got something else in mind,” Mr. Trump said. “There is something going on.”
“我们现在这个领袖，要么是不够强硬，要么是不够聪明，要么就是他有别的什么想法，”特朗普说。“感觉这里面有问题。”
Some Republicans said Mr. Trump’s determination to play to his hard-line base was undermining his standing as a general election candidate.
一些共和党人认为，特朗普如此坚持迎合自己的强硬派选民阵营，对他的大选是不利的。
“He has to do what Reagan had to do. Reagan eventually had to make a sale that he was not a risk,” said Thomas M. Davis III, a former Republican congressman, recalling the 1980 election. “There is time, but the way he’s going about it now doesn’t do it at all. It keeps him in the hunt, but it doesn’t get him elected.”
“他必须像里根那样。里根最终让人相信，他不是一个危险人物，”前共和党众议员托马斯·M·戴维斯三世(Thomas M. Davis III)回忆起1980年的选举。“还有时间，但以他现在的样子，他根本没有那么去做。这能让他继续保持竞争力，但他不能靠这样当选。”
John F. Lehman, a former Navy secretary and an adviser to John McCain’s and Mitt Romney’s presidential campaigns, said he anticipated that Mr. Trump’s standing would improve after the Orlando attack.
前海军部长、曾任约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)竞选顾问的约翰·F·莱曼(John F. Lehman)说，他预计特朗普的地位在奥兰多袭击事件之后会有所改善。
But he said Mr. Trump’s Muslim ban went “too far” and questioned whether he had made any effort to learn about national security.
但他说特朗普的禁穆斯林提议“过头了”，他还怀疑特朗普根本没有花时间去了解国家安全。
Mr. Trump’s remarks may come as an acute disappointment to Republican leaders in Washington who have spent the days since he claimed the party’s nomination pleading with him to button down his campaign, only to see him intensify its racial tenor.
特朗普的言论可能让华盛顿的共和党领导层倍感失望。在他宣布获得本党提名后的这些天里，他们一直在劝说他在竞选中有所收敛，结果看到他的种族言论反而更激烈了。
It is enough to convince senior Republicans that talk of an eventual pivot is folly — that he is unwilling or incapable of being reined in.
这已经足以让资深共和党人相信，指望事情最终出现转机是愚蠢的——他没有管住自己的意愿或能力。
“Everybody says, ‘Look, he’s so civilized, he eats with a knife and fork,’” said Mike Murphy, a former top adviser to Jeb Bush. “And then an hour later, he takes the fork and stabs somebody in the eye with it.”
“大家都在说，‘你看他多文明，在用刀叉吃饭呢，’”杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)的前高级顾问迈克·墨菲(Mike Murphy)说。“可过了一个钟头，他就用叉子捅了别人的眼睛。”