SYDNEY, Australia — Helicopters hovered over central Sydney, and Prime Minister Tony Abbott convened a meeting with his security advisers on Monday after an armed individual took hostages in a Sydney cafe and displayed a black flag with Arabic script in white in the window.
澳大利亚悉尼——悉尼市中心上空直升机盘旋，在一名武装人员周一于悉尼一家咖啡馆劫持数名人质、并在窗前展示一面写有白色阿拉伯文的黑色旗帜后，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)与其安全顾问召开了会议。
Police officers surrounded the cafe in the central business district where the hostages were pressed against the window holding the black flag, whose writing appeared to be the shahada, the Muslim declaration of faith. Andrew Scipione, the commissioner of the New South Wales police, said at a news briefing that an unknown number of hostages were being held in the cafe by a single armed person, but that three of the hostages had been released. “We don’t yet know the motivation of the perpetrator — we don’t know whether this is politically motivated — although obviously there are some indications that it could be,” Mr. Abbott said at a short briefing in Canberra, Australia’s capital. “There are people, even in a society such as ours, who would wish to do us harm.”
警察包围了该位于中央商务区的咖啡馆，人质被按在窗前手持旗帜。旗帜上的文字看起来是穆斯林宣誓词清真言。新南威尔士州警察局局长安德鲁·斯皮亚恩(Andrew Scipione)在新闻发布会上说，不明人数的人质被一名武装人员劫持于该咖啡馆内，但人质中有三人已获释。“我们尚不知道袭击者的动机——我们不知道这是否出于政治动机——尽管，很明显，有迹象显示可能如此，”阿博特在澳大利亚首都堪培拉的一场简短的发布会上说。“即使在像我们这样的社会里，也有想要伤害我们的人。”
A police spokesman confirmed officers were called to the Lindt Chocolate Café, in Martin Place, a major shopping and pedestrian thoroughfare, at around 10 a.m.
警方一名发言人证实，警力在早10时左右被调遣到马丁广场(Martin Place)步行街的林特巧克力咖啡馆(Lindt Chocolate Café)。马丁广场是一片主要的购物区。
A commercial television network, Channel Seven, which has a studio near the cafe, showed footage of people, wearing the Lindt uniforms, pressed against the cafe windows, displaying the flag.
商业电视台“七频道”(Channel Seven)播放了穿着林特咖啡馆制服的人员被按在咖啡馆玻璃窗前展示旗帜的画面。该电视台在这家咖啡馆附近有一间演播室。
The police have shut down parts of the city’s transport system, and closed off the mall area. They would not confirm how many people were being held hostage inside the cafe, nor whether those inside are armed.
警方关闭了城市的部分交通系统，也封锁了这片购物区。但警方没有证实咖啡馆内有多少人被挟持为人质，也没有说明咖啡馆内的人员是否携带武器。
Local media reports said that the airspace over Sydney had been closed and the famed Sydney Opera House evacuated. Television images showed heavily armed officers with their weapons trained on the cafe.
当地媒体报道，悉尼上方的空域已被封锁，著名的悉尼歌剧院中的人员被疏散。电视画面显示，多名荷枪实弹的警察将手中的武器瞄准咖啡馆。
“A police operation is underway,” a police spokeswoman said. “It involves both local police and tactical or specialist police commands.” Fire crew and other emergency services have been sent to the central business district and helicopters could be seen and heard flying over the city.
“警方行动正在展开，”警方一名女发言人表示。“既包括地方警察，也包括战术或特种警察部队。”消防队员及其他紧急服务人员也被派往了中央商务区。人们可以看到或听到直升机在城市上空飞行。
Police would not provide further details as the siege unfolded. But live television footage showed shoppers and office workers gathered some distance from the cafe, behind shelters, and television news showed heavily armed police officers in the area.
在包围行动展开之际，警方不愿透露更多细节。不过电视直播画面显示，购物者和办公室职员在离咖啡馆有一定距离的地方聚集，躲在掩体背后，电视画面显示该区域部署了持有重武器的警力。