SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean Army sergeant accused of fleeing his unit on the border with North Korea after killing five fellow soldiers was caught alive with a self-inflicted wound on Monday, ending a manhunt that involved a shootout and shocked the country over the weekend.
韩国首尔——一名被指控在朝韩边境附近打死5名战友后逃离部队的韩国陆军军士周一被活捉，他身上带有自伤，自此，这场周末震惊全国的搜索活动结束。
“He shot himself in the side in an apparent suicide attempt,” said an official at the Ministry of National Defense in Seoul, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the ministry’s policy. “He was taken to a hospital but is alive.”
“他向自己的侧面开了枪，显然企图自杀，”在首尔的韩国国防部(Ministry of National Defense)的一名官员称。“他已经被送进医院，还活着。”这名官员援引国防部的政策要求不具名。
The authorities said that the 22-year-old soldier, who was identified only by his family name, Yim, had earlier fled into the night with his rifle and ammunition after hurling a hand grenade and spraying bullets at fellow soldiers on Saturday evening. Seven were wounded in the shooting rampage but were expected to live, the ministry said.
韩国当局称，这名士兵22岁，只说他姓尹(Yim)，他在周六晚将一颗手榴弹投向战友，并向他们开枪扫射，之后携带步枪和弹药趁夜色逃走。韩国国防部称，有7人在袭击中受伤，但预计没有生命危险。
Nine battalions of troops were mobilized to chase the fugitive soldier. They built roadblocks and evacuated 540 civilians from three villages in the region, where the gunman was believed to be on the loose.
韩国出动了9个营的士兵追捕这个逃兵。他们在这名行凶士兵可能躲藏的地区设置路障，还疏散了附近3个村庄的540名居民。
On Sunday afternoon, he was spotted on a hill six miles from his unit and was quickly surrounded by troops. He wounded an officer in an ensuing shootout. Overnight, a tense and dramatic standoff developed, as his parents, who were taken to the scene by his unit, used a megaphone to urge their son to surrender.
周日下午，有人看到这名士兵出现在距离他所在部队6英里（约9公里）的山中，他很快就被部队包围。在之后发生的枪战中，他打上了一名军官。当天夜间展开了一场紧张而又戏剧性的对峙，他的父母被他的部队带到现场，用喇叭呼喊他们的儿子投降。
The episode highlights the challenge South Korea faces in maintaining a largely conscript military, which is on guard against North Korea. The two Koreas are technically at war after the three-year Korean War was halted in 1953 with a truce and not a peace treaty.
这件事突显了韩国维持一个在很大程度上被征入伍的军队所面临的挑战，军队主要是为了防御朝鲜。历时三年的朝鲜半岛战争于1953年停止时，签署的是停战协议，不是和平协议，因此严格地说韩朝双方仍处于战争状态。
Most of the North’s and South’s armed forces are amassed near their 150-mile-long border. Called the demilitarized zone, the heavily fortified frontier stretches across rugged hills and is guarded by tall wire fences and minefields. Soldiers from the South who are posted there are on constant lookout for infiltrators and are exposed to propaganda broadcasts from the North.
朝韩两国的大部分武装力量都聚集在长约300公里的边界附近。这个被称为非军事区的前线地区戒备森严，该地区穿过起伏的山峦，两侧都布有高高的铁丝网栅和地雷。被派到边界地区的韩国士兵时刻都要保持着对潜入者的高度警戒，他们也经常听到朝鲜的宣传广播。
Serving on the border is considered one of the most grueling duties among South Korean conscripts, especially when tensions run high with North Korea, as they have in recent months, with both nations trading threats of attack and counterattack.
驻守边界被认为是韩国应征士兵最辛苦的职责，尤其是在与朝鲜的关系高度紧张的时候，最近几个月的情况正是这样，平壤和首尔相互威胁要发动袭击、进行反击。
The military screens soldiers for their physical and mental fitness before assigning them to guard posts on the border.
韩国军方在分配士兵去驻守边境之前，要对他们进行身体和精神状态的排查。
Sergeant Yim was ruled unfit in April last year but was cleared for border duty in a second test in November, said the South Korean national news agency Yonhap, quoting an unidentified military source.
韩国国家联合通讯社韩通社援引一位不具名的军方消息人士说，金下士去年4月曾被认为不合格，但在去年11月的第二次检查中却获准执行边界任务。
Kim Min-seok, a spokesman for the Ministry of National Defense, said Sunday that the army was interviewing fellow soldiers in Sergeant Yim’s unit to determine the cause of his rampage.
国防部发言人金珉奭称，军方正在对金下士所在部队的其他士兵进行问询，以确定导致他此次暴行的原因。
The soldier was scheduled to be discharged in September after the mandatory 21 months of service.
该士兵按计划将于9月份服完为期21个月的兵役。
The border shooting shocked South Korea, where many remain traumatized by the sinking of a ferry in April that left more than 300 people dead or missing.
这次边境枪击事件进一步震撼了韩国，韩国的许多人仍沉浸在4月份的轮船翻船事故的痛苦中，那次事故导致300多人死亡或失踪。
In recent years, the South Korean military has come under harsh scrutiny for disciplinary problems. In 2005, a soldier killed eight colleagues in a front-line army unit.
近几年，韩国军队多次因为纪律问题而受到密切关注。2005年，一名士兵曾杀死了一支前线部队的8名战友。
In 2011, a marine corporal bullied by other marines went on a shooting rampage at a base near the tense maritime border with North Korea, killing four fellow marines.
2011年，一名被其他海军士兵欺负的海军兵长在朝韩气氛紧张的海上边界附近的基地开枪，打死了4名战友。
In 2012, a North Korean soldier who had scaled three barbed-wire fences on the border was not detected until he arrived at the South Korean barracks, saying he wanted to defect.
2012年，一名朝鲜士兵翻越了三层设有倒刺的铁丝围栏进入韩国兵营，而没有被发觉，该士兵称，他要叛逃。