ALEXANDRIA, Va. — A lone gunman who was reportedly distraught over President Donald Trump’s election opened fire on Republican members of the congressional baseball team at a practice field in this Washington suburb Wednesday, using a rifle to shower the field with bullets that struck five people, including Rep. Steve Scalise, the majority whip of the House of Representatives.
弗吉尼亚州亚历山大市——周三，一名据称对特朗普总统的当选非常抓狂的独行枪手，在华盛顿郊外的一个练习场上对国会棒球队的共和党成员发起袭击，用一支步枪扫射球场打伤五人，其中包括众议院多数党党鞭史蒂夫·斯卡利塞(Steve Scalise)。
Trump, in a televised statement from the White House, condemned the “very, very brutal assault” and said the gunman had died after a shootout with police. Law enforcement authorities identified him as James T. Hodgkinson, 66, from Belleville, Illinois, a suburb of St. Louis.
特朗普在白宫通过电视讲话谴责了这起“非常、非常残忍的袭击”，称枪手在与警方的枪战中死亡。执法机构称，枪手名为詹姆斯·T·霍奇金森(James T. Hodgkinson)，现年66岁，来自伊利诺州圣路易斯市郊的贝莱维尔(Belleville)。
Two members of Scalise’s Capitol Police security detail were wounded as they exchanged fire with the gunman in what lawmakers described as several chaotic, terror-filled minutes that turned the baseball practice into an early-morning nightmare. One was wounded by gunfire and one suffered other, minor injuries.
斯卡利塞的两名国会警察安保人员在与枪手交火时被打伤，立法者们说那几分钟混乱而恐怖，早间的棒球练习变成了一场噩梦。其中一名安保人员受枪伤，另一人受了其他轻伤。
Standing at second base, Scalise was struck in the hip, according to witnesses, and collapsed as the shots rang out, one after another, from behind a chain-link fence near the third-base dugout. Witnesses said Scalise, of Louisiana, “army crawled” from the infield to the grass as the shooting continued.
目击者表示，斯卡利塞站在第二垒，他的臀部被击中，应声倒地，枪手位于第三垒球员休息处的铁丝网后面，一枪接一枪地开火。目击者还说，在持续的枪声中，来自路易斯安那州的斯卡利塞“用军人的匍匐姿势从内场爬到了草地上”。
Aides to Scalise said he had undergone surgery at MedStar Washington Hospital Center and was in critical condition by midafternoon.
斯卡利塞的助手表示，他已经在梅德思达华盛顿医院中心(MedStar Washington Hospital Center)做了手术，下午3点左右处还处在危急状态。
Local officers arrived minutes after they received desperate calls for help, including from those still under siege at the field, authorities said. The FBI said it would take the lead in the investigation, treating it as an assault on a federal officer.
当地警员在收到绝望的求救电话之后数分钟抵达现场，一些电话来自困在球场的人。联邦调查局表示会牵头进行调查，把该案作为对联邦官员的袭击来处理。
The FBI said Hodgkinson was armed with a handgun and a rifle. Witnesses described a man with white hair and a beard wielding a long gun as he stood behind the dugout.
联邦调查局说，霍奇金森携带了一把手枪和一把步枪。目击者说看见一个白头发、有胡子的男人站在球员席的后面，挥舞着一支长枪。
“He was hunting us at that point,” said Rep. Mike Bishop, R-Mich., who was standing at home plate when the shooting began.
“那个时候他是在猎杀我们，”当时站在本垒的密歇根州共和党众议员迈克·毕晓普(Mike Bishop)说。
Rep. Jeff Duncan of South Carolina, who left the practice just before shooting, said later that he had encountered a man in the parking lot — later identified as the gunman — who “asked me if the team practicing was a Democrat or a Republican team.”
南卡罗来纳州众议员杰夫·邓肯(Jeff Duncan)就在案发之前离开了球场，他表示，在停车场里他遇到一名男子——后来被确定为枪手——他“问我练球的人是民主党人还是共和党人”。
“I told him they were Republicans,” the lawmaker recalled. “He said, ‘OK, thanks,’ turned around.”
“我跟他说是共和党人，”邓肯回忆说。“他说，‘好的，谢谢。’然后转身走了。”
As the magnitude of the incident became apparent, House leaders canceled the day’s votes, and Trump and Vice President Mike Pence both canceled speeches.
随着事件的严重性变得越来越明显，众议院领导人取消了当天的投票，特朗普和副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)也都取消了当天的演讲。