TRIPOLI, Libya — An affiliate of the Islamic State claimed responsibility for an armed assault on a luxury hotel that killed at least five people here on Tuesday, the most significant in a string of terrorist attacks against Western interests and government institutions in the capital since the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi more than three years ago.
利比亚的黎波里——伊斯兰国的一个分支组织声称对这里的一家豪华酒店周二遭受武装袭击承担责任，袭击造成至少五人死亡，这是自从穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)三年多前被推翻以来，利比亚首都发生的针对西方利益和政府机构的一连串恐怖袭击中最严重的一次。
Four or five gunmen stormed the hotel, the Corinthia, in the early morning, firing their guns into the lobby, battling guards, and shooting at least one Filipino woman and possibly other civilians, according to news reports and people in contact with associates inside the hotel.
据新闻报道、以及据与酒店工作人员有接触的人的说法，四名或五名枪手在清晨冲进科林西亚酒店，对着大厅射击，与警卫交火，至少射中了一名菲律宾女子，可能还射中了其他平民。
Fighters wearing black uniforms labeled “police” and loyal to the Tripoli government — one of two rival governments now fighting for control of Libya — responded to the attack, cordoning off streets and surrounding the hotel. Their forces entered a long standoff with assailants still inside.
穿着标有“警察”字样黑色制服、忠于的黎波里政府(这是目前在争夺利比亚控制权的两个敌对政府之一)的武装人员，对袭击作出回应，他们封锁了街道，将酒店包围起来。他们的部队与仍在酒店中的袭击者进入长时间的对峙。
A car exploded in the hotel parking lot, although it was unclear whether the cause was a car bomb, a rocket-propelled grenade or some kind of missile.
一辆汽车在酒店停车场爆炸，但目前还不清楚引发爆炸的原因是汽车炸弹，还是火箭助推榴弹，或是某种导弹。
The hotel, one of the most luxurious in Tripoli, the capital, is a central hub for foreign tourists and businessmen visiting Libya, and it also houses the offices of several foreign embassies. But most foreigners have fled as the country has descended into chaos and armed conflict since last summer. Libyans who do business in the hotel said it was largely empty when the attack began.
这家酒店是首都的黎波里最豪华的之一，是前来利比亚旅行的外国游客和商人的中心枢纽，酒店里还设有几个外国使馆的办事处。但自从去年夏天利比亚陷入武装冲突和混乱以来，大多数外国人已逃离该国。在酒店经商的利比亚人说，这次袭击发生时，酒店基本上是空的。
An unnamed hotel employee told The Associated Press that guests, including British, Italian and Turkish visitors, had fled out the back of the hotel as the attackers entered the lobby. There were initial reports that some of the attackers had taken hostages, but by midday, security officials interviewed on Libyan television said that there were no hostages and that at least two of the attackers had been killed.
一位没有给出姓名的酒店员工告诉美联社记者，包括英国、意大利和土耳其游客在内的客人，在袭击者进入大厅时，已从酒店的后门逃离。早些时候的报道说，一些袭击者劫持了人质，但到了中午，安全官员在接受利比亚电视台采访时说，没有人质被劫，并且有至少两名袭击者被打死。
A group calling itself the Tripoli Province of the Islamic State, the extremist group that has seized territory in Syria and Iraq, issued a statement on social media claiming responsibility for the attack just as it was beginning. The group portrayed the assault as retaliation for the abduction last year by American commandos of a Libyan Qaeda operative, Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, also known as Abu Anas al-Libi.
伊斯兰国(Islamic State)是占领了叙利亚和伊拉克领土的极端组织，一个自称为伊斯兰国的黎波里省的团伙在社交媒体上发表声明，称对袭击事件负责，当时袭击刚刚开始。该团伙称袭击是对去年美国突击队抓获纳齐赫·阿卜杜勒-哈迈德·鲁盖(Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai)的报复，该人是利比亚基地组织领导人，又名阿布·阿纳斯·利比(Abu Anas al-Libi)。
Mr. Ruqai, 50, died this month in a New York hospital of complications from liver surgery as he was waiting to stand trial for a role in Qaeda bombings of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998.
现年50岁的鲁盖本月初因肝脏手术并发症在纽约一家医院逝世，之前他在等待受审，他被指控在基地组织1998年制造的美国驻肯尼亚大使馆及驻坦桑尼亚大使馆的爆炸案中起了作用。
Accompanying a picture of smoke rising from the hotel parking lot, the statement called the attack “an inside operation” by “the heroes of the Caliphate,” and called the hotel a “headquarters that includes diplomatic missions and the crusader security companies.”
该团伙的声明还配有酒店停车场上浓烟升起的图片，声明称袭击是“哈里发英雄”从“内部采取的行动”，并称酒店是“外交使团和十字军保安公司的总部大厦。”
Libya has struggled to build a coherent and functional government to replace the one led by Colonel Qaddafi. Regional and ideological militias have battled for power and territory, often competing to coerce or intimidate the feeble institutions of the transitional government. Last summer, Libya broke into two warring coalitions based on opposite sides of the country.
利比亚一直在努力建立一个有条理、有功能的政府，以取代卡扎菲上校领导的政府。不同区域和不同意识形态的民兵组织在争夺权力和领土，常常争相强迫或恐吓过渡政府的软弱机构。去年夏天，利比亚分裂为以东西两边为基地的两个敌对阵营。
Tripoli has come under the control of a coalition calling itself Libya Dawn, which includes moderate Islamist politicians, extremist Islamist fighters, the powerful militias from the city of Misurata and ethnic Berber groups in the West. Proclaiming its own “government of national salvation,” the Dawn coalition’s government rested its claims to legitimacy on the rump of a disbanded transitional Parliament reconvening in Tripoli.
的黎波里目前在一个自称为利比亚黎明(Libya Dawn)的联盟控制之下，该联盟包括温和派的伊斯兰政客、伊斯兰极端分子、来自城市米苏拉塔的强大民兵组织，以及西部地区的柏柏尔少数民族。黎明联盟宣布成立了自己的“救国政府”，并把政府的合法性寄托在将解散了的过渡议会重新召集到的黎波里之上。