BERLIN — Not far from the Brandenburg Gate, Potsdamer Platz was a no man’s land during the Cold War. Then the Berlin Wall fell, and the German authorities made it a petting zoo for celebrity architecture. The corporate headquarters of Germany’s new global swagger.
柏林——波茨坦广场距离勃兰登堡门不远，冷战期间为无人之境。柏林墙轰然倒塌后，德国当局让这里变成了明星建筑师的游乐场，展现德国酷炫国际新形象的企业总部聚居地。
But the ambitions for Potsdamer Platz, like the hopes and fears about a united Germany, turned out differently. The architecture was not so great. Many companies fled. Berliners and newcomers alike preferred the dingy, more atmospheric quarters of the old former East. “Poor but sexy” became the city slogan.
不过，与统一的德国承载的希望与忧思一样，波茨坦广场代表的雄心也走了样。建筑不怎么出色，企业纷纷逃离。无论是柏林当地人，还是后来者，一致青睐东柏林破破烂烂却更具烟火气的旧街区。“贫穷但性感”成为了柏林的城市口号。
“Twenty-five years ago, there was the expectation that a reunified Berlin would become the economic engine of the new Germany, a great metropolis,” recalled Peter Schneider, a novelist and the author of “Berlin Now.”
“25年前，人们期望重新统一的柏林会成为新德国的经济引擎，一座伟大的都会，”著有《柏林当下》(Berlin Now)的小说家彼得·施耐德(Peter Schneider)回忆道。
“There was even talk of 10 million inhabitants,” he said. “Instead of going up, the population dropped.”
“甚至流传着会有1000万居民的说法，”他说。“结果人口没增长，反而下降了。”
A friend recently took me to where he lived in East Berlin before the wall fell. He still sees the wall in his mind every day, he told me, when he drives across the city. But he could not find where it had blocked off the street just yards from his old apartment. Almost all traces of it are gone now, obliterated in the rush to wipe clean the historical slate.
一位朋友近期带着我去了趟柏林墙倒塌之前他在东部生活的地方。驾车在城里穿梭的时候，他告诉我，自己脑袋里还是会每天浮现柏林墙。然而，他却找不到曾经横亘在离当年的公寓仅几码之遥的墙体所在的确切位置。到了今天，几乎所有的痕迹都消失了，在清零历史的冲动之中灰飞烟灭。
Few Germans thought about preserving significant parts of the wall in 1989, as a cautionary tale. Today, many Berliners regret the haste with which it was demolished and sold in bits and pieces.
1989年时，很少有德国人想过，要保留部分意义重大的柏林墙，用来作为一种警示。如今，对于它被拆毁，其碎片被出售，很多柏林人都感到遗憾。
“It’s horrible, how we deleted it,” lamented Simon Schaefer, who runs Factory, a Berlin incubator for start-ups, recently opened in a refurbished brewery from which East German border guards used to survey a strip of the wall.
“这太可怕了，我们怎么能完全拆掉它，”西蒙·舍费尔(Simon Schaefer)说。他在柏林经营的初创企业孵化器Factory最近在一家翻新后的啤酒厂里开业，东德边防人员曾经在这个啤酒厂对一段柏林墙进行检查。
The absence of the wall is today a handy metaphor for a world whose divisions, religious and cultural, are everywhere and often invisible. At the same time, the wall’s destruction created a new range of urban possibilities. It left vast empty spaces that have turned out to be civic boons in ways politicians and planners 25 years ago did not foresee, just as it freed citizens from the constraints of oppression to explore ambition and opportunity.
如今这个世界上，宗教和文化上的分裂无处不在，而且往往是无形的，柏林墙的消失对这种现象是一个方便的隐喻。与此同时，柏林墙的拆除也为一个新城市开启了种种可能。事实已经证明，它留下空旷的空间给公众带来的福祉，是政界人士和规划者25年前未曾预见到的，正如它解除了束缚公众的制约，让他们可以抓住机遇，施展抱负。
The emptiness attracted a new generation. It provided space to dream up clubs in bunkers, galleries in old department stores. Berlin was unfinished, like this generation, which pioneered ad hoc, improvisatory, piecemeal development.
这种空旷吸引了新一代人。它提供了空间，让人们可以在掩体里开俱乐部，在老旧的百货公司里开画廊。柏林尚未定型，就像这一代人，他们是临时、即兴、零碎式发展的先锋。
For some of the same reasons that big corporations fled the city — inept government, lack of infrastructure, Detroit-size debts and “the fact that there still isn’t a Whole Foods where you can choose six different types of bananas,” as Mr. Schaefer half-jokingly put it — Berlin suited a post-wall, urban-minded, D.I.Y. generation.
大企业逃离这座城市的部分原因——政府无能，基础设施缺乏，债务规模庞大，以及就像舍费尔半开玩笑地说的那样，“这里仍然没有全食超市(Whole Foods)，让你可以选择六种不同类型的香蕉”——也正是为什么柏林对后柏林墙时代的、有城市意识的、凡事靠自己的一代人是合适的。
Two distinct Germanys during the Cold War have yielded not to what leaders in the Western political class feared after reunification but to a single, fuzzier, more reticent nation in a world that has become not safer and flatter — as the fall of the wall promised — but more violent, tribal, fractured and unpredictable.
冷战期间两个迥然不同的德国统一之后，并未出现西方政界领导人担心的情况，而是形成了一个单一的、模糊的、更加沉默寡言的国家，而它所处的世界没有变得更安全、更扁平——柏林墙的倒塌曾让人产生这样的希冀——而是出现了更多暴力、藩篱和裂痕，变得更加不可预测。
“We imagined the world would become a better place,” recounted Jens Reich, a scientist and former civil rights leader in East Germany, as he sipped coffee on a recent afternoon in a cafe on Unter den Linden, the boulevard in the former East Berlin that has become a tourist showpiece of the reunited city.
“我们想象这个世界会变得更加美好”，不久前的一个下午，科学家、前东德民权运动领袖延斯·赖希(Jens Reich)在菩提树下大街(Unter den Linden)喝着咖啡说道。该大街原属东柏林，如今在这座统一的城市中，它成了一块吸引游客的招牌。
“During those first years after the wall came down, the city was gloomy, industries were dying, communities dying,” Mr. Reich said. “Many Berliners fled to the suburbs. The elderly left. But then, unexpectedly, young people started moving into neighborhoods like mine, Prenzlauer Berg in the former East, and now children of those who left want to come back, except they can’t afford the rents because all the foreigners are driving prices up.”
“在柏林墙被推倒后的第一年，整个城市气氛阴沉，各行各业在死亡线上挣扎，社区奄奄一息，”赖希说。“很多柏林人逃往郊区。老人离开了。但是，出乎意料的是，年轻人开始进入一些社区，比如我所在的普伦茨劳贝格，原来属于东德。那些离开了的人，他们的孩子现在回来了，除非是付不起房租。这些外来人口推高了房租。”
“Of course Berlin is wonderful, and as Berliners, we should be content with how things turned out,” he added. “But the dreams I nourished back then were very different. I shared the hope of Vaclav Havel and Milan Kundera,” he said, referring to the Czech writers. “I imagined a rejuvenated Central Europe, restored to its former glory. That dream didn’t materialize.”
“当然，柏林是美好的，作为柏林人，我们应该满足于这样的情况发展，”他说。“但我当年怀揣的梦想与此迥然不同。我的希望和哈维尔和昆德拉的相同：让中欧重新焕发活力，恢复其昔日的辉煌。这个梦想并未实现。”他说。哈维尔和昆德拉是两位捷克作家。
It vanished, like the wall, among the most audacious works of modern architecture. For decades, the wall made concrete a world divided by dueling superpowers. When it came down, a new order promised freedom and unity. The notorious phrase became “the end of history.”
那个梦想，和柏林墙一样，消失在现代建筑史上最大胆的作品之中。数十年来，柏林墙都是一个缩影，体现了超级大国的争锋给世界带来的分裂。当它倒下时，新的秩序承诺给世界带来自由和团结。当时的流行语是“历史的终结”。
Except that it wasn’t, of course. In Iraq, Catalonia, Scotland, Quebec and even California, independence movements worked to break states apart. More walls than ever, real and virtual, went up: firewalls and walls built of ethnicity, religiosity, sect. Freedom gave way to fears about vast population shifts, waves of new immigration, and security and digital surveillance, which was also hardly imaginable in the days when the Stasi’s monitoring of East German phone calls was the state of the art in spying.
当然，那并不是历史的终结。在伊拉克、加泰罗尼亚、苏格兰、魁北克，甚至加州，立志要分裂国家的独立运动此起彼伏。柏林墙变得比以往任何时候都更多，无论它们是现实的还是虚拟的：无论是防火墙，还是种族、宗教、教派修筑的墙。自由被人们的担忧所淹没，因为大量人口的流动、新的移民浪潮，以及安全和数字化监控让人们忧心忡忡；当世界一流的间谍技术是东德秘密警察斯塔西(Stasi)的电话监听时，数字化监控是无法想象的事情。
Globalization, which promised to make the world smaller, only accelerated the desire of millions of people to distinguish themselves, via language, culture, race or politics. From Berlin to Cairo to Kiev, revolutions uncorked civic urges and potent forces in the human spirit not easily anticipated or channeled, and difficult to bottle back up.
全球化承诺要让世界变得更小，但它反而激发了无数人的愿望：他们想通过语言、文化、种族或政治，与其他人区分开来。从柏林到开罗，再到基辅，革命把公众的强烈冲动以及人类精神中的强大力量从瓶中释放出来，这些力量不容易预期或疏导，而且也难以再次封入瓶中。
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine hoped to become a single, unified nation, but it failed to overcome the abiding differences between its Ukrainian and Russian identities, which now tear the country apart with help from neighboring Russia. Those forces that made the world more volatile are impossible to confine by a strip of concrete.
苏联解体后，乌克兰希望成为一个完整统一的国家，但它未能克服其乌克兰身份和俄罗斯身份之间无休止的分歧，因此在邻国俄罗斯的推动下，乌克兰如今已经陷入分裂。构成世界的力量变得更加不稳定，而且已经不可能被一堵混凝土墙所遏制。