BERLIN — Investigators undertook a Europe-wide manhunt on Wednesday for a young Tunisian ex-convict with multiple aliases who had been denied asylum in Germany and was considered a security risk, linking him to a deadly truck rampage through a Berlin Christmas market.
柏林——调查人员周三对一名年轻的突尼斯人发起全欧通缉，将他与柏林一个圣诞集市上发生的致命卡车冲撞事件联系起来。此人有多个化名，曾有犯罪前科，德国之前已经拒绝了其避难要求，并认定他是可能危害国家安全的危险人物。
The attack on Monday killed 12 people and wounded 48 — 12 of them seriously. The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the assault, one of Germany’s deadliest acts of terrorism in decades. The aftermath has been complicated by a botched search for the driver, who has remained at large.
周一发生的那场袭击导致12人死亡，48人受伤——其中有12人伤势严重。伊斯兰国(The Islamic State)宣称对这次袭击负责，这是德国几十年里遭遇的伤亡最大的恐怖袭击。事件后续因为一团糟的追捕行动而变得更加复杂。那名司机依然在逃。
The revelations added to the growing pressure confronting Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who decided last year to open the country’s border to roughly a million migrants and refugees.
新的发现加重了德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)面临的日益增长的压力。她在去年做出决定，开放德国边境，接收了大约100万名移民和难民。
A European arrest warrant identified the Tunisian as Anis Amri, 23, and said he had a history of providing false names and nationalities and should be considered armed and dangerous. German news agencies reported that the man had ties to Abu Walaa, a 32-year-old Iraqi Salafist arrested in Germany last month and accused of recruiting would-be jihadists to fight for the Islamic State. A reward of 100,000 euros, or about $104,000, was offered for information leading to his arrest.
一份欧洲通缉令显示这名突尼斯人是23岁的阿尼斯·阿姆里(Anis Amri)，并指出他曾使用假名和假国籍身份，应该视其携有武器、非常危险。据德国通讯社报道，这名男子与上月在德国被捕的32岁伊拉克萨拉菲派(Salafist)穆斯林阿布·瓦洛(Abu Walaa)有联系，后者被指控招募想成为圣战分子的人，为伊斯兰国效力。警方提供了10万欧元（约合72万人民币）的赏金，奖励提供信息让警方找到阿尼斯的人。
It was not clear if the Tunisian was the actual driver. But the furious effort by the authorities to find someone who only months earlier faced deportation was outrageous, said Stephan Mayer, the home affairs spokesman for the conservative parliamentary bloc that includes Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union.
目前还不清楚他是否就是驾车撞人的司机。但包括默克尔的基督教民主联盟(Christian Democratic Union)在内的保守派议会党团的内政发言人斯特凡·迈尔(Stephan Mayer)表示，当局得费这么大劲寻找一个仅数月前还面临驱逐出境的人，令人无法接受。
The German interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, confirmed that a manhunt was underway but would not get into specifics. “Success counts, and not speed or speculation,” he told reporters in Berlin.
德国内政部长托马斯·德梅齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)确认正在进行搜捕，但不愿谈论细节信息。“重要的是取得成功，而不是速度或猜测，”他在柏林对记者讲道。
Mr. Amri was recorded as having entered Italy in 2012, according to German news accounts. He traveled to Germany in July 2015 and applied for asylum in April this year, receiving papers that allowed him to stay in the country temporarily. He lived for a time in housing designated for asylum seekers in the city of Emmerich am Rhein, in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state, and in Berlin.
据德国新闻机构报道，有记录显示，阿姆里于2012年进入了意大利。他在2015年7月进入德国，今年4月申请避难，接到了允许他在这个国家暂时停留的文件。之后他在莱茵河畔的埃梅里希市(Emmerich am Rhein)和柏林为寻求避难者指派的住处住了一段时间，前者位于德国人口最多的北莱茵-威斯特伐利亚州(North Rhine-Westphalia)。
At a news conference in Düsseldorf, Ralf Jäger, the interior minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, said that federal prosecutors had been observing the Tunisian man — he did not use Mr. Amri’s name — on suspicion that he might have been plotting an attack. When the man moved to Berlin in February, state authorities there picked up the monitoring.
在杜塞尔多夫(Düsseldorf)举行的一场新闻发布会上，北莱茵-威斯特伐利亚州内政部长拉尔夫·雅格(Ralf Jäger)表示，联邦检察官一直在监视那名突尼斯人——他没有提到阿姆里的名字——怀疑他可能在策划一场袭击。当这名男子在今年2月来柏林时，那里的州政府接过了监视的任务。
The man was to have been deported in June, Mr. Jäger said. But because he did not have a valid passport, and because Tunisia did not initially acknowledge that he was a citizen, it was not possible to send him home. (Only on Wednesday did the Tunisian authorities issue a passport, he said.)
拉尔夫·雅格表示，这名男子本该在今年6月遣返。但因为他没有有效护照——突尼斯一开始不承认他的公民身份——德国政府无法将他遣送回国（他说直到周三，突尼斯当局才签发了护照）。
Mr. Mayer, the lawmaker, said the Tunisian man had spent a day in custody pending deportation, but because the authorities were unable to establish his identity “beyond doubt,” he was released. “This is a person who apparently was known to be potentially dangerous and who apparently was to be deported,” Mr. Mayer said.
议员迈尔表示，在等待遣返期间，这名突尼斯男子被监禁了一天，但因为当局无法“确定无疑地”确定其身份，所以他又被释放了。“这是一个显然被认为具有潜在危险，而且显然将要被遣返的人，”迈尔说。
In August, Mr. Amri was arrested in the southern city of Friedrichshafen with a fake Italian document and released a short while later, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a continuing investigation.
据一位要求匿名谈论这项正在进行的调查的执法官员透露，今年8月，阿姆里因携带伪造的意大利身份文件，在德国南部城市弗里德里希斯哈芬(Friedrichshafen)被捕，但不久便被释放。
An identity document found in a wallet left on the floor of the truck led the German authorities to seek the Tunisian man, said Frank Tempel of the Left Party. The document showed that the suspect had been allowed to remain in Germany but that he had not been granted full asylum.
左派党(Left Party)的弗兰克·滕佩尔(Frank Tempel)表示，在留在卡车地板上的一个钱包里发现的身份文件，促使德国当局搜捕这名突尼斯人。文件显示，这名嫌犯或许留在德国，但没有被给予完整的庇护权。
Several of the men involved in the terrorist attacks in Paris in November 2015, in Brussels in March and in Nice in July were of Tunisian origin, but the number of Tunisians in Germany is low.
2015年11月巴黎、3月布鲁塞尔，以及7月尼斯的恐怖袭击参与者中，有好几个都来自突尼斯，但在德国居住的突尼斯人很少。 
Mr. Amri is believed to come from the impoverished south of Tunisia, on the edge of the Sahara. His father told a Tunisian radio station, Mosaïque FM, that his son left Tunisia about seven years ago and served four years in prison in Italy after he was accused of setting fire to a school. The son was sentenced in absentia in Tunisia to five years in prison for violent robbery, the radio station reported.
阿姆里据信来自贫穷的突尼斯南部地区，那里位于撒哈拉沙漠边缘。他的父亲告诉突尼斯的穆赛克调频电台(Mosaïque FM)，他的儿子大约在七年前离开了突尼斯，之后在意大利被指控纵火烧毁一所学校，而入狱四年。据这家电台报道，他在突尼斯因暴力抢劫在未出庭的情况下被判处五年徒刑。 
Tunisians make up one of the largest groups of foreign fighters in Syria and Libya and have held leadership roles in the Islamic State. Tunisian security officials say the militants have been active in recruiting young volunteers in Tunisia and have links to immigrant networks in Europe.
在叙利亚和利比亚，突尼斯人是最大的国外武装人员群体之一，在伊斯兰国中占据多个领导职位。突尼斯安全官员表示，这些激进分子在突尼斯积极招募年轻志愿者，还与欧洲的移民网络有联系。 
A prominent Tunisian commander in the Islamic State, Boubaker al-Hakim, who was wanted in connection with terrorist attacks in Tunisia and was linked to the January 2015 attack on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris, was reported killed last month in a drone strike in Raqqa, Syria.
据称，伊斯兰国的知名突尼斯指挥官布贝克尔·阿尔-哈基姆(Boubaker al-Hakim)上月在叙利亚拉卡遭到的无人机袭击中丧生。此前，他因为与突尼斯发生的多起恐怖袭击有关而被通缉，还被认为与2015年1月针对巴黎讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的恐怖袭击有联系。
According to the newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, the Tunisian man being sought in Germany had lived in the city of Dortmund with a man named Boban S., who has been arrested and accused of involvement with the Islamic State.
据《南德意志报》(Süddeutsche Zeitung)报道，德国正在搜捕的这名突尼斯人曾与名为博班·S(Boban S)的男子在多特蒙德市生活过，后者已被逮捕，并被指控与伊斯兰国有关联。
Boban S., in turn, is reported to have connections with Abu Walaa, the Iraqi who is known as “the man with no face,” because he often preached in Arabic and in poor German, with his back to the camera. The authorities arrested Abu Walaa on Nov. 8.
据称，博班·S(Boban S)也与伊拉克人阿布·瓦洛有联系，后者被称为“无脸人”，因为他经常在阿拉伯人和贫穷的德国人中传教，背对着镜头。当局在11月8日逮捕了阿布·瓦洛。
Abu Walaa, who has also been identified by officials as Ahmed Abdulaziz A., made his base in Hildesheim, a city of 100,000 south of Hanover, where he drew an increasingly devoted following and even offered his own app in 2014.
官员们确认阿布·瓦洛的真实身份是艾哈迈德·阿卜杜勒阿齐兹·A.(Ahmed Abdulaziz A.)，他将汉诺威南部、人口10万的城市希尔德斯海姆(Hildesheim)变成了自己的基地，在那里吸引了一批日益忠诚的追随者，甚至在2014年推出了自己的应用。
He was charged with recruiting terrorists and openly supporting the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
他被控招募恐怖分子，公开支持伊斯兰国(亦称ISIS或ISIL)。 
Officials emphasized that they were not yet certain that the Tunisian man had carried out the attack, and officials cautioned against jumping to conclusions. On Tuesday, the authorities arrested a 23-year-old Pakistani man who had applied for asylum in Germany, but they released him hours later, citing a lack of evidence.
官员强调他们还不确定是否就是这名突尼斯男子实施了那场袭击，并警告外界不可妄下结论。周二，当局逮捕了一名在德国寻求避难的23岁巴基斯坦男子，但几小时后便释放了他，原因是缺乏证据。