BERLIN — German officials Tuesday released the chief suspect in the gruesome terrorist attack against a Christmas market in Berlin, launching a nationwide search for an attacker that the Islamic State claimed had acted on the terror group’s behalf.
柏林——德国官员周二释放了柏林圣诞集市重大袭击案的头号嫌疑人，并在全国范围发起了搜索攻击者的行动。伊斯兰国(Islamic State)声称此人是代表该恐怖组织开展这次袭击的。
Early in the day, the authorities announced that they had the arrested a 23-year-old Pakistani asylum seeker who arrived in Germany last December as a suspect. By evening, the federal prosecutor said the man had been released because there was no proof linking him to the crime.
当天早些时候，当局宣布逮捕了一名23岁的巴基斯坦嫌疑人，他于去年12月抵达德国寻求庇护。到晚上，联邦检察官说，因为缺乏证据，此人已经获释。
That meant the culprit was still on the run and far-right politicians wasted no time in pinning responsibility for the deaths on Chancellor Angela Merkel.
这意味着凶手仍然在逃，极右翼政治人士立即把这起伤亡事件归咎于总理默克尔。
The Islamic State released a statement Tuesday through its Amaq news agency describing the driver of the truck as “a soldier” who had answered the call to wage attacks against countries fighting the group. But it offered no other details about the driver’s identity or whether he had directly interacted with the group or was just sympathetic to it.
伊斯兰国本周二通过其“阿玛克新闻社”(Amaq)发表声明，称驾驶该卡车的是“一名斗士”，他响应号召，打击与该组织作对的国家。但伊斯兰国没有提供关于此人身份的其他细节，或者他是否直接与该组织有往来，还是只是它的同情者。
The attack in Berlin, which killed 12 people and wounded many others, immediately heightened the sense of political vulnerability around Merkel, a linchpin of European unity. And it came at a precarious time of concern about Russian meddling and a populist backlash over her decision to open German borders to nearly a million migrants and refugees in 2015.
柏林这次袭击造成12人死亡，多人受伤，它顿时加剧了笼罩在默克尔身上的政治脆弱感，她是欧洲维持统一的一个关键人物。而且此时本来就已经有人担忧俄罗斯插手干预，以及她在2015年开放德国边界接纳近100万移民和难民的决定引发民粹主义反弹。
Her political opposition issued a surprisingly speedy and stinging reproach. The Berlin victims were labeled “Merkel’s dead” by Marcus Pretzell, leader of the Alternative for Germany party in the country’s most populous state, North Rhine Westphalia. Frauke Petry, the party leader, said bluntly, “Germany is no longer safe.”
她的政敌以惊人的反应速度对她进行了猛烈指责。德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany)在该国人口最多的州——北莱茵-威斯特伐利亚州的领袖马库斯·普雷泽尔(Marcus Pretzell)称，柏林事件的受害者是“默克尔的冤魂”。该党领导人弗劳克·佩特(Frauke Petry)直指“德国已不再安全”。
Daniela Schwarzer, leader of the German Council on Foreign Relations, said that the statements offered a taste of the bitter debate to come in 2017.
德国外交关系协会领导人丹尼尔·施瓦泽(Daniela Schwarzer)说，这些声明让人看到了即将到来的2017年大选辩论之激烈。
“They were very quick to link this directly to Merkel, and they said horrific things, blaming her for the deaths,” Schwarzer said.
“他们很快就把此事直接和默克尔联系起来，说了一些很可怕的话，把死亡怪罪到她的头上，”施瓦泽说。
“That gives us a sense of what is coming in the electoral campaign,” she said, adding that after an especially nasty presidential campaign in the United States, German politicians, too, may abandon traditional decorum.
“这让我们看到竞选活动将会是什么样子。”她说，在美国进行了一场特别不堪的总统竞选之后，德国政治人士也可能放弃传统礼仪。