CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — The opening of the Berlin Wall, 25 years ago this Sunday, marked a surprisingly joyous end to a conflict that could have erupted into thermonuclear combat. In the decades since, many Americans have come to believe that the wall fell thanks to President Ronald Reagan’s direct, personal intervention. In a 1987 speech in front of the Brandenburg Gate in a divided Berlin, he told Soviet leaders to “tear down this wall” — and so, we’ve been told, they did.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——25年前的这个周日，柏林墙的开放标志着冷战令人惊讶的欢乐结局，那场冲突曾有演变为核武器战争的可能。那以后的几十年来，许多美国人开始相信，柏林墙的倒塌是因为罗纳德·里根总统个人的直接干预。1987年，在分裂的柏林的勃兰登堡门前演讲时，他对苏联领导人说，“推倒这座墙。”我们被告知，因此，他们就那么做了。
This misreading of the actual fall of the wall is, at best, incomplete; at worst, it’s dangerous, contributing to the belief that American leaders can go “from Berlin to Baghdad,” shaping world events while ignoring the complex realities of the locals.
这种对柏林墙倒塌实际情况的误读，从最好的角度来看是不完整；从最坏的角度来看则是危险的，因为它让人们产生一种信念：即美国的领导人可以“从柏林到巴格达”，无视当地的复杂现实，一手塑造世界事务。
In truth, the opening of the Berlin Wall on the night of Nov. 9, 1989, was not planned. Well into that year, East Germany remained nearly inescapable: The last killing by a guard at the wall occurred in February 1989; the last shooting, a very near miss, in April; the last death during an escape attempt on the larger East German border, only 10 days earlier.
事实上，柏林墙在1989年11月9日夜里的开放，不是按照计划进行的。在那年的大多数时间，东德保持着其几乎不可逃避的现实存在：柏林墙下最后的一个警卫枪杀人事件发生在1989年2月；最后一次开枪射击发生在4月份，只是差了一点没有打中；最后一次因试图逃越东德边境的其他部分而被射杀的事件发生在距柏林墙倒塌仅仅10天之前。
So what happened to make this heavily armed border open literally overnight? The answer lies in a series of mistakes by East German officials. These errors threw off dangerous sparks into the tense atmosphere of autumn 1989, already supercharged by the conflict between the rise of an East German resistance movement and the collapse of the ruling regime.
那么，到底发生了什么，让这个重兵把守的边界在一夜之间变得畅通无阻呢？答案可以在东德官员的一连串失误中找到。这些错误给1989年秋天的紧张气氛添加了危险的导火索，东德抵抗运动的兴起与崩溃政权之间的冲突已经让当时的气氛充满了火药味。
It was the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev who had opened the door to these events. In his four years in power, he had introduced a series of social and political reforms across Soviet-controlled Eastern Europe — but to enhance his Communist Party’s control, not end it.
是苏联领导人米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫拉开了这些事件的序幕。在四年的执政期间，他在苏联控制的东欧推出了一系列社会和政治改革措施，为的是加强共产党的统制，而不是结束之。
These reforms put the hard-line dictators in East Germany in a bind. They felt they had to make some sort of concession, too. Politburo members in East Berlin decided to make minor changes to the state’s draconian travel rules — but to retain their power to deny travel permission on a whim.
这些改革让东德的强硬独裁者们进退两难。他们觉得，他们也不得不做出某种让步。东柏林的政治局成员决定稍微修改该国严格的旅行规定，仍保留他们可以随意拒绝旅行许可的权力。
The announcement of this pseudo-reform, at an international news conference televised on the night of Nov. 9, was botched. The bumbling Politburo member running the conference, Günter Schabowski, read the news release for the first time on air. Much of his reading was garbled, but a few phrases popped out: that trips abroad would be “possible for every citizen,” starting “right away, immediately.” Shorn of their context, these phrases mistakenly gave journalists and TV viewers the impression that the wall was open.
当局在11月9日晚上一个电视直播的国际新闻发布会上宣布这个虚假的改革方案时表现糟糕。常马虎出错的政治局委员君特·沙博夫斯基(Günter Schabowski)在摄像头前第一次宣读新闻发布，之前没有看过稿件。他的宣读错误百出，但有几个短语人们听得很清楚：出国旅行对“每个公民都将成为可能”，而且“很快、马上”开始。脱离了上下文，这些短语给记者和电视机前的观众一个错误印象：柏林墙的大门敞开了。
But his error need not have been fatal. Politburo members making mistakes was nothing new, and the bottom line had not changed: The regime’s armed sentries still stood at the wall, with orders to keep the gates closed.
但他的错误本来不一定会致命。政治局委员们犯错误不是什么新鲜事，而且他们的要旨并没有改变：该政权的武装岗哨仍在墙上执行保持大门关闭的命令。
What had changed was the self-assurance of the people. By autumn 1989, the protest movement had gained sufficient confidence to take advantage of this incompetence. The people already knew the authorities would back down: A month earlier, peaceful protesters in Leipzig had turned out in such overwhelming numbers that the security forces had backed off.
发生了变化的是人民的自信。抗议运动到1989年秋天的时候，已经取得了足够的信心来利用政府的这种无能。人民已经知道当局会退缩：一个月前，参加莱比锡和平示威的人数如此庞大，安全部队不得不退下。
And they knew they could trust each other. Stasi interrogators had once asked a prisoner named Katrin Hattenhauer, a young rebel, how she and her fellow dissidents held together despite all of the Stasi’s actions against them. She replied that shared suffering welded people together more strongly than shared success: “Where the hammer has come down, whatever is underneath is going to hold together.”
而且，人民知道他们可以相互信任。东德秘密警察斯塔西的审讯人员曾经询问一名叫卡特琳·哈藤豪尔(Katrin Hattenhauer)的年轻反叛者，她和与自己一样持不同政见的同事们，是怎样不顾斯塔西针对他们的行动而保持团结的。她回答说，共同的苦难把人们凝聚在一起的力量比共同的成功更强大：“凡是锤子锤下来时，无论下面是什么，都会更紧地联在一起。”
In contrast, Stasi files demonstrate how members of the regime did not trust their colleagues, or their subordinates — and that this lack of trust gravely undermined their ability to blunt the rising revolution. And so, when tens of thousands of Berliners headed toward the wall in the minutes after the news conference, the entire system cracked.
相比之下，斯塔西的档案显示了政权的成员如何不信任自己的同事，或自己的下属，这种信任的缺失严重损害了他们抵御革命浪潮的能力。所以，当数万的柏林人在新闻发布会后几分钟涌向柏林墙时，整个体系瓦解了。
When one of the regime’s most loyal subordinates, a Stasi officer named Harald Jäger who was working the Nov. 9 night shift at a crucial checkpoint in the Berlin Wall, repeatedly phoned his superiors with accurate reports of swelling crowds, they did not trust or believe him. They called him a delusional coward. Insulted, furious and frightened, he decided to let the crowds out, starting a chain reaction that swept across all of the checkpoints that night.
东德政权最忠实的下属之一、一位名叫哈拉尔德·耶格尔(Harald Jäger)的斯塔西官员11月9日夜间在柏林墙的一个关键检查站值班，他多次打电话给自己的上司，准确地报告不断增长的人群，他们不信任他，或不相信他的报告。他们称他是有自我错觉的胆小鬼。他受了侮辱，感到十分气愤，也十分害怕，于是决定对人群放行，启动了当晚横扫所有检查站的连锁反应。
In short, the fall of the wall came about because of the complex interplay among Soviet reforms, East Berlin’s incompetence and, crucially, rising opposition from everyday Germans. As another dissident, Marianne Birthler, puts it, Westerners believe that “it was the opening of the wall that brought us our freedom.” Rather, “it was the other way around. First we fought for our freedom; and then, because of that, the wall fell.”
简言之，柏林墙的倒塌是几个因素的复杂相互作用的结果，有苏联的改革，也有东柏林的无能，而关键是东德老百姓日益增长的反抗。正如另一位持不同政见者玛丽安·勃特勒尔(Mariane Birthler)所说的那样，西方人认为，“打开柏林墙让我们获得了自己的自由。”其实不然，“正好相反。首先是我们争取自己的自由；然后，因为我们争取自由，柏林墙倒塌了。”