BERLIN — A truck driver plowed into a crowded Christmas market late Monday on a city square in central Berlin, killing at least twelve people and injuring 50 others, in what the police said they believed was an attack.
柏林——周一晚上，一名卡车司机驾车闯入柏林市中心一座城市广场上一个拥挤的圣诞集市，至少造成12人丧生，50人受伤，警方称他们认为这是一次袭击事件。
German media reported that the truck driver jumped the sidewalk around wooden stands at the market, which was set up around the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, whose jagged spire, a reminder of the bombings during World War II, is one of the most symbolic sites in Berlin. It sits between two main streets that run through the heart of West Berlin.
德国媒体报道，这名卡车司机冲撞了威廉皇帝纪念教堂(Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church)附近集市上的木制摊档。该教堂是柏林最具象征意义的景点之一，其残破的尖顶是对二战轰炸的提醒。教堂坐落在两条穿过西柏林中心的主要街道之间。
Local media reported that the driver fled the scene. Later, Berlin police said they had arrested a man near the Christmas market, but they were not immediately able to confirm whether he was the driver. The police also said a passenger was found dead in the cab of the truck.
当地媒体报道，司机逃离了现场。后来柏林警方说，他们在圣诞集市附近逮捕了一个人，但不能立即确认他是否就是那名司机。警方还说在卡车驾驶室里发现了一名死者。
Firefighters at the site could be seen surrounding the trailer of the truck, parked on the square at the base of the tower of the church. Emergency vehicles surrounded the square and the police asked people to stay at home.
可以看到卡车正停在教堂边的广场上，当地的消防队员围在卡车的拖车旁。急救车辆包围了广场，警察要求人们留在家里。
Wooden boards were scattered on the ground as though the truck had driven straight into one of the small stands that sells sweets, sausages, Christmas decorations, jewelry, crafts and small gifts.
木板散落在地上，仿佛卡车直接驶入了其中一个卖糖果、香肠、圣诞装饰品、珠宝、工艺品和小礼物的小摊档。
The episode immediately evoked memories of the attack last July in Nice, France, when a truck driver ran over and killed more than 80 people during Bastille Day celebrations.
这一事件立即唤起了人们对法国尼斯袭击案的回忆，当时有人开着卡车闯入巴士底日庆祝活动的人群，造成逾80人丧生。
Though that carnage came in the midst of a series of terrorist attacks linked to jihadists in France, it was never clear if the Islamic State or other Islamist groups were connected to the driver, who had a long history of disturbed and violent behavior.
虽然当时法国发生了一系列与圣战分子有关的恐怖主义袭击，但尚不清楚那名司机是否与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)或其他伊斯兰极端组织有联系，他长期以来一直有情绪困扰和暴力行为的记录。
The mayor of Berlin, Michael Müller, rushed to the market. “It’s terrible to see this scene,” he said. “It’s exactly what we did not want to see in Berlin.”
柏林市长米夏埃尔·穆勒(Michael Müller)迅速赶到集市。“看到这个场景太可怕了，”他说。“这正是我们不希望在柏林看到的。”
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she was in contact with her interior minister and Mr. Müller. “We mourn the dead and hope the many injured can be helped,” her spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said on Twitter.
总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)称她与内政部长和穆勒保持着联系。她的发言人斯特芬·塞贝特(Steffen Seibert)在Twitter上说，“我们为死者哀悼，希望伤者能得到帮助。”
The interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, said he was immediately alerted after the episode and expressed his condolences to the families of the victims. “I am in direct contact with security officials in Berlin and have asked for support from the federal police.”
内政部长托马斯·德梅齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)说，事情发生后他立即收到了通知，他也向受害者的家属表示了慰问。“我与柏林的安全官员保持着直接联系，已经要求联邦警察提供支援。”
Federal prosecutors have taken over the investigation.
联邦检察官已接手调查。
Germany has not seen a large-scale terror attack, such as the ones earlier this year in Brussels and Nice, but authorities have said that the country remains on alert after smaller attacks this year, including a suicide bombing in Bavaria, which authorities said was linked to the Islamic State.
今年早些时候在布鲁塞尔和尼斯发生的那种大规模恐怖袭击，德国之前还没有发生过，但当局表示，该国今年在发生过一些较小的攻击后仍然保持着警惕，包括在巴伐利亚发生的自杀性爆炸事件，当局说它与伊斯兰国有联系。
Christmas markets are a beloved German tradition. They open on the first Sunday in advent and attract thousands of visitors throughout the month of December until Christmas Eve.
在德国，圣诞集市是一个备受喜爱的传统，通常在将临期第一个周日开放，一直持续到圣诞节前夕，在整个12月份，圣诞集市可以吸引成千上万的人前来。
Redwan Emhemed, 17, was at a shopping mall across the street from the market just before the attack. He said he saw the truck come down the street and barrel into the stands about 15 yards away from the church.
袭击发生前，17岁的雷德万·艾姆哈默德(Redwan Emhemed)在集市街对面的一个购物中心。他说看到卡车从街上冲来，撞到距离教堂约15码（约合13米）的摊档。