Remember when Al Gore took on H. Ross Perot? It was November 1993. Mr. Gore deployed his smoothest scorn to swat down the cantankerous billionaire’s argument that the North American Free Trade Agreement would produce a “great sucking sound” of jobs flowing to Mexico. The agreement, Mr. Gore said, would become an engine of American prosperity.
还记得阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)和H·罗斯·佩罗(H. Ross Perot)之间的那次较量吗？在1993年11月，戈尔对这位脾气暴躁的亿万富翁展开了他轻车熟路的抨击。佩罗认为，《北美自由贸易协定》(North American Free Trade Agreement)会让大量的就业机会“嗖地一声”流向墨西哥，而戈尔称此项协定会有力地推动美国的经济繁荣。
What struck me was not how Mr. Gore won the debate — he did — but rather how his arguments often intertwined the prosperity of the American middle class with the lot of the world’s poor.
这场辩论之所以让我感触良多，不是因为戈尔如何赢得的这场辩论（他的确赢了），而是他在论证中经常将美国中产阶级的福祉与世界上穷人的福祉混为一谈。    
Twenty years later, it is astonishing how our understanding of globalization has changed. Mexico? American jobs went to China instead.
20年后的今天，我们对于全球化的理解发生了翻天覆地的变化。墨西哥？美国的就业岗位实际上流向了中国。
More important, two decades worth of trade deals, including Nafta and China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, did not live up to Mr. Gore’s implicit promise that globalization would improve the living standards of most American workers. Instead, globalization is now often perceived as a leading driver of rampant inequality and wage stagnation.
更重要的是，尽管贸易协定实行了20年，包括北美自贸区，也包括中国也加入世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)，但戈尔所暗示的许诺，即全球化会改善多数美国工薪阶层的生活水平，其实并没有实现。与之相反，全球化现在被看做是不平等横生和薪酬增长停滞的主要原因。
But what globalization did achieve was to greatly improve the lot of hundreds of millions of people in China and other corners of Asia. The lopsided results have opened a rift between the experience of global capitalism between the developed world and many poor countries.
但全球化的确起到一些作用，它改善了中国和亚洲其他地区亿万民众的生活水准。这样不平衡的结果，使发达国家和许多穷国对全球资本主义的感受产生了分歧。
Branko Milanovic, an expert on global development who was formerly at the World Bank and who is now at the City University of New York’s Graduate Center, puts it succinctly. From a global perspective, two decades of globalization have produced what “seems like a fairly benign outcome.” If you look at the world as a single nation, income inequality has, in fact, declined. Income in the middle has grown faster than at the top.
布兰科·米拉诺维奇(Branko Milanovic)是国际发展方面的专家，他曾在世界银行(World Bank)工作，现在供职于纽约城市大学(City University of New York)研究生院。他简洁地提出了他的观点，从全球的角度来说，20年来全球化的历程产生了“看起来还算不错的结果”。如果你将全世界看成一个国家的话，收入不平等事实上是减轻了，中等阶层的收入增长速度比最富有的那些人更快。
What’s happened is that while income growth stalled for middle-class workers in developed countries and surged for people in the 1 percent, it also grew sharply for hundreds of millions of workers in China, India and other Asian countries. In the late 1980s, for instance, workers in the middle of China’s urban income distribution made 56 percent of the median American income, according to Mr. Milanovic’s calculations. By 2008, that figure rose to 71 percent.
发达国家中产阶级的收入增长停滞不前，而最富有的1%人，收入却大幅提升。与此同时，中国、印度和亚洲其他国家亿万工薪阶层的收入也急剧增长。根据米拉诺维奇的算法，上世纪80年代后期，中国城市中等收入阶层的收入水平，相当于美国收入中位数的56%，到2008年，这个比例已经提高到了71%。
This is astonishing progress. And although incomes of workers in the developed world didn’t rise much as the Asian poor moved up the ladder, they didn’t fall either: Globalization lifted all boats.
这是一个惊人的进步。尽管发达国家工薪阶层的收入没有像亚洲贫困国家一样快速增长，但他们的收入也没有减少：全球化使所有人都受惠。
The new pessimism in the developed world is perhaps best captured by the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, who in 1997, as chief economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, likened workers displaced by trade agreements to blacksmiths displaced by cars, asking, “Are we going to say we’re not going to allow the automobile?” By Saturday, his views had changed. The old idea that winners from trade would compensate losers is based on many assumptions “which are simply wrong,” he wrote in The New York Times. Most Americans, are “on the wrong side of globalization.”
最能体现发达国家这种新的悲观情绪的，恐怕是诺贝尔奖得主约瑟夫·斯蒂格利茨(Joseph Stiglitz)。1997年，在担任比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统的首席经济顾问时，他将签订贸易协定后失去工作的工人，比作汽车发明后失业的铁匠。斯蒂格利茨问道，“所以我们就应该不允许生产汽车吗？”但在周六，他的观点转变了。原来的观念是在贸易协定中受惠的一方会补偿受损的一方，但这基于很多前提条件，而这些前提条件“完全是错的”，他在《纽约时报》上这样写道。大多数美国人“在全球化中，都处在了不利的一边”。
But as Dani Rodrik of the Institute for Advanced Study put it to me: “If you were an ethical cosmopolitan you’d say ‘To hell, what do I care?’ The world has become less unequal and has experienced a lot of poverty reduction.”
就像高等研究院(Institute for Advanced Study)的丹尼·罗德里克(Dani Rodrik)对我说的：“如果你认同普世主义的观念，你可能会说，‘管他呢，我担心什么？’世界变得更加平等，也大幅消减了贫困。”
There are, however, powerful reasons to worry about this pattern of global development. “If there are hundreds of millions of people that were in abject poverty one generation ago and are not anymore, that is an important and positive thing,” said Damon Silvers, policy director at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. “But I don’t think we should accept radical inequality as a necessary corollary of equal development.”
但是，仍然有充分的理由担心这种全球发展的模式。“如果说数亿人在二三十年以前还处于赤贫之中，而现在他们脱离了贫困，这就是一件既重要又正面的事，”劳联-产联(AFL-CIO)的政策主管戴蒙·西尔弗斯(Damon Silvers)说。“可是，如果平等发展的必然后果是极端的不平等，那我想我们不应当接受。”
And indeed, the equalization of incomes between countries has been accompanied by growing income inequality within most nations, rich or poor. With wages growing more slowly than productivity, workers from China to Germany have been taking a dwindling share of the economic pie.
的确，各国之间的收入趋于平等的同时，无论穷国还是富国，国家内部的收入不平等都加剧了。由于工资提升的速度落后于生产率的提升，所以中国和德国工薪阶层的收入在各自经济蛋糕中所占的份额均越来越少。
“On the one hand you have people moving from extreme poverty to a little better than poverty,” said Ben Davis, director of International Affairs for the United Steelworkers union. “But at the same time you have the world’s income distribution becoming more skewed from workers to billionaires.” This pattern of global development is unlikely to be stable.
“一方面，有人从极端贫困的状态，提升到了略好于赤贫的状态，”美国钢铁工人联合会(United Steelworkers)的国际事务总监本·戴维斯(Ben Davis)说。“但是与此同时，全世界的收入分配也变得更加扭曲，不利于工人，有利于亿万富翁。”这样的全球发展模式很难稳定维持。
The economic catch-up by Asia’s developing countries over the last 20 years relied on a wave of global prosperity that is unlikely to be repeated.
亚洲发展中国家在过去20年中的经济赶超，依赖的是一波全球繁荣的浪潮，但这一波繁荣不大可能重现。
Exporting powerhouses were allowed to build up vast trade surpluses, while consumers in the United States used cheap foreign capital to maintain their standard of living on easy credit. Commodity exporters relied on a commodity boom. Poorer European countries relied on capital inflows set off by the euro.
出口大国借此机会积累了巨额的贸易顺差，而美国消费者则利用廉价的外国资本，在宽松的信贷环境下维持着生活水准。大宗商品出口国赶上了大宗商品繁荣的机遇，较为贫穷的欧洲国家则因欧元促成的资本流入而受益。
“There was a lot of unsustainability building into the system, but for two decades everybody was doing relatively well,” Mr. Rodrik said.
罗德里克说，“整个系统中累积了很多不可持续的因素，然而在过去20年里，相对而言所有人的境况都还不错。”
Many developing countries probably hope the pattern will continue. “If you see China as the first wave of very cheap labor, after China you have other countries like India, and after that Bangladesh and countries in Africa,” Mr. Milanovic said. “You could have, say, 20 to 50 years of stagnation of the lower middle class in the West.”
许多发展中国家可能会希望这种模式能持续下去。“如果把中国看成是超廉价劳动力的第一拨浪潮，那么中国之后还有其他国家，比如印度，之后还有孟加拉国，再之后还有非洲国家，”米拉诺维奇说。“这么说来，西方的下层中产阶级就会再面临20至50年的停滞。”
But in the new world of lower growth and higher unemployment, the United States and other rich nations are unlikely to tolerate similar imbalances. The question is what will happen as countries push back against export-led growth strategies, as commodity prices fall and capital flows fail to recover to their former scale.
然而在增长放缓、失业率升高的新世界，美国等富国可能无法容忍类似的不均衡状态。现在的问题是，如果各国开始反击出口导向型的增长策略，随着大宗商品价格下跌、资本流动无法回到过去的规模，又会发生怎样的情况？
Mr. Rodrik says he believes a relatively benign though less globalized future is attainable, one in which progressive taxes finance more robust safety nets and macroeconomic policies are geared to maximize employment. Trade may not grow as much as it has and capital flows may moderate, but economies will remain relatively open.
罗德里克说，他认为可以实现一种相对良性、但全球化程度略低的未来，届时要靠累进税制提供更可靠的社会保障，同时调整宏观经济政策以求最大限度地促进就业。贸易增长可能不会像过去一样快，资本流动也可能会放缓，但各经济体仍将维持相对开放的状态。