Destiny Moreno, who is 17, drove to a Sally Beauty Supply near her Seattle home last September with a newly hatched plan. She peppered a grandmotherly employee with questions about hair bleaches, developers and dyes, and the woman asked matter-of-factly if she were coloring her hair.
17岁的黛斯特尼·莫雷诺(Destiny Moreno)住在西雅图，去年9月，她有了个新主意，于是开车来到离家不远的莎莉美容院。她找了个祖母般模样的店员，问了一大堆有关头发的漂白、护理和上色方面的问题，店员自然而然地问她，是不是想染发。
“I was like, ‘Oh, I’m dyeing my armpit hair,’ ” Ms. Moreno said. “She stared at me shellshocked for five seconds, and then she started laughing and was laughing throughout the entire interaction.”
“我说，‘啊，我想染腋毛，’”莫雷诺说。“然后她就大惊失色地盯了我五秒钟，然后大笑起来，整个过程中一直在笑。”
She settled on Voodoo Blue by Manic Panic, and the next day posted a video on YouTube in which she wears a tank top and proudly raises her arms to show turquoise-colored armpit hair. The video has had more than 264,000 views. After she stopped shaving her underarms a few months before, Ms. Moreno drew plenty of negative comments, and dyeing her armpits bright colors — she has since also gone with hot pink, purple, green, neon yellow and orange — has been something of an act of defiance.
最后她染了Manic Panic牌的“巫毒蓝”，第二天又在YouTube上贴出一段视频，视频中她穿着无袖背心，骄傲地高举双臂，展示自己蓝绿色的腋毛。这段视频被浏览了26.4万多次。之前莫雷诺已经有几个月没有修剪腋毛了，为此招来了不少批评，于是她把腋毛染成亮色以示反抗——之前她还染过艳粉色、紫色、绿色、荧光黄和橙色。
“Nobody questions when a guy wearing a tank top does a selfie that shows his armpit hair,” she said. “But if I happen to show my armpit hair in a selfie, it’s like, ‘Whoa, feminist witch asking for attention.’ ”
“男人穿背心自拍露腋毛没有人会管，”她说。“但如果我在自拍里露腋毛，肯定会有人说，‘哇，女权主义巫婆又来求关注’。”
The Internet, it turns out, is up to its armpits with women who dye theirs. Miley Cyrus displayed her newly pink underarms in a photo she posted to Instagram on May 1, drawing more than 396,000 likes and more than 30,000 comments. On Instagram, more than 700 photos of women (and a handful of men) have been posted with the hashtag #dyedpits. And a blog post by Roxie Hunt, a Seattle hairstylist, “How to Dye Your Armpit Hair,” has been shared more than 37,000 times since it was published in October.
网络上似乎很支持那些染腋毛的女人们。5月1日，麦莉·赛勒斯(Miley Cyrus)在Instagram上展示了她刚刚染成粉色的腋毛，照片获得了39.6万次“喜欢”和3万多个评论。在Instagram上，有700多张女人的照片（也有少数几张男人的照片）带有“染腋毛”(#dyedpits)标签。西雅图发型师罗克西·亨特(Roxie Hunt)去年10月发表博客文章，题为“怎样染腋毛”，迄今被分享了3.7万多次。
Five years ago, Ms. Hunt, 31, stopped shaving her underarms, which these days are pink (Cleo Rose by Manic Panic). She is a founder of Free Your Pits, a website that celebrates growing and dyeing. “Our goal,” write Ms. Hunt and Rain Sissel, the site’s other founder, in what they call a manifesto, “is to use this demonstration of personal choice and expression to help broaden and challenge the standard of ‘beauty’ in a society that already places way too many harmful standards on women.”
五年前，亨特女士不再修剪腋毛，如今她把腋毛染成了粉红色（用的是Manic Panic牌的“克利奥玫瑰”色）。她是鼓励留腋毛和染腋毛的“解放腋窝”(Free Your Pits)网站的创始人。她和另一位创始人瑞恩·西塞尔(Rain Sissel)一道发表了一份宣言，“我们的目标是通过这种方式展示个人选择和表达，帮助人们拓宽和挑战关于‘美’的标准，而这个社会已经为女性的美树立了太多有害的标准。”
At “pit-ins” in Seattle and Pensacola, Fla., groups have assembled for dyeing sessions. And through Vain, the feminist-leaning salon in Seattle where she works, Ms. Hunt also offers the service for $65.
在西雅图和佛罗里达的彭萨科拉，“支持腋毛”的团体们组织起来染腋毛。亨特在女权主义学习沙龙Vain工作，通过该沙龙，她提供65美元一次的优惠价。
“One woman came in to get them done because she was going on a family vacation and wanted to freak out her in-laws,” Ms. Hunt said.
“一个女人来染腋毛，是因为她全家要去度假，她想吓唬那些姻亲们，”亨特说。
Racheal Bennett, 20, who lives in Ottawa, and is studying to become a hairstylist, stopped shaving her underarms when she was about 15. Last December, she posted an instructional video to YouTube in which she dyes her armpits with the color Virgin Rose by Special Effects.
20岁的蕾切尔·班尼特(Racheal Bennett)现居渥太华，正在学习成为发型师，她15岁便开始不再剃腋毛。去年12月，她在YouTube上发表一段教学视频，其中她用Special Effects牌的“童贞玫瑰”色染了自己的腋毛。
“I do it because it looks cool,” she said in an interview. “And because I think that people should be able to do what they please, and feel beautiful regardless of what they do.”
“我这么做是因为觉得看上去很酷，”她在采访中说。“也因为我觉得人们应该做喜欢做的事，不管做什么都觉得自己很漂亮。”
Not everyone shares her enthusiasm. “My parents think I’m crazy,” Ms. Bennett said. “They’ve accepted it, but my dad is still very much grossed out.”
并不是所有人都感染了她的热情。“爸爸妈妈觉得我疯了，”班尼特说，“他们能接受，但爸爸还是觉得恶心。”
Breanne Fahs, associate professor of women and gender studies at Arizona State University, published an article last year about a study she conducted of 62 women who stopped shaving their armpits and legs for 10 weeks, and who kept journals about the frequently negative reactions from romantic interests, friends and family. She welcomes the dyeing trend.
布里尼·法斯(Breanne Fahs)是亚利桑那州立大学女性与性别研究的副教授，去年她发表了一篇文章，研究了62个女人，她们持续10周不修剪腋毛和腿毛，并持续写文章记录来自恋爱对象、朋友与家庭对此的负面看法。法斯赞赏这股染腋毛风潮。
“Probably most women don’t say, ‘I’m dyeing my armpit hair as a direct act of political resistance,’ ” Dr. Fahs said. “But nevertheless it becomes that, because it really highlights the presence of the hair and the presence of this otherwise sort of silent or erased aspect of women’s bodies.”
“或许大多数女人不会说，‘我染腋毛是一种直接的政治反抗行为，’”法斯博士说，“但不管怎样，它就是一种反抗，因为它强调了腋毛的存在，呈现了女人身体上这个沉默的、被抹去的部位。”
Snooky Bellomo, who with her sister Tish founded the Manic Panic brand when both were ensconced in the East Village punk scene in the 1970s, is delighted that it is a favorite among pit-dyers.
斯努基·贝洛莫(Snooky Bellomo)和姊妹蒂什(Tish)创立了Manic Panic品牌，两人都曾是70年代东村朋克场景中的成员，看到自己的品牌受到染腋毛爱好者们的青睐，她们非常高兴。
“What a woman decides to do with her own body and her own hair is her own business,” she said. “We love defiance, and we love flying in the face of beauty standards.”
“女人想对自己的身体和毛发做什么，那是她们自己的事，”斯努基·贝洛莫说。“我们喜欢挑衅，我们喜欢公然挑战‘美’的标准。”
Because underarms can be sensitive, do-it-yourselfers tend to use 20-volume peroxide to strip the color rather than the stronger 30- or 40-volume that many use on their heads. And to avoid discoloring skin, dyers recommend smearing petroleum jelly along the perimeter.
因为腋窝是很敏感的部位，自助染腋毛只需要使用20个单位的漂白剂来脱色，而染发则需要30到40个单位。为避免皮肤褪色，专家推荐在腋毛周围的皮肤上涂抹凡士林油。
On Alyssa Bishop, 38, Manic Panic After Midnight, a deep blue, is arrayed like bodies of water on a map. She dyes her shoulder-blade-length hair, eyebrows, armpit hair and below the belt. Ms. Bishop, who lives on Vancouver Island in British Columbia and works in a commercial greenhouse, said her underarms in particular function as a litmus test.
38岁的艾莉莎·毕肖普使用Manic Panic牌的“午夜之后”，这是一种深蓝色，把她的毛发染得好像地图上的水域。把自己的齐肩长发、眉毛、腋窝和私处的头发都染成这种颜色。毕肖普现居不列颠哥伦比亚省的温哥华岛，在一家商业温室工作，她说染腋毛特别有检验作用。
“If people don’t think that my blue armpit hair is funny, then they probably aren’t worth my time,” she said. “It’s really great for turning off people who aren’t accepting.”
“如果人们不觉得我的蓝色腋毛很有意思，那他们就不值得我花时间交往，”她说。“这对于拒绝不受欢迎的人特别有效。”
And, it turns out, for keeping herself amused.
而且这也能帮她自己开心。
“When I see myself naked in the mirror, I laugh every time,” she said, “because I think it’s hilarious and kind of awesome.”
“每当裸体照镜子的时候，我都会大笑起来，”她说，“因为我觉得这太好玩了，简直棒极了。”