HONG KONG — Military police officers fired Friday on protesters demanding higher wages for Cambodian garment workers, killing at least three people, officials said, as antigovernment protests against the decades-old rule of Prime Minister Hun Sen entered a volatile new phase.
香港——据官方消息，武装警察周五向抗议者开枪，打死至少3人，抗议者要求增加柬埔寨制衣工人的工资，抵制首相洪森(Hun Sen)几十年统治的反政府抗议活动进入了一个动荡的新阶段。
The garment workers are demanding a doubling of their monthly wages, and they have been at the forefront of growing protests against Mr. Hun Sen’s authoritarian government. On Sunday, tens of thousands of people rallied to demand that Mr. Hun Sen step down.
这些制衣工人要求将他们的月工资增加一倍，他们在不断增长的反对洪森独裁政府的抗议活动中一直处于最前方。上周日，数万人举行了抗议活动要求洪森下台。
But Friday’s violence south of Phnom Penh, the capital, marked a sharp escalation in the unrest. Protesters resisted police efforts to break up the demonstrations, and some threw homemade explosives, setting fire to vehicles, and pelted officers with rocks and other projectiles. As the street battles raged, the police fired live ammunition and smoke canisters to try to quell the disturbances.
然而，周五发生在首都金边南部的暴力事件标志着动荡局势的突然升级。抗议者抵制了警方解散示威活动的努力，一些人投掷了自制爆炸物，导致车辆起火，还有人向警察扔石头和其他投掷物。随着街头混战加剧，警方开了火，发射了实弹和烟雾催泪弹，试图平息骚乱。
Another large opposition rally is planned for Sunday, one that aims again to turn out tens of thousands of people to force an end to Mr. Hun Sen’s rule. In July, Mr. Hun Sen’s party claimed victory in disputed elections that the opposition and many independent monitoring organizations said were deeply flawed.
另一场更大规模的反对派示威活动计划在周日举行，目标仍是吸引数万人参加，再次迫使洪森下台。去年7月，洪森所在党派在有争议的选举中获胜，反对党以及许多独立观察机构称那次选举有严重问题。
The week of protests represents a surprisingly robust threat to the rule of Mr. Hun Sen, whose party tightly controls the police, the military, the judiciary and much of the news media.
这周的抗议活动对洪森的统治来说是一次令人吃惊的强大威胁，洪森所在党派牢牢地控制着警察、军队、司法以及大部分新闻媒体。
Chuon Narin, deputy chief of the Phnom Penh Municipal Police, told The Associated Press that the three people who were killed in Friday’s violence died when police officers in a southern suburb of the capital fired AK-47 automatic rifles to clear a road that had been blocked by protesters who were burning tires and throwing objects.
金边市警察局副局长尊纳林(Chuon Narin)对美联社(The Associated Press)说，在周五的暴力冲突中有3人被打死，当时警方在首都南部郊区用AK-47自动步枪开火，为的是要疏通被抗议者堵塞的道路，抗议者们在焚烧轮胎和投掷物体。
“So far, three are confirmed dead, two injured and two men were arrested by armed forces,” the deputy police chief said after the morning clash.
这名副局长在早上的冲突发生后说，“到目前为止，已确认有3人死亡，2人受伤，2人被武装警察逮捕。”
Some of the protesters were armed with cleavers and machetes, and at one point they set fire to a health clinic that demonstrators said refused to treat the injured.
一些抗议者持有剁肉刀和大砍刀，他们还放火烧了一家医疗诊所，抗议者称这家诊所拒绝帮助受伤者。
One of the people who was shot, Ha Srey Oeun, 28, a garment worker, said she had not been taking part in the protests “because I’m four months pregnant and I was afraid I would be beaten up or struck.”
一位中弹者的是28岁的制衣工人何斯雷翁(Ha Srey Oeun)，她说，她并没有参加抗议活动，“因为我怀孕4个月了，我害怕被人打或被枪击。”
“I just went to buy some food for lunch,” said Ms. Srey Oeun “I don’t know why I got shot. I was very far away from the protest group.”
斯雷翁说，“我只是去买午餐。我不知道自己怎么会被击中。我离抗议人群很远。”
Local hospital officials said that at least 23 people were injured in the unrest.
当地医院负责人说，至少有23人在冲突中受伤。
Because of the violence, the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party withdrew on Friday from planned talks with the government that were aimed at trying to resolve the crisis. In pulling out of the talks, the group cited the violence against both the garment workers and monks taking part in the protests.
由于暴力事件的发生，反对党柬埔寨救国党(CambodiaNational Rescue Party)在周五取消了计划中的与政府的谈判，谈判是为了消解该国的政治危机。反对党称取消谈判的原因是发生了针对制衣工人和参与抗议的僧侣的暴力事件。
“We condemn the act of violence against the monks, against the workers who are demanding the minimum wage of $160,” Yim Sovann, an incoming C.N.R.P. lawmaker, told the Phnom Penh Post. The garment workers currently receive a minimum monthly wage of $80.
当选为国会议员的柬埔寨救国党人伊姆·索万(Yim Sovann)对《金边邮报》(Phnom Penh Post)说，“我们谴责针对僧侣和工人的暴力，工人们要求把最低工资提高到160美元（约合970元人民币）。”目前制衣工人的月工资为80美元。
Friday’s violence was an outgrowth of protests that began Thursday night, and police officers began moving in after midnight, only to be repelled by the demonstrators. The violent turn in the protests - and forceful police response - has raised fears that the situation would spin out of control in the runup to Sunday’s planned demonstration.
周五的暴力事件是周四晚开始的抗议活动延伸的结果，警察在午夜后开始采取行动，但遭到抗议者的抵御。这种由抗议转为暴力的情况、以及警察的强力回应已经引起担忧，人们担心计划在周日举行的抗议活动到来之前，局势会失去控制。
The violence came as the capital has been rattled by labor unrest in recent days, with labor leaders calling a national strike last week because of anger over the government’s latest minimum wage proposal. The garment industry is Cambodia’s largest source of export earnings, and the labor movement to increase wages in the sector is closely aligned with the political opposition to Mr. Hun Sen’s government, providing a deep well of people to turn out for the demonstrations.
这次暴力事件发生时，正值最近几天金边市不断爆发工人罢工浪潮之际，由于不满政府最近的最低工资提案，工人领袖上周呼吁举行全国大罢工。服装行业是柬埔寨出口收入的最主要来源，该行业要求增加工资的劳工运动与抵制洪森政府的政治反对派紧密联合，为抗议活动提供了源源不断的人员。