PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — Seeking to quash one of the most serious challenges to the nearly 30-year rule of the country’s authoritarian leader, the Cambodian authorities have banned all public gatherings and summoned two opposition leaders for police questioning.
柬埔寨金边——为了平息统治柬埔寨近30年的威权领袖所面临的最严峻挑战之一，柬埔寨当局禁止任何公开集会活动，并传唤两名反对派领袖接受警方问讯。
After months of inaction in the face of growing public dissent to his rule, Prime Minister Hun Sen appeared to signal that he was entering a more aggressive posture toward his critics. The crackdown, including the clearing of protesters from a public square on Saturday, came after a clash on Friday between protesting garment workers and the Cambodian police that left at least four demonstrators dead. The workers have been at the forefront of growing protests against Mr. Hun Sen’s government.
此前数月，面对公众对自己的统治日益加深的不满，柬埔寨首相洪森(Hun Sen)一直未采取什么行动。如今，他似乎发出了信号，表明他开始对批评者采取更强硬的姿态。这一次的镇压行动包括周六驱散一个公共广场上的抗议者。镇压行动开始之前，举行抗议的制衣工人于周五与柬埔寨警方发生冲突，导致至少四名示威者死亡。针对洪森政府的抗议日渐增多，工人一直站在这些抗议的最前列。
Mr. Hun Sen’s party claimed victory in July elections, which the opposition and independent observers say were riddled with irregularities. Since then, the opposition has called for him to step down and has boycotted Parliament.
洪森领导的政党在7月的选举中取得了胜利，但反对派和独立观察人士称那次选举充斥着违规现象。自那时起，反对派一直要求洪森下台，并拒绝加入议会。
The two opposition leaders wanted for questioning, Sam Rainsy and Kem Sokha, said Sunday that they were suspending any protest activity. Mr. Sam Rainsy decried what he called a “facade of democracy” in the country.
周日，接到讯问传唤的反对派领袖桑兰西(Sam Rainsy)和根索卡(Kem Sokha)表示，他们打算暂停一切抗议活动。桑兰西对他所称的柬埔寨“民主假象”表示了谴责。
Late last month, the opposition staged a protest march of tens of thousands of people through the streets of Phnom Penh, an act of defiance on a scale rarely seen during Mr. Hun Sen’s more than 28 years in power.
上月末，反对派在金边街头举行了一场有数万人参加的抗议游行。洪森在位的逾28年时间里，如此规模的挑衅行为十分罕见。
Many parts of Phnom Penh were unaffected by the crackdown, including the main tourist area along the Mekong River. But elsewhere, hundreds of police officers and soldiers blocked roads, broke up crowds of bystanders and cordoned off the public square, known as Freedom Park, where the protesters had been gathering.
金边的许多地方，包括湄公河沿岸的主要旅游景区，并未受到镇压活动的影响。但在其他地方，数百名警察和军人封锁了道路，驱散了围观的人群，并在抗议者之前聚集的公共广场自由公园(Freedom Park)四周拉起了警戒线。
The dispersal of demonstrators from Freedom Park by the police and others was highly symbolic. In 2009, the government officially designated the square as a place where Cambodians could express themselves freely, roughly modeling it on Speakers’ Corner in London. The square has been the center of protests led by the opposition since the elections in July. Protesters who have camped out there since mid-December have included Buddhist monks, elderly farmers and human rights advocates.
警方和其他部门驱散自由公园示威者的行动具有高度的象征意义。2009年，政府正式将该广场指定为柬埔寨人自由表达自己意见的地方，大致是以伦敦的演讲角(Speakers’ Corner)为榜样。自7月的选举以来，这座广场一直是反对派领导的抗议活动的中心。从12月中旬就开始在广场上露营的抗议者包括僧侣、年长的农民和人权倡导人士。
The Cambodian Center for Human Rights, an independent advocacy organization, accused the government on Saturday of a “violent clampdown on human rights” and said protesters were chased out of the square by “thugs dressed in civilian clothes” who were armed with steel poles and other makeshift weapons, an observation corroborated by journalists who were present.
周六，独立倡导组织柬埔寨人权中心(Cambodian Center for Human Rights)指责政府“对人权进行了一次残酷压制”，并称有“身着平民服装的暴徒”拿着钢棍等临时的武器，将抗议者赶出了广场，在场记者也证实了这一说法。
A number of protests during Mr. Hun Sen’s time in power have been broken up by shadowy groups. In 1997, a grenade attack on a protest led by Mr. Sam Rainsy left at least 16 people dead.
洪森掌权时期，已有多次抗议活动被可疑份子破坏。1997年，桑兰西领导的一次抗议活动遭遇了手榴弹袭击，至少导致16人死亡。
On Saturday, Cambodia’s Ministry of Interior issued a statement saying that the eviction of protesters “was conducted in a peaceful manner without any casualties.” Recent protests, the statement said, “led to violence, the blocking of public roads and the destruction of public and private property,” an apparent reference to the clashes between garment workers and soldiers on Friday, among other recent episodes.
周六，柬埔寨内政部发布声明称，驱赶抗议者的行动“以和平方式进行，没有造成任何伤亡”。声明称，最近的抗议活动“导致了暴力、堵塞公共道路和损毁公私财产的现象”。这明显是指近期的一些事件，包括制衣工人周五和士兵发生的冲突。
The statement said all protests and public assembly were banned “until security and public order has been restored.” It also advised “all members of the national and international community to remain calm and avoid participating in any kind of illegal activity that could have negative consequences on the national interests.”
声明称，“在安全和公共秩序恢复以前”，禁止所有的抗议和公共集会活动。声明还要求“国内外所有团体的成员保持冷静，不要参与任何可能对国家利益造成负面影响的非法活动”。
Mr. Hun Sen has been credited with stabilizing the country after the brutality of the Khmer Rouge, whose genocidal policies led to the deaths of 1.7 million Cambodians. But in recent years, he has accumulated highly centralized power, including a praetorian guard that appears to rival the capabilities of the country’s regular military units.
红色高棉(Khmer Rouge)曾在柬埔寨实行残酷统治，其大屠杀政策共导致170万柬埔寨人丧生。红色高棉垮台之后，洪森因维护了国家稳定而备受赞扬。但是近年来，他逐步积聚了高度集中的权力，其禁卫队似乎足以与柬埔寨的正规军相抗衡。
Economic growth that has brought modernity and prosperity to Phnom Penh has exposed stark inequalities in the country, where well over a third of children are malnourished. Only one-quarter of the Cambodian population has access to electricity. The streets of Phnom Penh are shared by luxury cars and families of four squeezed onto dilapidated motorcycles.
经济增长促进了金边的现代化和繁荣，也暴露了柬埔寨的严重不平等状况。这里有大大超过三分之一的儿童处于营养不良的状态。只有四分之一的柬埔寨人有电可用。金边的街道上既有豪华轿车，也有挤在破烂摩托车上的四口之家。
Garment workers, who number in the hundreds of thousands, have been the most aggressive in seeking higher wages. Striking workers are demanding a doubling of the monthly minimum wage to $160 from $80, an increase that the industry says would make it uncompetitive.
柬埔寨共有数十万制衣工人，他们要求提高工资的呼声最为激烈。罢工的工人要求把最低月工资增加一倍，从80美元（约合484元人民币）提高到160美元，服装行业则认为，这样的增幅会让本行业失去竞争力。
In the clash on Friday, garment workers confronted officers with rocks, sticks and homemade firebombs. The police fired into the crowd with assault rifles, witnesses said. In addition to the protesters killed, at least 20 people were injured.
在周五的冲突中，制衣工人用石块、棍子和自制火焰弹对警员进行了攻击。目击者称，警察用冲锋枪对人群进行扫射。除了有抗议者死亡以外，至少还有20人受伤。