KBAL GOH, Cambodia — For as long as Cambodian rice farmers can remember, their product has had an unsavory reputation. Tough, dirty and unmilled, it was impossible to cook evenly, and even farmers traded it as pig feed in exchange for cash or better-quality rice from Vietnam or Thailand.
柬埔寨格巴戈赫——柬埔寨的稻农永远都记得，他们的产品名声不佳。这些又硬又脏的糙米几乎不可能均匀受热煮熟，稻农们把它们当做猪饲料出售，以便换得现金购买越南或泰国产的优质大米。
Even while Cambodia recovered from decades of war and other areas of agriculture flourished, rice production languished, a national embarrassment in a country where 80 percent of the population works in paddies. In 2009, Cambodia exported just 12,613 tons of milled rice, putting it at the bottom of the global heap.
曾几何时，就在柬埔寨从数十年的战争中恢复过来，其他农业领域繁荣发展的时候，稻米生产却未有起色。在一个80%的人口都在稻田中劳作的国度，这种情况令整个国家难堪。2009年，柬埔寨的精米出口量只有12613吨，在全球排在最后。
But as Thailand, one of the world’s largest rice exporters, struggles with political instability, Cambodian exports have improved along with their quality; the rice can now be found in high-end grocery markets in the West. Last year, Cambodia was the world’s fifth-largest exporter of rice and the second-biggest exporter of premium jasmine rice. Sales of milled rice abroad reached 378,856 tons. No one knows this transformation better than Bun Chan Tony. His six hectares, or about 15 acres, earn him $6,000 a year, substantially more than in the past.
但当世界最大的大米出口国之一泰国陷入政治不稳定的困境时，柬埔寨出口大米的质和量都有所提高；人们现在可以在西方国家的高档食杂市场中找到柬埔寨的大米。去年，柬埔寨成为世界第五大大米出口国，第二大优质茉莉香米出口国。精米在国外的销售量达到了378856 吨。没人比本占·托尼(Bun Chan Tony)更能体会这种转变。现在，他每年可以通过自己的6公顷（约合15英亩）稻田赚6000美元（约合3.7万元人民币），与过去相比，收入大幅增加。
“When the rains come and there is a lot of water, we plant rice. When it’s drier, we plant corn, but rice is a staple and people must have it,” said Mr. Tony, although he said he would prefer to grow more corn than rice, which he says requires more work.
托尼说，“到了雨季，会有很多水，我们就种水稻。到了旱季，我们就种玉米，但大米是我们的主食，我们必须要有大米。”但他表示自己倾向于种更多玉米，而不是水稻，种水稻更费力。
Modern milling systems adopted in the last few years have helped elevate Cambodian rice to the international market. And locally milled rice has also received an unexpected lift from Thailand, where rice hoarding and huge government subsidies threatened to produce an enormous shortfall of rice on global markets. Cambodia hopes to make the most of the opportunity, setting a target of one million tons of milled rice for export by the end of 2015. It already has the milling capacity, and customs fees on rice exports have been scrapped.
过去几年采用的现代碾磨系统在一定程度上提升了柬埔寨大米的质量，使其进入国际市场。泰国的情况也出人意料地推动了柬埔寨精米的出口。在泰国，人们囤积大米，政府提供巨额补贴，而这可能会导致全球大米市场出现严重短缺。柬埔寨想要充分利用这个机会，设定目标，准备在2015年底前出口100万吨精米。柬埔寨已经具备了这种碾磨能力，而且政府取消了出口大米的关税。
In a bid to reach that ambitious target, the rice federation was formed in May. It merged three industry bodies into one and elected Sok Puthyvuth as president. Mr. Puthyvuth, the son of Cambodia’s deputy prime minister, Sok An, said the move had eliminated some costly competition, defined the industry’s goals more clearly and created a unified voice for lobbying.
为了达到这个远大目标，柬埔寨在今年5月成立了稻米联盟。三个产业机构进行了合并，柬埔寨副首相索安(Sok An)之子索波替武（Sok Puthyvuth，音译）被推选为联盟主席。波替武表示，此举消除了一些代价高昂的竞争活动，更明确地阐明了产业目标，有助于发出一致声音，进行游说。
“The plan that we are preparing is to focus on the whole chain. It means that we are looking at how much farmers will get, how much millers will benefit, and how much exporters will get, based on market prices,” he said. Still, there are formidable obstacles to reaching the new target.
他表示，“我们计划关注整个产业链。这意味着，在基于市场价格的前提下，我们将关注稻农的收入、磨坊主的获利情况、出口商的盈利情况。”但是，要想完成新目标，尚须克服巨大障碍。
For one, the country must tap new markets, like the United States, China and Africa. Just 1,780 tons have been exported to the United States so far this year.
举例而言，柬埔寨必须开辟新市场，比如美国、中国和非洲。到目前为止，柬埔寨今年只向美国出口了1780吨大米。
Mr. Puthyvuth also said that quality needed to improve further, as do relationships among growers, millers and exporters. Before the rice federation was formed, the sectors were divided into three industry bodies. The government has lamented that only 40 percent of Cambodia’s nine million farmers can produce rice suitable for export. Too many farmers still use chemical pesticides with cheap, poor-quality seeds — practices the government is working to change through education.
波替武还表示，质量需要进一步提高，种植者、磨坊主及出口商的关系也需要进一步改善。在稻米联盟成立以前，三方分别由三个产业机构管理。政府抱怨称，柬埔寨有900万稻农，其中只有40%的人能够生产适合出口的大米。很多稻农仍在使用化学农药和便宜的劣质种子——政府正在努力通过教育改变这些做法。
But the changing regional market is also creating opportunity for Cambodians. In Europe, rice imports are expected to be 99 percent pure, containing few rice grains of any variety other than what is on the label, but many Cambodian farmers are still reluctant to buy expensive seeds. Instead, they prefer to replant whatever has been growing in their paddies, saying it is easier to produce feed for Vietnamese livestock than to grow rice that can make a decent pudding.
但变化中的区域市场也为柬埔寨人创造了机会。在欧洲，进口大米需要是99%的纯种大米，除了标签标明的，几乎不含有其他品种的米粒，但很多柬埔寨稻农仍不愿购买高价种子。他们往往会继续种植之前的大米品种，称与种植用于制作精美甜点的大米相比，生产越南家畜食用的饲料要更容易一些。
This has created a niche market for other producers focused on high-quality rice and geared toward socially and environmentally aware consumers in the West. One of those growers, Ibis Rice, is trying to improve the traditional perceptions of Cambodian crops. Although the company is not yet exporting, its methods illustrate how growers are working to improve quality. An Ibis spokeswoman, Vanessa Ferrer, said the company, certified by the Wildlife Conservation Society, was formed in 2009 as an environmentally friendly producer working with rice-growing villagers who shared a desire to protect local wetlands, a natural habitat for the ibis, a migratory bird.
这为其他侧重优质大米的生产商创造了利基市场，使其面向具有社会及环境意识的西方消费者。其中一家生产商朱鹮大米公司(Ibis Rice)正在努力改善人们对柬埔寨作物的传统看法。虽然该公司还没有开始出口大米，但他们使用的方法说明了种植者正在努力提高质量。该公司女发言人瓦妮莎·费勒(Vanessa Ferrer)表示，公司成立于2009年，野生生物保护协会(Wildlife Conservation Society)为这家注重环境的生产商颁发了合格证书，公司与种植水稻的村民开展合作，这些村民同样也愿意保护当地湿地，那里是候鸟朱鹮的自然栖息地。