PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — As freedom fighters go, Mam Sonando stands out as somewhat eccentric. The entrance to his radio station, which is described by his loyal supporters as Cambodia’s only truly independent broadcaster, is decorated like a nightclub, complete with colored lights and a disco ball. It also has at least four Buddhist shrines.
柬埔寨金边——在呼吁自由的民众向前行进时，曼·索南多(Mam Sonando)显得有些古怪。他的电台被忠实的支持者们称为柬埔寨唯一真正独立的广播机构，其入口处布置得像家夜店，装饰着彩灯和一个迪斯科闪光球，此外至少还有四个佛龛。
“I am addicted to listening to music,” said Mr. Sonando, 72. Among his favorite artists to play at top volume are Lil Wayne, Eminem and Jay Z.
“我听音乐很上瘾，”72岁的索南多表示。他最喜爱的艺人有李尔·韦恩(Lil Wayne)、艾米纳姆(Eminem)和Jay Z等，他播放他们的歌曲时会把音量开到最大。
Mr. Sonando is the founder and intrepid owner of Beehive Radio. He is also a thorn in the side of Cambodia’s authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, who has been in power close to three decades.
勇敢的索南多是蜂窝广播电台(Beehive Radio)的创始人和所有者，也是掌权近30年、实行威权统治的柬埔寨首相洪森(Hun Sen)的眼中钉。
Mr. Sonando has been arrested three times over reports on his radio program that offended the government. The third arrest, two years ago on charges of insurrection, led to a prison term of 20 years, a ruling that was overturned — amid considerable pressure from Western governments — and replaced with a five-year suspended sentence for inciting unrest.
因为据称在电台节目中冒犯政府，索南多已经三次被捕。最近一次发生在两年前，他被判处20年监禁，罪名是叛乱。但由于西方国家施加了相当大的压力，这项判决后来被推翻了，代之以煽动混乱罪名和缓期执行的五年徒刑。
Mr. Sonando’s following appears to have grown hand in hand with his legal problems.
索南多遇到的法律问题似乎把他的支持者们团结到了一起。
In January, he and his supporters gathered in front of the Ministry of Information to demand that Beehive be given a television license and that the radio station be allowed to expand its broadcasting reach in Cambodia. The riot police broke up the demonstration and lunged toward him with electric batons. Mr. Sonando was spared injury when an entourage of supporters surrounded him and ushered him away.
今年1月，他和支持者们聚集在柬埔寨信息部(Ministry of Information)楼前，要求为蜂窝电台颁发电视经营牌照，并且扩大该电台在柬埔寨的覆盖范围。防暴警察驱散了抗议者，提着电棍向他冲去。但索南多没有受伤，因为一些支持者簇拥在他周围，护送着他离开了那里。
“I will help him whatever he does,” said Mech Samnang, one of the supporters who suffered electric shocks as he tried to shield Mr. Sonando during the clash. “You could compare him to my own father.”
“不管他做什么，我都会帮他，”麦可·撒南(Mech Samnang)说，他是索南多的一名支持者，试图在冲突中保护索南多时遭到了电击。“你可以把他比作是我自己的父亲。”
Over the past year, opposition has been building to Mr. Hun Sen, who until recently enjoyed unquestioned political primacy. The main opposition party has boycotted Parliament since disputed elections last July.
直到不久前，洪森在柬埔寨政界都享有无可争议的主导地位，但在过去一年中，洪森的反对派开始发展壮大。自从去年7月的选举出现争议之后，主要反对党一直在抵制议会。
Mr. Sonando has been a fixture at many of the protests staged against the government, some of which have drawn tens of thousands of people.
索南多是很多反政府抗议活动的常客，有些活动聚集了数以万计的抗议者。
At turns journalist, activist and politician, Mr. Sonando says he is fighting to “protect people who have been victimized.” His talk show on Beehive Radio regularly discusses topics ignored by most of the Cambodian news media: the illegal seizure of land, the destruction of the country’s forests and corruption.
作为新闻工作者、活动人士、政治人物，索南多说他奋斗的目的是“保护那些受到伤害的人”。在蜂窝电台的脱口秀节目上，他经常讨论一些被大多数柬埔寨新闻媒体所忽略的话题：非法强占土地、森林遭到破坏，以及腐败问题。
“I believe there will be change,” Mr. Sonando said in an interview in his office, which is both his home and the headquarters of Beehive. “Wherever there is injustice, there will be a struggle that emerges from it.”
“我相信柬埔寨会发生变化，”索南多在他的办公室接受采访时说，这里既是他的家，也是蜂窝电台的总部。“哪里有不平，那里就有抗争。”
A Cambodian and an American flag frame his desk, the latter a symbol of the “premise of the United States and ideals of its people,” he said.
他的办公桌上装饰着柬埔寨和美国的国旗。他说，后者象征着“美国的立国理念和美国民众的理想”。
“He’s such an interesting personality,” said Ou Virak, the president of the Cambodian Center for Human Rights, an independent advocacy organization in Phnom Penh.
“他是一个非常有趣的人物，”柬埔寨人权中心(Cambodian Center for Human Rights)主席乌威拉(Ou Virak)说。该中心是一个独立的权益倡导组织，位于金边。
With an outspokenness and a predilection for on-air rants, “he’s almost like a Cambodian Rush Limbaugh,” Mr. Virak said, “except that he doesn’t have any particular ideology.”
索南多直言不讳，喜欢在直播时咆哮。“他几乎像是柬埔寨的拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)，”乌威拉说，“只不过他没有什么特定的意识形态。”
Mr. Sonando formed a political party in the 1990s and ran for a seat in the National Assembly, but he lost and disbanded the party.
上世纪90年代，索南多成立了一个政党，想在柬埔寨国民议会争取一个席位。但他失败了，并且解散了这个政党。
As for Beehive Radio, “there’s nothing else out there that is so critical of the government,” Mr. Virak said.
谈到蜂窝电台时，乌威拉说，“它对政府的批判性无人可比。”
On a recent broadcast, Mr. Sonando complained for half an hour that a local official in a southwestern province “still had the mentality of the Khmer Rouge” and did not allow him to distribute donations to villagers.
在最近的一次广播中，索南多花了半个小时的时间，抱怨西南某省的一位地方官员“仍然抱有红色高棉心态”，不让他把捐款分给村民。
In many ways, Mr. Sonando embodies the difficulties of independent media in Cambodia. Soon after the radio station began broadcasting, he said, people dressed in police and military uniforms looted his home.
从很多方面来说，索南多的经历显示了独立媒体在柬埔寨遭遇的困难。他说，蜂窝电台开播之后不久后，身着警察制服和军装的人就抄了他的家。