PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — The fall from grace of one of Cambodia’s most prominent social activists and the unraveling of her sad tale of being an orphan sold into sex slavery has highlighted what aid workers here say is widespread embellishment and in some cases outright deception in fund-raising, especially among the country’s orphanages.
柬埔寨金边——一位柬埔寨最显赫的社会活动家颜面扫地，她自称是孤儿并被卖为性奴的悲惨故事很可能是编造的，此事突显了在柬埔寨工作的人道援助人员的一个说法：该国进行的筹款活动，特别是在为孤儿院筹款的时候，夸大事实的情况很普遍，有时简直是彻头彻尾的骗局。
Somaly Mam, who rose from rural poverty in Cambodia to become a jet-setting and glamorous symbol of the fight against the exploitation of women and children, stepped down last month from the United States-based charitable organization that carries her name after details of her widely publicized story were thrown into question.
索马里·玛姆(Somaly Mam)从一个柬埔寨乡下穷孩子一跃成为富有的成功人士，也成为打击妇女和儿童剥削行为的光辉象征，她的故事广为传播，还在美国一个以她的名字命名的慈善组织任职；上个月，当这些故事的细节遭到质疑后，她离开了该组织。
Ms. Mam — who has been praised and supported by Hollywood stars and United States government officials and celebrated by the American media — reinforced the image of Cambodia as a destitute country still suffering from its legacy of genocide, helping generate millions of dollars for charities.
马姆曾受到好莱坞明星和美国政府官员的称赞和支持，被美国媒体所追捧，她强化了柬埔寨作为一个贫困国家，仍然在种族灭绝遗留的痛苦中挣扎的形象，帮助该国的慈善事业吸引了数百万的美元。
But activists say her story is part of a larger tale of deception meant to attract foreign money into impoverished Cambodia. Such duplicity, they say, has drawn some foreign donors into unwittingly perpetuating a system that keeps thousands of poor children with parents in orphanages for years.
但是权益活动者们说，柬埔寨普遍存在一种欺骗行为，目的是吸引外国资金流入这个贫困国家，她的故事就属于这种情况。他们说，在这类欺骗行为的诱导下，一些外国捐助者不知不觉地让一个长期存在的做法延续下来，数以千计父母仍然健在的贫困儿童因此在孤儿院待了数年。
Although some families send children because they cannot provide basic care, others are lured by the institutions’ promises that the children will receive a better education. But child advocates say the orphanages are often more intent on making money and too rarely make good on their promises.
有些家庭把孩子送去孤儿院是因为他们无力提供起码的养育照料，但也有一些家长则是听信了孤儿院的承诺，以为孩子在那里可以获得更好的教育。儿童权利倡导者说，实际情况是孤儿院常常一心赚钱，兑现教育承诺的时候少之又少。
Sébastien Marot, the director of Friends International, a charity that specializes in helping children in Cambodia and neighboring countries, said the organizations misrepresented themselves as orphanages because it helped them raise money. “An orphanage is an easy sell,” he said. “They are distorting reality so that they can attract more compassion and money.”
国际友爱协会(Friends International)是一个专门帮助柬埔寨及其邻国儿童的慈善机构，总干事塞巴斯蒂安·马霍(Sébastien Marot)说，这些组织谎称自己是孤儿院，因为这有助于他们筹集款项。“自称是孤儿院比较容易打动人心，”他说。“他们歪曲事实，以便获得更多的同情和金钱。”
A government study conducted five years ago found that 77 percent of children living in Cambodia’s orphanages had at least one parent.
五年前开展的一项政府研究发现，生活在柬埔寨孤儿院的孩子中，有77%至少父母其中一方健在。
The empathy of foreigners — who not only deliver contributions, but also sometimes open their own institutions — helped create a glut of orphanages, according to aid workers, and the government says they now house more than 11,000 children. Although some of the orphanages are clean and well-managed, many are decrepit and, according to the United Nations, leave children susceptible to sexual abuse.
外国人的同情——外国人不仅会捐助财物，有时也会自己设立机构——是柬埔寨孤儿院数量过剩的原因之一，援助人员和政府表示，现在这些孤儿院容纳了逾1.1万名儿童。联合国官员说，虽然有些孤儿院干净整洁，管理完善，但也有很多很破旧，里面的孩子容易遭受性虐待。
“The number of orphans has been going down and the number of orphanages going up,” said Sarah Chhin, who helps run an organization that encourages children in orphanages who have families to return home. “We are forever having people say, ‘I’ve come to Cambodia because I want to open an orphanage.’ ”
“孤儿人数不断下降，孤儿院却在增多，”莎拉·齐英(Sarah Chhin)说，她所在的组织正在鼓励孤儿院里那些有家人的儿童回家。“我们一直都听到有人说，‘我来柬埔寨是因为我想开一家孤儿院。’”
A United Nations report three years ago said some orphanages “exploit the problem of poverty by actively recruiting children in poor families by convincing, coercing or even paying parents to give their children away.”
联合国三年前发布的一份报告称，一些孤儿院“利用贫困问题，主动引诱、胁迫，甚或付钱给父母，从贫困家庭招收儿童。”
In many cases, human rights activists say, the children are ordered to pose as orphans to attract foreign donations.
人权活动者们说，孤儿院常常命令这些孩子们假扮孤儿，以吸引外国捐款。
“Pity is a most dangerous emotion,” said Ou Virak, the founder of a human rights organization in Phnom Penh. “Cambodia needs to get out of the beggar mentality. And foreigners need to stop reacting to pure emotion.”
“怜悯是最危险的感情，”金边一个人权组织的创始人乌威拉(Ou Virak)说。“柬埔寨需要摆脱乞丐心态。而外国人需要避免感情用事。”
Hong Theary, a 22-year-old university student who spent more than four years in an orphanage in Phnom Penh, says she was one of those forced to lie and beg for donations from foreigners, although she comes from what she calls a “happy family” of rice farmers. Her parents sent her to the orphanage thinking she would get better schooling.
22岁的大学生洪·希利(Hong Theary)曾在金边一所孤儿院生活了四年多，她说自己和其他人被迫说谎，向外国人乞要捐款，尽管她实际上来自一个“快乐的”稻农家庭。父母把她送到孤儿院，是以为她在那里会受到更好的教育。
“It was a waste of time — I didn’t get anything out of it,” Ms. Theary said of the orphanage, which has since shut down. “The only person who benefited was the owner.” The head of the orphanage instructed her to take on a Canadian couple as “adoptive parents.”
“纯属浪费时间——我没有获得任何教益，”希利这样评价那家孤儿院，现在它已经被关停。“唯一受益者就是孤儿院的老板。”孤儿院的负责人指示她认一对加拿大夫妇为“养父母”。
“I regret that I did not tell them the truth,” Ms. Theary said of the Canadians, who visited Phnom Penh a number of times and gave financial support that ended up with the orphanage director. “They were always good to me.”
“我很后悔没有告诉他们真相，”希利说。这对加拿大夫妇数度到金边探访，他们提供的资金支持则落入了孤儿院负责人的腰包。“他们对我一直都很好。”
For a time, Ms. Mam was considered the country’s most famous orphan. She wrote an autobiography that described her as an orphan trafficked into sexual slavery, and she was often described in heroic terms in the American news media, including in columns by Nicholas Kristof of The New York Times. Mr. Kristof wrote in a recent blog post that given the doubts the recent revelations raised for him, he wished he had never written about her.
马姆有段时间被认为是全柬埔寨最著名的孤儿。她写了一本自传，称自己是被卖为性奴的孤儿，美国新闻媒体经常把她当作英雄来描述，其中包括《纽约时报》的纪思道(Nicholas Kristof)。纪思道近日在一篇博客文章中写道，鉴于马姆事情最近曝光引起的质疑，他希望自己从来没有写过关于马姆的文章。