The discovery of new fauna conjures up images of Livingstone-like explorers trekking through malaria-infested jungles. But scientists working in Cambodia have reported a new species of bird in a decidedly less remote environment: the outskirts of Phnom Penh.
发现新物种的事件总是让人联想到利文斯通 (Livingstone)之类的探险者在疟疾肆虐的丛林中跋涉的画面。然而，在柬埔寨做研究的一些科学家已经报告，他们发现了一种新鸟类，发现地是一个绝对不算荒僻的环境：金边市郊。
Simon Mahood, the lead author of an article released Wednesday in the Oriental Bird Club’s journal Forktail, says the bird’s primary habitat is about a 30 minutes’ drive from his home in Phnom Penh, “allowing for traffic.”
东方鸟类俱乐部(Oriental Bird Club)旗下杂志Forktail周三刊发文章的主要作者西蒙·马胡德(Simon Mahood)称，这种鸟的主要栖息地距离他在金边的家只有约30分钟的车程，“算上交通堵塞”。
“I’ve always wanted to discover a bird species, but I never expected it would happen like this,” Mr. Mahood, who works for the Wildlife Conservation Society in Cambodia, said by telephone from Phnom Penh. “I certainly didn’t expect to be standing in flip-flops and shorts a half an hour from home.”
马胡德在柬埔寨野生生物保护协会(Wildlife Conservation Society)工作。他在金边通过电话称，“我一直都想发现一种新的鸟类，但却从未想到，发现过程会是这样。我当然预料不到，发现它的时候，我竟然身处离家只有半小时的地方，穿着拖鞋和短裤。”
Roughly the same size as a wren, with white cheeks and a cinnamon cap, the bird was named the Cambodian tailorbird by the team that documented the discovery. Tailorbirds get their name from the way they build their nests, by threading spider silk or other fibers through a leaf, creating a sort of cradle.
这种鸟的体型和鹪鹩大致相当，有着白色的颊和浅褐色的冠，记录这一发现的小组将它命名为柬埔寨缝叶莺。缝叶莺因筑巢方式而得名，它们会用蛛丝或其他纤维将叶子缝起来，做成像摇篮一样的巢。
Around the world, perhaps a half dozen new bird species are identified a year. In this case, the authors ascribe the discovery to a sort of ornithological peace dividend in Cambodia: after decades of conflict in the country, scientists are now able to study the country’s natural diversity without the dangers and distractions of civil war.
即便是在全球范围内，新发现的鸟类每年兴许也只有六七种。这一次，发现者将自己的收获归功于鸟类学在柬埔寨享受的某种和平红利：在柬埔寨历经数十年冲突之后，科学家们现在能够专心研究该国的自然多样性，不再面临战争的危险和干扰。
There are 12 other species of tailorbird, but the Orthotomus chaktomuk, the scientific name for the discovery announced Wednesday, is distinct in plumage and genetic makeup, Mr. Mahood said.
马胡德说，世上还存在其他12种缝叶莺，不过，柬埔寨缝叶莺在羽毛及基因构成上和其他缝叶莺大不相同。周三公布的柬埔寨缝叶莺拉丁学名是Orthotomus chaktomuk。
The first recorded netting of the Cambodian tailorbird was serendipity. Researchers studying whether avian influenza could be transmitted through small birds captured, photographed and released a Cambodian tailorbird in 2009 without realizing it was a new species. Mr. Mahood was intrigued by those photographs and subsequent ones and began the study that led to the discovery.
关于柬埔寨缝叶莺，有记录的第一次捕获纯属意外。2009年，在研究禽流感是否会通过小型鸟类传播的时候，研究人员捕获、拍摄并放生了一只柬埔寨缝叶莺，却没意识到它是一个新种。马胡德对那些照片以及其后的照片产生了好奇，开始了导致新发现的研究。
The Cambodian tailorbird was the second major Cambodia-related discovery announced this month. Last week, Australian archaeologists said they had confirmed the existence of a city, now buried in jungle, that was contemporary with the ruins of Angkor Wat. Scientists used lasers deployed from helicopters to uncover the network of canals and roads.
柬埔寨缝叶莺是本月宣布的第二个和柬埔寨有关的重要发现。上周，澳大利亚考古学家说，他们已经确认了一座城市的存在，那座城市如今湮没在了丛林中，和吴哥窟(Angkor Wat)遗迹同属一个时代。科学家们利用从直升机上投射的激光发现了运河和道路组成的网络。