PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — Just over two years ago, at the Anful Garments Factory in Kompong Speu Province, a young worker named Chanthul and 250 of her colleagues collapsed in a collective spell of fainting. They had to be hospitalized; the production line shut down.
柬埔寨金边——就在两年多以前，在柬埔寨磅士卑省的银锋制衣厂(Anful Garments Factory)，名为准图(Chanthul)的年轻女工与250名同事集体晕倒。她们不得不被送院治疗；生产线关停。
Two days later, the factory was back up, and the mass faintings struck again. A worker started barking commands in a language that sounded like Chinese and, claiming to speak in the name of an ancestral spirit, demanded offerings of raw chicken. None were forthcoming, and more workers fell down. Peace, and production, resumed only after factory owners staged an elaborate ceremony, offering up copious amounts of food, cigarettes and Coca-Cola to the spirit.
两天后，制衣厂重新开工，但集体晕倒的事情再次出现。一名工人开始用听起来像是中文的语言吼出一些指令，宣称是在传达古老神灵的旨意，要求供奉刚宰杀的鸡。供奉没有送来，于是更多的工人昏倒在地。直到厂方办了一场复杂的法事，向这位神灵供奉了大量的食品、烟草和可口可乐之后，这里才恢复了平静与生产。
This episode, however bizarre, was not singular. In the past few years, Cambodia has experienced a slew of mass faintings among garment workers: One after the other, hundreds of women have fallen to the floor of their factories in a dizzy spell called duol sonlap in the Khmer language. The swooning has been attributed, variously, to heat, anemia, overwork, underventilation, chemical fumes and food poisoning. But according to one group of medical anthropologists and psychologists who have studied the phenomenon, two-thirds of these episodes are associated with accounts of possession by local guardian spirits, known as neak ta.
这件事，不管有多匪夷所思，并不孤立。在过去几年，柬埔寨经历了一系列的服装厂工人集体晕倒事件：一桩接着一桩，几百名女工倒在厂房的地上，经历这种高棉语中称为“duol sonlap”的眩晕发作。昏倒一事被归咎于各种原因，比如气温过高、贫血、过劳、通风不畅、吸入化学物废气或食物中毒。不过，在研究过这种现象的一群医疗人类学家和心理学家看来，三分之二的此类事件涉及到守卫地方的神灵“本头公”(neak ta)附体。
The mass faintings have paralyzed production, to the consternation of the government, factory owners and international clothing retailers. The United States opened its market to Cambodian exports in the 1990s, and the garment industry in Cambodia has since become a $5 billion-a-year business. According to the country’s Garment Manufacturers Association, there are now over 600 garment factories, most owned by Taiwanese, Korean, Chinese, Hong Kong and Singaporean companies. Many were hastily erected on the dusty outskirts of Phnom Penh and in a few other free-trade zones — on land where people believe neak ta have lived for generations.
让政府、工厂老板及国际服装零售商恐慌的是，集体晕倒让生产陷入瘫痪。上世纪90年代，美国市场向柬埔寨的出口商品敞开了大门。自此以后，柬埔寨制衣业已成长为年产值达50亿美元（约合310亿元人民币）的商业领域。按照柬埔寨服装制造商协会(Garment Manufacturers Association)提供的数据，这里如今有600多家制衣厂，多数由台湾、韩国、中国大陆、香港和新加坡公司所有。匆忙之中，许多厂房在尘土飞扬的金边郊外和少数几个自由贸易区拔地而起，而人们认为它们所在的地块是本头公世代居住的地方。
Although Theravada Buddhism has been the official religion of Cambodia since the 13th century, it never supplanted the existing pantheon of ancestral spirits, local gods and Brahamanic deities. Perhaps the most important of these is the neak ta, a spirit strongly associated with a specific natural feature — a rock, a tree, a patch of soil. These spirits represent a village-based morality and are inseparable from the land. This connection is so strong that in past times even some kings were seen to be merely renting the land from neak ta.
尽管13世纪以来小乘佛教就是柬埔寨的国教，但它从未取代存在已久的古老神灵、地方诸神，以及婆罗门教神祗的地位。其中最为重要的或许当属本头公，一种与特定自然存在——一块岩石、一颗树或一片土地——紧密联系在一起的神灵。这些神灵代表了以乡村为基础的道德观，与植根的土地密不可分。其间的关联极为紧密，以致于古代的某些君王也被看成是从本头公那里借土地来用而已。
Like those kings of old, Cambodia’s deeply superstitious prime minister, Hun Sen, in power for almost three decades, calls on land and water spirits to curse his enemies. Most Cambodians today, while Buddhist, ply spirits with tea and buns at small altars.
与那些古代君王一样，执掌柬埔寨近30年的首相洪森(Hun Sen)非常迷信，会召唤土地神和水神来诅咒敌手。今天的多数柬埔寨人尽管是佛教徒，仍在小龛中向神灵供奉茶水和点心。
These days, when neak ta appear on the factory floor — inducing mass faintings among workers and shouting commands at managers — they are helping the cause of Cambodia’s largely young, female and rural factory workforce by registering a kind of bodily objection to the harsh daily regimen of industrial capitalism: few days off; a hard bed in a wooden barracks; meager meals of rice and a mystery curry, hastily scarfed down between shifts. These voices from beyond are speaking up for collective bargaining in the here and now, expressing grievances much like the workers’ own: a feeling that they are being exploited by forces beyond their control, that the terms of factory labor somehow violate an older, fairer moral economy.
近段时间，当本头公在厂房现身，导致工人们纷纷昏倒在地，并冲着管理层大喊大叫的时候，他们是在帮助柬埔寨工人进行反抗：让这些大体来自农村的年轻女工进行一种针对工业资本主义严酷日常制度的行为抗议。在这种制度之下，工人们休息日聊聊，睡在简陋木屋的硬床上，换班间隙匆匆咽下米饭与看起来很可疑的咖喱凑成的劣质餐食品。神灵这样站出来说话，是在凡间为工人争取集体谈判权，抒发的怨恨之情与工人们在很大程度上是一致的：他们遭到了自我掌控之外的力量的剥削，而工厂的劳动条件多少与更古老、更公平的道德经济准则相违背。
Early last year, I met a 31-year-old woman called Sreyneang, a worker at Canadia Industrial Park, west of Phnom Penh. She had recently caused dozens of her co-workers to collapse after speaking in the voice of a neak ta. While entranced, she had also assaulted the president of the factory’s government-aligned union, pounding him with her fists and pelting him with insults.
去年初，我与31岁的女工塞娘(Sreyneang)见了面。她在金边西面的加华工业园(Canadia Industrial Park)工作。那之前不久，她发出了本头公的声音，导致数十名同事倒地。神灵附体后，她还攻击了与政府沆瀣一气的工会主席，拿拳头打他，还连番辱骂。
We chatted on the dirt floor of the tiny wooden house where she lived; there was nowhere else to sit. She said she had been feeling ill on the day of the fainting, and that the factory nurse had refused to let her go home. She did not remember most of what had happened next, but a spirit healer later explained that a neak ta had entered her, infuriated that a banyan tree on the factory site which had been his home for centuries was chopped down, with neither ritual propitiation nor apology, during the construction of the building.
在她居住的小木屋里，我们坐在肮兮兮的地板上交谈，因为没有别处可坐。她说，晕倒当天她一直觉得不舒服，而工厂的护士不准她回家。接下来的事情，她大多都不记得了，不过后来灵医告诉她，是本头公上身。本头公对工厂原址上的一棵榕树被砍倒气愤不已。工厂建设期间，他栖身了许多个世纪的这棵树被毁，也没人举办祈求宽恕或表达歉意的仪式。
A few months after that event, something similar happened at a sporting-goods factory near the capital that was said to have been haunted ever since it opened in August 2012. Female workers asked their supervisor, a man named Ah Kung, if they could hold a ceremony and offer a chicken to a neak ta angered at being displaced from the site. He refused. Two days later, the spirit entered the body of a young female worker, Sreymom, and claiming, in her voice, to have been “looked down upon,” began shouting in a mixture of Khmer and short, quick syllables her colleagues took to be Chinese. Several dozen other workers lost consciousness and had to be treated at a local clinic.
事情过去几个月后，首都金边附近的一家体育用品厂也出现了类似的情况。据说，2012年8月开工后，那里就一直遭到神灵的侵扰。女工们问男工头阿贡(Ah Kung)，能否举办仪式，向因流离失所而恼怒的本头公供奉一只鸡。他拒绝了。两天后，神灵附到了年轻女工塞蒙(Sreymom)的身上，借她的口宣称自己遭到了“蔑视”，并开始喊叫，其中混杂了高棉语与同事们认为是中文的简短音节。另外还有几十名同事失去了知觉，不得不在当地一家诊所接受治疗。
“When she was possessed, she just pointed around everywhere,” one eyewitness explained afterward. “She said, ‘I want to meet Ah Kung.’ She said, ‘I want to meet him because I lived here a very long time and he never respected me and this is my land.”’ When Ah Kung arrived, the bystander said, “He came out and knelt down in front of her and offered whatever the neak ta asked.”
“被上了身以后，她就到处指指点点，”一名现场见证人后来解释。“她说，‘我要见阿贡。’她说，‘我要见他，因为我在这里住了很长时间，他却从来都不尊重我。这是我的土地。’”当阿贡赶到的时候，这名见证人表示，“他走了出来，在她脚下跪倒，满足了本头公提出的所有要求。”
What the spirit was asking for was respect. He demanded that an altar be built and that ritual offerings be made to him there four times a month. He demanded that the owner roast a pig for him and throw a Khmer New Year party for the workers. The owner complied. The faintings stopped.
神灵想要得到尊重。他要求建一座神龛，每个月供奉四次祭品。他还要求，工厂老板献给他一只烤猪，并给工人们举办一场高棉新年庆祝会。老板照办了。晕倒事件就此终止。
In other times and places, ethnographers have also noted seemingly magical manifestations when indigenous populations first confront industrial capitalism. As the manufacture of linen intensified in northern Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries, household spirits began to appear in textile workshops in a more malevolent form. There was the story about the demonic imp Rumpelstiltskin, for example, who helped a young woman spin grotesque amounts of thread, but only in exchange for her firstborn. Other fairy tales sublimated the distress caused by the environmental and social costs of intensified flax production. The anthropologist Michael Taussig has written about Colombian peasants who were newly incorporated into wage labor on sugar cane plantations in the 1970s and reportedly sold their souls to the devil to increase their productivity.
在其他一些时间与地点，民族志研究者也注意到，当原住民刚开始遭遇工业资本主义的时候，也出现了看似神奇的现象。在十七、十八世纪，欧洲北部的亚麻织品生产扩大，普通人家中的精灵鬼怪开始以一种更为可怕的形象出现在纺织作坊里。比如，传说有个名字古怪的侏儒妖帮助一名女孩纺了无数的线，但一定要她拿第一个孩子作为交换。还有一些神话故事则表达了，伴随纺织生产扩大化的环境与社会成本所带来的重重压力。人类学家迈克尔·陶西格(Michael Taussig)曾经写到，上世纪70年代，刚开始涉足甘蔗种植园雇佣劳动的哥伦比亚农民据说将自己的灵魂出卖给了魔鬼，以提高劳动生产率。
Aihwa Ong, another anthropologist, documented an outbreak of spirit possession in the 1970s among Malaysian women in Japanese-owned electronics factories. These workers often screamed hysterically and attacked their supervisors under the influence of a native spirit called a datuk. Ms. Ong interpreted these acts as a spiritual rebellion against the drudgery of factory life and the rupturing of the women’s longstanding social ties as they migrated from villages to newly established free-trade zones.
人类学家翁爱华(Aihwa Ong)记载了20世纪70年代，日本电子厂里大量马来西亚女性被神灵附体的现象。这些工人往往会歇斯底里地尖叫，在当地神灵“拿督公”(datuk)的控制下对监管者发动攻击。翁爱华认为，这些举动是人们在精神上反抗劳累的工厂生活的表现，也反映了女性与社会的长期联系的断裂——因为她们从农村搬到了新成立的自由贸易区。
She also concluded that the spirit visitations did the women little good because they allowed the factory owners to cast the women’s valid complaints about working conditions as mass hysteria.
她还认为，神灵附体对女性并没有什么好处，因为这样一来，工厂主就会把她们对工作条件的合理诉求当做集体癔症发作。
In Cambodia, the opposite seems to be true. Like Ms. Ong’s subjects, the vast majority of garment workers here are female and young. Many are the first generation in their families to work outside their native rice-farming communities. They often send a large portion of their wages back home, and feel both lucky to be able to do this and desperate. “The conditions are terrible — very, very bad,” Sreyneang told me as she described working six days a week to eke out $120 a month, without being allowed to take days off even when sick. “The factory has always been really strict.”
柬埔寨的情况似乎正好相反。与翁爱华的研究对象一样，柬埔寨大量的服装工人都是年轻女性。她们很多都是自己家中第一代走出稻田耕作，到外面工作的人。她们经常会把自己的大部分工资寄回家，能够这样做，她们觉得既幸运又沮丧。“工作条件很可怕——非常、非常差，”塞娘说。她告诉我她每周需要工作六天，每个月勉强能挣120美元，连生病都不能请假。“工厂的规定非常严格。”
Despite efforts to diversify, the garment industry in Cambodia still makes up around 80 percent of the country’s total exports. Because the economy is so vulnerable to instability in the sector, the government has often reacted harshly, even violently, to garment workers’ efforts to unionize or take any collective action to ask for higher wages. During recent demonstrations, on Jan. 2 and 3, striking workers at Canadia Industrial Park and another factory near Phnom Penh were set upon by soldiers and military police; at least four were killed and dozens were injured.
虽然柬埔寨在寻求经济多元化，但服装工业仍然占了柬埔寨出口总量的80%。倘若服装行业出现波动，就会对经济造成重大影响，因此，对服装工人成立工会或任何要求增加工资的集体举动，政府的反应往往是严厉甚至暴力的。1月2日和3日，加华工业园区和金边附近另一座工厂的工人举行了罢工，士兵和军警对罢工者发动了袭击；至少有四人死亡，数十人受伤。
Cambodian workers frequently complain that they are forced to work overtime and threatened when they try to join independent unions rather than one of the many government- or factory-backed unions that have sprung up over the past decade. (For an estimated garment workforce of at least 450,000, by the International Labor Organization’s tally, there are now over 400 unions, according to Solidarity Center, an international labor rights group.) Pro-government and pro-factory unions occupy most of the seats allotted to labor on the national committee that determines wage increases, and their dominance complicates collective bargaining.
柬埔寨工人经常抱怨自己在被迫加班，而且当他们试图加入独立工会，而不是拥有政府或工厂背景的工会时，还会受到威胁。过去10年，拥有政府或工厂背景的工厂纷纷涌现。（根据国际劳工组织[International Labor Organization]的统计数据，柬埔寨至少有45万名劳工，而据国际劳工权益组织团结中心[Solidarity Center]统计，目前柬埔寨的工会组织已经超过了400个。）亲政府和亲工厂的工会在全国委员会分配给劳工的席位中占了绝大多数。全国委员会负责决定是否涨工资，而工会的主导权又加深了劳资谈判的复杂程度。
In September 2010, when the national minimum wage was $61 per month, some 200,000 workers took to the streets to ask for a raise. It was the largest-ever strike in the garment sector, but after just three days it came to an anticlimactic halt due to police violence and threats against union leaders. Hundreds of the striking workers were illegally fired in retaliation. The minimum wage remained the same.
2010年9月，约有20万名工人走上街头要求涨工资，当时柬埔寨的最低月工资为61美元。这是目前为止，服装行业规模最大的一次抗议运动，但是仅过了三天，随着警方的暴力干涉和工会领导者受到威胁，这场运动草草结束。为了报复，有数百名参加过抗议的工人被非法解雇。最低工资仍然未变。