Cambodia faced a volatile and possibly prolonged political standoff on Monday after leaders of the opposition said they rejected the preliminary results of Sunday’s election and accused the authoritarian government of Prime Minister Hun Sen of large-scale cheating.
周一，柬埔寨面临一个不稳定的政治僵局，而且有可能持续下去，因为反对党领导人拒绝接受周日大选的初步结果，并指责洪森(Hun Sen)总理的专制政府大规模作弊。
“We will not accept the result — we cannot accept the result,” Sam Rainsy, leader of the newly energized opposition, said Monday at a news conference. “The party in power cannot ignore us any more.”
重振了活力的反对派领导人桑兰西(Sam Rainsy)周一在一次新闻发布会上说，“我们不接受这个结果，我们不能接受这个结果。执政党不能再继续忽视我们。”
The governing Cambodian People’s Party issued a statement late on Sunday saying that preliminary results “clearly showed that the Cambodian People’s Party won a victory” and that the party had sufficient numbers to establish a new government.
执政的柬埔寨人民党(Cambodian People’s Party)周日晚些时候发表声明称，投票的初步结果“清楚地显示了柬埔寨人民党获胜”，表明该党赢得了组建新政府所需的足够选票。
The country’s information minister on Sunday said that the governing party had won 55 percent of the seats in the National Assembly – a relatively narrow victory and down from 73 percent of the seats in the last election, in 2008.
柬埔寨信息部部长周日称，执政党赢得了国会中55%的席位，这比2008年大选中获得的73%的席位数要少，算是微弱多数。
Mr. Rainsy had initially claimed victory after polls closed Sunday, but then retracted his claim.
桑兰西在周日投票结束后，最初曾声称其所在党获胜，但后来收回了自己的说法。
The opposition’s announcement on Monday that it would contest the results was partly motivated by calculations that cheating may have denied them victory, said Kem Sokha, the vice president of the main opposition party, the Cambodia National Rescue Party.
主要反对党柬埔寨救国党(Cambodia National Rescue Party)副主席根索卡(Kem Sokha)说，反对党在周一宣布质疑这一选举结果，其动机部分来这样一种计算：自执政党的胜利可能得益于作弊。
“We have a chance to win,” Mr. Kem Sokha, said. “It’s never been this close in our history.”
根索卡说，“我们有获胜的机会。在我们的历史上从没有这么接近过。”
Mr. Hun Sen, 60, has been in power for 28 years and Sunday’s election was one of the most closely contested of his career.
今年60岁的洪森已经执政28年，周日的选举是他政治生涯中竞争最激烈的之一。
Mr. Kem Sokha appeared to issue a veiled threat to the government, saying he feared that “Cambodian people who don’t like the result will rise up and make chaos.”
根索卡似乎是在间接地威胁政府，称他担心“那些不喜欢这一结果的柬埔寨人民会起来造反，制造混乱。”
The governing party’s statement on Sunday included an “appeal to all Cambodians to keep calm, maintain stability, security and good social order.” The opposition made a similar appeal for calm on Sunday.
执政党周日发布的声明中“呼吁所有柬埔寨人保持冷静、维护治安和良好的社会秩序”。反对党在周日也发出了类似的保持冷静的呼吁。
The Cambodia National Rescue Party was founded last year through a merger with Mr. Rainsy’s party and has given the opposition a unified voice. It also effectively means that Cambodia has a two-party system for the first time since multiparty democracy was restored in the 1990s.
柬埔寨救国党是去年与桑兰西的党派合并后组建的，这给了反对派一个统一的声音。也实际上意味着，柬埔寨自20世纪90年代恢复多党民主制度以来，首次有了一个两个政党的体系。
Mr. Rainsy called for a special committee to be formed to adjudicate the election. He proposed that the committee include members of both parties as well as independent election observers, both Cambodian and foreign.
桑兰西呼吁成立一个特别委员会对选举结果进行裁决。他提议这一委员会应该由来自两党的成员以及柬埔寨和外国的独立选举观察者组成。
A number of organizations monitoring the election have described widespread problems.
据一些监督组织描述，选举中存在大范围的问题。
“We acknowledge that there were irregularities,” said Thun Saray, the president of the board of directors of Camfrel, a Cambodian election monitoring organization. Mr. Thun Saray said there were many reports of duplicates in the voter rolls that appeared to have allowed more than one vote per person.
柬埔寨选举监督机构Camfrel负责人通萨拉伊(Thun Saray)说，“我们承认其中有很多不规范。”通萨拉伊称，许多报告称选民名单上有重复的，似乎允许一个人投超过一次以上的票。
Because of a stipulation in the Constitution that mandates a minimum presence in the National Assembly, the governing party would not be able to form a new government without the cooperation of the opposition, said Sok Sam Oeun, the executive director of the Cambodian Defenders Project, a charity that provides legal aid to the poor.
柬埔寨辩护者项目(Cambodian Defenders Project)主任索桑翁(Sok Sam Oeun)说，由于宪法中有一条对出席国会最少人数的要求，所以如果反对党不合作，执政党就无法组建一个新政府。(柬埔寨辩护者项目是一个为穷人提供法律帮助的慈善机构。)
“The ball is in the opposition’s court,” he said.
他说，“主动权在反对党手中。”