PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — Tens of thousands of antigovernment demonstrators marched through Phnom Penh on Sunday in one of the biggest acts of defiance against the nearly three decades of rule by Cambodia’s authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen.
柬埔寨金边——数万名反政府示威者周日在金边游行，这是对统治柬埔寨将近30年的威权总理洪森(Hun Sen)展开的规模最大的反抗活动之一。
The procession, which was peaceful and stretched for several miles through a commercial district of Phnom Penh, the capital, brought together protesters with a diverse list of grievances: Buddhist monks, garment workers, farmers and supporters of the main opposition party.
全程数英里的游行是在和平气氛中进行的，穿过了首都金边的一个商业区。抗议者来自方方面面，带着各自的不满，其中有佛教僧侣、服装厂工人、农民，还有主要反对党的支持者。
They were united in their calls for Mr. Hun Sen to step down, their chants — “Hun Sen! Get Out!” — echoing down the broad avenue where they marched.
他们团结在一起呼吁洪森下台，“洪森！走开！”之类的口号响彻游行途经的宽敞街道。
In July, Mr. Hun Sen’s party claimed victory in disputed elections that the opposition and many independent monitoring organizations said were deeply flawed. Mr. Hun Sen formed a government despite the growing protests by the opposition, which has boycotted Parliament and is calling for new elections.
7月，洪森所在党派在一场存有争议的选举中宣布胜出，而反对派和许多独立监督机构都称选举存在严重缺陷。尽管反对派的抗议声越来越大，洪森还是组成了新一届政府。柬埔寨反对派对议会进行了抵制，并呼吁举行新的选举。
Cambodia’s political stalemate and protest movement have been somewhat overshadowed by the turmoil in nearby Thailand, where antigovernment demonstrators are rallying to block elections and install a “people’s council” to govern the country during what they describe as a hiatus from democracy.
柬埔寨的政治僵局和抗议活动，在一定程度上被邻国泰国的动荡局势所遮盖，那里的反政府示威者聚集起来封堵选举，并建立了一个“人民委员会”，以便在一个他们称为暂缓民主的时期里治理这个国家。
But some analysts in Cambodia describe the past few months here as a watershed for Cambodian society, which for years has been dominated by the highly personalized rule of Mr. Hun Sen, whose party has tight control over major institutions in the country, including the army, the police, the judiciary and much of the news media.
但是在柬埔寨一些分析人士看来，过去几个月是柬埔寨社会的一个转折点。多年来这个社会一直被极为独断专行的洪森控制着，国内主要机构被他的政党牢牢掌握在手中，包括军队、警察、法官以及许多的新闻媒体。
Protesters blocking traffic and marching through downtown Phnom Penh remain a jarring sight after years during which the main message from the government has been that people should be grateful for the unity and development that Mr. Hun Sen brought to Cambodia after many years of war.
多年来政府向人民传达的讯息主要是人们要珍惜眼下的统一和发展，这些都是在经过长年战乱后由洪森促成的。然而抗议者堵塞交通、在金边市中心游行的情景打破了。
“It seems like a turning point in the history of civil society,” said Yeng Virak, the executive director of the Community Legal Education Center, a Cambodian human rights organization. “People feel more free to join protests and to identify themselves as part of the opposition.”
“这感觉像是一个公民社会史上的转折点，”柬埔寨人权机构社区法律教育中心(Community Legal Education Center)主任延维拉(Yeng Virak)说。“人民感到更自由了，可以加入到抗议人群中，将自己当作反对派的一分子。”
The continued vigor of the protest movement five months after the elections appears to be a reflection of the deep pool of resentment in the country toward Mr. Hun Sen.
在选举过去五个月后，抗议运动依然如此有声势，反映出柬埔寨国内对洪森的憎恶非同一般。
One woman who took part in the march on Sunday, Meng Phang, 59, shouted to onlookers, including stone-face police officers, that “Hun Sen and his family are getting richer but everyone else is getting poorer.”
参加了周日游行的孟攀(Meng Phang)是一位59岁的女性，她对包括面无表情的警察在内的旁观者喊道：“洪森和他的家族越来越有钱，其他人越来越穷。”