PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — There is an island in Cambodia that, unlike others in Southeast Asia, is not the object of an ownership dispute. But it is equally clear whom its current owners would like to land there: Chinese property buyers.
柬埔寨金边——在柬埔寨有一座小岛，和东南亚的其他岛屿不同，它不存在归属争议。不过，同样清晰无误的是，这座岛目前的所有者希望能让中国的房地产买家到岛上来。
If all goes according to plan, Koh Pich — Diamond Island in English — a 100-hectare, or about 250-acre, spit of land hugging downtown Phnom Penh’s shoreline, will be home to more than 1,000 condominiums, hundreds of villas, two international schools, a replica of the Arc de Triomphe, a near-clone of Singapore’s Marina Bay Sands Hotel and one of the world’s tallest buildings.
占地100公顷，即约250英亩的钻石岛(Koh Pich)是紧邻金边市中心水岸的一弯岬角，如果一切按计划进行，这里将建设1000多套公寓楼、数百座别墅、两所国际学校、一座巴黎凯旋门的复制品、一座几乎照新加坡滨海湾金沙酒店(Marina Bay Sands Hotel)原样复制的酒店，以及一座高度在全球数一数二的建筑。
But in a city with a history of stalled real estate projects, the future of the island, in the Mekong River, is far from certain.
然而，在一个房地产项目历来停滞不前的城市，这座湄公河中的小岛的未来依然没有定数。
Phnom Penh, Cambodia’s capital, is coming into its own as a regional business destination, and investment in its property market totaled $1.9 billion in the first half of 2013, compared with $1.2 billion in 2011, according to Leng Vandy, senior associate at the financial services company SBI Royal Securities. Even as mainland Chinese property investors have pushed prices up in Hong Kong, London and Vancouver, they are also injecting piles of cash into smaller cities, including Yangon, Myanmar; Chiang Mai, Thailand; and Vientiane, Laos.
作为本地区的商业投资目的地，柬埔寨首都金边正在进入繁荣期。据金融服务公司SBI皇家证券公司(SBI Royal Securities)高级经理冷万迪（Leng Vandy，音译）透露，2013年上半年，柬埔寨房地产市场获得的投资额达到了19亿美元（约合118亿元人民币），相较之下，2011年只有12亿美元。就在中国内地房地产投资者推高香港、伦敦和温哥华的房价的同时，他们也给较小的城市注入了大量的资金，其中包括缅甸的仰光、泰国的清迈和老挝的万象。
Phnom Penh, a city of nearly two million, is no different.
有近200万人口的金边也不例外。
“Mainland Chinese, especially Shanghainese, are very impressive,” said Um Bun An, sales manager at Casa Meridian, a development that, when completed in 2017, will feature two 33-story condominium towers. “They don’t need loans. They make their purchases in cash.”
至尊庄园(Casa Meridian)楼盘的销售经理温本安(Um Bun An)说，“中国内地人，尤其是上海人实在让人震惊。他们不需要贷款。直接用现金付款。”该楼盘由两栋33层的公寓楼组成，将于2017年完工。
With street signs featuring the simplified Chinese characters used on China’s mainland (elsewhere in Phnom Penh street signs are in Khmer and English only) and sales executives fluent in Mandarin, Diamond Island seems ripe for Chinese investment.
这里的街道标识上包括了中国大陆使用的简体中文（金边其他地区只用高棉语和英语），销售主管操着流利的普通话，钻石岛迎接中国投资的时机似乎已经成熟。
Eight years ago, the entire island was handed over to the local conglomerate, the Overseas Cambodia Investment Corporation, which in Mandarin calls itself the Cambodia Overseas Chinese-Cambodian Investment Corporation. Phnom Penh’s municipal spokesman, Long Dimanche, declined to disclose terms of the deal; there is no public information available about the corporation. The island’s previous residents, small-scale farmers, were either bought out or evicted.
八年前，这个岛被移交给了当地的一家企业集团Overseas Cambodia Investment Corporation，该公司自称的普通话名称是柬埔寨海外中柬投资公司。金边市发言人朗·迪芒什(Long Dimanche)拒绝透露交易条款；该公司的公开信息也无处可寻。钻石岛以前的居民不是被买断了产权，就是被拆迁出了此地。
Touch Samnang, the corporation’s deputy chief executive, also declined to discuss terms of the deal. The group has sold several plots on the island to developers for projects, including Casa Meridian, the gated villa development Elite Town, the pedestrian mall La Seine and The Élysée, a proposed mixed-use project that is to include a replica of the Arc de Triomphe. After Cambodia passed a law in 2010 allowing foreigners to buy condominiums in towers above the first floor of approved buildings, developers in Phnom Penh have begun catering to growing foreign demand. A report in March by the Phnom Penh office of the property consultancy CBRE noted that 20 condominium projects had been completed or were under construction in the city.
该集团的副总裁也拒绝讨论交易条款。该集团已经把岛上的几个地块卖给了开发商，用于开发项目，这些项目有至尊庄园，封闭式别墅社区精英城(Elite Town)，步行街项目“塞纳河”(La Seine)，以及一个提议进行混合开发的项目“爱丽舍宫”(The Élysée)，凯旋门的复制品就属于该项目。2010年，柬埔寨通过法律，允许外国人购买已获审批的建筑中位于首层以上的公寓套间，自那之后，金边的开发商已开始迎合日益增长的海外需求。房地产咨询公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)驻金边办公室在今年3月公布的一份报告里指出，在金边，已经完工或正在施工的公寓楼项目达到了20个。
The island’s largest such project is the $700 million Diamond Island Riviera: three 33-story condominium towers supporting a 650-foot infinity-edge pool, a shopping mall, hospital, an international school, two pedestrian shopping streets — plus two additional 29-story condominium towers. In a nod to Chinese superstition, which considers the number four unlucky, the buildings will not have 4th, 14th, 24th or 34th floors.
岛上最大的一个项目是7亿美元的“钻石岛海滨”(Diamond Island Riviera)，它包括三栋33层高的共管公寓，一个650英尺长的无边游泳池，一个购物中心，一所医院，一个国际学校，两条步行购物街——还有另外两栋29层高的共管公寓。中国迷信认为“4”这个数不吉利，因此这里的建筑物没有第4、第14、第24和第34层。
Diamond Island Riviera is a joint venture between O.C.I.C. and the Chinese company Jixiang Investment on a prime plot with the island’s best river view. Mr. Touch said O.C.I.C. sold the land for “close to $100 million.”
钻石岛海滨是OCIC和中国公司吉祥投资（Jixiang Investment，音译）的合资项目，占据了这座岛上最好的江景宝地。塔奇说OCIC出售这片地的价格“接近1亿美元”。
The project has many ties to China’s growing overseas construction industry, which in 2013 included 22 of the world’s top 100 international contractors by revenue, according to the industry journal Engineering News-Record.
这个项目跟中国不断增长的海外建筑业有千丝万缕的关系。建筑行业期刊《工程新闻纪录》(The Engineering News-Record)的资料显示，2013年全球（以收入计）100强国际承包商有22家来自中国。
Chinese buyers account for roughly half of sales at Diamond Island Riviera, according to Brak Kim Seng, senior sales officer at the O.C.I.C. subsidiary Canadia Bank.
钻石岛海滨售出的房产中，约有一半被中国人买走，OCIC子公司加华银行(Canadia Bank)的高级销售人员布拉克·金·森(Brak Kim Seng)说。
“The majority of Chinese buyers are buying as an investment,” Mr. Brak said in Mandarin. “They’ll hold on, and when prices rise, they’ll sell off.”
“大多数中国买家买来作为投资，”布拉克用普通话说。“他们会持有这些房产，等到价格上涨，就会抛售它们。”
Much remains to be built. Land is being reclaimed at the island’s north end for Phnom Penh’s most ambitious project, a mixed-use tower topping out at 1,820 feet. If built, it would be one of the world’s tallest structures. Mr. Touch said the tower was still in the design stage, and that the land would need to settle for one or two years after reclamation work was finished.
仍有很多房产尚待修建。这座岛的北端正在开垦土地，用于金边最雄心勃勃的开发项目：一栋高1820英尺（约554米）的多用​​途大楼。如果建成，它将是世界上最高的建筑物之一。塔奇说，该楼仍处于设计阶段，填海工程结束后，这片地需要先沉降一两年时间。
Limited demand from Cambodia’s relatively small wealthy class and a heavy reliance on foreign investment has some observers questioning the viability of the projects.
柬埔寨富裕阶层人数相对较少，他们的需求不大，这些项目严重依赖外国投资，因此一些观察家对它们的可行性表示了质疑。
Mr. Leng said he saw residential supply outstripping demand in Phnom Penh in coming years, although he believes growing demand from high-net-worth Cambodians and expats as well as the upcoming integration under the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Economic Community, scheduled for the end of 2015, will narrow the gap.
冷先生说，他认为在未来几年内，住宅供应量超过了金边的需求，虽然他相信柬埔寨高净值人士和外籍居民的需求在不断增长，而根据东南亚国家联盟经济共同体(Association of Southeast Asian Nations Economic Community)的协议，预定在2015年年底进行的整合即将到来，这种差距将被缩小。