NEW DELHI — After years of deadlock, Nepal’s Parliament on Monday elected Sushil Koirala, a longtime democracy activist who was involved in a famous 1973 Nepali plane hijacking, as the country’s new prime minister.
新德里——在多年的僵局之后，尼泊尔议会周一选举苏西尔·柯伊拉腊(Sushil Koirala)为该国新任总理。这位长期的民主活动人士曾参与了著名的1973年尼泊尔劫机事件。
Mr. Koirala, 75, is the president of the party Nepali Congress, which emerged from elections in November with the most seats in the country’s Constituent Assembly. Mr. Koirala won more than two-thirds of the legislators’ votes, with 405 voting for him and 148 opposed.
现年75岁的柯伊拉腊是尼泊尔大会党(Nepali Congress)主席。该党在去年11月的选举中脱颖而出，在尼泊尔议会制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)获得了最多席位。柯伊拉腊赢得了制宪会议超过三分之二的选票，总共获得405张支持票，148张反对票。
“Koirala’s election as prime minister completes an important chapter arising out of the 2013 elections,” said Ghanashyam Ojha, a spokesman for Investment Board Nepal.
尼泊尔投资委员会(Nepal Investment Board)发言人甘希亚姆·欧吉哈(Ghanashyam Ojha)说，“柯伊拉腊的当选为2013年选举中诞生的一个重要章节画上了句号。”
An unsmiling man whose dour speeches elicit little enthusiasm even among supporters, Mr. Koirala is widely respected for his years in jails and in exile fighting for democracy in Nepal. He is unmarried and lives a spartan life, an attractive quality for those angered by lavish living among the previously dominant Maoists.
不苟言笑的柯伊拉腊发表演讲时言辞沉闷，甚至无法激起其支持者的热情。但由于他曾为了尼泊尔的民主运动而入狱流亡多年，柯伊拉腊受到了广泛的尊敬。他至今未婚，过着简朴的生活，对于那些不满于之前统治尼泊尔的尼共成员奢侈生活的人们来说，这个品质十分具有吸引力。
Mr. Koirala was not always so dour. In his youth, he took acting lessons in hopes of becoming an overseas movie star. King Mahendra’s coup in 1960 dashed Mr. Koirala’s acting dreams, and he spent the next 16 years in political exile in India.
柯伊拉腊并非一直都是这样沉闷。他年轻时曾学习过表演，梦想成为一名国际电影明星。马亨德拉国王(King Mahendra)1960年的政变击碎了柯伊拉腊的演员梦，在接下来的16年里，他一直在印度政治流亡。
In 1973, Mr. Koirala was among the hijackers who forced a plane flying to Katmandu from Biratnagar to divert to India, where he and the other hijackers made off with 3 million Indian rupees to finance the fight for democracy. He was jailed for six years in India and Nepal as a result.
1973年，柯伊拉腊和其他人劫持了一架从比拉德讷格尔飞往加德满都的飞机，迫使其飞到印度。他和其他劫机者在印度带走了300万卢比，以为民主运动提供资金。由于这件事，他在印度和尼泊尔的监狱里被关了六年。
Born in Biratnagar, a center of jute manufacturing in Nepal’s eastern region, Mr. Koirala is a member of one of Nepal’s most storied political families. A relative, Girija Prasad Koirala, was the country’s prime minister multiple times.
柯伊拉腊出生在尼泊尔东部的黄麻制造中心比拉德讷格尔，他还是尼泊尔一个知名政治家族的成员。柯伊拉腊的亲戚吉里贾·普拉萨德·柯伊拉腊(Girija Prasad Koirala)曾多次出任尼泊尔首相。
Mr. Koirala’s election was made possible after Nepal’s two dominant parties, the Nepali Congress and the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist), both centrist movements, put aside weeks of acrimonious wrangling and signed a seven-point accord promising, among other things, to adopt a constitution within a year and allow the present president and vice president to remain in office until then.
柯伊拉腊之所以能够当选，是因为此前，走中间路线的尼泊尔两大政党——尼泊尔大会党和尼泊尔共产党（Communist Party of Nepal，联合马列[Unified Marxist-Leninist]），搁置了数周以来的争执，签署了七点协议，同意在一年之内颁布宪法，在此之前，允许现任总统和副总统继续任职。
Mr. Koirala’s election was opposed by the Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), the pro-monarchist Rastriya Prajatantra Party and some smaller parties. But Kanak Mani Dixit, a Nepali political commentator, said that Mr. Koirala’s comfortable margin of victory gave hope that the Constituent Assembly might finally finish the job of writing a constitution, which must pass by a two-thirds majority.
向柯伊拉腊投反对票的包括联合尼共（Unified Communist Party of Nepal，毛主义[Maoist]）、支持君主主义的尼泊尔民族民主党(Rastriya Prajatantra Party)和一些更小的政党。尼泊尔政治评论员卡纳克·马尼·迪克西(Kanak Mani Dixit)说，柯伊拉腊的大幅领先让制宪会议有望最终完成制定宪法的工作。该宪法必须在议会获得三分之二的赞成票才能被通过。
“Koirala is going to have to gather all of his skills to persuade his partners to stick with him in governance and constitution writing,” Mr. Dixit said.
迪克西说，“柯伊拉腊将必须竭尽所能，说服他的合作伙伴，来支持其对国家的治理和制宪。”
Ruled for centuries by monarchs, Nepal has 125 ethnic groups, 127 spoken languages, scores of castes and three distinct ecosystems that have long divided its 27 million people into a blinding array of feuding communities, making political consensus difficult and damaging the country’s economy. About 120 parties competed in the election last year.
经历过长达几个世纪君主统治的尼泊尔拥有125个民族、127种语言、几十个种姓以及三种特色鲜明的生态系统，把该国的2700万人口分隔成了令人眼花缭乱又彼此不和的社区，使得政治共识难以达成，也对该国经济造成了影响。去年，约120个政党参与了选举。
A 10-year civil war between the Maoists and the government ended in 2006, but the resulting Constituent Assembly spent four years trying to write a constitution without success, leading to political paralysis. A technocratic government was chosen last year to oversee new elections. The Nepali Congress pulled out a surprising victory, with the Marxist-Leninists a close second. The two most divisive issues remaining in the writing of the constitution are whether to adopt an executive presidency and how to divide the country into smaller political units.
2006年，毛主义者和政府结束了长达10年的内战，但内战后诞生的制宪会议在四年里都无法出台宪法，导致尼泊尔出现政治瘫痪。去年，尼泊尔选出了一个专家政府来监督新的选举。尼泊尔大会党意外胜出，尼泊尔共产党（联合马列）以微弱差距排在第二位。在制宪过程中，两个最具争议的问题是，是否采取总统负责制，以及如何把国家划分为更小的政治单元。