PARIS — Was the paradigm-changing architect known as Le Corbusier a fascist-leaning ideologue whose plans for garden cities were inspired by totalitarian ideals, or a humanist who wanted to improve people’s living conditions — a political naïf who, like many architects, was eager to work with almost any regime that would let him build?
巴黎——作为一名改变了建筑范式的建筑师，勒·柯布西耶(Le Corbusier)究竟是受极权主义启发而规划了花园城市的偏法西斯主义的理论家，还是希望改善人们生活条件的人文主义者，又或者是和许多建筑师一样，在政治理念上天真幼稚，只要让他建造房屋就愿意和几乎任何政权合作？
These questions, long debated by experts, are at the heart of fresh controversy in France set off by three new books that re-examine that master Modernist’s politics and an exhibition on Le Corbusier at the Pompidou Center here through Aug. 3, commemorating the 50th anniversary of his death. In light of the books, the exhibition has been criticized for glossing over, in particular, Le Corbusier’s well-documented involvement with far-right elements in France from the 1920s to the 1940s.
这些让专家们争论不休的问题，是最近法国一场大论战的核心。掀起这场论战的是三本重新审视了这位现代主义大师政治理念的新书，和一场为纪念该建筑师逝世五十周年而在蓬皮杜中心(Pompidou Center)举办的、将于八月三日截止的勒·柯布西耶展览。在这几本书的影响下，该展览被人批评有文过饰非之嫌，尤其对于有大量资料记载的、勒·柯布西耶自20世纪20年代至40年代之间在法国与一些极右分子的交往。
The polemics in the French news media have grown so pointed since the show opened in April that the Pompidou announced that it would hold a symposium next year on Le Corbusier’s politics. Antoine Picon, chairman of the Le Corbusier Foundation, which manages his archive and helps preserve his buildings, said he worried that the debate might affect an application submitted this year for various examples of the architect’s work in seven countries, including France and Chandigarh, India, to be classified as Unesco World Heritage sites. The attacks also come amid the rise of the far-right National Front in France and within a broader debate on that country’s World War II-era past and the legacy of Modernism.
自从该展览四月份开展以来，这场论战在法国的新闻媒体上就愈演愈烈，于是蓬皮杜中心宣布，他们将于明年举办一个讨论勒·柯布西耶政治理念的研讨会。但负责管理这位建筑师档案并保护其建筑成果的勒·柯布西耶基金会(Le Corbusier Foundation)董事长安托万·皮康(Antoine Picon)说，他很担心这场论战会影响他们今年提交的一份申请，该申请是为了让这位建筑师在法国和印度昌迪加尔(Chandigarh)等七个国家设计的几栋不同的建筑物被联合国教科文组织列为世界文化遗产保护地。这次论战还恰好赶上了法国极右组织国民阵线(National Front)的崛起，同时正处于一场更广泛的关于法国二战往事和现代主义遗产的大辩论当中。
“We were very, very surprised by the violence of the criticism,” said Frédéric Migayrou, one of the curators of “Le Corbusier, Measurement of Man,” at the Pompidou. He said the architect’s politics were well known and the museum never intended them to be the focus of the fairly modest exhibition. It draws on Le Corbusier’s post-Cubist sculpture and painting to demonstrate how he used the human form as an organizing principle in his architecture, from furniture to city planning, a link not generally associated with the clean lines of rationalist architecture.
“勒·柯布西耶，人之方圆”(Le Corbusier, Measurement of Man)展的策展人之一弗雷德里克·米盖鲁(Frédéric Migayrou)在蓬皮杜中心说，“这些批评的激烈程度让我们感到非常吃惊。”他说该建筑师的政治理念是众所周知的，而且博物馆从未有意让政治观点成为这场小展览的焦点。这场展览采用了勒·柯布西耶的后立体主义雕塑和绘画，以此展示他如何将人体形状作为一种设计原理运用在他的作品之中，该原理是他从家具设计到城市规划等一系列作品之间的纽带，但总体上和理性主义建筑风格(上世纪20年代至30年代之间在意大利星期的一种建筑流派——译注)所崇尚的清晰线条并无关联。
But from what angle did the architect approach the individual? The authors of “Le Corbusier, a French Fascism,” by the journalist Xavier de Jarcy; “Le Corbusier, a Cold Vision of the World,” by the journalist Marc Perelman; and “A Corbusier,” by the architect and critic François Chaslin essentially argue that Le Corbusier’s aesthetics cannot be separated from his politics, which leaned more to the right than the left, despite work he did in Moscow.
但这位建筑师是从哪个角度向个人靠近的呢？《勒·柯布西耶，一位法国的法西斯主义者》(Le Corbusier, a French Fascism，新闻记者泽维尔·德雅赫西[Xavier de Jarcy]著)、《勒·柯布西耶，冷眼看世界》(Le Corbusier, a Cold Vision of the World，新闻记者马克·佩雷尔曼[Marc Perelman]著)和《柯布西耶者》(A Corbusier，建筑师兼评论家弗朗索瓦·沙兰[François Chaslin]著)这几本书的作者都从根本上认为，勒·柯布西耶的审美不能与其政治理念分割开来，尽管他在莫斯科工作过，但他的政治观点更倾向于右翼而不是左翼（在西方，法西斯主义为“右”，而共产主义为“左”——译注）。
“There’s still a myth surrounding Le Corbusier, that he’s the greatest architect of the 20th century, a generous man, a poet,” Mr. de Jarcy said. That vision, he added, is “a great collective lie.”
“仍然有个谜团围绕着勒·柯布西耶，都说他是20世纪最伟大的建筑家，是个慷慨的人，是一名诗人，”德雅赫西说。但那样的看法其实是个“人云亦云的大谎言，”他补充道。
Some of the recent criticism has centered on a section of the Pompidou show about the Modulor, a human silhouette that Le Corbusier developed in 1943, the height of the war, as the basis for a system of proportion that he used in his later work. The show’s organizers and many scholars see the Modulor as a humanist expression that helped form the basis of human-scale architecture.
最近的一些批评都集中在蓬皮杜展关于《模度》(Modulor)的部分，那是勒·柯布西耶于1943年在二战如火如荼时做的一尊人体轮廓雕塑，他把该作品当成了其后续作品所采用的一个比例系统的基础。这次展览的组织者们和许多学者都把《模度》视为一种人文主义者的表现，认为该作品促成了按人体舒适度比例进行设计的这个理念的基础。
“For me it’s exactly the opposite,” Mr. Perelman said. “It’s the mathematicization of the body, the standardization of the body, the rationalization of the body.”
“于我而言，恰恰相反，”佩雷尔曼说。“我认为这是人体的数学化，人体的标准化，和人体的理性化。”
Born Charles-Edouard Jeanneret to a petit-bourgeois Protestant family in Switzerland in 1887, Le Corbusier was highly complex. He built some of his largest projects in Soviet Russia in the 1930s, admired Mussolini, and in 1940 and 1941 spent 18 months in Vichy, France, trying, and failing, to curry favor with the Fascist regime of Marshal Pétain, which ultimately found his ideas too avant-garde.
勒·柯布西耶1887年出生于瑞士的一个小资产阶级新教徒家庭，原名夏尔· 爱德华·让纳雷(Charles-Edouard Jeanneret)，一生经历复杂。他于20世纪30年代在苏联建造了他做过的最大的几个项目，他崇拜墨索里尼(Mussolini)，并于1940年至1941年在法国维希市待了18个月，试图马歇尔·贝当(Marshal Pétain)的法西斯政权，但贝当最后发现他的想法太前卫了。
In 1940, just days before a Vichy ruling banning Jews from elective office and other professions, Le Corbusier wrote to his mother: “The Jews are going through a very bad time. I am sometimes contrite about it. But it does seem as if their blind thirst for money had corrupted the country.”
1940年，维希政府颁布了一项法令，禁止犹太人从事选举可得的工作和其他工作，该法令颁布仅仅几天后，勒·柯布西耶写信给他的母亲说：“犹太人正经历一个非常困难的时期。我对此也偶尔有所悔悟。但他们对金钱的盲目渴求似乎确实让这个国家变得腐败不堪了。”
But, scholars note, he also built for Jewish families in Switzerland, never publicly denounced Jews and never joined a fascist organization. “It’s an error in my view to insist on his anti-Semitism,” Mr. Chaslin said. But what he and his fellow authors find more troubling is the architect’s involvement in the 1920s with the right-wing elements. Later, some Vichy supporters saw his well-ordered Radiant City plan for Marseille, France — based on the shape of the human body — as a perfect expression of the Fascist program.
但学者们指出，他也曾为犹太人在瑞士建造了家园，并且从未公开谴责过犹太人，也从来没有加入过任何法西斯组织。“揪住他的反犹太主义不放，在我看来是个错误，”沙兰说。但他和另外几名作者发现，更麻烦的是这位建筑师在20世纪20年代曾与一些极右分子的交往。后来，一些维希政府的支持者把他为法国马赛市做的以人体形状为基础、排列得非常整齐的光芒之城规划看成了法西斯进程的一个完美符号。
During the Second World War he was friendly with Alexis Carrel, a Nobel Prize-winning surgeon asked by the Vichy government to explore means of “national renewal.” Le Corbusier had read and enthusiastically underlined Carrel’s 1935 best seller, “Man, the Unknown,” which argues that parts of the French population should be gassed to preserve the most “virile” elements.
在二战期间，他与亚历克西斯•卡雷尔(Alexis Carrel)交好，此人是一名获得了诺贝尔奖的外科医生，他应维希政府要求而探讨“国家复兴”的方法。勒·柯布西耶曾经拜读过卡雷尔1935年出版的畅销书《人类尚在未知之中》(Man, the Unknown)，并激动地在某些内容下面划了线。这本书认为，一部分法国人应该煤气中毒而死，从而保留下那些最有“男子气概”的人。
In their books, Mr. de Jarcy and Mr. Perelman argue that Le Corbusier’s architecture was inspired by Carrel’s unsavory ideas about how to clear out the old to make way for the new. Later, the architect proposed his Plan Voisin for Paris in the 1920s, in which he wanted to replace the urban blight of the Marais quarter with 18 glass towers on a rectangular grid with green space. Le Corbusier “projects his urbanism as a way to put forward his ideology,” Mr. de Jarcy said, “where the individual is destroyed by the group.”
在这些作者的书中，德雅赫西和佩雷尔曼认为，勒·柯布西耶的建筑设计曾受到卡雷尔的启发，此人对怎样清除旧事物以给新事物让路有一些令人憎恶的想法。后来，该建筑师在20世纪20年代为巴黎做了一项“伏瓦生规划”(Plan Voisin)，在这项规划中，他希望用十八栋建在矩形网格地块上的、带有绿色空间的玻璃幕墙大厦来取代巴黎玛莱区那片颓废的都市地带。勒·柯布西耶“规划了他的都市风格，以此来推行他的理念，”德雅赫西说，“在这样的地方，个人被群体毁灭了。”
But other scholars say that the new books — which brought material previously known to experts to the attention of the broader public — have taken the most damning elements of a complex life out of context.
但其他学者说，这几本让之前只有专家才知道的材料公之于众的新书，将一段复杂人生当中最糟糕的一些东西都抽出来断章取义了。
“Le Corbusier reflects all the problems of the 20th-century temptation for radical reform,” said Jean-Louis Cohen, an architectural historian at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University who was a curator for an exhibition on Le Corbusier at the Museum of Modern Art in 2013 and one at the Pompidou in 1987 that addressed his politics. It’s clear that the architect “is no democrat,” Mr. Cohen said. “He is someone who thought that reform, social change, could only be made by an authority.” But, he added, “That’s why Le Corbusier is interesting, because of his own passions and the way he crosses the passions of the century.”
“勒·柯布西耶反映了20世纪对激进式改革的向往，”纽约大学美术学院(Institute of Fine Arts)的建筑历史学家让·路易·科恩(Jean-Louis Cohen)说，他是2013年现代艺术博物馆和1987年蓬皮杜中心这两次勒·柯布西耶展的策展人，其中1987年的那次展览曾涉及这位建筑师的政治理念。显而易见，这位建筑师“不是民主主义者，”科恩说。“他是那种认为改革和社会变革只能由某个权威来主导的人。”但是，他补充道，“那就是为什么勒·柯布西耶非常有趣，原因在于他个人的热情，还有他经历那个狂热时代的方式。”
Nicholas Fox Weber, who wrote about Le Corbusier’s involvement with far-right elements in his exhaustive 2008 biography, “Le Corbusier: A Life,” said the architect often told people what they wanted to hear, whether it was governments or his own mother.
在2008年的详细传记《勒·柯布西耶：建筑家的一生》(Le Corbusier: A Life)中写到了他与极右分子交往的尼古拉斯·福克斯·韦伯(Nicholas Fox Weber)说，这位建筑师常常对人们说他们想听的话，无论是政府还是他自己的母亲。
“Le Corbusier was a combination of blind and naïve about all politics,” Mr. Fox Weber said. The architect “was more than happy to have his ideals associated with the Fascist movement,” but at the same time “he was so excited with what Lenin was doing in Moscow,” Mr. Fox Weber said, adding: “He didn’t see the contradictions. He’s like an idiot savant.”
“只要涉及政治理念，勒·柯布西耶就盲目而天真，”福克斯·韦伯说。这位建筑师“非常乐意把他的思想与法西斯运动联系起来，”但与此同时“他对列宁在莫斯科所做的事也感到兴奋，”福克斯·韦伯说，“他不觉得这有什么矛盾。他就像个低能的学究。”
Others note that many architects work with unpleasant regimes in order to build.
还有人提到，许多建筑师为了建筑设计工作都曾与不受欢迎的政权合作过。
Mr. Picon, chairman of the Le Corbusier Foundation, sees the polemics as more revealing about France, where a rudderless left is divided on everything except anti-fascism and there is a tendency to reduce shades of gray to black and white. “It’s like the war in Algeria,” Mr. Picon said. “The French need to come to terms with the ambiguities of their history.” He said the common French dichotomy of “hero or rogue” was simplistic. “Actually,” he added, “a lot of people were in between.”
勒·柯布西耶基金会的董事长皮康认为，这场辩论让人们更了解法国了，在这个国家，无明确目标的左派在每件事情上都会有分化，除了反法西斯主义，而且，法国人倾向于减少灰色地带，宁愿要么黑色，要么白色。“这就像阿尔及利亚的那场战争，”皮康说。“所以法国人要尽量对他们历史中模棱两可的地方妥协。”他说，“不是英雄就是痞子”这种普通的法国二分法是过分简化的。“实际上，”他补充道，“许多人都处于中间地带。”