TOKYO — Like many professional photographers, Irwin Wong, who shoots pictures for Japanese magazines, relies on digital single-lens reflex cameras for the bulk of his work — “bulk” being the operative word.
东京——与许多职业摄影师一样，为日本杂志拍照的欧文·黄(Irwin Wong)靠数码单反相机完成了许多重量级的工作——“重量级”是这里的关键词。
“It’s a beastly camera to carry around,” Mr. Wong said of his Nikon D800, which weighs about a kilogram, or 2.2 pounds, and a whole lot more when used in combination with a selection of interchangeable lenses. “You can’t replace a DSLR for work, but it’s just not that much fun.”
“拿着这台相机到处走好麻烦，”谈到自己的尼康D800时，他这样说。这台相机重约1公斤，再配上几组可换镜头，更是重上加重。“单反在工作中无可替代，不过实在是不轻松。”
To lighten his load, and to inject a bit of levity into his photography, Mr. Wong this year bought a new camera, the Fujifilm X-E1, to supplement his Nikon. He liked that one so much that he added another Fujifilm model, the X100S.
为了减轻负担，并为自己的摄影作品加入一些轻松元素，欧文·黄今年买了一台新相机——富士X-E1来作为这台尼康的替补。他很喜欢这台相机，于是又买了另一台富士的相机，X100S。
He is not the only member of the unofficial Fujifilm fan club. Over the last decade, as Fujifilm’s erstwhile rival Eastman Kodak was descending toward bankruptcy — it recently emerged from Chapter 11 proceedings — Fujifilm was transforming itself from a maker of 35-millimeter film into a provider of a range of digital imaging technologies.
他并不是富士胶片公司(Fujifilm)非正式的粉丝团里唯一的成员。过去10年间，富士以前的竞争对手伊士曼柯达(Eastman Kodak)逐步滑向破产，最近才从破产保护程序中走出来，而富士却将自己从35毫米胶卷生产商，转变成了多元化的数码影像技术供应商。
These include a new line of digital cameras, the X series, that blend Fujifilm’s digital technology with retro aesthetics reminiscent of the company’s analog heritage. At a time when sales of other cameras are slumping, the X series is selling briskly.
其中包括新的数码相机产品线：X系列。它在富士的数码科技中，融合了酷似模拟时代印记的复古审美，所以当其他相机销售下滑的时候，X系列却能异军突起。
“Fujifilm once looked a lot like Kodak,” said Christopher Chute, an analyst at International Data Corporation in Boston. “Based on some different decisions, they have gone in very different directions.”
国际数据公司(International Data Corporation)驻波士顿的分析师克里斯托弗·丘特(Christopher Chute)说，“富士曾经与柯达很像。但在做出了一些不同的决策后，它们的走向截然不同。”
While Fujifilm still makes film, it now accounts for less than 1 percent of the company’s sales. The entire imaging solutions division, which includes the company’s cameras, generates a mere 13 percent of revenue. Most revenue comes from businesses like pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and office machines, in which Fujifilm has a partnership with Xerox.
尽管富士仍然生产胶片，但它现在只占公司销售额的不到1%。包括相机在内的整个影像部门仅占总营收的13%，大部分收入来自制药、医疗器械，以及与施乐(Xerox)合作的办公设备业务。
Like other camera makers, Fujifilm has seen sales of low-end cameras suffer from the rise of the smartphone, which has put a basic point-and-shoot into every user’s pocket. Even sales of more expensive DSLRs, a business dominated by Nikon and Canon, have started to weaken this year. Analysts say a maturing of DSLR technology, which makes upgrades less essential, may be to blame.
与其他相机生产商一样，富士的低端相机销售因智能手机的崛起而遭受重创，因为这种手机让每个人的口袋里都有了一部傻瓜相机。今年，就连尼康(Nikon)和佳能(Canon)称霸的更为昂贵的数码单反市场，销售状况也开始疲软。有分析人士称，原因可能在于数码单反技术日趋成熟，因为这样一来升级就变得不那么重要了。
The Camera & Imaging Products Association, a trade group whose members include Fujifilm, Nikon, Canon and other Japanese camera makers, says overall shipments of digital cameras plunged 39 percent in volume, and 26 percent in value, from January through September.
相机影像器材工业协会(The Camera & Imaging Products Association)称，今年1月到9月，数码相机的总出货量猛跌39%，金额下滑26%。该协会是一家行业组织，成员包括富士、尼康和佳能等日本摄影器材生产商。
Camera makers have tried various things to stem the slide. Some have equipped cameras with smartphone-style features, including WiFi and mobile operating systems like Android, so that people can share photos more easily. Sony recently introduced a new kind of camera that clips onto a smartphone.
相机生产商使出浑身解数来阻止下滑。一些企业给相机加上了智能手机式的功能，比如Android这样的移动操作系统和WiFi，方便人们分享照片。索尼(Sony)最近推出了一款新的镜头机，可以卡到智能手机上使用。
The X series is a different response. These cameras fit into a category called mirrorless, which has been a relative bright spot for the industry. Shipments of “nonreflex interchangeable lens” cameras, which include some of the Fujifilm X-series devices and other mirrorless cameras, declined 13 percent in volume and 5 percent in value from January through September, the trade association said.
富士的X系列则是另一种应对策略。它们属于无反光镜相机这一大类，相对而言是行业里的亮点。相机影像器材工业协会的数据显示，今年前9个月，“无反光镜可换镜头”相机的出货量下滑了13%，金额下滑了5%。富士的部分X系列机型，以及其他一些无反光镜相机就包括在内。
Fujifilm said in its most recent quarterly earnings announcement that sales of “such high-end models as the X series proceeded smoothly.” The company says it has sold more than 700,000 X-series cameras since the first model, the X100, was introduced in 2011.
在最新的季度盈利报告中，富士表示，“X系列这样的高端机型在稳步前进。”公司还称，自从2011年推出第一款X系列机型X100后，该系列已售出了70多万台。
Masazumi Imai, the chief designer of the X series, explained at Fujifilm’s headquarters here that the company interviewed professional photographers about their preferences on everything from the pebbled plastic that covers parts of the cameras to the color of the paint on the bodies. Almost a dozen different shades of silver were considered.
X系列的首席设计师今井雅纯(Masazumi Imai)在东京的富士总部接受采访时解释，公司咨询了职业摄影师的各种喜好，从覆盖相机零件的弧形塑料到机身的颜色，不一而足。单单是考虑过的银色，就有十多种色调。
The goal was to give the cameras a certain gravitas, so that professionals would give them a try.
目标就是使这种相机显得郑重其事，能勾起专业人士的兴趣。
“When we were little, when we went into our father’s room or our grandfather’s room, there was an important-looking camera on the shelf, and we were told not to touch it because it was valuable,” Mr. Imai said. “We wanted to create that kind of look and feel.”
“我们小时候，跑到父亲或祖父的房间里，就会看到架子上摆着一台好像很重要的相机。大人告诫我们不要乱摸，因为它很矜贵，”今井雅纯说，“我们希望创造出那种外形和风格。”