FRANKFURT — Martin Winterkorn was uncharacteristically subdued last week when, on the eve of the Frankfurt auto show, he stepped into a beam of blue light to show off the latest products from the Volkswagen empire.
法兰克福——上周在法兰克福车展开幕的前夜，当文德恩(Martin Winterkorn)跨进一片蓝光照射的区域展示大众(Volkswagen)帝国的最新产品时，他看起来跟以往不同，显得有些闷闷不乐。
The chief executive certainly knew what was coming days later: allegations that Volkswagen had cheated to pass emissions tests in the United States, touching off a scandal that has called his leadership into question and seriously damaged the automaker’s reputation.
这位首席执行官显然知道几天后将会发生什么：大众集团被控为通过美国的排放检测而作弊，由此引发的丑闻让外界对他的领导能力产生质疑，也严重损害了这家汽车厂商的声誉。
Since the news broke on Friday, Volkswagen has scrambled to control the damage.
自消息在上周五曝光之后，大众一直在匆忙应对危机，竭力避免事态扩大。
Mr. Winterkorn issued an apology on Sunday, saying the company had “broken the trust of our customers and the public.” Volkswagen said it would stop selling the remainder of its 2015 model Volkswagen and Audi diesels and not offer its 2016 diesel cars, which were just arriving in showrooms in the United States.
文德恩周日发表了一份道歉声明，表示公司“辜负了消费者和公众的信任”。大众还表示，它将停止销售2015年大众品牌车型和奥迪品牌(Audi)柴油发动机车型的剩余产品，也不会推出2016年的新柴油车。后者刚刚抵达大众在美国的销售展厅。
These measures did not stop Volkswagen shares from plummeting more than 20 percent when trading opened in Europe on Monday. Analysts say that Mr. Winterkorn will have to answer tough questions — including when he and other top executives at Volkswagen, which is known for being a tightly controlled, autocratic organization, first learned of the deception.
这些措施没能阻止大众的股价在欧洲股市周一开盘后暴跌逾20%。分析人士表示，文德恩将不得不回答一些棘手的问题，包括在大众这个以严格管控和独断专行著称的组织内部，他和其他大众最高层在何时知悉了这些作弊行为。
Questions like this will most likely be the focus of a meeting scheduled for Friday of Volkswagen’s supervisory board, which Mr. Winterkorn reports to.
在定于本周五召开的大众集团监事会会议上，类似这样的问题很可能成为关注的焦点。文德恩需要向监事会汇报。
The software used to manipulate emissions tests in the United States, and the extensive attempts by Volkswagen to deflect official scrutiny before admitting misconduct this month, suggest that the cheating was not just the work of a few rogue engineers.
大众使用了特别的软件来影响美国的排放检测结果，而且在本月承认作弊行为之前，它曾无数次企图规避官方的审核。这两点表明，作弊不仅仅是少数几个胡作非为的工程师的行为。
“Either he knew, or he didn’t know, which is even worse,” said Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor at the University of Duisburg-Essen who is a longtime Volkswagen critic. “Any politician in his situation would have to resign.”
“他要么知道，要么不知道，而后者其实更为糟糕，”长期以来一直对大众持批评态度的杜伊斯堡-埃森大学(University of Duisburg-Essen)教授费迪南德·杜登霍夫(Ferdinand Dudenhöffer)说。“处在这种情况下，任何政界人士都是必须辞职的。”
German authorities said on Monday that they would conduct their own tests to make sure that Volkswagen diesels were complying with European laws.
德国当局周一表示，他们将进行自己的检测，以弄清大众的柴油车是否符合欧洲法规的要求。
The European Commission, the administrative arm of the European Union, has contacted Volkswagen as well as the Environmental Protection Agency for details, a commission spokeswoman said.
欧盟的行政分支机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)发言人表示，为了解具体情况，他们已经联系了大众和美国国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）。
Volkswagen did not respond to a request for comment.
大众集团没有回应时报的置评请求。
Volkswagen — whose brands besides Audi include Porsche, Bentley and Lamborghini — recently edged Toyota to become the world’s top seller of automobiles. But it has struggled to build a following in the United States.
除了奥迪，大众集团旗下品牌还包括保时捷(Porsche)、宾利(Bentley)和兰博基尼(Lamborghini)。最近，大众挤掉了日本的丰田(Toyota)，成为世界第一大汽车厂商。但它一直难以在美国打开市场。
It has made huge investments in the U.S. market in recent years, including building a major assembly plant in Tennessee. The company is also building a plant in Mexico to make Audi sport utility vehicles primarily for American consumers.
近几年，大众在美国投下巨资，包括在田纳西州建造一座大型装配工厂。公司还正在墨西哥建一座生产奥迪SUV的工厂，主要面向美国消费者。
Yet the company has not gained much traction. Its share of the U.S. market has been stuck at about 2 percent, and the new revelations will probably undercut its effort to lure American consumers, in part by promoting “clean” diesel engines that were supposed to be more fuel-efficient than gasoline engines, yet also peppy and environmentally responsible.
然而，这些努力并没有带来太大改观。大众在美国汽车市场所占份额依然只有2%左右，而最新暴露的这起丑闻很可能会进一步削弱它此前为吸引美国消费者所做的努力——包括“清洁”柴油机这一卖点。据其宣传，这些柴油机会比汽油发动机更节省燃料，却又动力强劲，而且环境污染小。
“I feel like I was misled,” said Tony German, a health care administrator in Austin, Tex., who owns a 2010 diesel Audi A3, one of the cars affected by the E.P.A. action. “VW has been successful in promoting their high-mileage, clean diesel engines — and now they are telling us they are neither.”
“我感觉自己被误导了，”德克萨斯州奥斯丁市的医疗行政人员托尼·日耳曼(Tony German)说道。他有一辆2010年产的装配柴油发动机的奥迪A3，正好是EPA指控大众的涉事车型之一。“大众成功地将他们的柴油发动机宣传为清洁的，而且可以支持很高里程，但现在他们却告诉我们，这两点都不是真的。”
“This is proactive deception,” Mr. German said by phone. “You can’t blame the low person on the totem pole for this.”
“这是主动的欺诈，”日耳曼接受电话采访时讲道。“你不能把这种事怪到底层员工头上。” Fitch Ratings said the E.P.A. action, and the prospect of billions of dollars in penalties, could affect Volkswagen’s debt rating, even though the automaker has ample financial resources. The accusations “could seriously undermine the group’s brand image, particularly in the U.S., where Volkswagen is already struggling to increase its market share,” Fitch said in a statement Monday.
评级机构惠誉(Fitch Ratings)表示，大众受到EPA的指控，再加上可能被处以数十亿美元罚款，这些因素可能影响惠誉对大众的债务评级，尽管大众公司资金充裕。惠誉在周一发布的一份声明中表示，这一指控“可能会严重损害该集团的品牌形象，尤其是它在美国的形象，而大众本来就一直难以提高它在美国市场上的份额。”
Several United States law firms announced plans to sue on behalf of consumers who said Volkswagen deceived them into believing they were buying environmentally friendly vehicles. Volkswagen owners could also claim the resale values of their vehicles have been damaged by the affair.
几家美国律所宣布，它们计划代表消费者对大众提起诉讼，这些消费者表示大众欺骗了他们，使他们相信自己购买的车辆是环保型的。大众车主还可以就此事造成的车辆转售价值损失，而向大众索赔。
It is possible to reduce the amount of nitrogen oxide — a gas that is a major contributor to smog and is linked to respiratory ailments including asthma, emphysema and bronchitis — emitted by diesel engines. But the technology used by Volkswagen also reduced fuel economy and performance.
降低柴油发动机排放的氮氧化物并非无法实现——这种气体是形成烟雾的主要因素，也与哮喘、肺气肿和支气管炎等呼吸道疾病的形成有关。但大众所使用降低氮氧化物的技术，也会同时降低发动机的燃油使用效率和汽车性能。
The software installed by Volkswagen on vehicles sold in the United States sidestepped this trade-off by giving a misleadingly low nitrogen-oxide reading during tests.
大众在美国销售的汽车上所安装的软件，帮助它回避了这一矛盾，手段是在检测时，对氮氧化物排放量显示一个具有误导性的低读数。
The software measured factors like the position of the steering wheel, the vehicle’s speed and even barometric pressure to sense when the car was being tested, the E.P.A. said. The car’s engine then configured itself to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxide.
EPA表示，这一软件会测量多种因素，以确定车辆是否处于被检测状态，包括方向盘位置、车辆行驶速度，乃至气压。一旦软件确定车辆正在被检测，发动机就会自行降低氮氧化物排放。
Volkswagen will be required to recall nearly half a million vehicles in the United States to fix the illegal software, the E.P.A. says.
EPA还表示，官方将要求大众在美国召回近50万辆汽车，以修正这个违反法律的软件问题。
More than half of all vehicles sold in Europe are diesels. They are popular because they typically offer better fuel economy than gasoline. For years, the E.U. put a priority on fuel economy rather than emissions and set standards for the engines that were much more lax than in the United States.
大众在欧洲销售的车辆中，有超过一半都是柴油动力车型。它们在那里比较受欢迎，因为相对于汽油发动机车辆，其节油能力更强。多年来，欧盟对汽车节油性能的重视程度，超出了排放量。欧盟为这类发动机车型所设置的排放标准，也比美国的标准宽松得多。
Pollution rules in Europe have been progressively tightened. The most recent standard, known as Euro 6, took effect on Sept. 1 for all new cars sold; United States standards are still considered more stringent.
欧洲的环保法规也在日渐收紧。该地区针对新车辆销售的最新排放标准欧6 (Euro 6)已于9月1日生效；不过相比之下，业界依然认为美国的排放标准更为严格。
E.U. officials have recognized that laboratory testing of diesel-vehicle emissions is flawed. A new procedure that’s intended to better replicate road conditions is scheduled to go into effect on Jan. 1.
欧盟官员已经意识到，柴油车辆尾气排放的实验室检测存在瑕疵。他们计划在明年1月，开始实施一项能更好地模拟实际路况的新检测程序。
If there is any consolation for Volkswagen, it might be that diesel-powered cars account for only a tiny fraction of sales in its largest market, China.
唯一有可能让大众感到安慰的一点是，在大众最大的市场中国，柴油动力汽车在总销量中只占非常小的比例。
And while Volkswagen’s reputation has probably been damaged, its most profitable vehicles in the United States are Porsche sports cars — none of which are affected by the E.P.A. action — and Audi cars, only one model of which is affected.
尽管大众的声誉可能已经因此受损，但它在美国利润最高的产品——保时捷跑车和奥迪车系受到的影响非常小，前者在这次事件中没有任何涉案车型，后者只有一款车型受到影响。
The Volkswagen cars affected are Golf, Jetta, Beetle and Passat models from 2009 through 2015 that are equipped with two-liter diesel engines.
受到影响的大众车型包括2009年至2015年间生产的配备两升柴油发动机的各款高尔夫(Golf)、捷达(Jetta)、甲壳虫(Beetle)和帕萨特(Passat)。
The plunge in Volkswagen shares, which closed down more than 17 percent on Monday, was a clear indication that investors thought that its profit and sales could suffer because of the E.P.A. accusations.
大众集团的股价在周一收盘时已经下跌了超过17%。这一暴跌清楚地显示出，投资者认为它的利润和销售会因为EPA的指控而减少。
Yet, Volkswagen is relatively immune to stock market pressure because only 12 percent of its voting shares are traded. Porsche Automobil Holding, controlled by members of the Porsche family, holds a slight majority. The German state of Lower Saxony owns 20 percent, and the sovereign wealth fund of Qatar owns 17 percent.
但相对而言，大众对于股市的压力不那么担忧，因为具有表决权的股份只有12%在市场上流通。保时捷汽车控股公司(Porsche Automobil Holding)在大众集团的持股略超50%，这家控股公司由波尔舍(Porsche)家族的成员控制。此外，德国下萨克森州(Lower Saxony)持有大众20%的股份，卡塔尔的主权财富基金则持股17%。
Stephan Weil, the prime minister of Lower Saxony, where Volkswagen has its headquarters, said in a statement on Monday, “Manipulation of an emissions test is completely unacceptable and without any justification.”
大众集团总部所在地下萨克森州的州长斯特凡·魏尔(Stephan Weil)在周一发布的一份声明中表示，“操纵排放检测的行为让人完全无法接受，此事也没有任何辩解的余地。”