Pete Nelson, an owner of TreeHouse Workshop, outside Seattle, is an expert in his field: namely, the design and building of treehouses. Such a distinction once guaranteed a book deal and, indeed, Nelson has written several lavishly illustrated books on the subject. But these days, being an expert at an esoteric trade more likely leads to a reality show, and “Treehouse Masters” has its premiere Friday on Animal Planet. It follows Nelson, 50, and his crew as they build one over-the-top arboreal home after another.
皮特·尼尔森(Pete Nelson)是一位设计和建造树屋的专家，在西雅图城外有自己的树屋工作室(TreeHouse Workshop)。这一出众的身份，曾让尼尔森拿到过一份图书出版合同，他也的确写过好几部关于树屋这个话题的图文并茂的作品。但近来，作为一名特殊领域的专家，更容易登上真人秀节目的舞台。本周五（5月31日），“树屋大师”(Treehouse Masters)这档节目在动物星球频道(Animal Planet)首播。节目跟踪了现年50岁的尼尔森及其团队在树冠顶端建造出一座又一座房子的过程。
The show unfortunately exhibits many reality-TV tropes. (When will producers quit with the quick-cut editing and ginned-up deadlines and trust that interesting people pursuing interesting passions will be interesting to viewers?) But it also has a sneaky way of reminding us, again and again, of the primordial magic of treehouses. Like when a burly man reminisces about male bonding in his family treehouse, which perches above an East Texas lake on stilts ready to collapse from rot.
可惜，这档节目展现出了太多真人秀类电视节目惯用的手法（什么时候制片人才会放弃快速剪辑和混乱的截止时间，转而相信拥有有趣追求的有趣的人，就会令观众觉得有趣呢？）。但这档节目还是以一种非常巧妙的方式，一遍又一遍地提醒着我们树屋的原始魔力。比如，一个身材魁梧的男人深情地回忆起他家树屋里，男人间的兄弟情谊。而他提及的那座位于东德克萨斯州某片湖面上方的树屋，已经因为腐化摇摇欲坠了。
Nelson is the show's engine, a high-energy, passionate builder who is touchingly obsessed with hardwoods and softwoods alike. He recently spoke about his lofty brand of architecture.
尼尔森就是这档电视节目的引擎，也是一个充满活力、富有激情的建筑师。他痴迷于硬木、软木等各种材料。最近，他谈到了自己那享有崇高声誉的建筑品牌。
Q: On the show you speak of trees almost worshipfully. What are your favorite species for building?
问：在节目中你提到树时，充满了敬意。你最喜欢用来建造树屋的树种有哪些？
A: The Douglas fir are beautiful trees and so strong. But they're also very convenient in that their structure is almost like a telephone pole. I love the Western red cedar trees that are out here in the Pacific Northwest. There are very few trees that are not treehouse-appropriate. Although cottonwoods can be massive, and their danger is dropping major limbs. On the most calm and beautiful days, there will be a gunshot sound, and a massive limb of a cottonwood tree will fall down.
答：黄杉(Douglas Fir)这种树很漂亮，又很坚固。而且它的构造几乎像个电线杆，也特别便于建造房子。我很喜欢太平洋西北沿岸常见的西洋红雪杉(Western red cedar)。很少有什么树种是不适合建造树屋的，不过，尽管棉白杨(cottonwooods)的树干十分高大，但它们的危险之处在于，大树枝经常落下来。就算是在完全没有风的好天气里，棉白杨也会发出像火炮一样的声响，主干的树枝就应声落下。
Q: Are the treehouses you design and build, some of which cost six figures, really for children?
问：你设计建造的一些树屋，造价高达六位数，真的只是为孩子们建造的吗？
A: I get calls all the time for kids' treehouses. But I think the adults who are placing the calls are hiding the fact that the treehouse is for them. Some people look at these treehouse books and say, “I want one of those.” Or they're architecture buffs. They don't have the skills to create it, but they want it. The people who pick up the phone are dreamer types, but they're also doer types. Somebody who's going to spend $200,000 on a treehouse is a go-getter.
答：我总是接到电话，请我为孩子建造树屋。但我认为这些打电话的成年人隐瞒了一件事，树屋是给他们自己建的。一些人看到这些关于树屋的书会说：“我真想要一个。”或许他们是建筑爱好者，他们并没有自己建树屋的能力，但仍然想要一个。那些拿起电话来的人是梦想家，但同时也是实干家。打算花上20万美元（约合人民币122.23万元）建一座树屋的人，是凡事志在必得的类型。
Q: Your work stretches the limits of what people may think of as a treehouse. What defines a treehouse for you?
问：你的工作扩展了人们对于树屋认知的局限性。在你看来如何定义一座树屋？
A: My definition of a treehouse has broadened substantially. In the beginning, I thought a tree-supported structure, even a supporting post on the ground, was cheating. To me, that was a stilt house. It's just being up in the trees that now defines a treehouse. If you want to be in a stilt house among the trees, is it a treehouse? Sure. It's all about sharing in the energy of the tree. However you do that is fair game.
答：我对树屋的界定被很大程度地拓展了。最初，我认为它只是一个由树作为支撑的建筑结构，哪怕有一根支撑物是在地上的，都是作弊。对我而言，那是踩着高跷的房子。而现在，只要房子在树上就叫做树屋。如果你想要一个被树冠环绕的高跷房子，那是一个树屋吗？当然是。只要是分享了树的能量就都算，无论你怎么办到，都是合理的。
Q: You practice an ephemeral architecture. Have you ever lost a treehouse to bad weather?
问：你所建造的是一种寿命有限的建筑。你曾经因为恶劣的天气损失过树屋吗？
A: One of the biggest we ever built was in San Diego County, and the owner lost it in the wildfires. Seven oak trees were involved, and the owner said that after the wildfire, you couldn't fit the ashes in a bottle. It was that gone.
答：在圣地亚哥县(San Diego County)，有我们建过的最大的一座树屋。它是在一场野外林火中被烧毁的。这场大火波及了七棵橡树，房主说，他在大火之后甚至无法将灰烬搜集起来装进一个瓶子里，什么都没了。
Q: How is the bond owners develop with a treehouse different from what they feel for their home?
问：树屋给人的感受，与人们对家的感受有何不同？
A: A home is a home and it's a wonderful, warm thing. But the difference in the treehouse is that it's a place where you are absolutely away from it all. Every one of these structures is a place to unplug and unwind. At first, I thought we'd be building backyard offices, but in 15 years I think I've done three. The use of these things is about reconnecting with natural worlds.
答：家就是家，它是那么的美好和温暖。但是树屋的与众不同之处在于，它是一个让你完全与世隔绝的地方。每一座的设计都是为了让人断绝与外界的联络、放松舒展。最初，我以为我们将要建的是后院办公室；但这15年来，我想我只建了三个那样的屋子。这些东西的作用在于，将人类和自然世界重新相连。