BEIRUT — Syria’s ability to produce chemical weapons has been destroyed and its remaining toxic armaments secured, weapons inspectors said Thursday, as President Bashar al-Assad has offered unexpectedly robust cooperation, at least so far, with a Russian-United States accord to dismantle his arsenal.
贝鲁特——武器调查人员周四表示，叙利亚生产化学武器的能力已经被摧毁，剩余的化武装备也得到了安全处置。对于俄美达成的一项销毁其化学武器储备的协议，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)至少到目前为止，给予了出人意料的积极合作。
Elimination of Mr. Assad’s manufacturing ability is the most significant milestone yet in a process that still faces a monumental task: destroying the government’s 1,290 tons of declared chemical weapons in the midst of a bloody civil war that has killed well over 100,000 people and carved up control of the country.
解除阿萨德的化武制造能力，是这个进程中目前为止最重要的里程碑。但该进程仍然面临着一项艰巨的任务，即在叙利亚内战的腥风血雨中，销毁该国政府申报的1290吨化学武器。这场内战已经导致远逾10万人丧生，国家也陷入了各方势力的割据之下。
Weapons inspectors who have been in the country just one month say that despite battles raging across the country, deep international disagreement over how to stop the war and even what United States officials say was an Israeli strike on a Syrian Army base late Wednesday night, Syria has so far met all of its commitments and deadlines.
进入该国开展活动仅一个月的武器调查人员说，尽管战火在叙利亚各地肆虐，国际上对于如何终止这场战争也存在深层分歧，甚至按美国官员所说，以色列周三深夜对叙利亚政府军的一个基地发动了袭击，但是叙利亚仍然在最后期限内兑现了所有承诺。
By doing so, Mr. Assad’s government can claim success in what it said would be a key benefit of the accord — seizing a new measure of credibility and portraying itself not as an outlaw regime but as a reliable and legitimate international player. But opponents of Mr. Assad, including the rebels, are deeply critical of the deal for that very reason — it has helped buttress his position but done nothing to stop the war.
这样一来，阿萨德政府就可以获得该协议的一个关键益处——建立一定的信誉，显示其并不是一个非法政权，而是国际社会中一个可以信赖的、合法的成员。但是阿萨德的反对者，包括反对派武装在内，之所以激烈批判该协议，也正是出于这个原因——它有助于巩固阿萨德的地位，但对终止战争毫无帮助。
“They want to tell you, ‘It’s not because you put a deadline — when we say something, we do it before the time,’ ” a pro-government Syrian journalist, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal, said of Syrian officials. “The main problem with the West, until now it never understood how the Syrian regime works. Whenever you threaten them you won’t get anything.”
“他们是想要表达，‘这不是因为你们规定了期限，我们说要做某件事，就会提前做到。’”一名亲政府的叙利亚记者在谈到叙利亚官员时说。由于担心遭到报复，这位记者要求保持匿名。“西方的主要问题就是，到目前为止，还是无法理解叙利亚政权是如何运作的。如果你威胁他们，你不会取得任何成果。”
Mr. Assad’s opponents have bitterly denounced the accord as a distraction, and they were dismayed that the chemical weapons attack in August that American officials say killed 1,400 men, women and children near Damascus led not to American military intervention, as President Obama initially threatened, but to an agreement that allows Mr. Assad’s supporters to portray him as a statesman.
阿萨德的反对者们不仅严厉地谴责这个协议避重就轻，而且还感到惊诧不满，因为8月发生在大马士革附近的化学武器袭击没有导致美国的军事干涉，而是促成了一项让阿萨德的支持者得以将他描绘为政治家的协议。美国官员称有1400名成人和儿童在那次袭击中遇害，奥巴马总统最初也威胁过会采取军事干涉。
The deal also created a de facto expectation that Mr. Assad would remain in office at least until mid-2014, when the elimination of the weapons is supposed to be complete under the agreement, critics say. And Syrians — supporters and opponents of the government alike — widely considered chemical weapons a side issue that global leaders were focusing on, rather than finding ways to end the war and its humanitarian disaster.
批评者说，该协议还导致人们预期，阿萨德会继续留任到至少2014年年中，那是协议规定的武器销毁完成时间。而叙利亚人——无论是支持还是反对政府的人——普遍认为，全球领导者把侧重点放在了化学武器这个枝节性问题上，并没有设法终结叙利亚的战争和人道主义灾难。
The government’s international opponents emphasized on Thursday that the deal was still incomplete and that they still hold Mr. Assad accountable for the suffering of Syrians. The British Foreign Office said in a statement that while the destruction of chemical facilities was “an important first milestone, it brings no relief to the Syrian people,” since the government continues to use artillery, air power and “siege tactics” against civilians.
周四，叙利亚政府在国际上的反对者强调，这个协议尚未履行完成，他们仍然要求阿萨德对叙利亚民众遭受的苦难负责。英国外交部(The British Foreign Office)在一份声明中说，虽然化武设施的销毁是“第一个重大里程碑，但它没有缓解叙利亚人民的苦难”，因为政府仍然在对平民使用火炮、空中力量和“包围战术”。
In a statement on Thursday, the international chemical weapons watchdog group, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, said Syria had disabled all of the chemical weapons production and mixing facilities it declared to inspectors, rendering them inoperable, ahead of the deadline of Friday.
监督化学武器的国际机构禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)在周四发表的一份声明中说，在最后期限本周五之前，叙利亚已经停止了该国向调查人员申报的所有化学武器生产和混合设施，并毁坏了这些设施的功能。
The organization said that its inspectors and United Nations officials had visited 39 of the 41 facilities at 21 of the 23 sites that Syria had declared to them. While the two remaining sites — where chemical weapons are developed, stored and tested — were too hazardous to visit because of fighting, chemical-making equipment had been moved to other sites that the inspectors could visit, the statement said.
该组织说，其调查人员和联合国官员视察了叙利亚申报的23处地点中的21处，41座设施中的39座。其余两处研发、存储和试验化武的地点没有去，是因为战争导致那里太过危险，无法前往，但那两个设施的化武生产设备已经转移到了调查人员可以前往的其他地点，该声明说。
“The joint mission is now satisfied that it has verified — and seen destroyed — all of Syria’s declared critical production and mixing/filling equipment,” the weapons organization’s statement said. “Given the progress made, no further inspection activities are currently planned.”
“我们核实了叙利亚申报的所有关键生产和混合/装填设备，并看到它们已被销毁，这次联合行动现在已经达到了目的。”该组织的声明说，“鉴于已经取得的进展，我们目前没有制定进一步的检查计划。”
In Washington, at a hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, questions were raised about why only 23 sites were mentioned in the statement as opposed to the 45 that American officials had said existed. Thomas M. Countryman, the State Department’s assistant secretary for international security and nonproliferation, said that the discrepancy might stem from how sites were defined, but that other details were classified and that there would be a subsequent hearing on the matter.
在华盛顿，参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)举行的一场听证会上，有人提出：美国官员曾表示有45处地点，为什么该声明只提到23处。美国国务院负责国际安全和不扩散事务的助理国务卿托马斯·康特里曼(Thomas M. Countryman)说，差异可能源于“地点”的定义方式，但相关细节是保密的，随后会召开一场有关此事的听证会。
The weapons organization’s statements throughout the process have consistently suggested that the Syrian government was putting up no apparent resistance. Some government supporters — and indeed, some rebel fighters — have criticized the deal as giving up weapons that belong to the Syrian people and are needed as a deterrent against Israel, which maintains an undeclared nuclear arsenal.
禁化武组织在整个过程中发布的声明都显示，叙利亚政府没有给此事制造明显阻力。政府的一些支持者——事实上还有一些反政府武装分子——批评这个协议说，它放弃了属于叙利亚人民的武器，而叙利亚人需要用这些武器来威慑拥有核武器但秘而不宣的以色列。
But Syrian officials said that the weapons were of little practical use and that giving them up allowed them to claim new moral standing and draw attention to the push for the elimination of Israel’s nuclear weapons.
但是叙利亚官员说，这些武器没有什么实际用处，放弃化武可以让政府在道德上占到新的位置，并把注意力吸引到销毁以色列核武的问题上。
They have blamed the rebels for the deadly chemical attacks while independent experts analyzing a United Nations report on the attacks have said the evidence points to government culpability and to the weapons having been fired from government bases overlooking Damascus.
叙利亚政府把致人死命的化武袭击归咎于反政府武装。但独立专家分析了联合国一份相关报告后表示，从证据来看，负有罪责的是叙利亚政府，化学武器是从政府军俯瞰大马士革的军事基地发射出的。