NARAHA, Japan — In this small farming town in the evacuation zone surrounding the stricken Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, small armies of workers in surgical masks and rubber gloves are busily scraping off radioactive topsoil in a desperate attempt to fulfill the central government’s vow one day to allow most of Japan’s 83,000 evacuees to return. Yet, every time it rains, more radioactive contamination cascades down the forested hillsides along the rugged coast.
日本樽叶——农业小镇樽叶位于受损的福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant)疏散区内，在这里，不少戴着医用口罩和橡胶手套的工人忙着处理放射性表土层。这是种孤注一掷的尝试，为的是履行日本中央政府的承诺，有朝一日让8.3万疏散者中的大部分人回家。然而，每次下雨，都有更多的放射性污染物沿着嶙峋海岸一带覆盖植被的山坡倾泻而下。
Nearby, thousands of workers and a small fleet of cranes are preparing for one of the latest efforts to avoid a deepening environmental disaster that has China and other neighbors increasingly worried: removing spent fuel rods from the damaged No. 4 reactor building and storing them in a safer place.
不远处，数千名工人和一小队起重机正在做准备工作，以进行最新一轮的工作，来避免环境灾难进一步升级。他们要从受损的四号反应堆建筑中取出乏燃料棒，并将其贮存到更安全的地方。这场灾难已让中国等邻国的忧虑与日俱增。
The government announced Tuesday that it would spend $500 million on new steps to stabilize the plant, including an even bigger project: the construction of a frozen wall to block a flood of groundwater into the contaminated buildings. The government is taking control of the cleanup from the plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company.
本周二，日本政府宣布，将花费5亿美元（约合30.6亿元人民币）来采取多项新措施，以使该电站稳定下来，其中包括进行一项更大的工程：建造一堵冰墙来阻止大量的地下水流入受到污染的建筑。政府正从电站运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）手中接管清污工作。
The triple meltdown at Fukushima in 2011 is already considered the world’s worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. As the environmental damage around the plant and in the ocean nearby continues to accumulate more than two years after the disaster, analysts are beginning to question whether the government and the plant’s operator, known as Tepco, have the expertise and ability to manage such a complex crisis.
2011年，福岛第一核电站的三座反应堆发生熔毁事故。这被视为切尔诺贝利之后世界范围内最为严重的核事故。灾害发生两年多后，电站周边和临近海域里的环境损害仍持续累积。一些分析人士开始怀疑，日本政府和东电是否具备处理这种复杂危机的专业知识和能力?
In the past, they say, Tepco has resorted to technological quick fixes that have failed to control the crisis, further damaged Japan’s flagging credibility and only deflected hard decisions into the future. Some critics said the government’s new proposals offer just more of the same.
他们声称，东电过去一直求助于快速的技术修补，不仅未能控制住危机，还进一步损害了日本本已衰减的信誉，而且只是把艰难的决策拖到以后进行。有批评人士称，政府的新建议如出一辙。
“Japan is clearly living in denial,” said Kiyoshi Kurokawa, a medical doctor who led Parliament’s independent investigation last year into the causes of the nuclear accident. “Water keeps building up inside the plant, and debris keeps piling up outside of it. This is all just one big shell game aimed at pushing off the problems until the future.”
医学专家黑川清(Kiyoshi Kurokawa)去年牵头进行了针对核事故起因的国会独立调查。“很显然，日本一直拒不承认现实，”他说。“电站里的水量不断增加，电站外的垃圾不断累积。所有的应对都不过是大玩花招，目的是把问题推给将来。”
Problems at the plant seemed to take a sharp turn for the worse in July with the discovery of leaks of contaminated water into the Pacific Ocean. Two weeks ago, Tepco announced that 300 tons of water laced with radioactive strontium, a particle that can be absorbed into human bones, had drained from a faulty tank into the sea.
福岛第一核电站的形势似乎在今年7月急转直下，当时发现，有污水流入太平洋。两周前，东电宣布，有300吨含放射性锶的污水从漏水的水箱流入了大海，而放射性锶的颗粒物可以被人骨吸收。
Contaminated water, used to cool fuel in the plant’s three damaged reactors to prevent them from overheating, will continue to be produced in huge quantities until the flow of groundwater into the buildings can be stopped — a prospect that is months or even years away. At the same time, setbacks in the effort to clean up the countryside are further undermining confidence in the government’s ability to deliver on its promises and eroding the public’s faith in nuclear power.
这些水被用来冷却电站的三座受损反应堆的核燃料，以防止它们过热。除非可以阻止地下水流入建筑物，污水还将大量产生。然而阻止水流进入预计还要等上数月，乃至数年。与此同时，户外的清污工作屡屡受挫，进一步损害了外界对政府履行承诺的信心，还蚕食了公众对核能的信任。
Officials and proponents of the cleanup say difficulties are inevitable given the monumental scale of the problems. But critics describe the cleanup efforts to date as grandiose but ultimately ill-conceived public works projects begun as a knee-jerk reaction by the government’s powerful central ministries to deflect public criticism and to protect the clubby and insular nuclear power industry from oversight by outsiders.
政府官员和清污工作的拥护者声称，鉴于问题的规模之大，困难在所难免。但在批评者口中，迄今为止的清污工作虽然雄心勃勃，但最终都沦为计划不周的公共工程类项目，它们的启动来自中央政府强势部门的下意识反应，目的是转移公众的批评，以及保护排外保守的核工业免受外界的监督。
Some wondered whether Tuesday’s announcement might have been made with an eye to the International Olympic Committee, which will decide shortly on the site of the 2020 Summer Games.
一些人质疑，政府周二的声明是否是做给国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)看的？因为奥委会即将决定2020年夏季奥运会的归属。
The biggest public criticism has involved the government’s decision to leave the cleanup in the hands of Tepco, which has seemed incapable of getting the plant fully under control. Each step Tepco has taken seems only to produce new problems. The recent leaking tank was one of hundreds that have been hastily built to hold the 430,000 tons of contaminated water at the plant, and the amount of that water increases at a rate of 400 tons per day. On Wednesday, nuclear regulators said radiation levels at other spots near the tanks had risen, suggesting the possibility of other, still undetected, leaks.
公众最大的意见在于，政府决定把清污工作交到东电手中，而该公司似乎一直无力完全掌控电站的情况。看起来，东电采取的每一步措施都会导致新问题涌现。最近泄漏的这个水箱不过是电站所在地匆忙建设的数百个储水箱之一。这些水箱储存了43万吨污水，而且还在以每天400吨的速率增加。本周三，核能监管机构表示，水箱附近还有其他地方的辐射水平升高了。这表明，可能存在其他未检测出来的泄漏点。
Critics complain that the government-run committee that has overseen Tepco’s cleanup is loaded with nuclear industry insiders and overseen by the trade minister, Toshimitsu Motegi, whose ministry is in charge of promoting nuclear power.
批评人士抱怨，监管东电清污工作的政府委员会里充斥着核能业的圈内人，而且监督该委员会的又是经济产业大臣茂木敏充(Toshimitsu Motegi)，他所在的部门负责推动核能发展。
“The response to the contaminated water problem has been left to Tepco, and has ended up looking like a game of whack-a-mole,” Mr. Motegi acknowledged on Monday.
茂木敏充周一承认，“应对污水问题的责任落到了东电头上，结果却看起来像是按下葫芦起了瓢。”
Mr. Motegi’s ministry will now take charge of the plant’s cleanup. This will include the plan to stop the influx of groundwater into the reactor buildings by sealing them off behind a mile-long subterranean wall of ground frozen by liquid coolant.
茂木敏充负责的经济产业省将很快接管福岛核电站的清污工作，其中包括阻止地下水流入反应堆建筑的计划，方法是用液体冷却剂冰冻出一堵长1英里的地下墙体，以阻隔地下水。
Some critics have dismissed the “ice wall” as a costly technology that would be vulnerable at the blackout-prone plant because it relies on electricity the way a freezer does, and even more so because it has never been tried on the vast scale that Japan is envisioning and was always considered a temporary measure, while at Fukushima it would have to endure possibly for decades.
考虑到该电站容易停电的现状，而“冰墙”又像冰柜一样依赖于电力，一些批评人士斥之为脆弱的昂贵技术，特别是这项技术还没有以日本计划的这种规模尝试过，而且它一直被认为是种临时举措。但在福岛，它可能必须坚持几十年。
But industry experts said the technology had been used frequently to stabilize ground in big construction projects, like the Big Dig highway project in Boston.
不过，业界专家称，这项技术过去经常在大型建设项目中用来稳固地基，例如在波士顿的“大挖掘”(Big Dig)高速路项目中。
Nuclear experts also questioned the government’s longer-term plan to extract the fuel cores from the reactors, which if successful would eliminate the major source of contamination. Some doubted whether it was even technically feasible to extricate the fuel because of the extent of the damage during the explosions and subsequent meltdowns.
核专家也质疑了政府从反应堆提取堆芯燃料的长期计划。一些人怀疑，取出燃料在技术上是否可行，原因是核电站的爆炸和随后的熔毁破坏了太多东西。但如果计划成功，就能消除主要污染源。
Even at Three Mile Island, where the reactor vessel remained intact, removing the fuel by remote-controlled machinery was a tricky engineering feat. While great strides have been made in robotics since then, damage to the containment vessels at Fukushima makes the problems there much more complex.
在美国三哩岛核泄漏事故中，反应堆容器完好无损。即便如此，通过遥控机械移除燃料也是一次棘手的工程壮举。尽管从那时到现在，机器人技术取得了重大进展，福岛核电站的安全壳受损却使问题变得复杂得多。
Molten fuel not only piled up like wax from a candle on the vessel floor, as at Three Mile Island, but ran through cracks into the piping and machinery below. Some experts warn that it may even have found its way into the ground beneath the buildings.
熔融的燃料不仅像熔蜡一样堆在容器地面上，就像三哩岛事故中一样，而且会穿过裂缝流到下面的管道和机械上。一些专家警告，它可能已经一路渗透到了建筑物下面的土壤中。
Scientists have played down the current threat from contaminated water, saying the new leaks are producing small increases in radioactivity in the Fukushima harbor that remain far lower than immediately after the March 2011 crisis.
有科学家对当前来自污水的威胁轻描淡写，称新的泄漏造成了福岛海域放射性水平的小幅度上升，不过仍然远低于2011年3月危机刚发生后的水平。
“This continued leakage is not the scale of what we had originally,” said Ken O. Buesseler, a scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod who has long studied the disaster. “But it’s persistent.”
“现在的持续泄漏并不如我们最初遇到的规模，但它非常持久，”美国科德角的伍兹霍尔海洋研究所(Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)的科学家肯·O·布塞勒(Ken O. Buesseler)说。他长期致力于研究这场灾难。
Perhaps the principal threat of the radioactive water is to the Japanese government, which after all the missteps cannot afford to look feckless before a citizenry that is already distrustful of its pronouncements and dubious about nuclear energy.
或许最受放射性污水威胁的还是日本政府。在种种失误之后，它已不能在公民面前显得不负责任，而后者已经不信任政府的声明，并且对核能充满怀疑。
In view of that, some experts dismiss the current cleanup plans as just a way of defending the status quo by convincing the public that the damage can be undone, and that more drastic steps, like paying more compensation to displaced residents or permanently shutting the nation’s other nuclear power plants, are unnecessary.
有鉴于此，一些专家把当前的清污计划斥之为维护现状，方法就是说服公众，损失可以消除，而更激进的措施是不必要的，例如向被迫迁移的居民支付更多补偿金，或是永久关闭该国其他核电站。
“This is just a tactic to avoid taking responsibility,” said Harutoshi Funabashi, a sociologist at Hosei University who led a critical examination of the recovery efforts by the Science Council of Japan, a group of about 2,000 academics. “Admitting that no one can live near the plant for a generation would open the way for all sorts of probing questions and doubts.”
“这只是一个来避免承担责任的策略，”法政大学(Hosei University)的社会学家船桥晴俊(Harutoshi Funabashi)说。“承认几十年内没人能在核电站旁生活的话，将为各种深入问题和质疑敞开大门。”他牵头进行了日本学术会议(Science Council of Japan)针对修复工作展开的重要审查活动。该团体由大约2000名学者组成。
Mr. Funabashi and other critics say Japan should consider other options, including the tactic adopted by the former Soviet Union at Chernobyl of essentially capping the shattered reactors in concrete and declaring the most contaminated towns off limits for a generation.
船桥晴俊等批评人士说，日本应该考虑其他选项，比如前苏联在切尔诺贝利采取的策略，以混凝土全面覆盖破碎的反应堆，并宣布在几十年内禁止进入污染最严重的村镇。
Japanese officials said the large amounts of groundwater under the plant mean that just covering the reactors with concrete would fail to contain the spread of radiation. They also said giving up on a large portion of Fukushima was not an option in a densely populated country where land remains a scarce commodity.
日本官员称，反应堆下面的大量地下水意味着，仅仅用混凝土覆盖反应堆将无法遏制放射性物质的蔓延。他们还说，在这个人口稠密的国家，土地仍然是稀缺品，放弃福岛的一大部分土地是不可能的。
But they also suggested that the reason for eschewing a Soviet-style option may be the fear that failure could turn a wary public even more decisively against Japan’s nuclear industry.
不过他们还指出，之所以摒弃苏联方案，就是害怕这种承认失败的做法将令忧心忡忡的公众更加坚决地反对日本的核工业。
“If we just buried the reactors, no one would want to see the face of another nuclear power plant for years,” said Shunsuke Kondo, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, an advisory body in the Cabinet Office.
“如果我们简单地埋葬了反应堆，多年内都不会有人想要看到另一座核电站了，”日本原子能委员会(Atomic Energy Commission)主席近藤骏介(Shunsuke Kondo)说。该组织是日本内阁府的顾问机构。
Unease about the worsening situation is evident among the residents of evacuated communities like Naraha. The cleanup here has gone more quickly than in other evacuated towns, with most decontamination expected to be finished sometime next year. Even so, town officials said that when they asked Naraha’s 7,600 residents whether they would move back, most said they would refuse as long as the plant remained in its current unstable state.
对于情况不断恶化的不安也在樽叶等被疏散社区的居民之中显露出来。这里的清污速度要比其他被疏散的城镇快得多，大多数工作预计将在明年的某个时间点完成。即便如此，当地官员称，当他们问樽叶的7600名居民是否想要搬回时，大多数人称，只要核电站仍然处于当前的不稳定状态，他们就将拒绝。
“Every three days, there seems to be a new problem up there,” said Yukiei Matsumoto, the mayor of Naraha, whose town hall is now housed in a conference center at a university just outside the 12-mile-radius evacuation zone. “The longer this continues, the more distant the townspeople feel from Tepco and the national government.”
“隔不了三天，这里就会出个新问题，”樽叶町町长松本幸英(Yukiei Matsumoto)说。“这种情况持续得越久，本地民众就会与那些来自东电和国家政府的人变得愈发疏离。”他的町政府现在设在12英里半径的疏散区边缘的一座大学会议中心中。