KARACHI, Pakistan — Usman, who limps on a leg bowed by the polio he caught as a child, made sure that his first three children were protected from the disease, but he turned away vaccinators when his youngest was born.
巴基斯坦卡拉奇——乌斯曼(Usman)因幼时患小儿麻痹症成了瘸腿，他让自己的前三个孩子都接种了疫苗以免再患这种疾病，但却在最小的孩子出生时拒绝了前来接种疫苗的人。
He was furious that the Central Intelligence Agency, in its hunt for Osama bin Laden, had staged a fake vaccination campaign, and infuriated by American drone strikes, one of which, he said, had struck the son of a man he knew, blowing off his head. He had come to see the war on polio, the longest, most expensive disease eradication effort in history, as a Western plot.
中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)令他怒火中烧，因为他们在抓捕奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)时策划了一场虚假的疫苗接种活动，他还对美国的无人机袭击很恼火，他说有一架飞机袭击了他认识的一个人的儿子，把他的头炸掉了。他把根除小儿麻痹症这场史上历时最久、代价也最昂贵的行动看做是西方的一次密谋。
In January, his 2-year-old son, Musharaf, became the first child worldwide to be crippled by polio this year.
他两岁的儿子穆沙拉夫(Musharaf)在1月份因患小儿麻痹症致残，这是今年全世界第一个因此病致残的案例。
“I know now I made a mistake,” said Usman, 32, who, like many in his Pashtun tribe, uses only one name. “But you Americans have caused pain in my community. Americans pay for the polio campaign, and that’s good. But you abused a humanitarian mission for a military purpose.”
今年32岁的乌斯曼和很多普什图族(Pashtun)人一样只有一个名字，他说，“我现在知道我犯了一个错。但是你们美国人给我的社区里带来了痛苦。美国人为根除小儿麻痹症运动出钱，是好事。但你们却利用一个人道主义使命为军事目的服务。”
Anger like his over American foreign policy has led to a disastrous setback for the global effort against polio. In December, nine vaccinators were shot dead here, and two Taliban commanders banned vaccination in their areas, saying the vaccinations could resume only if drone strikes ended. In January, 10 vaccinators were killed in Nigeria’s Muslim-dominated north.
这种对美国外交政策的愤怒，给全球抗击小儿麻痹症的行动构成了极大影响。去年12月，9名接种人员在这里被开枪打死，两名塔利班(Taliban)头目在他们控制的区域禁止进行疫苗接种，声称除非停止无人机袭击，否则不能继续接种。1月份，有10名接种人员在穆斯林占多数的尼日利亚北部被打死。
Since then, there have been isolated killings — of an activist, a police officer and vaccinators — each of which has temporarily halted the campaign.
在那之后，杀害活动人士的事件一直在发生，这些事件相互之间没有联系，被打死的有一名活动人士、一名警官和疫苗接种人员，这些事件都导致疫苗接种行动一度被迫暂停。
The war on polio, which costs $1 billion a year and is expected to take at least five more years, hangs in the balance. When it began 25 years ago, 350,000 people a year, mostly children, were paralyzed. Last year, fewer than 250 were, and only three countries — Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan — have never halted its spread at any point.
抗击小儿麻痹症行动每年要投入10亿美元，预计至少要进行5年，但它现在已经是命悬一线。25年前在这场行动开始时，每年有35万人因该病瘫痪，其中大部分是孩子。去年只有不到250人因此瘫痪，而且只有3个国家始终未能遏制小儿麻痹症的传播，分别是阿富汗、尼日利亚和巴基斯坦。
While some experts fear the killings will devastate the effort here, Pakistan’s government insists that they will not, and has taken steps to ensure that. Vaccinators’ pay was raised to $5 a day in the most dangerous areas, police and army escorts were increased and control rooms were created to speed crisis responses.
一些专家担心杀人事件将会严重破坏在这里的行动，但巴基斯坦政府坚持称不会如此，而且已经采取措施确保不会受到影响。在最危险的地区，疫苗接种人员每天的报酬增加到了5美元，还增派了警察和军队护送，设立了控制室以快速应对危机。
But the real urgency to finish the job began earlier, for a very different reason. Two years ago, India, Pakistan’s rival in everything from nuclear weapons to cricket, eliminated polio.
然而，完成这项工作的紧迫性在此前就已经显现出来了，原因与此事完全无关。从核武器到板球运动等等一切都与巴基斯坦为敌的印度，两年前根除了小儿麻痹症。
“Nothing wounded our pride as much as that,” said Dr. Zulfiqar A. Bhutta, a vaccine expert at Aga Khan University’s medical school.
阿迦汗大学(Aga Khan University)疫苗专家佐勒菲卡尔·A.·布塔(Zulfiqar A. Bhutta)说，“没有什么比这件事更伤他们的自尊了。”
Bill Gates, who is the campaign’s largest private donor and calls beating the disease “the big thing I spend the majority of my time on,” said that Pakistan’s desire to not be further humiliated “is our biggest asset.”
根除小儿麻痹症行动头号个人捐助者比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)称，根除这一疾病“是占据了我大部分时间的大事，”他说巴基斯坦人不想再这么耻辱下去的急切心理“是我们最大的本钱。”
After India’s success and hints from the World Health Organization that it might issue travel warnings, Pakistan’s government went on an emergency footing. A cabinet-level “polio cell” was created. Vaccinators’ routine pay doubled to $2.50. More than 1,000 “mobilizers” were hired to visit schools and mosques to counter the ever-swirling rumors that the vaccine contained pork, birth control hormones or H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS.
在印度成功根除小儿麻痹症，以及世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)暗示可能会发布旅游警告之后，巴基斯坦政府采取了紧急措施。他们成立了一个内阁级“小儿麻痹症专项小组”。接种人员的每日报酬翻了一倍增加到2.5美元。政府雇佣1000多名“宣传员”到学校、寺庙辟谣，因为不断有谣言称这些疫苗含有猪肉、控制生育的荷尔蒙或者是导致艾滋病的HIV病毒。
Mullahs were courted to endorse vaccination. They issued 24 fatwas, and glossy booklets of their directives were printed for vaccinators to carry.
他们说服毛拉来支持疫苗接种。毛拉发布了24条伊斯兰圣令，还把他们的指示印成精装小册子让疫苗接种人员随身携带。
Perhaps most important, local command was given to deputy commissioners, who have police powers that health officials lack.
最重要的或许是，行动的指挥权交给了各地的警察局副局长，他们具有卫生官员所没有的警务权力。
Now Pakistan is closer than ever. Although cases will not peak until after the summer monsoons, there have been only 21 so far this year. A few years ago, 39 substrains of the polio virus circulated; now only two do. About 300,000 children live in areas too dangerous for vaccinators, but almost all the sewage samples from those areas are clear of the virus.
巴基斯坦现在已经前所未有地接近目标。虽然在夏季雨季结束之前发病案例还不会达到高峰，但到目前为止今年只有21例发病案例。几年前，流行的小儿麻痹症病毒种类有39种，但现在只有2种。有约30万儿童生活在极度危险地区，接种人员无法到达，但这些地区的污水样本几乎全部显示没有小儿麻痹症病毒。
Ultimately, though, success will depend on more than political will and the rivalry with India. In the wake of the recent killings, it will rely most of all on individual acts of courage, like those by prominent imams who pose for pictures as they vaccinate children.
但是，最终胜利并不取决于政治意愿和与印度的竞争。最近几起杀人事件发生之后，最后的成功大部分将取决于个人的英勇之举，比如一些有影响力的伊玛目会在相机前摆出给儿童接种疫苗的样子。
Or by Usman, who appeared with his polio-stricken son, Musharaf, in a fund-raising video asking rich Persian Gulf nations to buy vaccines for poor Muslims elsewhere.
或者是取决于像乌斯曼这样的人，他和自己患小儿麻痹症的儿子穆沙拉夫一起录制了一段募捐视频，请求富裕的波斯湾国家为其他地方的贫穷穆斯林捐款购买疫苗。
Or by volunteers, like the women of the Bibi family, in Karachi, who formed a vaccination team. Two of them, Madiha, 18, and Fahmida, 46, were gunned down in December. Television news showed female relatives keening over their bodies. Not only are those women still vaccinating, but Madiha’s 15-year-old sister also volunteered for her spot.
或者是取决于那些志愿者，就像卡拉奇的比比(Bibi)家族的女人那样，成立一个接种小组。其中有两人，18岁的马迪哈(Madiha)和46岁的法赫米达(Fahmida)在去年12月被枪杀。电视新闻中曾播出中她们的女性亲戚跪在两人尸体旁的画面。不仅这些妇女依然在进行接种活动，连马迪哈15岁的妹妹也志愿加入其中。
“All the children of Pakistan are our children,” said Gulnaz Shirazee, 31, a sister-in-law who leads the team. “It’s up to us to eradicate polio. We can’t stop. If we’re too afraid, then who will do it?”
带领这个小组的妯娌古尔纳兹·希拉兹(Gulnaz Shirazee)今年31岁，她说，“巴基斯坦所有的孩子都是我们的孩子。根除小儿麻痹症依靠我们。我们不能停下来。如果我们太害怕，那还有谁会去做这件事？”
Frustration, Then a Setback
受挫，然后是倒退
The isolation and poverty of the Pashtun tribe underlie its resistance. Many of its imams are from Islam’s fundamentalist Deobandi sect, which emerged in the 19th century as a reaction to the British conquest.
普试图部落的与世隔绝和贫穷是其抵抗的原因。这里的很多伊玛目都来自秉承伊斯兰原教旨主义的迪欧班地派(Deobandi)，这个教派是在19世纪反对英国占领时期出现的。
Many Pashtun neighborhoods receive few government services like health clinics, paved streets or garbage pickup, but get shiny new billboards trumpeting the polio fight paid for by Western donors.
普试图很多社区很少得到政府提供的服务，比如卫生诊所、铺建道路或者是收捡垃圾等，但是却得到了由西方捐款者付钱买的崭新的大幅广告牌，来宣传与小儿麻痹症作斗争。
“People tell us, ‘We need schools, we need roads, we need housing, and all you bring our children is polio, polio, polio,’ ” said Madiha, a black-veiled Gadap vaccinator.
一名蒙着黑纱的咖大普接种人员马迪哈(Madiha)说，“人们告诉我们，‘我们需要学校，我们需要道路，我们需要住房，可你们给我们的孩子带来的除了小儿麻痹还是小儿麻痹。’”
In the middle of last year, it became known that in 2011, the C.I.A. had paid a local doctor to try to get DNA samples from children inside an Abbottabad compound to prove they were related to Bin Laden.
去年年中，人们得知2011年中央情报局曾买通当地一名医生，以获取阿伯塔巴德一处宅邸内孩子的DNA样本，证明他们与本·拉登有血缘关系。
Even though the doctor, Shakil Afridi, who is now serving a 33-year sentence for treason, was offering a hepatitis vaccine, anger turned against polio drops.
尽管这个叫做沙基勒·阿夫里迪(Shakil Afridi)的医生提供的只是一种肝炎疫苗，但人们的愤怒却转移到了小儿麻痹症疫苗上。阿夫里迪因叛国罪被判处33年有期徒刑，目前正在服刑中。
Leaders of the polio eradication effort could not have been more frustrated. They were already fighting new rumors that vaccinators were helping set drone targets because they have practices like marking homes with chalk so that follow-up teams can find them. Now, after years of reassuring nervous families that the teams were not part of a C.I.A. plot, here was proof that one was.
根除小儿麻痹症行动的领导者更是感到前所未有的挫败。他们已经开始应对新一轮的谣言，称疫苗接种人员是在帮助锁定无人机袭击的目标，因为他们用粉笔在住房上画上标记，这样后面跟进的人就能找到他们。年复一年的劝说，就为了让紧张的家人相信接种小组和中情局阴谋无关，结果现在有了一个证据证明是有关的。
“It was a huge, stupid mistake,” Dr. Bhutta said.
布塔医生说，“这是个极大的、愚蠢的错误。”
At the Front Lines Again
重返前线
The country’s new determination has also brought Rotary International back to the front lines.
巴基斯坦下定决心后还令国际扶轮(Rotary International)组织回到了第一线。
The club, founded in Chicago in 1905, started the global polio eradication drive in 1988. It has had chapters in what is now Pakistan since 1927, and is now led by Aziz Memon, a hard-driving textile magnate.
这个1905年在芝加哥成立的俱乐部从1988年开始参与全球根除小儿麻痹症行动。它从1927年起就在现属巴基斯坦境内的一些地方设有分支机构，目前的领导人是纺织业巨头、作风硬朗的阿齐兹·梅蒙(Aziz Memon)。
Mr. Memon, 70, and other Rotary-affiliated executives have used their money and political connections to keep the pressure on. They compensated the killed vaccinators’ grieving relatives and held news conferences at which the families urged others to continue fighting.
今年70岁的梅蒙和国际扶轮组织其他附属组织的高管利用他们的金钱和政治关系维持此事的运转。他们为被杀害的接种人员亲属支付补偿金，并召开新闻发布会，让这些家人呼吁其他人继续奋战。
Rotarians also work in places that terrify government officials. In an industrial neighborhood in Karachi, where both gangs and the Taliban hold sway after dark, Abdul Waheed Khan oversaw a Rotary polio clinic in his school, Naunehal Academy. A big, gregarious man, he angered the Taliban by admitting girls to his academy and offering a liberal arts education instead of only Koran study. His only security was local teenagers who ride motorcycles beside his car to keep anyone from pulling up alongside.
扶轮组织还在其他一些让政府感到害怕的地方开展工作。卡拉奇的一个工业区天黑以后就成了流氓和基地组织的天下，但阿卜杜勒·瓦希德·汗(Abdul Waheed Khan)在自己的纳尼哈尔学校(Naunehal Academy)里开设了一个扶轮小儿麻痹症诊所。他身材高大、喜欢社交，因为允许女孩进入自己的学校、并开设文科课程而不仅仅是古兰经教学而惹怒了塔利班。他仅有的保镖是当地的一些青少年，他们骑着摩托车行驶在他的汽车两侧，以防有人从旁边截车。
In March, he hosted Dr. Robert S. Scott, the 79-year-old Canadian chairman of Rotary’s polio committee, who flew in to vaccinate children to prove that the fight would go on despite the December killings.
3月，他接待了扶轮组织小儿麻痹症委员会的加拿大主席、79岁的罗伯特·S·斯科特(Robert S. Scott)医生，他飞到这里来为孩子们接种，就为了证明虽然有12月的杀人事件，这场斗争还是会继续下去。
“I had a fatwa put on my head,” Mr. Khan said in April as he led a tour of the clinic. “They said I was Jewish. I had a friend issue a counter-fatwa saying I was a good Muslim.”
4月份汗在介绍他的诊所时说，“我头顶着一个伊斯兰圣令呢。他们说我是犹太人。我有个朋友发布了一个反圣令，说我是个好穆斯林。”
On May 13, Mr. Khan was killed by gunmen who also wounded his 1-year-old daughter.
5月13日，汗被人开枪打死，他1岁的女儿也受了伤。
His clinic will not close. “No one can replace Waheed, but life has to go on,” Mr. Memon said.
他的诊所也将被关闭。梅蒙说，“没有人能代替瓦希德，但生活总得继续下去。”
‘This Is Good Work’
‘这是在做好事’
Rotary also sponsors a tactic used to reach children from areas too dangerous for home visits: “transit point” vaccinating.
扶轮组织还赞助了一个叫做“转运点”接种的策略，来接近那些因为住的地方很危险而不能接受家访的孩子。
At a tollbooth on the highway into Karachi, Ghulam Jilani’s team takes advantage of an army checkpoint.
在通往卡拉奇的一条高速公路的一个收费站，古拉姆·吉拉尼(Ghulam Jilani)的小组利用军队的一个检查站来开展工作。
As soldiers stop each bus to search for guns, Rotary vaccinators hop aboard. On a typical day, they reach 800 children.
在士兵拦下大巴搜查枪支时，扶轮组织的接种人员就跳上车。正常情况下，他们一天可以给800个孩子接种。
Yes, Mr. Jilani said, the soldiers’ presence may intimidate some resistant families into complying. Also, he added brightly: “We scare them a little. We say, ‘You are entering a city with the disease. Don’t you want your children safe?’ ”
吉拉尼说，在场的士兵可能会迫使一些有反抗心理的家庭进行合作。他还高兴地补充道：“我们吓唬了他们一下。我们说，‘你马上要进入一个有病毒的城市。你难道不想保保护孩子的安全吗？’”
About 90 percent comply, he said, sometimes after a public argument between a father who believes the rumors and a mother, now outside their home and sometimes backed by other women on the bus, insisting that the children be protected.
他说，约有90%的人这么做了，有时候父母会当着大家的面争执起来，父亲相信谣言，而女人如今是出门在外，再加上有时能得到大巴上其他女人的支持，会坚持要求让孩子得到保护。
Near the Afghan frontier, where thousands of children live in valleys under Taliban control, teams do the same at military roadblocks. At hospitals, which are usually guarded by soldiers, nurses will pack extra doses of the vaccine on ice for families willing to smuggle it to neighbors.
在阿富汗边境地区有数千孩子生活在塔利班控制的山谷中，这些小组同样利用军队设置的路检给孩子接种。在通常由士兵把守的医院，护士会把额外的疫苗用冰保存起来，让那些愿意秘密带给邻居的家庭带走。
Some frontier clan chiefs have lost their government stipends for opposing vaccination, and officials have threatened to deny national identity cards to their clans. But the chiefs are in a bind; the Taliban have assassinated many for cooperating with the government.
一些边境地区的宗族首领因为反对接种疫苗失去了政府给他们提供的补助，官员还威胁要取消他们宗族的国民身份证。但是这些首领进退两难；塔利班已经暗杀了很多与政府合作的人。
Mr. Memon of Rotary opposes what he called “these coercive gimmicks.”
扶轮组织的梅蒙反对那些他称作“强迫伎俩”的做法。
“We can’t twist arms,” he said. “We want to win them over with love and affection.”
他说，“我们不能强扭。我们要用爱和关心来说服他们。”
Among hundreds of men wearing turbans and topees at Karachi’s main train station, Muhammad Arshad stood out in his blue baseball cap with Rotary’s bright yellow gearwheel.
在卡拉奇主要火车站，穆罕默德·艾尔沙德(Muhammad Arshad)头上戴着印有扶轮组织亮黄色齿轮标志的蓝色棒球帽，在数百名带着头巾和头盔帽的男人中显得很抢眼。
Threading his way through the crowd squatting on Platform 1, he picked out children under age 5.
在穿过占据在1站台的人群时，他看到一个不到5岁的孩子。
“What a nice boy,” he said to Sohail Ameer, chucking his infant, Abadur Rahann, under the chin. “May I give him drops against polio?”
“多好的孩子，”他一边轻轻摸着苏海尔·阿米尔(Sohail Ameer)的孩子阿巴杜尔·拉安(Abadur Rahann)的下巴一边说，“我能给他打小儿麻痹疫苗吗？”
Mr. Ameer agreed, and it was over in seconds. Abadur looked nervous, but he did not howl and squirm like some others.
阿米尔同意了，几秒钟就打好了。阿巴杜尔看起来有点紧张，但没有像别的孩子那样嚎叫挣扎。
After the December killings, Mr. Arshad worried briefly, he said. “But then I thought: This is good work, and God will protect me.”
12月的杀人事件之后，艾尔沙德曾短暂地担心过一段时间。他说，“但是我后来想：这是做好事，神会保佑我的。”
Friendly strangers came up to the Rotary table to suggest he play it safe and quit. He replied that the railroad police would protect him.
友好的陌生人来到扶轮组织桌前，建议他保险起见还是别做了。他回答说铁路警察会保护他。
His wife tried the hardest.
他的妻子竭力劝他。
“But I told her,” he said. “If a man has to die, he can die even at home. I’m going back to work.”
“但是我告诉她，”他说，“如果一个人要死，待在家里都会死。我要继续去工作。”