The author of “David and Goliath” compares Michael Lewis to Tiger Woods: “I’ll never play like that. But it’s good to be reminded every now and again what genius looks like.”
《大卫与歌利亚》(David and Goliath)的作者把迈克尔·刘易斯(Michael Lewis)比作老虎伍兹(Tiger Woods): “我永远也做不到那个地步，但不时意识到天才就是那个样子，总归是一件好事。”
What’s the best book you’ve read so far this year?
今年你读过的最好的一本书是什么？
There have been many. I loved Jonathan Dee’s new novel, “A Thousand Pardons.” The best science book I read was Adam Alter’s “Drunk Tank Pink,” which is a really provocative look at how much our behavior is contextually determined. 
有很多好书。我喜欢约拿森·迪伊(Jonathan Dee)的新小说《一千个抱歉》(A Thousand Pardons)。我读过的最好的科学类图书是亚当·阿尔塔(Adam Alter)的《醉颜酡红》(Drunk Tank Pink)，这是一本很刺激的书，讲述我们的行为在多大程度上由周围的环境所决定。
Which writers do you find yourself returning to again and again — reading every new book and rereading the old? 
有没有什么作家的书让你一读再读？他出的新书你会看，旧书也会重读？
Did I mention Lee Child? The two contemporary writers whom I consider as role models are Janet Malcolm and Michael Lewis. I reread Malcolm’s “Psychoanalysis: The Impossible Profession” just to remind myself how nonfiction is supposed to be done. I love how ominous her writing is. Even when she is simply sketching out the scenery, you know that something wonderful and thrilling is about to happen. Lewis is tougher, because what he does is almost impossible to emulate. “The Big Short,” one of the best business books of the past two decades, was about derivatives. I read Lewis for the same reasons I watch Tiger Woods. I’ll never play like that. But it’s good to be reminded every now and again what genius looks like. 
我说起过李·柴尔德(Lee Child)吗？当代作家里有两个人被我视为榜样：詹尼特·马尔科姆(Janet Malcolm)和迈克尔·刘易斯。我看马尔科姆的《精神分析：不可能的职业》(Psychoanalysis: The Impossible Profession)是为了提醒自己，非虚构写作应当是这样的。我喜欢她写作中那种预兆感。即便只是简单地勾勒出一个场面，也会让你觉得有什么精彩震撼的事要发生了。刘易斯更强硬一些，因为他的成就很难赶超。《大空头》(The Big Short)是关于金融衍生品的，它是过去20年来最好的商务书籍之一。我读刘易斯的理由就和看老虎伍兹打球一样。我永远也做不到那个地步，但不时意识到天才就是那个样子，总归是一件好事。
Your new book is in part about underdogs. Who are your favorite underdog writers — underappreciated, yet to be recognized, or altogether forgotten? 
你的新书里有一部分是关于不得志的人。你最喜欢的“不得志”作家是谁？就是那些被低估的，没有受到承认的，甚至已经被人遗忘的作家。
The most influential thinker, in my life, has been the psychologist Richard Nisbett. He basically gave me my view of the world. Years ago, he wrote a book called “The Person and the Situation” with Lee Ross. If you read that book, you’ll see the template for the genre of books that “The Tipping Point” and “Blink” and “Outliers” belong to. That book changed my life. A few years ago, I learned that it was out of print and had been out of print for some time — which broke my heart. (Thankfully there’s a new edition.) 
对我的人生影响最大的思想家是心理学家理查德·尼斯贝特(Richard Nisbett)，他奠定了我的世界观。若干年前，他与李·罗斯(Lee Ross)合著了一本《个人与环境》(The Person and the Situation)。如果你读过这本书，就能找到《引爆点》(The Tipping Point)、《眨眼之间》(Blink)和《异类》(Outliers)这种书的模版。这本书改变了我的生活。几年前，我听说它已经绝版了好一阵，真是让我心碎。谢天谢地，现在又有新版了。
Who are your favorite social science writers? Anyone new and especially smart we should pay attention to? 
你最喜欢的社会科学作家是谁？有没有什么值得关注的出色的新作家呢？
I mentioned Adam Alter, who is a psychologist at New York University. I also really like Adam Grant, who is a psychologist at Penn and the author of “Give and Take.” What really excites me as a sports fan, though, is all the smart sports books coming from an academic perspective: “The Sports Gene,” by David Epstein; “The Numbers Game,” by Chris Anderson and David Sally; and “The Wages of Wins” and “Stumbling on Wins,” by Dave Berri and others. 
我提起过亚当·阿尔塔(Adam Alter)，他是纽约大学的心理学家。我也很喜欢亚当·格兰特(Adam Grant)，他是宾夕法尼亚的心理学家，写过《付出与得到》(Give and Take)。我是个体育爱好者，有趣的是，我发现聪明的体育类书籍都有学术角度，比如大卫·爱泼斯坦(David Epstein)的《运动基因》(The Sports Gene)，克里斯·安德森(Chris Anderson)与大卫·沙里(David Sally)的《数字游戏》(The Numbers Game)以及戴夫·波利(Dave Berri)和其他人合著的《胜利的报偿》(The Wages of Wins)以及《通往胜利的障碍》(Stumbling on Wins)。
Many a book is now touted as “The Tipping Point” for X or Y, or generally “Gladwellian.” What do you make of the many imitators and homages? 
很多书都用“相当于某某领域内的《引爆点》”来做宣传，或者说是“格拉德威尔式的”某某。对于这些模仿者和致敬者，你是怎么想的？
I’m flattered, naturally. Although I should point out that it is sometimes said that I invented this genre. I did not. Richard Nisbett and Lee Ross did. 
我当然是深感荣幸。不过，我得指出，有时候，有人说是我创造了这种类型的书，其实并不是这样。应当归功于理查德·尼斯贝特和李·罗斯。
What books, to your mind, bring together social science, business principles and narrative nonfiction in an interesting or innovative way?
在你心目中，什么书结合了社会科学、商业规律和非虚构写作，同时既有趣又有创意呢？
Can I return again to Michael Lewis? Bringing together social science and business principles is easy. Doing that and telling a compelling story is next to impossible. I think only Michael Lewis can do it well. His nonbusiness books like “The Blind Side,” by the way, are even better. That book is as close to perfect as a work of popular nonfiction can be. 
我能回到迈克尔·刘易斯吗？把社会科学和商业规律结合起来，这很容易。但把它们结合起来，还能讲个引人入胜的故事，那就是近乎不可能做到的事了。我觉得只有迈克尔·刘易斯能做到。顺便说一句，我觉得他讲述非商业领域的书写得更好，比如《盲目一侧》(The Blind Side)。作为通俗非虚构类书籍，那本书近乎完美。
Did you identify with any fictional characters as a child? Who was your literary hero?
你小时候喜欢过什么小说里的人物吗？你的英雄是谁？
In my mid-adolescence, my friend Terry Martin and I became obsessed with William F. Buckley. This makes more sense when you realize that we were living in Bible Belt farming country miles from civilization. Buckley seemed impossibly exotic. We used to go into Toronto and prowl the used-book stores on Queen Street looking for rare first editions of “The Unmaking of a Mayor” and “God and Man at Yale.” To this day I know all the great Buckley lines. Upon coming to Canada for a speech, for example, he is asked at the border for the purpose of his visit:
青春期到一半的时候，我和朋友特里·马丁(Terry Martin)迷恋威廉姆·F·巴克利(William F. Buckley)。主要是因为，我们生活在“圣经带”的农场，离文明世界隔着好几英里。巴克利在我们眼里很有异国情调。我们曾经去多伦多，溜进女王街的二手书店，寻找《市长的逊位》(The Unmaking of a Mayor)和《耶鲁的神与人》(God and Man at Yale)珍贵的初版。直到如今，我还记得巴克利所有精彩的句子。比如有一次他到加拿大演讲，在边检站被问起来加拿大有什么目的：
Buckley: “I have come to rid Canada of the scourge of socialism.”
巴克利：“我来，是为了替加拿大除掉社会主义的祸患。”
Guard: “How long do you intend to stay?”
卫兵：“你打算呆多久？”
Buckley: “24 hours.”
巴克利：“24小时。”
In southern Ontario farming country when I was growing up, we considered that kind of thing deeply hilarious. 
我成长在南方安大略的乡村，所以觉得这样的话实在太逗了。
In general, what kinds of stories are you drawn to? Any you steer clear of? 
一般来说，你喜欢什么样的题材，又会避免什么样的题材？
I don’t think I will ever write about politics or foreign policy. I feel like there is so much good writing in those areas that I have little to add. I also like to steer clear of writing about people whom I do not personally like. My rule is that if I interview someone, they should never read what I have to say about them and regret having given me the interview. 
我觉得自己不会动笔去写政治和外交题材。这个领域里已经有很多好书，我没什么可以增补的。我也会避免去写那些我个人不喜欢的人。我有这样一个原则，如果我去采访某人，那么等他们读到我写他们的东西之后，绝不会后悔接受了我的采访。
What’s the last book to make you laugh out loud? To cry? And the last book that made you angry? 
你读过的上一本让你大笑、哭泣或是愤怒的书是什么？
I read Jeremy Adelman’s biography of Albert O. Hirschman early this year and was deeply moved by it. Hirschman wasn’t just a man with a thousand extraordinary adventures (fighting fascists in Spain, smuggling Jews out of France, writing “Exit, Voice, and Loyalty” and a handful of other unforgettable books). He was also wise and decent and honest. I finished that book with tears in my eyes. 
今年年初我看了杰里米·阿德尔曼(Jeremy Adelman)为阿尔伯特·O·赫希曼(Albert O. Hirschman)做的传记，深受感动。赫希曼生平有无数精彩的冒险事迹，比如在西班牙和法西斯分子作战、帮犹太人逃出法国、写了《出口、声音与忠诚》(Exit, Voice and Loyalty)等几本令人难忘的书，而且他还是一个聪明、正派，诚实的人。我含着眼泪读完了这本书。
What books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?
人们在你的书架上会惊讶地发现什么书？
I have — by conservative estimate — several hundred novels with the word “spy” in the title. 
保守估计，我有大概好几百本小说，书名里都带“间谍”二字。
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be? 
如果能推荐总统读一本书，那你会推荐哪一本？
The new Lee Child, of course! It might be nice for him to escape for a few hours to a world where one man can solve every one of the world’s problems with nothing but his wits and his fists. 
当然是李·柴尔德的新书啦！能进入那个凭智慧和拳头就能解决世上所有问题的世界，暂时逃避一会儿，对于总统来说感觉一定很好。
Disappointing, overrated, just not good: What book did you feel you were supposed to like, and didn’t? Do you remember the last book you put down without finishing?
令人失望，受到高估，不怎么好看……，有没有什么书你本来觉得自己会喜欢，结果却不喜欢？你记不记得上一本没能读完的书是什么？
I feel terrible for saying this. But I started reading “The Cuckoo’s Calling” before I knew it was by J. K. Rowling, and I couldn’t finish it. Is there something wrong with me? 
要说这个让我觉得很难受。不过我读《布谷鸟的呼唤》(The Cuckoo’s Calling)时，还不知道它是J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)写的，结果我没能读下去。我有什么不对吗？
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know? 
如果你能和某个作家见面，不管是死去的还是在世的，那你想见谁，你想问他点什么？
Shakespeare’s wife, of course. So I could settle this whole thing once and for all. 
当然是莎士比亚的妻子啦。这样我就能一举解决这个悬案了。
If you could meet any character from literature, who would it be?
如果你能和文学里的某个人物见面，那你又想见谁呢？
I’d like to go for a long walk on the Hampstead Heath with George Smiley. It would be drizzling. We would end up having a tepid cup of tea somewhere, with slightly stale biscuits. I would ask him lots of questions about Control, and he would evade them, gracefully. 
我想和乔治·史迈利（George Smiley，间谍小说作家勒·卡雷笔下人物——译注）一起在汉普斯特荒野长时间地散步。肯定会很有意思，最后我们可以一起喝杯温乎乎的茶，吃几块不是那么新鲜的饼干。我会问他关于“老总”（Control，小说中人物——译注）的很多问题，而他会优雅地回避它们。
What book have you always meant to read and haven’t gotten around to yet? Anything you feel embarrassed not to have read?
有没有什么你一直想读又一直没能读的书？有没有什么书你因为没读过，所以觉得很尴尬？
I have never read any Tolstoy. I felt badly about this until I read a Bill Simmons column where he confessed that he’d never seen “The Big Lebowski.” Simmons, it should be pointed out, has seen everything. He said that everyone needs to have skipped at least one great cultural touchstone. 
我从来没读过托尔斯泰的书。我对此觉得很糟糕，直到我看了比尔·西蒙斯(Bill Simmons)的一篇专栏文章，说他从没看过《谋杀绿脚趾》(The Big Lebowski)。应该指出，西蒙斯什么都看过。他说每个人都需要至少跳过一个伟大的文化里程碑。
What do you plan to read next?
你接下来打算读什么？
Something with the word “spy” in the title.
某本名字里带“间谍”的书。