Newcomers, establishment stars and even a pair of French “robots” shared the spotlight at the 56th annual Grammy Awards ceremony on Sunday night, reflecting a changed music business in which top celebrities command constant attention yet a monster hit can come from anywhere.
洛杉矶——周日晚上，新人、老将、甚至有两个法国“机器人”在第56届格莱美年度颁奖典礼上分享聚光灯，反映出音乐界的变化——顶级明星得到持续关注，但是超级金曲可能来自任何地方。
Daft Punk, a French duo who hide their faces under robot-like helmets and have become elder statesmen of the electronic dance music, won four prizes including album of the year for “Random Access Memories” and record of the year for “Get Lucky,” their ubiquitous hit with Pharrell Williams and Nile Rodgers.
法国二人组合“蠢朋克”(Daft Punk)把脸藏在机器人式的头盔下面，以电子舞曲的前辈的身份获得了四项大奖，包括凭《随机存储器》(Random Access Memories)获得的年度最佳专辑奖和凭《好运来》(Get Lucky)获得的年度最佳唱片奖，后者是他们和法瑞尔·威廉姆斯(Pharrell Williams)、尼尔·罗杰斯(Nile Rodgers)合作的大热金曲。
Macklemore & Ryan Lewis, a hip-hop duo from Seattle who quickly went from the indie fringe to the top of the charts, were the biggest winners of the night with four awards, including best new artist and most of the Grammys’ rap categories, beating giants like Jay Z and Kanye West.
来自西雅图的嘻哈二人组马克尔莫和赖安·路易斯(Macklemore & Ryan Lewis)很快从独立音乐边缘来到了流行音乐排行榜的顶端，成为当晚的最大赢家，获得四项大奖，包括最佳新人奖和格莱美说唱类的大部分奖项，打败了Jay Z和坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)这样的巨星。
And Lorde, a 17-year-old New Zealander who in less than a year went from uploading songs to the Internet in obscurity to a nine-week run at No. 1, won song of the year and best pop solo performance for “Royals,” a stark and sensuous sendup of the fantasies of conspicuous consumption in pop. (Record of the year recognizes a recording of a song; song of the year is for songwriting.)
17岁的新西兰人洛德(Lorde)在不到一年的时间里从默默无闻地把歌曲上传到互联网上，变成了连续九周在榜单上排名第一的歌手。她获得了年度最佳歌曲奖，且凭《贵族》(Royals)获得了最佳流行单曲表演奖。这首歌曲是对流行文化挥霍幻想的讽刺，质朴而又感性（年度最佳唱片奖表彰的是对一首歌的录制；年度最佳歌曲奖表彰的是歌曲创作）。
“Thank you everyone who has let this song explode,” Lorde, whose real name is Ella Yelich-O’Connor, said when accepting the prize for song of the year. “Because it’s been mental.”
“感谢每一位让这首歌爆发的人，”洛德在领取年度最佳歌曲奖时说。她的真名是艾拉·叶利奇-奥康纳(Ella Yelich-O’Connor)。“因为它是一首关于精神的歌。”
Yet the incumbent stars of the music world were also very much part of the show. It opened with Beyoncé and Jay Z performing a steamy version of “Drunk in Love,” from Beyoncé’s new album. That album, “Beyoncé,” caused a sensation in the music business when it was released by surprise last month, instantly becoming a major news story around the world.
但是音乐界现在的大明星们也是这场音乐秀的重要组成部分。一开场，碧昂斯(Beyoncé)和Jay Z性感地演唱了《醉在爱里》(Drunk in Love)，这首歌来自碧昂斯的新专辑——《碧昂斯》。这张专辑出人意料地在上个月发行，在音乐界引起轰动，很快成为世界各地的重大新闻。
And in keeping with the Grammys’ focus on flashy live spectacle, the show included 21 performances, often in special or unusual combinations. Metallica played its classic “One” with the piano virtuoso Lang Lang; Pink sang while performing acrobatics suspended above the stage; and Willie Nelson, Kris Kristofferson, Merle Haggard and Blake Shelton smirked their way through “Okie From Muskogee” and “Highwayman.”
秉承格莱美对绚丽现场表演的重视，这场音乐秀包括21个表演节目，大多以特别或不寻常的组合演绎。“金属”(Metallica)和钢琴名家朗朗合奏了乐队的经典作品《一》(One)；“粉红佳人”(Pink)一边演唱，一边悬挂在舞台上方表演杂技；威利·尼尔森(Willie Nelson)、克里斯·克里斯托弗森(Kris Kristofferson)、默尔·哈格德(Merle Haggard)和布莱克·谢尔顿(Blake Shelton)演唱《马斯科吉的俄克拉荷马州人》(Okie From Muskogee)和《拦路强盗》(Highwayman)时从头笑到尾。
In what Grammy organizers hoped would be a heartwarming showstopper, 33 gay and straight couples were officially married — by Queen Latifah, deputized by Los Angeles County — during a performance of Macklemore & Ryan Lewis’s marriage-equality anthem “Same Love,” which also featured Madonna.
如格莱美组织者所期，下面一个活动十分感人，赢得了阵阵掌声：33对同性恋和异性恋情侣正式结婚了，证婚人是洛杉矶县指定的奎因·莱提法(Queen Latifah)。婚礼伴随着马克尔莫和赖安·路易斯(Macklemore & Ryan Lewis)赞美婚姻平等权利的歌曲《同样的爱》(Same Love)，参与演唱的还有麦当娜(Madonna)。
The wedding segment led to some criticism from conservatives. On Sunday afternoon, after news of the weddings was reported by The New York Times, Bryan Fischer, the director of issue analysis of the conservative American Family Association, said on Twitter that the Grammys were featuring “sodomy-based wedding ceremonies.”
婚礼环节引起了保守派的批评。周日下午，在《纽约时报》报道了婚礼的消息后，保守的美国家庭协会(American Family Association)的问题分析主任布莱恩·费舍尔(Bryan Fischer)在Twitter上说格莱美奖的最大特色是“鸡奸婚礼”。
Among the other big winners of the night, Bruno Mars, whose rising pop profile will bring him to the Super Bowl halftime show next Sunday, took best pop vocal album for “Unorthodox Jukebox.”
当晚的其他大赢家还有布鲁诺·马尔斯(Bruno Mars)，他凭借《怪异点唱机》(Unorthodox Jukebox)获得了最佳流行演唱专辑。他在流行音乐界地位的上升把他带到了下周日的超级碗半场秀上。
Jay Z won his 19th Grammy for best rap/sung collaboration for “Holy Grail,” featuring Justin Timberlake. Accepting it, he said he wanted to thank God “a little bit for this award,” and, holding up the trophy, sent a message to his 2-year-old daughter, Blue Ivy: “Look, Daddy got a gold sippy cup for you!”
Jay Z第19次获得格莱美奖，凭借和贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)对唱的《圣杯》(Holy Grail)获得了最佳说唱/演唱对唱奖。他在领奖的时候说“获这个奖他多少要感谢上帝”，举起奖杯的时候，他给两岁的女儿布卢·艾薇(Blue Ivy)传了个口信：“看，爸爸给你赢了个金的喝水杯！”
Vampire Weekend won best alternative music album for “Modern Vampires of the City,” and Imagine Dragons, a young alternative band that had one of the biggest hits of the year with “Radioactive,” won best rock performance for that song.
吸血鬼周末(Vampire Weekend)乐队凭《现代城市吸血鬼》(Modern Vampires of the City)获得了最佳另类音乐专辑奖。梦龙(Imagine Dragons)乐队是个年轻的另类乐队，他们的《放射性》(Radioactive)是年度热门歌曲之一，他们凭借此歌获得了最佳摇滚表演奖。
But in keeping with the Grammys’ reverence for older rock acts, most of the awards in that field went to graying heroes from decades ago. Led Zeppelin won its first Grammy ever for “Celebration Day,” a concert recording from its reunion in 2007, and Black Sabbath took best metal performance for the song “God Is Dead?” Best rock song went to “Cut Me Some Slack,” a jam between Paul McCartney and the surviving members of Nirvana.
但是秉承格莱美对老式摇滚表演的尊敬，摇滚类的大部分奖项都颁给了几十年前的老英雄们。齐柏林飞艇(Led Zeppelin)乐队凭《庆祝日》(Celebration Day)首次获得格莱美奖，《庆祝日》是2007年该乐队重组后的一个音乐会录像带；黑色安息日(Black Sabbath)乐队凭借《上帝死了？》(God Is Dead?)获得了最佳金属乐演奏奖。最佳摇滚歌曲奖颁给了《放我一马》(Cut Me Some Slack)，这首歌是保罗·麦卡特尼(Paul McCartney)和涅槃(Nirvana)乐队的剩余队员合作的一首即兴歌曲。
Accepting the award, Mr. McCartney, described the origins of the song in a phone call from Dave Grohl.
麦卡特尼在领奖时说这首歌的起源是戴夫·格洛尔(Dave Grohl)的一次电话。
“He said to me, ‘Come to me, come along and we’ll do a jam on “Long Tall Sally,” ’ ” Mr. McCartney said. “I said: ‘No, we’ve been there, we’ve done that. We should just make something up.’ And this was it.”
“他对我说，‘来我这儿吧，来吧，咱们即兴演唱《高个子萨莉》(Long Tall Sally)，’”麦卡特尼说，“我说：‘不，咱们已经唱过那个了。咱们应该弄点新的。’这就是我们弄的。” 
The show was also drenched in Beatlemania as part of the music industry’s celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the Beatles’ first appearance on “The Ed Sullivan Show.” Ringo Starr, introduced by a blabbering Black Sabbath, sang his song “Photograph,” and later joined Mr. McCartney during his performance of “Queenie Eye.” Projects by Mr. McCartney won three more awards: best boxed set (“Wings Over America”), best surround sound album and best music film (both for “Live Kisses”).
这场音乐秀弥漫着披头士狂热，是音乐界纪念该乐队首次在艾德·苏利文秀(The Ed Sullivan Show)亮相50周年的一部分。林戈·斯塔(Ringo Starr)由喋喋不休的黑色安息日乐队介绍上场，演唱了自己的歌曲《照片》(Photograph)，后来在麦卡特尼表演《奎尼之眼》(Queenie Eye)时又加入了演唱。麦卡特尼的作品赢得了另外三个奖项：最佳合集（《“双翼”美国行》[Wings Over America]），最佳环绕立体声专辑和最佳音乐录影带（后两项都是凭借《热烈的吻》[Live Kisses]）。
As the music industry has struggled over the last decade, the importance of the Grammy ceremony has only grown, offering invaluable media promotion and an avenue for minting a new pantheon of young pop stars.
音乐圈在过去十年里艰难挣扎，所以格莱美颁奖礼显得更加重要，它能提供珍贵的媒体宣传机会，并为塑造年轻流行音乐明星的新万神殿提供了一个平台。
The performances also featured Imagine Dragons with the rapper Kendrick Lamar for a hard-charging and surprisingly cohesive set that had stars in the audience like Steven Tyler singing along, and Taylor Swift dancing with awkward abandon.
音乐表演的亮点还包括梦龙乐队和说唱歌手肯德里克·拉马尔(Kendrick Lamar)的演唱，他们的演唱特别令人激动，出人意料地具有凝聚力，使得观众席上的一些明星，比如史蒂芬·泰勒，也跟着唱，泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)也跟着笨拙、狂热地起舞。
Mr. Lamar, a rap protégé of Dr. Dre, was nominated for seven awards but shut out of them all. The night’s other big losers included Taylor Swift, who had been up for four awards, and Drake, who had been nominated for five.
说唱歌手拉马尔是Dr. Dre的门徒，他获得了七项提名，但是全部没有得奖。当晚的其他大输家包括泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)和德雷克(Drake)，他们分别获得了四项提名和五项提名。
Justin Timberlake won three prizes, including best R&B song for “Pusher Love Girl” and two in conjunction with Jay Z. But while Mr. Timberlake’s comeback album, “The 20/20 Experience,” was last year’s biggest-selling album, he was shut out of the top categories.
贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)获得了三个奖项，包括凭《烈爱成瘾》(Pusher Love Girl)获得的最佳说唱歌曲奖，以及和Jay Z共享的两个奖项。汀布莱克的回归专辑《傲视天下》(The 20/20 Experience)是去年销量最大的专辑，他却没有因此获得顶级大奖。
Mr. Williams, who was a prominent guest on Daft Punk’s album — and acted as spokesman for the band in accepting most of its awards, calling them “the robots” — won producer of the year, nonclassical, for his work on records by Jay Z, Robin Thicke, Jennifer Hudson and Mayer Hawthorne.
威廉姆斯是蠢朋克乐队专辑最著名的客人，也是这个乐队接受大部分奖项时的代言人，他称他们两个是“机器人”。他获得了年度非古典乐类最佳制作人奖，凭借的是他在Jay Z、罗宾·西克(Robin Thicke)、詹妮弗·哈德森(Jennifer Hudson)和迈耶·霍桑(Mayer Hawthorne)的录音带中的工作。
All but 10 of the 82 awards of the night were given out in a nontelevised ceremony on Sunday afternoon, which was more glamorous than it has been in the past, but as ever was plagued with no-shows by many winners.
但是82个奖项中有十个是在周日下午的非电视直播的颁奖礼上颁发的，这个仪式比过去迷人，但是跟以往一样，因为很多获奖者没有表演而让人苦恼。
Still, records were broken and significant achievements were also made in the early segment. Terri Lyne Carrington became the first woman to win the best jazz instrumental album category for “Money Jungle: Provocative in Blue,” based on a classic 1963 album by Duke Ellington, Charles Mingus and Max Roach.
不过，颁奖礼前面的部分也打破了纪录，取得了重大成就。泰瑞·琳·卡林顿(Terri Lyne Carrington)成为第一个获得最佳爵士器乐专辑的女人，凭借的是《金钱丛林：蓝色兴奋剂》(Money Jungle: Provocative in Blue)，基于艾灵顿公爵(Duke Ellington)、查尔斯·明格斯(Charles Mingus)和马克斯·罗奇(Max Roach)1963年的经典专辑。
And in a twist, three classical categories were won by Maria Schneider, a composer renowned for her work in jazz. Her album “Winter Morning Walks” took best contemporary classical composition, best classical vocal solo (for the soprano Dawn Upshaw) and best engineered album, classical. (It was also cited as one of the projects by David Frost, who won producer of the year, classical.)
令人意外的是，三个古典类的奖项由玛利亚·施耐德(Maria Schneider)获得，她是一个以爵士乐闻名的作曲家。她的专辑《冬日清晨漫步》(Winter Morning Walks)获得了最佳当代古典作曲奖、最佳古典乐独唱奖（女高音歌手道恩·厄普肖[Dawn Upshaw]）和最佳古典乐设计专辑奖（大卫·弗罗斯特[David Frost]亦因此专辑获得年度最佳古典乐制作人奖）。
Accepting the composition prize, Ms. Schneider spoke passionately about how technology has both hurt musicians and given them new tools. She complained about the continuing piracy problem but also pointing out that her album, which cost $200,000 to record, was paid for with the help of crowd funding.
在领取作曲奖时，施耐德激情澎湃地谈到科技如何既伤害了音乐人，也给他们提供了新方法。她抱怨不断发生的盗版问题，也指出她花费20万美元录制的专辑是通过众筹才得以完成的。
“We need a sustainable business so we can continues as music creators,” Ms. Schneider said.
“我们需要一个可持续的音乐产业，这样我们才能继续音乐创作，”施耐德说。