After eight years spent studying a 1.8-million-year-old skull uncovered in the republic of Georgia, scientists have made a discovery that may rewrite the evolutionary history of our human genus Homo.
科学家在对格鲁吉亚出土的一颗180万年前的头骨，花费8年时间进行研究后，得出了一项可能会改写人属(Homo)进化史的发现。
It would be a simpler story with fewer ancestral species. Early, diverse fossils — those currently recognized as coming from distinct species like Homo habilis, Homo erectus and others — may actually represent variation among members of a single, evolving lineage.
人类进化的故事会比现在理解的更简单，人类祖先的物种数也会更少。早先发现的不同化石，实际上可能代表着同一个不断进化的世系中出现的变化。现在，这些化石被认为分属不同的物种，如能人(Homo habilis)、直立人(Homo erectus)等。
In other words, just as people look different from one another today, so did early hominids look different from one another, and the dissimilarity of the bones they left behind may have fooled scientists into thinking they came from different species.
换句话说，就像今天人类看起来千差万别一样，原始人之间的体貌特征也有差异。而它们遗留下来的骨骼之间相似性很小，或许导致科学家们误以为它们来自不同的物种。
This was the conclusion reached by an international team of scientists led by David Lordkipanidze, a paleoanthropologist at the Georgian National Museum in Tbilisi, as reported Thursday in the journal Science.
以上结论是一个由各国科学家组成的团队得出的，研究结果周四发表在了学术期刊《科学》(Science)上。这个团队由第比利斯的格鲁吉亚国家博物馆(Georgian National Museum)的古人类学家戴维·罗德基帕尼泽(David Lordkipanidze)牵头。
The key to this revelation was a cranium excavated in 2005 and known simply as Skull 5, which scientists described as “the world’s first completely preserved adult hominid skull” of such antiquity. Unlike other Homo fossils, it had a number of primitive features: a long, apelike face, large teeth and a tiny braincase, about one-third the size of that of a modern human being. This confirmed that, contrary to some conjecture, early hominids did not need big brains to make their way out of Africa.
得出以上这个结论的关键是2005年发掘出的一颗头骨，简称为“5号头骨”。科学家形容它是“世界上第一颗”年代如此久远的，“保存完好的成年原始人头骨”。不像其他人属化石，这块头骨有若干项原始的特征：像猿的长脸，牙齿大，脑腔极小，只有现代人类的大约三分之一。与一些猜测相反，这也印证了早期的原始人不需要很大的脑容量就能走出非洲。
The discovery of Skull 5 alongside the remains of four other hominids at Dmanisi, a site in Georgia rich in material of the earliest hominid travels into Eurasia, gave the scientists an opportunity to compare and contrast the physical traits of ancestors that apparently lived at the same location and around the same time.
“5号头骨”是在格鲁吉亚德马尼西(Dmanisi)发现的，这里有着古人类走进亚欧大陆的大量最早期遗存。“5号头骨”连同一起发现的另外四个古人类的遗骨，为科学家们提供了一个机会，可以对显然在大致相同的时间、居住在相同地点的人类祖先的生理特征，进行对照和比较。
Dr. Lordkipanidze and his colleagues said the differences between these fossils were no more pronounced than those between any given five modern humans or five chimpanzees. The hominids who left the fossils, they noted, were quite different from one another but still members of one species.
罗德基帕尼泽博士和他的同事表示，这些化石之间的差异，并不比任意五名特定的现代人，或五只黑猩猩之间的差别更明显。他们指出，遗留下化石的这些原始人，尽管各自之间有很大差异，但仍然属于同一个物种。
“Had the braincase and the face of Skull 5 been found as separate fossils at different sites in Africa, they might have been attributed to different species,” a co-author of the journal report, Christoph Zollikofer of the University of Zurich, said in a statement. Such was often the practice of researchers, using variations in traits to define new species.
研究报告的共同作者，苏黎世大学(University of Zurich)的克里斯托弗·佐里科夫(Christoph Zollikofer)在一份声明中写道，“如果‘5号头骨’的脑腔或面部是在非洲不同的地点，作为相互分离的化石发现的，可能会被归为不同的物种。”研究人员常常是这样做的，他们会根据体貌特征的差异来定义新的物种。
Although the Dmanisi finds look quite different from one another, Dr. Zollikofer said, the hominids who left them were living at the same time and place, and “so could, in principle, represent a single population of a single species.” He and his Zurich colleague, Marcia Ponce de León, conducted the comparative analysis of the Dmanisi specimens.
佐里科夫说，尽管德马尼西发现的化石各自差异都很大，但留下这些骨头的原始人在相同的时间居住在相同的地点，因此“理论上应当代表着同一物种中的同一群体”。他和他在苏黎世的同事玛西亚·庞塞·德莱昂(Marcia Ponce de León)对德马尼西的样本进行了比较分析。
“Since we see a similar pattern and range of variation in the African fossil record,” Dr. Zollikofer continued, “it is sensible to assume that there was a single Homo species at that time in Africa.” Moreover, he added, “since the Dmanisi hominids are so similar to the African ones, we further assume that they both represent the same species.”
“由于我们在非洲的化石记录中，见到过相同的模式和相同程度的差异，”佐里科夫接着写道，“可以合理地推定，当时在非洲有一个单一的人属(Homo)物种。”另外，他还补充说，“由于德马尼西的原始人与非洲的原始人如此相似，我们进一步认为它们代表着同一个物种。”
But what species? Some team members simply call their finds “early Homo.” Others emphasized the strong similarities to Homo erectus, which lived between two million and less than one million years ago. Tim D. White, a paleoanthropologist at the University of California, Berkeley, called it “the most primitive H. erectus yet known,” noting that “it is more similar than any other yet found to early Homo from eastern Africa,” a group of hominids estimated to have lived 2.3 million years ago.
但到底是什么物种呢？研究团队的某些成员直接把他们的发现称为“早期人”(early Homo)。另一些人则强调，这些化石与直立人有很强的相似性。直立人存在的时间是在200万年前至不到100万年前。加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)古人类学家蒂姆·D·怀特(Tim D. White)将其称为“已知的最原始的直立人”，指出“它比其他任何已知的化石，都更像东非的早期人属物种。”据估计，那些原始人生活在230万年以前。
A few scientists quibbled that the skull looks more like Homo habilis or questioned the idea that fossils in Africa all belong to Homo erectus, but there was broad recognition that the new findings were a watershed in the study of evolution. “As the most complete early Homo skull ever found,” Dr. White wrote in an e-mail, “it will become iconic for Dmanisi, for earliest Homo erectus and more broadly for how we became human.”
一些科学家反驳说，这个头骨更像能人，也有人对非洲的化石都属于直立人的说法提出了疑问，但是科学家们广泛承认，这个新发现是进化研究中的一座分水岭。“作为现今发现的最完整的早期人属头骨，”怀特在电子邮件中写道，“它会成为德马尼西的象征，成为最早的直立人的象征，它也更广泛地象征着人类的进化历程。”
Dr. White, who has excavated hominid fossils in Ethiopia for years, said he was impressed with “the total evidentiary package from the site that is the really good news story here.” Further, he said, he hoped the discovery would “now focus the debate on evolutionary biology beyond the boring ‘lumpers vs. splitters’ ” — a reference to the tendencies of fossil hunters to either lump new finds into existing species or split them off into new species.
怀特曾花费多年时间，在埃塞俄比亚发掘原始人化石。他说“该地点发现的全部证据集合”让他印象深刻，“这些证据的确是一个好消息”。此外，他还说，希望这项发现“可以让关于进化生物学的辩论关注重点，而不是进行‘混在一起还是拆分开’的无聊争论。”怀特指的是化石发掘者具有的两种倾向，一种是将新发现归入现有物种，另一种则将其区分为新的物种。
In their report, the Dmanisi researchers said the Skull 5 individual “provides the first evidence that early Homo comprised adult individuals with small brains but body mass, stature and limb proportions reaching the lower range limit of modern variation.”
在报告中，德马尼西的研究人员表示，“5号头骨”的个体“提供了第一份证据，表明早期人属中，包含脑容量很小，但体重、身长、四肢比例都已经达到现代人差异下限的成年个体。”
Skeletal bones associated with the five Dmanisi skulls show that these hominids were short in stature, but that their limbs enabled them to walk long distances as fully upright bipeds. The shape of the small braincase distinguished them from the more primitive Australopithecus genus, which preceded Homo and lived for many centuries with Homo in Africa.
与德马尼西的五颗头骨相对应的身体骨骼显示，这些原始人个子很矮，但四肢却允许它们作为完全直立的两足动物长距离行走。容积不大的脑腔的形状将它们与更原始的南方古猿属(Australopithecus)区分开来。后者早于人属，曾与人属在非洲的许许多多个世纪里共存。