Donald J. Trump easily dispatched his Republican rivals in the Michigan and Mississippi presidential primaries Tuesday and won the Hawaii caucuses, regaining momentum in the face of intensifying resistance to his campaign among party leaders.
在面临来自党内领袖日益加剧的阻挠之际，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)周二恢复了强劲势头，在密歇根州和密西西比州初选及夏威夷州的预选会中轻松战胜了对手们。
Sen. Bernie Sanders scored an upset win in the Michigan Democratic primary, threatening to prolong a Democratic campaign that Hillary Clinton appeared to have all but locked up last week.
伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在密歇根州民主党初选中爆冷获胜，大有延长民主党内竞选历程的趋势。而在上个星期，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)似乎已经胜券在握，只差一锤定音了。
Clinton lost badly in Michigan among independents, showed continued weakness with working-class white Democrats, and was unable to count on as much of an advantage with black voters as she had in the South.
克林顿在密歇根州的独立选民中损失惨重，显示了她在民主党工人阶级白人选民中一直以来存在的弱点，她并不能像在南部获得黑人选民的选票那样在此地获得很大的优势。
Addressing reporters in Miami while the votes in Michigan were still being counted, Sanders said that his powerful showing indicated that “the political revolution that we're talking about is strong in every part of the country.”
当密歇根州还在统计选票的时候，桑德斯在迈阿密对记者表示，他的强有力表现说明了“我们所谈论的政治改革在这个国家的每个角落都大有可为。”
“And frankly,” he added, “we believe that our strongest areas are yet to happen.”
“而且坦白讲，”他补充道，“我们相信在后面的州还会有更好的表现。”
While bolstering Sanders' hand as the race turns to a series of large states next week, his victory in Michigan did not dent Clinton's delegate lead as she won overwhelmingly in Mississippi, crushing Sanders among African-American voters, and netted more delegates overall.
尽管桑德斯在下周一系列的大州初选前巩固了自己手中的砝码，他在密歇根的胜利并没有削弱克林顿在候选人中的领导地位。她在密西西比州大获全胜，在黑人选民中力压桑德斯，并总体上网罗了更多的代表票数。
Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas handily won the Idaho Republican primary, somewhat mitigating his second-place finishes in Michigan and Mississippi.
德克萨斯州参议院特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)在爱达荷州初选中轻松胜出，这对在密歇根州和密西西比州均位列次席的他来说算得上某种慰藉。
After losing to Cruz on Saturday in Kansas and Maine, Trump needed one of his best performances of the campaign to tamp down doubts about his candidacy after a week of gaffes, missteps and questions about the strength of his political organization.
周六在堪萨斯州和缅因州输给克鲁兹，并经历了失态、失策、竞选团队备受质疑的一周后，特朗普需要用一场完美的表现来打消对其候选资格的怀疑。
And he got one, demonstrating his appeal with working-class white voters in Michigan, a state Trump has claimed he could win in the general election, while beating back especially stiff challenges from Gov. John Kasich of Ohio there and from Cruz in Mississippi.
然后他拿下了一个州，证明了他对密歇根州白人工人阶级选民的吸引力，他此前曾表示在大选中自己对该州也胜券在握。他击败了俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西齐(John Kasich)，在密西西比州也抵挡住了来自克鲁兹的挑战。
Trump, plugging several of his business interests in a victory speech that seemed straight out of QVC, crowed about having prevailed despite what he called millions of dollars' worth of “horrible lies” in negative ads from his rivals.
特朗普在他如电视购物节目一般的胜选演讲中塞入了许多商业利益，吹嘘自己战胜了来自对手的负面广告中那些价值百万的“可怕谎言”。
“There's only one person who did well tonight: Donald Trump,” he said in Jupiter, Florida, at one of his golf resorts. He also mocked Cruz. “He's always saying, `I'm the only one that can beat Trump,”' Trump said, imitating his rival, but adding: “He rarely beats me.”
“今晚只有一个人表现得很好：唐纳德·特朗普，”他在自己位于佛罗里达州木星岛(Jupiter)的一家高尔夫度假村时说。特朗普还嘲讽了克鲁兹：“他总是说‘只有我才能打败特朗普，’”他模仿着自己的对手，但补充说，“他很少打败我。”