Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont captured the West Virginia primary on Tuesday, according to The Associated Press, forcing Hillary Clinton to continue a costly and distracting two-front battle: to lock down the Democratic nomination and to take on Donald J. Trump in the general election.
根据美联社(The Associated Press)的报道，来自佛蒙特州的联邦参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)周二赢得西弗吉尼亚州的党内初选，迫使希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)继续进行花费巨大、分散精力的两线作战：一方面要锁定民主党内的提名资格，另一方面要为大选来对抗唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。
Mrs. Clinton has a nearly invincible lead in delegates, which Mr. Sanders’s victory, one week after he won Indiana, did little to narrow. But by staying in the race, which he has vowed to do until the Democratic convention in Philadelphia in July, Mr. Sanders continues to tug Mrs. Clinton to the left.
继上周赢得印第安纳州初选后，桑德斯再下一城。不过，克林顿在代表人数上拥有几乎无法逾越的优势，桑德斯的胜利基本未能缩小这个差距。然而，他发誓要坚持到7月在费城举行的民主党全国大会。通过留在竞选当中，桑德斯继续推动克林顿往左翼调整立场。
This week, after long resisting Mr. Sanders’s call for a single-payer health care system, Mrs. Clinton embraced allowing people as young as 50 to buy into Medicare.
克林顿长期抵制桑德斯呼吁的单支付方医保系统，但在本周，她接纳了允许民众在最早50岁时购买联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的概念。
With Mr. Trump aggressively attacking Mrs. Clinton as he focuses on the general election, Mrs. Clinton’s potential vulnerability was exposed in her defeats in West Virginia and Indiana, states with many white, working-class voters.
特朗普已将目光投向了大选，在大力攻击克林顿。此时，克林顿在西弗吉尼亚和印第安纳的失利暴露了她的潜在弱点。这两个州均拥有众多蓝领白人选民。
Once a core Democratic constituency, whites in Appalachia without a college education have deserted the party over cultural issues like guns and President Obama’s environmental policies, which have hurt the coal mining industry.
阿巴拉契亚山脉没有大学文凭的白人曾经是民主党的一群核心选民。然而，由于在一些议题上的分歧，他们在抛弃民主党。这些分歧包括枪支等文化议题，以及奥巴马总统提出的对煤矿行业不利的环境政策。
Mrs. Clinton tried to repair relations in the last week, less because of her contest with Mr. Sanders than to mend fences for the November election.
过去一周，克林顿试图修复与这些选民的关系。这与其说是出于跟桑德斯之间的竞争，倒不如说是为了11月的大选而做出补救。
She campaigned hard along the Ohio River, knowing that she must stanch the defection of working-class voters, especially white men, to Mr. Trump in two crucial states, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
她在俄亥俄河沿岸各州大力竞选。她明白，在俄亥俄和宾夕法尼亚这两个至关重要的州里，她必须阻止蓝领选民倒向特朗普，尤其是白人男性。
Her campaign, which has not bought television ads since her sweep of four Eastern states on April 26 and hoped to conserve money for the general election, is going back on the air in Kentucky before its primary next week.
自克林顿在4月26日横扫东部四州以来，她的竞选团队一直没有购买电视广告，希望为大选储备资金。不过，他们准备在下周的肯塔基州初选之前恢复电视广告。
Mrs. Clinton’s vulnerability in Ohio and Pennsylvania was highlighted by polls released Tuesday by Quinnipiac University, which showed her running close with Mr. Trump in the two states but losing ground because of a wide gender gap. In Ohio, which has voted with the winning candidate in the last 10 presidential elections, she was ahead of Mr. Trump by seven percentage points among women, but behind by 15 points among men.
在昆尼皮亚克大学(Quinnipiac University)周二公布的民意调查结果中，克林顿在俄亥俄和宾夕法尼亚的弱点得以突显。此次民调显示，她在这两个州里与特朗普不分上下，但因为性别之间的鸿沟而处于不利地位。在过去十次的总统选举中，俄亥俄州均投给了最终获胜的候选人。克林顿在那里的女性选民中领先特朗普七个百分点，但在男性选民中落后了15个百分点。
In Pennsylvania, which Mr. Trump aims to win as part of a Rust Belt strategy, Mrs. Clinton was ahead among women by 19 points, but losing to Mr. Trump by an equal 19 points.
作为特朗普“铁锈地带”竞选策略的一部分，他希望拿下宾夕法尼亚州。在那里，克林顿在女性选民中领先特朗普19个百分点，但在男性选民中同样落后了19个百分点。
Mr. Trump, who became the presumptive Republican nominee last week with a landslide victory in Indiana, added icing to the cake on Tuesday by taking West Virginia and Nebraska. (Democrats voted in Nebraska on March 5.)
特朗普上周在印第安纳大获全胜，从而成为稳获共和党提名的人选。本周二，他锦上添花，赢得了西弗吉尼亚和内布拉斯加两州的初选。（民主党人已在3月5号举行了内布拉斯加州的预选会。）