PORTSMOUTH, N.H. — After 14 months of policy clashes and moments of mutual disdain, Bernie Sanders endorsed Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination Tuesday, clearing away the last major obstacle to a united front for the party heading into its convention this month and the fall election.
新罕布什尔州朴茨茅斯——在14个月的政策冲突和偶尔迸发的相互轻视之后，伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)本周二对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)成为民主党总统提名人表示了正式支持，为该党在本月的大会和秋季的选举中团结一致清除了最后一个主要障碍。
Yet for all the smiles and hugs between the former rivals here at their first joint rally, Clinton’s next challenge was on vivid display as some Sanders supporters jeered her name and held signs saying “Won’t Vote Hillary” while Clinton partisans hissed “shhhh” and others chanted “unity.” In the coming weeks, the 13 million voters who backed Sanders in the primary contests will be watching Clinton for any hint of wavering from their progressive causes.
然而，尽管这两个曾经的对手在他们首次共同亮相的集会上展现了笑容并相互拥抱，克林顿面临的下一个挑战却生动地呈现在了台下：桑德斯的一些粉丝对她的名字起哄，举着“不会投给希拉里”的标语，克林顿的铁杆支持者发出嘘声，而另一些人则高呼“团结”。在接下来的时间里，那些在初选中支持桑德斯的1300万选民，将会盯牢克林顿，看她是否在他们拥护的进步派议题上出现任何一丝动摇。
Sanders, in his remarks at the rally, signaled what may be her best hope of attracting them: drawing sharp contrasts between her and Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, so his admirers feel they have no choice but to support Clinton.
桑德斯在集会上的发言表明，如果她想获得他们的支持，最有希望的做法便是：与锁定共和党提名的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)形成鲜明对比，令桑德斯的崇拜者觉得自己别无选择，只能支持克林顿。
Dropping his portrayal of Clinton as a captive of Wall Street billionaires and big-money interests, for instance, Sanders redirected those sorts of accusations to Trump, saying his proposed tax cuts would be a windfall to wealthy Americans.
例如，桑德斯不再把克林顿描述成华尔街亿万富翁和金钱利益的俘虏，而是把这种批评指向了特朗普，声称他提出的减税方案对美国富人来说将是一笔意外之财。
“His reckless economic policies will not only exacerbate income and wealth inequality, they would increase our national debt by trillions of dollars,” said Sanders, the Vermont senator.
“他的经济政策很草率，不仅会加剧收入和财富的不平等，还会给美国带来万亿美元的债务，”来自佛蒙特州的参议员桑德斯说。
In her appeal to his supporters, Clinton sought to pick up his political mantle and pledged to overhaul Wall Street and the campaign finance system.
为了吸引桑德斯的支持者，克林顿试图采用他的一些政治措辞，承诺将对华尔街和竞选财务系统进行全面改革。
“It is past time to end the stranglehold of wealthy special interests in Washington,” she said.
“是时候打破富人特殊利益对华盛顿的束缚了，”她说。
One person close to Sanders said that the senator and his wife, Jane, were “putting on a good face” Tuesday, but that they were disappointed his campaign had not been more successful.
与桑德斯家族关系亲密的一名人士称，他和妻子简(Jane)本周二在“强颜欢笑”，实际上他们对己方竞选失利颇为失望。
Still, Sanders uttered the words that Clinton needed him to say — “I am endorsing Hillary Clinton” — and aligned himself with her on creating more jobs, raising the minimum wage, expanding access to government-run health care, combating climate change and offering relief to college students in deep debt.
不过，桑德斯仍然说出了克林顿需要的来自他口中的这句话——“我正式支持希拉里·克林顿”——并表示愿与她协力创造更多的就业机会，提高最低工资标准，扩大政府经营的医疗服务覆盖的范围，应对气候变化，为债台高筑的大学生提供帮助。
“There is no doubt in my mind that, as we head into November, Hillary Clinton is far and away the best candidate,” he said.
“在我心中毫无疑问，当我们迈向11月时，希拉里·克林顿显然就是最好的候选人，”他说。