SÃO PAULO, Brazil — Last week, with great solemnity, Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff, told CNN’s Christiane Amanpour that “being able to overcome defeat I think is the feature and hallmark of a major national team and of a great country.”
巴西圣保罗——上周，巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)非常庄严地对CNN的克里斯汀·阿曼普(Christiane Amanpour)说，“我认为，能够克服失败，是一支强队和一个伟大国家的特征和标志。”
So what happened to Brazil that was so dreadful? Was it something similar to the 1940 defeat that drove Charles de Gaulle to call for French resistance? Thankfully, it was nothing of the sort. It was just a soccer game — a national nightmare, during which Germany scored seven goals, four of them in under six minutes. Fortunate is a people that is capable of such commotion over a simple soccer match.
巴西到底发生了什么事，如此可怕？是促使夏尔·戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)1940年呼吁法国人抵抗侵略的那种事情吗？值得庆幸的是，情况并非如此。其实不过是一场足球赛，却给巴西带来了一场噩梦：德国队在对巴西的比赛中踢进了七个球，其中有四个是在六分钟内连续踢入的。为了一场足球赛，巴西人可以这样群情激荡，他们真是幸运。
Since its independence, the nation of Brazil has suffered only two terrible defeats — both on home turf, in soccer. Headed for a draw with Uruguay in the 1950 World Cup final, the Brazilian team left itself open to a goal that silenced the country.
自从巴西独立以来，该国只遭受了两次惨败——都是在主场，在足球赛中。第一次是1950年世界杯的决赛，巴西和乌拉圭看似即将踢平，结果主队防守不当，让乌拉圭踢入制胜一球，令整个巴西为之沉默。
Six decades later, it was expected that Brazil, as the host nation, would finally vindicate itself in the eyes of the world. Last week’s loss to Germany, which went on to defeat Argentina and win the championship, was arguably worse than 1950. Goals ceased to be surprising; they took on a humiliating regularity. The word “humiliation,” recalled during the game and repeated throughout the world, informed Ms. Rousseff’s conversation with CNN. It would never occur to a Brazilian to emotionally distance herself from what had happened to the national team’s players. It’s basically a question of patriotism.
六十年后，巴西作为世界杯主办国，终于有望在全世界的注视下证明自己的实力。结果上周输给德国的那场球，可以说比1950年那次更加凄惨。德国之后击败了阿根廷，夺得了冠军。在巴西和德国的比赛中，德国的进球后来已经不再令人感到惊讶，而是令人羞耻地成为常态。“羞辱”这个词在那场比赛中反复响起，在世界各地再三重复，也贯穿在罗塞夫与CNN的对话节目中。对于发生在国家队球员身上的事情，巴西人永远都不会保持感情上的超然。这基本上是一个爱国主义问题。
It may seem naïve to argue that the soul of a country can be deeply entwined with the result of a sporting event. Maybe so, but Americans still take pride in Jesse Owens’s victories at the 1936 Berlin Olympics under Hitler’s nose and Joe Louis’s knockout of the German boxer Max Schmeling during the height of Nazism. And in terms of cultural competition, Americans felt a sense of triumph when the pianist Van Cliburn won the International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow in 1958 just months after the Soviet Union had shocked and shamed the United States by putting the Sputnik satellite into orbit.
认为一个国家的灵魂可以和一个体育赛事的结果紧密交缠，这种观念听上去似乎有些天真。也许是这样的，但杰西·欧文斯(Jesse Owens)参加1936年柏林奥运会时在希特勒的鼻子下取得胜利，以及乔·路易斯(Joe Louis)在纳粹主义最猖獗的时候击败德国拳击手马克斯·施梅林(Max Schmeling)，这些事至今也仍让美国人感到自豪。而在文化竞争方面，当钢琴家范·克莱本(Van Cliburn)1958年在莫斯科赢得国际柴可夫斯基大赛时，美国人品尝到了一种胜利感，而仅仅几个月前，当苏联把斯普特尼克(Sputnik)人造卫星送入轨道时，美国人还感到震惊和羞愧。
Many nations identify with sporting victories but seek military successes above all. Sometimes this is for the good of humanity, like the allied efforts in World War II. Sometimes it is a terrible waste, like French and American actions in Vietnam. No nation likes to talk about its military failures. Americans don’t like to remember that in 1814 the British torched the White House.
有很多国家虽然把感情倾注在运动场上的胜利中，但把寻求军事胜利摆在首位。有时候，这种做法有益于人类，比如二战中盟军的行动。有时候，这是一种可怕的浪费，比如法国和美国在越南的作为。没有一个国家喜欢谈论自己的军事失败。美国人也不愿想起1814年时，英国人曾放火焚烧白宫。
Brazilian national humiliations tend to occur within the four corners of the soccer field. Perhaps we can chalk this up to geography — after all, Brazil is far from that cauldron of trouble called Europe. Or perhaps it’s luck. Since the end of the 19th century, no Brazilian soldier has died in a war that expanded the nation’s borders. Nine generals have governed Brazil. Six of them never fought a war. It’s better that way.
巴西这个国家遭受的屈辱，往往发生在足球赛场的四条边线之内。或许我们可以把那归咎于地理——毕竟，巴西和欧洲这个是非之地相距遥远。或许这就是运气。自19世纪末以来，巴西没有一兵一卒在扩大国家边界​的战争中丧命。先后曾有九位将军统治巴西。他们中有六个从未打过一场战争。还是这样更好。
Before the World Cup began, opponents of the government bet on the event’s infrastructural weakness. Later, the government got drunk on the fleeting success of the team, despite having little to do with it.
世界杯开始之前，巴西的反对派打赌薄弱的基础设施会出问题上。后来，巴西政府却因国家队稍纵即逝的成功而酩酊大醉，尽管他们跟那没有什么关系。
Today it’s generally believed that the “7-1” debacle (and a 3-0 drubbing by the Netherlands in the third-place match) will influence the results of the presidential election in October. Behind this conviction lies a certain skepticism toward the universal right to vote, or worse, a disbelief in Brazilians’ capacity to intelligently exercise it.
如今，人们普遍认为，“7比1”的惨败（在季军争夺赛中，荷兰又以3比0痛击了巴西）将影响今年10月的总统选举结果。在这种信念的背后，是一些人对普遍选举权心存怀疑，或者更糟，是对巴西人是否有能力明智地行使这种权利持怀疑态度。
Brazilian governments that have seen World Cup defeats have won elections. And others have lost elections despite World Cup victories. Add it up, and you’ve got nothing. Soccer depends on a ball in a goal. Elections, a ballot in the box. One requires the prevalent use of one’s feet; the other, one’s head.
之前经历过世界杯失利的巴西政府，有些在选举中获得了胜利。另外一些尽管经历了世界杯的胜利，但却输掉了选举。整体来看，世界杯对选举没有什么影响。足球靠的是进球。选举靠的是选票。前者需要大量用脚；后者需要大量用头。
The World Cup has been awarded, but Brazil’s problems will remain just as they’ve always been. Ms. Rousseff will seek re-election amid dismal economic indicators: too little growth (1.4 percent in 2014), too much inflation (6.4 percent according to forecasts by the central bank). And, above all, she will rely on a religious faith in marketing.
世界杯已经被抱走，巴西的问题还将一如既往地存在。罗塞夫将寻求连任，伴随她的是惨淡的经济指标：增长率太低（2014年为1.4%），通货膨胀率太高（该国央行预测为6.4%）。而且，最重要的是，她将把对营销工作的虔诚信仰当作依靠。