Hong Kong residents concerned about mainland China’s growing influence on their territory found yet another reason for alarm recently, with a report saying that a substantial increase in tourism last year was propelled by mainland Chinese — who accounted for 70 percent of the 54 million visitors in 2013.
担心中国大陆对当地的影响力不断增长的香港居民最近又找到了一个让他们惊慌的理由，一篇报道称去年香港游客数量的大幅增长主要是由于来自中国大陆带动，大陆游客在2013年来港的5400万人数中占了70%。
And with those tourist numbers expected to rise to 70 million in the next three years, lawmakers in Hong Kong, a semi-autonomous Chinese region with its own immigration controls, have come up with a novel solution: levying a special tax on visitors, but only those arriving by land.
预计在未来三年内来港游客数量将增至7000万人次，因此香港一些议员提出了一个新的解决方案：对通过陆路到达的游客征收一笔特别入境税。香港是中国的一个半自治地区，有自己独立的移民控制。
The tax that could range from 20 to 100 Hong Kong dollars ($2.50 to $13) would fall overwhelmingly on people from the mainland. On Tuesday, Hong Kong’s chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, shot down the idea, warning that if enacted, it would probably lead to a similar tax being levied on Hong Kong residents heading into the mainland. And, he noted, mainland Chinese visitors fill the cash registers of Hong Kong businesses.
这笔税可能会在20-100港元之间，将主要落在来自大陆的游客头上。周二，香港特首梁振英驳回了这个建议，他警告称，如果征收该税的话，可能会导致大陆向前往大陆的香港人征收类似的税。他还指出，大陆游客为香港商家的收银机带来大笔收入。
“They have brought job opportunities to the grass-roots and local tourism,” Mr. Leung said. “We should not feel conceited before getting rich.”
梁振英说，“他们为基层和当地的旅游业带来了就业机会。我们不应该在富裕之前自负。”
The attempt to impose the tax is the latest flare-up in a cultural clash that pits mainland Chinese against Hong Kong people, with Hong Kong locals seizing on individual accounts of bad behavior to paint a wider caricature of mainland Chinese as lacking in manners. And, in fact, the complaints in Hong Kong and elsewhere have resonated in Beijing, with one senior official upbraiding poorly behaved Chinese tourists for “poor quality and breeding” and the government even issuing guidelines for proper behavior (“do not curse locals” and trim nasal hair).
这个征税企图是大陆人和香港人之间文化冲突的最近的一次爆发，香港当地人抓住个别大陆人的不文明行为，给所有大陆人涂上缺少教养的脸谱。事实上，北京已经对香港和其他地方的这类抱怨产生了共鸣，一名大陆高级官员曾训斥表现不佳的中国游客“素质低、缺少教养”，政府甚至还颁布了文明行为准则（“不要骂当地人”、以及要修剪鼻毛）。
One thing the new tourism numbers don’t capture is that many of the visitors from mainland China are day trippers who visit Hong Kong on shopping jaunts, so while they may make up seven out of every 10 visitors, their actual imprint on the territory is probably far less substantial. One travel industry official recently suggested setting up more malls by the border so that mainland Chinese visitors would not feel compelled to travel into the heart of Hong Kong, to the busy shopping areas of Causeway Bay and Mong Kok (two areas that are also magnets for foreign tourists).
新的游客数据没有显示的是，很多大陆游客只是白天到香港购物而已，虽然他们占了游客人数中的七成，但他们对香港带来的实际影响可能要小得多。一名旅游行业的官员最近提议在香港与大陆的边界地带开更多的购物商场，这样大陆游客就不必非要到铜锣湾和旺角这样的香港中心地带购物了（这两个地点也吸引着大批的外国游客）。
In the meantime, the idea of a “mainland tax” seems to be going nowhere, even though the passions that inspired it are likely to linger. In speaking out against the tax, one newspaper editorialized on Wednesday that Hong Kong’s chief executive was moving quickly to tamp down what could be a popular idea.
与此同时，“大陆税”的想法看来不会走出多远，尽管激发这个想法的热情可能会继续存留。一份报纸周三发表一篇社论反对该税，称香港特首迅速反应，将这个可能会蔓延的想法压了下去。
“If anyone is asked on the street nowadays, there’s a 50-50 chance that he or she would support the tax,” said the Hong Kong newspaper, The Standard. “It’s all about a desire to keep the mainlanders out,” it said, adding, “clearly Leung also sensed the sentiment is so dangerous that he had to speak against the tax quickly.”
这篇发表在香港《虎报》(The Standard)上的社论称，“如果问今天走在大街上的人，50%的人可能会支持该税。这都是出于想阻止大陆人来港的愿望。”该报接着写道，“很明显，梁也意识到了这种情绪的危险性，所以他不得不马上表示反对。”