Sure, there are important things happening today. But we’ll talk about that somewhere else. Here’s what we want to know:
的确，今天正在发生重要的事情。但我们要在其他地方讨论这些事情。以下是我们现在想知道的：
What’s in the box?
盒子里装的是什么？
As Donald J. Trump and his wife, Melania, arrived at the White House on Friday morning to begin inauguration ceremonies, Mrs. Trump presented the departing first lady, Michelle Obama, with a blue box from Tiffany & Company — a company that happens to have a flagship store next to the Trump Tower in Manhattan.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)和妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)周五早晨抵达白宫，来启动就职典礼，特朗普夫人给了即将离开的第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)一个蒂芙尼公司(Tiffany & Company)的蓝色盒子。该公司恰好在曼哈顿的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)旁边有一家旗舰店。
The gift’s arrival seemed unexpected, and it briefly created an awkward moment, as Mrs. Obama tried to figure out what to do with it. She turned this way and that way. The motionless Marine behind her didn’t look particularly interested in holding it. There was no table to put it on. What’s a departing first lady to do?
这份礼物似乎来得出人意料，造成了短暂的尴尬。奥巴马夫人尝试着想出处理它的办法。她转向这边又转向那边。她身后那名一动不动的海军陆战队队员似乎不打算拿着它。现场又没有桌子可以放。即将离开的第一夫人该怎么办？
President Obama made an executive decision: He took the box, walked inside and handed it to an unknown person.
奥巴马总统乾纲独断：他拿起盒子，走进去交给了某人。
The moment was widely received on social media as a graceful parting gift from Mrs. Trump.
在社交媒体上，这个时刻被广泛视作特朗普夫人彰显得体姿态的临别礼物。
But we still don’t know what the gift was. This lack of information did not sit well with observers.
但我们依然不知道那件礼物是什么。观察人士对这种信息的缺乏感到不满。
We asked a spokesman from Tiffany some carefully calibrated questions:
我们向蒂芙尼的发言人提了一些经过慎重修改的问题：
What may have been in the box?
盒子里可能放着什么？
Did the size suggest a particular item?
盒子的大小是不是能表明里面是某样东西？
Was there a special bow? Anything?
是一个特别的蝴蝶结吗？还是其他什么东西？
Sadly, the company declined to play ball.
遗憾的是，该公司拒绝接招。
“The White House has been a patron of the house of Tiffany & Co. since Abraham Lincoln,” Nathan Strauss, the director of corporate communications, wrote in an email.
“白宫自亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)以来便一直是蒂芙尼公司的顾客，”该公司的企业公关负责人内森‧施特劳斯(Nathan Straus)在一封电子邮件中写道。
That was the entire email.
这就是整封邮件的内容。
Come on! We don’t have time to wait for facts! This is the internet! We need to guess the facts now!
拜托！我们没有时间等待事实的到来！这是互联网时代！我们现在需要猜出事实！
Thankfully, social media filled the void. Some speculation was earnest; others a bit less so.
幸运的是，社交媒体填补了空白。一些猜测是认真的，其他的则不然。
Tara Mulholland@tara_mulholland：Seems like Melania Trump gave Michelle a big ol' Tiffany's box- it looks roughly the right size to be a silver frame.
塔拉·马尔霍兰(Tara Mulholland@tara_mulholland)：梅拉尼娅·特朗普给米歇尔的蒂芙尼大盒子的尺寸大小，似乎是个银相框。
Amy Dillon@amydillon: Inside the blue Tiffany's box Melania handed Michelle is just a desperately scrawled note that says "Take me with you."
艾米·狄龙(Amy Dillon@amydillon)：梅拉尼娅给米歇尔的蒂芙尼盒子里，只有一张潦草写下的纸条，写着“带我一起走”。
V. Wisniewski Otero@victoria_rights: Word is that inside Melania's Tiffany's box is Trump's long-anticipated tax returns as a gift to the American public.
V·维希涅夫斯基·奥特罗(V. Wisniewski Otero@victoria_rights)：据说梅拉尼娅给米歇尔的蒂芙尼盒子里，是外界早就期待看到的特朗普的纳税申报单，作为礼物送给美国公众。
Which one is true? We don’t know. Sorry.
谁猜对了？抱歉，我们不知道。