President-elect Donald J. Trump’s wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son, Barron, will not immediately move to the White House after Mr. Trump takes office in January, out of concern for uprooting Barron in the middle of the school year, transition officials said on Sunday.
过渡官员周日表示，候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)1月份就职后，他的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)和他们的10岁儿子巴伦(Barron)不会立即搬入白宫，原因是担心这会中断巴伦本学年的学业。
Ms. Trump and Barron will remain in New York for at least another six months, the officials said. Speaking to reporters on Sunday at his golf course in Bedminster, N.J., Mr. Trump said they would join him “very soon — after he’s finished with school.”
官员们说，特朗普和巴伦将继续留在纽约至少六个月。特朗普周日在新泽西州贝德明斯特的高尔夫球场对记者说，“在他这学期结束之后，他们将很快”搬来白宫。
Mr. Trump said he would move to the White House. Still, with his family remaining at Trump Tower, the likelihood may increase that Mr. Trump will spend part of the week in New York.
特朗普说自己会搬到白宫。然而，由于他的家人将留在特朗普大厦，特朗普每周在纽约待些时间的可能性增大了。
Jason Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Trump, said, “No official statement has been released by the Trump family regarding transition timing, but like any parents, they are concerned about pulling their 10-year-old son out of school in the middle of the year.”
特朗普的发言人杰森·米勒(Jason Miller)说：“特朗普一家没有就过渡的时间安排发表正式声明，但和任何父母一样，10岁儿子在学年中途转学的问题让他们担心。”
Mr. Miller urged that “the same privacy and security considerations given to previous first families with regard to minor children be extended to the Trumps as well.”
米勒表示，“以前对于第一家庭中的未成年子女会有隐私和安全方面的考虑，对特朗普一家也应如此。”
The New York Times previously reported that Ms. Trump was planning to move to the White House eventually but was concerned about disrupting her son’s routine. The New York Post reported on Sunday that she and Barron would not join her husband immediately after the inauguration.
《纽约时报》此前曾报道梅拉尼娅计划最终搬到白宫，但她担心扰乱儿子的日常生活。《纽约邮报》周日报道说，她和巴伦不会在丈夫就职后立即搬入白宫。
For all of the enthusiasm that the president-elect displayed on the campaign trail, Ms. Trump, a former model, never shared in it. She did not join her husband other than for major events like the Republican National Convention, and she granted few interviews.
虽然特朗普在竞选活动中干劲十足，但曾经当过模特儿的梅拉尼娅对此从来都不热心。只有举行重大活动，比如共和党全国大会，她才会陪同丈夫参加。而且她接受采访的时候非常少。
She is the main caregiver for their son, who attends a private school in Manhattan and is taken there most days by his mother. She is said to be concerned not just about the potential disruption to her son’s life, but also about bringing him closer to the news media spotlight. People who know her have said she plans to revisit the issue at the end of the school year.
他们的儿子在曼哈顿的一所私立学校就读，主要是由她在照顾，大多数时候都是她在接送上学。据说她不仅担心儿子的生活可能遭到干扰，而且还不想让他太过接近新闻媒体的关注。认识她的人说，她计划在本学年末重新考虑这个问题。
The situation is similar in ways to the one Michelle Obama faced in 2008 after her husband was elected. Mrs. Obama also did not care for the attention that came with the campaign, and she was said to be considering remaining in Chicago with their two daughters. But she ultimately made the move with their children.
米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)在2008年丈夫当选后面临着相似的情况。米歇尔也不喜欢竞选活动带来的关注，据说她曾考虑和两个女儿一起留在芝加哥。但最终她还是与孩子们搬到了白宫。
Mr. Trump and his aides have not said whether he plans to move to the White House full time. But he has told aides he would like to be in New York when he can.
特朗普及其助手们没有提到他是否打算完全搬到白宫。但特朗普告诉助手，他希望尽可能留在纽约。
Keeping Trump Tower as a residence for the incoming president’s family will create security and logistical hurdles for the Secret Service and the Police Department. The tower is on Fifth Avenue, a major thoroughfare.
新总统的家人继续住在特朗普大厦里，这会在安全和后勤上给特勤局和警察局制造障碍。特朗普大厦所在的第五大道是一条主干线。