SÃO PAULO, Brazil — Lionel Messi is often the smallest player on the field. But it is clear that he possesses his own gravitational pull.
巴西圣保罗——利昂内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)往往是场上个头最矮小的球员。然而，他无疑拥有一种吸引全场的魅力。
Just look at how opposing players — entire teams — drift toward him, one after another, and impulsively flinch at his every step and feint. Look at how magnetically he draws a crowd’s collective gaze, how hushed with expectation a building can become whenever he makes a run. Look at how quickly the ball zips its way back to his feet whenever his team feels the slightest bit of anxiety.
只要看看对方球员——是所有对手球队的球员——一个接一个地移向梅西，他的每个步伐、每次佯攻都让他们骤然退缩，你就会明白了。你会看到他是如何像磁石般地吸引住全体观众的，你会看到，无论他何时奔袭，全场都会是一片万众期待、鸦雀无声的情景。你会看到，无论他的球队何时感到一丁一点的焦虑，球都会迅速地呼啸着回到他的脚下。
Messi’s stature, already large, has grown considerably in this World Cup, and it grew somehow bigger still Tuesday as he inspired Argentina to a 1-0 victory over Switzerland at Arena Corinthians.
梅西的声望已然不凡，在本届世界杯中更是如此。周二，他在科林蒂安体育场(Arena Corinthians)激励阿根廷队以1比0战胜瑞士队，从某种角度而言，他的形象愈发高大了。
As the game dragged on, scoreless, it only felt more certain that Messi would crack it open. It was Ángel di María who scored the game’s only goal, in the 118th minute, when a penalty shootout seemed a sure thing. But it was Messi who served Di María the ball on a platter after destabilizing the entire Swiss defense with a breathtaking dribbling solo run through the middle of the field.
比赛进行得拖拖拉拉沉闷无味，双方都没有进球，观众唯一较为肯定的是，梅西能成功破门。第118分钟，就在所有人都似乎都觉得，点球大战已经在所难免时，安赫尔·迪马利亚(Ángel di María)射入了全场唯一的一球。不过，正是梅西帮助迪马利亚轻而易举地攻入了这一球，此前他令人惊叹地只身控球，从中路向前突破，搅乱了瑞士队的整体防线。
“We had luck on our side,” Messi said, sounding relieved. “We have to take advantage of that and move on.”
梅西说，“运气在我们这一边。我们必须利用这种优势再接再厉。”听上去他松了一口气。
Argentina moves on to the quarterfinal round, staying alive in this World Cup almost entirely thanks to Messi’s individual brilliance, and will face Belgium, a 2-1 winner over the United States. Messi scored four goals in the group stage, often summoning chances from seemingly nothing to save his team. His output, in truth, has masked Argentina’s failure to be the juggernaut its roster suggests it should be.
阿根廷晋级四分之一决赛，跻身八强，它将遭遇比利时队，后者以2比1战胜了美国队。阿根廷队能在本次世界杯中幸存至今，几乎全是仰仗梅西出色的个人表现。梅西在小组赛中攻入四球，他常常能在看似全无可能的条件下创造出机会，挽救自己的球队。尽管阿根廷队强大的阵容让它显得像是足坛霸主，但实则有负霸主之名——而梅西的进球遮掩了这个事实。
There is a sense, then, that Coach Alejandro Sabella may be misusing the immense talent at his disposal, that at some point soon in this tournament, a strong team will expose the team’s various deficiencies. But there is a sense, too, that since it has Messi, it may not matter.
此外人们有一种感觉，阿根廷队教练亚历杭德罗·萨维利亚(Alejandro Sabella)排兵布阵时，也许在误用这个无以伦比的天才，该队的各种缺陷，会在不久后遭遇某一强队时暴露无遗。不过，人们还有一种感觉，那就是即使这样也没有关系，因为阿根廷队有梅西。
“We know that Messi in one second can decide a match,” Switzerland Coach Ottmar Hitzfeld said. “He has all the qualities to do that.”
瑞士队教练奥特马·希斯菲尔德(Ottmar Hitzfeld)表示，“我们知道，梅西能在一秒内决定一场比赛。他完全有实力做到这一点。”
Hitzfeld’s team defended admirably, setting up an impenetrable pyramid in front of its goal to nullify the 61 percent possession advantage that Argentina enjoyed in the game, and it seemed as if the Swiss could steal a victory through a penalty shootout. But Messi put those efforts to waste.
希斯菲尔德执掌的球队防守令人赞叹，该队在球门前构筑了一座牢不可破的金字塔，化解了阿根廷队在本场比赛中享有的61%的控球优势，瑞士队仿佛会通过点球大战偷走这场胜利。然而，梅西却让他们的努力功亏一篑。
With only minutes left in the game, Messi corralled a sharp pass on a half-turn near the center circle and began a direct sprint toward the Switzerland goal. From the left appeared a lunging slide tackle, out to scythe ball or body. But it missed on both, as Messi hopped over unharmed, never slowing his stride.
距离终场仅有几分钟时，梅西在中圈附近半转身接过一记犀利的传球，开始全速直攻瑞士队的球门。对方球员从左边猛扑过来铲球，目标是将球铲走或将他铲倒。但这记铲球两个目标都未实现，因为梅西未受影响，而是一跃而起后继续奔跑，丝毫没放慢速度。
Three other Argentina attackers fanned out around the penalty area, but all eyes remained on Messi as he glided forward at top speed. Messi drew six Switzerland players around him before slipping the ball, at the last moment, to his right and into the path of Di María, who needed only to slide the ball along the grass and inside the far post to finish the play.
另外三名阿根廷进攻球员在禁区周围散开，但当梅西以最快的速度流畅跑动时，所有人的目光依然停留在他身上。在最后时刻将球传给右手位的迪马利亚前，梅西吸引来了六名瑞士球员。迪马利亚只需让球沿着草坪滚入远门柱，便能结束比赛。
“He was in a very advantageous position, and obviously a player like Messi receiving a ball in an advantageous position can cause a lot of harm,” Sabella said. “And there it was.”
“他处在一个非常有利的位置上，而且显然像梅西这样的球员在有利位置接到球，会造成很大的危险，”萨维利亚说，“事实的确如此。”
Two minutes after the goal, Blerim Dzemaili of Switzerland rose unmarked and knocked a header directly off the left post. Providing double heartbreak, the ball ricocheted back off the metal and hit Dzemaili’s body again as he was falling to the ground, but it rolled wide of the goal. It could have been a deserved equalizer, as Switzerland had the better chances through much of the game.
阿根廷进球两分钟后，瑞士队的布莱里姆·哲马伊利(Blerim Dzemaili)在没有防守的情况高高跃起，头球直射，但球击中了左门柱。哲马伊利落地时，从金属门柱上反弹回来的球再次碰到了他的身体，但却滚到了远离球门的位置，让人又一次心碎。瑞士本来应该就此追平比分，因为本场比赛的很多时间里，他们已经错过了更好的机会。
In the 28th minute, Granit Xhaka directed a low, hard shot from outside the penalty box through traffic that required a left-footed save from goalkeeper Sergio Romero, who seemed not to have a great view of it. Eleven minutes later, Josip Drmic was alone against Romero after sprinting onto a through ball. But he tried a soft chip shot — an overly clever choice, in hindsight — and Romero caught the ball at shoulder height.
第28分钟，格拉尼特·扎卡(Granit Xhaka)在禁区外一记有力的低空直射，足球从多名防守球员中间穿过，被门将塞尔吉奥·罗梅罗(Sergio Romero)用左脚拦出，尽管后者似乎没有看清场面。11分钟后，约西普·德尔米奇(Josip Drmic)在快速接到直传球后获得单刀机会。但他缺乏力量的一记吊射——事后看来，这个选择聪明过度了——被罗梅罗在齐肩高的位置接住了。
The precipitous and towering stands at Arena Corinthians pulsated with energy after each chance. The Argentina fans had brought balloons and were bouncing as they sang, turning entire sections of the stadium into rippling sheets of sky blue and white. But even though the Swiss fans were far outnumbered, they had thousands of Brazil supporters on their side for the day, giving the stadium a fractured vibe.
每一次射门机会过后，科林蒂安体育场高耸的看台上都涌动着能量。阿根廷球迷买了气球，一边唱一边跳，把体育场里他们所在的地方，变成了天蓝色和白色的涟漪。尽管瑞士球迷在人数上远远落后，但当天有数千名巴西支持者站在他们这一边，让体育场有一种势不两立的的气氛。
The local fans seemed to be the only ones having fun as the game remained deadlocked, shouting “Olé” after every Switzerland pass, long into extra time.
比赛依然僵持不下时，唯一开心的似乎只有当地球迷。瑞士每次传球后，他们都会高喊“Olé”加油，这种场面一直持续到加时赛。
“At times I was nervous because we couldn’t score a goal, and any mistake could have knocked us out of the World Cup,” Messi said. “When you are here, you don’t have an easy opponent.”
“我有时候会紧张，因为我们没能进球，任何一个错误都会让我们离开世界杯，”梅西说。“到了这个时候，对手都不好对付。”
But Messi would eventually exert his sway on the game, taking another defensive game plan devoted entirely to him and ripping it to shreds.
但梅西最终发挥了自己对比赛的影响力，又一次直面完全以他为目标的防守计划，并将其粉碎。