SAN FRANCISCO — It looks as if the Google pixie dust isn’t so easy to spread around.
旧金山——看起来，谷歌(Google)的魔法并没有那么容易推而广之。
Marissa Mayer’s arrival at Yahoo as chief executive a year and a half ago was widely hailed as an opportunity to infuse the struggling Internet pioneer with the smarts and cachet that had helped her succeed as a top executive at Google. She was one of the earliest employees at Google, with a reputation for inventiveness and attention to detail. If anyone could fix Yahoo, it was believed, it was Ms. Mayer.
一年半以前，玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)来到雅虎(Yahoo)，各界广泛认为对这家困境中的互联网先锋来说，这是一次机会，会为它带来那种曾帮助梅耶尔在谷歌成为成功高管的智慧与威望。她是谷歌最早的员工之一，以富有创意和对细节精益求精闻名。人们相信，如果有任何人能拯救雅虎，那就是梅耶尔。
But the announcement on Wednesday that she had tossed out her top lieutenant, Henrique de Castro, was her first public acknowledgment that turning around Yahoo would be far more difficult than has sometimes been suggested by the media attention she has received.
然而雅虎周三宣布，梅耶尔已放弃了她的主要副手恩里克·德·卡斯特罗(Henrique de Castro)。这是梅耶尔首次公开承认，扭转雅虎的命运远没有那么简单，而不是像有些针对她的媒体报道所说的那样。
“That was Marissa’s first big hire,” said Robert Peck, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. “You can imagine how difficult it would be to admit a mea culpa.”
“这是玛丽莎第一位重金招来的人，”SunTrust Robinson Humphrey的分析师罗伯特·佩克(Robert Peck)说。“你可以想象，要承认错误会有多不容易。”
Bringing on Mr. de Castro, who was also a longtime Google executive, was just one of many prominent moves Ms. Mayer has made, including buying the blog site Tumblr for $1.1 billion, hiring the television host Katie Couric to be the anchor to a new online news operation and starting an online food magazine.
德·卡斯特罗也曾长期担任谷歌的高管，邀请他加入只是梅耶尔高调做出的众多举措中的一个。她还以11亿美元（约合67亿元人民币）收购了博客网站Tumblr，雇了电视主播凯蒂·库瑞克(Katie Couric)来主持一档在线新闻节目，并启动了一本在线的美食杂志。
While Ms. Mayer took the public spotlight — for example, she personally introduced Yahoo’s new consumer technology site at a trade show in Las Vegas this month — Mr. de Castro was charged with the less sexy but equally vital task of reviving Yahoo’s advertising business. While that would be a herculean task for anyone at a company whose fortunes have been declining for a decade, Mr. de Castro was particularly ill-suited for the job, according to ad-industry executives, analysts and people who worked with him at Google and Yahoo. When Ms. Mayer hired him, the choice mystified people both inside and outside the company. And tension quickly developed between the two leaders, according to the company insiders, most of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to not upset business relationships.
梅耶尔成了公众的焦点——例如，这个月，她亲自在拉斯维加斯的一个行业展会上推出了雅虎新的消费类科技站点——而德卡斯特罗则担负着不那么引人瞩目却同样至关重要的任务：提振雅虎的广告业务。雅虎过去10年的运势每况愈下，对于这家公司的任何人来说，要提振其广告业务都将是无比艰难的。而广告行业高管、分析师和曾在谷歌和雅虎与德卡斯特罗共事的人都说，他是尤其不适合这份工作的。当梅耶尔雇他的时候，这一选择让公司内外的人都深感迷惑。公司内部的人说，这两位公司领导人之间的关系很快就变得紧张起来。这些人中的大多数因为担心会影响商业合作关系，不愿具名。
Mr. de Castro, a former consultant at McKinsey, was fond of using spreadsheets but was weak in his knowledge of Google’s products, said a person who worked with him at Google.
一位曾与德·卡斯特罗在谷歌共事的人说，德·卡斯特罗曾在麦肯锡(McKinsey)担任顾问，他爱用会计表格，但是对谷歌的产品却不甚了解。
Additionally, he was not a charismatic salesman willing to schmooze with Madison Avenue marketers to persuade them to spend their ad dollars on Yahoo instead of on rivals like Facebook and Google.
另外，他并非一位魅力十足的推销员，不愿意与麦迪逊大道上的市场营销人士们拉关系，说服他们把广告费投给雅虎，而不是Facebook和谷歌等竞争对手。
“Henrique wasn’t as market-facing as his predecessors or competitors,” said Amanda Richman, president of investment and activation at Starcom USA, which buys billions of dollars of ads a year on behalf of big consumer brands like Kraft and Kellogg.
美国星网公司(Starcom USA)投资与拓展总裁阿曼达·里奇曼(Amanda Richman)说，“恩里克不像他的前任或竞争对手那样积极面对市场。”美国星网公司每年会代表卡夫(Kraft)和家乐氏(Kellogg)等大的消费品品牌采购数十亿美元的广告。
Mr. de Castro did not respond to phone and email messages on Thursday. Ms. Mayer declined a request for an interview.
周四，德·卡斯特罗没有回复电话和电子邮件。梅耶尔也拒绝了采访的要求。
Although colleagues universally described Mr. de Castro as very smart, they also said he was a poor communicator with an arrogant, abrasive manner. A native Portuguese speaker, his strongly accented English was sometimes hard to understand. At Google, Mr. de Castro had so many negative reviews from employees that the human resources department had been called in to review the situation, according to a person who worked with him there.
虽然同事们普遍认为德·卡斯特罗十分聪明，他们也说他举止傲慢、粗鲁，且不善沟通。德卡斯特罗的母语为葡萄牙语，说英语时有很重的口音，有时候很难听懂。据一位曾与德·卡斯特罗在谷歌共事的人说，员工对他有许多负面的评价，以至于人力资源部门不得不出马进行评估。
Google declined to comment on personnel matters.
谷歌拒绝对人事问题发表评论。
In the end, the whole misadventure might not matter unless Ms. Mayer is able to redirect the company away from its failing core business of selling display ads.
说到底，除非梅耶尔能够彻底改变公司的运作方向，脱离其低迷的核心业务——销售显示广告——这整个不幸事件可能并不重要。
“It certainly didn’t help that there may have been internal conflict, but it probably didn’t make a big difference, either,” said Brian Wieser, an analyst with the Pivotal Research Group. “You can’t overcome the structural issues.”
“如果有内部纷争，肯定对公司不好，但这可能也没什么太大的关系了，”Pivotal Research Group的分析师布赖恩·威泽(Brian Wieser)说道。“你没法克服结构性问题。”
The splashy home-page banner ads that Yahoo rode to riches in the early days of the web are fading away in favor of Google’s search ads, Facebook’s targeted social ads and automated systems that reach consumers on smaller sites that charge a relative pittance. In mobile advertising, the hottest area of growth for the industry, Yahoo has virtually no presence.
在互联网发展的初期，雅虎正是凭借了那种炫目的主页横幅广告发了家，但这种广告形式如今已逐渐失去吸引力，人们纷纷转向谷歌的搜索广告、Facebook的定向社交媒体广告，以及那些在小型网站上接触消费者的自动化系统，它的收费相对来说微不足道。在移动广告领域——广告行业的最热增长领域——雅虎几乎没有任何影响力。
In recent months, Yahoo has begun a series of initiatives to increase traffic to its sites, including new mobile apps, an overhaul of its Flickr photo service, expanded video news offerings and the consumer tech site, which is anchored by David Pogue, a former columnist for The New York Times.
近几个月，雅虎已经采取了一系列行动，来增加它站点的访问量，包括推出新的移动引用、改进它的Flickr照片服务、增加视频新闻的供应，并拓展其消费类科技站点。这一站点的主持人是戴维·波格(David Pogue)——前《纽约时报》的专栏作家。
“With content, there’s eyeballs, and with eyeballs, there’s advertising,” Mr. Peck said.
“有内容就有眼球，有眼球就有广告，”佩克说道。
In addition, Yahoo has overhauled its ad-buying platform and added new formats like so-called native advertising, in which advertisers provide content that looks similar to other articles and videos on the site.
此外，雅虎也为自己的广告购买平台改头换面，增加了新的模式，如所谓的原生广告(native advertising)。广告商会提供一些与网站上其他文章和视频看起来相似的内容。
Ms. Richman said Yahoo has also been contacting more to advertisers, sharing more data about users and ad performance than its rivals, helping brands refine their marketing.
里奇曼说，雅虎一直在联系更多的广告商，比起它的竞争对手们，雅虎会与它们分享更多用户数据和广告效果，帮助品牌改进它们的营销。
For now, investors are basically ignoring all of it.
到目前为止，投资人基本无视了所有这些努力。
“The funny thing is how little any of this matters to the stock,” Mr. Wieser said.
“有趣的是，这些事对股市并没有多少影响，”威泽说道。
Wall Street values Yahoo, which closed on Thursday at $40.34, mostly for its partial ownership stakes in Alibaba, a successful Chinese e-commerce company that plans to sell stock to the public this year, and Yahoo Japan. The core business is not nearly as valuable.
华尔街对雅虎的评价极高，这从很大程度上是因为它所持有的部分阿里巴巴股份和雅虎日本，但其核心业务却远没有那么值钱。阿里巴巴是一家成功的中国电子商务企业，计划今年上市。周四，雅虎收盘报40.34美元。
In the third quarter, Yahoo reported revenue of $1.14 billion, down 5 percent from the previous year. Net income was $297 million, compared with $3.16 billion in the previous year, in which Yahoo had a gain of $2.8 billion from a sale of Alibaba shares.
第三季度，雅虎总收入为11.4亿美元，较上一年同期下降5%。净利润为2.97亿美元，而上一年的则是31.6亿美元。去年，雅虎从出售阿里巴巴的股份上赚得了28亿美元。
It is not clear whether Ms. Mayer will choose another chief operating officer to succeed Mr. de Castro. She has divided his responsibilities among a number of other executives, with Ned Brody, a former AOL executive, overseeing the North American advertising business.
目前尚不清楚梅耶尔是否会选择另一位首席运营官来接替德·卡斯特罗的工作。她已将他的职责分摊给了其他几位高管，其中由美国在线(AOL)的前高管内德·布罗迪(Ned Brody)负责北美的广告业务。
Mr. Peck said the attention on Alibaba’s expected initial public stock offering gives Ms. Mayer more time to fix Yahoo’s core business.
佩克说，各界对阿里巴巴上市计划的关注，让梅耶尔有更多时间来修整雅虎的核心业务。
He also praised Ms. Mayer for having the courage to cut her losses on Mr. de Castro, even though his departure will cost the company tens of millions of dollars in severance and stock compensation that he was promised.
他还赞扬梅耶尔有勇气舍弃德·卡斯特罗，尽管公司要为他的离开支付数以千万计的遣散费和向他所承诺的股权赔偿。
“It’s a testament to her,” he said. “She made a public acknowledgment of an expensive mistake.”
“这是对她能力的证明，”他说。“她公开承认自己犯下了一个昂贵的错误。”