ROME — The Vatican said Wednesday that it had concluded a treaty to recognize Palestinian statehood, a symbolic but significant step welcomed by Palestinians but upsetting to the Israeli government.
罗马——梵蒂冈周三表示，它已经签署了一项承认巴勒斯坦国家身份的条约，这是一个象征性的举动，但有着重大意义，巴勒斯坦对此表示欢迎，以色列政府则感到不满。
Formal recognition of a Palestinian state by the Vatican, which has deep religious interests in the Israeli-occupied Palestinian territories that include Christian holy sites, lends a powerful signal of moral authority and legitimacy to the efforts by the Palestinian Authority's president, Mahmoud Abbas, to achieve statehood despite the long paralyzed Israeli-Palestinian peace process.
梵蒂冈正式承认巴勒斯坦国的做法，给巴勒斯坦民族权力机构主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)争取立国的努力，增添了一种道德权威与合法性的有力信号——尽管巴以和平进程已长期受阻。以色列占领的巴勒斯坦领土中包括了基督教圣地，对梵蒂冈有着重要的宗教意义。
Israel has grown increasingly alarmed about the increased international acceptance of Palestine as a state since the United Nations upgraded the Palestinian delegation's status in 2012 to that of a nonmember observer state. A number of European countries have also signaled their acceptance of Palestinian statehood.
2012年，联合国(United Nations)把巴勒斯坦代表团的地位升格为非成员观察员国；从那时起，以色列就越来越对国际社会对巴勒斯坦国家身份的日益接纳感到担心。一些欧洲国家也表示了他们对巴勒斯坦国家身份的接受。
A statement from a joint commission of Vatican and Palestinian diplomatic officials, posted on the Vatican news website, said “the work of the commission on the text of the agreement has been concluded,” and that it would be submitted for formal approval and for signing “in the near future.”
由梵蒂冈和巴勒斯坦外交官组成的联合委员会在梵蒂冈新闻网站上发声明称“委员会关于协议文本的工作已经结束”，它将在“近期”提交正式批准和签字。
Hanna Amireh, head of a Palestinian committee on church affairs, said the treaty was a broad one regarding the Vatican's interests in the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip, including the standing of churches and church courts, and taxes on church charities, institutions and lands, as well as other cultural and diplomatic matters. He said it had been under negotiation for about a year.
巴勒斯坦国教会事务高级委员会领导人汉纳·阿米雷赫(Hanna Amireh)称，该条约内容广泛，考虑了梵蒂冈在西岸(West Bank)、东耶路撒冷和加沙地带的利益，其中涉及教堂和教会法庭的地位，教会慈善机构缴纳的税款、机构和土地，以及其他文化、外交事务。他表示，谈判工作进行了将近一年。
A senior Israeli Foreign Ministry official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under diplomatic protocol, said Israel was “disappointed to hear” about the Vatican's use of the term “state” in its new treaty.
以色列外交部的一名高级官员表示，以色列听到梵蒂冈在新条约中使用“国家”一词“感到非常失望”。依照外交原则，这名官员要求匿名。
“This step does not advance the peace process and pushes the Palestinian leadership further away from returning to a direct and bilateral negotiation,” the official said in a statement, echoing Israel's reactions to a series of recent parliamentary resolutions on Palestinian statehood in European nations. “Israel will study the agreement and consider its next steps accordingly.”
“这一举措不会推动和平进程，反而会使巴勒斯坦领导层进一步远离直接的双边谈判，”这名官员发表声明称，“以色列将会研究这份协议，然后相应地考虑下一步举措。”此前欧洲国家议会就巴勒斯坦国家地位问题做出的决议，引起过以方的类似反应。