LONDON — A South African judge ruled on Wednesday that prosecutors may appeal her decision to acquit Oscar Pistorius, the track star, on murder charges in the killing of his girlfriend last year.
伦敦——周三，一位南非法官做出裁定，针对她之前做出的田径明星奥斯卡·皮斯托瑞斯(Oscar Pistorius)不构成谋杀罪的决定，检方可以提出上诉。皮斯托瑞斯去年因枪杀女友受审。
But, in a complex ruling, Judge Thokozile Matilda Masipa rejected efforts by state prosecutors to appeal the five-year sentence she passed on him.
但在复杂的裁决中，法官科齐尔·玛蒂尔达·马西珀(Thokozile Matilda Masipa)驳回了公诉方试图推翻她的五年刑期判决的努力。
The prosecution had called the sentence “shockingly inappropriate” to the crime, since Mr. Pistorius could be released on house arrest after 10 months in the hospital wing of a prison in Pretoria, the South African capital.
公诉人曾说这个判决与被告的罪行“惊人地不相称”，因为皮斯托瑞斯在南非首都比勒陀利亚的监狱医院服刑10个月后即可出狱在家服刑。
In September, Judge Masipa acquitted Mr. Pistorius of murder but found him guilty of culpable homicide, equivalent to manslaughter, for firing four rounds from a handgun through a locked toilet cubicle door, killing his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, on the other side.
9月，法官马西珀驳回了对皮斯托瑞斯的谋杀指控，但认为他犯有过失杀人罪。皮斯托瑞斯用手枪开了四枪，透过锁着的卫生间门，打死了卫生间外面的他的女友瑞瓦·史汀坎普(Reeva Steenkamp)。
The judge’s ruling on Wednesday hinged on a distinction in South African law between culpable homicide and a form of murder when a defendant is accused of knowing that his or her actions may cause death.
法官周三的决定基于南非法律对两种罪行的区分：过失杀人和一种形式的谋杀，即被告明知其行为会致人死亡。
On Tuesday, the state prosecutor, Gerrie Nel, argued that Mr. Pistorius must have understood the likely outcome of opening fire and that he had therefore committed a form of murder regarded as a more serious crime than culpable homicide but a lesser offense than premeditated murder, which carries a 25-year minimum sentence.
周二，检察官格里·内尔(Gerrie Nel)提出，皮斯托瑞斯一定知道开枪的后果，因此他犯了这种形式的谋杀罪，情节比过失杀人严重，但比蓄意谋杀较轻，最低可判25年监禁。
In a ruling streamed live on South African news websites from the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, Judge Masipa said the issue was “not an easy one.”
判决在比勒陀利亚北豪登高级法院做出，南非新闻网站进行了直播。法官马西珀说，本案“很不简单”。
On the sentence, she said she was “not persuaded that there was any material misdirection” when she sent Mr. Pistorius to prison for what some legal experts said seemed to be a relatively lenient sentence.
关于刑期，她说她“没有被说服，不认为存在实质性的错误引导”。她对皮斯托瑞斯的监禁判决被一些法律专家认为较轻。