WASHINGTON — The man suspected of opening fire on Republican members of the congressional baseball team early Wednesday morning was distraught over the election of President Donald Trump and traveled to Washington in recent weeks to protest, his brother said Wednesday.
华盛顿——周三早上向国会棒球队多名共和党成员开枪的嫌疑人，此前对唐纳德·特朗普当选总统感到焦虑不安，最近几周前往华盛顿抗议，该消息来自他的兄弟。
The suspect, James Thomas Hodgkinson, 66, of Belleville, Illinois, died in a Washington hospital after a shootout with police.
来自伊利诺伊州贝尔维尔的66岁嫌疑人詹姆斯·托马斯·霍奇金森(James Thomas Hodgkinson)在与警方交火中受伤，后在华盛顿一家医院不治身亡。
“I know he wasn’t happy with the way things were going, the election results and stuff,” his brother, Michael Hodgkinson, said in a telephone interview shortly after he received the news Wednesday. He added that he was not close to his brother and had not been aware of why he remained in Washington.
“我知道他对目前的状况不开心，选举结果之类的，”他的兄弟迈克尔·霍奇金森(Michael Hodgkinson)在周三接到消息后不久接受电话采访时说。他还表示，他与自己的兄弟关系不怎么亲密，并不知道他为何滞留在华盛顿。
“Totally out of the blue,” he added, saying that his brother was engaged in politics but otherwise led a normal life.
“完全想不到，”他接着讲。他说他的兄弟有参与政治活动，生活倒是正常。
Michael Hodgkinson said his sister had spoken with the shooting suspect’s wife Tuesday. According to his account, the wife said that Hodgkinson had called home to say he was planning to come home because he missed his wife and dogs.
迈克尔·霍奇金森表示，他的姐妹周二与枪击事件嫌疑人的妻子交谈过。据他讲，霍奇金森的妻子说他给家里打过电话，说他准备回家，因为想念家里的妻子和狗。
Instead, he is suspected of opening fire shortly after 7 a.m. Wednesday at a baseball field just outside Washington and showering bullets on members of Congress, their staff and the police. Five people were wounded.
结果，他却涉嫌周三早上7点刚过在华盛顿近郊一个棒球场内朝国会议员、他们的工作人员及警察开了多枪，导致五人受伤。
Hodgkinson, who goes by Tom, owns a home-inspection business in the rural outskirts of Belleville, a southern Illinois town of more than 40,000 just across the Mississippi River from St. Louis. Records show that his inspection license, registered to a company called JTH Inspections, expired last November and had not been renewed.
被大家叫做“汤姆”的霍奇金森在贝尔维尔郊外的乡村经营着一个验房公司，那是伊利诺州南部一座4万多人口的城镇，隔着密西西比河与圣路易斯相望。有记录显示，他的验房许可证登记在名为JTH核验(JTH Inspections)的公司名下，上月已经过期，不曾更新。
Hodgkinson lived about 100 yards off a rural road in a two-story, seemingly well-kept home with tan vinyl siding.
霍奇金森住在一栋看起来维护得不错、装有棕褐色乙烯基壁板的两层楼房里，距离一条乡间公路约100码（约合90米）远。
Charlene Brennan, a real estate agent in Belleville, said Hodgkinson had conducted some home inspections as a part of sales she worked on over the years.
贝尔维尔的一名房地产经纪查伦·布伦南(Charlene Brennan)表示，在她过去数年销售的房屋中，有一部分是霍奇金森做的验房工作。
“He did not come off as a radical,” Brennan said. “He did not come off as an unstable individual. He wasn’t belligerent; he was just kind of a normal guy.”
“他不是一个激进分子，”布伦南说。“不像是情绪不稳定的人。他也不好斗；就是那种普通人。”
Still, social media accounts that appear to be affiliated with Hodgkinson show a man deeply connected to liberal politics and distrustful of Republican-controlled Washington. In posts, he rails against Republicans, lavishes praise upon Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, the one-time presidential candidate, and shows a deep engagement with the churn of news coming out of Washington.
不过，似乎与霍奇金森有关联的社交媒体账号所呈现的，却是一个与自由主义政治有紧密联系、对由共和党控制的华盛顿不信任的人。在这些帖子中，他猛烈抨击共和党人，大肆赞扬曾经的总统候选人、佛蒙特参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，密切关注从华盛顿传出的新闻。
Sanders said in a statement Wednesday that he was aware Hodgkinson had volunteered for his presidential campaign. And he condemned violence of any type.
桑德斯周三发声明称，他知道霍奇金森曾为他的竞选活动做过志愿工作。他对任何类型的暴力行为都持谴责态度。
“I am sickened by this despicable act,” Sanders wrote. “Let me be as clear as I can be. Violence of any kind is unacceptable in our society and I condemn this action in the strongest possible terms.”
“我对这种可鄙的行为感到厌恶，”桑德斯写道。“今天我要尽可能地把话说明白。在我们的社会里，任何暴力行为都是不可接受的，我强烈谴责这种行为。”
According to the Saint Clair County Clerk’s Office, where Hodgkinson is registered to vote, he has repeatedly voted in Democratic primaries in recent years. There was no party affiliation listed on his voter file.
据霍奇金森进行选票登机的圣克莱尔县办公室透露，最近几年他曾多次在民主党初选中投票。他的选举文档中没有列明所属党派。
A query to the St. Clair County Sheriff’s Department showed a number of complaints in recent years, mostly after run-ins with neighbors. In late March, the sheriff responded to a report of a man firing dozens of shots near Hodgkinson’s home. When authorities arrived, they found Hodgkinson and advised him not to shoot in the area. An incident report indicates that he presented a valid firearms owner identification card.
在询问了圣克莱尔县警局之后，时报发现霍奇金森最近几年遭到不少投诉，其中大多是在他与邻居发生口角。3月末的时候，警局曾接到报案，称一名男子在霍奇金森家附近开了几十枪。警方到达后，看到了霍奇金森，于是建议他不要在这个区域开枪。一份事故报告显示，他拿出的是有效的枪支持有者身份证件。
A law enforcement official said that on Wednesday, Hodgkinson was armed with a handgun and a rifle.
一名执法官员周三表示，袭击发生时，霍奇金森携带着一支手枪和一支步枪。
Hodgkinson appears to have been residing in Alexandria for more than a month. Most mornings, he could be found at the city’s YMCA, according to William D. Euille, the city’s mayor from 2003 to 2016, who works out at the facility each morning.
霍奇金森似乎已经在亚历山大呆了一个多月。自2003年至2016年担任亚历山大市长的威廉·D·于伊厄(William D. Euille)每天早上都在该市的基督教青年会(YMCA)锻炼，他说大多数早上都能在这里看到霍奇金森。
The two men struck up a relationship, Euille said, and Hodgkinson gave the impression of a typical, if lonely, newcomer to an area that is used to new faces.
于伊厄表示，他们两人因此熟悉起来。霍奇金森给他的印象是一个经常有新面孔出现的地方会出现的那种典型的新来者形象，有点孤独。
“He seemed like a loner,” Euille said, “but very nice.”
“他看起来像个独来独往的人，”于伊厄说。“但很友好。”
He worked out in the gym and showered in the facility’s locker room, Euille said. He made small talk about politics and old movies, and asked the mayor about finding work in town and good places to eat. Most days, Euille said, he would sit — often for hours at a time — in a small reception area using his laptop.
于伊厄表示，他在场馆内健身，在这里的更衣室冲澡。他会聊政治和老电影，还向这位市长询问怎么在城里找工作，哪里有不错的吃饭的地方。于伊厄称，大多数时间他会坐在青年会小小的接待区，用自己的笔记本电脑，通常一坐就是几个小时。
That was the case Tuesday morning as well, Euille said. Twenty-four hours later, Hodgkinson unleashed his attack just a few paces from the gym’s front door, on the well-groomed baseball diamond where the congressmen were practicing.
于伊厄提到，那个周二早上也是如此。24个小时之后，霍奇金森在距离健身馆前门几步之遥的地方发动了袭击，就在一座有数名国会议员练球的整洁的棒球场。