PALM BEACH, Fla. —Everything seemed to sparkle at the Mar-a-Lago estate here on a recent afternoon. The sun glinted off the pool and the black Secret Service S.U.V.s in the circular driveway. Palm trees rustled in a warm breeze, croquet balls clicked and a security guard stood at the entrance to Donald J. Trump’s private living quarters.
佛罗里达州棕榈滩——前不久的一天下午，在这里的马阿拉歌庄园里，一切似乎都闪耀着光芒。游泳池的水面波光粼粼。环形私人车道上，来自特勤局(Secret Service)的那几辆黑色SUV在阳光下闪闪发亮。棕榈树在温暖的微风中沙沙作响，槌球时而发出咔嗒咔嗒的声音。一名保安站在唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)这栋私人宅邸的入口处。
“You can always tell when the king is here,” Mr. Trump’s longtime butler here, Anthony Senecal, said of the master of the house and Republican presidential candidate.
“一眼就能看出国王在不在这里，”长期担任特朗普管家的安东尼·塞内卡尔(Anthony Senecal)在谈起房子的主人、共和党总统候选人特朗普时说。
The king was returning that day to his Versailles, a 118-room snowbird’s paradise that will become a winter White House if he is elected president. Mar-a-Lago is where Mr. Trump comes to escape, entertain and luxuriate in a Mediterranean-style manse, built 90 years ago by the cereal heiress Marjorie Merriweather Post.
那一天，国王回到了自己的凡尔赛宫。这是一座有118个房间的避寒乐园。如果特朗普当选为总统，这里将成为冬季的白宫。马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)这栋90年前由谷物食品帝国的女继承人玛乔丽·梅里维瑟·波斯特(Marjorie Merriweather Post)修建的地中海式大宅，是特朗普逃离喧嚣、款待宾客和尽情享受的地方。
Few people here can anticipate Mr. Trump’s demands and desires better than Mr. Senecal, 74, who has worked at the property for nearly 60 years, and for Mr. Trump for nearly 30 of them.
在这里，几乎没人能比74岁的塞内卡尔更好地预知并满足特朗普的需求和愿望。他在这里工作了近60年，其中近30年是为特朗普服务。
He understands Mr. Trump’s sleeping patterns and how he likes his steak (“It would rock on the plate, it was so well done”), and how Mr. Trump insists — despite the hair salon on the premises — on doing his own hair.
他了解特朗普的睡眠习惯，清楚他喜欢吃几分熟的牛排（“它会在盘子上弹，太棒了”），他也知道尽管庄园里配了美发沙龙，特朗普依然会坚持自己打理头发。
Mr. Senecal knows how to stroke his ego and lift his spirits, like the time years ago he received an urgent warning from Mr. Trump’s soon-to-land plane that the mogul was in a sour mood. Mr. Senecal quickly hired a bugler to play “Hail to the Chief” as Mr. Trump stepped out of his limousine to enter Mar-a-Lago.
塞内卡尔知道怎么安抚他的情绪，提振他的精神，就像多年前特朗普乘坐的飞机很快就要降落时，塞内卡尔接到紧急警告，得知这位巨头心情低落时一样。接着，塞内卡尔迅速请到一名号手，在特朗普从豪华轿车上下来，准备进入马阿拉歌时演奏了一曲《向统帅致敬》(Hail to the Chief)。
Most days, though, he greeted Mr. Trump with little fanfare, taking the suit he arrived in to be pressed in the full-service laundry in the basement.
不过大部分时候，他迎接特朗普的方式都没什么大张旗鼓的地方。他会在特朗普进屋后接过西装，让服务齐全的地下洗衣房将其熨平。
The next morning, before dawn and after about four hours’ sleep, Mr. Trump would meet him at the arched entrance of his private quarters to accept a bundle of newspapers including The New York Times, The Daily News, The New York Post and the Palm Beach papers. Mr. Trump would emerge hours later, in khakis, a white golf shirt and baseball cap. If the cap was white, the staff noticed, the boss was in a good mood. If it was red, it was best to stay away.
第二天早上黎明前，睡了大约四个小时的特朗普，会在私人居住区的拱门那里与塞内卡尔碰面，拿到一叠报纸，包括《纽约时报》(The New York Times)、《每日新闻》(The Daily News)、《纽约邮报》(The New York Post)和棕榈滩当地的报纸。几小时后，特朗普会再度现身。此时的他会穿上卡其色裤子和白色高尔夫衬衫，戴一顶棒球帽。工作人员注意到，如果帽子是白色的，说明老板心情不错。如果是红色的，最好离他远一点。
On Sundays, Mr. Trump would drive himself to his nearby golf course, alternating each year between his black Bentley and his white Bentley.
周日，特朗普会自己开车去他位于附近的高尔夫球场。他有两辆宾利(Bentley)，一辆黑色的，一辆白色的，每年会换着开。
Mr. Senecal tried to retire in 2009, but Mr. Trump decided he was irreplaceable, so while Mr. Senecal was relieved of his butler duties, he has been kept around as a kind of unofficial historian at Mar-a-Lago. “Tony, to retire is to expire,” Mr. Trump told him. “I’ll see you next season.”
2009年时，塞内卡尔想退休，但特朗普断定无人能替代他。因此，尽管塞内卡尔的管家职责被免除了，但他仍被要求留在身旁，充当马阿拉歌非正式的历史专家。“托尼，退休就是死亡，”特朗普对他说。“下个季节见。”
Mr. Senecal, with horn-rimmed glasses, a walrus mustache and a white pocket kerchief in his black jacket, seems to reflect his boss’s worldview: He worries about attacks by Islamic terrorists and is critical of Mr. Trump’s ex-wives.
塞内卡尔戴着一副角质框架眼镜、留着海象须、黑色上衣的口袋里，装饰着一块白色方巾。他似乎反映了他老板的世界观：他担心伊斯兰恐怖分子会发起袭击，对特朗普的几任前妻持批评态度。
And like Mr. Trump, he is at ease among the celebrities who visit the estate. But while he might once have admired Dixie Carter sipping crème de menthe by the fireplace and reciting soliloquies from the television show “Designing Women,” these days Mr. Senecal encounters Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey lounging on a couch under the living room’s 21-foot gold-leafed ceiling, or chatting with Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama as he exits the luxurious Spanish Room.
而且和特朗普一样，置身于到访这里的社会名流中时，他轻松自在。尽管可能一度羡慕过在壁炉旁品尝薄荷甜酒，复述电视剧《设计女人》(Designing Women)独白的迪克西·卡特(Dixie Carter)，塞内卡尔如今在21英尺高、天花板贴着金箔的客厅，会见到新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)，克里斯蒂懒洋洋地躺在沙发上，或是和刚从奢华的西班牙厅(Spanish Room)出来的阿拉巴马州参议员杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)聊天。
The butler’s up-close observations of Mr. Trump over the years have revealed not only the mogul’s quirks — Mr. Trump rarely appears in bathing trunks, for example, and does not like to swim — but also his habitual, self-soothing exaggerations.
通过这些年的近距离观察，这名管家看到的不只是这位大亨的怪癖——比如，特朗普很少穿泳裤现身，而且不喜欢游泳——还有他习惯性的、自我安慰的浮夸。
In the early years, Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka slept in the same children’s suite that Dina Merrill, an actress and a daughter of Mrs. Post, occupied in the 1930s. Mr. Trump liked to tell guests that the nursery rhyme-themed tiles in the room were made by a young Walt Disney.
早年间，特朗普的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)睡的儿童套房，是女星、波斯特之女迪娜·梅里尔(Dina Merrill)在30年代曾经住过的。特朗普喜欢告诉客人，儿童房里以童谣为主题的瓷砖出自年轻的沃尔特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)之手。
“You don’t like that, do you?” Mr. Trump would say when he caught Mr. Senecal rolling his eyes. The house historian would protest that it was not true.
发现塞内卡尔翻白眼时，特朗普会说，“你不喜欢我这么说，对吧？”这栋宅子的历史专家会抗议说那不是真的。
“Who cares?” Mr. Trump would respond with a laugh.
“谁在乎呀？”特朗普会大笑着说。
Mr. Trump is abundantly proud of his ability to drive a golf ball, once asking rhetorically during a news conference: “Do I hit it long? Is Trump strong?”
特朗普对自己高尔夫开球的能力十分自豪。他曾在一次新闻发布会上夸张地问：“我打得远吧？特朗普很强吧？”
Mr. Senecal suggested that Mr. Trump was perhaps not quite as strong as he imagined, remembering times they would hit balls together from the Mar-a-Lago property into the Intracoastal Waterway.
想起两人一起把球从马阿拉歌的大宅打进沿海水道的日子，塞内卡尔称特朗普可能没有他自己想象得那么厉害。
“Tony, how far is that?” Mr. Trump would ask.
“托尼，这有多远？”特朗普会问。
“It’s like 275 yards,” Mr. Senecal would respond, though he said the actual distance was 225 yards.
“大约275码，”塞内卡尔会说，不过他说实际距离也就225码。
Still, Mr. Senecal said that Mr. Trump could be generous when the mood struck him, sometimes peeling $100 bills from a wad in his pocket to give to the groundskeepers, whom Mr. Senecal described as appreciative.
不过塞内卡尔说，心情好的话特朗普可能会很大方，有时候会从兜里的一沓钞票中抽出几张100美元的，送给场地管理人员。塞内卡尔说那些人会很感激。
“You’re a Hispanic and you’re in here trimming the trees and everything, and a guy walks up and hands you a hundred dollars,” Mr. Senecal said. “And they love him, not for that, they just love him.”
“如果你是西语裔，在这里修剪树枝和其他植物，这时候有个人走过来，递给你一百美元，”塞内卡尔说。“他们喜欢他，不是为了钱，就是喜欢他。”
According to Mar-a-Lago lore, Mrs. Post, who was once the wealthiest woman in the United States, scoped out the property that would become the estate in the 1920s by crawling through the junglelike brush between Lake Worth and the Atlantic Ocean. She imported stone from Genoa, Italy, and 16th-century Flemish tapestries that she protected by drawing the drapes in the brightest hours. (They faded after Mr. Trump bought the place and blasted the living room with sunlight.)
有关马阿拉歌的传言称，为了评估庄园所在的这块地，曾是美国最富有女性的波斯特爬过了沃思湖(Lake Worth)和大西洋之间如丛林般的灌木丛。20年代，这块地变成了一座庄园。她从意大利热那亚进口了石材和16世纪的佛兰德挂毯，为了保护它们，她还会在一天中阳光最强烈的时候拉上窗帘。（特朗普买下这里，并让阳光直接照进客厅后，它们褪色了。）