In the cramped metropolises of East Asia, brown toy poodles have become the latest must-have accessory.
在东亚拥挤的大都会里，棕色的玩具型贵宾犬已经成为了最新的必需品。
They amble down Chinese streets in sweaters, bowties and dinosaur costumes. They are so popular in Tottori, Japan, that the police force has added two female toy poodles, Fuga and Karin, to its ranks. In China, the pets are known as “taidi,” a riff on the English word “teddy.”
贵宾犬们穿着毛衣，戴着领结，或是装扮成恐龙的样子，在中国的大街小巷漫步。在日本的鸟取县，它们十分受欢迎，连警察队伍中也增加了两只玩具型贵宾母犬，Fuga和Karin。在中国，这种宠物狗被称作“泰迪”，这种说法源自英文单词“teddy”。
So, why toy poodles? And why brown?
那么，为什么受欢迎的是玩具型贵宾犬？为什么是棕色的？
Chinese poodle-lovers described the breed as smart, easygoing and humanlike in personality. They said the coffee-colored coats set these pups apart from standard poodles and made it easy to conceal grime from the street.
中国的贵宾犬爱好者称，贵宾犬聪明、温和、性格与人类很像。他们说，咖啡色的毛发可以让这些小狗与传统的贵宾犬区分开，同时更容易掩藏在街上沾染的灰尘。
In the hygiene-obsessed cities of East Asia, there is another perk: toy poodles are known for shedding very little hair.
在痴迷于卫生的东亚城市里，这种狗还有一个额外的优点：众所周知，玩具型贵宾犬掉毛很少。
“I regard her as one of my family,” said Xu Chen, 25, a flight attendant from Beijing whose poodle, Ceicei, is clean, cuddly and low maintenance. “She’s very beautiful and smart.”
“我把她当作我的家人，”25岁的徐晨说。徐晨是一名空姐，来自北京。她的贵宾犬Ceicei干净可爱，保养成本低。“她非常漂亮，也很机灵。”
Of the 950,000 dogs in Beijing last year, more than 13 percent, or about 125,000, were toy poodles, according to the Beijing Kennel Club. They outpaced other breeds like the bichon frisé, the golden retriever and the Welsh corgi.
北京养犬协会(Beijing Kennel Club)称，去年北京市的95万只狗中，超过13%的狗（约12.5万只）是玩具型贵宾犬。贵宾犬的数量超过了比熊犬、金毛猎犬和威尔士柯基犬等其他品种。
Shen Ruihong, who leads the club, said demand for toy poodles in China surged several years ago after a craze in Japan. Toy poodles starting showing up on popular television programs, and soon “they went viral,” he said, especially among the young women who fuel so many fads.
北京养犬协会秘书长沈瑞洪说，日本出现贵宾犬狂潮之后的几年，中国对贵宾犬的需求激增。玩具型贵宾犬开始出现在热门的电视节目上，很快“它们就火起来了”，他说，尤其是在引领时尚的年轻女性中间。
“The more people who raised them, the more people who wanted them,” he said. “Now we have too many.”
“养的人越多，越多人想要养，”他说，“现在（泰迪）就太多了。”