The Washington Post and Guardian U.S. on Monday won the Pulitzer Prize for public service, among the most prestigious awards in journalism, for their articles based on National Security Agency documents leaked by the former government contractor Edward J. Snowden.
周一，《华盛顿邮报》和《卫报》美国版获得了普利策公共服务奖，获奖作品是讲述前政府承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）文件的文章，该奖项是新闻界最具声望的奖项之一。
Through a series of reports that exposed the N.S.A.’s widespread domestic surveillance program, The Post and Guardian U.S. set off an international debate on the limits of government surveillance. The papers also came under heavy criticism by the American and British governments, with lawmakers accusing them of compromising national security.
《卫报》和《华盛顿邮报》通过一系列报道披露了NSA覆盖广泛的国内监听项目，引发了国际社会对政府监听范围的讨论。这两家报纸还受到了美国和英国政府的严厉批评，议员们纷纷指责它们对国家安全造成了威胁。
The Pulitzer board said that it gave the award for the “authoritative and insightful reports that helped the public understand how the disclosures fit into the larger framework of national security.”
普利策委员会称，之所以把这个奖项颁给它们，是因为它们进行了“权威且深入的报道，帮助公众理解了泄密事件对于国家安全整体框架的意义”。
Alan Rusbridger, the editor of The Guardian in London, said he hoped that the public service prize might lead American authorities to reassess their position on Mr. Snowden, who has been charged by the United States and has sought asylum in Russia.
伦敦《卫报》的编辑艾伦·拉斯布里杰(Alan Rusbridger)说，他希望公共服务奖能促使美国官方重新考虑他们对斯诺登的立场。斯诺登受到了美国的指控，并已向俄罗斯寻求庇护。
“It’s about time there was a more grown-up discussion about what he’s done,” Mr. Rusbridger said. “Treating this as though it was simply a criminal matter is not an adequate response.”
“是时候对他的所作所为进行更理性的讨论了，”拉斯布里杰说，“简单地把此事作为刑事案件来处理，并不是一个合理的回应。”
David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, who was not a Pulitzer judge, said that the story was “the epitome of important reporting and the epitome of what public service in journalism is all about.”
《纽约客》(The New Yorker)杂志的编辑戴维·雷姆尼克(David Remnick)说，前述报道“是重大报道的典范，也是体现新闻界公共服务意义所在的典范”。雷姆尼克并未担任普利策奖评委。
The Boston Globe won the breaking news prize for its coverage of the Boston Marathon bombing, which killed three people and wounded at least 260. Tuesday is the first anniversary of the blast.
《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)凭借对波士顿马拉松爆炸案的报道获得了突发新闻奖。这起爆炸案共导致三人死亡、至少260人受伤。本周二是此次爆炸案的一周年纪念日。
In the literature categories, the fiction prize went to Donna Tartt for “The Goldfinch,” which was described by the Pulitzer committee as “a beautifully written coming-of-age novel with exquisitely drawn characters that follows a grieving boy’s entanglement with a small famous painting.”
在文学类别中，唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)凭借《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)赢得了小说奖。普利策委员会称，这部小说是“一部关于青春期的美文小说，人物刻画精致，讲述了一个伤心男孩与一件小幅名画之间的纠葛。”
The New York Times won two awards, both for photography. Tyler Hicks won the breaking news photography prize for his coverage of a terrorist attack at an upscale mall in Nairobi, Kenya, that left more than 60 people dead. Josh Haner won the feature photography award for his images of the painstaking recovery of a Boston Marathon bombing survivor.
《纽约时报》获得了两个奖项，两个奖项都与摄影有关。泰勒·希克斯(Tyler Hicks)获得了突发新闻摄影奖，获奖作品是他拍摄的肯尼亚内罗毕一个高级购物中心遭遇恐怖袭击的照片，该袭击导致60多人丧生。乔什·哈纳(Josh Haner)则凭借他拍下的一名波士顿马拉松爆炸案幸存者的痛苦恢复过程获得了专题摄影奖。
Also notable this year was the absence of a prize in the feature writing category. The decision was “not a comment on a state of feature writing,” said Sig Gissler, the administrator of the prizes for Columbia University. The rules require that an entry get a majority vote from the committee, he said. The three finalists “after careful consideration,” he said, did not get there. The decision was not unique, Mr. Gissler said. In 2012 there was no award for fiction, for an 11th time in that category’s history. No feature writing award was given in 2004.
今年值得注意的还有专题类奖项的空缺。哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)普利策奖评委会主席西·吉斯勒(Sig Gissler)表示，这一决定“不是对专题报道写作状况的评论”。他表示，规则要求参赛作品必须得到委员会的多数投票。他称，“经过仔细的考虑”，入围决选的三篇作品都没有获得多数票。吉斯勒还表示，这一决定并非独一无二。2012年，普利策奖第11次出现小说类奖项空缺。2004年，专题类奖项空缺。
The Washington Post won a second award, for explanatory journalism. Eli Saslow, 31, a staff writer, won for a series of articles on American families that rely on the federal food stamp program. The Post’s awards arrived under the leadership of a new executive editor, Martin Baron, who took the paper’s top job in January 2013, and a new owner, the Amazon founder Jeffrey P. Bezos, who bought the paper last summer.
《华盛顿邮报》还获得了一个奖项——解释性报道奖。该报专职撰稿人、31岁的伊莱·萨斯洛(Eli Saslow)凭借一系列描写依靠联邦食品券计划的美国家庭的文章获得该奖。在新任执行主编马丁·巴伦(Martin Baron)及新老板杰弗里·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)的领导下，《华邮》获得了上述奖项。巴伦于2013年1月获得该报高级职位，亚马逊(Amazon)创始人贝佐斯于去年夏天收购了该报。
Mr. Baron said that the two prizes his paper had won were for articles he considered “tremendously important.” The articles that won the public service award, he said, did not “need vindication.”
巴伦表示，《华邮》的获奖文章都是他认为“极其重要”的文章。他表示，获得公共服务奖的文章不“需要证明”。
“The reporting was solid in every way,” Mr. Baron said. “It delved into an overwhelmingly important subject, one that had been kept secret from the American public.”
“该报道在各个方面都非常扎实，”巴伦说，“它深入研究了一个极其重要的问题，相关机构一直在对美国公众隐瞒这一问题。”
Jason Szep and Andrew R. C. Marshall of Reuters won the international reporting prize for coverage of the Rohingya, a persecuted Muslim minority, in Myanmar.
路透社(Reuter)的杰森·赛普(Jason Szep)和安德鲁·R·C马歇尔(Andrew R. C. Marshall)获得了国际报道奖，获奖作品是对在缅甸遭到迫害的穆斯林少数族裔罗辛亚的报道。
The investigative reporting prize was won by Chris Hamby of the Center for Public Integrity, for reporting on coal miners with black lung as they struggled against the system. Will Hobson and Michael LaForgia of The Tampa Bay Times won the local reporting prize for a series on housing for the homeless. David Philipps of The Gazette in Colorado Springs, Colo., won the national reporting prize for articles on wounded veterans.
公共诚信中心(Center for Public Integrity)的克里斯·汉比(Chris Hamby)获得了调查性报道奖，获奖作品是有关身患黑肺病的煤矿工人与体制抗争的报道。《坦帕湾时报》(The Tampa Bay Times)的威尔·霍布森(Will Hobson)和迈克尔·拉福尔贾(Michael LaForgia)凭借有关流浪人口住房问题的系列文章获得地方新闻报道奖。科罗拉多州斯普林斯的《公报》(The Gazette)的戴维·菲利普斯(David Philipps)因关于负伤老兵的文章而获得了国内新闻报道奖。
The prize for general nonfiction was awarded to “Toms River: A Story of Science and Salvation” by Dan Fagin, a book about a New Jersey seashore town’s cluster of childhood cancers linked to water and air pollution. The drama prize went to “The Flick” by Annie Baker, a play focusing on three employees of a Massachusetts art-house movie theater.
丹·费金(Dan Fagin)的《汤姆斯河:科学与救赎的故事》(Toms River: A Story of Science and Salvatio)获得了非虚构类作品奖，该书讲述了水及空气污染致使新泽西海滨小镇一些儿童患上癌症的故事。获得戏剧奖的作品是安妮·贝克(Annie Baker)的“The Flick”，这部戏剧围绕马萨诸塞州某艺术影院的三名员工展开。