“My position was straightforward,” Glenn Greenwald writes. “By ordering illegal eavesdropping, the president had committed crimes and should be held accountable for them.” You break the law, you pay the price: It’s that simple.
“我的立场很简单，”格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)写道，“总统下令进行非法窃听是犯罪行为，应该追究法律责任。”犯法就要付出代价，就这么简单。
But it’s not that simple, as Greenwald must know. There are laws against government eavesdropping on American citizens, and there are laws against leaking official government documents. You can’t just choose the laws you like and ignore the ones you don’t like. Or perhaps you can, but you can’t then claim that it’s all very straightforward.
但是格林沃尔德应该知道，哪里会那么简单。法律禁止政府窃听美国公民，法律也禁止泄露政府公务文件。你不能只选择你喜欢的法律，不理会你不喜欢的法律。也许你可以选择，但是你不能就此声称一切都非常简单。
Greenwald was the go-between for Edward Snowden and some of the newspapers that reported on Snowden’s collection of classified documents exposing huge eavesdropping by the National Security Agency, among other scandals. His story is full of journalistic derring-do, mostly set in exotic Hong Kong. It’s a great yarn, which might be more entertaining if Greenwald himself didn’t come across as so unpleasant. Maybe he’s charming and generous in real life. But in “No Place to Hide,” Greenwald seems like a self-righteous sourpuss, convinced that every issue is “straightforward,” and if you don’t agree with him, you’re part of something he calls “the authorities,” who control everything for their own nefarious but never explained purposes.
格林沃尔德是爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)和一些报道斯诺登收集的机密文件的报纸之间的中间人。这些文件揭露了美国国家安全局的大范围窃听及其他丑闻。他的故事充满了新闻工作者的匹夫之勇，主要的背景位于充满异域风情的香港。这是个精彩的故事，如果格林沃尔德本人不是这么讨厌的话，这个故事也许会更有趣。也许他在现实生活中迷人、慷慨，但是在《无处可藏》(No Place to Hide)中，格林沃尔德像个自以为是、满腹牢骚的人，认定所有的事情都很“简单”，如果你不同意他的看法，你就是他所谓的“当局”的一部分，他认为“当局”为了自己邪恶的、从不解释的目的控制着一切。
Reformers tend to be difficult people. But they come in different flavors. There are ascetics, like Henry James’s Miss Birdseye (from “The Bostonians”), “who knew less about her fellow creatures, if possible, after 50 years of humanitary zeal, than on the day she had gone into the field to testify against the iniquity of most arrangements.”
改革者都是不好对付的人。不过，他们的风格各不相同。有些是苦行主义者，比如亨利·詹姆斯(Henry James)的小说《波士顿人》(The Bostonians)中的伯宰小姐(Miss Birdseye)，“在50年的人道主义热情之后，她对人类的了解比她到实地印证大多数安排都不公平那天要更少”。
There are narcissists like Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks. These are self-canonized men who feel that, as saints, they are entitled to ignore the rules that constrain ordinary mortals. Greenwald notes indignantly that Assange was being criticized along these lines “well before he was accused of sex crimes by two women in Sweden.” (Two decades ago the British writer Michael Frayn wrote a wonderful novel and play called “Now You Know,” about a character similar to Assange.)
有些是自恋狂，比如维基解密(WikiLeaks)的创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)。他们以圣人自居，感觉作为圣人，他们有权不理会约束普通人的规则。格林沃尔德愤慨地指出，阿桑奇在“瑞典被两个女人指控性侵犯之前很久”就已经遭到了这样的批评（20年前，英国作家迈克尔·弗莱恩[Michael Frayn]写过一个精彩的小说和剧本，名叫《现在你知道了》[Now You Know]，主人公是一个与阿桑奇类似的人物）。
Then there are political romantics, played in this evening’s performance by Edward Snowden, almost 31 years old, with the sweet, innocently conspiratorial worldview of a precocious teenager. He appears to yearn for martyrdom and, according to Greenwald, “exuded an extraordinary equanimity” at the prospect of “spending decades, or life, in a supermax prison.”
有些是政治浪漫主义者，比如爱德华·斯诺登。将近31岁的他有着早熟青少年的甜美、纯洁的阴谋论世界观。他似乎渴望殉道，据格林沃尔德说，他对于有可能“在高度戒备的监狱里度过几十年或一生表现出异乎寻常的平静”。
And Greenwald? In his mind, he is not a reformer but a ruthless revolutionary — Robespierre, or Trotsky. The ancien régime is corrupt through and through, and he is the man who will topple it. Sounding now like Herbert Marcuse with his once fashionable theory of “repressive tolerance,” Greenwald writes about “the implicit bargain that is offered to citizens: Pose no challenge and you have nothing to worry about. Mind your own business, and support or at least tolerate what we do, and you’ll be fine. Put differently, you must refrain from provoking the authority that wields surveillance powers if you wish to be deemed free of wrongdoing. This is a deal that invites passivity, obedience and conformity.”
那格林沃尔德呢？他认为自己不是改革者，而是无情的革命者——类似于罗伯斯庇尔(Robespierre)或托洛茨基(Trotsky)。他认为旧制度彻头彻尾地腐败，他就是那个推翻它的人。格林沃尔德提到“给公民的隐性交易：不要挑战，你就没什么好担心的。管好自己的事，支持或者至少容忍我们做的事，你就没事。换句话说，如果你想被认为没有做坏事，就必须忍住不要激怒行使监视权力的当局。这个交易的结果是民众的不抵抗、顺从和随大流。” 这听起来像赫伯特·马尔库塞(Herbert Marcuse)曾经非常流行的理论——“压抑性容忍”(repressive tolerance)。
Throughout “No Place to Hide,” Greenwald quotes any person or publication taking his side in any argument. If an article or editorial in The Washington Post or The New York Times (which he says “takes direction from the U.S. government about what it should and shouldn’t publish”) endorses his view on some issue, he is sure to cite it as evidence that he is right. If Margaret Sullivan, the public editor (ombudsman, or reader representative) of The Times, agrees with him on some controversy, he is in heaven. He cites at length the results of a poll showing that more people are coming around to his notion that the government’s response to terrorism after 9/11 is more dangerous than the threat it is designed to meet.
在整个《无处可藏》中，只要在辩论中站在格林沃尔德这一侧的人或出版物的话，他就会加以引用。如果《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)或《纽约时报》（他说《纽约时报》“在出版内容上直接接受美国政府的指令”）的一篇文章或社论在某个问题上支持他的观点，他一定会引用来证明自己是正确的。如果《纽约时报》的公共编辑（意见调查员或读者代表）玛格利特·沙利文(Margaret Sullivan)在某项争议上同意他的观点，那他简直会心花怒放。他详细引用了一项民意调查的结果，那项调查表明更多人转而同意他的观点——政府在9·11事件后对恐怖主义的应对措施比它想要应对的威胁更危险。
Greenwald doesn’t seem to realize that every piece of evidence he musters demonstrating that people agree with him undermines his own argument that “the authorities” brook no dissent. No one is stopping people from criticizing the government or supporting Greenwald in any way. Nobody is preventing the nation’s leading newspaper from publishing a regular column in its own pages dissenting from company or government orthodoxy. If a majority of citizens now agree with Greenwald that dissent is being crushed in this country, and will say so openly to a stranger who rings their doorbell or their phone and says she’s a pollster, how can anyone say that dissent is being crushed? What kind of poor excuse for an authoritarian society are we building in which a Glenn Greenwald, proud enemy of conformity and government oppression, can freely promote this book in all media and sell thousands of copies at airport bookstores surrounded by Homeland Security officers?
格林沃尔德似乎没有意识到他收集的每一项表明人们同意他观点的证据，实际上削弱了他认为“当局”不能容忍任何异议的观点。没人阻止人们批评政府，也没人以任何方式阻止他们支持格林沃尔德。没人阻止这个国家的龙头报纸设立一个定期专栏，表达对公司或政府权威的不同意见。如果现在大多数公民同意格林沃尔德的观点，认为在这个国家异见正在被压制，而且对上门或打电话自称民意调查者的陌生人坦率说出自己的观点，那谁还能说异见在被压制呢？格伦·格林沃尔德以对抗顺从、政府压迫为荣，他可以自由地在任何媒体上宣传这本书，它在机场书店卖了上万本，而书店周围满是国土安全部的人——就这样还说我们正在构建的是独裁社会，那得多牵强附会？
Through all the bombast, Greenwald makes no serious effort to defend as a matter of law the leaking of official secrets to reporters. He merely asserts that “there are both formal and unwritten legal protections offered to journalists that are unavailable to anyone else. While it is considered generally legitimate for a journalist to publish government secrets, for example, that’s not the case for someone acting in any other capacity.”
在豪言壮语中，格林沃尔德并没有严肃地从法律的角度为向记者泄露政府机密进行辩护。他只是宣称“记者享有其他人没有的正式的和不成文的法律保护。比如，人们通常认为记者公布政府机密是合法的，但是对于以其他身份进行这一行为的人来说情况就不同了”。
Here at last, I thought, is something Greenwald and I can agree on. The Constitution is for everyone. There shouldn’t be a special class of people called “journalists” with privileges like publishing secret government documents.
终于，我觉得有件事我和格林沃尔德是可以达成一致的：宪法面向所有人。不应该存在一个被称为“记者”的特殊群体，拥有公布政府机密文件的特权。
But no. Greenwald’s only problem with the idea of a journalist’s privilege is that some people don’t recognize that he’s a journalist. He is right that he is just as entitled to this honor as Bob Woodward. But so is everyone else. Especially in the age of blogs, it is impossible to distinguish between a professional journalist and anyone else who wants to publish his or her thoughts. And that’s a good thing.
但实际情况并非如此。格林沃尔德对于记者特权的唯一问题是，有些人并不认为他是记者。他认为自己和鲍勃·伍德沃德（Bob Woodward，美国著名记者——译注）一样拥有特权，他这么想没错。但是其他人也拥有这个特权。特别是在博客时代，你不可能把职业记者与其他任何想发表自己想法的人区分开。这是好事。
The Snowden leaks were important — a legitimate scoop — and we might never have known about the N.S.A.'s lawbreaking if it hadn’t been for them. Most leaks from large bureaucracies are “good” leaks: no danger to national security, no harm to innocent people, information the public ought to have.
斯诺登泄露的机密很重要——这是一个合法的独家报道——如果不是因为它们，我们可能永远也不知道国家安全局的违法行为。大多数从大型官僚机构泄露的机密都是“有益的”：对国家安全没有危害，对无辜的人没有危害，提供的是公众应该知道的信息。
The trouble is this: Greenwald says that Snowden told him to “use your journalistic judgment to only publish those documents that the public should see and that can be revealed without harm to any innocent people.” Once again, this testimony proves the opposite of what Greenwald and Snowden seem to think. Snowden may be willing to trust Greenwald to make this judgment correctly — but are you? And even if you do trust Greenwald’s judgment, which on the evidence might be unwise, how can we be sure the next leaker will be so scrupulous?
问题是，格林沃尔德说斯诺登让他“用自己的新闻判断力只发表那些公众应该看到的、不会伤及无辜的文件”。这又是格林沃尔德和斯诺登所相信的东西的反证。斯诺登可能愿意相信格林沃尔德能做出正确的判断——但是你愿意吗？即使你的确信任格林沃尔德的判断——事实证明这可能是不明智的——我们怎么能确信下一个泄密者也会如此谨慎呢？
The question is who decides. It seems clear, at least to me, that the private companies that own newspapers, and their employees, should not have the final say over the release of government secrets, and a free pass to make them public with no legal consequences. In a democracy (which, pace Greenwald, we still are), that decision must ultimately be made by the government. No doubt the government will usually be overprotective of its secrets, and so the process of decision-making — whatever it turns out to be — should openly tilt in favor of publication with minimal delay. But ultimately you can’t square this circle. Someone gets to decide, and that someone cannot be Glenn Greenwald.
问题是谁来决定。至少在我看来，比较清楚的是，拥有报纸的私人公司和他们的员工不应该拥有发布政府机密的决定权，也不具有公布机密而不负法律责任的免责权。在民主社会里（对不起，格林沃尔德，我们还是民主社会），这个决定应该最终由政府做出。毋庸置疑，政府通常会对自己的机密过于保护，所以决策过程——不管结果如何——应该公开地向发表倾斜，并尽量减少拖延。但是最终你解决不了这个问题。总得有人做决定，而这个做决定的人不能是格伦·格林沃尔德。
Greenwald’s notion of what constitutes suppression of dissent by the established media is an invitation to appear on “Meet the Press.” On the show, he is shocked to be asked by the host David Gregory, “To the extent that you have aided and abetted Snowden, . . . why shouldn’t you, Mr. Greenwald, be charged with a crime?” Greenwald was so stunned that “it took a minute to process that he had actually asked” such a patently outrageous question.
格林沃尔德所持权威媒体对异见人士存在压迫的看法让他登上了《与媒体见面》(Meet the Press)节目。在节目中，主持人大卫·格雷戈里(David Gregory)问道：“鉴于你协助斯诺登犯罪的程度……格林沃尔德先生，你为什么不应该被指控犯罪呢？”这个问题令格林沃尔德目瞪口呆，“花了一分钟时间才反应过来他实际上问了”一个显然很粗暴的问题。
And what was so outrageous? Well, for starters, Greenwald says, the “to the extent” formulation could be used to justify any baseless insinuation, like “To the extent that Mr. Gregory has murdered his neighbors. . . .” But Greenwald does not deny that he has “aided and abetted Snowden.” So this particular question was not baseless. Furthermore, it was a question, not an assertion — a perfectly reasonable question that many people were asking, and Gregory was giving Greenwald a chance to answer it: If the leaker can go to prison, why should the leakee be exempt? But Greenwald seems to feel he is beyond having to defend himself. Even asking the question, he said, amounts to “an extraordinary assertion” that “journalists could and should be prosecuted for doing journalism.”
它的粗暴之处在哪里呢？呃，首先，格林沃尔德说，“鉴于……的程度”这种说法可以被用来为任何无根据的影射辩护，比如“鉴于格雷戈里谋杀邻居的程度……”。但是格林沃尔德没有否认他“帮助和协助过斯诺登”。所以这个问题并不是没有根据。而且，它是个问题，不是论断——是很多人想问的一个十分合理的问题，格雷戈里给了格林沃尔德一个机会来回答：如果泄密者可能要入狱，那秘密的接收者为什么就该免责呢？但是格林沃尔德似乎觉得自己不需要辩护。他说，提出这个问题就是“荒唐地认为”“记者能够或者说应该为进行新闻工作而被起诉”。