RIO DE JANEIRO — A young American lawyer comes to Brazil in 2005, falls in love, finds that his gay relationship confers greater legal rights than back home, starts a blog called Unclaimed Territory focusing on illegal warrantless eavesdropping by the U.S. National Security Agency, takes a place in the hills of Rio with a bunch of rescue dogs, denounces the cozy compromises of “establishment journalists,” gets hired to write a column by Britain’s Guardian newspaper, is sought out by the N.S.A. whistleblower Edward J. Snowden, becomes the main chronicler of Snowden’s revelations of global American surveillance, is lionized for work that prompts a far-reaching debate on security and freedom, files repeated thunderbolts from his leafy Brazilian perch, and ends up in just eight years as perhaps the most famous journalist of his generation.
里约热内卢——一名年轻的美国律师2005年来到巴西，坠入爱河，发现自己的同性恋关系在这里受到的法律保护比祖国多，开了一个“无主领土”(Unclaimed Territory)的博客，关注美国国家安全局（U.S. National Security Agency，简称：NSA）的无授权非法窃听行为，和一群搜救犬在里约的群山之间找到一处栖身之所，谴责“体制内的记者”悠然自得的妥协态度，受英国《卫报》(Guardian)聘请撰写专栏，被NSA的泄密者爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)选中，成为斯诺登泄露美国全球监听项目的主要记录者，由于所做工作引发了一场有关安全和自由的深远讨论而成为名人，在巴西树木茂盛的居所里屡屡发表轰动性文章，仅八年时间就已经几乎成为他这一代人中最知名的记者。
These things happen. At least they happen in the empowering digital age, and they happen to Glenn Greenwald.
这些事情都是有可能发生的。至少在让人无所不能的数字时代会发生，而在格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)身上的确发生了。
With his gray shirt, black backpack, regular features and medium build, he merges into the Rio crowd, the ordinary man. Over a Thai lunch, he tells me he is sleeping five hours a night, running on adrenalin. So what does he do to relax? “Roll around in the mud with my 10 dogs.”
他身穿灰色衬衫，背黑色背包，外貌普通，身材中等，在里约的人群中，与平常人无异。在一次泰式午餐上，他告诉我，他每天晚上只睡五个小时，工作十分狂热。那么，他做些什么事来放松呢？“和我养的10只狗在泥里打滚。”
Unwinding is hard. The five months since he met Snowden in Hong Kong have been relentless; they talk almost every day. He lives in limbo. “I feel like if I went back to the United States there is a more than trivial chance I would be arrested,” he says. “Not one of 20 lawyers I have spoken to has said, ‘Oh, you are being paranoid, of course they would never think of arresting you.”’
放松是很艰难的事。在香港见到斯诺登后的五个月里，他从未松懈；他们几乎每天都要交谈。他的生活充满不确定性。“我感觉如果我回到美国，我被逮捕的可能性很大，”他说，“和我交谈过的20名律师中，没有一个人说，‘噢，你想太多了，他们当然想都没想过要抓你。’”
Would Greenwald enjoy First Amendment protection after publishing top-secret information? The record of the Obama administration is ominous. He says his lawyers are unable to get clarification. His mother in Florida asks: “What if I am on my deathbed and cannot see you?”
在发表了有关最高机密的信息之后，格林沃尔德还能受到宪法第一修正案的保护吗？从奥巴马政府以往的做法看，情况不妙。他说他的律师们无法就此事得到一个明确答复。他那位住在佛罗里达州的母亲问：“要是我临终前还是见不到你可怎么办？”
Greenwald lives with a sense of exile but is pesky in his determination not to relent. He has been embraced as a hero by Brazil after revealing U.S. spying on President Dilma Rousseff (who postponed a planned state visit to Washington) but has resisted one request to hand over documents and is determined, here as elsewhere, to keep his distance from power.
格林沃尔德的生活有一点流亡的感觉，但是他绝不屈服的决心给他惹了不少麻烦。在披露了美国对巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)——罗塞夫推迟了原计划对华盛顿的国事访问——从事间谍活动之后，他在巴西已经被视作英雄，但是他拒绝了交出文件的要求，并且下定决心，无论是在这里还是在其他地方，他要与权力保持距离。
He is on a double mission: to push back in the name of freedom against the post-9/11 “surveillance state” with its dragnet data trawling, and to reinvigorate journalism through “an aggressive and adversarial position to political and corporate power,” an undertaking he will pursue through a new online publication backed with $250 million from the eBay billionaire Pierre Omidyar, the same amount Jeff Bezos of Amazon paid for The Washington Post (a sobering reflection on the standing of legacy newspapers today.)
他有两个任务：以自由的名义抗击“后9·11时代”的“监控政府”及其全面的数据收集，另外，通过“一种激进的、与政治和企业势力相对抗的立场”复兴新闻精神。他将通过一个新的在线出版物来完成这一事业，这个出版物得到eBay创始人、亿万富翁皮埃尔·奥米迪亚(Pierre Omidyar)的2.5亿美元支持。这与亚马逊(Amazon)的杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)买《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)花的钱一样（从中反映出的老牌报纸如今的地位是发人深省的。）
On the first of these fronts, he says he is only halfway through the reporting of Snowden’s documents “with a lot of huge revelations to come.” On the second, explored in a recent exchange with my colleague Bill Keller that will be taught in journalism schools, he has already made about 10 hires. (He and Omidyar have never met, which must be some sort of first for such a venture.)
就第一个任务而言，他说他报道斯诺登文件的工作才进行了一半，还会曝光大量信息。关于第二个，最近在与同事比尔·凯勒(Bill Keller)进行的一次将会成为新闻学院教学内容的交流中，我得知他已经雇了大约10个人。（他和奥米迪亚从来没有见过面，这样的投资在某种程度上想必是史无前例的。）
“Our style will be to encourage and empower combative journalism that can be a real force against powerful people,” he says. “We want our journalists to follow their passion.”
他说，“我们的风格将是鼓励和支持好斗的新闻报道，这种新闻能够成为对抗强权的真正力量。我们希望我们的记者是循着内心的热情行事的。”
He continued: “The reason why journalism is important, why it is protected in the Constitution, is to be one of the institutional checks on abuse of power, and for that you have to keep those in power at arm’s length, hold them accountable.”
他接着说，“新闻为什么重要，为什么在宪法中受到保护，因为它是对滥用权力制度的制衡之一，因此，你必须和当权者保持距离，让他们对自己的所作所为负责。”
For Greenwald, American journalism has been defanged by the “patriotism compulsion” after 9/11 and by the culture of big media corporations. He alludes to David Halberstam’s speech at Columbia University in 2005: “Never, never, never, let them intimidate you. People are always going to try in all kinds of ways. Sheriffs, generals, presidents of universities, presidents of countries, secretaries of defense. Don’t let them.”
在格林沃尔德看来，美国的新闻业已经被9·11之后的“爱国主义冲动”和大型媒体集团的文化拔掉了牙齿。他提到了大卫·哈伯斯塔姆(David Halberstam)2005年在哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的演讲：永远、永远、永远不要让他们吓住你。这些人会以各种方式来吓你。县治安官、将军、大学校长、国家领袖，国防部长。别让他们得逞。”
Of course, this admonition is sacred to plenty of old-school journalists. Greenwald overstates the conformity of mainstream papers, whose investigative journalism is often vigorous and fearless. But he is right that journalism got engulfed, with grave consequences, in America’s great post-9/11 disorientation. And there is no question journalism will benefit from having the personal, open-with-its-bias reporting Greenwald proposes alongside the impartiality-seeking traditional media. “Biased and balanced” — the Andrew Sullivan blog formula — is an important component of the new media landscape. Each form can spur the other, keep it honest.
当然，这些告诫对于许多老派记者来说是神圣的。格林沃尔德夸大了主流报纸的屈从程度，主流报纸的调查记者通常是充满斗志、无所畏惧的。但是有一点他说对了，在9·11之后的美国大迷茫中，新闻正在被吞没，而且产生了严重的后果。毫无疑问，在寻求公正的传统媒体之外，格林沃尔德提出的这种个人化的、对自己的偏见直言不讳的报道，无疑会让新闻报道受益。“有偏见的和平衡的”——安德鲁·沙利文(Andrew Sullivan)的博客准则——是新媒体格局的一个重要的组成部分。每种形式都能鞭策另外一种形式，使其讲真话。
American society will also benefit from Greenwald’s ongoing revelations about out-of-control surveillance. He has testified before the Brazilian Senate, and should be allowed to testify before the U.S. Senate. He says, “I am definitely going back, I refuse to be exiled for a lie.”
格林沃尔德持续揭露疯狂的监控项目也会让美国社会受益。他已经出席了巴西参议院的听证会，也应该被允许出席美国参议院的听证会。他说，“我一定会回国。我拒绝因为一个谎言而流亡。”
He deserves assurance that he can return to the United States without facing arrest.
他理应得到可以返回美国且不被逮捕的保证。