Thanksgiving is little more than a month away. For some people, that’s an alarming thought. What to serve besides the turkey, and where will everyone sit? And what if the chairs don’t match?
感恩节只剩下一个多月了（本文最初发表于2014年10月22日——编注）。对于有些人来说，这给他们敲响了警钟：除了火鸡之外，还可以上什么菜？客人该坐哪儿？要是椅子不配套怎么办？
That last thing, at least, you can stop worrying about.
至少，最后一个问题你就不用担心了。
“The idea of going into a furniture or antiques store and buying a table and matching chairs is over,” said Matthew Carter, an interior designer in Lexington, Ky., whose clients often have large homes (sometimes several of them) with multiple eating areas and, therefore, many dining chairs.
“去家具店或古董店里买一张桌子和配套的椅子，这样的观念已经过时了。”肯塔基州列克星敦的室内设计师马修·卡特(Matthew Carter)表示。他的客户往往拥有大房子（有时候还有好几套），屋子里设计了好几处用餐区，因此也就配备了许多餐椅。
Even when he is working with a client who has plenty of space, and lots of money to furnish it, he said, “People are looking for more of a mix, and we are always trying to combine styles.”
即使跟他打交道的客户房子都很大，也有很多钱来装修，但是他说，“人们现在更多的是在寻求一种混搭风，我们总是在尝试将多种风格融合起来。”
More important than whether your chairs match, he said, is how well they function around the table: How soft is the seat, and how high are the arms, if you’re using armchairs?
他表示，相比于椅子是否配套的问题，更重要的是，摆在桌子周围的椅子能够在多大程度上充分发挥功能：坐上去有多软？如果你用的是扶手椅，那么椅子的扶手有多高？
“The arms need to at least partially slide under the table,” he said. “Otherwise, you can’t pull up close enough.”
“扶手至少要比桌子稍矮一点，”他说，“要不然，你都没有办法坐得很近。”
As for aesthetics, Mr. Carter, 40, is fond of a range of styles, from English antiques (or reproductions) to more modern chairs. At a favorite Lexington source, Fable & Flame, he found an example of the latter: bentwood chairs at a surprisingly good price ($149).
至于美学方面，现年40岁的卡特喜欢多种多样的风格，从英式古董（或复制品）到较为现代的椅子。在他常去的一家列克星敦本地家居店——Fable & Flame内，他找到一件属于后一种风格的作品：弯木椅，价格实惠得出人意料（149美元[约合人民币911元]）。
“It’s such a classic style that they’ve relaxed with that grayed-down driftwood-y finish,” he said. “I think it’s perfect for a small breakfast room or kitchen.”
“它的风格太经典了，采用了灰色的底色，表面做成漂流木的效果，看上去让人很放松，”他说，“我觉得把它放在一间小的早餐室或厨房里再合适不过了。”
Online, Mr. Carter liked the Wyndham chair at Jamb Limited, a London company he called “experts at reproductions.” He was enamored of the deep tufting and nailhead trim, but a reporter wondered what sort of table could possibly complement such a heavy-looking chair.
卡特在网上看中的一款椅子，是Jamb Limited出品的温德姆椅(Wyndham)。Jamb Limited是一家伦敦公司，卡特称这家公司为“复制品专家”。让他为之着迷的是深陷在沙发垫里的钉扣和泡钉装饰；但作为一名记者我担心，这张椅子看起来如此笨重，什么样的桌子才适合搭配它。
“You can’t go wrong surrounding a big Georgian dining table with these chairs,” he said.
“你在一张乔治风格的大餐桌周围摆上一圈这样的椅子，就不会错了。”卡特说。
His personal favorite was the Frances armchair from Liz O’Brien. “I love the limed wood finish,” he said. “And I love the buttons on the seat and back.”
他个人最喜欢的是家居品牌丽兹·奥布莱恩(Liz O’Brien)推出的弗朗西斯(Frances)扶手椅。“我喜欢的是，它表面做出了椴木效果，”他说，“而且我喜欢坐垫和靠背上的钉扣。”
Covered in “a gorgeous velvet,” he added, the chair would “warm up a more traditional wooden dining table.”
他补充说，这张椅子表面包着“华贵的天鹅绒”，能够“为一张较为传统的木质餐桌增添几分热情。”
As a self-professed fan of “everything raffia, sisal or sea grass,” he was also drawn to the Joshua Tree dining chair from Ralph Lauren Home, a tub-style piece big enough to accommodate even the most enthusiastic eater.
卡特宣称，“只要是酒椰树纤维、西沙尔麻或海草材质”的家具，他都喜欢。他还看中了拉夫·劳伦家居(Ralph Lauren Home)推出的约书亚树(Joshua Tree)餐椅。这是一件浴盆风格的作品，规格够大，就连最狂热的吃货也坐得下。