When “60 Minutes,” the CBS News show, secured an exclusive interview with a member of the Navy SEAL team that killed Osama bin Laden, one of the first things it did was search for a model maker who could replicate the compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.
当哥伦比亚广播公司(CBS)的“新闻60分”节目确定，要对击毙奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的一名海豹特遣队(Navy seal)成员进行独家专访的时候，该节目组做的第一件事，就是寻找一位能够复制巴基斯坦阿伯塔巴德市(Abbottabad)那个基地的制模师。
“I said, ‘We have to do a model,’ since to my mind, I couldn’t understand the story without it,” said Henry Schuster, a producer at “60 Minutes.” “A model is the original 3-D, it allows you to see everything at scale, and spatially, you can move from place to place and get a sense of progression that isn’t possible with fancy graphics.”
“我说，‘我们得做个模型，’因为在我看来，如果没有这个模型，我就无法理解这个故事，”新闻60分的制做人亨利·舒斯特尔(Henry Schuster)说，“模型就是最原始的三维示意图，让你可以成比例地看到各个细节；而且在空间上，你可以不断变换方位，从而得到一种延展感，这是再精良的图表也做不到的事。”
To find someone who could replicate Bin Laden’s home and its surroundings in miniature, the producers called various experts for recommendations, including Robert A. M. Stern, the architect and dean of the Yale School of Architecture. At the top of everyone’s list was Richard Tenguerian, 57, a model maker who has spent the past three decades working for some of the world’s most famous architects from his basement workshop on Lafayette Street near Astor Place.
为了找到某个能把本·拉登基地及其周边环境缩小还原的人，这位制作人给各类专家打了几通电话寻求推荐，其中包括耶鲁大学建筑学院的系主任兼建筑设计师罗伯特·A·M·斯特恩(Robert A. M. Stern)。在所有人开列的名单中，位居前列的是57岁的模型制作师理查德·腾格里安(Richard Tenguerian)。他在过去三十年来，一直在亚斯特坊广场(Astor Place)附近拉菲尔街(lafayette Street)的地下工作室中，制作一些世界知名建筑的模型。
One of a handful of people in New York who practice the craft of making building models, Mr. Tenguerian, who was born in Aleppo, Syria, and raised in Beirut, Lebanon, has worked for the likes of Richard Meier, Philip Johnson and Renzo Piano. His replica of Bin Laden’s compound is now on display at the Navy SEAL Museum in Fort Pierce, Fla., while his model of the new Yankee Stadium was featured in the groundbreaking with then-Governor George E. Pataki and is part of a permanent exhibit at the New York Yankees museum.
腾格里安是纽约市十多位从事建筑模型制作的手艺人之一，出生于叙利亚的阿勒波市(Aleppo，Syria)，成长于黎巴嫩的贝鲁特(Beirut，Lebanon)，曾经为理查德·迈耶(Richard Meier)、菲利普·约翰逊(Philip Johnson)和伦佐·皮亚诺(Renzo Piano)等人工作过。他制作的本·拉登基地模型，现陈列于弗罗里达州皮尔斯堡(Fort Pierce,Fla.)的海豹特遣队博物馆(Navy SEAL Museum)内；而他的新扬基体育场(Yankee Stadium)模型，曾被当时的州长乔治·E·帕塔基(George E. Pataki)称为首屈一指的创新作品，并且成为了纽约扬基博物馆的一件永久展品。
“He is a true artist,” said Kenneth Drucker, director of design for the New York office of the architectural firm HOK, who has worked with Mr. Tenguerian for the past quarter century. “We have relationships with multiple model shops, but he is my model maker of choice. We have an unspoken language, we have worked together so long, he knows what level of abstraction I need — and he has never missed a deadline for me, ever.”
“他是一位真正的艺术家，”HOK建筑公司纽约办公室的设计总监肯尼斯·德鲁克(Kenneth Drucker)说，他曾与腾格里安合作过25年，“我们与很多模型店都有业务联系，但他是我的首选制模师。我俩有一种默契，因为我们已经合作了那么长时间，他知道我需要把建筑缩小到什么规模——而且，他从没耽误过我的交货期，从来没有。”
When one thinks of models, it is typically of the dollhouse or train set variety. And Mr. Tenguerian’s subterranean studio on Lafayette Street does have a toy store feel: he keeps a pet snake in a tank near his desk and two birds tweet contentedly in a cage near the elevator. On a recent Saturday, a not unusual workday when a deadline must be met, employees were toiling away, their heads bowed over draft tables, painstakingly applying leaves to miniature trees like a reality-television version of Santa’s elves.
当人们想起模型的时候，通常会想到玩偶之家或各种不同的火车玩具。而腾格里安位于拉斐尔街的地下工作室，也的确有一种玩具商店的感觉：他养了一条宠物蛇，放在书桌附近的水槽里；还有两只小鸟一直在电梯旁的笼子里叽叽喳喳。上个星期六，由于交货期在即，也就没有非工作日这么一说了。员工们挥汗如雨，埋头于工作台前，煞费苦心地把叶子贴在一些缩小的树木上，就像真人版的圣诞精灵一样。
But their work is not child’s play. Architectural models can cost upward of $100,000, and sometimes far more. Architects use models to realize and improve upon their designs; developers rely on them during presentations, hoping the models will convince the relevant authorities to approve their plans. For brokers, models have become a key marketing tool, used to persuade buyers to shell out millions of dollars for homes that have yet to be built.
但是他们的工作并不是孩子的娱乐。那些建筑模型的费用可能在10万美元（约合人民币61万元）以上，有时候还更多。建筑师们使用这些模型来实现并改进他们的设计；开发商们则在做项目展示的时候，需要依赖这些模型，以期能让相关部门批准他们的计划。对于地产经纪人来说，这些模型已经成了重要的市场营销工具，用来说服买家掏出数百万美元，买下还在兴建当中的房屋。
“There is nothing better than a model to really understand how a building looks,” said the architect Morris Adjmi, who has worked with Mr. Tenguerian on several projects. “His models have a warmth about them. Even though they use a lot of automated processes, there is this handmade quality that gives them a soul and life.”
“没有什么能比一个模型更能让人真正理解一栋建筑是什么样子的了，”建筑设计师莫里斯·阿迪米(Morris Adjmi)说，他曾与腾格里安合作过几个项目，“他的模型有一种亲和力。即使他们用了大量的自动化程序，也还是有这种能赋予模型灵魂和生命的手工品质。”
Mr. Tenguerian comes from a long line of artists. His family, which is of Armenian descent, can trace its origins to the 1700s, and includes artists, diplomats, clergy and translators. His parents, who survived the Armenian genocide before fleeing to Syria, worked in creative fields. His father, Antranig, was a sculptor and his mother, Mary, a clothing designer for Chanel when the design house had an outpost there.
腾格里安的艺术天分，源自一脉相承。他的家族是亚美尼亚人的后裔，源头可以追溯到十八世纪，家族中有艺术家、外交家、牧师和翻译。他的父母从亚美尼亚种族大屠杀中幸存下来，逃到了叙利亚，在创意产业工作。他的父亲安特拉尼克(Antranig)是一位雕塑家，而他的母亲玛丽(Mary)是香奈儿(Chanel)的一位服装设计师，当时这家设计公司在那里有一个前哨。
“I grew up in a creative environment,” Mr. Tenguerian said. “We used to make all of our own toys, sketching, drawing, playing outdoors.”
“我在一种具有创造力的环境中长大，”腾格里安说，“我们曾经自己动手做所有的玩具，经常画素描、写生，在户外玩耍。”
At age 14, Mr. Tenguerian worked as a summer intern for Hagop Atechian, a Lebanese architect, for whom he built his first model. “Every summer after that, they would call me to make more models for them,” Mr. Tenguerian said. “When you are that age, you think that everyone can do what you do. It isn’t until you get feedback or a reward that all of a sudden it’s a turning point. Still, I never thought about being a model maker, I wanted to become an architect.”
14岁那年，腾格里安在黎巴嫩一家设计公司Hagop Atechian做暑期实习生，他为这家公司做了他的第一个模型。“那次以后，每年夏天，他们都会找我去给他们做更多的模型，”腾格里安说，“在那样的年纪，你会觉得你所做的事情每个人都能做到，直到你得到了反馈或奖励，才会突然出现转折。尽管如此，我从未想过自己会成为一名制模师，我曾想成为一名建筑设计师。”
In 1975, when Mr. Tenguerian was 18, the civil war in Lebanon broke out. He had been accepted to the American University of Beirut, but in the wake of the war, chose instead to leave for the United States. Mr. Tenguerian arrived here alone, with plans to live with an aunt in Woodside, Queens. “I came with just $25 in my pocket — which I used for the cab ride from J.F.K. to my aunt’s house.”
1975年，腾格里安18岁，黎巴嫩爆发了内战。他原本已被贝鲁特美国大学(American University of Beirut)录取，但由于战争在即，他不得不选择去了美国。腾格里安只身来到了这里，打算和一位住在皇后区(Queens)伍德赛德(Woodside)的姨妈一起生活。“我口袋里揣着25美元（约合人民币153元）就来了——这笔钱我用来乘出租车，从肯尼迪国际机场(J.F.K.)到了我姨妈的家。”
In New York, Mr. Tenguerian worked for a jeweler, and eventually, found a job at AWAD Architectural Models. He saved up enough money to attend Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, working during the day and attending classes in the evening. He graduated in 1984 with a degree in architecture.
在纽约，腾格里安先为一家珠宝商打工，然后终于在AWAD建筑模型公司(AWAD Architectural Models)找到了一份工作。他攒了足够的钱，进入了布鲁克林区的普瑞特艺术学院(Pratt Institute)，白天工作，夜间上课。1984年，他获得了建筑专业的学位，顺利毕业。
“After school I was confused,” he said. “Architects wanted to hire me, but they were going to give me jobs making models.” Ultimately, Mr. Tenguerian embraced the calling. “I decided to stay being a model maker because the demand was so high. I thought, ‘the architectural community wants me to stay a model maker so I can contribute that way to the field.’ ” In 1988, he opened his own company.
“离开学校之后，我迷茫了，”他说，“虽然有建筑师想聘请我，但他们给我的是制作模型的工作。”最终，腾格里安选择了随遇而安，“我决定留下来，成为一名模型制作师，因为这一行业的市场需求十分旺盛。我想，‘既然建筑行业想让我成为一名模型制作师，那我就用这种方式为这个领域做出贡献吧。’”1988年，他开了自己的公司。