IT was the era of Prohibition. The crime bosses had convened an emergency summit in Atlantic City. Violent bootleg wars in Chicago and New York were threatening their businesses.
这是禁酒的时代。犯罪头目在大西洋城召开了一次紧急峰会。芝加哥和纽约的私酒战争愈演愈烈，正在威胁他们的生意。
“Gentlemen, take down Al Capone? Have you all lost your minds?” asked an exasperated Bugsy Siegel. “We need to let whatever’s happening in Chicago happen in Chicago, and work on stabilizing New York and making sure that our supply lines are also stable.”
“先生们，打压艾尔·卡彭(Al Capone)的嚣张气焰？你们是不是都疯了？”巴格西·西格尔(Bugsy Siegel)愤怒地质问道，“我们需要让芝加哥正在发生的事情不要蔓延开来，必须把纽约稳定住，也一定要确保我们的补给线不出什么岔子。”
In a shiny top hat and period dress, Jocelyn Perry, a University of Pennsylvania senior, tapped her gavel to let Bugsy know his speaking time had elapsed before recognizing the gambling kingpin Meyer Lanksy. The rest of the students-cum-gangsters sneered and ridiculed one another, jostling for supremacy over America’s illicit trade. Meanwhile, in nearby meeting rooms, 1,200 students in other small “committees” recreated scenes from the Civil War, a Pakistani cabinet meeting and the cult TV series “The Wire.”
乔斯林·佩里(Jocelyn Perry)敲了敲她的小木槌，提醒巴格西他的发言时间已经过了。这位头戴一顶闪亮的大礼帽，身穿一套当时式样礼服的宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)大四学生，随后示意赌场大亨迈耶·兰柯西(Meyer Lanksy)开始发言。由学生饰演的其他匪徒带着一脸冷笑，互相讥讽着，谁都不愿意让美国非法贸易的主宰权旁落于他人之手。与此同时，在临近的会议室，1200名学生正在另一些小“委员会”中，重现南北战争、巴基斯坦内阁会议和热门剧集《火线》(The Wire)的场景。
This is not F.D.R.’s Model United Nations, that rigid simulation of General Assembly protocol and decorum. Conferences like this one in Philadelphia, hosted by the club at Penn, have turned MUN, as it’s called, into a full-fledged sport, with all the competitiveness and rowdiness that suggests. Today, there are official sponsors, a ranking of schools and, much to the chagrin of traditionalists, non-U.N. role play.
这并非罗斯福总统(F.D.R.)积极倡导的，以严格模拟联合国大会协定和礼仪而著称的模拟联合国活动（Model United Nations，简称MUN）。从堪称白热化的竞争和无比喧嚷的场面可以看出，类似于这场在费城举行，由宾夕法尼亚大学俱乐部主办的会议，已经把所谓的MUN转化为一项相当成熟的赛事。如今，这类会议不仅有官方赞助商，还对参赛院校进行排名。让传统主义者特别懊恼的是，参赛者扮演的角色与联合国毫无关系。
MUN’s roots are older than the United Nations itself. In 1927, Harvard invited nine colleges to a simulation of the League of Nations, nearly a decade after that body’s creation in the wake of the First World War. Today, anywhere from 100,000 to 200,000 high school and college students in this country attend Model U.N. each year, according to the United Nations Association of the United States of America.
模拟联合国活动的根源甚至比联合国本身还古老。早在1927年，哈佛大学(Harvard University)就邀请9所院校参加模拟国际联盟(League of Nations)的活动，当时距离这家机构的成立（创建于第一次世界大战之后）仅仅差不多十年时间。如今，根据美国联合国协会(United Nations Association of the United States of America)提供的信息，每年大约有10万到20万来自美国和世界各地的高中生和大学生参加模拟联合国竞赛。
In classic MUN, students represent the positions and values of assigned countries, adhering to official protocols when speaking, negotiating and drafting resolutions. Consensus is important, and the process of arriving at innovative solutions to global problems the goal. That is still the prevailing model. But a new breed of Model U.N., popular among student-run clubs at elite universities, has a distinctly different philosophy. Their “crisis committees” focus on a single historical event (the 1929 Atlantic City conference of crime bosses, for example) and fantasy recreations (“Star Wars,” “Harry Potter”). Participants battle it out in four-day conferences in hopes of winning a coveted gavel, awarded to the strongest member on each committee, and schools with the most “best delegates” top the new rankings.
在经典的模拟联合国活动中，学生代表指定国家的立场和价值观，无论是发言、谈判，还是起草决议，他们均需恪守官方协定。获得共识至关重要，为全球问题找出富于创新性的解决方案是最终目标。这仍然是主流模式。但一种盛行于精英大学学生俱乐部的新型模拟联合国活动，则秉持着一种迥然不同的理念。他们的“危机俱乐部”专注于重现单一历史事件（比如1929年于大西洋城举行的犯罪头目会议）或幻想作品，比如《星球大战》(Star Wars)和《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)。在为期4天的会议中，参加者奋勇竞争，以期成为各委员会中最厉害的成员，从而赢得一个令人垂涎的小木槌。荣获“最佳代表”奖项最多的学校，将高居新榜单之首。
Best Delegate, a MUN consulting company founded in 2010, gets the credit — or blame — for divvying up the North American playing field into two circuits for its rankings. It dubbed the student-led teams that frequent college-hosted conferences the World Division and the faculty-led teams that mostly attend organization-hosted conferences the National Division. An estimated 12,500 students attend World Division college conferences in the United States and Canada, and the number is growing. In 2010-11, there were 18 conferences hosted by some of the country’s most elite universities; in 2012-13 there were 25. Only seven simulated the actual United Nations.
一家成立于2010年，名为“最佳代表”(Best Delegate)的模拟联合国咨询公司，因其发布的榜单将北美竞技场划分为两个组别而备受赞誉——或指责。该公司把频繁出席大学主办的会议、以学生为主导的团队称为“世界组”(World Division)，把主要参加组织主办的会议、以教师为主导的团队称为“国家组”(National Division)。估计有12500名学生参加在美国和加拿大举行的“世界组”大学会议，而且这个数字还在不断增长。2010年至2011年，美国顶尖大学共主办了18场会议；2012年至2013年，这些大学共主办了25场。只有7场会议以真实的联合国为模拟对象。
Not everyone is happy with the way Model United Nations is evolving. Some veterans object to a new competitiveness fueled by the rankings. (Penn, Georgetown, the University of Chicago, Harvard and the West Point Military Academy nabbed the top spots this year.)
并非所有人都对模拟联合国目前的演变方式感到满意。一些资深参与者反对组织者发布参赛院校的名次榜单，认为这样做给这种活动平添了一丝新的竞争意味。今年，宾夕法尼亚大学、乔治城大学(Georgetown University)、芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)、哈佛大学和西点军校(West Point Military Academy)占据了这份榜单前几名位次。
“It goes against the purpose and point of Model U.N. and, for that matter, the real U.N.,” said Phill Venice, a University of Pennsylvania senior who has participated in 37 conferences. While enjoying the camaraderie and intelligent debate, he said, students are less concerned with working together to achieve common solutions than in standing out to the committee chairperson, who chooses a winner based on contribution to the proceedings.
“这种做法有违模拟联合国的目的和指向，就这一点而言，它也违背了真正的联合国精神，”宾夕法尼亚大学大四学生，已参加过37场会议的菲尔·威尼斯(Phill Venice)如是说。在他看来，虽然学生们可以获得珍贵的友情，享受充满睿智的辩论进程，但相较于通过共同努力达成一致的解决方案，他们更关心的是如何在委员会主席面前凸显自身才能，后者根据学生对相关议程的贡献，从中选择一位获胜者。
Amandla Ooko-Ambaka agreed. In Europe and Africa, where she first became involved with Model U.N., she said the focus is more on the academic element of debating. After two years on the traveling team at Yale, she became frustrated with all the politicking and petty tactics. “Not only did I have to put together a good position paper and know one or two things about my topic,” she said, “but I had to worry about someone stealing my USB stick,” where delegates often store their work.
阿曼德拉·奥科-安巴卡(Amandla Ooko-Ambaka)认同这种观点。她表示，在欧洲和非洲（在那里，她第一次参与模拟联合国），模拟联合国侧重于辩论的学术内涵。在追随耶鲁大学(Yale University)代表队征战了两年之后，她对各种政治手腕和小把戏感到失望。安巴卡说，“我不仅必须整理一份优质的立场文件，对我的主题了解一二，还不得不担心会不会有人偷走我的闪存盘。”代表们经常用闪存盘存储各自的文档。
Parvathy Murukurthy, a senior at the University of Chicago and member of the college circuit’s first all-star team, isn’t pointing fingers but says that “entire sections of my resolution have been duplicated into other people’s resolution.” Delegates say backstabbing is less common in crisis committees because they’re smaller (about 20 people while a General Assembly re-creation might have 300), with more chance to distinguish oneself.
芝加哥大学大四学生、大学组首支全明星球队成员帕尔瓦蒂·穆儒库尔西(Parvathy Murukurthy)并没有指责哪个人，但她说：“我打算提交的决议案都被完完整整地复制到其他人的决议中去了。”一些代表表示，在危机委员会中，暗箭伤人这种事情不太常见，因为委员人数相对较少（大约20人左右，而再现一个联合国大会可能需要300人），崭露头角的机会更大一些。
Underscoring just how extreme the competition has become, many students refer to a phenomenon known as the “golden gavel,” in which a delegate sleeps with the chairperson in the hopes of winning. Two students told me they are convinced they lost an award this way. Others I spoke with had only heard rumors — but, they added quickly, not involving regular competitors.
为了彰显竞争已变得多么惨烈，许多学生都提到了一种被称为“金槌”的现象：一位代表为了获胜，竟然陪委员会主席睡觉。两名学生告诉我，他们确信自己就是这样与一个奖项擦肩而过的。接受我采访的其他人只是听说过坊间的谣言——但他们立即补充说，这件风流韵事与正式竞争者无关。
One thing is clear. Chairpersons, who are appointed by their clubs, are all-powerful. They run their committee, and often research and write up each character’s portfolio of powers. “Essentially, the chair decides what’s what,” Mr. Venice said, “and the chair decides what’s what without really any guidance. I can’t think of another sport where that would fly, to be honest.”
有一件事是明确的。大学俱乐部任命的主席，拥有无上权力。他们是各自委员会的运作者，经常研究和发布每位角色的权力安排。“从本质上讲，主席决定什么是什么，”威尼斯说，“在没有任何指引的情况下，主席就决定了一切。说老实话，我真的想不出还有哪一种赛事是这样搞的。”
While conferences organized by nonprofit organizations benefit from a board made up of professors and former United Nations employees and diplomats, World Division conferences are run by undergraduates who control the logistics, financing and preparations. Penn’s last conference, sponsored in part by Lufthansa, had 300 students working committees.
非营利机构组织的会议往往受益于一个由教授、前联合国雇员和外交官组成的董事会，而“世界组”会议则是由本科生负责运营，他们掌控着物流、融资和其他准备工作。宾夕法尼亚大学主办的上届会议，拥有一个300名学生组成的工作委员会，德国汉莎航空公司(Lufthansa)赞助了部分经费。
“It’s a point of pride for a lot of American conferences that it’s all student-run,” said Shunsuke Hirose, Columbia’s head delegate.
“让很多美国会议颇为骄傲的是，整个会议流程全是由学生运作的，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)代表团团长广濑俊介(Shunsuke Hirose)说。
IN the corner of a small meeting room at the Philadelphia Sheraton, Rodolfo Diaz listened to the other delegates and scribbled on a legal pad, responding to their notes, which had piled up on his desk.
在费城喜来登酒店(Sheraton)一个小型会议室的角落里，鲁道夫·迪亚兹(Rodolfo Diaz)一边聆听其他代表的发言，一边翻阅他们堆积在桌子上的笔记，草草地记录着。
At 5 feet 6 inches, the bespectacled 21-year-old comes across as unintimidating, but as Harvard’s head delegate he is a force. “It’s ironic,” he told me. “People think the more forceful or aggressive you are, the easier it will be to pull yourself as the leader. Actually, it creates a lot of resentment.” His strategy for winning involves making friends, and building consensus in support of his position.
这位戴着眼镜，现年21岁的小伙子身高大约5英尺6英寸（合1.68米），看上去非常友善，但作为哈佛大学代表团的团长，他是一股不可小觑的力量。他对我说，“颇具讽刺意味的是，人们总是认为，一个人越是表现得孔武有力，咄咄逼人，他或她就越容易把自己塑造成为一位领导者。实际上，这样做往往引发众人的怨恨情绪。”他的获胜之道在于广交朋友，建立共识，以支持自己的立场。
Three days into the competition, the room reeked of body odor and stale junk food. Empty potato chip and Pop-Tarts packets littered the floor. Mr. Diaz, who was playing the role of Grand Admiral Martio Batch in a “Star Wars” crisis, tucked his grandfather’s silver dog tag behind his tie and affixed a pin given to him by the commander at West Point, where he had participated in his first college conference.
当竞争进入第三天，身体和过期垃圾食品散发的怪味已经让整个房间臭气熏天。空空如也的薯片和果酱馅饼袋散落一地。迪亚兹正在一场“星球大战”危机中扮演海军上将马铁奥·巴奇(Martio Batch)，他把祖父的狗牌银项链塞在领带后面，并戴了一枚西点军校的指挥官赠送的徽章。迪亚兹参加的第一次大学会议就是由这所军校主办的。
As Batch, he was defending the autocratic Imperial Galactic Empire. Two defectors were sitting in the corridor plotting. They had managed to assassinate Jabba the Hutt, who, in this rendition, had been running the empire. They had also taken control of the second Death Star in an attempt to establish their own empire.
他饰演的巴奇上将正在捍卫专制的银河帝国(Imperial Galactic Empire)。两位背叛者正坐在走廊密谋着什么。他们此前设计暗杀了赫特人贾巴(Jabba the Hutt)。在这次的演绎中，他们一直操纵着帝国的运行，也控制着第二死星(Death Star)，以期建立他们自己的帝国。
The remaining generals, politicians and prophets of the dark side were scrambling to preserve the status quo, under the watchful eye of Lord Vader, who periodically entered the room — menacing in a costume of black chest armor, helmet and cape, and flanked by two hooded assistants — to provide updates.
其余那些坐在暗边的将领、政客和先知们争先恐后地发言，竭力维持现状。所有这一切都是在维达勋爵(Lord Vader)警惕的目光下进行的，他间或进入房间，告诉最新的进展。维达勋爵穿一身黑色铠甲，戴着头盔，披着斗篷，两侧各站立着一位蒙面的助理，看上去一副来势汹汹的样子。
Each delegate tries to further his character’s agenda by forming alliances and outmaneuvering the others in the room. Batch’s goal was to preserve the imperial navy. “I thought the best way to do that was by being loyal to the empire, which was under control of a dictator,” Mr. Diaz said, “and when he got killed, to Darth Vader, who was second in line.” The tactic worked, and at the end of the weekend, he was named best delegate.
每位代表都在竭力推动所扮演角色的议程，不断地缔结盟友，试图以阴谋诡计战胜屋子里的其他人。巴奇上将的目标是保存帝国海军。“我认为，完成此举的最佳方式莫过于效忠一位独裁者控制的帝国，”迪亚兹说，“要是他被害，达斯·维达将是王座的第二继承人。”这一策略果然奏效，在周末结束时，他被评为最佳代表。
Mr. Diaz, who will study at Cambridge University in the fall, had become involved with MUN during high school in his native Puerto Rico. “I’m not a big sports person,” he said, “but being part of the Model U.N. was like being part of a team. It was a really good community that worked together and hung out afterward.”
迪亚兹今年秋天将前往剑桥大学(Cambridge University)学习。在他的祖国波多黎各上高中时，迪亚兹就开始参与模拟联合国会议。他说，“虽然我不是非常热衷于体育活动，但参加模拟联合国让我觉得自己是一个团队的一份子。它的确是一个非常棒的社区，大家并肩工作，然后一起出去游逛。”
Kevin Felix Chan, a co-founder of Best Delegate, describes the appeal this way: “Sports for smart people with social skills.”
“这是一项供具有社交技能的聪明人参加的赛事，”最佳代表咨询公司联合创始人凯文·菲利克斯·陈(Kevin Felix Chan)这样描述这项活动的吸引力。
MANY attribute the new MUN’s popularity to a larger societal change. Governments are no longer the only ones shaping the global order, while social-media tools provide individuals with wider platforms from which to mobilize. “The shift to crisis committees represents the growing influence of these formal and informal groups,” Mr. Chan said. “The Arab Spring movement, which was one of the top five most simulated topics last year, is a prime example of students learning from the crisis-based decision-making that takes place in the real world today.” Crisis committees enable a more nuanced understanding of history, he said. Participants can see things from the other side — say, representing the Soviets during the Cuban missile crisis.
许多人认为，这种新型的模拟联合国会议之所以大受欢迎，是因为社会本身正在发生一场大变革。政府不再是唯一一个正在塑造全球秩序的组织，社交媒体为个人提供了一个更广阔的动员平台。“向危机委员会的转变象征着这些正式和非正式群体日益增大的影响力，”陈先生说，“‘阿拉伯之春’运动(Arab Spring)是去年被模仿次数最多的五大主题之一，透过这个典型的例证可以看出，学生们正在学习发生在今天现实世界中的危机决策过程。”他还说危机委员会能够帮助他们更加细致入微地了解历史。参与者可以从另一个侧面（比如，在古巴导弹危机期间代表苏联人的立场）观察事物。
A onetime delegate for Yale, Ryan Villanueva quit his job at Goldman Sachs in 2010 to start Best Delegate with Mr. Chan, a graduate of the University of California, Los Angeles. They met while competing, and now help high schools, universities and nonprofit organizations create Model U.N. systems and travel the world live-blogging at college-run conferences.
2010年，曾经做过一次耶鲁大学代表的瑞安·维拉纽瓦(Ryan Villanueva)辞去他在高盛公司(Goldman Sachs)的优渥工作，与毕业于加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的陈先生一起创办了最佳代表咨询公司。他们相识于同场竞技，现在不仅帮助高中、大学和非营利组织创建模拟联合国体系，还时不时地赶赴世界各地参加大学主办的会议，并在其博客上直播活动实况。
Mr. Villanueva sees heated competition as only natural. “These students and teachers value a level of competition inherent to their culture of prestige and awards,” he said. “There’s a certain student at these schools who wants to be in a decision-making position. They want to handle the excitement of crisis, and, frankly, they care less about the U.N. and about broader national affairs. That’s where the ‘Harry Potter’ and ‘Star Wars’ stuff comes in.”
维拉纽瓦认为，白热化的竞争场面是再自然不过的事情。“这些学生珍视一种他们的声望和奖励文化所固有的竞争水平，”他说，“在这些院校中，一些学生想处在一个决策的位置上。他们想感受一下应对危机时那种特别令人激动的氛围。而且，坦率地说，他们不太关心联合国和更广泛的国家事务，于是就出现了诸如《哈利·波特》和《星球大战》这样的主题。”
In the traditional Model U.N., delegates can’t stray very far from their country’s official position. National Model United Nations, run by the nonprofit National Collegiate Conference Association, is the country’s largest traditional conference. Its executive director, Michael Eaton, sniffs at the World Division approach. “NMUN takes a much more intellectual attitude to Model U.N.,” he said. Many NMUN participants take Model U.N. as a for-credit course, designed to teach international relations, United Nations protocol and leadership skills. “We’re asking people to actually do research in foreign policy, not to do MUN as a caricature,” he said.
在传统的模拟联合国会议中，代表们不能过于偏离其代表国家的官方立场。由非营利组织全国大学生会议协会(National Collegiate Conference Association)运作的全国模拟联合国大会(National Model United Nations，下文简称NMUN)是美国最大的传统会议。其执行董事迈克尔·伊顿(Michael Eaton)对于“世界组”的模仿方式甚是不屑。他说，“NMUN对待模拟联合国的态度更注重其智识层面。”许多NMUN参与者将模拟联合国视为一门计算学分，旨在传授国际关系、联合国协议和领导技能的课程。“我们要求学生扎扎实实地研究外交政策，而不要把这种活动当做一场极尽夸张之能事的拙劣表演，”他说。
About rankings, Mr. Eaton added, “It’s not like basketball.” Still, NMUN is one of the few traditional conferences that anoints winners. “We give awards,” he said, “but it is really difficult to gauge an individual’s learning.” Worried about the impact of competition, the association has held a vote among NMUN faculty advisers on continuing the practice, with no consensus.
关于大学排名，伊顿补充说：“这又不是打篮球比赛。”不过，NMUN是为数不多的几个选定获胜者的传统会议之一。“我们给予奖励，但衡量一个人的学习程度确实不容易。”由于担心参与者相互竞争带来的影响，这家协会已经让NMUN的教师顾问们就是否延续这种做法进行了一次投票表决，但并未达成共识。
Arka Mallela, president of Penn’s International Affairs Association, which runs its conferences, believes the rankings have improved performance. As the circuit becomes more formalized, teams are investing more in training. “It was always competitive between schools, but having someone outside of the circuit looking at it and saying ‘Well, this school did better’ has really made people focus on winning,” Mr. Mallela said. “It’s forced a lot of the schools that are good — Georgetown, ourselves, Harvard — to really grow in terms of how we improve delegates and how we train delegates.”
宾夕法尼亚大学的会议由该校国际事务协会(International Affairs Association)负责运营。该协会主席阿尔卡·马莱拉(Arka Mallela)认为，对参赛大学进行排名已经提升了参与者的辩论水准。随着这项赛事变得更加正规，参赛队伍正在向培训环节投入更多的资源。“校际之间的竞争总是异常激烈，但如果让一位局外人在一旁观看，并且说一声，‘哦，这所学校做得更好，’那真的会让参与者把心思放在如何获胜上面，”马莱拉说，“这已经迫使许多本来就非常出色的院校（比如乔治敦大学，我们学校和哈佛大学），在提升代表技能和培训方式方面又有了长足的进步。”
Before conferences, his team reviews strategies and holds mock sessions over a weekend. The University of Chicago may have the most rigorous prep. Newbies meet about four times a week for six weeks before their first conference. “We take the competitive aspect of Model U.N. really seriously,” said Ms. Murukurthy, team vice president, who read at least three books on her assigned topic, as well as news and academic articles. “I’ve found this is extremely necessary because it gives you leverage in committee,” she said.
在会议召开前，他的团队不仅复审策略，还利用一个周末举行多场模拟活动。芝加哥大学的准备工作或许是最缜密的。在参加第一场会议前的六周内，新手们每周大约需要开四次会。“我们极其重视模拟联合国会议的竞争层面，”穆儒库尔西说。作为该校代表队的副队长，除了浏览新闻和学术文章外，她还至少阅读三本与分配话题相关的书籍。“我发现，这样做非常必要，因为它给予你在委员会制胜的武器，”她说。
AT Harvard’s conference in February — the Super Bowl of MUN, attended by some 5,000 students — the exhausted members of the Columbia team straggled into a hotel room and began an animated re-creation of the afternoon’s events. Cesar Rodriguez, a sophomore, collapsed on the bed. After relating how he had organized and then backed out of a coup in Venezuela, deceiving fellow cabinet members, he speculated on his chances of winning.
在哈佛大学2月份主办的会议上——这场大约有5000名学生参加的盛会，堪称模拟联合国的“超级碗杯”(Super Bowl)——精疲力竭的哥伦比亚大学代表队成员踉踉跄跄地回到一间酒店客房，但没过一会又开始生气勃勃地重现下午的事件。塞萨尔·罗德里格斯(Cesar Rodriguez)瘫倒在床上。这位大二学生回顾了他此前如何组织，随即又退出一场发生在委内瑞拉的政变活动，一举骗过其他内阁成员那一幕，然后据此推测他的胜算。
Delegates took swigs from a wine bottle containing a blend of vodka and cranberry juice, and every few minutes, someone would spontaneously break into song.
代表们痛饮了一瓶加有酸莓汁的伏特加酒，每隔几分钟，就有一位成员不由自主地唱起歌来。
No formal debates are conducted on the last day of the conferences, so the parties following the Saturday night Delegate Dance go late into the night in rooms across the hotel. Wild nights are nothing new to Model U.N. During Harvard’s 1980 conference, guests at Boston’s Park Plaza complained of “loudness, water fights, abuse of toilet paper, and general partying among the 1,700 delegates,” according to an article in The Harvard Crimson that year.
最后一天的会议没有进行正式辩论。所以，在星期六晚上，代表团入驻酒店客房中举行的“代表之舞”(Delegate Dance)派对一直延续到深夜。于模拟联合国而言，这样的不羁之夜绝对不是新鲜事。早在1980年的哈佛大学会议期间，波士顿公园广场酒店( Park Plaza )的客人们就对“喧嚣声，水仗，滥用卫生纸，1700名代表的大派对”等现象抱怨连连，哈佛大学校刊《哈佛深红报》(The Harvard Crimson)当年刊发的一篇文章如是写道。
Mr. Rodriguez, switching frequently to Spanish midsentence, argued with teammates about which MUN has the best parties (McGill University seemed to get a lot of the votes) and discussed details for Columbia’s own conference, in its eighth year.
就哪个模拟联合国会议的派对最棒这一问题，罗德里格斯与队友们争辩不休，他一句话说到一半时，就频繁地转变成西班牙语。最终，麦吉尔大学(McGill University)似乎获得了不少选票。这些队员们随后又开始讨论他们的自家事（已迈入第八个年头的哥伦比亚大学会议）的细节。
“MUN parties can be infamous,” he told me, fiddling with his high school class ring, engraved with his name on it. “You have to try your hardest in committee. I was trying so hard to win. But once it’s done, we have fun.”
“模拟联合国派对的名声或许不大好，”罗德里格斯对我说，一只手摆弄着刻有他名字的高中毕业戒指，“在委员会辩论时，你必须全力以赴才行。为了获胜，我当时拼尽了全力。但一旦整个活动结束了，我们就需要找个乐子，放松一下。”