The very first movies were, in their way, documentaries: snippets that showed the trot of a horse, a smoke-belching train pulling into a station or Queen Victoria’s Diamond Jubilee procession. But the paths of fiction and nonfiction film soon diverged, and they remain distinct today, each with separate standards and expectations and consigned to separate categories at festivals and the Oscars.
最早的电影在某种程度上都是记录片——记录马儿快步疾驰、冒烟的火车驶进车站，或维多利亚女王的钻石婚仪仗队的短片。但很快，电影中的虚构类与非虚构类就划出了鲜明的界限，至今依然泾渭分明，两种类别各有其评判标准和观影期待，在电影节与奥斯卡上也被设为两个种类。
But documentary filmmakers, chafing at those rules, eager to broaden the variety of tools at their disposal and hoping to tell their stories to a wider audience, have been pushing aggressively at the boundaries of their genre. The traditional “A-roll, B-roll, talking heads” paradigm, influenced by journalism, is increasingly being challenged by experiments in which all of the standard features of the traditional documentary — like voice-over, music cues and narrative arcs based on real life — are being mutated or eschewed and devices from the world of fiction embraced.
但是记录片电影人却对这些规则感到恼火，他们激烈地冲击着记录片这个门类的边界，希望拓宽自己使用的工具种类，也希望把自己的故事讲给更多人听。新闻影响下的传统“第一条录像，第二条录像，接受访问者发言”范式日益受到各种试验的冲击，在这些试验中，所有传统纪录片的标准——诸如画外音、音乐的插入，以及建立在现实生活基础上的叙事过程——全都被改变和回避，而且借鉴了虚构类电影中的规则。
“It almost feels wrong to call the films that are coming out now documentaries,” said Richard Rowley, director of the Oscar-nominated “Dirty Wars,” which used film-noir techniques. “It sounds like we are stenographers, filing away records for future generations to see what life was like here, not storytellers. But there’s a huge body of docs being produced now that are as immersive and transformational as a well-constructed fiction film.”
“我几乎觉得现在这些记录片根本就不叫记录片，”奥斯卡提名影片《肮脏的战争》(Dirty Wars)导演理查德·罗利(Richard Rowley)说，他的这部电影使用了黑色电影技巧。“我们好像速记员，为未来的人们记录生活的样子，而不是讲故事的人。但现在有大量记录片采取拟真和转换的手法，就像精心构思的虚构影片。”
There were indications of that approach in this year’s Oscar race, in which one of the nominees was “The Act of Killing,” a documentary about mass slaughter in Indonesia that relied heavily on re-enactments by members of the death squads that committed the original crimes. But it is even more evident in a crop of new documentaries that includes “The Missing Picture,” a memoir of genocide in Cambodia that opens in New York on Wednesday, and “Manakamana,” which takes place entirely in a single cable car in Nepal and will open in theaters next month.
从今年的奥斯卡记录片就可以看出种种迹象，其中一部提名影片名为《杀戮表演》(The Act of Killing)，是关于印度尼西亚的大屠杀，它主要是让当年的屠杀小队成员们重演当年的罪行。但是在《残缺影像》(The Missing Picture)和《玛纳卡玛纳》(Manakamana)等一大批新片中，这种倾向还要更明显。《残缺影像》是关于发生在柬埔寨的种族灭绝行为，周四在纽约上映；《玛纳卡玛纳》完全发生在尼泊尔的一个缆车里，将于下月上映。
In many ways, “The Missing Picture,” which last spring won the top prize the Cannes festival’s Un Certain Regard competition for “original and different” work and was nominated for an Oscar in the foreign-language category, is a hybrid. An intensely autobiographical account of the genocide the Khmer Rouge inflicted on Cambodia from 1975 to 1979, the film is directed by a survivor, Rithy Panh, and uses techniques unusual in documentaries.
在很多方面，上月因其“独创性与非同寻常”而获得戛纳电影节“一种关注”竞赛单元大奖，并获得奥斯卡最佳外语片提名的《残缺影像》是一个混合品种。它是一部激烈的自传性描述，反映1975年到1979年红色高棉在柬埔寨的种族灭绝屠杀，由幸存者潘礼德执导，使用了记录片中不常用的技巧。
Confronted with the absence of family records and the relative paucity of official documents, Mr. Panh, 49, had to search hard to find substitutes. He ended up using clay figures set in dioramas and mixed in whatever grainy archival footage he could find, along with Khmer Rouge songs and speeches, dream and fantasy sequences, and a haunting original score, topping all that off with a hallucinatory, poetic, French-language narration.
潘礼德今年49岁，他手中没有家庭录像，官方记录也相对匮乏，只得艰苦地寻找替代品。最后他使用泥人，摆放成立体模型，混合以他找到的粗糙的记录胶片，还有红色高棉的歌曲和演讲，作为梦幻般的插曲，不时有真实的场面插进来，全片辅以恍惚而诗意的法语旁白。
“I’m not really very concerned when I’m starting a film whether it will be documentary or fiction,” he said in an interview late last year. “When you’re making a documentary, you don’t have actors, but nonetheless, there is a writing process that does take place in the editing room. Every time you are getting ready to make a shot in a documentary film, you are asking yourself questions about your cinematographic approach. You are approaching the truth, but the image is never the truth itself.”
“开始拍一部电影之初，我会想很多，它究竟是记录片还是虚构的？”去年年底，他在接受采访时说，“拍记录片的时候，你就不能有演员，但不管怎么说，在剪辑室里还有一个编写加工的过程。每当你准备好为记录片拍下一个镜头的时候，都会问自己，你的摄影方法是什么？你在逼近真实，但影像从来不是真实本身。”
That creative restlessness and struggle with form also explicitly power Art of the Real, a documentary festival the Film Society of Lincoln Center will be holding next month. “The documentary as we have come to know it, especially in the United States, emphasizes content over form, information over aesthetics,” the festival’s program note says, adding that there is consequently a need “for the documentary to be reconsidered as art.”
创作中这种关于形式的不安和挣扎在“真实艺术”(Art of Real)电影节中也很鲜明，这个电影节下个月将在林肯中心电影协会举行。“我们所了解的记录片（特别是在美国），强调内容多于形式；强调信息多于美学，”电影节的流程注释中写道，它还说，因此，“将记录片视为艺术”的需要便应运而生。
“It’s not that there isn’t a lot of really worthwhile work in the field,” said Dennis Lim, the film society’s programming director (and a former contributor to The New York Times). “But I feel it gets dangerously close to being just informational or journalistic.” He added: “We’ve come to think of documentary and fiction as very distinct forms, but the line isn’t as clear-cut as we have been conditioned to think. There’s a lot of work that falls in between.”
“并不是说现场的工作没有多少有价值的，”电影协会的排片指导（他也曾为《纽约时报》撰稿）丹尼斯·林姆(Dennis Lim)说。“但我觉得它过于贴近追求信息和新闻性了，”他补充说，“我们曾把记录片和虚构类影片当成截然不同的两种类别，但这个界限并不是我们曾经认为的那样鲜明。有许多作品介于二者之间。”
Festival offerings include “Actress,” an observational documentary about the comeback efforts of Brandy Burre (“The Wire”), in which it is sometimes not clear whether she is performing for the camera or just “being herself.” “Bloody Beans” begins with footage of children playing on a beach, then turns into a metaphoric re-enactment of Algeria’s war for independence. “The Second Game” consists of the Romanian director Corneliu Porumbolu and his father, a soccer referee, watching a tape of a 1988 game and reflecting on the country’s history since then.
参加电影节的影片中有《女演员》(Actress)，这是一部观察性的记录片，讲述曾参演《火线》(The Wire)的演员布朗迪·伯尔(Brandy Burre)的康复过程，其中她究竟是在对着镜头表演，还是在“做自己”有时难以分清。《血豆》(Bloody Beans)以一群孩子在海滩嬉戏的镜头开始，之后变为阿尔及利亚独立战争的隐喻重现。《第二个游戏》拍摄了罗马尼亚导演科尼琉·波伦波路(Corneliu Porumbolu)和父亲，一位足球裁判，一起观看一段1988年的球赛录像，评论这个国家截止到那段时间的历史。
Also due out this spring, on April 25, is “Who Is Dayani Cristal?,” which uses two contrasting techniques to examine the problem of immigrants dying in the Arizona desert as they try to enter the United States illegally. One story line follows immigration agents and diplomats as they work to identify a corpse found near Tucson, while in the other, the Mexican actor Gael García Bernal travels the same route as the dead man and at times even assumes his identity.
这个春天还有其他影片，4月25日，《谁是达亚尼·克里斯托？》(Who Is Dayani Cristal?)即将上映，它以两重对比审视偷渡美国的非法移民死于亚利桑那州沙漠的问题。一条故事线跟随移民中介和外交家们，他们试图确认塔克森附近一具尸体的身份；另一条线则跟随墨西哥演员盖尔·加西亚·伯纳尔(Gael Garcia Bernal)重走一遍那个死者走过的路线，有时演员甚至假设自己就是那个人。
Though more and more common, re-enactments remain a controversial tool, with this month’s Oscars illustrating that point. “The Missing Picture” received a nomination for best foreign-language film, but it did not even make the shortlist in the documentary category, and, in the clearest sign of internal divisions among documentary filmmakers, Sarah Polley’s much-praised and innovative “Stories We Tell” failed to get a nomination.
“重演”这种形式尽管愈来愈常见，但仍然存在争议，这个月奥斯卡奖的结果表明了这一点。《残缺影像》获得最佳外语片提名，但没有进入最佳纪录片的最佳名单，此外，萨拉·波利(Sarah Polley)备受好评，极具创意的《我们讲述的故事》(Stories We Tell)未获提名，这无疑是记录片影人内部分歧最鲜明的迹象。
That film, in which Ms. Polley examined a question of paternity in her own family, won prizes from New York and Los Angeles critics groups and was the only documentary to be nominated for both Writers Guild and Directors Guild awards, winning the writers’ award. But members of the Academy’s documentary branch apparently balked at rewarding her for blending home movies with what she called “re-created” footage, all shot in Super 8.
片中波利检视了家中对谁是亲生父亲的疑惑，在纽约和洛杉矶的评论圈中都得到好评，是唯一既获得编剧指导奖(Writers Guild)提名，也获得导演指导奖(Directors Guild)提名的记录片，最后获得编剧奖。但奥斯卡记录片奖的评委们显然不敢奖励她这种把家庭录像与她所谓的“再创作”镜头混合在一起的做法，两种镜头都是用超8摄像机拍摄的。
“People were upset, mad that they got tricked, that their expectations of what they are going to see in a doc were violated,” said Michael Lumpkin, executive director of the International Documentary Association. “But I felt that made it an interesting viewing experience, and I didn’t react in anger.” The question, in his view, is: “Why should I care, if it’s a good film? That’s one of the points of the film, that all stories are constructed, and you do what you do to tell a story.”
“人们感到不安和恼火，觉得自己被骗了，他们对于观看纪录片的期待被颠覆了，”国际纪录片协会的执行会长迈克尔·兰普金(Michael Lumpin)说。“但我觉得这令观看体验更加有趣，我不会觉得愤怒。”他认为，问题在于“如果这是一部好电影，那我又为什么要在乎呢？这正是电影的一个元素：所有的故事都是被构想出来的，你要竭尽全力去讲故事。”
Recent years have often been regarded as a golden age for documentary films, and to some extent that is true, at least on a superficial level. Film festivals now devote more attention than ever to the genre, and entities like HBO, CNN and Netflix have joined PBS in commissioning, broadcasting and distributing nonfiction films.
最近几年通常被视为记录片的黄金时代，在某种程度上，这是真的，至少在表面上是真的。如今电影节对这个门类的关注是前所未有的，HBO、CNN和Netflix等大公司和PBS一样，也在委托拍摄、播出和发行非虚构类影片。