Why is olive oil, the crown jewel of the Mediterranean diet, so good for your health?
橄榄油可谓地中海饮食这个王冠上的明珠，可它为什么对你的健康有益？
Nutritionists point to its abundance of antioxidants and oleic acid, a monounsaturated fat that protects the heart. But new research suggests that some of the benefits of olive oil might be contained in its aroma.
营养学家指出，关键在于橄榄油中含有大量抗氧化剂和油酸，后者是一种可以保护心脏的单一不饱和脂肪。但新研究发现，橄榄油的一些益处可能存在于它的香气中。
The research found that compared to other oils and fats, extra virgin olive oil was more likely to increase a person’s feelings of satiety after a meal. But another phase of the study showed that just imparting the scent of olive oil to food – by adding an aromatic extract – reduced the amount of calories people in the study consumed and improved their blood sugar response.
这项研究发现，跟其他油脂相比，特纯初榨橄榄油更有可能在人们吃完一餐饭后，增进其满足感。而同一项研究在下一阶段的实验发现，仅仅通过添加香味剂，给食物注入橄榄油的香味，就能减少研究对象摄入的热量，改善其血糖反应。
Smell and taste, it is well known, are two senses that are strongly tied together. Previous research has shown that manipulating the aroma of certain foods can influence the amount of them that people choose to eat. Intensifying the smell and flavor of a dessert, for example, can prompt people to take smaller bites.
大家都知道，嗅觉和味觉是两种联系紧密的感觉。此前的研究显示，通过控制某些食物的香气，就能影响人们吃进这些食物的总量。比方说，加重一种甜品的香气和口味，可以让人们吃得小口一些。
The goal of the new study was to take a closer look at the factors that make some foods more filling than others.
而这项新研究的目的是要进一步了解，是哪些因素导致一些食物相比另一些，能给人们带来更强烈的饱足感。
Many products in supermarkets nowadays attract consumers with labels saying “low-fat,” but eating low-fat foods can cause people to compensate by overeating later on, said Dr. Malte Rubach, a nutritional scientist who helped carry out the research with colleagues at the German Research Center for Food Chemistry, a government-financed institute based outside of Munich that published the report.
发表这项研究的是德国食品化学研究中心(German Research Center for Food Chemistry)，这是一所政府出资的研究所，位于慕尼黑郊区，研究的主持人是营养学家玛尔特·鲁巴赫博士(Marte Rubach)。他说，现在超市里的很多商品都标榜“低脂”，以此来吸引消费者，但吃低脂食品会导致人们此后吃更多东西来补偿自己。
“We wanted to see whether there was a way to reduce the fat content of food without losing its taste or aroma,” Dr. Rubach said.
鲁巴赫博士说：“我们想知道，有没有一种办法能在不影响食物口感和香味的同时，又能减少食物的脂肪含量。”
The researchers, who received no funding from producers of olive oil, began the study by comparing the effects of four different fats on feelings of satiety: lard, butter, olive oil and canola oil. Canola oil has less monounsaturated fat than olive oil, but less saturated fat as well, and is often recommended along with olive oil as a healthy alternative to other cooking oils.
研究人员并未接受橄榄油厂商的资助，他们在研究之初，比较了四种不同油脂对满足感的影响，分别是猪油、牛油、橄榄油和芥花籽油。相比橄榄油，芥花籽油所含的单一不饱和脂肪较少，但同时含有的饱和脂肪也更少，人们往往会把它和橄榄油并列，作为较健康的烹饪用油选择。
The researchers recruited 120 people and randomly split them into five groups. The participants were told simply to eat 500 grams of yogurt every day for three months. In four of the groups, the yogurt was enriched with one of the four fats. The fifth group, which served as the control, ate plain, zero-fat yogurt.
研究人员招募了120人，随机将其分为五组。受试者只被简单告知，要在接下来三个月里，每天吃500克酸奶。在其中四组，酸奶中加入了上述四种油脂中的一种。第五组则被当作对照组，吃的是脱脂纯酸奶。
The subjects were followed closely and regularly given blood tests. They were not told specifically what was in their daily yogurt, though for ethical reasons they were informed that it might be enriched with animal or plant-derived fats, Dr. Rubach said.
鲁巴赫博士说，他们密切观察受试人员，并定期对其进行血检。他们并未明确告知受试者，在他们每天吃的酸奶里加进了什么东西，但基于伦理原因，他们告知对方，酸奶里可能加入了动物或植物油脂。
After eating their yogurt, the olive oil group showed the greatest increases in blood levels of serotonin, a hormone associated with satiety. They also reduced their normal caloric intake most days to compensate for the extra daily yogurt, which prevented them from gaining weight, a pattern that was also seen in the butter and control groups. The canola and lard groups, however, did gain weight during the study period. Instead of cutting back on other calories, they added the yogurt to what they were already eating on a regular basis.
结束实验时，酸奶里加了橄榄油的这一组成员血检中五羟色胺的浓度增幅最大，而这种荷尔蒙跟满足感有关。因为额外吃了很多酸奶，他们还经常减少每日热量摄入。而这防止了他们体重增加，这种饮食模式在牛油和对照组也出现了。至于芥花籽油和猪油组的成员，他们在研究期间确实增重了。他们并未减少摄入其他热量，在吃酸奶的同时还是遵守着日常饮食标准。
“You could see that those who felt really satiated reduced their total energy intake,” Dr. Rubach said, “whereas the others didn’t reduce their energy intake and they gained some weight.”
“可以发现，那些感到十分满足的人减少了他们的总体能量摄入，而其他人并未减少摄入量，结果体重增加了，”鲁巴赫博士说。
The researchers were particularly surprised to see that weight and body fat increased in the group that was fed canola oil, despite its similar health properties to olive oil. So they designed the next phase of the study to see whether there was something other than the nutrients in the two oils that accounted for their different impacts.
研究人员对一个非常特别意外：在添加了芥花籽油的组别，成员的体重和体脂率都出现了增长，而这种油的健康成份与橄榄油类似。于是他们又设计了研究的第二阶段，想要了解除了营养成份，是否在这两种植物油中还存在着其他因素，导致产生了完全不同的结果。
This time, subjects were split into two groups that were given zero-fat yogurt. In one of the groups, the yogurt was mixed with an aroma extract that imparted the scent of olive oil without adding any fat.
这一次，研究对象被分为两组，吃的都是脱脂酸奶。在其中一组，酸奶中加入了香味剂，为酸奶增添了橄榄油的芳香气味，但并未加入任何脂肪。
Those who ate the plain yogurt showed a drop in serotonin levels and reported less satiation after eating it. They also did not cut back on other calories to compensate; instead, their intake increased an average of 176 calories a day.
吃纯酸奶的这一组成员，五羟色胺水平出现下跌，在吃完酸奶后也不再那么满足。他们也没有少吃其他食品以抵销摄入的酸奶热量；相反，他们平均每天多摄入了176大卡热量。
The group eating the olive-oil flavored yogurt, meanwhile, reduced their calories from other foods and showed better responses when given glucose tolerance tests, which measure blood sugar control. Abrupt swings in blood sugar are part of what drives hunger and satiation.
而吃橄榄油风味酸奶的这一组，则少吃了其他食物，而在接受测量血糖控制水平的葡萄糖耐受试验时，测试结果也更好。而血糖值忽上忽下，就是人们感到饥饿或饱足的原因之一。
The researchers attributed the impact of the olive oil scent to two aroma compounds that are particularly abundant in Italian olive oils, including hexanal, which is said to resemble the scent of freshly cut grass.
研究者将橄榄油气味的影响归功于两种芳香化合物，它们大量存在于意大利橄榄油中。其中一种是己醛，这种化合物的气味跟新刈的青草很像。
Dr. Rubach said that because the study was small, it would not be a good idea to draw any general recommendations from it. But the findings do suggest that consumers should be aware that the physiological impact of a meal is not limited to what they can see on the plate.
鲁巴赫博士说，这项研究规模较小，所以目前还不适合从中得出某些带有普遍性的饮食建议。但研究结果确实在提醒消费者注意，一餐饭带来的生理学的影响，并不仅限于盘子里有哪些食物。
“This is the first time where we’ve really looked at the effects that things other than fatty acids, protein and carbohydrates have on satiety,” he said. “Everything that completes our impression of a meal can have an impact.”
他说：“我们第一次真正注意到，在脂肪酸、蛋白质和碳水化合物之外，还有别的东西对人们的饱足感会起作用。所有参与完成了我们对一餐饭的印象的因素，都会起到效果。”