KHUAN NGOEN, Thailand — The rubber farmers of southern Thailand are inured to hardship, whether from the toilsome predawn harvests in mosquito-infested plantations or the vagaries of the market for their latex. But this month, they snapped.
泰国宽银——泰国南部的胶农已习惯了艰难困苦，不论是天不亮就在蚊虫遍布的农场上辛苦劳作，还是承受乳胶市场的变化无常。但这个月，他们受不了了。
After two years of falling rubber prices had driven many farmers into debt, hundreds of them blockaded the region’s main north-south road and railroad to protest.
橡胶价格的不断下降，让许多胶农背上债务。这种情况持续两年后，数百人阻断了该地区的南北向公路和铁路主干道，以示抗议。
“This was our last resort, our only option,” said Thaworn Ruengkling, a rubber farmer who says he can no longer earn enough from farming to cover the cost of fuel and fertilizer, never mind feeding his family.
“我们不得已才这么做，这是我们唯一的选择，”胶农他翁·伦克灵(Thaworn Ruengkling)称。他还表示，种植橡胶已不再能给他提供足够的收入来支付燃料和肥料费用，更不用说养家糊口了。
“We can’t take it anymore,” Mr. Thaworn said Thursday at one of the intersections that the farmers had blocked with commandeered trucks and buses.
“我们受不了了，”他翁周四说。胶农们用征来的货车和公交阻断了多个路口，他翁守在其中的一个路口。
For years, breathless economic growth in Asia, especially in China and India, helped send the prices of commodities like rubber, palm oil and coffee soaring. But as Asia began to cool off and the West remained sluggish, the prices of many commodities have crashed, threatening the incomes of millions of farmers, especially in Southeast Asia.
多年来，亚洲，尤其是中国和印度的经济飞速发展，推动了橡胶、棕榈油和咖啡等商品的价格飙升。但随着亚洲经济开始降温，而西方经济仍显疲软，许多商品的价格骤降，威胁到数百万务农者的收入。这种状况在东南亚尤为严重。
The rubber farmers’ blockade has caused a political storm in Thailand, and analysts say it will not be the last. The Thai police tried and failed to remove the farmers here by force, a clash that has helped embolden the political opposition led by the Democrat Party, which is strongest in southern Thailand.
胶农的堵路行为在泰国引发了一场政治风暴。分析人士表示，以后还会有类似事件发生。泰国警方试图强行解除封锁，但没有成功。冲突让泰国南部势力最大的民主党(Democrat Party)领导的政治反对派力量得以加强。
Bridget Welsh, a researcher based in Singapore and an expert on Southeast Asian politics, said that falling commodity prices were likely to have political implications in Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam as well, all countries where the government relies to varying degrees on rural support. In Indonesia, five million people work on palm oil plantations; in Malaysia, farmworkers and holders of small tracts of land are part of the core of the governing party’s support.
在新加坡做研究的东南亚政治问题专家布里奇特·韦尔什(Bridget Welsh)称，商品价格下降还可能在马来西亚、印度尼西亚以及越南产生政治影响，而这些国家的政府都不同程度地依赖来自农村地区的支持。在印度尼西亚，500万人在棕榈园工作；在马来西亚，农民和小地块的所有者构成了支持执政党的部分中坚力量。
If prices continue to slide, governments in Asia may soon be faced with deciding which farmers to support, as Thailand has on a large scale by providing billions of dollars in subsidies to rice farmers, and which ones they cannot afford to help.
如果价格持续下滑，亚洲多个国家的政府可能将很快需要决定，有能力给哪部分务农者提供支持，又得舍弃哪部分。前者有泰国作为先例，数十亿美元的大规模补贴被发放给了米农。
Ms. Welsh predicted that the price declines would “lead to instability and strengthen the opposition” in Malaysia and Thailand, and “expose regional governments to more scrutiny” of how they manage their economies.
韦尔什预测，商品价格下降将在马来西亚和泰国“带来不稳定，同时加强反对派力量”，并使该地区政府在管理经济的方式上受到更多的审视。
The sharp decline in rubber prices — more than 45 percent in two years — appears traceable to a classic boom-and-bust cycle: farms that expanded when demand was high now produce too much rubber when demand is slack.
橡胶价格的骤降——两年内下降了45%——似乎可归因于典型的繁荣与萧条周期：需求高时农场扩张发展，而现在需求疲软，又导致橡胶生产过剩。
Thailand has long been the world’s leading producer of rubber, but over the past decade China, India, Indonesia, Myanmar and Vietnam have contributed to an increase in output of millions of tons, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.
根据联合国粮食及农业组织(United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization)的统计，泰国长期以来都是世界上最大的橡胶生产国，但在过去10年里，中国、印度、印度尼西亚、缅甸和越南也为数百万吨橡胶产出的增长做出了贡献。
“We are in real trouble,” said Banlue Chankaew, a third-generation rubber farmer standing at a barricade on the main north-south road on Thursday. After splurging on cars, motorcycles, furniture and smartphones during the good years, many farmers have now had to borrow money, often at usurious rates from loan sharks. Those who cannot pay their debts have fled to other parts of the country, Mr. Banlue said.
同样在周四，站在南北主干道一处路障旁的第三代胶农班吕·沙凯乌(Banlue Chankaew)说，“我们遇到了真正的麻烦。”经济景气时，他们在汽车、摩托车、家具和智能手机上大肆挥霍，而现在，许多人不得不以离谱的利率借高利贷。班吕说，那些无力还债的人逃到了泰国其他地方。
Responding to the farmers’ calls to guarantee them prices well above current market rates, government officials have held negotiations and appear to be haggling over how much assistance they will provide. But the government has also sought to portray the protesters as troublemakers. The provincial police chief warned reporters and government officials on Thursday that it would be dangerous to visit the protests.
胶农要求，政府保证其产品价格远超当前的市场价格。面对他们的呼声，政府官员进行了协商，表面看来正在为提供多少援助而争论不休。但与此同时，政府也试图将抗议人群描绘成麻烦制造者。周四，省级警察局长警告记者和政府官员，去抗议现场会很危险。
“Don’t risk your life,” said Maj. Gen. Ronnapong Saikaew, the chief of police in the province of Nakhon Si Thammarat.
“不要拿生命冒险，”洛坤府警察局局长伦那篷·塞凯乌少将(Ronnapong Saikaew)这样说道。
Mr. Banlue does not elicit fear. Soft-spoken and courteous, he seemed out of place at the barricade. “I’m 45 years old, and this is my first time taking part in a protest,” he said.
班吕看上去并不危险。他说话温和，很有礼貌，站在路障旁边似乎有些无所适从。“我今年45岁了，这是我第一次参加抗议，”班吕说。
Other protesters, especially younger ones, were armed with wooden sticks and slingshots. At night, they burn tires near the barricades.
而其他一些抗议者，尤其是那些年轻人，则手持木棍和弹弓。晚上，他们会在路障附近燃烧轮胎。
Opposition leaders accuse Thailand’s prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, of botching the government’s response to the protests. The rubber crisis is one of a number of problems facing Ms. Yingluck, who had not held political office before becoming prime minister in 2011, and the opposition often faults her for being inexperienced and for lacking detailed knowledge of the economy. Beyond that, rubber farmers say she favors rice farmers, who are concentrated in areas where Ms. Yingluck’s political party, Pheu Thai, has strong support.
反对派领导人抨击泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)，称政府对抗议做出的回应十分拙劣。橡胶危机是2011年当选总理前没有执政经验的英拉正面临的一系列问题之一。反对派经常指责她缺乏政治经验，对经济无甚了解。除此之外，胶农们声称，英拉偏袒米农，因为后者集中于英拉领导的为泰党(Pheu Thai)拥有较强支持的地区。
“We feel we are the forgotten child in the family,” said Mr. Banlue, who was also the deputy headman of his village.
“我们感觉像是家里被遗弃的孩子，”班吕说。他还是所在村庄的副村长。
The rubber farmers say they only resorted to blockades after repeatedly writing to government officials asking for help but never receiving a response.
胶农表示，他们曾反复给政府官员写信求助，却从未收到回复，之后才选择封堵道路。
“We had to think of a way,” said Wichan Raksapon, whose neat rows of rubber trees grow beside the blocked road, “that would make people understand that we have severe problems.”
“我们必须想个法子，”威占·叻沙庞(Wichan Raksapon)说。他排列整齐的橡胶树就长在糟封堵的道路旁边。“这会让人们了解到，我们确实面临着严重的问题。”