Falling coconuts, papaya groves, Buddhist temples, nine-foot-long pythons and miles of bike-friendly elevated sidewalks snaking through the jungle:  Welcome to Bang Krachao, a smog-free, government-protected oasis of green that the mighty Chao Phraya River wraps around.
掉落的椰子、木瓜树丛、佛教寺庙，还有九英尺长的巨蟒。高架人行步道在丛林里绵延数英里，非常适合骑行——欢迎来到Bang Krachao公园，辽阔湄南河怀抱里一个没有雾霾且受政府保护的绿洲。
This verdant island is all the more remarkable because it is across the river from Bangkok. The contrast between “Bangkok’s Green Lung,” as the palm-choked, lung-shaped Bang Krachao is known, and the concrete jungle on the opposite bank could not be more striking. Downtown Bangkok’s central Silom business district is only about six miles away.
这个葱茏小岛与曼谷只有一河之隔，因而更加引人瞩目。Bang Krachao公园里棕榈婆娑，轮廓好像人类的肺，故有“曼谷绿肺”的昵称。与对岸的水泥丛林相比，反差非常强烈。曼谷市中心的席隆(Silom)商业区距离公园只有6英里。
“It’s amazing how few Bangkok locals come here,” said Paul Mueller, an expat American engineer who recently began running bike tours, using a growing fleet of fat-tired custom cruisers he buys from junkyards and refurbishes. Like many others, he frequently heads into Bangkok via a regular ferry service (about five minutes to the other side of the river) and then hops on Bangkok’s Skytrain mass transit system. Mr. Mueller believes many city dwellers avoid the area because “Thais are in love with their cars,” he said. “But it’s hard to bring your car here because there’s only one road.” Yet the languid, rural way of life is evolving on this patch of wild, which is actually an artificial island because of a canal built on one side.
“来这里的曼谷人非常少，真让人惊讶。”保罗·穆勒(Paul Mueller)说。穆勒是个侨居泰国的美国人，最近开始运营自行车旅行团，业务进展不错。自行车都是他从旧货市场购买并翻新的休闲自行车，然后装上粗壮的轮胎。与其他人一样，他经常乘渡船去曼谷城（大约5分钟就能达到对岸），然后跳上曼谷发达的轻轨交通。穆勒先生知道，许多城市居民都不想来这个公园，因为“泰国人实在太喜欢开车了”。“然而，你又很难将自己的汽车带到这里，因为这里只有一条路。”但无论如何，这种缓慢的乡村生活方式正在这块野性的土地上发展演变。这个公园所在的地方其实是个人工岛屿，一条运河从它旁边流过。
Bang Krachao is emerging from its time warp as more local bike tours are offered and new establishments (boutique hotels, a coffee bar) join old stalwarts (food stalls, a floating farmers’ market). Even so, “mai pen rai” (Thai for “no problem”) could serve as the island leitmotif, according to Mr. Mueller. The laid-back feeling of Bang Krachao itself is a lure to a growing community of day-tripping Thais, cycling-loving tourists and expatriates.
Bang Krachao公园出现的背景，是当地自行车旅行团越来越多，而新型商业机构（精品酒店、咖啡吧）也在古老的商业版图（小吃摊档、流动菜市场）中不断涌现。即便如此，“mai pen rai”（泰语“没问题，放宽心”）仍然可以成为这座岛屿的主题，穆勒先生解释道。Bang Krachao公园休闲放松的气氛对喜欢骑车、喜欢当日旅行的泰国人和外国侨民来说是个巨大的诱惑，而这个人群的规模正在逐渐变大。
Among the newcomers is the Bangkok Tree House, a stylish, ecofriendly boutique hotel that Joey Tulyanond, the 37-year-old son of a Thai diplomat, opened last year. Mr. Tulyanond recently began offering cooking classes in the hotel’s spacious kitchen for guests who want to learn to cook like locals. Nearby, a bungalow resort is under construction.
岛上的新成员还有曼谷树屋酒店(Bangkok Tree House)，一家时尚又环保的精品酒店。酒店是去年开业的，老板乔伊·图里亚南德(Joey Tulyanond)今年37岁，是一个泰国外交官的儿子。最近，图里亚南德先生开始在酒店宽敞的厨房里开设烹饪课程，学员都是希望像当地人一样做饭的酒店住客。酒店附近，一座平顶木屋风格的度假村正在建设中。
Visitors can also take cooking (and incense-making) classes at the Herbal Joss Stick Home, a five-minute bike ride from the hotel.
游客也可以到附近的草药香别墅(Herbal Joss Stick Home)去学习烹饪和祭祀香支的制作，从酒店到那个地方骑车只需5分钟。
Biking is a big draw in Bang Krachao, where most locals get around on bikes or scooters. Nai Baan Kafe (Coffee House), a new coffee bar with Wi-Fi, has become a popular refueling stop for cyclists.
骑车是Bang Krachao公园的一大卖点。当地大部分居民出行都是骑自行车或摩托车。最近开张的Nai Baan Kafe咖啡馆配有Wi-Fi，已成为骑行爱好者充电休整的热门地点。
On a recent half-day bike tour, I pedaled slowly behind Mr. Mueller. The jungle air, full of chirps and buzzes, smelled of musty decomposing leaves. We threaded among hamlets studded with wood-framed cottages on stilts and through shady, swampy patches sheltered by towering palm trees. As we cycled, Mr. Mueller remarked that he was not troubled by the lack of guardrails on the raised paths, the tree vipers or even the python he spotted on the road one night. His fear? Falling coconuts, he said, like the one he saw crash down during a recent ride, scaring him half to death.
在最近的一次半日骑行之旅中，我跟在穆勒先生身后，悠闲地踩着踏板。丛林中到处是鸟声和虫鸣，还能嗅到到落叶自然腐烂的气味。我们穿过点缀着吊脚楼木屋别墅的几个小村，又走过阴凉潮湿、长满高大棕榈树的土地。穆勒先生一边骑车一边告诉我，这个高架道路两侧没有护栏他根本不怕。树上的毒蛇甚至某一夜他偶尔瞥见的一条巨蟒，也不会将他吓倒。那他怕的是什么呢？他说，是掉落的椰子。近期的一次骑行中，一只椰子凶猛地坠落眼前，将他吓了个半死。 
Yet coconut-related anxieties dissipated amid the village fair atmosphere of the weekend Bang Namphueng floating market. Crossing a humpbacked bridge, I saw a dozen small wooden vendor boats moored along a canal. They were far outnumbered, though, by covered open-air stalls set up next to the canal serving sizzling stir-fries and fragrant curries to customers seated on low plastic stools. Scores of other thatched-roof stands selling fruit, vegetables, soaps and sweets crammed the covered walkways.
但是，与椰子有关的恐惧在随后的欢乐氛围中迅速消散。我们到达的一个村里正在举办Bang Namphueng周末流动市场。走过拱桥的时候，我看到十多条小型木船沿着运河一字排开，都是商贩们的货船。但它们的数量远远比不上岸上带有顶棚的摊档。摊主们供应滋滋作响的油炸食品和香喷喷的咖喱调味料，顾客们坐在低矮的塑料板凳上尽情享受美食。带有顶棚的走道上，还挤着几十个茅草覆顶的摊位，出售水果、蔬菜、肥皂和糖果。
A wizened saffron-robed Buddhist monk flicked holy water from a brush onto a passer-by. Children played while their parents sang karaoke and spread picnic lunches near a Technicolor temple. As we left the market area, Mr. Mueller pointed out the freshly asphalted parking lot.
一名身形枯瘦、穿藏红长袍的僧侣用拂尘将圣水洒在一名过客的身上。父母们忙着唱卡拉OK，或将野餐午饭在彩色寺庙旁边的地上摊开，孩子们则趁机疯玩。我们离开市场的时候，穆勒先生对我指了指刚刚建好的沥青停车场。
“The market is growing,” he said. “More city folks are coming here on the weekends.” Now he has a new fear: traffic jams. “We don’t want Bangkok over here,” he said.
“市场正在增长。”他说，“越来越多的城市居民周末来这里度假。”现在他有了一种新的恐惧：交通堵塞。“我们不想在这里看到曼谷。”他说。