In the 1970s gay tours took men rafting in the Grand Canyon and to Rio de Janeiro for Carnival. Gay hotels began opening in Key West, Fla. And destinations like Provincetown, Mass., were creating some of the first marketing to gay and lesbian travelers.
20世纪70年代，同志旅行无非是在科罗拉多大峡谷漂流或者奔赴里约热内卢的狂欢节。后来，佛罗里达州的基韦斯特(Key West)诞生了专为同志开设的酒店。麻省的普罗文斯敦(Provincetown)等旅游胜地开始向男女同性恋旅行者开放市场。
Today, there are tours spanning the globe not only for gay men, but also for lesbian, bisexual and transgender travelers and their children. Major hotel chains like Hilton and Marriott have dedicated L.G.B.T. microsites and vacation packages. And same-sex marriage laws are transforming cities into travel destinations, with tourism boards and hotels sponsoring L.G.B.T. events and funding advertising campaigns with taglines like Las Vegas’s “Everyone’s welcome. Even straight people.”  
而今，世界各地许多旅游景点不仅面向男同、女同，还面向双性恋、变性者（下简称LGBT——编注）及其子女开放。各大连锁酒店集团如希尔顿酒店和万豪酒店都有专门的LGBT分店及度假套餐。随着同性婚姻的合法化，许多城市变成了同志旅游目的地，各地旅游局与大酒店都在赞助LGBT盛会，并为此展开了激烈的广告大战，比如，拉斯维加斯的口号是：“我们欢迎一切游客，哪怕你是异性恋！”
Most of these changes have come in the aftermath of the recession — when hospitality brands began ramping up ways to lure a niche market that studies said prioritized travel and spent accordingly — and when more and more states are legalizing same-sex marriage.
这些改变大多伴随着经济不景气应运而生。当时，一些名牌酒店想方设法吸引业内看好的旅行与消费方面的一些缝隙市场，与此同时，美国有越来越多的州通过了同性婚姻法案。
“Having gay marriage passed in so many states has made a big difference,” said Robert Adams, editorial director of Passport magazine, which has an audience of mostly affluent gay male travelers. “People feel they can go someplace and be themselves.” 
“同性婚姻在许多州都已经合法化，情况发生了巨大的改变。”《通行证》(Passport)杂志的主编罗伯特·亚当斯(Robert Adams)说。这份杂志的读者大多是生活优渥的男同性恋旅行者。“同志人群觉得去某些特定的地方旅行，能够更加放心地做自己。”
The number of places where L.G.B.T. travelers can be themselves has grown exponentially from the pre-Stonewall refuges. Sure, there are plenty of cruises and tours that specifically cater to gay travelers. But the gay vacation that once existed out of necessity is now often simply a vacation — be it a routine family getaway, a destination wedding or a romantic weekend.
与前石墙避难所时代相比，如今能让LGBT人群放心做自己的旅游胜地数目呈指数上升。确实，有许多游览与旅行都是专门面向同志旅行者设计的。但是，当初出于必要而诞生的同志游，而今在很多时候却仅仅是一场寻常的度假，无非是平凡的合家出游、旅行婚礼或者浪漫的周末。
Major cities including Chicago, Los Angeles and Washington continue to be among the most popular vacation spots, according to Community Marketing & Insights in San Francisco, which has been tracking L.G.B.T. travel trends for 20 years. However, medium-size cities like St. Louis, Rochester and, in Florida, St. Petersburg are emerging as regional destinations. Countries in Latin America such as Argentina and Uruguay are opening up thanks to new gay-rights laws. Even the Caribbean — where there has been violence against gay people in places like St. Lucia and Jamaica — is garnering L.G.B.T. tourists because of islands like Saba, a municipality of the Netherlands, which began implementing Dutch same-sex marriage laws in 2012.
旧金山的社群市场与思考(Community Marketing & Insights)机构说，芝加哥、洛杉矶和华盛顿等大城市仍是最热门的旅行目的地，该机构追踪报导LGBT旅游动态已有二十年历史。可是，一些中等规模的城市比如圣路易斯、罗契斯特市、佛罗里达州的圣彼得斯堡市纷纷涌现出来，成为区域性的热门旅游城市。受益于新的同性恋权益法案，阿根廷和乌拉圭等拉美国家的旅游市场也日益开放。即使在加勒比海地区，虽然过去曾经发生过针对同性恋人群的暴力事件（比如圣卢西亚和牙买加），现在也开始吸引LGBT游客，因为自从2012年荷兰同性婚礼法生效之后，加勒比海地区的荷属萨巴(Saba)岛也对同志人群敞开。
“It used to be the San Franciscos, the Miamis, New York,” said John Tanzella, the president and chief executive of the International Gay and Lesbian Travel Association.  “Now you’re seeing competition from all-size destinations and hotel groups wanting a piece of the pie. L.G.B.T. travelers have more options now than just the big urban centers.”
“过去是旧金山、迈阿密和纽约，”国际同性恋旅行协会的会长兼首席执行官约翰·坦泽拉(John Tanzella)说。“现在，你会看到各大大小小的旅游胜地和酒店集团你争我抢，都想分一块蛋糕。现在，除大都市之外，同性恋旅行者的选择也非常多。”
Certainly, to define any traveler by his or her sexuality is to view that person through a narrow lens. Countless factors shape travel interests including, but hardly limited to, age, gender, race, socioeconomic status and, of course, personal taste. Some crave adventure; others long to be pampered. There are those seeking a party and those seeking a respite. Plenty of gay and lesbian travelers want to participate in L.G.B.T.-related activities; many do not. Yet the quest for the so-called “pink dollar” has accelerated — pleasing some industry veterans and putting off others — amid reports about how potentially lucrative gay travel is and could be.
当然，通过性取向来界定游客，只是通过一个狭窄的透镜来观察一个人。塑造人们旅行偏好的因素很多，包括但不限于年龄、性别、种族、社会经济状况，当然，还有个人品味。有人渴望冒险，有人贪图安逸。有人寻求派对狂欢，有人只需短暂的休憩。许多同志旅行者想参与LGBT的相关活动，但更多人不想。然而，报告显示，同性恋旅游产业利润丰厚，人们对所谓“粉色美元”的求索正日益攀升，产业会优先服务LGBT旅游达人，其他游客可以暂缓。
Just how lucrative is difficult to quantify. Community Marketing has estimated that the annual economic impact of L.G.B.T. travelers is already about $70 billion a year in the United States. But arriving at such a figure is not a science. That number and others like it are derived based on the assumption that 6 to 8 percent of overall American tourism spending (according to Department of Commerce figures) is L.G.B.T. spending, Mr. Tanzella said. 
只不过，这个产业利润究竟有多大，很难量化。根据社群市场机构估算，美国LGBT旅行者每年的经济影响已经达到大约700亿美元。但这个数字却并不是由严格的科学方法得出的。坦泽拉先生说，这个数字与其他类似的数据都只是大致的估算，根据就是按照美国商务部的统计，美国旅游业的消费中有6%至8%是由LGBT人群贡献的。
“This is such a high-traveling, high-spending population,” said Andrew Flack, vice president for product marketing and customer insights of Hilton Worldwide, adding that in the United States a higher percentage of L.G.B.T. travelers have passports than the general travel population.
“这是一个频繁旅行的高消费群体，”希尔顿全球酒店集团负责产品推广与消费者研究的副总裁安德鲁·弗兰克(Andrew Flack)说。他还强调，美国的LGBT游客持有护照的比例高于一般游客群体。
One boost to gay tourism, travel industry experts say, is same-sex marriage. In New York City alone, the economic impact of the first year of gay marriage was $259.5 million plus $16.5 million in local tax and fee revenues, according to NYC & Company, the city’s marketing and tourism organization.
旅游业专家说，同志游发展的重要推动因素是同性婚姻法。仅仅在纽约市，根据该市的市场与旅游机构“纽约市及公司”的统计，同性婚姻合法化之后的第一年，同志游对经济的影响就达到了2.595亿美元，另有1650万美元的本地税费收入。
And the marriage and honeymoon business is still in its infancy. A 2013 study from Community Marketing found that most couples who married had their wedding receptions at restaurants and private residences. Nonetheless, hotels are preparing for an influx of same-sex ceremonies. Last year W Retreat & Spa-Vieques Island partnered with one of the first businesses in the United States to specialize in planning legal same-sex weddings. And this year, despite Florida’s same-sex marriage ban, the Westin Diplomat Resort & Spa in Hollywood, Fla., struck the words “bride and groom” from its wedding marketing materials and has two same-sex wedding planners at the ready.
同志婚姻及蜜月产业仍然处于婴儿期。社群市场机构2013年的一项研究发现，同性伴侣举办婚宴的场所多数是餐馆和私人住宅。但是，酒店业已经准备好迎接同性婚礼的热潮。去年，波多黎各别克斯岛的W度假及水疗中心(W Retreat & Spa-Vieques Island)与美国的一家业内领军企业合作，专注于策划合法的同性婚礼。今年，尽管弗罗里达州尚未允许同性结婚，该州好莱坞市的威斯汀外交度假及水疗中心(Westin Diplomat Resort & Spa)在婚礼宣传资料上去掉了“新郎新娘”的措辞，并安排了两名同性婚礼策划师。
As for honeymoons, only about 57 percent of same-sex couples went on one after their ceremony (65 percent of them were women) last year, according to Community Marketing. David Paisley, the company’s senior research director, said the reason for that might be that when a state allows same-sex marriage, couples rush to legally tie the knot yet delay the honeymoon because they haven’t found time to plan it or have already made all their travel plans for the year. Time will tell. Among those who did take a honeymoon, there was no far and away favorite destination, although Hawaii was at the top of the list with 7 percent of couples opting to celebrate there. 
根据社群市场机构的统计，去年只有大约57%的同性伴侣在婚礼后进行蜜月旅行（其中65%是女性）。该公司的高级研究主任大卫·佩斯里(David Paisley)说，原因可能是当一个州通过同性婚姻法案之后，伴侣们会匆匆忙忙地跑过来举行婚礼，将关系合法化，但却会推迟蜜月旅行，因为他们还没来得及计划这件事，或者已经做好了全年的旅行计划。时间会揭示真相。而享受了蜜月旅行的同性伴侣，他们的旅游目的地都不遥远。在他们的旅游胜地清单上，第一个是夏威夷，有7%的伴侣选择到那里庆祝。
Families are another fast-growing segment. More than a decade ago, when a company called R Family Vacations began specializing in cruises for L.G.B.T. families and friends, it was in the vanguard.
家庭游是另一个飞速增长的领域。十多年前，有个名叫R家庭度假(R Family Vacations)的公司开始专营LGBT家庭与亲友的旅游项目，当年相当前卫。
“There has really been a huge change,” said Don Tuthill, the publisher of Passport magazine. “When they did that they were the only one. Now everyone is reaching out for that market.” Although Community Marketing’s research shows that when gay couples have children, finding a child-friendly hotel becomes more important than an L.G.B.T.-friendly hotel.
“那时真的是巨大的变化。”《通行证》杂志的发行人唐·塔希尔(Don Tuthill)说。“当时他们真的是独一份。而现在，谁都想在这个市场分一杯羹。”然而，社群市场的研究结果表明，同性伴侣有了子女之后就会发现，更重要的是寻找儿童友好的酒店，而非LGBT友好的酒店。
In a survey of readers of Curve, a leading lesbian magazine, Orlando was the No. 1 vacation destination for L.G.B.T. families. “It’s safe, it’s accessible, it’s affordable,” said Merryn Johns, the magazine’s editor in chief. “And Orlando has done a lot of outreach lately.”
领先的女同性恋杂志《曲线》(Curve)的读者调查显示，LGBT家庭游的首选度假胜地是奥兰多。“它安全，容易到达，物价也不贵。”该杂志的主编梅琳·约翰斯(Merryn Johns)说。“而且，奥兰多最近做了许多推广。”
Orlando is, in general, extremely popular, according to Community Marketing, despite being in a state that does not allow same-sex marriage. That’s in large part because it has an effective tourism association. The same can be said of Las Vegas.
根据社群市场机构的数据，大体来说，尽管奥兰多所处的佛罗里达州并不允许同性结婚，但它还是深受同志欢迎。在很大程度上要归功于此地才华横溢的旅游协会。同样的情况也适用于拉斯维加斯。
Ms. Johns praised a new spring television commercial from the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority that begins with a man and a woman walking up to a hotel check-in counter together. The desk clerk says he will be with them momentarily, then steps away. While he’s gone, the woman tells her boyfriend that she’s going to freshen up, then leaves. Suddenly, another hotel guest, a man, approaches the counter and stands beside the woman’s boyfriend. A moment later, a different desk clerk appears. She smiles and says: “You gentlemen ready to check in?”
约翰斯女士盛赞了拉斯维加斯风俗与游客管理局今年春季新出的一条电视广告：一对男女走到酒店前台，接待人员说他马上回来，说完就走了。女子告诉男友她要去梳洗一番，说完也走了。忽然，另有一名男性客人来到酒店前台，与那位女子的男友站在一起。片刻之后，另一名接待人员出现了，她含笑问道：“两位先生准备好登记入住了吗？”
“I think if you ask any lesbian of a certain age who has traveled at all, upon check-in they have gotten funny looks,” Ms. Johns said. “And that’s happened to me, and it really is such a turnoff. It boggles the mind that it still happens.”
“我想，随便问一个曾经旅行过的拉拉，只要她们一说住店，工作人员肯定会露出讶异的表情。”约翰斯说。“我也遇到过这种事，真让人扫兴。难以置信，这种事居然还在发生。”
Ms. Johns also appreciated Las Vegas’s “Everyone’s welcome. Even straight people” print and digital campaign, introduced in 2012, because it aimed to make gay and lesbian travelers feel as if they are a majority.
拉斯维加斯2012年纸媒与数码活动的口号“我们欢迎一切游客，哪怕你是异性恋”也让约翰斯女士击节赞叹，因为这句话听起来，感觉同性恋游客成了大多数。
When it comes to hotels, some boutique brands, like Kimpton, have already established themselves in the L.G.B.T. market. Now major hotel groups are working to do the same. Over the last few years Marriott and Hilton have created advertisements with gay and lesbian travelers in mind. “Gay-specific creative is new,” said Mr. Tuthill, who works with brands including Marriott on campaigns that appear in his magazine and elsewhere. An advertisement for the nation’s capital, for instance, shows two young men smiling in the back of a car and the words “Hot dates. Cool city. Washington, DC.”
说到酒店，金普顿(Kimpton)等精品店已经拓展出了LGBT市场。而今，各大酒店集团都在亦步亦趋。在过去的几年中，万豪和希尔顿推出了男同与女同游客为主角的广告。“面向同志的创意很新颖。”塔希尔先生说。他与万豪等品牌在杂志及其他场合展开过合作。例如，在美国首都播出的一条广告中，两名男子在汽车后座喜笑颜开，画外音说：“热烈的约会。酷炫的城市。华盛顿特区。”
Sophisticated brands and locations are evolving beyond images of rainbow flags and shirtless men, Mr. Adams said, creating ads that, while showing same-sex couples, look like the rest of the brand’s advertising. “It’s great to see a couple together or a family together,” he said. “Don’t throw in every logo.”
亚当斯先生说，除了彩虹旗与赤膊男子的形象，那些成熟品牌与店家也发布了许多其他广告。有的广告展示同性情侣，有的广告则像其他酒店品牌一样大众化。“看到同志情侣或全家人在一起，感觉真好。”他说。“但也不至于让每个商标都如此。”
Ms. Johns said people could also do without advertisements showing “supermodels” hugging and clinking glasses. “We can tell they’re not really gay people,” she said.
约翰斯女士说，没有展示“超模”拥抱或者碰杯的广告，人们也很认同。她说：“我们能看出来，他们并不是同性恋。”
One company that has impressed L.G.B.T. travel veterans is Hilton.
还有一个让LBGT旅游达人印象深刻的公司，是希尔顿酒店。
“In the last three years we’ve really increased the emphasis on this,” said Mr. Flack of Hilton Worldwide. The company, which was founded nearly a century ago, is a member of GLAAD and is a sponsor of two large L.G.B.T. events: WorldPride in Toronto and Capital Pride in Washington, D.C., both in June. “A big part of what we do is trying to react to the way the world is evolving and traveling differently,” Mr. Flack said.
“在过去的三年中，我们确实强调了这个领域的工作。”希尔顿全球的弗兰克先生说。该酒店的成立已经有将近一个世纪，它是同性恋者反诋毁联盟(GLAAD)的成员，也是两个大型LGBT盛会的主办人：多伦多同志骄傲节和华盛顿哥伦比亚特区的首都同志骄傲节，二者都在6月份举行。“我们的一大块工作内容就是努力对全球同志游的发展变化做出反应。”弗兰克先生说。
Hilton for the first time this year is moving away from destination and resort photography in its advertising and instead highlighting images of people, including same-sex couples in its L.G.B.T. advertising. And it is expanding its “Stay Hilton. Go Out” L.G.B.T. vacation campaign, which it introduced in 2012. The campaign includes a vacation package (with high-speed Internet and a one-year digital subscription to Out magazine) at more than 460 Hilton Hotels & Resorts and Hilton Grand Vacations properties around the world. The Go Out program also has a landing page on Hilton.com with information about travel and promotions. This summer, the site will include a new feature called Bedtime Stories: interviews with L.G.B.T. tastemakers about their travels. And Hilton’s L.G.B.T. e-newsletter about travel ideas and events, which it began offering bimonthly last year, will now be distributed every month.
今年，希尔顿酒店集团在自己的LGBT广告中，第一次将影像的焦点从旅游胜地和度假村移开，转向度假的人群，包括同性情侣。它对自己2012年提出的LGBT活动“住在希尔顿/出走”进行了扩展。该活动包括全球460多家希尔顿酒店和度假村通用的希尔顿度假套餐，含高速网络和订阅一年的数字杂志《出走》(Out)。“出走”项目在hilton.com网站有一个登录页面，含旅行和优惠信息。今年夏天，该网站会包含一项名叫“睡前故事”(Bedtime Stories)的新内容：LGBT时尚设计师的旅行访谈录。去年，希尔顿集团开始发布关于旅行创意与动态的LGBT新闻邮件，双月一期，现在则是每月一期。
At the same time that brands like Hilton are extending their reach, industry professionals say there continues to be interest in gay-related tours and events, particularly among older travelers who grew up in a time of widespread discrimination.
在希尔顿等品牌扩展业务的同时，业内专家称，同志旅游及活动的利润仍会增长，特别是来自年长的同性恋游客群体，因为他们成长于一个受到普遍歧视的时代。
“I think there’s always going to be a demand for that,” said Ms. Johns, “even though we are seeing progress in equal rights legislation.” That is especially true for people who take only one or two big trips a year or who live in places that are not welcoming. “They want a sure thing,” Ms. Johns said. “They want to know there’s like-minded women, lesbian entertainers.” That’s one reason some readers of Curve like cruises organized by Olivia Travel, Ms. Johns said, because it guarantees the presence of those like-minded travelers, as well as being good value for the money (despite the research figures being bandied about, not all gay travelers have money to spare).
“我想人们对同志游永远有需求。”约翰斯女士说，“尽管我们在平权立法方面取得了进展。”对于那些一年只出游一两次或者生活在不宽容地区的同性恋游客来说，尤其如此。“她们只想万无一失。”约翰斯女士说。“她们想知道，那里是不是真的有一些与自己志趣相投的女同性恋演员。”《曲线》杂志的一些读者之所以喜欢奥莉薇娅旅行社(Olivia Travel)组织的游览活动，原因之一是它能确保女同性恋游客的出行，保证她们的钱花得物有所值（尽管研究数据略有水分，并非所有同志游客的花费都有剩余）。
“Watching companies and destinations bending over backward for gays has been an astounding change,” said Zachary Moses, the director of marketing for HE Travel in Key West, which offers tours and vacations for gay men and lesbians.
“看到各大公司与旅游胜地竭尽全力取悦同志游客，真是一场惊人的改变。”基韦斯特HE旅行社(HE Travel)的市场总监扎克利·摩西(Zachary Moses)说。该公司负责组织面向男同及拉拉的旅游及度假活动。
HE Travel — the result of a merger between Hanns Ebensten Travel, which began leading tours in the 1970s, and Alyson Adventures, founded in the 1990s — has been around in one form or another for more than 40 years. So despite the sea change in the last few years, Mr. Moses is skeptical of companies suddenly trying to tap the L.G.B.T. market.
HE旅行社由汉斯艾本斯坦旅行社（Hanns Ebensten Travel，20世纪70年代开始组织旅游团）与艾莉森公司（Alyson Adventures，建于20世纪90年代）合并而成，以多种形式存在已经有40多年的历史了。因此，尽管在过去的几年中见证了许多巨大的变化，摩西先生对于那些贸然踏入同志游市场的公司，仍然持怀疑态度。
“The thing is, it’s already been tapped,” he said. “Gay and lesbian people have been traveling for all time, and in fact they were some of the first travelers because they were people who didn’t feel accepted in their own communities.”
“问题在于，已经踏进去了。”他说。“男同与女同人群一直都在旅行，事实上，同志游客是最早的一批旅行者，因为他们恰是那些在本地社区感觉无法融入的人。”
Some industry insiders like Mr. Moses are concerned that big international companies are simply paying lip service to gay travelers. “A lot of those prejudices still exist,” he said. “They’re just being hidden,” a process he refers to as gay-washing. “It doesn’t really matter what’s being said,” he added, “it doesn’t always translate on the ground.”
像摩西先生这样的业内人士担心，一些国际大公司对同志游客的态度是口惠而实不至。“很多偏见依然存在，”他说，“只是隐藏了起来。”他把这种处理方式称作同志清洗。“怎么措辞不重要，”他说，“在现场通常不翻译。”
With mainstream brands marketing themselves as L.G.B.T.-friendly, tour operators like HE travel face new challenges.
由于主流的大品牌都在宣扬自己LGBT友好的企业形象，HE旅行社等旅游运营商遭遇了新的挑战。
“It used to be really clear whether a company was gay-friendly or not,” said Mr. Moses. These days, he said it is more difficult to determine who is walking the walk. “We have a lot more to sift through,” he said, adding that when designing tours for HE Travel he chats up staff members at potential hotels and other service providers to suss out how they feel about L.G.B.T. people.
“过去，一个公司究竟是不是同志友好，真的一清二楚。”摩西先生说。而最近几年来，判断谁说话算话却越来越难了。“需要过滤的信息太多。”他说，为HE旅行社设计游览线路时，他需要跟潜在的合作伙伴如酒店或其他服务供应商的工作人员闲谈，试探对方对LGBT人群究竟持有怎样的看法。
In Key West, where Mr. Moses is based, he notes that things are changing. “In just the last two years at least four gay guesthouses have gone ‘all welcome,’” Mr. Moses said, referring to the practice of allowing anyone to check in. “The gay guesthouse, they’re disappearing,” he said.
摩西先生注意到，在他们公司所在地基韦斯特，事情正在起变化。“仅仅在过去的两年中，至少四家同志旅馆宣称‘欢迎所有客人’。”摩西先生说，他指的是酒店在营销活动中欢迎所有人入住。“所谓的同志旅馆正在消失。”
Even so, it seems the need for L.G.B.T. tours and services is not.
即便如此，对LGBT旅游和服务的需求似乎并不会消失。
“We’re mixing more and more, but there is always going to be a need for people to be with their friends and family and community,” said Mr. Tuthill of Passport magazine. “There are issues you encounter that other people don’t deal with.”
“虽然混合的趋势越来越强，但总有些人总是渴望和自己的朋友、亲人或社群在一起。”《通行证》杂志的塔希尔先生说。“某些问题你总会遇到，而其他人群并不需要面对。”
One of those issues is safety, even in places considered gay-friendly — Provincetown, Mass., Boston, Seattle, Palm Springs, Calif., Mexico, Canada, England, Spain, France. 
其中一个就是安全问题，哪怕是在公认同志友好的地方，比如麻省的普罗文斯敦、波士顿、西雅图、加州的棕榈泉、墨西哥、加拿大、英国、西班牙与法国。
Mr. Paisley of Community Marketing recalled walking in San Francisco not too long ago and having someone roll down a car window and yell a gay slur at him. This month, he said a gay friend of his was harassed on the New York City subway.
社群市场机构的佩斯里先生记起不久之前的一天，走在旧金山街头，有人摇下车窗，对着他大声辱骂同性恋。而这个月，一个同性恋朋友在纽约地铁上遭到骚扰。
“This kind of stuff happens to gay people all the time,” he said, “and because of that, safety is really important.” 
“对于同志人群来说，这种事随时都可能遇到，”他说，“正因如此，安全问题格外重要。”
Places like Russia, Egypt and India are now considered too dangerous, Ms. Johns said. Mr. Adams of Passport magazine strives to share with his readers, each of whom travels on average 11 times a year, places that are culturally compelling yet safe. “We’re not going to Brunei anytime soon,” he said, referring to the Southeast Asian country that recently introduced antigay laws.
约翰斯女士说，现在，俄罗斯、埃及和印度等地方被认为过于危险。《通行证》杂志的亚当斯先生尽力与读者分享那些既有迷人文化又很安全的旅游胜地。该杂志的读者平均每年有11场旅行。“最近，不论什么时候，都不要去文莱。”他说，因为这个东南亚国家不久前颁布了反同性恋法律。
To be considered L.G.B.T.-friendly, a destination usually has a local gay community with which visitors can connect, businesses with nondiscrimination polices and diversity training, and an overall welcoming feel.
一般来说，一个LGBT友好的旅游胜地都有本地的同志社群，游客可以与它联系，商家可以接受非歧视政策和多元化培训，整体上有种宽松温暖的氛围。
Sometimes, travelers find this in unexpected places. Bobby Laurie, a California-based flight attendant and a travel correspondent for the Daily Buzz, a nationally syndicated morning show, was surprised at how he felt on a trip to Madison, Wis., where he saw quite a few equality stickers on storefronts. “It’s not like you’re looking for it,” he said. “Subconsciously you see it. It does give you more of a sense of security.”
有时候，游客会在另一些地方与这种氛围不期而遇。来自加州的空乘兼《每日言论》（Daily Buzz，一档全国性的晨间秀）旅行记者波比·劳瑞(Bobby Laurie)发现，那场去往威斯康辛州麦迪逊的旅行让他惊喜。在很多门店，他都看到了平权宣传贴纸。“不用刻意寻找。”他说。“下意识就会看到。这为你带来了更多的安全感。”
At a gay bar and dance club called Plan B, “there weren’t just gay men at the bar,” he said. “There were straight couples dancing on the floor.” He asked some of them why they were hanging out in a gay bar. The response? “Why shouldn’t we?”
在一间名为“备选”(Plan B)的同志酒吧兼舞厅，“酒吧里并不全是同性恋。”他说。“在舞池里跳舞的也有异性情侣。”他问他们为什么要来同志酒吧。你猜他们是什么反应？“为什么不能来？”
“This is how it could be everywhere,” he said. “And it is slowly getting there.”
“各地都会变成这样的，”他说。“慢慢地，都会如此。”