FRANKFURT — Top officials of the European Central Bank offered dueling views over the weekend on how to deal with the risk of a downward price spiral in the eurozone, a sign that internal debate continues ahead of a crucial meeting next week.
法兰克福——周末期间，针对如何应对欧元区物价持续下跌的风险，欧洲央行(European Central Bank)的高级官员提出了不同意见。这表明，在下周的重要会议之前，央行内部的争论仍在继续。
The central bank is widely expected to announce after its next meeting, on Jan. 22, that it will begin buying large volumes of eurozone government bonds to further push down interest rates. Such a program, known as quantitative easing, is akin to printing money and would be similar to the approach used in recent years by the Federal Reserve in the United States.
欧洲央行的下次会议定于1月22日举行。外界广泛希望，央行将在会后宣布即将开始购买大量的欧元区政府债券，以进一步压低利率。这种名为“量化宽松”的政策等同于印钞，类似美联储(Federal Reserve)近年来采用的办法。
The European Central Bank is under intense pressure to interrupt a decline in consumer prices, which could undermine corporate profits and lead to a surge in unemployment.
目前，欧洲央行面临着干预消费物价下跌的巨大压力。消费物价的下跌可能会减少企业利润，并导致失业率攀升。
But in separate interviews in European news media, members of the bank’s Governing Council differed on whether to begin quantitative easing soon, and if so, how to make it work in Europe’s fragmented bond market.
但是，在分别接受不同的欧洲新闻媒体的采访时，央行管理委员会(Governing Council)的成员就以下内容提出了不同意见：是否要立即开始实施量化宽松政策？如果要实施的话，又该如何让它在欧洲支离破碎的债券市场上发挥作用？
Their comments suggest there is still a chance that a decision on the bonds could be delayed, despite nearly overwhelming market expectations that the Governing Council will announce a buying program next week.
他们的意见表明，关于购债的决定仍有可能推迟，尽管市场几乎一致期望，管理委员会将于下周宣布购买债券的计划。
Sabine Lautenschläger, a German member of the bank’s executive board, said in an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel that she did not think conditions were yet grave enough to warrant government bond purchases.
央行执行委员会的德国理事萨宾娜·劳滕施莱格(Sabine Lautenschläger)在接受本国杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)的采访时表示，她并不认为情况已经严重到了需要购买政府债券的地步。
There must be “a threat of exceptional risks’ materializing, and there must be reasonable balance between the benefits of, and risks entailed in, such a program,” Ms. Lautenschläger said. “I do not believe that to be the case at present.”
必须出现“超乎寻常的风险正在变为现实的威胁，而且这种购债计划的好处与风险也必须处于一种合理的平衡状态，”劳滕施莱格说。“我不认为目前是这种情况。”
But Ignazio Visco, the governor of the Italy’s central bank, said in an interview with the German newspaper Welt am Sonntag that there was a threat of deflation and that government bond purchases would be the most effective tool to combat it.
意大利央行行长伊尼亚齐奥·维斯科(Ignazio Visco)在接受德国报纸《星期日世界报》(Welt am Sonntag)的采访时则称，欧洲面临着通货紧缩的威胁，购买政府债券将是对抗这种情况的最有效的工具。
Government bond purchases are “a standard instrument of monetary policy,” Mr. Visco said in the interview published on Sunday. Like all 19 central bank heads in the eurozone, Mr. Visco is a member of the European Central Bank’s 25-member Governing Council, which sets monetary policy. Ms. Lautenschläger and the other five members of the executive board are also on the Governing Council.
购买政府债券是“货币政策的标准工具”，维斯科在周日发表的采访文章中说。与欧元区其他18国的央行行长一样，维斯科是由25个成员组成的欧洲央行管理委员会的一员。该机构负责制定货币政策。劳滕施莱格和执行委员会的其他五名理事也在该管理委员会任职。
Benoît Coeuré, a French member of the bank’s executive board, sounded more favorably disposed to quantitative easing during an interview on Saturday with the broadcaster France 24. He said the central bank has a responsibility to ensure price stability, and to achieve its inflation target of just under 2 percent.
周六，在接受法国24小时(France 24)电视台采访时，欧洲央行执行委员会的法国理事伯努瓦·克莱(Benoît Coeuré)听起来更倾向于支持量化宽松政策。他说，央行有责任保证物价稳定，实现把通胀率保持在略低于2%的目标。
Consumer prices in the eurozone fell at an annual rate of 0.2 percent in December, according to an official estimate published on Wednesday. That heightened fears that the eurozone could already be suffering from deflation, a sustained decline in prices that causes people and companies to delay purchases because they expect prices to fall further. The rate of inflation in the eurozone has been declining for two years, but December was the first month since 2009 that prices actually fell.
上周三，官方公布的统计数据显示，欧元区去年12月的消费物价指数同比下降0.2%。这加剧了人们对欧元区可能已经出现通货紧缩的担忧。通缩是指物价的持续下跌，会导致民众及企业出于物价将会进一步走低的预期而推迟购买行为。欧元区的通货膨胀率已连续两年下降，但12月是自2009年以来物价实际上出现下跌的首个月份。
The central bank has already cut the benchmark interest rate to almost zero, so quantitative easing is the only plausible option left to push up inflation.
欧洲央行已经将基准利率降至接近零的水平，因此量化宽松是剩下的唯一可行的推高通胀的选择。
Mr. Coeuré said that he did not think that the eurozone was in deflation, and said that he did not think that the bank would base policy on a single month of negative inflation. But he acknowledged that the bank was intensely discussing quantitative easing.
克莱表示，他认为欧元区并没有进入通货紧缩状态，而欧洲央行不会仅仅根据一个月的通胀率为负数来制定政策。不过他也承认，央行正在激烈讨论量化宽松的问题。
“I don’t want to prejudge what my colleagues and I will decide on Jan. 22 — it’s too early,” Mr. Coeuré said. “But it’s clear that it’s a subject we are regarding with a lot of attention.”
“我和同事将在1月22日做出决定，我不想做出预先判断，现在还为时过早，”克莱说。“但很明显，我们眼下非常关注这个话题。”
At the same time, Mr. Coeuré acknowledged the complexity of government bond purchases in the eurozone, where there is no asset comparable to the United States Treasury bonds that were purchased by the Fed in its quantitative easing program. The E.C.B. will have to decide how much of each eurozone country’s bonds to buy, a politically perilous task.
与此同时，克莱承认了欧元区政府债券购买计划的复杂性。美联储实行量化宽松政策时会购买本国国债，但欧元区并不存在能与美国国债相提并论的资产。欧洲央行将需要决定对每个欧元区国家的债券的购买量，而这是一个充满政治风险的任务。
Mr. Coeuré said that it was important to win the support of as many members of the Governing Council as possible. The bank has taken time to discuss the issue in order to ensure that the concerns of all members of the council are taken into account, he said. His statement raised the possibility that the bank could delay a decision on quantitative easing to allow more time to bring dissenters like Ms. Lautenschläger on board.
克莱称，要获得尽可能多的管理委员会成员的支持，是非常重要的。他表示，欧洲央行在花时间讨论该问题，以确保管理委员会所有成员的担忧都被考虑在内。他的此番表态提高了欧洲央行推迟在量化宽松方面做出决策的可能性。这种推迟可以留下更多时间来争取劳滕施拉格尔等反对者的支持。
Quantitative easing “should be an instrument to create confidence, to unite Europe, not to divide Europe,” Mr. Coeuré said.
克莱表示，量化宽松“应该是一个建立信心、凝聚欧洲的手段，而不应让欧洲产生分歧。”
While Ms. Lautenschläger expressed opposition to government bond purchases now, she did not rule out supporting that option in the future. That could be taken as a signal that German members of the Governing Council are softening their opposition to quantitative easing, a prospect that is very unpopular in Germany.
虽然劳滕施拉格尔现在反对购买政府债券，但她并没有排除未来支持这一选择的可能。这可以被视作一个信号，说明管理委员会的德国成员对量化宽松政策的反对态度正在松动。在德国，这一政策的前景非常不被看好。