BRUSSELS — Greece and its European creditors announced an agreement here Monday that aims to resolve the country's debt crisis and keep it in the eurozone, but that will require further budgetary belt-tightening that Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras could have trouble selling back in Athens.
布鲁塞尔——希腊及其欧洲债权人周一在此地宣布达成一项协议，协议达到了解决希腊债务危机、将该国留在欧元区的目的，但需要进一步的财政紧缩，这让亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)总理在说服雅典接受协议上可能会有麻烦。
The agreement does not guarantee that Greece will receive its third bailout in five years. But it does allow the start of detailed negotiations on a new assistance package for Greece. One open question is whether the deal gives enough confidence to the European Central Bank to let it continue channeling sorely needed emergency funding to Greek banks, which have been hollowed out by a long economic slump and the withdrawal of billions of euros in recent months by account holders.
协议并不保证希腊将得到五年中的第三次救助，但将允许就向希腊提供新的一揽子援助计划的具体问题展开谈判。一个有待确定的问题是，协议是否给予欧洲央行足够的信心，使其继续让急需的应急资金流入希腊银行。长期的经济低迷，加上储户在近几个月中提取了上百亿欧元的存款，造成了希腊银行的资金短缺。
The tough terms, demanded by Germany and others, are meant to balance Greece's demands for a loan repayment system that will not keep it mired in recession and austerity budgets, against creditors' insistence that loans worth tens of billions of euros not be money wasted. Testy negotiations and Greece's inability to live up to the promises made in its previous bailouts had cast a shadow of distrust over the weekend's discussions.
德国和其他国家要求的强硬条款是为了在双方的条件中找到平衡，一方面是希腊对偿还借贷体制不应让其陷入长期衰退和财政紧缩的要求，另一方面是债权人对价值数百亿欧元的贷款不能被浪费的坚持。艰难的谈判、加上希腊未能履行其对先前救助做出的承诺，为周末的协商投下了不信任的阴影。
An accord would end five months of bitter negotiations that raised concerns that Greece would be the first country to be forced out of the euro currency union — a development that proponents of European unity had sought desperately to avoid.
达成协议可能会让五个月的不愉快谈判告一段落，谈判曾让人们担心希腊会成为第一个被迫退出欧元货币联盟的国家，这是支持欧洲团结的人不惜一切要避免的情况。
“The advantages far outweigh the disadvantages,” Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany told a news conference, explaining her decision to accept the deal and recommend that the German Parliament also grant its approval.
“利远大于弊，”德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)在新闻发布会上解释自己决定接受协议时说，她也建议德国议会批准协议。
“The country which we help has shown a willingness and readiness to carry out reforms,” said Merkel, referring to Greece.
“我们帮助的国家已表示愿意和准备进行改革，”默克尔说，她指的是希腊。
The total commitment of money has not been disclosed. But a document by the eurozone leaders noted that experts had estimated that Greece might need from 82 billion to 86 billion euros more — $91 billion to $96 billion — to shore up its economy, rebuild its banks and meet its debt obligations over the next three years. The document said Greece and its creditors should seek to “reduce that financing envelope,” if possible.
协议所承诺的贷款总额尚未披露。但是，欧元区领导人的一份文件指出，据专家估计，希腊可能需要820亿至860亿欧元（约合5600亿至5870亿元人民币）的追加贷款，以支撑其经济、重建其银行，及在未来三年内履行其偿贷责任。该文件表示，希腊及其债权人应该寻求“降低筹措资金的规模”，如果可能的话。
As part of Greece's commitments, Merkel said, a fund will be created to use the proceeds from selling off assets owned by the Greek government to help pay down the country's debt. That fund would be “to the tune of” 50 billion euros, she said.
默克尔表示，作为希腊承诺的一部分，希腊政府将用出售国有资产所得成立一个基金，用来帮助偿还该国的债务。她说，这笔基金“总额达”500亿欧元。
Greece will also be required to seek assistance from the International Monetary Fund and to agree to let the organization continue to monitor the country's adherence to its bailout commitments. The Greek government had resisted a continued role for the IMF, seeing the fund's involvement as unwanted meddling.
希腊还将需向国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）寻求援助，并同意让该组织继续监督希腊遵守其救助承诺的情况。希腊政府曾拒绝让IMF在这方面继续起作用，把该组织的参与看作是不必要的干预。
The Greek Parliament will also be required to approve the terms of the agreement “without delay,” according to the document released Monday. One of the sticking points in the negotiations over the weekend had been a demand that the Parliament sign off on any deal by Wednesday, but that requirement appears to have been relaxed.
根据周一公布的文件，还将要求希腊议会“毫不迟延地”批准协议条款。周末谈判中的一个症结一直是要求希腊议会在周三之前批准任何可能的协议，但这一要求似乎有所放松。
During the marathon negotiation session, Tsipras, the Greek prime minister, struggled to reach compromises on economic overhauls that the creditors demanded but that his left-wing government may find difficult to sell at home after Greek voters overwhelmingly rejected softer terms in a referendum just a week ago.
在这个马拉松式谈判期间，希腊总理齐普拉斯力图在债权人要求的经济改革问题上达成妥协，希腊选民在一周前的全民公决中以压倒多数否决了更为柔和的条件之后，齐普拉斯的左翼政府可能会在说服国内接受新条件上遇到困难。
The agreement will call for Greece to raise taxes in some cases, pare pension benefits and take various other measures meant to reduce what critics see as too much bureaucracy and too many market protections that keep the Greek economy from operating efficiently.
协议将要求希腊提高某些税收、削减养老金，并采取各种其他措施，以减少在批评者看来是太多的官僚机构和过多的市场保护，这些都让希腊经济不能高效运行。
A bleary-eyed Tsipras, speaking to reporters here Monday, tried to put a positive spin on what might be seen as an almost total capitulation by Athens to creditors' demands for tough austerity. He said that the threat of Greece being forced out of the eurozone had been avoided and a promise of debt relief and growth funds had been secured.
面带倦容的齐普拉斯周一在这里对记者讲话时，试图掩饰可能被看作是雅典对债权人的严格紧缩要求几乎彻底投降的做法。他说，希腊被迫离开欧元区的威胁已被避免，债务减免的承诺以及促进经济增长的基金已得到确保。
“We gave a tough battle for six months and fought until the end in order to achieve the best we could, a deal that would allow Greece to stand on its feet,” Tsipras said. “We faced hard decisions, tough dilemmas,” he said, adding that the Greek authorities finally “assumed the responsibility of averting the extremist ambitions of the most conservative circles in Europe.”
“我们打了一场六个月的硬仗，坚持到了最后，尽了我们的所能得到了能让希腊站稳脚跟的协议，”齐普拉斯说。“我们面临了艰难的决策、艰难的困境，”他说，并补充表示，希腊当局最终“为避免让欧洲最保守圈子里的极端主义野心成为现实承担了责任”。