PARIS — Consumer prices in the euro zone barely increased last month, raising fears of deflation and putting pressure on the European Central Bank to take further action.
巴黎——上个月，欧元区的消费价格几乎没有增加，人们由此担心会出现通货紧缩的局面，欧洲央行(European Central Bank)也因此面临着采取进一步行动的压力。
Prices in the 17 European Union member states that were using the euro in 2013 rose in December at an annual rate of only 0.8 percent, Eurostat, the European Union statistical agency, reported on Tuesday in a first estimate that will be subject to revision in the weeks ahead. The December figure, which did not include Latvia since it adopted the euro on Jan. 1, was slightly lower than the 0.9 percent annual inflation rate for November.
欧盟(European Union)统计机构欧洲统计局(Eurostat)周二在初步估计中称，2013年17个使用欧元的欧盟成员国去年12月的物价只同比增长了0.8%，他们将在未来几周内对这个数据做出修订。由于拉脱维亚从今年1月1日起开始使用欧元，所以12月的统计数据并没有把拉脱维亚包括在内；该数据比11月的年通货膨胀率0.9%略低。
The European Central Bank seeks to keep price growth steady at about 2 percent. The situation now, in which the rate of inflation is falling, is known as disinflation. If the situation continues in this direction, Europe could face outright deflation — a debilitating economic condition in which prices actually decline across the board.
欧洲央行希望能把物价增长的幅度稳定在2%左右。目前通胀率正在降低的现象被称作反通货膨胀。如果这种情况持续下去，欧洲就要面临真正的通货紧缩了，届时经济会变得非常脆弱，物价也会全面下跌。
As long as hints of deflation remain, the E.C.B. faces a difficult challenge.
只要通货紧缩的征兆仍然存在，欧洲央行就面临着艰难的挑战。
Economists do not, for the most part, expect the E.C.B. to take action when its Governing Council meets on Thursday in Frankfurt. But the issue is certain to figure prominently in discussions between the bank’s president, Mario Draghi, and his colleagues.
多数经济学家并不指望欧洲央行会在其管理委员会(Governing Council)周四在法兰克福开会时采取措施。但是，此事必然会成为央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)和其同事谈论的要点。
Most worrisome to economists assessing the data released on Tuesday is the “core” inflation rate, which strips out volatile food and energy prices. It dipped to 0.7 percent — a record low since the advent of the euro currency. The core number for December was equivalent to the broader, overall figure for October that led the E.C.B. to cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 0.25 percent, down from 0.5 percent.
在评估周二发布的数据时，最让经济学家们担心的是的“核心”通胀率，它没有将多变的食物和能源价格计算在内。这个比率降到了0.7%，是自有欧元以来的历史最低值。12月的核心数字与范围更广的数字大致相同，10月的整体数字促使央行把基准利率从0.5%降到了史上最低的0.25%。
Clemente De Lucia, an economist at BNP Paribas, said on Tuesday that the December consumer price data might have been affected by a change in the way Germany calculated its inflation, so another month or two might be needed to be certain of the trend.
法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)经济师克莱门特·德卢西亚(Clemente De Lucia)周二表示，12月的消费价格数据可能因为德国改变了其通胀率的计算方式而受到了影响，所以还需要一两个月的时间才能确定具体走向。
“Yet, the level of inflation remains dangerously low,” he wrote in a note. “Survey data show that the recovery is gaining some momentum. Yet its pace will remain rather low and it needs to be sustained by policy maker actions.”
“然而，通胀率仍然处于危险的低水平，”他在材料中写道。“调查数据显示，经济势头正在恢复。但恢复速度仍然很慢，而且还需要政策制定者的行动予以支持。”
Data for all of the euro zone members is not yet available, but there is significant variation in price trends within the zone. Germany, for example, posted inflation of 1.2 percent in December. But Cyprus, hammered by the collapse of its financial industry, is already experiencing deflation, as prices slipped 2.3 percent in December.
目前还无法拿到所有欧元区成员国的相关数据，但是区域内的物价趋势呈现出了巨大差异。例如，德国发布的12月通胀率为1.2%。但是，因为金融业崩溃而受到重创的塞浦路斯已经开始通货紧缩，它12月的物价下跌了2.3%。
Spain’s consumer prices rose just 0.3 percent, while Italy’s rose only 0.2 percent, as those two countries’ troubled economies teetered near a deflationary cliff.
陷入困境的西班牙和意大利经济正在向着通货紧缩的悬崖步步靠近，两国的消费价格分别只增加了0.3%和0.2%。
Deflation would only add to the broader economic malaise in the region, by hurting corporate profits and by leading consumers to delay purchases in anticipation of better deals in the future. It would also weigh heavily on borrowers, making loan repayments more expensive in real terms — a particular danger for Europe’s already fragile financial sector.
通货紧缩只会让该地区的经济困境变得更加糟糕，因为这样会使企业利润受损，消费者也会因为预计会有更合算的交易而推迟购物。在扣除物价因素的情况下，通货紧缩还会提高贷款的偿还成本，给借贷者带来巨大影响——这对欧洲已经比较脆弱的金融领域来说尤其危险。