FRANKFURT — The European Central Bank is ready to take decisive action to keep Europe’s tentative recovery afloat, the bank’s president, Mario Draghi, said on Thursday after the bank left interest rates unchanged at a record low.
法兰克福——周四，欧洲中央银行任由利率维持在创纪录的低水平，央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)随后表示，央行准备采取决定性的行动，把欧洲初现曙光的经济复苏局面延续下去。
After the rates announcement, Mr. Draghi said at a news conference here that the central bank was “ready to consider all available instruments” to address either further weakness in consumer prices or increases in short-term rates that could put stress on banks. He did not, however, specify what tools he would use.
利率宣布之后，德拉吉在本地的一次新闻发布会上表示，央行“考虑动用所有可用工具”来应对消费价格进一步疲软或短期利率增高的局面，后一种局面会增加银行的压力。不过，他没有具体说明要用什么工具。
The central bank’s Governing Council, which sets monetary policy for the 18-nation euro zone, surprised the market in November by cutting its benchmark rate to 0.25 percent, a record low, from 0.5 percent.
去年11月，负责给欧元区18个成员国设定货币政策的央行管理委员会(Governing Council)把基准利率从0.5%降到了0.25%的历史新低位，令市场大跌眼镜。
Economists had not expected any further action on Thursday, but they said there was a significant chance the central bank would act again in the coming months to guard against an outright decline in prices. The fear is that low inflation could turn into deflation, a widespread and sustained fall in prices that can be economically debilitating and difficult to reverse.
经济学家未能料到央行会在周四采取任何进一步行动，但他们表示，央行很可能会在未来数月再次采取行动，防止价格彻底下跌。外界的担忧是，低通胀可能会转变成通缩，后者是指广泛蔓延的价格持续下跌，它有可能削弱经济，而且难以扭转。
Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING Bank in Brussels, said the central bank wanted to be certain that lenders did not face short-term funding pressures over the course of this year, when they will undergo tests of their financial soundness as part of the central bank’s new supervisory role over the euro zone’s biggest banks. The central bank will be balancing those concerns against various signals that the zone’s financial and economic crisis may finally be ending.
位于布鲁塞尔的荷兰国际集团(ING Bank)经济学家卡斯滕·布尔泽斯基(Carsten Brzeski)说，央行希望能确定，各出借机构不会在今年年内面临短期筹资压力，在此期间，它们将经受财务稳健性的考验，这是央行对欧元区最大的一些银行的新监管职能之一。多种迹象显示，欧元区的金融危机和经济危机也许正在最终走向终结，央行会针对这一背景权衡前述顾虑。
On Thursday, the optimists’ case was reinforced by news of a rebound in German industrial production in November and a report from the European Commission showing that businesses and consumers were more confident in December.
周四，受德国工业生产在去年11月出现反弹的消息影响，再加上欧盟委员会(European Commission)的报告显示企业和消费者的信心在去年12月有所增强，人们有了更多的乐观理由。
There were also more promising signs in the bond market, where Spain tapped investors for the first time this year, meeting with solid demand and selling about $7.2 billion of debt at favorable rates. Spain’s 10-year yields fell to 3.75 percent, the lowest level in four years.
债券市场也出现了较为乐观的信号，西班牙找到了今年的第一批投资者，在证券市场看到了坚实的需求，以优惠利率售出了约72亿美元（约合435亿元人民币）债券。西班牙10年期债券的收益跌到了3.75%，是过去四年里的最低水平。
Investors also showed strong interest in an offering of Portuguese debt, as an improved economic outlook makes buyers willing to accept somewhat lower — though still attractive — interest rates on bonds from euro zone countries they had been leery of in recent years. Earlier this week, Ireland, which required a bailout in 2010, also carried out a successful bond auction.
投资者还对葡萄牙发行的债券显示出了浓厚的兴趣，原因是经济前景的改观让买家愿意接受欧元区国家提供的不失诱人却略微偏低的债券利率。近些年，他们一直对偏低的债券利率怀有顾虑。本周早些时候，曾在2010年要求救援的爱尔兰也搞了一次成功的债券拍卖。
Alternately, in the last month, short-term money market rates, which provide cheap loans to and between banks, spiked, causing some concern, though the rates have since declined.
此外，上月短期货币市场利率飙升，引发一定程度的担忧，不过利率已回跌。短期货币市场向银行以及银行间提供低利率贷款。
Mr. Draghi, asked if the euro crisis was over, was guarded. “The recovery is there, but it’s fragile,” he said. “We want to see confidence staying for a relatively long time before we declare victory.”
被问及欧元危机是否已结束时，德拉吉态度谨慎。“经济正在复苏，只是很脆弱，”他说，“我们希望看到这样的信心保持较长的一段时间，然后才宣布成功。”
In Britain, the Bank of England left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent, where it has been since March 2009, as the British economy continued its own slow recovery.
在英国，鉴于英国经济的复苏依然很缓慢，英格兰银行(Bank of England)让基准利率保持在0.5%的历史低位。自2009年3月以来，英国基准利率一直保持在这个水平。
Britain’s central bank also left its bond-purchasing program unchanged. The British economy continued to recover toward the end of last year and fewer people are out of work, but headwinds persist.
同时，英国央行对自己的债券购买计划也未作调整。去年年底，英国经济仍在复苏，目前的失业者人数也比以前少，但不利因素依然存在。
Also this week, Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics agency, reported that the euro zone inflation rate fell to 0.8 percent in December. That is far below the central bank’s target of just under 2 percent. And it is low enough to raise fears that Europe could be on the verge of deflation.
同在本周，欧盟(European Union)统计机构欧洲统计局(Eurostat)通报称，欧元区的通货膨胀率在12月跌至0.8%。这一数字远低于欧洲央行略低于2%的目标。而且，这么低的通货膨胀率足以让人们担忧，欧洲可能处在了通货紧缩的边缘。
Mr. Draghi has recently warned about the danger of an inflation rate that becomes entrenched below 1 percent, creating the sort of situation that caused Japan’s “lost decade” of poor growth and economic pain.
德拉吉最近警告称，一直保持在1%以下的通货膨胀率会带来危险，引发导致日本出现“失去的十年”的那种情况。在那十年里，日本增长缓慢，经济低迷。
With the region’s unemployment rate stuck at 12.1 percent since last April, the pressure may rise on the central bank to take action sooner or later. Mr. Draghi acknowledged on Thursday that a further slowing of inflation or higher money-market rates could be triggers for further moves by the central bank.
鉴于欧元区失业率自去年4月以来一直保持在12.1%的水平，欧洲央行会面临更大的压力，迟早需要采取措施。德拉吉周四承认，通货膨胀率的进一步下跌，或是货币市场利率的增加，都可能促使央行采取进一步行动。
“The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the downside,” he said.
“欧元区经济前景面临的风险依然在减小，”他说。
Marie Diron, an economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young, predicted that the questions of deflation and the divergence within the euro zone, in which businesses in weaker member states must pay more for credit, would dominate the central bank’s thinking in the next few months.
为咨询公司安永(Ernst & Young)担任顾问的经济学家玛丽·迪荣(Marie Diron)预测，在接下来的几个月里，通货紧缩问题和欧元区内部的差异将是央行主要考虑的问题。在欧元区，经济较为疲软的成员国的企业必须为贷款付出更高的利息。
There is “a risk that the euro zone as a whole slides into a protracted period of falling prices,” Ms. Diron wrote in a research note. “While we do not think that the euro zone will fall into deflation, this risk calls for strong pre-emptive action by the E.C.B.”
现在有“一种风险，即欧元区整体滑入一个持久的价格下跌期，”迪荣在一份研究报告中写道，“我们虽然认为欧元区不会陷入通货紧缩，但这个风险要求欧洲央行采取强有力的预防措施。”