When McDonald’s opened its first restaurant in China in the early 1990s, it did not turn to local suppliers for meat, which most likely would have been cheaper. Instead, it relied on its longtime partner the OSI Group, which had been linked to the fast-food titan ever since Ray Kroc, the McDonald’s founder, in the 1950s tapped the Chicago butcher Otto & Sons to provide consistent, reliable meats to his expanding empire.
20世纪90年代，麦当劳(McDonald’s)在中国的第一家餐厅开张时，没有从当地供应商那里采购肉类食材，而是继续依靠其长期合作伙伴欧喜集团（OSI Group，以下简称欧喜）的供应，虽然这样做的成本几乎肯定会高一些。自从上世纪50年代，芝加哥屠宰商奥托父子公司（Otto & Sons，欧喜的前身）与麦当劳的创始人雷·克罗克(Ray Kroc)合作，为他不断扩张的餐饮帝国供应稳定可靠的肉类食材以来，欧喜就和这个快餐巨头结下了不解之缘。
As McDonald’s grew, so did OSI, quietly developing a sterling reputation that attracted many of the largest global restaurant chains, including KFC, Burger King and the Papa John’s pizza chain. The company’s focus on food safety was one of its selling points.
随着麦当劳的发展壮大，欧喜也默默打造起一块金字招牌，吸引了肯德基(KFC)、汉堡王(Burger King)和棒约翰披萨(Papa John’s)连锁店等众多全球连锁餐饮巨头纷纷与它合作。而对食品安全的重视，正是欧喜的卖点之一。
“As a private company in a foreign country, we’re setting an international standard for best practices in food safety,” Brady Sidwell, vice president for corporate development and strategy for OSI’s Asia Pacific operations, wrote in a blog post last fall for the Graduate School of Management at the University of California, Davis.
“作为一家境外私营公司，我们正在为食品安全领域的最佳做法制定一个国际化的标准，”去年秋天，在为加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)的管理研究生院写的一篇博客文章中，欧喜亚太区企业发展及战略业务副总裁布雷迪·西德维尔(Brady Sidwell)写道。
Eight months later, OSI is caught up in a messy, very public food safety scandal in China. A television station there broadcast a program in late July accusing employees in its Shanghai plant of doctoring labels to extend expiration dates on chicken and beef products and showing workers scooping up meat that had fallen on the ground and putting it back on conveyor belts for processing.
八个月后，欧喜在中国卷入了一桩麻烦的、曝光度极高的食品安全丑闻。中国的一家电视台在7月下旬播出的节目中指责欧喜上海工厂的员工篡改标签，延长鸡肉和牛肉制品的到期时间，而且还显示工人把落到地面上的食品捡起来，直接放回到加工传送带上。
It was a rare black mark for OSI, one of the top American meat producers, with more than $6 billion in sales and about 20,000 employees in dozens of processing plants in 17 countries.
欧喜是美国顶尖肉类生产商之一，年销售额超过60亿美元，在17个国家的数十个加工厂拥有约2万名员工，对它来说，这样的污点很是罕见。
“It was definitely a head scratcher to me,” said Adam Aronson, chief executive of Arrowsight, which provides remote video auditing of OSI plants in the United States. “They spend a lot of money on food safety systems, more than most others.”
“我肯定会觉得迷惑不解，”Arrowsight的首席执行官亚当·阿伦森(Adam Aronson)说，该公司对欧喜在美国的加工厂进行远程视频稽核。“欧喜在食品安全体系上花了不少钱，比大多数其他公司都多。”
That OSI — which other suppliers have looked to as a model — is dealing with these issues speaks to the broader weaknesses in the Chinese food safety system. After a series of food safety scandals in recent years, regulators repeatedly have promised to tighten food safety standards only to have another problem arise.
被其他供应商视为标杆的欧喜，却在处理这样的问题，这显示了中国食品安全系统中更加广泛存在的薄弱环节。近年来，中国出现了一系列的食品安全丑闻，监管部门一再承诺将收紧食品安全标准，结果却总是会有另一个问题出现。
The country is making strides. Last month, the University of California, Davis and the Northwest Agricultural and Forestry University in Shaanxi Province started laying the groundwork for establishing a joint research center for food safety in China. Roger Beachy, executive director of the U.C. Davis World Food Center, said the Chinese government had made food safety a top priority, particularly as it looked for consistent supplies to feed its rising middle class.
中国正在大步朝前地努力。上个月，加州大学戴维斯分校和陕西省的西北农林科技大学开始着手进行一些基础工作，准备在中国建立一个食品安全联合研究中心。罗杰·比奇(Roger Beachy)是加州大学戴维斯分校世界粮食中心(Davis World Food Center)执行主任，他说，中国政府把食品安全视为重中之重，特别是现在，中国正在努力为其崛起的中产阶级寻找质量稳定的食品。
But China is also playing catch-up to more developed nations — and on a much grander scale. “Companies have grown so fast, but the rate of growth hasn’t been met with equally robust systems for training and educating the work force,” Mr. Beachy said.
但中国也正在一个远远更大的规模上，追赶那些更发达的国家。“公司发展得非常快，但员工队伍的培训和教育却比较薄弱，跟不上公司的发展速度，”比奇说。
OSI said in a statement that what had happened at the Shanghai facility was “terribly wrong” and “completely unacceptable.” The company has reassigned executives in its China operations and started an investigation into the matter. It has also promised to bolster its systems. OSI has reached out to Arrowsight to help improve its processes in China.
欧喜在一份声明中说，其上海工厂发生的事情“非常不对”，“完全不能接受”。该公司已重新为其在华业务指派高管，并开始着手调查此事。它还承诺要改进系统。欧喜已经联系Arrowsight来帮助改善其在中国的流程。
“We will bear the responsibility of these missteps and will make sure that they never happen again,” OSI said. The company declined to comment further.
“我们将为这些错误承担起责任，将确保将来不会再发生这样的事情，”欧喜说。该公司拒绝进一步置评。
Although the company had been in China for two decades, OSI embarked on a $400 million rapid expansion plan in 2011 that included three new poultry production and processing facilities and additional capacity at its Shanghai and Beijing plants. “The goal was to completely recreate the U.S. system — from feeding and watering regimes down to the exact rate of air flow and size and placement of windows in the poultry houses — but to make it locally relevant,” according to a 2013 Harvard Business School case study about OSI’s China business by Prof. David E. Bell.
在中国开展业务20年后，2011年，欧喜启动了一个4亿美元的快速扩张计划，其中包括新建家禽生产和处理厂三个，增加其上海和北京工厂的产能。“目标是完全复制美国的系统——从喂食、喂水，到空气流动速度和鸡舍窗户的位置及大小——但又能适应本地状况，”戴维·E·贝尔(David E. Bell)教授在2013年哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)关于欧喜中国业务的案例研究中写道。
At the three new facilities, the company used a so-called vertically integrated model, giving OSI greater control over its product, from the selection of breeding birds to packaging for shipment. “For companies that have absolute raw material control, they get top priority and have a selling point around food safety,” Dennis Zhang, general manager of Husi Foods, OSI’s Chinese operation, told The National Provisioner, a trade publication.
在这三座新厂中，该公司使用了所谓的垂直整合模型，让欧喜集团能更好地控制它的产品，从饲养禽只的选择一直到进行包装准备配送。“能够绝对控制原材料的企业，能够得到最高的重视，也有食品安全的卖点，”欧喜集团旗下的中国公司福喜食品(Husi Foods)总经理丹尼斯·张(Dennis Zhang)对行业出版物《全国食品》(The National Provisioner)表示。
But it also posed a new challenge for its bottom line. McDonald’s and KFC wanted to buy only the dark meat that Chinese consumers demand, which meant OSI was saddled with finding new customers for the rest of the bird, around 80 percent of it.
然而这对利润也构成了新的挑战。麦当劳和肯德基只想购买中国消费者需要的深色肉（主要为鸡腿肉——译注），这就意味着欧喜集团必须为剩余的禽类产品（约占80%）寻找新客户。
OSI’s strategy in China seems to have become a standard for other foreign food companies setting up shop.
欧喜在中国的战略，似乎成为了其他外国食品企业抢滩中国市场时的标准做法。
Last year, Tyson, the world’s largest meat-processing business, began adopting a similar strategy for its poultry business in China, which started in 2001. And Nestlé, which is facing a lawsuit over pet treats containing ingredients from China and sold under the Waggin’ Train and Canyon Creek Ranch brands, said this year that it was moving to a single supplier for raw materials sourced in China.
去年，全世界最大的肉类加工企业泰森食品(Tyson)对其始于2001年的中国禽类业务采取了相同的做法。雀巢(Nestlé)正在因为含有来自中国的原料的宠物食品而应对诉讼，这些宠物食品是以Waggin’ Train和Canyon Creek Ranch的品牌出售的。雀巢公司今年表示，在中国要逐渐过渡到从一家单一的供应商采购原材料。
Dan Fogleman, a spokesman for Tyson, said in an email that in addition to Chinese government oversight, the company deployed “dozens” of food safety and quality assurance workers in its facilities to verify compliance with its standards and existing regulations. Those workers do not report to local management but rather directly to corporate headquarters in Arkansas.
泰森食品发言人丹·弗格曼(Dan Fogleman)在一封电子邮件中说，除了中国政府的监管之外，这家公司还在工厂中设置了“数十个”食品安全和质量保障的岗位，来检验是否符合其标准和现行的法规。从事这些岗位的人员，不向本地的管理层负责，而是直接向阿肯色州的公司总部负责。
“This independence ensures that their function is dedicated solely to food safety and quality monitoring, rather than any financial goals,” Mr. Fogleman wrote.
弗格曼写道，“这种独立性确保了他们的职能只针对食品安全和质量监督，而不是任何经济目标。”
OSI also passed muster with the United States government. The Shanghai plant was inspected by the Agriculture Department in 2004 and 2010 — and given a clean bill of health both times. “The sanitary conditions and general operations of the establishment currently meet FSIS’s requirements and appear to be in compliance with PRC regulatory requirements,” the audit team wrote, referring to the People’s Republic of China.
欧喜也满足了美国政府的标准，它在上海的工厂在2004年和2010年接受了美国农业部(Agriculture Department)的检查，两次都结果良好。审核团队在报告中写道，“工厂的卫生条件和整体运行目前满足食品安全与检查局(FSIS)的要求，似乎也符合中华人民共和国的监管要求。”
Experts in food safety and plant operations say, however, that even the most rigorous protocols and standards can be undermined by culture, particularly at a fast-growing company — OSI’s revenues doubled between 2011 and 2013 — in a country where high monthly turnover of factory workers is not uncommon.
然而，食品安全和工厂经营方面的专家表示，即使是最严格的规程和标准，可能也会受到文化的破坏，尤其是在一家快速增长的企业——在2011年到2013年之间，欧喜的营收翻了一番——而且所在的这个国家，工厂工人每月都会大量流动的情况并不少见。
“The average Chinese factory worker comes from someplace where food has likely been scarce and picking up a piece of meat that has dropped on the floor and eating would not be unusual — it’s not unusual for us to drop food on the floor and anyway eat it,” said Andy Tsay, a professor of operations management at Santa Clara University who was one of the authors of a paper on recalls of Chinese made products in 2007.
“普通的中国工厂工人，可能来自某个食品短缺的地方，把一块掉在地板上的肉捡起来吃，可能并不奇怪。肉掉到地板上，我们还是拿起来吃，也不是很少见的事情，”圣克拉拉大学(Santa Clara University)经营管理教授蔡安达(Andy Tsay)说。他曾在2007年与人合撰了一篇论文，研究中国制造商品的召回问题。
Steve Gruler, chief executive of Global Quality Consultants, a firm that provides risk management advice to a variety of companies, recalled visiting a grain elevator in China where workers were unloading grain onto trucks. “A plume of dust comes from under the door of the elevator and rises up over the truck,” Mr. Gruler said. “Our eyes got about as big as saucers.”
全球质量咨询公司(Global Quality Consultants)为多种行业的企业提供风险管理咨询。该公司CEO史蒂夫·格鲁勒(Steve Gruler)回忆起了他到中国视察时见到的一个运送谷物的升降机，当时工人们正在把谷物卸到卡车上。“一缕扬尘从升降机的门下面飘出来，一直升腾到卡车上，”格鲁勒说。“我们的眼睛当时瞪得碗一样大。”