LONDON — It may seem bizarre that two far-right, nationalist politicians — Marine Le Pen of France and Geert Wilders of the Netherlands — have reached across borders to form a Pan-European group dedicated to weakening the European Union. Their aim is a transnational political alliance that would compete in the May elections for the European Parliament; once in power, they would cooperate to try to rein in the power of Brussels.
伦敦——两位极右翼的民族主义政客——法国的马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)和荷兰的海尔特·维尔德斯(Geert Wilders)——已跨越国界，形成了一个意图削弱欧盟力量的泛欧洲组织，这或许看上颇为出人意料。他们的目的是形成一个跨国的政治联盟，可以在5月的欧洲议会(European Parliament)选举中参与竞争；一旦得权，他们将共同努力来抑制布鲁塞尔的权力。
Are these politicians, who share an opposition to immigration and a skepticism about the free flow of labor and capital across the Continent, simply hypocritical opportunists, as many Europeans of the left believe? Perhaps.
这些政客都反对移民，质疑欧洲大陆劳动力和资金的跨国自由流动。他们真的只是许多左翼欧洲人口中的虚伪的机会主义者吗？或许是。
But in fact, since the early 20th century, Europe’s far-right nationalists have often united in search of an “other” to oppose, exclude, resist, restrict or oppress — historically, minorities like Jews, homosexuals, the disabled, Roma, Marxists and, more recently, Arabs, Africans and Asians. What emerged after World War I was a philosophy that could be called Euro-fascist. The most extreme proponents, of course, were the Nazis: Notwithstanding their doctrine of racial supremacy, even they formed alliances with Mussolini’s Italy and the militarists of Japan and found keen fascist collaborators in nations they invaded.
但事实上，从20世纪早期开始，欧洲的极右翼民族主义者就时常会联合起来，寻找“其他”目标来反对、排除、抵制、限制或压制——从历史上来看，这包括了犹太人、同性恋、残疾人、罗姆人(Roma)、马克思主义者等少数族群，而最近又包括了阿拉伯人、非洲人和亚洲人。第一次世界大战以后浮现的一种哲学可被称为欧洲法西斯主义。最极端的倡导者当然就是纳粹：尽管他们主张种族优越原则，他们还是会与墨索里尼(Mussolini)统治的意大利和日本的军国主义者组成联盟，还在他们所侵略的国家找到了狂热的法西斯主义合作者。
This vision did not die with the end of World War II. Transnational links among right-wing parties, based on common fears of minorities and immigrants, endured. The right-wingers, while speaking different languages, borrowed ideals, strategies, slogans and theorists from one another. The National Front in France, founded in 1972 by Ms. Le Pen’s father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, imitated the symbol and political tactics of the original neo-Fascist party, the Italian Social Movement, which was formed in 1946 by admirers of Mussolini and, in 1979, coordinated with like-minded French and Spanish parties to compete (with little success) in the first popular elections for the European Parliament.
而这种思维并没有随着二战的结束而终结。基于对少数族群和移民的共同恐惧，这些右翼政党的跨国联合得以存续。虽然这些右翼人士说着不同的语言，他们却会借鉴彼此的理想、策略、口号和理论家。法国的国民阵线(National Front)由勒庞的父亲让-马里·勒庞(Jean-Marie Le Pen)在1972年建立，它仿效了最早的新法西斯主义政党意大利社会运动(Italian Social Movement)的标志和政治手段。意大利社会运动由墨索里尼的崇拜者于1946年组成，1979年与志趣相投的法国和西班牙政党协作，参与了欧洲议会最早的直选（但没有获得多少成功）。
So when observers marvel about the “new” nationalist parties of Europe, they are capturing only part of the truth. These right-wingers mistrust or even detest the Continent’s core institutions — the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament — but they are perfectly happy to join up with extremists in other countries to weaken those institutions.
所以当观察人士惊讶于欧洲的“新”民族主义政党时，他们只看到了部分真相。这些右翼人士不信任、甚至是憎恶欧洲大陆的核心机构——欧盟委员会(European Commission)、欧洲中央银行(European Central Bank)和欧洲议会，但他们却非常乐于和其他国家的极端主义分子联合起来，来削弱这些机构的力量。
Which raises a question: What makes the European Union so appealing as a target?
这就提出了一个问题：是什么使得欧盟成为攻击的目标？
The answer may (and should) shock complacent left-leaning and center-right Europeans alike. “Europe,” as an idea and a community, has weakened. The European Union’s byzantine governance makes it seem unaccountable. Its leaders — notably José Manuel Barroso of Portugal, the president of the European Commission, the union’s executive body; Herman van Rompuy of Belgium, the president of the European Council, which comprises the 28 heads of government; and Catherine Ashton, the union’s top diplomat — are little known outside of elite circles.
答案也许（应该）会震惊那些安于现状的左翼和中右翼欧洲人。作为一个理念和社会，“欧洲”日渐衰落。欧盟拜占庭式的治理方式使它看上去无需承担责任。它的领导人们——特别是欧盟执行机构欧盟委员会主席、葡萄牙人若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)；由28个政府首脑组成的欧洲理事会(European Council)的主席、比利时人赫尔曼·范龙佩(Herman Van Rompuy)；还有欧盟外交事务最高官员表凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)——在精英群体以外少有人知。
Soaring youth unemployment, stringent fiscal policies, German-led monetary clout and the presence of Muslim immigrants have created a perfect target for the likes of Mr. Wilders and Ms. Le Pen, who blame outside forces like the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Union for their nations’ woes. Conveniently, they overlook structural problems like the costs of social welfare and pension programs, declining birthrates, aging populations, stagnant labor productivity and intensifying competition from the economies of Asia and Latin America.
飞速增长的年轻失业人口、严苛的财政政策、德国主导的对货币政策的影响，以及穆斯林移民的大量出现，这形成了可以让维尔德斯和勒庞之流大肆攻击的最佳目标，这些人认为，国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)、欧洲中央银行和欧盟等外部力量，应对他们国家出现的问题负责。他们也方便地忽略了一些结构问题，如社会福利和养老项目的成本、不断降低的出生率、人口老龄化、劳动力生产率止步不前，以及亚洲和拉丁美洲经济体不断加强的竞争力。
Surveys show that the anti-European Union forces may win more than 90 of the 751 seats to be contested in the May elections for the European Parliament. That might be enough to form an official parliamentary group — and to make them eligible, like the transnational alliances of socialists and center-right Christian democrats, for European Union financing and full political recognition. Even as a tiny, noisy voice within the European Parliament, this alliance could create a lot of trouble. Just think of the successes that Tea Party Republicans have had in impeding decision making in the United States.
调查显示，在欧洲议会5月大选中的751个席位中，反欧盟力量有可能赢得90个以上。像社会主义者和中右翼基督教民主主义者组成的跨国联盟那样，这些席位可能足以形成一个正式的议会团体，也让他们同样有资格取得欧盟的资助和对其政治地位的完全认可。即便这一团体在欧洲议会中只能发出微弱、嘈杂的声音，它还是有可能会制造出很多麻烦。想想茶党共和党人在阻碍美国的决策制定方面所取得的成功吧。
The perception that bureaucrats in Brussels, bankers in Frankfurt and European lawmakers in Strasbourg, France, are haughty and indifferent has made it possible for demagogues to pose as populists who are alone in understanding “the people.”
许多人认为，布鲁塞尔的官僚、法兰克福的银行家和法国斯特拉斯堡的欧洲议员态度傲慢、无视人民的需求，单单这种想法的存在，就让蛊惑人心的政客有机可乘，将自己装扮成唯一理解“人民”的民粹主义者。
For example, in November, Lorenzo Fontana, an Italian member of the European Parliament from the right-wing Northern League, boasted — ahead of a gathering with leaders of the National Front and similarly oriented Swedish, Austrian and Flemish parties — that they spoke in the name of a “shared ideal of Europe, a Europe of people.” The League’s newspaper, La Padania, on Nov. 14, put it this way: “It will be up to the voters, but this time the troops, willing but disorganized, have the opportunity to unite in a single ‘army’ behind an able leader.”
例如，11月，欧洲议会的意大利议员、来自右翼北方联盟(Northern League)的洛伦佐·丰塔纳(Lorenzo Fontana)在一场与国民阵线和目标相似的瑞典、奥地利和弗拉芒党派共同举办的领袖峰会前，吹嘘他们代表了“共同的欧洲理想，人民的欧洲”。北方联盟的报纸《北意大利》(La Padania)11月14日这样表述道：“这将由选民决定，但这一次，有意愿但组织混乱的部队有机会在一位有能力的领袖麾下，联合成一支‘军队’”。
How would these right-wingers reshape Europe? They say they would give power back to nations by dismantling the technocratic decision-making power amassed in Brussels and returning powers back to individual member states. They would pause, if not quite reverse, six decades of growing integration.
这些右翼人士将会如何重塑欧洲？他们说，他们会通过分解集中在布鲁塞尔的技术官僚决策权，将权力归还给各成员国，来达到还权于诸国的目的。他们会暂停60载的不断融合，如果说还不是逆转的话。
Tragically, in the face of this assault, calls for European solidarity are few. This is a sign of how far Europe has come from the dream that helped lift it from the ashes of war. It is a sign of the fading of the vision — common markets, democratic institutions and societal integration — promoted by the postwar founders of European integration: thinkers and statesmen like Konrad Adenauer, Winston Churchill, Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman and Altiero Spinelli.
可悲的是，在这种攻击面前，欧洲团结的呼声却是罕见的。这显示了，欧洲已在多大程度上背离了那个梦想，而正是那个梦想帮助欧洲从战争的废墟中崛起。这也显示了那种远见——共同市场、民主制度和社会融合——消失了，而这种远见是战后欧洲融合的创立者们所推崇的，即康拉德·阿登纳(Konrad Adenauer)、温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)、让·莫内(Jean Monnet)、罗伯特·舒曼(Robert Schuman)和阿尔提艾罗·斯皮内利(Altiero Spinelli)那样的思想家和大政治家。
The European Union must reclaim its reputation as a champion of the people. Its leaders should abandon their embrace of technocratic solutions, their support for the banking sector and their stoic austerity. Unless they deliver more jobs, and more of a sense that citizens are in charge, the far right will only keep growing.
欧盟必须恢复其人民权利捍卫者的名声。它的领导人们也应该放弃他们对技术官僚解决方案的信奉，放弃他们对银行业和隐忍紧缩的支持。除非他们能带来更多工作机会，让人民更强烈地感觉到他们当家做主，那么极右翼的队伍就会越来越庞大。