PARIS — Shocked by the carnage of the Paris attacks, France and Belgium moved aggressively on Thursday to strengthen the hand of their security forces, pushing Europe more deeply into a debate that has raged in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001: how to balance counterterrorism efforts and civil liberties.
巴黎——巴黎袭击案的血腥杀戮震惊了法国和比利时，本周四，两国大幅增强安全部队的力量。此举在欧洲激发了进一步的争论：如何在反恐行动和公民自由之间把握平衡。同样的争论也曾在2001年9月11日之后的美国爆发过。
With their populations stunned and nervous and political pressure growing on the right, the French and Belgian governments made it clear that, for now, they would put protecting their citizens ahead of other considerations.
法国和比利时的公众既震惊又紧张，右翼施加的政治压力也越来越重，在这种情况下，两国政府明确表示，目前他们会把保护本国公民的任务置于其他考虑之前。
With time, the United States has moved to ease some elements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, passed in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. It has also strengthened oversight of intelligence agencies and of mass domestic surveillance in the wake of the revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former contractor for the National Security Agency who leaked documents about surveillance.
美国在9·11恐怖袭击后通过了《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)，但随着时间推移，法案中一些规定已经有所放宽。而且在国家安全局(NSA)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曝光了监控文件之后，美国也加强了对情报机构和国内大规模监控行动的监管。
But European nations battered by terrorism are moving in the other direction. Those nations include France, which has suffered multiple attacks this year; Belgium, where many of the Paris attackers lived or grew up; and Britain, which has thwarted a number of plots in recent years. Each is updating and strengthening government power while debating further controls over passport-free travel within continental Europe.
但是，遭受恐怖主义袭击的欧洲国家却正在朝着另一个方向前进。这些国家中包括今年已多次遭袭的法国，以及巴黎袭击案多名嫌犯生活或成长地比利时，近年来已经挫败一些袭击阴谋的英国。这三个国家都在提升、加强政府的权力，并在讨论是否对欧洲大陆范围内免护照旅行予以进一步的控制。
Since Friday’s attacks on Paris, France has aggressively used emergency powers, for example, to round up potential terrorism suspects across the country in an effort to disrupt any further plots.
例如，自上周五巴黎遇袭以来，法国大举动用紧急状态下的权力，在全国各地围捕潜在的恐怖嫌疑人，破除进一步的恐怖阴谋。
Finding the right balance between individual rights and antiterrorism measures has grown more complex in the 14 years since the United States was struck by Al Qaeda, in part because of the pervasiveness of digital technology and the ensuing questions about personal privacy. But in the days after the Paris attacks, there has been relatively little reflection about the tradeoffs as the nations most affected, France and Belgium, rushed to put new security measures in place and alter their legal and constitutional structures to give government more flexibility in dealing with threats.
美国遭到基地组织袭击后这14年里，在个人权利和反恐举措之间找到合适的平衡点变得愈发复杂，部分是因为数字技术的普及，以及随之而来的个人隐私问题。但在巴黎遭袭之后，由于受影响最大的法国和比利时急于落实新安全举措，改变法律及宪法构架，以允许政府更加灵活地应对威胁，有关这种权衡的思考相对较少。
As Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France warned darkly on Thursday of the possibility of chemical and biological attacks, France’s National Assembly voted, 551 to 6 with one abstention, to extend for three months a national state of emergency imposed after the attacks in Paris by the Islamic State, which killed 129 people and wounded 352.
随着法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)在周四严正警告称法国可能会遭到生化攻击，法国国民议会(National Assembly)以551票赞成、六票反对、一人弃权的结果，通过将全国紧急状态延长三个月的提案，法国是在巴黎遭到伊斯兰国袭击，导致129人死亡、352人受伤以后，宣布全国进入紧急状态的。
“The state of emergency, it’s true, justifies certain temporary restrictions on liberties,” Mr. Valls said. “But resorting to this, it’s to give us every chance to fully restore these liberties.”
“紧急状态确实为某些临时限制自由的举措提供了正当理由，”瓦尔斯说，“但依靠这种方式，我们可以抓住一切机会去完全恢复这些自由。”
In Belgium, Prime Minister Charles Michel said he would rush through legal changes to make it easier to capture, try and punish suspected terrorists operating there. He also said he would seek constitutional changes to extend the length of time suspects can be held by the police without filing charges to 72 hours from 24.
比利时总理夏尔·米歇尔(Charles Michel)说，他将尽快推进法律改革，方便抓捕、审判和惩罚在该国行动的嫌疑恐怖分子。他还表示将寻求修改宪法，延长警方羁押犯罪嫌疑人的时间，从原来的24小时延长到72小时。
His plan calls for the imprisonment of jihadists returning to Belgium from overseas, and would require anyone deemed a threat to wear an ankle bracelet. The plan would also ban the anonymous sale of telephone SIM cards that allow terrorists to hide their identities; would remove restrictions on what times of day the police are permitted to conduct raids on terrorism suspects; and would allow the authorities to arrest or expel religious figures “who preach hatred.”
他的计划呼吁监禁那些从海外返回比利时圣战者，并要求给那些被视为危险分子的人戴上监视脚环。计划还包括：禁止销售匿名电话SIM卡，因为恐怖分子用这种卡可以隐藏身份；取消对警方行动的时间限制，可以在一天中的任何时段打击嫌疑恐怖分子；让当局可以逮捕或驱逐“煽动仇恨”的宗教人士。
Mr. Michel also wants to require all passengers traveling on high-speed trains as well as airplanes to register their identities before departure.
米歇尔还想要求所有乘坐高速列车及飞机的乘客在出发前登记身份。
Jan Techau, the director of Carnegie Europe, a research organization based in Brussels, said he saw the reactions as perfectly natural.
卡内基欧洲中心(Carnegie Europe)的主任扬·特肖(Jan Techau)表示，他认为这种反应非常自然。该研究机构总部位于布鲁塞尔。
“The home front is the field of political activity now — it will all be about homeland security,” he said. “There is a sense that the authorities are no longer in control, and it’s a clear attempt by authorities to regain some trust.”
“本国现在已经成为政治活动场所——一切都是为了国土安全，”他说。“有种当局已经失去控制的感觉，这明显是当局为了重新获得信任所采取的举措。”
But advocates for civil liberties warned against governments going too far, and suggested that European nations had to be particularly careful that the measures they were taking were not aimed at one class of citizens: Muslims.
但公民自由倡导人士警告政府不要太过分，称欧洲各国需要格外谨慎，确保它们所采取的举措不是仅针对一类公民：穆斯林。
Officials at Human Rights Watch in Belgium cautioned on Thursday that the authorities should ensure such measures did not lead to indiscriminate roundups or unnecessary restrictions on freedom of speech, movement and religion.
比利时人权观察组织的官员在周四警告称，当局应该确保此类举措不会导致不加区分的集中收容行动，或对言论、行动及宗教自由施加不必要的限制。
“Like every nation, Belgium has a responsibility to protect its people from attacks, but it should not trample basic rights in the process,” said Letta Tayler, a senior terrorism and counterterrorism researcher at Human Rights Watch. “Whenever a country is attacked or threatened, there is a danger that governments will overreact in an effort to make people secure.”
“像每个国家一样，比利时有责任保护民众不受攻击，但它在这个过程中不应该践踏基本权利，”人权观察组织恐怖主义及反恐问题高级研究员莱塔·泰勒(Letta Tayler)说。“每当一个国家遭到攻击或威胁时，就存在政府为了令民众感到安心做出过激反应的危险。”
The French emergency bill, which the French Senate is expected to approve on Friday, extends the powers of a 1955 emergency law to allow the dissolution of radical groups running mosques and other places of prayer; the blocking of websites and social media that glorify or incite terrorism; and the use, in certain cases, of electronic tagging for those placed under house arrest.
法国的紧急法案扩展了1955年紧急法案的权力，允许相关部门摧毁管理清真寺及其他祈祷场所的激进组织；封锁美化或煽动恐怖主义的网站及社交媒体；在某些情况下，可以对遭到软禁的人进行电子监控。
It is the first time since the 1955 law was passed that a national state of emergency has been declared. France is already being patrolled by heavily armed soldiers, and now police officers who are off duty will be allowed to carry firearms and use them if they wear an armband identifying themselves as police.
这是自1995年该法案获得通过以来，首先出现宣布全国进入紧急状态的情况。法国已经部署全副武装的士兵上街巡逻，警察下班后也可以携带枪支，可以在佩戴象征警察身份的臂章的情况下使用枪支。
On Wednesday, the French authorities said they had carried out more than 414 raids across the country, arrested 64 people and placed another 118 under house arrest.
周三，法国当局表示他们在全国开展了逾414场突袭行动，逮捕了64人，对另外118人实施软禁。
Under the emergency, the authorities are permitted to conduct raids and make arrests without first obtaining a warrant. But as soon as someone is arrested or property is seized, the regular legal system kicks in. Suspects in terrorism cases are already allowed to be held without charge for up to six days.
在这种紧急状态下，当局获准在没有获得拘捕令的情况下开展突袭，进行逮捕。但当某人被捕或财产被没收时，常规的法律体系就开始生效。恐怖主义案件中的嫌疑人在没有遭到指控的情况下，可以最多被关押六天。