PARIS — As a caustic election campaign in Greece revives fears that the country could leave the euro, European officials are taking an increasingly hard line toward Athens, saying they want to keep Greece in the single currency, though not at any cost.
巴黎——激烈的希腊大选重新点燃了人们对该国可能退出欧元区的担忧，欧洲官员对雅典的态度变得越来越强硬，他们表示，希望把希腊留在欧元区，但不会不计代价。
The admonishments have stacked up in recent days — from Berlin, Paris and Brussels — intensifying what is shaping up to be another high-stakes standoff between Europe’s leaders and the eurozone’s most-troubled country.
最近几天，柏林、巴黎和布鲁塞尔都做出了这样的表态，欧洲领导人和欧元区经济最困难的国家之间正在加速酝酿着另一场高风险的对峙。
European leaders have spent their time since the last acute Greek political crisis, in 2012, building firewalls against the kind of financial contagion that rocked the Continent before, and their stiff warnings to some extent reflect their confidence that the eurozone would survive a Greek exit.
希腊上一次发生重大政治危机是在2012年，自那之后，欧洲领导人逐步建起了防火墙，来阻挡之前那种席卷欧洲大陆的金融危机的蔓延。他们的严厉警告在一定程度上反映了他们的信心：即便希腊退出，欧元区也不会分崩离析。
But the turmoil in Greece is already demonstrating its potential to rattle financial markets, adding an untimely sprinkling of anxiety to a heaping of external factors that helped drive the euro to a nine-year low against the dollar on Monday.
但希腊的危机已经展现了它对金融市场的潜在破坏力，在推动欧元兑美元汇率本周一跌至九年新低的一大堆外部因素之上，又不合时宜地注入了更多的焦虑感。
To the evident dismay of European officials, and international markets, the narrow front-runner for the Jan. 25 election appears to be Alexis Tsipras, the head of the leftist Syriza party.
在定于1月25日举行的希腊选举中，极左翼党派激进左翼联盟(Syriza)领导人亚历克西斯·奇普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)可能会以微弱优势胜出，这显然令欧洲官员和国际市场感到不安。
Though Mr. Tsipras has made it clear that he would like to keep Greece in the eurozone, he has also vowed to repudiate parts of the nation’s debt, roll back the austerity measures required by Greece’s international creditors, and renegotiate deals with them that have given Greece access to billions in aid.
尽管奇普拉斯已经明确表示，他希望希腊留在欧元区，但他也誓言要拒付希腊的部分债务，逆转国际债权人要求采取的紧缩措施，并重新与他们谈判，修改已经给希腊带来巨额援助的协议。
Following through on such pledges could cost Greece’s creditors, and European taxpayers, tens of billions of dollars, particularly if financial markets become strained by uncertainty.
这种主张可能会让希腊的债权人和欧洲的纳税人损失数以百亿计的欧元，特别是在不确定性导致金融市场变得紧张的情况下。
The possibilities are once again raising an existential question for European leaders: What cost are they willing to bear to keep Greece in the eurozone? Their answer, for now, has amounted to a tough line, particularly from the austerity-minded Germans.
这种可能性再次给欧洲领导人提出一个根本问题：他们愿意付出怎样的代价，来把希腊留在欧元区？就目前来看，他们对这个问题采取了强硬立场，主张紧缩的德国人尤为如此。
On Monday, Germany’s economics minister, Sigmar Gabriel, said Europe would not accept undermining the stability that has returned to the eurozone in the last couple of years.
本周一，德国经济部长西格玛尔·加布里尔(Sigmar Gabriel)表示，欧元区在过去几年里恢复了稳定，欧洲不会接受这种稳定性遭到削弱。
“We aren’t vulnerable to blackmail,” he said in an interview with the German newspaper Hannoversche Allgemeine. “We expect from the Greek government — regardless of who will form it — that the agreements made with the E.U. will be respected.”
“我们不怕敲诈勒索，”他在接受德国报纸《汉诺威广讯报》(Hannoversche Allgemeine)采访时说。“不管希腊政府由什么人组成，我们对他们的期许都是，希腊与欧盟之前达成的协议将得到尊重。”
Last week, Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, cautioned Greece against moving away from its current economic reforms, saying: “If Greece takes another path, it will be difficult. Any new government will have to stick to the agreements made by its predecessor.”
上周，德国财长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)警告希腊不要远离其目前的经济改革方向，他说：“如果希腊选择另一条道路，事情会很麻烦。任何新政府都需要严格执行其前任达成的协议。”
In an acknowledgment of the delicacy of the situation, German officials on Monday quickly backed away from a weekend report by the magazine Der Spiegel that suggested that Chancellor Angela Merkel and Mr. Schäuble believed that the eurozone could cope if Greece quit the euro and returned to the drachma.
目前的形势很微妙。《明镜》杂志(Der Spiegel)周末发布的一篇报道暗示，德国总理默克尔和朔伊布勒认为，如果希腊退出欧元区，重新使用本国货币，欧元区也足以应付，但本周一，德国官员很快就对此予以了否认。
A government spokesman denied that contingency plans had been made for such a possibility, and insisted that Germany wanted Greece to remain in the eurozone.
政府发言人否认已经针对这种可能性制定了应急计划，并坚称德国希望希腊留在欧元区。
Officials in Brussels, too, emphasized Monday that membership in the euro bloc was “irrevocable,” although they left open to what extent Greece could renegotiate the terms of its bailout after the election.
布鲁塞尔的官员本周一也强调，欧元区成员身份是“不可撤销的”，然而他们没有明确表示，大选之后的希腊政府可以在何种程度上重新谈判救助条款。
“The euro is here to stay,” said a European Commission spokeswoman, Annika Breidthardt.
“欧元是会存续下去的，”欧盟委员会发言人安妮卡·布莱德塔特(Annika Breidthardt)说。
Guy Verhofstadt, a former Belgian prime minister who leads the Liberal group in the European Parliament, called the idea of a Greek exit, or “Grexit,” from the eurozone “nonsense,” not only because most Greeks do not want to leave the euro, but also because European taxpayers would wind up losing billions of euros that Greece owes them.
前比利时首相、欧洲议会(European Parliament)自由派领袖居伊·伏思达(Guy Verhofstadt)表示，讨论希腊退出欧元区的可能性“很无聊”，这不仅是因为大部分希腊人不愿离开欧元区，也因为欧洲纳税人将失去希腊欠他们的数以十亿计的欧元。
“Instead of talking about a possible Grexit, we should focus on solving the investment problem Greece and other countries are facing,” Mr. Verhofstadt said.
“和谈论希腊退出的可能性相比，我们应该着重解决希腊等国面临的投资问题，”伏思达说。
And in Paris, President François Hollande said in a French radio interview Monday that though the Greeks were “free to choose their own destiny,” there were “certain engagements that have been made and all those must be of course respected.”
在巴黎，奥朗德总统本周一接受法国电台采访时表示，虽然希腊人“有选择自己命运的自由”，但“某些协议已经达成，必须对它们予以尊重”。
Mr. Tsipras, for his part, has softened the fiery language he employed during national elections in 2012, when he threatened to rip up Greece’s bailout agreement and default on the debt, and insists that he does not want Greece to leave the eurozone.
奇普拉斯已经软化了他在2012年全国选举中采取的强硬姿态，当时他威胁要撕毁希腊救助协议，不偿还债务，现在他坚称自己不希望希腊离开欧元区。
But in a campaign swing this weekend, he said his party would ensure that much of Greece’s debt was written off as part of a renegotiation of its international bailout deal, and reiterated plans to roll back many of the austerity policies required for the bailout.
但在周末的一次竞选讲话中，他说，自己的党派将确保在对国际救助协议进行重新谈判时，勾销希腊的大量债务，他还重申了一些计划，目的是逆转救助方要求的紧缩政策。
“Austerity is both irrational and destructive,” he said. “To pay back debt, a bold restructuring is needed.”
“紧缩政策既不合理，破坏性又大，”他说。“为了偿还债务，必须大胆进行重组。”
On Monday, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, whom many Greeks blame for carrying out a harsh austerity plan that has deepened a recession, kicked off his re-election campaign with a stark warning that a victory for Mr. Tsipras would lead Greece to default and an exit from the euro.
很多希腊人指责总理安东尼斯·萨马拉斯(Antonis Samaras)开展严格的紧缩计划，加深了经济衰退。本周一，萨马拉斯开始了连任竞选活动，他郑重警告说，如果奇普拉斯获胜，希腊就会出现债务违约，并退出欧元区。
Mr. Tsipras has brushed off such arguments as a scare tactic. But most European governments would still prefer to deal with Mr. Samaras, who has overseen the slow but steady accomplishment of many reforms required by Greece’s creditors, at the political cost of angering many Greeks who see austerity as having devastated their lives.
奇普拉斯表示，这些说法是一种恐吓策略。但是，大多数欧洲国家政府仍然更愿意与萨马拉斯打交道，他监督实施了希腊债权人要求进行的很多改革，取得了缓慢但稳定的成效，但是也付出了政治代价，因为很多希腊人认为紧缩政策毁掉了自己的生活，对萨马拉斯怨声载道。
Mr. Samaras also improved Greece’s overall financial figures enough so that it could return to borrowing in international financial markets last year, for the first time since 2012.
萨马拉斯已经改善了希腊的整体财务状况，让该国得以重新在国际金融市场上借入资金，这还是2012年以来的第一次。
Mr. Samaras’s term was supposed to end in 2016, and he had forecast a return to meager economic growth this year after a devastating five-year recession that has left unemployment at a staggering 25 percent. But Mr. Samaras has insisted that if the early election empowers Syriza, the gains that Greece has made will fall by the wayside.
萨马拉斯的任期本应在2016年结束，之前他预计，在经历了五年经济衰退的煎熬，失业率飙升到25%之后，希腊经济今年将回暖微增。但萨马拉斯坚称，如果激进左翼联盟在初期选举中获胜，希腊已经取得的成果就会半途而废。
Already, Greek businesses have reported that foreign investments have all but stopped amid the uncertainty, while billions of euros in value has been wiped off the Athens stock exchange in the last several weeks.
希腊商界已然表示，由于存在这种不确定性，外国投资者已经停止投资，在过去几周里，雅典证券交易所蒸发的股票市值数以十亿欧元计。
Mr. Tsipras continues to run about three percentage points ahead of Mr. Samaras in national political polls, but it is not entirely certain that Syriza will garner enough seats in the Greek Parliament to have a solid majority. If that happens, Mr. Tsipras will be forced to form a fragile coalition government, raising questions about his ability to carry through on his election promises.
全国政治民调数据显示，奇普拉斯继续领先萨马拉斯约三个百分点，但这并不能确保激进左翼联盟可以获得足够多的席位，从而在希腊议会稳居多数。如果真的出现这种情况，奇普拉斯将不得不组建一个脆弱的联合政府，他兑现竞选承诺的能力也会遭到质疑。
Nearly 20 percent of Greek voters say they have not yet decided whom to vote for on Jan. 25, according to an analysis by economists at Commerzbank. Adding to the uncertainty, a former Greek prime minister, George A. Papandreou, on Monday formed a new political party that could cost Syriza some votes.
德国商业银行(Commerzbank)经济学家的分析报告显示，近20%的希腊选民说，他们还没有决定1月25日会投票给谁。希腊前总理乔治·A·帕潘德里欧(George A. Papandreou)本周一组建了一个新政党，可能会让激进左翼联盟失去一些选票，这进一步增加了不确定性。
Still, most observers expect a Greece run by Mr. Tsipras would stay within the eurozone, and that a new Greek government would reach an agreement with its European creditors following a period of turmoil. After all, if Greece were to return to the drachma, the country would likely face new economic upheaval that it could ill afford.
尽管如此，大多数观察家预计，奇普拉斯上台之后，该国还是会留在欧元区，然后经过一段时间的动荡，新的希腊政府将与欧洲债权人达成协议。毕竟，如果希腊恢复使用本国货币，可能会出现新的经济动荡，将它推入深渊。