MILAN — With Europe once again rattling global markets, many of the largest European countries are now rebelling against the German gospel of belt-tightening and demanding more radical steps to reverse their slumping fortunes.
米兰——欧洲再次令全球市场感到不安之时，很多欧洲大国开始反对德国实施财政紧缩的要求，要求采取更激进的举措，来扭转经济低迷的趋势。
One after another, European leaders arrived in Milan on Thursday for a summit meeting with their Asian counterparts, smiling for photographs despite gloomy financial news this week of stock markets tumbling and borrowing costs shooting up, especially in Greece, evoking memories of the euro crisis two years ago.
周四，欧洲领导人相继抵达米兰参加欧亚领导人峰会，他们面带微笑拍照留念，尽管本周的财经新闻令人沮丧——股市暴跌、借贷成本剧增，特别是希腊，这种情况让人想起了两年前的欧元危机。
In past years, however, the eurozone nations buckled under to German demands to slash budget deficits and roll back public services, and then watched in dismay as unemployment rates shot into the double digits and growth collapsed. Now, France, Italy and the European Central Bank have coalesced into a bloc against Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and they are insisting that Berlin change course.
但过去几年中，欧元区国家屈从于德国提出的削减预算赤字，减少公共服务的要求，然后沮丧地看着失业率迅速升至两位数，经济出现衰退。如今，法国、意大利和欧洲央行(European Central Bank)已经形成对抗德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的联盟，他们坚持要求柏林改变路线。
“We need to show that Europe is capable of investing in growth, and not only in rigor and austerity,” said the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, speaking to reporters outside the conference center after presiding over the opening of the meeting. He described the international financial situation as “very delicate” and said Europe had still not earned the confidence of international markets.
意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)主持完会议开幕式后，在会议中心外对记者表示，“我们需要展示，欧洲能够为实现发展进行投资，而不仅仅是实施严格的紧缩政策。”他称国际金融形势“非常微妙”，并表示欧洲仍没有赢得国际市场的信心。
“As the I.M.F. has said,” he said, referring to the International Monetary Fund, “we need to focus on growth.”
“就像IMF说的那样，”他说。“我们需要关注经济增长。”IMF指的是国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)。
The divisions between Europe’s leaders, at a moment when unity would seem critical, is one reason the markets are rattled — as well as the fact that policy makers still have not found a tool to revive growth in the face of staggering public debt.
在团结一直显得非常重要的时刻，欧洲领导人之间出现了分歧，这是市场感到不安的一个原因。其他的原因还有，面对高到咋舌的公共债务，政策制定者仍然没有找到重振经济增长的方法。
The prospect of another European financial crisis can only bring an unwanted sense of discomfort for Washington and the rest of the world, given that China’s economy is slowing, the American recovery remains fragile and the Ukrainian crisis remains unresolved. Financial investors who had seemingly forgotten about the European crises in 2008 and 2010 now again seem worried about the Continent’s persistent lack of growth and the prospect of falling into a deflationary trap.
鉴于中国经济正在放缓，美国的经济复苏依旧脆弱，乌克兰危机仍未解决，再爆发一场欧洲金融危机的可能性，只会给华盛顿及世界其他国家带来厌倦不安的感觉。之前仿佛已经忘记2008年及2010年欧洲危机的金融投资者，现在再次对欧洲长期缺乏增长，甚至可能陷入通缩陷阱的情况感到担忧。
“It is the third phase of the crisis,” said François Godement, an analyst at the European Council on Foreign Relations, a research organization.
研究机构欧洲对外关系委员会(European Council on Foreign Relations)的分析师弗朗索瓦·戈德芒(François Godement)说，“目前是危机的第三阶段。”
Politically and economically, Europe’s central country remains Germany and its central figure remains Ms. Merkel, backed by Jens Weidmann, the head of the German central bank and long an advocate of monetary and fiscal discipline. Germany is the eurozone’s biggest economic force, but it is now stumbling — even as its role as enforcer of austerity has made it a focus of fear, loathing and blame from some other European powers.
在政治和经济上，德国仍是欧洲的核心国家，默克尔仍是欧洲的核心人物，她得到了德国央行行长延斯·魏德曼(Jens Weidmann)的支持。魏德曼长期以来一直推崇货币和财政纪律。德国是欧元区最大的经济力量，但它现在也是步履蹒跚，尽管它因为努力推行紧缩，但已经成了其他欧洲大国恐惧、厌恶、指责的目标。
France, which has in modern times been Germany’s indispensable partner in European crisis management, is now in near revolt, and President François Hollande has joined forces with Mr. Renzi, who has presented an expansionary 2015 budget that will cut taxes despite pressure from Brussels to meet deficit targets.
在现代，对于欧洲的危机管理，法国一直是德国不可或缺的伙伴。但现在，它似乎也要开始反抗了。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)站在了伦齐一边。尽管布鲁塞尔向其施压，要求满足赤字目标，但伦齐仍然拿出了一份扩张性的2015年度预算案，该预算将削减税收。
Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, has pressed Germany to temper its insistence on budgetary discipline and to spend more on public works to stimulate the eurozone economy. The French have cheered him on. German leaders have resisted, while making clear their opposition to the more powerful stimulus measures that analysts expect the European Central Bank to deploy soon.
欧洲央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)曾敦促德国缓和它对预算纪律的坚持，增加公共工程开支，从而刺激欧元区经济。法国对德拉吉表达了鼓励，但德国领导人却并不同意。分析人士预期欧洲央行很快就会部署更加有力的刺激举措，但德国对此明确提出了反对。
Mr. Weidmann has become increasingly alienated from other members of the European Central Bank’s governing council in his refusal to countenance large-scale purchases of government bonds, the kind of stimulus that the Federal Reserve used to help revive the United States economy. Mr. Weidmann speaks for a large swath of the German public, and was once a close adviser to Ms. Merkel.
因为拒绝支持大规模购买政府债券的做法，魏德曼在欧洲央行管理委员会中日趋孤立。美联储(Federal Reserve)曾通过这种购买政府债券的刺激措施，来复兴美国经济。魏德曼代表了一大部分德国公众的意见，他还曾是默克尔的亲密顾问。
The stock market rout that began Wednesday reflected a culmination of factors, including growing pessimism about Japanese and Chinese growth, the Ebola epidemic and conflict in the Middle East and Ukraine. But even after European and United States stock markets calmed on Thursday, investors registered their fear of a renewed crisis in the eurozone.
始于周三的股市重挫，反映了一系列因素的叠加，其中包括人们对日本和中国的经济增长愈发悲观的态度、埃博拉疫情，以及中东和乌克兰的冲突。但是，即使在欧洲和美国股市于周四恢复平静以后，投资者仍然担心欧元区会爆发新一轮危机。
Greece’s long-term borrowing costs rose to nearly 9 percent, from 7 percent on Wednesday, to reach the highest level since January. In a pattern that raised uncomfortable memories of the dark days of 2010, the bond sell-off in Greece quickly spread to other nations with debt and growth problems, including Portugal, Spain, Italy, and even Ireland.
周三，希腊的长期借贷成本从7%提高到了将近9%，达到了今年1月以来的最高水平。抛售希腊债券的趋势很快蔓延到了葡萄牙、西班牙、意大利，甚至爱尔兰等其他存在债务和增长问题的国家，这种情况让人想起了2010年令人不安的晦暗景象。
Europe has already endured years of stagnation, high unemployment and a mounting public disillusionment that has fueled a political backlash, with right-wing, Euro-skeptic parties steadily gathering strength. In France, Mr. Hollande is suffering from rock-bottom poll numbers, while the right-wing National Front has gained ground. In Italy, Mr. Renzi remains popular, but anti-austerity sentiment is strong, especially resentment over budget cuts and a lack of growth.
数年来，欧洲经济停滞、失业率高、公众不满情绪日益高涨，这对欧洲政治造成了很大影响，对欧洲一体化持怀疑态度的右翼政党，势力则开始稳步增加。在法国，奥朗德的支持率跌至谷底，右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)的人气则有所提升。伦齐在意大利仍然很受欢迎，但反紧缩情绪仍然很强烈，对削减预算和增长乏力的不满尤为强烈。