WARSAW — With hundreds of thousands of migrants pouring across its borders, and economic and political pressure growing to enact tighter controls, Europe has nevertheless stayed fairly steady in its response to the humanitarian emergency.
华沙——随着数十万移民涌入境内，有越来越强的经济和政治压力，迫使官方采取更严格的管控。但欧洲应对此次人道危机的措施，依然相当稳定。
But after the attacks on Friday in Paris, fears that Islamic terrorists might infiltrate the migrant flow have deepened across the Continent, and the talk has shifted sharply to security over compassion.
但周五晚上巴黎遇袭后，在整个欧洲大陆，对伊斯兰派恐怖分子可能会混入移民人群的担忧加剧了，相关的讨论话题也从对难民的同情，急剧地转变成了对安全的担忧。
Officials across Europe were calling for even stronger border controls, stricter screening of those arriving and some way to persuade people to stay in the Middle East.
欧洲各地的官员呼吁实施更严格的边境管制措施，对抵达欧洲的人进行更严格的筛查，并寻求某种方式，说服人们留在中东。
So far, it is mostly talk. But in recent weeks, European countries from Sweden to Slovenia have been enacting new border controls, erecting border fences and discussing ways to better screen and register the migrants.
迄今为止主要都还只是说说而已。不过最近几周，从瑞典到斯诺文尼亚的欧洲国家，已经在实行新的边境管制措施了。这些国家竖起了边境围栏，并就更好的移民审查和登记方式展开了讨论。
And since the attacks by militants, and the discovery of a passport of a recent Syrian migrant near the scene of a suicide bombing, the rising antimigrant sentiment seems poised to substantially shift the conversation. Perhaps it could even change both policies and attitudes toward the migrants, as they arrive, make their way across Europe and land in the countries where they hope to make their homes.
然而武装分子发动了袭击，而且自杀式爆炸现场附近发现的一本护照，属于一名刚到欧洲不久的叙利亚移民。日渐高涨的反移民情绪，似乎会让相关讨论发生显著的转变，它甚至可能会改变对移民的政策和态度。这些移民长途跋涉，来到欧洲国家，希望在那里安家。
In the short run, this shift in tone could complicate the only significant plan that the European Union now has to slow down or bring order to the resettling of more than a million people: its plans to relocate 160,000 migrants across Europe. It could also affect future attempts by the bloc and others to fashion a more comprehensive and unified approach to the crisis.
从短期来看，这种态度转变可能会让欧盟的一项重大计划变得复杂。欧盟计划将16万名移民分配到欧洲各国，这是欧盟为缓慢有序地重新安置超过一百万人，迄今为止采取的唯一大规模的计划。未来欧盟或其他国家为应对危机，而制定更全面、更统一的策略的尝试，可能也会受到影响。
Germany, which has accepted the largest number of migrants and is the destination of choice for many of them, is crucial to any solution to the crisis. But even there resistance is growing.
在应对此次危机的任何解决方案中，德国都至关重要，它接受的移民人数是最多的，也是很多移民选择的目的地。但即便在那里，阻力也日渐增加。
“The days of uncontrolled immigration and illegal entry can’t continue just like that,” insisted Markus Söder, the finance minister of Bavaria and a leader of its Christian Social Union, in an interview on Sunday with the Welt am Sonntag newspaper. “Paris changes everything.”
“不加控制地让移民非法进入的情况，不能再这样继续下去了，”巴伐利亚州财政部长和基督教社会联盟(Christian Social Union)在当地的一名领导马库斯·索德(Markus Söder)周日接受《星期日世界报》(Welt am Sonntag)的采访时说。“巴黎的事情改变了一切。”
Much of the harshest language is coming from Eastern European leaders, who have never been warm to the arrival of thousands of largely poor and Muslim migrants. Since the attacks in Paris on Friday, leaders have stepped up their criticism.
最严厉的言论中很多都来自东欧领导人。成千上万的移民大多是贫穷的穆斯林，而东欧领导人从未对他们表现出热情。巴黎周五遇袭后，他们加大了批评力度。
Karl Erjavec, Slovenia’s foreign minister, warned that the Paris attacks made it clear that hiding among the throngs of migrants are some “with bad intentions.”
斯洛文尼亚外长卡尔·埃里亚韦茨(Karl Erjavec)警告称，巴黎的袭击清晰地表明，移民人群中隐藏着一些“居心不良”的人。
“This atrocious act confirms that we are entering difficult times,” said Milos Zeman, the president of the Czech Republic. “We cannot fight international terror with protests and demonstrations anymore.”
“这种残暴行径证实，我们正在进入困难时期，”捷克总统米洛什·泽曼(Milos Zeman)说。“我们不能再用抗议和示威来应对国际恐怖活动了。”
Andrej Babis, the Czech finance minister, said that Europe was at war and that concrete steps needed to be taken — including, perhaps, closing the open borders of the Schengen group, which made passport-free travel possible among 26 nations, one of the Continent’s proudest achievements.
捷克财长安德烈·巴维斯(Andrej Babis)称，欧洲处于战争时期，需要采取具体的措施，可能包括在申根(Schengen)区关闭的开放边境。在申根区里，26个国家之间可以免护照通行，这是欧洲最引以为傲的成就之一。
The concerns were not limited to government officials.
担忧不仅限于政府官员。
“Along with refugees, there are also terrorists coming,” Mariana Koleva, 40, said on a shopping trip to Edirne, Turkey, from her home in Bulgaria.
“恐怖分子也跟着难民一起来了，”40岁的玛丽安娜·科莱瓦(Mariana Koleva)说。她正在从保加利亚的家，前往土耳其埃迪尔内购物的路上。
“I don’t want Romania now to receive migrants, especially after what happened in Paris,” said Gabriela, 38, a bank analyst in Bucharest who declined to give her last name because her employer would not approve. “We could also be in danger in the future.”
“我不希望罗马尼亚现在接收移民，特别是在巴黎的事件发生后，”布加勒斯特38岁的银行分析师加布里埃拉(Gabriela)说。“我们将来也可能有危险。”她不愿透露自己的姓氏，因为她的雇主不允许她这么做。
Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, who made an impassioned speech this summer urging a unified bloc response to the migrants, again urged tolerance.
欧盟委员会主席让-克洛德·容克(Jean-Claude Juncker)再次敦促各方要宽容。今年夏天，容克就曾发表过一次充满激情的讲话，敦促欧盟统一应对移民问题。
“Those who organized these attacks, and those who carried them out, are exactly those who the refugees are fleeing,” Mr. Juncker told reporters Sunday at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Antalya, Turkey. “And so there is no need for an overall review of the European policy on refugees.”
“难民要逃离的，正是那些组织和实施这些袭击的人，”容克周日在土耳其安塔利亚出席20国集团(Group of 20)峰会时对记者说。“因此，无需全面反省欧洲在难民问题上的政策。”
Marie Hermanova, the spokeswoman for a team of Czech volunteers who have been working with the migrants, said her group was bracing for a rising anti-migrant mood.
一直在与移民合作的一支捷克志愿者团队的女发言人玛丽·赫尔曼诺娃(Marie Hermanova)表示，她所在的组织准备好了要迎接日渐高涨的反移民情绪。
“What happened in Paris on Friday night is happening in Syria every day, and it is exactly why those people are running away,” she said. “Our volunteers are extremely unhappy about the wave of hate this will likely release.”
“周五晚上在巴黎发生的事情，每天都在叙利亚上演，这正是这些人要逃离的原因，”她说。“我们的志愿者对此次事件可能会引发的仇恨浪潮极为伤心。”
Tereza Novak, the director of Slovenska Filantropija, a humanitarian organization that has worked with migrants for two decades, echoed those concerns. “It’s unfortunate that such violence gives wings to those who spread fear and loathing of refugees,” she said.
已与移民合作二十年的人道主义组织斯洛文尼亚慈善会(Slovenska Filantropija)的负责人特雷莎·诺瓦克(Tereza Novak)附和了这些担忧。“不幸的是，这种暴力会让那些针对难民散布恐惧和嫌恶情绪的人得到帮助，”她说。
But Barbora Petrova, a political campaign strategist in Prague, said the attacks had created a sense of solidarity among Europeans at the expense of solidarity with the migrants.
但布拉格的政治活动策略师芭波拉·彼得罗娃(Barbora Petrova)表示，袭击事件增强了欧洲人当中的团结，然而破坏了他们与移民的团结。
“People are alarmed, and the space for compassion with the refugees has dramatically shrunk,” she said. “The migrants’ problems have been overshadowed.”
“人们感到担忧，同情难民的空间大幅减小，”她说。“移民面临的问题被遮蔽了。”
In Poland, already quite cool to the idea of allowing hundreds of thousands of migrants into Europe, the attacks in Paris further hardened attitudes.
波兰对于让数十万名移民进入欧洲，本来就相当冷淡。巴黎的袭击让该国的态度进一步强硬。
“If you look at what Polish commentators are saying on Facebook, the position has grown much stronger since the attacks,” said Pawel Poncyljusz, a former conservative politician who went into private business. “Opinions vary from those who want to admit no migrants to those who want to revise the system to make it more secure.”
“看看波兰的评论人士在Facebook上说的话，就会发现自袭击以来，他们的立场变得愈发强硬了，”曾是保守派政客，后来创立私人企业的帕维尔·庞西尔尤斯(Pawel Poncyljusz)说。“他们的意见各不相同，从不希望接受移民，到希望修改移民制度，让其更安全。”
The answer to the Paris attacks, said Peter N. Bouckaert, the emergencies director for Human Rights Watch, is not to shut the door on those desperately fleeing war in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, including many fleeing from the Islamic State.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)紧急事务干事彼得·N·布凯尔特(Peter N. Bouckaert)表示，解决巴黎袭击问题的办法，不是向那些拼命逃离叙利亚、伊拉克和阿富汗的战火的人关上大门，这些人当中有很多都是为了逃离伊斯兰国的控制。
“The answer is to put in place a coherent E.U. asylum policy that provides those fleeing war and repression with safe and legal alternatives to get that asylum, without having to risk their lives,” Mr. Bouckaert said in a Facebook post.
“解决办法是欧盟实行一致的避难政策，向那些逃离战火和压迫的人提供安全、合法的选择，让他们能得到庇护，而且不用冒生命危险，”布凯尔特在Facebook上发帖说。
Standing outside the French Embassy in Riga, Latvia, Marcis Zitmanis, 35, watched his daughter light a candle in an array of flowers and letters of condolence.
站在拉脱维亚里加的法国大使馆外，35岁的马尔齐斯·济特马尼斯(Marcis Zitmanis)看着女儿点亮了蜡烛。蜡烛周围有大量鲜花和吊唁信。