MINSK, Belarus — The leaders of Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany gathered here late Wednesday in a last-ditch effort to negotiate a peace agreement for Ukraine and quiet an escalating, year-old conflict that threatens to destabilize the European continent.
白俄罗斯明斯克——俄罗斯、乌克兰、法国和德国的领导人周三晚上齐聚在这里，为谈判达成应对乌克兰问题的和平协议，并平息一场不断升级的冲突做最后的努力。这场冲突已经持续一年之久，正威胁着欧洲大陆的稳定。
President François Hollande of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany arrived in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, joining President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Ukraine’s president Petro O. Poroshenko, after a day of some of the heaviest fighting of the war to date.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)和德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)抵达了白俄罗斯首都明斯克，与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)和乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)汇合。在这之前的一天里，刚刚发生了这场战争爆发以来最为激烈的几次战斗。
The Ukrainian government reported that 19 of its soldiers had been killed and 78 wounded in the last 24 hours of fighting with Russian-backed separatists around the contested town of Debaltseve in southeastern Ukraine.
乌克兰政府称，过去24小时，在乌克兰东南部的交火城镇德巴泽维附近与俄罗斯支持的分裂势力的战斗中，该国有19名士兵阵亡，78人受伤。
“The entire world is waiting to see whether the situation moves toward de-escalation, weapons pullback, cease-fire or spins out of control,” Mr. Poroshenko said upon arriving in Minsk.
“整个世界都在等待，看形势是朝着缓和、撤回武器、停火，还是会朝着失控的方向发展，”波罗申科抵达明斯克后表示。
Negotiations on what exactly would be discussed continued even as the various governments announced that their leaders were heading to Minsk. The talks are based on a 12-point peace agreement called the Minsk Protocol, signed here in September but violated almost immediately.
就在各国政府宣布其领导人正前往明斯克的同时，关于会谈内容的协商仍在进行当中。这次会谈的基础是包含12点内容的《明斯克协议》(Minsk Protocol)。这份和平协议在去年9月签署后几乎很快被打破。
The broad outlines of an agreement were clear enough, involving a cease-fire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons, the creation of a demilitarized zone and a degree of autonomy for the rebel-controlled regions of eastern Ukraine. But the details, such as where to draw the demilitarized zone, the degree of autonomy and Ukraine's control of its border with Russia, remained contentious.
一份协议的基本框架已足够清晰，它将包括停火、撤回重型武器、设立非军事区，以及让叛军控制的乌克兰东部地区享有一定程度的自治。但包括在哪里建立非军事区、自治的程度，以及乌克兰对与俄罗斯边境的控制的具体细节，则仍然存在争议。
Before leaving for Minsk, Mr. Poroshenko told his cabinet that the meeting would be his most important since becoming president last June. Both peace and continued war were possible, he said, warning that if the session failed and fighting in the east continued to escalate, he might impose martial law nationwide, which could jeopardize a $40 billion aid package being negotiated with Western lenders.
在前往明斯克之前，波罗申科对内阁成员表示，这次会议将是自己去年6月就任以来最重要的一次会议。他说，和平和继续冲突都存在可能。他还警告，如果会议失败且东部的冲突持续升级，他可能会在全国范围实施戒严，这可能会破坏一份正在与西方国家领导人协商的400亿美元的援助计划。
“We must be ready for both options, for peace and for the country’s protection,” local news reports quoted Mr. Poroshenko as saying.
“我们必须为两种选项都做好准备，和平与对国家的保护，”国内新闻媒体援引波罗申科的话报道。
The Ukrainian leader repeated a few of Kiev’s central demands, which underscored the gulf between its position and that of Moscow. Ukraine endorsed decentralization but not federalization, he said, noting that the separatist regions could be granted rights similar to those in autonomous communities in Russia.
这名乌克兰领导人重申了基辅的几项核心要求，它们突显了基辅与莫斯科的立场分歧。他说，乌克兰支持分权，但不支持联邦化，并指出，分裂地区可以获得与俄罗斯自治区域类似的权利。
In Moscow, Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said at a news conference that talks among experts had made “noticeable progress.”
在莫斯科，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在一个新闻发布会上说，专家们的会谈取得了“显著进展”。
But he also took exception to certain Ukrainian positions, suggesting that a truce, the withdrawal of heavy weaponry and the beginning of a political process, as well as the restoration of economic ties between Kiev and the separatist regions, were far more important than control over the border.
但他还对乌克兰的某些立场表达了不满，并表示，休战、取消重型武器、开启一次政治进程，以及恢复基辅和分裂地区的经济关系——这些事项要比夺得对边境的控制重要得多。
Ms. Merkel has emphasized repeatedly that she regards the chances of success in the talks as slim, even after she and Mr. Hollande met with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in Moscow and with Mr. Poroshenko in Kiev on Friday. But she said the effort would continue given the civilian death toll in the conflict, which the United Nations has estimated at more than 5,400 since violence erupted last spring.
默克尔已经反复强调，她认为这次会谈的成功几率不大，甚至在她和奥朗德周五在莫斯科会晤了普京、在基辅会晤了波罗申科之后，她也做出了这种表态。但她表示，鉴于冲突中的平民死亡人数，努力将会持续。联合国估计，自从去年春天爆发冲突以来，死亡人数已经超过5400人。
Although the European leaders and Mr. Putin had said they would not come to Minsk unless the prospects of reaching a deal were strong, the sides still have considerable differences to bridge.
尽管欧洲领导人和普京都曾表示，除非达成协议的可能性很大，他们不会来到明斯克。但目前，各方仍然有很大的分歧需要弥合。
Ukraine wants the complete disarmament of the separatists and the withdrawal of Russian troops and armaments — which both the Kremlin and the rebels continue to deny were ever sent. Russian officials have said that any Russian soldiers who joined the fighting were adventurers who were “on vacation.” But it is unlikely the separatists could have held out this long, much less gone on the offensive, without significant Russian support in men, money and matériel.
乌克兰希望分裂势力彻底解除武装，希望俄罗斯撤回士兵和武器——克里姆林宫和叛军仍然否认俄罗斯输送了武器。俄罗斯官员已经表示，参与战斗的俄罗斯士兵都是“正在度假”的探险人士。不过，如果俄罗斯没有在人力、资金和物资上提供重要支持，分裂势力不太可能在战斗中坚持这么久，更不可能会发动攻势。
Ukraine has promised some degree of self-rule to the breakaway areas, but it wants to control the lengthy border with Russia. It also seeks a full exchange of prisoners.
乌克兰已经承诺让分裂地区享有一定程度的自治，但它希望能够控制与俄罗斯的漫长边境线。此外，乌克兰还寻求充分交换战俘。
The rebel areas want to exist separately from the rest of Ukraine and to keep their weapons, and they are demanding amnesty for their leaders. They also want Ukraine to resume pension payments and other forms of financial support, while pushing for a buffer zone wide enough that the main cities cannot be shelled by Ukrainian forces.
叛乱地区想要独立于乌克兰其他地区存在，并保留武器，他们要求对其领导人予以特赦。他们还想让乌克兰恢复养老金和其他形式的财政补贴，同时推动建立一个足够大的缓冲区，让其主要城市不会受到乌克兰军队的炮击。
One possible point of contention in the talks is where the cease-fire line will fall, given that the rebels have captured more than 200 square miles of territory since the September agreement. Ukraine has insisted on reestablishing that line, but the separatists are unlikely to give back the territory because it makes their borders easier to defend.
会谈中可能引发争议的一个问题是，考虑到自从9月签署的协议以来，叛乱分子已经夺取了200平方英里的领土，停火线将在哪里划定。乌克兰坚持恢复原来的停火线，但分裂势力不太可能归还这些领土，因为夺得了这些领土后，他们很容易捍卫边境。