FRANKFURT — Mario Draghi, the European Central Bank president, is reaching deep into his toolbox to revive the region’s moribund economy.
法兰克福——欧洲央行(European Central Bank)行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)正竭尽全力，希望重振该地区停滞不前的经济。
He is cutting interest rates to the bone. He is charging banks even more to park their money. And he is using the central bank’s financial muscle to spur lending.
他把利率降到了最低，并且提高了对银行在央行存放资金的收费；此外，他还在利用央行的雄厚财力来刺激信贷。
But the question is whether the new actions, announced on Thursday, will be enough to fix Europe’s problems. If they don’t, Mr. Draghi doesn’t have many options left.
但问题是，周四宣布的新举措，是否足以解决欧洲的种种问题。而如果不能，德拉吉手里的选择已经不多了。
“It’s a positive step by the E.C.B.,” said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. But he added, “no matter how you look at it, monetary policy has done all it can.”
“这是欧洲央行迈出的积极一步，”在纽约州瓦尔哈拉的高频经济公司(High Frequency Economics)担任首席经济师的卡尔·B·温伯格(Carl B. Weinberg)说。不过他又说，“无论你如何看待，它在货币政策上都已经竭尽所能。”
Mr. Draghi’s aggressive moves reflect the gloomy, if familiar, state of the European economy. Low inflation and stagnant growth feed on each other in a vicious cycle, making existing debt burdens more onerous and making adjustments between the more prosperous Northern European nations and weaker southern ones more painful. The situation has confounded policy makers and politicians who are now grappling with how to prevent another full-on recession.
德拉吉的积极行动反映了欧洲令人沮丧，但或许并不陌生的经济现状。低通胀率和增长停滞形成了相互加剧的恶性循环，让现有的债务负担更加沉重，也让相对繁荣的欧洲北部与经济较低迷的欧洲南部之间的相互适应显得更加痛苦。这种状况让决策者和官员们头疼不已，他们目前正努力防止全面衰退的再次发生。
To some extent, Mr. Draghi is drawing from a new playbook.
从某种程度上看，德拉吉采用的是一种不同以往的策略。
Significantly, the central bank took the first steps toward large-scale asset purchases, a milder version of the so-called quantitative easing that the Federal Reserve has used in recent years to pump money into the United States economy.
值得注意的是，欧洲央行首次朝大规模资产购买采取了若干行动，此番行动是力度较为温和的量化宽松。最近几年，美联储(Federal Reserve)曾使用量化宽松举措为美国经济注入大量货币。
Starting next month, the E.C.B. will begin buying asset-backed securities: packages of home loans, business loans or even credit card debt, which banks bundle and sell to investors.
从下个月开始，欧洲央行将开始购买资产担保证券，即由住房贷款、企业贷款，甚至信用卡债打包而成的证券。银行将这些贷款打包为证券后出售给了投资者。
For good measure, the central bank also cut interest rates again.
另外，欧洲央行还再次下调了利率。
The rate at which the E.C.B. issues short-term loans to banks fell to 0.05 percent from 0.15 percent. The central bank also increased the fee it imposes on banks to store money at the E.C.B., to 0.2 percent from 0.1 percent. That so-called negative deposit rate, first instituted in June, has already pushed some market interest rates below zero.
欧洲央行把对商业银行短期贷款的利率从0.15%下调到0.05%，对于银行在央行存放资金的收费也从0.1%提高到0.2%。这种所谓的负存款利率最初于今年6月实行，已经把一些市场利率压低为负值。
The collective goal is to kick-start lending. In effect, the central bank will pump money into the financial system using the asset purchases, then charge banks if they park the money rather than put it to more productive use like loans to businesses or consumers.
这些措施的共同目标是刺激贷款。实际上，央行将通过资产购买，向金融体系注入资金，但如果银行把资金囤积起来，而不是用于能够产生价值的用途，比如借给企业或消费者，央行就会向这些银行收取费用。
The moves appeased the market, at least at the outset. Stock and bond prices rose on Thursday. The euro fell sharply against the dollar, a boon for European exporters, since it makes their cars, wine and other goods cheaper abroad. And economists generally welcomed the moves as a sign that the central bank was pulling out all the stops to prevent the eurozone from slipping back into recession.
这些措施缓和了市场的焦虑，至少目前是这样。股票和债券市场周四都出现上扬。欧元兑美元汇率大幅下跌，这对欧洲出口企业是一个利好消息，因为这会让他们的汽车、葡萄酒和其他商品在海外的价格更低。经济学家大都欢迎这些举措，他们认为，这代表着央行正想尽一切办法防止欧元区重新陷入衰退。
But even Mr. Draghi conceded that the measures would be ineffective unless political leaders in the eurozone overcame their gridlock and took concerted action to stimulate the regional economy. “It’s very difficult for us to reach our objective” using monetary policy alone, Mr. Draghi said at a news conference. Referring to political leaders, he said, “Each of us has to do their own jobs.”
但德拉吉承认，如果欧元区的政治领导人不打破僵局，采取一致行动刺激该地区的经济，这些举措就不会起作用。德拉吉在新闻发布会上表示，只靠货币政策“很难达到我们的目标”。他在谈到政治领导人时表示，“我们每一个人都得做好自己的工作。”
As the markets start to digest the E.C.B.’s latest strategy, the initial euphoria might fade.
随着市场开始感受欧洲央行的最新策略，最初的兴奋可能会慢慢消退。
The details of the bond-buying program were vague. The central bank offered little information about how much money the measures would pump into the economy. Mr. Draghi said that was partly because of the lack of data on how many assets would meet E.C.B. quality standards.
债券购买计划的细节并不明确。欧洲央行没有说明，这些举措会向经济体系注入多少资金。德拉吉表示，这部分是因为目前缺少数据，不知道有多少资产能达到欧洲央行的质量标准。
And it was unclear whether the purchases truly would qualify as Fed-style quantitative easing. Mr. Draghi said, in effect, yes and no. The program resembles quantitative easing in that the E.C.B. will purchase assets outright.
目前尚不清楚，该购买计划是否真的算得上是美联储式的量化宽松。德拉吉表示，实际上，可以说是也可以说不是。该计划与量化宽松相似的地方在于，欧洲央行会直接购买资产。
But the Fed’s quantitative easing, while including asset-backed securities, was based largely on buying up United States government debt in the form of Treasury bills and bonds. By targeting a narrower pool of assets, the E.C.B. effort will be far more modest, at least at first.
虽然美联储的量化宽松举措包括购买资产担保证券，但主要是靠买进美国政府的债务，包括短期国库券和债券。欧洲央行的举措将较小规模的资产作为目标，因此力度要小得多，至少初期是这样。
Mr. Draghi said that the central bank’s governing council was ready to take further measures if needed — a clear reference to quantitative easing, or broad-based purchases of government bonds or other assets. “The governing council is unanimous in its commitment to using additional unconventional instruments,” Mr. Draghi said at the news conference.
德拉吉表示，欧洲央行的管理委员会准备在必要时采取进一步的举措，显然指的是量化宽松，即广泛购买政府债券及其他资产。德拉吉在新闻发布会上表示，“管理委员会一致同意承诺采用其他非常规手段。”
That statement was undercut somewhat, however, by his subsequent admission that some members of the governing council had opposed the moves announced on Thursday, a sign that they would probably oppose a broader program of asset purchases. The council includes the central bank governors of the 18 countries in the eurozone.
他随后承认管理委员会的一些成员曾反对周四宣布的举措，这说明他们可能会反对较大规模的资产购买计划。这在某种程度上削弱了上述声明的可信度。该委员会的成员包括欧元区18个国家的央行行长。