ROME — European leaders were confronted on Monday with a full-blown humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean, as estimates that as many as 900 migrants may have died off the Libyan coast this weekend prompted calls for a new approach to the surging number of refugees crossing from Africa and the Middle East.
罗马——欧洲各国领导人周一在地中海遭遇了一场全面的人道主义危机：在刚刚过去的周末，多达900名移民可能在利比亚海岸附近丧生，采取新措施应对数量激增的非洲和中东难民的呼声顿起。
Even as efforts continued to collect the bodies from the sinking off Libya late Saturday and early Sunday — only 28 survivors have been found — Italian rescue ships responded to new distress calls from other vessels. A second migrant ship crashed near the Greek island of Rhodes, underscoring the relentless flow of people fleeing poverty, persecution and war.
周六夜里和周日早上，寻找利比亚附近沉船事故遇难者遗体的行动仍在进行——只有28具遗体被找到，意大利的救援船只同时还回应了来自其他船只的紧急呼叫。又有一艘移民船在希腊罗德岛附近触礁，突显出逃离贫穷、迫害和战争的移民正源源不断地涌来。
European foreign ministers met in Luxembourg to discuss how to respond, which has left governments trying to balance humanitarian responsibilities against budget constraints and widespread public sentiment against immigration. Italy’s representative pushed for Europe to make “major commitments” to confront the crisis and European heads of government scheduled an emergency session for Thursday.
欧洲各国外长已经在卢森堡会面，讨论如何进行应对，与此同时，各国政府正试图做出平衡，一方面要承担人道主义责任，另一方面要考虑预算限制，以及公众对移民的广泛情绪。意大利的与会代表要求欧洲做出“切实承诺”来应对这场危机，欧洲各国首脑计划周四召开一次紧急会议。
The disaster also underscored how Libya, reeling from violence and political turmoil, has become a haven for human smuggling rings along the African coastline. In Rome, the prime ministers of Italy and Malta on Monday called for targeted, nonmilitary intervention against Libya’s human traffickers.
这场灾难还突显出，卷入暴力和政治混乱的利比亚已经成了沿非洲海岸线人员偷渡活动的据点。意大利和马耳他总理周一在罗马呼吁，对利比亚的人贩子进行有针对性的非军事干预。
This year’s death toll in the Mediterranean Sea is thought to have already surpassed 1,500 victims — a drastic spike from the same period last year. With the arrival of warmer weather, the number of migrants on smuggler boats has risen sharply, with more than 11,000 people being rescued during the first 17 days of April. Migrants also now seem to be coming from a larger geographic area — from Bangladesh and Afghanistan in Asia; Syria and Iraq in the Middle East; and African nations such as Gambia, Somalia, Mali and Eritrea.
今年在地中海丧生的移民据信已超过了1500人——较去年同期出现了显著上升。随着天气转暖，偷渡船上的移民者数量大幅增加，4月1号到17号，有超过1.1万人获救。移民现在似乎来自更大的地理范围——亚洲的孟加拉国和阿富汗；中东的叙利亚和伊拉克；以及冈比亚、索马里、马里和厄立特里亚等非洲国家。
“What happened on Sunday was a game changer,” Prime Minister Joseph Muscat of Malta said at a news conference with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy. “There is a new realization that if Europe doesn’t act as a team, history will judge it very harshly, as it did when it closed its eyes to stories of genocide — horrible stories — not long ago.”
“周日的事件改变了一切，”马耳他总理约瑟夫·穆斯卡特(Joseph Muscat)在与意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)的联合新闻发布会上说，“我们认识到，如果欧洲国家不作为一个团队采取行动，会遭到历史的严厉谴责，就像不久以前，它对种族屠杀的恐怖事件袖手旁观的时候一样。”
An Italian Coast Guard ship was expected to deliver 28 survivors to the Sicilian port city of Catania late on Monday. The ship, the Bruno Gregoretti, had already delivered the 24 bodies recovered at sea to Malta, where health officials had begun conducting autopsies. Italian prosecutors in Catania have begun a criminal probe into the sinking. Investigators were aboard the Coast Guard ship to question survivors.
预计周一晚间，意大利海警船布鲁诺·格雷戈雷蒂号(Bruno Gregoretti)将把28名幸存者送到西西里岛港口城市卡塔尼亚。这艘船已经把在海上寻找到的24具遗体运到了马耳他，那里的卫生官员已经开始进行尸检。卡塔尼亚的意大利检方已经开始对沉船事故进行刑事调查。调查人员在这艘海警船上对幸存者进行了问讯。
Giovanni Salvi, the lead prosecutor in Catania, said his team had already debriefed a Bangladeshi survivor who had been taken by helicopter to Sicily on Sunday. The survivor described a three-tiered vessel teeming with migrants from Tunisia, Nigeria, Egypt, Somalia, Zambia and Bangladesh.
卡塔尼亚首席检察官吉奥范尼·萨尔维(Giovanni Salvi)说，他的团队已经询问了一名孟加拉籍的幸存者，后者已于周日被送到西西里岛。这名幸存者描述说，这艘船有三层，载满了来自突尼斯、尼日利亚、埃及、索马里、赞比亚和孟加拉国的移民。
“A few hundred people were forced to enter the hold, the lowest level, and locked up so that they would not climb up,” Mr. Salvi said during a televised news conference on Monday. He said the Bangladeshi survivor estimated that 250 women and 50 children were also aboard.
“数百人被迫进入最底层的空间，被锁了起来，防止他们爬到上面去，”萨尔维周一在电视直播的新闻发布会上说。他说，这名孟加拉幸存者估计，船上有250名妇女和50名儿童。
Mr. Salvi cautioned that estimating the death toll should be done with “extreme cautiousness.” He said the Bangladeshi survivor estimated that 950 people had been onboard the vessel, while other survivors told members of the Italian Coast Guard that the figure was closer to 700. He said the vessel was sunk in deep waters and had not yet been precisely located or photographed.
萨尔维提醒说，在估计死亡人数时应该“格外谨慎”。他说，这名孟加拉籍幸存者估计，船上有950人，而其他幸存者则对意大利海岸警卫队表示，这个数字更接近700人。他说，这艘船沉入了深海，尚未找到准确位置，也没有拍到船的照片。
“If these figures are confirmed,” he added, “it is understandable why so few bodies have been recovered. The majority didn’t have the chance to escape and would have sunk with the boat.”
“如果这些数字得到证实，”他接着说，“就可以理解为什么只找到了这么少的遇难者遗体。多数遇难者没有机会逃出来，可能已经与船一同沉入水中。”
The prosecutor also noted that the ship likely began its journey in Egypt and then made several stops along the African coastline, collecting more migrants before turning toward Italy. He said his office was also investigating the causes of why the boat capsized, including reports from a merchant ship that had been diverted for rescue efforts that the boat toppled after migrants rushed to one side.
检方还指出，这艘船很可能是从埃及出发的，随后在非洲的海岸线上停靠过几次，搭载了更多移民后，才开始前往意大利。他说，他的机构也在调查翻船的原因，其中一艘专程去救援的商船称，船是在移民者冲向一侧之后才倾覆的。
Meanwhile, Italian ships on Monday responded to two new distress calls in the Mediterranean: one was an inflatable raft with 100 to 150 people near the Libyan coast as well as a separate vessel holding 300 people. Earlier, a distress call had come into the Rome office of the International Organization for Migration, an advocacy group, which alerted the Italian Coast guard.
与此同时，周一，意大利的船只在地中海上又响应了两起紧急呼叫：其中一个来自利比亚海岸附近一艘载有100至150人的充气筏，以及一艘载有300人的船只，两船没有关联。早些时候，倡导机构国际移民组织(International Organization for Migration)的罗马办公室接到了一个紧急呼叫，后来通知了意大利海岸警卫队。
Joel Millman, a spokesman for the organization, said the caller suggested that as many as three boats had been in distress. “One of the boats called our office and said a boat was taking on water and that they thought that 20 people were dead,” said Mr. Millman, noting that the account could not yet be confirmed.
该组织的发言人乔尔·米尔曼(Joel Millman)称，呼叫者表示，多达三艘船只陷入了困境。“其中一艘船呼叫了我们的办公室，称有一艘船已经进水，他们认为有20人已经遇难，”米尔曼说。他指出，这个数字没有得到证实。