SINTRA, Portugal — I’ll be spending the next couple of days at a forum sponsored by the European Central Bank whose de facto topic — whatever it may say on the program — will be the destructive monetary muddle caused by the Continent’s premature adoption of a single currency. What makes the story even sadder is that Europe’s financial and macroeconomic woes have overshadowed its remarkable, unheralded longer-term success in an area in which it used to lag: job creation.
葡萄牙辛特拉——未来几天，我将参加欧洲央行(European Central Bank)赞助的一个论坛。无论日程表上是怎么描述的，这个论坛的真正议题将是欧洲大陆过早采用单一货币所引起的破坏性财政混乱。让这个话题更加伤感的是，由于欧洲的金融和宏观经济困境，人们都忽视了欧洲在另一领域出人意料的更长期的卓越成就：创造就业。要知道，在这方面，欧洲曾经落后于其他地区。
What? You haven’t heard about that? Well, that’s not too surprising. European economies, France in particular, get very bad press in America. Our political discourse is dominated by reverse Robin-Hoodism — the belief that economic success depends on being nice to the rich, who won’t create jobs if they are heavily taxed, and nasty to ordinary workers, who won’t accept jobs unless they have no alternative. And according to this ideology, Europe — with its high taxes and generous welfare states — does everything wrong. So Europe’s economic system must be collapsing, and a lot of reporting simply states the postulated collapse as a fact.
什么？你不知道这回事？好吧，这不奇怪。美国媒体对欧洲经济体的报道很负面，尤其是对法国的报道。占据我们政治讨论的主要是罗宾汉主义的对立面：经济的成功需要“劫贫济富”——如果对富人课以重税，他们就没法创造就业了；而除非穷人别无选择，否则就不会安心工作。依照这种想法，高税率、福利优厚的欧洲国家一无是处。因此，欧洲的经济体系必定在瓦解，而且大量新闻报道都把这种想象中的瓦解直接当成了事实。
The reality, however, is very different. Yes, Southern Europe is experiencing an economic crisis thanks to that money muddle. But Northern European nations, France included, have done far better than most Americans realize. In particular, here’s a startling, little-known fact: French adults in their prime working years (25 to 54) are substantially more likely to have jobs than their U.S. counterparts.
然而，现实却截然相反。是的，由于货币引发的混乱，欧州南部正在经历经济危机。但包括法国在内，欧州北部国家的表现要比大多数美国人认为的要好得多。特别值得一提的是，还有一个鲜为人知却十分惊人的事实：处于黄金劳动年龄（25到54岁）的法国人找工作要比美国的同龄人更容易。
It wasn’t always that way. Back in the 1990s Europe really did have big problems with job creation; the phenomenon even received a catchy name, “Eurosclerosis.” And it seemed obvious what the problem was: Europe’s social safety net had, as Representative Paul Ryan likes to warn, become a “hammock” that undermined initiative and encouraged dependency.
情况并非一贯如此。上世纪90年代，欧洲在就业方面的确困难重重；这种现象甚至有一个朗朗上口的名字，“欧洲硬化症”(Eurosclerosis)。而问题的本质看似显而易见：就像众议员保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)经常警告的那样，欧洲的社会福利网已经成为了一个“吊床”，它削弱了主动性，助长了依赖性。
But then a funny thing happened: Europe started doing much better, while America started doing much worse. France’s prime-age employment rate overtook America’s early in the Bush administration; at this point the gap in employment rates is bigger than it was in the late 1990s, this time in France’s favor. Other European nations with big welfare states, like Sweden and the Netherlands, do even better.
但是后来，有趣的事发生了：欧洲的就业状况开始大幅改善，而美国却一落千丈。在布什政府上台不久，法国黄金年龄段的就业率超过了美国；两国目前的就业率差距比上世纪90年代末还大，而这次是法国领先。其他高福利的欧洲国家的表现还要更好，比如瑞典和荷兰。
Now, young French citizens are still a lot less likely to have jobs than their American counterparts — but a large part of that difference reflects the fact that France provides much more aid to students, so that they don’t have to work their way through school. Is that a bad thing? Also, the French take more vacations and retire earlier than we do, and you can argue that the incentives for early retirement in particular are too generous. But on the core issue of providing jobs for people who really should be working, at this point old Europe is beating us hands down despite social benefits and regulations that, according to free-market ideologues, should be hugely job-destroying.
如今，法国年轻人的就业率仍然大大低于美国同龄人——但这主要是因为，法国为学生提供的经济援助远远多于美国，所以，他们不需要勤工俭学。这是坏事吗？还有，法国人的假期比我们多，退休比我们早。你可能会说，法国激励早早退休的措施实在太慷慨了。但在向真正应该工作的人提供就业机会的核心问题上，欧洲如今轻松地把我们打败了，虽然根据自由市场强硬派的说法，社会福利和市场监管应该极大地破坏就业。
Oh, and for those who believe that out-of-work Americans, coddled by government benefits, just aren’t trying to find jobs, we’ve just performed a cruel experiment using the worst victims of our job crisis as subjects. At the end of last year Congress refused to renew extended jobless benefits, cutting off millions of unemployed Americans. Did the long-term unemployed who were thereby placed in dire straits start finding jobs more rapidly than before? No — not at all. Somehow, it seems, the only thing we achieved by making the unemployed more desperate was deepening their desperation.
有人认为，美国的失业者是因为被政府福利照顾得太安逸，所以不努力找工作。对了，我们刚刚进行了一场残忍的实验，实验对象就是就业危机中那些最可怜的受害者。去年底，国会拒绝为长期失业救济延期，切断了数百万失业者的经济来源。由此陷入绝境的长期失业者更快地找到工作了吗？不，丝毫没有。不过，通过让失业者更绝望，我们似乎只做到了一件事，那就是加深了他们的绝望。
I’m sure that many people will simply refuse to believe what I’m saying about European strengths. After all, ever since the euro crisis broke out there has been a relentless campaign by American conservatives (and quite a few Europeans too) to portray it as a story of collapsing welfare states, brought low by misguided concerns about social justice. And they keep saying that even though some of the strongest economies in Europe, like Germany, have welfare states whose generosity exceeds the wildest dreams of U.S. liberals.
我相信，许多人会断然否认我说的欧洲的种种优势。毕竟，自从欧元区危机爆发之后，美国的保守派人士（以及不少欧洲人）就锲而不舍地将其描述为福利国家瓦解的证据，认为这些国家因为对社会正义的杞人忧天而被拖下水。他们喋喋不休地说着，完全看不到这一点：欧洲最强经济体的福利制度也十分慷慨，其程度是美国自由派做梦都不敢想的，比如德国。
But macroeconomics, as I keep trying to tell people, isn’t a morality play, where virtue is always rewarded and vice always punished. On the contrary, severe financial crises and depressions can happen to economies that are fundamentally very strong, like the United States in 1929. The policy mistakes that created the euro crisis — mainly creating a unified currency without the kind of banking and fiscal union that a single currency demands — basically had nothing to do with the welfare state, one way or another.
但是，就像我一直努力告诉人们的，宏观经济学并不是一出道德剧，总能善有善报，恶有恶报。相反，严重的金融危机和萧条可能会发生在基本面非常强劲的经济体，比如1929年的美国。无论如何，引发了欧元区危机的政策失误——主要是在缺少单一货币所需要的那种银行业和财政联盟的情况下，推行了欧元——基本上与福利制度无关。
The truth is that European-style welfare states have proved more resilient, more successful at job creation, than is allowed for in America’s prevailing economic philosophy.
真实的情况是，与美国主流的经济理念相比，欧洲式的福利制度更具弹性，在创造就业方面也更加富有成效。