HAMBURG, Germany — When we met him in The Hague the other day, Geert Wilders, chief of the Dutch far-right Party of Freedom, maintained that he was not, in fact, Vladimir V. Putin’s best ally in Europe.
德国汉堡——前几天我们在海牙见到荷兰极右翼政党自由党(Party of Freedom)党魁海尔特·维尔德斯(Geert Wilders)的时候，他坚持称，自己实际上并不是普京在欧洲的最佳盟友。
My colleague and I had asserted that he and the Russian president had a shared interest: They both wanted to weaken the European Union — Mr. Putin from outside, Mr. Wilders from within. “Nonsense,” he said. “I don’t need Putin.”
我和同事提出，他与普京都对同一件事感兴趣：两人都希望削弱欧洲联盟——普京从外面，维尔德斯则从里面着手。“胡说，”他说。“我不需要普京。”
But that was a dodge. Whether he needs Mr. Putin or not, Mr. Wilders and the rest of the European far right are coming together in their belief that, as the Ukraine crisis shows, Europe has long been punching above its weight, and that it is now paying the price.
但这是答非所问。无论他是否需要普京，维尔德斯和欧洲其他地方的极右翼党派，都出于共同的信念走到了一起：他们相信，欧洲长期以来的所作所为都超过了自身实力，而现在它正在为此付出代价，乌克兰的危机就显示出了这一点。
In the past, Mr. Wilders raged against Islam, calling it fascist and demanding a ban on the Quran. Now the self-described freedom fighter is using the same approach to what he regards as the second-greatest danger to Europe’s liberty: the strangulation of sovereign nations by bureaucrats in Brussels.
过去，维尔德斯曾大肆攻击伊斯兰教，称之为法西斯，还要求查禁《古兰经》。现在，自称自由斗士的他，又在以同样的做法，来对付他眼中欧洲自由的第二大威胁：布鲁塞尔官僚对主权国家的扼杀。
He’s not alone. Practically every country has its own version of the Tea Party, each striving to do away with the euro or even with the European Union altogether. They see their big day coming on Sunday, when 380 million Europeans will finish electing the European Parliament. In Italy it is the Five Star League, in France it is the National Front, in Britain it is the U.K. Independence Party.
他并不是一个人。几乎每个欧洲国家都有类似茶党(Tea Party)的政党，在努力摆脱欧元乃至完全脱离欧盟。他们认为自己的大日子将在本周末来临，届时3.8亿欧洲人将完成欧洲议会(European Parliament)的选举。意大利有五星联盟(Five Star League)，法国有国民阵线(National Front)，英国有独立党(UK Independence Party)。
They all see the vote as a referendum on an overstretched 28-nation bloc and a common currency that condemns their peoples to agonizing austerity measures. Polls see the parties winning up to 25 percent of the seats.
他们都把这次投票视为一次公投，对这个心有余而力不足的28国集团及其共同货币进行的公投。这个集团用痛苦的紧缩措施来惩罚它的民众。民意调查显示，这些党派有望赢得多达25%的席位。
All of this is happening at a time when Russia is trying to roll back the European Union’s influence in the east. To be fair, Mr. Wilders has been critical of Mr. Putin’s actions in Crimea and eastern Ukraine. Still, the Russian leader could hardly wish for better friends these days than the anti-Union agitators. The European elections are taking place on the same day as presidential elections in Ukraine. It’s not hard to imagine that, after Syria, Snowden, Sochi and Simferopol, Mr. Putin’s propaganda machine will try to add Strasbourg to the list of Russia’s victories.
与此同时发生的，是俄罗斯在东边努力抵制欧盟的影响。公平地说，维尔德斯批评了普京在克里米亚和乌克兰东部的行动。不过这些日子以来，这些反欧盟的煽动者，恐怕是普京希望得到的最好的朋友了。欧洲议会选举和乌克兰总统选举将在同一天进行。不难想象，在叙利亚、斯诺登(Snowden)、索契和辛菲罗波尔等事件之后，普京的宣传机构会努力宣扬，俄罗斯在斯特拉斯堡也宣扬为俄罗斯的胜利。
And if Mr. Wilders demurs on his relationship with Russia, others don’t. “I think we can be a good partner for Russia in the European Parliament,” said Filip Dewinter of the Belgian right-wing party Vlaams Belang. Indeed, leading representatives from Mr. Putin’s United Russia party have already visited with Europe’s anti-Union activists, returning the good wishes.
尽管维尔德斯反驳了他和俄罗斯之间关系的说法，有些人却没有。“我认为，我们可以在欧洲议会中成为俄罗斯的好伙伴，”比利时右翼政党弗拉芒利益党(Vlaams Belang)党魁菲利普·德温特(Filip Dewinter)表示。确实，普京所在的统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)的主要代表已经拜访过欧洲的一些反欧盟活动人士，对他们的美好祝愿予以回馈。
The mutual attraction is more than the usual enemy-of-my-enemy scheme. It is the promise of a new model of modernity that unites Europe’s anti-establishment movement with Mr. Putin’s neo-imperialism. Both reject multilateralism and international frameworks. Both are nationalist and anti-immigrant.
这种相互吸引不仅仅是通常那种“敌人的敌人就是我的朋友”的情况。把欧洲的反体制运动与普京的新帝国主义联合起来的，是对一种新的现代性模式的期盼。双方都反对多边主义和国际框架，都是民族主义者，都反对移民。
Both draw a similar set of lessons from the post-Cold War era. It is not the strength of law that has triumphed since the fall of the Soviet Union, they argue, but the law of the strongest. America may have claimed to act in the interest of multilateralism in Serbia and Iraq, they say, but it could do what it wanted because of its strength. How dare anyone then criticize Russia’s grip on Crimea? Geopolitics never disappeared; the West has just disguised them with concepts that sound less evil.
双方都从后冷战时代总结出了一套相似的经验教训。他们认为，苏联解体后，胜利的不是法律的力量，而是最强者的意志。他们提出，尽管美国自称在塞尔维亚和伊拉克是在遵循多边主义行事，但美国之所以能做到自己想做的事情，是因为它有实力这样做。怎么会有人胆敢指责俄罗斯占据克里米亚呢？地缘政治角力从未消失，西方只不过是用听起来不那么邪恶的概念，把它们包装起来了而已。
There’s a second link between the European far right and Mr. Putin. It is the nostalgia over lost worlds, over simple social and moral orders that — with the whitewashing effect of oblivion — appear preferable to today’s complexity. In the West it is a form of conservative communalism; in Russia it is a pining for the black-and-white world of the Warsaw Pact.
欧洲极右势力和普京之间还有第二个相似之处，那就是怀念昔日的世界，怀念简单的社会和道德秩序。遗忘带来了美化效果，于是昔日的世界相对于今天的复杂局面，显得似乎更加美好。在西方，这是保守的地方自治主义的一种形式；在俄罗斯，这是对华沙条约(Warsaw Pact)那种非黑即白的世界的怀念。
A quarter century on, many Russians blame “democratization” for social disintegration, loss of certainties, corruption and chaos. In Europe, globalization is blamed for a loss of political accountability as well as a frightening increase of market powers.
这25年来，很多俄罗斯人指责“民主化”造成了社会瓦解、各种不确定性，以及腐败和混乱。在欧洲，一些人指责全球化导致了政治问责的消失，以及市场力量的可怕壮大。
The truth is, the European right isn’t completely wrong. Supranational politics, particularly of the overbureaucratized kind practiced by the European Union, has its flaws.
事实是，欧洲右翼的说法并非完全错误。超越国家的政治机制，特别是欧盟采取的过度官僚化的模式，确实存在缺陷。
But we should be able to work them out without stepping back in history. Yes, the realities of today’s West are harsher than those before 1989: The market is more powerful, and it takes more work to maintain the same quality of life. But the chances to do so, to create one’s own future, have also risen immeasurably since 1989. Giving up on these complexities for a sepia-tinted quiet life, as the friends of Mr. Putin propose, means giving up on opportunity and freedom.
但是，我们不需要历史的倒退，应该就能解决这些问题。是的，今天西方的现实状况比1989年之前更加严峻：市场的力量更加强大，人们需要付出更多的努力才能维持之前的生活质量。但是这么做的机会，以及自己开创未来的机会，自1989年以来也有了巨大的发展。如果像普京的朋友们建议的那样，仅仅因为遇到复杂的局面就放弃，回到红褐色调的平静生活，那就意味着放弃机遇和自由。
One reason these parties have achieved as large a following as they have is that the traditional, centrist European parties have yet to take a clear stand. It is not a matter of taking on Russia explicitly, which many have been loath to do. With the elections only days away, it may be too late to make a difference this time. The European Union’s leaders must take up the fight between tomorrow’s world and yesterday’s.
这些政党之所以获得了目前这么多的追随者，一个原因是传统的欧洲中间派政党还没有表明立场。并不是说要公开对抗俄罗斯，很多人并不愿意那么做。选举只有几天之遥，现在再做什么事情可能也已经来不及了。欧盟领导人必须承担起明日世界和昔日世界之间的斗争。