LONDON — When the United States declared war on Al Qaeda after the Sept. 11 attacks, American leaders took the fight to the militant group’s hide-outs in Afghanistan, a faraway and failing state, with an invasion and occupation.
伦敦——“9·11事件”爆发后，美国对基地组织宣战时，其领导人采用了入侵和占领的方式，对该武装组织位于阿富汗的藏身之地发起了打击，那是一个与美国相距遥远的问题国家。
But for Europe’s leaders, who now consider themselves at war with the Islamic State after large-scale terrorist attacks at home, the challenge is more complicated: The enemy’s hide-outs are ghettoized parts of Paris, Brussels and other European cities that amount to mini failed states inside their own borders.
当大规模恐怖袭击在欧洲本土发生之后，欧洲领导人现在认为自己与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)处在战争状态，但他们面临的挑战更加复杂：因为敌人藏身在巴黎、布鲁塞尔和其他欧洲城市里的少数族裔聚居区，那是它们自己境内的问题国家。
While France and Britain have joined the United States in bombing Islamic State targets in the Syrian city of Raqqa and other areas controlled by the group, also known as ISIS and ISIL, Europe has faced a much harder time understanding and dealing with its own citizens who have abetted the Islamic State’s ascent. These are mostly third-generation Muslim immigrants, who have become radicalized in poor communities left to develop outside the national culture.
伊斯兰国也称为ISIS和ISIL。虽然法国和英国已经在与美国一道，对叙利亚城市拉卡以及被该组织控制的其他区域开展轰炸行动，但在理解和对待本国公民对伊斯兰国的崛起给予的支持时，欧洲面临着更困难的问题。这些人大多是第三代穆斯林移民，住在与国民文化脱节的贫困社区，逐渐变成了激进分子。
Those communities are incubators that figure prominently in the Islamic State’s two attacks on Paris since January 2015, and the triple bombing on Tuesday in Brussels.
伊斯兰国自2015年1月以来对巴黎发起的两起袭击，以及本周二在布鲁塞尔发生的三连环爆炸案中，这些社区发挥了孵化作用，扮演了重大角色。
Resolving the problem, political analysts say, does not require simply more intelligence cooperation and shared lists of people suspected of being radicals and fighters returning from Syria. European governments must also develop internal strategies to deal with the threat at home — the deep social problems of racism and radicalism, along with the security dilemma, which raises concerns about surveillance, justice and civil liberties.
政治分析人士说，解决这个问题不仅仅需要加强情报合作、共享疑似激进分子以及从叙利亚返回的作战人员的名单。欧洲各国政府也必须制定内部策略，应对本国境内的威胁——种族主义和极端主义构成了深刻的社会问题，此外还有安保方面的两难局面，因为加强安全引发了民众对监控、司法和公民自由的担忧。
“You can bomb Raqqa, and you may consider that to be war, but you’re not going to bomb Molenbeek or Schaerbeek or St.-Denis, unless you’re ready for civil war,” said François Heisbourg, president of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, referring to heavily Muslim areas of Brussels and Paris.
“你可以轰炸拉卡，可能觉得那是战争，但你没办法轰炸莫伦贝克、斯哈尔贝克或圣但尼，除非你准备打内战，”国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)所长弗朗索瓦·埃斯堡(François Heisbourg)说。他指的是布鲁塞尔和巴黎的穆斯林聚居区。
President François Hollande of France and his prime minister, Manuel Valls, have repeatedly described Europe’s fight against the Islamic State as war; Mr. Heisbourg called that an “extremely dangerous” use of the word.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)和总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)曾多次把欧洲对伊斯兰国的打击称为战争；埃斯堡说，那是一个“极其危险”的词。
“It starts with Raqqa and can end up with the Algerian civil war, and that would be the ultimate victory of Daesh,” he said, using an Arabic term for the Islamic State. “They want to divide our societies against ourselves.”
“它从拉卡开始，可能会以阿尔及利亚内战而告终，但那将是‘达伊沙’(Daesh)的最终胜利，他们希望我们的社会自相残杀，”他说。达伊沙是阿拉伯语，指伊斯兰国。
Even more, Mr. Heisbourg argued, “talking of war dignifies Daesh, which wants to be seen as having a state and an army of warriors and martyrs.” For angry, poor and isolated young Muslims in Europe, “to be seen as the downtrodden victims of Western colonialism and iniquity, fighting the holy war against the arrayed legions of the crusaders,” is precisely what the Islamic State advertises.
更进一步说，埃斯堡认为，“说那是战争，是在助长达伊沙的士气，因为它希望大家认为它拥有国家、战士和烈士。”对于欧洲那些愤怒、贫穷、被孤立的穆斯林年轻人来说，“把自己看成是遭受西方殖民主义和不公正对待的受害者，参加对抗十字军的圣战”恰恰是伊斯兰国的宣传方针。
The dual nature of the European struggle against the Islamic State separates it from the American “global war on terrorism” and deeply complicates it, argued Raffaello Pantucci, director of international security studies at the Royal United Services Institute, a defense-oriented research institution.
防务研究机构皇家三军联合研究所(Royal UnitedServices Institute)的国际安全研究主管拉菲洛·潘图奇(Raffaello Pantucci)说，由于欧洲与伊斯兰国的对抗具有这种双重性，它不仅和美国的“全球反恐战争”不同，而且复杂性倍增。
“We need a dual response,” he said, more bellicose on the Islamic State abroad but less bellicose at home, emphasizing longer-term social work in isolated and disenfranchised communities.
“我们需要予以双重回应，”他说，在境外要更积极地对抗伊斯兰国，但在境内不要那么好斗，要强调在被孤立、权利被剥夺的社区开展长期的社会工作。
The objective, he said, is to counter radical voices who often provide paths into meaning for young men who have been petty criminals. Most of the European terrorist suspects were known to the local police.
他说，我们的目标是反对一些激进的观点，犯过轻微罪行的年轻人往往能从这些观点中找到意义。大多数欧洲恐怖嫌疑人当地警方都认识。
“There is a realization that this is not a war you can bomb or shoot your way out of, but you have to deal with individuals who are radicalized at home, to examine the reasons that they are exploring this other identity,” said Mr. Pantucci, who wrote a book on the issue: “We Love Death as You Love Life: Britain’s Suburban Terrorists.”
“人们认识到，这不是一场靠轰炸或开枪就能结束的战争，你必须对付本国境内的激进分子，了解他们探索这种另类身份的原因，”潘图奇说。他曾经就这个问题写了一本书，名为《我们热爱死亡就像你们热爱生命：英国的郊区恐怖分子》(We Love Death as You Love Life: Britain’s Suburban Terrorists)。
Important pockets of the disenfranchised and isolated are embedded in most European countries, he said: Bradford in England, heavily Kashmiri and home to the London subway bombers of July 7, 2005; largely Muslim East Birmingham, where organized crime and radicalism spring from the same roots; and the heavily immigrant suburbs or banlieues of France’s big cities.
他说，大多数欧洲国家都有一些被孤立、权利被剥夺的重要社区：比如英国的布拉德福德是克什米尔人密集区，2005年7月7日伦敦地铁爆炸案主犯就来自那里；以穆斯林为主的东伯明翰，滋生了有组织犯罪和极端主义；还有法国大城市的郊区，移民密集的地方。
Belgium, already divided by language and with a plethora of local and state federalisms and police forces, provides a special example. More so than elsewhere, Belgium allowed the self-ghettoization, or self-isolation, of ethnic communities in the name of multiculturalism and day-to-day peace.
比利时是一个特例，它被不同的语言所割裂，拥有过多的本地和国家联邦机制以及警察部队。比利时以维持族群多元化，维持日常相安无事为名，对自我形成贫民窟的过程，或者自我隔离的状况放任不管，程度更甚于其他国家。
Mr. Heisbourg said that the result was “a disaster for counterterrorism.” These were “no-go areas for the authorities, who have found it very difficult to get informants and human intelligence,” noting that many of the French citizens who carried out attacks in France lived or were hosted in Brussels neighborhoods like Molenbeek.
埃斯堡说，结果就形成了“反恐活动的重灾区”。这里有“主管机构去不了的地方，他们很难找到线人和情报提供者”，他指出，很多参加了法国袭击行动的法国公民就住在布鲁塞尔的居民区，比如莫伦贝克。
Some political scientists, like Olivier Roy, a scholar of Islam at the European University Institute, argue that Islam is not the cause of radicalization, but serves neatly as the vehicle for radicalized anger from disenfranchised Muslim youth.
欧洲大学学院(European University Institute)伊斯兰教学者奥利维尔·罗伊(Olivier Roy)和其他一些政治学家认为，伊斯兰教不是激进化的原因，但对于权力遭到剥夺的穆斯林青年来说，它是怒气激进化的一个很好载体。
For that, Europe has few easy answers, especially as the Islamic State seeks to manipulate European fears of terrorism and migration. Gilles Kepel, a French sociologist who has studied radical Islam and the banlieues, has argued that part of the Islamic State’s intention is to mobilize fears of the “enemy within,” create further rejection of European Muslim citizens and radicalize them at home, to create a kind of civil war between European Muslims and the “crusader states.”
在这一点上，欧洲几乎没有容易的解决办法，尤其是在伊斯兰国试图操纵欧洲对恐怖主义和移民的恐惧时。研究伊斯兰教激进派和郊区问题的社会学家吉勒·凯佩尔(Gilles Kepel)称，伊斯兰国的部分意图是调动对“内部敌人”的恐惧，造成欧洲穆斯林民众受到进一步的排斥，从而让他们在国内变得激进，以便在欧洲穆斯林和十字军国家之间制造一种内战。
In dealing with terrorism through denial of nationality, abuses of civil liberties or an indefinite state of emergency, Mr. Heisbourg warned “you may create the conditions where you end up with the civil war in European societies that Daesh clearly wants.”
埃斯堡警告称，用拒绝入籍、滥用公民自由或宣布无限期紧急状态来应对恐怖主义，“可能会为欧洲社会最终爆发内战创造条件，而这显然正是达伊什(Daesh)所希望的”。