WASHINGTON — The angry protests from Germany’s chancellor over the National Security Agency’s monitoring of her cellphone and France’s furor over the collection of data about millions of its citizens have obscured a new reality: The digital age has merely expanded the ability of nations to do to one another what they have done for centuries.
华盛顿——德国总理对美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）监听其手机的愤怒抗议，以及NSA收集数百万法国公民的数据引起的轩然大波，遮蔽了一个最新的现实：各国之间在过去几个世纪里一直如此行事，数码时代只不过提高了相关的能力而已。
But at the same time, it has allowed the Europeans, the Chinese and other powers to replicate N.S.A. techniques.
与此同时，它也使欧洲、中国和其他大国拥有了复制NSA技术的能力。
France has long been considered one of the most talented powers at stealing industrial secrets and intellectual property, intelligence officials say, although in recent years it has been pushed to the sidelines by the Chinese. Their daily cyberattacks have worked their way into the Pentagon and gotten them the blueprints for the F-35, the most expensive fighter jet in history.
情报官员表示，法国长期以来一直被认为是窃取工业机密和知识产权的能手之一，虽然在最近几年，法国与中国相比已经是小巫见大巫。中国人日常的网络攻击活动已经入侵了五角大楼，并由此获得了F-35的设计图。F-35是有史以来最昂贵的战斗机。
The Russians have a reputation in the intelligence community for taking their time to infiltrate specific communications targets. “They are a lot more patient than the Chinese,” one former American intelligence official said recently, “and so they don’t get caught as often.”
俄罗斯人在情报领域以对具体通讯目标缓慢渗透而闻名。一名前美国情报官员最近说，“他们比中国人耐心多了，所以他们不那么经常地被逮住。”
The Israelis are well known for cooperating with the United States on major intelligence targets, mostly Iran, while using a combination of old-fashioned spies and sophisticated electronic techniques to decipher Washington’s internal debates, the officials say.
这些官员们说，以色列人因为与美国在重大情报目标上的合作而闻名，目标主要是伊朗。同时，以色列还结合了传统的间谍和复杂的电子技术，来破解华盛顿的内部讨论内容。
Long before Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany waved a new, encrypted cellphone at reporters on Thursday in Brussels — a way to foil the N.S.A., the German leader suggested, although maybe it arrived in her hand a little late — President Obama got an early primer on how vulnerable national leaders are to espionage of all sorts.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)周四在布鲁塞尔面对记者挥舞着一款新的加密手机——显示她找到了挫败NSA的方法，尽管这来的有点晚。而早在这之前，美国总统奥巴马就已经知道了国家首脑是多么容易成为各种间谍活动的目标。
Fresh from the discovery that Chinese hackers had broken into the computer systems used by his 2008 campaign, he waged a bureaucratic war to hold on to his BlackBerry. In the end, he won a partial victory when he was issued a National Security Agency-approved, heavily encrypted model, with his communications limited to a small number of advisers and old friends. (He may lose it, some officials say, if the Chinese-owned computer maker Lenovo buys the BlackBerry brand from its hemorrhaging Canadian manufacturer.)
在发现中国黑客入侵了他的2008年竞选团队的电脑系统后不久，为了继续使用他的黑莓手机，奥巴马发动了一场政府大战。最终，他取得了部分胜利，获得了一个由NSA批准的高度加密的手机，通讯对象仅限于少数几名顾问和老朋友。（一些官员们说，如果中国的电脑制造商联想[Lenovo]从处于严重亏损的加拿大黑莓制造商那里收购了这个品牌，他可能会失去这部手机。）
While it is tempting to dismiss the latest revelations with an everyone-does-it shrug, American officials now concede that the uproar in Europe about the N.S.A.’s programs — both the popular outrage and a more calculated political response by Ms. Merkel and France’s president, François Hollande — may have a broader diplomatic and economic effect than they first imagined.
尽管以“人人都在搞间谍活动”的理由来为最新的监控丑闻开脱很容易，美国的官员现在承认，NSA的项目在欧洲引起的强烈反应——既包括公众的愤怒，也包括默克尔以及法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的更为精心准备的政治回应——所引发的外交和经济方面的影响可能比他们最初想象的更加广泛。
In Washington, the reaction has set off a debate over whether it is time to put the brakes on the N.S.A., whose capabilities, Mr. Obama has hinted, have expanded faster than its judgment. There are now two groups looking at the N.S.A.’s activities: one inside the National Security Council, another with outside advisers. The president all but told Ms. Merkel that “we don’t have the balance right,” according to one official.
在华盛顿，上述反应已经激起了是否现在应该对NSA加以约束的讨论。奥巴马已暗示，NSA的能力扩张速度超过了其判断力的增速。现在有两组人在研究NSA的活动：一组在国家安全委员会(National Security Council)内部，另一组是外部的顾问。一名官员说，总统几乎告诉了默克尔，我们没有控制好平衡。
“Sure, everyone does it, but that’s been an N.S.A. excuse for too long,” one former senior official who talks to Mr. Obama often on intelligence matters said Friday. “Obama has said, publicly and privately, that just because we can do something doesn’t mean we should do it. But everyone has moved too slowly in moving that from a slogan to a policy.”
经常与奥巴马讨论情报问题的一名前高级官员周五说，“当然了，人人都搞间谍活动，但NSA不能总是用这个理由。奥巴马在公开场合和私下里都说过，仅仅是因为我们能做某事，不意味着我们就应该做这件事。但是在这句话从口号变成政策的过程中，每个人的动作都过于缓慢。”
Diplomats at the United Nations on Friday said that Germany and Brazil, two of the countries whose leaders have been subjected to N.S.A. invasions of their communications, were drafting a General Assembly resolution that would seek to strengthen Internet privacy.
联合国的外交人员上周五表示，德国和巴西正在起草一份联大决议，寻求加强互联网隐私的保护。德国和巴西等国的领导人的通讯信息都受到了NSA的监控。
The diplomats, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the drafting is still in the early stages, said momentum for the measure, begun in the summer, had been invigorated by the most recent disclosures of American eavesdropping. A formal resolution could be ready for consideration next month in what would be the first internationally coordinated response to the N.S.A. spying. Word of the German-Brazilian initiative was first reported on the Web site of Foreign Policy.
这些外交官要求匿名接受采访，因为起草工作还在早期阶段。他们说这个计划开始于今夏，因为最近披露的美国窃听丑闻而加快了步伐。下个月将出现一份正式决议以供审议，这将是国际上针对NSA间谍活动的首次协调回应。德国和巴西联手起草决议的消息是《外交政策》(Foreign Policy)网站最先报道的。
In Europe, where Ms. Merkel and Mr. Hollande demanded Friday that the United States open negotiations on a “code of conduct” that would limit surveillance, there is a sense that the steady stream of revelations may give them an upper hand. Ms. Merkel keeps repeating the phrase that the Americans must “restore trust.” One way the French and Germans intend to do that is to seek some form of inclusion in the inner circle of American intelligence allies, or at least for a deeper intelligence alliance.
默克尔和奥朗德周五提出，要求美国开启关于限制监控活动的“行为准则”的谈判。在欧洲，人们觉得，持续曝光的丑闻将让他们获得优势。默克尔反复强调，美国人必须“恢复信任”。为了做到这一点，法国和德国人打算寻求以某种程度加入美国情报盟友的内部圈子中，或至少是建立更深层次的情报联盟。
Right now that inner circle, called the “Five Eyes,” consists of the United States and four English-speaking partners: Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Those partners agree not to spy on one another and to share in many of the United States’ deepest intelligence secrets, as the trove of highly classified documents made public by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, makes clear.
目前，这个名叫“五只眼”(Five Eyes)的内部圈子包括美国及其四个英语国家伙伴：英国、加拿大、澳大利亚和新西兰。这些伙伴们同意彼此之间不实施间谍活动，并且分享美国许多最深层次的情报机密。前NSA合同工爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)公开的大批高度保密的文件也披露了这一点。
But Europe’s demands may go further than a stronger spying relationship with the United States. The European Union wants to require American companies, led by Internet powerhouses like Google and Yahoo, to get the approval of European officials before complying with warrants issued in the United States seeking information, e-mails or search histories about European citizens. The European Union would slap the technology companies with huge fines if they failed to agree to those rules, meaning that the companies would be caught between two masters and several legal systems.
但是欧洲的要求可能不仅限于与美国建立更强大的间谍伙伴关系。欧盟想让美国公司，主要是谷歌(Google)和雅虎(Yahoo)这样的互联网巨头，在根据美国的法庭命令提供欧洲公民的信息、电子邮件或搜索历史之前，首先获得欧洲官员的批准。如果它们不能同意这些规定，欧盟将会对这些科技公司处以巨额罚金，这意味着这些公司将会在两个“主人”和若干个法律体系之间腹背受敌。
Those kinds of demands would have been hard to imagine during the cold war, when European nations relied on the United States for protection from the Soviet Union, and American spying and rule-setting were tolerated.
这种要求在冷战期间是难以想象的。当时，欧洲国家面对苏联，要依赖美国的保护，因而美国的间谍活动和一手遮天的作风得到了容忍。
“We had more cushion then,” said Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who as a diplomat worked for several American presidents on the unification of Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. “This is all part of a larger distancing of the U.S. by the Europeans,” he said, one in which traditional allies cannot agree on rules for spying and rules for governing the Internet.
美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)主席理查德·N·哈斯(Richard N.Haass)说，“当时我们有更多余地。”在柏林墙倒塌之后，哈斯曾在多位美国总统手下从事有关欧洲一体化的外交工作。他说，“这都是欧洲国家疏远美国人的更大趋势的一部分”，因为传统的盟友不能就间谍活动以及互联网治理的规则达成一致。
Viewed that way, the tapping of Ms. Merkel’s phone was something of a remnant of a previous era. The tapping in fact appears to have begun roughly a decade ago, during the George W. Bush administration. Yet it is unclear what motivated the Bush administration to monitor her cellphone — she appears to have at least two, and the target apparently was her personal one — or why Mr. Obama seemed unaware that it was happening, even five years into his presidency. (His national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, assured her German counterpart that the president knew nothing about it, even while refusing to confirm that it happened.)
从这个角度来看，窃听默克尔的电话似乎是上一个时代遗留下来的产物。窃听行动事实上似乎从大约10年前乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)主政期间就开始了。然而，目前仍不清楚布什政府监听她的手机动机何在——她似乎有至少两部手机，而监听的目标似乎是她的私人手机——以及为什么奥巴马似乎在他的任期已经进入第五年时还不知道这一情况（奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯[Susan E. Rice]向德国总理保证，总统对此事一无所知，虽然她同时拒绝证实存在监听的情况）。
Mr. Obama, like his predecessors, argues that the United States taps phones and hacks into computers only to protect the world, not to gain commercial advantage. But no one in the government has admitted that the N.S.A. has been spying on Ms. Merkel, or the Mexican president, or the Brazilians, much less explained why. One thing is clear: The N.S.A.’s cold-war-era argument, that everyone does it, seems unlikely to win the day.
和其前任一样，奥巴马认为美国监听电话、入侵电脑只是为了保护世界，不是为了获得商业上的利益。但是美国政府没人承认NSA一直在对默克尔、墨西哥总统或者巴西人从事间谍活动，更没有解释原因。有一点是显而易见的：NSA有关“冷战时期”的理由，即人人都在搞间谍活动，似乎不太可能服众。