BERLIN — The European Union will fail to meet an ambitious goal of significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 unless it takes more aggressive measures to limit the use of fossil fuels and adopts new environmental policies, according to a report scheduled for release on Tuesday.
柏林——据定于周二公布的一份报告，除非欧洲联盟采取更积极的措施来限制化石燃料的使用，并实施新的环保政策，它将无法在2050年实现明显减少温室气体排放量的雄心勃勃的目标。
Although European countries are on track to meet, and even surpass, the goal of reducing 1990-level greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020, existing policies are not robust enough to ensure that the 2050 targets are met, the report said. Those targets, scientists have said, are critical to forestalling the most catastrophic effects of climate change, which are linked to carbon emissions caused by human activity.
报告称，虽然欧洲各国正处在实现、甚至超越其2020年目标的轨道上，也就是把温室气体排放量在1990年的水平上降低20％，但现有的政策不够强大，不足以确保实现其2050年的目标。科学家说，实现这些目标对防止气候变化最灾难性的后果至关重要，气候变化与人类活动制造的碳排放有关。
“The level of ambition of environmental policies currently in place to reduce environmental pressures may not enable Europe to achieve long-term environmental goals, such as the 2050 target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95 percent,” the report said.
报告说，“目前实施的、旨在减少环境压力的环境政策的雄心程度，可能不足以让欧洲实现其长期的环境目标，比如到2050年将温室气体的排放量降低80%至95％。”
The report also noted that transportation continues to account for a quarter of all carbon emissions within the European Union, and reducing those by 60 percent by 2050 will require “significant additional measures.”
报告还指出，交通运输仍占欧盟范围内所有碳排放量的四分之一，在2050年时让这类排放降低60％将需要“显著的额外措施”。
The report, which will formally be released on Tuesday, was compiled by the European Environment Agency, based in Copenhagen, and is produced every five years to assess how the Union is progressing toward its environmental goals and to inform European policy. It will be presented to the European Commission and debated in the European Parliament later this month.
这份报告将于周二正式公布，报告由总部设在哥本哈根的欧洲环境署(European Environment Agency)编制，每五年发布一次，评估欧盟在实现其环境目标上进展如何，为欧洲的政策提供信息。报告将提交给欧盟委员会，并在本月晚些时候的欧洲议会上展开辩论。
The findings are significant because Europeans have taken a lead role in seeking to avert the worst effects of climate change, in some cases putting aside their own economic prospects and political pressures to enact policies that could also serve as models for other countries and regions. The European Union’s failure to achieve its goals could discourage efforts by more reluctant nations, like China and India, and could loom large later this year as nations gather in Paris to discuss a global climate treaty.
报告的结论很重要，因为欧洲人在寻求避免气候变化的最坏影响上已经起了带头作用，在某些情况下，欧盟不顾自身的经济前景和政治压力，制定出可能也会成为其他国家和地区榜样的政策。如果欧盟不能实现其目标，可能会让更不情愿的国家、比如中国和印度失去做出努力的信心，并可能给今年晚些时候世界各国聚集巴黎讨论全球气候条约带来阴影。
Hans Bruyninckx, the executive director of the European Environment Agency, characterized the report as an alarming call that provides the 28 European Union member states with a fresh opportunity to set a global example.
欧洲环境署执行主任汉斯·布鲁宁克(Hans Bruyninckx)称报告给人们敲响警钟，也是欧盟28个成员国为全球树立榜样的新机会。
“Although we have colored the outlook red, it doesn’t have to be red,” Mr. Bruyninckx said. He named increased energy efficiency, ecological innovation and improvements to transportation systems as potential areas in which Europeans could adjust their policies to meet their long-term goals.
“虽然我们的前景中出现了警报，但不一定是不可改变的，”布鲁宁克说。他指出，为了实现他们的长期目标，欧洲人在提高能源效率、进行生态创新、改进交通系统等方面有调整自己政策的潜力。
“Although we have all of these very different countries with very different energy profiles, in the long run, the commitment to these targets is there, the level of ambition to reach the 80 percent is high on the political agenda,” Mr. Bruyninckx said.
布鲁宁克说，“虽然我们有非常不同的国家，它们的能源结构有很大的不同，但从长远来看，有致力于这些目标的决心，实现80％的目标的雄心壮志位于政治议程的首要地位。”
Setting global emissions targets, however, has proved elusive for years, and the latest assessment of Europe’s progress illustrates that once targets are reached, significant difficulties remain in holding countries to their agreed-to goals.
然而，制定全球的减排目标多年来被证明非常之难，这次对欧洲进展的最新评估表明，一旦制定了目标，在确保各国实现其同意的目标上仍有显著的困难。
Even a country like Germany, where support for the environment borders on a religion, has faced unforeseen challenges as it aims to revamp its energy sector from reliance on traditional sources of energy, such as nuclear and fossil fuels, to renewable sources, including wind, solar and biofuels.
即使在德国这样的国家，虽然国内对环境保护的支持几近狂热，但在调整能源结构上仍面临着不可预见的挑战，德国在试图改变对传统能源、如核能和化石燃料的依赖，更多地使用可再生能源，包括风能、太阳能和生物燃料。
The race to shutter the country’s nuclear reactors by 2022, for example, has resulted in many power providers using brown coal, or lignite, the cheapest and dirtiest of all fossil fuels to keep the power flowing to customers. This, in turn, has led to an increase in carbon emissions.
例如，德国正在加快停止国内核反应堆的运行，到2022年将全部停止，结果是许多电力供应商使用最脏的化石燃料褐煤，来为用户提供源源不断的电力。这反而来导致了碳排放的增加。
According to the report, Germany, whose economy is the best in Europe, was the only country not on track to meet its emissions reductions for 2020, or cut its energy consumption. According to the German Association of Energy and Water Industries, the country saw an increase of 20 million tons of carbon emissions between 2012 and 2013, instead of a reduction.
这篇报告称，欧洲经济最好的德国，是唯一不能如期实现其2020年减排目标、或降低其能源消耗的国家。据德国能源及水力工业协会的统计，德国在2012年到2013年间的碳排放量增加了2000万吨，而不是减少了。
In order to meet its goals, Germany must reduce emissions annually by 3.5 percent over the next six years, a feat that will result in substantial increases in energy costs, and generate political pressure to block measures that could hurt the economy.
为了实现目标，德国必须在未来6年里，每年减排3.5％，实现这一壮举将导致能源成本的大幅增长，并产生阻止可能会损害经济的措施的政治压力。
Harro van Asselt, a researcher at the Stockholm Environment Institute’s Oxford Centre, said Germany saw a drop in emissions after many polluting industrial sites in the former East Germany were shuttered between the late 1990s and early 2000s. The closings occurred just as Europe began tackling climate change, which assisted the European Union in meeting its 2020 targets, he said.
斯德哥尔摩环境研究所牛津中心研究员哈罗·范阿瑟尔特(Harro van Asselt)表示，由于前东德的很多高污染工厂在20世纪90年代末和21世纪初停工，德国的排放量出现了下降。工厂关闭的时间正好是欧洲开始应对气候变化的时候，他说，这有助于欧盟实现其2020年的目标。
“The question is not why they might stumble now; the main question is why did they reach their targets before,” Mr. van Asselt said.
范阿瑟尔特说，“问题不在于为什么他们现在出了问题；主要的问题是，为什么他们以前实现了目标。”