LONDON — With a dimming of the lights and ceremonies across this country and in Belgium, monarchs, princes, presidents and citizens prepared on Monday to mark the day 100 years ago when Britain entered World War I at the start of four years of carnage once called the war to end all wars.
伦敦——随着英国和比利时举国熄灭灯光时刻的到来，君主、王子、总统和公民准备于周一纪念100年前的这个英国宣布进入了第一次世界大战的日子，那次长达四年血腥屠杀曾被称为是结束所有战争的战争。
Religious services and other commemorations are scheduled in cathedrals and public places even as conflicts continue to rage in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Gaza, Libya and Ukraine. In Liège and Mons in Belgium, ceremonies bringing together representatives of the onetime warring powers are to mark the first day of what is still known to some as the Great War, which started on Aug. 4, 1914.
大教堂里将举行宗教祈祷，公共场所中也有其他纪念活动，然而冲突仍在伊拉克、叙利亚、阿富汗、加沙、利比亚和乌克兰继续肆虐。在比利时的列日和蒙斯，各种仪式把曾经的交战国的代表们聚在一起，来纪念那次仍被一些人称为“伟大战争”(the Great War)的开战日，一战始于1914年8月4日。
Back then, as hostilities loomed, Sir Edward Grey, the British foreign secretary, famously remarked: “The lamps are going out all over Europe; we shall not see them lit again in our lifetime.”
在战争即将爆发的前夜，英国外交大臣爱德华·格雷爵士(Sir Edward Grey)留下一句名言：“整个欧洲的灯光正在熄灭；我们有生之年不会看到它们重放光明了。”
To echo those words, Prime Minister David Cameron has urged Britons to extinguish the lights in their homes at 10 p.m. on Monday to leave a lone light or candle burning by 11 p.m. — the precise moment of the declaration of war on Germany.
作为对这句话的呼应，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦呼吁英国人在周一晚10点熄灭自己家中的灯光，只留一盏灯或蜡烛，直到晚11点，那是英国对德国宣战的准确时刻。
At 10 Downing Street, a single candle will be left burning on the doorstep. At Westminster Abbey, at a late-night ceremony attended by political leaders, a lone oil lamp at the tomb of the unknown soldier is to be extinguished at 11 p.m.
唐宁街10号的门口留下了一根点燃的蜡烛。在威斯敏斯特教堂(Westminster Abbey)政治领导人出席的一个夜间仪式上，无名战士墓前的一个孤独油灯将在晚11点被熄灭。
“Sixteen million people perished in World War I,” Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg of Britain said in a statement, noting that the conflict was “a war which still shapes the world as it is today.”
“有1600万人在第一次世界大战中死亡，”英国副首相尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)在一份声明中说，他指出那场冲突是“一场仍然影响着当今世界现实的战争”。
The fighting erupted after a series of interlocked events beginning with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie, on June 28, 1914 — a killing that triggered a series of alliances that historians have described as Europe stumbling or sleepwalking into a cataclysmic conflict.
战火在一串连锁事件后爆发，先是弗朗茨·斐迪南大公和妻子索菲在1914年6月28日遭暗杀，该事件触发了被历史学家描述为让欧洲不知不觉或梦游般地进入一场灾难性冲突的一系列联盟。
With war approaching, “most were stumbling into the darkness, increasingly bound by the chains of their own and others’ making, their hope of avoiding war ever fading,” the Very Rev. John Hall, the dean of Westminster Abbey, said in a foreword to the order of service on Monday.
威斯敏斯特教堂的牧师团长、十分可敬的约翰·霍尔(Very Rev. John Hall)在周一祈祷程序的序言部分说，随着战争的临近，“大多数人不知不觉地走向黑暗，越来越多地被自己和他人制造的锁链束缚着，他们避免战争的希望在永远消失。”
Neutral at the beginning, the United States formally joined the war in 1917. By the time of the armistice of Nov. 11, 1918, empires had crumbled and the world map was redrawn.
美国在战争的前期中立，后于1917年正式参战。到1918年11月11日停战时，几个帝国崩溃了，世界地图被重新绘制。
The writer H. G. Wells is often credited with coining the description of the conflict as “the war that will end war,” the title of an essay that became a jingoistic catchphrase, “the war to end all wars.” As the conflict drew to a close, a more cynical view overtook that sentiment when David Lloyd George, the British prime minister at the time, is said to have remarked: “This war, like the next war, is a war to end war.”
作家H·G·威尔斯(H.G. Wells)通常被认为是第一个用“这场结束战争的战争”来描述那次冲突的人，那是他一篇文章的标题，该描述后来成为“结束所有战争的战争”这条极端爱国主义的标语。随着冲突接近尾声，一种更悲观的观点取代了爱国情绪，当时的英国首相大卫·劳合·乔治(David Lloyd George)据说曾表示：“这场战争，就像下一场战争，都是结束战争的战争。”
The approach of the conflict in 1914 was commemorated on Sunday when President François Hollande of France and President Joachim Gauck of Germany embraced at a war memorial in the eastern French province of Alsace, near the frequently contested frontier between their nations. The occasion marked Germany’s declaration of war on France on Aug. 3, 1914 as German troops invaded neutral Belgium — the event that drew Britain into the war a day later.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)和德国总统约阿希姆·高克(Joachim Gauck)在周日纪念了1914年冲突的降临，他们在法国东部省份阿尔萨斯的一个战争纪念碑前相互拥抱，纪念碑位于这两个国家在一战期间频繁争夺的前沿附近。这一活动标志了德国1914年8月3日向法国宣战的日子，随着德国军队入侵中立的比利时，英国在一天后也参加了战争。
Mr. Hollande and Mr. Gauck on Monday are to join dignitaries from Belgium, Britain and elsewhere at events in Belgium.
奥朗德和高克周一将与来自比利时、英国和其他国家的国家元首一起，参加在比利时举行的纪念活动。
No formal ceremonies were planned in Berlin, with German commemorations focused on Mr. Gauck’s attendance at ceremonies in lands once conquered by German soldiers. In Russia, President Vladimir V. Putin inaugurated a memorial in Moscow last week and a museum is to open in St. Petersburg.
德国柏林没有举行正式仪式的计划，德国的纪念主要是以高克出席其他国家仪式的形式，那些国家的土地曾一度被德国士兵征服。在俄罗斯，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统上周在莫斯科揭幕了一个纪念碑，一个博物馆也将在圣彼得堡开放。
The scale of commemoration in Russia was unusual. Moscow usually focuses most of its commemorative efforts on World War II. The events in 1914 molded some of the crises of 2014 in the Middle East and Europe which trace their roots to conflicts decades ago.
俄罗斯的纪念活动规模不同寻常。莫斯科的主要纪念通常针对第二次世界大战。1914年的事件对2014年的中东和欧洲某些危机有重大影响，这些危机的根源可追溯到几十年前的冲突。