PARIS — What does Google know about its users and how does it know it? European privacy regulators on Tuesday warned the company to clarify those issues — or risk fines or other penalties by early next year.
巴黎——谷歌知道多少用户的信息，又是如何知道的呢？欧洲的隐私监管部门周二要求谷歌公司对这些问题进行澄清，否则明年上半年可能就会面临罚款或其它处罚。
In a letter to Larry Page, the chief executive of Google, 27 European data-protection agencies asked the company to modify its global privacy policy that governs dozens of Google online services — including the flagship search engine, Android mobile phone apps and YouTube videos — so that users have a clearer understanding of what personal data is being collected and can better control how that information is shared with advertisers.
在一封写给谷歌首席执行官拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)的信函中，27家欧洲数据保护机构要求谷歌修改其全球隐私政策。包括谷歌的旗舰服务项目搜索引擎，以及Android手机应用程序和YouTube视频网站在内的几十项谷歌在线业务，都采用了该项隐私政策。这些数据保护机构要求，在经过修改后，用户能更清楚地知道，谷歌收集了哪些个人信息，并且可以更好地控制谷歌与广告商共享这些信息的方式。
Along with other Internet companies like Facebook and Microsoft, Google collects personal data, like the sex and age of users and their Web browsing histories, in order to tailor their services to individual users and also to sell ads.
和Facebook与微软(Microsoft)等其他互联网公司一样，谷歌会收集用户的性别、年龄以及网页浏览历史等个人信息，目的是用来为个体用户定制服务，也用来出售广告。
When Google introduced the privacy policy last winter, it described it as a way to streamline its use of personal data across a range of services that were each previously covered by separate privacy guidelines. And in keeping with European privacy law, Google said it was collecting the data only if users “opted in.” But opting in essentially became a requirement of using each of the services, by clicking the “I Agree” button before using the service for the first time, after the new policy went into effect.
今年3月，谷歌正式启用现行的隐私政策。谷歌介绍说，由于之前的各项服务采用的是不同的隐私原则，推出新隐私政策是为了提高各项不同服务中的个人数据的使用效率。为了不违反欧洲的隐私法，谷歌称其只在用户“明确同意”的情况下进行数据收集。但是新政策生效以来，“明确同意”实际上成了用户使用每项服务时的强制规定，用户首次使用该服务之前必须点击“我同意”选项。
Analysts say the impact on Google’s business of accepting the regulators’ recommendations depends on whether customers readily accept having to opt into a more detailed privacy policy. If large numbers of users opt out, Google’s advertising revenue would suffer.
分析人士称，如果谷歌接受监管机构提出的建议，其业务会受到多大影响，要看用户是否乐于选择同意一项更细致的隐私政策。如果大量用户不接受的话，谷歌的广告收入将受到冲击。
European privacy regulators had expressed concern last winter about the new procedures and had asked Google to delay implementing them. After the company declined, the European Commission asked France’s privacy agency to take the lead on a legal analysis, which resulted in the warning letter Tuesday to Mr. Page.
今年3月，欧洲的隐私监管机构已经对其新政策表达了关切，并且要求谷歌推迟执行。在谷歌回绝之后，欧盟委员会(European Commission)责成法国隐私保护机构牵头进行法律分析。周二寄给佩奇的警告信就是这项分析的成果。
The privacy regulators said Google provided users with incomplete disclosure about its processing and storage of the data, as well as insufficient control over how information from different Google services is blended to build detailed personal profiles. Google also makes it too cumbersome for users to block the collection of these data, the regulators said.
隐私监管机构表示，谷歌没有向用户完整地披露其处理及储存数据的情况，也没有在利用从不同谷歌服务搜集的信息整合成用户资料时，向用户提供充分的控制权。监管机构还表示，谷歌还把用户阻止信息收集行为的操作弄得过于繁琐。
“The new privacy policy allows an unprecedented combination of data across different Google services,” Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin, chairwoman of the French data-protection authority, said at a news conference in Paris. “We are not opposed to this, in principle, but the data could be employed in ways that the user is not aware of.”
“新的隐私政策允许用户数据在不同的谷歌产品之间，以前所未有的规模进行整合。”法国数据保护部门主席伊莎贝尔·法尔克-皮埃罗丹(Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin)在巴黎举行的新闻发布会上说，“原则上讲，我们并非反对这些隐私政策，但是这些数据可能会以用户不了解的方式使用。”
Ms. Falque-Pierrotin, whose agency, called CNIL, conducted an investigation of the policy change on behalf of the other European Union data-protection authorities, said she would give Google “three to four months” to make changes. If the company refuses, she and other officials said, the data-protection authorities might take legal action or impose fines.
法尔克-皮埃罗丹的机构名为CNIL，该机构代表其他欧盟数据保护机构，对政策调整展开了调查。法尔克-皮埃罗丹表示，她将给谷歌公司“三到四个月”的时间进行改正。如果谷歌拒绝配合，她和其他官员表示，数据保护机构可能会采取法律行动，或进行罚款。
Google said it was reviewing the letter and an accompanying report from the data-protection authorities, but added that it was confident that the new policy respected European Union law.
谷歌表示，该公司正在审阅这封信，以及数据保护机构随附的报告，但也补充说，相信该公司的新政策符合欧盟的法规。
“Our new privacy policy demonstrates our longstanding commitment to protecting our users’ information and creating great products,” Peter Fleischer, the Google global privacy counsel, said in a statement.
谷歌全球隐私律师彼得·弗莱舍尔(Peter Fleischer)在一份声明中说，“我们新的隐私政策显示了谷歌长期以来对保护用户信息、创造出伟大产品的决心。”
The letter to Mr. Page is only the latest addition to a growing list of regulatory headaches for Google. Antitrust officials at the European Commission are investigating whether Google has used its search engine to favor its own services and through preferential rankings to put competitors at a disadvantage. A similar inquiry is under way at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.
致佩奇的信只是谷歌越来越多的监管难题中最新的一个。欧盟委员会反垄断官员正在调查，谷歌是否曾利用其搜索引擎，对自身的服务给予优先排序，从而使竞争对手处于不利地位。美国联邦贸易委员会(Federal Trade Commission)也在展开类似的调查。
On privacy, Google has been under growing scrutiny since it acknowledged in 2010 that it had collected private data on individuals when it took photographs for its Street View mapping feature. Regulators in several countries, including the United States and France, have fined Google in connection with this practice; criminal and civil investigations are still open in Germany.
自从2010年，谷歌公司承认在为其地图的“街景”(Street View)功能拍摄照片时会收集个人的隐私数据之后，该公司就受到了越来越苛刻的审视。若干个国家的监管机关，包括美国和法国，已经因谷歌涉及这种行为对其罚款。在德国，刑事和民事调查仍在进行当中。
“There’s a collective concern being expressed by different regulatory agencies in many parts of the world about the use of information online,” said Joel Reidenberg, director of the Center on Law and Information Policy at Fordham University in New York. “As the trend goes this way, we can expect to see more of these kinds of concerns expressed and a decreasing hesitancy about taking action.”
“世界各地有很多不同的监管机构，对于在线信息的使用都表达了担忧。”纽约福特汉姆大学(Fordham University)法律和信息政策中心(Center on Law andInformation Policy)主任乔尔·雷登伯格(Joel Reidenberg)说，“随着趋势的发展，我们可以预期这种担忧会越来越多地被表达出来，采取行动时的迟疑也会越来越少。”
In the letter, the European officials said Google’s new policy allowed the company to “combine almost any data from any service for any purpose.”
在这封信中，欧盟官员说谷歌的新政策允许该公司“整合所有数据，不管它来自哪个服务，以达成任意的一个目的”。
The regulators asked Google to give consumers more visibility over how their data is collected, used and combined, saying one possibility might be to create “interactive online presentations.” The regulators also chided Google for failing to specify how long it kept certain kinds of data, and urged the company to make it easier for users to “opt out” if they did not want their information gathered.
监管机关要求，谷歌让用户更清晰的了解，他们的数据是如何被采集、使用及整合的，并表示一种可能的做法是提供一个“互动在线演示”。监管机构还批评谷歌并未说明某些特定类型的数据会存放多长时间，并敦促该公司，如果用户不愿使其信息被谷歌收集，则应为这些“选择退出”的用户提供更多便利。