FRANKFURT, Germany — The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low on Thursday and, in an unprecedented attempt to stimulate the euro zone economy, said it would begin charging interest on deposits held by the bank.
德国法兰克福——周四，欧洲中央银行(European Central Bank)把基准利率降到了历史最低水平，并表示将开始对商业银行持有的央行存款收取利息，此举是央行为刺激欧元区经济所做的一次史无前例的尝试。
The so-called negative deposit rate has never been tried on such a large scale and is a bid to push down the value of the euro and encourage banks to invest excess cash rather than hoard it in central bank vaults.
如此大规模推行所谓的负存款利率是前所未有的，目的是压低欧元价值，鼓励银行投资过剩现金，而非把这些钱囤在中央银行的金库里。
The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.15 percent from 0.25 percent, and the deposit rate to minus 0.10 percent from zero. The rate cuts will take effect next week, on June 11.
欧洲央行把基准利率从0.25%减到了0.15%，存款利率从零降到了-0.1%。此次利率削减将从下周的6月11日开始生效。
The central bank will also begin offering four-year loans to banks at the benchmark interest rates, under conditions meant to ensure that lenders use the money to issue loans to businesses. For example, the central bank loans will be designed to discourage banks from using the money to buy government bonds.
欧洲央行还将按基准利率开始向商业银行提供四年期的贷款，前提条件是贷款银行要保证把钱用于向企业放贷。例如，央行的贷款会设法阻止商业银行利用贷款购买政府债券。
Mario Draghi, the central bank president, said at a news conference that the central bank would begin buying packages of loans to the euro zone private sector, known as asset-backed securities. The measure is designed to push lending to small business, but the effect could be limited because the number of securities that qualify is relatively small.
欧洲央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)在一次新闻发布会上说，该行将开始购买打包贷款提供给欧元区的私营企业，这种打包贷款被称为资产担保证券。此举是为了推动银行给小企业贷款，不过，因为合格证券的数量相对较小，它的效果可能有限。
On news of the new measures, the euro currency declined somewhat against the dollar — which was one of the aims of the central bank’s actions. The weaker currency could help make euro zone exports cheaper, and therefore more competitive, on global markets. Mr. Draghi said the moves adopted Thursday had the backing of the entire governing council of the central bank, who voted earlier in the day — which he called “an extraordinary degree of unanimity.”
新举措公布后，欧元兑美元比价应声出现轻微下跌——这正是央行此番行动的目的之一。弱势货币有助于降低欧元区的出口商品价格，由此扩大其在全球市场的竞争力。德拉吉说，周四采取的举措获得了央行管理委员会的全力支持，该委员会在当日早些时候作出了表决——他称委员会取得了“不同寻常的一致。”
The interest rate cuts, including the move to a negative rate on deposits, had become all but certain after data earlier in the week showed that inflation in the euro zone fell to an annual rate of 0.5 percent in May, a level considered perilously low.
本周早些时候的数据显示，欧元区的通胀率在5月跌到了年通胀率0.5%的水平，被认为已低至险境，因此随后推出削减利率措施，包括实施负存款利率，也就成了意料中的事情。
The fear is that the minuscule rises in wages and prices could lapse into outright declines — an economically debilitating condition known as deflation that is characterized by a downward spiral of prices, corporate profits and hiring. Deflation has already plagued the economies of several of the weaker euro zone countries, including Greece.
现在的担忧是，工资和价格微乎其微的上涨可能会让经济陷入彻底的衰退——一种被称为通货紧缩的持续衰退的经济局面，其特点是价格、企业利润和就业人数出现螺旋形下滑。通缩已让几个经济更为虚弱的欧元区国家备受折磨，希腊是其中之一。
“Ultimately the macroeconomic consequences of a small negative rate are likely to be minimal,” Luke Bartholomew, a fund manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, said in a note after the central bank’s announcement, “But it should put downward pressure on the euro and it is an important signal of the ECB’s deflation fighting intent.”
“最终，较低的负利率对宏观经济的影响可能很小，”欧洲央行宣布相关事宜后，安本资产管理(Aberdeen Asset Management)的基金经理卢克·巴塞洛缪(Luke Bartholomew)在一份报告中说，“但它应该能增加欧元的下行压力，这是一个重要信号，体现了欧洲央行抗击通货紧缩的意图。”
As an indication that pumping up the inflation rate could be a slow process, Mr. Draghi said Thursday the central bank is forecasting a rate of 0.7 percent for this year, 1.1 percent next year and 1.4 percent in 2016 — still below the bank’s target of 2 percent.
德拉吉周四表示，央行预计今年的通货膨胀率为0.7%，明年为1.1%，2016年为1.4%——依然低于该行定下的2%的目标。这一迹象表明，提高通货膨胀率可能会是一个缓慢的过程。
Imposing a negative deposit rate is meant to give a positive jolt to the euro zone economy. In the annals of central banking, though, negative deposit rates have rarely been tried. Denmark had one until April, but the impact on an economy as large as the euro zone’s is largely unknown.
实行负存款利率是为了给欧元区经济带来积极的刺激。但在中央银行的历史上，负存款利率甚少被尝试。丹麦曾实行负存款利率，直到4月结束，但它对像欧元区这么大规模的经济体的影响，很大程度上还是未知的。
“Negative deposit rates have not been used at this scale before and could have unpredictable consequences,” Christian Schulz, a senior economist at Berenberg Bank, said in a note ahead of the central bank meeting.
“以前从未这么大规模地实行负存款利率 ，它可能会造成不可预知的后果，”欧洲央行举行这次会议前，贝仑贝格银行(Berenberg Bank)高级经济学家克里斯蒂安·舒尔茨(Christian Schulz)在一份报告中说。
Many economists have already criticized the moves, which were widely expected, as inadequate to combat the deflation threat that Mr. has acknowledged. As a result, the reaction and commentary is now likely to focus even more on whether the bank will sooner or later be forced to buy government bonds or private assets in amounts large enough to restart lending in areas of the euro zone that are starved of credit.
许多经济学家已经进行了批评，认为人们已经普遍预料到的这一举措，不足以抑制德拉吉承认的通货紧缩风险。因此，现在的反应和评论可能更集中在欧洲央行是否迟早会被迫购买政府债券或私人资产，而且数量要足够大，足以重新开启欧元区那些信贷严重不足的地区的借贷。
The United States, Britain and Japan have all used such asset buying — so-called quantitative easing — to jump-start their economies when there was no room left to cut interest rates.
美国、英国和日本都曾在利率没有削减空间时，通过这种资产购买——所谓的量化宽松——的方式快速重振经济。
But the European Central Bank has been reluctant to do so, in part because of the politically treacherous task of selecting which assets to buy from among the euro zone’s 18 quarrelsome members.
但欧洲央行一直不愿意这么做，这在一定程度上是因为，在欧元区18个争吵不休的成员国中，选择购买哪个国家的资产这项任务，在政治上很危险。
“There remains no chance of the E.C.B. going for large purchases of sovereign bonds even later in the year, unless a major adverse shock occurs,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said in a blog post earlier this week.
“即使在今年晚些时候，欧洲央行依然不可能大规模购买主权债券，除非出现大规模的负面冲击，”华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)高级研究员雅各布·芬克·柯克加德(Jacob Funk Kirkegaard)在本周早些时候的一篇博客文章中说。
But in response to a question about quantitative easing at Thursday’s news conference, Mr. Draghi seemed to leave open that possibility.
但在周四的新闻发布会上，在回答一个有关量化宽松的问题时，德拉吉似乎没有否定这种可能性。
“We think this is a significant package,'’ he said of Thursday’s moves. “Are we finished? The answer is no. If need be, within our mandate, we aren’t finished yet.” 
“我们觉得这个一揽子方案意义重大，”他这样评价周四公布的举措，“我们的行动到此为止了吗？答案是没有。如果有需要，且在我们的权责内，我们还没结束。”