MINSK, Belarus — A renewed cease-fire and an overall agreement to end the war in Ukraine was announced here on Thursday by the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France after marathon overnight bargaining that nearly collapsed at the very end.
白俄罗斯明斯克——在马拉松式的通宵谈判于最后时刻几乎崩溃之后，一项新的停火协议及一项乌克兰停战的总体协定周四在这里由俄罗斯、乌克兰、德国和法国的领导人共同宣布。
The cease-fire is scheduled to begin at midnight on Saturday, but the 13-point compact appeared fragile, with crucial issues like the truce line left unresolved. Over all, there seemed to be no guarantee that the problems that marred the cease-fire agreement reached here in September had been ironed out.
停火预定于周六午夜开始，但这份有着13项条款的合约看起来却十分脆弱，休战线一类的关键问题还悬而未决。总体来说，其看似难保致使9月在这里达成的停火协议受挫的问题已被摆平。
The very fact that it took more than 16 hours of intensive negotiations to reach an agreement, and that the leaders announced the accord in three separate news conferences, seemed to underscore a certain lack of unity.
协议经过16小时的激烈谈判才得以达成、各国领导人在三个分别举办的新闻发布会上宣布这项协议的事实，看起来突出了他们一定程度上的不齐心。
But after so many hours spent in the grandiose Independence Palace in the Belarussian capital, all four leaders seemed determined to accent the idea that the agreement should be given the chance to quiet the yearlong conflict in eastern Ukraine.
但在于白俄罗斯首都雄伟的独立宫(Independence Palace)谈判了如此长时间之后，所有四名领导人看起来都下定了决心，强调了应该给予该项协议一次机会，让其平息乌克兰东部长达一年的冲突的想法。
“It consisted of a long night and a long morning, but we arrived at an accord on the cease-fire and the global end to the conflict,” François Hollande, the French president, said at a news conference in a joint appearance with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel.
“它由一个漫长的夜晚和一个漫长的早晨构成，但我们就停火和这场冲突全球性的终结达成了一致，”法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在一场与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)共同出席的新闻发布会上说道。
Ms. Merkel, who unexpectedly initiated a mediation effort with her French counterpart last week, said, “What we have on the table today gives us great hope,” although she simultaneously stressed that there was much work ahead.
上周出人意料地与法国总统共同发起了调解工作的默克尔说，“我们今天台面上所拥有的东西给我们带来了巨大的希望，”尽管她同时强调了之后还有很多工作。
"We have no illusions,” she said, “A great, great deal of work still needs to be done. But there is a real chance to turn things around toward the better."
“我们没有抱幻想，”她说，“有非常、非常多的工作仍亟待完成。但将局面扭转，让其往好的方向发展，是很有希望的。”
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine, in their separate briefings, highlighted those parts of the agreement that matched their demands, while noting crucial outstanding questions.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)和乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)在他们分别举行的记者会上强调了协议中符合他们要求的部分，同时指出了关键的突出问题。
“Despite all the difficulties of the negotiating process, we managed to agree on the main things,” Mr. Putin said. Those issues included the withdrawal of heavy weaponry, a promise for constitutional reform, and “special status” for the breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, he said.
“尽管谈判过程困难重重，我们成功地在主要问题上达成了一致，”普京说。他说，这些问题包括重型武器撤离、宪法改革承诺，及顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克自行独立区域的“特殊待遇”。
Mr. Poroshenko, for his part, emphasized the humanitarian issues, like the release of all prisoners, including Lt. Nadiya V. Savchenko, a female helicopter navigator who was elected to the Ukrainian Parliament while facing trial in Moscow. All foreign troops, military equipment and mercenaries should be withdrawn from Ukrainian territory, he said.
波罗申科则强调了人道主义问题，比如释放囚犯，包括释放娜迪亚·V·萨夫琴科(Lt. Nadiya V. Savchenko)。她是一位直升机导航员，当选了乌克兰国会议员，目前在莫斯科面临审判。所有军队、军事装备和雇佣兵都应从乌克兰领土上撤离，他说。
But the plan also included some tripwires, not least the questions about the truce line and the fate of the village of Debaltseve, a key railroad hub that has been the site of fierce fighting in recent weeks.
但新方案潜伏着危险，特别是关于停火线的问题，还有德巴泽维村命运的问题。这个地方是一个重要的铁路枢纽，近几周来成为激烈的战场。
Mr. Putin said, for example, that the truce line would be determined by where the fighting stops next Saturday, while the separatist forces would observe the line set out in the September agreement.
普京说，停火线的施划应该根据周六战事在哪里停止，分裂武装则应遵守9月协议中规定的界线。
The deal calls for heavy artillery to be withdrawn at least 25 kilometers from each side, and the biggest missiles even further. The withdrawal is scheduled to start two days after the cease-fire and to be completed within two weeks.
新协议要求双方重武器至少后撤到距离对方25公里处。最大型的导弹还应后撤更远。这些武器的撤离应于停火开始两天后进行，两周内完成。
Mr. Putin said that Mr. Poroshenko refused to acknowledge that the separatist forces had surrounded up to 8,000 Ukrainian soldiers in Debaltseve, but the Russian leader said he hoped that consultations between military commanders would settle that matter.
普京说，波罗申科拒绝承认分裂武装在德巴泽维村包围了至多8000名乌克兰士兵。但他说，希望军方将领可以通过协商解决问题。
The Russian leader warned that the situation there carried the potential for renewed fighting, but he called on both sides to stop the bloodshed.
俄总统警告，那里的局势有可能使战火重燃，但呼吁双方停止流血冲突。
Even as all sides endorsed the pending cease-fire, the fighting that has left more than 5,400 people dead since last spring continued.
就在各方签署停火协议的同时，自春季以来已致5400多人丧生的战斗仍在继续。
Pro-Russian rebel forces mounted a counterattack on areas east of the coastal city of Mariupol, attempting to retake some of the ground seized in recent days by the volunteer, right-wing Azov Battalion.
亲俄叛军在海滨城市马里乌波尔以东地区发动了反攻，意图夺回右翼志愿军“阿佐夫”军营近期占领的土地。
Residents of Mariupol, an industrial port on the Sea of Azov that was widely expected to be the next target of rebel attacks if the truce agreed to in Minsk does not hold, said they could hear heavy shelling throughout the morning.
马里乌波尔是阿佐夫海沿岸的工业港口，普遍认为会是叛军的下一个目标——如果在明斯克达成的停火破产。当地居民说，整个上午都能听到重炮轰击的声音。
City and military officials said the fighting had not hit civilian areas in Mariupol, but had been confined to small villages to the east.
当地政府和军方官员说，战争没有打到平民区，只是在东部几个小村庄范围内展开。
Through the new accord, Mr. Poroshenko sought to reassert Ukrainian control over the hundreds of kilometers of border with Russia. Kiev said the border remained porous, despite attempts at international monitoring, allowing Moscow easily to supply the two breakaway regions with men, money and material.
通过新协议，波罗申科希望确保乌克兰对俄乌之间数百公里的边境线的控制。基辅方面说，边境线仍然疏于防备，尽管国际社会持续关注，因此莫斯科可以轻易地向两个叛乱地区输送人员、金钱和物资的援助。
Russia and the separatists deny that Moscow is contributing any direct military aid.
俄罗斯和分裂分子都不承认莫斯科在提供直接军事援助。