LONDON — Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian prime minister, famously dismissed talk of crisis in Italy, noting that restaurants were full and seats on planes hard to find. He also suggested that one reason to invest in Italy “is that we have beautiful secretaries.” In short, he was an unserious man for serious times. Yet he is the longest-serving postwar Italian leader and headed the government for a couple of years after the euro came under grave threat.
伦敦——意大利前总理西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)曾经驳斥意大利陷入危机的言论，因此出了名。他指出餐厅里宾客满座，飞机票也很难订。他还曾提出，投资意大利的一个好处在于“我们这里有美丽的女秘书”。简言之，他是一个在大事临头的时代不那么正儿八经的男人。但他也是二战后意大利任职时间最长的总理，还曾在欧元陷入严重危机后的两年里主政。
This is a puzzle, and no less so now that Berlusconi has been convicted of tax fraud, banned from public office for two years, and handed a one-year sentence he wants to serve by doing community service, perhaps returning to his former life as a crooner.
这是一个谜，现在依然如此。贝卢斯科尼已经被判税务欺诈，被禁止担任公职两年，还被判处有期徒刑一年，而他想通过做社区服务的形式服刑，有可能重操旧业成为一名歌手。
Italians are not frivolous people; there are few more serious or industrious places than Turin and Milan. Was Berlusconi — a billionaire at a time when the super-rich stamp their gilded existences on the world’s agenda — emblematic of the zeitgeist well beyond Italy? He was a performer for a time when European politicians in reality wield little power, an entertainer for a post-ideological age, an outsized figure for the bored and drugged-on-reality-shows masses, a sharp dresser for a world where image is everything.
意大利人并非不务正业的民族。几乎没有哪个地方的人比都灵人或米兰人更正经、更勤快。在高高在上的超级富豪们试图影响世界议事日程的时代，贝卢斯科尼这位亿万富翁代表着范围远超意大利的“时代精神”吗？当现实世界里的欧洲政客显得软弱无力的时候，他成了一个表演者。在后意识形态时代，他是一个带来欢笑的插科打诨者，是沉迷于真人秀的郁闷大众眼中的超凡人物，还是形象重于一切的世界里一个讲究着装品味的人。
There is something to all that. This has been a strange European crisis. You catch glimpses of desperation across the Continent but there is enough bread and a sufficient variety of circuses, it seems, to prevent an uprising. People want to be amused; technology caters to that. There is anger at the rich but also a strong undercurrent of fascination. The centers of European capitals drip with money, real-estate brokers and brands. There is a market, among the global super-rich, for the rule of law. Old Europe has that.
这一切都有点道理。欧洲陷入了一场诡异的危机。你在欧洲大陆各地都能捕捉到绝望的画面，但并没有人挨饿，还似乎有足够的“精彩好戏”阻止民众造反。人们渴望得到消遣；技术能够满足这一点。富人令人怒火中烧，但在潜意识层面又具有某种强烈的吸引力。欧洲各国首都的市中心充斥着金钱、房地产经纪人和各种名牌。全球超级富豪愿意在有法治的地方买下落脚点。这正是“老欧洲”可以提供的。
Nicolas Sarkozy, the former French president, was no Berlusconi, but he did have the same attraction to money (if not the same wealth), the same thirst for the limelight, the same short fuse, the same adrenalin-stoked persona. The French tired of him. They went to the other extreme, voted for a “Monsieur Normal” in François Hollande. Now they cannot forgive themselves. Hollande, it seems, is too normal to provide any distraction from the crisis.
法国前总统尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)不是贝卢斯科尼，但他同样爱财（尽管并非同样富有），同样爱出风头，同样性子火爆，同样具有肾上腺素支撑的人格面具。法国人对他感到厌倦以后，便走向另外一个极端，选举“正常人”(Monsieur Normal)弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)出任总统。但现在他们却无法原谅自己，因为奥朗德似乎太正常了一点，难以让身陷危机的他们分散一下注意力。
Of course, Berlusconi was very much a product of Italy, even if also something more. Italian national politics was more important when I covered the country in the 1980’s. The U.S. Embassy up on the Via Veneto was crammed with diplomats (and agents) fretting about the soft underbelly of the NATO alliance and the possibility of suave Italian Communists entering government. Still, politics was an elaborate game, a blocked system of patronage and cronyism, its permissible limits set by the American-dictated veto of the Communist Party, in a nation where allegiances are local.
当然了，贝鲁斯科尼主要是意大利社会的产物，尽管他身上也带有其他一些因素的影响。我在上世纪80年代曾在这个国家做过记者，那时意大利国家政治要比现在重要。位于威尼托街(Via Veneto)的美国大使馆里有很多外交官（还有特工），他们对北约(NATO)同盟的软腹部感到发愁，还担心文质彬彬的的意大利共产党人进入政府。可话说回来，那时的政治也是一个精心策划的游戏，一个任人唯亲的封闭体系，其可允许的极限由美国人说了算，即把共产党拒之门外。在意大利，忠诚是一个本地的概念。
It was difficult to take Rome altogether seriously. A city that has been the chief protagonist of history, but is no longer, bears a heavy burden. It is bound to the daily contemplation of gilded palaces given over to diminished business and beautiful ruins swarmed over by the Japanese. No wonder Rome’s thing was luxury not exertion. It often struck me as a waif in an extravagant gown.
不能把罗马太当真。曾扮演历史主角、但早已不再如此的这座城市，背负着沉重的负担。它沉湎于日复一日的缅怀，缅怀那金碧辉煌但影响力已经式微的宫殿和挤满日本人的美丽废墟。难怪罗马崇尚的是奢侈，而非劳作。我常常觉得，它是一个穿着华服的流浪儿。
Which brings me to Paolo Sorrentino’s masterpiece, “The Great Beauty” (“La Grande Bellezza”), a movie about nothing (its blocked novelist hero is fascinated that Flaubert wanted to write a novel about nothing) and just about everything, in particular the debauched, conga-dancing, self-deluding desperation of a Roman bourgeoisie given carte blanche to go out in style (aren’t all the Italian cruise ships sinking?) by the Berlusconi era. It is a beautiful film. Nobody does beauty like the Italians. It is also a troubling portrait of Europe’s crisis, full of hypocrisies, lies, bitterness, cruelty and empty sex. You swoon from the loveliness Sorrentino conjures only to wake up haunted.
这令我想起了保罗·索伦蒂诺(Paolo Sorrentino)的杰作《绝美之城》(The Great Beauty)。它是一部来自贝卢斯科尼时代的以虚无为主题的电影（男主角是一位陷入写作瓶颈的作家，福楼拜想要写出一本虚无之作的雄心令他着迷），详细描绘了关乎罗马资产阶级的所有一切，他们的放荡形骸，他们所跳的康加舞，他们那自欺欺人的绝望。他们得到了以华丽方式结束一切的权利（意大利的邮轮不是都沉了吗？）。这是一部美丽的电影。没有人能像意大利人那样在唯美上达到极致。它同时也是令人不安的欧洲危机的写照，充满了伪善、谎言、怨恨、残忍和空虚的性行为。索伦蒂诺制造的美感让人沉醉，但当你醒来的时候，却要面对现实的困扰。
Jep Gambardella, the novelist-hero with his ever-impeccable pocket square, asks a woman he is about to seduce what she does. “I am rich.” Great job, he comments. In another scene, he is accused of being a misogynist. No, he insists, not at all, “I’m a misanthropist.” On which he is duly congratulated: “When hate is involved, you must aim high!”
片中的小说家男主角名叫杰普·加姆班德拉(Jep Gambardella)，西装口袋里永远插着一块叠得整整齐齐的装饰方巾。他问想要勾引的一个女人，她是做哪一行的。“我是有钱人。”真是好职业，他评论道。在另一个场景中，他被指控为厌恶女人的男人。他强调，不，你说的一点都不对，“我其实是一个厌世者。”于是马上有人恭喜他：“谈到憎恨，你必须把目标定得高一点！”
A young girl hurls paint at a blank canvas that she then claws (and is paid millions); a Japanese tourist drops dead; the beautiful people are amused by a knife-thrower; lives lie in tatters; a giraffe makes an appearance, as do storks and a dwarf with influence and a would-be saint aged 104 (“Really? She looks older.”). Gambardella’s best friend, frustrated in love, frustrated in his writing, decides to leave. He gives his verdict: “Rome has disappointed me.”
一个年轻的女孩把颜料投向空白的画布，然后用手推抹（她因此获得了数百万的报酬）；一位日本游客暴毙；时髦的上层人士被飞刀逗乐；有人的人生跌至谷底；一只长颈鹿出场了，还有一些鹳鸟，一个有权势的侏儒，以及一个104岁的准圣徒。（“真的吗？她看上去年纪还要更大些。”）加姆班德拉最好的朋友情场失意，写作又不顺，于是决定离开。他的结论是：“罗马让我很失望。”
The spectacle is gorgeous. But the whiff of barbarism is unmistakable, as is the knowledge this European “culture” comes from the top.
场面很华美。但明显散发出一股野蛮的气息，同样明显的是，这种欧洲“文化”来自上层。