LE CHESNAY, France — At a rally last week near the Palace of Versailles, France’s largest far-right party, the National Front, deployed all the familiar theatrics and populist themes of nationalist movements across Europe.
法国勒谢奈——上周，在凡尔赛宫附近举行的一场集会中，法国最大的极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)安排了各种看着眼熟的戏码和民粹主义主题内容。这些内容在欧洲各处的民族主义运动中颇为常见。
A standing-room-only crowd waved the national flag, joined in a boisterous singing of the national anthem and applauded as speakers denounced freeloading foreigners and, with particular venom, the European Union.
密密匝匝的人群挥舞着国旗，热热闹闹地唱了一阵国歌，当发言者谴责外国人不劳而获，而且特别恶毒地谴责欧盟时，人群中发出了掌声。
But the event, part of an energetic push for votes by France’s surging far right ahead of elections this week for the European Parliament, also promoted an agenda distant from the customary concerns of conservative voters: why Europe needs to break its “submission” to the United States and look to Russia as a force for peace and a bulwark against moral decay.
但是，这个集会虽然是正在抬头的法国极右势力在本周欧洲议会(European Parliament)选举前举办的一个拉票活动，却也宣传了一个与保守派选民通常顾虑的事情相距甚远的议程：为什么欧洲需要打破它对美国的“顺从”，把俄罗斯视为一支和平力量、一个对抗道德沦丧的堡垒。
While the European Union has joined Washington in denouncing Russia’s annexation of Crimea and the chaos stirred by pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, Europe’s right-wing populists have been gripped by a contrarian fever of enthusiasm for Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin.
就在欧盟与华盛顿共同谴责俄罗斯吞并克里米亚以及亲俄分裂分子在乌克兰东部制造的混乱时，欧洲右翼民粹主义者却被一种逆势高涨的、对俄罗斯及其总统普京的浓厚兴趣和喜爱所吸引。
“Russian influence in the affairs of the far right is a phenomenon seen all over Europe,” said a study by Political Capital Institute, a Hungarian research group. It predicted that far-right parties, “spearheaded by the French National Front,” could form a pro-Russian bloc in the European Parliament or, at the very least, amplify previously marginal pro-Russian voices.
“俄罗斯对极右势力的影响，在欧洲各地是一种普遍现象，”匈牙利研究机构政治资本研究院(Political Capital Institute)的一项研究显示。该研究还预测，“由法国国民阵线牵头”的极右翼政党，可以在欧洲议会形成一个亲俄阵营，或者最起码是放大之前非常微弱的亲俄声音。
Pro-Russian sentiment remains largely confined to the fringes of European politics, though Mr. Putin also has more mainstream admirers and allies on both the right and the left, including Silvio Berlusconi, the former Italian prime minister, and Gerhard Schröder, the former German chancellor. Mr. Putin’s authoritarian leanings and pugnacious nationalism have generated widespread and diverse opposition to him across Europe; at a gay pride event in Brussels on Saturday, marchers wore masks featuring the Russian president’s face, colored pink and daubed with blue eye shadow and red lipstick.
亲俄情绪仍然主要局限在欧洲政坛的边缘地带，虽然不论在左翼还是右翼，普京都拥有更为主流的崇拜者和同盟者，其中包括意大利前总理西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)和德国前总理格哈特·施罗德(Gerhard Schröder)。普京的独裁倾向和好斗的民族主义作风，令他在欧洲多方树敌；上周六在布鲁塞尔举行的一个同性恋活动上，有人戴着普京面孔的面具游行，面具被涂成了粉红色，并抹上了蓝色眼影和红色唇膏。
Even among far-right groups, the sympathy for Russia and suspicion of Washington are in part tactical: Focused on clawing back power from the European Union’s bureaucracy, they seize any cause that puts them at odds with policy makers in Brussels and the conventional wisdom of European elites.
即使在极右团体中，对俄罗斯的同情和对华盛顿的怀疑也有一部分是出于战术上的考虑：为了从欧盟官僚手中夺回权力，他们抓住一切事由，和布鲁塞尔的政策制定者以及欧洲精英阶层的传统智慧唱对台戏。
But they also reflect a general crumbling of public trust in the beliefs and institutions that have dominated Europe since the end of World War II, including the Continent’s relationship with the United States.
但是，这也反映了公众对二战后主导欧洲的信念和体制出现质疑，其中也包括欧洲大陆与美国的关系。
“Europe is a big sick body,” said Alain de Benoist, a French philosopher and a founder of the Research and Study Group for European Civilization, based in Paris.
“欧洲是一具庞大的病躯，”法国哲学家阿兰·德伯努瓦(Alain de Benoist)说，他是位于巴黎的欧洲文明和研究小组(Research and Study Group for European Civilization)的创建者之一。
Mr. de Benoist, a leading figure in a French school of political thought known as the “new right,” said Russia “is now obviously the principal alternative to American hegemony.” Mr. Putin, he added, is perhaps “not the savior of humanity,” but “there are many good reasons to be pro-Russian.”
德伯努瓦是被称为“新右派”的法国政治思想学派的领军人物，他说，“现在很明显，俄罗斯是美国霸权的主要替代品。”他说普京也许“不是人性的救星”，但是“亲俄有很多很好的理由”。
Some of Russia’s European fans, particularly those with a religious bent, are attracted by Mr. Putin’s image as a muscular foe of homosexuality and decadent Western ways. Others, like Aymeric Chauprade, a foreign policy adviser to the National Front’s leader, Marine Le Pen, and the keynote speaker at the party’s rally near Versailles, are motivated more by geopolitical calculations that stress Russia’s role as a counterweight to American power.
俄罗斯的一些欧洲拥趸，尤其是那些有宗教倾向的，被普京强烈反同性恋和腐朽西式思维的形象所吸引。另外一些人，比如国民阵线领导者的外交政策顾问埃梅里克·肖布拉德（Aymeric Chauprade），以及在凡尔赛附近的集会上做主旨发言的马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)，则更多地出于地缘政治方面的考虑，强调俄罗斯具有制衡美国的作用。
No longer dismissed, as they were for decades, as fringe cranks steeped in anti-Semitism and other noxious beliefs from Europe’s fascist past, the National Front and like-minded counterparts elsewhere on the Continent are expected to post strong gains in this week’s election, which begins on Thursday in Britain and the Netherlands and then rolls across Europe through Sunday.
几十年来，国民阵线和欧洲大陆其他地方的类似组织，一直被作为沉浸在反犹主义和欧洲往昔法西斯主义等有毒信念中的怪胎而被无视，但现在他们不再被无视了。这些组织有望在本周的选举中获得可观的票数。选举本周四在英国和荷兰拉开序幕，周日在欧洲全面展开。
But they are unlikely to form a cohesive bloc: Nationalists from different countries tend to squabble, not cooperate.
但他们不可能形成一个有凝聚力的集团：来自不同国家的民族主义者往往会彼此争吵，而不是同心协力。
Nigel Farage, the leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party, a group zealously opposed to the European Union, and a critic of American foreign policy, is already engaged in a bitter feud with Ms. Le Pen.
英国独立党(United Kingdom Independence Party)领袖奈杰尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)已经和勒庞发生龃龉。独立党强烈反对欧盟，并批评美国外交政策，
But Mr. Farage and Ms. Le Pen have at least found some common ground on Russia. The British politician recently named Mr. Putin as the world leader he most admired, “as an operator but not as a human being,” he told a British magazine. Ms. Le Pen has also expressed admiration for Mr. Putin and called for a strategic alliance with the Kremlin, proposing a “Pan-European union” that would include Russia.
但法拉奇和勒庞已至少在俄罗斯的问题上拥有一些共同点。这位英国政界人士最近告诉一家英国杂志说，普京“作为一个操作者，而不是作为一个人”，是他最崇拜的全球领导人。勒庞也表示钦佩普京，并呼吁与克里姆林宫结成战略联盟，组建一个包括俄罗斯在内的“泛欧联盟”。
Luc Michel, the Belgian head of the Eurasian Observatory, which receives some financial support from Russian companies but promotes itself as independent and apolitical, champions the establishment of a new “Eurasian” alliance, stretching from Vladivostok in Russia to Lisbon in Portugal and purged of American influence. The National Front, preoccupied with recovering sovereign powers surrendered to Brussels, has shown little enthusiasm for a new Eurasian bloc. But it, too, bristles at Europe’s failure to project itself as a global player independent from America, and looks to Russia for help.
比利时人吕克·米歇尔(Luc Michel)是欧亚民主与选举观察机构(Eurasian Observatory)的领导者，该组织从俄罗斯公司那里接受了一些资金支持，但自称是无关政治的独立机构。米歇尔支持建立一个从俄罗斯符拉迪沃斯托克一直延伸到葡萄牙里斯本的新“欧亚”联盟，清除美国的影响。而国民阵线强烈主张恢复法国主权力量，不再受制于布鲁塞尔，因此对于这种新的欧亚集团几乎没有热情。但对于欧洲没有独立于美国，成为世界上的一支重要力量，国民阵线感到愤怒，同样也希望从俄罗斯那里寻求帮助。
Speaking at the recent election rally, Marion Maréchal-Le Pen, a member of the French Parliament and the niece of Marine Le Pen, complained that European leaders, at the behest of Washington, roll out the red carpet for repressive autocracies like Saudi Arabia and Qatar but view “Russians as xenophobic monsters.” The European Union, she added, “is the poodle of the United States.”
法国议员玛丽安·马雷夏尔-勒庞(Marion Maréchal-Le Pen)是马琳·勒庞的侄女，她在最近的竞选集会上发言时抱怨说，欧洲领导人在华盛顿的授意下，为在沙特阿拉伯和卡塔尔等国压制民众的独裁者铺开了红地毯，但却把“俄罗斯人视为排外的怪物”。她还说欧盟“是美国的贵妇犬”。
Resistance to American power has long and deep roots in France, particularly on the left, which, during the Cold War, often sided with the Soviet Union. The French right, fiercely opposed to communism, has been less hostile in the main to the United States but, on its fringes, often sees America as a threat to French power, values and lifestyle.
抵制美国的力量早就在法国深深扎了根，特别是在左翼团体中；冷战期间，这些团体经常站在苏联一边。强烈反共的法国右翼对美国没有那么敌视，但是右翼的边缘团体却常常把美国视为对法国影响力、价值观和生活方式的威胁。
In an interview, Mr. Chauprade denied being anti-American and said he only objected to United States intolerance of rival powers and views. A big part of the crisis in Ukraine, he said, has been the West’s inability to accept that Russia has a legitimate point of view.
在接受采访时，肖布拉德否认自己是反美人士，说自己反对的只是美国对敌对势力和观点采取不宽容态度。他说，乌克兰危机的一个重要推动因素，就是西方不能接受俄罗斯的观念也有其正当性。