The euro zone has stabilized markedly in the last year, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, said on Thursday, as he offered a slightly more upbeat assessment of the prospects for growth.
周四，欧洲央行(European Central Bank)行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)表示欧元区去年明显趋于稳定，并对经济增长前景给出了一个稍微乐观一些的评价。
“We are seeing possibly the first signs this significant improvement in confidence and interest rates is finding its way to the economy,” Mr. Draghi said at a news conference after the bank’s decision to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent.
欧洲央行决定将基准利率维持在历史最低水平0.5%不变。德拉吉在随后的新闻发布会上称，“这有可能是我们第一次看到信心和利率方面的显著改善开始在经济中有所体现。”
The still fragile state of the euro zone economy means that any decision to raise interest rates is still a long way off, Mr. Draghi indicated. Policy makers expect “the key E.C.B. interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time,” Mr. Draghi said, repeating a pledge he first made a month earlier.
德拉吉暗示，欧元区经济仍很脆弱，这意味着提高利率的决定仍遥遥无期。他说，决策者预计，“欧洲央行的关键利率将在相当长一段时间维持在当前水平，或是降至更低，”从而重申了一个月前的承诺。
In London on Thursday, Britain’s central bank, the Bank of England, also decided to hold interest rates steady.
周四在伦敦，英国央行英格兰银行(Bank of England)也决定维持利率水平不变。
The Bank of England held its interest rate at 0.5 percent, also a record low, and made no change to its program of economic stimulus, leaving the target at £375 billion, or about $570 billion. In Britain, which does not use the euro, the government reported last week that the economy grew 0.6 percent in the second quarter from the previous quarter and that all main industries were reporting faster growth for the first time in three years.
英格兰银行不仅将利率维持在0.5%的历史最低水平，而且对经济刺激计划未做改动，目标仍为3750亿英镑，约合3.47万亿元人民币。英国没有使用欧元，政府上周公布的数据显示，英国经济第二季度环比增长0.6%，全部主要行业三年来首次实现较快增长。
For Mr. Draghi, it has been about a year since he defused fears of a euro zone breakup by promising to do “whatever it takes” to keep the common currency together. That expression of resolve helped check the euro zone’s decline, but was not enough to push the region into growth again.
对德拉吉而言，他曾承诺“竭尽所能”保住欧元，从而缓解了对欧元区分崩离析的忧虑，现在距那时已过去了大约一年。那番决心的展示有助于阻止欧元区的衰落，但还不足以推动该地区经济再次增长。
Asked to take stock of the state of the euro zone today, Mr. Draghi listed numerous improvements, including stronger exports from countries like Spain and Italy; lower market interest rates for government bonds; and progress by political leaders in reducing their deficits and improving economic performance. “The picture seems to be better from all angles than it was a year ago,” he said.
当被问到对欧元区现今状态的评价时，德拉吉举出了诸多进展，比如西班牙和意大利等国的出口更为强劲、各国国债的市场利率降低，以及政坛领导人在削减本国赤字和改善经济表现方面的进展。“从各个角度看来，形势均好于一年前，”他说。
But he took a more cautious view than many analysts of recent surveys of business sentiment, which have raised hopes that the euro zone economy could be emerging from recession. The surveys “tentatively confirm the expectation of a stabilization of economic activity at low levels,” Mr. Draghi said.
不过，相较许多分析师，德拉吉对近期商业情绪调查的解读更为谨慎。调查激起了人们对欧元区可能正摆脱衰退的希望。德拉吉则表示，调查“初步明确了经济活动稳定在低水平的预期”。
At least one analyst detected a nuanced shift in Mr. Draghi’s assessment.
至少有一名分析师发现德拉吉的评估有细微变化。
“If there was any change at all, his description of economic prospects sounded slightly more optimistic,” Jörg Krämer, chief economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, said in a note to clients.
德国商业银行(Commerzbank)驻法兰克福的首席经济师约尔格·克雷默(Jörg Krämer)在一份给客户的报告中称，“如果说有什么变化的话，那就是他对经济前景的描绘听起来稍微乐观了一些。”
“Slightly” is the crucial word. Credit for businesses remains scarce, Mr. Draghi noted, and the labor market is weak. Unemployment in the euro zone was stuck at a record high of 12.1 percent in June, according to official data published Wednesday, though there was an infinitesimal decline in the total number of jobless people: 24,000 fewer people were out of work in May out of a total of 19 million.
“稍微”就是关键词。德拉吉称，对企业的贷款仍然很少，而且劳动力市场疲软。周三公布的官方数据显示，6月份欧元区的失业率达到创纪录的12.1%，尽管总失业人数出现了微乎其微的下降：5月份，1900万的总失业人口减少了2.4万人。
Even if the euro zone economy does emerge from recession soon, economists say, growth will be weak and it will take years before joblessness in countries like Spain — where more than a quarter of the work force is unemployed — returns to tolerable levels.
经济学家称，即使欧元区经济可以迅速走出衰退，增长也会很疲软，而且西班牙等国要让失业率恢复到可以接受的程度，还需要很多年。现在，西班牙逾四分之一的劳动力没有工作。
With interest rates already at record lows, Mr. Draghi has in recent months been trying to use his powers of persuasion to talk down market rates and make credit more available to businesses and consumers. Last month, he broke with precedent by promising to keep rates low for an extended period. Before then, the central bank refused to offer so-called forward guidance.
利率已经处于历史最低水平，德拉吉近几个月来一直试图利用自己的说服力降低市场利率，让企业及消费者贷款更加容易。上个月，他打破先例，承诺在相当长的一段时间内保持低利率水平。在那之前，央行一直拒绝提供所谓的前瞻指导。
On Thursday, Mr. Draghi contested comments by some analysts that his forward guidance has not had much effect. It was successful in calming financial markets, he said, and partly successful in pushing down short-term market interest rates.
有些分析师认为，德拉吉的前瞻指导没有多少效果。周四，德拉吉反驳了这种说法。他说，他的前瞻指导成功地使市场冷静了下来，而且在降低短期市场利率方面也取得了部分成功。
He left open the possibility that interest rates could fall further, but refused to say whether members of the bank’s Governing Council discussed a rate cut when they met on Thursday.
他并不排除利率进一步下降的可能性，但是拒绝透露该行理事会是否会在周四开会时讨论利率下调的问题。
The job of the European Central Bank has been complicated recently by signs that the United States Federal Reserve could begin to gradually roll back its economic stimulus. On Wednesday, the Fed indicated it would continue its bond-buying program for at least another month.
最近，由于有迹象显示美联储(United States Federal Reserve)会开始逐渐收缩其经济刺激计划，欧洲央行的工作变得棘手起来。周三，美联储表示，其债券购买计划将至少再持续一个月。
Expectations of an eventually tighter United States monetary policy have unsettled financial markets in Europe, prompting Mr. Draghi to reassure investors that the European bank was a long way from going in the same direction.
对于美国最终会出台从紧的货币政策的预期，让欧洲金融市场产生了动荡，从而促使德拉吉向投资者保证，欧洲央行距离转向和美国一样的方向还有很长一段路要走。