The highest European court on Tuesday gave individuals the right to influence what can be learned about them through Web searches, rejecting long-established practices about the free flow of information on the Internet.
本周二，欧洲最高法院做出一项裁决称，当他人通过网络搜索某个人时，这名被搜索的个人有权对搜索结果施加影响，此举摈弃了信息在互联网上自由流动的长期惯例。
Before, people who did not like what was being said about them online needed to go the original source of the information and persuade the website to delete it. That was arduous and often impossible. But the European court said the middleman — the search engine — could be asked to simply delete the links.
以前，如果你不喜欢网上关于你的信息，你需要找到这些信息的原始来源网站，说服他们将其删除。这个任务相当艰巨，往往不可能办到。但这所欧洲法院表示，你可以要求中间机构——搜索引擎——直接删除相关链接。
In some ways, the court is trying to erase the last 25 years, when people learned to routinely Google every potential suitor, partner or friend. In 1990, finding out the true history of a blind date or business collaborator was practically impossible.
从某种程度上说，该法院正试图抹除过去的25年，人们在这段时期学会了在网上搜索每一个潜在追求者、合作伙伴或者朋友的信息。1990年时，你几乎不可能发现一个相亲对象或商业伙伴的真实历史。
“It could result in giving people a line-item veto over results on searches about themselves,” said Jonathan Zittrain, a professor at Harvard Law School. “Some will see this as corrupting. Others will see it as purifying.”
“这可能会赋予人们一种逐项否决权，让他们对涉及自身的搜索结果进行逐项否决，”哈佛法学院教授乔纳森·齐特林(Jonathan Zittrain)说。“有些人会认为这是倒退，有些人会视其为进步。”
He is siding with the former group, warning that Google research results could become equivalent to About.Me.
他倾向于前者，并警告说，谷歌的搜索结果可能会变得跟About.Me类似。
Others argue that search was never neutral, and that the ruling, by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, is in tune with how people want to live.
其他一些人则认为，搜索从来都没有中立性，位于卢森堡的欧洲法院(European Court of Justice)做出的这项裁决，和人的生活愿望是相符的。
“More and more Internet users want a little of the ephemerality and the forgetfulness of the pre-digital days,” said Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, professor of Internet governance at the Oxford Internet Institute. “They don’t want their drunken pictures to follow them the next 30 years.”
“越来越多的互联网用户希望能拥有一点点数字时代到来之前的那种‘短暂性’和‘被遗忘的权力’，”牛津大学互联网研究院(Oxford Internet Institute)的互联网治理教授维克托·迈尔-舍恩伯格(Viktor Mayer-Schönberger)说，“他们不希望自己醉酒的照片在未来30年中都如影随形。”
The court said data privacy officials in European countries would have the final say on whether a link should be removed, but gave no objective standard beyond saying that search links should be “relevant.” It also said Google should err on the side of removing links when requested.
该法院表示，一个链接是否应该被删除，最后得由欧洲国家的数据隐私官员说了算，但法院没有给出客观标准，只是说这种搜索链接应该是“重要的”。它还表示，当收到删除链接的要求时，谷歌应该采取宁删勿留的原则。
But one person’s relevance is another’s ancient history. Should a businessman be able to expunge a link to his bankruptcy a decade ago? How about five years? Could a would-be politician get a drunken-driving arrest removed by calling it a youthful folly?
但是对一个人来说重要的信息，对另一个人可能是久远的历史。一名商人应该能够抹除一个通向他十年前破产消息的链接吗？五年前的呢？一个希望从政的人可以用年少无知为理由，删除他酒后驾车被捕消息的链接吗？
The burden of fulfilling the court’s order will fall largely on Google, which is by far the dominant search engine in Europe.
履行这项法院裁决的重担将主要落在谷歌肩上，它目前是在欧洲占主导的搜索引擎。
The decision stunned Google and just about everyone else. Google said it would need time to study the decision, which is a final judgment and cannot be appealed.The case before the court involved a Spanish lawyer who tried to get Google to remove links to online newspaper accounts from the 1990s of his debt and tax troubles. The court ruled that companies like Google could be “obliged to remove links to web pages” unless there are “particular reasons, such as the role played by the data subject in public life,” not to, according to a summary of the judgment. A search engine would have to remove the links even when the original “publication in itself on those pages is lawful,” the court said.
这个决定震惊了谷歌和其他几乎所有人。谷歌表示，它需要时间来研究这项决定。这是一个最终判决，不能上诉。法院审理的这桩案件涉及一位西班牙律师，他试图让谷歌删除一些链接；这些链接是关于上世纪90年代报纸对此人债务和税务麻烦的报道。从法院裁决的一份摘要看，法院认为谷歌等公司“有义务删除通向网页的链接”，除非“有特殊原因证明不能这么做，比如这些数据资料在公共生活中发挥作用”。法院表示，即使原始消息“在网页上发布本身是合法的”，搜索引擎也必须删除链接。
The ruling would not necessarily require that the original publisher of the information delete it from its own website — arguing that individual websites are harder for users to find than information gathered through the data-sweeping capabilities of a search engine like Google’s.
这项裁决并未要求信息的原始发布者一定要在自己的网站上删除它——称用户比较难于找到单个站点的信息，而谷歌等搜索引擎具有数据扫描能力，它们汇集的信息比较容易找到。
Al Verney, a spokesman for Google, said in a statement that the decision was “a disappointing ruling for search engines and online publishers in general,” and that the company would “take time” to analyze the implications. Google was “very surprised” that the judgment “differs so dramatically” from a preliminary ruling by the court last year that mostly went in the company’s favor, he said.
谷歌发言人阿尔·维尼(Al Verney)在一份声明中说，“对于搜索引擎和在线出版商整体来说，这一裁决令人失望”，该公司会“慢慢花时间”来分析其影响。他说谷歌对这个裁决感到“非常惊讶”，因为它和该法院去年做出的一个有利于谷歌的初步裁决“大相径庭”。
Some Internet experts said the court had devised an unwieldy and expensive formula for search engines like Google that could lead to less information being searchable online.
一些互联网专家表示，法院给谷歌这样的搜索引擎制定了一个难以操作、代价昂贵的方案，可能会减少人们在网上可以搜到的信息。
“Having search engines conduct a public interest test is problematic, not least because they will be challenged to carry out the kind of thorough assessments that can done by courts and other public authorities,” said Orla Lynskey, a lecturer in law at the London School of Economics. “I expect the default action by search engines will be to take down information in response to complaints,” she said.
“让搜索引擎来开展公共利益测试，这个做法很有问题，尤其是因为对于它们来说，开展法院和其他公共机构可以进行的那种彻底评估是个挑战。”伦敦经济学院(London School of Economics)的法律讲师奥尔拉·林斯基(Orla Lynskey)说。“我预计，搜索引擎会把‘遇到投诉就直接删掉链接’当作默认做法，”她说。
A trade group for information technology companies said the court’s decision posed a threat to free expression in Europe. ‘’This ruling opens the door to large-scale private censorship in Europe,” said James Waterworth, the head of the Brussels office for the Computer and Communications Industry Association, which has Facebook, Microsoft and Google among its members, as well as European companies like BT and T-Mobile. ‘’While the ruling likely means to offer protections, our concern is it could also be misused by politicians or others with something to hide who could demand to have information taken down,” he said.
一个IT行业协会表示，该法院的判决对欧洲的言论自由构成了威胁。“这项裁决将在欧洲开启大规模私人审查的大门，”詹姆斯·沃特沃斯(James Waterworth)说，他是计算机与通信行业协会(Computer and Communications Industry Association)布鲁塞尔办公室的负责人，Facebook、微软、谷歌，以及BT、T-Mobile等欧洲公司都是该协会成员。“这项裁决可能意在提供保护，但我们担心政客或其他一些有事情要隐瞒的人会滥用它，要求搜索引擎删除某些信息的链接，”他说。
The judgment on Tuesday reversed what had seemed a preliminary victory for Google in June 2013, when an adviser to the court, Niilo Jaaskinen, issued an opinion implying that Google did not need to remove the links.
本周二的裁决推翻了谷歌在2013年6月获得的初步胜利，当时该法院的顾问尼罗·贾思肯南(Niilo Jaaskinen)发布意见书，其看法是谷歌不需要删除链接。