LONDON — The terrorist attack in London, with its combination of random deaths and the strong symbolism of Parliament shut down, comes in an important election year in critical European countries, as well as at a moment of high anxiety — about the rise of populism, migration and the integration of Muslims.
伦敦——伦敦的恐怖袭击不仅随机导致无辜者的死亡，它造成的议会关闭也产生了强烈的象征意味。在几个主要欧洲国家重要的选举之年，以及人们对民粹主义兴起、移民和穆斯林的融合感到高度焦虑的时刻，这场袭击就这样发生了。
With France, Germany and possibly Italy going to the polls, analysts have long wondered whether an act of terrorism could jolt electoral dynamics and boost the broader “Europe in crisis” narrative that has elevated far-right parties across the Continent.
法国、德国，或许还有意大利即将展开选举，分析人士长期以来一直怀疑恐怖主义行为是否会扰乱选举动态，并推动更广泛的“欧洲危机”叙事，这一叙事促进了整个欧洲大陆的极右势力崛起。
“This will have an echo in France and in Germany,” said Mark Leonard, the director of the European Council on Foreign Relations. “It becomes part of a pattern. It’s another link in the chain.”
“这将在法国和德国引起回音，”欧洲对外关系委员会主任马克·莱昂纳德(Mark Leonard)说。“它成了一种模式的一部分。是链条上的的一个环节。”
But if it is an echo, it may be a muted one. Many European voters, anxious but increasingly inured, have essentially priced in the cost of terrorism — at least when it happens outside their own borders and when the toll is not so high. A relatively limited attack, like the one in London, was considered unlikely to shift the electoral terrain.
但是这个回音可能并不大。许多欧洲选民感到焦虑，但也日益感到习惯，基本上已经把这种恐怖主义代价当作生活的一部分——至少当袭击事件发生在自己的国界之外，而且伤亡人数不高的时候是如此。像伦敦这样较为有限的袭击被认为不太可能改变选举形势。
“This connects London to Paris, Nice, Berlin and Brussels in the context of the political space we’re in,” said Robin Niblett, director of Chatham House, rattling off the list of European capitals that have been scarred in the last two years. While a terrorist attack may feed the narrative of a minority, “politically it can also pull people together at a time when we’re at a constant risk of fragmenting,” he said.
“在我们身处的政治环境里，这件事把伦敦与巴黎、尼斯、柏林和布鲁塞尔联系在一起，”英国皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)的主任罗宾·尼布利特(Robin Niblett)列出过去两年里曾遭恐怖袭击的欧洲各国都市。他说，恐怖袭击可能会为一种少数群体的叙事提供养分，“在政治方面，当我们正不断处于分裂的危险之中时，它其实可以把人们团结在一起。”
Unity is what the leaders of the European Union want to emphasize when they gather this weekend in Rome to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the bloc. But the London attack is a reminder of yet another problem on the list: Britain’s pending exit from the bloc, regional divisions, economic disparities, unemployment, anti-Europe sentiment and terrorism.
欧盟领导人于本周末在罗马集会，庆祝该集团成立60周年，他们想强调的正是“团结”。但是，伦敦的这次袭击提醒人们，在各种问题之外，还有另一个问题：除了英国正在退出欧盟、地域分歧、经济差距、失业、反欧情绪之外，还有恐怖主义。
While the effect of another large-scale attack in a voting country could still be dramatic, the ability of Islamic radicals to organize such assaults appears to have been sharply diminished. Like voters, police and counterintelligence officials are also getting used to the threat and have toughened tracking and border controls in many parts of Europe.
如果一个正在投票的国家再度发生一次大规模袭击，影响仍然会很大，但是伊斯兰激进组织发起这种袭击的能力似乎急剧下降。和选民们一样，警察和反情报官员也习惯了这种威胁，并在欧洲许多地区加强了追踪和边境管制。
Even as British investigators looked for evidence that might link this lone attacker to a larger network, Europeans seemed particularly hardened to terrorist attacks like this one — unsophisticated, if almost unstoppable, the death toll relatively small and a far cry from the organized mayhem perpetrated in Paris in January and November 2015.
虽然英国调查人员还在寻找可能的证据，将这个单独的攻击者与更大的网络联系起来，但欧洲人似乎对伦敦这样的恐怖袭击变得尤其无动于衷。这次袭击虽然几乎无法预防，但并不成熟，死亡人数也相对较少，同2015年1月和11月发生在巴黎的两场有组织的大混乱相去甚远。
The London attack, then, was a reminder of ways that the West will always be vulnerable: The means used were ordinary and available everywhere; the targets were high-profile landmarks; the victims were civilians of 10 nationalities going about their daily lives. For that, there may be no remedy a ballot box can provide.
伦敦的这次袭击提醒人们，西方永远在某些方面是易受攻击的：恐怖分子所使用的手段是普通的，随处可以获得；他们的目标是显著的地标；受害者是来自十余个国家的平民，他们只是过着自己的正常生活。为此，给谁投票也于事无补。
But the rhetoric in and around Europe remains generally incendiary, as the problems facing it loom. Just hours before the London attack, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey issued a strange warning to the Western nations that have criticized his rule.
但在面临的问题逼近时，欧洲境内和周边地区的论调总体上依然颇具煽动性。就在伦敦发生袭击的几个小时前，土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)对指责其统治的西方国家发出了一个奇怪的警告。
“If you go on behaving like that, tomorrow nowhere in the world, none of the Europeans, Westerners would be able to walk in the streets in peace, safely,” he said.
“如果你们继续这么做，到明天，在世界任何地方都没有一个欧洲人、西方人能够安全地走在和平的街道上，”他说。
It’s hard to know what he meant, but he has repeatedly threatened to renege on a deal with Brussels under which he has restrained the flow of Middle Eastern migrants to Europe.
他的意思难以判断，但他多次威胁要撕毁与布鲁塞尔签订的一项协议。该协议要求他限制流向欧洲的中东移民。
That migration, sometimes erroneously, sometimes not, has been linked to prominent terrorist attacks in European capitals, which have been interspersed with numerous others much more minor in smaller towns and cities, including in Germany and France.
中东移民同欧洲多国首都发生的著名恐怖袭击被联系在了一起，这种联想有时候是错误的，有时候却是正确的。除首都发生的袭击外，德国和法国等国家的小城镇也发生了许多规模小很多的袭击。
Many attackers, like Khalid Masood, 52, who had a long criminal history but no terrorism convictions, have been homegrown, if influenced from abroad, particularly by the Islamic State. Certainly the group, which called the London attacker one of its soldiers, has been interested in staging an attack in Britain for at least the past two years.
52岁的哈立德·马苏德(Khalid Masood)有长期犯罪历史，但从没被判定犯恐怖主义罪。很多袭击者和他一样，即便是受了国外，尤其是伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的影响，但仍是土生土长的本国人。该组织称伦敦的袭击者是它的战士。它当然有意在英国制造一场袭击，至少在过去两年里是这样。
The British have said publicly that they have disrupted 13 plots since July 2013, when a soldier, Lee Rigby, was hit by a car and then knifed to death by British Muslim converts. At least two of the disrupted plots, the British said, were meant to be larger scale.
英国公开表示，自2013年7月士兵李·里格比(Lee Rigby)被多名皈依伊斯兰教的英国人先是用车撞倒，后用刀杀害后，他们已经阻止了13起阴谋。英国称，其中至少两起阴谋的规模超过伦敦的袭击。
But organizing larger attacks has apparently been difficult in Britain, which has stronger border controls than most of Europe and strict gun laws. Britain is also known for good counterterrorism work.
但在英国组织更大规模的袭击似乎比较困难。英国的边境管制比大欧洲大部分地区都严格，并且有严厉的枪支法律。英国也以出色的反恐工作闻名。
“I’m a bit wary of saying this is reflective of massive success by the authorities,” said Raffaello Pantucci, director of international security studies at the Royal United Services Institute. “But the fact is we have seen plotters in the U.K. have had a lot of difficulty getting access to guns and finding other means.”
“我不敢说这反映出当局取得了巨大的成功，”皇家三军联合研究所(Royal United Services Institute)国际安全研究中心主任拉菲洛·潘图奇(Raffaello Pantucci)说。“但事实是，我们发现密谋在英国发动袭击的人很难弄到枪或找到其他方式。”