LONDON — For years, Europe has tried to set the global standard for climate-change regulation, creating tough rules on emissions, mandating more use of renewable energy sources and arguably sacrificing some economic growth in the name of saving the planet.
伦敦——多年以来，欧洲一直在尝试设定气候变化法规的国际标准：制定严苛的温室气体排放规则，要求使用更多的可再生能源，出于拯救地球的目的，在经济增长方面做出些许牺牲。
But now even Europe seems to be hitting its environmentalist limits.
然而现在，就连欧洲似乎也已到了自己的环保极限。
High energy costs, declining industrial competitiveness and a recognition that the economy is unlikely to rebound strongly any time soon are leading policy makers to begin easing up in their drive for more aggressive climate regulation.
高昂的能源成本、日益下降的工业竞争力、对经济不太可能在近期出现强烈反弹的认知，正在促使政策制定者们开始放缓对更加严苛的气候法规的追求。
On Wednesday, the European Union proposed an end to binding national targets for renewable energy production after 2020. Instead, it substituted an overall European goal likely to be much harder to enforce.
本周三，欧盟(European Union)提出在2020年后，终止针对欧盟各国的具有约束力的可再生能源生产目标。取而代之的是，它提交了一个欧洲的整体目标，而这个目标的落实可能困难得多。
It also decided against proposing laws on environmental damage and safety during the extraction of shale gas by a controversial drilling process known as fracking. It opted instead for a series of minimum principles it said it would monitor.
欧盟还决定，针对颇具争议性的、被称为水力压裂法的页岩气开采技术，不再就其环境损害及环保安全问题制定法规。欧盟转而选择提出了一系列的底线原则，并称将对这些底线实施监控。
Europe pressed ahead on other fronts, aiming for a cut of 40 percent in Europe’s carbon emissions by 2030, double the current target of 20 percent by 2020. Officials said the new proposals were not evidence of diminished commitment to environmental discipline but reflected the complicated reality of bringing the 28 countries of the European Union together behind a policy.
欧洲推进了其他方面的进程，致力于到2030年把欧洲的碳排放削减40%，达到目前设立的2020年削减目标的一倍。官员们说，新提案不代表欧洲对环保规章的承诺被削弱了，而是反映了把欧盟28个成员国团结在一个政策背后的复杂现实。
“It will require a lot from Europe,” said Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner for climate action. “If all other big economies followed our example the world would be a better place.”
欧盟委员会负责气候行动的委员康妮·赫泽高(Connie Hedegaard)说，“欧洲需要为此付出巨大的努力。如果其他大型经济体以我们为榜样，世界就会变得更美好。”
But the proposals were seen as a substantial backtrack by environmental groups, and evidence that economic factors were starting to influence the climate debate in ways they previously had not in Europe.
不过，此次提案被各个环保组织视为巨大的倒退。它们认为，这表明经济因素正开始以前所未有的方式影响欧洲的环境辩论。
Friends of the Earth, an environmental group, described the proposals as “totally inadequate” and “off the radar of what climate science tells us to do in Europe to avoid climate catastrophe.”
环保组织地球之友(Friends of the Earth)说，此次提案“远远不够”，它“偏离了气候科学为让我们避免气候灾难，对欧洲的行动所做的定位。”
Wednesday’s proposals came from the European Commission, the Brussels-based executive arm of the 28-nation bloc, and would next require approval by the group’s member states and the European Parliament.
周三的提案来自欧盟委员会(European Commission)，它是28个欧盟成员国的执行机构，总部位于布鲁塞尔。接下来，该提案需要获得各成员国和欧洲议会(European Parliament)的批准。
José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, defended the new proposals as a hard-fought compromise and proof that it “is possible to make a marriage between industry and climate action.”
欧盟委员会主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)辩解说，新提案是艰难斗争下达成的妥协产物，它也证明，“让企业行为和气候行动联姻是可能的。”
He said the measures showed that Europe was still playing a global leadership role in reducing carbon emissions.
他说，“这些举措显示，在减少碳排放方面，欧洲依然扮演着全球领导者的角色。”
That drew a tart response from Friends of the Earth, which accused the commission of putting the immediate interests of industry ahead of Europe’s broader welfare.
他的这番言论引发了地球之友的尖刻回击，后者指责欧盟委员会把眼前的行业利益放在了范围更广泛的欧洲福祉之上。
“Barroso and his commissioners seem to have fallen for the old-think industry spin that there must be a trade-off between climate action and economic recovery,” Brook Riley, the group’s climate and energy campaigner, said in a statement. “This position completely ignores the huge financial cost of dealing with the impacts of climate change and the 500 billion euros the E.U. is spending every year on oil and gas imports.”
“巴罗佐和他的委员们似乎已经落入思维老套的行业窠臼中，那就是气候行动和经济复苏之间一定存在某种取舍。”地球之友的气候和能源活动推广人布鲁克·莱利(Brook Riley)在一则声明中说。“这种立场彻底忽视了为应对气候变化影响所产生的巨大经济成本，忽视了欧盟每年耗资5000亿欧元进口油气的现实。”
Before Wednesday’s announcement, business groups lobbied hard against more stringent targets that they worried could endanger Europe’s still very feeble economic recovery and slow the job creation needed to bring down an overall unemployment rate of nearly 11 percent.
周三的声明发表前，商业团体就大力游说，反对更严苛的环保目标，他们担忧，那将危及依然极其脆弱的欧洲经济复苏进程，放缓就业岗位的创造步伐，而新岗位的创造是降低几近11%的整体失业率所必不可少的。
In a letter sent to the European Commission this month, 14 executives at large companies called for “one single, realistic target” and warned that “the high-cost of noncompetitive technologies to decarbonise the power sector” will strain businesses already hit by Europe’s high energy prices, particularly for electricity, which costs twice what it does in the United States.
在本月致欧盟委员会的一封信中，有14名大公司的高管呼吁欧盟委员会提出“一个单一的、现实的目标”，并警告称，“电力行业中成本高昂、毫无竞争力的去碳化技术”会让已受到欧洲高价能源冲击的企业雪上加霜，尤其是电力行业，其成本是美国同行的两倍。
Ms. Hedegaard on Wednesday acknowledged that Europe needed to bring down its energy prices but said that the shift to renewable sources played a “negligible” part in the problem. But she also took a swipe at what she suggested were unrealistic demands by environmental activists, noting that “we are trying to do something that is achievable, that is doable and practical for 28 governments to back.”
周三，赫泽高承认，欧洲需要降低能源价格，不过她说，转向可再生资源的策略，在这个问题上所发挥的作用“几乎可以忽略不计”。她也对环保活动人士的要求予以了回击，说这些要求是不切实际的，并指出“我们正在设法做一些能做成的事情，它们是切实可行的，是可以赢得28个成员国政府支持的。”