Five years after the global economy was falling at its fastest rate, Western economies are still failing to gain much-needed momentum, despite the efforts of central bankers on both sides of the Atlantic.
全球经济经历最严重下滑的五年之后，尽管大西洋两岸的中央银行家们采取了行动，西方经济体目前仍然无法获得急需的增长势能。
The challenges facing the United States and Europe were evident on Thursday, with the latest figures on growth from Washington showing signs of underlying weakness as the European Central Bank unexpectedly cut interest rates to a record low, reflecting the threat of deflation.
周四，美国和欧洲面临的挑战显而易见：来自华盛顿的最新增长数据显示出了经济疲弱的种种迹象，与此同时，欧洲央行(European Central Bank)出人意料地将利率降至纪录低点，这反映了通货紧缩的威胁已经出现。
At first glance, the 2.8 percent annualized growth rate estimated for the United States for the third quarter might appear somewhat rosy. It was the fastest quarterly increase in output so far this year, and well above the 2 percent change economists had expected. But nearly a full point of that jump was caused by a buildup in inventory, which is likely to sap expansion in the current quarter. The annual rate of growth in consumer spending slowed sharply to 1.5 percent, the weakest quarterly increase in more than two years, while spending by the federal government fell 1.7 percent.
乍一看，美国第三季度2.8%的年化增速似乎让人乐观。这是今年迄今最快的季度增速，远高于经济学家预计的2%。但是这其中将近一个百分点来自企业库存的增加，从而可能削弱本季度的经济增长。消费支出的年化增速大幅下降到1.5%，这是两年多以来最弱的季度增长，同时，联邦政府支出下降了1.7%。
Last month’s government shutdown did not take place until after the period surveyed in the report, but the decline in federal spending in July, August and September showed how the across-the-board budget cuts imposed by Congress this year were beginning to bite. Over the last four quarters, federal spending cuts have shaved annual growth by half a percent, according to Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays.
上个月的政府停摆发生在上述报告所反映的时间段之后，但7、8、9月的联邦支出下降显示出，今年国会实施的全盘预算削减已经开始产生负面影响。巴克莱银行(Barclays)首席美国经济学家迪安·梅基(Dean Maki)说，过去四个季度，联邦的支出削减导致经济增长损失了0.5个百分点。
“Clearly, there was an upside surprise in the headline figure, but it doesn’t change our thinking about growth,” Mr. Maki said. “One common theme between the U.S. and Europe is that government spending has been a drag on growth.”
梅基说，“显然整体数据有让人惊喜的地方，但这没有改变我们对增长的看法。美国和欧洲有一个共同的主题，那就是政府支出一直在拖累增长。”
While the United States and Europe share many problems, it is clear that the situation on much of the Continent is much worse.
尽管美国和欧洲有许多相同的问题，显然，欧洲大陆上很大一部分地区的情况要糟糕得多。
Many economies in Europe are only now stabilizing after six quarters of renewed recession, and unemployment across the 17 nations that share the euro currency stands at around 12 percent. In especially hard-hit countries like Greece and Spain, the unemployment rate is more than twice that.
在长达六个季度的再度衰退之后，欧洲的许多经济体现在仅仅是在稳定经济形势，欧元区17国的失业率大约在12%左右。在希腊和西班牙等受影响特别严重的国家，失业率是这一水平的两倍还多。
The latest data on unemployment in the United States is due out on Friday, but in September the jobless rate stood at 7.2 percent. On Thursday, the Labor Department reported that new jobless claims in the week ending Nov. 2 dropped by 9,000 to 336,000.
美国最新的失业数据将于周五出炉，9月的失业率为7.2%。周四，劳工部(Labor Department)称，在11月2日结束的这一周，新申领失业救济的人数减少了9000人，为33.6万人。
The central bank’s move on Thursday was prompted by a sudden drop in euro zone inflation to an annual rate of 0.7 percent in October, well below the bank’s official target of about 2 percent. The decline raised the specter of deflation, a sustained fall in prices that can destroy the confidence of consumers and the profits of companies, along with the jobs they provide.
欧元区的通胀水平在10月突然下降到0.7%，远远低于欧洲央行大约2%的目标，这促使该央行周四采取了上述举动。这一下降引发了对通货紧缩的担忧，物价继续下降可能会打击消费者信心和企业利润，以及企业提供的就业机会。
While austerity has taken root in both Washington and many European capitals, crimping fiscal policy, the courses charted by central bankers in terms of monetary policy have diverged. Thursday’s rate cut in Europe was a step in the right direction, Mr. Posen said, but he suggested that the central bankers in Frankfurt should follow the lead of the Federal Reserve and go much further.
华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)所长亚当·S·波森(Adam S. Posen)说，尽管华盛顿和许多欧洲国家普遍实施紧缩措施，从而打乱了财政政策，央行家们在货币政策方面设定的路线已经渐行渐远。波森表示，欧洲周四的降息是在正确方向上迈出的一步，但他指出，法兰克福的央行家们应该学习美联储，走的再远一些。
Unlike the European bank, the Fed has moved aggressively to stimulate the American economy, not only cutting short-term interest rates to near zero but embarking on three rounds of asset purchases aimed at lowering borrowing rates and lifting the growth rate.
与欧洲央行不同，美联储采取了更为激进的举措来刺激美国经济，不仅把短期利率降低到接近零的水平，还实施了三轮旨在降低贷款利率、提振经济增长的资产购买。
Most economists now credit the Fed with heading off the deep doldrums bedeviling Europe, while at least partly compensating for cuts in federal spending imposed by Congress and weakness in the private sector.
大多数经济学家现在认为，美联储防止了美国陷入困扰欧洲的深层次萧条，至少在一定程度上平衡了国会强加的联邦支出削减和私营部门的低迷，因此功不可没。
“The Fed opened up the floodgates and prevented even weaker growth or another recession,” said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS. “In Europe, you have fiscal tightening without anything like what we did in terms of monetary policy.”
环球通视(HIS)的首席经济学家纳里曼·贝拉韦什(Nariman Behravesh)说，“美联储放开了闸门，防止了增速走低和经济再度陷入衰退。而欧洲只有财政紧缩，其货币政策却与美国毫无相似之处。”
Thursday’s report is the government’s first estimate for the change in gross domestic product in the third quarter, and the two subsequent estimates are likely to be revised considerably as more data becomes available.
周四的报告是政府关于第三季度GDP的初次统计，随着更多数据出炉，接下来的两次统计数据可能被大幅度修正。
Looking ahead, the picture for growth remains cloudy both in the United States and overseas.
展望未来，经济增长的前景仍不明朗，无论是在美国还是海外。
Although the euro zone has technically emerged from recession, recent economic indicators have sent conflicting signals about the strength of the recovery. Few economists expect a strong rebound, but some are more pessimistic than others.
尽管技术上来说欧元区已经走出衰退，最近的经济指标释放了有关经济复苏势头的矛盾信号。几乎没有经济学家预计欧洲经济会强势反弹，但是有些人要比其他人更加悲观。
As for the United States, economists on Wall Street estimate that the shutdown will ultimately reduce fourth-quarter growth as much as half a percentage point. And momentum was slowing even before the shutdown, with businesses becoming increasingly cautious over the summer. Expenditures on equipment fell 3.7 percent in the third quarter, reversing a 3.3 percent gain in the second quarter.
至于美国，华尔街上的经济学家估计，政府停摆将会最终导致第四季度的经济增长率减少多达0.5个百分点。即使在政府关门之前，由于企业在夏天越发谨慎，增长趋势已经放缓。第三季度，企业购买设备的支出下降了3.7%，相比之下第二季度则上涨了3.3%。
“The economy remains stuck in the mud,” Ethan Harris of Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a note to clients on Thursday. “Uncertainty over the future will cause business to delay making decisions.”
美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)的伊桑·哈里斯(Ethan Harris)在周四发给客户的报告中说，“经济仍然深陷泥潭。未来的不确定性将导致企业推迟做出决定。”