BERLIN — By the time the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, announced a $15 billion loan and lower prices on gas exports last week for Ukraine, it was clear that he had won the Battle of Kiev.
柏林——当俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)上周宣布向乌克兰提供150亿美元贷款，并降低对乌出口天然气的价格时，显然他已经在基辅之战中胜出。
It was the decisive move: Not long before, at a European Union summit, President Victor F. Yanukovich of Ukraine had essentially offered his country to the West for $20 billion, a deal the bewildered European leaders rejected. They had been negotiating the terms of an association and free trade agreement with Kiev for years; they didn’t see why they should raise their offer now.
那是决定性的一步：就在不久前一次欧盟首脑会议上，乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F.Yanukovich)实际上等于提出，以200亿美元的价格把他的国家交给西方，困惑的欧洲领导人拒绝了这笔交易。他们为了结盟和自由贸易协议的条款已经和基辅谈判多年；他们想不出有什么理由要现在提高出价。
But if Mr. Putin has won the battle, European diplomats believe they can win the war. In 2015, Ukraine will vote for a new president, and the bet is that a more pro-Western leader can rise to the office.
但如果说普京赢得了一场战斗，欧洲外交人士认为他们将赢得的是战争。2015年乌克兰会选出一个新总统，他们赌的是届时会有一个更亲西方的领导人上台。
Still, in order to be better prepared for that next round, the West should take stock of what went wrong this time.
然而，要为下一轮做好准备，西方还需要总结这一次有哪些地方做的不好。
Europe has a major strategic interest in stabilizing its Eastern neighbors, opening up markets for European goods and creating security buffers against Russia. And Ukraine is an essential cornerstone in this endeavor.
实现东欧邻国的稳定，为欧洲商品打开市场，建立针对俄罗斯的安全缓冲区，这些都对欧洲有着重大战略意义。而乌克兰是这项行动的一块关键基石。
The European Union has invested a lot of effort to bring Ukraine into the fold. But it made several mistakes: It underestimated Mr. Putin’s willingness to play geopolitical hardball, and once Kiev balked, it failed to counter the pressure that Mr. Putin applied on Mr. Yanukovich and his camp of oligarchs. These contingencies were not hard to foresee. So the question is not what went wrong, but why.
欧盟为了拉拢乌克兰已经投入了很多心血。但是它犯了好几个错误：它低估了普京采取地缘政治强硬手段的意愿，而当基辅出现畏缩时，它又没能做出有力反击，顶住普京向亚努科维奇及其寡头集团施加的压力。这些突发事件并不是很难预见。所以问题不在于出错的是什么，而是为什么。
The most obvious answer is that for structural reasons — layers of bureaucracy, multiple national interests — Europe finds fast decision making difficult. But here, Europe also suffered from indecision.
最明显的一个答案是，出于结构性原因——层层叠叠的官僚系统，方方面面的国家利益——欧洲的决策很难快起来。但是在此事上，欧洲还受制于优柔寡断。
Yes, European leaders wanted to reap the big prize of steering Ukraine toward the West. But at the same time, they didn’t want to own Ukraine’s problems: its terrible fiscal position, corruption and oligarch-infected political culture. That cuts to the heart of a deeper problem with Europe’s policies for bringing in new members since the late 1970s: the conflict between geopolitics and quality.
是的，欧洲领导人想要得到把乌克兰拉入西方的巨大回报。但与此同时，他们又不想去负担乌克兰的问题：该国糟糕的财政状况，腐败和寡头把持的政治文化。这就触及到了欧洲自上世纪70年代末以来招揽新成员时一直存在的深层次政策问题：地缘政治与质量的冲突。
From a geopolitical point of view, it makes perfect sense to bind Ukraine firmly to Europe, and maybe even offer membership eventually — just as it made perfect sense to take in formerly autocratic countries like Greece, Portugal and Spain in the 1980s in order to stabilize their young democracies. And it made equally good sense to take in large parts of Eastern Europe after 1989, and to pacify the countries of the former Yugoslavia by offering membership opportunities.
从地缘政治角度看，有很好的理由把乌克兰和欧洲牢牢捆在一起，甚至可能包括最终给予该国成员国资格——这样做的理由，跟上世纪80年代拉入原为独裁国家的希腊、葡萄牙和西班牙，以稳定其稚嫩的民主比起来，是一样充分的。同样有道理的是，在1989年后把东欧大部收归旗下，并用加入欧盟的机会来安抚前南斯拉夫国家。
But all of this comes at a price. While some new members, like Poland, Slovakia or the Baltic countries, became success stories, others have failed to rise to the standards of Western and Northern European countries. The fiscal crisis of Southern European basket cases like Greece and Portugal stems from a lack of good governance going back decades, while Bulgaria and Romania are ruled mainly by feuding camps of corrupt elites.
但这些都是有代价的。新加入的成员国有的结局圆满，比如波兰、斯洛伐克或者波罗的海国家，还有一些则没能达到西欧和北欧国家的水准。希腊和葡萄牙等南欧弱国的财政危机，是源自几十年来缺乏妥善治理的积重，而保加利亚和罗马尼亚则主要被长期不和的腐败权贵集团统治着。
Waves of new members over the last decades have lowered the average quality of governance in the European Union, even if some new members raised their game. But even that new, lower average is far better than what you find in Ukraine, which is why Ukrainians are protesting so forcefully against their leader’s about-face. They feel robbed of prospects for better institutions that respond to citizens, not corrupt elites.
过去几十年来新加入的成员国拉低了欧盟执政的平均质量，尽管有的新成员本身取得了进步。然而即便是这个被降低了的新平均值，也比乌克兰的情况好很多，这也是为什么乌克兰领导人的180度转变会引起人民如此激烈的反对。他们觉得被剥夺了希望，他们本可以拥有更好的、为民着想的制度，而不是为腐败权贵服务的制度。
This also explains why Europe remains noncommittal on final membership. It wants to bind the countries to its east without promising to take them into the European Union. So it has less to offer to places like Ukraine or Armenia, and less leverage to counter Russian pressure.
这也解释了为什么欧盟至今仍不愿在最终的会员国资格上给出承诺。它希望联合东面的国家，但又不需要保证把它们归入欧盟。这样一来它能给予乌克兰或亚美尼亚这种国家的好处就少了，反制俄罗斯施压的砝码也少了。
European governments realize that their publics are worried about the many problems those countries might bring into the union, particularly after the euro crisis hit Southern Europe. They have lost the appetite for taking in ever more institutionally and economically underdeveloped countries.
欧洲国家的政府意识到，它们的民众担心把那些国家并入欧盟会带来许多问题，尤其是在欧元危机重创南欧之后。他们已经没有那个胃口再接受在制度和经济上欠发达的国家。
Europe, in short, suffers from enlargement fatigue. That is why its message to Ukraine was, essentially, to reform now — even at the risk of an economic boycott by Russia — and reap the benefits of greater integration into the European economy later. And all without a clear offer of membership.
简单说，欧洲处在扩张疲劳中。所以它向乌克兰释放的信号实际上就是现在就改革——哪怕冒着遭到俄罗斯经济抵制的危险——更充分融入欧洲经济体的甜头放到以后再尝。而与此同时却不给出明确的入欧邀约。
Mr. Putin offered gain without pain, at least for now. The Russian president will play the next round just as cleverly as he played this one. If Europe does not come up with new ideas, it is likely to fail again.
普京开出的是坐地生财的价码，至少现在是这样。俄罗斯总统在下一轮的手段会跟在这一轮一样聪明。如果欧洲不拿出些新办法，看样子还是要输。
How about playing it tough with Moscow for a change? Europe should not heed Russia’s continuing request for free travel visas for Russian officials inside Europe. The European Commission should keep pushing antitrust measures against Russia’s energy giant Gazprom. And it should defend countries like Lithuania, Georgia, Ukraine or Moldova against trade sanctions, Mr. Putin’s preferred device for keeping former members of the Soviet Union in check. Moscow has to understand that its bullying comes at a price. And bullied nations should feel more confident that they can rely on Europe’s help. Only then will the calculus slowly change for countries like Ukraine and Armenia.
要不改变一下，用强硬手段对付莫斯科？俄罗斯仍在要求给予俄罗斯官员在欧洲内自由通行的签证，这方面欧洲应该不予理会。欧盟委员会(European Commission)应该继续推进针对俄罗斯能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)的反托拉斯措施。它应该帮助立陶宛、格鲁吉亚、乌克兰或摩尔多瓦等国抵御贸易制裁，那是普京在管教前苏联国家时喜用的手段。莫斯科必须得明白，横行霸道是要付出代价的。被恐吓的国家也应该对欧洲的帮助更有信心。只有这样，局面才会慢慢向有利于乌克兰和亚美尼亚这种国家的方向发展。