BRUSSELS — Under pressure to display resolve and common purpose following the downing of a Malaysia Airlines jet over eastern Ukraine, European Union foreign ministers on Tuesday discussed limited new sanctions against Russia. But their action fell short of stronger measures, like an arms embargo, that some member states had called for.
布鲁塞尔——周二，欧洲联盟(European Union)各国外长就对俄罗斯采取有限的新制裁措施一事进行了讨论。这样做是因为一架马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的航班在乌克兰东部坠落，欧盟面临着展示决心和立场的压力。但是，它们的行动并不包括武器禁运等比较强硬的措施，虽然有些欧盟国家希望能这样做。
From the beginning of the talks on Tuesday, and for weeks before, the ministers had been seen as unlikely to impose tough new measures immediately, for fear of jeopardizing an independent search of the crash site and possible Russian help in quelling rebellion in Ukraine.
从数周以前，直到周二的商讨开始时，人们普遍认为各国外长不太可能立即采取强硬的新举措，因为他们担心那样做会影响对坠机地点的独立搜寻，也消除俄罗斯压制乌克兰叛军的可能性。
The gathering also played out against divisions between countries like Britain and other nations, notably Germany, eager to preserve some channel of dialogue with Russia to protect economic interests and energy supplies.
此次会议也突显出英国与其他国家，尤其是德国的分歧。后者非常希望能与俄罗斯维持某种对话渠道，以保护本国的经济利益和能源供应。
“It is time to make our power, influence and resources felt,” Prime Minister David Cameron told the British Parliament on Monday, advocating tougher sanctions against parts of the Russian economy in response to the Kremlin’s support for the pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine who have been accused of bringing down the airliner.
“现在到了让我们的力量、影响力和资源发挥作用的时候，”英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)周一在英国议会表示。他支持对部分俄罗斯经济采取更严厉的制裁措施，以回应克里姆林宫对东乌克兰亲俄分裂分子的支持，人们指责击落飞机的就是后者。
“Russia cannot expect to continue enjoying access to European markets, European capital, European knowledge and technical expertise while she fuels conflict in one of Europe’s neighbors,” Mr. Cameron said.
卡梅伦说，“既然俄罗斯在助长一个欧洲邻国的矛盾，它就不能指望还能继续参与欧洲市场、享有欧洲的资本、知识和技术专长。”
At Tuesday’s meeting, the foreign ministers agreed to draw up a new and broader list of targets for sanctions, including Russian individuals and entities, said Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign affairs chief.
欧盟外交事务负责人凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)在周二的会议中说，外长们同意罗列一个范围更广的新制裁目标清单，其中将包括俄罗斯的个人和实体。
The ministers are examining proposals to restrict Russian “access to capital markets, defense, dual-use goods and sensitive technologies including in the energy sector,” Ms. Ashton said. The proposals would be drawn up by the European Commission, the bloc’s policy making body, and would be discussed on Thursday. But no new additional measures were imposed, reflecting fears among some Europeans that tougher sanctions would invite reprisals by Russia against countries dependent on its energy supplies, harming the Continent’s economic growth.
各国外长正在讨论限制俄罗斯“接触资本市场、国防领域、两用物资和能源领域中的敏感技术”的提议，阿什顿说。提案将由欧盟的政策制定机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)起草，并将于周四接受讨论。不过，他们并未采取其他新举措，这反映了一些欧盟成员国的担心——采取更严厉的制裁会促使俄罗斯对依赖其能源的国家采取报复，有损欧洲经济增长。
Meanwhile, President François Hollande of France said before the ministers’ meeting in Brussels that the first part of a contentious deal to sell two Mistral-class helicopter carrier ships to Russia would go ahead, in part to spare France the need to reimburse Russia for a canceled contract.
同时，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)表示，在各国外长在布鲁塞尔开会之前，法国向俄罗斯出售两艘“米斯特拉尔”级(Mistral-class)直升机航母的交易的第一阶段仍将继续。推进这项引发争议的交易，在某种程度上是为了让法国免于因为合同取消而对俄罗斯进行赔偿。
Britain and the United States had publicly opposed the deal. Mr. Cameron went so far as to say that a sale of that kind by his country’s muscular arms industry would be “unthinkable.” And the Obama administration made clear again on Tuesday that it wanted stronger support from Europe in imposing “costs” on President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia for the Kremlin’s support of the separatists in eastern Ukraine accused in the West of downing the airliner.
英国和美国曾公开反对这项交易。卡梅伦甚至表示，如果法国强大的武器行业进行这样的武器销售，那将是“无法想象的”。周二，奥巴马政府再次明确表示，美国希望得到欧洲的强烈支持，让俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)为支持乌克兰东部分裂分子的行为付出“代价”，西方认为航班是被这些分裂分子击落的。
“We should have had an arms embargo quite some time ago,” Carl Bildt, the Swedish foreign minister, told reporters before the meeting. “To deliver arms to Russia in this situation is somewhat difficult to defend, to put it mildly.”
“我们很久以前就应该实施武器禁运，”瑞典外交大臣卡尔·比尔特(Carl Bildt)在会议开始前告诉记者。“说得委婉点，在这种情况下向俄罗斯运送武器，有点站不住脚。”
On Monday evening, Mr. Hollande pre-empted the argument, saying that the first of the two warships covered by the agreement with Russia was almost built and would be delivered as planned in October.
周一晚间，奥朗德先发制人，称俄法协议涉及两艘军舰，第一艘几乎已经建好，将按照计划在10月份交货。
“For the time being, a level of sanctions has not been decided that would prevent this delivery,” Mr. Hollande said. “The Russians have paid,” he said, and cancellation of the deal would oblige France to reimburse Russia to the tune of 1.1 billion euros, or $1.5 billion.
奥朗德说，“目前的制裁水平还不会阻止军舰交付。”奥朗德表示，“俄罗斯已经付钱了，”取消交易将迫使法国向俄罗斯支付多达11亿欧元（约合92亿元人民币）的赔偿金。