BRUSSELS — The European Union is set to extend by six months economic sanctions against Russia, calming fears that Greece’s acrimonious negotiations over its debt crisis might allow Russia to break the unity of the 28-nation bloc in its response to the conflict in Ukraine.
布鲁塞尔——欧盟计划将针对俄罗斯的经济制裁延长6个月，声称此举是因为担心希腊艰难的债务危机谈判会让俄罗斯有机可乘，破坏欧盟28个成员国在应对乌克兰冲突问题上的团结一致。
A decision to prolong the sanctions, which expire at the end of July, was made by European ambassadors in Brussels on Wednesday and is expected to be ratified at a meeting of foreign ministers early next week in Luxembourg, diplomats in Brussels said.
欧盟驻布鲁塞尔的外交官表示，延长原先至7月底结束的制裁的决定是由欧盟国家驻布鲁塞尔的大使们在本周三做出的，该决议预计将于下周早些时候在卢森堡举行的欧盟外交部长会议上通过。
Moscow lobbied hard against a renewal of the sanctions, imposed last year in tandem with similar measures by the United States after Russia annexed Crimea in March and then provided support to separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine. Decisions on sanctions require unanimity, so Russia needed to win over only one European Union country to block an extension. But it failed in efforts to secure a blocking vote from any of the countries that have shown little enthusiasm for sanctions. These include Greece, Cyprus and Hungary, all of which Moscow has actively courted.
莫斯科极力游说，反对延长制裁。去年三月，俄罗斯吞并克里米亚半岛，并向乌克兰东部的分裂势力提供支持，欧盟对俄罗斯实行了经济制裁，美国也采取了类似措施。欧盟有关制裁的决策需要取得全体成员国的同意，所以俄罗斯只要争取到一个欧盟国家就可以阻止制裁的延长。但在此前，俄罗斯没能争取到任何一个对制裁并不热心的国家为其投反对票。这些国家包括希腊、塞浦路斯、匈牙利，它们都被俄罗斯积极争取过。
Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, a Polish member of the European Parliament and vice chairman for foreign affairs of the assembly’s largest political grouping, said he had worried that Greece’s left-wing prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, might use his country’s veto power to try to secure bailout money from Russia if deadlocked talks with Western creditors yielded no new funds.
欧盟议会的波兰议员、该议会最大政治联盟的外事委员会副主席亚采克·萨尤兹·沃尔斯基(Jacek Saryusz-Wolski)表示，他担心如果希腊和西方债权人陷入僵局的谈判不能出现转机，导致该国无法获得新的援助资金，其左派领导人、总理亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)可能会利用希腊的否决权从俄罗斯换取救援资金。
“My fear was that he intended to auction his veto in both Brussels and Moscow,” Mr. Saryusz-Wolski said. In the end, he added, “Moscow was not able to put a sufficiently big envelope on the table.”
“我担心他会在布鲁塞尔和莫斯科两头拍卖手上的否决权，”萨尤兹·沃尔斯基说。最后，他补充道，“之前莫斯科给出的价格不够高。”
Mr. Tsipras, who visited Moscow in April for talks with President Vladimir V. Putin, is scheduled to make another trip to Russia on Thursday, as finance ministers from the 19 countries that use the euro meet in Luxembourg to discuss Greece’s debt crisis. Unless Greece gets money from somewhere in the next two weeks, it is expected to default on loans from the International Monetary Fund due at the end of the month.
齐普拉斯曾在去年四月访问俄罗斯，并和弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统举行了会谈，按计划他将于本周四再次访问俄罗斯。与此同时，使用欧元的19个欧盟成员国的财政部长将会在卢森堡一起讨论希腊的债务危机问题。除非希腊在接下来的两周内从别处获得援助资金，外界预计它将无法向国际货币基金组织偿付本月底到期的债务。
Mr. Saryusz-Wolski cautioned that the decision to extend sanctions was preliminary and could still be reversed or delayed when European Union foreign ministers meet next week. Diplomats in Brussels, however, said they were confident the agreement struck by ambassadors on Wednesday would hold.
萨尤兹·沃尔斯基警告说，延长制裁只是初步的决定，下周举行的欧盟成员国外交部长会议也有可能会否决或延迟决策。但驻布鲁塞尔的外交官们表示，他们相信大使们在周三达成的一致意见不会改变。
The United States lobbied against any letup in sanctions, securing agreement from the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and other leaders at a Group of 7 summit meeting last week that they should remain in place until Russia helps to fully put in place a shaky peace plan for eastern Ukraine agreed in Minsk, Belarus, in February.
美国曾游说欧盟，反对任何减弱制裁的做法，并在上周的七国集团首脑会议期间，从德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和其他领导人那里，获得了维持制裁的保证，直到俄罗斯协助将今年2月在白俄罗斯明斯克达成的、并不牢固的东乌克兰和平计划全部付诸实施为止。
The Minsk deal committed both pro-Russian rebels and Ukrainian government forces to a cease-fire and the withdrawal of heavy weapons. Fighting has continued nonetheless, with recent weeks seeing a particularly serious flare-up in hostilities.
明斯克协议要求亲俄罗斯的反叛者和乌克兰政府军双方停火，撤走重型武器。然而，战事一直没有停下来，最近几周还出现了敌对行动特别严重的爆发。
“If the European Union had not managed to maintain sanctions after all this, it would have seriously damaged its credibility,” said Amanda Paul of the European Policy Center, a Brussels research institute. She predicted that Russia would keep up pressure in eastern Ukraine and on the European Union by trying to woo countries like Greece into blocking sanctions in the future.
“如果在发生了这一切之后，欧盟没能设法维持制裁，那将会严重损坏欧盟的信誉，”布鲁塞尔研究机构欧洲政策中心(European Policy Center)的阿曼达·保罗(Amanda Paul)说。她曾预言，俄罗斯会用试图拉拢希腊等国的做法，来阻止未来的制裁，以在乌克兰东部、以及对欧盟保持压力。
While working to reverse Western sanctions amid a slump in its economic growth, Russia has all along insisted that the measures would have little impact on an economy also hit by a fall in world oil and gas prices, and that they would not sway Kremlin policy. On Wednesday, Russia’s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, was quoted by Russian news media as saying that Moscow had already taken an extension of the measures into account in its economic planning, Reuters reported.
尽管俄罗斯面临经济增长低迷的现状，并在努力扭转西方的制裁，但却一直坚持认为，制裁措施对其经济影响不大，其经济也受到全球石油和天然气价格下跌的影响。俄罗斯还表示，制裁不会让克里姆林宫的改变政策。据路透社报道，周三，俄罗斯新闻媒体引用俄罗斯财政部长安东·西卢安诺夫(Anton Siluanov)的话说，莫斯科在其经济计划中已经考虑了制裁措施的延长。
Some European nations, notably the Baltic States and Poland, pushed for tougher sanctions against Russia but settled for a simple extension of existing restrictions on access to capital by Russian banks and selected companies involved in energy and defense. Europe and the United States have also imposed an asset freeze and travel ban on targeted individuals in Russia and Crimea.
一些欧洲国家、特别是波罗的海国家和波兰，曾提出要对俄罗斯采取更严厉的制裁，但他们接受了延长现有制裁的做法，现有的制裁限制俄罗斯银行、以及几家涉及能源和国防的公司对资金的获得。欧洲和美国还针对俄罗斯和克里米亚的一些个人采取了冻结资产和禁止入境的制裁。
Group of 7 leaders said last week in Germany that sanctions against Russia would be strengthened if violence in Ukraine escalated.
七国集团领导人上周在德国表示，如果乌克兰的暴力升级的话，将会对俄罗斯采取更强的制裁措施。
Mr. Saryusz-Wolski, a former Polish minister, said the European Union’s proposal “to extend but not increase sanctions was a gesture to those who objected or were lukewarm.” Opponents of sanctions, he added, “calculated that the price of obstruction would be too high for them.”
波兰前部长萨尤兹·沃尔斯基说，欧盟提出“延长但不增加制裁，是向那些反对制裁者、或对制裁不热心者表示的一种姿态。”他补充说，反对制裁者的“算计是，阻碍制裁对他们来说代价太高了。”
European leaders agreed in March that the sanctions would not be lifted until the Minsk accords are put into effect. But this unity looked shaky as Greece’s new left-wing government clashed angrily with Brussels over resolving its financial crisis and Mr. Tsipras, before his April trip to Moscow, strongly criticized the sanctions, calling for an end to chilly relations with Russia.
欧洲领导人曾在今年3月达成一致意见，不会解除制裁，直到明斯克协定付诸实施为止。但是，由于希腊的新左翼政府在债务危机问题上愤怒地与布鲁塞尔对着干，欧盟的团结看起来有点摇摇欲坠，齐普拉斯在4月份去莫斯科访问之前曾强烈抨击制裁，呼吁结束与俄罗斯的冷淡关系。
With increasingly testy negotiations over Greece now stalled and the country facing a real risk of default, Athens appears to have decided against picking another fight with the European Union over Russia.
随着就希腊债务问题展开的激烈谈判进入僵局，希腊面临着违约的实际风险，雅典方面似乎已决定不在俄罗斯问题上与欧盟再干一场。