KIEV, Ukraine — The European Union on Sunday broke off talks with Ukraine on the far-reaching trade deal that protesters here have been demanding for weeks, and a top official issued a stinging, angry statement all but accusing Ukraine’s president of dissembling during the negotiations.
乌克兰基辅——上周日，欧盟和乌克兰就一项具有深远意义的贸易协议举行的谈判宣告破裂，聚集在乌克兰基辅的抗议者数周以来一直要求签署这项协议。欧盟一位高级官员态度激烈、措辞愤怒地发表声明，几乎是在指责乌克兰总统对谈判毫无诚意。
The bloc’s enlargement chief, Stefan Füle, wrote on Twitter that the words and deeds of the president, Viktor F. Yanukovich, were growing “further and further apart,” even as the Ukrainian crisis was showing signs of deepening. On Sunday, hundreds of thousands of protesters clogged a main plaza and surrounding streets in Kiev, the capital, rivaling earlier weekend rallies in size.
欧盟负责扩大事务的欧委会委员史蒂芬·傅勒(Stefan Füle)在Twitter上写道，即使乌克兰危机正在呈现严重化的迹象，乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)的言行仍越发不一。周日，数十万抗议者挤满了乌克兰首都基辅的一座主要广场和周围的街道，规模不逊于之前的几次周末集会。
The statement by Mr. Füle sent a pointed message to the crowd that Ukraine’s government might well have to change before the European Union agreement could be revived.
傅勒的声明向人群发出了直白的讯息：要想重启关于欧盟协议的谈判，乌克兰政府很可能必须作出改变。
Mr. Füle said that further discussions on the trade agreement would hinge on receiving clear signals from Ukraine’s government, but that he had received no response. “Work on hold,” he wrote in a subsequent Twitter post, saying he had told a Ukrainian deputy prime minister, Sergei Arbuzov, that the government had to show a “clear commitment to sign.”
傅勒表示，针对这项贸易协议的进一步讨论能否继续下去，取决于乌克兰政府是否会发出明确的信号，但他没有得到任何回应。“工作暂停了”，他在随后的一条Twitter消息中写道，自己已经告诉乌克兰副总理谢尔盖·阿尔布佐夫(Sergei Arbuzov)，政府必须对签署这份协议表现出“明确的诚意”。
Officials in Brussels, the headquarters of the European Union’s executive arm, the European Commission, confirmed the decision to suspend the talks with Ukraine.
在布鲁塞尔，欧盟执行机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)的总部，官员证实了中止与乌克兰会谈的决定。
After years of negotiations with Brussels, Mr. Yanukovich was to sign the European Union association agreement late last month, but then he announced that he would not because austerity measures demanded in a related International Monetary Fund loan were too stringent and because Russia had threatened trade sanctions.
在跟布鲁塞尔进行了多年谈判之后，亚努科维奇预定于上月下旬签署这份欧盟联合协议，但随后他却宣布不会签署这项协议，因为与之相关的一项国际货币基金组织(IMF)贷款要求乌克兰采取过于严苛的财政紧缩措施，也因为俄罗斯扬言要对乌克兰进行贸易制裁。
His government began talks on rival trade and economic deals with Russia, even as Mr. Yanukovich insisted that he intended eventually to sign the European Union deal.
尽管亚努科维奇坚称自己最终打算签署与欧盟的协议，但是他的政府已经开始与俄罗斯就一些具有竞争性质的经贸协议进行谈判。
Perplexed, high-level Western diplomats traveled to Kiev last week. Mr. Yanukovich told the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, and an assistant secretary of state from the United States, Victoria Nuland, that he intended to sign the European trade deal, and would not join the rival Russian-backed customs union.
上周，迷惑不解的西方高级外交官前往基辅。亚努科维奇告诉欧盟外交政策负责人凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)，以及美国助理国务卿维多利亚·纽兰(Victoria Nuland)，他打算签署欧盟的贸易协议，不打算加入俄罗斯主导的与之竞争的关税同盟。
Ms. Ashton, after returning from her mission to Ukraine, said in Brussels on Thursday that “Yanukovich made it clear to me that he intends to sign the association agreement.”
阿什顿从乌克兰返回后，周四在布鲁塞尔表示，“亚努科维奇清楚地告诉我，他打算签署欧盟的联合协议。”
By Friday, though, the Ukrainian government had again issued orders to ministers to plan to reconcile Ukrainian customs and trade legislation with the Russian-led customs union, not the European Union, the newspaper Ukrainskaya Pravda reported. That added to a sense of drift in the government all the more ominous for the large, sustained protests in the capital.
但是到了周五，乌克兰政府再次向部长们下达命令，准备调整乌克兰海关和贸易的立法，使之与俄罗斯主导的关税同盟相协调，而不是欧盟联合协议保持协调，《乌克兰真理报》(Ukrainskaya Pravda)报道。这加重了政府转变方向的感觉，恐怕会进一步加剧基辅街头持续不断的大型示威。
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, both members of the Foreign Relations Committee, appeared onstage at Independence Square and expressed American solidarity with the protesters’ goals.
亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和康涅狄格州民主​​党参议员克里斯托弗·S·墨菲(Christopher S. Murphy)都是外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)成员，他们也现身独立广场，表达了美国对示威者诉求的声援。
“We are here to support your just cause: the sovereign right of Ukrainians to determine your own destiny,” said Mr. McCain, a former Republican presidential nominee, to much applause. He added: “The destiny you seek lies in Europe. Ukraine will make Europe better, and Europe will make Ukraine better.”
“我们来这里，是为了支持你们的正义事业，也就是乌克兰人决定自身命运的主权权利，”前共和党总统候选人麦凯恩的说法赢得了大量的掌声。他接着说：“你们争取的命运系于欧洲。乌克兰会让欧洲变得更好，欧洲也会让乌克兰变得更好。”
At a news conference later, Mr. McCain and Mr. Murphy said the Senate would consider imposing sanctions against the Ukrainian government should there be any further violence against protesters. Mr. Murphy said he had accompanied Mr. McCain here to show that there was bipartisan support for the Ukrainian demonstrators, and he said he was impressed by the peaceful nature of the rally.
在之后的一场新闻发布会上，麦凯恩和墨菲表示，如果乌克兰政府进一步使用暴力来对付示威者，美国参议院就会考虑对乌克兰政府实施制裁。墨菲说，他陪同麦凯恩前来这里，是为了表示民主党和共和党都支持乌克兰的示威者，他说这次集会的和平性质给他留下了深刻印象。
While Mr. McCain chastised Russia for its role in derailing Ukraine’s plans to sign the trade and political accords with Europe, describing it as interference in Ukraine’s sovereign affairs, he said he saw no contradiction in standing onstage before a crowd that had called for the ouster of Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and his government. He called it “my duty to speak out” on behalf of the Ukrainian people and human rights.
麦凯恩斥责俄罗斯破坏乌克兰与欧洲签署贸易和政治协议的做法，称此举是在干涉乌克兰的主权内政。但他又说自己站在台上，面对着呼吁乌克兰总理米克拉·阿扎罗夫(Mykola Azarov)及其政府下台的人群，与对俄罗斯的斥责不存在任何矛盾。他说为了乌克兰人民和人权“站出来说话，是我的责任”。
After the senators met with Mr. Yanukovich on Sunday, his office posted a statement saying he had “once again stressed the immutability of European integration by Ukraine.”
亚努科维奇周日会见两位参议员之后，他的办公室发表声明说，他“再次强调了欧洲一体化是乌克兰的不变追求”。
The statement also said Mr. Yanukovich had assured Mr. McCain and Mr. Murphy “that the government will do everything possible to ensure the right to peaceful demonstrations.”
这份声明还表示，亚努科维奇向麦凯恩和墨菲保证，“政府将尽一切可能，确保和平示威的权利。”
Mr. Yanukovich planned to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Tuesday. The two leaders have been in talks regarding economic aid, but many in the opposition are fearful that Mr. Yanukovich is prepared to make a deal that would commit Ukraine to joining the customs union that Russia has created with Kazakhstan and Belarus.
亚努科维奇计划周二与俄罗斯总统普京会晤。两位领导人一直在进行经济援助方面的会谈。但很多反对派人士担心，亚努科维奇准备签署一项协议，承诺乌克兰将加入俄罗斯与哈萨克斯坦、白俄罗斯建立的关税同盟。