BRUSSELS — European Union ministers approved a plan Tuesday that would compel member countries to take in 120,000 migrants seeking refuge on the Continent — but only after overruling four countries in Central Europe.
布鲁塞尔——欧盟成员国的相关部长周二批准了一项方案，要求成员国接纳12万名来到欧洲寻求避难的移民。此前，他们驳回了中欧四国的异议。
The plan to apportion the migrants, still only a small fraction of those flowing into Europe, was approved by home affairs and interior ministers of the member countries after a vigorous debate.
这份分配移民的方案，在各成员国内务和内政部长经过激烈辩论之后，才得以通过。方案涉及的人数，只是目前涌入欧洲的总人数的一小部分。
In a departure from normal procedures that emphasize consensus, particularly on questions of national sovereignty, the ministers took a formal vote. The Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia voted no. Finland abstained.
方案的表决背离了强调共识，尤其是在涉及国家主权的议题上强调共识的常规程序，转而让各国部长进行了正式投票。捷克、匈牙利、罗马尼亚、斯洛伐克反对，芬兰弃权。
The plan will be discussed further Wednesday by leaders from across the 28-member bloc, who will gather here for an emergency summit meeting. It is not clear if the dissenting countries, which have vigorously opposed mandatory quotas, will comply.
这份方案还会在周三由欧盟28个成员国的领导人进一步展开讨论，他们会前往布鲁塞尔举行紧急峰会。持异议的国家一直极力反对强制配额，尚不清楚这些国家是否会服从。
The crisis has tested the limits of Europe's ability to forge consensus on one of the most divisive issues to confront the union since the fall of communism. It has set right-wing politicians, including those who govern Hungary, against pan-European humanitarians, who have portrayed the crisis in stark moral terms.
当前这场危机是共产主义倒台以来，欧盟面对的分歧最为深重的问题之一，它考验了欧洲各国达成共识的能力有怎样的极限。面临危机，匈牙利的主政者等右翼政治人物与泛欧主义人道人士产生了冲突。后者在描述难民危机时，采用了严峻的道德措辞。
“We would have preferred to have adoption by consensus, but we did not manage to achieve that,” Jean Asselborn, the foreign minister of Luxembourg, said after the meeting. He urged the countries that had voted no to comply with the decision. “I have no doubt they will implement these decisions fully,” he said.
“我们本来更愿意通过共识来采取政策，但没有达成这个目的，”卢森堡外交大臣让·阿瑟伯恩(Jean Asselborn)在会后表示。他对投票反对决定的国家发出了敦促。他说，“他们会全面履行决定，对此我毫不怀疑。”
But there were early signs of resistance to the plan. The Czech prime minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, said his government would “reject any attempt to introduce some permanent mechanism of redistributing refugees.”
但已经有早期的迹象显示，方案遇到了阻力。捷克外长博胡斯拉夫·索博特卡(Bohuslav Sobotka)表示，该国政府会“驳回任何一种尝试引入某种分配难民的永久机制的做法”。
The idea behind the plan — backed by Germany and France, the dominant powers in Europe — is to relieve the pressure on front-line nations like Italy and Greece, which migrants from the Middle East, Afghanistan and Africa have been flooding.
这项方案受到了德国和法国的支持，这两个国家是欧洲的主导大国。方案的设想是减缓边境国家，如意大利和希腊的压力。一段时间以来，来自中东、阿富汗和非洲的移民不断涌向那里。