LONDON — China moved closer to sealing its biggest foreign deal to date and bolstering its efforts to feed its population on Wednesday after the European Union approved China National Chemical Corporation’s $43 billion takeover of Syngenta, the Swiss farm chemicals and seeds company.
伦敦——欧盟于周二批准中国化工集团公司（简称中国化工）以430亿美元收购瑞士农化及种子公司先正达(Syngenta)之后，中国愈发靠近了自己的目标：达成其迄今为止最大的一项海外交易，并巩固其保障本国食品供应的努力。
The approval came with the condition that the state-owned company, also known as ChemChina, must sell its European pesticide and plant growth regulator businesses.
欧盟批准此次收购的条件是，作为国有企业的中国化工必须出售其在欧洲的农药和植物生长调节剂业务。
The clearance came a day after the deal also got the go-ahead from the United States Federal Trade Commission.
该交易在得到欧盟批准的前一天，也得到了美国联邦贸易委员会(United States Federal Trade Commission)的批准。
“It is important for European farmers and ultimately consumers that there will be effective competition in pesticide markets, also after ChemChina’s acquisition of Syngenta,” Margrethe Vestager, the European Union commissioner in charge of competition policy, said in a statement.
“对欧洲农民乃至消费者来说，很重要的一点是，在中国化工收购先正达之后，农药市场依然可以维持有效竞争，”欧盟竞争事务专员玛格丽特·韦斯塔格尔(Margrethe Vestager)在一份声明中表示。
“ChemChina has offered significant remedies, which fully address our competition concerns.”
“中国化工提供了重要的解决方案，完全化解了我们对竞争问题的担忧。”
ChemChina will have to sell its subsidiary in Israel, Adama, which is the world’s biggest producer of generic pesticides. The F.T.C.’s approval was also conditional on ChemChina’s selling parts of Adama’s business in the United States to an agrochemical company based in California.
中国化工将不得不出售它在以色列的子公司——全球最大的仿制农药生产商Adama。美国联邦贸易委员会对交易的批准也以中国化工把Adama在美国的部分业务出售给加利福尼亚的一家农化公司为条件。
China has struggled to maintain and control its food supply in recent years. It hopes to better feed its growing and increasingly affluent population.
近年来，中国在维系和管控本国食品供应方面一直困难重重。它希望更好地满足本国日益增多且日渐富裕的人口对食品的需求。
They are also nervous about genetically modified food, even as China wants to use the science to ramp up production.
就在中国想要借助科学促进生产之际，转基因食品也让民众感到焦虑。
The ChemChina deal could bolster China’s efforts to become a major player in the field of genetically modified food, and it has poured money into developing its homegrown industry.
中国正试图成为转基因食品领域的一个主要参与者，中国化工的这项交易会让相关努力得到加强。它还投入了大量资金，推动本土产业发展。
If the Syngenta acquisition closes, it would suggest that China still has the scope and willingness to strike big deals for major global names.
收购先正达的交易若能达成，便意味着中国仍然有余力和意愿去达成以全球知名的大公司为标的的大手笔交易。
In recent years, the country has been on an acquisition spree, buying up major strategic assets like copper mines and oil deposits as well as investing in flashier, if less economically or geopolitically important, deals for marquee names like the Waldorf Astoria hotel in Manhattan.
中国近年来掀起了收购狂潮，除了买下铜矿、油田等战略资产，还达成了一些虽然不那么具有经济或地缘政治重要性，但更为引人瞩目的交易，投资于多个大名鼎鼎的标的，譬如曼哈顿的华尔道夫-阿斯特里亚(Waldorf Astoria)酒店。