BRUSSELS — Shaken by Britain’s vote to quit the European Union, the bloc’s leaders met on Tuesday in Brussels and sent a blunt message to Britain and others tempted to follow its example: Bolting will carry a heavy price.
布鲁塞尔——欧盟领导人对英国退欧公投的结果感到震惊，本周二他们在布鲁塞尔召开会议，向英国和其他试图步其后尘的国家传递出了直白的讯息：离开将要承担沉重的代价。
The leaders of what, for the moment, is still a bloc of 28 countries all agree that the EU needs an overhaul. The two-day summit meeting that started Tuesday with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain in attendance for perhaps the last time began the long and divisive effort to rebuild the cornerstone of Europe’s peace and relative prosperity for more than 60 years.
欧盟目前仍有28个成员，这些国家的领导人一致同意欧盟需要进行重大变革。周二开始的峰会为期两天，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)也许是最后一次参加这种会议。欧洲60多年来一直保持和平，处于相对繁荣之中。这次峰会开启了一项长期而又充满争议的努力，希望能重建和平与繁荣的基石。
Europe’s leaders also face the more immediate task of handling the tensions building over Britain’s desire to seek a divorce while stalling on a formal application.
欧盟领导人还面临着一项更加紧迫的任务：英国希望实现脱欧，同时又在搁置正式的申请，由此引发的紧张局势愈演愈烈，需要加以应对。
They want the process to go as smoothly and as quickly as possible and to contain the economic damage, but not so painlessly for Britain as to encourage populist movements in other wavering nations to push for destabilizing referendums of their own.
他们希望脱欧的过程尽可能顺利而迅速，以防经济损失扩大，但同时也要让英国承受痛苦，避免其他摇摆地区的民粹主义运动推动本国的脱欧公投，从而造成动荡。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany tried to thread that needle in a speech to the German Parliament Tuesday before leaving for Brussels, warning that Britain would suffer as a result of its “Brexit” vote and could not expect to enjoy the privileges of membership, like access to Europe’s single market, while sloughing off its burdens.
周二当天，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)动身去布鲁塞尔之前，在本国议会发表演讲，警告脱欧的公投结果会让英国自作自受，不要指望在甩掉包袱的同时还能享有成员国特权，比如进入欧洲单一市场。
The shock vote last week in Britain has done more than embolden populist forces that denounce the EU as a distant and meddling force that mainly serves elites. It has also brought to the surface deep pools of bitterness and anger left by earlier crises, notably a grinding economic slowdown and an uncontrolled influx of migrants across Europe’s open borders.
民粹主义者谴责欧盟是一股主要为权贵阶层服务的势力，高高在上，指手画脚。上周在英国进行的公投，其结果令人口瞪口呆。它不只鼓励了民粹主义者，也让之前危机埋下的深层痛苦和愤怒爆发出来，特别是令人煎熬的经济放缓，以及整个欧洲开放边界导致移民源源不断涌入的现象。
Instead of dealing with just the crisis of confidence set off by the vote for Brexit, as Britain’s exit from the European bloc is called, leaders are effectively confronting all the crises of recent years at one time. Still unresolved are arguments over austerity, the German-led prescription for a financial crisis that began in Greece in 2008, and whether the EU should be merely a free-trade zone or the locomotive of a more ambitious program of “ever closer union,” a cause enshrined in the 1957 Treaty of Rome.
欧盟成员国领导人要应对的不仅是英国脱欧公投导致的信任危机，他们实际上还同时面临着近年来的所有危机。不少争论悬而未决：德国牵头给2008年始于希腊的金融危机开出了紧缩的处方，引发了辩论；另外，欧盟是否应该仅仅是一个自由贸易区，还是应该带头推进“日益紧密的联盟”这一更加雄心勃勃的计划。“日益紧密的联盟”是1957年《罗马条约》(Treaty of Rome)中郑重规定的条款。