WASHINGTON — President Obama announced expanded sanctions against Russia on Tuesday, just hours after the European Union imposed its most sweeping measures yet penalizing Moscow for its role in supporting separatists in neighboring Ukraine.
华盛顿——周二，奥巴马总统宣布扩大对俄罗斯的制裁。仅数小时以前，欧盟刚刚为了惩罚俄罗斯支持邻国乌克兰的分裂分子而对其施加了迄今为止范围最广的制裁措施。
The latest American actions took aim at more Russian banks and a large defense firm, but they also went further than past moves by blocking future technology sales to Russia’s lucrative oil industry in an effort to inhibit its ability to develop future resources. The measures were meant to largely match those unveiled earlier in the day in Europe.
美国的这些最新举措不仅针对了更多的俄罗斯银行和一家大型防务企业，还比过去更进一步：为了遏制俄罗斯利润丰厚的石油业开发未来资源的能力，将禁止未来向该行业出售技术。这些举措是为了大致匹配欧洲当天早些时候发布的制裁措施。
“Today is a reminder that the United States means what it says and we will rally the international community in standing up for the rights and freedom of people around the world,” Mr. Obama said on the South Lawn of the White House.
奥巴马在白宫南草坪上说，“今天提醒大家，美国言出必行。我们会团结国际社会，支持世界各地的民众争取权利和自由。”
Mr. Obama said the government of President Vladimir V. Putin had gone beyond past support for pro-Russian separatists fighting the central Ukrainian government in Kiev and was now directly participating in the civil war by firing artillery across the border, transporting more military equipment to the rebels and massing its own troops.
奥巴马表示，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)领导的政府已不仅限于为对抗基辅的乌克兰中央政府的亲俄分裂分子提供支持，目前还在直接参与该国内战。他们向边境另一边发射炮火，为反对派提供更多的军用设备，而且还在集结俄罗斯自身的军队。
“In other words, today Russia is once again isolating itself from the international community setting back decades of genuine progress,” he said. “And it doesn’t have to come to this. It didn’t have to come to this. It doesn’t have to be this way. This is a choice that Russia and President Putin in particular has made.”
“换而言之，如今俄罗斯再次把自己从国际社会孤立了出去，使数十年实实在在的进步发生了倒退，”他说。“它本不必落到如此田地。它过去不必，今天也不必。这是俄罗斯，尤其是普京总统，做出的选择。”
Still, in response to questions from reporters, Mr. Obama said “no, it’s not a new cold war” and made clear he was not considering providing arms to Ukraine’s government, as some Republicans have urged. “They are better armed than the separatists,” he said. “The issue is how do we prevent bloodshed in eastern Ukraine. We’re trying to avoid that. And the main tool that we have to influence Russian behavior at this point is the impact that it’s having on its economy.”
然而，在回答记者提问时，奥巴马仍旧坚持，“不，这不是一场新的冷战，”而且表明自己目前不考虑为乌克兰政府提供武器，尽管有些共和党人敦促他这么做。“他们的武器装备优于分裂分子，”他说。“问题是我们如何才能防止乌克兰东部的流血冲突。我们正试图避免这一点。目前我们可以用来影响俄罗斯行为的主要工具就是，利用制裁对其经济施加影响。
The carefully orchestrated actions on both sides of the Atlantic were designed to demonstrate solidarity in the face of what American and European officials say has been a stark escalation by Russia in the insurgency in eastern Ukraine. Until now, European leaders have resisted the broader sorts of actions they agreed to on Tuesday and their decision to do so reflected increasing alarm that Russia is not only helping separatists in Ukraine but directly involving itself in the fighting.
美国和欧洲官员认为，俄罗斯的行为极大地加剧了乌克兰东部反叛活动带来的紧张局势，而大西洋两岸精心策划的举动是为了表明美欧持一致立场。在此之前，欧盟领导人一直对更广泛的制裁措施持抵制态度，而他们最终于周二决定同意这么做也反映出，他们对俄罗斯不仅在帮助乌克兰分裂分子，而且还在直接参与战斗的行为愈加感到担心。
They are “meant as a strong warning,” said Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, in a statement on Tuesday that was joined by José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission. “Destabilizing Ukraine, or any other Eastern European neighboring state, will bring heavy costs,” the statement said.
欧洲理事会(European Council)主席赫尔曼·范龙佩(Herman Van Rompuy)和欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)在周二发表的联合声明中表示，这些举措“旨在提出强烈警告”。文中还称，“引起乌克兰或其他东欧邻国动荡的行为都必须付出惨重代价。”
The Obama administration’s sanctions were intended to largely, though not precisely, match the Europeans. In addition to the oil technology limits, the American decision adds three more banks to the list of those cut off from medium- and long-term capital financing, including VTB Bank, one of the largest in Russia.
奥巴马政府的制裁措施旨在匹配欧洲的制裁措施，即便不是完全一致，也大致相当。除了石油技术方面的限制，美国还决定在禁止中长期融资的名单上新增三家银行，其中包括俄罗斯最大的银行之一——俄罗斯外贸银行(VTB)。
The administration added United Shipbuilding Corp., a state-owned firm created by Mr. Putin in 2007, to its list of military companies banned from doing business with Americans. Although the United States did not impose an arms embargo as the European Union decided to do, American officials argued that the series of sanctions they have imposed over the last few months on defense firms comes close to achieving the same result.
奥巴马政府还把普京2007年创建的俄罗斯国有联合造船公司(United Shipbuilding Corp.)加入到了禁止与美国进行业务往来的军工企业的名单之中。虽然美国没有像欧盟那样决定实施武器禁运，但美国官员表示，过去几个月里对防务公司采取的一系列制裁措施几乎达到了同样的效果。
European governments moved ahead despite concerns that Europe would also pay an economic price for confronting the Kremlin more aggressively. The new sanctions, which are meant to hit significant parts of the Russian economy including its banks and its energy industry, could take effect as soon as Aug. 1, though the necessary legal formalities were likely to take longer to complete, officials said.
虽然以更强硬的态度对抗克里姆林宫可能会促使欧洲付出经济代价，但是欧洲各国政府仍然义无反顾。官员称，这些以打击俄罗斯经济重要组成部分——如银行和能源行业——为目标的新制裁措施最快将于8月1日生效，不过必要的法律手续很可能需要更长时间才能完成。
Full details of the new European sanctions were not expected to be published until later in the week, but the European Union issued a fact sheet Tuesday afternoon outlining the main points.
欧盟新制裁的全部细节预计本周晚些时候才会公布，但欧盟于周二下午发布了一份清单，概述了其中的要点。
Russia’s state-owned banks and development banks, which often raise money in Western financial markets, are a principal target. The sanctions bar European banks or individual investors from buying or trading in new bonds or securities issued by those banks with a maturity longer than 90 days.
常常在西方金融市场筹集资金的俄罗斯国有银行和开发银行是主要打击目标。欧盟的制裁禁止欧洲银行或个人投资者购入或交易这些银行发行的期限超过90天的新债券或证券。
The sanctions also impose an embargo on new sales of arms to Russia, or dual-use goods — those with both civilian and military uses — to Russian military buyers. Existing deals, like the French contract to supply Russia with warships, would not be affected, according to diplomats, who spoke on the condition of anonymity Tuesday because the agreement had not yet been formally announced.
欧盟的制裁还禁止向俄罗斯进行新的武器销售，以及向俄罗斯军方买家进行新的军民两用产品销售。外交官们周二表示，现有交易，如法国向俄罗斯出售战舰的合同，将不受影响。因为协议尚未正式宣布，这些外交官要求不具名。
Moreover, sales of certain kinds of technology for oil production and exploration in deep water, in shale deposits and in the Arctic would be barred. The sanctions do not affect equipment and technology for natural gas, a sensitive sector because several European nations depend heavily on gas supplies from Russia.
此外，针对深水、页岩矿床和北极的某些石油生产和勘探技术的销售也在被禁之列。制裁不会影响用于天然气的设备和技术。天然气是一个敏感领域，因为多个欧洲国家严重依赖俄罗斯的天然气供应。
The European Union also approved new sanctions against at least three close Putin associates, diplomats said. The individuals’ names were not immediately available.
外交官们称，欧盟还批准了针对普京至少三名亲信的新制裁措施。目前尚无法立即获知这些个人的姓名。
Secretary of State John Kerry said at a news conference earlier Tuesday in Washington that the West would continue to impose sanctions “if that is what we must do,” though he called once again for the separatists in Ukraine to agree to a cease-fire “now, not in the future” and reach a peace agreement that would make sanctions unnecessary. “If Russia continues to go down this path, however, Russia will leave the international community with no choice,” Mr. Kerry said.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周二早些时候在华盛顿的新闻发布会上表示，“如有必要”，西方将继续施加制裁。不过，他再次呼吁乌克兰的分裂分子“现在，而不是将来”同意停火，并达成和平协议，以便让制裁变得没有必要。“然而，如果俄罗斯继续在这条道路上走下去，它将让国际社会别无选择，”克里说。
Mr. Van Rompuy departed from the usual cautious language of European Union declarations, condemning Russia for actions that “cannot be accepted in 21st century Europe,” including “illegal annexation of territory” — a reference to Crimea — “and deliberate destabilization of a neighboring sovereign country.” He also cited “anger and frustration” over the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over rebel-held territory last week, “the delays in providing international access to the site of the air crash, the tampering with the remains of the plane, and the disrespectful handling of the deceased.”
范龙佩一改欧盟声明常用的谨慎措辞，谴责俄罗斯采取了“为21世纪的欧洲所不容”的行动，包括“非法吞并领土”——意指克里米亚——“并故意破坏相邻主权国家的稳定”。他还谈到了马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班上周在飞临反对派控制的地区时被击落的事件，称“多次推迟让国际社会进入坠机现场、破坏飞机残骸以及对逝者的无礼对待”令人“愤怒和失望”。
Though Europe’s commerce with Russia will probably slump because of the sanctions, the measures are expected to hit Russia more severely, especially the restrictions on Russian banks’ ability to raise money in Europe and the United States. “These sanctions can have quite a substantial chilling effect on the Russian economy,” said Adam Slater, a senior economist at Oxford Economics in London. “That is probably a quite effective way to put pressure on Russia.”
尽管欧洲与俄罗斯之间的商业活动可能会因制裁而滑坡，但这些措施有望更严重地打击俄罗斯，尤其是对俄罗斯银行在欧洲和美国集资能力的限制。“这些制裁会对俄罗斯经济产生相当大的负面影响，”伦敦牛津经济研究院(Oxford Economics)的高级经济学家亚当·斯莱特(Adam Slater)说。“这很可能是一个相当有效的向俄罗斯施压的方式。”