Joanna C. Lee waved her little red book for 2016 in the face of a man she had sent its predecessors, the little red books from 2015, 2014, 2013 and maybe even 2012. For a moment the man thought about 2015, a year bookended by the Charlie Hebdo attack in January and the San Bernardino assault in December, and said 2016 had to be a better year.
李正欣(Joanna C. Lee)在一名男子面前挥舞着她2016年的小红书。她给他送过2015、2014、2013年的版本，可能还有2012年的。这名男子回顾了一会儿2015年——在1月和12月分别发生了《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)和圣贝纳迪诺袭击事件。他说，2016年应该会好起来。
Not according to Ms. Lee’s book. Or, as she put it, “The prognosis is not great.”
李正欣的历书里却并不是这么写的。或者用她的话来说， “征兆不祥。”
Ms. Lee and her husband, Ken Smith, have published the Pocket Chinese Almanac each year since 2010, in English. They list themselves as translators and annotators because they consult a geomancer, a Hong Kong architect named Warwick Wong who learned to divine trends in climate and weather from his grandfather, who learned them from his ancestors. The publishers, who live on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, met him through the publisher of the Chinese-language almanac that inspired their 128-page reduction.
从2010年开始，李正欣和丈夫司马勤(Ken Smith)每年都会推出英文版的《珍黄历》(Pocket Chinese Almanac)。两人自称翻译和注解者，因为他们咨询了香港的一名风水师傅。对方名叫沃里克·黄(Warwick Wong)，是建筑师。他从祖父那里学会了预卜气候和天气趋势。他祖父又是从祖辈那里学会这些的。李正欣和司马勤生活在曼哈顿上西区，通过中文黄历的出版方结识了沃里克。受中文黄历的启发，他们制作了篇幅为128页的精简版英文黄历。
They do a lot of condensing. They have to. Each page in their version is only 4 1/8 inches by 2 1/2 inches, less than a quarter of the size of a page in the Chinese publisher’s original version.
他们进行了大量的压缩。这是不得已之举。他们的黄历每页只有4又1/8英寸（约合10.5厘米）长，2又1/2英寸宽，大小不及中文原版的四分之一。
“You can tell what kind of a year it’s going to be from the cow,” Mr. Smith said, opening his well-thumbed copy of the Chinese original to an illustration. “It might be that the man behind the cow is not wearing shoes. If the man isn’t wearing sandals, it’s going to be a very wet year. Bad flooding. And if it’s a bad year in terms of atmospheric conditions, it’s a bad year in human relations.”
“可以通过这头牛看出来年的年景，”司马勤一边说着一边打开他那本已经翻旧了的中文原版黄历，翻到了有一幅插图的页面。“可能是因为牛背后那个人没有穿鞋。如果他没穿凉鞋，来年就会非常湿润。会发严重的洪灾。要是从气候条件来说年景不好，人际关系也不会好。”
The illustration was a “preliterate visual agrarian thing,” he said — a way of getting the message across to farmers who paid close attention to how the figures changed in relation to each other from year to year. For the Lunar New Year that begins on Feb. 8, the man and the cow are the same size and on the same plane — a hopeful sign, Ms. Lee said. The man is not leading the cow, which would be better. But neither is the cow leading him.
他说，这种图是“文字出现以前的一种形象的农耕助手”，能让资讯在农民之间传播。他们会密切关注这些人物在各年之间的变化。李正欣说，今年的农历新年从2月8日开始，那名男子和牛大小相同，并且处于同一个平面，这是个好兆头。男子并没有牵着牛，那样的话会更吉祥。但牛也没在他前面。
Ms. Lee said she had checked with Mr. Wong for additional guidance about 2016 after this year’s almanacs arrived from the printer in Hong Kong. “The big thing, it is a year of climates that are very unpredictable,” she said, waving an email printout written in Chinese. “He said: ‘There would be cases of extremes. There would be floods. There would be places of extreme drought.’ If you ask me, I completely, 100 percent buy global warming. This is the sun and the moon and the stars aligning and telling us we’re not doing well.”
李正欣说，收到香港印刷厂寄来的2016年黄历后，她还向沃里克请教过。“一个重要的方面是，今年的气候非常难以预测，”她挥舞着一份打印出来的中文电子邮件说。“他写的是，‘会出现极端情况。会发生洪灾。有的地方会极度干旱。’如果问我，我肯定百分之百地相信全球变暖。日月星辰的排列告诉我们形势不妙。”
There was more in the email. “He said there would be incidents that make people cry, incidents that make people laugh and incidents where you don’t know whether to laugh or cry,” she said. “Locusts? Donald Trump?”
邮件里还有其他内容。“他说会发生让人笑、让人哭以及让人哭笑不得的事情，”李正欣说。“蝗灾？唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)？”
Ms. Lee said 2016 was considered an unlucky year because, on the Chinese calendar, it begins after the start of spring. Also, she said, Mr. Wong warned of “problems” in the United States and Canada, though he provided no details. “He said be careful of illnesses, watch what you eat, watch your digestive system and your skin,” she said.
李正欣表示，2016之所以被认为是不祥之年，是因为根据中华历法，立春之后才过年。她说，沃里克发出警告，称美国和加拿大会出现“问题”，但他并未给出细节。“他说要小心疾病，留意吃的东西，关注消化系统和皮肤，”她说。
She said this would be a bad year for companies that depend on natural resources, meaning the energy industry — but with Brent crude, one of the oil industry’s benchmarks, off more than 30 percent in 2015, that had a more-of-the-same ring. She also said that the advertising, cosmetics and service industries would “become a little watery” — a rough year.
李正欣表示，对依赖自然资源的公司——也就是能源行业——来说，2016年的日子不好过。但鉴于作为石油业基准之一的布伦特原油的价格已在2015年下跌逾30%，这不过是情况的延续。她还表示广告、化妆品和服务业会迎来艰难的一年，“变得有点惨淡”。
To leaf through the Pocket Chinese Almanac is to read a quaint-sounding daily diary — in advance, of course, because like many almanacs, the Pocket Chinese Almanac is about predictions. The style comes from its faithfulness to the original Chinese and, in turn, the original’s faithfulness to the agrarian society to which much of China no longer belongs.
翻查《珍黄历》就是在阅读一本古色古香的日记。当然是提前阅读，因为和很多历书一样，《珍黄历》用于预测。其风格忠于中文原版，而原版又忠于农耕社会。但在现如今的中国，很多地方不再属于农耕社会。
For each day of the year, there is an entry with two headings: “good” and “bad.” Some days are good for rituals, weddings, breaking ground or other pursuits like “building stoves,” “raising pillars and beams,” “placing doors,” “digging ditches” or “the maiden voyage of a boat.” Some days are bad for those things. Monday, for example, will be good for “hairdressing,” “cleaning house” and “pest control,” among other things.
一年里的每一天都有“宜”和“忌”两个条目。有些日子宜祭祀、嫁娶、动土或“起窑”、“立柱上梁”、“安门”、“开渠”、“新船下水”等活动，另外一些日子则不适合做这些事情。比如，周一宜“理发”、“扫舍”和“捕捉”等。
Each entry is an excursion into metaphor, for the time-honored terms in the almanac are not to be taken literally. For “pest control,” Ms. Lee and Mr. Smith wrote in a section headed “Notes for the Modern Reader,” “pests today far exceed insects and rodents.” Or, as Mr. Smith explained over lunch on the Upper West Side, “‘Pest control’ is about firing people, and ‘buying livestock’ is ‘I got a new cat.’”
每一个条目都有喻意，因为流传久远的黄历用语不应从字面上理解。比如“捕捉”，李正欣和司马勤在名为“现代读者阅读提示”的章节中写道，“如今害虫远远超出了虫鼠的范畴”。换言之，就像司马勤在上西区吃午饭时解释的那样，“现在的‘捕捉’是指解雇员工，‘纳畜’则是‘我新养了一只猫。’”
“Breaking ground” applies to starting a project, even one that does not involve shovels and hard hats, and “going out” can be used as an excuse to go shopping. And then there is “beginning a long journey.” “With modern air travel,” Ms. Lee and Mr. Smith wrote, “what determines ‘a long journey’ is in the mind of the traveler.”
“动土”适用于项目启动，即使不涉及铁铲和安全帽。而“出行”则可以用来作为逛街的理由。还有“远行”。“有了现代的乘坐飞机出游，”李正欣和司马勤写道，“什么是‘远行’得看出行者自己怎么理解。”
Ms. Lee jumped ahead to Nov. 8, Election Day in the United States. The almanac says it will be a good day for rituals — voting — and for “breaking ground” and “raising beams,” signifying new beginnings. The almanac appears to warn against buying votes. Nov. 8 will be a bad day for “paying out money.”
李正欣翻到了11月8日，也就是美国的选举日。黄历上说当天宜举行仪式——选举——“动土”和“上梁”，预示着新的开始。黄历似乎还警告不要贿选：当天忌“出财”。
Ms. Lee, a pianist, has done translation work for film directors like Peter Greenaway and stars like Jackie Chan. Mr. Smith, who has written about music and culture for The Financial Times, is the author of “Fate! Luck! Chance!: Amy Tan, Stewart Wallace and the Making of ‘The Bonesetter’s Daughter’ Opera.” Together they worked on David Henry Hwang’s Broadway comedy “Chinglish” and on “Kung Fu,” a musical based on the life of Bruce Lee.
身为钢琴师的李正欣为彼得·格林纳威(Peter Greenaway)等电影导演和成龙等明星做过翻译。司马勤则是《金融时报》(The Financial Times)的音乐和文化话题撰稿人，还著有《命、运、缘：谭恩美、惠士钊与接骨师之女歌剧创作》(Fate！ Luck！Chance！Amy Tan，Stewart Wallace and the Making of The Bonesetter's Daughter Opera)。夫妻二人一起参与过黄哲伦(David Henry Hwang)的百老汇喜剧《中式英语》(Chinglish)，以及根据李小龙的生平改编的音乐剧《功夫》(Kung Fu)。
Their almanac began as a project for a gala at the Museum of Chinese in America, at 215 Centre Street in Manhattan, and the publishers now print about 5,000 copies to sell in several locations, including the museum’s gift shop, as well as online.
刚开始，他们推出《珍黄历》是为了曼哈顿中街215号的美国华人博物馆(Museum of Chinese in America)的一场盛会。现在，黄历的印数大约为5000册，在包括该博物馆的礼品店在内的实体场所和网上出售。
“We figured it would be a one-time thing,” Ms. Lee said. “They ended up selling the ones they did not give away at the gala in the gift shop and they said, ‘Do you have more books?’ All of a sudden, we got a job.” And a lecture date to talk about the coming year — Jan. 30, a good day for rituals and going out.
“我们以为只会做一次，”李正欣说。“最后，他们把会上没送完的那些黄历放在礼品店里卖出去了，又问，‘你们还有吗？’突然之间，我们有了一项新工作。”而以即将到来的新一年为主题的讲座时间也安排在了1月30日。当天宜举行仪式和出行。
Perhaps more important, they relied on the almanac to set their wedding date. Their wedding, in Hong Kong on Aug. 27, 2006, took place on what the large-size almanac said would be a “general all-purpose good-weather day,” Mr. Smith said. “Good for planting, meeting friends and going out, and hairdressing. A general great party day.”
或许更重要的是，他们靠黄历定下了婚期。两人的婚礼于2006年8月27日在香港举行。中文黄历写着当天是“诸事皆宜的吉日，” 司马勤说。“宜栽种、会友、出行、理发。总的来说是一个适合聚会的大好日子。”