Instead of consulting psephologists, pollsters and political analysts for forecasts on the Indian election next spring, you could just look at the common person’s plate. It all comes down to onions and salt.
不用向选举统计学家、民意测验专家和政治分析师寻求对印度明年春天选举的结果预测，只需看看普通百姓的餐盘。一切都要看洋葱和盐。
Shifts in onion prices, especially near election time, are enough to turn any incumbent party anti-allium. Last December, onions cost about 20 rupees a kilo; by October, you couldn’t buy any in Delhi for less than 100 rupees. The soaring prices inspired hundreds of editorials, with news bureaus clocking the fate of the bulb with as much care as if it were an ailing politician — more, because onions are indispensable, while politicians can be easily replaced.
洋葱价格的浮动，特别是在临近选举的时候，足以让任何一个执政党产生反葱属植物的情绪。去年12月，每公斤洋葱售价大约20卢比（约合2元人民币）。到了今年10月，在德里没有100卢比是根本买不到一公斤的。数百篇针对价格暴涨的社评见诸报端，新闻机构像对待一位境况不佳的政界人士一样，小心翼翼地记录这种球状植物的命运，甚至有过之而无不及，因为是洋葱不可或缺的，换个政客却很容易。
The grim ghost of the Great Onion Crisis of 2010 is stalking the Congress Party-led ruling coalition: That year, after onion prices more than doubled in a week, the government had to ban exports and start importing from Pakistan in order to avert street protests and mass unrest. When the cost of onions goes up, governments can come down.
2010年洋葱大危机(Great Onion Crisis)的幽灵缠上了国大党(Congress Party)领导的联合政府：那一年，洋葱价格在一周之内涨了一倍多，之后政府不得不禁止出口洋葱，并开始从巴基斯坦进口洋葱，以避免出现街头抗议和大规模骚乱。如果洋葱价格上去了，政府可能就要下台了。
And now the politicians are worried again. One impassioned member of the lower house of Parliament said in August that the rise in onion prices and the drop in the rupee reminded him of Humpty Dumpty — and asked what the government intended to do before its own great fall?
政客们如今又开始忧虑了。8月，议会下议院一名议员满怀激情地说，洋葱价格的上涨和卢比的贬值让他想起了“矮胖子”汉普蒂·汤普蒂(Humpty Dumpty)，并问政府在摔个大跟头之前有何打算。
Deprived of the fried onions that accompany daal, the braised and chopped onions that form the base of many vegetable and meat dishes, the raw onions without which North Indian kebabs would lose their self-respect, few Indians care to remember that the ancient Hindu texts had unkind things to say about onion and garlic eaters. The Puranas cautioned that eating onions made one sinful, which would require atonement. They declared onions a food best abjured, like mushrooms, pigs that eat waste matter, grains that grow in places of filth, and milk taken from a cow less than 10 days after calving.
失去了搭配木豆的炸洋葱、作为许多素菜和荤菜的基础的炖洋葱碎、一旦缺少会让北印度烤串觉得羞于见人的生洋葱，大多数印度人似乎都忘了，古印度教典籍里对食用洋葱和大蒜的人有些不好的说法。“往世书”(Puranas)告诫世人，吃洋葱是有罪的，必须为此赎罪。它们宣称最好还是戒除吃洋葱的习惯，类似的还有蘑菇、会吃排泄物的猪、污浊之地出产的谷物和刚产犊不足10天的奶牛身上挤下的奶。
Though some strict vegetarians and members of the Jain community won’t touch onion or garlic, the rest of India overcompensates. According to the Onion and Potato Baseline Report, India produced a healthy 16.10 million tons of onions in 2011-2012. That should have been enough to meet the Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research’s tentative estimate for demand, 15.71 million tons. But then villainous forces intervened: bad crops, market forces, over-export, hoarders.
一些严格的素食者和耆那教(Jain)教徒是不碰洋葱和大蒜的，但其他印度人完全帮他们吃了回来。据《洋葱和土豆基础报告》(Onion and Potato Baseline Report)称，2011年到2012年期间，印度出产了1610万吨洋葱。这个产量本足以满足洋葱大蒜研究会(Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research)估计的1571万吨的需求。然而还有一些不利因素：收成不好、市场力量、出口过量、有人大量囤积等。
By the first week of November, there were tiny hints of hope: The kharif onion crop was just in, prices fell slightly, the government got a bit of breathing space.
11月的第一周曾出现略微的希望：秋收的洋葱正好上市，洋葱价格小幅下降，政府因此有了少许喘息的空间。
And then, just as the onion angst subsided, there was an unexpected run on salt. Prices shot to 100-150 rupees per kilo in the states of Jharkhand, Bihar and West Bengal, up from the usual 16-20 rupees per kilo.
而就在洋葱引起的焦虑褪去时，盐价突然猛涨。在贾坎德邦、比哈尔邦和西孟加拉邦，每公斤盐的价格从通常的16到20卢比狂飙至100到150卢比。
Panic buying ensued. In the city of Darjeeling, in West Bengal, 13 traders were detained by the police for selling salt at exorbitant rates. The authorities in the neighboring state of Bihar detained three people for spreading rumors about a salt shortage; the food and civil supply minister promised that any more scaremongers would be interrogated if necessary. The Bihar police are not known for the gentleness of their methods.
随后便出现了恐慌性购买。在西孟加拉邦的大吉岭市，13名商人因高价售盐被警方拘留。在邻近的比哈尔邦，当局拘留了三个散布食盐短缺谣言的人，负责食品和民用物资供给的部长承诺，如有必要会审问更多散布谣言的人。比哈尔警方的办案手法可是以狠辣著称的。
Salt isn’t only indispensable, especially to the poor, for whom it is often the only affordable condiment; it also carries emotional weight, given the part that it played in India’s freedom movement. Gandhi’s march to Dandi in protest of the heavy British salt tax is well-remembered. (Less well commemorated is the Great Hedge of India, the massive customs barrier built down the country’s central spine, which, according to the travel writer Roy Moxham, made it much harder to obtain salt in the late 1870s and so indirectly contributed to Mahatma Gandhi’s march.) Along with the many freedoms that the architects of independence intended to grant their fellow Indians was freedom from a duty on salt. The minutes of an early session of the Constituent Assembly, on Aug. 20, 1947, reveal a moving proposal to insert a line into the new Constitution prohibiting any tax on the commodity.
盐也是必不可少的，尤其对穷人来说，盐往往是他们唯一能买得起的调料。而且还不止如此，考虑到盐在印度自由运动中所起的作用，它还有着情感意义。人们对甘地为抗议英国沉重的盐税而领导的向丹地(Dandi)进发的游行记忆犹新。（对印度长篱障[Great Hedge of India]的纪念相对没那么多。但据旅行作家罗伊·莫克塞姆[Roy Moxham]称，19世纪70年代末，沿着印度中部脊梁修建起来的那堵巨大的海关障碍加大了获得盐的难度，因而间接导致了圣雄甘地的游行。）印度独立的缔造者希望自己的印度同胞能享受到多项自由，其中之一便是不缴纳盐税的自由。制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)在1947年8月20日召开了一次早期会议，那次会议的记录提到了一项令人动容的提议，建议在新宪法中加入禁止征收任何盐税的条款。
Two years later, in Aug. 1949, some legislators suggested that this was impractical. India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was asked for his opinion. “There is hardly anyone in this House who does not feel rather strongly on this question of salt,” he said.
两年后的1949年8月，一些立法者称这一提议不切实际。有人问印度首任总理贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁(Jawaharlal Nehru)意下如何。“议会中几乎每一个人都对盐这个问题抱着强烈的情绪，”他说。
“Quite apart from the economic implications involved in this matter, salt, at one time in our national history, in the history of our struggle for freedom, became the word of power which moved large masses of human beings and brought about a strange revolution in the country in the course of a few months.” Having placed this on the record, he agreed it would indeed be impractical to exempt salt from taxation, and the matter ended there.
“除了这个问题涉及的经济意义，在我们国家的历史上，在我们争取自由的历史上，盐一度是一个充满力量的词，这种力量感动了很多人，还在几个月的时间里引发了一场奇特的革命。”在将这番言论记载下之后，他也认同不征收盐税的确不切实际，该提议到此为止。
The latest spike in prices was caused by rumor, not iniquitous taxation: Gossip, apparently baseless, had it that recent differences of opinion between Nitish Kumar, Bihar’s chief minister, and Narendra Modi, Gujarat’s chief minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s contender for prime minister, would result in a salt war, since Bihar imports much of the stuff from Gujarat. Mr. Kumar and the B.J.P. traded seasoned salvos over the weekend, but for now the skirmish has ended without bloodshed.
最近的价格飙升是谣言而非盐税畸高引起的：一些明显毫无根据的小道消息称，比哈尔邦首席部长尼蒂什·库马尔(Nitish Kumar)与古吉拉特邦首席部长、印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)总理候选人纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)之间的意见分歧会引发一场盐战，因为比哈尔邦的盐有相当一部分是从古吉拉特邦进口的。周末，库马尔和印度人民党进行了激烈的交锋，不过目前冲突已经结束了，没有造成巨大损失。