When was the last time you cheated?
你上一次骗人，是什么时候的事情？
Not on the soul-scorching magnitude of, say, Bernie Madoff, Lance Armstrong or John Edwards. Just nudge-the-golf-ball cheating.
这里说的，可不是像伯尼·麦道夫(Bernie Madoff)、兰斯·阿姆斯特朗(Lance Armstrong)以及约翰·爱德华兹(John Edwards)那种骇人听闻的严重欺诈行为，它无伤大雅，比如在打高尔夫球时轻轻往前推一点的小小耍诈。
Maybe you rounded up numbers on an expense report. Let your eyes wander during a high-stakes exam. Or copied a friend’s expensive software.
也许是在报销表格上对数字四舍五入，在关键的考试中东张西望，又或者从朋友那里拷贝昂贵的软件。
And how did you feel afterward? You may recall nervousness, a twinge of guilt.
那么，在那之后你感觉如何？回想起来，当时你可能觉得紧张，还交织着一阵内疚。
But new research shows that as long as you didn’t think your cheating hurt anyone, you may have felt great. The discomfort you remember feeling then may actually be a response rewritten now by your inner moral authority, your “should” voice.
但是，新的研究表明，只要你自认为小骗局没有伤害到任何人，你的自我感觉就很可能相当良好。你所回忆起来的那种不适感实际上很可能是你内心的道德权威——那个总是督促你“应该如何如何”的声音，对你的反应做出的改写。
Unethical behavior is increasingly studied by psychologists and management specialists. They want to understand what prompts people to abrogate core values, why cheating appears to be on the rise, and what interventions can be made. To find a powerful tool to turn people toward ethical decisions, many researchers have focused on the guilt that many adults feel after cheating.
近来，心理学家和管理专家对不道德行为的研究日益增加。他们想要了解，是什么促使人们罔顾核心价值观？为什么欺骗不断增加？可以对此施加哪些干预措施？为了寻找能将人们引导向道德决策的强有力工具，大量研究人员将自己的研究重点放在了众多成年人在欺骗他人后普遍产生的内疚感之上。
So some behavioral ethics researchers were startled by a study published recently in The Journal of Personality and Social Psychology by researchers at the University of Washington, the London Business School, Harvard and the University of Pennsylvania. The title: “The Cheater’s High: The Unexpected Affective Benefits of Unethical Behavior.”
因此，华盛顿大学(University of Washington)、伦敦商学院(London Business School)、哈佛大学(Harvard)以及宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)的研究人员最近发表在《人格与社会心理学杂志》(The Journal of Personality and Social Psychology)上的一项研究颇让某些行为伦理学研究人员大跌眼镜。该研究的标题是：“行骗者快感：不道德行为可带来意外的情感效益。”
“Showing people feeling positively after committing a moral transgression is pretty novel,” said Scott Wiltermuth, an assistant professor in the business school at the University of Southern California, who writes about behavioral ethics and was not involved in this study.
“人们在违背道德准则的时候会产生正面的感觉，这个发现非常新奇，”曾就行为伦理学撰写专著，但未参与上述研究的美国南加州大学(University of Southern California)商学院助理教授斯科特·维尔特姆(Scott Wiltermuth)说。
One reason for pervasive garden-variety cheating is “that we have so many ways to cheat anonymously, especially via the Web,” Professor Wiltermuth said. The exhilaration, he added, may come from “people congratulating themselves on their cleverness.”
小打小闹的欺骗行为之所以无处不在，原因之一是“我们有太多可以匿名进行欺骗的方式，通过网络行骗尤其如此，”维尔特姆教授说。行骗后的兴奋感，则可能来源于“人们对自己的小聪明感到沾沾自喜，”他补充道。
The impact is real: According to some estimates, software piracy costs companies $63 billion a year globally. The I.R.S. has reported an annual gap between actual and reported taxes of about $345 billion, more than half of that because incomes are underreported and deductions inflated.
但这些欺骗行为导致的影响却十分真实：据估计，全球的公司每年因软件盗版而损失的费用可高达630亿美元。而美国国内税务局（Internal Revenue Service，简称IRS）则报告，每年应报税和实缴税之间存在约3450亿美元的缺口，其中一半以上是因为瞒报收入以及抵扣通货膨胀造成。
In the study’s initial experiments, participants were asked to predict how they would feel if they cheated. Badly, they generally reported.
在该研究的初期实验中，研究人员要求参与者们预测自己在行骗后会有什么感觉。他们普遍这样回答说，那一定很糟。
Another set of participants was given a baseline assessment of their moods. Then they took a word-unscrambling test. After finishing, they were handed an answer key, told to check their answers and asked to report the number of correct ones. For every right answer, they would earn $1.
另一组参与者在基线情绪评估后，接受了拼字测试。在测试完成后，研究人员把答案交给他们，并要求他们自己核对后汇告做对了多少题。每做对一道题，他们可获得1美元的奖励。
Participants did not know that researchers could tell if they corrected wrong answers; 41 percent did so.
这些参与者并不知道，研究人员可以分辨出来他们是否把错误的答案改对了；结果，有41%的人都改了答案。
The follow-up assessment of their moods indeed showed that the cheaters, on average, felt an emotional boost that the honest participants didn’t.
关于他们情绪的随访评估切实地表明，作弊者基本上都感到精神振奋，而诚实的参与者则并非如此。
“The fact that people feel happier after cheating is disturbing, because there is emotional reinforcement of the behavior, meaning they could be more likely to do it again,” said Nicole E. Ruedy, the study’s lead author and a postdoctoral research associate at the University of Washington’s Center for Leadership and Strategic Thinking.
“人们在作弊后会更加快乐这个事实多少令人不安，因为这种情绪会对欺骗行为造成强化效果——这就意味着此后人们将更容易故伎重演，”该研究的主要作者、华盛顿大学领导力和战略思想研究中心(Center for Leadership and Strategic Thinking)的博士后研究助理妮科尔·E·鲁迪(Nicole E. Ruedy)表示。
Then she and her colleagues removed the financial incentive. A new group would take a test on a computer. The results, they were told, would correlate with intelligence and a likelihood of future success.
然后，她和同事们撤消了经济奖励，并让新一组参与者在计算机上接受测试，还告诉他们，测试的结果与他们的智力和未来成功的可能性有关。
But 77 participants were told that if they saw a pop-up message offering them the correct answer, they should ignore it and continue working.
但是，研究人员告知77名参与者，如果他们看到为他们提供正确答案的弹出信息，应忽略它并继续测试。
About 68 percent of this group cheated at least once, clicking the button for the correct answer. In the follow-up assessment, this group also reported a rise in upbeat feelings.
在这组参与者中，有约68%的人至少作弊了一次——点击按钮偷看正确答案。同样，在随访评估中，该组也报告乐观情绪有所上升。
Why did people feel so good about cheating? Was it relief at not being caught? That would imply that while cheating, they felt stress or distress. Or had they deceived themselves, rationalizing or minimizing the cheating to feel better?
为什么人们对作弊会感到不亦乐乎？因为没有被抓个现行逃过了一劫？如果是这样，那么他们在作弊时应该会困扰不已压力重重。又或者，他们是自欺欺人地将欺骗合理化最小化，从而让自己心理可以好过一点？
Stripping away these possibilities, the researchers found that those who cheated experienced thrill, self-satisfaction, a sense of superiority.
在排除了这些可能性之后，研究人员发现，骗子们往往感到兴奋、自我满足且充满优越感。
The effect persisted even when subjects cheated indirectly. Next, they would solve math problems with someone who was just pretending to be a participant. The fake participant reported the results, elevating the scores, thus cheating for both. But no actual participant objected. And again, they felt just fine about it.
即使受试者们只是间接作弊，这种效应仍然存在。在接下来的实验中，受试者们与假扮的参与者一起做数学题。假参与者称自己知道答案，并提出以此作弊来提高两人的成绩。但真正的参与者无一反对。而且随访表明，他们并没有因此而感到有什么不妥。
“We were a little appalled,” Dr. Ruedy said.
“我们都有些震惊，”鲁迪博士说。
The researchers did not measure whether the “high” was short-lived. Nonetheless, the elated, addictive feelings triggered by cheating point to the difficulty in changing behavior, since old-fashioned guilt tripping seems ineffective.
研究人员还没有测定过这些“快感”是否只是短暂存在。然而，欺骗可触发类似成瘾的欣快感这一点表明，要改变欺骗行为相当困难，在传统的负罪感看起来并没有什么效果的情况下尤其如此。
One way may be to remove the potential cheater’s cloak of anonymity.
一种可能的解决方式是去除潜在的骗子们身上“匿名”这个保护伞。
A study last year in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences looked at documents on which cheating often occurs, like tax forms and car insurance policies. Typically, individuals fill out information first, creatively or honestly, only attesting to accuracy with a signature at the end. But researchers sent an audit form to customers of an auto insurer, asking for their signatures at the top, like a swearing-in before court testimony. This form resulted in a 10.25 percent bump in the mileage reported, even though higher mileage usually translates into higher premiums.
去年发表在《美国科学院院刊》(The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上的一项研究审查了经常出现欺诈的文档，如纳税申报表格和汽车保单等。一般来说，人们会先填写个人信息（无论是否如实），只在最后签个名来证明以上属实。但是，研究人员向某一汽车保险公司的客户发放了审计表格上，要求他们在最上一栏签名，就像出庭作证时宣誓一样。使用这种表格后，虽然人们明知较高的行驶里程通常会导致保费提升，可报告里程还是增加了10.25%。
Another solution to everyday subterfuge, suggested Professor Wiltermuth, would be to undercut the cheater’s self-satisfaction. Companies could send a message that “a monkey could game our system,” undercutting cheating as clever and emphasizing how much employee integrity is valued, he said.
维尔特姆教授提出，对付日常骗术伎俩的另一种方法是削弱骗子们的自我满足感。他建议，公司可以发送“连猴子都可以玩转我们的系统”这类消息来打破欺诈和聪明之间的等号，并强调员工诚信的价值。
Dr. Ruedy noted that the study’s cheaters believed that no one was hurt by their actions. “Perhaps people could be made aware of the costs that others actually bear,” she said. “Identify victims of their behavior.”
鲁迪博士指出，该研究中的作弊者都相信自己的行为并没有伤害任何人。“如果可以指出欺骗行为的受害者，让‘骗子们’认识到他们的行为实际上让他人付出了怎样的代价，也许就可以制止这种行为，”她说。