Tim and Jenni Earll didn’t have a lot of money saved up, but they’d seen enough of their friends buy homes to feel like fools for burning their cash on rent. So they took out a 30-year mortgage and bought a fixer-upper on a quiet street in Seattle’s Roxhill neighborhood for $309,900. That was in the spring of 2007.
蒂姆·厄尔(Tim Earll)和詹妮·厄尔(Jenni Earll)夫妇没什么积蓄，但是眼看着朋友们一个个都买了房，就越发觉得自己在房租上烧钱太不明智，于是他们申请了30年期的抵押贷款，以30.99万美元（约合人民币188.87万元）买下一套售价低廉、但亟待修缮的房子。房子位于西雅图罗克斯希尔(Roxhill)街区一条宁静的街边。时值2007年春。
Tim and a cousin spent the next couple of years trying to build some “sweat equity” by redoing the electrical wiring, plumbing and landscaping, but when Jenni lost her administrative position, they had to delay the improvements. Soon after, Tim’s work at a glass company began petering out, too. Desperate to hold on to their house, they sought a loan modification, but by the end of 2010, the bank refused to refinance. The following summer, it foreclosed and auctioned off their home to AKA Investors L.L.C., which paid $155,000 in cash for the house.
接下来的几年里，蒂姆和他的一个表亲花费了大量心血，重新铺设管线、美化环境，以期积累一些“血汗产权”（sweat equity，此处指破旧房屋的承租者对房产修缮投入劳动，使房屋增值，从而获得的产权——译注）。不过，当原本担任行政职务的詹妮失业后，他们不得不延缓了装修。没过多久，蒂姆也被玻璃公司裁员了。为了保住房子，夫妻俩在情急之下寻求了贷款修改，但在2010年底，银行拒绝了他们的续贷申请。第二年夏天，夫妻俩丧失了抵押品赎回权，银行将他们的房产拍卖给了投资公司AKA Investors L.L.C.，该公司支付了15.5万美元（约合人民币94.47万元）的现金，买下这套房产。
There’s a popular perception that so-called McMansions and Garage-Mahals brought down the housing market. Yet more than half of all homes that went into foreclosure between 2007 and 2012 were actually in the lowest price tier when they were purchased, and most were located in middle- and lower-income areas. As foreclosures mounted and home prices plummeted, observers have noted, it was disparately the wealthier investors who bought them up at bargain prices. (Credit was hard to come by, after all, which benefited cash buyers.) Blackstone, the private-equity giant, bought almost 30,000 homes around the country and now has a nationwide single-family-home rental platform. Others were smaller outfits, like AKA, which bought around 25 homes in the Seattle area.
有一种流行的观点认为，拖垮住房市场的罪魁祸首，正是所谓的“麦克豪宅”（McMansion，形容一些庞大而突兀的住宅，一味求大却没有特色，还被不断大量复制，就像快餐汉堡一样——译注）和“车库宫殿”（Garage-Mahal，形容庞大、奢华的车库——译注）。但是，在2007年至2012年间，超过半数的止赎房屋当初其实都是以最低档次的价格成交的，而且多数位于中低收入者聚居的小区。随着止赎率的飙升和房价的暴跌，观察人士注意到，以低廉的价格入手止赎房的，恰恰是那些手头阔绰的投资者（毕竟，信用是很难建立的，因此现金购房者更具优势）。私募股权巨头黑石集团(Blackstone)从全国各地购买了将近三万处房产，如今已建立起一个覆盖全国的独户家庭住房租赁平台。相比之下，其他投资者就没有这么大的手笔了，AKA公司便是一例，该公司在西雅图地区购买了大约25套房产。
Now, five years after the start of the financial crisis, the housing market has come back, and many of these investors are cashing in. According to tabulations by Redfin, an online real estate listings site, banks have already sold about 1.5 million of the nearly 2 million homes that were foreclosed on during the past half-decade. Resales are becoming more common and can be hugely profitable. A house in Redwood City, Calif., for instance, was sold in a foreclosure auction in 2011 for less than half what the evicted owner paid in 2006. Ten months later, it was flipped for close to its previous price. Another house in Los Angeles went into foreclosure in 2012 and was flipped seven months later for a markup of $254,000, or 66 percent. Of the 87,062 foreclosures in the last five years that were bought by corporate investors and have been flipped, about a quarter were sold for at least $100,000 more than what the investor originally paid, according to Redfin. (Although it’s impossible to know how much investors spent on upgrades or renovations.)
如今，在金融危机爆发五年后，住房市场已经在复苏，于是很多投资者纷纷开始投入真金白银。根据在线房产发布网站Redfin的表格数据，过去五年来，在银行手里的将近200万套止赎房当中，有150万套左右已经售出。二次销售正变得越来越普遍，而且利润空间很大。比如加州雷德伍德城(Redwood City)的一套房源，在2011年止赎拍卖会上的成交价，还不及2006年被售时买家支付价格的一半；十个月后，这套房子又以接近原价的水平被倒卖了出去。又如洛杉矶的一套房源，在2012年被银行收回，七个月后，投资者将其倒卖，赚了25.40万美元（约合人民币154.80万元），相当于66%的利润率。根据Redfin的数据，过去五年来，在投资公司入手并已倒卖出去的87062套止赎房中，有约四分之一的房子，转手差价至少高达10万美元（约合人民币60.95万元）。（当然，至于投资者在房屋增值或装修上花了多少钱，就不得而知了。）
That includes the Earlls’ house. Last year, AKA flipped it for $290,000, an 87 percent markup. The woman who bought it is a recently retired pharmacy technician named Candace Lee, who searched for a new home for two years before purchasing. And like many buyers these days, she ended up paying cash. Incidentally, she also gave the Earlls a tour of the place a few months ago, when they drove by wistfully and saw her in the front yard. Lee’s purchase price was about what the Earlls paid for the house in the first place. If they had been able to refinance they’d likely be about whole by now. Instead, their credit is scarred for at least seven years.
这其中就包括，原属厄尔夫妇的那套房产。去年，AKA公司将其以29万美元（约合176.74元人民币）的价格倒卖了出去，赚取了87%的差价。买家坎达丝·李(Candace Lee)是一名刚刚退休不久的药品技术员。她物色了两年，才买下这套新居。和近段时间的许多购房者一样，她最后也用现金支付了房款。顺便提一句，几个月前，她还请厄尔夫妇进门参观过一次。当时，厄尔夫妇开车经过，恋恋不舍地看着昔日的家园，而她正好就在前院。坎达丝·李入手这套房子的价格，与厄尔夫妇此前支付的价格差不多，如果夫妇俩当年成功申请到重新续贷，他们现在或许已经还清贷款了；而相反，他们的信用已经受损，至少要等七年才能弥补。
The boom-bust-flip phenomenon is just one of the most obvious ways that research suggests the financial crisis has benefited the upper class while brutalizing the middle class. Rents have risen at twice the pace of the overall cost-of-living index, partly because middle-class families can’t get the credit they need to buy. That means “landlords can raise rents with impunity,” says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin. And according to a report by David Autor, the M.I.T. economist, job losses during and after the recession were concentrated in midskilled and midwage jobs, like white-collar sales, office and administrative jobs; and blue-collar production, craft, repair and operative jobs. Employment for higher-skilled workers, on the other hand, has grown substantially. As the Earlls can attest, the consequences of job loss go far beyond the spell of joblessness. Research shows that layoffs can worsen earnings, health and even mortality rates for up to 20 years after the initial displacement. Not to mention homeownership.
研究表明，从很多方面看，金融危机是上流社会的春天，中产阶级的寒冬。而房市的“繁荣-萧条-倒卖”(boom-bust-flip)现象，只是其中最明显的一方面罢了。房租上涨的步伐比总的生活成本指数快了一倍，造成这种局面的原因，部分在于中产阶级家庭一时无法建立起购房所需的信用。这就意味着“房东可以肆无忌惮地涨房租”，Redfin的行政总裁格伦·克尔曼(Glenn Kelman)说。而根据麻省理工学院(MIT)的经济学家戴维·奥特(David Autor)发布的一份报告，无论是在经济衰退期间还是之后，失业人数最多的行业，集中在技能要求和薪资待遇处于中等水平的行业，比如白领当中的销售、办公室与行政工作，以及蓝领中的产品生产、手工艺、修理和操作性的工作。而另一方面，高技能人才的就业率却已有显著增长。失业造成的后果，远不止丢掉一份工作那么简单，厄尔夫妇的情况就可以充分说明。研究表明，裁员会给人的收入、健康甚至道德水平造成不良影响，这种影响可以持续长达20年。至于买房计划受到的打击，就更不用说了。
The recovery has seen a continuation of this pattern. The top 1 percent have captured about 95 percent of the income gains since the recession ended in June 2009, according to work by Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez. And as wages and employment of the middle class have stagnated or fallen, tax policy has hurt them, too. Sure, the federal government raised the marginal tax rate on high earners earlier this year. But many state and local governments, desperate for revenue in the wake of major budget shortfalls, are raising consumption taxes through general sales taxes, and also individual excise taxes and fees for everything from alcohol to birth certificates to vehicle registrations. These kinds of taxes and fees are regressive — the less money you make, the higher the share of your income you pay. Consumption taxes may one day largely displace state income taxes altogether in many states, as governors of North Carolina, Georgia, Kansas and Nebraska have proposed. Meanwhile, state budget cuts are occurring in areas like public schools, colleges, public transportation and other services, which disproportionately affect middle-and-lower-class residents.
经济复苏是这一模式的延续。根据托马斯·皮凯蒂(Thomas Piketty)和伊曼纽尔·塞斯(Emmanuel Saez)的调查，自2009年6月经济停止衰退以来，大约95%的收入增长都集中在那1%的富人身上。在中产阶级的收入和就业水平停滞不前、乃至大幅下跌的同时，税收政策也令他们元气大伤。诚然，联邦政府今年初提高了高收入者的边际税率，但是许多州政府和地方政府为了填补巨大的预算缺口，纷纷提高了消费税。无论是一般销售税，还是个人特种消费行为税、乃至针对酒精、出生证、车辆登记等收取的费用，都呈现出全面上涨的趋势。这些税费具有累退/递减的性质，也就是说，赚的钱越少，需要负担的比例越大。在很多州，消费税或许有一天会全线取代州政府征收的所得税，正如北卡罗来纳州、佐治亚州、堪萨斯州和内布拉斯加州的州长所提议的那样。与此同时，州政府削减预算的领域集中在公立学校、高校、公共交通和其他服务，也会严重影响中下层阶级居民。
Even before the recession, inequality was growing. Now, despite all the promises that politicians of both parties have made, the housing market and public policy are helping to accelerate the trend. Tim Earll, who calls himself a progressive, told me he’s become disillusioned with politics but tries not to dwell on the events of the last few years. “I don’t think of us as some sad-sack case,” he said, noting that he’s been lucky to have support from his mother for both housing and for school. After eventually being laid off from the glass company, he decided to go back to school for graphic design, and like many displaced middle-class Americans, he is hopeful the retraining will help him land the chance to rebuild his finances. “It’s very irritating not to be a few more rungs up at this point than we were,” he said.“But it is what it is.”
早在经济衰退以前，不平等现象就在加剧。而如今，尽管两党的政客都做出了种种承诺，住房市场和公共政策却在助长这种不平等愈演愈烈。蒂姆·厄尔自称是个改革派，在接受我的采访时，他说自己对政治上的事情已经不抱幻想，只不过对于过去几年发生的事情，他不愿意多谈。“我并不认为我们的遭遇有多可怜。”他说，毕竟他在买房和上学时还得到了母亲的资助。自从被玻璃公司裁员后，他决定回到学校学习平面设计。和国内许多失业的中产阶级一样，他希望二次教育能够帮助自己找到工作，重新积累财产。“我心里的确会感到不平，有时会想，要是当初幸运一点就好了，”他说，“但人生就是这样。”