Two and a half millenniums ago, a prince named Siddhartha Gautama traveled to Bodh Gaya, India, and began to meditate beneath a tree. Forty-nine days of continuous meditation later, tradition tells us, he became the Buddha — the enlightened one.
2500年以前，一位名叫乔答摩·悉达多(Siddhartha Gautama)的王子来到印度的菩提伽耶，开始在一棵大树下打坐。相传，在连续七七四十九天的冥想之后，他开悟大道，后被世人尊称为“佛陀（Buddha，意为‘觉悟者’）”。
More recently, a psychologist named Amishi Jha traveled to Hawaii to train United States Marines to use the same technique for shorter sessions to achieve a much different purpose: mental resilience in a war zone.
近日，心理学家亚米希·杰哈(Amishi Jha)来到夏威夷，她试图采用与禅修相同的技巧——冥想来训练美国海军。当然，他们的目的可不是为了成佛，而是想要通过短期的训练来增强战区心理适应能力。
“We found that getting as little as 12 minutes of meditation practice a day helped the Marines to keep their attention and working memory — that is, the added ability to pay attention over time — stable,” said Jha, director of the University of Miami’s Contemplative Neuroscience, Mindfulness Research and Practice Initiative. “If they practiced less than 12 minutes or not at all, they degraded in their functioning.”
“我们发现，即使每天只进行12分钟的正念冥想练习也足以帮助海军们保持注意力和工作记忆——即长时间集中精力的能力——的稳定，”迈阿密大学(University of Miami)冥想神经学、正念研究和实践行动(Contemplative Neuroscience, Mindfulness Research and Practice Initiative)的主任杰哈说，“但如果练习时间不足12分钟或完全没有练习，他们在执行任务时的表现就会有所退步。”
Jha, whose program has received a $1.7 million, four-year grant from the Department of Defense, described her results at a bastion of scientific conservatism, the New York Academy of Sciences, during a meeting on “The Science of Mindfulness.” Yet mindfulness hasn’t long been part of serious scientific discourse. She first heard another scientist mention the word “meditation” during a lecture in 2005. “I thought, I can’t believe he just used that word in this audience, because it wasn’t something I had ever heard someone utter in a scientific context,” Jha said.
杰哈在素有科学保守主义堡垒之称的纽约科学院(New York Academy of Sciences)中的一场关于“正念科学”的会议上介绍了自己的研究结果。她的这个项目从美国国防部(Department of Defense)得到了为期四年，共计170万美元的资助。然而，“正念”作为一个论题得到严肃科学界的接纳还是不久前的事。杰哈第一次从另一位科学家口中听到“冥想”这个词是在2005年的一个讲座上。“我简直不敢相信他刚才在这些观众面前提到这个词——在此之前，我从未听说有人在科学背景下谈论过冥想，”她回忆道。
Although pioneers like Jon Kabat-Zinn, now emeritus professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, began teaching mindfulness meditation as a means of reducing stress as far back as the 1970s, all but a dozen or so of the nearly 100 randomized clinical trials have been published since 2005. And the most recent studies of mindfulness — the simple, nonjudgmental observation of a person’s breath, body or just about anything else — are taking the practice in directions that might have shocked the Buddha. In addition to military fitness, scientists are now testing brief stints of mindfulness training as a means to improve scores on standardized tests and lay down new connections between brain cells.
虽然早在20世纪70年代，以乔恩·卡巴特·津恩（Jon Kabat-Zinn，现为麻萨诸塞大学医学院[University of Massachusetts Medical Center]的退休教授）为代表的几位先驱者就已经开始教导人们采用正念冥想作为缓解压力的一种手段，但除了十余项研究之外，该领域中的所有近100项随机临床试验几乎都是在2005年以后才获得发表。在最近进行的一项正念研究中，研究人员对参与者的呼吸、身体状态以及其他特性进行了简单而客观的观察，他们认为，正念练习或可对人产生近似佛祖开悟的效果。除了军事体能，科学家们还测试了小量的正念训练能否用于提高标准考试成绩，并促进脑细胞间新连接的建立。
Michael Posner, of the University of Oregon, and Yi-Yuan Tang, of Texas Tech University, used functional M.R.I.’s before and after participants spent a combined 11 hours over two weeks practicing a form of mindfulness meditation developed by Tang. They found that it enhanced the integrity and efficiency of the brain’s white matter, the tissue that connects and protects neurons emanating from the anterior cingulate cortex, a region of particular importance for rational decision-making and effortful problem-solving.
俄勒冈大学(University of Oregon)的迈克尔·波斯纳(Michael Posner)和德克萨斯理工大学(Texas Tech University)的唐一源(Yi-Yuan Tang)要求研究参与者们在两周期间练习由唐研发的正念训练累计达11小时，并在练习前后分别使用功能性磁共振成像(M.R.I.)观察了他们的脑部活动。研究人员发现，正念练习增强了大脑白质的完整性和工作效率，白质组织可联系和保护源自前扣带皮层的神经元，而前扣带皮层对于理性决策和解决棘手的问题尤为重要。
Perhaps that is why mindfulness has proved beneficial to prospective graduate students. In May, the journal Psychological Science published the results of a randomized trial showing that undergraduates instructed to spend a mere 10 minutes a day for two weeks practicing mindfulness made significant improvement on the verbal portion of the Graduate Record Exam — a gain of 16 percentile points. They also significantly increased their working memory capacity, the ability to maintain and manipulate multiple items of attention.
或许这可以解释为什么正念练习对考研的学生大有裨益。五月份发表于《心理科学》杂志(Psychological Science)上的一项随机试验的结果显示，本科生在指导下每天花10分钟来进行正念练习，并坚持两周后，他们在研究生入学考试(Graduate Record Exam, GRE)中词汇部分的成绩就获得了显著提高——增进了16个百分位数。他们的工作记忆容量（维持注意力并操作多个项目的能力）也显著增加。
That a practice once synonymous with Eastern mysticism could be put to the service of Western rationalism may sound surprising, but consider: By emphasizing a focus on the here and now, it trains the mind to stay on task and avoid distraction.
一度被认为是东方神秘主义代名词的正念练习居然可以为西方理性主义服务，这听起来可能令人颇感惊奇。但是，考虑到这种练习往往强调要将注意力集中在此时此地，训练人们将头脑专注于当前的任务之上并避免分心，它能实现这样的效果也就不足为奇了。
“Your ability to recognize what your mind is engaging with, and control that, is really a core strength,” said Peter Malinowski, a psychologist and neuroscientist at Liverpool John Moores University in England. “For some people who begin mindfulness training, it’s the first time in their life where they realize that a thought or emotion is not their only reality, that they have the ability to stay focused on something else, for instance their breathing, and let that emotion or thought just pass by.”
“认识自己的头脑正专注于何事，并对其加以控制的能力是一种真正的核心力量(core strength)，”英国利物浦约翰·穆尔斯大学(Liverpool John Moores University)的心理学家和神经科学家彼得·马利诺夫斯基(Peter Malinowski)说，“对某些正念训练的初学者而言，这是他们有生以来第一次认识到某种思想或情绪并不是现实世界的唯一内容，他们完全有能力将注意力转移到其他东西，如呼吸之上，让那些情绪或思想化作人生的过客。”
But one of the most surprising findings of recent mindfulness studies is that it could have unwanted side effects. Raising roadblocks to the mind’s peregrinations could, after all, prevent the very sort of mental vacations that lead to epiphanies. In 2012, Jonathan Schooler, who runs a lab investigating mindfulness and creativity at the University of California, Santa Barbara, published a study titled “Inspired by Distraction: Mind Wandering Facilitates Creative Incubation.” In it, he found that having participants spend a brief period of time on an undemanding task that maximizes mind wandering improved their subsequent performance on a test of creativity. In a follow-up study, he reported that physicists and writers alike came up with their most insightful ideas while spacing out.
不过，近期的正念研究得到的最令人惊讶的发现之一是：正念练习也可能存在有害的副作用。毕竟，顿悟往往出现在你给头脑放假，让思维天马行空的时候，高度集中注意力的冥思苦想反而是种阻碍。乔纳森·斯库勒(Jonathan Schooler)在加州大学圣芭芭拉分校(University of California, Santa Barbara)拥有一个实验室，就正念练习与创造力之间的关系进行了探讨。2012年，他发表了一项题为《走神启迪灵感：心智游移有助于培养创造性》(Inspired by Distraction: Mind Wandering Facilitates Creative Incubation)的研究。该研究显示，在参与者短时间地从事轻松的任务（这种任务可以最大限度地促进心智游移）后，他们在创造力测试中的成绩有所改善。在一项后续研究中，斯库勒报告说，物理学家和作家们最有见地的想法都是身心放松之时灵光乍现的成果。
“A third of the creative ideas they had during a two-week period came when their minds were wandering,” Schooler said. “And those ideas were more likely to be characterized as ‘aha’ insights that overcame an impasse.”
“在为期两周的研究期间，他们报告有三分之一的创意是在走神时妙手偶得，”斯库勒说，“其中尤以可打破某种僵局的‘恍然大悟’为多。”
The trick is knowing when mindfulness is called for and when it’s not. “When you’re staring out the window, you may well be coming up with your next great idea,” he said. “But you’re not paying attention to the teacher. So the challenge is finding the balance between mindfulness and mind wandering. If you’re driving in a difficult situation, if you’re operating machinery, if you’re having a conversation, it’s useful to hold that focus. But that could be taken to an extreme, where one always holds their attention in the present and never lets it wander.”
诀窍在于把握好什么时候需要借重正念的力量，什么时候则不然。“当你凝视窗外时，下一个伟大的想法可能正在酝酿之中，”他说，“但这时你对老师讲的东西却心不在焉。在专心致志与心智游移之间找到平衡可能是一项严峻的挑战。如果你在路况不佳的情况下开车，在操作机器或者正在谈话，那你就需要非常专心。但如果一个人时时刻刻都紧绷着头脑中的那根弦未免也太过极端，偶尔在适当的时候稍微放松一下，走走神也未尝不可。”
Another potential drawback to mindfulness has been identified by researchers at Georgetown University. In a study presented at the Society for Neuroscience annual meeting in November, they found that the higher adults scored on a measurement of mindfulness, the worse they performed on tests of implicit learning — the kind that underlies all sorts of acquired skills and habits but that occurs without conscious awareness. In the study, participants were shown a long sequence of items and repeatedly challenged to guess which one would come next. Although supposedly random, it contained a hidden pattern that made some items more likely to appear than others. The more mindful participants were worse at intuiting the correct answers.
乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的研究人员发现正念练习还有一个潜在的缺点。在11月发表于美国神经科学学会(Society for Neuroscience)年会上的一项研究中，他们发现，在正念测试中得分越高的成年人在内隐学习（implicit learning，即无意识地习得技能和习惯的过程）测试中的表现就越差。在这项研究中，研究人员向参与者展示了一长串不同的项目，并一再要求他们猜测下一个项目会是什么。尽管这些项目号称随机排列，但实际上其中隐含着一定的模式——某些项目出现的可能性要大于其他的项目。相对而言，比较专心的参与者就不太善于凭直觉猜出正确答案。
“There’s so much our brain is doing when we’re not aware of it,” said the study’s leader, Chelsea Stillman, a doctoral candidate. “We know that being mindful is really good for a lot of explicit cognitive functions. But it might not be so useful when you want to form new habits.” Learning to ride a bicycle, speak grammatically or interpret the meaning of people’s facial expressions are three examples of knowledge we acquire through implicit learning — as if by osmosis, without our being able to describe how we did it. (Few of us can recite the rules of grammar, though most of us follow them when we speak.)
“有太多工作被我们的大脑默默完成，我们却对其一无所知，”这项研究的负责人、博士研究生切尔西·斯蒂尔曼(Chelsea Stillman)说，“我们知道，专心一致对大多数外显(explicit)认知功能都非常有益。但是，当你要形成新的习惯时，它可能就不这么灵光了。”学骑自行车、合乎语法地讲话以及解读他人面部表情的含义是我们通过内隐学习获得知识的三个实例——它们更像是某种耳濡目染的过程，我们自己也说不清楚到底是怎么学会的。（尽管我们大都遵循着语法规则来组织语言，但恐怕没几个人能把它们背诵出来。）
After meditating upon such sacrilegious findings, no doubt the Buddha, who taught a middle way between worldly and spiritual concerns, would have agreed that there is a time for using mindfulness to discover inner truths, a time for using it to survive a battle or an exam and a time to let go of mindfulness so that the mind may wander the universe.
上述思想看似亵渎神明，实际上却绝非如此——佛陀一直教诲人们应在世俗和精神关怀之间选择中道(middle way)，因此，想必他也会赞同：在生活中我们有时需要借助正念冥想去领悟内在的真理，有时需要使用这一技巧从战斗中幸存或搞定考试，但有时我们也需要解开心灵的束缚，让它无拘无束地漫游于宇宙天地之间。