A CUT ABOVE Lamb neck has overtaken oxtail as the boniest and most gnawable entree on the menu, and may be giving pork belly a run for the trendiest. Look for its soft, fatty meat shredded into agnolotti at Calliope, braised with juniper at the Marrow and roasted with Calabrian chile salsa verde at Cannibal. — Melissa Clark
脖子上的一块肉 羊脖已经超过牛尾成为菜单上骨头最多、最有嚼头的开胃菜，也许能和猪五花肉一起竞争最流行菜肴。Calliope餐厅把羊脖柔软、多脂的肉做成意大利肉饺；Marrow餐厅用杜松炖羊脖；Cannibal餐厅用卡拉布里亚辣椒欧芹酱烤羊脖。——Melissa Clark
THAI CENTRAL Hell’s Kitchen has been evolving into a neighborhood where fans of Thai food can get beyond the predictable purgatory of pad thai. That shift may have reached a tipping point with the recent arrival of Larb Ubol, where the chef Ratchanee Sumpathboon delivers authentic Isan specialties like papaya salads and grilled pork jowl. — Jeff Gordinier
泰菜精髓 在地狱厨房（Hell’s Kitchen，曼哈顿的一个区域——译注），泰菜迷们可以得到泰式炒河粉洗礼之外，超乎预料的东西。随着Larb Ubol餐厅的到来，那种变化可能已经达到了临界点，这里的大厨拉切尼·桑帕斯布(Ratchanee Sumpathboon)带来了真正的依善（Isan，泰国北部区域——译注）特色菜，比如木瓜沙拉和烤猪脸。——Jeff Gordinier
NOT-SO-LITTLE ITALY Old-timers mourn that Little Italy is being compressed by Chinatown’s growth, but in truth it’s sprouting new, upscale shoots. First, the Torrisi boys reclaimed Mulberry Street. And now on Mott Street, Emporio, Epistrophy, L’Asso, YN Bar (a wine bar — get it?) and Fiat Cafe are all open within a prosciutto bread’s throw from the classic Parisi bakery. — Julia Moskin
不是那么小的意大利 老住户们哀叹小意大利已经因为中国城的扩张而缩小了，但是实际上它正在长出高档次的新芽。首先，Torrisi餐厅的男孩子们重新占领了茂比利街。如今在莫特街上，出现了很多新餐厅：Emporio餐厅、Epistrophy餐厅、L’Asso餐厅、YN Bar（一个酒吧——你明白我的意思吧？）和Fiat咖啡馆。它们都和经典的巴黎面包房水准相近。——Julia Moskin
RAW PLEASURES Who said a cook always has to cook something? Tartare, carpaccio, crudo, sashimi — at moment-defining restaurants like Carbone, ZZ’s Clam Bar, Lafayette, Estela, Pearl & Ash and ABC Cocina, the menu reflex of our age involves going raw. — Jeff Gordinier
原料的乐趣 谁说必须烹制出什么东西才叫厨师？鞑靼牛肉、生牛肉片、生猪肉片、生鱼片——在像Carbone、ZZ’s Clam Bar、Lafayette、Estela、Pearl & Ash和ABC Cocina这样的最有时代特色的餐厅，反映我们这个时代的菜单也开始流行生食。——Jeff Gordinier
DRAMATIC DÉCOR It may not be tuxedo time all day long, but this season many dining rooms will be smartly turned out in graphic black and white. Tread the checkerboard terrace at the new Tavern on the Green, check out graffitilike murals at Botequim and admire the tiled ceiling in the Writing Room. — Florence Fabricant
戏剧化的装饰 虽然不是一整天都要穿上燕尾服，但是这个季节很多餐厅将以黑白图案时尚亮相。在新开的Tavern on the Green餐厅的棋盘露台上走两步；去看看Botequim餐厅的涂鸦式壁画；欣赏一下Writing Room餐厅贴着瓷砖的天花板。——Florence Fabricant
TRICKLE-DOWN TASTINGS You expect tasting menus at luxury restaurants like the new Gallery in Villard Michel Richard. But they are also filtering down to humbler spots, including Contra on the Lower East Side, and Yuji Haraguchi’s minuscule Okonomi in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. — Florence Fabricant
涓滴式品尝法 人们一般认为豪华餐厅才有品尝菜单，比如Villard Michel Richard酒店新开的Gallery餐厅。但是品尝菜单也进入了一些更低级别的餐厅，比如下东区的Contra餐厅以及原口二郎(Yuji Haraguchi)在布鲁克林威廉斯堡新开的迷你Okonomi餐厅。
VALUE-ADDED BREAD If you want to charge for bread and butter, you need to justify the price tag. So restaurants are baking specialty loaves and slathering them with house-made butters. You’ll find chicken butter with smoked bread at Pearl & Ash and three-onion buttermilk bread with seeded butter at 606 R&D. Piora has salted monkey bread with both whipped, herbed lardo and seaweed speckled butter. — Melissa Clark
增值面包 如果你想让顾客为面包和黄油付费，你需要让你的价签有些道理。有些餐厅供应特色烘烤面包，涂上自制的黄油。Pearl & Ash餐厅供应鸡黄油和熏烤面包；606 R&D餐厅供应三葱脱脂乳面包和带籽的黄油。Piora餐厅供应咸味猴子面包搭配用香料调味的熏肉和海藻黄油。——Melissa Clark
HIGHBALLS WITHOUT THE HIGH Bar menus are reaching out to teetotalers: Whole sections devoted to virgin cocktails have become more common and creative. Prime mocktail destinations include the NoMad, Saxon & Parole, and DLO Infusion Bar, in Dumbo, Brooklyn. — Robert Simonson
不含酒精的鸡尾酒 酒吧的酒单开始满足禁酒主义者的需求：酒单上有好几部分不含酒精的鸡尾酒已经越来越常见、越来越有创意。主要的无酒精鸡尾酒酒吧有布鲁克林达姆波的NoMad、Saxon & Parole和DLO Infusion Bar。
BAR SNACKS 2.0 A homemade-bitters-infused, handmade-ice-filled cocktail needs something thrilling to nibble alongside. In Denver at the Squeaky Bean, shrimp chips, crispy chicken skin and dehydrated dates are added to cashews and peanuts. In Dallas at FT33, guanciale is sugared and spiced and tossed with almonds and pecans. And at Restaurant Eugene in Atlanta, look for bacon caramel popcorn. — Melissa Clark
酒吧小吃2.0 饮用加有自制苦味酒和自制冰块的鸡尾酒时，需要吃点令人兴奋的东西。丹佛的Squeaky Bean餐厅，除了供应腰果和花生，还提供虾条、脆鸡皮和干枣。在达拉斯的FT33餐厅，意大利培根里加入了糖和辣椒，与杏仁和胡桃拌在一起。亚特兰大的Restaurant Eugene餐厅供应培根焦糖爆米花。——Melissa Clark
SPICED-UP DESSERTS To stay in the vanguard, pastry chefs must dig for ever more obscure spices and herbs. Grab a field guide and taste anise hyssop at Corvo Bianco, osmanthus at Betony, and wood sorrel with rhubarb and cardamom at Aska. Alma, in Los Angeles, serves a dessert of chocolate and frozen menthol; in Seattle, Joule is scooping grains-of-paradise ice cream. — Julia Moskin
调味甜品 糕点师傅要想永远领先，就必须找到更多奇怪的香料。拿起一本野外工作指南，在Corvo Bianco餐厅品尝大茴香牛藤草；在Betony餐厅品尝桂花；在Aska餐厅品尝木栗配大黄和小豆蔻。洛杉矶的Alma餐厅提供一种含巧克力和冷冻薄荷醇的甜点；在西雅图的Joule餐厅，舀一口胡椒冰激凌。——Julia Moskin
STAR DUST At Juni, Shaun Hergatt offers a silvery dish of herb and spice dust for your bread, and caviar dust has made its debut at Petrossian. Will dust be the new white truffle oil? — Florence Fabricant
明星粉 在Juni餐厅，肖恩·赫戈特(Shaun Hergatt)为你的面包提供一碟银色的草本和香料粉；鱼子酱粉在Petrossian餐厅首次亮相。粉状调料会取代白色松露油吗？——Florence Fabricant
PICKLING IN ITALIAN Pushing the boundaries of homemade pickles, chefs are making their own giardiniera. The piquant Italian vegetable mix is showing up with the lamb chops at the new Quality Italian and ramping up the relish on Marc Murphy’s burger at Kingside. — Florence Fabricant
意大利泡菜 大厨们在打破自制咸菜的传统，制作自己的泡菜。这种辛辣的意大利蔬菜什锦在新开的Quality Italian餐厅和羊排一起上桌，在Kingside餐厅为马克·墨菲(Marc Murphy)的汉堡增添滋味。——Florence Fabricant
AN ISLAND ARRIVAL Filipino food may be having its day at last, with balut-eating contests, Filipino nights at the Spotted Pig, and elevated takes on crispy pata and sinigang at restaurants outside Queens. Look for a Las Vegas opening for the Philippines-based chain Max’s, and possible permanent homes for the New Orleans pop-up Milkfish and the Brooklyn Smorgasburg vendor Lumpia Shank. — Ligaya Mishan
小岛风味 菲律宾食物也许终于有了出头之日——Spotted Pig餐厅举办了菲律宾之夜芭露特煮鸭蛋大赛，皇后区外的一些餐厅还供应脆猪腿和菲式酸汤。菲律宾连锁餐厅Max’s即将在拉斯维加斯开一家新店；新奥尔良的品牌游击店Milkfish和布鲁克林Smorgasburg跳蚤市场的摊贩Lumpia Shank可能会有固定店铺了。——Ligaya Mishan
MORE LOGS ON THE FIRE Wood-fired pizza ovens may be old hat, but wood-fueled ovens and grills are coming on strong. Chefs like Hugue Dufour at M. Wells Steakhouse and Danny Amend at Marco’s will pile on the cordwood for the rib-eye or whole turbot. — Florence Fabricant
多放些柴 柴烧披萨烤箱也许不是什么新鲜事了，但是以木头为燃料的烤箱和烤架，势头正猛。一些大厨们为了烤肋排或者整条大比目鱼会加上很多柴火，比如M. Wells Steakhouse牛排店的大厨于格·杜福尔(Hugue Dufour)和Marco’s餐厅的大厨丹尼·阿门德(Danny Amend)。——Florence Fabricant
RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED For many New Yorkers, waiting an hour or more for a table at even the most sought-after places is too much. So a growing number of restaurateurs will put your name in the book, including Joe Ogrodnek and Walker Stern of Battersby and the unnamed sibling they’re planning; Jonathan Wu and Wilson Tang of Fung Tu; and Mike Price and Joe Campanaro of the Clam. — Florence Fabricant
接受预订 很多纽约人都受不了为了得到一个桌位等一个小时或更长时间，哪怕是在最热门的餐厅。所以越来越多的餐厅老板将接受预订，包括Battersby餐厅的乔·奥格罗德奈克(Joe Ogrodnek)和沃克·斯特恩(Walker Stern)——他们计划开设的尚未命名的姐妹餐厅也将接受预订；还有Fung Tu餐厅的乔纳森·吴(Jonathan Wu)和威尔逊·唐(Wilson Tang)；Clam餐厅的麦克·普里斯(Mike Price)和乔·坎帕纳罗(Joe Campanaro)。——Florence Fabricant