The Obama team has clearly struggled with its Syria policy, but, in fairness, this is a wickedly complex problem. We need a policy response that simultaneously deters another Syrian poison gas attack, doesn’t embroil America in the Syrian civil war and also doesn’t lead to the sudden collapse of the Syrian state with all its chemical weapons, or, worse, a strengthening of the Syrian regime and its allies Hezbollah and Iran. However, I think President Obama has the wrong strategy for threading that needle. He’s seeking Congressional support for a one-time “shock and awe” missile attack against Syrian military targets. The right strategy is “arm and shame.”
奥巴马团队在叙利亚政策上显然遇到了困难，但公平地说，这个问题本身实在太复杂。我们需要的政策回应要同时做到好几件事：吓阻叙利亚政府，使其不敢再发动毒气攻击；不能把美国卷入叙利亚内战；也不能让叙利亚政府连同其化学武器突然崩溃；当然，更不能加强叙利亚政权和它的盟友黎巴嫩真主党和伊朗。但是，我认为奥巴马用来达到这一连串目的的战略是错误的。他在寻求国会支持对叙利亚军事目标发动一次性的“震慑式”导弹攻击。我认为，正确的战略应该是“武装和羞辱”。
Let me explain. Count me with the activists on the question of whether the United States should respond to the Syrian regime’s murder of some 1,400 civilians, more than 400 of them children, with poison gas. If there is no global response to this breaching of a universal taboo on using poison gas, the world will be a much more dangerous place. And only America can spearhead a credible response: Russia and China have rendered the United Nations Security Council meaningless; Europe is a military museum; the Arab League is worthless; all others are spectators. We are out front — alone. We may not want to be, but here we are. So we must lead.
让我来解释一下。叙利亚政权用毒气杀害了约1400名平民，其中有400多名儿童，在美国应否对此做出回应的问题上，我站在支持采取行动的阵营。使用毒气犯了全世界的大忌，如果国际社会不做出回应，这个世界将会变得更加危险。目前只有美国可以领头，做出靠谱的回应：俄罗斯和中国已经让联合国安理会失去了意义，欧洲就像一个军事博物馆，阿拉伯国家联盟毫无价值；其他人全是观众。所以我们现在是独自站在了最前面。我们也许并不想出头，但这是现实。所以我们必须领头。
But upholding this norm in the context of the Syrian civil war is not a simple matter. Start with the fact that probably the only way to produce a unified, pluralistic, multisectarian Syria is for an international army to come in, take over the country, monopolize all weaponry and referee a long transition to consensual rule. Syrians can’t forge that on their own now. But such a force is not possible in this century, and Iraq demonstrated how hard it is for even that option to work.
但是，在叙利亚内战的背景下，做到这一点可不是那么简单。首先是这样一个事实，让叙利亚变得统一、多元化、包容各派的唯一办法，可能是组织一支国际部队去攻占这个国家，接手对这个国家的管治，收缴所有的武器装备，并监督一段漫长的过渡期，直到该国实现共识统治。叙利亚人自己现在做不到这一点。但是在这个世纪是不可能组织起这样的国际部队的，而且伊拉克的例子也显示，就连这种做法也难以奏效。
Thus, the most likely option for Syria is some kind of de facto partition, with the pro-Assad, predominantly Alawite Syrians controlling one region and the Sunni and Kurdish Syrians controlling the rest. But the Sunnis are themselves divided between the pro-Western, secular Free Syrian Army, which we’d like to see win, and the pro-Islamist and pro-Al Qaeda jihadist groups, like the Nusra Front, which we’d like to see lose.
因此，对叙利亚来说，最有可能的做法就是实现某种事实上的分区而治：主要由阿拉维派构成的亲阿萨德叙利亚人控制一个区域，逊尼派和库尔德叙利亚人控制剩下的区域。但逊尼派本身又分为亲西方的、世俗的“叙利亚自由军”(Free Syrian Army)以及伊斯兰主义倾向、与“基地”组织为伍的圣战组织，比如努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)。我们希望看到前者获胜，后者失败。
That’s why I think the best response to the use of poison gas by President Bashar al-Assad is not a cruise missile attack on Assad’s forces, but an increase in the training and arming of the Free Syrian Army — including the antitank and antiaircraft weapons it’s long sought. This has three virtues: 1) Better arming responsible rebels units, and they do exist, can really hurt the Assad regime in a sustained way — that is the whole point of deterrence — without exposing America to global opprobrium for bombing Syria; 2) Better arming the rebels actually enables them to protect themselves more effectively from this regime; 3) Better arming the rebels might increase the influence on the ground of the more moderate opposition groups over the jihadist ones — and eventually may put more pressure on Assad, or his allies, to negotiate a political solution.
这就是为什么我认为对巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)使用毒气的最好回应，不是用巡航导弹打击其部队，而是更好地训练和武装叙利亚自由军——包括它长期寻求获得的反坦克武器和防空武器。这样做有三个好处：1）更好地武装负责任的叛军（这样的队伍确实存在），可以真正以持续方式打击阿萨德政权（这是威慑的全部意义），同时又不会让美国因为轰炸叙利亚而遭到全世界的谴责；2）更好地武装叛军，可以让他们更有效地防御阿萨德政权的打击；3）更好地武装叛军，可能会增加比较温和的反对派在战场上相对于圣战组织的影响力——并且最终可能给阿萨德或他的盟友造成更大的压力，让他们谈判达成一个政治解决方案。
By contrast, just limited bombing of Syria from the air makes us look weak at best, even if we hit targets. And if we kill lots of Syrians, it enables Assad to divert attention from the 1,400 he has gassed to death to those we harmed. Also, who knows what else our bombing of Syria could set in motion. (Would Iran decide it must now rush through a nuclear bomb?)
相比之下，从空中对叙利亚进行有限的轰炸，即使我们命中目标，最多也只能让我们看上去软弱无力。如果我们炸死了大量叙利亚人，阿萨德正好可以把世人的注意力从他毒杀的1400多人上转移到我们炸死的人上。另外，谁也不知道我们轰炸叙利亚会引发什么事。（伊朗会不会得出结论认为，它现在必须赶紧造出核弹？）
But our response must not stop there.
但是，我们的回应不能仅限于此。
We need to use every diplomatic tool we have to shame Assad, his wife, Asma, his murderous brother Maher and every member of his cabinet or military whom we can identify as being involved in this gas attack. We need to bring their names before the United Nations Security Council for condemnation. We need to haul them before the International Criminal Court. We need to make them famous. We need to metaphorically put their pictures up in every post office in the world as people wanted for crimes against humanity.
我们还需要利用我们掌握的一切外交工具来羞辱阿萨德，他的妻子阿斯玛(Asma)，他凶残的弟弟马希尔(Maher)，以及他的内阁或军队中每一个我们可以确定参与了毒气攻击的成员。我们需要把他们的名字提交联合国安理会进行谴责，需要把他们告上国际刑事法院。我们需要“让他们出名”。打个比方说，我们需要把他们的照片张贴在世界上每一个邮局，作为反人类罪犯来通缉。
Yes, there’s little chance of them being brought to justice now, but do not underestimate how much of a deterrent it can be for the world community to put the mark of Cain on their foreheads so they know that they and their families can never again travel anywhere except to North Korea, Iran and Vladimir Putin’s dacha. It might even lead some of Assad’s supporters to want to get rid of him and seek a political deal.
没错，现在几乎没有可能让他们接受正义的审判，但是不要低估了这个做法的威慑力：让国际社会把罪犯的标记打在他们的额头，让他们知道除了朝鲜、伊朗和普京的别墅之外，他们和家人再也去不了其他任何地方。这么做甚至可能会让阿萨德的一些支持者希望摆脱他，寻求某种政治交易。
When we alone just bomb Syria to defend “our” red line, we turn the rest of the world into spectators — many of whom will root against us. When we shame the people who perpetrated this poison gas attack, we can summon the rest of the world, maybe even inspire them, to join us in redrawing this red line, as a moral line and, therefore, a global line. It is easy for Putin, China and Iran to denounce American bombing, but much harder for them to defend Syrian use of weapons of mass destruction, so let’s force them to choose. Best of all, a moral response — a shaming — can be an unlimited response, not a limited one.
当我们只是为了捍卫“我们的”红线才独自轰炸叙利亚时，我们就把世界上的其他人都变成了观众——其中许多人会反对我们，而当我们羞辱那些使用化学武器的人，我们可以获得世界上其他人的支持，甚至有可能激励他们加入我们的行列，重新绘制这条红线，使其成为一个道德标准，进而成为一条全球认可的红线。普京、中国和伊朗要谴责美国轰炸很容易，但他们要为叙利亚使用大规模杀伤性武器辩解就困难多了，那么，我们就迫使他们做出选择吧。最妙的是，以羞辱为形式的道德回应，有可能是无限的回应，而不是有限的回应。
A limited, transactional cruise missile attack meets Obama’s need to preserve his credibility. But it also risks changing the subject from Assad’s behavior to ours and — rather than empowering the rebels to act and enlisting the world to act — could make us owners of this story in ways that we do not want. “Arm and shame” is how we best help the decent forces in Syria, deter further use of poison gas, isolate Assad and put real pressure on him or others around him to cut a deal. Is it perfect? No, but perfect is not on the menu in Syria.
发动一场有限的、完成任务式的巡航导弹打击，符合奥巴马维护自己可信度的需要，但它也可能把世人的注意力从阿萨德的作为吸引到我们的作为上——而不是提升叛军的实力，并动员全世界一起行动，从而让我们在这件事中扮演自己不想要的角色，而“武装和羞辱”的做法，可以让我们最有效地帮助叙利亚国内像样的势力，阻止政府军进一步使用毒气，孤立阿萨德，并给他和他身边的人施加真正的压力，迫使他们接受和谈。这个方式完美吗？不完美，但叙利亚问题的菜单上没有完美这一项。