SITTWE, Myanmar — The Myanmar government has given the estimated one million Rohingya people in this coastal region of the country a dispiriting choice: Prove your family has lived here for more than 60 years and qualify for second-class citizenship, or be placed in camps and face deportation.
缅甸实兑——这片沿海地区估计生活着100万罗辛亚人。缅甸政府给了他们一个令人沮丧的选择：证明你的家族居住在此地的时间超过60年，从而符合二等公民的资格，或者就待在营地里，等着被驱逐出境。
The policy, accompanied by a wave of decrees and legislation, has made life for the Rohingya, a long-persecuted Muslim minority, ever more desperate, spurring the biggest flow of Rohingya refugees since a major exodus two years ago.
这项政策，连同一系列政令和法律，让长期遭受迫害的穆斯林少数族群罗辛亚人的生活，变得更令人绝望，并引发了自两年前的那次大逃离以来，规模最大的罗辛亚难民潮。
In the last three weeks alone, 14,500 Rohingya have sailed from the beaches of Rakhine State to Thailand, with the ultimate goal of reaching Malaysia, according to the Arakan Project, a group that monitors Rohingya refugees.
监测罗辛亚难民情况的组织“若开项目”(Arakan Project)称，仅在过去三周，便有1.45万罗辛亚人从若开邦的海滩乘船前往泰国。他们最终的目的地是马来西亚。
The crisis has become an embarrassment to the White House ahead of a scheduled visit by President Obama to Myanmar next week. The administration considers Myanmar a foreign-policy success story in Asia but is worried that renewed conflict between Buddhist extremists, who are given a free hand by the government, and the Rohingya could derail the already rocky transition from military rule to democratic reform.
按计划，奥巴马总统将于下周（本文最初发表于2014年11月6日）访问缅甸。发生在总统访缅前的这场危机，让白宫处境尴尬。奥巴马政府视缅甸为其外交政策在亚洲取得的成功，但担心被政府纵容的佛教极端分子与罗辛亚人之间再次爆发冲突，从而可能会破坏从军政府统治到民主改革的转型。而这个转型本就已经困难重重。
Mr. Obama called President Thein Sein of Myanmar last week, urging him to address the “tensions and humanitarian situation in Rakhine State,” the White House said.
白宫称，奥巴马上周致电缅甸总统登盛（Thein Sein，又译吴登盛），敦促对方处理“若开邦的紧张局势和人道主义问题”。
In his most public appeal to the government yet, Mr. Obama asked the Myanmar leader to revise the anti-Rohingya policies, specifically the resettlement plan. Myanmar must “support the civil and political rights of the Rohingya population,” he said.
奥巴马请登盛修正其反罗辛亚人政策，特别是那项移居计划。他说，缅甸必须“支持罗辛亚人的公民和政治权利”。这是迄今为止，奥巴马向缅甸政府发出的最公开的呼吁。
The Rohingya have faced discrimination for decades. They have been denied citizenship, evicted from their homes, had their land confiscated and been attacked by the military. After one such attack in 1978, some 200,000 fled to Bangladesh.
数十年来，罗辛亚人一直备受歧视。他们没有公民身份，被赶出家园，土地被没收，还遭到军方的攻击。在1978年的一次这类攻击过后，约有20万罗辛亚人逃至孟加拉国。
The latest flare-up began with an outbreak of sectarian rioting in 2012, in which hundreds of Rohingya were killed and dozens of their villages burned to the ground by radical Buddhists. Since then, close to 100,000 have fled the country, and more than 100,000 have been confined to squalid camps, forbidden to leave.
距今最近的这次冲突，始于2012年爆发的宗派骚乱。在骚乱中，数百名罗辛亚人被极端的佛教徒杀害，几十个罗辛亚村庄被烧为灰烬。自那时以来，已有近10万罗辛亚人逃离缅甸，并有超过10万人沦落到脏乱的营地里，被禁止离开。
As conditions in the camps have deteriorated, international pressure has mounted on the government to find a humane solution. Instead, the government appears to be accelerating a strategy that human rights groups have described as ethnic cleansing.
随着营地条件的恶化，国际社会对缅甸政府施压，要求该国找到一个人道的解决办法。但其政府似乎正在加快一项被人权组织称为种族清洗的策略。
For many Rohingya, the new policy, called the Rakhine Action Plan, represents a kind of final humiliation, said Mohamed Saeed, a community organizer in a camp on the edge of Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine State.
在位于若开邦首府实兑边缘的一处营地里，社区组织者穆罕默德·赛义德(Mohamed Saeed)表示，对许多罗辛亚人而言，名为若开邦行动计划(Rakhine Action Plan)的新政策代表着莫大的耻辱。
“People really fear this plan,” he said. “Our community is getting less and less. This is where they want us — out.”
“人们真的害怕这个计划，”他说。“我们社区的人越来越少。这正是他们想要的结果：让我们离开。”
Many Rohingya came to Myanmar in the 19th century when the British ruled all of what is now India, Bangladesh and Myanmar, formerly known as Burma. But the government’s demand for proof of residence since 1948 is too onerous for many, who either do not have the paperwork or fall short of the six-decade requirement, human rights advocates say.
19世纪，在英国统治着现在的印度、孟加拉国和缅甸时，许多罗辛亚人来到了缅甸。但人权倡导人士称，对许多人而言，提供1948年以后的居住证明的这一政府要求，很难达到，因为他们要么没有相关文件，要么达不到60年的要求。
Those who can prove their residence qualify only for naturalized citizenship, which carries fewer rights than full citizenship and can be revoked. Moreover, they would be classified as “Bengali,” rather than Rohingya, suggesting that they are immigrants from Bangladesh and leaving open the possibility of deportation.
能提供居住证明的那些人，只有入籍公民资格。入籍公民身份享有的权利少于完全公民身份，并且可被取消。此外，他们可能会被归为“孟加拉人”，而非罗辛亚人，表明他们是来自孟加拉国的移民，从而可能在未来被驱逐出境。
Under the plan, those Rohingya who cannot meet the standards for naturalized citizenship or refuse to accept the Bengali designation would be placed in camps before being deported.
根据该计划，不满足入籍公民身份的要求，或拒绝接受被定为孟加拉人的那些罗辛亚人，将被安置在营地里，然后再被驱逐出境。
Human Rights Watch described the plan as “nothing less than a blueprint for permanent segregation and statelessness.”
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)称该计划“完全是永久性种族隔离和剥夺国籍的蓝图”。
For many, the high-risk boat trips to Thailand en route to Malaysia, a Muslim country that quietly tolerates the refugees, begin at a gray sandy beach at Ohn Taw Shi, a fishing village fringed by coconut trees on the outskirts of a camp for the displaced.
对许多人来说，取道泰国、前往默许罗辛亚难民流入的穆斯林国家马来西亚的高风险海上之旅，是从渔村诺杜希的一片灰色沙滩开始的。四周环绕着椰子树的这个渔村，位于一处营地的边缘地带。该营地圈禁着被迫流离失所的罗辛亚人。
On a recent day, a froth of waves lapped the shore, a few open wooden boats lay untended, waiting for use at night. The police slept in the afternoon heat in a wooden shack about 500 yards away.
前不久的一天，波涛拍打着海岸，几艘无人照看的无甲板木船停靠在岸边，等着在夜里投入使用。约莫500码（约合460米）开外的一处木屋里，警察在午后的炎热中睡着了。
A smuggler, Chan Thet Maung, a cellphone hooked to his pants and earplugs dangling from his neck, said that when the wooden boats were filled with Rohingya, they sailed north for about five hours to connect with larger vessels. There, in waters off the Myanmar-Bangladesh border, multideck boats sometimes idle for days or weeks, manned by armed and often brutal crews, waiting for a full complement of passengers bound for Thailand, the United Nations refugee agency said in an internal report.
蛇头钱代芒(Chan Thet Maung)的裤子上别着手机，耳塞从脖子上垂下来。他说，木船坐满罗辛亚人后，他们会往北开五个小时左右，搭上大船。联合国难民署的一份内部报告称，在离缅甸与孟加拉国的海上边界不远处，有着多层甲板的大船有时会漂上几天或几周时间，等待装满想要前往泰国的乘客，而船员会配备武器，往往相当残暴。
The annual smuggling season, which begins in early October when the monsoon season ends, got off to a fast start, the smuggler said. The police wanted $2,000 — $100 for each of the 20 passengers — for a recent boatload, but the smugglers had offered slightly less, he said.
每年的偷渡时节开始于10月初雨季结束的时候，蛇头钱代芒表示，今年开局迅速。根据他的说法，警方给近期的一船20名乘客的开价是每人100美元（约合610元人民币），但蛇头的出价要稍低。
The trip was aborted, but another attempt would be made soon, he said.
他说，这趟航程取消了，但很快会有下一次的尝试。
Local officials abet the smuggling trips, according to Matthew Smith, the director of Fortify Rights, an organization that studies ethnic groups in Myanmar.
“巩固人权”(Fortify Rights)的负责人马修·史密斯(Matthew Smith)称，当地的官员助长了偷渡活动。该组织正在研究缅甸的少数族裔问题。
“The regional trafficking and smuggling begins with the complicity of Myanmar authorities,” he said. “We’ve documented Myanmar police and armed forces taking payments as high as 7 million kyat in return for a boat’s passage to sea.” Seven million kyat is approximately $7,000.
“这一地区的人口贩卖和偷渡始于缅甸当局的串谋，”他说。“我们掌握的证据表明，缅甸警方和武装力量为放行船只去往海上收受钱财，每艘至多700万缅元。”700万缅元约合4.3万元人民币。
In some cases, the Myanmar Navy escorted boats filled with fleeing Rohingya and operated by criminal gangs out to international waters, Mr. Smith said.
史密斯称，在某些案例里，缅甸海军还护送由犯罪集团操控的装满罗辛亚逃难者的船只去往国际海域。
Most Rohingya who want to leave the camps or the villages in northern Rakhine pay brokers $200 just to board a boat. Once in Thailand, the refugees must pay smugglers an additional $2,000 for the second leg to Malaysia.
多数希望离开营地或若开邦北部村庄的罗辛亚人会给中间人200美元，仅仅作为上船的费用。到了泰国以后，难民还必须再付给蛇头2000美元，才能继续前往马来西亚的行程。
Some, like Nor Rankis, 25, who said she wanted to join her estranged husband and brother in Malaysia, do not pay anything, an almost certain sign she will be sold into servitude by traffickers in Thailand.
有些人并没有付钱，比如25岁的诺兰吉(Nor Rankis)。她说自己希望能与在马来西亚的兄弟及分居的丈夫团聚。可是，没有付钱几乎肯定意味着，她将被泰国的人贩卖出去，受人奴役。
“I don’t want to live here; I cannot survive,” she said one evening as she waited for a smuggler to take her away. She had packed a few things in a pink plastic basket: a bottle of perfume, a new sarong and a box of vitamins — though nothing to protect her against the equatorial sun that would beat down on her across the Bay of Bengal.
“我不想在这里生活；活不下去了，”那天晚上，她在等待蛇头把她送走时说道。她在一只粉色塑料篮子里装了几样要带走的东西：一瓶香水、一件新的纱笼和一盒维生素。里面却没有东西可以让她穿过孟加拉湾时抵挡头顶直射而下的热带阳光。
A spokesman for Rakhine State insisted the Rohingya did not belong in Myanmar and defended the Rakhine Action Plan as necessary because the higher Muslim birthrate threatened the Buddhist majority.
若开邦的一名发言人坚称罗辛亚人不属于缅甸，并辩称若开行动计划是必要之举，因为穆斯林的高生育率威胁到了人口占多数的佛教徒。
“There are no Rohingya under the law,” said the spokesman, U Win Myaing, assistant director of the Ministry of Information. “They are illegal immigrants. If they need labor in the United Arab Emirates, why don’t they ask people to go there?”
“法律上并不存在罗辛亚人，”这名发言人温棉(Win Myaing)说。他在信息部任助理部长。“他们是非法移民。如果他们阿联酋需要劳动力，干嘛不让人去那里？”
Some government officials have described the Rakhine Action Plan as a draft proposal, rather than official policy. But the government has already begun to carry out the plan in at least one camp, Myebon, 60 miles south of Sittwe.
一些政府官员将若开行动计划描述为草案，而非正式的政策。不过，政府至少已在一座营地——实兑以南60英里（约合100公里）的弥蓬——开展这项计划。
In a gesture in advance of Mr. Obama’s visit, the government released 15 political prisoners in early October, including three Rohingya. Among them was U Kyaw Hla Aung, 75, a prominent lawyer, who was jailed after the violence in Sittwe in 2012.
奥巴马来访之前，缅甸政府做出姿态，于10月初释放了15名政治犯，包括三名罗辛亚人。其中之一是75岁的著名律师觉拉昂(Kyaw Hla Aung)。2012年实兑爆发暴力事件后，他身陷囹圄。
One of the few Rohingya trained as a lawyer — Rohingya have since been barred from studying law or medicine — Mr. Kyaw Hla Aung said that it was illogical for the government to insist that Rohingya were not citizens.
觉拉昂是少数受过法学专业训练的罗辛亚人，后来他们就一直被禁止研习法律或医学。他说，政府坚称罗辛亚人非缅甸公民是不合逻辑的。