The parents of Otto F. Warmbier, the American student detained by North Korea who died shortly after he had been flown home comatose in June, said Tuesday that he had been tortured, describing his captors as “terrorists.”
曾被朝鲜拘押的美国学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)的父母周二称他曾遭严刑拷打，并称抓他的人是“恐怖分子”。今年6月，瓦姆比尔在昏迷中被飞机运回国，不久后去世。
In an interview on the “Fox & Friends” morning news program, their first since Mr. Warmbier died three months ago, Fred and Cindy Warmbier of Cincinnati provided previously undisclosed details on the injuries to their son, 22, a University of Virginia undergraduate.
在接受早间新闻节目《福克斯和朋友们》(Fox & Friends)的采访时，生活在辛辛那提的弗雷德和辛迪·瓦姆比尔(Fred and Cindy Warmbier)给出了一些此前未披露的关于他们22岁的儿子伤势的细节。这是自瓦姆比尔三个月前去世后，他们首次接受采访。瓦姆比尔生前是弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)的一名本科生。
The Warmbiers said they had decided to speak out now partly because they were aghast at efforts by the North Korean government to portray itself as the victim of United States aggression in the unfolding crisis over the North’s nuclear weapons and missile testing.
瓦姆比尔夫妇说，他们决定现在说出来在一定程度上是因为，他们被朝鲜政府在围绕其核武器和导弹试验展开的危机中，为把自己描绘成美国侵略的受害者而采取的种种举动惊呆。
“We’re here to tell you North Korea is not a victim,” Fred Warmbier said. “They’re terrorists. They kidnapped Otto, tortured him, they intentionally injured him.”
“我们在这里告诉大家，朝鲜不是受害者，”弗雷德·瓦姆比尔说。“他们是恐怖分子。他们绑架了奥托，拷打他，故意让他受伤。”
North Korean officials have said Mr. Warmbier was released on humanitarian grounds and had been treated respectfully. They attributed his state of near-death to sleeping pills and botulism poisoning, a conclusion that his American doctors could not corroborate.
朝鲜官员称释放瓦姆比尔是出于人道主义，并表示他受到了妥善的治疗。他们把他接近死亡的状态归咎于安眠药和肉毒中毒。瓦姆比尔在美国医生无法证实这个结论。
Mr. Warmbier was seized from a tour group while visiting North Korea in January 2016, convicted of trying to steal a propaganda poster and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor, a punishment that the United States and much of the world called egregious.
2016年1月，瓦姆比尔在朝鲜跟团旅游期间被抓，以试图偷取一张宣传海报的罪由判处15年劳役。美国和全球很多国家均称这一处罚过于严厉。
His parents were never able to speak with him and learned that he would be returned home for medical reasons only shortly before it had been arranged. He died within a week of his homecoming.
他的父母从来没能够和他通话，在相关事宜安排好之前没多久，他们才得知因为健康原因他将被送回家。回家不到一周，瓦姆比尔去世。
His 17-month-long incarceration added an emotional undercurrent to the hostile relationship between North Korea and the United States and played a role in the Trump administration’s decision to bar Americans from visiting the country as of Sept. 1. President Trump also mentioned Mr. Warmbier in his United Nations General Assembly speech last week in which he warned that North Korea risked destruction.
对瓦姆比尔长达17个月的关押为朝美之间的敌对关系增添了一股潜在的情绪，并在特朗普政府决定从9月1日其禁止美国公民前往朝鲜一事中发挥了作用。上周在联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)上发表讲话时，特朗普总统还提到了瓦姆比尔。他在讲话中警告称，朝鲜在拿自己被毁灭冒险。
Mr. Warmbier’s parents said that they had been warned in the hours before his arrival that their son was in a coma and had suffered brain damage, but that they and their two other children were unprepared for what they saw when they boarded the aircraft that had carried him home on June 13.
瓦姆比尔的父母说，在儿子抵达前的几个小时里，他们收到警告，得知儿子处于昏迷状态，脑部受到损伤，但他们另外两个孩子对6月13日登上搭载瓦姆比尔的那架飞机后看到的情况毫无准备。
“Otto had a shaved head, he had a feeding tube coming out of his nose, he was staring blankly into space jerking violently,” the father said. “He was blind, he was deaf. As we looked at him and tried to comfort him, it looked as if somebody had taken a pair of pliers and rearranged his bottom teeth.”
“奥托被剃了光头，鼻子里插着一根喂食管，他茫然地盯着前方，剧烈抽搐，”父亲说。“他看不见，也听不见。在我们看着他，试着安慰他时，看起来像是有人拿钳子调整过他的下牙。”
He also had a large scar on his right foot, Mr. Warmbier said, and within a few days of his arrival had developed a 104-degree fever.
瓦姆比尔的父亲说，他右脚上有一道很大的伤疤，并且回家几天后，出现了104度（约合40摄氏度）的高烧。
“They destroyed him,” Cindy Warmbier said.
“他们毁了他，”辛迪·瓦姆比尔说。
Doctors from the University of Cincinnati Medical Center who treated Otto Warmbier said upon his arrival that he had suffered “extensive loss of brain tissue” and “severe neurological injury” while in North Korea, but that his vital signs had been stable and that he had shown no sign of infection.
辛辛那提大学医疗中心(University of Cincinnati Medical Center)治疗瓦姆比尔的医生在他抵达时说，他在朝鲜期间“脑组织大面积损毁”，且“神经受损严重”，但生命特征稳定，没有表现出感染的迹象。
Amanda Nageleisen, a spokeswoman for the medical center, declined to comment on the Warmbiers’ description of their son’s condition.
该医疗中心的发言人阿曼达·纳格莱森(Amanda Nageleisen)不愿就瓦姆比尔夫妇对他们儿子情况的描述发表评论。
The Warmbiers also expressed astonishment that North Korea was not on the State Department’s roster of state sponsors of terrorism, a designation that subjects the listed countries to special financial and military sanctions. Iran, Sudan and Syria are on the list.
瓦姆比尔夫妇还对朝鲜不在美国国务院制定的支持恐怖主义国家名单上表示震惊。被认定为支持恐怖主义的国家会受到特殊的金融和军事制裁。伊朗、苏丹和叙利亚均在该名单上。
The Bush administration removed North Korea from the list in 2008 when North Korea signaled that it would permit nuclear inspections. Trump administration officials have said they are reviewing whether North Korea will again be placed on the list.
2008年朝鲜释放出允许进行核检查的信号时，布什政府把朝鲜移出了该名单。特朗普政府的官员称，他们正在考虑是否再次将朝鲜列入该名单。