We frequently hear complaints about how people near the end of life are treated in America. Patients are attached to tubes and machines and subjected to too many invasive procedures. Death occurs too frequently in the hospital, rather than at home, where they can be surrounded by loved ones. And it is way too expensive. Each year, the care of dying seniors consumes over 25 percent of Medicare’s expenditures.
我们经常听到对美国临终患者治疗的抱怨。患者身上插着各色胶管，身陷医疗器械的包围之中，被施以过多的开刀手术。比起留在家中得到亲人陪伴，发生在医院的死亡要更频繁，并且昂贵得多。每年，临终年长患者的治疗，要花费美国联邦医疗保险(Medicare)逾25%的支出。
Death in America is frequently compared unfavorably with death in other countries, where people may not be as focused on extending life with every possible intervention. As Ian Morrison, the former president of the Institute for the Future, once wrote: “The Scots see death as imminent. Canadians see death as inevitable. And Californians see death as optional.” He added, “Americans and the American health care system are uncomfortable with the inevitability of mortality.”
美国的死亡案例常被和其他国家的进行不利的比较。在那些国家，人们也许没有那么极尽所能地关注如何延续生存时间。正如未来研究所(Institute for the Future)前所长伊恩·莫里森(Ian Morrison)曾经写到，“苏格兰人将死亡视作迫在眉睫。加拿大人认为死亡在所难免。而美国加州人觉得死亡是可选项。”他接着说道，“美国人和美国的医疗体系无法忍受死亡是在所难免的。”
But is it actually true that end-of-life care in America is more invasive and expensive than in other countries?
但是美国的临终关怀真的比其他国家要更具侵袭性、更昂贵吗？
Today we published in the Journal of the American Medical Association the first systematic international comparison of end-of-life care for patients dying with cancer. We focused on cancer because, in developed countries, it is the second leading cause of death and the most expensive per patient. The good news is that, despite perceptions, the United States is actually not the worst when it comes to caring for these patients. In fact, on some important measures, we provide the best in end-of-life care.
今天，我们在《美国医学会杂志》(The Journal of the American Medical Association)发表了一篇文章，首次系统地比较了各国对癌症患者的临终关怀。我们关注癌症患者，是因为在发达国家，这是患者花费最巨、导致死亡的第二大原因。好消息是，与成见相反，美国实际上在临终关怀上做的还不是最差的。事实上，就某些重要的标准来看，我们提供的是最好的临终治疗。
We found that in 2010, the most recent year with available data, just 22 percent of Americans dying with cancer died in the hospital, a lower rate than in Canada, England, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, the six other nations we studied. (If we include patients dying in skilled nursing facilities, the rate rises but is still under 30 percent.) Similarly, in the last six months of life, Americans spent the fewest days in the hospital, on average about a week and a half, compared with nearly four weeks in some other countries.
我们发现，在有数据可查的最近年份2010年，只有22%的美国人在医院因癌症去世，该比例比我们研究的其他六个国家都低，包括加拿大、英国、挪威、荷兰、比利时和德国在内（若囊括在专业护理设施过世的病人，该比例有所上升，但依然低于30%）。无独有偶，在生命的最后六个月里，美国人在医院度过的时间最少，平均约为一周半；在其他一些国家，这一数据为近四周。
In Canada, 52 percent of patients with cancer died in the hospital, and in the last six months of life, nearly 90 percent were admitted to the hospital for an average of around three weeks.
在加拿大，52%的癌症患者在医院过世，在生命的最后六个月里，接近九成入院治疗，平均收治三周左右。
But in other areas, the United States doesn’t look so good. Take admissions to the intensive care unit. In 2010, over 40 percent of Americans dying with cancer were admitted to the I.C.U. in the last six months of life — more than double any of the other countries we studied. On average, Americans dying with cancer spent twice as many days in the I.C.U. as patients from any other country.
但在其他方面，美国的情况看上去不妙。譬如重症监护病房(ICU)的收治。2010年，超过40%美国癌症晚期患者，在生命的最后六个月内被收入重症病房，比我们研究的所有国家都要高出一倍。与其它国家相比，美国癌症晚期患者在重症病房的时间有两倍之久。
Similarly, Americans received more chemotherapy near the end of life, even though research shows that it may not improve the quality or length of life at that point. In their last six months, nearly 40 percent of Americans received at least one episode of chemotherapy. Only Belgium came close to this figure, at 33 percent.
同样，美国患者在晚期接受更多的化疗。即使研究显示，在该阶段，化疗在延长生命，或提高生命质量上已无济于事。在生命的最后六个月，接近四成美国患者接受过至少一期的化疗。只有比利时的数据与之相仿，约为33%。
Perhaps most surprising, America was not the most expensive country in which to die. On average, $21,840 was spent on the last six months of hospital-related care for dying cancer patients in Canada and $19,783 in Norway. In the United States, the bill was $18,500 per patient. (That figure does not include physician costs, which are part of hospital spending in other nations. Including them brings America’s costs up by about 10 percent, leaving us still below Canada and about equal with Norway.)
也许最让人感到意外的是，死在美国的成本并非最高。在加拿大，临终癌症病人在生命最后六个月的平均开销是21840美元，在挪威是19783美元。在美国，每个病人的开销是18500美元。（其中不包括医生的费用，而在其他国家，这部分费用是计入医院支出的。如果加入医生费用，美国的成本会上升大约10%，依然比加拿大低，和挪威大致相当。）
So what can be learned from our study? First, all countries have room to improve. In the United States, the next step needs to be empowering patients to make realistic choices that are consistent with their hopes for how they want to live near the end of life and where they want to die. This means having the candid conversations about when chemotherapy or I.C.U. admissions are no longer helpful, and increasing palliative care, which has been shown to improve both the quality and length of life. This can best be achieved by making access to palliative care the default, instead of just an option, for all patients with advanced and incurable cancer.
那么从我们的研究中可以得到什么？首先，所有国家都有改善的空间。在美国，下一步应该是让病人有机会做出现实的选择，在自己希望的地方，以自己希望的方式，度过人生最后时光。这就意味着需要坦率地讨论化疗或重症监护是否已经不再有意义，并应增加缓和疗护，这经证明可以提高生活质量、延长生命。要实现这一点，最好的办法是把缓和疗护作为所有晚期和不治癌症病人的默认方案，而不仅仅是一个选项。
Our study also has implications for cost control. It shows that end-of-life care is not the main contributor to higher health care costs in the United States; some countries with considerably lower overall costs still spend more on end-of-life care. So as the nation works to slow the growth of American health care spending, the focus should be less on reducing end-of-life spending and more on moving away from fee-for-service medicine, which incentivizes more care rather than better care.
我们的研究还得出了成本控制方面的结论。从中可以看到，临终关怀并非美国医疗费用趋高的主要促因；一些在整体费用上低很多的国家，在临终关怀上的支出要更高。因此，在美国在努力减缓医疗支出增长速度的时候，应该少把注意力放在减少临终关怀支出上，更多地致力于摒弃“按项目付费”的医疗，因为这种方式只会刺激更多的疗护，而不是更好的疗护。
Last, and most important, there is a reason for hope. While the process has been slow, the United States has improved care at the end of life. In the mid-1980s, more than 70 percent of American patients who died with cancer did so in the hospital. We have cut that number by over two-thirds. And the use of chemotherapy near the end of life, while still high, is also lower than in the past. Interestingly, the trends we observed suggest improvement in what the United States does well, but also some worsening in using the I.C.U. more.
最后，也是最重要的一点，我们不应放弃希望。虽然进度缓慢，美国在临终关怀方面是有改善的。在1980年代中期，死于癌症的美国病患超过70%是在医院去世的。我们已经把这个比例减少了三分之二以上。在临终阶段的化疗使用上，比例依然很高，但也比过去低了。有意思的是，我们观察到的趋势表明，美国在自己做得好的领域有提高，但是重症监护的使用增多是一个恶化的地方。
But we can and should do better. We should start by providing universal access to the highest-quality palliative care as the default for all Americans near the end of life.
但是我们可以也应该做得更好。首先我们应该提供全民适用的高品质缓和疗护，作为所有临终美国人的默认方案。