Future writing project: a topography of paradise in the medieval Muslim imagination. But not only medieval, for among Muslims today paradise is also at the center of political discourse, sermons and the contemporary imagination. Paradise as a goal for the individual or the group has gradually replaced the dreams of development, stability and wealth promised by postwar decolonization in the so-called Arab world. These days, one imagines happy tomorrows only after death, not before.
将来的写作任务：描述中世纪时穆斯林想象中的天堂。但不仅仅是中世纪，因为在现如今的穆斯林中，天堂也是政治讨论、布道和当代想象的核心。在人们所说的阿拉伯世界里，天堂作为个人或穆斯林这个群体的目标，逐渐取代了战后去殖民化许诺的发展、稳定和财富的梦想。如今，人们只会想象死后，而非在世时的美好未来。
“Paradise decks itself in delights,” an editorial writer mused in an Algerian Islamist newspaper during the most recent Ramadan, the month of fasting. The declaration was followed by descriptions of the charms, the delights, the joys that await the faithful after death. This fantasy of paradise, amply depicted as a place of pleasures, with sex and wine, golden adornments and silk apparel, is the opposite of earthly life — and of the frustrations experienced in Arab countries afflicted by economic failures, wars and bloody dictatorships.
在上个斋月期间，一名社论作者在阿尔及利亚的一份伊斯兰派报纸上若有所思地写道，“天堂用欢乐装饰自己。”紧接着，作者描述了那些等着忠实的信徒死后去享受的美妙、欢乐和喜悦。根据大量描述，人们幻想中的天堂是一个充满快乐、可以纵情享受性爱和美酒、穿金戴银的地方。那里和尘世的生活，和深受经济衰退、战争和血腥独裁统治之痛的阿拉伯国家所经历的沮丧截然相反。
Firdaus (a remote ancestor of the word “paradise,” derived from the Persian) was promised by the Quran and has been abundantly described in religious literature for centuries. But in recent years, paradise has also become the country dreamed of by the poor, the unemployed, the believer — and the jihadist, thanks to certain religious elites who promote it as a means of recruitment.
《古兰经》(Quran)许诺了Firdaus（“paradise”一词在很久之前的原型，源自波斯语）。千百年来，宗教文献对其进行了大量的描述。但最近几年，天堂也成了穷人、失业者和信徒梦想的国度，并且因为某些宗教精英将其作为一种招兵买马的工具来进行宣传，它也成为了圣战主义者的梦想。
This is a fascinating renewal of the concept of happiness that was dominant a half-century ago. Back then, the countries of the Maghreb and the Middle East — born out of decolonization often violently wrested from occupying forces that had imposed on them war, poverty and misery — advocated for a vision of the future based on independence, egalitarianism, development, wealth creation, justice and coexistence.
这是半个世纪前那种占统治地位的幸福概念，以一种别开生面的形式再次兴起。那时，马格里布和中东地区的国家——通常是通过暴力手段，摆脱了迫使它们经受战争、贫穷和痛苦的占领者，实现去殖民化并由此建国——倡导建立一个以独立、平等主义、发展、财富创造、公平及和平共处为基础的未来的愿景。
That vision of utopia within human reach, which was taken up by some monarchies, was a shared political dream, and it gave legitimacy to those new regimes in the eyes of both their own peoples and foreign governments. Decolonization was the era of grand slogans about the advancement of peoples and modernization through massive infrastructure projects.
这种乌托邦只在咫尺之遥的愿景受到了一些君主的追捧，是一个共同的政治梦想。在自己的民众和外国政府眼里，这个愿景让那些新政权有了合法性。去殖民化是一个充满各种改善民生和通过大型基础设施项目实现现代化的宏伟口号的时代。
But that dream has aged badly, because of the bloody-mindedness of those authoritarian regimes and the political failures of the left in the Arab world.
但因为那些威权主义政权的残暴倾向和阿拉伯世界的左派在政治上的失败，这个梦想日渐黯淡。
Today, one has to be a Muslim – by faith, culture or place of residence – in order to experience the full weight of the new post-mortem utopia of the Islamosphere circulating on the internet and the media. It conditions people’s imaginations, political speech, coffee-shop daydreams and the desperation of the younger generations. Paradise has come back into fashion, described in mind-boggling detail by preachers, imams and Islamist fantasy literature.
如今，人们必须是穆斯林——不管是根据信仰，文化还是居住地来判断——才能体会在互联网和媒体上流传的这种伊斯兰世界的新兴来世乌托邦的全部影响。它决定着人们的想象、政治言论、咖啡馆里的白日梦和年轻一代的绝望。天堂重新流行起来，成了传道者、伊玛目和伊斯兰派奇幻文学的描述对象，详细程度令人难以置信。
Its main selling point: women, who are promised in vast numbers as a reward for the righteous. The women of paradise, the houris, are beautiful, submissive, languorous virgins. The idea of them feeds a barely believable form of erotico-Islamism that drives jihadists and gets other men to fantasize about escaping the sexual misery of everyday life. Suicide bombers or misogynists, they share the same dream.
它的主要卖点是：女性。它许诺，向正直的人们赐予大量女性作为回报。天堂里的女性，即houris，是漂亮、顺从、恬静的处女。天堂里有她们这一点催生了一种令人难以相信的性爱伊斯兰主义。它鼓舞着圣战主义者，并促使其他男性幻想着摆脱日常生活中的性苦闷。不管是自杀式炸弹袭击者还是厌恶女性的人，他们都做着同一个美梦。
What about the women allowed into the eternal garden? If men can have dozens of virgins, what of the women, especially considering the machismo of those earthbound dream-makers? The preachers’ responses can be amusing: The woman’s heavenly reward is to be her husband’s happy wife throughout eternity, the two of them destined to enjoy perpetual conjugal felicity, at the symbolic age of 33 and in good health. And if the woman is divorced? A preacher replies that she will be remarried to a dead man who was also divorced.
获许进入那个永恒乐园的女性呢？如果男性可以拥有几十个处女，那么女性呢，特别是考虑到尘世里那些造梦者的大男子主义？传道者的回答可能会引人发笑：女性在天堂里的回报是永远做丈夫幸福的妻子，两人注定会以33岁的象征性年龄和健康的身体，享受永恒的幸福婚姻。如果是离异女性呢？一名传道者回答说，她会再婚，嫁给一个同样离过婚的过世男性。
Curiously, this dream of a Muslim paradise finds itself confronted with another dream at once antagonistic and similar: the West. Generating passion or hatred for the Muslim believer and the jihadist alike, the West and its indulgences represent another facet of the post-mortem Muslim paradise. One dreams of going there, whether as migrant or as martyr. One dreams of going to the West and of living and dying there, or of subjugating and destroying it.
奇怪的是，这个穆斯林天堂的梦想会发现自己面对着另一个既对抗，又相似的梦想：西方。西方和它的各种放纵激起的热爱或厌恶既针对穆斯林信众，也针对圣战主义者。它们代表着来世穆斯林天堂的另一个方面。人们梦想着去西方，不管是以移民，还是以殉道者的身份。人们梦想着去西方，在那里生老病死，或是征服并摧毁那里。
The new Muslim utopia weighs heavily on today’s Arab world. What motivates the masses, gives sense to their despair, lightens the weight of the world and compensates for sorrow no longer is the promise of a rich and happy country, as was the case after decolonization; it’s a vision of paradise in the afterlife. But this fantasy of eternal bliss also causes uneasiness: For however much one wishes to ignore this, the fact remains that in order to get to heaven, one first has to die.
这个新的穆斯林乌托邦对今天的阿拉伯世界影响重大。调动民众积极性、让他们的绝望变得有意义、减轻现世的压力、弥补悲伤的不再像去殖民化结束后那样，是建立一个富裕、幸福的国家的希望，而是来世进入天堂的愿景。但这个永享幸福的梦想也会引起不安：因为不管人们多么希望忽视它，要想进天堂首先得死去这一点依然是不争的事实。