DAVAO CITY, Philippines — President Rodrigo Duterte relishes the image of killer-savior. He boasts of killing criminals with his own hand. On occasion, he calls for mass murder.
菲律宾，达沃市——罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)总统沉醉在杀戮者-拯救者这个形象里。他夸耀自己曾经亲手杀死罪犯。有时他还呼吁进行大规模谋杀。
Speaking of the drug addicts he says are destroying the Philippines, he said, “I would be happy to slaughter them.”
他声称他口中的吸毒成瘾者正在摧毁菲律宾，他说：“我很乐意杀掉他们。”
Duterte and his friends have long cultivated legends of his sadistic exploits, like throwing a drug lord from a helicopter and forcing a tourist who violated a smoking ban to eat his cigarette butt at gunpoint.
杜特地和他的朋友们长期以来一直都在宣扬他残忍施暴的事迹，比如他把一个毒枭从直升机上扔下去，用枪逼着一个违反禁烟令的旅客吃掉烟蒂。
It is a thuggish image that Duterte embraces.
这是杜特地刻意塑造的一个野蛮粗鲁的形象。
Whether Duterte has done what he says — the killings he claims to have carried out are impossible to verify — he has realized his gory vision in national policy. First as a mayor, now as president of the Philippines, he has encouraged the police and vigilantes to kill thousands of people with impunity.
不管杜特地是否真的做了他所说的事——他宣称的那些杀戮已经无法验证——他已经通过国家政策夯实了自己的血腥愿景。先是在担任市长期间，现在担任菲律宾总统期间，他都鼓励警方和治安员不受惩罚地杀死数以千计的人。
While his draconian justice and coarse manner have earned him widespread condemnation outside the Philippines, an in-depth look at his rise to power and interviews with many people close to him reveal a man of multiple contradictions.
虽然他严苛的正义和粗暴的方式使他在菲律宾以外的地方受到广泛谴责，但是对他崛起并掌权的经过进行深入了解，并与许多他身边的人进行访谈之后，便可以发现一个身具多重矛盾的人物。
He has alienated many with outrageous comments and irrational behavior, yet remains wildly popular. He is an anti-drug crusader, yet has struggled with drug abuse himself. And he grew up a child of privilege, the son of a provincial governor, yet was subjected to regular beatings.
他那些荒唐的评论与不合逻辑的行为已经令很多人同他疏远，但他仍然非常受欢迎。他是反对毒品的圣战者，但自己也一直在与药物滥用展开斗争。他是省长的儿子，成长期间一直是个拥有特权的孩子，但是曾经常遭到殴打。
His mother whipped him so often for his misbehavior that she wore out her horsewhip, according to his brother, Emmanuel Duterte. At parochial school, he was caned by Jesuit priests and, the president says, molested by one. By his teenage years, he was known as a street brawler.
据他的兄弟伊曼纽尔·杜特地(Emmanuel Duterte)说，他的母亲经常因为他调皮捣蛋而鞭打他，把马鞭都打坏了。在教区的学校里，他也曾挨过耶稣会牧师的板子，而且，总统说，他曾遭到一个人的性骚扰。在十几岁的时候，他就已经以街头的打架斗殴而为人所知。
“Violence in the house, violence in the school and violence in the neighborhood,” Emmanuel Duterte said. “That is why he is always angry. Because if you have pain when you are young, you are angry all the time.”
“家中的暴力，学校的暴力和家庭所在街区的暴力，”伊曼纽尔·杜特地说。“所以他总是很愤怒。因为如果你年轻时有过痛苦的话，你会一直都很愤怒。”
Years later, a psychological assessment of Rodrigo Duterte, prepared in 1998 for the annulment of his marriage, concluded that he had “narcissistic personality disorder” and a “pervasive tendency to demean, humiliate others and violate their rights.”
多年后的1998年，为了判定其婚姻无效，针对罗德里戈·杜特地的心理评估上写道，他有“自恋型人格障碍”和“贬低、侮辱他人以及侵犯他人权利的普遍倾向”。
Nonetheless, his ailing ex-wife campaigned for his presidential bid last year.
尽管如此，他身患重病的前妻去年依然支持他的总统竞选。
That act of devotion only begins to unravel the paradox that is Duterte. Behind his brutish caricature, according to interviews with dozens of Duterte’s friends, family members, allies and critics, is a man who can be charming and engaging. He has many loyal friends and a soft spot for sick children.
这种奉献行为有助于解开杜特地的悖论。根据对几十名杜特地的朋友、家人与盟友，以及批评人士的采访，在他野蛮的夸张肖像背后，是一个可以显得非常迷人，非常有魅力的人物。他有很多忠实的朋友，生病的孩子总能打动他内心柔软的地方。
As mayor of Davao City, he was known to help people in need by digging into his pocket and handing them a wad of cash. To many, his vulgar jokes only burnish his bona fides as a man of the people. When he appears in public, he is swarmed by adoring fans.
担任达沃市市长期间，他常常从自己兜里掏出厚厚一沓现金分发给有需要的人，因此出了名。在很多人看来，他口中冒出的低俗笑话只不过突显了他的真性情，能和民众打成一片。每当他出现在公共场合，总是能吸引大量崇拜他的粉丝。
Still, the bodies have been piling up. Since Duterte took office last June and declared a “war” on drugs, the police and unknown assassins have killed more than 3,600 people, the police say, mostly in the slums of Philippine cities. Some put the toll at more than 7,000.
不过，尸体一直堆积如山。警方称，自从杜特地于去年6月上台并宣布打响禁毒“战争”以来，警方以及不知名的杀手已经杀死了3600余人，他们大多来自菲律宾城市地区的贫民窟。也有观点认为死亡人数在7000人以上。
“I might go down in the history as the butcher,” he acknowledged unapologetically in January.
“我或许会被当作屠夫载入史册，”今年1月份，他毫无歉意地承认。
In less than nine months, he has already surpassed the death toll of President Ferdinand Marcos, whose forces killed about 3,300 political opponents and activists during his harsh 20-year rule.
上台不到9个月，他就已经超越了费迪南德·马科斯(Ferdinand Marcos)的杀戮记录——后者在其长达20年的严酷统治期间，指使军队杀死了大约3300名政治反对派和活动人士。
Yet his gangland approach to combating crime and drugs has largely endeared him to Filipinos who have suffered high rates of violent crime and who see him as a refreshing change from the sophisticated but out-of-touch elite who have ruled this country for most of the last three decades.
然而，他以黑帮的手法对抗犯罪和毒品，这却在很大程度上让他深受很多菲律宾人喜爱。他们中的一些人饱受高犯罪率之苦；另一些人则认为他代表了统治阶层令人耳目一新的转变——在此前30年的大部分时间里，这个国家一直都由老谋深算而又高高在上的精英统治。 
The dissonance between the image of the gentle, caring grandfather and the brutal strongman spilling blood on the streets is just one of many in a common-man president who was born to the elite and has lived a life surrounded by violence.
一面以温和体贴的祖父形象示人，一面又扮演着让人喋血街头的残暴强人的角色，这位出身精英阶层、在暴力环境中长大的平民总统身上还存在很多类似的冲突。
Young, Armed and Angry
配枪的愤怒少年
Duterte grew up in war-torn Davao City, in the southern Philippines, the oldest son of the governor of Davao province.
作为达沃省前省长的长子，杜特地是在被战火撕裂的菲律宾南部城市达沃市长大成人的。
As a teenager, he hung out with the toughest kids, got into fights and learned the rude expressions he uses today. By 15, he was carrying a gun, his brother said.
十几岁时，他和一帮坏小子混在一起，参与打架斗殴，并学会了他今天使用的那些粗鲁言辞。他弟弟说，他15岁那年就带着一把枪出入。
In the 1980s, his mother led frequent marches against Marcos’ dictatorial rule. After Marcos’ ouster, President Corazon Aquino offered her the post of Davao’s vice mayor. She asked that Rodrigo be appointed instead, friends and family said.
在1980年代，他母亲曾频频领导反对马科斯独裁统治的游行活动。马科斯被赶下台后，贝尼尼奥·阿基诺(Benigno S. Aquino)总统想让她出任达沃市副市长。但朋友和家人说，她向对方推荐了罗德里戈。
Two years later, in 1988, he ran for mayor and won, starting a lifelong streak in which he has never lost an election.
两年后的1988年，他竞选市长并获得胜利，由此开启了一种伴随他一生的势头——从未在任何一场选举中落败。
The Davao Death Squad
达沃行刑队
Shortly after he became mayor, crime suspects started turning up dead on Davao’s streets.
他出任市长后不久，犯罪嫌疑人开始横尸达沃街头。
Duterte and his supporters have long denied the existence of a death squad in Davao City. But in September, Edgar Matobato, 57, came forward and told a Senate committee that he worked as an assassin on the squad for 24 years, killing about 50 people.
杜特地及其支持者一直否认达沃行刑队的存在。去年9月，现年57岁的埃德加·马托巴托(Edgar Matobato)站了出来，告诉参议院的一个委员会，自己给行刑队当了24年的杀手，杀死了大约50人。
In an interview with The New York Times, he said the death squad was founded in 1988 at a lunch he attended at the old Menseng Hotel with Duterte, several police officers and six other recruits. They were told their job was to hunt down criminals.
马托巴托接受《纽约时报》采访时说，行刑队于1988年在一场午餐会上成立，当时他曾赶赴老民生饭店(Menseng Hotel)，与杜特地、几名警官以及另外六名新队员共进午餐。他们被告知其工作就是追捕罪犯。
A police officer passed around a covered basket, and each recruit took out a weapon. Matobato considered it good fortune that he drew a .45.
一名警官递过来一只被盖住的篮子，每名新队员都从里面拿出一件武器。马托巴托拿到了一把点45口径手枪，他觉得自己运气很好。
“The only one who could command the Davao Death Squad was Mayor Duterte,” he told The Times. “If there was an order to kill, it had to be with his clearance. Without his orders, we kill no one.”
“唯一一个能指挥行刑队的人就是杜特地市长。”他告诉时报。“杀人命令必须附有他的许可。没有他的命令，我们不会杀任何人。”
In February, a former police officer, Arthur Lascañas, 56, came forward and confessed to having led the death squad. He said that he received orders to kill directly from Duterte and that he had killed 200 people.
今年2月，56岁的前警官亚瑟·拉斯卡纳斯(Arthur Lascañas)站出来承认，他担任过行刑队的负责人。他说杜特地直接向他下达杀人命令，自己手上有200条人命。
“All the killings that we committed in Davao City, whether they were buried or thrown in the sea, were paid for by Mayor Duterte,” he said.
“杜特地市长为我们在达沃市的所有杀戮行动付款，不管我们是把尸体埋起来还是扔进海里，”他说。
Of the more than 1,400 people the Davao Death Squad is believed to have killed, at least one was not a crime suspect. Jun Pala, a journalist and outspoken critic of Duterte’s, was gunned down near his home in 2003. Lascañas said the mayor had ordered the killing, and Lascañas helped carry it out.
达沃行刑队据信杀死了1400余人，其中至少有一个不是疑犯。2003年，直言不讳地批评杜特地的记者尤恩·帕拉(Jun Pala)在他家附近被射杀。拉斯卡纳斯说发出死亡通牒的是市长，拉斯卡纳斯帮助执行了这项命令。
Duterte has never directly addressed the accusations made by Matobato or Lascañas, and he declined to be interviewed for this article. After Matobato’s testimony, Duterte accused the senator who led the committee of taking payoffs from drug lords. She was arrested and jailed last month.
杜特地从未直接应对马托巴托或拉斯卡纳斯的指控，他也拒绝就本文接受采访。马托巴托出来作证以后，杜特地指控领导那个委员会的参议员收受毒枭的贿赂。她于上月被逮捕并收监。
Duterte’s personal death toll is harder to substantiate. If he stabbed someone on the beach, there is no record of it. In boasting that he hunted down suspects by night, he offered no specifics.
杜特地亲手杀了多少人则更为难以证实。如果他在海滩上捅了谁，是不会有记录的。他夸口说曾在夜间追捕嫌犯，但却没有提供具体细节。
His claim to have killed “about three people” probably refers to a 1988 hostage raid in which he says he fired an M-16 at three kidnappers. But he recently acknowledged, “I may have hit them all or none at all.”
他声称自己杀过“大约三个人”，那大概是指1988年的一场解救人质的突袭行动，他说自己在行动中拿着一把M-16朝三名绑架者开了火。但他最近承认，“我或许射中了他们所有人，又或许谁也没打着。”
‘A Simple Man’
“一个单纯的人”
Becoming president has been an adjustment for Duterte, who is 71. For months, he still thought of himself as mayor and often called himself that.
现年71岁的杜特地一直在适应总统这一角色。有好几个月，他仍然觉得自己是市长，还常常以此自称。
He prefers to go home to Davao City rather than stay in the sprawling presidential palace complex in Manila. In a land that is notoriously corrupt and where government officials often live like kings, he has lived for decades in the same modest two-story house where he only recently installed air-conditioning.
他更愿意回自己位于达沃市的家，而不是待在马尼拉用作总统官邸的偌大宫殿里。菲律宾是一个因腐败而臭名昭著的国度，政府官员常常过着君王般的生活，而他几十年来一直住在一栋不起眼的二层楼里，最近才安了空调。
Pomilda Daniel, a neighbor, calls him “a simple man.” She said that Duterte once admired her large new television and asked if he could have it if it ever broke so that he could fix it and use it.
邻居波米尔达·丹尼尔(Pomilda Daniel)说他是“一个单纯的人”。她说杜特地曾眼馋她家的大尺寸新电视，还问她等那台电视坏了他能否拿去修好接着用。
Yet when he discovered during a visit to the House of Hope, a child cancer treatment center in Davao, that the children had no televisions, he returned the same day with nine TV sets and had them installed, said Mae Dolendo, a pediatric oncologist who heads the center.
不过，达沃市儿童癌症治疗中心“希望之屋”(House of Hope)负责人、儿童肿瘤医生梅·多连多(Mae Dolendo)说，当他在探访该中心期间发现孩子们没有电视时，便于当天再度上门，送去9台电视并安装就绪。
“He is very, very compassionate,” she said. “We have had presidents who conducted themselves like we would expect presidents to conduct themselves, but they haven’t solved the country’s problems. He’s not perfect. He curses. But he gets things done.”
“他是一个非常非常有同情心的人，”他说。“我们有过许多总统，他们的言行举止确实是我们心目中总统该有的作派，但他们都没能解决这个国家的问题。他并不完美。他会骂人。但他能解决问题。”
Duterte has no official first lady and boasted during his campaign that he had two wives and two girlfriends. Later, he said he should give Pfizer an award for creating Viagra.
杜特地没有正式的第一夫人，他曾在竞选期间夸耀自己有两个妻子、两个女朋友。后来他说，他应该奖励研制出万艾可(Viagra)的辉瑞公司(Pfizer)。
In 1973, he eloped with Elizabeth Zimmerman, a former flight attendant, after courting her for a month. The marriage lasted until 2000, when it was annulled.
1973年，他在追求前空姐伊丽莎白·齐默曼(Elizabeth Zimmerman)一个月之后与她私奔。两人的婚姻关系一直持续到2000年，并于那一年被宣告无效。
The psychological assessment of Duterte prepared for the annulment, a copy of which was obtained by The Times, was based on an examination of Elizabeth Duterte and is not a diagnosis.
杜特地的心理评估报告就是被用来解除两人婚姻关系的，时报拿到了一份副本，它以对伊丽莎白·杜特地的问询为基础，并不是一份诊断书。
In addition to the finding of narcissism, it described Duterte as a “control freak” and womanizer who began having affairs soon after he was married and flaunted his infidelity by bringing girlfriends to public functions.
除了说杜特地自恋，报告还把他描绘为一个“控制狂”和花心大萝卜，说他婚后没多久就开始出轨，并把女友带到公共场合，当众炫耀自己的不忠。
While still married, Duterte met Cielito Avanceña, a teenage contestant in a beauty pageant who goes by Honeylet. She is 25 years his junior. He has described her as his second wife, although they never married.
婚姻尚未解除期间，杜特地遇到了西勒托·阿梵西那(Cielito Avanceña)，她是一个参加选美比赛的少女，昵称亨莉勒(Honeylet)。她比他小25岁。他一直说她是自己的第二任妻子，不过他们从未结婚。
Elizabeth Duterte and Avanceña declined to be interviewed.
伊丽莎白·杜特地和阿梵西那拒绝接受采访。
Duterte’s Other Drug Problem
杜特地的其他药品问题
Perhaps some of the president’s mercurial behavior stems from the constant pain he suffers and his use of narcotics to treat it. Duterte has made a political career of fighting drugs, but acknowledged in December that he had been abusing the opioid fentanyl, the powerful and addictive drug that killed the musician Prince last April.
总统的某些反复无常的行径，或许缘于他长期遭受病痛折磨，并用麻醉品来疏解病痛。杜特地为自己打造了抗击毒品的政治生涯，但他在去年12月承认，他有滥用鸦片类药物芬太尼的经历。芬太尼是一种效力强大、容易让人上瘾的药物，曾在去年4月导致音乐人“王子”(Prince)死亡。
Duterte began using fentanyl to treat back pain and migraines from a spinal injury, apparently a result of a motorcycle accident a few years ago.
杜特地一开始是用芬太尼治疗脊髓损伤引起的背痛和偏头痛，而脊髓损伤似乎是由几年前的一场摩托车祸造成的。
His doctor prescribed a quarter of a fentanyl skin patch, the president said, but he began using an entire patch at a time. When his doctor discovered that, he ordered him to quit.
总统说，医生开的处方是一次使用四分之一片芬太尼皮肤贴片，但他开始一次贴一整片。医生发现后，勒令他停止。
“He said: ‘Stop it. The first thing that you would lose is your cognitive ability,'” the president recounted. “'You are, you know, abusing the drug.'”
“他说：‘快住手。你首先会失去的就是认知能力，’”总统转述道。“‘你知道吗，你正在滥用这种药物。’”
Duterte has not said publicly when he started using fentanyl or whether he has stopped. In December, he denied being addicted.
杜特地没有公开提及他在何时开始使用芬太尼，或者是否已经停用。去年12月的时候，他否认自己处于成瘾状态。
Decades ago, Duterte learned that he had two rare conditions, Barrett’s esophagus and Buerger’s disease, which prompted him to quit drinking and smoking. As mayor, he enforced a strict public smoking ban, and he is now considering a similar measure nationwide.
数十年前，杜特地得知自己有两种罕见的病症，巴雷特食管(Barrett's esophagus)和柏格氏病(Buerger's disease)，于是戒掉了烟酒。担任市长期间，他颁布了一项严厉的公共场合禁烟令；眼下他正考虑在全国范围内推行类似的举措。
He dislikes being questioned about his health. After a reporter asked for his medical report, he publicly rebuked the journalist, demanding, “How is your wife’s vagina?”
他不喜欢有人问及他的健康问题。他曾公开反驳一名要看他的医疗报告的记者，问对方，“你老婆的阴道怎么样了？”
Loose Talk
随意的言谈
Duterte’s outrageous remarks have left many with the impression that he is unhinged.
杜特地发表过的离谱言论让很多人觉得他有点精神错乱。
He says God speaks to him and made him president of this heavily Roman Catholic country. He has compared himself to Hitler. He used a term that translates as “son of a whore” to describe both Pope Francis and President Barack Obama.
他说上帝会跟他说话，并让他当上了这个以天主教徒为主的国家的总统。他曾自比希特勒。他用来形容教皇方济各(Pope Francis)和贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统的一个词，可以被翻译成“狗娘养的”。
Antonio Trillanes, a senator, recalled that when they met in 2015 to discuss a political alliance, Duterte only wanted to talk about people he had killed and “how the brains were splattered all over the place, gangland style.”
参议员安东尼奥·特里利亚内斯(Antonio Trillanes)回忆说，2015年，为了讨论政治联盟方面的问题，他在与杜特地首次会面，而后者当时只想大谈自己杀人的事情，以及“脑浆如何溅得到处都是，一副黑帮做派。”
He seems never to have questioned the proposition that shooting people on the street is the best remedy for crime and addiction.
杜特地似乎从未怀疑过，当街将人射杀是抗击犯罪和毒瘾的最佳办法。
“I have my own political philosophy,” he said recently. “Do not destroy my country, because I will kill you.”
“我有自己的政治哲学，”前不久他说道。“不要毁我的国家，否则我就杀了你。”