Five Sherpas surrounded the frozen corpse. They swung axes at the body’s edges, trying to pry it from its icy tomb. They knocked chunks of snow from the body, and the shattered pieces skittered down the mountain. When they finally freed a leg and lifted it, the entire stiff and contorted body shifted, down to its fingertips.
五个夏尔巴人围着那具冻僵的遗体。他们朝遗体的边缘挥舞着斧头，试图把它从冰的坟墓里撬出来。他们敲落遗体上厚厚的雪块，碎片飞向山下。当他们终于清理出一条腿，并将它抬起来时，整具僵硬的、扭曲的遗体，一直到指尖，就都可以移动了。
The sun was shining, but the air was dangerously cold and thin at 27,300 feet above sea level. A plume of snow clouded the ridge toward the summit of Mount Everest, so close above. When the Sherpas arrived — masks on their faces, oxygen tanks on their backs — the only movement on the steep face came from the dead man’s frayed jacket pockets.
阳光明媚，但这个海拔27300英尺（约合8320米）的地方气温极低，并且空气稀薄。抬头望去，珠穆朗玛峰的峰顶近在咫尺，一团雪烟笼罩着通向峰顶的山脊。当这些戴着面罩，背着氧气罐的夏尔巴人到达这里时，这面陡峭的山上唯一的动静，来自这名死去的男子已经磨损的夹克口袋。
More than a year of exposure to the world’s wickedest elements had blackened and shriveled the man’s bare face and hands. His hydrant-yellow summit suit had dulled to the hue of a fallen leaf. The bottom of his boots pointed uphill. His frozen arms were bent at the elbows and splayed downhill over his head. It was as if the man sat down for a rest, fell backward and froze that way.
暴露在全世界最恶劣的天气里一年多后，这名男子露在外面的脸和双手都变黑且萎缩了。他身上的亮黄色登山套装褪成了落叶的颜色，靴子底朝着上山的方向。冻僵的胳膊弯曲着，停留在头顶，朝下山的方向张开。就像是坐下来休息，然后朝后倒去并以那个姿势冻僵了一样。
The Sherpas picked at the body and used gestures and muffled words to decide how best to move it off the mountain. The ghoulish face and bone-white teeth scared them, so they covered the head with the jacket’s hood.
夏尔巴人拉扯着遗体，用动作和压低了声音的说话来决定怎样抬下山为好。那张可怕的脸和骨白色的牙齿让他们感到害怕，于是他们用夹克的帽子盖住了头部。
There was no time to linger. That altitude is called the “death zone” for good reason. The Sherpas knew from experience how difficult it was to scale the world’s highest mountain. The only thing more daunting might be to haul a dead body back down.
没时间逗留。这片高海拔地区被称作“死亡地带”是有充分理由的。这些夏尔巴人凭经验知道，攀登世界最高峰有多么困难。唯一比这更令人心悸的，就是拖着一具遗体下山了。
The man’s name was Goutam Ghosh, and the last time anyone saw him alive was on the evening of May 21, 2016, when it was obvious that he would become another fatality statistic, soon frozen and as inanimate as the boulders around him.
这名男子叫古塔姆·高希(Goutam Ghosh)。最后一次有人看到他活着是在2016年5月21日傍晚。当时，他显然即将成为死亡人员数据中的又一个数字，迅速被冻僵，变得和他周围的巨石一样没有生命。
Ghosh was a 50-year-old police officer from Kolkata, part of a doomed eight-person expedition — four climbers from the Indian state of West Bengal and four Sherpa guides from Nepal — that ran out of time and oxygen near the top of Everest. The four Bengali climbers were eventually abandoned by their guides and left to die. Three did; only one, a 42-year-old woman named Sunita Hazra, survived, as did the guides.
50岁的高希是一名警察，来自加尔各答。他参加了一个惨遭厄运的八人登山队。登山队由四名来自印度西孟加拉邦的登山者和四名来自尼泊尔的夏尔巴人向导组成。在快到峰顶时，他们耗尽了时间和氧气。最终，四名来自西孟加拉的登山者被他们的向导抛弃，只能等死。他们中三人死亡，只有一人和向导幸存了下来。此人是一名42岁的女子，名叫苏尼塔·哈斯拉(Sunita Hazra)。
At the time of the tragedy, the climbing season for Everest was almost over. On their way to the summit over the next two nights, the last two dozen of the year’s climbers had come upon Ghosh’s rigid corpse on a steep section of rock and ice.
悲剧发生时，攀登珠峰的季节已经快结束了。在接下来的两个晚上，当年最后20多名登山者在前往峰顶的路上都看到了高希僵硬的遗体。遗体位于一个岩石和冰层遍布的陡峭路段上。
To get around him, climbers and their guides, sucking oxygen through masks and double-clipped to a rope for safety, stripped off their puffy mittens. They untethered the clips one at a time, stepped over and reached around Ghosh’s body, and clipped themselves to the rope above him.
出于安全起见，通过面罩吸氧的登山者和他们的向导用两个扣环把自己扣在一根绳子上。为了绕到他的另一侧，他们摘下厚厚的连指手套。他们一次解开一个扣环，跨过高希的遗体，绕到另一侧，再把自己扣到他身上的绳子上。
The four Indian climbers, from a vibrant climbing culture in West Bengal, saw the mountain as the ultimate conquest, a bucket-list item that would bring personal satisfaction and prestige.
这四名印度登山者来自登山文化活跃的西孟加拉邦。他们将珠峰视为终极征服对象，这是一个能给人带来满足感和声望的目标。
Climbing Everest is an expensive endeavor. Some spend $100,000 to ensure the best guides, service and safety.
攀登珠峰代价不菲。为了确保得到最好的向导、服务和安全，一些人的花费高达10万美元。
These four climbers measured monthly salaries in the hundreds of dollars. They borrowed money and sold off possessions simply for a chance.
这四名登山者的月薪只有几百美元。他们借钱并卖掉了自己的家当，只为了有机会一试。
Ghosh shared an apartment with eight members of his extended family. Paresh Nath, 58, was a one-handed tailor who barely scraped by with his wife and young son. Subhas Paul, 44, drove a small-goods truck and used his father’s pension to pay for his Everest attempt. Hazra was a nurse, married and raising a son.
高希和大家庭里的八名成员合住一套公寓。58岁的帕雷什·纳特(Paresh Nath)是一名只有一只手的裁缝，和妻子及年幼的儿子勉强度日。44岁的苏巴斯·保罗(Subhas Paul)是一名运送肉类熟食的卡车司机，他用父亲的养老金支付了这次攀登珠峰的费用。哈斯拉是一名护士，已婚并育有一子。
About 5,000 people have reached the 29,029-foot summit of Everest at least once since Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary first did it in 1953. Nearly 300 people have died on the mountain in that period, according to the Himalayan Database.
自丹增·诺盖(Tenzing Norgay)和埃德蒙·希拉里(Edmund Hillary)在1953年首次登上29029英尺的珠穆朗玛峰峰顶以来，已有大约5000人至少登顶过一次。喜马拉雅数据库(Himalayan Database)显示，在此期间近300人死在了这座山上。
Nepal officials estimate that about 200 bodies remain scattered across Everest.
尼泊尔官方估计，珠峰上仍散布着大约200具遗体。
Most of the bodies are far out of sight. Some have been moved, dumped over cliffs or into crevasses at the behest of families bothered that their loved ones were someone else’s landmark or at the direction of Nepali officials who worry that the sight of dead bodies hinders the country’s tourist trade.
大部分遗体远离人们的视线。一些遗体已经按照家人的吩咐或尼泊尔官方的指示被转移、扔下悬崖或扔进冰川裂隙里了。家人担心自己的亲人成为他人的里程碑，尼泊尔官方则担心遗体影响该国旅游业。
More and more, however, families and friends of those who die on Everest and the world’s other highest peaks want and expect the bodies to be brought home. Recovering the bodies can be more dangerous and far more costly than the expedition that killed the climber.
然而，有越来越多的家庭和朋友希望并打算将留在珠峰或世界其他高峰的亲人遗体带回家。而取回遗体的过程，远远要比使登山者丧命的探险更加危险和昂贵。
There are practical considerations, including whether to search for the bodies of those presumed missing or dead, if that is even feasible, and whether to recover the body or let it rest eternally where it is. There are emotional considerations, maybe cultural and religious ones, often in the name of closure. There are logistical concerns, including danger and cost, local customs and international laws. Sometimes, in some places, recovery of a body is not just wanted, it is needed, to prove a death so that benefits can be provided to a family in desperate need of financial support.
这其中有现实的考虑，包括是否要去搜寻已被认定失踪或死亡人员的遗体——假如还有可能的话，还要考虑是否将遗体带回，还是就让它永远地留在原地。还有情感方面的考虑，或许出于文化和宗教情感——往往是要追求一种“了结”。还有实际操作方面的考虑，包括危险性和花销、当地习俗以及国际法律。有时候，在一些地区，找回遗体不只是一个念想，而是一种需要。死亡一经证明，急需经济支持的家人就可以获得提供的补助。
All these things came into play after the bodies of three men from India were scattered high on Everest in 2016. The dim hopes for rescue kindled into demands for recovery, led by the West Bengal government.
2016年，当三名印度男子的遗体散落在珠峰高处时，这些种种因素都开始作用。渺茫的救援希望发展成了寻回遗体的要求，搜寻工作由西孟加拉政府主导。
Within a few days, in the short window between the last of the season’s summit attempts and the start of the summer monsoon that racks the Himalayas and shuts down the climbing season until the following year, a recovery team of six hired Sherpas tried to find the deceased and carry them down. They had neither the manpower nor the time.
从本次登山季最后一次登顶尝试，到将会使喜马拉雅狂风大作、直到来年才能开始登山的夏季季风来临，中间只有短短几天的窗口期，在这几天内，由6个雇来的夏尔巴人组成的一只搜寻队试图找到逝者，并将遗体带下山。无论人手还是时间都是不足的。
The first they found was Paul, the delivery driver and a part-time guitar instructor who lived with his family, including his wife and 10-year-old daughter, in the small town of Bankura. He was steps from the well-worn route below Camp 4, roughly 26,000 feet above sea level. It took four hours to chip and pry him from his icy grave and another 12 to drag him to Camp 2, where a helicopter carried the body to Base Camp.
他们第一个找到的是保罗(Paul)，那名货车司机兼职吉他老师，他和他的妻子以及10岁大的女儿住在班库拉小县城里。他离山下海拔大约2.6万英尺高的4号营地的老路线只有几步之遥。搜寻队花了四个小时才把他从冰雪坟墓中挖凿出来，又花了12个小时把他拖到了2号营地。在那里，一辆直升机会把遗体运往大本营。
Back on Everest, above where Paul’s body was extricated, two of the Sherpas moved up to Camp 4. At roughly 26,000 feet, higher than all but about 15 of Earth’s peaks, it sits at the edge of the oxygen-depleted death zone and is the last rest stop for climbers before their final push to the summit. The Sherpas searched the abandoned tents, some shredded to ribbons by wind, until they found the body of another of the missing Indian climbers. They knew it was Nath, the tailor, because he had only one hand, the other lost in a childhood firecracker accident.
珠峰上，在比挖出保罗的遗体更高的地方，其中两个夏尔巴人走向了4号营地。那里海拔大约2.6万英尺，比世界上除了前15座高峰以外的所有山峰都高，它坐落于氧气稀薄的死亡区的边缘，也是登山者们向山顶发起最后冲击之前的最后一个休息站。夏尔巴人搜寻着被遗弃的帐篷，有些帐篷被风撕成了条缕状，在这里，他们又发现了另一个失踪印度登山者的遗体。他们知道那是裁缝纳特，因为他只有一只手。他在儿时一次放鞭炮的事故中失去了另一只。
Raging winds kept them from climbing any higher in search of Ghosh, and the men were called back. The summer monsoon was on the way, ending the climbing season. Ghosh and Nath, left dead in the death zone, would remain on Everest for at least a year, and maybe forever.
肆虐的狂风使他们无法再登上更高的地方寻找高希，他们被召回了。夏季风即将到来，登山季就要结束。死去的高希和纳特被留在了死亡区里，至少要在珠峰再待上一年，或永远。
Ghosh’s wife, Chandana, kept the vermilion sindoor in the part of her hair, and the red and white bangles on her right wrist, to indicate that she was a married woman. She would not remove them until she was certain she was a widow. She left the calendar on the wall of the bedroom turned to May 2016. In her mind, that was when time stopped.
高希的妻子尚达娜(Chandana)还留着头发上那抹赤色的发际红，右手手腕上还佩戴着红白色的手镯，这表示她是一个已婚女性。在确定自己已是寡妇之前，她不会摘下它们。卧房内，她的挂历还翻在2016年5月那页。在她心里，这是时间停止的地方。
“I still believe he is alive,” she said in her home in February. “Unless I see him, and we cremate him, I will not change.”
“我仍然相信他还活着，”她二月份时在家里说道。“除非我看到他，再将他火化，否则我不会变。”
In the steel town of Durgapur, 100 miles northwest of Kolkata, Nath’s wife, Sabita, tried to move on. She had no money to bring the body home. She and her husband never spoke about what to do if he died, but now she convinced herself that he would want to be left on the mountain.
在加尔各答西北100英里处的杜尔加布尔钢铁城，纳特的妻子莎比塔(Sabita)在试着遗忘。她没有钱可以将遗体带回家。她和丈夫之间也从未讨论过他死后怎么办，但她现在已经说服自己相信他是想要被留在山上的。
On the afternoon of May 20, 2016, Ghosh, Nath, Paul and Hazra anxiously rested inside a tent at Camp 4. They wore oxygen masks and bright, bulky snowsuits filled with down.
2016年5月20日的一个下午，高希、纳特、保罗和哈兹拉焦虑地在4号营地的帐篷内休息。他们戴着氧气面罩，穿着颜色鲜艳、厚重的羽绒防雪服。
Finally, after weeks at Base Camp and on the lower slopes of Everest, they were within reach of the summit. If all went well, they would be back at Camp 4 within 24 hours.
在大本营和珠峰较低的山坡上度过了几个星期后，他们终于接近了峰顶。如果一切顺利，他们会在24小时内回到4号营地。
In the early evening, after dark and later than they had planned, they emerged from the tent, each with a guide.
傍晚天黑以后，比他们预计得晚，他们每人带着一个向导，出了帐篷。
The summit of Everest cannot be seen from Camp 4, but much of the route can. It leads up a series of ropes, used by every Everest climber, that are tied to anchors drilled into the rock and ice and set by Sherpas at the start of the season.
从4号营地无法看见珠峰的峰顶，但在这条路线的大多数位置上都能看到。它连着一连串的绳索，每一位珠峰的攀登者都要用上，绳索被系在那些由夏尔巴人在登山季之初钉在岩石和冰层上并固定好了的锚上。
The route leads across a barren ice field, sliced with deep crevasses, and shoots up a steep and rocky slope until it reaches a small flat spot, a burr on the side of the mountain. The landing is known as the Balcony, and from there it is two hours or more along the exposed, knife-edged Southeast Ridge to the South Summit. From the South Summit, the top of Everest finally emerges in full view.
这条路线穿过一片荒芜的冰原，被深深的裂缝切成片状，随后即是陡峭高耸、布满岩石的山坡，通往一个小小的平台，那是山脉在这个方向上的一个缓坡。这一片地方被称作“阳台”，从这里，沿着裸露的、悬崖陡峭的东南山脊前进两个多小时，就可以到达南峰。在南峰，珠峰的顶端就可以一览无余了。
The round-trip journey from Camp 4 takes some people less than 12 hours, and experienced guides and climbers know that it should take no more than about 18 — 12 hours up, six hours back. Prolonged exposure is dangerous.
从4号营地出发的往返路程，有些人用不到12小时就可以走完，而有经验的向导和登山者知道这最多也用不上18小时——12小时上山，6小时下山。长时间在外是有危险的。
The West Bengal expedition stood at the Balcony well after dawn. There were four clients and only three guides because Nath’s guide appeared to stay behind at Camp 4, for reasons never understood.
西孟加拉探险队在天完全亮了之后站在阳台上。四位登山者，却只有三名向导，因为纳特的向导不知是出于什么原因，似乎留在了4号营地。
The Base Camp manager for the Indian expedition received a radio call from Bishnu Gurung, the only one of the group’s guides with experience reaching the summit of Everest. He said he recommended to the clients that they turn back, but they refused.
印度探险队的大本营经理接到了来自比什努·古隆(Bishnu Gurung)的无线电呼叫，古隆是小组中唯一一位拥有珠峰登顶经历的向导。他说，他曾建议他的组员返回，但他们拒绝了。
Only Nath was persuaded to turn back to Camp 4.
只有纳特被说服返回了4号营地。
Paul and Lakpa Sherpa reached the summit at 1:45 p.m., according to the camera later recovered from Paul’s body.
根据后来从保罗身上拿到的相机显示，保罗和拉克帕·夏尔巴(Lakpa Sherpa)在下午1：45登顶珠峰。
The others in their group — Ghosh, Hazra, Nath and their guides — were somewhere below.
组内其余的人——高希、哈兹拉、纳特和他们的向导——都在下面的某处。
The last photograph of Ghosh taken with his camera appeared to be at the South Summit at 1:57 p.m.
高希用自己的相机拍下生前的最后一张照片中显示，他下午1：57时正在南峰。
Hazra, the lone survivor, said that she reached the summit at about 3 p.m. There is no evidence that she got there.
唯一的幸存者哈兹拉称，她在下午3点左右到达了山顶。没有证据表明她到过那里。
Back in West Bengal, vague and inaccurate news reports spread quickly on May 21: The climbers had reached the summit.
5月21日，在西孟加拉邦，一些不确切的消息迅速传开：登山者已经到达顶峰。
By nightfall, however, updated reports from Everest arrived. The West Bengali climbers were lost on their way down.
不过，到了傍晚，来自珠穆朗玛峰的最新报告传来了。西孟加拉的攀登者在下山途中迷路了。
The first photographs arrived on Tuesday, May 16, a day after the 2017 season opened.
5月16日，周二，也就是2017年登山季开始的第二天，第一批照片到达了。
The photo showed a body in a faded yellow snowsuit bent like a horseshoe and half-buried in snow. There was no face visible, but the boots and the gear matched what Ghosh was wearing a year before.
照片显示，一具穿着褪色黄风雪服的遗体蜷缩成U形，半埋在雪里。脸看不清，但靴子和装备跟高希一年前穿的一样。
Everyone agreed: It was Ghosh’s body.
大家一致认为，那是高希的遗体。
Three men from the West Bengal government rushed to Kathmandu. They quickly struck a deal with Mingma Sherpa, owner of Seven Summit Treks, a major Himalayan expedition company based in Kathmandu. The sides agreed on a price that the government would pay for the two bodies to be recovered: $90,000, roughly the amount the government quietly set aside weeks earlier. The government announced it would pay for the retrievals.
西孟加拉邦政府立刻派了三名男子赶赴加德满都。他们很快与加德满都主要喜马拉雅探险公司Seven Summit Treks的所有者明玛·夏尔巴(Mingma Sherpa)达成了协议。双方协商同意，政府将为找回这两具遗体支付9万美元，和政府几周前悄悄预留的款项大致相当。政府宣布将出钱取回遗体。
Sabita Nath and Chandana Ghosh received calls from a government official asking them to sign a “no objection” certificate to allow for the attempted recoveries. They agreed.
莎比塔·纳特和尚达娜·高希接到了一名政府官员的电话，要求她们签署一份“无异议”证明，允许找回遗体。她们同意了。
Nepal’s Department of Tourism, which oversees the country’s mountaineering trade, placed only one major provision on the operation: It did not want the bodies coming down at the same time that hundreds of climbers were going up.
负责监管尼泊尔登山业的尼泊尔旅游局(Nepal’s Department of Tourism)只对这次行动提出了一个主要要求：不要在数百名登山者往上爬时，往下运遗体。
It was late May, the tail end of the Everest climbing season, when five hired Sherpas quietly left Camp 2 at 1 a.m.
5月底，也就是珠峰登山季的尾声，五名受雇的夏尔巴人在凌晨1点悄悄离开了2号营地。
They turned their oxygen on low at what they called the “crampon point,” an hour above Camp 2.
在离开2号营地一小时后，也就是到达他们所说的“钉鞋点”后，他们把氧气调到了低档。
Sherpas typically use oxygen only in the death zone, at Camp 4 and above, but they wanted to move quickly.
夏尔巴人通常只在死亡区使用氧气，也就是4号营地以上，但他们想快速行动。
The leader was Dawa Finjhok Sherpa, a 29-year-old guide who had been to the summit of Everest five times.
领队是29岁的向导达瓦·菲乔克·夏尔巴(Dawa Finjhok Sherpa)，他曾五次登顶珠峰。
About 11 a.m., the retrieval Sherpas reached Camp 4, a ghost town of abandoned tents and gear so late in the season.
上午11点左右，搜索队到达了4号营地，在登山季的尾声，这里空无一人，只有废弃的帐篷和装备。
A few hours behind them, following the same route, six more Sherpas left Camp 2 and headed to Camp 4. Their mission was to recover Nath.
另外6名夏尔巴人在数小时后，沿着同样的路线，离开了2号营地，前往4号营地。他们的任务是找回纳特。
At 1:39 local time on a Wednesday afternoon, the recovery team searching for Ghosh got to his body.
当地时间周三下午1点39分，搜寻高希的小队找到了他的遗体。
The Sherpas connected Ghosh to a new rope, anchored in a rock about 30 feet uphill, and used ice axes to dig and pry the body from the snow. When the body moved, it moved as one piece, without torque, all the limbs, muscles and joints frozen solid. Dawa Finjhok Sherpa estimated the load weighed more than 300 pounds, double Ghosh’s weight when he was alive.
这些夏尔巴人把高希连接到一根新绳子上，固定在往上约30英尺的一块岩石上，然后用冰镐从雪中挖掘和撬出遗体。遗体移动时是整块移动，而非扭动，所有的四肢、肌肉和关节都冻住了。据达瓦·菲乔克·夏尔巴估计，遗体的重量超过300磅，是高希活着时体重的两倍。
They lowered him by rigging a pulley-type system through the same anchors used for climbers attempting the summit.
他们使用滑轮装置把遗体运到更低的地方，沿途经过供尝试登顶者所用的锚。
At dawn, Ghosh’s body arrived at the crampon point. The Sherpas assigned to get his body had been working nearly 28 hours, but Ghosh’s journey was held up, awaiting Nath and the helicopter that would carry them off the mountain.
拂晓时，高希的遗体运到了钉鞋点。负责找出他的遗体的这些夏尔巴人连续工作了近28个小时，不过高希的旅程暂停了，要等着找到纳特后，有直升机来把他们从山上运走。
The body of Nath, still in the red-and-black snowsuit that he sewed for himself, reached the crampon point at about 2 p.m. Thursday, May 25. He was wrapped in a malleable, plastic stretcher.
5月25日星期四下午2点左右，纳特的遗体运到了钉鞋点。他身上还穿着他自己缝制的红黑色风雪服。一个可伸缩的塑料担架把他的遗体裹了起来。
The Ghosh team came up the short distance from Camp 2, and coaxed both men downhill in their makeshift sleds. In an hour, they got to the helicopter landing spot.
高希搜索队从2号营地往上走了一小段路，用简易雪橇巧妙地把两具遗体往山下运。一个小时后，他们到达了直升机降落点。
When the Sherpas called to Base Camp, they were told the helicopter would not come that day.
当这些夏尔巴人呼叫大本营时，被告知直升机当天不会来。
What the Sherpas did not know, and what the families of Ghosh and Nath did not know, was that they were also waiting for the body of another Indian climber, one who had died just days before.
当时，这些夏尔巴人以及高希和纳特的家人所不知道的是，他们还在等待另一名印度登山者的遗体，那个人刚在几天前死去。
Seven Summits wanted to minimize the cost by ferrying three bodies down at once.
Seven Summits公司想把三具遗体一起运下去，以降低成本。
Finally, on May 28, a helicopter curled around the valley and touched down.
最后，在5月28日，一架直升机绕着山谷盘旋，降落了下来。
In the final report, the doctors listed the cause of Ghosh’s death as “undetermined.” A similar examination for Nath ended with the same conclusion.
在最后的报告中，医生将高希死亡的原因列为“不明确”。对纳特的类似检查也得出了同样的结论。
Nath’s body arrived in a hearse to the courtyard of his home, where a huge crowd awaited. The lid of the coffin was pried off, and the plastic wrap that encased his body was torn open at the head. A flag of the Durgapur Mountaineers Association was draped on top of him.
一辆灵车将纳特的遗体运到了他家的院子里，一大群人在那里等待。棺材盖被撬开了，装遗体的塑料包裹从头部被撕开。杜尔加布尔登山协会(Durgapur Mountaineers Association)的一面旗帜披在他胸前。
Sabita Nath sobbed, and held tight to her son, Adrishikar, now 10, who came face-to-face with the corpse of his father after a year of denying his death.
莎比塔·纳特抽泣着，紧紧抱住10岁儿子阿德里希卡(Adrishikar)，在拒绝接受父亲的去世一年后，他面对着父亲的遗体。
At the Ghosh house, Ghosh’s widow, Chandana, had changed clothes. Gone was the colorful sari, replaced by a white one with small, subtle flowers. She had no sindoor tilak, the vermilion smear along the hairline that signaled marriage, and no red bindi dot on her forehead.
在高希的家中，他的遗孀尚达娜换了衣服。色彩斑斓的沙丽被印着浅色小花的白色沙丽取代。她的发际线上没有表明已婚的朱砂，额头眉心间也没有红点。
The red and white bangles on her wrist were gone, too. While her husband’s body was cremated, she broke them. A year after her husband died on Everest, she was finally a widow.
她手腕上的红白色手镯也不见了。丈夫的遗体火化时，她打碎了它们。丈夫在珠峰上死去一年后，她终于成了一个寡妇。
The calendar on the bedroom wall still showed May 2016.
她卧室墙上的日历依然显示的是2016年5月。