TURNER, Me. — ONE hundred years ago today, Austro-Hungarian artillery and gunboats on the Danube began shelling Serbia — the first shots of the great cataclysm that over the next four and a half years would remake our world for the worse, in every conceivable way. We think of the First World War as having its causes in Europe, where the greatest bloodshed and destruction would take place. But several of the illusions that propelled the major powers so swiftly into war had their roots in far corners of the world.
缅因州特纳——一百年前的今天，奥匈帝国的大炮和多瑙河上的炮艇开始向塞尔维亚开炮，一场灾难性的大战就此打响，在接下来四年半的时间里，这场大灾难将以一切你能想象到的方式，让我们的世界堕入深渊。在我们看来，第一次世界大战是源于欧洲的，最严重的流血和毁坏发生在那里。然而，在促使一些大国如此迅速加入战争的错觉中，有一些是源于世界的某个遥远角落的。
The biggest illusion, of course, was that victory would be quick and easy. “You will be home,” Kaiser Wilhelm II of Germany told his troops, “before the leaves have fallen from the trees.” The German campaign plan called for knocking France out of the war in 42 days. The Allies were not quite so arrogant, but were confident of triumph in months, not years.
当然，最大的错觉就是，胜利将唾手可得。德皇威廉二世(Kaiser Wilhelm II)告诉他的士兵，“你们在树叶落地之前就能回家了。”德国的作战计划要求士兵们在42天内击败法国。协约国没有这么嚣张，但它们确信获胜只需要几个月，而不是几年。
A second illusion of those who marched proudly into battle in 1914 was that they would be shooting at the enemy, but that he would not be shooting back, or at least not effectively. How else to explain that most soldiers on both sides had no metal helmets? And that millions of French infantrymen, as well as the Austro-Hungarian cavalry, wore combat uniforms of brilliant red and blue? As the war began, troops from both sides advanced over open ground en masse, as if they were not facing repeating rifles and machine guns: bayonet charges by the French, and ranks of young Germans walking, arms linked, toward astonished British soldiers. The British would make plenty of similar suicidal advances of their own in the years ahead.
那些在1914年自豪地加入战争的国家的第二大错觉是，它们向敌人射击，不会遭到敌人反击，至少不会遭到有效反击。要不然怎么会出现以下情况呢？——交战双方的大部分士兵都没有金属头盔，数百万法国步兵和奥匈帝国骑兵身穿亮红色和蓝色的作战服。随着战争的开始，双方的士兵一同向空旷场地前进，仿佛他们面前没有连发步枪和机枪：法军举着刺刀冲杀，一排排年轻德国人手挽手朝着惊讶的英国士兵行进。在未来的几年里，英国人自己也会多次发起类似的自杀式前进。
Where were these illusions born? They came from the way generals cherry-picked previous wars to learn from. A close look at the siege of Petersburg, Va., in the American Civil War, for instance, would have provided a lesson in trench warfare — and a sense of what it meant to be under fire from an early ancestor of the machine gun, the Gatling gun. A similar foretaste of both trench warfare and the power of the machine gun could be had by studying the siege of Port Arthur (now Dalian, China) in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-5.
为什么会有这些错觉呢？将领们是从精挑细选的过往战例中寻求借鉴的，这种挑选使他们产生了错觉。例如，仔细研究弗吉尼亚州彼得斯堡在美国内战中遭到围困的例子，就会得到有关堑壕战的经验，体会遭到机枪的先祖——加特林机枪攻击的感觉，研究1904至1095年俄日战争亚瑟港（今中国大连）围城战，也同样会预先体验堑壕战和机枪的威力。
But the men who led Europe into the First World War found it more comforting to look elsewhere — at battles where victory was swift and the enemy had little firepower. In 1914 Europe had not had a major war in more than 40 years and, except for the Russians, almost all officers who had actually seen combat had done so in lopsided colonial wars in Africa and Asia.
但将欧洲推入一战的人发现，还是多看看另一些战争更舒适，在那些战争中，胜利来得很快，敌人也没什么火力。1914年的时候，欧洲已有40多年没有出现大规模战争了，除了俄罗斯人，几乎所有真正经历过战争的军官都在非洲及亚洲实力悬殊的殖民战中迅速获胜。
Erich von Falkenhayn, for example, chief of the German General Staff for the first two years of the war, had been in the international force that suppressed the anti-Western Boxer Rebellion in China in 1900. Another veteran of that campaign — and of military service in Indochina and Algeria — was Robert Nivelle, later the French commander on the Western Front and the leader of a 1917 offensive that left 120,000 French soldiers dead or wounded and sparked a mutiny. Joseph Joffre, Nivelle’s predecessor, had served in Indochina and Madagascar, and had led an expedition across the Sahara to conquer Timbuktu. Most of the British generals had served in the colonies; when war broke out, Britain had more troops on active duty in India alone than in the British Isles.
例如，在战争头两年担任德国总参谋部(German General Staff)总参谋长的埃里希·冯·法金汉(Erich von Falkenhayn)，就是在1900年镇压中国的反西方义和团运动的国际力量之一。参与这场战争的老兵罗贝尔·尼韦勒(Robert Nivelle)还在印度支那和阿尔及利亚服役。尼韦勒后来成为西部前线的法军指挥官，领导了1917年的一次进攻，结果导致12万名法国士兵死伤，引发了一场哗变。在尼韦勒之前担任指挥官的约瑟夫·若弗尔(Joseph Joffre)曾在印度支那和马达加斯加参战，并带领士兵穿越撒哈拉沙漠，占领廷巴克图。大多数英国将领都曾在殖民地服役；战争爆发时，仅在印度的英军现役士兵数量就已经超过了不列颠群岛驻军总和。
Colonial wars seldom lasted long because the German, French and British Armies had modern rifles, machine guns and small mobile artillery pieces, as well as steamboats and railroads that could move men and weapons as needed. The Africans and Asians usually had none of these things.
殖民战争往往不会持续很久，因为德国、法国和英国的军队拥有现代步枪、机枪和小型移动火炮，还有轮船和铁路，可以在需要时运输人员和武器。而非洲人和亚洲人通常没有这些东西。
In 1898, for example, a whole panoply of British officers (including Winston Churchill) who would later fight in Europe were on hand for a battle at Omdurman, in Sudan. The 50,000 Sudanese they faced were armed only with spears, swords and antiquated rifles. In a few hours, the six Maxim machine guns of the far smaller Anglo-Egyptian force fired half a million bullets, leaving nearly 11,000 Sudanese dead and some 16,000 wounded, many fatally. The battle determined the outcome of a war in less than a day.
例如，在1898年，一群趾高气昂的英国军官（其中包括温斯顿·丘吉尔[Winston Churchill]）在苏丹恩图曼打仗，这些人后来还会参加一战。当时他们迎战的5万名苏丹人只装备了矛、剑和老古董步枪。数个小时之内，人数少得多的英埃联军就用六架马克西姆机枪发射了50万发子弹，导致近1.1万名苏丹人丧生，约1.6万人受伤，其中很多不治身亡。这场战斗在不到一天的时间里，就决定了一场战争的胜负。
The miraculous new gun “is a weapon,” wrote the Army and Navy Journal, “which is specially adapted to terrify a barbarous or semi-civilised foe.” The Europeans were so enraptured by the power the machine gun gave them over colonial rebels that they never bothered to plan seriously for facing the weapon themselves.
这些神奇的新式枪械“是一种专门适用于恐吓未开化或半开化敌人的武器”，《陆军和海军杂志》(Army and Navy Journal)写道。机枪赋予了欧洲人打击殖民地反抗者的强大力量，他们对此十分欣喜，以至于从来没有费心去为这些武器瞄准他们自己的情况做过认真规划。
Yet another illusion on both sides in 1914 was that a key force would be the cavalry. After all, hadn’t cavalry service been a path to military glory for more than 2,000 years? At the Cavalry Club on London’s Piccadilly Circus and its counterparts in Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg and Vienna, officers eagerly anticipated more of the same. The initial German invasions of France and Belgium, for example, included eight cavalry divisions with more than 40,000 horses — the largest such body ever sent into battle in Western Europe. Tens of thousands of the unfortunate animals were laboriously shipped to the front over great distances: to the Middle East from New Zealand, to Belgium from Canada, to France from India.
1914年时，双方的另一个错觉是，骑兵将是一股关键力量。毕竟，在以往的2000多年中，骑兵不都是通向军人荣光的道路吗？在伦敦的皮卡迪利广场的骑兵俱乐部(Cavalry Club)，以及在巴黎、柏林、圣彼得堡和维也纳的同类机构，军官们都热切期待着骑兵能带来更多荣光。例如，德国最初入侵法国和比利时，动用了八个骑兵师，共计逾4万匹战马——在西欧历史上，这是被派上阵的最大规模的骑兵队伍。成千上万头倒霉的牲口，被人不远万里运往前线：从新西兰到中东，从加拿大到比利时，从印度到法国。
Faith in the cavalry also sprang from colonial wars. British horsemen made a charge at Omdurman and did so far more spectacularly a year and a half later in another colonial conflict, the Boer War. Masked by an immense cloud of dust kicked up by thousands of galloping horses, the British successfully charged, almost unscathed, through Boer forces besieging the town of Kimberley, in present-day South Africa. “An epoch in the history of cavalry,” declared the London Times history of that war. “A staggering success,” read a German General Staff report on the battle.
人们对骑兵的信念同样受到了殖民战争的影响。英国骑兵在恩图曼发起冲锋的一年半之后，又在另一个殖民地冲突布尔战争(Boer War)中，进行了一次场面更为壮观的冲锋。在今属南非的金伯利镇，英国人的数千匹奔腾战马卷起巨大的尘埃云，成功地穿透了围城的布尔军队，几乎毫发无损。“这是骑兵史上的一个新纪元，”伦敦《泰晤士报》(Times)在讲述那场战争的历史时宣称。“一次惊人的成功，”德国总参谋部(German General Staff)的一份关于该战役的报告中写道。