MONTREAL — The first day of July is a federal holiday in Canada that celebrates the anniversary of the country’s creation in 1867. But in Quebec, the date is important in a more personal way.
蒙特利尔——7月的第一天是加拿大的联邦节日，庆祝该国在1867年成立。但在魁北克，这个日子的重要性体现在更个人的方面。
Most residential leases here begin at the start of July, and because renting is more popular than owning, July 1 has become Moving Day for much of the population. By the city’s estimate, about 115,000 of Montreal’s 1.6 million residents relocate every July.
当地的大多数房屋从7月初开始起租，因为租房比买房更常见，7月1日就成了大多数人的搬家日(Moving Day)。据该市估计，在蒙特利尔的160万人口中，大约有11.5万市民在每年的7月1日搬家。
On Monday, an armada of rented moving vans jockeyed for position with overloaded pickup trucks and trailers. Electronic message boards above the expressways warned movers to ensure that their loads were secure. Merchants advertised promotions for essentials like cardboard boxes and packing tape.
周一，一辆辆租来的搬家车和装满家具的皮卡车以及拖车争抢车位。高速公路上的电子信息牌提醒搬迁者确保他们的物品被安全地装载在车里。商家大力推广必备品的销售，如纸箱和包装胶带。
“It’s really crazy, really crazy,” said Linda St. Laurent, who was helping her son move into an apartment on Rue Bordeaux, a process that involved five family cars, each stuffed with belongings; a pickup truck; and a small trailer.
“这真够疯狂，真够疯狂，”琳达·圣劳伦(Linda St. Laurent)说。她正帮助儿子搬到波尔多街的一个公寓里。这一过程需要调用五辆私家车，每一辆都装满了东西；一辆皮卡车；还有一个小拖车。
A few blocks away, as Philippe Lefevre prepared to set off in his pickup truck, he unleashed an expletive or two and wondered aloud: “One day a year, everybody moves. Why can’t you move when you want?”
几个街区外，当菲利普·勒费夫尔(Philippe Lefevre)准备启动自己的皮卡车时，他骂了一两句脏话，并大声说：“大家都在一年的这一天搬家。为什么不能想搬就搬呢？”
The inefficiencies and frustrations that come from concentrating moves into a single day are obvious. Even movers and truck rental companies, which at least double their normal rates near July 1, would prefer that their business be spread out more evenly throughout the year.
在一天时间里集中搬迁的低效率和挫败感相当明显。甚至连搬家公司和卡车出租公司（这些公司在临近7月1日时的价格至少两倍于平时）也希望他们的生意能更均匀地分布在一年里。
It is far from clear why most leases still start on July 1, some 40 years after the law requiring the practice was changed.
让人完全搞不明白的是，为什么大多数房屋是从7月1日起租？毕竟规定此行为的法律在大约40年前已被修改。
“I think it’s because we’re conservative and don’t want to change,” said Rudel Caron, the Quebec regional vice president of sales and operations for the office supply chain Bureau en Gros, which runs bubble wrap and packing supply promotions around Moving Day. “Moving is not lot of fun, but it becomes fun at the end of the day when everyone has a good beer and pizza.”
“我想这是因为我们很保守，不愿做出改变，”办公用品供应连锁商Bureau en Gros公司负责销售和运营的魁北克区副总裁鲁德尔·卡伦(Rudel Caron)说，该公司在搬家日前后那段时期促销气泡包装膜和包装用品。“搬家没什么意思，但当大家在这天结束后喝着啤酒吃着披萨，那就有意思多了。”
Jean-Philippe Warren, a sociologist at Concordia University here, said the factors behind Moving Day are more complex than sheer stubbornness.
康考迪亚大学(Concordia University)的社会学家让·菲利普·瓦朗(Jean-Philippe Warren)说，搬家日背后的原因比单纯的墨守陈规复杂多了。
Fixed lease dates are a legacy of 18th-century Quebec, when it was a French colony. Mr. Warren said that Quebec simply followed French laws of the time, which set May 1 as the beginning date for all legal agreements, including leases.
固定起租日是18世纪魁北克的遗产，当时魁北克还是法国的殖民地。瓦朗说，魁北克沿用法国当时的法律，法律规定5月1日是所有法律协议的起始日，包括租约。
Forgotten in France, the May 1 lease law persisted in Quebec until the 1970s. It was unpopular in its own way. Carole Rondeau, who was helping her two nieces move about half a mile on Monday, recalled that her classmates would suddenly disappear from school when she was growing up as their families moved out of her neighborhood.
这一法律已被法国遗忘，但5月1日起租的规定继续在魁北克留存，直到上世纪70年代。这一规定并不受人欢迎。卡罗勒· 龙多(Carole Rondeau)在周一帮助她的两个侄女搬到半英里之外的地方。据她回忆，小时候她的同学会突然从学校消失，因为同学的家庭搬出了她所在的社区。
In 1973, a new law ended any required lease date and extended all leases until July 1, 1974, in a bid to end the disruption to the school year.
1973年，新法律规定取消特定的起租日，并把所有租约延续到1974年7月1日，以此来避免对学年造成干扰。
But Mr. Warren said July 1, against all obvious logic, has persisted as Moving Day. French-speaking Quebecers, he said, move far more frequently than most Canadians, but they generally do not stray beyond their neighborhood. Some move from one side of the street to the other, and it is just more convenient to make such apartment swaps all on the same day.
但瓦朗说，7月1日继续被当做搬家日，这违反了所有明显的逻辑。他说，说法语的魁北克人比大多数加拿大人搬得更勤，但他们通常不会搬出社区之外。有的人只是从街的一边搬到另一边，这样的话，在同一天交换公寓会更便利。
“They are constantly on the move, but they don’t go anywhere,” he said.
“他们一直都在搬，但他们不会搬太远，”他说。
The inconveniences are many. Montreal, where 62.1 percent of the population rents, has unique disadvantages for movers aside from the many narrow streets. In a bid to increase apartments’ floor space, there are few staircases inside buildings, and the steps are cramped and winding and open to the elements. And unlike apartments in the rest of Canada, the ones here rarely come with kitchen appliances, adding to the movers’ burdens.
不便之处有很多。62.1%的蒙特利尔人口都在租房。除了有着很多狭窄街道，该市还给搬家者带来了独特的不便之处。为了增加公寓的地面面积，公寓楼内的楼梯很少，且台阶狭窄弯曲，还暴露在户外。和加拿大其他地方的公寓不同，这里的公寓很少有配套的厨房设施，从而增加了搬家者的负担。
The moving-related trash, which sometimes gets in the way of other movers, costs the city about $10 million in cleanup costs.
搬迁产生的垃圾有时会挡住其他搬家者的路，也给该市产生了大约1000万美元的清理费。
Perhaps it is the widespread availability of relatively affordable apartments in Montreal, but many residents appear willing to overlook all the bother of Moving Day for the promise of a better apartment. 
为了获得更好的住处，很多居民似乎愿意忽略搬家日的所有不便，这或许也是因为相对平价的公寓在蒙特利尔广泛可及。
Moving companies and truck rental firms cannot meet all the demands of Moving Day. Robert Lalonde, the vice president for Quebec of Discount, a rental firm, said his company doubled its rates on Monday and was expected to rent out each of its 1,000 trucks at least three times. Tom Filgiano, the president of Meldrum the Mover, said potential customers will start calling his office later this week about Moving Day 2014, although he will not accept bookings until next spring. “We would love to be like the rest of North America,” he said somewhat wistfully.
搬家公司和卡车出租公司无法在搬家日满足所有需求。租车公司Quebec of Discount的副总裁罗贝尔·拉隆德 (Robert Lalonde)说，他的公司在周一把租价翻倍，并预计公司1000辆卡车中的每一辆都会出租三次。搬家公司Meldrum the Mover的总裁汤姆·菲尔吉阿诺(Tom Filgiano)说，潜在客户会在本周晚些时候把电话打到他的办公室，预订2014年搬家日的车，尽管他在明天春天之前不会接收预订。“我们非常想变得像北美其他地方一样，”他怅惘地说道。