The painful subjects of mourning and burying the dead are drawing attention at museums and auction houses, while some attractions in the field are reaching the ends of their runs.
悼念和埋葬死者的痛苦主题正引起博物馆和拍卖公司的注意，虽然这一领域的某些具有吸引力的物品正走向末路。
In the last year the Museum of Death in Los Angeles opened a New Orleans branch, where coffins and autopsy equipment are displayed, and a show at the Palace of Versailles, “The King Is Dead” (through Feb. 21), commemorates the 300th anniversary of Louis XIV’s fatal bout of gangrene and examines his embalmment, elaborate funeral and interment. There have been shows and books about Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, the graves of early Maryland settlers, the evolution of gravestone and coffin makers’ tools, the significance of photographing corpses and mourning attire.
去年，洛杉矶的死亡博物馆(Museum of Death)在新奥尔良开了一个分馆，展示棺材和验尸设备。凡尔赛宫(Palace of Versailles)的展览“国王死了”（The King Is Dead，持续至2月21日）纪念路易十四(Louis XIV)去世300周年，展示他尸体的最后一轮严重腐烂，以及尸体的防腐处理和复杂的殡葬仪式。还有很多展览和书籍讲述布鲁克林的绿树林公墓(Green-Wood Cemetery)，布朗克斯的树林草地公墓(Woodlawn Cemetery)，马里兰早期定居者的墓地，墓碑和棺材制作工具的演变，以及拍摄尸体和丧服的重要意义。
Funeral homes, cemeteries and related businesses have set up exhibition spaces, including the Simpson Funeral Museum in Chatham, Va., and the Jackson Funeral Services Museum in Newport, Ark. The National Museum of Funeral History in Houston has acquired the museum collection of Redinger Funeral Home in Seiling, Okla., and in Illinois, items from a funeral museum in Springfield that closed in 2009 have been transferred to the Kibbe Museum in Carthage.
很多殡仪馆和墓地以及其他一些相关产业设立了展览空间，包括弗吉尼亚州查塔姆的辛普森葬礼博物馆(Simpson Funeral Museum)和阿肯色州纽波特的杰克逊葬礼服务博物馆(Jackson Funeral Services Museum)。休斯敦的美国国家葬礼历史博物馆(The National Museum of Funeral History)获得了俄克拉何马州锡灵的雷丁杰殡仪馆(Redinger Funeral Home)的藏品。伊利诺伊州斯普林菲尔德的一家葬礼博物馆于2009年关闭，它的藏品移交给了迦太基的基布博物馆(Kibbe Museum)。
On Jan. 22, Sotheby’s in New York will offer much of the collection of the Museum of Mourning Art, which was maintained by the Arlington Cemetery in Drexel Hill, Penn. (The cemetery’s website described it as a “permanent museum.” Well, tempus fugit.) The material comes from the estate of Irvin and Anita Schorsch, collectors whose family has long owned the cemetery; they displayed it in a building modeled after George Washington’s home, Mount Vernon. The Sotheby’s lots include a miniature model skeleton in a matching mahogany coffin ($300 to $500), invitations to British funerals held between 1694 and 1781 (a group of 11 is estimated to bring $800 to $1,200) and a wrought-iron British gun used to deter intruders in cemeteries ($300 to $500). Gold jewelry commemorating deceased loved ones contains images of gravestones, skulls and skeletons as well as wisps of hair said to have come from George Washington ($8,000 to $12,000).
1月22日，苏富比拍卖行(Sotheby’s)纽约分部将拍卖哀悼艺术博物馆(Museum of Mourning Art)的大部分藏品，这些藏品由宾夕法尼亚德雷克赛尔山的阿灵顿公墓(Arlington Cemetery)维护（这家公墓的网站曾说该博物馆是“永恒的博物馆”。呃，光阴似箭）。这些藏品来自欧文和安妮塔·朔尔施(Irvin and Anita Schorsch)的遗产。这两位收藏家的家族长期以来拥有这家公墓。他们在一个模仿乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)弗农山庄(Mount Vernon)所建造的建筑里展示这些藏品。苏富比的拍品包括放在配套红木棺材里的一个微缩骨架模型（300至500美元）；1694年至1781年在英国举办的葬礼的请柬（共11份，估价为800至1200美元）；以及一把用熟铁做成的用来阻止墓地入侵者的英式枪（300至500美元）。纪念去世爱人的金饰中，包含了墓碑、头骨和骷髅的图片，以及一缕据说来自乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)的头发（8000至1.2万美元）。
Some of the field’s more outlandish auction lots last year included a grave marker for Marilyn Monroe that was later replaced; it sold for $212,500 at Julien’s Auctions in Beverly Hills, Calif. A gold mourning ring dated 1776, commemorating a New Hampshire sea captain named Gregory Purcell, sold for $3,360 at Northeast Auctions in Portsmouth, N.H. The ring is on view in Portsmouth at the former boardinghouse of his widow, Sarah Purcell — now a museum named after her most famous tenant, the naval hero John Paul Jones.
去年，该领域更奇怪的拍卖品包括玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)后来被换掉的一块墓碑；它在加利福尼亚州贝弗利山朱利安拍卖公司(Julien’s Auctions)的拍卖会上以21.25万美元售出。在新罕布什尔州朴茨茅斯东北拍卖公司(Northeast Auctions)的拍卖会上，1776年的一枚用来纪念新罕布什尔一位名叫格雷戈里·珀塞尔(Gregory Purcell)的海军上校的金戒指以3360美元售出。这枚戒指在朴茨茅斯他遗孀萨拉·珀塞尔(Sarah Purcell)的故居里展示。这所公寓现在变成了一座博物馆，以她最著名的房客、海军英雄约翰·保罗·琼斯(John Paul Jones)命名。
Gerald W. R. Ward, a curator for the Portsmouth Historical Society, said the ring tends to cause “some sort of amazement and confusion” in visitors as they learn about the early American practice of remembering loved ones with rings inscribed with death dates.
朴茨茅斯历史协会(Portsmouth Historical Society)的策展人杰拉尔德·W·R·沃德(Gerald W. R. Ward)说，观众们了解到早期美国的做法是用刻着死亡日期的戒指来纪念逝世的爱人，也许会产生“某种惊讶和迷惑的感觉”。
Souvenir Art From China
来自中国的纪念品艺术
The first waves of European and American maritime traders to reach Chinese ports returned home with souvenir paintings depicting the slivers of harbors where Westerners were allowed to work, shop and sightsee. Chinese artists tailored the images to appeal to tourists. They accurately rendered the steeples of churches where foreigners worshiped amid pagodas, as well as international flags flying over colonnaded wharf buildings and ship riggings.
第一批到达中国港口的欧洲和美国航海商人，回国时带回了一些描绘港口风情的绘画纪念品，那些港口曾允许西方人工作、购物和游览。中国艺术家们为了迎合游客们的喜好对图画略作修改。他们在宝塔中细致地加上外国人祈祷的教堂的尖顶，在有廊柱的码头建筑和船只索具上画上飘扬的国际旗帜。
Dozens of these views from the 18th and 19th centuries, painted on silk, canvas, paper and sheets of glass, will go on sale next week in New York.
下周，几十幅画在丝绸、帆布、纸或玻璃板上的十八九世纪的绘画将继续在纽约拍卖。
From Thursday to Jan. 31, China trade paintings from the Martyn Gregory Gallery in London (with prices into the five figures) will fill rooms at the Mallett antiques store in New York. From next Friday to Jan. 24, dealers, including Earle D. Vandekar of Knightsbridge and Vincent Callahan, will bring related artworks to the Art, Design & Antiques Show at St. Ignatius Loyola Church on Park Avenue. From Wednesday to next Friday, Sotheby’s and Christie’s will offer Chinese harbor and ship panoramas as well as portraits of merchants and trade officials, with estimates from $3,000 to $40,000 each. Bonhams will follow suit in a Jan. 28 sale with paintings estimated from $700 to $35,000.
从1月31日周四起，伦敦马丁·格雷戈里画廊(Martyn Gregory Gallery)的中国贸易绘画（售价达到数万美元）将摆满纽约马利特古董店(Mallett)的展厅。从下周五（1月22日）至1月24日，交易商们——包括骑士桥公司(Knightsbridge)的厄尔·D·凡德卡(ekar.com/">Earle D. Vandekar)和文森特·卡拉汉(Vincent Callahan)——将把相关的艺术品带到公园大道(Park Avenue)圣伊格内修斯·洛约拉教堂(St. Ignatius Loyola Church)的艺术、设计和古董展(Art, Design & Antiques Show)上。从周三（1月13日）至下周五（1月22日），苏富比和佳士得将拍卖中国港口和轮船全景图以及商人和贸易官员的肖像画，每件作品的估价为3000美元至4万美元。邦汉姆拍卖行(Bonhams)将于1月28日举办类似的拍卖会，所拍卖的绘画作品的估价为700美元至3.5万美元。
Because the works were rarely dated, researchers did some sleuthing to determine the age of the paintings: exploring when particular flag designs were introduced, various buildings were finished or burned down, and different types of ships and specific vessels embarked or ended up wrecked. Occasionally the works can be dated because they were copied from prints or photographs; labels on some now at Christie’s advertised the artist’s ability to turn daguerreotypes into paintings.
因为这些艺术品很少标注日期，研究者们通过一些线索确定绘画作品的年代：研究旗帜的某种设计是何时推出的，不同的建筑是何时建成或烧毁的，不同种类以及特定的船只是何时开始使用或失事的。有些作品的日期得以确定是因为它们是一些出版物或照片的临摹作品；佳士得在某些作品的标签上赞扬艺术家们把银版照片变成绘画的能力。
A handful of the pieces for sale this month are signed or attributed to recognized painters, including Guan Zuolin (known to Western patrons as Spoilum) and his grandson Guan Qiao Chang (also called Lamqua). Little is known of the artists’ lives and work habits. The shoreline workshops all used similar inexpensive pigments, which often develop spidery cracks. They collaborated with one another; different employees would specialize in rendering ships, faces or landscape details.
本月拍卖的少量作品拥有知名画家的签名，或被认为出自知名画家之手，包括关作霖（西方客户称其为"Spoilum"）及孙子关乔昌（也被称为"Lamqua"）。关于这些艺术家的生活和工作习惯，我们知之甚少。沿海的画坊都是使用相似的廉价颜料，经常会出现细长的裂缝。他们相互协作，雇员们各有特长，比如擅长画船、面部肖像或风景画的细节。
A few of the paintings now on the market show disasters striking, such as fires that leveled harbor towns and storms that swamped ships. But mostly the artists depict calm streets, idyllic motionless waters, clear skies and unwrinkled puffed sails, with a few floating brothels set up for foreigners.
现在市面上的一些油画展示灾难破坏，比如把海港城镇夷为平地的大火和淹没轮船的暴风雨。但是大多数时候，艺术家们描绘平静的街道、田园诗般的平静海水、清澈的天空、鼓起的平滑风帆，以及几艘为外国人服务的水上妓院。
Becky MacGuire, a senior specialist at Christie’s, said that “stillness” was a common theme in the trading port scenery.
贝姬·麦圭尔(Becky MacGuire)是佳士得的一位高级专家。她说，“平静”是贸易港口风景画的一个常见主题。