Breast-feeding is widely encouraged for its many positive health effects, but the claim that it reduces the risk for childhood obesity may be going too far. A randomized trial has found that even long-term exclusive breast feeding has no effect on obesity or stature in childhood.
母乳喂养可在健康方面带来多种积极的作用，因此得到了普遍的鼓励，不过，说母乳喂养有可能会减少儿童时期肥胖的可能性，这种说法可能过头了。一项随机测试发现，即使是长期的全母乳喂养，对孩子儿童期的肥胖或身形也没有影响。
Researchers studied more than 13,000 breast-feeding mother-infant pairs in 31 maternity hospitals in Belarus in 1996 and 1997. About half the mothers followed a breast-feeding promotion program developed by the World Health Organization, while the rest received usual care.
研究者的对象是自1996年至1997年，白俄罗斯的31间妇产医院接收的1.3万多名母乳喂养的母亲和她们的孩子。其中大约半数母亲加入了由世卫组织(World Health Organization)开发的母乳喂养推广计划，而其余母亲则接受通常的医护服务。
At three months, 43 percent of the women in the W.H.O. program were still exclusively breast-feeding, compared with 6 percent in the control group; by six months, the figures were 7.8 percent for those in the program and 0.6 percent for the controls.
在生育后三个月时，加入WHO计划的女性中仍有43%在坚持全母乳喂养，而在对照组中继续全母乳喂养的为6%；而到了六个月时，WHO组的女性有7.8%在继续母乳喂养，对照组的比例为0.6%。
The study, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, followed the children through age 11 and found no significant effect on either weight or height. Body mass index, percent body fat and the prevalence of obesity or excess weight were slightly higher in the children breast-fed longer, but the difference was statistically insignificant.
这份刊登在《美国医学会杂志》(The Journal of the American Medical Association)的研究一直跟踪被访儿童直至11岁，结果发现是否母乳喂养对其体重和身高都没有产生显著的影响。在接受母乳喂养时间较长的儿童中，他们的身体质量指数(Body mass index)、体脂率和肥胖或超重的比例略微高了一些，但这种区别并不具有统计学意义。
“There are lots of good reasons to breast-feed,” said the senior author, Dr. Emily Oken, an associate professor of population medicine at Harvard, “and just because we saw no evidence for obesity doesn’t mean women should stop breast-feeding.”
该研究的资深作者、哈佛大学人口医学副教授艾米莉·奥肯(Emily Oken)医生说：“你可以找到很多很好的出发点进行母乳喂养，我们没找到它对减少肥胖危险的证据，并不意味着女性就要停止母乳喂养了。”