BEIJING — Surveillance cameras captured the slow-moving S.U.V. hitting a 2-year-old girl who had veered into its path.
北京——监控摄像机捕捉到了一辆开得很慢的运动型多功能车(SUV)把一个突然出现在车前的2岁女孩撞倒的一幕。
Her mother, trailing behind on a street in a provincial Chinese city, had been glued to her phone and did not see the vehicle coming. By the time an ambulance arrived, the girl had died.
这一幕出现在中国一个小城市的街道上，跟在女孩后边的妈妈一直在低头看手机，没看到开过来的车。等救护车到达时，女孩已经死亡。
In China, people are texting and shopping on their smartphones in droves, and many do so while on the move. Approximately 710 million people, or 92 percent of the country’s internet users, go online via their smartphones, a more than twofold increase since 2012, government data shows. About a quarter of those use only their smartphones.
很多中国人在他们的智能手机上不停地发短信和购物，而且不少人在走路时也这样做。政府的数据显示，约有7.1亿人通过智能手机上网，占全国互联网用户的92％，与2012年相比，用手机上网的人数增加了两倍多。大约四分之一的互联网用户只用手机上网。
But the toddler’s death last month, in Yueyang, in the southern province of Hunan, has prompted hand-wringing on Chinese social media about the perils of overusing smartphones. Even a local government agency weighed in last week, calling for people to cut back on their smartphone use.
但是，上个月在湖南岳阳发生的小女孩死亡事件，已在中国的社交媒体上引发了人们对过度使用智能手机的危害的烦恼。 就连一家地方政府机构也在上周加入了这场讨论中来，呼吁人们减少智能手机的使用。
“Heart-wrenching!” the Shandong provincial prosecutor’s office wrote on Weibo, China’s version of Twitter. “Put down your phone. Save the children!”
“心痛！”山东省人民检察院在其官方微博上写道。“放下手机，救救孩子！”
The death of Tutu, as the girl was identified in Chinese news reports, is just the latest example of how “distracted walking” can threaten public safety.
被中国新闻报道称为“Tutu”的女孩的死亡，只是“走路分心”威胁公共安全的最新例证。
In August last year, a 2-year-old boy in the central province of Henan died after being struck by an S.U.V. near a shopping mall while his mother was engrossed in her phone. And in April, another 2-year-old boy with a phone-addled mother was run over and killed in the eastern province of Anhui.
去年8月，在中部省份河南，一名2岁男童在某商场附近被一辆SUV撞倒后死亡，他的母亲当时正在玩手机。4月，在东部省份安徽，又有一名2岁男童从全神贯注在手机上的母亲身边跑开后，死于车祸。
Liu Qinxue, an expert on smartphone addiction at Central China Normal University in Wuhan, said the Yueyang accident could serve as a warning to those who take smartphone use for granted.
武汉华中师范大学智能手机上瘾症方面的专家刘勤学表示，有些人认为使用智能手机是理所当然的事情，岳阳的事故对他们是个警告。
Such use “has existed for a long time, and people normally do not think about the potential dangers it might bring,” Professor Liu said. “There’s not enough discussion or awareness.”
人们对手机的使用“已经有很长时间了，不过大家一般不会去考虑这种使用可能带来的危害。”刘教授说。“这方面还没有足够的讨论和意识。”
Officials in China have documented and publicized the risks of calling or texting while driving.
中国官员记录并公布了开车时打电话或发短信的风险。
In 2014, for example, the Shanghai police said that calling or texting while driving had caused nearly 30 percent of 690 fatal automobile accidents between January and October of that year, according to a report in China’s state-run news media. The city’s police installed high-definition traffic cameras to identify motorists who use smartphones while driving, and offenders are fined 200 renminbi, or around $30, and penalized through a points system.
例如，中国官方新闻媒体的一份报道称，上海警方在2014年表示，在那一年的1月至10月期间，共发生了690起导致人员死亡的车辆事故，其中司机在开车时打电话或发短信的情况占到了近30%。该市的警察安装了高清交通摄像头，以便识别开车时使用智能手机的驾驶者，违者将被处以200元人民币罚款，还要扣分。
In March, a lawmaker from the central province of Hubei proposed in the national legislature that drivers who use phones while on the road be criminally charged.
今年3月，来自中部省份湖北的人大代表在国家立法机关建议，将开车玩手机入刑。
But policy makers in many countries have paid far less attention to the problem of “distracted walking,” according to a 2015 study in the Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering. The study added that pedestrian-crash data was not yet detailed enough for researchers to determine a link between distracted walking and safety problems.
但是，《交通运输工程杂志》(Journal of Traffic and Transportation Engineering)2015年的一项研究显示，很多国家的政策制定者对“走路时分心”问题关注不多。该研究称，行人被撞的数据还不够详细，研究人员无法确定“走路时分心”和安全问题之间的联系。
In Hong Kong, subway stations have signs that warn commuters not to stare at mobile phones on escalators. Officials in Seoul, the South Korean capital, announced recently that the city would install outdoor pedestrian signs that warn of the dangers of texting while walking.
在香港，地铁站挂有标志，警告乘客不要在自动扶梯上玩手机。韩国首都首尔的官员最近宣布，该市将安装户外标志，警告行人在走路时发短信很危险。
But such signs are rarely, if ever, seen in mainland China.
但是这样的标志在中国大陆很少见。
Analysts say that smartphones dominate people’s lives because they offer seemingly unlimited stimulation.
分析人士说，智能手机占领了人们的生活，因为它们带来了似乎无穷无尽的刺激感。
“The presence of devices that are always on and always on you, that are always stimulating and offer a constant ‘feed’ of stimulation, have led us to a new kind of psychological state: ‘I share, therefore I am,’” said Sherry Turkle, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies the relationship between humans and digital devices.
“这种设备总是开着机，总是在你身边，总是令人刺激，可以一直提供刺激因素，它的存在已经让我们具有了一种新的心理状态，‘我分享故我在’，”研究人类和数字设备之间关系的麻省理工学院教授雪莉·特克尔(Sherry Turkle)说道。
Professor Turkle said in an email that a declining capacity for solitude and self-reflection had given rise to a dependence on smartphones and created a need for phone-free “sacred spaces.”
特克尔在一封电子邮件中说，孤独和反省的能力下降促进了人们对智能手机的依赖，也创造了对没有手机的“神圣空间”的需要。
“Talk to your co-workers, talk to your family,” she said. “Never bring a phone to a meal. No phones in the car. No phones at meetings or in classrooms. We can find our way back to each other.”
“和同事聊一聊，和家人聊一聊，”她说。“去吃饭的时候不要带手机。汽车里禁用手机。会议室或教室里禁用手机。我们就能把注意力放回彼此身上。”
Many Chinese social media users have echoed that sentiment since the death of the 2-year-old in Yueyang.
岳阳2岁女童去世后，中国社交媒体上的很多用户也表达了类似的看法。
“Head-down tribes, it’s time to lift your head now,” one commenter wrote on Weibo, using a popular Chinese nickname for smartphone obsessives.
一位评论者在微博上写道：“低头族，现在是时候抬起你的头了。”低头族是中国对智能手机沉迷者的一个常用称呼。