Can you name a miracle food that is universally available, free and can save children’s lives and maybe even make them smarter?
你能说出一种神奇的食物，可普遍获取、免费、能拯救婴儿的生命，甚至能让他们变得更聪慧吗？
That’s not a trick question. There really is such a substance, now routinely squandered, that global health experts believe could save more than 800,000 lives annually. While you’re puzzling over the answer, let me tell you how I just saw it save a life here in West Africa.
这不是脑筋急转弯。确实存在这样一种物质，虽然现在经常被浪费，但全球健康专家认为，它有望每年拯救80多万条生命。在你苦苦思索答案之际，请让我讲述一个亲眼见到它在西部非洲拯救生命的故事。
I’m on my annual win-a-trip journey, in which I take a university student along with me so we can report on global poverty. The winner, Erin Luhmann of the University of Wisconsin, and I randomly stopped in a village near the Malian town of Mopti to ask about food shortages.
我正在年度“与纪思道同行”的路上，在该活动中，我带着一名大学生共同旅行，一起报道全球贫困问题。今年赢得此行的是威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)的埃琳·卢曼(Erin Luhmann)。我们随机地决定在马里莫普提镇附近的一个村庄停下，询问粮食短缺问题。
Then we spotted a baby boy who was starving to death. The infant, only 3 weeks old, was wizened from severe malnutrition and had the empty, unresponsive face of a child shutting down everything else to keep his organs functioning.
就在那时，我们看到一个即将饿死的男婴。他只有三周大，因为严重营养不良而十分干瘪，脸上带有停摆一切以保证器官运作的孩子的典型呆滞表情。
The teenage mother, Seyda Allaye, said that she didn’t have much milk and that the baby wasn’t nursing well. She saw that he was dying and that morning had invested in cow’s milk in hopes of saving him.
孩子的母亲赛义达·阿拉耶(Seyda Allaye)十几岁大，她说自己奶水不多，孩子营养不够。看到儿子快死了，她当天早晨还买了牛奶，希望能救活他。
Erin and I had a vehicle, so we offered to take her and her son to a hospital to see if doctors could save his life. At the hospital, a doctor examined the baby, asked his mother to try to nurse him and immediately diagnosed the problem.
埃琳和我开了一辆车，于是我们提出带她和孩子去医院，看医生能不能救活孩子。在医院，一名医生给这名婴儿做了检查，要求母亲试着哺乳，然后马上就判断出了问题所在。
“The mother doesn’t know how to breast-feed properly,” said the doctor, Amidou Traoré. “We see lots of cases of child mortality like this.”
这个名为阿米杜·特拉奥雷(Amidou Traoré)的医生说，“母亲不知道如何正确喂奶。我们看到很多这样的婴儿死亡病例。”
Dr. Traoré repositioned Seyda Allaye’s arm, helped the infant latch on to her breast, and the baby came alive. And there’s the answer to my opening question. The miracle food that could save so many lives is: breast milk.
特拉奥雷医生调整了赛义达·阿拉耶胳膊的位置，帮助婴儿吸住乳房，随即孩子就恢复了生机。而这就是我开头提出的问题的答案。能拯救这么多生命的神奇食物就是：母乳。
The latest nutritional survey from The Lancet estimates that suboptimal breast-feeding claims the lives of 804,000 children annually. That’s more than the World Health Organization’s estimate of malaria deaths each year.
《柳叶刀》杂志(The Lancet)最新营养调查估计，每年有80.4万婴儿因母乳喂养不当而丧命。这一数据高于世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)估算的每年死于疟疾的人数。
Look, I realize that there’s something patronizing about a man griping about poor breast-feeding practices, and, in the West, the issue is linked to maternity leaves and other work practices. But, if we want to save hundreds of thousands of lives, maybe a step forward is to offer more support to moms in poor counties trying to nurse their babies.
是的，我明白，一个男人在哺乳不当的问题上喋喋不休有点居高临下，而且在西方，这个问题与产假等职场惯例有关。不过，如果我们想拯救数十万生命的话，也许取得进展的方法之一，就是向试图哺乳的穷国母亲提供更多支持。
Nursing a baby might seem instinctive, but plenty goes wrong. In some parts of the world, a problem has been predatory marketing by formula manufacturers, but, in the poorest countries, the main concern is that moms delay breast-feeding for a day or two after birth and then give babies water or food in the first six months. The World Health Organization strongly recommends a diet of exclusively breast milk for that first half year.
母乳喂养看似本能，但实际上会发生许多问题。在世界部分地区，问题在于婴儿配方奶粉制造商的掠夺性营销，不过，在最贫穷国家，主要问题是母亲在分娩后推迟一两天喂奶，以及在婴儿出生后最初六个月期间喂水或食物。世界卫生组织强烈建议，婴儿生下来最初六个月里只喂母乳。
In a village in Mali, Erin and I watched a woman wash a baby — and then pour handfuls of bath water down his mouth. “It makes the baby strong,” a midwife explained.
在马里的一个村庄，埃琳和我看观察了一名女性给婴儿洗澡，然后往孩子嘴里喂了几口洗澡水。“这会让孩子强壮起来，”产婆说。
On hot days, African moms routinely give babies water to drink. In fact, breast milk is all infants need, and the water is sometimes drawn from unsanitary puddles.
炎炎夏日，非洲母亲常常喂婴儿喝水。实际上，孩子只需要母乳，而那些水有时来自不卫生的水坑。
Here in Mali, fewer than one-quarter of women breast-feed exclusively for six months. In Niger, where Erin and I are also traveling on this win-a-trip journey, it’s 8 percent. In our third country, Chad, it’s only 2 percent.
在马里，不到四分之一的女性在婴儿头六个月里进行纯母乳喂养。埃琳和我此行还要去尼日尔，那里的比例为8%。而我们的第三个目的地乍得的比例仅为2%。
This isn’t just an issue in poor countries. In the United States, 16 percent of children are exclusively breast-fed for six months. Then again, in the United States, the child’s life does not normally hang in the balance.
这不仅仅是穷国才有的问题。在美国，头六个月纯母乳喂养的婴儿比例为16%。不过话说回来，美国的婴儿一般不至于有生命危险。
Several studies highlight other advantages of breast-feeding, including increases of several points in a child’s I.Q. and improved development of areas of the brain associated with language and planning.
多项研究突显了母乳喂养的其他好处，包括让孩子的智商提高好几分，以及促进与语言和规划有关的大脑区域的发育。
While many moms think they don’t produce enough milk, nutritionists say that that’s rare. Even when moms are malnourished, the baby’s frantic suckling will stimulate more milk.
虽然许多母亲认为自己奶水不够，但营养学家称，这种情况其实很罕见。就算母亲营养不良，拼命吃奶的婴儿也会刺激出更多的奶水。
Erin and I traveled partway on this trip with Shawn Baker, a public health expert with Helen Keller International. One day we asked him where he would invest a billion dollars if he had it.
埃琳和我在一部分行程中有海伦·凯勒国际基金会(Helen Keller International)的公共卫生专家肖恩·贝克(Shawn Baker)同行。有一天，我们问他，如果有10亿美元，他会用来投资什么？
“To me, the next big win in saving kids’ lives is breast-feeding promotion,” he said. “It’s absolutely unacceptable that more than 800,000 kids are dying annually of suboptimal breast-feeding.”
他说，“在我看来，倡导母乳喂养会让我们打赢拯救儿童生命的下一个大胜仗。每年有80多万婴儿因母乳喂养不当而死亡，这绝不可接受。”
Ghana is a model of a country that has successfully used public health campaigns to raise rates of exclusive breast-feeding very significantly.
加纳是这方面的典范，该国成功地利用公共卫生宣传活动，大幅提高了纯母乳喂养的比例。
There are many ways to save lives, some involving dazzling technologies. But maybe in our sophistication we’ve overlooked a way to ease childhood malnutrition that is sustainable, scalable, free — and so straightforward that all hungry newborns cry for it.
有许多方法可以拯救生命，其中一些要采用令人眼花缭乱的技术。但是，置身于这种高技术的氛围，也许让我们忽略了一种缓解儿童营养不良的好办法——它可持续、可普及、免费，而且如此基于本能，以至于所有饥饿的新生儿都会哭着要。