ATWATER, Calif. — Hens in California are living the good life. Many can now lay their eggs in oversize enclosures roomy enough to stand up, lie down — even extend their wings fully without touching another bird.
加利福尼亚州阿特沃特——加利福尼亚州的母鸡过得相当不错。许多母鸡现在能在超大的鸡舍里下蛋，空间大得足以让它们站立和躺倒——甚至还能让它们充分伸展自己的翅膀，而不会触及身边的伙伴。
Hens in most other states don’t have it so good. Their conditions, as the head of California’s egg trade group explained, are “like you sitting in an airplane seat in the economy section all your life.”
其他州的母鸡就没有这么好的条件了。正如加州鸡蛋贸易组织负责人所解释的，另一些州的条件就像是“让你终生坐在某架航班的经济舱座位上”。
So if you’re a hen, you want to live in California. Short of that, you want California-size leg room. And that’s precisely what lawmakers in California are demanding of out-of-state farmers who sell eggs in California — setting off a feud over interstate commerce that has spilled over into the farmyard at large.
所以，如果你是一只母鸡，你会希望生活在加州。如果不能，你会希望有加州鸡舍那种大小的伸展空间。这也是加州议员们对从外地到本地销售鸡蛋的养殖户的确切要求，这引发了一场已蔓延至农家庭院的州际贸易之争。
The Missouri attorney general has filed a lawsuit to block the California egg rules, and at least three other states are considering doing the same. The beef and pork lobbies are also lining up against the California rules in an effort to prevent any new restrictions on raising livestock.
密苏里州检察长已提出诉讼，意在阻止加州的鸡蛋法规在本地实施，还有至少三个州也在考虑这么干。牛肉和猪肉游说团体也在联手反对加州的法规，目的是防止加州出台任何限制牲畜饲养的新法规。
“This is bigger than a case about egg production and bigger than a case simply about agriculture,” said Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster. “These laws raise an important commerce clause question that affects many, many industries nationally, and I believe the courts need to respond.”
密苏里州检察长克里斯·科斯特(Chris Koster)说，“这一影响超过了一桩有关鸡蛋生产的案子，也超过了一桩单纯的农业案。这些法规提出了一个重要的商业条款问题，它将影响全国的许许多多行业，我认为，法院需要作出回应。”
California voters set new standards for hen housing in 2008 when they approved a ballot measure that imposed more generous living conditions for egg layers in their state. When producers complained that the measure created a competitive disadvantage, the Legislature tacked on a law that mandated imported eggs be produced under the same standards.
2008年，加州选民批准了一项选票提案，要求本州农户为产蛋鸡提供更优越的生活条件，由此设立了母鸡鸡舍的新标准。鸡蛋生产商抱怨说，这项提案导致了竞争劣势，于是州议会补充了一项法规，指定从其他州采购的鸡蛋也必须按照同等标准生产。
Those provisions, as well as similar laws going into effect in Michigan, Oregon and Washington State and under consideration elsewhere, inspired a national proposal to require more space for laying hens across the country, but Congress dropped it from the recently passed farm bill. Lawmakers and some companies have been responding to consumer pressure (including from several colleges) for better treatment of animals raised for food.
这些规定，以及密歇根州、俄勒冈州和华盛顿州生效的类似法规，还有其他地区正在考虑推出的类似法规，促生了一项全国性的提议，要求在全国范围内为下蛋母鸡安排更大的空间，不过，国会最近通过的农业提案摒弃了该提议。面对消费者要求给人工饲养的食用动物提供更好条件的压力，议员们和一些公司一直在作出响应。
The state’s egg producers have already spent millions of dollars installing “colony cages,” like those in two of the six barns at JS West & Companies’ Dwight Bell Ranch here. On a recent visit, white leghorn hens craned their necks out of the cages to stare and cluck at strangers, then withdrew to the safety of perches or the privacy of the laying nest, neither of which is available in conventional cages. There are about 60 hens in each cage.
加州的鸡蛋生产商已耗资数百万美元安装“群落式鸡笼”。JS韦斯特公司(JS West & Companies)旗下的德怀特·贝尔牧场(Dwight Bell Ranch )在这里有六个牲畜饲养栏，其中有两个就是这样的。在最近走访这家牧场时，我看到白色的来亨鸡把脖子伸出鸡笼，瞪着陌生人咯咯地叫，然后回身到自己那块安全的栖息地，或是不受打扰的产蛋窝里，传统的鸡笼不具备这两项设备中的任何一项。每只鸡笼里大约有60只母鸡。
The colony cages are about the size of a Ford F-150 pickup truck’s flatbed, while about 90 percent of the nation’s roughly 280 million laying hens are still in battery cages about as big as a filing-cabinet drawer. California’s egg producers have interpreted their state’s laws, which go into effect Jan. 1 next year, to require 116 square inches per bird, compared to the industry standard 67 square inches.
这种群落式鸡笼约有福特F-150皮卡车的后箱那么大。而在这个国家大约2.8亿只下蛋鸡中，约有90%仍被关在只有档案柜抽屉那么大的层架式鸡笼里。加州鸡蛋生产商根据自己对这项将于明年1月1日生效的法律的理解，认为新规要求每只鸡拥有116平方英寸（约合0.07平方米）的空间，而行业标准是67平方英寸。
JS West & Companies, a family-owned business that features a “Hens Live” camera feed on its website so customers can view their birds’ living conditions, has spent more than $6 million installing the new cages. Jill Benson, senior vice president, said she believed eventually all chickens across the country would be raised in such conditions. “For us, it was a decision to invest in the future,” said Ms. Benson, whose great-grandfather, James Stewart West, founded the company. “We looked at moving production out of the state or even out of the country, but in the end decided that this is where the market is heading.”
JS韦斯特公司是一个家族企业，其网站上有“母鸡现场直播”视频可供顾客查看母鸡的生活条件，该公司已经花了600多万美元安装新笼舍。高级副总裁吉尔·本森(Jill Benson)说，她相信全美各地所有的鸡以后都会在这样的条件下饲养。“对于我们来说，这个决定是‘面向未来的投资’。”本森表示，这家公司是她的曾祖父詹姆斯·斯图尔特·韦斯特(James Stewart West)创办的。“我们想过把养鸡场搬到其他州，甚至搬到国外去，但最终还是觉得，这就是市场发展的方向。”
Missouri, however, contends that California is trying to force the market in that direction, and at least three other states — Nebraska, Arkansas and the nation’s largest egg producer, Iowa — are considering supporting its lawsuit, according to representatives of their attorneys general.
然而，密苏里州反对说，加州正在努力迫使市场朝着这个方向发展，至少其他三个州——内布拉斯加州、阿肯色州和全国最大的鸡蛋产地艾奥瓦州——正在考虑支持这项诉讼，这几个州检察长的代表说。
Egg producers are warning that Californians, who consumed an estimated nine billion eggs last year, will almost certainly face higher prices as a result of the rules’ import restrictions and effect on in-state producers. “Come Jan. 1, I’m fairly convinced there is going to be a fairly large shortage of eggs in California,” said David Cisneros, chief operating officer of Dakota Layers, a large egg production company headquartered in South Dakota.
鸡蛋生产商警告说，加州去年消费了约90亿个鸡蛋，由于这个法规对从加州以外采购鸡蛋的限制和对周内生产商的影响，加州的鸡蛋价格上涨几乎已成定局。“我相当肯定，到了1月1日，加州将出现相当严重的鸡蛋短缺。”大型鸡蛋生产公司达科他层(Dakota Layers)的首席运营官大卫·西斯内罗斯(David Cisneros)说，该公司总部位于南达科他州。
Already, Arnie Riebli, head of the Association of California Egg Farmers, and other producers, said retailers insisted on pricing eggs from hens living in colony cages as if they were cage-free and specialty eggs, even though the new systems are estimated to add only about a penny to the cost of producing an egg — the hens eat more but are slightly more productive and have a somewhat lower mortality rate.
目前，加州蛋农协会(Association of California Egg Farmers)的负责人阿尼·里伯利(Arnie Riebli)以及其他生产商表示，在群落式笼养母鸡鸡蛋的定价上，零售商坚持让它们跟散养母鸡鸡蛋和特色鸡蛋的价格保持一样，即使采用新笼舍之后，生产一个鸡蛋的成本大约只会增加一美分——母鸡吃的饲料是多了，但产蛋率也略有提高，而且死亡率有一定程度的降低。
“We have no influence over what they charge, but if more eggs are produced this way, then the price is going to come down,” Mr. Riebli said. “It’s simple supply and demand.”
“对于他们怎么收费，我们没有任何影响力，但如果有更多的鸡蛋按照这样的方式生产，价格自然就会降下来，”里伯利说。“这是简单的供求平衡问题。”
He noted that federal courts in California in general have ruled in favor of animal welfare advocates in other cases challenging state laws aimed at the humane treatment of livestock. Most recently, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld a California law prohibiting sale in the state of any foie gras produced by force-feeding birds, which was challenged as a violation of the interstate commerce clause by Hudson Valley Foie Gras L.L.C. and a group of Canadian producers.
他指出，在其他挑战加州“人道对待牲畜”法律的案件中，该州的联邦法院一般会做出有利于动物福利倡导者的裁决。最近，美国联邦第九巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit)支持了加州的一项法律。该法律禁止在该州销售以填鸭方式喂养的家禽制成的鹅肝酱，遭到了哈德逊鹅肝酱有限责任公司(Hudson Valley Foie Gras L.L.C.)和一些加拿大生产商的质疑，称它违反了州际贸易条款。
But Mr. Koster is undaunted by those precedents. “I recognize that the California district courts and the Ninth Circuit have not been particularly friendly to this sort of assertion we’re making here, but I also have confidence that will not be the last word on this analysis,” he said. “The U.S. Supreme Court is unlikely to allow a state to put this type of trade barrier in place in the agricultural arena or any other arena.”
但这些先例并没有让科斯特知难而退。“我知道，加州地区法院和第九巡回法院对我们的这些主张并不是特别友好，但我也有信心，这种分析并不会就此销声匿迹，”他说。“无论是在农业领域还是任何其他领域，美国最高法院都不太可能让一个州树立起这种贸易壁垒。”