A common concern about exercise is that if you don't do it almost every day, you won't achieve much health benefit. But a commendable new study suggests otherwise, showing that a fairly leisurely approach to scheduling workouts may actually be more beneficial than working out almost daily.
对于健身，人们普遍存在这样的顾虑，那就是如果你没有天天运动，就无法取得足够的健康益处。但一项值得向大家推荐的新研究则提供了不同的看法，这项研究表明，轻松惬意的锻炼日程也许比每天孜孜不倦的锻炼，会对人们更为有益。
For the new study, published this month in Exercise & Science in Sports & Medicine, researchers at the University of Alabama at Birmingham gathered 72 older, sedentary women, ages 60 to 74, and randomly assigned them to one of three exercise groups.
这项研究发表在本月的《运动与锻炼中的医学与科学》（Exercise & Science in Sports & Medicine)，阿拉巴马大学伯明翰分校(University of Alabama at Birmingham)的研究者们找来了72位年龄在60岁到74岁之间、平素较少运动的女性，将她们随机分配到三个健身小组中的一组。
One group began lifting weights once a week and performing an endurance-style workout, like jogging or bike riding, on another day.
一个小组每周有一天进行举重锻炼，而在另一天进行像慢跑或骑自行车这样的耐力练习。
Another group lifted weights twice a week and jogged or rode an exercise bike twice a week.
另一个小组每周安排两天举重练习，两天慢跑或骑自行车。
The final group, as you may have guessed, completed three weight-lifting and three endurance sessions, or six weekly workouts.
而第三组的锻炼方式你或许已经猜出来了，她们每周进行三天的举重练习，三天的耐力练习，总共锻炼六天。
The exercise, which was supervised by researchers, was easy at first and meant to elicit changes in both muscles and endurance. Over the course of four months, the intensity and duration gradually increased, until the women were jogging moderately for 40 minutes and lifting weights for about the same amount of time.
研究者全程监控参与者锻炼，锻炼起初很轻松，其目的是改变参与者的肌肉和耐力。在四个月时间里，锻炼的强度和时长逐渐提升，最终这些参与的女性可以慢跑40分钟，举重练习也能达到同样的时间。
The researchers were hoping to find out which number of weekly workouts would be, Goldilocks-like, just right for increasing the women's fitness and overall weekly energy expenditure.
研究者希望能藉此发现每周锻炼多少次刚好合适，在每周投入一定时间的精力锻炼后，能恰如其分地增强参与者的体能。
Some previous studies had suggested that working out only once or twice a week produced few gains in fitness, while exercising vigorously almost every day sometimes led people to become less physically active, over all, than those formally exercising less. Researchers theorized that the more grueling workout schedule caused the central nervous system to respond as if people were overdoing things, sending out physiological signals that, in an unconscious internal reaction, prompted them to feel tired or lethargic and stop moving so much.
此前一些研究发现，每周只锻炼一两次对体能几乎毫无裨益，而每天几乎都从事高强度练习的人，相比那些锻炼次数较少的人，在日常生活中表现得更为懒散。研究者推断认为，较为严苛的健身日程会令中枢神经系统对这种过度运动产生回应，在这种下意识的内部反应中释放出生理信号，令人们感觉自己很疲惫不堪、昏昏欲睡，并且不愿意继续动起来。
To determine if either of these possibilities held true among their volunteers, the researchers in the current study tracked the women's blood levels of cytokines, a substance related to stress that is thought to be one of the signals the nervous system uses to determine if someone is overdoing things physically. They also measured the women's changing aerobic capacities, muscle strength, body fat, moods and, using sophisticated calorimetry techniques, energy expenditure over the course of each week.
而在这项实验中，研究者为了判断在参试者中这种情况是否存在可能性，始终监控着参试女性血液中细胞因子的浓度，这种物质据信与压力有关，神经系统会根据它来判断人体是否在过度运动。他们还监测了这些女性有氧能量、肌力、体脂和情绪的变化，并通过运用复杂的热量测量技术来计算她们每周消耗的能量。
By the end of the four-month experiment, all of the women had gained endurance and strength and shed body fat, although weight loss was not the point of the study. The scientists had not asked the women to change their eating habits.
在四个月的实验结束时，虽然减重并非本次实验的目的，但所有女性的耐力和力量都有所增强，体脂率则随之下降。研究者并未要求她们改变自己的饮食习惯。
There were, remarkably, almost no differences in fitness gains among the groups. The women working out twice a week had become as powerful and aerobically fit as those who had worked out six times a week. There were no discernible differences in cytokine levels among the groups, either.
值得注意的是，在三个小组中，参试者体能的增加几乎无甚区别。每周运动两次的女性，在力量和有氧能量方面跟每周运动六次的女性无异。三个小组的细胞因子浓度同样没有显著的差异。
However, the women exercising four times per week were now expending far more energy, over all, than the women in either of the other two groups. They were burning about 225 additional calories each day, beyond what they expended while exercising, compared to their calorie burning at the start of the experiment.
不过，每周运动四次的女性总体而言，消耗的能量比其他两个小组的女性更多。除了在运动时消耗的能量，相比实验之初，她们每天还多燃烧了225大卡热量。
The twice-a-week exercisers also were using more energy each day than they had been at first, burning almost 100 calories more daily, in addition to the calories used during workouts.
每周运动两次的女性相比实验之初，每天消耗的能量同样有所增加，除了运动时所消耗的卡路里，她们每天多燃烧了将近100大卡热量。
But the women who had been assigned to exercise six times per week were now expending considerably less daily energy than they had been at the experiment's start, the equivalent of almost 200 fewer calories each day, even though they were exercising so assiduously.
至于每周锻炼六次的女性，她们日均消耗的能量相比实验之初则出现了显著的减少，尽管锻炼得如此勤奋，可每天她们燃烧的热量却少了近200大卡。
"We think that the women in the twice-a-week and four-times-a-week groups felt more energized and physically capable" after several months of training than they had at the start of the study, says Gary Hunter, a U.A.B. professor who led the experiment. Based on conversations with the women, he says he thinks they began opting for stairs over escalators and walking for pleasure.
领导该实验的是阿拉巴马大学伯明翰分校的加里·亨特(Gary Hunter)教授，他说，在进行了几个月的锻炼后，“我们认为这些每周锻炼两次或四次的女性感觉更加精神奕奕，在体能上也更为强健了。”他在与这些女性聊天后发现，她们开始选择爬楼梯而非坐电梯，并且享受走路的乐趣。
The women working out six times a week, though, reacted very differently. "They complained to us that working out six times a week took too much time," Dr. Hunter says. They did not report feeling fatigued or physically droopy. Their bodies were not producing excessive levels of cytokines, sending invisible messages to the body to slow down.
那些每周锻炼六次的女性产生的反应则十分不同。“她们向我们抱怨说，每周锻炼六次占用了太多时间，”亨特博士说。这些参试者并未声称自己感觉疲惫，或觉得心有余而力不足。她们的身体没有制造出过高浓度的细胞因子，向身体释放出要悠着点来的看不见的讯息。
Rather, they felt pressed for time and reacted, it seems, by making choices like driving instead of walking and impatiently avoiding the stairs.
确切地说，她们感觉时间不够用，于是有意选择开车而非步行，同时不耐烦地避免爬楼梯。
Despite the cautionary note, those who insist on working out six times per week need not feel discouraged. As long as you consciously monitor your activity level, the findings suggest, you won't necessarily and unconsciously wind up moving less over all.
尽管这项研究给大家提了个醒，但坚持每周锻炼六次的人大可不避因此感到郁闷。研究结果表明，只要你能有意识地监控自己的活动量，就不至于不知不觉地变地懈怠不爱动。
But the more fundamental finding of this study, Dr. Hunter says, is that "less may be more," a message that most likely resonates with far more of us. The women exercising four times a week "had the greatest overall increase in energy expenditure," he says. But those working out only twice a week "weren't far behind."
不过亨特博士说，这项研究更为重大的发现是“少比多好”，这样的讯息很有可能让大家都能产生共鸣。他说，每周锻炼四次的女性“额外消耗的能量最多。”但每周只运动两次，“相去也不是太远。”