IN the Midwest we’re all very aware of seasons and seasonal change. The cold, the warm, the wet, the dry, the hot — we have it all every year. Some seasons are more welcome than others, but they’re all good about one thing: change.
在中西部，我们能清晰感受到季节和四季的变化。冷、暖、干、湿、炎热——这些我们一年都会经历。一些季节比其他季节更受欢迎，但在有一点上它们都很好，那就是：变化。
Change is important. When we were growing up, we got summers off from school. Summer vacation was change. It was something to look forward to. A few months of something different really meant a lot.
变化很重要。在成长过程中，我们会有暑假。暑假就是变化，令人期待。用几个月的时间体验不同的东西真的意义重大。
We grow out of a lot as we grow up. One of the most unfortunate things we leave behind is a regular dose of change. Nowhere is this more evident than at work.
在长大成人的过程中，我们会丢弃很多东西。被我们抛在身后的最可惜的一样，就是定期出现的变化。这一点在工作上表现得最为明显。
Work in February is the same as work in May. June’s the same as October. And it would be hard to tell August from April.
2月的工作和5月的工作一模一样。6月的和10月的毫无二致。8月的和4月的难以区分。
Yes, some businesses are more seasonal than others, but ultimately the stuff we do at work isn’t that much different — it’s just busier some times than others. That isn’t change, it’s just more volume.
的确，一些企业随季节变化的特征比其他的更明显，但从根本上，我们在工作时做的事情却没有那么大的不同，只是有些时候比其他时候更忙碌一些。这不是变化，只是工作量的增加。
I wanted to do something about this. So, at 37signals, the software company I’ve run for the past 13 years, we take inspiration from the seasons and build change into our work schedule.
对此我想做点什么。于是，在我过去13年里经营的软件公司37signals，我们从四季吸取灵感，为我们的工作日程注入变化。
For example, from May through October, we switch to a four-day workweek. And not 40 hours crammed into four days, but 32 hours comfortably fit into four days. We don’t work the same amount of time, we work less.
比如，从5月到10月，我们会变成一周工作四天。这并非把40个小时挤在4天里，而是轻轻松松地把32个小时安排在4天里。和其他时候相比，我们的工作时间减少了。
Most staff workers take Fridays off, but some choose a different day. Nearly all of us enjoy three-day weekends. Work ends Thursday, the weekend starts Friday, and work starts back up on Monday.
大部分员工会在周五休息，但也有一些人选择其他时间。我们几乎所有人都有三天的周末。周四结束工作，周末从周五开始，周一再回来工作。
The benefits of a six-month schedule with three-day weekends are obvious. But there’s one surprising effect of the changed schedule: better work gets done in four days than in five.
长达六个月的三天周末制安排的好处颇为明显。但改变工作安排还产生了一个出人意料的结果：用四天完成的工作比用五天完成得更好。
When there’s less time to work, you waste less time. When you have a compressed workweek, you tend to focus on what’s important. Constraining time encourages quality time.
工作时间减少时，你浪费的时间也减少了。工作周被压缩后，你往往会专注于重要的事情上。限制时间促使时间变得有质量。
At 37signals there’s another thing we do to celebrate the seasons: we cover the cost of a weekly community-supported agriculture share for each employee. We enjoy this benefit year-round, but fresh fruit and produce really glisten in the summer months. It’s a simple way to celebrate change.
在37signals，我们还通过另一件事来庆祝四季：我们承担每位员工每周的社区支持农业(community-supported agriculture share)的开支。我们全年都有这个福利，但在夏天月份，新鲜的水果和农产品真的是看起来闪闪发光。这是一个庆祝变化的简单办法。
In the spirit of continual change, this summer we tried something new. We decided to give everyone the month of June to work on whatever they wanted. It wasn’t vacation, but it was vacation from whatever work was already scheduled. We invited everyone to shelve their nonessential work and to use the time to explore their own ideas.
本着不断改变的精神，今年夏天我们进行了新的尝试。我们决定让所有人在6月想做什么做什么。不是放假，而是从已经安排好的所有工作中抽出身来。我们请所有人停下不必要的工作，用这段时间来探索自己的想法。
People worked independently or joined up with other employees on team projects. The only rule was: explore, see if there are ways to make our existing products better, or come up with a new product idea, create a new business model, or do whatever is of most interest.
员工们或是独立工作，或是和其他员工合作，从事团队项目。唯一的规则是：进行探索，看是否有办法让我们现有的产品变得更好，或是想出一个新的产品点子，创造一种新的商业模式，或者做最感兴趣的任何事情。
Then, in July, we asked each person to share, with the rest of the staff, whatever idea he or she came up with, on a day we set aside as “Pitchday.”
到了7月，我们让每个人在我们抽出的“展示日”这一天，和其他员工一起分享他或她的任何想法。
The June-on-your-own experiment led to the greatest burst of creativity I’ve seen from our 34-member staff. It was fun, and it was a big morale booster. It was also ultraproductive. So much so that we’ll likely start repeating the month-off project a few times a year.
6月自行决定的实验，让我从34名员工身上看到了最大规模的创意爆发。这个实验很有趣，极大地鼓舞了士气，收获也非常大。实验效果如此之好，我们可能会在今后的时间里，一年多次重复这个摆脱常规工作一个月的项目。
Are you thinking of introducing change to your business or work life? Try following the seasons. There are few things that are as regular and predictable, yet so fresh and different.
你是否也在考虑为自己的企业或工作生活引入变化？试试遵循四季更替的步伐吧。有规律、可预见的东西，很少会同时新颖、与众不同。