ALL THE NUMBERS THAT MATTER FROM THE WEEK IN STYLE AND CULTURE Oct. 5 – 11
文中所有时尚和文化轶事发生在10月5日至11日。
2 New operative number in Chinese street wear trends. The fad? T-shirts designed for couples to wear simultaneously. Think matching graphics and disjointed phrases like “Let love … create miracle” that only make sense when completed by your significant other’s tee.
2是中国街头时尚的新数字。古怪吗？其实就是情侣T恤衫。试想配套的图案和被拆开的短句，比如“让爱……创造奇迹”，只有你和你的另一半同时穿着才有意义。
6 Age of Eloise, the illustrated Plaza-dwelling imp, whom Nicky Hilton cites as one of her “style icons.” The hotel heiress has just finished a scrapbook-like fashion guide, filled with tips, anecdotes and old photos. It will be released next fall.
6岁的艾洛伊斯(Eloise)是绘本中居住在Plaza酒店的精灵，尼基·希尔顿(Nicky Hilton)说她是自己的时尚符号。希尔顿这位酒店女继承人刚刚写完了一本剪贴簿式的时尚指南，里面有很多小技巧、趣闻轶事和老照片，将在明年秋天出版。
15 Number of collections Kate Moss has now designed for Topshop. Her latest, which will hit stores in April, comes after a three-year layoff.
凯特·摩斯(Kate Moss)已为Topshop设计了15个时装系列，最新系列将在4月上市，距离上个系列上市已经过去三年。
16 Age at which Miley Cyrus said, in an interview with the magazine Hunger, that she was “brought into fashion” by Marc Jacobs. She’s quoted as saying that Marc “let me inspire some of his pieces, and now I feel like it’s just about having the right people around you.” Wonder what he thinks of the “fashion” she’s been wearing lately.
麦莉·塞勒斯(Miley Cyrus)在接受《饥饿》(Hunger)杂志采访时说自己是在16岁时被马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)“引入时装行业”的。文中引用她的话，说马克“把我当做一些作品的灵感，现在我觉得那意思就是结交正确的人很重要。”不知雅可布对她最近穿的那些“时装”怎么看。
19 Number of pieces in M.I.A.’s counterfeit-inspired capsule collection for Versus Versace, which hits shelves next Wednesday. The recording artist put kaleidoscopic prints of Versace’s logo and Greek keys on clothes and accessories for men and women. Has something meant to look so cheap ever been so chic?
M.I.A.为范思哲(Versus Versace)设计的19件以仿制品为灵感的胶囊系列将在下周三上架。这位音乐家把五彩缤纷的范思哲标识和希腊图纹印在男女装和配饰上。本来看上去如此廉价的东西却如此时髦，这样的事是否曾经有过？
85 Age of Betty Halbreich, the famous Bergdorf Goodman personal shopper and future HBO star. (A Lena Dunham-directed biopic series is in development.) On a recent New Yorker Festival panel, the octogenarian style icon admitted to having never seen “Girls” and to wearing a “panty girdle.”
85岁的贝蒂·哈柏丽丝(Betty Halbreich)是波道夫·古德曼(Bergdorf Goodman)百货公司的著名买手，即将成为HBO新星，在莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)导演的传记体新剧中出演角色。在新的纽约客节(New Yorker Festival)活动中，这位耄耋之年的时尚明星承认自己从没看过《都市女孩》(Girls)，也没穿过“束腰内裤”。
7,168 Hours of unpaid overtime Lady Gaga’s former personal assistant claims she racked up. A good percentage, it could be wagered, was spent monitoring and updating the diva’s Instagram, a new duty assigned to many a mega-star’s P.A. Rihanna’s BFF and Heidi Klum’s mom are examples of other unpaid Instassistants, who take “selfies” for their famous employers.
Lady Gaga的前私人助理说自己为Lady Gaga加班7168小时未获报酬。我敢打赌，其中大部分时间是在监控和更新这位女明星的Instagram账号。这是许多超级巨星助理的新任务。蕾哈娜(Rihanna)的好友与海蒂·克鲁姆(Heidi Klum)的妈妈和很多未领报酬的“Instagram助理”都在做这项工作，他们为自己的名人雇主在Instagram上打造“自我”。
$10,000 Cost to create Amanda Bynes’ rose gold and diamond grill, which the troubled actress commissioned before her meltdown (when she lit that driveway on fire). The ornate mouth guard has been finished for months now, and the jeweler expressed surprise at not being able to deliver it to Bynes to collect payment. (Hello, she’s been hospitalized since July!)
阿曼达·贝尼斯(Amanda Bynes)的玫瑰金与钻石牙箍价值一万美元，是这位深陷烦恼的女演员精神崩溃之前定制的（当时她在私人车道上纵火）。这件华丽的口腔用品于几个月之前完工，珠宝商对于无法将货品交付给贝尼斯并获取酬金表示惊讶（拜托，她可是7月就入院了）！
$50,000 Dollars that André Leon Talley apparently received from Karl Lagerfeld as a 50th birthday present. The larger-than-life fashion fixture (now 64) revealed this fact — and shared his thoughts on racism, weight and Anna Wintour — on Tuesday night during a discussion with the former CFDA executive director Fern Mallis.
安德烈·莱昂·塔利(André Leon Talley)曾经从卡尔·拉斐格(Karl Lagerfeld)那里收到5万美元作为50岁生日礼物。现年64岁的塔利已经成为传奇时尚人物，他于周二晚上在和美国时装设计师协会的前任执行总监弗恩·马里斯(Fern Mallis)聊天时透露了这件事，同时还聊了他对种族主义、体重和安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)的看法。
$55 Million Dollars that the film “Gravity” grossed on opening weekend. Its star Sandra Bullock, 49 (how?), appeared physics-defying in the skintight androgynous suit she wore to a private screening of the film in London.
影片《地心引力》(Gravity)首映的第一个周末即获得5500万美元票房收入。影片由49岁（怎么可能？）的桑德拉·布鲁克(Sandra Bullock)主演，她穿着中性风格的紧身套装出席了伦敦的一场私人放映，看上去完全不显老。
$195 Million Sale price of Juicy Couture. Authentic Brands bought the company, which was valued at $500 million last year, from its owner of 10 years, Fifth & Pacific (formerly known as Liz Claiborne). Why did Fifth & Pacific sell? To focus on bringing Kate Spade to its full potential.
橘滋(Juicy Couture)的销售额达到1.95亿美元。Fifth & Pacific（原名丽资克莱本[Liz Claiborne]）拥有这一价值5亿美元的品牌已有10年之久，去年将其卖给了Authentic Brands集团。Fifth & Pacific为什么要卖掉它呢？ 是为了全力开发凯特·丝培(Kate Spade)的潜力吧。
∞ (Infinity) Amount of glitter stitched into the smoking jacket worn by Tilda Swinton to the 51st New York Film Festival yesterday, a sartorial choice that make her look more like David Bowie than ever.
蒂尔达·斯文顿(Tilda Swinton)昨日在出席第51届纽约电影节时穿了一件织有无数闪亮丝线的吸烟装，男装款式让她看上去更像大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)了。
Tweet of the Week
本周Tweet
Going to raise my kids to have bad personalities. They’ll thank me for it when they’re rich and successful!
一定要把我的孩子们培养成坏人。他们会因为功成名就而感激我的！