High-intensity interval training, a type of workout that consists of very brief bouts of very strenuous exercise, has become enormously popular in recent years. A main reason is that although such workouts are draining, they can be both very effective and very short, often lasting only a few minutes.
高强度间歇训练(HIIT)是一种在极短暂时间内完成极艰苦运动的锻炼方式，在近年来这种训练非常火爆，主要原因在于这类训练虽然特别累人，但效果非常好，所需时间很短，通常只需要花几分钟。
But people take notably different approaches to this form of exercise. Some complete only one sustained, all-out, four- or five- minute bike ride or sprint — a single interval — and then are done. Others practice standard interval training, involving repeated brief bursts of almost unbearably taxing exertion, interspersed with restful minutes of gentler exercise. Some people perform such sessions two or three times per week; others almost every day.
不过，人们进行高强度间歇训练的方法迥异。有些人只进行一次持续而全力以赴的自行车或快跑冲刺，总共花四五分钟时间——也就是一次间歇——这便完事了。还有些进行标准的间歇训练，在几次让人精疲力竭的高强度冲刺间，以几分钟舒缓的训练过渡。一些人一周进行两三次训练；还有些人几乎天天练。
The science of intensive interval training has, though, been lagging behind the workout’s popularity. Past studies of HIIT, as the practice is commonly known, had established that as measured by changes in cellular markers, standard short-burst HIIT training may improve aerobic fitness up to 10 times as much as moderate endurance training. But scientists had not determined whether a single sustained interval likewise improves fitness, or the ideal number of HIIT sessions per week.
不过，有关高强度间歇训练的科研却远远滞后于它的流行。以往关于这种所谓HIIT的研究已经证实，通过测量细胞标志物的变化可以发现，标准的HIIT训练在提高有氧适能方面的功效可达中度耐力训练的10倍。可是，究竟单次的持续间歇是否同样能改善体能，或者每周进行多少次HIIT训练最为理想，科学家还未有定论。
So to clarify those issues, researchers at two of the laboratories most noted for HIIT science set out to learn more about the best way to do interval training.
为了厘清这些疑问，两家在HIIT研究方面最知名的实验室着手研究进行间歇训练的最佳方法。
First, for a study published this month in Experimental Physiology, scientists at McMaster University in Ontario gathered 17 healthy young men and women and divided them into groups. Ten of them were asked to exercise on two separate days. On one day they completed a standard HIIT session consisting of four 30-second bouts of all-out, tongue-lolling effort on a stationary bicycle, alternating with four minutes of recovery between. On another day they completed a single uninterrupted interval lasting for about four minutes, by which time each rider had combusted the same amount of energy as during the stop-and-go session. Before and after the workouts, the scientists gathered blood and muscle samples.
第一个研究发表在本月的《实验生理学》(Experimental Physiology)上。加拿大安大略省麦克马斯特大学(McMaster University)的科学家们征集了17名年轻男女，并将他们分成两组。第一组为10人，需要在两天分别进行两次训练。一天进行标准的HIIT训练，包括4组30秒全力以赴、累得直吐舌头的固定单车运动，组间进行总计4分钟的舒缓运动。另一天则是完成一次持续约4分钟的剧烈运动，每个人在固定单车上消耗的热量与前一次的运动—放松训练一致。在每次训练前后，研究人员都会采集血液和肌肉样本。
Separately, the remaining seven volunteers did the continuous four-minute workout three times a week for six weeks. The researchers again collected blood and muscle samples, and monitored changes in the riders’ athletic performance by having them ride as hard as possible for a specified period of time.
第二组的7名志愿者，则是在6周时间里，每周进行3次持续4分钟的训练。研究者同样采集了他们的血液和肌肉样本，并且要求志愿者在一个特定时段里尽全力踩单车，以测试他们的体能表现变化。
When collated and compared, the data showed that the physiological differences among the two groups of riders were notable and, in some ways, strange.
研究人员随后整理和比对了数据，发现这两组志愿者的生理学变化十分引人注目，某种角度来说，甚至可以用离奇来形容。
On the one hand, the scientists found no significant variations in how the muscles of riders in the first group responded to a single session of interval training, whether of the standard stop-and-go variety or a sole sustained effort. In both cases, the riders showed immediate, post-exercise increases in their blood levels of certain proteins associated with eventual improvements in endurance capacity.
一方面，研究人员发现，第一组车手进行一次间歇训练后，不管他们进行的是标准的运动—放松间歇训练还是单次持续训练，肌肉都未出现显著变化。但在这两个组，在训练结束后，车手们血液中跟耐力水平提高相关的特定蛋白质水平都出现了立竿见影的提升。
But when the researchers checked blood and muscle tissue in the second group of riders after they had completed six weeks of single-interval training, some of the pending improvements seemed to have evaporated. These riders’ muscle tissues now had only average — not augmented — amounts of the chemicals that help cells to produce more energy, a reliable marker of fitness. This finding was in stark contrast to the results of earlier work by the same researchers, in which they found that six weeks of standard short-burst HIIT exercise resulted in significant, sustained gains in these markers.
但是，在第二组车手完成了6周单次间歇训练后，研究者在测试其血液和肌肉组织后发现，一些短暂的改善似乎已经消失殆尽。这些车手的肌肉组织现在所含的有助于细胞产生更多能量的化合物——这是有关运动水平的一个可靠的标志物——其数量仅为平均水平，并没有增多。这项发现跟同一组科研人员在早期得到的结果形成了鲜明对比，当时他们发现6周的标准HIIT训练可导致这些标志物出现显著且持续的增长。
The implications of the new study are not altogether clear, said Martin Gibala, the chairman of the department of kinesiology at McMaster University and senior author of the study, but “it would appear,” he said, “that there is something important, even essential, about the pulsative nature” of on-off HIIT training if you wish to reap sustained physiological improvements.
麦克马斯特大学运动学系主任、本研究的资深作者马丁·吉巴拉(Martin Gibala)说，这项新研究的结论还不是十分明朗，但他说，“研究提示”，如果你希望得到持续的生理学效果，运动—放松HIIT训练“脉冲式的特性十分有用，甚至可谓至为关键”。
In more practical terms, before you riff on your current workout, check to see whether reliable science supports your improvisation.
用更实际的方式来说，在你想改变目前的健身方式前，需要先看看是否有可靠的研究支持你革新的想法。