Running for as little as five minutes a day could significantly lower a person’s risk of dying prematurely, according to a large-scale new study of exercise and mortality. The findings suggest that the benefits of even small amounts of vigorous exercise may be much greater than experts had assumed.
最新的一项关于运动与死亡的大范围研究显示，只要每天跑步短短五分钟，就能大大降低人们过早死亡的风险。这一发现意味着，即使是少量的高强度运动，益处可能也远远超出专家们的设想。
In recent years, moderate exercise, such as brisk walking, has been the focus of a great deal of exercise science and most exercise recommendations. The government’s formal 2008 exercise guidelines, for instance, suggest that people should engage in about 30 minutes of moderate exercise on most days of the week. Almost as an afterthought, the recommendations point out that half as much, or about 15 minutes a day of vigorous exercise, should be equally beneficial.
最近几年，适度运动，比如健步行走，一直是许多健身研究和多数锻炼建议所强调的重点。例如，美国政府2008年正式发布的运动指南中建议，人们应该每周至少四天，每天做约30分钟的适度运动。仿佛是一个可有可无的补充，建议中还指出，每天用上述时长的一半，即约15分钟做剧烈运动，能带来同样的益处。
But the science to support that number had been relatively paltry, with few substantial studies having carefully tracked how much vigorous exercise is needed to reduce disease risk and increase lifespan. Even fewer studies had looked at how small an amount of vigorous exercise might achieve that same result.
但该数据相对缺乏科学依据，因为几乎没有大规模的研究仔细追踪过，剧烈运动量达到多大，才能产生降低疾病风险和延长寿命的效果。至于要想产生同样的效果，剧烈运动量最小可以有多小，相关的研究就更少了。
So for the new study, published Monday in The Journal of the American College of Cardiology, researchers from Iowa State University, the University of South Carolina, the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge, La., and other institutions turned to a huge database maintained at the Cooper Clinic and Cooper Institute in Dallas.
因此，为了开展周一发表在《美国心脏病学会杂志》(The Journal of the American College of Cardiology)上的这项最新研究，研究人员采用了达拉斯的库珀诊所(Cooper Clinic)和库珀研究所(Cooper Institute)维护的规模庞大的数据库中的信息。这些研究人员来自艾奥瓦州立大学(Iowa State University)、南卡罗来纳大学(University of South Carolina)，以及路易斯安那州巴吞鲁日的潘宁顿生物医学研究中心(Pennington Biomedical Research Center)等机构。
For decades, researchers there have been collecting information about the health of tens of thousands of men and women visiting the clinic for a check-up. These adults, after completing extensive medical and fitness examinations, have filled out questionnaires about their exercise habits, including whether, how often and how speedily they ran.
几十年来，那里的研究人员一直在收集来到旗下诊所检查身体的人的健康信息。这数万名成年男女在完成大量医学和健康检查之后，填写了关于自己锻炼习惯的问卷，包括他们是否跑步，以及跑步的频率和速度。
From this database, the researchers chose the records of 55,137 healthy men and women ages 18 to 100 who had visited the clinic at least 15 years before the start of the study. Of this group, 24 percent identified themselves as runners, although their typical mileage and pace varied widely.
研究人员从这个数据库中选择了55137名年龄在18到100岁的健康男性和女性的记录，他们到诊所检查的时间距今至少已有15年之久。在这个群体中，24%的人称自己跑步，不过他们惯常的跑步距离和速度大相径庭。
The researchers then checked death records for these adults. In the intervening 15 or so years, almost 3,500 had died, many from heart disease.
之后研究人员查看了这些成年人的死亡记录。在这中间15年左右的时间里，几乎有3500人死亡，许多人死于心脏病。
But the runners were much less susceptible than the nonrunners. The runners’ risk of dying from any cause was 30 percent lower than that for the nonrunners, and their risk of dying from heart disease was 45 percent lower than for nonrunners, even when the researchers adjusted for being overweight or for smoking (although not many of the runners smoked). And even overweight smokers who ran were less likely to die prematurely than people who did not run, whatever their weight or smoking habits.
不过，跑步者患病的概率要远远低于不跑步的人。即使研究人员考虑了超重或吸烟的因素（跑步者中吸烟的并不多），跑步者的总体死亡风险也比不跑步的人低30%，而死于心脏病的风险比不跑步的人低45%。即使是超重且吸烟的跑步者，早逝的风险也低于不跑步的人，不论后者体重或吸烟习惯如何。
As a group, runners gained about three extra years of life compared with those adults who never ran.
作为一个整体，跑步者的寿命比从不跑步的人要长三年左右。
Remarkably, these benefits were about the same no matter how much or little people ran. Those who hit the paths for 150 minutes or more a week, or who were particularly speedy, clipping off six-minute miles or better, lived longer than those who didn’t run. But they didn’t live significantly longer those who ran the least, including people running as little as five or 10 minutes a day at a leisurely pace of 10 minutes a mile or slower.
值得注意的是，无论人们跑步的时间是长是短，带来的益处基本上是相同的。每周跑步150分钟甚至更长时间的人，或者跑步速度特别快的人（比如每英里六分钟甚至更快），比不跑步的人的寿命更长。不过，他们的寿命并没有比跑步时间最短的那些人长很多，比如那些每天只跑5到10分钟，跑一英里需要10分钟甚至更慢的人。
“We think this is really encouraging news,” said Timothy Church, a professor at the Pennington Institute who holds the John S. McIlHenny Endowed Chair in Health Wisdom and co-authored the study. “We’re not talking about training for a marathon,” he said, or even for a 5-kilometer (3.1-mile) race. “Most people can fit in five minutes a day of running,” he said, “no matter how busy they are, and the benefits in terms of mortality are remarkable.”
“我们认为这是一个非常鼓舞人心的消息，”潘宁顿研究所的教授蒂莫西·丘奇(Timothy Church)说。丘奇是约翰·S·麦基尔亨利医学研究讲座教授(John S. McIlhenny Endowed Chair in Health Wisdom)，也是该研究的作者之一。“我们谈论的不是马拉松训练，”他说，甚至都不是五公里（3.1英里）赛跑。“大多数人每天都可以跑上五分钟，”他说，“无论多忙，而它对于避免死亡却有惊人的益处。”
The study did not directly examine how and why running affected the risk of premature death, he said, or whether running was the only exercise that provided such benefits. The researchers did find that in general, runners had less risk of dying than people who engaged in more moderate activities such as walking.
他说，这项研究没有直接探究跑步为何以及如何会影响过早死亡的风险，也没有直接探究跑步是否是唯一会带来这种好处的运动。但研究人员的确发现，总的来说，与参与散步等更缓和锻炼项目的人们相比，跑步者死亡的风险更低。