My twin grandsons, now 13, walk nearly a mile to and from school and play basketball in the schoolyard for an hour or more most afternoons, when weather and music lessons permit.
我的双胞胎孙子今年13岁，步行近1英里(约合1.6公里)上下学，只要天气好又没有音乐课，多数下午都会在学校操场打一个多小时的篮球。
The boys, like their father, are lean, strong and healthy. Their parents chose to live in New York, where their legs and public transit enable them to go from place to place efficiently, at low cost and with little stress (usually). They own a car but use it almost exclusively for vacations.
与他们的父亲一样，两个男孩精壮而健康。他们的父母选择定居纽约，双脚加公共交通就能让他们快速地从一个地方到另一个地方，价格低廉，（通常）也没什么压力。他们有辆车，不过几乎只用于度假。
“Green” commuting is a priority in my family. I use a bicycle for most shopping and errands in the neighborhood, and I just bought my grandsons new bicycles.
我们全家都很看重“绿色”出行。在家附近，我骑自行车来进行多数的购物和处理杂事，还刚刚给孙子们买了新自行车。
My son used to work in New Jersey, which entailed a hated commute by car that took 50 to 90 minutes each way. He quit that job when his sons were born and, working part time from home, cared for the boys. He now commutes to work in the city by foot and by subway, giving him time to read for pleasure.
我的儿子以前在新泽西工作，上下班时，必须单程驾车50到90分钟，很是让人烦心。两个儿子出生后，他就辞去了工作，在家兼职并照顾小孩。现在，他在城里工作，步行加地铁上下班，这让他有时间看看闲书。
As you’ll soon see, the change has probably been good for his health, too.
大家很快会看到，这种转变还很可能有助于他的健康。
According to the Census Bureau, more than three-fourths of all commuters drove to work in single-occupancy vehicles in 2009. Only 5 percent used public transportation, and 2.9 percent walked to work. A mere 0.6 percent rode bicycles, although cycling has finally begun to rise in popularity as cities like New York create bike lanes and bike-share programs.
美国人口普查局(Census Bureau)的数据显示，2009年，超过四分之三的通勤者独自开车去上班。仅5%利用公共交通、2.9%步行、0.6%骑自行车，尽管随着纽约等城市开辟了自行车道并开展了公共自行车项目，骑车的流行度终于开始攀升。
But workers are not the only ones driving for hours a day. The mid-20th-century suburban idyll of children going out to play with friends in backyards and on safe streets has yielded to a new reality: play dates, lessons and organized activities to which they must be driven and watched over by adults.
而且，不仅是上班的人每天要在开车上花费几个小时。20世纪中叶的郊区美景也已让位于新的现实。那时候，孩子们出门与小朋友在后院或安全的街道上玩耍；现如今，一起玩耍、上课及集体活动必须要由成人开车送去，并在一旁看护。
In “My Car Knows the Way to Gymnastics,” an aptly titled chapter in Leigh Gallagher’s prophetic new book, “The End of the Suburbs,” she describes a stay-at-home mom in Massachusetts who drives more than her commuting husband — 40 to 50 miles each weekday, “just to get herself and her children around each day.”
莉·加拉格尔(Leigh Gallagher)撰写的新书《城郊的终结》(The End of the Suburbs)颇具预见性，其中一章的标题恰如其分地叫做《我的车知道怎么开去健身房》(My Car Knows the Way to Gymnastics)，她在书中描述了马萨诸塞州的一名家庭主妇的故事。她每个工作日要开40到50英里（约合80公里），比通勤的丈夫还多，“只是为了每天把自己和孩子送到各个地方。”
Millions of Americans like her pay dearly for their dependence on automobiles, losing hours a day that would be better spent exercising, socializing with family and friends, preparing home-cooked meals or simply getting enough sleep. The resulting costs to both physical and mental health are hardly trivial.
成百上千万与她类似的美国人因为对汽车的依赖而付出了高昂的代价，丧失的时间本可以更好地用于锻炼、与亲友的社交、准备食物，或是干脆睡个饱。由此带来的生理与心理健康代价不容小觑。
Suburban sprawl “has taken a huge toll on our health,” wrote Ms. Gallagher, an editor at Fortune magazine. “Research has been piling up that establishes a link between the spread of sprawl and the rise of obesity in our country. Researchers have also found that people get less exercise as the distances among where we live, work, shop and socialize increase.
加拉格尔是《财富》杂志(Fortune)的编辑。她的书中写到，无序扩张的城郊“给我们的健康带来了巨大的损害”。她还表示，“越来越多的研究建立起了这种扩张与美国肥胖率上升之间的联系。研究者还发现，居住、工作、购物与社交之间距离越大，人们就越少锻炼。”
“In places where people walk more, obesity rates are much lower,” she noted. “New Yorkers, perhaps the ultimate walkers, weigh six or seven pounds less on average than suburban Americans.”
“在人们走路更多的地方，肥胖率要低得多，”她指出。“纽约人或许算是最爱走路的，他们比美国郊区人群的平均体重少六七磅。”
A recent study of 4,297 Texans compared their health with the distances they commuted to and from work. It showed that as these distances increased, physical activity and cardiovascular fitness dropped, and blood pressure, body weight, waist circumference and metabolic risks rose.
不久前的一项研究比较了4297名德克萨斯人的健康与他们上下班的通勤距离。结果显示，随着距离的增加，身体活力与心血管健康度会下降，而血压、体重、腰围和代谢风险会升高。
The report, published last year in The American Journal of Preventive Medicine, by Christine M. Hoehner and colleagues from the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis and the Cooper Institute in Dallas, provided causal evidence for earlier findings that linked the time spent driving to an increased risk of cardiovascular death. It revealed that driving more than 10 miles one way, to and from work, five days a week was associated with an increased risk of developing high blood sugar and high cholesterol. The researchers also linked long driving commutes to a greater risk of depression, anxiety and social isolation, all of which can impair the quality and length of life
相关论文去年发表于《美国预防医学杂志》(The American Journal of Preventive Medicine)，作者是分别来自圣路易斯华盛顿大学医学院(Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis)和达拉斯库珀研究院(Cooper Institute)的克里斯蒂娜·M·霍荷拿(Christine M. Hoehner)等人。他们为早期的一些发现找到了证据，即驾车时间与心血管病的死亡风险上升之间存在联系，并进行了因果论证。文中指出，上下班单程超过10英里且每周驾车五天，与罹患高血糖及高胆固醇的风险升高正相关。研究者们还认为，长时间驾车通勤与抑郁、焦虑和社会隔离的风险升高有关，而这些问题均能有损寿命和生命质量。
A Swedish study has confirmed the international reach of these effects. Erika Sandow, of Umea University, found that people who commuted more than 30 miles a day were more likely to have high blood pressure, stress and heart disease. In a second study, Dr. Sandow found that women who lived more than 31 miles from work tended to die sooner than those who lived closer to their jobs.
瑞典的一项研究确认了这些问题的国际性。于默奥大学(Umea University)的埃丽卡·桑多(Erika Sandow)发现，每天通勤距离超过30英里的人更容易得高血压、抑郁症和心脏病。桑多博士在另一项研究中发现，住所离工作地超过31英里的女性倾向于比那些住所离工作地较近的女性早死。
Regardless of how one gets to work, having a job far from home can undermine health. Another Swedish study, directed by Erik Hansson of Lund University, surveyed more than 21,000 people ages 18 to 65 and found that the longer they commuted by car, subway or bus, the more health complaints they had. Lengthy commutes were associated with greater degrees of exhaustion, stress, lack of sleep and days missed from work.
不论通过何种方式去上班，倘若工作地点离住所很远，都会对健康有害。由隆德大学(Lund University)的埃里克·汉松负责的另一项瑞典研究在对年龄在18岁到65岁之间的2.1万人进行调查后发现，这些人通过汽车、地铁或公交通勤的时间与他们抱怨健康问题的程度呈正相关。长时间的通勤更可能导致身体疲乏、精神抑郁、睡眠不足和生病。
Back in the United States, a study of those who commute to work via the Long Island Rail Road linked long commutes with fewer hours of sleep and greater daytime sleepiness.
美国的一项研究在对通过长岛铁路(Long Island Rail Road)上班的人进行调查后发现，长距离的通勤与睡眠时间较少和白天容易瞌睡有关。
In her book, Ms. Gallagher happily recounts some countervailing trends: more young families are electing to live in cities; fewer 17-year-olds are getting driver’s licenses; people are driving fewer miles; and bike sharing is on the rise. More homes and communities are being planned or reconfigured to shorten commutes, reduce car dependence and facilitate positive interactions with other people.
加拉格尔在她的书中高兴地指出了一些相反的趋势：现在有越来越多的年轻家庭选择住在城里；考取驾照的17岁青少年的人数正在减少；人们的驾车路程变短；共享自行车的现象正在增加。为了缩短通勤路程、减少对汽车的依赖程度、促进积极的人际互动，越来越多的住宅和社区都在规划之中，或被重新调配。
Dr. Richard Jackson, chairman of environmental health sciences at the University of California, Los Angeles, says demographic shifts are fueling an interest in livable cities. Members of Generation Y tend to prefer mixed-use, walkable neighborhoods and short commutes, he said, and childless couples and baby boomers who no longer drive often favor urban settings.
加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)环境健康科学的负责人理查德·杰克逊博士(Dr. Richard Jackson)说，人口结构的变化正在增加人们对宜居城市的兴趣。他说，Y世代(Generation Y)比较喜欢功能齐全、适于步行的居住环境和较短的通勤距离，不再开车的没有子女的夫妇和婴儿潮那代人往往更喜欢城市环境。
While there is still a long way to go before the majority of Americans live in communities that foster good health, more urban planners are now doing health-impact assessments and working closely with architects, with the aim of designing healthier communities less dependent on motorized vehicles for transportation.
虽然离让大多数美国人居住在有利健康的社区的目标还有很长一段路，但是越来越多的城市规划师正在评估健康方面的影响，并且在与建筑师密切合作，希望能设计出更健康的社区环境，在交通方面减少对机动车的依赖。