A United Nations report released on Monday confirmed that a deadly chemical arms attack caused a mass killing in Syria last month and for the first time provided extensive forensic details of the weapons used, which strongly implicated the Syrian government.
联合国(United Nations)周一发布报告确认，上个月发生在叙利亚的致命性化学武器攻击导致了一起大规模的杀戮事件，该报告首次就化学武器的施放提供了广泛的司法鉴定细节，这些细节强烈地暗示，叙利亚政府与此次事件有关。
While the report’s authors did not assign blame for the attack on the outskirts of Damascus, the details it documented included the large size and particular shape of the munitions and the precise direction from which two of them had been fired. Taken together, that information appeared to undercut arguments by President Bashar al-Assad of Syria that rebel forces, who are not known to possess such weapons or the training or ability to use them, had been responsible.
报告的作者没有指明，谁应为大马士革市郊的袭击负责，与此同时，报告记录的细节显示了化学武器的巨大尺寸和特殊形状，并显示了其中两枚化学武器的确切发射方位。总的来看，这些信息似乎有悖于叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)关于反对派武装要为此负责的说法。据目前所知，反对派武装并不拥有这类武器，未曾接受此类训练，也没有能力使用这些武器。
The report, commissioned by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, was the first independent on-the-ground scientific inquest into the attack, which left hundreds of civilians gassed to death, including children, early on Aug. 21.
报告由联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)委托撰写，是首个针对这次袭击深入实地进行调查的独立科研报告，袭击发生在8月21日，导致数以百计的市民被毒气杀害，其中包括一些儿童。
The repercussions have elevated the 30-month-old Syrian conflict into a global political crisis that is testing the limits of impunity over the use of chemical weapons.
袭击事件的余波把持续30个月的叙利亚冲突提升成了一场全球性的政治危机，这场危机正在考验人们对于化学武器使用的容忍极限。
“The report makes for chilling reading,” Mr. Ban told a news conference after he briefed the Security Council. “The findings are beyond doubt and beyond the pale. This is a war crime.”
向安理会(Security Council)进行通报之后，潘基文在随后的新闻发布会上表示，“这份报告令人心寒。调查结果毋庸置疑，不可接受，这样的行为构成了战争罪。”
Mr. Ban declined to ascribe blame, saying that responsibility was up to others, but he expressed hope that the attack would become a catalyst for a new diplomatic determination at the United Nations to resolve the Syrian conflict, which has left more than 100,000 people dead and millions displaced.
潘基文拒绝认定罪魁祸首，称这是其他人的责任，但他表示，希望这次袭击能成为一剂催化剂，加大联合国化解叙利亚冲突的外交决心，此次冲突已经造成10万多人死亡、数百万人流离失所。
There was no immediate reaction to the report from the Syrian government. But just two days before the report was released, Syria officially agreed to join the international convention on banning chemical weapons, and the United States and Russia, which have repeatedly clashed over Syria, agreed on a plan to identify and purge those weapons from the country by the middle of next year. Syria has said it would abide by that plan.
叙利亚政府没有立即对报告作出回应。不过，就在报告出台两天以前，叙利亚正式同意加入《禁止化学武器公约》，因叙利亚问题反复发生争执的美国和俄罗斯，也就截至明年中旬甄别和销毁叙利亚化学武器的计划达成了一致看法。叙利亚已经表示，它将遵守该计划。
The main point of the report was to establish whether chemical weapons had been used in the Aug. 21 attack in the Damascus suburb of Ghouta, an area long infiltrated by rebels. The United Nations inspectors concluded that “chemical weapons have been used in the ongoing conflict between the parties in the Syrian Arab Republic, also against civilians, including children, on a relatively large scale.”
报告的重点，是确定8月21日发生在大马士革市郊姑塔东区的袭击是否使用了化学武器。长期以来，该地区已被反对派势力所渗透。联合国调查员得出结论称：“冲突过程之中，叙利亚阿拉伯共和国各方当中有人使用化学武器，并用它对付了包括儿童在内的平民，化学武器的使用规模相对较大。”
The weapons inspectors, who visited Ghouta and left the country with large amounts of evidence on Aug. 31, said, “In particular, the environmental, chemical and medical samples we have collected provide clear and convincing evidence that surface-to-surface rockets containing the nerve agent sarin were used.”
化武调查员走访了姑塔东区，并于8月31日离开叙利亚，离开的时候带上了大量证据。调查员说：“具体说来，调查小组采集的环境、化学和医学样本提供了明确且有说服力的证据，证实有人使用了含有神经制剂沙林毒气的地对地火箭弹。”
But the report’s annexes, detailing what the authors found, were what caught the attention of nonproliferation experts.
不过，详细阐述了作者发现的报告附录，才是引起防扩散专家关注的章节。
In one particularly incriminating piece of information, the inspectors said the remnants of a warhead found in the attack’s aftermath showed its capacity of sarin to be about 56 liters — far larger than the suspected delivery systems used in alleged chemical weapons attacks before the Aug. 21 strike.
在一段指证力度尤其强大的信息中，调查员说，他们在袭击余波波及的现场找到的弹头残留物显示，该弹头能容纳56升左右的沙林毒气，这个容量远远大于8月21日的袭击发生以前，人们对疑似化学武器攻击当中所用施放系统容量的估计。
The investigators were unable to examine all of the munitions used, but were able to find and measure several rockets or their components. Using standard field techniques for ordnance identification and crater analysis, they established that at least two types of rockets had been used, including an M14 artillery rocket bearing Cyrillic markings and a 330-millimeter rocket of unidentified provenance.
调查人员无法检查所有使用过的弹药，但却找到并测量了几枚火箭弹及其组件。他们使用了标准的军械识别和弹坑分析现场技术，证实至少有两类火箭被使用，包括一种带有斯拉夫字母标记的M14火箭弹，以及一种出处不明的330毫米火箭弹。
These findings, though not presented as evidence of responsibility, were likely to strengthen the argument of those who claim the Syrian government bears the blame, because the weapons in question had not been previously documented or reported to be in possession of the insurgency.
这些发现虽然并没有被列为责任证据，但却很可能加强叙利亚政府应当承担责任的观点，因为此前从未有过反对派武装拥有所涉武器的记录或报道。
Moreover, those weapons are fired by large, conspicuous launchers. For rebels to have carried out the attack, they would have had to organize an operation with weapons they are not known to have and of considerable scale, sophistication and secrecy — moving the launchers undetected into position in areas under strong government influence or control, keeping them in place unmolested for a sustained attack that would have generated extensive light and noise, and then successfully withdrawing them — all without being detected in any way.
此外，这些武器是由难以遮掩的大型发射器发射的。如果实施攻击的是反对派武装，那就意味着他们使用了不为人知、相当大型、复杂和保密的武器，并在无人察觉的情况下把发射器转移到了一个受到政府强有力的影响或控制的地区，又把它们放在一个不受干扰的地方，进行了必然会产生大量光和嗓音的持续攻击，随后再成功撤走这些发射器，还意味着所有这一切都瞒过了所有人的耳目。
One annex to the report also identified azimuths, or angular measurements, from where rockets had struck, back to their points of origin. When plotted and marked independently on maps by analysts from Human Rights Watch and by The New York Times, the United Nations data from two widely scattered impact sites pointed directly to a Syrian military complex.
报告的一份附件还确认了火箭弹发射的方位角，据此追溯到了发射地点。人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)和《纽约时报》的分析师分别在地图上进行了测绘和标记，发现联合国在两个受到大面积影响的地点取得的数据直接指向了一处叙利亚军事基地。
An analysis of the report posted online by the Arms Control Association, a Washington-based advocacy group, said “the additional details and the perceived objectivity of the inspectors buttress the assignment of blame to Bashar al-Assad’s Syrian government.”
华盛顿倡导团体军控协会(Arms Control Association)发布在网上的一份报告分析称：“额外的细节和调查员体现出的客观态度，支持了巴沙尔·阿萨德的叙利亚政府应当为此负责的说法。”
The United States and its allies seized on the volume of data in the report to reaffirm their conclusion that only Syrian government forces had the ability to carry out such a strike, calling it a validation of their own long-held assertions.
美国及其盟友抓住报告中的数据规模重申了自己的结论，即只有叙利亚政府军有能力实施这样的攻击，并且宣称，报告为他们长期以来的断言提供了佐证。
Both the British and American ambassadors to the United Nations also told reporters that the report’s lead author, Dr. Ake Sellstrom, a Swedish scientist who joined Mr. Ban in the Security Council briefing, had told members that quality of the sarin used in the attack was high.
该报告的主要作者、瑞典科学家阿克·塞尔斯特罗姆(Ake Sellstrom)与潘基文一起出席了安理会的简报会。英国和美国的驻联合国代表都告诉记者，塞尔斯特罗姆(Ake Sellstrom)曾对与会成员说，用于攻击的沙林毒气量很大。
“This was no cottage-industry use of chemical weapons,” said the British ambassador, Sir Mark Lyall-Grant. “The type of munitions, the trajectories, which confirmed the analysis that British experts have done about the provenance of where the rockets were fired from, all of that confirms, in our view, that there is no remaining doubt that it was the regime that used chemical weapons.”
“这可不是小作坊的化学武器使用，”英国代表马克·莱尔-格兰特爵士(Mark Lyall-Grant)说。“弹药的种类和轨迹证实了英国专家已经做出的关于火箭发射地点的分析，在我们看来，所有这一切都可以证实，使用化学武器的无疑是叙利亚政府。”
Secretary of State John Kerry and the foreign ministers of France and Britain said Monday that they would not tolerate delays in dismantling Syria’s chemical weapons.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和英法两国外长在周一说，他们不会容忍叙利亚延迟销毁化学武器。
“It is extremely important that there are no evasions,” William Hague, the British foreign secretary, said at a news conference with Mr. Kerry in Paris.
英国外长威廉·黑格(William Hague)在巴黎与克里一起出席新闻发布会时说：“不能容忍任何托词，这一点极其重要。”
Mr. Kerry said, “If Assad fails in time to abide by the terms of this framework, make no mistake, we are all agreed — and that includes Russia — that there will be consequences.”
克里说：“如果阿萨德未能按时遵守这一框架的条款，那么毫无疑问，包括俄罗斯在内，我们全都同意，这将会产生严重后果。”