Migrants streaming into Europe have braved fierce storms, navigated turbulent waters, faced down police batons, water cannons and tear gas in Hungary, and stepped through fields in Croatia strewn with land mines.
不断涌入欧洲的难民要承受猛烈的暴风雨，渡过湍急的海域，抵挡匈牙利警察的警棒、水炮和催泪弹，通过克罗地亚布满地雷的区域。
Now some of the asylum seekers headed toward Western and Central Europe face another worry: toxic mushrooms.
现在，有些前往西欧和中欧的难民还面临着另一个顾虑：毒蘑菇。
Hanover Medical School, an academic hospital in north-central Germany, warned this week that about 30 migrants had been sickened — some of them severely — after eating mushrooms commonly called death caps.
汉诺威医学院(Hanover Medical School)是德国中北部的一个学术医院。本周，该医学院发出警告说，约有30名难民在食用一种俗称死亡帽(death cap)的蘑菇后中毒，其中一些情况严重。
The hospital made and distributed posters in Arabic, Kurdish and other languages cautioning migrants to avoid the fungus, which is native to Europe and can cause fatal liver and kidney damage. On Thursday, similar cases of mushroom poisoning were reported in Münster, about 110 miles west of Hanover. A dozen patients remained hospitalized on Thursday, three in critical condition, Dr. Michael P. Manns, chairman of the department of gastroenterology, hepatology and endocrinology at Hanover Medical School, said in an email.
这家医院用阿拉伯语和库尔德语等语言制作和发放传单，警告难民不要食用这种蘑菇。这种欧洲土产的蘑菇会对肝脏和肾脏造成致命损伤。周四（9月17日），类似的蘑菇中毒病例也出现在汉诺威以西约110英里的明斯特(Münster)。汉诺威医学院的肠胃病、肝脏病和内分泌科主任迈克尔·P·曼内斯(Michael P. Manns)在接受邮件采访时说，周四，仍有十几名中毒者在医院接受治疗，其中三名情况危急。
Desperate migrants traveling for days with little to eat may have resorted to foraging for food as they made their way across Europe, where they hope to find asylum.
难民们穿越欧洲寻找避难所时，可能旅行数日都几乎没有进食，所以会在绝望之中搜寻食物。
“Do not collect mushrooms, if you are unfamiliar with edible growing mushrooms here,” the Hanover hospital warned in the poster. “A mushroom you regard from your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here although they look similar.”
“如果你不熟悉本地正在生长的食用菌，一定不要采集，”汉诺威医院在传单中警告说，“有些蘑菇可能跟你在祖国看到的美味食用菌很像，但它们可能有剧毒。”
The death cap (Amanita phalloides) resembles several varieties of edible mushrooms, making it particularly dangerous to people who are unfamiliar with the local terrain. The mushroom is found across much of Europe and in the United States, California in particular. And right now it is in the middle of its three-month growing season in Europe.
死亡帽（毒鹅膏菌）与好几种食用菌很像，所以对那些不熟悉当地情况的人来说，它尤为危险。这种蘑菇在欧洲和美国（尤其是加利福尼亚州）的很多地方都能找到。目前，它在欧洲正处于三个月的生长期。
“Since this fungus has no repellent taste and the first symptoms occur only after several hours, the risk of getting sick form its consumption is extremely high,” the hospital said. It urged anyone who had eaten mushrooms and later experienced nausea, diarrhea or other symptoms to head to the nearest hospital.
这家医院表示，“因为这种蘑菇没有难闻的味道，食用数小时后才会出现症状，所以它的中毒风险很大。”这家医院敦促所有食用蘑菇后出现呕吐或腹泻等症状的人前往最近的医院就医。
The death cap is an invasive species in the United States. It typically poisons a few people a year in California, often immigrants from Southeast Asia who confuse it with paddy straw mushrooms from their homelands, according to Anne Pringle, a biologist at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, who studies toxic mushrooms.
死亡帽在美国属于外来物种。威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin, Madison)专门研究有毒伞菌的生物学家安妮·普林格尔(Anne Pringle)说，每年加州一般会有数人中毒，大多是东南亚移民，他们把它跟老家的草菇弄混了。