LOS ANGELES — At the height of the recession, Los Angeles officials spent a year and a half wooing a Chinese high-tech business to open its North America headquarters here, with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger traveling to China to persuade its executives.
洛杉矶——在经济衰退最严重的时期，洛杉矶官员花了一年半的时间劝说一家中国的高科技企业，要它将北美总部设在这里，时任州长阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)还特地跑到中国游说该公司高管。
When the deal — which included nearly $2 million in tax subsidies — was announced in 2010, Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa heralded the potential for hundreds of “high-paying green-collar jobs” from the company, B.Y.D., which was looking to sell its electric cars, solar panels and batteries in the American market.
2010年，当这项包括了近200万美元（约合1200万元人民币）税收补贴的交易被公布时，洛杉矶市市长安东尼奥·R·维拉莱戈萨(Antonio R. Villaraigosa)预言，这家公司——比亚迪(BYD)——将可能创造成百上千份“高薪绿领工作”，当时比亚迪正计划在美国市场销售电动汽车、太阳能组件和电池。
Since then, the company, which has said it will create dozens of jobs in its suburban manufacturing plant, has secured contracts worth more than $40 million with the Los Angeles and Long Beach transit authorities to produce electric buses that will run on city streets.
比亚迪表示，它在洛杉矶郊区的生产基地将创造数十个工作岗位，自交易敲定后，公司已从洛杉矶和长滩的运输部门那里拿下了总价值超过4000万美元的合同，将生产在城市街道运行的电动巴士。
But three and half years after its initial promise, the company has employed fewer than 40 workers here, and at least 5 of them are Chinese workers here temporarily, being paid in yuan an amount less than $8 an hour, California’s minimum wage. After an investigation this month, state officials slapped the company with $100,000 in fines for violating the minimum wage law and failing to provide sufficient documentation of pay.
然而，在比亚迪作出最初承诺三年半后，该公司在当地雇佣的工人还不到40名，而且其中至少有五人是临时在那里工作的中国工人，他们的工资按人民币计算，并低于加利福尼亚州每小时8美元的最低工资标准。在本月对比亚迪开展调查后，加州官员以该公司违反最低工资标准法规，并且无法提供充分的薪酬纪录而对其开出了10万美元的罚单。
As state officials continue to court Chinese investment — Gov. Jerry Brown traveled to China this year and spoke effusively about the country’s role in the state’s future — the city’s experience with B.Y.D. could serve as a cautionary tale. And more important, state investigators say, it could signal a shift in the way multinational companies fill jobs.
在加州官员继续大力吸引中国投资之际——州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)也在今年出访中国，热情洋溢地谈论了中国在加州未来发展中扮演的角色——洛杉矶和比亚迪的合作经历可以被看做是一个警示。而更重要的是，加州调查人员称，这也可能预示着跨国公司用工方式的转变。
The state investigation comes as B.Y.D. continues to court transportation officials across the country to win contracts for electric buses, in some cases promising that their buses will be manufactured in the United States. “You cannot pay people in Chinese dollars with Chinese standards while they are doing work in America,” said Julie Su, the state labor commissioner who ordered the investigation into the company. “If this is the tip of the iceberg, you could see this ruining all kinds of industries.”
加州政府对比亚迪开展调查时，正值该公司继续大力游说全美各地的运输部门，以赢得制造电动巴士的合同，在有些地方，比亚迪还承诺将在美国生产这些巴士。下令对比亚迪开展调查的加州劳工执法局局长苏维思(Julie Su)说，“他们在美国工作，你就不能按中国的标准用人民币付他们工资。如果这只是冰山一角，你能想象这种现象正侵蚀着各行各业。”
Officials with B.Y.D. — the letters stand for “Build Your Dreams” — say they plan to appeal the citation, arguing that Chinese workers here on legal work visas are not subject to state labor laws, including the minimum wage.
比亚迪这个名字是Build Your Dreams（成就梦想）的缩写。公司管理人员称，他们打算针对这一处罚上诉，并表示在当地持有合法工作签证的中国工人不受加州劳工法规的管辖，包括最低工资标准。
“They are here installing equipment and training people in a factory that is just beginning,” said Michael Austin, a company spokesman. “We’re bringing in a great Chinese investment — millions of dollars — that is a win for everybody. California is literally begging for these dollars.”
“他们在这里一个刚刚开始运营的工厂进行设备安装和人员培训，”公司发言人迈克尔·奥斯汀(Michael Austin)说。“我们带来了巨额中国投资——价值数百万美元——这符合各方利益。毫不夸张地说，这些钱是加州求来的。”
Mr. Austin said the Chinese workers would leave the United States within a few months, but declined to provide details. California labor officials say that regardless of their visa status, the workers are entitled to earn the state minimum wage.
奥斯汀说，那些中国工人将在几个月内离开美国，但拒绝提供相关细节。加州劳工部门官员称，不论他们持有何种签证，这些工人都应该享受州最低工资。
Under a contract with the City of Los Angeles, B.Y.D. agreed to create 58 jobs in its downtown headquarters by August 2015. According to the contract, the company was to work with community groups to find potential employees. In an appendix, executives forecast the creation of more than 100 jobs by August 2013. It is unclear what city officials did to monitor the company’s progress.
根据它和洛杉矶市签订的一份合同，比亚迪同意到2015年8月，在其位于市中心的总部创造58个新的工作岗位。根据合同，比亚迪将同社区组织合作找到合适的雇员。在合同的附录中，公司高管预测，到2013年8月，比亚迪将创造100多个新的工作岗位。目前尚不清楚市政府官员采取了何种措施来监督比亚迪在创造就业上的进展。
Occupying a refurbished building in downtown, near dozens of auto dealerships and the Staples Center sports arena, the B.Y.D. headquarters contains dozens of empty desks. Portraits on the walls show company executives with city officials and Warren Buffett, who made a highly publicized investment in 2008.
比亚迪总部位于洛杉矶市中心一栋修葺一新的大楼里，附近有数十家汽车经销商以及斯台普斯中心(Staples Center)体育馆，但大楼里却有几十张空桌子。办公室的墙上挂着比亚迪高管和市政府官员以及沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)的合照。2008年巴菲特注资比亚迪一事曾经轰动一时。
Last year, the company won a bid to make 15 buses for the California city of Long Beach, which had secured a federal grant to create zero-emission buses. Under the terms of the contract, the buses must meet certain requirements to show that they were manufactured in the United States. The company is still completing required federal testing on the Chinese-made buses but expects to complete them in its local factory and get them to Long Beach by next spring.
在加利福尼亚州长滩市取得了联邦政府的拨款来推出零排放巴士之后，比亚迪去年赢得了为长滩市制造15辆巴士的合同。根据合同条款，这些巴士必须符合一定的标准，来体现出它们是在美国制造的。比亚迪还在按照联邦法规的要求对中国制造的巴士进行测试，但公司预计将在它本土的工厂完成测试，于明年春天将巴士运抵长滩。
In May, B.Y.D. took over a former R.V. plant in Lancaster, a suburb in the northeast desert of Los Angeles County. The plant is still mostly vacant save for a small number of local workers, several whom had been laid off when the R.V. plant closed. On a recent afternoon, three engineers from China were working to install factory equipment.
5月，比亚迪收购了位于洛杉矶县东北部沙漠地带的兰开斯特市的一家工厂，该厂以前生产房车。这家空荡荡的工厂里只有为数不多的一些本地工人，其中几名还在房车厂关门时被裁。近日的一个午后，三名来自中国的工程师在到这里安装工厂设备。
This year, Los Angeles transportation officials agreed to buy as many as 25 buses from B.Y.D. over the next several years. In its proposal, the company said it would hire employees locally — company officials say for every bus that is ordered, they need one or two workers here. At the same time, the company is trying to persuade transit agencies to buy the buses by offering up a prototype built at its headquarters in Shenzen, China. Last month, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York began testing a B.Y.D. all-electric bus along routes on the Upper West Side and in Midtown Manhattan.
今年，洛杉矶运输部门同意在今后几年内向比亚迪购买25辆巴士。比亚迪在提交的规划书中表示将在本地雇佣员工，公司的管理人员表示，他们需要在本地为每一辆定购的巴士雇佣一到两名工人。与此同时，比亚迪还在努力说服各运输部门向它购买巴士，提供其深圳总厂制造的样车。上个月，纽约大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)开始在上西城和曼哈顿中城的一些线路上测试比亚迪的一款纯电动车巴士。
B.Y.D. officials say they expect to hire more engineers in the coming months and would continue to bring workers from China to help train new employees.
比亚迪的高层表示，他们希望在未来几个月里雇佣更多工程师，并将继续请中国的工人来帮助培训新员工。
Chinese workers told investigators that they were working in Los Angeles for one to six months, living in dormitory-style housing in the San Gabriel Valley, a heavily Asian suburban area just east of Los Angeles. One worker said they were earning $1.50 an hour plus a $50-per-day allowance.
中国工人告诉调查人员，他们在洛杉矶的工作时间为一到六个月，住在洛杉矶以东的华人集聚郊区圣加布里埃尔山谷的一些宿舍式房子里。一名工人说，他们的时薪是1.5美元，另外还有每天50美元的补助。
The state fined the company a total of $99,245, citing it for failing to provide minimum wage, not providing workers’ compensation insurance and not giving a second brief rest break.
州政府对比亚迪开出了总计99245美元的罚款，理由是没有给员工支付最低标准工资、劳工保险，也不允许工人享受第二次工间休息。
“Workers in this kind of underground economy may not know what their rights are,” Ms. Su said. “It doesn’t matter where a company is based, if an employee is working here, the company has to abide by California law when they’re doing work in California. In no scenario is it permissible to cycle people through to get around our state’s laws.”
“在这种地下经济中工作的人可能并不清楚自己有何种权利，”苏维思说。“这跟一家公司的总部在哪里是无关的，如果员工是在这里工作，这家公司就必须遵守加利福尼亚的相关法律。在任何情况下，公司都不允许通过轮转员工来绕过我们的州法律。”
Mr. Austin described the workers as “terrified” by the investigation, and said that it was “a waste of taxpayer dollars.”
奥斯汀说，这些工人被调查人员“吓坏了”，称这种行为是“浪费纳税人的钱”。
The company is also being sued by Sandra Itkoff, a former vice president who helped secure the Los Angeles deal. Ms. Itkoff has charged that she was a victim of discrimination and was wrongfully fired. In court papers, Ms. Itkoff asserts that she was the only non-Chinese-speaking employee in the office, and that executives routinely took advantage of Chinese workers. The company dismissed the claims and said that Ms. Itkoff was fired after she physically attacked another company executive.
另外，比亚迪的一位前副总裁桑德拉·伊特科夫(Sandra Itkoff)也对公司提起了诉讼。伊特科夫帮助比亚迪敲定了洛杉矶的竞标项目。她提出，她在比亚迪遭受了歧视，并被以不正当理由解雇。在提交法院的文件里，伊特科夫声称，她是办公室里唯一一名不说中文的员工，公司高层们常常会侵占中国工人的利益。比亚迪否认了这些指控，并说伊特科夫被解雇是因为打了另一名公司高管。
Madeline Janis, the national policy director with the Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy, who tipped state investigators off to the Chinese workers, accused the company of creating a “willful deception.”
洛杉矶新经济联盟(Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy)的全国政策主任马德琳·贾妮斯(Madeline Janis)向州调查人员举报了中国工人的情况，她指责比亚迪“有意欺瞒”。
“It’s a double outrage that they received money in the name of economic development and instead are importing people for the very jobs they promised,” Ms. Janis said.
“他们以经济发展为名拿到了钱，却又输入劳工来做那些他们承诺留给当地人的工作岗位，这是一种双重的违规，”贾妮斯说。
Austin Beutner, the former deputy mayor who brokered the deal between the city and B.Y.D., said that it would be unfair to judge the company only by the number of residents hired so far. The region will benefit as long as the company continues to expand, he said.
促成了洛杉矶和比亚迪交易的前副市长奥斯汀·博伊特纳(Austin Beutner)表示，单单根据比亚迪目前雇佣的本地工人人数来做出判断会有失公正。他说，只要公司进一步发展，那么这个地区就会受益。
“Whether they’re employing two dozen people or 50 from here, they are still adding to the local economy and investing here,” Mr. Beutner said. “It’s a long race — we need companies who are serious and are willing to make their long-term strategy here, which they clearly are.”
“不论他们是从本地雇二十多人还是50人，他们都是在给本地经济做出贡献，也在这里进行投资，”博伊特纳表示。“这是一项长远规划——我们需要有诚意的、愿意针对本地制定长期发展计划的公司，比亚迪无疑就是这样的公司。”