HONG KONG — Shares in BYD, a Chinese car company backed by Warren E. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, plunged without explanation by as much as 47 percent on Thursday, losing more than $1 billion in market value for the day.
香港——得到沃伦·E·巴菲特(Warren E. Buffett)的伯克希尔-哈撒韦(Berkshire Hathaway)投资的中国汽车公司比亚迪(BYD)的股价，在周四毫无理由地暴跌了高达47％，当天市值损失逾十亿美元。
BYD, which is based in the southern city of Shenzhen and makes electric vehicles, batteries and mobile phone handsets, said it could not explain the sudden decrease, which coincided with surging trading volumes in its stock.
比亚迪的总部设在中国南部城市深圳，其产品包括电动汽车、电池和移动电话；公司表示，它无法解释股价的暴跌，在暴跌的同时，公司股票的交易额出现突增。
In an announcement to the Hong Kong stock exchange on Thursday afternoon, BYD said it was “not aware of any reasons for these price or volume movements or of any information which must be announced to avoid a false market in the company’s securities or of any inside information that needs to be disclosed.”
周四下午，比亚迪在向香港证券交易所发布的声明中称，公司“并不知悉导致该等价格或成交量波动之任何原因，或任何必须公布以避免本公司证券出现虚假市场之资料，或须予披露之任何内幕消息”。
Shares in BYD rose in morning trading on Thursday, but plummeted in the afternoon session before recovering slightly and finishing the day down 29 percent. The company lost 9.3 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $1.2 billion, in market value.
在周四上午的交易中，比亚迪的股价曾出现上升，但在午后发生暴跌，随后略有回升，当天收盘价下跌了29％。公司市值损失了93亿港元，即约12亿美元（约合74.6亿元人民币）。
Trading activity in the stock was extraordinarily high. Around 253 million shares in BYD changed hands on Thursday, nearly 20 times the average daily trading volume during the last month.
股票交易量非常大。周三，比亚迪股票交易量达到2.53亿股，是上个月日均交易量的20倍。
Investors and analysts were at a loss to explain the sell-off; Berkshire Hathaway has a 9 percent stake in the company, held through its MidAmerican Energy unit.
投资商及分析人士都感到非常困惑，无法解释股票跌价的原因。伯克希尔-哈撒韦通过中美能源控股公司(MidAmerican Energy)持有比亚迪9%的股份。
Local news reports in Hong Kong cited potential speculation that the company had come under financial stress because of the weakness of the Russian ruble. A day earlier, shares in Geely Automobile, another Chinese carmaker, had closed down 17 percent. Geely warned on Tuesday that its profit for 2014 was likely to fall around 50 percent, partly because of foreign exchange losses related to its operations in Russia.
香港的新闻报道列举了一种可能的猜测——俄罗斯货币卢布的走弱导致该公司面临财务压力。一天之前，另一家中国汽车制造商吉利汽车股价收盘大跌17%。吉利在周二警告称，该公司2014年的利润可能会降低50%，这部分是由与俄罗斯业务有关的汇兑损失造成的。