LOS ANGELES — THERE’S a newcomer to this city’s auto row. Compared to the shiny showrooms displaying the latest Mercedeses and Toyotas, the Chinese carmaker BYD’s outpost in the shadow of downtown skyscrapers looks rather forlorn.
洛杉矶——这个城市的诸多汽车展厅中出现了一张“新面孔”。与展示着梅赛德斯(Mercedeses)和丰田(Toyota)最新车型的炫目展厅相比，在市中心一幢幢摩天大楼的阴影里，中国汽车制造商比亚迪(BYD)的店面看起来相当落寞。
Just two of its models — a red electric sport utility vehicle and a brown gasoline-powered sedan — are on view in an otherwise empty storefront.
店面里只展示了两款车型——一款红色的电动运动型多功能汽车(SUV)和一款棕色的汽油动力轿车——没有别的了。
But it’s the pair of 40-foot-long battery-powered buses parked across the street that is driving the company’s ambitions to become the first Chinese automaker to break into the United States market.
但是，停在街对面的两辆40英尺（约合12米）长的电池动力巴士正支撑着这家公司的雄心壮志——成为第一家打入美国市场的中国汽车制造商。
BYD this year became the first Chinese vehicle company to open manufacturing sites in the United States, building an electric bus assembly plant and a separate battery factory in Lancaster, a desert community 75 miles north of Los Angeles.
比亚迪今年成为了第一家在美国开设工厂的中国汽车公司，它在美国兰开斯特建造了一个电动巴士组装工厂以及一个单独的电池厂。兰开斯特是一个位于沙漠地区的社区，在洛杉矶以北75英里处。
The $30 billion company beat American competitors to win contracts to build electric buses for transit agencies in Los Angeles and nearby Long Beach. BYD is also pursuing deals to supply electric shuttle buses to rental car agencies, amusement parks and Silicon Valley technology companies.
这家价值300亿美元（约合人民币1800亿元）的公司打败了美国的多家竞争者，赢得了为洛杉矶及附近的长滩市的公交部门生产电动巴士的合同。比亚迪还在寻求为汽车租赁机构、游乐园以及硅谷的科技公司提供电动通勤巴士的交易。
In New York, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority began a two-month road-test of BYD’s battery-powered eBus in September.
纽约大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)从9月份开始对比亚迪电池动力的eBus进行道路试验，为期两个月。
“Buses are on the street and highly visible, so it’s a good way to get our name out there and build our reputation,” said Brendan Riley, BYD’s vice president for fleet sales, at the Los Angeles showroom.
比亚迪负责大客户销售的副总裁布伦丹·赖利(Brendan Riley)在洛杉矶的展厅说，巴士车在路上非常显眼，所以，这是我们提高品牌知名度、建立声誉的一个好方法。
“Once transit agencies work with BYD and understand BYD is going to take care of them with their bus fleets, we’ll get them to try our electric cars,” he added.
他补充说，“一旦公交部门与比亚迪合作，知道比亚迪会为它们的车队提供良好服务，人们就会尝试我们的电动汽车。”
BYD first came to Americans’ attention in 2008 when the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett bought 10 percent of the company, convinced that it would dominate China’s electric car market.
比亚迪首次引起美国人的注意是在2008年，当时，亿万富翁沃伦·E·巴菲特(Warren E. Buffett)收购了该公司10%的股份，因为他相信该公司将主宰中国的电动汽车市场。
Founded in 1995 as a mobile phone battery manufacturer, BYD has grown into a conglomerate that makes cars, buses, energy storage systems, solar panels, LED lighting and phones. Like other Chinese automakers, BYD has benefited from loans from state-owned banks and contracts to supply its electric vehicles to Chinese municipalities.
比亚迪1995年成立时是一家手机电池制造商，如今已成长为一家生产轿车、巴士、储能系统、太阳能板、LED照明和电话的集团企业。就像其他中国汽车制造商一样，比亚迪能够获得国有银行的贷款和为中国市政当局提供电动车辆的合同，并从中受益。
The company has sold electric cars in China since 2008 but is moving cautiously into the American market. Mr. Riley said BYD was mindful of Chinese cars’ reputation for poor quality and of Hyundai’s disastrous United States debut in 1986, when the South Korean company began selling a poorly built compact car that ruined its reputation for years.
比亚迪从2008年开始在中国销售电动汽车，目前正小心翼翼地进入美国市场。赖利说，比亚迪知道中国汽车以质量差出名，也知道韩国现代(Hyundai)1986年首次进入美国市场时所遭遇的惨败。那一年，这家韩国公司在美国销售了一款制作工艺很差的紧凑型汽车，声誉因此受到破坏，多年之后才恢复过来。
“We do not want to have missteps,” said Mr. Riley.
赖利说，“我们不想有任何差错。”
To that end, this year BYD began selling a small number of its e6 electric S.U.V.’s in the United States, but only to corporate fleets. The company has also placed the e6 with companies as demonstrator models. It has no plans to export its gasoline-powered models to the American market.
因此，比亚迪今年开始在美国销售少量的e6型号的电动SUV，但是仅向企业客户销售。这家公司还把e6作为展示车型提供给各家公司。比亚迪目前没有向美国市场出口汽油动力车型的计划。
The $52,000 e6 is powered by an iron phosphate battery that BYD says gives the car a range of 186 miles on a charge, compared with around 75 miles for most other electric cars available in the United States.
价格为5.2万美元的e6车型由磷酸铁锂电池提供动力。比亚迪说，这款车充满电后的续航距离为186英里，相比之下，美国市场上的大多数其他电动车的续航距离为75英里。
“You don’t really want to bring a car into a market that is not properly supported,” said Mr. Riley. “When you sell cars into fleets you can co-locate engineers and parts.”
赖利说，“你不会想要把一款车带到一个没有相应支持的市场。向大客户销售汽车时，你可以同时把工程师和零件送到那里。”
BYD has sold the e6 to taxi fleets in China, Britain and South America, and Mr. Riley expects it to pursue a similar strategy in the United States.
比亚迪已经向中国、英国和南非的出租车公司销售了e6车型。赖利预计，比亚迪将会在美国采取类似的策略。
For now, the company’s challenge is proving it can manufacture its $800,000 eBus in the United States and meet federal standards for durability and safety. It recently suffered a setback when a bus being tested at a federal facility in Pennsylvania suffered cracks in its frame. And in October California officials fined the company $99,245 for violating state labor laws; the company said it would appeal the ruling. 
公司目前面临的挑战是要证明自己可以在美国生产80万美元的电动巴士，并达到美国的耐用性和安全性的标准。比亚迪最近遭遇了一次挫折：在宾夕法尼亚的一处联邦机构进行检测时，一辆巴士的车体出现了多处裂痕。10月，加州的官员对比亚迪处以99245美元的罚款，称其违反了该州的劳工法；比亚迪说，将对这一裁决提出上诉。
The first buses, which have a range of 155 miles on a charge, are set to roll off the Lancaster assembly line later this year to fulfill contracts with transit agencies in Los Angeles and Long Beach.
第一批巴士的一次充电续航距离为155英里。这批巴士将于今年晚些时候在兰开斯特的组装流水线上完成，以交付洛杉矶和长滩的公交部门，来完成相关合同。
California has adopted regulations that will require 15 percent of municipal bus fleets to be powered by low-carbon alternative fuels. That prompted the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority in June to award BYD a $20.7 million contract to supply up to 25 electric buses.
加州已经采取了一些规定，将要求15%的市政巴士采用低碳的替代燃料。这促使洛杉矶县都会运输局(Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority)在今年6月与比亚迪签署了一个价值2070万美元的合同，涉及25辆电动巴士。
Richard Hunt, the agency’s head of bus procurement, said the range and size of the eBus and the fact that BYD had deployed more than 700 of the vehicles worldwide persuaded Los Angeles to take a chance on a relatively unknown Chinese company. To hedge its bets, the agency placed an initial order for five vehicles and will evaluate them before buying additional eBuses.
该机构巴士采购负责人理查德·亨特(Richard Hunt)说，考虑到比亚迪电动巴士的续航距离和体积，以及该公司已经在全世界卖出了超过700辆这种巴士的事实，洛杉矶决定与这家相对不知名的中国公司开展合作，试试看。为了防范风险，该机构先期订单的规模仅为五辆汽车，在评估后再决定是否购买更多电动汽车。
“These are expensive vehicles, and we don’t want to make costly mistakes,” Mr. Hunt said. “But we do think electric buses are the way to go for the environment.”
亨特说，“这些车都价格不菲，我们不想为错误负担很大的成本。但是我们认为，为了环保，电动巴士是大势所趋。”
Though the eBus costs roughly twice as much as a conventional diesel bus, Mr. Riley of BYD said the eBus could pay for itself in three years because of savings in fuel and maintenance.
尽管电动汽车的价格大约是传统的柴油巴士的两倍，比亚迪的赖利说，由于节省了燃料和维护的费用，只需三年的时间，电动巴士节省下的钱就能抵消掉相关成本。
A Long Beach Transit spokesman, Kevin Lee, said his agency was receiving $7.4 million in government grants to offset the $12.1 million cost of 10 eBuses it ordered. He said the lower operating cost of the electric bus and its ability to run all day on a single charge persuaded the city to take a chance on BYD.
长滩运输局(Long Beach Transit)的发言人凯文·李(Kevin Lee)说，他的机构将获得政府的740万美元补助，这些钱将用于支付订购10辆电动巴士所需的1210万美元。他说，电动汽车较低的运营成本，以及一次充电支持全天行驶的能力，使长滩市决定试着与比亚迪合作。
Mr. Lee noted that the bus’s 324 kilowatt-hour battery — for comparison, the e6 S.U.V. has a 61.4 kilowatt-hour battery — and its ability to return electricity to the grid mean it could be a rolling generator of power in blackouts.
李指出，这种巴士的324千瓦时的电池——相比之下，e6型SUV使用的是61.4千瓦时的电池——以及它将电力输送回电网的能力意味着，在停电的时候，它能够充当临时发电机。
BYD’s Southern California factory also represents a foothold into another potentially lucrative market: energy storage.
借助在加州南部的工厂，比亚迪还可能进入另一个有利可图的市场：能源存储。
California, for instance, will require the state’s big utilities to operate 1,325 megawatts of energy storage to help balance the power grid as more sources of renewable but intermittent energy come online.
例如，由于越来越多的不稳定的可再生能源入网，加州将要求该州的大型设施装配132.5万千瓦的储能设备，为电网提供支持。
In a partnership with the home builder KB Home, BYD has developed home battery systems to store electricity generated by rooftop solar panels, and it plans to package its bus batteries into huge units capable of storing large amounts of electricity.
比亚迪还与房屋建筑商KB Home合作开发了住房电池系统，储存由房顶太阳能板产生的电能。该公司计划把巴士电池放进能够储存大量电能的巨型储能单元中。
“We really see California adopting this technology sooner than anyone else,” said Mr. Riley.
赖利说，“我们认为加州将会最先采用这个技术。”