In addition to eradicating polio in India and launching the personal computer revolution, the Seattle Superman of our age has managed to make going to the bathroom a cause célèbre. Five years ago, if I’d told someone I worked on toilets, they would have surely assumed I was a plumber. Now, people exclaim: “Oh! Isn’t Bill Gates into that?”
除了根除印度的小儿麻痹症和发起个人电脑革命外，我们这个时代的西雅图超人还让上厕所成了一件轰动的事。五年前，如果我告诉别人我的工作和厕所有关，他们肯定以为我是个管道工。但现在，人们会惊叫着说：“啊！比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)不也在做这一行吗？”
More than one-third of the world’s population — approximately 2.5 billion people — don’t have access to a toilet. The Gates Foundation and a handful of celebrities, deserve credit for putting this sanitation crisis on the map.
全世界有超过三分之一的人，即大约25亿人没有厕所可用。盖茨基金会(Gates Foundation)和少数几个名人让这一卫生危机引起公众的关注，这一点值得肯定。
The trouble is that the Gates Foundation has treated the quest for finding the proper solution as they would a cutting-edge project at Microsoft: lots of bells and whistles, sky-high budgets and engineers in elite institutions experimenting with the newest technologies, thousands of miles away from their clients.
问题是，盖茨基金会在物色合适解决方案时，就像对待微软(Microsoft)的某个尖端项目一样：大量花里胡哨的功能，庞大的预算，精英机构的工程师在距离客户几千英里的地方用最新科技做实验。
Just consider some of the parameters of the Gates Foundation’s first Reinvent the Toilet Challenge: create a “practical” toilet that is suitable for a single-family residence in the developing world. Make sure it takes in the bodily waste of an entire family and outputs drinkable water and condiments, like salt. And while you’re at it, make sure that the toilet is microprocessor-supervised and converts feces into energy. And all this has to cost just pennies per person per day. That’s some toilet.
想想盖茨基金会首届厕所创新大赛(Reinvent the Toilet Challenge)的一些限定条件吧：发明一个适合发展中世界独户住宅使用的“实用”厕所。要确保这种厕所能吸纳全家人的排泄物，并输出饮用水和像盐那样的调味品。哦，既然已经提到了新颖技术，那就确保这种厕所处在微处理器的监控之下，并能将粪便转化成能源。而且所有这些功能的成本必须维持在每人每天几美分的水平。这可真是不一般的厕所。
The winner of last year’s contest invented a solar-powered toilet that converts poop into energy for cooking. Impressive — but each one costs $1,000.
去年那届比赛的获胜者发明了一种太阳能厕所，这种厕所能把粪便转化成做饭用的能源。的确令人惊叹，但这种厕所每个成本1000美元（约合6100元人民币）。
Other models boasted membrane systems, treatment of fecal sludge using supercritical water oxidation (heating water to 705 degrees Fahrenheit, or 374 degrees Celsius, then injecting oxygen) and hydrothermal carbonization (oxidizing feces at a high temperature and high pressure while under water).
其他厕所宣称自己使用了膜系统，用超临界水氧化法（把水加热到华氏705度，也就是374摄氏度，然后再注入氧）和水热碳化法（在高温高压的环境下在水下氧化粪便）处理粪便。
High-tech toilets are exciting, but even the Gates Foundation has admitted that “the economics of such a solution remain uncertain.” In plain English: No one can afford them.
高科技厕所令人兴奋，但就连盖茨基金会也承认“这种解决办法的经济性仍不明朗”。用大白话来说：没人用得起它们。
They are beyond impractical for those who need them most: the residents of slums in countries like Haiti, Indonesia and Bangladesh, where people make between $1 and $5 per day.
对那些最需要它们的人，比如海地、印度尼西亚和孟加拉国等国家的贫民窟居民而言，它们根本不切实际。在这样的地方，人们每天的收入在1至5美元之间。
Just imagine the fate of a high-tech toilet in one of these communities. What happens if the unique membrane systems get clogged? Or if the supercritical water vessel or the hydrothermal carbonization tank leaks, or worse, explodes? Or what if one of the impoverished residents realizes the device is worth more than a year’s earnings and decides to steal it? If the many failed development projects of the past 60 years have taught us anything, it’s that complicated, imported solutions do not work.
想象一下，一个高科技厕所在一个这样的社区里会有怎样的命运。如果那些独特的膜系统堵塞了怎么办？那些超临界水箱或水热碳化箱漏水，或者（更糟糕）发生了爆炸怎么办？又或者，如果某个贫穷的居民意识到这个厕所的价值比自己一年的收入还高，因此决定把它偷走怎么办？如果过去60年期间大量失败的发展项目教会了我们什么，那就是复杂的、引进的解决办法不管用。
The people I’ve met in countries like Peru, El Salvador and Haiti tend to be subsistence farmers in the countryside or residents of big-city slums who do odd jobs to make ends meet. They are survivors. They make use of what they have, and are often very good at fixing things. But don’t ask them to become industrial engineers overnight.
我在秘鲁、萨尔瓦多和海地等国遇到的人往往都是乡下在生存线上挣扎的农民，或是大城市里为了养家糊口而打零工的贫民窟居民。他们是生存者。他们利用手头可用的东西，往往很擅长修修补补。但不能要求他们在一夜之间变成工业工程师。
When I listen to Mr. Gates talk toilets, I think of Juana, who lives in Belen, Peru, a city of 65,000 at the mouth of the Amazon River. Her neighborhood is under water half the year. During the other half, the drainage ditches are filled with excrement and rats.
在听盖茨谈论厕所问题时，我想起了生活在秘鲁贝伦的胡安娜(Juana)。贝伦市位于亚马逊河河口，有6.5万人口。一年中，她所在的社区有半年时间都是被水淹着的。另外半年的时间，排水沟里满是粪便和老鼠。
When Juana needs to relieve herself, she walks on a narrow plank for about 30 feet until she arrives at her bathroom — four rotting wooden posts wrapped with a tarp. She stands, precariously, on two narrow slats perched above a ditch and does what she needs to do. She also knows that her kids play nearby and worries about them getting sick, since the waste goes directly into the stream.
当胡安娜需要方便时，她会沿着一个窄木板上走大约30英尺，来到她那个用四根朽木桩和一块防水布围起来的厕所。她摇摇晃晃地站在搭在一条沟上面的两块窄板上解决问题。她知道自己的孩子就在附近玩耍，担心会让他们染病，因为排泄物会径直进入溪流。
Poor sanitation contributes to 2,000 childhood deaths from diarrheal diseases. Unfortunately for Juana, and the millions of people that live on marginal, waterlogged land, there are no cheap solutions available. What they need are the kind of toilets that they can buy or build with a few weeks’ savings. Ecological toilets that use natural composting to break down waste are simple to construct, waterless and are easy to fix. This is the go-to toilet for cottage owners in America who live too close to the water to have a septic system.
恶劣的卫生条件导致2000名儿童死于腹泻类疾病。不幸的是，对胡安娜以及生活在贫瘠的水涝地上的数百万人而言，没有便宜的解决办法。他们需要的是那种只用几周省下的钱就能买得起或造得起的厕所。利用自然的制造堆肥的方式分解粪便的生态厕所建造简单，省水，而且容易修理。对美国那些因为住的地方离水太近而没法修建化粪系统的小屋主人来说，这是理想的厕所。
The only problem is they’re too expensive, with price tags of over $1,000. In Haiti, an organization called SOIL has successfully brought low-cost composting toilets to over 20,000 people; and my organization is working on developing a more affordable version.
唯一的问题是，它们太贵了，价格超过1000美元。在海地，一个名为SOIL的组织已经给2万多人成功地带来了低成本的堆肥厕所，而我的组织正在开发一种更廉价的设计。
Even simple solutions like the peepoo bag, which inexpensively (less than 2 cents per bag) sanitizes waste before turning it into fertilizer, are huge improvements. They can also be critical in saving lives after natural disasters.
即便是简单的解决办法，比如每个不到2美分，能够先对粪便进行消毒，然后将其转化成肥料的卫生袋(peepoo bag)，也是巨大的进步。在自然灾害过后，它们也可能对拯救生命起到至关重要的作用。
If we embrace these low-tech toilets, we will be on the right track to getting 2.5 billion people one step closer to having a safe, clean, comfortable and affordable toilet of their own. That’s something worth celebrating this World Toilet Day.
如果我们采纳这些低科技厕所，我们就走上了正确道路，让25亿人离拥有自己安全、干净、舒适而且负担得起的厕所走近一步。这一点值得今年的世界厕所日(World Toilet Day)庆祝。