BRUSSELS — A noisy citizen journalist who reveled in verbal and physical fights in public spaces, Fayçal Cheffou never quite fit the profile of a furtive underground operative for the Islamic State. Yet that was the role assigned to him when the Belgian authorities announced that he had been charged with terrorism and the Belgian news media identified him as the “third bomber” at Brussels Airport in last Tuesday’s attacks.
布鲁塞尔——费萨尔·谢弗(Fayçal Cheffou)是一个吵吵闹闹的公民记者，热衷于在公共场所开展口头和肢体战斗，似乎和鬼鬼祟祟的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)秘密活动分子的形象天差地远。然而在上周二，当比利时当局指控他犯有恐怖主义罪行，比利时新闻媒体称他是布鲁塞尔机场爆炸案“第三名嫌疑人”时，他正是被冠上了这样的身份。
Mr. Cheffou’s arrest last week, curiously easy as he was picked up right outside the federal prosecutor’s office, signaled a big break for a Belgian security apparatus assailed by complaints that it had missed vital clues before the terrorist assault at the airport and a subway station.
上周逮捕谢弗的行动出人意料地轻松，当时他就在联邦检察官的办公室外面。这标志着比利时安全机构的一大突破，他们被认为在机场和地铁站遭受恐怖袭击之前曾错失了一些重要线索。
Now it looks as if the police got the wrong man, or at least lacked enough evidence to hold him. Mr. Cheffou was released on Monday.
现在看来，警察好像是抓错了人，或者至少是缺乏足够的证据来扣押他。谢弗在周一获释。
Vilified as “an extremist jihadi horror” early on Monday by a senior Belgian official, Mr. Cheffou was freed just a few hours later with the authorities acknowledging that the evidence against a man they had charged with terrorism and murder was not as strong as they had thought. This suggested that Mr. Cheffou had been mistakenly identified by a witness as the bomber in a dark hat and white coat in an airport surveillance photo.
周一早上，比利时一位高级官员还鄙视地说他是“极端主义的圣战恐怖分子”，仅仅几小时后，谢弗就获得了释放。当局承认，他们以恐怖主义和谋杀罪指控的一名男子，证据并没有他们原本以为的那么有力。此事表明，一名目击者可能把谢弗错误地指认成了机场监控照片里那名戴黑帽、穿白外套的袭击者。
On Monday, the Belgian police again asked for help identifying that bomber, releasing for the first time surveillance video showing him and the two other attackers slowly pushing luggage carts through the airport with large black bags on them.
周一，比利时警方再次向大家求助指认那名袭击者，并且第一次发布了一段监控录像，显示他和另外两名袭击者缓慢地推着行李车穿过机场，行李车上放着黑色大包。
To add to the confusion, Eric Van der Sijpt, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office, said Monday that the charges against Mr. Cheffou remained for the moment.
愈发令人困惑的是，比利时联邦检察部门的发言人埃里克·范德吉普特(Eric Van der Sjipt)周一表示，针对费萨尔·谢弗的指控目前仍未撤销。
“We’re not saying that he’s innocent. That we do not do,” Mr. Van der Sijpt said in telephone interview. “It’s that he’s no longer needed in prison. But there are two different things. Preventative custody has nothing to do with the actual investigations or the charges brought.”
“我们不是说他是无辜的。我们并没有那样说，”范德吉普特在电话采访中说。“而是说他不再需要被关在监狱里了。这是两回事。预防性羁押和实际调查或者提出指控没有关系。”
He added that the prosecutor would decide at the end of the investigation whether to prosecute Mr. Cheffou, and that only then would the status of the charges against him be decided.
他还表示，检察官会在调查结束后决定是否起诉谢弗，只有到那时候针对他的指控才会确定下来。
In a separate statement, the prosecutor’s office said Monday that three men detained in and around Brussels on Sunday had been charged with participating in the activities of a terrorist group. It was not clear if they were connected to the attacks last Tuesday.
检察官办公室在周一发表声明称，周日在布鲁塞尔及周边地区被羁押的三名男子被控参与恐怖组织活动。目前尚不清楚他们是否与上周二的袭击行动有关。
The disarray over Mr. Cheffou followed a catalog of mishaps and errors that last week prompted Belgium’s ministers of justice and the interior to offer their resignations — they were asked to stay on — and led to angry questioning of the government during a parliamentary hearing on Belgium’s response to terrorism.
谢弗被羁押一事引发混乱，在此之前，一系列不幸和错误促使比利时司法部长及内政部长上周提出辞职——他们被要求留任——导致政府在有关比利时应对恐怖主义举措的国会听证会上遭到愤怒质问。
Reflecting public outrage over mounting evidence that the authorities ignored or misinterpreted signals that might have prevented the attacks, Le Soir, a leading French-language Belgian newspaper, last week splashed a damning indictment of the security apparatus across its front page: “Serious mistakes.” La Capitale, another newspaper, was blunter still: “Chaos,” its front page screamed.
比利时主要的法语报纸《晚报》(Le Soir)上周在头版严厉指责安全部门“严重失误”。另一家报纸《首都报》(La Capitale)更为直接，在头版写道：“混乱”。
Since then, dismay has only increased, with rival French- and Dutch-speaking politicians trading accusations on Monday over who was responsible for allowing several hundred hooligans to storm a makeshift shrine to the victims of the terrorist attacks in front of the old Brussels stock exchange on Sunday. The French speakers denounced the hooligans, who had assembled on Saturday in the town of Vilvoorde, north of Brussels, as Dutch-speaking fascists.
此后，这种沮丧情绪不断加剧，周日，数以百计的流氓出现在老布鲁塞尔证券交易所前为恐怖袭击遇难者设置的临时祭奠地，讲法语和荷兰语的两派政治人士周一就谁该为此事负责而互相指责。讲法语的政治人士指责这些流氓是讲荷兰语的法西斯主义者，这些人于周六下午聚集在布鲁塞尔北部的菲尔福尔德镇。
Then, just as the hooligan furor was reaching its peak, the federal prosecutor’s office announced that Mr. Cheffou, named only as Fayçal C. in official statements, had been released. And with that the best hope so far of piecing together the terrorist plot and perhaps identifying other plots in the works had suddenly evaporated. The three other people so far identified as directly involved in last week’s attacks — two brothers, Ibrahim and Khalid el-Bakraoui, and the suspected bomb-maker, Najim Laachraoui — are all dead.
就在流氓的扰乱活动达到顶峰时，联邦检察官办公室宣布谢弗获释，官方声明只提到“费萨尔·C”这个名字。至此，弄清恐怖阴谋或发现正在策划中的其他阴谋的最大希望突然成为泡影。到目前为止已被认定直接参与上周恐怖袭击行动的三人——哈立德·巴克拉维(Khalid el-Bakraoui)和易卜拉欣·巴克拉维(Ibrahim el-Bakraoui)兄弟及涉嫌制造炸弹的纳吉姆·拉克哈维(Najim Laachraou)——都已死亡。
“The evidence that had led to the arrest of the man named Fayçal C. was not substantiated by the evolution of the ongoing investigation,” Thierry Werts, another spokesman for the federal prosecutor, said in a statement. “Consequently, he has been freed by the investigative judge.”
“随着调查的展开，最初促使警方逮捕了一个名为费萨尔·C的男子的证据，被认为是不充分的，”联邦检察官发言人蒂埃里·沃茨(Thierry Werts)发表声明称。“负责调查的法官因此释放了他。”
Belgians writing on Twitter in Dutch expressed outrage over the latest turn of events. “We got him but it was the wrong guy #painful,” said one. Another fumed: “Cheffou the new hero of the Left on Twitter. I’m going to be sick.” Others, mostly writing in French, pilloried the authorities for having arrested Mr. Cheffou in the first place.
比利时人在Twitter用荷兰语发帖子，表示对事件的最新进展感到愤怒。其中一人写道，“我们抓到了他，但却抓错了#难过。”另一人愤怒地表示：“谢弗成为Twitter上左翼新英雄。我快要吐了。”其他人主要在嘲笑当局起初逮捕谢弗的行动，其中多数人用的是法语。
Mr. Cheffou had been picked out of a photographic lineup by a cabdriver who shuttled three men to Brussels Airport, where two of them — Ibrahim el-Bakraoui and Mr. Laachraoui — blew themselves up at 7:58 a.m. last Tuesday. Mr. Bakraoui’s younger brother, Khalid, blew himself up at 9:11 a.m. at the Maelbeek subway station.
一名出租车司机在照片中指认出谢弗。这名司机曾将三名男子送到布鲁塞尔机场，其中包括于上周二上午7点58份在机场引爆自杀式炸弹的易卜拉欣·巴克拉维和拉克哈维。易卜拉欣的弟弟哈立德上午9点11分在马尔比克(Maelbeek)地铁站引爆自杀式炸弹。
The death toll from the attacks rose on Monday to 35, as the authorities reported that four victims who had been hospitalized died from their injuries. The toll, which was reported by the Belgian health minister, Maggie De Block, did not include the three suicide bombers.
周一，当局报告称四名入院治疗的受害者因伤势过重死亡，此次袭击事件造成的死亡人数上升至35人。比利时卫生部长玛吉·德布洛克(Maggie De Block)报告的死亡人数并不包括三名自杀式炸弹袭击者。