UPDATE: PARIS — President François Hollande of France called on Monday to amend the Constitution to fight potential terrorists at home and for an aggressive effort to “eradicate” the Islamic State abroad.
更新：巴黎——法国总统奥朗德周一呼吁修改宪法，以打击国内潜在的恐怖分子，并主动开展行动“消灭”海外的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。
His call to arms — “France is at war,” he said at the opening of his remarks to a joint session of the Parliament — came as security forces in France and Belgium zeroed in on a suspect they said was the architect of the assault that killed 129 people Friday night in Paris. The suspect, a 27-year-old Belgian, has fought for the Islamic State in Syria and has been linked to other terrorist attacks.
他呼吁使用武力——“法国处于战争状态”，他在一场议会联席会议上以这句话作为开场白。与此同时，法国和比利时的安全部队已经把注意力集中在一名27岁的比利时人身上，他们认为此人是上周五晚导致129人遇难的巴黎袭击案的主谋。这名犯罪嫌疑人曾在叙利亚境内为伊斯兰国战斗，与其他恐怖袭击也有联系。
Mr. Hollande spoke after the French police raided homes and other sites across the country in an effort to head off possible further attacks and the authorities in Belgium hunted for a suspected assailant in Friday’s attacks.
奥朗德发表讲话前，法国警方突击搜查了全国各地的多处房屋和其他场所，试图阻止可能会出现的进一步袭击，比利时当局也对一名涉嫌参与周五的袭击的人展开了追查。
Mr. Hollande called for quick action by the Parliament on new legislation that would give the government more flexibility to conduct police raids without a warrant and place people under house arrest. He said he would seek court approval for broader surveillance powers. And he called for constitutional amendments that would give more weight to security measures relative to civil liberties.
奥朗德呼吁议会在新的立法方面迅速采取行动。新立法将让政府有更多的灵活性，警方可以在没有授权的情况下进行突击搜查，对人实施软禁。奥朗德表示自己将争取让法院批准更广泛的监控权。他还呼吁对宪法做出修改，与公民自由相比更多强调安全措施。
The changes he is seeking would, among other things, extend the current state of emergency for three months and let the government strip the citizenship of French natives who are convicted of terrorism and hold a second passport. 
他正在争取的变革及其他措施包括把当前的紧急状态延长三个月，并允许政府剥夺被判有恐怖主义罪行且持多本护照的法国人的国籍。
BRUSSELS — The French authorities have concluded that Abdelhamid Abaaoud, a 27-year-old Belgian man who has fought in Syria for the Islamic State, was the mastermind of the Paris terrorist attacks.
布鲁塞尔——法国当局作结论称，曾在叙利亚为伊斯兰国作战的27岁比利时男子阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴阿奥德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)是巴黎恐怖袭击事件的主谋。
A French official briefed on the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss operational details, said that Mr. Abaaoud, who had been wanted in Belgium for a terrorist plot that was foiled in January, had mentioned plans to attack “a concert hall” to a French citizen who had come back from Syria. Mr. Abbaoud, this official said, also was in contact with Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, one of the Paris attackers.
一位了解调查情况的法国官员说，阿巴阿奥德因与今年1月被挫败的一次恐怖袭击有关而受到比利时的通缉，他曾向一位从叙利亚回来的法国人提袭击“音乐厅”的计划。该官员要求不具名，因为他没有被授权讨论调查细节。这位官员说，阿巴阿奥德也与另一名参与巴黎袭击的人、伊斯梅尔·奥马尔·穆斯塔法伊(Ismaël Omar Mostefaï)有过接触。
President François Hollande of France declared that “France is at war,” and reiterated his determination to go after the Islamic State, saying that the French military would continue the airstrikes it launched on Sunday in Raqqa, the group’s Syrian stronghold. “It is not about containing, but destroying, that organization,” he told a rare joint session of Parliament at the Château de Versailles. Mr. Hollande proposed extending the state of emergency that he declared on Friday for three months, and making it easier to revoke the French citizenship of those who hold dual passports and are involved in terrorism.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)已宣布“法国处于战争状态”，并重申了绝不放过伊斯兰国的决心，他说，法国军队将继续周日开始的对拉卡的空袭，拉卡是该组织在叙利亚的据点。“这不是为了遏制，而是为了摧毁该组织，”奥朗德在凡尔赛宫召开的罕见的国会两院联席会议上说。奥朗德提出，将他上周五宣布的紧急状态延长至三个月，并提议对那些参与恐怖活动的拥有双重国籍者简化撤销他们法国公民权的手续。
The United States has provided support to the French airstrikes, but President Obama on Monday again ruled out a ground intervention. “Let’s assume that we were to send 50,000 troops into Syria,” he said at a gathering of leaders of the Group of 20 industrial and emerging-market economies in Antalya, Turkey. “What happens when there’s a terrorist attack generated from Yemen? Do we then send troops into there? Or Libya, perhaps?”
虽然美国已为法国的空袭提供了支持，但奥巴马总统在周一再次排除了进行地面干预的可能性。他在工业化国家和新兴经济体的领导人在土耳其安塔利亚举行的20国集团首脑会议上说，“假如我们派5万人进入叙利亚。如果有来自也门的人制造恐怖袭击的话，又该怎样呢？我们也派军队进入也门吗？也许，或者还有利比亚？”
Mr. Hollande’s declaration of war against the Islamic State came as French officials announced they had conducted sweeping police raids around the country overnight, detaining 23 people, and as a manhunt for  Salah Abdeslam, 26, who is believed to have helped carry out the Paris terrorist attacks, continued.
奥朗德对伊斯兰国宣战之际，法国官员宣布，他们已在全国各地进行了通宵搜捕，拘留了23人，而且，对据认曾为巴黎袭击提供帮助的26岁的萨拉赫·阿卜德斯拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)的追捕仍在继续。
In Belgium, heavily armed police officers wearing balaclavas descended on a Brussels neighborhood on Monday in an unsuccessful search for for Mr. Abdeslam. 
在比利时，带着巴拉克拉瓦盔式帽的全副武装的警察周一进入布鲁塞尔附近的一个居民区搜寻阿卜德斯拉姆未果。
The raid in the Molenbeek neighborhood if Brussels ended after more than three hours. Mr. Abdeslam’s brother Ibrahim was one of the attackers who died in Paris. A third brother, Mohamed, and four other men who had been detained were released on Monday.
对布鲁塞尔莫伦贝克居民区的搜索工作在三个多小时后结束。萨拉赫·阿卜德斯拉姆的哥哥易卜拉欣是巴黎袭击者之一，他已在袭击中身亡。阿卜德斯拉姆的另一个名叫穆罕默德的兄弟、以及其他四名被拘留的男子已于周一获释。
At noon, France observed a moment of silence in honor of the victims of the attack, which killed 129 people and injured about 350 others. The Metro and cars stopped and crowds gathered at a makeshift memorial at the Place de la République and at the Eiffel Tower. President François Hollande stood with students at the Sorbonne. Many recited the national anthem, the “Marseillaise,” after the moment passed. In other cities — Delhi, Doha and Dublin — crowds gathered at French embassies to pay their respect.
周一中午，法国为恐怖袭击的受害者默哀一分钟，袭击导致129人死亡，约350人受伤。地铁和汽车停了下来，人群聚集到共和国广场上和艾菲尔铁塔下临时搭建的纪念场所。奥朗德总统与学生一起站在索邦大厦前。静默之后，很多人唱起了国歌《马赛曲》。在新德里、多哈和都柏林等城市，人群聚集在法国大使馆前以示尊敬。
As the country observed its second of three days of national mourning, law-enforcement operations continued.
随着法国进入三天全国哀悼的第二天，执法人员的行动仍在继续。
Under a state of emergency that Mr. Hollande had declared on Friday, the police are empowered to conduct raids without a search warrant, and Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said 168 such raids had taken place in 19 French departments, including the Paris region and in Lille, Lyon, Marseille and Toulouse. The police arrested 23 people and confiscated 19 weapons, including 19 handguns, eight long guns and four heavy weapons, as well as computer hardware, mobile phones and narcotics. Another 104 people were placed under house arrest.
在奥朗德上周五宣布的紧急状态之下，警方有权进行搜查，无需事先获得搜查令。法国内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)说，已在19个法国地区进行了168次这种搜查，包括巴黎地区、里尔、里昂、马赛，以及图卢兹。警方已逮捕了23人，查获了19种武器，其中包括手枪、长枪，以及四个重型武器，还查获了电脑硬件、手机和毒品。另有104人被软禁。
In one home in the Rhône department, Mr. Cazeneuve said, the police found a Kalashnikov assault rifle, three automatic pistols, ammunition and bulletproof vests. Officers obtained a warrant to search the home of the parents of one suspect, where they found several automatic pistols, ammunition, police armbands, military clothing and a rocket-launcher.
卡泽纳夫说，在罗纳省的一个住所中，警方发现了一只卡拉什尼科夫突击步枪、三只自动手枪、弹药，以及防弹背心。警察还获得了搜查一名嫌犯父母的住所的搜查令，他们在那里发现了几只自动手枪、弹药、警察臂章、军装，以及一枚火箭发射器。
Mr. Cazeneuve said that the investigation on the attacks in Paris was “making quick progress” but that the threat of terrorist attacks “remains high.” Six attacks on French territory have been foiled or avoided since the spring, Mr. Cazeneuve said.
卡泽纳夫说，对巴黎恐怖袭击的调查“进展很快”，但恐怖袭击的威胁“仍然很高”。卡泽纳夫说，自春季以来，法国已挫败了6次其境内的袭击图谋。