We Americans do panic really well.
我们美国人的确很容易恐慌。
We could use a few pointers on prudence.
我们可能需要几条有关审慎的建议。
Do me a favor. Turn away from the ceaseless media coverage of Ebola in Texas — the interviews with the Dallas nurse’s neighbors, the hand-wringing over her pooch, the instructions on protective medical gear — and answer this: Have you had your flu shot? Are you planning on one?
拜托。不要再关注媒体对德州埃博拉疫情连篇累牍的报道了，那些报道的内容是对达拉斯那名护士的邻居的采访、对她那条狗表现出的过度悲伤以及防护性医疗设备的使用说明。还是回答一下这个问题吧：你注射流感疫苗了吗？你打算注射流感疫苗吗？
During the 2013-2014 flu season, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, only 46 percent of Americans received vaccinations against influenza, even though it kills about 3,000 people in this country in a good year, nearly 50,000 in a bad one.
根据美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）的数据，在2013至2014流感季，只有46%的美国人接种了预防流感的疫苗。而在美国，流感造成的死亡人数，年头好的时候一年大约为3000人，年头不好的时候接近5万人。
These are deaths by a familiar assassin. Many of them could have been prevented. So why aren’t we in a lather over that? Why fixate on remote threats that we feel we can’t control when there are immediate ones that we simply don’t bother to?
造成这些死亡的，是一个我们熟知的杀手。许多死亡本可以预防。那么，我们为何不担心这个问题呢？为什么盯着远方那些我们觉得无法控制的威胁不放，近在眼前的却懒得理？
On matters exotic, we’re rapt. On matters quotidian, which are nonetheless matters of life and death, we’re cavalier. Tens of thousands of Americans die in car crashes annually, and according to a federal analysis from 2012, more than half of them weren’t wearing seatbelts.
在外国事务上，我们全神贯注。而在身边的日常事务上，即便性命攸关，我们也漫不经心。每年有数万名美国人死于车祸，而一家联邦机构对2012年的车祸进行的分析表明，一半以上的死者没系安全带。
Perhaps that didn’t make a difference in many cases. In some, it probably did. But on this front, as on others, we have clear answers about how to minimize risk and we simply proceed to forget or ignore them.
或许在许多情况下，系不系安全带没什么区别。在部分情况下，它可能有区别。但在这个问题以及其他问题上，我们对如何最小化风险有明确的答案，却一直遗忘或忽略它们。
There’s no way to square skin-cancer statistics in the United States — more than 3.5 million cases diagnosed yearly and almost 10,000 deaths — with the number of Americans showing off their tans. They aren’t all getting body paint. They’ve been lectured about sunscreen and shade and hats. But vanity trumps sanity, and melanoma rides its coattails.
不可能拿美国的皮肤癌统计数据——每年超过350万皮肤癌确诊病例，以及近1万例死亡案例——和炫耀小麦色皮肤的美国人人数去比。他们可不是都在给皮肤染色。他们接受过有关防晒霜、阴凉的地方以及帽子的教育。但虚荣战胜了理智，黑素瘤也随之而来。
I’m not dismissing the horror of Ebola, a full-blown crisis in Africa that should command the whole world’s assistance. And Ebola in the United States certainly warrants concern. We’re still searching for definitive answers about transmission and prevention.
我不是不理会埃博拉的可怕。在非洲全面爆发的这场危机，值得全世界协助。而美国的埃博拉当然理应得到关注。我们依然在寻找有关它的传播和预防的明确答案。
But Americans already have such answers about a host of other, greater perils to our health, and we’d be wiser to reacquaint ourselves with those, and recommit to heeding them, than to worry about our imminent exposure to Ebola.
但对许多其他对我们的健康危害更大的问题，美国人已经有了这类答案。相比于担心即将接触到埃博拉，我们再次去了解那些问题，重新大力关注它们，会更明智。
“People get very fearful and stressed out and have a lot of anxiety about things like Ebola that aren’t a general health risk,” said Jeffrey Duchin, who is the chairman of the public health committee of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. “Just look at causes of death in the United States. Everything is higher than Ebola, and there are things that we can do about many of them.”
“对埃博拉等并非普遍健康风险的问题，人们感到很害怕，非常紧张，极其焦虑，”美国传染病协会(Infectious Disease Society of America)公共健康委员会主席杰弗里·达钦(Jeffrey Duchin)说。“看看美国人的死亡原因吧。所有的都比埃博拉的致死人数高。对其中许多原因，我们都能有所作为。”
Duchin, a physician, moderated a panel of experts who discussed Ebola at the society’s conference last week. These doctors sought to refocus attention on influenza, which lacks novelty but not potency.
在该协会上周举行的一次会议上，身为内科医生的达钦带领一个专家小组，对埃博拉进行了讨论。这些医生试图让注意力重新回到流感上。流感虽然缺乏新意，但影响却不小。
In my conversation with him, Duchin also pointed out that between 2.7 and 5.2 million Americans are believed to be infected with the hepatitis C virus. Deaths related to it can range widely, from 17,000 to 80,000 annually, he said. There’s a test for it. There’s effective treatment. But the C.D.C. says that up to 75 percent of the people with the virus don’t know they have it.
交谈期间，达钦还指出，据信有270万到520万美国人感染了丙型肝炎病毒。他说，每年与该病毒相关的死亡人数差异很大，从1.7万到8万人不等。有针对这种病毒的检测。也有有效的治疗手段。但CDC称，高达75%的病毒携带者不知道自己体内携有该病毒。
Stephen Morse, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, told me: “We have a lot of vaccine-preventable diseases and we see more and more people refusing to have their children take vaccines.”
哥伦比亚大学梅尔曼公共卫生学院(Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health)流行病学教授史蒂芬·莫尔斯(Stephen Morse)告诉我：“我们的很多疾病都可以通过疫苗预防，但却眼看着越来越多的人拒绝让自己的孩子接种疫苗。”
He was referring to outbreaks of measles and pertussis (or whooping cough) in states and cities where parents have hallucinated a connection between immunizations and autism. They cling to this fiction in the face of scientific information to the contrary.
他指的是麻疹和百日咳，在家长误以为免疫接种与自闭症有关联的州和城市，出现了这两种病的爆发。尽管科学给出了截然相反的信息，那些家长却依然坚持这一错觉。
Both The Hollywood Reporter and Time magazine recently published accounts of anti-vaccine madness among supposedly educated, affluent Americans in particular. According to the story in The Hollywood Reporter, by Gary Baum, the parents of 57 percent of the children at a Beverly Hills preschool and of 68 percent at one in Santa Monica had filed personal-belief exemptions from having their kids vaccinated.
前不久，《好莱坞记者报》(The Hollywood Reporter)和《时代》周刊(Time)都刊登了相关报道，特别报道了一些美国人中反对疫苗的愚蠢。据推测，这些人接受过教育，生活富裕。加里·鲍姆(Gary Baum)发表在《好莱坞记者报》上的那篇报道称，比弗利山一所幼儿园里57%的学生的家长，提交了自愿让孩子免于接种疫苗的申请。而在圣莫尼卡的另一所幼儿园，68%的学生的家长提交了申请。
Such numbers, Baum wrote, “are in line with immunization rates in developing countries like Chad and South Sudan.”
鲍姆写道，这样的数据“与乍得和南苏丹等发展中国家的免疫接种比率相符”。