PARIS — The authorities in Belgium said on Wednesday that one of the Paris attackers may have been holed up in a house in Brussels two nights after 130 people were killed and hundreds more injured — but that he could have escaped because of a law banning police raids on private homes from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., according to the country’s justice minister.
巴黎——比利时当局周三表示，在巴黎袭击事件导致130人死亡，数百人受伤两晚之后，一名袭击者可能曾在布鲁塞尔的一所房子里藏身，但据比利时司法部长透露，由于法律禁止警察在晚9点至早5点之间搜查私人住宅，这名袭击者可能因此得以逃走。
The revelation by the justice minister, Koen Geens, that the suspect, France’s most wanted man — Salah Abdeslam — might have gotten away because of an arcane law intended to safeguard family privacy only adds to the picture of a severely dysfunctional and ineffective government in Belgium.
司法部长科恩·吉恩斯(Koen Geens)透露，此名嫌疑人就是法国头号通缉犯萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)，他可能因为该国一部旨在保护家庭隐私的少有人知的法律而得以逃脱。这一消息更进一步强化了比利时政府紊乱、低效的名声。
The minister said in an interview broadcast on Wednesday night by the Dutch-language television station VTM that Mr. Abdeslam would have been caught if he were there, and a spokesman for the federal prosecutor’s office acknowledged in a telephone interview that “the immediate surroundings and the streets surrounding the property were not sealed off during the night.”
在荷兰语电视台VTM周三晚间播放的访谈中，这名司法部长表示，如果阿卜杜勒萨拉姆藏在那里，本来是可以抓到他的，而联邦检查官办公室的一名发言人接受电话采访时表示，“当晚没有封锁房子周边区域及周围街道。”
“All we know is that we had good reasons to believe that Salah Abdeslam was in the house that night, and that the next morning the raid was negative,” said Eric Van der Sijpt, the spokesman for the federal prosecutor in Brussels, who is leading the investigation.
“我们只知道我们有充分的理由相信萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆当晚藏在那所房子里，第二天清晨的搜查一无所获，”比利时联邦检察部门发言人、相关调查的负责人埃里克·范德吉普特(Eric Van der Sjipt)说。
Since the attacks, Mr. Abdeslam has managed to evade a widespread manhunt, even after the authorities in Brussels locked down the city for days. The new revelation adds to the list of apparent missed opportunities to seize him, shared by both the Belgian and French authorities. Though officials did not explain why they believed Mr. Abdeslam may have been in the house, the Belgian news media on Wednesday night quoted an anonymous source saying he was definitely there.
袭击之后，即便在布鲁塞尔当局连续几天封锁全城，展开大搜捕的情况下，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆还是成功脱身。新透露的信息说明比利时和法国当局似乎又一次错过了逮捕他的机会。虽然官员们没有说明他们为何认为阿卜杜勒萨拉姆可能曾藏身那所房子，比利时新闻媒体周三晚间援引一位匿名人士提供的信息称，他当时肯定在那里。
Mr. Van der Sijpt, clearly aware of how such a revelation would appear, tried to cast doubt on the idea that the law prevented the authorities from capturing Mr. Abdeslam, saying measures were taken to monitor the area, although he would not specify what was done. “If Salah Abdeslam had been there during the night, we would have gotten him,” he said. “We took measures throughout the night to make sure that Salah Abdeslam could not flee that particular home if he indeed was there.”
范德吉普特显然知道这种消息会带来何种反响，因此试图对该法律阻止了当局抓捕阿卜杜勒萨拉姆的说法提出质疑，称已经采取举措控制该区域，但他没有详细说明采取了哪些举措。“如果萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆当晚藏在那里，我们是可以抓住他的，”他说。“我们通宵采取举措，以确保如果萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆确实在那所房子里，他无法逃脱。”
He added: “All we know is that we had good reasons to believe that Salah Abdeslam was in the house that night, and that the next morning the raid was negative,” he said.
他还表示，“我们只知道我们有充分的理由相信萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆当晚藏在那所房子里，而第二天清晨的搜查一无所获。”
Still the notion that police knew where one of the attackers was hiding and did not pounce strained the credulity, apparently, even of Mr. Geens, the country’s top justice official, who in his television interview described the legal restriction against nighttime raids — dating to 1969 — as “a big handicap.” He said the police wanted to raid the home where they suspected Mr. Abdeslam was hiding right away, but could not act until after 5 a.m. which he said was “too late.”
然而想到警方知道其中一个袭击者的藏身地，却没有实施抓捕，即便是身为比利时最高司法官员的吉恩斯都感到难以置信。他在接受电视采访时称，从1969年开始的夜间突查限制是一道“巨大的障碍”。他说警方本希望立刻突查他们怀疑藏着阿卜杜勒萨拉姆的民宅，但是必须要到早上5点以后才能行动，而到那时，他说已经“太迟了”。
The decision to abide the law also underscored the consistent tension between security and civil liberties that governments in Europe and the United States have struggled to balance in an era of terrorist threats.
这一照章办事的决定，突显了在这个充斥恐怖主义威胁的时代，欧洲和美国政府正艰难地在势成水火的安全和公民自由之间寻找平衡。
For instance, Tashfeen Malik, the Pakistani woman who with her husband killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., was granted a visa to enter the United States even though she had posted a number of private messages online indicating that she had become radicalized. Federal officials said that visa officers were not permitted to look into applicants’ social media accounts because of concerns about privacy.
例如在加州圣贝纳迪诺和丈夫杀死14人的塔什芬·马利克(Tashfeen Malik)，尽管在网上发出的多条私人信息表明她已经激进化，最终还是得到了美国的入境签证。联邦官员称，出于隐私方面的考虑，签证官无权查看申请人的社交媒体账户。
Days after that failed raid on Nov. 16 in the Molenbeek district, the Belgian prime minister, Charles Michel, on Nov. 19 proposed 18 new security measures in an address to Parliament, including one that would allow the police to conduct raids at any time of the homes of people suspected of involvement in terrorist activity or suspected of possessing explosives, firearms or weapons of mass destruction on the premises.
11月16日在莫伦贝克的突查行动失败后，比利时总理夏尔·米歇尔(Charles Michel)于11月19日在国会讲话时提出了18项安全新举措，其中一条提到，当一座民宅被怀疑藏有涉嫌恐怖主义活动的人员，或爆炸物、枪支或大规模杀伤性武器时，警方可以在全天任何时候实施突查。
However, Parliament is not expected to take up the proposed measures before the end of January, and some lawmakers have expressed reservations about the measures because of concerns about civil liberties.
然而，预计1月底之前议会不会讨论提议的措施。因为对公民自由的担忧，一些议员表示对相关措施持保留意见。
Short of more targeted measures, the Brussels region was put on the highest possible state of alert on Nov. 21, with schools, markets and public transportation closed. The Belgian authorities stepped up the frequency and intensity of the raids, although no major new intelligence has publicly emerged from those actions.
因为缺少更具针对性的措施，布鲁塞尔地区在11月21日当天进入了当局能够实施的最高警戒状态，学校、市场和公共交通纷纷关停。比利时当局提高了突击搜查的频率和强度，不过这些行动并未带来任何可以公诸于众的重大新情报。