PARIS — The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack on Saturday against two police officers in Charleroi, Belgium, according to a statement issued on Sunday by the group’s Amaq News Agency.
巴黎——周日，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)通过自己的“阿玛克新闻社”(Amaq News Agency)发布了一则声明，宣称对比利时沙勒罗瓦市两名警察周六遇袭一事负责。
Two police officers were severely wounded in the face and neck at a security checkpoint at the entrance to a police station in Charleroi by a man wielding a machete and shouting “Allahu akbar.” The assailant was shot and died later in a hospital.
这两名警察在沙勒罗瓦警察局门前的检查站被一名挥舞着一把砍刀、高呼“真主至大”的男子砍中，面部和颈部严重受伤。行凶者随后中枪，死在一家医院里。
The statement called the assailant a “soldier of the Islamic State” who had carried out the attack “in response to calls to target citizens of countries belonging to the crusader coalition,” a reference to nations involved in the fight against the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq.
声明称，行凶者是“伊斯兰国战士”，实施此次袭击是为了“响应以十字军同盟的国民为打击目标的号召”。所谓“十字军同盟”，是指在叙利亚和伊拉克参与反伊斯兰国行动的所有国家。
The language was nearly identical to claims of responsibility issued by the Islamic State for other attacks in recent weeks, including an ax attack by an Afghan refugee in Würzburg, Germany, and the killing of a priest in the Normandy region of France.
该声明在措辞上与伊斯兰国最近宣称对其他几场袭击负责的声明如出一辙，其中包括一名阿富汗难民在德国维尔茨堡市持斧砍人案，以及一位神父在法国诺曼底地区遇袭身亡案
The Belgian federal prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Sunday that there were “indications that the attack may have been inspired by a terrorist motive” and that it had taken over the investigation from the prosecutor’s office in Charleroi.
比利时联邦检察官办公室在周日的一份声明中称，“有迹象显示，这场袭击或许是受恐怖主义动机驱使”，该办公室还表示已经接手了沙勒罗瓦市检察官办公室的调查工作。
The federal prosecutor’s office identified the attacker as a 33-year-old Algerian who had been living in Belgium since 2012. The office identified him only by the initials K. B.
联邦检察官办公室确认，袭击者是一名33岁的阿尔及利亚人，自2012年以来一直居住在比利时。警方仅确认其姓名首字母为“K.B.”。
“He is known to police for criminal facts, not for terrorism,” the statement said. It added that a bomb squad had found no weapons or explosives in a rucksack the man carried during the attack.
声明称，“警方对他有所了解是因其犯罪事实，而非恐怖主义。”声明还说，拆弹小组在这名男子行凶时携带的背包里没有发现武器和爆炸物。
Jan Jambon, the Belgian interior minister, said on Twitter on Saturday that the agency that monitors intelligence on terrorism and other threats had not changed the threat level in light of the attack.
比利时内政部长扬·让邦(Jan Jambon)周六在Twitter上表示，负责监控恐怖主义情报和其他威胁的机构并未根据此次袭击调整威胁警戒级别。
France and Belgium are still on heightened alert after a network of Islamic State militants carried out attacks in November in Paris and in March in Brussels, killing a total of 162 people.
在多名伊斯兰国武装分子于去年11月袭击了巴黎，于今年3月袭击了布鲁塞尔，总共造成162人死亡后，法国和比利时一直处于高度戒备状态。
A string of attacks this summer also stoked fears about security, including one that killed 85 people in Nice, France, on July 14, for which the Islamic State also claimed responsibility.
今年夏天的一连串袭击也引发了对安全的担忧，其中包括7月14日发生在法国尼斯，造成85人死亡的恐怖袭击。伊斯兰国同样宣称对此事负责。