As an exultant Britain awaits the birth of a royal baby, Belgium is preparing to install a new king this weekend and wondering what this means for its own less joyous bout of royal baby mania, over a birth that took place 45 years ago.
上周末，正当英国人兴高采烈地等待着王室婴儿的诞生时，比利时正准备着迎接一位新国王的登基。比利时45年前出生的一个王室婴儿，此时也掀起一场不那么愉快的热潮。比利时人并不清楚，新国王的登基对这场热潮意味着什么。
Played out in serious newspapers, gossip magazines and, for the past month, a Brussels courtroom, Belgium’s fixation with royal bloodlines revolves around Delphine Boël, a now middle-aged artist who insists she is the illegitimate daughter of Albert II, Belgium’s soon-to-be ex-king.
无论是严肃的报纸还是八卦杂志，都见证了比利时人对这起涉及王室血统的事件的关注，在过去一个月中，这起事件还闹上了布鲁塞尔的一所法院。事件的中心人物是人到中年的女艺术家，德尔菲娜·博埃尔(Delphine Boël)，她坚称自己是刚退位的比利时国王阿尔贝二世(Albert II)的私生女。
The palace has not denied this, but has not confirmed it, either, keeping behind a high wall of royal reserve. “This is a private affair, and we have no comment whatsoever,” said a palace spokesman, Bruno Neve.
比利时王室一直躲在居所的高墙之后，对这一说法既没有否认，也没有证实。王室发言人布鲁诺·尼夫(Bruno Neve)说，“这是私事，我们不发表任何评论。”
One thing, though, is certain: Ms. Boël will not be on the guest list on Sunday when Belgium’s political and social elite gather to watch Albert II, 79, sign a declaration of abdication and then his son Prince Philippe, 53, be sworn in as this tiny nation’s new monarch, its seventh since Belgium became an independent state in 1830.
不过，有一件事是肯定的：周日比利时政治和社会精英齐聚一堂之时，博埃尔不会出现在宾客名单上。周日，79岁的阿尔贝二世签署退位诏书，之后他的儿子，53岁的菲利普王子(Prince Philippe)宣誓登基，成为这个小国的新国王。比利时自1830年独立，菲利普是比利时第七任国王。
Unlike most European royalty, Belgium’s monarchy still has modest but, on occasion, critical political powers. In addition to his duties cutting ribbons and hosting banquets, Albert II played an important role in settling a political deadlock after inconclusive elections in 2010 that left Belgium without a government for more than 500 days.
不同于欧洲的大多数王室，比利时王室仍然拥有有限、但有时也很重要的政治权力。阿尔贝二世不仅肩负剪彩、主办宴会的职责，而且当2010年比利时选举未能产生明确结果，导致该国500多天处于无政府状态之时，阿尔贝二世在化解政治僵局的过程中发挥了重大作用。
Nevertheless, monarchy in Belgium has always been something of an improvised production. When the country’s founders first decided they needed a king, they shopped around Europe for a suitable candidate. Rebuffed by a member of the French royal family, which sniffed at Belgium as an inconsequential upstart, they settled on a jobless German aristocrat, Prince Leopold Georges Chrétien Frédéric of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
然而，比利时王室的产生也一直具有某种随意性。最初，比利时建国者们认为他们需要一位国王，于是便在欧洲各处寻觅合适的人选。法国王室对比利时嗤之以鼻，认为它是无关紧要的暴发户，因此在遭到法国王室一名成员的回绝之后，建国者选中了一位没有工作的德国贵族，萨克森-科堡和哥达王朝(Saxe-Coburg and Gotha)的利奥波德·乔治·克雷蒂安·弗雷德里克王子(Prince Leopold Georges Chrétien Frédéric)。
He became Leopold I and grumbled constantly about his fractious subjects, whom he derided as “unsufferable creatures.” Next came Leopold II, who did not like Belgium or its people much, either, sneering at “the little country, little people and little spirits.” He set about expanding his domain by seizing and exploiting the Congo as his personal property, an episode of wild brutality and greed that has made his name a byword for the worst excesses of colonialism.
他成为了利奥波德一世(Leopold I)d。这位国王对倔强易怒的国民们抱怨不已，讥讽他们是“令人难以忍受的生物”。接下来是利奥波德二世(Leopold II)，他也不太喜欢比利时和比利时人，嘲讽他们是“小国、小民、小心胸”。在扩大自己领地的过程中，他吞占了刚果，并把它当成个人财产来盘剥。极度的残暴和贪婪，使他的名字成为了最恶劣的殖民主义暴行的代名词。
But while not short of skeletons in and already out of their capacious family closet, members of the Belgian royalty have so far been unable to figure out what to do about Ms. Boël and her claims to be one of their own.
尽管比利时王室的丑闻相当之多，而且不少已经公之于众，但王室成员至今也没能确定该如何对待博埃尔，以及她声称自己也是王室一员的说法。
“They are paralyzed,” said Mario Daneels, a Belgian writer who first revealed in a book published in 1999 that Albert fathered an illegitimate child in 1968 with his mistress then, a Belgian aristocrat. “They don’t know what to do. You put a camera in front of a Belgian royal and they start stuttering.”
“他们都僵住了，”比利时作家马里奥·丹尼尔斯(Mario Daneels)说。在1999年出版的一本书中，他首次揭露阿尔贝与当时的情妇在1968年产下了一名私生女。这名情妇是一位比利时贵族。“他们不知道该怎么办。你把摄像机摆在一个比利时王室成员面前，他就会口吃。”
Ms. Boël, who says she is that child, has steadily escalated what began as a discreet lobbying campaign for recognition into a very public battle to break down the palace’s defenses. A professional artist, she has turned art into an irreverent weapon. A neon sculpture she created reads “Love Child,” the two words separated by a red heart topped by a yellow crown.
博埃尔说自己就是那个私生女，最开始她展开了一些并不招摇的游说活动，现在已经逐步升级成为一场非常公开的、试图打破王室防御的战斗。作为职业艺术家，她把艺术变成了一种表达不恭的武器。她创作了一件霓虹灯雕塑，上面的“Love Child”（爱、孩子）两个单词中间被一颗红心隔开，红心上方是黄色的王冠。
In a series of interviews with Belgian and French news media, Ms. Boël has insisted that she has no claim on the king’s fortune, but simply wants to heal the wounds caused by decades of rejection. “I am deeply saddened, but I believe blood can work wonders,” she was quoted as saying last month after she began a legal action to try to prove her royal lineage through DNA tests.
在接受比利时及法国新闻媒体的一系列采访时，博埃尔坚称她无意索取国王的财富，只是想治愈数十年来被人抛弃的经历所造成的创伤。上个月，博埃尔开始采取法律行动，试图通过DNA检测证明她的皇室血统。其后，媒体引述她的话说，博埃尔表示，“我深感悲哀，但我相信血液能产生奇迹。”
Complaining of canceled bank accounts and other indignities because of “the situation surrounding my existence,” Ms. Boël said in a statement, “I don’t believe that my legal action will end all discrimination against me or my family, or mend my personal relationship with my father, but with DNA proof there will be undeniable certainty about my identity.”
博埃尔抱怨称，由于“围绕我的存在而出现的状况”，她的银行账户被撤销，还受到其他羞辱，她在一份声明中表示，“我认为我的法律行动，不会终结我和我的家人承受的所有歧视，也不会改善我与父亲的个人关系，但有了DNA证据，我的身份就成了不可否认的确凿事实。”
After decades of public silence, Ms. Boël’s mother, Sybille de Selys Longchamps, told two Belgian newspapers last month that she understood and supported her daughter’s efforts to gain recognition. “I want to re-establish the truth,” she said, describing an 18-year-long affair with Albert II.
在沉寂数十年后，博埃尔的母亲西比耶·德谢利斯·隆尚(Sybille de Selys Longchamps)上个月对两家比利时报纸表示，她理解并支持女儿力图获得认可的努力。她在谈及与阿尔贝二世长达18年的恋情时说，“我想重新证明事实。”
For years the king lived apart from his wife, Paola, an Italian aristocrat who loathed Belgium’s rainy weather and chilly northern ways, and the couple came close to divorce. All the same, they had three children, including Philippe. Albert and Paola later patched up their relationship and now often appear in public together.
阿尔贝二世曾与他的妻子保拉(Paola)分居多年，这名意大利贵族讨厌比利时多雨的气候，以及北方人冷峻的处事方式，夫妇二人接近离婚状态。尽管如此，他们还是养育了三个孩子，其中包括菲利普。阿尔贝和保拉后来改善了关系，现在经常一起公开露面。
The king has not directly addressed the question of whether Delphine Boël is his daughter, though he did refer in a 1999 speech — made soon after the publication of Mr. Daneels’s book — to a 1960s “crisis” in his marriage. The oblique remark was widely interpreted as a tacit acknowledgment of extramarital liaisons.
阿尔贝国王一直没有直接回应过德尔菲娜·博埃尔是不是他的女儿这个问题。不过他在1999年，丹尼尔斯的书出版后不久发表的一次讲话中提到，他的婚姻在20世纪60年代遇到过“危机”。这种间接的表述被广泛解读为对婚外情的默认。
In an editorial last month, La Libre, a French-language newspaper partial to the monarchy, heaped praise on Albert for his “perfect reign” but added that it was now time to answer nagging questions: “Is the king the father of Delphine Boël or not? If yes, why does he wait to recognize her?”
倾向于王室的法语报纸比利时《自由报》(La Libre)上个月发表了一篇社论，对阿尔贝“完美的统治表现”大加赞扬，但补充说现在是时候回答一些纠缠不休的问题了，这篇社论写道，“阿尔贝国王是不是德尔菲娜·博埃尔的父亲？如果是，他为什么迟迟没有承认她？”
“This affair, which certain people are trying to turn into an affair of state, should be solved with love, tact and discretion. For her, for him and for the others,” the editorial said.
社论写道，“一些人试图将这一事件渲染成国家事务。但这个事件应该靠爱和智慧慎重地解决。为了她、他，以及其他人。”
The moment for a discreet settlement, however, has already passed: frustrated by repeated failed efforts to make contact with King Albert, Ms. Boël went to court in Brussels last month to try to force him and two of his official children, including Prince Philippe, to give DNA samples to try to prove paternity. Two hearings have so far been held, both behind closed doors.
但已经过了谨慎解决问题的时间。在多次与阿尔贝国王联系未果后，博埃尔灰心丧气，并于上个月来到布鲁塞尔的法院，试图强迫阿尔贝国王，及包括菲利普王子在内的两名得到正式承认的孩子提供DNA样本，以便证明父女关系。到目前为止法院已经举行了两场听证会，两次都是非公开进行的。
Ms. Boël’s lawyer, Alain de Jonge, declined to comment on the proceedings, but said that Albert’s abdication should help lift a major obstacle to her case: once he steps down, he no longer has immunity and is subject to the law like all other citizens. “He will lose his inviolability,” the lawyer said.
博埃尔的律师阿兰·德扬(Alain de Jonge)拒绝就诉讼情况发表评论，但他表示，阿尔贝的退位应该有助于消除博埃尔案件的主要障碍：他一旦退位，就不再拥有豁免权，就会像其他所有公民一样，必须服从法律。德扬说，“他就不再不可侵犯了。”