PARIS — In the six weeks since the Paris terrorist attacks, law enforcement agencies in Brussels, where most of the attackers lived or had ties, have been denounced as slow, unresponsive, disorganized and even incompetent.
巴黎——巴黎恐怖袭击的大部分袭击者都居住在布鲁塞尔或与之有所关联，因此在袭击发生后的六周里，当地执法部门受到了诸如行动缓慢、反应迟钝、组织混乱甚至是无能的谴责。
To this list of woes, another was added on Wednesday: Officials are investigating accounts of an alcohol-fueled “orgy” at a police station one night last month while Brussels, the Belgian capital, was nearly shut down over fears of a copycat terrorist attack.
这张问题名单于周三又增加了一项：官方正在就一起由酒精驱使的“聚众淫乱活动”进行调查，它于上月某晚发生于一间警察局，彼时由于担心模仿性恐怖袭击的发生，比利时首都布鲁塞尔处于几近封闭的状态。
At the time, soldiers had been sent to Brussels to help patrol the city, which was paralyzed with fear. Schools, government offices, markets and the public transit network were all closed.
当时，军队被派往布鲁塞尔，帮助这座深陷恐惧的城市进行巡防工作。学校、政府机关、市场和公共交通网络全部关停。
According to an article in La Dernière Heure, a local newspaper, the orgy occurred sometime between Nov. 21 — when the federal government’s crisis center raised the alert level for the Brussels region to 4, the highest — and Nov. 26, when the alert level was reduced to 3.
根据当地报纸《最后一小时报》(La Dernière Heure)的文章，这场聚众淫乱活动发生在11月21日到11月26日之间的某个时间，也就是从联邦政府危机处理中心将布鲁塞尔地区警报等级提升至最高级第4级开始，到警报等级降至第3级结束。
About 20 soldiers from a light infantry unit known as the Bataillon de Chasseurs Ardennais were bivouacked at a police station in Ganshoren, a neighborhood north of Molenbeek. According to the newspaper, after the police station closed for the night at 10 p.m., two policewomen were invited upstairs to the floor where the soldiers were sleeping and had sex with eight of them.
约20名士兵临时驻扎在毗邻莫伦贝克北部的汉斯霍伦一处警察局，他们来自一个被称作阿登轻步兵营(Bataillon de Chasseurs Ardennais)的轻步兵部队。据该报报道，警察局于晚上10点关闭后，两名女警察受邀上楼至士兵们就寝的楼层，并与其中八名士兵发生了性关系。
A spokeswoman for the Brussels-West police agency, one of six police departments that patrol the city, confirmed on Wednesday that it had begun an internal investigation after the article was published on Tuesday.
布鲁塞尔西区警察机构是进行城市巡防工作的六间警察部门之一，该机构一位发言人于周三确认，在该文章于周二发表后，已开始一项有关的内部调查。
The police agency is responsible for Molenbeek, the working-class neighborhood in Brussels that was home to several of the men involved in the Paris attacks, which killed 130 people.
该机构负责的莫伦贝克区是布鲁塞尔的一个工薪阶层居住区，在导致130人丧生的巴黎袭击中，有几名嫌疑人就住在那里。
The Paris attacks have cast a harsh light on the shortcomings of the Belgian authorities, who have been ridiculed for a series of missed opportunities to identify and arrest the suspects.
巴黎袭击令比利时当局的一些缺陷被毫不留情地曝露出来，他们因接连错失发现和逮捕嫌犯的机会而饱受奚落。
At least three suspects in the attacks lived in Molenbeek and were known to the authorities. Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the man accused of orchestrating the attacks, had appeared in recruiting videos for the Islamic State, but he was able to slip in and out of Belgium without being arrested.
这次袭击中有至少三名嫌犯居住在莫伦贝克，且曾被当局记录在案。阿卜杜勒-哈米德·阿巴乌德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)被指为这次袭击的策划者，他曾出现在伊斯兰国的征募视频中，但仍可以顺利进出比利时，没有遭到逮捕。
Two other suspects, Ibrahim Abdeslam and his brother Salah, were interrogated and released by the Belgian authorities after trying to travel to Syria earlier in the year. A fourth man suspected of involvement in the attacks, Bilal Hadfi, lived in Brussels, but reports earlier this year of his radicalization at school and rumors of his departure to Syria were not passed on to the police, according to school officials.
其他两名嫌犯，易卜拉欣·阿布德斯拉姆(Ibrahim Abdeslam)和他的兄弟萨拉赫(Salah)，曾在该年早些时候试图前往叙利亚，遭到比利时当局审问后释放。第四名疑牵涉这次袭击的人是比拉尔·哈德非(Bilal Hadfi)，他居住在布鲁塞尔，据校方称，今年早些时候曾将他在学校的激进行为和欲前往叙利亚的传言上报，但警方没有跟进。
After the attacks, near misses by the Belgian authorities and their French counterparts continued. Salah Abdeslam was involved in a routine traffic stop by the French police the day after the attacks, but was allowed to continue on because he had not yet been linked to them. Adding to the string of missteps, he may have managed to evade a huge manhunt because of a Belgian law banning police raids on private homes during certain hours.
袭击发生后，比利时当局和其法国同行的类似失误依然在继续。萨拉赫·阿布德斯拉姆曾在袭击发生后的第二天在一次例行交通检查中被法国警方拦下，但由于他的有关信息未传达至该地警方，他又被放行。因为比利时法律禁止警察在一定时间进入私宅进行搜查，他可能又得以躲过了一次大规模搜捕，给这一连串的失误又添了一条。
On Wednesday, police officials confirmed that an investigation into the reports of an orgy among police officers had begun.
周三，警方官员确认了就该淫乱活动的报道，并对警员展开调查。
“I cannot give more information on the internal investigation, because it is ongoing and because investigations into the Brussels police force are highly complicated,” the Brussels-West police spokeswoman said in a phone interview. “Right now, we don’t know the extent of the investigation yet. Maybe officers from other zones are implicated, and I don’t want to set off an internal fight by commenting on police officers from other zones. Internal investigations into the Brussels police are, as a rule, highly complicated and very sensitive.”
“我无法就这次内部调查提供更多信息，因为它正在进行当中，还因为针对布鲁塞尔警察机关的调查非常复杂，”这位布鲁塞尔西区警察局发言人在一次电话采访中说。“现在，我们还不知道调查的进展。也许来自其他区的警员也牵涉其中，我不想因为对其他区的警员进行评论而招致内部纠纷。一般来说，针对布鲁塞尔警方的内部调查高度复杂且非常敏感。”
The fractured nature of policing in Brussels has been a target of criticism since the Paris attacks. Brussels, while officially bilingual, is largely French-speaking. However, it is in the country’s Dutch-speaking region, which has gained wealth and clout in recent decades relative to Wallonia, the French-speaking region to the south. (There is also a tiny German-speaking minority in the southeast.)
自巴黎袭击后，布鲁塞尔警务部门的分立已成为大家批判的目标。虽然布鲁塞尔官方使用双语，但大部分还是讲法语。然而，在最近的十年里，相对于南部的法语区瓦隆尼亚，德语区已积聚了更多的财富和影响力。（在东南部还有一个极小的德语少数人群。）
Power in Belgium is delicately distributed along regional and linguistic lines, making political oversight difficult, not to mention basic intelligence-sharing.
比利时的权力是按照地区和语言精心分配的，使得政治监督困难重重，更不用说基本的情报共享了。
In addition to the six local police agencies, Brussels has a federal police service, two intelligence services — one military, one civilian — and a terrorism threat assessment unit whose chief, exhausted and demoralized, resigned over the summer but remains on the job.
除这六间警察机构外，布鲁塞尔还有一间联邦警察部门、两间情报部门——一间军方，一间民事——还有一间恐怖主义威胁评估单位，其负责人因精疲力竭、斗志消沉，已于夏天辞职，但仍在工作。
The idea of merging the six local agencies has been floated over the years, but has run into opposition among the mayors of the 19 boroughs that make up Brussels, who share police oversight powers on a rotating basis.
合并六间本地机构的建议最近几年一直在流传，但都遭到了组成布鲁塞尔的19个自治市市长的反对，他们在以轮换制共享政治监督权。
Ilse Van de Keere, the police commissioner for Brussels-Capital — the police agency that oversees the city’s core, including its central square, the Grand Place or Grote Markt — said in a phone interview that she would “absolutely not comment about anything that happened on another territory,” referring to the adjacent Brussels-West district.
布鲁塞尔首都区——其警察机构负责该市的中心区，包括中心广场、大广场或格罗特市场——警察局长伊尔泽·范·德·科尔(Ilse Van de Keere)在一次电话采访中表示，她“绝不会对其他区所发生的事情进行评论，”这里指的是毗邻的布鲁塞尔西区。
Asked about the rumors, Ms. Van de Keere said, “We all read the newspapers, just like anyone else, and are aware of this story about an orgy between police officers and army soldiers.”
被问及淫乱传闻时，伊尔泽·范·德·科尔说，“我们跟其他人一样，都读了报纸，并且知道在警员和军队士兵之间发生淫乱活动的事。”
Ms. Van de Keere said that local and federal police cooperation had been “excellent” in recent weeks, and that the reports of the orgy had not affected their work.
她表示本地和联邦警察机构的协作在最近几周“极为出色”，而关于淫乱活动的报道也没有影响到他们的工作。
“All these people have been working closely together for weeks now, often doing long hours,” she said. “We have developed a very good working relationship with the army.”
“所有人到现在已经在一起紧密合作了几周了，而且经常是长时间工作，”她说。“我们和军队一起构建了非常良好的工作关系。”
On Tuesday, the authorities in Belgium charged two men with plotting a terrorist attack in central Brussels on New Year’s Eve. They are scheduled to appear in court on Thursday morning.
周二，比利时当局指控两名男性密谋于新年前夕在布鲁塞尔中心区进行恐怖袭击。按计划他们将于周四早上出庭。