A FOUR-BEDROOM HOME IN A CONVERTED CHAPEL
待售房屋：一套位于一栋改建礼拜堂内的四卧室住宅
$1.51 MILLION (1,095,000 EUROS)
价格：151万美元（109.5万欧元，约合人民币942万元）
In the Flemish village of Bazel, nine miles southwest of the center of Antwerp and 150 yards from the moated Wissekerke Castle, a brick chapel built by local nobility in the second half of the 19th century was used to teach the bible to the children of the village.
在比利时巴泽尔市(Bazel)的佛兰芒镇(Flemish village)上，距安特卫普(Antwerp)市中心西南方向9英里（约14.5公里），与Wissekerke城堡的护城河相隔150码（约137米），有一座由当地贵族19世纪下半叶建造的砖砌礼拜堂，过去用来给镇上的孩子们上圣经课。
Almost in ruins when it was bought in 2003, the chapel was restored and converted two years later into one large and one smaller loft-style home, said Antoon Van Coillie, who owns the larger home with his wife, Natasha Coolsaet, the architect. From the pointed arch of the entry door of the larger residence, to its four huge Gothic windows on the main level, its ecclesiastical roots are distinctive.
2003年，这座礼拜堂刚被买下来的时候，几乎是一片废墟。两年后这里得到修复，并被改建成一大一小两套跃层风格的住宅，安东·凡·科耶利(Antoon Van Coillie)说，他和建筑师妻子娜塔莎(Natasha)拥有其中面积较大的一套。从这套大住宅进门处的尖顶，到主楼层的四扇巨大哥特窗户，原来的基督教堂根基依旧清晰鲜明。
The entry hall, which has the chapel’s original flagstone floor, includes a cloak room and a powder room. A staircase to one side leads to the main floor, where a doorway was built around a set of tall wooden doors salvaged from a demolished church. The 49-by-33-foot main open room has parquet floors with radiant heat and is illuminated by the Gothic windows with a living area near the fireplace and a dining space. A music area is defined by a narrower pointed arch window.
门厅还铺着礼拜堂原来的石板地面，其中包括一间更衣室和一间化妆室。门厅一侧的楼梯通往主楼层，其中，围绕一组从一座被拆除的教堂中抢救下来的高大木门，建起了一个门厅。这个49x33英尺（约15x10米）的开放式大空间，铺有带辐射供暖的拼花木地板，并通过几扇哥特式窗户采光。壁炉附近是一处起居区，还有一处进餐的地方。一扇狭窄的尖顶拱形窗划分出了一个音乐空间。
An L-shaped wall with built-in cabinetry and an oven and microwave partitions the kitchen, which has a large marble-topped center island housing a cooktop, a two-basin sink, a dishwasher and multiple drawers.
一面带有嵌壁式橱柜的L型墙壁，以及一台烤炉和微波炉隔出了一间厨房。其中有一座大理石台面的大型岛台，上面安了一个炉灶、一个双槽水池、一台洗碗机和几层抽屉。
To one end of the living room, three sets of new French doors lead to a wood-plank terrace, from which Bazel’s medieval church is visible. Two steps down at the far side of the terrace, a more secluded and sunny deck overlooks a small parklike backyard.
在这间起居室的另一端，有三组新的法式双开门，通往一处木板平台，从那里可以眺望巴泽尔市的中世纪教堂。从平台另外一端往下走两级台阶，是一处更为僻静的阳光露台，俯瞰着一座像公园一样的小后院。
On the top floor, two children’s bedrooms with floor-to-ceiling windows share a tiled hall bath with two vanities, a shower and a separate toilet. The laundry room is nearby. At the end of the hall, the master suite has a walk-in closet and an en-suite bath with large beige ceramic tiles, twin vanities, a shower and separate tub. Ceilings in the bedrooms are sloped, with a 19th-century wood beam from the original roof structure visible in the master suite.
顶楼两间带多扇落地窗的儿童卧室，共用走廊上的一间贴瓷砖的浴室，内有两个盥洗池、一间淋浴房和一间独立的卫生间。洗衣房也在附近。在走廊尽头，主卧套房有一个步入式衣橱和一间配套浴室，浴室里贴有米黄色的大块瓷砖，并有两个盥洗池、一间淋浴房及一座单独的浴缸。这几间卧室的天花板都是斜坡屋顶，主卧套房中还可见一根原屋顶构造中用的19世纪木横梁。
Under the sloped eaves, framed by wood beams and illuminated by venting Velux skylights, is a roof loft used as a fourth bedroom/den.
在这些倾斜的屋檐下，木横梁合围出一间屋顶跃层阁楼，并装有威卢克斯(Velux)通风天窗采光，被当做第四间卧室/小房间。
A staircase from the living room leads to a lower level, which was created during the renovation by lifting the original floor to the level of the Gothic window sills. The lower level includes an office and television room, a library with a fireplace and four storage rooms. A one-car garage is accessible under a brick archway to the left side of the chapel house.
起居室内还有一段楼梯通往较低的那层。翻修期间，原地面被抬高至那些哥特窗的窗台处，之后便形成了这一楼层。这层较低的空间里包括一间办公室和电视室，一间带壁炉的图书室，还有四个储物间。这栋教堂式住宅的左边有间单车位的车库，可以从砖砌的拱门进入。
Bazel, which has about 15,000 residents, is a popular weekend destination for Antwerp residents. It has a one-star Michelin restaurant, Hofke van Bazel, several other brasseries and restaurants, and an extensive park linked to the castle. Extensive flat farmland and towpaths along the Scheldt River in Flanders draw walkers and cyclists. The castle now houses an art academy and can be rented for weddings.
巴泽尔市有大约15000名居民，对安特卫普市的居民来说，这里是大受欢迎的周末休闲目的地。巴泽尔有一家一星级的米其林(Michelin)餐厅Hofke van Bazel，还有其它几家啤酒馆和餐厅，以及一大片延伸至这座城堡的公园。广袤而平坦的农田，和弗兰德斯地区(Flanders)的斯凯尔特河(Scheldt)沿岸的几条拉船道，吸引着许多步行者与骑行者。这座城堡现在容纳了一所艺术学院，还可以租来举办婚礼。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
The Belgian real estate market is “quite slow for the moment,” said Frederic Van Blerk, a managing director of Engels & Voelker Antwerp, the listing broker, partly in anticipation of elections on May 25. “For the last year we have a standstill in everything from a $100,000 apartment to a $5 million house.” Prices on half-million-dollar-plus homes in Antwerp are down about 20 percent over the last three years. “A castle that cost 10 million euros five years ago, you can have for half the price,” he said. “It is a very difficult market.”
比利时的房地产市场“目前不太景气，”该房源的经纪人、安特卫普地产公司Engels & Voelker Antwerp的总经理弗雷德里克·凡·布雷克(Frederic Van Blerk)说，他对5月25日的大选抱有些许期待，“因为去年，从10万美元（约合人民币62万元）的公寓至500万美元（约合人民币3118万元）的住宅，什么都卖不动。”过去三年，安特卫普市50多万美元（约合人民币311.8万元）的房屋，价格已经下跌了大约20%。“一栋十年前价值1000万欧元（约合人民币1亿元）的城堡，你现在用一半的价格就能买到，”他说，“这是个陷入困境的市场。”
Hilde Couturier, the managing director of Metropolitan Real Estate in Antwerp, said the inventory of homes for sale and rent is high. Banks require 30 percent down to get a mortgage. As a result “right now it takes one year or more until something is sold,” versus two to three months in better times, Ms. Couturier said.
安特卫普房地产公司Metropolitan Real Estate的总经理希尔德·库蒂里耶(Hilde Couturier)说，目前待售与待租的住房存量都很高。一些银行要求30%的首付才能得到抵押贷款。结果，“现在得花一年或更长时间才能卖出点什么，”相比之下，景气的时候只需两、三个月，库蒂里耶说。
WHO BUYS IN ANTWERP
谁在安特卫普买房
With no restrictions on foreigners, “Belgium is a paradise for people who want to buy,” Mr. Van Blerk said, but the tide of wealthy Russians who bought homes in Antwerp a few years ago has ebbed. Similarly, the Dutch, who for 20 years came to live in Belgium when taxes were more favorable, now stay in Holland or opt to buy elsewhere.
外国买家不受限制。“对于想买房的人来说，比利时是个天堂，”凡·布雷克说，但是几年前，在安特卫普买房的俄罗斯富人潮已经退却。无独有偶，那些在20年前趁税费更优惠的时候来到比利时生活的荷兰人，现在留在了荷兰，或选择在其它地方买房。
BUYING BASICS
购买条件
Nearly all buyers and sellers use a neutral public notary, said Erik Celis, a notary in Antwerp. Forty percent employ the same notary, while in 60 percent of transactions, buyers and sellers each seek their own representation. Belgian law requires an energy certificate divulging the property’s energy consumption level be delivered to the buyer.
几乎所有买家和卖家都会请一位中立的公证人，安特卫普的一名公证人埃里克·赛里斯(Erik Celis)说。有40%的人会聘用同一位公证员，而60%的交易里，买家和卖家各自寻找自己的业务代表。比利时法律还要求，给买家提供一份公示了该房产能源消耗水平的能源认证书。
WEBSITES
网站
Antwerp Tourism: visitantwerpen.be
安特卫普旅游网：visitantwerpen.be
Flanders Tourism: visitflanders.us
弗兰德斯旅游网：visitflanders.us
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
Flemish, German and French; euro (1 euro = $1.39)
佛兰芒语(Flemish)、德语和法语；欧元（1欧元=1.39美元，约合人民币8.5元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Property taxes on the chapel house are about 2000 euros a year, or $2,773. There is a 10 percent stamp duty on the transaction price, Mr. Celis said. Notary and other fees add another 2 percent. According to Barbara Rommens, the office and marketing manager of Engel & Voelkers Antwerp, the seller pays a three percent commission to the realtor on the sales price, excluding a 21 percent value added tax.
这座教堂屋的房产税大约为每年2000欧元或2773美元（约合人民币17002元）。赛里斯说，按照交易价格，会收取10%的印花税。公证与其它费用还要2%。据Engels & Voelker Antwerp公司的办公室与市场部经理芭芭拉·罗门斯(Barbara Rommens)说，卖家要根据销售价格，支付一笔3%的佣金给房产经纪人，该销售价格中除去了一笔21%的增值税。
CONTACT
联系人
Philippe Rummens, Engels & Voelkers Antwerpen; 011-32-475-582-265; engelvoelkers.com
菲利普·卢门思(Philippe Rummens)，Engels & Voelkers Antwerpen；011-32-475-582-265；engelvoelkers.com