Nearly half a billion dollars has gone missing, and nobody knows how. Some say there was outright theft. Others suspect fraud. Many blame lax controls, poor oversight and, above all, a reckless, globe-spanning, Wild West culture — a culture that everyone agrees is ripe for wholesale reform.
有近5亿美元（约合30.6亿元人民币）突然消失，没人知道事情是如何发生的。有人说，这些钱是被直接偷走的。还有人则怀疑这里存在诈骗。许多人都认为，此事应该归咎于管控过于宽松、监管不善，以及影响全球、肆无忌惮的“蛮荒西部”似的文化——所有人都同意这种文化亟需大举改革。
I’m not talking about Bitcoin. I’m talking about Citigroup, which disclosed last week that its Mexican banking unit lost $400 million in a contracting swindle involving a shaky oil services company.
我并不是在说比特币，我说的是花旗集团(Citigroup)。花旗集团上周披露，其墨西哥分行在一场合约骗局中损失了4亿美元，这场骗局涉及一个摇摇欲坠的石油服务公司。
To backers of Bitcoin, the Citigroup revelation was a convenient rhetorical weapon: Look, the digital currency’s boosters say, if one of the world’s largest and most tightly regulated financial institutions can also lose a boatload of money, why is everyone getting so bent out of shape about the $470 million collapse of Mt. Gox, once the largest Bitcoin exchange? In the last few years the conventional financial system has lurched from one new fraud to another — from Bernie Madoff to MF Global to the hacking at Target — and yet nobody suggests abandoning dollars as a means of trade. Why aren’t we just as forgiving in our approach to Bitcoin?
对于比特币支持者而言，花旗集团宣布的这则消息，可以被随手拿来作为说辞。数字货币的支持者说：看，既然世界上规模最大、管理最严格的金融机构都会损失这么多钱，曾是最大比特币交易所的Mt. Gox因为丢失了价值4.7亿美元的比特币而倒闭，大家为什么要那么愤怒？过去几年，传统金融体系因为一场又一场骗局受到重创——从伯尼·麦道夫(Bernie Madoff)到全球曼氏金融(MF Global)，再到塔吉特(Target)受到黑客攻击，但是没人觉得我们应该放弃美元这种交易工具。为什么我们不能用同样宽容的态度来看待比特币呢？
It’s a tidy argument. But the comparison between Citigroup’s loss and the fall of Mt. Gox highlights just how unusual and untamable digital currency can be. When scandal engulfs traditional financial institutions like Citigroup, there are investigations and calls for greater oversight — human oversight. Bitcoin, though, was born of mistrust of humans and their institutions. It rests on the belief that financial safety emerges from the integrity of the technology, a computer code that controls a payment system, rather than the trustworthiness of the humans who participate in it.
这个论点不无道理。但是把花旗的损失与Mt. Gox的破产相比较，只是突显出了数字货币有多么不同寻常、多么难以驾驭。当花旗集团这种传统金融机构陷入丑闻时，人们会进行调查，并呼吁加强监管——人类的监管。但是，比特币诞生的基础就是不信任人类和人类建立的制度。它的存在基于这样一个信念，即金融安全来自技术的完备，依赖那个能控制整个支付系统的计算机代码，而不是依赖作为交易参与者的人类的信誉。
To save their nascent currency, Bitcoin’s backers may be forced to alter their philosophy and embrace the same messy humans — auditors, insurers and even regulators — that the currency’s most ardent supporters have long abhorred. This raises two difficult questions: Can human oversight integrate into Bitcoin’s free-for-all ethos quickly enough to render Bitcoin safe? And, can Bitcoin be made safer without tamping down on the very openness that proponents say makes Bitcoin such a cheap, efficient and innovative financial platform? At the moment, the answers are still very much up in the air.
为了拯救他们新生的货币，比特币的支持者或许会被迫改变自己的理念，接纳那些麻烦的人类——审计师、保险公司，甚至监管机构——这些都是最坚定的比特币支持者一直憎恶的。如此一来，两个难题由此而生：人类的监管能否足够快地与比特币自由开放的理念相融合，以此保证比特币的安全性？此外，如果不牺牲比特币的开放性，能不能提升比特币的安全性——在比特币的支持者看来，正是由于这种开放性，比特币才成为了一种廉价、高效并具有创新性的金融平台？目前，这两个问题的答案仍然不得而知。
Some in the more mainstream part of the Bitcoin world — firms that have sought venture capital and are trying to appeal to ordinary investors and large businesses — say they’re up to the challenge. They are working to set up stringent technical and financial audits of trading sites, and to create insurance mechanisms so that holders of Bitcoin won’t be wiped out by catastrophic losses like the one at Mt. Gox. There are even efforts to pursue government oversight.
有些在比特币世界中处在较为主流地位的机构——一些拿到风险投资，并正试图吸引普通投资者和大型企业的公司——表示，它们能够迎接挑战。它们正在针对交易网站开展严格的技术审核和金融审计并建立保障机制，这样在像Mt. Gox这种灾难性的损失出现时，比特币持有者的钱就不会打水漂了。甚至还有人在寻求政府监管。
“We are reaching out to regulators, because we do want Bitcoin to be a regulated industry,” said Brian Armstrong, the co-founder and chief executive of Coinbase, a site that allows people to purchase, store and trade with Bitcoin and that has received investments from some of Silicon Valley’s leading venture firms. 
“我们正和监管机构取得联系，因为我们当然想让比特币成为一个规范的行业，”Coinbase联合创始人、首席执行官布莱恩·阿姆斯特朗(Brian Armstrong)说。Coinbase是一家提供比特币购买、储存和交易服务的网站，已经获得了硅谷一些顶级风投公司的投资。
The most straightforward way of improving the safety of Bitcoin is also the most obvious: running independent audits of sites. Mt. Gox, which acted as a Bitcoin exchange site as well as a “wallet” that stored people’s coins, never once offered a public accounting showing it possessed all the funds it claimed to be storing, nor showing the technical methods it was using to safeguard those funds.
提高比特币安全性的最直接方式显而易见：对这些网站进行独立的审计。Mt.Gox是一家比特币交易网站，同时也提供储存比特币的服务。该公司从未发布过公开的审计报告，来证明它拥有自己声称拥有的资金，也没有披露其用于保护这些资金的技术手段。
The site’s opacity will make investigating its loss more difficult. Theories about how Mt. Gox really lost all that money, and who has it now, have consumed Bitcoin discussion sites for much of the last week. Mt. Gox has said it was hacked over a period of years, apparently through a well-known but minor flaw in Bitcoin known as “transaction malleability.” The flaw allows hackers to alter a Bitcoin payment while it’s in progress, potentially confusing a trading site into issuing a double payment. But in the absence of an audit trail, many in the Bitcoin world have trouble believing the hacking claim. On the other hand, every other leading theory for how Mt. Gox might have lost a half-billion dollars — whether government theft or cryptographic error — has been debunked, too. It’s possible that we’ll never really know what happened to that half-billion dollars. It has simply vanished.
这家网站的不透明使得对这次损失的调查变得更加困难。上周的很多时间里，比特币论坛里到处是关于Mt. Gox所有的这些钱是怎么丢的、现在在谁的手里的种种猜测。Mt. Gox已经表示，该公司多年以来一直受到黑客的袭击，他们利用的是一个广为人知但很不起眼的漏洞，叫做“交易可变性”。这个漏洞使黑客能够在一笔正在进行的比特币支付交易中做手脚，迷惑交易网站，使其重复付款。但是，由于缺少可供审计的痕迹，比特币世界的许多人难以相信这种遭受黑客袭击的说法。另一方面，关于Mt. Gox如何损失5亿美元的其他主流的猜测——政府盗窃或者加密漏洞——也已经遭到反驳。我们可能永远不会确切地知道这5亿美元去哪了。它就这么凭空消失了。
Mr. Armstrong said that to prevent something similar from ever happening at Coinbase, the firm plans to hire independent auditors to conduct a public investigation of both its Bitcoin and dollar holdings. The site also recently published a “security audit” of its technical processes, which showed it did live up to its claim of storing most of its Bitcoin holdings in “cold storage,” meaning on machines that are not connected to the Internet.
阿姆斯特朗说，为了避免Coinbase会发生类似的事，公司打算聘请独立审计师，对公司的比特币和美元储备进行公开调查。这个网站最近还发布了一份有关其技术流程的“安全审计报告”，报告显示，该公司确实像它说的那样，把大多数比特币储备放进了“冷藏室”，也就是储存在没有连接互联网的设备里。
Then there are more far-reaching efforts to secure Bitcoin. Elliptic, a British Bitcoin storage site, offers optional insurance on your holdings. For a fee of about 2 percent of your coins per year, the site promises to repay you if theft or negligence results in the loss of your funds. Another firm, Inscrypto, is working on what it calls a “decentralized version of the F.D.I.C.,” a system similar to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which protects your checking account. The system, which is still a work in progress, is far more complex than traditional deposit insurance, using derivative trades to protect against price swings or other dangers of Bitcoin. At the moment, it’s unclear how much it will cost, or even if it will work. The company, like several others in the Bitcoin world, declined to be quoted on the topic.
此外，还有更为有力的措施来确保比特币的安全。英国的比特币存储网站Elliptic向客户提供可选择的存币保险。每年大概付出所存比特币总额的2%，网站就承诺，如果盗窃或疏忽大意导致储蓄受损，它将会予以赔偿。另有一家名为Inscrypto的公司正着手开发“去中心化的FDIC”。这一系统类似于保护客户支票账户的联邦存款保险公司(Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation)。系统仍处研发阶段，比传统的存款保险要复杂得多，采用的是衍生品交易来避免比特币的价格波动等危险。当前这个阶段，它的成本几何，乃至能否奏效，都犹未可知。与比特币行业的其他几家公司一样，Inscrypto拒绝就这一话题发表评论。
To some supporters of Bitcoin, the rise of these consumer protection ideas is itself proof of the digital currency’s superiority over old-fashioned currency. One of Bitcoin’s most cherished technical tenets is openness, the idea that anyone, anywhere, can set up a trading node on the payment network. Openness lowers barriers to entry; it allows sites with newer, safer, more innovative financial ideas to easily peddle their wares, while rickety concerns like Mt. Gox die under their own incompetence. It sets up a Darwinian race toward a safer Bitcoin.
在比特币的一些支持者看来，此类消费者保护的想法的兴起，本身就证明了这种电子货币相较传统货币的优越性。比特币最为人们推崇的技术原则之一，就是开放性，也就是任何人在任何地方都能在支付网络上设立一个交易节点。开放就意味着降低准入门槛；它让有着更新、更安全、更具创意的金融点子的网站轻易地发扬光大，而Mt. Gox这样的跌跌撞撞的问题网站则会因自身的无能而灭亡。它开辟了一种达尔文式的竞赛，终点就是更安全的比特币。
In the short run, this dynamic causes terrible consequences for users, but eventually, Bitcoin’s supporters say, the worst problems will get ironed out. One frequent analogy in the Bitcoin world is to the early days of the Internet and web. Just a decade and a half ago, the web was a rough-and-tumble network ruled by pornography and illegal file-trading, a place where fraud flourished and danger lurked around every corner. Today the web is still all that, but it is also, in its more respectable corners, the place where you post pictures of your children, where you shop for Christmas presents, where you hold secure conversations with your doctor and where companies make billions of dollars every year without worry of being defrauded.
短期看来，这种变化会给用户带来糟糕的后果，但比特币的支持者宣称，最终，那些最严重的问题将会得以解决。比特币世界常被比作互联网的初始阶段。仅仅是15年前，网络还是个混乱不堪的地方，被色情和非法传输交易所把持，到处潜伏着欺诈和危险。到了今天，网络里还是存在所有这些东西，但同时也有更体面的地方，让你张贴孩子的照片、采购圣诞礼物，或是与医生进行安全对话；让企业每年进账数十亿美元，而不必担心遭到欺诈。
“The history of Bitcoin is going to be largely the same,” Mr. Armstrong said. It starts with a “fundamental breakthrough that lowered the cost of payments, but there will be a lot of details to get right, and like on the early Internet, it will take time for the fundamental infrastructure to get established.” Once that happens, Mr. Armstrong says he believes that digital currencies will be unstoppable. Unless, of course, the thought of a half-billion dollars disappearing without a trace makes people queasy enough to stay away from Bitcoin for good.
“比特币的历史将会基本类似，”阿姆斯特朗说。它始于一项“降低支付成本的根本性突破，但还有很多细节需要完善。就像早期的互联网一样，需要时间来建立根本的基础设施。”他还表示，一旦这一进程完成，他认为电子货币就会势不可挡。当然了，前提是人们不会因为一想到5亿美元消失得无影无踪而惶惶不可终日，以致于永远逃离比特币。