The virtual currency Bitcoin has taken a sharp tumble in value since Chinese regulators moved to restrict its usage. That has created no small amount of grumbling among Chinese Bitcoin buyers, who have been some of the most enthusiastic investors in the digital money.
自中国监管机构采取行动限制使用比特币以来，这一虚拟货币的币值急剧下跌，致使中国买家满腹怨言，他们一直都居于最热心比特币投资者的行列。
“The drop in Bitcoin’s value in the last few days has been terrible, I’ve felt really uncertain,” an investor surnamed Chen told The Securities Times, a Chinese financial newspaper. Mr. Chen said he had bought five coins recently at a price of 3,100 renminbi, or about $510, apiece. On Wednesday the value dropped to three-quarters of that. “I thought I’d make a little short-term investment,” he said. “I didn’t think I’d lose money.”
比特币投资者陈先生对中国的财经报纸《证券时报》说，“前面这几天，比特币的币值跌得太猛了。我真的觉得很心慌。”陈先生说，不久之前，他以3100元人民币的价格购买了5个比特币。周三，比特币的价格降到了他买价的四分之三。他说，“本想炒个短线，没想到一买就赔钱。”
On Wednesday, BTC China, the country’s largest Bitcoin exchange, said it had been told to stop accepting deposits in Chinese currency. The announcement was the latest in a series of steps that have restricted the ability to buy and use Bitcoins in China. The country’s leading third-party payment processors were told on Monday by the central bank to stop accepting the currency, according to Chinese news reports. And on Dec. 5, the People’s Bank of China and other regulators ordered traditional financial institutions in China to stop Bitcoin transactions.
周三，中国最大的比特币交易平台比特币中国称，它奉命停止比特币人民币充值功能。官方推出了一系列限制在中国购买和使用比特币的措施，前述公告是最新的一项。中国新闻媒体报道称，周一，中国央行命令中国最大的一些第三方支付公司停止接受比特币。12月5日，中国人民银行以及其他一些监管机构命令中国的传统金融机构停止比特币交易。
Those moves have raised widespread doubts in China over the virtual currency, which saw values climb to 7,395 renminbi, or $1,218, on Dec. 1. After dropping to 2,300 renminbi late Wednesday, the price for a Bitcoin quoted by BTC China recovered slightly to around 3,000 renminbi by Thursday afternoon.
这些措施在中国引发了对这一虚拟货币的普遍怀疑，比特币的价格从12月1日的7395元人民币下跌至周三晚间的2300元。周四下午，比特币中国对比特币的报价略有回升，达到3000元人民币左右。
Chinese economists had warned investors about the risks inherent in the virtual money.
中国经济学家曾警告投资者，这一虚拟货币具有内在风险。
“When it comes to Bitcoin, early on I said that ordinary people should stay far away from it,” Yi Xianrong, an economist with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, wrote on his Tencent Weibo microblog after the central bank began making moves to restrict Bitcoin in early December. “It’s not a real currency — it doesn’t have a guarantee of creditworthiness. The risks are very high, and if ordinary people play the market they’re on their own. The central bank announcement told us what would happen with people who thought they were going to get rich quick and just got burned.”
12月初央行采取行动限制比特币之后，中国社科院经济学家易宪容在其腾讯微博账户发帖称，“对于比特币的问题，我早就告诉一般的民众远离。因为它不是货币，它没有任何信用担保。如果民众要进入这个市场炒作，风险很大而且要自己承担。央行通知就告诉了大家比特币发现了什么，一些想一夜暴富只能会把自己炒死。”
One Chinese Bitcoin investor bought 10 Bitcoins when the price was at 2,000 renminbi each after seeing friends earn good returns, The Economic Daily News reported. “After half a month or so the price climbed to 7,000. It was unexpected and I was so happy. But I didn’t sell them. I thought, even if it dropped a little, I would still be ahead,” the investor, who was identified only by the surname Xu, told the paper.
《经济日报》报道称，看到朋友赚钱之后，一名中国比特币投资者以2000元的单价买了10个比特币。这名叫做小徐的投资者告诉该报，“之后差不多半个月的时间就涨到近7000元，当时很意外也很高兴。可是并没有卖掉，心想即使再跌也有得赚。”
Some Chinese media outlets said the website of the People’s Bank of China was inaccessible for a short period on Wednesday afternoon, and said it might have been the target of a hacking attempt launched in retaliation over the moves to restrict Bitcoin use. The Beijing Times newspaper quoted a bank representative who confirmed that the website had been down but was operating normally by 6 p.m. The bank representative offered no explanation as to the cause of the temporary problem.
一些中国媒体称，周三下午有一小段时间无法打开人民银行的网站，该网站可能遭到了黑客袭击，袭击是为了报复停止使用比特币的措施。《京华时报》引用一名银行负责人的话证实该网站确曾出现打不开的情况，但到晚上6点左右已经恢复正常。该银行负责人没有说明这次短暂故障的原因。