FOR the obsessive followers of the volatile virtual currency bitcoin, the price of a single bitcoin at the time their fixation began holds undue significance. I know one bitcoin cost around $9 when I first stumbled on it in the summer of 2011. That was before I single-handedly sent the price of bitcoin soaring.
在价格波动巨大的虚拟货币比特币(bitcoin)的痴迷追随者看来，比特币在他们刚刚开始沉迷时的价格，具有非同寻常的意义。我在2011年夏天第一次听说比特币时，每枚的价钱只有9美元。当然那是在我一手把比特币的价格推高之前。
I wasn’t trying to manipulate an underground economy. I was just doing my job as a blogger for the website Gawker when I broke the story of the online underground illegal drug market Silk Road, on which bitcoin was the only accepted currency because of its relative anonymity. The article went viral and introduced hundreds of thousands to bitcoin.
我并不是想要操纵地下经济，只是在做为Gawker网站写博客的工作。当时我撰写了关于在线地下违法毒品市场“丝路”(Silk Road)的文章，那是这个市场第一次得到报道。“丝路”只接受比特币，因为它相对匿名。这篇文章受到了广泛的传播，也让成千上万人了解了比特币。
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, helped, too. During a news conference a couple of days after my article was published, he called bitcoin “an online form of money laundering.” I suppose a lot of people thought that sounded pretty cool. The price of bitcoin surged to $14.
纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)也起到了帮助作用。在我的文章发表后几天举行的一次新闻发布会上，他把比特币称为“一种在线的洗钱形式”。我猜想很多人都觉得这听起来挺酷的，比特币的价格飙升到了14美元。
Huh, I thought, maybe I should buy some bitcoin.
我当时想，可能我也该买一些比特币。
But I didn’t, and as of this writing, one bitcoin is worth around $880. Senate hearings held to discuss regulating bitcoin earlier this month were “lovefests,” according to The Washington Post. Abroad, Chinese investors are flocking. Bitcoin seems on the brink of respectability.
可惜我没买。到撰写这篇文章时为止，一枚比特币的价格大约在880美元。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)报道，本月早些时候讨论对比特币进行监管的听证会上充斥着溢美之词。而在海外，中国投资者也蜂拥而至。比特币似乎距离获得受人尊敬的地位仅有咫尺之遥。
Still, there’s a zaniness about the currency. Bitcoin is built on a weird mix of the most old-fashioned kind of speculative greed, bolstered by a contemporary utopian cyberlibertarian ideology. Boosters say that bitcoin is the currency of the future. I’d argue that the phenomenon is a digital gold rush perfectly emblematic of the present.
然而比特币仍然有一些古怪的地方。比特币的基础是一种最老派的贪婪的投机欲，而乌托邦式的当代网络自由意志主义意识形态也对它给予了推动。推崇者认为，比特币是未来的货币。可是我却认为，这种现象是一种数字淘金热，是对当今心态的完美体现。
Some of bitcoin’s appeal comes from the fact that it does not physically exist. Each bitcoin is just a string of numbers. Instead of a bank, a decentralized network of computers ensures the authenticity of bitcoin and issues new ones by doing complex calculations. This allows bitcoin to be traded peer to peer, bypassing credit card companies and payment processors. It’s digital cash, offering the same relative anonymity and freedom as a paper sack of bills. WikiLeaks began accepting bitcoin donations in 2011 in order to bypass PayPal and credit card companies, which had frozen payments to the organization.
比特币的部分吸引力源于它并没有实体的存在这一事实。每一个比特币只是一串数字。一个分散化的电脑网络确保比特币的真实性，并通过做复杂的计算发行新的比特币，而不是通过银行。这样就允许比特币进行端对端(P2P)的交易，绕开信用卡公司和支付处理公司。它是数字的现金，像纸袋里的钞票一样，同样能为人们提供相对的匿名性和自由度。维基解密(WikiLeaks)在2011年开始接受比特币捐款，目的是绕开贝宝(PayPal)和信用卡公司，它们已经冻结了对维基解密的付款。
The WikiLeaks episode hints at the utopian promise built into bitcoin by its creator, a mysterious programmer called Satoshi Nakamoto, whose identity is a subject of dispute and intrigue. The ideas behind bitcoin can be traced to a 1988 tract called the Crypto Anarchist Manifesto, which loftily predicted a future where anonymity-protecting technology made state control of the market impossible. Everything would be for sale to anyone all the time, 100 percent tax-free. Many of bitcoin’s hard-core fans see the currency as a revolutionary step toward this anarchocapitalist wonderland.
关于维基解密的情节，显示了其创造者在比特币创造伊始在其中置入的乌托邦梦想。这位创造者化名中本聪（Satoshi Nakamoto，音译），其真实身份仍然有很多争议和揣测。比特币背后的想法可以追溯到1988年的一篇题为《加密无政府主义者宣言》(Crypto Anarchist Manifesto)的文章，该文以志向高远的口吻预测了这样一种未来，保护匿名性的技术让政府无法控制市场，任何物品都可以随时销售给任何人，而且完全免税。比特币的许多死忠粉丝把这种货币当作通向那个无政府资本主义乐园的革命性一步。
I’m skeptical. I don’t think we’ll all be paying in bitcoin for tickets to Kanye West’s 2024 presidential victory tour. You can’t use bitcoin for much today besides gambling in online casinos and reserving seats on Virgin Galactic spaceflights, and a vast majority of it is held by speculators. Even with the imprimatur of government regulation, the promise of bitcoin seems to end with helping online retailers avoid credit-card processing fees. Bitcoin is mainly innovative in the way of credit default swaps: new ways to gamble with money.
我持怀疑态度。我可不认为在坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)赢得2024年总统大选后举行巡演时，可以用比特币买票。今天除了在赌博网站赌钱，或者在维珍银河(Virgin Galactic)的飞船上预定座位之外，比特币没有别的什么用处，而且现在比特币绝大多数是由投机者持有的。即使得到了政府规章的批准，比特币的希望最多也无非是帮助在线零售商免除信用卡交易费用。比特币创新的主要方式和信用违约互换(credit default swap)大体上是一样的，它是一种用钱赌博的新方式。
Bitcoin is most interesting on an emotional level. Its sheen of technomagic has let uber-rational geeks treat the casino-floor frenzy as a serious technological story. Tech blogs breathlessly track the price of bitcoin. Each new business that accepts bitcoin is heralded with the fanfare of a despot opening his country’s borders to a new, previously outlawed luxury. The drumbeat suggests that getting rich is as simple as being an early adopter.
比特币在一种情感层面上最为有趣，它具有一种技术魔幻般的光泽，这种光泽让超级理性的极客将赌博的疯狂当成了严肃的科技新闻。科技博客关注着比特币的价格，紧张地喘不上气来。每一家接受比特币的企业都会受到赞颂，仿佛是某个暴君新近打开了国门，允许过去被法律禁止的一种奢侈物品进入自己的国家。比特币的前进步伐显示出，只要早期就使用，很容易就能发财。
So many have bought in because the Internet is very good at stoking the fear of missing out. There’s even a trendy acronym, FOMO, to describe the anxiety inspired by scrolling through the social media accounts of people having more fun than you. Bitcoin fosters a particularly potent brand of FOMO. Recently there was the story of the Norwegian 20-something who discovered that his long-forgotten bitcoin, bought for basically nothing, was worth so much that he traded some of it to buy an apartment. Bitcoin holders have taken to posting screenshots of their swollen accounts. I know a guy who bought a few hundred dollars’ worth of bitcoin as a sort of joke years ago. Now he’s made enough to buy a nice car.
于是，很多人都买入了比特币，因为互联网很擅长鼓动“被别人丢在后面”(fear of missing out)的恐惧，这个短语甚至还有一个时髦的缩略语FOMO，形容的是那种在社交网络上滚动翻页时，发现别人过得比你更爽而产生的焦虑感。而比特币就催生了一类特别强劲的FOMO情绪。最近有一个新闻讲，一个20多岁的挪威小伙子过去花很便宜的价钱买到了一些比特币，过后就把这些比特币忘掉了。可是他现在发现这些比特币很值钱，于是他卖了一些，买了一间公寓。比特币持有者成群结队地发截图，炫耀自己的账户多么充实。我认识一位老兄几年前半开玩笑地买了价值几百美元的比特币，现在他赚的钱都够买一辆好车了。
All I can say is that the crash is going to be great. Bitcoin is too dependent on speculative mania to be of practical use as a currency. But as a symbol of the misguided dream that one can tap into the global data stream and download riches like a pop song, it’s gold.
我唯一能说的是，未来的崩盘将惊天动地。比特币过于依赖投机的狂热，因而无法实际当做货币使用。在那些受到误导的梦想中，人们可以利用全球数据流，像下载歌曲那样下载财富，作为这种梦想的象征，它有着非常之高的价值。