I’m glad I live in a country with people who are vigilant in defending civil liberties. But as I listen to the debate about the disclosure of two government programs designed to track suspected phone and e-mail contacts of terrorists, I do wonder if some of those who unequivocally defend this disclosure are behaving as if 9/11 never happened — that the only thing we have to fear is government intrusion in our lives, not the intrusion of those who gather in secret cells in Yemen, Afghanistan and Pakistan and plot how to topple our tallest buildings or bring down U.S. airliners with bombs planted inside underwear, tennis shoes or computer printers. 
我很高兴我能生活在一个人们警觉地捍卫公民自由的国家。然而，随着最近两项用于追踪疑似恐怖分子电话和电子邮件联系的政府计划被揭露，我倾听了因这起事件而展开的辩论，不禁觉得，那些斩钉截铁地替揭露行为辩护的人中，有一些人的说法仿佛就像9·11从来没发生过似的，仿佛我们唯一需要担心的就是政府侵犯我们的生活，完全不用担心那些在也门、阿富汗、巴基斯坦的密室里聚集的人前来进犯，密谋如何摧毁我们最高的大楼，或用藏在内衣、网球鞋或打印机里的炸弹摧毁美国的客机。
Yes, I worry about potential government abuse of privacy from a program designed to prevent another 9/11 — abuse that, so far, does not appear to have happened. But I worry even more about another 9/11. That is, I worry about something that’s already happened once — that was staggeringly costly — and that terrorists aspire to repeat.
是的，我的确担心政府可能会利用一项旨在避免9·11再次发生的计划来侵犯隐私权。到目前为止，这种侵犯似乎还没有发生。但是我更担心9·11再发生一次。也就是说，我担心的确已经发生过一次的事件会再发生，那次事件给我们造成了惊人的沉重损失，而且恐怖分子还在希望重复同样的攻击。
I worry about that even more, not because I don’t care about civil liberties, but because what I cherish most about America is our open society, and I believe that if there is one more 9/11 — or worse, an attack involving nuclear material — it could lead to the end of the open society as we know it. If there were another 9/11, I fear that 99 percent of Americans would tell their members of Congress: “Do whatever you need to do to, privacy be damned, just make sure this does not happen again.” That is what I fear most.
我之所以更担心后者，并不是因为我不在乎公民自由，而是因为在美国我最珍视的是其开放的社会，而且我相信如果再发生一次9·11——或者更糟，动用核物质的袭击——可能会使我们所认识的开放社会走向终结。如果再发生一次9·11，恐怕99%的美国人都会告诉代表他们的国会议员：“别在乎隐私权了，不管需要做什么，尽管做吧，只要保证不会再发生这种事就行了。”我最担心的是这种情况。
That is why I’ll reluctantly, very reluctantly, trade off the government using data mining to look for suspicious patterns in phone numbers called and e-mail addresses — and then have to go to a judge to get a warrant to actually look at the content under guidelines set by Congress — to prevent a day where, out of fear, we give government a license to look at anyone, any e-mail, any phone call, anywhere, anytime.
正因如此，我才勉强、十分勉强地愿意让政府利用数据挖掘，从拨打的电话号码中、电子邮件地址中寻找可疑的规律。而按照国会规定的原则，在实际查阅通讯内容时，还需要向法官申请搜查令，以此来避免有朝一日，我们出于恐惧向政府授予随时随地查阅任何电子邮件、任何电话通话的权力。
So I don’t believe that Edward Snowden, the leaker of all this secret material, is some heroic whistle-blower. No, I believe Snowden is someone who needed a whistle-blower. He needed someone to challenge him with the argument that we don’t live in a world any longer where our government can protect its citizens from real, not imagined, threats without using big data — where we still have an edge — under constant judicial review. It’s not ideal. But if one more 9/11-scale attack gets through, the cost to civil liberties will be so much greater.
所以，我不认为公布所有这些秘密材料的爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)是什么爆料的英雄。相反，我认为应当有人提醒一下斯诺登，需要有人反驳他，我们生活的这个世界，政府要想在确实存在的（并不是幻想的）袭击威胁之下保护公民，就必须在不断的司法制约下使用大数据，在这个领域我们尚有优势。这并不是理想的做法，但如果再发生一次规模像9·11一样大的袭击，对公民自由造成的损害就会大很多很多。
A hat tip to Andrew Sullivan for linking on his blog to an essay by David Simon, the creator of HBO’s “The Wire.”  For me, it cuts right to the core of the issue.
感谢安德鲁·沙利文(Andrew Sullivan)在他的博客上链接了HBO剧集《火线》(The Wire)的创作者大卫·西蒙(David Simon)的一篇文章。在我看来，此文切中了问题的核心。
“You would think that the government was listening in to the secrets of 200 million Americans from the reaction and the hyperbole being tossed about,” wrote Simon. “And you would think that rather than a legal court order, which is an inevitable consequence of legislation that we drafted and passed, something illegal had been discovered to the government’s shame. Nope. ... The only thing new here, from a legal standpoint, is the scale on which the F.B.I. and N.S.A. are apparently attempting to cull anti-terrorism leads from that data. ... I know it’s big and scary that the government wants a database of all phone calls. And it’s scary that they’re paying attention to the Internet. And it’s scary that your cellphones have GPS installed. ... The question is not should the resulting data exist. It does. ... The question is more fundamental: Is government accessing the data for the legitimate public safety needs of the society, or are they accessing it in ways that abuse individual liberties and violate personal privacy — and in a manner that is unsupervised. And to that, The Guardian and those who are wailing jeremiads about this pretend-discovery of U.S. big data collection are noticeably silent. We don’t know of any actual abuse.”
“从四面八方的反应和夸张表述来看，你可能会以为政府正在监听两亿美国人的秘密，”西蒙写道，“你或许会以为，这里揭露出了一些让政府耻辱的非法勾当。我们起草和通过法律不可避免地要求要有法庭的判令，而政府的这些做法没有得到法庭授权。不是的。……从法律角度看，这件事中唯一的新情况是，FBI和NSA试图筛选反恐线索的数据规模有多大。……我知道，政府希望建立所有通话记录的数据库，这种意图既宏大又可怕，而且政府也在关注互联网，这也很可怕。同样可怕的是你的手机上安装了GPS功能。……问题不是由此产生的数据应否存在。因为这些数据是存在的。……这里的问题更基本：是说政府获取数据的目的在于社会正当的公共安全需求，还是说政府获取数据的方式损害个人自由、侵犯个人隐私，且没有受到监管？对于这个问题，《卫报》(The Guardian)，以及因为这个发现而哀嚎的其他媒体却在显而易见地保持着沉默。这个关于美国收集的大量数据的发现其实并不新鲜。我们并不知道有哪起实际上滥用权力的情况。”
We do need to be constantly on guard for abuses. But the fact is, added Simon, that for at least the last two presidencies “this kind of data collection has been a baseline logic of an American anti-terrorism effort that is effectively asked to find the needles before they are planted into haystacks, to prevent even such modest, grass-rooted conspiracies as the Boston Marathon bombing before they occur.”
我们的确需要一直对滥用权力的行为保持警惕。但西蒙补充道，实际上在过去两个总统任期内，“这种收集数据的做法是美国反恐努力的基本逻辑，而反恐部门实际上被要求完成的任务是，在针插进干草垛里之前，就把针找到；在类似波士顿马拉松爆炸案这种规模有限的草根阴谋实施之前，就将其阻止。”
To be sure, secret programs, like the virtually unregulated drone attacks, can lead to real excesses that have to be checked. But here is what is also real, Simon concluded:
可以肯定，秘密计划可能会导致滥用权力，因而必须受到制约，比如几乎不受管控的无人机袭击。但是西蒙总结道，下面这种情况同样也是成立的：
“Those planes really did hit those buildings. And that bomb did indeed blow up at the finish line of the Boston Marathon. And we really are in a continuing, low-intensity, high-risk conflict with a diffuse, committed and ideologically motivated enemy. And, for a moment, just imagine how much bloviating would be wafting across our political spectrum if, in the wake of an incident of domestic terrorism, an American president and his administration had failed to take full advantage of the existing telephonic data to do what is possible to find those needles in the haystacks.”
“飞机的确撞了大楼，炸弹也的确在波士顿马拉松的终点线那里爆炸了。我们真的处在一场持久、低强度、高风险的冲突当中，对手是分散、立场坚定、有意识形态动机的敌人。现在姑且想象一下，如果发生了国内恐怖袭击事件，而美国总统和他的政府未能全面利用现有的电话数据，尽其所能在干草垛里找到藏着的针，持各个政治立场的人会表达多少抨击。”
And, I’d add, not just bloviating. Imagine how many real restrictions to our beautiful open society we would tolerate if there were another attack on the scale of 9/11. Pardon me if I blow that whistle.
我要补充的是，不只是抨击那么简单。想象一下，如果再发生一次9·11规模的袭击，我们会容忍在美好的开放社会上，再施加多少实实在在的限制？请别怪我说得严重。