THE actor James Franco at U.C.L.A. John M. McHugh, the former Army secretary, at the State University of New York at Oswego. The commentator Ben Stein at the University of Vermont. All are notable figures who were invited to participate in college graduations in recent years, only to withdraw or be disinvited in the face of campus protests.
演员詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)与加州大学洛杉矶分校(U.C.L.A.)， 前陆军部长约翰·M·麦克休(John M. McHugh)与纽约州立大学(State University of New York)奥斯威戈分校，评论家本·斯坦(Ben Stein)与佛蒙特大学(University of Vermont)。这些知名人士近年来受邀出席这些高校的毕业典礼，但是由于遭到学生的抗议，他们要么自己中途放弃，要么被学校放了鸽子。
Commencement season has arrived, and with it a perennial debate over free speech on campus. So far this year, students on at least 10 campuses have protested speakers invited to commencement events. Robert B. Zoellick, the former president of the World Bank, withdrew last month as a commencement speaker at Swarthmore College — his alma mater — after students mounted a campaign on Facebook calling him an “architect of the Iraq war” and a “war criminal” because of his support of the 2003 invasion. Benjamin Carson, a renowned neurosurgeon and conservative icon, dropped out as a commencement speaker last month at Johns Hopkins University after students protested comments he’d made lumping together homosexuality, pedophilia and bestiality.
毕业季节已经来临，一场重新燃起的、关于校园言论自由的争论也随之而来。今年到目前为止，已经有至少10所高校的学生对受邀参加毕业典礼的演讲者表达了抗议。罗伯特·B·佐立克(Robert B. Zoellick)是世界银行前总裁，曾支持过2003年对伊拉克的入侵，上个月，佐立克放弃了在母校斯沃斯莫尔学院(Swarthmore College)毕业典礼上发表演讲的机会，因为学生们在Facebook上发起抗议活动，称他是“伊拉克战争的建筑师”和“战争罪犯”。本杰明·卡森(Benjamin Carson)是著名神经外科医师和保守派人士，曾把同性恋、恋童癖和兽交相提并论，在学生们进行抗议后，卡森担任约翰斯·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)毕业典礼演讲者一事也在上个月半途而废。
Earlier this month, President Obama was the subject of a controversy at Morehouse College, where he is slated to give this year’s commencement speech. Morehouse also invited a Philadelphia pastor, the Rev. Kevin Johnson, to speak the day before Mr. Obama. But after the minister wrote a column in The Philadelphia Tribune criticizing Mr. Obama for failing to appoint African-Americans to cabinet positions, the university told Mr. Johnson — in a move that alumni later criticized — that they wanted to provide a broad spectrum of views so he would not be the sole speaker at that event. Mr. Johnson publicly withdrew as a speaker.
本月早些时候，奥巴马总统(President Obama)成为了莫尔豪斯学院(Morehouse College)引起的风波中的焦点人物。该校提名奥巴马为今年毕业典礼的演讲嘉宾，同时还邀请费城的凯文·约翰逊(Kevin Johnson)牧师在毕业典礼前一天的活动上发表演讲。但是，当约翰逊牧师在《费城论坛报》(The Philadelphia Tribune)的专栏上发表文章，批评奥巴马没有委派非裔美国人担任内阁职位后，莫尔豪斯大学告诉约翰逊——此举后来遭到校友们的批评——他们希望展示多种不同的观点，所以他不会是那个活动中惟一的演讲者。于是约翰逊公开表示放弃在该活动中发表演讲。
Even though most free-speech advocacy groups do not compile data on such protests, “It does appear that ‘disinvitation season’ incidents have accelerated in recent years, with this year inspiring an uptick of these episodes,” said Greg Lukianoff, president of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education.
虽然大多数拥护言论自由的团体都没有整理过这类抗议的数据，但是据个人教育权基金会(Foundation for Individual Rights in Education)主席格雷格·卢卡诺夫(Greg Lukianoff)说，“近年来，‘取消邀请’事件的数量似乎在加速增长，今年更是攀升到了一个高峰。”
In the era of Facebook and flash mobs, university administrators appear to be more skittish, knowing how quickly ideas — be they good, bad or just plain unruly — can go viral.
在Facebook和快闪族流行的时代，高校管理者似乎更加紧张，因为他们知道想法——无论是好想法，坏想法，还是纯粹的胡思乱想——像病毒那样传播开来的速度有多快。
“It’s difficult for an institution to identify speakers who don’t raise the ire of some group but can still provide a thought-provoking commencement speech,” said Rae Goldsmith, a vice president at the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, an educational association. Some commentators regard student protests against invited speakers as another indicator of the divisiveness of American culture and part of a larger trend of politically correct “orthodoxies” on campuses. Universities are meant to be bastions of open-mindedness and free speech, they say, but are more prone to censoring disagreeable ideas or drowning them out — a practice some have labeled “the heckler’s veto.”
“学校很难辨认出哪些演讲者既不会激怒一些群体，又能发表令人深省的演讲，”教育组织“教育促进及支援协会”(Council for Advancement and Support of Education)的副主席雷·戈德史密斯(Rae Goldsmith)说。一些评论家认为，学生抗议受邀演讲者是美国文化分裂状况的又一体现，也是校园里政治正确的“正统”趋势的一个组成部分。他们表示，大学本来应该是开放心态和自由言论的堡垒，但是它们却更喜欢审查不“和谐”的思想，或是淹没这些声音——这种作法被称作“起哄者否决”(the heckler’s veto)。
“By giving in to protesters, colleges are denying the majority of students their right to hear controversial opinions and drawing their own conclusions about those opinions,” said Bob Beckel, a Democratic strategist and commentator, in a recent USA Today online debate.
“高校对抗议者让步，意味着它拒绝给予大多数学生听到有争议的想法并得出自己结论的权利，”民主党策略师、评论家鲍勃·贝卡尔(Bob Beckel)最近在《今日美国》(USA Today)的网上辩论中说。
But other free-speech advocates contend that these protests actually represent an increase in free speech and that students should be able to influence campus decisions. The aim of such protests, these advocates say, is not usually to prevent controversial speakers from presenting their ideas but to encourage them to take the microphone at a time other than commencement day.
但是，另外一些支持言论自由的人认为，这些抗议活动实际上体现了言论自由程度的提高，而且学生理应能对学校的决定产生影响。这类支持者认为，这些抗议活动的目的往往不是阻止有争议的演讲者发表自己的观点，而是鼓励他们在毕业典礼之外的场合拿起麦克风。
“This isn’t about tolerance or intolerance,” Mark Schwartz, a Swarthmore alumnus, told the campus newspaper about the successful protests against Mr. Zoellick’s appearance on campus, where he was to receive an honorary degree. “It’s about whether or not you honor somebody within the highest ideals of Swarthmore’s Quaker tradition.”
“这不是宽容不宽容的问题，”在谈到成功抗议佐利克来学校演讲并接受名誉学位一事时，斯沃斯莫尔的校友马克·施瓦茨(Mark Schwartz)告诉校报说：“这是用斯沃斯莫尔学院贵格会(Quaker)传统的最高理想来看，你是否要向某人致以敬意的问题。”
The protests take various forms. In 2002, Syracuse students held up their wallets during the commencement speech by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City. The wallets were meant to recall Amadou Diallo, an unarmed West African immigrant who was shot 41 times by policemen in 1999 after he reached for his identification. The conservative commentator Ann Coulter canceled an appearance at the University of Ottawa in 2010 after about 2,000 students, angered by her comments about Muslims, crowded the entrance to the hall at which she was scheduled to speak.
抗议的形式有很多种。2002年，雪城大学(Syracuse)的学生们在前纽约市市长鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)发表毕业典礼演讲时，纷纷举起自己的钱包，以示不忘阿马杜·迪亚洛(Amadou Diallo)的遭遇。1999年，手无寸铁的西非移民阿马杜·迪亚洛伸手去拿自己的身份证时，警察朝他连开了41枪。在2010年，保守派评论家安·库尔特(Ann Coulter)取消了渥太华大学(University of Ottawa)之行，因为大约2000名学生被她关于穆斯林的评论所激怒，堵在她原定发表演讲的大厅入口处。
Some schools have tried to insulate themselves by avoiding civic leaders and politicians, and turning instead to pop culture icons like Kermit the Frog, Dolly Parton and Stephen Colbert for commencement addresses. (But even this does not always work: Mr. Franco’s invitation from U.C.L.A. was protested for its lack of gravitas.)
为了免遭抗议，一些学校有意避开公众领袖和政治家，转而邀请像青蛙先生柯密特(Kermit the Frog)、多莉·帕顿(Dolly Parton)和斯蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)这样的流行文化名人担任毕业典礼演讲者。（但是这也并非万无一失：加州大学洛杉矶分校邀请弗兰科发表演讲就遭到了抗议，理由是有失体面。）
Other universities have reserved the guest speakership for campus figures, like popular professors or university chancellors. According to the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, more than 70 universities have tried to corral protesters into “free speech zones” — designated places where rallies are permitted but are often removed from main events or in fenced-off areas.
还有一些高校把演讲嘉宾的位置留给了圈内人士，比如受人欢迎的教授或大学校长。个人教育权基金会表示，已经有70多所大学试图把抗议者赶到“自由言论区”去——抗议者可以在这个指定的地方集会，但它往往离重大活动的现场有一段距离，或是周围安装有围栏。
Still, the protests show no signs of ebbing. Cuts to education and welfare spending by Gov. Tom Corbett of Pennsylvania spurred an online campaign against his scheduled commencement appearance at Millersville University in central Pennsylvania. And in April, Skidmore College students stormed a faculty meeting to protest an invitation to Cynthia Carroll, the former chief executive of the mining company Anglo American, citing her company’s environmental and human rights record.
不过，校园抗议活动没有出现减退的迹象。宾夕法尼亚州州长汤姆·科比特(Tom Corbett)由于削减教育和福利支出，他原定出席宾州中部米勒斯维尔大学(Millersville University)毕业典礼的计划，遭到了一个网上活动的抗议。今年4月，斯基德莫尔学院(Skidmore College)的学生们冲到教务会议的现场，抗议学校邀请矿业公司英美资源集团(Anglo American)前首席执行官辛西娅·卡罗尔(Cynthia Carroll)担任毕业典礼演讲者，理由是她的公司有破坏环境和侵犯人权的前科。
“It’s my commencement,” one student told faculty members. “Not hers. Not yours.”
“这是我的毕业典礼，”一名学生告诉教员说：“不是她的毕业典礼，也不是你的。”