To a medley of whoops, hollers and gasps on Monday night, Pablo Picasso’s 1955 painting “Les Femmes d’Alger (Version ‘O’)” sold for $179.4 million including fees at Christie’s “Looking Forward to the Past” sale of artworks spanning the 20th century. The price was the highest on record for a work of art sold at auction, the company said, and was well over its estimate of $140 million.
周一晚上，在一片叹息、惊呼和喘息声中，巴勃罗·毕加索(Pablo Picasso)1955年的油画《阿尔及尔女人（O版）》(Les Femmes d’Alger [Version ‘O’])以1.794亿美元（含佣金）的价格在佳士得拍卖行(Christie’s)的“期待往昔”拍卖会(Looking Forward to the Past)上售出。这次拍卖会所拍的艺术品横跨整个20世纪。佳士得称，毕加索的这幅作品拍出了艺术品拍卖史上的最高价，远远高于1.4亿美元的预估价。
Once the bidding reached $120 million, the Picasso was pursued by five clients on telephones, often in agonizingly slow, $1 million increments, before finally being sold to a buyer represented by Brett Gorvy, Christie’s international head of contemporary art. The previous all-time auction high, also at Christie’s, had been the $142.4 million paid by Elaine Wynn, co-founder of the Wynn casino empire, for Francis Bacon’s “Three Studies of Lucian Freud” in November 2013.
出价达到1.2亿美元后，五位客户通过电话争夺毕加索的这件作品，过程极为缓慢，通常是每次加价100万美元。最终，这件作品被佳士得当代艺术部的国际负责人布雷特·格文(Brett Gorvy)代理的客户买下。之前的最高价也是出现在佳士得的拍卖会上——2013年11月，永利赌博集团(Wynn)的联合创始人伊莱恩·温(Elaine Wynn)以1.424亿美元买下弗朗西斯·培根(Francis Bacon)的《卢西恩·弗罗伊德肖像画习作三联画》(Three Studies of Lucian Freud)。
“It’s incredibly difficult to find big, A-plus-quality Picassos fresh to the market,” said the Paris-based dealer Thomas Bompard. “It’s a price for a unique thing. You can’t replace a painting like that.” Less than 30 minutes after the Picasso sale, Alberto Giacometti’s gaunt bronze sculpture, “L’homme au doigt (Pointing Man)” sold for $126 million, or $141.3 million with fees, an auction high for any sculpture.
“这样新出现在市场上的顶级大幅毕加索画作很难寻觅，”巴黎交易商托马斯·邦帕尔(Thomas Bompard)说，“只有这件独特的作品能卖出这样的价格。它无可替代。”毕加索油画售出后不到半小时，阿尔贝托·贾科梅蒂(Alberto Giacometti)枯瘦的青铜雕像《指示者》(Pointing Man)以1.26亿美元（加上佣金是1.413亿美元）的价格售出，成为史上拍卖价格最高的雕塑。
It was the first time that two works estimated at over $120 million each were for sale at the same auction.
两件估价均超过1.2亿美元的作品在同一场拍卖会上拍卖，这是前所未有的。
Picasso’s “Les Femmes d’Alger (Version ‘O’)” is the most opulent and imposing of a series of paintings that the Spanish-born artist produced from 1954 to 1955 in response to Eugène Delacroix’s 1834 Orientalist masterpiece, “Women of Algiers.” It had last been on the market in November 1997, when it sold for $31.9 million at a Christie’s auction of works owned by the American collectors, Victor and Sally Ganz. It was bought at that auction by a Saudi collector and kept in a house in London, said two dealers with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be named because of concerns over confidentiality. Monday night’s seller, who was not identified, had been guaranteed a minimum price by Christie’s, which estimated the work would fetch about $140 million.
1954年至1955年，西班牙艺术家毕加索以欧仁·德拉克鲁瓦(Eugène Delacroix)1834年的东方主义杰作《阿尔及尔女人》(Women of Algiers)为灵感，创作了《阿尔及尔女人》系列作品，其中的O版尤为富丽堂皇，引人注目。这件作品上次出现在市面上是在1997年11月佳士得为美国收藏家维克多和萨莉·甘兹(Victor and Sally Ganz)举办的专场拍卖会上。当时它以3190万美元的价格被买走。了解当年情况的两位交易商说，买家是一位沙特收藏家，作品被存放在伦敦的一所住宅里。为保密起见，这两位交易商拒绝透露姓名。周一晚上的卖家身份不明，佳士得给此人担保了最低价，这件作品的估价约为1.4亿美元。
The Swiss-born sculptor Giacometti is renowned for his hauntingly emaciated figures made in postwar Paris when Europe was in the grip of Existentialist angst. He became one of the art market’s ultimate trophy names in February 2010 after the billionaire Lily Safra paid 65 million pounds (then $103.4 million) for the 1961 bronze, “Walking Man I,” at a Sotheby’s auction in London.“Pointing Man,” an earlier, hand-painted bronze from 1947-51, is regarded by many as more compelling. Made in an edition of six, plus an artist’s proof, it had been acquired from the Sidney Janis Gallery in New York in 1970. Christie’s anonymous seller has been identified as the New York real estate magnate Sheldon Solow, according to artinfo.com. The Giacometti had been estimated to sell for $130 million and did not carry any financial guarantees. A less obviously commercial lot than the Picasso, it attracted just two telephone bidders.
瑞士雕塑家贾科梅蒂以创作令人难忘的枯瘦人物雕塑闻名，那些作品是他于“二战”后在巴黎创作的，当时欧洲弥漫着存在主义的忧虑。2010年2月，亿万富翁莉莉·萨夫拉(Lily Safra)在伦敦的苏富比(Sotheby’s)拍卖会上以6500万英镑（当时约合1.034亿美元）买下贾科梅蒂1961年创作的青铜雕塑《行走的人 I》(Walking Man I)，贾科梅蒂从此成为艺术市场上最有分量的名字之一。手绘上色青铜雕塑《指示者》是他更早的作品，创作于1947年至1951年，很多人认为它更为扣人心弦。它是一系列六件套作品之一，1970年，纽约的西德尼·亚尼斯画廊(Sidney Janis Gallery)购得这件作品及这位艺术家的证明书。这次拍卖的卖家身份不明，artinfo.com网站称，卖家是纽约地产大亨谢尔登·索洛(Sheldon Solow)。这件作品的估价为1.3亿美元，没有任何经济担保。它的商业吸引力明显小于毕加索的那件作品，只吸引到两位电话出价者。
“Looking Forward to the Past” was the creation of Loic Gouzer, Christie’s contemporary specialist, whose auction of 35 works by on-trend contemporary artists — called “If I Live I’ll See You Tuesday” — raised $134.6 million for the auction house last May. This time, Mr. Gouzer and his fellow specialists at Christie’s aimed to combine high-value, early-20th-century works including Picasso, Giacometti and Monet, which would normally headline an Impressionist and modern sale, with desirable contemporary pieces by artists such as Andy Warhol, Jean-Michel Basquiat and Peter Doig.
“期待往昔”拍卖会的组织者是佳士得当代艺术专家卢瓦克·古泽(Loic Gouzer)。去年5月，他组织了“假如我活着，那就周二见”(If I Live I’ll See You Tuesday)拍卖会。那次拍卖会汇集当代热门艺术家的35件作品，共拍出1.346亿美元。这次，古泽和佳士得的其他专家们把20世纪初的高价作品与受欢迎的当代艺术作品结合起来，前者包括毕加索、贾科梅蒂和莫奈(Monet)等人的印象派和现代作品；后者包括安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)、让-米歇尔·巴斯奎特(Jean-Michel Basquiat)和彼得·多伊格(Peter Doig)等人的作品。
“This kind of cross-pollination is an effective way of getting collectors to buy in different areas,” said David Nisenson, a private dealer. “There’s a great demand for masterpieces, and there are a lot of wealthy new buyers who want to park their money.”
“这种混搭是让收藏家们购买不同领域作品的有效方式，”私人交易商大卫·尼森逊(David Nisenson)说，“人们对杰作的需求很大，很多富有的新买家们想出手。”
The 35-lot auction raised $705.9 million against an estimate of about $500 million with just one lot unsold. A high success rate had been ensured by 18 of the works being given pre-auction guarantees financed either by third parties or by Christie’s itself. Five lots, with a total lower estimate value of more than $200 million, were guaranteed by the auction house.
这次拍卖会共汇集了35件作品，最终的拍卖总价为7.059亿美元（之前预估的总价在5亿美元左右），只有一件作品流拍。之所以有这样高的成功率，是因为其中18件作品在拍卖前得到第三方或佳士得的经济担保。其中五件作品得到佳士得的担保，它们的总预估价最低为两亿多美元。
Generous guarantees from Christie’s, which is privately owned by the French luxury goods magnate François Pinault, and the chance to sell to ultra-wealthy collectors of both Impressionist and contemporary art, produced a concentration of the sort of works that billionaires seemed to want to buy.
佳士得为法国奢侈品大亨弗朗索瓦·皮诺(François Pinault)私人所有。该拍卖行为拍品提供了慷慨的担保，此外，拍品很有可能被超级富有的印象派和当代艺术收藏家买下，这些原因导致许多受亿万富翁青睐的作品集中出现。
“Prices have reached such high levels, and this has encouraged better things to appear on the market,” said the London art adviser Wendy Goldsmith, a former head of 19th-century European art at Christie’s. “The sellers are swayed by the figures. They want to strike while the iron’s hot. They know that nothing lasts forever.”
“价格水平如此之高，促使市场上出现了更好的作品，”伦敦艺术顾问温迪·戈德史密斯(Wendy Goldsmith)说。她曾担任佳士得的19世纪欧洲艺术部负责人。“卖家们被价格打动了。他们想趁热打铁。他们知道行情不会永远这么好。”
With such a high proportion of the works guaranteed at substantial levels, competition in the room was muted, with most of the bidding coming from telephones. Among the handful of works bought in the room, the 1924 Max Ernst painting “Le Couple (L’Accolade)” was bought by the New York dealer David Zwirner for $9.1 million, just above the high estimate.
很多作品得到了高额担保，所以拍卖会现场的竞争是无声的，大部分出价通过电话进行。只有少数几件作品是在现场拍下，包括马克斯·恩斯特(Max Ernst)1924年的油画《夫妻》(Le Couple[L’Accolade])，它被纽约交易商大卫·茨维尔纳(David Zwirner)以910万美元买走，略高于预估价。
But the evening was dominated by telephone bidding, with Picasso’s 1938 portrait of Dora Maar, “Buste de femme (Femme á la résille),” entered by the casino magnate Steve Wynn, reaching $67.4 million, above estimate, and the 1958 Mark Rothko abstract, “No. 36 (Black Stripe),” selling for $40.5 million. Both were bought by Christie’s staff-members based in Asia. (Final prices include the buyer’s premium: 25 percent of the first $100,000; 20 percent of the next $100,000 to $2 million; and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
不过，电话出价主导了当晚的拍卖。毕加索1938年为多拉·马尔(Dora Maar)创作的肖像画《女人半身像（戴发网的女人）》(Buste de femme [Femme á la résille])卖出了6740万美元（高于预估价），卖家是赌博集团大亨史蒂夫·温(Steve Wynn)；马克·罗思科(Mark Rothko)1958年的抽象画《第36号作品（黑条）》(No. 36 [Black Stripe])卖出了4050万美元。这两件作品都被佳士得的亚洲工作人员购得（最终价格包括买家的佣金：前10万美元的佣金比例为25%；10万至200万美元的比例为20%；其余部分的比例为12%。估价不含佣金）。
Among the works by living artists, Cady Noland’s 1989 silhouette-shaped screen print of the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald, “Bluewald,” sold to a client of Mr. Gorvy for $9.8 million, an auction high for the artist.
在世艺术家的作品中，卡迪·诺兰(Cady Noland)1989年描绘谋杀犯李·哈维·奥斯瓦尔德(Lee Harvey Oswald)侧影的丝网印画《蓝色瓦尔德》(Bluewald)以980万美元的价格卖给了格文代理的一位客户。它是诺兰作品迄今拍出的最高价格。
So what, if anything, does the success of this sale mean? Despite the departure of its former chief executive, Stephen Murphy, and concerns about guarantees inflating auction prices, Christie’s is still using its financial muscle to attract the world’s most valuable artworks into its sales. And the world’s wealthiest 0.1 percent is paying ever-higher prices to own them.
那么，这次拍卖会的成功意味着什么？尽管佳士得的前首席执行官斯蒂芬·墨菲(Stephen Murphy)辞职，尽管人们担心保证金会抬高拍卖价格，佳士得仍在利用自己的财力吸引世界上最有价值的一些艺术品，世界上0.1%的极富人士在以前所未有的高价争夺它们。
“After Murphy left people thought there would be fewer guarantees, but it’s more of the same,” said Guy Jennings, the managing director of the Fine Art Fund in London. “Christie’s is using high finance to squeeze the opposition out.”
“墨菲离开后，人们以为担保会减少，实际上没有什么改变，”伦敦美术基金(Fine Art Fund)的总经理盖伊·詹宁斯(Guy Jennings)说，“佳士得在利用巨额融资挤压对手。”