The French government dismissed the embattled president of the Musée Picasso on Tuesday amid an employee revolt and a bitter debate over delays in reopening the museum, which has been closed for renovation for almost five years.
伴随着雇员发起的抗议，以及重新开馆日期推迟引发的激烈争吵，法国政府于周二将饱受指责的毕加索博物馆(Musée Picasso)馆长解职。该馆已经因翻新修缮闭馆将近五年。
The museum, in a 17th-century building in the Marais district of Paris, will double in size to hold the world’s largest collection of works by Picasso. The reopening was first scheduled for last October, and then postponed to June. This month it was delayed again, until at least September.
博物馆位于巴黎马莱区一座17世纪建筑内，翻新后规模将扩大一倍，以便容纳全世界最大的毕加索作品收藏。重新开馆的日期本定于去年10月，后来推迟至今年6月。本月再次推迟，最早9月才能开馆。
Even that date may be optimistic, however, since the museum does not have contracts for security or the staff of a new restaurant.
然而即便这个日期也是个乐观的估计，因为博物馆没有和保安以及一个新餐厅的员工签下合同。
The president, Anne Baldassari, who has led the restoration project for almost all of her tenure as president, appeared at the Culture Ministry on Tuesday. She was offered but declined an alternate position at the museum, one that would put her in charge of the display of paintings, according to a ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak by the French government.
自上任以来几乎一直在主持修缮工作的馆长安娜·巴尔德萨里(Anne Baldassari)于周二在文化部露面。据文化部官员称，他们提出给她在馆内安排其他职务，负责画作展示，但被她拒绝。这位官员因未获法国政府的置评授权，要求在本文中匿名。
In a scathing statement issued after the meeting, the ministry said that Ms. Baldassari had been  dismissed because of a “gravely deteriorating work environment.” It cited a management review in March by an inspector general who recommended an overhaul because of “profound suffering in the workplace and a toxic atmosphere” that had provoked a series of resignations by high-ranking officials who were vital to the museum’s reopening. 
在会面后发布的一则言辞尖锐的声明中，文化部称，巴尔德萨里被解职是因为“工作环境严重恶化”。声明援引一位督察员在今年3月给出的管理评估，由于“工作场所令人极度痛苦，缺乏良性氛围，”，导致一些对博物馆重开至关重要的高层管理者辞职，那位督察员建议博物馆进行全面整改。
Her dismissal by the culture minister, Aurélie Filippetti, was the latest chapter in a struggle that had been going on for nearly two years at the Picasso museum. Under Ms. Baldassari’s leadership, two executive directors have departed, one after less than a year. A few months ago, the director of the museum’s reconstruction also quit.
毕加索博物馆的这场争斗已经持续将近两年，巴尔德萨里被文化部长欧海莉·菲利佩蒂(Aurélie Filippetti)解职是此事的最新进展。在巴尔德萨里的领导下，两名执行总监离职，其中一人是在她上任不到一年后。几个月前，负责博物馆修缮工程的总监也辞职了。
Ms. Baldassari, 59, is a Picasso scholar who rose through the ranks over two decades to become president of the museum. Her supporters have praised her for helping to secure financing for most of the project during a severe recession by sending works from the collection on tours to museums from San Francisco to Sydney, Australia.
现年59岁的巴尔德萨里是一位毕加索研究学者，经过20年的升迁才成为博物馆馆长。她的支持者称赞她在为项目筹款方面功不可没，在经济严重衰退的情况下，通过将馆藏作品送往旧金山、悉尼等地博物馆巡展，获得了项目所需的大部分资金。
The ministry appointed a seasoned civil servant, Jérôme Bouët, as temporary president. Ms. Baldassari could not be reached for comment on Tuesday.
文化部已经任命资深文官杰霍姆·布埃(Jérôme Bouët)为临时馆长。本报周二未能联系到巴尔德萨里就此事置评。
The museum first opened in 1985 in the former Hôtel Salé. The expansion project, whose budget doubled to almost $70 million, was supposed to be completed in two years when it began in 2009. But as it grew in scope and size, reopening dates were announced and delayed several times. More recently, the Marais neighborhood has been in an uproar over some museum construction that took place without permits.
1985年，博物馆在前萨里酒店(Hôtel Salé)首次开放。2009年开工的扩建工程原计划应该在两年内完工，预算在翻倍后达到将近7000万美元。随着范围和规模的扩大，重新开馆的时间被一再推迟。近来一些未经许可的工程已经令马莱区周边居民怨声载道。
The pressure on Ms. Baldassari intensified this year after she scheduled previews and pledged that the museum would reopen by June. When the minister of culture changed the opening date to September — so that work could be completed under optimal conditions — Claude Picasso, the artist’s son and a member of the museum board, publicly criticized the ministry for dishonoring his father with the delays. Mr. Picasso also insisted that the internal strife was exaggerated.
在定下了开馆预展的日期，并承诺于6月重新开馆后，巴尔德萨里在今年面临着更大的压力。后来文化部将开馆日期改到9月——以便让博物馆以最佳状态示人——但艺术家的儿子、博物馆董事克劳德·毕加索(Claude Picasso)公开批评了文化部的决定，称这种延期是对他父亲的侮辱。他还坚称博物馆的内部纷争被夸大了。
On Tuesday Christine Pinault, a spokeswoman for Mr. Picasso, said that he continued to defend Ms. Baldassari, insisting that only the president of France, François Hollande, has the right to remove her, though a ministry official said that he would sign off on the dismissal. Ms. Pinault added that pushing out the museum’s leader “cannot solve the museum’s problems magically, like waving a wand.”
克劳德·毕加索的女发言人克丽丝汀·皮诺(Christine Pinault)在周二说，他至今仍支持巴尔德萨里，并主张只有法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)才有权撤她的职，不过文化部一位官员说奥朗德会批准这项解职决定。皮诺还说，将博物馆领导人赶走“并不能奇迹般地解决博物馆的问题，这又不是挥一挥魔法棒。”
Mr. Picasso’s earlier comments about personnel galvanized more than half the museum’s current staff of 45 people to issue a statement over the weekend in which they described a management style marked by favoritism, conflict, mercurial decision making and a lack of communication.
克劳德·毕加索此前就人事发表的言论，在现有45名员工的博物馆引起不满，超过半数员工在周末联名发布了一份声明，形容博物馆的管理风格导致了偏袒、争斗、难以捉摸的决策以及沟通不足。
Many of those employees had filled out questionnaires for the Culture Ministry’s review of the museum in March that recommended a management overhaul. In turn, Ms. Baldassari sent a 44-page letter defending her tenure to a local newspaper.
在文化部3月进行的那次建议全面整改的评估中，有许多员工填写了调查问卷。而巴尔德萨里则给当地一家报纸发去了一封44页的信，为她在任期内的表现作辩护。
“There was nothing in the report from the inspector general that surprised us,” the ministry official said on Tuesday. “This had been going on for several years. The truth is that we could not open a museum with all these employees leaving.”
“我们对督察官的报告完全不感到意外，”文化部官员在周二说，“这已经持续多年了。现实就是在这么多雇员离开的情况下，我们是不可能开馆的。”