WASHINGTON — President Obama will get a short-term lift for his nominees, judicial and otherwise, but over the immediate horizon, the strong-arm move by Senate Democrats on Thursday to limit filibusters could usher in an era of rank partisan warfare beyond even what Americans have seen in the past five years.
华盛顿——周四，参议院民主党人采取了强力措施，对通过冗长发言阻碍议事的拖延战术(filibuster)作出限制。这样一来，在短期内，奥巴马总统可以在任命司法官员及其他官员时得到便利。但如果放言更长远的未来，此举或许会迎来一个党派纷争比过去5年更加尖锐的时代。
Ultimately, a small group of centrists — Republicans and Democrats — could find the muscle to hold the Senate at bay until bipartisan solutions can be found. But for the foreseeable future, Republicans, wounded and eager to show they have not been stripped of all power, are far more likely to unify against the Democrats who humiliated them in such dramatic fashion.
原来，一小撮中间派议员——其中既包括民主党也包括共和党成员——最终可以寻求到相应支持，让参议院维持稳定，直到找到两党都支持的方案。然而在可预见的未来，由于民主党以如此戏剧化的方式羞辱了共和党，蒙受创伤的共和党会急于展示自己并没有失去全部力量，因而更加可能会团结起来对抗民主党。
“This is the most important and most dangerous restructuring of Senate rules since Thomas Jefferson wrote them at the beginning of our country,” declared Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. “It’s another raw exercise of political power to permit the majority to do whatever it wants whenever it wants to do it.”
“这是托马斯·杰斐逊(Thomas Jefferson)在美国立国伊始撰写参议院议事规则以来，对这套规则进行的最重要也是最危险重构，”田纳西州共和党参议员拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)。“这是粗暴动用政治力量的又一个例子，它将会允许多数党在任何时候都能为所欲为。”
The decision to press the button on the so-called nuclear option was no doubt cathartic for a Democratic majority driven to distraction by Republican obstructionism. President Obama had predicted his re-election would break the partisan fever gripping Washington, especially since the Tea Party movement swept Republicans to control of the House. It did not.
在共和党的种种阻挠之下，在参议院占多数的民主党被逼得无计可施。此时决定采取所谓的“核选项”，在民主党人看来想必大快人心。奥巴马总统曾经断言，他连任之后，能够打破困扰华盛顿的党派纷争，两党冲突在茶党(Tea Party)运动将共和党推上众议院多数党的位置之后变得尤其严重。但奥巴马没有做到。
“Doing nothing was no longer an option,” said Senator Tom Udall of New Mexico, one of a new breed of Democrats who have pressed to reform Senate rules.
新墨西哥州参议员汤姆·尤德尔(Tom Udall)说，“无所作为已经不再是一种选项了。”尤德尔是一名新生代民主党人，他极力推动参议院议事规则的改革。
But the fever is hardly gone. The rule change lowered to a simple 51-vote majority the threshold to clear procedural hurdles on the way to the confirmation of judges and executive nominees. But it did nothing to streamline the gantlet that presidential nominees run. Republicans may not be able to muster the votes to block Democrats on procedure, but they can force every nominee to exhaust days of debate between every procedural vote in the Senate book — of which there will be many.
但是高温并没有消退。规则变动只是将确认法官和行政官员提名的程序性门槛降低到了51票的简单多数，但是总统提名的人选所面临的考验并没有减少。尽管共和党不能获得足够多的票数，在程序上阻挠民主党人的任命，但是他们能够迫使每个被提名的人选在每次程序性表决之间，花多日时间参加辩论——参议院议事规则中，程序性表决数量众多。
And legislation, at least for now, is still very much subject to the filibuster. On Thursday afternoon, as one Republican after another went to the Senate floor to lament the end of one type of filibuster, they voted against cutting off debate on the annual defense policy bill, a measure that has passed with bipartisan support every year for decades.
而且至少现在看来，立法仍然很容易受到拖延战术的阻挠。周日下午，一名接一名的共和党议员在参议院发言，嗟叹着一个类型的拖延战术走向终结。与此同时，他们投票反对终止在就年度国防政策议案表决前进行的辩论，数十年来这项议案都能得到两党的支持得到通过。
“Today’s historic change to Senate rules escalates what is already a hyperpartisan atmosphere in Washington, which is already preventing Congress from addressing our nation’s most significant challenges,” said former Senator Olympia Snowe, a Republican, and former Representative Dan Glickman, a Democrat, in a joint statement from the Bipartisan Policy Center.
在以两党政策中心(Bipartisan Policy Center)的名义发出的一份联合声明中，前共和党参议员奥林皮娅·斯诺(Olympia Snowe)和前民主党众议员丹·格利克曼(Dan Glickman)说，“今天对参议院议事规则的历史性修改，将会加剧在华盛顿已经十分严重的两党对立气氛，这种对立已经令国会无法应对我国最为重大的挑战。”
Republican senators who were willing to team with Democrats on legislation like an immigration overhaul, farm policy and a reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act will probably think twice going forward.
曾愿意与民主党人合作推行诸如移民改革、农业政策等立法，或者重新授权实施《防止对妇女施暴法》(Violence Against Women Act)的共和党参议员，现在恐怕要三思而后行了。
“We’ll have to see, but I think it was certainly unfortunate,” said Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican who has often worked with Democrats.
缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)曾经常与民主党合作。现在她说，“我们必须得考虑考虑，但我想这样肯定很不利。”
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, made clear that he hoped to exact the ultimate revenge, taking back control of the Senate and using the new rules against the Democrats who made them. “The solution to this problem is at the ballot box,” he said. “We look forward to having a great election.”
肯塔基州参议员、共和党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)表示，他盼望着实施终极报复，即夺回参议院的控制权，用民主党一手制定的规则对付民主党。“解决这个问题的办法在于投票箱，”他说。“我们盼望着赢得一场很棒的选举。”
David Axelrod, a former top adviser to Mr. Obama, said retaliation by Republicans against the president’s broader agenda would end up hurting them more than Democrats. “If their answer is, ‘Oh yeah, we can make it even worse,’ I think they do that at great risk,” Mr. Axelrod said. “They have to make a decision about whether they want to be a shrinking, shrieking, blocking party, or if they are going to be a national party.”
曾为奥巴马担任最高顾问的戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说，共和党对奥巴马总统更广泛的政策目标所采取的报复，到头来对他们自己的伤害，恐怕比对民主党的伤害更大。“如果他们的答案是，‘我们还能使出更坏的招儿，’他们恐怕会面临很严重的后果，”阿克塞尔罗德说。“他们必须要做个判断，是要成为一个张牙舞爪、阻挠议事、规模不断缩小的政党，还是要成为一个全国性政党。”
From the moment Mr. Obama took office, the president who proclaimed that there was no red America and blue America, only the United States of America, has strained to maintain some pretense of bipartisanship — through protracted and fruitless efforts to woo Republicans on his economic stimulus plan and health care law, through dinner dates with some handpicked Republican “friends,” through the nomination of Chuck Hagel, a former Republican senator, to lead the Defense Department.
从奥巴马上任伊始，他就宣称，今后不会再有支持共和党的“红色美国”和支持民主党的“蓝色美国”，只有一个团结的美国。但奥巴马很难维持表面上的两党合作，为了在他的经济刺激方案和医改法案上赢得共和党的支持，他做出了长期的努力，但鲜有成效——他曾邀请精挑细选的共和党“朋友”共进晚餐，还任命前共和党参议员查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)担任国防部长。
In the raucous and dysfunctional House of Representatives, any bill, no matter how inflammatory, has been dubbed bipartisan so long as it attracts a handful of Democratic votes. While Senate leaders have held up for praise any legislation that has secured strong bipartisan majorities — a farm bill, an immigration overhaul, a reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act — Democrats have seethed as one presidential nominee after another fell to procedural blockades and major initiatives like gun control collapsed when they could not reach the 60-vote threshold.
在喧嚣混乱无法运转的众议院，任何一项议案，无论引起的争议多么巨大，只要能吸引少数几名民主党人投票支持，都会冠以“跨党派”的名头。尽管参议院领袖会对得到两党多数议员有力支持的任何一项立法大加赞赏——如一项农业法案、一项移民改革举措，还有一项重新授权《防止对妇女施暴法》的议案——但是总统提名的一个接一个人选，都遭到了程序上的阻挠，而且由于无法达到60票的门槛，枪支管控这样的重要议案也以失败告终，这令民主党人怒不可遏。
Then on Thursday, before a solemn, almost funereal gathering on the Senate floor, the pretense came to an end.
于是在周四，在参议院会场里举行了一场气氛近乎葬礼的肃穆集会之后，表面上的两党合作走到了终点。
“It became clear even to reluctant members that their strategy of gridlock helped them more than us because we are the party that believes government has to be a force for good,” said Charles E. Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Senate Democrat.
参议院民主党三号人物、纽约州参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)说，“即使是最不情愿承认的党员也清晰地意识到，他们处处阻挠的战略，对他们的帮助比对我们更大，因为我们党相信政府必须是一支推行善政的力量。”
At the White House, officials from the president down came to the same conclusion.
在白宫，上至总统下至各级官员也都得出了同样的结论。
“Enough is enough,” Mr. Obama said after the votes in the Senate. “The American people’s business is far too important to keep falling prey day after day to Washington politics.”
“够了就是够了，”在参议院表决之后，奥巴马说。“美国人民的事务如此重要，不能日复一日地成为华盛顿政治的受害者。”
If Mr. Reid or future majority leaders extend the new rules to curb filibusters on legislation, a core group of moderates could emerge with new muscle. The Senate is usually narrowly divided, and it would not take a large coalition in the center to hold partisan legislation hostage to a bipartisan coalition.
如果里德或未来的多数党领袖把新的规则，延伸到立法时也禁止采取拖延战术，那么温和派中的一些核心成员就会拥有全新的影响力。参议院中两党的差距往往很小，不需要多大的中间派联盟就能使某个党派的议案成为这个跨党派联盟的绑架对象。
Already, a group of former governors, led by Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, Senator Alexander and Senator Tom Carper, Democrat of Delaware, have begun banding together.
一小群前州长已经开始联合起来了，其中为首的是西弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)、亚历山大参议员，以及特拉华州民主党参议员汤姆·卡珀(Tom Carper)。
Mr. Obama expressed hope that a bipartisan spirit “will have a little more space now.” And White House officials said it was still in the interest of Senate Republicans to find a way to legislate, rather than to simply obstruct for the rest of Mr. Obama’s term.
奥巴马表示，他希望现在两党合作的精神“会得到更大的空间”。白宫官员表示，在奥巴马剩下的任期内，想办法促成立法，而非仅仅施加阻挠，仍然符合参议院共和党人的利益。
For now, with legislative progress in the House all but doomed by Republican opposition, officials said the president could at least get a full team in place so that he can move forward with executive action, when possible, when Republicans block his agenda in Congress.
众议院的立法程序受制于共和党的反对，几乎全无进展，官员们表示，现在奥巴马总统至少能组建一个完整的团队，从而在他的目标在国会受到共和党阻挠时，尽其所能推进行政举措。
That’s what Republicans fear.
而这正是共和党害怕的。
“This is nothing more than a power grab in order to try to advance the Obama administration’s regulatory agenda,” Mr. McConnell said.
麦康奈尔说，“这无非是争夺权力，为的是努力推行奥巴马政府的监管议程。”