After Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke at a luncheon in Beverly Hills, Calif., last month, women from the audience swarmed around her, many of them asking the same question: will you run for president?
参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)八月在加州贝弗利山庄(Beverly Hills)的一个午餐会上作发言后，随即被一些女性听众团团围住，她们中的许多人问的都是同样的问题：你会竞选总统吗？
Ms. Warren’s fiery speech at the national A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention this month set off even more excitement, with some union members standing on their chairs applauding and shouting out to her. And when she joined a MoveOn.org conference call this summer to promote her student loan legislation, 10,000 people got on the line — the liberal group’s biggest audience on any conference call in four years.
在美国劳联-产联(AFL-CIO)九月份的全国代表大会上，沃伦发表的一场慷慨激昂的演说，点燃了更多的热情：一些工会会员站在椅子上抱以她掌声、为她欢呼。还有，当她参加MoveOn.org今夏的一次电话会议、宣传她的助学贷款法案时，在线听众达到了1万人，这是该自由派组织4年来召开的所有电话会议中，听众人数最多的一次。
In Democratic circles, disappointment in the promise of the Obama presidency and unease over a possible restoration of the Clintons have made the senator, who was sworn in just 10 months ago, the object of huge interest and the avatar of a newly assertive, fervently populist left eager for a more confrontational approach to politics.
在民主党圈子里，人们对奥巴马总统在任期内还能做点什么不抱太高的希望，又对克林顿夫妇卷土重来的可能性感到不安，于是这位宣誓就职刚10个月的参议员成了万众瞩目的对象，也成了一个重新自信、满怀民粹主义热情的左倾力量迫切渴望更具对抗性的政治方式的化身。 
Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, said in an interview that she was not interested in seeking the presidency. And despite talk of a draft movement among some activists, it is difficult to imagine her taking on former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
这位马萨诸塞州民主党参议员在接受采访时表示，她对竞选总统不感兴趣。尽管某些活动人士在谈论动员沃伦参加竞选的行动，但人们很难想象她会愿意与前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)竞争。
But in seizing on issues animating her party’s base — the influence of big banks, soaring student loan debt and the widening gulf between the wealthy and the working class — Ms. Warren is challenging the centrist economic approach that has been the de facto Democratic policy since President Bill Clinton and his fellow moderates took control of the party two decades ago.
但是，通过抓住了一些能让民主党的基层焕发活力的议题，比如大银行的影响，助学贷款负担的不断加重，以及有钱人和劳动阶层之间进一步扩大的财富鸿沟，沃伦在挑战民主党中间派的经济路线。自从比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton )和他的温和派同僚在20年前掌握了该党大权以来，这条经济路线一直是民主党实际执行的政策。
“She is reshaping the Democratic Party and leading its charge toward a more economic populist orientation,” said Markos Moulitsas, the publisher of Daily Kos, a leading liberal blog.
“她正在重塑民主党，而且正在带领该党走向更为经济民粹主义的方向。”Daily Kos的发行人马科斯·莫里萨斯(Markos Moulitsas)说。Daily Kos是一个颇具影响力的自由派博客网站。
Ms. Warren’s fund-raising muscle is also getting attention. Democrats around the country seek her help, and she has a network of 350,000 individual campaign donors — a remarkable tally for a new senator.
沃伦的筹款能力也越来越受关注。全美国的民主党人都在寻求她的帮助，因为她有一个由35万独立个人组成的助其竞选的捐款网，这样的规模对于一个新当选的参议员来说非常之大。
The interest in Ms. Warren, who was a Harvard professor of bankruptcy law and oversaw the creation of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is swelling as some Democratic activists worry that Mrs. Clinton is too close to Wall Street — a major source of her fund-raising in previous campaigns — and is insufficiently committed to challenging the economic status quo.
沃伦曾是哈佛大学的教授，主研破产法，她也曾负责筹建了美国消费者金融保护局(Consumer Financial Protection Bureau)。眼下，对沃伦的关注越来越多，因为某些民主党活动人士对希拉里心存顾虑，他们担心希拉里与华尔街的关系过于密切，以至于她不会尽全力去挑战经济现状。在以前的竞选活动中，华尔街是她主要的筹款来源。
The Clintons and those around them, always alert to the slightest shifts in the political atmosphere and painfully aware of the threat a popular freshman senator can pose, are taking notice of Ms. Warren’s message.
克林顿夫妇及其周围的人一向对政治氛围的微妙变化十分敏感，他们也对一个广受欢迎的新参议员所构成的威胁有痛苦的认识，现在他们正开始注意沃伦的信息。
Asked in a CNN interview last week about his party’s turn to the left, Mr. Clinton contended that he “ran on income inequality in 1992.” Without prompting, he brought up Ms. Warren as he defended his administration’s approach to bank regulation. In 1999, Mr. Clinton signed legislation that repealed parts of the Glass-Steagall Act, allowing the commingling of commercial and investment banking, a move much criticized by the left since the financial crisis of 2008.
克林顿上周在接受CNN采访时，记者提到民主党“向左转”的问题，克林顿回答说，他“在1992年竞选时就已经提出收入不平等的问题”。他为自己政府的银行监管政策做了辩护，并在没有任何提示的情况下，提到了沃伦。1999年，克林顿签署法案，废除了《格拉斯-斯蒂格尔法案》(Glass-Steagall Act)的部分条款，允许商业银行业务和投资银行业务的相互融合。2008年金融危机以来，克林顿的上述行动深受左翼人士诟病。
Privately, some Democratic donors from the financial industry seem unnerved by Ms. Warren’s rise, underscoring the tension between the party’s liberal and centrist wings.
私下里，某些来自金融行业的民主党捐助人似乎为沃伦的崛起而感到不安，这凸显出民主党内部自由派和中间派之间的紧张关系。
“People on Wall Street perceive her to be hostile to their industry, and so there was pretty widespread terror when she got on the Banking Committee,” said Steven Rattner, a New York financier and pillar of Mrs. Clinton’s fund-raising network.
“华尔街人士认为她对他们所在的行业抱有敌意。所以，当她进入参议院银行事务委员会(Banking Committee)时，他们普遍感到恐惧”，史蒂文·拉特纳(Steven Rattner)说。拉特纳是纽约的一位金融家，也是希拉里筹款网的中流砥柱。
The ascendant power of Ms. Warren and her fellow populists is best captured by their torpedoing this month of Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Clinton’s treasury secretary, who was blocked before President Obama could even nominate him to lead the Federal Reserve. And the victory of Bill de Blasio, who hammered home a message of income inequality, in New York City’s Democratic primary for mayor has given the party’s progressive base even more confidence.
沃伦及其民粹主义同僚的影响力正在上升，最能体现这一点的是：九月份，他们摧毁了前克林顿政府财政部长劳伦斯·H·萨默斯的仕途，阻止了奥巴马提名萨默斯为美联储(Federal Reserve)主席人选。而且，在纽约市长大选的民主党党内初选中，极力强调收入不平等问题的比尔·德布拉西奥(Bill de Blasio)获得了胜利，这给了民主党进步派阵营更多的自信。
In the interview, Ms. Warren, 64, said twice that she had no interest in running for president, a point her aides amplify privately. But she said she would continue to focus on economic fairness, saying it is the signal issue of the day.
64岁的沃伦在一次采访中两次谈到她没有兴趣竞选总统，其助手私下里更强调了一点。沃伦表示她将继续关注经济公平问题，她说这是目前具有代表性的问题。
Ms. Warren’s Senate colleagues have yet to embrace her economic agenda: her bill to reinstate the Glass-Steagall Act provisions and her idea of tying student loan interest rates to the Federal Reserve’s discount rate have not advanced.
沃伦参议院里的同事们尚未接受她的经济行动纲领：她递交了一份关于恢复《格拉斯-斯蒂格尔法案》条款效力的议案，并提出了将学生贷款利率与美联储贴现率绑定的想法，不过这些都没能进入参议院的议程。
But Democratic senators are eager to tap her fund-raising power. In addition to raising money for Senator Barbara Boxer of California at the Beverly Hills luncheon, Ms. Warren will host a Boston-area event next month for Senator Mark Begich of Alaska. She was also scheduled to be the keynote speaker Friday at events for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois until votes in Congress forced their postponement.
但民主党参议员们都渴望得到她筹款能力的帮助。除了在贝佛利山庄的午餐会上帮加利福尼亚州参议员芭芭拉·博克瑟(Barbara Boxer)筹款外，十月份她还要为阿拉斯加州参议员马克·贝吉奇(Mark Begich)主办一次在波士顿地区的活动。她原本还计划在10月6日的民主党参议院竞选委员会(Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee)以及伊利诺伊州参议员查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)组织的活动上做主题发言，不过这些活动因国会投票而被迫推迟了。
“She’s the hot number,” said Leo Hindery Jr., a major New York donor and managing partner of InterMedia Partners, a private equity fund. He attributed the intensity of interest to “underlying frustration with the president” and his policies.
“她是政治活动的热门人物”，民主党纽约地区的主要捐赠者小列奥·辛德雷(Leo Hindery Jr.)说。小辛德雷是私募股权基金InterMedia的执行合伙人。他把外界对沃伦的热切关注，归结于“对总统本人及其政策的失望”。
The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee found last year that affixing Ms. Warren’s name to a fund-raising appeal brought in more money than solicitations from all other party figures except Mr. Obama and Mr. Clinton. For her Senate race last year, she raised a stunning $42 million — second in history only to Mrs. Clinton in 2006 among candidates not financing their own Senate campaigns.
民主党竞选委员会去年发现，带有沃伦名义的募捐请求所筹到的金额，比以除了奥巴马和克林顿之外的党内任何其他人物的名义的筹款活动，所得到的都多。她去年竞选参议员时筹到了令人瞠目的4200万美元——历史上，在未自掏腰包参加竞选的参议员候选人中，她筹得的金额仅次于2006年希拉里筹到的。
The senator is careful, however, about how her activities are perceived. Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said in an interview that Ms. Warren had declined his invitation to be the marquee speaker at his annual steak fry fund-raiser.
不过，这位参议员很注意她的活动如何被外界解释。艾奥瓦州民主党参议员汤姆·哈金(Tom Harkin)在一次采访中表示，沃伦婉拒了他的邀请，不要为他的年度筹款活动——炸牛排大会担任主要演讲人。
The steak fry is among the most closely watched events in early presidential primary states, and Ms. Warren’s aides recognized what an appearance would signify; Mr. Obama effectively declared his interest in the presidency when he agreed to be the keynote speaker in 2006.
炸牛排大会在总统大选早期的各州初选中，是最受关注的活动之一，所以沃伦的助手深知出席这样场合意味着什么。当奥巴马2006年答应给炸牛排大会做主题演讲时，实际上等于宣布了他竞选总统的兴趣。
Ms. Warren’s reluctance to attend suggests that at least for now, her impact will be felt mainly from her perch in the Senate.
沃伦不愿意参加炸牛排大会，这说明至少就目前来看，她将主要以参议员的身份发挥自己的影响力。
Still, should Mrs. Clinton decline to seek the presidency again, top Democrats expect the pressure on Ms. Warren to consider a candidacy to increase significantly.
不过，民主党高层预计，如果希拉里拒绝再次竞选总统的话，推动沃伦考虑参选的压力就会大为增加。
“If Hillary doesn’t run, I bet there will be plenty of folks, particularly on the left, urging her to look at it,” said David Axelrod, a longtime adviser to Mr. Obama, who called Ms. Warren “an electric figure” among liberals.
“我敢打赌，如果希拉里不去竞选，会有很多人——特别是左派——将鼓励她考虑参选。”戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说。阿克塞尔罗德是奥巴马的长期顾问，他称沃伦是自由派里“令人兴奋的人物”。