Signs of democratic dysfunction are everywhere, from Athens to Ankara, Brussels to Brasília. In the United States, the federal government has shut down 12 times in the last 35 years. According to the political scientists Christopher Hare and Keith T. Poole, the two main American political parties are more polarized now than they have been at any time since the Civil War. Meanwhile, a Gallup tracking poll shows that trust in the presidency and in the Supreme Court stands at historic lows — while faith in Congress has plummeted so far that it is now in the single digits.
民主失灵的迹象无处不在，从雅典到安卡拉，从布鲁塞尔到巴西利亚。在过去的35年里，美国联邦政府停摆过12次。政治学者克里斯托弗·黑尔(Christopher Hare)和基思·T·普尔(Keith T. Poole)称，现今美国两大政党的两极分化程度达到南北战争以来的最高峰。与此同时，盖洛普的一项追踪民调显示，民众对总统和最高法院的信任度达到历史低点——而对国会的信任度急剧下降至个位数。
Some citizens of democracies have become so unhappy with their institutions that — according to disturbing new studies of public opinion around the world — they may be tempted to dispense with partisan politics altogether. Would it not be better to let the president make decisions without having to worry about Congress — or to entrust key decisions to unelected experts like the Federal Reserve and the Pentagon?
对全球范围内的公众意见进行的新研究得出令人不安的结果——民主国家的一些公民对其体制十分不满，以致于他们可能受到了彻底摆脱政党政治的诱惑。让总统制定决策而毋须担忧国会的意见不是更好吗？抑或委托未经选举的专家制定重要决策，比如美联储和五角大楼？
According to a growing share of Americans, the answer is yes. Back in 1995, the well-respected World Values Survey, which studies representative samples of citizens in almost 100 countries, asked Americans for the first time whether they approved of the idea of “having the army rule.” One in 15 agreed. Since then, that number has steadily grown, to one in six.
对于这些问题，越来越多的美国人给出肯定的答案。颇具权威的世界价值观调查(World Values Survey)在近百个国家内选取有代表性的公民样本加以研究。1995年，这项调查首次询问美国人是否赞成“军队统治”，当时有十五分之一的人表示赞同。自此之后，这一数据稳步上升，现已达到六分之一。
To be sure, that still leaves five out of six Americans who would rather not have a military coup. And of course, not every American who tells a pollster that he would rather have the army in charge would actually support a coup. But the willingness to countenance alternative forms of government, if only by a small minority, reveals a deep disillusionment with democracy, one that should concern everyone living in an advanced democracy, including those in Europe and Asia.
诚然，仍有六分之五的美国人不愿经历军事政变。当然，也不是所有在民意调查中表意赞成军队统治的人真的会支持政变。但是，愿意接受其他政府形式的意向——即使只是少数人的想法——揭示出人们对民主政治的幻灭。这是每一位生活在发达民主国家的居民都应该忧虑的问题，无论是在欧洲，还是在亚洲。
The generational differences are striking. When the World Values Survey asked Americans how important it was for them to live in a democracy, citizens born before World War II were the most adamant. On a scale of one to ten, 72 percent assigned living in a democracy a ten, the highest possible value. Among many of their children and grandchildren, however, democracy no longer commands the same devotion. A little over half of Americans born in the postwar boom gave maximum importance to living in a democracy. Among those born since the 1980s, less than 30 percent did.
代际之间的差异相当惊人。当世界价值观调查向美国人询问生活在民主国家的重要性时，生于二战之前的人表现得最为坚定。在一至十分的计量表上，他们之中有72%的人将生活在民主国家的重要性排在十分的最大值。但是，对于不少他们的子女和孙辈而言，民主不再能博得同样的热情。战后经济繁荣期出生的美国人中，给这一重要性打出最高分的将过半。而这一比例在80年代之后出生的人中不及30%。
Political scientists are well aware that poll after poll shows citizens to be more dissatisfied than in the past. Yet they resist the most straightforward conclusion: that people may be less supportive of democracy than they once were.
政治学者清楚地意识到，一次次的民意调查显示，民众的满意度不比从前。但是他们拒绝得出最直白的结论：人们可能不如以往那样支持民主政治。
Ronald Inglehart and Pippa Norris, for example, argue that expectations of citizens have grown rapidly in recent decades, leading to disappointment with the performance of individual politicians and particular governments. But while government legitimacy may have taken a hit, regime legitimacy — that is to say, faith in democracy as such — is as strong as ever, they say.
比如，罗纳德·英格哈特(Ronald Inglehart)和皮帕·诺里斯(Pippa Norris)称，在最近的几十年里，民众的期望快速升高，因而容易对个别政客和政府的表现感到失望。不过，他们认为，虽然政府合法性——即对民主政治的信念——可能遭到了挫败，但政权的合法性仍一如既往，坚不可摧。
Worryingly, though, questions in the World Values Survey that directly speak to regime legitimacy no longer support that optimistic interpretation. In countries from the United States to Sweden, and from the Netherlands to Japan, citizens over the last three decades have become less likely to endorse the importance of democracy; less likely to express trust in democratic institutions; and less likely to reject nondemocratic alternatives.
但是，令人担忧的是，世界价值观调查中直接提及政权合法性问题的问卷结果，已经无法再支持上述乐观诠释。在过去的30年里，从美国到瑞典，从荷兰到日本，不少国家的民众变得相对不那么认可民主的重要性；不那么信任民主制度；也相对不那么抗拒非民主政体。
This raises a question that would have seemed strange, even preposterous, to us until we started to embark on our current research: Could the political system in seemingly stable democracies like the United States be less imperturbable than meets the eye?
这给我们提出了一个原先看来非常奇怪、甚至有点荒谬的问题——直到我们开始目前这项研究以前。这个问题是，在诸如美国这样看似稳固的民主国家中，政治制度会不会并不像它表面看来那么稳定？
Scholars have long believed that democracies are stable once they have, in the words of Juan J. Linz and Alfred C. Stepan, become “the only game in town.” In such “consolidated” democracies, where an alternative system of government no longer seems like a possibility, an overwhelming majority of the citizens believes that the only legitimate form of government is democratic. Mainstream political actors refrain from subverting the rules of the democratic game for partisan advantage. And political forces that seek to dismantle the main aspects of the democratic system, like an independent judiciary, are weak or nonexistent.
长久以来，学界一直认为，一旦民主变成胡安·J·林茨(Juan J. Linz)和艾尔弗雷德·C·斯捷潘(Alfred C. Stepan)所说的“唯一的游戏规则”，它就不会再轻易发生变化。在这种“稳固”的民主政体下，似乎不再存在其他的政府制度选项，绝大多数民众相信民主是唯一正当的政府形式。主流政界人士会避免出于党派利益去破坏民主游戏的规则，而追求取消诸如独立司法这类民主制度的支柱的政治势力则比较弱小，或根本不存在。
Until recently, all of these statements described countries like the United States. Today, it is far from obvious that they still do.
直到最近，上述描述都还适用于美国等民主国家。但论及现在是否依然如此，就很难讲了。
It is not just that citizens like democracy less than they once did: Respect for the rules of the democratic game is also eroding. While most Americans still have a deep emotional attachment to the Constitution, the informal norms that have kept the system stable in the past are increasingly disregarded in political practice. Parliamentary procedures long reserved for extraordinary circumstances, for example, are used with stunning regularity. It is not uncommon to threaten impeachment, or to use the filibuster to block legislation — not because the bill is especially transformative, but simply because a legislative minority disagrees with it.
事情还不只是民众不像过去那么喜欢民主那么简单：人们对民主游戏规则的尊重也在减弱。尽管大多数美国人对宪法依然有很深的认同，但在政治实践中，让体制保持稳定的一些不那么正式的规范，却越来越多地遭到忽视。比如，一些过去只在特殊情况下才采用的议会程序，如今被动用的频率大得惊人。以冗长演说拖延战术或弹劾要挟阻止立法的行为，并不罕见，而且采取这种手段并不是因为这个提案格外具有变革性，而只是因为国会的少数党不认同它。
The rise of parties that are critical of key aspects of liberal democracy, like freedom of the press or minority rights, is even more disconcerting. Since the early 1990s, votes for populists have soared in most major Western democracies, whether the National Front in France or the People’s Party in Denmark.
更让人不安的是，对言论自由或少数人权益等自由民主制度的重要构成持批判态度的政党开始崛起。自90年代初以来，民粹主义政党——不管是法国的国民阵线(National Front)，还是丹麦的人民党(People’s Party)——在大多数重要西方民主国家的支持率，在急剧上升。
It is no foregone conclusion that such parties will one day take over the government, nor that they would dismantle liberal democracy if they did. And most citizens say they still want to live in a democracy. But the democratic consensus is more brittle than it was. Scholars who long ago concluded that postwar Western democracies have “consolidated” must reckon with the possibility that a process of what we call “democratic deconsolidation” may be underway.
虽说这些政党未必会在未来某个时候执掌政府，即便他们上台，也未必会摧毁自由民主。而且大多数民众也都表示，依然想生活在民主社会。不过，民主共识正变得比过去更加脆弱。很早以前断言战后西方民主社会已经“稳固”的学者们，必须思考这样的可能：一种我们称之为“民主解固”的进程有可能正在发生。
In our view, there are three main explanations for this development.
在我们看来，之所以会出现这种状况，主要有以下三个原因。
First, most Americans still have materially comfortable lives, especially by international standards. But a long period of stagnating incomes for average citizens has led to a shift in perspective. For two centuries, most Americans knew they were better off than their parents — and expected that their children would be better off still. Occasional surges of populist discontent were cushioned by their fear of upsetting a system that had served them well, and was expected to continue delivering tangible benefits. That optimism is gone.
首先，大多数美国人的物质生活依然比较宽裕，以全球标准衡量，尤其如此。但公民平均收入增长长期停滞不前，已经导致他们的观念发生一定转变。过去两个世纪，大多数美国人都知道自己的境况与比父母辈有所提高，也预计子女的生活将来会更好。间或涌起的民粹主义不满情绪，也被人们自身的一种担忧所消解，他们担心自己会搅乱一个此对他们颇为有利且有望继续带来切实利益的制度。如今，这种对于未来的乐观已经不复存在。
Second, rising income inequality has transformed the views of the rich more radically than the views of the poor. In egalitarian societies, elites identify with the middle class, and believe that uncorrupted democratic institutions serve their own economic interests. In oligarchic societies, economic elites share few material interests with ordinary people, and have much to lose from policies that would improve their lot.
第二，日益加剧的收入不平等，对富裕阶层的观念产生的改变，比对贫穷阶层观念的影响，要更为剧烈。在奉行平等主义的社会里，精英阶层与中产阶级立场一致，他们相信没有被收买的民主机构会为他们的经济利益服务。而在寡头垄断的社会里，经济精英和普通人的共同物质利益非常之少，他们反到会因为一些提高大众生活水平的政策而损失很多。
Even though economic policy has, by virtually any objective metric, treated wealthy Americans favorably over the past decade, for example, many of them genuinely believe they are the victims of a “war on the rich.”
例如，尽管不论以什么客观标准衡量，美国经济政策在过去十年都是偏向美国富裕阶层的，但他们中很多人却打心眼里认为自己是“针对富人的战争”的受害者。
This helps to explain the seeming paradox that the rich are now more likely to be critical of democracy than the poor. According to the World Values Survey, less than 20 percent of wealthy Americans (those in the top income quintile) approved of having a “strong leader who doesn’t have to bother with Congress or elections” back in 1995. Today, more than 40 percent do.
这有助于我们理解一个看似矛盾的事实，即如今富裕阶层比穷人更容易对民主制度持批评态度。世界价值观调查的结果显示，在1995年，只有不到20%的美国富人（这里指美国收入最高的五分之一人群）支持美国出现一个“不会被国会纠缠，也不用为竞选费心的强势领导人”。如今，这个比率超过了40%。
The less comfortable the wealthy are with the democratic process, the more inclined they are to invest in influencing electoral outcomes, via lobbying legislators or funding campaigns. The greater the role of paid influence and campaign spending, the more ordinary citizens feel that the political system no longer listens to them. That is the third reason for democracy’s loss of legitimacy.
富人对民主进程越不满意，就越容易出资游说议员或资助竞选活动，以期改变选举结果。金钱换影响的手段和竞选开销所能产生的作用越大，普通民众就越觉得政治制度不再为他们说话。这是民主的合法性日益薄弱的第三个原因。
Consider a recent study by the political scientists Martin Gilens and Benjamin I. Page, who analyzed who has been most successful in determining policy making in the United States over the past 30 years. It found that economic elites and narrow interest groups were very influential, while the views of ordinary citizens and mass-based interest groups had virtually no impact. “When the preferences of economic elites and the stands of organized interest groups are controlled for,” Mr. Gilens and Mr. Page write, “the preferences of the average American appear to have only a minuscule, near-zero, statistically nonsignificant impact upon public policy.” Their takeaway: “In the United States, the majority does not rule.”
不妨来看看政治学者马丁·吉伦斯(Martin Gilens)和本杰明·I·佩奇(Benjamin I. Page)最近的一项研究，他们分析了过去三十年哪些群体最为成功地左右了美国政策的制定。结果显示，经济精英阶层和狭隘利益集团在这方面影响非常大，而普通公众和群众基础广泛的利益集团的观念则几乎无影响力可言。“在经济精英阶层的偏好和有组织利益集团的立场受到控制之后，”吉伦斯和佩奇写道，“普通美国人的喜好似乎只能对公共政策产生非常微小、几近于零的影响，这种影响从统计学上讲无足轻重。”他们的中心思想是：“美国并不是一个由大多数人主宰的社会。”
Citizens are aware of this disconnect. When asked by the World Values Survey to rate how democratically their country is being governed on a 10-point scale, a third of Americans now tend toward the end — “not at all democratic.”
人民知道这种断层的存在。据世界价值观调查(World Values Survey)统计，以10分为满分，当被问及国家治理的民主程度有多高时，现时有三分一的美国人倾向给予极端的分数——“完全不民主”。
Paradoxically, the solution to democracy’s ills will have to involve daring more democracy. The Harvard law professor Lawrence Lessig, who recently announced that he will run for president unless other candidates get serious about reforming the electoral process, is right: To restore democracy’s promise, we need ambitious institutional overhauls to curb the political power of the rich.
矛盾的是，民主弊病的解决方法却涉及到进一步推行民主。哈佛大学法学教授劳伦斯·雷席格(Lawrence Lessig)最近宣布，如果其他总统候选人不认真改革选举过程，他将参加总统竞选。他是对的：要兑现民主对人民的承诺，我们便需要大幅改革体制，以限制富人的政治权力。
Strict limits on campaign finance contributions are essential. The influence of corporate lobbyists has to be curtailed. The revolving door between Washington and Wall Street needs to be jammed. And, given that most members of Congress are now millionaires, a more economically diverse generation of politicians needs to take over the reins.
严格限制竞选捐款是必不可少的。企业说客的政治影响力必须被削弱。华盛顿与华尔街之间的旋转门亦需被堵住。而且，考虑到目前大部分国会议员都是百万富翁，需要用在经济状况上更具多样性的新一代政治人士来取而代之。
Institutional change, however, is only the first step toward the real goal: redistributive policies that improve the standard of living of citizens.
然而，体制改革却只是改革进程中的第一步，其真正的目标是：改革再分配政策，以此改善人民的生活水平。
In times of slow growth like the present, the rapidly rising fortunes of the rich are being purchased at the price of material stagnation for everyone else. If we want the bulk of ordinary citizens to remain invested in democracy, we need to channel a much greater share of our economic output to them.
在现时经济放缓的阶段，富人牺牲了在经济萧条下的普罗大众，以换取自己财富的快速增长。如果我们想令普罗大众仍旧坚信民主，就需要将更大一部分经济产出用在他们身上。
Never in modern history has a rich and long-established democracy collapsed. Recent public opinion data may be worrying, but it hardly proves that doom is imminent. Most citizens still support democracy.
在近现代史上，从来没有富裕的老牌民主政权垮台。纵使近日的民意数据可能令人担忧，但这不代表末日即将来临。大部分人仍然支持民主。
Yet the warning signs are clear enough that it would be folly to ignore them. Democracies are not as consolidated as they once were, in good part because citizens no longer enjoy the material advances they once took for granted. There is no historical precedent that can tell us what happens to established democracies when most citizens go years, even decades, without an improvement in their standard of living.
但危险的信号已经足够清晰，无视它们是将是愚蠢的。民主国家已不像以往那般坚如磐石，这在相当程度上是因为人民不再享有物质上的优越，而那是他们曾视为理所当然的。没有历史先例能告诉我们，当大多数人民的生活水平在几年、甚至几十年间维持不变时，一个已经确立根基的民主国家会发生什么。
The future of democracy is uncertain. In the West, democratic systems have proved strong enough to weather the disappointments of the last decades. It’s perfectly possible that they can weather more. But to put off serious change because it is so easy to assume that democracy is here to stay is to put at risk the very stability of democratic government.
民主的未来并不明朗。在西方，民主制度已经证明它的强大，足以抵受得住过往数十年带来的失望，而且完全有可能经得起更多的考验。但是，如果因为假定民主不会垮台而放弃深刻的改革，那就会让民主政府本身面临根基不稳的危险。