WASHINGTON — Congressional Democrats, torn over involving the United States in another unpredictable Middle East war, are emerging as a major barrier to President Obama’s plan to strike Syria.
华盛顿——民主党国会议员对美国卷入又一场难以预料的中东战争存在分歧，他们正成为奥巴马总统袭击叙利亚计划的一个主要障碍。
Many of the president’s core supporters, especially African-Americans and members of the Democratic Party’s liberal wing who voted repeatedly against the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, are expressing the deepest reservations. With rank-and-file House Republicans showing little inclination to back Mr. Obama on an issue on which he has staked his political credibility, scores of Democratic votes will be needed if a resolution authorizing force against Syria is to pass the House.
奥巴马的许多核心支持者，尤其是非裔美国人，以及曾反复投票反对伊拉克和阿富汗战争的民主党自由派，纷纷表达最为强烈的保留意见。由于普通共和党众议员没什么意愿在奥巴马赌上自身政治信誉的议题上予以支持，那么，要想众议院通过对叙利亚动武的授权决议，就必须有大量的民主党人投赞成票。
Democrats say they are being confronted with a difficult choice: go against the wishes of a president who is popular and well respected in their caucus, or defy voters back home who are overwhelmingly opposed to another United States military intervention overseas.
一些民主党人表示，他们面对的是一个两难的局面：要么违背总统的意愿，要么违背家乡选民的意见。总统深受民主党同侪的欢迎和尊敬，而绝大多数选民反对美国再次卷入海外的军事干预行动。
In the first sign of how splits within the party will loom large over the Syria debate, two Democrats voted no and a third voted present on Wednesday when a divided Senate committee approved a use-of-force resolution with senators from both parties crossing over.
参议院外交委员会周三的投票给出了第一个信号，围绕着叙利亚辩论的民主党党内分歧将突显出来。莫衷一是的该委员会周三投票批准了一项动武决议，但两党参议员均未按照党派界线投票，两名民主党人投了反对票，还有一人弃权。
“There are two major considerations to take into account,” said Representative Hakeem Jeffries, a freshman from New York and member of the Black Caucus. “The prestige of an administration we strongly support versus an open-ended conflict in the Middle East that risks the lives of the people we represent if war were to break out. Not to mention the diversion of resources back into our communities that sorely need it.”
“有两个主要问题需要考虑，”来自纽约州的众议院新人、黑人议员团成员哈基姆·杰弗里斯(Hakeem Jeffries)说。“一方面是我们强烈支持的奥巴马政府的声誉；另一方面是卷入一场无止境的中东冲突。一旦战争爆发，要拿我们代表的选民的生命冒险，更别谈我们社群亟需的资源将被分配到别处。”
In a reversal of the usual power dynamic in the House, the fate of the resolution rests to a large degree with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California of California, the Democratic leader and former speaker. Ms. Pelosi has not faced a bigger test from the president since she helped push his health care overhaul through the House without Republican support in 2010.
与众议院通常的力量对比相反，本次决议的命运很大程度上取决于众议院民主党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)。这名来自加利福尼亚州的议员曾任众议院议长。在2010年她想方设法在没有共和党支持的情况下帮助奥巴马的医保全面改革得到众议院的批准之后，本次投票将是总统给她的最大考验。
Though she has said the vote will be a matter of conscience for her members, she is working assiduously behind the scenes with White House officials as they try to forge a path toward passage. Since meeting with the president on Tuesday, Ms. Pelosi has been gathering suggestions from her members about how to tweak his proposal so it can win their support.
尽管佩洛西表示，针对此次投票，其麾下的民主党人可以各自凭良心行事，但在幕后，她正与白宫官员大力合作，为决议保驾护航。周二与总统会面后，她一直在征求民主党议员的意见，以便对总统的计划做出微调，从而赢得他们的支持。
Her efforts come as the White House is taking additional steps to convert some of the most skeptical Democrats. On Wednesday the White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, convened a conference call for members of the House Progressive Caucus. Early next week, Susan E. Rice, the president’s national security adviser, will brief members of the Congressional Black Caucus.
就在她做工作的同时，白宫也采取了一些额外的手段，以使怀疑程度最深的部分民主党人改变看法。周三，白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)召集了众议院进步派议员团进行电话会议。下周伊始，总统国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)将向国会黑人议员团通报情况。
But even with her widely acknowledged ability to marshal her members in the toughest of political predicaments, Ms. Pelosi could find that in matters of conscience like war, party loyalty is not as powerful a force as it has been for her in the past.
但即便佩洛西在最艰难的政治困境中引领麾下议员的能力是众所周知的，她也可能会发现，诸如战争之类的良心问题，党派忠诚不如以往那样强大。
“I wasn’t elected just to go along to get along,” said Representative Gregory W. Meeks, another New Yorker leaning against supporting military action in Syria. “I was elected to utilize my thought process and to determine what I think is in the best interest of my district.”
“我之所以当选，不是为了随波逐流，以图获得好人缘，”另一名倾向于不支持对叙动武的纽约州众议员格雷戈里·W·米克斯(Gregory W. Meeks)说。“我之所以当选，是为了让我开动脑筋来确定什么才是我认为最有利于自己选区的事情。”
Other Democrats who have expressed strong reservations include many veteran members like Jim McGovern of Massachusetts, Jim McDermott of Washington and Earl Blumenauer of Oregon.
表达过强烈保留意见的民主党人还包括许多资深议员，例如马萨诸塞州的吉姆·麦戈文(Jim McGovern)、华盛顿州的吉姆·麦克德莫特(Jim McDermott)和俄勒冈州的厄尔·布鲁曼诺尔(Earl Blumenauer)。
The divisions within the party do not break down neatly along the usual lines that have separated the antiwar Democrats from the hawks.
党内分歧并没有简单地按照民主党反战派与鹰派之间的寻常界线发生。
Those who are deeply conflicted about how to proceed include liberals who are ordinarily suspicious of using military force but feel compelled to punish President Bashar al-Assad of Syria over accusations that his forces staged a chemical attack against civilians. There are also members who represent primarily minority and urban districts where the president’s word carries a lot of weight but voters are preoccupied with how spending cuts are hurting public assistance and threatening Social Security and Medicare.
那些对于下一步应如何走感到非常纠结的人包括部分自由派人士。他们通常质疑动用武力，但又感到必须惩罚叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)，因为据称他的军队对平民进行了化学武器攻击。还有一些主要代表少数族裔和城市选区的众议员，总统的话在他们的选区分量很重，但选民目前关注的是削减开支对公共援助项目的损害，以及对社会安全福利(Social Security)和联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的威胁。
For many Democrats who voted against the Iraq war authorization in 2002, that experience weighs heavily today. Though they say the parallels often cited by the president’s opponents are exaggerated — this time, for example, there Congress would set strict time limits on the duration of the military engagement — the outcome of another conflict that could become intractable and prolonged is impossible to predict.
对于2002年投票反对过伊拉克战争授权的许多民主党人来说，那次的经历对今天影响很大。尽管他们声称，常被总统的反对者援引的相似之处是夸大其词，例如这一次国会将严格限制军事介入的时长，但这是又一场可能演变为长期棘手问题的冲突，其后果不可预测。
“The administration can tell us all they want that this will be discreet, targeted and limited to military facilities,” said Mr. McGovern. “Sometimes military operations have a strange way of getting out of hand.”
“奥巴马政府想怎么说都行，他们希望这是一次谨慎的、有针对性的打击，目标仅限于军事设施，”麦戈文说。“但有时不知怎地军事行动就是会失控。”
Other Democrats expressed concerns about another unknown variable: what the response from the Assad government would be.
其他一些民主党人表达了对另一未知因素的担忧：阿萨德政府将会如何回应。
“I think a lot of us believe there’s a legitimate use of military action where a state has used chemical weapons,” said Representative Peter Welch of Vermont. “On the other hand, there is a very compelling question about what the effect of that will be. Will it make the situation better or worse?”
“我想，我们中的许多人都相信，在一国政府使用化学武器的情况下展开军事行动是正当的，”佛蒙特州众议员彼得·韦尔奇(Peter Welch)说。“但另一方面，一个非常重要的问题是，军事打击将会造成什么样的影响，将令局势好转还是恶化呢？”
Mr. Welch said the question became even more complicated for Democrats because war “runs against the grain” of where they have stood for the last decade.
韦尔奇称，这个问题对民主党人而言尤为复杂，因为战争与他们在过去10年所坚持的立场“格格不入”。