WASHINGTON — Senate Democrats delivered a victory to President Barack Obama when they blocked a Republican resolution to reject a six-nation nuclear accord with Iran on Thursday, ensuring the landmark deal will take effect without a veto showdown between Congress and the White House.
华盛顿——参议院民主党人在周四为贝拉克·奥巴马总统带去一场胜利，他们成功阻止了一项意在否决六国伊朗核协议的共和党决议，确保这份划时代的协议能够生效，而国会和白宫之间也不再需要展开否决权的较量。
A procedural vote fell two short of the 60 needed to break a Democratic filibuster. It culminated hours of debate on the Senate and capped weeks of discord since the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Russia and China announced the agreement with Iran in July.
这次程序性表决距离所需的60票还差两票，最终未能终结民主党的拖延战术。这是数小时参议院辩论的大结局，而自美、英、法、德、俄、中六国在七月宣布和伊朗达成协议后持续几周的争吵，也就此告一段落。
The debate divided Democrats between their loyalties to the president and to their constituents, animated the anti-war movement on the left and exposed the diminishing power of the Israeli lobbying force that spent tens of millions of dollars to prevent the accord.
这场争论令民主党人面临抉择——是忠于总统还是忠于自己选区的选民，它将左派人士的反战运动推向高潮，还暴露了以色列游说力量的减弱，他们为阻止协议达成已经投入了数以千万计的美元。
“Regardless of how one feels about the agreement,” Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, one of four Democrats to vote against Obama, said on the Senate floor, “fair-minded Americans should acknowledge the president's strong achievements in combating and containing Iran.”
“无论对协议持怎样的态度，”四名投票反对奥巴马的民主党人之一、纽约州参议员查尔斯·舒默(Charles Schumer)在参议院说，“一个公正的美国人应该认识到，总统在对抗、遏制伊朗上取得了坚实的成就。”
Obama's triumph in securing the deal — without the support of a single member of the party now in control of Congress — is refashioning the definition of victory for a waning presidency in the era of divided government. While bipartisan victories tend to be those most celebrated outside of Washington, success by the president is now often measured more by the scope of the policy achieved than by any claim of sweeping consensus.
在这个政府分化的时代，奥巴马的伊朗核协议，在控制着当今国会的共和党中没有得到一个支持者，他的这场胜利重新定义了一个面临卸任的总统所能取得的成就。在华盛顿之外，跨越两党鸿沟的胜利往往会得到最多的称颂，而总统的成败，如今更多的是通过政策的视野来衡量，而不是政策能取得多大的共识。
Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader, said Thursday that he would force the exact same vote again next week, just to make Democrats go through the exercise one last time.
肯塔基州共和党人、参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)在周四说，下周他还会发动同样的一场表决，就为了让民主党人最后再来这样过一遍。
“If the president's so proud of this deal, he shouldn't be afraid,” McConnell said, as he stared at Democrats on the floor immediately after the vote.
“如果总统对这份协议真那么得意，他就用不着害怕，”麦康奈尔在表决刚一结束就盯着参议院的民主党人们说道。
It is highly unlikely that any senator will change his or her vote.
不太可能有参议员会改变他们的投票决定。
Obama is likely to go down in history as a rare president whose single biggest foreign policy and domestic achievements were won with no Republican votes. As with the Iran accord, the health care law — passed exclusively with Democratic votes — was a policy achievement that has come to define his presidency, in part through the vehemence of its opponents in Congress.
奥巴马有望在没有任何共和党投票支持的情况下，实现其最重要的外交和内政成就，这在历史上是极为罕见的。和伊朗核协议一样，完全依靠民主党议员投票通过的医疗法案已经成为定义其总统生涯的政策成就，而该法案在国会遭到共和党的断然否定，也在一定程度上成就了这一点。