COLUMBIA, S.C. — Drawing overwhelming support from the African-American voters who deserted her here eight years ago, Hillary Clintonwon her first resounding victory of the 2016 campaign in South Carolina on Saturday, delivering a blow to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont as their fight turns to the 11 states where Democrats vote on Tuesday.
南卡罗来纳州哥伦比亚——周六，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在南卡罗来纳州得到了八年前抛弃她的非裔选民的广泛支持，赢得2016年竞选中的首场大捷，给了佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)沉重的一击。周二，将有11个州的民主党人进行投票，两人之间的争夺大战还将继续上演。
After supporting Barack Obama in 2008, African-American voters, who will be the dominant force in the coming Southern primaries, turned out in droves for Mrs. Clinton here. They supported her over Mr. Sanders by a 5-to-1 ratio, while he won the bulk of white voters, according to early exit polling.
在南方各州即将举行的初选中，非裔选民将成为主导力量。在2008年支持奥巴马之后，他们这次成群结队地投票支持克林顿。早期的出口民调显示，他们当中克林顿的支持者和桑德斯的支持者比例为五比一，不过桑德斯赢得了大部分白人选民的支持。
Mrs. Clinton assiduously cultivated the support of black voters, not least by showing her devotion to President Obama and by promising to build on his legacy. She capped off months of campaigning here with stops on Friday at a popular soul food restaurant and bakery in Charleston and a rally at a historically black college in Orangeburg, alongside black surrogates including the television personality Star Jones and the state’s longtime representative, James E. Clyburn.
克林顿竭力争取黑人选民的支持，尤其是通过表明自己忠于奥巴马总统，并承诺将继承他的政治遗产。周五当天，她给这个州持续数月的竞选活动画上句点，在电视明星斯塔尔·琼斯(Star Jones)和该州资深众议员詹姆斯·E·克莱伯恩(James E. Clyburn)等黑人代表的陪同下，现身查尔斯顿一家颇受欢迎的黑人餐厅和面包房，并在奥兰治堡一家历史上面向黑人的学院举行了集会。
“I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for digging us out of the ditch Republicans put us in,” Mrs. Clinton said, a line she often used in South Carolina, where Mr. Obama defeated her by 29 points in 2008.
“共和党让我们跳进了坑里，奥巴马总统把我们救了出来，但我觉得他并未得到应有的认可，”克林顿说。在南卡罗来纳州，她常把这句话挂在嘴边。2008年，也是在这里，她被奥巴马以29个百分点的优势打败。
This time it was Mrs. Clinton who emerged from the first southern primary with a clearer path to the nomination. With early exit polls showing Mrs. Clinton winning by more than 35 percentage points, The Associated Press called the primary for her shortly after polls closed at 7 p.m. State officials projected that turnout was modest compared to the 532,000 ballots cast in the Clinton-Obama primary race here in 2008, and well below the record 743,000 votes cast in South Carolina’s Republican primary last Saturday, which Donald J. Trump won.
而这一次，她成了那个在南方首场初选中获胜，取得提名的道路变得更加清晰的那个人。鉴于早期出口民调显示，克林顿领先逾35个百分点，美联社在投票点于晚上7点结束后不久，便宣布克林顿赢得了这场初选。该州官员估计，与2008年克林顿与奥巴马角逐时53.2万人投票的情况相比，这一次投票人数的规模有限，同时也远低于上周六共和党在南卡罗来纳州进行初选时的投票人数。在上周六的共和党初选中，投票人数达到了创纪录的74.3万人，获胜者为唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。
The rout was both politically and psychologically meaningful for Mrs. Clinton after she barely defeated Mr. Sanders in Iowa, lost to him by 21 percentage points in New Hampshire, and eked out a 5.5 percentage point victory last week in Nevada.
鉴于此前在艾奥瓦州险胜桑德斯、在新罕布什尔州被对方领先21个点、上周在内华达州再次仅以5.5个点的优势险胜，这次一举击败对手在政治和心理上都对克林顿有着重要的意义。
Beyond delivering momentum, the win also extends Mrs. Clinton’s lead over Mr. Sanders in delegates needed to clinch the Democratic nomination; the exact allocation of South Carolina’s 53 delegates will be known once all the votes are counted.
除了提振士气外，这场胜利也扩大了克林顿在代表人数上的领先优势，需要得到足够多的代表支持才能赢得民主党提名。一旦选票全部清点完毕，南卡罗来纳州53名代表人数的具体分配才能见分晓。
The results also helped Mrs. Clinton extinguish any doubts among Democrats about her ability to appeal to black voters, with black women, in particular, enthusiastically backing her candidacy in South Carolina and in the Nevada caucuses last week.
这样的结果也有助于克林顿平息民主党内部对她能否争取到黑人选民的质疑。在南卡罗来纳州以及上周在内华达州的预选会上，黑人女性尤其支持她。
That reservoir of support will serve as the biggest roadblock to Mr. Sanders’s chances for a surge in the weeks ahead. Clinton advisers believe she will trounce Mr. Sanders in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Texas, Tennessee and Virginia, which have contests on Tuesday, and, in doing so, move even further ahead of him to capture the 2,383 delegates needed to clinch the Democratic nomination.
桑德斯要想在接下来的几周里领先，能否取得这个群体的支持将是最大的障碍。克林顿的顾问认为，她将于周二在阿拉巴马州、阿肯色州、乔治亚州、德克萨斯州、田纳西州和弗吉尼亚州大胜桑德斯，这些胜利又将进一步扩大她在代表人数上的领先优势。取得民主党提名需要争取到2383名代表的支持。