PHILADELPHIA — The Democratic National Convention kicks off at Wells Fargo Center on Monday, promising a “United Together” theme even as leaked emails from the Democratic National Committee forced the party’s chairwoman to resign. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will get a prime-time spot to push his platform, and Michelle Obama will lend a bit of White House glamour to the night.
费城——民主党全国代表大会周一在以富国银行冠名会议中心拉开序幕，会议的主题是“团结在一起”，尽管民主党全国委员会电子邮件的泄露已迫使该党的全国委员主席辞职。佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯将在当晚的一个黄金时段推动他的纲领，米歇尔·奥巴马也将为这个夜晚增添一点白宫的魅力。
The leaked emails threaten to undermine unity at the Democratic convention.
泄露的电子邮件对民主党全国代表大会上的全党统一构成威胁。
If there was one thing Hillary Clinton didn’t need as she prepared to accept her party’s presidential nomination this week, it was another email scandal.
希拉里·克林顿在为接受本党此周提名她成为总统候选人做准备时，如果说有一件没必要发生的事情的话，那就是又一个电子邮件丑闻。
But the release of about 20,000 leaked emails — which suggested the party had worked to undermine the Sanders campaign and forced Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the party’s chairwoman, to announce her resignation on Sunday — is likely to continue fueling resentment among many of Mr. Sanders’s delegates at the convention.
然而，约2万封被盗电子邮件的泄露，很可能会在出席大会的支持桑德斯的许多代表中，增添他们的不满。泄露的邮件暗示民主党曾试图破坏桑德斯的竞选活动，这迫使民主党全国委员会(简称DNC)主席黛比·沃瑟曼·舒尔茨于周日宣布辞职。
Mrs. Clinton’s campaign had hoped that the convention would showcase unity in the party after a bruising and divisive nomination contest whose outcome left many young and liberal Democrats less than satisfied. Instead, the emails — which reveal snarky, blunt criticism of Mr. Sanders by top Democratic National Committee officials — could amplify the frustration felt by his delegates about what they consider a rigged process.
克林顿夫人的竞选班子曾希望，在经历了党内艰巨的、引起分歧的提名人初选竞争之后，代表大会将展示全党的团结，初选的结果令许多年轻人和自由派民主党人不满意。然而，泄露的电子邮件揭示，民主党全国委员会的党内高层官员曾讽刺挖苦、并毫无掩饰地批评桑德斯，这可能会加大支持他的代表们对他们认为是被操控的初选过程的不满。
A large crowd of demonstrators expressed that frustration on Sunday in downtown Philadelphia, with chants of “hell, no, D.N.C., we won’t vote for Hillary.”
一大群示威者周日在费城市中心表达了这种不满，他们高呼着，“DNC去见鬼，让我们投票希拉里，没门。”
Sanders will get his last chance to push his agenda on the big stage.
桑德斯将在这个大舞台上获得推动自己日程的最后机会。
His supporters may not like it, but Mr. Sanders has acknowledged defeat and endorsed Mrs. Clinton. Even so, on Monday, he will get one last chance to push his agenda in front of an audience of millions.
虽然桑德斯的支持者们可能不喜欢，但他已经承认了失败，并已公开表示支持克林顿夫人。即管如此，他在周一仍将得到在数百万观众面前推动自己议程的最后一次机会。
In appearances on news programs on Sunday morning, Mr. Sanders made it clear that he will use his speech to continue pressing for an ideological revolution that advances party priorities like a higher minimum wage, government health care, breaking up big banks and rebuilding infrastructure.
桑德斯在周日上午的新闻节目中明确表示，他将利用发表演讲的机会，继续推动一场意识形态的革命，这场革命旨在把提高最低工资标准、全民医疗卫生服务、分解大银行，以及重建基础设施等议题推上共和党议事日程的优先地位。
“We have got to continue bringing people in, fighting for an agenda that works for working families and having the courage to take on the big-money people who today control our economic and political life,” he said on ABC’s “This Week.” Expect Mr. Sanders to have a similar message on Monday night.
桑德斯对美国广播公司的《本周》节目说：“我们必须继续让人们参与进来，为争取有益于工薪家庭的议事日程而奋斗，敢于挑战大资本的代言人，这些人如今在控制着我们的经济和政治生活。”预计桑德斯在周一晚上将传递类似的信息。
And though Mr. Sanders, who called for a broad overhaul of the party’s nominating process, was Mrs. Clinton’s chief rival during the primaries, his appearance at the convention is unlikely to produce controversy like that of Senator Ted Cruz at the Republican National Convention last week in Cleveland. Mr. Sanders has already been clear that he hopes Mrs. Clinton will win in November.
虽然桑德斯曾呼吁全面改革民主党的提名程序，并在初选期间是克林顿夫人的主要竞争对手，但他出席共和党全国代表大会不大可能会制造争议，比如参议员特德·克鲁兹上周在克利夫兰的共和党全国代表大会上制造的那种。桑德斯已经明确表示，他希望克林顿在11月的大选中获胜。
“Right now, we have got to defeat Trump; we have to elect Hillary Clinton,” he said on “This Week,” referring to the Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump.
“此刻，我们要做的事情是必须击败特朗普；我们必须要让希拉里·克林顿获胜，”他在《本周》节目中提到共和党总统候选人唐纳德·特朗普时说。
One last time: Michelle Obama begins the handoff from the Obama era.
最后一次：米歇尔·奥巴马为奥巴马时代开启交接班过程。
Mrs. Obama may cherish the idea of receding from the spotlight, but on Monday night she will make one last appearance on the big stage. Her speech will serve partly to begin the transition of the Democratic Party from her husband to Mrs. Clinton.
虽然奥巴马夫人也许会珍爱从聚光灯下引退的想法，但她将在周一晚的大舞台上最后一次亮相。她的演讲将成为民主党从她的丈夫向克林顿夫人过渡的开端。
Mrs. Obama, who remains among the most popular figures in the party, may be one of the most effective advocates for Mrs. Clinton when it comes to the Obama coalition: young people, African-Americans and Latinos. Her convention speech will be an opportunity to argue that her husband’s constituency should be Mrs. Clinton’s, as well.
作为民主党中仍最受人喜爱的人之一，奥巴马夫人也许是克林顿夫人最有效的支持者，特别是在奥巴马阵营中：年轻人、非洲裔和拉美裔美国人。她在大会的演讲中会提出论据表示，她丈夫的支持者也应该是克林顿夫人的支持者。
The first lady has championed children’s issues and healthy eating during her time in the White House, and it’s likely that her speech will focus on both. Less clear is how much Mrs. Obama will touch on the racial tensions that have gripped the country in the past several months after police shootings in several major cities. She has occasionally talked about race, most notably during a commencement speech in 2015 at Tuskegee University, a historically black college in Alabama.
她在白宫做第一夫人期间，一直倡导儿童问题和健康饮食，她的演讲很可能会关注这两个问题。奥巴马夫人的演讲在多大程度上会触及种族关系紧张问题尚不可知，几个城市发生了警察开枪打死人、以及枪袭警察事件后，种族问题几个月来一直在困扰着美国。奥巴马夫人曾在演讲中偶然提及种族问题，最引人注目的一次是2015年在阿拉巴马州历史上的黑人学院塔斯基吉大学。
Either way, Mrs. Obama will probably get a rousing response from conventiongoers, for many of whom the speech is likely to be the last time they see her in person.
无论如何，奥巴马夫人很可能会得到大会代表的热烈响应，对许多人来说，这次演讲很可能是他们最后一次亲身见到她。