WASHINGTON — Reduced to their weakest state in a generation, Democratic Party leaders will gather in two cities this weekend to plot strategy and select a new national chairman with the daunting task of rebuilding the party’s depleted organization. But senior Democratic officials concede that the blueprint has already been chosen for them — by an incensed army of liberals demanding no less than total war against President Donald Trump.
华盛顿——民主党现在处于二三十年来的最低潮，本周末，其领导人将聚集在两个城市，进行战略规划、选出新的全国主席，以及重建该党疲弱组织的艰巨任务。但是民主党高层承认，已经有人为他们选择了蓝图——一支愤怒的自由派大军要求他们向特朗普总统发起一场全面战争。
Immediately after the November election, Democrats were divided over how to handle Trump, with one camp favoring all-out confrontation and another backing a seemingly less risky approach of coaxing him to the center with offers of compromise.
去年11月的选举甫一结束，民主党人在如何应对特朗普的问题上就出现了分裂，其中一派赞成全面对抗，另一派支持一种看似风险较低的做法：做出一些妥协，把特朗普哄骗到中间立场上。
Now, spurred by protests and angry phone calls and emails from constituents — and outraged by Trump’s swift moves to enact a hard-line agenda — Democrats have all but cast aside any notion of conciliation with the White House. Instead, they are mimicking the Republican approach of the last eight years and wagering that brash obstruction will pay similar dividends.
现在，特朗普迅速采取行动，制定了一个强硬的议程，选民进行抗议、打来愤怒的电话、发来电邮，在这种刺激下，民主党人只能抛弃与白宫和解的想法。他们将要模仿过去八年共和党的做法，押注自以为是的蓄意阻挠，看看是不是可以获得类似的好处。
Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, vice chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, said there had been a “tornado of support” for wall-to-wall resistance to Trump. Inslee, who backed a lawsuit against the president’s executive order banning refugee admissions and travel from seven majority-Muslim countries, said Democrats intended to send a stern message to Trump during a conference of governors in the nation’s capital.
华盛顿州州长杰伊·英斯利(Jay Inslee)是民主党州长协会(Democratic Governors Association)的副主席，他说，目前有一股支持全面抵抗特朗普的“龙卷风”。在特朗普发布针对七个穆斯林占多数国家的旅行禁令以及难民收容禁令之后，英斯利曾支持对此提起诉讼，他说，民主党人打算在首都举行的州长会议上向特朗普发出严厉信息。
Some in the party fret that a posture of hostility to the president could imperil lawmakers in red states that Trump won last year, or compromise efforts for Democrats to present themselves to moderate voters as an inoffensive alternative to the polarizing president.
民主党有一些人担心，针对总统的敌对姿态可能会让特朗普去年取得胜利的红色州的议员陷入危险的境地，或者是损害一些民主党人的努力，他们面向中间选民打造了一种温和的形象，希望自己被看成是极端化的特朗普的替代选择。
Republicans control the White House and both chambers of Congress and 33 governorships, and they are preparing to install a fifth conservative, Neil Gorsuch, on the Supreme Court.
共和党人控制了白宫和国会两院以及33个州的州长位置，而且他们正准备把尼尔·戈萨奇(Neil Gorsuch)送进最高法院成为第五名保守派大法官。
Further, because of changes to Senate rules that were enacted under Democratic control, the party has been unable to block Trump’s Cabinet nominees from being confirmed by a simple majority vote.
此外，由于在民主党控制时期对参议院的规则进行了修改，该党现在也无法阻止特朗普的内阁提名人直接获得多数票确认。
Democrats have few instruments to wound Trump’s administration in the manner their core voters are demanding.
民主党几乎没有什么工具，可以像其核心选民所要求的那样去削弱特朗普政府。