As the first nominating contest approaches,Hillary Clinton's commanding lead nationally in the Democratic primary has largely melted away, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
根据《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)的最新民调，随着总统候选人提名的第一场角逐日益临近，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在民主党全国初选中的领先优势已经消失了绝大部分。
The tightened race between Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sandersof Vermont is revealing a sharp generational divide within the Democratic Party, with primary voters under 45 favoring Sanders by roughly 2-1.
克林顿和佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)之间的激烈竞争，揭示了民主党内部存在的尖锐代沟：45岁以下的初选选民中，约有三分之二支持桑德斯。
Yet more than 7 in 10 Democratic voters — including most supporters of Sanders — still believe Clinton will ultimately win the party's nomination. Voters expressed deeper confidence in her ability to be an effective commander in chief and more of her supporters say their minds are made up compared with Sanders' backers.
然而，超过70%的民主党选民——包括桑德斯的大多数支持者——仍然认为克林顿将最终赢得党内提名。对于能否成为一名卓有成效的统帅，选民们对克林顿表达了更强的信心；克林顿的支持者中，表示已经下定决心的也比桑德斯的支持者更多。
Overall, 48 percent of Democratic primary voters across the country support Clinton, while 41 percent back Sanders, the poll found.Just a month ago, she led Sanders by 20 percentage points nationally.
调查显示，总体而言，全国48%的民主党初选选民支持克林顿，而支持桑德斯的比例为41%。就在一个月前，她在全国还领先桑德斯20个百分点。
Sanders' shifting fortunes underscore the unsettled state of the presidential race in both parties with just three weeks before the Iowa caucuses. Previous contests have seen candidates rise and fall in the weeks before the first votes are cast, and national polls at this stage of the race are not necessarily predictive of the final outcome of the monthslong nominating battle. But Sanders' surge has clearly unnerved the Clinton campaign, and she is responding aggressively.
桑德斯的转运突显出，在距离艾奥瓦州党团会议还有三周的时间点，两党候选人提名角逐处于悬而未决的状态。在过去的角逐中，在第一次投票前候选人的支持率就曾起起落落，而在这一阶段竞选的全国民调，并不一定能预测数月之久的提名战的最后结果。但桑德斯飙升的支持率显然已让克林顿的竞选团队感到不安，而她正在极力应对。
Two state polls released Tuesdayfurther underscored the stiff competition that Clinton is facing from Sanders. A Quinnipiac University poll found Sanders rising in Iowa, and a survey by Monmouth University gave Sanders a double-digit lead in New Hampshire.
星期二公布的两州民调，进一步显示了克林顿正面临着桑德斯的激烈竞争。昆尼皮亚克大学(Quinnipiac University)的民调显示，桑德斯在艾奥瓦州的支持率正在上升，蒙莫斯大学(Monmouth University)的调查，显示桑德斯在新罕布什尔州有两位数的领先优势。
“I like Bernie's sincerity,” Dalton Paget, 27, an insurance agent from Spokane, Washington, said in a follow-up interview. “He's talking about working towards policies that he's been championing for a long time.”
“我喜欢伯尼的真诚，”27岁的道尔顿·佩吉特(Dalton Paget)在后续采访中说道，他是一名来自华盛顿州斯波坎的保险经纪人。“他表示要努力实现他长久以来一直倡导的各项政策。”
In particular, Paget cited Sanders' advocacy of overhauling the campaign finance system. “Honestly, before I heard much aboutBernie Sandersand realized he had a decent chance for winning, I might have supported Hillary,” he said.
具体而言，佩吉特提到了桑德斯彻底改革竞选财务制度的主张。“说实话，在我听到很多关于伯尼·桑德斯的消息，并认识到他有很大胜算之前，我可能会支持希拉里的，”他说。
Clinton is no longer treating Sanders as a distant rival who can be left unmentioned as she looks toward the general election. She is nowconfronting Sanders more forcefully, raising doubts about his electability and criticizing him as weak on the issue of gun violence.
克林顿不再将桑德斯视为一个遥远的对手，可以在为大选做准备期间不闻不问。她现在正以更大的力度对抗桑德斯，质疑他的候选资格，并批评他在枪支暴力方面的软弱。
In a rare issue on which she can challenge Sanders from the left, Clinton has repeatedlysought to highlight his votein 2005 for legislation that broadly shields gun manufacturers and dealers from liability lawsuits, portraying him as out of step with her and President Barack Obama. And on Monday, she proposed a tax surcharge on people who earn more than $5 million per year, exploiting an issue that has energized Sanders' supporters.
克林顿曾多次试图强调，桑德斯在2005年支持的一项立法，使枪支制造商和经销商，可以免于承担广泛的责任诉讼。她形容桑德斯与自己和奥巴马总统步调不一致。这是克林顿的立场比桑德斯更左的为数不多的问题之一。而周一，她提议对年收入500万美元以上的人征收附加税，抓住了一个受到桑德斯的支持者密切关注的问题。
There is less apparent movement in the Republican contest, whereDonald J. Trumpmaintains a sizable lead among Republican primary voters nationally. Thirty-six percent of them support him, compared with 19 percent for Sen. Ted Cruzof Texas, and 12 percent for Sen. Marco Rubioof Florida. Trump's support is roughly the same as it was a month ago.
目前共和党内部的较量还没有太明显的变化，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在共和党初选选民中保持了相当大的领先优势。选民中有36%支持特朗普，有19%支持德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)，有12%支持佛罗里达州参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)。特朗普的支持率同一个月前大致相同。
Only about a third of Republican primary voters who back a candidate say their minds are made up. But most Trump supporters — 52 percent — say they have decided. A narrow majority of Republican primary voters say they expect Trump to be the party's nominee, similar to the finding of last month's poll.
支持某位候选人的共和党初选选民中，只有大约三分之一表示已做出了决定。但是，特朗普的多数支持者（有52%）表示，已经下定了决心。共和党初选选民中稍占多数的人表示，他们预期特朗普会成为该党提名的总统候选人，这与上个月民意调查的结果持平。
Trump and Cruz run closely among very conservative voters, but Trump now leads among evangelicals 42 to 25 percent.
特朗普和克鲁兹在非常保守的选民之中的支持率很接近，但特朗普目前在福音派选民中的支持率(42%)领先于克鲁兹(25%)。
“I think he's going to try to do what's best for the working man,” said Kevin Jarrell, 41, from Proctorville, Ohio, who said he was an evangelical Christian. “He's got money so he's not going to try to do what's best for him. He's going to try his best to create jobs and he's going to shut out the refugees.”
“我认为他会努力去做对工人最有利的事情，”41岁凯文·贾雷尔(Kevin Jarrell)说。他来自俄亥俄州普罗克托维尔，说自己是福音派基督徒。“他很有钱，所以他不会试图做最能让自己获益的事。他会尽其所能创造就业机会，还会将难民拒之门外。”
But Trump trails his top two rivals on whether he possesses the right kind of temperament and personality to be a good president. Half of Republican primary voters say he does, while about two-thirds say so of Cruz and Rubio.
但在一个问题上，特朗普落后于他的两大竞争对手，即是否具备成为好总统的特质和个性。共和党初选选民中，有一半表示他有；而认为克鲁兹和卢比奥具有这些特质的选民，约有三分之二。
The poll also offered the latest evidence of the continuing free fall of Ben Carson. He is backed by just 6 percent of Republican primary voters in the latest poll, down from 13 percent a month ago and26 percent in late October, when he topped the Republican field.
调查还提供了最新的证据，显示本·卡森(Ben Carson)支持率不断大幅下滑。最新民调显示，他只获得了6%的共和党初选选民的支持，比一个月前的13%和10月下旬的26%有大幅下滑，当时他在共和党候选人中处于领先地位。
About as many Democratic primary voters say Sanders shares their values as say Clinton does. But Clinton, who served as secretary of state in Obama's administration, holds an edge in an important area: Some Democratic voters seem to have an easier time envisioning her in the White House.
在民主党初选选民中，认为桑德斯和自己价值观一致的人，与如此认为克林顿的人一样多。但是，曾在奥巴马政府担任国务卿的克林顿，在一个重要的方面具有优势：一些民主党选民似乎更容易设想她入主白宫的景象。
More than 4 in 10 say they are very confident in her ability to be an effective commander in chief of the nation's military, compared with just over 2 in 10 who are very confident in Sanders' ability.
超过40%的人表示，他们非常有信心她作为军队统帅，能做到卓有成效；而关于这种能力，对桑德斯很有信心的人刚刚超过20%。
“As far as commander in chief goes, she's been there, she knows what's been going on, and she would be effective,” said Leona H. Alford, 81, a retiree from Brown Deer, Wisconsin, who worked in social services.
“说到军队统帅这回事，她亲身经历过，知道是怎么回事，因此将会非常卓有成效，”81岁的利昂娜·H·奥尔福德(Leona H. Alford)说。她是威斯康星州棕鹿城的一位退休人员，曾在社会服务机构工作过。
Likewise, about 8 in 10 Democratic primary voters say Clinton has the right kind of temperament and personality to be a good president, compared with two-thirds who say Sanders does.
同样地，大约80%的民主党初选选民表示，克林顿有成为一名好总统的特质和个性，而如此形容桑德斯的人只有三分之二。
The national Times/CBS News poll, conducted Jan. 7-10 on cellphones and landlines, included 442 Republican primary voters and 389 Democratic primary voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 6 points for both Democratic and Republican primary voters.
时报和CBS新闻的民调是在1月7日至10日期间，通过手机和固定电话面向全国展开的，受访者包括442名共和党初选选民和389名民主党初选选民。民主党和共和党初选选民的抽样误差区间皆为正负6个百分点。