PHILADELPHIA — Democrats formally nominated Hillary Clinton for president on Tuesday, looking to move beyond the lingering anger that has brought protests and dissension to their convention as they unite behind the first female candidate to represent a major American political party.
费城——民主党人周二正式提名希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)为总统候选人，希望把在民主党全国大会上引发了抗议与争执的残余愤怒情绪抛诸脑后，团结在首位代表美国主要政党的女性候选人身后。
Mrs. Clinton officially became the party’s standard-bearer in a roll-call vote of delegates on the floor of the convention. During the voting, Senator Bernie Sanders, who rallied millions of voters to his side in his battle against Mrs. Clinton, could be seen tearing up with his wife, Jane, sitting by his side.
代表们在会场举行了唱名表决，使得克林顿正式成为该党的领袖。在投票过程中，能看到曾在与克林顿的对阵中争取到数百万选民的参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)和坐在身旁的妻子简(Jane)眼里噙着泪水。
The crowd erupted in cheers when South Dakota’s delegates cast their votes, putting Mrs. Clinton over the threshold for the nomination.
南达科他州的代表投出自己的选票，使克林顿跨越获得提名所需的人数门槛。此时，人群爆发出了欢呼声。
The voting ended with a symbolic flourish, with the delegation from Mr. Sanders’s home state of Vermont moving to make the Clinton nomination unanimous by acclamation.
投票以颇具象征性的夸张形式结束，来自桑德斯家乡佛蒙特州的代表团以口头表决的形式，让克林顿的提名获得了党内一致同意。
After the Vermont delegation announced its tally, Mr. Sanders stood, took the microphone and received a long ovation before he said: “I move that all votes, all votes cast by delegates be reflected in the official record and I move that Hillary Clinton be selected as the nominee of the Democratic Party for president of the United States.”
佛蒙特州代表团宣布了自己的表决结果后，桑德斯站了起来，拿起话筒，周围响起了长时间的热烈掌声。过了片刻，他说：“我提议将所有选票，代表们投出的所有选票，列入正式记录，我提议选择希拉里·克林顿作为民主党的美国总统提名人选。”
Despite the show of unity, there were signs on Tuesday that the discord that marked the first two days of the convention could persist.
尽管表现出了团结，但周二当天仍有迹象表明，大会头两天出现的那种不和谐音可能会持续下去。
Some delegations from states that supported Mr. Sanders planned walk-outs after the roll call was complete.
支持桑德斯的一些州的部分代表计划在唱名表决结束后退场。
Mr. Sanders again faced boos on Tuesday morning as his restive supporters continued to protest his efforts to persuade them that voting for Mrs. Clinton was the best way to defeat Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee.
周二上午，桑德斯再次遭遇嘘声。躁动不安的支持者继续抗议他的举动：桑德斯努力劝说他们，把票投给克林顿是打败共和党提名人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的最好办法。
After making the rounds at several breakfasts, Mr. Sanders was met with a loud chorus of jeers from members of the California delegation. The backlash started immediately, with many people in the audience giving Mr. Sanders a thumbs-down sign. But Mr. Sanders was quick to quiet the crowd and chide them for their response.
结束了在多场早餐会之间的赶场后，桑德斯受到了加利福尼亚州代表团部分成员一阵大声的起哄。听众一开始就做出了强烈的反应，他们中的很多人向桑德斯比出了拇指朝下的手势。但桑德斯很快便让人群安静了下来，并对他们的反应提出了指责。
“It is easy to boo,” he said. “But it is harder to look your kids in the face who would be living under a Donald Trump presidency.”
“喝倒彩容易，”他说，“但看着孩子的脸庞，想象他们可能会生活在唐纳德·特朗普当总统的时代就难多了。”
That seemed to silence most of the audience as he finished his brief remarks. Mr. Sanders insisted that supporting the Democratic ticket this year did not mean giving up on the goals of his campaign.
他发表完简短的讲话后，大部分听众似乎沉默了。桑德斯坚持认为，支持民主党今年的提名组合并不代表放弃了他竞选的目标。
“What the political revolution means is we keep going,” he said. “We think big, not small. We have the guts to take on the billionaire class.”
“政治革命的含义是我们继续前进，”他说。“我们有大局思维，不拘泥于小节。我们有勇气对抗巨富阶层。”
At one point during the breakfast with California delegates, a couple of dozen aggressive Sanders supporters burst into loud chanting as Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California, took the stage. Several protesters rushed the stage with signs, trying to block the cameras.
在他与加利福尼亚州的代表共进早餐期间，当该州的民主党众议员哈维尔·贝塞拉(Xavier Becerra)上台时，桑德斯的20几名激进支持者开始高喊口号。几名抗议者举着牌子冲向讲台，试图遮挡摄像头。
The chants continued even as some Clinton supporters chanted “Hillary! Hillary!” to try to drown out the Sanders supporters. A fight almost broke out when a Sanders activist started screaming that he had been kicked by a woman supporting Mrs. Clinton.
口号声持续不断，与此同时，克林顿的一些支持者也高喊“希拉里！希拉里！”，试图盖过桑德斯支持者的声音。当一名支持桑德斯的积极分子开始尖叫，宣称自己被一名支持克林顿的女子踢到时，口角一触即发。
Asked later, several Sanders supporters said they had no idea who was on stage speaking. One woman said she was upset that Mr. Becerra had supported Mrs. Clinton even though his district had voted for Mr. Sanders. Mr. Becerra’s district encompasses downtown Los Angeles and much of heavily Latino East Los Angeles.
事后被问起时，桑德斯的几名支持者说他们并不知道当时在台上讲话的是谁。一名女子称，她生气的是尽管贝塞拉的选区把票投给了桑德斯，他自己却支持克林顿。贝赛拉的选区包括洛杉矶下城和拉美裔占很大比例的东洛杉矶大片地区。
Even after Mr. Sanders had left the California delegation gathering, a group of people inside the ballroom at the Marriott interrupted the speakers by chanting “Bernie! Bernie!” One person waved a sign demanding an end to the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.
即便在桑德斯离开加利福尼亚州代表团在万豪举行的聚会后，大厅里的一群人仍反复喊着“伯尼！伯尼！”，打断发言人的讲话。还有一人挥舞着一个牌子，要求终止跨太平洋伙伴关系协定(Trans Pacific Partnership)。
Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Sanders spoke to delegates from Wisconsin, Montana and Alaska. There, Mr. Sanders was met with tense silence when he tried to make the case for Mrs. Clinton. He started by calling Mr. Trump “the worst, least-prepared candidate for president in my lifetime,” then went on to make his pitch.
周二早些时候，桑德斯向来自威斯康星、蒙大拿和阿拉斯加的代表发表了讲话。当他试图陈述支持克林顿的理由时，听众报以沉默，现场气氛紧张。他开门见山地称特朗普是“我一生中见过的最差劲、准备最不充分的总统候选人”，然后开始宣传自己的观点。
“We have got to obviously elect Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Sanders said, as many in the room sat quietly.
“我们显然必须选希拉里·克林顿，”桑德斯说。屋里的很多人只是静静地坐着。
He then quickly went on to deliver a line that roused the crowd, saying that his supporters must “stay focused on our issues and force every level of government to represent working people.”
他很快又说了另一席话，称他的支持者必须“继续专注于我们的议题，敦促各级政府代表工薪阶层”。这番话激起了人群的兴趣。
Even as resistance persisted, Mr. Sanders expressed optimism that his supporters would eventually come around while empathizing with their feelings of disappointment.
尽管仍存在抗拒，但桑德斯对他的支持者最终会转变态度持乐观态度，同时也理解他们的失望之情。
“Democracy is a little bit messy sometimes, especially for young people who work their hearts out,” Mr. Sanders said at a breakfast sponsored by Bloomberg Politics. “They worked against Hillary Clinton and now we’re saying, We want you on board to support Hillary Clinton.’ ”
“民主有时候会有一点糟糕，特别是对尽心竭力的年轻人来说，”桑德斯在《彭博政治》(Bloomberg Politics)赞助的一次早餐活动上说。“之前，他们致力于反对希拉里·克林顿，现在我们却说，我们希望你们一起支持希拉里·克林顿。”
He asked his enthusiasts to “treat the process with respect,” but did not hesitate when asked about his message to the Sanders delegates going into Tuesday’s roll-call vote.
他请求热情支持自己的人“尊重程序”，但被问及有什么话要对即将参加周二唱名表决的支持者说时，他毫不犹豫。
“Vote for me!” he said, boasting of the total number of delegates he expected to receive.
“投给我！”他说，并自豪地谈起他预计会得到的代表总数。
In a quieter voice, he added that he hoped his supporters would return home from the convention and support Mrs. Clinton and the Democratic ticket.
接着，他用更平静的声音说，希望自己的支持者参加完大会回到家乡时，能支持克林顿和民主党的竞选组合。
On the convention floor on Tuesday, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. — in a walk-through before his scheduled speech on Wednesday night before all the delegates — said that the Sanders delegates already had a huge impact on the Democratic Party.
周二，在民主党全国大会的会场，副总统约小瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在排练时表示，支持桑德斯的代表已经对民主党产生了巨大的影响。根据安排，拜登将于周三晚间面向全体代表发表讲话。
“Bernie did more to change the party than the party did to change him,” he said. “The Sanders delegates worked hard. They did more to change the attitude of the party than anyone in a long time.”
“伯尼对民主党做出的变革，超过民主党对他做出的改变，”他说。“支持桑德斯的代表很努力。在转变民主党的态度上，他们在很长时间里都无人可以匹敌。”
The second night of the convention will feature speeches by former President Bill Clinton, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and the actress Lena Dunham.
在大会的第二个晚上，前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)、前国务卿玛德琳·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine Albright)和女演员莉娜·杜哈姆(Lena Dunham)的演讲是重头戏。