A billionaire retired investor is forging plans to spend as much as $100 million during the 2014 election, seeking to pressure federal and state officials to enact climate change measures through a hard-edge campaign of attack ads against governors and lawmakers.
一名身家亿万的退休投资者正在制定计划，准备在2014年选举期间花费1亿美元（约合6.06亿元人民币），以求用攻击性广告发起针对州长和议员的强硬宣传运动，迫使联邦官员和各州官员制定应对气候变化的举措。
The donor, Tom Steyer, a Democrat who founded one of the world’s most successful hedge funds, burst onto the national political scene during last year’s elections, when he spent $11 million to help elect Terry McAuliffe governor of Virginia and millions more intervening in a Democratic congressional primary in Massachusetts. Now he is rallying other deep-pocketed donors, seeking to build a war chest that would make his political organization, NextGen Climate Action, among the largest outside groups in the country, similar in scale to the conservative political network overseen by the Koch brothers, Charles and David.
前述捐赠者是民主党人托马斯·斯蒂尔(Thomas Steyer)，曾创建世界上最成功的对冲基金，并在去年的选举中闯入了国家政治舞台，当时他出资1100万美元帮助特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)当选弗吉尼亚州州长，还投入数百万美元干预马萨诸塞州的民主党国会初选。如今，他正在召集其他一些财力雄厚的捐赠者，希望设立专项资金，使他的政治组织下一代气候行动组织(NextGen Climate Action)达到与科氏兄弟( Koch brothers)——查尔斯(Charles)和戴维(David)——掌管的保守派政治网络类似的规模。他这个组织是美国最大的外围组织之一。
In early February, Mr. Steyer gathered two dozen of the country’s leading liberal donors and environmental philanthropists to his 1,800-acre ranch in Pescadero, Calif. — which raises prime grass-fed beef — to ask them to join his efforts. People involved in the discussions say Mr. Steyer is seeking to raise $50 million from other donors to match $50 million of his own.
2月初，斯蒂尔将20多名主要的自由派捐赠者和环保慈善家请到了他的牧场，请求他们加入计划。牧场位于加利福尼亚州佩斯卡德罗，面积1800英亩（约合729公顷），主要饲养食草肉牛。参加那次讨论的人士表示，斯蒂尔希望从其他捐赠者那里筹集5000万美元，他自己再出资5000万美元。
The money would move through Mr. Steyer’s fast-growing, San Francisco-based political apparatus into select 2014 races. Targets include the governor’s race in Florida, where the incumbent, Rick Scott, a first-term Republican, has said he does not believe that science has established that climate change is man-made. Mr. Steyer’s group is also looking at the Senate race in Iowa, in the hope that a win for the Democratic candidate, Representative Bruce Braley, an outspoken proponent of measures to limit climate change, could help shape the 2016 presidential nominating contests.
这笔资金会通过斯蒂尔的政治机构投入2014年的一些竞选活动。他的政治机构总部位于旧金山，正在快速增长。干预目标包括佛罗里达州的州长竞选，共和党人、处于第一任期的现任州长里基·斯考特(Rick Scott)曾表示，他认为科学还没有证实气候变化是人类活动造成的。斯蒂尔的组织也在关注艾奥瓦州的参议员竞选，并且希望民主党候选人布鲁斯·布雷利(Bruce Braley)取胜，能在一定程度上影响2016年的总统提名角逐。布雷利众议员直言不讳地支持限制气候变化的举措。
But the newest wave of single-issue super PACs — including groups seeking greater regulation of guns and of campaign fund-raising — has drawn criticism even from those who share those priorities.
不过，关注单一议题的超级政治行动委员会(super PACs)——包括那些寻求严管枪支和竞选筹款的组织蓬勃兴起，这一最新浪潮甚至招致了那些心有戚戚的人的批评。
“A small number of the richest individuals in America are attempting to use their enormous wealth to purchase government decisions to advance their own personal interests,” said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a group that favors tighter limits on money in politics. “This is about as far away as we can get from ‘representative government.’ ”
“在美国，有少数顶级富豪试图利用自己的巨额财富来购买政府决策，以便增加自己的个人利益，”提倡严管金钱干政的组织民主21(Democracy 21)的负责人弗雷德·韦尔泰梅(Fred Wertheimer)说。“这与‘代议政府’的意义南辕北辙。”
Mr. Steyer poured tens of millions of dollars into a successful 2012 ballot initiative in California that eliminated a loophole in the state’s corporate income tax and dedicated some of the resulting revenue to clean-energy projects. He also has helped finance opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline, appearing in a series of self-funded 90-second ads seeking to stop the project.
斯蒂尔曾投入数千万美元，帮助2012年的一项加利福尼亚州选票提案(ballot initiative)获得通过，该提案堵住了该州公司所得税中的一个漏洞，并将由此而来的部分收入投入了清洁能源项目。他还曾为反对Keystone XL输油管道项目的活动提供资助，现身由自己出资拍摄的90秒广告，希望阻止这个项目。
Those efforts cemented his partnership with Chris Lehane, a California-based Democratic strategist, and heralded the emergence of NextGen Climate, now a 20-person operation encompassing a super PAC, a research organization and a political advocacy nonprofit. The group employs polling, research and social media to find climate-sensitive voters and spends millions of dollars in television advertising to try to persuade them.
这些工作加强了他与驻加州民主党战略师克里斯·勒汉(Chris Lehane)的合作关系，还预示了下一代气候组织(NextGen Climate)的出现。下一代气候组织目前是一个由20人组成的行动小组，其中包括一个超级政治行动委员会、一个研究机构和一个从事政治宣传的非营利机构。该组织通过投票、调查和社交媒体寻找关注气候的选民，并花费数百万美元来做电视广告，希望能说服他们。
It already is among the biggest environmental pressure groups in the country: For example, the League of Conservation Voters, considered the most election-oriented of such groups, reported spending about $15 million on campaign ads in 2012. And while Mr. Steyer has been critical of Democrats who waver on climate issues, he has aimed most of his firepower so far at Republicans.
它已经跻身美国最大的环境压力组织之列：例如，被视作此类组织中选举导向最强的保守选民联盟(League of Conservation Voters)报道称，2012年，他们为竞选广告投资了1500万美元左右。虽然斯蒂尔对在气候问题上摇摆不定的民主党人持批判态度，但他迄今为止的主要攻击对象却仍是共和党人。
The new fund-raising push seeks to tap into the booming fortunes of Silicon Valley, where many donors rank climate change as their top political issue. It also signals a shift within the environmental movement, as donors — frustrated that neither Democratic nor Republican officials are willing to prioritize climate change measures — shift their money from philanthropy and education into campaign vehicles designed to win elections.
前述新的筹资举措希望能对迅速增加的硅谷财富加以利用，因为硅谷的很多捐赠者都认为，气候变化是他们的首要政治议题。它还表明了环保运动中的一个转变，即捐赠者因为民主党和共和党官员都不愿意把应对气候变化的措施放在首位而感到沮丧，正在把他们的资金从慈善和教育事业移向竞选工具，这些工具的功能是赢得选举。
David Topper, a New York private equity investor who attended the meeting at Mr. Steyer’s ranch, said: “You need to be agnostic as to party. If I find someone who has the right position on climate change, do I care if he owns six guns? Not at all.”
纽约私人股本投资者戴维·托佩尔(David Topper)也参与了在斯蒂尔的牧场上举行的会议。他说：“对于党派，你应该不拘泥于信仰。如果我找到了对气候变化持正确立场的人，我会在意他是否拥有六支枪吗？根本不会。”
Unlike some on the left, Mr. Steyer has embraced the political toolbox that was opened to wealthy donors and other interests in the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, which made it easier for businesses, unions and rich individuals to pour unlimited money into elections.
与一些左派人士不同，斯蒂尔接受了向富裕捐赠者和最高法院(Supreme Court)“联合公民”(Citizens United)决定中的其他利益团体开放的政治工具，该决定简化了企业、组织和富裕个人向选举无限制注资的程序。
“We have a democratic system, there are parts we would want to reform or change, and Citizens United is prominent in that,” Mr. Steyer said. “But we’ve accepted the world as it is.”
“我们拥有一个民主体系，其中的有些部分是我们想改革或改变的，尤其是‘联合公民’，”斯蒂尔说。“但我们已经接受了这个世界的现实。”
Mr. Steyer said there was no fixed budget for his group and declined to confirm his fund-raising target.
斯蒂尔说他的组织没有固定的预算，并且拒绝确认他的筹资目标。
“Is it going to take $100 million? I have no idea,” he said, before suggesting that might be a lowball number. “I think that would be a really cheap price to answer the generational challenge of the world.”
“用得了1亿美元吗？我不知道，”他说，随后又暗示这个数目可能偏低。“我认为，要是能应对全世界在这个世代面临的挑战，这个价钱真是太便宜了。”