PHILADELPHIA — Anger and frustration reigned on the first day of the Democratic National Convention, as a divided party grappled Monday with fallout from a email leak that showed its officials trying to ease Hillary Clinton’s path to the presidency while plotting to undermine Sen. Bernie Sanders, her rival for the nomination.
费城——周一，内部存在分歧的民主党努力应对一起电子邮件泄露事件造成的后果，民主党全国大会的第一天充斥着愤怒和不满情绪。这些电子邮件显示，民主党官员暗中策划削弱同希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)争夺提名的参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，试图为她铺平总统之路。
Democrats were supposed to be forging a unified front to take on Donald Trump this week, but instead more than 1,000 supporters of Sanders took to the scalding streets of Philadelphia to vent their frustration, some adopting a Republican rallying cry about Clinton: “Lock her up!”
民主党人本应在本周结成统一战线，对抗唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)，但现实情况却是，逾千名桑德斯的支持者不顾烈日走上街头，发泄他们的不满。一些人喊出了共和党的一句有关克林顿的集结口号：“把她关起来！”
Others jeered Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the outgoing party chairwoman, as she gave a speech to Florida delegates. And they even booed Sanders himself as he encouraged them back Clinton.
其他一些人在即将卸任的民主党主席黛比·沃瑟曼·舒尔茨(Debbie Wasserman Schultz)面向佛罗里达州的代表发表演讲时，对她起哄。他们甚至在桑德斯本人鼓励他们支持克林顿时，对他发出了嘘声。
The convention was called to order Monday afternoon, and nearly every mention of Clinton brought a smattering of cheers and boos, but so far, it did not match the messy, more organized floor fight that greeted the opening of the Republican convention a week before.
周一下午，与会者被要求肃静。几乎每次提到克林顿都会引来少许欢呼和嘘声，但迄今为止，民主党大会并不像一周前的共和党全国大会那样，一开幕会场便出现了更有组织的喧嚣争吵。
Perhaps none were more divided — or loud — as the California delegation. Delegates waved “Nay!” signs and actively booed every mention of her, while those seated on either side cheered back, waving Hillary buttons and chanting “Hill-a-ry!”
加利福尼亚州代表团或许是分歧最严重的——或者说声音最大的。有代表挥舞着“不！”的牌子，每次听到克林顿的名字时都积极地发出嘘声，而坐在两边的人则会发出喝彩声作为回应，同时挥舞着希拉里徽章，嘴里反复喊着“希-拉-里！”
“I’m going to boo, and I’m going to do it for the next four days,” said Jody Feldman, 62, of Sacramento, a lifelong Democrat.
“我会嘘她，而且接下来四天都会这么做，”来自萨克拉门托的62岁资深民主党人乔迪·费尔德曼(Jody Feldman)说。
But Sanders issued a statement Monday afternoon warning his delegates against “booing, turning our backs, walking out or similar displays” because “that’s what Mr. Trump wants.”
不过，周一下午，桑德斯发布了一份声明，告诫支持他的代表不要“喝倒彩、背弃自己人、退场或做出类似的表现”，因为“那正是特朗普想要的结果”。
Hopes that Wasserman Schultz’s decision on Sunday afternoon to resign would calm nerves were dashed as the Florida congresswoman publicly addressed her state delegation at a breakfast Monday morning. For those who believed for months that she was rigging the nominating fight, nothing would be forgiven so quickly.
一些人本以为沃瑟曼·舒尔茨周日下午做出的辞职决定会安抚人心。但周一早上，当这名来自佛罗里达州的众议员在早餐会上面向自己州的代表团发表公开讲话时，他们的愿望落空了。那些几个月来一直认为是她在暗箱操纵提名大战的人，是不会轻易原谅任何事的。
Protesters at her address, wearing Sanders T-shirts and buttons, stood and held signs that read “E-MAILS” and “We Don’t Want Cheaters In Our Party Anyway.”
在她的演讲现场，身穿桑德斯T恤并戴着桑德斯徽章的抗议者一直站着，举着标语牌，上面写着“电子邮件”和“我们绝不想要党内有骗子”。
They booed, loudly, and screamed “fair elections” as Wasserman Schultz took the lectern and said: “It is so wonderful to be able to be here with my home state. All right everybody now, settle down. Everybody settle down, please.”
他们发出巨大的嘘声，并高喊“公平选举”，看着沃瑟曼·舒尔茨走上讲台并说：“非常高兴能站在这里，和家乡的代表在一起。好了，大家现在都坐下来。请大家都坐下。”
They refused.
他们拒绝了她的请求。
Sanders, who has vowed to do whatever it takes to stop Trump from winning in November, had little luck trying to make the case to his followers that they should vote for Clinton. In a rare display of rebellion at a gathering of his delegates, the Vermont senator was drowned out by boos when he mentioned the name of the presumptive Democratic nominee.
桑德斯承诺不惜一切代价阻止特朗普在11月获胜，却几乎没机会向自己的支持者证明，他们应该投给克林顿。在支持他的代表举行的一场聚会上，这位来自佛蒙特州的参议员罕见地遭到了反对。在提到稳获民主党提名的克林顿的名字时，他的声音被嘘声淹没了。
“We have got to defeat Donald Trump and we have got to elect Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine,” Sanders said to a round of jeers.
“我们必须打败唐纳德·特朗普，必须选择希拉里·克林顿和蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)，”桑德斯的话引发了一阵起哄。
Over chants of “we want Bernie,” he added: “This is a real world we live in. Trump is a bully and a demagogue.”
在“我们要选伯尼”的口号中，他接着说：“这是我们所生活的现实世界。特朗普是恶霸，是煽动者。”
The dissension comes as Democrats are facing an increasingly tough challenge from Trump, the Republican nominee. A national poll from CNN/ORC released on Monday showed Trump receiving a big bounce from his convention, leading Clinton 44 percent to 39 percent in a four-way race including Gary Johnson and Jill Stein, the Libertarian and Green Party candidates.
这场纷争出现时，民主党正面临着共和党提名人特朗普发起的日渐严峻的挑战。CNN/ORC周一公布的一项全美民调结果显示，共和党全国大会过后，特朗普的支持率大幅反弹，在包括自由意志党候选人加里·约翰逊(Gary Johnson)和绿党候选人吉尔·斯坦(Jill Stein)在内的四人竞争中，以44%的支持率领先于克林顿的39%。
Richard Ross Jr., the head of the Police Department, estimated that about 1,500 people marched, and around 5 p.m. roughly 30 people were arrested after they tried to breach the barriers outside the Wells Fargo Center, where the convention was getting underway.
费城警察局局长小理查德·罗斯(Richard Ross Jr.)估计大约有1500人参加了游行，并表示下午5点左右，大约30人因试图突破会议举办地富国银行中心(Wells Fargo Center)外面的障碍物而被捕。