In his remarks on the murder of James Foley, the American journalist decapitated by the terrorists of ISIS, President Obama condemned Foley’s killers, appropriately, as a “cancer” on the Middle East and the world. But he also found room for the most Obama-ish of condemnations: “One thing we can all agree on,” he insisted, is that the would-be caliphate’s murderous vision has “no place in the 21st century.”
在谈到被ISIS恐怖分子斩首的美国记者詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)时，美国总统奥巴马恰如其分地谴责了杀害弗利的人，称他们是中东和世界的“毒瘤”。但他也在同一段讲话中，使用了极富有奥巴马特色的谴责说法。他坚定地说，“有一点我们都能认同”，建立哈里发国的残暴愿景“在21世纪没有立足之地”。
The idea that America’s foes and rivals are not merely morally but chronologically deficient, confused time travelers who need to turn their DeLorean around, has long been a staple of this administration’s rhetoric. Vladimir Putin, Bashar al-Assad and tyrants in general have been condemned, in varying contexts, for being on the dreaded “wrong side of history.” Earlier this year, John Kerry dismissed Putin’s Crimea adventure in the same language Obama used last week: “19th-century behavior in the 21st century,” foredoomed by its own anachronism.
这种论调早已成为了本届政府的老生常谈。它认为，美国的敌人和对手无论是在道义上，还是在时代背景上都站不住脚，他们仿佛是不明就里地穿越到了这个时代，需要把自己的德罗宁(DeLorean)汽车掉个头。弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)、巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)，以及泛泛而言的其他暴君，都曾被谴责，卑劣地“站在了历史的错误一面”，尽管具体情况各有不同。今年早些时候，在批评普京在克里米亚的冒险时，约翰·克里(John Kerry)的腔调和奥巴马上周的讲话如出一辙：“这是19世纪的举动，如今已经是21世纪”，它的时代错误注定了它会失败。
These tropes contain a lot of foolishness. Where ISIS is concerned, though, they also include a small but crucial grain of truth.
这些说法中含有许多荒谬之处。但是，在涉及ISIS时，也含有一点重要的真相。
The foolishness starts with the fact that the history of liberal democracy is actually inseparable, as Abram Shulsky writes in The American Interest, from “the constant appearance of counter-ideologies that have arisen in reaction against it.” Whether reactionary or utopian, secular or religious, these counter-ideologies are as modern, in their way, as the Emancipation Proclamation or the United Nations Charter. Both illiberal nationalism and Islamic fundamentalism are younger than the United States. They aren’t just throwbacks or relics; they’re counterforces that liberal modernity seems to inevitably conjure up.
荒谬首先体现在这样一个事实之中：自由民主的历史，与“对立意识形态的不断出现”其实是分不开的，这些对立意识形态“的产生，是对自由民主的反动”，艾布拉姆·舒尔基(Abram Shulsky)在《美国利益》(The American Interest)中写道。无论是保守式的还是乌托邦式的，世俗的还是宗教的，这些反意识形态都以各自的方式具有现代性，就像《解放奴隶宣言》(Emancipation Proclamation)或《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)一样现代。狭隘民族主义和伊斯兰原教旨主义的诞生，都晚于美国的成立。它们不是返祖现象或历史文物，而是自由主义现代性催生出的反作用力，它们的产生似乎是不可避免的。
So writing off the West’s challengers as purely atavistic is a good way to misunderstand them — and to miss the persistent features of human nature that they exploit, appeal to and reward.
所以将这些挑战西方的人不以为意地单纯形容为返祖，很容易让人们对他们产生误解——并让人忽视他们在人性中所利用、唤起、回馈的持久的特质。
These features include not only the lust for violence and the will to power, but also a yearning for a transcendent cause that liberal societies can have trouble satisfying.
这些特质不仅包括使用暴力的欲望、获取权力的意图，也包括投身于一项卓越事业的渴望，自由的社会可能难以满足这种渴望。
As The Week’s Michael Brendan Dougherty argues, discussing the Europeans who have joined up with ISIS, liberalism’s “all-too-human order” — which privileges the sober, industrious and slightly boring — is simply “not for everyone.” Nor, most likely, will it ever be: in this century, the 22nd, or beyond.
正如《一周》杂志(The Week)的迈克尔·布伦丹·多尔蒂(Michael Brendan Dougherty)所说，在谈到那些加入ISIS的欧洲人时，自由主义“过于人性的秩序”——它向那些理智、勤劳、略显乏味的人赋予了特权——根本“不适合所有人”。很有可能永远都是如此，无论是本世​​纪、22世纪还是更远的未来。
Which is why liberalism’s current dominance is contingent rather than necessary, and why its past victories have often been rather near-run things. The arc of history, another favored Obama phrase, has at times bent toward pogroms and chattel slavery, totalitarianism and genocide, nuclear annihilation. (For the Middle East’s persecuted Christians and Yazidis, it bends toward annihilation even now.) The ideals of democracy and human rights are ascendant in our age, but their advance still depends on agency, strategy and self-sacrifice, no matter what date the calendar displays.
所以说，自由主义目前占据主导地位是偶然事件，而不是必然事件，以往的胜利其实常常也只是险胜。奥巴马喜欢说的另一个词组“历史轨迹”，时不时会走向大屠杀、奴隶制、极权主义、种族灭绝，甚至核毁灭。（对于中东遭受迫害的基督徒和雅兹迪人来说，现在它就是在朝毁灭的方向偏转。）民主和人权的理想是在我们这个时代高举起来的，但它们的进步仍然取决于我们的主动性、策略和自我牺牲，无论现在日历上显示的日期是哪一天。
And yet: Despite perpetuating various comforting fallacies, the White House’s talk of history’s favorites does hint at an important point about the key weakness of the enemies we face right now.
但是：尽管延续了让人宽慰的逻辑谬误，但是白宫在谈论历史偏爱哪一边时，确实也暗示了，我们现在面对的敌人存在一个重大弱点。
That’s because even if history doesn’t actually take sides, many people the world over share President Obama’s impulses: They want to feel that it sides with them. So the most successful counterideologies, the most threatening of liberalism’s rivals, have always managed to give the impression that their ideas are on the winning side of history, and that it is the poor milquetoast liberal democrats who are antique and out of date.
这是因为，即便历史其实并不偏爱某一边，但全球各地的很多人都有奥巴马总统的那种冲动：他们希望感觉到历史青睐的是自己这一边。所以，最成功的对立意识形态，自由主义最具威胁性的对手，总会让人产生这样一种印象：他们的理念会在历史趋势中占上风，而信奉自由民主的人则是可怜的胆小鬼，是已经过气的老古董。
This was obviously true of Marxist-Leninism, but it was true of fascism as well. The fascists were reactionaries, to a point, in their appeals to mythic Roman and Teutonic pasts. But they offered far more than nostalgia: What the late Christopher Hitchens called “the mobilizing energy of fascism” was inseparable from a vision of efficiency, technology and development, one that helped persuade many Europeans (and some Americans) that Mussolini and then even Hitler stood at history’s vanguard, that the future was being forged in Rome and Berlin.
很明显，马克思列宁主义就是如此，法西斯主义也是如此。法西斯主义者痴迷于罗马神话，以及日耳曼人的历史，他们在一定程度上算是保守的。但他们体现的远不只是怀旧：已故的克里斯托弗·希钦斯(Christopher Hitchens)所谓的“法西斯主义的鼓动能力”与效率、技术及发展方面的愿景是分不开的，这曾在一定程度上令很多欧洲人（以及一些美国人）相信，墨索里尼(Mussolini)，甚至希特勒(Hitler)都站在历史前沿，罗马和柏林当时正在铸就未来。
Fortunately for us, that kind of energy is mostly absent from today’s counterideologies, and particularly from the self-styled caliphate whose brutality was on display last week. The term “Islamofascist,” popularized after 9/11, was imprecise because it gave groups like Al Qaeda and ISIS too much credit: They may know how to use the Internet to propagandize, but they otherwise lack even a hint of the reactionary futurism, the marriage of romanticism to industrial efficiency, that made the original fascism appealing to so many.
对于我们来说幸运的是，当今的对立意识形态，特别是上周将自己的残暴性表露无疑的所谓哈里发国，基本上不存在这种能力。9·11之后流传开的“伊斯兰法西斯主义者”的说法并不确切，因为这给予了基地组织(Al Qaeda)及ISIS等组织过多称赞：它们或许知道如何利用网络进行宣传，但它们连一点保守未来主义的迹象都没有，没能将浪漫主义与工业效率结合起来，这种结合使得法西斯主义在最初吸引了很多人。