TOKYO — A series of defiantly nationalistic comments, including remarks critical of the United States, by close political associates of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has led analysts to warn of a growing chill between his right-wing government and the Obama administration, which views Japan as a linchpin of its strategic pivot to Asia.
东京——与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)关系密切的政治人物发表了一系列颇具挑衅意味的民族主义言论，其中还包括批评美国的言辞。这些表态促使分析人士发出警告称，安倍晋三的右翼政府和奥巴马政府间的关系将会越发冷淡。奥巴马政府一向把日本视为其转向亚洲战略的关键。
Rebuttals from the American Embassy in Japan have added to concerns of a falling-out between Japan and the United States, which has so far welcomed Mr. Abe’s efforts to strengthen Japan’s economy and military outreach in the region to serve as a counterbalance to China. The comments, which express revisionist views of Japan’s World War II history, have also led to renewed claims from Japan’s neighbors, particularly China and South Korea, that Mr. Abe is leading his nation to the right, trying to stir up patriotism and gloss over the country’s wartime history.
美国驻日大使馆的反驳让人们更加担心日本和美国将会产生不和。截至目前，美国一直对安倍晋三增强日本的经济，并在该地区扩大军事影响的努力表示欢迎，因为这样可以制衡中国。这些言论对日本的二战历史表达了粉饰的态度，也促使日本的邻国——尤其是中国和韩国——再次发声，称安倍晋三正在带领日本走上右翼路线，希望能借此激起人们的爱国精神，粉饰日本的战争历史。
One of the most direct criticism of the United States came this week, when Seiichi Eto, a governing party lawmaker and aide to Mr. Abe, posted a video online in which he criticized the Obama administration for expressing disappointment in the prime minister’s recent visit to a shrine. The visit to the shrine, which honors the war dead including war criminals, stoked anger in South Korea and China, which both suffered under Imperial Japanese rule.
本周，执政党议员、安倍晋三的助手卫藤晟一(Seiichi Eto)对美国表示了最直接的批评。最近，安倍晋三参拜了靖国神社，奥巴马政府表示对他的行为感到失望，卫藤晟一在上传到网上的视频中，就此对奥巴马政府表示了不满。靖国神社里供奉着许多战死的亡灵，其中还包括一些战犯，安倍晋三的参拜让韩国和中国颇为恼怒，因为这两个国家都曾在日据时期饱受折磨。
“It is I who am disappointed in the United States,” said Mr. Eto in the video on YouTube, which was removed on Wednesday as the prime minister’s office sought to control the diplomatic damage. “Why doesn’t America treat Japan better?” he added.
“应该是我对美国感到失望，”卫藤晟一在YouTube上的视频中说。由于首相官邸希望控制对外交造成的破坏，这段视频已于周三删除。他还说，“为什么美国不对日本好一点呢？”
The disconnect between Washington and its strongest Asian ally comes at a time of rising regional frictions that Mr. Abe has likened to Europe on the eve of World War I. The disputes over history and territory have complicated the United States’ already fraught attempts to persuade Japan and Korea to present a united front to a more confident China, while also trying to avoid antagonizing the Chinese.
美国与它在亚洲关系最紧密的盟友之间出现不和之时，该地区的冲突和矛盾也正在激化，安倍晋三曾说该区域的局势与一战前夕的欧洲很相似。美国试图说服日本和韩国在愈加自信的中国面前达成统一战线，同时又尽量避免惹怒中国，这个工作本来就不甚顺利，可是关于历史和领土的争议又加剧了问题的复杂性。
American officials express frustration that Mr. Abe is not doing enough to allay fears in South Korea, a crucial American ally in Asia, about a conservative agenda they worry includes rolling back the apologies that Japan made for its early 20th-century empire-building. American officials also fear he could undermine his own efforts to restore Japan’s standing in Asia by playing into what they call Chinese efforts to paint the Japanese as unrepentant militarists.
美国在亚洲地区的重要盟友韩国，对日本的保守议程心存顾虑。韩国担心日本会收回为20世纪早期日本铸造帝国时的所作所为表达过的道歉。美国官员认为安倍晋三没有尽其所能安抚韩国的这种忧虑，并对此表达了不满。美国还担心，安倍晋三可能会损害他自己为恢复日本在亚洲的地位所做的努力，因为中国努力把日本塑造为不知悔改的军国主义者的形象，而美国官员认为安倍的举动为中国的说法提供佐证。
Analysts say such concerns are behind the United States Embassy’s taking the unusual step of publicly criticizing Mr. Abe’s trip to the shrine.
分析人士说，美国大使馆之所以会采取不同以往的举措，公开批判安倍晋三参拜靖国神社的行为，也是出于上述的担心。
For their part, Japanese officials express their own exasperation that the United States does not take a clearer stand in favor of Japan in its continuing dispute with China over the control of islands in the East China Sea. They also complain that the Obama administration has not rewarded Mr. Abe enough, despite his self-proclaimed efforts to improve ties with Washington by taking such politically difficult steps as pushing to restart a stalled base relocation in Okinawa.
如今，日中两国就东海岛屿产生的争端仍在继续，就日本官员而言，他们也对美国在这个问题上没有更明确地支持日本感到不满。他们还埋怨，尽管安倍晋三自称为改善日美关系，采取了一些政治上颇为困难的举措，例如重启此前陷入停滞状态的冲绳美军基地的搬迁工作，但奥巴马政府没有给安倍晋三足够的回报。
“Prime Minister Abe feels frustrated,” said Yuichi Hosoya, an expert on United States-Japan relations at Keio University in Tokyo. “He feels he is not being thanked enough for expending his political capital to strengthen the alliance.”
“安倍首相感到失落，”东京庆应义塾大学(Keio University)的美日关系专家细谷雄一(Yuichi Hosoya)说。“他觉得自己为加强两国关系付出了自己的政治资本，但却没有获得足够的感谢。”
One of the most provocative comments from Abe allies came this month, when an ultraconservative novelist, Naoki Hyakuta, who was appointed by the prime minister himself to the governing board of public broadcaster NHK, said in a speech that the Tokyo war tribunal after World War II was a means to cover up the “genocide” of American air raids on Tokyo and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The United States Embassy called the comments “preposterous.”
安倍晋三的盟友本月发出的最具挑衅意味的言论是，极端保守的小说家百田尚树(Naoki Hyakuta)在一篇演讲中说，二战后的东京军事法庭是掩盖美国空袭东京、向广岛和长崎投掷原子弹的“种族灭绝”行为的一种手段。百田尚树由安倍晋三亲自任命，在公共广播电视机构NHK担任经营委员。美国大使馆称这些评论“荒谬”。
Mr. Hyakuta’s comments came days after the new president of NHK, who was chosen last month by a governing board including Abe appointees, raised eyebrows in Washington by saying that Japan should not be singled out for forcing women to provide sex to Japanese soldiers during the war, saying the United States military did the same. Most historians say the Japanese system of creating special brothels for the troops, then forcing tens of thousands of women from other countries to work there, was different from the practice by other countries’ troops in occupied areas who frequented local brothels.
此时发生几天前，NHK的新任会长曾说，谈到战争期间强迫女性为士兵提供性服务的问题，不应该只针对日本，因为美国军队也是这样做的，他的说法引起了华盛顿的不满。这位会长上个月刚刚由一个管理委员会选举产生，委员会中包括安倍晋三任命的委员。大多数历史学者都说，日本为军队专门设立慰安所，之后迫使数以万计的他国女性从事性工作，而其他国家的军人则是不时光顾当地的妓院，这两种做法存在差异。
The Japanese discontent with treatment by the Obama administration goes back to early last year, when a newly elected Mr. Abe tried to arrange an immediate trip to meet the president, only to be told to wait a month. More recently, Japanese officials have appeared hurt that Mr. Obama wants to spend only one night in Japan during a visit to the region in April.
日本对奥巴马政府态度的不满可以追溯到去年早些时候。当时，新当选的安倍晋三打算立即安排行程，前去会见奥巴马总统，但却被告知需要等待一个月。近来，日本官员似乎再次受到打击，因为奥巴马在4月访问该国时只想在日本待一夜。
Some analysts say this feeling of being held at arm’s length may be driving some of the recent criticisms of the United States.
有些分析人士说，近日美国受到的一些批判可能就源于这种被拒于千里之外的感觉。
“This is one of the most dangerous moments in U.S.-Japan relations that I have seen,” said Takashi Kawakami, an expert on international relations at Takushoku University in Tokyo. “Japan is feeling isolated, and some Japanese people are starting to think Japan must stand up for itself, including toward the United States.”
“这是我所见过的美日关系最危险的时刻，”东京拓殖大学(Takushoku University)的国际关系专家川上高司(Takashi Kawakami)说。“日本有一种被孤立的感觉，有些日本人开始觉得日本应该为自己出头，而不是去依附美国。”
Analysts note that many of the comments are being made by relatively minor figures, and not members of Mr. Abe’s cabinet. They also say that Japanese public attitudes remain overwhelmingly favorable toward the United States, which has been the guarantor of Japan’s postwar security with its 50,000 military personnel stationed in the country.
分析人士指出，前面提到的许多评论都来自相对不那么重要的人物，而非安倍晋三的内阁成员。他们还说，绝大多数日本公众仍然对美国感到友善。美国是日本战后安全的保护者，目前共有5万美军驻扎在那里。
At the same time, the analysts say, frustrations on both sides are real. In the United States, they reflect an ambivalence toward Mr. Abe, as some worry that he is returning to the agenda he pursued the last time he was prime minister — trying to revise the country’s pacifist Constitution and downplay wartime atrocities in the name of restoring lost national pride.
与此同时，分析人士称，双方的不满情绪都是真实的。在美国，这种情绪反映了对安倍晋三的矛盾心态。一些人担心，他正在重拾上次担任首相期间主张的议题，也就是尝试修改日本的和平宪法，并且以恢复失去的民族自豪感为名刻意淡化战时的暴行。
“I think the Yasukuni visit was a turning point in U.S. attitudes toward Abe,” Daniel C. Sneider, associate director for research at the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, said of the visit to the shrine. “It was a reminder that he is still trying to push his patriotic remake of postwar Japan.”
谈到参拜靖国神社一事，斯坦福大学舒思深亚太研究中心(Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University)的研究副主任丹尼尔·C·施奈德(Daniel C. Sneider)称，“我认为参拜之行是美国看待安倍晋三的转折点。它提醒人们，他仍然在尝试推动对战后的日本进行爱国主义改造。”
The Yasukuni Shrine visit, and the American criticism of it, also appeared to unleash the current wave of revisionist statements.
安倍晋三的参拜及美国对此的批评，似乎还引发了当前的一波粉饰言论。
American analysts and officials have faulted Mr. Abe for failing to sufficiently distance himself and his administration from the nationalistic statements. Instead, his government’s spokesman has merely said the statements represented the speakers’ “personal views” without criticizing them, though the spokesman did say the administration had asked Mr. Eto to remove the video expressing disappointment in the United States.
美国分析人士与官员指责安倍晋三未能让本人及其领导的政府与这些民族主义言论保持充分的距离。内阁发言人仅仅表示，这些言论代表的是说话者的“个人观点”，而没有予以谴责。不过，他的确也称，安倍内阁已要求卫藤晟一删除表达对美国失望之情的视频。
Visiting members of Congress have also warned that revisionist statements as well as Mr. Abe’s visit to Yasukuni would only benefit China. They added, however, that the American relationship with Japan is still sound enough to be easily fixable.
前来日本访问的一些美国国会议员也发出警告，粉饰言论及安倍晋三的参拜只会让中国获益。尽管如此，他们也表示，美日之间的关系仍相当稳固，修补起来比较容易。
“There are always unfortunate statements and unfortunate comments even among the best of friends, and this is something that is going to have to be worked out and gotten over with,” said Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, Republican of Wisconsin, who was part of a group of visiting Congress members in Tokyo who met on Wednesday with Mr. Abe. “It is important that we have an economically vibrant and strong Japan to act as a counterbalance to China.”
议员代表团周三在东京拜会了安倍晋三。其中，来自威斯康星州的共和党众议员吉姆·森森布伦纳(Jim Sensenbrenner)说，“就算是最好的盟友之间，也总会存在令人遗憾的说法和言论。这也是我们必须解决并跨越的问题。我们需要经济繁荣而强大的日本来制衡中国，这一点十分重要。”