Each picture and description is a terse domestic tragedy.
这里的每张照片及描述都是一部浓缩的家庭悲剧。
Zhang Xiaofang was found as an infant more than seven years ago in a long-distance bus station in southern China, wearing a white top and yellow pants. She has a round face.
七年多前，张小芳在华南的一座长途汽车站被人发现时还是个婴儿，当时她穿着白色上衣与黄色长裤。她有张圆脸。
Xu Bowen, now about 8, has an aquiline nose and heavy earlobes. He was rescued over six years ago after he was abandoned at a hospital in Dongguan, an industrial city in southern China, and then snatched from there.
许博文现在大约八岁，有着扁鼻梁与厚耳珠。他被遗弃在东莞一间医院里，随即又给人掳走，六年多前获救。
Dang Jinzhi was found in a village in the central province of Henan in May 2013. She has a round, pale face and was wearing a red top when she was rescued around age 1.
党金知于2013年5月在中部河南省的一座村子里被找到。她有张圆脸和白皮肤，获救时大约一岁，身穿红色上衣。
These children are among the 284 shown on a new Chinese government website intended to increase their chances of being reunited with their biological parents after they were taken and sold to other families, and then rescued by the police. Each picture is accompanied by information such as where the children were found, their physical characteristics and what they were wearing when rescued.
这些孩子出现在中国官方的这个新网站上的284张面孔之中。他们都被拐卖给其他家庭，后来被警方救出。设立这个网站是为了增加他们与亲生父母团圆的机会。站上的每张照片都伴随着一些资讯，比如孩子是在哪里找到的，他们的身体特征，以及获救时的穿着。
Their fates are an unplanned consequence of the government’s heightened campaign against the abduction and sale of children.
他们的际遇，是政府加强打击儿童拐卖行动下出人意料的结果。
In the past, thousands of Chinese children are missing every year, many of them taken by networks of traffickers who sell them to couples who are childless or want another child — and who are willing to turn a blind eye to where the children came from. But in the past couple of years especially, the police and government authorities have mounted intense operations to stamp out the business.
在过去，中国每年有成千上万名失踪儿童，其中有许多是被人贩子网络拐卖给膝下无子或想要再有孩子的父母，而这些家长也对孩子是怎么来的睁一只眼闭一只眼。不过，特别是最近几年，警方与政府执法部门加强了缉查人口贩卖的行动。
Many of the children were abducted, stolen from homes, hospitals, school gates or streets. Most of them appear to be boys, sought by childless farming couples as heirs and breadwinners in a male-dominated rural society. Others have been sold by one or both parents. Many of these are girls, seen as a burden in some parts of the countryside.
这些孩子有许多是拐来的，从住家、医院、校门口或大街上被劫走。这其中似乎大多数是男孩儿，供给男尊女卑的乡村社会里的无子农家，因为他们需要子嗣，也要有人来挣钱养家。其他孩子则是被双亲或其中一位给卖了。这些则很多是女孩儿，在某些乡下地方被视为负担。
Many rescued children have been reunited with their parents, sometimes using DNA to make matches, often in wrenching scenes of children abruptly taken in by families they never knew they had. But the others have ended up in government orphanages, waiting for their biological parents or other relatives to claim them.
许多获救的孩童与父母团聚了，有些是靠DNA比对。团聚的场面往往令人揪心，孩子们被家人们突然带走，而此前他们都不知道家人的存在。其他人则住进官办福利院，等待亲生父母或亲戚来找。
Some have not been assigned names in the descriptions. One girl, age 1 or so, was rescued in late 2013 from a village in Hebei Province, northern China, wrapped in a blanket against the winter cold.
有些孩子在网站的叙述里甚至还没有名字。有个大约一岁的女孩儿在2013年底于河北某个村里获救，当时包裹在小被子里抵御寒冬。
Cao Lei, a worker in the Xianli County orphanage that was caring for her, said in a telephone interview that the girl was given the name Dang Ailing. A local couple were acting as foster parents for the girl and hoped to formally adopt her, Mr. Cao said.
曹磊在照顾这个女婴的献县福利院工作。他在电话访问中表示，这个女孩儿取名为党爱玲，目前寄养在当地一对夫妇家，而他们希望能正式收养她。
“The couple know we have put up her information online and they understand that,” he said. “They wanted to adopt a kid but they do understand that she needs to be with her birth parents if they show up. We’ve signed an agreement on that,” he said. “The couple don’t have a kid themselves.”
“那对夫妻知道我们已经把信息公示出去了。他们也明白这个情况，”曹磊说。“他们想领养一个孩子，但是他们也明白，要是她的亲生父母来的话，她还是得和亲生父母在一起，”他说。“这对夫妻自己没有孩子。”
In 2014, Chinese courts concluded proceedings in 1,048 cases of minors or women who were abducted and sold, or of children who were sexually molested, according to a government report issued last year, which did not make a distinction between the two crimes. An earlier report said that, in 2013, the police broke 2,765 cases of abducted children and that 631 children found their birth parents through the Ministry of Public Security’s DNA database.
中国政府去年发布的一份报告显示，2014年中国法院共计审理1048起未成年人、妇女拐卖和儿童性侵案件，这份报告并没有将两种犯罪行为进行区分。更早的一份报告显示，中国警方在2013年共侦破2765起儿童拐卖案，其中有631名被拐儿童通过公安部的DNA数据库被亲生父母找到。
But the children on the Ministry of Civil Affairs’ new website are those whose parents have not found them. Until changes announced by the ministry and other agencies last week, the children often stayed in orphanages indefinitely, waiting for their families to claim them. Under the new rules, the children can be adopted if their birth parents have not been found within 15 months of their rescue.
但出现民政部的新网站上的孩子都还没有找到自己的父母。在民政部和其他机构上周宣布政策变化之前，这些孩子往往就要无期限地待在福利院，等待父母来认领。而依据目前的新规，如果在获救后15个月内亲生父母没有来认领，这些孩子就可以被收养。
The new website was unveiled on Saturday, and by Monday afternoon, it had nearly 3.5 million visits. But so far Chinese news outlets have not reported any cases of children being identified by their parents. And the brief descriptions are sometimes a testament to how widespread abduction has become.
这个在周六刚刚对外公布的网站，截止周一下午，已经有350万的浏览量。但目前还没有中国媒体报道任何有关这些孩子被父母认出的消息。而网站上对每个孩子的简短描述，在某种程度上也显示出，拐卖行为覆盖的范围已经有多么广。
The site includes seven boys, now all about three, found as infants in quick succession in April 2013 near Shantou, in Guangdong Province, an area where the buying of boys has been a serious problem. The seven were given the surname Chen and then the names Yifu (“One Happiness”), Erfu (“Two Happiness), up to Qifu (“Seven Happiness”).
在这个网站公布的孩子中，有七名男孩都是于2013年4月在广东省买卖男孩问题比较严重的汕头市被接连发现的。这7名男孩如今大约3岁，他们被给予了陈姓，依次命名为一福、二福……直到七福。
“We hope that they have happiness,” an unnamed official at the Chaoyang District orphanage in Shantou told The China Youth Daily in a report on Monday. He said that they had yet to receive phone calls from possible birth parents or people willing to adopt them.
“希望他们有福、幸福，”在《北京青年报》周一发表的一篇报道中，汕头市潮阳区福利院一位没有署名的工作人员这样讲道。他表示，他们还没有接到有可能是他们亲生父母的人打来的电话，也没人表示愿意收养这几个男孩。