More than twice as many Asian-Americans now identify as Democrats than as Republicans, and they hold strongly unfavorable views of Donald J. Trump, a new national survey found, emphasizing the Republican Party’s continued struggle to appeal to minority groups.
一项新的全国民意调查发现，如今自认为民主党人的亚裔美国人是自认为共和党人的两倍多，他们对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)持有强烈的反对态度，这突显出共和党在吸引少数族裔群体方面面临持续的困难。
The figures, published on Wednesday by the nonpartisan National Asian-American Survey, suggested that the political allegiances of Asians might be hardening in a way that could harm Republicans with the fastest-growing minority group well beyond 2016.
周三由无党派的全美亚裔调查(National Asian-American Survey)发布的数据显示，作为增长最迅速的少数族裔，亚裔政治忠诚度的强化对共和党的负面影响可能在今后数年将一直存在。
“Over the past 20 years,” the report said, “Asian-American support for Democratic presidential candidates has increased more dramatically than among any other racial group.”
“过去20年里，”报告写道，“支持民主党总统候选人的亚裔美国人急剧增长，幅度超过了任何其他族裔群体。”
Fifty-seven percent of Asians identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party today, compared with 24 percent who do for the Republican Party, the survey said.
调查显示，57%的亚裔认同或倾向于民主党。相比之下，自认为共和党人的亚裔只有24%。
Mr. Trump’s numbers are far worse. Mrs. Clinton leads him among all Asian registered voters, 55 percent to 14 percent.
特朗普的数字要糟糕得多。在亚裔登记选民中，克林顿的支持率远远领先于他，前者是55%，后者是14%。
And while the Asian vote has never been monolithic — it includes a vast array of ethnicities, nationalities and religious affiliations — the distaste for Mr. Trump extends far and deep into all groups. Seventy-nine percent of Indian-Americans surveyed said they had an unfavorable view of Mr. Trump. So did 84 percent of Koreans, 67 percent of Chinese and 62 percent of Filipinos.
亚裔选民从来不是一个庞大而统一的群体——它包括了许多族群和宗教派别——但对特朗普的厌恶深远地延伸至所有群体。79%的被调查印裔美国人表示，他们对特朗普持负面看法。还有84%的韩裔、67%的华裔和62的菲裔也是如此。
The only bright spot were Vietnamese-Americans, who were split more or less evenly: 43 percent unfavorable, 45 percent favorable for Mr. Trump.
唯一的亮点是越裔美国人，他们的人数有点平均：43%的人不支持特朗普，45%的人支持。
In 1992, George H.W. Bush won Asian-Americans by an overwhelming 24-point margin. Bob Dole, the Republican nominee in 1996, won them as well, but by a smaller margin. The Democratic nominee has won Asians ever since.
1992年，乔治·H·W布什以24个点的压倒优势赢得亚裔美国人的支持。1996年的共和党提名人鲍勃·多尔(Bob Dole)也曾以相对小的领先优势赢得他们的支持。之后，共和党提名人一直获得亚裔的青睐。
Many Republicans have started to raise the alarm that Mr. Trump is only alienating Asians further. He has suggested cutting off immigration from the Philippines, citing fears that the longtime American ally poses the same national security threat as countries like Afghanistan and Syria. And his proposals to ban Muslims from immigrating to the United States and to deport millions of undocumented immigrants have stirred up painful memories of discriminatory policies that have targeted Asians in the past, like the internment of the Japanese during World War II.
许多共和党人开始发出警报，表示特朗普只会让亚裔与之进一步疏远。他提议减少来自菲律宾的移民，理由是担心这个美国长久以来的盟友会像阿富汗和叙利亚等国一样构成国家安全威胁。他禁止穆斯林移民美国和驱逐数以百万计的未登记移民的提议，唤起了对过去针对亚裔的歧视政策的痛苦记忆，比如在二战期间对日裔的拘留。
The survey asked its participants — who were interviewed in 10 languages — whether they supported Mr. Trump’s Muslim ban. Sixty-two percent said no, while 20 percent said yes.
这项调查询问参与者——以10种语言对他们进行采访——是否支持特朗禁止穆斯林移民美国的提议。62%的人表示反对，20%的人则表示支持。