For years, young people - often girls and young women - have frequented Web sites promoting anorexia and bulimia as a source of inspiration and tips on staying thin, even as online companies have worked to ban such content. Now, groups and Web sites focused on recovery from eating disorders are fighting back.
许多年来，年轻人——尤其是少女与年轻女士——时常光顾鼓吹厌食与暴食的网站，以寻求保持苗条的动力和妙计，尽管网络公司一直在努力禁止此类内容。而现在，致力于治疗饮食紊乱(eating disorder)的互助小组和网站开始了反击。
"We need to be looking at these communities and see what we can learn from them, and what we can provide as a positive alternative," said Claire Mysko, manager of Proud2Bme.org, a Web site and online community focused on healthy recovery that is financed by the nonprofit National Eating Disorders Association. "That's what we're trying to do here."
“我们应当注意这类网络团体，看看我们能从中学到什么，能提供哪些有积极意义的替代资讯。”Proud2Bme.org网站经理克莱尔·米什科(Claire Mysko)说。该网络社区由非营利性的美国饮食失调协会(National Eating Disorders Association)资助，注重于健康康复。“这就是我们正在努力做的。”
This Saturday, the group is taking its message to the University of South Florida in Tampa for its free annual Proud2Bme Summit. Attendees will be encouraged to engage in activities like taking a stand on Twitter against "body snarking," a bullying tactic that draws attention to a person's body or weight gain, and hear from speakers including Julia Bluhm, a 14-year-old who collected more than 86,000 signatures to petition Seventeen magazine to print one unaltered photo spread a month.
10月13日，小组成员把一年一度Proud2Bme Summit峰会的消息带到了坦帕市的南佛罗里达大学(University of South Florida)，会议可免费入场参加。会议鼓励参与者到推特(Twitter)上去大力反对“形象唾弃”（body snarking，强行让人注意体型和体重增加）的行为，同时倾听演讲，演讲者包括14岁少女茱莉亚·布卢姆(Julia Bluhm)，她曾要求《17岁》(Seventeen)杂志每月刊登一张不经美化的跨页照片并为此争取到了超过8.6万个签名。
"Our goal here is to make it a space where people can connect," Ms. Mysko said.
“我们的目标是建立一个人们能相互沟通的空间。”米什科女士说。
The site began in 2011 after the success of its Dutch counterpart, Proud2Bme.nl, whose co-founder Scarlet Hemkes struggled with anorexia and bulimia as a teenager and young adult and was horrified to find countless sites where girls competed to lose weight or shared tips on how to lie to parents about weight loss. Inspired by France's move in 2008 to ban such sites - commonly called pro-ana (for pro-anorexia) sites - Ms. Hemkes collected 10,000 signatures with the hopes of inspiring similar Dutch legislation. When that didn't work, she created a community on Hyves, a Facebook-like social network, before founding Proud2Bme with a psychologist, Eric van Furth, in 2009.
继荷兰版Proud2Bme.nl取得成功后，美国版网站于2011年建立。荷兰站的共同创始人斯卡尔莱特·赫姆克斯(Scarlet Hemkes)在十几二十岁时，曾挣扎于厌食症与暴食症中。她惊恐地发现，女孩子们在无数网站上竞相比拼减肥进度，分享如何向家长隐瞒体重减轻的秘诀。2008年，法国开展了禁止促厌食（pro-ana，pro-anorexia缩写）网站的运动。受其感染，赫姆克斯收集了1万个签名，希望敦促荷兰也出台类似法律，结果没有成功，于是她就在荷兰交友网（Hyves，类似于Facebook的社交网站）上建立了网络社区。2009年，她与心理学家埃里克·范弗斯(Eric van Furth)共同创立了Proud2Bme。
Many pro-ana sites cater to young people with eating disorders by featuring blogs, forums, calorie counters, videos, tips, poetry and pictures. "A lot of it is very image based: It's people posting pictures of very thin bodies that have quotes glorifying thinness," said Ms. Mysko, who aims to make the American site equally appealing for its 7,000 daily visitors by also including "fashion and everyday stuff."
很多促厌食网站都是面向患有饮食紊乱的年轻人的。它们用博客、论坛、卡路里计算器、视频、小窍门、诗歌和照片来吸引客户。“大多数内容都把照片为基础：人们把极瘦形体的照片发布上去，再附上赞美纤瘦的语言。”米什科说。为了每日的7000名访客，她想把美国站办得同样吸引人，因而加入了“时尚与日常生活”版块。
Web companies periodically try to stamp out the proliferation of pro-ana Web sites. In 2001, Yahoo! and other Web portals banned sites promoting eating disorders. And this year, Pinterest, Tumblr and Instagram banned "thinspo," a term associated with finding inspiration for thinness. "We're committed to supporting freedom of speech, but we wanted to provide some limits," said Katherine Barna, a Tumblr spokeswoman. "We drew the line on any blogs that actively promote self-harm."
网络公司周期性地扼杀促厌食网站的萌芽。2001年，雅虎(Yahoo!)及其他一些门户网站都禁止了鼓吹饮食紊乱的站点。今年，Pinterest（分享照片的网站）、Tumblr（轻博客）和Instagram（基于手机的照片分享应用）屏蔽了“thinspo”——用来搜索鼓励减肥的词语。“我们承诺支持言论自由，但也要设限，”Tumblr发言人凯瑟琳·巴尔纳(Katherine Barna)说：“我们严禁任何积极鼓励自残行为的博客。”
Still, pro-ana sites continue to multiply with the ever-increasing number of online platforms.
然而，促厌食网站仍随着数量日益激增的网络平台而疯狂滋长。
"We need to find a way to make the healthy information more attractive to these girls," said Daphna Yeshua-Katz, a doctoral student in the Indiana University department of telecommunications. For a recent study, she and Nicole Martins, an assistant professor at the university, talked to 33 pro-ana bloggers, women ages 15 to 33 who were willing to be interviewed. The study, published in August in the journal Health Communication, showed that participants were motivated to blog as a way to cope with a stigmatized illness and a means of self-expression and social support.
“我们必须找到方法让健康的信息更吸引这些女孩们，”印第安纳大学(Indiana University)电子通信系的博士研究生达芙娜·耶舒亚-卡茨(Daphna Yeshua-Katz)说。在最近的一项研究里，她与助理教授妮科尔·马丁斯(Nicole Martins)跟33名15-33岁愿意接受采访的女性促厌食博主进行了对谈。参与者表示自己开博的动机是找到应对众人所不齿的疾病的办法，并作为自我表达，取得社会支持的渠道，该研究发表在8月的《健康传播》(Health Communication)上。
Ms. Mysko of Proud2Bme.org says that her group is aiming to turn that social support into something positive. "Those who might be attracted to thinspiration content will find a space where they can feel accepted and feel like they are able to talk to others who get it," she said. "It's an environment that's promoting recovery."
Proud2Bme.org的米什科女士说，她们的团体旨在把社会支持转向积极的事情上来。“让那些可能被“励瘦”(thinspiration)内容所吸引的人能够找到一个感觉自己被大家接受的地方，还能与有同样感触的人们交流，”她说，“这是一个鼓励康复的环境。”