Myanmar’s first freely elected Parliament after half a century of military rule opened on Monday, a symbolic but critical milestone in the country’s fragile transition to democracy, and a moment long awaited by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the nation’s democracy movement.
历经半个世纪的军政府统治之后，本周一，缅甸第一次通过自由选举产生的议会开幕了。在该国脆弱的民主转型过程中，这是一个很有象征性也十分关键的里程碑。该国家民主运动的领袖昂山素季对这个时刻期待已久。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi entered the parliamentary chambers in Naypyidaw, the capital, through a side door. The chamber was swathed in orange — the color of her National League for Democracy Party, which overwhelmingly won a landmark election on Nov. 8. The military, as part of a complex political transition that has unfolded since 2010, retains 25 percent of the seats in both houses; its members wore green uniforms.
在缅甸首都内比都的议会大楼，昂山素季通过侧门进入议事厅，大厅里一片橙色，这是她领导的全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)的配色。去年11月8日，该党压倒性地赢得大选。而作为2010年以来缅甸复杂政治过渡的一部分，军方在两院保留了25%的席位；其成员身穿绿色制服。
At least 110 of the party’s 390 members in the new Parliament are, like Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, former political prisoners. They were formally installed on Monday following an unusually jubilant celebration on Friday, with karaoke singing and dancing, to mark the end of the military-led Parliament.
全国民主联盟在新议会中的390名议员中，至少有110人和昂山素季一样，曾经是政治犯。本周一，他们正式就职。上周五他们举办了异常喜悦的欢庆活动，唱卡拉OK、跳舞，庆祝军方领导的议会落幕。
“The honeymoon period will be brief,” U Aung Zaw, an influential journalist who returned to Myanmar in 2012 after 24 years in exile, wrote on Monday on the website of his publication, The Irrawaddy. “All the hard work lies ahead.”
“蜜月期会很短暂，前方有很多艰苦的工作要做，”著名记者昂索(Aung Zaw)周一在他的网站“伊洛瓦底”(The Irrawaddy)上写道。在流亡24年后，他于2012年回到缅甸。
Still, he called the opening of Parliament “a momentous day for Burma,” which was the country’s official name until 1989 and is still used by many in Myanmar.
尽管如此，他也说议会开幕是“缅甸(Burma)的一个大日子”。Burma是该国1989年之前的官方名称，如今在缅甸仍然有很多人使用这个名字。
The lower house of the new Parliament elected U Win Myint, a lawyer from Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s political party and a former political prisoner, as its new speaker. But in a sign of conciliation, lawmakers picked as deputy speaker U Ti Khun Myat, a member of the Kachin ethnic minority and a representative of the military-affiliated Union Solidarity and Development Party, which is now the party in opposition.
新议会的下院选出昂山素季政党的成员温敏(Win Myint)担任新议长，他是一名律师，曾经也是政治犯。但议员们选举帝昆秒(Ti Khun Myat)为副议长，他属于少数民族克钦族，也是现在的反对党、有军方背景的联邦巩固与发展党(Union Solidarity and Development Party)的代表。这是和解的信号。
President Thein Sein, a former general who leads that party, gave a speech on Friday promoting the country’s “democratic transformation.” As the prime minister from 2007 to 2011, Mr. Thein Sein helped to establish a military-led civilian government and to pave the way for the end of the military junta’s monopoly on power, which it had held since a 1962 coup. The transition included Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s release from house arrest in 2010, a parliamentary by-election in 2012 that put her in Parliament, improved relations with the United States and the European Union, and the easing of some economic sanctions.
该党的领导人是前将领、缅甸总统登盛(Thein Sein)。上周五他发表讲话，宣扬该国的“民主转型”。在2007年到2011年担任总理期间，登盛帮助建立了军方领导的文职政府，为结束1962年政变以来的军政府独断统治铺平了道路。在过渡期间，长期受到软禁的昂山素季于2010年获释，并在2012年的议会补选中当选议员，政府还改善了与美国、欧盟的关系，让一些经济制裁得以放宽。
Mr. Thein Sein is to step down in March, and the new Parliament will choose his successor. But under the new Constitution, which was drawn up by the previous military-led government and accepted by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, the democracy leader is not eligible for the position because of the foreign citizenship of her husband — the British historian Michael Aris, who died in 1999 — and her two sons, who hold British citizenship.
登盛将在3月下台，新一届议会将选出继任者。但按照新宪法的规定，民主运动的领导人昂山素季并不具备担任总统的资格，原因是她丈夫——1999年去世的英国历史学家迈克尔·阿里斯(Michael Aris)——和两个儿子的外国公民身份。她的两个儿子持有英国国籍。新宪法是由以前的军政府起草的，得到了昂山素季的认可。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house arrest under the former military government, said last year that a victory by her party would put her “above the president,” suggesting that the next president would be, if not largely ceremonial, a loyalist essentially governing on her behalf.
在前军政府统治时期被软禁了15年的昂山素季去年表示，她领导的政党获胜后，她将“高于总统”。这表明下一任总统哪怕不是大体上只有仪式性的职能，也会忠诚于她，本质上是代表她执政。
The National League for Democracy has been consumed with speculation about possible candidates for president. Among the names being mentioned are Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s longtime personal physician, U Tin Myo Win, who was one of the few people allowed to visit her during her years in detention; a lawmaker, Daw Su Su Lwin, and her husband, U Htin Kyaw, both democratic activists; and U Tin Oo, a former military commander in his late 80s who threw his support behind the 1988 democratic uprising that led to the party’s landslide election victory in 1990. (The junta refused to recognize the results.)
对于谁会成为总统候选人，全国民主联盟内部充满了猜测。被提到的人选包括长期担任昂山素季私人医生的丁苗温(U Tin Myo Win)、议员素素伦(Daw Su Su Lwin)和前军方将领丁乌(U Tin Oo)。昂山素季被软禁期间，丁苗温是获准去探视她的少数几个人之一；素素伦和丈夫廷觉(Htin Kyaw)都是民主活动人士；年近九旬的丁乌则对1988年的民主起义提供了支持。那场起义促使该党在1990年的选举中取得了压倒性的胜利。（军政府拒绝承认那次选举的结果。）
The military, which still controls three key ministries under the new Constitution, remains a key force in the country.
按照新宪法的规定依然掌控着三大关键部委的军方，依然是该国的一股关键力量。
In an email, Mr. Aung Zaw, the journalist, predicted that the National League for Democracy, despite its overwhelming victory last fall, would move carefully in forming a new government, which will take office in April.
在电子邮件中，前述记者昂索预计，尽管去年秋天取得了压倒性的胜利，但全国民主联盟在组建新一届政府时依然会谨慎行事。新一届政府将于4月掌权。
“This is a new political beginning in Burma,” he wrote. “There is definitely renewed hope among people.”
“这是缅甸政局新的开端，”他写道。“民众肯定会重新燃起希望。”
Myanmar, a nation of 53 million people, faces enormous challenges, including widespread poverty, an underdeveloped economy and environmental degradation. There are still political prisoners behind bars, and Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has faced criticism for not responding more aggressively to deadly violence by members of the country’s Buddhist majority against the Rohingya, a Muslim ethnic group.
作为一个有5300万人口的国家，缅甸面临着诸多挑战，包括贫困现象普遍、经济不发达和环境恶化。该国狱中依然关押着政治犯；在缅甸占多数的佛教徒对穆斯林少数族群罗辛亚人发起血腥暴力活动时，昂山素季也因为没能对事态作出更有力的回应而受到了批评。