LE BOURGET, France — They live in the jungle, wear their traditional attire every day, not just on special occasions, and though many of them have never traveled this far from home, they don’t have much time for sightseeing.
法国勒布尔热——他们生活在丛林中，每天都穿传统服饰，而不仅仅是在特殊场合才穿着，虽然他们中的很多人从来没有到过离家这么远的地方，但却没有太多时间来观光。
The 21 Peruvian Indians attending the Paris climate talks this week (about 30 more are expected to arrive next week) have traveled more than 6,300 miles to fight for their survival.
参加本周巴黎气候谈判的这21名秘鲁印第安人（还有约30名预计于下周到达）奔波6300多英里，来为自己的生存而战。
“The reason for our existence is our land, where we have our own governance, economy and cultural practices,” said Lyndon Pishagua Chinchuya, 43, of the Yanesha community in the Peruvian Amazon. “We are here at COP 21 to show the world the importance of recognizing land tenure as a method of climate mitigation,” referring to the climate talks.
“我们的土地是我们存在的原因，在那里，我们有自己的治理机制、经济和文化习俗。我们在这里的COP 21大会上向世界展示，认识到土地使用权是减缓气候变化的一种方法，这很重要，”43岁的林登·皮沙瓦·琴苏亚(Lyndon Pishagua Chinchuya)说，他来自秘鲁亚马孙地区雅尼莎(Yanesha)社区。COP 21指的是巴黎气候谈判。
With their face paint, beads and feathers, the Peruvian Indians stand out in a gathering of more than 40,000 people who are mostly wearing Western business suits.
参加大会的4万多人中，大多数都穿着西式商务套装，而这些秘鲁印第安人脸上涂抹着颜料，戴着珠子和羽毛，相当引人注目。
Their attire is part of their strategy.
装束是他们的战略的一部分。
Like most people attending these climate talks, the Peruvian Indians are not among the negotiators, though they are advising the Peruvian negotiating team. They are here to raise awareness for their situation. Their visit was financed by a grant the government of Norway made last year, when Peru hosted the annual United Nations climate talks, now in their 21st year.
秘鲁印第安人虽然会为秘鲁谈判小组提供建议，但和参加这些气候谈判的大多数人一样，他们也不是谈判者。他们来到这里，是为了提升大家对其状况的意识。此行的费用是挪威政府在去年提供的，当时秘鲁在主办一年一度的联合国气候变化谈判，现在谈判进行到了第21年。
Peru is rich in biodiversity, but land degradation, water pollution and deforestation are endangering the homes of the Yanesha and others. Conflicts with companies that seek to exploit the region’s minerals and timber are on the rise.
秘鲁拥有丰富的生物多样性，但那里的土地退化、水质污染和森林砍伐现象给雅尼莎人和其他人的家园造成了危害。一些公司想开发该地区的矿产和木材，他们与当地居民的冲突正在日益加剧。
Though Peruvian law ostensibly recognizes the land rights of indigenous communities, much of the title to the land has not been formalized, making disputes hard to resolve. Arbitration and litigation are expensive and difficult to access.
虽然秘鲁法律名义上承认土著社区的土地权，但很大一部分土地所有权尚未形成正式文件，导致纠纷难以解决。仲裁和诉讼很不方便，也很昂贵。
Esther Diquez Rojas, 32, a member of the Ashaninka indigenous community, said that her village was already seeing more intense and severe flooding, less predictable rainfall and a decline in the population of the bagre, a kind of catfish eaten in the community.
32岁的艾斯特·迪奎·罗哈斯(Esther Diquez Rojas)来自阿沙宁卡(Ashaninka)土著社区，她说村子里遭遇了更加猛烈、更加严重的洪涝灾害，降雨变得更加难以预测，该社区食用的一种名叫巴格雷的鲶鱼，数量也在减少。
None of the four Peruvians had ever traveled to Paris, or ventured this far from home.
这四名秘鲁人之前都没有来过巴黎，也从来没有到过离家这么远的地方。
Hector Martin Manchi, 49, joked that he had been “to the moon” — but only after drinking ayahuasca, a plant-based medicine known for its psychoactive properties.
49岁的海克特·马丁·曼奇(Hector Martin Manchi)开玩笑说自己到了“月亮”——但这是喝过死藤水之后；死藤水是一种植物源药物，以其精神活性著称。
Mr. Martin Manchi, who is also from the Ashaninka community, said he had traveled to the end of one of the Paris subway lines just to see what he would find, but had no time for museums. “It’s expensive to tour Paris,” he said.
马丁·曼奇也来自阿沙宁卡社区，他说自己去过了巴黎一条地铁的终点站，只是为了看看那里有什么，但他没有时间去博物馆。“在巴黎游览很贵，”他说。
Miguel Samaniego Arroyo, 34, an activist with the Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Rainforest, said he opposed the distinction between “developed” and “developing” people — one of the most common themes of the climate conference.
34岁的米格尔·萨马涅戈·阿罗约(Miguel Samaniego Arroyo)是秘鲁雨林族群发展协会(Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Rainforest)的一名活动人士。他说他反对“发达”人群和“发展中”人群之间的区分——这是此次气候大会最常见的主题之一。
“We don’t want the private-sector way of life imposed on us,” he said. “Everyone develops in their own way.”
“我们不想被强加上私营经济生活方式，”他说。“人人都在用自己的方式发展。”
Asked what he hoped to impart to the powerful decision-makers meeting here, Mr. Samaniego Arroyo responded: “What we want the most is for people in the city to respect the jungle — to know that the jungle is here and that people are living here. The Amazon is a living being, not just resources.”
被问到想对正在这里开会的有权有势的决策者说些什么时，萨马涅戈·阿罗约回答说：“我们最想要的是城里人尊重丛林，知道丛林就在这里，知道有人生活在这里面。亚马孙雨林是有生命的，不仅仅是资源。”