COLUMBUS, Ohio — CLIMATOLOGISTS call it the Little Ice Age; historians, the General Crisis.
俄亥俄州哥伦布——气候学家称之为“小冰期”(Little Ice Age)；历史学家称之为“普遍危机”(General Crisis)。
During the 17th century, longer winters and cooler summers disrupted growing seasons and destroyed harvests across Europe. It was the coldest century in a period of glacial expansion that lasted from the early 14th century until the mid-19th century. The summer of 1641 was the third-coldest recorded over the past six centuries in Europe; the winter of 1641-42 was the coldest ever recorded in Scandinavia. The unusual cold that lasted from the 1620s until the 1690s included ice on both the Bosporus and the Baltic so thick that people could walk from one side to the other.
17世纪，冬季变得更长，夏季变得更凉，这扰乱了植物的生长季，导致欧洲各地粮食歉收。在从14世纪初一直延续到19世纪中叶的冰川扩张期中，这是最冷的一个世纪。1641年的夏天，是欧洲过去六个世纪以来温度第三低的夏天；1641年到1642年的冬天，是斯堪的纳维亚半岛有记录以来最冷的冬天。这种不同寻常的寒冷气候从17世纪20年代一直持续到17世纪90年代，博斯普鲁斯海峡和波罗的海上结起了厚厚的冰，人们可以从一边走到另一边。
The deep cold in Europe and extreme weather events elsewhere resulted in a series of droughts, floods and harvest failures that led to forced migrations, wars and revolutions. The fatal synergy between human and natural disasters eradicated perhaps one-third of the human population.
欧洲的极寒气候和其他地方的极端天气事件导致了一连串干旱、洪水和农作物歉收，这些灾害又引发了被迫迁徙、战争和革命。在天灾人祸的夹击之下，全球人口减少了大约三分之一。
There are two ways to consider the impact of climate change. We can predict the future based on current trends or we can study a well-documented episode of the past.
气候变化的影响可以采用两种方法来考虑，既可以根据目前的趋势来预测未来，也可以研究有详实记录的过去。
What happened in the 17th century suggests that altered weather conditions can have catastrophic political and social consequences. Today, the nation’s intelligence agencies have warned of similar repercussions as the planet warms — including more frequent but unpredictable crises involving water, food, energy supply chains and public health. States could fail, famine could overtake large populations and flood or disease could cross borders and lead to internal instability or international conflict.
17世纪发生的事情表明，气候状况的变化可能会导致灾难性的政治和社会后果。眼下，美国情报机构警告说，随着全球变暖，类似的灾难可能会重演——包括在水、食物、能源供应链和公共健康方面出现更加频繁、但却不可预知的危机。一些国家可能会崩溃，饥荒可能突然降临在大量人口之中，洪水或疾病可能跨越边界，导致国内动荡或国际冲突。
Earth scientists have discerned three factors at work globally during the 17th century: increased volcanic eruptions, twice as many El Niño episodes (unusually warm ocean conditions along the tropical west coast of South America), and the virtual disappearance of sunspots, reducing solar output to warm the Earth.
地球科学家们发现，在17世纪，有三个因素在全球范围内发挥了作用：火山爆发的次数增加，厄尔尼诺现象出现的次数翻了一番（沿热带的南美洲西海岸出现的异常温暖的海洋状况），以及太阳黑子的消失，减少了让地球保持温暖的太阳辐射输出。
The 17th century saw a proliferation of wars, civil wars and rebellions and more cases of state breakdown around the globe than any previous or subsequent age. Just in the year 1648, rebellions paralyzed both Russia (the largest state in the world) and France (the most populous state in Europe); civil wars broke out in Ukraine, England and Scotland; and irate subjects in Istanbul (Europe’s largest city) strangled Sultan Ibrahim.
17世纪，战争、内战和叛乱激增，全球各地瓦解的国家数量超过先前或之后的任何一个世纪。仅在1648年，俄罗斯（世界上最大的国家）和法国（欧洲人口最多的国家）就因叛乱而双双瘫痪；乌克兰、英格兰和苏格兰都爆发了内战；而在伊斯坦布尔（欧洲最大的城市），愤怒的臣民勒死了苏丹易卜拉欣(Ibrahim)。
Climate alone did not cause all the catastrophes of the 17th century, but it exacerbated many of them. Outbreaks of disease, especially smallpox and plague, tended to be more common when harvests were poor or failed. When an uprising by Irish Catholics on Oct. 23, 1641, drove the Protestant minority from their homes, no one had foreseen a severe cold snap, with heavy frost and snow at a time and in a place that rarely has snow. Thousands of Protestants died of exposure, turning a political protest into a massacre that cried out for vengeance. Oliver Cromwell would later use that episode to justify his brutal campaign to restore Protestant supremacy in Ireland.
气候并不是17世纪所有灾难的唯一元凶，但它恶化了很多灾难。在粮食歉收或者颗粒无收的时候，疾病爆发更为常见，尤其是天花和瘟疫。1641年10月23日，爱尔兰天主教徒发起的一场骚乱把属于少数派的新教徒赶出家园时，没有人预见到会出现严重的寒流和霜雪，因为那个地方那个时候出现降雪非常罕见。数以千计的新教徒被冻死，使一个政治抗议活动变成了一场点燃复仇火焰的大屠杀。奥利弗·克伦威尔(Oliver Cromwell)后来把这个事件作为他开展残酷运动，恢复新教在爱尔兰主导地位的缘由。
But the cold did take a more direct toll. Western Europe experienced the worst harvest of the century in 1648. Rioting broke out in Sicily, Stockholm and elsewhere when bread prices spiked. In the Alps, poor growing seasons became the norm in the 1640s, and records document the disappearance of fields, farmsteads and even whole villages as glaciers advanced to the farthest extent since the last Ice Age. One consequence of crop failures and food shortages stands out in French military records: Soldiers born in the second half of the 1600s were, on average, an inch shorter than those born after 1700, and those born in the famine years were noticeably shorter than the rest.
但是寒冷的确带来了更直接的损失。1648年，西欧遭遇了那个世纪最糟糕的粮食歉收。当面包价格出现飙升时，西西里岛、斯德哥尔摩等地爆发了骚乱。17世纪40年代，在阿尔卑斯山一带，农作物长势不好成为了一种常态，随着冰川蔓延到自上个冰河时代以来最远的地方，人们用文字记录了耕地、农庄、甚至整个村庄的消失。农作物歉收和粮食短缺清楚地反应在法国的军事记录中：出生在17世纪下半叶的士兵，平均身高比那些1700年后出生的士兵矮了一英寸，而出生在饥荒年的士兵明显比其他士兵个子矮。
No human intervention can avert volcanic eruptions, halt an El Niño episode or delay the onset of drought, despite the possibility that each could cause starvation, economic dislocation and political instability. But, unlike our ancestors who faced these changes 350 years ago, today we possess both the resources and the technology to prepare for them.
人为干预无法避免火山爆发，不能阻止厄尔尼诺现象，也无法推迟干旱的发生，虽然这每一种灾难都可能导致饥荒、经济混乱和政治动荡。但是，跟350年前面对这些变化的祖先相比，我们如今既有资源也有技术来做好应对它们的准备。
Britain’s chief scientific officer has warned, for instance, that in the face of a seemingly inexorable rise in sea levels, “We must either invest more in sustainable approaches to flood and coastal management or learn to live with increased flooding.” In short, we have only two choices: pay to prepare now — or prepare to pay much more later.
例如，英国的首席科学官已发出警告：海平面的上升似乎无可阻挡，面对这种情况，“我们要么对可持续的洪水治理和海岸管理进行更大的投入，要么学会忍耐更加普遍的洪灾。”总之我们只有两个选择：一是现在就把钱花在准备工作上，二是以后付出更大的代价。