Typhoon Haiyan has left an estimated 10,000 dead and hundreds of thousands homeless in the Philippines. And it has once again underscored for many development experts a cruel truth about climate change: It will hit the world’s poorest the hardest.
目前，台风“海燕”据估计已在菲律宾导致上万人死亡，数十万人无家可归。对发展领域的许多专家而言，它再次强调了一个关于气候变化的残酷事实：世界上最贫穷的地区通常受灾最严重。
“No nation will be immune to the impacts of climate change,” said a major World Bank report on the issue last year. “However, the distribution of impacts is likely to be inherently unequal and tilted against many of the world’s poorest regions, which have the least economic, institutional, scientific and technical capacity to cope and adapt.”
“没有哪个国家能免受气候变化的影响，”世界银行(World Bank)去年在一份以气候变化为主题的重要报告中说。“然而，这种影响的分布很可能具有必然的不平等性，而且倾向于分布在许多世界上最贫穷的地区。这些地区往往最缺乏应对和适应这种影响的经济、制度和科技能力。
That is the firmly established view of numerous national governments, development and aid groups and the United Nations as well. “It is the poorest of the poor in the world, and this includes poor people even in prosperous societies, who are going to be the worst hit,” said Rajenda Pachauri of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, speaking to reporters in Brussels back in 2007.
很多中央政府、发展和援助组织，还有联合国都非常认同这个观点。2007年，政府间气候变化专门委员会(Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)的拉金达·帕乔里(Rajenda Pachauri)在布鲁塞尔对记者说，“将受到最严重打击的是世界上穷人中的穷人，甚至包括繁荣社会中的穷人。”
The reason is twofold. First is the geography of climate change itself. The higher the latitude, the bigger the temperature increase. And generally, the farther from the equator, the wealthier the country — meaning rich countries like Norway and Canada might see a disproportionate impact from global warming.But poorer, lower-latitude regions are expected to face desertification and more-intense storms. The increase in the sea level might be 15 to 20 percent higher in the tropics than the global average, meaning flooding for coastal cities in regions like southern Asia.
其原因有两重。首先是气候变化本身的地理原理。纬度越高，升温的幅度就越大。一般而言，离赤道越远的国家就越富裕——这就意味着，挪威和加拿大等富裕国家因为全球变暖而受到不同程度的影响。但是，比较贫穷的、纬度较低的地区将会面临沙漠化和更剧烈的风暴。热带地区的海平面上升幅度可能比世界平均水平高15%至20%，也就是说南亚等地区的沿海城市可能会发生洪灾。
Droughts are also expected to increase significantly in lower-latitude areas, including in Africa and the Middle East. (The United States and Australia might also be hard hit, as the map below shows.)Moreover, in many countries, the vulnerable poor might cluster in areas where climate change might have a disproportionate impact, like flood zones and dry rural areas. Here’s the World Bank on the topic earlier this year: As the coastal cities of Africa and Asia expand, many of their poorest residents are being pushed to the edges of livable land and into the most dangerous zones for climate change. Their informal settlements cling to riverbanks and cluster in low-lying areas with poor drainage, few public services, and no protection from storm surges, sea-level rise, and flooding.
非洲和中东等低纬地区发生干旱的可能性也将大幅增加。（美国和澳大利亚可能也会受到严重影响，如下面的地图所示。）此外，在很多国家，抗灾能力较差的穷人可能会聚集在洪水区和农村干旱地区等受气候变化影响程度较大的地区。下面是世界银行今年早些时候就这个问题发表的观点：随着亚非地区沿海城市的扩张，许多处于社会底层的居民都被迫搬到了适宜居住区域的边缘，进入了最危险的气候变化地区。他们的临时住所通常位于河堤附近，集中在排水系统脆弱、公共服务欠缺，以及对风暴潮、海平面上升和洪灾毫无抵御能力的低地。
These communities – the poor in coastal cities and on low-lying islands – are among the world’s most vulnerable to climate change and the least able to marshal the resources to adapt, a new report finds. They face a world where climate change will increasingly threaten the food supplies of Sub-Saharan Africa and the farm fields and water resources of South Asia and South East Asia within the next three decades, while extreme weather puts their homes and lives at risk.The second, more significant reason is that the poorer the country, the harder it might be for it to respond to a changing climate.
一份新报告发现，这些社群——沿海城市和低洼岛屿上的穷人——是世界上对气候变化的抵御能力最差，也是最没有能力为了适应气候变化而调度资源的群体。这些人所面临的情况是：未来30年内，气候变化将对撒哈拉以南的非洲地区的食物供应，以及南亚和东南亚地区的农田和水资源造成更大威胁，与此同时，极端天气又在威胁他们的住所和生命。另一个，也更重要的原因就是，一个国家越贫穷，它应对气候变化的能力就越差。
Let’s take the example of a typhoon. Before a storm hits, building sturdy, secure houses and ensuring that a population has a plan for evacuation are critical to preserving life and property. Right after a storm, highways, search-and-rescue teams, helicopters, tractors, firefighters, hospitals and surgeons become critical for doing the same. Afterward, insurance, savings and a well-financed government response become necessary for rebuilding lives and cities. When it comes to such disasters, money matters.
以台风为例。风暴来袭前，建造安全结实的房屋，并且保证有人群疏散方案对保护生命和财产至关重要。风暴甫一发生，变得同样至关重要的是高速公路、搜救团队、直升机、牵引车、消防员、医院和外科医生。灾后，保险、储蓄和资金充足的政府应急行动成为重建民众生活和城市面貌的必需品。发生这样的灾害时，钱很重要。
The same goes for many other phenomena related to climate change caused by human activity. If a given area is getting drier and hotter, a subsistence farmer is going to face greater struggles than a diversified agricultural conglomerate. A shrinking water supply might be harder for Pakistan to manage than California. The same might be true for rising oceans.
与人类活动导致的气候变化相关的其他许多现象同样如此。如果某个地区的干旱与炎热现象日趋严重，勉强维持生计的农民会比多元化的农业集团企业面临更多的困难。巴基斯坦可能会比加利福尼亚更难以应对水源的缩减。在海平面上升问题上，或许也是这样。
For that reason, many poorer countries hold rich countries like the United States responsible for climate change, and want them to help pay for its effects. Carbon emissions, for instance, are correlated with income. The Philippines emits 0.9 metric tons of carbon per capita. The United States emits 17.6.
因此，很多较为贫穷的国家认为美国等发达国家应为气候变化负责，并且希望它们协助为气候变化的影响埋单。比方说，碳排放与收入相关。菲律宾的人均年碳排放为0.9吨，而美国是17.6吨。
Nations like Bangladesh, Palau and the Philippines have all made the case. “Each destructive typhoon season costs us 2 percent of our G.D.P., and the reconstruction costs a further 2 percent, which means we lose nearly 5 percent of our economy every year to storms,” said a Filipino climate negotiator last year. “We have received no climate finance to adapt or to prepare ourselves for typhoons and other extreme weather we are now experiencing. We have not seen any money from the rich countries to help us to adapt.”
孟加拉、帕劳和菲律宾等国均提出了这样的主张。“每个破坏性的台风季会让我们损失2%的GDP，重建又要损失2%。这就意味着，我们每年会因为风暴减少近5%的经济增长，”一名菲律宾气候谈判代表去年称。“我们没有收到任何资金，让我们去适应气候，或是为正在遭受的台风等极端天气做准备。我们也没有看到富裕国家提供任何经费来帮助我们进行适应。”
Without a global pact to stop warming and an overarching plan to mitigate its effects, the concern for development experts is that extreme weather might stall or even erase years of progress for the developing world. Hurricanes and floods will wash communities away. Drought will crush farms and increase hunger.
如果达不成阻止变暖的全球性条约，或是拿不出减缓其影响的综合计划，发展领域的专家担心，极端天气或许会拖累、乃至抹平发展中国家多年的进步。飓风和洪水将会冲走人类聚居区；干旱将摧毁农田、加重饥饿。
“Poverty reduction and climate change are linked,” said Dr. Jim Yong Kim, the president of the World Bank, in a commentary this year. “We have powerful new evidence that even if  climate change falls short of the much-discussed 4°C warmer world, we could witness the rolling back of decades of development gains and force tens of millions more to live in poverty.”
世界银行(World Bank)行长金墉博士(Jim Yong Kim)在今年发表的一篇评论文章中写到，“减少贫困与气候变化息息相关。我们看到有力的新证据表明，就算气候变化不及经常谈论的升温4摄氏度的局面，我们也可能会目睹几十年的发展所得逐渐烟消云散，迫使数以千万计的人们步入贫困。”
He concluded: “If we don’t confront climate change, we won’t end poverty.”
他得出结论：“不控制气候变化，我们就不能终结贫困。”