AS the world barrels toward a climate crisis of its own making, my country stands at the precipice. In the Marshall Islands, like elsewhere in the Pacific, climate change is no longer a distant threat, nor at the doorstep. Climate change is here.
随着世界失控地向着自我造成的气候危机飞驰，我的国家正站在悬崖边上。在马绍尔群岛，就像在太平洋中的其他地方一样，气候变化已不再是遥远的威胁，也不是即将降临的危险。气候变化已经在这里发生。
No one can seriously contest that humanity’s carbon-polluting ways are the main cause of global warming, and that the consequences are set to intensify. As Secretary of State John Kerry said earlier this month to an audience in the Marshall Islands, “The science is clear. It is irrefutable, and it is alarming.”
没有人能真正地质疑这个事实：人类制造的碳污染是全球变暖的主要原因，而且其后果还将进一步恶化。正如美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)本月早些时候在马绍尔群岛对听众所说的：“科学上很明确。这无可辩驳，也令人担忧。”
Nowhere in the world is this threat more immediate than in the Marshall Islands, a loose string of more than 1,000 small islands a short plane ride southwest of Hawaii. As one of only four low-lying coral atoll nations in the world, we are increasingly panicked by recent scientific reports suggesting that the world is currently heading for a three- to six-foot rise in sea levels by the end of the century. If such predictions are accurate, my country will be lost forever.
这种威胁对马绍尔群岛来说，比世界上所有地方面临的都更迫切。这个国家从夏威夷乘飞机很快可以到达，它由1000多个成串地散布在夏威夷西南方的小岛屿组成。全世界总共只有四个由低矮的环状珊瑚岛组成的国家，马绍尔群岛就是其中一个。最近的一些科学报告让我们越来越恐慌，因为报告显示，到本世纪末，地球的海平面将上升3到6英尺（约合0.9到1.8米）。如果这些预测是准确的，我的国家就会永远消失。
Earlier this year, I was forced to declare a state of disaster for our northern atolls after an unprecedented drought left thousands of our people without food or fresh water. Just six weeks later, a giant “king tide” hit our capital, Majuro, flooding the airport runway, some surrounding neighborhoods and even my own backyard as the waves crashed over a thick, protective sea wall — the second devastating climate disaster in two months.
今年早些时候，我不得不宣布我国北方的环状珊瑚岛处于灾难状态，因为那里遭遇了前所未有的干旱，成千上万的民众没有食物和淡水。六个星期后，一波巨大的“霸王潮”袭击了我们的首都马朱罗，海潮冲过一道厚厚的保护堤，淹没了机场跑道、周边的一些社区，甚至我自己的后院——这是两个月内我国发生的第二次毁灭性气候灾难。
Some have suggested that we move to higher ground, but in the Marshall Islands there isn’t any — and we are not prepared to abandon our country. Our land is our home, our heritage and our identity. We have survived existential threats before. In the aftermath of World War II, we endured the horror of 67 nuclear tests, the largest of which was 1,000 times more powerful than the Hiroshima bomb. As we believed then, and believe now: this is our country, and we will always stay here. If the water comes, it comes.
有人建议我们搬到地势较高的地方去，但马绍尔群岛上没有那样的地方，而我们还不打算放弃自己的国家。我们的土地就是我们的家，我们的传承，我们的身份。以前的一些生存威胁我们也熬过来了。第二次世界大战之后，我们忍受了67次恐怖的核试验，其中最大的一次威力比广岛原子弹强1000倍以上。我们当时相信，现在也仍然相信：这里是我们的国家，我们将永远居住在这里。如果水会淹过来，那就淹过来好了。
Even as the danger looms large, we in the Pacific are doing much more than waving our arms in distress. Earlier this month, the region’s leaders gathered in Majuro for the Pacific Islands Forum to consider our response to the climate challenge. On Sept. 5, we adopted the Majuro Declaration for Climate Leadership, which outlines the ambitious targets of our island states to accelerate their transition to low-carbon economies. The Cook Islands, Niue, Tuvalu and Vanuatu are all striving for 100 percent renewable energy by 2020, and Tonga, 50 percent by 2020. Our motive is not purely environmental. It comes from a common-sense realization that renewable energy is good for our economies, our energy security and the health of our populations. The message to the bigger countries is this: if we can do it, so can you.
就在更大的危险迫近之际，我们这些在太平洋中生活的人在做着比挥臂呼救更多的事情。本月早些时候，这个地区的领导者聚集在马朱罗，召开太平洋岛国论坛，考虑我们应该如何应对气候挑战。9月5日，我们通过了《气候领导行动马朱罗宣言》(Majuro Declaration for Climate Leadership) ，宣言概述了我们这些岛国加速向低碳经济转型的宏伟目标。到2020年前，库克群岛、纽埃、图瓦卢和瓦努阿图将100%地使用可再生能源，汤加则50%地使用可再生能源。我们的动机不单纯是出于环境的考虑，它来自一个常识性的认识：可再生能源有益于我们的经济、能源安全和人口健康。我们希望传达给那些大国这样的消息：我们能做到的事情，你们也能做到。
Central to the success of the Majuro Declaration will be the listing of new commitments from the world’s major emitters, particularly those around the Pacific Rim that together account for more than 60 percent of global emissions. Crucially, members of the United States delegation to the forum told us that they would support the Majuro Declaration and would submit President Obama’s Climate Action Plan in furtherance of their current emissions-reduction target.
《马朱罗宣言》要获得成功，关键在于温室气体排放大国做出新的承诺，尤其是环太平洋地区的国家，它们的合计排放量占全球排放量的60%以上。关键的是，美国代表团的成员在论坛上告诉我们，他们将支持《马朱罗宣言》，并会提交奥巴马总统的《气候行动计划》，以促成实现他们目前的减排目标。​
For too long, others have used American inaction as an excuse not to act themselves. The world needs American leadership on climate change. United States support for the Majuro Declaration could not be more welcome, and it is likely to spur action from others. At this month’s post-forum dialogue, we heard strong support for the Majuro Declaration from Britain, Indonesia, France, Thailand, Malaysia, South Korea, the Philippines and the European Union, and we look forward to their commitments as well. This is precisely the upward spiral we are seeking to spark.
长期以来，一些国家把美国的不作为当作自己不作为的借口。在气候变化问题上，世界需要美国发挥领导作用。美国支持《马朱罗宣言》是一件再好不过的事了，这可能会带动其他国家采取行动。在本月论坛之后的对话中，我们听到英国、印度尼西亚、法国、泰国、马来西亚、韩国、菲律宾和欧盟表示强烈支持《马朱罗宣言》，我们也期待它们做出承诺。这正是我们希望引发的“螺旋式进步”。
This week, I am in New York with my fellow Pacific leaders to seek broader support for the Majuro Declaration, and to present it to the secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, as our “Pacific gift” to his efforts to build political will for accelerating climate action, and the signing of a new global agreement in 2015. In doing so, we will call on countries, businesses and organizations to bring forward new commitments, and rededicate ourselves to finding a solution to the challenge of our generation. Nothing could be more important.
本周，我和太平洋地区的其他领导人在纽约为《马朱罗宣言》寻求更广泛的支持。我们把它作为我们带来的“太平洋礼物”呈交给联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)，感谢他促使形成政治意愿的努力，加速气候行动、以及在2015年签署一项新的全球协议需要这种政治意愿。通过这样做，我们将呼吁各个国家、企业和组织，为找到一个新方案，以解决我们这代人面临的挑战，再次作出贡献。没有比这个更重要的事情了。