THIS month, a report issued by a prominent military advisory board concluded that climate change posed a serious threat to America’s national security.
这个月，一个著名的军事顾问委员会发表报告，得出结论称，气候变化对美国的国家安全构成重大威胁。
The authors, 16 retired high-ranking officers, warned that droughts, rising seas and extreme weather events, among other environmental threats, were already causing global “instability and conflict.”
报告作者是16位退役的高级军官。他们警告，干旱、不断上升的海平面及极端天气事件等环境威胁，已经在造成全球性“动荡与冲突”。
But Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee and a stalwart believer that global warming is a “hoax,” dismissed the report as a publicity stunt.
不过，参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)的共和党资深委员、来自俄克拉何马州的詹姆斯·M·英霍夫(James M. Inhofe)坚信，全球变暖是个“骗局”，并将这份报告贬为宣传花招。
Perhaps the senator needs a history lesson, because climate change has been leading to global conflict — and even the collapse of civilizations — for more than 3,000 years. Drought and famine led to internal rebellions in some societies and the sacking of others, as people fleeing hardship at home became conquerors abroad.
或许英霍夫参议员需要学学历史，因为在过去3000多年里，气候变化一直在引发全球冲突——乃至文明的覆灭。干旱和饥荒导致有的社会发生内部叛乱，有的社会则遭外来势力洗劫，因为那些逃离内部苦难的人会转而对外征服。
One of the most vivid examples comes from around 1200 B.C. A centuries-long drought in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean regions, contributed to — if not caused — widespread famine, unrest and ultimately the destruction of many once prosperous cities, according to four recent studies.
一个最鲜明的例子来自公元前1200年前后。根据近期发表的四项研究，地中海东部与爱琴海地区当时遭受的长达几个世纪的干旱，对许多曾经繁荣昌盛的城邦所经历的普遍的饥荒、动荡及最终的覆灭起到了重要作用——如果不算是直接诱因的话。
The scientists determined the length and severity of the drought by examining ancient pollen as well as oxygen and carbon isotope data drawn from alluvial and mineral deposits. All of their conclusions are corroborated by correspondence, inscribed and fired on clay tablets, dating from that time.
通过研究古代花粉，以及从沉积物与矿床中获取的氧和碳的同位素数据，科学家们确定了这场干旱的时间跨度与严重性。他们的全部结论均得到了彼时镌刻烧制的泥版信件的印证。
Ancient letters from the Hittite kingdom, in what is now modern-day Turkey, beseech neighboring powers for shipments of grain to stave off famine caused by the drought. (The drought is thought to have affected much of what is now Greece, Israel, Lebanon and Syria for up to 300 years.) One letter, sent from a Hittite king, pleads for help: “It is a matter of life or death!”
位于今天土耳其境内的赫梯国，曾用这种古老文书恳请各大邻邦运来粮食，以暂时缓解干旱导致的饥荒。（这场干旱被认为影响了今天的希腊、以色列、黎巴嫩和叙利亚的大部分地区，时间跨度长达300年。）赫梯王的一封求援文书这样写道：“事关生死存亡。”
Another letter, sent from the city of Emar, in what is now inland Syria, states simply, “If you do not quickly arrive here, we ourselves will die of hunger.” The kingdom of Egypt, as well as the city of Ugarit, on the coast of what is now Syria, responded with food and supplies, but it is not clear if they were able to provide enough relief.
另一封文书发自位于今天的叙利亚内陆地区的艾马尔城。文中直接写道：“若不速速到来，吾等将卒于饥馑。”位于今天的叙利亚海岸的乌加里特城，以及埃及法老国做出了回应，送去了粮食和补给，但并不清楚是否足以赈灾。
It certainly created problems of national security for the great powers of the time. Correspondence between the Egyptians, Hittites, Canaanites, Cypriots, Minoans, Mycenaeans, Assyrians and Babylonians — effectively, the Group of 8 of the Late Bronze Age — includes warnings of attacks from enemy ships in the Mediterranean. The marauders are thought to have been the Sea Peoples, possibly from the western Mediterranean, who were probably fleeing their island homes because of the drought and famine and were moving across the Mediterranean as both refugees and conquerors.
这肯定对当时的强国造成了国家安全问题。埃及、赫梯、迦南、塞浦路斯、米诺斯、迈锡尼、亚述和巴比伦可谓青铜时代晚期的八国集团。在它们之间的文书往来中，包含对地中海上的敌军舰队攻击的警告。这些劫掠者被称为“海上民族”，或许来自地中海西部， 很可能是因为干旱与饥荒而逃离之前所在的岛国，以难民和征服者的双重身份跨越了地中海。
One letter sent to Ugarit advised the king to “be on the lookout for the enemy and make yourself very strong!” The warning probably came too late, for another letter dating from the same time states: “When your messenger arrived, the army was humiliated and the city was sacked. Our food in the threshing floors was burned and the vineyards were also destroyed. Our city is sacked. May you know it! May you know it!”
一封写给乌加里特王的文书建议其“提防外敌，巩固城防。”这一警告恐怕来得太迟，因为同一时期的另一封文书刻着：“信使抵城，军已破，城遭劫，禾场焚毁，果园尽失。吾城遭此大劫。望周知！望周知！”
While sea levels may not have been rising then, as they are now, changes in the water temperature may have been to blame for making life virtually unlivable in parts of the region.
尽管当时或许并未像现在这样，海平面持续上升，但水温的变化可能是该地区部分地方生活难以为继的元凶。
A 2012 study published in the Journal of Archaeological Science found that the surface temperatures of the Mediterranean Sea cooled rapidly during this time, severely reducing precipitation over the coasts. The study concluded that agriculture would have suffered and that the conditions might have influenced the “population declines, urban abandonments and long-distance migrations associated with the period.”
《考古学杂志》(Journal of Archaeological Science)2012年发表的一项研究发现，在那段时间里，地中海的洋面温度快速冷却，致使沿岸的降水量急剧减少。研究的结论是，当地农业受损，而且这些情况可能是影响“这一时期的人口下降、城邦废弃，以及长距离迁移”的因素。
To top it off, catastrophic events, in the form of a series of earthquakes, also rocked many ancient cities in these areas from around 1225 to 1175 B.C. These, together with the famines and droughts, would have further undermined the societies of the time, most likely leading to internal rebellions by the underclass and peasant populations who were facing severe food shortages, as well as invasions by migrating peoples.
更糟糕的是，从公元前1225年左右到公元前1175年，一系列的地震灾害事件，撼动了这些地区的许多古城。这些事件，连同饥荒和干旱可能进一步破坏了当时的社会，最有可能的是，导致内有面临着严重粮食短缺的下层阶级和农民在发动叛乱，外有移徙民族入侵。
We still do not know the specific details of the collapse at the end of the Late Bronze Age or how the cascade of events came to change society so drastically. But it is clear that climate change was one of the primary drivers, or stressors, leading to the societal breakdown.
我们尚不知道青铜时代晚期具体的颠覆细节，也不知道一系列事件如何让社会发生了如此彻底的变化。但有一点很明确，气候变化是主要的推动因素，或者说压力因素之一，导致了社会的瓦解。
The era that followed is known as the first Dark Ages, during which the thriving economy and cultures of the late second millennium B.C. suddenly ceased to exist. It took decades, and even hundreds of years in some areas, for the people in these regions to rebuild.
接下来的时期被称之为首个黑暗时代。在这期间，公元前第二个千年末期欣欣向荣的经济和文化突然不复存在。在这些地区的部分地方，人们用了几十年甚至数百年重建。