WASHINGTON — A sweeping new study on the effects of climate change — which the report says is already disrupting the lives and livelihoods of the poorest people across the planet — creates a diplomatic challenge for President Obama, who hopes to make action on both climate change and economic inequality hallmarks of his legacy.
华盛顿——关于气候变化影响的一项新研究产生了广泛的影响，研究报告认为气候变化已经干扰到地球上最贫困人群的生活和生计。报告也给奥巴马提出了一个外交难题，他一直希望在气候变化和经济不平等两项议题上采取行动，并使之成为自己的标志性政绩。
The report, published this week by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, concludes that the world’s poorest people will suffer the most as temperatures rise, with many of them already contending with food and water shortages, higher rates of disease and premature death, and the violent conflicts that result from those problems.
由政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）发布的报告认为，世界上最贫困的人口会随着气温升高承受最严重的后果，他们当中的很多人已经在面对艰难的境况，如粮食和水资源短缺，罹患疾病、过早死亡的比例升高，以及这些问题所导致的暴力冲突。
Countries like Bangladesh and several in sub-Saharan Africa that are the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change say the report strengthens their demand for “climate justice” — money, and plenty of it — from the world’s richest economies and corporations, which they blame for the problem.
在气候变化产生的影响面前最不堪一击的一些国家，如孟加拉国和撒哈拉以南非洲的几个国家表示，这一报告支持了他们向富裕经济体和大企业提出的“气候正义”诉求——也就是钱，很多的钱。他们将此问题归咎于富国和大型企业。
Those countries and nongovernmental organizations point to a 2009 pledge by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to create a $100 billion annual climate fund for poor countries by 2020. The World Bank justified such an expenditure in a 2010 report concluding that it would take up to $100 billion annually to offset the ravages of climate change on poor countries.
这些国家和非政府组织提到，国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在2009年许下过承诺，到2020年要设立一个每年1000亿美元（约合6200亿人民币）的气候专项基金，来援助穷国。世界银行(World Bank)在2010年的一份报告阐述了这一费用的合理性，得出结论认为要弥补穷国因为气候变化而遭受的损害，每年的花费最高要到1000亿美元。
Climate policy experts say that the United States, as the world’s largest economy, would be expected to provide $20 billion to $30 billion of that annual fund.
气候政策方面的专家称，作为世界最大的经济体，人们期望美国向这项年度基金提供200亿至300亿美元的资金。
That puts Mr. Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry, who has been working aggressively behind the scenes to forge a United Nations climate change treaty in 2015, in a tough position.
而这将奥巴马和国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)推到了一个艰难的境地，克里一直在幕后积极促成一项拟在2015年达成的联合国气候变化协定。
But both men know there is no chance that a Congress focused on cutting domestic spending and jump-starting the economy will enact legislation agreeing to a huge increase in so-called climate aid. Since 2010, the Obama administration has spent about $2.5 billion a year to help foreign countries adapt to climate change and adopt low-carbon energy technology.
但两人都明白，国会现今专注于削减国内支出和重振经济，要想通过立法大幅提高所谓的“气候援救”资金是不可能的。自2010年起，奥巴马政府每年支出大约25亿美元来帮助其他国家适应气候变化，以及推广低碳能源技术的应用。
Vulnerable nations, emboldened by the new United Nations report, are demanding more, not less, from the United States.
在联合国最新报告的鼓动下，这些易受损害的国家正在向美国索取更多，而不是更少。
Ronny Jumeau, the United Nations ambassador from the island nation of Seychelles, and a spokesman for the Alliance of Small Island States, compared the proposed fund with the amount of money Congress approved after Hurricane Sandy.
来自岛国塞舌尔的驻联合国大使罗尼·朱莫(Ronny Jumeau)比较了建议中的上述金额和飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)过后国会批准的拨款。朱莫同时也是小岛国联盟(Alliance of Small Island States)的发言人。
“We know that $100 billion is not going to be enough,” Mr. Jumeau said. “After Sandy, Congress voted for $60 billion in recovery for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut — for one storm. It shows you how much $100 billion is going to cover.”
“我们知道1000亿美元并不够，”朱莫说。“在‘桑迪’后，国会投票通过了600亿美元的拨款，用于纽约、新泽西和康涅狄格的重建——而这仅仅只是一场暴风雨过后。这说明了1000亿能做多少事。”
“The science is getting better, and it tells us things are getting worse for us,” he added. “And the money is not coming.”
“科学研究正在越来越完善，研究结果告诉我们，我们的境况正在越变越糟，”他补充道。“而且钱还没有到。”
The window is starting to close on Mr. Obama’s ability to broker a treaty that could significantly reduce greenhouse gas pollution in time to avoid the most disastrous effects of climate change. This fall, at the United Nations General Assembly, world leaders will meet to put offers on the table for a climate change pact, a mix of commitments to cut fossil fuel pollution at home and provide money to poor countries to adapt. A few months later, at a two-week summit meeting in Lima, Peru, they will negotiate a draft of a final treaty that is set to be signed next year in Paris and take effect in 2020.
要想协调达成一项及时、大幅削减温室气体污染的条约，进而避免气候变化最具灾难性的后果，奥巴马面前的时机已经不多了。今年秋天举行的联合国大会上，世界各国领导人将会把各自的诉求摆上台面，为达成一项气候变化协定讨价还价。协定中将包括在本国削减化石燃料污染，并向穷国提供资金援助，以促进它们做出转变的一系列承诺。再过几个月，他们会在秘鲁利马举行一场为期两周的峰会，通过谈判起草一份最终的条约，该条约将于明年在巴黎签署，2020年生效。
Diplomats say the new report has increased pressure on governments to reach a climate deal.
外交官表示，新的报告加大了各国政府在达成气候变化协议方面所面临的压力。
“By underscoring impacts and vulnerabilities, the report makes clear the urgency for strong action to reduce emissions and build greater resilience,” said Todd D. Stern, the State Department’s chief climate change negotiator.
美国国务院首席气候变化谈判代表托德·D·斯特恩(Todd D. Stern)说，“报告强调了影响和后果，清晰地表明了采取有力行动减少排放、提升应对能力的紧迫性。”
In a speech in London last fall, Mr. Stern made clear that there was no chance that the United States would finance most of any climate adaptation fund with taxpayer dollars. “The fiscal reality of the United States and other developed countries is not going to allow it,” he said.
斯特恩去年秋天在伦敦发表讲话时明确表示，不可能让美国用纳税人的钱，在任何应对气候变化的基金中提供多数资金。他说，“美国以及其他发达国家的财政现实不允许这样做。”
Mr. Stern and others say the bulk of that money will have to come from private investors and corporations.
斯特恩及其他人表示，这些资金中，大多数必须来源于私人投资者和企业。