New York City, which has the largest Chinese population of any city outside Asia, will celebrate the Lunar New Year with a bang on Jan. 31, heralding the start of the Year of the Horse. According to “The Race for the Chinese Zodiac,” by Gabrielle Wang, with illustrations by Sally Rippin, “horses are funny, popular, fearless and hard-working. … They are also confident, spirited, honest, sensitive and brave.” Those born in 1930, 1942, 1954, 1966, 1978, 1990 and 2002 (and any babies expected in 2014) can count themselves lucky to be born under the energetic Equus.
纽约市是亚洲之外华裔最多的城市，它将在1月31日热烈庆祝农历新年——马年。据加布里埃尔·王(Gabrielle Wang)编写、萨莉·里平(Sally Rippin)绘图的《生肖比赛》(The Race for the Chinese Zodiac)说，“马有趣、广受欢迎、无畏、勤劳。……而且它们自信、有活力、诚实、敏感、勇敢。”生于1930年、1942年、1954年、1966年、1978年、1990年和2002年的人（以及将在2014年出生的婴儿）可以认为自己非常幸运，因为他们出生在这个活力充沛的年份里。
Children excited by the New Year’s firecrackers and parade may well wonder about the origins of the zodiac cycle. “The Race for the Chinese Zodiac” recounts the legend of how the Jade Emperor, ruler of Heaven and Earth, assigned each of 12 animals a different year. The emperor announces that he will hold a competition:
为新年的鞭炮声和游行感到兴奋的孩子们可能很想知道十二生肖的起源。《生肖比赛》讲述了天地间的统治者玉帝用12个动物给十二宫命名的传说。玉帝宣布他将举办一场比赛：
“The first 12 animals to cross the river will each have a year named after them.”
“前12个过河的动物将获得以自己命名的年份。”
And so the animals cross the water, each in its own way. Courageous Tiger has no trouble swimming and strikes out into the river “with his powerful paws.” Smaller creatures, however, must form alliances: “Charming Rat and Friendly Cat were very good friends. They did everything together. ‘Take us across on your back, Ox, and we will show you the way.’ Kind Ox agreed and they climbed on board.”
动物们用各自的方式过河。勇敢的老虎游泳没问题，他“用有力的爪子”游过了河。小动物们则需要结盟：“迷人的老鼠和友好的猫是很好的朋友。他们做什么事都在一起。‘牛，让我们坐在你的背上过河吧，我们会给你指路。’好心肠的牛同意了，他们爬了上去。”
Readers may be surprised by the characterization of Rat as a friend to Cat; today, the two seem to be mortal enemies. The legend provides the back story: Rat may be charming, but he’s ruthless, and in the middle of the river, he pushes poor Cat off Ox’s back. As the creatures make it to shore, the emperor names a year after them, in the order in which they arrive. But Rat’s cruelty means Cat is left out, and “that is why, to this very day, cats have hated rats.”
读者们可能很奇怪：为什么把老鼠写成猫的朋友——他们现在好像是死敌。这个传说讲出了幕后的故事：老鼠也许很迷人，但他很无情，在河中间把可怜的猫推下了牛背。动物们上岸后，玉帝按照他们到达的顺序，逐个用他们的名字命名一个年份。但是老鼠的无情意味着猫出局了，“所以猫直到现在还很恨老鼠。”
Other children’s books have told this tale, but Wang and Rippin’s version is especially attractive and conveys the look of ancient China. Writer and artist both live in Melbourne; Wang’s great-grandfather emigrated from China in the 1850s, and Rippin, who spent much of her childhood in Southeast Asia, studied traditional painting in Shanghai and Hangzhou.
其他童书也讲过这个故事，但是王和里平的版本特别吸引人，有中国的古趣。她们都住在墨尔本，王的曾祖父在19世纪50年代从中国移民到澳洲，里平的童年大部分是在东南亚度过的，曾在上海和杭州学习中国传统绘画。
In “The Race for the Chinese Zodiac,” Rippin paints with traditional Chinese ink on watercolor paper and created linocut “chops” — or stamps — showing the Chinese characters for each creature. Ochre backgrounds give the pages an aged look, but there’s something unmistakably modern and accessible about the alternately kind, curious and cunning expressions on the animals’ faces.
在《生肖比赛》中，里平用中国传统水墨在水彩画纸上绘画，并为每个动物名字对应的中文汉字设计了一个浮雕般的印章。红褐色的背景让画面有一种古老的感觉，但是动物们脸上友善、好奇或狡猾的表情却又是现代的，令人感到亲切。
The legend of the zodiac is typical of children’s animal stories in that the animals are characterized as having distinct personalities that then determine their actions. What makes the zodiac different from many such stories, however, is that bad behavior — like Rat’s — isn’t penalized. Cat loses his place in the zodiac despite being the victim of Rat’s duplicity; the Jade Emperor does not intervene. It’s an interesting difference to discuss and consider, though however we may judge Rat’s ambition, his days of being thought charming are probably gone for good.
生肖传说是典型的儿童动物故事——动物们有独特的个性，而个性又决定了行为。不过，生肖故事和其他很多这样的故事的不同之处在于，像老鼠做出的那种恶劣行为却没有受到惩罚。尽管猫是老鼠使诈的受害者，失去了在十二生肖中的位置，但玉帝也没来主持公道。这是个值得讨论和考虑的有趣的区别，但是不管我们如何评价老鼠的野心，他再也不会被人认为是迷人的动物了。