DAMASCUS, Syria — Some five million Syrians are now refugees in their own country, many living hand-to-mouth in vacant buildings, schools, mosques, parks and the cramped homes of relatives. Others are trapped in neighborhoods isolated by military blockades, beyond the reach of aid groups. Already desperately short of food and medicine as winter closes in, they could begin to succumb in greater numbers to hunger and exposure, aid workers say.
叙利亚大马士革——现在，有500万左右的叙利亚人在自己的国家成了难民，他们中的许多人生活在空置的建筑里、校舍里、清真寺里、公园里和亲戚们拥挤不堪的家里，过着勉强糊口的日子。还有一些人困在了因军事封锁而隔绝的街区里，救援组织对这些地方鞭长莫及。救援人员说，随着冬季临近，在本已极度缺食少药的难民中，会有越来越多的人可能抵挡不住饥饿和严寒的折磨。
The long civil war has forced two million Syrians outside the country‘s borders, but more than twice that number face mounting privations at home, and the toll keeps rising. The deepening humanitarian crisis threatens to set the country’s development back decades and dwarfs any aid effort that could conceivably be carried out while the conflict continues, aid workers and analysts say.
漫长的内战已经迫使200万叙利亚人逃出本国，然而，国内还有超过上述数字两倍多的人口，面临着物资匮乏加剧的情况，死亡人数不断增加。救援人员和分析人士说，日渐加深的人道主义危机眼看就要让叙利亚的发展倒退几十年，让任何人们构想中能够开展的救援努力都功亏一篑，与此同时，冲突仍在继续。
The cost of replacing damaged homes and infrastructure alone is estimated at more than $30 billion, and the ruin mounts daily. More than half of the country’s hospitals are destroyed or closed, and according to Save the Children a fifth of Syrian families go without food one week a month. Syria’s economy has shrunk by half.
据估计，单是修复受损房屋和基础设施的投入，就已经超过了300亿美元（约合1824亿元人民币），而破坏每天都还在增加。叙利亚有一半多医院被毁或关闭，根据救助儿童会(Save the Children)的数据，有五分之一叙利亚家庭每月都有一周吃不上东西。叙利亚的经济规模已经萎缩了一半。
Even in relatively safe areas, a closer look at bustling streets reveals the displaced spilling from every corner. Thousands of people live in the gyms and hallways of a sports complex turned state-run shelter in the coastal city of Latakia. In the capital, Damascus, newcomers crowd ramshackle hotels, half-finished buildings, offices and storefronts. Long lines form outside the shrinking number of government bakeries still operating. In some of the suburbs, people have confessed to eating dogs and cats, and imams have even issued decrees saying it is religiously permissible.
即使在相对安全的区域，仔细观察熙熙攘攘的街道，就会发现流离失所的难民随处可见。在海滨城市拉塔基亚，有数千人住在由一所综合体育馆改建成的官方避难所的场地及过道上。在首都大马士革，新到者挤在摇摇欲坠的旅馆里、建了一半的建筑里、办公楼里和店铺里。仍在营业的国有面包店外总是排着长龙，而这些面包店的数量每天都在减少。在一些郊区，人们承认靠吃狗肉和猫肉果腹，伊玛目甚至已经发布条例，表示从宗教上说，他们可以这么做。
Outside the Umayyad Mosque in the heart of old Damascus, Nasreen, 25, cradled her baby in her lap one recent evening. She and her siblings, husband and parents, who declined to give their family name for fear of reprisals, were cramped into a single room nearby, having fled the suburb of Daraya after their home was damaged.
最近的一个夜晚，在位于大马士革老城中心区的伍麦叶清真寺(Umayyad Mosque)外，25岁的纳斯丽恩(Nasreen)把自己的宝宝抱在腿上。家里的房子被毁之后，她就和兄弟姐妹、丈夫及父母逃离了达拉亚郊区，被迫挤住在附近的一间屋子里，由于害怕报复，她和家人拒绝说出自己的姓。
With rising rent depleting their savings, and the shop they relied on for income now sealed off behind a government blockade, they accept occasional handouts from neighborhood organizations. But what weighs on them most are thoughts of the future: They said they could not imagine when or how they might return to a hometown where entire blocks have been bombed to rubble.
日渐上涨的租金消耗着他们的存款，他们赖以为生的店铺位于政府封锁区内，现已被封，他们不得不接受街道组织偶尔提供的救济。然而，让他们最苦恼的是对未来的想法：他们说，想不出自己何时或者如何才能返回家乡，那里的许多街区都已被炸成了废墟。
“We have only God,” she said.
她说，“我们只有真主。”
Even those still in their homes are increasingly suffering as inflation soars and food shortages grow, especially in areas blockaded by the government or rebels. Many are angry and mystified that more help has not reached them from the outside world.
即便对那些依然住在家里的人来说，通胀率飙升、食品短缺不断加重，日子越来越艰难，特别是在被政府或反政府武装封锁的地区，情况尤为严重。许多人感到愤怒而困惑的是，他们还是没能得到来自外界的更多帮助。
A $1.5 billion international aid effort, carried out under dangerous and politically charged conditions by the United Nations, the Syrian Arab Red Crescent and smaller local organizations, provides stopgap food, schooling and medicine to millions of people. But it is underfinanced, covers just a fraction of the needs, fails to reach people in blockaded areas and does not begin to address the collapse of Syria’s health, education and economic infrastructure and its devastating implications for the country’s future, aid officials in Syria and across the region say.
在危险的、政治气氛紧张的形势下，联合国(United Nations)、叙利亚阿拉伯红新月会(Syrian Arab Red Crescent)和较小的一些地方组织共同开展了一次价值15亿美元的救援行动，给数百万人提供了临时的食品、学校教育和药品救济。叙利亚和整个地区各处的救援官员说，尽管如此，由于资金短缺，只有一小部分需求得到了满足，无法照顾到封锁区的民众，也没能着手应对叙利亚卫生、教育系统和经济基础设施的崩溃，以及它们给国家未来可能带来的灾难性影响。
“If we continue to deal with this crisis as a short-term disaster instead of a long-term effort, the region will face even more severe consequences,” Neal Keny-Guyer, the chief executive of Mercy Corps, wrote recently, calling for increased American financing and a new focus on longer-term development projects, like repairing water infrastructure.
“如果我们继续把此次危机当成短期灾难对待，而不采取着眼长远的应对措施，该区域将面临甚至更为严重的后果，”国际美慈组织(Mercy Corps)首席执行官金志高(Neal Keny-Guyer)近来写道。他呼吁美国增加资金的投入，再次把关注点放在长期发展项目上，比如修复水利基础设施。
Some go further, saying that the only meaningful humanitarian action now is to end the fighting.
有些人更进一步，他们说，目前唯一有意义的人道主义行动，就是结束战争。
Omar Abdelaziz al-Hallaj, an independent Syrian adviser to aid, development and conflict resolution efforts in the region, told the Lebanese Economic Association in Beirut recently that the focus must be shifted “from saving a few lives to saving more lives by halting the violence.”
奥马尔·阿卜杜勒-阿齐兹·哈拉杰(Omar Abdelaziz al-Hallaj)是一名独立的叙利亚顾问，对该地区的援助、发展和冲突解决工作提供咨询建议。最近，他告诉贝鲁特的黎巴嫩经济协会(Lebanese Economic Association)必须转移重点，“从挽救几条生命，转移到通过阻止暴力，挽救更多的生命上”。
The war, Mr. Hallaj and United Nations officials in Syria said, is disintegrating administrative and social structures at a pace that makes it impossible to deliver adequate aid even if financing were available, which it is not. “No donor funds have ever been known to be given in the magnitude of aid needed in Syria,” Mr. Hallaj said.
哈拉杰和联合国在叙利亚的官员表示，这场战争正在迅速瓦解该国的行政和社会结构，在这样快的节奏下，即使有足够的资金，也无法完成适当的援助，更何况还没有。“还没有听说过，有人曾捐出过叙利亚所需规模的援助金，”哈拉杰说。
To help the more than six million people displaced or severely affected by the crisis inside Syria, the United Nations has asked for $1.5 billion, far less than the $3 billion it has requested to aid the two million refugees outside the country. The discrepancy stems in part from United Nations principles of dealing with sovereign states, under which the plan is intended only to support efforts led by the Syrian government. That creates a politically awkward situation, in that much of the need is in rebel-held areas.
为了帮助叙利亚国内因这场危机而流离失所的600多万人口，或是生活因此遭受严重影响的人，联合国要求提供15亿美元资金，远远低于它要求用来帮助叙利亚国外200万难民的30亿美元。这种差异源于联合国处理主权国家事务的原则，在这个原则下，该项目只会为叙利亚政府牵头的援助工作提供支持。这导致了政治上的一个尴尬局面，因为需要援助的人很多都在反政府军占领的地区。
If the war goes on for another year, Mr. Hallaj said, Syria “will be reduced to the bottom of the development ladder, along with countries like Somalia and Yemen,” a shocking fall for a country that before the war produced most of its own food and medicine, and despite worsening economic inequality had a strong social safety net and educational system by regional standards.
哈拉杰说，如果战事再延续一年，叙利亚“就会下滑到发展阶梯的底部，跟索马里和也门这样的国家处在同等水平”，这样的下滑令人震惊，因为在战争爆发之前，叙利亚的食品和药品大部分都能自给自足，而且，虽然经济上的不平等持续恶化，但以地区标准来看，该国过去有着强大的社会安全保障体系和教育体系。
Barbara Atherly, the head of Unicef’s education program in Syria, said that the agency was providing one million children with schooling, increasingly by distributing educational materials to families and communities to organize lessons themselves, since many schools have been destroyed and teachers have dispersed.
联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)在叙利亚的教育项目负责人芭芭拉·阿瑟利(Barbara Atherly)说，该机构为100万儿童提供教育援助，把教育资料分发给自行组织教学的家庭和社区的情况越来越多，因为很多学校遭到毁损，教师也纷纷离开。
But more than three million children are directly affected by the crisis, Unicef’s Syria director, Youssouf Abdel-Jelil, said, including more than two million internally displaced and another million in hard-to-reach conflict areas. That does not include more than a million children who have fled the country.
但是，有300多万儿童遭受了这场危机的直接影响，联合国儿童基金会在叙利亚的主管优素福·阿卜杜勒-贾利勒(Youssouf Abdel-Jelil)说，其中包括国内逾200万流离失所的儿童，还有100万生活在难以触及的冲突地区的儿童。这还不包括100多万已经逃离该国的儿童。
Over all, two million children have not had regular access to schooling in the past year, he said, adding that as the conflict continues, “there is a real risk of a lost generation of Syrians.”
他说，在过去一年中，总共有200万儿童无法正常上学，随着冲突继续发展，“叙利亚有一代人可能会被断送，这种风险真实存在。”
The World Food Program is feeding three million people a month, plying dangerous roads with 1,200 trucks and employing 9,000 people. But that leaves two million displaced people without food aid, and understates the need in pockets where deliveries have not reached in months.
目前，世界粮食计划署(World Food Program)每月为300万人提供食品，有1200辆卡车在危险的道路上行驶，并且雇佣了9000人。但是还有200万流离失所者没有获得粮食援助，而且一些封锁区的需求被低估了，粮食已经有几个月难以送达这些地区。
Those areas include rebel-held suburbs of Damascus blockaded by the government and government-held parts of Aleppo.
这些地区包括遭到政府封锁的、被反政府军占领的大马士革郊区，以及阿勒颇被政府占领的地区。
“Their situation is dire,” said Matthew Hollingworth, the food program’s Syria director. Hundreds of thousands of people are living on what food they can grow and the small amounts of food they can get past checkpoints, he said, as stored food stocks dwindle “to a frighteningly low level.”
“那里的情况糟糕得可怕，”粮食计划署在叙利亚的主管马修·霍林沃思(Matthew Hollingworth)说。数十万人依靠他们可以种出来的粮食以及可以运过关卡的少量粮食生活，他说，粮食库存量减少到了“低得吓人的水平”。
Tarik Jasarevic, a spokesman for the World Health Organization, said that replacing the prescription drugs once provided by the government would cost $500 million yearly, dwarfing his agency’s entire budget in Syria.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)发言人塔里克·贾萨瑞维奇(Tarik Jasarevic)说，提供原本由政府供应的处方药每年将需要5亿美元，令该组织在叙利亚的全部预算相形见绌。
In the southern province of Dara’a, a third of health workers have fled, especially from rural areas, Mr. Abdel-Jelil of Unicef said. He described one woman who crossed the front lines to bring her children to the city for vaccines.
在南部省份德拉，三分之一的卫生工作者已经逃离，尤其是农村地区，联合国儿童基金会的阿卜杜勒-贾利勒说。他提到一个女人带着孩子穿越前线，以便去城市里接种儿童疫苗。
Most of all, he said, children are paying the price in terms of health, education and psychological trauma.
最重要的问题是，他说，孩子们正在健康、教育和心理创伤方面付出代价。
“A lot are talking adult talk, about visas, about borders, about relatives who are outside of the country,” Mr. Abdel-Jelil said. “They still have dignity and resilience. But there is a limit to resilience.”
“很多孩子在谈论成年人的话题，比如签证、边界、国外的亲戚，”阿卜杜勒-贾利勒说，“他们现在仍然有尊严和复原能力。但是复原能力是有限度的。”