SEATTLE — When an office building here that bills itself as the world’s greenest officially opens later this month, it will present itself as a “living building zoo,” with docents leading tours and smartphone-wielding tourists able to scan bar codes to learn about the artfully exposed mechanical and electrical systems.
西雅图——一栋号称“全球最环保建筑”的写字楼，将于本月（2013年4月——译注）正式开盘。届时，它将全方位展现自身作为“生态建筑园”(living building zoo)的独特风貌。讲解员将带领来访者全程参观，手持智能手机的来访者，可以扫描条形码，了解楼内陈设美观的机械和电气系统。
Tenants have already begun moving into the six-story Bullitt Center, in advance of its grand opening on Earth Day, April 22. With the final touches nearly complete on the 50,000-square-foot office building at 1501 East Madison Street, at the edge of the city’s Capitol Hill neighborhood, its occupants are about to embark upon an unparalleled — and very public — experiment in sustainability.
这栋名为布利特中心(Bullitt Center)的六层写字楼，于4月22日“世界地球日”(Earth Day)这天盛大开盘。而此前，已经有租户开始进驻了。写字楼占地50000平方英尺（约合4645平方米），位于东麦迪逊街(East Madison Street)1501号，地处国会山（Capitol Hill，这里指西雅图市的一个住宅区，不同于华盛顿的国会山——译注）社区边缘。楼盘最后阶段的施工眼看就要大功告成，等待入驻者的，将是一场前所未有而又非常公开的可持续发展实验。
Once settled in, they will be guinea pigs in a $30 million living laboratory distinguished by its composting toilets, strict energy and water budgets and a conspicuous lack of on-site parking. To earn its environmental bragging rights, the Bullitt Center must complete a rigorous one-year certification process called the Living Building Challenge, which requires both water and energy self-sufficiency, among a list of 20 demands.
一旦入驻，租户就会像小白鼠一样，生活在耗资3千万美元（约合人民币1.8亿元）的“生态实验室”里。这个“实验室”与众不同的地方在于，内部设有堆肥间，写字楼的能耗量和用水量受到严格限制，尤其惹眼的是，它没有配套停车场。要想赢得在环保问题上自吹自擂的资格，布利特中心必须经历为期一年的严格认证，称为“生态建筑挑战”(Living Building Challenge)，包含20项指标。其中一项规定，接受认证者必须在用水和能耗上实现自给自足。
Provided that the building clears a few remaining regulatory hurdles, all its water will be supplied by rainwater collected in a 56,000-gallon cistern before being filtered and disinfected. A rooftop array of photovoltaic panels, extending beyond the building like the brim of a graduation mortarboard, will produce an estimated 230,000 kilowatt-hours a year, hopefully just enough to break even for a building that is 83 percent more efficient than the city’s typical commercial site.
在一些管理规则方面的遗留问题被解决后，布利特中心的所有生活用水将采用雨水供应。具体做法是用一座56000加仑（约合212立方米）的蓄水池收集雨水，然后将其过滤、消毒。屋顶设有一排太阳能电池板，像学位帽的帽檐般伸出屋顶，预计一年的发电量为230000千瓦。如果能达到这一水平，就相当于其能效比西雅图市的普通商业地产要高出83%。
The project’s backers, led by the environmentally minded Bullitt Foundation, hope to demonstrate that a carbon-neutral office space can be commercially viable and aesthetically stunning without saddling its occupants with onerous demands. And they are determined to make their strategy and performance so transparent that it can be easily copied.
布利特中心这个开发项目，由重视环保的布利特基金会(Bullitt Foundation)牵头，其宗旨是向公众展示，碳中性（指能源在生产及使用过程中达到二氧化碳排放平衡——译注）的办公空间在商业上是可行的，而且具有惊人的美感，不会给入驻者带来繁重的负担。同时，他们决意将其项目策略和执行过程都公之于众，使之能够被轻易效仿。
Instead of tucking the mechanical and electrical rooms out of sight, for example, large plate glass windows will showcase the engineering, while quick response codes tag points of interest so tourists can use their smartphones to learn about individual elements, according to Chris Rogers, the chief executive and partner of the developer, Point32.
比如说，据开发商Point32的行政总裁兼合伙人克里斯·罗杰斯(Chris Rogers)介绍，这栋写字楼的机械和配电室并未被遮盖起来，而是采用大型平板玻璃窗，使其内部装置一览无余。在来访者可能感兴趣的地方，还印有快速响应码。人们可以用智能手机扫描响应码，来了解单个部件的详细信息。
A kiosk in a double-height exhibition space will also let visitors access real-time measurements like the building’s indoor air quality, energy consumption, photovoltaic power production and water levels. The Bullitt Center, in fact, will be one of the planet’s most closely monitored commercial buildings, allowing managers to single out energy hogs down to the level of individual plugs, said Robert B. Peña, an associate professor of architecture in the Integrated Design Lab at the University of Washington.
双层挑高的展览室内设有信息亭，来访者可以在此观测到写字楼的实时测量数据，比如楼中的室内空气质量、能耗量、光伏发电量和水位。华盛顿大学整体设计实验室(Integrated Design Lab)的建筑学副教授罗伯特·B·佩纳(Robert B. Peña)说，事实上，布利特中心将成为全球监控最严密的商业地产楼盘，能耗监控可以精确追溯到每台电器的插头上。这样一来，管理者就能轻易找出能耗大头了。
If the building is still the highest-performing one of its kind 10 years from now, said Denis Hayes, president and chief executive of the Bullitt Foundation, the experiment will have failed.
布利特基金会的总裁和首席执行官丹尼斯·海耶斯(Denis Hayes)说，如果十年后，这栋建筑依然是最出色的环保建筑，那就说明他们的实验失败了。
The Living Building Challenge’s imperatives go far beyond those of the better-known LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification. Its yearlong vetting process is designed in part to avoid the embarrassment suffered by some LEED certified buildings, where seemingly efficient buildings have proven to be much less so after the buildings have been completed and undergone energy audits.
“生态建筑挑战”的指标，比名气更大的LEED认证（Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design，绿色能源与环境设计先锋奖）要严苛得多。有些LEED认证建筑虽然看似能效很高，但在竣工之后、接受能源审计之时，其实际表现大不如人意。而“生态建筑挑战”的考察过程之所以长达一年，部分原因就是为了避免出现这样的尴尬情况。
While a number of states, counties and municipalities provide tax credits and fee reductions for LEED structures, only a few municipalities have followed suit so far for the newer Living Building Challenge. Nevertheless, proponents say that avoiding energy and water utility bills for 250 years, the expected life span of the Bullitt Center, offers its own compelling financial incentives.
尽管不少州、县和市政当局为LEED认证建筑提供了抵税额度和减免费用的优惠，但到目前为止，只有少数市政当局将同等待遇给予了历史较短的“生态建筑挑战”。不过环保人士表示，布利特中心的预计寿命为250年，在此时间跨度当中，都无需缴纳水费和能耗费。这一点，在财务上本身就是一个强有力的自我激励。
The Living Building Challenge has 143 registered projects in 10 countries. Its process is so demanding, however, that only three buildings in the United States have been fully certified so far; the largest of those is an eighth the size of the Bullitt Center.
“生态建筑挑战”在十个国家拥有143个注册项目。然而，由于其指标太过严苛，目前为止，美国只有三个楼盘完全通过了验证；其中最大的楼盘，只有布利特中心八分之一的规模。
So much potential energy savings has already been wrung out of the building in its construction that nearly half of the expected electricity use will depend on what’s plugged into the outlets. Every tenant will be expected to abide by strict annual usage budgets or pay for overages, but extra-fine electrical circuits and detailed outlet metering can help diagnose problem spots down to, say, a malfunctioning printer.
在建筑设计上，布利特中心已经非常充分地发挥了自身的节能潜力，因此，其用电量有近一半将取决于插座上接入的电器是何类型。每名租户都必须遵守严格的年度用电限额，并为超额部分付费。不过，格外精良的电路设计和细致入微的插座计量，有助于锁定耗电症结所在。连打印机故障这种小问题都能在计量数据上反映出来。
Mr. Hayes is keenly aware that the building’s success depends upon its attractiveness to tenants, and his development team is promoting several distinctive features, including the fact that it may be the first heavy-timber midrise building erected in Seattle since the 1920s. The timber and steel frame uses native Douglas fir certified by the Forest Stewardship Council. The exposed wood ceilings on the 13-foot-high upper floors also contribute to an airy loftlike feel, with exposed steel cross braces and 10-foot-high windows that maximize daylight.
海耶斯敏锐地意识到，布利特中心的成功取决于它对租户的吸引力。因此，海耶斯的开发团队正着力宣传这栋写字楼的几大标志性特色，其中之一就在于，布利特中心是西雅图自上世纪20年代以来的第一栋重型木结构中层大厦。写字楼的木材与钢架混合结构，采用了森林管理委员会(Forest Stewardship Council)认证的道格拉斯冷杉。较高楼层内的13英尺（约4米）高的裸露的木质天花板，加上外露的钢铁交叉支架和10英尺（约3米）高的窗户，就衬托出一种充满空间感的类跃层风格。
Another signature feature, a glass-enclosed stairwell that Mr. Hayes has named the “irresistible stairway,” rewards climbers with panoramic views of downtown and Puget Sound. The behavioral carrot, aimed at promoting both health and energy conservation, has been juxtaposed with the stick of a slow and less conveniently sited elevator that requires key card access. With advertised lease rates of $28 to $30 a square foot, the building is in line with comparable properties.
另一大标志性的特色，体现在设有玻璃围栏的楼梯井上。海耶斯称其为“让人无法抗拒的楼梯”。走楼梯的人可以俯瞰闹市区和普吉特海湾(Puget Sound)的全景。这样的设计是开发团队为了改善租户健康、倡导节能环保而采取的“胡萝卜加大棒”策略。一方面，正如上面提到的那样，走楼梯可以欣赏美景；另一方面，电梯不仅位置不便，而且只能凭借钥匙卡乘用。广告显示，布利特中心的租金为每平方英尺28到30美元（约合每平方米人民币1900到2033元），与同类地产的租金水平相当。
It helps that a group of enthusiastic early adopters has already leased more than two-thirds of the available office space. That group includes several organizations and companies heavily invested in the project’s success: PAE Consulting Engineers, the building’s lead engineering firm; the developer Point32, which will manage a 40-desk co-working space; the Integrated Design Lab, which played a major consulting role and will have both office space and a 40-seat classroom; and the International Living Future Institute, which since 2006 has run the Living Building Challenge.
一群热心环保的先锋人士，已经从现有办公空间中租下了超过三分之二的面积。这一点也有助于吸引潜在租户。既有租户包括好几家在项目上投入重金的组织和公司，包括项目的领军工程公司PAE Consulting Engineers，开发商Point32将租用包含40张桌子的共用工作空间(co-working space)，整体设计实验室作为项目的主要顾问，在租用办公空间之余，还将租下一间设有40个座位的教室，以及自2006年来一直在运营“生态建筑挑战”的国际生态未来研究所(International Living Future Institute)。
The pioneering spirit resonates strongly with other tenants-to-be like Michele Gomes, co-owner and chief creative officer of Interchange Media Art Productions, a video and television production company.
这些组织和公司表现出来的先锋精神，引起了其他准租户的强烈共鸣。其中一位名叫米歇尔·戈麦斯(Michele Gomes)，是视频和电视制作公司Interchange Media Art Productions的共同所有人兼首席创意官。
Ms. Gomes and her business partner are leasing two desks on the fourth floor co-working space, a “huge move up” from her company’s current office in a windowless and perpetually cold basement, she said. Even more important, Ms. Gomes is eager to work among peers who have similar sustainability values. “To have like-minded people sharing the same space, to me that’s going to be extremely inspiring,” she said.
戈麦斯和她的商业合伙人将在布利特中心四楼的共用工作空间租用两张桌子。她说，相比于目前没有窗户且永远冰冷的地下室，新租的桌位对于公司的办公环境来说是一次“巨大的升级”。更重要的是，新的办公场所将聚集很多持有可持续发展观的同仁，她迫不及待地想要在这样的环境下工作。“能和志同道合的人共享一个工作空间，对我来说将是极具启发性的。”她说。
Intentional Futures, a technology and software-focused design and engineering studio founded by former Microsoft executives, has leased the 7,900-square-foot fifth floor. Ian Sands, a co-founder and managing partner, said the 20-employee company had outgrown its office directly beneath a local broadcaster’s helipad and was looking to tap into the creative energy emanating from the city’s bustling Pike-Pine Corridor.
International Futures是微软前高管创立的设计和工程工作室，涉足科技和软件业。该工作室已在布利特中心的五楼租下面积7900平方英尺（约合734平方米）的办公空间。其联合创始人兼执行合伙人伊恩·桑兹(Ian Sands)说，公司现在的办公室，在一家当地广播公司的直升机场下。而随着公司的员工数达到20人，现有办公室已经不够用了。因此，地处繁华闹市区派克街-松树街走廊（Pike-Pine Corridor，西雅图市中心，以派克街和松树街为界——译注）的创意节能写字楼布利特中心，就成为了公司的下一个目标。
Although Mr. Sands admires the decision to forgo a traditional garage, he said the lack of on-site parking, coupled with Seattle’s inadequate mass transit, could create commuting headaches for employees who live in the city’s eastern suburbs and who may “have to figure out other methods or places to park nearby because they will have to drive.”
尽管桑兹颇为钦佩布利特中心不设传统车库的决定，但桑兹说，由于没有停车场，而西雅图的公共交通又不方便，通勤对于住在东郊的员工来说会是一个头疼的问题。他们或许“不得不在附近找停车场，因为不开车是不行的，要不然就得另想办法”。
Mr. Hayes said the decision to not have on-site parking generated “spirited conversation” during the design phase. Instead, a space about the size of a three-car garage will be reserved exclusively for bicycles, while commuting bicyclists can wash away the morning sweat in one of the rainwater-fed showers on each floor.
海耶斯说，不设停车场的决定在设计阶段激发了“热烈讨论”。取代停车场的，是专门的自行车棚，面积相当于可容纳三辆汽车的车库。写字楼的每一层都设有淋浴室（采用雨水供水系统），方便早晨骑车上班的员工冲澡，洗去汗水。
Steve Whitney, the Bullitt Foundation’s program officer, said he had adapted to his new work space by buying a second bike.
布利特基金会的项目官员史蒂夫·惠特尼(Steve Whitney)说，为了适应新的工作环境，他专门买了一辆二手自行车。
On a partly cloudy afternoon in early March, Mr. Whitney, Mr. Hayes, and three other Bullitt Foundation employees gathered in a glass-walled conference room in their sixth floor office to offer some admittedly biased first impressions.
在3月初一个晴间多云的下午，惠特尼、海耶斯和布利特基金会的三名员工齐聚六楼办公室的玻璃幕墙会议室，他们分别从个人的角度出发，谈论了自己对布利特中心的第一印象。
Less than a week after moving from a nearly windowless brick carriage house, the employees were still amazed by the spectacular views, ample natural light and almost distracting quiet. The composting toilets, though, remained a source of curiosity even for them, and early discussions have centered on the pulse of foam that cascades down the inner rim of each funnel-shaped bowl to expedite its delivery to the waiting composters below.
员工们从原来几乎没有窗户的马车房（carriage house，原为马车棚，现在的用途多样——译注）搬来还不到一周，他们对新的环境依然惊艳不已：这里有充足的自然光，可以看到壮丽的景观，室内已经安静到几乎让人分心的地步。不过，即使对于他们来说，堆肥间依然是个令人好奇的地方。大家的讨论集中在堆肥的自动化传送过程上：膨胀后的堆肥会翻入漏斗状容器的内缘，并滑入漏斗下方的堆肥机里，这个巧妙的设计让堆肥的传送过程加快了许多。
Two weeks later, Mr. Peña led a tour group of corporate real estate professionals through the bowels of the Bullitt Center to check out the business end of the 24 toilets. Two rows of five bright blue aerobic composters, each the “size of a Fiat 500,” he figured, were busily doing their thing — so efficiently that the first compost extraction would not be required for another 18 months, when the resulting mulch will be commingled with other compost from King County.
两周后，佩纳带领一群商业房地产专业人士，深入布利特中心的内部，参观了24个堆肥间的运作状况。两排亮蓝色的有氧堆肥机正在忙碌地运转，每排有五台机器，每台的大小“相当于一辆菲亚特500型小汽车”，佩纳说。这些堆肥机的效率异常之高，以至于第一批堆肥成品无需另外等待18个月，即可上市。届时它们将与金县(King County)的其它堆肥产品混合在一起。