WASHINGTON — Talk of impeachment is in the air. A handful of conservatives issue statements and sell T-shirts promoting an impeachment their party leaders consider a fool’s errand. Democrats beat the drums even louder, raising money by scaring supporters into taking it seriously.
华盛顿——弹劾总统的说法沸沸扬扬。一些保守派发表声明、出售T恤，宣扬要弹劾总统，他们政党的领导人物认为这是白费力气。民主党甚至更加来劲，他们声称必须严肃对待此事，进而恐吓支持者赶紧捐钱。
If history seems intent on repeating itself as farce, the events of recent days have served as a reminder that 40 years after President Richard M. Nixon resigned in the face of impending impeachment, the nation he left behind is still struggling to define the contours of presidential power and the nature of political accountability.
如果说历史仿佛正打算以闹剧重演，近期发生的事件则提醒人们，在前总统理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)因为面临弹劾而辞职40年之后，美国仍然难以界定总统权力的界限和政治问责的本质。
As the anniversary of his fall arrives this week, Watergate has faded into a few pages in a history book or a cliché to pull out in a news conference or a suffix to attach to some new scandal-gate. More than half of Americans were not alive when Nixon resigned and many others were too young to remember it. But a series of new books, documentaries, panel discussions and television programs has opened a re-examination of a dark and difficult period in American history.
本周，尼克松下台的纪念日即将到来，“水门事件”(Watergate)已经变成了历史书中的寥寥几页，或是人们在新闻发布会上提到的套话，或是在新丑闻爆发后“某某门”的后缀。尼克松辞职时，今天美国超过一半的人口尚未出生，其他很多人年纪还太小，不记得这件事。不过，一系列新书、纪录片、专题讨论会和电视节目提供了一个机会，让人们得以重新审视美国历史上这个黑暗而艰难的时期。
“We’ve gotten sloppy about this, and politicians for their own reasons — the Democrats as well as Republicans — exploit the term ‘impeachment,’ ” said Elizabeth Drew, one of the leading chroniclers of Watergate. “Democrats are just as bad as Republicans about this. They’re raising money off the impeachment term just like the Republicans. This is disgusting. It’s an awful serious thing to talk about impeaching a president.”
“我们一开始有些大意。而政治人物，无论是民主党人还是共和党人，也都出于各自的理由，对‘弹劾’这个词加以利用，”水门事件的一名主要记录者伊丽莎白·德鲁(Elizabeth Drew)说。“在这件事上，民主党与共和党一样坏。他们与共和党一样，也在以弹劾为噱头筹集资金。这真让人恶心。谈论弹劾总统应该是一件非常严肃的事。”
Ms. Drew has contributed to the re-evaluation by releasing an updated version of her seminal book from 1975, “Washington Journal,” with a new afterword including fresh reporting. John W. Dean, the Nixon White House counsel, is back as well with a new volume, “The Nixon Defense,” based on a comprehensive review of the infamous White House tapes. The historians Douglas Brinkley and Luke A. Nichter have also mined the recordings for “The Nixon Tapes,” transcribing conversations on issues other than Watergate.
德鲁1975年的书《华盛顿日记》(Washington Journal)颇有影响力。这本书如今推出了一个新版本，后记中包含新的报道。德鲁凭借这本书也加入了“水门事件”的重新审视。尼克松的白宫法律顾问约翰·W·迪安(John W. Dean)也出版了一部名叫《为尼克松辩护》(The Nixon Defense)的新书，此书是在对臭名昭著的白宫录音带进行全面研究后写成的。历史学者道格拉斯·布林克利(Douglas Brinkley)和卢克·A·尼歇特(Luke A. Nichter)在撰写《尼克松的磁带》(The Nixon Tapes)时也曾仔细研究了这些录音，整理了“水门事件”之外的其他谈话的记录。
Patrick J. Buchanan celebrates Nixon in “The Greatest Comeback,” recalling the 1968 election he won after his previous defeats. Rick Perlstein in his latest installment in the history of the conservative movement traces the fall of Nixon to the rise of Ronald Reagan in “The Invisible Bridge.” In “Chasing Shadows,” Ken Hughes explores Nixon’s role in thwarting Vietnam peace talks before the 1968 election.
帕特里克·J·布坎南(Patrick J. Buchanan)在《荣耀回归》(The Greatest Comeback)中对尼克松大加赞扬，回忆了尼克松在之前的选举中落败后，又在1968的选举中获胜的过程。里克·珀尔斯坦(Rick Perlstein)讲述保守派运动历史的系列作品中，最新的一本叫做《看不见的桥》(The Invisible Bridge)，书中追溯了从尼克松倒台到罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)上台这段时期的历史。肯·休斯(Ken Hughes)则在《追逐阴影》(Chasing Shadows)中讲述了尼克松在1968年选举前，阻挠越南和谈的过程。
Television viewers will also find plenty to transport them back in time. HBO debuts “Nixon by Nixon: In His Own Words,” on Monday, for some voyeuristic eavesdropping into the Oval Office. PBS follows on Friday night, 40 years to the hour after Nixon’s announcement that he would step down, by airing “Dick Cavett’s Watergate,” telling the story through the lens of the popular talk show host.
电视观众也可以找到许多能让他们重温历史的节目。周一，HBO开始播出《尼克松眼中的自己：他的自述》(Nixon by Nixon: In His Own Words)，让观众也有机会偷听椭圆形办公室里发生的事。周五晚上，PBS也开始播出《迪克·卡维特眼中的水门事件》(Dick Cavett’s Watergate)，该片从这位著名脱口秀主持人的视角讲述了这个故事。
“I had forgotten things,” Mr. Cavett said of going through the shows he did on Watergate, which included interviews with figures like G. Gordon Liddy, John Ehrlichman and Alexander Haig. It was so implausible that “it seems either we must remember it wrong or it’s fiction,” he said, adding, “It made me angry watching it.”
卡维特形容，在回顾他做过的水门事件的节目时，他发现“有些事我已经忘了”。这些节目包括对G·戈登·利迪(G. Gordon Liddy)、约翰·埃利希曼(John Ehrlichman)和亚历山大·黑格(Alexander Haig)等人物的访问。这些事情令人难以置信，“仿佛要么是我们一定记错了，要么就是根本没发生过，”他还说，“看片子时我觉得很生气。”
From a more sympathetic vantage point, the Richard Nixon Foundation will post online starting Tuesday a series of interviews Nixon gave to his former White House aide, Frank Gannon, recalling the final days leading to his resignation.
理查德·尼克松基金会(Richard Nixon Foundation)将于周二开始在网上发布尼克松与他在白宫时的前幕僚弗兰克·甘农(Frank Gannon)的一系列访谈，其中回顾了他辞职前的最后几天。这个角度比较容易激起人们的同情心。
In Washington, at least, there still seems to be an audience. When Ms. Drew and Mr. Hughes joined Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, the famed investigative reporters, for a panel discussion of Nixon’s resignation at the headquarters of The Washington Post last week, the line stretched out the door and down the block.
至少在华盛顿，这些东西似乎仍能吸引一些观众。上周，德鲁和休斯，连同因揭发“水门事件”而闻名的调查记者鲍勃·伍德沃德(Bob Woodward)和卡尔·伯恩斯坦(Carl Bernstein)，在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)总部出席了一场关于尼克松辞职的讨论会。当时，听众队伍排出了楼外，一直延伸了一个街区。
All of which goes to show that Nixon still captures the public imagination all these years later. “It’s not that the American people 40 years later are wishing Nixon was still around,” said Mr. Brinkley, a professor at Rice University. “Nobody in their right mind would want Nixon back in the White House. But it was a momentous time and Nixon was a gigantic figure.”
所有这些证明，这么多年过去了，尼克松仍能激起公众的兴趣。“倒不是说，40年后美国民众希望尼克松当时留任了，”莱斯大学(Rice University)教授布林克利说。“头脑正常的人都不会想让尼克松回到白宫。不过，那是个重要的历史节点，而尼克松是其中的大主角。”
And a well-documented one. While he was not the first president to tape his White House conversations, the 3,700 hours captured remain a unique record for history. Mr. Brinkley and Mr. Nichter focused not on Watergate but on other aspects of his presidency, including the opening to China, the Vietnam War, Middle East peacemaking and dealings with the Soviet Union.
而且，他的一举一动得到了详尽的记录。尽管他并非将白宫内的对话记录在案的首位总统，但时长3700小时的录音，仍然是独特的史料。布林克利和尼歇特把注意力放在了尼克松“水门事件”之外的总统生涯，包括接触中国、越南战争、中东和平进程，以及与苏联的交往。
The Nixon who comes through in the transcripts they have made is crude and vain, gossipy, sometimes paranoid, plotting against enemies real or imagined. He is also deeply involved in determining war strategy, plotting out hardball diplomacy and dictating policy to Henry Kissinger. “We like to put people in boxes,” said Mr. Nichter, an associate professor at Texas A & M University, Central Texas. “What box do you put Richard Nixon in, and who else is in that box — if a box can even contain him?”
他们从谈话记录中挖掘出的尼克松粗鲁、自负、嘴碎，时而疑心重重，要密谋对付真实的敌人或假想敌。他还深度介入战争决策，谋划了强硬的外交政策，并对亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)下达指令。“我们喜欢给人划分类型，”德克萨斯农工大学德州中部校区(Texas A & M University, Central Texas)的副教授尼歇特说。“该把理查德·尼克松归到哪一类，属于这一类的还有谁——假设他真能被定义到一种类型里的话？”
While Mr. Brinkley and Mr. Nichter steered clear of Watergate — saving it for their next book of transcripts — Mr. Dean did not. Until now, Stanley Kutler’s 1997 book, “Abuse of Power,” offered the most complete look at what the tapes revealed about Watergate. But Mr. Dean and a team he assembled reviewed 600 additional conversations.
布林克利和尼歇特避开了“水门事件”，准备到下一本关于谈话记录的书中再做探讨。迪安则不然。时至今日，对“水门事件”相关录音资料进行了最全面研究的是斯坦利·库特勒(Stanley Kutler)在1997年出版的《滥用职权》(Abuse of Power)。不过，迪安及其团队还分析了另外的600次对话。
He concluded, among other things, that Nixon really did not order the break-in at the Democratic headquarters that precipitated the investigation leading to his downfall, but he was deeply involved in the cover-up. He also argued that it was mechanically impossible for Nixon’s secretary, Rose Mary Woods, to have erased the tape with the infamous 18-and-a-half-minute gap, but dismisses the importance of the missing portion.
他的结论之一是，尼克松的确没有亲自下令窃听民主党总部，但他深度介入了其后的掩盖行动。窃听一事引发了最终导致尼克松下台的调查。迪安还认为，尼克松的秘书罗丝·玛丽·伍兹(Rose Mary Woods)技术上不可能抹掉那18分半的录音内容。这段缺失的录音广受怀疑，但迪安认为并不重要。
Mr. Dean, who cooperated with prosecutors to become Nixon’s accuser, said he learned more about the president he worked for while listening to the tapes, how he behaved differently with different people and relied so much on a small inner circle. “This is just the epitome of the kinds of mistakes a president can make, including the way a president gets himself isolated, and just getting information from one or two aides,” he said.
迪安后来与检方合作，转而指控尼克松。他表示，通过听这些录音，他对自己曾经效力的总统有了更多的了解：尼克松在不同人面前会变换行为方式，而且极为依赖内部小圈子。“这就是总统犯错的典型，包括总统把自己隔绝起来，只从一两个幕僚那里获取信息，”他说。