A 16-hour boat ride from the Chinese province of Hainan and dependent on supplies shipped in from outside, Yongxing Island, in the South China Sea, may seem an improbable location for any business.Despite these logistical difficulties, however, some of China’s largest companies have rushed to establish a presence on the small island, or donated goods and services. Political, rather than economic, considerations are likely to have influenced their decisions.
中国南海的永兴岛，距海南省有16小时的航程，物资供应依赖外界运输，似乎不适合开展任何工商业务。然而，尽管存在物流方面的这些困难，中国的一些大型公司却纷纷来这个小岛开设办公室，或者捐赠物资和服务。他们的决定很可能受到政治、而非经济层面因素的影响。
Yongxing, previously home to just a small detachment of Chinese soldiers and fishermen, jumped into the national spotlight after it was designated the government seat of a new prefecture-level city, Sansha, in July 2012.
以前只有很少中国士兵和渔民居住在永兴，但自从2012年7月它被指定为新的地级市三沙的政府所在地之后，永兴一跃成为了全国的焦点。
The administrative upgrade last year in the status of Sansha, actually a collection of island groups, came amidst growing tensions between China and other countries in the region over territorial claims in the South China Sea. China is embroiled in disputes with the Philippines, Vietnam, Brunei and Malaysia over parts of the sea. Taiwan has also laid claim to large areas.
三沙实际上由数个岛屿组成，去年其行政区划升级的时候，南海领土争端正在令中国和该地区其他国家之间的关系日趋紧张。在南海的部分海域，中国卷入了与菲律宾、越南、文莱和马来西亚之间的领土争端。台湾也声称拥有大片海域的主权。
Yongxing, perpetually sunny with clear blue waters and palm trees, may seem like an island paradise, but it carries great political significance for Beijing. “The business permits we issue to companies don’t just provide the legal basis for their operations,” Tan Hongcai, head of the Sansha office of the State Administration of Commerce and Industry, said in an interview in July of this year with the administration’s newspaper. “It also proves that the Industry and Commerce office’s work extends to the Xisha, Nansha and Zhongsha islands and relevant waters.”
永远阳光灿烂的永兴，有着湛蓝的海水和棕榈树，看上去可能像是一个岛屿天堂，但它却对北京来说具有重大的政治意义。“我们为企业发出的营业执照，不仅是企业合法经营的凭证。”三沙市工商局局长谭宏才今年7月接受国家工商行政管理总局下属报纸的采访时说。“它也是工商行政管理工作延伸到西沙、南沙、中沙诸群岛及相关海域的证明。”
Xisha, Nansha and Zhongsha, which make up Sansha, are the Chinese names for the Paracel Islands, the Spratly Islands and the Macclesfield Bank.
三沙市由西沙、南沙、中沙诸群岛组成，它们分别是帕拉塞尔群岛、斯普拉特利群岛和马科斯菲尔德沙洲的中国名字。
“This announces to the rest of the world that China has indisputable sovereignty over this region,” Mr. Tan said, the score of the song “I Love Sansha” on his desk. Sansha residents sang the tune during anniversary celebrations last July of Sansha’s designation as a prefecture-level city.
“这向外界宣示着，我国对这一区域有着无可争议的主权！”谭宏才说。在他的办公桌上，有一份《我爱三沙》的歌谱。今年7月，在三沙市建地级市一周年的庆典上，居民们唱响了这首歌。
Also in July, the mayor of Sansha, Xiao Jie, announced that 21 companies had been approved to set up offices in the city, including China Railway Construction and Sany Heavy Industry.
也是在7月，三沙市市长肖杰宣布，包括中国铁建与三一重工在内的21家公司，已获准在该市设立办事处。
Not surprisingly, state-owned companies have taken the lead in overhauling Sansha’s infrastructure. China Southern Grid, for example, is investing 300 million renminbi, or almost $50 million, to build an electrical grid on Yongxing and a nearby island. Other companies, both state- and privately owned, have also seized the opportunity to display their patriotism by contributing to Sansha’s development over the past year.
不出意外的是，国有企业已经在率先改造三沙的基础设施。例如，中国南方电网正投资3亿人民币，为永兴和附近的一个岛屿修建电网。过去一年，包括国企和民企在内的其他公司也抓住机会，通过投身三沙的发展来表现他们的爱国精神。
Last December, the chairman of Hainan Expressway, an infrastructure conglomerate based in Hainan Province, announced that his company was donating 5 million renminbi toward the construction of a kindergarten and primary school on Yongxing. Yingli Group, the world’s leading solar panel manufacturer, donated 5 million renminbi’s worth of photovoltaic systems. An official from the China National Offshore Oil Corporation announced in April that it would donate a natural gas-fueled power station. Boying Science and Technology Company donated 10 million renminbi in water desalination systems.
去年12月，总部设在海南省的基建类集团海南高速的董事长宣布，公司将捐赠500万人民币，为永兴修建一所幼儿园和小学。英利集团——世界领先的太阳能组件制造商——捐赠了价值500万人民币的光伏发电系统。今年4月，中国海洋石油总公司的一位主管宣布，将捐助一座以天然气为燃料的发电站。波鹰科技公司则捐赠了价值1000万人民币的海水淡化系统。
Great Wall Motors donated two patrol vehicles for members of the People’s Armed Police stationed on Yongxing. Describing the event, the state news media said that, with its gift, the company met its “due responsibilities and obligations” as a member of society.
长城汽车向驻守永兴的武警捐赠了两辆巡逻车，新华网在报道此事时表示，这些捐赠体现了作为社会的一分子“应尽的责任和义务”。
Not forgetting the daily necessities, Chinese companies have also chipped in washing detergent, kitchen appliances and even apple cider vinegar pills.Ultimately, however, Sansha is sustained by strong state support. The central government has undertaken a series of projects to overhaul the once sleepy backwater of Yongxing into a modern community, befitting its new status as the Sansha government seat.
当然还有日用品；中国企业还纷纷捐献洗涤剂、厨房用具，甚至苹果醋丸。然而，归根结底，三沙是由国家提供的强大支持来维持的。中央政府已开展了一系列的项目，期望把曾经偏僻沉寂的永兴改造成一个现代化城市，符合它作为三沙市政府所在地的新地位。
China invested 24 billion renminbi in infrastructure upgrades for Yongxing in the year ending in July, including building a new port, a sewage treatment plant and a hospital, Xinhua, the state-run news agency, reported in October.
截至今年7月的12个月里，中国已经在永兴的基础设施改造上投资了240亿人民币，包括修建一个新的港口、一个污水处理厂和一家医院，新华社10月报道。
In March, Nankai University in the northern city of Tianjin signed an agreement with Sansha to serve as its “government think tank,” the newspaper Hainan Daily reported. The university will help guide Sansha’s development and encourage young academics to take up temporary posts there to support its growth, the article said.
据《海南日报》报道，今年3月，天津的南开大学与三沙签署协议，担任其“政府智库”。这篇报道说，南开大学将协助指导三沙的发展，并鼓励年轻学者在该地挂职，支持其发展。
Bank of China, China Construction Bank, Agricultural Bank of China and China Development Bank have all signed cooperation agreements with Sansha, according to Hainan Daily.
《海南日报》称，中国银行、中国建设银行、中国农业银行和中国国家开发银行都和三沙签署了合作协议。
Last year, the National Library of China opened its first branch outside Beijing — on Yongxing, with 3,000 books and access to 200 newspapers, according to Xinhua. The Chinese government also donated an additional 20,000 books to the island in April.
新华社报道，去年，中国国家图书馆在永兴开设了北京以外的第一家分馆，提供了3000册图书以及200种报纸。今年4月，中国政府又向永兴赠送了2万册图书。
Meanwhile, visitors and residents alike are reminded daily of the broader geopolitical significance of Sansha and of China’s claims.
与此同时，政府也不断提醒游客和当地居民：三沙具有更广泛的地缘政治意义，中国拥有对它的主权。
A tall stone plaque painted with a map of China and its “nine-dash line” claim to the South China Sea stands on a Yongxing street for all to see.
在永兴的一条街道上，矗立着一块展示给世人看的高大石碑，上面绘制着中国地图以及标志南海海域国界线的“九段线”。
The message is clear: This is China’s.
讯息很明确：这是中国的地盘。