Like other 20-somethings seeking a career foothold, Andrew Lang, a graduate of Penn State, took an internship at an upstart Beverly Hills production company at age 29 as a way of breaking into movie production. It didn’t pay, but he hoped the exposure would open doors.
跟其他寻求职业立足点的20多岁年轻人一样，宾州州立大学(Penn State)29岁的毕业生安德鲁·朗(Andrew Lang)在一家位于比佛利山庄的初创制片公司找了实习工作，希望以此为契机进军电影制片领域。虽说没有薪酬，但他希望这份工作能为他打开机会的大门。
When that internship proved to be a dead end, Mr. Lang went to work at a second production company, again as an unpaid intern. When that went nowhere, he left for another, doing whatever was asked, like delivering bottles of wine to 27 offices before Christmas. But that company, too, could not afford to hire him, even part time.
然而这份实习工作未能给他带来转机。随后，朗先生去了第二家制片公司，仍然做没有薪酬的实习生。结果同样无疾而终，他又去了一家制片公司，人家叫干什么就干什么，例如在圣诞之前将红酒送到27个办公室。然而，这家公司还是没有请他，连兼职的岗位都没法提供。
A year later, Mr. Lang is on his fourth internship, this time for a company that produces reality TV shows. While this internship at least pays him (he makes $10 an hour, with few perks), Mr. Lang feels no closer to a real job and worries about being an intern forever. “No one hires interns,” said Mr. Lang, who sees himself as part of a “revolving class of people” who can’t break free of the intern cycle. “Is this any way to live?”
一年后，朗先生找到了第四份实习工作，这一次是一家电视真人秀制片公司。虽然这份工作有薪水（时薪10美元，几乎没有津贴），但朗先生仍觉得与真正的全职工作相去甚远，而且担心自己永远都只能是个实习生了。他觉得自己陷入了恶性循环，难以跳出实习怪圈。他说：“没人愿意花钱聘请实习生。这日子该怎么过？”
The intern glass ceiling isn’t limited to Hollywood. Tenneh Ogbemudia, 23, who aspires to be a record executive, has had four internships at various New York media companies, including Source magazine and Universal Music Group.
实习生玻璃天花板并不只是在好莱坞才有。23岁的特纳·欧格贝姆迪亚(Tenneh Ogbemudia)的理想是成为一名唱片公司高管，曾在《Source》杂志和环球音乐集团(Universal Music Group)等四家纽约媒体公司干过实习工作。
“In any given month, I’d say I apply to at least 300 full-time jobs,” she said, noting these attempts were to no avail. “On the other hand, I can apply to one or two internship positions a month and get a call back from both.”
她说：“每个月我至少会申请300份全职工作。”但她说这些都徒劳无功。“另一方面，我每个月都会向一两家公司申请实习生岗位，而这两家公司都会给我打电话。”
Call them members of the permanent intern underclass: educated members of the millennial generation who are locked out of the traditional career ladder and are having to settle for two, three and sometimes more internships after graduating college, all with no end in sight.
你可以称他们是“永远的底层实习生”：虽然他们是受过良好教育的千禧一代，却与传统的职业晋升阶梯无缘。大学毕业后，他们不得不参加两次、三次甚至更多次的实习，然而在所有这些工作中，转正都遥遥无期。
Like an army of worker ants, they are a subculture with a distinct identity, banding together in Occupy Wall Street-inspired groups and, lately, creating their own blogs, YouTube channels, networking groups and even a magazine that captures life inside the so-called Intern Nation.
就像工蚁大军一样，他们成为一种拥有显著特征的亚文化代表，集结在受“占领华尔街”(Occupy Wall Street)运动影响而成立的团组中。最近，他们创建了自有博客、YouTube频道和交流团组，甚至还出版了一份杂志，呈现所谓“实习一族”(Intern Nation)的生活点滴。
It is a young, rudderless community that is still trying to define itself. “I’m just wondering at what point how many internships is too many,” said Lea, who received a master’s degree from Parsons, the New School for Design two years ago and aspires to work as a magazine art director. (She was allowed to use only her first name to avoid jeopardizing a current job application.) So far, her résumé has been limited to three internships — planning events for teenagers at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, compiling news clippings for a public relations agency in New York, and being the “fetch-the-coffee girl” at an art gallery.
这是一个年轻、群龙无首的群体，他们仍在努力寻找自己的定位。两年前于帕森(Parsons)设计学院获得硕士学位的莉娅(Lea)希望成为一名杂志艺术总监。（为了不妨碍她目前的工作申请，本文未使用她的全名。）到目前为止，她的简历中仅有三次实习经历——在巴尔的摩沃尔特斯艺术博物馆(Walters Art Museum)为青少年策划活动；为一家纽约公关机构汇编新闻剪报；在一个画廊负责“斟咖啡”。
While feeling trapped inside what she calls a “never-ending intern life,” Lea satisfies her creative impulses by editing a food and drinks column at a lifestyle blog, selling coral fan necklaces on Etsy, and starting a charity to teach children about “responsible” street art. She wonders if she should surrender to a fourth internship or settle for an office job outside her chosen field.
莉娅说，她觉得自己陷入了所谓“永无止尽的实习人生”，但是她仍然对自己的创作冲动感到满意：她在一个生活方式类博客负责编辑饮食专栏，在Etsy网络商店销售扇形珊瑚项链，并开创了一个公益项目，向孩子们讲授什么是“负责”的街头艺术。她自己也不知道，是将就着去干第四份实习工作，还是就此认命，找一份心仪领域之外的文职工作。
“I’m 26 right now,” she said. “I know that everyone has their own pace, but I don’t really feel like a real adult right now.”
她说：“我已经26岁了。我知道每个人的步调都不一样，但眼下，我觉得自己并不是个真正的成年人。”
There was a time not long ago when internships were reserved for college students. But that era is passing, with loosely defined internships — some paying a small stipend, some nothing — replacing traditional entry-level jobs for many fresh out of college.
不久前，实习岗位还是大学在校生的专属。但这个时代正离我们而去，很多刚走出校门的毕业生面对的是定义模糊的实习岗位，而非传统的入门级工作，有一些岗位有少量的津贴，有些则什么都没有。
The moribund economy is, without question, a primary factor behind the shift. Even though the employment picture has brightened since the depths of the Great Recession, few would describe it as sunny. The general unemployment rate inched down to 6.6 percent last month, but the jobless rate for college graduates age 20 to 24 stood at 8 percent in 2013, compared with 5.1 percent in 2007, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
毫无疑问，停滞不前的经济是造成这种变化的主因。尽管就业形势自大衰退(Great Recession)探底后有所好转，但还没有达到蒸蒸日上的地步。劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)的数据显示，总体失业率于上月小幅降至6.6%，但2013年20-24岁大学毕业生的失业率为8%，明显高于2007年的5.1%。
No one tracks how many college graduates take internships, but employment experts and intern advocates say the number has risen substantially in recent years. “The postgraduate internship has exploded,” said Ross Perlin, author of the book “Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New Economy.” “This was something that became a real mainstream experience after the recession began.”
没有人统计过从事实习工作的大学毕业生数量，但是就业专家和实习倡议人士称，近几年这一数字在显著攀升。《实习一族：如何在“美好”的新经济环境下找一份既不挣钱又学不到东西的工作》(Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New Economy)一书作者罗斯·珀林(Ross Perlin)说：“招收研究生的实习岗位比比皆是，经济衰退开始之后，这已成为学生们的一种主流经历。”
But the poor job market is not the only reason that recent graduates feel stuck in internships. Millennials, it is often said, want more than just a paycheck; they crave meaningful and fulfilling careers, maybe even a chance to change the world.
但是疲软的就业市场并不是应届大学毕业生陷入实习怪圈的唯一原因。人们常说，千禧一代要的不止是工资，他们渴望的是有意义、充实的职业，甚至可能是改变世界的机会。
That may explain why millennials like Breanne Thomas, 24, an aspiring entrepreneur in Brooklyn, has bounced from internship to internship. Unlike her parents’ generation, it is not enough to find a steady job; she wants to follow the path of Mark Zuckerberg, or at least to get in on the ground floor of the next Facebook, the next Twitter.
这可能也解释了为什么像布里安娜·托马斯(Breanne Thomas)这样的千禧一代会一直辗转做着各种实习工作。这位24岁、立志于创业的年轻人住在布鲁克林，与父辈们不一样的是，她认为找到稳定的工作还远远不够；她希望追随马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的脚步，或者起码能参与下一个Facebook或下一个Twitter的创建工作。
“ ‘Success’ doesn’t always mean financial success, but doing something you’re passionate about,” said Ms. Thomas, who graduated with two bachelor’s degrees from the University of Oregon in 2012. “It’s kind of my goal one day to have my own company, to be part of something that is going to do something great. That’s why I’m in tech.”
托马斯女士说：“‘成功’并不一定总是按赚钱多少来衡量，而是从事一份你所热爱的工作。我未来的目标是自己当老板，参与某项伟大的事业。这是我为什么从事科技行业的原因。”她于2012年从俄勒冈大学(University of Oregon)毕业，拿到了双学士学位。
That kind of ambition comes with a price, however. Competition for salaried high-tech jobs is fierce, so Ms. Thomas has had to settle for internships: three, so far, including at a five-person food-delivery start-up, a beauty products site and, currently, a well-known social-networking app that she asked not to name.
然而，这种抱负是有代价的。受薪高科技岗位的竞争十分激烈，因此托马斯只得选择实习：目前她的实习经历横跨三家公司，包括一个由五位员工组成的送餐初创公司，一个美容产品网站，目前则在一家知名社交网络应用公司（她要求不提及公司名称）。
While the idea of slaving away in two, three or four quasi jobs without a clear path for advancement may seem unimaginable to an older generation, those in their 20s seem to respond to their jobless fate with a collective shrug. To them, internships are the new normal. “For some people, being an accountant, taking a safe route, is perfectly fine, but that’s not where my values lie,” Ms. Thomas said.
实习工作一换再换，埋头苦干仍看不到前路在何方，这种境况对于老一代人来说似乎是难以想象的，但20几岁的年轻人谈到自己没有正式工作的现状，似乎都只是耸耸肩而已。对于他们来说，实习是一种新常态。托马斯女士说：“在某些人看来，当个会计，走条安稳的路，这样就十分理想了，但这并不是我的价值观。”
This is especially true in more creative fields, whether it is filmmaking or publishing. “It’s fashion,” said Dawn Joyce, 24, when asked why she has gone through four internships since 2010. Those include unpaid stints at a major fashion magazine, where she mingled with Zooey Deschanel and Julianne Moore at photo shoots, and at a public relations firm, where she held front-row seats for late-arriving celebrities like Selena Gomez. “I consider myself to be pretty jaded already.”
在像电影和出版这类崇尚创意的行业，情况尤甚。2010年以来，24岁的多恩·乔伊斯(Dawn Joyce)做过四份实习工作，在被问及个中原因时，她说：“因为很时髦啊。”她的实习经历包括在一家主流时尚杂志做没有报酬的零碎活，在拍照片时得以跟佐伊·丹斯切尔(Zooey Deschanel)和茱莉安·摩尔(Julianne Moore)攀谈；以及在一家公关公司工作，为像赛琳娜·戈麦斯(Selena Gomez)这些晚到的名人占前排座位。“我觉得自己真的已经干不下去了。”
“I have seen a lot of people beside me quit,” Ms. Joyce added. “It’s sort of like, ‘Let’s see who lasts the longest.’ ”
乔伊斯还说：“我已经看到身边的很多人都辞职了。这种工作有点类似于‘看谁能忍到最后。’”
As their ranks have swelled, interns are beginning to see themselves as part of a special class, albeit one with few privileges and perks. They share their own brand of gallows humor, their own pride of purpose and their own battle-hardened worldview tinged with a risk-taker’s optimism.
随着这类人群的不断壮大，实习生们开始将自己看作是一个特殊阶层的一员，只是这个群体的权利和津贴少得可怜。他们有着特有的黑色幽默、使命感和久经历练的世界观，且不乏敢于冒险的乐观心态。
This intern-centric culture has spawned numerous blogs, a place at the multiplex (think of “The Internship,” from last year, with Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn playing a pair of 40-something Google interns) and even its own magazine.
以实习为中心的文化催生了大量的博客、一部以实习为主题的电影（在去年的电影《挨踢实习生》[The Internship]中，欧文·威尔森[Owen Wilson]和文奇·万[Vince Vaughn]扮演一对40多岁的谷歌实习生），甚至有了专属杂志。
Intern magazine, which came out in October, grew out of the frustrations of Alec Dudson, 29, a former intern who toiled in London’s publishing industry. “I was working 30 hours a week at odd jobs, on top of 40 hours a week at internships, and I knew there wasn’t a job at the end of it,” said Mr. Dudson, who slept on friends’ sofas to help make ends meet. “I needed to do something of my own.”
《实习生》(Intern)杂志于去年10月面世，杂志的主创人员是29岁的阿勒克·杜森(Alec Dudson)，他之前也是一名辗转于伦敦出版行业的实习生。杜森说：“我每周打30个小时的零工，还得干40个小时的实习工作，而且我知道，实习工作之后转正无望。我得干点自己的事情。”他曾在朋友的沙发上过夜，为的是节省开支。
That something turned out to be a glossy, biannual magazine that is geared for those with a design and creative bent, and looks like a fashion bible for the Black Book crowd. The feature articles provide tips and inspiration for the faceless drones who keep the style industries humming, including a first-person piece by a Spanish photographer who cut his teeth by interning for Richard Kern in New York.
他因此做出了一本光鲜亮丽的半年刊杂志，目标受众是那些喜欢设计和创意的人群，看起来像是为那些不得志的人群专门准备的一本时尚圣经。专题文章旨在为那些让时尚界得以枝繁叶茂的无名苦工们支招、打气，其中包括一篇由西班牙摄影师撰写的自述，这位摄影师在纽约跟随理查德·科恩(Richard Kern)实习，以增长阅历。
“There is a culture of internships, a situation whereby it is completely normal for young people to think that working unpaid is just part of the process,” Mr. Dudson said. “Nobody even questions it. I wasn’t the only one confused about where the boundaries lie, how much of this stuff do you have to do before someone takes you seriously.”
杜森说：“在如今的实习文化环境下，年轻人认为无薪工作是求职的必经之路，是件再正常不过的事情。没有人去质问这一现象。然而，也有人跟我一样感到疑惑：界限何在？在你得到正式认可之前，这种工作你还得做多久？”
These days, there are no shortages of places, online and off, for interns to gather and commiserate. Groups like FindSpark, a New York jobs network for recent graduates, offer meetups and mixers with themes like “Find and Follow Your Passion” and “Your Personal Brand” that draw hundreds. Interns who tire of glad-handing their way through mixers with frozen smiles often vent their frustrations on anonymous blogs like Fashion Intern Problems, the short-lived Life of an Investment Banking Summer Slave and, for Hollywood’s version of Roman galley slaves, Anonymous Production Assistant Blog and Intern-Anonymous.
如今，线上线下，可供实习生聚会、相互宽慰的场所的确不少。FindSpark是纽约一家针对应届毕业生的求职网络，像这样的团体会举办聚会和联谊，主题包括“寻找并追随你的激情”以及“自己的个人品牌”等，聚会往往能吸引数百名参与者。那些不愿在聚会上强颜欢笑的实习生们常常会在匿名博客上发泄自己的不满，这些博客包括《时尚实习生的疑问》、昙花一现的《投行暑期奴隶的生活》以及供好莱坞罗马式苦工们发泄的《制作助理匿名博客》和《匿名实习生》。
“I worked 32 hours a week and was treated like a minion,” one commenter wrote on Intern-Anonymous. “I was then fired because they were afraid I would leak information.”
在《匿名实习生》上，有一条评论这样写道：“我每周工作32个小时，得到的却是仆从一般的待遇。后来他们因为害怕我走漏了风声，炒了我的鱿鱼。”
Lately, however, long-suffering interns are starting to do more than complain. They point to the Labor Department’s six criteria for legal internships, which stipulate that companies that do not pay interns must provide vocational education and refrain from substituting interns for paid employees, among others. Those rules have been highly open to interpretation and their enforcement is sporadic.
然而最近，压抑已久的实习生们除了抱怨之外，开始采取更多的行动。他们开始诉诸法律保护自己，因为劳工部(Labor Department)关于合法招收实习生的六大准则规定：不为实习生提供薪酬的企业必须提供在职培训，且企业应避免使用实习生来替代受薪员工等。然而，企业在解读这些规定时却是众说纷纭，而且执行起来也是时好时坏。
In a much-publicized lawsuit in 2011, two unpaid interns sued the filmmakers of “Black Swan” alleging a violation of federal and New York State minimum wage laws. Last June, a federal judge in New York ruled in favor of the interns. (The case is on appeal.)
在2011年一个广为人知的官司中，两名无薪实习生起诉电影《黑天鹅》(Black Swan)制片商违反了联邦和纽约州最低工资法。去年6月，纽约联邦法官做出了有利于实习生的判决。（该案仍在上诉中。）
“It’s an institutionalized form of wage theft,” said Eric Glatt, 44, one of the plaintiffs who has since helped form an Occupy-inspired group called Intern Labor Rights. Last year, the group distributed fake swag bags and buttons that read “Pay Your Interns” outside fashion shows in New York.
其中一名原告、44岁的埃瑞克·格拉特(Eric Glatt)说：“这是一种制度化的薪资盗窃。”自那之后，他受到了占领活动的启发，帮助成立了一个名为实习生劳动权益(Intern Labor Rights)的组织。去年，该组织在纽约时装秀场地外分发了仿制礼品袋和徽章，上面写着“给你的实习生发工资”。
That ruling opened the floodgates to some 30 other lawsuits against companies like Warner Music Group, Elite Model Management and, perhaps most notably, Condé Nast. In that suit, one plaintiff, Lauren Ballinger, who interned at W while still in college, conjured visions of “The Devil Wears Prada” with her stories of toiling away on menial tasks like organizing jewelry for 12-hour shifts for a stipend that she claimed broke down to $1 an hour.
该裁决一出，其他30宗官司蜂拥而至，遭到起诉的公司包括华纳音乐集团(Warner Music Group)和精英模特管理公司(Elite Model Management)等，其中最值得关注的可能是康泰纳仕集团(Condé Nast)。在这起诉讼中，其中一位原告劳伦·巴灵格(Lauren Ballinger)在大学时曾在《W》杂志实习，她提到了电影《时尚女魔头》(The Devil Wears Prada)的场景，并讲述了自己如何埋头苦干卑微的工作，比如12小时倒一班地整理首饰，而据她称，拿到的时薪平均下来仅有1美元。
While the plaintiffs in the Condé Nast suit had been students at the time of their internships, such lawsuits have sent a chill through the Intern Industrial Complex, affecting undergraduates and postgraduates alike as companies scramble to adjust to the new legal landscape.
尽管康泰纳仕集团案件中的原告在实习时还是学生，但这些官司也向“实习工业综合体”敲响了警钟，随着企业争相向新的法规要求靠拢，它开始波及到本科生和研究生。
Some, like NBC Universal, have responded by paying interns. Other former intern magnets are redefining the position (Gawker Media now calls its entry-level workers “editorial fellows”).
作为对诉讼的回应，包括美国国家广播环球公司(NBC Universal)在内的一些企业开始向实习生支付薪酬。其他之前的实习生聘用大户也都纷纷重新对实习生职位做出定义（现今，高客传媒[Gawker Media]将入门级员工称为“编辑研究员”）。
In some cases, however, the intern revolt may be backfiring.
然而，在某些情况下，实习生的反抗可能会导致事与愿违的后果。
Last October, Condé Nast announced that it was ending the internship programs within its 25 magazines, which means that 20-something aspiring magazine editors will have one less place to get a toehold for their “meaningful” careers.
去年10月，康泰纳仕集团宣布，在旗下25家杂志社取消实习项目。这意味着志在成为杂志编辑的20来岁的年轻人在实现其“有意义的”职业梦想时又少了一个能够提供支点的公司。
 “Can you hear it?” one commenter wrote on a WWD article about the ending of internships. “It’s my dream of a Vogue internship going straight out the window.”
在女装日刊(WWD)一篇有关取消实习项目的文章中，一条评论写道：“你知道吗？我在时尚(VOGUE)杂志实习的梦想破灭了。”