THE FACTS:
事实：
Most people know the age-old diet advice about grocery shopping when you are hungry: You are more likely to buy fattening, unhealthy foods. So avoid it.
很多人都听说过一个减肥忠告，那就是饿的时候不应该去逛超市：否则你更有可能购买让人发胖的、不健康的食物。所以应该尽量避免。
But the weight loss maxims found in diet books do not always hold up in the real world. So two researchers at Cornell University recently devised an experiment that put this notion to the test.
但在很多减肥书中出现的减肥箴言在真实世界里往往并不能站得住脚。所以，两位康奈尔大学(Cornell University)的研究人员最近设计了一项设计，用来测试这种说法。
The study, published in JAMA Internal Medicine, was carried out in two phases. In the first, 68 men and women were brought into a lab on two separate days after having been told not to eat for five hours. Then they were allowed to “shop” for food in a simulated grocery store, which offered low-calorie options like fruits, vegetables and chicken breasts, as well as higher-calorie junk foods.
这项发表在《美国医学会杂志·内科》(JAMA Internal Medicine)的研究分成了两个阶段进行。在第一个阶段，研究者分别在两天里，将68名男性和女性参试者带进一间试验室，在此前，这些参试者都被要求禁食五小时。随后，他们可以在一个模拟的日杂店里“购买”食物，店里既提供了像水果、蔬菜和鸡胸这类低热量的食品，也有热量较高的垃圾食品。
Before shopping, half of the subjects were given a snack. Both groups ultimately purchased a similar number of items, but those who shopped while hungry picked the highest-calorie foods.
在购物前，半数参试者吃了一块点心。两组最终购买的食物件数接近，但饿着肚子购物的人选择的食品热量最高。
In the second phase of the study, the researchers followed 82 actual shoppers in a grocery store. Once again, they found that people shopping at times when they were most likely to be hungry opted for the foods that were more calorically dense.
在第二个阶段，研究人员在日杂店里追踪了82位真实的顾客。他们再次发现，那些饥饿时购物的人往往更容易购买高热量食物。
In an accompanying editorial, Dr. Rita F. Redberg, a cardiologist, said the findings provided scientific support for common-sense advice.
心血管科医生丽塔·F·雷德伯格(Rita F. Redberg)在论文后的编者按中表示，研究为常识性的建议提供了科学支持。
“I think all diet guides include the advice to ‘never go grocery shopping when you are hungry,’ ” she wrote, “and when I had young children, I added ‘and never with young children’ – because either of these factors seem to lead to less wise food choices.”
“我思考过各种减肥指南，包括‘饿肚子时不要去逛超市这条，”她写道：“而在我成为妈妈后，我又加了条‘永远也不要带小宝宝去逛超市’——因为这两个因素看来都不会让你在挑选食物时更加明智。”
THE BOTTOM LINE:
总之：
Shopping for groceries on an empty stomach does in fact influence food choices. 
肚中空空时去逛超市，确实会影响你对食物的选择。