The little-known New York roots of a French classic are unearthed in “The Little Prince: A New York Story,” a Morgan Library exhibition that explores the origins of the deceptively profound children’s book. Exiled from France after the German occupation, the author and pilot Antoine de Saint-Exupéry spent the early 1940s in Manhattan, where he gave life to the story of a stranded pilot’s friendship with an otherworldly little boy. He wrote and illustrated “The Little Prince” in homes on Central Park South and Beekman Place and at a Long Island summer retreat and the 52nd Street studio of a friend that later became the French restaurant La Grenouille. The slim novella — which is being adapted for an upcoming 3-D animated film voiced by Rachel McAdams, James Franco and Marion Cotillard — celebrated its 70th anniversary last April and is France’s most-read work. But its undeniable New York influences are rarely explored.Underscoring the significance of Saint-Exupéry’s years in the city is the fact that they were his last. He shipped off to war to rejoin his reconnaissance unit one week after the first copies of “The Little Prince” hit shelves in 1943, hastily bestowing the book’s manuscript on a New York friend as a parting gift. One year later, his plane vanished over the Mediterranean, mere weeks before the liberation of Paris. His body was never identified. Present at the Morgan is one of only a handful of “The Little Prince” copies that Saint-Exupéry inscribed, as well as the ID bracelet worn at the time of his disappearance, which bears his name and the New York address of his publisher.
摩根图书馆的“《小王子》：一个纽约故事”(The Little Prince: A New York Story)展揭示出这部法语经典之作鲜为人知的纽约根源，探索这部看似简单实则意味深长的童书的起源。20世纪40年代初，法国被德国占领期间，该书作者、飞行员安托万·德·圣-埃克苏佩里(Antoine de Saint-Exupéry)流亡到美国。他住在曼哈顿，专心写一个故事：一个陷入困境的飞行员与一个来自他世的小男孩之间的友谊。他在中央公园南边和比克曼社区的家中、长岛的一个避暑地和一个朋友在第52街的工作室写作和绘制《小王子》。那个工作室后来变成了法国餐馆La Grenouille。这部简练的中篇小说去年4月迎来了诞生70周年纪念，是法国被阅读最多的作品。这部小说正被改编成一部即将上映的3D动画电影，由瑞秋·麦克亚当斯(Rachel McAdams)、詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)和玛丽昂·歌迪亚(Marion Cotillard)配音。但是纽约对这本书不可否认的影响力却很少被探究。圣-埃克苏佩里在纽约的那些年很重要，因为那是他最后的日子。1943年，在《小王子》的第一批书上架之后一周，他乘船重返战场，回到他的侦察小组。临走前，他匆忙地把这本书的手稿送给纽约的一个朋友，作为告别礼物。一年后，在巴黎解放前几周，他的飞机在地中海上空失踪。人们一直没有找到他的尸体。摩根的展览展出了少数几本有他签名的《小王子》中的一本，以及他失踪那段时间所佩戴的身份腕带，上面刻有他的名字以及他的出版商在纽约的地址。
The linchpin of the show is Saint-Exupéry’s original manuscript. Through coffee-stained draft notes and original watercolors, as well as personal letters and rough sketches, the process behind “The Little Prince’s” conception is vividly rendered. Shown are the earliest drawings from which characters like the prince and his pet fox evolved, as well as Saint-Exupéry’s first attempts at capturing the boy’s tiny planet. The manuscript’s 30,000 words of text, which were eventually winnowed to less than half that, reveal references to Manhattan, Long Island and Rockefeller Center, all eventually excised, and a list of evocative phrases weighed by Saint-Exupéry before he settled on what would become the book’s central line: “what is essential is invisible to the eye.”
这场展览的关键是圣-埃克苏佩里的原始手稿。透过有咖啡渍的草稿修改、最初的水彩画以及私人信件和草图，《小王子》的构思过程被生动地呈现出来。同时展出的还有最早的素描——小王子和他的宠物狐狸这些人物就是从这些素描演化而来的——以及圣-埃克苏佩里最初画的几幅描绘小王子的小星球的素描。手稿最初有三万字，最终被精简到不到一半——原稿提到曼哈顿、长岛和洛克菲勒中心的部分最终都被删除了。手稿中还列举了一组能引起共鸣的词句，圣-埃克苏佩斟酌再三，最终选择了那句成为全书中心句的话：“本质的东西用眼睛是看不见的。”
“A New York Story” is a testament to the enduring impact of the fairy tale’s philosophies, for children and adults alike. Present at the Morgan is one of “The Little Prince’s” first reviews, written by P.L. Travers. With prescience, the “Mary Poppins” author declares, “The Little Prince will shine upon children with a sidewise gleam. It will strike them in some place that is not the mind and glow there until the time comes for them to comprehend it.”
“一个纽约故事”证明了这个童话故事的哲理对孩子和大人长久的影响力。摩根的展览还展出了P·L·特拉韦尔(P.L. Travers)写的最早的一篇对《小王子》的书评。《玛丽·波平斯》(Mary Poppins)系列的作者预见道，“《小王子》将用一道侧光照耀孩子们。它将照到头脑之外的某个地方，在那里发光，直到他们长大后能够理解。”
On view at The Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, January 24 through April 27; themorgan.org.
摩根图书馆&博物馆，麦迪逊大道225号；1月24日至4月27日；themorgan.org。