Just last year, Beyoncé Knowles was photographed holding the BlackBerry Bold P’9981, a model designed by Porsche that sold for more than $2,000.
就在2012年，碧昂斯·诺斯(Beyoncé Knowles)还被拍到手拿黑莓Bold P’9981手机，那是一款售价超过2000美金的保时捷特别定制版。
How the mighty have tumbled. In September, BlackBerry entered an agreement for its $4.7 billion sale to a consortium led by Fairfax Financial; a recent earnings report suggests a company in financial free fall. BlackBerry models are selling for $11.99 on eBay. Even Goldman Sachs, an adviser to BlackBerry, allows employees to get company email on iPhones and Androids.
然而世界变化快。9月份，黑莓与一家隶属于Fairfax Financial的财团达成了一项价值47亿美金的出售协议；一份最近的收益报告显示这家公司正在经历财务上的急剧下跌。黑莓的手机在eBay网上的售价低至11.99美金。即便是高盛(Goldman Sachs)这样的黑莓顾问公司，也允许员工们使用iPhone和安卓手机接收公司邮件。
But holdouts for the device (more than you think) now congregate online to report sightings of the latest models (“Finally saw a guy with a Z10 at work. Couldn’t tell you what he looked like but his phone was gorgeous!”), even on television shows like “NCIS” and “White Collar.” One fan noted that President Obama’s selfie with the prime ministers David Cameron of Britain and Helle Thorning-Schmidt of Denmark at the Nelson Mandela memorial service was taken with a Z10. And when Susan Rice, the national security adviser, appeared on “60 Minutes” with her BlackBerry, it was perhaps the ultimate endorsement of the device’s reputation for superior encryption.
但是黑莓的铁杆粉丝们（比你想象的更多）如今却纷纷在网上发布目击到最新型号的消息（“终于看到有人在工作中使用一部Z10。没法告诉你他的样子，但是他那部手机却真是帅呆了！”），甚至在电视剧《海军罪案调查处》(NCIS)和《白领》(White Collar)中也出现了它的身影。有一个粉丝注意到总统奥巴马与英国首相大卫·卡梅隆(David Cameron)以及丹麦首相赫勒·托宁·施密特(Helle Thorning－Schmidt)在纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的追悼会上的自拍合影就来自一部黑莓Z10。尤其是国家安全顾问苏珊·赖斯(Susan Rice)和她的黑莓手机一起出现在《时事60分钟》(60 Minutes)访谈节目中，这或许就是对黑莓优秀加密技术声誉的终极认可。
Though such policy-wonk cred persists, being able to trade BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) contact information no longer indicates that you are a member of an elite set; the feature has been all but usurped by iMessages and Twitter direct messages.
即便是有这样的一群政客力挺，能够交换黑莓消息服务(BBM)的联系人信息也不再表明你来自精英阶层；这样的功能已经完全被iMessages和Twitter的直接消息服务所取代。
“I was courting a woman long-distance and we did BBM all the time,” said Rob Fong, 54, a former Sacramento City Council member. “When she moved up here, she got her first iPhone. I made her keep her BlackBerry so we could BBM. She’s canceled it now that we’re married.”
“我当时正处在一场异地恋中，我们一直在用BBM，”罗布·方(Rob Fong)，一个54岁的前萨科拉曼托市议员说道。“当她搬来这里以后，她有了第一部iPhone。我让她留着她的黑莓手机，这样我们就可以继续使用BBM。现在我们结婚了，她也已经取消了这项服务。”
Mr. Fong knows only one other BlackBerry user, but he has no plans to trade his in.
方先生仅认识另外一位黑莓手机用户，但是他却没打算换掉他的手机。
“People make fun of me when I take my phone out,” he said. “I feel like I have an eight-track tape player in my car. When did I become that person? But I love it. And I register every time I get an egregious error typed on an iPhone.”
“当我拿出我的手机时，人们总是取笑我，”他说，“我感觉好像我的车里装着一个过时的八轨磁带播放机。我什么时候变成那样的人了？但是我真的喜欢它。而且在iPhone上打字的时候，每次出现大错都让我印象深刻。”
Roberta Kaplan, 47, a partner at the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, owns a BlackBerry and an iPhone. Being loyal to the former, she said, is “not cool or even retro-cool. I just can’t write a whole paragraph on an iPhone but I’ve written 10-page briefs on my BlackBerry.”
47岁的罗博塔·卡普兰(Roberta Kaplan)是保罗，维斯，里夫金德，沃顿和加里森律师事务所的合伙人，她同时拥有一部黑莓和一部iPhone。作为前者的忠实用户，她说，“并不是因为这样很酷，或是追求复古。我只是很难在iPhone上书写大段的文字，然而在黑莓手机上我甚至可以完成长达10页的简报。”
It’s not just government, law and financial firms that assign BlackBerries to their employees. Prada does, too, although the company’s Instagram account would indicate that someone in Milan is an iPhone user.
并不仅仅是政府部门，法律和金融公司也将黑莓手机发给雇员。普拉达(Prada)也是如此，虽然公司的Instagram帐号里的内容可能会显示身在米兰的某些人其实是iPhone用户。
In part perhaps because BlackBerry long cultivated members of the fashion world with giveaways and promotions, there are many in that field who cling to their chic-in-2006 gizmo.
从某种程度上讲，这或许是因为黑莓长期通过赠品和促销在时尚领域内培养用户群，而他们中有很多人痴迷于这种在2006年引领风潮的小物件。
“The party’s going on on Instagram, and I feel left out,” said Robin Zachary, a stylist and art director who said she is “over 40” and lives in Chelsea. But she won’t give up her BlackBerry. “I can type faster than a speeding bullet on that keyboard.”
“Instagram上的狂欢还在继续，但我感觉被遗忘了，”罗宾·扎卡里(Robin Zachary)说道，她是一位“年过40”，住在切尔西的造型师和艺术总监。但是她不愿丢弃她的黑莓手机。“在那样的键盘上，我可以键字如飞。”
Carol Straley, 62, works in public relations for beauty clients and loves the way her BlackBerry Bold fits in her hand.
卡罗尔·斯泰利(Karol Straley)，62岁，是一位美容业的公关。她非常喜欢黑莓Bold手机的良好手感。
“I could be backstage during fashion week, waiting for the show to begin, or on my way to breakfast with an editor and need to be checking my email all the time,” she said. “That’s your lifeline. But on the other hand, I am intrigued by all the capabilities of the iPhone, not least of which are the aesthetics.”
“在时装周里，我可能会在后台等待走秀开场，或者是与某位编辑在去往早餐会的路上，我需要时刻查询邮件，”她说，“这是你的生命线。但是另一方面，我也被iPhone的强大功能所吸引，尤其是那些凸显美感的设计。”
Owning a BlackBerry indicates a gravitas and devotion to work that the iPhone does not.
拥有一部黑莓手机能够表明你对工作的严肃态度和热爱，但iPhone却不能带给人们同样的感受。
“There’s a certain frivolity about the iPhone: playing games, watching videos, Pinterest, Snapchat,” said David Shapiro, 25, a student at Brooklyn Law School who got his first BlackBerry in 2006. “Owning a BlackBerry is the opposite of a status object now. It’s like driving a junk car.”
“iPhone能够带来一定的趣味性：玩游戏，看视频，上Pinterest，用Snapchat，”大卫·夏皮罗(David Shapiro)说，他是一个25岁的布鲁克林法学院的在校生，2006年他拥有了自己的第一部黑莓手机，“使用黑莓手机已经成为身份象征的对立面。就好像开一辆破旧的汽车。”
That is true even when compared to older technologies, he said, “because people who have flip-phones seem to have taken a principled stand against encroaching technology, which is its own kind of status thing.”
即使与更久远的科技相比也依然如此，他说，“因为那些还在使用翻盖手机的人们似乎在表明他们针对技术侵犯的原则立场，这本身也是一种身份的体现。”
Just this week, Mr. Shapiro gave in to the siren call of the iPhone. But, he said, “I am keeping a spare BlackBerry in my backpack just in case.”
就在这一周，夏皮罗终于没有抵挡住iPhone的诱惑。但是，他说，“我还留着一部黑莓手机放在背包里以防不时之需。”