TWO years ago, a student of mine named Nicole was torn on where to start her career. While applying for jobs in finance, technology, consulting and marketing, she suddenly realized that her biggest concern wasn’t what she did, but where she worked.
两年前，我的一个名叫妮科尔的学生纠结于从哪里开始自己的职业生涯。当她在金融、技术、咨询和营销等领域求职时，她忽然意识到最大的问题并不是她要做什么，而是要去哪家公司工作。
When it comes to landing a good job, many people focus on the role. Although finding the right title, position and salary is important, there’s another consideration that matters just as much: culture. The culture of a workplace — an organization’s values, norms and practices — has a huge impact on our happiness and success.
一说到找一份好工作，很多人都会关注岗位。虽然合适的头衔、职位和收入很重要，但还有另一件同等重要的事：文化。职场文化——一个组织的价值观、规则和实践——对我们的幸福和成功有重大的影响。
But how do you figure out the culture of a company you’ve never worked for? As Nicole tried to evaluate company cultures, she kept asking the Passover question: “How is this organization different from all other organizations?” And, as with Passover, I told Nicole, the answer should come in the form of a story. Ask people to tell you a story about something that happened at their organization but wouldn’t elsewhere.
但是你如何弄清一家你从未工作过的企业的文化呢？为了评估企业的文化，妮科尔借用了逾越节的发问方式：“是什么让这家组织与所有其他组织有所不同？”我告诉妮科尔，和逾越节一样，回答的形式应该是一个故事。让别人给你讲一件只有在他们的组织才会发生的事情。
After collecting stories from people at different levels of an organization, Nicole noticed that they touched on common themes. That was a good sign: There was some consensus about the company’s values. But when she talked to other companies, the same kinds of stories kept surfacing in every company she talked to. Why?
妮科尔在同一家公司搜集不同层级的人的故事，她发现这些故事都有共同的主题。这是一个好的征兆，说明该公司的员工对企业价值观有一定程度的共识。但是，当她继续去问别的公司时，她发现相同类型的故事反复出现。这是为什么？
Three decades ago, in a classic study, a team of researchers led by the Stanford professor Joanne Martin analyzed the stories people told about their workplaces. They discovered an organizational uniqueness bias: People think their cultures are more distinctive than they really are.
三十年前，斯坦福大学教授乔安·马丁(Joanne Martin)带领她的研究团队进行了一项经典的研究。他们分析了员工讲的关于他们公司的故事。他们发现，组织存在独特性偏见：员工会认为自家公司的文化很特别，但实际上却并非如此。
Across organizations large and small, private and public, from manufacturing to knowledge to service work, Professor Martin’s team found seven stories over and over. “Organizational cultures, and in particular stories, carry a claim to uniqueness — that an institution is unlike any other,” the researchers wrote. But paradoxically, the same stories occur “in virtually identical form, in a wide variety of organizations.”
不论是大公司，还是小公司，不论是私营企业，还是公共企业，不论是制造业工作，知识类工作，还是服务类工作。马丁教授的团队发现了七个被反复讲述的故事。“组织文化，尤其是具体的故事，总是声称其特殊性——声称这家组织和其他的都不一样。”研究者写道。然而，矛盾的是，同样的故事“以基本相同的形式出现在各种各样的组织中。”
Far from being bad news, this study allows job seekers to zero in on the important questions about culture. Let’s look at four stories the study identified:
这对求职者来说绝不是一个坏消息。这项研究让求职者能够把注意力转向企业文化的重要问题。让我们来看看这项研究发现的四个故事：
Story 1: Is the Big Boss Human?
故事1：大老板是否富有人性？
The plot involves an authority figure who has a chance to act as if she’s better than everyone else. The insurance company president who takes his turn fielding calls on the company’s switchboard throughout the year: He’s one of us. The executive who doesn’t let anyone use his parking spot — even when he’s on vacation — maintains an air of superiority. This is one of the big debates about Steve Jobs: Was he a narcissist who felt entitled to special treatment or a leader who sought to bring out the excellence in all his employees?
故事的主线是一个权威管理者在有机会让自己享受特殊待遇时是否会这么做。要么是，保险公司的总裁全年都和大家一起轮流代接总机电话：说明他是我们中的一员。要么是，高管不让其他任何人使用自己的停车位——即使他在度假——给人一种高高在上的印象。这是人们关于史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)的最大的争论之一：他是感觉自己应享受特殊待遇的自恋狂，还是试图激发所有员工走向卓越的领导者？
Story 2: Can the Little Person Rise to the Top?
故事2：小人物能爬到塔尖吗？
The uplifting version of this story is a Horatio Alger tale. Colleen Barrett begins her Southwest Airlines career as a secretary and lands in the presidency; Jim Ziemer starts at Harley-Davidson as a freight elevator operator and rides all the way to the corner office. In the more depressing variation, a low-status employee achieves great things but is denied promotions.
这个故事有一个让人振奋的版本，宛如霍瑞修·爱尔杰(Horatio Alger)笔下的小说。科琳·巴雷特(Colleen Barrett)进入职场时是西南航空(Southwest Airlines)的秘书，最后她成了公司总裁；吉姆·齐默(Jim Ziemer)从哈雷-戴维森公司(Harley-Davidson)的货梯操作员起步，一路平步青云，坐进了最好的办公室。这类故事也有一个让人沮丧的版本，基层员工虽然取得了不错的成就，但就是没有获得升迁。
Story 3: Will I Get Fired?
故事3：我会被解雇吗？
The organization may need to conduct layoffs: What does the leader do? Contrast the former Walmart chief executive Michael Duke, who slashed more than 13,000 jobs while raking in $19.2 million, with Charles Schwab executives’ taking pay cuts to avoid downsizing — and giving employees who lost their jobs a bonus when they were rehired.
一家公司可能会需要裁员：领导会怎么做？沃尔玛前首席执行官迈克尔·杜克(Michael Duke)裁去了逾1.3万个岗位，自己却拿走了1920万美元的薪水。与之相反，嘉信理财集团(Charles Schwab)的高管选择了减薪来避免人员缩减——当失业员工被返聘时，他们还能获得一笔奖金。
Story 4: How Will the Boss React to Mistakes?
故事4：老板对错误会作何反应？
In many organizations, employees are fired for errors. Some stories point to a different culture, like the famous one at IBM in the 1960s. After an employee made a mistake that cost the company $10 million, he walked into the office of Tom Watson, the C.E.O., expecting to get fired. “Fire you?” Mr. Watson asked. “I just spent $10 million educating you.”
在很多组织中，员工因为犯错而遭解雇。一些故事则反映出不同的文化，比如IBM公司在60年代出过一则著名的故事。一名员工因为犯错，导致公司损失1000万美元。当他走进首席执行官汤姆·沃森(Tom Watson)的办公室时，他以为自己会被解雇。“解雇你？”沃森反问。“我刚花了1000万来教育你。”
Take a close look at these stories, and you’ll see that they deal with three fundamental issues. First is justice: Is this a fair place? Second is security: Is it safe to work here? Third is control: Can I shape my destiny and have influence in this organization?
仔细研究这些故事，你会发现它们都围绕三个基本问题。第一是公正：这是一个行事公平的地方吗？第二是安全感：在这里工作安全吗？第三是控制：我能不能掌握自己的命运，在组织里发挥影响力？
When the big boss is human, the little guy makes it to the top, and leaders try to protect employees even when times are tough and mistakes are made, we judge the culture as just, safe and controllable.
如果大老板富有人性，小人物有机会升入高层，当时局艰难和有人犯错时领导人会努力保护员工，我们就会认为这样的企业文化是公正、安全而可控的。
The other three stories are “Will the Organization Help Me When I Have to Move?” “What Happens When a Boss Is Caught Breaking a Rule?” and “How Will the Organization Deal With Obstacles?” They’re all concerned with the same three issues. If people are supported when they relocate, leaders follow the same rules as everyone else, and everyone takes initiative to solve problems quickly, we don’t worry as much that the organization is unfair, that we’ll lose our jobs for blowing the whistle, or that no one will join us if we try to change the culture.
剩下的三个故事是“当我不得不走时，我的组织会帮助我吗”；“当老板被发现违规时会怎样”；以及“组织会如何应对障碍”。它们也都与上面三个基本问题有关。如果企业支持员工去其他地方，领导层和其他人遵守相同的规则，每个人都主动地快速解决问题，我们就不用担心这家组织会不会不公平，不用担心揭发错事会让自己丢掉工作，也不用担心在我们试图改变文化时会孤立无援。
Of course, it’s true that some elements of cultures are unique, but those are the least important parts. The M.I.T. professor Edgar H. Schein observes that the most visible parts of an organization’s culture are the artifacts and practices — how people talk, look and act. There are lots of organizations where people laugh at unique jokes, speak in unusual jargon, decorate their office spaces in unconventional ways, or have funky rules and norms. But the more defining parts of a culture are its values. Values are the principles people say are important and, more crucially, the principles people show are important through their actions.
当然，确实有一些文化元素是独特的，但那些都是最不重要的部分。麻省理工学院的教授埃德加·H·沙因(Edgar H. Schein)注意到，一个组织的文化中最显而易见的部分是其中的人为痕迹和实践——人们的谈吐、外形及行为。在很多组织中，人们开着特别的玩笑，说着不同寻常的专业术语，用新颖的方式装饰办公空间，或者遵循奇怪的规则。但是，文化的核心是价值观。价值观是人们口中表示重视的原则，更关键的，它还是人们通过行为反映出来的他们的确重视的原则。
The original study of the uniqueness bias was done three decades ago. If we did it again today, we’d find new kinds of stories about whether leaders attempt to make work fun with a Ping-Pong table or try to encourage innovation by allowing employees to spend 20 percent of their time working on new ideas. Interestingly, though, the values behind these artifacts and practices still link to the core questions about fairness, safety and control. If an organization values innovation, you can assume it’s safe to speak up with new ideas, leaders will listen, and your voice matters. When fun is a priority, it signals that leaders care about people as well as profits, and you can express yourself freely.
对独特性偏见的最初研究已经过去30年了。倘若今天再做一次，我们会发现新的故事种类，比如领导者是否会尝试用乒乓球台来增加工作中的乐趣，会不会允许员工用20%的时间来寻找新的想法，以鼓励创新。不过，有趣的是，在这些人为痕迹和实践的背后，价值观仍然与这些核心问题有关：公正、安全和控制。如果一家组织重视创新，你就可以认为提出新想法是安全的，领导会聆听，你的话语会受到重视。当乐趣成为优先事项时，这就表明领导层在关心利润的同时，也关心员工，你可以畅所欲言。
It’s always tempting to look for a great culture, but since bad is often stronger than good and toxic behaviors wreak more havoc than positive behaviors breed joy, it’s probably wiser to first rule out the worst cultures. When stories suggest that an organization is wildly unfair, unsafe or immovable, cross it off your list. And beware of joining a company with a bad reputation in the hopes that you’ll be the exception: the rare little guy who rises to the top. Rather than changing a cutthroat culture from the bottom, many people end up counting themselves lucky if they walk away without permanent scars.
寻找不错的文化氛围总是件诱人的事情，但鉴于坏影响通常会超过好影响，糟糕行为造成的破坏会大于积极行为带来的快乐，首先排除最糟糕的文化大概是一个更为明智的做法。当某家组织传出的故事说明它极不公平、不安全或不可变通时，那就将它从备选名单中划掉。加入一个声誉不好的公司时，不要幻想你会是例外：能成为少有的升到顶层的小人物。很多人没能做到从根本上改变残酷无情的企业文化，而是离开时没有留下永久的伤疤，那就算很幸运了。
If you’re still unsure where to work, start asking for stories about one practice that says a lot about a culture — a practice that consumes more than half of the time in big organizations. When people find it productive and enjoyable, that’s a good sign. A quote sometimes attributed to Dave Barry said it best: “If you had to identify, in one word, the reason the human race has not achieved, and never will achieve, its full potential, that word would be ‘meetings.’ ”
如果你仍不确定到哪里工作，那就请人说说能够在很大程度上体现企业文化的一项实践——大型组织需要耗费多半时间来开展的一件事。当人们觉得这件事富有成效而且令人愉快时，那就是一个好征兆。有一句也许出自戴夫·巴里(Dave Barry)之口的话说得很好：“如果非要用一个词来说明人类没有或永远不会发挥全部潜力的原因，那就是‘会议’。”