LONDON — The British bank HSBC, in a major revamping of its global strategy, said on Tuesday that it would shed as many as 50,000 jobs as it sells several underperforming businesses, reduces the size of its global investment banking business and aims to cut billions of dollars in costs.
伦敦——周二，正在大规模重整全球战略的英国汇丰银行表示，公司将出售一些业绩不佳的业务，缩小全球投资银行业务规模，削减数十亿美元的开销，在此过程中将会裁减多达五万个工作岗位。
The bank said it would eliminate 22,000 to 25,000 full-time jobs, or about 10 percent of its work force, through restructuring by the end of 2017. It also plans to reduce its head count by an additional 25,000 positions through the sale of its underperforming businesses in Turkey and Brazil.
汇丰银行表示，在2017年底前将通过结构调整削减2.2万至2.5万个全职岗位，即减少10%左右的劳动力。公司还计划通过出售在土耳其和巴西的业绩的不佳业务，再额外减少2.5万个岗位。
HSBC said that it would increase its investment in Asia, where it generates more than half of its earnings, while it seeks to cut costs by up to $5 billion annually within two years. The bank said it would complete a review of whether to move its headquarters from Britain by the end of the year.
汇丰银行表示将提高其在亚洲的投资，公司超过一半的收入都来源于这里，但他们仍希望在未来两年内每年削减高达50亿美元支出，并称在年底会评估决定是否将总部搬离英国。
Stuart Gulliver, the bank’s chief executive, is under pressure to satisfy investors amid recent scandals that have damaged the lender’s reputation and as HSBC faces an increasingly challenging regulatory environment in Britain and across the globe.
汇丰银行首席执行官欧智华(Stuart Gulliver)为了能让投资者满意，正面临巨大压力。最近的丑闻损害了银行的名誉，同时银行在英国和全球范围内也面临愈发严格的监管环境。
The bank, which has operations in 73 countries and territories, has exited dozens of underperforming businesses in recent years as it looks to cut costs and reduce its risk.
业务遍及世界73个国家和地区的汇丰银行为了削减开支、降低风险，最近几年已经终止了数十个业绩不佳的业务。
Investors did not seem impressed on Tuesday, with the bank’s shares down about 1.2 percent in late-morning trading in London. The stock value has fallen about 2.5 percent over the past year.
但周二，投资者们并没有表现出多大兴趣，汇丰银行在伦敦早盘末段股价也下跌了约1.2%。过去一年股票价值已下跌2.5%。
“This was not the massive shake-up some investors had been hoping for,” Chirantan Barua, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a research note. HSBC “has failed to bring out anything radically different from moves which have been widely expected for some months now.”
“这些举措并不是一些投资者所期待的巨大变革，”桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)分析师奇兰坦·巴鲁阿(Chirantan Barua)在一份研究摘要中指出。汇丰银行“没有什么非常出人意料的决定，各方几个月前就预料到了这些举措”。
Raul Sinha and Vivek Gautam, analysts at JPMorgan Chase, said in a research note that it was positive that the bank was taking actions to shrink its low-return businesses, but that “the changes announced are unlikely to positively impact earnings estimates.”
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的分析师劳尔·辛哈(Raul Sinha)和维维克· 高塔姆(Vivek Gautam)在一份研究摘要中说，银行采取行动缩减低回报率业务是积极举措，但是“已公布的变动不太可能对收益估值产生明显影响”。
The plans announced on Tuesday are the second major job reductions at HSBC since Mr. Gulliver became chief executive in 2011. A number of the bank’s rivals, including Barclays, Credit Suisse and Royal Bank of Scotland, have announced similar plans to reduce the size of their work forces and exit higher risk businesses.
周二宣布的计划是2011年欧智华上任首席执行官后，汇丰银行第二次大幅裁员。汇丰银行的部分竞争对手，包括巴克莱(Barclays)、瑞士信贷(Credit Suisse)和苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)在内，都已宣布类似的计划以削减雇员数量，终止高风险业务。
HSBC said that it expected about 12,000 to 13,000 of the job cuts to result from streamlining and automating processes at the bank. An additional 7,000 to 8,000 were expected to come from closing branches and eliminating back office functions as more banking shifts online and to mobile devices. HSBC expects to reduce its number of branches by 12 percent.
汇丰银行预计有1.2万至1.3万个岗位的削减是通过银行的精简和自动化来实现的。由于越来越多的银行业务向网络和移动设备上转移，还有7000至8000个岗位削减将来自关闭分行和裁撤后台部门。汇丰银行预计，分行数量将减少12%。
About 8,000 of the job cuts are expected in Britain, where HSBC employs about 46,000 people.
在英国，汇丰银行雇佣了约4.6万人，据预计本次将有约8000人在这里被裁减。
HSBC cut about 37,000 jobs from 2011 to 2014, but it has not benefited as much as it had hoped from the move because costs associated with regulatory compliance skyrocketed in recent years and its returns in Asia were disappointing.
在2011年至2014年间，汇丰银行曾削减约3.7万个职位，但公司并未从这项举措中获得预计好处。为符合监管规定而产生的成本近年来急剧增加，公司在亚洲的收益也不甚理想。
The lender spent more than $11 billion on regulatory and compliance charges in the past four years as it faced a number of investigations and agreed to a series of settlements related to accusations of money laundering and the rigging of foreign exchange markets.
过去四年中，由于面临许多调查，并且同意了一些有关洗钱和操纵外汇市场指控的和解协议，汇丰银行在监管合规方面的花费超过了110亿美元。
The bank has also faced recent inquiries into its small Swiss private bank operation, as prosecutors examine whether it helped wealthy clients evade taxes.
最近其下属小型瑞士私人银行的运营也面临调查，检方正检查该银行是否存在帮助富有客户避税的行为。
The overhaul of the HSBC was announced just days after Deutsche Bank said its co-chief executives, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen, would resign. Deutsche Bank has faced pressure from investors as its legal and regulatory costs have risen drastically in recent years.
在汇丰宣布裁员计划的几天前，德意志银行刚刚宣布其联席首席执政官安舒·贾恩(Anshu Jain)和于尔根·菲辰(Jürgen Fitschen)将辞职。由于法律和管理成本在近些年的大幅上涨，德意志银行一直面临来自投资者的压力。
Like many of its rivals, HSBC is looking to reduce the amount of riskier assets on its balance sheet, including cutting the size of its global banking and markets business and focusing on strategically important and profitable businesses.
如同其许多竞争对手一样，汇丰正寻求减少其资产负债表上的高风险资产，包括缩小其全球银行和市场业务的规模，专注于有战略意义和盈利能力的业务。
HSBC said it would reduce so-called risk-weighted assets, a measure of the risk of the capital it holds, by 25 percent, or about $290 billion. About half of those reductions will come from the investment banking business, the lender said.
汇丰说将会减少25%的所谓风险加权资产——一种对持有资产的风险衡量，即2900亿美元左右。银行称大约一半的减持将会来自投资银行业务。
The sale of its operations in Turkey and in Brazil had been anticipated for some time, but the bank said it would keep a presence in Brazil to serve large corporate clients.
出售在土耳其和巴西的业务早在意料之中，但银行说会在巴西保持一定力量，以服务大公司客户。
In February, Mr. Gulliver identified the Brazilian and Turkish businesses among four “problem” markets where HSBC would seek more extreme restructuring measures if returns did not improve. The bank is also seeking improvement in its operations in Mexico and in the United States.
今年二月，欧智华将巴西和土耳其的业务认定为四个“问题”市场中的两个，如果回报没有改善的话，汇丰将要寻求更极端的重组办法。该行同时也在寻求改善在墨西哥和美国的业务。
While it sought to cut costs by up to $5 billion annually within two years, the lender said it expected to book restructuring costs of $4 billion to $4.5 billion over that period.
在寻求两年内削减每年高达50亿美元成本的同时，汇丰预计这一期间会列支40至45亿美元的重组成本。
In April, HSBC announced that it was formally reviewing whether to move its headquarters from Britain. The bank is facing a shifting regulatory landscape in Britain that includes a bank tax that has hit British lenders particularly hard.
四月，汇丰宣布其正在正式评估是否把总部搬出英国的议题。该银行在伦敦正面临着监管环境的变化，其中包括一种已经导致英国贷款机构遭遇重创的银行税。
The government has raised the bank tax, known as a bank levy, nine times since it was introduced, taking in 5.3 billion pounds, or about $8.1 billion, according to the British Bankers’ Association.
据英国银行家协会(British Bankers’Association)说，英国政府已经将这种被称为“银行征费”(bank levy)的银行税提高至开征时的九倍，征收53亿英镑，合81亿美元。
HSBC’s payment has more than doubled since 2012. The tax cost the bank about $1.1 billion in 2014, when HSBC reported a profit of $13.7 billion.
汇丰缴付的税费从2012年至今已经增长了一倍以上。2014年他们缴纳了11亿美元银行税，而汇丰报告的盈利为137亿美元。
The bank, which traces its roots to Hong Kong, has been based in Britain since 1993.
起源可以被追溯到香港的汇丰银行，自1993年起一直把总部驻在英国。
Banks in Britain will be required by 2019 to shield their retail banking operations from the effects of investment banking and other activities in the event of another financial crisis — a process known as ring-fencing.
英国的银行被要求在2019年之前把它们的零售银行业务与包括投资银行业务在内的其他活动分离，以应对潜在的下一次金融危机，这是一种设立“围栏”的过程。
As part of its restructuring, HSBC said that it planned to begin setting up a ring-fenced bank in Britain.
作为重组的一部分，汇丰说其计划开始在英国设立一家设立了“围栏”的银行。
Despite reducing the size of its business in some markets, HSBC said it planned to expand its asset management and insurance operations in Asia in hopes of capturing “expected opportunities from emerging wealth in the region.”
尽管在一些市场收缩了业务规模，汇丰说其计划在亚洲扩张其资产管理和保险业务，以期捕捉“来自该区域新兴财富的预期机遇”。
It also plans to increase its business in the Pearl River Delta area in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong, and in parts of Southeast Asia.
汇丰还计划在中国南方省份广东的珠三角地区以及一些南亚地区增加业务。