DÜSSELDORF, Germany — The co-pilot at the controls of the German jetliner that crashed in the French Alps last week informed Lufthansa in 2009 that he had suffered from severe depression, the company said Tuesday.
德国杜塞尔多夫——汉莎航空(Lufthansa)周二表示，德国客机上周在法国阿尔卑斯山区坠毁时操控飞机的副驾驶，2009年时曾向该公司告知，自己患有严重的抑郁症。
Lufthansa said a search of its records found an email showing that the co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, had informed it of his condition as he was seeking to rejoin its training program after a monthslong absence. The airline said in a statement that Lubitz had sent its flight training school an email including medical documents describing a “previous episode of severe depression.”
汉莎航空称，在检索了公司的记录之后发现了一封电子邮件，上面显示这位名叫安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)的副驾驶，曾向公司告知自己的状况，当时，他刚刚结束几个月的休假，想要重新加入训练项目。这家航空公司在一份声明中说，卢比茨给公司的飞行训练学校发了一封邮件，其中的医学材料里，描述了“此前严重抑郁症发作”的情况。
Lufthansa is the parent company of the budget Germanwings airline that operated the jet that crashed on March 24.
汉莎航空是廉价航空公司德国之翼(Germanwings)的母公司，后者是3月24日坠毁客机的运营方。
Lufthansa said it had now turned the information over to the German prosecutor investigating the crash, in which Lubitz and the other 149 people aboard the plane were killed.
汉莎航空称，已经把上述信息交给了调查空难的德国检方。这场事故导致卢比茨和机上另外149人全部遇难。
It was the first acknowledgment by Lufthansa that it knew of Lubitz's mental health issues before the crash last Tuesday and raised further questions about why the airline allowed Lubitz to complete his training and go on to fly passenger jets. Prosecutors in Germany said Monday that he had been treated for suicidal tendencies but did not say when, and Lufthansa's statement did not address when Lubitz's depression had occurred, what treatment he might have received or what if any follow-up there was with Lubitz by the airline.
这是汉莎航空首次承认，在上周二空难之前就已经知道卢比茨的精神健康问题。这个消息促使人们对该公司为何允许卢比茨完成训练并驾驶客机，提出了更多的疑问。德国检方周一表示，卢比茨曾因自杀倾向接受过治疗，但未透露具体时间。汉莎航空的声明未提及卢比茨是何时患上抑郁症的，没有透露他接受过何种治疗，也没有提到如果汉莎航空跟进卢比茨的病情，结果又会如何。
Lufthansa's statement on Tuesday came five days after its chief executive, Carsten Spohr, a former pilot, said Lubitz had been deemed by the airline to be “100 percent flightworthy without any limitations.”
在汉莎航空周二发表声明的五天前，其首席执行官卡斯滕·施波尔(Carsten Spohr)表示，公司之前认为卢比茨“百分之百适合飞行，没有任何限制因素”。施波尔也曾是一名飞行员。
Spohr said last week that candidates for flight school were chosen not only on the basis of their technical ability but also their psychological fitness. He said that Lufthansa's screening process was considered state of the art “and we're very proud of it.”
施波尔上周表示，挑选飞行学校的候选人时，不仅考虑了他们的技术能力，还考虑了他们的心理健康情况。他说，汉莎航空的筛选程序被认为是最完备的，“而且我们对此非常自豪”。