VIENTIANE, Laos — On alternate mornings, in a sparsely furnished classroom at a private school in the Laotian capital, Liphakone Ratthida and a dozen of his classmates converse in Chinese and study China’s history and culture.
老挝万象——每隔一天的早上，在老挝首都万象的一家私立学校的简朴教室里，利帕贡·拉提达(Liphakone Ratthida)会与十几名同学用汉语对话，学习中国的历史与文化。
Though he goes by the Chinese name Li Panda, Mr. Ratthida is not of Chinese ancestry, nor has he been to China.
尽管他使用中文名李盼达（Li Panda，音译），拉提达实际上并非华人，也从未去过中国。
His experience of China is limited to Chinese period dramas on Laotian television and stories from cousins who have studied there. “What I know about China is that it has many luxurious buildings,” he said. “And in China, the universities are better, and the jobs pay better.”
他对中国的感受也仅限于老挝电视上播放的中国古装剧，以及在那里上学的表亲。“我知道中国有很多高楼大厦，”他说。“中国的大学更好，工资也更高。”
Like many other young Laotians taking Chinese classes, Mr. Ratthida, 19, is learning the language in the hope of working for Chinese companies, which are investing heavily in Laos, an underdeveloped country of 6.5 million people. The recent influx of Chinese companies has brought jobs and the promise of higher salaries.
与学习中文的其他许多老挝年轻人一样，19岁的拉提达希望，学了这门语言就能够为中国企业工作。老挝是一个欠发达国家，人口650万。中国公司正在此地大举投资，近期涌入的企业带来了工作机会，也带来了较高工资的希望。
“In future, there will be a lot of Chinese companies coming to Laos,” said Mr. Ratthida, who is studying international economics and trade at Soochow University in Laos, which is mainland China’s first university campus abroad. “It is easier to find work at a Chinese company if I can speak the language.”
“将来，会有很多中国企业来老挝。如果我能讲汉语，就能更容易地在中国公司找到工作，”拉提达说。他在老挝苏州大学学习国际经济与贸易专业。这所学校是中国大陆的高等学府在海外设立的首个分校。
Many Chinese schools have sprung up in towns along the Laos-China border, while Chinese schools in Vientiane are gaining popularity and Laotian schools are starting to offer Chinese classes. Laotian government officials are among the parents choosing to put their children in such schools.
在老中边境沿线的城镇，一座座中文学校冒了出来。与此同时，万象的汉语学校越来越受欢迎，老挝语学校也开始教授中文课。选择让子女上这类学校的家长中，就包括老挝的政府官员。
“We have many government officials who send their kids to our school,” said Lin Junxiong, director and principal of the Lieu Tou Chinese School, which opened in 1937 and is Vientiane’s oldest Chinese school. “It is a common sight to see police cars waiting outside the school gate. These parents want their children to study Chinese because the Chinese economy is booming and it is an advantage if they know the language.”
“有很多政府官员把孩子送到我们学校来，”寮都公学(Lieu Tou Chinese School)的董事长兼校长林俊雄说。寮都公学创立于1937年，是万象历史最悠久的华文学校。“经常看到警车等在校门外面。家长希望他们的孩子学习中文，因为中国经济蓬勃发展，如果懂汉语的话，就是一大优势。”
Lieu Tou has seen a spike in enrollment over the past few years. It now has about 2,400 students from kindergarten through high school, a 10 percent increase from a year ago.
过去几年间，寮都公学的入学人数激增。这座囊括从幼儿园到高中的学校目前拥有大约2400名学生，比去年增长了10%。
“In the past, we have 30 students in a class — now we have 40 to 50 students per class,” Mr. Lin said. “Many good students cannot enroll into this school because we have limited classrooms and teachers.”
“过去，我们每个班级有30名学生，现在是四五十个，”林俊雄说。“很多好学生没法来我们学校，因为教室和老师有限。”
The school has 160 teachers, 29 of them from China on two-year stints paid for by the Chinese government. Students learn Lao and Chinese from kindergarten, with English introduced in primary school. Although 10 percent of the students are of Chinese ancestry — Laos has an ethnic Chinese population estimated at 1 to 2 percent — most speak no Chinese when they start, Mr. Lin said.
寮都公学拥有160名教师，其中29人通过中国政府资助的项目来此地进行两年的交流。学生自幼儿园开始学习老挝文和中文，小学时引入英文教育。林俊雄透露，尽管有10%的学生是华人——老挝的华人人口约占1%到2%——多数人入学的时候并不会说汉语。
Xaynousone Oudomsap, an 18-year-old high school student at Lieu Tou, has been learning Chinese for 13 years and has two younger sisters in the same school.
寮都公学18岁的高中生赛努苏·乌敦萨(Xaynousone Oudomsap)已经学习了13年的中文，两个妹妹也上了同一所学校。
“At first, it was difficult learning Chinese because of the complex characters and the different tones,” she said. “Nowadays, there are more international companies in Laos, and it would be easier to find a job if you know more than one language.”
“一开始，中文很难学，因为汉字复杂，声调又难，”她说。“现在，老挝有了更多的跨国企业，如果多懂一门语言的话，就更容易找工作。”
China’s economic influence can be felt throughout Laos, a landlocked country. Chinese companies are building factories and constructing dams on the Mekong River and will soon begin an ambitious high-speed rail project to link Vientiane with Kunming, the capital of the southern Chinese province of Yunnan.
在老挝这个内陆国家里，可以随处感受到中国的经济影响力。中国企业正在建工厂、在湄公河上修大坝，并将很快开启一项雄心勃勃的高铁计划，将万象和中国南部的云南省会昆明连接起来。
Special economic zones have also emerged along the border to encourage Chinese businesses to invest. Near Wattay International Airport, hundreds of Chinese vendors ply their wares at the San Jiang International Market, which is owned by Chinese and known as the Chinese Market.
与中国接壤的地区建起了经济特区，以鼓励中国企业投资。在万象瓦岱国际机场附近的三江国际商贸城(San Jiang International Market)，数百名中国商贩在此兜售货品。这座商城由中国人拥有，俗称中国市场。
“It is like stepping into China,” said Nina Phanouvong, an 18-year-old student at Lieu Tou. “They sell everything Chinese, such as food, clothes and furniture. They even have fake iPhones.”
“就像去了中国一样，”寮都公学的18岁学生妮娜·帕努翁(Nina Phanouvong)说。“他们卖各种中国的东西，吃穿用，甚至还有仿制的iPhone。”
Soochow University, which opened its Vientiane branch last year, is also trying to find a market for its degrees in Laos at a time when top Western universities are looking to enter China. Another mainland Chinese university, Xiamen University, is planning a campus in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
就在西方名校试图进入中国的同时，苏州大学去年开设了万象分校，它想在老挝为自家的学位寻找市场。另一家大陆高等学府厦门大学正策划在马来西亚的吉隆坡设立分校。
“Only by going out can we close in on the top Chinese universities, and we think Laos is a suitable location to begin,” said Wang Jiexian, vice president of Soochow’s Vientiane campus.
老挝苏州大学的副校长汪解先说，“只有走出去，我们才能缩小跟中国一流大学之间的差距。我们认为，老挝是一个合适的起点。”
Soochow is the first foreign university to receive approval from the Laotian government to provide degree programs. The campus offers courses in Laotian law, Chinese literature, economics and trade, as well as Chinese.
老挝苏州大学是首个获得老挝政府批准提供学位项目的外国大学。该校设有老挝法律、中国文学、经济学与贸易，以及中文课程。
“By the time they graduate, all our students will be able to speak Chinese,” Mr. Wang said. “They can speak at least two languages, understand the cultures of the two countries and work well in a Chinese company here.”
汪解先说，“到毕业时，我们的所有学生都能说汉语。他们至少能讲两门语言，还通晓两国文化，在当地的中国公司会有相当不错的发展。”
The campus now operates from temporary premises in suburban Vientiane, pending development of a 57-acre permanent site on former village land on the fringes of the city. The permanent campus has been designed to house 5,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students, but its completion date is uncertain because of a land dispute.
目前，老挝苏州大学在万象市郊的一处临时区域办公，等待把市区边缘的一块原本的农用地开发成57英亩（约合23公顷）的永久校区。按照设计，该校区将能容纳共5000名本科生和研究生。不过，由于一起土地纠纷，其完工日期仍悬而未决。
This year, Soochow has 50 students enrolled in undergraduate programs and 100 registered in evening classes. Undergraduates will spend a year attending classes in Laos before continuing three years of their education on the main campus, which is in the eastern Chinese city of Suzhou and has a student population of over 41,000.
今年，老挝苏州大学录取了50名本科生和100名夜校生。本科生将花一年时间在老挝上课，然后再到本部接受为期三年的教育。学校本部位于华东地区的苏州市，学生总数超过了4.1万人。
The fees are not low by local standards. A year at the Laotian campus costs as much as $1,500, five times the $300 average at local universities. Fees at the Suzhou campus can cost $2,500 a year, though once the new campus is built, students will be able to complete their entire degree program in Laos.
按照当地的标准，这所学校的费用并不低。老挝校区一年的花销高达1500美元（约合9100元人民币），是本土大学300美元平均水平的五倍。苏州校区的费用则高达每年2500美元。不过，在新校区建成后，学生们就能在老挝完成全部的学位课程了。
The university originally planned for the campus to be built in three years, with a $7 million first phase — a cafeteria, a dormitory and a building for classrooms and offices — completed by the end of last year. But for now, all that stands on the site are houses occupied by three village families who have resisted eviction orders.
学校原本计划在三年内完成校区建设，初期投资为700万美元，包括一间餐厅、一栋宿舍楼，还有一栋用作教室和办公室的大楼，定于去年底竣工。但是，目前挺立在这片地块上的，是拒绝服从搬迁令的三家乡村家庭占据的房屋。
“We’ve yet to begin construction because the villagers do not want to move,” Mr. Wang said. “When we try to start, they stop us.”
“我们的建设工作尚未开始，因为村民不愿搬迁，”汪解先说。“每当我们想开工的时候，他们就会出来制止。”
The Laotian government has put together a team to settle the dispute, he said, but “it is now impossible to complete construction in two to three years. We may have to wait.”
他表示，老挝政府召集了一个旨在解决争端的小组，但是，“现在根本不可能在两三年内完成建筑任务。我们也许得耐心等待。”