LONGMEN, China — In the shadow of a lush mountain and near a slow-moving river in southeast China sits this village, whose name means Dragon Gate.
龙门——中国东南部一座葱翠的大山脚下，一条缓缓流淌的江边，坐落着名为“龙门”的小镇。
There are narrow alleys and whitewashed homes and the flesh of sliced bamboo drying on the ground. Its humble appearance, though, belies the fact that it played a role in the famous Three Kingdoms era, when kings leading rival states fought in the third century over the right to succeed the Han empire. The blood-drenched stories were immortalized in a 14th-century classic by Luo Guanzhong, “The Romance of the Three Kingdoms,” which in turn has spawned countless films, television shows and other adaptations.
这里有狭窄的里弄、白色外墙的民居，以及摆放在地上风干的笋片。不过，朴素的外表之下，蕴含着一个事实：这里曾在大名鼎鼎的三国时期占有一席之地。公元3世纪，为了争夺汉室江山，群雄逐鹿。这些充满血腥的故事经14世纪罗贯中撰写的《三国演义》而永久流传。这部著作后来又衍生了无数的影视等改编作品。
“This village is so important because the people are descended from Sun Quan,” said one resident, Sun Yaxiao, 25, as she walked with visitors one afternoon through the alleys. Sun Quan was one of the three major kings in the early period of the Three Kingdoms, a figure known to most Chinese.
一天下午，25岁的居民孙亚晓（音）带着游客穿街走巷，“龙门镇之所以特别重要，是因为我们都是孙权的后代。”孙权是三国初期的三位主要君主之一，在华人当中几乎家喻户晓。
“People named Sun are rare; there just aren’t that many,” she said. “There aren’t as many as those named Huang, for example.”
“孙姓比较少，没有那么常见，”她说，“比方说，就没有姓黄的那么多。”
The village has managed to capitalize on its association with Sun Quan, even though the king never actually lived here. It was his grandfather Sun Zhong, a melon farmer, who was said to be a resident, even though that is debated among scholars. Longmen charges a $13 entrance fee to outsiders, who usually make the 30-mile drive from the provincial capital of Hangzhou.
小镇尽力在利用与孙权的联系，尽管这位吴国君主实际上并未在此生活过。据说孙权祖父孙钟曾在此地种瓜，但就连这一点，学者们也莫衷一是。龙门向外来者收取80元的门票。游客一般从浙江省会杭州驱车50公里来到这里。
There are countless hamlets, towns and cities across China that boast of links to the four or five towering classics of Chinese literature and the historical events on which those works are based. Virtually all Chinese learn these tales, which mix history and myth, and so residents of otherwise obscure locales leap at the chance to latch on to the legends, sometimes for profit.
中国各地有数不清的村镇和城市号称与中国四大或五大文学名著及相关的原始历史事件有关。差不多所有的华人都知道这些混合了历史与传说的故事，因此，在一些本来默默无闻的地方，当地人会抓住机会与它们扯上关系，有时候只是为了牟利。
In the western region of Xinjiang, for instance, the desert town of Turpan has become a big tourist draw because of its proximity to the Flaming Mountains, the site of a well-known episode in “Journey to the West,” a 16th-century novel about the Monkey King’s pilgrimage to India that, like “The Romance of the Three Kingdoms,” is also based on history.
比如，在西部的新疆，沙漠小城吐鲁番因为类似于《西游记》中一个著名章回里的火焰山而成为热门景点。《西游记》是一本16世纪的小说，讲述了美猴王去西天取经的故事。与《三国演义》一样，它也基于历史改编。
“The Three Kingdoms” is to China what “The Iliad” is to the West. Its tales of battlefield heroics and betrayal, palace intrigue and passions, stir the imagination here. It also resonates with the Chinese because its sweeping narrative encapsulates a historical rhythm that they see as an immutable fact, one expressed in the opening lines: “The empire, long divided, must unite; long united, must divide. Thus it has ever been.”
《三国演义》之于中国就好比《伊利亚特》(The Iliad)之于西方。故事里的战场壮举与背叛、宫廷阴谋与情感，激发了人们的想象。它之所以在中国人中产生共鸣，还因为宏大的叙事中蕴含了被他们视为永恒不变真理的历史脉络，也就是开篇所写的：“话说天下大势，分久必合，合久必分。”
But unlike “The Iliad,” “The Three Kingdoms” has wide appeal in modern times. Mao Zedong supposedly studied it for strategy lessons. John Woo, the Hong Kong filmmaker, recently directed an epic, “Red Cliff,” based on a famous battle from the novel. The film was the top earner at the Chinese box office in 2008.
不过，与《伊利亚特》不同，《三国演义》在近现代也颇具吸引力。据说毛泽东曾参照它研究战略。香港导演吴宇森(John Woo)基于书中的一场著名战役执导了史诗片《赤壁》，该片成为了2008年中国最卖座的电影。
Places associated with heroes and villains from “The Three Kingdoms” — Liu Bei, Zhuge Liang, Guan Yu, Cao Cao and, of course, Sun Quan — are scattered across China.
与《三国演义》中的正反角色——刘备、诸葛亮、关羽、曹操，当然还有孙权——有关的地方散见于中国各地。
“In China, there are simply too many places that have become famous because of the Three Kingdoms,” said Fang Beichen, a scholar of the Three Kingdoms at Sichuan University who has visited Longmen. “The number is over a hundred. It’s a very common phenomenon in China.”
四川大学的三国研究学者方北辰说，“在中国，因为与三国有关而出名的地方，实在太多了，有上百处，这是中国非常常见的现象。”他本人也曾去过龙门。
Mr. Fang said Longmen’s ties to the Three Kingdoms were “at best mediocre.” South of the Yangtze River, where Sun Quan’s Kingdom of Wu once existed, there are places with more famous links to the ancient king. The area around Nanjing, where the kingdom’s capital once stood, has a mausoleum reputed to contain Mr. Sun’s remains and a stone citadel that Mr. Sun ordered built, Mr. Fang said.
方北辰表示，龙门与三国之间的关联“最多只能算是一般”。在长江以南，也就是孙权的吴国曾经的所在地，有一些地方与这位古代君主的关系更为出名。方北辰表示，南京曾是吴国的都城，那座城市的周边地区拥有号称埋着孙权遗骸的陵墓，以及一个由孙权下令修建的石头堡垒。
That has not stopped residents of Longmen from claiming not just ties to the Three Kingdoms but to other famous figures — Sun Yat-sen, the 20th-century revolutionary intellectual from Guangdong Province, and Sun Tzu, the author of “The Art of War.”
这并不能让龙门的居民陷入沉默。他们声称，当地不仅与三国有关联，还与其他知名人物有关联，比如20世纪广东省的革命领袖孙中山，以及《孙子兵法》的作者孙子。
Ordinary residents take obvious pride in the village’s ancient roots. Sun Yaxiao, the young woman showing visitors around, boasted that the village had 80 homes dating to the Ming dynasty (1368-1644) and 40 to the Qing dynasty (1644-1911). She said villagers began preserving the homes in 2002, when they realized there was tourism potential. About 10 of the 120 or so buildings are open to the public. Directors of a half-dozen minor films have shot scenes in the village.
小镇的历史渊源让普通居民引以为傲，对此他们丝毫不加以掩饰。年轻的女导游孙亚晓自豪地表示，该镇有80所明代(1368-1644)民居，以及40所清代(1644-1911)民居。她表示，居民们从2002年开始保护这些建筑，当时他们意识到小镇有旅游潜力。在大约120所古宅中，有10所向公众开放。五六部小制作电影都曾到龙门镇取景。
There is an ancestral hall with dark wooden pillars, red lanterns and a cobblestone courtyard. On one wall is a drawing of a complicated family tree showing the dozens of generations of Suns.
龙门有一座祠堂，有着深色木柱、红灯笼，以及鹅卵石铺垫的庭院。其中一面墙上画有复杂的家系图，排列了孙氏家族的几十代人。
“In all of China, this is the place with the most people named Sun,” said Ms. Sun, with perhaps a bit of exaggeration. “The Sun people have gone everywhere — Korea, Singapore and so on.”
“这里是全中国姓孙的人最多的地方，”孙亚晓略带夸张地说道。“孙氏家族的人遍布全球，包括韩国、新加坡等国家。”
Outside the hall, another villager, Sun Ruqi, 16, stood by a street stand selling stinky tofu and liquor made from fermented sorghum, two somewhat dubious local specialties. Badminton rackets are another local specialty — a factory in a nearby village makes them. She was among the Suns who might leave the village a few years from now. “Many young people go out to find work,” she said. “This is a small place.”
在祠堂外，16岁的居民孙如其（音）站在街上卖臭豆腐和高粱酒——两种有些让人心生疑虑的地方特产。附近小镇的一家工厂制造的羽毛球拍也算一种当地特产。未来几年，孙氏家族中可能会有一些人离开古镇，孙如其就是其中之一。“很多年轻人都外出找工作，”她说，“这是个小地方。”
But Longmen plays a big role in local Three Kingdoms lore, according to one resident, Sun Wenxi, who wrote a book on Longmen folk tales. One legend, he wrote, says that Sun Quan attained his monarchical status because of the generosity of his grandfather, the melon farmer. When the grandfather came across three elders passed out in a field one day, he shared half a melon with them. They turned out to be immortals who promised Mr. Sun that within four generations, a king would arise within his family.
但据居民孙文喜透露，龙门在当地有关三国的传说中扮演了重要角色。孙文喜写了一本有关龙门民间故事的书。文中写道，有一个传说称，孙权是因为他种瓜的爷爷的慷慨大方才获得了君主地位。有一天，他爷爷在田间发现了三个昏倒的长者，于是与他们分享了半个瓜。结果这三名长者竟然是神仙，他们向他承诺，孙家四代人中，会出现一位君主。
Sun Quan’s legacy is a mixed one, though, and his story in “The Three Kingdoms” is one of shifting loyalties. He met an ignominious end. Yet he remains “a very special figure” in Chinese history, Mr. Fang said.
不过，孙权身后的名声好坏参半。在《三国演义》的故事中，孙权并非忠贞不渝，而最终则声誉扫地。但方北辰表示，孙权仍然是中国历史中“一个非常特殊的人物”。
“In the first half of his life, Sun Quan was modest and enterprising, readily following good advice,” he said. “But in the second half of his life, he became corrupt and depraved, purged loyal and faithful officials and became a loser in the competition for power. The Wu Kingdom’s prosperity came to an abrupt end. Decline and chaos followed. It’s very important to learn from his lesson, for an individual, a family and the state.”
“孙权在前半生，谦虚努力，从善如流，”方北辰说。“但是在后半生，他却堕落腐化，打击忠臣，变成了权力竞争的失败者，结果使得孙吴的大好局面戛然而止，出现衰败和动乱。吸取他的教训，对个人很重要，对家庭很重要，对国家同样也很重要。”