Donald Trump was caught on tape bragging in vulgar terms about making sexual advances toward a married woman and aggressively kissing and groping other women, and boasting that “when you’re a star they let you do it.”
在一份录音资料中，人们发现唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)用粗俗不堪的语言夸耀自己如何调戏一名已婚妇女，并且强吻其他女性，对她们都手动脚，而且还夸口称，“只要你是个名人，她们就会让你这么做”。
The recording, unearthed by The Washington Post on Friday, was made in 2005 on the set of a soap opera where Trump was making a cameo appearance. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, was captured on an open microphone that he apparently did not know was recording his conversation with Billy Bush, then the host of “Access Hollywood,” with whom he was sitting on a bus.
《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)周五曝光的这份录音资料于2005年录制于一部肥皂剧的片场，当时特朗普前去客串一个角色。现为共和党总统候选人的特朗普，当时正在与《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)节目的主持人比利·布什(Billy Bush)坐在一辆大巴上闲聊，他显然不知道麦克风没关，两人的对话于是被录了下来。
The lewd discussion offers more insight into how Trump has spoken about women in private and adds to evidence that he has a penchant for sexist behavior.
这番下流对话，让人们更加了解特朗普在私下是如何谈论女性的，而且提供了其喜好展露性别歧视行为的进一步证据。
Trump said Friday that he was sorry if his language offended anyone.
特朗普在周五说，如果自己的言论冒犯了任何人，他表示歉意。
“This was locker room banter, a private conversation that took place many years ago. Bill Clinton has said far worse to me on the golf course — not even close,” Trump said in a statement. “I apologize if anyone was offended.”
“这是更衣室里的玩笑话，是很多年前的一段私人谈话。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在高尔夫球场上和我说过比这糟糕得多的话——根本都不接近，”特朗普在一份声明中说道。“如果有人受到冒犯，我道歉。”
During one part of the conversation, Trump discussed an incident in which his advances were rebuffed by a woman. The conversation was recorded after he was already married to Melania Trump, his third and current wife.
在谈话中，特朗普谈到自己勾引一名女子遭拒的事情。谈话发生的时候，他已经与现任妻子、第三任太太梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)结婚。
“I moved on her and I failed. I’ll admit it,” Trump says.
“我对她采取攻势，但失败了。我得承认这一点。”特朗普说。
He adds that he tried to have sex with the woman and acknowledges knowing that she was married.
他还补充说，自己曾经试图与这名女性发生性关系，而且承认知道她已婚。
It is not clear whom he was referring to, but Trump says in very graphic terms that he “moved on” the woman “very heavily,” taking her shopping for furniture as a way to spend time with her.
他提到的这名女性的身份尚不清楚，但特朗普用极其生动的语言说自己“非常猛烈地”对这名女性“展开攻势”，为了套近乎，带她去买家具。
“But I couldn’t get there. And she was married,” Trump says.
“但没能成。她结婚了。”特朗普说。
Trump has been aggressively courting Christian conservative voters while making former President Bill Clinton’s history of infidelity an issue in the campaign.
特朗普一直在拉拢保守派基督教选民，并在选举中抓住前总统比尔·克林顿的出轨史大做文章。
At one point, the conversation in the recording is interrupted when an actress arrives to escort Trump and Bush to the set.
录音资料中的谈话一度中断，一名女演员抵达，引领特朗普和布什前往拍摄位置。
“You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful — I just start kissing them,” Trump says. “It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait.”
“你知道，我总是被漂亮的女人自动吸引——就开始亲吻她们，”特朗普说道。“就像是吸铁石一般。只管去亲。我等不了。”
He goes on to explain that his celebrity had made such encounters possible.
他接着又解释说，因为自己有名，令这些邂逅成为可能。
“And when you’re a star they let you do it,” Trump says. “You can do anything.”
“只要你是个名人，她们就会让你这么做，”特朗普说。“你什么都可以做。”