Over the last several years, an exclusive group of investors has paid a steep premium to receive the results of a closely watched economic survey a full two seconds before its broader release. Those two seconds can mean millions of dollars in profits for the investors, who practice a computer-driven strategy called high-frequency trading.
在过去几年中，一小群投资者会支付巨额费用，以在一项倍受关注的经济调查面向范围较大的受众发布数据前两秒钟获知结果。这两秒钟的时间对投资者意味着数百万美元的收益，他们运用的是一种通过电脑实现的被称为高频交易(high-frequency trading)的交易策略。
On Monday, the company providing these investors with that lucrative edge, Thomson Reuters, is expected to announce that it will suspend the practice, yielding to pressure from the New York attorney general, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
据直接了解此事的人士称，向这些投资者提供这种投资便利的企业汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)，预期会迫于纽约州总检察长的压力，在周一宣布暂停这种能让投资者获得巨大利润的行为。
Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general, and his staff have been investigating the unusual arrangement that Thomson Reuters has with the University of Michigan. On two Fridays a month at 10 a.m. Eastern time, the widely cited and often market-moving economic survey known as the consumer confidence index is posted by the university on a Web site.
纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施奈德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)及其下属一直在调查汤森路透和密歇根大学(University of Michigan)之间的这项不同寻常的协议。每个月有两个星期五，在东部时间上午10点，密歇根大学会在其网站上公布一项称为“消费者信心指数”(consumer confidence index)的经济调查数据。该数据被广泛引用、且经常能左右市场。
Thomson Reuters pays the university at least $1 million a year to distribute that data early to its money management customers on an exclusive basis. The company offers clients of its news service the opportunity to pay to receive the information on a conference call at 9:55 a.m.
汤森路透每年向密歇根大学支付至少100万美元，让大学把数据独家发布给公司的基金管理客户。该公司新闻服务的客户，可以在付费后于当天早上9:55通过电话会议获得相关数据。
But an elite group of about a dozen clients, which includes some of the world’s most powerful money managers, pays Thomson Reuters an additional fee to receive it at 9:54:58 — two seconds before everyone else. Some of the clients pay the company more than $6,000 a month for this early release.
但一个有大约12个客户的高端群体，其中包括一些世界最大的基金管理公司，会向汤森路透支付额外费用，这样他们就能在9:54:58获得数据——比其他人早了两秒钟。为了提早获得数据，一些客户每个月向汤森路透支付超过6000美元。
The company packages the information for these clients in a format that allows their high-speed, computer-driven trading systems to exploit the data, making rapid-fire trades in stocks and futures before others gain access to it.
该公司会把信息打包成特定格式，使客户的高速电脑交易系统可以利用这些数据，让客户在竞争对手获得信息前，快速完成股票和期货交易。
Mr. Schneiderman’s investigation began in April after a former Thomson Reuters employee filed a whistle-blower complaint about the practice, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. The attorney general’s investor protection bureau is specifically examining the 9:54:58 disclosure and, more broadly, whether preferential disclosure of data is a fair and appropriate business practice.
据一名了解此次调查的人士称，施奈德曼的调查始于今年4月，之前一名前汤森路透员工告发了公司的这一做法。总检察长办公室投资者保护局(Investor Protection Bureau)具体调查的是9:54:58的信息发布行为，更广泛的关注点则是，调查优先发布数据是否属于公平恰当的商业行为。
A spokesman for Thomson Reuters defended the practice and said the company was fully cooperating with the attorney general’s review.
汤森路透的一名发言人对这一行为进行了辩护，并称公司在全力配合总检察长的审查。
“Thomson Reuters strongly believes that news and information companies can legally distribute nongovernmental data and exclusive news through services provided to fee-paying subscribers,” said the spokesman, Lemuel Brewster. “It is widely understood that news and information companies compete for exclusive news and differentiated content to help their customers make better-informed trading and investment decisions.”
“汤森路透坚决认为，新闻和信息企业可以通过付费服务，向客户合法地发布非政府数据和独家新闻，”发言人莱缪尔·布鲁斯特(Lemuel Brewster)说。“众所周知，新闻和信息企业通过争夺独家新闻和差异化的内容，来帮助客户做出更明智的交易和投资决定。”
Legal experts have said the tiered pricing arrangement Thomson Reuters has with its customers does not violate federal insider trading laws. As a nongovernment entity, the company can disseminate the information as it pleases, as long as it fully discloses the practice, they say.
法律专家表示，汤森路透与其客户之间的分层定价协议并不违反联邦内幕交易法律。他们表示，作为非政府机构，该公司可以按其意愿传播信息，只要公司完全公开这一行为。
But Mr. Schneiderman’s office is exploring whether the advanced look at the consumer data is a violation of the Martin Act, a state securities-fraud law that gives the attorney general broad powers to pursue either criminal or civil actions against companies. 
但施奈德曼的办公室正在调查，提前获得消费者信心数据是否违反了《马丁法案》(Martin Act)，这部州证券欺诈法让总检察长有广泛的权力，可对公司开展刑事或民事诉讼。
Regardless of the legality of the practice, it has raised questions among state officials about fairness in the financial markets. Regulators are concerned that elite investors are being provided privileged access to important data, according to a person briefed on the matter. A mission of the attorney general’s investor protection bureau, which is overseeing the investigation, is to help create a level playing field on Wall Street.
不管这一行为合法与否，它已经让州官员对金融市场的公平性产生了质疑。据了解此事的人士称，监管者担心高端投资者享有获得重要数据的特权。负责这一调查的投资者保护局承担的一项任务是，在华尔街协助创建一个公平的竞争环境。
Mr. Schneiderman’s office demanded that Thomson Reuters suspend the selective disclosure of the survey at 9:54:58 to its highest-paying customers. After Thomson Reuters resisted, the attorney general’s office threatened to seek a court order to stop it from prereleasing the data, the person briefed on the investigation said. Rather than wage a court battle, Thomson Reuters agreed to temporarily suspend the practice for the duration of the investigation.
施奈德曼的办公室要求汤森路透停止在9:54:58对付费最高的客户选择性发布数据。据了解此次调查的上述人士说，在汤森路透表示反对之后，总检察官办公室威胁将寻求法庭命令来禁止该公司提前发布数据。为了避免法庭大战，汤森路透同意在调查期间暂停这一行为。