My first job out of college, in 1983, was working for Coca-Cola. The training, which lasted a month, was the same for everyone: all day in a truck, making deliveries, mostly to rural areas. We would leave before dawn and return as the sun was setting. We delivered soft drinks to churches and whorehouses. We went to places that didn’t appear on any map, where there were no roads beyond the tracks left by trucks like ours. We went where the government didn’t go, where there were no hospitals, no schools and sometimes even no running water.
我1983年大学毕业后的第一份工作是为可口可乐(Coca-Cola)工作。培训持续了一个月，每个人都一样：整天坐着卡车送货，大部分时间是前往乡村地区。我们会在天亮前出发，太阳落山时才归来。我们向教堂和妓院运送软饮料。我们去那些地图上没有标注的地方，那里没有道路，只有卡车留下的辙印。我们前往那些政府都不涉足的地方，那里没有医院、学校，有时甚至都没有自来水。
The other vehicles we passed on the road were trucks belonging to Pepsi or manufacturers of potato chips, salted peanuts, cookies or some other form of junk food.
我们在路上遇到的其他车辆来自百事可乐(Pepsi)或薯片、咸味花生、饼干及其他垃圾食品的生产商。
Nowadays, one of the most dangerous jobs in Mexico is driving a delivery truck down what Graham Greene called “lawless roads,” where delivery men are robbed, extorted and even killed.
如今，墨西哥最危险的工作之一就是开着货车经过格雷厄姆·格林(Graham Greene)所说的“不法之路”，送货员在那里会遭到抢劫、敲诈，甚至会被杀害。
Starting with the presidency of Felipe Calderón, from 2006 to 2012, the government lost control over the war on drug cartels and failed to fulfill its part of the social contract. It has been unable to guarantee the safety of its citizens and to implement educational reforms, but it has given politicians carte blanche to earn money through illegal means and to benefit swimmingly from their tolerance of private monopolies. The government has been truly valiant, however, when it comes to assaulting its citizens with more taxes.
自利佩·卡尔德龙(Felipe Calderón)在2006年至2012年担任总统以来，政府就失去了对打击贩毒集团的行动的控制，没能履行其社会契约。政府无法保障公民的安全，无法实施教育改革，但却给予政治人士空头支票，使其可以通过非法途径牟利，通过宽容对待私人垄断而轻易获益。然而政府在对人民征收更多赋税的时候却十分之雷厉风行。
One of the most talked-about is a tax of one peso (about 8 cents) on every liter of sugary beverages, which our Congress approved on Thursday. The tax — part of a fiscal reform package that also includes an 8 percent tax on junk food — is aimed at obesity.
人们讨论最多的是国会在周四通过的税收政策——对每升含糖饮料征收一比索（约合八美分）的赋税。这项税收政策主要针对肥胖问题，是财政改革方案的一部分，改革方案还包括对垃圾食品征收8%的赋税。
By various measures, Mexico is either the world’s fattest country, or the second fattest, after the United States.
从各项标准来看，墨西哥不是世界上最肥胖的国家，就是第二肥胖的国家，仅次于美国。
We Mexicans are among the most avid consumers of soft drinks. We swig a half-liter per person every day — thanks in part to the multinational beverage companies’ distribution, advertising and pricing strategies, but also because soft drinks, while not exactly nutritious, are at least (usually) free of germs.
我们墨西哥人是软饮料最忠实的顾客。我们每人每天喝半升饮料——部分因为跨国饮料公司的配送、广告及定价策略，但也是因为软饮料虽然未必有营养，但至少（通常）没有细菌。
In Mexico it is never easy to find water that is safe for drinking, and this is true in both the city and the countryside. Summers are long and hot. And a plate of spicy food usually requires copious amounts of liquid.
在墨西哥，很难找到安全的饮用水，城市和农村都是如此。夏季漫长而炎热。吃一盘辛辣的食物通常需要喝很多液体。
That’s why soft drinks are a part of the Mexican way of life (and also why Mexicans are among the world’s top consumers of bottled water). To attack soda without offering healthy alternatives — like a safe, reliable supply of drinking water — amounts to saying, à la Marie Antoinette, “Let them drink wine.”
因此，软饮料成为了墨西哥生活的一部分（也是墨西哥成为世界最大的瓶装水消费国之一的原因）。抨击汽水，却不提供健康的替代品，按照玛丽·安托瓦妮特（Marie Antoinette)的说法，这就相当于在说，“让他们喝葡萄酒吧。”
So, sugar isn’t so good for you. But it is part of that universe in which inertia dominates reason. We all know that we should read more, but we watch TV; we should do more exercise, but we end up on the couch; we should contaminate the environment less, but we use the car to go everywhere.
糖对身体没好处。但这是惯性支配理性的世界的一部分。我们都知道我们应该多读书，但我们都在看电视；我们应该多做运动，但我们却待在沙发上；我们应该少污染环境，但我们却开车去各个地方。
Yes, we know we should disinfect water, filter and boil it, but it is easier to buy it in a bottle — maybe with some carbonation and sugar.
是的，我们知道我们应该对水进行消毒、过滤，或将它煮沸，但买瓶装水却更方便，其中或许还含有碳酸及糖分。
I’m reminded of the thirst I felt during a coast-to-coast bike trip across the desert of northern Mexico in 2006. “You’re going to die,” my fellow cyclists warned me.
这让我想起了2006年从海岸到海岸的摩托车之旅中，穿越墨西哥北部沙漠地区时的那种口渴的感觉。骑行的同伴警告我，“你离死不远了”。
Almost. There were moments when the water ran out that, at 45 degrees Celsius (113 degrees Fahrenheit), made one start to think about the great hereafter, but the here and now usually produced an oasis in the form of a little convenience store in the middle of nowhere.
差一点儿就死了。确实有这样的时刻，水都喝完了，而温度却高达45摄氏度（约合113华氏度），这使人开始思考伟大的来生，但时不时的，都会出现一个“绿洲”——偏僻地方的小便利店。
The culinary offerings were never optimal — at most, a variety of soft drinks, potato chips and cookies — but they helped keep me hydrated and nourished enough to stay on the road.
便利店的食物绝不是最理想的——最多就是一些软饮料、薯片和饼干，但它们使我有足够的水分和营养，可以继续前行。
In Cervantes’s “Don Quixote,” the hero comes across an innkeeper “who, being a very fat man, was a very peaceful one.” If this were a universal truth, Mexicans would be a very peaceful lot. When it comes to economic matters, at least, we mostly are.
在塞万提斯(Cervantes)所著《唐吉坷德》(Don Quixote)一书中，那个英雄遇到了一个“很胖，很温和的”旅店主人。如果这是一个普遍真理，那墨西哥人就是一群非常温和的人。至少在经济问题方面，我们通常都很温和。
For most Mexicans, money is something you need, not something you cherish for its own sake. That’s why the new taxes on sodas and junk food were mostly contested by the business community. The average Mexican just shrugged.
对于大多数墨西哥人来说，钱是你所需要的东西，而不是因为它本身的价值才珍爱它。这也就是为什么，对新的汽水和垃圾食品税的质疑大多来自商界人士，而普通的墨西哥人只会耸耸肩。
But while we may be peaceful people, we are also suspicious.
虽然我们可能是一群比较温和的人，但我们也很多疑。
The government stands to collect $1 billion every year from the soft-drink tax. It isn’t a huge fortune, but as we hear the hiss of a bottle being opened and we gaze down at our still broadening waistlines, we will wonder whether another politician is using our tax money to buy real estate in Florida, Texas or California.
每年，政府会通过征收软饮料税获得10亿美元（约合61亿元人民币）。这不是一笔巨额财富，但当我们听到了开瓶的声音，注意到不断加大的腰围，我们会怀疑是否有政治人士用纳税人的钱在佛罗里达、德克萨斯或加利福尼亚购买房产。
So here’s an idea: now that we’ve taxed soda, let’s tax corruption. According to the Mexican employers’ association, the cost of corruption is 9 percent of our economic output ($1.2 trillion). If you apply the standard value-added tax of 16 percent, you’ll collect $17 billion. If you think a tax on soft drinks will make us healthier, just imagine what a tax on corruption could do.
因此就有了这样一个想法：既然我们已经对汽水征税，那也对腐败征税吧。据墨西哥雇主协会透露，腐败成本占我们经济产出（1.2万亿美元）的9%。如果按增值税为16%的标准征税，那会获得170亿美元。如果你认为对软饮料征税会让我们更健康，那想想对腐败征税会有什么效果吧。