NEWPORT, R.I. — The Chinese team in the Volvo Ocean Race could not have performed worse during a trial run in September, less than a month before the actual race began.
罗德岛州纽波特——去年9月，距离沃尔沃环球帆船赛(Volvo Ocean Race)正式开赛还剩不到一个月的时间，这支中国队伍在试航中的表现简直糟糕透顶。
With France’s top ocean racers training the crew, the Dongfeng Race Team watched a $15,000 sail slide overboard and a Chinese crew member cling to a halyard as he met the same fate, the line shredding his palms, only to be rescued along with the sail.
法国最顶尖的水手在训练东风队的船员，却眼见着一张价值1.5万美元（约合9.3万元人民币）的帆和一名中国船员滑进了水里。他落水的时候紧紧抓住了升降索，导致两只手的手掌都被割伤，只能等着自己跟船帆一起被救起。
“The French guys were getting loads of grief,” said Mark Turner, one of the Chinese team’s managers, at a stopover here last week. “The other teams, everyone, thought we were irrelevant.”
“法国人伤心死了，”东风队的一名经理马克·特纳(Mark Turner)上周在这里接受采访时表示。“其他船队，其他个人，都觉得我们是来当看客的。”
But Dongfeng, whose crew includes members who had never slept on a sailboat or spoken English before February 2014, arrived in Newport on Thursday as the victor of the race’s sixth leg, which started in Itajaí, Brazil, on April 19. It was the second leg the team has won in the nine-leg race around the world, which covers 11 ports and about 39,000 nautical miles.
这支船队中的一些成员，在2014年2月前从未在帆船上过夜，或是根本不会讲英语。不过上周四，东风队第一个抵达美国纽波特，成为4月19日在巴西伊塔加起航的第六赛段的冠军。这项赛事共有九个赛段，造访全球11个港口，航行约3.9万海里的距离。这是东风队第二次在单赛段中拔得头筹。
Dongfeng is now alone in second place over all, with 17 points, 6 behind Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing, which finished second in the sixth leg, 3 minutes 25 seconds behind. Dongfeng has managed this despite a broken mast in the previous leg from Auckland, New Zealand, to Itajaí that added the maximum number of penalty points to its score. When the crew members won the third leg sailing into their home port in Sanya, China, they knew they were onto something.
东风队目前总排名第二，积17分，比领先的阿布扎比队(Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing)落后6分。后者在第六赛段中位居次席，比头名慢了3分25秒。东风队取得这样的总成绩前，在上一赛段经受了许多挫折——在从新西兰奥克兰驶向伊塔加的途中，东风队桅杆断裂，吃了最多的罚分。当他们的船员赢得了以其母港三亚为终点的第三赛段时，他们明白了自己能行。
“The win in China legitimized what we were doing for our sponsors,” said Turner, who admitted that he had not initially had high expectations for the team. “The Chinese, culturally, want to win. But they also wanted Chinese sailors aboard. That was at odds with setting up a winning program.”
“我们在中国的胜利，替我们在赞助商面前正了名，”特纳说。他承认，自己一开始东风队没有抱上多大的期望。“中国人文化上渴求胜利，但他们也想要船上有中国水手，而这一点跟组建一支强队有冲突。”
Turner said it was in the team’s contract to have three Chinese sailors as part of the eight-person crew for each leg. In October, when the Chinese arrived for the start in Alicante, Spain, the skipper, Charles Caudrelier, refused to take them on.
特纳说，船队的合约规定，每个赛段的八名船员中必须有三名中国人。10月，当中国人来到西班牙阿利坎特准备开始比赛时，船长夏尔·戈德赫里埃(Charles Caudrelier)拒绝让他们加入。
“He said it was just plain unsafe,” Turner said. “These boats are sailed with around three people on deck at any one time. There would have been scenarios where two of the crew had to be Chinese and very inexperienced, and Charles couldn’t handle that.”
“他说这样太不安全了，”特纳说。“每一次，这些船航行的时候，都有大约三人在甲板上。可能会出现有两名船员必须是中国人，而且非常缺乏经验的情况，而夏尔将无法应对。”
From the beginning, Turner said, throwing inexperienced men into such a demanding and, at times, harrowing race was a “big ask” of Caudrelier, 41, a Frenchman who was part of the Groupama sailing team that won this race in 2011-12.
特纳说，刚开始，让缺乏经验的人来参加这种很考验人，而且时常有危险的比赛，这对41岁的戈德赫里埃“要求太高了”。这个法国人曾是安盟保险队(Groupama)的一员，该队曾在2011-12赛季的沃尔沃比赛中获胜。
Liu Xue, known as Black, and three other sailors have been rotating into the two Chinese spots aboard Dongfeng.
被称作“小黑”的刘学和其他三名水手，作为中国选手轮流上船参加东风队的比赛。
“Our first long training, it was cold, I couldn’t eat my meal, the boat was awful, the food was awful,” Liu said Friday. “After this, I said I don’t want to touch a boat anymore. Never.”
“我们的第一次长期培训，很冷，我连饭也没法吃，船很糟糕，食物也很糟糕，”刘学周五表示。“从那以后，我说我再也不想碰船了，再也不想了。”
Liu left the team with a mix of emotions. But after a month away, he started missing life on board the boat, and he did not want to let down his crewmates.
刘学带着复杂的情绪离开了船队。但是过了一个月，他又开始想念船上的生活，而且他也不想让队友失望。
“I knew I should hold on to this big chance,” he said.
他说，“我知道自己应该抓住这次重要机会。”
Turner said that the fledgling ocean racers were at least “three Volvos” away from even serving as a watch captain, the third-most senior position on a boat, but he added that their improvement had been inspiring.
特纳表示，这些海洋比赛的新手，连想当上值班船长——船上第三重要的岗位——都至少需要“参加三次沃尔沃”。但他还表示，他们的进步令人振奋。
One French crew member, Kevin Escoffier, had been doing double shifts for sail changes during the first two legs, Turner said.
特纳说，其中的法国船员凯文·埃斯科菲耶(Kevin Escoffier)在最初的两个赛段中，换人时一直在承担两个班次。
“Over time, the Chinese crew have compensated,” he said. “Everyone’s focus has been to transfer as much knowledge as possible. Now we are getting good results despite a clear handicap.”
“渐渐地，中国船员作出了弥补，”他说。“每个人关注的都是尽可能多地传递知识。虽然有明显的困难，但我们现在还是取得了很好的效果。”
Even those improvements do not explain why Dongfeng has consistently been the fastest team through often temperamental weather. One advantage, according to some experts, has been the jack-of-all-trades approach in French solo sailing culture, such as in La Solitaire du Figaro race and multihull oceanic record sailing.
但是，就连这些改进也无法解释东风队为何能够接连在往往复杂多变的天气中处于领先位置。一些专家表示，其中一个优势是法国单人帆船赛文化，全能型选手的策略，例如在费加罗报杯单人帆船赛(La Solitaire du Figaro)和连体船大洋纪录挑战赛中那样。
“It doesn’t surprise me one bit that this team is winning legs,” said Ryan Breymaier, widely considered America’s top short-handed sailor, who has trained with the French. “There are no egos with these French sailors. They’ve all sailed in the Figaro, alone in identical boats. That’s what makes this team a success.”
“这支队伍能在一些赛段取胜，我一点都不吃惊，”被广泛视为美国顶级单人赛水手的瑞安·布赖迈尔(Ryan Breymaier)说。他曾与那些法国水手一同训练过。“这些法国水手没那么高傲，他们都单独在同样的船里参加过费加罗赛。这就是这支队伍取胜的原因。”
He added, referring to the boats used in the Volvo Ocean Race, “All of them are capable of sailing a VOR 65 around the world with just two guys.”
他还说，“他们所有人都能在只有两个人的情况下，驾驶一艘VOR 65环游世界。”VOR即沃尔沃环球帆船赛中的船只。
Breymaier said that some non-French sailors approached ocean sailing with professional specialists in trimming, helming and other crew positions. He sees that approach in some of the other Volvo teams.
布赖迈尔说，一些非法国籍的水手，要与缭手、舵手和船上其他岗位的专职船员一同航行。他看到沃尔沃赛里的其他一些船队就在使用这种的策略。
Sam Davies, skipper aboard Team SCA, which has an all-female crew, is one of the few graduates of the Figaro in this edition of the Volvo. Breymaier said that the recent move to “one-design,” or identical VOR 65s, played perfectly into the skills of the French sailors, who are capable on the bow, up the mast or behind the helm.
全女子船队爱生雅队(Team SCA)的船长山姆·戴维斯(Sam Davies)是本届沃尔沃帆船赛中为数不多的完成过费加罗赛的人之一。布赖迈尔称，近期“统一设计”，即使用同样的VOR 65帆船的做法，非常有利于参加过法国比赛的水手发挥自己的技能，他们无论在船头、桅杆前，还是掌舵时都能娴熟应对。
“In a one-design boat, if you’re slow, it’s your fault,” said Escoffier, who pointed out that previous editions of the Volvo had used development classes in which each boat was different. “Before, it was easy to say that our boat is not as good as another’s. Part of the reason we are fast in this Volvo is that we are always searching to find that 0.05-knot advantage. Knowing that there has to be a solution. That is part of the French Figaro culture.”
“在统一设计的船上，如果慢了，就是你的错，”埃斯科菲耶说。他指出，沃尔沃帆船赛使用的是开放式设计，其中使用的每艘赛船都不一样。“以前说我们的船没有别人的好是很容易的，我们在这次沃尔沃比赛中比较快的一部分原因就是，我们总想找到那个0.05节的优势。知道总有解决办法。这就是法国费加罗塞文化的一部分。”
Turner said that even though there were sailors in the fleet who were new to the Volvo, most of the teams were loaded with top professional ocean racers. The Chinese sailors’ contributions, he said, were subtle but becoming a strength.
特纳说，尽管船队中有从未参加过沃尔沃赛的水手，但大多数队伍都有最拔尖的专业赛手。他说，中国水手的贡献不甚明显，不过正在展现出力量。
“They cannot let anyone down. Even between each other,” Turner said. “They are competitive, but there’s a feeling of succeeding for their crew members ashore.”
“他们不能让任何人失望，甚至不能让彼此失望，”特纳说。“他们求胜心切，但有一种为岸上的队友赢得胜利的感觉。”
Escoffier said he was inspired by the spirit of Liu and the other Chinese sailors.
埃斯科菲耶说，刘学和其他中国水手的精神给他带来了鼓舞。
“Sometimes they say, ‘Tomorrow will be better,’ ” said Escoffier, who holds several transoceanic sailing records but is sailing in his first Volvo. “It’s quite close to a Zen culture. There’s no reason tomorrow will be worse than today. That view helps us all.”
“他们有时会说，‘明天会更好’，”埃斯科菲耶保持着好几个跨洋航行的纪录，但这是他第一次参加沃尔沃帆船赛。“这与禅文化非常接近。明天没理由会比今天更糟。这种观点对我们所有人都有帮助。”
The inexperienced Chinese crew members also appear willing to trust the more experienced French crew members and to do what is necessary so the team performs well.
缺乏经验的中国船员似乎也愿意信任经验更丰富的法国船员，愿意让他们做出必要的行动，好让团队取得更好的成绩。
The seventh leg of the Volvo, set to start Saturday on a route from Newport to Lisbon, 2,800 nautical miles, is the last leg for Dongfeng to showcase the team’s improving long-distance performance before the final two legs, which are much shorter.
此次沃尔沃帆船赛第七赛段的比赛将于周六开始，比赛路线是从纽波特到里斯本，共计2800海里。这是东风队展示自己长距离航行的表现得到了提升的最后一个赛段，接下来还有两个赛段，但这两个赛段的航程都要短很多。
Asked whether he believed there was an advantage to the combination of French and Chinese sailors, Escoffier was not definitive.
当被问到是否认为让法国和中国水手共同参赛会产生优势时，埃斯科菲耶没有给出明确答复。