MUMBAI — Wal-Mart Stores gave up on India’s huge market on Wednesday, announcing that it had indefinitely delayed its once-ambitious plans to open hundreds of superstores across the country.
孟买——本周三，沃尔玛超市(Wal-Mart Stores)放弃了巨大的印度市场，宣布公司将无限期延后在印度各地开办数百家超市的宏伟计划，公司对这个计划一度寄以厚望。
The announcement adds to the gloom enrobing the Indian economy. Growth has slowed sharply and the value of the rupee has fallen starkly in recent months. It also suggests that the government’s efforts to lure more foreign investment are failing, but the governing United Progressive Alliance’s plan has never been popular with India’s politically vocal retailers.
此次声明加重了笼罩印度经济的黯淡气氛。最近几个月，印度的经济增长已经大幅放缓，卢比的币值急剧下跌。同时也表明印度政府吸引更多外资的努力正在走向失败，不过，执政的团结进步联盟(United Progressive Alliance)的规划，还从未讨过在政治上直言不讳的印度零售商的欢心。
Wal-Mart, the Bentonville, Ark., company that is the world’s largest retailer, also announced that it was ending its joint effort with Bharti Enterprises of India to operate 20 wholesale “cash and carry” stores that sell to other businesses like retailers, hotels and restaurants. Wal-Mart plans to buy Bharti’s 50 percent stake in the venture, and the two companies will operate independent businesses in India. That Wal-Mart kept the wholesale business, long seen as a way to learn about India’s fragmented retailing sector, suggests it has not entirely ended its hopes of eventually selling at a retail level.
位于阿肯色州本顿维尔的沃尔玛公司是全球规模最大的零售商，该公司还宣布正在中止和印度巴蒂集团(Bharti Enterprises)的合作，双方原计划开办20家“现购自运”批发商店，向零售商、酒店和餐馆等其他行业批发货品。沃尔玛计划买下巴蒂持有的50%股份，两家公司在印度的业务将彼此独立运营。沃尔玛保留了批发业务，一直以来这被视作是它了解碎片化的印度零售业的一种方式，说明沃尔玛还没有彻底放弃最终在零售层面展开销售的希望。
In 2007, Wal-Mart announced with great fanfare that along with Bharti, it planned to open “hundreds” of stores, the kind of ambitious proposition that many international companies hatched early in the century as hopes blossomed that India would soon join China as an emerging economic colossus. But many of those same companies have quietly shelved their expansion plans after complex market conditions — spotty electricity, poor roads and government ineptitude — frustrated hopes of rapid profits.
2007年，沃尔玛大张旗鼓地宣布计划和巴蒂集团携手，开办“数百家”超市，许多跨国公司在本世纪初都怀揣着这种雄心万丈的计划，原因是它们满怀希望地认为，印度会迅速加入中国的阵营，成为一个新兴的经济巨人。然而，同类公司中有许多家已经悄无声息地搁置了自己的扩张计划，这是由于它们遭遇了复杂的市场状况——包括时断时续的供电、糟糕的道路和政府的无能——凡此种种让它们迅速盈利的希望落了空。
Wal-Mart’s chief executive for Asia, Scott Price, said this week that the Indian government’s regulations requiring foreign retailers to buy 30 percent of products from local small and midsize businesses were the “critical stumbling block” to opening its trademark consumer stores.
沃尔玛亚洲首席执行官贝思哲(Scott Price)于本周表示，根据印度政府的要求，外国零售商必须从本地的中小型企业购买30%的产品，这种规定对该公司开办使用沃尔玛商标的零售门店构成了“严重阻碍”。
“I don’t understand how this 30 percent small and medium enterprise can be executed,” Mr. Price said in an interview on Monday at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Bali, Indonesia, The Associated Press reported.
据美联社(Associated Press)报道，本周一，贝思哲在印度尼西亚巴厘岛举行的亚太经济合作论坛上(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum)接受采访时说，“我搞不懂，怎样才能落实从中小型企业购买30%产品的规定。”
He said that Indian retailers were not required to follow the same rule, which made it too difficult for outsiders to make money, because no enterprise small enough to meet the government’s requirements had the capability to produce on the scale that a giant retailer requires.
他说，印度的零售商没被要求遵循相同的规定，这让外来者实在难以赚到钱，这是因为，没有哪家规模小到符合政府要求的企业有能力实现一家零售业巨头提出的规模化生产要求。
“For Wal-Mart, there has been frustration brewing for a long time about the obstacles to doing business in India and the changing configurations of what it could do and what it couldn’t do,” said Devangshu Dutta, chief executive of Third Eyesight, a retail consulting firm based in Bangalore. “To just continue to pump in money without reflecting on this would be pointless.”
位于班加罗尔的零售咨询公司Third Eyesight的首席执行官德旺舒·杜塔(Devangshu Dutta)说，“从沃尔玛的角度说，受挫情绪已经酝酿了相当长的时间，在印度遭遇的经营障碍，以及朝令夕改的企业行为规范，令公司感到失望。这一点不想清楚就直接往里扔钱是毫无意义的。”
American executives and politicians have been expressing growing impatience with India’s fitful efforts to open and modernize its economy. The government sought to address some of this frustration with a series of overhauls over the last year that ministers hoped would lead major international retailers to invest substantial sums in improving the country’s retail infrastructure, which is predominately mom-and-pop shops. So far, no company has.
对于印度断断续续的经济开放及现代化举措，美国的高管和政治人士已经越来越不耐烦。去年，印度政府试图通过一系列改革来解决一些令人不满的问题，部长们希望这些改革能够促使主要的国际零售商持续投入资金，改善印度的零售业基础设施，目前这个领域绝大多数是小型的夫妻店。迄今为止还没有哪个公司出手。
Only 4 percent of India’s $500 billion retail market is controlled by large, Western-style chain stores. In China, the share is about 20 percent and in Brazil 36 percent. India’s tiny operators have few of the inventory controls of their larger brethren, and much of the country’s food spoils before reaching consumers — an unfortunate reality in a nation in which nearly half of all children are malnourished.
印度零售市场规模达5000亿美元（约合3.06万亿元人民币），其中西方大型连锁商店只占4%。此类商店在中国所占份额大约为20%，在巴西的份额为36%。印度的小型零售商没有大型零售商那样的库存管理能力，很多食物在出售给消费者之前已经变质——对于印度来说，这是一个不幸的现实，印度有将近一半的儿童营养不良。
With national elections scheduled for next year, there is little hope that any new policy changes will be put in place any time soon. Looser rules enacted last September led an important regional political party to withdraw from the governing coalition, briefly threatening the coalition’s viability. India’s main opposition party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, has opposed efforts to loosen foreign investment rules. Critics say that Wal-Mart would put thousands of small retailers out of business, increasing unemployment.
由于印度将于明年举行全国大选，短时间内实施新政策的希望不大。印度于去年9月颁布了一个较为宽松的规定，致使一个重要的地区性政党退出执政联盟，曾一度令联盟面临生死攸关的局面。印度的主要反对党印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)反对放宽对外国投资的管制。批评人士表示，沃尔玛会致使数以千计的小型零售商破产，失业率上升。
“I don’t see any big foreign retailers entering the market at least for the next nine months, until after the general elections, when we know what the direction will be of the policy,” said Saloni Nangia, president of Technopak, a management consulting firm based in Gurgaon. “It is a wait and watch for many international retailers who want to be in India eventually.”
“我觉得至少在未来九个月里，不会有外国大型零售商进入印度市场，大选结束后，我们才能知道政策走向，” 总部位于古尔冈的管理咨询公司Technopak董事长萨洛尼·南吉亚(Saloni Nangia)说。“对于很多想要最终进入印度市场的国际零售商来说，现在是观望期。”
Wal-Mart’s problems in India extend well beyond the government’s procurement rules. The Indian authorities are investigating whether Wal-Mart violated foreign investment rules by giving Bharti Retail an interest-free loan of $100 million that could later be converted into a controlling stake in the company. Both companies deny wrongdoing.
沃尔玛在印度遇到的问题不仅涉及政府的采购规定。印度当局正在调查沃尔玛是否违反了外国投资规定，给予巴蒂零售(Bharti Retail)1亿美元的无息贷款，这种债权之后可以转化为对该公司的控股权。两家公司对这种违规行为都予以否认。
Last November, the joint venture between Wal-Mart and Bharti suspended several senior executives and delayed some store openings as part of an internal bribery investigation, one of a series of bribery inquiries that have shaken Wal-Mart’s international operations. In June, the joint venture replaced its chief executive.
去年11月，沃尔玛和巴蒂组建的合资公司接受了内部贿赂调查，几名高管被停职，一些商店延期开业。一系列贿赂调查对沃尔玛的国际业务产生不利影响，此次调查只是其中之一。今年6月，该合资公司更换了首席执行官。
Girish Kuber, a former political editor of the Indian newspaper The Economic Times, called the dissolution of the Wal-Mart and Bharti partnership “inevitable.”
前印度《经济时报》(The Economic Times)政治编辑吉里什·库伯(Girish Kuber)称，沃尔玛与巴蒂合作关系的解除是“不可避免的”。
“It is a sad story,” he said. “The reforms are going nowhere, and there is no investment coming in.”
“这是一个悲剧，”他说。“改革毫无进展，没有资金进入印度。”
Many foreign companies have found India’s endemic corruption difficult to keep out of their operations. Since American law requires top executives to ensure that their international operations remain free of corruption, executives in the United States have taken an increasingly dim view of doing business in India, with its low profits and constant legal worries.
很多外国公司发现，在印度开展业务很难不受其腐败之风的影响。由于美国法律要求高管们确保其企业在国际业务中不能有腐败行为，再加上低利润及不断遭遇的法律问题，美国高管们对在印度开展业务持越来越悲观的态度。