STOCKHOLM — Volvo on Tuesday introduced its first vehicle designed and built under Chinese ownership. But the influence, if any, of the new owners from Hangzhou has been carefully hidden by many layers of Swedish aesthetic.
斯德哥尔摩——本周二，沃尔沃(Volvo)推出了它被中资收购后设计制造的首款汽车。但是，中国杭州的新老板即便对这款汽车产生了一些影响，也被精心隐藏在了瑞典美学的层层表象之下。
The vehicle, a seven-seat sport utility vehicle known as the XC90 that will go on sale in April, is probably a make-or-break model for Volvo. It must succeed for the company to regain stature in America, where a few decades ago — before the advent of S.U.V.s — the Volvo station wagon was a suburban status symbol.
这款7座的运动型多功能汽车(SUV)名为XC90，将于明年4月上市销售，对于沃尔沃来说，这可能是一款关乎成败的车型。几十年前，在SUV出现之前，沃尔沃旅行车曾是郊区身份的一个象征；该公司若想在美国重振往日声威，XC90就必须成功。
It will be sold in Europe and Asia, too, but Volvo expects the United States to account for at least a third of sales. The carmaker wants to replace BMW, Mercedes and Audi S.U.V.s in the driveways of the well-to-do.
尽管XC90也会在欧洲和亚洲发售，但是沃尔沃期望它在美国的销量占到总销量的至少三分之一。该公司想让它去取代宝马、奔驰和奥迪SUV在美国中产家庭的位置。
Since Zhejiang Geely Holding bought the company from Ford Motor in 2010, China has become Volvo Cars’ largest market. But that is partly because sales in other markets have been poor. Sales in the United States fell 10 percent during the same period, and Volvo’s American market share has shrunk to a nearly irrelevant 0.35 percent.
浙江吉利控股集团于2010年从福特汽车(Ford Motor)手中收购了沃尔沃汽车公司(Volvo Cars)，自那之后，中国已经成为这家公司最大的市场。但是，这部分是由于它在其他市场的销售状况不佳。同一时期，沃尔沃在美国的销量下滑了10%，它在美国的市场份额已经萎缩到几乎无足轻重的0.35个百分点。
Still, the car company, separate from the Volvo Group, a truck maker, has returned to profit after losses in late 2012 and early 2013, and sales rose 10 percent in the first half of this year, to 229,000 cars.
尽管如此，在今年上半年，这家汽车公司已扭亏为盈，销量增长了10%，达到22.9万辆。该公司独立于卡车制造商沃尔沃集团(Volvo Group)，在2012年底和2013年初曾出现亏损。
To achieve its goal of doubling global sales to 800,000 vehicles a year, Volvo is promoting its traditional emphasis on passenger safety while pumping up the elegance, albeit in a restrained Swedish way. Along with a shock-absorbing seat meant to protect a passenger’s spine in a crash, and automatic braking to avoid collisions with people or other cars, the XC90 has a shift lever inlaid with Swedish-made glass crystal.
为了实现全球销量翻番至每年80万辆的目标，沃尔沃一边推动其重视乘客安全的传统，一边展现其瑞典式的内敛优雅。XC90的减震座椅可以在事故中保护乘客脊椎，自动刹车装置可以避免车辆与行人或其他车辆碰撞，变速杆上还镶嵌着瑞典制造的玻璃水晶。
Volvo said its goal was to ensure that, by 2020, no one would be killed or seriously injured in a Volvo car.
沃尔沃表示，其目标是确保到2020年，沃尔沃汽车的驾乘者不会在车祸中丧生或受重伤。
Volvo is also putting more emphasis on fuel economy and emissions than in the past, addressing anxiety among some buyers that a big S.U.V. makes them look insensitive to climate change. The top-of-the-line model will be a plug-in hybrid capable of traveling about 25 miles solely on battery power.
一些人担心，购买大型SUV会让自己显得对气候变化无动于衷，为了打消购车者的这种顾虑，沃尔沃也变得比以往更加重视燃油经济性和排放。它的旗舰车型将是一款插电式混合动力车，可以在完全由电池供电的情况下行驶25英里。
Yet, according to Volvo, the combination of a gasoline engine in front and electric motor in the rear will deliver a hefty 400 horsepower and allow the hybrid XC90 to accelerate to 62 miles an hour in 6.4 seconds.
但是根据沃尔沃的说法，汽油发动机在前、电动马达在后的组合，仍然可以为车辆提供400马力的强大动力，让XC90的混合动力版本用6.4秒即可加速到时速62英里。
It has an interior designed to evoke an elegant Swedish living room and an optional sound system that supposedly replicates the acoustics of the concert hall in Gothenburg, the hometown of Volvo Cars.
XC90的内饰让人想起一间优雅的瑞典客厅，选配的音响系统据说是模仿了哥德堡音乐厅的声学效果；哥德堡是沃尔沃汽车公司的故乡。
“We think it’s absolutely necessary to come back to that territory,” Hakan Samuelsson, the chief executive of Volvo Cars, told reporters in Stockholm on Tuesday. “With this car, we will take a big step.”
“我们认为，绝对有必要回归瑞典特色，”沃尔沃汽车公司首席执行官哈坎·萨缪尔森(Hakan Samuelsson)本周二在斯德哥尔摩告诉记者。“通过这款汽车，我们将迈出一大步。”
Volvo has not yet named a price for the top-tier model, but said a reasonably well-equipped conventionally powered version with all-wheel drive would sell for less than $50,000 in the United States. That is more than the starting price of $39,000 for an Audi Q5 but less than a BMW X5, which starts at $55,000.
沃尔沃还没有给这款高端车型定价，但表示，采用四轮驱动系统、配置较好的常规动力版，在美国的售价将低于5万美元（约合人民币30万元）。这高于奥迪Q5的起价3.9万美元，但低于宝马X5的起价5.5万美元。
Volvo is to begin taking online orders on Sept. 3 for a conventionally powered special edition of the XC90 for $65,900.
从9月3日开始，你可以在网上订购XC90的常规动力特别版，价格为6.59万美元。
The XC90 is the first model built on a platform, or collection of common components, which Volvo calls scalable product architecture. The same chassis, seats, wheels and steering assembly can be used in sedans and stations wagons, and Volvo promises the process will lead to a complete renewal of its product line within four years.
XC90是在一个平台上、或者说一系列通用组件上构建的首款车型，沃尔沃称这个平台为可扩展产品架构。同样的底盘、座椅、轮毂和转向组件也可以用于轿车和旅行车。沃尔沃承诺，该进程可以在四年内实现其产品线的全部更新。
The platform also allows different models to be manufactured on the same assembly line, which saves costs and would bring Volvo more in line with German standards of automaking efficiency.
基于该平台，不同的车型可以使用同一条装配线组装，既节省了成本，也让沃尔沃更加符合德国汽车制造的效率标准。
At least initially, the XC90 will be made solely in Sweden. But other Volvo models are already being produced in China and Mr. Samuelsson said on Tuesday that some Chinese-made vehicles, like the S60 sedan, could be exported to the United States as soon as next year. Whether American consumers will buy a Chinese-made car is a largely untested prospect.
至少在最初阶段，XC90将完全在瑞典生产。但其他沃尔沃车型已经开始在中国生产。萨缪尔森本周二表示，中国制造的一些车型，比如S60轿车，最早可以于明年出口到美国。至于美国消费者是否会购买中国制造的汽车，这种可能性在很大程度上还没有经过检验。
But, judging from the introduction of the XC90 at a waterside venue outside Stockholm on Tuesday, marketing for the new model will play up the Swedish connection.
但是，从本周二在斯德哥尔摩郊外海边召开的XC90发布会来看，这款新车型在开展市场营销时，将强调它的瑞典血统。
“We are emphasizing our determination to build the future of our brand on our Swedish heritage,” Mr. Samuelsson said at the event, standing in front of a large screen projected with images including that of a pebbly Baltic beach.
“我们着重强调，我们决心在瑞典血统的基础上塑造这个品牌的未来，”萨缪尔森在发布会上说，在他身后的一个大屏幕上，显示了波罗的海海滩卵石等影像。
Dennis Nobelius, a Volvo Cars vice president, said that the design team in Sweden was given a free hand and there was no micromanaging by the Chinese owners.
沃尔沃汽车公司副总裁丹尼斯·诺贝利叶斯(Dennis Nobelius)说，位于瑞典的设计团队全权负责相关工作，中国老板没有插手。