It could just as easily have been a rock.
它看上去完全像是一块石头。
Instead, what the crew of the submersible Pisces V found on the sea floor off Hawaii in August was a huge Japanese submarine that the United States sent to the bottom of the ocean in 1946, lest it become a Cold War trophy for the Soviet Union.
然而双鱼五号(Pisces V)潜水器8月在夏威夷附近的海床上发现的，却是一艘巨大的日本潜艇。1946年美国将其沉到海底，以免它成为苏联的冷战战利品。
The submarine, the I-400, was one of five that met a similar fate; some of the others have already been discovered. But Terry Kerby, the longtime operations director and chief submarine pilot for the Hawaii Undersea Research Laboratory, or HURL, called this one “the real prize.”
遭遇类似命运的潜艇共有五艘，这艘伊四〇〇(I-400)级潜艇就是其中之一；其它的有几艘也已经被发现。但在夏威夷海下研究实验室（Hawaii Undersea Research Laboratory，简称HURL）任运营总监和首席潜航员多年的特里·克尔比(Terry Kerby)称这一次是“中了大奖”。
Besides being the first of its class, it has particular historic value. “This one actually trained for a mission: Attack the Panama Canal,” Mr. Kerby said.
除了是这一级别的首艘潜艇，它还有着不一般的历史价值。“这一艘所接受的训练，其实是专门针对一项任务的：攻击巴拿马运河，”克尔比说。
The megasub was remarkable for its size alone: 400 feet, nearly twice as long as a standard German U-boat of the time. More important, it could serve as an underwater aircraft carrier, carrying up to three folding-wing M6A1 Seiran bombers.
这艘巨艇单是体积就已经引人注目：400英尺（约合122米）长，比当时的标准德国潜艇长出将近一倍。更重要的是，它可以起到水下航空母舰的作用，能搭载三架折翼M6A1晴岚攻击机。
“At the time this thing was sunk, it and its sister ship were the most advanced submarines in the world,” said James P. Delgado, director of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s maritime heritage program and one of two marine archaeologists aboard the Pisces V when it came upon the I-400 wreck, 2,300 feet down. Word of the Aug. 1 discovery, which was announced Monday in a University of Hawaii news release, was withheld until the State Department and Japanese government could be informed.
“在它沉没的时候，它和它的姊妹艇是世界上最先进的潜艇，”美国海洋和大气管理局(National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)海洋遗产项目主任詹姆斯·P·德尔加多(James P. Delgado)说，在水下2300英尺处找到伊四〇〇残骸时，双鱼五号上有两名海洋考古学家，德尔加多就是其中之一。这个8月1日的发现一直未予公布，直到知会美国国务院和日本政府后，才于本周一以一则夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)新闻稿的形式公之于众。
The five submarines captured by the Navy, among the last remnants of the Imperial Japanese fleet, were taken back to Pearl Harbor for inspection. But under the treaty that ended the war in the Pacific, any military technology acquired from Japan was to be made available to other Allied powers, including the Soviet Union.
美国海军俘获的五艘潜艇属于日军舰队最后残余的部队，当时被转往珍珠港进行检查。但根据太平洋地区的停战协议，任何从日本那里取得的军事技术必须分享给同盟国其他国家，包括苏联。
Sensing that United States-Soviet relations were already tense, however, the Navy decided to scuttle the vessels off the coast of Oahu rather than offer a rival access to such advanced technology.
然而海军感到美苏关系已经处于紧张态势，因此决定在欧胡岛附近将艇凿沉，而不是把这些先进技术拱手交给对手。
“More time could have been spent documenting them, but there was a Cold War beginning,” Dr. Delgado said. “It was important to get those subs on the bottom and keep them out of the hands of the Soviets.”
“本来研究记录的工作还需要再进行一段时间的，但冷战就要开始了，”德尔加多说。“把那些潜艇沉到海底，不能落到苏联人手里，是很有必要的。”
The government’s official line, that the five subs had been used for target practice and that the precise locations of the wrecks were unknown, has been corroborated by since-declassified Navy documents, Dr. Delgado said.
德尔加多说，政府的正式说辞是五艘潜艇已经被用作射击训练的靶子，残骸的精确位置已不可知，这在后来解密的海军档案中得到了证实。
“The position that was given was miles away,” he said. “They were more interested in just sinking it and getting it out of the way.”
“档案给出的位置在几英里开外的地方，”他说。“他们的想法是干脆把艇沉了，别碍事就行。”
Federal funding cuts have driven HURL’s submarine pilots to capitalize on every moment underwater, including commercial research excursions paid for by other organizations. For years while conducting these science dives — HURL’s bread and butter, for the most part — Mr. Kerby has discreetly made note of points of interest on the ocean floor to revisit whenever the opportunity might arise.
由于联邦削减拨款，HURL的潜航员必须把每次下潜机会充分利用起来，包括有其他机构出资的商业研究任务。这些科研下潜是HURL的经济来源，但多年来在进行这些活动的同时，克尔比一直在悄悄记录海床上一些兴趣点，一旦有机会可以再次前往。
“In his back pocket, Terry always has a list of things: a sonar contact, something of that sort that might turn out to be an interesting find,” Dr. Delgado said. “He wanted to find the I-400.”
“特里在身后的口袋一直揣着一张单子：一份声呐通讯录，记录那些可能会有一些有趣发现的地方，”德尔加多说。“他想要找到那艘伊四〇〇。”
Often the sea-floor irregularities that catch Mr. Kerby’s interest turn out to be nothing more than rocks, carbon formations or debris. On the morning of Aug. 1, however, one of his hunches was validated.
克尔比注意到的海床异常后来证明大多只是些石头、碳层或岩屑。然而在8月1日的上午，他的直觉中有一个得到了应验。
“There was an anomaly up to the north that was very possibly a wreck,” he said, but it was a long way from where they thought the I-400 was actually sunk. “So when we came up and this giant bow came out of the dark, this submarine, it was a surprise to find it where we did. But it was a thrill.”
“在北边有一处反常的地方，很有可能是沉船，”他说，但是那里离他们判断的伊四〇〇所在地相去甚远。“然后我们就过去了，巨大的弓形在黑暗中显现出来，没想到会在那个地方发现这艘潜艇。但这是个令人兴奋的发现。”
The three men aboard the Pisces V were guardedly optimistic about their find.
双鱼五号上的三人对他们的发现保持着谨慎的乐观。
“As we approached it from the sonar the excitement built, and suddenly there you were, at the mangled bow of a submarine,” Dr. Delgado said. “But it wasn’t readily apparent that we were on I-400 until we really started to go through it piece by piece and match things up.
“随着声呐的靠近，我们的心情也越来越激动，然后突然之间，被压垮的巨型潜艇的弓形出现在你眼前，”德尔加多说。“但我们当时还不能马上确定那是伊四〇〇，直到后来一点点的验证，全都对应上了。”
“It wasn’t an immediate high-five,” he said.
“不是当场就击掌相庆的，”他说。
As for what awaits the I-400, its present resting place will probably be permanent. There are no plans to bring any of the wreckage to the surface.
至于后续的处置问题，这艘伊四〇〇可能将永远待在现在的地方。目前还没有将残骸打捞上来的计划。
“In cases like this, when you find historic shipwrecks, what you’ve done is not just something archaeological,” Dr. Delgado said. “You have added into the catalog of the world’s greatest museum: the bottom of the seas.”
“像这样的情况，当你发现历史沉船的时候，你实际上已经不只是在考古了，”德尔加多说。“你把它加进了海底这个举世最大的博物馆的展览图录里。”