MIAMI — The Spanish galleon San José was overloaded with 200 passengers and 700 tons of cargo on a summer night in 1631 when it smashed into a rock off the Pacific coast of Panama, spilling silver coins and bars into the Gulf of Panama. More than 400,000 coins and at least 1,417 bars were lost over a 40-mile trail.
迈阿密——1631年的一个夏夜，超载的西班牙大帆船“圣何塞号”(San José)撞上了巴拿马太平洋岸附近的一块礁石。船上载有200名乘客和700吨货物。撞船后，银币和银条纷纷散落到巴拿马湾中。在一条40英里（约64千米）的航道上，遗落了40多万枚银币和至少1417根银条。
Four hundred years later, that shipwreck has become one of the latest to land in a legal quagmire over who should have the rights to historic artifacts trapped under the sea. This one involves the United Nations, the United States Department of Homeland Security, the government of Panama and Americans accused of being pirates. At issue is whether private companies should be able to claim and profit from historic treasures.
四百年之后，与其他一些沉船一样，这艘失事船只最近也陷入了法律困境：到底谁有权拥有这些深陷海底的历史文物？这场纠纷牵涉到联合国、美国国土安全部、巴拿马政府以及一些被指控为海盗的美国人。有争议的是，私人公司能否占有历史宝藏并从中获利。
Those questions are of particular interest to businesses in South Florida at a time when technology is making it easier to find and recover sunken loot. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration estimates that there are over 1,000 shipwrecks in the Florida Keys alone.
由于技术的进步，发现和重获沉没财物变得比以前容易，这些问题尤其关系到了南佛罗里达一些企业的利益。据美国国家海洋与大气管理局(National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)估计，仅在佛罗里达礁岛群内，就有超过1000艘失事沉船。
In the case of the San José booty, commercial treasure hunters, financed in part by an adventure entrepreneur who runs tours to the Titanic, spent over $2 million and 10 years recovering portions of the treasure, only to see their permits questioned and bounty confiscated.
具体到圣何塞号上的财富，一些商业寻宝者，在一名经营泰坦尼克号旅游项目的探险企业家提供部分资金的情况下，花费了200多万美元和10年时间，打捞了其中的部分财富，得到的却是许可受质疑、所得被没收的结果。
“They called us thieves, looters, plunderers and pirates,” said Dan Porter, a Florida captain who led the expedition to find the San José. “That’s an insult. I hold this work in the highest regard.”
领导圣何塞号探索活动的佛罗里达船长丹·波特(Dan Porter)说：“他们称我们是贼、强盗、掠夺者、海盗。这是一种侮辱。我对这项工作怀有最高的敬意。”
But the industry is engaged in a battle with academic marine archaeologists and Unesco, the Paris-based United Nations agency that tries to protect cultural treasures around the world. Critics say buried coins and loot should be studied and preserved in a museum, not sported around an investor’s neck.
但是，这个行业陷入了与学院派的海洋考古学家和联合国教科文组织(Unesco)的纠葛。Unesco总部设在巴黎，致力于保护世界各地的文化财富。有批评者称，埋藏的钱币和财物应保存在博物馆中供研究，而不是作为战利品挂在投资者的脖子上。
“Treasure hunters are to maritime archaeologists what astrologers are to astronomers,” said Filipe Castro, a nautical archaeologist at Texas A&M University.
美国德克萨斯农机大学(Texas A&M University)的航海考古学家菲利佩·卡斯特罗(Filipe Castro)认为：“寻宝者与海洋考古学家之间的差别，就像占星术士与天文学家的差别。”
The Department of Homeland Security has opened an investigation into the case, and several criminal complaints are pending in Panama. Those actions underscore the perils that often accompany maritime salvage recovery, particularly as nations become increasingly sensitive to the cultural significance of underwater treasures.
美国国土安全部对该案展开了调查，在巴拿马也有多项刑事申诉等待裁决。这些行动突显了海上打捞经常伴随的风险。在各国对水下宝藏的文化意义变得日益敏感的情况下，这种风险尤其明显。
Panama was so committed to preventing plundering that in 2003, it became among the first countries to sign a United Nations treaty protecting underwater cultural heritage. But at the same time, Panama’s Ministry of Economy and Finance granted a contract giving salvage rights along its waters to a company called Investigaciones Marinas del Istmo, or IMDI.
巴拿马非常注重防止此类宝藏遭到侵吞，于2003年成为联合国的一项水下文化遗产保护条约的首批签约国之一。但与此同时，巴拿马的经济与财政部签署了一项合同，将其水域周边的打捞权授予了一家名为Investigaciones Marinas del Istmo （简称为IMDI） 的公司。
Investors included a former Panamanian governor; a Mexican-American engineer; Mike McDowell, an Australian adventure entrepreneur; and — for a different IMDI salvage project — Pat Croce, a former owner of the Philadelphia 76ers.
该公司的投资者包括一位巴拿马的前州长、一位墨西哥裔美籍工程师、澳大利亚探险企业家迈克·麦克道尔(Mike McDowell)，以及费城76人队前老板帕特·克罗斯(Pat Croce)。克罗斯参与的是IMDI的另一个打捞项目。
IMDI spent about 10 years fighting legal challenges. The company prevailed, and, with permits and court verdicts in hand, the subaquatic dig for the San José went on. Panamanian government inspectors supervised the project, and a “world class” conservation lab was built to log and preserve each discovery, the company said.
IMDI花费了大约10年时间打官司。公司赢得了官司，凭借许可和法院判决书，继续进行圣何塞号的水下挖掘工作。巴拿马政府的巡查员会对项目进行监督，公司还声称建立了一家“世界级”的保护实验室来记录和保护每次的发现。
Among other items, divers found gold and diamond jewelry, pottery, and nearly 10,000 silver coins, worth up to $1,000 each. Only one 60-pound silver bar was recovered. Based on the contract, the government got to keep anything it considered historically relevant, plus 35 percent of everything else.
除了一般物品，潜水员发现了黄金和钻石珠宝、陶器以及近1万枚银币，每个硬币的价值最高可达1000美元。他们只起获了一条60磅（约合27千克）的银条。根据合同，政府将保有其认为有历史意义的所有东西，另外还要获取剩余物品的35%。
Some Panamanian government officials objected to the deal and brought in Unesco, which sent a task force to Panama to review the project. Excavation stopped. Even after the haul was divided and the government received its share, the country’s comptroller noted a number of irregularities in the contract, questioned its validity and requested an investigation into how it had been obtained.
有些巴拿马政府官员反对这种处理方式，要求Unesco介入，后者为此专门派了一个工作组前来审核该项目。发掘工作因此停顿。即使在瓜分收获并且政府得到了自己的份额之后，巴拿马的主计长仍指出了合同中的一些违规条款，并质疑其有效性，要求调查合同是如何获得的。
“The government stopped us, even though we did everything by the book,” said Alberto Vásquez, an IMDI vice president.
IMDI副总裁阿尔贝托·巴斯克斯(Alberto Vásquez)声称：“尽管我们一切照章办事，政府仍停止了我们的工作。”
This summer, when Mr. Vásquez emerged from a bank in Panama City where he had gone to retrieve some of the company’s share of coins that were stored in a safe deposit box, the government seized 3,000 coins, saying he did not have permission to transport it.
今年夏天，巴斯克斯到巴拿马城一家银行去取存放在保险箱中属于公司的一部分钱币，出门时被政府收缴了3000枚，理由是他无权搬运该物品。
In September, Captain Porter, who led an expedition, returned to Florida with his 100 coins, worth about $500 or $600 each. The United States Border Patrol boarded his salvage vessel, searched it with dogs for six hours and confiscated the coins.
领导这次探索活动的波特船长于今年9月回佛罗里达，随身带了100枚钱币，每枚价值五六百美元。美国边境巡逻队登上了他的打捞船，用缉私犬在上面搜了六小时，没收了这些钱币。
Citing an open investigation, Nestor J. Yglesias, a spokesman for Homeland Security Investigations, the criminal investigation arm of United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, declined to comment.
美国移民与海关执法局(United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement)下属的国土安全调查局(Homeland Security Investigations)的发言人内斯特·J·伊格莱西亚斯(Nestor J. Yglesias)以调查还在进行为由，拒绝发表评论。
Panamanian government officials requested a list of questions from The New York Times, but did not respond to them, despite repeated requests.
巴拿马政府官员要求《纽约时报》提供一个问题清单，但尽管多次请求，这些问题仍未得到回答。
Ulrike Guérin, who runs Unesco’s underwater culture program, said it was not up to the United Nations to determine the legality of IMDI’s contract, but she stressed that the agency was pleased to see Panama stepping up to stop treasure hunting.
主持Unesco水下文化项目的乌尔丽克·介朗(Ulrike Guérin)表示，联合国无权裁定IMDI的合同合法与否，但她强调，该机构很高兴看到巴拿马在采取措施阻止民间寻宝活动。
Ms. Guérin said Unesco was trying to stop commercial salvagers around the world because they regularly destroy sites without giving any consideration to historical preservation or environmental damage. The divers take special care to preserve valuables such as coins, but disregard precious pottery if it looks too cracked to sell, she said.
介朗女士表示，Unesco将努力阻止全球范围内的商业打捞活动，因为这些活动通常会毁坏现场，不考虑对历史文物和环境的破坏。潜水员会特别注意保护钱币之类的高价物品，却会因为陶器看起来太破不好卖而忽视这些珍贵的东西。
“This is a fishy business of treasure hunting,” she said in a telephone interview. “I have not seen any case that was a success and everyone liking it. It ends up in a slaughter, destroying the heritage.”
她在电话采访中表示：“这种寻宝活动很可疑。我还没有看到此类活动取得皆大欢喜的成功的先例。它们最终都会造成对遗产的大肆毁坏。”