Even mammoth cruise ships are vulnerable to winds, rogue waves, icebergs, unseen rocks, mechanical failure and, of course, human error. “It may sound boring, but listen carefully to the safety briefing,” says Steven Gosling, who for a decade navigated large cruise ships as a deck officer. The best way to survive a disaster is to go into it prepared. As soon as you board a boat, familiarize yourself with the exits, the stairways, the signage. Ships lose power; corridors fill with smoke. “Even with your eyes closed, you should know: If I come out of my room and take a left, then a right, then a left, there’s the stairs,” Gosling says. Know where your life jacket is and practice putting it on, but don’t wear it until you’ve reached the deck or have been instructed to do so by a crew member. Bulky foam vests impede movement through narrow, crowded passageways.
哪怕是巨型邮轮也容易受到大风、巨浪、冰山、暗礁、机械故障的伤害，当然还有人类自己犯的错。“安全简介可能听起来很枯燥，但一定要仔细听，”史蒂文·戈斯林(Steven Gosling)说。他在大型邮轮上担任高级职位长达十年之久。最佳逃生方法就是提前做好准备。一上船，你要熟悉所有的出口、楼梯和引导标识。轮船失去动力；走道充满烟雾。“哪怕闭上眼睛，你都应该知道：如果我出舱门，向左，再向右，再向左，有个楼梯，”戈斯林说道。要知道你的救生衣在哪儿，练习怎么穿，不过，要在等到登上甲板后或工作人员发出指示之后再穿。臃肿的泡沫救生背心会妨碍你通过狭窄、拥挤的通道。
Resist turning into what Gosling calls a “have-a-go hero.” Crew members are trained to handle emergencies. Follow their instructions. But don’t go mentally limp. “If something is untoward,” he says, “don’t ignore it.” If you feel the jolt of the ship’s hull ripping open against a reef or you see water rushing in, don’t await instructions, especially if you’re in the boat’s lower regions. Go up toward the deck or to an emergency gathering location called a “muster station.” “The ship is your best lifeboat,” Gosling says. Leaping into the water should be your last resort.
不要变成戈斯林所说的“鲁莽英雄”。船员受过处理紧急情况的培训。所以要听他们的指挥。但也不要失去主张。“如果觉得情况不对劲，”他说，“一定要重视。”如果你感到船体碰上暗礁开裂的颠簸，或者看见水涌了进来，那就不要等待指示，尤其是如果你位于船体较低的部位。往上面的甲板或紧急集合点跑。“大船是你最好的救生艇，”戈斯林说。跳船应该是你最后的手段。
If your boat is going under, you will hear a verbal “abandon ship” command from the captain, assuming the public-address system still works. After that, crew members will begin lowering lifeboats. There are no international maritime laws dictating that women and children board first. Modern ships are equipped with enough lifeboat seats for everyone aboard, unless the ship’s tilt prevents their launching. Wear layers of warm clothing. Take along any necessary prescription drugs and fresh water. “You may be in a lifeboat, under the weather, for hours, days, even weeks,” Gosling says.
如果船在下沉，你将听到船长口头发出的“弃船”令——如果扩音系统还能用的话。在那之后，船员们将开始放下救生艇。没有任何国际海事法规定女人和孩子优先登艇。现代的大型船舶装备有足够多的救生艇，船上的每个人都有位置，除非船体倾斜，救生艇无法下水。尽量多穿几层保暖的衣服。带上任何必需的处方药和淡水。“你可能要在身体不适的情况下在救生艇上待数小时、数日，甚至数周，”戈斯林说。
If possible, tie all the lifeboats into a connected flotilla. Share resources, water, food, equipment and moral support. “You’ve got a much better chance of survival and being spotted and rescued working together,” Gosling says, “than if you’re one little person floating around by yourself with nothing but water for miles and miles.”
如果可能的话，把所有的救生艇连成一个小船队。分享资源、水、食物、设备和精神支持。“与你自己一个人漂流、周围只有无边海水相比，一起行动的存活、被发现和救起的可能性要大得多，”戈斯林说。