JINDO, South Korea — As Navy divers recovered the bodies of dozens of teenagers drowned waiting for a rescue of their doomed ferry, South Korea has begun a national bout of hand-wringing over the country’s tendency to overlook safety precautions in its quest for economic success.
韩国珍岛——随着海军潜水员找回数十名青少年的遗体，韩国民众已经对该国追求经济效益、忽视安全防护措施的倾向产生了一种蔓延全国的绝望情绪。这些青少年乘坐的渡轮已经沉没，他们是在等待渡轮获救时溺亡的。
With a mounting list of errors that appeared to have contributed to the ferry disaster, maritime experts, the press and regular citizens venting their anger on social media have begun to question what they describe as inadequate safety precautions and often lax regulation of businesses.
人们发现了越来越多可能导致渡轮灾难的错误行为，有鉴于此，海事专家、媒体以及在社交媒体上发泄不满的普通民众已经开始质疑他们所说的失当安全措施，以及往往流于松懈的商业活动监管。
On Tuesday, an opposition lawmaker released data showing that the ship was carrying three times its recommended maximum cargo, though it remained unclear if that could have helped destabilize it.
周二，一名反对派议员公布的数据显示，这艘渡轮的运载量是其建议载货极限的三倍，但目前尚不清楚，这会不会是导致船体倾覆的因素之一。
In addition, President Park Geun-hye, who has been withering in her criticism of the crew, has also argued that cozy relations between regulators and shippers may have contributed to the catastrophe, one of South Korea’s worst in peacetime. The prime minister, meanwhile, cited specific problems that might have been addressed by better regulation, including suspicions that renovations to add more sleeping cabins made the ship top-heavy and more likely to keel over.
除此之外，一直在猛烈批评船员的韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)也指出，监管机构对航运商的纵容可能在一定程度上导致了这场灾难，这是韩国和平时期最惨痛的灾难之一。与此同时，韩国总理列出了一些本可以通过更好监管得到解决的具体问题，比如公司涉嫌为增加卧舱数目对渡轮进行了改造，由此导致渡轮头重脚轻，容易倾覆。
The country’s top newspapers reflected the growing sense of anger, and shock, over what they suggested was a lack of proper oversight. “Are we a safe society or a third-rate people?” read one editorial headline in the JoongAng newspaper. And the daily Dong-A newspaper ran an editorial titled “Cry Korea,” in which it argued that Ms. Park should live up to her campaign promise to run an “administration of safety.”
韩国主要报纸反映了越来越强烈的愤怒及震惊情绪，针对的则是它们所称的监管乏力。《中央日报》(JoongAng)一篇社论的标题是，“我们是一个安全社会还是三流民族？”(Are we a safe society or a third-rate people)《东亚日报》(Dong-A)则发表了一篇题为“哭泣吧，韩国”(Cry Korea)的社论，文章认为，朴槿惠应该信守竞选承诺，打造一个“注重安全的政府”。
For years, South Koreans called their country “a land of disasters” after a lack of regulation or a cavalier attitude toward safety, or both, were at least partly blamed for a string of accidents.
多年以来，韩国人一直将自己的祖国称为“多难之国”，因为人们认为，之前的一系列事故至少部分归咎于监管乏力，或是当局对安全问题漫不经心的态度，或是两个因素的共同作用。
In 1993, an Asiana Airlines jet slammed into a hill not far from the site of the ferry accident, killing 68 passengers. Later that year, an overloaded ferry sank, killing 292. In 1994, a bridge collapsed in Seoul, killing 32. In 1995, 101 died in a gas explosion, and 501 in the collapse of a department store in Seoul that was weakened after the owner violated building safety codes by adding a swimming pool at the top. Two years later, a Korean Air jet crashed in Guam, killing 228.
1993年，韩亚航空公司(Asiana Airlines)的一架飞机撞上一座小山，导致68名乘客死亡，那座小山距离渡轮事故发生地不远。同年晚些时候，一艘超载的渡轮沉没，致使292人遇难。1994年，首尔的一座大桥倒塌，导致32人死亡。1995年，101人在瓦斯爆炸事件中遇难。同年，首尔一家百货商店的店主违反建筑安全规范，在屋顶增建游泳池，最终导致受损的建筑发生倒塌，501人因此丧命。两年后，大韩航空(Korean Airlines)的一架飞机在关岛坠毁，致使228人遇难。
With no large-scale disaster reported since arson caused a subway fire that killed 192 people in 2003, South Korea appeared to have put its curse behind it — and the country appeared to have moved on from its culture of “ppali ppali,” or “hurry hurry,” loosely translated as a tendency to justify cutting corners to get work finished quickly.
2003年，人为纵火引发地铁火灾，导致192人丧生，自此之后，韩国再没有出现有关大规模灾难的报告，似乎已经摆脱了诅咒，并且已经摒弃了“快点、快点”的文化——可粗略解释为喜欢走捷径，迅速完成工作的倾向。
Now, many Koreans are expressing shame at how far their country still needs to go to address safety concerns, adding to the grief and anger that has gripped the country since the accident last Wednesday.
看到自己的国家在解决安全问题方面还有很长的路要走，很多韩国人都表示了羞愧，由此加剧了全国民众自上周三事故发生以来的悲痛及愤怒情绪。
On Tuesday, anger at the crew’s apparent missteps in the evacuation — and their abandonment of the ferry, the Sewol, as it sank with scores of people trapped inside — only grew as investigators said the crew was not even the first to notify the authorities that the ship was in trouble. The first call, they said, came from a high school student who called the police.
人们对船员在撤离过程中的明显失误及他们遗弃“岁月号”(Sewol)渡轮的行为感到非常愤怒，因为渡轮沉没时，仍有很多人被困在船内。周二，调查人员称首先告知当局渡轮遇到麻烦的并不是船员，人们的不满情绪进一步加剧。调查人员称，第一个电话是一名高中生拨打的，电话打给了警方。
“Save us! We’re on a ship and I think it’s sinking,” the student is quoted as saying, according to the South Korean national news agency, Yonhap. The boy, identified only by his family name, Choi, is among the missing.
韩国国家联合通讯社(Yonhap)报道称，这名学生当时说，“救救我们！我们在一艘船上，我觉得船正在下沉。”这名姓崔(Choi)的男生目前下落不明。
As of Tuesday night, the death toll had risen to 121, but 181 were still missing.
截至周二晚间，死亡人数已升至121人，仍有181人失踪。
Analysts said the ferry accident appeared to be a reminder that South Korea did not shed its easy acceptance of loose regulatory enforcement even as it became a high-tech economic powerhouse flooding the world markets with Samsung smartphones. The culture of lax enforcement is such a given, experts say, that government officials consider working in public safety a second-rate job.
分析人士表示，这起渡轮事故似乎可以提醒人们，韩国虽然成为了高科技经济强国，凭借三星(Samsung)智能手机席卷了全球市场，但却没有摆脱易于接受宽松的监管执法的习惯。专家表示，由于执法不严的文化根深蒂固，政府官员已经把公共安全方面的岗位当成了二流工作。
In South Korea, more than 31,000 people, including 3,000 students, die every year in accidents, accounting for 12.8 percent of the country’s total annual deaths, the highest rate among major developed nations.
在韩国，每年有逾3.1万人死于事故，其中有3000人是学生，因事故死亡的人数占到了韩国年死亡总数的12.8%，这一比例在主要发达国家中是最高的。
Those accidents include everything from car accidents to fires, and it is unclear how much can be attributed to a lack of focus on safety. But there is a general acknowledgment in hypercompetitive South Korea that success is often measured by how quickly and cheaply a job is done, and that spending too much time and resources trying to follow rules is sometimes seen as losing a competitive edge.
这些事故五花八门，有车祸也有火灾，目前还不清楚，这些事故在多大程度上应归咎于对安全缺乏关注。不过，竞争极为激烈的韩国社会有一项共识，即衡量成功的标准往往是能以多快的速度和多低的成本完成一项工作，为遵守规章花费过多的时间和资源，有时会被视为减小竞争优势的做法。
“The country has grown so rapidly that a lot of shortcuts have been made, so that it’s waiting for an accident to happen,” said Tom Coyner, a member of the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea and the author of “Doing Business in Korea.”
韩国美国商会(American Chamber of Commerce in Korea)会员、《在韩国经商》(Doing Business in Korea)一书的作者托马斯·L·科伊纳(Thomas L. Coyner)表示，“这个国家发展得如此之快，以至于人们大量地走捷径，等于是坐等事故发生。”
Kim Chang-je, a professor of navigation science at Korea Maritime and Ocean University, said the complaints appeared to be true of the ferry business. “We have the safety regulations and systems that were similar to global norms,” he said. “But they are not properly enforced. All the problems with the South Korean ferry business have come out in the Sewol case.”
韩国海事大学(Korea Maritime and Ocean University)航海学教授金昌杰（Kim Chang-je，音）表示，就船运业而言，这样的指责似乎符合实情。他说，“我们设立了和全球规范类似的安全规范和机制，但却执行不力。‘岁月号’暴露了韩国船运业的所有问题。”
He and other experts pointed out a host of issues they say undermined safety on the ferry, including that the crew included several contract workers, who might have been less familiar with the ship than a regular crew.
他和其他专家指出了一大堆问题，他们表示，正是这些问题破坏了“岁月”号的安全保障。他们指出的问题之一是，船员里有几名合同工，他们对船只的熟悉程度可能不如正式员工。
Investigators have also said the decision by the company that owned the ferry, Chonghaejin Marine, to add more sleeping cabins probably undermined the ship’s ability to regain its balance after tilting.
调查人员还表示，“岁月号”所属企业清海镇船运公司(Chonghaejin Marine)添加卧舱舱位的决定很可能削弱了船体在倾斜后恢复平衡的能力。
The Korea Register of Shipping, an inspection agency, approved the change to the ship’s design after advising Chonghaejin Marine to carry less cargo and more ballast water to compensate for the loss of stability. But on Tuesday Kim Young-rok, an opposition lawmaker, said that when the ship left Incheon, it carried 3,608 tons of cargo, three times the recommended maximum. The company’s audit data showed it has depended increasingly upon cargo to compensate for declining passenger revenues.
韩国检验机构韩国船级社(Korea Register of Shipping)曾建议清海镇船运公司减少载货量，增多压舱水，以抵消船体稳定性的损失，然后才批准了该公司的船体设计改造申请。然而，反对派议员金永禄（Kim Young-rok，音）周二表示，“岁月号”离开仁川时载有3608吨货物，是建议最大载货量的三倍。清海镇船运公司的审计数据显示，该公司越来越依赖货运收入，为的是弥补不断下降的客运收入。
Prosecutors were investigating whether the Sewol did not carry enough ballast water to accommodate the extra cargo. One of the two first mates arrested on Tuesday told reporters that when he tried to right the ship after tilting, the ballast “didn’t work.”
检方正在调查“岁月号”是否装载了足够的压舱水，以平衡额外的货物重量。周二被捕的两名大副之一对记者表示，当他在船倾斜后尝试调正船体时，压舱水“不起作用”。
Prosecutors raided Korea Register’s headquarters on Tuesday and barred the head of Chonghaejin Marine, as well as the company’s family owners, from leaving the country.
检方于周二搜查了韩国船级社的总部，并禁止清海镇船运公司的负责人和拥有该公司的家族离境。
It has also become clear that the captain most likely violated national navigational guidelines when he left the ship in the control of the least experienced ship’s mate through a waterway notorious for its rapid currents. The guidelines stipulate a captain should be in control in busy or dangerous waters.
另一个业已查明的事实是，船长把船交给了最缺乏经验的大副，由后者操控船只通过一段因水流湍急而闻名的航道，此举极有可能违反了韩国航运章程。章程规定，在繁忙或危险水域，船长应该亲自控制船只。
The Sewol also had no extra captain, as ships often do when they are on long overnight voyages so the two can take turns in the bridge, experts said. The ship’s main captain was on leave.
专家表示，以上问题之外，“岁月号”还没有按照长途夜航的常例多配一名船长，以便两人在甲板室里倒班。这艘船的主船长正在休假。