NEW DELHI — The house once occupied by India’s most notorious rapists is now sealed with a heavy padlock, at the end of a cul-de-sac smelling of musty abandonment.
新德里——印度最臭名昭著的强奸犯以前居住的房子，现在由一把沉重的挂锁把着门。它位于一条死巷的尽头，散发着废弃建筑的霉味。
Ask the neighbors about Mukesh Singh and they will try to shoo you away, or, failing that, retreat down one of the colony’s narrow alleys, releasing a stream of muttered complaints: One more outsider raking up this shameful episode, pouring life back into a stain that had begun to fade.
穆克什·辛格(Mukesh Singh)的邻居们会赶你走，如果赶不走，他们就退回这个聚居区的某条狭窄小巷，喃喃地抱怨：又来了一个打探这桩可耻事件的外人，要把已经开始褪色的污垢再次翻出来。
It is not that they do not remember Mr. Singh, one of four men from this neighborhood arrested in the savage rape of a 23-year-old physiotherapy student who later died of her injuries. Sentenced to death in 2013, Mr. Singh re-emerged into the public eye last week, when the BBC released quotes from a jailhouse interview he gave for “India’s Daughter,” a British documentary about the crime. Indian authorities have banned the film.
这并不是说他们不记得辛格了。因为参与一桩野蛮的强奸案，导致一名理疗专业的学生后来不治身亡，这个居民区里有四名男子被捕，23岁的辛格就是其中之一。2013年，辛格被判处了死刑，上周，他再次进入了公众视线，因为英国广播公司(BBC)播放了于这桩强奸案的英国纪录片《印度之女》(India's Daughter)，其中包括辛格在监狱接受采访的片段。印度当局禁播了这部纪录片。
No one goes unnoticed in Ravidas, a warren of tiny houses where auto-rickshaw drivers and street vendors are trying to haul their families up to the lowest rung of India’s middle class. Yet a code of silence has settled around the subject of the 2012 rape. Many of Mr. Singh’s former neighbors long for his death.
拉维达斯聚居区由很多杂乱的小房子组成，住在这里的三轮摩托司机和街头小贩努力想让家庭生计达到印度中产阶层的最低水平。在这里，没人可以不为他人注意，但是，他们对2012年的那桩强奸案普遍缄口不谈。辛格以前的很多邻居都非常希望他死。
“People like this should be killed immediately,” said Pooja Gupta, 20, her expression stony. “They should leave them in a public place and let the public sort it out. The way they did in Nagaland,” she added, referring to last week’s fatal beating of an accused rapist in northeast India. “They should hang them, but not in jail. They should take them on a parade through the streets, and then hang them.”
“像这样的人，应该立即处死，”20岁的普加·古普塔(Pooja Gupta)表情冷硬地说。“应该把他们丢到公共场所，让公众处理这件事。那加兰邦就是这么做的，”她说，指的是上周在印度东北部，一名遭到指控的强奸犯被公众殴打致死。“这些人应该被吊死，而不是关在监狱里。应该游街示众，然后吊死他们。”
As for the documentary, which will premiere in New York on Monday, Ms. Gupta, who is in her third year of university, said she had no interest in seeing it. “He has not been hanged, and he is free to air his views,” she said. “He is not worthy of being spoken to.”
这部纪录片本周一在纽约首映，正在读大学三年级的古普塔说自己没有兴趣看。“他还没有被吊死，还可以自由发言，”她说。“他甚至不配和人说话。”
The banning of “India’s Daughter” is the second time that Indian society has been shaken over this crime. During the days after the young woman died, protests in Delhi grew so large that city officials hastily enacted a ban on demonstrations, but nevertheless the police ended up firing tear gas and water cannons, beating protesters with bamboo sticks and arresting dozens.
《印度之女》被禁播是印度社会第二次因为这桩罪行掀起波澜。在受害女子死亡之后，德里举行的抗议活动规模之大，导致城市官员匆忙颁布了游行禁令，尽管如此，警方最后还是发射了催泪弹和水炮，用竹竿击打示威者，并且逮捕了数十人。
Mr. Singh is one of six men who were charged with rape and murder in the case. Ram Singh, Mukesh Singh’s older brother, was found hanged from a bedsheet in his prison cell before the trial. Another man, who was a juvenile at the time of the crime, was sentenced to three years in a detention center. The remaining men pleaded not guilty, and are appealing their death sentences.
这宗案件中，有六人被指控犯有强奸和谋杀罪行，辛格就是其中之一。拉姆·辛格(Ram Singh)是穆克什的兄弟，庭审前已经在牢房中用床单上吊身亡。另一名男子在犯罪的时候尚未成年，被判处在看守所囚禁三年。其它人拒不认罪，并对死刑裁决提起了上诉。
The latest controversy centers on speech. Advance publicity for the film highlighted Mr. Singh’s interview, in which he blamed the victim for the attack, saying, “A decent girl won’t roam around at 9 o’clock at night.”
最新的争论集中在言论上。该片的前期宣传显示，辛格在采访中指责受害者自己惹祸上身，他说，“体面的姑娘是不会在晚上9点到处乱逛的。”
An Indian court swiftly issued an order blocking the film’s broadcast, stating that his statements were offensive to women and could set off civil unrest. The authorities then approached YouTube, which blocked many channels of users who had uploaded the film onto the Internet. The ban has come under criticism, including from the Editor’s Guild of India, which called it “wholly unwarranted, based as it is on a misunderstanding of the power and the message behind it.”
一所印度法院迅速下令禁播这部纪录片，理由是这种言论会冒犯妇女，可能引发社会动荡。当局于是联系了YouTube，屏蔽了曾上载该片的用户的大量频道。这项禁令遭到了一些批评，印度编辑协会(Editor’s Guild of India)就称其“完全没有根据，误解了这种言论背后的力量和信息”。
The news channel NDTV left its screen blank in protest for an hour on Sunday evening, at the time it had planned to broadcast the film.
新闻频道NDTV原本计划周日晚上播出这部纪录片，为了表示抗议，NDTV在该时段内一直让屏幕保持空白。
One place the ban has support is Ravidas Colony, a collection of around 250 boxlike houses with no indoor plumbing or running water. Mukesh Singh and his elder brother, Ram, had arrived here as most of their neighbors did: from a remote village, the sons of landless laborers. The brothers worked as drivers, and were known as drinkers and brawlers, but not criminals. Neighbor after neighbor recalled them as “regular guys.”
拉维达斯聚居区支持这道禁令。这里共有约250座像盒子一样的房屋，没有室内管道和自来水。穆克什·辛格和兄弟拉姆和这里的大多数邻居一样，来自偏僻的乡村，父母是没有田地的劳工。两兄弟当司机谋生，喜欢喝酒打架，但是没有作奸犯科之举。一个个邻居都说他们是“普通小伙”。
“I have known them since my childhood, but I did not imagine they could do anything like this,” said Ram Kishore Anuragi, 17, who grew up two doors away. “They were always together, always drinking. They sometimes got into fights, but they didn’t misbehave with any of the women here.”
“我从小就认识他们，但我想象不出他们会做这样的事，”17岁的拉姆·基肖尔·安努拉齐(Ram Kishore Anuragi)说。他的家与辛格家隔着两扇门。“他们总是在一起，总是喝酒，有时会打架斗殴，但从来没有对这里的女人胡来过。”
In the film, Mukesh Singh tells this story tonelessly: It was after an afternoon of heavy drinking that six of them “went out to party” in the bus his brother usually drove. They found the young woman at a bus stop — she had been to see a movie with a male friend — and when the couple climbed on, they knocked the man unconscious and raped the woman repeatedly, including with an iron rod. Mr. Singh, who claimed he drove the bus but did not take part in the attack, said he looked back and saw one of the men pull something from her body.
在纪录片里，穆克什·辛格讲述事情始末时语气平板：那天下午，六个人大量饮酒之后，去通常由他兄弟驾驶的公交车上“聚会”。他们发现公交车站上有一名年轻女子——她之前和一个男性朋友去看了电影——两人上车后，他们打晕了该男子，然后多次强奸了那名女子，包括用铁棒实施强奸。辛格称自己在驾驶公交车，并没有参与袭击活动。他说自己回头看时，发现一名男子从她的身体里拽出了一些东西。
“It was her intestines,” Mr. Singh said. An hour later, they dumped the pair on the roadside, bleeding and naked. The woman died two weeks later.
“那是她的肠子，”辛格说。一个小时后，他们把受伤流血的两人赤裸裸地扔在路边。受害女子在两周后不治身亡。
When the men were arrested, the attention that fell on Ravidas — a slum, the newspapers called it — infuriated its residents, who felt their reputation had been besmirched. Despite appearances, they describe themselves not as poor but as middle class; the fathers may do menial work, but the children talk about internships and exams. “There is an expression, ‘One fish can dirty the entire pond,’ ” Mr. Anuragi said. “That is what happened here.”
这些男子被抓捕之后，拉维达斯引起了人们的注意，报纸称它是贫民窟，令当地居民感到恼怒，觉得自己的声誉遭到了玷污。尽管表面看似贫民，他们说自己并不穷，而是属于中产阶级；父亲可能是干粗活的，但孩子们讨论的话题是实习和考试。“俗话说，‘一颗老鼠屎坏了一锅汤，’”安努拉齐说。“情况就是这样。”
One recent morning, the entire colony smelled of laundry detergent. Young women were crouched over garments, scrubbing them on stones in the footpath, and climbing up to hang them on a spider web of clotheslines suspended above the roofs from trees and utility poles. Ms. Gupta had been listening silently, but when the conversation turned to the question of who is to blame for sexual assault she spoke up sharply.
不久前的一天早上，整个居民区都弥漫着洗衣粉的味道。年轻女子弯着腰，在人行道的石头上洗刷衣服，然后爬到高处进行晾晒。晾衣绳拴在树木和电线杆上，像结在屋顶上方的蜘蛛网。古普塔默默听着我们采访，但是当话题转到性侵问题归咎于谁时，她尖锐地表达了自己的看法。
“Everything’s always the girl’s fault, from birth to death,” she said. “If the parents of boys would ask them why are they are out so late at night, this kind of thing wouldn’t happen. But when a girl is outside at 7 or 8 o’clock the neighbors start talking about her.”
“一切都是女孩的错，从生到死，”她说。“如果男孩的父母问他们为什么这么晚还在外面，这种事情不会发生。但当一个女孩晚上七八点还在外面的时候，邻居们就会议论纷纷。”
Mr. Anuragi acknowledged her point: For spending money, he said, he is given 500 rupees or about $8, while his sister is given only 200 rupees, though he has never been entirely sure why. Sisters and brothers are raised with an entirely different set of rules, Ms. Gupta said, increasingly angry.
安努拉齐认可上述说法。他表示，从零用钱来看，父母给他500卢比（约合50元人民币），只给他姐姐200卢比，但他一直不太确定其中的原因。愈发愤怒的古普塔说，女孩和男孩成长时要遵守完全不同的规则。
“Girls obey their parents, and boys don’t,” she said. “If a girl ever tried to do what a boy does, the family would come down very hard on her.”
“女孩听父母的话，男孩不听，”她说。“如果一个女孩试图做男孩做的事情，会遭到这个家庭的严厉惩罚。”
Posted at their doorsteps a few paces from Mukesh Singh’s padlocked home, a group of older women were too irritated to answer questions, but complained at high volume that the revived talk about the case meant that they could no longer hold their heads up in public.
一群站在距离穆克什·辛格大门紧闭的住所几步远的台阶上的年长女性非常愤怒，以至于无法回答问题，她们高声抱怨道，该案再次引发讨论，这意味着她们在公共场合可能又会抬不起头来了。