SHAXI, China — The woman shuffled around her shop in the village square, telling visitors how she came to be selling wooden swords and woven slippers to tourists rather than tending to her fields.
中国沙溪——那位女士在村里的广场上经营着一家小店，她一边忙里忙外，一边告诉到访者，自己怎么干起了向游客兜售木剑和编织拖鞋的营生，而不是去照管田地。
He Yuqing, 60, wore a blue tunic and apron, common among older ethnic Bai women of this verdant valley in the Himalayan foothills. In the plaza outside, afternoon sunlight fell across cobblestones on which horse caravans once trod.
60岁的何玉清（音）穿着蓝色上衣，扎着围裙，在喜马拉雅山丘陵地带这个草木青葱的村落里，她和其他上了年纪的白族女人没有什么不同。外面的广场上，午后的阳光撒满碎石路面，当年曾有马帮从这里经过。
She said she had been renting the shop from the local government for eight years. If an international architecture team had not restored the square’s ramshackle wooden buildings, she said, she would be doing hard labor among her fields of corn, fruit and grains.
她说店面是她从当地政府手中租下的，已经租了八年。如果不是一个国际建筑师团队修缮了广场上那些摇摇欲坠的木制建筑，她眼下应该还在田里辛苦劳作，种植玉米、水果和稻谷。
“Before they restored this, it just wasn’t as beautiful,” she said. “They did a good job.”
“他们修缮这个地方之前，它根本没这么美，”她说。“他们做了件好事。”
In a project little known outside China, a Swiss-led team worked for years to renovate the square of Sideng Village. The square was the site of the main market in Shaxi, a valley dotted with Bai villages in the Hengduan Mountains of southwest China.
这是一个在中国以外不为人知的项目。一个由瑞士人牵头的团队花了好几年时间，完成了寺登村广场的修缮工作。该广场以前是沙溪镇的主要集市所在地。沙溪镇位于中国西南部的横断山脉，四下散落着大大小小的白族村落。
The renovators aimed to remake Sideng’s former marketplace to be fully consistent with historical design and artwork, a commitment rare in China. They say the project could be a model for other village renovation efforts in the country. It has been praised by Unesco, the United Nations cultural agency.
修缮广场的那些人，想要重现寺登村古老集市的原貌，从设计到工艺都跟从前一模一样，这样的做法在中国非常罕见。他们说该项目可以为中国其他村落的修缮提供一个范例。它已经获得联合国的文化机构——联合国教科文组织(Unesco)的好评。
The restored buildings include a centuries-old Buddhist temple that had been converted to government offices after 1949. Facing the temple is a four-story theater with soaring eaves and an outdoor performance terrace for local orchestras. Every June, valley residents converge on the plaza to hold the Torch Festival, in which they erect and light on fire a towering pine trunk.
经过修缮的建筑包括一座有几百年历史的佛寺，1949年以后，该寺庙变成了政府的办公室。寺庙对面是一座四层楼的戏院，有着高高翘起的屋檐和一个可供当地剧团演出的露天戏台。每逢7月，村民们都会聚集在广场上庆祝火把节，点燃一根竖起的松树树干。
The village square is now considered by some to be one of the most beautiful in China. It evokes the era when the Tea and Horse Caravan Trail passed through the valley. This part of Yunnan Province lies east of the Tibetan plateau, and Tibetans traded horses for tea that was then transported across the plateau, all the way to Lhasa.
在一些人眼里，这个村镇广场是中国最美的广场之一。它让人想起茶马古道从这片山谷穿过的年代。云南省的这片地方位于青藏高原东部，从前，藏人用马匹交换茶叶，然后一路穿越高原，把茶叶运到拉萨。
Yet, Shaxi remains free of the tourist hordes that swarm the streets of Lijiang, a drive of just a couple of hours to the north, and Dali, a couple of hours to the south. They, too, have renovated ancient town centers, but the new homes and storefronts there were built haphazardly.
从这里往北或者往南几个小时的车程，就是大街小巷都挤满游客的丽江和大理。丽江和大理也修缮了一些古镇，但那边的新房子和临街店面建得杂乱无章。不过这里还没有大批游客光顾。
“When the Chinese do this, they think, ‘How can I attract as many people as possible to this place?’” said Chris Barclay, the American owner of a boutique guesthouse, the Old Theatre Inn, in the countryside outside the Sideng square. “None of that has happened here, which is great.”
“中国人做这些事的时候，他们想的是，‘我怎么才能尽可能多地把人们吸引过来？’”拥有一家精品客栈的美国人克里斯·巴克莱(Chris Barclay)说，“谢天谢地，这里不是这样。”巴克利的客栈名叫戏台会馆(Old Theatre Inn)。
Mr. Barclay and his wife have been using their own money to renovate the Pear Orchard Temple, mainly in thanks to the fertility aspect of the goddess Guanyin there. His Thai wife, a Buddhist, became pregnant at age 45 after praying to Guanyin on a visit; their first child had died years earlier.
巴克莱和他妻子一直在用自己的钱修缮梨园寺，他们这样做主要是为了感谢观音的庇护。他的泰国妻子是个佛教徒，在45岁再次怀孕之前，曾到观音面前祷告；他们的第一个孩子前些年去世了。
Mr. Barclay said he had also been inspired by the marketplace work done in Sideng.
巴克莱说，寺登村集市的修缮工作也让他受到了启发。
That project began with Jacques Feiner, a Swiss conservation expert who had worked on the old city in Sana, Yemen. Around 2000, he was looking for a project along the South Silk Road and settled on the Shaxi Valley because the scale of the Sideng marketplace was manageable, said Huang Yinwu, a team leader and Swiss-trained architect.
该项目的牵头人是在也门萨那老城区工作过的文化遗产保护专家雅克·费纳(Jacques Feiner)。据修缮项目一位负责人、曾在瑞士求学的建筑师黄印武介绍，2000年前后，费纳想在南丝绸之路上做一个项目，最后之所以选择沙溪，是因为寺登村集市规模适中，易于把控。
At Mr. Feiner’s urging, the World Monuments Fund, based in New York, added the marketplace to its 2002 watch list of 100 Most Endangered Sites. The Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich and the government of Jianchuan County put together a conservation team.
在费纳的呼吁下，总部位于纽约的世界文化遗产基金会(World Monuments Fund)把该集市加入了2002年的“世界百大濒危文明遗址关注名单”。苏黎世的瑞士联合理工学院(Swiss Federal Institute of Technology)和剑川县政府共同组成了保护小组。
Mr. Huang, originally from Hubei Province, joined the team and came to Shaxi in 2003. The team had an advantage doing conservation here: The local Bai carpenters are considered among the most skilled in China and get commissions across the country.
湖北人黄印武在2003年加入保护小组，来到沙溪。他们在这儿从事保护工作有一个有利条件：白族木匠被认为技艺最为高超，在全国各地都被雇佣从事相关工作。
“In this process, the main purpose was to understand the local tradition, the local knowledge, the local craftsmanship,” Mr. Huang said. “We wanted to see how far we could go with the local knowledge.”
“在这个过程中，我们的主要目的是理解当地的传统、知识和手工艺，”黄印武说。“我们想看看自己能在多大程度上使用当地的技艺。”
The team restored low-slung wooden facades around the old marketplace and a 100-year-old caravansary. Most of the plaza’s buildings are just a century old because they have been repeatedly rebuilt — bandits burned down the buildings in constant raids.
这个团队修复了古集市周边建筑和有100年历史的商队客栈那些低矮的木质门面。广场周边大多数建筑只有100年历史，是因为它们在历史上经历了多次重建——土匪经常来袭，会放火烧掉这些建筑。
When the project began, most of the buildings had been abandoned. In 2006, the buds of commerce appeared. A couple from faraway Shenzhen asked to rent one of the smaller buildings near the theater; they wanted to live there and turn it into a cafe.
这个项目启动时，这里的大多数建筑处于废弃状态。2006年，商业活动开始在这里复苏。一对夫妇从遥远的深圳过来，提出要租用戏台附近一座小一点的建筑；他们想在那里生活，并要把它改造成一家咖啡馆。
Mr. Huang said this went against his idea for the plaza — he had intended for the fronts to be shops and the interiors to be courtyards open to the public.
黄印武表示，这与他当时对广场的规划理念相悖——他原想把这些房子前面做商店，内部则成为向公众开放的庭院。
“I didn’t agree to that,” he said with a laugh as he sat in the square one recent morning, pointing to the Old Tree Cafe run by the couple. “The government wanted them to move in, so they started living there and running the business there.”
“当时我不同意他们的做法，”在最近的一个清晨，他坐在广场上笑着说道，一边用手指着那对夫妇经营的老树咖啡馆。“政府想让他们搬进来，所以他们开始在那里生活，做生意。”
The Xingjiao Temple took four years to refurbish. A fierce blue guardian deity and a red one flank the main entrance. The Bai here worship local gods and practice Esoteric Buddhism.
兴教寺的翻修工作花了四年时间。在它的主殿入口处两侧，各立着一尊金刚像，左边是蓝色，右边为红色，相貌凶恶。白族人崇拜当地的神灵，并信奉佛教密宗。
“Having the temple and theater together facing each other is a local custom,” Mr. Huang said. “The locals think the Buddha should enjoy the performances along with the people. I’m working on another temple in Shaxi where there is a stage in the main temple area. You move a wooden god to face the stage.”
“把寺庙和戏院建在一起，让它们隔街而望，是当地的一种习俗，”黄印武说。“当地人认为，佛陀也应该能和人们一起观看戏剧演出。我现在正着手修复沙溪古镇上的另一座寺庙，它的主殿区域就有一个戏台。会有一个木雕神像正对着这个舞台。”
That temple, Chenghuang, is part of the next phase of the renovation project, as envisioned by Mr. Huang: founding community centers across Shaxi to help residents tap into the tourist economy.
这个庙就是城隍庙，是上述修缮项目下一阶段工作的一部分。按照黄印武的构想，下一阶段的任务就是在整个沙溪古镇建起多个社区中心，帮助当地居民发展旅游经济。
Mr. Huang, who still lives in Shaxi even though his Swiss teammates have left, said the first such center would be at Chenghuang Temple. His plans call for the centers to have computers where villagers can go online; tourists following cycling and walking routes through the valley would mingle with the villagers at those centers.
尽管其瑞士队友已经离开，黄印武依然生活在沙溪。他表示，第一个社区中心就建在城隍庙内。在他的计划中，这些社区中心会配备计算机，村民可以到那里上网；在这个溪谷地区骑自行车和徒步旅游的游客，可以在这些中心和村民们交流和往来。
Thirteen villages would be part of this network, and residents might start homegrown industries like craft beer to appeal to the tourist crowds, he said.
他表示，有13个村庄会加入这个社区网络，当地居民可以发展手工酿造啤酒等本土产业，以吸引游客。
“We can have Internet-based education,” he said. “This is a way to help people to understand more and get the capability to develop things on their own.”
“我们可以依托互联网展开教育工作，”他说。“这是帮助当地人学习更多东西，使之具备自力更生能力的一种方法。”
Guesthouses and cafes have boomed in Sideng Village, but they are mostly run by outsider Chinese rather than locals.
家庭客栈和咖啡馆在寺登村快速发展起来，但它们大多是由外地人，而非当地人经营。
The Shaxi Horse Pen 46 Youth Hostel next to the central theater was opened in 2010 by Huo Wanfei, 36, who moved here from Sichuan Province after visiting as a backpacker. Now that the Swiss-led team is done with the plaza, these Chinese outsiders are the main force behind renovating buildings, mostly to start tourist businesses.
坐落在中央戏台旁边的沙溪马圈46国际青年旅舍，是由36岁的霍万菲（音）创立，她在以背包客的身份来这里旅游之后，就从四川搬到了这里。如今，瑞士人主导的修缮团队已结束了他们在广场周边的工作，这些来自中国各地的外来者成为了修复古建筑的主力，他们大多是为了在这里做旅游生意。
Ms. Huo said she had employed local carpenters and completed the renovation after much trial and error.
霍万菲表示，她雇了几名当地的木匠，经过反复试错，才完成了这栋建筑的修缮。
“It made me realize there’s a way in nature that makes things work out,” she said.
“这让我意识到，自然中实际上存在一种能让事情顺利解决的方法，”她说。
The evolution of the village is beginning to mirror what happened in Lijiang. The locals are renting out their homes to outsiders and moving elsewhere. So visitors to Sideng increasingly meet Chinese outsiders and not Bai locals like Ms. He.
这个村庄的演进开始显现出丽江的影子。当地人将房子租给外来者，自己则搬到别的地方。所以前往寺登古镇的游客，越来越多碰到的是外地人，而不是何玉清那样的白族本地人。
“The market is driving Shaxi in this direction,” Mr. Huang said. “This is not something in our control. That is why I’m doing this new project to encourage a community economy.”
“市场正在把沙溪推上那条路，”黄印武说。“这不是我们所能控制的。这也是我做这个新项目，鼓励建设社区经济的原因。”