BAGHDAD — He took millions of dollars from the C.I.A., founded and was accused of defrauding the second-biggest bank in Jordan and sold the Bush administration a bill of goods on weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
巴格达——他拿到了美国中央情报局(CIA)提供的数以百万计的美元，创立了约旦第二大银行，但遭到骗取银行资金的指控，他还欺骗布什政府，称伊拉克拥有大规模杀伤性武器。
At first championed by the Bush administration’s neoconservatives as a potential leader of Iraq, Ahmad Chalabi ended up persona non grata, effectively barred from the wartime American Embassy here. Now, in an improbable twist of fate, Mr. Chalabi is being talked about as a serious candidate for prime minister. He has also been back to the embassy.
艾哈迈德·沙拉比(Ahmad Chalabi)最初获得了布什政府新保守派的支持，成为伊拉克领导人的潜在人选，但他最终遭到美国唾弃，战时美国驻巴格达大使馆实际上是禁止他入内的。如今，命运发生了不可思议的转折，人们都在谈论他是一名重要的总理候选人。他也重新获准进入大使馆。
As Iraq’s political parties held round-the-clock meetings the past three days to try to agree on the shape of a new government in time to convene Parliament on Tuesday and begin choosing new leaders, Mr. Chalabi’s name was one of two being prominently mentioned to replace the incumbent prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
伊拉克的政党在过去三天的时间里不分昼夜地开会，设法就新政府的构成及时达成一致，以便在周二召开议会会议，开始选举新领导人。人们主要提到两名代替现任总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的候选人，沙拉比是其中之一。
Mr. Chalabi’s Iraqi National Congress has only one seat in the Parliament, his own, and it is a measure of his skills as a political operator that he is even under consideration.
沙拉比领导的伊拉克国民大会党(Iraqi National Congress)中，只有他自己在议会拥有席位，即便如此，他仍在考虑范围内，这体现了他作为政治操盘手的本事。
It is also a measure of the desperate state of the effort to forge a new government amid severe sectarian strains and demands from both American and Iranian allies that Sunnis and Kurds be included — all while the country is under severe threat from Sunni-based Islamic extremists.
这也说明了成立新政府的紧迫性，目前伊拉克国内的宗派紧张局势非常严峻，包括逊尼派教徒及库尔德人在内的美国和伊朗的盟友提出要求，与此同时，伊拉克正面临来自逊尼派伊斯兰极端分子的严重威胁。
“Our candidates for prime minister are Adel Abdul Mahdi or Ahmad Chalabi,” said Hakim al-Zamili, a prominent leader in the parliamentary bloc of the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, which in turn is part of the National Alliance, a coalition of all Shiite groups.
什叶派神职人员穆克塔达·萨德尔(Moktada al-Sadr)领导的议会阵营中的主要领袖哈基姆·泽米利(Hakim al-Zamili)说，“我们的总理候选人是阿德尔·阿卜杜勒·迈赫迪(Adel Abdul Mahdi)或艾哈迈德·沙拉比。” 该阵营是由所有什叶派组织组成的国家联盟(National Alliance)的一部分。
The alliance is trying to persuade the State of Law party of Mr. Maliki, also a Shiite, to stand aside for another Shiite. “If State of Law refuses to accept any other candidate, we will ally with the Kurds and the Sunnis to form a government,” said Mr. Zamili, who was accused of organizing death squads when he served as Iraq’s deputy health minister.
该联盟试图说服什叶派领导人马利基领导的法治国家联盟(State of Law)支持另一名什叶派候选人。泽米利表示，“如果法治国家联盟拒绝接受其他候选人，我们将联合库尔德人和逊尼派教徒，成立新政府。”有人指责泽米利在担任伊拉克卫生部副部长期间曾组织暗杀小组。
“You know, there is a saying in Arabic that when you have seen death, you don’t mind a high fever,” said one aide to Mr. Maliki who is among a growing number of Mr. Maliki’s own supporters hoping that he will bow out. The aide’s point was that almost anything was possible in the contorted state of Iraqi politics.
马利基的一名助手表示，“众所周知，阿拉伯语中有句谚语，如果你经历过死亡，你就不会在意发高烧。”越多越多支持马利基的人希望他辞职，这名助手就是其中之一。这名助手的看法是，在伊拉克扭曲的政治世界中，任何事情都有可能。
The normally garrulous Mr. Chalabi did not respond to requests to be interviewed for this article.
平时喋喋不休的沙拉比对本文的采访请求未予回应。
On the face of it, Mr. Chalabi as prime minister seems, at best, highly unlikely. His exile-based, C.I.A.-financed Iraqi National Congress never built much of a grass-roots following in Iraq, and he suffered from the Americans’ growing unpopularity as the war dragged on. His role in promoting what many now view as concocted evidence of weapons of mass destruction under Saddam Hussein badly tarnished him.
从表面上看，即便在最有利的条件下，沙拉比成为总理的可能性也极低。他在流亡期间成立的伊拉克国民大会党获得CIA的资助，该政党在伊拉克从未拥有很多草根拥护者，战火仍在延续，美国人越来越不受欢迎，沙拉比因此受到牵连。他提供证据证明伊拉克在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)时期拥有大规模杀伤性武器，此举致使他名声严重受损，如今，很多人认为这些证据都是捏造的。
Mr. Chalabi, 69, put skills honed during long years of exile in Washington as a communicator and back-room operator to good use, though, forging alliances with the Sadrists and their Iranian patrons, and also with Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the Shiites’ supreme religious leader.
69岁的沙拉比在华盛顿长期流亡期间，充当沟通人员和幕后操纵者，不断磨练能力。如今，他施展能力，与萨德尔派及其伊朗后台建立联盟，还与什叶派最高精神领袖阿亚图拉阿里·西斯塔尼(Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani)结盟。
Some argue that Mr. Chalabi is at best a long-shot candidate, but so is every Maliki opponent at this point. Mr. Maliki’s State of Law party gained the biggest number of seats in the April 30 election, and now claims 95, well short of the 165 needed to make a majority in the 328-seat Parliament. But Mr. Maliki has lost support from the powerful Shiite clerics who, like the Americans, have politely but clearly signaled they would prefer he step down.
一些人辩称，沙拉比最多算是一个希望渺茫的候选人，但此时马利基的对手们也无不如此。在4月30日举行的选举中，马利基领导的法治国家联盟赢得了最多席位，现在共有95个席位，但议会共有328个席位，它仍未达到取得多数地位所需的165个席位。然而马利基已经失去了权势强大的什叶派神职人员的支持，他们像美国人一样，委婉但明确的表明，他们希望马利基下台。
Replacing Mr. Maliki is one of the few things nearly all other politicians agree on — the other Shiite parties, as well as the Sunnis and Kurds and a host of tiny parties, which together could theoretically control as many as 233 seats in the Parliament.
几乎所有其他政治人士——其他什叶派政党、逊尼派教徒和库尔德人，以及很多小党派——都同意替换马利基，这种意见一致的情况非常少见。理论上，这些人一共可以掌控最多233个议会席位。
Mr. Maliki’s State of Law supporters say the arithmetic is all on the incumbent’s side, however, and scoff at suggestions any other candidate could replace him. “Even if other parties don’t attend the first session, the State of Law with other small parties joining it will have enough seats to form a government,” said a party leader, Alia Nussif.
法治国家联盟的支持者表示，大家都认为现任者将获胜，他们对其他候选人会替代他的说法不屑一顾。政党领袖阿利亚·努西夫(Alia Nussif)表示，“即便其他政党没有参加第一次会议，法治国家联盟和与其结盟的小党派也将获得足够多的席位，成立政府。”
Nevertheless, at least four State of Law political leaders have said they want to see Mr. Maliki leave for someone whom all Shiites could coalesce around and other groups would find acceptable. That could either be some other figure in his party or, more likely, someone from one of the other major Shiite parties, most likely the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq.
尽管如此，至少四名法治国家联盟的政治领袖表示，他们希望看到马利基下台，然后由一个能够使所有什叶派教徒联合起来、同时也能被其他组织所接受的人接任总理一职。新任总理可以来自马利基领导的政党，但更有可能来自其他主要什叶派政党，可能性最大的是伊拉克伊斯兰革命最高委员会 （Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq，简称ISCI）。
That is where Mr. Chalabi’s chance comes into play. 
这就是沙拉比有机会出任总理的原因。