When he was a presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump took a hard line against Saudi Arabia, criticizing its human rights record and slamming his opponent, Hillary Clinton, for the donations her family foundation received from the country.
还是总统候选人的时候，唐纳德·J·特朗普曾对沙特阿拉伯采取强硬立场，批评其人权记录，并抨击对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的家族基金会收取来自该国的捐款。
But as president, Mr. Trump has been more generous to Saudi Arabia, and newly published State Department records indicate that, in several dozen small but extravagant ways, it has been pretty nice to him, too.
然而，一旦成为总统，特朗普对沙特就变得宽容多了，而且据新近发布的国务院记录显示，沙特对他的友好，也以数十种数额不大但奢华的方式表现了出来。
The records published by The Daily Beast this week list more than 80 gifts that Saudi Arabia gave Mr. Trump when he visited in May, some of which evoke both Indiana Jones and Liberace. (“Orange traditional shirt with silver floral embroidery and leather ammo holder and holster” is one entry.)
本周，由Daily Beast网站发布的记录列出了特朗普于5月访问沙特阿拉伯期间，该国赠送他的80多份礼物，其中有些肯定很合印第安纳·琼斯(Indiana Jones)和李伯拉斯(Liberace)的口味。（礼品单中有一项是“银线花朵刺绣橙色传统衬衫、皮革子弹带与枪套”。）
Other eye-catching gifts include a sword, a copy of the Kuwaiti Constitution, a “sleeveless white silk cotton garment” and two robes lined with the fur of white tigers. Mr. Trump also received a portrait of himself and three chiffon dresses: one yellow, one pale pink and one yellow and turquoise.
其他引人注目的礼物包括一柄剑、一份科威特宪法的副本，一件“白色无袖丝棉服”和两件有白虎皮衬里的长袍。特朗普还收到了一幅自己的肖像，以及三条雪纺连衣裙：一件黄色、一件淡粉色，还有一件是黄色和青绿色相间。
It is unclear whether Mr. Trump gave similar luxury items to his Saudi hosts, who also posted the president’s face on billboards in the capital and arranged a summit meeting of Muslim leaders and a concert by the American country singer Toby Keith. But Mr. Trump did give Saudi Arabia something it wanted: tough talk on Iran, its regional rival, and a $110 billion arms deal that includes $500 million in precision-guided munitions.
沙特东道主还在首都的广告牌上张贴了总统头像，为他安排了同穆斯林领导人的首脑会议，还有美国乡村歌手托比·基思(Toby Keith)的演唱会。特朗普是否也向主人赠送了类似奢侈品作为礼物，目前不得而知。但是他确实送出了沙特阿拉伯想要的东西：他严厉指责该国的区域竞争对手伊朗，并与沙特达成了一项价值1100亿美元的军火交易，其中包括价值5亿美元的精准制导武器。
Many of the gifts from Saudi Arabia drew interest online because of their opulence and — to an American audience — their oddity. Arms deals and summit meetings are familiar tools of statecraft, but an orange and gold robe lined with cheetah fur?
沙特阿拉伯赠送的诸多礼物因其华丽吸引了网民的兴趣，而且对于美国人来说，它们显得稀奇古怪。武器交易和首脑会议是国家交往的常见方式，不过猎豹皮衬里的橙金色长袍又是怎么回事？
There is nothing unusual about diplomatic gift-giving, said James B. Smith, a dean at Southern New Hampshire University who served as United States ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 2009 to 2013. In his experience, the State Department rarely gave gifts. But some Middle Eastern governments can be “very, very generous,” he said.
美国南新罕布什尔大学(Southern New Hampshire University)的系主任詹姆斯·B·史密斯(James B. Smith)曾于2009年至2013年担任美国驻沙特阿拉伯大使，他认为，这种外交赠礼没有什么特别之处。根据他的经验，国务院很少赠送礼物。但是一些中东政府可能会“非常非常慷慨，”他说。
“The royal court is given to giving gifts,” he said. “So the fact that there is a long list of gifts that the president may have received does not strike me as surprising at all.”
“王室有赠送礼物的嗜好，”他说。“所以总统可能会收到一大堆礼物，这种事并不令我惊讶。”
American officials may keep gifts from foreign officials that are valued at less than $390, but anything worth more is turned over to the government. Gifts given to the president, the vice president or their spouses are handled by the White House, which did not respond to an email seeking comment on Tuesday.
美国官员可以保留外国官员赠送的价值低于390美元的礼物，超过这一标准的东西则需上交政府。送给总统、副总统及其配偶的礼物均由白宫处理，白宫没有回应周二通过电子邮件发送的置评请求。
Gifts given to lower-level officials, like ambassadors, are handled by the State Department. If an official would like to keep a gift, the State Department will appraise it and offer to sell it to the official, Mr. Smith said.
总统及副总统以下，赠送给大使等级别官员的礼物由国务院处理。史密斯说，如果某位官员想要保留礼物，国务院将对其进行估价，并可将其出售给这位官员。
Mr. Trump is not the first president to receive expensive presents from a foreign leader. State Department records from 2015 show that the Saudi government gave more than two dozen gifts to United States officials, including President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle.
特朗普不是第一位接受外国领导人昂贵礼物的总统。国务院自2015年起的记录显示，沙特政府向包括奥巴马总统及其妻子米歇尔在内的美国官员赠送了二十多份礼物。
The most expensive Saudi gift Mr. Obama received then was a package that included 10 golf clubs, a leather golf bag and a gold-plated sterling silver sculpture of two horses that was covered in diamonds, tsavorites, yellow sapphires, rubies and obsidian. The State Department appraised that gift package, which records show was sent to the National Archives, at $522,972.
奥巴马从沙特阿拉伯收到的礼物之中，最昂贵的物品是一同赠送的10根高尔夫球杆，一个皮革高尔夫球包，以及两尊精美的包金纯银马，上面镶满了钻石、沙弗莱石、黄色蓝宝石、红宝石和黑曜石。记录显示，这批礼品已被送入国家档案馆，国务院给出估价为522972美元。