Along with a billion Muslims across the globe, I turn to Mecca in Saudi Arabia every day to say my prayers. But when I visit the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, the resting place of the Prophet Muhammad, I am forced to leave overwhelmed with anguish at the power of extremism running amok in Islam’s birthplace. Non-Muslims are forbidden to enter this part of the kingdom, so there is no international scrutiny of the ideas and practices that affect the 13 million Muslims who visit each year.
每天，我会和全球10亿穆斯林一起，朝着沙特阿拉伯的麦加方向祷告。但在我去圣城麦加和先知穆罕默德的安息地麦地那时，我却满怀痛苦地被迫离开。让我痛苦的，是在伊斯兰教发源地肆虐的极端主义势力。非穆斯林被禁止进入沙特王国的这片地区，因此，影响着每年前往朝拜的1300万穆斯林的观点和作法，不可能得到国际社会的审视。
Last week, Saudi Arabia donated $100 million to the United Nations to fund a counterterrorism agency. This was a welcome contribution, but last year, Saudi Arabia rejected a rotating seat on the United Nations Security Council. This half-in, half-out posture of the Saudi kingdom is a reflection of its inner paralysis in dealing with Sunni Islamist radicalism: It wants to stop violence, but will not address the Salafism that helps justify it.
上周，沙特阿拉伯向联合国捐款1亿美元（约合6亿元人民币），资助一个反恐机构。这是一笔受欢迎的捐赠，但去年，沙特阿拉伯拒绝了联合国安全理事会(United Nations Security Council)轮值理事国席位。沙特王国这种半参与、半拒绝的姿态，反映了该国在应对逊尼派伊斯兰激进主义问题上处于一种内在的瘫痪状态：希望结束暴力，却又不去面对激进者引以为据的萨拉菲主义。
Let’s be clear: Al Qaeda, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, Boko Haram, the Shabab and others are all violent Sunni Salafi groupings. For five decades, Saudi Arabia has been the official sponsor of Sunni Salafism across the globe.
我们得明确一点，基地组织(Al Qaeda) 、伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）、博科圣地(Boko Haram)、青年党(Shabab)等都是暴力的逊尼派萨拉菲组织。50年来，沙特阿拉伯一直是全球逊尼派萨拉菲主义的官方赞助者。
Most Sunni Muslims around the world, approximately 90 percent of the Muslim population, are not Salafis. Salafism is seen as too rigid, too literalist, too detached from mainstream Islam. While Shiite and other denominations account for 10 percent of the total, Salafi adherents and other fundamentalists represent 3 percent of the world’s Muslims.
全世界穆斯林人口约有90%属于逊尼派，他们大部分不是萨拉菲派。萨拉菲主义被认为过于严格、拘泥于字面意思、偏离主流伊斯兰教。什叶派和其他宗派只占全球穆斯林总人数的10%，而萨拉菲信徒和其他原教旨主义者则占了全世界穆斯林的3%。
Unlike a majority of Sunnis, Salafis are evangelicals who wish to convert Muslims and others to their “purer” form of Islam — unpolluted, as they see it, by modernity. In this effort, they have been lavishly supported by the Saudi government, which has appointed emissaries to its embassies in Muslim countries who proselytize for Salafism. The kingdom also grants compliant imams V.I.P. access for the annual hajj, and bankrolls ultraconservative Islamic organizations like the Muslim World League and World Assembly of Muslim Youth.
不同于大部分逊尼派，萨拉菲派是伊斯兰教的“福音派”，希望穆斯林和其他人改信他们那种“更纯正”的宗教。他们认为，自己信奉的伊斯兰教没有受到现代性的污染。在这样做的过程中，他们得到了沙特政府的大力支持。沙特政府任命使者前往其驻穆斯林国家的大使馆任职，这些使者会劝说他人改信萨拉菲主义。沙特王国还允许顺从的伊玛目以要人的身份参与一年一度的麦加朝圣，并为穆斯林世界联盟(Muslim World League)和世界穆斯林青年大会(World Assembly of Muslim Youth)等极端保守的组织提供资金。
After 9/11, under American pressure, much of this global financial support dried up, but the bastion of Salafism remains strong in the kingdom, enforcing the hard-line application of outdated Shariah punishments long abandoned by a majority of Muslims. Just since Aug. 4, 19 people have been beheaded in Saudi Arabia, nearly half for nonviolent crimes.
9·11后，在美国的压力下，这种全球性的资金扶持来源有相当一部分已经枯竭，但在沙特王国，萨拉菲主义的堡垒依然很牢固，强硬地实行着过时的伊斯兰教法惩罚措施，而这些惩罚措施早已被大部分穆斯林摒弃。仅自8月4日以来，沙特阿拉伯就有19人被斩首，近一半人是因为非暴力的罪行。
We are rightly outraged at the beheading of James Foley by Islamist militants, and by ISIS’ other atrocities, but we overlook the public executions by beheading permitted by Saudi Arabia. By licensing such barbarity, the kingdom normalizes and indirectly encourages such punishments elsewhere. When the country that does so is the birthplace of Islam, that message resonates.
我们理应对伊斯兰激进分子斩首詹姆斯·福利(James Foley )，以及ISIS的其他罪行感到义愤填膺，但我们忽略了沙特阿拉伯允许的公开斩首处决。一旦这样的暴行得到沙特王国的授权，其他地方也将它当成了常态，并形成了间接的激励。当这么做的国家是伊斯兰教的发源地时，它释放的信号是很强烈的。
I lived in Saudi Arabia’s most liberal city, Jidda, in 2005. That year, in an effort to open closed Saudi Salafi minds, King Abdullah supported dialogue with people of other religions. In my mosque, the cleric used his Friday Prayer sermon to prohibit such dialogue on grounds that it put Islam on a par with “false religions.” It was a slippery slope to freedom, democracy and gender equality, he argued — corrupt practices of the infidel West.
2005年我住在沙特阿拉伯最开明的城市吉达。那一年，为了让封闭的沙特萨拉菲派思想开放起来，阿卜杜拉国王支持同信奉其他宗教的人进行对话。在我去的那间清真寺，神职人员利用周五的祷告布道活动，以这种对话将伊斯兰教与“假宗教”相提并论为由，禁止进行这种对话。他说，这是滑向自由、民主和性别平等的斜坡，是西方异教徒的堕落作法。
This tension between the king and Salafi clerics is at the heart of Saudi Arabia’s inability to reform. The king is a modernizer, but he and his advisers do not wish to disturb the 270-year-old tribal pact between the House of Saud and the founder of Wahhabism (an austere form of Islam close to Salafism). That 1744 desert treaty must now be nullified.
国王与萨拉菲派神职人员的矛盾是沙特阿拉伯无法进行改革的关键因素。国王推崇现代化，但他与他的顾问又不希望打破沙特王室与瓦哈比派（一种朴素的伊斯兰教形式，与萨拉菲派类似）创始人之间延续了270年的部落协议。这个1744年的沙漠条约现在必须被废止。
The influence that clerics wield is unrivaled. Even Saudis’ Twitter heroes are religious figures: An extremist cleric like Muhammad al-Arifi, who was banned last year from the European Union for advocating wife-beating and hatred of Jews, commands a following of 9. 4 million. The kingdom is also patrolled by a religious police force that enforces the veil for women, prohibits young lovers from meeting and ensures that shops do not display “indecent” magazine covers. In the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, the religious police beat women with sticks if they stray into male-only areas, or if their dress is considered immodest by Salafi standards. This is not an Islam that the Prophet Muhammad would recognize.
神职人员的影响力是无与伦比的。甚至连沙特人气最旺的Twitter账号都属于宗教人物：比如穆罕默德·阿里菲(Muhammad al-Arifi)这样的极端主义神职人员。去年，他因为宣扬殴打妻子和对犹太人的憎恨而被封号。他的关注者有940万。沙特王国还有一支宗教警察部队，他们的作用就是确保女性戴面纱、禁止年轻情侣见面，并保证商店不展示“下流的”杂志封面。在麦加和麦地那这两座圣城，如果女性不小心进入只允许男性进入的区域，或者她们的裙子不符合萨拉菲派的庄重标准，宗教警察就会用鞭子抽打她们。先知穆罕默德绝不会认可这种伊斯兰教。
Salafi intolerance has led to the destruction of Islamic heritage in Mecca and Medina. If ISIS is detonating shrines, it learned to do so from the precedent set in 1925 by the House of Saud with the Wahhabi-inspired demolition of 1,400-year-old tombs in the Jannat Al Baqi cemetery in Medina. In the last two years, violent Salafis have carried out similar sectarian vandalism, blowing up shrines from Libya to Pakistan, from Mali to Iraq. Fighters from Hezbollah have even entered Syria to protect holy sites.
萨拉菲派的不包容政策导致麦加和麦地那的伊斯兰传统遭到破坏。ISIS现在正在轰炸神殿，但那也是从1925年的先例中学来的——当时，在瓦哈比派的授意下，沙特王室摧毁了麦地那加纳特·巴奇(Jannat Al-Baqi)公墓一座拥有1400年历史的坟墓。过去两年，残暴的萨拉菲派也在实施同样的宗派破坏，他们炸毁了从利比亚到巴基斯坦、从马里到伊拉克的神殿。真主党(Hezbollah)武装人员甚至还会进入叙利亚保护圣地。
Textbooks in Saudi Arabia’s schools and universities teach this brand of Islam. The University of Medina recruits students from around the world, trains them in the bigotry of Salafism and sends them to Muslim communities in places like the Balkans, Africa, Indonesia, Bangladesh and Egypt, where these Saudi-trained hard-liners work to eradicate the local, harmonious forms of Islam.
沙特的学校和大学里的教科书也会教授这个派别的伊斯兰教义。麦地那大学(University of Medina)从世界各地招生，然后用偏执的萨拉菲主义教导这些学生，随后再把他们送往巴尔干半岛、非洲、印尼、孟加拉国和埃及等地的穆斯林社区，于是这些曾在沙特受训的强硬派就会前去根除当地温和的伊斯兰教派。