BEIRUT, Lebanon — Job seekers in Saudi Arabia who have a strong constitution and endorse strict Islamic law might consider new opportunities carrying out public beheadings and amputating the hands of convicted thieves.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——在沙特阿拉伯，拥有强健体魄、赞同推行严格的伊斯兰法的求职者，或许可以考虑新的工作机会：充当行刑者，当众斩下死刑犯的首级，砍掉盗窃犯的手。
The eight positions, as advertised on the website of the Ministry of Civil Service, require no specific skills or educational background for “carrying out the death sentence according to Islamic Shariah after it is ordered by a legal ruling.” But given the grisly nature of the job, a scarcity of qualified swordsmen in some regions of the country and a rise in the frequency of executions, candidates might face a heavy workload.
登在内政部(Ministry of Civil Service)网站上的招聘信息显示，“根据伊斯兰教法(Shariah)对按律当斩者执行死刑”的职位共有8个空缺，应聘者无需具有专业技能或者教育背景。但考虑到该工作的性质十分可怕、合格的行刑者在沙特的某些地区颇为稀缺、处决人犯的频率有所上升等因素，求职者可能会面临繁重的工作负担。
Saudi Arabia’s justice system punishes drug dealing, arms smuggling, murder and other violent crimes with death, usually by beheading in a public square.
按照沙特的司法制度，贩毒、走私军火、谋杀以及其他暴力犯罪都是死罪，人犯通常会在公共广场遭到斩首。
Although the law also mandates that thieves in some cases have their hands cut off, that punishment is rarely carried out because judges consider it distasteful, according to Saudi lawyers.
沙特的一些律师称，尽管伊斯兰教法还规定，在某些情况下可以斩下窃贼的手，但很少有人受到此类处罚，因为法官认为这种事令人反感。
On Sunday, Saudi Arabia beheaded a man for a drug offense, making him the 85th person to be executed this year, according to a count by Human Rights Watch based on Saudi government statements. That is almost as many people executed all of last year, when 88 people were beheaded. Thirty-eight of this year’s executions, including the one carried out on Sunday, have been for drug-related crimes with no allegations of violence, according to Adam Coogle, a researcher with Human Rights Watch.
周日，一名贩毒的男子被沙特当局斩首。根据人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)基于沙特政府的声明做出的统计，算上他，今年以来共有85人被处决。这几乎相当于去年全年被处决的总人数——88人。人权观察组织的研究员亚当·库格勒(Adam Coogle)称，包括该名男子在内，今年以来共有38个卷入毒品犯罪，但并未受到暴力犯罪指控的人犯被处决。
In the United States, 35 prisoners were executed in 2014.
在美国，2014年共有35名人犯被处决。
Saudi officials have not commented on the increased pace of beheadings, which Saudi leaders often describe as the best way to deter crime.
沙特官员尚未就被斩首者越来越多的现象置评。沙特领导人通常认为，斩首是震慑犯罪行为的最佳手段。
The call for executioners comes four months after King Salman, who has moved quickly to reorganize the government and promote a younger generation of officials, ascended to the throne.
招聘行刑者的广告出现在萨勒曼国王(King Salman)即位4个月之后。他迅速地重组政府，提拔了一批较为年轻的官员。
So far, the king has not indicated any intention to reform the judicial sector, where deeply conservative judges have great power to define crimes and set punishments.
到目前为止，萨勒曼国王尚未透露出任何改革司法部门的意向。该部门中极为保守的法官在界定罪名、设置刑罚方面享有很大权力。
Analysts have speculated that the Saudi government is trying to send a message that it is tough on crime at a time when political chaos has consumed neighboring Arab countries.
分析人士猜测，在周边阿拉伯国家为政治乱象所累之际，沙特政府试图让人明白，它会严厉打击犯罪行为。
Diplomats cited by Reuters have said that the rise in executions this year might be the result of new judicial appointments that have allowed a backlog of appeal cases to be decided.
路透社(Reuters)援引外交官的话称，今年以来被处决的人数增多，可能是因为新的司法任命加快了积压已久的上诉案件的裁决进程。
The job openings posted on Monday did not specify relevant experience, training or a preferred educational background required for the job, nor was the salary indicated.
周一登出来的招聘信息并未特别要求应聘者具有相关经验、受过培训或者拥有特定的教育背景，也没透露薪水是多少。
In some Saudi Arabia provinces, the job of swordsman is passed down from father to son.
在沙特阿拉伯的某些省份，刽子手的职业是父子世代相传的。