AL MUKALLA, Yemen — Warplanes of the Saudi-led military coalition bombed targets in the Yemeni capital on Sunday for the first time since Saudi officials said they were shifting the focus of their campaign against a Yemeni rebel group toward political negotiations and humanitarian relief.
也门穆卡拉——沙特为首的军事同盟的战机在周日轰炸了也门首都，这是自沙特官方宣布，将把对也门叛乱组织的行动重点转向政治对话和人道援助以来，该同盟发起的首次空袭。
Also on Sunday, at least seven people were killed and dozens wounded in escalating violence in the southern city of Taiz, which was emerging as the latest lethal flash point in Yemen’s civil war.
同样在周日，暴力冲突日益升级的南部城市塔伊兹(Taiz)有至少七人丧生，数十人受伤，已然成为也门内战中一个新的冲突点。
In addition to the bombings in Sana, the capital, which struck a military base and the presidential palace, the coalition carried out airstrikes in several other provinces, suggesting a broadening, rather than a scaling back, of the monthlong Saudi air offensive against Houthi rebels.
阿拉伯军事同盟轰炸了首都萨那的总统府以及一处军事基地，此外在其他省份也发动了空袭，这表明一个月来对胡塞叛乱组织的空中打击非但不会减弱，反而在扩大范围。
Despite vague talk of negotiations last week, there was little sign that any of the combatants in Yemen’s conflict were preparing to halt the fighting. Rather, the violence heightened in recent days as it became more apparent that the warring parties were locked in a standoff, with the Saudis insisting that the Houthis retreat and the Houthis demanding an unconditional end to the airstrikes.
尽管上周就谈判有过一些含糊的表示，也门冲突双方的作战人员似乎都没有停战的打算。近日的冲突加剧反而愈发清晰地说明，敌对双方已经陷入僵持，沙特要求胡塞武装必须撤离，而胡塞则要求无条件停止空袭。
Saudi Arabia said the military operation was intended to shake the grip of the Houthis on crucial Yemeni cities and to restore the government of President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, who was forced from power and into exile, by the Houthis this year.
沙特方面称，军事行动是为了动摇胡塞武装对也门重要城市的控制，还要恢复总统阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi)的政府，后者今年被胡塞武装赶下台，正在流亡中。
But the air campaign has killed scores of civilians and earned derision from critics in Yemen and abroad who have called it strategically incoherent for failing to either dislodge the Houthis and their allies or to force them to negotiate.
但是，空袭行动误杀了许多平民，因而遭受到来自也门以及国际社会批评人士的谴责，他们认为行动在战略上不知所谓，既没有逼退胡塞武装及其支持者，亦无法迫使其进行谈判。
Nonetheless, Saudi officials asserted last week that the campaign, which they called Operation Decisive Storm, had achieved its objectives and that they would shift from military operations to a political process. But on Sunday, a senior Yemeni official, Riyadh Yaseen, who serves as the foreign minister for the Saudi-backed exiled government, said the first operation had “not ended.”
上周，沙特方面称“果断风暴行动”(Operation Decisive Storm)达到了目的，并表示将由军事行动转向政治进程。但在周日，也门高级官员、在沙特支持的流亡政府中担任外交部长的里雅得·亚辛(Riyadh Yaseen)称最初的行动“仍未结束”。
“There will be no deal with the Houthis whatsoever until they withdraw from areas under their control,” Mr. Yaseen said, speaking in London, according to Reuters.
据路透社(Reuters)报道，身在伦敦的亚辛说，“在胡塞人从他们控制的区域撤出前，我们是不会和谈的。”
More than 1,000 people have been killed over the past month, including at least 500 civilians, according to the United Nations. Hundreds of people have been killed in Aden, Yemen’s second largest city, which has been devastated by factional street fighting for more than a month.
据联合国统计，上个月有超过1000人在冲突中丧生，其中至少包括500名平民。在也门第二大城市亚丁也有数百人死亡，各派的巷战已经持续一月有余，令当地备受摧残。
There are growing fears that Taiz, a densely populated city northwest of Aden, is suffering the same fate as clashes there intensify. The city has already experienced severe shortages of fuel and food, residents said.
人们越来越担心，紧张局势正在升级的塔伊兹也会遭受与亚丁同样的命运。塔伊兹位于亚丁西北部，人口稠密。当地居民说，塔伊兹目前已经出现严重的燃料和食物短缺。
As in Aden, local forces were fighting against an alliance of the Houthis and heavily armed security units loyal to Ali Abdullah Saleh, Yemen’s former autocratic president.
和在亚丁一样，胡塞武装与效忠前也门独裁总统阿里·阿卜杜拉·萨利赫(Ali Abdullah Saleh)的强大部队组成的联军，在那里与当地武装发生战斗。
Taiz was a focal point of the nationwide uprising against Mr. Saleh in 2011 that led to a deal brokered by Persian Gulf nations that removed him from power. Residents said the local militias opposing the Houthi and Saleh forces now include many young people who participated in the protests four years ago.
2011年全国爆发反萨利赫运动时，塔伊兹是冲突焦点之一。最终海湾国家从中调停，达成了让萨利赫下台的协议。当地居民称，反胡塞和萨利赫的当地民兵中，有许多年轻人曾参与四年前的抗议活动。
A prominent, longtime opponent of Mr. Saleh, Sheik Hamoud Saeed al-Mikhlafi, was said to be leading the opposition to Mr. Saleh’s forces in Taiz.
据悉，著名的萨利赫反对者谢赫哈默德·萨义德·米克拉菲(Sheik Hammoud Saeed al-Mikhlafi)正在塔伊兹领导对萨利赫军的作战。
As they meet fierce resistance in the city, the Houthis and their allies have been accused by residents of deploying deadly and frequently indiscriminate force. Witnesses said that on Sunday, the Houthis unleashed barrages of mortar shells that struck at least one hospital.
当地居民指称，由于遭到激烈抵抗，胡塞武装及其盟友频频使用致命的、对目标不加区分的作战手段。有目击者称，胡塞武装在周日对至少一家医院发射了多枚迫击炮弹。