PARIS — The brazen robbery had all the elements of a Hollywood thriller: a commando-style ambush, a suitcase stuffed with cash, mysterious stolen documents, and an anonymous member of the Saudi royal family heading to the airport.
巴黎——这桩肆无忌惮的抢劫案具备了一部好莱坞惊悚片的各种元素：突击队式的伏击、塞满现金的手提箱、神秘文件被盗，还有一名正在赶往机场的匿名沙特王室成员。
It was a quiet Sunday evening, sometime after 5 p.m., when the Saudi royal, whom the authorities would not identify, left the Four Seasons Hotel George V, one of the French capital’s most sumptuous hotels, where a “Première Room” costs nearly $2,200 a night. He left for Le Bourget Airport north of Paris, where captains of industry and visiting royalty park their private jets.
这是一个宁静的周日傍晚。大约在5点过后，这位沙特王室成员离开乔治五世四季酒店，前往巴黎北部的勒布尔热机场。乔治五世四季酒店是这座城市最奢华的宾馆之一，在“尊贵客房”住一晚的价格接近2200美元（约合1.3万元人民币）。勒布尔热机场则是商界巨头和来访的王室成员停放私人飞机的地方。
The Saudi royal was traveling as Saudi royalty often do, in a convoy, led by a Mercedes minivan. Inside one of the dozen cars was a suitcase stuffed with 250,000 euros, about $335,000.
沙特王室成员出行时经常伴有车队，这一位也不例外。在他的车队最前面，是一辆奔驰面包车。在车队的十几辆车中，有一辆里放了一只旅行箱，里面装了25万欧元的现金，大约33.5万美元（约合123万元人民币）。
No one has said why the Saudi royal was traveling with so much cash, though wealthy Arabs have been known to pay in cash while shopping at vaunted boutiques in Paris such as Cartier or Valentino.
尚不清楚这名王室成员在旅行中为何携带这么多现金，不过，富有的阿拉伯人在巴黎的卡地亚(Cartier )和华伦天奴(Valentino)等奢侈品店购物时喜欢支付现金，这是出了名的。
But clearly, the authorities said, someone knew the money was there. Eight masked gunmen driving in two BMWs swooped down on the convoy sometime between 5 and 8 p.m., the police said, and forced the lead car to stop.
当局称，不过这次，明显有人知道车里有现金。在5点到8点之间的某个时间点，八名蒙面持枪者驾驶着两辆宝马突然出现在车队前，迫使领头的车辆停下。
Within seconds, and without firing a shot, they drove away with the suitcase filled with cash and, according to French media reports, official embassy documents.
根据法国的媒体报道和使馆的官方文件，在几十秒钟的时间里，他们就开走了载有那个手提箱的那辆车，没费一枪一弹。
“The assailants blocked the car with two vehicles and asked the occupiers to get out of the car,” said Denis Fauriat, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office in Paris. “Then, they took the car and drove away. It took them a few dozen seconds to do that.” He said that a member of the Saudi royal family was part of the convoy.
“袭击者用两辆车挡住了那辆车，要求里面的人离开，”巴黎检察官办公室的发言人德尼·福里亚(Denis Fauriat)说。“随后，他们就把车开走了。总共花了几十秒的时间。”他证实，车队里有一名沙特王室成员。 
Mr. Fauriat said he believed that the attack was a robbery led by “criminals who seemed to know that there was money to steal, and eventually knew in which car they would find it.”
福里亚说，他认为，在这起抢劫案中，“犯罪分子似乎知道车上有钱，而且最终知道在哪辆车上可以找到这些现金”。
The robbery took place near Porte de la Chapelle, prosecutors said, a working class, immigrant neighborhood in the northern periphery of the French capital.
检方透露，事件发生在拉夏贝尔门附近。这是一个工薪阶层居住的移民社区，位于巴黎北部郊区。
The French news media reported that the thieves took control of the Mercedes, eventually releasing the driver, an official and a bodyguard on the side of the road. The police initially said the thieves wielded Kalashnikov rifles, but later said they were carrying handguns. The Mercedes was later found abandoned and burned, the police said, its charred remains discovered near a wooded area, along with one of the gang’s burned BMWs.
法国新闻媒体报道，劫匪控制了这辆奔驰，最终在路旁将司机、一名官员以及一名保镖释放。警方最初表示，劫匪使用的是卡拉什尼科夫步枪，但后来又改称是手枪。这辆奔驰后来被发现遭到了遗弃和焚烧。警方称，他们在一片树林附近发现了烧焦的汽车残骸，以及同样被烧毁的劫匪的一辆宝马车。
Prosecutors are investigating whether the robbery was an inside job, as the gunmen appeared to know the convoy’s route. The French police have opened an investigation into “armed theft by an organized gang,” but there have been no arrests.
检方正在调查这起抢劫案是否属于内部人员作案，因为持枪歹徒似乎知道车队的路线。法国警方已就“有组织的犯罪团伙持枪偷窃事件”展开调查，但还没有拘捕任何人。
“The robbers were experienced, well organized,” said Nicolas Comte, a police officer and secretary general of Unité SGP Force Ouvrière, a leading police union. “They did it with self-control and equipment, without committing any mistake. We can imagine that they knew that a large amount of money was being carried, and that perhaps people in the convoy knew some of the robbers.”
“盗贼经验丰富、组织有序，”主要警察组织SGP-FO警察联盟工会(Unité SGP Force Ouvrière)的秘书长、尼古拉·科姆特警官(Nicolas Comte)说。“他们纪律严明、装备精良，没有犯任何错。我们可以想象，他们知道车上有大量现金，或许车队中有人认识其中一些劫匪。”
The police did not reveal the names of the victims. In a statement published on the S.P.A., the state news agency of Saudi Arabia, the Saudi Embassy in Paris said that the stolen car was a Mercedes Viano with German plates and rented by a Saudi citizen, “who was heading for the airport with his luggage.”
警方没有透露受害者的姓名。沙特驻巴黎大使馆通过该国官方新闻机构沙特通讯社(SPA)发表声明称，被盗车辆是一辆带有德国车牌的奔驰唯雅诺，由一名“携带行李前往机场”的沙特公民租用。
“On the way, the driver was forced to get out the car,” the statement said. “The luggage and car were stolen.”
“在途中，司机被迫下车，”声明称。“行李和车均被盗走。”
On the official Facebook page of the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a statement was also issued denying reports by the French police and news media that a car belonging to the Saudi Embassy had been attacked on the way to the airport, “where money and sensitive documents were stolen.” Such reports, the statement said, “are not true at all.” The statement also quoted one delivered by the embassy saying that it was cooperating with the French authorities.
沙特阿拉伯外交部在其Facebook官方网页上发表声明，否认法国警方及新闻媒体的相关报道，即沙特大使馆拥有的一辆车在前往机场的途中遇袭，“现金和敏感文件被盗”。其中写道，“此类报道并不真实。”文中还援引了大使馆的声明，表示正在配合法国当局的工作。
The crime fit the pattern of other recent attacks in the French capital, law enforcement officials said, and Mr. Comte, the police officer, said the threat of violence and the element of surprise suggested that its perpetrators could be from Eastern Europe or the Balkans. In recent years, criminals from the former Yugoslavia, including globe-hopping jewel thieves known as the Pink Panthers, have snatched jewels worth hundreds of millions of dollars, from Dubai to Geneva to Paris, in swift “snatch and grab” attacks that usually take no more than three minutes.
执法官员称，此案与法国首都最近发生的其他一些案件类似。科姆特警官表示，暴力威胁及出其不意的行动似乎说明，作案者可能来自东欧或巴尔干地区。最近几年，来自前南斯拉夫地区的犯罪分子——包括在全球作案的珠宝大盗“粉红豹”(Pink Panthers)——已经盗窃了价值数亿美元的珠宝。从迪拜到日内瓦再到巴黎，他们一路迅速“偷拐抢骗”，行动通常不超过三分钟。