PARIS — Several Arab countries have offered to carry out airstrikes against militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, senior State Department officials said Sunday.
巴黎——美国国务院的高级官员周日称，多个阿拉伯国家表示，愿意对伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子展开空袭。
The offer was disclosed by American officials traveling with Secretary of State John Kerry, who is approaching the end of a weeklong trip that was intended to mobilize international support for the campaign against ISIS.
披露了阿拉伯国家上述意向的，是陪同国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)出访的美国官员。为了给美国对ISIS行动争取国际支持，克里进行了为期一周的出访，他的行程目前已接近尾声。
“There have been offers both to Centcom and to the Iraqis of Arab countries taking more aggressive kinetic action,” said one of the officials, who used the acronym for the United States Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East.
“阿拉伯国家向美国中央司令部和伊拉克都表达了采取更积极有力行动的意向，”一名官员说。美国中央司令部(United States Central Command)负责监管在中东的军事行动。
Mr. Kerry, who is in Paris to attend an international conference the French are hosting on Monday on providing aid to the new Iraqi government, has already visited Baghdad; Amman, Jordan; Jidda, Saudi Arabia; Ankara, Turkey; and Cairo.
克里目前正在巴黎，准备参加周一在那里举行的国际会议，讨论如何为伊拉克新任政府提供援助。克里此前曾到访巴格达；约旦的安曼；沙特阿拉伯的吉达；土耳其的安卡拉；以及开罗。
During Mr. Kerry’s stop in Jidda on Thursday, 10 Arab countries joined the United States in issuing a communiqué that endorsed efforts to confront and ultimately “destroy” ISIS, including military action to which nations would contribute “as appropriate.”
周四克里到访吉达期间，10个阿拉伯国家与美国共同发表了联合公报，支持对抗以及最终摧毁ISIS的行动，其中提到，各国将以“适当的方式”参与军事行动。
American officials said that the communiqué should be interpreted as meaning that some, but not all, of the 10 Arab countries would play a role in the military effort.
美国官员称，联合公报只是意味着，这10个国家中的某些国家愿意在军事行动中发挥作用，并不是全部。
The United States has a broad definition of what it would mean to contribute to the military campaign.
美国对在军事行动中“贡献力量”的定义十分宽泛。
“Providing arms could be contributing to the military campaign,” said a second State Department official. “Any sort of training activity would be contributing to the military campaign.”
“提供武器是参与军事行动，”另一名国务院官员说。“各种培训活动也是。”
Still, while the United States would clearly have the dominant role in an air campaign to roll back ISIS’s gains in Iraq, it is clear that other nations may also participate.
然而在伊拉克的ISIS空中打击行动中，虽然美国无疑将占据主导地位，其他国家显然也有望参与。
President François Hollande of France told Iraqi officials that his country would be willing to carry out airstrikes against ISIS in Iraq, senior Iraqi officials said.
伊拉克高级官员称，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)告诉伊拉克官员，法国将愿意在伊拉克对ISIS发动空袭。
“We need aerial support from our allies,” Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq said during a joint news conference with Mr. Hollande on Friday. “The French president promised me today that France will participate in this effort, hitting the positions of the terrorists in Iraq.”
“我们需要盟友的空中支持，”伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)周五在与奥朗德召开的联合新闻发布会上说。“法国总统今天向我承诺，法国将参与这项行动，打击恐怖分子在伊拉克的据点。”
Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia has also said that his country will join the air campaign and is sending as many as eight FA-18 attack planes, as well as an early warning aircraft and a refueling plane.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)同样表示，该国将加入空中行动，并将派遣多达八架FA-18强击机，以及一架预警机和一架加油机。
The Australian aircraft will operate from the United Arab Emirates. Australia is also sending 200 troops, including commandos, to serve as advisers to Iraqi soldiers and the Kurdish pesh merga forces.
澳大利亚的这些飞机将在阿联酋执行任务。澳大利亚还将派出200名包括突击队员在内的士兵，担任伊拉克士兵和库尔德敢死军(pesh merga)的顾问。
The State Department officials, who asked not to be identified under the agency’s protocol for briefing reporters, did not say which Arab nations had offered to carry out airstrikes, and there are also other ways Arab nations could participate in an air campaign against ISIS without dropping bombs, such as flying arms to Erbil in the Kurdistan region or Baghdad, conducting reconnaissance flights or providing logistical support and refueling. The officials said the Arab offers were under discussion.
国务院的官员没有说明有哪些阿拉伯国家表示愿意发动空袭，阿拉伯国家也可以通过其他方式参与空中行动，比如向库尔德斯坦地区的埃尔比勒或巴格达空运武器、执行侦查飞行，或提供后勤支持和燃料补给，不需要投下炸弹。官员们称，他们正在讨论阿拉伯国家的表态。由于机构有向记者披露信息的相关规定，这些国务院官员要求不具名。
“I don’t want to leave you with the impression that these Arab members haven’t offered to do airstrikes because several of them have,” said the first State Department official. “The Iraqis would have to be a major participant in that decision,” the official added. “It has to be well structured and organized.”
第一位国务院官员说，“我不想给大家留下这种印象，即阿拉伯国家没有主动要求参与空袭行动，因为有一些国家要求参与。”这名官员还表示，“伊拉克人必须是这一决定的重要决策者。必须充分安排、组织，做出决定。”
Iraqi officials have already offered some thoughts about what the next step should be. In recent weeks, the United States has focused its airstrikes on the defense of Erbil, securing the Mosul Dam and protecting the Haditha Dam.
伊拉克官员已经提出了一些有关下一步举措的想法。最近几周，美国开展空袭，集中力量保卫埃尔比勒，夺取摩苏尔坝(Mosul Dam)，保护哈迪塞水坝(Haditha Dam)。
But Mr. Abadi has asked the United States to take action on the Syrian side of the Iraqi-Syrian border to deprive ISIS of the safe havens it enjoys in that area. Massoud Barzani, the president of the Kurdish autonomous region, made a similar request in telephone call with Mr. Kerry on Saturday night, State Department officials said.
但阿巴迪要求美国在伊拉克-叙利亚边境线附近的叙利亚领土上开展行动，摧毁ISIS在该地区的安全庇护所。国务院官员表示，库尔德自治区主席马苏德·巴尔扎尼(Masoud Barzani)周六与克里通电话时做出了类似的请求。
“The Iraqis have asked for assistance in the border regions, and that’s something we’re looking at,” the first State Department official said.
第一位国务院官员说，“伊拉克人要求美国在边境地区进行援助，这是我们正在考虑的事情。”
Iraqi officials have long experience working with the United States military and appealed for American airstrikes against ISIS fighters in Iraq months before the Obama administration decided to conduct them.
伊拉克官员早就有与美国军队合作的经验，他们请求美国对伊拉克的ISIS作战人员进行空袭，几个月后，奥巴马政府决定开展空袭。
But the Shiite-dominated Iraqi government has no experience in working with militaries from Sunni states in the Persian Gulf.
但由什叶派主导的伊拉克政府没有与波斯湾逊尼派国家的军队合作的经验。
Regarding other military support, Saudi Arabia has agreed to provide bases for training moderate Syrian rebels. American officials say there have been similar efforts by other Arab countries, but declined to identify them.
至于其他军事支持，沙特阿拉伯已经同意提供基地，训练叙利亚温和派的叛乱分子。美国官员表示，其他阿拉伯国家也采取了类似举措，但他们拒绝详细说明哪些国家。
Iraq’s foreign minister announced on Sunday that the new Iraqi government had received a political lift when Saud al-Faisal, Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister, promised that his country would open an embassy in Baghdad. But no date for opening an embassy was given and the announcement noted that “security issues” would first need to be resolved.
伊拉克外交部长在周日宣称，沙特阿拉伯外交大臣沙特·费萨尔亲王(Saud Al-Faisal)承诺沙特将在巴格达开设大使馆，这在政治上对伊拉克是一种推动。但他没有说明开设大使馆的日期，指出首先需要解决“安全问题”。
But in a setback for the effort to portray the campaign as a partnership with Muslim-majority states rather than a Western intervention, an influential Muslim scholar on Sunday declared his opposition to the American action even though he said he was also against ISIS.
伊拉克努力将该行动描绘成与穆斯林占大多数的国家的合作，而不是西方干预举措，此番努力遭遇挫折，一名颇具影响力的穆斯林学者在周日宣称反对美国的行动，尽管他称自己也反对ISIS。