Saudi Arabia has emerged as the foremost supporter of Egypt’s military rulers, explicitly backing the violent crackdown on Islamists, using its oil wealth and diplomatic muscle to help defy growing pressure from the West to end the bloodshed in search of a political solution.
沙特阿拉伯已经成为埃及军方当权者最重要的支持者，该国公开支持埃及军方以暴力镇压伊斯兰派，还利用自身的石油财富和外交力量帮助埃及军方对抗来自西方国家日渐增加的压力。西方国家要求埃及停止流血镇压，寻求政治解决方案。
As Europeans and the United States considered cutting cash aid to Egypt, Saudi Arabia said Monday that it and its allies would make up any reduction — effectively neutralizing the West’s main leverage over Cairo. With Egypt’s economy in free fall, the country’s authorities might not have survived international outrage at a crackdown that has left as many as 1,000 dead and 4,000 wounded without the deep pockets of its Persian Gulf allies.
就在欧洲和美国考虑切断对埃及的现金援助之时，沙特阿拉伯于周一表示，它和它的盟友会补足任何减少的援助，此举有效地抵消了西方对埃及政府施加影响的主要方式。鉴于埃及经济一落千丈，如果没有波斯湾盟友慷慨解囊，面对国际社会对镇压行动的强烈愤慨，埃及当局可能无法继续维系。此次镇压行动导致多达1000人死亡、4000人受伤。
In recent days, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia has publicly condemned the Muslim Brotherhood, sent field hospitals to Egypt and in rare public comments vowed continued support. The foreign minister, Prince Saud Al-Faisal, traveled to Europe where he pushed back against efforts to punish Egypt’s rulers. And Saudi Arabia delivered a blank check to Cairo, promising to shower it with money as needed.
近些天，沙特阿拉伯国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)公开谴责了穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)，并向埃及派遣了野战医疗队，还罕见地公开发表评论，承诺要继续支持埃及当局。沙特阿拉伯外交大臣沙特·费萨尔亲王(Saud Al-Faisal)前往欧洲，在那里他击退了试图惩罚埃及当权者的种种努力。沙特阿拉伯还给埃及政府开出了一张空白支票，承诺会按照后者所需慷慨解囊。
“The kingdom stands with Egypt and against all those who try to interfere with its domestic affairs,” King Abdullah said Friday in a televised speech.
上周五，阿卜杜拉国王在一次电视讲话中表示，“沙特阿拉伯王国会和埃及并肩对抗所有试图干涉埃及内政的力量。”
Saudi Arabia, which itself is a close ally of Washington, has not only undermined Western efforts to press for compromise, but it has revealed diminished United States influence across the Arab world. The United States and Europe have been unable to persuade Cairo — or to convince Riyadh to press the generals toward moderation, as well.
沙特阿拉伯本身是美国的亲密盟友，它不仅破坏了西方迫使埃及妥协的努力，还暴露出美国在阿拉伯世界逐渐减少的影响力。美国和欧洲一直无法劝服埃及政府；也无法说服沙特阿拉伯政府向埃及将领们施压，让他们保持克制。
Saudi Arabia, which historically preferred to work its checkbook diplomacy from behind the scenes, jumped at the chance to help reverse a revolution that it opposed from the start.
历来乐于在幕后开展金钱外交的沙特阿拉伯，此次抓住了机会，帮助扭转了一场它从一开始就反对的革命。
The Saudis complained bitterly when President Hosni Mubarak, a longtime ally, was forced from power, and even more bitterly when the Muslim Brotherhood emerged as Egypt’s primary political force. And its leaders may have been comfortable with Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, who had served as the Egyptian government’s military attaché in Riyadh, according to the general’s official biography on the Egyptian military’s Web site.
当沙特阿拉伯的长期盟友、埃及总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)被赶下台时，沙特阿拉伯表达了强烈的不满，而当穆兄会成为埃及主要的政治势力时，他们的不满就更强烈了。根据埃及军方网站上刊登的阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)的正式履历，沙特阿拉伯的领导人也许一直与这位上将相处得颇为融洽。塞西曾担任埃及政府驻利雅德的武官。
“The Saudi monarchy is absolutely afraid of an Islamist-based democracy movement,” said Amanda E. Rogers, a lecturer in Arabic at Emory University in Atlanta and contributor to Muftah, a blog about the Middle East and North Africa.
亚特兰大埃默里大学(Emory University)阿拉伯语讲师阿曼达·E·罗杰斯(Amanda E. Rogers)说，“沙特王室绝对害怕一场以伊斯兰主义者为基础的民主运动。”罗杰斯是中东和北非时事博客Muftah的撰稿人。
The Saudis have long wielded their great wealth in regional causes. But even by Saudi standards, its efforts in Egypt stand out. Within a week of the Egyptian military’s July 3 takeover, they had announced a $12 billion rescue package that dwarfs direct military and economic grants from the United States ($1.5 billion) and the European Union ($1.3 billion) combined. The Gulf Arab’s deep pockets made the United States’ contribution seem important largely for its symbolism.
长期以来， 沙特阿拉伯一直在动用其巨大的财富插手地区事务。不过，即使是按照沙特阿拉伯的标准，其在埃及的所作所为都有些过于显眼。埃及军方于今年7月3日接管政权之后，沙特阿拉伯在一周内就宣布了一笔价值120亿美元（约合734.8亿元人民币）的一揽子救援计划。在这笔巨大援助面前，美国15亿美元和欧盟(European Union)13亿美元的军事援助及经济拨款加在一起，依然相形见绌。相比波斯湾阿拉伯国家雄厚的资金，美国的援助之所以显得重要，在很大程度上是因为其象征意义。
Within hours of the king’s speech on Friday, the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Faisal, was on his way to Paris, where he said the French president, François Hollande, supported the Egyptian generals’ road map. That seemed to contradict the statements of other European countries condemning the new government for failing to control the violence.
沙特国王于周五发表演讲后的几个小时，沙特外交大臣费萨尔亲王就启程前往巴黎，他在巴黎说，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)支持埃及将领们的路线图。这种说法似乎和其他欧洲国家发表的声明相悖，其他欧洲国家因埃及新政府未能抑制暴力活动而公开对它表达了谴责。
Back in Saudi Arabia by Monday, the prince boasted that France had come around to its point of view because of “truths and not assumptions.” It was unclear, however, if the French government shared that interpretation.
费萨尔亲王周一回到沙特阿拉伯，他吹嘘说，法国已经改变了看法，立场转变的原因在于“真相，而不是假想”。然而还不清楚，法国政府是否认同这样的解读。
“Concerning those who have announced stopping their assistance to Egypt or threatening to do stop them, the Arab and Islamic nation is rich with its people and capabilities and will lend a helping hand,” Prince Faisal said, in a statement carried on the Saudi Press Agency’s Web site.
费萨尔亲王在沙特通讯社(Saudi Press Agency)网站上刊出的一份声明中表示，“至于那些已经宣布停止援助埃及，或威胁停止援助的国家，阿拉伯和伊斯兰国家有充裕的人力和能力，会伸出援手。”
Saudi Arabia blamed the United States and other allies for failing to support Mr. Mubarak in 2011 when Egyptians took to the street provoking his ouster. But their criticism was mostly in private, and low-key. Even after the new government of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Morsi was elected, the kingdom responded quickly to keep the treasury solvent with a substantial $5 billion in aid.
2011年，埃及民众走上街头迫使穆巴拉克下台之时，沙特阿拉伯人责怪美国和其他盟国没能支持穆巴拉克。但他们的批评多数是在私下里发出，没有引起太多注意。甚至在穆兄会的穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)当选并成立新政府后，沙特阿拉伯仍然迅速作出反应，提供了50亿美元的巨额援助，以确保埃及财政不至于破产。
By July 10, one week after the military takeover, the Saudis had put together a package of aid totaling $12 billion, including $5 billion from the Kingdom, $3 billion from the United Arab Emirates and $2 billion from Kuwait.
到7月10日，埃及军方接管政权一周后，沙特阿拉伯已筹集到总额120亿美元的援助，其中50亿来自沙特阿拉伯、30亿来自阿拉伯联合酋长国、20亿来自科威特。
Unlike American aid, much of the Saudi assistance goes directly into Egyptian coffers with no strings attached. Much of it is cash transferred directly to the Egyptian Central Bank, with the rest grants of free or subsidized oil products, which frees an equivalent amount of money for Egypt to budget as it wishes.
和美国的援助不同的是，沙特阿拉伯的很多援助直接进入埃及国库，没有任何附带条件。很多援助都是现金，直接转入埃及中央银行(Egyptian Central Bank)，其余则是以免费或补贴的石油产品来进行补助，后者可以让埃及政府省出等额的资金，任意安排用途。
By contrast, American and European governments have insisted — often for legal reasons under their own laws — that aid is monitored and often channeled through nongovernmental relief groups.
对比之下，美国和欧洲国家的政府则一直坚持——通常是出于其国内法律的原因——援助必须受到监督，而且常常要通过非政府的救援组织发放。
Ordinary Egyptians have long had something of a love-hate relationship with Saudi Arabia. Some 1.5 million to 2 million Egyptian guest workers are employed there, but many come back soured by the experience.
长期以来，普通埃及人与沙特阿拉伯一直有一种爱恨交织的关系。大约有150万到200万埃及人作为客籍工人在沙特阿拉伯务工，但许多人回国时却对在那里的经历耿耿于怀。
Last year, rioting outside their Cairo embassy forced the Saudis to close it; protesters were angry at the decision to sentence an Egyptian human rights lawyer, Ahmed al-Gezawi, to prison and 300 lashes. The Saudis claim he was a drug smuggler; Mr. Gezawi’s supporters say his lawsuit against King Abdullah, challenging human rights violations against Egyptian guest workers, was the cause of the prosecution.
去年，沙特驻开罗使馆外发生骚乱，使馆被迫关闭。之前，一位埃及人权律师艾哈迈德·吉扎维(Ahmed al-Gezawi)在沙特被判处监禁和鞭笞300下，这一判决激怒了埃及的抗议者。沙特阿拉伯称他是毒贩，而吉扎维的支持者则认为，他被控的真正原因是起诉了阿卜杜拉国王。吉扎维曾指控，埃及籍务工人员的人权受到了侵犯。
Now, however, on the issue of financial aid, at least among the sizable anti-Muslim Brotherhood camp, there is plenty of applause for the Saudi stance. “I would lick the floor rather than take that aid from America,” said Mahmoud Salama, a businessman in Cairo and a recent returnee from Australia.
然而，如今在经济援助问题上，至少在人数众多的反穆兄会阵营中，有许多人赞赏沙特阿拉伯的立场。“我宁肯舔地板，也不愿接受美国的援助，”最近从澳大利亚回国的埃及商人马哈茂德·萨拉马(Mahmoud Salama)说。
“I don’t agree with many things in Saudi Arabia, but the Saudis know that Egypt is their back, their biggest neighbor, and that they should support us when we need support.”
“我对于沙特阿拉伯做的许多事都无法认同，但是沙特人知道埃及是他们的后盾，是他们最大的邻国，应该在我们需要的时候给予支持。”