RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — In elections that allowed Saudi women to vote and run for office for the first time, more than a dozen women won seats on local councils in different parts of the country, officials said on Sunday.
沙特阿拉伯利雅得——官方周日表示，在沙特阿拉伯举行的第一次允许女性参加投票和竞选公职的选举中，有十多名女性在不同地区的地方议会中赢得席位。
While the move was hailed by some as a new step into the public sphere by women in this religious and conservative monarchy, the local councils have limited powers and the new female members will make up less than 1 percent of the elected council members nationwide.
这一举动被一些人称赞为这个宗教色彩浓厚的保守君主制国家在允许女性参与公共事务方面进入新的阶段，但地方议会职权有限，而且女性将不超过全国范围内当选的议会成员的1%。
The participation of women in the vote was a milestone in a very gradual social shift for a country that deprives women of many basic rights, barring them from driving and from making many important decisions without the approval of a male relative.
沙特阿拉伯剥夺了女性的很多基本权利，禁止她们开车，也不允许她们在没有男性亲属许可情况下做出许多重大决定。在这样的国家进行的非常缓慢的社会变迁中，女性参与投票堪称一个里程碑。
Yet attitudes have shifted as more women have begun working outside the home and the kingdom’s youthful and well-connected population has become better acquainted with the rest of the world.
不过，随着有更多女性开始在外工作、该国出身良好的年轻人更加了解外面的世界，针对女性的这些态度在发生改变。
The previous Saudi monarch, King Abdullah, promised in 2011 to let women run and vote in local council elections and two years later added 30 women to the Shura Council, an appointed advisory body. His successor, Salman, has allowed those decisions to stand.
上任国王阿卜杜拉(King Abdullah)曾在2011年承诺，允许女性在地方议会选举中参与竞选和投票，并在两年后给委任的顾问机构舒拉议会(Shura Council)增加了30名女性成员。他的继任者萨尔曼(Salman)保留了这些决策。
But the kingdom’s economic, foreign and military policies are set by members of the royal family and ministers appointed by the king. The country has never had a female minister.
但沙特阿拉伯的经济、外交和军事政策均由皇室成员及国王任命的各部大臣制定。该国还不曾出现过女性大臣。
The kingdom’s 284 local councils handle municipal issues, and candidates campaigned to fix roads, improve health care access and open public parks. Only two-thirds of the council members are elected; the rest will be appointed by the government.
沙特阿拉伯有284个地方议会负责处理市政事务，候选人竞选的是谁来管理修路、提高医疗保健覆盖面和建设公园等事务。仅有三分之二的议会成员是选举出来的，其他的将由政府任命。
It was unclear late Sunday exactly how many women had won across the country, as results in many districts were announced locally.
至周日晚间，外界依然不清楚全国到底有多少女性赢得了选举，因为许多地区的选举结果只在当地宣布。
Reuters reported that 17 women had won, citing a news website affiliated with the Saudi Interior Ministry. The Associated Press put the number at 19.
路透社(Reuters)援引沙特阿拉伯内政部的一家附属新闻网站的消息报道，有17名女性当选。美联社(The Associated Press)的报道则将这个数字列为19人。