Saudi Arabia said Tuesday that it was halting its bombing campaign aimed at the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels who have seized much of neighboring Yemen, in a conflict that has threatened to escalate into a new regional war.
沙特阿拉伯在周二表示将会停止针对胡塞(Houthi)叛军的轰炸行动。获得伊朗支持的胡塞叛军已经占领了邻国也门的大部分地区。这场冲突具有升级为新区域战争的可能性。
A Saudi Defense Ministry statement quoted by the country's news agencies said “the objectives of `Operation Decisive Storm' have been achieved.”
沙特阿拉伯新闻机构报道称，国防部发表声明表示，“‘果断风暴行动’(Operation Decisive Storm)的目标已经达成。”
The Saudi decision to suspend the nearly monthlong bombing campaign followed a statement Tuesday by a top Iranian official who said he expected a cease-fire to be announced.
在沙特阿拉伯决定暂停长达一个月的轰炸行动之前，伊朗高层官员于周二发表声明称，他认为相关方面将会宣布停火。
“We are optimistic that in the coming hours, after many efforts, we will see a halt to military attacks in Yemen,” the deputy foreign minister, Hossein Amir Abdollahian, told Iranian news agencies.
伊朗副外长侯赛因·阿米尔·阿卜杜拉辛(Hossein Amir Abdollahian)表示，“经过一系列努力，也门地区的军事攻击行动将会在未来几个小时停止，我们对此持乐观态度。”
It was not immediately clear whether the announcements would lead to peace talks among the antagonists in the Yemen conflict.
目前尚不清楚相关消息是否会促使也门冲突各方展开和谈。
The bombing by a Saudi-led coalition of 10 Arab countries began March 26, paralyzing Yemen, the Middle East's poorest country, and leaving hundreds of people dead and thousands injured.
沙特阿拉伯牵头与其他九个阿拉伯国家组成联盟，于3月26日开展轰炸行动，致使中东最贫穷的国家也门陷入瘫痪，造成数百人死亡，数千人受伤。
Saudi Arabia has said that the coalition was engaged in a justified effort to stop the advance of the Houthi militia, based in northern Yemen, which has routed the Saudi-backed government of President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi, now in exile.
沙特阿拉伯曾表示，该联盟出于正当理由，致力于阻止胡塞民兵的推进，驻扎在也门北部的胡塞民兵击溃了获得沙特阿拉伯支持的阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abed Rabbu Mansour Hadi)政府，总统哈迪目前处于流亡之中。
The Houthis have developed strong alliances with disaffected members of Yemen's armed forces and the country's former president, Ali Abdullah Saleh.
胡塞与也门武装力量中对政府不满的成员及也门前总统阿里·阿卜杜拉·萨利赫(Ali Abdullah Saleh)组成了强大联盟。
The fighting in Yemen, a country that was already dangerously unstable, also provided an opening for al-Qaida's branch there to expand its territory.
也门原本就处于极不稳定的状态，这场冲突更是为基地组织也门分支提供了一个扩展领地的机会。
The officialSaudi Press Agency, quoting a Defense Ministry statement, said the airstrikes “have successfully managed to thwart the threat on the security of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and neighboring countries through destruction of the heavy weapons and ballistic missiles seized by the Houthi militias and troops loyal to (Ali Abdullah Saleh), including bases and camps of the Yemeni army.”
官方的沙特通讯社(Saudi Press Agency)援引国防部声明称，空袭行动“通过摧毁胡塞民兵和忠于萨利赫的部队获取的重型武器和弹道导弹，以及也门军队的一些基地和营地，成功地消除了针对沙特阿拉伯王国及邻国的安全威胁。”