WASHINGTON — A still-classified section of the investigation by congressional intelligence committees into the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks has taken on an almost mythic quality over the past 13 years — 28 pages that examine crucial support given the hijackers and that by all accounts implicate prominent Saudis in financing terrorism.
华盛顿——国会情报委员会有关9·11袭击事件的调查报告中依旧保密的部分，在过去13年中几乎成了一个谜，这部分长达28页的报告涉及针对劫机者获得的重要资助的调查，从各种迹象来看，报告暗示一些知名的沙特阿拉伯人在资助恐怖主义。
Now new claims by Zacarias Moussaoui, a convicted former member of Al Qaeda, that he had high-level contact with officials of the Saudi Arabian government in the prelude to Sept. 11 have brought renewed attention to the inquiry’s withheld findings, which lawmakers and relatives of those killed in the attacks have tried unsuccessfully to declassify.
如今，已被定罪的前基地组织(Al Qaeda)成员扎卡里亚·穆萨维(Zacarias Moussaoui)声称，他在9·11事件之前与沙特阿拉伯政府的高层官员保持联系，使得对外保密的调查结果再次受到关注，议员及遇难者家属曾设法要求政府公开文件，但没能成功。
“I think it is the right thing to do,” said Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts and an author of a bipartisan resolution encouraging President Obama to declassify the section. “Let’s put it out there.”
“我认为应该公开文件，”马萨诸塞州民主党众议员斯蒂芬·F·林奇(Stephen F. Lynch)说，他是一份力促奥巴马总统公开相关文件的两党决议的撰写人之一。
White House officials say the administration has undertaken a review on whether to release the pages but had no timetable for when they might be made public.
白宫官员表示，政府正在就是否公布文件进行评估，但没有公开文件的时间表。
Mr. Lynch and his allies have been joined by former Senator Bob Graham of Florida, who as chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee was a leader of the inquiry. He has called for the release of the report’s Part 4, which dealt with Saudi Arabia, since President George W. Bush ordered it classified when the rest of the report was released in December 2002.
林奇和他的助手获得了前佛罗里达州参议员鲍勃·格雷厄姆(Bob Graham)的支持，格雷厄姆在担任参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)主席期间领导了调查行动。他曾要求政府公开报告的第四部分——与沙特阿拉伯有关的内容，当2002年12月报告其他部分被公之于众时，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统下令要求将第四部分设为保密文件。
Mr. Graham has repeatedly said it shows that Saudi Arabia was complicit in the Sept. 11 attacks. “The 28 pages primarily relate to who financed 9/11, and they point a very strong finger at Saudi Arabia as being the principal financier,” Mr. Graham said last month as he pressed for the pages to be made public.
格雷厄姆曾多次表示，这说明沙特阿拉伯是9·11攻击事件的同谋。他上个月要求公开文件时表示，“这部分28页的报告主要与9·11袭击行动的资助者有关，这些文件有力地证明，沙特阿拉伯是主要的资助者。”
Relatives of those killed on Sept. 11 as well as plaintiffs in a federal lawsuit against Saudi Arabia have also demanded that the pages be made public, seeing them as the vital link that they believe connects an important ally of the United States to the deadly attacks. They say the pages, Part 4 of the report, could also help in determining the source of current funding for terrorist activities.
9·11事件遇难者的家属，以及在联邦法院对沙特阿拉伯提起诉讼的原告都要求公开文件，他们将这些文视作重要纽带，认为这些文件将美国的重要盟友与这起致命袭击事件联系起来。他们表示，报告的第四部分内容还有助于查明恐怖活动现在的资金来源。
“If we stop funding of terrorism and hold those people accountable, wouldn’t it make a dent in the financing of terrorism today?” asked William Doyle, whose son, Joseph, was killed in the World Trade Center. Mr. Doyle said that President Obama personally assured him after the death of Osama bin Laden that he would declassify that section of the report.
“如果我们封堵恐怖主义的资金来源，让这些人承担责任，这不就破坏了恐怖主义当前的资金来源了吗？”威廉·多伊尔(William Doyle)问道。他的儿子约瑟夫(Joseph)在世贸中心(World Trade Center)的袭击中丧生。多伊尔说，奥巴马总统曾亲自向他保证，奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)死后，他将公开这一部分报告内容。
Proponents of releasing Part 4, titled “Finding, Discussion and Narrative Regarding Certain National Security Matters,” have suggested that the Bush and Obama administrations have held it back for fear of alienating an influential military and economic partner rather than for any national security consideration.
对于这份题为《关于一些国家安全事务的发现、讨论和陈述》(Finding, Discussion and Narrative Regarding Certain National Security Matter)的报告，支持公布第四部分的人表示，布什和奥巴马政府之所以隐瞒这部分内容，是因为担心会得罪一个颇有影响力的军事和经济伙伴，而非出于任何国家安全方面的考虑。
Others familiar with that section of the report say that while it might implicate Saudi Arabia, the suspicions, investigatory leads and other findings it contains did not withstand deeper scrutiny. Philip D. Zelikow, the executive director of the national commission that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks after the congressional panels, said the commission followed up on the allegations, using some of the same personnel who wrote them initially, but reached a different conclusion.
还有一些熟悉这部分报告内容的人称，虽然报告或许暗示沙特阿拉伯曾牵涉其中，但其中包含的怀疑、调查性线索和其他结论根本经不住进一步审查。继国会委员会之后对9·11袭击进行调查的全国委员会总干事菲利普·D·泽利科(Philip D. Zelikow)说，委员会对相关指控进行了跟踪调查，一些最初撰写这些内容的人也曾参与其中，但却得出了不同的结论。
“Saudi Arabia has long been considered the primary source of Al Qaeda funding, but we have found no evidence that the Saudi government as an institution or senior Saudi officials individually funded the organization,” the commission said in its July 2004 report. It did note, however, the “likelihood that charities with significant Saudi government sponsorship diverted funds to Al Qaeda.”
“长期以来，沙特阿拉伯一直被视为基地组织的主要资金来源，但我们没有发现任何证据，能够证明沙特政府作为一个机构或是高级沙特官员曾单独为该组织提供资助，”委员会在其2004年7月的报告中称。不过，它的确提到，“得到了沙特政府大量资助的慈善机构曾向基地组织转移资金。”
Mr. Zelikow pointed to the more thorough investigation undertaken by the commission.
泽利科提到了委员会所进行的更加彻底的调查。
“Those involved in the preparation of the famous 28 pages joined the staff of the 9/11 Commission and participated in the follow-up investigation of all the leads that had been developed earlier,” he said Wednesday. “In doing so, they were aided by a larger team with more members, more powers and for the first time actually conducted interviews of relevant people both in this country and in Saudi Arabia.”
“那些曾参与著名的28页材料的准备工作的人，加入了9·11委员会(9/11 Commission)的工作团队，并参与了此前发现的所有线索的后续调查，”他周三表示。“这样，他们就得到了一个更大的团队的帮助，这个团队成员更多、权力更大，而且首次真正对美国和沙特阿拉伯的相关人士进行了采访。”
“And what we found is reflected in the commission report,” he said.
他说，“委员会的报告反映了我们的调查结果。”
Demands for the release of the 28 pages began soon after the intelligence committees finished their work. In 2003, more than 40 senators called on Mr. Bush to order the material’s disclosure. He refused, saying “we won’t reveal sources and methods that will compromise our efforts to succeed” in fighting terrorism.
在情报委员会的工作完成后不久，立即有人要求公布这28页材料。2003年，共有逾40名参议员呼吁布什下令公布材料内容。他拒绝了这个要求，表示“我们决不会透露那些将破坏我们成功”对抗恐怖主义“的工作的信息来源和途径”。
The Saudi government has also said it favored making the 28 pages public because that would make it easier to refute what it said were unfounded allegations. The embassy said Wednesday that it stood by that position.
沙特政府也表示支持将这28页材料公开，因为这有助于反驳它所说的毫无根据的指控。大使馆本周三表示支持该立场。
Representative Walter B. Jones, a North Carolina Republican pushing for the release of Part 4, said the Moussaoui claims might give momentum to the declassification effort. He said he was approached Wednesday on the House floor by lawmakers inquiring about how to view the 28 pages. But there seemed to be little appetite for declassification among the Republican leaders of the intelligence panels.
北卡罗来纳州共和党众议员沃尔特·B·琼斯(Walter B. Jones)敦促公开第四部分，说穆萨维的说法可能会推动解密进程。他说，本周三有参议员来到众议院，询问如何查看那28页。但情报委员会的共和党领导人似乎对解密缺乏兴趣。
Senator Richard M. Burr, the North Carolina Republican who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee, said he was skeptical of the value of releasing the pages, calling them more of a historical document in a fight against terrorism that has shifted substantially since 2002.
北卡罗来纳州的共和党参议员理查德·M·伯尔(Richard M. Burr)是参议院情报委员会的负责人，他对公开这些资料的重要性表示了怀疑，称它们其实是关于打击恐怖主义的历史文献；自2002年以来，恐怖主义已经发生了大幅变化。
“There may have been a level of participation by some Muslim country that is not commensurate with today,” he said.
“某些穆斯林国家的参与程度与如今不一样，”他说。
Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said “the authority to declassify this document lies with President Obama.”
加利福尼亚州共和党众议员德文·努尼斯(Devin Nunes)是众议院情报委员会的主席，他说“解密这份文件的权力在奥巴马总统手里”。
Advocates of releasing the document have been frustrated by Mr. Obama, noting that Democrats were much more aggressive in pushing for its disclosure when Mr. Bush was president.
支持公开文件的人对奥巴马的表现感到失望，他们说，在布什任总统期间，民主党人对公开这份资料的推动更加积极。
Mr. Doyle and Kristen Breitweiser, whose husband, Ronald, was killed on Sept. 11 in the World Trade Center, say the president assured them during separate meetings with families of the victims of the attack that he saw no reason the document should be withheld.
克里斯汀·布雷特维尔(Kristen Breitweiser)的丈夫罗纳德在9·11事件中死在世贸大楼内，她和多伊尔表示，奥巴马多次在遇难者家属见面会上向他们保证说，他认为这份文件没有理由被隐瞒起来。
Mr. Doyle said he encouraged Mr. Obama at a meeting in May 2011 with surviving family members to follow through on a pledge he made two years earlier to Ms. Breitweiser. “He said: ‘Bill, I know about the pages. I promise I am going to get them released,’ ” Mr. Doyle recounted.
多伊尔说，在2011年5月的遇难者家属见面会上，他敦促奥巴马兑现两年前对布雷特维尔的承诺，“他说：‘比尔（“威廉”的昵称。——译注），我知道这些资料。我承诺会公开它们，”多伊尔回忆到。
The White House said it was responding to the calls to consider releasing the material.
白宫表示，作为对这些呼吁的回应，政府在考虑将这些资料公开。