RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — On his eighth trip to fight with the rebels in Syria, in August, Abu Khattab saw something that troubled him: two dead children, their blood-soaked bodies sprawled on the street of a rural village near the Mediterranean coast. He knew right away that his fellow rebels had killed them.
沙特阿拉伯利雅得——去年8月，在第八次前往叙利亚参与反对派战斗的过程中，阿布·哈塔卜(Abu Khattab)看到了令他揪心的一幕：在地中海沿岸附近的一个农村地区的路上，两具儿童尸体四肢张开着躺在血泊中。他立刻意识到，这是与他并肩作战的叙利亚反对派所为。
Abu Khattab, a 43-year-old Saudi hospital administrator who was pursuing jihad on his holiday breaks, went to demand answers from his local commander, a notoriously brutal man named Abu Ayman al-Iraqi. The commander brushed him off, saying his men had killed the children “because they were not Muslims,” Abu Khattab recalled recently during an interview here.
现年43岁的阿布·哈塔卜是沙特一家医院的行政人员。他当时正在利用假期参与圣战。他随后找到他在当地的指挥官，要求他做出解释。这名指挥官叫做阿布·艾曼·伊拉基(Abu Ayman al-Iraqi)，出了名的残暴。阿布·哈塔卜最近在利雅得接受采访时回忆说，这名指挥官很不以为然，只是说他手下的人杀了这两个孩子，“因为他们不是穆斯林”。
It was only then that Abu Khattab began to believe that the jihad in Syria — where he had traveled in violation of an official Saudi ban — was not fully in accord with God’s will. But by the time he returned to Riyadh, where he now volunteers in a program to discourage others from going, his government had overcome its own scruples to become the main backer of the Syrian rebels, including many hard-line Islamists who often fight alongside militants loyal to Al Qaeda.
哈塔卜直到那时才开始相信，叙利亚的圣战运动并不是与真主的意愿完全吻合。他前往叙利亚的做法还违反了沙特官方的一项禁令。但当他回到利雅得的时候，政府已经克服了顾虑，成为叙利亚反对派的主要支持者，而反对派包括那些经常与忠于基地组织的武装分子并肩作战的强硬派伊斯兰主义分子。哈塔卜目前在利雅得为一个项目做志愿者，该项目旨在劝说人们不要去叙利亚参加圣战。
The disillusionment of Abu Khattab — who asked that his full name be withheld because he still fears retribution from jihadists — helps illustrate the great challenge now facing Saudi Arabia’s rulers: how to fight an increasingly bloody and chaotic proxy war in Syria using zealot militia fighters over whom they have almost no control.
由于担心圣战分子的报复，阿布·哈塔卜要求不要透露他的全名。他的幻灭一定程度上突显了沙特统治者目前面临的巨大挑战：如何利用自己几乎完全无法掌控的狂热民兵，在叙利亚打一场越来越血腥和混乱的代理人战争。
The Saudis fear the rise of Al Qaeda’s affiliates in Syria, and they have not forgotten what happened when Saudi militants who had fought in Afghanistan returned home to wage a domestic insurgency a decade ago. They officially prohibit their citizens from going to Syria for jihad, but the ban is not enforced; at least a thousand have gone, according to Interior Ministry officials, including some from prominent families.
沙特人担心基地组织的分支会在叙利亚崛起，他们没有忘记，10年前，沙特的激进分子在阿富汗参战之后回国发动了叛乱。他们下令禁止沙特人去叙利亚参加圣战，但是禁令并未得到执行；内政部的官员说，至少已经有1000人去了叙利亚，包括一些来自显赫家族的人士。
But the Saudis are also bent on ousting Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, and his patron, Iran, which they see as a mortal enemy. Their only real means of fighting them is through military and financial support to the Syrian rebels. And the most effective of those rebels are Islamists whose creed — rooted in the puritanical strain of Islam practiced in Saudi Arabia — is often scarcely separable from Al Qaeda’s.
但是沙特人也决意要推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)和他的庇护者伊朗政权。他们把伊朗视为死敌。但沙特真正与他们战斗的唯一手段只能是为叙利亚反对派提供武器和资金支持。这些反对派力量中，最有战斗力的是伊斯兰主义分子，而他们的教义——根植于沙特信奉的伊斯兰清教徒派系——与基地组织的信条几乎没有区别。
Abu Khattab, a slight-figured man with bulging eyes and the scraggly beard of an ultra-orthodox Salafist Muslim, embodies some of these paradoxes. He now volunteers here once a week to warn young men about the false glamour of the Syrian jihad at the government’s rehabilitation center for jihadists. “There is a shortage of religious conditions for jihad in Syria,” he said. Many of the fighters kill Syrian civilians, a violation of Islam, he added.
阿布·哈塔卜身材瘦小，眼睛凸出，蓄着极端正统的萨拉菲派(Salafist)穆斯林的那种散乱胡须，他本人就体现了这些矛盾的部分内容。目前，他每周都要来政府的圣战主义者改造中心一次，志愿向年轻人宣传叙利亚圣战的虚伪性。“叙利亚的圣战缺乏宗教条件，”他说。他还说，许多圣战主义者都会杀害叙利亚平民，这种行为违反了伊斯兰教义。
But as Abu Khattab talked about Syria, his own convictions seemed scarcely different from the jihadists he had carefully denounced (two officials from the Interior Ministry were present during the interview). He made clear that he considered Shiite Muslims and Mr. Assad’s Alawite sect to be infidels and a terrible danger to his own people.
但是，阿布·哈塔卜在谈论叙利亚的时候，他的信念似乎与他小心谴责的圣战主义者没什么不同（采访时，两名内政部官员也在场）。他明确表示，他认为什叶派穆斯林和阿萨德的阿拉维派属于异教徒，给人民带来了可怕的危险。
“If the Shiites succeed in controlling Syria, it will be a threat to my country,” Abu Khattab said. “I went to Syria to protect my country.”
“如果什叶派成功控制了叙利亚，就会对我的国家造成威胁，”阿布·哈塔卜说。“我去叙利亚是为了保护自己的国家。”
At times, his sectarian feelings seemed to outshine his unease about the excesses of some of his more extreme comrades. He did not deny that he had often fought alongside members of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, the brutal jihadist group affiliated with Al Qaeda.
有时候，他的宗派感受似乎还超过了他对那些更极端的同伴的过分行为的担心。他并不否认自己经常同伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的成员并肩战斗，这个残忍的圣战组织是基地组织(Al Qaeda)的分支。
Abu Khattab also mentioned proudly that he is no stranger to jihad. He fought as a teenager in Afghanistan (“With the government’s permission!”) and, a few years later, in Bosnia. He chose not to fight the Americans in Iraq “because there are too many Shiites there,” he said, with a look of distaste on his face.
阿布·哈塔卜还自豪地提到了他对圣战并不陌生。少年时期，他就在阿富汗参加过战斗（“在得到政府许可的情况下！”），几年后，他又参加了波斯尼亚的战斗。他之所以没有在伊拉克战争中与美国作战，“是因为那里有太多的什叶派，”他一脸厌恶地说道。
Yet this is a man who lectures inmates at the rehabilitation center every week about ethics and war. The center, like many Saudi institutions, has been somewhat embarrassed by the contradictions of Saudi policy with regard to Syria. Although the center incarcerates some men who have been arrested for trying to travel to Syria, last summer the nephew of Abdelrahman al-Hadlaq, its director, was killed while fighting there. His mother posted statements on Twitter saying she was proud of him.
然而，这个人每周都会来到改造中心，向被关在这里的人发表关于伦理和战争的讲话。与许多沙特机构一样，这个中心的处境也因为沙特对叙政策中的矛盾之处而显得有些尴尬。虽然中心里囚禁着一些因为试图前往叙利亚而遭到逮捕的人，但是去年夏天，中心负责人阿卜杜勒拉赫曼·哈德拉格(Abdelrahman al-Hadlaq)的侄子却在叙利亚阵亡。他的母亲在Twitter上发表声明称，她为儿子感到骄傲。
More recently, the center suffered an even more stinging disappointment involving one of its best-known graduates, a reformed jihadist named Ahmed al-Shayea. He became famous in Saudi Arabia after surviving his own suicide bombing in Iraq in 2004, a bombing arranged by militants with Al Qaeda’s Iraqi branch.
最近，这个中心甚至遭遇了一件更加令人失望的事情，其主角是在这里住过的人中知名度最高的一个，名叫艾哈迈德·沙亚(Ahmed al-Shayea)，一名改过自新的圣战者。2004年，此人在基地组织伊拉克分部武装分子安排下，在伊拉克发动自杀式炸弹攻击，但却幸存了下来，并在沙特阿拉伯名声大振。
Mr. Shayea was burned and disfigured, but after months in the hospital he emerged and proclaimed himself cured of the jihadist mind-set. He was known as the “living suicide,” and in 2009 the American author Ken Ballen devoted an entire chapter to a glowing portrait of him in his book, “Terrorists in Love.”
沙亚被烧伤并毁了容，但在医院住了几个月后，他出现在公众面前，自称已经纠正了圣战思维。人们称他为“活着的自杀者”，2009年，美国作家肯·拜伦(Ken Ballen)在《恋爱中的恐怖分子》(Terrorists in Love)一书中，热情洋溢地用了整整一个章节来写沙亚。
In November, Mr. Shayea slipped out of Saudi Arabia to Syria, where he is now fighting with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. He proudly trumpets his return to jihad on his Twitter feed, which features a picture of him clutching a rifle with his mangled hands.
去年11月，沙亚从沙特阿拉伯潜入叙利亚，并站在伊拉克与ISIS一方参加战斗。他在Twitter上得意地炫耀自己回归圣战的行动，并上传了他用带着伤疤的双手握着步枪的照片。
Abu Khattab’s path to Syria was similar to that of many others here and across the Arab world. He read about the uprisings in 2011, but it was Syria that touched his heart. It was not just because of the bloodshed, he said, but because his Sunni brothers were being killed by Alawites and Shiites.
阿布·哈塔卜前往叙利亚的原因，跟这里以及整个阿拉伯世界的很多人都很相似。2011年他了解到叛乱的事情，但触动他心房的是叙利亚。他说不仅是由于流血事件，还因为他的逊尼派兄弟遭到了阿拉维派和什叶派的杀戮。
When he first went, in the summer of 2012, he flew directly from Riyadh to the Turkish city of Antakya, near the Syrian border, he said. There were other Saudi men heading for the battlefield on the flight with him, he said, and no sign of a Saudi government effort to monitor or restrain them.
2012年夏天第一次去时，他直接从利雅德飞到了靠近叙利亚边境的土耳其城市安塔基亚，他说，跟他乘坐同一个航班的还有其他一些前往战场的沙特人，没有迹象显示沙特政府在监视或限制他们。
In Turkey, he found many other foreign fighters, and Syrian rebels who were eager to take them to the battlefield. “They especially like Saudis, because the Saudis are more willing to do suicide operations,” he said.
在土耳其，他发现了很多其他来自国外的战斗人员，而叙利亚叛军急于把他们带上战场。他说，“他们特别喜欢沙特人，因为沙特人更愿意采取自杀式行动。”
In the end, it was the slaughter of innocents that made him decide to quit, he said, and a broader feeling that the rebels alongside him were not doing it for the right reasons. “If the fight is not purely to God, it’s not a real jihad,” he said. “These people are fighting for their flags.”
最后，叛军屠杀无辜者的做法也促使他决定离开。他说他的总体感觉是，这些叛军动机不纯。“如果不是纯粹地为了神而战斗，那就不是真正的圣战，”他说。“这些人是在为他们自己的目的作战。”
But there was another reason he gave up the fight.
然而他放弃战斗还有另外一个原因。
“Bashar has started to put Sunnis on the front line,” he said of Syria’s leader. “This is a big problem. The rebels do not want to fight them. The real war is not against Bashar himself, it is against Iran. Everything else is just a false image.”
“巴沙尔已经开始把逊尼派的人放在前线了，”他在提到这位叙利亚领导人时说。“这是一个很大的问题。叛军不想跟他们打。真正的战争针对的并不是巴沙尔本人，而是伊朗。其他一切都只是假象。”