PARIS — On Bastille Day 1989, when President François Mitterrand inaugurated the Grande Arche, a 40-story postmodern bookend about three miles to the west of the Arc de Triomphe, it seemed its own form of triumph.
巴黎——1989年的巴士底日（Bastille Day，7月14日，又称法国国庆日——译注），法国总统弗朗索瓦·密特朗(François Mitterrand)主持新凯旋门(Grande Arche)的落成仪式之际，这座新建筑本身似乎昭示着一种胜利。新凯旋门是一座形似书立的40层后现代建筑，坐落在凯旋门以西约3英里（约合4.8公里）处。
The ceremony celebrated a decade-long building boom at La Défense, the sprawling array of office buildings long envisioned as Paris’s answer to Lower Manhattan or the City of London.
人们在落成仪式上庆祝了拉德芳斯(La Défense)商业区长达10年的建设热潮。10年来，一座座办公大楼如雨后春笋般拔地而起。长久以来，拉德芳斯都被视为巴黎的曼哈顿下城(Lower Manhattan)或是伦敦金融城(the City of London)。
But La Défense, begun during the presidency of Charles de Gaulle in the late 1950s and built just west of Paris by bulldozing slums and paving over farmland, has always worked better in architectural theory than in anthropological practice.
早在20世纪50年代末，夏尔·戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)执政期间，人们在巴黎西郊推倒贫民窟，铲平农田，建起了这片商业区。然而一直以来，拉德芳斯的成功更多体现在建筑学理论上，而非人类学实践。
Rather than the Parisian business hub its founders described, it often seems more like the isolated end of a spoke that has highlighted a crucial flaw in urban planning — a concern with making architectural statements — rather than an affinity for the people in and around the buildings.
虽然拉德芳斯被其缔造者描述为巴黎的商业枢纽，但很多时候，它更像城市轴线末端的一座孤岛，它的存在，彰显着城市规划的一个重大失误。其规划的着眼点在于建筑学上的考量，而非生活在其中及周边地区的人们对它的感受。
When non-French planning experts assess La Défense, they say it shares the same problems as the Canary Wharf complex in London, where developers have tried to supplant the City with Big Architecture and whose artificial origins may be hard to overcome. The experts look more favorably on the somewhat organic mix of business and residential of Lower Manhattan, which has evolved over the last century.
其他国家的规划专家在评鉴拉德芳斯时表示，拉德芳斯存在的问题跟伦敦金丝雀码头（Canary Wharf，伦敦的一个重要商业区——译注）的建筑群一样。金丝雀码头的开发商试图在金融城里建起高楼大厦，但这些建筑群的问世实在太刻意了，难免令人生厌。专家们更喜欢曼哈顿下城的布局。经过上个世纪整整一个世纪的发展演变，曼哈顿下城的办公区和住宅区错落有致，浑然一体。
“La Défense has always suffered from a creative hypothermia,” said Wojciech Czaja, an Austrian architecture critic. “It is a sad area because it is atmospherically and emotionally perceived as a business district only.”
“一直以来，拉德芳斯在追求建筑创新的同时，也显得冰冷而不近人情，”奥地利建筑评论人沃伊切赫·查亚(Wojciech Czaja)表示，“这是一个可悲的地方，因为无论是从气氛上看，还是就人们的感受而言，它都仅仅是个商务区而已。”
The public agency that manages the complex has hired an architectural firm to draft a new master plan in hopes of making the grandiose vision for La Défense a livable reality. It is difficult to determine whether the plan can withstand the headwinds of Europe’s continuing financial woes, and France’s lingering recession and an unemployment rate near 11 percent.
管理这片建筑群的公共经纪机构聘请了一家建筑设计公司，来起草一份新的总体规划，以期将拉德芳斯的宏大远景转化成实实在在的宜居之所。目前难以断定这份总体规划能否度过时艰——欧洲迟迟未能摆脱金融困境，法国经济持续衰退，失业率已接近11%。
But it would be wrong to call La Défense a business failure, because it is home to 1,500 head offices, including those of 15 of the world’s 50 largest companies. French corporations with their signature headquarters here include the oil and gas giant Total, the big bank Société Générale and Areva, a leading builder of nuclear power plants. And developers continue to build.
但若由此断定拉德芳斯就是一个商业上的失败，还尚有偏颇。毕竟，这里云集了1500家公司的总部，其中包括了世界最大的50家企业中的15家。不少法国企业的总部大楼已成为这里的标志性建筑，包括石油和天然气巨头道达尔(Total)、银行巨头法国兴业银行(Société Générale)以及世界核电业的领跑者阿海珐(Areva)。此外，开发商还在继续兴建楼盘。
Critics have long derided the mixed commercial, residential and retailing complex, which covers 1.6 square kilometers, or 0.62 square miles, as dehumanizing. While about 20,000 mainly low- and middle-income people live here, the vast central plaza can feel like a ghost town after 5 p.m. and on weekends, once most of the district’s 150,000 office workers have left by train, bus or subway to more desirable parts of Paris or its less surreal suburbs.
拉德芳斯占地1.6平方公里，相当于0.62平方英里，集中了商务楼、住宅与零售店面。长久以来，评论人士一直讥讽它没有人情味。尽管有大约2万名多为中低收入者的居民住在这里，然而每天一过下午五点，或是到了周末，随着区内的15万上班族乘坐火车、汽车或地铁离开这里，奔向巴黎市更富乐趣的地区——或是不那么超现实的市郊，拉德芳斯辽阔的中央广场给人的感觉，就像一座死城。
“There is nothing good about living here,” said Carlin Pierre, 54, who works at a waste disposal center in the district and resides in one of the Brutalist communal, rent-subsidized housing blocks tucked amid the high-rise office buildings. “Sure, it’s a nice area to come as a tourist, or even to work,” Mr. Pierre said, “but it’s terrible to live in La Défense.”
“住在这里一点也不好，”54岁的卡林·皮埃尔(Carlin Pierre)表示。皮埃尔就职于区内的一家废物处理中心，他住的地方是一栋野兽派（Brutalist，现代主义建筑流派的一种——译注）风格的集体公寓，有租金补贴，周围都是摩天写字楼。“当然，这里很适合旅游，甚至工作，”皮埃尔说，“但是拉德芳斯并不宜居。”
Alessandra Cianchetta, a partner at AWP, the firm mapping the master plan, acknowledges the enormousness of her task. “La Défense as a concept is a bit obsolete,” Ms. Cianchetta said. “There is no interaction, no hospitality here.”
负责起草总体规划的是AWP建筑公司。其合伙人亚历山德拉·钱凯塔(Alessandra Cianchetta)坦言，公司的任务非常艰巨。“拉德芳斯作为一个概念，稍微有些过时了，”钱凯塔表示，“这里没有交流，没有宜人的氛围。”
Vacancy rates at La Défense, long an up-and-down indicator of the French economy, are once more on the rise. Next to the Grande Arche is the site of what was to be a 71-story office tower, Tour Signal, commissioned with much fanfare in 2008 to the French architect Jean Nouvel. It has been canceled.
拉德芳斯的楼盘空置率一向被视为法国经济的风向标，如今该指标再度上升了。在新凯旋门的旁边，是一块本来要建一座71层写字楼的地皮。其开发商Tour Signal在2008年曾高调委任法国建筑师让·努维尔(Jean Nouvel)担任设计师。而目前该楼盘的建设计划已被取消。
Still, three new, architecturally ambitious office towers are under construction at La Défense. And the recently financed Hermitage Plaza project on the Seine River at the easternmost edge of La Défense, if it opens as planned in 2018, will include Europe’s tallest residential building. Some of the continued activity, of course, has to do with the long lag between conceiving a commercial real estate project and getting it built — a speculative roll of the dice that has paid little heed to shorter-term considerations like France and Europe’s current economic travails.
尽管如此，仍然有三项工程浩大的新写字楼项目正在拉德芳斯动工。近日获得注资的艾米塔基广场(Hermitage Plaza)项目，选址于拉德芳斯最东端，地处塞纳河畔。若按计划于2018年正式开盘，此地将矗立起欧洲最高的住宅楼。当然，有些项目之所以还在继续施工，是因为那些商业地产项目从策划到落实之间存在较长时滞——有些开发商怀着投机和侥幸的心理贸然试水，对于法国乃至全欧洲当前的经济阵痛这样更短期的因素缺乏关注。
“La Défense’s ambitions to create a new kind of urbanism have been disappointing,” said Robert A. M. Stern, the dean of the Yale School of Architecture and principal of his namesake firm.
罗伯特·A·M·斯特恩(Robert A. M. Stern)是耶鲁建筑学院的院长，也是以他自己命名的公司的董事长。他表示：“拉德芳斯开创一种新型城市化模式的雄心令人失望。”
Because “the residential areas are too isolated in their own zones,” Mr. Stern said, it is rare to spot locals buying groceries in one of the complex’s shopping malls or to see families with strollers on the weekends.
由于“这里的住宅区与外界过于隔绝”，斯特恩表示，周末很少见到当地居民在拉德芳斯的商场里选购食品杂货，也很少见到一家人推着婴儿车出来散步。
A confined office area can work in some big American cities, but mostly because they are connected to the surrounding neighborhoods. Lower Manhattan “has residential areas right at its edge with streets threaded through to the city itself,” Mr. Stern said.
独立的办公区适用于美国的一些大城市，但这主要是因为它们和分布在周边的社区是有联系的。斯特恩表示，曼哈顿下城“边缘地带就有住宅区，而且住宅区和金融城间有道路相通”。
Despite these misgivings, Mr. Stern’s firm was willing to take the commission to design Tour Carpe Diem, a tower under construction in a dense cluster of high-rises on the northern edge of the district.
尽管疑虑重重，斯特恩的公司还是愿意接受委任，承担卡佩蒂姆大厦(Tour Carpe Diem)的设计工作。卡佩蒂姆大厦是一座正在建设中的摩天大楼，地处拉德芳斯北端，周围全是密密层层的高楼大厦。
“Carpe Diem is not just another aloof, objectlike office building sitting on a podium,” Mr. Stern said. “It is a dual-oriented piece of connective tissue linking the center of La Defénse with the peripheral roads of Courbevoie,” a middle-class municipality.
“卡佩蒂姆大厦不仅仅是一栋坐落在高台上的、孤立冰冷的写字楼，”斯特恩表示，“它就像座桥梁，将拉德芳斯的中心与库尔布瓦(Courbevoie)的外围道路连接起来。”库尔布瓦是一座中产阶级聚居的城市。
In any case, there are no tenants yet signed for Carpe Diem, which is to be completed in September.
卡佩蒂姆大厦将于今年9月完工，目前尚无租户签约。
A defining feature of La Défense is the plaza, a pedestrian slab of some 30 hectares, or 74 acres, that acts as a roof to underground shops, a bus terminal and a hangarlike train and subway depot with none of the charm of most Paris train stations.
拉德芳斯的一个标志性特征，是一块占地74英亩，约合30公顷的悬空式人行广场。它就像一个天花板，其下建有林立的地下商场、一个公交车总站和一个像飞机棚一样的火车及地铁站，完全不像大多数巴黎火车站那么美观。
Those who pass through each day, but live elsewhere, often make their peace with La Défense.
每天穿行于此、但居住在别处的工薪族，往往已经习惯了拉德芳斯这个地方。
The master plan of AWP calls for a complete makeover of the transportation center, adding entertainment sites to the public plaza and building footbridges to connect the now largely isolated slab with the surrounding neighborhoods.
而AWP公司的总体规划，希望将这个交通中心改头换面，在公共广场增设娱乐场所，同时架设人行天桥，将这片目前较为孤立的广场同周边社区联系起来。
There are new business districts on the competitive metropolitan Paris office market that real estate agents say are luring companies with lower prices — for example, areas in the north along the Seine and in the so-called inner rim of Paris, which includes the district of Saint-Denis, home of France’s national stadium, the Stade de France.
在巴黎这个竞争激烈的大都市写字楼市场，新的商业区正在涌现。用房地产经纪人的话来说，它们正在以更优惠的价格吸引着企业租户。比方说，在塞纳河畔北部地区和所谓的“巴黎内环”就有这样的商业区，其中包括圣但尼区(Saint-Denis)，这里是法国国家体育场——法兰西体育场(Stade de France)的所在地。
Société Générale, which has 20,000 employees at its La Défense headquarters, plans to transfer several thousand people to the eastern Paris suburb Fontenay-sous-Bois, where it is building a new business campus.
在拉德芳斯的法国兴业银行总部，有2万名员工。该银行计划将数千名员工转移到巴黎东郊的林畔丰特奈市(Fontenay-sous-Bois)，那里正在建一座新的商务园区。
“A lot of the towers in La Défense are going to empty out as companies look to rationalize their usage of office space,” said Alexis Motte, chief executive of Mobilitis, a real estate advisory agency. “The market in La Défense is clearly oversupplied.”
“由于企业纷纷开始寻求办公空间的合理化使用，拉德芳斯的很多高楼大厦正逐渐变得人去楼空，”房地产咨询机构Mobilitis的行政总裁亚力克西·莫特(Alexis Motte)表示，“拉德芳斯的地产市场显然已经供过于求了。”
The vacancy rate in La Défense stands at 7.5 percent, compared with 3.3 percent in the second quarter of 2008.
拉德芳斯的楼盘空置率已达到7.5%；而在2008年二季度时，此项数值仅为3.3%。
The Tour Eqho, a semicylindrical glass tower that formerly housed the French headquarters of I.B.M., is undergoing a top-to-bottom renovation by its developer, Icade. But so far, Icade is struggling to find enough tenants for its reopening later this year, people involved in the market say. Icade declined to comment.
Tour Eqho是一座半圆筒形的玻璃幕墙大厦，曾经是IBM的法国总部。而如今，它正被其开发商Icade彻底整修。但据业内人士表示，Icade目前正使尽浑身解数，为下半年的重新开盘寻找足够数量的租户。对此，Icade拒绝予以置评。
But some developers evidently think eventual success is simply a matter of timing. Consider Hermitage Plaza, a project featuring a pair of towers planned for the western bank of the Seine and designed by the British architect Norman Foster.
但也有些开发商坚信，取得最后的胜利只是个时间问题。艾米塔基广场项目就是个典型的例子——开发商计划在塞纳河西岸建造双塔，作为此项目的主打特色。双塔的设计师是英国建筑师诺曼·福斯特(Norman Foster)。
“The idea is to create a Manhattan in the French style in La Défense,” said Emin Iskenderov, a Russian developer who secured a loan this year from Sberbank, which is based in Moscow, to build the towers.
“我们的想法是，在拉德芳斯打造一个法国风情的曼哈顿，”俄罗斯开发商叶明·伊斯坎德洛夫(Emin Iskenderov)表示。为了筹集建造双塔的资金，伊斯坎德洛夫今年从总部设在莫斯科的俄罗斯联邦储蓄银行(Sberbank)拿到了贷款。
The complex will be only a short walk from one of La Défense’s two subway stations. And it is near the Pont de Neuilly, a bridge that pedestrians can cross the river to reach the upscale Paris suburb Neuilly-sur-Seine.
筹建中的双塔位置十分便利，从这里步行用不了多久，就能到达拉德芳斯区内两座地铁站中的一座。而且附近还有讷伊桥(Pont de Neuilly)。从桥上过河，就能到达巴黎市高消费阶层聚居的郊区——塞纳河畔的讷伊(Neuilly-sur-Seine)。
It might feel more like part of Paris, in other words, than most of the rest of La Defénse does.
换句话说，比起拉德芳斯的其它地方，这里给人的感觉可能更像巴黎的一部分。
“La Défense,” said Ms. Cianchetta, the master planner, “is like an iceberg that is disconnected from the areas around it.”
总体规划师钱凯塔表示：“拉德芳斯，它就像一座冰山，与它周围的地区毫无联系。”