Many economists, including Janet Yellen, view global economic troubles since 2008 largely as a story about “deleveraging” — a simultaneous attempt by debtors almost everywhere to reduce their liabilities. Why is deleveraging a problem? Because my spending is your income, and your spending is my income, so if everyone slashes spending at the same time, incomes go down around the world.
包括珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)在内的许多经济学家都将2008爆发的全球经济危机视作一个“去杠杆化”的问题——一个几乎所有地方的借债人都同时减债的举措。为何去杠杆化会成为一个问题呢？因为我的支出是你的收入，你的支出也是我的收入，所以如果所有人同时大幅削减支出，世界各地的收入都会下降。
Or as Ms. Yellen put it in 2009, “Precautions that may be smart for individuals and firms — and indeed essential to return the economy to a normal state — nevertheless magnify the distress of the economy as a whole.”
或者就像耶伦在2009年说的那样，“那些对于个人和公司来说可能是精明的预防措施——的确它们对于经济重返常态十分必要——却会放大整个经济体的痛苦。”
So how much progress have we made in returning the economy to that “normal state”? None at all. You see, policy makers have been basing their actions on a false view of what debt is all about, and their attempts to reduce the problem have actually made it worse.
那么在让经济重返“常态”这个问题上，我们现在进展如何？答案是毫无进展。你看，决策者的行动都是基于对整个债务问题的错误看法，他们尝试缓和问题却反而让情况更糟了。
First, the facts: Last week, the McKinsey Global Institute issued a report titled “Debt and (Not Much) Deleveraging,” which found, basically, that no nation has reduced its ratio of total debt to G.D.P. Household debt is down in some countries, especially in the United States. But it’s up in others, and even where there has been significant private deleveraging, government debt has risen by more than private debt has fallen.
首先，事实如下：上周，麦肯锡全球研究所(McKinsey Global Institute)发布了一份标题为“债务和（不多的）去杠杆化”的报告。这份报告发现总的来说没有一个国家降低了其债务相较于GDP的比例。家庭债务在一些国家有所下降，尤其是在美国，但在其他国家却有所上升，而且即便在那些私人债务大幅减少的国家里，政府债务的上升幅度却大于私人债务的下降幅度。
You might think our failure to reduce debt ratios shows that we aren’t trying hard enough — that families and governments haven’t been making a serious effort to tighten their belts, and that what the world needs is, yes, more austerity. But we have, in fact, had unprecedented austerity. As the International Monetary Fund has pointed out, real government spending excluding interest has fallen across wealthy nations — there have been deep cuts by the troubled debtors of Southern Europe, but there have also been cuts in countries, like Germany and the United States, that can borrow at some of the lowest interest rates in history.
你也许会以为之所以我们没有成功降低负债率，是因为我们还不够努力——家庭与政府还没有下足够的力气来勒紧裤腰带，而世界需要的，是的，就是更多的紧缩。但是其实我们已经紧缩到前所未有的地步了。国际货币基金组织指出，富国除利息支付外的实际政府支出都已经有所减少——一些陷入困境的南欧负债国已经大幅缩减政府开支，而像德国和美国这样能够以史上最低利率借贷的国家，其政府开支也有所下降。
All this austerity has, however, only made things worse — and predictably so, because demands that everyone tighten their belts were based on a misunderstanding of the role debt plays in the economy.
然而，所有这些紧缩政策只是让情况更糟了——这并不让人意外，因为那些让所有人勒紧裤腰带的要求，都是基于对债务在经济中所扮演角色的误解。
You can see that misunderstanding at work every time someone rails against deficits with slogans like “Stop stealing from our kids.” It sounds right, if you don’t think about it: Families who run up debts make themselves poorer, so isn’t that true when we look at overall national debt?
每当有人贴出像“别再从我们孩子那里偷钱了”这样反赤字的标语时，就是这种误解在作怪。这标语听起来没错，如果你不动动脑子的话：举债的家庭往往让自己变得更穷，所以对于整个国家的负债的话，难道不也是这样吗？
No, it isn’t. An indebted family owes money to other people; the world economy as a whole owes money to itself. And while it’s true that countries can borrow from other countries, America has actually been borrowing less from abroad since 2008 than it did before, and Europe is a net lender to the rest of the world.
不是。负债的家庭是欠别人钱：但是整个世界经济是自己欠自己钱。的确国家可以向其他国家借钱，但美国其实自2008年以来从别的国家借的钱更少了，而欧洲则是一个净贷出地区，它的贷款流向了世界各地。
Because debt is money we owe to ourselves, it does not directly make the economy poorer (and paying it off doesn’t make us richer). True, debt can pose a threat to financial stability — but the situation is not improved if efforts to reduce debt end up pushing the economy into deflation and depression.
由于债务是我们自己欠自己的钱，所以它并不会直接让经济体变得更穷（还债也不会让我们更有钱）。的确，债务威胁金融稳定——但是如果减债措施最终造成通货紧缩、经济萧条，情况并不会好转。
Which brings us to current events, for there is a direct connection between the overall failure to deleverage and the emerging political crisis in Europe.
这将我们带回到现在的问题上来，因为总体的去杠杆化失败和酝酿中的欧洲政治危机有着直接联系。
European leaders completely bought into the notion that the economic crisis was brought on by too much spending, by nations living beyond their means. The way forward, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany insisted, was a return to frugality. Europe, she declared, should emulate the famously thrifty Swabian housewife.
欧洲领导人们完全相信经济危机是由开支过度和国家入不敷出诱发的。所以德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)坚称下一步必须重返节俭。她宣称欧洲应仿效节俭出了名的士瓦本家庭主妇(Swabian housewife)。
This was a prescription for slow-motion disaster. European debtors did, in fact, need to tighten their belts — but the austerity they were actually forced to impose was incredibly savage. Meanwhile, Germany and other core economies — which needed to spend more, to offset belt-tightening in the periphery — also tried to spend less. The result was to create an environment in which reducing debt ratios was impossible: Real growth slowed to a crawl, inflation fell to almost nothing and outright deflation has taken hold in the worst-hit nations.
而这种观念却慢慢将欧洲引向了灾难。欧洲的债务国过去的确需要勒紧裤腰带——但是他们被迫接受的紧缩政策十分严苛。与此同时，德国以及其他核心经济体——本应增加开支以抵消周边国家的紧缩影响——却缩减了开支。结果就是创造了一个不可能使负债率降低的环境：实际增长变得慢如蜗牛，通胀跌到几乎为零，状况最糟的国家陷入了全面通缩。
Suffering voters put up with this policy disaster for a remarkably long time, believing in the promises of the elite that they would soon see their sacrifices rewarded. But as the pain went on and on, with no visible progress, radicalization was inevitable. Anyone surprised by the left’s victory in Greece, or the surge of anti-establishment forces in Spain, hasn’t been paying attention.
受苦的选民们在极长时间里一直对这项政策灾难保持忍耐，他们相信精英们的承诺，即很快就能看到付出会有所回报。但是随着痛苦持续不止，而且看不到什么进展，倒向激进也就不可避免了。任何对希腊左派胜利或西班牙反建制力量抬头感到意外的人都没有认真看问题。