WHEN Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines in November, killing more than 6,000 people and leaving more than four million homeless, one group was particularly hard hit: the landless poor. More than a thousand of the dead lived in a single squatter camp.
去年11月，台风“海燕”横扫菲律宾，导致至少6000人丧生、400万人无家可归。有一个群体遭到了尤为惨重的打击：没有土地的穷人。死者中，超过1000人生前居住在同一个棚户区内。
While natural disasters may seem like equal-opportunity destroyers, they are not.
尽管自然灾害肆虐的时候看似一视同仁，实际上却并非如此。
The developing world’s landless poor routinely bear the brunt of these disasters. Families without secure rights to land (and that is a majority of rural residents in many developing countries) often remain in their homes when it is dangerous to do so, fearing they won’t be allowed to return. And without the security of ownership and access to collateral, their homes are often not built to withstand earthquakes, typhoons and other disasters.
发展中国家的无地穷人通常在这些灾害中首当其冲。没有地权保障的家庭（在许多发展中国家，占到乡村居民的多数）往往在危险降临的时候坚守住所，因为担心事后不准回家。此外，由于所有权得不到保障、也没法进行抵押贷款，他们建起的房屋往往不能抵御地震和台风等灾害。
This has profound consequences that extend far beyond the squatter camps and plantations with their legions of impoverished laborers.
这一点产生了深远的影响，其范围远远超出了容纳大量贫穷劳工的棚户区和种植园。
Landlessness and the lack of secure property rights among the poor not only hurt a country’s resiliency and slow post-disaster recovery. Those inequities also hold back economic development, perpetuate poverty and fan social tensions. Fixing this problem is not easy. But many countries, including South Korea, Vietnam and Rwanda, have reformed their laws and institutions to provide the rural poor with enforceable rights to the lands they live on and farm.
穷人没有土地及缺乏产权保障的状况，不仅会损害一国的韧性并拖累灾后重建；这种不平等还会制约经济发展、固化贫困，以及引发社会矛盾。解决这一问题殊为不易。不过，包括韩国、越南和卢旺达在内的不少国家已修改了本国的法律与制度，将真正的地权赋予在那里居住与耕作的乡村穷人。
Those success stories are important because the vulnerability of the world’s landless — squatters, indigenous people, farm laborers and tenant farmers — cannot be overstated.
这些成功的先例颇为重要，因为全世界无地者的脆弱性怎么说也不为过，他们包括棚户区居民、土著、农场劳工和佃农。
Consider the case of the cyclone that struck the Indian state of Orissa in 1999, killing an estimated 10,000 people. One-third of the dead were poor fishermen and their families who refused to evacuate their coastal villages, believing it was a ploy to evict them from the government land where they had built their huts. Those communities were washed away.
以1999年席卷印度奥里萨邦并导致约1万人丧生的龙卷风为例。三分之一的死者来自拒绝离开沿海村庄的渔民家庭，因为这些人认为，这是把他们从自己搭建棚屋的政府地块上驱逐出去的把戏。结果，这些居民区被夷为平地。
Fears of displacement by government officials and developers are not unfounded. In the Philippine city of Tacloban, which was ravaged by Typhoon Haiyan, government officials are considering buying a six-acre parcel that was a squatter camp and preventing reconstruction. This is just one of many reported cases of efforts to seize valuable land vacated by occupants who fled Haiyan and lacked legal title.
对政府和开发商赶人的担忧并非无凭无据。在台风海燕肆虐过的菲律宾塔克洛班市，政府官员正在考虑，在之前的棚户区所在地购买一片6英亩（约合2.4公顷）的地，并阻止该处的重建。有许多报道披露，因躲避海燕而离开不合法居住地的居民，面临着宝贵土地被收回的种种情况，而上述事件仅为其中一例。
Likewise, consider the situation in Haiti. Almost four years after a powerful earthquake struck the island nation, more than 100,000 people, the majority of them poor and landless, remain in tents or other temporary shelters, and many others have moved in with relatives.
与之类似的事情还发生在海地。距离重创该岛国的强烈地震已经过去快四年了，却仍有超过10万人住在帐篷等临时庇护所里，其中多数是无地的穷人，另有不少人搬去了亲戚家中。
A key factor hampering rebuilding efforts is the lack of secure land rights among the displaced. A 2012 report by the London-based Overseas Development Institute described a “chaotic” and “almost Kafka-esque” land tenure system in Haiti in which “it is almost impossible to know definitely who owns what.”
阻碍重建努力的一个关键因素是流离失所者没有地权的保障。伦敦的海外发展研究所(Overseas Development Institute)2012年发布了一份报告，描述了海地“混乱”、“堪称卡夫卡式”的土地保有权制度，让人们“几乎不可能明确知晓谁拥有什么。”
Time and again, those who have the least lose the most. But it doesn’t have to be this way.
一次又一次，拥有最少的人失去得最多。可是，明明有别的路可走。
In the Indonesian province of Aceh, devastated by a tsunami in 2004, the government relief effort initially fell short. Displaced renters and squatters received only small cash payments to buy building materials or to pay rent, while landowners received new homes.
在2004年遭海啸重创的印尼亚齐省，政府的救灾行动一开始并不成功。失去家园的棚户和租户只得到了少许现金来购买建筑材料或支付租金，土地所有人则获得了崭新的房屋。
Years later, tens of thousands of squatters and renters were still living in squalor in temporary barracks. Protests ensued, and government officials agreed to provide them with new homes built either at the sites of their old homes or in new locations — all with secure title to the land.
多年后，上万的棚户和租户仍然居住在条件恶劣的临时营地，于是不可避免地爆发了抗议活动。政府官员同意，向他们提供新房，要么建在老房的旧址上，要么安置到新的地方，而且都带有明确的地权。
Aceh has since made a remarkable recovery. The region is at peace, the economy is growing, life expectancy is increasing and poverty is falling. While providing the poor with secure land rights was not solely responsible for the progress, the recovery could not have been achieved until the fundamental issue of land rights was addressed.
亚齐省自此取得了惊人的复苏。地区和平、经济增长、人口预期寿命持续升高，而贫困在日益减少。尽管赋予穷人地权保障并不是取得这种进步的唯一因素，但是，假如没有处理地权问题，这样的复苏是不可能完成的。
The recent disaster in the Philippines could provide the opportunity for the country to sweep away the biggest roadblock to growth and stability there — the widespread lack of landownership among the poor.
菲律宾最近经受的灾害，可以为该国提供一个扫平增长与稳定的最大障碍的机会。这个障碍就是穷人当中普遍缺乏土地所有权。
The international community should seize this moment, as aid continues to pour in, to press for enforcement of the country’s long-ignored land tenure reform laws. These laws call for government distribution to the poor of large swaths of public land, and for purchase and distribution of certain private land (including idle or abandoned property and bankrupt plantations). The landowning elite has resisted these reforms, but implementing them will help the country and its landless poor recover and prosper.
随着援助的持续涌入，国际社会应当抓住这一机遇，施加压力，让菲律宾切实施行长期遭到忽视的改革土地保有权的法规。这些法规不仅呼吁政府将大片的公共土地分配给穷人，还呼吁购买并分配某些私人土地（包括闲置或废弃的地产，以及破产的种植园。）拥有土地的权贵阶层一直抵制这些改革，但执行改革将帮助菲律宾及其无地的穷人休养生息并蓬勃发展。