Linneah sat at a desk at the Center for Sexual Medicine at Sheppard Pratt in the suburbs of Baltimore and filled out a questionnaire. She read briskly, making swift checks beside her selected answers, and when she was finished, she handed the pages across the desk to Martina Miller, who gave her a round of pills.
莉妮娅(Linneah)坐在巴尔的摩郊区沙普·普拉特健康系统(Sheppard Pratt)性医学中心的桌子旁边。她一目十行地浏览问卷，迅速检查了一遍自己选择的答案，完成后，她将这几张纸递给了对面坐着的玛蒂娜·米勒(Martina Miller)，对方给了她一个疗程的药。
The pills were either a placebo or a new drug called Lybrido, created to stoke sexual desire in women. Checking her computer, Miller pointed out gently that Linneah hadn’t been doing her duty as a study participant. Over the past eight weeks, she took the tablets before she planned to have sex, and for every time she put a pill on her tongue, she was supposed to make an entry in her online diary about her level of lust.
这些药可能是安慰剂，也可能是一种名为“力比多”(Lybrido)、用来激发女性性欲的新药。米勒查看了她的电脑，语气温和地向莉妮娅指出，作为研究参试者，她没有完成她的责任。在过去这八周里，她需要在计划做爱前服食药丸，而每次将药含到舌下时，她应当在个人的在线日记上写明当时自己性欲的程度。
“I know, I know,” Linneah said. She is a 44-year-old part-time elementary-school teacher, and that day she wore red pants and a canary yellow scarf. (She asked that only a nickname be used to protect her privacy.) “It’s a mess. I keep forgetting.”
“我知道，我知道，”莉妮娅说。她44岁，是兼职小学老师，这天她穿着红裤子，系着条淡黄色的围巾。（为保护个人隐私，她要求本文只使用她的昵称。）“全乱套了。我老是记不住。”
Miller, a study coordinator, began a short interview, typing Linneah’s replies into a database that the medication’s Dutch inventor, Adriaan Tuiten, will present to the Food and Drug Administration this summer or fall as part of his campaign to win the agency’s approval and begin marketing what might become the first female-desire drug in America. “Thinking about your desire now,” Miller said, “would you say it is absent, very low, low, reasonable or present?”
作为研究协调员，米勒开始对莉妮娅进行一个简短的访谈，在数据库上录入她的回答，在今年夏天或秋天，这种新药的荷兰发明人艾德兰·图伊腾(Adriaan Tuiten)将把数据库递交给美国食品与药品监督局(Food and Drug Administration, FDA)，以期获得批文，开始对这种可能是美国市场上的首个女性性欲药品进行推广。“想一想你目前的性欲，”米勒说：“你会形容它的程度是下面哪一种：完全没有、极低、低、合理，还是存在的？”
“Low."This was no different from Linneah’s reply at the trial’s outset two months before.
“低。”这跟两个月前测试刚刚开始时莉妮娅的回答并无二致。
“When your partner initiated sexual activity over the past eight weeks, did you show avoidance behavior?”
“在过去这八周里，当你的伴侣主动挑起性行为时，你会出现回避行为吗？”
“Yes.”
“是的。”
“Like earlier to bed?”
“就比如，会早早上床睡觉？”
“Yes.” Linneah’s voice lurched louder; she laughed; it was a relief to talk bluntly.
“是的。”莉妮娅的嗓门一下子变大了；她笑了起来；能开诚布公地谈起这件事，真的是种解脱。
“Do you have pleasant feelings when you’re touched?”
“当你被抚摸时，会产生愉悦感吗？”
“Yes.”
“是的。”
Later, after her appointment, she told me that in fact she has orgasms pretty much every time she and her husband have sex — that wasn’t the problem. “There’s something that’s stopping me from wanting it,” she said. “I don’t know what it is. I can’t tell you what it is.”
在这次面谈结束后，莉妮娅告诉我，事实上几乎每次和丈夫做爱，她都能达到高潮——这方面并不是问题。“可是有些事情在阻止我，让我不想要，”她说：“我不知道这是什么。我没法跟你说清楚。”
She met her husband at a bar nearly two decades ago: she joked with him over a foosball table, watched him clown on the dance floor. “I had a professor at college who talked about ‘the attraction template.’ My husband’s right inside my attraction template,” she said. She remembered his dark hair, his boyish looks, the way she’d felt they fit together, because they were both on the short side. “And he’s a stand-up guy. He has an excellent sense of what’s right and what’s wrong. He can make fun but not in a way that hurts anyone.”
将近20年前，她在酒吧里遇见了她的丈夫。她跟他坐在一张桌上足球台边上开着玩笑，看着他在舞池上笨拙地跳着舞。“读大学时，有位教授曾跟我们说起过‘吸引力模板’。我丈夫就恰恰完全处在我的吸引力模板里面，”她说。她还记得他的黑头发，他孩子气的长相，她对他们天生一对的感觉，因为他俩都是矮个子。“而且他为人很正直，对孰是孰非有着极好的判断力。他也会开玩笑，但这种玩笑不会伤害到任何人。”
When they were dating and out with other couples, Linneah would think, “I just want to get home with him, I just want to get home with him,” she recalled. But that lust had dwindled. Around the arrival of their second child in 2004, something insidious crept in, partly fatigue but partly something else that she couldn’t name. She talked about her to-do lists, the demands of the kids, “but let’s face it,” she said, “sex doesn’t take that much time.” Rather than feeling as if she still wanted to grab her husband’s hand and hurry him up the stairs in their small brick house, on many nights she waited in bed, somewhat like prey, though the predator was tender, though he was cherished.
当他们在约会，和其他情侣一起出去玩时，莉妮娅会想，“我就想和他一起回家，就想和他一起回家，”她回忆说。可是这样的欲望在慢慢消褪。2004年，在他们的第二个孩子出生时，某种东西在暗中一点点潜入，部分是因为疲惫，可是部分则源于她说不清道不明的别的什么东西。她谈到了自己有一大堆事情要做，谈到了孩子们的需要，“可是让我们面对它吧，”她说：“做个爱并不需要花那么长时间。”她再也不会像从前那样，想要握住丈夫的手，急急忙忙地拉着她冲向他们这幢小砖房子的楼梯前，现在，很多个晚上她在床上静静等待，有时候她觉得自己像头猎物，尽管捕食者十分温柔，尽管他仍是她的爱人。
Around once a week, her husband tried to reach through the invisible barriers she built — the going up to bed early, the intense concentration on a book, the hoping he was too tired to want anything but sleep. “He’ll move closer to me in bed, or put his arm around me, or rub my back.” She willed herself not to refuse him. And mostly, she didn’t. Usually they had sex about four times each month. But it upset her that she had to force herself and that she put up those barriers to deter him from reaching more often.
每周差不多有一次，她的丈夫想要突破她建立起来的看不见的屏障——早早上床睡觉，专心致志地看一本书，希望他太累了，除了睡觉其他什么都不想做。“他会在床上贴近我，要么伸手抱住我，要么轻轻抚摸我的后背。”她尽可能不去拒绝他。而且大部分时候，她确实没有拒绝。他们通常一个月做四次爱。不过让她感到郁闷的是，她必须要强迫自己，而且她设立了那么多屏障，令他无法更频繁地索取。
“I’m scared that if it’s slimmed to this by now, what’s going to happen as we get older?” she said. “I want to stay close, not just psychologically, physically. I want to stay in love. I have a friend, they have sex so intermittently, every three months. She is so unhappy. I don’t want that to happen to me.” She longed for a cure, a tab of magic. As she got into her car in the parking lot at the center, she hoped that her first set of pills had been placebos, that she’d been given fakes for the first eight weeks, that today she was driving away with the real drug and that their sex life would be transformed.
“我很害怕，如果现在我们的性生活已经缩减到这种地步了，那到老时会怎么样？”她说：“我想要保持亲密，不仅仅是心理上的亲密，还有身体上的。我想要我们一直相爱。我有个朋友，她和伴侣的性生活少得可怜，三个月才有一次。她特别不开心。我不想让自己也遇到这种事情。”她渴望获得治疗，得到魔法庇护。在向停车场走去时，她跟我说，她希望最开始服用的这个疗程药物是安慰剂，希望在最初的这八个星期里她吃的并不是真正的药，希望今天当她开车回家时，带着的是真正的药，而她与丈夫的性生活将从此焕然一新。
Half a century ago, the birth-control pill offered women the ability to switch off ovulation, to separate sex from reproduction. It played a part, as the ‘60s got under way, in propelling a host of profound changes, cultural as well as reproductive, societal as well as intimate — in how women saw themselves and lived their lives, starting with the notion of women being above all baby makers and mothers. The promise of Lybrido and of a similar medication called Lybridos, which Tuiten also has in trials, or of whatever chemical finally wins the race for F.D.A. approval, is that it will be possible to take a next step, to give women the power to switch on lust, to free desire from the obstacles that get in its way. “Female Viagra” is the way drugs like Lybrido and Lybridos tend to be discussed. But this is a misconception. Viagra meddles with the arteries; it causes physical shifts that allow the penis to rise. A female-desire drug would be something else. It would adjust the primal and executive regions of the brain. It would reach into the psyche.
半个世纪前，避孕药令女性有能力自主调整排卵期，并将性与生育分开。随着20世纪60年代滚滚而来，它改变了女性首先是繁殖机器与母亲的理念，进而从女性如何看待自己，如何生活这方面，参与推动了一系列文化与生育，社会与亲密关系的显著变化。“力比多”与另一种类似的，同样由图伊腾进行临床测试的药品“力比多斯”(Lybridos)，或者任何一种有望最终在获得美国FDA批文赛跑中大获全胜的药物，将有可能让人们前进一大步，赋予女性开启性欲的权利，清除各种无法自由获得性欲的障碍。像力比多和力比多斯这种新药，往往会在各种讨论中被人称作“女性万艾可(Viagra)”。但这是种误解。万艾可是对动脉起作用；它所引发的是使阴茎勃起的生理变化。而女性性欲药是一种截然不同的药物。它调整的是大脑主要的和负责执行的区域。它将进达灵魂深处。
Beckoned by ads on the radio and in newspapers and on Craigslist, in the fall of 2011 women across America began applying to be among the 420 subjects in the Lybrido and Lybridos studies. Plenty were turned away when the trials filled. Lack of lust, when it creates emotional distress, meets the psychiatric profession’s clinical criteria for H.S.D.D., or hypoactive sexual-desire disorder. Researchers have set its prevalence among women between the ages of about 20 and 60 at between 10 and 15 percent. When you count the women who don’t quite meet the elaborate clinical threshold, the rate rises to around 30 percent. For a minor fraction of all the sexually indifferent (or repelled), the condition has been lifelong, regardless of whom they’re with or how long they’ve been with them. For middle-aged or older women, menopause and its aftermath may play a role, though its importance is much debated. For a sizable segment of the undesiring, the most common antidepressants, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, can be the culprit. Millions of American women are on S.S.R.I.'s, and many of them would have good use for a pill to revive the libido that has been chemically dulled as a side effect of the pill they take to buoy their mood.
2011年秋季，受到电台、报纸和Craiglist网站广告召唤，遍布美国各地的女性开始报名应征，希望进入“力比多”和“力比多斯”两项研究的420名受试者之列。随着报名结束，有很多应征者遭到拒绝。如果缺乏性欲导致情感抑郁，就达到了精神科医生对性欲减退症（hypoactive sexual-desire disorder，简称H.S.D.D.）的临床标准，那么研究人员相信，在20到60岁的女性中，这种病症的比例为10-15%。如果你把那些并未完全达到复杂的临床诊断标准的女性算上，这个比例还可升至30%左右。对于所有性冷淡（或性抗拒）患者，其中有一小部分人的症状将伴其一生，跟她们与谁在一起，或者跟对方共度的时长都没有关系。对于中老年女性，绝经和随之出现的反应可能会对性欲产生一定的影响，不过对其的重要性，人们尚存很多争议。在导致性欲减退的原因里，有相当大的比例是与最常见的抗抑郁药选择性5-羟色胺再吸收抑制剂（selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors，简称S.S.R.I.）有关。有上百万美国女性目前在服用S.S.R.I.，而其中又有不少人因为需要服用该药来振奋精神，要服用别的药物来重拾被药物副作用影响的性欲。
But for many women, the cause of their sexual malaise appears to be monogamy itself. It is women much more than men who have H.S.D.D., who don’t feel heat for their steady partners. Evolutionary psychologists argue that this comes down to innate biology, that men are just made with stronger sex drives — so men will settle for the woman who’s always near. But the evidence for an inborn disparity in sexual motivation is debatable. A meta-analysis done by the psychologists Janet Hyde and Jennifer L. Petersen at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, incorporates more than 800 studies conducted between 1993 and 2007. It suggests that the very statistics evolutionary psychologists use to prove innate difference — like number of sexual partners or rates of masturbation — are heavily influenced by culture. All scientists really know is that the disparity in desire exists, at least after a relationship has lasted a while.
但对很多女性来说，出现性欲不振的主因看来恰恰是一夫一妻制度本身。出现性欲减退症的女性要远多于男性，对于稳定的性伴侣，女性往往感觉不到激情了。进化心理学家认为，这得归结于固有的生物学，男性生来就拥有更强的性欲——所以只要身旁有女人，男人就可以满足。可是两性间性冲动的先天差异，其证据还悬而未决。威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin, Madison)的心理学家简妮特·海德(Janet Hyde)和詹妮弗·L·彼得森(Jennifer L. Petersen)曾做过一项荟萃分析，集中审视了1993年至2007年间的800多项试验，结果显示，进化心理学家拿来证明先天差异的数据——比如性伴侣数量或自慰次数——受到了文化的强烈影响。现在所有科学家都确认一点，那就是的确存在性欲的两性差异，至少在关系维系了一段时期后是存在的。
Dietrich Klusmann, a psychologist at the University of Hamburg-Eppendorf in Germany, has provided a glimpse into the bedrooms of longtime couples. His surveys, involving a total of almost 2,500 subjects, comprise one of the few systematic comparisons of female and male desire at progressive stages of committed relationships. He shows women and men in new relationships reporting, on average, more or less equal lust for each other. But for women who’ve been with their partners between one and four years, a dive begins — and continues, leaving male desire far higher. (Within this plunge, there is a notable pattern: over time, women who don’t live with their partners retain their desire much more than women who do.)
汉堡-埃彭多夫大学(University of Hamburg-Eppendorf)的心理学家迪特里希·克鲁斯曼(Dietrich Klusmann)令人们得以一窥持久伴侣的卧室。对处在承诺型性关系进展阶段的男性和女性性欲进行的系统对比研究极其少见，而他这项涉及了近2500名对象的调查就是其中之一。他发现，进入新恋情的男性和女性平均而言，对彼此的性欲基本是持平的。可是女性与伴侣的关系进入到一至四年时，性欲就出现暴跌——而且这种趋势是持续的，这使得男性的性欲要远高于对方。（在这种暴跌中还有个值得注意的模式：随着时间推移，那些不与伴侣同居的女性性欲维持的水平要远高于比起与伴侣同居的女性。）
Lesbian couples seem to fare no better, and maybe worse, in keeping their sexual ardor for each other. The term “lesbian bed death,” coined by the University of Washington sociologist Pepper Schwartz in the ‘80s, has been critiqued as overstatement but not quite as fiction. “In the lesbian community, the monogamy problem is being aired more and more,” Lisa Diamond, a professor of psychology and gender studies at the University of Utah, told me. “For years, gay men have been making open arrangements for sex outside the couple. Now, increasingly, gay women are doing it.”
在维持对彼此的性狂热方面，女同性恋情侣看来情况并没有更好。在20世纪90年代，华盛顿大学(University of Washington)社会学家佩珀·施沃茨(Pepper Schwartz)发明了一个术语，叫“女同性恋的床笫之死”，这个词被人指责太夸张了，不过倒并不是无中生有。“在女同性恋社群里，一夫一妻制问题出现的问题越来越多，”犹他州大学(University of Utah)的心理学和性别研究教授丽莎·戴蒙德(Lisa Diamond)告诉我：“多年来，男同性恋对超出情侣范围之外的性关系会做出公开的安排。而现在，越来越多的女同性恋也在这么做。”
Klusmann’s results are echoed by Lori Brotto, a psychologist at the University of British Columbia who has worked clinically with scores of H.S.D.D. patients and who recently led the American Psychiatric Association’s attempt to better delineate the condition in The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. (H.S.D.D. is being reconceived as sexual interest/arousal disorder, S.I.A.D.) “The impact of relationship duration is something that comes up constantly,” she told me about her therapy sessions. “Sometimes I wonder whether it” — H.S.D.D. — “isn’t so much about libido as it is about boredom.”
克鲁斯曼的研究发现得到了洛丽·布罗托(Lori Brotto)的共鸣，这位英属哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)的心理学家在临床工作中接触到了大量性欲减退症患者，她近期带领美国精神病学会(American Psychiatric Association)，试图对精神扮演诊断和统计手册中出现的症状做出最准确的描述。（性欲减退症将被重新视为性兴趣/兴奋障碍，简称S.I.A.D.）。布罗托在谈起她的心理治疗时说：“在我们的治疗中，常常会讨论到性关系持续时间带来的影响。有时我会想，它（指性欲减退症）跟性欲的关系，并不如跟厌倦的情绪关系那么大。”
But desire resists comprehension. Whether it is mainly a raw drive or a complex emotion is a question that has bedeviled psychiatry for decades. And the fading of desire can seem impossibly intricate. Is it a result of a lack of intimacy or its cause? One theory holds that it’s a challenge for both sexes to maintain passion over the long-term because it’s threatening to desire the same person from whom we seek security and true understanding. It leaves us feeling too vulnerable. As Stephen A. Mitchell, one of the leaders of relational psychoanalysis, described it: “Sustaining desire for something important from someone important is the central danger of emotional life. What is so dangerous about desiring someone you have is that you can lose him or her.” Mitchell argued that ultimately the emotional meshing and vulnerability of committed relationships can become the most rewarding source of eros. Esther Perel, a couples therapist and author of “Mating in Captivity,” emphasizes a separateness at the heart of longstanding passion. “Many couples confuse love with merging,” she writes. “This mix-up is a bad omen for sex. To sustain élan toward the other, there must be a synapse to cross. Eroticism requires distance.”
但是，欲望会抵制理解。究竟主因缘于原始的性欲还是复杂的情感，这个问题困扰了精神病学数十载。同时，欲望衰退是个极度令人费解的谜题。它是双方缺乏亲密感的原因抑或结果？有一种理论认为，对于两性来说，长期保持热情都是个挑战，因为在从某人那里寻求安全感和真正的理解的同时，又要保持对对方的欲望，这是个危险之举。这会令我们自己感觉不堪一击。关系精神分析的领军人物之一斯蒂芬·米切尔(Stephen A. Mitchell)形容说：“在感情生活中，对某个重要的人保持某种重要的欲望，这是险中之险。向你拥有的某人怀有欲望之所以如此危险，在于你可能将失去他或她。”米切尔认为，承诺型关系的情感磨合与脆弱性，最终可以成为性爱最具回报的源泉。艾斯特·佩瑞尔(Esther Perel)是夫妻治疗师，著有《禁室交配》(Mating in Captivity)一书，她强调说，长期激情的核心是保持独立。“很多情侣将爱跟融合混淆了，”她在书中写道：“融为一体是性爱的不祥之兆。想要保持对另一半的激情，就必须穿越两人的交融点。性爱需要距离。”
“What protects desire in monogamous partnerships is a great empirical question,” Brotto said. “I don’t think there have been any good studies.”
“在一夫一妻制的伴侣关系中，可以靠什么来保护激情，这是个巨大的实证难题，”布罗托说：“我认为目前在这个领域还没有什么出色的研究。”
Brotto, who is married and has three children, went on: “I’m a woman in a long-term monogamous relationship. I myself have felt firsthand very high passionate desire, which then wanes. I can relate to my patients completely.” Sometimes she discusses the option of open relationships. But even to contemplate this alternative is to ignite fears in both women and men, and those override the pining for lust.
布罗托本人已婚，育有三个孩子，她进一步说：“我是个身处长期一夫一妻制关系中的女性。我亲身体会到起初极度高涨的激情，随后它开始一点点褪色。我跟我的病人们十分有共鸣。”有时，她会论及开放关系的可能性。可是就算只是想想这个选项，也会令男女双方惶恐不安，而这会超越对性欲的渴望。
How much easier it would be if we could solve the insoluble by getting a prescription, stopping off at the drugstore and swallowing a pill.
如果得到张处方，去趟药店，再吞下一粒药丸，就能将这样棘手的问题解决，那该是多么轻松的事情啊。
I watched the initial stage of the Lybrido and Lybridos trials at the offices of Dr. Andrew Goldstein, a gynecologist in Washington. Like the rest of the practitioners at the 16 research sites across the country that Adriaan Tuiten contracted to conduct the studies, Goldstein had to make sure that every applicant was in a stable relationship. Tuiten didn’t openly acknowledge monogamy as the core of the desire problem, but he knew he couldn’t use single subjects who might well find new lovers during the course of the trials. Their results might have to be tossed out because, with or without chemical aids, new lovers bring surges of lust.
在安德鲁·戈德斯坦(Andrew Goldstein)医生的诊室里，我观摩了“力比多”和“力比多斯”临床试验的早期阶段。和艾德兰·图伊腾在美国各地签约实施该项研究的16个研究场所的其他医生一样，戈德斯坦需要确保所有受试者都需要拥有稳定的关系。图伊腾并未公开承认一夫一妻制是性欲问题的核心所在，但他确信自己不应选用单身受试者，否则她们可能会在测试过程中找到新的情人。这部分人的测试结果可能必须作废，因为无论有没有药物帮助，新的情人都可能让人激情澎湃。
Goldstein was involved in other desire drug trials, then stopped taking part in them for a while, out of disappointment and frustration. He was optimistic, though, that Tuiten’s company, Emotional Brain, would succeed with the F.D.A.; Tuiten’s approach, he said, was far more scientifically “fine-tuned.” (He doesn’t stand to profit from Lybrido or Lybridos, he says; he is paid his usual fee for each subject’s office visit and also receives around $2,500 a year from Emotional Brain for occasional work on an advisory board.) He recounted for me the way his patients lament the disappearance of lust. “They use terms with real emphasis, words that are violent,” he said. " ‘This is like someone cut off my arm.’ ‘This is not how I see myself.’ ‘This is like something’s been ripped away from me. Stripped away. Stolen.’ ”
戈德斯坦也曾从事过其他性欲药的临床测试，但在历经失望与挫败后，一度停止参与测试。不过，对于图伊腾的公司“情绪大脑”(Emotional Brain)能成功获得FDA的批准，他表示乐观；他说，图伊腾的研发角度在科学上要远“精准”过以往药物。（他表示自己并不会从力比多或力比多斯项目中获利；他得到的收入就是每位受试者通常支付的门诊费用，此外他还为“情绪大脑”公司的顾问委员会偶尔做些工作，每年从该公司得到2500美元左右收入。）他向我讲述了病人们对性欲消失不见而表达的痛惜之词。“她们说的话语气十分严重，用的都是很强烈的字眼，”他说：“‘这种感觉，就像是有人将我的一只胳膊砍了下来。’‘我不应该是这样子的。’‘就好像有什么东西从我那里生生夺走。被剥夺。被偷走。’”
Among the applicants for the trials whom Goldstein interviewed was a law student. After five years with her boyfriend, she couldn’t trick herself into the desire for him she once felt; she could only trick him into believing she still felt it. “I don’t like to hurt his feelings,” she said. “I’m a team player.” There was a divorced mother of three who sensed herself slipping into the same sexual disinterest with her current partner that she recognized from the slow death of her marriage. “When we split up,” she said about her ex-husband, “it was like going through a second puberty. So I attributed what had gone missing to who he was.” She talked about the way her kids had always drained her energy, about getting her disabled son to his therapy appointments. But now that she was starting to feel sexually deadened with her boyfriend, she had doubts about those explanations.
在测试应征者中，戈德斯坦曾面试过一个法学生。在跟男朋友共度五年里，她再也无法欺骗自己相信对他依然保存着当初的欲望；她只能骗他相信她仍然还有感觉。“我不想伤害他的感情，”她说：“我很有团队精神。”还有一个带着三个孩子的离婚妈妈，她感觉在跟现在的伴侣一起时，自己也开始渐失性趣，而在自己的上一段婚姻慢慢走向死亡时，同样的事情她也曾经历过。“当我们分居时，”她这样说起前夫，“我感觉好像遭遇了第二次青春期。于是，我把失去的一切都归咎到他身上去。”她谈到了自己的孩子们如何耗尽了她的精力，谈到要将她残障的儿子一次次送去接受治疗。可是现在，当她开始觉察到与男友间的激情开始消失时，她对自己的种种解释产生了疑问。
Every woman raised a mix of possible reasons. There were the demands of graduate school, the demands of children, the demands of work, medical issues, men who weren’t always as kind or nearly as engaged as they could be. But at bottom there seemed to be one common cause: they had all grown tired of sex with their long-term partners.
每位女性都会提出各种可能的原因。要面对读研的需求，孩子们的需求，工作的需求，各种健康问题，男方并没有一如既往的好脾气，或者对感情没有保持应有的投入。但说到底，她们看来有一个共同的原因：她们都对与长期性伴侣做爱感到厌倦了。
“I just want to know,” a woman asked Goldstein at the end of her interview, after talking about the man she’d spent the last several loving years with, “is this medicine going to work? Am I going to get my freak back?”
“我就想知道，”一位女士说到了曾共度几年亲密时光的男人，在访问即将结束时她问戈德斯坦，“这种药有用吗？我可以恢复正常吗？”
One subject in the study was Zita, a 31-year-old who favors frilly blouses and wears a heart-shaped pendant, a gift from her husband. They’ve been married for 6 years, together for 11. “It was great,” she told me about their beginning. “We were like jackrabbits.” Then eagerness became avoidance: there was nighttime cleaning that had to be done, or homework for a physician’s-assistant course that couldn’t wait. She hoped her husband would be asleep by the time she slid into bed. She still found him attractive, “but I don’t know, I don’t know how to explain it. Over time, his sex drive decreased a little, and mine decreased kind of drastically.” The couple had tried some role playing, without much effect for her. One day she was on Craigslist and stumbled on the ad for the trials. She quickly signed up. When she told friends about it, they wanted in, too; they were distressed over the same decline. But there were no spots left.
研究的一位受试者是31岁的泽塔(Zita)，她喜欢镶褶边的衬衫，戴一枚心型吊坠，这是她丈夫送的礼物。他们已经结婚六年，在一起11年。“当时感觉非常好，”她跟我谈起他们刚在一起时的情形，“我俩就像一对长耳大野兔一样。”接着，渴望化为逃避：夜里总有卫生要打扫，或者是医师助理课程的作业再不做就要来不及了。她希望当自己悄悄钻到床上时，丈夫已经睡着了。她仍然觉得他很有魅力，“可是我不知道，我不知道该怎么解释。随着时间过去，他的性欲消退了一点点，而我的则是急剧下滑。”他俩尝试过角色扮演，可对她并没多少效果。有一天她正在上Craiglist，冷不丁看到了这项临床测试的广告。她立刻报了名。她跟朋友们提起此事，她们也想加入，因为她们同样因性欲下降而苦恼。但此时已经没有名额了。
Consider the lengths to which scientists go to try to understand the workings of female desire: Using a laboratory gadget that measures vaginal blood flow while women watch varieties of pornography. Having women wear headgear that tracks the precise movement of their pupils, hundreds of times per second, as they gaze at X-rated images. Studying female hamsters and even arachnids mating as a way to glean insight into women’s sexual psyches. Wiring women’s necks and forearms to what they are told is a polygraph machine while they fill out surveys about their sex lives, their answers then compared with those of women who aren’t wired up — and compared in turn with the responses of men. These are all attempts to see around or beneath the societal messages and cultural influences that may distort women’s sexuality and constrain its expression, even in our seemingly unconstrained times. (Yes, the lie detector had a much bigger effect on the women than the men, greatly increasing the number of partners women said they’d had sex with.)
想想看，科学家花费了多少时间试图理解女性欲望的机制：在女性观看各类型色情片时，使用实验室器具来测量阴道血流量。在女性观看限制级的画面时，头上戴着可以每秒上百次精确纪录其瞳孔活动的装置。研究雌仓鼠甚至雌蜘蛛交配，用来一窥女性的性心理。给女性脖子和前臂接上线，并告知她们连接上了测谎仪，同时让她们填写有关性生活的调查问卷，再将她们的答案与没有联上线的女性做比较，接下来再跟男性的回答进行比对。研究者希望通过这些尝试，了解可能改变女性性欲、限制其自由表达——哪怕是在我们这个貌似无拘无束的时代——的社会信息和文化影响。（是的，测谎仪对女性的影响远比对男性大，会大幅提高女性透露的性伙伴总数。）
The equipment can seem bizarre and the laboratory situations comical — picture a woman in a lounge chair with her pants around her knees, a tampon-shaped tube in her vagina and a cord running from this device to a console while she stares at a video of gay men partaking in foreplay — but then, sex research has always had an absurd if valiant quality. In the ‘50s and ‘60s, William H. Masters and Virginia E. Johnson filmed and observed hundreds of subjects having intercourse in their lab, in an effort to determine whether all female climaxes are clitoral in origin. That debate goes on even today. Barry Komisaruk, a neuroscientist at Rutgers University, buys plastic rods, heats them in his oven at home, bends them into dildos shaped to isolate different genital sensations and aims to settle the orgasm question once and for all.
使用的设备看起来可能很古怪，而实验室的环境令人忍俊不禁——设想一位女士坐在沙发椅上，裤子褪到膝盖上，一个像卫生棉条形状的管子插进阴道，一条线连接着管子和控制台，而她眼前播放的视频正演到几个同性恋男人参与前戏——可是，性研究一直都显得这么荒唐，同时却又英勇。在上世纪50年代和60年代，威廉·马斯特斯(William H. Masters)和维吉妮娅·约翰逊(Virginia E. Johnson)在实验室里，拍摄和观察了上百位受试者性交的画面，想要确定是不是所有女性的性高潮都来自阴蒂。有关这个问题的争议甚至一直延续至今。罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的神经系统科学家巴里·科米萨鲁克(Barry Komisaruk)购买了塑料棍，在自家烤箱里加热，将它们拧弯做成可孤立刺激阴道不同位置的假阳具，目的是将性高潮的来源问题做个最终了断。
One general principle about women’s desire has been widely embraced since at least as far back as Victorian times and prevails still: that female eros is, innately, much less promiscuous — much more dependent on commitment and trust, much more sparked by closeness, much better suited to constancy — than male sexuality. It has surely been comforting to anyone concerned with the preservation of social order to think that, a few exceptions aside, half the population has a natural predisposition toward sexual stability. In recent decades, this idea has been bolstered by evolutionary psychologists, whose “parental investment theory” goes like this: because men have limitless sperm while women have limited eggs, because men don’t have to invest much in reproduction while women invest not just their ova but also their bodies as they take on the tolls and risks of pregnancy and childbirth, males have been hard-wired, since eons ago, to expand their genetic legacy by spreading their cheap seed, while females are inherently made to maximize their investment by being choosy, by securing a male likely to be a good long-term provider.
关于女性的性欲，有一项普遍原理早在维多利亚时代起就受到了广泛推崇，至今仍然盛行不衰：相比男性的性欲，女性的性欲天生不那么淫乱，相反，它更依赖承诺与信任，更易因亲密而点燃，更适应坚贞不变的关系。任何关注保护公序良俗的人，想到此恐怕都会备感安慰：除了少数例外，有一半人口拥有天生的性稳定倾向。最近几十年来，这种理论还得到了进化心理学家的支持，他们所持的“亲本投资理论”(parental investment theory)是这样认为的：由于男性精子数量无穷多，而女性的卵子数量有限，又由于男性在生殖中无需付出多少投资，而女性不仅要投入卵子，在怀孕和生产时她们的身体还要付出各种代价并承受风险，因此男性自远古时代起就有通过传播廉价的种籽，而四处散播基因遗产的天性，而女性天生挑剔，她们要确保找到一位有可能长期养家的男人来将个人投资最大化。
The logic turns our assumptions about male and female sexuality into inborn inevitabilities. But to read the journal articles that promote this line of reasoning is to see the flimsiness of its foundation. In a seminal 1993 paper, whose conclusions have made their way from academia into popular consciousness, David M. Buss and David P. Schmitt, psychology professors now at the University of Texas at Austin and at Bradley University in Peoria, Ill., highlighted research showing that, in comparison to college-age men, college-age women say they want far fewer sexual partners over the course of their lifetimes. Similar evidence runs throughout the article. But what exactly does this type of data demonstrate: that women are innately less promiscuous in their longings than men, or that women are taught to feel that they should be?
这种逻辑，将我们对男女两性性欲的推想，转变为与生俱来的必然性。可是读一读鼓吹这种论证思路的学术论文就会发现，它的立论十分薄弱。在1993年的一份经典论文中，目前分别在得克萨斯州州立大学(University of Texas)奥斯汀分校和布拉德利大学(Bradley University)任心理学教授的大卫·巴斯(David M. Buss)和大卫·施密特(David P. Schmitt)在研究中引人注目地指出，大学女生表示自己一辈子希望拥有的性伴侣数，要远远少于大学男生期望的数字，他们的文章结论也令他们一举从学术界跃入大众眼帘。在这篇文章中还有大量类似的证据。可是这类型的数据究竟意味着什么呢，是女性相比男性，天生不那么淫乱；还是女性受到教育后觉得自己理应如此？
Studies conducted recently are beginning to hint that female eros isn’t in the least programmed for fidelity. These range from close focus on the sexual habits of our primate ancestors to research exploring women’s wish for casual sex. An experiment led by Samantha Dawson, a Ph.D. student in clinical psychology at Queen’s University, in Kingston, Ontario, and another by Stephanie Both, a psychologist and assistant professor at Leiden University Medical Center in the Netherlands, looked at the issue in another way. Heterosexual women and men watched pornographic film clips while their vaginas and penises were monitored. The subjects watched a one-minute sex scene repeatedly, with breaks in between to let genital blood flow return to a baseline state. Dawson’s and Both’s results show women’s responses leaping at first, then, in Dawson’s study, tracking the rapid downturn of the men, and in Both’s, plummeting while the men’s reactions stayed surprisingly constant. When the researchers introduced what are called “novel stimuli,” in this case new clips of pornography, “vaginal pulse amplitude,” like penile engorgement, spiked immediately.
近年来进行的试验开始提示我们：女性的性欲完全不是天生与忠贞结缘。这些试验跨度很大，从关注我们灵长目祖先的性习惯，到探索女性在随意性行为方面的意愿。其中一项试验由安大略省金斯敦市皇后大学(Queen's University)临床心理学系的博士生萨曼莎·道森(Samantha Dawson)领导，另一项由是由荷兰莱顿大学(Leiden University)医学系的心理学家、助理教授斯蒂芬妮·博特(Stephanie Both)进行，他们从另一个角度来分析这个问题。研究者让异性恋女性和男性观看色情电影片断，与此同时他们的阴道和阴茎受到了监控。受该者需要反复观看一分钟的性爱画面，中间可以休息一段时间，好让其阴部的血流恢复到基准状态。道森和博特的研究结果都显示，女性的最初血流反应会出现飙升，随后，在道森的研究中，男性和女性的阴部血液流速都急剧下降，而波特的研究则发现，女性的充血程度下跌，而男性的反应则出人意料地保持不变。而当研究者们向受试者提供了“新鲜的刺激”，也就是新的色情片片断时，“阴道脉冲幅度”跟阴茎充血一样，立刻重新激增。
In research published last year, Meredith Chivers, a psychologist at Queen’s University, played pornographic audiotapes for heterosexual women and compared, among other things, genital reactions to scenarios involving a handsome male stranger or a hunky male friend. The friends made the machine flatline. The strangers made it jump.
去年，皇后大学的心理学家梅瑞狄斯·奇弗斯(Meredith Chivers)发表了一项研究，参加试验的异性恋女性要观看色情片同时测量阴道反应，她们观看的画面中，既有英俊的男性陌生人，也有长相不错的男性友人。如果看到的是男性友人，监测器的指针一马平川。如果是陌生人，则会剧烈跳动。
How much can we extrapolate from studies like these? Maybe conclusions aren’t in order, but certainly we should doubt what evolutionary psychology has taught us.
从这些研究中，我们能得到什么结论呢？也许人们的结论并不统一，不过，有了这些研究，我们当然有必要去质疑进化心理学当年的说教。
The search for a female-desire drug has been an obsession of the pharmaceutical industry for more than a decade, largely because the release of Viagra, in 1998, showed that gigantic sums of money can be made with a quick chemical solution to sexual dysfunction. But while Viagra and its competitors deal with the simple hydraulics of impotence, the most troubling difficulty for men, the psychological complexity of depleted lust has so far defeated industry giants. Yet it’s important to note that Viagra isn’t entirely without influence on the mental state of desire. The mechanics of the body and the mysteries of the mind are intertwined. Give a man an erection, and his sensitized nerves and enhanced feelings of power are going to feed his drive. Women, research has shown, are less cognizant of genital arousal, and probably for this reason, Viagra-like substances haven’t done enough to raise women’s ratings of desire in past experiments, even while the chemicals have added to blood flow. Tuiten’s Lybrido employs a Viagra-like chemical as one-half of its arsenal, in the hope that it will be effective in combination with a substance that more directly targets the brain.
制药业已经执着寻找了十多年的女性性欲药，其中一个主要原因是在1998年万艾可面市，它证明用药物快速解决性功能障碍，可以带来巨额的市场效益。但是，万艾可和其竞争者应对的是性功能障碍的简单液压学问题，而这也是男性性功能障碍最为令人困扰的难题，而性欲缺乏这种复杂的心理问题，至今一直让制药业巨头们大为挫败。不过有一点很重要：万艾可也并非对性欲的心理状态毫无影响。身体的机制与心理的谜团是互相交织的。让男人得到一次勃起，他重生的神经和加强的权力感可以进而滋养他的欲望。而研究已经表明，女性较少意识到对外阴的刺激，也许正因为如此，类似万艾可这种药物在过去的几项试验中，虽然能增加女性生殖器的血流量，但还不足以提高其性欲水平。图伊腾的“力比多”中，一半成份是类似万艾可的化合物，以期它能和一种更加直击大脑的成份组合在一起后可以起效。
When Tuiten, a disheveled, youthful 58-year-old, told me the story of how he conceived of Lybrido and Lybridos, there was something sad and funny and metaphorically perfect about it — it was a tale of scientific ingenuity stemming from a young man’s broken heart. Tuiten was in his mid-20s when his girlfriend, a woman he’d been in love with since he was 13, abruptly decided to leave him. “I was — flabbergasted. You can say that?” he asked me, making sure, in his choppy English, that he was using the right word. “I was shocked. I was suffering.” He was an older university student at the time; before that, he’d been a furniture maker. The breakup inspired a lifelong quest to comprehend female emotion through biochemistry and led to his career as a psychopharmacologist. “I’m a little bit — not insane,” Tuiten said. “But. There became a need for me to understand my personal life in this way.”
图伊腾现年58岁，看起来衣冠不整，比他的实际年龄更年轻，他跟我讲述了自己如何发明“力比多”和“力比多斯”的故事，这故事听来既伤感又滑稽，带着完美的隐喻——它讲述的是一个科学天才设想如何从一个年轻人破碎的心中孕育出来的神话。在图伊腾20多岁时，自从他13岁就与他相爱的那个女人突然决定要离开他。“我当时——目瞪口呆。用这个词对吗？”他用断断续续的英语这样问我，好确认自己用的字眼没有错。“我很震惊。我很痛苦。”他当时是个年纪蛮大的大学生；在此之前，他是做家具的。这次分手令他灵光乍现，决定要终其一生，从生物化学的机理来理解女人的情绪，他也因此走上了精神病药理学家的职业道路。“我这人有点儿——不是说疯疯颠颠，”图伊腾说：“但是，我需要从这个角度来理解我个人的生活。”
The neural networks of eros, though, are only vaguely known. Tiny subregions and crucial pathways in the brain have been identified — blurrily, speculatively. Some progress has been made by looking at what sites in the brain light up when people watch slide shows of pornography while lying in magnetic-resonance-imaging cylinders. But the images just aren’t exact enough. The brain’s interwoven networks are too intricate for the technology to properly view them.
可是，对于性欲的神经网络，人们知之甚少。研究者发现了大脑相关的微小亚区和关键通路——但只是猜测性的、并不十分确定。科学家还请志愿者躺在磁共振成像仪器里观看色情画面的幻灯片，了解他们大脑的哪个区域突然被“点亮”。但成像结果同样并不精确。大脑的网络彼此交织，实在是太复杂了，科技尚无法准确描绘它们。
So we rely on rats. And one of the world’s masters of rat lust is Jim Pfaus, a professor of psychology and neuroscience at Concordia University in Montreal, who wears hoop earrings and used to sing in a punk band called Mold. The various drug companies, including Tuiten’s, regularly consult with him. A few floors below his office, hundreds of rats court and mate in stacks of Plexiglas cages. Pfaus and his grad students inject the rodents with this or that compound to block one aspect of desire’s biochemistry and isolate another. Or they kill the rats right after a moment of craving or copulation. The brain is then extracted, frozen and shaved into wafers, microns thin, by a device resembling a mini cold-cut slicer. Pfaus peers at these specimens under a microscope to figure out which clusters of neural cells went into metabolic overdrive while the rodent was in a sexual frenzy.
所以我们得依靠大鼠。在全世界，大鼠性欲研究的宗师级人物是蒙特利尔康考迪亚大学(Concordia University)心理学教授、神经科学家吉姆·普福斯(Jim Pfaus)，他戴着大耳环，曾在一支名叫“Mold”的朋克乐队里任歌手。包括图伊腾公司在内的多家制药公司，都会定期去向他请教问题。在他办公室楼下，几百只大鼠在层层堆起来的树脂玻璃箱里求偶交配。普福斯和他的研究生们会在大鼠身上注射这种或那种化合物，以阻滞性欲生物化学机制的某个方面，同时孤立别的方面。要么，他们会在大鼠求偶或交配后立刻杀死它们。随后，他们将大脑切除、冷冻，再用一种类似小型冻肉切片机的设备将它们切成几微米那么薄。普福斯在显微镜下观察标本，希望了解当鼠类陷入意乱情迷之时，哪些神经细胞簇涌入了新陈代谢中。
As Pfaus explains it, sexual desire for both women and men seems to begin in two low-lying brain zones: the medial preoptic area, which looks like a pair of minuscule oblong balls, and the ventral tegmental area, which is shaped something like a canoe. From this primitive center, the neurotransmitter dopamine, the molecular essence of desire, radiates outward through the brain. “A dopamine rush is a lust-pleasure, it’s a heightening of everything,” Pfaus says. “It’s smelling a lover up close — a woman inhaling that T-shirt. . . . It’s wanting to have; it’s wanting more.”
普福斯解释说，男性与女性的性欲看来都肇始于大脑两个较为基础的区域：其一是内侧视前区，看起来像是两只极小的长椭圆形球，其二是腹侧被盖区，形状像是只独木舟。就是从这个原始中枢，性欲的分子核心——神经传递素多巴胺向外辐射自大脑各个部分。“多巴胺的涌动关乎的是性欲-快感，它加强了一切感觉，”普福斯说：“就比如闻到情人正在靠近，一位女人轻嗅意中人的T恤……它让人渴望拥有；它让人渴求更多。”
A number of other biochemical ingredients are critical to the most basic understanding of sexuality. But two of them — the hormone testosterone and the neurotransmitter serotonin — are especially important. Rising from the ovaries and from the adrenal glands that sit atop the kidneys, testosterone rides the bloodstream to the brain and, by means not fully known, stokes the production and release of dopamine. (Blood-borne estrogen, which derives from testosterone, may also be involved in this process.) And then there’s serotonin, dopamine’s foil. It allows the advanced regions of the brain, the domains that lie high and forward, to exert what is termed executive function. Serotonin is a molecule of self-control. It instills calm, stability, coherence (and, too, a sense of well-being, which is why S.S.R.I.'s, by bathing the brain in serotonin, can counter depression). Roughly speaking, dopamine is impulse; serotonin is inhibition and organization. And in sexuality, as in other emotional realms, the two have to work in balance. If dopamine is far too dominant, craving can splinter into attentional chaos. If serotonin overwhelms, the rational can displace the randy.
在对于性欲最基本的理解方面，其他几种生物化学成份也起到了关键作用。但其中两种——作为荷尔蒙的睾酮和作为神经传递素的血清素在其中至关重要。女性的卵巢和双肾上方的肾上腺分泌睾酮，接着由血流输送到大脑，通过目前尚未完全理解的机制，触发了多巴胺的产生和释放。（由睾酮中产生的血源性雌性激素可能也与此过程有关。）另外一种就是多巴胺的屏障血清素。它令位于脑部上方前端的较高级区域实施所谓的执行功能。血清素是关于自控的分子。它向大脑灌输的是镇静、稳定与连贯性（同时还有幸福感，这也正是能向大脑大量释放血清素的S.S.R.I.能够治疗抑郁症的原因）。简单来说，多巴胺跟冲动有关；血清素则跟压抑和组织有关。在性欲和其他情绪领域中，这两者必须要平衡运作。如果多巴胺高居统治地位，冲动就让人意乱情迷。如果血清素占主导，理性将取代莽撞。
Yet knowing the biochemical components of a woman’s desire is one thing; manipulating them quite another. LibiGel, a testosterone gel made by BioSante, which reached women’s bloodstreams through the skin, was one of the medicines that preceded Lybrido and Lybridos. When F.D.A. trials ended in 2011, the results showed that the product didn’t do any more for sexual interest than a placebo.
可是，理解女性性欲的生物化学成份是一回事；操控它们就完全是另外一回事了。BioSante公司研发的睾酮凝胶“力比胶”(LibiGel)可以经皮肤进入女性血液中，是先于“力比多”和“力比多斯”前发明的女性性欲药物之一。2011年美国FDA的临床测试结束，结果显示这种药物对性欲的作用跟安慰剂无异。
Three years ago, Linneah took part in a trial of another drug, Boehringer Ingelheim’s Flibanserin, a nonhormonal pill that tinkered directly with neurotransmitter systems. Linneah swallowed a dose every day — and waited. So did her neighbor and another friend, wives who didn’t much desire their husbands anymore, either. They’d all taken reassurance in one another’s indifference and shared their amazement about another neighbor: “She was married as long as I was,” Linneah remembered, “and she had four kids and she was P.T.A. president, and she was ready to go with her husband 24/7, and we were all like, Wha?” That spring of the Flibanserin trial, Linneah and her friends agreed that they weren’t sensing any shift. Then, as now, Linneah thought maybe she’d landed in a placebo group. When Boehringer Ingelheim presented its data, an F.D.A. advisory board was not impressed with the results.
三年前，莉妮娅加入了另一种药物——勃林格殷格翰(Boehringer-Ingelheim)研发的氟立班丝氨(Flibanserin)的临床测试项目，这是一种非激素类药物，直接作用于神经传递系统。莉妮娅每天吃一粒药——接着就是等待。她的一位邻居和另一位朋友也是这样做的，她们都是不再对丈夫充满渴求的妻子。大家对性都变得无动于衷，这让她们彼此感觉到了一丝宽慰，因此也对另一位邻居感到纳闷。莉妮娅回忆说：“她结婚的时间跟我一样长，而且她生了四个孩子，还担任学校家长会的主席，就是这样，她仍然想要整天都跟丈夫腻在一起，我们都惊呆了。”在氟立班丝氨临床测试的那年春天，莉妮娅和朋友们都觉得，自己并未感觉到丝毫变化。无论是那一次还是这次，莉妮娅都觉得自己可能被分到了安慰剂组。当勃林格殷格翰公司提交了测试数据时，美国FDA的一个顾问委员会对结果未能表示印象深刻。
Bremelanotide, another nonhormonal medication (this one taken by nasal inhaler), was tested in 2006 and 2007. It generated, in a fair percentage of subjects, great waves of lust. Unfortunately, there were side effects like sudden jumps in blood pressure and bouts of vomiting. (LibiGel, Flibanserin and Bremelanotide are again being tested; this time, Bremelanotide is being delivered via injection.)
另一种通过鼻喷剂用药的非激素类药物布雷默浪丹(Bremelanotide)在2006年到2007年进行了临床测试。这种药在颇大比例的受试者中产生了较高的性欲。不幸的是，它会产生像血压飙升和阵吐这类副作用。（力比胶、氟立班丝氨和布雷默浪丹这三种药都进行了再次测试；这次布雷默浪丹改为经皮下注射用药。）
Tuiten’s pills work somewhat differently than the drugs that came before them. For one thing, both Lybrido and Lybridos contain two active chemicals, timed so that their effects converge. Each drug tampers with the interplay between serotonin and dopamine, giving dopamine, carrier of lust, a temporary edge.
图伊腾的这两种药跟此前出现的药物都有些不同。其一是，“力比多”和“力比多斯”都包含两种有效化合物，并设计好吸收时间，好让它们的效用汇聚起来。两种药都在干预睾酮素和多巴胺的相互作用，目的是让催生性欲的多巴胺能暂时占上风。
Both drugs have a peppermint-flavored testosterone coating that melts in the mouth. When the exterior is gone, the woman swallows a delayed-release inner tablet. In Lybrido, this inner pill is a close cousin of Viagra. The idea is that the Viagra-like molecule, by making extra blood flow to the genitals and adding to swelling and sensation, will work in conjunction with the testosterone. Together they will stir the mind to be more aware of erotic impulses; together they will help spark dopamine networks. Lybridos uses a compound called buspirone instead of the Viagra-like substance. Buspirone was originally used as an anti-anxiety medication, and if taken every day it can elevate serotonin in the brain. But as long as it’s taken no more than every other day, it has a unique short-term effect: for a few hours, serotonin is suppressed.
两种药都包着一种薄荷味的糖衣，糖衣中含有睾酮，可在口中融化，当糖衣含化后，服用者需要将内层的缓释药片吞服。在“力比多”中，内层药丸是万艾可的近亲。设计理念是让这种类似万艾可的分子产生额外血流，输送到外阴，制造出肿胀感与性欲，以便与睾酮协同作用。这两种化合物将使得大脑对色欲冲动产生更多意识；还将帮助点燃多巴胺网络。“力比多斯”的内层药丸则不是类似万艾可的物质，而是一种称为布匹隆(buspirone)的化合物。布匹隆原本用于治疗焦虑症，如果每天服用可以提高大脑中的血清素含量。但只要服用次数不超过隔天一粒，它就可以产生一种独特的短期效应：在几小时内，血清素的分泌将受到抑制。
To help predict which women will most benefit from which drug, Tuiten has blood drawn from each subject and examines genetic markers related to brain chemistry. Tuiten also asks subjects questions about their comfort with sexual feelings and fantasies. Since our dopamine and serotonin networks are reinforced or attenuated by all we learn, all we think and do, he believes that the answers may provide clues about a given woman’s neurotransmitter systems, which he uses as part of his diagnostic method.
为了预测哪类女性服用哪种药将获得最大的收益，图伊腾需要抽取每位受试者的血样，并检测与脑化学相关的基因标志物。图伊腾还要让受试者回答有关对性爱感受与性幻想自如程度的问题。他认为，既然我们所学、所想和所为都会提高或削弱多巴胺和血清素系统，那么，这些回答也许能让我们理解某位女性的神经传输系统提供一些线索，为他的诊断带来帮助。
This interplay of experience and neural pathways is widely known as neuroplasticity. The brain is ever altering. And it is neuroplasticity that may help explain why hypoactive sexual desire disorder is a mostly female condition, why it seems that women, more than men, lose interest in having sex with their long-term partners. If boys and men tend to take in messages that manhood is defined by sex and power, and those messages encourage them to think about sex often, then those neural networks associated with desire will be regularly activated and will become stronger over time. If women, generally speaking, learn other lessons, that sexual desire and expression are not necessarily positive, and if therefore they don’t think as much about sex, then those same neural networks will be less stimulated and comparatively weak. The more robust the neural pathways of eros, the more prone you are to feel lust at home, even as stimuli dissipate with familiarity and habit.
个人体验与神经通道的交互作用，往往被人称为神经可塑性。大脑处在不断变化中，而神经可塑性或许有助于解释为什么性欲减退症往往是女性专属的病症，为什么相比男性，女性更容易对跟长期伴侣做爱失去兴趣。如果说，男孩子和成年男人往往发觉，男子气概取决于性与权力，而这些意识会鼓励他们频繁联想到性，那些，与性欲有关的神经系统就可以时常得以激活，因此随着时间的推移将发展得更为强大。如果说女性总的来说取得的是别的认识，她们发现性欲与性表达不一定总是正面的，如果她们因此不再频繁联想到性，那么同样的神经系统得到刺激的机会就将较少，也会发展得较弱。有关性欲的神经通道越活跃，你就会越频繁得感到性欲蠢蠢欲动，就算随着熟悉与习惯刺激有所减少也同样如此。
“We had sex five times a week when before it was once a week,” Zita told me shortly after she’d finished her supply of Lybrido. And she wasn’t enthusiastic about that weekly intimacy. With the drug, she said, “I wanted to have sex even after we had sex. I would feel horny, and I got like a throbbing sensation, like I had to do something or it was going to bother me all night. I would just want more.” When I asked how her husband felt about her taking the medication, she laughed."Happy,” she said.
 “我们现在一星期做爱五次，而以前一周只有一次，”在服用了“力比多斯”不久后，泽塔这样对我说。而且过去她对这一周一次的亲密也并不热衷。她说，在吃药后，“在我们做过爱后，我立刻就又想要了。我觉得自己很好色，而且我产生了一种悸动感，就好像今晚我必须做爱，要不然整晚都会心烦意乱。我想要更多。”我问她，她丈夫对她服用药物有何感想，她笑了起来，“他高兴着呢,”她说。
Tuiten published some results from small, preliminary trials in the March issue of The Journal of Sexual Medicine. His full data, which he has just finished tabulating and will soon be taking to the F.D.A., show Lybrido bestowing unmistakable benefits in desire — and in rates of orgasm. (The outcomes for Lybridos aren’t thoroughly compiled, but he says that early results look about as positive.) Tuiten is confident that the F.D.A. will send him to do another larger set of trials, which will involve about 1,200 subjects. Plenty of drugs fail at that stage of replication. But if all goes well, by 2016, Lybrido and Lybridos might be on the market.
在3月份的《性医学期刊》(The Journal of Sexual Medicine)中，图伊腾发表了初期小型试验的一些成果。他刚刚结束全部数据的制表工作，不久将提交给美国FDA，试验结果显示力比多在性欲方面能带来可靠的益处——在提高性高潮比例方面亦然。（有关力比多斯的结果尚未彻底整理出来，但他说早期测试结果看来同样是正面的。）图伊腾相信FDA会让他再进行一组更大型的测试，介时将有约1200名受试者参加。有不少药都是在复制结果这个阶段失败的。但如果一切进行顺利，到2016年，力比多和力比多斯也许就将面市。
Is it possible, after all, that through the pharmaceutical industry a fairy-tale ending could come to pass? Perhaps the fantasy that so many of us harbor, consciously or not, in the early days of our relationships, that we have found a soul mate who will offer us both security and passion, till death do us part, will soon be available with the aid of a pill.
一个童话般的结尾，是否真的能借制药业之力得以实现？或许我们中的很多人都能在一段关系开始时，有意无意间产生过这样的憧憬：我们渴望找到一位灵魂伴侣，他能为我们彼此带来安全感与激情，直至死亡将我们分离。而现在，靠着一粒药丸的协助，或许它真的能成为现实。
But of course swallowing a tablet can take us only so far. Chemically enhancing a woman’s desire might play out in all kinds of ways within a relationship. Some couples might feel closer, others might feel desolate because, despite more sex, their bond isn’t stronger. Wives might yearn for the old seductive efforts of their husbands, even if those gestures stopped working long ago. Women might feel yet more pressure to perform: Why not get that prescription? their partners might ask; why not take that pill? And men, if they are willing to confront the truth, might not be so happy about the reminder, as their partners reach for the pill bottle, that their women need chemical assistance to want them. All the agonies that have existed since the dawn of monogamy will still pertain, many of them coming down to the craving to feel special.
可是，吞下一粒药丸当然不可能带我们走那么远。用药物催生女性的欲望也许会在一段关系中产生形形色色的后果。一些情侣也许觉得更亲近了，而另一些却觉得更加疏远，因为尽管做爱次数增多，他们彼此的纽带却并未更加紧密。妻子也许仍在渴望丈夫卖力施展以往的引诱术，哪怕这些伎俩其实在很久前就已经不再有用。在床上的表现方面，女性也许会觉得比以往更有压力了：为什么你不去找医生开那种处方药？她们的伴侣也许会问，你为什么不干脆吃药？至于男人，如果他们愿意面对现实，一经伴侣伸手去拿药瓶的提醒，想到他们的女人要靠药物帮助才会产生对自己的欲望，恐怕也不会十分高兴。自一夫一妻制诞生之时起就出现的苦恼仍将继续存在，而其中的很多痛苦都跟我们太想获得与众不同的感觉有关。
Beyond what might happen in millions of bedrooms, it’s even more difficult to foresee what societal transformations might be stirred. Just as with the birth-control pill, a foreboding not only about sex itself but also about female empowerment may be expressed in a dread of women’s sexual anarchy. Over the last decade, as companies chased after an effective chemical, there was fretting within the drug industry: what if, in trials, a medicine proved too effective? More than one adviser to the industry told me that companies worried about the prospect that their study results would be too strong, that the F.D.A. would reject an application out of concern that a chemical would lead to female excesses, crazed binges of infidelity, societal splintering.
除了将对数百万家庭的卧室可能发生的变化，更难预测的是这粒药丸将如何搅动社会转型。就像避孕药一样，女性性欲药同样是一种先兆，它不仅跟性有关，还跟在对女性性欲乱象的惊惧中，可能将表达的女性权力有关。在过去这10年里，当制药公司们纷纷在找寻有效的药物时，在业界内部存在着困惑：如果在临床测试中，某种药被证明过于有效，这该怎么办？不止一位制药业的顾问告诉我，这些公司担心自己的研究结果过于出色，这样一来，美国FDA也许会由于担心这种药将导致女性滥交、疯狂偷情和社会分崩离析，而拒绝发放批文。
“You want your effects to be good but not too good,” Andrew Goldstein, who is conducting the study in Washington, told me. “There was a lot of discussion about it by the experts in the room,” he said, recalling his involvement with the development of Flibanserin, “the need to show that you’re not turning women into nymphomaniacs.” He was still a bit stunned by the entrenched mores that lay within what he’d heard. “There’s a bias against — a fear of creating the sexually aggressive woman.”
“你希望产生好的效果，但又不要太好，”在华盛顿进行临床测试的安德鲁·戈德斯坦告诉我。“专家们对此进行大量讨论，”他回想起了自己在参加氟立班丝氨研发时的见闻，“你需要证明，这种药不会把女人变成色情狂。”对于自己听到的评论中蕴含的根深蒂固的道德观念，他仍然有点吃惊，“对于创造出拥有性攻击性的女人，人们仍然存有偏见，感到恐惧。”
Gaining control of their reproduction in the ‘60s affected not just women’s sex lives but also everything from their social standing to economic empowerment. What might it mean for conventional structures if women could control, with a prescription, the most primal urge? So many things, personal and cultural, might need to be recalibrated and renegotiated, explicitly or without acknowledgment. The cumulative effect of all those negotiations could be hugely transformative, in ways either thrilling or threatening, depending on your point of view.
在20世纪60年代赢得生育的主动权，这影响的不仅是妇女的性生活，还包括从她们的社会地位到经济权力的方方面面。如果通过一粒处方药，女人就能控制自己最本能的冲动，这对于社会传统结构又将意味着什么呢？从个人到文化，有那么多事物也许都需要进行或明确、或默认的重新校准与重新协商。所有协商产生的聚合作用也许会带来巨大的变革，至于变革的方式是令人兴奋还是令人恐惧，就全视乎你个人的看法了。
Maybe.
也许如此。
For her part, Linneah didn’t see herself as doing anything revolutionary. This was about her marriage. She said that if this drug didn’t work, she would sign up for the next experimental medication that came along. She seemed untroubled by the fact that we live in an age when it’s possible to take a pill for nearly everything, or by the paradox that one of the problems this medication might be addressing is the desire-killing side effect of yet another type of psychotropic chemical, the S.S.R.I.'s. For her, the existence of the antidepressants that so many others take was proof that her problem would be solved.
至于莉妮娅，她并不觉得自己是在做革命性的事情。这关乎的是她的婚姻。她说，如果这次的药不起作用，下一次有药物进行临床测试，她还是会报名参加。对于我们如今生活在一个似乎一粒药可解百病的时代，对于药物，比如另一种类型的精神类药物S.S.R.I.会产生削弱性欲的副作用，她看来并不觉得困扰。在她看来，那么多人服用抗抑郁药这件事情本身，已经足以证明自己的问题也将得以解决。
“They’ve got all these meds for all these other psychiatric issues,” she said, before driving away with her new batch of pills. “Something’s got to pop up that can help with this. Right? Right?”
“对于所有其他精神类问题，大家都有药可治，”在拿着新的一批药，准备开车离开前，她说：“总会出现什么好药来帮助我，是不是？是不是？”