The Tour of Love and Gratitude luncheon at the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park took a decisive turn for the worse on Wednesday soon after the 200 or so guests had finished their filet of beef with horseradish and were just about to tuck into their seasonal berries in phyllo cups.
周二，在大约200名客人享用完佐山葵酱的菲力牛排，准备开始吃时令浆果脆皮杯时，这场在中央公园洛布船坞餐厅(Loeb Boathouse)举行的“爱与感恩之旅”午餐会出现了一个决定性的转折。
The bad news had finally reached the last few tables: Their host, a Chinese millionaire, would not be handing out any cash.
最后几张餐桌终于也得知了这个坏消息：主办者——来自中国的百万富翁，不会分发现金。
Only moments before, the host, Chen Guangbiao, had made a speech promising everyone $300 in cash. It was a particularly huge deal for this crowd: All the guests were homeless men and women.
就在不久之前，主办者陈光标发表演讲，承诺给每个人发放300美元（约合1870元人民币）现金。对于所有客人——一群无家可归的男人和女人来说，这是一笔巨款。
There was grumbling, a few shouts of anger. But most — at least at first — were in a state of stunned despair.
有人表示不满，还有人愤怒地大喊。但大多数人都感到震惊绝望，至少起初是这样。
“Are you serious?” said Tom Cargill, 52, staring into his dessert. “I feel so disappointed right now I’m going to throw up.” It was a pivotal moment in a bizarre event orchestrated by Mr. Chen, a 46-year-old recycling magnate who said he was seeking to help New York’s poor and inspire a culture of philanthropy around the world.
“是说真的吗？”52岁的汤姆·卡吉尔(Tom Cargill)凝视着他的甜点说。“我现在感到非常失望，我快要吐了。”这是46岁的回收业巨头陈光标策划的怪异活动的关键性时刻，陈光标表示，他试图帮助纽约的穷人，在世界范围内激发一种慈善文化。
He had announced the event in a full-page advertisement in The New York Times on June 16. “Leading Chinese philanthropist teams up with famous American charities to host charity luncheon for 1,000 poor and destitute Americans,” the ad said. “Each will receive 300 dollars.”
陈光标于6月16日在《纽约时报》刊登整版广告宣布此事。广告称，“中国大好人携手美国著名慈善机构，寻找1000名美国穷人及流浪汉，餐后每人领取300美元。”
Several months ago, Mr. Chen grabbed American media attention when he brought two burn victims to the United States for treatment and vowed to buy The New York Times. In China, he has developed a reputation for publicity stunts, including handing out money on the street. Forbes estimates his net worth at $740 million.
几个月前，陈光标将两名烧伤病人带到美国进行治疗，并声言要收购《纽约时报》，因此吸引了美国媒体的关注。他在中国以爱作秀而闻名，比如在大街上分发现金。根据福布斯(Forbes)的估算，他的资产净值为7.4亿美元。
Mr. Chen said in an interview that he was moved to host a luncheon for New York’s poor after seeing homeless people sifting through garbage cans on his visits to the United States. Born into a poor family, he said, he has been motivated to help others improve their lives. He said he felt that addressing the problem in the world’s financial capital would influence others to do the same.
陈光标接受采访时表示，他来到美国看到很多无家可归者翻垃圾桶，深有感触，因此决定为纽约的穷人举办午餐会。他表示，自己出生在一个贫穷的家庭，因此希望帮助其他人改善生活。他称自己觉得解决世界金融之都的这个问题将会影响其他人，促使他们做同样的事情。
“I want the wealthy people of the world to see,” he said through an interpreter. “From this event, I hope the whole world will be filled with love.”
“我想让世界上的富人看看，”他通过翻译说。“通过此事，我希望全世界充满爱。”
While philanthropists in China debate whether his theatrical style helps or hinders the growth of philanthropic culture there, Mr. Chen has no doubt about his own significance. His business card describes him as “Most Influential Person of China” and “Most Well-known and Beloved Chinese Role Model.”
陈光标的夸张风格对慈善文化的发展是利还是弊，中国的慈善人士也展开了争论。陈光标对自己的重要性毫不怀疑。他的名片上写着“中国最具影响力的人”、“中国最知名、最受爱戴的楷模”。
On Sunday he met with officials from the New York City Rescue Mission and asked them to supply the homeless people as guests. They said they would participate in the event as long as he did not hand out any cash, said Craig Mayes, the group’s executive director. Mr. Mayes said he was concerned that some of the clients might use the cash to buy alcohol and drugs. In return, Mr. Chen agreed to donate $90,000 to the organization, and the two parties signed a contract.
周日，陈光标与纽约市援助会(New York City Rescue Mission)的官员举行会面，并要求他们将无家可归者当作客人，为其提供食物。这些官员表示，他们将参加午餐会，前提是他不分发现金。援助会执行董事克雷格·梅耶斯(Craig Mayes)表示，他担心一些救济对象会利用这些现金买酒和毒品。作为交换，陈光标同意向该机构捐赠九万美元，双方签订了一份合同。
On Wednesday morning, the boathouse was abuzz with activity. Large security officers in suits were posted around the building. Scores of journalists had descended on the site. The police had set up barricades.
周三上午，船坞餐厅人声鼎沸。酒店大楼外站着穿正装、身形魁梧的保安。数十名记者来到现场。警方设置了路障。
The buses from the rescue mission arrived shortly before noon, and the men and women filed into the boathouse. Tuxedoed waiters standing at the entrance offered them glasses of fruit juice and ice water with lemon. A video extolling the accomplishments of Mr. Chen played on four screens above the dais.
纽约市救济中心的大巴车在午前不久抵达，男女宾客鱼贯进入船坞餐厅。穿着无尾礼服的侍者站在门口，给他们奉上果汁和加柠檬的冰水。宴会舞台上方的四块屏幕上滚动播放着陈光标的成就。
“This is not bad: Central Park, a summer day,” said Frank Oquendo, 48, one of the guests, as he and the others were ushered to their seats at large banquet tables draped in white tablecloths. “Being in here is like being a billionaire for a day.”
客人之一、48岁的弗兰克·奥肯多(Frank Oquendo)和其他人被引领到铺有白色餐布的大餐桌边就坐，他边走边说，“不错啊：大夏天的，又是中央公园。走进这里，感觉就像当一天的亿万富翁。”
Many said they had heard conflicting reports about whether Mr. Chen might distribute cash. “Is it true that they’re going to give us a donation?” asked Roberto Cruz, 40. “I hope they didn’t mislead us.”
许多人说，关于陈光标是否会发钱，他们听到了相互矛盾的报道。40岁的罗伯托·克鲁兹(Roberto Cruz)问道，“他们会给我们一笔捐款，这是真的吗？我希望他们不要误导我们。”
As the guests dug into their first course — sesame-crusted tuna with Asian vegetable slaw and lemon grass — a program of music, speeches and even magic tricks unfolded on a dais. Volunteers dressed in Chinese military outfits sang.
客人们埋头享用第一道菜，是撒有芝麻的金枪鱼和混有香茅的亚洲蔬菜沙拉，与此同时，一个讲台上开始表演节目，有音乐、演讲甚至是魔术。穿着中式军装的志愿者演唱了歌曲。
Mr. Chen addressed the audience and then uncorked the news the crowd had been waiting for: “I will give $300 for every participant today.”
陈光标向来客致辞，然后透露了众人一直翘首期待的消息：“我会给在座的每位发放300美元。”
The homeless men and women shot to their feet, whooping and applauding.
无家可归的男女流浪者全都站起身，大声喝彩。
“No he won’t,” Michelle Tolson, the mission’s director of public relations, said. “The police will shut him down.”
救济中心的公关总监米歇尔·托尔森(Michelle Tolson)说，“他不会这么做的。警方会来阻止的。”
Officials from the Rescue Mission quickly brokered a deal with Mr. Chen’s assistants, allowing him to hand $300 to several chosen homeless clients in a symbolic gesture. The clients, however, would have to return the money.
救济中心的管理人员迅速和陈光标的助手达成了协议，允许陈光标做出象征性的姿态，给几名挑选出来的无家可归者发放300美元。然而，这些宾客必须把钱还回来。
A trolley loaded with $100 bills appeared on the dais, and the homeless delegates were led to the stage, where they posed for the television cameras. Mr. Chen moved into the last portion of the program, launching into an awkward karaoke version of “We Are the World.” But as he sang, word began to spread around the room that there was, in fact, going to be no broader cash disbursement.
舞台上出现了一辆堆放着100美元钞票的手推车，无家可归者的代表被引领上台，在电视镜头前摆好姿势。陈光标进入了节目的最后一个环节，演唱了一个别扭的卡拉OK版《天下一家》(We Are the World)。不过，他唱歌的时候，房间里的人开始窃窃私语，说实际上不会有更大范围的发钱活动了。
“Very deceptive,” grumbled Dennis Durant, 58.
“这很骗人啊，”58岁的丹尼斯·杜兰特(Dennis Durant)抱怨说。
As the event ended, several of the guests rushed the dais. “Stop lying!” one yelled at Mr. Chen. “We’re human beings!” another shouted.
宴会结束后，有几名客人冲到了台上。其中一人冲着陈光标大喊，“别再撒谎了！”另一人叫道，“我们是人！”
The security guards formed a cocoon around Mr. Chen as angry guests, and dozens of reporters, pressed in.
当愤怒的宾客和数十名记者逼过来时，保安人员把陈光标结结实实地护在了中间。
Grabbing a microphone, Mr. Chen said he would still fulfill his promise and would head to the mission later in the day and personally distribute the cash to all the participants. “I look forward to seeing you at the mission shortly!” he exclaimed.
陈光标抓住一支麦克风，说他会履行诺言，在当日晚些时候前往救济中心，把钱私下里发放给所有参加者。他大喊着，“我希望不久后能在救济中心见到你们。”
Mr. Mayes suddenly appeared at his shoulder. “That’s a violation of the contract,” he said.
梅斯突然出现在他身边。他说，“这是违反合同的。”
The men met privately to figure out a solution. Boat House personnel and staff members from the mission ushered out the luncheon guests. The temperature in the room began to drop.
两人私下里谈了谈，试图找出解决方案。船坞餐厅的工作人员和救济中心的员工引领客人离开了餐会现场。房间里的气氛开始冷下来。
Soon, Mr. Mayes was heading toward the door. “It’s a whole lot of miscommunication,” he said. Asked what would happen next, he replied dryly: “I don’t know.”
梅斯很快就朝门口走去。他说，“有很多沟通上的误会。”当被问到接下来会发生什么事时，他干巴巴地回答说，“我不知道。”
Mr. Chen remained upbeat, his smile unyielding. He said he thought the event had been “extremely successful.” He attributed any dissatisfaction among his guests to “differences between cultures of the East and West.”
陈光标依然兴致勃勃，脸上凝固着笑容。他说，他认为这场宴会“极为成功”。他把客人之中的所有不满都归咎于“东西方的文化差异”。
“In fact,” he said, as his security detail led him to a black Suburban, “next year I’m going to continue my philanthropy in Africa.”
当手下的安保人员把他领向一辆黑色雪佛兰Suburban时，他说，“事实上明年我会在非洲继续做善事。”