On the messaging app Line, a late-afternoon conversation between colleagues might involve a series of colorful icons, or stickers — a way to invite someone out for a drink or to gently say no:
在即时通讯应用连我(Line)上，同事之间傍晚进行的谈话可能会用到一系列彩色的图标或贴图——人们可以通过这种方式来邀请他人一起喝一杯，或是委婉地表示拒绝：
Man with a mug of beer, winking.
拿着啤酒的男子在眨眼。
Bear busy at work at his desk.
在办公桌旁忙工作的熊。
Man on his knees, devastated.
男子跪倒在地，表情痛苦。
Bear bowing in apology.
鞠躬致歉的熊。
“They’re great when you don’t have time to type out entire messages but don’t want to be rude, either,” said Motoko Kondo, 34, who works at a Tokyo design agency. “I sometimes carry out entire conversations with only stickers.”
“如果你没有时间打出完整的信息，又不想显得不礼貌，这是一种非常好的方式，”就职于东京一家设计机构的34岁的近藤元子（Motoko Kondo，音译）说。“有时候，我只用贴图就能完成对话。”
Line is among a growing number of apps jostling for control of the rapidly growing mobile messaging business. Such start-ups are no longer just competing for users and their time. They are also racing to define how a younger generation — one that has increasingly moved away from traditional text messaging, as well as Facebook and Twitter — will message on the go.
随着移动即时通讯业务的迅速发展，越来越多的应用都想主导这项业务，连我就是其中之一。此类初创企业的竞争目标不再局限于用户和他们的时间。他们还在竞争，谁能左右年轻一代——他们在逐渐远离传统的即时通讯方式，以及Facebook和Twitter——在繁忙的时候如何发送讯息。
“There’s a frenzy of experimentation going on with the future of messaging, with new ways of communicating on mobile that go beyond typing something and hitting ‘send,’ ” said Benedict Evans, a partner with the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, which has invested in social networks and messaging services.
“人们正在争分夺秒地对即时通讯的未来进行试验。这些通过移动终端进行交流的新方式让我们不再只是打字，然后点击‘发送’，”风投公司安德森-霍洛维茨(Andreessen Horowitz)的合伙人贝内迪克特·埃文斯(Benedict Evans)说。这家公司对社交网络和即时通讯服务进行了投资。
Apps like Snapchat and Blink have increased their user bases through the appeal of spontaneity, transience and privacy, with messages that self-destruct soon after they are opened. Those services have eaten into the early lead of WhatsApp, a no-frills service that focuses on letting users send and receive text, image, audio and video through the web. Viber has focused on messaging plus free Internet phone calls.
由于具有自发、短暂和私密的特点（讯息打开不久后就会自行消失），Snapchat和Blink等应用吸引了大批用户。此类服务抢占了早前处于领先地位的WhatsApp的市场。WhatsApp不提供花里胡哨的功能，而是专注于让用户通过网络来收发短信、图像、音频和视频。Viber关注的则是即时通讯和免费的网络通话。
The Tokyo start-up Line, along with WeChat from China, has sought to pepper the messaging experience with an array of stickers, social games and even weather forecasts. Their sprawling online offerings make them huge distribution platforms for content, not just messaging services.
与中国的微信一样，东京初创公司连我希望能通过一系列的贴图、社交游戏乃至天气预报来增加即时通讯的趣味性。它们提供各式各样的网络功能，从而成为了内容的庞大分销平台，而不仅仅是即时通讯服务的平台。
“It’s messaging, evolved,” said Takeshi Idezawa, Line’s chief operating officer.
“这也是即时通讯，是升级版，”连我的首席运营官出泽刚(Takeshi Idezawa)说。
Line has signed up 430 million users, almost 90 percent of them outside Japan. (It does not break out the number of active users.) WhatsApp said in February that it had 465 million monthly active users, while WeChat’s parent company, Tencent, said its number of monthly active users reached 355 million at the end 2013.
连我的注册用户已达4.3亿，其中约90%都不在日本。（公司没有透露活跃用户的人数。）WhatsApp于今年2月表示，它拥有4.65亿的月活跃用户，而微信所属的公司腾讯则称，截至2013年底，其月活跃用户已达3.55亿。
Such apps have been the target of frenzied deal-making. Snapchat spurned a multibillion-dollar offer from Facebook last year; Facebook eventually bought WhatsApp in February for $19 billion. The same month, Rakuten, the Japanese e-commerce giant, acquired Viber for $900 million. Yahoo snapped up Blink this month for an undisclosed sum.
此类应用也是如火如荼的收购案的目标。去年，Snapchat拒绝了Facebook数十亿美元的收购要约；今年2月，Facebook最终以190亿美元（约合1200亿元人民币）买下了WhatsApp。同一个月，日本电商巨头乐天(Rakuten)以9亿美元收购了Viber。雅虎(Yahoo)本月一举买下Blink，具体收购价格尚不明确。
Analysts speculate that Line could go public or be an acquisition target for a company like SoftBank, one of Line’s advertising clients. Justin Lee, a technology analyst at BNP Paribas, values the service at as much as $15 billion — slightly less than the valuation fetched by Twitter when it made its debut on the New York Stock Exchange in November. Line declined to comment on the issue.
分析人士预计，连我可能会上市，或者成为软银(SoftBank)等公司的收购目标。软银目前是连我的广告客户之一。法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)的科技分析师贾斯汀·李(Justin Lee)对该应用的估价高达150亿美元——略低于Twitter去年11月在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)上市时的估值。连我拒绝就此置评。
“Line’s localization efforts are paying off,” Mr. Lee wrote in a recent note, pointing to improving momentum, especially in Southeast Asia and Latin America.
“连我在本土化方面所做的努力得到了回报，”贾斯汀·李在近期的报告中写道。这里指的是连我逐步加大的增长势头，尤其是在东南亚和拉美地区。
Asia-based start-ups like Line, with all their bells and whistles, could give users more reason to stick with the app, said Boris Wertz, founder of Version One Ventures, an early-stage venture capital firm. But at the same time, he said, the abundant content could be harder to tailor to local needs. The question is whether newcomers like Line will translate to an American audience.
做前期投资的 Version One Ventures风投公司的创始人鲍里斯·韦茨(Boris Wertz)表示，由于具有许多附加功能，连我等总部设在亚洲的初创企业给用户提供了更多继续使用自家应用的理由。但他认为，丰富的内容同时也意味着，愈加难以度身打造符合特定地域需求的东西。问题是，像连我这种初来乍到的公司能否打动美国受众？
“A lot of the Asian platforms have developed much deeper, richer experiences, and I personally think these broader platform approaches have a bigger potential over time,” Mr. Wertz said. “But that richer experience makes it harder to translate across cultures. Line’s heavy use of stickers and emoticons — you couldn’t transport all of that to North American culture.”
“大量亚洲平台都开发出了更深刻、更丰富的体验，我个人认为，这些更广阔的平台长期看来拥有更大的潜力，”韦茨说，“但是，丰富的体验也使之更难以跨越文化界限。连我使用了大量贴图和表情符号——但你无法把所有这些都直接搬到北美文化中去。”
Line is finding it difficult to gain traction in the United States. After an initial marketing push last year, it has eased off promotional activities and says it is focusing on other markets that need attention more urgently. “There’s very strong competition in America,” Mr. Idezawa said.
连我在美国市场上表现平平。在去年发起首轮市场营销之后，公司慢慢放松了宣传，并表示正把重点放在其他更需关注的市场上。出泽刚说，“美国的竞争非常激烈。”
Line has struck a chord in Japan partly because of the country’s affection for all things cute, experts say. But there are more factors at play. The stiff, written form of the Japanese language can be cumbersome to type on smartphones, and stickers make communication easier and faster, said Ryoko Morishima, who has written several guides on social media.
专家认为，连我之所以会在日本引起共鸣，部分是因为日本喜欢一切可爱的东西。但除此以外，还有许多其他因素。撰写过几本社交媒体指南的森岛良子(Ryoko Morishima)说，用智能手机输出复杂的日文有时候相当费劲，而贴图却能让交流变得更加简单迅速。
Stickers also let Japanese users express direct feelings that can be awkward to convey in the formal language, Ms. Morishima said. Refusing an invitation from a colleague for after-work drinks, for example, could cause discomfort in a culture where an outright no is avoided at all costs. But enlist a bear as the messenger and there is less potential for embarrassment on either side, Ms. Morishima said.
森岛良子称，贴图还能让日本用户表达用正式语言会显得尴尬的真实感受。例如，同事邀请你下班后一起喝酒，拒绝邀请又可能会带来不快，因为在日本文化中，人们会不惜一切代价地避免直接说“不”。森岛良子表示，如果用一只熊来传达讯息，就能减少让彼此感到难堪的可能性。
“It’s just easier when a bear says it,” she said.
她说，“通过熊来拒绝，让人觉得更加轻松。”
Line’s characters are not just about better messaging, either. Although Line is free to download, it sells premium-edition stickers, and the characters populate its universe of online games — both big moneymakers for the company. There is the merchandising, as well as a line of peripheral apps, including a weather service, a fledgling e-commerce site and a dedicated camera app that allows users to add characters to their photos.
而且，连我的贴图角色不仅是为了更好地收发短信。虽然下载连我不收取任何费用，但是它会销售一些特别版的贴图，而且这些角色都来自它的网络游戏——这两者都让公司赚了大钱。此外，公司还推出了周边产品与应用系列，其中包括天气服务、一个新创办的电商网站，以及一个专用的相机应用——用户可以用它把角色加到入真实相片中。
Companies can pay to have Line offer their characters, which users download at no cost in exchange for “friending” the corporation in the app. One of the most popular stickers in Japan this year is Rakuten Cardman, a character introduced by the eponymous e-commerce giant. The character recently threw the first pitch at a baseball game hosted by the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles, the former team of the New York Yankees pitcher Masahiro Tanaka.
企业也可以付钱让连我增添代表公司的角色，然后供用户免费下载，但前提是用户要在应用中把相应的公司“添加为好友”。日本今年最受欢迎的贴图人物是乐天卡超人(Rakuten Cardman)，该角色由同名电商巨头推出。最近，这个角色还在东北乐天金鹰队(Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles)的主场棒球赛上开球。纽约扬基队(New York Yankees)投手田中将大(Masahiro Tanaka)之前就是该队成员。
All that has allowed Line to build a solid business model. In the 12 months through March, Line earned almost 60 billion yen ($590 million) from its stickers, in-game sales and ads, just under the $665 million that Twitter earned last year.
这一切让连我建立起了稳固的商业模式。在截至今年3月的财年里，连我通过贴图、游戏内购和广告挣了近600亿日元（约合37亿元人民币），略低于Twitter去年6.65亿美元的营收。
“Line has become part of the communications infrastructure,” said Kenichi Sugai, a technology analyst at Speeda, a financial information platform based in Tokyo. “Now it’s in a global race to win over users and to convince them this is what messaging should be.”
“连我已经成了通讯基础设施的一部分，”东京金融信息平台Speeda的科技分析师菅井健一（Kenichi Sugai，音译）说，“现在，它加入了一场全球竞赛，看谁能赢得用户并且让他们相信，即时通讯就该如此。”