The latest:
最新消息：
■ Shanghai stocks swung between big losses and gains on Wednesday, despite the rate cut in China.
■ 尽管中国出台降息降准措施，但沪市周三在大跌与大涨间摇摆。
■ The markets were mixed across the rest of Asia, with Japan and South Korea rebounding strongly.
■ 亚洲其他国家市场表现参差不齐。日本与韩国股市强力反弹。
■ American markets lost big gains made early on Tuesday and finished the day in the red.
■ 美股损失了周二的增量，再次收跌。
Indepth:
详情：
HONG KONG — Volatility continued to dominate global markets on Wednesday, with whipsaw trading across Asia.
香港——周三，全球股市仍以动荡为主，亚洲市场剧烈起伏。
Shares in Shanghai swung between sharp gains and losses, showing no sign that China’s cutting interest rates late Tuesday would lead to a broader rally. The main index fell nearly 4 percent before recovering and was up 2.8 percent by early afternoon.
上海股市在大幅上涨和猛烈下跌之间摆动，没有迹象表明中国央行降准降息会带来大范围好转。午后，主要股指跌近4%，然后回升，升幅达2.8%。
Global markets have been tumultuous in recent days as fears have mounted about China’s weakening economy and its leadership’s ability to handle a slowdown.
中国经济的疲软和其领导人应对低增长的能力让投资人担忧，随着担忧情绪的增长，全球股市近期普遍跌宕。
The recent Chinese stock rout is now rattling markets from Tokyo to London to New York. The sell-off has erased all of this year’s gains on stocks in the United States and China.
中国近期的股市下挫波及从东京到伦敦和纽约的市场。抛售潮在中国和美国均抵消掉了今年的全部增量。
So far, there were no clear signs that the easing of the rout in some markets on Tuesday would lead to a broader recovery.
目前没有清楚的迹象表明一些地方在周二趋稳态势会带来大范围的恢复。
Around Asia, markets were mixed in afternoon trading on Wednesday. Stocks in Japan rebounded after a 4 percent plunge on Tuesday and South Korea’s main index rallied, while Australian shares came under renewed selling pressure before rising somewhat in the afternoon.
周三下午，亚洲市场涨跌互现。在周二下跌4%后，日本股市反弹。韩国主要股指回升。澳大利亚股市此前承受新一轮的抛售压力，下午有所上涨。
The mixed trading in Asia follows the equally volatile session on Wall Street on Tuesday. Stocks had rallied sharply, until the rebound fell apart in the last hour of trading.
亚洲市场的喜忧参半与周二华尔街的走势震荡一致。股市曾大幅回升，但反弹在交易的最后一小时分崩离析。
The fears over China had also spread to emerging economies and continued to put pressure on commodities markets.
对中国市场的担忧已经蔓延至新兴经济体，并持续给大宗商品市场施压。
Malaysia’s currency, the ringgit, fell briefly to its weakest level against the dollar since 1998. Futures on commodities like copper edged lower, while oil futures were edging up, but still remained near six-year lows.
马来西亚货币林吉特对美元汇率一度跌至1998年以来的最低水平。例如黄铜等大宗商品期货价格下跌，而原油期货价格虽有上涨，但仍保持在六年来的低点附近。
The market mess, in large part, is emanating from the tumult in China.
市场的混乱很大程度上是由中国的动荡引起的。
After a soaring rally that more than doubled stock values in a year, China’s stock market started cratering in June. Since then, China’s leaders have been scrambling to prop up the country’s markets, including barring big shareholders from selling stocks and ordering state agencies to buy them.
在经历了一年内市值翻番的飙升后，中国股市在6月开始表现疲态。自那时起，中国的领导人就已手忙脚乱地拉抬股市，包括禁止大型股票持有者售出股票，并要求国有机构买入。
Despite such tremendous government intervention, shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen have continued to plunge. It was a huge loss of face for the leadership in Beijing, but officials now appear to be tacitly acknowledging the failure of their ham-handed attempts to rescue shares.
尽管政府干预规模空前，上海和深圳的股票仍继续跳水。这对于中央领导层来说是一个巨大的面子上的损失，但现在官员们似乎默认他们笨手笨脚的救市努力是失败的。
State-directed buying on China’s markets appears to have eased drastically in recent days, and trading volumes have ebbed. Even many official news outlets, which had talked up domestic stocks as a good investment during the rally, have gone quiet about the slump.
中国市场上，国家主导的买入潮似乎在近日彻底放缓，交易量也已减少。甚至连在上涨期间宣称国内股票是绝佳投资的许多官方新闻媒体，面对暴跌也集体噤声。
Instead, China’s leaders appear to have turned their efforts to supporting the broader economy, where growth continues to slow.
反之，中国的领导人似乎已经把工作重心转移到支撑更广泛的经济层面上，而其增速一直缓慢。
China devalued its currency, the renminbi, on Aug. 11 in its biggest one-time drop since 1994. The weaker renminbi makes exports more competitive.
8月11日，中国下调了人民币汇率，创造了自1994年以来的单次最大跌幅。疲软的人民币将使得出口更具竞争力。
The central bank’s latest move came on Tuesday, when it cut interest rates and freed banks to lend by lowering their reserve requirements.
中央银行最近的动作于周二到来，降低利率并通过下调准备金率的方式使银行的放贷更加自由。
But the situation is creating concerns around the world for companies and countries that have come to depend on the Chinese economy. The worry is that China’s growth, which official figures put at 7 percent, is actually much lower.
但这一情形在世界范围内带来了许多依赖中国经济的企业和国家的忧虑。这一忧虑是，中国实际的经济增长可能比官方7%的数据更低。
Adding to the woes, economists are wondering whether Beijing’s efforts will fall short, complicating the economic picture. And if growth stumbles, the leadership may fail to deliver on recent pledges to make its economy more market-driven.
此外，经济学家还有一些疑问，北京的努力是否是不合标准的，并使得经济形势更为混乱。同时如果增长步履蹒跚，领导层或许会违背近期作出的，使经济更加以市场为导向的承诺。
“The Chinese authorities are aiming to stabilize the equity market, the renminbi exchange rate and the economy,” Minggao Shen, the head of China research in Hong Kong for Citigroup, wrote in a report. “The key to win the triple battle will rely on growth stabilization via a combination of policy easing and meaningful reforms in the real economy.”
“中国官方正在以稳定股票市场、人民币汇率和经济为目标，”位于香港的花旗环球金融市场亚洲公司中国研究主管沈明高在报告中写道，“赢得这一三重战争的关键在于通过结合政策放宽和有效改革，实现实体经济的增长稳定化。”
Deeper economic woes in China would have a global impact — on American companies like General Motors or Yum Brands, who count China’s rising middle class among their biggest customers; on Australian iron ore exporters or Peruvian copper miners; on Japanese industrial robot manufacturers or French luxury goods retailers.
中国更加深层的经济问题将会带来全球范围内的影响——对于例如通用汽车和百胜集团等以中国中产阶级作为最大消费者群体的美国公司；对于澳大利亚铁矿石出口商和秘鲁的铜矿矿工；对于日本的工业机器人制造商和法国奢侈品零售商。
The uncertainties over China have also prompted some to question whether or how soon the United States Federal Reserve might raise interest rates.
中国的不确定性更引发了对于美联储是否，或是何时将上调利率的疑问。
The Fed has indicated it expects such a move this year, possibly as early as mid-September, bringing an end to an unprecedented six-year period of ultralow rates. But the risk of a worsening outlook for China could complicate the Fed’s timing, even as the United States economy continues to improve.
美联储已经指出，预计将在年内作出这一举动，最早可能会是在9月中旬，为史无前例的六年超低利率期画上句号。但中国经济前景恶化的风险，可能使美联储的时间设置更加复杂，甚至在美国经济持续增长的情况下。
China’s leaders have acknowledged the challenges they face but sought to allay global concerns.
中国领导人已经承认他们面临的挑战，但试图安抚全球的关切。
“Currently, global economic trends are opaque and confusing, and market volatility is quite large, and this has had some impact on the Chinese economy,” China’s premier, Li Keqiang, said on Tuesday, according to a report on Chinese television news.
据中国电视新闻报道，中国国务院总理李克强于周二称，“当前世界经济形势仍然扑朔迷离，市场波动较大，也使中国经济受到一些影响。”
“But fundamentally the overall stability of the Chinese economy has not changed,” Mr. Li added.
“但中国经济整体平稳的基本面没有变，经济运行仍保持在合理区间，”李克强补充道。