HONG KONG — It was a seven-year wait, but China on Thursday finally announced a plan to allow two-way investment between the Shanghai and Hong Kong stock exchanges.
香港——已经等待了七年了，中国终于在周四宣布了一项计划，将允许上海和香港的股票交易所实现双向投资。
For the first time, individual investors in Hong Kong will be able to use their local brokerage accounts to trade the shares of companies listed in Shanghai, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission said in a joint announcement on Thursday.
中国证券监督管理委员会和香港证券及期货事务监察委员会周四发表联合公告称，香港的个人投资者将能够用他们在当地的经纪账户对在上海上市的公司进行股票交易，这将是第一次能怎样做。
At the same time, investors in mainland China would be able to use their local brokers to buy Hong Kong-listed shares. This outbound trading would be restricted to institutions or individual investors whose accounts have a minimum of 500,000 renminbi, or about $80,500.
与此同时，中国大陆的投资者也将可以使用当地的经纪账户购买在香港上市的股票。但是，从内地购买香港股票的交易将限于帐户余额不低于50万元人民币的机构或个人投资者。
The combined daily trading would be capped at 23.5 billion renminbi, the regulators said. That is equal to about 20 percent of the combined average daily trading turnover of both markets.
这两家监管机构称，两地股市的跨境每日投入净数额将限制在235亿元人民币以下。这相当于沪港两地股市日交易额平均值总和的约20%。
Despite their size and huge trading volumes, China’s equity and debt markets remain largely off limits to foreign investors. Two-way investment is restricted to licensed institutions and subject to comparatively tiny quotas.
尽管中国的股票和债券市场的规模和交易量巨大，但基本上不对外国投资者开放。只有获得批准的机构才能进行双向投资，而且面临相对微小的配额限制。
The preparatory work to introduce the new pilot trading program is expected to take about six months, officials said. The cumulative, combined trading flows will be capped at an aggregate 550 billion renminbi. The quotas may be adjusted in the future, the regulators said.
官员说，为引入新交易试点方案作筹备预计需要6个月的时间。两地的股市总交易累积净额度将会被限制在5500亿元人民币以下。这两家监管机构称，这些额度将来可能会做出调整。
The program, called the Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, “will not only help strengthen the two securities markets, but will also have long-term and strategic significance,” John Tsang, Hong Kong’s financial secretary, said in a statement. “I am pleased to see that Hong Kong plays an important role in the two-way opening up of the mainland’s capital market to the world.”
香港财政司司长曾俊华(John Tsang)在一份声明中表示，这个被称为沪港互联互通的计划，“不但有助深化两地证券市场，更具有深远和战略性意义。我很高兴香港在内地资本市场面向全球双向开放发挥了重要的作用。”
In the summer of 2007, senior Hong Kong government officials announced a plan, referred to as the “through train,” that would allow mainland Chinese investors to directly buy shares listed in Hong Kong. That announcement sent the local Hang Seng index soaring, gaining more than 50 percent over a two-month period ending in October 2007 to peak at a high of over 31,000 points.
2007年夏天，香港政府的高级官员曾宣布过一项被称为“港股直通车”的计划，该计划将允许大陆投资者直接购买在香港交易所上市的股票。这一宣布让香港的恒生指数在两个月中连续飙升，增长了50%，在2007年10月达到了31000点的最高水平。
But the through train never left the station. Hong Kong stocks plunged and, unlike shares in the United States and other major markets, have not come close to matching their pre-crisis highs. Investors are hoping this time around is different.
但是，直通车从未驶出车站。之后，香港股市大幅下跌，而且与美国和其他主要市场不同的是，香港的股票指数一直没有回到接近经济危机前的最高点。投资者希望这次与上次不一样。
“The landmark agreement gives global investors greater access to China’s extraordinary growth story and allows Chinese savers to diversify their holdings,” said Peter Wong, the deputy chairman and chief executive of HSBC’s Hong Kong unit. “This is further confirmation of China’s commitment to financial reform, and reaffirms Hong Kong’s role as the fulcrum of China’s broader economic integration with the global economy.”
汇丰亚太区副主席兼行政总裁王东胜(Peter Wong)说：“此项突破性的计划令全球投资者能进一步参与快速增长的内地市场，也让内地投资者可分散其投资组合。此计划进一步反映了中国推动金融改革的决心，肯定了香港在中国与全球经济更为广泛融合的过程中所扮演的关键角色。”
Opening up China’s financial markets to the world is a central goal of the package of overhauls announced by President Xi Jinping after a major plenum meeting of Communist Party leaders in November. Beyond allowing greater access to China’s stock markets, other proposals include easing the state’s heavy-handed control of bank deposit rates, currency exchange rates and the banking sector.
将中国的金融市场向世界开放是国家主席习近平在去年11月党的三中全会后宣布的一揽子改革方案的一个核心目标。除了允许外国投资者可以进一步参与中国股市以外，其他的建议还包括，减轻政府对银行储蓄利率、汇率和银行业的严格控制。