More and more I’m convinced that America right now isn’t a country dealing with a mere dip in its mood and might. It’s a country surrendering to a new identity and era, in which optimism is quaint and the frontier anything but endless.
我越来越相信，美国目前面对的不仅是在情绪和实力方面的严重下滑。美国正在向一个新的身份和时代投降，在这个过程中，乐观精神已经过时，天地不再广阔无边。
There’s a feeling of helplessness that makes the political horizon, including the coming midterm elections, especially unpredictable. Conventional wisdom has seldom been so useless, because pessimism in this country isn’t usually this durable or profound.
一种无助的感觉，让政治前景，包括将要到来的中期选举，变得尤为不可预知。传统观念很少这么不管用，因为美国的悲观情绪通常不会如此持久而深切。
Americans are apprehensive about where they are and even more so about where they’re going. But they don’t see anything or anyone to lead them into the light. They’re sour on the president, on the Democratic Party and on Republicans most of all. They’re hungry for hope but don’t spot it on the menu. Where that tension leaves us is anybody’s guess.
美国人对他们目前的处境感到忧虑，对于他们何去何从更感焦心。然而，他们没有看到任何东西、任何人能带领他们走向光明。尤其是，他们对奥巴马总统、对民主党和共和党均颇为不满。他们渴求希望，但却看不到希望。没有人说得准，这种紧张情绪会给我们带来什么后果。
Much of this was chillingly captured by a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll from early August that got lost somewhat amid the recent deluge of awful news but deserved closer attention.
《华尔街日报》和NBC新闻频道于8月初进行的联合民调，在很大程度上捕捉到了这种令人担忧的状况。由于最近出现了一连串可怕的消息，这次民调多少遭到了大家的忽视，但它值得我们给予更密切的关注。
It included the jolting finding that 76 percent of Americans ages 18 and older weren’t confident that their children’s generation would fare better than their own. That’s a blunt repudiation of the very idea of America, of what the “land of opportunity” is supposed to be about. For most voters, the national narrative is no longer plausible.
一个令人震惊的发现是，在18岁以上的美国人中，有76%不相信孩子那一代会比自己过得更好。本来美国应该是一个“机遇之地”，现在却遭到了这样直接了当的否定。对于大多数选民来说，关于美国的这种说法已经不再可信。
The poll also showed that 71 percent thought that the country was on the wrong track. While that represents a spike, it also affirms a negative mind-set that’s been fixed for a scarily long time. As the Democratic strategist Doug Sosnik has repeatedly noted, more Americans have been saying “wrong track” than “right track” for at least a decade now, and something’s got to give.
这项民调还显示，71%的人认为，美国已然走入歧途。虽然这个数字出现了激增，但也证实了美国相当长一段时期以来存在着一种消极心态。民主党策略师道格·索斯尼克(Doug Sosnik)曾多次指出，至少在过去10年，认为美国处在“歧途”而非“正道”上的人均多于持相反观点的人，对此必须做出改变。
But to what or whom can Americans turn?
但美国人可以靠谁或什么东西呢？
In the most recent of Sosnik’s periodic assessments of the electorate, published in Politico last month, he wrote: “It is difficult to overstate the depth of the anger and alienation that a majority of all Americans feel toward the federal government.” He cited a Gallup poll in late June that showed that Americans’ faith in each of the three branches had dropped to what he called “near record lows,” with only 30 percent expressing confidence in the Supreme Court, 29 percent in the presidency and 7 percent in Congress.
索斯尼克定期对选情进行评估。上个月发表在《政治人》(Politico)上的最新评估中，他写道：“大多数的美国人对联邦政府的愤怒和排斥程度怎么说也不为过。”他举例说，今年6月下旬进行的一项盖洛普(Gallup)民意调查显示，对于权力机构的三个分支，美国人的信念全都下滑到了他所说的“接近历史最低水平”：只有30%的人表示信任最高法院，29%信任总统领导的政府，7%信任国会。
The intensity of Americans’ disgust with Congress came through in another recent poll, by ABC News and The Washington Post. Typically, Americans lambaste the institution as a whole but make an exception for the politician representing their district. But in this poll, for the first time in the 25 years that ABC and The Post had been asking the question, a majority of respondents — 51 percent — said that they disapproved even of the job that their own House member was doing.
美国人对国会的强烈反感，也体现在ABC新闻(ABC News)和《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)最近开展的另一项民意调查中。通常情况下，美国人会痛斥整个国会，但认可代表自己选区的议员。ABC新闻和《华盛顿邮报》询问这样的问题已经有25年之久，但在本次调查中，首次出现了多数受访者——51%——连自己选区众议员的工作都不满意的情况。
So we can expect to see a huge turnover in Congress after the midterms, right?
因此中期选举后，我们有望看到国会大换血，对吧？
That’s a rhetorical question, and a joke. Congress wasn’t in any great favor in 2012, and 90 percent of the House members and 91 percent of the senators who sought re-election won it. The tyranny of money, patronage, name recognition and gerrymandering in American politics guaranteed as much. Small wonder that 79 percent of Americans indicated dissatisfaction with the system in the Journal/NBC poll.
我不是真的在问，这是一个玩笑。2012年，国会并不怎么受欢迎，但在寻求连任的众议员和参议员中，分别有90%和91%获得成功。在美国政坛，金钱、裙带关系、知名度，以及为政党利益改划选区的做法大行其道，保证了这样的结果。难怪在《华尔街日报》和NBC的民意调查中，有79%的美国人表示对体制不满。
Conventional wisdom says that President Obama’s anemic approval ratings will haunt Democrats. But it doesn’t take into account how effectively some Republicans continue to sully their party’s image. It doesn’t factor in how broadly Americans’ disapproval spreads out.
传统观念认为，奥巴马总统的支持率下降，会给民主党带来困扰。不过这种说法并没有考虑到，一些共和党人如何在持续大力损害本党形象，也没有考虑到，公众的不满正在多么广泛地扩散开来。
Conventional wisdom says that better unemployment and job-creation numbers could save Democrats. But many Americans aren’t feeling those improvements. When asked in the Journal/NBC poll if the country was in a recession — which it’s not — 49 percent of respondents said yes, while 46 percent said no.
传统观念认为，就业率和新增就业岗位的数字或许可以挽救民主党。但很多美国人根本感觉不到这些改善。在《华尔街日报》和NBC的民意调查中，当被问及美国是否处于经济衰退时——实际上答案是否定的——49%的受访者说“是”，46%说“不是”。
The new jobs don’t feel as sturdy as the old ones. It takes more hours to make the same money or support the same lifestyle. Students amass debt. Upward mobility increasingly seems a mirage, a myth.
新的就业岗位感觉不如以前的那种牢靠。在这些岗位上，人们需要花更多的时间才能挣到同样多的钱，或维持相同的生活方式。学生的债务在增多。向上流动性越来越像是海市蜃楼，像是神话传说。