HONG KONG — At first, the collision of the two front-end loaders on the dusty street in northern China seems like it could be a work-site accident. Then, as one witness murmurs in disbelief, the violent intent becomes clear. With their buckets held high like the horns of battling beetles, the two machines repeatedly slam into each other. Another joins the fray, toppling one of the first combatants. Yet another arrives, trying to right its fallen comrade. And then even more arrive to do battle.
香港——中国北方尘土飞扬的一条大街上两辆铲车的相撞，起初看来像是一起可能的工地事故。不过，随着一名目击者低声表示难以置信，相撞的暴力意图已非常清楚。这两辆铲车，像决斗的天牛举起硬角那样，把车斗高高举起，多次冲撞对方。另一辆铲车加入到战斗中来，将最先参战的两辆之一掀翻。又一辆开了过来，试图帮助倒下的战友。随后，更多的铲车也前来助战。
Some participants in the Sunday street battle in Xingtang County, in the Hebei provincial capital of Shijiazhuang, carried knives and guns, according to one report. But the most surprising weapon was the construction equipment. At least two people filmed the clash with cellphones, and the video was widely viewed on Chinese websites on Monday.
据一则报道，在河北省省会石家庄市的行唐县周日发生的这场街斗中，有些参加者携带着刀和枪。但最令人惊讶的作战武器是建筑车辆。至少有两人用手机将冲突过程拍摄了下来，很多人周一在中国网站上看到了这一视频。
Some commenters on Weibo, the Chinese microblogging platform, called it a clash of homegrown Transformers. The actual explanation is far more prosaic. A dispute between two concrete plants escalated to the front-end loader fight, according a statement from the Xingtang County propaganda office.
在中国的微博平台上，一些网友评论称这场铲车大战是国产版的《变形金刚》。而实际发生的事情要乏味得多。据行唐县宣传办公室的一份声明说，两家水泥搅拌站之间的一起纠纷升级为铲车互撞。
Workers in front-end loaders and sport utility vehicles from one company, the Jianwen Concrete Plant, had shown up at the Xinghua Concrete Plant intending to take over the work on a new development project, one Xinghua worker told Beijing Youth Daily.
建文搅拌站的工人开着铲车和越野车来到兴华搅拌站，试图抢走后者为一个新开发项目提供水泥的生意，一名兴华工人对《北京青年报》说。
Two Xinghua employees were injured, including one driver who was in serious condition after being shot in the chest, the newspaper reported. Six front-end loaders were damaged and two were toppled in the street, the government statement said. The case is still under investigation, it said on Monday, with no arrests yet announced.
据该报报道，有两名兴华员工受伤，其中包括一名司机，他被枪击中胸部，伤情严重。政府的声明说，有六辆铲车受损，两辆翻倒在街上。这份声明周一表示，此案仍在进一步调查中。目前还没有宣布是否有人被逮捕。