With hundreds of homes around him demolished, and fearing for his own, Zhou Jianbang, a man in Xingyang city, Henan Province, has built a half-dozen black “cannons” and stationed them around his house as warning to demolition teams to stay away, a state-run news agency reported.
随着周围数百户住宅被拆迁，河南荥阳市的周建帮担心自己的房屋也遭此厄运，于是自制了6门黑色“大炮”，摆放在自家房前屋后，警告拆迁队不要靠近，官方通讯社报道。
Photographs show several matte black cannons atop jagged piles of rubble, each mounted on a single axle with wheels on either end, and enlivened with brilliant red cloths tied around their barrels like capes. On them are written slogans such as “Protest demolition” and “Give my home back.” They apparently cannot be fired, reported Chinanews.com, the website of China News Service.
从照片中可以看到，参差不齐的瓦砾堆上摆放着几门哑光黑的大炮，各自架在两端有轮子的一根轴上，炮筒上绑着鲜艳的红布，像斗篷一样。炮身上还写着标语，比如“抗议拆迁”和“还我家园”。这些大炮似乎不能发射炮弹，中国新闻社的网站报道。
The protest was attracting considerable local attention, the report said.
该报道称，这一抗议之举在当地引起了大量关注。
Millions of houses have been demolished in China as local governments turn farmland or homes over for development amid fast economic growth. Often, homeowners resist the appropriation measures, with some people refusing to vacate, creating “nail houses” – single homes that stand in flattened neighborhoods, or even in the middle of a new highway. While the government usually compensates homeowners, some complain that the amount given is too low — or not forthcoming at all. Some people move gladly, welcoming the often better facilities of newer homes, but others mourn the loss of their old, established communities.
随着经济快速增长，地方政府征用耕地或民宅来搞开发，中国已经有数以百万计的住宅遭到拆迁。房主常常会抵制这种占用行为，一些人拒绝迁出，成为“钉子户”——房屋矗立在被夷平的社区中，甚至在新建的公路中间。虽然政府通常会对房主给予补偿，但有些人抱怨补偿金额太低，或者干脆拿不到补偿款。有些人乐于搬迁，以住进设施往往更好的新房，但也有一些人对失去了之前的成熟社区感到痛心。
A total of 340 homes linked to the Henan Construction Materials Factory, which was set up in 1953 and declared bankrupt in 2010, were to be demolished, the report said. Most of them were already gone; just over 30 remained. The local government was turning the site over to companies to build new apartments, the report said.
报道称，这次需要拆迁的住户共340户，隶属于河南建材厂的生活区。该厂成立于1953年，2010年宣布破产。大多数住户已经离开，只留下30多户人家。当地政府计划让开发商在这里开发新的住宅楼，该报道称。
Feng Baosen, 85, the retired chairman of the factory’s trade union branch, said few people opposed the demolition per se, since the buildings were in poor condition, China News Service reported. But two months ago his own home had been abruptly demolished and many of his possessions had been buried in the rubble, causing him “great pain,” the report cited him as saying. Mr. Feng said the local government had offered only 4,000 renminbi ($658) in compensation, which he considered far from enough.
已经退休的建材厂原工会主席冯保森说，对于拆迁本身，基本上没有人反对，因为这些老房子已是年久失修，中新网报道。但是两个月前，在85岁的冯保森不知情的情况下，他的房屋被拆，不少财产被埋在废墟内，让他“十分心痛”，该报道援引他的话说。冯保森说，政府这次拆迁每户只给4000元人民币，他认为远远不够。
Local officials have said that Mr. Zhou’s cannons aren’t illegal since they cannot be fired. Meanwhile, they are attracting crowds of onlookers, the news site reported.
中新网报道，当地官员说，周建帮自制的是假大炮，不构成违法。与此同时，它们吸引了大量围观者。