BRUSSELS — A plunge in oil prices has sent tremors through the global political and economic order, setting off an abrupt shift in fortunes that has bolstered the interests of the United States and pushed several big oil-exporting nations — particularly those hostile to the West, like Russia, Iran and Venezuela — to the brink of financial crisis.
布鲁塞尔——油价暴跌震动了国际政治和经济秩序，引发了命运的逆转——美国的利益得到了增进，若干石油出口大国——尤其是敌视西方的俄罗斯、伊朗、委内瑞拉等国家——则被推向了金融危机的边缘。
The nearly 50 percent decline in oil prices since June has had the most conspicuous impact on the Russian economy and President Vladimir V. Putin. The former finance minister Aleksei L. Kudrin, a longtime friend of Mr. Putin, warned this week of a “full-blown economic crisis” and called for better relations with Europe and the United States.
自6月以来，油价几乎跌去了50%，这对俄罗斯经济和弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统产生了最为显著的影响。普京的老友、前财政部长阿里克塞·库德林(Aleksei L. Kudrin)于本周警告称，俄罗斯有可能迎来一场全面的经济危机；他呼吁改善与欧洲以及美国的关系。
But the ripple effects are spreading much more broadly than that. The price plunge may also influence Iran’s deliberations over whether to agree to a deal on its nuclear program with the West; force the oil-rich nations of the Middle East to reassess their role in managing global supply; and give a boost to the economies of the biggest oil-consuming nations, notably the United States and China.
但连锁反应所波及的范围远远不止于此。油价大跌可能会影响伊朗，该国正在考虑，是否要就其核计划与西方达成妥协；迫使石油资源丰富的中东国家重新评估自己在控制全球石油供给方面的作用；并促进以美中为首的最大几个石油消费国的经济繁荣。
It might even have been a late factor in Cuba’s decision to seal a rapprochement with Washington.
它甚至可能已经在促使古巴决定与美国达成和解方面发挥了作用。
After a precipitous drop, to less than $60 a barrel from around $115 a barrel in June, oil prices settled at a low level this week. Their fall, even if partly reversed, was so sharp and so quick as to unsettle plans and assumptions in many governments. That includes Mr. Putin’s apparent hope that Russia could weather Western sanctions over its intervention in Ukraine without serious economic harm, and Venezuela’s aspirations for continuing the free-spending policies of former President Hugo Chávez.
油价从6月的每桶115美元急剧下跌到了每桶不到60美元，并于本周稳定在了这一低水平上。即便有所反弹，这种下跌还是太迅猛了，以至于影响到了多个国家政府部门的计划和设想。普京显然原本希望，俄罗斯可以挺过因为入侵乌克兰而招致的西方制裁，而委内瑞拉原本希望，可以延续前总统乌戈·查韦斯(Hugo Chávez)那种大手大脚的政府开支政策，但这些希望都变得渺茫了。
The price drop, said Edward N. Luttwak, a longtime Pentagon adviser and author of several books on geopolitical and economic strategy, “is knocking down America’s principal opponents without us even trying.” For Iran, which is estimated to be losing $1 billion a month because of the fall, it is as if Congress had passed the much tougher sanctions that the White House lobbied against, he said.
长期担任美国国防部顾问，且以地缘政治和经济战略为题出过若干本专著的爱德华·N·卢特沃克(Edward N.Luttwak)表示，油价的大跌“正把美国的主要对手撞翻在地，我们甚至都不用费事出手”。他说，据估计，此番大跌将让伊朗每月损失10亿美元，即便美国国会真的通过对伊朗实施更严厉制裁的决议——白宫一直游说国会不要追加制裁——其效果也不过如此。
Iran has been hit so hard that its government, looking for ways to fill a widening hole in its budget, is offering young men the option of buying their way out of an obligatory two years of military service. “We are on the eve of a major crisis,” an Iranian economist, Hossein Raghfar, told the Etemaad newspaper on Sunday. “The government needs money badly.”
伊朗遭受了非常沉重的打击，以至于伊朗政府为了弥补其越来越大的预算缺口，决定让年轻人可以选择用交钱的方式，来代替两年的强制性兵役。“我们正处在一个重大危机的前夕，”伊朗经济学家侯赛因·拉法(Hossein Raghfar)本周日告诉《Etemaad》报。“政府非常缺钱。”
Venezuela, which has the world’s largest estimated oil reserves and has used them to position itself as a foil to American “imperialism,” received 95 percent of its export earnings from petroleum before prices fell. It is now having trouble paying for social projects at home and for a foreign policy rooted in oil-financed largess, including shipments of reduced-price petroleum to Cuba and elsewhere.
据估算，委内瑞拉的石油储量是世界上最大的，它利用这种资源把自己塑造成了反“美帝国主义”的一个堡垒，在油价下跌之前，委内瑞拉95%的出口收入都来自石油。现在它既难以维持国内的社会项目，又难以支撑以慷慨资助石油为基础的外交政策，包括以折扣价格向古巴和其他地方输送石油。
Amid worries on bond markets that Venezuela might default on its loans, President Nicolás Maduro, who was elected last year after the death of Mr. Chávez, has said the country will continue to pay its debts. But inflation in Venezuela is over 60 percent, there are shortages of many basic goods, and many experts believe the economy is in recession.
债券市场担心委内瑞拉可能出现债务违约，去年在查韦斯去世后当选总统的尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)表示，该国将继续偿还债务。但委内瑞拉的通货膨胀超过60%，很多基本商品也存在短缺，不少专家认为，该国经济处在衰退之中。
But the biggest casualty so far has probably been Russia, where energy revenue accounts for more than half of the government’s budget. Mr. Putin built up strong support by seeming to banish the economic turmoil that had afflicted the rule of his predecessor, Boris N. Yeltsin. Yet Russia was back on its heels last week, with the ruble going into such a steep dive that panicked Russians thronged shops to spend what they had.
迄今为止，受创最重的国家可能是俄罗斯，该国能源收入占政府预算的一半以上。人们力挺普京，因为他似乎解决了前任鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)统治时期经济动荡的问题。然而，上周，当年的一幕在俄罗斯再度上演。随着卢布汇率暴跌，恐慌的俄罗斯人蜂拥到商店抢购商品。
“We’ve seen this movie before,” said Strobe Talbott, who was President Bill Clinton’s senior Russia adviser in the aftermath of the Soviet Union’s 1991 collapse and is now president of the Brookings Institution in Washington.
“我们之前已经看过这部电影，”布鲁金斯学会( Brookings Institution)会长斯特罗布·塔尔博特(Strobe Talbott)说。1991年苏联崩溃之后，他曾是总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在俄罗斯问题上的高级顾问。
Russia’s troubles have rippled around the world, slashing bookings at ski resorts in Austria and spending on London real estate; spreading panic in neighboring Belarus, a close Russian ally; and even threatening to upend Russia’s Kontinental Hockey League, which pays players in rubles.
俄罗斯的经济动荡已波及全球，奥地利滑雪胜地的预订量和伦敦房地产的消费支出出现了锐减；在俄罗斯的邻国和亲密盟友白俄罗斯，恐慌也在到处蔓延；就连俄罗斯的大陆冰球联盟(Kontinental Hockey League)也面临威胁，因为它向球员支付卢布。
“It is a big boost for the U.S. when three out of four of our active antagonists are seriously weakened, when their room for maneuver is seriously reduced,” Mr. Luttwak said, referring to Russia, Iran and Venezuela.
“对美国来说，这是一件大好事，因为四个积极站在我们对立面的国家中有三个遭受了沉重打击，它们的回旋余地已经大幅萎缩，”勒特韦克说。他指的是俄罗斯、伊朗和委内瑞拉。
The only major United States antagonist not hurt by the drop in oil prices is North Korea, which imports all of its petroleum.
美国的主要对手里，唯一没有在油价下跌中受损的是朝鲜，该国所有石油都是进口的。
David L. Goldwyn, who was the State Department’s international energy coordinator during President Obama’s first term, warned that an implosion of Venezuela’s economy could hurt the Caribbean and Latin America in ways that the United States would not welcome.
奥巴马总统的第一个任期内的国务院国际能源协调员戴维·L·戈尔德温(David L. Goldwyn)警告说，委内瑞拉经济如果发生内爆，可能会伤及加勒比和拉丁美洲，美国可能不愿意看到这样的情况发生。
But “on balance, it’s positive for the U.S.,” he said of the low price of oil, because American consumers save money, and “it harms Russia and puts pressure on Iran.”
但“总的来说，石油价格走低对美国来说是好事，”他说，因为这让美国消费者省了钱，“打击了俄罗斯，并给伊朗增加了压力。”
Marwan Muasher, a former foreign minister of Jordan who is now a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, predicted another domino effect in Syria as Russia and Iran find it difficult to sustain their economic, military and diplomatic support for President Bashar al-Assad.
约旦前外长、现任卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for InternationalPeace)副主席马尔万•马阿谢尔(Marwan Muasher)预测，这种情况会在叙利亚产生另一场多米诺骨牌效应，俄罗斯和伊朗将很难继续在经济、军事和外交上对叙利亚总统巴沙尔•阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)提供支持。
Others speculate that Persian Gulf oil producers, though still wealthy, might trim their financial support for radical Islamist rebel groups in Syria.
其他人推测，波斯湾产油国虽然还很富裕，但可能会削减为激进的叙利亚伊斯兰派反叛组织提供的资金支持。
Mr. Muasher said the drop in oil prices could also prod Middle East oil producers toward political and economic change by challenging so-called rentier systems in which governments derive much of their income from rents paid by foreigners for resources. “Whatever the case, it is clear that the effect of the new oil price levels will not be limited to the economic sphere,” he wrote in a Carnegie report.
马阿谢尔说，油价下跌也将推动中东产油国挑战“食利者机制”，进行政治和经济变革。在“食利者机制”中，政府的大部分收入都来自于外国人为资源支付的租金。“无论是哪种情况，很显然，新的油价水平都不会仅对经济领域产生影响，”他在卡内基国际和平研究院的一份报告中写道。
Hard-hit anti-American oil producers have blamed foreign machinations for their woes, suggesting that Washington, in cahoots with Saudi Arabia, has deliberately driven down prices.
遭受重创的反美产油国把问题归咎于境外反对势力，暗指华盛顿与沙特阿拉伯串通勾结，故意压低油价。
This view is particularly strong in Russia, where former K.G.B. agents close to Mr. Putin have long believed that Washington engineered the collapse of the Soviet Union by getting Saudi Arabia to increase oil output, driving down prices and thus starving Moscow of revenue.
这样的观点在俄罗斯很有市场，一直以来，和普京关系密切的前克格勃成员都相信，苏联的崩溃是华盛顿一手策划的，他们让沙特阿拉伯增加石油出口，压低价格，从而令莫斯科财政收入枯竭。
In many ways, the recent price fall really is the United States’ work, flowing to a large extent from a surge in American oil production through the development of alternative sources like shale.
从很多方面来看，近期的油价下跌的确是美国所为，很大程度上是凭借页岩油等替代性资源发展带来的产量激增，大幅增加了供应。
By offsetting declines in conventional oil production, increases in shale oil output have allowed overall American crude oil production to rise to an average of about nine million barrels a day from five million a day in 2008, according to the United States Energy Information Administration. That four-million-barrel increase is more than either Iraq or Iran, the second and third largest OPEC producers after Saudi Arabia, produce each day, and it has put strong downward pressure on world prices.
据美国能源信息署(United States Energy Information Administration)的数据，页岩油输出的增加，抵消了传统石油产量的下降，让美国原油平均日产量从2008年的500万桶增加到现在的约900万桶。这400万桶的增幅，比OPEC中日产量仅次于沙特排在第二、第三的伊拉克和伊朗都要高，这给全球油价施加了强大的下行压力。
While authoritarian oil producers like Russia are clearly suffering, China is enjoying a huge windfall thanks to the price drop. It imports nearly 60 percent of the oil it needs to power its economy.
俄罗斯这样的权力主义产油国无疑深受其害，但中国却从油价下跌中平白赚了一大笔。用于维持该国经济运转的石油有将近六成依靠进口。
China became the world’s largest importer of oil in 2013, surpassing the United States, and so stands to benefit from plummeting prices. Bank of America Merrill Lynch estimated last month that every 10 percent decline in the price of oil could increase China’s economic growth by 0.15 percent.
中国在2013年超过美国成为全球最大的石油进口国，因此油价暴跌对它是有利的。美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)上月预测，油价每下跌10%，中国经济就能增长0.15%。