HONG KONG — China’s trade surplus soared in November to a new high, causing the Shanghai stock market to jump sharply again on Monday, as the steeply falling prices of oil, iron ore and other commodities reduced the cost of imports and China’s exports continued to capture a growing share of world markets.
香港——由于石油、铁矿石等大宗商品价格急剧下跌导致进口成本下降，同时中国的出口继续在世界市场争夺越来越大的份额，中国11月份的贸易顺差升至新高，引起上海股市周一再度大幅上扬。
China’s General Administration of Customs announced on Monday that the country’s trade surplus had leapt to $54.47 billion, easily breaking the previous record, set only in August, of $49.87 billion. Chinese exports have mostly maintained their competitiveness abroad this year despite rising blue-collar wages. The central bank intervened aggressively in currency markets early this year to hold down the value of the renminbi, an advantage for exporters, and appears to have done so again in recent weeks.
中国海关总署周一公布，中国的贸易顺差已跃升至544.7亿美元，轻而易举地打破了在今年8月创下的498.7亿美元的先前纪录。尽管今年中国工人工资上升，但出口仍大多在国外保持着竞争力。央行在今年年初曾大举干预外汇市场，压低人民币的价值，而且似乎在最近几周里再次出手，这对出口商有好处。
The huge trade surplus comes as the Shanghai stock market has emerged as one of the world’s best performers this autumn. It has climbed 25.9 percent since the central bank cut interest rates on Nov. 21, including a gain of 4.1 percent on Monday following the release of the trade figures.
巨额贸易顺差出现之际，上海股市正在成为今年秋季世界上表现最好的股票市场。自从央行11月21日降息以来，上证指数已经骤涨了25.9%，包括周一的贸易数据发布之后上扬的4.1%。
The euphoria among stock investors appears to reflect a widespread conviction that the government will continue to stimulate the economy. Yet the export and import data on Monday showed clear signs of economic weakness even as the surplus surged.
股票投资者的兴奋似乎反映了一种普遍的信念，即政府将继续刺激经济。然而，周一的出口和进口数据显示，尽管盈余激增，但经济有明显疲软的迹象。
Exports were up 4.7 percent from November of last year, somewhat less than foreign economists expected, as growth in exports of mobile phones in particular slowed. Imports dropped 6.6 percent; most foreign economists had expected a small increase.
与去年11月相比，出口额增长了4.7%，但仍略低于国外经济学家的预期，这主要是由于手机出口放缓。进口额则下降了6.6%；而大多数外国经济学家曾预期进口会有小幅增长。
Shen Jianguang, a China economist for Mizuho Securities, said that weakness in the export and import figures was likely a harbinger of broader weakness in the economic statistics for November that the Chinese government is set to issue in the coming days. But the surging stock market may actually make it harder for the central bank to take further measures to help the economy, as it could stoke market speculation.
瑞穗证券的中国经济学家沉剑光表示，疲软的进出口数据很可能是11月份经济数据普遍疲软的预兆，中国政府将在未来的日子里发布这些数据。但股市的汹涌上涨实际上可能会让央行采取进一步帮助经济复苏措施变得更难，因为那可能引发股票市场投机。
“The stock market may delay the rate-cut cycle,” Mr. Shen said. “It’s crazy — the increase is a fever.”
沉剑光说，“股市可能会推迟降息周期。股市疯了，像发烧似地升温。”
While the real estate market is starting to show a few faint signs of stabilizing as the government has eased the rules on bank issuance of mortgages, the industrial sector is struggling with immense overcapacity for steel and many other goods.
随着政府放宽了限制银行发放抵押贷款的规则，房地产市场已开始显现出趋稳的一些微弱迹象，但工业部门仍在努力对付钢铁和许多其他商品的庞大产能过剩问题。
The computer models that most economists use to forecast import and export statistics rely heavily on indicators like surveys of purchasing managers in China and in big importing countries. These models tend not to include the effects of very large swings in commodity prices, like the steep plunge in oil prices last month, said Julian Evans-Pritchard, a China economist in the Singapore office of Capital Economics, a macroeconomic research company.
大多数经济学家用来预测进出口数据的计算机模型在很大程度上依赖于几个指标，比如中国的和主要进口国的采购经理人调查。这些模型往往不包括商品市场的巨幅价格波动的影响，比如上月油价的大幅下降，宏观经济研究公司凯投宏观(Capital Economics)新加坡办事处的中国经济学家朱利安·埃文斯-普里查德(Julian Evans-Pritchard)说。
“Imports from countries like Australia and Brazil really plummeted,” he said. Australia and Brazil are the two main exporters of iron ore to China, and the value of those shipments has plunged as iron ore prices have halved this year.
他说，“中国从澳大利亚和巴西等国的进口额真是一落千丈。”澳大利亚和巴西是两个主要的向中国出口铁矿石的国家，由于今年铁矿石价格减半，这些出口额大幅降低。
But Chinese imports from the European Union also fell by 6.8 percent from November of last year. These imports consist heavily of machinery, for which investment demand is slowing, and luxury goods like French handbags and Italian cars, at a time when President Xi Jinping is pursuing an aggressive anticorruption campaign that encourages frugal living by government officials.
但是，中国从欧盟的进口与去年11月相比，也下降了6.8%。这些进口主要是机械设备、以及像法国手袋和意大利汽车那样的奢侈品，对机械设备的投资需求正在放缓，而习近平大力开展的反腐败运动正在鼓励政府官员们节俭生活。
Prices have plunged not only for imported raw materials like oil, but also for semiprocessed goods like plastic and steel that are made from oil and other commodities. But falling commodity prices have not necessarily fattened the profits of Chinese manufacturers, as ferocious competition among them and chronic overcapacity have forced them to pass much of the savings on to their customers.
价格暴跌不仅涉及如石油这样的进口原材料，也涉及用石油和其他商品制造的塑料和钢材等半成品。但这些价格下跌并没有让中国制造商得到更大的利润，长期的产能过剩和激烈的竞争迫使他们把大部分省下来的成本转让了给他们的客户。