MOSCOW — A steep decline in oil prices is straining the budgets of major petroleum-exporting countries around the globe, raising a specter of spending cuts in Russia, where the economy is under pressure from Western sanctions, and posing a potentially grave security challenge for Iraq, which is already struggling to finance its fight against the Islamic State.
莫斯科——石油价格的暴跌正在挤压着世界主要石油出口国的预算，并引发了因为西方制裁而受到经济压力的俄罗斯对缩减开支的担心，伊拉克也因此面临着严峻的安全挑战——为了对抗伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，伊拉克本已在经济方面显得捉襟见肘。
From Moscow to Caracas, Riyadh to Baghdad, in Tehran, Algiers, Kuwait City and Lagos, political leaders, finance ministers and central bankers have been scrambling to confront the plunge in prices — roughly 25 percent since a peak in June — driven by increased production in the United States and by projections of sustained cuts in demand in many developed countries, as well as decelerating growth in China.
从莫斯科到加拉加斯，从利雅得到巴格达，在德黑兰、阿尔及尔、科威特城和拉各斯，各国政治领导人、财政部长和央行银行家都在紧急应对油价暴跌——与6月的峰值相比下跌了大约25%。美国的产量增加、对于许多发达国家的需求将持续下跌的预测，以及中国的增长不断减速的事实都是促使油价暴跌的原因。
The price drop is mostly welcome news in the developed world, and particularly in Washington. Countries like Russia, Iran and Venezuela that in recent years have sought to thwart America’s influence could begin to moderate their behavior, as they come under growing financial pressure.
发达国家，尤其是美国，大都乐意听到油价下跌的消息。俄罗斯、伊朗和委内瑞拉等近年来意图削弱美国影响力的国家由于受到越来越大的财政压力，可能会开始收敛他们的行为。
While Russia maintains reserves of hundreds of billions of dollars as a cushion for precisely this sort of price drop, there are already signs of tensions here.
虽然俄罗斯所持有的数千亿美元外汇储备，可以对这种价格下跌起到缓冲作用，但该国已经出现了一些紧张迹象。
At a meeting in Moscow this week with a government human rights council, President Vladimir V. Putin pointedly rebuffed a request for increased financing, citing the pinch from declining oil revenues.
本周，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在莫斯科与一个政府人权理事会会晤时以石油收益下跌为由，坚定地回绝了增加财政资助的请求。
“You know that energy prices have fallen as well as for some of our other traditional products,” Mr. Putin said. “Due to that, would we not, on the contrary, reconsider the budget toward reducing some spending?”
“你知道，能源价格出现下跌，我们其他一些传统产品的价格也下跌了，”普京说。“因为这一点，我们难道不应该重新考虑预算，减少一些开支吗？”
It was a notable departure from the bravado that Mr. Putin has shown in responding to Western economic sanctions over Ukraine, dismissing them as little more than an annoyance.
这充分证明，普京已经开始放下之前的好勇斗狠姿态。此前，对于西方因为乌克兰问题而实施的经济制裁，普京曾轻蔑的表示这不过只是小烦恼而已。
In another sign of mounting pressure, a spokesman for the Russian state-controlled oil company, Rosneft, accused Saudi Arabia of secretly manipulating prices — an echo of conspiracy theories about American and Saudi collusion against the Soviet Union during the Cold War.
另一个迹象也表明俄罗斯面临的压力越来越大。俄罗斯国有石油公司俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)的发言人指责沙特阿拉伯在秘密操纵价格——这个说法与冷战时期美国和沙特阿拉伯暗中勾结，共同对付苏联(Soviet Union)的阴谋论如出一辙。
Last week, Venezuela, which depends on oil for 95 percent of its export revenues, called for an emergency meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to address the steep slide in prices, a move that other members rebuffed in favor of a regular meeting next month.
上周，95%的出口收入都来自石油的委内瑞拉呼吁石油输出国组织（Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries，简称OPEC）召开紧急会议，以回应油价猛烈下跌的问题。由于下个月将召开常规会议，其他成员国拒绝了这个请求。
The price of a barrel of Brent crude, a global benchmark, was $83.78 on Wednesday, down from about $115 per barrel since its high in June.
周三，作为国际油价基准的布伦特原油(Brent Crude)的价格为每桶83.78美元（约合513元人民币），6月高峰时期的价格约为每桶115美元。
Experts on energy policy say that prices are nearly certain to rebound in response to normal market forces and continued strong demand, particularly in the developing world.
能源政策专家称，面对正常的市场力量以及仍在持续的强劲需求，油价几乎肯定会回升。
And some of the surplus that is dragging down oil markets is a result of production increases in Iraq and Libya, both struggling with instability that could shut down their oil fields at any time and send prices soaring.
促使油价下跌的部分多余石油来自伊拉克和利比亚增加的产量，但目前两国局势都不稳定，它们的油田可能会随时关闭，从而促使油价高涨。
But in the near term, the big producers will probably face budget problems in varying degrees of severity, with an array of economic, strategic and political ramifications.
但从短期来看，主要的石油出产国可能会面临不同程度的预算问题，给经济、战略和政治层面带来不同影响。
“It depends how long and how sharp the decline, but if oil prices stay around 20 percent lower, that is going to be very challenging for countries that depend heavily on oil to meet their budget requirements,” said Jason Bordoff, the director of the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University in New York. “Many of these countries have implicitly high break-even numbers.”
“这取决于油价下跌的持续时间和幅度，但是如果油价停留在下跌20%左右的水平，就会给严重依赖石油来满足预算需求的国家带来很大挑战，”纽约哥伦比亚大学全球能源政策中心(Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University)主任贾森·博尔多夫(Jason Bordoff)说。“这些国家里面，很多都需要高油价来实现收支平衡。”
Professor Bordoff said that Russia and Iraq faced particularly difficult circumstances, partly because of broader geopolitical tensions in each region. Russia, already squeezed by inflation and a drastic decline in the ruble, has found its ability to borrow money severely constrained by the sanctions. Iraq is facing a costly, and potentially open-ended, military conflict against the Islamic State.
博尔多夫教授称，俄罗斯和伊拉克面临着尤其困难的局面，部分原因在于它们各自陷入了广泛的地缘政治冲突。俄罗斯本已因通货膨胀和卢布急剧贬值而捉襟见肘，如今又发现其借贷能力因制裁而严重受限。伊拉克则是正面临一场抗击伊斯兰国的军事冲突，花销不菲，且有可能旷日持久。
“If oil prices were to stay in the range they are in now, we’ll see the Russian budget fall into deficit next year; that’s on top of the economic challenges they are already facing from sanctions and the decline in the value of their currency,” Professor Bordoff said. “Iraq has its own set of challenges with skyrocketing public expenditure requirements, large public payroll, food and energy subsidies. They need to rebuild a dilapidated armed forces.”
“如果油价保持在目前的范围内，我们将会看到俄罗斯明年陷入财政赤字。这可是雪上加霜，他们已经在遭受制裁和货币贬值带来的经济挑战了，”博尔多夫教授说。“伊拉克有自身面临的一系列挑战：激增的公共开支需求、规模庞大的公务人员薪资、食品和能源补贴。他们还需要重建其薄弱的武装力量。”
In demanding urgent action by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Venezuela’s foreign minister, Rafael Ramírez, has also thrown around conspiracy allegations. According to a government news release, Mr. Ramírez demanded “some kind of action to stop the fall in the price of oil, especially since we are convinced that it does not result from fundamental market conditions but that there is price manipulation to create economic problems for the large oil-producing countries.”
在要求OPEC采取紧急行动时，委内瑞拉外交部长拉斐尔·拉米雷斯(Rafael Ramírez)还抛出了阴谋论。根据该国政府散发的新闻稿，拉米雷斯要求“采取阻止油价下跌的某种行动，尤其是因为我们确定，下跌并非源于市场基本面，而是为了给产油大国制造经济问题而进行的价格操纵。”
The major question now looming is if OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, will cut production and stabilize prices at a meeting next month.
眼下摆在面前的大问题是，以沙特阿拉伯为首的欧佩克是否会在下月的会议中决定削减产量、稳定油价？
Some analysts say that is a logical step, while others suggest that Saudi Arabia may allow lower prices to persist, in part to squeeze its main rivals — Iran and Russia — and in part to put pressure on shale oil producers in the United States, whose higher production costs make it harder for them to compete when prices are lower abroad.
一些分析人士称，此举符合逻辑，但也有人认为，沙特阿拉伯或许会让低油价继续下去，一方面是为了挤兑主要的对手伊朗和俄罗斯，另一方面则是让美国的页岩油生产商承压。当海外油价较低时，成本较高的这些生产商将更难以参与竞争。
Saudi Arabia’s relatively low production costs and its domestic spending program allow for a balanced budget at a price of roughly $95 a barrel, compared with $100 or more for Russia and even more for Iran. Saudi Arabia also has huge cash reserves to prop up its budget while prices remain low.
沙特阿拉伯较低的生产成本及其国内开支状况，使得该国可以在每桶95美元左右的油价上取得预算平衡。相比之下，俄罗斯至少需要100美元，伊朗则是更高。沙特阿拉伯还拥有巨额现金储备，能够在油价持续走低的时候支撑预算。
“The question is how much are you willing to eat into your cash reserves and for how long until you adjust your production down,” said Gal Luft, co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, a Washington research organization focused on energy issues. “In the November meeting of OPEC you are going to see some of their members saying, ‘We cannot live with those kind of prices; we are going bankrupt; we want to cut down production.’
“问题在于，你在多大程度上愿意消耗自己的现金储备，在削减产量之前又能撑多久？”盖尔·卢夫特(Gal Luft)说。他在关注能源问题的华盛顿研究机构“全球安全分析研究所”(Institute for the Analysis of Global Security)任联席主管。“在欧佩克11月份的会议上，会看到一些成员国说，‘我们没法承受这种价格；我们要破产了；我们希望减产。’”
“Then you will have others, mainly Saudi Arabia, who might say, ‘Well, we don’t want to overreact.’ In the short run, I think most of the players can survive,” Mr. Luft said. “In the long run, beyond a year, I don’t think they have the means.”
“不过，还会看到以沙特阿拉伯为首的另外一些成员国说，‘可是我们不想反应过激。’短期看来，我认为多数国家能维持下去，”卢夫特称。“长期看来，过了一年的话，我认为它们不具备相应的资源。”