IN next year’s European elections, we must unmask our national politicians’ best-kept secret: that what they see as the be-all and end-all of modern governance, the nation-state, is fast becoming an obsolete political structure.
明年举行欧洲议会选举时，我们必须揭开一个欧洲各国政治家们严守的秘密：他们眼中的现代治理的最重要主体——民族国家，正在迅速成为一种过时的政治形式。
In Europe, a new generation is coming of age with lower living standards than their parents’. They are faced with a choice: accelerated integration or prolonged drift into irrelevance.
欧洲的新一代人正在步入成年，他们的生活水平比不上他们的父辈。他们面临着一个选择：是加速欧洲一体化进程，还是让欧洲逐渐沦为无关紧要的角色。
And yet the most ambitious plan to confront this perilous predicament is to make voting in European elections take place the same day throughout the European Union, and for the president of the European Commission to be popularly elected. That’s nothing like the Big Bang Europe needs.
然而到目前为止，面对这种危险的两难之境的最宏伟计划是，让欧盟各国在同一天举行欧洲议会的选举投票，民主选举欧盟委员会主席。但欧洲需要的根本不是这些，而是一场大爆炸式的变革。
The time is ripe for a transnational, transgenerational, transpartisan, grass-roots and crowd-funded movement to take European integration to the next level. And before forming a party, we should look to Europe’s success stories to determine what our platform might be.
通过一种由选民参与、各方出资的跨国家、跨代际、跨党派的行动，让欧洲的一体化更上一层楼的时机已经成熟。在组建一个政党之前，为了确定政治纲领，我们应该看看欧洲的成功范例。
Let the Finns teach us about education; the French about health care; the Germans about flexible employment; the Swedes about gender equality.
让我们学习芬兰的教育体系；学习法国的医疗保健服务；学习德国的灵活就业；学习瑞典的性别平等。
At the moment, European countries continue to take comfort in their Old World status symbols. We boast rich histories and beautiful monuments and draw the world’s tourists, who admire our culture, fashion and gastronomy.
目前，欧洲国家仍在享受着旧世界的身份象征带来的好处。我们拥有悠久的历史和雄伟的遗迹，吸引着全世界的游客，他们欣赏我们的文化、时装和美食。
But Old World status symbols and tourists won’t save Europe. They might save Paris, Berlin, Rome and London, just as they will save the Loire Valley, Bavaria, Tuscany and Oxfordshire. However, outside the museum-filled capitals and historic countrysides, the rest of Europe is plagued by chronic unemployment, dismal growth and rapidly aging populations.
但是旧世界的身份象征和旅游业救不了欧洲。它们也许救得了巴黎、柏林、罗马和伦敦，也可能会拯救卢瓦尔河谷、巴伐利亚州、托斯卡纳区和牛津郡。但是，除了博物馆林立的国家首府和历史悠久的乡村，欧洲的其他地区正在受到长期失业、增长前景黯淡和人口迅速老龄化的困扰。 It is not that our elected leaders are malevolent or incapable of facing this challenge. They simply aren’t wired to understand the central reality of politics today. It’s naïve to expect traditional politicians elected for four- or five-year terms by citizens from within a sovereign territory to adequately address issues like resource scarcity, deforestation, chronic unemployment, global warming and fishery depletion that are intrinsically global, and whose resolution will take decades.
并非我们选举出的领导者用意不良，或是他们没有能力应对这种挑战。他们只是无法理解当今政治的核心现实。如果认为公民在主权国家内部推选出的、拥有四年或五年任期的传统政治家足以解决资源短缺、森林砍伐、长期失业、全球变暖和鱼类枯竭等问题，那就太天真了。这些问题是全球性的，解决它们需要数十年时间。
Today’s solutions need to be transnational, or they won’t be real solutions at all.
如今，解决方案必须是跨国界的，否则根本解决不了任何问题。
By all means let’s continue rooting for our national soccer teams. But let’s not continue to be fooled by our leaders’ self-aggrandizing delusion that in terms of policy making, the nation-state is still the appropriate vehicle for our times.
我们当然要继续支持本国的足球队。但我们不要再被本国领导人妄自尊大的谬见所愚弄了，这个谬见就是：在政策制定领域，民族国家仍然是当今时代最适宜的主体。
Instead, we must fully embrace what many of us already sense — that we stand at the dawn of a new, postnational era in which Europeans can go from being laggards to leaders.
其实，我们必须充分认识许多人已经觉察到的现实——我们正在进入一个全新的、后国家时代，在这个时代，欧洲人可以甩掉落后者的帽子，成为领袖。
If we don’t, Europe risks becoming its stereotype of America: a place with the best hospitals, and millions of people without proper health insurance; with some of the world’s most advanced technology, and many with no access to it; with world-class universities, but generations held back by parochial worldviews.
如果我们不能认识到这一点，欧洲就可能变成我们刻板印象中的美国：拥有最好的医院，但数百万人没有令人满意的医疗保险；拥有一些世界上最先进的技术，许多人却无法使用；拥有世界一流的大学，但却世世代代被狭隘的世界观所局限。
We are, oddly, the last ones who still doubt our own political project. We complain that Europe is just an abstraction for its citizens, yet we haven’t yet passed the laws to create a European passport worthy of that name, or the framework to enable every European to truly embrace the European Union project.
奇怪的是，我们却是唯一仍然怀疑我们自己的“政治工程”的人。我们抱怨欧洲对其公民来说只是一个抽象名词，但我们却没能通过一部法律来发行名副其实的欧洲护照，或是建立一个允许所有欧洲人真正融入欧盟这一政治工程的框架。
There is an old Jewish saying, “If you have only two alternatives, then choose the third.” The point is not to replace Europe’s gerontocracies with a dictatorship of the young. This movement must be carried by all those who, regardless of their age, agree that we must shift power more toward youth to successfully reduce the debt we are saddling future generations with.
有句古老的犹太名言是这么说的，如果你只有两种选择，那么选择第三种。我们的目的不是用年轻人的独裁取代欧洲的老人统治。这项行动必须由所有人共同完成，无论年龄大小，但他们必须认同的是，为了减少强加给后代的债务，我们必须更多地把权力交给年轻人。
Younger Europeans have been born into austerity and have grown up as budget cutters and digital natives. Unlike our leaders today, they are well adapted to an increasingly rapid pace of change, and their instinct is to use the most innovative and cost-effective methods to achieve their goals.
年轻的欧洲人一出生就遇上了财政紧缩，他们成长在节衣缩食的环境里，生来就与各种数字技术为伴。与我们今天的领导者不同，他们很好地适应了步伐日益加快的变革，他们的本能就是使用最具创新性、最节省成本的方法达到目的。
In Europe, politics has become too much about how each nation would like the world to be, and too little about what produces tangible results. Rather than bickering over whose policies are preferable, we need a Pan-European effort to determine Europe’s best practices in every field and adopt them across the Continent. What does each country do best? What successful models are scalable? How can we leverage the combined experience, resources and tested solutions of all the European nations?
在欧洲，政治大多是关于每个国家希望世界如何，却忽视了怎样做才能产生实实在在的结果。我们需要一项泛欧行动，找到欧洲在各个领域的最佳经验，在整个欧洲大陆推广起来，而不是争论谁的政策更可取。各个国家最擅长的是什么？哪些成功模式是可以复制的？我们怎样利用所有欧洲国家的经验、资源、和经过验证的解决方案？
Europe will not be changed by the elections of 2014. It will change only when European-minded politicians who are elected to national offices agree to transfer power to truly European institutions.
2014年的欧洲议会选举不会改变欧洲。只有当心怀整个欧洲的民选国家领导人同意把权力让渡给真正的欧洲机构，欧洲才会改变。
We need to let our politicians know that we no longer buy their nationalist bluff, that we don’t share their fear of sliding into irrelevance if we give the European Commission and the European Parliament the authority they deserve.
我们需要让我们的政治家们知道，我们不再相信他们民族主义的空话，与他们不同，我们并不担心如果我们给予欧盟委员会和欧洲议会他们应有的权威，我们自己会滑落到无关紧要的位置。
Either we harness the power and the rich resources of the entire European network or let the pace of globalization leave us behind.
如果我们不利用整个欧洲的力量和丰富资源，我们就会被全球化的步伐甩在后面。
And the first step is to start voting not as French, German or Greek citizens — but as European ones.
行动的第一步就是投票，不是以法国人、德国人或是希腊人的身份——而是作为欧洲人。