New research may offer a consolation prize for whichever presidential nominee comes up short next November: Losing could mean a longer life.
明年11月，不管哪位总统候选人失利，可能都会从一项新研究中得到安慰：失败可能意味着更长寿。
Whether heads of government die prematurely is a long-debated question, and research has yielded conflicting results. For example, one study held that presidents might age twice as quickly as the overall American population while in office. Another study found no significant effect on the life expectancies of American presidents.
政府首脑是否会过早死亡是一个争论已久的问题，研究得出的结果也相互矛盾。比如，一项研究认为，总统在位期间的衰老速度，可能是全体美国人的两倍。另一项研究则发现，美国总统的预期寿命未受到明显影响。
Now, the largest statistical study of its kind, examining elections held in 17 countries from 1722 to 2015, has found that elected heads of government lived 2.7 fewer years and experienced a 23 percent greater risk of premature death than the defeated office seekers. The BMJ, a British medical journal, published the paper in its Christmas issue, which traditionally features peer-reviewed papers that examine quirky topics.
现在的这项统计研究是同类研究中规模最大的。该研究对17个国家在1722年到2015年间举行的选举进行了调查，发现和失败的角逐者相比，当选的政府首脑少活了2.7年，过早死亡的风险也高出了23%。这篇研究论文发表在英国医学期刊《英国医学杂志》(BMJ)在圣诞特刊中。该期刊的圣诞特刊传统上会刊登研究古怪话题的同行评审论文。
The analysis tested the hypothesis that elected presidents, prime ministers and chancellors experience accelerated aging and premature death because of the stresses of political life. The authors compared 279 elected heads of government from the 17 countries with the 261 runners-up whom they defeated and who never served as heads of state. The researchers determined the number of years each competitor lived after the last election in which they ran, and compared the findings with the average life span for an individual of the same age and sex in each candidate’s country during the election year.
分析验证了一个假设，即当选的总统和总理会因政治生活带来的压力而遭遇衰老加速和过早死亡。论文作者比较了这17个国家当选的政府首脑，和被他们打败且从未担任过国家元首的261名竞争对手。研究人员确定了每个竞争对手在他们最后一次参选后活了多少年，又对得出的结果，和选举年期间各候选人所在国家和他们年龄、性别相同者的平均寿命进行了比较。
The team did not specify in the paper whether the 261 candidates who lost did so in primaries or final elections. Dr. Anupam B. Jena of Harvard Medical School, the study’s senior author, said in an email that his team defined the runners-up as candidates who were never president or prime minister but could have served in Congress or parliament or held other offices. The paper did not address whether the stress of some congressional or parliamentary leadership positions may affect longevity.
研究团队未在文章中说明这261名被击败的候选人是在初选还是最后的选举中败北的。论文的作者之一、哈佛大学医学院博士阿努帕姆·B·杰纳(Anupam B. Jena)在电子邮件中表示，他所在的团队对竞争对手的定义是从未担任过总统或总理，但可能在国会或议会或是其他机构任过职的候选人。文章未提及一些国会或议会领导职位的压力是否可能影响寿命。
Dr. Jena’s team said earlier studies of elected leaders that found no ill effects on health and longevity had sample sizes that were too small to detect statistically significant differences. So his team designed its study to overcome such limitations.
杰纳所在的团队表示，早前发现当选领导人的健康和寿命未受到不利影响的研究样本规模太小，无法发现统计学意义上的显著差异。因此，他的团队在设计该研究时克服了这类缺陷。
In one of those earlier studies, from 2011, S. Jay Olshansky, an expert in aging at the University of Illinois at Chicago, reported that most presidents of the United States actually lived longer than other American men their age.
早前的其中一项研究是2011年进行的。在该研究中，伊利诺伊大学芝加哥分校(University of Illinois at Chicago)的衰老问题专家S·杰伊·奥尔尚斯基(S. Jay Olshansky)称，美国大部分总统其实都比美国其他同龄男性更长寿。
Dr. Olshansky said in an interview by email that he welcomed the new study because it was broader and set out to answer questions his analysis was not designed to address.
奥尔尚斯基博士在通过电子邮件接受采访时表示，他对前述新研究表示欢迎，因为它的范围更广，且出发点是为了回答他在设计自己的分析时没涉及到的问题。
But Dr. Olshansky he said he was disappointed by the new study for two principal reasons.
但奥尔尚斯基表示，因为两大原因，他对该研究感到失望。
First, he said, the authors did not eliminate “causes of death that were unrelated to aging, such as being at the wrong end of a gun,” which could have affected the findings.
他说，首先是作者没有排除“和衰老无关的死因，比如被枪击”，它们可能影响了研究结果。
Second, he said, authors of the new study “provide no measure of accelerated aging” and thus could not effectively test that part of their hypothesis. Although his study began with the assumption that a United States president lost two days of life for every day in office, he still found that such leaders “did not experience accelerated aging.”
其次，他说新研究论文的作者“没有提供衡量衰老加速的尺度”，因此未能有效验证他们假设中的相关部分。尽管他的研究是从假设美国总统每在位一天，寿命就会减少两天的假设开始的，但他依然发现，这些领导人“并未遇到衰老加速”。
“Most of the changes we see in the form of gray hair and wrinkles observed in presidents and other political leaders during their time in office is normal aging that occurs to everyone during this phase of life,” Dr. Olshansky said. “We don’t die of gray hair and wrinkled skin.”
“总统和其他政治领袖在位期间，我们看到的以头发灰白和皱纹的形式表现出来的变化中，大部分是所有人在这个阶段都会出现的正常衰老，”奥尔尚斯基博士说。“我们不会死于头发变白和皮肤起皱纹。”
In addition to Dr. Jena, the authors of the new study were Andrew R. Olenski, a health care policy research assistant at Harvard Medical School, and Matthew V. Abola, a medical student at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland who assisted Dr. Jena. A grant from the National Institutes of Health paid for the study.
除杰纳博士外，这篇研究论文的另外两名作者分别是哈佛大学医学院医疗政策研究助理安德鲁·R·奥伦斯基(Andrew R. Olenski)，和杰纳的助手、克利夫兰凯斯西储大学(Case Western Reserve University)的医学生马修·V·阿博拉(Matthew V. Abola)。该研究的经费来自美国国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)提供的一笔资金。
The researchers chose the 17 countries because of their similarity to France and Britain, for which reliable life tables exist dating to the 19th century. Life table data does not go back to the 18th century, Dr. Jena said, so his team estimated comparable life expectancies based on early 19th-century data. The authors cautioned that the findings cannot be generalized to other countries and that they could not analyze findings for each country because the numbers were too small for statistical analysis.
研究人员选择这17个国家是因为它们和法国及英国类似，现存的可靠寿命表可追溯至19世纪。杰纳称，没有18世纪的寿命表数据，因此他的团队以19世纪早期的数据为基础，估算出了类似的寿命。文章作者告诫称不能将研究结果推及其他国家，并表示他们无法逐一分析各国的结论，因为数量太小，无法进行统计分析。