My father rode the Xinning Railway once. He was 4 years old and traveling from Hong Kong with his parents and older brother to their ancestral village in Guangdong Province. It was 1936, in a China without six-lane highways and gleaming airports. They were returning to the countryside to build a new family home.
我的父亲坐过一次新宁铁路。他当时4岁，与父母和哥哥一起从香港回广东省的老家。那是1936年，中国没有六条车道的高速路或者熠熠生辉的飞机场。他们是要回乡建造新房。
They took a steamboat from Hong Kong to the riverside city of Jiangmen. The ship docked by a customs depot run by officials of the Kuomintang government. The family was carrying a red blanket to give to their grandmother in the village. The officials asked them to pay a tax on the new blanket.
一家人乘坐汽船从香港来到了临江而建的江门市。船停靠在了国民政府管辖的一处海关检查点。他们随身携带了一张红毯子，准备送给村里的祖母。官员要求他们为这张新毯子缴税。
They walked to the Beijie train station. The ride to Songlang, the station town closest to their home village, took several hours. Without the train, the journey would have taken one or more days.
他们步行至北街火车站，然后乘车到离老家最近的松朗。这一趟花了他们几个小时，不过，要是没有火车，路上至少得走一天。
The idea to write an article on the now-vanished Xinning Railway came to me after hearing stories from my father and his older brother, Sam Wong. The railroad cut through the heart of the lush Taishan region of Guangdong, the point of origin for many overseas Chinese. A private railroad, it had been built as a modernizing project for the region by Chen Yixi, a Chinese immigrant to the United States who had lived for years in Seattle and made a fortune as a labor contractor on railway projects in the American West.
听过父亲及伯父黄沃明(Sam Wong)讲的故事之后，我萌生了写一篇文章的念头，主题是如今已不复存在的新宁铁路。新宁铁路途经广东台山地区的腹地，那里树木葱荣，是许多海外华人的老家。这是条私营铁路，由陈宜禧一手促成，为的是给台山地区建造一个现代化工程。陈宜禧是旅美华侨，曾在西雅图生活多年，通过承接美国西部铁路项目的劳务而积累了大量财富。
Few people these days have first-hand memories of the Xinning Railway, though there are a couple of statues of Mr. Chen in Taishan.
如今已没有多少人对新宁铁路有第一手的记忆，尽管台山有几座陈宜禧的雕像。
“I was just 4 years old,” said my father, who is now 81. “I only remember one thing.” That was the red blanket.
“那时我才4岁，”现年81岁的父亲说，“我只记得一件事。”就是那条红毯子。
My uncle, 85, has other memories. A few years ago, he self-published a memoir about growing up in Hong Kong and China and immigrating to the United States. He devoted six pages to the railway. He wrote about the trip to the home village, Hop Wo, that the family took together in April 1936. He returned to Hong Kong two years later along the same route, but by then officials had suspended regular train operations because of the war with Japan. Instead, what he called a “railroad automobile” was running — just two small cars with no locomotive. The engine was in the front of the first car.
85岁的伯父则有更多的回忆。几年前，他自行出版了一本回忆录，讲述在香港和大陆成长，后来移民美国的经历。书中用了六页纸的篇幅来讲述这条铁路。他写到了一家人1936年4月回到老家合和村的行程。两年后，他沿着同一条路返回香港。到那时，由于与日本交战，官方已经中断了日常的铁路运营。取而代之的是他称为“轨道车”的东西：两节小车厢，没有火车头，发动机就装在头节车厢的前部。
Later, after he moved back to the Taishan area, he spent a year of high school in classrooms that were in the railway headquarters. That was from autumn 1943 to June 1944, when the war was still raging. The headquarters was in Taishan City, not far from the village, and next to the West Gate train station. “We used the station concrete platform and nearby grounds for military drills and physical education classes,” my uncle wrote.
后来，他重返台山地区，在新宁铁路总部原址中的校舍上了一年高中。那是1943年的秋天到1944年的6月，仍属战事激烈之时。这座总部位于台山城区，离村子不远，临近西门火车站。“我们利用站台的硬地和附近的平地来进行军事操演和体育课，”伯父写道。
By then, Kuomintang officials had ordered the railroad dismantled so the Japanese occupiers would not be able to use it. My uncle recalled that from 1942 to 1945 he walked along the abandoned railroad bed between Taishan City and Songlang many times, usually to return to the home village on weekends. It took him about an hour to walk the three and a half miles, or 5.6 kilometers, through the green countryside.
但那个时候，国民党政府已下令拆毁新宁铁路，以免日本占领者加以利用。我的伯父回忆，1942到1945年间，他多次沿着这条废弃的铁路线徒步往返台山和松朗，一般是为了周末回家。这段5.6公里的路要走一个小时左右，沿途穿越葱翠的乡村。
“That section had many deep holes, to deter any possible Japanese military vehicle traffic, bordered by a narrow path for walking,” he wrote.
“那段路有很多深坑，为的是阻挡日军的一切车辆交通。旁边有条窄道，可供人行走，”书中写道。
When I went to Taishan in January to research the history of the railway, I collaborated with Alan Chin, a photographer with whom I had worked in Iraq and China. Alan was at the end of a one-month research trip in Taishan for a book project. His parents are from Taishan, and he has long had an interest in the region. We drove around and visited a few remnants of the railroad, most notably the Beijie station, where my father and his family had boarded the train for the first time.
今年1月，我回到台山研究新宁铁路的历史，合作伙伴是曾在伊拉克和中国共事过的摄影师陈本儒(Alan Chin)。为了写书，他前往台山做了一个月研究，彼时行将收尾。陈本儒的父母来自台山，他本人也对该地区长期抱有兴趣。我们开着车前往各个地方，探访了这条铁路的几处遗迹，其中最为出名的是北街站，也就是我父亲一家人第一次乘火车的地方。
We also stopped in Songlang, the station town by my ancestral village. It was little more than a cluster of homes and shops flanking a short, paved stretch of road. The most vibrant sign of life came from a three-story elementary school, from which we could hear children’s voices. Across the road was a stretch of abandoned buildings. One had a sign that indicated that the building had been the headquarters of the People’s Mediation Committee, a local Communist Party organization. Next door was a two-story building erected in the early 20th century that had belonged to a Kuomintang official, said a man walking around the front yard of his home, which was littered with rusty junk. The man pointed to an empty spot at one end of the line of derelict buildings – the Songlang train station had once stood there, he said.
在我老家附近的火车站所在的松朗，我们也逗留了一阵。除了一条不长的街道两旁的几座住宅和商店，这里就没什么更多的东西。最有生机的一幕来自一间三层楼的小学，里面孩童们的声音传到了我们的耳中。街对面有一排荒废的房屋。其中一座挂着招牌，表明它曾经是地方党组织——人民调解委员会——所在地。它的隔壁是一栋上世纪初修建的两层小楼，里头散落着陈年的垃圾。在自家前院散步的一名男子说，这里曾属于国民政府的某名官员。他还指着这排废弃建筑一端的空地说，那里就是松朗火车站的旧址。
On our visit to the Beijie station in Jiangmen, Alan and I were accompanied by two journalists from the Jiangmen Daily newspaper, which had recently published stories on the Xinning Railway. We had contacted one reporter, Zhou Huadong, to ask him about the railroad. His colleague, Tan Yueshao, then interviewed us about our own assignment.
陈本儒和我去北街火车站探访时，有《江门日报》的两名记者同行。该报最近发表了一些关于新宁铁路的文章。我们事先联络了记者周华东，问他这条铁路的情况。他的同事谭月韶就我们的此次寻访进行了采访。
Both of them seemed struck by the fact that our parents had personal memories of the railroad. The newspaper ran the story by Ms. Tan on its front page, with a photograph taken by Mr. Zhou of me and Alan outside the Beijie station.
对于我们两人的父辈都有关于这条铁路的个人记忆一事，他们似乎都颇有感触。《江门日报》在头版发表了谭月韶的文章，配发周华东拍摄的陈本儒和我在北街火车站门外的照片。
Alan told me later that his father had talked about the train while Alan was growing up in New York. “For him, it was always combined with the great loss of it, that it was never rebuilt,” Alan said.
陈本儒后来告诉我，他在纽约的成长期间，他的父亲谈到过这条铁路。“在他那里，总是夹杂着巨大的失落感，因为一直没有重建，”陈本儒说。
When the two of them returned to their ancestral village of Sam Hop together in 1989, Alan’s father pointed out that the dirt road on which their minibus was traveling was the old railroad bed.
陈本儒和他的父亲曾于1989年一齐回到老家三合村。父亲指出，他们乘坐的小巴行进的土路，就是当年的铁道路基。
“He said, ‘That’s where the old rail yard used to be. That’s where the old station used to be. That’s where the Japanese bombed the railroad’,” Alan said. “He would point at these spots where you could see nothing.”
“他说，‘那里以前是老调度场，那里以前是老火车站，那里是日本人炸铁路的地方，’”陈本儒说。“他指的那些地方，根本是一片空白。”
A quarter-century onward, there is still nothing much to see, except for weeds and earth and shadows.
四分之一个世纪过去了，那里还是空荡荡的，只有杂草、尘土和光影。