The military judge in the trial of Pfc. Bradley Manning decided on Thursday not to drop a charge accusing Private Manning of “aiding the enemy.” If found guilty, Private Manning could face life in prison without parole plus an additional 154 years.
周四，审判一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Pfc. Bradley Manning)的军事法官决定不放弃对曼宁的“通敌”指控。倘若被定罪，曼宁就可能会被判处不得假释的终身监禁，再加上另外154年监禁。
In February, Private Manning, 25, an Army intelligence analyst, admitted to having leaked hundreds of thousands of classified documents to WikiLeaks. He denied that he was guilty of 12 counts, including aiding the enemy, but pleaded guilty to 10 lesser offenses that could put him in prison for up to 20 years.
25岁的曼宁是军事情报分析师，他于今年2月承认曾向维基解密(WikiLeaks)泄露数十万份机密材料。他共否认了12项罪名，其中包括通敌，但是他承认了10项较轻的罪名，这些罪名可能会让他面临20多年的监禁。
The aiding-the-enemy charge carries the death penalty, but the government had said it would not pursue capital punishment, but rather life in prison with no chance of parole. Under military law, aiding the enemy applies to “any person who aids, or attempts to aid, the enemy with arms, ammunition, supplies, money, or other things; or without proper authority, knowingly harbors or protects or gives intelligence to, or communicates or corresponds with or holds any intercourse with the enemy, either directly or indirectly.”
通敌的指控是可以判处死刑的，但是政府表示不会对寻求极刑，而是选择无假释机会的终身监禁。根据军事法规，通敌的罪名适用于“任何曾在或意图在武器、弹药、供给、资金或其他方面帮助敌人的人；或者任何在没有适当授权的情况下，直接或间接地故意窝藏或保护敌人、向敌人提供情报，或是与敌人交流、通信或是以任何形式与敌人保持交流的人”。
The judge, Col. Denise Lind, said the government had provided sufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Private Manning knowingly gave information to certain enemy groups, like as Al Qaeda, when he passed hundreds of thousands of documents to WikiLeaks in 2009.
法官丹尼丝·林德上校(Col. Denise Lind)说，政府已经提供了足以排除合理怀疑的证据，认为曼宁在2009年把数十万份材料交给维基解密时，曾故意向基地组织(Al Qaeda)等敌对组织提供情报。
The defense argued in court on Monday that Private Manning did not act voluntarily and deliberately in aiding the enemy when he leaked the documents. But Colonel Lind concluded that Private Manning did have “actual knowledge” that the intelligence he leaked would end up in the hands of the enemy.
辩方周一在法庭上辩称，曼宁在泄露材料时并没有自愿或故意通敌。但是林德得出结论称，曼宁“的确知道”他所泄露的情报最终会落入敌手。
Colonel Lind also decided not to drop a lesser charge, which was an offense under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.
此外，林德也决定不放弃另一项较轻的指控，即曼宁触犯了《计算机欺诈与滥用法案》(Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)。
The Congressional Research Service reported in June that a number of other cases involving charges under the Espionage Act, including efforts to extradite Edward J. Snowden, the National Security Agency leaker, “demonstrate the Obama administration’s relatively hard-line policy with respect to the prosecution of persons suspected of leaking classified information to the media.”
美国国会研究服务中心(Congressional Research Service)6月报告称，一系列与触犯反间谍法(Espionage Act)相关的案件，包括引渡国家安全局(National Security Agency)泄密者爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)等工作，都“表明在处理涉嫌向媒体泄露机密讯息的案件时，奥巴马政府奉行了相对强硬的政策。”
In his testimony in February, Private Manning conceded to possessing and willfully communicating to an unauthorized person all the sources of the WikiLeaks disclosure, including diplomatic cables, parts of the Iraq and Afghanistan war logs, files on detainees at Guantánamo Bay, two intelligence memos and the “collateral murder” video of an Apache helicopter attack in Iraq.
在他2月份的证词中，曼宁承认拥有由维基解密泄露的全部材料，并且与一名未经授权的人就这些材料进行了交流。这些材料包括外交电报、一些伊拉克和阿富汗战争日志、关塔那摩湾被扣押者的文件、两份情报备忘录和关于在伊拉克一次阿帕奇直升机袭击的《附带性谋杀》(collateral murder)视频。
“I found the video troubling at the time, your honor, and I still do, but it’s just my opinion, though,” Private Manning said in February. “As I hoped, others were just as troubled — if not more troubled.”
“当时我觉得这些视频令人不安，法官大人，现在我依然这么认为，但这只是我个人的观点，”曼宁在2月说，“就像我想的一样，其他人也感到不安，或许更加不安。”
Steven Aftergood, director of the Project on Government Secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists, said that despite Private Manning’s intentions, some of the information should not have been leaked. “The video arguably was a matter of overriding public interest,” Mr. Aftergood said. “But many other records released by Manning and WikiLeaks had no obvious news value or larger public interest.”
美国科学家联合会(Federation of American Scientists)的政府机密项目(Project on Government Secrecy)负责人史蒂文·阿福特古德(Steven Aftergood)称，不管曼宁的意图是好是坏，其中一些信息是不应被泄露的。“这段视频可以说是一个最高公众利益的问题，”阿福特古德说。“但其他许多由曼宁和维基解密泄露的记录并没有明显的新闻价值或更大的公众利益。”
“Manning had privileged access to restricted information,” he said. “Not only did those records expose individuals to potential retaliation, but their publication signaled that the U.S. could not guarantee confidentially to others.”
“曼宁拥有访问机密信息的特权，”他说，“这些记录不仅把个人暴露在报复的风险下，它们的泄露还显示出美国无法为其他国家保守秘密。”
Private Manning opted to face a judge and not a jury. The court will reconvene Friday morning.
曼宁选择面对法官而不是陪审团。法院将在周五上午复审。
David E. Coombs, the lead defense lawyer, said Monday that Mr. Manning divulged the information simply to “spark reform and debate.”
首席辩护律师戴维·E·库姆斯(David E. Coombs)在周一称，曼宁泄露信息只是为了“点燃改革和讨论。”
Prof. Yochai Benkler, co-director of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, told the court in testimony last week: “Once you accept that WikiLeaks is a new journalistic organization, if handing materials over to an organization that can be read by anyone with an Internet connection means that you are handing over to the enemy — that essentially means that any leak to a media organization that can be read by any enemy anywhere in the world becomes automatically aiding the enemy.”
上周，哈佛大学法学院(Harvard Law School)伯克曼互联网与社会研究中心(Berkman Center for Internet and Society)联席主任尤查伊·本科勒(Yochai Benkler)在证词中告诉法院说，“在你承认维基解密是一种新型新闻组织之后，你将材料交给一个组织，该组织的报道可以通过互联网被任何人读到，如果这就等于你在把这些材料交给敌人的话——这实际上就意味着，向一个世界各地任何一个敌人都可以读到的媒体机构泄露了机密，必定就构成通敌。”
The defense cited U.S. v. Jordan, a case that did not charge the defendant with stealing an entire database. Mr. Coombs further argued that the government has not proved that having taken the information was “wrongful.”
辩护方援引了美国诉约旦(U.S. v. Jordan)一案，其中的被告并未被指控窃取整个数据库。库姆斯进一步辩称，政府并没有证明获取信息是“不法的”。
Private Manning opted to face the judge alone, and not a jury. Colonel Lind will hear closing arguments as early as Friday before moving into the sentencing phase.
曼宁选择独自面对法官，不要陪审团。林德上校最早将在周五听取结案陈词，随后将进入审判阶段。