FORT MEADE, Md. — A military judge sentenced Pfc. Bradley Manning on Wednesday to 35 years in prison for providing more than 700,000 government files to WikiLeaks, a gigantic leak that lifted the veil on American military and diplomatic activities around the world.
马里兰州米德堡——周三，军事法庭的一名法官判处向维基解密(WikiLeaks)提供了70多万份政府文件的一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Bradley Manning)有期徒刑35年，这一大规模泄密事件掀开了美国在全球的军事和外交活动的面纱。
The sentence is the longest ever handed down in a case involving a leak of United States government information for the purpose of having the information reported to the public. Private Manning, 25, will be eligible for parole in about seven years, his lawyer said.
在涉及出于让公众知晓的目的而泄露美国政府信息的案件中，该判决的刑期是有史以来最长的。据其律师称，25岁的曼宁大约7年后才有资格申请假释。
In a two-minute hearing on Wednesday morning, the judge, Col. Denise R. Lind of the Army, also said that Private Manning would be dishonorably discharged and reduced in rank from private first class to private, the lowest rank in the military. She said he would forfeit his pay but she did not impose a fine.
周三上午，在一个时长两分钟的听证会上，陆军法官丹尼丝·林德上校(Col. Denise Lind)同时表示，曼宁将被勒令退伍，其军衔也将从一等兵降为列兵，列兵是最低军衔。她说，曼宁的工资也将被取消，但她没有判处罚款。
Before the sentencing, Private Manning sat leaning forward with his hands folded, whispering to his lawyer, David Coombs. His aunt and two cousins sat quietly behind him. As Colonel Lind read the sentence, Private Manning stood, showing no expression. He did not make a statement.
判决宣布前，曼宁双手交叉地坐在那里，身体前倾，低声和他的律师戴维·库姆斯(David Coombs)说着什么。他的姑姑和两名亲戚静静地坐在他的身后。在林德上校宣判时，曼宁面无表情地站在那里。他没有发表声明。
The materials that Private Manning gave to WikiLeaks included a video taken during an American helicopter attack in Baghdad in 2007 in which civilians were killed, including two journalists. He also gave WikiLeaks some 250,000 diplomatic cables, dossiers of detainees being imprisoned without trial at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and hundreds of thousands of incident reports from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
曼宁提供给维基解密的资料包括一段视频。该视频拍摄于美国2007年在巴格达进行的一次直升机袭击期间，在那次袭击中，多名平民遇难，其中包括两名记者。他还向维基解密提供了约25万份外交电报、未经审判便被关押在古巴关塔那摩湾(Guantánamo Bay)的人的卷宗以及几十万份伊拉克战争和阿富汗战争的事件报告。
Immediately after the judge left, military guards flanked Private Manning and hustled him out the front of the courtroom as a half-dozen supporters in the back of the courtroom called out words of encouragement.
法官一离开，军队看守人员便走到曼宁两侧，匆忙把他带出了法庭，此时后面的几名支持者喊出了一些鼓励的话语。
“We’ll keep fighting for you, Bradley,” one shouted. Another said, “You are a hero.”
“我们会一直为你争取，布拉德利，”其中一人喊道。另外一人则说，“你是一个英雄。”
Several hours after the sentencing, Mr. Coombs told reporters that he would apply for a presidential pardon for Private Manning next week. At the White House, Josh Earnest, a spokesman, responded that the application would be considered “like any other application.”
判决宣布几小时后，库姆斯告诉记者，他将于下周为曼宁申请总统赦免。在白宫，发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)回应称，将像考虑“其他任何申请一样”考虑曼宁的申请。
Mr. Coombs said he wept after hearing the sentence and recounted how Private Manning comforted him after they left the courtroom. “He looks at me and he says, ‘It’s O.K.,’ ” Mr. Coombs said. “He is a resilient young man.”
库姆斯表示，自己听到判决后哭了，还说了离开法庭后曼宁是如何安慰他的。“他看着我说，‘没关系，’”库姆斯说，“他是一个坚强的年轻人。”
Private Manning downloaded the materials from a classified computer network to which he had access as a low-level Army intelligence analyst while deployed in Iraq in 2010. The documents he gave to WikiLeaks set off a scramble inside the government as officials sought to minimize any harm, including protecting foreigners identified in some documents as having helped American diplomats or the military. No evidence emerged that anyone was killed because of the leaks.
2010年，身为陆军低级别情报分析人员的曼宁被部署在伊拉克。在那里，他从自己有权进入的一个机密计算机网络下载了那些资料。他提供给维基解密的那些文件在政府内部引发了一场混乱，官员极力想让影响最小化，包括保护那些在部分文件中被指认帮助过美国外交官和军队的外国人。目前，尚未出现有人因曼宁的泄密而被杀的证据。
Among other things, the files also exposed the abuse of detainees by Iraqi officers under the watch of American forces and showed that civilian deaths during the Iraq war were most likely significantly higher than official estimates.
此外，这些文件还揭露了美军对伊拉克士兵虐待被关押人员坐视不理，并且表明，伊拉克战争中的平民死亡人数极有可能远高于官方的估计。
“It’s outrageous,” one supporter who had been in the courtroom, Laura Watkins, 63, of Alexandria, Va., said of the sentence. “What I’ve seen is a travesty of justice.”
“这太过分了，”在法庭内旁听的支持者、63岁的弗吉尼亚州亚历山德里亚人劳拉·瓦特金斯(Laura Watkins)这样评价判决结果。“我看到的是一场对司法公正的嘲弄。”
Under the military system, convicts are eligible for parole after serving a third of their sentences, and Private Manning is receiving 1,294 days credit — a little more than three years — for time already in custody and for a 112-day period in which the judge ruled he was mistreated during pretrial confinement. He is expected to serve his time at the Army prison at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
在军队系统中，犯人在刑期过去三分之一后可以申请假释，曼宁现在有1294天可以折算为刑期——三年多一点——其中包括被羁押的时间，另外法官还裁决曼宁在预审监禁期间遭到不公待遇，另外加了112天折算刑期。预计他会在堪萨斯州李文沃斯堡的陆军监狱服刑。
There have been only a handful of previous convictions in cases involving leak accusations, none resulting in a comparably severe sentence.
在此前涉及泄密指控的案件中，定罪的并不多，给出如此严厉的刑期的更是一个也没有。
Steven Aftergood, a government secrecy specialist with the Federation of American Scientists, said Private Manning’s 35-year sentence reflected how much his case — involving leaks of entire archives, not singular documents or discrete pieces of information — differed from what had come before it.
美国科学家联合会(Federation of American Scientists)的政府机密专家史蒂文·阿福特古德(Steven Aftergood)说，曼宁的35年刑期反映出该案和以往案件的差别之大。本案涉及的是整个档案库的泄露，而不是某一份文档或部分机密信息。
“It reflects the gravity of the case and the government’s perception of the damage that was done,” Mr. Aftergood said. “Among other things, it is also the most voluminous leak ever, and also the broadest in scope including diplomatic, military and other records. So it was a qualitatively new kind of leak, and the government responded aggressively.”
“这说明了本案的严重性，以及政府认为它造成了多大的损失，”阿福特古德说。“还有一点，它是有史以来规模最大的泄密事件，也是范围最广的，涉及外交、军事和其他资料。所以这是一次全新种类的泄密事件，和以往有质的不同，因而政府采取了激烈的反应。”
Colonel Lind could have sentenced Private Manning to up to 90 years. She found him guilty last month of most of the charges against him, including six counts of violating the Espionage Act, but acquitted him of the most serious charge, aiding the enemy, which had never before been filed in a leak case. Private Manning’s sentence must be reviewed by the so-called convening authority, a general who oversees the Military District of Washington and has the power to reduce the term but not add to it. The case will then automatically come before the Army Court of Criminal Appeals.
林德上校本可以给曼宁定一个最高达90年的刑期。她在上月裁定，曼宁被控的罪名大多数是成立的，其中包括六项触犯《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)的指控，但是对最严重的通敌指控做出了无罪裁决，这种指控此前从未在泄密案中使用过。曼宁的判决还需要经过所谓召集人的核准，召集人是一名执掌华盛顿军区(Military District of Washington)的将军，他有权缩短刑期，但无权延长。而后此案将自动转往陆军刑事上诉庭(Army Court of Criminal Appeals)。
In seeking a 60-year sentence, prosecutors argued that Private Manning had betrayed the trust of the government and said they hoped a severe punishment would discourage future leaks. They also had asked the judge to impose a fine of $100,000 to repay some of what was spent on efforts to mitigate damage, including identifying individuals who officials said had been put at risk by the disclosures.
检方希望的刑期是60年，他们指出曼宁辜负了政府的信任，他们希望能通过严厉惩罚吓阻未来的泄密者。他们还请求法官判处10万美元罚款，用于偿还为减少损失而耗费的资金，例如鉴别出在泄密后有哪些人被置于险境。
Mr. Coombs argued that Private Manning had leaked the files because he wanted to start a public debate and bring about change, portraying his client as a well-intentioned, if naïve, whistle-blower.
库姆斯指出，曼宁之所以泄露文件是希望开启一场公共辩论，促成改革，他形容自己的委托人是一个虽显幼稚但动机良好的泄密者。
But Mr. Coombs, seeking leniency, also argued that his client was confused at the time by stresses, including a crisis over his gender identity while in a combat zone. He elicited testimony showing that the military played down serious and recurring signs that Private Manning’s mental health was deteriorating, allowing him to maintain his access to classified information.
但寻求宽大的库姆斯还说，他的委托人在当时由于精神紧张而出现思维混乱，紧张的缘由包括有一次在战区出现性取向困惑的危机。他援引证词表明，军方对曼宁精神状况恶化的严重性和反复出现的相关迹象没有进行重视，令他得以继续接触到保密信息。