A military judge on Tuesday found Pfc. Bradley Manning not guilty of “aiding the enemy” for his release of hundreds of thousands of military and diplomatic documents to WikiLeaks. But she convicted him of multiple counts of violating the Espionage Act, stealing government property and other charges that could result in a maximum sentence of 136 years.
马里兰州米德堡——本周二，一名军事法官裁定，被控向维基解密(WikiLeaks)泄露数以万计的军事和外交文件的美国陆军一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Bradley Manning)“通敌”罪名不成立。不过，法官判决他多次触犯《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)、窃取政府财产罪名成立，并对其他指控也做出了有罪判决，定罪结果可能会让他最高面临长达136年的徒刑。
In delivering the mixed verdict, the judge, Col. Denise Lind, pulled back from the government’s effort to create a precedent that press freedom specialists had warned could have broad consequences for the future of investigative journalism about national security in the Internet era.
通过这样一个综合性的判决，法官丹尼丝·林德上校(Col. Denise Lind)放弃了政府开创一个先例的努力，新闻自由专家已经警告，在互联网时代，这样的先例会对国家安全领域的调查性新闻报道造成深远影响。
Colonel Lind marched through a quick litany of the charges and specifications against Private Manning, 25, who stood quietly in his dress uniform as she spoke. She said she would issue findings later that would explain her ruling.
林德上校快速宣读了针对25岁的一等兵曼宁的一长串指控和具体说明，她发言时，穿着一身军装的曼宁静静地站着。林德上校说，她会在之后发布法律发现来阐释她的判决。
The sentencing phase in the court-martial will begin on Wednesday with more than 20 witnesses each for the prosecution and the defense. It could last weeks; there is no minimum sentence in the military justice system. Subsequent appeals could take years, legal specialists said.
军事法庭的量刑阶段将于周三开始，检方和被告各有20多名证人。这个过程可能会持续数周；在军事司法制度中不存在最低量刑一说。法律专家说，随后的上诉可能要耗费数年时间。
Most reporters watched the proceedings from a closed-circuit feed in a filing center. One who was able to watch from inside the small courtroom here said Private Manning at first appeared relaxed when he entered the room, smiling and drinking from his water bottle. But as the hour drew near he grew more stoic, and he showed no emotion as Colonel Lind read her findings.
大多数记者在一所备案中心通过闭路电视观看了庭审过程。一名得以在这里的一座小型法庭亲眼目睹审判过程的人士说，曼宁进入法庭后，一开始表情轻松，他面带微笑，喝着手里的瓶装水。然而，随着开庭时间的临近，他开始板起脸来，林德上校宣读判决结果时更是全无表情。
The aiding the enemy charge was the first in the list, and she said “not guilty.” But she quickly moved into a long list of guilty findings for the bulk of the remaining charges, including six counts of violating the Espionage Act, five of stealing government property, and one violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Each of those carries up to a 10-year sentence. She also found Private Manning guilty of various lesser charges, including multiple counts of disobeying orders. But Colonel Lind accepted his lesser guilty pleas on two counts, one of which involved leaking a video of an American helicopter attack in Baghdad that killed a group of men.
针对列在罪名之首的通敌指控，林德说“罪名不成立”。不过，她迅速转到剩下的大量指控上，并宣判他犯了一长串的罪，包括六次触犯《反间谍法》、五次窃取政府财产、一次违反《计算机欺诈与滥用法案》(Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)。每项罪名都会导致最高长达10年的徒刑。对多项较轻的指控，她也判决曼宁有罪，包括多次违抗命令。不过，林德上校接受了他对其中两次较轻的犯罪行为的认罪答辩，其中一次涉及一段视频的泄露，内容是一名美国直升机飞行员在袭击巴格达时杀死了一群男子。
She also found him not guilty of the charge that he had leaked a video of an airstrike in Afghanistan in which numerous civilians had died in late 2009; Private Manning had admitted leaking it, but said he did so in the spring of 2010, after the date listed in the charge.
她还判决曼宁泄露一段2009年末空袭阿富汗的视频的罪名不成立，大量阿富汗平民在该空袭中丧生；曼宁承认他泄露了这段视频，不过他说，他泄露视频的时间是2010年春天，是在诉讼中所列日期之后。
WikiLeaks, in a Twitter post, called the Espionage Act convictions “a very serious new precedent for supplying information to the press.”
维基解密在Twitter上发了一条帖子，称关于触犯《反间谍法》的定罪“在向新闻媒体提供信息的问题上给出了一个非常严重的新判例”。
Still, Yochai Benkler, a Harvard law professor who testified in Private Manning’s defense, praised the judge for making an “extremely important decision” to reject the aiding the enemy charge and thereby deny “the prosecution’s effort to launch the most dangerous assault on investigative journalism and the free press in the area of national security that we have seen in decades.”
但曾为曼宁作证的哈佛大学(Havard University)法学教授约凯·本克勒(Yochai Benkler)对法官做出了一项“极其重要的决议”表示称赞，该决议认定通敌罪不成立，从而挫败了“检方企图向国家安全领域的调查性新闻和言论自由发起的攻击，这次攻击是近几十年来最危险的一次”。
But he said that the potential decades of imprisonment Private Manning still faces remains a major blow to “leakers and whistle-blowers,” and that the prospect of decades of imprisonment “is still too high a price for any democracy to demand of its whistle-blowers.”
但他也表示，曼宁仍可能面临数十年的牢狱之灾，这依然是对“泄密者和告密者”的沉重打击，而且，身陷囵圄数十载的前景“对任何民主国家的告密者而言，都是太过高昂的代价”。
Months before the trial, which began in June, Private Manning had already confessed to being WikiLeaks’ source for some 700,000 files that vaulted the organization into global fame three years ago. They included videos of airstrikes in which civilians were killed; front-line incident reports from the Afghanistan and Iraq wars; dossiers on men being held without trial at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba; and about 250,000 diplomatic cables.
审判始于6月，之前数月，一等兵曼宁已供认维基解密的约70万份资料是他提供的。三年前，那些资料让维基解密这个组织名扬全球。资料中包括平民被杀的空袭视频、阿富汗战争和伊拉克战争中的前线事件报告、未经审判便被关押在古巴关塔那摩湾(Guantánamo Bay)人士的卷宗及大约25万份外交电报。
But the government was determined to press forward with the more serious charges against him. Because most of the facts in the case were not in dispute, the trial raised the more abstract question of how to understand what Private Manning had done.
但政府决意要奋力对他提起更严重的指控。鉴于该案的大部分事实不存在争议，审判提出了一个更抽象的问题，即如何理解曼宁的所作所为。
Throughout the trial, prosecutors sought to portray him as an “anarchist” and a “traitor” who recklessly endangered lives and betrayed his country out of a desire to “make a splash.” The defense portrayed him as a young, naïve, but good-intentioned humanist who wanted to prompt debate and who avoided releasing documents that could cause harm.
在整个庭审过程中，检方试图把他说成是一个为了“引起轰动”而不顾后果地危及他人生命并背叛国家的“无政府主义者”、“叛徒”。辩方则把他描绘成一个年轻、天真，但出于良好意愿的人道主义者，他希望引起辩论，同时又避免泄露可能会造成伤害的文件。
Hours before the verdict, about two dozen supporters of Private Manning gathered at the main gate to Fort Meade, some wearing T-shirts that said “truth.” They displayed signs to traffic with messages like “whistle-blowers keep us honest” and “thank you Bradley Manning.”
在宣判前几个小时，约24名曼宁的支持者聚集在米德堡军事法庭的正门处，其中一些人穿着写有“真相”的T恤衫。他们向过往车辆展示写着诸如“告密者让我们诚实”和“谢谢你，布拉德利·曼宁”等标语的牌子。
Ben Wizner, director of the Speech, Privacy and Technology Project for the American Civil Liberties Union, expressed relief that Private Manning was acquitted of the “most dangerous charge” brought against him, but criticized the espionage charges.
美国公民自由联盟（American Civil Liberties Union，简称ACLU）言论、隐私与技术项目(Speech, Privacy and Technology Project)负责人本·维茨纳(Ben Wizner)对曼宁被指控的“最严重的罪名”不成立表示欣慰，但对依据《反间谍法》判定的罪名表示了谴责。
“While we’re relieved that Mr. Manning was acquitted of the most dangerous charge, the A.C.L.U. has long held the view that leaks to the press in the public interest should not be prosecuted under the Espionage Act,” he said. “Since Manning already pleaded guilty to charges of leaking information — which carry significant punishment — it seems clear that the government was seeking to intimidate anyone who might consider revealing valuable information in the future.”
“尽管我们对曼宁受到的最严重的指控不成立松了一口气，但长期以来，ACLU一直认为，不应根据《反间谍法》起诉为了公众利益而向媒体泄密的行为，”他说，“鉴于曼宁已对泄露信息的多项指控认罪（这些罪名会让他受到重罚），政府显然是在寻求恐吓所有可能考虑在将来泄露有价值信息的人。”
Private Manning is one of seven people who have been charged with leaking information to the press for public consumption under the Obama administration. Under all previous presidents combined, there were only three such cases.
奥巴马政府治下已有七人被控向媒体泄露信息，并且信息得以公开，曼宁是其中之一。而在之前所有总统治下，总共只有三起类似案件。