PHILADELPHIA — Democrats arrived at their nominating convention under a cloud of discord as Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman Democratic National Committee, abruptly resigned after a trove of leaked emails showed the party conspiring to sabotage the campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders.
费城——民主党人在不和谐的气氛中迎来本党的提名大会。在大批被泄露的邮件显示党组织曾密谋破坏参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Senator Bernie)的竞选之后，民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)主席黛比·沃瑟曼·舒尔茨(Debbie Wasserman Schultz)突然辞职。
The revelation - along with sizable pro-Sanders protests in the streets to greet arriving delegates - threatened to undermine the delicate healing process that followed the contentious fight between Mr. Sanders and Hillary Clinton. And they raised the prospect that a convention that was intended to showcase the Democratic Party’s optimism and unity - in contrast to the Republicans - could be marred by dissension and disorder.
邮件揭露的事实——以及陆续抵达的代表们面对的规模可观的支持桑德斯的街头抗议行动——有可能会破坏桑德斯与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)之间那场激烈争斗之后开启的脆弱的恢复过程。它们还呈现了一种前景：一场原本用以展示民主党——相比于共和党——乐观与团结的大会，可能会陷入纷争与混乱。
Despite those concerns, Democrats are hoping that focusing on Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee, will galvanize the party to rally around Mrs. Clinton, and on Sunday those efforts received a major boost when Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican mayor of New York, said he would endorse her.
尽管存在这些担忧，民主党人依然希望，通过将大会的焦点集中在共和党提名人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)身上，能够激发本党团结在克林顿周围。周日的时候，纽约前市长、曾经的共和党人迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)表示他将正式支持克林顿，令这一努力获得不小的支持。
In her resignation statement, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, a Florida congresswoman, said she would continue to fight for Mrs. Clinton from the sidelines.
来自佛罗里达州的联邦众议员沃瑟曼·舒尔茨在辞职声明中表示，她将在外围继续为克林顿的竞选而战。
“I know that electing Hillary Clinton as our next president is critical for America’s future,” Wasserman Schultz said in a statement. “I look forward to serving as a surrogate for her campaign in Florida and across the country to ensure her victory.”
“我知道，让希拉里·克林顿当选我们的下一任总统对美国的未来是至关重要的，”沃瑟曼·舒尔茨在声明中表示。“我期待能以代理人的身份继续为她在佛罗里达及全美各地的竞选活动服务，确保她最后赢得选举。”
She added, “Going forward, the best way for me to accomplish those goals is to step down as Party Chair at the end of this convention.”
她还表示，“向前看，实现这些目标的最佳途径就是我本人在这场大会结束之时辞去民主党主席的职位。”
Donna Brazile, the DNC said, will be the interim chairwoman through the election.
民主党全国委员会表示，在竞选期间，唐娜·布拉吉尔(Donna Brazile)将担任该委员会临时主席。
In a statement, Clinton said: “I am grateful to Debbie for getting the Democratic Party to this year’s historic convention in Philadelphia, and I know that this week’s events will be a success thanks to her hard work and leadership. There’s simply no one better at taking the fight to the Republicans than Debbie.”
克林顿发表声明称：“我很感激黛比带领民主党在费城举行今年这次颇具历史意义的大会，我知道，因为有她的辛苦工作和领导，本周的大会将会取得成功。在带领民主党与共和党展开竞争方面，没有人比黛比做得更好。”
There was no word on whether Clinton’s campaign had sought Wasserman Schultz’s resignation.
没有消息显示，克林顿的竞选团队是否曾寻求让沃瑟曼·舒尔茨辞职。
Ben Jealous, a frequent surrogate for Sanders and the former president of the NAACP, said Sunday in Philadelphia that the move “allows us to heal and move on.”
周日，全国有色人种协进会(NAACP)前任主席、经常为桑德斯代言的本·杰勒斯(Ben Jealous)在费城表示，这一举动“有助于我们弥合伤口，继续往前迈进。”
On the eve of Clinton’s nominating convention, some prominent Democrats, including friends of the Clintons, were openly calling on Wasserman Schultz to step down and spare the party the distraction this week.
在克林顿获得提名的大会揭幕的前夕，包括克林顿的朋友在内的一些知名民主党人公开呼吁沃瑟曼·舒尔茨辞职，以避免该党本周的注意力分散。
“In politics, you need not only to know when to draw your sword, but also when to fall on it,” said James Carville, a longtime friend and adviser to the Clintons.
“在政治上，你不仅要知道何时拔剑，还要知道何时放手，”克林顿夫妇的老朋友和长期顾问詹姆斯·卡维尔(James Carville)说。
Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Mich., was even more blunt: “She needs to resign before it gets worse.”
来自密歇根州的民主党众议员黛比·丁格尔(Debbie Dingell)甚至说得更加直接：“她需要在事情变得更糟之前辞职。”
Wasserman Schultz had already been stripped of her speaking role at the convention, according to a senior Democratic official. She said in the statement that she would open and close the convention and address delegates about what is at stake in the election.
民主党的一名高层官员透露，沃瑟曼·舒尔茨已经被剥夺了在大会上发言的资格。她在声明中称，自己将在大会开始和结束时致辞，向代表们陈述这场选举的利害关系。
Convention organizers expressed nervousness Sunday about the specter of Wasserman Schultz appearing on stage at all during the four-day convention. They were worried that what they intend to be a well-choreographed event, which officials hoped would contrast with the at times chaotic Republican convention, could be marred by Sanders’ backers booing and heckling her.
周日的时候，大会组织方对沃瑟曼·舒尔茨在举行大会的四天期间出现在舞台上的影响表达了忧虑之情。他们担心，自己精心安排的会议会因桑德斯的支持者向她喝倒彩和起哄而遭到破坏。民主党官员们希望，这场大会能与不时陷入混乱的共和党大会形成对比。
The hack of the Democratic committee’s emails, made public Friday by WikiLeaks, offered undeniable evidence of what Sanders’ supporters had complained about for much of the senator’s contentious primary with Clinton: The party was effectively an arm of Clinton’s campaign.
维基解密(WikiLeaks)上周五将民主党全国委员会遭窃的邮件公之于众，为桑德斯的支持者在他与克林顿竞争激烈的初选期间经常发出的抱怨提供了无可辩驳的证据：该党实际上属于克林顿竞选团队的一部分。
One email, for example, revealed party officials discussing how to plant stories before primaries in heavily religious Kentucky and West Virginia that would highlight what they suggested was Sanders’ atheism.
比如，有一封邮件揭示了民主党官员曾讨论如何在宗教色彩浓厚的肯塔基和西弗吉尼亚两州初选前散布消息，突出他们口中的桑德斯对无神论的信奉。
Appearing on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Sanders called the attacks on his faith “an outrage” and reiterated his demand that Wasserman Schultz resign.
周日参加CNN的《美国国情》节目(State of the Union)时，桑德斯称对他信仰的攻击是“一种冒犯”，并重申让沃瑟曼·舒尔茨辞职的要求。
“I don’t think she is qualified to be the chair of the DNC, not only for these awful emails, which revealed the prejudice of the DNC, but also because we need a party that reaches out to working people and young people, and I don’t think her leadership style is doing that,” he said.
“我认为她没有资格担任民主党全国委员会的主席，不仅因为那些暴露委员会偏见的恶劣邮件，还因为我们需要一个可以打动工薪阶层与年轻人的政党。我不认为她的领导风格能做到这一点，”他说。
Wasserman Schultz has faced a flurry of negative stories during her five-year tenure as the committee’s chairwoman, with critics charging that she was more focused on promoting her own career than on the party, but she has resisted quitting. She is said to now be concerned about the effect of her resignation on her own primary: She is facing Tim Canova, a supporter of Sanders, on Aug. 30.
在担任民主党委员会主席的五年时间里，沃瑟曼·舒尔茨遭遇了一连串的负面消息。有批评者指责她，比起政党，她更注重推进自己的事业，但她一直拒绝下台。据说她目前在担忧辞职会给自己的初选带来影响：8月30日，她将对阵桑德斯的支持者蒂姆·卡诺瓦(Tim Canova)。