PARIS — After a debate lasting nearly two and a half years, France’s Parliament on Wednesday approved a bill to discourage prostitution by penalizing those who pay for sex, following the example of Sweden and Norway.
巴黎——在一场持续将近两年半的辩论之后，法国议会仿照瑞典和挪威的例子，在周三通过了一项法案，即通过对嫖客罚款来打击卖淫业。
The National Assembly, France’s lower house of Parliament, voted 64 to 12 for the bill, with the vast majority of the 577 Assembly members not voting. Parliament can approve legislation without a quorum.
法国国会，也就是法国下议院，以64比12票通过了法案，577个国会议员中大多数弃权。在没有到达法定人数的情况下，议会仍然可以通过立法案。
The French Socialist government, which had backed the bill, hailed the new law as a victory.
支持此项法案的法国社会党政府赞扬新法律的确立是一个胜利。
Prime Minister Manuel Valls posted a message on Twitter saying the vote was “a major advance” for the rights of women.
首相曼纽尔·瓦尔斯在Twitter上发帖说这个投票是维护女性权利的巨大进步。
The minister for women’s rights, Laurence Rossignol, told the National Assembly before the vote that prostitution was “violence done to women” and that the new measure would send a message to those who work as prostitutes that “the state, the Parliament and society finally recognizes fully the violence of the system of prostitution.”
维护女权的部长劳伦斯·罗西尼奥尔在投票前告诉国会，色情业是对女性的暴力，新措施将给妓女们传递一个信息“这个国家，议会和社会最终充分认识到卖淫业系统的暴力性。”
The measure first won approval from the Assembly in 2013 but was then turned down by the Senate, which has a majority of right-leaning lawmakers in contrast to the Assembly, which is dominated by left-leaning lawmakers. When the two chambers do not agree, the Assembly has the final say.
这个措施在2013年刚开始时获得了被左派立法者统治的国会的支持，但是之后被以右派立法者占多数的参议院拒绝了。当这两个部门有分歧的时候，国会拥有最终决定权。
Under the new law, first time offenders will pay a fine of 1,500 euros, or about $1,700, if they “solicit, accept or obtain relations of a sexual nature” from a prostitute in exchange for money. The fine can rise to 3,750 euros (about $4,300) for repeat offenders.
在新法律下，第一次嫖娼的嫖客如果以金钱为交换从妓女那里招揽，接受或者获得了性关系，将被处以1500欧元的罚金，大约1700美元。对于数次嫖娼者罚款可达3750欧元（大约4300美元）。
Convicted offenders may also have to attend classes to learn about the vulnerability of women in the sex trade. There is also the option for a settlement in which the offender could be ordered to take classes in lieu of the fine.
被定罪的嫖客也可能需要参加特定课程，学习在性贸易中女性的脆弱性。嫖客也可以选择用上课来代替罚款。
The law also repeals an existing measure that penalizes solicitation by prostitutes, which many viewed as having forced prostitutes to work in more desolate neighborhoods or outside of city centers where they were less likely to be arrested by the police, but also where they were less safe.
法律也撤销了一个已存的措施：惩罚妓女的教唆行为。许多人认为这一条强迫妓女去更荒无人烟的角落工作或者远离市中心去到一个更不容易被警察逮捕但是更不安全的地方。
Prostitutes who wish to leave the sex business will be eligible for funding to pay for training in other fields. But unions representing prostitutes and nongovernmental organizations that support them have complained that not enough money is allocated to help France’s 20,000 to 40,000 prostitutes, an estimate provided by various organizations and government agencies.
离开性产业的妓女将被资助参加其他领域的培训。但是支持卖淫业的色情产业工会和无政府组织抱怨说法国没有足够的资金去帮助20000到40000名妓女，这是根据不同组织和政府机构估计出的数据。
The law would also help foreign prostitutes acquire temporary residence permits and find other work, since 80 percent to 90 percent of France’s prostitutes come from outside the country and are victims of human trafficking, Ms. Rossignol said.
罗西尼奥尔说，这个法律也会帮助外国的妓女获得在法国的临时居留许可并找到工作，因为法国百分之八十到九十的妓女都是来自国外非法人口贸易的受害者。
Some prostitutes, however, demonstrated against the law outside the National Assembly on Wednesday, saying that it would further stigmatize them, hurt their business and push it more underground.
然而一些妓女周三在国会外抗议这项法律，说这项法律将进一步玷污她们，危害她们的事业并使它更加地下化。
France is in step with a European-wide trend away from laws that penalize women who offer sex for money, although there is little consensus over what approach to adopt to discourage the sex business.
法国与欧洲范围的立法一致，避免惩罚为了钱而提供性服务的妓女们，虽然对于采取什么方法来打击性产业人们几乎没有达到共识。
A few countries, now including France, penalize customers. Sweden was a pioneer, enacting such a law in 1999.
几个国家处罚顾客，现在包括法国。瑞典开了先例，在1999年制订了这样的法律。
But many countries have somewhat ambivalent measures. In France, prostitution is not illegal but buying sex is.
但是很多国家有一些自相矛盾的措施。在法国，卖淫业不违法但是购买性服务违法。
Some countries, like the Czech Republic, allow prostitution but prohibit brothels. Others, like Switzerland, allow licensed brothels but prohibit solicitation.
一些国家允许卖淫业发展但是禁止成立妓院，比如捷克。其他一些国家允许获得许可的妓院的存在但是禁止妓女的引诱行为，比如瑞士。
The Netherlands and Germany take a different approach, regulating prostitution as a business and requiring health checks and other measures to protect both the prostitutes and their customers.
荷兰和德国采取了不同的方法，将卖淫业作为一种商业来规制，要求健康检查和其他措施来保护妓女和她们的顾客。