PARIS — November is not January. That thought has been filtering through the statements of most French politicians and the news media, and most people seem to understand.
巴黎──11月的情况与1月不同。这个想法透过许多法国政治人物的言论和新闻媒体的报道传达出来，而且多数民众似乎也能够理解。
Unlike the response in January after attacks at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and elsewhere left 17 dead, there were no grand public appeals for solidarity with Muslims after the Friday attacks that left 129 dead in Paris. There were no marches, few pleas not to confuse practitioners of Islam with those who preach jihad.
与讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)遭遇袭击，各处共17人死亡后的反应不同，在周五导致129人死亡的袭击事件之后，大众并没有发起与穆斯林站在同一边的活动。没有集会游行，几乎也没有人呼吁，不要将信仰伊斯兰教的人与鼓吹圣战的人混为一谈。
Instead, there was a palpable fear, even anger, as President François Hollande asked Parliament to extend a state of emergency and called for changing the Constitution to deal with terrorism. It was largely unspoken but nevertheless clear: Secular France had always had a complicated relationship with its Muslim community, but now it was tipping toward outright distrust, even hostility.
取而代之的是明显的恐惧，甚至愤怒。法国总统弗朗索瓦‧奥朗德(François Hollande)请求国会延长紧急状态，并呼吁修改宪法，以对抗恐怖主义。这在很大程度上是不言而喻的：世俗的法国社会与该国穆斯林社群的关系一直都很复杂，但现在信任开始走向瓦解，甚至产生敌意。
The shift could be all the more tempting because the government is struggling to find its footing politically as it is threatened on its far right by the anti-immigrant National Front party.
法国政府正挣扎着找寻政治上的立足点，面对反移民的极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)所构成的威胁，这种转变显得更有吸引力。
Already, tough talk from officials in the government shows them shifting rightward, calling for new scrutiny of mosques, extending the state of emergency and possibly placing restrictions on the 10,000 or more people loosely indexed as possible threats to the state. France needs to “expel all these radicalized imams,” Prime Minister Manuel Valls declared Saturday.
由政府官员的谈话可以看出，政府正在转向右倾，像是呼吁对清真寺加强检查、延长紧急状态，甚至包括对宽泛地认定为可能对国家构成威胁的至少一万人施加限制。法国总理曼纽尔‧瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)周六称，法国需要“消灭所有激进的伊玛目”。
France had already been expelling handfuls of imams in recent years. But the attacks have not ceased, and experts point out that the paths to radicalization more typically run through the prisons or the war in Syria, not the mosques. At the same time, there are whiffs of hardening feelings — mosque desecrations over the weekend, and harsh words between non-Muslims and Muslims in the crowds mourning.
近年来，法国已经驱逐了一些伊玛目，但攻击并未停止。专家也指出，转向激进的路径，通常是监狱和叙利亚的战场，而不是清真寺。同时，一些冷酷的情绪渐渐浮现，周末时一些清真寺遭到破坏、在哀悼的人群中也掺杂着非穆斯林与穆斯林之间的对骂。
The concern among Muslims in France is palpable. “We’re already feeling the backlash. It started right away,” said Latetia Syed, 17, whose family gathered on Sunday near the Bataclan concert hall, where 89 people were killed on Friday, to pay respect to the victims. “There was a flood of violent language on Facebook to kill Muslims.”
法国穆斯林中间的忧虑情绪十分明显。“我们已经感觉到了余波，从那一瞬间就开始了，”17岁的拉特季娅‧席得(Latetia Syed)说，她周日与家人聚在巴塔克兰(Bataclan)音乐厅附近，向遇难者致哀。周五有89人在该剧院遇难。“Facebook上涌现出大量宣称要杀穆斯林的激烈语言。”
France’s imams “are all worried,” said Hassen Farsadou, the head of a group of Muslim associations in the Paris suburbs. “We are trying to figure out how to handle this.”
法国的伊玛目“都非常担心”，巴黎郊区的穆斯林协会联盟主席哈桑‧法萨都(Hassen Farsadou)表示：“我们正设法应对此事。”
Fear and suspicion are pervasive. “Today, I went to the gym, and I was wearing my helmet,” said Aykut Kasaroglu, a shop worker in the immigrant-rich Montreuil district. “The policeman stopped me and told me to take it off so they could see me. Everyone is suspicious.”
恐惧、猜忌无所不在。艾库特‧卡萨若卢(Aykut Kasaroglu)在移民聚集的蒙特勒伊区(Montreuil)当店员，“我今天戴着头盔来到健身房，”他说，“警察上前阻止我，要我把头盔摘下来，好让他们看到我的脸。人人都可疑。”
The grim public mood, with hardened jaws and frowns on the emptied streets, is bubbling up. Deep shades of distinction that previously separated France’s political groupings — left, right and far right — on how to handle the terrorist threat, or even how to deal with France’s large Muslim community, are blurring.
空荡荡的街上，人人眉头紧蹙、下巴僵硬，大众抑郁的心情急速上升。先前法国政治圈里有深刻的分界，像是左派、右派或极右派，但谈到如何应对恐怖分子的威胁，甚至如何面对法国庞大的穆斯林社群，这些分野逐渐模糊。
“We know, and it is cruel to say it, that on Friday it was French who killed other French,” Mr. Hollande told a rare joint emergency session of Parliament on Monday. “There are, living on our soil, individuals who from delinquency go on to radicalization and then to terrorist criminality.”
“我们知道，而且说来也残忍，周五是法国人杀害了法国人，”奥朗德总统周一在极少召开的国会两院紧急联席会议上表示。“他们是在我们的土地上生活的个人，从一些违法行为走向激进，继而从事恐怖主义罪犯。”
Similar words, references to France’s “enemy within,” recently have provoked an uproar, particularly on the left. But this time Mr. Hollande’s speech was met with universal applause, a singing of the national anthem and some rare praise from the far-right National Front leader, Marine Le Pen.
谈论法国“内部敌人”的类似措辞，最近在左派中激起了一番论战，但奥朗德此次的谈话得到了各方赞同，民众还紧接着唱了国歌，连极右翼政党国民阵线的领导人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)也罕有地表达了称赞。
As for the audience newly receptive to Ms. Le Pen, “certainly it will grow,” said Bernard Godard, a leading French expert on Franco-Muslim relations and former Interior Ministry official.
开始认同勒庞的新受众“一定会增加”，法国与穆斯林关系方面的重要专家贝尔纳‧戈达尔(Bernard Godard)说。戈达尔曾是法国内政部官员。
Anti-Muslim feelings that had been kept under wraps may no longer be so discreet, Mr. Godard suggested. On Sunday, tensions flared when a Frenchman, approaching a group of Muslim women in head scarves who were paying homage to the Bataclan victims at a makeshift shrine, began inveighing against the Quran as a source of inspiration for extremists.
戈达尔认为，过去秘而不宣的反穆斯林情节可能会不再低调。周日时紧张关系提升，因为有名法国男子靠近一群戴着头巾的穆斯林妇女，她们正在为巴塔克兰剧院的遇难者默哀。这名法国男子开始大骂，《古兰经》是极端分子思想的源头。
“The Quran says that nobody can take a life,” said one of the women, Abiba Trabacke, who was wearing a blue head scarf. She likened the killers to Nazis, adding: “They have nothing to do with us.”
其中一名戴着蓝色头巾的女士阿比巴‧翠贝可(Abiba Trabacke)说：“《古兰经》说没人能夺去别人的生命”。她将杀手比做纳粹，并补充道，“他们跟我们一点关系也没有。”
But the man persisted, and several women in the entourage burst into tears. “We are calling for peace and love,” one said.
但那名男子坚持己见，周围的几名妇女开始啜泣，其中一名说，“我们呼吁的是和平与爱”。
“Shut up!” a bystander yelled at them. “This is not the time to get into this.”
“闭嘴！”一名旁观者对他们大喊，“现在还不是来这招的时候。”
Mrs. Trabacke turned to the growing crowd. “You see this head scarf that I’m wearing?” she asked. “This is my conviction; it comes from God.”
翠贝可转向越来越庞大的人群。“你们看到我戴的头巾了吗？”她问道。“这是我的信仰；来自真主。”
The question, rights advocates say, is how far the government can go in restricting the rights of a mostly law-abiding minority without further alienating its more marginal members and driving them to the militants.
权利倡导人士表示，问题在于，要想避免这一少数族裔中较为边缘化的成员进一步感到疏离，并驱使他们成为激进派，政府对大多数遵纪守法的穆斯林限制权利的做法，能够走多远。
The Socialist government, with its intensified bombing campaign in Syria and its promises of an internal crackdown, is trying to stay ahead of a deeply uneasy public. But experts say its efforts may not be enough.
社会党政府加紧对叙利亚的轰炸行动，也承诺加大国内的打击力度，希望以此安抚高度不安的公众。但专家表示政府的行动可能还不够。
Ms. Le Pen’s criticism of Mr. Hollande on Monday may be more significant than her unusual praise. The president had failed to mention the “fight against Islamism” or the “indispensable cleaning out of the cellars and suburbs gangrened by criminality,” she said. In the National Front lexicon, Ms. Le Pen’s words — “suburbs” and “criminality” — are often code for Islam and Muslims.
勒庞周一对奥朗德的批评可能比她非同寻常的赞扬更有深义。她说，总统没能提到“打击伊斯兰主义”，也没有提到“从地下室和郊区清除滋生出的犯罪，这是必不可少的行动”。在国民阵线的语汇里，勒庞所说的“郊区”和“犯罪”，时常是在暗指伊斯兰教和穆斯林。
“There is a serious risk, in public opinion, that people will become more radical,” Mr. Godard said. “Maybe people will now say, ‘No, no, no Islam in the public space, not anymore.’”
“人们可能会更加激进，在公众舆论里可能存在这种严峻的风险，”戈达尔说。“人们现在可能会说，‘不行，公共空间里不能再允许伊斯兰教存在了。’”