PARIS — As heads of state go, this one appears to be quite expensive.
巴黎——在国家元首中，这个“首”似乎非常昂贵。
The investigative and satirical newspaper Le Canard Enchaîné reported Wednesday that President François Hollande’s personal hairdresser has been paid 9,895 euros (about $11,000) per month since Hollande was elected in 2012 — about the same amount as a government minister’s salary.
周三，据调查与讽刺类报纸《鸭鸣报》(Le Canard Enchaîné)报道，从2012年弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)当选总统起，他的私人理发师每月的工资为9895欧元（约合1.1万美元），直逼内阁部长的薪水。
The report is especially jarring for Hollande, 61, a Socialist who campaigned on the promise that he would be a “normal” and exemplary president but who has seen his private life spill into the open on several occasions.
对61岁的社会党总统奥朗德来说，这则报道显得尤为刺耳。他竞选时曾承诺自己会是一位“正常的”模范总统，但他的私生活多次遭到曝光。
It would be hard for Hollande to be less popular. He has not managed to deliver on his promise to significantly lower unemployment, especially among young people. His government has faced months of street protests over an unpopular bill to loosen France’s rigid labor laws. And he faces a potential challenge from his economy minister, Emmanuel Macron, who has hinted that he may run for president next year.
奥朗德反正已经不可能变得更讨人厌了。他没有实现显著降低失业率（尤其是年轻人失业率）的承诺。因为一项不受欢迎的放松法国严格的劳工法法案，他的政府遭到了持续好几个月的街头抗议。他还面临着经济部长埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)的潜在挑战，后者曾暗示可能参加明年的总统竞选。
The new controversy — the hashtag #CoiffeurGate, “coiffeur” being French for hairdresser, was a trending topic on Twitter on Wednesday — could contribute to the image as a president who is out of touch.
这项新争议可能会进一步强化他高高在上的总统形象。周三，#CoiffeurGate（coiffeur在法语中是“理发师”的意思）成为Twitter上的一个流行话题。
In France, opposition center-right and far-right parties were, unsurprisingly, critical of Hollande, and while reactions in his own party were more muted, some struck a harsher tone.
在法国，中右翼和极左翼反对党派毫不意外地批评奥朗德。虽然他自己党内的反应较为平静，但也有人发出较为严厉的声音。
“That’s a lot of money for a hairdresser, and for the French in general,” Thierry Mandon, the junior minister for higher education and research, told the LCP channel.
“对理发师来说，这工资很高，从法国的整体工资来看，也挺高的，”高等教育和研究部副部长蒂埃里·曼东(Thierry Mandon)在接受LCP频道采访时说。
It is unclear whether Hollande knew how much the hairdresser, identified as Olivier Benhamou, is paid. On Wednesday evening, Valérie Trierweiler, Hollande’s former companion, wrote on Twitter: “Let’s be fair: F. Hollande was not aware of the hairdresser’s salary. I can attest to his anger when he learned about it later.”
尚不清楚奥朗德之前是否了解他的理发师奥利维耶·贝纳穆(Olivier Benhamou)的工资情况。周三晚上，奥朗德的前伴侣瓦莱丽·特里耶韦莱(Valérie Trierweiler)在Twitter上写道：“我们公正点儿：F·奥朗德之前并不知道这名理发师的薪水。我可以证明，他后来得知此事后非常生气。”
A 2015 report by the Cour des Comptes, the French organization that conducts financial audits of the state and other public institutions, found that personnel spending at the Élysée Palace presidential residence in 2014 — 68.2 million euros, out of the palace’s overall budget of 100 million euros — had fallen by 1.6 percent from the previous year.
负责对国家及其他公共机构进行财务审计的法国审计法院(Cour des Comptes)2015年发布的一项报告发现，2014年总统府爱丽舍宫(Élysée Palace)的人事支出为6820万欧元，比前一年降低了1.6%。爱丽舍宫的总预算为1亿欧元。