PARIS — Hervé Falciani is a professed whistle-blower — the Edward Snowden of banking — who has been hunted by Swiss investigators, jailed by Spaniards and claims to have been kidnapped by Israeli Mossad agents eager for a glimpse of the client data he stole while working for a major financial institution in Geneva.
巴黎——埃尔韦·法尔恰尼(Hervé Falciani)是名职业泄密者，银行界的爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)，瑞士调查者曾到处搜寻他的下落，西班牙人将他逮捕入狱，他还声称自己曾被以色列摩萨德(Mossad)特工绑架，后者迫切地想要一窥法尔恰尼在日内瓦一家大型金融机构工作时窃取的客户数据信息。
“I am weak and alone,” Mr. Falciani said, as three round-the-clock bodyguards provided by the French government looked on with hard stares. The protection was needed, he insisted, because he faces constant risk as the sole key to decipher the encrypted data — five CD-ROMs containing a list of nearly 130,000 account holders that may be the biggest leak ever in the secretive world of Swiss banking.
“我很弱小，孤身一人，”法尔恰尼在说这番话时，法国政府为他配备的三名昼夜守卫的保镖在一旁虎视眈眈地站着。法尔恰尼坚持认为保护是必需的，因为他面临着持续不断的危险：他是破译加密数据的唯一关键，这份数据由五张光盘组成，内含一份涉及将近13万账户持有人的名单，这可能是行事隐秘的瑞士银行界有史以来最大的泄密事件。
But as he settled into a deserted bistro for a two-hour lunch, Mr. Falciani, a former computer technician who has been on the run since 2008, seemed oddly relaxed for a fugitive. And why not?
然而，在他走进一家冷清的小酒馆花上两个小时吃午餐时，这位自2008年以来一直在逃亡的前电脑技术员看上去却十分放松，对于一个在逃者来说，这种放松甚是奇怪。不过为什么不呢？
He is in high demand these days, having cast himself as a crusader against the murky world of Swiss banking and money laundering. Once dismissed by many European authorities, he and other whistle-blowers are now being courted as the region’s governments struggle to fill their coffers and to stem a populist uprising against tax evasion and corruption.
最近一段日子，法尔恰尼特别抢手，他把自己塑造成了一个反抗瑞士银行业及洗钱黑暗势力的战士。法尔恰尼和其他泄密者曾一度遭到许多欧洲政府鄙弃，而现在随着这些政府要努力填充国库，发起一场反逃税和腐败的民粹起义，就竞相追捧起他们来。
“It’s an economic war,” said Mr. Falciani, an angular man of 41 with a dark goatee who sometimes dons disguises, though on a muggy summer afternoon favored an innocuous beige tie and short-sleeved dress shirt. “In Switzerland, the banks are so organized that they are able to circumvent new rules and laws to continue to enable tax evasion.”
“这是一场经济战，”41岁的法尔恰尼说道。法尔恰尼身材瘦削，留着深色山羊胡子，他有时会易装，尽管在这个闷热的夏日午后还是选择了短袖正装衬衫，系了条无伤大雅的米色领带。“在瑞士，银行都在一个组织体系内，因此它们可以避开新的规则和法律，继续纵容逃税的发生。”
Critics, not least at his former employer HSBC, dismiss Mr. Falciani as a manipulator more dazzled by money than high ideals. The data he has leaked — some say sold — since 2008 has wreaked havoc within the banking world, as well as the moneyed and political classes of Europe.
批评者们——他们不仅来自法尔恰尼的前雇主汇丰银行(HSBC)——对法尔恰尼颇为鄙视，认为他是个巧舌如簧的人物，更多地是受金钱的诱惑而非高尚的理想。他自2008年以来泄露的数据——其中一些已被出售——在银行界及欧洲政治人士及富裕阶层中引发了不小的混乱。
Since being released from jail this year after a Spanish judge denied a Swiss extradition request, Mr. Falciani, who is married and has a young daughter, has resurfaced in France. Authorities here have offered protection in exchange for Mr. Falciani giving testimony to local prosecutors who are investigating whether HSBC helped French clients dodge taxes.
自从今年在西班牙法官拒绝瑞士提出的引渡请求后被释放出狱，已婚并育有一女的法尔恰尼在法国重新露面。当地政府向法尔恰尼提供了保护，作为交换，法尔恰尼为正在调查汇丰银行是否帮助该国客户偷税的地方检察官提供了证言。
“My main objective is to help authorities develop a defense,” Mr. Falciani said.
“我主要的目的是帮助监管方建立起防御，”法尔恰尼说。
“We are under attack and losing a lot of tax money,” he said of the Swiss banking system. “If you have enemies who want to invade, laws are not enough and you need armies to build an economic defense.”
“我们正遭受攻击，损失了大量税收收入，”在谈到瑞士银行系统时法尔恰尼这样说到。“如果你面临想要入侵的敌人，法律是不够的，你还需要军队来建立经济防御。”
In a report from the French National Assembly issued in July, the lawmaker Christian Eckert chided authorities for being slow to use Mr. Falciani’s list. According to Mr. Eckert, the information included 127,311 clients, including 6,313 from France who were suspected of tax evasion.
在法国国民议会(National Assembly)7月发布的一份报告中，议员克里斯蒂安·埃克特(Christian Eckert)指责法国当局未能把法尔恰尼的名单迅速利用起来。据埃克特称，相关信息包括127311名客户，其中包括6313名涉嫌逃税的法国人。
HSBC dismisses Mr. Falciani’s information as flawed, insisting the small sample the bank has seen is filled with errors. At the time of his employment, the bank contends it had only 100,000 customers and that the stolen data affected only 15,000 clients.
汇丰认为法尔恰尼的信息有误而不予采信，并坚称它看到的一部分记录里满是错误。汇丰称，在法尔恰尼受雇于该银行时，汇丰有只有10万名客户，而受被盗数据影响的只有1.5万名客户。
“To our knowledge it has always been Falciani’s intention to sell the data,” David Brügger, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail statement. “Only faced with the prospect of extradition and extended time behind bars, Falciani decided to cooperate with the Spanish authorities. A scheme he is now repeating with France and other countries.”
“据我们所知，法尔恰尼一直打算出售那些数据，”汇丰发言人戴维·布吕格尔(David Brügger)在一封电子邮件声明中说，“当初只是因为可能会被引渡并被延长服刑时间，法尔恰尼才决定与西班牙当局合作。现在，他又在同法国和其他国家上演同样的计划。”
That theory is echoed by Georgina Mikhael, a former HSBC computer consultant who worked with Mr. Falciani in Geneva.
这一说法得到了曾在汇丰担任计算机顾问的乔治娜·米哈埃(Georgina Mikhael)的认同，她是法尔恰尼在日内瓦时的同事。
Ms. Mikhael says she helped Mr. Falciani develop a Hong Kong-based company, Palorva, to sell data to other banks, initially believing he obtained the information through what he called “data mining” from the Internet. She said they went to Lebanon in 2008 to sell their services to four banks. She said she grew suspicious when Mr. Falciani insisted on using a false Arabic name, Ruben Al-Chidiack, for their business dealings.
米哈埃说她曾帮助法尔恰尼组建了总部位于香港的公司Palorva，以便向其他银行出售数据，而且她最初相信法尔恰尼是通过他所说的在互联网上“挖掘数据”得到相关信息的。她说，为了把他们的服务卖给四家银行，他们在2008年去了黎巴嫩。她表示，当法尔恰尼坚持要在业务往来中使用鲁本·希迪亚克(Ruben Al-Chidiack)这个假的阿拉伯名字时，她开始起了疑心。
“He never gives something for free,” said Ms. Mikhael, who noted that after the Lebanon effort failed, Mr. Falciani tried to approach German and French intelligence services, usually carrying a knife in his bag because he feared the risks. “Always he is asking. He is not Robin Hood.”
“他从来不会免费给别人东西，”米哈埃说，“他总是索取。他不是罗宾汉。”她指出，黎巴嫩的那次努力失败以后，法尔恰尼试图接洽德国和法国的情报机构，而且因为害怕涉及的危险，他通常会在包里带一把刀。
Ms. Mikhael, who is currently unemployed and lives in her native Lebanon, says that she was Mr. Falciani’s mistress, believing that he planned to divorce his wife. She is now pursuing a defamation lawsuit against him in France, stemming from his contention that he was kidnapped by Mossad secret agents in Geneva who were seeking bank information about people with Hezbollah ties, including her. Ms. Mikhael says she does not have Hezbollah ties and is Christian.
米哈埃目前处于失业状态，生活在自己的祖国黎巴嫩。她说自己当时是法尔恰尼的情人，以为他打算与妻子离婚。如今，她正在法国向法尔恰尼提起诽谤诉讼，起因是法尔恰尼称自己曾被日内瓦的摩萨德秘密特工绑架，那些特工希望得到包括她在内的和真主党(Hezbollah)有关联的人的银行信息。米哈埃说自己是基督徒，和真主党没关系。
Mr. Falciani disputes that he is peddling his information for cash and the claims — pressed by Ms. Mikhael — “are part of moves that people are keen to play” to harm his reputation. “’Never have I or anyone close to me asked or accepted money for information,” he said.
法尔恰尼否认自己是为了钱而兜售自己手上的信息，并称米哈埃强调的那些说法，是那些想损害他的名声的人“喜欢使用的一种手段”。“我以及所有和我关系密切的人从未凭借信息索要或收取过钱财，”他说。
In 2012, Swiss authorities gave Mr. Falciani safe pass to meet in Switzerland to discuss a deal to plead guilty to data theft with a suspended sentence, provided he stopped sharing the information. Mr. Falciani said he strung them along to protect his own safety, waiting for a new government in France that might take his claims more seriously.
2012年，瑞士当局表示，如果法尔恰尼停止分享相关信息，便会向其提供安全通行证，让他到瑞士一起商讨一份协议，只要他承认盗窃数据有罪便可被判缓刑。法尔恰尼说，为了保护自己的安全，他一直在耍弄瑞士人，他在等待法国的新一届政府，新政府或许会更认真对待他的主张。
Now that the political tide has turned, Mr. Falciani wants to continue working with authorities.
如今，既然政治局势发生了变化，法尔恰尼希望继续与当局合作。
As the investigations play out, Mr. Falciani said he was holding down a day job, working for a European Union project as a computer researcher to develop algorithms to detect abnormal behavior. But he worries about his long-term safety, wondering whether he will live another year. He notes that his house has been broken into and that his wife was recently fired from a job at a shoe store because of his notoriety
随着调查的展开，法尔恰尼说找了一份正式工作，担任欧盟一个项目的计算机研发人员，开发用于检测异常行为的算法。但他担心自己的长期安全，想知道自己是否能再活一年。他称有人闯进过他家，而且前不久，他妻子受到自己的坏名声牵连，被一家鞋店解雇了。
“This business represents thousands of billions of euros,” he said. “From my side, I’m frightened.”
“这个行业涉及数以万亿计的欧元，”他说，“对我而言，我是很恐惧的。”