PARIS — A truck plowed into a large crowd watching the annual Bastille Day fireworks on the promenade in Nice on Thursday night, and witnesses reported hearing gunshots.
巴黎——周四晚间，法国南部城市尼斯的滨海步行道举办年度国庆焰火活动，一辆卡车冲进正在观礼的人群，造成严重死伤。目击者表示还听到了枪声。
Christian Estrosi, the deputy mayor of Nice, said that more than 77 people had been killed. “The truck was full of weapons and grenades,” Mr. Estrosi said on French television. It was not clear what motivated the driver to veer into the crowd.
尼斯市副市长克里斯蒂安·埃斯科鲁斯(Christian Estrosi)称至少有77人遇害。他在法国电视上说：“那辆卡车装满了武器和手榴弹。”目前尚不清楚是什么原因让司机驾驶卡车冲向了人群。
Officials asked people to stay indoors.
官方呼吁人们待在室内。
Conflicting accounts of the deaths and injuries emerged from multiple sources after the episode, with many reporting high numbers of casualties.
事件发生后，不同的消息来源传出了不同的死伤数字，很多数字比较高。
The sub-prefect of the Alpes-Maritimes department, Sébastien Humbert, told the French network BFMTV: “There are several dozen dead. The total is very high, thirty dead. Maybe 100 wounded. There was a truck that drove into the crowd, over a very long distance. There were shots. The driver was shot. This is on a big scale.”
滨海阿尔卑斯省副省长塞巴斯蒂安·安贝尔(Sebastien Humbert)在法国BFMTV电视台节目中表示：“有数十人丧生。伤亡总数很高，30人死亡。也许有100人受伤。一辆卡车冲进人群，开了很长一段距离。之后发生了枪战，司机被击毙。这是一次大规模袭击。”
Daphne Burandé, 15, who was at a bar near the beach to watch the fireworks, said: “We were enjoying the celebrations when we suddenly saw people running everywhere and tables being pushed down by the movement of panic.”
15岁的达芙妮·比朗德(Daphne Burandé)当时在海滩附近的一间酒吧里观赏焰火，她说：“我们正在愉快地参加庆祝活动，突然看见到处的人都在跑，一些桌子在恐慌之中被掀翻。”
“No one explained to us what was happening and I heard some gunshots not very far away,” she said. “I waited at the bar for more information because I thought it was a false alert. But then, people were still running.”
“没有人向我们解释发生了什么事，我听到不太远的地方传来一阵枪声，”她说。“我还以为是假警报，就在酒吧里等待进一步的消息。但是之后人群仍然在奔逃。”
France has been on alert for a terrorist attack for months, and officials have warned repeatedly that another attack is likely. Last November, attacks in and around Paris killed 130 people.
数月来，法国一直处在防备恐怖袭击的警戒状态，官方多次警告很可能再次发生袭击。去年11月，在巴黎及其周围发生的恐怖袭击导致130人丧生。
On Twitter, a woman who said her terrace overlooked the promenade where the episode unfolded reported hearing gunfire.
一名女子在Twitter上表示，从她家露台上可以看到事发那条滨海步行道，她称自己听到了枪响。
Several witnesses spoke on iTele, a French television station. A man who gave his name as Michel, working at the Voilier Plage restaurant in front of the Promenade des Anglais, said that around 10:30 pm a large white truck drove into a crowd that had gathered near the beach to watch Bastille Day fireworks, apparently killing dozens of people. “A huge number of people started running, then there was a lot of gunfire,” he said. The police arrived on the scene and engaged in a shootout with the two occupants of the truck.
好几名目击者接受了法国电视台iTele的采访。一名自称为米歇尔(Michel)的男子在位于盎格鲁街前面的Voilier Plage餐厅工作，他表示在晚上大约10点半左右，一辆大型白色卡车开进了聚集在海滩附近观看国庆焰火的人群，看起来杀死了几十人。“大批人开始奔跑，接着出现了许多枪声，”他说。警方到达现场之后，与卡车上的两个人发生了枪战。
Another witness who owns a restaurant nearby, whom iTele did not identify, said that when the truck plowed into the crowd, it “crushed everyone in its path.” Then two men got out of the truck “and started shooting into the crowd, about 50 shots,” the witness said.
另一名iTele没有公布姓名的目击者是附近一家餐馆的老板，此人表示，当卡车冲进人群时，“一路撞向所有人。”接着两名男子跳出卡车，“开始朝人群射击，大约打了50枪，”这名目击者说。
French television showed footage of a panicked crowd running from the scene. On Twitter, witnesses posted grim photos of bodies lying in a pile on the asphalt.
法国电视台播出了惊慌失措的人群从现场跑开的画面。目击者在Twitter上发布了一些悲惨的照片，显示尸体密集地横陈于沥青路面上。
The Prefecture of Police in Nice said that the driver had been neutralized.
尼斯警察局表示，驾驶那辆卡车的司机已伏法。