PARIS — The vast exposition hall in the dilapidated southern French town of Perpignan was standing room only on a recent Saturday, and the crowd was chanting, as if for a sports star: “Marine! Marine! Marine!”
巴黎——前不久的一个周六，颓败的法国南部城市佩皮尼昂的一个宽敞的展厅里满是人。人群仿佛在为某个体育明星加油一样高声喊着：“马琳！马琳！马琳！”
When Marine Le Pen, the charismatic and complicated leader of the National Front, the largest far-right party in France, strode onto the stage, they shouted, cheered and then, with little prompting, soberly began to sing “La Marseillaise,” the French national anthem.
当法国最大的极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)富有魅力且颇为复杂的领导人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)大步走上台时，人群高声喊叫、欢呼起来，然后几乎在没有提示的情况开始严肃地唱起了法国国歌《马赛曲》(La Marseillaise)。
Long prominent as the daughter of the National Front’s founder, Jean-Marie Le Pen, who is widely considered anti-Semitic and xenophobic, Ms. Le Pen now appears to be transforming the party from a fringe player in French politics into a far more central one. She has methodically moderated her party’s image and positioned it to seize on widespread economic insecurity, deep anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim sentiment, and disgust with the political establishment.
马琳的父亲是国民阵线的创始人让-玛丽·勒庞(Jean-Marie Le Pen)，普遍被认为是个反犹和排外人士。现在，一直身为名流的马琳似乎正在将该党从法国政坛的边缘参与者改造成一个更主流的角色。她有条不紊地让该党的形象变得温和，充分利用人们在经济方面普遍存在的不安全感、根深蒂固的反移民和反穆斯林情绪以及对政治权威集团的嫌恶。
“We have five million unemployed people — why do we allow in more immigrants?” Ms. Le Pen said during a recent interview in her office.
“我们已经有500万人失业了，为什么还允许更多移民进入法国？”马琳前不久在自己的办公室接受采访时说。
As much as anyone, Ms. Le Pen, 45, embodies a strain of conservative populism that has been gathering force across Europe for the past five years. That populism now has its best chance yet to rebalance the ideological debate in a number of countries and challenge the European Union’s decades-long push for deeper integration.
和其他所有人一样，45岁的马琳是过去五年里保守民粹主义在整个欧洲积聚力量的一个体现。现在正是这种民粹主义在多个国家重塑意识形态之争，挑战欧盟数十年来推动更深层次融合的绝佳良机。
In mayoral elections on Sunday, the National Front won in 11 cities and towns, and National Front-leaning candidates triumphed in three more. The showing was sufficiently strong to shake the traditional parties of the left and right, and raised expectations — or fears — that the National Front, along with far-right counterparts in countries including Britain, the Netherlands and Italy, could post strong gains in elections for the European Parliament in May.
在周日的市镇选举中，国民阵线在11个市镇获胜，亲国民阵线的候选人在另外三个地方胜出。这种强劲表现足以震撼传统的左翼和右翼政党，促使人们期望——或是担心——国民阵线，以及英国、荷兰和意大利等国的极右翼政党会在5月的欧洲议会选举中大有斩获。
To a country struggling with unrelentingly high unemployment, intensifying global competition and questions about what it means to be French, Ms. Le Pen’s message is nationalistic, anti-elitist, anti-European Union, protectionist and unabashedly anti-immigration.
法国正在努力应对居高不下的失业率、日渐加剧的全球竞争以及什么人算是法国人的问题。对这样一个国家而言，马琳传达的是一种民粹主义、反精英、反欧盟、地方保护主义和光明正大地反移民等讯息。
“We are free to welcome, or not welcome, those who want to come,” she told the applauding crowd in Perpignan, which almost to a person appeared to be white.
“对那些想来法国的人，我们有欢迎或不欢迎的自由，”她在佩皮尼昂对不断鼓掌的人群说。看上去人群几乎全是白人。
She and her staff describe the National Front now as “a party of patriots.” But unlike the Tea Party movement in the United States, her philosophy is not anti-government; it favors instead a government that supports what she and her followers view as a traditional French way of life for the people they consider the true French.
她和她的工作人员称，国民阵线现在是“一个爱国者的政党”。但不同于美国的茶党(Tea Party)运动，她的哲学不是反政府。相反，她支持政府，只要政府支持她和她的支持者的看法——在他们认为的真正的法国人心目中，传统的法式生活是怎样的。
“We want to assert our right to national priority,” Ms. Le Pen said at the rally. “People want to live like French people in France, not like Saudis or Qataris.”
“我们希望明确我们有权来决定国家目标的轻重缓急，”马琳在集会上说，“人们希望在法国活得像个法国人，而不是沙特阿拉伯人或卡塔尔人。”
As for the European Union, she scoffs at it as “the Soviet Union of Europe.”
至于欧盟，她嘲笑那是“欧洲的苏联”。
Ms. Le Pen remains shadowed to some degree by her father’s embrace of anti-Semitic themes. He once described the Nazi gas chambers as a “detail in the history” of World War II.
在一定程度上，马琳依然处在她父亲采用反犹为主题的阴影下。她父亲一度称纳粹的毒气室是二战“历史的细节”。
But since taking over the party in 2011, she has pursued a plan to expand the party’s base, election cycle by election cycle, by emphasizing economic themes, trying to recruit more credible candidates and focusing on local elections and winning greater representation in the European Parliament.
但自2011年接手该政党以来，她一直在推行一个计划，通过强调经济议题、尝试招募更多可靠的候选人、侧重地方选举、在欧洲议会中赢得更多席位，一个选举周期一个选举周期地扩大该党的选民基础。
It is unclear whether the party’s recent gains will last beyond this particular moment in French politics, when Mr. Hollande’s Socialist Party and its main rival, the U.M.P., are especially weak.
目前正值奥朗德(Hollande)领导的社会党(Socialist Party)及其劲敌人民运动联盟(UMP)极度虚弱，尚不清楚在法国政界的这种特殊时刻过后，该党能否延续这种成长的势头。
The National Front’s appeal starts with Ms. Le Pen’s informal, straight-talking manner, which reduces complex economic problems to a few deft phrases, invokes the glories of a France that now seems to be slipping away and promises that generous government benefits need not be cut, except for immigrants she considers undeserving.
国民阵线的魅力始于马琳自己轻松友好、心直口快的风格。这种风格把复杂的经济问题简化成了几个巧妙的短语，唤起了现在似乎正在衰落的法国的荣耀，同时承诺慷慨大方的政府福利没有削减的必要，除非相关福利是面向她认为不值得享有福利的移民的。
She has a commanding presence softened somewhat by her husky voice — she was a smoker for years and now uses an electronic cigarette — and seems to invite challenging questions. Her answers may not go deep, but unlike many politicians, there is no fudge language. She takes as inspiration Joan of Arc, who helped to liberate France from English domination.
她的举止有些居高临下，但她那沙哑的声音——她吸烟多年，现在吸电子烟——让她的姿态变得柔和了，似乎乐于接受挑战性问题。她的答案可能不会很深刻，但不同许多政客，她不会含糊其辞。她把帮助法国摆脱英格兰统治的圣女贞德(Joan of Arc)作为自己的偶像。
If the European Parliament elections in May turn out as she predicts, she will seek to form a far-right bloc with like-minded deputies from elsewhere in Europe.
如果5月欧洲议会选举的结果和她预料的一样，她将尝试与来自欧洲其他国家志同道合的代表组成一个极右翼集团。
Some analysts say they doubt that the National Front’s appeal will continue to grow once the economy recovers.
一些分析人士表示，他们怀疑一旦经济复苏，国民阵线的声望便不会继续扩大。
“These periods have always been great for extremes,” said Pascal Lamy, who recently stepped down as head of the World Trade Organization and spent years at the European Commission. He noted that there had been a strong right-wing movement in France for the past century.
“这种时期总是有利于极端思想，”前不久离任世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)总干事一职的帕斯卡尔·拉米(Pascal Lamy)说。曾在欧盟委员会(European Commission)任职多年的他指出，过去一个世纪，法国出现了一场强大的右翼运动。
But Ms. Le Pen does not fit into neat boxes. Along with wanting to sharply limit immigration and to withdraw from the common euro currency, she supports gay rights, though she does not back same-sex marriage. Twice divorced and now in a relationship with Louis Aliot, who ran unsuccessfully as a National Front candidate for mayor of Perpignan, she is a far cry from the image of a social conservative leader in the United States.
但马琳是无法简单归类的。希望大幅限制移民并退出共同货币欧元的同时，她支持同性恋者的权利，不过不赞成同性婚姻。马琳离过两次婚，现任男友是以国民阵线候选人身份竞选佩皮尼昂市长但未能成功的路易·阿利奥(Louis Aliot)，她的形象和美国的社会保守派领导人相去甚远。
Many analysts say Ms. Le Pen appears generally determined to move the party away from the anti-Semitic and racist identity of its past. Last fall she expelled from the party a National Front candidate who posted on her Facebook page a photo of the justice minister, Christiane Taubira, who is black, alongside a chimpanzee, with language suggesting they were one and the same.
许多分析人士称，马琳总体上看似乎下定决心要让该党摆脱反犹太人和种族主义的过去。去年秋天，她将国民阵线的一名候选人逐出了党，因为那名候选人在她的Facebook页面上放了一张黑人司法部长克里斯蒂亚娜·陶比拉(Christiane Taubira)和一只黑猩猩在一起的照片，还配上文字称两者是一体的，一样的。
At the same time, Ms. Le Pen cannot stop, and perhaps does not want to stop, people with more racist ideas from supporting her.
与此同时，马琳无法、或许也不愿阻止观点更激进的人支持她。
Jean-Yves Camus, director of the Observatory of Radical Politics at the Jean Jaurès Foundation, said that even if Ms. Le Pen did not succeed in becoming president, she was pushing the entire political discussion to the right, legitimizing her ideas in France and elsewhere in Europe.
让·若海斯基金会激进政治观察中心(Observatory of Radical Politics at the Jean Jaurès Foundation)主任让-伊夫·加缪(Jean-Yves Camus)表示，即使马琳不能成功地当上总统，她也正在推动整个政治讨论向右翼方向发展，让她自己的观点在法国和欧洲其他地方正当化。
“The big mistake of the French right is that each time the National Front wins votes, the right adopts the National Front’s themes,” Mr. Camus said.
“法国右翼的一个大错误是，每当国民阵线赢得选票时，右翼就会采纳国民阵线的竞选议题，”加缪说。