PARIS — In France’s most consequential election in recent history, voters on Sunday endorsed Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen — one a political novice, the other a far-right firebrand — both outsiders but with starkly different visions for the country, early returns and projections indicated.
巴黎——早期投票结果和预测显示，在周日举行的法国近些年最重要的选举中，埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)和马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)得到了选民的支持。这两人一个是政治新手，一个是极右翼狂热分子。两位都是局外人，但对法国的憧憬却截然不同。
The result was a full-throated rebuke of France’s traditional mainstream parties, setting the country on an uncertain path at a critical moment when France’s election could also decide the future of the European Union. The two candidates appeared to be headed to a runoff on May 7.
对法国的传统主流政党来说，这是一记响亮的耳光。在法国的选举可能也决定着欧盟未来的关键时刻，这个结果让法国走上了一条前途未卜的道路。两名候选人似乎都将进入5月7日的决胜选举。
Mr. Macron, a former investment banker, abandoned traditional parties a year ago to form his own movement with an eclectic blend of left and right views. He campaigned on a pro-European Union platform, coupled with calls to overhaul the rules governing the French economy.
一年前，曾经的投资银行家马克龙放弃传统政党，成立了自己的政党。该政党兼容并蓄，结合了左翼和右翼观点。他的竞选纲领支持欧盟，并呼吁改革法国经济的管理规章制度。
“The French people have decided to put me ahead of the first round of the vote,” Mr. Macron told jubilant supporters at a rally in Paris. “I’m aware of the honor and the responsibility that rest on my shoulders.”
“法国人民决定让我在第一轮投票中领先，”马克龙在巴黎的一场集会上对欢欣鼓舞的支持者说。“我清楚自己肩上的荣誉和责任。”
Ms. Le Pen’s success is a victory for skeptics who oppose the European Union and for those who want to see more “France first” policies to restrict signs of Muslim faith in public, like the wearing of head scarves.
勒庞的成功对反对欧盟，以及希望看到更多的“法国优先”政策，以限制公共场合的穆斯林信仰标志，如戴头巾的人来说，是一个胜利。
“The great debate will finally take place,” Ms. Le Pen said on Twitter. “French citizens need to seize this historic opportunity.”
“大辩论最终会上演，”勒庞在Twitter上说。“法国公民要抓住这个历史机遇。”
Ms. Le Pen spoke later to supporters in the small town of Hénin-Beaumont in northern France, and although the final results were unclear, she could claim a victory of sorts. Not only will she be in the runoff for the first time, but she also got a higher percentage of votes than she did in 2012, and a higher percentage than her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, did in 2002, when he made it to the second round as the candidate for the far-right National Front.
随后，勒庞在法国北部小镇埃南博蒙(Hénin-Beaumont)对支持者发表了演讲。尽管最终结果尚不得而知，但她也算取得了胜利。她不仅将首次进入决胜选举，得票率也比她自己在2012年的选举和她父亲让-玛丽·勒庞(Jean-Marie Le Pen)在2002年的选举要高。2002年，让-玛丽·勒庞以极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)候选人的身份进入第二轮投票。
She said the outcome was “an act of French pride, that of a people who are raising up their heads, that of a people sure of their values and confident of the future.”
她说，这个结果是“法国骄傲的表现，是一个民族抬起头，对自己的价值观和未来有信心的表现”。
Few analysts give her much of a chance of winning in the second round, however. Even before official results were announced, the political establishment was rallying behind Mr. Macron, warning of the dangers of a victory by Ms. Le Pen’s National Front.
然而，认为她在第二轮中有很大获胜机会的分析人士很少。哪怕是在正式结果公布前，政治建制派还在团结一致地支持马克龙，警告民众注意勒庞的国民阵线获胜会带来的危险。
Bernard Cazeneuve, the sitting Socialist prime minister, called Ms. Le Pen’s project “dangerous and sectarian” and said it would “impoverish, isolate and divide” the country.
来自社会党的现任总理贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)称勒庞的方案“危险且具有派系特征”，并表示它会导致法国陷入“贫穷、孤立和分裂”。
“It will inevitably lead to the end of Europe and of the euro, and, eventually, to France’s relegation,” he said. “The National Front cannot be the future of our country.”
“它必然会造成欧洲和欧元的终结，最终导致法国地位下降，”他说。“国民阵线不能成为我国的未来。”
For now, voters narrowly embraced Mr. Macron’s centrist calls for change over more strident appeals from the far left and the far right for France to fortify itself against immigration and globalization.
在选民中，马克龙要求改革的中间派呼声，暂时以微弱的优势领先于极左翼和极右翼更强硬的呼吁。极左翼和极右翼要求法国对移民和全球化持更强硬立场。
His success also suggests that despite multiple terrorist attacks in France recently, a message of outreach to immigrants and an acceptance of Muslims as well as of ethnic diversity has some currency. Ms. Le Pen campaigned stridently against Muslim immigration, linking it to security threats, and she may have benefited from a final surge of support after a terrorist attack in Paris on Thursday.
马克龙的成功也表明，尽管法国最近发生多起恐怖袭击，但接纳移民和接受穆斯林及族群多样性的观点依然有一定的市场。勒庞在竞选期间大力反对穆斯林移民，把它和安全威胁联系在了一起。巴黎周四发生的恐怖袭击可能对她有利。袭击发生后，她的支持率出现激增。
In his address to supporters as the returns were still being tabulated, Mr. Macron emphasized that he wanted to be the president of all of France. But the results showed that the country remains deeply divided.
随着投票结果仍在公布过程中，马克龙对支持者发表演说，强调他希望成为法国的总统。但相关结果显示，该国依然存在严重的分歧。
Four candidates with markedly different views came within a few points of one another in the vote on Sunday, suggesting that the fight about what vision of France will dominate the future is far from over.
在周日的投票中，四名观点截然不同的候选人彼此之间的差距都在几个百分点之间。这表明，有关法国的未来将由哪一种愿景主宰的斗争远没有结束。
The far-left candidate, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, refused to accept early projections that indicated his defeat.
极左翼候选人让-吕克·梅朗雄(Jean-Luc Mélenchon)拒绝接受显示他已失败的早期预测。
But the mainstream right candidate, François Fillon, conceded, saying that he had failed to “convince” the French. “The obstacles put on my path were too numerous, too cruel,” he said, obliquely referring to embezzlement scandals that swirled around his campaign.
但主流右翼候选人弗朗索瓦·菲永(François Fillon)则承认了失败，称自己未能“说服”法国民众。“我一路上遇到的障碍太多，太残忍，”他说，间接指围绕他的竞选出现的多起挪用公款丑闻。