After months of heated negotiations, state and federal authorities on Monday announced a criminal case against BNP Paribas, taking aim at France’s biggest bank for transferring billions of dollars on behalf of Sudan and other countries blacklisted by the United States.
本周一，美国联邦与州级政府部门在长达数月的激烈谈判后，宣布对法国巴黎银行（BNP Paribas，简称BNP）提出刑事诉讼，他们指控这家法国最大的银行为苏丹和其他被美国列入黑名单的国家转移了数十亿美元的资金。
BNP agreed to plead guilty to criminal charges and pay an $8.9 billion penalty, a record sum for a bank accused of doing business with countries that face United States sanctions. State and federal authorities portrayed BNP, the seventh bank to settle a criminal sanctions violation case but the first to plead guilty, as the worst offender.
BNP同意认罪及接受89亿美元（约合552亿元人民币）的罚款，这一金额创下了被控和受美国制裁的国家做生意的银行的罚款新纪录。联邦及州级政府部门把BNP描绘为最恶劣的违法者，它是第七家与控方就违反制裁规定的刑事案达成和解的银行，不过也是七起案件中首家认罪的银行。
Like other banks, BNP hid the names of Sudanese and Iranian clients when sending transactions through its New York operations and the broader American financial system. But the wrongdoing was more pervasive at BNP, the authorities found, stretching from at least 2002 into 2012, by which time the investigation was already in full swing.
和其他银行一样，BNP在通过纽约分行和更广泛的美国金融系统处理交易时，刻意隐瞒了苏丹及伊朗客户的姓名。不过，检方发现，这种违法行为在BNP更为普遍，类似行为至少在2002年就已出现，而后一直持续到2012年，截至当时，当局针对BNP的调查已经全面展开。
“This conspiracy was known and condoned at the highest levels of BNP,” Edward Starishevsky, an assistant district attorney in Manhattan, said in court on Monday when the bank pleaded guilty to one count of falsifying business records and one count of conspiracy.
本周一，曼哈顿的助理地区检察官爱德华·斯塔里舍夫斯基(Edward Starishevsky)在法庭上表示，“BNP的最高层对这些阴谋心知肚明，却姑息养奸。”在庭上，BNP承认了针对它的一项伪造商业纪录指控和另一项阴谋指控。
The rebuke — from the Justice Department’s criminal division in Washington, the United States attorney’s office and district attorney’s office in Manhattan, as well as the Federal Reserve, Treasury Department and New York’s financial regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky — provides a template for prosecuting other financial misdeeds. In the coming months, the focus will shift to a number of big banks suspected of manipulating foreign currencies.
由华盛顿的美国司法部刑事部门、美国联邦检察官办公室和曼哈顿区检察官办公室、以及美联储(Federal Reserve)、财政部和纽约市金融监管局局长本杰明·M·劳斯基(Benjamin M. Lawsky)联手实施的惩处，给起诉其他金融不法行为提供了一个样板。在接下来的几个月里，当局的关注焦点将转移到被怀疑操控外币的多家大型银行身上。
In the BNP case, the authorities sought to send a message that no bank is immune from criminal charges, despite lingering concerns that financial institutions have grown so large and interconnected that they are “too big to jail.” The decision to require BNP’s parent company to plead guilty, coming six weeks after Credit Suisse pleaded guilty to helping American clients evade taxes, reflects a broader policy shift after decades of civil settlements and so-called deferred prosecution agreements.
在BNP一案中，当局力图传递一条讯息，即没有哪家银行能免于刑事诉讼，哪怕人们依然心存疑虑地认为，金融机构已变得太大，相互联系太过紧密，以至于会出现“刑不上巨型银行”的结果。要求BNP的母公司认罪的决定反映出，更广泛的司法政策在历经数十年的民事和解和所谓的暂缓起诉协议后，已经发生转变。就在6周前，瑞信(Credit Suisse)承认了其协助美国客户逃税的罪行。
“This outcome should send a strong message to any institution — any institution anywhere in the world — that does business in the United States: that illegal conduct will simply not be tolerated,” United States Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said at a news conference on Monday.
美国司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)在周一的新闻发布会上表示，“这次的结果应该能给所有在美国经营业务的金融机构——不管它们来自何方，是什么机构——传递一条强烈的讯息，那就是我们绝不会容忍任何不法行为。”
Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan who accused BNP of “perpetrating what was truly a tour de fraud,” has argued that no bank is too big to charge.
驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)曾提出，没有哪家银行会因为规模过大而不被起诉。他指控BNP“实施了一个胆大包天的欺诈案”。
Still, criminal pleas could prompt regulators to revoke the license of a bank, the Wall Street equivalent of the death penalty. To prevent that outcome, prosecutors and regulators coordinated their actions months in advance.
不过，刑事认罪可能会导致监管机构吊销银行的执照，在华尔街来说，这相当于是被判了死刑。为了防止出现这种结果，检察官和监管机构事前数月开始联手协作。
Unlike Credit Suisse, which paid fines but faced few practical implications from pleading guilty, BNP was required to temporarily forfeit a core business operation in New York.
不同于支付了罚款、但认罪带来的实际影响却微乎其微的瑞信，BNP被要求暂时放弃在纽约的一项核心业务。
Mr. Lawsky announced on Monday that he would suspend its ability to process payments in dollar denominations, a function known as dollar clearing, which is essential to doing business with international clients. The deal with BNP will prevent certain units within the bank’s headquarters in Paris, as well as its offices in Geneva, Rome, Milan and Singapore, from clearing dollar transactions for one year beginning in January 2015.
劳斯基本周一宣布，他将暂时拿走BNP的美元处理能力，即与国际客户做生意必不可少的美元结算业务。根据BNP达成的交易，该银行巴黎总部以及其日内瓦、罗马、米兰和新加坡分支的某些部门从2015年1月开始，一年内不能对美元交易进行结算。
Mr. Lawsky also required the bank to part ways with 13 employees, including one of its chief operating officers. “It is important to remember that banks do not commit misconduct — bankers do,” he said in a statement.
劳斯基还要求银行开除13名员工，其中包括一名首席运营官。“重要的是要记住，做出不当行为的不是银行——而是银行里的人，”他在一份声明中说。
Still, not one BNP employee was criminally charged. And prosecutors have yet to demonstrate that their newfound enforcement muscle applies equally to American banks.
尽管如此，没有任何BNP员工遭到刑事起诉。检察官也还没有证明，他们新近拥有的执法能力同样适用于美国银行。
“Though we appreciate the magnitude of the BNP guilty plea, we believe this does not signify the end of ‘too big to jail,’ ” Public Citizen, a nonprofit watchdog group, said in a statement.
“虽然我们明白这个BNP认罪协议的分量，但我们认为，这并不意味着'刑不上巨型银行’现象的终结，“非营利监督组织公众公民(Public Citizen)在一份声明中说。
In its own statement, BNP emphasized that it had “designed new robust compliance” measures to prevent a repeat of the wrongdoing. “We deeply regret the past misconduct that led to this settlement,” said the bank’s chief executive, Jean-Laurent Bonnafé.
BNP在自己的声明中强调，它已经“设计了新的、强大的合规”措施，以防止不当行为的重演。“我们对过去那些导致这种状况的不当行为深感遗憾​，”该银行首席执行官让-洛朗·博纳费(Jean-Laurent Bonnafé)说。
BNP had initially hoped to fend off a guilty plea. It had proposed creating an entirely new subsidiary to plead guilty, according to people briefed on the matter.
BNP最初希望避免承认控罪。内情人士称，它曾建议创建一个全新的子公司来认罪。
When prosecutors rebuffed that idea, the bank enlisted help in the highest rungs of French government. President François Hollande made unusually direct and personal appeals to President Obama, while French financial officials questioned Mr. Lawsky about the dollar-clearing suspension.
检察官拒绝了这一提议后，BNP向法国政府的最高级别官员寻求帮助。奥朗德总统异乎寻常地直接以个人名义向奥巴马总统求情，而法国财政官员则对劳斯基暂停BNP美元结算业务的决定提出质疑。
Ultimately, Mr. Lawsky focused the suspension on the specific units that processed transactions at the heart of the case, a move that will most likely generate a logistical headache for the bank and undercut its revenue as it has to outsource the business to another bank. The bank’s oil and gas units in Paris and elsewhere, for example, are subject to the suspension.
最终，劳斯基决定只暂停那些经手该案核心交易的具体部门的美元结算业务。此举极有可能给BNP带来后勤方面的麻烦，并令BNP的营收缩水，因为它不得不把业务外包给另一家银行。比如，该银行在巴黎等地的石油和天然气部门，就会受到暂停处理的影响。
Some units tried to cover up the transactions, the authorities said. In the bank’s Geneva office, “there was policy to strip, amend and omit” information identifying Sudanese clients.
BNP的一些部门还曾试图掩盖交易，当局说。其日内瓦办公室就有政策，对可以表明客户来自苏丹的信息“进行剥离、修改，及省略”。
At the time, Sudan was operating a genocidal regime. And as Mr. Holder noted, citing the words of a BNP compliance manager, the country “hosted Osama bin Laden.”
当时，苏丹被开展种族灭绝活动的政权所控制。正如霍尔德援引BNP合规经理的话所指出的，苏丹“款待了本·拉登”。
Some BNP employees sounded the alarms. But at a September 2005 meeting, one of the bank’s chief operating officers “dismissed the concerns of the compliance officials,” Mr. Lawsky said, and requested that no minutes of the meeting be taken.
BNP的一些员工敲响了警钟。但在2005年9月的一次会议上，该银行的一名首席运营官“驳回了合规官员的担心，”并要求不做会议记录，劳斯基说。
The bank’s compliance staff in New York also failed to thwart the wrongdoing, the authorities said. When another bank settled a sanctions violations case, BNP’s head of ethics for North America wrote in an email to a colleague, “The dirty little secret isn’t so secret anymore, oui?”
该银行在纽约负责合规问题的人员也未能阻止不法行为，当局说。当另一家银行的某桩制裁违规案以和解告终时，BNP在北美的道德部门负责人在发给同事的电邮中写道，“肮脏的小秘密也不再那么秘密了，是吧？”