I haven’t paid much attention to François Hollande, the president of France, since it became clear that he wasn’t going to break with Europe’s destructive, austerity-minded policy orthodoxy. But now he has done something truly scandalous.
我一直没太注意法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)，自从明确了他不会偏离欧洲破坏性的、紧缩思维政策的正统观念之后。但是他现在却做了一件着实让人震惊的事。
I am not, of course, talking about his alleged affair with an actress, which, even if true, is neither surprising (hey, it’s France) nor disturbing. No, what’s shocking is his embrace of discredited right-wing economic doctrines. It’s a reminder that Europe’s ongoing economic woes can’t be attributed solely to the bad ideas of the right. Yes, callous, wrongheaded conservatives have been driving policy, but they have been abetted and enabled by spineless, muddleheaded politicians on the moderate left.
我说的当然不是他和一个女演员之间的所谓外遇，即便那是真的，也既不令人吃惊（法国人嘛），也不会让人不安。不是那事，令人震惊的是他居然信奉名声扫地的右翼经济学教义。这提醒我们，欧洲持续的经济困难并不能仅仅归咎于右派的糟糕主意。不错，那些冷酷无情、执迷不悟的保守派一直在主导着政策，但他们也一直受到那些没有脊梁骨、糊里糊涂的中偏左政客的怂恿和支持。
Right now, Europe seems to be emerging from its double-dip recession and growing a bit. But this slight uptick follows years of disastrous performance. How disastrous? Consider: By 1936, seven years into the Great Depression, much of Europe was growing rapidly, with real G.D.P. per capita steadily reaching new highs. By contrast, European real G.D.P. per capita today is still well below its 2007 peak — and rising slowly at best.
目前，欧洲似乎在从其两次探底的经济衰退中复苏，出现了一点增长。但是，这小小的一点起色是在经历了好几年的经济灾难性表现后才出现的。怎么样个灾难法？回想一下就知道了：到1936年，也就是大萧条的第七年，欧洲大部分地区都已在快速增长，人均实际GDP不断达到新高。相比之下，如今欧洲的人均实际GDP依然远低于2007年的峰值，充其量也只是在缓慢增长。
Doing worse than you did in the Great Depression is, one might say, a remarkable achievement. How did the Europeans pull it off? Well, in the 1930s most European countries eventually abandoned economic orthodoxy: They went off the gold standard; they stopped trying to balance their budgets; and some of them began large military buildups that had the side effect of providing economic stimulus. The result was a strong recovery from 1933 onward.
也许有人会说，比大萧条时期表现得还差真是个非凡的成就。欧洲人是怎么做到的呢？这么说吧，20世纪30年代，大部分欧洲国家最终都抛弃了正统经济教条：他们放弃了黄金标准；他们不再试图平衡政府预算；有些国家还开始大量增加军备，这种做法的一个副作用是提供经济刺激。结果是1933年开始出现的强劲复苏。
Modern Europe is a much better place, morally, politically, and in human terms. A shared commitment to democracy has brought durable peace; social safety nets have limited the suffering from high unemployment; coordinated action has contained the threat of financial collapse. Unfortunately, the Continent’s success in avoiding disaster has had the side effect of letting governments cling to orthodox policies. Nobody has left the euro, even though it’s a monetary straitjacket. With no need to boost military spending, nobody has broken with fiscal austerity. Everyone is doing the safe, supposedly responsible thing — and the slump persists.
就道德、政治和人类的角度而言，现代的欧洲比那时的好多了。对民主的共同承诺给欧洲带来了长期的和平；社会保障体系减轻了高失业率带来的痛苦；协调行动遏制了金融崩溃的威胁。不幸的是，欧洲避免灾难的成功却带来了一个副作用：那就是导致政府抱住正统教条不放。尽管欧元是一种货币桎梏，但没有一个国家放弃它。没有了增加军费开支的需求，因此也没有一个国家解除财政紧缩。每个政府都在做着安全、据说是负责的事，衰退也就一直在持续。
In this depressed and depressing landscape, France isn’t an especially bad performer. Obviously it has lagged behind Germany, which has been buoyed by its formidable export sector. But French performance has been better than that of most other European nations. And I’m not just talking about the debt-crisis countries. French growth has outpaced that of such pillars of orthodoxy as Finland and the Netherlands.
在这种衰退和令人沮丧的环境中，法国并不是表现特别糟糕的国家。显然，它落后于德国，后者一直由其强大的出口业支撑着。但法国的表现却比其他大多数欧洲国家都好，我说的不只是那些处在债务危机中的国家。法国的增长已经超过像芬兰和荷兰这些严守正统理论的国家。
It’s true that the latest data show France failing to share in Europe’s general uptick. Most observers, including the International Monetary Fund, attribute this recent weakness largely to austerity policies. But now Mr. Hollande has spoken up about his plans to change France’s course — and it’s hard not to feel a sense of despair.
没错，最近的数据显示，法国在欧洲整体出现起色时表现不佳。大部分观察者，包括国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)在内，都把最近的脆弱表现在很大程度上归咎于紧缩政策。但是，现在奥朗德开始大谈他要改变法国未来方向的计划，这却未免让人感到绝望。
For Mr. Hollande, in announcing his intention to reduce taxes on businesses while cutting (unspecified) spending to offset the cost, declared, “It is upon supply that we need to act,” and he further declared that “supply actually creates demand.”
奥朗德在宣布打算要对企业减税，同时削减（不具体的）开支来平衡税收的减少时说，“我们需要解决的是供给问题，”他进一步说，“实际上，供给创造需求。”
Oh, boy. That echoes, almost verbatim, the long-debunked fallacy known as Say’s Law — the claim that overall shortfalls in demand can’t happen, because people have to spend their income on something. This just isn’t true, and it’s very much not true as a practical matter at the beginning of 2014. All the evidence says that France is awash in productive resources, both labor and capital, that are sitting idle because demand is inadequate. For proof, one need only look at inflation, which is sliding fast. Indeed, both France and Europe as a whole are getting dangerously close to Japan-style deflation.
天哪。这几乎与早就被证明是错的萨伊法则(Say's Law)一字不差，该法则声称不可能出现整体的需求短缺，因为人们必须将收入花在某些东西上。这其实是不对的，从2014年初的现实问题来看，更是错上加错。所有证据都表明，法国的制造资源过剩，无论是劳动力还是资本，都因为需求不足而无用武之地。要证明吗？只需看看通货膨胀率，它在快速下滑。的确，在法国乃至整个欧洲出现日本式的通货紧缩的危险越来越大。
So what’s the significance of the fact that, at this of all times, Mr. Hollande has adopted this discredited doctrine?
不是在别的时候，而是在这种关头，奥朗德采用那个名声扫地的教条，有什么意义呢？
As I said, it’s a sign of the haplessness of the European center-left. For four years, Europe has been in the grip of austerity fever, with mostly disastrous results; it’s telling that the current slight upturn is being hailed as if it were a policy triumph. Given the hardship these policies have inflicted, you might have expected left-of-center politicians to argue strenuously for a change in course. Yet everywhere in Europe, the center-left has at best (for example, in Britain) offered weak, halfhearted criticism, and often simply cringed in submission.
正如我说过的，这是欧洲的中偏左派无能为力的迹象。四年来，欧洲一直发着紧缩烧，其结果大多是灾难性的；目前的一点起色被当作好象是政策的成功而庆祝，就说明了这个问题。考虑到这些政策给人们带来的苦难，你可能会指望中偏左的政治家极力主张改弦易张。然而，在欧洲所有的地方，中偏左派充其量（比如在英国）只对那些政策提出了软弱无力的批评，而通常则是简单地畏缩屈从。
When Mr. Hollande became leader of the second-ranked euro economy, some of us hoped that he might take a stand. Instead, he fell into the usual cringe — a cringe that has now turned into intellectual collapse. And Europe’s second depression goes on and on.
当奥朗德成为欧元区第二大经济体的领导人时，我们当中有些人曾希望他也许会采取不同的立场。然而，他却陷入了通常的畏缩，这种畏缩现在已经变成了智力崩溃。欧洲的第二次萧条将继续下去。