PARIS — Prime Minister Manuel Valls declared Saturday that France was at war with radical Islam after the harrowing sieges that led to the deaths of three gunmen and four hostages the day before. New details emerged about the bloody final confrontations, and security forces remained on high alert.
巴黎——法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)周六称，法国正处于与极端伊斯兰主义的战争之中。此前一天，激烈的围捕行动导致三名持械歹徒和四名人质死亡。有关这场血腥的最后对决的新细节渐次出现，安全部队保持着高度戒备状态。
“It is a war against terrorism, against jihadism, against radical Islam, against everything that is aimed at breaking fraternity, freedom, solidarity,” Mr. Valls said during a speech in Évry, south of Paris.
“这场战争针对的是恐怖主义，圣战主义，极端伊斯兰主义，以及一切旨在破坏博爱、自由和团结的势力，”瓦尔斯在巴黎南部的埃夫里发表演讲时说。
The authorities started the day hunting for the companion of one of the killers, only to learn later that she appeared to have fled to Turkey and then probably to Syria days before the first assault in Paris on Wednesday. The police had suspected that the woman — Hayat Boumeddiene, 26, the girlfriend of Amedy Coulibaly, believed to be one of the gunmen — might have played a role in one or more of the attacks.
当天早上，当局首先对其中一名袭击者的同伴展开了追捕，但晚些时候得知，在周三巴黎发生第一场袭击的几天前，她似乎就已经逃到了土耳其，并且很可能后来逃往了叙利亚。警方怀疑，这名女子——哈亚特·布梅迪安(Hayat Boumeddiene)，26岁，据信是其中一名持械歹徒艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)的女友——可能在这些天来的一场或多场袭击中扮演了角色。
“We are 99 percent sure that she traveled to Syria from Urfa,” said a Turkish intelligence official, referring to a city in southern Turkey. “There is no evidence that suggests she was involved in the terrorist attacks in France this week.”
“我们几乎可以肯定，她从乌尔法(Urfa)去了叙利亚，”土耳其的一名情报官员说。乌尔法是位于土耳其南部的一座城市。“没有证据显示她参与了本周在法国发生的恐怖袭击。”
France remained on edge a day after security forces killed Mr. Coulibaly, who the police said was responsible for the deaths of four hostages at a kosher supermarket near the Porte de Vincennes in eastern Paris on Friday, and Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, the brothers who fatally shot 12 people on Wednesday in and around the offices of Charlie Hebdo, a satirical newspaper.
法国仍然处于不安之中。此前一天，安全部队击毙了古里巴利以及赛义德(Saïd)和谢里夫·库瓦奇(Chérif Kouachi)兄弟。警方称，古里巴利要为周五巴黎东部文森港一家犹太洁食超市四名人质死亡的事件责任。库瓦奇兄弟则是周三在讽刺刊物《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的办公室内部及周边地区枪杀了12人。
The French government said it would put 500 additional troops on the streets over the weekend amid preparations for a giant unity rally in Paris on Sunday. A number of European officials said they would attend, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu of Turkey, the most prominent Muslim leader scheduled to be there.
法国政府称，周末期间将在街头增派500名武装人员，为周日在巴黎举行的大型集会做准备。多名欧洲政要表示将参加此次活动，其中包括德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)、英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)，以及土耳其总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢(Ahmet Davutoglu)。后者是计划出席此次活动的最重要的穆斯林世界领导人。
Other foreign officials who have said they would be at the rally include Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel.
已经表示将参与活动的外国官员还有巴勒斯坦民族权力机构主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)，以及以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)。
On Saturday, hundreds of thousands of people marched in Paris, Toulouse, Nice and other cities in a show of solidarity, and rallies were held in places as far away as Madagascar, Tel Aviv and Bangui, Central African Republic.
周六，数十万人在巴黎、图卢兹、尼斯等法国城市举行了展示团结的游行活动。遥远的马达加斯加、特拉维夫以及中非共和国的班吉等地也出现了集会。
Top ministers in the French government held an emergency session to discuss measures to prevent a repeat of the attacks, which shocked the country and raised questions about why law enforcement agencies had failed to thwart terrorism suspects well known to the police and intelligence services.
法国政府最高级别的部长召开了紧急会议，讨论防止再次发生此类袭击活动的措施。这几起袭击事件震惊了全法国，引发了人们的质疑：对于警方和情报机构已然十分熟悉的恐怖嫌疑人，执法机构缘何未能挫败他们的阴谋？
Some of the surviving hostages shared chilling accounts of their ordeals at the hands of heavily armed captors, who they said had seemed prepared to die as police forces amassed outside the kosher supermarket and a printing plant northeast of Paris that the Kouachi brothers had seized early Friday.
一些获救的人质描述了他们在全副武装的劫持者的控制下的恐怖经历。他们说，当警方聚集在这座犹太洁食超市外和周五早上库瓦奇兄弟控制的巴黎东北部一家印刷厂外的时候，劫持者似乎做好了拼命的准备。
Mr. Coulibaly, in an interview with a French television outlet not long before he was killed, claimed to be affiliated with the Islamic State, which has its headquarters in northern Syria. Officials identified him as the gunman in the fatal shooting of a female police officer in a Paris suburb on Thursday.
在被击毙前不久，古里巴利对法国一家电视台称，自己来自伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）。该组织的大本营设在叙利亚北部。法国官方表示，古里巴利就是周四在巴黎郊区枪杀了一名女警员的歹徒。
The crisis and its aftermath presented a major challenge to President François Hollande and his government, which are facing deep religious and cultural rifts in a nation with a rapidly growing Muslim population while simultaneously coping with the security threats stemming from Islamic extremists. Large numbers of French citizens have been traveling to Syria and Iraq to fight with the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL.
这场危机以及它所造成的影响，为法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)及其领导的政府带来了重大挑战。随着法国穆斯林人口的快速增长，奥朗德政府正面临着国内严重的宗教和文化分歧，同时还要应对来自伊斯兰主义极端分子的安全威胁。大量法国公民正前往叙利亚和伊拉克，参与伊斯兰国的战斗。
Mr. Hollande, appealing for unity, has warned against seeing Muslims as the enemy, and Mr. Valls called again on Saturday for citizens to join the rally planned for Sunday.
奥朗德呼吁保持团结，提醒人们不要把穆斯林视为敌人。瓦尔斯周六再次号召国民参与定于周日举行的集会活动。
“There needs to be a firm message about the values of the republic and of secularism,” Mr. Valls said in Évry. “Tomorrow, France and the French can be proud. Everyone must come tomorrow.”
“关于共和国与世俗主义的价值，我们需要传达一个坚定的信号，”瓦尔斯在埃夫里说。“明天，法国和法国人会以此为傲。每个人明天都应该参加。”
But the event was already proving polarizing in some quarters. Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front, which was not invited, urged her followers to stay away, saying the rally had been “taken over by parties which represent what the French hate: partisan spirit, electioneering and indecent polemic.”
但是，这项活动已经在一些地方引发了巨大分歧。未受邀请的法国极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)的领导人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)告诫追随者与之保持距离，表示集会“已被代表法国人所憎恨的事物——党派斗争、拉票活动和不雅论战——的那些政党控制。”
Mr. Valls’s statement that France was at war with jihadists and radicals reflected the depth of the concerns over security in France and across much of Western Europe.
瓦尔斯关于法国正在与圣战和激进分子作战的言论，反映了人们对法国及西欧大部分地区的安全状况的担忧程度。
American officials said Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. would attend a meeting in Paris on Sunday convened by the French interior minister. Terrorist threats, foreign fighters and violent extremism were expected to be at the top of the agenda.
美国官员称，司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)将在巴黎出席由法国内政部长召集进行的会议。届时，恐怖主义威胁、外国武装分子和暴力极端主义将成为首要议题。
New details began to emerge Saturday about the standoffs, including the role played by a hostage at the printing plant in Dammartin-en-Goële, northeast of Paris.
周六，关于危机僵持阶段的一些新细节开始浮出水面，包括在位于巴黎东北郊的达马丁-高尔的一座印刷厂遭劫持的其中一名人质所扮演的角色。
Prosecutors said that an employee at the plant had hidden under a sink in the cafeteria on the second floor, undetected and terrified, after the Kouachi brothers forced their way into the building early Friday. The chief executive of the company, Michel Catalano, told Sky News that he had instructed the employee to hide when he saw the gunmen. He said the man, Lilian Lepère, had secretly texted the police during the standoff and negotiations with the brothers that lasted until dusk.
检察部门称，周五早晨，当库瓦奇兄弟闯入印刷厂时，里面的一名工作人员藏在二层的餐厅的水槽下方，此人非常害怕，但并未被发现。公司首席执行官米歇尔·卡塔拉诺(Michel Catalano)告诉天空电视台新闻频道(Sky News)，看到持械歹徒时，他指示这名员工藏起来。与歹徒的对峙和谈判一直持续到黄昏。卡塔拉诺说，这期间，这名叫做利利安·勒佩尔(Lilian Lepère)的男员工偷偷给警方发了短信。
“I could see from a window that there was a man with a rocket launcher and a Kalashnikov,” the broadcaster quoted him as saying. “I could immediately see there was a situation of danger. I told my employee to hide. I knew two of us couldn’t hide.”
“我从一扇窗户看到，有个人扛着一个火箭弹发射器和一把卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪，”电视台援引他的话说。“我立即觉察到可能会发生危险。我告诉那名员工藏起来。我知道，那里无法躲下我们两人。”
Hours after the takeover of the printing plant, Mr. Coulibaly, armed with AK-47s and explosives, took hostages, including women and children, at the kosher supermarket in eastern Paris.
在印刷厂被占领几小时后，端着AK-47步枪、身携炸药的古里巴利在巴黎东部的一家犹太洁食超市挟制了人质，其中既有女性，也有儿童。
The police said Mr. Coulibaly had killed four people after he forced his way into the supermarket.
警方称，古里巴利在闯入超市后，杀害了四人。
A young employee at the supermarket, Lassana Bathily, a Muslim from Mali, helped hide people in a cold storage room in the basement.
超市的年轻员工、来自马里的穆斯林拉萨纳·巴蒂利(Lassana Bathily)帮人们躲进了地下的一个冷藏室里。
One witness, Mickael, who declined to give his last name, told Le Point magazine that he had gone to the market with his 3-year-old son to buy bread and chicken for the Sabbath, and heard a loud blast.
不愿透露姓氏的目击者米克尔(Mickael)告诉《观点》(Le Point)杂志，他带着三岁的儿子去超市为安息日买面包和鸡肉，结果听到了一个巨大的爆炸声。
“I thought it was a firecracker,” he said. “But when I turned my head, I saw a black man armed with two Kalashnikovs.” He said he grabbed his son by the collar and they hid in the basement.
“我还以为是爆竹，”他说。“但是，当我转过头，却看到一名拿着两把卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪的黑衣男子。”他表示自己一把抓住儿子的衣领，藏进了地下室。
“Five minutes later, a grocery employee sent by the attacker came down and told us to come upstairs, or the attacker said there would be a blood bath,” he continued. Upstairs, they found a dead man in a pool of blood and a calm Mr. Coulibaly, who introduced himself as a Muslim from Mali who belonged to the Islamic State.
“五分钟后，袭击者让一名店里的员工下来，叫我们上楼，要不然就要血洗这里，”他接着说。他们上楼后，发现一名男性死者倒在血泊之中，古里巴利则很平静，说自己是来自马里的穆斯林，是伊斯兰国的成员。
Mr. Coulibaly ordered the hostages to put their phones down, but Mickael said he had discreetly recovered his and contacted the police. He said Mr. Coulibaly had appeared ready to die, with guns in both hands and a box of bullets nearby.
古里巴利命令人质放下手机，但米克尔称，他悄悄地拿回手机，并联系了警方。他说，古里巴利似乎已经做好了赴死的准备，他两只手都拿着枪，旁边还有一盒子弹。