PARIS — A 25-year-old Frenchman who fatally stabbed a police officer and his companion at their home in a suburb of Paris on Monday, an attack quickly claimed by the Islamic State, was detained from 2011 to 2013 for involvement in a terrorist network that aspired to be active in Afghanistan and Pakistan, authorities said Tuesday.
巴黎——当局在周二表示，周一在巴黎郊区将一名警察及其伴侣在家中刺死的那名25岁法国男子，在2011至2013年间曾被羁押，原因是和一个寻求前往阿富汗和巴基斯坦行动的恐怖主义团伙有牵连。周一的事件发生后，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)很快宣布对袭击负责。
At a news conference, the Paris prosecutor, François Molins, offered new details about the brutal killings.
在新闻发布会上，巴黎检察官弗朗索瓦·莫兰(François Molins)提供了这起残忍的杀戮事件的更多细节。
The killings raised new concerns about radicalization, as the assailant in France, identified as Larossi Abballa, was a French citizen who had been convicted and sentenced for terrorism-related activities.
事件引起了有关激进化的一些新的担忧，因为这个名叫拉罗西·阿巴拉(Larossi Abballa)的凶手是法国公民，曾因参与恐怖主义相关活动而被定罪并判刑。
The assault began between 8 and 8:20 p.m. Monday, when Abballa fatally stabbed a police officer, 42, outside his home in Magnanville, a village about 35 miles west of Paris, according to Molins said.
据莫兰介绍，袭击始于周一晚上8点至8点20之间，地点在巴黎以西约35英里（约合56公里）的村庄马尼安维尔，阿巴拉将那名现年42岁的警察在其住所外刺死。
Abballa then entered the house and held hostage the officer’s companion, a 36-year-old woman who worked at a police station in Mantes-la-Jolie, and the couple’s 3-year-old son, before Abballa fatally stabbed her.
之后，阿巴拉进入屋内，将那名警察的伴侣和两人三岁的儿子劫为人质，后又将那名警察的伴侣刺死。遇害女子36岁，在芒特拉若利某警察局工作。
A neighbor summoned authorities, who included members of an elite police unit. According to Molins, Abballa told police that he was a Muslim observing Ramadan; a supporter of the Islamic State and its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi; and that he was following an injunction by al-Baghdadi to “kill the infidels at home with their families.”
一个邻居报了警，警方出动了包括特警在内的人员。据莫兰介绍，阿巴拉告诉警方自己是一名遵守斋戒的穆斯林，支持伊斯兰国及其领导人阿布·贝克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)，并表示自己是在执行巴格达迪的命令，“去那些异教徒的家里，杀死他们以及他们的家人。”
Members of the elite police unit, known as RAID, stormed the home around midnight, fatally wounding Abballa and rescuing the child, who Molins said was traumatized but physically unharmed.
名为RAID的特警部队成员在午夜前后对那所房屋发起突袭，打死阿巴拉并救出了那个孩子。莫兰称孩子遭受了精神创伤，但身体无恙。
Abballa was one of eight men convicted in Paris in 2013 of aiding a group that intended to commit terrorist acts and that had planned to go to Pakistan for training.
2013年，包括阿巴拉在内的八名男子在巴黎被定罪，因为他们为一个打算制造恐怖活动并计划前往巴基斯坦接受训练的组织提协助。
He was given a three-year sentence on Sept. 30, 2013, including a six-month suspended sentence. His sentence was further reduced by the fact that he had been in detention since May 14, 2011.
2013年9月30日，阿巴拉被判刑三年，缓刑六个月。因为从2011年5月14日起便被羁押这一事实，他的刑期进一步缩短。
Although Abballa was released immediately after his trial, he was under surveillance for an additional two years and two months, until Nov. 30, 2015, Molins said.
尽管审判结束后阿巴拉立即获释，但莫兰表示，他又被监视了两年零两个月，直到2015年11月30日。
“At the trial, Abballa seemed like someone who was not dangerous but was rather stupid,” said Hervé Denis, a lawyer who represented Zohab Ifzar, one of the other defendants.
“庭审期间，阿巴拉看上去像是一个并不危险但相当愚蠢的人，”那起案件中的另一名被告佐哈布·伊夫扎尔(Zohab Ifzar)的代理律师埃尔韦·德尼(Hervé Denis)说。