PARIS — Political leaders and the French sports world reacted with shock and grief on Tuesday to the deaths of three prominent athletes in a helicopter crash in Argentina, including the gold-medalist swimmer Camille Muffat and the transoceanic sailor Florence Arthaud.
巴黎——政治领导人及法国体育界周二对三名著名运动员在一起于阿根廷发生的直升机坠机事故中身亡表示震惊和哀悼。三名遇难运动员包括金牌得主游泳运动员卡蜜尔·莫法特(Camille Muffat)和跨洋帆船运动员弗洛伦斯·阿尔托(Florence Arthaud)。
The athletes were among 10 people killed Monday night when two helicopters collided during the filming of a reality television show, “Dropped,” in which contestants are taken to remote areas and try to find their way back to civilization.
这些运动员是周一晚间事故中遇难10人中的三位，事发时，两架直升机在电视真人秀节目《坠落》("Dropped")录制过程中相撞。在该节目中，参赛者被带到偏远地区，并要努力回到文明世界。
The office of the French president, François Hollande, confirmed the deaths of Ms. Muffat, Ms. Arthaud and the Olympic boxer Alexis Vastine in a statement overnight, adding, “The sudden death of our compatriots is an immense sadness.”
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的办公室连夜在一份声明中证实了莫法特、阿尔托及奥运会拳击选手亚历克西斯·瓦思庭(Alexis Vastine)的死讯，并补充道，“我们同胞的突然离世是一件令人极度悲伤的事。”
Prime Minister Manuel Valls wrote on Twitter that “all of France is grieving this morning.” Thierry Braillard, junior minister for sports, told BFM TV that French athletics had lost “three stars.”
法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)在Twitter上写道，“整个法国都在今晨哀悼。”体育国务秘书蒂埃里·布拉亚尔(Thierry Braillard)对BFM电视台(BFM TV)说，法国运动界失去了“三位明星”。
The five other French victims were staff members at Adventure Line Productions, which was producing the program for the channel TF1, according to the statement from Mr. Hollande’s office. The other two victims were the Argentine pilots of the helicopters, identified as Juan Carlos Castillo and Roberto Abate, The Associated Press reported.
据奥朗德办公室的声明，其他五名法国遇难者是正为TF1频道制作该节目的Adventure Line Productions公司的员工。美联社(The Associated Press)报道，余下两名遇难者是两架直升机的阿根廷飞行员，他们分别被指认为胡安·卡洛斯·卡斯蒂洛(Juan Carlos Castillo)和罗伯托·阿巴特(Roberto Abate)。
The two helicopters were heading toward a remote gorge in the northwestern province of La Rioja when they touched in the air and exploded, witnesses told a radio station. Argentina’s state news agency reported that the flying conditions had been ideal.
目击者对一家广播电台称，两架直升机在空中相撞并爆炸时正飞往位于西北部拉里奥哈省(La Rioja)的一个偏远的峡谷。阿根廷国家新闻社报道称，当时飞行条件一直属理想状况。
The mayor of the closest town to the crash site, Villa Castelli, said the helicopters were “totally burned.” About 80 people were in La Rioja, near the Chilean border, working on the program, provincial officials said.
距相撞事故地点最近的城镇卡斯特利镇(Villa Castelli)的镇长称，直升机“完全焚毁”。拉里奥哈省官员称，约有80人在靠近智利边境的该省为该节目工作。
Investigators were at the crash scene late on Monday. Agence France-Presse reported on Tuesday that the judicial authorities in Paris had opened an investigation for involuntary manslaughter, as is usual for fatal incidents involving French citizens abroad.
周一晚些时候，调查人员正在相撞事故现场。法新社(Agence France-Presse)周二报道称，巴黎司法当局已就此事故展开过失杀人罪调查，这是对境外涉法国公民死亡事故的处理惯例。
Ms. Muffat, 25, had won gold, silver and bronze medals at the 2012 London Olympic games; Mr. Vastine, 28, had won a bronze medal at the 2008 games in Beijing. Ms. Arthaud, 57, was a renowned sailor who won the Route du Rhum trans-Atlantic yacht race in 1990 and who was nicknamed the fiancée of the Atlantic for her feats of navigation.
25岁的莫法特曾在2012年伦敦奥运会上赢得金、银、铜牌；28岁的瓦思庭曾在2008年北京奥运会上赢得铜牌。57岁的阿尔托是一名著名帆船运动员，她在1990年曾赢得“朗姆之路”跨大西洋帆船赛(Route du Rhum trans-Atlantic yacht race)。她曾因其航行壮举享有“大西洋的未婚妻”的昵称。