PARIS — In a challenge to the American-led world financial order, some of the United States’ crucial European allies said on Tuesday that they would join a new development bank for Asia that is largely funded by China and that Washington views as a rival to the World Bank.
巴黎——美国在欧洲的几个至关重要的盟国周二表示，他们将加入一个亚洲的新发展银行，该银行被华盛顿视为世界银行(World Bank)的对手，其资金主要来自中国。这是对美国主导的世界金融秩序的又一挑战。
The French, German and Italian governments, in a joint statement, announced “their intention to become prospective founding members of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank,” known as the A.I.I.B.
法国、德国和意大利政府在一份联合声明中宣布，“他们申请作为意向创始成员国加入亚洲基础设施投资银行(Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank，简称亚投行)。”
The three nations are following the lead of Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative-led government in Britain, which last week announced its own decision to join.
这三个国家都是在步首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)的保守党领导的英国政府的后尘，英国已于上周宣布了自己加入亚投行的决定。
The three governments said that the bank, working with existing institutions, “could play an important role to provide funds for addressing the large infrastructure needs in Asia,” and that it would “promote economic and social development in the region and contribute to global growth.”
三国政府表示，亚投行通过与现有机构合作“可以发挥重要作用，为解决亚洲的大型基础设施需求提供资金”，并将会“促进亚洲地区的经济和社会发展，有助于全球经济增长”。
The bank was initially proposed by President Xi Jinping of China with a mission of helping to fund infrastructure projects in poor Asian countries, something the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank already do. China has pledged a large part of the initial $50 billion of capital, and Beijing hopes the institution will contribute to the expansion of its power base in Asia, even as its growing might, economic and military, reshapes the political dynamics of the region.
亚投行是中国国家主席习近平最早提出的，成立的目的是帮助亚洲贫穷国家提供基础设施项目资金，这是世界银行和亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)已经在做的事情。中国已承诺负担亚投行所需的500亿美元初始资本的大部分，北京希望这一新机构将有助于扩大其在亚洲的权力基础，北京不断增长的经济和军事力量正在重塑该地区的政治动态。
Washington had been lobbying against the participation of its allies, fearing that the rise of the Chinese-led lender would erode the institutions, such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, that were created to shepherd the world economy after World War II under American leadership.
华盛顿曾一直游说其盟国不要加入亚投行，美国担心这个由中国主导的贷款银行的崛起，会削弱诸如世界银行和国际货币基金组织等机构，这些现存机构是二次世界大战后在美国的领导下建立的。
In their statement on Tuesday, the three newest European members said they were “keen to work with the A.I.I.B. founding members to establish an institution that follows the best standards and practices in terms of governance, safeguards, debt and procurement policies.”
在他们周二的声明中，表示要加入亚投行的三个最新欧洲成员国称，他们“渴望与亚投行创始成员国一起来建立该机构，使其具有监管、保障、债务以及采购等政策方面的最高标准和最好实践。”
Before the announcement on Tuesday, the bank had more than 25 members, almost all from developing countries in Asia and the Middle East. Australia, Japan and South Korea have so far refused to join, but the entry of influential European countries could encourage other allies to participate, analysts have said.
在周二的宣布之前，亚投行已有逾25名成员国，几乎都是来自亚洲和中东地区的发展中国家。澳大利亚、日本和韩国至今仍拒绝加入，但分析人士表示，有影响力的欧洲国家的加入，可能回鼓励其他美国盟友的参与。
When asked to comment on the countries’ statement, Hong Lei, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, said he welcomed their willingness to become founding members.
当被问及对这些国家的声明有什么评论时，中国外交部发言人洪磊表示，中方欢迎有意愿的国家成为创始成员国。
“The active participation of countries both inside and outside of the region will make the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank more broadly representative,” he said.
他说，“域内外国家的积极参与将有利于体现亚投行的广泛代表性。”