PARIS — The chief Marseille prosecutor handling the investigation into the crash of a Germanwings jetliner said on Thursday that evidence from the cockpit voice recorder indicated that the co-pilot had deliberately locked the captain out of the cockpit and steered the plane into its fatal descent.
巴黎——周四，负责调查德国之翼坠机事件的马赛首席检察官称，驾驶舱录音显示，副驾驶故意将机长锁在驾驶舱外，并将飞机操纵进入致命下降过程。
“At this moment, in light of investigation, the interpretation we can give at this time is that the co-pilot through voluntary abstention refused to open the door of the cockpit to the commander, and activated the button that commands the loss of altitude,” the prosecutor, Brice Robin, said.
“此时此刻，从调查情况来看，我们目前能给出的解释是副驾驶自愿选择拒绝打开驾驶舱门让机长进入，并启动了导致飞机失去高度的按钮，”布莱斯·罗班(Brice Robin)检察官说。
He said it appeared that the intention of the co-pilot, identified as Andreas Lubitz, had been “to destroy the aircraft.” He said that the voice recorder showed that the co-pilot had been breathing until before the moment of impact, suggesting that he was conscious and deliberate in killing 144 passengers and five other crew members in the French Alps on Tuesday.
他还表示，看来名叫安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)的副驾驶的意图是“要摧毁飞机”。检察官称，录音显示，直至坠机的那一刻，副驾驶一直在呼吸，意味着他有意识、且故意于周二在法国境内的阿尔卑斯山区导致机上144名乘客和其他五名机组人员的死亡。
The inquiry had shown that the crash was intentional, Mr. Robin said, and he was considering changing his investigation from involuntary manslaughter to voluntary manslaughter.
罗班称，调查已显示坠机为故意行为，他正考虑将调查从过失杀人改为故意杀人。
He said there was no indication that this was a terrorist attack, and that Mr. Lubitz was not known to law enforcement officials.
他说，没有迹象显示这是一起恐怖袭击，卢比茨此前并不为执法官员所知。
An investigation into the background of Mr. Lubitz, who was 28 years old and came from the German town of Montabaur, is underway.
对卢比茨身份背景的调查正在进行中。 28岁的卢比茨来自德国城镇蒙塔鲍尔。
Asked if Mr. Lubitz had tried to commit suicide, he said, “I haven’t used the word suicide,” adding that it was “a legitimate question to ask.”
当被问到卢比茨是否试图自杀时，他说，“我没用自杀这个词，”并补充说，这是“一个合理的问题”。
The revelation that one of the pilots of the jetliner was locked out of the cockpit before it crashed raised new and troubling questions on Thursday, as search teams continued to scour the rugged terrain of the French Alps for clues that could shed light on what happened. Several other issues remained unclear on Thursday, including the identity of the captain and why he had left the cockpit.
随着搜索队在法国境内阿尔卑斯山脉崎岖陡峭的地区继续搜寻线索，以揭示所发生的事情，周四披露的机上一名飞行员在飞机坠毁前被锁在驾驶舱外这一情况，给调查提出了新的棘手问题。还有一些其他问题在周四仍不清楚，包括机长是谁，他为什么离开驾驶舱。
The flight, an Airbus A320 operated by the budget carrier Germanwings, was traveling to Düsseldorf, Germany, from Barcelona, Spain, on Tuesday morning when it descended and slammed into the French Alps.
廉价航空公司德国之翼运营的这架空客A320航班，周二上午在从西班牙巴塞罗那飞往德国杜塞尔多夫的途中，降低飞行高度，撞到法国境内的阿尔卑斯山。
The prosecutor said that the authorities had a full transcript of the final 30 minutes of the voice recorder.
检察官表示，当局有声音记录器最后30分钟的全部文字记录。
“During the first 20 minutes, the pilots talk normally,” he said, saying they spoke in a “cheerful” and “courteous” way. “There is nothing abnormal happening,” he said.
“在前20分钟里，飞行员之间正常交谈，”他说，并称他们的交谈方式“欢快”而且“客气”。“没有任何不正常的事情发生，”他说。
The prosecutor said the transcript showed that the captain was preparing a briefing for landing in Düsseldorf. The co-pilot’s answer, the prosecutor said, was “laconic.”
检察官说，文字记录显示，当时机长正对在杜塞尔多夫降落的准备工作做出详细指示。检察官说，副驾驶的回答很“简洁”。
The commanding pilot then asked the co-pilot to take over, and the noise of a seat backing up and a door closing could be heard.
然后，机长让副驾驶接管了飞机的控制，接下来听到的事座椅向后推的噪音，以及关门的声音。
“At this stage, the co-pilot is in control, alone,” the prosecutor said. “It is when he is alone that the co-pilot manipulates the flight monitoring system to activate the descent of the plane.” The prosecutor said that this action could only have been “voluntary.”
“在这个阶段，副驾驶员独自一人在控制飞机，”检察官说。“就是在他独自一人的时候，副驾驶员操纵飞行监控系统，开启了飞机的下降程序。”检察官称该行动只可能是“自愿的”。
“You can hear the commanding pilot ask for access to the cockpit several times,” the prosecutor said. “He identifies himself, but the co-pilot does not provide any answer.”
“你可以听到机长几次要求进入驾驶舱，”检察官说。“他报了自己的姓名，但副驾驶员没有做出任何答复。”
“You can hear human breathing in the cockpit up until the moment of impact,” the prosecutor said. “The pilot was therefore alive.”
“你可以听到驾驶舱内人的呼吸声，直到撞击的那一刻，”检察官说。“这说明飞行员当时仍活着。”
Mr. Robin said there was no sound in the cockpit as the pilot struggled to get back inside other than the “normal” breathing of the co-pilot. Before the plane crashed, he said, the sound of passengers screaming could be heard.
罗班说，在机长试图回到驾驶舱期间，驾驶舱里没有其他声音，只有副驾驶员的“正常”呼吸声。他说，飞机坠毁前，可以听到机上乘客的尖叫声。
During the descent, he said, air traffic controllers repeatedly tried to contact the aircraft but received no response.
他说，在下降过程中，空中交通管制员曾多次试图与飞机联系，但都没有得到任何回应。
Martin Riecken, a spokesman in Frankfurt for Lufthansa, the parent company of Germanwings said before the news conference in Marseille that “both pilots had been trained to Lufthansa standards.”
总部在法兰克福的汉莎航空公司发言人马丁·里肯(Martin Riecken)在马赛的新闻发布会上之前曾说，“两名飞行员都是按照汉莎的标准培训出来的。”汉莎是德国之翼的母公司。
Officials from Germanwings and Lufthansa were scheduled to hold a news conference in Cologne, Germany, at 2:30 p.m.
德国之翼和汉莎航空的官员计划在下午2:30，在德国科隆举行新闻发布会。
A flight club based near Montabaur posted a death notice for “Andreas” on its website. “Andreas became a member of the club as a youth to fulfill his dream of flying,” the LSC Westerwald club said on its website.
总部设在蒙塔鲍尔附近的一家飞行俱乐部在其网站上发布了“安德烈亚斯”死亡的通告。这家名为LSC Westerwald的俱乐部在其网站上称，“为了实现自己的飞行梦想，安德烈亚斯在青少年时期成为俱乐部的一员。”
“He fulfilled his dream, the dream he now paid so dearly with his life,” the club said.
“他实现了自己的梦想，为了这个梦想，他付出了宝贵的生命代价，”俱乐部的通告说。
The posting appeared on the site before Mr. Robin told reporters in Marseille that the co-pilot had consciously put the plane on course to land while flying over mountainous terrain with no airport in the region.
该通告是在马赛的新闻发布会之前在网站上出现的，罗班在马赛告诉记者，在飞机飞跃山区、附近没有机场的情况下，副驾驶员有意识地将飞机操作进入下降程序。
Mr. Lubitz was registered as living with his parents in the Montabaur region, but he also had a home in Düsseldorf, the German TV station N24 reported.
据德国电视台N24报道，虽然卢比茨登记与父母一起住在蒙塔鲍尔地区，但他在杜塞尔多夫也有一个住所。
The news conference raised the possibility of a pilot suicide. The captain, who left the cockpit, would have had to have followed a precise procedure to get back in. Assuming the cockpit door did not malfunction, analysts said, it was possible that the co-pilot could have activated a switch that would have denied the captain access to the controls for several minutes.
新闻发布会上有人提出了飞行员自杀的可能性。机长离开驾驶舱后，需要按照一个准确程序才能返回驾驶舱。分析人士表示，假设驾驶舱门没发生故障的话，有这样一种可能，那就是副驾驶员启动了一个开关，让机长在几分钟的时间里不能接触到飞机的控制。
In 1999, after a Cairo-bound EgyptAir flight crashed in the Atlantic Ocean off Nantucket, Mass., killing 217 people, investigators at the time said they suspected that the co-pilot might have attempted suicide. The United States National Transportation Safety Board, which was charged with the investigation, concluded that the crash had occurred because of the co-pilot’s “manipulation of the airplane controls,” although its report explicitly did not use the word suicide.
1999年，埃及航空公司一架飞往开罗的客机，在马萨诸塞州楠塔基特岛以外的大西洋中坠毁，导致机上217人死亡，在那之后，调查人员当时曾表示，他们猜测是副驾驶员可能企图自杀。负责调查的美国国家运输安全委员会得出的结论是，坠机发生的原因是副驾驶员“对飞机控制的操纵”，但调查报告中没有明确使用自杀这个词。
Stefan Schaffrath, an Airbus spokesman, said on Thursday that in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the United States, Airbus had upgraded the reinforcements of cockpit doors on its planes in compliance with international regulations.
空中客车公司发言人斯特凡·沙夫拉特(Stefan Schaffrath)周四表示，2001年9月11日美国发生恐怖袭击之后，空客按照国际法规的要求，对驾驶舱门的加强进行了升级。
According to an Airbus video describing the operations of locking the cockpit door, it is locked by default when closed. But when a pilot wants to lock the cockpit door to bar access to someone outside, he or she can move the toggle to a position marked “locked,” which illuminates a red light on a numeric code pad outside. That disables the door, keypad and the door buzzer for five minutes.
据空客描述驾驶舱门上锁操作的视频，驾驶舱门关闭时的默认状态是锁着的。但是，当飞行员为了阻止外人进来，要锁定驾驶舱门时，他或她可以将一个切换开关置于“锁定”状态，同时点亮舱门外面一个数字代码输入盘上的红灯。这一操作使舱门、输入盘，以及门上的蜂鸣器失灵五分钟。
While these functions are disabled, the video shows, the only way to make contact with the crew is via an intercom. The doors can then only be opened if someone inside overrides the lock command by moving and holding the toggle switch to the “unlock” position.
视频显示，当这些功能失灵后，机组成员建立联系的唯一方式是通过对讲设备。舱门只是在解除锁定命令后才能打开，这就需要驾驶舱内的人将上述切换开关推至并按在“解锁”状态。
If someone outside the cockpit suspects the pilot is incapacitated, that person would normally first try to establish contact via the intercom or by activating a buzzer. If those efforts were unsuccessful, the video shows, a crew member outside the cockpit would need to enter an emergency code on the keypad.
如果驾驶舱外有人怀疑飞行员失去了操作能力，这个人通常需要尝试通过对讲设备或激活蜂鸣器与飞行员建立联系。该视频显示，如果这些努力均告失败，驾驶舱外的机组成员将需要在输入盘上键入一个紧急代码。
The code activates a loud buzzer and flashing light on the cockpit control panel, and it sets off a timer that unlocks the door 30 seconds later. The person outside has five seconds to enter before the door locks again.
该代码激活一个响亮的蜂鸣器，还让驾驶舱控制面板上的灯光闪烁，同时开启一个计时器，30秒后解锁驾驶舱门。门外的人在舱门再次锁定之前，有五秒钟的时间进入驾驶舱。
As investigators continued to pore over the clues, relatives of the victims were expected to arrive on Thursday near the site of the crash, where a makeshift chapel has been set up, and where psychologists are available to provide support. Lufthansa was to operate two special flights for family members on Thursday from Barcelona and from Düsseldorf.
随着调查人员继续分析线索，罹难者家属预计在周四抵达坠机地点附近的地方，那里已搭建起一座临时教堂，并有心理医师提供支持。汉莎航空周四为这些家庭成员提供了两个特殊航班，分别发自巴塞罗那和杜塞尔多夫。
The victims of the crash included many Germans and Spaniards, including 16 high school students who were returning from an exchange program. Other victims included citizens of Britain, Colombia, Iran, Israel and the United States, among others.
坠机遇难者中有许多德国人和西班牙人，其中包括16名高中学生，他们是在一个交流活动结束后的返回途中。其他罹难者包括英国、哥伦比亚、伊朗、以色列、美国，以及其他国家的公民。