NICE, France — Terrorist attacks in France come often enough that they can seem to be variations on a painful pattern: carnage followed by disbelief, then condemnations, condolences, and shrines of flowers, candles and letters for the dead.
法国尼斯——恐怖袭击在法国发生得够频繁，以至它们似乎成了一种痛苦模式的变奏：不信任带来大屠杀，然后是谴责、安慰，以及为死难者献上鲜花、蜡烛和信。
Yet to see the attacks only that way is to miss the one element that might buoy the national spirit: In nearly every terrorist episode here, ordinary individuals risked their own safety to try to halt the attack or to lend a hand to the wounded rather than running away. Some of these local heroes are recognized right away, though others never receive recognition and some receive it only belatedly.
不过，只用那种方式看待袭击就会忽视一个可能振奋民族精神的因素：在这里几乎所有的恐怖袭击中，都有普通人不顾自身安危，努力阻止袭击，或者向伤者伸出援手。在这些本地的英雄中，有些马上得到认可，也有些从未得到认可，还有些得到了迟来的认可。
“What I saw was horrible, people crushed — it had to be stopped,” said a 48-year-old man named Franck who would not give his surname even after he was decorated by the City of Nice for his effort to stop the driver of a cargo truck that ran over scores of people at a Bastille Day celebration on July 14.
“我看到了可怕的场面，民众遭到碾压——必须拦下它，”48岁的弗兰克(Franck)说。即便在得到尼斯市颁发的奖章之后，他依然不愿说出自己的姓氏。7月14日，一辆货车在巴士底日(Bastille Day)庆祝活动中碾压了很多人，弗兰克试图奋力拦下司机。
A worker at the Nice airport, Franck, who was on a motor scooter, decided in a split second to chase the truck and when he caught up, rammed it — to no avail — and was knocked off. He got up and ran after the truck, managed to climb onto the running boards and began hitting the driver through the open window. As the driver, Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel, tried to shoot Franck his gun failed and at the same time, Franck tried to open the door of the truck, then tried climbing through the window, but the driver struck him on the head with the gun and he fell, breaking a rib and badly bruising his back.
弗兰克是尼斯机场的一名工人，当时他正骑着一辆小型摩托车，于是马上决定去追那辆卡车，追上后猛撞了一下卡车——没起到什么用——他自己却被撞倒了。他站起来追上卡车，爬上踏板，透过开着的车窗打司机。司机穆罕默德·拉胡艾杰·布赫莱勒(Mohamed Lahouaiej Bouhlel)试图枪击弗兰克，但是枪出了问题，与此同时，弗兰克想要打开车门，然后又设法从窗子爬进去，但是司机用枪打他的头，他摔了下去，摔断了一根肋骨，后背严重挫伤。
Franck said he was satisfied that when the driver was fighting with him, he was not running over more people. “He was concentrating on me; in that moment he could not kill people,” he said.
弗兰克说，司机跟他打斗时没有碾压更多人，这令他感到欣慰。“他的注意力都在我身上，那段时间他不能杀人，”他说。
At least two other men made similar, if less prolonged, efforts and also received medals from the City of Nice: Alexander Migues pursued the truck on a bicycle, and Gwenaël Leriche, a 26-year-old deliveryman, ran after the truck armed with nothing but a penknife and tried to jump onto the running boards as the truck came to a halt.
另外至少还有两名男子做出了类似的努力——只不过没持续这么长时间——他们也获得了尼斯市颁发的奖章：亚历山大·米格(Alexander Migues)骑着自行车追那辆卡车；26岁的格维奈尔·勒里什(Gwenaël Leriche)是一名快递员，他跟着那辆卡车跑，手里只有一把小折刀，在卡车停下时试图跳上踏板。
They were not unique. Almost every attack or attempted attack in France since the assault on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Jan. 7, 2015, produced local heroes.
他们并非独一无二。从2015年1月7日讽刺杂志《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)遇袭后，在法国几乎所有的袭击或未遂袭击中，都涌现出很多本地英雄。
There was Lassana Bathily, a Muslim immigrant from Mali, who hid shoppers in the basement of a kosher grocery store outside Paris two days after the Charlie Hebdo attack, then smuggled them out as the terrorist Amedy Coulibaly held people hostage upstairs.
在《查理周刊》遭袭两天后，马里的穆斯林移民拉萨纳·巴蒂利(Lassana Bathily)把购物者藏在巴黎郊外一个犹太食杂店的地下室里，然后偷偷把他们送出去，而当时恐怖分子阿梅迪·库利巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)正在楼上劫持人质。
In Villejuif in April last year, a fitness instructor and mother, Aurélie Châtelain, 32, refused to hand over her car to Sid Ahmed Ghlam, who the authorities say planned to gun down a crowd at a suburban church. Her refusal ended with both of them being shot in a tussle, and she died. When Mr. Ghlam called the police for help, he was arrested. He remains in prison and contends he did not shoot her.
去年4月，在维勒瑞夫，32岁的健身教练（也是一位母亲）奥雷莉·沙特兰(Aurélie Châtelain)拒绝把自己的汽车交给锡德·艾哈迈德·格拉姆(Sid Ahmed Ghlam)，当局称后者计划在一座郊区教堂向人群扫射。两人在扭打中双双中枪，沙特兰殒命。格拉姆报警求救后被捕。他目前仍在监狱，坚称自己没有向沙特兰开枪。
Ms. Châtelain received the Légion d’Honneur posthumously after her family and friends pointed out that if those who stopped a gunman presumed to be on the verge of an attack on the high-speed Thalys train running from Amsterdam to Paris deserved France’s highest award, so did she.
沙特兰死后获得荣誉军团勋章(Légion d’Honneur)，因为她的家人和朋友提出，如果那些在从阿姆斯特丹开往巴黎的“大力士”高速列车上制止一名即将开始袭击的枪手的人配得上法国最高荣誉的话，那么她也配得上。
The attempted attack on the train occurred almost exactly a year ago, when a shirtless man emerged from a train bathroom with a Kalashnikov assault rifle and a Luger pistol. Three Americans who stopped him have been decorated by France’s president, along with a Briton and a French-American man, Mark Moogalian, who was the first to grab the gunman, Ayoub El Khazzani. Mr. Moogalian was shot in the process but survived. The intervention of the men stopped what could have become a slaughter.
火车上的那次未遂袭击几乎正好发生在一年前。一名赤裸上身的男子从火车卫生间出来，拿着一支卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪和一把卢格尔手枪。三名制止他的美国人获得法国总统亲自授予的奖章，一同获奖的还有一名英国人以及法裔美国人马克·穆加连(Mark Moogalian)。穆加连第一个抓住枪手阿尤布·艾尔·卡扎尼(Ayoub El Khazzani)，他在打斗中中枪，不过活了下来。这些男人的介入阻止了一场屠杀。
On Nov. 13, 2015, when extremists tied to the Islamic State attacked a theater, a stadium and restaurants in and near Paris, a number of people made extraordinary efforts to help each other. One was Ludovic Boumbas, a 40-year-old of Congolese descent, who lived in Lille and was celebrating the birthday of a waitress at the bar-cafe La Belle Équipe when armed men began firing on them. He jumped in front of a young woman who was at the party and was fatally shot; she was wounded but survived.
2015年11月13日，与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)有牵连的极端分子袭击了一座剧院、一个体育馆，以及巴黎及其附近的几家餐馆，很多人付出不同寻常的努力互相帮助。其中一位是40岁的刚果人卢多维克·本巴(Ludovic Boumbas)。他住在里尔，他在La Belle Équipe咖啡馆给一名女服务员庆生时，几名持枪男子向人群开火。他跳到派对一名年轻女子身前，结果自己遭到致命枪击，那名女子也受伤了，但是活了下来。
Most recently, in July, Sister Danielle Delafosse overcame her fear after terrorists entered a small church at St.-Étienne-Du-Rouvray in Rouen, France, with the intent to kill people. She ran out of the church, found someone with a phone and had the person call the police, who arrived too late to save the Rev. Jacques Hamel, 85, who was killed, but perhaps in time to prevent more bloodshed.
最近一次是今年7月。在恐怖分子进入法国鲁昂圣艾蒂安-迪鲁夫赖的一座小教堂意图杀人时，修女达妮埃尔·德拉福斯(Danielle Delafosse)克服恐惧，跑出教堂，找到一个有电话的人，让那人报警。警察到达时，85岁的雅克·阿梅尔牧师(Jacques Hamel)已经遇害，不过他们也许及时避免了更多流血伤害。
While the heroism that gains attention is often the sort that risks the hero’s own life or limb, many who acted in less visible ways nonetheless transcended the moment. They responded with an extraordinary commitment to assist the wounded in circumstances that many would find overwhelming. In Nice, they include doctors, X-ray technicians, nurses and firefighters who worked hours upon hours treating the injured or trying to match lost children with their families.
虽然引起注意的英勇行为往往是那些有可能危及生命或导致肢体损伤的行为，但是很多以不那么显眼的方式采取行动的人也超越了那个时刻。在那种很多人会觉得难以承受的情况下，他们以不同寻常的奉献精神帮助伤者。在尼斯，他们包括医生、X光放射技师、护士和消防员，他们连续数小时治疗伤者，努力帮助走散的孩子与家人取得联系。
There was also Gilles Thévenet, the owner of the High Club, a popular discothèque in Nice that faces the Promenade des Anglais, who swiftly turned his nightclub into a triage center for emergency workers.
还有尼斯很受欢迎的迪斯科舞厅High Club的老板吉勒·泰弗内(Gilles Thévenet)。该舞厅正对着盎格鲁街。泰弗内立刻把自己的夜总会变成紧急救护人员的分诊厅。
Mr. Thévenet is not sure when — or even if — business will return, especially because many in Nice know that the dead and wounded lay in rows on the same floor where they would be dancing. But he believes it will.
泰弗内不确定舞厅的生意什么时候能恢复，甚至不知道还能不能恢复，尤其是考虑到尼斯的很多人都知道曾经有一排排死伤者躺在舞池上。不过，他相信生意会好起来。
“We will have to find again the party atmosphere, that has been our protein for 11 years,” he said. “It is out of the question to cede it to the terrorists.”
“我们必须再次找到派对气氛，那是我们11年来的精神营养，”他说。“我们绝不能把它拱手交给恐怖分子。”