PARIS — In the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris in January, the French have begun what has become almost a rite of passage for Western nations since the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States: handing the government vastly expanded powers to protect, and spy on, its citizens.
巴黎——今年1月巴黎发生恐怖袭击之后，法国开始走上自9·11以来西方国家几乎必经的一条路：大幅增加政府保护、监控其国民的权力。
That impulse for government protection, even at the expense of civil liberities, is hardly unique. In the aftermath of national trauma, citizens crave security, politicians rush to show resolve and security services covet more tools to confront mounting dangers.
即便以公民自由为代价也要寻求政府保护的冲动，远不止是这一例。经历举国伤痛之后，民众渴望安全，政治人士们急于展示决心，安全机构则希望获得更多手段，以应对日益增加的危险。
Even as some experts said it was unlikely that any of the proposed measures would have prevented the January attacks, the National Assembly, the lower house of the French parliament, overwhelmingly enhanced the spying powers of the nation's intelligence services.
尽管一些专家表示，提案中的任何举措都不可能预防今年1月的袭击事件，法国议会下院国民议会(National Assembly)还是一边倒地支持了增强该国情报机构监控权力的法案。
As striking was the near absence of public attention and debate around the measures — the news barely made the front pages of newspapers here on Wednesday, even though in the run-up to vote, some news media had highlighted the potential abuses of the far-reaching legislation.
令人震惊的是，这些举措几乎没有引起公众关注和争论——相关新闻周三几乎没有登上当地报纸的头版，尽管在投票前夕，一些新闻媒体强调这部影响广泛的法案可能遭到滥用。
“This is the tradition of a country that used to see itself as a great power — so we do whatever it takes,” said Dominique Moisi, a political scientist and the co-founder of the French Institute for International Relations.
政治学家、法国国际关系研究所(French Institute for International Relations)联合创始人多米尼克·莫伊西(Dominique Moisi)表示，“这是一个习惯了自己当作大国的国家会有的传统——因此我们不惜一切代价。”
Indeed, if anything, Europe and the United States seem to be trading places when it comes to government intrusion on citizens.
当然，如果有什么不同的话，在政府对公民的侵扰方面，欧洲和美国似乎是在对换位置。
After more than a decade of wide government surveillance — the extent of which was not fully known until the leaks from the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden two years ago — the American public and their lawmakers are having second thoughts about excessive snooping and restraining somewhat its data collection powers.
经过10多年的大范围政府监控——其规模之大，直到美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)两年前揭露相关信息后，才得到彻底明确——美国民众及议员目前正在重新考虑这种过度窥探的行为，考虑对政府收集数据的权力加以限制。
The Snowden leaks immediately alarmed and outraged many Europeans, but after a spate of anti-American rhetoric, each country has grappled with finding a balance between privacy protection and public security in its own way.
斯诺登泄密事件立即让很多欧洲人感到惊慌、愤怒，但在发表一系列反美言论后，每个国家都努力用自己的方式在隐私保护及公共安全之间达到平衡。
Even those countries that prize discretion are facing the reality that the new era of global communication and social media oversharing compromises privacy and that little on the Internet can be kept secret. That in turn perhaps, is making it easier to accept government snooping.
甚至连那些十分谨慎的国家都面临以下现实，即在全球通讯及社交媒体过度分享的新时代，隐私权受到损害，互联网使得一切都无法保密。这样反过来可能会促使人们更容易接受政府的窥探。
In the case of France, concerns voiced by a broad coalition opposed to the measures — which will allow the intelligence services to collect and monitor bulk cybercommunications, read texts and email and tap cellphones as well as place recording devices in people's homes and cars, with little judicial oversight — gained relatively little traction.
在法国，一个反对相关举措的广泛联盟提出了担忧，但没有得到什么响应。这些举措将允许情报机构收集并监控大量网络通讯信息，浏览短信、邮件，监听手机通话，并在人们的住所、汽车中安放录音装置，这些举措几乎不受司法监督。
Those opponents include Internet companies, civil liberties supporters and some left-leaning members of the French parliament, as well as some judges and lawyers.
反对者包括网络公司、公民自由支持者、法国议会的一些左倾议员，以及一些法官和律师。
Contributing to the acquiescience on the part of both politicians and citizens is a political culture in Western Europe that lacks the strand of anti-government sentiment seen in, for example, Libertarians or the Tea Party in the United States.
政治人士及公民的默许态度，在一定程度上源于西欧的一种政治文化，这种文化缺少在美国可以看到的那种反政府情绪，比如自由论者或茶党(Tea Party)。
Absent, too, is the tradition of congressional oversight hearings, which in the United States are used to scrutinize government proposals and programs.
欧洲还缺少举行国会监督听证会的传统，美国会通过听证会审查政府的提案或项目。
Although a Socialist government like France's might be expected to be sympathetic to those wary of government intrusiveness — the majority of Green Party lawmakers voted against the bill — President François Hollande is politically weak and cannot risk being seen as not acting forcefully in the face of threats foreign or domestic.
人们本以为法国这样由社会党领导的政府，应该会支持那些警惕政府侵扰的人——大多数来自绿党(Green Party)的议员对该法案投了反对票——但法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的政治地位脆弱，不能冒险给人留下面对国内外威胁不采取有力行动的印象。
Prominent terrorist attacks also present opportunities for intelligence and security services to amass powers that previously eluded them in dealing with the new and shadowy forms of terrorism that are spreading globally today.
重大恐怖袭击事件也会给情报及安全机构带来积聚权力的机会，他们之前在应对新型的、隐蔽的恐怖主义时没有获得这种权力，如今这种形式的恐怖主义已经蔓延至全球。
Nowhere, perhaps, is that sense of a lurking danger greater than in Europe, where officials estimate that several thousand people have gone to Syria and Iraq to join extremist groups, and some have tried to return and are perceived as coming back with violent intentions.
可能没有哪个地方比欧洲更能感受到一种若隐若现的危机感，据欧洲官员估计，已有数千人前往叙利亚和伊拉克加入极端组织，一些人还试图返回欧洲，并且据判断回来是为了开展暴力活动。
These countries are also facing a threat from homegrown terrorists, who never go abroad but plot attacks sitting at their computers, encouraged by handlers in Syria whom they have never met.
这些国家还面临本土恐怖分子带来的威胁，他们从未走出国门，却受到未曾谋面的叙利亚教官的怂恿，坐在电脑前策划袭击行动。
And nowhere do those factors play a stronger role than in France, which has the largest Muslim population in Europe and has seen more of its citizens go to Syria and Iraq than any other European country.
与其他地方相比，这些因素在法国发挥的作用更强一些。法国是欧洲穆斯林人口最多的国家，前往叙利亚和伊拉克的法国公民比其他欧洲国家多。
Now, human rights and civil liberties advocates say their worry is that if the French legislation is enacted, the country will be in the vanguard of repressive states like Russia that use surveillance powers to monitor not only potential terrorists but also anyone who is seen as a threat to the government.
如今，人权及公民自由倡导人士表示，他们担心如果这项法案得以颁布，法国将像俄罗斯一样成为专制国家的先锋，利用监控权力监视潜在的恐怖分子，以及任何政府认为对其构成威胁的人。
And because France is identified as a strong supporter of individual freedom and human rights, its plans to eavesdrop on cyber, cell and verbal communications could be used as a justification for other countries to take a similar path.
由于法国被认为是一个强烈支持个人自由和人权的国家，其他国家可以以法国在实施窃听网络、手机及语音通讯的计划为由，采取类似举措。
“My fear is that France is setting an example here and it encourages a race for the bottom on a global level,” said Cynthia Wong, a lawyer and senior Internet researcher for Human Rights Watch. “If France does it, why wouldn't every other government do the same thing?”
“我担心，法国会成为先例，促使世界各国展开竞次，”身为律师的人权观察(Human Rights Watch)高级网络研究员辛西娅·黄(Cynthia Wong)说。“如果法国这么做了，其他政府为何不效仿呢？”
Even so, some analysts and opponents of the new measures said they would not necessarily have prevented Chérif and Said Kouachi from massacring 12 people at the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.
一些分析人士及反对新举措的人士则表示，即便这么做了，也未必能够阻止赛义德·库瓦奇(Said Kouachi)和谢里夫·库瓦奇(Cherif Kouachi)在法国讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的办公室杀害12人。
Nor would the added measures probably have headed off Amedy Coulibaly from taking hostages days later at a kosher grocery store, killing four of them, in addition to a police officer, they said.
他们表示，增添的举措也不可能阻止艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)于几天之后在一家犹太洁食商店劫持人质，并杀害其中四名人质。
“The Kouachi brothers and Coulibaly were already targeted by the intelligence services,” Pierre-Olivier Sur, the head of the Paris bar association, who opposes the new measures.
反对新举措的巴黎律师公会会长皮埃尔-奥利维耶·苏尔(Pierre-Olivier Sur)说，“库瓦奇兄弟和古里巴利早就是情报机构的监控目标了。”