ISTANBUL — The French Army said Thursday that it had killed a leader of a terrorist group in the deserts of northern Mali.
伊斯坦布尔——法国陆军本周四表示，他们在马里北部的沙漠地区消灭了一名恐怖组织头目。
The announcement, two days after the release of the last French hostage held by militants, signaled that French special forces may now be free to pursue the terrorist group aggressively, unrestrained by worries about the safety of French captives.
这份公告在武装分子扣押的最后一名法国人质获释两天后发布，标志着法国特种部队现在无需再担心法国人质的安全，可以放心大胆地打击恐怖组织。
A spokesman for the Defense Ministry said French troops had killed Ahmed al-Tilemsi, who had a $5 million bounty on his head after the State Department listed him as a “specially designated global terrorist.”
美国国防部(Defense Ministry)发言人说，法军击毙了艾哈迈德·提雷姆西(Ahmed al-Tilemsi)，此人曾受到通缉，悬赏500万美元，属于美国财政部(Treasury Department)列出的“特殊列名的全球恐怖分子”。
Mr. Tilemsi was a leader of Al Mourabitoun, a group formed by extremists who split off from Al Qaeda two years ago. The extremists led a devastating attack on the In Amenas gas plant in Algeria in 2013 and killed at least 37 foreign hostages taken during the assault.
提雷姆西是独立纳赛尔主义运动(Al Mourabitoun)的领导者；该组织于两年前形成，成员是从基地组织分裂出来的极端分子。他们策划实施了2013年对阿尔及利亚因阿迈纳斯(In Amenas)气厂的毁灭性攻击，并至少杀害了37名在攻击中抓获的外国人质。
Col. Gilles Jaron, spokesman for the French Army’s chief of staff, confirmed that Mr. Tilemsi had been killed. He was one of a group of “a dozen terrorists” targeted by the raid; the others were “neutralized,” Colonel Jaron said, meaning that they were either killed or captured. He declined to give more specifics.
据法国陆军参谋长发言人吉勒斯·雅龙(Gilles Jaron)上校证实，提雷姆西已被击毙。这次袭击的目标是“12名恐怖分子”，他是其中之一；其他人也都遭到“清除”，雅龙上校说。这意味着他们不是丧生就是被俘。他拒绝透露更多的细节。
Al Mourabitoun is active in the Sahara and in the Sahel region to its south, where militants took advantage of a coup and political chaos in Mali to seize control of most of the northern half of the country in 2012. At the request of the Malian government, France sent thousands of troops in early 2013 to help push the insurgents back.
独立纳赛尔主义运动在撒哈拉及以南的萨赫勒地区活动，武装分子趁马里发生政变、政局混乱的机会，在2012年夺取了该国北部大部分地区的控制权。在马里政府的要求下，法国在2013年初派出数千人的军队，帮助逼退了叛乱分子。
That French-led effort succeeded in retaking two of the three main desert cities that had fallen to the militants, but the operation stalled in the province of Kidal. Analysts said the French Army was forced to tread very carefully there because of six French hostages who were believed to be held in the area.
在法国牵头的军事行动中，武装分子占据的三大沙漠城市被成功夺回了两座，但在基达尔省，军事行动止步不前。分析人士称，据信有六名法国人质在该地区遭到扣押，因此法军不得不谨慎以待。
That constraint was apparently lifted with the release of the last hostage, Serge Lazarevic, on Tuesday. “What is clear in my mind is that we are seeing this happen just days after Serge Lazarevic,” said Jean-Paul Rouiller, director of the Geneva Center for Training and Analysis of Terrorism, who tracks the jihadist groups in Mali. “The French military can finally take the gloves off.”
随着本周二最后一名人质塞尔日·拉扎雷维奇(Serge Lazarevic)获释，这种束缚显然已经解除。“塞尔日·拉扎雷维奇获释后仅仅数天就会发生这样的事，是在我们意料之中的，”日内瓦恐怖主义训练分析中心(Geneva Center for Training and Analysis of Terrorism)主任让-保罗·鲁耶(Jean-Paul Rouiller)说，他一直在关注马里圣战组织的动向。“法军终于可以卷起袖子了。”
It was not clear whether Mr. Tilemsi was involved in that attack. But according to the State Department, he has been linked to the kidnapping of several Europeans, including two Frenchmen who were abducted from a restaurant in Niger in 2011. Both of those hostages were killed.
目前还不清楚提雷姆西是否参与了那次攻击。但国务院说，他和几起欧洲人被绑架案有关，其中一起发生在2011年，两名法国人在尼日尔的一间餐厅遭到绑架。后来两人均遭杀害。