IN September 2012, the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, defying the advice of the French government, published several lewd caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad.
2012年9月，讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)不顾法国政府的建议，发表了几幅先知穆罕默德的猥亵漫画。
I was in Tunis that week. There were tanks and soldiers outside the mosques, and graffiti in English, French and Spanish calling for revolution, declaring war on the West and all those who hated Islam. A few days earlier the United States Embassy in Tunis had been attacked, and the American School burned down. And shortly before that, the American ambassador to Libya had been murdered by a jihadist militia.
那周我在突尼斯。清真寺外停着坦克、站着士兵，墙上涂满了用英语、法语、西班牙语呼吁革命的标语，向西方也向所有仇视伊斯兰的人宣战。几天前，美国驻突尼斯的使馆遭到了袭击，美国学校也被烧毁。再之前不久，美国驻利比亚大使被一个圣战武装组织杀害。
I spent a tense half-hour on the Avenue Habib Bourguiba, trying in vain, as a lone and very visible European, to hail a taxi before the curfew took effect. I cursed Charlie Hebdo for its willful and unnecessary provocations over the years: In 2006, the newspaper reprinted cartoons mocking Muhammad that had first appeared in a Danish newspaper, and in 2011, its offices were firebombed after it published a spoof issue, “Charia Hebdo,” a play on the word for Shariah law.
孤身一人而且明显是欧洲人，我在哈比卜·布尔吉巴大街(Avenue Habib Bourguiba)上的半小时里感到很紧张，打算在宵禁之前打一辆出租车，但却打不到。我心中咒骂了《查理周报》多年来恣意妄为且毫无必要的挑衅：2006年，这个报纸转载了首先在一家丹麦报纸上刊登的嘲讽穆罕默德的漫画；2011年，该报出版了一期戏仿刊《沙里亚周报》(Charia Hebdo)，刊名用“伊斯兰教法”(Shariah law)玩了一把文字游戏，之后该报的办公室遭到了燃烧瓶袭击。
But, like everyone else in Paris, where I live, I was shocked to the core when I heard about the killings of 12 people at the offices of Charlie Hebdo, a 20-minute walk from my own office, on Wednesday morning.
但就像其他所有巴黎居民一样，生活在巴黎的我，在得知周三早上《查理周报》的办公室有12人遭到杀害之后，也震惊到了骨子里。那里距离我自己的办公室步行只要20分钟。
I first became aware that something was wrong when I noticed heavily armed police officers and soldiers at every corner and cars being towed by military vehicles. I stopped for coffee on the Rue de Grenelle and everybody was talking at once and staring at the TV as it showed footage of the massacre, in which two police officers were killed, as well as the magazine’s editorial director, Stéphane Charbonnier, and several cartoonists.
我最初意识到出了状况，是因为我注意到每个街角都有全副武装的警察和士兵，军用车辆则把汽车拖走。我在格荷涅尔街驻足片刻喝了杯咖啡，所有人都在一边交谈一边盯着电视，屏幕上正在播放杀戮的画面，两名警察、主编斯特凡·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)，以及若干名漫画家已被杀害。
“This is just another stage,” the guy next to me said.
“这只是另一个阶段，”我身旁的男子对我说。
“Another stage in what?” I said.
“什么另一个阶段？”我问。
“The war against the Arabs,” he replied.
“对抗阿拉伯人的战争，”他回答道。
It has to be said that Charlie Hebdo is an unlikely victim of such unjustified violence. For most Parisians these days, the magazine is a quaint relic of the ’60s and ’70s that has long since lost its power to shock. Only the day before the killings, I had noticed on a newsstand a recent front cover of the magazine that showed a goofy-looking Virgin Mary giving birth to an even goofier-looking Christ. I shrugged and walked on, reflecting on how few people read the magazine these days, how it had only just begun to overcome its money troubles, and what a museum piece it had become.
必须说，《查理周报》在这种不公的暴力中成为受害者很出人意料。现在对多数巴黎人而言，这份报纸已经成了60、70年代的古旧遗物，早已失去了令人震惊的力量。就在杀戮发生之前一天，我在一个报摊上看到了最近一期报纸的头版，看起来很滑稽的圣母玛利亚，正在生更加滑稽的耶稣基督。我耸耸肩，一边继续往前走，一边想现在还在读这份报纸的人恐怕少之又少，它才刚刚克服了财政问题，现在几乎成了博物馆的藏品。
To some extent, this was reflected in the ages of two prominent figures who were killed: the brilliant and much-loved cartoonists Jean Cabut (or Cabu) and Georges Wolinski were, respectively, 76 and 80. Most important, they belonged to the generation of May 1968 — the generation that had revolted against the heavy hand of Charles de Gaulle’s paternalism with a belief in unlimited liberty, unrestrained sexual behavior, drug taking and, above all, the freedom to mock all forms of moral and religious authority.
在一定程度上，两名被害的著名人物的年龄就反映了这一点：受人爱戴的出色漫画家让·卡布（Jean Cabut，笔名“卡布”[Cabu]）和乔治·沃林斯基(Georges Wolinski)分别是76岁和80岁。最重要的是，他们属于1968年5月学生运动的那一代人。他们反抗夏尔·戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)父权式的强硬统治，崇尚无限制的自由、无节制的性和毒品，最重要的是，嘲讽所有形式的道德和宗教权威的自由。
Charlie Hebdo’s relentless pursuit of provocation — or “la provoc” in slangy French — belongs to a very Parisian tradition. It dates to before the French Revolution, when it was termed “L’esprit frondeur,” or “slingshot wit.” (A “fronde” was a catapult used to hurl stones at the king in times of insurrection.)
《查理周报》不懈地追求挑衅，用俚俗的法语词说就是“la provoc”。这是一种十分巴黎的传统，可以追溯到法国大革命之前，当时的说法叫作“弹弓般的诙谐”(l’esprit frondeur)——“fronde”是发生起义时，用来朝国王扔石头的投射器。
What also made Charlie Hebdo, founded in 1970, so French was a militant, aggressive secularism. This again is an old tradition in French culture — historically, a way of policing the power of the Catholic Church. May ’68 was also the revolt of the young against the old, and anti-religious satire a key part of that revolt.
让创刊于1970年的《查理周报》如此法国的，是它好斗、激进的世俗主义。这也是法国文化中的一个老传统，历史上这是一种约束天主教会权力的方法。1968年的“五月风暴”也是年轻人针对老人的反抗，反宗教的讽刺是其中的关键成分。
But in contemporary France, the young rebels of ’68 have long since become the cultural establishment, even if they still espouse the leftist and libertarian ideals of their younger days. Charlie Hebdo, for all its vaunted anarchism, has been a member of the establishment for a very long time.
然而在当代法国，五月风暴时还年轻的反叛者，早已成为了文化上的权威，尽管他们仍然信奉年轻时那种左翼的、自由放任的理想。尽管《查理周报》因为其无政府主义而大受追捧，但它长期以来也已成为了既成秩序中的一员。
Or at least this is how the magazine is viewed out in the banlieues — the enormous and often wretched suburbs that surround all major French cities and that are home to a huge immigrant population, mainly from former French colonies in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. What is seen in the center of Paris as tweaking the nose of authority — religious or political — is seen out in the banlieues as the arrogance of those in power who can mock what they like, including deeply held religious beliefs, perhaps the only part of personal identity that has not been crushed or assimilated into mainstream French society.
至少住在郊区的人是这么想的——所有法国大城市周边都有这种巨大而且常常状况恶劣的郊区，这些区域聚集了人数众多的移民，主要来自法国在中东、非洲和亚洲的前殖民地。在巴黎市中心被认为是嘲讽宗教或政治权威的举动，在郊区却会被认为是当权者的傲慢，那些人可以信口开河地嘲讽他人，包括他人深信不疑的宗教信仰——这或许是个人身份当中，仅有的一块尚未被法国主流社会摧毁或同化的角落。