PARIS — French voters dealt a sharp setback to the far-right National Front in elections on Sunday, depriving the party of victory in any of the country’s 13 regions, according to projections based on exit polls.
巴黎——基于出口民调的预测显示，在周日的选举中，法国选民重挫极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)，令其在法国13个大区的选举中全部失利。
A week after the National Front came out on top in the first round of voting, France sent a far different message, with the party losing even in a northern region where its charismatic leader, Marine Le Pen, had been widely expected to win.
国民阵线在首轮投票中位居榜首，但一周之后，法国选民传达了完全不同的信号。即便是国民阵线具有魅力的领袖马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)也在她参选的一个北部大区失利，虽然人们普遍预计她将获胜。
The projections also showed the National Front being defeated in another of its strongest areas, in the south around Nice, where Ms. Le Pen’s 26-year-old niece Marion Maréchal Le Pen was on the ballot.
预测还显示，国民阵线也在它声势浩大的另一个地区败北，那就是勒庞26岁的外甥女玛丽安·马雷夏尔-勒庞(Marion Maréchal-Le Pen)参选的尼斯周围的一个南部大区。
If confirmed when all the votes have been counted, the projected results would confound expectations that the party, with its anti-immigrant, nativist message, was on the verge of an electoral breakthrough that could have added momentum and credibility to Ms. Le Pen’s hopes of winning the presidency in 2017.
如果所有选票的统计工作结束之后，这些预测得到了证实，那么国民阵线的希望恐将破灭。这个反移民的本土主义政党处于取得选举突破的边缘，本来有望为勒庞增添声势，助她在2017年赢得总统选举。
“I salute the voters who responded to the appeal to block the far right,” Prime Minister Manuel Valls of the governing Socialist party said in a speech Sunday night.
“我向那些响应号召阻止极右势力的选民致敬，”法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)在周日晚上的一次讲话中表示。他属于执政的社会党。
Polling had shown her party getting a strong boost from the terrorist attacks in Paris on Nov. 13, and the suspicion that two of the terrorists slipped into Europe with immigrants through Greece.
民调显示，在11月13日巴黎恐怖袭击事件发生后，人们怀疑其中有两名恐怖分子是和移民一起途经希腊潜入了欧洲，令国民阵线支持率大增。
For weeks the Front and its supporters have boasted that it is France’s leading party, and that the country had become a three-party system: left, right, and — in the Front’s own terminology — nationalist.
几周以来，国民阵线及其支持者都标榜它是法国的主要政党，而该国的政界体系已形成三足鼎力之势：左翼、右翼，以及——按国民阵线自己的说法——民族主义派。
But in the end, the results confirmed what an angry Ms. Le Pen herself declared in her concession speech Sunday: France is still a two-party country, those who are for the National Front, and those who are against it. Early results showed both the Socialists and the mainstream-right Republicans each taking five regions, with the others undecided.
但到最后，就像愤怒的勒庞在周日的败选演讲中所说的那样，投票结果证明了法国仍然只有两个派别，一个支持国民阵线，另一个则反对它。初步结果显示，社会党和主流的右翼党派共和党各自在五个大区获胜，其他几个大区仍在等待结果。
“We really are in a bi-party system,” Ms. Le Pen told her supporters Sunday.
“我们确实处在两个派别的体系中，”勒庞周日对支持者说。
In the northern region where she was on the ballot, Ms. Le Pen managed only about 42 percent of the vote, according to early projections, to the mainstream right’s 57 percent.
初步预测显示，在勒庞参选的北部大区，她仅赢得了42%左右的选票，而主流右翼候选人获得了57%的选票。
“I thank the voters who have protected our beautiful region,” said the right’s candidate in the north, Xavier Bertrand, who beat Ms. Le Pen.
“感谢选民保护了我们这个美丽的大区，”北部大区的右翼候选人格扎维埃·贝特朗(Xavier Bertrand)在击败勒庞后表示。
In the first round of voting last week, the National Front came in first in six of the 13 regions, alarming France’s political and media establishment. With 28 percent of the vote, the far-right party achieved its best result ever, three percentage points better than in European elections last year, its previous best.
在前一周的首轮投票中，国民阵线在13个大区中的6个位居第一，引起了法国政界当权派和主流媒体的警觉。28%的得票率比去年欧洲议会选举时高出3个百分点，刷新了这个极右翼政党的最佳战绩。
Fearing a Front takeover in two regions where Socialist candidates finished third — the north around Lille, where Ms. Le Pen was running, and around Nice, where her niece was the top candidate — the Socialist Party withdrew its candidates for the second round. The hope was that Socialist voters would then block the Front by voting for the mainstream conservative Republicans.
在社会党候选人排在第三位的两个大区——位于北部的勒庞参选的里尔周边地区，以及她的外甥女为热门人选的尼斯周边地区——由于担心国民阵线会最终胜出，社会党在第二轮中选举中撤回了候选人。他们希望的是，社会党选民届时会投票给主流保守派别共和党，以防国民阵线获胜。
That gamble apparently paid off.
这种做法似乎见到了成效。