This week, a French artist living in Shanghai named Alexandre Ouairy received a wave of press attention for revealing that he had been exhibiting under the Chinese pseudonym Tao Hongjing for the past decade. According to news reports, he had assumed the pseudonym a decade ago, based on a suggestion by his gallerist, in order to cash in on the market there for Chinese contemporary art, a goldmine unavailable to an artist of French descent living in China. Now, on the eve of two solo shows — at Red Gate Gallery in Beijing and Shun Gallery in Shanghai — Mr. Ouairy was finally coming clean, acknowledging that the whole masquerade had been a “conceptual art project.”
本周，居住在上海的法国艺术家亚历山大·乌瑞(Alexandre Ouairy)引发媒体关注，因为他披露自己过去10年一直以陶弘景的名字在展出作品。据媒体报道，10年前，根据和他签约的画廊主的建议，乌瑞开始用这个名字，目的是利用正在兴起的中国当代艺术热潮获取好处，而一个居住在中国的法国艺术家是无法从进入这个金矿的。如今，在即将推出分别由北京红门和上海熏依社策展的两个个展前夕，乌瑞终于向外界坦白，宣称整个假扮事件原是一项“概念艺术项目”。
But an interview with the artist this week by telephone, and with one of the dealers representing his work, reveals that the news coverage greatly exaggerates the extent of his ruse, and a little market research reveals that his reported success as a Chinese artist is middling at best.
但是本周对这位艺术家进行电话采访，并与一位代理他作品的经纪人谈话之后，时报记者发现，之前的报道极度夸大了这一事件中的计谋成分，只需做小小的市场研究就可以发现，报道中提到的他作为一名中国艺术家取得的成功，其实至多只能算中等水平。
“At the beginning, the first year or two, only the gallery and myself knew that I was Tao Hongjing,” Mr. Ouairy said by phone from Shanghai, “but after that, it was always revealed that this was a project by a French artist.” Brian Wallace, the owner of Red Gate Gallery, which is sponsoring the current exhibition, “Death is Going Home,” said that he had known that Tao Hongjing was the French artist ever since he collected his work almost a decade ago. “Everyone knew that Tao Hongjing was Alexandre Ouairy and that Alexandre Ouairy was Tao Hongjing,” he said.
“最初一两年，只有画廊和我本人知道我是陶弘景，”身在上海的乌瑞在电话中讲道，“但之后，我们总会对外表示，这是一个法国艺术家的艺术项目。”正在策划举办其中一个展览“死若归乡”的红门画廊的创始人布赖恩·华莱士(Brian Wallace)表示，他大约在10年前收藏了陶弘景的作品，之后就知道他个法国艺术家。“大家都知道陶弘景就是亚历山大·乌瑞，亚历山大·乌瑞就是陶弘景，”他说。
It is unsurprising that the Western press would leap on a story of a European artist who appeared to adopt a Chinese identity. After all, most recently, Michael Derrick Hudson, an American poet, posed as Yi-Fen Chou to land a coveted spot in this year’s “The Best American Poetry” anthology. But transforming identity is not as easy as it seems, even in China, a country with an unmatched reputation for knockoffs.
西方媒体会一拥而上报道一个似乎以中国身份示人的欧洲艺术家的故事，并不奇怪。毕竟，最近就有美国诗人迈克尔·德里克·赫德森(Michael Derrick Hudson)，为使自己的作品入选《美国最佳诗作》(The Best American Poetry)而特意采用周一峰的笔名。但转换身份并不像表面看来那么容易，即使是在中国这个有着当世无双的仿冒之名的国家。
Mr. Ouairy, 36, began his project in 2004 when he was a very young struggling artist in Shanghai, having arrived in China from Lyon four years earlier. Though some reports claim that adopting the pseudonym Tao Hongjing jump-started his career, he is not well known, even now, in Chinese art circles. He has shown with galleries in Shanghai, including the short-lived Gallery 1918 and also Studio Rouge, located in Moganshan Lu, the city’s art district. But neither of these establishments carry major weight, nor does Shun Gallery, the artist’s present dealer. In a scene that has expanded exponentially in the past decade with several art fairs and more than six new contemporary art museums in Shanghai alone, Mr. Ouairy remains a minor player, albeit one who claims his work sells for as much as $30,000.
现年36岁的乌瑞在2004年开启了这一项目，当时他从里昂来中国不过四年，是一名正在上海挣扎求存的年轻艺术家。有些报道称，用了陶弘景这个名字后，他的事业开始有起色，但就算是现在，他在中国艺术圈里也算不上出名。他先后和几家上海画廊合作过，其中包括开办时间不长就关闭的1918画廊，以及位于上海艺术机构云集的莫干山路的红寨当代艺术画廊。但这两家都算不上重量级的艺术机构，现在代理他的作品的熏衣社画廊也算不上。过去10年，中国当代艺术市场规模呈几何级数增长，单单上海就出现好几个艺术博览会，还新增了不止六座当代艺术博物馆。但在这里，乌瑞依然只是个小角色，尽管他称自己的作品已卖到3万美元的价位。
Several years ago, another Shanghai artist, Xu Zhen, who shows with James Cohan Gallery in New York, famously said, “Anyone can be a Chinese artist — an American can be Zhang Xiaogang,” referring to a top-selling art star, known for his solemn portraits of Cultural Revolution survivors. To underscore his point, Mr. Xu created a company, MadeIn, which produced a show of “contemporary Arab art,” fooling visitors into believing that they were seeing works by Middle Eastern artists.
几年前，另一位上海艺术家、由纽约的詹姆斯·科汉画廊(James Cohan Gallery )代理作品的徐振说过一句名言，“任何人都能成为中国艺术家——西方艺术家也可以成为张晓刚。”张晓刚是极受艺术市场追捧的艺术明星，因创作了风格严肃的文革幸存者肖像作品而为人所知。为了突显这一论断，徐振创立了一家名为“没顶”的公司，制作了一批“当代阿拉伯艺术品”，让参观者误以为自己看到的是中东艺术家创作的作品。
It is perhaps the ultimate twist that an artist from France, once the bastion of modern art, now thinks he needs to fake a Chinese identity in order to gain recognition and acclaim. This week, Red Gate’s website states that the current exhibition is a “curated show of Tao Hongjing’s work throughout the last 10 years of his lifetime, where he reflects on money, fame and life.” Now that Mr. Ouairy has killed off his alter-ego, it remains to be seen whether either of them will meet with success in this posthumous guise.
整件事最为反讽之处或许在于，一名来自曾经的现代艺术堡垒——法国的艺术家，现在却认为自己需要伪造中国身份，才能获得认可和赞誉。本周，红门画廊在网站上如此介绍正在推出的展览，“此次展览呈现艺术家陶弘景最后10年创作的作品。这10年间，艺术家不断反思金钱、声名与生命的关系。”现在，乌瑞已经“杀死”了另外的一个自己，他或者这个陶弘景今后是否能够获得成功，还有待观察。