PARIS — French warplanes struck Islamic State militants in Syria on Sunday, a French government official said, two days after attackers linked to the terrorist group carried out a coordinated assault on Paris that killed 129 people.
巴黎——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)对巴黎发动有组织的袭击，造成129人遇难两天后，一名法国政府官员说，法国战机周日在叙利亚境内打击了这个恐怖组织的武装分子。
Prior to the attack on Paris, France had been sparing in its strikes against targets in Syria.
在巴黎本次遭受袭击之前，法国对叙利亚境内目标进行的打击次数较少。
News reports in France said the airstrikes were focused on Raqqa, the city in northern Syria that is the self-proclaimed capital of the Islamic State.
法国媒体报道称，空袭的重点是叙利亚北部城市拉卡，即伊斯兰国自称的首都。
The attackers in Friday’s terrorist assault in Paris communicated at some point beforehand with known members of the Islamic State in Syria, officials on both sides of the Atlantic say, adding evidence to the assertions that the radical group coordinated or helped carry out the attacks rather than simply inspired them.
美国和欧洲官员说，上周五巴黎恐怖袭击案发生之前，袭击者曾与叙利亚境内的已知伊斯兰国成员进行过联系，这进一步证明了伊斯兰国参与协调或是帮助实施了袭击，而不仅仅是起到了激发作用。
President François Hollande of France has characterized the attacks as “an act of war” carried out by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. He provided no specific information, but the Islamic State released statements on Saturday claiming responsibility for the attacks, part of increasing indications that the group is becoming more capable of extending its reach far beyond its base in Syria and Iraq.
法国总统奥朗德称这些袭击是伊斯兰国发起的“战争行动”。他没有提供具体信息，但伊斯兰国上周六已经发表声明对这些袭击负责。伊斯兰国又叫ISIS或ISIL，本次袭击和其他一些的证据越来越清晰地显示，它的行动能力已经远不仅限于其在叙利亚和伊拉克的据点。
“It is an act of war that was prepared, organized and planned from abroad, with complicity from the inside, which the investigation will help establish,” Mr. Hollande said on Saturday.
“这是有准备、有组织、有计划、有内应的战争行动，调查将有助于明确真相，”奥朗德上周六说。
While the information made available so far about the links between the Islamic State and the Paris attackers was not definitive, it suggested at a minimum that the assailants had not acted totally on their own.
虽然巴黎袭击者和伊斯兰国之间的联系迄今为止还不太确凿，但至少情况已经表明，本次袭击并不完全是袭击者自发开展的行动。
Describing the case for the group’s role, American and French officials said the attackers had operated with high levels of sophistication, beyond what would be expected of a plot in which the assailants were merely inspired to act by a radical group rather than trained or equipped by it.
美、法国官员谈到伊斯兰国在本次事件中的作用时说，袭击组织得非常严密，如果袭击者仅仅是受到伊斯兰国的激发，而没有从伊斯兰国那里获得训练或装备，应该达不到这样的程度。
The attackers are believed to have communicated using encryption technology, according to European officials who had been briefed on the investigation but were not authorized to speak publicly. It was not clear whether the encryption was part of widely used communications tools, like WhatsApp, which the authorities have a hard time monitoring, or something more elaborate. Intelligence officials have been pressing for more leeway to counter the growing use of encryption.
了解调查进展的欧洲官员表示，袭击者的通讯据信使用了加密技术，这些官员没有获得公开讨论此事的授权。目前尚不清楚，这种加密技术属于WhatsApp等当局很难监控的流行通讯工具，还是更为复杂的工具。情报官员一直在争取获得更多运作空间，以应对加密技术的日益普及。
The disciplined way some of the attackers handled themselves during the assault and evidence of some military-style training — for example, having one attacker continue shooting while another reloaded his weapon — also suggested that the plot involved considerable planning and input from an organized group, a French official said.
一名法国官员表示，袭击者在袭击事件中表现出的纪律性，以及接受过一定军事化训练的迹象——例如一名袭击者在装填弹药时，另一人继续射击——都说明这是一个有组织的团体实施的阴谋，有过相当程度的计划与投入。
Following the attacks, intelligence and law enforcement agencies reviewed intercepted communications and concluded that the attackers had been in touch with members of the Islamic State in Syria, American and French officials said.
美国及法国官员表示，袭击事件发生后，情报及执法部门再次查看了截获的通讯信息，断定袭击者与叙利亚的伊斯兰国成员保持联系。
The Paris attack has forced a broad reassessment in the West of the Islamic State’s strategy and capabilities. The group has also claimed responsibility for the crash of a Russian charter plane carrying vacationers home from a resort in Egypt, killing all 224 people aboard.
巴黎袭击事件迫使西方从总体上重新评估伊斯兰国的策略与能力。该组织还宣称对俄罗斯包机坠毁事件负责，这架载有度假者的飞机在从埃及度假胜地飞回俄罗斯时坠毁，导致机上224人全部遇难。