PARIS — Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets of Paris to join top French officials and world leaders for a rally and march under extraordinary security in a government-sponsored show of unity and defiance after a series of terrorist attacks.
巴黎——数十万人涌上巴黎街头，参加了由法国政要和世界各国领导人带领的集会游行，这是一系列恐怖袭击之后，政府主办的一次展示团结和反抗的活动，政府对活动采取了特别的安全措施。
The somber march began shortly after 3 p.m., with a vanguard of dark-coated leaders marching arm-in-arm down the broad Boulevard Voltaire. Familes of the victims walked grim-faced, some wearing Charlie Hebdo headbands to commemorate the journalists murdered on Wednesday.
心情沉重的游行于下午3点过后不久开始，在宽广的伏尔泰大道上，身穿深色大衣、挽着手臂的领导人走在队伍的前列。罹难者家属表情严肃地走着，有人戴着《查理周刊》的头带，以纪念上周三被杀的记者。
The French government mobilized hundreds of military forces, police and anti-terrorism squads to provide security at the rally. In the area around Place de la République, where the march was starting, snipers could be seen on rooftops, and security officers were seen checking sewers for explosives. The police swarmed the area, and several subway stops and streets were blocked off.
法国政府出动了数百名军队、警察和反恐小组人员，为集会提供安全保障。在游行起点的共和国广场附近，可以看到屋顶上的狙击手，还能看到保安人员在检查下水道中是否有爆炸物。到处都是警察，附近的几个地铁站和几条街道也被封锁。
Officials said that public transport in Paris would be free all day Sunday to encourage participation in the march.
官员说，巴黎的公共交通周日全天免费，以鼓励人们参加游行。
At the Place de la République, demonstrators waved French flags and several climbed the imposing Statue of the Republic, a symbol of the French Revolution, and wielded an inflated pencil, symbolizing solidarity with the fallen cartoonists at Charlie Hebdo, the weekly magazine that was attacked last week.
在共和国广场，示威者打着法国国旗，有人爬上了法国大革命的标记、壮观的共和国雕像，还有人挥舞着充气铅笔，以示对《查理周报》罹难漫画家的支持，该报纸上周遭到袭击。
People displayed flags from across Europe and many held signs saying, “I am Charlie.” Others held up caricatures from the magazine.
人们展示了来自欧洲各国的旗帜，许多人手持写有“我是查理”的标牌，还有人举着该杂志的漫画。
Prime Minister Manuel Valls declared on Saturday that France was at “war” with radical Islam after harrowing attacks that claimed the lives of 17 victims. Three gunmen who said they were acting on behalf of Al Qaeda and other radical Islamist groups were killed by the police on Friday in two separate raids. One gunman had taken hostages at a Jewish supermarket in Paris, and the two others had holed themselves up in a print shop in Dammartin-en-Goële, northeast of the French capital.
在恐怖袭击剥夺了至少17名罹难者的生命之后，法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)周六宣布法国正与激进伊斯兰主义“开战”。自称其行动代表基地组织和其他激进伊斯兰组织的三名枪手，上周五在两个分别行动中被警方击毙。其中一名枪手曾在巴黎的一个犹太教食品超市劫持人质，另两人曾躲藏在法国首都东北部达马丁-高尔(Dammartin-en-Goële)的一座印刷厂里。
Mr. Valls called on the French to take to the streets to show solidarity with the victims and to stand behind the idea that republican values of free speech and freedom of expression are the most potent bulwark against terrorists.
瓦尔斯呼吁法国人走上街头，声援罹难者，同时表示对一种观念的支持立场，即共和主义价值观中的言论自由与表达自由，是抵制恐怖分子的最强有力的防御。
“Indignation. Resistance. Solidarity. I am Charlie” read an invitation to the event that was circulating on social media. The organizers said the rally was to show support for freedom of the press and freedom of speech, and to reinforce the message that France and the French would not be cowed by terrorists.
社交媒体上流传的一份活动邀请上写道：“愤慨。抵制。团结。我是查理。”主办方表示，集会是为了显示对出版自由和言论自由的支持，增强法国和法国人不会被恐怖分子吓倒的信念。
Officials from across Europe and elsewhere, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu of Turkey, were in Paris to attend the rally.
来自欧洲和其他地区国家的官员参加了巴黎的集会，包括德国总理安格拉·默克尔( Angela Merkel)、英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)，以及土耳其总理艾哈迈德·达武特奥卢( Ahmet Davutoglu)。
In a rare display of unity, the president of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel also participated.
巴勒斯坦民族权力机构主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)和以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)也参加了这次活动，十分难得地展现出了团结。
On Sunday morning, the French Interior Ministry held what it described as a security summit meeting, bringing together top intelligence and law enforcement officials from across Europe and North America to discuss ways to combat and contain terrorism. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. was among those attending.
法国内政部周日上午举行了其所称的安全峰会，来自欧洲和北美的高级情报官员和执法官员到会讨论了打击和遏制恐怖主义的方法。与会者中有美国司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)。
Mr. Holder announced that the White House would convene an international forum on Feb. 18 to discuss new means of countering terrorism. The White House, in a statement, said the meeting would address domestic and international measures “to prevent violent extremists and their supporters from radicalizing, recruiting, or inspiring individuals or groups in the United States and abroad to commit acts of violence.”
霍尔德宣布，白宫将在2月18日召集一个国际论坛，讨论打击恐怖主义的新办法。白宫在一份声明中说，论坛将讨论“防止暴力极端分子及其支持者在美国和外国将个人或团体激进化、招募或激励他们采取暴力行动”的国内和国际措施。
On Sunday, counterterrorist officials in France said they were continuing to investigate links between Amedy Coulibaly and the Kouachi brothers, the source of their funding and weapons, and whether the suspects were part of a dormant sleeper cell that had been activated.
法国反恐官员周日说，他们正在继续调查艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)与库瓦奇(Kouachi)兄弟的联系，他们的资金和武器来源，以及这些犯罪嫌疑人是否是一个曾暂停活动、最近激活的隐藏小组的一部分。
The investigation is a challenge for French law enforcement officials, who are already grappling with the more than 1,000 French citizens who last year went or planned to join jihadists in Syria and Iraq. The events of the past week appear to confirm fears that some could return to wage attacks on French soil.
此次调查对法国执法官员来说是一大挑战，他们已在设法解决1000多名法国公民去年前往、或打算前往叙利亚和伊拉克加入圣战分子行列的问题。上周发生的事件似乎证实了人们的恐惧，即有些人可能会返回法国，在本土进行袭击。
The attacks have spread alarm among the Jewish community in France, which was already reeling from a spate of anti-Semitic attacks in the country, including on synagogues and Jewish shops last year, at the time of an Israeli incursion in Gaza. On Sunday, President François Hollande, who has labeled the attack at the kosher supermarket a horrific act of anti-Semitism, said he would meet with Jewish leaders at a rally after the main march.
袭击在法国的犹太人社区进一步引起警报，该社区的人已因法国各地接连发生的反犹事件而不安，包括去年以色列进入加沙地带期间，对犹太教堂和犹太人商店的袭击。周日，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)表示，他将在主要的游行活动结束后，与参加另一个集会的犹太领导人会晤，此前，奥朗德已把对犹太超市的袭击称为令人震惊的反犹行为。
In a meeting on Sunday with Roger Cukierman, president of the Representative Council of Jewish Institutions in France, Mr. Hollande said that the government would protect Jewish schools and synagogues with army troops if necessary, and that it was committed to the security of France’s 500,000 Jews.
奥朗德在周日与法国犹太机构代表理事会主席罗杰·库其尔曼(Roger Cukierman)会面时说，如有必要，政府将派军队去保护犹太学校和犹太教堂，并表示，政府坚定地保护法国50万犹太人的安全。
Thousands of Jews left France last year for Israel amid concerns about security, and in recent days Israeli officials have said that the recent attacks could prompt a new wave of French Jews arriving in the country. On Saturday, Mr. Netanyahu said that Israel was the home of French Jews, and on Sunday morning, as he was leaving Israel for the march in Paris, he repeated his invitation to French Jews to move to Israel.
数千名犹太人出于对安全的担心，去年离开法国前往以色列，以色列官员在最近几天表示，不久前的袭击可能会带来一个法国犹太人出走以色列的新浪潮。内塔尼亚胡周六说，以色列是法国犹太人的家园，他还在周日早上离开以色列前往巴黎参加游行之际重复了他的邀请，让法国犹太人迁往以色列。
Mr. Netanyahu said that he would attend a second rally, of Paris’s Jewish community, in the evening.
内塔尼亚胡说，他将参加当晚在巴黎犹太社区举行的第二个集会。
“I will say there that any Jew who wants to immigrate to Israel will be received here with open arms,” he said.
他说，“我会在那里说，任何愿意移民到以色列的犹太人都将受到我们的热情欢迎。”
Mr. Netanyahu said Sunday afternoon that the four Jewish victims of the kosher supermarket siege would be buried in Jerusalem on Tuesday, The Associated Press reported.
据美联社报道，内塔尼亚胡周日下午说，在犹太教食品超市被围困中死亡的四位犹太罹难者将于周二在耶路撒冷下葬。