PARIS — Shock over France’s recent expulsion of a 19-year-old Armenian student and a 15-year-old Kosovar girl, whom the police took off a school bus so that she and her family could be sent back to Kosovo, gathered momentum on Thursday with protests by students condemning the deportations and calling for the resignation of the interior minister.
巴黎 — 法国最近将一名19岁的亚美尼亚学生和一位15岁的科索沃女孩驱逐出境，为了能把那个女孩和其家人一同送回科索沃，警方直接把她带离了校车。此事震惊了整个社会，引发的愤怒情绪愈演愈烈，周四，学生群体中爆发了抗议活动，谴责驱逐事件，并要求内政部长辞职。
The minister, Manuel Valls, a member of the Socialist government of President François Hollande, has been a strong proponent in particular of deporting the Roma. But Mr. Valls has also removed others who lacked proper immigration papers, a policy also followed by the previous government, which was led by the conservatives.
作为弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)总统领导的社会党(Socialist)政府的成员，内政部长曼努埃尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)一直强力倡导遣返罗姆人(Roma)。但他也同样赶走了其他缺少完备移民文件的群体，而且保守派领导的上届政府也一直遵循这样的政策。
On Thursday, it appeared that the government was questioning Mr. Valls’s judgment, at the least, in allowing the police to pull children out of school to be deported.
周四，政府似乎开始质疑瓦尔斯的判断力，至少是对允许警方把孩子带离学校进行遣返这件事表示质疑。
“If they stopped a school bus to seize a child in front of her classmates, then it’s extremely shocking,” said a government spokeswoman, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, referring to the case of the Kosovar girl.
谈及科索沃女孩的案例，政府发言人纳贾提·瓦洛-贝勒卡西姆(Najat Vallaud-Belkacem)表示，“假如他们真的拦下了一辆校车，在其他同学的面前带走一个孩子，那真的是令人发指。”
The racial politics surrounding the Roma minority in France shadowed the expulsion of the Kosovar girl, Leonarda Dibrani, who is also Roma, but not the case of the Armenian student, Khatchik Kachatryan. He was deported Saturday.
遣返科索沃女孩莱奥娜达·迪布拉尼(Leonarda Dibrani)是在围绕法国罗姆族少数民族出现的种族政治的大背景下发生的，但亚美尼亚学生卡奇克·卡沙特里扬(Khatchik Kachatryan)的情况并不适用。卡沙特里扬已于周六被遣返。
Many had expected the government of Mr. Hollande to adopt a less confrontational approach to France’s troubles with the Roma than the previous government of Nicolas Sarkozy, but there have been few changes. The European Union has expressed dismay and threatened sanctions after reports of the deportations.
许多人都曾以为，比起尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)领导的上一届政府，奥朗德政府处理法国罗姆人问题时会采取一种对抗性较小的方式。但目前看来，基本没什么变化。驱逐事件被曝光后，欧盟(European Union)表达了震惊，并扬言要对法国予以制裁。
Most of the Roma, a minority of 20,000 in France, come from Bulgaria and Romania and live on the outskirts of cities, often in makeshift camps, and they sometimes travel from place to place. Some have been accused of running criminal gangs of young girls and children who prey on tourists, especially in Paris, Marseille and Lyons.
法国境内约有2万罗姆人，他们中的大部分都来自保加利亚和罗马尼亚，居住在城郊地区的临时营地，常常四处流浪。其中某些人被指责组织年轻女孩和儿童进行犯罪活动，专对游客下手，特别是在巴黎、马赛和里昂。
The Interior Ministry has begun an investigation into the case of Ms. Dibrani, who was expelled on Oct. 9. The findings were expected Friday, and the government has promised to annul the expulsion if irregularities are found.
内政部长已经就迪布拉尼10月9日被驱逐一事启动了一项调查。预计周五就会出结果。政府方面也已经承诺，一旦发现违规行为，便会废止驱逐令。
Mr. Valls has been increasingly outspoken about the social difficulties that Roma immigrants pose. In September, his remark in a television interview that “the majority must be returned to the borders” set off a wave of criticism. In the interview, with BFM Television, he said that France was “not here to welcome these populations.”
对于罗姆族移民引发的社会问题，瓦尔斯已经越来越直言不讳。9月，他在电视访谈中发出的“必须把他们中的多数人驱逐出境”的言论，引发了一波批评的浪潮。接受BFM电视采访时，他宣称法国“不会欢迎这些人”。
He said in another interview that “only a minority” of the Roma could be integrated into French society.
他还在另一次采访中表示，罗姆人中“只有一小部分”可以融入法国社会。
His candor, more than the government’s expulsion policy, shocked many people. Polls showed that a majority of French people agreed with him that the Roma should be expelled, and Mr. Valls enjoys wide popularity.
他的坦诚比法国政府的驱逐政策还要令人震惊。民意调查显示，大多数法国人都和他意见一致，认为应该驱逐罗姆人。瓦尔斯受到普遍欢迎。
Despite the pervasive image here of the Roma as petty criminals and pickpockets, it did not reflect the situation of Ms. Dibrani, who was forced to get off a school bus and into a police car in front of her classmates, leaving some thinking that she had committed a crime, her teachers said.
尽管法国人通常觉得，罗姆人总会干些小偷小摸的事，但这并不适用于迪布拉尼。她的老师表示，当着同学们的面，迪布拉尼被迫走下校车、坐进警车里，这让一些人以为她犯了罪。
Ms. Dibrani had lived in France for nearly five years and spoke “perfect French,” said her teachers, who wrote an open letter of protest over the incident that was posted online by the Network for Education Without Borders, a group that defends the right of immigrant children to study in France.
迪布拉尼已经在法国住了五年，她的老师们表示，她说一口“流利的法语”，这些老师写了一封公开信，对驱逐事件表示抗议。这封信已经被法国捍卫移民儿童受教育权的团体无国界教育网(Network for Education Without Borders)在线发表。
“We are profoundly shocked by the methods used to send back the children of the Roma minority to countries they do not know and where they cannot speak the language,” wrote the teachers, from André Malraux Junior High School and Toussaint L’Ouverture High School in Levier, where Ms. Dibrani was a student.
“把罗姆族孩子送回他们毫不了解的国家，他们也不懂当地的语言，我们对这种做法感到极度震惊。”迪布拉尼曾经就读的安德烈·马尔罗初级中学(André Malraux Junior High School)和杜桑·卢维杜尔高级中学(Toussaint L’Ouverture High School )的老师们在公开信中写道。
Richard Moyon, a spokesman for the Network for Education Without Borders, said that his organization’s work had sharply reduced the number of families with children in school who were expelled from the country. But such expulsions, he said, were “irresponsible” of the government because they could lead to a more severe policy on deportations if a more conservative government came to power.
无国界教育网的发言人里夏尔·穆瓦永(Richard Moyon)称，通过该组织的努力，有孩子在校读书的家庭被驱逐出境的情况已大大减少。但他表示，现任政府“不负责任”，因为如果更保守的政府上台，这样的驱逐先例会导致更严厉的遣返政策。