PARIS — French Jews, already feeling under siege by anti-Semitism, say the trauma of the terrorist attacks last week has left them scared, angry, unsure of their future in France and increasingly willing to consider conflict-torn Israel as a safer refuge.
巴黎——对于已经感受到反犹主义困扰的法国犹太人说，上周恐怖袭击的创伤更让他们害怕和气愤，也让他们对自己在法国的未来没有把握，他们越来越愿意考虑前往以色列，尽管那里冲突不断，但仍不失为一个犹太人的安全避难所。
“It is a war here,” said Jacqueline Cohen, owner of an art store on Rue des Rosiers in a Jewish neighborhood lined with falafel and Judaica shops where many businesses were closed Monday morning. “After what happened, we feel safer in the center of Tel Aviv than we do here in the heart of Paris.”
“这里就像在打仗，”犹太居住区的蔷薇街上一家艺术店的店主杰奎琳·科恩(Jacqueline Cohen)说，这条街的两边有许多中东食品炸豆丸子店和犹太教传统用品店，周一上午，许多商店都没开门。“发生了这些事情之后，我们觉得在特拉维夫市中心，比我们在巴黎心脏的这个地方更安全。”
“In Israel, there is an Iron Dome to protect us,” she added, referring to Israel’s antimissile defense system. “Here we feel vulnerable and exposed. We are afraid to send our children to school.”
“在以色列，有一个铁穹保护我们，”她接下来说，她指的是以色列的反导弹防御系统。“在这里，我们感到孤立无助。我们不敢送孩子去学校。”
Residents said their worry intensified after Friday’s terrorist attack, when a heavily armed Frenchman, Amedy Coulibaly, stormed the kosher Hyper Cacher supermarket in Porte de Vincennes in eastern Paris. Four hostages were killed in that episode. So acute is the sense of insecurity among Jews that Serge Cwajgenbaum, secretary general of the European Jewish Congress, said the four supermarket victims were to be buried in Jerusalem on Tuesday, partly because of fears that their graves would be desecrated in France.
居民说，他们的担忧在上周五的恐怖袭击发生后加剧，当时，一个名叫艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)的全副武装的法国人，突袭了巴黎东部文森斯门(Porte de Vincennes)地铁站附近的犹太教食品超市，导致四名人质被杀。犹太人的不安全感如此强烈，以至于欧洲犹太人大会(European Jewish Congress)秘书长塞格·科瓦岑堡姆(Serge Cwajgenbaum)表示，超市的四名遇难者之所以周二在耶路撒冷下葬，部分是因为担心他们的坟墓在法国会被亵渎。
Mr. Cwajgenbaum said that the attack at the supermarket was a tipping point for French Jews after a recent spate of anti-Semitic attacks, including the tossing of firebombs and attacks on synagogues and shops in Jewish neighborhoods in Paris that coincided with Israel’s incursion in Gaza last summer. A French-born man was accused of gunning down four people at the Jewish museum in Brussels in May.
科瓦岑堡姆说，超市袭击对法国犹太人来说是个转折点，此前已发生过多次反犹袭击，包括去年夏天以色列进入加沙地带期间，对犹太教堂和巴黎犹太社区商店投掷燃烧弹和袭击的事件。一位在法国出生的男子被指控在去年5月，在布鲁塞尔的犹太博物馆开枪打死四个人。
France was the largest source of Jews moving to Israel last year, according to the Jewish Agency for Israel, which coordinates migration to Israel. Its director, Natan Sharansky, predicted that up to 15,000 French Jews would emigrate this year, and that more than 50,000 French Jews would leave in the next few years. There are roughly 500,000 Jews in France, which has Europe’s largest Jewish population.
据协助向以色列移民的民间组织“以色列犹太建国会”(Jewish Agency for Israel)统计，去年，法国是移民以色列的犹太人的最大来源。会长纳塔·夏兰斯基(Natan Sharansky)预测，今年移民的法国犹太人可达1.5万，而且有逾5万法国犹太人将在未来几年内离开。法国大约有50万犹太人，拥有欧洲最大的犹太人口。
“There is enormous anxiety, a lot of anger and bitterness and a feeling that the Jewish community in France is under siege,” Mr. Cwajgenbaum said. “It has become evident that there is an internal war against the Jews being waged by Islamic radicals in this country, and people are very upset that the judicial system and the security apparatus were not able to thwart the attack.”
“法国犹太人中有巨大的焦虑，还有许多愤怒和痛苦，他们有犹太社区在法国受到围困的感觉，”科瓦岑堡姆说。“已经很明显，法国的伊斯兰激进分子对国内的犹太人发动了一场内战，人们对司法系统和安全机构未能阻止袭击发生非常失望。”
Even before this latest attack, many Jews were afraid after Mohammed Merah, a Frenchman with Algerian roots, killed seven people in 2012 in southern France, including three children and a rabbi at a Jewish school in Toulouse.
早在最近的袭击事件发生之前的2012年，就发生过阿尔及利亚裔法国人穆罕默德·米拉(Mohammed Merah)在法国南部杀死7人的事件，其中包括图卢兹犹太学校的三名儿童和一位拉比，这已让许多犹太人担惊受怕。
In January 2013, Dieudonné M’bala M’bala, a comedian of French and West African heritage, had a series of his shows shut down by the French authorities. He had said it was a shame that a Jewish journalist had not been killed in the gas chambers. He has also drawn criticism for popularizing a gesture that strongly resembles a Nazi salute.
2013年1月，西非裔法国喜剧演员迪厄多内·姆巴拉·姆巴拉(Dieudonné M’bala M’bala)的一个系列节目被法国当局关停。他当时说，一个犹太记者没有死于毒气室是个遗憾。他还因让一个极像纳粹军礼的示意动作流行而引起人们的批评。
On his Facebook page after Sunday’s unity march, Mr. M’bala M’bala wrote: “As far as I am concerned, I feel I am Charlie Coulibaly,” alluding to the “I am Charlie” rallying cry that took hold after the terror attack on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. The Paris prosecutor’s office said Monday that it was investigating to determine whether Mr. M’bala M’bala had promoted terrorism.
周日的团结游行后，姆巴拉·姆巴拉在自己的Facebook页面上写道：“就我个人而言，我觉得我是查理·古里巴利(Charlie Coulibaly)，”这是对讽刺报纸《查理周刊》遭恐怖袭击后，人们喊出的战斗口号“我是查理”的影射。巴黎检察长办公室周一表示，正在对姆巴拉·姆巴拉的言论是否构成提倡恐怖主义罪展开调查。
French leaders, fearing the consequences of an exodus of Jews from France, have issued robust expressions of support. Prime Minister Manuel Valls said Saturday that “France without Jews is not France.” President François Hollande, wearing a skullcap, joined Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel at a commemoration event at the Grand Synagogue of Paris on Sunday. He had already deplored the attack as a horrific act of anti-Semitism.
法国领导人担心犹太人大批离开法国所带来的后果，纷纷明确表态支持犹太人。曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)总理周六说，“没有犹太人的法国不是法国。”弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)总统戴着犹太传统的无檐帽，周日在巴黎犹太大教堂和以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)一起参加了一个纪念活动。他已谴责这次袭击是令人震惊的反犹主义行为。
But Jewish residents said the new security measures were not enough to restore frayed nerves. Some said they were already planning to pack their bags for Israel, urged on by Mr. Netanyahu, who told French Jews on Sunday that they would be welcomed with “open arms.”
但这里的犹太居民说，新的安全措施还不足以让他们的紧张情绪平静下来。有些人说已打算收拾行李前往以色列，内塔尼亚胡也在呼吁他们这样做，他周日对法国犹太人说，他们将受到“热情欢迎”。
Mr. Sharansky said the attacks in Paris had helped reinforce the deepest insecurity among French Jews since World War II. He said a record 7,000 French Jews emigrated to Israel from France in 2014 — the largest number since the founding of the State of Israel in 1948 and the largest last year among global Jewery to make “aliyah,” the Hebrew word for immigration that means “to ascend.”
夏兰斯基说，巴黎的袭击事件增强了法国犹太人自二战以来的最深不安全感。他说，2014年，有7000名法国犹太人移民以色列，创下了纪录，这不仅是自以色列1948年建国以来的最高人数，而且也是在去年实现“阿利亚(aliyah)”的全球犹太人中的最大群体，“阿利亚”是希伯来语“溯源”的意思，指的是犹太人向以色列的移居。
He said that 1,000 people had arrived by 1 p.m. at a Paris fair on emigration to Israel held at the agency on Sunday.
他说，截至下午1点，已有1000人参加了其机构周日在巴黎举办的移民以色列咨询会。
“It is not just because of one terrorist attack, but a series of attacks against Jews,” he said. “Already, rabbis have been telling people not to wear” their skullcaps on the streets.
“这不仅是因为一次恐怖袭击，而是由于一系列的针对犹太人的袭击，”他说。“现在，拉比们已告诉犹太人不要戴着”他们传统的无檐帽上街。
Many Jews in the crowd outside Hyper Cacher on Monday said their French identity existed proudly alongside their Jewish one, and complained that criticism of the Israeli government and its treatment of the Palestinians was being projected on Jews. They said that the recent passage by the French National Assembly of a nonbinding resolution recognizing a Palestinian state had fanned tensions.
周一聚集在遭受袭击超市外的人中，有许多犹太人表示，他们的法国身份认同与他们的犹太身份认同自豪地共存，他们抱怨说，对以色列政府及其对待巴勒斯坦人方式的批评，已被投射为对犹太人的不满。他们说，法国国民议会最近投票通过了一项不具法律约束力的决议，承认巴勒斯坦国，这也煽动了紧张局势。
Sylvain Zenouda, the vice president of a French organization that campaigns against anti-Semitism, was among the crowd gathered to meet Mr. Netanyahu. He said he was having flashbacks to the 1960s, when he and his family fled Morocco for France amid fears about violence against Jews.
聚集在与内塔尼亚胡见面的人群中的有西尔万·赞努达(Sylvain Zenouda)，他是一个领导抵制反犹主义的法国组织的副主席。他说，他似乎回到了20世纪60年代，那时，他和他的家人由于担心针对犹太人的暴力，从摩洛哥逃到了法国。
“In the 1960s, we packed our bags overnight and fled,” said Mr. Zenouda, who has three children. “This time we will take our time and won’t flee in the night. But Jews will leave for Israel where we can feel safe.”
赞努达有三个孩子，他说，“20世纪60年代，我们连夜收拾行李出逃。这次，我们有足够的时间，不用在夜间逃走。但犹太人会离开这里去以色列，在那里我们能感到安全。”