PARIS — At a moment when American lawmakers are reconsidering the broad surveillance powers assumed by the government after Sept. 11, the lower house of the French Parliament took a long stride in the opposite direction Tuesday, overwhelmingly approving a bill that could give authorities their most intrusive domestic spying abilities ever, with almost no judicial oversight.
巴黎——正当美国议员重新考虑政府在9·11事件后获得的广泛监控权的时候，法国议会下院周二却朝着相反的方向走了很远，以绝对多数通过了一项法案，授予当局有史以来最具侵扰性的国内监控权力，这种权力几乎不受司法监督。
The bill, in the works since last year, now goes to the Senate, where it seems likely to pass, having been given new impetus in reaction to the terrorist attacks in and around Paris in January, including at the offices of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and at a kosher grocery, that left 17 people dead.
这部自去年开始进行讨论的法案现已提交至参议院，而参议院似乎有可能通过该法案，这为当局回应今年1月在巴黎及周边地区发生的恐怖袭击事件的一系列举动注入了新动力。当时讽刺报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的办公室及一家犹太洁食(kosher)商店遭到袭击，导致17人死亡。
As the authorities struggle to keep up with the hundreds of French citizens who are cycling to and from battlefields in Iraq and Syria to wage jihad — often lured over the Internet — the new steps would give the intelligence services the right to gather potentially unlimited electronic data.
法国当局正努力追踪数百名往返于伊拉克和叙利亚参与圣战的法国公民的踪迹，这些人往往是在网上受到引诱。新举措会向情报部门授权，使其可以收集可能无限的电子数据。
The provisions, as currently outlined, would allow them to tap cellphones, read emails and force Internet providers to comply with government requests to sift through virtually all of their subscribers’ communications.
目前概述的法案条文将会允许情报机构监听手机通话、查阅电子邮件、迫使网络服务供应商遵照政府的要求，筛查几乎所有用户的通讯信息。
Among the types of surveillance that the intelligence services would be able to carry out is the bulk collection and analysis of metadata similar to that done by the United States’ National Security Agency.
情报部门可以开展的监控活动中，包括收集并分析大量元数据，这与美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)采取的举措类似。
The intelligence services could also request a right to put tiny microphones in a room or on objects such as cars or in computers or place antennas to capture telephone conversations or mechanisms that capture text messages. Both French citizens and foreigners could be tapped.
情报部门还可以要求取得以下权力：在房间里或汽车、电脑等物体上安装微型麦克风，安装天线以截取电话交谈记录，或安装装置获取短信消息。法国公民和外国人都可能会被监听。
“The last intelligence law was done in 1991, when there were neither cellphones nor Internet,” said Manuel Valls, the prime minister, who took the unusual step early last month of personally presenting the bill to the National Assembly and defending the measures, which are already facing gathering opposition from concerned lawyers, Internet companies and human rights groups.
“上一部情报法是在1991年通过的，当时还没有手机或互联网，”法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)说。上个月初，瓦尔斯罕见地亲自将该法案提交给国民议会(National Assembly)，并对这些举措做出了辩护。忧心忡忡的律师、网络公司和人权团体已经对这些举措表达了反对。
Indeed, the move by the lower house of Parliament underscored the fervent debate going on across Europe over how best to balance civil liberties and privacy rights against mounting threats to security in an age of rising extremism and global interconnectivity.
实际上，议会下院的动作突显了欧洲各国正在进行的激烈争论：如何在一个极端主义崛起、全球互联性加强的时代，在公民自由、隐私权及日益加剧的安全威胁之间取得最佳的平衡。
The confluence of new technologies, virtual social networks and alienated Muslims has made it all the easier for militant groups like the Islamic State to recruit young Europeans for their cause of establishing a new caliphate in the Middle East — and, potentially, of striking at European adversaries at home.
新技术、虚拟社交网络纷纷涌现，并与受到疏远的穆斯林相互影响，使得伊斯兰国(Islamic State)等激进组织更容易招募欧洲的年轻人，参与在中东建立新哈里发国的事业，甚至可能在欧洲本土发起袭击。
Last month, virtually by a fluke, the French authorities uncovered an apparent plot to attack at least one church near Paris by a gunman who appeared to have been encouraged solely over the Internet by handlers in Syria, without ever having gone there to enlist in jihad.
上个月，法国当局侥幸发现了一个明显的阴谋，一名枪手计划对巴黎附近的至少一座教堂发起攻击，这名枪手似乎只是在网络上受到叙利亚操控者的怂恿，从未前往叙利亚参与圣战。
The growth of global communication, however, has also encouraged governments toward expansive and sometimes unchecked surveillance powers, as the leaks from the National Security Agency’s files by a former contractor, Edward J. Snowden, revealed in 2013.
然而，全球通讯的发展也促使政府获取了广泛且时常不受约束的监控权力，就如前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)公布的美国国家安全局文件所显示的那样。
Even as rising security threats have pushed some European governments to expand their intelligence gathering, elsewhere, like in Germany, the Snowden revelations continue to generate pressures to rein in government surveillance.
尽管不断严峻的安全威胁促使一些欧洲国家的政府加大了收集情报的力度，但在德国等国家，斯诺登泄密事件仍然引发了很强的压力，要求政府限制监控力度。
Despite the breadth of the provisions in the French bill, Mr. Valls promised that the French law would be “targeted,” and insisted its main focus was to protect French citizens from terrorism.
虽然这部法律中的规定的覆盖面极其广泛，但是瓦尔斯承诺，该法律将是“有针对性的”，他坚称此举主要目的是保护法国公民免受恐怖主义的伤害。
“The means of surveillance for anticipating, detecting and prevention of attacks will be strictly limited,” he promised.
他承诺说，“用于预防、侦查和阻止袭击的监控手段，将受到严格的限制。”
But opponents, including one of France’s leading judges dealing with terrorism cases, Marc Trévidic, say that the law’s text contradicts the prime minister’s assurances.
不过，反对者表示，该法律的文本与总理的保证相互矛盾。反对者中包括法国审理恐怖案件的主要法官之一马克·特雷维迪克(Marc Trévidic)。
“It is a state lie,” said Pierre-Olivier Sur, the head of the Paris bar association. “This project was presented to us as a way to protect France against terrorism, and if that were the case, I would back it,” he said.
“这是政府的谎言，”巴黎律师公会会长皮埃尔-奥利维耶·苏尔(Pierre-Olivier Sur)说。“该项目是作为一种保护法国不受恐怖主义侵害的手段来展示给我们的，如果事实的确如此，我当然支持，”他说。
“But it is being done to put in place a sort of Patriot Act concerning the activities of each and everyone,” he said, referring to the American legislation that among other things authorized extensive electronic surveillance as a way to intercept terrorist activity.
“但这么做，只是为了颁布一项类似《爱国者法案》的东西，它涉及每个人的活动，”他说。美国的《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)授权了大量举措，包括广泛的电子监控措施，以此作为阻止恐怖行为的一种手段。
Mr. Sur said that he and others worried that the measure could be used to monitor any behavior the government viewed as potentially disruptive.
苏尔说，他和其他一些人担心，该措施可能会被用于监控任何一种被政府认为可能引起混乱的行为。
The editor-in-chief of Charlie Hebdo — a victim of the kinds of attack the measure is presumably meant to thwart — also criticized it. “I think that opportunistic laws are always bad laws,” the editor in chief, Gérard Biard, said in an interview at The New York Times Editorial Board.
《查理周报》就是这部法案打算遏制那种袭击的受害者，但该报主编也谴责了这种做法。“我认为这种机会主义的法律永远是糟糕的法律，”这位名叫热拉尔·比亚尔(Gérard Biard)的主编在接受《纽约时报》评论部采访时说。
“I understand the spirit of this law,” he said. “But I think we already have a lot of laws, and with these laws, if they’re used correctly, you can fight and you can fight terrorism. So I understand the government, you have to do something. The easiest thing to do is to invoke a law. But maybe it’s a mistake, because if this law is not correct, if this law is not fair, it’s not the right answer.”
“我明白这部法律的宗旨，”他说。“但我认为我们已经有了很多法律，而这些法律如果恰当地使用，就可以打击恐怖主义。其实我理解政府，他们必须得做些什么，而最容易做到的就是推出一部法律。但这也许是个错误，因为如果这部法律不恰当，如果法律不公正的话，就不是正确的解决办法。”
The new law would create a 13-member National Commission to Control Intelligence Techniques, which would be made up of six magistrates from the Council of State and the Court of Appeals, three representatives of the National Assembly and three senators from the upper house of the French Parliament and a technical expert.
根据新法律，法国将设立一个由13名成员组成的全国情报技术控制委员会(National Commission to Control Intelligence Techniques)，其成员包括最高行政法院(Council of State)和上诉法院的六名法官、国民议会的三名议员、参议院的三名议员，以及一位技术专家。
Any requests to initiate surveillance would have to go through the commission. However, if the commission recommended not to set up the monitoring, it could be overridden by the prime minister.
任何发起监控的请求都需要经过该委员会的批准。不过，即使委员会建议不要启动监控，总理仍有最后的决定权。