First folios of Shakespeare’s plays are among the world’s rarest books, intensely scrutinized by scholars for what their sometimes-minute variations — each copy is different — reveal about the playwright’s intentions.
莎士比亚戏剧的《第一对开本》是全世界最珍贵的书籍之一。由于其中的一些有时颇细微的差别——每一个版本都不一样，能透露出这位剧作家的意图，学者对它们进行了仔细的研究。
Now a previously unknown folio has surfaced at a small library in northern France, bringing the world’s known total of surviving first folios to 233.
现在，法国北部一家小图书馆发现了一本之前不为人知的《第一对开本》，使全世界已知的《第一对开本》现存总数增至233本。
“This is huge,” said Eric Rasmussen, an American Shakespeare expert who traveled to France over the weekend to authenticate the volume. “First folios don’t turn up very often, and when they do, it’s usually a really chewed up, uninteresting copy. But this one is magnificent.”
“这一发现意义重大，”研究莎士比亚的美国专家埃里克·拉斯穆森(Eric Rasmussen)说。“《第一对开本》不常出现，即使出现，通常也是受损极严重的、索然无味的版本。但这一本保存得特别好。”为了鉴定这本书，拉斯穆森在周末去了法国。
The book was discovered this fall by librarians at a public library in St.-Omer, near Calais, who were sifting through its collections for an exhibition on English-language literature. The title page and other introductory material were torn off, but Rémy Cordonnier, the director of the library’s medieval and early modern collection, suspected that the book — cataloged as an unexceptional old edition — might in fact be a first folio.
该书是今年秋天在加莱附近的圣奥梅尔的一处公共图书馆被发现的。当时，为了进行一场英语文学展览，图书管理员正在清理藏书。该书的书名页和其他介绍性内容都被撕掉了，编号显示为一本普通的老旧版本书籍，但图书馆负责中世纪和近代藏书的主任亥米·科多尼耶(Rémy Cordonnier)怀疑，它兴许实际上是《第一对开本》。
He called in Mr. Rasmussen, a professor at the University of Nevada in Reno and the author of “The Shakespeare First Folios: A Descriptive Catalogue,” who identified it within minutes.
他给在内华达州立大学里诺分校(University of Nevada, Reno)担任教授的拉斯穆森打了电话。作为《莎士比亚第一对开本：描述目录》(The Shakespeare First Folios: A Descriptive Catalogue)一书的作者，拉斯穆森只用了几分钟就做出了判断。
“It was very emotional to realize we had a copy of one of the most famous books in the world,” Mr. Cordonnier said. “I was already imagining the reaction it would cause.”
“意识到我们有一本堪称全世界最著名的书令人非常激动，”科多尼耶说。“我当时已经在想象这件事会引起的反应了。”
Few scholars have yet seen the book. But its discovery among holdings inherited from a long-defunct Jesuit college is already being hailed as a potential source of fresh insight into everything from tiny textual variants to the question of Shakespeare’s connection to Catholic culture.
至今还没有多少学者见过书的真容。但该书属于一所消失已久的耶稣会学院的遗产，仅这一点已经引人惊呼，认为它也许能带来一系列新颖的见解，从细微的文本差异，到莎士比亚与天主教文化之间的联系，无所不包。
“It’s a little like archaeology,” James Shapiro, a Shakespeare expert at Columbia University, said. “Where we find a folio tells us a little bit more about who was reading Shakespeare, who was valuing him.”
“有点像考古学，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)莎士比亚专家詹姆斯·夏皮罗(James Shapiro)说。“在哪里发现了《第一对开本》这一点，会进一步告诉我们谁在看莎士比亚的作品，谁重视他。”
The folio, whose discovery was first reported by the regional French newspaper La Voix du Nord, is not the rarest book the St.-Omer library owns. It also has a Gutenberg Bible, of which fewer than 50 are known to survive.
法国地区性报纸《北方之声》(La Voix du Nord)率先报道了此事。但这本《第一对开本》并非圣奥梅尔这家图书馆拥有的最罕见的书。该图书馆还有一本《古腾堡圣经》(Gutenberg Bible)。据知，该书现存不到50本。
But few books hold the first folio’s value — one was sold at Christie’s in 2006 for $6.8 million — or its mystique. It contains 36 plays, nearly all of Shakespeare’s output. Printed in a run of about 800 copies in 1623, seven years after the playwright’s death, it is considered the only reliable text for half of his plays. (No manuscripts of any Shakespeare plays survive.)
但几乎没有什么书的价值和神秘感能与《第一对开本》相提并论——2006年，一本《第一对开本》在佳士得(Christie’s)的拍卖价是680万美元（约合4200万元人民币）。该书收录了36部戏剧，几乎囊括了莎士比亚的所有作品。在莎士比亚离世七年后的1623年，该书付梓印刷了大约800本。人们认为，对于莎士比亚的一半戏剧作品，《第一对开本》是唯一可靠的文本。（莎士比亚的所有所戏剧均没有现存手稿。）
Today, first folios are tracked like rare black rhinoceroses, right down to their disappearances. One is known to have burned in the Great Chicago Fire of 1871; another went down with the S.S. Arctic off Newfoundland in 1854.
如今，人们像对黑犀牛一样关注《第一对开本》，直到追踪到它们的消失。据知，其中一本在1871年的芝加哥大火中被烧毁；还有一本于1854年随北极号(SS Arctic)在纽芬兰附近沉没。
New ones come to light every decade or so, Mr. Rasmussen said, most recently in the library of a London woman who died without a will. “It was a mess, with a bunch of second-folio bits mixed in,” Mr. Rasmussen said.
拉斯穆森说，每10年左右会发现一个新的《第一对开本》，上一次是在一名伦敦女子的藏书室里，她已经去世，但没有留下遗嘱。“书里乱七八糟的，夹杂了第二对开本里的许多内容，”拉斯穆森说。
The St.-Omer folio, which is to be put on display there next year, will no doubt draw legions of visitors. It also, Mr. Rasmussen said, may feed one of the more contentious disputes in Shakespeare studies: whether the playwright was a secret Catholic.
在圣奥梅尔发现的《第一对开本》明年将在那里展出。它毫无疑问将吸引大量参观者。拉斯穆森说，它还可能助长莎士比亚研究中对一个最有争议的分歧的争论：这位剧作家是否是一名地下天主教徒。
That claim, Mr. Rasmussen said, has long been the subject of much “intelligent speculation,” most prominently of late by the Harvard scholar Stephen Greenblatt. The discovery of the folio in St.-Omer provides a bit more ballast, he said, if hardly a smoking gun.
拉斯穆森说，有许多“睿智的猜想”是这么认为的，其中最著名的代表就是哈佛大学(Harvard)学者斯蒂芬·格林布拉特(Stephen Greenblatt)。他说，在圣奥梅尔发现的《第一对开本》又提供了一点支撑，即使算不上是确凿的证据。
Mr. Rasmussen pointed out the name “Neville,” inscribed on the folio’s first surviving page — a possible indication, he said, that the book was brought to St.-Omer in the 1650s by Edward Scarisbrick, a member of a prominent English Catholic family who went by that alias and attended the Jesuit college, founded when Catholics were banned from England’s universities.
拉斯穆森提到了这个对开本的第一页上的名字“内维尔(Neville)”，他说，这或许意味着这本书是1650年代由爱德华·斯卡尔斯布里克(Edward Scarisbrick)带到圣奥梅尔去的。斯卡尔斯布里克来自英国一个著名的天主教家庭，用化名入读了那间耶稣会学院，学校创立之时，天主教徒是被禁止入读英国大学的。
“People have been making some vague arguments, but now for the first time we have a connection between the Jesuit college network and Shakespeare,” he said. “The links become a little more substantial when you have this paper trail.”
“此前有过一些含混的说法，但现在，我们第一次看到了耶稣会学院的网络和莎士比亚存在的联系，”他说。“当你有了这种文本的证据时，这种联系变得更真实了一些。”
Jean-Christophe Mayer, a Shakespeare expert at the University of Montpelier, in France, cautioned against making too strong a connection, but noted that a library in the northern French town of Douai also owned some early transcripts of Shakespeare’s plays. “It’s interesting that the plays were on the syllabuses at these colleges,” he said. The new folio, he added, “could be part of the puzzle of Shakespeare’s place in Catholic culture.”
法国蒙彼利埃大学(University of Montpelier)的莎士比亚专家让-克里斯托夫·马耶尔(Jean-Christophe Mayer)提醒说，不要把这种联系看得太重要，但是他指出，法国北部城镇杜埃的一座图书馆里也拥有莎士比亚剧作的早期抄本。他说，“有趣的是，这些学院大纲里能有这些剧作，”并说这个新的对开本“可能有助于我们解开莎士比亚之于天主教文化有何意义这一谜题”。
The St.-Omer folio will also help with the dizzyingly intricate piecing together of the most authentic versions of the plays. The text of each surviving first folio differs subtly from the others; compositors in the print shop constantly made corrections, introducing many textual uncertainties that still bedevil scholars and stage directors alike.
这个在圣奥梅尔发现的对开本，同时也有助于我们将剧作最真实可信的部分拼合在一起，这是一个极为复杂的工作。每个现存的第一开本的文本，都与其他版本略有不同；印刷厂的排字工人不断修改，带来了许多文本上的不确定性，这些不确定性至今仍折磨着学者和舞台剧导演。
The St.-Omer folio, Mr. Rasmussen said, also contains handwritten notes that may illuminate how the plays were performed in Shakespeare’s time.
拉斯穆森说，在圣奥梅尔发现的对开本还包括一些手写的批注，这可能会帮助我们了解这些剧作在莎士比亚的时代是如何演出的。
In one scene in “Henry IV,” the word “hostess” is changed to “host” and “wench” to “fellow” — possibly reflecting an early performance where a female character was turned into a male. “I’ve never seen this kind of gender switch in a Shakespeare folio,” Mr. Rasmussen said.
在《亨利四世》(Henry IV)的一场戏中，“女主人”(hostess)被改成了“主人”(host)，“姑娘”(wench)改成了“小伙子”(fellow)——这或许反映出，在一次早期的演出中，一个女性角色被改成了男性角色。“我从来没有在莎士比亚的对开本里看到过这种角色性别的更改，”拉斯穆森说。