PARIS — President François Hollande of France will use D-Day commemorations next week as an opportunity to assume a more direct diplomatic role in the Ukraine crisis, becoming the first European leader to meet face to face with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia since the Western effort to isolate him for his annexation of Crimea.
巴黎——法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)将利用下周诺曼底登陆纪念日的机会，在乌克兰危机中担任更直接的外交角色。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)吞并克里米亚之后，西方一直试图孤立普京，下周，奥朗德将成为自那时以来首位与普京会面的欧洲领导人。
Though Mr. Hollande and lower-ranking French officials have been in regular contact with Mr. Putin and his inner circle for months, the French have played a quieter role on Ukraine than the Germans and the Americans. Recently, Mr. Hollande joined Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on a phone call with Mr. Putin.
数月以来，奥朗德和一些低级别法国官员一直在定期与普京及其亲信进行交流，但与德国和美国相比，法国在乌克兰问题上显得更加低调。近来，奥朗德曾与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)一起与普京通话。
Mr. Hollande’s scheduled meeting with the Russian president now constitutes the French president’s most prominent diplomatic foray into the Ukrainian crisis since it began. It follows France’s announcement that it would honor a deal worth 1.2 billion euros, or $1.6 billion, to deliver two Mistral-class warships to Russia even after its land grab in Ukraine, a decision that displeased France’s Western allies.
奥朗德与普京的会晤将是这位法国总统自乌克兰危机爆发以来最引人瞩目的外交攻势。此前，法国曾宣布将履行相关协议，把两艘价值12亿欧元（约合16亿美元，102亿元人民币）的“米斯特拉尔”级(Mistral-class)战舰发往俄罗斯，尽管俄罗斯刚刚侵占了乌克兰领土。这个决定让法国的西方盟友非常不快。
“The dialogue with Russia was always maintained,” with a goal of “de-escalation,” according to a French diplomat with knowledge of the talks, speaking on the condition of anonymity because she was not authorized to describe them.
“我们一直在与俄罗斯保持对话”，希望“缓和紧张局势”，一名了解对话情况的法国外交官表示。因为无权谈论相关事宜，她要求匿名。
Presidential officials said there were now plans for a bilateral meeting on the eve of the commemorations of the 70th anniversary of the Allied landings, which will be held on June 6.
总统府官员称，有关方面目前计划在盟军诺曼底登陆70周年纪念日前夕举办一次双边会议。此次纪念仪式将于6月6日举行。
Mr. Putin had long been scheduled to attend the events, leaving French officials with the choice of disinviting Mr. Putin to a solemn occasion that would in part honor the Allies’ World War II cooperation with Russia, or seeing the gesture through and, it seems, turning it into a chance to ease tensions with Russia.
普京出席纪念活动一事早已列入日程，这样一来，法国官方可以选择取消对普京的邀请，不让他列席这个部分主旨在于纪念同盟国与俄罗斯二战时期合作的重要场合，也可以完成这一邀请，使之成为一个缓解与俄罗斯紧张关系的机会。
A State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, seemed to support allowing the commemorations to go ahead as planned, when asked on May 8. “Well, our current differences over Ukraine notwithstanding, the fact remains, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, the Soviet Union and many others united 70 years ago to defeat Nazism,” she said. “And this was a historic victory, and those who sacrificed to bring peace to Europe deserve to be honored as part of that.”
5月8日回答提问时，国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)似乎支持让纪念活动按原计划进行。“虽然我们在乌克兰问题上仍有分歧，但美国、英国、法国、苏联及许多其他国家在70年前合力打败纳粹的事实是无法改变的，”她说。“那是一次历史性的胜利，那些为欧洲和平做出牺牲的人应该成为纪念活动的一部分。”
Still, it remained unclear how thoroughly Mr. Hollande’s decision to use the occasion to meet with Mr. Putin was coordinated with American or other European officials, or whether they would interpret the move as undercutting the efforts to isolate the Russian leader.
尽管如此，尚不清楚奥朗德借机与普京会面的决定在多大程度上经过了与美国或其他欧洲官员的协调，以及他们是否会认为此举破坏了孤立普京的努力。
Nor was it clear whether Mr. Hollande, who has shown himself to be notably decisive in foreign crises, was stepping up his diplomatic role in an effort to offset his declining political fortunes at home, where his party suffered a significant setback in elections for the European Parliament on Sunday.
同样不清楚的是，在外交危机中表现极为果断的奥朗德此番强化自己的外交角色，是否是为了弥补自己在国内每况愈下的政治处境。他所在的政党在周日的欧洲议会(European Parliament)法国区选举中遭受了重大挫折。
Immediately after the annexation of Crimea in March, the Group of 8 industrialized countries, which includes the United States and European powers, suspended Russia from participation in the forum, and the United States and Europe have subsequently clamped sanctions on Mr. Putin, his inner circle, and Russian moguls in an effort to exact a cost for changing the borders of Europe by fiat.
克里米亚于今年3月被俄罗斯吞并，包括美国和各欧洲强国在内的工业化国家组织八国集团(Group of 8)随即中止了俄罗斯的成员资格。随后，美国和欧洲对普京、普京的核心圈子和俄罗斯的显要人物实施了制裁，试图让其为擅自改变欧洲边界付出代价。
Officials at the French presidency denied reports that Mr. Hollande would host a dinner for Mr. Putin, or try to mediate directly between the Russian president and his Ukrainian counterpart, Petro O. Poroshenko, the billionaire confectioner who was elected president on Sunday.
相关报道称奥朗德会为普京举行宴会，或尝试在俄罗斯总统和周日当选乌克兰总统的糖果业富商彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)之间进行直接斡旋，法国总统府官员否认了这些说法。
But Mr. Hollande has invited Mr. Poroshenko to attend the commemorations as well. There are no plans for a meeting between the Russian and Ukrainian leaders, but the men will attend ceremonial events together with other heads of state, as well as a luncheon to be held at a chateau in Normandy, according to the French diplomat.
不过，奥朗德也邀请了波罗申科出席纪念活动。目前尚无安排俄罗斯和乌克兰领导人会面的计划，但前述法国外交官称，俄乌两国领导人将与其他国家首脑一同出席庆祝活动，以及在诺曼底一座城堡举行的午宴。
Mr. Hollande is scheduled to meet with President Obama on the eve of the commemorations, the same day he will meet with Mr. Putin; there is no expectation that a joint meeting between the three leaders will be held, however, the diplomat said.
按计划，奥朗德将在纪念活动前夕与奥巴马总统会面，时间是在他会见普京的同一天，但这名外交官称，预计不会有三位领导人同时参加的会面。