PARIS — The bodies of five babies, including four hidden in a freezer, were discovered in a house in southern France after a man told the police he had found the corpse of a baby in a cooler bag in his home, a senior police official said Friday.
巴黎——警方的一名高级官员周五称，在法国南部的一栋房屋里发现了五具婴儿尸体，其中四具藏在冷冻柜里。这一发现源于一名男子向警方报告，在自家的冰包里发现了一具婴儿尸体。
The official, Christophe Crépin, a spokesman for the UNSA police union, said the discovery of the babies’ bodies came to light on Thursday when the man, a 40-year-old farmer, contacted the police after he discovered a newborn’s body in an isothermal bag at his family’s home in Louchats, a rural village about 30 kilometers south of Bordeaux. After the police searched the home, they discovered four other corpses of babies in a large freezer, he said.
这名官员名叫克里斯托夫·克雷潘(Christophe Crépin)，是UNSA警察工会的发言人。他表示，这些尸体重见天日是因为这名男子周四在家中的一个保温包里发现了一具新生儿的尸体。该男子40岁，是一名务农者，住在波尔多以南30公里的卢沙特村。克雷潘称，警方对他的家进行了搜查之后，在一个大冷冻柜里发现了另外的四具婴儿尸体。
Mr. Crépin said the man had been detained and was being questioned by the police, while his wife, age 35, had been taken to the hospital to undergo psychological and gynecological examinations. The couple have two daughters ages 13 and 15.
克雷潘表示，这名男子已被拘捕，正在接受警方的讯问。他的妻子现年35岁，已送往医院，接受心理和妇科检查。这对夫妇有两个女儿，分别为13岁和15岁。
The police said they were still investigating the mysterious deaths and were considering several possibilities, including whether infanticide had been committed, whether the babies had been stillborn, or whether the mother had been suffering from a condition in which women deny they are pregnant.
警方称，他们仍在调查这些婴儿的离奇死亡，目前正在考虑几种可能性，包括遭人杀害、死胎，或是这位母亲患有否认怀孕的疾病。
Agence France-Presse reported that the initial findings of the investigation appeared to suggest that the mother, who worked at a garden nursery, had given birth to a baby alone in the couple’s house. It said the woman had been seen by neighbors in their sleepy village as recently as three weeks ago and did not appear pregnant. News reports said the man had told the police that he had not known his wife was pregnant.
法新社(Agence France-Presse)报道，初步调查结果似乎显示，这名母亲在夫妇二人的这栋房子里独自生过一个孩子。此人在一家园林苗圃工作。文中称，在这个生活节奏缓慢的村庄，邻居们上次见到这名女子是在三周前，当时她看起来并没有怀孕。不少新闻报道称，这名男子告诉警方，他没听说妻子怀了孕。
It is not the first time that France has been shaken by the discovery of dead babies.
这并不是法国第一次受到发现婴儿尸体的震动。
In 2010, the bodies of eight newborn babies were found buried in the garden of a home in Villers-au-Tertre, in the north of France. Their mother, Dominique Cottrez, told the authorities that she had killed them because she believed they were the product of incest.
2010年，有八名新生儿的尸体被发现埋在法国北部维莱欧泰尔特尔的一户人家的花园里。他们的母亲多米妮克· 科特兹(Dominique Cottrez)告诉当局，她杀害了这些婴儿，因为她觉得他们是乱伦的产物。
That followed a case in 2006 when Jean-Louis Courjault, a French engineer who was living in Seoul, South Korea, discovered the corpses of two newborn babies in his freezer. His wife, Véronique Courjault, was sentenced in June 2009 to eight years in prison for killing three of her babies, and was freed in May 2010.
再往前的2006年，居住在韩国首尔的法国工程师让-路易·科陶德(Jean-Louis Courjault)在自家冷冻柜里发现了两具新生儿尸体。他的妻子于2009年6月因杀害三个孩子被判处八年监禁，后于2010年5月获释。