PARIS — As France mourned its dead, thousands of police were mobilized on Thursday in an extensive manhunt for two brothers suspected of killing 12 people, including two police officers, at a satirical magazine.
巴黎——周四，当法国在悼念亡者时，一场大追捕调用了数千名警察搜捕两兄弟。这对兄弟涉嫌在一家讽刺报纸的办公地点杀害了12人，其中包括两名警察。
The police, who were also guarding key sites, including railway and subway stations, department stores and journalism offices, were said to be narrowing their search for the brothers to northern France, where the armed men broke into a gasoline station to get food and later abandoned one of the cars they had used in their getaway from Paris on Wednesday.
包括火车站、地铁站、百货大楼和媒体驻地在内的关键场所均有警力保护。据称，警方正在将针对两兄弟的搜捕范围缩小到法国北部。在那里，全副武装的兄弟二人闯进一家加油站找食物，后来又遗弃了一辆周三从巴黎逃逸时用过的汽车。
The sighting of the men at the station and the discovery of the car, in the town of Villers-Cotterêts, in Picardy, captivated a nation that seemed to come together, at least for a moment of silence at noon on a rare official day of national mourning, to defend French values like freedom of the press and religious tolerance.
在加油站被人看到，再加上皮卡第的维莱科特雷镇发现的那辆车，让举国上下都对此事产生了热切的关注。至少在这个不常见的官方全国哀悼日的正午默哀一事上，法国似乎团结在了一起，共同捍卫其言论自由和宗教宽容等价值观。
Thousands wore stickers reading “Je suis Charlie,” referring to the magazine whose editors and most prominent cartoonists were killed, Charlie Hebdo National television ran constant live coverage of the manhunt for the fugitives, Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, 34 and 32.
数千人身上贴着写有“Je suis Charlie”（我是查理）字样的贴纸，“查理”指的是那家有编辑和知名漫画家遇害的杂志社。一档名为“《查理周报》全国行动”(Charlie Hebdo National)的电视节目持续直播对逃亡中的两人——34岁的赛义德·库瓦奇(Saïd Kouachi)和32岁的谢里夫·库瓦奇(Chérif Kouachi)——的搜捕。
The gunmen killed their victims and wounded 11 more people with precision and calm, and were heard on videos shouting “Allahu Akhbar!” and “We have avenged the Prophet Muhammad! We have killed Charlie Hebdo!” The men said that they were acting on behalf of Al Qaeda in Yemen, according to a witness. Two American officials said on Thursday that the brothers had ties to Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Yemen, but the officials declined to say whether that meant the suspects had been in communication with the group.
枪手精准、镇定地杀害了多人，另外还杀伤11人。在多段视频中，他们高喊“真主至大！”和“我们替先知穆罕默德报了仇。我们摧毁了《查理周报》！”一名目击者称，那些男子说他们代表也门的基地组织(Al Qaeda)。两名美国官员周四表示，这对兄弟与基地组织的也门分支有关联，但他们拒绝透露这是否意味着嫌犯一直与该组织有联络。
Questions were raised about why the police and security services, who had known about the brothers, one of whom had spent time in jail for jihadist activities, had failed to disrupt the attack.
人们质疑事前了解兄弟两人情况的警方和安全机构，为何未能阻止袭击。这对兄弟中的一人曾因圣战活动而入狱。
The moment of silence here was widely respected. But some worried that the sense of national solidarity may not last, given the shock these killings have delivered, which Arash Derambarsh, a publisher and politician, compared to Sept. 11 in the United States. There, Muslim radicals of Al Qaeda struck the symbols of American economic and political power; here, the target – the small, often vulgar satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, was an important cultural symbol of French secularism, liberty and license.
在这里，默哀得到了广泛的尊重。但一些人担心，考虑到杀戮带来的震动，这种举国团结的感觉可能持续不了多长时间。出版人、政界人物阿尔希·德朗巴尔希(Arash Derambarsh)将此事比作美国的9·11事件。9·11事件中，基地组织中的穆斯林极端分子攻击了美国经济和政治实力的象征；此次事件中的被攻击对象是规模很小且常常显得粗鄙的讽刺杂志，但它是法国世俗主义、自由和宽容的重要文化象征。
“This is a war between freedom of speech and our civilization and those who want to kill it,” Mr. Derambarsh said.
“这是言论自由及我们的文明与那些试图扼杀它的人之间的一场战争，”德朗巴尔希说。
Charlie Hebdo announced that despite the loss of so many of its most talented people – cartoonists who have been famous in France for a generation -- it would publish as scheduled next Wednesday, and rather than print the usual 60,000 copies, would print one million.
《查理周报》宣布，尽管失去了这么多极具才华的员工——在法国一代人中最负盛名的漫画家——该报将于下周三如期刊印，印量也将是100万份，而非往常的6万份。
But the mood of defiance was fragile. Thursday morning, there was panic after another gunfight, when a woman police officer was killed and a city employee was wounded near a subway station just south of the capital.
但同仇敌忾的氛围是稍纵即逝的。周四上午，就在首都以南的一个地铁站，一名女警察在一场枪战中殉职，另有一名市政府工作人员受伤。事件引起了恐慌。
The incident seemed unrelated, the police said, and announced two arrests. But there were other isolated events. There was an explosion at a kebab shop in eastern France, with no casualties reported, and two mosques were fired at, prosecutors said.
警方表示，此事似乎与攻击事件无关，并宣布已经逮捕两人。但还发生了其他事件。检察官表示，法国东部的一家土耳其烤肉店发生爆炸，但没有伤亡报告，两座清真寺遭到枪击。
A loud debate on immigration, already a central and emotive issue in France and across Europe at a time of economic malaise, was expected to become even more central following attacks that had underlined the sometimes lethal clash between Western values and religious extremism.
在经济不景气的情况下，移民问题在法国及欧洲各国已经成为一个重要且敏感的话题，袭击事件突显出西方价值观与宗教极端主义之间有时存在致命冲突，有关移民问题的激烈争论因此会变得更加重要。
The French government moved quickly to try to capture the fugitives and reassure the nation, announcing numerous lower-level arrests and saying that at least five planned terrorist attacks had been thwarted in the last 18 months. The alert level was raised to its highest in northern France, as well as in the capital. The police had a break when one of the brothers, Said, left his identity card in the first car used by the gunmen, which was abandoned Wednesday evening after a crash and reportedly contained Molotov cocktails and jihadist banners.
法国政府迅速行动，试图抓捕逃犯，安抚民心，政府宣称开展了一些低级别的逮捕行动，称在过去18个月中至少挫败了五起精心策划的恐怖袭击活动。在法国北部及首都巴黎，警戒级别已经被提高至最高级。兄弟两人中的赛义德将身份证件落在持枪人员使用的第一辆车中，让警方找到一个突破口。周三夜间，这辆车在发生碰撞后遭到遗弃，据称，车上载有燃烧弹和圣战组织旗帜。
The authorities seemed to catch another break when the men robbed the gasoline station, wearing masks and waving Kalashnikovs, according to the station’s manager. Xavier Castaing, a spokesman for the Paris Police, said that two men fitting the description of the suspects had been spotted in Villers-Cotterêts, reportedly driving a gray Renault Clio, the same vehicle model that the two suspects had hijacked later Wednesday.
据一家加油站的经理透露，几名蒙面男子手持卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪抢劫了加油站，当局似乎得到了另一个机会。巴黎警察局发言人泽维尔·卡斯塔因(Xavier Castaing)表示，两名符合嫌犯特征的男子被发现位于维莱科特雷，据称，他们开着一辆灰色雷诺(Renault)Clio汽车，与两名嫌犯周三晚些时候劫持的汽车的型号一样。
There was considerable interest in Chérif Kouachi, who had been arrested in 2008 for being part of a terrorist cell recruiting French jihadists to fight in Iraq. He served 18 months in prison and was thought to have been further radicalized there. Both brothers were on the radar of the police and security services, but clearly they had not picked up this well-planned attack, just as they failed in 2012 to stop Mohammed Merah from killing seven people in southwestern France, on behalf of Al Qaeda, he said, even though they had followed him after his own stints in prison.
谢里夫·库瓦奇引起了相当大的兴趣，他曾因为参与恐怖分子小组，招募法国圣战分子前往伊拉克作战，于2008年被捕。他在监狱服刑18个月，据信，他在服刑期间变得更加激进。卡斯塔因表示，兄弟两人都受到警方及安全部门的关注，但他们明显没有发现这场精心策划的攻击活动，就像2012年的情况一样，当时警方没能阻止穆罕默德·梅拉赫(Mohammed Merah)以基地组织的名义在法国西南部杀害七人，尽管相关人员在梅拉赫服刑期满后仍对他进行了跟踪。
There simply are not enough police and security officials to keep full monitoring on everyone who goes through prison, said Jean-Charles Brisard, head of the French Center for Analysis of Terrorism, who had spoken to French security officials. The authorities had Chérif Kouachi under surveillance “for a period of time, but then they judged that there was no threat, or the threat was lower, and they had other priorities,” he said.
已经与法国安全官员交谈过的法国恐怖主义分析中心(French Center for Analysis of Terrorism)负责人让-夏尔·布里萨尔(Jean-Charles Brisard)表示，警察和安全官员人手不足，无法对每一个蹲过监狱的人进行全面监控。他表示，当局对谢里夫·库瓦奇“进行了一段时间的监控，但他们后来判定他不再构成威胁，或威胁降低，他们还有其他更要紧的任务”。