LONDON — The Tour de France bicycle race kicked off in England this year, in Yorkshire to be precise, and ended its third stage on the Mall outside Buckingham Palace. Next pigs will fly.
伦敦——今年的环法自行车赛是在英国拉开了序幕，准确地说，是在约克郡拉开了序幕，而且它第三阶段的终点是在白金汉宫外的广场上。接下来，猪都会飞了。
In fact they’ve already flown, given that this quintessentially French event has started in Britain once before, but still it must be asked if anything is sacred anymore. Perhaps the horse racing at Ascot will soon move to Toulouse.
事实上，猪已经飞过了，因为这个典型的法国赛事以前已经在英国举办过一次了。但我们仍然必须问：还有什么东西是神圣的呢？说不定英国皇家赛马大会很快就会搬到法国图卢兹举行。
I was in Paris last week. It was beautiful. Tourists lolled on the bridges enjoying picnics of cheese, baguettes and bad red wine. They were happy. The weather was perfect. The French were grumpy, of course. I did not notice any grumbling about the weird displacement of the Tour across the Channel, but encountered complaints over just about everything else.
上周我在巴黎。这座城市很美丽。游客们懒洋洋地倚靠桥上，享受着奶酪、法棍面包和廉价红葡萄酒组成的野餐。他们很快活。天气也好极了。当然法国人的脾气有些暴躁。对于环法自行车赛奇怪地搬到了英吉利海峡的另一边，我没有听到任何抱怨，但却听到了他们对其他种种事情的抱怨。
A former conservative president, Nicolas Sarkozy, had been hauled into police custody for 15 hours for questioning over alleged corruption. The current Socialist president, François Hollande, had plumbed new depths of unpopularity. The presidency of the Fifth Republic, once the apex of ceremonial glory and near-monarchical power, had all the luster of a damp rag.
保守派前总统尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)被警方羁押了15小时，就腐败指控接受问讯。而来自社会党的现任总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)，支持率已经跌落到了新低。法兰西第五共和国的总统宝座，曾经是辉煌荣耀和近乎君王一般的权力的象征，现在却令人失望透顶。
That the French are unhappy has become a commonplace. A nation that loves ideas is living in an ideological void. If that void is filled by anyone it is the rightist leader Marine Le Pen with her cleverly dosed venom about Europe, immigrants, crime, globalization and the other supposed culprits behind French national decline.
法国人不快乐已经成为了一种普遍情形。一个热爱思想的国家，如今却陷入了意识形态上的空虚。如果说有任何人能填补这种空虚，那就是右翼领袖马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)了。她对欧洲、移民、犯罪、全球化等等议题，进行了拿捏巧妙的抨击，在她看来这些问题正是法国衰落的元凶。
Unemployment in France is at about double the German level. Growth is at zero. Investment is at new lows. If the European economy is stirring, the French has shown an exceptional capacity to resist signs of life.
法国的失业率几乎是德国的两倍、经济增长接近于零、投资创下新低。如果说欧洲经济正在蠢蠢欲动，那么法国则显示出了顽抗生命迹象的杰出能力。
Manuel Valls, the centrist prime minister hated by many in his own Socialist Party, is trying to cut public-sector spending, loosen labor-market laws, slash payroll taxes, and generally spur job creation and growth by liberalizing a state-heavy economy. Many have tried before him. Many have failed. Such reform in France is a Sisyphean task.
法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)是中间派，在他自己的社会党内遭到了很多人的憎恶。瓦尔斯正在试图削减公共部门开支、放宽劳动力市场的法规、削减工资税，对国有成分过重的经济推行自由化，从而广泛地推动就业和经济的增长。在他之前，很多人都进行过这些尝试。很多人都失败了。在法国，这样的改革是一个西绪福斯式的任务。
France is a modern country as well as a beautiful one. Its attributes, from its health system to its rail system (when not on strike), are well known. But the French dislike modernity. They mistrust modernity. That is the nub of the problem. They dislike and mistrust it for two reasons. Modernity has redefined space and relegated the state. This is intolerable.
法国不仅是个美丽的地方，也是一个现代国家。从医疗系统的铁路系统（没有发生罢工的时候），法国的特质世人皆知。但法国人不喜欢现代性，他们不信任现代性。这就是问题的核心所在。不喜欢和不信任的原因有两个。现代性重新定义了空间，降低了国家的重要性。这是不能容忍的。
The redefinition of space has involved the technology-driven elimination of distance. As Michel Serres, a prominent French philosopher, put it in a lecture last year at the Sorbonne on the digital world, “Boeing shortens distances; new technologies annul them.”
重新定义空间，与在技术的推动之下，距离被消除有关。正如著名法国哲学家米歇尔·塞尔(Michel Serres)去年在巴黎一大(Sorbonne)谈到数字世界时所说的，“波音飞机缩短了距离；新技术消除了距离。”
This is troubling in France because nowhere else is the particularity of place and the singularity of a person’s attachment to it more important. That bond is expressed in the word “terroir,” at once the land, its special characteristics, the nature of its soil, its climate, and the unique human relationship to it. A great Burgundy and an indifferent one may come from properties a hundred yards apart. The soil is not the same, nor the slope of the land. Distance matters. Yet modernity has contempt for it. It even places the Tour de France in England. As Serres put it, “We live in a new space.”
这让法国人备受困扰，因为他们比其他人都更看重一个地点的特殊性，以及人对某地的依恋的独特性。这种纽带体现在“风土”(terroir)一词中，它既指土地，同时又指涉其独到之处，土壤的性质、气候、独有的人情关系。一瓶上好的勃艮第葡萄酒，和一瓶寻常葡萄酒的原料产地可能仅有百米之遥。土壤不一样，土地的坡度也不一样。距离是件大事。然而现代性却蔑视距离。它甚至把环法自行车赛搬到了英国。正如塞尔所说，“我们生活在一个新的空间里。”
Humanity has also changed its relationship to the state. The French place deep faith in the state. It is the righter of wrongs, the mediator of human affairs, the source of social justice, the object of duty, and the repository of power. The very word deregulation is odious to the French.
人与国家之间的关系也发生了变化。法国人对国家抱有深深的信念。国家是错误的纠正者、人际事务的调停者、社会正义的本源、尽责的对象、权力的依归。单单是“放松监管”(deregulation)这个词，都会让法国人感到厌恶。
But technology has shifted power from the state to stateless individuals living in a borderless cyberworld. An e-mail address is now more important and more relevant to the conduct of existence than a physical address. A revolution in communication is underway, not seen since the invention of the printing press, but it is not a French revolution. It is in fact an anti-French revolution. It challenges fundamental French values, the French sense of self, and the French attachment to the state.
但技术将权力从国家手中，转移到了生活在没有边界的网络世界里的无国籍人士。如今，对一个人的存在来说，电子邮件地址的重要性和意义，远比实际地址大。交流方式正在经历一场革命。自从印刷媒体被发明以来，从未有过这样的革命，但它不是一场法国革命。实际上，它是一场反法国的革命。它挑战着法国人的基本价值观、自我认知，以及对国家的依恋。