PARIS — Nicolas Sarkozy, the former president of France, was detained on Tuesday for questioning by French anticorruption investigators, a serious new turn in a blossoming criminal inquiry that threatens his hopes of a political comeback.
巴黎——本周二，法国前总统尼古拉·萨科奇(Nicolas Sarkozy)被该国反腐败调查官员拘留；对他的刑事调查已经在日益升温，而这个重大新转折进一步威胁到了他在政坛上东山再起的希望。
Mr. Sarkozy, a conservative who was president from 2007 to 2012, has not been charged, but he can be held under French law for up to 48 hours to answer questions from prosecutors. Éliane Houlette, the national prosecutor in charge of financial corruption cases, said in a telephone interview that Mr. Sarkozy, 59, was detained for questioning at 8 a.m. She did not provide further details.
萨科齐属于保守派阵营，2007至2012年期间担任法国总统。目前他还没有被起诉，但根据法国法律，他最长可以被羁押48小时，以接受检方问话。分管金融腐败案件的国家检察官伊丽安·乌莱特(Éliane Houlette)在接受电话采访时说，现年59岁的萨科齐在周二上午8时遭到拘留，但她并没有提供更多细节。
In the past, Mr. Sarkozy has denied any wrongdoing and characterized the investigation as politically motivated. An aide to Mr. Sarkozy declined to comment on Tuesday.
萨科齐之前一直否认自己曾有任何不当行为，并声称这些调查具有政治动机。萨科齐的一名助手本周二拒绝置评。
Depending on what investigators decide, Mr. Sarkozy can be released, be put under formal investigation as a suspect or be made a witness in the case, legal experts said.
法律专家说，取决于调查官员的决断，萨科齐可能会获释，或成为正式调查中的嫌疑人，又或成为该案中的证人。
The authorities are trying to establish whether Mr. Sarkozy, with the help of his lawyer, Thierry Herzog, tried to obtain information from a well-placed judge, Gilbert Azibert, about investigations ensnaring the former president, including an inquiry into the financing of his 2007 election campaign.
当局正在试图确定，萨科齐是否在其律师蒂埃里·埃尔佐格(Thierry Herzog)的帮助下，试图从了解内情的法官吉尔贝尔·阿兹贝尔(Gilbert Azibert)处获得这位前总统遭受的调查的情况，其中包括对萨科齐2007年竞选总统时筹资问题的调查。
They are also reportedly investigating whether Mr. Sarkozy, Mr. Herzog and Judge Azibert plotted to reward the judge’s help in the case with a post in Monte Carlo. Mr. Sarkozy was detained a day after investigators questioned Mr. Herzog and two judges, including Judge Azibert.
另据报道，当局也在调查萨科齐、埃尔佐格和阿兹贝尔法官是否计划用蒙特卡洛的一个职位，来回报这位法官的帮助。萨科齐被拘留的前一天，调查人员对埃尔佐格、阿兹贝尔和另一名法官进行了询问。
A series of court cases and criminal investigations have followed Mr. Sarkozy since he left office in 2012, and expectations that he could run again for the presidency in 2017 have served to intensify interest in the man once called President Bling Bling because of his flamboyant personal style. Global interest in Mr. Sarkozy, who lost his re-election bid two years ago, has also been fanned by his wife, the singer and model Carla Bruni-Sarkozy.
自从2012年离任后，萨科齐已经有一堆诉讼案件和刑事调查缠身；由于2017年他可能再次竞选总统，公众对此人的兴趣与日俱增。萨科齐的个人风格较为浮夸，因此一度被称为“亮闪闪总统”(President Bling -Bling)，两年前他竞选连任失败。萨科齐的妻子、歌手兼模特卡拉·布鲁尼-萨科齐(Carla Bruni-Sarkozy)也助长了全球公众对他的兴趣。
In March, the French daily newspaper Le Monde reported on an operation in which the authorities had for a year been tapping the phones of Mr. Sarkozy, Mr. Herzog and two of Mr. Sarkozy’s former ministers. The phone-tapping was widely viewed as an unusually aggressive tactic in a country where the office of the presidency is revered as the embodiment of the nation.
今年3月，法国的《世界报》(Le Monde)报道，当局窃听萨科齐、埃尔佐格以及萨科齐两名前任部长的电话已有一年之久。人们普遍认为，这一电话窃听行动异乎寻常地咄咄逼人，因为在法国，总统被尊为国家象征。
Under French criminal law, influence-peddling, or abuse of power in seeking to gain a favorable decision from a public authority or administration, is punishable by five years in prison and a fine of as much as 500,000 euros, or $683,000. Other former French presidents have had run-ins with the law, including Jacques Chirac, who in late 2011 was given a suspended sentence after being convicted of embezzlement and misusing public funds when he was mayor of Paris.
根据法国刑法，以权谋私，或滥用权力，从公共机关或管理部门寻求有利于自己的决定，可被判处五年监禁，以及最高可达50万欧元（约合人民币420万元）的罚款。曾经身陷官非的法国前总统还有雅克·希拉克(Jacques Chirac)，他在2011年底被判处监禁，缓期执行，罪名是他在担任巴黎市长期间贪污和滥用公款。
But Mr. Sarkozy is the first former president in the history of the country to be detained and questioned in police custody.
但萨科齐是在该国历史上第一个遭到警察羁押，在拘留期间受到询问的前总统。
Mr. Sarkozy also appears to be the first former president whose private conversations were monitored by investigators. The case has spurred lurid headlines and called into question whether the tapping of Mr. Herzog’s phone was a breach of attorney-client privilege.
萨科齐也似乎是第一个私人谈话被调查人员监听的前总统。一些媒体用耸人听闻的标题报道此事，有人则质疑埃尔佐格的电话被窃听是否违反了律师-委托人特权。
On Tuesday, some of Mr. Sarkozy’s supporters lashed out against what they termed the humiliating detention of a former president and accused the Socialist government of pushing the case in a bid to upend Mr. Sarkozy’s political ambitions. Jean-François Copé, former head of Mr. Sarkozy’s party, the Union for a Popular Movement, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Sarkozy was the victim of a “hate campaign.”
本周二，萨科齐的一些支持者猛烈抨击他们所说的“对前总统的羞辱性拘留”，并指责社会党政府在这个案件上施加压力，意在打击萨科齐的政治抱负。萨科齐所在政党“人民运动联盟”(Union for a Popular Movement)的前领袖让-弗朗索瓦·科佩(Jean-Francois Copé)在Twitter上表示，萨科齐是“仇恨运动”的受害者。
Among the accusations against Mr. Sarkozy is that in 2007 his presidential campaign received up to ¤50 million, or about $68 million, in illegal funds from Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader.
萨科齐受到指控之一是，2007年他竞选总统时，从当时的利比亚领导人穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)那里收到了最高达5000万欧元的非法资金。
Mr. Sarkozy has consistently denied any allegations of impropriety, and compared those who tapped his phones to the Stasi, the secret police in East Germany. He has said he received no financial support from Libya and has insisted that the accusations — made by former allies of Colonel Qaddafi and his sons — are politically motivated and derive from his role in orchestrating the international military intervention in Libya in 2011 that ultimately led to Colonel Qaddafi’s ouster.
萨科齐一直否认任何关于自己不当行为的指控，并把那些窃听他电话的人形容成东德秘密警察斯塔西(Stasi)。他说，他没有收取任何来自利比亚的资金支持，并坚称这些来自卡扎菲上校的前盟友和他的儿子们的指控具有政治动机，因为他参与策划了2011年国际社会对利比亚的军事干预，最终导致了卡扎菲的下台。
Suspicions have also focused on Judge Azibert, who prosecutors suspect may have fed information to Mr. Sarkozy on the direction of the judicial proceedings against him. According to Le Monde, recorded conversations between the two men included a discussion of whether Mr. Sarkozy’s 2007 campaign received improper donations from Liliane Bettencourt, 91, the L’Oréal heiress and France’s richest woman. Evidence in that case has been used in another case in which Mr. Sarkozy has come under suspicion with regard to a $550 million government payout in 2008 to Bernard Tapie, a businessman with a murky past.
阿兹贝尔法官也遭到了怀疑，检察官认为他可能把针对萨科齐的司法调查情况告知了本人。据《世界报》的报道，两人之间的对话记录涉及萨科齐2007年竞选是否从利利亚娜·贝当古(Liliane Bettencourt)处接受了不当捐款。贝当古现年91岁，是欧莱雅(L’Oréal)的继承人，也是法国最富有的女性。那起案件中的证据，已经用在了另一起涉及5.5亿美元政府支出的案件中，这笔钱在2008年被支付给了背景可疑的商人伯纳德·塔皮(Bernard Tapie)，当局对萨科齐在其中的角色产生了怀疑。
The investigation into breach of judicial secrecy and influence-peddling was opened amid suspicions that Judge Azibert was Mr. Sarkozy’s informant, according to Le Monde and government documents. In return for keeping the former president briefed, the French media reported, Judge Azibert suggested to Mr. Sarkozy that he would appreciate obtaining a post in Monaco.
《世界报》和政府文件称，当局怀疑阿兹贝尔法官是萨科齐的线人，在这种情况下开启了针对违反司法保密性和以权谋私的调查。《世界报》还表示，作为给前总统萨科齐提供内幕消息的回报，阿兹贝尔法官提出让萨科齐给他在摩纳哥谋求一个职位。