PARIS — Given France’s 35-hour workweek, generous vacations and persistent, if not altogether accurate, reputation for indolence, it may come as a surprise that the French are only now considering limits on the work emails and phone calls that come at all hours of the day and night.
巴黎——考虑到法国35小时的每周工作时间、数不胜数的假期，以及根深蒂固的懒散恶名（这点可能有些言过其实），法国人现在才想起来限制那些不分白天黑夜、随时而来的工作电邮和电话，这简直让人不可思议。
Labor unions and corporate representatives in France have agreed on an “obligation to disconnect from remote communications tools” that would apply to 250,000 employees of consulting, computing and polling firms. The accord, signed this month but yet to be approved by the Labor Ministry, would require that employers verify that the 11 hours of daily “rest” time to which all workers are legally entitled be spent uninterrupted.
法国的工会和企业代表已经同意规定一项“切断远程通讯工具的义务”，该规定将适用于咨询、计算机和调查行业的25万名企业员工。该协议已于本月签署，但还需要由法国劳动部批准。协议将需要雇主证明，每个劳动者依法享有的每天11个小时的“休息”时间是不被打断的。
“We really want there to be 11 consecutive hours,” said Marie Buard, a project leader at the Federation of Communication, Consulting and Culture, a branch of the French Democratic Confederation of Labor. Still, Ms. Buard said, “We also wouldn’t like this to squeeze businesses and cause them problems.”
“我们真正想要的是连续11个小时的休息时间，”通讯、咨询和文化联合会(Federation of Communication, Consulting and Culture)的项目负责人玛丽·比阿尔(Marie Buard)说。该机构是法国劳工民主联盟(French Democratic Confederation of Labor)的分支。尽管如此，比阿尔说，“但我们也不愿意挤压企业，给它们造成麻烦。”
Under the agreement, she said, each company would develop a policy and enforcement mechanisms. One might choose to block communications from 11 p.m. to 10 a.m. by shutting down its email servers, while another might simply ask employees not to check email between 9 p.m. and 8 a.m.
她说，根据协议，各企业可以设定自己的政策和执行机制。企业可以选择从晚上11点到第二天上午10点，通过关闭电邮服务器来阻止通讯，也可以简单地要求员工在晚上9点到第二天早上8点之间不要检查邮件。
Similar limits have been tested elsewhere. In 2011, Volkswagen started shutting off its BlackBerry servers at the end of the workday, stopping some employees in Germany from sending or receiving emails. Last year, the German Labor Ministry ordered its supervisors not to contact employees outside office hours.
其他国家已经存在类似的限制规定。2011年，大众汽车(Volkswagen)开始在每个工作日结束时关闭黑莓(BlackBerry)服务器，防止德国的一些员工下班后发送和接收电邮。去年，德国劳工部作出规定，禁止其管理人员在工作时间以外联系手下的员工。
But the British press did not seem to notice the German precedents, and reveled at another opportunity to confirm scornful stereotypes about the French. Several websites, Twitter feeds and other news outlets in Britain lost no time in misconstruing the agreement on Thursday, asserting that France had banned email after 6 p.m. or that one million 35-hour-a-week workers would be covered by the accord.
但英国媒体似乎没有注意到德国的先例，而是陶醉于利用这次机会，渲染法国人留给外界的那些令人鄙视的刻板印象。周四，多家网站、Twitter账号和英国的其他新闻机构都对该协议做出了迅速却错误的解读，它们称，法国禁止下午6点以后收发电邮，或者说该规定将覆盖100万每周工作35个小时的劳动者。
The image of French people “who don’t get anything done, who just take vacations — that’s not what this is about at all,” said Max Balensi, an official with the Syntec federation, one of the employers’ groups that signed the accord. Mr. Balensi, who said he previously worked for Accenture and BP — not French companies — called such reports “disinformation.”
这根本与法国人“只知道休假，不思进取的形象无关”，工程、信息服务、研究、顾问及职业培训联合会(Syntec)的官员马克斯·巴伦西(Max Balensi)说。Syntec是签署了该协议的企业雇员组织之一。巴伦西说，他之前曾供职于埃森哲(Accenture)和BP公司——都不是法国公司。巴伦西认为，这样的报道是“不实之词”。
In fact, the agreement will affect perhaps 250,000 consultants and technology workers whose contracts stipulate only an annual number of workdays, but not daily working hours, said Frédérique Lebon, a spokeswoman for Cinov, another employers’ federation that signed the deal. The agreement is meant to establish safeguards that would ensure balance in the lives of employees, many of whom work with foreign companies in far-flung time zones, Ms. Lebon said.
Cinov组织也签署了这一协议。该组织的发言人弗雷德里克·勒邦(Frédérique Lebon)说，事实上，该协议可能会影响25万咨询和技术人员，这些劳动者的合同上仅规定了每年的工作天数，没有规定每天的工作时长。勒邦说，该协议旨在建立保障，确保员工生活的平衡，许多人在外企工作，这些外企的业务跨越了多个相隔遥远的时区。