PARIS — All over France, from Toulouse in the south to Paris and beyond, the police have been breaking down doors, conducting searches without warrants, aggressively questioning residents, hauling suspects to police stations and putting others under house arrest.
巴黎——从南部的图卢兹到巴黎，再到其他地区，法国警方在全国各处开展搜捕行动。他们在没有搜查令的情况下破门而入，进行搜查，大肆质询居民。对于有嫌疑的人，他们或是带去警局，或是软禁。
The extraordinary steps are now perfectly legal under the state of emergency decreed by the government after the attacks on Nov. 13 in Paris that left 130 dead — a rare kind of mobilization that will continue. The French Parliament last week voted to extend the emergency for another three months, which means more warrantless searches, more interrogations, more people placed under house arrest.
在11月13日巴黎发生导致130人死亡的恐怖袭击、法国政府继而宣布进入紧急状态的情况下，这些异乎寻常的举措变为完全合法。这种罕见的动员还将持续下去。法国议会上周投票通过了将紧急状态再延长三个月的决议。这意味着，还会有更多未经授权的搜查行动、更多审讯，也会有更多人被捕和软禁。
There have been 1,072 police searches already, 139 police interrogations, and 117 people have been placed in custody, the Ministry of the Interior said on Monday. Those included a weekend raid on a restaurant selling halal burgers and Tex-Mex food in the Paris suburbs, where officers found nothing suspicious, after breaking down the doors.
法国内政部周一表示，目前警方已进行1072次搜查、139次审讯，有117人遭到监禁。周末期间，警方对位于巴黎郊区的一家供应清真汉堡和德州-墨西哥风味食物的餐厅进行突击搜查，撞开门之后，他们并没有找到任何可疑之处。
Many of those being swept up are among the hundreds of French who have already been flagged as potential security threats in the notorious S-files of the security services. The police are now freed to pick up and interrogate suspects virtually at will.
那些被大肆搜捕的，有很多属于本已列入臭名昭著的S档案(S-files)的几百号法国人。这些人被安全部门看作是潜在的安全威胁。警方现在可以自由地抓捕和审问嫌疑人，可以说是随心所欲。
An indication of the lingering shock of the attacks — and the fear coursing through French society — is that few, publicly at least, are protesting these exceptional measures. But critics of the broad net now being cast by the security services say the results are meager given the looming threat to civil liberties.
鲜少有人抗议这种异乎寻常的举措，至少极少有人公开抗议，这显示出袭击事件令人震惊的后果仍未消散。但对安全部门撒下的大网持批评意见的人表示，相比公民自由面临的威胁，这些措施的结果微不足道。
Concern is rising, particularly in Muslim communities being singled out, that France now runs the risk of tipping steeply in favor of security at the expense of individual freedoms and of instigating tension with a Muslim population — the largest in Europe — that has already long felt aggrieved and second class.
民众中的一种担忧愈发加剧，即法国如今倾向于为确保安全而破坏个人自由，并进一步激化与穆斯林群体之间紧张关系的严重风险，这种担忧在受到专门针对的穆斯林群体中尤为明显。法国穆斯林群体的规模是欧洲最大的，他们长期感觉遭遇了不公，自己是二等公民。
“These measures are going to place a spider’s web over all of France,” said Danièle Lochak, an emeritus professor of law at the University of Paris. “But in a discriminatory manner, because it will concern Muslims. It’s out of control. What are they going to do with all these people who are under house arrest?” The answer, so far, is not clear.
“这些措施会让整个法国罩上一张蜘蛛网，”巴黎大学(University of Paris)荣休法学教授达妮埃尔·洛沙克(Danièle Lochak)说。“但却是以一种歧视性的方式，因为会涉及穆斯林。事情已经失控了。他们打算怎么处理那么多被软禁的人？迄今为止，答案并不明确。”
“You’ve got the feeling that the police can do whatever they want now,” she said in a telephone interview on Monday. “We are going to forego all of the protective rules.”
“人们会觉得警察现在可以为所欲为，”她周一接受电话采访时说。“我们这是在抛弃所有保护性的法规。”
“This is what bothers me, this headlong rush forward by the government,” she added. “You’ve got the impression that nothing else matters, it is all just collateral damage.”
“政府轻率地一拥而上，正是让我感到不安的地方，”她接着表示。“给人的印象是其他任何事都不重要，这完全是附带伤害。”
Even critics of the aggressive policing acknowledge that the government must be seen doing something to protect the shaky public.
即便是对强力维护治安的行动持批评意见的人也承认，政府必须让民众看到它正在采取行动，保护心惊胆战的公众。
At the same time, though, the critics worry that the drift toward a state where the police have the upper hand has discomfiting echoes in modern French history — the collaboration of the Vichy regime in World War II, for example — and they say authorities must be careful not to give in to panic.
但同时，批评人士也担心，向警察占上风的那种国家发展的趋势，让人想起了法国近代史上一些令人不安的先例，如二战期间维希(Vichy)政权的通敌。他们表示，当局必须谨慎行事，不要屈服于恐慌。
“Police searches and house arrests can now be ordered by the Interior Ministry and the prefects” — local officials under the control of Paris — “without judicial warrant,” noted Bénédicte Jeannerod of Human Rights Watch.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)的贝内迪克特·让纳罗(Bénédicte Jeannerod)注意到，“现在内政部和地方行政长官无需法庭授权，便可下令警方搜查和软禁。”
“These extrajudicial searches have shot up since the attacks, they are being carried out in haste, and under pressure from public opinion and the political class,” she said. That context, Ms. Jeannerod added, can only encourage human rights abuses and mistakes.
“袭击事件发生后，这种未按法律程序进行的搜查迅速增加，都是在舆论和政界的压力下仓促开展的，”她说。让纳罗接着表示，这种情形只会鼓励侵犯人权和错误执法。
Long faces in the capital, more soldiers patrolling landmarks like the Louvre Museum and empty streets speak to the preoccupation with security. Politicians all over the country say their constituents are talking of little else but the slaughter a little over two weeks ago, according to the French media.
首都民众神色凝重，卢浮宫博物馆(Louvre Museum)等地标性建筑周围巡逻士兵增加、街道空旷，显示安全问题受到了普遍关注。据法国媒体报道，法国各地的政界人物都表示，除了两周多以前发生的杀戮外，自己的选民几乎没有讨论别的问题。
Amid the continued jitters, the French police said they found a suicide belt on Monday afternoon in a garbage bin in Montrouge, in Paris’s 18th Arrondissement, said a former French intelligence official close to the investigations.
在持续的紧张不安中，一名接近调查的前法国情报官员表示，法国警方称周一下午在巴黎十八区蒙鲁日的一个垃圾桶里，发现了一个炸弹腰带。
The police say that it may have belonged to Salah Abdeslam, who had a role in the Paris attacks, because a cellphone of his had been matched to the location where the suicide belt was found. The former intelligence official also said that the Islamic State had claimed that the 18th Arrondissement was a target, but that an attack never materialized.
警方称炸弹腰带可能属于参与巴黎袭击的萨拉赫·阿布达斯兰(Salah Abdeslam)，因为他的一个手机和发现腰带的位置相符。上述前情报官员还表示，伊斯兰国声称十八区是袭击目标，但那里并未发生袭击。
“We’re in a period of total tension,” said Xavier Nogueras, a Paris lawyer who represents a handful of the 180 or so people placed under house arrest.
“我们现在处于全面紧张时期，”巴黎律师哈维尔·诺格拉斯(Xavier Nogueras)说，目前大约有180人遭到软禁，他是其中一些人的代理律师。
Mr. Nogueras’s clients are all Muslim, and are in the S-files that register those considered possible threats to the state. Participants in all the major terrorist attacks in France this year were in the S-files, too, including those in the attacks on Nov. 13.
诺格拉斯的当事人都是穆斯林，也都被列入了S档案。该档案中记录的是被认为对法国构成潜在威胁的人员。今年法国重大恐怖袭击事件的参与者也在该档案的名单中，其中包括在11月13日发动攻击的恐怖分子。
But Mr. Nogueras says his clients, under the house-arrest procedure, are shouldering an intolerable burden that they do not deserve. Simple attendance at a mosque under surveillance can land you in the S-files, he noted. The result has been a catastrophe for his clients, he said.
但诺格拉斯表示，他那些遭到软禁的当事人承担着不堪忍受的负担，他们不应该承受这些。他指出，只是去一趟受监控的清真寺，就会被列入S档案。他表示，对于他的当事人来说，后果非常严重。
Under the house-arrest rules, they must report to the local police station up to four times a day. “That is totally excessive,” said Mr. Nogueras. “These measures threaten individual liberties. For most of them,” he said, “who have a normal work life, they can’t even work any longer.
根据软禁规定，他们必须每天向当地警察局报告四次。“这太过分了，”诺格拉斯说。“这些举措威胁到个人自由。其中大部分人，”他说。“都做着普通的工作，他们甚至不能再工作了。”
“They are taking it extremely badly. Because mostly they have nothing to reproach themselves for. They are living a Western lifestyle.”
“这件事他们很难接受。因为他们基本上没有什么会受到指摘的地方，他们也过着西方式的生活。”
The Interior Ministry defended the exceptional measures in a news release on Friday. “These operations are going to continue,” the ministry’s statement said, noting “the government’s total determination to fight without mercy against terrorism, and every threat to public order.”
内政部在周五召开的新闻发布会上为这些非常举措辩解。内政部发表声明称，“这些行动将会继续实行。”还指出“政府决心要毫不留情地打击恐怖主义，以及公共秩序受到的所有威胁”。
A spokeswoman said in a text message on Monday that about 200 weapons had been discovered during the searches along with 77 “discoveries of narcotics.” In the Paris region alone, 300 or so searches have been made, with more than 10,000 police officers deployed. In Lyon, France, a man with a rocket-launcher was arrested.
一名女发言人在周一发送短消息称，警方在搜查行动中发现了大约200件武器，另外还有77宗案例中“发现了毒品”。仅在巴黎地区，警方就进行了大约300次搜查，部署了一万多名警察。在法国里昂，一名藏有火箭发射装置的男子被逮捕。
What can go wrong, in the wave of searches washing across France, was vividly illustrated on Monday in the newspaper Le Monde, which detailed the hapless police raid on the restaurant in the Paris suburbs. Photographs from a surveillance camera posted online show police in full body armor and helmets, stiffly posing among bemused customers.
法国《世界报》(Le Monde)在周一生动地展示了在席卷法国的搜查行动中，可能会出现什么问题。该报详细描述了倒霉的警察，突袭巴黎郊区餐厅的行动。网上流传的监控摄像头拍下的照片显示，全身包裹防弹衣、头戴头盔的警察，僵硬地站在一群困惑不解的食客中。