Word ping-ponged around the Korean enclaves of Queens, then onto the Internet, where it was picked up by Korean news media and sent in translation to the homeland. The situation inspired television news reports, an animated parody and on Thursday culminated in a summit on a Flushing street corner calling for a boycott: all because a McDonald’s had appeared to disrespect several older Korean people who treat a neighborhood branch of the fast-food chain like their living room.
消息在皇后区的韩裔社区传来传去，之后又传到了互联网上，接着被韩国的新闻媒体翻译成韩语，传回了韩国。这件事上了电视新闻，还有人创作了一部动画滑稽剧。周四，在法拉盛的一个街角，事件的发展达到了高潮，人们呼吁抵制麦当劳(McDonald's)。这一连串事件的起因是，麦当劳似乎对数名韩裔老人表现了不敬——这些老人把麦当劳在这个社区的分店当成了自家的客厅。
“This really is difficult,” Lisa McComb, a spokeswoman for McDonald’s, wrote in an email.
麦当劳的一位发言人莉莎·麦康姆(Lisa McComb)在一封电子邮件中写道，“这真的很棘手。”
“The restaurant has welcomed these guests for a long time,” she said, but the endless table sitting “has led to uncomfortable interactions with the McDonald’s workers.”
她说，“长期以来，这家餐厅一直欢迎这些客人。”然而他们无休无止地占着座位，“在他们和麦当劳工作人员之间，造成了令人不安的互动”。
On Thursday afternoon, several Korean community leaders hand-delivered a letter to a manager of the McDonald’s franchise at the corner of Parsons and Northern Boulevards, outlining their outrage that, over the past several months, the management has called 911 to oust older men and women who sit for hours hovering over a single cup of coffee.
周四下午，韩裔社区的数名领导人物，亲手向这家位于帕森大道和北方大道交叉口的麦当劳餐厅的经理递交了一封信函，表达自己的愤怒。在过去几个月里，一些长者只点一杯咖啡就在这家餐厅里坐上数小时，而餐厅的管理人员拨打911报警驱逐了这些老人。
“Senior citizens should not be treated as criminals,” said Christine Colligan, a leader of the Korean Parents Association of New York, as she stood outside the restaurant, her voice rising. “They should be respected.”
克莉丝汀·库利甘(Christine Colligan)站在这家餐厅门外说，“不应该把长者当成罪犯。”接着她抬高了调门，“他们应当受到尊重。”库利甘是纽约韩裔家长协会(Korean Parents Association of New York)的一名领导人物。
That morning, Ms. Colligan had contacted her sprawling network in the Korean community urging a “worldwide” boycott of the fast-food restaurant for the month of February. In a missive, she attacked what she saw as “stark racism” by McDonald’s: “We will teach them a lesson,” the letter said.
当天早上，库利甘在韩裔社区里广泛的人脉网里联系了很多人，呼吁在2月份对这家快餐店进行“世界性的”抵制。她在一份信函中攻击道，麦当劳的行为在她看来是“赤裸裸的种族歧视”，信中说“我们会给他们一个教训”。
Whether the Koreans, many in their 70s and 80s, were right or wrong to spend their days at the restaurant, arriving as early as 5 a.m. and buying as little as a $1.09 cup of coffee during their daylong stays, seemed not to matter much to the small but vocal group protesting against McDonald’s before an assortment of television cameras and photographers. What seemed to nettle the Korean community most was the perception that in asking police officers to remove the group, the business had been rude.
这些韩裔老人中有许多已经七八十岁了，他们清晨5点就会来到这家麦当劳，只买一杯1.09美元（约合6.6元人民币）的咖啡就在店里待一天。但对于站在众多摄像师和摄影师面前人数不多但言辞激烈的抗议者来说，那些老人整天待在餐馆里是对是错，似乎并没有那么重要。最令韩裔群体愤怒的似乎是餐厅报警驱赶这些老人，对他们表现了不敬。
“You call the police on your grandmother?” Ms. Colligan said.
库利甘说，“你会报警轰你奶奶吗？”
Officer Hee-Jin Park-Dance from the Community Affairs Bureau of the New York Police Department works out of Flushing. She said: “In Korea or any other Asian cultures, the elder is treated like gold. When you see an elder you get up, you give a seat right away. It’s a sign of respect.” In policing the area, she said, “you need to know your community.”
纽约市警察局(New York Police Department)社区事务部(Community Affairs Bureau)在法拉盛工作的职员喜珍·朴-丹斯（Hee-Jin Park-Dance，音译）说，“在韩国或其他亚洲国家的文化中，长者都很受敬重。见到长者时，是要立即起身让座的，这是表达尊重的做法。”她说，警方在这个地区工作时，“需要了解你的社区”。
Elected leaders were drawn into the imbroglio: A conference call was swiftly arranged between State Assemblyman Ron Kim, a Democrat, who represents Flushing and was the first Korean-American to have been elected to the Legislature, and the owner of the corner franchise, Jack Bert, according to Ms. McComb.
民选的政界人物也牵扯进了这团混战。麦康姆透露，纽约州议会民主党议员金兑锡(Ron Kim)与街角这座餐厅的老板杰克·伯特(Jack Bert)之间，很快就安排了一次电话会议。金兑锡代表法拉盛社区，是第一位当选纽约州议员的韩裔美国人。
More than discomfort is at stake: Staff members at the franchise said the ever-present older people caused the business to lose money. The patrons sat far longer than the 20 minutes requested on signs posted in the restaurant. Other customers asked for refunds, unhappy that there were no seats at which to eat a Happy Meal.
此事的影响并不仅仅是惹人不快。这家麦当劳店的员工表示，这些老人一直待着，已经给这家店造成了经济损失。店里的告示牌要求客人在20分钟内用完一餐，但这些老人待的时间要长得多。一些客人来吃“开心乐园餐”(Happy Meal)时发现没有座位，因而很不开心地要求退款。
“I’m sure you can imagine any business would find this situation to be difficult when customers prevent other customers from enjoying the restaurant,” Mr. Bert, the franchise’s operator, said in an emailed statement.
这家餐厅的经营者伯特在一份电子邮件声明中表示，“我敢肯定你能想象到，如果一群顾客让其他顾客无法在餐厅里用餐的话，任何一家企业都会感觉这种局面很棘手。”
Even among the community’s champions of business, like Young Jin Kim, the chairman of the Korean American Business Council of New York, there was little sympathy. “Respecting elders is particularly serious and important,” Mr. Kim said. That reverence can supersede business interests, he said.
但在韩裔社区中，即使是商界领袖也没有对此表达多少同情。比如，纽约韩裔美国人商业协会(Korean American Business Council of New York)会长金荣震（Young Jin Kim，音译）说，“尊重老人是尤其严肃和重要的事。”他还说，敬老比商业利益还重要。
Behind him, beyond the glass and golden arches, several older men sat watching inside the McDonald’s, sipping coffee.
在他身后，几位长者坐在麦当劳店里，一边呷着咖啡，一边隔着玻璃窗和麦当劳的金色拱形商标向外张望。