MOSCOW — Western nations should stop threatening Russia with new sanctions and instead offer to ease off on existing restrictions in exchange for progress in the peace process in Ukraine, President François Hollande of France said in an interview on Monday.
莫斯科——法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)周一接受采访时称，西方国家应停止用新的制裁威胁俄罗斯，并主动提出放松已有限制，以换取乌克兰和平进程的进展。
Backing President Vladimir V. Putin into a corner will not work, he said, giving a high-level voice to what is seen as mounting sanctions fatigue among European politicians, as the Ukraine crisis lurches into a second year.
他说，将俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)逼至绝境是没用的，随着乌克兰危机进入第二个年头，这番来自高层的言论，透露了欧洲政界对日渐升级的制裁感到疲倦。
“I’m not for the policy of attaining goals by making things worse,” Mr. Hollande said in the interview on France Inter radio. “I think that sanctions must stop now.”
“我不赞成通过让局势恶化来达到目的，”奥朗德在接受法国公共电台(France Inter radio)的采访时说。“我认为现在制裁必须停下来。”
Russia’s position is misunderstood, he suggested. “Mr. Putin does not want to annex eastern Ukraine, I am sure — he told me so,” Mr. Hollande said. “What he wants is to remain influential. What Mr. Putin wants is that Ukraine not become a member of NATO. The idea of Mr. Putin is to not have an army at Russia’s borders.”
他表示，俄罗斯的态度被误解了。“我确定普京不想吞并乌克兰东部，他是这么告诉我的，”奥朗德说。“他想的是维持影响力。普京希望乌克兰不要加入北约(NATO)。普京的意思是不想俄罗斯边境上出现一支军队。”
In Germany, a vice chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, also signaled concerns about the effect of sanctions on Russia’s stability.
德国副总理西格玛尔·加布里尔(Sigmar Gabriel)也表示担忧制裁对俄罗斯稳定的影响。
“The goal was never to push Russia politically and economically into chaos,” Mr. Gabriel told the Bild am Sonntag newspaper.
“制裁的目的不是让俄罗斯在政治和经济上陷入混乱，”加布里尔告诉《星期日图片报》(Bild am Sonntag)。
Germany is the most influential European voice on the sanctions issue, and it is widely assumed that little will happen without the approval of its chancellor, Angela Merkel. A spokesman for Ms. Merkel, Steffen Seibert, clarified to Reuters that “we have a very clear idea of what constitutes real progress” before Germany will consider lifting existing sanctions.
在制裁问题上，德国是最有影响力的欧洲国家。外界普遍认为，若没有德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的同意，几乎不会有什么变化。默克尔的发言人斯特芬·塞贝特(Steffen Seibert)向路透社(Reuters)澄清说，在“非常清楚地知道真正的进展是什么”后，德国才会考虑取消现有制裁。
Peace talks between the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, France and Germany are scheduled for Jan. 15, but Ms. Merkel will not attend unless a new agreement seems likely, Mr. Seibert said.
俄罗斯、乌克兰、法国和德国领导人之间的和平谈判定在1月15日，但塞贝特表示默克尔不会出席，除非可能会达成一项新协议。
Whatever Mr. Putin’s assurances to Mr. Hollande, in eastern Ukraine over the weekend an ataman, or Cossack leader, posted a video calling Mr. Putin “our emperor."
不管普京向奥朗德保证过什么，乌克兰东部的一名哥萨克首领周末上传了一段视频，称普京为“我们的皇帝”。
Nikolai Kozitsyn, who leads a Don Cossack group based in the town of Antracit that was never more than loosely affiliated with the main rebel organization in that area, the Luhansk People’s Republic, posted a video asserting that his territory was now part of the “Russian empire.”
尼古拉·科济岑(Nikolai Kozitsyn)是顿河哥萨克的一个组织的首领。该组织总部位于安特拉茨特镇，向来只是松散地附属于该地区主要的反对派组织卢甘斯克人民共和国(Luhansk People’s Republic)。科济岑发布的视频称，他控制的地盘现在是“俄罗斯帝国”的一部分。
“We won’t declare a Don Republic, that’s just a utopia,” Mr. Kozitsyn said in the video. “We say, ‘We are part of the Russian empire. And today, we consider Putin our emperor.’ "
“我们不会宣布成立顿河共和国，那只是一个空想，” 科济岑在视频中说。“我们要说，‘我们是俄罗斯帝国的一部分。现在，我们认为普京是我们的皇帝’。”
Violence in the east that had been waning picked up in recent days, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe reported Monday, particularly around the city of Donetsk, the monitoring group said.
欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)周一称，在乌克兰东部地区，此前有所缓和的暴力活动近日再度升温。这家监管组织说，在顿涅茨克市周围尤其如此。
In the other separatist region, Luhansk, lethal infighting has broken out among armed separatist groups.
在另一个分裂地区卢甘斯克，武装分裂组织之间爆发了冲突，并造成了人员死亡。
The Luhansk People’s Republic reported on its website that security officials had killed the commander of a pro-Russian militia known as the Batman Battalion, Alekandr Bednov, as he resisted arrest on extortion and murder charges. Mr. Bednov’s supporters, though, posted a video saying his car had been sprayed with bullets in an ambush, and that he was never offered the chance to surrender.
卢甘斯克人民共和国在其网站上称，该国的安全官员杀害了亲俄民兵组织“蝙蝠侠部队(Batman Battalion)”的指挥官亚历山大·别德诺夫(Alekandr Bednov)，原因是后者在因为敲诈和谋杀指控被捕时负隅抵抗。不过，别德诺夫的支持者发布视频称，他的汽车在伏击中遭遇密集的子弹袭击，根本没有机会表示投降。
Elsewhere in Ukraine, other, murkier violence is plaguing even cities far from the front lines. Bombers and assassins are targeting the many volunteer groups organizing donations of everything from food to body armor for the financially pressed Ukrainian military.
在乌克兰的其他地区，就连一些远离前线的城市也受到了一些较不明朗的冲突的困扰。志愿者团体成为炸弹和刺杀行动的目标，这些团体负责组织包括食物和防弹衣在内的各种物品的捐赠活动，为财政紧张的乌克兰军方提供支援。