PARIS — A second French citizen is among a group of Islamic State militants seen in a sequence of video clips that also shows a beheaded American aid worker, President François Hollande of France said Wednesday.
巴黎——法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)周三表示，通过伊斯兰国(Islamic State)公布的展示一名美国救援人员遭斩首的系列视频，确认其中的一群武装分子里面还有第二名法国公民。
Mr. Hollande, in Canberra, Australia, for a meeting of the Group of 20, said that it was not yet clear what function the two men performed for the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
奥朗德当时身处澳大利亚堪培拉，在参加20国集团的一次会议。他表示，尚不清楚这两名法国男性在伊斯兰国中发挥的作用。伊斯兰国又被简称为ISIS或ISIL。
“All we can say for now is that there are two French people who have been identified,” Mr. Hollande said, according to The Associated Press. He added that he was concerned that French citizens of various backgrounds were being “brainwashed” into joining the ranks of militants in Iraq and Syria.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，奥朗德称，“我们现在只能披露，确认了其中两名法国人的身份。”他还表示，有背景各异的法国公民在被“洗脑”，前往伊拉克和叙利亚加入武装分子的行列，这让他颇为忧虑。
Earlier this week, Maxime Hauchard, a 22-year-old from Normandy who converted to Islam at 17, was tentatively identified among a group of militants appearing in a long segment of the video that shows the execution of Syrian soldiers. A shorter segment shows Peter Kassig, an American aid worker and former Army Ranger, after his apparent beheading.
本周早些时候，法国初步认定，在展示处决一批叙利亚政府军士兵的一则长视频片段中，武装分子里面有一人是马克西姆·奥沙尔(Maxime Hauchard)。他现年22岁，来自诺曼底，17岁时皈依伊斯兰教。另有一则较短的片段似乎显示了曾在美国陆军突击队服役的救援工作者彼得·卡西格(Peter Kassig)遭斩首之后的画面。
On Wednesday, Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre, a spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor’s office, said there was strong evidence to suggest that Michaël Dos Santos, 22, from a working-class suburb southeast of Paris, was among the militants who appeared unmasked in the video. The video also showed a masked executioner with a British accent who has been nicknamed “Jihadi John” in the British news media.
周三的时候，巴黎检察长办公室发言人阿涅丝·蒂博-勒居弗尔(Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre)宣布，有力的证据显示，视频中露出面目的一群武装分子中间，有一人是米夏埃尔·多斯桑托斯(Michaël Dos Santos)。他现年22岁，来自巴黎东南城郊的工薪阶层家庭。视频中还有一名带有英国口音的蒙面刽子手现身。英国媒体给此人起的绰号是“圣战约翰”(Jihadi John)。
The French authorities say they believe that Mr. Dos Santos recently left France for Syria to join Islamic State militants.
法国当局表示，他们认为多斯桑托斯近期离开了法国前往叙利亚，为的是加入伊斯兰国武装分子的行列。
France is considering how to deal with an estimated 1,132 citizens who have left or who plan to join the ranks of jihadi groups in Syria and Iraq. The government is so concerned about the consequences of young people becoming radicalized and returning to France that it recently approved legislation to prevent those suspected of being jihadists from leaving the country.
据估计，法国有1132名公民已经或计划前往叙利亚和伊拉克加入圣战团体。当局正在考虑如何加以应对。对于年轻人变为激进分子并返回法国带来的后果，政府十分担忧，于是近期批准了一项立法，以便阻止这些疑似圣战分子离开法国。
Both young Frenchmen appear to fit a pattern of young men from non-Muslim backgrounds who turn to radical Islam for self-affirmation.
视频中确认身份的这两名法国年轻人似乎遵循了一种模式：非穆斯林背景的男青年诉诸极端伊斯兰教来达到自我认同。
The French media have reported that Mr. Dos Santos surprised friends by abruptly converting to Islam. According to the radio broadcaster France Info, French intelligence services appear to have known that he was in Syria, and he had posted photographs of himself on one of his Twitter accounts, dressed in combat gear. France Info said his mother had helped the authorities to identify him.
法国媒体报道，多斯桑托斯突然皈依了伊斯兰教，让朋友们大吃一惊。根据法国新闻广播电台(France Info)的说法，该国情报部门似乎事先掌握了他在叙利亚的消息，而且他还通过自己的一个Twitter账户张贴了本人身着战斗服装的照片。法国新闻广播电台还称，他的母亲帮助当局指认了自己的儿子。
Prosecutors said Mr. Hauchard left France for Syria in August 2012 under the pretext of wanting to do humanitarian work. He initially came under the scrutiny of French law enforcement officials after he became involved in extremist groups and was seen on websites that were promoting jihad.
检察部门表示，奥沙尔于2012年8月离开法国前往叙利亚，采用的借口是从事人道主义工作。他之所以当初引起了法国执法部门的注意，是因为他开始卷入极端团体，并被发现流连于宣扬圣战的网站。
Earlier this year, Mr. Hauchard described in a Skype interview with the television channel BFMTV how he had joined the Islamic State, which “established the laws of Allah on earth,” after watching videos on the Internet. He said he had traveled to Syria on his own.
今年早些时候，奥沙尔通过Skype接受BFM电视台采访，讲述了他观看网上视频后加入伊斯兰国的经历。他说，伊斯兰国“在人间确立了安拉的教法”。他还表示，自己是只身前往叙利亚的。