LES ÉCHETS, France — There was a time when frogs’ legs drowned in butter and garlic were standard fare at just about every bistro in France. Then two things happened.
法国莱塞雪——蘸着黄油和蒜泥的蛙腿一度是法国几乎每家餐馆的标准菜色。然后，发生了两件事情。
First, tastes changed. With the advent of nouvelle cuisine in the 1970s, cuisses de grenouilles lost their cachet, as did country pâté, lamb kidneys in Dijon mustard sauce, duck à l’orange and profiteroles.
首先，人们的口味改变了。随着20世纪70年代法式“新烹饪”的出现，蛙腿就和乡村肉派、第戎芥末羊腰、鲜橙鸭胸以及泡芙一样，丧失了原有的地位。
Second, frogs became an endangered species worthy of protection by the state. In 1980, France banned the capture, transport and marketing of live French frogs. Most frogs that end up on dinner plates here these days have to be imported, either live from places like Poland, Albania and the former Yugoslavia, or as frozen legs from Indonesia and China.
其次，蛙类已经成为一种受到政府保护的濒危物种。1980年，法国禁止了捕捉、运输和买卖法国青蛙。如今在这里，出现在餐盘上的蛙类大部分都必须通过进口，要么是来自波兰、阿尔巴尼亚和前南斯拉夫等地的活蛙，要么是来自印度尼西亚和中国的冷冻蛙腿。
But search hard enough and you will find a believer in just about everything edible in France. I found my frog lover in Christophe Marguin, 45, a fourth-generation proprietor-chef at the hotel and -restaurant that bear his name 10 miles outside Lyon.
但在法国，只要努力搜寻，你就能找到几乎任何一种食物的信徒。我找到的爱蛙之人是45岁的克里斯托弗·马圭因(Christophe Marguin)，他是里昂城10英里外一家酒店餐厅的第四代老板兼厨师，该餐厅以他的家族命名。
His establishment, painted Chinese red, opened in 1906 as a way station for travelers on the highway between Lyon and Strasbourg. Mr. Marguin’s great-grandfather pumped gasoline from a single pump; his great-grandmother prepared hearty meals with carp, pike, crayfish and frogs fished out of the family pond.
这家餐厅墙面刷成中国红的颜色，创办于1906年，当时是在里昂和斯特拉斯堡的高速公路中间作为旅行者的驿站。马圭因的曾祖父用仅有的一个油泵给人加油；他的曾祖母则靠从家族鱼塘里捕捞的鲤鱼、梭鱼、小龙虾和青蛙做出丰盛的饭菜。
The first member of the family to attempt upscale cuisine was Jacques Marguin, Christophe’s father, who had been first apprentice to the food legend Paul Bocuse. Jacques learned all about frogs from his mother, who gave him the task of killing, skinning and cutting off the heads of the catch every day before school.
家族里第一个试图进军高档烹饪领域的是克里斯托弗的父亲雅克·马圭因(Jacques Marguin)，他曾是饮食界传奇人物保罗·博古斯(Paul Bocuse)的首徒。雅克所知道的关于蛙的一切，是从他母亲那里学来的。母亲曾经给他每天上学前的任务，就是将捕来的蛙宰杀、剥皮和切去蛙头。
Today, the restaurant is a temple to frogs. Frog oil paintings adorn the walls. Frog figurines — in glass, china, metal, plastic and pottery — perch on display-case shelves. Stone frogs stand guard at the entrance. Green frogs have been painted on the custom-made china plates by Bernardaud. (Bernardaud’s first frogs weren’t very pretty, so Christophe went to the chinamaker’s office on the Rue Royale and watched as they were repainted.)
如今，这家餐厅是一座蛙的圣殿。蛙的油画装饰着墙壁；各种蛙类雕像——玻璃的、瓷质的、金属的、塑料的和陶质的——栖息在架子上的陈列框格中；石雕的蛙在入口处守卫，由柏图(Bernardaud)名瓷特别订制的陶瓷餐盘上也画着绿色的青蛙（柏图制作的首批青蛙图画并不是很漂亮，于是克里斯托弗就去了这家瓷器制造商在皇家街的办公室，亲自盯着他们重画）。
“Frogs are mythical, delicate creatures,” Christophe Marguin said. “They deserve respect.”
“蛙是神秘、美妙的东西，”克里斯托弗·马圭因说，“它们值得受到尊重。”
This is not the place to come if you don’t like butter, cream and lots of drink. When Mr. Marguin poured me a glass of Champagne before noon, and I said it was a bit early for me, his eyes widened as if to say, “Who is this American puritan and what is she doing here?”
如果你不喜欢黄油、奶油和大量的酒，这就不是一个适合你来的地方。马圭因还没到中午就给我倒了一杯香槟，我说这对我来说有点儿早，他就瞪起了眼，仿佛在说：“这个美国清教徒是谁呀，她还到这里来干什么呢？”
He served me frogs four different ways. First came a potato galette stuffed with shredded pieces of frogs’ legs and mushrooms on a sauce of parsley, butter, garlic, almond powder, white wine and cream. Then came scrambled eggs with black caviar, chives, slivers of frog and a touch of cream. That was followed by a crusty tart filled with mousseron mushrooms and olive-shaped pieces of frog meat in a white wine sauce.
他用四道不同的蛙类菜色招待了我。第一道是土豆煎饼，里面填入了切碎的蛙腿肉和蘑菇，配上用香菜、黄油、蒜、杏仁粉、白葡萄酒和奶油做成的酱汁。然后上来的是用黑鱼子酱、小香葱、蛙肉薄片和一点奶油做成的炒鸡蛋。随后的是一种硬皮蛋挞，里面填满了法式蘑菇和切成橄榄形状的蛙肉，并加上了一种白葡萄酒酱汁。
For the finale, the classic sautéed frogs’ legs in butter, Mr. Marguin invited me into the kitchen. He heated butter in a large frying pan until it sizzled and formed bubbles an inch in diameter. “You have to watch the mousse rise in the pan and turn nut-colored,” he said. “That’s the secret to success.”
而最后一道，就是经典的黄油嫩煎蛙腿。做这道菜的时候，马圭因还把我请进了厨房。他用一个很大的煎锅把黄油煮热，直到它发出咝咝的响声，并且冒起直径一英寸的气泡。“你得看着这些油沫在锅里冒起来，并且变成果仁色，”他说，“这是成功的秘诀。”
Then he threw in tiny frogs whose heads, feet, skin, spine and insides had been excised. As the frogs turned crispy brown, he flipped them over one by one until they were equally done. Then he showered them with raw chopped parsley and garlic and slipped them under the broiler for five seconds.
然后，他把那些已经去掉头、脚、皮、脊椎和内脏的小蛙扔进去。到了蛙肉变为松脆的褐色时，他就把它们一块一块地翻过来，直到它们都均匀地煎熟。然后他再在上面洒上切碎的新鲜芫荽和大蒜，将它们推进一个烘烤机里烤五秒钟。
“They taste best when eaten with your fingers,” he said. Easier said than done. It’s hard to take notes with buttery fingers, and even harder to look elegant when butter is dripping down your chin. I eventually found my rhythm, popping the frog whole in my mouth, sucking out the flesh and tossing out the bones.
他说：“用手抓着吃最美味。”说起来倒是容易。手指沾着黄油，要做笔记就难了，而当黄油从你下巴流下来的时候，想要显得优雅就更难。最终，我还是找到了节奏：将蛙肉整块塞进嘴里，把肉吮掉，然后将骨头吐出来。
Each dish was paired with its own wine, all from 2008: a Beaune Clos des Mouches by Joseph Drouhin, a Meursault Clos de la Barre Domaine des Comtes Lafon, a Domaine Pierre Amiot et Fils, a Charmes-Chambertin Grand Cru. Two very old Chartreuses followed coffee and dessert.
每一道菜都各自配了一款葡萄酒，全是出自2008年的：一杯出自约瑟夫杜鲁安(Joseph Drouhin)的慕丝谷干红(Beaune Clos des Mouches)，一杯拉芳酒庄默尔索-巴尔勒堡(Meursault Clos de la Barre Domaine des Comtes Lafon)，一杯” Domaine Pierre Amiot et Fils”，一杯勃根地夏姆香贝丹特级庄园(Charmes-Chambertin Grand Cru)。在咖啡和甜品之后，是两杯非常陈年的法国草药力娇酒(Chartreuse)。
Mr. Marguin is a collector, and his collections extend far beyond frogs. He has framed and hung the monogrammed uniforms of many of France’s most famous chefs (which they have signed) on the wall leading to the main dining room. He has about 2,500 menus from meals served at the Élysée Palace by French heads of state going back to Charles de Gaulle. His wine cellar contains not only fine wines and spirits, including a 1967 Chateau d’Yquem, it also hold his collection of dozens of Champagne buckets and Coca-Cola, Perrier and Badoit bottles.
马圭因是个收藏家，而他的收藏远远超出了蛙的范畴。在通往主饭厅的走廊墙壁上，他装裱并且挂起了许多法国顶尖名厨的制服，上面都绣着人名的首字母（并且他们还都签了名）。他有大约2500份菜单，来自国家元首们在爱丽舍宫招待客人时的宴席，一直可以上溯到夏尔·戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)。在他的酒窖里封存的不仅有优雅的葡萄酒和烈性酒——包括一瓶1967年的滴金酒庄甜白葡萄酒(Chateau d’Yquem)——而且还存放着他所收藏的几十个香槟酒桶，还有可口可乐、巴黎水(Perrier)和波多矿泉水(Badoit)的瓶子。
Then there is the underwear collection. Mr. Marguin’s father, Jacques, never liked to throw out anything. So when the stems of wine glasses broke, he used the glasses for tastings — storing them upside down. Without a base, the taster could not put down the glass and therefore had to drink its entire contents.
然后，还有内衣收藏。马圭因的父亲雅克从来都不喜欢把东西扔掉。如果高脚杯的细茎断了，他就用那些杯子来品酒，贮存时倒扣着放。没有了底座，品酒者就无法将杯子放下，于是也不得不将杯中酒全部喝尽。
That led to a lot of inebriated tasters. It seems that to show their appreciation, many women left behind their bras. A clothesline of several dozen bras (lacy and racy, striped and sporty) hangs behind the tasting bar. Somewhere along the way, the men followed suit; a smaller number of boxer shorts and briefs hang nearby.
这导致许多品酒者都会喝醉。仿佛是为了表达仰慕感激之情，很多女士将文胸留在了这里。品酒的吧台后面挂着一根晾衣绳，上面挂了几十个文胸（有豪放的蕾丝款，也有活力的条纹款）。后来男士们也开始仿效了，少量的平脚内裤和三角裤就挂在旁边。
I decided it would be a conflict of interest to add to the collection. “Very creative,” I said, and moved on.
我想，要是我也给这收藏贡献一分力量的话，恐怕会造成风格上的冲突。于是我只说了一句“很有创意”就走开了。
Early the next morning, Mr. Marguin and I drove two hours south to Pierrelatte in the far southwest of the Drôme. Here is France’s most important nuclear reactor and chemical industrial site. Here is also a commercial frog farm, one of several around the country, that opened for business in 2010 and is not affected by the ban on capturing frogs. It was the first visit for both of us.
第二天一早，我和马圭因向南开了两小时的车来到德龙省(Drôme)西南角的皮耶尔雷拉特(Pierrelatte)。这里是法国最重要的核反应堆和化工基地，也是全国各地几个商业蛙类农场之一。农场开设于2010年，并且没有受到捕蛙禁令的影响。我们二人都是第一次到访这里。
The farm consists of a large prefabricated building in a field. We knew we had found the place because as we approached, we could hear the male frogs singing mating songs. They were too small to do any deep-throated croaking; they sounded more like a cross between hungry gulls and squealing pigs.
这个农场是田野上一座用预制构件组合而成的大型建筑。我们走近时，就知道找对了地方，因为能够听到雄蛙们唱着求偶的歌声。它们太小，还发不出低沉的蛙鸣；它们的声音更像是某种饥饿的海鸥和猪叫声的结合。
Inside were about 140 thermoplastic basins of various sizes. They are fed with water at a constant temperature, and filled with frogs at various stages of 10-month lives, from eggs to tadpoles to 50-gram adults ready for killing. The frogs are refrigerated until they don’t move. Mr. François uses a scissors to cut off their heads and feet, and a knife to skin them and cut out their guts.
建筑内部是大约140个各种大小的热塑性塑料养殖盆。里面都装着恒温的水，并且装满青蛙，处于它们10个月寿命中的各个阶段，从卵细胞到蝌蚪到体重50克、准备被宰杀的成年蛙。被宰杀的蛙会被冷冻，直到不再动弹，弗朗索瓦会用剪刀剪掉它们的头和脚，再用刀将它们去皮和掏空内脏。
“My parents are fishmongers, so I know frogs,” said Patrice François, 48, the founder of the business. “They teach you patience.”
“我的父母是鱼贩子，所以我也了解蛙，”这家企业的创始人、48岁的帕特里丝·弗朗索瓦说，“它们能教会你耐心。”
He showed me how frogs mate. The male grasps the female under the forelegs in an embrace. He climbs on her back and reaches his arms around her waist. Group sex is normal. Another male may decide that the female is so desirable, he needs to join in. He climbs on the back of the male in an effort to overpower and dislodge him. During the embrace, the male frog fertilizes the eggs as they are laid. The mating can take up to a month, so there were several threesomes of frogs in patient, multilevel embrace.
他展示给我看，蛙是如何交配的。雄蛙把住雌蛙，用拥抱的姿势将它压在前脚下，然后再爬到雌蛙背上，用双臂围住雌蛙的腰部。群交是很常见的。另一只雄蛙或许会认定，这只雌蛙太有魅力，它也要加入。然后它就会爬到那只雄蛙背上，努力打败和赶走它。在这场拥抱交合中，雄蛙会在雌蛙的卵子排出来时使之受精。交配期可以持续达一个月，所以当时就有好几组蛙的“三人行”，它们颇有耐心地层层叠叠拥抱在一起。
As we watched, Mr. François’s wife, Catherine, culled the biggest frogs from a basin. “Frogs eat anything that moves, and the dominants would take over and I would be left with no frogs and no business,” Mr. François said.
在我们观看的时候，弗朗索瓦的妻子凯瑟琳从一个养殖盆里捡起了那些最大的蛙。“凡是会动的东西，蛙都会吃，占据统治优势的蛙会吃掉一切，那样的话，我就没有蛙，也没有生意了，”弗朗索瓦说。
Mr. Marguin, who buys frogs in various sizes from a distributor who gets them live from Albania and the former Yugoslavia, was intrigued. He invited Mr. François to a meal at his restaurant. The two of them should do business, he said.
这一切激起了马圭因的兴趣。他是从一个经销商那里买进各种大小的蛙类的，而经销商则是从阿尔巴尼亚和前南斯拉夫引进活蛙。马圭因邀请弗朗索瓦到他的餐厅里吃一顿饭。他说，他们俩应该合作做生意。
I was hoping to parlay all this firsthand knowledge about frogs into an invitation to go gigging with my friend Ron, who owns a farm near Lynchburg, Va.
我想借所有这些关于蛙类的第一手知识，来换取我朋友罗恩(Ron)的邀请。他在弗吉尼亚州林奇堡附近拥有一个农场，我想去他那里捕蛙。
Frog gigging is a tradition in those parts. You row out onto a freshwater pond at night armed with a flashlight to stun the frogs and a pole tipped with a long, multipronged spear to catch and kill them. Back at your barn or garage (the kitchen’s too fancy for this sort of thing), you soak them in buttermilk, dredge them in flour or Shake ’n Bake, deep-fry them in vegetable oil and eat them hot with your fingers, along with a cold beer.
在那些地方，捕蛙是一种传统。晚上，你在一个活水池塘上划船出去，带着用来让青蛙发晕的手电筒，和一根有多个尖头的长叉子，用来捕杀它们。回到库房或者车库（对于这种事情，厨房显得太精致了），你就将它们泡在酪乳里，撒上面粉或者“Shake ’n Bake”炸鸡粉，再用植物油炸熟，然后就着冰啤酒，趁热用手抓着吃。
Ron declined my entreaty for an invitation. “This is a Southern thing,” he said. “And you have to be a good ol’ boy.”
罗恩拒绝了我的恳求。“这是南方的东西，”他说，“而你要做一个乖孩子。”