BOSTON — He cannot mingle, speak or pray with other prisoners. His only visitors are his legal team, a mental health consultant and his immediate family, who apparently have seen him only rarely.
波士顿——他无法和其他犯人打交道、交谈或祈祷。他唯一的访客是自己的律师团队，一名心理健康顾问和他的直系亲属，后者似乎很少会来探望他。
He may write only one letter — three pages, double-sided — and place one telephone call each week, and only to his family. If he reads newspapers and magazines, they have been stripped of classified ads and letters to the editor, which the government deems potential vehicles for coded messages. He watches no television, listens to no radio. He ventures outside infrequently, and only to a single small open space.
每周，他可以写一封信——三页双面信纸——打一次电话，而且对象只能是他的家人。如果他要读报刊杂志，狱方会去除其中的分类广告和读者来信。政府认为，这些版面可能会成为暗语的载体。他不看电视，也不听广播。他很少走出监房，最多也只能去一块狭小的开放空间。
It has been nearly a year since police officers found Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in a suburban Boston backyard, hiding in a boat there, wounded by gunfire. Today he passes time in a secure federal medical facility, awaiting a November trial on charges that he helped plan and execute the Boston Marathon bombing a year ago on Tuesday, which killed three people and wounded at least 260, and a killing and kidnapping spree that forced an entire city into lockdown.
自从警察在波士顿郊外的一个院子里找到身受枪伤、藏身在一艘船上的焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)以来，时间已过去了近一年。今天，他在一家守卫森严的联邦医疗机构内度日，等待着11月的审判。他被控协助策划并实施了波士顿马拉松(Boston Marathon)爆炸案。此次爆炸导致三人死亡，至少260人受伤，其中发生了杀戮和劫持，迫使当局封锁了整个波士顿。本周二距离爆炸案发生正好一周年。
Now, at age 20, it is his turn to be effectively walled off from the outside world, imprisoned under so-called special administrative measures approved by the United States attorney general. The restrictions are reserved for inmates considered to pose the greatest threat to others — even though, privately, federal officials say there is little of substance to suggest that Mr. Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan were anything but isolated, home-grown terrorists. A court order bars his legal advisers and family from disclosing anything he has told or written them.
现在，根据美国司法部长批准的所谓特别行政措施，轮到20岁的萨纳耶夫正式与外界隔绝、关入监狱了。这种限制的实施对象都是被认为将对他人构成巨大威胁的囚犯，不过联邦官员还是在私下里表示，没有多少证据表明，焦哈尔和他的哥哥塔梅尔兰(Tamerlan)不是孤立的、在美国成长起来的恐怖分子。法院下令，禁止他的法律顾问和家人把他说的话或写的东西披露给外界。
Court documents and a snippet of a phone conversation with his family, released before the measures were imposed, offer glimpses into his life. Last May, he told his parents in Dagestan that “everything is good,” that he was eating meals of chicken and rice and that supporters had deposited about $1,000 in a bank account set up on his behalf.
法院的文件，再加上特殊措施实施之前他和家人的通话片段，让人得以一窥他的生活。去年5月，他对身在达吉斯坦的父母说“一切都不错”，他吃的餐食中有鸡肉和米饭，他的支持者也在以他的名字设立的银行账号中存入了大约1000美元（约合6220元人民币）。
And he gets cards and letters: at least a thousand so far, many, his lawyers have written, from people urging him to convert to Christianity. But there are others as well, from admirers and backers who believe he is innocent.
到目前为止，他至少收到了1000张卡片和信件。他的律师写道，许多都来自那些敦促他皈依基督教的民众。不过，也有一些卡片和信件来自他的崇拜者和支持者，他们认为他是无辜的。
Crystel Clary, a single mother in Wisconsin who turns 35 on Tuesday, is one of them. She says she has written Mr. Tsarnaev 10 times beginning a month after the April 15 bombing, offering moral support and news tidbits about such things as Eminem’s latest album and new movies. Prison authorities returned birthday and Valentine’s Day cards, she said, stating that she is not approved to write to Mr. Tsarnaev. Ms. Clary said that the letters have not been returned, and she has not received any replies from Mr. Tsarnaev. Her Twitter account nevertheless features photographs of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and Tamerlan, who was killed by the police during a manhunt for the two men.
周二年满35岁的威斯康星州单身母亲克里斯泰尔·克拉里(Crystel Clary)就是当中的一个。她说，自4月15日的爆炸案发生一个月后，她给萨纳耶夫写了10次信。她在信里对他给予了道德支持和一些简短消息，比如艾米纳姆(Eminem)的最新专辑，以及新上映的电影。她说，狱方把生日贺卡和情人节贺卡给退了回来，并称她没有得到许可，不得给萨纳耶夫写信。克拉里说，她写的信还没被退回来，但她还没有收到萨纳耶夫的任何回复。尽管如此，她依然在自己的Twitter账号里展示了焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫和塔梅尔兰的照片，后者在警方抓捕二人的行动中被击毙。
“You can tell he didn’t do it,” she said. “There is too much suspicious stuff going on in this case.”
她说，“看得出来他不是凶手，这个案子有太多疑点。”
In court documents, prosecutors appear to have amassed an arsenal of evidence from thousands of pages of documents and terabytes of digital information, including what they say is Mr. Tsarnaev’s hospital-bed confession and a call for others to wage holy war against Americans.
在法庭文件中，检方似乎从数千页文件和万亿字节的数字信息中搜集到了大量证据，其中包括了他们所说的萨纳耶夫在医院病床上的供词，以及他号召别人对美国人发动圣战的鼓动。
They are fodder for 30 criminal charges against him. Seventeen of them carry the death penalty. The federal court in Massachusetts, seldom accused of hurrying a case along, has given the two sides 19 months to prepare for a trial that the prosecution says could last three months.
检方依靠这些证据，对他提起了30项刑事指控，其中17项指控足以判处他死刑。马萨诸塞州联邦法院审理案件一向不慌不忙，这次给控辩双方留出了19个月的时间准备庭审。检方说，审理过程可能会长达三个月。
Mr. Tsarnaev’s public-defender legal team — five attorneys, at least two investigators, a brace of paralegals and aides — has in turn called 19 months a “rocket schedule,” far too little time for the scorched-earth defense it appears to be assembling. They have filed repeated demands for sweeping access to prosecutors’ files and, according to prosecutors’ bitter complaint, ignored court rules requiring them to hand over considerably less information than the prosecution is being asked to give.
萨纳耶夫的公共辩护法律团队包括五名律师、至少两名调查员，以及一群律师帮办和助理。团队后来称，19个月是“火箭般的时间表”，对于他们正在构建的焦土式辩护策略来说，这点时间实在有限。检方强烈抱怨，萨纳耶夫的辩护团队再三要求全面接触检方的文件，而且法庭要求他们提供的信息本已远比检方要少，但他们却对移交裁定置若罔闻。
Mr. Tsarnaev spends his days in Federal Medical Center in Devens, Mass., a men-only prison hospital that houses 1,042 inmates and 131 others at an adjacent minimum-security camp. His health is unknown, although court documents hint that he has overcome at least the worst of injuries suffered during the manhunt that led to his capture last April.
萨纳耶夫被关在马萨诸塞州德文斯的联邦医疗中心(Federal Medical Center)。这是一座只收治男性的监狱医院，关有1042人，还有131人待在比邻的一座安全级别最低的营地内。萨纳耶夫的健康情况不为外界所知，不过法院文件提供的线索表明，他在抓捕行动中受到的最严重的伤势至少已经愈合。警方的行动导致他于去年4月落网。
The location and terms of his confinement are set by United States marshals, and there is some leeway in the degree of isolation they impose: the administrative measures, for example, technically allow Mr. Tsarnaev to write one letter a month, but in practice he can send one a week.
他被关押的地点和时限由联邦法警决定。对他实施单独囚禁时，力度上留下了一定的余地：例如，从技术角度说，特殊行政措施只准每个月写一封信，不过实际上，他能每周发一封。
Beyond being segregated from other prisoners — for their security and his, the government has stated — Mr. Tsarnaev may well spend little time outside his cell, period.
除了把萨纳耶夫和其他在押人员隔开之外——政府声称，这么做是为了他自己和其他人的安全——他大可利用在外面放风的一点点时间。但仅此而已。