BOSTON — Over the long, cold winter, Boston has been preparing a ceremony to honor those killed and injured in last year’s marathon and to stage a race that will be one of the biggest — and, they said Monday, the safest.
波士顿——在漫长、寒冷的冬季里，波士顿筹备了一场仪式来纪念去年马拉松赛上遇难和受伤的人们，他们在周一还说，将举办一场有史以来最大、最安全的赛事。
The 118th running of the Boston Marathon, scheduled for April 21, has drawn a huge field of about 36,000 runners, which is capacity for the course and 9,000 more than last year. The runners include thousands who were forced to stop last year after the explosions and thousands more who want to show their solidarity with Boston. (The record number was set in 1996 at the marathon’s centennial celebration, when 38,708 runners entered.)
第118届波士顿马拉松赛定于4月21日举行，已经吸引到多达3.6万名选手报名，这是赛道的容纳极限，比去年多了9000人。这些选手中有数千人曾在去年爆炸发生后被迫中断比赛，还有数千人是想表达与波士顿的同心协济。（目前的纪录是1996年马拉松赛一百周年庆典时创下的，当时有3万8708人参赛。）
At least one million spectators, twice the usual crowd, are expected to gather along the 26.2-mile course, many of them at the finish line on Boylston Street, where two bombs exploded, killing three people and injuring 260 others.
观众人数预计将是通常的两倍，达到至少一百万人，他们会分散在全长26.2英里（约合42.1公里）的赛道上，其中很多人会在位于博伊斯顿街的终点线，造成三人死亡、260人受伤的两枚炸弹就是在那里引爆的。
The security challenge is immense, in part because the event is spread across eight cities and towns along a route lined by spectators on both sides.
安保面临着巨大的挑战，其中一个原因是这项赛事全程途经八座城镇，赛道两旁都会有观众。
More than 3,500 police officers, twice last year’s number, will be deployed, public safety officials said here Monday at a news conference outlining their security plans. Those plans include plainclothes officers, private security contractors, numerous security checkpoints with metal detectors, bomb-sniffing dogs and hundreds of surveillance cameras.
公共安全官员周一在这里的新闻发布会上简要介绍了他们的安保计划，称将部署超过3500名警力，是去年的两倍。计划中包括便衣警察、私营安保承包商、不计其数的安保检查点，配备金属探测器、炸弹嗅探犬和成百上千个监控摄像头。
Spectators are being encouraged to carry their belongings in clear plastic bags to speed up security screening and not to carry backpacks or coolers, wear vests with pockets, or bring baby strollers. Fanny packs are allowed if they measure smaller than 5 inches by 15 inches by 5 inches.
有关方面呼吁观众使用透明塑料袋携带他们的随身物品，以便加快安检进度，不要使用背包或便携冰盒，穿有口袋的背心，或推婴儿车。小于5×15×5英寸（约合12.7×38.1×12.7厘米）的腰包可以携带。
Officials said they had met with security personnel around the world in preparation for this year’s marathon, including several sessions with the New York City Police Department and security officials in London.
官员称，为了准备今年的马拉松赛，他们已经和世界各地的安保人士会面过，包括和纽约市警察局以及伦敦的安全官员进行的数次会谈。
“We have to get this right 110 percent of the time; the bad guys only have to get lucky once,” said Kieran L. Ramsey, assistant special agent in charge of the F.B.I.’s Boston office.
“我们必须在110%的时间里保持不犯错；坏人只需要走一次运就足够了，”美国联邦调查局(FBI)驻波士顿办公室助理特工主管基耶伦·L·拉姆西(Kieran L. Ramsey)说。
Despite the intense security upgrades, officials said they did not want Boston to appear to be a police state and they were trying to retain the festive and traditional character of the event, the oldest continuously run marathon in the world.
尽管安保大幅升级，官员们还是表示，他们不希望让波士顿显得如临大敌，他们会努力保持节日的气氛和赛事的传统特征，这是全世界连续举办的马拉松赛事中最古老的一项。