WARSAW — This year the Czech Republic selected, as its Oscar candidate for Best Foreign Language Film, a picture by the Polish director Agnieszka Holland. This was the first time the Czech Film Academy had ever nominated a foreigner. Last week, however, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences disqualified the film, without explaining its reasoning.
华沙——今年，捷克共和国选择了一部由波兰导演阿格涅丝卡·霍兰(Agnieszka Holland)执导的电影，角逐本届奥斯卡最佳外语片奖。这是捷克电影学院(Czech Film Academy)首次提名一位外籍人士。但在上周，美国电影艺术与科学学会(Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences )取消了这部电影的参选资格，没有解释原因。
Ms. Holland has been nominated for an Oscar several times in the past, and she will no doubt be nominated again. The interesting question is: What did a Polish director do to deserve such an honor from the Czechs?
霍兰曾数次获得奥斯卡奖提名，而且她无疑将再次被提名。但有趣的是：这位波兰籍导演究竟做了什么，值得捷克人给她这样的荣誉？
The film, “Burning Bush,” tells the story of Jan Palach, a student who set himself on fire in January 1969, after the Soviets suppressed the Prague Spring.
《燃烧布拉格之春》(Burning Bush)讲述的是1969年1月，一位名叫扬·帕拉赫(Jan Palach)的学生在苏联镇压布拉格之春(Prague Spring)后自焚而死的故事。
The film’s true focus is not Palach, who dies in the first few minutes, but Czech society. Palach’s self-immolation was in protest not against the military invasion, but against the passivity and indifference of the people around him.
这部电影的真正关注的不是帕拉赫，帕拉赫在影片开始几分钟后就死了，它关注的是捷克社会。帕拉赫自焚抗议的不是军事入侵，而是周围人的逆来顺受和无动于衷。
Up until now, the Czechs have been unable to come to terms with this event or even talk about it. They waited for a prophet from abroad.
捷克人至今无法正确看待这件事，甚至不愿谈论它。他们在等待一位来自国外的先知。
In Palach’s case, this had to be a Pole, because Palach is a typically Polish hero, romantic and suicidal. He is as different from the typical Czech hero as Warsaw is from Prague — the former city is desperately heroic, which is why it was completely destroyed during World War II.
就帕拉赫的故事而言，这位先知必须是一个波兰人，因为帕拉赫是一位典型的波兰英雄，浪漫而有自杀冲动。他与典型捷克英雄之间的区别，就像华沙和布拉格的区别一样明显——前者不可救药地追求英雄主义，这也是它在第二次世界大战中被彻底摧毁的原因。
Ms. Holland’s film has been received as a kind of national purification. Various Czech directors began to offer a kind of public self-criticism, apologizing for the fact that they have been unable to make such a film. During this year’s Czech film awards, broadcast live on television, the renowned director Jan Hrebejk burst onstage, saying, “Listen, all that you’ve done this year amounts to nothing. The only good thing is ‘Burning Bush.”’
霍兰的电影被认为起到了国家净化作用。很多捷克导演开始进行公开自我批评，为他们无法制作这样一部电影而道歉。在今年电视直播的捷克电影奖颁奖典礼上，著名导演扬·赫热贝克(Jan Hrebejk)在舞台上爆发情绪，说，“听着，你们今年做什么都是白搭。唯一的好作品就是《燃烧布拉格之春》。”
This was not Ms. Holland’s first trip to the Czech Republic. Indeed, her life itself could serve as the basis for a film script. Her father was a well-known Communist of a revisionist bent, who died during an interrogation by the security services by falling (or jumping) out of a window. Agnieszka, unable to enroll in a Polish university, left for Prague, where she joined the Prague Spring movement and spent a month in prison for “attempting to forcibly destroy the international system of socialist countries.”
这不是霍兰首次来到捷克共和国。实际上，她的人生故事本身就可以拍成一部电影。她父亲是一个有修正主义倾向的知名共产党人，他在接受安全部门审讯期间，从窗口坠落（或者跳出）死亡。阿格涅丝卡无法在波兰的大学入学，于是她来到布拉格，参与了布拉格之春运动，后来被监禁了一个月，罪名是“企图强行破坏社会主义国家的国际体系”。
She never met Palach, but she moved in the same circles. When he left behind a letter saying his was only the first of many self-immolations, she was convinced that one of her friends was next.
她从未见过帕拉赫，但她进入了同样的圈子。当他留下一封信、称他只是第一个自焚的人的时候，她确信她的一名朋友将是下一个。
Upon returning to Poland, Ms. Holland became a leading representative of the politically active Cinema of Moral Anxiety, alongside men like Andrzej Wajda and Krzysztof Kieslowski. She was the least sentimental of the bunch; she had the fewest illusions not only about the evils of the system, but about the weakness of society, human pettiness and the questionable grandeur of historical events.
一回到波兰，霍兰就与安杰伊·瓦伊达(Andrzej Wajda)、克日什托夫·基斯洛夫斯基(Krzysztof Kieslowski)等人一同成为政治活跃的“道德焦虑电影”(Cinema of Moral Anxiety)的主要代表。她是这群人中最不感情用事的一个。她在认识上的幻觉最少——无论是对体制的邪恶，还是对社会的软弱、人性的猥琐，以及历史事件的带有问号的重要性。
In the 1980s, Ms. Holland belonged to a small group of filmmakers who found success in both Europe (with her Oscar-nominated films “Angry Harvest” and “Europa Europa”) and Hollywood (with, for instance, “Washington Square,” a great adaptation of Henry James’s novel). She has even directed episodes of American TV shows like “The Wire” and “Treme.”
上世纪80年代，霍兰是少数在欧洲（她执导了奥斯卡提名影片《愤怒的收获》[Angry Harvest]和《欧洲，欧洲》[Europa Europa]）和好莱坞（比如改编自亨利·詹姆斯[Henry James]小说的优秀影片《华盛顿广场》[Washington Square]）都取得成功的导演之一。她甚至还执导了《火线》(The Wire)和《劫后余生》(Treme)等美剧的部分剧集。
But her heart has remained political. She is a kind of one-person opposition party, criticizing the political class for backwardness and hypocrisy.
但她在内心仍是具有政治见解的。她就像一个人的反对党，批判政治阶层的落后和虚伪。
I remember one instance, during a celebration of the anniversary of the fall of Communism, when Ms. Holland was listening to a boring discussion among famous former dissidents, all men, including figures like Adam Michnik and Janos Kis. She sat in a row of women who had formed the core of the Solidarity movement in the 1980s but now, in free Poland, were relegated to the roles of deputy chief, deputy director, deputy president.
我还记得一场庆祝共产党倒台的周年纪念活动上的情景。当时，霍兰正在听一些知名的前异见人士进行一场枯燥的讨论。这些人都是男性，其中包括亚当·米奇尼克(Adam Michnik)和雅诺什·基斯(Janos Kis)等人。她坐的那一排都是女性。上世纪80年代，她们曾构成“团结工会”运动的核心，但在自由的波兰，她们只能担任副职。
After two hours, Ms. Holland got up and began to wonder aloud whether, if the gentlemen ever took a basic course on feminism, they would continue to exchange such predictable banalities, which she could no longer bear to hear.
两个小时后，霍兰站了起来，开始大声问，如果这些男士们修过女权主义的入门课程，他们是否还会继续交流这种显而易见的陈词滥调。她可再也听不下去了。
Ms. Holland was also nominated for an Oscar last year, but as Poland’s candidate. Her “In Darkness” was one of the rare films about the Holocaust whose hero is not a representative of the upper class, like Steven Spielberg’s Oskar Schindler or Roman Polanski’s Wladyslaw Szpilman. Hers is a sewer worker from Lvov. In this way, she managed to demonstrate the period’s state of mind more convincingly than through a story about exceptional heroes. The film drew large audiences in Poland and played a significant role in the processing of the country’s World War II-era sins and failures toward its Jews.
去年霍兰以波兰候选人的身份获得了奥斯卡提名。她的电影《黑暗弥漫》(In Darkness)是关于二战中纳粹屠杀犹太人的历史。但不同于史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的奥斯卡获奖影片《辛德勒的名单》(Schindler)和罗曼·波兰斯基(Roman Po lanski)的《钢琴家》(Wlady slaw Szpilman)，这部电影的主人公并不是上层阶级的代表，而是一个来自利沃夫的下水道工人。与讲述杰出英雄的故事相比，她以这种方式更加令人信服地刻画了那个时期的心理状态。这部电影在波兰吸引了大批观众，对于反思该国在二战期间在对待犹太人方面的罪恶和失误起了重要作用。
Now Ms. Holland has aided the Czechs in confronting their own traumas. It would be nice if the Czechs sent us one of their many outstanding directors to tackle one of our traumas. The question is, which one?
现在，霍兰又帮助捷克人正视自己的创伤。捷克有那么多优秀的导演，如果他们能派一个来处理波兰的创伤，那会很好。问题是，哪个创伤呢？
How about history? Poles are proud of their history, perhaps too much so. We believe we have a great history because everyone beat us down and betrayed us, and thus we deserve respect. Whoever does not understand this logic is simply confirming that he is our enemy, a traitor. The 1944 Warsaw Uprising against the Germans, as a result of which the Polish capital was all but wiped off the face of the earth, as told by the Good Soldier Schweik, the pacifists’ favorite Czech hero, might not appeal to our ever-bellicose youth.
历史怎么样？波兰人为自己的历史感到骄傲，也许太自豪了。我们相信，我们的历史很辉煌，因为每个人都击败过我们，背叛过我们，因此我们值得尊重。不明白这个逻辑的人，明摆着就是我们的敌人，是叛徒。 1944年华沙爆发了反抗德国人的起义，结果波兰首都几乎被夷平。如果让和平主义者心爱的捷克英雄“好兵帅克”(Good Soldier Schweik)来讲这个故事，可能不会吸引越来越好战的波兰年轻人。
Or maybe the secularized Czechs could look under the cassocks of our crude Catholic hierarchy. What if they went about telling the story of Pope John Paul II the way they did with the muckraking “Citizen Havel”? Oh yes, that would be quite the revolution!
或者，世俗化的捷克可以看看我们粗鄙的天主教等级制度背后的隐情。如果他们用《公民哈维尔》(Citizen Havel)那种揭发丑闻的方式来讲述教皇约翰·保罗二世(John Paul II)的故事呢？对，那将具有革命性！
I appeal to the Czech Film Academy. Since there will be no Oscar for Holland this year, you’ll have to repay us some other way. We ask for the same type of revolution we’ve given you. It doesn’t have to be historical, just cultural. We’re waiting for reciprocation.
我向捷克电影学院呼吁。由于今年霍兰得不到奥斯卡奖，你们得以其他方式来回报我们。我们要求这个回报具有同等的革命性。它不一定要与历史有关，只要与文化有关就行。我们等着你们还这份情。