BOSTON — The government opened the sentencing phase of the Boston Marathon bombing trial on Tuesday by revealing a picture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in his holding cell three months after the bombing, in which he is seen showing his middle finger to a surveillance camera.
波士顿——本周二，政府开启了波士顿马拉松爆炸案审判的量刑阶段，同时出示了被告人焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)在爆炸发生三个月后的一张照片；当时他在牢房里，对着一个监控摄像头竖起中指。
Gasps went up in the courtroom and in the media overflow rooms as Nadine Pellegrini, a government prosecutor, showed the image to the jury that will decide whether Mr. Tsarnaev is sentenced to death or to life in prison without parole.
当政府检察官纳丁·佩莱格里尼(Nadine Pellegrini)向陪审团出示这张照片时，法庭和挤满媒体业者的房间里，发出了一阵倒吸凉气的声音。陪审团将裁定萨纳耶夫是被判处死刑，还是被终身监禁，不得假释。
By the time of the photo, Mr. Tsarnaev, then 19, knew he was being charged with the bombings, which killed three people and injured 260 others. He was no longer under the sway of his brother, who was dead. “He had one more message to send,” Ms. Pellegrini said, as she removed a poster board, unveiling an enlarged picture of a defiant Mr. Tsarnaev.
拍摄这张照片的时候，当时19岁的萨纳耶夫知道自己因为参与爆炸案而受到了指控，爆炸导致3人死亡260余人受伤。这时他已经不再受死去的哥哥的影响。“他还有另一个讯息要传达，”佩莱格里尼边说，边移开了一个海报板，露出了萨纳耶夫挑衅姿态的放大照片。
“This is Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, unconcerned, unrepentant and unchanged,” Ms. Pellegrini said. “Without remorse, he remains untouched by the grief and the loss he caused, and he remains the unrepentant killer.”
“这就是焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫，漠不关心、顽固不化、绝不悔改，”佩莱格里尼说。“他毫无悔意，对于自己造成的悲痛和损害，他并没有受到触动。他仍然是个顽固不化的杀手。”
Because of who he is, she said, the government is asking the jury to sentence him to death. The penalty phase that started Tuesday will be far more contentious, emotional and unpredictable than the first phrase, which was a foregone conclusion, once Mr. Tsarnaev’s lawyers admitted he was involved in the bombings.
因为他本性如此，她说，政府要求陪审团判处他死刑。与前半阶段相比，本周二开始的量刑阶段将远远更具争议性，更加情绪化，也更加不可预测。在前半阶段，萨纳耶夫的律师承认他参与爆炸案之后，结果就已确定。
The prosecution’s depiction of Mr. Tsarnaev as a man acting on his own, in control of his own destiny, was meant to fortify the jury against the picture that the defense will present, of an unmoored adolescent from a dysfunctional immigrant family and under the influence of his controlling older brother.
检方把萨纳耶夫描绘成是在自主决定，掌控着自己的命运，意在提前反驳辩方将向陪审团描绘的形象：萨纳耶夫是一个与社会脱节的少年，来自一个破碎的移民家庭，受到了控制欲极强的哥哥的影响。
Millions of people come from dysfunctional families, Ms. Pellegrini said, but they do not cross the lines and blow past the boundaries that Mr. Tsarnaev crossed.
佩莱格里尼说，数以百万计的人来自破碎家庭，但他们并没有像萨纳耶夫那样跨越雷池，超出底线。
“The lines he was willing to cross make him fundamentally different,” she told the jury. And his personal characteristics, she said, “are what set him apart, and it’s his character that makes the death penalty appropriate and just.”
“他愿意超出底线，这是他与其他人的本质区别，”她对陪审团说，他的个性特征“是他与大家不同的原因，由于他有这样的性格，所以判处他死刑是适当和公正的。”
His character has been something of a black box so far, with virtually no indication of his thoughts since his arrest. He has appeared at the trial every day, appearing disengaged, but revealing nothing. This made the picture of him making a vulgar gesture all the more shocking to the courtroom as it gave one of the few concrete glimpses into his mindset.
之前，大家一直不清楚他的性格。自他被捕之后，几乎没有迹象显示他有什么想法。他每天都出现在庭审中，显得心不在焉，但却没有透露任何迹象。正因如此，这张他做不雅手势的照片在法庭上才更加令人震撼，这是少数几个揭示他心态的瞬间之一。
The picture was a dramatic close to a half-hour opening statement that included observations by Shakespeare (“The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves”) and Emerson (“The only person you are destined to become is the person you decide to be”) to underscore that people are in charge of their own destinies.
这张照片给半小时的开庭陈述划上了一个戏剧性的句号。开庭陈词中引用了莎士比亚（“亲爱的勃鲁托斯，那错处并不在我们的命运，而在我们自己。”）和艾默生（“你是注定要成你决定成为的那个人”）的句子，强调人要对自己的命运负责。
“His destiny was determined by him,” Ms. Pellegrini said, and he became “America’s worst nightmare” as he “twisted the marathon into something cruel and ugly for his own purposes.”
“他的命运是由他自己决定的，”佩莱格里尼说，而他成为了“美国最大的噩梦”，因为他“为了自己的目的，让一场马拉松变得残酷而丑恶”。
The prosecution is expected to spend the rest of this week amplifying its case for why Mr. Tsarnaev should be put to death. 
在本周接下来的时间里，预计检方将进一步论证为什么萨纳耶夫应该被处以极刑。
The defense team opted not to deliver an opening statement now and is preparing to do so when it puts on its case next week.
辩方决定现在不做开庭陈述，准备下周为这个案子辩护时再做陈诉。
Prosecutors will argue for death, even as some of the survivors and the families of victims who died have asked that Mr. Tsarnaev’s life be spared. A few days ago, the parents of Martin Richard, the 8-year-old boy killed at the marathon, asked the government to take the death penalty off the table because it would mean endless appeals and delay their ability to move on.
即便一些幸存者和遇难者的家属已经要求，免萨纳耶夫一死，检察官还是将争取死刑判决。几天前，在爆炸案中遇难的8岁小男孩马丁·理查德(Martin Richard)的父母，要求政府放弃考虑死刑，因为这将意味着无休止的上诉，让他们不能尽早开启生活的新篇章。
Jessica Kensky and Patrick Downes, a newly married couple who both lost legs during the 2013 bombings, made a recent statement, saying: “We must overcome the impulse for vengeance.” And the sister of an M.I.T. police officer whom Mr. Tsarnaev killed has said she thought that the death penalty would bring neither peace nor justice.
在2013年的爆炸案中，新婚不久的杰西卡·肯斯基(Jessica Kensky)和帕特里克·唐斯(Patrick Downes)各自失去了一条腿。最近他们表示：“我们必须克服复仇的冲动。”被萨纳耶夫杀害的麻省理工学院(MIT)校警的妹妹说，她认为死刑不会带来和平与正义。
Calls by survivors or victims’ families for the death penalty, however, have been more muted. Among those who feel strongly is Liz Norden; two of her sons each lost a leg in the blasts. She has said that because he destroyed so many lives, Mr. Tsarnaev deserves “the ultimate justice.”
但是，那些呼吁判决死刑的幸存者或遇难者家属，他们的声音相对较小。莉兹·诺登(Liz Norden)是那些心情比较激奋的人之一，她的两个儿子在爆炸案中各失去了一条腿。她说，萨纳耶夫摧毁了太多人的生活，理应被处以“终极惩罚”。
These expressions both pro and con have presumably not reached the ears of the jurors, who have been ordered to avoid all media coverage of the case and were even told not to attend this year’s marathon on Monday.
这些赞成和反对的意见应该都没有传到陪审员耳中，法庭已经要求他们，不要查看该案件的所有媒体报道，就连本周一举行的今年的马拉松赛也不能前往。
The debate here is particularly intense because Massachusetts abolished the death penalty in 1984, but this is a federal case and so federal law applies.
在波士顿，争论尤其激烈，因为马萨诸塞州在1984年废除了死刑，但这是一个联邦案件，所以应遵循联邦法律。
On April 8, the jury found Mr. Tsarnaev guilty on all 30 charges against him in connection with the 2013 bombings, which killed three people and wounded 264 others. The same jurors are now settling in for the sentencing phase, which will unfold like a regular trial. Judge George A. O’Toole Jr. of Federal District Court, who is presiding, has said it could take about four weeks.
关于2013年炸死3人、炸伤264人的爆炸案，陪审团4月8日裁定，萨纳耶夫受到的所有30项指控全都罪名成立。量刑阶段还是由同样的陪审员参加，该阶段的过程将和普通审判保持一致。负责主审的联邦地区法院法官小乔治·A·奥图尔(George A. O’Toole Jr.)表示，量刑阶段可能会持续四周时间。
The defense will have broad leeway to argue the “mitigating” circumstances that it says should spare Mr. Tsarnaev from execution. One will be his age: He was 19 at the time. Another will be the powerful influence of his older brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, whom the defense has cast as a violent jihadist bent on revenge against Americans for the killings of Muslims in Iraq and Afghanistan. Tamerlan was killed a few days after the bombings after a shootout with the police and after Dzhokhar drove over him in a getaway car.
辩方将拥有大量回旋余地来讨论“从轻”情节，他们说这些情节应该免萨纳耶夫一死。一是他的年龄：当时他19岁。另一个是他的哥哥、26岁的塔梅尔兰·萨纳耶夫(Tamerlan Tsarnaev)对他施加了巨大的影响力；辩方称塔梅尔兰是一个暴力圣战分子，执意报复美国人在伊拉克和阿富汗对穆斯林的杀戮。爆炸案发生几天后，塔梅尔兰在与警方发生枪战，并遭到焦哈尔驱车碾压后身亡。