A federal grand jury here issued a 30-count indictment on Thursday against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving Boston Marathon bombing suspect, charging him with using a weapon of mass destruction that killed Chinese graduate student Lu Lingzi and two others, and injured more than 260.
周四，波士顿的一个联邦大陪审团签发了一份包含30项罪名的起诉书，指控波士顿马拉松爆炸案在世的嫌疑人焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)使用大规模杀伤性武器，致使来自中国的研究生吕令子等三人遇害，260余人受伤。
The grand jury also charged him in the killing of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer, from whom he and his brother, Tamerlan, tried to steal a firearm, the authorities said, before they led police officers on a wild night of terror and a shootout that shut down the city of Boston and its suburbs for a day.
大陪审团还指控他杀害麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的一名校警。当局称，他和哥哥塔梅尔兰(Tamerlan)当时试图从这名校警手中抢夺一件武器。随后，他们让警方进行了一夜混乱惊险的追捕，双方的枪战使波士顿及其郊区全天陷入停顿。
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, faces life in prison or the death penalty on 17 of the federal charges and is scheduled to be arraigned on July 10. His brother was killed by injuries sustained in the shootout with police and when Dzhokhar accidentally drove over him, the indictment said.
现年19岁的焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫因17项联邦指控而面临终身监禁或死刑，传讯时间定于7月10日。起诉书称，焦哈尔的哥哥在与警方的枪战中受伤，又意外遭其驾车碾过，从而身亡。
In addition to the federal indictment, Mr. Tsarnaev was indicted by a Middlesex County grand jury on more than a dozen criminal charges, including murder in the shooting death of Sean Collier, the M.I.T. police officer. The county indictment covers a carjacking, chase and shootout that occurred in the Boston suburbs beginning the night of April 18; the federal indictment, which runs 74 pages, covers events that led up to the bombings on April 15 as well as the bombings and the subsequent chase and shootout.
除联邦指控外，萨纳耶夫还受到米德尔塞克斯县大陪审团的十几项刑事指控，包括枪杀麻省理工的校警肖恩·科利尔(Sean Collier)的谋杀罪。县级起诉中包含始于4月18日晚，发生在波士顿郊外的劫车、追捕和枪战等事件；长达74页的联邦起诉书则包含引发4月15日爆炸案的前情、爆炸事件本身，以及随后的追捕和枪战等事件。
Carmen M. Ortiz, the United States attorney who outlined the charges for the news media, said she had met with relatives of the victims and with those who were wounded.
联邦检察官卡门·M·奥尔蒂斯(Carmen M. Ortiz)向新闻媒体概括了指控内容，并表示她与遇害者家属和伤者进行了会面。
“Their strength is extraordinary, and we will do everything that we can to pursue justice not only on their behalf but on behalf of all of us,” she said.
她说，“他们有着非凡的力量，我们将竭尽全力，不仅为他们，也为我们所有人伸张正义。”
The federal indictment gives the most detailed narrative so far of the brothers’ alleged actions. On the night of the chase, it said, they were armed with five bombs, a Ruger P95 semiautomatic handgun, ammunition, a machete and a hunting knife. It is not clear which items the brothers still had in their possession as the police closed in.
联邦起诉书对萨纳耶夫兄弟被控行为，给出了迄今为止最详尽的叙述。文中写道，追捕当晚，他们装备有五枚炸弹、一把Ruger P95半自动手枪、弹药、一把砍刀和一把猎刀。但并不清楚警察逼近时，两人手中还持有哪些物品。
The indictment also included the words that Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had scrawled on the inside of a dry-docked boat where he was hiding, giving hints about his motives. Among the phrases he wrote were: “The U.S. government is killing our innocent civilians”; “I can’t stand to see such evil go unpunished”; “We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us all”; and “Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop.”
起诉书中还包含焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫躲在一艘停在干船坞里的船上时，写在船内的潦草字句，可以将这些字句作为了解他的动机。他写的词句中包括：“美国政府正在杀害我们的无辜平民”、“我不能坐视这种恶行不受惩罚”、“我们穆斯林是一体的，伤害一人就是伤害全体”，以及“停止杀害我们的无辜民众，我们就会收手”。
Mr. Tsarnaev also wrote that he did not “like killing innocent people” because “it is forbidden in Islam.” But he suggested that because of what had been done to Muslims, such violence “is allowed.”
萨纳耶夫还写道，他并不“喜欢杀害无辜民众”，因为“伊斯兰教禁止这样做”。不过他也表示，由于之前对穆斯林所做的行为，这种暴力“得到了允许”。
Ms. Ortiz declined to elaborate on their motives, saying the bombings were “perhaps a protest against what they viewed as actions by the United States in foreign countries.”
奥尔蒂斯拒绝详述两人的动机，称爆炸案“可能是一种抗议，针对的是他们所认为的，美国在外国的举动”。
The federal indictment said that the brothers had built the two bombs that they detonated at the marathon using pressure cookers, explosive powder, shrapnel, adhesives and other items “designed to shred skin, shatter bone, and cause extreme pain and suffering, as well as death.”
联邦起诉书中称，萨纳耶夫兄弟制造了两枚炸弹并在马拉松赛事中引爆。炸弹采用了高压锅、炸药粉、弹片、黏合剂等物品，“旨在撕裂肌肤、粉碎骨骼，并造成极端的痛苦、折磨和死亡。”
And it said Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had contributed to his brother’s death. After the two tried to “shoot, bomb and kill” the officers who were trying to apprehend them, it said, Tamerlan Tsarnaev was tackled to the ground by three police officers.
文中还称，焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫部分造成了其兄的死亡。警方力图拘捕二人时，他们试图“射击、扔炸弹及杀害”警察。之后，塔梅尔兰·萨纳耶夫被三名警员按倒在地。
At that point, the indictment said, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, driving a Mercedes S.U.V. that they had carjacked, drove directly at three police officers who were trying to drag Tamerlan to safety. He barely missed one of the officers but ran over Tamerlan, “seriously injuring him and contributing to his death.”
起诉书称，焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫那时正驾驶一辆劫持的奔驰越野车，直接冲向试图将塔梅尔兰拖到安全地带的三名警员。他险些撞到一名警员，不过却从塔梅尔兰身上碾过，“致其严重受伤，并部分造成他的死亡。”
After Mr. Tsarnaev drove over his brother, he struck a Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority officer, seriously injuring him. Mr. Tsarnaev then abandoned the vehicle, smashed both of his cellphones and hid in the boat.
碾过哥哥之后，萨纳耶夫还撞上了马萨诸塞州海湾交通管理局(Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority)的一名警员，致其重伤。后来，他弃车而逃，砸碎了自己的两部手机并藏身于船中。
The indictment listed books and materials that Mr. Tsarnaev downloaded that might have influenced his beliefs and taught him how to assemble the bombs. The authorities said that he had downloaded a digital copy of a book that had a foreword written by Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born Qaeda leader whom the United States killed in a 2011 drone strike. The book “directs Muslims not to give their allegiance to governments that invade Muslim lands,” the authorities said.
起诉书列出了萨纳耶夫下载的一些书籍和材料，它们可能对他的信仰产生了影响，这些资料还教会了他如何组装炸弹。当局表示，他下载的一本电子书的前言由安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)撰写。此人是基地组织(Qaeda)的一名领导人，在美国出生，于2011年死于美国的无人机空袭。当局称，这本书“教导穆斯林，不要效忠于入侵穆斯林土地的政府”。
Mr. Tsarnaev also downloaded a publication that called for Muslims to use violence “to terrorize the perceived enemies of Islam, among other things.”
萨纳耶夫下载的另一本出版物呼吁，穆斯林要使用暴力“及其他手段，来恐吓他们所认为的伊斯兰之敌”。