BOSTON — It may be one of the biggest cities in the country, but Boston was a small town on Tuesday as it mourned the losses it suffered in carnage a year ago and as it honored the sense of community that emerged from the ashes.
波士顿——波士顿或许是全国最大的城市之一，周二却变成了一个小小的城镇，当时它正在对一年前杀戮事件的死难者表示哀悼，并对产生于灰烬之中的社群意识表示敬意。
“There are no strangers here,” Gov. Deval Patrick said to 2,500 people gathered at the Hynes Convention Center on Boylston Street. “We are all connected to each other, to events beyond our control, to a common destiny.”
“这里没有陌生人，”马萨诸塞州州长德瓦尔·派崔克(Deval Patrick)对聚集在博伊尔斯顿大街海因斯会议中心(Hynes Convention Center)的2500人说。“我们所有人彼此相连，与超出我们控制范围的事件相连，与共同的命运相连。”
He was addressing families and loved ones, first responders and medical professionals, runners and spectators, all brought together by their ties to last year’s Boston Marathon. One of the best-known sporting events in the world, it turned deadly last year when two homemade bombs, planted close to the finish line, killed three people: Krystle Campbell, 29, Lu Lingzi, 23, and Martin Richard, 8. The bombs wounded 260 others and cost 16 some of their limbs. The two men accused of the bombings are alleged to have killed a fourth person, Sean Collier, 27, a police officer at M.I.T., a few days later.
他的听众包括受害者亲友、率先采取应对行动的人、专业医疗工作者、跑步运动员和观众，所有人都因与去年波士顿马拉松的联系而走到了一起。波士顿马拉松比赛是世界最著名的体育赛事之一，去年却变成了致命性事件。两枚放在终点线附近的自制炸弹发生爆炸，共导致三人死亡：29岁的克里斯托·坎贝尔(Krystle Campbell)、23岁的吕令子，以及8岁的马丁·理查德(Martin Richard)。此次爆炸案还导致260受伤，16人肢体伤残。据称，几天之后，此次爆炸案的两名嫌犯还在麻省理工学院(MIT)杀死了一名警察，27岁的希恩·科利尔(Sean Collier)。
The tribute at the convention center was the central event of a gloomy, rain-soaked, tear-streaked anniversary that began with a wreath-laying ceremony near the finish line and ended with candlelight vigils.
这是一个气氛阴郁、雨水浸透、泪水纵横的纪念日，主要的纪念活动是在会议中心举行的悼念仪式。纪念活动以在终点线附近放置花圈开始，以烛光守夜结束。
But the evening observances were disrupted when the police took a man into custody after finding several unattended backpacks near the finish line. The bomb squad was on the rainy scene and detonated one of the backpacks, creating a contained explosion.
但是，警察在终点线附近找到了几个无人看管的背包，随后拘留了一名男子，夜间的仪式由此受到了干扰。防爆小组出现在雨水淋漓的现场，引爆了其中一个背包，造成了规模有限的爆炸。
The backpack was under a makeshift bridge across Boylston Street at the finish line; the bridge was set up as a platform for photographers for Monday’s marathon. The streets were cleared of pedestrians.
背包被放在终点线处横跨博伊尔斯顿大街的一座临时桥梁下方；这座桥是供摄影师在周一马拉松比赛当中使用的平台。街上没有任何行人。
Earlier, one of the most emotional moments of the day came at the very beginning, when Jane Richard, 8, and her brother Henry, 12, helped lay a wreath for Martin, their brother, in front of the Forum restaurant, where one of the bombs had gone off. Jane, with her prosthetic leg visible below her dark skirt, briefly touched the wreath, and they stood quietly for a few moments before turning to their parents for hugs. At the tribute, Governor Patrick took note of the few degrees of separation among those at last year’s race. He said that Martin had carried a Deval Patrick campaign sign when Martin was only 2. Mayor Martin J. Walsh, who also spoke at the tribute, had been the boy’s Little League coach.
当天最感人的时刻出现在纪念活动的开始。当时，8岁的简·理查德(Jane Richard)和她的哥哥、12岁的亨利(Henry)来到论坛餐厅(Forum)前，帮着给他们的兄弟马丁敬献了一个花圈。这里是其中一枚炸弹的爆炸地点。简·理查德的假肢露在了黑色的裙子下方，她轻轻地碰了碰花圈，兄妹俩静静地站了一会儿，然后才投向父母的怀抱。派崔克州长在悼念仪式上提到了去年比赛中一些人之间的亲密联系。 他说，只有两岁的时候，马丁就曾佩戴德瓦尔·派崔克的竞选标志。市长马丁·J·沃尔什(Martin J. Walsh)也在悼念仪式上发表了讲话，他曾是马丁的少年棒球联盟(Little League)教练。
“It felt like we knew everyone who was hurt, everyone who was suffering,” Mr. Walsh said, reflecting a quirk about Boston — that everyone seems to know everyone else and if they did not know one another before the marathon, they did now. They have learned their back stories and followed their progress.
“感觉就像我们认识所有的伤者，所有的受害者。”沃尔什说。他的话反映了波士顿的一个特异之处——这里的每个人似乎都彼此相识，如果说他们在马拉松赛之前互不相识，现在也已彼此相识。人人都了解他人背后的故事，追踪着他人的进展。
The sense of community was evident, too, in the crowds that gathered in the downpour for a flag-raising ceremony on Boylston Street at the site of the explosions. Many recognized Carlos Arredondo, the cowboy-hat-wearing bystander who became famous last year when he helped rescue Jeff Bauman, who lost both legs. But Kristen McKenzie, 34, a nurse at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, even recognized someone in the crowd far more anonymous: a man who had stood guard at a makeshift memorial that sprang up after the bombings.
倾盆大雨之中，升旗仪式在博伊尔斯顿大街的爆炸现场举行，这里的人群中也弥漫着显而易见的社群意识。许多人都认出了卡洛斯·阿雷东多(Carlos Arredondo)，这个头戴牛仔帽的比赛观众因去年出手援救失去双腿的杰夫·鲍曼(Jeff Bauman)而扬名。不过，34岁的布莱根和妇女医院(Brigham and Women's Hospital)护士克丽丝滕·麦肯齐(Kristen McKenzie)甚至认出了人群当中更为寂寂无名的一员，那是一名给爆炸发生后树起的临时纪念碑站岗的男子。
“He was guarding that, day in and day out, so it was nice to see him,” she said.
她说，“他天天都给纪念碑站岗，所以，看到他让人倍感亲切。”
Perhaps the most intense bond that has been forged is that among a completely random group of people who had little in common except their enthusiasm for cheering on runners and the grave injuries they endured.
也许，最牢固的纽带是在完全随机出现的一群人中形成的，除了都曾满怀激情地给赛跑选手加油，都曾身受重伤之外，这些人几乎没有共同之处。
The survivors have helped one another recover, moving from hospitals to rehabilitation together, some of them forming deep friendships. More than 100 of them even went on a cruise together in December.
这些幸存者在康复过程中彼此相助，一起从医院搬到康复中心，其中的一些人建立了深厚的友谊。去年12月，其中的100多人甚至一起乘坐游轮出游。
“To our fellow survivor community,” said Patrick Downes, speaking from the podium at the tribute, “what would we do without each other?” Mr. Downes and his new wife, Jessica Kensky, both lost their left legs in the blast.
在悼念仪式讲台上发言的帕特里克·唐斯(Patrick Downes)说，“对幸存者这个群体而言，如果没有彼此，我们会怎么样呢？”唐斯和他新婚的妻子杰西卡·肯斯基(Jessica Kensky)都在爆炸中失去了左腿。
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who spoke last at the tribute, leaned on the lectern and clasped his hands in front of him, saying it was an important day, not just for Boston but for the country because Boston had inspired everyone.
最后一个在悼念仪式上发言的是美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)，他倚着讲台，把双手紧扣在身前。他说，今天不仅是波士顿的大日子，也是全美国的大日子，因为波士顿激励了所有的人。
In a rousing finish, Mr. Biden summoned an image of next Monday, when runners will again line up to start the marathon, now in its 118th year.
拜登以鼓舞人心的话语作结，遥想了下周一的画面，选手们届时将再次列队出发，启动第118届波士顿马拉松赛。
“You will send a resounding message around the world, not just to the rest of the world but to the terrorists, that we will never yield, we will never cower, America will never ever, ever stand down,” he declared. “We are Boston! We are America! We respond, we endure, we overcome and we own the finish line!”
他高声宣布，“你们将把一个掷地有声的讯息传遍全球，不只是传给全球各国，也会传给那些恐怖分子，那就是我们绝不会屈服，我们绝不会胆怯，美国也永远永远不会退缩。我们是波士顿！我们是美国！我们能应对、能承担、能克服，终点线属于我们！”