BOSTON — In the silent well of Courtroom Nine, a clerk read out the verdicts: Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. The word echoed in the courtroom as the clerk pronounced it 30 times, once for each of 30 counts.
波士顿——在寂静无声的9号法庭围栏内，一名法官助理在宣读判决：有罪。有罪。有罪。这个词反复在法庭回响，对于30项罪名中的每一项，助理都要念一遍“有罪”。
By the end of the 25-minute roll call of charges, a federal jury here had left no doubt how thoroughly it sided with the government against Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in connection with the 2013 bombings at the Boston Marathon. Mr. Tsarnaev, 21, a failing college student and the youngest child in a dispersed immigrant family, stood without expression, his arms folded in front of him, flanked by his lawyers.
持续25分钟的指控宣读完毕后，这里的一个联邦陪审团已经很清楚地完全与公诉方站到了一边，认定参与2013年波士顿马拉松爆炸案的焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)有罪。21岁的萨纳耶夫是一名表现不佳的大学生，也是一个散居各地的移民家庭中最年幼的孩子。他面无表情地站着，双臂交叠在身前，他的律师们站在旁边。
The verdicts set the stage for a second, more contentious phase of the trial in which the same jury will decide whether to sentence Mr. Tsarnaev to life in prison or death.
陪审团作出裁决后，审判将进入第二阶段，也是更具争议性的阶段：由同一个陪审团决定判处萨纳耶夫终身监禁还是死刑。
“I hope today’s verdict provides a small amount of closure for the survivors, families, and all impacted by the violent and tragic events surrounding the 2013 Boston Marathon,” Mayor Martin J. Walsh said in a statement. “The incidents of those days have forever left a mark on our city.”
“对于幸存者、受害者家属，以及所有在2013年波士顿马拉松爆炸案的暴力和悲剧中受影响的人，我希望今天的判决能帮他们在一定程度上做个了结，”市长马丁·J·沃尔什(Martin J. Walsh)在声明中称。“那段日子给我们的城市留下了永远的印记。”
The bombings almost two years ago transformed one of the world’s most prestigious road races on a glorious spring afternoon into a scene of carnage with bodies strewn across Boylston Street, giving the nation a horrifying glimpse into the consequences of homegrown, self-taught terrorism. The bombs, planted in retaliation for American-led wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, killed three spectators, blew the limbs off 17 others and wounded 240 more, leaving many with life-altering injuries.
大约发生在两年前的爆炸案，把在春光明媚的下午举行的一场世界最著名公路赛跑变成了大屠杀，无数人倒在博伊尔斯顿大街上，令美国上下在惊恐中对本土滋生、自学而成的恐怖主义有了一些了解。这些炸弹是为了报复以美国为首的军队在伊拉克和阿富汗进行的战争，共导致3名观众死亡，另造成17人肢体残疾，240余人受伤，许多人的一生因这些伤痛而改变。
Mr. Tsarnaev and his lawyers remained standing as the verdict was read. He was wearing a dark jacket and gray shirt.
在宣读判决时，萨纳耶夫和他的律师始终站立着。他穿着一件黑色夹克和灰色衬衫。
To his immediate left, one of his lawyers, Judy Clarke, turned the pages of a copy of the verdict form on the table in front of them, and Mr. Tsarnaev looked down at the pages of the form while each page was read. He was found guilty of all 30 charges against him.
在左边紧挨着的是他的律师之一朱迪·克拉克(Judy Clarke)，翻阅着他们面前的桌子上的一份裁决表。萨纳耶夫低头看着这些表格一页页地被翻过去。他被判30项罪名全部成立。
None of his relatives had attended the trial, and none appeared in court Wednesday. The courtroom was packed with survivors and victims’ families, many of whom had testified against him.
他的亲戚都没有出席庭审，周三也没有在法院露面。法庭里挤满了事故中的幸存者和受害者家属，许多人发表了不利于他的证词。
”We’re obviously grateful for the outcome today,” said Karen Brassard, who was injured in the bombing. With “one more step behind us,” she said she was “anxious” to get on to the next phase of the trial, though the bombing was “not something that you’ll ever be over.”
“我们当然对今天的结果感到欣慰，”在爆炸中受伤的凯伦·布拉萨德(Karen Brassard)说。“又往前走了一步”，她说她希望“赶紧”进行下一阶段的庭审，不过这场爆炸“是你这辈子都没法忘记的”。
There was little doubt that the jury would find Mr. Tsarnaev guilty of most charges; his lawyers have admitted that he had been involved in the bombings, and they put on a minimal defense, calling four witnesses who testified for five hours. The government, by contrast, called 92 witnesses over 15 days.
陪审团将认定萨纳耶夫多数罪名成立，这一点没有悬念；他的律师们已经承认他参与了爆炸，他们进行了最低限度的辩护，传唤了四名证人，证词陈述持续了五个小时。相比之下，政府在15天的时间里传唤了92名证人。
Still, in the first phase of the trial, the defense laid the groundwork for the sentencing phase, casting their client as subordinate to his older brother, Tamerlan, and less culpable for the crimes. The defense team’s goal now is to explain mitigating factors in hopes that jurors will sentence Mr. Tsarnaev to life in prison.
不过，在庭审的第一阶段，辩护团队就为量刑阶段做好了准备，称他们的当事人是其兄长塔梅尔兰的从犯，责任较轻。辩护团队现在的目标是阐述从轻发落的理由，希望陪审团能够判处萨纳耶夫终身监禁。