BOSTON — Since the federal death penalty was reinstated, in 1988, attorneys general have authorized it for about 500 defendants. By the end of the month there may be yet another: the accused Boston Marathon bomber, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.
波士顿——自从美国于1988年恢复联邦死刑以来，司法部长已经核准了500名被告的死刑指控。本月底可能又会新增一例，被告是被控制造波士顿马拉松爆炸案的焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)。
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. must decide by Jan. 31 whether to pursue the death penalty, but even if he does so, it is far from certain that Mr. Tsarnaev would actually face execution. Of those 500 defendants, only three have been executed, the last one a decade ago, according to the Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel.
司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)必须在1月31日做出决定，是否寻求死刑判决，但即使他选择这么做，萨纳耶夫是否真的会被执行死刑也还是个很大的未知数。根据联邦死刑辩护项目办公室(Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel)的数据，在那500名被告中，只有3名被执行了死刑，最后一次发生在10年前。
Still, Mr. Holder’s job is not to weigh the probabilities of Mr. Tsarnaev’s execution. Instead, he must decide whether the aggravating factors that might justify death in this case, like the indiscriminate killing and maiming of innocent people, outweigh any mitigating factors, such as the possibility that Mr. Tsarnaev, who was 19 at the time, was under the sway of his older brother.
不过，霍尔德的任务不是斟酌萨纳耶夫被处决的可能性。他必须做出判断的是：在这个案件成为死刑依据的加重因素是否超过了减罪因素。前者比如不加区分地杀死和杀伤无辜者，后者比如当时19岁的萨纳耶夫是受到哥哥的影响。
While Mr. Holder has said he does not personally support the death penalty, he has authorized its use several times, and many legal experts expect he will do so again in this case.
尽管霍尔德曾表示，他本人不支持死刑，但他已经批准过数次死刑指控，很多法律专家预计本次也会得到批准。
A decision to pursue the death penalty begins with a recommendation to the attorney general from the relevant United States attorney — in this case, Carmen M. Ortiz, whose team is prosecuting Mr. Tsarnaev for the bombings on April 15 that killed three people near the marathon’s finish line and injured more than 260 others. A police officer at M.I.T. was also killed in a subsequent manhunt for Mr. Tsarnaev and his older brother, Tamerlan, 26, who was killed in a shootout with police. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was caught later hiding inside a boat.
要做出寻求死刑的决定，首先需要联邦检察官向司法部长提出这一建议。本案的联邦检察官是卡门·M·奥尔蒂斯(Carmen M. Ortiz)，其团队正在起诉萨纳耶夫参与去年4月15日发生在马拉松终点线的爆炸案。爆炸导致3人丧生，260余人受伤。随后在搜捕萨纳耶夫和他哥哥塔梅尔兰(Tamerlan)的行动中，又有一名麻省理工学院(MIT)校警遇难。26岁的塔梅尔兰则在与警方的枪战中丧生。后来警方抓获了躲在一艘船里的焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫。
In June, a federal grand jury returned a 30-count indictment against Mr. Tsarnaev, including 17 charges that could carry the death penalty. He has pleaded not guilty and remains in federal custody. No trial date has been set.
去年六月，一个联邦大陪审团对萨纳耶夫签发了一份包含30项罪名的起诉书，其中包括17项罪名可以判处死刑。他拒不认罪，一直被联邦当局拘留。审判日期尚未确定。
The death penalty has not been used in Massachusetts since 1947, and the state banned it in 1984. But because Mr. Tsarnaev is charged under federal law, the federal death penalty applies.
自1947年以来，马萨诸塞州就没有判处过任何人死刑，1984年该州明令禁止死刑。但由于萨纳耶夫是根据联邦法律起诉的，联邦死刑仍然适用。
As part of her decision-making process on whether to recommend the death penalty, Ms. Ortiz surveyed the families of those killed and the surviving victims. The responses were confidential, as was Ms. Ortiz’s recommendation to Mr. Holder, though few legal experts doubt that she asked him to authorize the death penalty and that he will.
奥尔蒂斯必须决定是否在本案中建议死刑，为此她征询了遇害者​家属和伤者的意见。这些意见是保密的，奥尔蒂斯给霍尔德的建议也是保密的，不过法律专家大都认为她应该给出了死刑建议，而霍尔德也批准了。
The factors that Mr. Holder is to consider, according to Justice Department protocols, include the strength of the evidence against the defendant, the role he played in the capital offense, any prior criminal record, whether the defendant has accepted responsibility for his conduct, and the views of victims’ families.
根据司法部(Justice Department)的规则，霍尔德将会考虑的因素包括：不利于被告的证据力度，被告在可判处死刑的罪行中扮演的角色，他以前的所有犯罪记录，被告是否接受自己行为的责任，以及遇难者家属的意见。
The families of those killed in the bombings have generally avoided public discussion of the matter. Patricia Campbell, the mother of Krystle Campbell, 29, who was killed near the finish line, told The Boston Globe in July that while she had long opposed the death penalty, she was reconsidering her position. “Under the circumstances,” she said, “an eye for an eye feels appropriate.”
爆炸案遇难者的家属基本上都回避公开讨论这件事。29岁的克里斯尔·坎贝尔(Krystle Campbell)是在终点线附近丧生的死者之一，其母亲帕特里夏·坎贝尔(Patricia Campbell)去年七月告诉《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)，虽然她长期以来都反对死刑，但她正在重新考虑这个立场。“在这种情况下，”她说，“以牙还牙感觉是合适的。”
Lillian Campbell, Krystle’s grandmother, said the parents did not want to discuss it further. “Her mother and father are in no shape to talk about it,” she said. “I don’t care as long as he gets what he deserves.”
克里斯尔的祖母莉莲·坎贝尔(Lillian Campbell)说死者父母不想更多地讨论这个问题。“她的父母没有心情谈论这些，”她说。“只要他得到罪有应得的下场，其他我不在乎。”
The family of Martin Richard, the 8-year-old boy who was killed and whose parents and sister were also wounded in the attack, declined to discuss their views. The family of the third person who was killed, Lu Lingzi, 23, is in China and could not be reached for comment.
8岁的男孩马丁·理查德(Martin Richard)是另一名遇难者，其父母和姐姐也在那起爆炸案中受伤，他们拒绝发表意见。还有一名遇难者是23岁的吕令子，她的家人在中国，无法联系到他们置评。
If the death penalty is authorized for Mr. Tsarnaev and his case goes to trial, the first hurdle would be to find a jury willing to impose it. Anyone opposed to it would be disqualified. If they convicted Mr. Tsarnaev, all 12 jurors would then have to agree unanimously in a separate phase that he be put to death.
如果死刑起诉被批准，萨纳耶夫的案件进入了审判阶段，那么第一关就是找到一个愿意判处被告死刑的陪审团。任何反对死刑的人都会被取消资格。如果陪审团裁定萨纳耶夫有罪，那么所有12名陪审员就必须在一个单独的环节中对处决他达成一致同意。
“The difficult thing about jury selection for the government is making sure that the people who say they could impose the death penalty will actually follow through,” said George W. Vien, a longtime federal prosecutor, now in private practice, who won the death penalty in the most recent federal capital case here, in 2003. (That defendant is facing a retrial).
“为政府挑选陪审团的难处在于：确保那些说自己可以判人死刑的人真的会那么做，”乔治·W·维恩(George W. Vien)说。维恩曾长期担任联邦检察官，现在是私人执业。2003年，他在这里的最近一次联邦死刑起诉中取得胜利，被告被判处了死刑。（该被告将面临重审）。
Another challenge for prosecutors in the Tsarnaev case is that the defense team includes Judy Clarke, who is renowned for her ability to humanize her clients — including Theodore J. Kaczynski, the Unabomber, and Zacarias Moussaoui, a Sept. 11 conspirator — and keep them off death row. Her presence on the Tsarnaev team signals the presumption by the defense that this will be a death penalty case.
在萨纳耶夫一案中，检察官面临的另一个挑战是，被告辩护团队中的朱迪·克拉克(Judy Clarke)擅长于展示当事人的人性一面。她的当事人有被称为“炸弹客”(Unabomber)的西​​奥多·J·卡钦斯基(Theodore J. Kaczynski)和9·11阴谋策划者扎卡里亚·穆萨维(Zacarias Moussaoui)，克拉克的辩护令他们免于死刑。萨纳耶夫辩护团队中出现她的身影，意味着辩方认为这会是一个死刑案件。
“Judy knows how to talk to juries,” said Richard C. Dieter, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, which opposes the death penalty. “The prosecution knows who they are up against.”
反死刑组织“死刑信息中心”(Death Penalty Information Center)的执行理事理查德·C·迪特(Richard C. Dieter)说：“朱迪知道如何打动陪审团，控方知道他们在跟谁较量。”
With disclosures of wrongful convictions, racial disparities, prolonged delays and excessive costs, the political climate for capital punishment has grown less hospitable, and federal juries have been more inclined in recent years to sentence convicts to life without parole than to death. Since 2000, according to the research counsel, juries have favored life over death by a ratio of two to one.
由于错判、种族差异、长时间延误，以及成本过高等问题的曝光，现在的政治气候已经变得不那么有利于死刑判决，最近几年来，联邦陪审团更倾向于判处罪犯终身监禁而非死刑。联邦死刑辩护项目办公室的资料显示，自2000年以来，陪审团裁定终生监禁和死刑的比例是二比一。
Still, 70 percent of Americans favor the death penalty for Mr. Tsarnaev, according to a nationwide Washington Post-ABC News poll in May.
尽管如此，《华盛顿邮报》和ABC新闻频道(Washington Post-ABC News)去年五月联合进行的民意调查显示，仍有70%的美国人赞成对萨纳耶夫判处死刑。
The story appears to be different in Massachusetts. In a statewide poll for The Boston Globe in September, only 33 percent of respondents favored the death penalty for Mr. Tsarnaev, while 57 percent said he should receive life without parole.
但马萨诸塞州的情况似乎有所不同。《波士顿环球报》去年九月进行的全州民调中，只有33%的受访者赞成对萨纳耶夫判以死刑，57%的人表示他应该被判处终身监禁。
Attitudes here are relevant insofar as the defense is weighing whether to try to move the trial out of Boston. Defense lawyers have said in court papers that they are waiting for Mr. Holder’s action on the death penalty before making that strategic decision.
辩方正在考虑是否要将审判地点改在波士顿之外的地方，因此波士顿人的态度很重要。辩方律师已经在法庭文件中表示，他们正在等待霍尔德关于死刑起诉的决定，然后他们就会做出是否更改审判地点的策略性决定。
Moving the trial could be advantageous to the defense because marathon-related developments and articles about the victims’ recovery are still regularly in the news here. And moving it could make it harder for scores of sympathetic victims who lost limbs and are in wheelchairs to appear in the courtroom and tell the jury before sentencing of their suffering.
改换审判地点可能对辩方有利，因为波士顿媒体仍然常常刊登跟马拉松事件相关的后续发展以及受害者康复的消息。而且，此举也有可能让很多肢体残缺、坐着轮椅的受害者难以出现在法庭上，难以在陪审团做出裁决前向他们讲述自己遭受的苦难。
On the other hand, although Boston was the scene of the crime, and some here want Mr. Tsarnaev to face death, the overall atmosphere may be less hostile than elsewhere. Even in the immediate aftermath of the bombings, the state legislature overwhelmingly rejected a brief attempt to revive the state death penalty. And the Boston Bar Association, long opposed to a state death penalty, recently released a report in which it denounced the federal death penalty, calling its pursuit “almost always an empty and an inordinately expensive gesture.”
另一方面，虽然波士顿是这起罪案的发生地，部分波士顿人确实希望萨纳耶夫被判处死刑，但整体而言，这里的敌意可能较其他地方更少。即便刚刚发生了爆炸案，有人一度试图在该州恢复死刑，州议会还是以压倒性多数否决了相关的提案。在最近发布的一份报告中，长期反对州死刑的波士顿律师协会(Boston Bar Association)对联邦死刑进行了谴责，称它追求的“几乎总是一种空洞乏力而又代价不菲的姿态”。
As Mr. Dieter of the Death Penalty Information Center put it: “The defense might find that Boston is as good an environment as they can get.”
正如死刑信息中心的迪特所说的那样：“辩方可能会发现，对他们最为有利的审判环境是在波士顿。”