BOSTON — Dzhokhar Tsarnaev stood in a federal courtroom here on Wednesday and spoke publicly for the first time since uttering the words “not guilty” at his arraignment almost two years ago in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.
波士顿——2013年波士顿马拉松爆炸案中的焦哈尔‧萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)周三站在了联邦法庭中，公开发言。这是自他在近两年前受到传讯以来的第一次，当时他只是说出了“无罪”二字。
In his brief comments, Mr. Tsarnaev apologized for the bombing and noted that it was Ramadan, which he said was a time to ask for forgiveness.
萨纳耶夫在短暂的发言中为爆炸案道歉，并提到现在是斋月，是寻求宽恕的时候。
“I’m sorry for the lives that I’ve taken, the suffering that I’ve caused and the damage that I’ve done, irreparable damage,” he said, wearing a dark suit, his hair longer and messier than it was during his trial.
他说：“我对不起那些因我丧命的人，也为我造成的痛苦与无法修补的伤害感到抱歉。”他身穿深色西装，头发要比审讯期间更长、更乱。
He spoke for about four minutes, in a soft voice that was difficult to hear in the courtroom. “I would like to begin in the name of Allah,” he said. “This is the blessed month of Ramadan.”
他做了四分钟的发言，声音纤细，以至于在法庭内难以听清。他说，“这个月是受祝佑的斋戒月，我想以真主之名开始这次发言。”
He also included an admission: “I am guilty” of the bombing.
他在发言中也承认，在爆炸案中“自己有罪”。
It was an unexpected display from Mr. Tsarnaev, who has sat impassively as survivors of the bombing, which killed three and wounded more than 260, described the horrors that he and his brother, Tamerlan, caused on Boylston Street that day.
萨纳耶夫能有这样的表现有些出人意料。他此前一直面无表情地坐着，聆听爆炸的幸存者描述他与哥哥塔梅尔兰(Tamerlan)当天带来的恐怖景象。爆炸案发生在博伊尔斯顿街，造成3人死亡、超过260人受伤。
Later in the hearing Wednesday, Judge George O’Toole Jr. of Federal District Court formally sentenced Mr. Tsarnaev to death with words from Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar.”
在周三的庭审接近尾声时，联邦地区法院法官小乔治‧A‧奥图尔(George O’Toole Jr.)正式宣判萨纳耶夫死刑，并引用了莎士比亚《凯撒大帝》(Julius Caesar)一剧的台词。
“‘The evil that men do lives after them. The good is oft interred with their bones.’ So it will be for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,” the judge said.
“‘人们做了恶事，死后免不了遭人唾骂，可是他们所做的善事，往往随着他们的尸骨一齐入土，’这即是焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫的下场。”法官说。
At times during his comments, Mr. Tsarnaev seemed briefly overcome with emotion. At one point, he paused and covered his mouth. He spoke haltingly, and admitted his guilt.
在发言期间，萨纳耶夫一度压抑不了情感而停顿下来，并用手遮住嘴巴。他说话吞吞吐吐，承认了所犯罪行。
“I was listening,” he said, referring to the trial, even though his body language at times suggested otherwise, as he fidgeted and stared, apparently into space. He said he had learned about his victims.
“我有在听，”萨纳耶夫指的是审判过程，虽然他当时的一些肢体语言会让人产生相反看法。那时候，他时而坐立不安，时而发呆。他说他从中了解了受害者。
“I’ve learned their names, their faces, their age, and throughout this trial, more of the victims were given names,” Mr. Tsarnaev said.
“我知道了他们的名字、容貌和年龄。在审判期间，我了解了更多受害者的名字，”萨纳耶夫说。
Earlier, Mr. Tsarnaev sat as victims and their loved ones spoke of his “cowardly” and “disgusting” acts.
在稍早的时间，萨纳耶夫坐着聆听受害者与家人谈论其“懦夫一样”、“令人作呕”的所作所为。
“I hope you own all this grief and anguish for the rest of your life,” a survivor, Jeanne-Marie Parker, said.
“我希望你终其一生，都要背负这些悲伤与痛苦，”一位幸存者珍-玛莉‧帕克(Jeanne-Marie Parker)说。
Bill Richard, whose 8-year-old son, Martin, was killed, said that Mr. Tsarnaev could have backed out of the plot. Instead, Mr. Richard said: “He chose hate. He chose destruction. He chose death. This is all on him.”
比尔‧理察德(Bill Richard)八岁的爱子马丁(Martin)死于爆炸之中，他表示，萨纳耶夫本可以从阴谋中抽身。理查德说：“他却选择了仇恨、毁灭与死亡。他要为此负责。”
But, he added: “We chose love. We choose kindness. We choose peace.”
但他接着说：“我们选择爱、仁慈与和平。”
Johanna Hantel, a runner in the 2013 Marathon who was near the finish line when the explosions occurred, remained defiant. “If I have to crawl, I am going to continue running Boston each year,” Ms. Hantel said. “Because I will not let this sickening act take that away from me.”
2013年马拉松的参与者乔安娜‧韩特尔(Johanna Hantel)在爆炸发生时，正位于离终点线不远的地方。她保持了一种不屈服的态度，表示“就算是爬，也要每年来波士顿参加长跑，”她说。“因为我不会让这种令人作呕的行径改变我。”
Mr. Tsarnaev’s words drew a mixed reaction from those injured in the bombing.
萨纳耶夫的发言在爆炸案伤者中引发了褒贬不一的评价。
Lynn Julian, a Boston resident who was near the site of the first explosion and sustained traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder and other ailments, called his statement “insincere.”
琳‧朱利安(Lynn Julian)是波士顿居民，当天她就在第一次爆炸地点附近，其脑部受到创伤，得了创伤后应激障碍综合症，并遭受了其他病痛的折磨。她表示萨纳耶夫的发言“没有诚意”。
“I regret having ever wanted to hear him speak, because what he said showed no remorse, no regret, no empathy for what he’s done to our lives,” Ms. Julian said after the hearing.
朱利安在听证会后表示：“我感到后悔，自己竟然会想要听他说话。他的发言中毫无懊悔与遗憾，完全没有体现出，他感受到了他对我们造成的伤害。”
But Henry Borgard, 24, who said in a victim impact statement that the post-traumatic stress he had after the bombings had caused him to drop out of college, said he was heartened by Mr. Tsarnaev’s statement.
但24岁亨利‧伯格德(Henry Borgard)虽然在受害者影响报告中表示，自己因爆炸案导致的创伤后应激障碍而从大学退学，还是说他对萨纳耶夫的发言感到欣慰。