On a foggy April morning in 2010, the Polish president’s plane crashed over Smolensk in eastern Russia, killing him and 95 other members of Poland’s political and military elite, traumatizing the nation and opening a bitter political divide over what caused the disaster. Now the fissures have spread to the cultural realm, as filmmakers, writers and artists fiercely debate how — or even whether — to portray this still-visceral history.
2010年4月一个大雾弥漫的早上，波兰总统的专机在俄罗斯东部的斯摩棱斯克坠毁，他和机上其余95名波兰政治及军事精英全部罹难，波兰举国悲痛，灾难的成因引发了激烈的政治分歧。现在，这些分歧已经蔓延到文化领域，制片人、作家和艺术家们在激烈地争论着，该如何，甚至于应否刻画这段依旧让他们刻骨铭心的历史。
Some leading Polish actors have refused to participate in “Smolensk,” a feature film to be released next year, and Antoni Krauze, its patrician 73-year-old director, fears that his views challenging the official version of events, and suggesting a cover-up, could cost the movie millions of dollars in state financing.
一些杰出的波兰演员已经拒绝参演定于明年放映的故事片《斯摩棱斯克》(Smolensk)，该片的导演、73岁的安东尼·克劳泽(Antoni Krauze)在波兰导演界享有崇高的地位，但他担忧，由于他的观点不仅与官方观点相抵触，而且还提出官方版本在掩饰真相，这可能让该片丧失数百万美元的政府资金。
The makers of a decidedly sober National Geographic documentary, “Death of the President,” have been accused of being pro-Russian propagandists, while a satirical underground comic book has drawn the wrath of cultural officials for its allusion to the anti-Russian mania of those who blame the Kremlin for the crash. Its antihero, Likwidator, goes on a killing spree whose targets include Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president.
国家地理频道(National Geographic)的一部绝对严肃的纪录片《总统之死》(Death of the President)的制作者被控是亲俄宣传员，同时，一部在地下流传的讽刺性漫画书已经因为映射把空难归咎于俄罗斯政府的人士引发的反俄狂潮，而让波兰文化官员大发雷霆。漫画中的反英雄主角利克维达托(Likwidator)展开了一场大屠杀，他的目标中包括俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。
And Jacek Adamas, a leading street artist here, said he had been unable to find a gallery or museum willing to display his installation of black steel sculptures of human figures with targets on their chests, suggesting that the crash was an assassination. “Being an artist involves honesty, and in the current discourse in Polish arts, I’m not allowed to be honest,” he said.
本地主要的街头艺术家亚采克·阿达马斯(Jacek Adamas)说，他一直无法找到一个画廊或博物馆，愿意展出他的黑钢雕塑装置作品，那是一些胸前带有靶子的人物，暗示坠机事件是一次暗杀。他说：“一名艺术家必备的品质包括诚实，在波兰艺术界现在的讨论中，我被禁止说实话。”
At the root of this culture war is intense disagreement about exactly what caused the disaster that day, when Lech Kaczynski, the Polish president, and his delegation were traveling to an official commemoration of the Katyn Massacre of 1940, when the Soviet secret police executed 22,000 Polish officers. For decades the Soviet government denied responsibility for the killings, which to Poles had become a symbol of Russian domination.
这场文化之战的根源在于，各方对那场灾难的成因存在严重分歧，当时，波兰总统莱赫·卡钦斯基(Lech Kaczynski)和他的代表团正去参加为纪念1940年的卡廷大屠杀(Katyn Massacre)举行的官方活动，苏联秘密警察在大屠杀中处决了2.2万名波兰官员。数十年以来，苏联政府拒绝为屠杀负责，而对波兰人来说，它已成为俄罗斯压迫波兰的一个象征。
In the crash investigation, Russian and Polish investigators concluded in separate official inquiries that poor visibility and human error were to blame. But skeptics have variously insisted that it was an assassination, a declaration of war against Poland by Russia or perhaps an elaborate coup attempt.
在空难调查中，俄罗斯和波兰调查员经过各自的官方调查断定，糟糕的能见度和人为错误是导致空难的罪魁祸首。可是，怀疑者从各个角度坚持认为，这是一次暗杀，是俄罗斯在对波兰宣战，或者是一起精心策划的政变。
The range of conspiracy theories is dizzying. So-called truthers accuse the Kremlin of pumping artificial fog over the runway, planting explosives on the plane and doctoring and then sewing victims’ bodies back together in fake autopsies. Some even contend that the Kremlin murdered Kaczynski because he had traveled to Georgia in 2008 to support that country in its war with Russia.
阴谋论涉及的范围令人眼花缭乱。在所谓的真相中，俄罗斯被指在跑道上方制造了人工雾，在飞机上藏了炸弹，在虚假的尸检中对遇难者的尸体做手脚，然后把尸体进行缝合。一些人甚至认为，俄罗斯之所以谋杀卡钦斯基，是因为他曾在2008年前往格鲁吉亚，在该国和俄罗斯的战争中支持前者。
Mr. Krauze has rarely shied away from politics or controversy in his film career. His previous film, “Black Thursday,” which depicted the violent 1970 crackdown on striking shipyard workers by a Polish Communist government, was popular, but it also roiled emotions in a country coming to terms with its oppressed past.
在他的电影生涯中，克劳泽很少躲避政治或争议话题。他的上一部电影《黑色星期四》(Black Thursday)，描述了波兰的共产党政府1970年暴力镇压造船厂工人罢工的事件，这部影片很受欢迎，不过，在一个仍在尝试接受过往压迫史的国家，这部影片让民众感到心绪难宁。
The plot of “Smolensk” will center on an investigative journalist who slowly reveals a vast cover-up. Mr. Krauze said he has set out to demystify what he called a lie-riddled official narrative, and invoked “Zero Dark Thirty,” Kathryn Bigelow’s Oscar-nominated film about the American search for Osama bin Laden, as a role model. But just as “Zero Dark Thirty” was pilloried by some for taking liberties with real-life events and for implying that torture is an acceptable antiterrorist tool, so critics here warn that “Smolensk” threatens to become a political statement masquerading as fact.
《斯摩棱斯克》将以一名调查记者为中心展开情节，这名记者慢慢揭开了一个巨大的掩盖行动。克劳泽说，他打算揭开官方版坠机事件叙述的真相，他表示官方说法里充斥着谎言。他打算以《刺杀本拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)为榜样拍摄这部电影，该片是一部获得奥斯卡奖(Oscar)提名的影片，导演是凯瑟琳·毕格罗(Kathryn Bigelow)，影片讲述了美国人搜索奥萨马·本拉登(Osama bin Laden)的故事。不过，就像《刺杀本拉登》因对真实事件的随意刻画，以及暗示刑讯逼供是一个可以接受的反恐工具，而遭致抨击一样，波兰的批评者警告称，《斯摩棱斯克》可能变成伪装成事实的政治宣言。
Borys Lankosz, a filmmaker whose 2009 film, “Reverse,” depicted Polish life in the 1950s, said that conservative artists were adroitly tapping into deep-seated feelings of victimhood formed during centuries of occupation and subjugation. And he argues that supporters of the previous president are intent on mythologizing him.
导演博雷斯·兰科什(Borys Lankosz)说，保守派艺术家巧妙地利用了在长达数世纪的被占领和被征服过程中形成的受害者情结，他认为，前总统的支持者意图神话他的形象。兰科什2009年的影片《颠倒黑白》(Reverse)描述了20世纪50年代的波兰生活。
“It’s a cultural sickness,” he said. “We are always taught that we are the messiah nation. This cult of martyrdom, reflected in films like ‘Smolensk,’ is dangerous because it is based on a lie.”
他说：“这是一种文化病。我们总被告知，我们是弥赛亚国家。《斯摩棱斯克》等影片中反映出的对牺牲的狂热崇拜是危险的，因为它的依据是谎言。”
But Mr. Krauze says he is undeterred, even if making the film costs him lifelong friends and requires him to make do with a modest $3.5 million budget. “I feel I need to make this film, even if it is me against everyone else,” he said. “I intend to show the truth.”
然而，克劳泽说，即使拍摄这部影片意味着失去终生挚友，即使他只能有区区350万美元的预算，他也要继续下去。他说，“我觉得，就算要我为这部片子和所有人为敌，我也要拍。我一定要揭露真相。”
Mr. Krauze said he drew inspiration from evidence challenging the official explanation of the crash, including the film “Anatomy of a Fall.” That documentary’s emotive crash images and breathless narration attracted a large audience of more than three million viewers when it was shown by the state television channel TVP on April 8, two days before the third anniversary of the crash.
克劳泽说，与官方对坠机的解释相左的证据为他带来了灵感，这其中包括电影《坠机解密》(Anatomy of a Fall)。在距离坠机事件三周年纪念日还有两天的4月8日，波兰的国家电视频道TVP播放了这部纪录片，该片情绪化的坠机画面和语调急促的陈述吸引了300多万名观众。
The documentary’s creator, the investigative journalist Anita Gargas, interviewed dozens of witnesses, including local Russians who said they saw pieces of metal falling to the ground in the last seconds before the Russian Tupolev Tu-154M plane crashed, suggesting a possible explosion onboard.
这部纪录片的创作者、调查记者阿尼塔·加尔加斯(Anita Gargas)采访了十几名证人、其中包括俄罗斯本地人，他们说，在俄罗斯图波列夫公司(Tupolev)制造的图-154M客机坠毁前的最后几秒钟里，他们看到金属碎片落到了地面，这个迹象表明，机上可能发生了爆炸。
Before the broadcast, the left-leaning newspaper Gazeta Wyborcza called the film a dangerous misrepresentation that threatened to divide the country into “good and bad patriots.” The station countered that it was committed to showing all sides of the investigation.
在播放《坠机解密》之前，政治定位偏左的《选举报》(Gazeta Wyborcza)称这部影片是对事实的危险曲解，它可能把全体国民分裂成“好的和坏的爱国者”。电视台反击称，它以披露调查的所有方面为己任。
“Anatomy of a Fall” was preceded the same evening by National Geographic’s “Death of the President,” which hews closely to the official reports by the Polish and Russian authorities, citing the actions by the Polish pilots, including their decision to attempt a perilous landing in dense fog.
在同晚的早些时候，国家地理频道播放了《总统之死》，该片严格遵循了波兰和俄罗斯当局的官方报道，将事故归咎于波兰驾驶员的行动，包括他们意图在浓雾中进行危险降落的决定。
Members of the opposition party Law and Justice called the National Geographic documentary “scandalous,” and Ms. Gargas suggested that it had been bankrolled by Moscow.
波兰反对党法律与公正党(Law and Justice)的党员称，国家地理频道的纪录片是“可耻的”，加尔加斯认为，该片接受了俄罗斯的资助。
Ed Sayer, commissioning editor at the National Geographic Channel’s international arm, said that “Death of the President” was financed solely by National Geographic and that it stuck to the facts.
国家地理频道国际部策划编辑埃德·塞耶(Ed Sayer)说，“《总统之死》由国家地理频道单独提供资金，该片严格尊重事实。”
Such is the hysteria surrounding “Smolensk” that Juliusz Machulski, a leading Polish comedy director, said the only film that could do justice to the crash would be a parody.
围绕《斯摩棱斯克》的过激反应如此强烈，以至于波兰主要的喜剧导演尤利乌斯·马丘利斯基(Juliusz Machulski)说，唯一能公正反映坠机事件的影片，将是一部恶搞片。
“If anything, one could make a movie à la ‘Borat’ or Monty Python about a bumptious president of a moderately significant country in Central Europe who insists on landing in fog on a potato field,” he said.
他说，“如果说有什么片子能公正反映坠机事件的话，那就是一部类似《波拉特》(Borat)或巨蟒剧团(Monty Python)作品的影片，剧情是一位来自中欧某个重要程度一般般国家的我行我素的总统，坚持要在雾中把飞机降落在一片土豆地里。”