In his first public appearance since he was captured hiding in a boat in a Boston suburb almost three months ago, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings, pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to 30 federal charges contained in a sweeping terrorism indictment.
近三个月前，波士顿马拉松爆炸案仍然在世的嫌疑人焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)在波士顿郊外的一艘船中藏身时被捕。本周三，他被捕后首次公开露面，面对起诉书中各种有关恐怖主义的30项联邦控罪，他提出无罪抗辩。
With his left forearm in a cast or heavy bandage and with about three dozen victims and their family members looking on, Mr. Tsarnaev stood before a United States magistrate judge, Marianne B. Bowler, and said “not guilty” seven times as he was asked to enter a plea to different criminal counts covering his alleged role in killing Chinese graduate student Lu Lingzi and two others and wounding more than 260 near the finish line of the race on April 15.
萨纳耶夫左前臂打着石膏或厚厚的绷带，在30多名受害者及家属的注视下，站在联邦治安法官玛丽安·B·鲍勒(Marianne B. Bowler)面前。当被要求对其被控在爆炸案中犯下的多项刑事罪名提出抗辩时，他七次回答“无罪”。4月15日发生在波士顿马拉松赛终点线附近的爆炸导致来自中国的研究生吕令子等三人遇害，260余人受伤。
Most of the charges could mean the death penalty or life imprisonment if he is convicted. Mr. Tsarnaev has also been charged in the shooting death of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer three nights after the bombings.
其中多数的指控意味着，一旦被判有罪，他将面临死刑或终生监禁。而且，他还被控在爆炸三天后枪杀麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的一名校警。
Mr. Tsarnaev, 19, wore an orange jumpsuit over a dark T-shirt and fidgeted as he stood to make his pleas, speaking with an accent, during a hearing that lasted only about eight minutes. When he entered the courtroom, two women believed to be his sisters gasped and began to cry. One side of his face appeared injured or almost frozen. He smiled at the two women and made a kissing motion toward them when he left.
现年19岁的萨纳耶夫身穿橘色连衫裤，内罩一件深色T恤衫，站着提出抗辩时显得烦躁不安，讲话带有口音。聆讯仅持续了大约八分钟。他进入法庭时，拒信是他姐姐的两名女性倒抽一口气并开始哭泣。他的半边脸似乎受了伤，几乎不能活动。退庭时，他朝这两名女性微笑并做出亲吻的动作。
William Weinreb, an assistant United States attorney, told Judge Bowler that he expected the trial to last three to four months and for 80 to 100 witnesses to be called. The judge set Sept. 23 as the next court date. Mr. Tsarnaev, an ethnic Chechen, is a naturalized American citizen.
助理联邦检察官威廉·魏因雷布(William Weinreb)向鲍勒法官提出，庭审预计将持续三到四个月，传召80到100名证人。法官将下次开庭的时间定在9月23日。车臣人萨纳耶夫是一名归化的美国公民。
The courtroom was hot and tightly packed, and some began to cry as the hearing progressed. Outside the courthouse after the hearing, raw emotion and anger poured out from some of the victims and family members.
法庭内很热，而且十分拥挤，随着聆讯的进行，有人开始哭泣。聆讯结束后，一些受害者及家属在法院外宣泄了他们的情感和愤怒。
Liz Norden, the mother of 33-year-old J. P. Norden and 31-year-old Paul Norden, who each lost a leg in the attacks, said that seeing Mr. Tsarnaev at the hearing was disturbing.
33岁的J·P·诺登(J. P. Norden)和31岁的保罗·诺登(Paul Norden)在袭击中各失去了一条腿，两人的母亲利兹·诺登(Liz Norden)表示，在聆讯中看到萨纳耶夫令她不安。
“I was actually just sick to my stomach,” Ms. Norden said. “I’m angry.”
“我真的想吐。我很生气，”诺登说。
Mildred Valverde, 44, of Somerville, Mass., who suffered a concussion and still walks with crutches, described the court hearing as “kind of eerie, kind of upsetting.”
现年44岁的米尔德丽德·瓦尔韦德(Mildred Valverde)来自马萨诸塞州的萨默维尔，爆炸导致她脑震荡，并且至今仍需拄拐杖走路。她称此次聆讯“相当可怕、相当令人不快”。
As he stood before Judge Bowler, Mr. Tsarnaev seemed drowsy or tired, and he wiped his mouth and his nose several times, rubbing the back of his neck and grabbing at his jumpsuit, his curly hair flopping over his forehead. Aside from entering his pleas and saying a few brief words to his two lawyers, Judy Clarke and Miriam Conrad, he said nothing during the hearing. Federal marshals bound his hands as soon as the hearing was over and led him out.
站在鲍勒法官面前时，萨纳耶夫显得有些迷糊或疲惫，他数次拂拭嘴和鼻子，还曾挠向颈后和拉扯连裤衫，他的卷发耷拉在前额上。聆讯期间，除了提出抗辩，以及与他的两名律师朱迪·克拉克(Judy Clarke)和米丽娅姆·康拉德(Miriam Conrad)说了短短几句话，他再未开口。聆讯一结束，联邦法警立即把他的双手铐上，带他离开。
This was Mr. Tsarnaev’s first appearance in federal court. He was charged and read his rights while he lay in a Boston hospital bed one week after the bombings — uttering “no” once and mostly nodding or shaking his head in response to questions — and then indicted on June 28.
这是萨纳耶夫首次在联邦法院出庭。爆炸发生一周后，当局在波士顿一家医院的病床前向他提起指控并宣读权利，当时他发出了一声“不”，多数时候用摇头或点头来回答问题。正式的起诉书于6月28日签发。
Mr. Tsarnaev has recently been confined to a medical facility at Fort Devens, a United States military base 40 miles west of Boston, where he has been treated for gunshot wounds sustained during the shootout and pursuit that led to his capture in Watertown.
萨纳耶夫近期被关押在波士顿以西40英里处的美军基地德文斯堡(Fort Devens)的一个医疗设施里，在那里接受枪伤治疗。他是在枪战和追捕过程中受的伤，最后在沃特敦被捕。
Before the hearing, about half a dozen current and former members of the wrestling team at Mr. Tsarnaev’s high school lined up outside the courtroom hoping for a glimpse of a fellow athlete who had once seemed to have a bright future but had now become a mystery.
聆讯之前，萨纳耶夫所上中学的摔跤队以前和现在的六七名队员站在法庭外，希望能看一眼同为运动员的他。萨纳耶夫一度看似前途光明，如今却成为了一个迷一样的人物。
Shun Tsou, 20, who spent three years on the team with Mr. Tsarnaev, said he was not sure yet whether he believed his former team captain was guilty, and he wanted to see what happened in court on Wednesday.
20岁的舜·邹（Shun Tsou，音译）曾在摔跤队和萨纳耶夫一起相处过三年，他表示不确定自己是否相信曾经的队长有罪，希望能看到周三法庭内的情况。
“I really want to see what his reaction is today,” he said, “if he doesn’t care, if he does care — I want to see.”
他说，“我真的想看到他今天的反应。他在意还是不在意？我想看到。”