By turns raffish and intimate, boisterous and quaint, Greenwich Village below Washington Square Park and West Fourth Street has such a distinct local feel that it might best be described with one self-referential word: “Villagey.”
时而奔放，时而清幽，时而喧嚣，时而古雅，毗邻华盛顿广场公园(Washington Square Park)和西四街(West Fourth Street)的格林尼治村(Greenwich Village)，地方特色浓厚，或许用一个自我指代的词来形容它再合适不过了，那就是“乡村风情”(Villagey)。
The Beats are gone, and so are many of the coffeehouses and beloved food shops of this once largely Italian immigrant quarter, like Le Figaro Cafe and the recently shuttered Joe’s Dairy. But somehow the area maintains a singular identity.
“垮掉的一代”（格林尼治村是“垮掉的一代”的诞生地——译注）已经一去不复返，在这片曾经以意大利移民为主要人口的区域，许多咖啡馆和人们钟意的美食店也已经消失，比如费加罗咖啡馆(Le Figaro Cafe)及最近关闭的乳品店Joe's Diary。不过，格林尼治村依然以某种方式维持着卓尔不凡的个性。
“The ghosts of Bohemia are still here,” said Hugh Gran, an artist who lives and works in the $1,800-a-month rent-stabilized loft on LaGuardia Place where he grew up in the 1970s. “Though of course it’s become commercialized, the bohemian aspect doesn’t just disappear.”
“这里依然保留着波西米亚的灵魂，”艺术家休·格兰(Hugh Gran) 说。格兰目前在拉瓜迪亚广场(LaGuardia Place)的一座阁楼里生活和工作，每月要交1800美元（约合人民币10966元）的房租，租金较为稳定。20世纪70年代，他就是在这里长大的。“虽说这里也的确商业化了，但是它的波西米亚特色并没有就此消失。”
Less rough-edged than the East Village, and decidedly less chichi than the meatpacking district and most of SoHo, the Village south of Washington Square retains a personal, down-to-earth element that can still be felt at venerable haunts like the Olive Tree Cafe, with its chalkboard tables and Charlie Chaplin films, and at old-school music spots like the Bitter End and the Back Fence.
位于华盛顿广场以南的格林尼治村，没有东村(East Village)那么粗犷，也绝不像肉库区(meatpacking district)和大部分苏豪区(SoHo)那么时尚。它所保留的是个性、古朴的风貌，这样的风貌在一些古色古香的热门场所依然清晰可辨，比如橄榄树咖啡馆(Olive Tree Cafe)——那里设有黑板桌，还会放映查理·卓别林的电影；还有Bitter End、Back Fence这类可以聆听老式音乐的地方。
“It still feels personal, honest and sincere, almost like you’re going to see a local rock or folk band play,” Mr. Gran said of the music scene. “There’s a little bit of that mixed in with the drunken college kids.”
“那里给人的感觉依然很个性、很纯粹、很真诚，几乎就像是你要去看一场当地摇滚或民谣乐队的现场演出，”格兰在谈到格林尼治村的音乐场所时说，“那里或多或少有那么点儿与形形色色的人为伍的感觉，客人当中还有一些醉酒的大学生。”
These kids, of course, are students at New York University, whose buildings dominate the streetscape around the revamped Washington Square Park and east of LaGuardia Place. And more N.Y.U. structures are on the way. Last year the City Council granted final approval to a huge university expansion plan that would add four buildings, totaling a skyscraper’s worth of new square footage, to two sprawling apartment complexes north of Houston Street. The plan, which had been unanimously opposed by Community Board 2, will significantly alter the open, tower-in-the-park aesthetic of the complexes, Washington Square Village and Silver Towers. The planned expansion faces a legal challenge from a consortium of faculty, community and preservation groups.
这些学生显然来自纽约大学，该校的建筑群俯瞰着华盛顿广场公园周围及拉瓜迪亚广场以东的街道。更多的校园建筑正在筹建中。去年，市议会最终批准了一项大规模扩建校园计划。纽约大学将新建四栋大楼，新增面积将相当于一整栋摩天大厦，在休斯顿街(Houston Street)北面，也将建立两栋宽阔的公寓大楼。扩建计划在2号社区委员会（Community Board 2，纽约市的一个政府机关——译注）遭到一致反对，因为它将显著改变纽约大学的建筑群、华盛顿广场村(Washington Square Village)和Silver Towers大厦所形成的开阔景观，打破大厦与公园相映成趣的协调美。扩建计划面临着来自教职员工、当地社区及历史建筑保护组织的法律挑战。
All this notwithstanding, Genc Jakupi, a resident of the area since 2005, has increased his commitment to its future. In 2011 he left his Thompson Street studio co-op, which he now rents out, and moved into the space above Miss Lily’s, the hopping Jamaican diner he co-owns on Houston. Later, when he and his partners learned that a Subway restaurant might open next door, they persuaded the landlord to lease them the space for a hip variety store, a bake shop and Melvin’s Juice Box. “You might as well invest in a place you enjoy living,” Mr. Jakupi said. “Everything I need is within a three- or four-block radius.”
尽管如此，从2005年起入住此地的根茨·亚库皮(Genc Jakupi)仍然看好格林尼治村的未来，并加大了自己的投入。2011年，他离开汤普森街(Thompson Street)的合作工作室（现在这个工作室已被他租了出去），搬到了Miss Lily's的楼上。Miss Lily's是一家生意蒸蒸日上的牙买加餐厅，地处休斯顿街，亚库皮是其共同所有人之一。后来，他和合伙人得知赛百味(Subway)有可能在隔壁开一家餐厅，于是说服房东不如将场地租给他们，用来开一家时尚杂货店、一家面包房和Melvin's Juice Box有机果汁吧。“你可能也会为自己喜欢住的地方投资吧，”亚库皮说，“我需要的所有东西，都在三、四个街区范围内。”
He walks to art films at the Angelika Film Center, the Film Forum and the IFC Center. He plays basketball down the street at the Avenue of the Americas. And he meets friends around the corner at the 98-year-old Caffe Dante, across Macdougal Street from a row of neo-Federal-style town houses, landmarks whose facades are painted in candy-shop colors.
想看艺术电影的时候，他就走路去安吉莉卡电影中心(Angelika Film Center)、电影论坛(Film Forum)和IFC中心(IFC Center)；想打篮球的时候，就会来到美洲大道(Avenue of the Americas)的街头；想见朋友的时候，就去Caffe Dante咖啡馆的角落里找个桌位。这家咖啡馆拥有98年的历史，位于麦克杜格尔街(Macdougal Street)一排新联邦式(neo-federal-style)联排别墅的对面。那些别墅的正面都漆成糖果店的颜色，是当地的地标建筑。
“It doesn’t really feel old,” Mr. Jakupi said of the area’s textured character. “It feels present, because you have everything together in one area.”
“这里其实并不会让人觉得很古老，”谈到这片地区的历史氛围，亚库皮说，“这里给人的感觉很现代，因为你需要的所有东西都集中在同一片区域里。”