SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina — As the 100th anniversary approaches, the clusters of visitors have thickened at the street-corner museum in Sarajevo’s old town that stands where Gavrilo Princip claimed his place in history on June 28, 1914, firing the shots that killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand and his wife, Sophie, and setting off World War I.
波黑萨拉热窝——在一战百年纪念临近之时，萨拉热窝老城区的这个街角博物馆前，参观者激增，络绎不绝。1914年6月28日，加夫里洛·普林西普(Gavrilo Princip)在历史中留下了自己重重的足迹：他在这里刺杀了弗朗茨·斐迪南大公(Archduke Franz Ferdinand)及其妻子苏菲(Sophie)，引爆了第一次世界大战。
But for all the excited chatter among the tourists on the sidewalk where the 19-year-old Princip fired his Browning semiautomatic pistol, killing the 50-year-old heir to the Hapsburg throne and his pregnant consort, there is a pervasive ordinariness in the setting. Little about it conveys the enormity of the assassination and its aftermath: the major European powers and their allies — Britain, France, Germany, Russia, and the Hapsburg and Ottoman Empires — marching in lock step into war. 
路边游人兴致勃勃地纷纷谈论。就在这里，19岁的普林西普扣动手中的勃朗宁半自动手枪，杀死了50岁的哈布斯堡王朝(Hapsburg)继承人及其怀有身孕的配偶。周围的环境弥漫着平凡如常的气息，几乎无法让人悬想当年行刺事件本身及其后果的沉重。在普林西普刺杀成功后，欧洲主要大国及盟国——英、法、德、俄，以及哈布斯堡王朝、奥斯曼帝国，便齐步迈向了战争。
In the centenary commemorations in Sarajevo, culminating on Saturday with a concert in the old city hall, peace is the official theme. But the ethnic and nationalist divisions that motivated Princip are anything but history in this part of the world, which was ravaged only two decades ago by bloody sectarian fighting and is even now the scene of dueling efforts to define Princip’s legacy. As Europe diligently promotes an ideology of harmony, broad areas of the continent, the Middle East and elsewhere continue to struggle with versions of the destructive forces unleashed that day.
此次在萨拉热窝举行的百年纪念活动，以周六在旧市政厅举行的音乐会为活动高潮，官方主题是“和平”。然而在这里，当年促使普林西普行刺的族群分歧和民族主义思想，并未成为尘封的历史。短短20年前，血腥的族群纷争在此上演；即使到了今天，关于普林西普的历史评价仍褒贬不一，争论激烈。在欧洲极力倡导“和谐”的大背景下，由当日的“萨拉热窝事件”释放出的破坏力，仍在以各种形式困扰着包括欧洲大陆和中东在内的诸多地区。
“To me, what is happening across Bosnia today, and what is happening in many other parts of the world, is very much like the beginning of the 20th century,” said Vera Katz, a scholar at the University of Sarajevo’s History Institute. “Seeing how some of our communities have made Princip into a mythical figure has made me think that we have hardly moved on at all.”
“在我看来，当下波黑和世界其他很多地方正在发生的种种，与20世纪初的情况有很多相似之处，”萨拉热窝大学历史研究所学者维拉·卡茨(Vera Katz)指出，“当我看到一些群体将普林西普神化，我就会感到，我们并未从历史中前进半步。”
The archducal couple were on their way to a civic reception in the yellow-and orange-banded city hall, an endowment of the Hapsburg era that borrowed from Moorish Spain, when the violence began, with a conspirator tossing a homemade bomb from a bridge over the Miljacka River. It bounced off the folded canopy of the archduke’s car before exploding.
整个事件起初发生于大公夫妇前往市政厅，参加为他们举行的欢迎仪式的路上。市政厅由哈布斯堡王朝修建，外墙黄橙相间，借鉴了摩尔式建筑风格。一名暗杀同谋者在米里雅茨河(Miljacka)的桥上将一枚自制炸弹抛向大公乘坐的敞篷汽车。但炸弹在爆炸前，就被收起的车篷弹开了。
What ensued stands as a monument to imperial folly and to the role of chance and mischance in history. Shortly before 11 a.m., the couple left the reception, deeply shaken by the bombing but determined to see the day’s formalities through. With the archduke in a military tunic and helmet, and the duchess in a dress of white filigreed lace with a matching hat and parasol, they headed back along the lightly guarded Miljacka embankment — and, 500 yards on, to their fateful encounter with Princip.
接下来发生的一切，体现了王朝愚蠢，也见证了机缘与厄运在历史中的角色。上午11点之前不久，这对夫妇离开了欢迎仪式。在刚刚的炸弹事件后他们惊魂未定，却打定主意要继续原定的安排。大公身着军装、头戴钢盔，夫人穿着绣镶白色蕾丝的裙装，配礼帽和小阳伞，二人又回到了只有轻兵布防的米里雅茨河堤——再向前行驶500码，便会与普林西普发生致命的遭遇。
A century later, Bosnia’s Serbs, Muslims and Croats remain deeply divided in their attitudes toward Princip. Many Serbs view him as a heroic fighter against Austro-Hungarian rule — on behalf of Serbs first, but also, they say, on behalf of Croats and Muslims — and thus as an early standard-bearer for the South Slav kingdom of Yugoslavia, which emerged from the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 and disintegrated amid the resurgent nationalist and sectarian passions of the 1990s.
100年过去了，波黑的塞尔维亚族、穆斯林、克罗地亚族，仍在就如何评价普林西普而争论不休。许多塞尔维亚族将他视为代表塞族反抗奥匈帝国统治的英雄，当然，他们说普林西普也代表了穆斯林和克罗地亚族。他也因此成了1919年随《凡尔赛和约》(Treaty of Versailles)的签署而诞生的南斯拉夫的旗手。这个南部斯拉夫人的国度，已经在1990年代随着民族主义和宗教分歧的重新兴起而土崩瓦解。
Among the largely Catholic Croats and some Bosnian Muslims, many of whom looked to the authorities in Vienna at the time of the assassination for protection against Balkan domination by the mainly Orthodox Serbs, it is more common to condemn Princip as an anarchist or terrorist, as the Sarajevo court did when it sentenced him to 20 years’ imprisonment. He died of tuberculosis, proud and unrepentant, in a prison in Terezin, now part of the Czech Republic, in 1918.
然而，主要信仰天主教的克罗地亚人，以及一些波斯尼亚穆斯林，在暗杀发生时却向维也纳当局寻求庇护，从而抵御主要信仰东正教的塞尔维亚人在巴尔干地区的统治。在他们中间，谴责普林西普是“无政府主义者”或“恐怖分子”的声音较为普遍，这也与当时萨拉热窝法院判处普林西普20年监禁时的评价是一致的。1918年，普林西普在今属捷克的泰雷津(Terezin)因肺结核死于狱中，至死傲慢，拒不认罪。
As a result of the political tug of war, commemorations of the assassination, like so much else in Bosnia, have been divided along sectarian lines. Serb hard-liners have chosen to boycott events financed by the European Union in favor of their own ceremonies, complete with new statues and mosaics of Princip and speeches and banquets in his honor. These alternative events are being held in parts of the country assigned to Serb control in the American-sponsored Dayton peace accords of 1995, which ended that decade’s conflict.
在政治分歧的作用下，纪念暗杀事件100周年的活动，也像波黑的其他种种，沿着族群宗教的界限区分开来。塞族强硬派选择抵制所有由欧盟出资举办纪念活动，而是主张举行自己的纪念仪式，制作普林西普的新塑像和拼镶画像，组织歌颂普林西普的演说和纪念宴会。另行组织的那些纪念活动，是在1995年美国主持签订的《代顿和平协议》中划归塞族控制的地区举行的。当年，这项协议的签署，结束了此地区持续多年的冲突。
The concert, which will be broadcast live in 40 countries, is the centerpiece of a two-week program of conferences, concerts, poetry readings, plays and sporting performances whose organizers are determined not to take sides in the Princip dispute. 
这场向40个国家直播的音乐会，是为期两周的纪念活动的核心。百年纪念中包括了研讨会议、音乐会、诗歌朗诵会、舞台剧、体育表演赛等各种活动。组织方表示，不在关于普林西普的历史定性问题上支持任何一方。
Despite the boycott by hard-line Serbs, the hope is that the centenary can be used to move sectarian groups toward a new sense of the benefits of a shared political life, and away from the political paralysis that has characterized Bosnia since the Dayton agreement.
尽管遭到塞族强硬派的抵制，组织方仍然希望百年纪念活动能够推动各宗教派别向着互利共存的政治前景努力，从而转变自《代顿协议》签署以来，贯穿波黑政局的混乱和瘫痪。
That accord, which ended the 1990s blood bath, gave Bosnia a multilayered political structure, with more than a dozen governmental and parliamentary bodies — all elected on sectarian lines, and all now tottering under the weight of endemic corruption and fierce personal rivalries.
这个协议终结了上世纪90年代的流血冲突，也为波黑赋予了复杂的多层政治架构，十几个政府机关和议事机构，都根据宗教派别的差别选举产生。但如今，这些机构都困扰于比比皆是的腐败和激烈的个人斗争，因而举步维艰。
Nearly two decades later, Bosnia remains one of the poorest nations in Europe. It has an official youth unemployment rate nearing 50 percent and an economy that is still 20 percent smaller than it was when the fighting broke out here in 1992. Hundreds of thousands of refugees remain scattered across Europe, wide areas of the country are virtually depopulated, and tens of thousands of homes are still abandoned and in ruins. Seething popular discontent led to days of protests and rioting this year, including the firebombing of government buildings in Sarajevo and other cities.
将近20年后，波黑仍是欧洲最穷的国家之一。官方数据显示，青年失业率接近50%，经济规模仍比1992年战争爆发前小20%。成千上万的难民流落于欧洲各地，国内多地人口剧减，无数的房屋家园遗为荒墟。今年，愤怒的民众进行了持续数天的示威和暴动，包括使用燃烧弹攻击萨拉热窝及其他城市的政府大楼。
After those upheavals, Mayor Ivo Komsic of Sarajevo, a Bosnian Croat, appealed to the country’s 3.8 million people to make the 1914 centenary an occasion to renounce sectarian animosities in favor of a new beginning that could carry Bosnia to membership in the European Union — a status Croatia has already achieved and Serbia is nearing. “The eyes of the world will be focused on Sarajevo once more,” Mr. Komsic said, “and it is important that we send messages completely different from the messages of war we sent in 1914 and 1992.”
在这些动荡之后，萨拉热窝市长、克罗地亚族人伊沃·科姆希奇(Ivo Komsic)呼吁全国380万民众，借1914年战争爆发的百年纪念之机，放下民族宗教敌意，让波黑走向加入欧盟的新篇章——克罗地亚已经加入欧盟，塞尔维亚也即将加入。“全世界的目光将再一次投向萨拉热窝，”科姆希奇说，“而这一次，我们要向世界传达一个崭新的、与1914年和1992年完全不同的声音。”
Many Bosnians of all creeds say the country has already turned that corner. What is impeding the building of a modern, multidenominational state, they say, are the narrow-minded, sectarian politicians empowered by the Dayton accords, and not the ancient hatreds limned by the Nobel Prize-winning author Ivo Andric in his oft-quoted “Letter From 1920.” In it, he described the depth of “tenderness and loving passion” among the people of Sarajevo, but wrote, “In secret depths underneath all this hide burning hatreds, entire hurricanes of tethered and compressed hatreds maturing and awaiting their hour.”
许多不同信仰的波黑人都相信，国家已经发生了转变。同时他们也认为，建立一个多元化的现代国家的阻力，是那些凭借《代顿协议》取得权力、囿于派系立场的狭隘政客，并不是诺贝尔文学奖得主伊沃·安德里奇(Ivo Andric)在《来自1920年的信》(Letter From 1920)中描写的“古老的仇恨”。在这篇常被引用的作品中，他勾勒了萨拉热窝人“柔情与热情”之深切，但他笔锋一转，又写道，“在这之下，却深深隐埋着燃烧的仇恨，压抑束缚着的仇恨之飓风，正在酝酿，等待爆发。”
To a reporter returning to Sarajevo for the first time since the siege of the early 1990s, the evidence of a new beginning is palpable. Even in driving rain, bars and restaurants are packed past midnight, laughter seems contagious, and joy at the achievement of the Bosnian soccer team in reaching the World Cup in Brazil seems boundless — and not only among Muslims and Croats, whose communities account for a majority of the players. When shells and mortars were falling in the 1990s and Serb artillery batteries were targeting bread and water lines, hospitals and schools, it seemed chimerical to think the city would ever prosper again.
对于一个自20世纪90年代初萨拉热窝被围困以来，首次重返这里的记者而言，这座城市复兴的迹象随处可见。即使在下着大雨的午夜，酒吧和餐厅里依然人头攒动，谈笑声不绝于耳，而波黑入围巴西世界杯更是让这里成为了一片欢乐的海洋。球队主要由穆斯林和克罗地亚族组成，但分享荣耀的可不止是这两个族群。遥想1990年代这里的枪林弹雨，恍若隔世。在塞尔维亚部队将大炮瞄向面包和饮用水供给线、瞄向医院和学校的当时，这座城市的复兴曾是那么遥不可及的幻想。
Against this, there are the unresolved animosities among sectarian hard-liners, including some who are involved in the parallel centenary commemorations. Among them is the Sarajevo-born film director Emir Kusturica, 59, who is of Muslim descent but converted to Serbian Orthodoxy after the turmoil of the 1990s. He is the driving force behind ceremonies honoring Princip that will be held on a peninsula jutting into the Drina River at Visegrad, about 70 miles from Sarajevo on the border between Bosnia and Serbia.
与此形成对比的，是民族宗教强硬派当中，并未化解的敌意。怀有这样情绪的一些人便参加了另行举办的那些百年纪念活动。他们当中，包括出生于萨拉热窝的59岁电影导演埃米尔·库斯图里卡(Emir Kusturica)。这名穆斯林血统的导演，在1990年代的动荡之后转信塞尔维亚东正教。他正是这些讴歌普林西普的纪念活动背后的推动力，该系列活动在维舍格勒(Visegrad)一个伸入德里纳河(Drina River)的半岛上举行，距萨拉热窝大约70英里（约110公里），位于波黑和塞尔维亚的边界。
Visegrad, whose population was once two-thirds Muslim, is overwhelmingly Serb now. It suffered some of the worst Serb atrocities, including mass rapes and incinerations of whole families locked into burning homes, in the first months of “ethnic cleansing” in eastern Bosnia in 1992. As part of a bid to regenerate the town, Mr. Kusturica has overseen the construction of a $20 million model village, Andricgrad, based on old Serb traditions. It is there that the most elaborate ceremonies for Princip will be held, in the presence of leaders from Serbia.
维舍格勒人口曾经有三分之二是穆斯林，而今塞族人口占绝对多数。1992年，波黑东部发生“种族清洗”的最初几个月里，这里遭受了最惨无人道的塞族暴行，他们进行大规模强奸，将很多人全家锁在燃烧的房子中活活烧死。作为重建规划的一部分，库斯图里卡以塞尔维亚历史传统为基础，耗资两千万美金主持修建了一座样板小镇“安德里奇城”(Andricgrad)。也正是在这里，最精心筹划的纪念普林西普的活动将拉开帷幕，塞尔维亚领导人也将出席。