Fried food is probably not on anyone’s lists of healthy eats, but you have to start with this: Fat is good for you.
油炸食物很可能不在任何人的健康食谱上，但是你首先得知道这一点：脂肪对你有益。
The long-lived people of Crete might not drink a glass of olive oil a day, but they consume three times as much as we do, and that’s probably more desirable than our misguided notion that the less fat you eat, the better.
那些长寿的克里特岛人也许不是每天喝一杯橄榄油，但是他们摄入的油是我们的三倍。我们一向误以为“摄入的脂肪越少越健康”，而上述事实很可能更合我们的心意。
There are differences among fats, of course, but with trans-fats in full retreat and lard and butter making comebacks, the whole fat-eating thing is starting to make some sense. Of course, the key word is moderation. You can eat fat as long as it’s high quality and you don’t eat it to the exclusion of plants.
当然，脂肪也有很多种，但是随着反式脂肪全线溃败，猪油和黄油东山再起，摄入脂肪这件事开始变得合理。当然，关键是要适量。你可以摄入脂肪，只要它是高质量的脂肪，而且不要把蔬菜水果排除在外。
That’s one reason you shouldn’t reject deep-frying at home; I do it about once a month. The second reason is that you know you love it. The third is that it can be fast and easy. The fourth is that you can deep-fry plants. (And anything else.)
这是不要拒绝在家烹制油炸食品的第一个原因。我大约每个月做一次。第二个原因是你知道自己喜欢油炸食品。第三个原因是它可以很快轻松做好。第四个原因是你可以油炸水果蔬菜（以及其他任何东西）。
Frying is thought of as messy, but this can be mitigated by the simplest of measures: using a pot that is heavy, broad and deep, like a well-made stockpot. Choose this, add a fair amount of oil and the process is simplified and neat.
人们通常认为油炸会把厨房弄得一团糟，但是通过一些简单的方法可以减轻这种混乱：用一个又厚又宽又深的锅，比如坚固的汤锅。用这种锅，再加入大量的油，这个过程可以变得简单、整洁。
Which oil? How much? Since most deep-frying is done at around 350 degrees, this whole notion that olive oil is inappropriate for frying is nonsense; it smokes at 375 (and smoking isn’t the end of the story, either). So olive oil — especially “pure,” which is a step below extra-virgin and in theory less expensive — is a fine option, especially for something in which you’d like its flavor, which could include any of the recipes here.
用哪种油？用多少油？因为油炸的温度大部分在350华氏度左右，所以认为橄榄油不适合油炸的想法是毫无道理的，因为橄榄油在375华氏度冒烟（而且冒烟也不是完全不行）。所以橄榄油是个不错的选择，尤其是你想保持食物原味的话，比如本文提到的所有菜谱。其中“纯”橄榄油特别值得考虑，它比特级初榨橄榄油差一点，所以理论上也便宜一点。
Unless, that is, you’re seasoning tempura with soy sauce, in which case you might choose peanut oil, which is as flavorful as olive oil, but obviously different. The third excellent option is grapeseed oil, which is as close to neutral as you can find.
如果你用酱油给天妇罗调味，那你可以选用花生油，它和橄榄油一样美味，但是它们明显很不同。第三种不错的选择是葡萄籽油，你会发现它最接近中性。
None of these is as inexpensive as vegetable oil, or soy, or corn or Wesson. And if you don’t have problems with chemical extraction, you might choose one of them; they are, after all, what is used for nearly all commercial deep-frying. If, however, you can afford it and you want the best possible frying experience, use one of those three mentioned above, or at least a cold-pressed neutral oil like safflower or sunflower.
这三种油都没有植物油、大豆油、玉米油或威臣(Wesson)油那么便宜。如果你不介意化学提取法，那你可以选择那些便宜的油，毕竟几乎所有油炸商品用的都是那些油。但是，如果你买得起，而且想获得最佳油炸体验，那你就选用我上面提到的三种油，或者至少使用冷榨的中性油，比如红花油或向日葵籽油。
Money is an issue, since on the face of it, frying isn’t cheap. When it comes to the “how much” question, I’d say two quarts. That’s not a fixed number, and 48 ounces (1 1/2 quarts, or 6 cups) is probably enough in most cases. Sometimes you can get away with a quart or even less.
钱是个问题，因为从表面上看，油炸不便宜。要说具体用多少油，我觉得是两夸脱。这个数字不固定，大部分情况下48盎司（1.5夸脱或者6杯）很可能就够了。有时，你可能只需要1夸脱，甚至更少。
But more is generally better, and you can reuse the oil quite a few times for deep-frying, stir-frying or sautéing, as long as you strain out most solids — and you need not be fanatic about this; a quick run through a strainer is fine — and keep it in the refrigerator. (You might consider keeping oil you’re not using in the near future in the refrigerator anyway; rancidity comes from heat and light and it’s nasty. If you have an old bottle of oil sitting around in your kitchen, smell it; you’ll probably throw it away.)
但是多放些油总是更好，你可以重复使用好几次，用它来油炸、炒菜或者煎制食物，只要把油渣滤掉就行——不要紧张，用漏勺飞快地过一遍就好了——然后把油放入冰箱（反正短期内不用的油都最好放入冰箱保存，因为热和光会让油变臭，闻起来很恶心。如果你的厨房里有一瓶用了很久的油，你闻一下就知道了；估计你闻完就想把它扔了）。
The goal of frying is to crisp the outside perfectly and cook the inside just enough, while keeping the whole package from absorbing more than a bit of oil. Most of this happens magically, as long as you follow the rules, which I’ll get to in a second. There are three or four levels of protection you can give the interior, and all of them become satisfying crusts — again, as long as everything goes right.
油炸的最佳效果是让食物外面松脆，里面鲜嫩，外面和里面都不要吸收太多油。只要你遵守规则——我下面就要讲到这些规则——大部分情况下，这些目标都会神奇地实现。你可以给食物内部三到四层保护，这些保护层会变成可口的外壳，当然前提是一切都不出错。
The first layer of protection is the stuff itself: you allow the outside of the food you’re cooking to become the crisp part (that’s like a French fry, or falafel or “naked” fried chicken). Then there’s the second layer: a light dusting of cornmeal, flour or the like (I like this with fried squid or fried chicken, especially when seasoned heavily with black pepper). Then a fluffy coating, like tempura or a doughy, pancake-like batter (the latter, it seems to me, is often — perhaps usually — overkill). And finally, the old flour, egg and bread crumb treatment, which is, well, yum.
第一种保护层是食物本身：你让油炸食物的外部变成外壳的一部分（比如炸薯条、炸豆丸子或者“裸”炸鸡）。第二种是撒上一层薄薄的燕麦片或面粉之类的东西（炸鱿鱼或者炸鸡的时候，我喜欢这样做，我会撒上很多黑胡椒）。第三种是裹上一层松软的东西，比如天妇罗或者柔软的薄饼式的面糊（我觉得后者往往保护得太过了）。最后一种保护层就是传统的面粉、鸡蛋和面包屑混合物，它通常十分美味。
They’re all pretty much appropriate for anything. You choose the food you want to fry, you choose the coating, you follow these general instructions and it’ll work.
它们差不多适合任何东西。你选好想油炸的食物，选好外面的裹料，遵循这些规则，就肯定能炸好。
Start by putting at least two inches of oil in a heavy and, as I said, deep pot. Less than two inches and you may not be deep-frying; it’ll work, but you might have to turn the food more often, it might stick to the bottom a bit and it might cook less evenly.
首先，在一个厚重的深锅里放入至少两英寸油。少于两英寸就不是油炸了。那也不是不行，但是可能需要过于频繁地翻动食物，食物可能沾到锅底，而且可能炸得不均匀。
Turn the heat to medium or medium-high and go about your business. Part of that business might be finding a thermometer, because you want that oil to be between 350 and 365 in almost every instance. The heavy pot will help keep that temperature stable.
把火调至中火或者中高火，然后开始动手。第一步可能是找个温度计，因为不管炸什么，都需要把油温控制在350至365华氏度之间。厚一点的锅能帮助保持温度恒定。
You don’t have to have a thermometer, though, because there are a couple of other ways to know when the oil is ready. It’s just about right when a pinch of flour sizzles without burning immediately; that’s not super-accurate, but if you then add a single piece of food and it first sinks a bit and then immediately rises to the top, the oil is perfect. If it sits on the bottom like a flounder, the oil isn’t hot enough; if it doesn’t sink at all the oil is too hot. The oil is also too hot if it’s smoking.
不过，也可能不需要温度计，因为还有几种方法可以看出油够不够热。放一小撮面粉进去，如果它嘶嘶作响，却没有马上燃烧，那油温可能正好。那不是很准，但是如果放入一块食物，它先沉下去一点，然后很快浮到上面，那油温正好。如果它像比目鱼一样沉在下面不上来，那油不够热；如果它完全不往下沉，那油太热了。如果油冒烟，那也是太热了。
Add your food in batches and don’t crowd; you do not want the temperature to plummet, nor do you want the pieces of food nestling against one another. (Though it’s fine if they bump.) You may or may not have to turn the pieces, but that’s easy, because they’ll be floating and they won’t stick. Remove them with a slotted spoon, tongs or spider; you’ll know when they’re done because the color will be evenly gorgeous.
分批放入食物，一次不要放太多。否则会让油温猛降，食物会粘到一起（不过它们互相撞击是没问题的）。给食物翻不翻身都行，但是那实际上很容易，因为它们浮在上面，不会粘连。然后用篦式漏勺、钳子或者笊篱把食物捞出来。从颜色就能看出有没有炸好，因为炸好的食物颜色很漂亮，而且分布得很均匀。
Take it slow and either eat the food as it comes out of the fat (you can drain on paper towels or, if you want to be fancy, a cloth napkin) or keep it warm for as little time as possible in a low oven. Myself, I like to fry when people are standing around eating the food as fast as I can produce it; that is really fun. And good for you.
慢慢品尝，要么一出锅就吃（可以用纸巾把油吸干，要想显得阔气，就用布餐巾吸油），或者在低温烤箱中保温，时间越短越好。我自己是喜欢周围站一圈人，我一炸出来，他们就吃，那真的很有趣，而且有益健康。