WASHINGTON — With just hours left in his presidency, Barack Obama toasted about 30 of his closest advisers in the private second-floor residence of the White House — one final chance for a departing president to say goodbye.
华盛顿——总统任期的最后几个小时里，贝拉克·奥巴马在白宫二楼的私人房间中会见了30余个最亲密的顾问，这是离任总统说再见的最后机会。
Champagne flute in hand, Mr. Obama offered a rare peek at his family’s quarters on Thursday night, by then already stripped of personal artwork that had hung for years. Mr. Obama showed off the Gettysburg Address and a bust of Winston Churchill, and the group lingered until about 11 p.m. on the Truman Balcony, overlooking the National Mall where thousands would gather the next morning for Donald J. Trump’s inauguration.
周四晚上，手拿香槟酒杯的奥巴马提供了一个罕见的机会，让人们一窥他的家庭居所，那时，在墙上悬挂了多年的私人艺术藏品已被摘下。奥巴马展示了葛底斯堡演讲稿(Gettysburg Address)和温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的半身像，这群人在杜鲁门阳台上逗留到晚上11点左右，俯瞰着国家广场，翌日早上，数以千计的人将聚集在这里，参加唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的就职典礼。
Those who celebrated then with Mr. Obama — and gathered again on Friday with about 2,000 political appointees at Joint Base Andrews — were the truest of the believers during eight years in which hope was repeatedly tested and change often proved difficult.
这些人当年曾经庆祝奥巴马的就职典礼，并于周五同2000多名政治任命官员们再次聚集在安德鲁斯联合基地，在这希望遭到反复考验，变革往往被证明极为困难的八年里，他们是最奥巴马最真诚的信任者。
“For all of you who have just done amazing, remarkable work, most of it unheralded, most of it without fanfare, most of it without you getting any word of thanks, we could not be prouder of you,” Mr. Obama said before leaving for a family vacation in Palm Springs, Calif.
“你们所有人刚刚完成了惊人的、杰出的工作，其中大部分都没有大张旗鼓，不为世人所知，也没有为你们赢得任何感激的话语，但我们为你们感到无上的骄傲，”奥巴马在携全家人去往加利福尼亚州棕榈泉度假之前说。
The tears flowed freely Friday as the former president’s aides waved and cheered, almost as if doing so might somehow prolong a historic moment in the nation’s capital — and prevent the arrival of another. Few of them wanted to make the 25-minute drive back to Mr. Trump’s Washington anytime soon.
周五，前总统的助手们向他挥手和欢呼，他们的泪水尽情流淌，仿佛这样就能延长发生在首都的这个历史时刻，并防止另一个历史时刻的到来。他们之中几乎没有人想开车25分钟赶到属于特朗普的华盛顿去。
But as the jet roared down the runway for takeoff, it became clear that the Obama era in America had passed, and with it an approach to public life that is unlikely to be repeated soon.
但是，随着喷气机在起飞跑道上咆哮，美国的奥巴马时代显然已经成为过去，一种公共生活方式也随之而逝，它不太可能很快重现。
“They went out the way they came in,” said Cody Keenan, Mr. Obama’s chief speechwriter, who attended the going-away at Andrews. “It was graceful and dignified and generous and warm to everyone who worked for them.”
“他们以来到这里时的方式离开了，”奥巴马的首席演讲撰稿人科迪·基南(Cody Keenan)说，他也参加了在安德鲁斯的送行。“对于所有曾经为他们工作过的人来说，这种方式是优雅、庄严、慷慨而温暖的。”
Not everyone shares the sorrow of the people who gathered at Andrews. Many of those wearing bright red “Make America Great Again” hats as they arrived in Washington for Mr. Trump’s inaugural were all too happy to see Mr. Obama go.
不是每个人都和聚集在安德鲁斯的人一样悲伤。许多人头戴写有“让美国恢复伟大荣光”的大红帽子，来到华盛顿参加特朗普的就职典礼，他们很乐于看到奥巴马的离去。
Many viewed the 44th president as self-important, inexperienced and far too Hollywood for their tastes. To his rivals and critics, the eight years of Obama brought I.R.S. scandals, Benghazi, Hillary Clinton’s home-brew email, too much focus on gays and immigrants, too few jobs, and a world suddenly on fire.
许多人认为第44任总统高傲自大、经验不足，对于他们来说有点太好莱坞了。而对于他的竞争对手和批评家们来说，奥巴马的八年带来了美国国家税务局(I.R.S.)丑闻、班加西(Benghazi)、希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的私人电子邮件服务器、太多对同性恋和移民的关注、太少的工作机会，以及一个突然起火的世界。
But members of both political parties in Washington are likely to agree that the city will be a different place without the Obamas living in the White House.
但是华盛顿两个政党的成员可能都会同意，如果没有奥巴马一家在白宫的生活，这个城市将会是另一个样子。
When the family entered their new home in 2009, they brought with them two precocious young girls, a bouncing puppy, modern art and a new swing set on the South Lawn. Michelle Obama dug a vegetable garden and sponsored a farmer’s market a few blocks from the White House.
当这家人2009年入住新家时，他们带来了两个懂事的小姑娘、一只活泼的小奶狗、若干现代艺术品，以及白宫南草坪上的一个新秋千。米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)种了一个菜园，并赞助了距离白宫几个街区的一个农产品市集。
Those early days were a blur, as Mr. Obama and the Democratic-controlled Congress confronted global economic collapse. From the Oval Office, the president and his hard-charging staff pushed through a spending bill, an auto bailout, and a health care overhaul that would become a political albatross for years.
那些早期的事情已经变得模糊，当时奥巴马和民主党控制的国会面临全球经济崩溃。在椭圆办公室，总统和他干劲十足的幕僚们推动了开支法案、汽车产业救援，以及对医保系统的全面修整，后者将成为他多年来在政治上无法摆脱的苦恼。
In the years that followed, America got used to Mr. Obama’s long speeches, dazzling state dinners, endless weekends at the golf course and the occasional surprise walk outside the White House gates, a moment that frustrated aides described with the phrase “the bear is loose.”
在随后的岁月里，美国习惯了奥巴马的长篇演讲、令人眼花缭乱的国宴、许多个在高尔夫球场上度过的周末、以及偶尔出人意料的白宫之外的散步，他那些烦恼的助手们将那种时刻称之为“熊出洞了”。
Gridlock also followed in the nation’s capital. Never one to cultivate close relationships with lawmakers, Mr. Obama found his legislative agenda largely stymied after 2010, when Republicans took control of the House of Representatives. Frustrated, Mr. Obama used the power of his office to push through his agenda.
在这个国家的首都，僵局也接踵而至。奥巴马从来没能与立法者建立密切的关系，他发现自己的立法议程在2010年后大大受阻，当时共和党人控制了众议院。沮丧之下，奥巴马利用行政力量来推动自己的议程。
Much of that agenda is now at risk. As the helicopter carrying Mr. Obama from the Capitol lifted off after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, the new president was already signaling his intention to use those same executive powers to reverse what his predecessor had done.
目前，这个议程大部分都处于危险之中。随着直升机在就职典礼之后载着奥巴马离开国会山，新总统特朗普已经表示，他打算利用同样的行政权力扭转前任的所作所为。
First, though, came the traditional tea on Friday morning among Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump and their wives at the White House. Then the two men rode together in the armored presidential limousine for the brief trip to the Capitol for Mr. Trump’s swearing-in and speech.
不过，首先到来的是周五上午奥巴马夫妇与特朗普夫妇在白宫的传统茶会。然后两个男人一起坐着防弹的豪华总统座驾，来到不远处特朗普宣誓就职和发表演讲的国会山地点。
As the handoff of power approached, Mr. Obama’s supporters took to Twitter to recall his years in the White House, adding #ThankYouObamas to their remembrances. The hashtag quickly became a top trend across the nation.
当权力交接临近时，奥巴马的支持者们在Twitter上回忆了他的白宫岁月，用#ThankYouObamas这个标签表示他们的怀念。这个主题标签迅速在全国范围内火热起来。
In a series of his own Twitter messages on Friday morning, Mr. Obama said goodbye publicly and directed followers to a video message seeking suggestions for building a foundation to create what he called a “living, working center for citizenship.”
在周五上午他自己发布的一系列推文中，奥巴马公开说了再见，并给出了一个视频链接，该视频为创建一个基金会寻求建议，它旨在创造他口中的“公民的生活与工作中心”。
Mr. Obama left a private note for Mr. Trump, continuing a tradition that past presidents have followed for decades. He also left a public note for the American people on his Facebook page.
奥巴马为特朗普留下了一封私密信件，继续保持着几十年来历任总统所遵循的传统。他还在他的Facebook页面上发表了写给美国人民的公开信。
“When the arc of progress seems slow, remember: America is not the project of any one person,” Mr. Obama wrote, a thinly veiled reference to his successor. “The single most powerful word in our democracy is the word ‘We.’ ‘We the People.’ ‘We shall overcome.’”
“当进步似乎放慢了脚步，要记住，美国不属于任何个人，”奥巴马写到，几乎毫不隐晦地直指自己的继任者。“在我们的民主当中，有一个字格外有力，那就是‘我们’。‘我们人民’。‘我们将会胜利’。”
He ended the note as he began his campaign, with three words: “Yes, we can.”
他以自己竞选时用过的那一句结束了这段话：“是的，我们可以。”