BANGKOK — The Thai military seized control of the country on Thursday and detained at least 25 leading politicians in a culmination of months of maneuvering by the Bangkok establishment to sideline a populist movement that has won every national election since 2001.
曼谷——周四，泰国军方取得了对国家的控制权，扣押了至少25名主要政治人物，曼谷权势阶层数月来策动的排挤民粹派别的活动由此达到高潮，该民粹派别赢得了自2001年以来的每一场全国大选。
It was the second time in a decade that the army had overthrown an elected government, but there were signs that this takeover could be more severe and include sharp curbs on Thailand’s freewheeling media.
这是十年来泰国军方第二次推翻民选政府，但相关迹象表明，此次接管行动可能更为严厉，措施包括对原本自由的泰国媒体的严格控制。
The coup was seen as a victory for the elites in Thailand who have grown disillusioned with popular democracy and have sought for years to diminish the electoral power of Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister who commands support in the rural north. Unable to win elections, the opposition has instead called for an appointed prime minister, and pleaded with the military for months to step in.
此次政变被视为泰国精英阶层的胜利，他们对大众民主制度大失所望，多年来一直在寻求削弱他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的选举能力，这名前总理拥有北部农村地区的支持。由于无法赢得选举，反动派转而呼吁任命总理，数月来一直恳求军方插手干预。
As soldiers spread out throughout Bangkok on Thursday, the generals issued a series of announcements, declaring most of the Constitution “terminated,” banning gatherings of more than five people, imposing a curfew and shutting schools.
周四，士兵在曼谷各处就位，将领们则发布了一系列公告，宣布“终止”大部分宪法，禁止举行五个人以上的聚会活动，同时实施宵禁，关闭学校。
The coup was at least the 12th military takeover since Thailand abandoned the absolute monarchy in 1932. But unlike many previous coups, which involved infighting among generals, Thursday’s military takeover had as a subtext the political awakening among rural Thais who have loyally supported Mr. Thaksin and benefited from patronage and policies such as universal health care and microloans.
自泰国1932年废除君主专制制度以来，这至少是泰国军方第十二次接管政权。不过，与之前的很多次政变——那些政变涉及将领内讧——不同，周四的军方接管还伴有泰国农村居民政治觉醒的背景，这些农村居民忠诚地支持他信，并且受益于赞助计划和全民医保、小额贷款等政策。
Critics of Mr. Thaksin, a billionaire tycoon who lives in self-imposed exile abroad, say he also took corruption to a new level.
批评他信的人士表示，他信还将腐败现象推到了空前严重的程度。身为亿万富豪的他信已经自我流放，目前居住在国外。
With one of Southeast Asia’s largest economies, Thailand has long been attractive to foreign investors and tourists drawn by its reputation as “the land of smiles.” But in recent months, it has made headlines for the many attempts by antigovernment protesters to suspend democracy, a jarring contrast with its open, cosmopolitan image.
长期以来，作为东南亚地区最大经济体之一，泰国一直凭借“微笑国度”的声誉吸引着外国投资者和游客。但最近几个月，泰国因反政府抗议者多次尝试中止民主制度的举动而登上媒体头条，这与泰国开放包容的形象形成了鲜明对比。
The military and Bangkok establishment now face the question of either retaining the power gained from the coup or returning the country to democracy — with the likelihood that Mr. Thaksin and his proven political machine would again return to power in elections. The coup in 2006 unseated Mr. Thaksin, but his backers came back to win at the polls, leading to his younger sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, becoming prime minister in 2011.
军方和泰国权势阶层目前面临着一个选择，是保留通过政变夺取的权力，还是使这个国家回归民主，如果是后一种选择，他信及其久经考验的政治机器就有可能再次胜选上台。2006年的政变迫使他信下台，他信的支持者却在选举中获胜，使得他信的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)于2011年成为泰国总理。
Although the leader of the antigovernment movement, Suthep Thaugsuban, was detained Thursday, his supporters praised the coup. “This is a victory day for the people,” Samdin Lertbutr, an antigovernment protest leader, said in an interview. “The military has done their job. And we have done our job.”
尽管反政府运动领导人素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)已在周四遭到扣押，他的支持者仍然对政变表示称赞。“对于人民来说，这是胜利之日，”反政府抗议活动领导人杉丁·勒布特(Samdin Lertbutr)接受采访时表示。“军方尽到了职责。我们也尽到了职责。”
The coup drew immediate rebukes from abroad. Secretary of State John Kerry said he was “disappointed” by the decision to overthrow the country’s leaders. He urged that civilian government be restored immediately.
此次政变立即遭到其他国家的谴责。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，他对泰国军方推翻该国领导人的决定“感到失望”。克里敦促泰国立即恢复文官政府。
“There is no justification for this military coup,” he said in a statement that also called for the release of detained political leaders. “While we value our long friendship with the Thai people, this act will have negative implications for the U.S.-Thai relationship, especially for our relationship with the Thai military.”
“这次军事政变没有任何正当理由，”他在一项声明中说。该声明还呼吁有关方面释放被扣的政治领袖。“我们珍视与泰国人民的长期友谊，但这种行为将对美泰关系——尤其是我们与泰国军方的关系——造成消极影响。”
A spokesman at the Defense Department said the Pentagon was reviewing military cooperation, including planned joint exercises set to start Monday.
一名美国国防部发言人说，国防部正在重新考虑两国的军事合作，包括原定于周一开始的联合军演。
The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, also appealed for a “prompt return to constitutional, civilian, democratic rule.” And Britain’s foreign secretary and the office of the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, were among those calling for new elections.
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)也呼吁泰国“尽快回归以宪法为依据的文官民主统治”。另一些声音呼吁泰国举行新的选举，其中包括英国外交大臣和欧盟(European Union)外交事务最高官员凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)的办公室。
Six months of debilitating protests in Thailand have centered on whether to hold elections to end the political unrest. Protesters have occupied government buildings, forcing even the prime minister to work elsewhere, and courts and independent government agencies have issued a series of rulings favorable to the protesters, including prohibiting the government from dispersing demonstrators. Some of those rulings have been derided by legal scholars.The antigovernment forces resent Mr. Thaksin not only for his concentration of power but also for intimidation of the media during his time in office and what they call the mixing of his personal business with affairs of state. But many of them have also become skeptical of the notion of one person, one vote, which they say hands too much power to uneducated provincial voters who support Mr. Thaksin.
6个月的抗议活动给泰国带来了极大创伤，其核心问题是是否要通过选举来结束政治动荡。抗议者占领了政府建筑，连总理也被迫前往其他地方办公。法院和独立政府机构发布了一系列有利于抗议者的裁决，其中包括禁止政府驱散示威者。部分裁决遭到了法律学者的嘲笑。反政府势力之所以怨恨他信，不仅是因为他信集中的权力，还因为他信在任期间曾恐吓媒体，以及他们所说的他信把个人事务与国家事务混为一谈的做法。但是，他们中有许多人还开始质疑一人一票的理念，称这会把过多的权力交给乡下未受教育的支持他信的选民。
The opposition proposes a return to democracy, but only after unspecified changes have been carried out.
反对派提议回归民主制度，前提则是做出一些改变，而他们没有说明改变的具体内容。
In December, the governing party dissolved the House of Representatives in an attempt to defuse the crisis and set an election for February. But the opposition Democrat Party, which has not won a national election in two decades, refused to take part. The Constitutional Court later ruled that the election was unconstitutional, one of several rulings against the government by a court perceived by government supporters to be highly political.
去年12月，为了消解危机并确定2月的选举，执政党解散了众议院。但是，20年来从未赢得全国选举的反对党民主党(Democrat Party)拒绝参选。宪法法院(Constitutional Court)随后判定该选举违宪。该法院数次做出不利于政府的裁决，政府支持者认为该法院具有很强的政治性。
The military said Thursday that it would be fair to both sides in the continuing political dispute. But it allowed antigovernment demonstrators to remain in their protest site overnight, even as soldiers in black masks dispersed crowds loyal to Mr. Thaksin and the deposed government.
军方周四表示，在这场仍在持续的政治争端当中，军方将公平地对待争端双方。然而，军方允许反政府示威者通宵留在他们的抗议地点，忠于他信和垮台政府的人群却已被戴着黑色面具的士兵驱散。