KOH SAMET, Thailand — Two rescue operations were set in motion last month when a burst pipeline sent tons of crude oil gushing into the sea near this idyllic resort island. One was cleaning up the spill. The other was defending the image of Thailand’s tourism industry, crucial to the country’s increasingly fragile economy.
泰国沙湄岛——上个月，管道爆裂致使大量原油涌入了这个诗情画意的度假岛屿附近的海域，两项补救措施当即被提上日程。一项是清理泄漏的原油；另一项是保护旅游产业的形象，该产业对于日益脆弱的泰国经济而言至关重要。
Thai officials immediately played down the environmental impact of what was the country’s third-largest oil spill. An executive with the state-owned oil group, PTT, speaking a day after the July 27 accident, told reporters that “everything was restored to normal.” A day later, when a thick black tide of crude filled a bay of this popular resort island, the same executive, Pornthep Butniphant, said the oil would decompose naturally and have “no effect on the environment.”
泰国官员当即开始淡化该国第三大石油泄漏事件对环境的影响。7月27日的事故发生次日，国有石油集团泰国国家石油公司(PTT)的一位经理告诉记者，“一切都恢复了正常。”又过了一天，当粘稠的黑色原油填满这个知名度假岛屿的一个海湾时，还是那位名叫邦特普·布德潘(Pornthep Butniphant)的经理，又表示石油会自然分解，“对环境没有影响。”
But it has taken far more than nature to remove the crude from the shoreline. Military units have spent the past three weeks decontaminating the bay. The soldiers have been joined by dozens of contractors who have been brushing rocks with dish-washing liquid to extract remaining traces of crude. A leading marine biologist said it would be years before marine life returned to normal in the worst-affected area.
但要清除污染海岸线的石油，单靠自然的力量远远不够。军方已经花了3个星期来净化海湾。除了士兵，还有数十家承包商一直在用餐具洗洁精清理附着在岩石上的油污。一位权威海洋生物学家称，在污染最严重的地方，海洋生态要在数年之后才能恢复正常。
Tourism is often seen in Thailand as a buffer when other economic activities slow down. With the economies of Southeast Asia entering an uncertain period, officials appear to be doing everything they can to sustain the record numbers of visitors of recent years.
在泰国的其他经济活动减速之际，旅游业常常被视为缓冲器。随着东南亚经济进入一个不确定的时期， 泰国官员似乎正竭尽所能地维持近年来破纪录的游客数量。
In an effort to convince the public that swimming was safe, the sometimes-theatrical deputy prime minister, Plodprasop Suraswadi, summoned reporters Aug. 9 to watch him swim in Phrao Bay, the area affected worst.
为了让公众相信游泳是安全的，8月9日，有时会显得颇为夸张的副总理博巴索·素拉沙瓦迪(Plodprasop Suraswadi)把记者们召集起来，看他在污染最严重的地区——帕欧湾游泳。
Six days after his publicity stunt, the government’s own pollution control department issued a report saying that the area was too polluted to swim, with potentially cancer-causing hydrocarbons present in the water that were nearly six times the permissible level.
他的宣传噱头上演6天后，政府自身的污染控制司发布的一份报告称，这一地区的污染极为严重，并不适合游泳，水中具有潜在致癌性的烃类含量几乎是容许水平的6倍。
Environmentalists say the government has been too hasty in declaring the area safe and has given misleadingly upbeat assessments about the spill.
环保人士说，政府声称该地区很安全的做法太过草率，误导人们对石油泄漏的影响做出乐观的评估。
Ply Pirom, a coordinator with the environmental group Greenpeace who specializes in toxic substances, said that government officials were being pressured to produce data that showed the water was clean, and that the government was too cozy with PTT, the highly profitable oil group. Thailand’s natural resources and environment minister, Vichet Kasemthongsri, was previously chairman of the board at PTT.
环保组织绿色和平(Greenpeace)协调员、有毒物质专家普莱·毕罗姆(Ply Pirom)称，政府官员迫于压力急于拿出证明水体清洁的数据，而且政府与PTT这个高利润的石油集团之间关系过于密切，泰国自然资源与环境部的部长威侧·甲森通诗(Vichet Kasemthongsri)曾是PTT的董事会主席。
“Everything about this issue is suspicious,” Mr. Ply said. “They are saying the water is clear, but people are worried about what they don’t see.”
“围绕这一问题的所有一切都很可疑，”普莱先生说，“他们说水是干净的，但人们担心是不是有什么问题他们看不到。”
Mr. Plodprasop, the deputy prime minister, has criticized government data, saying other findings of the pollution control department — that mercury in the water greatly exceeded safe levels — were wrong. After his criticism, those findings were rejected by the Thai cabinet, and new tests were ordered. These produced lower mercury readings.
副总理博巴索已经对政府数据提出批评，他说污染控制司的其他调查结论——水中的汞含量大大超出安全水平——是错误的。发表这番言论后，泰国内阁拒绝接受调查结果，勒令重新进行测试。接着的测试得出的汞含量读数低了一些。
Thon Thamrongnawasawat, a marine biologist who has examined the coastline extensively since the spill, said the government had been “too hasty to claim that everything had returned to normal.”
泄漏事故发生以来，海洋生物学家通·探隆那瓦沙瓦(Thon Thamrongnawasawat)对海岸线进行了大范围的检查，他说，政府“声称一切都已恢复正常的做法太草率了。”
“Nature takes time to recover,” he said. “The Thai government has been too optimistic — and is not in sync with reality.”
“自然界的恢复需要时间，”他说，“泰国政府太过乐观——那是不切实际的。”
Piamsak Menasveta, a marine-pollution expert at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok and the chairman of the country’s Independent Commission of Environment and Health, called for an independent verification of the government’s pollution data, particularly of the inconsistent mercury findings. “I am confident that there are some mistakes,” he said in an interview.
曼谷的朱拉隆功大学(Chulalongkorn University)海洋污染专家、泰国环境与健康独立委员会(Independent Commission of Environment and Health)主席别姆萨克·梅纳斯维塔(Piamsak Menasveta)呼吁对政府的污染数据——尤其是关于汞含量的自相矛盾的结论——进行独立验证。“我相信存在一些错误，”他在受访时表示。
Hotels have reported cancellations since the spill, especially among Western Europeans and weekend visitors from Bangkok, which is a two-and-a-half hour drive from the jetty that connects Koh Samet with the mainland.
自从石油泄漏事故发生后，人们纷纷退订岛上的酒店，尤其是西欧人以及从曼谷过来度周末的游客——曼谷离连接沙湄岛与大陆的码头有两个半小时的车程。
But the beaches here are far from empty, perhaps owing to the positive spin the government has put on the accident. A dozen tourists interviewed on the eastern side of the island, which was not directly affected by the spill, said they were unaware it had occurred.
但这里的海滩远非空旷无人，或许是政府对于事故的正面描述起了作用。在没被石油泄漏直接影响的岛屿东部，十几个受访游客表示，他们不知道有事故发生。
“I don’t know anything about this,” said Wang Zhaoyang, a university student from Xian, China, visiting with her family. “If I knew before I came, I might have reconsidered.”
“我对此一无所知，”来自中国西安的大学生、与家人一起度假的王朝阳（音译）说，“如果来之前知道这件事，我可能会重新考虑。”
Chinese and Russian tourists continue to arrive in large groups, tour operators say. “We would be in real trouble without the Chinese,” said Sanya Boonyarit, a speedboat pilot who ferried tourists to the island.
旅游从业者称，大批中国和俄国游客正陆续抵达这里。“假如失去中国游客，我们就真的有麻烦了，”负责把游客运送到岛上的快艇驾驶员桑亚·布恩亚里特(Sanya Boonyarit)说。
The director of Thailand’s pollution control department, Wichean Jungrungrueng, told Thai news outlets Thursday that beaches on the eastern side of the island were safe for swimming but that Phrao Bay still contained levels of total petroleum hydrocarbon, the potentially harmful chemicals found in crude oil, above acceptable limits.
泰国污染控制司负责人威谦·宗龙鲁恩(Wichean Jungrungrueng)周四告诉该国通讯社，在岛屿东侧的海滩游泳是安全的，但帕欧湾的总石油烃（原油内具有潜在危害的化学品）含量水平仍然超出允许范围。
The PTT official charged with the cleanup, Kun Patumraj, an executive vice president for engineering and maintenance, predicted that the affected area would be ready to receive tourists for the high season, which begins in November. He spoke in an interview Thursday on a beach where workers were flushing out small brown globules of oil from nearby rocks, causing a faint smell of crude to waft through the air. The company is carrying out regular tests of sand and water in the area affected by the spill, but Mr. Kun acknowledged a trust deficit. “It’s difficult,” he said. “Sometimes people don’t believe us.”
据PTT负责油污清理事宜的执行副总裁恭·帕杜姆拉吉(Kun Patumraj)预计，被污染的区域将能为11月份开始的旅游旺季作好准备。周四他在一处海滩上接受采访时，工人们正冲洗附近岩石上的褐色小油滴，空气中弥漫着淡淡的原油味。公司在泄漏事故影响到的区域对沙子和水进行定期检测，但恭·帕杜姆拉吉知道这里面存在信任缺失。“是很困难，有时候人们就是不相信我们，”他说。
Ply of Greenpeace said the spill had highlighted a broader and longer-term question for Thailand: the sustainability of pristine beaches so close to industrial zones. Foreign visitors often envision Thailand as a country of rice paddies and beach resorts, but the country is also a regional industrial powerhouse, with the largest car industry in Southeast Asia and thousands of factories making a variety of products like computer hard drives and chemicals.
绿色和平的普莱说，石油泄漏事故已经凸显出一个对泰国而言更广泛、更长期的问题：与工业区靠得太近的原始海滩如何保持可持续性。外国游客常常把泰国设想为一个由稻田和海滩度假村构成的国家，但它同时也是一个地区性的工业强国，拥有东南亚规模最大的汽车产业，以及大量生产计算机硬件和化工原料等多种产品的工厂。