BANGKOK — Ignoring Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s victory in a parliamentary no-confidence vote, protesters in Thailand continued their campaign to shut down government offices, cutting power on Thursday to Bangkok’s police headquarters.
曼谷——泰国抗议者无视总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)在议会不信任案投票中取得的胜利，继续进行使政府机构关门的运动，在周四切断了曼谷警察总部的供电。
But the number of demonstrators appeared to have declined, with the police estimating there to be around 15,000, compared with the tens of thousands who took over the Finance Ministry and surrounded other ministries earlier in the week.
不过，示威者的人数似乎有所减少，警方估计大约为1.5万人，而在本周早些时候，占领财政部(Finance Ministry)并包围其他一些部委的抗议者多达数万人。
“Their numbers are declining gradually each day,” Maj. Gen. Piya Uthayo, a police spokesman, said. Yet there were still large crowds on the streets on Thursday evening, and the police tally did not take into account protests in the provinces, which began Wednesday and continued on Thursday.
“他们的人数在一天天地减少，”警方发言人比耶·乌他少将(Piya Uthay)说。但周四晚上，街上依然有大规模的人群，而警方的估计人数还没有算上各省的抗议活动。各省的抗议始于周三，周四依然在继续。
The parliamentary vote of confidence, which centered on allegations of the mishandling of large government projects, was unsurprising, given the governing party’s dominance in Parliament and the allegiance it commands in large swaths of the country, after years of policies that have sought to curry favor in rural areas.
考虑到执政党在议会中占据着主导地位，并且通过意在讨好农村地区的多年政策赢得了国内大片地区的拥护，围绕大型政府项目处理不善这一指控进行的议会信任投票的结果不足为奇。
In a speech on Thursday, Ms. Yingluck, who is the sister of the former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, invoked Thailand’s long-serving monarch, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, in urging protesters to go home. The king’s birthday, a national holiday, is Dec. 5, and many protesters are ardent royalists. “This is a time when people will jointly honor his majesty, the king,” she said.
英拉是前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的妹妹，她在周四的讲话当中敦促抗议者回家，并且提到了在位时间很长的泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)。国王的生日12月5日是一个全国性的假日，与此同时，许多抗议者都是狂热的保皇派。“这是人们一起向国王陛下致敬的时刻，”她说。
Saying that the government wanted to avoid confrontation, Ms. Yingluck also repeated earlier offers of a dialogue with protesters. Akanat Promphan, a spokesman for the protest leaders, rejected Ms. Yingluck’s offer, calling it insincere.
英拉表示政府希望避免对抗，同时也重申了早些时候的提议，希望同抗议者进行对话。抗议活动领袖的发言人阿卡纳特·奔潘(Akanat Promphan)拒绝了英拉的提议，称其不真诚。
Ms. Yingluck’s speech came after her government easily survived the no-confidence vote, winning 297 to 134.
英拉发表前述讲话之前，她领导的政府以297票对134票的结果轻松挺过了不信任案投票。
Mr. Thaksin, who was prime minister from 2001 to 2006, when he was deposed by the military, remains popular in the heavily populated northeast but is despised by some who are resentful of his political dominance and who say he has used that power to further his business interests. He has also been accused of overshadowing the king, who commands strong loyalty after more than six decades on the throne, especially among older Thais.
他信从2001年开始担任泰国总理，并在2006年遭到军方罢黜，尽管如此，他在人口稠密的东北地区依然广受欢迎。不过，他也受到了部分民众的鄙视，其中一些人怨恨他的政治强势，还有些人说他利用权力推动了自己的商业利益。人们还指责他凌驾于国王之上，后者已在位60多年，赢得了民众尤其是年长民众的坚定拥护。
The protests this week were the largest in the country since 2010, when demonstrations were dispersed by a bloody military crackdown.
本周的抗议是泰国自2010年以来规模最大的抗议，2010年的示威遭到了军方的血腥镇压。
With negative coverage in the news media and dwindling numbers of demonstrators, the protests appeared increasingly to be losing momentum. But with no signs of reconciliation, the future of the protests remained unpredictable and civic leaders continued to warn of possible violence between opposing camps.
新闻媒体的负面报道和逐渐减少的示威人数，让抗议越来越显得声势趋弱。不过，鉴于目前并无和解迹象，抗议的前景依然不可预测，民间领袖也继续警告称，敌对阵营之间有发生暴力行为的可能。
The opposition Democrat Party, which has been ambivalent about whether it will give its backing to the protests, seemed to endorse them more forcefully on Thursday.
周四，一直对是否支持抗议举棋不定的反对党民主党(Democrat Party)似乎对抗议给予了更坚定的支持。
Abhisit Vejjajiva, the leader of the party, told reporters at a news conference that the party shared the goal of overthrowing the government and that Ms. Yingluck had no legitimacy. He urged people to join the protests. “Come out,” he said. “More of you, come out.”
民主党领袖阿比西·维乍集瓦(Abhisit Vejjajiva)在一次新闻发布会上对记者说，该党认同推翻政府的目标，并且认为英拉的执政不具备合法性。他呼吁民众参加抗议。他说，“出来吧，出来更多的人。”
Business leaders, some of whom supported the initial rallies, have shown increased concern and impatience with the seizure of the Finance Ministry and the mobs of protesters crossing the capital with impunity.
财政部遭到围困，抗议者中的暴徒又在首都肆无忌惮地横行，致使商界领袖显得更加担忧、更加不耐烦。部分商业领袖曾对最初的集会活动予以支持。
In comments reported in Thai news media on Thursday, Banthoon Lamsam, the chief executive of Kasikornbank, one of the country’s largest banks, urged politicians in the country to “act like adults.”
根据泰国新闻媒体周四的报道，开泰银行(Kasikornbank)首席执行官伍万通(Banthoon Lamsam)在评论中敦促泰国政客“像成人那样行事”。开泰银行是泰国最大的银行之一。
“Act in a way that shows you love Thailand,” he said, adding that his message was intended “for both sides.”
他说，“要以显示你爱泰国的方式行事，”他还说，他的讯息针对的是“双方”。
“We must have rules where everybody can work together,” he said. “We cannot go on this way, rising up to burn the country.”
他说，“必须得有法规来让所有人达成协作。我们不能再这样下去了，不能一哄而上地毁了这个国家。”