BANGKOK — Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra on Tuesday rejected demands by antigovernment protesters that she step aside before elections she called in response to weeks of demonstrations.
曼谷——泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)周二拒绝了反政府抗议者的要求，称她不会在大选前辞职。此前，为了平息持续数周的示威活动，英拉提出举行大选。
“I cannot retreat any further,” Ms. Yingluck said on national television, her voice shaking. “Please be fair to me.”
英拉在国有电视台用颤抖的声音说，“我不能再让步了。请对我公平一些。”
Under Thai law, Ms. Yingluck and her cabinet must serve until a new government is elected. The vote is scheduled for February.
根据泰国法律，在选举产生新一届政府之前，英拉和她的内阁必须继续履行职责。大选定于明年2月份举行。
The protesters, who have massed tens of thousands of people in Bangkok in their campaign to banish Ms. Yingluck and her powerful family from the country, have demanded that she relinquish her post in favor of a royally appointed caretaker government and have been unmoved by her calling new elections. Their demand has been widely derided by scholars, even those who have long opposed Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister and the patriarch of the country’s most influential political clan.
数万名抗议者已经在曼谷发起了将英拉及其强大家族驱逐出泰国的行动。他们要求英拉下台，让位于王室任命的看守政府，而对于英拉呼吁举行大选的举措，他们并不买账。抗议者们的要求受到了学者的广泛嘲弄，其中甚至包括长期反对英拉及其兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的人士。泰国前总理他信是泰国最具影响力政治家族的掌舵者。
The American State Department issued a statement this week saying that Washington “strongly supports democratic institutions and the democratic process in Thailand.”
美国国务院本周发表声明称，美国政府“坚决支持泰国的民主制度和进程”。
At the heart of the opposition’s protests is a growing skepticism about some of the fundamentals of Thai democracy. The protesters are especially disenchanted with the country’s winner-takes-all parliamentary system that has allowed Mr. Thaksin’s party to dominate for two decades.
反对派抗议的核心原因，是他们对泰国民主制度的一些基本原则抱有日益强烈的质疑。抗议者尤其对泰国赢者通吃的议会制度感到失望，他信的政党曾主宰议会长达20年。
The policies of the governing including universal health care and guaranteed high prices for rice farmers, have cemented strong support in the populous northern and northeastern parts of the country but created great resentment in Bangkok and other areas where the opposition has traditionally been strong.
包括全民医保和为水稻的高昂价格提供担保在内的政策在人口密集的泰国北部及东北部地区为政府赢得了强劲支持，但也引发了曼谷和其他地区的极大不满，而这些地区传统上一直是反对派势力的大本营。
The protest leaders say they have little faith that Ms. Yingluck will not abuse the power of her incumbency in the run-up to the Feb. 2 elections. They cite the appointment of senior civil servants friendly to the government and the tacit sympathy of the police toward the government.
抗议活动的领袖们说，他们不相信英拉在2月2日举行大选之前不会滥用权力。他们的理由包括，英拉任命亲政府人士担任高级公务员职务，以及警方对政府的暗中偏袒。
Yet in recent years two of the most powerful institutions in the country — the courts and the military — have often been hostile toward Mr. Thaksin and his allies. Mr. Thaksin was removed from office in a military coup in 2006 and his party has twice been dissolved by the courts. It re-registered under new names, all with the guidance of Mr. Thaksin, who has been in exile but remains its main inspiration.
然而最近几年，泰国最强大的两个系统——法院和军方——常常对他信及其盟友充满敌意。他信在2006年的一次军事政变中被罢免，他的政党两次被法庭解散。该政党更名之后已重新注册，而这都是在他信的领导下完成的。他信目前仍在流亡中，但依然是该党的精神领袖。
Mr. Thaksin’s party returned to power in 2011 largely because of overwhelming electoral support in the north and northeast.
他信的政党2011年重新执政，这很大程度上是因为北部和东北部地区在大选中的压倒性支持。
The proposal by protesters to bypass the Constitution and set up an unelected council to run the country has been widely interpreted in Thailand as an effort to avoid another stinging loss in the February elections. The opposition Democrat Party, which has not stated whether it would contest the elections, has not won a national election since the 1990s.
在泰国，人们普遍认为，抗议者关于绕过宪法、建立一个非民选委员会来管理泰国的提议，是为了避免在2月的大选中再次出现惨败。在野的民主党(Democrat Party)尚未表明是否将参选。自从上世纪90年代以来，该党还没有在大选中胜出过。
With thousands of protesters still camping out near the prime minister’s office on Tuesday, the way forward is unclear.
周二，仍有数千名抗议者在总理府外露营，未来局势将如何发展仍不明朗。
Although Thailand’s king issued a decree on Monday making the election date official, one of the country’s five election commissioners, Sodsri Satayathum, expressed some doubt.
尽管泰国国王周一已经签署命令，正式确定了大选日期，泰国的选举委员索德思里·萨塔亚塔姆(Sodsri Satayathum)却抱有疑虑。泰国共有五位选举委员。
“The election commission is ready to hold elections, but I’m not sure whether the political groups want to hold it or not,” Ms. Sodsri said. “If the political groups are not ready for an election, there’s no use for the election commission to do it.”
索德思里说，“选举委员会已经准备好举行大选，但是我不确定这些政治团体是不是想要这么做。如果它们不打算这么做，选举委员会举行大选毫无意义。”