BANGKOK — Four people, including a police officer, were killed and at least 64 were injured on Tuesday as antigovernment demonstrators resisted attempts by thousands of riot police officers to dislodge them from the streets surrounding the prime minister’s office. Protesters, who for the past three months have sought to overthrow the government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and have hampered elections, remained defiant as thousands of officers cleared away barricades that protesters had erected on a bridge near key government offices.
曼谷——周二，有包括一名警察在内的4人被打死，并至少有64人受伤，这是在数千防暴警察试图将反政府抗议者从总理府外街道上驱散而遭到抵抗过程中发生的伤亡事件。这些抗议者在过去3个月中一直试图推翻英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)的政府，他们还阻碍了选举，当数千警察清理抗议者设置在政府主要办公场所附近一座桥上的障碍物时，抗议者坚持反抗。
“We insist that we will remain in the seized areas because we don’t want the cabinet and prime minister to return and use their barbaric powers,” said Ekanat Prompan, a former member of Parliament who is a spokesman for the protest movement.
“我们要坚持待在占领区内，因为我们不想让议会和总理回来，行使他们的粗暴权力，”艾卡纳·普隆潘(Ekanat Prompan)这样说，他曾在议会担任议员，现为抗议运动的发言人。
Mr. Ekanat, who spoke on Thai television, said protesters were “peaceful and unarmed” and accused the government of using weapons against them.
艾卡纳在泰国电视台上说，抗议者是“和平的，没有携带武器”。他指责政府使用武器驱散他们。
But a photographer, Jack Kurtz, was among several witnesses who said he saw a man among the protesters carrying an assault weapon. Mr. Kurtz reported on Twitter that protesters had pushed out photographers when gunfire started and instructed them to stop taking photographs.
但摄像师杰克·库尔茨(Jack Kurtz)却说，他和其他几位见证者在抗议者中看到一位拿着进攻性武器的男子。库尔茨在Twitter上发帖称，枪响的时候抗议者把摄影师赶出来，并要求他们停止拍照。
At least 20 of the injured were police officers. One police officer who was shot in the head and previously listed as dead by state media was later reported to be in a critical condition. The Thai news media reported that one of the civilians killed was a protester. The identities of the other victims was not immediately known.
受伤者当中至少有20人是警察。一名警察被枪击中头部，国家媒体此前的报道称他已死亡，但后来改为他伤情危急。泰国新闻媒体报道称，被打死的一名平民是抗议者。其他死亡者的身份还未马上确定。
The government said that a grenade had been used against the police and that tear gas had been fired by the protesters — not by the police. Photos in the Thai news media showed a badly wounded police officer whose legs appeared to have been injured by an explosion. More than 140 protesters were arrested but, in a sign of the weakened powers of the Thai authorities, one protest leader who had been arrested Tuesday and detained in a police vehicle was later freed, reportedly by protesters.
泰国政府称，有人向警察投掷了一枚手榴弹，使用催泪弹的是抗议者，而不是警察。泰国媒体的图片报道显示，一名受重伤警察的腿明显是被炸伤的。有140多名抗议者被捕，但据抗议者称，一名在周二被捕、并被拘留在警车内的抗议领导人随后又被释放，这显示出泰国政府权力的减弱。
Led by a former deputy prime minister, Suthep Thaugsuban, the movement opposing Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister, has been part protest, part insurrection. The protesters have powerful allies in the Thai bureaucracy and elites who resent the dominance of the Shinawatra family in politics. Protesters denounce the “dictatorship of the majority.”
抗议活动的领导人素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)曾任泰国副总理，这次运动针对的是英拉和她的哥哥、前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)，这次抗议运动半是抗议，半是叛乱。抗议者在泰国官僚机构以及对主导政治的西那瓦家族不满的精英阶层中有强大的同盟。抗议者谴责“多数人的专政”。
Both the United States and the European Union have lauded the government for its restraint in handling the protests, which have shut down a number of government offices and blocked major intersections in Bangkok.
美国和欧盟一直对泰国政府在处理抗议事件时的克制态度表示称赞，抗议运动已经导致几座政府办公楼关闭，还阻碍了曼谷市的主要路口。
The number of protesters has waned in recent weeks, but a core of several thousand remain, including many from southern Thailand, the stronghold of the opposition.
抗议者人数在最近几周有所减少，但最核心的数千人仍在坚持，其中很多人来自泰国南部地区，那里是反对派的坚强阵营。
Protesters in southern Thailand were instrumental in blocking the registration of two dozen candidates for the Feb. 2 election, an obstruction that has prevented Parliament from reaching a minimum number of elected representatives. The government is pressing the country’s Election Commission to hold elections in the obstructed districts as well as fresh voting in areas where protesters blocked people from casting votes.
泰国南部地区的抗议者对阻止二十多名候选人登记参加2月2日的选举起了重要作用，这已经导致议会不能达到所需的最低的议员数。目前政府正在给泰国选举委员会(Election Commission)施加压力，要求在选举受到阻碍的地区、以及在抗议者阻止了人们参加投票的地方重新进行选举。
Ms. Yingluck’s opponents are hoping that she is removed from politics as part of an investigation into a botched rice subsidy policy that may cost the government billions of dollars. Thailand’s countercorruption commission on Tuesday announced that Ms. Yingluck must appear later this month to answer allegations that she “refused to perform her duty” by not suspending the policy. If Ms. Yingluck is charged with a crime, she could be impeached. But it is unclear what this means in practical terms since her government resigned in December when she called for elections.
英拉的反对者希望，对一起失败的大米补助政策的调查结果能让她下台，这一政策可能耗费了政府数十亿美元。泰国反腐败委员会周二宣布，英拉必须在本月晚些时候出面对指控做出回答，她被指控“拒绝行使职责”，因为她未能中止该政策的执行。如果英拉被控犯罪，她将面临弹劾。但这种情况在实际上意味着什么尚不清楚，因为她所在的政府已经在去年12月她呼吁进行选举时解散了。