BANGKOK — The cremation of Bhumibol Adulyadej, the revered Thai king who died Thursday, will not take place for at least a year, a top official said Saturday, with the crown prince’s coronation expected to occur some time after that.
曼谷——受人爱戴的泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)上周四去世，一位高级官员周六表示，遗体至少一年之内不会火化，在那之后过一段时间，预计才会举行王子的加冕仪式。
Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, 64, declined to be declared king immediately after his father’s death, saying he wanted to grieve along with the country. Officials have indicated that he will be proclaimed king whenever he is ready, with the coronation to take place later. King Bhumibol named him heir apparent in 1972.
王储哇集拉隆功(Vajiralongkorn)现年64岁，他拒绝在父亲死后立即登基，表示想和举国上下一起悼念先王。官员称，他什么时候准备好了，什么时候就可以宣布为国王，加冕仪式可以之后举行。普密蓬国王是在1972年指定他为继承人的。
For now, Thailand is formally headed by Prem Tinsulanonda, 96, a former prime minister and the head of the powerful Privy Council, who assumed the role of regent pro tempore in the absence of a king. Real power is held by the military junta that overthrew an elected government in 2014.
现在，泰国的官方领导者是96岁的炳·廷素拉暖(Prem Tinsulanonda)，他曾担任泰国总理，现在是影响力强大的枢密院的主席，在没有国王的情况下，由他暂时担当摄政王。真正掌握权力的是军政府，他们在2014年推翻了民选政府。
Bhumibol, who became king in 1946, was the world’s longest-reigning monarch by the time of his death at 88, and he is credited with helping maintain Thailand’s stability and promoting its economic development.
普密蓬1946年成为国王，逝于88岁，是世界上在位时间最长的君主，被认为在维护泰国稳定、促进经济发展中发挥了作用。
A delay in declaring Vajiralongkorn king could give the country time to adjust to the idea. While King Bhumibol was widely beloved, the prince has a reputation as a jet-setting playboy who spends much of his time in Europe.
推迟宣布哇集拉隆功成为国王，可以给泰国一段时间来适应。普密蓬国王虽然广受爱戴，但这位王子却被认为是一个花钱如流水的花花公子，大多数时间都是待在欧洲。
Strict lèse-majesté laws, which prohibit insulting or defaming members of the royal family, have been interpreted broadly by authorities and have long stifled public discussion of the succession in Thailand.
泰国的亵渎王室法严格禁止侮辱或诽谤王室家族的成员，当局对这些法律的解释范围也很宽泛，长期扼杀了泰国对王位继承的公开讨论。
Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-Ngam told Thai reporters on Saturday that plans were being drawn up to construct a crematory for the immolation of the king’s remains. The prince has asked that the cremation be held after a one-year period of mourning, Wissanu said.
泰国副总理威沙努·戈岸(Wissanu Krea-Ngam)上周六对泰国记者说，他们正在计划建造一所火葬场，专门用来火化国王的遗体。威沙努表示，王子要求在为期一年的哀悼之后再举行火葬。
There is no set schedule for the prince’s coronation, but Wissanu indicated that precedent calls for it to take place after the cremation.
王子加冕典礼的日程尚未安排，但威沙努表示，按先例应当是在火葬之后再加冕。
Thousands of mourners, most wearing black, gathered outside the Grand Palace for a second day Saturday to pay their respects to the king. His body was taken there in a ceremonial procession on Friday.
上周六，数以千计的哀悼者连续第二天聚集在曼谷大皇宫外，表达对国王的敬意，其中大多数人身穿黑色服装。在上周五的一个仪式中，国王的遗体被安放那里。