BANGKOK — He is already prime minister of Thailand and the chief of a military junta that seized power in a 2014 coup.
曼谷——他已经是泰国的总理，也是在2014年的政变中夺取政权的军政府首领。
Now, Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha can add another title: aerobics master in chief.
现在，巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)将军可以再增加一个头衔：有氧健身总教练。
Thailand’s military junta has turned an eye toward its civil servants’ behavior — and heart rates — through a new policy that urges them to exercise once a week during working hours.
泰国军政府开始关注公务员的行为——及心率，它颁布了一项新政策，敦促公务员在工作时间每周锻炼一次。
Officials said that the voluntary program, which began Wednesday, was part of a national campaign to model good behavior for children, and that General Prayuth had created it after learning of research that documented widespread physical idleness among Thailand’s youth and older citizens.
多名泰国官员称，自周三开启的这个自愿项目是一项旨在为儿童树立好榜样的全国性运动的一部分。他们表示，巴育将军是在得悉有研究显示泰国的年轻人和老年人普遍懒于运动之后，制定了这项政策。
“Your health will improve and this will be invaluable in the performance of your duties for the nation,” General Prayuth told senior civil servants at an exercise session last week in Bangkok, according to a report by Thailand’s public broadcaster.
“你们的健康会得到改善，这对你们履行肩负的国家职责是极为有用的，”据泰国的公共广播机构报道，巴育在上周于曼谷举行的一次健身活动中对高层公务员讲道。
At an exercise session in Bangkok on Wednesday, four instructors from the Department of Physical Education led about 60 Finance Ministry officials through an aerobics class.
在周三于曼谷举行的这个健身活动上，来自泰国体育教育部(Department of Physical Education)的四名教练，带领约60名财政部官员上了一节有氧运动课。
“Are you excited today?” the lead instructor, Sumalee Homsombat, asked from a stage as dance music thumped from nearby speakers. “We will soon bring entertainment to your body and mind.”
“你们今天感觉兴奋吗？”首席教练素玛立·洪宋巴(Sumalee Homsombat)在一个舞台上问道，附近的音响里传出欢动的舞曲。“我们很快就会让你们感到身心愉悦。”
“Do your best, but don’t be too hard on yourselves,” she added. “It might harm your muscles.”
“尽力而为，但不要对自己太严厉，”她接着讲。“那样可能会伤到肌肉。”
Some of the workers grumbled that it was too hot or that they had not brought workout clothes, said Nuttanun Amaroek, a policy and operations analyst at the ministry.
财政部政策与业务分析师努塔农·阿马罗克(Nuttanun Amaroek)表示，有些工作人员抱怨天气太热，或说自己没带锻炼的衣服。
But Ms. Nuttanun, 35, said the 90-minute workout was a win-win situation for her: She said she had not found much time to exercise after a recent promotion added responsibilities and overtime hours to her workday.
但35岁的努塔农表示，90分钟的锻炼对她来说是一种双赢：她说因为最近升了职，她肩负了更多责任，平日还得加班，没有太多时间可以锻炼。
“This happens during our working hours, so when I exercise here, it’s like I’m working at the same time,” she said, tying her hair back before the class started.
“这个项目是在我们的工作时间进行，所以我在这儿锻炼的时候，就好像同时也在工作，”在课程开始前，她一边说一边把头发扎到脑后。
The military junta seized power from a democratically elected government in a 2014 coup and has since imposed draconian controls over civilian life. It has barred public gatherings of more than five people, for example, and used existing lèse-majesté laws to aggressively prosecute anything — including Facebook posts — that it deems offensive to Thailand’s powerful monarchy.
军政府是在2014年的一场政变中，从一个民主选举的政府手中夺取了政权，之后便对民众的生活进行严苛的控制。比如，它禁止举行超过五人的公开集会活动，利用依然存在的《亵渎王室法》(lèse-majesté laws)竭力对付在它看来会对泰国强大的君主制构成侵犯的任何事物提起诉讼——包括Facebook上的帖子。
After the death in October of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, Thailand’s beloved and long-ruling monarch, the junta initiated a one-year period of national mourning. It also ordered an end to “joyful events” for 30 days and asked people to wear only black and white out of respect.
在泰国长期在位、备受爱戴的君主普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)于今年10月去世后，泰国军政府发起为期一年的全国哀悼行动。它要求30天内不得进行“欢乐的活动”，还要求人们只能穿黑白两色，以示尊重。
Civil servants mainly wore black and white to the workout that General Prayuth hosted on the grounds of his palatial office complex on Wednesday. But the mood was buoyant as the general, clad in white sneakers and a black tracksuit, led officials through aerobics and sepaktakraw, a Southeast Asian net game that loosely resembles volleyball.
在巴育于周三在他宫殿式的办公楼庭园主持的健身活动上，公务员们主要身着黑白两色。但现场的气氛总体是轻快的，巴育穿着白色运动鞋和黑色运动服，带领官员们做有氧运动、打腾球。后者是东南亚一种隔网比赛的球类运动，有点像排球。
“I’ll do a warm-up with you for 10, 15 minutes, and then we’ll take a rest,” he said. “Last time we didn’t rest, so it was quite exhausting.”
“我会跟你们一起做10到15分钟的热身，然后我们就休息一下，”他说。“上次我们没有休息，所以感觉非常累。”