BANGKOK — The Thai authorities on Wednesday issued an arrest warrant describing the person sought in the bombing of a Bangkok shrine this week as a “foreign man,” and said they believed that he had at least two accomplices.
曼谷——本周三，泰国当局发布逮捕令，称在本周曼谷佛坛爆炸事件中放置炸弹的是一名“外国人”，警方认为他至少有两名同伙。
The motive for the bombing and the identity of the man remained unknown on Wednesday. The man’s image was captured by a security camera as he placed a backpack in the spot where minutes later an explosion ripped through the crowded Erawan Shrine, killing 20 people.
截止本周三，爆炸动机及该名男子的身份仍不明朗。该男子的影像被安保摄像头拍下，在他把一个背包放在一处地方数分钟之后，人流如织的四面佛坛发生爆炸，导致20人丧生。
The Thai police released a sketch of the man with features they characterized as Caucasian, Arab or mixed race, saying he was about 20 to 30 years old and 5 feet 7 inches tall.
泰国警方公布了这名男子的画像，其面部特征为白人、阿拉伯人或混血。警方说他在20岁至30岁之间，身高5英尺7英寸（约合1.70米）。
Although a police spokesman raised the possibility that the man was Thai and in disguise, the warrant on charges of premeditated murder was issued for an “unnamed foreign man who appears in the sketch drawing.”
尽管警方发言人说，这名男子也可能是进行过伪装的泰国人，但以预谋谋杀罪名签发的逮捕令针对的是“画像中不知名的外国男子”。
A motorcycle taxi driver said in a phone interview aired by Channel 3, a Thai TV station, that he had picked up a man matching the police description at a taxi stand a quarter of a mile from the shrine after the bomb exploded.
在泰国电视台Channel3播出了一个电话采访中，一名摩的司机表示，炸弹爆炸之后，他在距离四面佛坛四分之一英里的地方载了一名乘客，此人与警方描述相符。
The driver, who gave his name as Kasem, said the man did not speak to him, just walked up and handed him a piece of paper with the words “Lumpini Park” written on it in English. Lumpini Park is a well-populated area in the commercial heart of Bangkok, about two-thirds of a mile from Erawan.
这名司机自称叫卡塞姆(Kasem)，他说该乘客没有和他讲话，只是走上前，递给他一张纸，上面用英文写着“隆比尼公园”(Lumpini Park)。隆比尼公园是曼谷商业中心一个人口稠密的居住区，距离佛坛约三分之二英里。
“He had a conversation on the phone,” Kasem said. “I don’t know what the language is. I don’t know, but it is surely not Thai nor English language.”
“他打了一通电话，”卡塞姆说。“我不知道他用的什么语言。我听不懂，但肯定不是泰语，也不是英语。”
“I didn’t see anyone at where I left him,” he continued. “It was dark. There are some trees and it’s hard to see.”
“他下车的时候，我没有看到任何人，”他说。“那里很黑。有一些树，很难看清楚。”
The Thai police spokesman, Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri, said the security camera footage showed two men who appeared to be accomplices at the shrine, including one who gave up his seat on a bench and then stood nearby as a backpack was being placed on the ground.
泰国警方发言人巴武·塔翁西里中将(Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri)表示，监控录像显示佛坛里有两名男子似乎是他的同谋，背包被放到地上时，其中一名坐在长凳上的男子站了起来，然后走到背包附近。
Although the police said they were investigating a “network,” General Prawut clarified that this meant that the police believed that the perpetrators had gotten assistance with logistics, including obtaining materials to make the explosive device in the backpack. “We are not saying this was an international network,” he said in a telephone interview.
虽然警方称他们正在对一个“网络”开展调查，但巴武中将澄清，这意味着警方认为犯罪者获得了后勤援助，包括获得材料制作背包里的爆炸装置。他接受电话采访时表示，“我们不是说这是一个国际网络。”
The attack on Monday evening struck at the heart of Thailand’s tourist economy. In addition to six Thais, the dead included four Malaysians, four mainland Chinese, two residents of Hong Kong, an Indonesian and a Singaporean. Two other victims remained unidentified on Wednesday, according to the Bangkok Emergency Medical Services. More than 100 people were wounded, and several were listed in critical condition.
周一晚间的袭击事件给泰国旅游经济带来冲击。除了六名泰国人，遇难者还包括四名马来西亚人，四名中国大陆人，两名香港居民，一名印度尼西亚人和一名新加坡人。周三，据曼谷紧急医疗服务中心(Bangkok Emergency Medical Services)透露，另外两名遇难者的身份尚未确认。爆炸事件造成100多人受伤，还有几人情况危急。
The shrine, which sustained only minor damage in the explosion, reopened on Wednesday. Workers filled in the small crater created by the bomb, but the gilded statue of the four-faced Hindu god Brahma at the center of the shrine was missing a large piece of chin.
在爆炸中只受到轻微损坏的佛坛于周三重新对外开放。工人们填补了炸弹炸出的小坑，但佛坛中央的印度教神灵四面佛梵天镀金雕像的下巴掉了一大块。
Thailand’s chief of police, Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung, told reporters that it was too early to say what had driven the perpetrators to plant the bomb.
泰国警察总长宋永·蓬潘孟上将(Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung)告诉记者，现在说明犯罪者安置炸弹的动机还为时过早。
“We haven’t come to a conclusion on the motives of the case yet, whether it is terrorism or political,” he said.
他说，“我们尚未就作案动机得出结论，无论是出于恐怖主义还是政治动机。”
General Somyot also announced a reward of 1 million baht, or about $28,000, for help leading to arrests.
蓬潘孟上将还宣布悬赏100万泰铢（约合18万元人民币）捉拿嫌犯。
The Bangkok Post, in an editorial on Wednesday, called for Thais, who have been deeply divided by politics over the past decade, to unite in trying to find the bombers.
《曼谷邮报》(Bangkok Post)周三发表社论，呼吁泰国人团结一致，设法找到引爆炸弹者。过去十年来，泰国民众因为政治问题产生巨大分歧。