BANGKOK — The week-old campaign of antigovernment protests in Thailand entered a dangerous new phase on Sunday after shootings involving rival political camps left at least three people dead and more than 110 wounded in Bangkok.
曼谷——对立政治阵营在曼谷发生的枪击已导致至少三人死亡、超过110人受伤，周日，泰国已持续一周的反政府抗议活动进入一个危险的新阶段。
Many areas of this sprawling capital remained unaffected by the demonstrations. But the shootings and the increasingly provocative moves by protesters spread fears that unrest could move beyond the pockets of Bangkok where demonstrations — and violence — have raged.
这座占地广阔的首都的大部分地区仍未受到示威的影响。目前的示威活动和暴力行为只在曼谷一些地区爆发，但枪击和抗议者不断加剧的挑衅举动让越来越多人担忧，骚乱可能蔓延到更多地区。
As protesters seeking to take over the prime minister’s office clashed with riot police officers, Bangkok’s largest shopping malls, which normally teem with visitors on weekends, hastily announced that they were closing their doors for the day.
试图占领总理办公室的抗议者和防暴警察发生冲突，在这种情况下，通常在周末总是人头攒动的曼谷最大的一些商场也匆忙宣布当天不再营业。
Nearly 3,000 soldiers arrived in the capital to shore up critical government buildings.
近3000名士兵抵达首都来守卫重要的政府大楼。
The protesters have banded together in a seemingly quixotic attempt to end the influence of Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire tycoon and former prime minister whose political party has captured the allegiance of voters in the Thai countryside, winning every election since 2001. The protesters say they are frustrated with the dominance of Mr. Thaksin and are disillusioned with the current democratic system. They have proposed an alternative to the country’s democracy — an ill-defined people’s council made up of representatives from many professions.
抗议者联合起来，追求一个看似不切实际的目标，试图消除前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的影响力。他信家财万贯，其所在政党获得了泰国农村选民的坚定支持，并赢得了自2001年以来的每次大选。抗议者称，他们对他信的控制十分不满，并对泰国现有的民主体制感到幻灭。他们提出了另一种方案来替代当前泰国的民主体制——一个由来自不同行业的代表组成的未清晰界定的人民委员会。
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, who is Mr. Thaksin’s youngest sister, repeatedly said over the weekend that she was open to discussions with protesters but that she would stand firm.
现任总理、他信的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)在周末时反复表示，她愿意和抗议者对话，但不会改变立场。
“I will remain here,” she told reporters on Saturday, her voice cracking with emotion. “I will not flee anywhere. I may be a woman, but I have the courage to face all possible scenarios.”
“我会留在这里，”周六，英拉对记者说，由于情绪激动，她的嗓音有些嘶哑。“我不会逃去任何地方。是的，我是个女人，但我有勇气面对所有可能出现的局面。”
An attempt by the military to broker reconciliation late Sunday appeared to have failed. Military commanders organized a meeting between Ms. Yingluck and the leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban. But Mr. Suthep said afterward that the meeting ended without any agreement and that there would not be any further meetings “until the people gain victory.”
周日晚些时候，军方试图促成双方和解，但看来已经以失败告终。在军方高层安排下，英拉和抗议领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)会面。但素贴后来表示，两人的会晤并未达成任何协议，而且双方不会再开展进一步会谈，“直到人民取得胜利。”
Foreign embassies in Bangkok issued warnings to their citizens on Sunday, many ratcheting up the relatively mild caution they advised last week.
周日，位于曼谷的外国使领馆向它们的公民发出警告，很多使馆提高了警告级别——上周它们只是发出了相对温和的警示。
Secondary schools, at least seven universities and a number of government offices announced they would close on Monday.
中学和至少7所大学，以及一些政府机关宣布它们会在周一关闭。
Over the past week, protesters have broken down the gates to the army headquarters, cut power to the police headquarters and occupied parts of a large government complex that houses Thailand’s equivalent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Protesters also raided a state-owned telecommunications office, temporarily cutting Internet service to thousands of people on Saturday and shutting down the website of the state carrier, Thai Airways, for several hours.
在过去一周，抗议者冲破了军队司令部的大门，切断了警察总部的供电，并占领了一处庞大政府办公楼群中的部分区域，相当于美国联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)的一个机构就在这里办公。抗议者还袭击了一个国有电信公司的办公室，在周六暂时切断了数千人的网络，并迫使国有航空公司泰航(Thai Airways)的网站关闭了数小时。
On Sunday, protesters massed outside television stations around Bangkok and demanded that the stations, including one owned by the military, switch their signals to a network associated with the protests. Journalists, even the few who have been sympathetic to the protesters, bristled at what they said was an attack on their independence.
周日，抗议者聚集在曼谷各地的电视台外，要求它们将信号切换到和抗议有关的一个电视网络上，其中就包括一家军方所有的电视台。此举惹恼了记者们，就连那些一直同情抗议者的记者也颇为不满，说这是对他们独立的侵犯。
The protesters are a diverse group, ranging from upper-class Thais who have attended rallies in high heels and office attire to rubber farmers from southern Thailand who have long been allied with the opposition Democrat Party, which itself is affiliated with the protests. Also taking part in the protests are students known for brawling, which has compounded tensions.
抗议者群体的组成十分多元，有穿着高跟鞋和职业装来参加抗议的上层阶级的泰国人，也有来自泰国南部的橡胶农民，他们长期以来支持反对派民主党(Democrat Party)，而民主党自身也参与抗议。参加抗议的还有以爱争吵出名的学生，这也加剧了局势的紧张。
Protest leaders appeared to have trouble controlling vocational students on Sunday as they charged against police lines and dismantled barricades made of razor wire.
周日，面对冲向警戒线、拆除铁丝网路障的职校学生，抗议领导者似乎已无法控制局面。
“Vocational students, I beg you, do not provoke the police!” said Ratchayuth Sirayothinpakdee, a protest leader, who barked orders from a megaphone as he and other protesters dodged repeated volleys of tear gas by the police.
“职校学生们，拜托你们，不要去惹警察！”抗议领导者拉差育斯·西拉罗斯帕克迪(Ratchayuth Sirayothinpakdee)一边和其他抗议者躲避着警察发出的一波又一波催泪弹，一边通过扩音器高声下达着命令。
Vocational students played a major and bloody role in a 1976 massacre against students at Bangkok’s Thammasat University, one of the deadliest crackdowns in recent Thai history.
在1976年针对曼谷泰国国立法政大学(Thammasat University)学生的大屠杀中，职校学生扮演了重要且血腥的角色，那是泰国近期历史上最为残酷的镇压之一。
The shootings on Saturday and in the early hours of Sunday occurred near a stadium packed with tens of thousands of government supporters known as red shirts.
周六及周日凌晨的枪击发生在一个体育馆附近，当时体育馆内挤满了数以万计的政府支持者，即所谓的红衫军。
Red shirts traveling to the stadium were attacked by young men who wore the symbols of the antigovernment demonstrators — whistles and arm bands with the national flag. Those attacks led to shootings between both camps.
前往体育馆的红衫军遭到一些年轻人袭击，后者戴着反政府示威者的标志——口哨和印有国旗的袖章。袭击导致双方发生枪战。
The Bangkok Emergency Medical Service Center, a government organization tracking the violence, initially said four people had been killed over the weekend but then revised the number down to three, citing a clerical error.
追踪此次暴力事件的曼谷紧急医疗服务中心(The Bangkok Emergency Medical Service Center)开始称周末共四人死亡，但后来又将死亡人数改为三人，说是当时写错了。
The protests are the biggest since 2010, when the military dispersed tens of thousands of protesters occupying Bangkok’s commercial district, a violent crackdown that left more than 90 people dead.
这次抗议是自2010年以来爆发的最大规模抗议，2010年，军方驱散了占领曼谷商业区数以万计的抗议者，那场血腥镇压造成90多人死亡。