BANGKOK — A Thai court ruled on Wednesday that a major initiative by the ruling party was an attempt to “overthrow” the country’s democratic system, increasing pressure on a beleaguered government already made fragile by weeks of antigovernment protests.
曼谷——泰国一家法院在周三做出裁决，认为执政党发起的一项重要行动是企图“推翻”本国的民主体制。在持续数周的反政府抗议活动面前，千夫所指的政府本就已经处于弱势，这一裁决进一步加大了对它的压力。
The court said that members of the ruling party, which is controlled by the polarizing billionaire former prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, violated the Constitution when they tried to make the entire Senate, the upper house of Parliament, directly elected. Under the current system, about half the senators are directly elected and half appointed by judges and senior civil servants.
法院裁决称，在饱受争议的前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)掌控下，执政党人试图将作为国会上议院的参议院全部改为直接选举。在当前制度下，大约一半的参议员是直接选举的，另一半由法官和高级公务员任命。
The 5-to-4 ruling went to the heart of a protracted struggle in Thailand between Mr. Thaksin’s powerful political party, which has won every election since 2001, and members of the country’s elite, largely based in Bangkok, who are seeking to curtail his dominance.
这个5票赞成、4票反对的裁决触及到了泰国一场旷日持久的争斗的核心，争斗的一方是由他信领导、自2001年起在每一次选举中都获胜的强大政党，另一方是大多生活在曼谷的泰国精英人士，他们希望能削弱他信的强势地位。
When Mr. Thaksin was removed from power in a 2006 coup d'état, the Thai military appointed a committee that rewrote parts of the Constitution, including making the Senate partly appointed. Mr. Thaksin fled the country just before being convicted of abuse of power in 2008 and faces several other corruption-related cases if he returns.
他信在2006年的一次政变中被赶下台，当时泰国军方任命了一个委员会，重新起草了宪法的某些条款，包括在参议院中采取部分任命制的做法。因为他信在2008年即将被判滥用职权罪之际逃离了泰国，一旦回国将面临数宗涉嫌贪腐的指控。
His party was trying to roll back those changes; the new amendment passed both houses of Parliament and was awaiting the signature of King Bhumibol Adulyadej.
他的党派正在努力逆转这些变化；新的修正案已经在国会两院表决通过，等待国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej) 签署生效。
Supot Kaimook, one of the nine judges of the Constitutional Court, said in the court’s decision Wednesday that the rights of the minority were being trampled.
素坡·盖穆克(Supot Kaimook)是宪法法院九名法官之一，他在周三的裁决中说，少数派的权利遭到了践踏。
“Thailand’s democratic system allows the majority to set the standard,” he wrote. “But once it uses its power arbitrarily and suppresses the minority without listening to reason, this makes the majority lose its legitimacy.”
“泰国的民主体制允许由多数派来制定标准，”他写道。“但一旦去独断地使用权力，不由分说地用它去压制少数派，那么这个多数派就失去了合法性。”
He said the system could no longer be called “democratic” when the majority acted this way. “It results in the tyranny of the majority,” he said.
他说，如果多数派如此行事，这个制度就不再能被称为是“民主的”。他宣称，“最终会出现多数暴政。”
To outsiders, the court’s reasoning may appear odd — the direct election of senators would seem to be a move that strengthens democratization. But in a country where mistrust of politicians runs deep and vote buying is common, the court argued that if both houses were fully elected, the “political class” would have “absolute dominance of power.” (Many law experts disagreed, with one saying on television that the court’s decision was bizarre.)
在外界看来，法院的解释可能显得有些古怪——参议员直选看起来应该对民主化是一种加强才对。但这个国家对政治人士有着根深蒂固的不信任，再加上贿选的现象很普遍，法院认为如果国会两院皆为完全直选，“政治阶级”将会得到“完全的统治力”。（很多法学专家对此不以为然，有一位专家在电视上说，法院的裁决是荒诞的。）
The court also ruled 6 to 3 that members of Parliament had violated procedures in passing the amendment.
法院还以6票赞成、3票反对得出裁决，国会议员在通过修正案时存在程序违规情况。
Members of Mr. Thaksin’s party — and a number of less partisan analysts — strongly criticized Wednesday’s decision as a retrograde attempt to mute the voice of the majority of the electorate.
他信所在党的成员——以及一些立场相对中立的分析人士——对周三的裁决表达了强烈的不满，认为这是一种倒退，为的是让多数派在选举中无法发出自己的声音。
“The Constitutional Court decision will make the divisions in our society even more obvious,” said Charupong Ruangsuwan, the interior minister and leader of the ruling party, Pheu Thai.
“宪法法院的裁决会让我们的社会分化愈发明显，”内政部长、执政党为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)领袖乍鲁蓬·琅素旺(Charupong Ruangsuwan)说。
“One side agrees that power derives from the entire people,” he said. “The other side believes that power should derive from the few. This is unacceptable.”
“一边认为权力源自全体人民，”他说。“另一边相信权力应该源自少数人。这是不能接受的。”
Members of Mr. Thaksin’s party have said in recent days that the court has no jurisdiction in the matter and that they will not accept the ruling.
最近几天，他信所在党派的成员说，在这个问题上，该法院没有管辖权，他们不会接受这项裁决。
Thailand’s Constitution allows the Constitutional Court to adjudicate attempts to “overthrow the democratic regime of government with the king as head of state.” But there is a dispute as to whether complaints need to be channeled through the prosecutor general; Wednesday’s case was not.
泰国宪法规定，宪法法院要对“推翻以国王为国家元首的民主政体”的案件做出裁定。但是，这些案件是否需要通过总检察长还存在着争议；周三的案件就没有通过总检察长。
In addition to this legal question, a number of experts said three judges on the Constitutional Court should have recused themselves from the case because they were members of the military-appointed committee that drafted the amendments to the Constitution after the 2006 coup.
除了这个法律问题之外，多位专家还表示，宪法法院的三名法官应该回避这个案件，因为他们是2006年政变后军方任命的宪法修正案起草委员会的成员。
One of the petitions before the court sought the dissolution of Mr. Thaksin’s party, a step courts have taken twice in the past decade. The court rejected this request but did not offer another remedy.
该法院接到了一份要求解散他信政党的诉状，在过去十年中，它已经这么做过两次。法院拒绝了这个要求，但没有提出任何替代措施。
Tension had been building in anticipation of the ruling. Tens of thousands of government supporters, known as red shirts, have massed at a stadium in Bangkok.
对裁决的预期制造了一些紧张气氛。在曼谷的一个体育场，已经集结了数以万计名为“红衫军”的政府支持者。
In another part of Bangkok, politicians linked to the opposition Democrat Party have rallied tens of thousands of protesters against Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Ms. Yingluck is Mr. Thaksin’s sister.
在曼谷的另一个区域，与反对党民主党有联系的政客也组织了数以万计的活动者，抗议现任总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)。英拉是他信的妹妹。
The Democrat Party, which for years lived by a mantra that political disputes should stay inside Parliament, has this year taken to the streets. The party won a victory earlier this month when the government withdrew a wide-ranging amnesty bill that would have eased Mr. Thaksin’s return to Thailand.
多年以来，民主党一直主张政治纷争应该留在国会里解决，但今年他们走上了街头。这个月早些时候，民主党赢得了一次胜利，让政府撤回了大赦法案；该法案覆盖面广泛，本可以为他信重返泰国铺平道路。