BANGKOK — Bangkok’s central commercial district was swarmed by antigovernment protesters on Monday as part of a so-called shutdown of the city, a largely peaceful demonstration that cut off most traffic to Thailand’s costliest real estate and most prestigious addresses.
曼谷——周一，反政府抗议者展开所谓的封锁曼谷行动，占据了曼谷的中心商业区，这场基本上以和平形式开展的示威活动切断了通往泰国最贵房产及最上流地点的交通。
The protest was the boldest move in two months of protests against the government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.
针对泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)的一系列抗议活动已持续两月，此次抗议活动是其中最为大胆的举动。
Protesters frustrated with what they say is a dysfunctional political system have issued some of the most radical political demands seen in Asia in recent years: the scrapping of elections scheduled for February, a hiatus for democracy and the formation of an alternative form of government involving an unelected “people’s council” that would replace Parliament.
抗议者不满于他们所称的运转不灵的政治体系，提出了近几年来亚洲地区最激进的一些政治要求：取消原定于2月份进行的选举，中断民主制度，成立另一种形式的政府，用不由选举产生的“人民委员会”来代替议会。
“We need to shut the capital to tell people that this government has lost its legitimacy,” said Uracha Trairat, a businessman who flew from the southern island of Phuket to join the protests. “The government is now destroying itself.”
“我们需要封锁首都，好让人们知道，这个政府已经失去了合法性，”从南部岛屿普吉岛飞到曼谷参加抗议活动的商人乌尔差·代拉(Uracha Trairat)说。“政府正在自我毁灭。”
The protest had echoes of a protracted demonstration in 2010 that closed off some of the same areas of Bangkok and ended with a military crackdown that left dozens of people dead.
此次抗议活动让人想起了2010年的长时间示威活动，当时示威人群在曼谷封锁了一些同样的区域，最终遭到军事镇压，数十人因此丧生。
There were no reports of violence from the protest areas by late Monday afternoon, and some observers said the demonstration resembled a car-free festival more than a serious threat to the government.
截至周一傍晚，尚无报告称抗议活动区域出现暴力，一些观察人士表示，示威活动更像是一场没有花车的庆祝活动，不像是针对政府的严重威胁。
But a radical and aggressive faction of the protesters threatened to take over the country’s stock exchange and air traffic control system if Ms. Yingluck’s government did not step down by Wednesday.
但一个激进的抗议者派别威胁称，如果英拉政府到周三还没有下台，他们将接管泰国的股票交易及空中交通管制系统。
In making that threat, one of the leaders of the faction, Nitithorn Lamlua, said that protest leaders had already been charged by the government with rebellion, so they “could not lose.”
发出威胁之时，激进派领导人尼蒂通·拉姆洛(Nitithorn Lamlua)表示，抗议活动领导人已经受到政府的叛乱指控，因此他们“不能输”。
“We will fight until we win,” he said.
他说，“我们将一直战斗，直到我们取得胜利。”
The International Crisis Group, a research organization, said on Monday that the “scope for peaceful resolution is narrowing,” and that the campaign to stop elections “raises prospects of widespread political violence” and could provoke a military coup.
周一，研究机构国际危机组织(International Crisis Group)表示，“和平解决问题的余地不断减少”，阻止选举的行动“加大了出现大范围政治暴力活动的可能性”，还可能引发军事政变。
“Competing Thai elites — with mass backing — disagree fundamentally about how political power should be acquired and exercised,” the group said.
该组织表示，“在群众支持下相互对抗的泰国精英在获得及行使政治权力的方式问题上存在根本分歧。”
During two months of demonstrations on Bangkok’s streets, protesters have raided the Finance Ministry and other key government offices, temporarily cut power to Police Headquarters and blocked the registration of candidates for the election.
在曼谷持续两个月的街头示威活动中，抗议者袭击了财政部及其他一些关键政府机构，还曾暂时切断警察总部(Police Headquarters)的电源，阻碍选举候选人的登记活动。
Chadchart Sittipunt, the transport minister, asked protesters to “think of the country” and urged them not to shut down the air traffic control office.
泰国交通运输部长斯提潘(Chadchart Sittipunt)请求抗议者“为国家着想”，力劝他们不要关闭空中交通管制机构。
“This is going beyond the expression of opinion in a democratic way,” he said.
他说，“这已经超出了以民主途径表达诉求的范围。”
Ms. Yingluck, who, with her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister and business tycoon living in self-imposed exile, is the target of the protests, has insisted for weeks that there is no legal avenue for postponing the elections scheduled for Feb. 2.
英拉及其兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)是抗议者的目标，过去几周，英拉一直坚称，没有哪条法律途径可用于推迟原定于2月2日举行的选举。曾任泰国总理的他信是一名商业大亨，目前过着自我流放的生活。
Highlighting the split in Thailand between Bangkok and the northern parts of the country, government supporters in many provincial capitals held demonstrations on Monday in favor of the elections, holding up signs reading “Respect My Vote.”
在泰国的许多省会城市，政府的支持者于周一举行了支持选举的示威，示威者手举标语，上面写着“尊重我的投票”。此类示威突显了曼谷和泰国北部地区之间的立场分歧。
Yet one of Ms. Yingluck’s aides, Suranand Vejjajiva, was quoted on Monday by the Thai news media as saying that the government would invite “various groups,” including the protest leaders, to discuss a plea by the Election Commission to delay the voting. He called it a “sincere invitation.”
不过，据泰国新闻媒体周一报道，英拉的助手之一素拉南达·维乍集瓦(Suranand Vejjajiva)表示，政府会邀请包括抗议领袖在内的“各个团体”来讨论选举委员会提交的延期投票申请。他表示，这是“一份诚挚的邀请”。
Many areas of the vast capital were unaffected by the protests. But many schools, universities, offices and shops selling gold were closed on Monday.
泰国首都地域辽阔，许多地区都没有受到抗议活动的影响。不过本周一，有多所学校、大学、办公楼和金店都处于关闭状态。
And in the Ratchaprasong neighborhood, which during normal times is among the most popular areas for visitors, bewildered tourists were seen trying to navigate the barriers erected by protesters.
在拉差帕颂街区，人们看见困惑的游客试图绕过抗议者设置的障碍。该街区平常是最受游客欢迎的街区之一。
In an apparent attempt to reassure tourists during the country’s high season, the Tourism Authority of Thailand issued a statement on Monday saying that it was “business as usual in Thailand,” and pointed out that hotels, restaurants, spas, shopping malls and hospitals, among other places, were “operating as per normal,” with only “some changes in the opening hours.”
泰国旅游局(Tourism Authority of Thailand)于周一发表了一则声明，表示“泰国一切如常”，并指出酒店、餐厅、水疗中心、购物中心和医院等场所都在“照常营业”，只是“营业的时间有一些改变”。目前正值泰国的旅游旺季，此举显然意在打消游客的顾虑。
On what was a clear and unusually crisp day, protesters cheered, blew whistles and marched down streets largely devoid of vehicles. Among the most popular pictures posted on social media sites on Monday were images of empty boulevards that on a normal day would be choked with traffic.
这是一个晴朗的日子，干爽得异乎寻常，抗议者兴高采烈地吹着口哨，在几乎没有车辆的街道上行进。本周一，社交媒体网站上最具人气的一些照片显示了空旷的林荫大道，这些街道平常都是一幅车水马龙的景象。
Among the protesters Monday was Krit Satta, a computer saleswoman and cycling enthusiast who toured the business district on her bicycle.
吉·萨塔(Krit Satta)参加了周一的抗议，她是一名电脑销售员，也是喜欢骑车逛商业区的自行车运动狂热分子。
“Bangkok has never been so empty,” she said. “Normally, you have to wait until midnight to ride free of traffic jams.”
她说，“曼谷从未如此空旷。一般来说，你必须要等到半夜，才能不受拥堵地自由骑行。”
She compared the protests on Monday to the shutdown of the United States government last year.
她把周一的抗议和去年的美国政府停摆相提并论。
“We are just freezing the government from functioning,” she said. “I would like to tell the world that there’s no violence here — it’s more like a festival.”
她说，“我们只是让政府停工而已。我想告诉全世界，这里没有暴力——这场运动更像是一个节日。”