BANGKOK — Describing the movement to overthrow the Thai government as peaceful, a Bangkok civil court on Wednesday sharply curtailed the powers of the authorities and barred them from dispersing protesters, a decision that a prominent legal analyst described as “one step closer to a full-scale judicial coup.”
曼谷——周三，曼谷的一家民事法庭认定，意在推翻泰国政府的示威运动是和平的。法庭极大地制约了当局的权力，并且禁止当局驱散示威者。一位著名的法律分析人士形容，这一裁决“距离全面的司法政变又走近了一步”。
The decision came one day after violent clashes between the police and protesters that left five people dead, including a police officer. After a series of confrontations in recent weeks and the wide circulation of photographs of heavily armed men among the protesters, the protest movement increasingly resembles an armed insurrection against the government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.
上述裁决做出一天前，警方和示威者发生暴力冲突，导致五人死亡，包括一名警察。最近几周发生了一系列对抗，而且一些广为流传的照片显示，示威者当中有全副武装的男子，这场抗议运动越来越像一场针对总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)领导政府的武装暴乱。
Samdin Lertbutr, a protest leader, said Wednesday on Thai television that “very professional” men with weapons were assisting protesters and “making the police retreat.”
抗议活动的一名领导人杉丁·勒布特(Samdin Lertbutr)周三在泰国的电视节目中接受采访时说，有“非常专业”的男子携带武器协助示威者，“逼迫警察撤退”。
The court, however, found that the protests were being carried out “peacefully without weapons,” and ordered that the demonstrators’ rights and freedoms “be protected according to the Constitution.” The decision bars the government from using force or weapons to crack down on the demonstrators.
然而法庭却认定抗议活动是以“和平方式进行的，没有使用武器”，还要求“根据宪法保护”示威者的权利和自由。法庭的裁决禁止政府使用武力或武器镇压示威者。
On Tuesday, protesters attacked the police with a grenade, an action that protest leaders initially denied but acknowledged when footage of the detonation circulated on the Internet.
周二，示威者使用手榴弹袭击警察，示威的领导者最初否认了这一举动，但爆炸的视频开始在互联网上传播后，又转而承认。
The protesters, who blocked elections in Bangkok and southern Thailand this month, are seeking a suspension of democratic procedures and the creation of an unelected “people’s council” that would replace Parliament. They resent the dominance of Ms. Yingluck, whose political movement has won every election since 2001.
示威者本月成功阻挠了曼谷及泰国南部的选举，他们的诉求是暂停民主程序，建立一个不经选举产生的“人民委员会”取代议会。他们憎恶英拉的主导地位，从2001年开始，她的政治运动就赢得了每一场选举。
There is a long tradition in Thailand of overthrowing governments, often through bloodless coups or what are termed “judicial coups,” in which a leader is removed by the courts. A prime minister in 2008 who fell out with the Bangkok establishment was removed because he received income from a televised cooking program.
泰国有推翻政府的悠久传统，途径常常是不流血的军事政变，或者被称为“司法政变”的行动，后者指领导人物被法庭拉下马。2008年，一位与曼谷的权力阶层产生冲突的总理因为从一档电视烹饪节目收取报酬而被迫去职。
But the current political crisis is far more intractable than those of previous years, and involves a power struggle by two formidable political movements. The protesters are backed by the elites in Bangkok, while the governing party’s power is rooted in a rural-based political movement founded by Ms. Yingluck’s brother Thaksin Shinawatra, a tycoon now in self-exile who was ousted by the military in a 2006 coup.
然而当前的政治危机远比过去几年发生的更加棘手，涉及两股力量强大的政治运动之间开展的权力斗争。示威者受到了曼谷精英阶层的支持，而执政党的力量则来自于英拉的哥哥他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)建立的一个立足于农村的政治运动。商界大亨他信在2006年的一场政变中被军方推翻，现在处在自我流亡当中。
The leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban, who has been charged with murder for ordering the use of live ammunition against protests when he was deputy prime minister in 2010, describes an all-or-nothing battle against the Shinawatra family.
示威活动的领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)在2010年担任副总理时，曾因下令使用实弹镇压示威者，而被控谋杀。素贴表示，要对西那瓦家族发动一场绝不妥协的战斗。
The court on Wednesday allowed the government to maintain a state of emergency that it declared last month, but at the same time barred the authorities from searching or dismantling the areas where protesters are encamped at major intersections in Bangkok. The court also said the protesters had the right to block roads. The government can appeal the decision, but has not indicated whether it will do so.
周三，法庭允许政府继续维持上个月宣布的紧急状态，但同时禁止官方在曼谷交通要道示威者扎营的区域，进行搜查或驱散人群。法庭还裁定示威者有权利封锁道路，政府可以就这项裁定提出上诉，但尚未表示是否会上诉。
Sunai Phasuk, a researcher in Thailand with Human Rights Watch, wrote on Twitter that emergency rule was “rendered meaningless” by the court’s decision.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)驻泰国的研究员苏奈·帕苏克(Sunai Phasuk)在Twitter上写道，法庭的裁决让紧急状态变得“毫无意义”。
Sawat Charoenpol, a lawyer representing the protesters, described the ruling as a victory for the protest movement and said the government was “unable to do anything about the protesters.”
示威者的代理律师沙瓦·查伦坡(Sawat Charoenpol)称，这项判决是示威运动的一个胜利，还说政府“对示威者无可奈何”。
Verapat Pariyawong, a Harvard-trained lawyer and prominent commentator, said Wednesday’s decision allowed protesters to claim “pseudolegitimacy to overthrow the government.”
曾就读于哈佛大学的律师及著名评论员威拉帕·帕里亚旺(Verapat Pariyawong)说，周三的裁决让示威者取得了一种“不应有的正当性”，借以“推翻政府”。
Mr. Verapat said the court had relied on an earlier determination by the country’s Constitutional Court, which ruled that the protests were peaceful. But he said it was “legally illogical for the civil court to disregard the current situation,” a reference to the violence of recent days.
威拉帕说，法庭依据了泰国宪法法院较早前做出的一项判决，那份判决认定示威者的行为是和平的。但他谈到最近几天的暴力事件时说，“民事法庭无视目前的情况，这不符合法律逻辑。”
The larger picture for Ms. Yingluck’s government appears to be a slow strangulation of her power. The country’s anticorruption commission has prioritized a case against her relating to a costly and deeply unpopular rice subsidy policy. Legal analysts say the case could end with her being barred from politics.
从大处着眼，英拉政府面临的似乎是，她的权力正在慢慢削弱。泰国的反腐败委员会已经开始着重处理一宗针对英拉的案件，该案涉及一项耗资昂贵但极不受欢迎的大米补贴政策。法律分析人士说，这宗案件最终可能导致英拉不能再参政。
And the country’s election commission has been slow — critics says obstructionist — in completing plans for voting in areas blocked by protesters during the Feb. 2 general elections. Until the elections are completed, Ms. Yingluck leads a caretaker government that is tightly circumscribed by law.
在针对示威者占领区域制定2月2日大选的投票方案时，泰国选举委员的动作也一直十分迟缓，批评人士称他们是在蓄意阻挠。选举结束之前，英拉领导的都只是看守政府，权威受到法律的严格约束。
“The noose is tightening around Yingluck, and her situation appears untenable,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “It’s now a question of what comes afterwards. If it’s inclusive and agreeable to the main protagonists, Thailand may be able to muddle its way through. But if it’s not, it will be a recipe for more mayhem.”
“英拉身上的绳索越收越紧，她的地位似乎并不稳固，”曼谷朱拉隆功大学(Chulalongkorn University)安全和国际问题研究中心(Institute of Security and International Studies)主任提蒂南·蓬苏迪拉克(Thitinan Pongsudhirak)说。“现在的问题在于随后得出的方案。如果包容性很强，主要的参与者都能认同，那么泰国或许可以将就着应付过去，但如果不能，就会制造更大的混乱。”