BANGKOK — Thailand’s chief of police said Sunday that those responsible for the deadly attack on a Bangkok shrine last week “may have already fled” the country, apparently trying to lower public expectations that the main person being sought would be caught anytime soon.
曼谷——泰国警察总长在周日表示，对上周发生在曼谷一尊佛像附近的流血袭击事件负责的嫌疑人“可能已经逃离了”泰国。他的这一表态明显是试图降低公众对马上将通缉的主犯抓获的期待。
“If the police are lucky, we may be able to arrest them,” Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung, the national police chief, told reporters.
“如果警方幸运的话，我们也许能够逮到他们，”国家警察总长宋永·蓬潘孟上将(Somyot Poompanmoung)对记者说。
Hamstrung by a paucity of evidence, the police have stumbled over false leads and complained that they lacked the equipment and technology to gain sufficient insights from the grainy security footage and other images they have gathered showing the man’s movements before and after the explosion.
受限于证据不足，警察受到虚假线索的牵绊，还抱怨缺乏设备和技术去充分了解搜集到的模糊的安全录像和其他图像。这些记录显示了那名男子在爆炸前后的举动。
The blast last Monday at the Erawan Shrine left at least 20 dead and created panic in Bangkok’s main shopping district. More than a hundred people were injured, including some who remain in critical condition.
上周一发生在四面佛的爆炸造成至少20人死亡，在曼谷的主购物区制造了恐慌。超过100人受伤，其中一些仍旧伤情严重。
After saying that they were seeking three additional people seen in security footage as suspects, the police concluded they had no role in the bombing. Two were men who had stood near another man as he placed a backpack believed to contain the bomb at the shrine.
警方曾表示正在寻找出现在安全录像中的另外三名嫌疑人，后来又断定他们并未参与爆炸案。当一名男子将据信装着炸弹的背包放在佛像附近时，其中两名男子正站在他附近。
Sriwara Rangsipramanakul, the commissioner of police, said the authorities had conducted a huge operation, searching 3,000 locales, covering everything from condominiums to seedy guesthouses.
警察局长先瓦拉·朗西帕曼那坤(Sriwara Rangsipramanakul)称，官方展开了大规模行动，搜查3000个地点，从共管公寓到脏乱的旅店无一遗漏。
“We haven’t found any suspects with connection with the bombing at all,” he said.
“我们还没有找到与爆炸有关的任何可疑人员，”他说。
The Thai police say the motive for the attack remains unknown. They have left all possibilities open but played down the possibility of an international terrorist network, which they say is unlikely.
泰国警方表示，此次袭击的动机仍不明朗。他们认为任何可能性都存在，但是淡化了国际恐怖网络作案的可能性——他们说这种几率很低。
The police are also investigating whether there is a link to an explosion that occurred on Tuesday, the day after the shrine blast, at a river pier in Bangkok. That blast caused no injuries. Security footage showed a man standing on a footbridge pushing a bag into the canal where the explosion occurred.
警方也在调查此事与周二发生在曼谷一座河边码头的爆炸是否有关联。后者发生在四面佛被炸的第二天，没有造成人员受伤。安全录像显示，一名男子站在步行桥上将一个袋子推入了爆炸发生的水道。
A sketch of the man being sought in Monday’s explosion released by the Thai police has been distributed to airports and border posts. It has also been widely disseminated on the Internet and sent to Interpol, the international police agency.
泰国警方发布了一幅周一爆炸案被通缉男子的素描，这幅素描被分发到机场和边境岗哨。它在互联网上也广为传播，并已传送至国际刑警组织(Interpol)。
Thai news media and users of social media have criticized top officials of the military junta that runs Thailand for missteps, contradictions and quirks.
泰国新闻媒体和社交媒体用户批评军政府的高层官员管理失职，让泰国陷入了矛盾和荒唐之中。
Although the arrest warrant lists a “foreign man” as the main suspect, police officials said they were not ruling out that the man wore a disguise and was Thai.
尽管通缉令将一名“外国男子”列为主要嫌疑人，但警方官员表示，不排除该男子是由泰国人伪装的可能性。
Thailand’s prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, has recommended that investigators watch “Blue Bloods,” a television police drama set in New York. “It can teach us ideas on procedure and achieving solutions,” he said. “Our country may not be able to follow it completely, but it could raise our awareness.”
泰国总理巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)推荐调查人员观看剧情发生在纽约的警务剧《蓝血》(Blue Bloods)。“它能教给我们一些关于程序及解决问题的理念，”他说。“我们国家可能无法完全按照这个来，但它可以提高我们的意识。”
On Sunday, a police spokesman expressed frustration at what he said were constant calls for progress in the investigation.
周日，警方的一名发言人表达了对外界持续呼吁调查取得进展的不满。
Addressing reporters, Prawut Thavornsiri, the spokesman, said the police were exhausted.
发言人帕乌特·塔翁西里(Prawut Thavornsiri)对记者表示，警方已经倾尽全力。