BANGKOK — Questions intensified about the intentions of Thailand’s military on Wednesday, a day after the head of the army declared martial law and curbed media freedoms but allowed protesters to continue their demonstrations — which they did with enthusiasm.
曼谷——周三，人们对泰国军方的意图愈加疑惑。一天前，军方首脑宣布实行戒严并遏制媒体自由，但却允许抗议者继续进行抗议活动，抗议者也热火朝天地照办了。
It was at least the 12th time the military has intervened in Thailand since the country switched from an absolute monarchy to a democracy eight decades ago. It was the first military intervention in Thailand’s latest political convulsions, which began six months ago and have paralyzed the government.
80年前，泰国从君主专制国家转变为民主国家。这至少是泰国军方自那时以来第12次干政。这也是军方首次介入泰国最近的政治动荡，动荡始于六个月之前，已经使政府陷入瘫痪。
In the first few hours, nobody knew exactly what to make of the declaration, which gives the military broad powers to disperse and arrest protesters, censor the news media and control many government functions.
最初几个小时，谁也不知道这份声明该如何理解。军方借由这份声明获得了驱散和逮捕抗议者、审查媒体及掌控诸多政府职能的广泛权力。
Military vehicles and armed soldiers took positions on Bangkok streets, some television stations closed, and the military issued a warning against provocative comments on social media.
军车和全副武装的士兵纷纷在曼谷街头就位，一些电视台关了门，军方还发布了一份警告，要求人们不得在社交媒体上发表挑衅性言论。
Yet, in many neighborhoods, not a soldier could be seen. Workplaces and schools remained open, people shopped, the stock market closed the day 1 percent lower and traffic backed up as it would have on any other workday. Tourists could be seen snapping photographs with smiling soldiers.
然而，许多社区连一个士兵也看不见。工作单位和学校仍处于开放状态，人们仍在购物，股市收盘价只跌了1%，交通也像正常工作日一样拥堵。游客还在与面带微笑的士兵合影。
Thousands of Thais determined to show their opposition toward the governing party assembled along a broad avenue, dancing and cheering in the oppressive heat.
数以千计的泰国人决意表达对执政党的不满，他们聚集在一条宽阔的大道上，在袭人的热浪中舞蹈和欢呼。
“Please protest with joy!” said Sathit Wongnongtoey, a former member of Parliament whose voice boomed over them. “Our protest will get even more intense — 24 hours a day!”
“快乐地抗议吧！”前议会成员沙迪·翁农德伊人(Sathit Wongnongtoey)告诉人群，声音非常洪亮。“我们的抗议会越来越激烈——每天24小时！”
Pro-government demonstrators also continued their rallies on the outskirts of Bangkok.
支持政府的示威者也在曼谷市郊继续集会。
Thitinan Pongsudhirak, one of the foremost experts on Thai politics, said, “It’s technically martial law, but it doesn’t feel like it.”
泰国政治问题权威专家提蒂南·蓬苏迪拉克(Thitinan Pongsudhirak)说，“字面上说这是戒严，感觉却不像。”
Yet the business-as-usual scenes on the streets of Bangkok masked what analysts described as a high-stakes intervention in Thai politics by a military that has a long, checkered past of overthrowing governments and ruling despotically.
然而，一切如常的曼谷街景掩盖了军方对泰国政治的干预，分析人士说这种干预风险很大，因为泰国军方有推翻政府及实施专制统治的漫长而曲折的历史。
Martial law was imposed without any notification to the caretaker government, according to Chaturon Chaisang, the education minister, who questioned the military’s motives.
质疑军方动机的泰国教育部长乍都隆·柴桑(Chaturon Chaisang)表示，实施戒严以前，军方并没有通知临时政府。
Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, the army chief, a brash and outspoken career soldier who for months had publicly expressed reluctance to become involved in the political crisis, cast himself on Tuesday as a mediator who would summon all parties and forge an agreement. “That’s why I declared martial law; otherwise, no one would listen,” he said.
陆军总司令巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)是一名性急敢言的职业军人，数月以来一直公开表示不愿卷入这场政治危机，但他在周二担起了调停者的角色，准备召集各方，敦促各方达成协议。他说，“这就是我宣布戒严的原因；否则没人会听。”
General Prayuth denied that the action was a military coup. But he was evasive about how long martial law would be in force. “Don’t ask me how long this will last,” he said. “No one wants to implement it for too long. I want all sides to seek a solution quickly.”
巴育称这一行动并非军事政变，但却对这次戒严的持续时间闪烁其词。“不要问我这种局面将持续多久，”他说。“没人愿意实施太久的戒严。我希望各方快速找到解决方案。”
He deflected reporters’ questions about whether he would answer to the caretaker government.
记者问他是否会听命于临时政府，他没有回答。
General Prayuth faces a daunting challenge: to cajole some form of reconciliation in a society split between the old-money elites in Bangkok who are backing the antigovernment demonstrators and a populist governing party with a power base in the provinces, led by a nouveau riche tycoon, Thaksin Shinawatra.
巴育面临着一项艰巨的挑战，需要在这个分裂的社会促成某种和解，分裂的一方是曼谷的传统富豪精英，他们支持反政府示威者，另一方是权力基础位于外省的民粹主义执政党，该党由暴发户大亨他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)领导。
The last military coup was in 2006, and it overthrew the same political movement that dominates the country today. But analysts say the current impasse is more intractable than anything the military has taken on in the past.
泰国的上一次军事政变发生在2006年，那次政变推翻的正是如今主导泰国的政治运动。但分析人士称，当前的僵局比军方过去接管的所有事态都要棘手。
Thailand, a leading economy of Southeast Asia, has been without a functioning government since December. And with the eyes of the world watching, the country is so gravely divided that it has lost the ability to govern itself.
作为东南亚的头号经济体，泰国自去年12月以来一直没有一个正常运转的政府。在全世界的关注之下，该国出现了十分严重的分歧，以至于无力管理自己。
“The army is taking a big risk here,” Mr. Thitinan said. “They will have to bang heads to make a compromise happen. They will be pulled in different directions. If they are seen as sliding toward one side, things could turn nasty very quickly.”
“军方此举要冒很大的风险，”提蒂南说，“为了达成妥协，他们将不得不给各方一点教训。各方都会把他们往不同的方向拽。如果人们觉得他们偏向某一方，事态可能会很快恶化。”
Foreign reaction was largely critical. Human Rights Watch called it a “de facto coup.”
外国的反应基本上是批评。人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)称此举为“事实上的政变”。
“The military has pulled a 100-year-old law off the shelf that makes the civilian administration subordinate to the military, effectively rendering the executive, legislative and judicial branches powerless,” Brad Adams, the director of the organization’s Asia division, said in a statement.
“军方启用了一项100年前的陈旧法律，这项法律让文官政府从属于军方，实际上是让行政、立法和司法部门丧失权力，”人权观察组织亚洲区主任布拉德·亚当斯(Brad Adams)在一份声明中表示。
The Thai military sought to convince the public that the army had acted in the country’s best interests. A message Tuesday morning on a military-controlled television station read: “We urge people not to panic. Please carry on your daily activities as usual. The imposition of martial law is not a coup d’état.”
泰国军方力图让公众相信，军方是依照国家的最大利益行事的。周二上午，军方控制的一家电视台发布了一条讯息：“我们呼吁民众不要恐慌。请照常进行你们的日常活动。实行戒严不是政变。”
It remained unclear late Tuesday which side would benefit from the military’s intervention.
截止周二晚间，尚不清楚哪一方会从军方的介入中获益。
If the military decides to force an election — and ensures that the opposition does not obstruct it — the governing party would probably be seen as the ultimate beneficiary. But if the military postpones elections, it will strengthen the hand of the Bangkok establishment.
如果军方决定强制举行选举——并确保反对派无法破坏选举——执政党多半会被视为最终的受益者。但如果军方推迟选举，便会增强曼谷权贵的力量。
The United States urged respect for “democratic principles” in a statement released hours after the announcement of martial law. “We expect the Army to honor its commitment to make this a temporary action to prevent violence, and to not undermine democratic institutions,” the statement said.
泰国宣布戒严几小时后，美国发表了一份声明，敦促各方尊重“民主原则”。“我们期望军方信守承诺，使戒严成为旨在防止暴力的临时行动，不破坏民主制度，”声明称。