BANGKOK — Former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and leading members of Thailand’s deposed government surrendered to the military on Friday after being summoned by the generals now leading the country.
曼谷——被目前领导泰国的军事将领传唤后，前总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)及被废黜政府的主要官员于周五向军方屈服。
The political leaders were detained, the military said, without providing information about their whereabouts. Ms. Yingluck was one of about 150 people sent for by the junta, which seized power in a coup on Thursday.
军方表示扣留了相关政治领导人，但并未透露有关他们下落的信息。在周四的政变中夺取了权力的军政府传唤了大约150人，英拉是其中之一。
Even as military leaders tried to tighten their hold on the country, there were early signs of defiance toward Thailand’s second coup in a decade.
就在军方领导人尝试加强对国家控制的同时，一些早期迹象表明，对此番十年里的第二次政变，民众有所抵触。
Small groups of people opposed to the coup gathered around Bangkok and a northern city, Chiang Mai, displaying signs critical of the military. Some symbolically taped their mouths shut.
小规模反对政变的人群聚集在曼谷和北部城市清迈，举出批评军方的标语。一些人象征性地用胶带将自己的嘴巴封上。
Despite a ban by the junta on gatherings of more than five people, hundreds of protesters assembled in Bangkok’s main shopping district and confronted a line of heavily armed soldiers. “Get out, dictators!” chanted the crowd, which had been organized through Facebook.
尽管军政府禁止举行五人以上的集会活动，仍有数百名抗议者聚集在曼谷主要的购物区，与一排全副武装的军人对峙。“滚出去，独裁者！”通过Facebook组织起来的人群反复高喊。
One man shouted, “The anti-coup protests have begun.”
一名男子喊道，“反对政变的抗议已经开始了。”
The protesters were dispersed by soldiers at dusk, and about five people were arrested.
黄昏时分，抗议者被军人驱散，约有五人被捕。
During the last coup, in 2006, opposition to the military coalesced more slowly.
在2006年的上一次政变中，反对军方的力量集结得更为缓慢。
Thailand has had about a dozen coups over the past eight decades, but analysts said Thursday’s upheaval was among the most contentious, and risky. The party that was ousted is well organized and has vowed to fight for electoral democracy.
过去八十年里，泰国发生了大约12次政变，但分析人士称，周四的动乱是其中最具争议、风险最高的政变之一。被罢黜的政党组织有序，且发誓要为了选举民主而战。
One prominent member of the movement supporting the deposed government, Sombat Boonngamanong, wrote on Facebook that he would defy a military summons. “Catch me if you can,” he titled his post.
在支持遭废黜政府的运动中，知名成员陈廷发(Sombat Boonngamanong)在Facebook上写道，他不会理会军方的传唤。他为这篇帖子起的标题为《有本事来抓我》。
“I don’t accept the power of the coup makers,” he wrote, urging Thais to “join the resistance.”
“我不接受发动政变者的统治，”他写道。他呼吁泰国民众“加入抵抗运动”。
The political movement was founded by Ms. Yingluck’s brother Thaksin Shinawatra, a tycoon and former prime minister. The coup has effectively disenfranchised Mr. Thaksin’s many supporters in the rural north of the country, who keep winning national elections only to see their chosen leaders ousted in a long-running political struggle with the Bangkok establishment. The 2006 coup unseated Mr. Thaksin, who now lives in self-imposed exile rather than face corruption charges at home that he says are politically motivated.
这场政治运动由英拉的哥哥他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)创立。这名商界大亨也曾担任总理。此次政变实际上剥夺了该国北部乡村地区许多他信支持者的选举权。他们连续在全国选举中获胜，但却只能眼见着自己选出来的领导人，在一场与曼谷权势阶层展开的旷日持久的政治斗争中被废黜。2006年的那场政变迫使他信下台。他目前过着自我流亡的生活，不愿回到国内面对腐败指控，因为他称相关指控出于政治动机。
Still, as with the coup in 2006, many Thais said this week that they were grateful toward the military, blaming politicians for a six-month political deadlock and saying it necessitated a takeover.
然而，与2006年的政变一样，许多泰国人表示，他们对军队心怀感激，并把长达六个月的政治僵局归咎于政客，说是这种僵局迫使军方接管了政权。
“It’s time to clean this country up,” read one comment on a special Facebook page that was set up by the junta but carried a wide range of opinions. “Hooray! Our hearts are with the Thai military.”
Facebook的一个专门网页上有条评论写道，“是时候整顿这个国家了。万岁！我们和泰国军队一条心。”这个页面由军政府设立，不过登载了各类意见。
Another posting described the coup as futile because Mr. Thaksin’s political movement would probably win elections again once democracy returned to the country. His movement has won every election since 2001, but its leaders have been removed from power five times, including three times by the courts, whose decisions have largely favored the traditional elites.
另一条留言则认为，政变是白费心机，原因是一旦泰国重新恢复民主政体，支持他信的政治运动很可能会再次在选举中获胜。该运动赢得了2001年以来的历届选举，然而，当选者已被五次赶下台，其中有三次遭法院罢免，而法院的决定在很大程度上对传统权势阶层有利。
Ms. Yingluck was already out of office at the time of this week’s coup, after having been removed this month by a court ruling; one of her deputies had taken over as prime minister.
本周的政变发动之前，法院已在本月通过一纸裁决罢免了英拉；她的一名副手接替了总理一职。
There was a sense among analysts and commentators that Thailand’s political turmoil was far from over.
分析与评论人士当中存在一种感觉，即泰国的政治动荡还远未结束。
The Bangkok Post, an English-language daily newspaper, warned in an editorial that a coup was “not the solution.” The military’s takeover is “likely to stir up stiff resistance, provoke acts of violence and possibly cause more loss of life,” it said.
英文日报《曼谷邮报》(Bangkok Post)在一篇社论中警告，政变“不是解决之道”。文中称，军队的夺权“很可能会激起强硬抵抗，挑起暴力行为，可能还会导致更多人丧命。”
The United States on Friday urged citizens to “reconsider any nonessential travel to Thailand.”
美国于周五督促本国公民“重新考虑所有非必要的泰国行程”。