BANGKOK — The embattled government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra declared the imposition of emergency rule in Bangkok and surrounding areas on Tuesday, suggesting a more aggressive posture toward antigovernment protesters who have occupied parts of the city during the past two months and are seeking to overthrow the government.
曼谷——周二，泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)严阵以待的政府宣布要在曼谷和周边地区实施紧急状态法，表明政府对反政府抗议者采取了更强硬的立场。过去两个月，抗议者占领了曼谷的部分地区，试图推翻政府。
But officials said they had no plans to crack down on protesters, who have escalated their campaign over the past week by blocking government offices, taking over major intersections and staging daily marches across Bangkok. The emergency decree enacted Tuesday gives the government the power to invoke curfews, censor the news media, disperse gatherings and use military force to “secure order.”
但是，官员说他们没有镇压抗议者的打算。过去一周，抗议者加大了抗议力度，不光封锁政府办公室，占领主要交通路口，而且每天都在曼谷街头游行示威。周二颁布的紧急状态令赋予了政府实施宵禁、审查媒体、驱散集会和动用军队来“维持秩序”的权力。
Surapong Tovichakchaikul, Thailand’s foreign minister, said the move was necessary because protesters had broken the law by blocking government offices and banks in recent days and threatening and harassing government officials. The imposition of the decree will “allow the democratic process and Thailand to move forward,” he said.
泰国外交部长素拉蓬·多威差猜恭(Surapong Tovichakchaikul)表示，这样做很有必要，因为抗议者近日封锁政府办公室和银行，并且威胁和骚扰政府官员，这些行为违反了法律。他说，这项命令的实施将“使民主进程和泰国能够继续向前发展”。
Protesters have been attacked by unknown assailants in recent days. Three grenade attacks left one person dead and dozens injured. The government and the protesters have blamed each other for those attacks.
近日，抗议者遭到了不明身份袭击者的攻击。三次手榴弹袭击共导致一人死亡，数十人受伤。政府和抗议者都指责对方应该对这些袭击负责。
The emergency decree, which is valid for 60 days, was passed under the same law that a different government used in 2010 to start a military crackdown that left dozens of people dead. Underlining the seesaw power struggle that has gripped Thailand for the better part of the past eight years, the man responsible for the crackdown four years ago, Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister, is now leading the antigovernment protests.
前述紧急状态令的有效期为60天，依据是另一届政府曾在2010年使用的同一项法律。当时，政府依据该法对抗议者实施军事镇压，导致了数十人死亡。过去八年的大部分时间里，泰国一直在上演拉锯战式的权力斗争，突出体现之一就是，对四年前镇压行动负有责任的前副总理素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)现在变成了反政府抗议的领导者。
“I know about this well,” Mr. Suthep said to his supporters, discussing the decree. He stepped down from power after his party lost a general election in 2011.
“我非常了解这种招数，”在讨论紧急状态令时，素贴告诉自己的支持者。2011年，他的政党在大选中落败，他也由此失势。
“We will keep fighting until we win,” Mr. Suthep said, describing his protest movement as nonviolent and distinct from the “terrorists” who protested against him in 2010.
“我们将继续战斗，直到取胜，”素贴说。他称自己领导的抗议运动是非暴力的，与2010年那些对他表示抗议的“恐怖分子”截然不同。
Mr. Suthep, who faces murder charges related to the 2010 crackdown, renewed a threat late on Tuesday to shut down Thailand’s air traffic control office, but he also said he would rest on Wednesday for medical reasons.
周二晚间，素贴再次威胁称要关闭泰国的空中交通管制机构，但他也表示，出于医疗原因，周三他会休息一天。素贴因为2010年的镇压行动而面临谋杀指控。
In recent weeks the government has been lauded by foreign governments, including the United States and European countries, for its restraint in handling the protests. The police have not tried to arrest Mr. Suthep despite a court-issued warrant for rebellion against the state.
最近几周，包括美国及欧洲国家在内的外国政府称赞了泰国政府应对抗议活动时的克制态度。警方没有设法逮捕素贴，尽管法院以发动叛乱为由发布了针对他的逮捕令。
In addition to the emergency decree, the government on Tuesday put a combative government minister and former police officer, Chalerm Yubamrung, in charge of security.
除紧急状态法之外，泰国政府周二还安排差林·裕班伦(Chalerm Yubamrung)来负责安全事务，后者是一名好斗的政府部长，曾经担任警官。
Mr. Suthep is trying to disrupt elections scheduled for Feb. 2 that Ms. Yingluck and her allies are considered almost certain to win. The opposition Democrat Party, which is allied with Mr. Suthep, is boycotting the election.
素贴正在设法阻挠原定于2月2日举行的选举，外界认为，英拉及其盟友几乎肯定会赢得此次选举。与素贴结盟的反对党民主党(Democrat Party)拒绝参加此次选举。
In a country long plagued by corruption, protest leaders say Ms. Yingluck’s party has taken graft to a new level and are subverting democracy. Protesters are calling for an unelected “people’s council” to run the country and carry out political reforms. The government says protesters are in the streets because they cannot win at the ballot box.
泰国长期受到腐败问题的困扰，抗议活动领导人称英拉所在政党使贪污问题变本加厉，并且打算颠覆民主体制。抗议者要求成立一个不由选举产生的“人民委员会”(people’s council)，由这个委员会来治理国家，开展政治改革。政府则表示，抗议者之所以走上街头，是因为他们无法在选举中获胜。
The debilitating and complex power struggle in Thailand has put into question the future of Thai democracy. Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, the founder of the most successful political movement in modern Thai history, have broad support in the north of the country. The protesters draw their support from Bangkok and the south. The powerful Thai military, which has staged a dozen coups in modern Thai history, is being courted by both sides.
泰国这种破坏性的复杂权力斗争已经使人们对泰国民主制度的未来产生了怀疑。英拉及其兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)在泰国北部获得了广泛支持，他信是泰国现代史上最成功政治运动的发起人。抗议者则获得了曼谷及南部地区民众的支持。双方都在争取势力强大的泰国军方的支持。泰国进入现代之后，泰国军方已经发动了十几次政变。