BANGKOK — The head of Thailand’s military government, Prayuth Chan-ocha, said on Tuesday that security forces had arrested a man they believe planted the bomb that killed 20 people in Bangkok two weeks ago.
曼谷——泰国军政府首脑巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)周二表示，泰国安全部门此前逮捕了一名男子，他们认为该男子就是两周前在曼谷放置炸弹导致20人死亡的凶手。
Just hours after the arrest along the border between Thailand and Cambodia, a police spokesman, Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri, said the authorities were confident that the man was “a key perpetrator in this case.”
在泰国和柬埔寨边境逮捕这名男子不到几小时后，泰国警方发言人巴武·塔翁西里中将(Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri)就对外表示，当局相信此人就是“这一案件的关键行凶者”。
But in an investigation that has been criticized for a number of false leads, the police acknowledged that they had minimal evidence to substantiate their suspicions.
但是，警方也承认，他们所掌握的可以支持这一指控的证据非常少。这宗案件的调查工作出现许多错误线索，因而备受外界指责。
“We don’t have the evidence yet,” said General Prawut, adding that the man was charged with trying to cross the border illegally. He said the authorities had yet to conduct a DNA test and other forensic exams.
“我们目前还没有相关证据，”巴武中将说。他还表示该男子已经被控非法越境。他说，当局还需进行DNA检测和其他取证检验。
It was the second arrest since the Aug. 17 attack, the worst bombing in recent Thai history, which struck in the heart of Bangkok’s main shopping district.
自8月17日爆炸案发生以来，这是泰国警方逮捕的第二名嫌疑人。这起爆炸案是泰国近年来最严重的一起，就发生在曼谷中心城区的重要商业区内。
The police said they did not know the nationality of the man who was detained on Tuesday, but they said he was foreign.
警方表示，他们并不知道周二扣押的这名男子的国籍，但他们表示该男子为外籍人士。
The authorities have been searching for a man who was seen in a video placing a backpack under a bench near the Erawan Shrine minutes before the explosion. Mr. Prayuth said the suspect who was arrested on Tuesday “looks similar” to the man in the security camera footage, but he added that the police would proceed with other procedures, including a fingerprint analysis.
泰国当局一直在寻找一名男子，视频显示该男子在爆炸案发生前几分钟，在靠近四面佛的一张长椅下放置了一个双肩背包。巴育表示，周二抓捕的嫌疑人与监控摄像头拍摄到的这名男子“非常相像”，但他也表示，警方还将开展包括指纹分析在内的其他鉴定程序。
Thai news media showed an image of a lanky man with the beginnings of a beard in the custody of soldiers. The Thai police said that he was arrested as he was trying to cross the border into Cambodia and that he spoke to the authorities in English.
泰国媒体发布的一张照片显示，泰国士兵控制了一名身材瘦长、刚开始蓄起胡须的男子。泰国警方表示，他是在试图越境进入柬埔寨时被抓获的，而且他和泰国当局交流时说的是英语。
Mr. Prayuth said the man had sought to evade security forces before being detained.
巴育表示，这名男子在被扣押之前曾试图逃脱安全部队的抓捕。
“He was trying to escape,” he said.
“他正试图逃跑，”他说道。
“We are looking for the bomber, the person who ordered it and the person who used a phone,” he said, without elaborating. “We have to arrest them all.”
“我们正在搜捕爆炸实施者、下令实施爆炸的人，以及一个使用了一部电话的人，”他语焉不详地讲道。“我们必须把他们都抓捕归案。”
The first arrest in the investigation was announced on Saturday. That man was also said to be a foreigner; his name and nationality have also not been released.
警方在上周六宣布了这起案件调查中抓捕的第一名嫌疑人。该男子也被指为外籍人士，他的名字和国籍至今也没有公布。
On Monday, the authorities issued two arrest warrants in connection with the case, one of them for Wanna Suansan, a woman from a Muslim area in southern Thailand whose family said she had moved to Turkey weeks before the bombing. Her village headman, acting as a spokesman, said she was innocent and willing to come back to Thailand to prove it.
周一，当局发布了与此案有关的两个通缉令，一个是抓捕来自泰国南部穆斯林地区、名为万纳·苏安赞(Wanna Suansan)的女子，她的家人表示她在爆炸案发生前几周已经移居土耳其。作为万纳的发言人，她之前所在村庄的村长表示她是无辜的，也愿意回泰国证明自己的清白。
He said on Tuesday that family members were shocked when they saw news of the warrant because the police had not contacted them beforehand.
村长还表示，周二她的家人看到有关通缉令的新闻时，感到很震惊，因为警方此前不曾联系过他们。
The authorities issued three additional arrest warrants on Tuesday, including for two men they identified as Ahmet Bozoglan and Ali Jolan. The warrant for Mr. Bozoglan included what appeared to be a Turkish identity document. They released a sketch of the third man, whom they described as Turkish but whose identity they did not know.
泰国当局周二签发了另外三条通缉令，其中两条是针对被他们指认为艾哈迈德 ·博佐格兰(Ahmet Bozoglan)和阿里·约兰(Ali Jolan)的两名男子。抓捕博佐格兰的通缉令，包含一份似乎是土耳其身份证明的文件。他们还发布了第三个抓捕对象的一张素描画像，警方称此人是土耳其人，但他们并不知道他的确切身份。
The Thai government, which has been run by the military since a coup last May, has been vague about possible motives behind the shrine attack. But General Prawut, the police spokesman, on Tuesday offered some of the most detailed comments yet on the group that is believed to have carried it out.
自去年5月发生政变以来，泰国政权就落入军方手中。该政府一直对神庙袭击背后的动机含糊其辞。不过，本周二警方发言人巴武中将针对这个据信制造爆炸的犯罪团伙，发表了一些最为详尽的评论。
He called the perpetrators members of a “syndicate” involved in smuggling people across borders and producing fake passports. The police discovered 200 such documents in the Saturday raid that produced the first arrest.
他称这些罪犯属于一个从事人口走私和制作假护照的“犯罪集团”。在周六抓捕第一名犯罪嫌疑人的突击行动中，警方发现了200多份此类伪造文件。
General Prawut said the syndicate might have been angered by a crackdown on human trafficking in recent months. “This may have been a revenge attack,” he said on a Thai television program on Tuesday. “They held a grudge against officials.”
巴武中将表示，该犯罪集团可能是被泰国政府最近几个月开展的打击人口走私的严厉行动所激怒。“这可能是一起报复性袭击事件，”他周二在泰国一档电视节目中说。“他们对泰国官员心存怨恨。”
After the discovery of mass graves this year along the country’s border with Malaysia, Thai officials bowed to foreign pressure and vowed to dismantle a thriving industry built around smuggling refugees and migrants, mainly from Myanmar and Bangladesh, to Malaysia, where such migrants have traditionally sought work.
今年泰国在靠近马来西亚的边境沿线发现了多个乱葬岗，之后泰国政府迫于国际压力，宣称要消除一个以走私难民和移民为主的兴盛产业。这些难民和移民主要来自缅甸、孟加拉国，要前往马来西亚，这些移民传统上会到马来西亚寻找工作机会。
But the network described by General Prawut appears to be distinct from those illicit operations, which focused on Southeast Asia. The suspect arrested on Saturday had a crude counterfeit of a Turkish passport, and the 200 fake documents seized during his arrest were also meant to pass as Turkish.
但巴武中将描述的人口走私网络，似乎和那些主要集中在东南亚的非法团伙不同。周六逮捕的嫌疑人，持有一份制作粗糙的假土耳其护照，同时截获的200份伪造证件也是意在冒充土耳其证件。
General Prawut said that the Thai authorities had passed on information about the suspect arrested on Saturday to the Turkish authorities and that the Turks were trying to help identify his nationality.
巴武中将表示，泰国当局已经将有关周六逮捕的嫌疑人的信息提供给了土耳其当局，土耳其方面正在帮助确认他的国籍。