BANGKOK — Like the antigovernment protesters trying to overthrow the Thai government, Somchai Srisutthiyakorn says he is against holding elections next month and does not think they will do anything to bring a resolution to the country’s increasingly violent political turmoil.
曼谷——与试图推翻泰国政府的反对派抗议者一样，颂猜·西素提亚空(Somchai Srisutthiyakorn)表示，他反对下月进行选举，并认为选举无助于解决该国暴力色彩日益严重的政治骚乱。
But Mr. Somchai is not a protester — he is one of five members of the country’s Election Commission whose mission, according to Thai law, is to arrange, provide support and promote elections.
不过，颂猜并非一名抗议者，而是泰国选举委员会的五名委员之一。根据泰国法律，该委员会的职责就是安排、支持并促进选举。
“The Election Commission must arrange elections,” Mr. Somchai said in an interview this week. “But we must be sure the election benefits society.”
“选举委员会必须做出选举安排，”颂猜本周接受采访时称。“可是，我们必须确保选举有益于社会。”
Mr. Somchai said that he and the four other commissioners are in agreement: they do not oppose elections but want them held at an unspecified “suitable time.”
颂猜表示，他们五名委员达成了一致：不反对选举，但希望在一个不确定的“合适时间”举行。
Mr. Somchai’s lack of enthusiasm for the Feb. 2 elections, which were endorsed by royal decree last month when the government dissolved Parliament, underlines the depth of divisions in Thai society after two months of debilitating protests in Bangkok.
政府上月解散了国会，并决定于2月2日进行选举。此举获得了皇室的支持。颂猜对选举缺乏热情，突显了历经两个月曼谷抗议活动折磨的泰国社会分歧严重。
In the latest act of violence, Kwanchai Praipana, a prominent government supporter, was shot and wounded in northern Thailand on Wednesday, a day after the Thai government declared a state of emergency in Bangkok.
在最新的暴力事件中，著名的政府支持者宽猜·普莱帕纳(Kwanchai Praipana)于周三在泰国北部遭枪击负伤。此前一天，政府宣布曼谷进入紧急状态。
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has been under intense pressure over the last two months as antigovernment protesters have become increasingly aggressive in their campaign to banish her, scuttle elections and overthrow her government.
过去两个月中，泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)面临了巨大压力。为了赶她下台、阻挠选举并推翻政府，反政府示威者变得越来越激进。
But equally challenging for her government has been resistance from inside government agencies. In addition to the Election Commission’s efforts to put off the elections, the Constitutional Court recently ruled against the government in two key cases and the National Anti-Corruption Commission has announced that it is pursuing two large investigations against members of the ruling party that could ultimately lead to party members being banned from politics or the party being dissolved.
然而，来自政府机构内部的抵制也同样考验着她领导的政府。除了选举委员会希望推迟选举，宪法法院最近在两起重大案件中做出了对政府不利的判决，而国家反腐败委员会(National Anti-Corruption Commission)则宣布，正在进行两起针对执政党成员的大型调查，其结果可能最终导致多名成员被禁止从政，乃至执政党遭解散。
Critics and more dispassionate analysts in Thailand have been struck by what they describe as an Election Commission reluctant to hold elections.
泰国的评论人士与较为客观的分析人士表示，选举委员会不愿进行选举。这让他们颇为惊讶。
“There seems no historical case — worldwide — of an official body in charge of holding an election that actively and aggressively opposed an election from every possible angle, at every possible moment,” said a recent commentary in the Bangkok Post, an influential English-language daily.
“好像世界范围内都没有这样的先例，一家负责进行选举的官方机构，竟然积极地大力反对选举，不放过每个可能的角度，以及每个可能的时机，”颇具影响的英文日报《曼谷邮报》(Bangkok Post)在近期的一篇评论文章中写道。
Government supporters say Mr. Somchai, the commissioner, sympathizes with the protests, offering as evidence a photo of him on the Internet posing with two people at one of the protest sites in Bangkok.
支持政府的人士称，颂猜委员同情抗议者，证据就是网上的一张照片，其中显示，他在曼谷的一个抗议地点与两人合影。
Mr. Somchai says he happened to be at shopping mall last week situated in the middle of the protests and “it’s common for people to take photos with me.”
颂猜则解释，他上周刚好去了抗议活动经过的一家购物中心，而“别人与我合影的事情很常见”。
Mr. Somchai has also been criticized for his adversarial comments toward the government. Last week he said that in order to get Ms. Yingluck, who is Thailand’s first female prime minister, to meet with him he will propose a rendezvous at the Four Seasons hotel in Bangkok. It was a reference to rumors — denied by Ms. Yingluck — that she met a real estate mogul there for a tryst.
颂猜还因发表敌对政府的言论而遭受批评。英拉是泰国的首名女总理。颂猜上周称，为了让她与自己会面，将提议两人约在曼谷的四季酒店。这一说法影射了英拉否认的某些传言，即她曾与一名地产大亨在此地幽会。
Mr. Somchai says with a smile that he made the comment to “get someone’s attention.”
颂猜面带微笑地说，他之所以这样评论，是为了“得到某人的关注”。
But the governing party did not take it as a joke. The comments about the Four Seasons are listed as evidence in impeachment proceedings started last week by the governing party against Mr. Somchai. The proceedings are seen largely as symbolic because the lengthy process is likely to take months, presumably after elections are held.
不过，执政党并未一笑了之。在该党上周开启的弹劾颂猜的程序中，四季酒店的说法被列为证据。弹劾之举基本被视为 仅具象征意义，因为冗长的程序很可能耗费数月时间，想必到时选举已经结束。
To his detractors, Mr. Somchai exemplifies a Bangkok-centric mind-set that discounts the wishes of people in the country’s populous northern provinces, who by most accounts are eager to cast their votes next month.
在猛烈抨击颂猜的人看来，他正好代表了无视泰国北部省份众多人口的意愿而只着眼于曼谷的那种心态。多数报道称，北部的民众急热切盼望下月投票。
In the interview, Mr. Somchai emphasized the awakening of the Bangkok middle class, which is “made up of educated people.”
接受采访时，颂猜强调了曼谷中产阶级的觉醒，在他口中，中产阶级是“由受过教育的人组成”。
Thailand’s current deadlock, he said, “is a phenomenon of middle-class people in society who can no longer bear the political conditions of present day.”
他还说，曼谷目前的僵局“是一种现象，表明社会上的中产阶级不再能忍受现今的政治局面”。
Last month, protesters blocked the registration of candidates in several districts in southern Thailand, part of their campaign to block the elections.
上个月，抗议者在泰国南部的数个选区阻挠候选人登记。这属于他们阻止选举的行动之一。
Sodsri Satayatham, a former election commissioner, says she recognizes the difficulty of the situation but that the Election Commission should have done more, including asking the military to help ensure that candidates can register.
选举委员会前成员索斯丽·萨塔雅通(Sodsri Satayatham)承认时局艰难，但表示委员会应当采取更多行动，比如请求军方协助，确保候选人能够完成登记工作。
“We cannot allow the violators of the law to do anything they want – and allow the country to go without any rule of law,” she said in an interview.
“我们不能容忍违法者为所欲为，容忍国家与法治背道而驰，”她接受采访时说。
Ms. Sodsri says the Election Commission has no choice but to go ahead with the Feb. 2 elections.
索斯丽认为，选举委员会别无选择，必须继续2月2日的选举计划。
“The law doesn’t allow postponement,” she said.
“法律不允许延后，”她说。
Mr. Somchai says he and other commissioners are facing “massive pressure” from antigovernment protesters and that the military has declined requests to help guard the election process.
颂猜则称，五名委员正面临来自反政府抗议者的“巨大压力”，而且军方拒绝了帮助维持选举秩序的请求。
“I am afraid that if the election goes ahead, there will be violence and it may lead to a coup,” he said. (His critics say he has it the wrong way around: putting off elections will create a power vacuum that could lead to a coup, they say.)
“恐怕按时选举的话，会出现暴力，还可能导致政变，”他说。（批评他的人士则说他正好搞反了。他们宣称，延迟选举将造成权力真空，从而可能导致政变。）
Mr. Somchai says he is aware that the Election Commission has the power to call upon the security forces to ensure that the elections take place on time. But the law, he says, is not paramount at a time of intense turmoil.
颂猜称，他的确知道，选举委员会有权征召安全部队来确保选举按时进行。但他还表示，法律并非严重骚乱时期的最高准则。
“Our society today cannot only live by the law,” he said. “We also have to make sure the country survives.”
“我们今天的社会不能只靠法律过活，”他说。“我们还得确保国家存活下来。”