BANGKOK — Thailand’s crown prince ascended to the throne on Thursday, seven weeks after the death of his father, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who died after reigning for seven decades.
曼谷——周四，泰国王储登上王位。他的父亲普密蓬·阿杜德(King Bhumibol Adulyadej)国王在位70年后于7周前去世。
In a formal ceremony at the Dusit Palace in Bangkok, the prince, crowned as King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun, 64, accepted the invitation to take the throne offered by the National Assembly president.
在位于曼谷的律实宫(Dusit Palace)举行的一个正式仪式上，64岁的王子接受了国家立法议会主席发出的继位邀请，被加冕为玛哈·哇集拉隆功·博丁德拉德巴亚瓦朗格昆(King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun)国王。
Afterward, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha said in a televised speech that the new monarch would be declared king retroactively to the day his father passed away. He also will be known as King Rama X of the Chakri dynasty.
之后，泰国总理巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)发表了电视讲话，称新任君主将被宣布为国王，其时效可以追溯到他父亲去世那天。他将被称为扎克里王朝(Chakri)拉玛十世(King Rama X)。
“The heir to the throne graciously accepted the invitation,” the prime minister said. “A kingdom should not be without a monarch on the throne. The commencement of the new reign is therefore effective as of 13 October 2016.”
“王位继承人彬彬有礼地接受了邀请，”泰国总理讲道。“一个王国的王位不该空缺。因此王位的授予从2016年10月13日开始生效。”
The crown prince had declined to take the throne immediately after his father’s death, saying he needed time to grieve.
之前，这位王储拒绝了在父亲去世时立刻接受王位，称他需要时间哀悼。
Thailand’s royal succession is an elaborate process that can extend for many months. King Bhumibol’s cremation will take place about a year after his death. King Vajiralongkorn’s coronation will take place at some point after that.
泰国的皇位继承是一个十分复杂的过程，可以延续数月。普密蓬国王的火化仪式将在他去世一年后举行。哇集拉隆功国王的加冕礼将放在那之后。
King Bhumibol was revered by many Thais who saw him as an advocate of the common people and a promoter of economic development. The official 30-day mourning period for the public has ended, but even now many people still wear black clothing or a black ribbon to honor him.
普密蓬国王在泰国受到许多人的敬重，被视为平民的支持者和经济发展的推动者。官方规定的30天公众哀悼期已经结束，但直到现在还有许多人继续穿着黑衣或带着黑丝带，以示缅怀。
The country is sharply divided but the military, which has held power since a 2014 coup, remains firmly in control. King Bhumibol was a unifying figure and many Thais have been anxious about what kind of leadership they can expect from King Vajiralongkorn, who has lived primarily in Germany for years.
这个国家分化极为严重，但从2014年的一场政变开始掌权的军方依然牢牢掌控着它。普密蓬国王是一个颇具凝聚力的人物，他的离世让许多泰国人感到焦虑，他们不知道此前在德国生活多年的哇集拉隆功会带来什么样的领导。
“Although we all know that to be parted from the person we love and respect is suffering,” the prime minister said, “although the loss and sadness are an undeniable crisis, we should turn this crisis into an opportunity and turn grief into the strength of the land.”
“尽管我们都知道与自己爱戴和敬重的人分别是痛苦的，”泰国总理说道，“尽管这损失与悲伤是一场无可否认的危机，但我们应该变危机为机会，化悲痛为力量。”