BANGKOK — The anticorruption authorities in Thailand announced Tuesday that they were opening investigations of 308 lawmakers, most of them from the governing party, on suspicion of “malfeasance in office,” in connection with a constitutional amendment that was later ruled by a court to have been enacted illegally.
曼谷——周二，泰国反贪机构宣布正在启动对308名议员的调查。这些议员涉嫌“渎职”，与一项宪法修正案有牵连，该法案后来被一家法院裁定为非法颁行。涉事议员大部分来自执政党。
The investigations, which critics called highly political, could destabilize the governing party, Pheu Thai, because of the number of prominent lawmakers involved.
批评人士称这次调查带有强烈的政治色彩。调查涉及的知名议员较多，因此可能会影响执政党为泰党(Pheu Thai)的稳定。
The protesters say they are fighting the dominance of Ms. Yingluck’s family in the country, and especially the power of her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire tycoon and former prime minister. He remains a major force in Thai politics, despite living in exile abroad and his conviction in 2008 on charges of abusing his power while in office.
抗议者称自己是在努力推翻英拉家族在泰国的统治地位，尤其是其兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的权力。亿万富翁他信是泰国的前总理。他信虽已流亡海外，且在2008年被判在任时滥用职权，但却依然是泰国政坛的一支主要力量。
Protest leaders say they will “shut down” Bangkok next week, a plan that is opposed by the country’s most prominent business associations but is apparently backed by tens of thousands of protesters, many of whom marched through Bangkok again on Tuesday.
抗议活动领袖称将在下周“关闭”曼谷，这一计划遭到了泰国最有名的一些商业协会的反对，但却似乎得到了成千上万抗议者的支持，其中许多抗议者周二再度在曼谷举行游行。
The government stationed police units at Bangkok’s main international airport on Tuesday, apparently in an effort to protect the airport from the turmoil. The airport, a regional hub, was shut down by similar groups of protesters in 2008, disrupting travel in Thailand and neighboring countries.
周二，政府在曼谷的主要国际机场部署了警力，似乎是为了保护机场不受骚乱的影响。该机场是一个地区性枢纽，2008年曾被类似的抗议者团体关闭，泰国和一些邻国的出行由此受到影响。
In some other countries, moving to a fully elected upper house might be applauded as a stride toward greater democracy; the United States made its Senate directly elected a century ago. But in Thailand, the amendment was seen as cementing the governing party’s dominance, and was fiercely opposed by the Democrats and by the heads of crucial state agencies.
在其他一些国家，向一个完全由选举决定席位的上院靠拢，也许会被盛赞为向民主迈进了一大步；美国在一个世纪以前就实现了参议院席位直选。然而，在泰国，这种变动却被看做巩固执政党支配地位的举措，遭到了民主党和关键国家机构负责人的强烈反对。
Under the Thai Constitution, members of some of the nation’s most important institutions must be confirmed by the Senate, including the Election Commission, the Constitutional Court and the anticorruption commission.
根据泰国宪法，部分最重要国家机构的成员任命必须得到参议院的确认，这些机构包括选举委员会(Election Commission)，宪法法院(Constitutional Court)和反腐委员会。
“The role of the Senate is instrumental,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, the director of the Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “The system is designed to shift power away from the executive branch.”
“参议院的角色是有作用的。这个体制的目的就是转移行政部门的权力。”曼谷朱拉隆功大学安全和国际问题研究中心(Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University)主任提蒂南·蓬苏迪拉克(Thitinan Pongsudhirak)说。
Protest leaders and members of the Democrat Party see the Senate as the last bulwark against the encroaching power of the governing party, Pheu Thai. The system of appointing about half of the Senate seats was introduced by a military-installed government after the 2006 coup that toppled Mr. Thaksin.
抗议活动领袖和民主党成员把参议院视为抵御执政党为泰党权力蔓延的最后一道屏障。他信在2006年的政变中遭到推翻之后，军方支持的政府推出了约半数参议院议席实行任命制的机制。
Gothom Arya, a former election commissioner and one of the country’s leading constitutional experts, said the investigations announced on Tuesday were “highly political.” The anticorruption commission, he said, had “charged the legislators for just doing their jobs,” adding that the controversy amounted to a power struggle between the governing party and elite bureaucrats “fighting for their turf.”
郭登姆‧阿尔亚(Gothom Arya)曾任选举委员，是泰国的宪法权威之一。阿尔亚说，本周二宣布的调查“带有强烈的政治色彩”。他说，反腐委员会“仅仅因为议员们履行义务就对他们提出了指控”，他还说，此次调查引发的争议几乎等同于一场政治斗争，斗争的一方是执政党，另一方则是“为自己的地盘而战”的精英官僚。