BANGKOK — After chaotic clashes between the police and antigovernment protesters in Bangkok on Thursday left one police officer dead and dozens of people injured, the Election Commission of Thailand urged that national elections scheduled for Feb. 2 be postponed, further clouding the country’s future after a month of debilitating street protests.
曼谷——曼谷警方和反政府抗议者于周四爆发混乱冲突，导致一名警察死亡，几十人受伤。此后，泰国选举委员会(Election Commission of Thailand)敦促原定于明年2月2日举行的全国选举延期。过去一个月的街头抗议已让泰国元气大伤，选举延期的提议让该国的前景愈加不明朗。
The proposed delay was rejected by Phongthep Thepkanjana, a deputy prime minister, who said that the government had no power to postpone the elections and warned that a delay could lead to “prolonged violence.”
选举延期的提议遭到了副部长蓬贴·帖甘扎纳(Phongthep Thepkanjana)的的反对。帖甘扎纳说政府无权推迟选举，并警告称，推迟选举可能会导致“暴力活动延长”。
A postponement would be a victory for the protesters, who oppose the elections on the grounds that they will probably return to power the government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Her party is very popular in the northern half of the country but is despised by many southerners and members of the Thai elite.
推迟选举将是抗议者的成功。这些抗议者反对选举，理由是选举可能会让总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)领导的政府重新上台。英拉领导的政党在泰国北部很受欢迎，但却遭到了许多南方人和泰国精英人士的轻蔑。
Over the past month, protesters have raided government ministry buildings, cut power to government offices and police stations, and marched through Bangkok in huge numbers. On Thursday, they tried to raid a Bangkok stadium where political parties were completing pre-election formalities.
过去一个月里，抗议者突袭了一些政府部委所在建筑，切断了一些政府办公地点和警察局的供电，并在曼谷进行大规模游行示威。周四，他们试图突袭曼谷的一座体育场，各政党正在那里办理选举前的手续。
Their attacks on the stadium were thwarted by riot police officers. One officer was killed by gunfire, 15 officers had gunshot wounds and 17 suffered other injuries, the police said.
防暴警察挫败了抗议者对体育场发动的进攻。警方称，一名警察因被枪弹击中而身亡，15名警察受了枪伤，另有17人因其他原因受伤。
Although many of the protesters who have marched through Bangkok in recent weeks are from the upper echelons of Thai society, the group that attacked the riot police on Thursday was part of a hard-core faction. About 70 protesters were injured, as were several journalists.
最近几周在曼谷游行示威的许多抗议者都来自泰国社会的上层，周四攻击防暴警察的那一群人却属于一个死硬派别。大约70名抗议者和多名记者受伤。
Election Commission officials were evacuated from the site by helicopter.
当局用直升机转移了现场的选举委员会官员。
Sunai Phasuk, a senior researcher in Thailand at Human Rights Watch, wrote on Twitter that democracy in the country had been “hijacked by violence and thuggery.”
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)驻泰国的高级研究员苏奈·帕苏克(Sunai Phasuk)在Twitter上发帖称，泰国的民主已经被“暴力和流氓行径劫持了”。
“Shame!” he wrote.
“可耻！”他写道。
Thailand is politically divided between its north and south and between allies and detractors of the Shinawatra clan, the country’s most influential political family, which protesters accuse of subverting Thai democracy and overshadowing the country’s king, a highly emotional issue.
泰国的北部和南部之间存在政治对立，西那瓦家族的盟友和批评者之间也是如此。西那瓦家族是泰国最有势力的政治家族。抗议者指责该家族颠覆泰国的民主，权盖泰国国王，这是一个带有浓厚感情色彩的问题。
The political crisis comes as the Thai economy is slowing and vulnerable. The protests may have contributed to a drop of more than 10 percent in the value of the baht, the Thai currency, since April, although other currencies in the region have also fallen against the United States dollar. Thailand’s Finance Ministry said on Thursday that the country’s economy probably grew at an anemic 2.8 percent this year, lower than forecast, and that growth would suffer next year if the political turmoil endured.
此次政治危机爆发之际，泰国经济正在放缓，呈现脆弱态势。尽管该地区的其他货币对美元也出现了贬值，但泰铢自4月以来已贬值逾10%，抗议活动可能也是原因之一。泰国财政部(Finance Ministry)周四表示，泰国经济今年的增幅可能仅为2.8%，低于预期，如果这场政治动乱持续下去，明年的经济增速也会受影响。
In comments to reporters on Thursday, the head of the Election Commission, Somchai Srisuthiyakorn, said he had urged the government to postpone the elections. But he also said they would not take place on Feb. 2 unless protesters reached an accommodation with the government.
周四面向记者发表评论时，选举委员会主席颂猜·西素提亚空(Somchai Srisuthiyakorn)说，他已敦促政府推迟大选。但他也表示，除非抗议者与政府达成和解，2月2日是无法举行选举的。
“If there’s no understanding or agreement in our society, the election on Feb. 2 is not going to happen,” he said.
“如果我们的社会不能达成谅解或共识，定于2月2日的选举是无法如期举行的，”他说。
In separate comments made to a Thai television station, he gave what appeared to be the rationale for the proposed delay.
在另一个场合，面对泰国一家电视台发表评论时，他似乎给出了提议选举延期的理由。
“We used to think that elections were the way to solve problems in society, like starting over,” Mr. Somchai said. But the dissolution of Parliament this month and the call for elections seemed to escalate violence.
“我们一向以为，选举是解决社会问题的办法，就像重新开始一样，”颂猜说。但本月解散议会和要求举行选举的做法似乎让暴力升级了。
“I am afraid that the society will be in conflict and turn violent,” he said. “It’s as if it’s not worth it to have elections.”
“我担心社会陷入冲突，转向暴力，”他说，“鉴于目前的形势，似乎不值得举行选举。”
Charupong Ruangsuwan, the head of the governing party, Pheu Thai, and also the country’s interior minister, reacted angrily to the proposed postponement.
执政党为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)领袖、泰国内政部长乍鲁蓬·琅素旺(Charupong Ruangsuwan)对延期选举的提议表示愤怒。
“I insist that the Election Commission has to comply with the law,” he said in televised remarks. “The Election Commission has a duty to carry out the whole process.”
“我坚持认为，选举委员会应该遵守法律，”他在电视讲话中说。“选举委员会有责任完成整个流程。”
The protests on most days have been confined to a limited area of Bangkok, and many visitors to the sprawling city have been unaware of the turmoil. But hoteliers say the crisis has led to cancellations during what is traditionally Thailand’s peak tourism season.
大多数时候，抗议活动都局限在曼谷的一小片区域，来这座大城市旅游的许多游客都对这场骚动毫不知情。但旅店老板称，此时正是泰国的旅游旺季，很多旅客都因为此次危机取消了预订。
The protesters are closely allied with Thailand’s Democrat Party, the oldest political party in the country, which has struggled over the past decade to compete with the popularity of Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister who is Ms. Yingluck’s older brother.
抗议者与泰国最古老的政党民主党(Democrat Party)结成了亲密联盟。过去10年，民主党一直在与泰国前总理、英拉的哥哥他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)争夺民众的支持。
The Democrats announced last weekend that they would boycott the Feb. 2 elections. Every other major party has said it will participate.
上周末，民主党宣布他们将对2月2日的选举进行抵制。其他主要党派则都表示，他们将会参加选举。
The crisis has confounded many observers because the protesters — who on some days have numbered in the hundreds of thousands in Bangkok — are opposed to elections, in effect demanding less democracy, not more.
这场危机让许多观察人士感到困惑，因为抗议者——有几天，曼谷的抗议者达到了数十万人——反对选举，这样的举动实际上等于要求限制民主，而不是扩大民主。
Chuwit Kamolvisit, the leader of a small opposition party, Rak Prathetthai, said he did not understand the objections.
反对派小党爱泰党(Rak Prathetthai)的领袖楚威德·卡默尔威西特(Chuwit Kamolvisit)说，他不理解人们为什么反对选举。
“I don’t know why elections, which are accepted as international standards of democratic systems, are heavily opposed like this,” he said in a Facebook posting on Thursday. The government and the protesters differ over whether they want changes before or after elections, he said. But “at the end of the day,” he added, “it will come down to elections.”
“选举是民主制度的公认国际标准，我不知道为什么会有人强烈反对，”他周四在Facebok上发帖称。他说，政府和抗议者的分歧在于，推行变革的时间应该在选举之前还是选举之后。但是“到头来”，他补充道，“还是要进行选举。”
Protesters have rejected offers by the government for negotiations. Their goal, they say, is the eradication of what they call the Shinawatra regime from the country.
抗议者拒绝了政府的协商提议。他们说，他们的目标就是就是从泰国铲除他们所说的西那瓦政权。
Ichal Supriadi, the executive director of the Asian Network for Free Elections, an organization that monitors elections, said people in other countries have opposed elections, sometimes on security grounds. But this is the first time he has witnessed such a mass movement against elections, he said.
选举监督组织亚洲自由选举网络(Asian Network for Free Elections)的执行主任伊乍尔·苏普亚迪(Ichal Supriadi)说，其他国家的人民也曾反对选举，有时是出于安全原因。他说，但这是他第一次见到人们通过如此大规模的运动来反对选举。
In what read like an introductory course on democracy, Mr. Ichal issued a statement on Tuesday lauding the “unique role” of elections and urging protesters to allow the voting to proceed.
伊乍尔周二发表的声明读起来像是关于民主的一篇入门介绍，他在其中赞扬了选举的“独特作用”，并呼吁抗议者允许投票继续进行。
“All efforts and plans to forcibly impede the election process should cease,” his organization said in the statement.
他的组织在声明中说，“所有强行阻挠选举进程的行动和计划都应该停止。”
Mr. Ichal, who is from Indonesia, said Thailand had shown “a degree of professionalism” in conducting elections in the past.
来自印度尼西亚的伊乍尔说，泰国在过去的选举中表现出了“一定程度的专业性”。
Pheu Thai won in a landslide in the last election, in 2011, with a turnout of 75 percent. The Democrats conceded defeat.
2011年，为泰党在泰国的上一次选举中以压倒性优势获胜，选举投票率达75%。民主党承认失败。
“We are not taking sides, but we believe that elections are the only mechanism to count every individual in Thailand,” Mr. Ichal said in an interview.
伊乍尔在采访中说，“我们不是在站队，但我们认为，选举是让泰国每个人都有机会发表意见的唯一一种机制。”