BANGKOK — Booming loudspeakers, crowds of cheering protesters and the riot police on alert — after a relative lull of more than two years, politics is back on the streets in Thailand.
曼谷——轰鸣嘈杂的扩音器，欢呼呐喊的示威者，神色戒备的防暴警察 ：经过两年多的相对平静后，政治活动又回到了泰国街头。
Thousands of demonstrators cheered in a vacant lot here on Saturday as speakers threatened to “overthrow” the government. But unlike in previous years, this time the protesters were members of Thailand’s oldest political party, the Democrat Party, which has long had a reputation as the staid, well-mannered and intellectual voice of the Bangkok establishment and has been firmly dedicated to resolving differences inside Parliament, where the Democrats lead the opposition.
上周六，成千上万的示威者聚集在一块空地上，当演讲者威胁要“推翻”政府时，他们发出了欢呼声。但与以往不同的是，这一次示威的民主党是历史最悠久的泰国政党；在该国的政党中，民主党素来以冷静沉着，举止有礼和言论睿智而著称，它是泰国议会里最大的在野党，此前一直坚定地致力于弥合议会内部成员的分歧。
The threats by some of the Democrats’ leaders to lead large-scale street demonstrations in the style of the Arab Spring — stunning to many Thais because it seems so out of character for the party — underlines the persistence of divisions in Thailand and raises the prospect of a return to the political turmoil that left more than 90 people dead on the streets of Bangkok in 2010.
一些民主党领导者引领“阿拉伯之春”式的大规模街头示威活动，这让很多泰国人感到震惊，因为这不是民主党的一贯风格。这些领导者发出的威胁，突显了泰国国内分歧的长期存在，也显露了泰国重返2010年政治动荡局势的可能性。那次政治风暴导致90余人死在曼谷街头。
“We are gathering up the masses, people left behind by this government,” Sathit Wongnongtoey, a Democrat Party member of Parliament, told the crowd on Saturday in front of a backdrop with a huge clenched fist. “We will rise up and fight.”
“我们正在聚集群众，聚集政府不管不顾的人。” 民主党国会议员萨提特·翁农多延(Sathit Wongnongtoey)上周六告诉大家，他身后的背景幕是一个握紧的巨大拳头。“我们将奋起战斗。”
The acrimony between the Democrats and the government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra centers on a number of legislative issues, chiefly an effort by the government to pass an amnesty law for those involved in the 2010 protests. The Democrats oppose the bill, saying it might also apply to those who insulted the monarchy or committed serious crimes.
民主党和英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)总理政府之间出现剑拔弩张的状况，主要跟大量立法问题有关：政府试图通过大赦法，赦免那些在2010年参与抗议的人。民主党则反对这项法案，称它可能也适用于那些侮辱君主制或犯下严重罪行的人。
But the broader conflict appears to stem from the Democrats’ feeling of powerlessness in the face of the resurgence of Thaksin Shinawatra, Ms. Yingluck’s older brother, who sets the broad policy lines for the government and the Pheu Thai Party despite living abroad since 2008 in self-imposed exile to escape corruption charges.
但是，更广泛的冲突似乎源自民主党对英拉的兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的无能为力感。尽管他信自2008年以来，为了逃脱腐败指控，已经自我放逐去了国外，但他为现任政府和为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)设定了大的政策方针。
Abhisit Vejjajiva, a former prime minister who leads the Democrats, has been under relentless pressure since losing parliamentary elections two years ago. He was charged with murder in December in the deaths of protesters in 2010, when he was prime minister.
自从两年前在议会选举中失利后，领导民主党的前总理阿披实·维乍集瓦(Abhisit Vejjajiva)就处在持续的压力之下。去年12月，他被控在2010年担任泰国总理时造成抗议者死亡。
Mr. Abhisit, who was born in Britain and educated at Oxford, has been criticized for being unable to connect with rural voters. The formal language and academic bearing favored by the Democrats won over some Bangkok voters, but the party has been trounced in the rice-growing northeastern part of the country, where one-third of the electorate lives.
阿披实出生于英国，上过牛津大学，一直有人批评他无法与农村选民沟通。他规范的语言和学者风范体现了典型的民主党做派，为他赢得了一些曼谷选民的青睐，但民主党在种植水稻的泰国东北部一败涂地，而该国三分之一的选民都在那里。
At Saturday’s rally, Mr. Abhisit’s speech was earthy and markedly more aggressive than his previous remarks. Other party leaders used coarse language to criticize the government, and the crowd repeatedly called for Ms. Yingluck’s ouster with a vulgar chant.
在上周六的集会上，阿披实的发言比较朴实，而且也明显比他以往的言辞更加咄咄逼人。民主党的其他领导者使用粗糙的言辞批评政府，人群则反复喊着一句下流的口号，呼吁英拉下台。
On Sunday, Ms. Yingluck held a meeting to call for national reconciliation, an effort the Democrats have refused to join.
周日，英拉举行了一次会议，呼吁民族和解，民主党则拒绝参与其中。
Even inside Parliament, the Democrats have sought to portray themselves as street fighters, with one lawmaker shoving a security guard during a ruckus that a Thai newspaper described as a “disgrace.”
即使在议会内，民主党人也试图把自己塑造成为街头战士：在被泰国报纸形容为“耻辱”的一次吵闹事件中，一名国会议员对保安推推搡搡。
“We want to awaken the masses,” said Nipit Intarasombut, a lawmaker who leads the Democrats’ radical faction that advocates aggressive street demonstrations.
“我们要唤醒群众。”议员尼彼特(Nipit Intarasombut)说。他领导的民主党激进派支持举行强硬的街头示威活动。
In a country with a history of military coups and other democratic disruptions, the Democrat Party for years lived by the mantra “I believe in the parliamentary system,” the words of Chuan Leekpai, a former prime minister who is now the party’s elder statesman.
泰国之前曾出现过军事政变和民主倒退局面，而民主党多年来一直都遵循“我信议会制”的信条。这句话出自川·立派(Chuan Leekpai)之口，他曾任泰国总理，现在是民主党元老。
Some in the party say it is a mistake to abandon that principle. Alongkorn Ponlaboot, a veteran lawmaker, calls the protest strategy “destructive democracy.”
民主党内的一些人认为，放弃该原则是错误之举。资深国会议员阿隆功·邦拉布特(Alongkorn Ponlaboot)称这样的抗议策略是“破坏性民主”。
“We will not win people over with mob democracy,” Mr. Alongkorn said. “It will cause indefinite divisions.”
“我们无法通过暴民民主来赢得人心。” 阿隆功说。“这将带来无穷无尽的分裂。”
What the party needs, Mr. Alongkorn said, is a wholesale restructuring, including a system of primaries to choose candidates. The party should focus on bread-and-butter issues at a time when the Thai economy and others in the region are faltering, he said.
阿隆功说，民主党需要进行一次全面重组，包括建立选择候选人的初选系统。他说，在泰国经济和该地区其他国家步履蹒跚之际，民主党应该聚焦在民生问题上。
Data released this month showed that Thailand had entered a mild recession.
本月公布的数据显示，泰国已进入了轻度衰退。
Others have raised questions about how much support the Democrats can mobilize outside the party for their protests. Sombat Boonngamanong, an activist who is a former protest leader for the “red shirts,” a movement that helped propel the Yingluck government to power, said the Democrats were misreading the national mood.
其他人提出的问题包括：民主党的抗议活动可以从党外赢得多少支持。活动人士陈廷发(Sombat Boonngamanong)曾是 “红衫军”抗议活动的领导者，该活动帮助将英拉政府推上了台。陈廷发说：”民主党误读了国民情绪。“
“The society is not ready to spill out into the streets,” he said.
“国民还不准备涌上街头。”他说。
In a sign that he might be right, the leadership of the “yellow shirts,” another once-prominent protest movement, resigned Friday.
有一个迹象可能表明他是正确的：另一个轰动一时的抗议活动“黄衫军” 的领导层在周五辞职。
“We have been through that and learned it’s tiring and expensive,” Mr. Sombat said of street protests. “No one wins. We can’t do this anymore. It’s not the way out of the problem.”
谈到街头抗议活动时，陈廷发说：“我们已经经历过这种情况，知道它的辛苦和高昂代价。没人是赢家。我们不能再这样下去了。这样做没有出路。”