BANGKOK — In a rare public display of palace intrigue in Thailand, relatives of a prominent member of the royal family have been charged with numerous counts of corruption and stripped of their royally bestowed name.
曼谷——泰国王室一名显赫成员的亲属，因为多项腐败罪名而受到指控，还被剥夺了王室赐予的姓氏。这是罕见的一次得到公开披露的泰国宫廷斗争事件。
The implications of the still-unfolding palace purge are not yet fully clear but come at a time of extreme sensitivity surrounding the monarchy, a potent symbol of national unity in a country that has been deeply divided politically for the past decade. King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 86, is ailing, and the current scandal adds to a widespread sense of anxiety about succession.
目前还不清楚尚未尘埃落定的清洗行动会产生怎样的影响，但围绕王室发生的这些事件却极为敏感。过去十年里，泰国政治分歧严重，王室成了国家团结的一个重要象征。现年86岁的泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(King Bhumibol Adulyadej)身体欠佳，而目前的传闻又加剧了人们对王位继承的广泛焦虑。
The family members targeted in the purge are related to Princess Srirasm, the wife of Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn and the mother of Prince Dipangkorn Rasmijoti, the presumed heir to the throne after his father.
此次遭到清洗的王室家族成员是蒙西拉米王储妃(Princess Srirasm)的亲戚。她是泰国王储玛哈·哇集拉隆功(Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn)的妻子，提帮功王子(Prince Dipangkorn Rasmijoti)之母。提帮功王子是继其父之后的王位继承人。
The scandal began to unfold last week when a group of police officers who have links to the princess’s family were arrested. The group, which police say was led by Lt. Gen. Pongpat Chayapan, the powerful former head of the criminal investigation unit, was accused of running illegal casinos, oil smuggling and money laundering, among other crimes.
上周，一些与王储妃家族有关的警察遭到逮捕，丑闻就此拉开序幕。警方称这批警察中为首的是刑事调查部门权力巨大的前负责人蓬帕·差亚班中将(Lt. Gen. Pongpat Chayapan)，他被控经营非法赌场、走私石油、洗钱，以及从事其他犯罪活动。
Troves of what the police say was ill-gotten wealth were paraded for the news media and prominently displayed on front pages, including what resembled a small museum of ancient Buddhist artifacts. The police also said they had seized 24 gold bars, hundreds of Buddhist amulets, stacks of property deeds and 80 truckloads of rare timber. The police dug out many of the items from an underground vault and released images of a backhoe tearing down a wall to get at them.
新闻节目和报纸头版的显著位置，展示了警方宣称的来路不明的大量财富，其中包括大量仿佛是古代佛教文物的藏品。警方还说，他们没收了24块金条、数百件佛牌、成堆的房产文书，以及80卡车珍贵木料。这些物品中，有许多是警方从地下金库中挖出的，警方还公布了用挖掘机推倒墙壁取得这些财物的图片。
Reports of police corruption are common in Thailand, but the highly unusual twist in the case was the charge of lèse-majesté — insulting the monarchy — specifically the allegation, not fully elaborated on by the authorities, that the accused used symbols of the monarchy for their own benefit.
警方腐败的报道在泰国很普遍，然而这宗案件中极不寻常的情节是亵渎王室的罪名。当局指称，被告人使用王室的名誉谋取私利，不过当局并未详细透露指控的情节。
On Saturday, the authorities released a letter sent by the office of the crown prince ordering the government to strip his wife’s family members of their royally bestowed name, Akkarapongpreecha.
周六，官方公布了王储办公室发出的一封信件，信中要求政府剥夺其妻族成员的王室赐姓“阿卡拉邦比差”(Akkarapongpreecha)。
The order appears to leave Princess Srirasm, who was a commoner before she married the crown prince in 2001, in a fragile position.
这一命令似乎让蒙西拉米王储妃陷入了不利境地。她在2001年与王储结婚前是平民身份。
Yet as is typical with royal matters in Thailand, the scandal is being reported in vague terms, and few basic questions are being asked or answered publicly.
然而媒体对这起事件的报道措辞相当含糊，并没有公开追问或解答多少基本的问题。对于涉及王室的事件，这是泰国的惯常做法。
“I would like to inform the press that this is an important case, a sensitive case,” Somyot Poompanmoung, the country’s police chief, told the news media last week. “Sometimes we cannot reveal deep information and detail.”
“我想对媒体表示，这是一个重要的案件，一个敏感的案件，”泰国警方负责人宋永·蓬潘孟(Somyot Poompanmoung)上周对新闻媒体表示。“有时候我们不能深入地披露信息和细节。”
Some aspects of the crackdown remain a mystery. One of the police officers accused of corruption, Col. Akkharawut Limrat, died after plunging from a building. His body was immediately cremated, contrary to traditional Buddhist practices.
这桩案件侦办过程中的一些情节仍然是个谜团。被控腐败的一名警察阿卡拉吾·林赖上校(Col. Akkharawut Limrat)坠楼身亡，而他的遗体却被迅速火化，与传统的佛教丧葬习俗截然相反。
Police officials have said little about the death, including where it occurred.
警队官员对他的死亡所透露的信息极少，连事发地点都没有公布。
“He got stressed out,” Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri, a police spokesman, said. “So he jumped out of the building and died.”
“他承受不了压力，”警方发言人帕乌特·塔翁西里中校(Lt. Gen. Prawut Thavornsiri)说。“所以跳楼身亡。”
Discussion in Thailand, typically a garrulous and freewheeling society, has been muted, at least publicly, on the possible motives of the crackdown and the implications for the monarchy.
泰国社会通常限制极少，言论也随心所欲。但对于此次警方行动可能是出于何种动机，以及会对王室造成什么影响，公众却鸦雀无声，至少在公开场合如此。
“The silence is deafening,” said Thongchai Winichakul, a professor of Southeast Asian history at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who is more free to discuss the issue because he is based outside Thailand. “This subject is forbidden from open and reasonable discussion. This fact tells a lot about Thai society today.”
“这种沉默让人感觉沉重，”威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin-Madison)研究东南亚历史的教授通猜·威尼差古尔(Thongchai Winichakul)表示。“禁止就这个话题开展公开和理性的讨论。这一点能揭示当今泰国社会的许多问题。”由于他身在泰国之外，所以讨论这个议题较为自由。
The use of lèse-majesté law against General Pongpat, who until two weeks ago was one of the most senior members of the police force, appears to further expand the scope of the law.
对蓬帕·差亚班运用亵渎王室的罪名，似乎进一步扩大了这项法律的适用范围。仅仅两周前，他还是警方职务最高的官员之一。
In recent years, at least one member of the royal family has suggested that admiration for the monarchy have fallen among young people. Partly in response, the authorities have become more aggressive in prosecuting lèse-majesté cases. Anyone is entitled to file a lèse-majesté case in Thailand, so the law has turned Thais against one another.
近年来，至少曾有一名王室成员提出，王室在年轻人当中的威信降低了。一定程度上是为了做出回应，官方加大了追究亵渎王室案件的力度。在泰国任何人都可以举报亵渎王室的案件，于是这项法律在泰国人相互之间制造了罅隙。
A taxi driver was sentenced this year to two and a half years after his passenger recorded on his phone a conversation with the driver that a court deemed insulting to the monarchy.
今年，一名出租车司机被判处两年半监禁。因为一名乘客在手机上录下了与司机之间的一段对话，法庭认定这段对话亵渎了王室。