BANGKOK — Five months of protests in Bangkok have snarled traffic, scared away tourists and deflated the Thai economy, but the thousands of protesters who have regularly descended onto the streets have failed to unseat the government or any of its top officials.
曼谷——五个月以来，曼谷的抗议活动导致了交通混乱，吓跑了游客，并且打击了泰国经济。但定期涌向街道的示威民众却没能成功地将政府赶下台，或罢免任何政府高层。
That may change in the coming weeks, as focus shifts from the protesters’ encampment in the heart of Bangkok to the courts and government agencies that have handed down a series of decisions favorable to the protest movement.
但在未来的几周内，随着焦点由曼谷的市中心转向法院及政府机构，这一情况也许会出现变化。法院和相关机构在之前已经宣布了一系列对抗议活动有利的决定。
Although nominally independent, a number of the judges and top officials in the agencies handling cases against Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government have had longstanding antagonistic relationships with Ms. Yingluck and her party.
尽管名义上是独立的，一些处理针对总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)的案件的法官和高层官员与英拉及其政党存在长期的对立关系。
“It no longer makes sense to attempt to explain the current political situation in Thailand by relying on legal principles,” Verapat Pariyawong, a lawyer and commentator, said in a Facebook posting. “The current situation is more or less a phenomenon of raw politics whereby the rule of law is conveniently stretched and stripped to fit a political goal.”
“用法律准则来解释当下的泰国政局已经讲不通了，”律师及评论员威拉帕·帕里亚旺(Verapat Pariyawong)在Facebook上说。“如今的情形或多或少是赤裸裸的政治手段造成的，法治规则已经为了达成政治目标，变得颠三倒四。”
On Monday, Ms. Yingluck appeared briefly before the National Anti-Corruption Commission, which is pursuing a case against her on the grounds that she did nothing to stop alleged corruption in a rice subsidy program. If the commission finds that there is a prima facie case, she will be suspended as prime minister, a decision that could come within weeks.
周一，英拉短暂地出现在国家反腐败委员会(National Anti-Corruption Commission)面前。该委员会正在调查，在一个大米收购项目中，她是否明知有人涉嫌贪腐，却无所作为。如果委员会认定此案件初步证据确凿，她将被暂停总理职务，而这一决定有可能会在未来的几周内做出。
Wicha Mahakhun, the member of the commission who is charged with handling the case, has sparred with Ms. Yingluck’s party before. He was appointed by the military in 2007 to rewrite the Constitution after the overthrow of Ms. Yingluck’s brother Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted as prime minister in a 2006 coup d'état.
威差·玛哈昆(Wicha Mahakhun)是委员会中负责调查此案件的人，他曾和英拉所在的政党有过争吵。2007年，英拉的哥哥他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)被赶下台后，威差曾受军方任命重写宪法。他信在2006年的一场军事政变中被剥夺总理职务。
The new Constitution was intended to blunt the governing party’s electoral power in part by making half of the Senate appointed by judges and the heads of agencies, instead of directly elected.
而新宪法规定，半数的上议院议员由法官和政府机构领导人指定，而不是通过直接选举的方式，这一做法有意地削弱了执政党的选举力量。
“We all know elections are evil,” Mr. Wicha said at the time, arguing that power must be transferred into the hands of judges rather than elected representatives, who he said had caused the country to “collapse.”
“我们都知道选举相当邪恶。”威猜那时说，他主张，权力必须要移交给法官，而不是选举出的代表，他说，这些代表让泰国陷入“崩溃”之中。
This power struggle between Ms. Yingluck — whose Pheu Thai party retains strong support among voters in the hinterland — and judges and agencies in Bangkok that want to blunt what they see as a destructive populist movement that encroaches on their power has been a central undercurrent of the five months of political stalemate.
英拉和曼谷的法官及政府机构之间的权力斗争，是长达五个月的政治僵局下暗藏的一股核心潜流。英拉的为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)在偏僻地区选民中依然保有强力的支持，而法官和政府机构却想削弱他们眼中的破坏性民粹主义运动，这场运动蚕食了他们手中的权力。
The prospect that courts and agencies will remove Ms. Yingluck, and potentially her entire cabinet, from power is being described in Thailand as a judicial coup.
在泰国，法院和政府机构意欲罢黜英拉，甚而推翻其整个内阁的前景被形容为一场司法政变。
Some protesters in recent months have pleaded for the army to step in — the military in Thailand has a long history of overthrowing governments — but analysts say the head of the army appears to be wary both of bloodshed and of foreign reaction to a coup.
近几个月，一些抗议者已恳请军队出手干预，而泰国军方也素有推翻政府的历史。不过分析人士表示，军方将领似乎对流血冲突和政变引发的海外反应心怀警惕。
Tensions escalated late last year, when the governing party passed a constitutional amendment restoring the Senate as a fully elected body. The Constitutional Court struck down the change, ruling in November that making the Senate fully elected was an attempt to “overthrow” democracy.
去年年末，紧张态势进一步加剧，当时执政党通过了一部宪法修正案，恢复了上议院所有席位均由投票产生的制度。宪法法院驳回了修正案，在11月裁定上议院席位全由投票产生的变动是企图“推翻”民主制度。
The Constitutional Court has also struck down an ambitious and costly infrastructure plan, partly because the judges ruled that high-speed trains, a major element of the plan, are not appropriate for Thailand. Critics say that is a judgment for legislators, not the courts.
宪法法院还驳回了一项雄心勃勃、耗资巨大的基建计划，部分原因是法官判定，作为该计划主要构成部分的高速铁路不适合泰国。批评者表示，这应由议员，而非法院来决定。
The activism of the courts has renewed a debate about double standards in Thai society. Government supporters point out that the leader of the protest movement, Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister, is wanted on murder charges for his role in a crackdown that left dozens of “red shirts” — supporters of Mr. Thaksin — dead in 2010. He has ignored numerous requests to appear in court.
法院的频繁动作重新点燃了关于泰国社会存在双重标准的讨论。政府的支持者指出，抗议活动领导人、前副总理素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)因其在2010年镇压“红衫军”的行动中扮演的角色而受到谋杀指控，红衫军是他信的支持者，那次行动导致了数十名人丧命。但他无视了法院的无数次要求，拒绝出庭。
Government supporters also question the priorities of the National Anti-Corruption Commission. The rice subsidy case has swiftly been pursued when other cases that appear to be obvious examples of corruption have languished.
政府的支持者还对国家反腐委员会(National Anti-Corruption Commission)处理案件的轻重缓急提出了质疑。委员会迅速对大米补贴案提出了诉讼，而其他显而易见的腐败案却被久久搁置，毫无进展。