BANGKOK — A Thai court on Wednesday ordered Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra removed from office, a highly divisive move and a victory for a powerful opposition movement that for six months has sought to overthrow the government.
曼谷——周三，泰国一家法院下令让总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)下台，这一判决引起了极大的争议。对于过去六个月来，一直寻求推翻政府的强大的反对运动，该判决代表着胜利。
The Constitutional Court ruled that Ms. Yingluck abused her power when she transferred a civil servant to another post more than three years ago. The court ordered her to step down immediately along with all members of her cabinet who were in office at the time of the transfer.
泰国宪法法院判决，英拉三年多前将一名公职人员调动到另一岗位的举动是滥用职权。宪法法院命令她和调职发生时在任的所有内阁成员下台。
Ms. Yingluck’s party called the decision a “new form of coup d’état.”
英拉的政党称该裁决是一种“新形式的政变”。
Leaders of Ms. Yingluck’s party quickly announced that a deputy prime minister, Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan, would become acting prime minister.
英拉所属政党的领导层很快就宣布，副总理尼瓦塔隆·汶颂派讪(Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan)将担任代总理。
It was the third time since 2006 that a prime minister representing the political movement founded by Ms. Yingluck’s brother Thaksin Shinawatra has been removed by court order. The movement, which has its power base in the provinces, has won every election since 2001 but has antagonized the Bangkok establishment, a struggle that is at the heart of Thailand’s eight years of political crisis.
这是自2006年以来，代表他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)建立的政治运动的总理，第三次被法庭下令解职。他信·西那瓦是英拉的哥哥。他信的政治运动植根于地方省份，自2001年以来，在每一次选举中都赢得了胜利，然而却引起了曼谷权力阶层的反感。在泰国过去八年的政治危机中，这场斗争都处于核心位置。
Thailand for decades was considered an island of pluralism, freedom and strong economic growth — especially in contrast with its neighbors — but its economy has suffered during the recent turmoil, and leaders have warned of civil war.
几十年来，泰国都被认为是一个自由、多元并存，并且经济增长强劲的地方，尤其是相对于其邻国而言。然而在最近的动荡之中，泰国经济受到了冲击，领导人则警告会发生内战。
The court’s decision, which highlights its overtly political role, throws into question elections announced for July 20, which the governing party was expected to win because of its strong support in the northern provinces.
法庭的裁决突显了它扮演的政治角色。这一裁决也让宣布于7月20日进行的选举陷入疑问，届时执政党料将获胜，因为它在北部省份有极强的支持。
Bhokin Bhalakula, a member of the governing party, Pheu Thai, told reporters at the party’s headquarters that the court decision was part of a “new form of coup d’état in order to establish a new regime and destroy the hope of the people who want to see the country progress democratically and with rule of law.”
执政党为泰党(Pheu Thai)官员颇钦·蓬拉军(Bhokin Bhalakula)在该党党部对记者表示，法庭的判决属于“一种新形式的政变，意在建立一个新政权，破坏民众渴盼国家在民主和法治上取得进步的希望”。
Mr. Niwattumrong, the commerce minister who was named acting prime minister, is a former executive in Mr. Thaksin’s corporate empire. His appointment is likely to exacerbate tensions with the antigovernment movement, which wants to eradicate Mr. Thaksin’s influence from the country.
被任命为代总理的商务部长尼瓦塔隆，曾在他信拥有的企业集团中担任高管。他的任命可能会加剧与反政府运动之间的紧张关系，后者希望在泰国消除他信的势力。
Verapat Pariyawong, a lawyer and prominent commentator, said the court’s removal of Ms. Yingluck raised the prospect of more violence. At least 20 people have been killed in political violence since the governing party set off protests in November by trying to ram through a bill giving political amnesty to Mr. Thaksin that would erase corruption cases against him and allow him to return from self-imposed exile.
律师及著名评论员威拉帕·帕里亚旺(Verapat Pariyawong)表示，法院对英拉的罢免可能会引发更多的暴力冲突。去年11月，执政党试图强势通过一项可以为他信提供政治豁免的法案，该法案将撤销他信面临的腐败指控，允许他放弃自我流放回到泰国。随后，示威爆发，迄今已有至少20人死于政治暴力。
The antigovernment movement, which is armed, continues to block access to the prime minister’s office and a number of other government facilities in Bangkok. Pro-government “red shirts,” who in the past have also been allied with shadowy armed groups, are planning a show of force on the outskirts of Bangkok on Saturday.
携带武器的反政府运动仍然在曼谷围困着总理的办公室，以及若干座其他政府设施。亲政府的“红衫军”计划周六在曼谷郊区举行示威，“红衫军”过去曾与身份不明的武装团体有过合作。
Highlighting concerns about violence, the Thai news media reported Wednesday that for security reasons, the judges and staff members of the Constitutional Court would not return to work until Tuesday.
泰国新闻媒体周三报道，出于安全原因，宪法法院的法官和职员直到下周二才会恢复工作，显示出人们对暴力的担忧。
Ms. Yingluck, 46, was the country’s first female prime minister but was loathed by the opposition and called a proxy for Mr. Thaksin, who has lived abroad since a 2006 military coup and a subsequent conviction for abuse of power in a highly politicized trial.
今年46岁的英拉是泰国第一位女总理，反对派厌恶她，称她是他信的代理人。他信自2006年发生军事政变，并在高度政治化的审判中，被判处滥用职权以来，就一直生活在国外。
“I am so sorry that I no longer have the opportunity to serve the people,” Ms. Yingluck said on national television after the court decision, adding that she was proud that she became prime minister “through democratic means.”
法庭做出判决后，英拉在全国电视上说，“我很遗憾不再有机会服务于民众了。”她还表示，自己“通过民主手段”成为总理，因而感到自豪。
Ms. Yingluck could face further legal proceedings on charges that she mismanaged the government’s costly subsidy program for rice farmers, charges that could lead to a prison term and a ban from politics. The country’s countercorruption commission is to decide Thursday whether to press the case.
英拉可能还会面临进一步的法庭指控，罪名是她对成本高昂的政府稻农补贴项目管理不善。这样的指控可能会导致她入狱，并被禁止参与政治。泰国的反腐败委员会将于周四决定是否推动立案。
The court’s verdict was unanimous and was reached with unusual speed. It was delivered just one day after Ms. Yingluck gave evidence at the court.
法院的判决是一致做出的，而且速度快得异乎寻常，在英拉向法院作证一天后，就宣判了。
The antigovernment movement, which is supported by some of Thailand’s wealthiest families, has called for an appointed prime minister and described Wednesday’s court verdict as a partial victory. It turned to the courts after unsuccessfully trying to force Ms. Yingluck out.
反政府运动得到了泰国一些最富有的家族的支持。反对派呼吁另外任命一名总理，还形容周三的法庭判决只是部分的胜利。反对派是在尝试逼迫英拉下台未果之后，才诉诸于法庭的。
The grounds for Ms. Yingluck’s ouster were that she did not give sufficient justification when she transferred the secretary general of the National Security Council, Thawil Pliensri, to another post in 2011. The court said that Ms. Yingluck was within her rights to remove Mr. Thawil but that the move was rushed, intended to free up another job for a relative of Ms. Yingluck’s and not done according to “moral principles.”
英拉遭解职的理由是，她在2011年将国家安全委员会秘书长他汶·批恩西(Thawil Pliensri)调任其他职务时，没有给出充分的理由。法院表示，英拉有权将他汶解职，但动作过于仓促，且目的是空出一个职位，交给英拉的亲戚，英拉的做法不符合“道德原则”。
In a stark symbol of the dysfunction of the Thai government, Mr. Thawil was reinstated, on court order, last week, and he told the news media that even while in office, he would continue to support the movement to remove the government.
上周，根据法庭的命令他汶官复原职。但他汶对新闻媒体表示，即使在任，他也会继续支持推翻政府的运动。这清楚地显示了泰国政府的功能紊乱。