BANGKOK — Antigovernment protests that have left five people dead and several hundred injured over the past week in Thailand paused for a hiatus on Thursday to allow celebrations of the 86th birthday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej.
曼谷——泰国过去一周的反政府抗议活动已经导致五人死亡，数百人受伤。本周四，为了让国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)的86岁寿辰庆典顺利进行，抗议者暂停了示威活动。
The king, who has intervened in previous political standoffs during his 67 years on the throne, did not directly address the protests in a short speech to his subjects, saying only that Thais should “help each other for the national interest.”
普密蓬国王已经在位67年，过去曾对泰国的政治僵局进行过干预。在本次庆典上，他做的简短发言并没有直接提到抗议活动，只说泰国人应该“为了国家利益互相帮助”。
Protesters have vowed to overthrow the government and rid the country of its most influential political family.
示威者誓言要推翻政府，拔除该国最有影响力的政治家族。
Ultra-monarchists, frustrated with grinding cycles of political turmoil, have in recent years advocated replacing the country’s parliamentary democracy with a government of technocrats appointed by the king. A similar plea was made in recent days by the protesters, who have occupied major government buildings for more than a week.
坚定支持国王的人士，由于难以忍受周而复始的政治动荡，近年来主张由国王任命技术官僚组成政府，取代议会民主制。而已经占领政府主要建筑物逾一周的示威者，近日也提出了类似的请求。
But the king has rejected this idea in the past, and his appearance on Thursday underlined his frailty. He arrived at the televised ceremony, held in a hall of his palace in the beach resort of Hua Hin, in his padded wheelchair and sat impassively as Thai officials delivered their oaths of allegiance using the highly formal vocabulary reserved for addressing the monarch.
但在过去，国王拒绝过这个请求，而且本周四他的健康状况显得堪忧。庆典仪式在位于度假胜地华欣海滩的宫殿大厅里举行，由电视进行转播。国王坐在软垫轮椅上，泰国官员用非常正式的、对君主讲话时使用的词汇对他效忠宣誓时，他面无表情。
The king’s breathing appeared labored, and when it was his turn to speak, he read very slowly from a piece of paper, pronouncing each word in a raspy voice.
国王显得呼吸吃力，当轮到他发言时，他拿着一张纸，以非常缓慢的语速和刺耳的声音一字一句地念起来。
“Our country has been peaceful for a long time because we are united in our country and perform duties for the sake of the national interest,” he said, pausing several times as he read.
“我们的国家保持了长期和平，因为我们团结一致，为了国家的利益恪尽职守，”他念的时候停顿了几次。
In a sign of his infirmity, the sentence took a full two minutes to read. The camera frequently cut away from the king during the pauses, showing stone-faced political and military leaders in the hall.
这句话花了整整两分钟时间才念完，显示他的身体状况欠佳。在他停顿的时候，镜头频繁从他身上切离，显示大厅里面色凝重的的政治和军事领导人。
Also in attendance were Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn and other important members of the royal family. But Queen Sirikit, who is also ailing, was absent.
出席仪式的还有王储玛哈·哇集拉隆功(Maha Vajiralongkorn)和王室其他重要成员。但是同样身体欠佳的王后诗丽吉(Sirikit)没有到场。
As the king was being wheeled out of the hall, a crowd of his subjects outside wept and repeatedly shouted, “Long live the king!”
当国王坐在轮椅上被推出大厅时，外面一大群臣民哭泣着反复高呼“国王万岁！”
The king moved to Hua Hin this year after spending four years in a hospital in Bangkok. He lives in a palace named Far From Worries.
国王在曼谷一家医院住了四年之后，今年搬到了华欣，住在一座名为忘忧宫的宫殿里。
Suthep Thaugsuban, the protest leader, has vowed to restart the demonstrations on Friday in Bangkok. In an interview published Thursday in The Bangkok Post, Mr. Suthep said he would lead a “peaceful coup of the people.”
抗议领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)誓言本周五将恢复在曼谷的示威活动。在《曼谷邮报》(Bangkok Post)周四刊登的一篇采访中，素贴说，他将领导一场“和平的人民政变”。
Protesters have occupied the Finance Ministry building and a large government complex and have laid siege to numerous other government buildings and cut power to others.
示威者占领了财政部大楼和一座大型政府设施，并包围了大量其他政府建筑物，还切断了一些建筑物的电源。
The goal of the protests is to rid the country of the influence of Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister who was forced out by the military in a 2006 coup. Mr. Thaksin’s youngest sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, is the current prime minister. She and other members of the government were in attendance at the king’s birthday ceremony.
这次抗议活动的目的是消除泰国前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)在国内的影响力，他信在2006年的政变中受军方逼迫下台。他信最小的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)是泰国现任总理。她和政府的其他成员出席了国王的寿辰庆典。