BANGKOK — The head of Thailand’s army declared what he described as nationwide martial law early Tuesday and urged protesters who have paralyzed the government and blocked elections to “stop their movement.” The order also appeared to apply to pro-government demonstrators who are leading a separate protest.
曼谷——周二清晨，泰国的陆军总司令宣布实施“全国性的戒严令”，敦促那些使政府瘫痪、选举受阻的抗议者“终止他们的运动”。戒严令似乎同样适用于那些进行亲政府游行的示威者。
In a country where the army has staged more than a dozen coups in recent decades it was not immediately clear what degree of control the military planned to take this time. The presence of soldiers on the streets of Bangkok was relatively sparse early Tuesday.
在泰国，军队近几十年里发动了十几次政变，而关于此次军方计划掌握多大控制权的情况，尚未立即显现。周二清早，曼谷街头的士兵相对稀少。
“The army intends to bring peace to the beloved country of all Thais as soon as possible,” said Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, the head of the army, in a nationally televised speech broadcast at 6:30 a.m. “We would like to urge people from every group to stop their movement in order to quickly find a sustainable solution for the country.”
“陆军计划尽快给全体泰国人热爱的国家带来和平，”陆军总司令巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)在清晨6点30分面向全国发表电视讲话称。“我们想要敦促各个团体终止他们的运动，以便快速为国家找到可持续的解决方案。”
General Prayuth said martial law had been imposed “in order to keep peace and order efficiently and to bring back peace to the people.”
巴育称，之所以实施戒严令，“是为了有效地维护和平与秩序，并让民众重享和平。”
Soldiers went to television stations before dawn Tuesday, informing them that they should broadcast the speech.
周二凌晨时分，军人前往各电视台，通知它们应播放此次演讲。
In his speech, General Prayuth cited “ill-willed people who created violence by using weapons of war” for his decision. More than 25 people have been killed in political violence since the protests began six months ago.
在讲话中，巴育提及，“居心不良的人使用战争武器来制造暴力”，并以此作为他此番决策的理由。自抗议活动六个月前开始以来，已有逾25人死于政治暴力活动。
A movement to oust the government has the backing of the Bangkok establishment and is seeking to put in place an appointed prime minister. Led by a former opposition politician, Suthep Thaugsuban, the movement has obstructed elections and is seeking the removal of the country’s caretaker government.The military has refused to take sides between the protest movement and the caretaker government.
以推翻政府为目标的运动拥有曼谷权势集团的支持，他们目前正酝酿让己方任命的总理上台。这场运动的领导人为前反对派政治人物素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)。他们一直阻止选举，并在寻求推翻泰国的看守政府。军方则拒绝在抗议运动与看守政府之间站队。
The antigovernment movement has shut down government buildings and continues to occupy the prime minister’s office. The courts have issued numerous favorable rulings to the movement, including the removal of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra earlier this month and an order barring the dispersal of the protests.
反政府运动让多栋政府大楼关闭，并继续占领着总理办公室。法院此前已做出了诸多有利于该运动的裁决，包括本月早些时候推翻了总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)的政府，以及下令禁止驱散抗议者。
The imposition of a state of emergency earlier this year failed to quell violence and was withdrawn.
泰国今年早些时候施行的紧急状态未能平息暴力活动，最终被收回。
Akanat Promphan, a spokesman for the protest movement, posted a message on his Facebook page on Tuesday that said the protesters would “temporarily suspend our movement today” because of the imposition of martial law. But it was unclear if they would disperse.
抗议运动的发言人阿卡纳特·奔潘(Akanat Promphan)周二在自己的Facebook页面上发帖称，由于施行戒严，抗议者将“在今天暂停我们的运动”。不过，外界尚不清楚他们是否会解散。
The movement’s satellite television station showed protest leaders continuing to address crowds from their stage across from the United Nations building in Bangkok. The movement is seeking the eradication from politics of the country’s most powerful political family, which is led by Ms. Yingluck’s brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a former business tycoon. Mr. Thaksin was removed by the military in a 2006 military coup but his party, which draws its strength from the provinces, has defied the traditional elites in Bangkok. The party has won every election in the country since 2001.
该运动旗下的卫星电视台显示，抗议活动领导人继续在曼谷联合国大厦对面的讲台上向人群发表演说。这场运动的目的是将泰国势力最为强大的政治家庭从政坛铲除出去。这一家庭以英拉的兄长、前商界大亨他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)为首。2006年，他信本人的统治被军方发动的政变推翻，但他的政党从地方汲取力量，一直在与曼谷的传统权势集团对抗。自2001年以来，该党赢得了泰国所有大选的胜利。