BANGKOK — Tolerance, the Thais have learned, is good for business.
曼谷——泰国人明白，宽容对生意有好处。
In recent advertising and marketing campaigns, the government here in “the land of smiles” has actively gone after categories of tourists that for reasons of political sensitivity or outright discrimination are shunned in some neighboring countries.
在最近的广告和市场推广活动中，这个“微笑之邦”的政府积极争取某些游客人群，而泰国的一些邻国出于政治敏感性或公然歧视，将这些游客拒之门外。
It is the only Asian country, travel industry analysts say, that has a government-sponsored campaign — “Go Thai. Be Free.” — aimed at gay and lesbian travelers.
旅游业分析人士说，泰国是唯一有政府赞助发起吸引男女同性恋游客的推广活动的亚洲国家，该活动的名称是，“到泰国去。自由自在。”
Thailand, which is overwhelmingly Buddhist, is also marketing itself to Muslims as a place where food prepared according to Islamic precepts is readily available and where “halal spas” offer separate facilities for women and men. All the leading shopping malls and the beach resort city of Pattaya have Muslim prayer rooms — a far cry from the widespread anti-Muslim feelings in neighboring Myanmar.
虽然泰国人绝大部分是佛教徒，但该国也积极吸引穆斯林游客，称泰国到处都能吃到按照伊斯兰规矩制作的食品，还有“清真温泉”设施，让男性和女性分开享用。所有的一流商场，以及海滩度假城市芭堤雅都设有穆斯林祈祷室，这一点和邻国缅甸普遍存在的反穆斯林情绪大相径庭。
The country’s efforts to welcome a broad array of travelers dovetail with longstanding laissez-faire attitudes and traditions of hospitality. But inclusiveness also pays: tourist arrivals have surged in recent years, notably from many predominantly Muslim countries, and the 22 million visitors last year were double the level of a decade ago. Tourism earned the country more than $31 billion last year, according to government statistics.
泰国全方位欢迎各类游客的努力，与该国长期的自由放任态度和热情好客的传统相吻合。不过，这种包容也获得了回报：近些年，前来泰国的游客人数激增，尤为显眼的是，其中有不少游客来自许多以穆斯林为主的国家，去年，泰国游客人数达到了2200万，比10年前翻了一番。根据政府数据，去年，旅游业给该国带来了超过310亿美元（约合1898亿元人民币）的收入。
“We live in a country that is open and pretty liberal — I can’t think of a market that we wouldn’t welcome,” said Wisoot Buachoom, the director of the Tourism Authority of Thailand’s office in the northern city of Chiang Mai, which has seen a rise in Muslim travelers in recent years.
泰国国家旅游局(Tourism Authority of Thailand)清迈办事处主任威素·博楚姆(Wisoot Buachoom)说，“我们居住在一个开放、而且相当自由的国家——我想不出有哪个旅游市场是我们不欢迎的。”清迈是泰国北部城市，近年这里穆斯林游客出现了增长。
Thailand’s campaigns might not raise eyebrows in the West. But among its immediate neighbors, laws against homosexuality and religious or ethnic hostilities keep some tourists away.
西方国家也许对泰国的活动不以为意。不过，在泰国的邻国中，反同性恋法律、以及宗教或种族敌意让一些游客望而却步。
Malaysia and Indonesia, both Muslim-majority countries, bar Israelis from visiting for political reasons. Thailand, by contrast, has long been one of the most popular destinations for Israeli travelers, with 120,000 Israelis visiting Thailand in 2012.
马来西亚和印度尼西亚都是穆斯林占人口大多数的国家。两国出于政治原因，禁止以色列人到访。与之相反，泰国长期以来一直是最受以色列游客欢迎的旅游目的地之一，2012年，有12万以色列人游览了泰国。
Among Thailand’s Southeast Asian neighbors — Brunei, Malaysia, Myanmar and Singapore — some or all forms of sexual contact between men are illegal, although the laws are loosely or selectively enforced. In Malaysia, the leader of the political opposition, Anwar Ibrahim, has been put on trial twice for sodomy — and twice acquitted.
在泰国的东南亚邻国中——包括文莱、马来西亚、缅甸和新加坡——男性之间发生某些形式或所有形式的性接触是非法的，尽管这些法律在执行中比较宽松，或只是选择性的执行。在马来西亚，反对派政治领袖安华·依布拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)就曾被以鸡奸罪名审判了两次，两次都被判无罪。
In response to questions sent by e-mail, Malaysia’s tourism authority said it welcomed tourists “without any hesitation, regardless their sexuality.” But in the same e-mail, the tourism official, who gave her name only as Nadia, said, “Malaysia, as an Islamic country, is against the homosexuality.”
在用电子邮件回答记者的问题时，马来西亚旅游主管部门说，“不管游客有什么性倾向，”该国“都会毫不犹豫地欢迎他们”。不过，只说自己名叫纳迪娅的旅游业官员在同一封电子邮件里说，“作为一个伊斯兰教国家，马来西亚反对同性恋。”
Thailand’s gay and lesbian campaign, which began two years ago from the Thai tourism promotion office in New York, features a Web site that offers advice to gay travelers, links to a gay travel blog and a promotional video that features gay couples traveling around Thailand and intones, “Go for the freedom.”
两年前开始的泰国男女同性恋游客推广活动，发端于泰国驻纽约旅游推广办事处，该活动有一个网站，为同性恋游客提供建议，还有一个同性恋旅游博客的链接和一段推广视频，视频中的同性恋伴侣在泰国各地旅游，还有画外音宣告，“寻找自由”。
“Thailand welcomes the gay community,” says a message displayed at the end of the video.
视频末尾展现的文字信息是，“泰国欢迎同性恋群体”。
“We go after the affluent gay traveler,” said Steve Johnson, a marketing manager who oversees the Thai government’s gay and lesbian campaign from its New York tourism office. Gay men and lesbians often have high levels of disposable income, he said.
在纽约办事处策划泰国政府面向男女同性恋游客的推广活动的市场推广经理史蒂夫·约翰逊(Steve Johnson)说，“我们瞄准富裕的同性恋游客。”他说，男女同性恋者往往有很高的可支配收入。
There are no statistics on the number of gay travelers in Thailand, but a survey carried out by Boutique, a London-based agency specializing in gay marketing, rated Thailand as the “hottest destination” for 2013, ahead of the United States and Argentina, which were ranked second and third.
目前没有统计数据显示有多少同性恋者到泰国旅游，不过，专业从事男同性恋市场推广活动的伦敦代理机构Boutique的一项调查显示，泰国是2013年“最热门的同性恋旅游目的地”，超过位列第二和第三位的美国和阿根廷。
Uwern Jong, managing director of Boutique, said a conservative estimate for the value of gay tourism in Thailand last year was $1.6 billion. He pointed out that in February, in honor of Valentine’s Day, the immigration authorities established a faster lane for couples at Bangkok’s main international airport, Suvarnabhumi. The policy specifically included same-sex couples, he said.
Boutique的董事总经理钟文(Uwern Jong)说，根据一项保守估计，去年，泰国同性恋旅游业的价值达到了16亿美元。他指出，今年2月，为了庆祝情人节，泰国移民局在曼谷主要的国际机场素万那普机场(Suvarnabhumi)为情侣们开辟了一条速度更快的通道。他说，该政策特别将同性伴侣也包括在内。
A video, “Muslim Friendly Thailand,” posted on Facebook by the Thai tourism authority’s Dubai office, which was set up in 2007, shows Muslim families touring the country, shopping, visiting amusement parks and enjoying Middle Eastern-style food.
2007年设立的泰国国家旅游局迪拜办事处在其Facebook账户上张贴了一段视频，名为《对穆斯林友好的泰国》(Muslim Friendly Thailand)，视频显示了穆斯林家庭在泰国旅游、购物、前往游乐场和享受中东美食的情景。
Thailand’s efforts to lure Muslim travelers stand in contrast with anti-Muslim sentiments in Myanmar, which after years of military rule is trying to revive its tourism industry. Rampaging Buddhist mobs in Myanmar have killed scores of Muslims in a number of towns and villages over the past year, and immigration officials at the airport in Yangon, Myanmar’s largest city, are “monitoring” visitors from Muslim countries, according to a report in the Myanmar news media in mid-July.
泰国吸引穆斯林游客的努力和缅甸的反穆斯林情绪形成了鲜明的对比，在经历多年军事统治后，缅甸正在设法重振国内的旅游业。过去一年里，失控的佛教徒暴民在缅甸的许多乡镇村庄杀死了大量穆斯林，同时，根据缅甸新闻媒体7月中旬的一篇报道，在缅甸最大的城市仰光，移民官员在机场“监视着”来自穆斯林国家的游客。
Like Myanmar, Thailand has struggled with violence between Muslims and Buddhists. A Muslim insurgency in its far-south provinces has left 5,000 people dead over the past decade.
和缅甸一样，泰国也在艰难应对穆斯林与佛教徒之间的暴力冲突。过去10年里，泰国南部偏远省份的一场穆斯林武装叛乱已造成5000人丧生。
But Fazal Bahardeen, chief executive of Crescentrating, a company based in Singapore that rates destinations on convenience and friendliness to Muslims, says Thailand has been successful in convincing the outside world that the insurgency is being carried out by a small and relatively isolated group.
不过，新加坡新月评级公司(Crescentrating)首席执行官法扎勒·巴哈迪(Fazal Bahardeen)说，泰国已成功地说服外界相信，发动叛乱的是一个相对孤立的小团伙。新月评级公司根据穆斯林游客得到的便利和友好程度，对旅游目的地打分。
The company ranks Thailand as the third-best “halal-friendly holiday destination” of countries outside the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. The survey is based on the availability of halal food, prayer facilities and other manifestations of sensitivity to Muslim needs. (Singapore, which has a sizable Muslim minority, was the top-rated destination, followed by Bosnia.)
该公司把泰国评为伊斯兰合作组织(Organization of Islamic Cooperation)成员国以外排名第三的“对穆斯林友好的度假目的地”。调查依据的是当地是否供应清真食品、是否有祈祷设施、是否对穆斯林的需求展现出其他敏锐反应。（穆斯林人数可观的新加坡被排在榜首，波斯尼亚位列第二。）
Thais are “inherently hospitable people,” Mr. Bahardeen said.
巴哈迪说，泰国人“天生热情好客”。
“I keep telling tourist organizations: it’s Marketing 101,” he said. “You’re spending your own money,” he said of foreign travelers. “Why would you want to go to a place that doesn’t welcome you?”
他说，“我不断地对旅游组织说：这就是《销售秘籍101》(Marketing 101)的做法。他在提到外国游客时说，“你在花自己的钱。为什么你要去一个不欢迎你的地方呢？”
Maor Engel, an Israeli graphic designer with the Bangkok Tourist Center, where about 90 percent of clients are Israeli, said: “In other countries, they will ask you where are you from and why are you here or your sexual orientation. Here they don’t care. They just don’t care.
曼谷旅游中心(Bangkok Tourist Center)的美术设计师、以色列人马奥尔·恩格尔(Maor Engel)说，“在其他国家，他们会问你来自哪里，问你为什么要来，或者问你的性取向。这里的人不在乎。他们就是不在乎这些。”曼谷旅游中心有90%左右的客户是以色列人。
“You just come here with money, that’s it,” he said. “That’s what they care about.”
他说，“你只要带着钱来到这里，就这么简单。这才是他们所关心的。”