BANGKOK — Hundreds of thousands of Thais were blocked from voting on Sunday as antigovernment demonstrators obstructed polling places in Bangkok and southern Thailand in a campaign to suspend democracy and replace Parliament with an unelected “people’s council.”
曼谷——周日，反政府示威者封堵了曼谷及泰国南部的投票点，要求中止民主制度，以非民选的“人民委员会”取代议会，数十万泰国人因此受阻，无法投票。
In a day of sometimes-tense confrontations between protesters and would-be voters, one protest leader was shot dead by an unknown assailant and 11 people were wounded, according to Bangkok’s emergency services. Suthin Tharatin, a leader of one faction of the protesters, was shot as he tried to block a polling place on the outskirts of Bangkok, heightening fears of more widespread violence.
曼谷紧急情况部门透露，抗议者与投票者当天时而出现紧张的对峙，一名抗议活动领导者被一名身份不明的袭击者击毙，另有11人受伤。抗议者中一个派系的领导人素汀·塔拉丁(Suthin Tharatin)在试图封锁曼谷郊区一个投票点时被枪击，加剧了人们对发生更大范围暴力活动的担忧。
Critics of the protest movement, which is battling to purge the country of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and her influential family, called Sunday’s shutdown of polling places a major blow to democracy in Thailand and a possible portent of further moves to seize power from the government.
抗议活动的目的是设法将现任总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)及其势力极大的家族驱逐出泰国政坛。但抗议活动的批评者称，周日封锁投票点的行为是对泰国民主的重大打击，可能预示着抗议者将进一步采取行动，从政府手中夺取政权。
More than two million people out of a total electorate of about 48 million were registered for Sunday’s advance voting, which was held for those unable to vote in the Feb. 2 general election.
泰国共有大约4800万名选民，其中200多万人注册参加周日的提前投票。无法在2月2日的普选中投票的选民可以此时投票。
“This is the day when Thailand and the rest of the world saw the true face of the protest movement,” said Sunai Phasuk, a researcher in Thailand with Human Rights Watch, an advocacy group based in New York. “They are using thuggery to disrupt the voting process.”
“这一天，泰国及世界其他国家看到了这场抗议活动的真面目。”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)驻泰国的高级研究员苏奈·帕苏克(Sunai Phasuk)说。“他们通过暴行破坏投票过程。”人权观察组织是一家总部位于纽约的倡导组织。
Mr. Sunai said the protesters’ aim of fighting graft did not justify blocking people from voting.
苏奈表示，抗议者反腐败的目的不能成为阻止人们投票的正当理由。
“You cannot battle corruption by stopping democracy,” he said.
他说，“你不能通过终止民主制度来打击腐败。”
Suthep Thaugsuban, the main leader of the protests, told his supporters that Sunday was “just a teaser.”
抗议活动主要领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)对其支持者表示，周日“只是一场预演”。
“The real movie will be even more decisive,” he said, apparently referring to election day on Feb. 2.
他说，“真正的电影将会更具有决定性。”他指的似乎是2月2日的选举。
In a vivid illustration of the divisions in Thailand, citizens in the most populous regions of the country, the north and northeast, were able to vote unimpeded on Sunday. But in Bangkok, where the protest movement draws its strength among the affluent and the middle class, all 50 polling places had been shut by protesters before the normal 3 p.m. closing time.
周日，在泰国人口最多的北部及东北部民众可以顺利投票。但在曼谷，抗议活动获得了富人及中产阶级的支持，在下午3点正常关闭之前，所有50个投票点都已被迫关闭。上述例子生动体现了泰国的分裂状态。
The blocking of polling places was carried out by bands of protesters, sometimes only numbering a few dozen people, who padlocked gates and intimidated election officials and voters.
对投票点进行封锁的是一群群的抗议者，有时只有几十人，他们给大门上锁，还会威胁选举官员和选民。
The protesters’ ability to disrupt the electoral process showed the weakness of the Thai government, which has been besieged by street demonstrations for the past two months. Protesters have shut down government offices and occupied major intersections in the city.
抗议者有能力破坏选举过程反映出泰国政府的软弱。在过去两个月中，泰国政府因街头示威活动陷入困境。抗议者已经关闭了各个政府机构，并占领了曼谷的主要十字路口。
Although the government declared a state of emergency in Bangkok and surrounding areas last week, it has been reluctant to use force against protesters, who the government says are backed by powerful forces in Thai society. The military has been ambivalent in its support of the government, and the commander of the army has not ruled out a coup. The military has overthrown a dozen governments in the country’s modern history.
虽然泰国政府上周宣布曼谷及周边地区进入紧急状态，但政府不愿对抗议者使用暴力。泰国政府称抗议者获得了泰国社会中强大势力的支持。军方对于是否支持政府一直摇摆不定，军队指挥官也没有排除发动政变的可能性。在泰国现代史上，军方曾发动过十几次推翻政府的政变。
Among those unable to vote on Sunday was Pruettha Jampathong, 30, a human resources manager at a Thai company.
泰国一家公司的人力资源经理、30岁的普莱他·贾帕颂(Pruettha Jampathong)周日就没能投票。
“I consider myself a very tolerant person,” Mr. Pruettha said after being turned away from a polling place where protesters were blocking the entrance. “But this is very unfair. They violated my political rights.”
普莱他去一个投票点投票时，抗议者堵住了入口，他不得不离开。“我感觉自己是个特别宽容的人，”普莱他说。“但这非常不公平。他们侵犯了我的政治权利。”
He added, “An election is the only scientific way to prove who is the majority in the country.”
他还说，“选举是证明谁是这个国家多数派的唯一科学的方法。”
In some districts, would-be voters stood outside closed polling places, chanting, “Election! Election!”
在一些街区，想投票的人站在被关闭的投票点外，齐声高喊，“选举！选举！”
Analysts say there are no angels in the power struggle between the governing party and its opponents. The main targets of the protests, Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister and billionaire tycoon, have led the most successful political movement in Thai history, one that has won the loyalty of millions of voters by introducing universal health care and making government offices more responsive and efficient. Protesters accuse them of an unhealthy dominance of business and politics and of raising the level of corruption.
分析人士表示，在这场执政党和反对派之间的权力斗争中，没有人是天使。抗议的主要目标是英拉和她的兄长、泰国前总理及亿万富豪他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)，他们曾领导了泰国历史上最成功的政治运动，通过推广普遍的医疗保障，让政府部门更积极地回应民众诉求，并提高其办事效率，赢得了数百万选民的忠诚。抗议者指责他们垄断商业和政治，造成不良影响，并加剧了腐败。
The protesters are led by Mr. Suthep, a former deputy prime minister and career politician who during his time in power was embroiled in numerous scandals. The government says Mr. Suthep and his allies, the opposition Democrat Party, are leading a naked attempt to grab power because they cannot win elections.
抗议领导者素贴是名职业政客，曾担任过泰国副总理，在任职期间，他卷入了数起丑闻。泰国政府称素贴和他的盟友、反对党民主党，正在领导一场赤裸裸的夺权斗争，因为他们无法在选举获胜。
On Sunday, Ongart Klampaiboon, the deputy leader of the Democrat Party, which is boycotting the elections, referred to the voting as a “waste” and warned of further “violent confrontations” if the elections go ahead as scheduled on Feb. 2.
周日，抵制选举的民主党的副主席翁阿·克兰派汶(Ongart Klampaiboon)称投票是“浪费”，还警告称，如果选举如期在2月2日举行，将出现更多的“暴力对抗”。
Every other major political party in Thailand is contesting the elections.
泰国其他所有大党都将参加竞选。
By blocking the elections, protesters say they will create a power vacuum that will force the governing party to resign and allow for the people’s council, which they say will reform the country.
抗议者称，他们阻挠选举，可以制造出一个权力真空，迫使执政党下台，让人民委员会接管政权。他们表示这样一个机构能在泰国进行改革。
In addition to protesters, the government faces significant opposition from within government agencies, including the Election Commission, which it accuses of dragging its feet. The commission has repeatedly asked the government to postpone the voting and at the commission’s urging, the country’s Constitutional Court ruled Friday that it could be delayed if the commission and the government agreed on a new date, a decision that legal scholars say appears to contradict a mandate in the Constitution to hold the elections within 60 days of Parliament’s dissolution.
除抗议者外，政府还面临着来自其内部机关的强烈反对，其中就包括选举委员会。政府指责选举委员会是在拖后腿。选举委员会曾反复要求政府推迟选举，在它的敦促之下，泰国宪法法院周五裁定，如果委员会和政府就举行投票的新日期达成一致，便可以推迟选举。而法学学者称，这一决定似乎违背了宪法中的一项规定：议会解散后的60天内，必须举行选举。
Surapong Tovichakchaikul, a deputy prime minister, on Sunday accused the election commission of “playing tricks” and said the elections would be held as scheduled.
副总理素拉蓬·多威差猜恭(Surapong Tovichakchaikul)周日指责选举委员会“玩花招”，并表示选举将如期进行。
He questioned why the commission had not called on security forces to guard the polling places and ensure that voting went ahead.
他质问选举委员会为何没有派出安保力量守卫投票点，确保投票顺利进行。
Even if the elections proceed, the new Parliament will not reach the required minimum number of members because protesters blocked the registration of candidates in many provinces in southern Thailand. More than two dozen by-elections will need to be held before Parliament can elect a new government.
即便选举能顺利进行，新产生的议会中议员的人数也无法达到规定要求的最低人数，因为在泰国南部很多省份，由于抗议者阻扰，许多候选人无法登记。可能还需要举行20多场补选，议会才能投票产生新内阁。