BANGKOK — His legacy is inseparable from the past decade of political tumult in Thailand, but high school students will not find the name Thaksin Shinawatra in the history textbooks that the country’s military junta recently ordered schools to use.
曼谷——他的名字与泰国过去10年间的政治动荡密不可分，然而，在军政府近期下令采用的历史教科书中，中学生将不会看到“他信·西那瓦”(Thaksin Shinawatra)这几个字。
Mr. Thaksin’s name was scrubbed from the book by the Ministry of Education, said the textbook’s author, Thanom Anarmwat.
教科书的编撰者他侬·阿南瓦(Thanom Anarmwat)表示，教育部将他信的名字从书中抹去了。
“The officials at the ministry just deleted it, cut it,” he said.
“部里的官员直接把这部分删除、去掉了，”他说。
Mr. Thaksin (pronounced TAHK-sin) elicits love or hate in Thailand and not much in between.
在泰国，人们对他信非爱即恨，基本没什么中间情绪。
To members of the Bangkok establishment who supported the May military coup, which ousted an elected government backed by Mr. Thaksin, he is seen as venal, corrupt and, perhaps most of all, a threat to their power.
在支持军方5月政变的曼谷权贵阶层看来，他贪赃枉法、腐化堕落，或许最重要的是，还威胁到他们的权势。通过这次政变，得到他信支持的民选政府被推翻。
To his supporters, Mr. Thaksin was the first politician in Thailand to focus on the needs of voters outside Bangkok and gain their allegiance by delivering universal health care, microloans and more efficient government services.
在追随者看来，他信是泰国首位关注到曼谷以外选民需求的政界人士，并且通过让全民医保、小额贷款和更有效率的政府服务成为可能而赢得了他们的爱戴。
The generals, who have seized power twice in the past decade, say they are not taking sides. But in addition to abolishing elections and banning political activities, they have purged the bureaucracy of those seen to be loyal to Mr. Thaksin.
过去10年间，军方将领两次出手夺权。他们表示并未选边站队。可是，除了废止选举结果并禁止政治活动，他们还清洗了被认为忠于他信的那些官员。
The Education Ministry’s order last month that all public high schools use the new textbook is part of a broader effort to instill patriotism in Thai youth. The junta has ordered a new school curriculum that underlines what are seen to be the unifying themes of the monarchy and the glories of the ancient kingdoms of Siam, as Thailand was formerly known.
教育部上月发出指令，让所有公立中学均采用新版教科书，这属于在泰国年轻人中间培养爱国主义的宏大计划的一部分。军方下令施行的新学校课程中，突出了其眼中的统一主题——王室，以及泰国的前身古暹罗王国的光辉历史。
There are numerous examples, especially in Asia, of government deletions of undesirable facts and faces from official history. In China, history textbooks do not mention the military crackdown on the 1989 protests in Tiananmen Square, and many young people know little or nothing about it. In North Korea, the uncle of Kim Jong-un, the country’s leader, was edited out of state television footage after the uncle was executed last year.
政府从官方历史记录中删除令其不快的史实和人物的例子并不鲜见，尤其是在亚洲。中国大陆的历史教科书中回避了1989年的天安门广场军事镇压事件，而许多年轻人对此知之甚少或是一无所知。在朝鲜，最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑父去年遭处决后，过去的相关镜头被官方电视台剪掉。
Thai history textbooks have very little coverage of the leftist movements of the 1960s and 1970s and the government’s efforts to suppress them.
泰国的历史教科书亦对上世纪六七十年代的左翼运动及其遭受的政府镇压鲜有涉及。
But in today’s Thailand — plugged into the world, freewheeling and linked through social media technologies beyond the government’s control — it is unclear to what degree the military can erase the society’s deep divisions from the public’s consciousness.
不过，今天的泰国高度融入世界之中，人们随心所欲，通过政府不能控制的社交媒体技术相互联系。军方究竟能在多大程度上从公众意识中抹去社会的深层分歧，还是个未知数。
“This is very much the usual practice of Thai elite,” said Charnvit Kasetsiri, former rector of the prestigious Thammasat University. “But it will be difficult because of social media and because it is not that easy to control the thinking of the masses, especially educated youth.”
“这基本上是泰国权贵阶层的典型做法，”曾担任著名学府国立法政大学(Thammasat University)校长的参威·卡社西里(Charnvit Kasetsiri)说。“但这一回将是困难重重，因为有了社交媒体，而且大众的思想并不是那么容易控制的，尤其是那些受过教育的年轻人。”
Chris Baker, a leading authority on Thai history, sees the historical censorship as misguided.
泰国历史研究领域的权威克里斯·贝克(Chris Baker)认为，审查历史之举颇为失当。
“Snipping history like this is straight out of the handbook of totalitarian regimes,” he said. “I think doing this in a society that has become as open as Thailand is counterproductive, because people will notice the absence.”
“像这样篡改历史是极权政权的标准做法，”他说。“我想，在泰国这样一个已经如此开放的社会里这么做，会适得其反，因为民众会察觉其中的缺失。”
The government has not announced or explained the deletion.
政府没有公开宣布此次删减，也未对此做出说明。
Winai Rodjay, who was appointed by the military government as chairman of a committee on the teaching of history and civic duty, said the omission of Mr. Thaksin was an aberration. But he could not explain how it had happened or why.
受军政府任命担任历史与公民责任教育委员会主席的维奈·罗哉(Winai Rodjay)表示，书中不见他信的踪影是出了差错。不过，他没能解释此事如何发生以及其中的缘由。
“I think the editor may have cut it,” he said, adding that he would prefer that Mr. Thaksin’s name be inserted the next time the textbook was revised.
“我想大概是编辑删掉了。”他还表示，希望他信的名字会在修订这批教科书的时候加入进去。
Under the new curriculum, students will learn more about the meaning and symbolism of Thailand’s tricolor national flag, and songs such as the king’s anthem will be played in schools.
按照新的课程计划，学生将加强学习泰国三色旗的意义与象征，而学校也会播放《颂圣歌》等曲目。
Schoolchildren will be trained to act as ambassadors of patriotic spirit, Mr. Winai said. He gave the hypothetical example of students reprimanding adults who fail to stand at attention during the national anthem, which is played on radio stations and on public broadcast systems at 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. daily.
维奈称，学生将被训练成爱国精神的使者。他给出了一个假设的例子：听到电台和公共传播系统每天朝八晚六播放国歌的时候，学生会教育没能肃立的成年人。
“The students might go and ask, ‘Why aren’t you standing straight when the national anthem is played?’ ” he said.
“学生可能会去问，‘奏国歌的时候，你怎么不站好？’”他说。
The junta has issued a list of 12 values for the country, including gratitude toward parents, discipline, morality and the maintaining of “physical and mental strength against greed.” Large banners bearing the list are being posted at schools nationwide.
军政府发布了包括12项内容的国家精神，比如感恩父母、克己守纪、重视道德，以及“抵御贪念的强健体魄”。写有这些内容的大块横幅开始出现在全国的校园中。
The Education Ministry has also introduced a “merit passport,” in which students must keep a record of their behavior and attitudes.
教育部还推出了“操行册”，要求学生必须在上面记录本人的品行。
Mr. Thaksin was in power from 2001 to 2006, and his political movement has won every election in the past decade and a half, including a number of landslides. His sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, was prime minister from 2011 until she was removed from office in May.
他信于2001年至2006年间执政；他领导的政治运动赢得了过去15年间的所有选举，其中数次是大获全胜。他的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)从2011年起担任总理，直至今年5月被迫下台。