Until very recently, it seemed as if Taylor Swift could do no wrong. Since 2006, when she arrived on the Nashville scene with the release of her eponymous album, as a gawky teenager in sundresses and cowboy boots, Ms. Swift has earned accolades (including seven Grammy Awards), upgraded to designer gowns (notably the Elie Saab black dress with sheer thigh panels that she wore to the Brit Awards in February) and perhaps more important, sold records and concert tickets as if they were frosted cupcakes — which, if you paid attention to Instagram, you’d know she bakes with pal Selena Gomez in her Nashville penthouse.
直到最近这段时间之前，泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)似乎一直都可以无往而不利。2006年，她带着刚刚首发，以自己名字命名的专辑登上《纳什维尔风景》(Nashville Scene)杂志时，还是一名穿太阳裙和牛仔靴的腼腆少女；自那之后，斯威夫特就开始赢得各种荣誉（包括七个格莱美奖），衣着升级到了设计师品牌（其中值得一提的是2月出席全英音乐奖[Brit Awards]时所穿的裙摆露大腿的艾莉·萨博[Elie Saab]黑色晚装），或许更重要的是，她的唱片和演唱会门票就像是冰冻纸杯蛋糕一样大卖——如果你曾留意Instagram的话，你就会知道，她会在她纳什维尔的顶层公寓里和好友塞琳娜·戈麦斯(Selena Gomez)一起做蛋糕。
Though her romantic relationships went less smoothly than her career, they still inspired hits like “We Are Never, Ever Getting Back Together” (reportedly about Jake Gyllenhaal) and “Dear John” (as in Mayer, it is widely assumed). She landed endorsement deals with brands including Diet Coke, American Greetings, Keds and CoverGirl. And she was on magazine covers from Rolling Stone, to Elle, to this month’s Vanity Fair.
尽管她在感情上并不如事业上那么顺畅，但这些恋情还是为《我们永远都不会再和好了》（We Are Never, Ever Getting Back Together，据报讲的是杰克·吉伦哈尔[Jake Gyllenhaal]）和《亲爱的约翰》（Dear John，当中的“约翰”被广泛猜测是约翰·梅尔[John Mayer]）等流行歌曲提供了灵感。她所得到的品牌代言合约包括了健怡可乐、美国问候贺卡(American Greetings)以及封面女郎(CoverGirl)等。她登上封面的杂志则包括了《滚石》、《Elle》，以及这个月的《名利场》。
And therein, perhaps, the trouble began.
而或许也正是这样，麻烦就来了。
Her ubiquity, not to mention her dating history, has begun to stir what feels like the beginning of a backlash (including both a Tumblr account and Facebook page titled “I Hate Taylor Swift,” the latter with 5,912 “likes”).
她的无所不在，以及她的恋爱史，已经开始带来一些似乎是反感的苗头了（当中包括一个分别都叫”I Hate Taylor Swift”[我讨厌泰勒·斯威夫特]的Tumblr帐户和Facebook主页，后者有5912个“喜欢”标签）。
At the Golden Globes in February, the hosts Tina Fey and Amy Poehler warned Ms. Swift to “stay away from Michael J. Fox’s son,” who had accompanied his father to the ceremony, and joked that she could use “some ’me time’ to learn about herself.” Ms. Swift counterattacked in her Vanity Fair interview by quoting Katie Couric (who was quoting Madeleine Albright): “ ’There’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help other women.’ “
2月份的金球奖，主持人蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)和艾米·波勒(Amy Poehler)告诫斯威夫特要“离迈克尔·J·福克斯(Michael J. Fox)的儿子远点儿”，因为他跟着父亲一起来出席了颁奖典礼，并且开玩笑说，她大可以“花一些‘私人时间’来多了解自己”。斯威夫特在她的《名利场》专访中引用了凯蒂·柯里克(Katie Couric)的话来反击（而柯里克也只是引用了玛德琳·奥尔布赖特[Madeleine Albright]的话）：“‘在地狱里有一个地方专门留给那些不帮助其他女人的女人。’”
The incident quickly became a much-followed story on the Web and Twitter, with Ms. Poehler and Ms. Fey gently chiding Ms. Swift for taking things too seriously and others, like the talk show host Chelsea Handler, suggesting that she was fair game. “They were clearly making a joke just about her demeanor, which is embarrassing,” Ms. Handler told Andy Cohen on Bravo’s “Watch What Happens“ last Tuesday. “I mean, she’s just dated so many men.”
这一事件很快就变成了在网络和推特上引来大量围观的故事，波勒和菲都委婉地指责斯威夫特对事情太过认真，而其他人，比如脱口秀主持人切尔西·汉德勒(Chelsea Handler)就表示斯威夫特是正当还击。“她们显然是在拿她的行为举止开玩笑，这很令人尴尬，”汉德勒女士在上周二精彩电视台(Bravo)的电视节目《看看发生什么》(Watch What Happens)上这样告诉安迪·科恩(Andy Cohen)，“我的意思是，她毕竟约会过那么多的男人。”
Can Ms. Swift, 23, take a joke? Has she been overexposed? Worse, is America’s reigning golden girl, sweetheart, country-pop crossover star and breakup-song specialist going through a quarter-life crisis?
23岁的斯威夫特小姐开得起玩笑吗？她是已经被过分曝光了吗？更糟糕的是，这位美国当下的女金童、甜心佳人、乡村与流行乐的跨界明星，以及分手歌曲专业户，是正处在“青年危机”当中吗？
Ms. Swift, through a publicist, declined to comment for this article. But Scott Borchetta, founder and chief executive of Big Machine Records and the man widely credited with her rise, said he believed the Vanity Fair quote was taken out of context, and voiced confidence in her staying power. “She’s so grounded,” he said. “This isn’t a person who’s going to wake up half-naked, drunk in a car somewhere in Hollywood.”
斯威夫特通过一位发言人拒绝了为这篇报道置评。但大型机器唱片公司(Big Machine Records)的创始人兼首席执行官，以及被广泛认为是斯威夫特走红关键人物的斯科特·波尔切塔(Scott Borchetta)，却说他相信《名利场》中的引述是断章取义的，并且他表达了对斯威夫特继续保持强势的信心。“她是那么地沉稳，”他说，“她不是那种会在好莱坞某个地方醉在车里然后半裸着醒来的人。”
According to the marketing evaluations company Q Scores, Ms. Swift’s popularity rating, which takes into account familiarity (about 8 out of 10 people surveyed knows who she is) and appeal, peaked in 2010 at 30 out of 100. Presumably, Ms. Swift was reaping the benefits of the Kanye West debacle, when he interrupted her acceptance speech for Best Female Video by barging onstage at the MTV Video Music Awards in September 2009.
根据市场评估公司“Q分值”(Q Scores)的统计，2010年，斯威夫特的受欢迎指数达到了顶峰的30分（满分100分），当中要计算的包括熟悉度（接受调查的每10个人中有8个知道她是谁）和魅力。可以猜想的是，斯威夫特是得益于坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)的拆台。在2009年9月的MTV音乐电视颁奖典礼(MTV Video Music Awards)上，在她领取最佳女歌手音乐电视奖的致词中，他曾在舞台上打断过她的话。
But her popularity score has since dropped by a third, to 20 this year, the lowest it’s ever been, though still 4 points higher than the average score (16) in the performer category.
不过在那之后，她的受欢迎程度下跌了1/3，今年掉到了20分，这是她有史以来的最低，尽管在表演艺人类别中，她仍比平均分值（16分）高出4分。
“She’s not doing the kind of numbers that an advertiser would really love to see,” said Steven Levitt, president of the marketing company, noting her trajectory.
“她目前并没有达到一个广告客户真正想看到的数字，”该市场评估公司的主席史蒂文·莱维特(Steven Levitt)在谈到她的走势时这样说道。
CoverGirl has let Ms. Swift’s contract expire. “We routinely evaluate our CoverGirls,” said Paige Cali, a company spokeswoman, adding that she couldn’t divulge further details except that the contract expired recently.
封面女郞品牌没有和斯威夫特续约。“我们会定期地评估我们的‘封面女郎’们，”该公司的发言人派吉·卡利(Paige Cali)这样说道，并且说她不能透露更多细节，只表示合同是在最近到期的。
A Women’s Wear Daily article this week stated that Ms. Swift’s magazine covers sell fewer issues than those of her contemporaries, like Adele, Lady Gaga, Gwen Stefani, Lauren Conrad, Scarlett Johansson and Zooey Deschanel.
《女装日报》(Women’s Wear Daily)本周的一篇文章指，以斯威夫特为封面的杂志比其他同辈艺人作封面的杂志卖得更少，比如阿黛尔(Adele)、Lady Gaga、格温·斯特芬妮(Gwen Stefani)、劳伦·康拉德(Lauren Conrad)、斯嘉丽·约翰逊(Scarlett Johansson)以及佐伊·丹斯切尔(Zooey Deschanel)等。
Mr. Levitt pointed out that this year Ms. Swift’s negative Q score, a 21, topped her positive number for the first time.
莱维特指出，今年斯威夫特的负面Q分值是21，第一次超过了她的正面分值。
“It’s not the scores of an extraordinary performer that has substantially more positive than negative, like Tom Hanks or Will Smith,” he said. “There’s almost an equal number that rate her fair or poor. What you can surmise from that is that her rating is a function of age groups. The positive must be coming from younger age groups. A good part of the negative is from older people.”
“这不是一个出色的表演艺人的分数，像汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)或者威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)等人，通常都会是正面分远高于负面分，”他说，“将她评为平平或者差劲的人数却几乎是同样多。由此你可以猜想到的是，她的分值是一个以年龄层区分的函数。正面分肯定是来自于比较年轻的阶层。负面分有相当部分是来自于年纪稍大的人群。”
To quote Ms. Swift’s single about middle school: “Why you gotta be so mean?”
如果用斯威夫特一首关于中学生活的单曲歌词来说的话：“你们为什么非得那么刻薄呢？(Why you gotta be so mean?)”
Yet, even for her critics, it would be hasty to write off Ms. Swift. Her fourth album, “Red,” broke sales records in its first week, before going quadruple platinum. She kicked off the album’s corresponding tour on Wednesday, already having sold out several shows. And she got five nominations, including Entertainer of the Year, for the coming Academy of Country Music Awards on April 7.
不过，即使是对她的批评者来说，要就此判斯威夫特死刑还是为时过早。她的第四张专辑《红》(Red)在首周就打破了销量纪录，随后还达到四白金销量。她在周三开始了这张专辑的巡演，有好几场的演出票已经售罄。在4月7日的乡村音乐颁奖典礼(Academy of Country Music Awards)上，她得到了5项提名，其中还包括年度艺人奖(Entertainer of the Year)。
And though relationships with the teenagers Harry Styles of One Direction and Conor Kennedy may have inspired ribbing that she is a cradle robber (along with providing even more song material), Ms. Swift, unlike Britney Spears at the same age, has mostly maintained an air of innocence until now.
而与“单向”(One Direction)乐队的哈里·斯泰尔斯(Harry Styles)，以及康纳·肯尼迪(Conor Kennedy)等少年人之间的恋爱关系，虽然引来了挖苦，说她是老牛吃嫩草（同时还带来了更多的音乐素材），但斯威夫特与这个年纪时的布兰妮·斯皮尔斯(Britney Spears)不一样，她直到现在基本上还保持着一种纯真的气场。
“It’s Taylor’s back story,” said Janjay Sherman, the publicity and talent-relations director of Extra Extra, an events and marketing company that recommends celebrity pairings to corporate clients. “The whole ‘I was raised on a farm, I’m a country girl’ kind of thing was established before she crossed over to pop and mainstream,” Ms. Sherman added. “And with country, there’s a really clean wholesomeness that attaches to her.”
“这是因为泰勒的成长背景，”一家活动项目与市场营销公司“Extra Extra”的公关及艺人关系总监珍杰·舍尔曼(Janjay Sherman)说道。这家公司专为明星客户的配对提供建议。“那整个‘我是在农村长大的，我是个乡村女孩’的劲头，在她跨入流行和主流之前就已经形成了，”舍尔曼女士补充说，“因为有乡村成分，所以她身上就带着一种清新的，阳光健康的气息。”
And controversy just might make her more interesting, particularly to high-end beauty and fashion companies. MAC Cosmetics, for one, doesn’t use marketing scores when selecting its outspoken celebrity collaborators, like Rihanna, whose first installment of her makeup collection with the brand has its debut this spring, said James Gager, senior vice president and creative director of the company, whose ambassadors have included hardly uncontroversial personalities like Lady Gaga and Nicki Minaj.
而争议或许反而让她令人更感兴趣，尤其是对于高端的美容和时尚企业来说。魅可化妆品(MAC Cosmetics)就是其中一个。该公司的资深副总裁兼创意总监詹姆斯·加格尔(James Gager)说，他们在选择一些直率的明星合作伙伴时并不借助市场评估分数，比如蕾哈娜(Rihanna)，她为这个品牌代言的第一个化妆品系列，就是在今年春天首发的；而这家公司的宣传大使还包括Lady Gaga和妮琪·米娜(Nicki Minaj)等这些丝毫不缺少争议的名人。
Designers are increasingly willing to lend Ms. Swift red-carpet gowns, said Alana Varel, a founder of Starworks Group, a company that pairs celebrities with clients like Miu Miu, Prada and Bulgari, including Kirsten Dunst, Rachel Weisz and Julianne Moore for the jeweler.
设计师们也越来越乐意给斯威夫特借出晚装，星工厂集团(Starworks Group)的创始人之一阿兰娜·瓦瑞尔(Alana Varel)说。该公司是一家为明星寻找配搭品牌客户的公司，品牌包括缪缪(Miu Miu)、普拉达(Prada)和宝格丽(Bulgari)等，明星则包括了克斯汀·邓斯特(Kirsten Dunst)、瑞秋·怀兹(Rachel Weisz)以及和珠宝品牌配搭的茱丽安·摩尔(Julianne Moore)。
Ms. Swift has already registered approval among fashion commentators this year, particularly when in white, like the Grecian-style gown with metallic beaded straps by J. Mendel that she wore to the Grammy Awards in February, and a plunging Ralph Lauren cap-sleeved dress at the People’s Choice Awards in January.
斯威夫特今年已经得到了时尚评论员们的肯定，尤其是她穿白色的时候，比如2月份她穿去格莱美颁奖礼的由J·门德尔(J. Mendel)出品的希腊风长裙配金属饰珠带，以及1月份在人民选择奖(People’s Choice Awards)中穿的拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)低胸深肩袖晚装等。
“She’s hitting her stride in style,” Ms. Varel said.
“她正在迈着很有格调的步伐，”瓦瑞尔说。