PAK OK, Thailand — Soon after the first surrogate mother from this remote village gave birth, neighbors noticed her new car and conspicuous home renovations, sending ripples of envy through the wooden houses beside rice paddies and tamarind groves.
泰国巴谷格——在这个偏远村庄的首位代孕母亲产子后不久，邻居们注意到她买了新车，整修了房屋，嫉妒的涟漪波及了稻田和罗望子树丛旁的一栋栋木屋。
“There was a lot of excitement, and many people were jealous,” said Thongchan Inchan, 50, a shopkeeper here.
50岁的店主通占·因参(Thongchan Inchan)说，“大家非常激动，很多人都很嫉妒。”
In the two years since, carrying babies for foreigners, mainly couples from wealthier Asian nations, quickly became a lucrative cottage industry in the farming communities around Pak Ok, a six-hour drive from Bangkok. Officials say at least 24 women out of a population of about 13,000 people have since become paid surrogate mothers.
此后的两年，为外国人——主要是富裕的亚洲国家的夫妇——代孕，在巴谷格周围的村庄中迅速成为一个有利可图的家庭产业，巴谷格距离曼谷有六小时车程。官员们表示，此后，在大约1.3万人中至少有24名女性成为了赚薪酬的代孕母亲。
“If I weren’t this old, maybe I would have done it myself,” Ms. Thongchan said. “This is a poor village. We make money by day and it’s gone by evening.”
“如果我不这么老，我自己可能也会这么做，”通占说。“我们村很穷。白天赚的钱到晚上就花完了。”
The baby boomlet here was just one of several bizarre and often ethically charged iterations of Thailand’s freewheeling venture into what detractors call the womb rental business, an unguided experiment that the country’s military government now says it is planning to end.
泰国正在随心所欲地开展批评者所说的子宫出租业务，这些业务令人匪夷所思，且通常在道德上易受批评，这里的小规模婴儿潮只是此类不断发生的事件里的一桩而已。如今，该国军政府称其计划终结这种不受控制的实验。
Commercial surrogacy has been available for at least a decade in Thailand, one of only a handful of countries where it is allowed, and one of only two in Asia, making it a prime destination for couples in the region from countries where the practice is banned.
商业代孕在泰国至少已有10年历史。目前，只有少数国家允许商业代孕，泰国正是两个允许这种做法的亚洲国家之一，因此成了那些禁止代孕的亚洲国家夫妇的主要选择。
Officials estimate that there are several hundred surrogate births here each year, a number that does not include foreign surrogates, including many hired by Chinese couples, who come to Thailand for the embryo implantation then return home to carry out the pregnancy.
据官员们估计，这里每年会有几百个代孕案例，其中还不包括外籍代孕者，比如很多中国夫妇雇佣的代孕母亲会来到泰国植入胚胎，然后回国生子。
But a pair of recent scandals have focused scrutiny on the largely unregulated industry, raising ethical questions and prompting the government’s crackdown. In late July, the Thai news media reported that an Australian couple who had paid a woman to carry twins returned home with only one of their children, leaving behind the other, who had Down syndrome. Pleas for assistance by the surrogate mother helped produce a sustained national outcry that was further stoked by comments by the boy’s biological father that were deemed insensitive at best.
但最近的两桩丑闻使这个基本不受管制的产业成为关注焦点，这些丑闻突显了一些伦理问题，并促使政府进行打压。7月末，泰国新闻媒体报道称，一对澳大利亚夫妇出钱让一名女性代孕生下双胞胎，但他们只将其中一个孩子带回家，留下了那个患有唐氏综合症的孩子。代孕母亲的援助请求在一定程度上引发了全国性的持续抗议，男孩生父的言论则进一步加剧了不满情绪，这些言论被看做是极其无情的。
The father, David John Farnell, told an Australian television program that he would have preferred that the pregnancy had been terminated. “I don’t think any parent wants a son with a disability,” he said.
孩子父亲戴维·约翰·法内尔(David John Farnell)在澳大利亚电视台的节目中表示，他宁愿当时孕妇停止妊娠。他说，“我觉得任何父母都不想要一个身患残疾的儿子。”
He also said that he and his wife had told the agency in Bangkok that served as an intermediary to “give us back our money.”
他还表示，他和妻子要求曼谷的中介机构，“把钱还给我们。”
The Australian news media raised questions about his fitness as a father after finding court records showing that he was convicted and imprisoned for 22 counts of child sex abuse in the 1990s.
澳大利亚新闻媒体找到的法庭记录显示，他在20世纪90年代受到22项性侵儿童指控，在罪名成立后遭到监禁，媒体因此质疑他是否适合当一名父亲。
More recently, police raids on surrogacy clinics in Bangkok uncovered the case of a Japanese man who had fathered around a dozen babies through surrogates — the exact number is not known — whose births were only weeks or months apart. Last week the global police agency, Interpol, said it had begun an investigation into the motives and background of the Japanese man.
最近，警察突袭了曼谷代孕诊所，其间发现一名日本男子通过代孕成为大约12名婴儿的父亲——确切数字尚不清楚，这些婴儿年龄相差只有几周或几个月。国际刑警组织(Interpol)在上周表示，已经开始调查这名日本男子的动机和背景。
Commentators have lamented that Thailand, which already had a reputation for prostitution, was now becoming, as one television anchor called it, the “womb of Asia.”
评论人员抱怨称，泰国曾以卖淫著称，而现在则像一名电视主持人说的那样，变成了“亚洲的子宫”。
Others described surrogacy as the exploitation of the weak and poor by wealthy couples from more developed nations.
其他人称，代孕是较发达国家的富有夫妇利用贫穷、弱势女性的行为。
“This is a symbol of moral erosion,” said Kaysorn Vongmanee, the head of the public health department in Pak Ok. “It’s a symbol that people are concerned above all with money.”
“这是道德堕落的象征，” 巴谷格公共卫生部门负责人革颂·翁姆尼(Kaysorn Vongmanee)说。“是人们推崇金钱至上的象征。”
The surrogates, some of whom are still pregnant, fled to the anonymity of Bangkok last week when officials and a phalanx of the Thai news media descended on the area to publicize what they portrayed as a national scandal. The village is quiet now, with children and chickens scampering along the dirt road that winds along the edge of a steep, bamboo-covered mountainside.
上周，当官员及一批泰国媒体抵达该区报道他们所谓的全国性丑闻时，代孕母亲们纷纷逃到曼谷藏身，她们其中一些人正有孕在身。这个村庄现在非常安静，孩子和小鸡沿着泥土路奔跑，这条蜿蜒的小路通往陡峭且布满竹林的山坡脚下。
Among the villagers, there is sympathy for the surrogates and anger at what is seen as a witch hunt by the authorities for women who took part in a practice that is not yet illegal.
在村民当中，有的人支持代孕母亲，有的人则感到非常愤怒，他们称，这是当局对从事尚不属于非法活动的女性的迫害。
“There’s nothing wrong with surrogacy — you are helping people who can’t have a baby,” said Pakson Thongda, 42, whose daughter twice sold eggs to a fertility clinic for about $1,000 each time. “I understand the feeling of a mother who really, really wants a child.”
“代孕没什么错，这是在帮助那些不能生孩子的人，”42岁的巴格颂·通达(Pakson Thongda)说。“我了解那些真的很想要孩子的母亲的感觉。”通达的女儿曾两次向生育诊所出售卵子，每次获得大约1000美元（约合6140元人民币）的报酬。
The police investigations and the pending law have left a number of foreign couples wondering whether they will be able to bring their surrogate babies home. One Australian couple, unable to complete the legal procedures for twins born in July by a Thai surrogate, have been raising funds on the Internet to help pay for the legal costs.
警方的调查和即将出台的法律致使一些外国夫妇怀疑他们能否将通过代孕获得的婴儿带回家。一对澳大利亚夫妇就无法为泰国代孕母亲7月产下的双胞胎完成法律程序，目前他们在网络上筹集资金，以支付法律费用。
The authorities in Australia have requested that the Thai junta allow “transitional arrangements,” before the law banning commercial surrogacy comes into effect.
澳大利亚的相关政府机构已经要求泰国军政府在禁止商业代孕的法律生效前，允许“过渡安排”。