BANGKOK — In a world now accustomed to democratic upheavals, including the Arab Spring and the Saffron and Orange revolutions, the weeks of political upheaval in Thailand stand out for one main peculiarity. Protesters massing on the streets here are demanding less democracy, not more.
曼谷——当今世界，人们已经习惯了民主动乱，比如阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring)、藏红花革命(Saffron Revolution) 及橙色革命(Orange Revolution)，有鉴于此，泰国长达数周的政治动乱之所以受到关注，是因为它的一个主要特质。聚集在曼谷街头的抗议者要求的是更少的民主，而不是更多。
From their stage beneath the Democracy Monument, a Bangkok landmark, protesters cheer their campaign to replace the country’s Parliament with a “people’s council” in which members are selected from various professions rather than elected by voters.
在曼谷地标民主纪念碑(Democracy Monument)下方的台子上，抗议者高声呼吁用“人民委员会”代替泰国的议会，人民委员会的成员将从各个行业挑选而来，不由选民选出。
The embattled prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, has proposed holding new elections as a solution to the turmoil. But that is exactly what the protesters do not want.
陷入困境的总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)提议举行新的选举，以此平息动乱。然而，这恰恰是抗议者不想看到的事情。
“I am one of the people who will not allow this election to take place,” Suthep Thaugsuban, the main protest leader, told a group of business executives in Bangkok on Thursday. Continued protests “might hurt businesses,” he said, “but just in the short term.”
上周四，主要的示威领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)在曼谷告诉一些企业高管，“人们不会允许举行新的选举，我就是其中之一。”持续的抗议“可能会对商业造成损害，”他说，“但这只是短期的事情。”
In today’s fractured Thailand, a majority wants more democracy, but a minority, including many rich and powerful people, are petrified by the thought of it.
如今的泰国意见分裂，大多数人想要更多的民主，然而，包括很多富人及权贵在内的少数派却对这样的想法感到吃惊。
Ms. Yingluck’s Pheu Thai Party has won every election since 2001. Members of the main opposition party, the Democrat Party, resigned en masse from Parliament on Sunday, joined the street protesters, and have not yet said whether they would contest in February.
自2001年以来，英拉领导的为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)赢得了所有选举。主要反对党民主党(Democrat Party)的成员于周日集体辞去议会的职务，加入了街头抗议者的行列。他们迄今尚未表示，是否参加2月份的选举。
That Thailand is being convulsed by an antidemocracy movement is somewhat surprising. The country was one of the earliest in Asia to adopt democracy, and both women and men were allowed to vote in local elections in 1897, more than two decades before the 19th Amendment in the United States banned voting rights discrimination on the basis of sex.
反民主运动在泰国引起震动，这有些令人吃惊。泰国是最早采用民主制度的亚洲国家之一，早在1897年，该国的女性和男性就获得了地方选举的投票权，比美国颁布第十九修正案(19th Amendment)禁止投票权性别歧视的时间还早20多年。
The antidemocracy protests, which have been some of the largest in Thai history, call into question the commonly held belief that a rising tide of wealth in a society will naturally be followed by greater demands for democracy. Thailand today is much richer than it was two decades ago, but it is also much more divided.
此次反民主抗议活动是泰国历史上规模最大的抗议活动，该活动挑战了一个普遍持有的信念，即随着社会中财富的不断增长，自然会出现对民主的更大需求。今天的泰国比20年前富裕得多，该国的意见却更加分裂。
To outsiders, some of the rhetoric of protest leaders seems to come from a different era — and is in jarring contrast to the image of Thailand as a cosmopolitan country open to the world.
对于局外人来说，抗议活动领导人的一些言辞似乎来自一个不同的时代，与泰国对外开放的国际化国家形象形成了强烈对比。
At the Democracy Monument, in the heart of Bangkok’s historic district, tens of thousands of protesters gather nightly to speak of their skepticism of the notion of one person, one vote. One block over on Khao San Road, a street legendary with generations of Western travelers, tattooed and tanned backpackers watch English Premier League soccer, drink beer and enjoy $7 foot massages.
民主纪念碑位于曼谷历史城区的中心地带，每天晚上都有数以万计的抗议者聚集在那里，谈论他们对一人一票理念的质疑。一个街区之外就是考山路(Khao San Road)，那是一条充满传奇的街道，一代又一代的西方游客光顾那里，刺有纹身、皮肤黝黑的背包客在那里观看英超联赛(English Premier League)，喝啤酒，享受收费7美元（约合42.5元人民币）的足部按摩。
On the face of it, the crux of the protest appears to be a classic power struggle between a dominant majority and a minority frustrated that its voice is not being heard.
从表面来看，抗议活动似乎主要是一种典型的权力斗争，一方是占主导地位的多数派，另一方则是因意见被人漠视而倍感失望的少数派。
But the political turmoil today is also tightly intertwined with the fact that King Bhumibol Adulyadej, the country’s 86-year-old monarch who during more than six decades on the throne has been revered to the point of quasi-religious devotion, is ailing, and the country is bracing for his passing.
然而，现在的政治动荡也与一个事实紧密相关，即国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)的身体状况每况愈下，泰国已经在为他的逝世做准备。现年86岁的普密蓬国王在位超过60年，人们对他的尊敬已经达到准宗教信仰的程度。
The nostalgia surrounding his reign and the respect for the king is so profound among protesters that some speakers in recent days have labeled the abandonment of the absolute monarchy in 1932 a mistake.
抗议者对国王统治时期的怀旧情绪和对他的崇敬十分深切，以至于近日的一些发言者已经表示，泰国于1932年抛弃绝对君主制的行为是个错误。
Protest leaders have called for a royally appointed prime minister.
抗议领袖呼吁由皇室任命总理。
The royal anthem is played nightly at protests, and marches are led by protesters holding his portrait aloft.
抗议群体每夜都在演奏王室赞歌，人们在高举国王肖像的抗议者的领导下游行。
A crucial undercurrent in the demonstrations is the protesters’ claim that the king and the institution of the monarchy have been undermined and threatened by the popularity of Ms. Yingluck’s elder brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, the former prime minister and patriarch of the Shinawatra clan, Thailand’s most powerful political family.
此次示威当中有一股关键的潜流，即抗议者声称，英拉的兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的民望对国王和君主制造成了破坏和威胁。他信·西那瓦曾任泰国总理，是西那瓦家族的当家人，该家族是泰国最强大的政治家族。
“This is a war between Thaksin and the king,” said a 64-year-old corn farmer from central Thailand who gave her name only as Muai and was among the thousands of protesters in the streets on Thursday. “Thaksin has been insulting the king for far too long.”
64岁的玉米种植户穆艾(Muai)说，“这是他信和国王之间的战争，他信对国王无礼的时间够长的了。”她来自泰国中部，是上周四在街头示威的数千名抗议者中的一员。她只说自己名叫穆艾。
Mr. Thaksin has never publicly spoken ill of the king, but many of his supporters have been convicted by the authorities for lèse-majesté.
他信从来没有公开指责过国王，然而，当局曾判定他信的许多支持者犯有冒犯君主罪。
A 2008 United States diplomatic cable made public by WikiLeaks offered a rare insight into Mr. Thaksin’s perception of his relationship with the king.
维基解密(WikiLeaks)公布的一份2008年的美国外交电报提供了一个罕有的机会，让人们得以了解他信对自己和国王之间关系的看法。
According to Eric G. John, who wrote the cable and was then the United States ambassador in Thailand, Mr. Thaksin said he “had enjoyed a good relationship with the king during his first term as prime minister” but that the relationship soured after he won re-election in 2005.
电报作者、时任美国驻泰国大使埃里克·G·约翰(Eric G. John)透露，他信曾说，“在担任总理的第一任期内，他和国王之间关系良好”，然而，在他2005年再次当选后，两人的关系变糟了。
“Thaksin said many figures at the palace felt threatened by his political power and his popularity with rural Thais,” the cable said.
电报提到，“他信说，许多王室成员认为，他的政治权力以及他在泰国农民中的人气威胁到了他们的地位。”
Mr. Thaksin was removed in a military coup in 2006.
在2006年的一场军事政变中，他信被迫下台。
Respect for the king, and the notion of his near infallibility and beneficence, are deeply ingrained in Thais from the earliest years of schooling. Many Thais look to the king as a spiritual anchor and someone who can steer the country far better than politicians.
从刚进校门的时候起，泰国人的头脑里就牢牢种下了对国王的崇敬，以及国王近乎永远正确、永远仁慈的观念。许多泰国人把国王看成自己的精神港湾，还把他看成一位治国本领远远强于政客的能人。
Yet the king’s ailing health appears to preclude any role in mediating this conflict. He did not specifically mention the protests in his annual birthday address to the nation a week ago.
然而，国王日益衰弱的健康状况，似乎阻碍了他在此次冲突中发挥任何调停作用。一周之前，他在生日当天向全国发表了讲话，其间并没有特别提到此次抗议。
Hopes for a negotiated settlement to the political standoff still seem distant. Mr. Suthep, the protest leader, was asked by business leaders on Thursday whether he would reach out to his opponents in the governing party and their allies.
通过谈判化解政治僵局的希望似乎依然遥不可及。上周四，商界领袖质问抗议领袖素贴，问他究竟打不打算与执政党及其盟友中的反对者磋商。
“We are ready to listen to people from every sector,” he said. “But we don’t want to negotiate.”
素贴说，“我们乐意倾听各界人士的意见。不过，我们不打算谈判。”
Former Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva was charged with murder Thursday in connection with the 2010 deaths of protesters killed during a crackdown on antigovernment demonstrators, The Associated Press reported from Bangkok.
据美联社(Associated Press)从曼谷报道，上周四，泰国前总理阿披实·维乍集瓦(Abhisit Vejjajiva)被控犯有谋杀罪，该指控和2010年死于当局镇压的反政府示威者有关。
Mr. Abhisit, of the opposition Democrat Party, denied all the charges in the brief court hearing. His government approved the use of live ammunition under limited conditions and deployed sharpshooters and snipers during the 2010 demonstrations. His deputy at the time, Suthep Thaugsuban, the leader of the current protests, was also expected to face charges Thursday, though he has asked that his hearing be postponed until January.
来自反对党民主党的阿披实在简短的庭审中否认了所有指控。在2010年的示威中，他执掌的政府批准在特定条件下使用实弹，并且部署了神枪手和狙击手。目前的抗议领袖、时任副总理的素贴·特素班本来也将在周四面临指控，但他已请求把他的庭审日期延后到明年1月。