BANGKOK — A leader of a pro-government faction was shot and wounded outside his home in northeast Thailand Wednesday, one day after Thailand’s prime minister declared the imposition of emergency rule in Bangkok and surrounding areas as tensions in the country have escalated.
曼谷——一名亲政府派系的领导人周三在其位于泰国东北部的住所外遭枪击受伤，一天前由于泰国紧张局势升级，泰国总理宣布曼谷及周边地区进入紧急状态。
Kwanchai Praipana, who runs a group of so-called red shirts that supports the government, was shot in Udon Thai Province in what appeared to be a politically motivated attack, the police said.
警方称，亲政府派“红衫军”的领导人宽猜·普莱帕纳(Kwanchai Praipana)在乌隆府(Udon Thai Province)遭枪击，袭击似乎是出于政治动机。
“From what we saw on CCTV, a bronze pickup truck drove by and several rounds were fired at the house,” Kowit Tharoenwattanasuk, a police colonel, told Reuters. “We believe this is a politically motivated crime.”
警察局长科维特·塔罗恩瓦塔纳苏克(Kowit Tharoenwattanasuk)告诉路透社，“我们在闭路电视上看到的是，一辆青铜色的小型卡车从房前开过，向几房子发射了几轮子弹。我们认为这是一起有政治动机的犯罪案件。”
The shooting of Mr. Kwanchai, who has thousands of followers, came as the country’s prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, seeks to control the increasingly aggressive moves of anti-government protesters on the streets of Bangkok. Her declaration of emergency rule Tuesday suggested a more forceful posture toward protesters who have occupied parts of the city during the past two months and are seeking to overthrow the government.
宽猜有数千名支持者，在他遭枪击之前，泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)试图控制曼谷街头越发严重的反政府抗议活动。她在周二宣布进入紧急状态，意味着要对那些在过去两个月内占领曼谷部分地区、要求推翻政府的抗议者采取更加强硬的措施。
But officials said they had no plans to crack down on protesters, who have escalated their campaign over the past week by blocking government offices, taking over major intersections and staging daily marches across Bangkok. The emergency decree enacted Tuesday gives the government the power to invoke curfews, censor the news media, disperse gatherings and use military force to “secure order.”
但官员称，他们并没有镇压抗议者的计划，上周抗议活动升级，抗议者们封锁了政府办公室，占据了交通要道，并且每天都在曼谷举行示威游行。周二实施的紧急法令授权政府实施宵禁、审查新闻媒体、驱散人群，以及为“维持秩序”而动用军队。
Surapong Tovichakchaikul, Thailand’s foreign minister, said the move was necessary because protesters had broken the law by blocking government offices and banks in recent days and threatening and harassing government officials. The decree will “allow the democratic process and Thailand to move forward,” he said.
泰国外交部长素拉蓬·多威差猜恭(Surapong Tovichakchaikul)称，采取这些措施是必要的，因为最近几天来抗议者违法封锁了政府办公室和银行，并对政府官员进行威胁和骚扰。他说，这一法令将“让民主进程以及泰国得以前行”。
Protesters have been attacked by unknown assailants in recent days. Three grenade attacks left one person dead and dozens injured. The government and the protesters have blamed each other for those attacks.
最近几天，抗议者遭到不明身份者的袭击。三次手榴弹袭击已导致一人死亡、几十人受伤。政府与抗议者相互指责对方制造了袭击。
The emergency decree, which is valid for 60 days, was passed under the same law that a different government used in 2010 to start a military crackdown that left dozens of people dead. Underlining the seesaw power struggle that has gripped Thailand for the better part of the past eight years, the man responsible for the crackdown four years ago, Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister, is now leading the antigovernment protests.
这一有效期为60天的紧急法令，是根据一个不同政府的相同法律通过的，上届政府在2010年曾靠法律动用了军队镇压抗议活动，造成几十人死亡。对四年前那次镇压负有责任的是泰国前副总理素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)，他现在是反政府抗议活动的领导人，这突显了过去8年大部分时间里泰国权力斗争的拉锯状态。
“I know about this well,” Mr. Suthep said to his supporters, discussing the decree. He stepped down from power after his party lost a general election in 2011.
素贴在与其支持者讨论紧急法令时说，“我十分了解这项法令。”其所在的党在2011年大选失利后，他辞去了政府职位。
“We will keep fighting until we win,” Mr. Suthep said, describing his protest movement as nonviolent and distinct from the “terrorists” who protested against him in 2010.
“我们将一直战斗下去，直到胜利，”素贴说，他把自己领导的抗议描述为非暴力活动，与“恐怖分子”2010年发起的抗议不同，那次活动是针对他的。
Mr. Suthep, who faces murder charges related to the 2010 crackdown, renewed a threat late on Tuesday to shut down Thailand’s air traffic control office, but he also said he would rest on Wednesday for medical reasons.
素贴面临与2010年镇压有关的谋杀罪指控，他在周二再次威胁称要关停泰国空中交通管制办公室，不过他也说，出于医疗考虑，他会在周三休息一天。
In recent weeks the government has been lauded by foreign governments, including the United States and European countries, for its restraint in handling the protests. The police have not tried to arrest Mr. Suthep despite a court-issued warrant for rebellion against the state.
最近几周来，包括美国和欧洲国家在内的外国政府一直称赞泰国政府，在处理抗议活动上保持了克制。虽然法院已批准以反对国家罪逮捕素贴，但警方还未试图将他抓拿归案。
In addition to the emergency decree, the government on Tuesday put a combative government minister and former police officer, Chalerm Yubamrung, in charge of security.
除了实施紧急法令，泰国政府周二还任命了斗志旺盛的政府部长兼前警察局长林·裕班伦(Chalerm Yubamrung)负责安全事务。
Mr. Suthep is trying to disrupt elections scheduled for Feb. 2 that Ms. Yingluck and her allies are considered almost certain to win. The opposition Democrat Party, which is allied with Mr. Suthep, is boycotting the election.
素贴在试图扰乱计划将于2月2日举行的选举活动，英拉及其同盟几乎肯定会在这次选举中获胜。与素贴结盟的反对党民主党(Democrat Party)也在抵制这次选举。
In a country long plagued by corruption, protest leaders say Ms. Yingluck’s party has taken graft to a new level and is subverting democracy. Protesters are calling for an unelected “people’s council” to run the country and carry out political overhauls. The government says protesters are in the streets because they cannot win at the ballot box.
在这个长期受腐败困扰的国家，抗议者领导人说，英拉所在的政党，让受贿达到了前所未有的程度，还在颠覆民主。抗议者呼吁让一个未经选举产生的“人民议会”来管理国家，实施大规模的政治改革。政府则称，抗议者走上街头，是因为他们未能赢得选举。
The debilitating and complex power struggle in Thailand has put into question the future of Thai democracy. Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, the founder of the most successful political movement in modern Thai history, have broad support in the north of the country. The protesters draw their support from Bangkok and the south. The powerful Thai military, which has staged a dozen coups in modern Thai history, is being courted by both sides.
泰国的这种削弱国家力量的复杂权力斗争，让人们对泰国的民主前景产生了疑问。英拉和她的哥哥他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)在泰国北部拥有广泛的支持，他信是泰国现代历史上最成功的政治运动的创始人。而抗议者的支持则主要来自曼谷和泰国南部。双方都在争取强大的泰国军队，军队曾在泰国现代史中发动过十几次政变。