Thailand is not one democracy, but two. In the 1990s the Thai political scientist Anek Laothamatas argued that the middle classes of Bangkok, educated and sophisticated, opposed corruption and embraced democratic values, while the uneducated masses in the rest of the country were susceptible to manipulation by unscrupulous politicians. This narrative is now being repeated by the middle-class Bangkokians who have recently taken to the streets en masse and occupied government buildings, forcing Yingluck Shinawatra, the democratically elected prime minister, to call for early elections in February.
泰国不是一个民主国家，而是两个。20世纪90年代，泰国政治学家阿涅·劳塔(Anek Laothamatas)提出，曼谷受过教育且有修养的中产阶级反对腐败，支持民主价值，而这个国家其他地区没受过教育的大批民众则常常易被不道德的政客所左右。而今，中产阶级的曼谷人正在重述这一说法，他们近来齐齐走上街头，占领政府大楼，让民选总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)不得不宣布，提前在二月举行大选。
In fact, the protesters themselves are proving Mr. Anek wrong. Now it’s the urban middle classes who are being manipulated by wayward politicians — like Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister who resigned from Parliament last month to lead the demonstrations — and who oppose holding fresh elections. And it’s the voters from the countryside who are backing electoral democracy.
事实上，示威者正在证明阿涅理论的错误。如今，正是城市的中产阶级被任性的政客——如上个月辞去议员职务来领导示威活动的前副总理素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)——所左右，也正是他们在抵制重新选举。而来自农村地区的选民则正在支持选举民主。
Most administrations have traditionally comprised unstable coalitions of warring factions, which means the traditional elites in the military, the royal palace and the judiciary called most of the shots because they could bring down prime ministers at will. Monarchism is to Thailand what Kemalism is to Turkey: a founding principle that the military can always invoke to justify seizing power on grounds of national security.
传统上来说，多数泰国政府都曾是敌对派系组成的不稳定联盟，这也就意味着，军中、皇室和司法系统的传统精英把持着大局，因为他们随时可以把总理赶下台。君主主义之于泰国就如同凯末尔主义之于土耳其：军方总是能援引这种基本原则，以国家安全为理由，正当地攫取权力。
At least that was the case until 2001, when Thaksin Shinawatra, Ms. Yingluck’s older brother, won his first election, paving the way for the victory of pro-Thaksin parties in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2011. An upstart Chiang Mai police officer turned telecommunications magnate and then political hustler, Mr. Thaksin is a controversial and polarizing figure. He was ousted in a military coup in 2006. Now in exile abroad, he faces jail time should he return home. Yet he has managed to consolidate power in the hands of a dominant ruling party, which has survived two court-mandated dissolutions and other judicial challenges.
至少到2001年都是如此，那一年，英拉的兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)赢得了自己的第一次大选，为亲他信政党在2005、2006、2007和2011年的胜利铺平了道路。这位平步青云的清迈警官摇身一变成了电信巨头，然后又成为了一名精明的政客。他信是一个争议人物，各界对他的反响呈两极化。2006年，一次军事政变将他赶下了台。他信如今正流亡海外，一旦回国就会面临牢狱之灾。然而，他还是让一个占主导地位的执政党巩固了权力，这个政党已经经历了两次由法院授权的解散令，以及其他法律上的挑战，但仍然存在。
Thailand’s oldest political party, the Democrat Party, last won an election in 1992; its conservative, pro-bureaucracy bases in Bangkok and the south are not big enough for it to secure a national majority. And this very sore loser is now playing a central role in trying to oust an elected government. Its members have resigned from Parliament and joined the demonstrators who are calling for an end to the broader “Thaksin regime” and claiming that pro-Thaksin politicians have been buying rural voters.
泰国历史最悠久的政党民主党上一次获得选举胜利还是1992年，它在曼谷和南部支持官僚体制的选民，人数不足以让其成为泰国的多数党。现在，这位气急败坏的失败者正在试图推翻民选政府的行动中，担任着核心角色。它的成员纷纷从议会辞职，加入示威者的队伍，呼吁终结获得更广泛支持的的“他信政权”，还声称支持他信的政客们一直在收买农村地区的选民。
But the protesters are failing to grasp that the Shinawatra family is simply the astute beneficiary of seismic changes in Thailand’s political economy. Although money undoubtedly plays a role in all Thai elections, Mr. Thaksin, Ms. Yingluck and their parties have built up a huge and genuine following, especially in the very populous northern and northeastern parts of the country.
但抗议者们却没能明白，西那瓦家族只是泰国政治经济巨变的一个精明的受益者。虽然金钱无疑在泰国的所有选举中发挥了作用，但他信、英拉和他们的政党已经如假包换地打造了一个庞大的支持群体，特别是在泰国人口稠密的北部和东北部。
Full-time farmers hardly exist in these regions any more. They have become urbanized villagers: provincials only on paper, who have migrated to work in greater Bangkok but vote in their home provinces. General elections in Thailand are now determined by some 16 million or more urbanized villagers, who make up around a third of the total electorate.
这些地区已几乎不再有以务农为生的人了。他们已经成了城市化的农民，所谓的农村人身份仅存于纸面，他们已经迁徙到大曼谷地区工作，但仍在家乡投票。泰国的大选如今由大约1600万或更多的城市化农民来决定，他们大约构成了选民总数的三分之一。
Urbanized villagers have incomes not much lower than their urban middle-class counterparts, but they are often in debt, have insecure employment and have to work more than one job. Unlike the villagers of old, they are not interested in subsistence agriculture; they want to enjoy the benefits of consumer society and send their children to university. Like most Democrat Party supporters, they dream of socio-economic advancement, yet for more than a decade, the pro-Thaksin parties have locked in their support with populist policies such as subsidized healthcare programs and village-development funds to promote small businesses.
城市化农民的收入不比城市中产阶级的收入低多少，但他们常常会欠债，工作不稳定，还要做一份以上的工作。和从前的农民不同，这些人对以务农为生不感兴趣；他们想要享受消费社会的好处，送他们的下一代上大学。和多数的民主党支持者一样，他们也梦想着在社会经济层面向上发展。十多年以来，亲他信的政党推行了民粹主义政策来锁定他们的支持，这些政策包括补贴医疗计划和支持小企业的乡村发展基金。
The current antigovernment protests in Bangkok are the last gasp of Thai dynastic paternalism. They reflect the determination of the old elite and its middle-class allies to check the rising power of the formerly rural electorate by bringing down the Yingluck administration. They are calling for the creation of a “people’s assembly,” an unelected temporary governing body representing different occupational groups that would oversee a process of political reform — in effect, a dictatorship of the capital over the rest of the country.
如今曼谷的反政府游行正是泰国王朝式家长制所做的最后挣扎。它们反映了，旧精英阶层及其中产阶级盟友决心通过推翻英拉政府，来遏制前农村选民群体日益增长的权力。他们呼吁成立一个“人民委员会”，一个代表了不同职业群体、非民选的临时政府，由它监督政治改革的进程。实际上，这就是首都对泰国其他地区的一种专政。
The protests are taking place in a climate of growing national anxiety. This nervousness has several sources: fears about royal succession, as the long reign of King Bhumibol Adulyadej approaches its twilight; fears about secession, as one of the world’s worst insurgencies by Malay-Muslim separatists continues to rage in the southern provinces; fears about alienation, as pro-Thaksin groups have established thousands of “red-shirt villages” in the increasingly psychologically isolated north and northeast — and above all, fears among Bangkok’s middle classes about being outvoted by low-class urbanized villagers.
抗议活动的发生正值泰国上下的不安情绪日益增长。这种不安有多种原因：在位已久的普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)国王健康状况每况愈下，人们因而担忧王位的继承；随着马来穆斯林分裂分子继续在泰国南部发起世所罕见的叛乱，人们担忧国家会分裂；随着亲他信组织在精神层面日益孤立的北部和东北部建立起数以千计的“红衫村”，人们担心被边缘化。最主要的则是，曼谷中产阶级担心在选举中被社会地位较低的城市化农民击败。
It was all so unnecessary. Just a few weeks ago, Ms. Yingluck was governing Thailand with the tacit support of the military and the monarchy. Her government had numerous failings, but for two and a half years there had been no serious political protests and the country’s deep divisions had been largely papered over.
这完全没有必要。仅仅数周前，英拉还在军队和王室心照不宣的支持下治理着泰国。她的政府有很多的缺陷，但两年半的时间里并没有出现成规模的政治抗议活动，这个国家深层的割裂也基本被裱糊了起来。
A new pact among the pro-Thaksin and pro-royalist elites is urgently needed. This time, however, it should be broadened to engage the wider public. More urbanized villagers should be allowed to register to vote in and around Bangkok. Power should be decentralized in favor of the provinces, with some form of autonomy granted to the troubled south.
亲他信和亲王室的精英阶层之间急需达成一项新协议。但这一次，应有更多的民众参与其中。应该允许更多城市化农民在曼谷及周边地区登记投票。应该分权，以惠及首都以外的地区，而问题重重的南部也应该获得某种形式的自治。
Instead of occupying ministry buildings in Bangkok, the Democrats would do well to make serious attempts to woo provincial voters. Urbanized villagers cannot be wished away by the Bangkok elites; they rightly expect to share the benefits of Thailand’s remarkable economic success. When they no longer are treated as underdogs, their pragmatic ties with pro-Thaksin parties will wither — and Thailand will stop being two democracies and become one unified nation.
相对于占领曼谷的政府大楼，泰国民主党人为了自己的利益，更应该认真采取行动，向外地的选民示好。曼谷的精英们不能无视城市化农民的存在；他们完全有权分享泰国的非凡经济成就带来的种种好处。当他们不再被当做弱势群体的那一天，他们与亲他信政党的以务实为目的的联系就会失去活力，到那时，泰国就不会再是两个民主国家，而成为一个统一的国家。