BANGKOK — Thailand’s strict laws making it a crime to insult the monarchy entered new territory on Monday, when a factory worker was charged with disparaging the king’s dog.
曼谷——根据严格的泰国法律，侮辱王室是一种犯罪。本周一，当一名工厂员工被指控诋毁国王的狗时，这项法律进入了一个新境界。
In a case brought in a Thai military court, the worker, Thanakorn Siripaiboon, was charged with making a “sarcastic” Internet post related to the king’s pet. He also faces separate charges of sedition and insulting the king.
泰国一所军事法院受理了这名叫做坦那孔·斯里帕蓬(Thanakorn Siripaiboon)的工人被控在网上发帖“讽刺”国王的宠物的案件。此外，他还面临煽动叛乱和亵渎国王的指控。
Mr. Thanakorn could face a total of 37 years in prison for his social media posts, highlighting what has become a feverish campaign to protect the monarchy and rebuff critics of the country’s military rulers.
因为在社交媒体上发布这样的帖子，坦那孔可能面临总共37年监禁。此事突显了泰国正在进行的一项狂热运动，包括对泰国王室的捍卫，以及对那些批评军事统治的人的打击。
The precise insult toward the royal canine was not divulged by the military, according to the suspect’s lawyer, Anon Numpa.
嫌疑人的律师安农·努帕(Anon Numpa)说，军方不肯透露坦那孔对王室宠物犬具体进行了何种侮辱。
Mr. Anon said the boundaries of what has been considered lèse-majesté, as royal insults are known, had expanded drastically in recent years. Last year, a prominent scholar was accused of insulting a king who died 400 years ago. The list of people who have been investigated now includes the American ambassador to Thailand.
安农表示，亵渎王室罪的适用范围近几年来明显扩大。去年，一名著名学者被控侮辱了400年前过世的一位国王。遭到调查的人中如今还包括了美国驻泰国大使。
The law applies to anyone who specifically defames the king, the queen, the heir apparent or the regent, but Mr. Anon said he was incredulous that it could be broadened to include a household pet.
该法律适用于诽谤国王、王后、法定继承人或摄政王的任何人，但安农说，令人难以置信的是，连王室宠物也会包含在内。
“I never imagined they would use the law for the royal dog,” he said. “It’s nonsense.”
“我从来没有想到他们会把这条法律用在王室宠物狗身上，”他说，“真是胡来。”
The next legal step, the lawyer said, would be his client’s indictment, but he added that no time frame had been set by the authorities.
安农表示，接下来的法律步骤是对当事人进行正式起诉，但他说当局还没有提供时间表。
Mr. Thanakorn was arrested at his home in a Bangkok suburb last week and had not been seen until his arraignment on Monday. Among other charges, he is accused of sharing on Facebook allegations of corruption in the military’s construction of a monument to previous kings.
坦那孔上周在曼谷郊区的家中被捕，直到本周一提讯时才露面。他被控的其他罪名包括在Facebook上分享内容，指责军方在修建先王纪念设施时有贪腐行为。
The royal dog in question is Tongdaeng, or Copper, who is widely loved in Thailand.
这只王室宠物狗名叫“通丹”(Tongdaeng)，在泰语里是铜的意思。它在泰国广受喜爱。
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 88, who is also beloved and is ailing in a Bangkok hospital, rescued the mongrel from an alley; in 2002 he wrote a best-selling book about her. The Thai news media use the polite honorific “khun” to describe the dog, a term that roughly translates to ma’am.
现年88岁的泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(King Bhumibol Adulyadej)也受人敬爱，身体欠佳，目前住在曼谷的一所医院里。这只混种狗是他在一条小巷中救出的。2002年时，他写了一本关于通丹的畅销书。泰国新闻媒体使用礼貌敬语“坤”来称呼通丹，意思大致相当于“夫人”。
The book describes Tongdaeng as a “respectful dog, with proper manners.” The king appeared to intend it as an allegory about the importance of respect and etiquette in changing times.
书中称通丹是一只“恭敬有礼的良犬”。国王似乎是想在这本书中寄托寓意，显示在时代变迁中尊重和礼仪的重要性。
Tongdaeng “is humble and knows protocol,” the book’s preface says. “She would always sit lower than the king.”
通丹“恭顺知礼”，这本书的序言中写道。“她总是坐得比国王低一些。”
Despite the unusual nature of the charges against Mr. Thanakorn, there was relatively little discussion about the case on Monday on social media, perhaps because of fears that those who highlighted it might also face charges.
尽管坦那孔遭受的指控相当不同寻常，但本周一社交媒体上对这件事却几乎没有谈论，也许是害怕议论此事也会面临指控。
In the case of the American ambassador, Glyn T. Davies, the Thai police said last week that he was under investigation after he gave a speech to foreign correspondents praising the king but criticizing the “lengthy and unprecedented prison sentences” handed down by Thai military courts on lèse-majesté charges.
至于美国驻泰国大使格林·T·戴维斯(Glyn T. Davies)，泰国警方上周表示正在对他进行调查。之前，戴维斯曾向外国记者发表讲话赞扬了泰国国王，但也对泰国军事法庭就亵渎王室的指控做出“史无前例的长期监禁的判决”提出了批评。
The Thai military seized power in a coup last year and has relentlessly cracked down on challenges to its power, detaining journalists, academics, politicians and students for “attitude adjustment” sessions at military camps. Dissidents are made to sign pledges that allow for financial penalties if they take part in “political activity.”
泰国军方在去年的一次政变之后夺取了政权，之后一直对质疑其权力的人士进行无情镇压，拘捕记者、学者、政界人士和学生，让他们在军营里接受“态度调适”课程。异见者被要求签署承诺书，表示如果参与“政治活动”，愿意接受经济处罚。
Criticism by human rights groups and United Nations bodies has been shrugged off by the military government.
对于人权组织和联合国下属机构的批评，泰国军政府也置若罔闻。
In August, a spokeswoman for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights cited the increase in convictions for insulting the king and the increasingly long prison sentences for the charges, reaching several decades.
今年8月，联合国人权事务高级专员办事处(Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights)的发言人曾谈及泰国被判处亵渎国王的人数增多的现象，以及此类指控刑期越来越长，可达数十年。