With thousands of antigovernment protesters in the streets of Bangkok on Monday, Thailand’s opposition announced a campaign of civil disobedience, including a three-day general strike later this week and a call for businesses to delay paying their taxes.
周一，数千名反政府抗议者聚集在曼谷街头，泰国反对派宣布开展一场公民不服从运动，包括将在本周晚些时候进行持续三天的大罢工，并呼吁企业推迟缴税。
The protests against the government of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra signaled a return to the fractious and volatile politics that destabilized Thailand several years ago. At least four large demonstrations were held simultaneously across Bangkok on Monday, closing schools and stoking fears of clashes between rival groups.
针对总理英拉·西瓦那(Yingluck Shinawatra)政府的抗议表明，几年前让泰国陷入混乱和动荡的那种政治局面再度回归。周一，在曼谷各地，至少有四场大规模示威活动在同时进行，学校被迫关闭，引发了人们对反对团体间发生冲突的担忧。
“I would like to urge all Thais to fight with the people so that a great, absolute and sustainable victory belongs to Thailand,” Suthep Thaugsuban, a protest leader and senior member of the opposition Democrat Party, told a crowd of thousands on Monday.
“我想呼吁所有泰国人一起加入这场抗争，这样的话，一场伟大、彻底、经得起考验的胜利就会属于泰国，”抗议的领导者、反对派民主党高层人士素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)对聚集的数千人说道。
It was not yet clear late on Monday evening whether his call for a general strike Wednesday through Friday would be widely heeded.
特素班呼吁的从周三持续至周五的大罢工是否会得到广泛支持，至周一晚间时尚不清楚。
The initial spark for the protests, which began a week ago, was an amnesty bill proposed by the government that would have eased the return of Thaksin Shinawatra, a polarizing figure who was ousted as prime minister in a 2006 military coup. The lower house of Parliament passed the bill earlier this month, but the Senate decisively rejected it on Monday.
这场抗议始于一周前，最初的导火索是政府提出的一项特赦法案，如获通过，该法案将减少他信·西瓦那(Thaksin Shinawatra)回国的阻碍，这名倍受争议的人物是在2006年的一场军事政变中被赶下台的。泰国议会下院在本月早些时候通过了这部法案，但周一在参议院遭到断然否决。
“The opposition to the amnesty bill has been deep and wide,” said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “It has now escalated into an effort to overthrow the government.”
“特赦法案遭到了激烈、普遍的反对，”位于曼谷的朱拉隆功大学安全和国际问题研究中心(Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University)主任提蒂南·蓬苏迪拉克(Thitinan Pongsudhirak)说。“现在抗议已升级为要推翻政府。”
The protests have rattled the government of Ms. Yingluck, Mr. Thaksin’s sister. The prime minister has said repeatedly that if the amnesty bill is defeated, it will not be considered in Parliament again, and she has pleaded with protesters to stop their demonstrations.
抗议让英拉政府颇为不安，英拉是他信的妹妹。英拉总理曾反复表示，如果特赦案未获通过，议会将不会再对其给予重新考虑，她还请求抗议者结束示威活动。
The bill initially angered many of the governing party’s supporters, known as the red shirts, because along with pardoning Mr. Thaksin in the corruption cases he faces, it would have offered amnesty to those responsible for the bloody crackdown on his followers in 2010. But the majority of red shirts appeared to have swung back to the government’s side, and they staged their own rally with tens of thousands of people on Sunday and another in northeastern Thailand on Monday.
特赦法案最初曾惹怒许多执政党支持者，即所谓的红衫军，因为根据该法案，不仅他信面临的腐败指控将被撤销，那些应对2010年血腥镇压他信支持者负责的人也将被赦免。但现在大多数红衫军似乎已转而支持政府，周日，他们也组织了一场数万人参加的集会，周一在泰国东北部举行了另一场集会。
Thai politics, which until recently had enjoyed relative calm under Ms. Yingluck’s more than two years in office, appear to have returned to the polarized and unpredictable deadlock between opponents and supporters of Mr. Thaksin.
在英拉执政两年多以来，泰国政局相对平静，直到最近，该国似乎又回到了反对派和他信支持者之间激烈对立的局面，形成难以预测的僵局。
One of Mr. Thaksin’s main rivals, Sondhi Limthongkul, described the political conflict on Monday as a battle of good and evil. In a measure of the frustration with Thailand’s political problems, he repeated a call to return political power to Thailand’s king. “I think Thailand must suspend the role of politicians for at least two to three years,” he said. He asserted that Mr. Thaksin was exercising power from abroad, including deciding who got major appointments in the government.
他信的主要反对者之一林明达(Sondhi Limthongkul)将周一的政治冲突描述为一场善恶之争。林明达反复要求将政治权力交还给泰国国王，以表达他对泰国政治问题的沮丧程度。“我认为泰国必须在接下来至少两到三年的时间里暂停政客的职权，”他说。他还确定地表示，他信虽在国外，但仍在施展权力，其中就包括决定政府主要职位的人事任命。
Mr. Thaksin, the de facto leader of the governing party, Pheu Thai, has been weakened by the amnesty controversy, Mr. Thitinan said. But Pheu Thai retained strong support, especially in northeastern Thailand, where a third of the electorate lives, Mr. Thitinan said.
提蒂南·蓬苏迪拉克表示，他信是执政党为泰党(Pheu Thai)事实上的领袖，而自特赦案引发的争议一直在削弱他信的权力。但是为泰党仍拥有强大支持，尤其是在泰国东北部，三分之一的选民生活在那里。
Mr. Thaksin is “farther away than ever from coming home,” Mr. Thitinan said. “But the avenues to his return are not totally closed.”
现在他信“更没法回国了，”提蒂南说，“但他回来的道路也没有完全封闭。”