BANGKOK — Thailand’s governing party accused protesters on Tuesday of fomenting anarchy and trying to overthrow the government after thousands of people swarmed the streets of Bangkok, besieging crucial ministries and threatening to take their campaign nationwide.
曼谷——周二，泰国执政党指责抗议者制造混乱局面并试图推翻政府。此前，数千人聚集曼谷街头，包围了关键政府部门，并威胁要把抗议活动推向全国。
In a country that has become less governable amid a grinding and bitter political rivalry, protesters surrounded the Interior Ministry on Tuesday and threatened to cut off power to the Agriculture, Tourism and Transport Ministries. Those actions followed the occupation of the Foreign and Finance Ministries on Monday.
随着泰国的政治斗争持续并愈演愈烈，国家局势也越来越难以控制，抗议者周二包围了内政部，并威胁要切断农业部、旅游部和交通部的供电。而此前，外交部和财政部已于周一被占领。
“Occupying government property cannot be considered anything but insurrection,” said Kokaew Pikulthong, a member of Parliament for the governing party, Pheu Thai.
泰国执政党泰党(Pheu Thai)议员高盖·比古尔通(Kokaew Pikulthong)说，“占领政府办公场所的行为就是一种暴动。”
The party said it had filed a petition with the attorney general’s office accusing protesters of trying to overthrow the government. Demonstrators, Mr. Kokaew said, “want Thailand to descend into anarchy.”
泰党称，它已向司法部长办公室控诉抗议者试图推翻政府。高盖说，抗议者“希望泰国陷入无政府状态”。
Protest leaders, led by top opposition figures, are pursuing the seemingly quixotic goal of eradicating from the country the influence of Thaksin Shinawatra, the tycoon and former prime minister who has been in exile since a 2008 conviction for abuse of power. Mr. Thaksin remains very popular in the countryside and his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, is the country’s prime minister.
抗议活动的领导者是反对派头号人物，他们正在追求一个看似荒唐的目标，即彻底根除他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)对泰国的影响。他信是一个商业大亨，也是泰国前总理。2008年，自从他滥用职权的罪名成立后，他就一直在流亡。他信在乡村地区仍然很受欢迎，而他的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)是现任总理。
The protests, the largest since demonstrations in 2010 that ended in a bloody military crackdown, have been led by Suthep Thaugsuban, who until recently was the deputy leader of the opposition Democrat Party.
2010年的抗议以血腥的军事镇压告终，此次抗议是那次以后规模最大的一次，其领导者是素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)，直到最近，他都一直是反对派民主党(Democrat Party)的一位重要领导人。
“I insist that this is the best method to overthrow Thaksin’s system without bloodshed,” Mr. Suthep said in a Facebook message posted Tuesday. “We will just come and sit here.”
“我坚持认为，这是在没有流血冲突的情况下消除他信体系影响力的最好办法，”素贴周二在Facebook上的一条讯息中说。“我们只会过来，然后坐在这里。”
A criminal court in Bangkok issued an arrest warrant on Tuesday for Mr. Suthep, who is accused of breaching the peace and invasion of property.
周二，曼谷的一个刑事法庭以破坏和平和侵犯财产的罪名对素贴发布了逮捕令。
In a speech to his supporters late Tuesday, Mr. Suthep called on protesters to “besiege” all ministries in Bangkok and government offices nationwide on Wednesday.
素贴周二晚间在对支持者发表讲话时，呼吁抗议者周三“包围”曼谷的所有政府部门及全国各地政府的办公场所。
The apparent impunity of protesters and the inability of security forces to stop them from disrupting the heart of the government’s operations reflected a polarized society where the government cannot or will not maintain order.
抗议者似乎无需承担任何责任，而保安部队又无力阻止他们扰乱政府运作的核心，这种情况反映出，这个两极化社会的政府或者是没有能力维持秩序，或者根本不愿意维持秩序。
As they have numerous times in Thailand’s tumultuous recent history, foreign governments, including that of the United States, advised their citizens to avoid protest areas. Although protests until now have remained peaceful, the United States Embassy warned that they could turn “confrontational and escalate into violence.”
美国等国家的政府都建议他们的公民避开抗议地区；在泰国动荡的近期历史中，他们曾多次这么做。虽然截至目前抗议活动还是和平的，但美国大使馆警告称，这些抗议很可能会发展成“冲突，并升级为暴力冲突”。
Many areas of Bangkok, a vast metropolis of more than 10 million people, were unaffected by the protests.
曼谷是一座有着1000多万人口的面积广阔的大都市，它的很多地区都没有受到抗议影响。
Perhaps more than anyone, Mr. Suthep embodies the continuing cycles of unrest in Thailand, where, once out of power, politicians have taken to the streets, a pattern that has persisted since Mr. Thaksin was removed by the military in 2006.
素贴或许比任何人都更能代表泰国持续不断的动荡。在泰国，政客们一旦下台就会走上街头，自他信2006年被军方赶下台后，这种模式就一直存在。
Mr. Suthep was deputy prime minister in 2010 when he signed an order for the military to disperse Mr. Thaksin’s “red shirt” supporters, including some who were armed, from a central shopping district that they had occupied. The crackdown that ensued resulted in dozens of deaths, an episode that civic leaders are urging both sides to avoid.
素贴是2010年的副总理，他当时签署了一项命令，让军方驱散占领一个中心购物区的他信“红衫军”支持者，其中有些人还带着武器。随后的镇压行动导致数十人丧生，公民领导人目前一直在敦促双方避免这种情况的发生。
Mr. Thaksin’s party is the most successful in modern Thai political history and has won every national election since its formation 15 years ago. The two times his party has been out of power in recent years was a result of the 2006 military coup and a 2008 court ruling that disbanded the party. (The party reformulated under another name and returned to power in 2011.)
他信的政党是泰国现代政治史上最成功的一个，从15年前成立以来，它已取得了每次全国大选的胜利。近年来，他的党派曾两度失势，一次是因为2006年的军事政变，另一次是因为2008年法院下令解散该政党。（随后该党以另一个名字重新成立，并于2011年再度掌权。）
Opposition lawmakers in a debate in Parliament on Tuesday accused Ms. Yingluck, the prime minister, of being Mr. Thaksin’s nominee.
反对派议员周二在议会的辩论中指责总理英拉是被他信提名的。
Despite the scale of the protests — The Bangkok Post estimated that the crowds on Sunday reached around 400,000 people — the hazy goals of protest leaders have alienated some business leaders and intellectuals. And in a possible sign that the protests may not have the backing of the mainstream opposition, Mr. Suthep and the protest leaders were chided, albeit gently, by some opposition members of Parliament.
虽然此次抗议规模巨大——据《曼谷邮报》(Bangkok Post)估计，周日聚集的人群达40万左右——抗议领导人的目标模糊却疏远了一些商业领袖和知识分子。泰国议会的一些反对派成员对素贴和抗议领导人表示了指责，虽然他们的指责比较温和，这也许表明了，此次抗议活动可能并没有得到主流反对派的支持。
Korn Chatikavanij, a former finance minister and senior member of the Democrat Party, criticized the government on Tuesday for not listening to the “voice of the people.”
周二，泰国前财政部长、民主党高级成员空·乍滴甲瓦尼(Korn Chatikavanij)指责政府没有倾听“民众的声音”。
“But it doesn’t mean that we agree with what the protesters have done,” he said.
他说，“但这并不意味着我们认同抗议者的行为。”