In a trim garden outside her pink plaster house, 62-year-old Amnuay Warayot recounted her past life. Before moving here, she lived in a slum by the trains, where electricity and water were hard to come by and the wooden homes were no match for the northeast Thai rainy season. The man who gave her all this, she tells me, has won over her heart. His name is Thaksin Shinawatra, and he’s the former prime minister.
在她粉红色石灰房子外的一个整洁的花园里，现年62岁的安蕾·瓦拉越(Amnuay Warayot)回忆起了她以前的生活。搬到这里之前，安蕾住在铁路附近的一个贫民窟里，很难用上电和水，木头结构的房子根本捱不过泰国东北部的雨季。她告诉我，让她拥有了眼前这一切的人赢得了她的心。他的名字叫他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)，是泰国前总理。
Thaksin is at the very center of Thailand’s political turmoil, and the violent street protests this month make that very clear. Antigovernment protesters, the traditional elite, demand an end to what they call the “Thaksin regime” – which, mind you, is a democratically elected government – and they’re proposing an unelected people’s council instead.
他信是目前泰国政治风暴的中心，本月爆发的街头暴力抗议已经充分显示了这一点。反政府的抗议者是传统精英，他们要求终结他们所称的“他信政权”——别忘了，现政府是民主选举产生的——提出用一个非民选的人民委员会取而代之。
When I was living in northeast Thailand from 2010 until 2012, I was reporting on the political interests of Thaksin’s followers, known as Red Shirts, who are largely farmers and laborers from the north and northeast.
2010年到2012年，我住在泰国东北部，负责报道被称为“红衫军”的他信追随者的政治影响力，他们主要是泰国北部和东北部地区的农民和劳工。
Setting up to sell snacks at the nearby night market, Amnuay rattled off a list of Thaksin’s policies that had changed her life: the housing funds that brought her a secure home, nearly free healthcare, community loans. She told me she was sure the recently elected prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra – Thaksin’s little sister — would provide much of the same.
安蕾一边为去附近的夜市卖小吃做着准备，一边滔滔不绝地列举了一连串改变她生活的他信政策：住房基金——让她有了一个稳定的住所、几乎免费的医疗服务，还有社区贷款。她告诉我，她相信最近当选的总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)——他信的妹妹——会延续他信的大多数做法。
Thaksin has been courting the rural and working poor with populist policies for over a decade. In turn, Thaksin’s followers have seen how their political participation can encourage policies that support the lower class.
十多年来，他信一直在用民粹主义的政策来取悦穷苦的农民和劳工。反过来，他信的追随者也看到，他们的政治参与可以促成更多支持底层民众的政策。
Poverty in Thailand dropped rapidly while Thaksin was in power, and formerly poor northeasterners began rising into the middle class. I was living in Khon Kaen, the regional center of the northeast, and the city transformed before my eyes: High-rise hotels shot up in months, as did new university buildings and mega-malls. That’s not all due to Thaksin, but for some it can feel that way.
泰国的贫困率在他信执政期间大幅下降，在泰国东北部地区，过去的穷人已经开始上升为中产阶级。我当时住在东北部地区的中心坤敬市，亲眼见证了这个城市的巨变：在几个月的时间里拔地而起的高层酒店，以及新的大学教学楼和超大的购物中心。尽管这并不完全是他信的功劳，但对于一些人来说，他们正是这样觉得的。
There’s a twist to Thaksin’s power, though. He runs the show from home, and home is in Dubai. The billionaire tycoon led the country from 2001 until 2006, when he was ousted in a coup. He was later convicted of massive corruption and lives in self-imposed exile to avoid prison, but Thaksin-backed parties continue to win elections.
不过他信的政权也有过波折。如今，他在迪拜的家中遥控着泰国局势。这名亿万富翁2001年开始掌权，直到2006年在一次军事政变中被推翻。他后来被判犯有金额巨大的腐败罪行，为了避免入狱选择了自我放逐。不过，他信支持的政党仍然在大选中胜出。
Thaksin’s control of the masses, however, has sparked the fierce opposition of the elite. They fear his threat to the traditional status quo, and they want their power back by any means.
然而，他信对平民的控制已经引发了精英阶层的猛烈反对。他们害怕他信会对传统的现状构成威胁，想要不惜一切代价夺回权力。
Antigovernment protesters first took to the streets last month to oppose a blanket amnesty bill that would have whitewashed political crimes committed since 2004, clearing the way for Thaksin’s return to Thai politics. The bill was dropped, but protests escalated. Now the protesters aim to overthrow the government and help handpick a new one.
反政府抗议者上个月最初走上街头是为了反对一项大规模赦免法案，该法案会赦免2004年之后的政治犯罪，也会为他信回归泰国政坛扫清障碍。那份法案已被搁置，但抗议却升级了。现在，抗议者打算推翻政府，帮助挑选一个新政府。
The “hilariously misnamed” Democrats, the main opposition party aligned with the protesters, are giving up on electoral politics, too. They announced their members would resign from Parliament, and they are unsatisfied with the prime minister’s recent call for fresh elections to decide the direction of the country. The Democrats haven’t won a national election in more than twenty years, and everyone knows the Thaksin-backed party will win again.
名字仿佛有些不恰当的民主党是站在抗议者一边的主要反对党，这个党已经放弃了选举政治。他们宣布，该党党员将会从议会辞职。总理最近呼吁重新举行大选进而决定国家方向，但民主党对此番呼吁并不满意。民主党已经有20多年没赢得过全国大选了，所有人都知道，他信支持的政党将会再次胜选。
What’s so devastating about these protests is that just behind this tug of war, the Thai government and its supporters are signaling that electoral democracy is gaining traction among the majority in Thailand – that is, if Yingluck can hold her ground and Thaksin can remain at a safe distance.
就这些抗议活动而言，最让人难以置信的是，在这场拉锯战背后，泰国政府及其支持者都表示，选举式民主正在泰国赢得多数人的支持——当然前提是英拉能坚守立场，他信能继续保持安全的距离。
For one thing, the Red Shirt obsession with Thaksin appears to be lifting, however slowly. When I was working in Thailand, the mainstream media showed Red Shirts little respect and often dismissed them as Thaksin’s ignorant pawns.Amnuay hung a red flag from her house and counted herself among the self-named “pro-democracy” group that valued equal rights for all. But she – and millions like her – didn’t do the Red Shirts any favors by arguing that Thaksin should be able to skirt the corruption charges that kept him in exile.
一方面，红衫军对他信的偏执似乎正在减弱，无论速度多么缓慢。我在泰国工作的时候，主流媒体对红衫军几乎毫无尊重，常常把他们描绘为他信的无知爪牙。安蕾在房子外面挂了一面红旗，还把自己当成一个“民运”组织的成员。这是她自己命名的一个组织，倡导人人都有平等的权利。不过，她——以及数百万像她一样的人——并不认为应该免除他信的腐败指控，进而让他结束流亡，在这一点上并没有给过红衫军帮过任何忙。
When the government announced the blanket amnesty bill this October, though, Red Shirts also voiced their opposition. The bill would have granted amnesty to the leaders responsible for the killing of more than 90 Red Shirt demonstrators who were rallying for a democratic election in 2010.
泰国政府今年10月公布大范围的赦免法案时，就连红衫军也表达了反对。根据这项法案，应该对90多名红衫军抗议者遇害负责的领导人也会被赦免。这些示威者是在2010年为呼吁民主选举而举行集会时遇害的。
For the first time in the history of the Red Shirt movement, large factions broke from a Thaksin-backed policy. Red Shirts made it clear that they valued judicial progress on the whole over the return of their de-facto leader.
这是红衫军历史上第一次有这么多人反对他信支持的政策。红衫军已经表态，他们更看重整体的司法进步，而不是事实上的领袖他信的回归。
And, in recent months, public prosecutors slapped murder charges on a former prime minister and his deputy for authorizing the military to open fire on those Red Shirt protesters in 2010. This indictment is unprecedented in Thailand. No Thai leader has ever been held to account for the deaths of demonstrators — they have gotten off scot-free for murders in 1973, 1976 and 1992, most recently.
最近几个月，泰国检方对一名前总理和他的副手提出了谋杀指控，理由是他们在2010年曾授权军方向红衫军抗议者开火。此类指控在泰国是前所未有的。从未有任何泰国领袖因为示威者的死亡而被追究责任，1973年、1976年和1992年，都曾有泰国领导人在杀害示威者后逍遥法外。
Yingluck made a huge mistake by ramming a bill through Parliament with such widespread opposition, and it could help if she openly admitted as much. But her party’s response to the uproar ultimately demonstrated respect for the opposition and, more broadly, representative democracy. Within a week, Yingluck had announced that her party would drop the proposal. “My government will not do anything contrary to the people’s feelings,” she said, urging a swift end to the street protests.
英拉推动议会通过这个遭到广泛反对的法案，此举是一个严重错误，如果她公开承认错误，可能对局势有所助益。不过她的政党对示威作出的回应，终究还是显示了对反对派的尊重，以及对代议民主的尊重。英拉在抗议爆发一周之内就宣布其政党将放弃这个议案。她在呼吁尽快停止抗议时说，“我的政府不会做任何让民众反感的事。”
The tensions between Thailand’s lower class and traditional elite will not die down with the end of these protests, no matter the outcome. I remember the translator’s discomfort when I picked her up to meet Amnuay. The 20-year-old university student studying for a business degree was shivering as she pulled herself onto the back of my bike. She told me she was scared of talking politics with Red Shirts. Family, friends and journalists had all indicated that Red Shirts were violent and uninformed – two words I never would have used to describe the hopeful grandmother we met that afternoon. Social shifts like this take time, and it may be a while before the old establishment begins to accept the political voice of the rising middle class.
无论结果如何，泰国底层和传统精英之间的紧张关系都不会随着这些抗议的结束而终止。我还记得，当我带着一名翻译陪我与安蕾见面时，这名翻译的不安。这名读商科的20岁大学生坐上我的摩托车后座时，浑身颤抖。她告诉我，她害怕与红衫军谈论政治。家人、朋友和记者都说，红衫军粗暴无知——可我绝对不会用这两个词来形容我们那天下午见到的那位充满期待的老奶奶。这样的社会变迁需要时间，或许还需要再等一等，旧体制才会开始倾听崛起的中产阶级发出的政治声音。
For a representative democracy to thrive in Thailand, there is work to be done as Thai politics expands to include both an emboldened lower class and an agitated elite. As a leading political academic noted in the Wall Street Journal, majority rule must accommodate more minority concerns, the courts must be impartial, and widespread corruption must be addressed.
要想让代议民主在泰国蓬勃发展，还有许多工作要做，让泰国政治更加包容，既能容纳更大胆的底层民众，也能容纳警觉的精英阶层。就像一位著名的政治学者在《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)撰文指出的，多数派的统治必须更多地照顾少数派的关切，法庭必须不偏不倚，必须着手应对广泛存在的腐败问题。
But it seems that there is room for hope. Alongside these violent protests, we’ve seen progress in public prosecution, an electorate that values justice, and a government capable of ultimately respecting the will of the people over the impunity of the power brokers. That might be the strongest sign this decade that democracy is taking hold in Thailand. If Yingluck can maintain control and admit her mistake, here’s to hoping that Thaksin will keep his distance to allow for compromise and reconciliation.
但是，我们似乎还有乐观的空间。在这些暴力抗议之外，我们看到了检方公诉的进步、选民看重公正，而且政府也能够最终尊重人民的意愿，而没有赦免一个权力掮客。这可能是这十年中能够证明民主正在泰国扎根的最强迹象。如果英拉能够保住权力并承认错误，那就让我们祝愿他信能够与泰国保持距离，从而促成妥协与和解吧。