BANGKOK — The Thai police on Monday expanded their investigation into a deadly Bangkok shrine bombing, seizing explosives from a suburban apartment building and warning that the group they are pursuing had been preparing “quite a lot of bombs.”
曼谷——泰国警方周一扩大了宗教圣地爆炸案的调查范围。他们在一个郊区公寓楼里起获一些爆炸物，并提醒公众，正在追捕的犯罪团伙此前正准备制作“大量炸弹”。
Yet two weeks after the attack, which killed 20 people, the authorities have remained vague on the possible motives of the perpetrators and have refused to classify the blast as terrorism, despite what security experts say was a clear intent to cause maximum civilian casualties.
但是，这起导致20人死亡的袭击事件发生两周后，泰国当局在行凶者犯罪动机上依然含糊其辞，他们拒绝将爆炸事件定性为恐怖袭击，尽管多名安全专家表示，凶手的目的明显是制造最大程度的平民伤亡。
The Aug. 17 blast at Erawan — a popular Hindu shrine in the heart of the city — was the worst bombing in Thailand in decades.
8月17日在四面佛寺周边发生的爆炸，是泰国几十年来最严重的一起爆炸事件。位于曼谷市中心的四面佛寺是很受欢迎的印度教圣地。
Thailand’s military government has decreed that officials call the attack a “disturbance” and ordered all government agencies “to avoid using the terms terrorism or sabotage.”
泰国军政府已经下令各级官员将这起袭击称为“骚乱”，还命令所有政府机构“避免使用‘恐怖主义’或‘蓄意破坏”等描述。
Commentators in Thailand have criticized numerous missteps in the investigation, including the showing on national television of what appeared to be a suicide vest when the police were revealing evidence seized from an apartment on Saturday. The police later said that the vest had nothing to do with the case.
这次调查中出现的很多差错受到了泰国评论者的指责，比如警方在展示周日从一间公寓起获的物证时，在国家电视台上展示了一件看起来像是自杀式炸弹背心的衣物。但后来警方又表示，这件背心和爆炸案没有任何关系。
The national chief of police had offered a reward of about $84,000 for assistance in finding the perpetrators of the bombing, money that he said had come from his own pocket and that of a friend. On Monday, he announced that the money would be awarded to the police themselves. Officers working on the case deserved the cash, he said.
泰国警察总长之前为抓捕爆炸案罪犯悬赏约8.4万美金，他表示赏金是由他自己和一位朋友共同提供的。周一，他宣布赏金将被授予泰国警方。他表示，这些钱是为侦破这起案件而辛勤工作的警官们应得的。
The authorities issued two warrants on Monday, including one for Wanna Suansan, 27, a woman from a Muslim area in southern Thailand whose family said she had married a Turk and moved to Turkey. Just hours after the release of her name and photograph, Ms. Wanna’s family said she had moved to Turkey months before the shrine attack.
周一，泰国当局签发了两条逮捕令，一条是针对一名27岁的女性万纳·苏安赞(Wanna Suansan)，她来自泰国南部一个穆斯林聚居区，她的家人表示，万纳嫁给了一名土耳其人，已经移居土耳其。在警方公布她的名字和照片刚刚几个小时，万纳的家人就对外表示，她在爆炸事件发生几个月前就已经到土耳其了。
Ibrahim Komkham, the headman of the village in southern Thailand where Ms. Wanna’s family lives, said that she had spoken to him by phone, telling him she had left the apartment in June and did not understand why the police thought she was a suspect.
万纳的家人在泰国南部居住的村庄的村长易卜拉欣·科姆汉姆(Ibrahim Komkham)表示，万纳已经和他通过电话，并告诉他，自己在6月已经离开那间公寓，不知道为何警方会将她指为犯罪嫌疑人。
Ms. Wanna was willing to come back to Thailand to prove her innocence, he said. He quoted her as saying she would “surrender anywhere, anytime.”
他表示，万纳愿意回泰国，以证明自己的清白。他还引用她的原话表示，她愿意“随时随地投案”。
The police said they posted the warrant for Ms. Wanna’s arrest after they raided a house late on Sunday where they found gunpowder and urea fertilizer, among other items.
警方表示，他们周日晚间对一所房子进行突击检查，在里面发现了火药和尿素及其他物品，之后对万纳发出了搜捕令。
In a separate raid on Saturday, the police arrested a foreign man and seized bomb-making materials, including fuses, pipes and ball bearings of the kind that they said were used in the shrine attack.
在周六进行的另一项抓捕行动中，泰国警方逮捕了一名外籍男子，起获了一些制作炸弹的材料，包括引信、管子、滚珠轴承，并表示这些材料和四面佛爆炸案中使用的相同。
The suspect arrested on Saturday had a fake Turkish passport. The police have declined to disclose his nationality, or whether they know it.
周六抓获的嫌疑人持有伪造的土耳其护照。警方拒绝透露他的国籍，也没有透露警方是否掌握这一信息。
Police officials said that information gained from him had helped them discover the apartment that was raided on Sunday night.
警方官员表示，从这名嫌疑人口中取得的情报，帮助他们找到了周日晚间进行突击搜查的那间公寓。
“We found evidence that indicated the preparation to produce quite a lot of bombs,” said Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung, Thailand’s national chief of police. “We are concerned.”
“我们找到的证据显示，犯罪团伙正为制作大量炸弹做准备，”泰国警察总长颂育·蓬潘孟上将(Gen. Somyot Poompanmoung)说道，“对此我们感到担忧。”