Anti-government protesters raided the compound of Thailand’s Finance Ministry and entered the grounds of the Foreign Ministry on Monday in the latest escalation of a long-running battle between supporters and opponents of Thaksin Shinawatra, the billionaire former prime minister whose party has a commanding majority in Parliament and determined opponents in Bangkok.
泰国反政府抗议者周一占领了财政部，并进入了外交部大院，这是前富豪总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的支持者与反对者之间长期斗争的最近一次升级，他信所在党派在议会中占压倒性多数席位，但曼谷也有其坚定的反对者。
Tens of thousands of protesters, who on Sunday staged one of Thailand’s largest demonstrations in years, split into a dozen groups early on Monday and marched through Bangkok chanting “Get out!” — apparently in reference to Mr. Thaksin’s sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, the current prime minister, and to others in Mr. Thaksin’s circle.
成千上万的抗议者在周日发动了泰国近年来最大的一起抗议活动，周一早些时候抗议者分成几组，喊着“滚出去！”的口号在曼谷市游行，这一口号明显针对的是他信的妹妹、现任总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)和他信圈内的其他人。
The takeover of the Finance Ministry recalled previous protests against Mr. Thaksin and his allies in 2008, when demonstrators occupied and shut down the prime minister’s office and Bangkok’s main international airport.
这次占领财政部让人回想起2008年针对他信及其盟友的抗议活动，当时游行抗议者占领并关闭了总理办公室以及曼谷最大的国际机场。
Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister who is one of the leaders of the protest, led the takeover of the Finance Ministry on Monday, shouting instructions to protesters from atop a large truck.
前副总理、抗议活动领导人之一素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)领导了周一占领财政部的行动，他站在一辆大卡车上向抗议者喊着命令。
“Everyone get in the building!” Mr. Suthep said as his supporters blew ear-piercing whistles. The protesters eventually turned off the ministry’s electricity after he urged them to do so, “so that the police will not receive their daily allowance.”
素贴喊道：“大家都进去！”他的支持者吹着刺耳的口哨。最后，抗议者在他的敦促下切断了财政部的电源，“这样警察就拿不到他们的每日津贴了。”
By late afternoon, protesters could be seen napping and snacking in two of the ministry’s conference rooms. By evening, they were starting to camp out in the courtyard. Riot police officers have been deployed in Bangkok for several weeks, but no officers were visible in the compound.
到下午晚些时候，能看到抗议者在财政部的两个会议室里睡觉和吃东西。晚上，他们开始在财政部的院子里扎营。虽然防爆警察已经部署在曼谷好几周了，但在财政部院子里没看到有警察。
Mr. Suthep said protesters had chosen to occupy the Finance Ministry because it is at the heart of the government.
素贴说，抗议者选择占领财政部是因为这里是政府的心脏。
“From now on, this government can no longer transfer money,” he said. “Not a single coin will be used by the Thaksin regime anymore.”
他说：“从现在起，这个政府不能再转移资金。他信统治集团将再也动用不了一分钱。”
Later in the day, other protesters had also reached the grounds of the Foreign Ministry but had not entered the main building. There were also plans to stay overnight in the Foreign Ministry’s courtyard, organizers said.
当天晚些时候，其他抗议者也到达了外交部的院子，但没有进入主楼。抗议组织者说，也有在外交部院里过夜的计划。
Mr. Suthep has not detailed specific goals for the protest, but he has said he would not be satisfied by the dissolution of Parliament or by the resignation of members of the government led by Ms. Yingluck.
素贴还没有给出这次抗议活动的具体目标，但他说，他不会满足于解散议会或是英拉领导的政府成员辞职。
“We will not stop fighting until the Thaksin regime is entirely eradicated from Thailand,” he told the crowd on Sunday.
他在周日对一群人说：“在他信统治集团被彻底清除出泰国之前，我们不会罢休。”
Mr. Thaksin, who has lived overseas since a conviction for abuse of power in 2008, maintains strong support in the populous northern and northeastern provinces of Thailand. Many analysts, including some of his opponents, say his party, Pheu Thai, would most likely win again if fresh elections were called.
他信曾在2008年被判犯有滥用职权罪，之后他一直住在国外，但在泰国人口众多的北部和东北部的邦中，他信的支持率依然很高。包括一些他信的反对者在内的很多分析人士认为，如果举行新的大选，他信的泰党(Pheu Thai)很可能会再次获胜。
Mr. Thaksin’s opponents say they are concerned that he has accumulated too much power in Thailand and are angry that he appears to be making policy decisions from abroad.
他信的反对者说，他们担心他信在泰国积累了过多的权力，而且他们对他似乎从海外制定国内政策表示愤怒。
The current protests began several weeks ago, in what proved to be a successful effort to force the government to withdraw a wide-reaching amnesty bill that would have eased Mr. Thaksin’s return to Thailand. But to the chagrin of some business associations in the country, which fear economic fallout from the protests, the demonstrations have continued despite the amnesty bill’s defeat.
这次抗议活动从几周前就已开始，并已经成功地迫使政府撤回一项广泛的赦免法案，该法案会让他信回国变得更加容易。但是，让一些泰国商业协会感到懊恼的是，虽然赦免法案已被击败，但示威活动仍在继续，商业组织担心抗议活动可能给泰国经济带来的影响。
Independent analysts have criticized what they say appears to be an open-ended protest. “The protest leaders need to clarify their demands,” Yuttaporn Issarachai, the dean of political science at Sukhothai Thammathirat Open University, said Monday on Thai television.
独立分析人士对此提出批评，他们称这似乎是一场无止境的抗议。素可泰塔馬提拉开放大学(Sukhothai Thammathirat Open University)政治学系教授尤塔彭·伊萨拉扎(Yuttaporn Issarachai)周一在泰国电视台上说：“抗议活动的领导人需要明确提出他们的要求。”
Mr. Yuttaporn said he worried about the possibility of clashes between rival protesters. Thousands of government supporters have gathered at a sports stadium in Bangkok.
尤塔彭说，他担心敌对的抗议者之间会发生冲突。成千上万的政府支持者已经聚集在曼谷一家体育场内。
Mr. Thaksin, who was prime minister from 2001 until the military removed him from power in a coup d'état in 2006, cemented his support in the northern rural areas through policies such as universal health care and microloans to villagers.
他信从2001年开始担任总理，直到2006年发生军事政变将他推下台，在执政期间，他用诸如全民医疗和给村民提供小额贷款等做法，在北部的农村地区巩固了自己得到的支持。
Ms. Yingluck has continued to put populist policies in place in her two and a half years in power. Some of those programs have come at great cost to the country’s finances. News services reported Monday that the government was having trouble finding enough buyers for 75 billion baht, or $2.3 billion, in bonds that it needs to sell to finance a program that pays farmers well above market price for rice.
英拉上台两年半以来，一直在继续推行这些民粹主义政策。其中一些项目已经成为泰国财政的巨大负担。新闻媒体周一报道称，政府正在为一笔约23亿美元（约合140亿元人民币）的债券找到足够多的买家发愁，政府需要这笔钱为一个以远高于市价收购农民大米的项目提供资金。