BANGKOK — In one of the more provocative moves of Thailand’s monthlong political crisis, antigovernment protesters marching through Bangkok on Sunday vowed to disrupt the coming elections in their campaign to rid the country of its most influential political family.
曼谷——在持续了一个月的泰国政治危机中，反政府抗议人士采取了更具挑衅性的行动，周日在曼谷进行了游行，誓言要用他们的行动扰乱即将到来的选举，让国家摆脱势力最强大的政治家族的控制。
As tens of thousands of protesters rallied at several points in Bangkok, the capital, the main protest leader, Suthep Thaugsuban, instructed his followers to gather outside the building where the governing party of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and other smaller parties had planned to register for the Feb. 2 national elections.
数万抗议者在首都曼谷多个地点集会时，抗议活动的主要领袖素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)指挥他的支持者在一座建筑外集结，总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)所在的执政党和其他一些小政党按计划将在2月2日到这里登记参加全国选举。
“If you want to register, you will have to walk past our feet,” said Mr. Suthep, who vowed to organize more protests if necessary.
“你要想登记，就得从我们这里走过去，”素贴说。他还承诺，如有必要，他会组织更多的抗议活动。
“We will shut down the country; we will block everyone casting ballots,” he said.
“我们会把整个国家停下来；我们会拦住所有要投票的人，”他说。
The dueling realities of Thailand’s grinding political turmoil were vividly on display on Sunday. As protesters massed in Bangkok and blocked major intersections, Ms. Yingluck was hundreds of miles away in friendly territory among adoring crowds in northeastern Thailand, the power base of her party, a vast region with a population that rivals Bangkok’s.
纷纷扰扰的泰国政治乱局，其斗争现实在周日得到了生动呈现。抗议者在曼谷集会，封堵主要路口，与此同时英拉在几百英里开外自己人的地盘上，被泰国东北部对她崇敬有加的民众簇拥着，这块巨大的区域是其政党的根据地，人口数量和曼谷相当。
As with the divisions of the red and blue states of the United States, Thailand’s geographical divides have become even sharper as the crisis has continued. The country is split over whether elections are the answer to the impasse or whether the country should suspend democracy while it overhauls its political system, the plan supported by protesters.
和美国的红蓝州分裂一样，随着危机的持续，泰国的政治地理分野也在加剧。是用选举来打破僵局，还是照抗议者主张的那样，在改革政治体制时暂时搁置民主，国家分裂成了两个阵营。
The Democrat Party, which leads the country’s opposition but has struggled over the past two decades to attract voters in the provinces, said Saturday that its members would boycott the elections, tightening the party’s alliance with protesters and further polarizing the country.
民主党(Democrat Party)作为泰国头号反对党在过去二十年里一直苦于无法吸引到地方选民的支持，它在周六宣布将杯葛选举，从而巩固了与抗议者的联盟，进一步加剧泰国的分化。
Opposition leaders and the protesters accuse Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire tycoon and former prime minister, of subverting democracy. Mr. Thaksin, who fled the country in 2008 before being convicted of abuse of power, wields his influence over the party from exile.
反对派领袖和抗议者指责英拉和她那位亿万富翁哥哥、前总理他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)破坏民主。他信于2008年即将因滥用职权被定罪之际逃亡海外，但在流亡期间仍在对其政党施加影响。
Mr. Thaksin’s allies counter that elections, which were called by Ms. Yingluck two weeks ago, are the only way forward for the country.
他信的盟友则反驳说，英拉两周前提出的选举是让这个国家继续前进的唯一办法。
“Even if they do not accept this government, they must accept the system,” Ms. Yingluck told the Thai news media on Sunday. “The government has already returned power to the people and let them decide the future of the country.”
“就算他们不接受这届政府，他们也应该接受制度，”英拉在周日对泰国新闻媒体说。“政府已经把权力交还给人民，让他们来决定国家的未来。”
Charupong Ruangsuwan, the leader of the governing party, Pheu Thai, said he was confident that candidates would be able to register for the elections.
执政的为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)领袖乍鲁蓬·琅素旺(Charupong Ruangsuwan)说，他相信候选人能够登记参加选举。
“I will go to the registration venue every day until we can get inside or until the election commission changes the venue,” he said Sunday on Thai television.
“我会每天去登记地点，直到我们能走进去，或选举委员会改变场地，”他在周日的电视上说。
But the volatility of the crisis was underlined by statements made Sunday by members of the pro-government United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship, a group also known as the Red Shirts.
但是支持政府的反独裁民主联盟(United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship)成员周日发表的声明突出了危机的不确定性，这个组织又被称为“红衫军”。
The group is watching whether “rebels stir up violence or intimidate the candidates,” said Tida Thawornseth, the chairwoman of the group, which says it has tens of thousands of followers.
该组织据称拥有数万之众，其女主席提妲·他翁赛特(Tida Thawornseth)说，他们正在观察“动乱是否会引发暴力，或威胁到候选人。”
“We will rise to fight only if there is a coup,” Ms. Tida said.
“如果出现政变，我们会起身战斗，”提妲说。
Mr. Thaksin was removed as prime minister by the military in 2006, an event that helped set off the continuing cycle of political unrest. The coup makers also initiated a number of legal proceedings against him, including one case that led to the 2008 conviction.
他信是2006年被军方从总理位置上赶下台的，该事件是此后一系列周而复始的政治动荡的起因之一。发动政变的一方还在法庭对他信发起了数项指控，其中就包括促成2008年那次定罪的一宗诉讼。
On Sunday, protesters in Bangkok, who rallied beside shopping malls decorated for Christmas and New Year, said they were sure that if elections were held the governing party would return to power. The party, they said, does not respect the country’s king and passes populist policies that benefit farmers and other government supporters but that harm the country as a whole.
周日，曼谷的抗议者在为了圣诞节和新年装饰一新的购物中心外集会，他们说他们相信，一旦举行选举，执政党就会重新掌握权力。他们说这个执政党不尊重这个国家的国王，制定了民粹主义的政策，让农民和其他政府支持者受益，却对整个国家构成伤害。
“Our country is an agricultural society — we are not ready for democracy,” said Saran Seedum, a 24-year-old university student from southern Thailand.
来自泰国南部的24岁大学生沙兰·西杜姆(Saran Seedum)说，“我们的国家是一个农业社会——我们还没到实施民主的时候。”
“I think we need to restore the absolute monarchy,” he said, echoing a surprisingly common sentiment among protesters. “Let the king appoint good people to run the country.”
“我认为我们应该恢复绝对君主制，”他说，这句话出人意料地在抗议人群中得到极大认同。“让国王来任命管理国家的贤才。”
Darunee Kerdkhao, 48, a teacher who lives in Bangkok, said she had joined the protest because the governing party had a lot of money and she feared that the votes of “simple minded” citizens in northern parts of the country could be bought.
现年48岁的教师达鲁妮·格德考(Darunee Kerdkhao)在曼谷生活，她说自己之所以参加抗议活动是因为执政党很有钱，她担心泰国北部那些“头脑简单”的选民可能会被收买。
“The protesters here are all educated people,” she said.
她说，“来抗议的都是受过教育的人。”
But watching the protests with disdain was Som Srisuwan, 48, a motorcycle-taxi driver who said he was grateful that Mr. Thaksin had introduced universal health care and that the governing party was forging ahead with plans for high-speed trains in the country.
但48岁的摩的司机索姆·斯里素万(Som Srisuwan)在冷眼旁观着抗议活动，他说他信推行了全民医保，而且执政党正在稳步实施国内的高速铁路计划，对此他心存感激。
Everyone in his village in northeastern Thailand planned to vote in the elections, he said.
他的老家是泰国东北部的农村，他说村里人都打算去投票。
“It’s impossible to stop the election,” he said. “How can we live without any rules, without any leaders?”
“选举是不可能停下来的，”他说。“没有任何规则，没有任何领导人，我们怎么活？”
He dismissed the protests as a “ridiculous movement.”
他鄙夷地表示，抗议活动是一场“荒唐的运动”。