BANGKOK — Antigovernment protesters seeking to block next month’s elections took over major roads in Bangkok on Sunday as they began their campaign to shut down the city.
曼谷——力图阻止下月大选的反政府抗议者已启动封锁曼谷的行动，于周日阻断了曼谷的主要道路。
In this vast metropolis of well over 10 million people, the protesters were unlikely to paralyze all movement and commerce. But they vowed that by Monday morning they would close busy intersections, make major government offices inaccessible and besiege the homes of top officials in the administration of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, whose party is likely to win the general elections if they are held on Feb. 2.
在这个人口远超1000万的巨型都市，抗议者不太可能让所有的活动和商业经营都陷入瘫痪。但他们郑重宣告，到周一上午，他们会封锁繁忙的交叉路口，截断政府主要办公室的出入路径，并包围总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)手下政府高官们的住宅。如果大选在今年2月2日举行，英拉所在的政党很有可能会赢得大选。
“We have to shut down Bangkok,” said Ratchanee Saengarun, a protester who stood in the middle of an intersection in the city. “This is our last resort.”
名叫拉差尼·森甲伦(Ratchanee Saengarun)的抗议者站在市内某交叉路口的中间说，“我们必须封锁曼谷。这是我们最后的办法。”
By late Sunday, protesters had blocked a number of roads with double-decker buses and sandbags, and had diverted traffic.
到周日晚间，抗议者已经用双层大巴和沙袋封锁了大量道路，车辆被迫绕道而行。
One of the officials singled out by protesters, Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul, told foreign reporters on Friday that he had already moved out of his house, emblematic of the government’s defensive posture during two months of aggressive street demonstrations.
外交部长素拉蓬·多威差猜恭(Surapong Tovichakchaikul)是抗议者特意针对的官员之一，他在上周五对外国记者说，他已从家中搬了出去。此举象征了政府在步步紧逼的街头示威中展现的防御性姿态，这场示威已经持续了两个月。
“I’ve already packed my stuff,” he said.
他说，“我已经把自己的东西收拾好了。”
In addition to mobilizing thousands of riot police officers for what is widely called the “shut down,” the government has called up 8,000 military personnel to guard against chaos.
为了应对被广泛称为“封锁曼谷”的行动，政府不仅动员了数千防暴警察，还召集了8000名军人来防范骚乱。
“We are pretty sure that both the military personnel and the police can maintain law and order and peace next week,” said Phongthep Thepkanjana, a deputy prime minister.
副总理蓬贴·帖甘扎纳(Phongthep Thepkanjana)说，“我们很肯定，军队和警察能维持下周的法律、秩序和和平。”
Even in a city inured to protest in recent years, the attempt to block major sections of Bangkok was ambitious and fiercely controversial. Government supporters in the north and northeast lashed out at the protest and mobilized over the weekend to counter any takeover by the military, which has been ambivalent in its support for the government. Business groups and tourist associations pleaded with the protesters to stand down. And some of the country’s leading scholars, who said Thailand was teetering on the edge of widespread violence, urged protesters to allow the elections to proceed unimpeded.
即使是在近年来见惯抗议的曼谷市，封锁市内主要路段的尝试依然可谓野心勃勃、极具争议。泰国北部和东北部的政府支持者对抗议活动大加抨击，还在周末动员起来对抗军方的任何接管行动，后者一直态度暧昧，没有明确表态支持政府。商业团体和旅游协会吁请抗议者放弃行动。一些主要的泰国学者敦促抗议者让大选畅通无阻地进行下去，他们说，泰国正处于暴力蔓延的危急边缘。
But the protest movement, a highly motivated, emotional and idealistic group largely led by the middle and upper classes in Bangkok and residents of southern Thailand, appeared to enjoy considerable support. Among those casting their lot with the protesters were the union representing Thai Airways, the national carrier; an association of rural doctors; the union representing employees of state-owned companies; and an association of university rectors.
然而，抗议团体似乎获得了大量的支持。这是一个高度情绪化、带有理想主义倾向的群体，积极性很高，它的领导者是曼谷的中上层群体和泰国南部居民。决意与抗议者共进退的团体包括代表泰国航运商泰国航空公司(Thai Airways)的工会、一个乡村医生协会、代表国有企业员工的工会，以及一个由大学校长组成的协会。
Other institutions were as divided as the country itself. Many professors and students at one of Thailand’s most prestigious universities, Chulalongkorn, vowed to support the protest by blocking access to a central commercial district. But others at the university said they were outraged that the protest sympathizers would claim to represent Chulalongkorn.
其他机构就像泰国本身一样分裂。泰国著名大学朱拉隆功大学(Chulalongkorn University)的很多教授及学生誓称要封锁通往一个主要商业区的道路，以此支持抗议活动。该大学的其他一些人却表示，抗议活动支持者自称代表朱拉隆功大学，他们对此感到非常愤怒。
The protesters are driven by hatred of Ms. Yingluck and her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a billionaire tycoon and former prime minister who is in self-exile overseas but wields great influence over the government. The protesters are passionately opposed to the family’s dominance in the country and believe that the elections will cement its hold on the political system. Disillusioned with electoral democracy, they want to replace Parliament with a “people’s council.”
抗议活动的起因是抗议者对英拉及其兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的憎恶，后者是亿万富翁及泰国前总理，目前在国外自我流放，但仍对政府具有很大的影响力。抗议者强烈反对西那瓦家族在泰国的统治地位，认为选举将会巩固该家族对政治体系的控制。他们对选举民主大失所望，希望用“人民委员会”来代替议会。
Yet Mr. Thaksin, who was ousted in a military coup in 2006, and Ms. Yingluck are widely admired by voters in the north and northeast for their transformative policies, including universal health care.
然而，他信已在2006年的一场军事政变中遭到驱逐，英拉则因推出包括全民医保在内的变革政策而得到了泰国北部及东北部选民的广泛称赞
The leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban, was quoted as saying on Sunday in the English-language newspaper The Nation that he would chase Ms. Yingluck out of Thailand. “You will no longer have a place to live,” Mr. Suthep said. “We’ll fight until the victory belongs to the people.”
周日，英文报纸《国家报》(The Nation)援引抗议活动领袖素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)的话说，他会将英拉赶出泰国。“你将不再有立锥之地，”素贴说。“我们将战斗到人民得胜的那一天。”
Seeming to acknowledge the fears of his critics that the protests could kindle violence, he added that he would retreat if there were signs of “civil war.”
批评素贴的人担心抗议活动会引发暴力事件，素贴貌似承认了这一点，并且表示，如果出现“内战”迹象，他将会做出让步。
“If someone instigates a civil war, I will tell the people to go home,” Mr. Suthep said.
素贴说，“如果有人煽动内战，我会让民众回家。”
In a country with a long history of military interventions in politics, the head of the army, Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, has given various Delphic answers to reporters when asked about the possibility of a military coup.
泰国拥有军方干预政治的长久历史。被记者问到是否会出现军事政变时，陆军总司令巴育(Prayuth Chan-ocha)给出了各种不明确的答案。
Last week, the retired general who led the 2006 coup, Sonthi Boonyaratglin, said military intervention was “impossible” because the country was so deeply divided that a “mass” of people, joined by dissident military groups, would rise up to oppose a coup.
上周，曾领导2006年政变的退休将领宋提(Sonthi Boonyaratglin)表示，军方干预是“不可能的”，因为泰国深度分裂，“大批”民众和持不同政见的军方派别都会采取行动反对政变。
Mr. Sonthi said he was often asked by officers about the likelihood of a coup.
宋提表示，他经常被军官们问到爆发政变的可能性。
“If you love the country and the king, you better stop thinking about it,” he said he had told the officers.
他表示，自己已经告诉这些军官，“如果你们爱我们的国家和国王，最好不要再想政变的事情。”
“I can assure you that they won’t do it,” he said of any attempt at a coup.
谈到任何政变企图时，宋提表示，“我可以向你们保证，他们不会发动政变。”