BANGKOK — After a week of using soft-gloved tactics against antigovernment demonstrators, the Thai police aggressively stepped up their defense of government buildings in Bangkok on Monday, firing a hail of rubber bullets and tear gas and using water cannons.
曼谷——在采取怀柔策略对抗反政府示威者一周之后，泰国警方于周一大幅加强了保护曼谷政府大楼的力度，发射大量橡皮子弹及催泪弹，并使用了高压水炮。
Despite the police’s pressuring the thousands of protesters to go home as Thailand enters its peak tourism season, the main demonstration leader, Suthep Thaugsuban, dug in his heels, prolonging the grinding standoff, the nation’s deepest civil unrest in three years.
随着泰国进入旅游旺季，警方已迫使数千名抗议者回家，尽管如此，主要的示威领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)仍然拒绝妥协，拖延极度考验神经的僵局——泰国三年来最严重的国内动乱。
“We have to fight from every angle, fight until we win,” a weary-looking Mr. Suthep told thousands of supporters late Monday. A criminal court issued an arrest warrant for Mr. Suthep on charges of rebellion, which is punishable by death or life in prison.
周一晚间，面色疲惫的素贴对数千名支持者说，“我们需开展全方位的斗争，一直战斗下去，直到我们获得胜利。”一家刑事法庭发出了对素贴的逮捕令，指控他煽动叛乱，该罪名的处罚可以是死刑或无期徒刑。
Most of the Bangkok area, which has a population of about 10 million, remained calm Monday, and a vast majority of businesses here in the capital were open for most of the day, including shopping malls that had shut their doors as a precaution on Sunday.
泰国首都曼谷有大约1000万人口。周一，曼谷大部分地区依然平静，绝大多数商家基本上全天营业，其中包括周日为防范意外而关门的商场。
But in areas targeted by protesters — particularly those around the prime minister’s office and the metropolitan police headquarters — clashes were intense.
然而，在抗议者的目标区域——特别是总理办公室及曼谷警察局附近的地区——冲突依然非常激烈。
Bloodied protesters, many of whom threw stones at police officers, were carried away from the those areas with injuries from rubber bullets apparently fired by the police. Two men had bullet wounds, doctors at a Bangkok hospital said. By late evening, as two trucks burned near the prime minister’s office, the government said that 98 people had been injured on Monday.
身上染血的抗议者被带离这些区域，他们的伤是看似来自警方的橡皮子弹造成的，其中很多抗议者都曾向警察投掷石头。曼谷一家医院的医生表示，两名男子身上有枪伤。当天入夜之时，两辆卡车在总理办公室附近燃烧。政府表示，周一有98人受伤。
Amid the chaos, a deadline appeared to loom: Analysts said the protests could wind down very fast as the birthday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej approached. The monarch, who turns 86 on Thursday, is revered.
混乱之中，最后期限似乎已经临近：分析人士表示，随着泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)生日的到来，抗议活动很快就会逐渐结束。这位备受尊敬的君主将在周四迎来86岁的生日。
Protesters have set the ambitious — and, according to many analysts, unachievable — goal of ridding the country of the Shinawatras, the country’s most influential political family.
抗议者设定了一个宏伟目标，希望使泰国摆脱该国最具影响力的政治家族——西那瓦家族(Shinawatras)——的统治。很多分析人士表示，这是一个无法实现的目标。
Led by Thaksin Shinawatra, who was deposed as prime minister in a military coup in 2006 and now lives in exile, the family has spearheaded one of the most popular political movements in modern Thai history, winning every national election since 2001. Mr. Thaksin fled overseas in 2008, just before being convicted of abuse of power in a highly politicized trial.
在他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的领导下，该家族引领了泰国现代史上最受欢迎的政治运动，赢得了自2001年以来的每一次全国大选。2006年，他信在一场军事政变中被解除总理职位，目前流亡国外。2008年，他信受到了政治色彩极浓的审判，在被判犯有滥用职权罪之前，他信逃到了国外。
The current prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, who is Mr. Thaksin’s sister, sounded both firm and conciliatory on Monday.
周一，现任总理、他信的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)的腔调听起来非常坚定，同时又意存安抚。
“The government is leaving open every option for discussion,” Ms. Yingluck said. But she rejected protesters’ demands for a “people’s council” of unelected representatives to replace the country’s parliamentary democracy.
英拉表示，“政府保留任何讨论的可能性。”但她拒绝接受抗议者的要求，即成立由非民选代表组成的“人民议会”，取代该国的议会民主制。
The protesters’ proposal has been ridiculed by academics and openly questioned by some members of the opposition Democrat Party, who are allied with the protesters.
抗议者的提议遭到了学者们的嘲笑，并受到反对派政党民主党(Democrat Party)一些成员的公开质疑，民主党是抗议者的盟友。
Ms. Yingluck was more diplomatic in rejecting the idea.
英拉比较婉转地拒绝了这个提议。
“At this point, we don’t see how we can make it happen under this Constitution,” she said.
她说，“此时此刻，我们不知道如何在《宪法》的约束下实现这个提议。”
The European Union’s office in Thailand issued a statement late Monday saying it was “very concerned to see the occupation of public office buildings, television broadcasting stations and intimidation of the media.”
周一晚些时候，欧盟(European Union)驻泰国办公室发表声明称，它“非常担心公共办公楼和电视台遭到占领的局面，也非常担心对媒体的恐吓”。
It added, “We believe that the response of the Thai authorities has so far been restrained and proportionate.”
声明还说，“我们认为，迄目前为止，泰国官方的回应一直是节制而适当的。”
The police said they would allow peaceful demonstrations to continue, including in the capital’s historic district, where tens of thousands of protesters have gathered for the past week. Crowds there have swollen in the evenings to create a carnival-like atmosphere, with demonstrators offering foot massages and free food.
警方说，他们将允许人们继续和平抗议，包括在首都的古城区域进行抗议，上周有数万名抗议者在那里集结。那几个夜晚，规模膨胀的人群制造出了一种狂欢的气氛，示威者甚至还在现场提供脚部按摩和免费食物。
But the police said they would vigorously defend important government buildings from the protesters, who announced over the weekend that they planned to seize additional buildings, having already occupied the Finance Ministry and a large government complex last week.
但警方说，他们将不遗余力地保护重要政府建筑不受抗议者侵犯；抗议者上周已经占领了财政部和一座大型政府建筑，并在周末宣布要占领更多的建筑。
Demonstrators spent Sunday and Monday dismantling razor wire and pushing over dozens of concrete barriers erected by the police to protect the prime minister’s office.
为了保护总理的办公室，警方设置了铁丝网和数十座水泥障碍物，周日和周一，示威者都在拆除这些东西。
“I would like to urge your cooperation in not attempting to invade the area behind the barriers,” Lt. Col. Anchulee Thirawongpaisal of the police said Monday in a televised news media briefing.
周一，警方的安丘李·提拉翁拜沙尔中校(Lt. Col. Anchulee Thirawongpaisal)在电视播放的媒体吹风会上说，“我强烈要求你们合作，不要尝试进入障碍物后面的区域。”
Journalists using miniature drones mounted with cameras — an innovation not widely used in the many previous bouts of unrest in Thailand — circulated videos of the battles between a thin line of riot police officers protecting the prime minister’s office and protesters attacking the barricades.
记者用装有摄像头的微型飞行器拍下了一小群保护总理办公室的防暴警察和破坏路障的抗议者之间的战斗，并把相关视频传了出去。在泰国以前发生的多次抗议活动中，这种新的拍摄方法并不常见。
Protests reached a climax over the weekend when a group of students allied with the antigovernment demonstrators clashed with the government supporters known as red shirts. Shootings between the two groups left at least three people dead and dozens injured.
周末，一群学生与反政府示威者联合起来，与号称“红衫军”的政府支持者发生了冲突，抗议活动由此达到顶峰。双方的枪战共导致至少三人死亡，数十人受伤。
As of late Monday, the government reported that the total number of people injured since Friday had risen to 201.
政府于周一晚间报道，自周五以来，伤者总数已升至201人。
The protesters are divided into disparate factions. Some are allied with the Democrat Party, the oldest political party in Thailand, which broke with tradition this year and joined street protests.
抗议者来自多个不同阵营。有些人与泰国历史最悠久的政党民主党站在一边。该党派今年突破传统，加入了街头抗议。
Others come from an ascetic Buddhist sect, vocational schools and an ultramonarchist grouping known as the yellow shirts.
其他一些人则来自一个奉行禁欲主义的佛教派别、一些职业学校，或是一个名为“黄衫军”的极端君主主义团体。
Despite the appearance of normalcy in much of Bangkok, more than a dozen secondary schools, at least seven large universities and the United Nations regional headquarters were closed on Monday.
虽然曼谷的大部分地区表面上很正常，但是十多所中学、至少七所大型大学和联合国的曼谷总部周一都关着门。
The protests were set off by the government’s effort to push through an amnesty that would have broadly applied to any politics-related cases since 2004. Critics said it would help ease Mr. Thaksin’s return to Thailand by wiping clean pending corruption cases against him and voiding his conviction. The government withdrew the amnesty bill last month after a public outcry, but Mr. Suthep, the protest leader, expanded protesters’ demands to include the elimination of what they call the “Thaksin regime.”
泰国之所以发生抗议，是因为政府试图通过一条特赦令，它将广泛适用于2004年后与政治相关的所有案件。批评人士说，它将使尚未审结的他信腐败案和对他信的定罪一笔勾销，由此帮他信铺平重返泰国的道路。上个月，由于遭到公众的强烈抗议，政府撤销了这条特赦令。但是，反对派领袖素贴扩大了抗议者的要求，要求铲除他们所说的“他信政权”。