BANGKOK — Facing volatile street protests and the mass resignation from Parliament of the main opposition party, Thailand’s prime minister on Monday called for fresh elections, the latest in a series of attempts to defuse anger against her political party and her powerful family.
曼谷——面对可能恶化的街头抗议活动以及主要反对党议员的集体辞职，泰国总理周一呼吁重新选举，这是她为平息人们对她所在的政党以及她强大家族的愤怒所采取的最新尝试。
“Let the people decide the direction of the country and who the governing majority will be,” the prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, said in a televised statement on Monday morning.
总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)周一早上在电视播放的一则声明中说，“让人民来决定国家的方向以及谁将成为执政的多数。”
But the call for elections, which are not due until 2015, did not satisfy protest leaders who led tens of thousands of demonstrators through the streets of Bangkok on Monday. By midafternoon, the police said the number of protesters had reached well above 100,000 people.
但是，重新选举的呼吁并没满足抗议领导人的要求，他们带领成千上万示威者周一走上曼谷街头示威，下次大选本该在2015年举行。截至下午过半时，警方称，抗议者人数已经超过了10万。
“This is not our objective,” Anchalee Paireerak, a protest leader, said of elections. “We will continue marching.”
抗议领导人安佳丽·派里拉克(Anchalee Paireerak)在提到选举时说，“那不是我们的目的。我们会继续游行。”
Although many areas of Bangkok have been unaffected by the protests, clashes have left five people dead and hundreds injured over the past two weeks.
虽然曼谷的很多地方并未受到游行的影响，但过去两周内发生的冲突已经造成5人死亡、数百人受伤。
Protest leaders have called for the country’s electoral democracy to be replaced with a vaguely defined “people’s council,” a plan that has been widely derided by civic leaders and scholars as idealistic, unworkable and retrograde.
抗议领导人呼吁用一个概念模糊的“人民委员会”取代该国的民主选举制，这个计划遭到公民领袖和学者的广泛嘲弄，他们称之为理想化、不可行，而且是倒行逆施。
According to Thai law, elections must be held by Feb. 2. But it remained unclear Monday whether the opposition would boycott them, as they have in the past.
泰国法律规定，选举必须在2月2日之前举行。但周一还不清楚反对派是否会像过去那样抵制这次选举。
The opposition has been deeply frustrated by its inability to win elections against the powerful political machine backed by the billionaire tycoon Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister who now lives in exile. Ms. Yingluck is Mr. Thaksin’s sister.
反对党一直都因自己无法在选举中击败由富豪他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)支持的强大政治机器而深感沮丧。他信曾任泰国总理，目前流亡在国外，英拉是他的妹妹。
In the last elections, held in July 2011, the governing party received 15.7 million votes, compared with 11.4 million for the opposition Democrat Party.
上次选举是在2011年7月举行的，当时执政党获得了1570万张选票，而反对党民主党(Democrat Party)获得的选票数量为1140万张。
On Sunday, the Democrats, Thailand’s oldest party and the main force behind the country’s political opposition, announced that its members would resign from Parliament and join the antigovernment demonstrations.
泰国历史最久的政党民主党在周日宣布其成员退出议会，加入到反政府游行中去，民主党是泰国政治反对派的主要力量。
“We cannot beat them,” said Theptai Seanapong, one of the members of Parliament who resigned on Sunday. “It doesn’t matter if we raise our hands and feet in parliamentary votes, we will never win.”
周日辞职的一位议员提普泰·西纳彭(Theptai Seanapong)说，“我们赢不了他们。即使我们在议会表决中同时举起手和脚，我们都永远不会获胜。”
Sathit Wongnongtoey, one of the protest leaders and a former member of Parliament for the Democrat Party, said Monday that he feared there would be “cheating” in the election if the government carried on as caretakers, as is stipulated in the Constitution.
抗议领袖之一、民主党的一位前议会成员萨迪特·翁农托(Sathit Wongnongtoey)周一说，如果像宪法规定的那样，由现任政府作为看守政府来维持局面的话，他担心选举中将会出现“作弊”。
“And they will return to power,” Mr. Sathit said. “We cannot allow that to happen.”
“他们将会再度执政，”萨迪特说，“我们不能让那种事情发生。”
The mistrust of electoral politics has echoes across the region — in Malaysia, where the governing party has heavily gerrymandered the electoral map, and in Cambodia, where the authoritarian prime minister, Hun Sen, has used the machinery of the state and military to bolster his power. The Cambodian opposition continues to boycott Parliament over allegations of widespread electoral fraud in July elections.
这种对选举政治的不信任对整个东南亚地区都有影响，比如马来西亚的执政党一直在严格操纵选区的划分；还有在柬埔寨，独裁总理洪森(Hun Sen)利用国家机器和军队巩固自己的权力。柬埔寨反对派指责7月份大选中出现大范围的选举舞弊，至今仍继续抵制议会。
One major difference in Thailand is that there is little dispute that Mr. Thaksin’s party has won the hearts of a majority of voters. By tailoring its policies to voters in the provinces, especially in northern Thailand, scholars say, the governing Pheu Thai Party has convincingly won every election since 2001.
泰国与这些国家的一个主要区别是，他信所在的政党受到多数选民欢迎的这个事实没有什么争议。学者们说，执政的为泰党(Pheu Thai Party)通过采取对地方选民、尤其是泰国北部的选民有利的政策，而令人信服地赢得了自2011年以来的每一次选举。
The opposition has repeatedly said that Mr. Thaksin has maintained power through vote buying. Two of Thailand’s leading political researchers wrote a widely circulated article last week describing the allegation as “dangerous nonsense,” arguing that it was policies, not vote buying, that had cemented the loyalty of many voters in the provinces toward Mr. Thaksin.
反对党一再表示，他信通过购买选票来维持其权力。泰国的两位主要政治学研究者在上周发表的一篇广为转载的文章中，把这种指责描述为“危险的无稽之谈”，他们指出，是政策、而不是购买选票坚定了地方上的很多选民对他信的忠诚。
The Democrat Party has many grievances with Mr. Thaksin’s party, including what it considers the railroading of some spending bills, voting procedures in Parliament that a court has called illegal and the furtive passage of important laws in the early hours of the morning.
民主党对他信的政党有很多不满，认为执政党强行通过一些支出议案，还抱怨议会的投票程序有问题(一家法院已经称这些程序非法)，以及议会在凌晨很早的时辰偷偷摸摸地通过一些重要法律等。
Yet for a party that has long cultivated a genteel and intellectual image and advocated resolving differences inside Parliament, the decision to take to the streets was contentious within its own ranks.
但是，对于一个长期以来给自己树立了一种文雅的知识形象、提倡在议会内部解决分歧的政党来说，走上街头抗议的决定在民主党内部也有争议。
Still, the party’s move has parallels — and worrying similarities, some observers believe — to a move the party made seven years ago. Amid a campaign of street protests against Mr. Thaksin, then the prime minister, the Democrat Party boycotted elections in April 2006. Five months later, Mr. Thaksin was deposed in a military coup.
尽管如此，该党的行动与其7年前的一次行动有相似之处，一些观察者认为这些相似令人担忧。7年前，在针对时任总理他信的街头抗议运动中，民主党抵制了2006年4月份的选举。5个月以后，他信在一次军事政变中被罢免。
During the current round of demonstrations, protest leaders have courted the military, and many protesters have openly called for another coup. But until now, the army chief, Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, has appeared wary of intervening in the crisis.
在目前的示威中，抗议活动的领导人已经在拉拢军方，很多抗议者公开呼吁要再来一次政变。但到现在为止，陆军总司令巴育(Prayuth Chan-ocha)似乎对介入这场危机保持谨慎态度。
A Thai newspaper, Post Today, reported on Sunday that General Prayuth had said a coup would not solve the country’s problems. “We must be patient and seek a peaceful solution,” the paper quoted him as saying.
泰国报纸《今日邮报》(Post Today)周日报道称，巴育说政变不能解决泰国的问题。该报援引他的话说，“我们必须要耐心地寻求一种和平的解决方案。”