The International Court of Justice on Monday handed Cambodia a partial victory in its territorial dispute with Thailand over the land surrounding an ancient temple along the country’s border.
在柬埔寨与泰国之间围绕着边境线上一座古寺周边土地的争端中，国际法院(International Court of Justice)本周一让柬埔寨取得了部分胜利。
The court, the top judicial body of the United Nations, said in its judgment that Cambodia had sovereignty over the immediate area around Preah Vihear Temple — the promontory on which it sits. But the court left unresolved who controls a larger disputed area, where Cambodian and Thai troops have clashed in recent years.
国际法院是联合国的最高司法机构。它在判决书中称，柬埔寨拥有紧邻柏威夏寺(Preah Vihear Temple)的地区——即该寺所在的海角——的主权。不过，法院并未解决应由哪方控制更大争议区域的问题。柬埔寨和泰国军队近年来曾在这一较大区域内发生冲突。
Thailand, the court said, is “under an obligation to withdraw from that territory the Thai military or police forces, or other guards or keepers, that were stationed there.”
法院称，泰国“有责任撤出部署在该地区的军队、警察部队以及其他警卫和管理人员。”
Nationalist groups have urged the Thai government not to respect the verdict. In a nationally televised speech after news of the decision, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said the government would negotiate further on the issue with Cambodia.
泰国的一些民族主义团体已敦促本国政府不要遵守判决。裁决的消息公布后，泰国总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)发表了面向全国的电视讲话，宣称政府将就这一问题与柬埔寨进一步磋商。
Ownership of the temple and its surrounding areas, a dispute that dates back decades, is an emotional one and has been used by politicians on both sides of the border to stoke nationalist feelings.
柏威夏寺及其周边地区归属问题的争议持续了几十年，极其牵动人心。两国都有政坛人物利用这一问题来煽动民族主义情绪。
Cambodia was awarded sovereignty over the temple itself in a 1962 decision by the same court, based in The Hague, and Monday’s judgment clarified that decision.
1962年，位于海牙的国际法院做出裁决，授予柬埔寨对柏威夏寺本身的主权。本周一的判决进一步澄清了当年的决定。
The border between Thailand and Cambodia was drawn by French officials in the early 20th century.
泰国与柬埔寨之间的边境线由法国官员于上世纪初划定。
News services reported that Cambodia’s foreign minister, Hor Namhong, had said the ruling was “good enough.”
多家新闻机构报道，柬埔寨外相贺南洪(Hor Namhong)表示，这项判决“足够好”。
Yuthasak Sasiprapha, Thailand’s deputy defense minister, said Thai troops stationed near the border would “stay where they are,” pending further talks with Cambodia.
泰国国防部副部长育他萨·萨西巴帕(Yuthasak Sasiprapha)则称，部署在边境地区的泰国军队将“原地不动”，等待与柬埔寨的进一步谈判。