More than 80 years after his death, Rabindranath Tagore, the Bengali poet and Nobel laureate, still has a huge following in Asia. Outside India and Bangladesh, perhaps nowhere is his legacy more alive than in China, where his works have been part of the middle-school curriculum for decades.
孟加拉语诗人、诺贝尔文学奖获得者拉宾德拉纳特·泰戈尔(Rabindranath Tagore)去世80多年后，在亚洲仍然拥有众多拥趸。在印度与孟加拉国以外，他的文学遗产或许在中国是被继承发扬得最好的，几十年来，他的作品一直在中学课本之中。
This month, to commemorate the 155th anniversary of his birth, the People’s Publishing House will release “The Complete Works of Tagore,” the first direct translation of his entire output from Bengali into Chinese. The project took a team of translators nearly six years.
这个月，为了纪念泰戈尔155周年诞辰，人民出版社将出版《泰戈尔全集》，这是他的全部作品首次由孟加拉语直接翻译成中文，是一个翻译家团队工作了将近六年的成果。
But Tagore has also been at the center of a controversy here, after another, more racy new translation of some of his poems by the writer Feng Tang, called “Stray Birds,” set off a storm of criticism. The furor was so intense that the Zhejiang Wenyi Publishing House pulled the volume from stores.
但是在此之前，作家冯唐翻译的另一个风格大胆的泰戈尔《飞鸟集》(Stray Birds)版本引发了批评的风暴，已经令泰戈尔成为争论的焦点。争论过于激烈，浙江文艺出版社只得将该书下架。
“Most Chinese grew up thinking Tagore was mild and romantic, all stars, gardens and flowers,” Mr. Feng said in a recent interview in his Beijing studio. “So with my translation, many people felt like their Tagore, the Tagore from their childhood textbooks, had been challenged.”
“大多数中国人从小觉得泰戈尔是温和浪漫的，都是星星啊、花园啊、花朵啊，”冯唐近期在自己北京的工作室里接受采访时说。“我的翻译让很多人觉得不是他们心目中的泰戈尔，他们小时候从教科书里读到的泰戈尔被颠覆了。”
Yu Qing, deputy chief editor of the People’s Publishing House, said, “In terms of the top foreign authors, Tagore may just be the most popular and most widely translated foreign writer in China.”
人民出版社副总编于青说：“在所有一流外国作家中，泰戈尔在中国是最受欢迎，译介最广的。”
“Unlike other popular foreign authors here like Tolstoy or Mark Twain, Tagore actually visited China and spent time with the pioneers of contemporary Chinese literature,” Mr. Yu added.
“和托尔斯泰、马克·吐温等受欢迎的外国作家不同，泰戈尔曾经访问中国，和中国当代文学的先驱们相处过，”于先生说。
As the first non-Westerner to receive the Nobel Prize in Literature, in 1913, Tagore was also the “lone voice from Asia in an intellectual milieu that was almost entirely dominated by Western institutions and individuals,” wrote Pankaj Mishra in his 2012 book, “From the Ruins of Empire.” Translations of the poet’s work by rising young intellectuals like Mao Dun, Zhang Zhenduo and Chen Duxiu, a co-founder of the Chinese Communist Party, began to appear in Chinese magazines.
1913年，泰戈尔成为首位获得诺贝尔文学奖的非西方作家，正如潘卡杰·米什拉(Pankaj Mishra)在2012年的著作《来自帝国的废墟》(From the Ruins of Empire)中写到的，他也是“在一个近乎完全由西方机构与个人统治的知识分子小环境中，唯一来自亚洲的孤独声音”。在当年，茅盾、郑振铎与中国共产党的创始人之一陈独秀等成长中的年轻知识分子开始翻译泰戈尔的作品，并陆续发表在各种中国杂志上。
The 44-year-old Mr. Feng, a popular novelist, said he had been looking for a translation project and remembered reading the collection of short poems about man and nature in “Stray Birds” when he was young.
44岁的冯唐是通俗小说作家，他说自己一直在寻找一个翻译项目，并且记得自己年轻时就曾经读过《飞鸟集》中这些关于人与自然的短诗。
But not long after his translation was published last summer, critiques began to appear online and in the Chinese news media, including People’s Daily. Readers and scholars excoriated Mr. Feng for blaspheming the beloved poet.
但是他的译本于去年夏天出版不久之后，批评之声就开始在网络与中国新闻媒体上出现，其中包括《人民日报》。读者与学者们眼里指责冯唐亵渎了这位受人爱戴的诗人。
The cultural critic Raymond Zhou, writing in the state-owned China Daily, called Mr. Feng’s translation “a vulgar selfie of hormone saturated innuendo.” Even the Indian news media chimed in, with one commentator writing that Mr. Feng had made a “mockery of Tagore.”
文化评论家周黎明(Raymond Zhou)为《中国日报》(China Daily)撰文，称冯唐的翻译是“粗俗的自我写照，充满荷尔蒙的味道”，就连印度媒体也卷了进来，一个评论者说冯唐是在“嘲弄泰戈尔”。
The anger mostly focused on three of the 326 poems, all of which Mr. Feng, like most earlier translators, based on English versions. In one, which was translated into English by Tagore himself, the poet wrote: “The world puts off its mask of vastness to its lover. It becomes small as one song, as one kiss of the eternal.”
《飞鸟集》中收录了326首诗，冯唐的译本和大多数早期译者一样，是基于英文版的，评论者们的怒火主要集中在其中三首诗上。其中一首是由泰戈尔本人翻译为英文：“世界对着他的爱人，把他浩瀚的面具揭下了，他变小了，小如一首歌，小如一回永恒的接吻。”（郑振铎译——译注）。
By contrast, Mr. Feng’s translation in Chinese reads: “The world unzipped his pants in front of his lover. Long as a French kiss, slim as a line of a poem.”
然而冯唐将之翻译为：“大千世界在情人面前解开裤裆，绵长如舌吻，纤细如诗行。”
Mr. Feng continues to stand by his translation.
冯唐仍然坚持自己的翻译。
“My only intention was to capture the aesthetics of Tagore’s poems,” he said. “When I translate, I’m a writer. I don’t need to know the context. I just want to do things as freely and as creatively as possible.”
“我唯一的目的就是抓住泰戈尔诗中的美学，”他说。“当我翻译时，我就是作家。我不需要知道语境。我只想尽可能自由地创作。”
Even with the uproar, many were perhaps even more surprised by the announcement in December from the Zhejiang Wenyi Publishing House that it would halt sales of the book and review the translation. It is unclear whether the book will be returned to shelves. Reached by telephone, the company declined to comment.
尽管有这样多的争议，12月，浙江文艺出版社宣布将该书下架并重新审视其翻译的决定令许多人更加震惊。该书是否会重新上架，目前尚不明确。 出版社在电话中拒绝对此发表评论。
“I think the fact that there was this controversy in the first place shows the special place Tagore holds in the hearts of Chinese readers,” said Dong Youchen, chief editor and translator of the “The Complete Works of Tagore.” “He wrote with an Eastern sensibility that Chinese people even today can connect with.”
“我认为这场争论首先表明了泰戈尔在中国读者心目中的特殊位置，”《泰戈尔全集》的主编及译者之一董友忱说。“他以东方的情感进行创作，所以今天的中国人也能产生共鸣。”
Then again, some say conveying the essence of Tagore’s works through translation may simply be a near-impossible task.
当然，也有人认为，通过翻译传达泰戈尔作品中的精髓，可能根本就是一项近乎不可能的任务。
“Poetry is, of course, notoriously difficult to translate,” Amartya Sen wrote in The New York Review of Books in 1997. “And anyone who knows Tagore’s poems in their original Bengali cannot feel satisfied with any of the translations.”
“当然，诗歌是出了名的难以翻译，”1997年，阿玛蒂亚·森(Amartya Sen)为《纽约书评》(The New York Review of Books)撰文称。“任何能以孟加拉语原文阅读泰戈尔诗歌的人都不会对任何译本表示满意的。”