The army general who led the overthrow of Thailand’s elected government in May was named prime minister Thursday by a rubber-stamp legislature, sealing the military’s acquisition of near-absolute power in a country once considered a regional beacon of political freedom.
曾在5月份领导了推翻泰国民选政府的军队将领周四被一个橡皮图章议会任命为总理，让军队在泰国获得近乎绝对的权力成为定局，该国一度被认为是东南亚地区政治自由的灯塔。
Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha was chosen as prime minister by the National Legislative Assembly, whose members were handpicked by the junta last month. There were no dissenting votes, and General Prayuth, who was attending a military ceremony outside of Bangkok and was not present, was the only candidate.
巴育·占奥差将军(Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha)被国家立法议会选为总理，议会成员是军政府在上个月一手挑选出来的。没有人投反对票，巴育是唯一的候选人，当时他正在曼谷之外出席一个军事仪式，没在投票现场。
Thailand has a long history of generals seizing power, but the military this time has been more aggressive in rooting out democratic institutions than after the last coup in 2006. All forms of popular elections have been suspended, including those for local councils that first appeared well over a century ago when Thailand was still an absolute monarchy.
泰国有将军掌权的漫长历史，但是，与2006年发生的最近一次政变相比，军方这次在铲除民主制度上更加声势浩大。所有形式的民众选举的都已暂停，包括地方议会的选举，首次举行地方选举是在一个多世纪之前，当时泰国还是一个绝对君主制国家。
King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who is 86 years old and ailing, endorsed the junta soon after the coup and was expected to formally approve General Prayuth’s selection as prime minister.
泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)已经86岁且健康状况不佳，在政变发生后不久，他便接受了军政府，他有望将正式批准巴育当选总理。
The ascendance this year of military power in Thailand goes against a recent trend of greater democratization in Southeast Asia. In Indonesia, which for decades was ruled by a military strongman, a populist governor, Joko Widodo, defeated a former general in the July presidential election. Meanwhile, Thailand’s western neighbor, Myanmar, is embracing multiparty democracy after five decades of harsh military dictatorship.
军人权力今年在泰国渐占优势的情况，与最近东南亚地区更大的民主化趋势相违。在几十年来一直被军事强人统治的印度尼西亚，一位民粹主义省长佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)，在7月份的总统大选中，打败了一位前将军。与此同时，泰国的西部邻国缅甸，在经历了50年的严酷军事独裁统治后，正在接受多党派民主制度。
Thailand’s military says it will eventually restore democracy. But the junta has not provided a firm timetable for elections, and an interim constitution introduced by the military says that democracy, when it is restored, will be “suitable for a Thai context,” a vague qualification that has yet to be defined.
泰国军方说，它最终会恢复民主制度。但军政府并没有给出举行选举的确切时间表，军方推出的一个临时宪法说，当民主制度得到恢复时，它将会“适合国家的特色”，这个模糊限定条件的意思目前尚不明确。
Surachart Bamrungsuk, a professor at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok and one of the leading experts on the Thai military, describes the current system as a “soft dictatorship” and says that the top generals are trying to cement their place in the country’s future.
曼谷朱拉隆功大学的教授Surachart Bamrungsuk是研究泰国军方的主要专家之一，他把当前的体制描述为“软独裁”，他说，高级将领们正试图巩固其在国家未来的地位。
“What they want is a kind of guided democracy where the military has a supervisory role,” Professor Surachart said.
“他们要的是有引导的民主制度，军队将在其中起一种监督作用，”这位专家说。
Although martial law is still in effect and more than 500 people with links to political activism have been detained since the coup — most of them have since been released — the junta’s political repression is scarcely felt on the streets of Bangkok, which remain lively despite a 10 percent drop in the number of foreign tourists visiting the country this year and an economy that shrank in the first half of 2014.
虽然戒严令仍然有效，而且自政变以来，已有500多名涉及政治活动的人士被拘留，其中大多数人后来被释放，不过在曼谷街头，很少能感觉到军政府的政治镇压，尽管今年来泰国的外国游客数量减少了10％，这里的经济在2014年上半年有所萎缩，但这个城市仍十分热闹。
Even those skeptical of the bloodless coup admit that the military has significant support, especially among the urban middle class.
就连那些对不流血政变持怀疑态度的人也承认，军队得到不少人的支持，尤其是在城市的中产阶层中。
The military seized power on May 22 after six months of political stalemate brought on by protests backed by the Bangkok establishment. The coup achieved the ultimate goal of the protesters, the removal from power of the governing party founded by the billionaire former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, whose movement has strong support in the provinces and has repeatedly won national elections but antagonized the Bangkok elites.
在经历了6个月的政治僵局之后，泰国军方于5月22日宣布接管政府。政治僵局是受到曼谷当权派支持的抗议活动造成的。政变让抗议者的最终目标得到了实现：把亿万富翁前总理他信·西那瓦创建的执政党赶下台，他信的运动在全国各省得到大力支持，因此在全国大选中多次获胜，但却激怒了曼谷的精英。
“A lot of people who supported the coup see it as a necessary pause for democracy — they are buying into what the coup leaders are saying,” said Sarinee Achavanuntakul, an investment banker turned blogger who has been critical of the coup.
“很多支持政变的人把它看作是民主的一个必要的暂停，他们接受了政变领导人的说法，”Sarinee Achavanuntakul说，这位由投资银行家转为博客写手的人一直在批评政变。
Military rule is popular with Thais who are tired of street protests and polarized politics, Ms. Sarinee said. “I think there’s a false normalcy now,” she said.
该批评者说，军事统治深受厌倦了街头抗议和政治两极化的泰国人的支持。“我觉得现在是一种虚假的恢复正常，”她说。
Political rancor has been pushed underground. The normally divisive and cacophonous process of passing an annual budget was dispensed with in a few hours this week when members of the National Legislative Assembly, most of whom are either current or retired soldiers, voted unanimously to pass it. Politicians — defined as anyone who has held a position in a political party within the last three years — are barred from membership in the assembly.
政治敌对情绪已被迫转入地下。在往常，对年度预算表决的过程充满了造成不和的激烈争吵，而今年的预算在本周只用了几个小时就在全国立法议会获得通过，议会中的大多数是现役或退役军人，他们一致投票通过了预算。政客被禁止当议会成员，政客的定义是在过去三年内在任何政党担任过职位的人。
Thongchai Winichakul, a professor of Southeast Asian history at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, says the junta is harnessing disdain for politicians and a yearning, among some Thais, for virtuous authoritarianism.
威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)东南亚史教授通猜·威尼差古尔(Thongchai Winichakul)说，军政府正在利用一些泰国人鄙视政客、向往有道德的权威主义体制的情绪。
“Buddhist political philosophy has always featured an enlightened despot,” he said.
他说，“佛教的政治哲学始终都有一个开明的专制君主的角色。”
But Professor Thongchai predicts that ultimately the generals will be unable to manage the country, the second largest economy in Southeast Asia, and will meet resistance to their rule.
不过通猜预测，将军们最终将无能力管理泰国这个东南亚的第二大经济体，他们会面临对自己统治的抵抗。
“Paternalistic dictatorship won’t work anymore,” he said. “The society is too complex.” Previous military strongmen in Thailand operated during a time when the country was poor and agrarian, he said; Thailand today has a population that is much more politically aware and demanding.
“家长式独裁统治是行不通的，现在的社会太复杂了。”他说。泰国以前的军事强人操纵的是一个贫穷的农业国，他说；如今的泰国人更具政治意识，也有更多的诉求。