Question: Is tooth polishing necessary at the end of a dental visit?
问：洗牙后抛光牙齿是否有必要？
When a dental hygienist cleans your teeth, s/he usually finishes with polishing using a mildly gritty paste and a rotating polisher. It always seems to me like sandpapering with an electric sander. I opt out, since it seems like it must wear down the enamel. Is it necessary or beneficial to polish teeth this way?
当牙医清洁完你的牙齿后，她/他通常都会用含有柔软颗粒的抛光膏和抛光器进行抛光。对我来说这总仿佛是在用磨砂机打磨牙齿。出于对损坏牙釉质的担忧，我退而远之。抛光对牙齿必要或有益吗？
Answer: Polishing teeth may make them feel smooth and gleam, but the procedure isn’t necessary. “There is no health benefit to polishing,” said Julie Frantsve-Hawley, the editor of The International Journal of Evidence-Based Practice for the Dental Hygienist. “It’s not going to impact tooth decay, gum disease or oral cancer.”
答：抛光能使牙齿更光洁，但它不是必需的。“抛光对口腔健康无益，”《牙医循证实践国际期刊》的编辑Julie Frantsve-Hawley说，“它不会改善蛀牙，牙龈病或口腔癌。”
In its latest position paper, the American Dental Hygienists’ Association advises that polishing should not be considered a routine part of a dental cleaning. So feel free to skip it.
美国牙医协会在其最新的意见书中指出抛光无需被视作洗牙的必要步骤。大可放心省略它。
Polishing with a gritty paste can remove stains on a tooth’s surface. But to get rid of stains, hygienists should also be scaling, said Marcia Lorentzen, the dean of the Fones School of Dental Hygiene at the University of Bridgeport in Connecticut. Most of us are familiar with scaling, which typically involves removing tartar and plaque off the teeth with a metal hooklike instrument.
“用含有颗粒的抛光膏进行抛光能够清除牙齿表面污垢。但要摆脱深层污垢，还是要靠洗牙。”康涅狄格州桥港大学的方斯(Fones)口腔卫生学院主任Marcia Lorentzen说,“大多数人熟知的洗牙一般包括用勾状金属工具去除牙垢和牙菌斑。”
It used to be standard for all teeth to be polished until research showed that doing so removed enamel. Then in the 1970s, an influential textbook, “Clinical Practice of the Dental Hygienist,” by Dr. Esther Wilkins, recommended “selective polishing” – meaning the hygienist should only shine stained parts of the teeth and not the whole set.
抛光整套牙齿一直很普遍，直到研究显示它会损坏牙釉质。接着在1970年代，在一本具有影响力的教科书《牙医临床实践》中，作者Esther Wilkins博士建议“选择性抛光”，即只针对污垢部分而不是全部牙齿进行抛光。
As to whether enamel will be worn down, Dr. Frantsve-Hawley, a registered dental hygienist who has a Ph.D in biological and biomedical sciences, said twice-a-year polishing at the dentist’s office, even with the coarsest paste, is “not frequent enough to cause significant damage to the enamel.”
至于是否会损坏牙釉质，拥有生物及生物医学博士学位的注册牙医Frantsve-Hawley博士说，两年一次的抛光，即使用最次的抛光膏，也不足以严重损坏牙釉质。
Dr. Lorentzen agreed, saying, “Polishing is not a significant risk.” By contrast, not using a soft toothbrush or brushing too hard daily can damage the softer structures of the teeth, including the cementum, the surface layer of the tooth root.
Lorentzen博士同意此观点，他说，抛光不会有高风险，与之相比，不使用软刷毛的牙刷或者每天刷牙太过用力，反而都会损坏牙齿中硬度较低的组织，包括牙骨质，一种牙根表层组织。
Patients who remained concerned about enamel damage but want polishing can request the dental hygienist use a finer-grained paste.
想要洗牙的患者如果担心牙釉质的损坏，可以要求牙医使用颗粒更精细的抛光膏。