John D. Rockefeller built a vast fortune on oil. Now his heirs are abandoning fossil fuels.
约翰·D·洛克菲勒(John D. Rockefeller)凭借石油积累了大量财富。现在，他的后代却正在抛弃化石燃料。
The family whose legendary wealth flowed from Standard Oil is planning to announce on Monday that its $860 million philanthropic organization, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, is joining the divestment movement that began a couple years ago on college campuses.
洛克菲勒家族具有传奇色彩的财富来自标准石油公司(Standard Oil)，该家族计划于周一宣布，旗下拥有8.6亿美元（约合53亿元人民币）的慈善组织洛克菲勒兄弟基金会(Rockefeller Brothers Fund)将加入几年前开始于大学校园的撤资运动。
The announcement, timed to precede Tuesday’s opening of the United Nations climate change summit meeting in New York City, is part of a broader and accelerating initiative.
声明的发布时间被定在周二联合国气候变化峰会在纽约开幕之前。这一举动是一项规模更大而且正在加速的运动的一部分。
In recent years, 180 institutions — including philanthropies, religious organizations, pension funds and local governments — as well as hundreds of wealthy individual investors have pledged to sell assets tied to fossil fuel companies from their portfolios and to invest in cleaner alternatives. In all, the groups have pledged to divest assets worth more than $50 billion from portfolios, and the individuals more than $1 billion, according to Arabella Advisors, a firm that consults with philanthropists and investors to use their resources to achieve social goals.
近年来，有180家机构——包括慈善机构、宗教组织、养老基金和地方政府——以及数百名富裕的个人投资者承诺要出售他们持有的与化石燃料企业相关的资产，并对更加清洁的替代能源进行投资。艾瑞贝拉咨询公司(Arabella Advisors)表示，这些机构承诺要撤资的金额共计超过500亿美元，个人投资者则承诺撤走超过10亿美元的投资。艾瑞贝拉为慈善基金和投资者提供咨询，以利用他们的资源来达成社会目标。
The people who are selling shares of energy stocks are well aware that their actions are unlikely to have an immediate impact on the companies, given their enormous market capitalizations and cash flow.
那些出售能源股票的人非常清楚，他们的行为不可能对这些公司产生直接影响，因为这些公司具有很高的市值和充裕的现金流。
Even so, some say they are taking action to align their assets with their environmental principles. Others want to shame companies that they believe are recklessly contributing to a warming planet. Still others say that the fight to limit climate change will lead to new regulations and disruptive new technologies that will make these companies an increasingly risky investment.
即便如此，有些公司和个人也表示，他们采取行动是为了使公司的资产配置，与他们的环境原则保持一致。其他人则希望，在他们看来肆无忌惮地加剧全球变暖的那些企业，会因此感到羞愧。还有人则表示，这场遏制气候变化的斗争，将促使官方制定一些新的监管规定，并催生一些打破常规的新科技，从而提高投资这些企业的风险。
Ultimately, the activist investors say, their actions, like those of the anti-apartheid divestment fights of the 1980s, could help spur international debate, while the shift of investment funds to energy alternatives could lead to solutions to the carbon puzzle.
这些激进投资者表示，与20世纪80年代的反种族隔离撤资斗争一样，他们的行动最终将在国际社会上引起讨论，而投资基金向替代能源的转移，也有助于解决碳排放的难题。
“This is a threshold moment,” said Ellen Dorsey, executive director of the Wallace Global Fund, which has coordinated the effort to recruit foundations to the cause. “This movement has gone from a small activist band quickly into the mainstream.”
“这是一个跨越性的时刻，”华莱士全球基金(Wallace Global Fund)的首席执行官埃伦·多尔西(Ellen Dorsey)说。号召其他基金会加入这项事业的行动就是由这家基金协调开展的。“这项运动很快就从一个小规模运动变成了主流。”
Not everyone will divest completely or right away, Ms. Dorsey noted, and some are divesting just from specific sectors of the fossil fuel industry, such as coal.
多尔西指出，并非每个人都会完全或立即撤资，有些只是从化石燃料行业的特定领域撤资，比如煤炭。
“The key thing is that they are moving along toward a common destination,” she said.
她说，“关键在于，他们在朝一个共同的目的前进。”
Among the individual investors joining in the announcement on Monday is Mark Ruffalo, the actor. The news conference will include a videotaped message from Bishop Desmond Tutu, who said that because climate change has a disproportionate impact on the poor, it is “the human rights challenge of our time.”
周一发布声明的个人投资者中，包括演员马克·鲁法洛(Mark Ruffalo)。新闻发布会上将播放一段大主教德斯蒙德·图图(Desmond Tutu)的视频讯息。他表示，因为气候变化会给穷人带来相当大的影响，所以这是“我们这个时代所面临的人权挑战”。
Just how transparent the various funds and institutions will be about the progress of their asset sales is uncertain.
各个基金和机构投资者出售资产的进度会有多大的透明度尚不得而知。
At the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, there is no equivocation but there is caution, said Stephen Heintz, its president. The fund has already eliminated investments involved in coal and tar sands entirely while increasing its investment in alternate energy sources.
洛克菲勒兄弟基金会总裁斯蒂芬·海因兹(Stephen Heintz)说，该基金会不是在含糊其辞，只是较为谨慎。基金会增加对替代能源的投资的同时，已完全撤出了涉及煤炭和沥青砂的投资。
Unwinding other investments in a complex portfolio from the broader realm of fossil fuels will take longer. “We’re moving soberly, but with real commitment,” he said.
在该基金会持有的庞杂投资组合中，将其他资金从化石燃料领域撤出，需要花更长时间。“我们的行动很慎重，但却是诚心诚意的，”他说。
Steven Rockefeller, a son of Nelson A. Rockefeller and a trustee of the fund, said that he foresees financial problems ahead for companies that have stockpiled more reserves than they can burn without contributing significantly to climate damage. “We see this as having both a moral and economic dimension,” he said.
纳尔逊·A·洛克菲勒(Nelson A. Rockefeller)之子、该基金的受托人之一史蒂文·洛克菲勒(Steven Rockefeller)表示，他认为那些囤积的储量超出消耗量，并且没有给气候事业做出贡献的公司，将来会面临财务困境。“我们认为，这个问题既有道德影响，也有经济影响，”他说。
Activism to divest from fossil fuel companies began on college campuses, but the record of success there has been mixed.
呼吁从化石燃料企业撤资的行动始于大学校园，但那里的收获情况却成败参半。
The university with the biggest endowment, Harvard, has declined to divest, despite pressure from many students and outside organizations.
尽管受到了许多学生和外部组织的压力，但获得捐款最多的哈佛大学(Harvard)却拒绝撤资。
Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard’s president, has issued statements that she and her colleagues do not believe that divestment is “warranted or wise,” and argued that the school’s $32.7 billion endowment “is a resource, not an instrument to impel social or political change.”
哈佛大学校长德鲁·吉尔平·福斯特(Drew Gilpin Faust)发表声明称，自己和同事不认为撤资是“必要或明智的”，并称哈佛的327亿美元捐款“是一笔资源，而不是用来推动社会或政治变革的工具”。
Stanford recently announced it would divest its holdings in the coal industry; Yale University’s investment office asked its money managers to examine how its investments affect climate change and to look into avoiding companies that do not take sensible “steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.” The announcement did not satisfy students pressing for divestment.
斯坦福大学(Stanford)前不久宣布将放弃煤炭行业的股份；耶鲁大学(Yale University)的投资办公室要求自己的基金管理人员，研究其投资对气候变化的影响情况，并考虑不要对那些采取逃避态度、没有实施合理的“温室气体减排举措”的公司进行投资。该声明未能让迫切要求撤资的学生满意。
Pitzer College, however, is one of a number of schools that have promised more extensive efforts to remove fossil fuels from their endowments. Donald P. Gould, a trustee and chair of the Pitzer investment committee and president of Gould Asset Management, said that everyone involved in the decision knew that the direct and immediate effect on the companies would be minimal.
然而，有许多院校已经承诺会做出更广泛的努力，从其捐赠基金中剔除化石燃料企业，匹泽学院(Pitzer College)就是其中之一。匹泽学院投资委员会主席兼受托人、古尔德资产管理(Gould Asset Management)总裁唐纳德·P·古尔德(Donald P. Gould)表示，所有参与决策的人都知道，相关企业立即受到的直接影响是非常小的。