Roy Choi grew up navigating the back streets and alleyways of a dozen Los Angeles neighborhoods. After immigrating from Seoul with his parents at age 2, his childhood was spent exploring South Central, Crenshaw and West Hollywood with a house key tied around his neck, while his parents tried to establish a business.
成长过程之中，罗伊·崔(Roy Choi)一直在洛杉矶十几个社区的老旧街道和小巷子之中穿行。两岁时，他和父母从首尔移民过来。那以后，在父母努力创业的过程中，脖子上挂着房门钥匙的罗伊在南中央区、克伦肖区和西好莱坞区四处漫游，就这样度过了童年。
Buckets of his mom’s homemade kimchi were the constant, he recalls in his memoir cum cookbook, “L.A. Son.” Chili spaghetti from Bob’s Big Boy and carne asada, grilled in parking lots by his street crew, helped round out his story, which, after several twists and turns, landed him in Kogi, the city’s hottest food truck, selling his now classic Korean taco.
他写了一本附有食谱的回忆录《洛杉矶之子》(L.A. Son)，在书中回忆说，不变的是母亲亲手做的一桶又一桶韩国泡菜。鲍勃家(Bob)大男孩餐厅(Big Boy)的辣味意大利面，以及街头小伙伴在停车场烤制的烤肉，让他的故事变得丰满。几经周折后，他的故事让他得以进入洛杉矶最火热的快餐车Kogi，开始售卖他的韩式墨西哥玉米卷。现在，他的韩式墨西哥玉米卷已经成了经典美食。
His latest project — Pot, a veritable Korean market, at the Line hotel in Los Angeles’s Koreatown — has sent him tromping through his deepest roots in Seoul and other parts of South Korea to find the best hot pot or red bean bun. In a recent phone conversation, he talked about opening his heart to the country’s flavors, leading hotel executives through Seoul and his advice on how to feel at home in the country’s restaurants. Below are edited excerpts from that conversation.
他最近的项目是Pot，位于洛杉矶韩国城莱恩酒店的一个正宗韩国市场。为了这个项目，他前往首尔及韩国其他地方寻根，物色最好的火锅和豆沙包。在前不久的一次电话交谈中，他说到了自己对韩国风味敞开心扉，带领酒店高管在首尔穿行的经历，并就如何自在享受韩国餐厅的美食给出了建议。以下是经过编辑的谈话节选。
Q. How do you approach travel? 
问：你是怎么对待旅行的？
A. I don’t have many hobbies or talents other than cooking, but I’ve always been good at figuring out a city. I wanted to be a topographer when I was young. I have a sort of innate instinct. I’m a street food vendor, so I kind of know how to feel the city. I like to look for what’s going on behind things a little bit; see what’s not seen.
答：除了烹饪，我没有太多的爱好和才能，但我一直擅长摸清楚一个城市。年轻时，我曾想成为一名地质学者。我有一种与生俱来的本能。我是一个卖食物的街头小贩，因此多少知道如何去感知这座城市。我喜欢稍微研究一下事物的背后是什么，去了解眼睛看不见的东西。
What was it like going to South Korea? 
去韩国感觉怎么样？
I went back for the first time when I was 16. When you have parents that come from a country that you weren’t raised in, you feel this weird sense of familiarity, like you’ve returned to something. You step out and it’s like, wow, I’ve never been around this many Asians before. Everything I do at home, they do here as well. But then people come at you differently, expecting things from you. You can’t easily explain and say, “Yo, I’m not from here.”
第一次回去的时候，我只有16岁。如果你父母的原籍并不是你成长的国度，你会有一种怪怪的熟悉感，像是回到了什么地方。你走出门去，感觉就像是，哇，以前我周围从来没有过这么多亚洲人。我在家里做的一切，这里的人也会做。但人们会给你特殊的对待，对你有所期待。你不能简单地解释说，“嗨，我不是这儿的人。”
How often do you visit South Korea? 
你多久去一次韩国？
I’ve been back maybe 12, 14 times since the late 1980s, to visit family and following my parents showing me the homeland. As a college student I went on these language and culture programs, 21, 22 years old, all alone. That was hellafun.
从上世纪80年代末开始，我已经回去了大概12次或14次，去看家人，跟着父母参观祖国。二十一、二岁的时候，我作为大学生独自参加了一些语言和文化项目。非常非常有趣。
One of these last trips, I took executives from the hotel. It wasn’t like the tourism board type of trip, where I mashed the whole culture into a sound bite. I wanted to show them my microcosm of Korea. So it was about all the things I love: the underground food markets, the malls, the street stalls, the outdoor fish market, the little snacks and bread stands, the coffee shops; all the little things that I think are really special.
最近的一次旅行期间，我带上了酒店的一些高管。那次不像观光局安排的那种旅行，参加那种旅行的时候，我把整个文化揉进一个短片就行了。我想让他们看看我眼中的韩国缩影。因此，我介绍的都是我喜欢的东西：地下食品市场、购物商场、街头店铺、室外鱼市、小小的零食和面包摊档、咖啡厅。都是些我觉得非常特别的小地方。
What was on your must-do itinerary?  
什么地方是你从不错过的？
The Shindang-dong neighborhood in Seoul. It’s famous for its spicy rice cakes, tteokbokki. There’s one college frat row bar-type street, but instead of bars, you stumble from one spicy rice cake to another. And the department stores, like Lotte. The bottom floor of the malls are like Eataly in New York, but more compressed. There are just piles and piles of food and all kinds of people working down there. Like an amusement park. And Korean bakeries. European pastries rule the world — the obligatory croissants and Danishes — but we never really acknowledge the Taiwanese and Korean bakeries: red bean buns, cream buns, mochi cakes, taro buns, peanut butter buns, sesame rice cakes, all these things. They’re baked just like in a French boulangerie, thrown on racks, people throwing elbows to get at them.
首尔的新堂洞(Shindang-dong)。那里以辣炒年糕闻名。那里有一条大学酒吧街式的街道，但街上没有酒吧，只有一家又一家的辣炒年糕店。那里还有一些百货公司，比如乐天(Lotte)。商场的底层像纽约的Eataly，但是更加密集。那里有成堆的食物和各种各样的商贩，就像一座游乐园。还有韩式烘焙。欧洲烘焙——比如不得不提的牛角面包和丹麦甜糕饼——主宰了整个世界，但我们从未真正了解台湾和韩国烘焙：红豆包、奶油面包、糯米糕、芋茸包、花生包、芝麻糕等等。它们的烘焙方式与法式烘焙房的操作相似：糕点放在架子上，人们都争着去拿。
Where are your favorite places to eat? 
你最喜欢去哪里吃东西？
Myeong-dong in Seoul is an area that is crazy at night, just packed. Young females go there because there are lots of cosmetics and street food. Also, Hongdae, a college area kind of like Washington Square Park near N.Y.U., known for fish cakes, grilled sausages, noodles, and youth and energy. Namdaemun, South Gate, is like an open-air market. And Tongdaemun, East Gate, is like a wholesale market. It really gets hopping around 2 a.m. That’s when everyone comes out, the streets are alive.
一到夜晚，首尔的明洞(Myeong-dong)就会变得很疯狂，简直是人满为患。年轻女子喜欢去那里，因为那里有很多化妆品和街头小吃。还有与纽约大学附近的华盛顿广场公园(Washington Square Park)相似的Hongdae大学区，那里以炸鱼饼、烤肠、面条和青春活力著称。南大门(Namdaemun)像个露天市场，东大门(Tongdaemun)则像个批发市场。凌晨2点左右，这里会变得非常热闹。大家都在这个时候出来，街道也会变得生机蓬勃。
Where did you go to find hot pots? 
你去哪里吃火锅？
That took me down a bunch of little rabbit holes. I went to Busan, because it’s right on the ocean, near Japan, and they are famous for their seafood. So I had a lot of fish there in an area called Haeundae Beach, famous for clear broth stews, and that was huge for me. I also went to Cheonan, an area famous for its walnuts and fruits. I went to check out the farmers’ markets and country-style foods.
我有好几个老据点。我会去釜山，因为它临海，离日本很近，海鲜也很有名。所以我会去一个名叫海云台沙滩(Haeundae Beach)的地方，在那里吃很多鱼，那里的清炖很有名，我觉得好吃极了。我还会去天安(Cheonan)，那里以核桃和水果著称。我会去那里看看农民的市场，尝尝乡村食品。