Writings on the walls of a cave in China record the effects of droughts over the last 500 years, researchers have found.
研究人员发现，在中国一个山洞的墙面上留下的一些文字，记录了过去500年间此地发生的旱灾产生的影响。
The inscriptions are on the walls of Dayu Cave in the Qinling Mountains of central China. They describe the impacts of seven droughts between 1520 and 1920.
这些文字发现于中国中部山脉秦岭中的大鱼洞内，记述了1520年至1920年间，此地发生的七次旱灾。
One inscription, dated 1528, reads, “Drought occurred in the 7th year of the Emperor Jiajing period, Ming Dynasty. Gui Jiang and Sishan Jiang came to Da’an town to acknowledge the Dragon Lake inside in Dayu Cave.”
一段记录于1528年的文字写道，明嘉靖七年这里发生旱灾，姜桂和姜思善来到大安镇，在大鱼洞内祭拜龙湖。
Another, from 1891, reads, “On May 24th, 17th year of the Emperor Guangxu period, Qing Dynasty, the local mayor, Huaizong Zhu, led more than 200 people into the cave to get water. A fortune-teller named Zhenrong Ran prayed for rain during the ceremony.”
另一段记录于1891年的文字写道，“光绪十七年，导领沟，五月廿四日，总约朱怀宗统领众姓二百余名，取水到此。卜水师冉祯荣。”
The cave inscriptions are described in the journal Scientific Reports.
关于这些洞穴文字的研究文章发表在了《科学报告》(Scientific Reports)杂志上。
Researchers also analyzed stalagmites in Dayu Cave, which are formed by dripping water and contain rings that record their growth, as do trees.
研究人员还分析了大鱼洞内的石笋，它们是由洞顶滴落的水珠中的石灰质沉积而成的，有体现增长变化的环形痕迹，如同树木的年轮一样。
After analyzing the stable isotopes of oxygen, carbon and concentrations of uranium and other elements inside the stalagmites, the researchers found higher oxygen and carbon isotope ratios in years with lower rainfall.
在对洞内石笋里含有的碳和氧的稳定同位素、铀浓度及其他元素进行分析之后，研究人员发现，在雨量少的年份里，石笋中氧和碳的同位素比率更高。
“We now have a direct link between what people experienced at the time and our geochemical reference,” said Sebastian Breitenbach, a climate scientist at the University of Cambridge and one of the paper’s co-authors.
“我们在当时人们经历的状况和相应的地理化学参数之间，发现了直接的关联，”剑桥大学气候科学家、这篇论文的共同作者塞巴斯蒂安·布赖滕巴赫(Sebastian Breitenbach)说。
He and his colleagues used the information from the stalagmites to construct a model of precipitation in the region in more recent times. It correlated with a drought in the 1990s and predicted another in the late 2030s.
他和同事们利用从石笋中获得的信息，建立了体现这一地区较近年代降水情况的模型。该模型显示的信息，与1990年代出现的一次旱灾情况一致，也预测出在本世纪30年代晚期，该地区还会再度发生旱灾。