Zimbabwe’s military said early Wednesday that it had taken custody of President Robert Mugabe. In a broadcast, an officer declared that the military was “targeting criminals” around the 93-year-old president.
津巴布韦军方周三早些时候表示，他们拘押了该国总统罗伯特·穆加贝(Robert Mugabe)。在一次广播中，一名军官称军方的行动针对的是这名93岁总统身旁的“犯罪分子”。
The military appeared to have taken control of the state broadcaster, ZBC. Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo, the army’s chief of staff, said in a predawn appearance that the president and his family were “safe and sound and their security is guaranteed.”
军方似乎已经控制了国家广播电台ZBC。军方司令S·B·莫约少将(Maj. Gen. S.B. Moyo)表示，总统及其家人 “安然无恙，他们的安全得到了保障”。
Mr. Mugabe has been Zimbabwe’s only leader since it gained independence in 1980. Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, 75, had been seen as a likely successor, but he was removed from office last week, a move that bolstered the political fortunes of Mr. Mugabe’s wife, Grace Mugabe, 52.
在津巴布韦于1980年独立以来，穆加贝是该国唯一的领导人。75岁的副总统艾默生·穆南加格瓦(Emmerson Mnangagwa)被认为是可能的继任者，但他上周已被从其位上罢黜，此举被广泛认为是在为穆加贝52岁的妻子格蕾丝·穆加贝(Grace Mugabe)扫清障碍。
Is this a coup?
这是场政变吗？
It certainly looks like one. General Moyo said, “This is not a military takeover,” but the image of men in uniform on state television in the middle of the night suggested otherwise.
它看起来像是一场政变。莫约说：“这不是军事政变。”但半夜在国家电视台上穿制服出现的男人们看起来像是另一回事。
The military said that it had moved to “pacify a degenerating political, social and economic situation” and that once its mission was completed “the situation will return to normalcy.”
军方表示，他们已经开始“平息一个正在恶化的政治、社会和经济形势”，一旦任务完成，“情况将恢复正常”。
While General Moyo called Mr. Mugabe the commander in chief, the military’s actions starkly revealed the limits of the president’s control.
虽说莫约称穆加贝为总司令，但军方的行动却鲜明地揭示了总统的控制力受限。
Who are the main figures? 
谁是主要角色？
Robert Mugabe. He has been at the forefront of Zimbabwe’s politics for decades, first heading the fight against white minority rule, then serving as the country’s leader since independence in 1980. Through a combination of political maneuvering and authoritarian tactics, he has maintained his grip on power through his governing party, the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, or ZANU-PF.
罗伯特·穆加贝。他站在津巴布韦的政治前台已有数十年之久。他最开始领导了反抗白人统治的运动；自从1980年独立以来，一直担任该国的领导人。通过一系列政治操纵和专制手段，他一直掌握着执政党“津巴布韦非洲民族联盟爱国阵线”(ZANU-PF)的权力。
Emmerson Mnangagwa. A longtime ally of the president and a fellow veteran of the war for independence, Mr. Mnangagwa is a hard-liner who became vice president and Mr. Mugabe’s probable successor three years ago. He is known as the Crocodile; as justice minister, he helped keep Mr. Mugabe in power by cracking down on the opposition.
 艾默生·穆南加格瓦。他是总统的长期盟友，也是独立战争中穆加贝的战友。三年前，穆南加格瓦成为副总统。他立场强硬，被认为是穆加贝的可能继任者。他被人称为“鳄鱼”；在任司法部长一职期间，他帮助穆加贝保持权力，打击反对派。
Grace Mugabe. Mr. Mugabe’s wife of 21 years, Ms. Mugabe is the head of ZANU-PF’s women’s wing and has support from the party’s younger activists. She led the campaign against another rival to succeed her husband, former Vice President Joice Mujuru, and after Mr. Mnangagwa was removed from office she was seen as Mr. Mugabe’s most likely heir.
格蕾丝·穆加贝。她成为穆加贝的妻子已有21年。她是ZANU-PF妇女分支的领导人，受到该党年轻活动分子的支持。她曾领导政治运动，反对她丈夫的挑战者、前副总统乔伊斯·穆朱鲁(Joice Mujuru)。在穆南加格瓦被革职后，格蕾丝·穆加贝被认为是最可能成为穆加贝继任者的人选。
What we don’t know
我们不知道的事
Much is uncertain, and events are still unfolding. In the early hours of the military action, there were no public statements by Mr. Mugabe, Ms. Mugabe or Mr. Mnangagwa. The degree to which any of them support or oppose the military’s moves is unclear.
许多事情仍不确定，事件仍在不断发展。在军事行动开始后的最初几个小时，穆加贝夫妇和穆南加格瓦都没有做出任何公开声明。他们中的哪些人对军事行动支持或反对到何种程度，均不得而知。
Likewise, the military’s long-term plans are vague. General Moyo called on all soldiers to return to their barracks and announced a cancellation of all leave. He also warned other security services to cooperate. The extent to which the military might face resistance, from outside or from within, is unknown.
同样，军队的长期计划也很模糊。莫约呼吁所有士兵返回军营，并宣布取消一切休假。他还警告其他安全部门合作。关于军队会遭到何种程度的抵抗，是从军队外部还是内部，目前尚不清楚。
There was no obvious unrest in Harare, the capital, as the work day began on Wednesday. Taxis were operating, and while some soldiers could be seen on major roads, they were not stopping commuters.
周三工作日开始后，津巴布韦首都哈拉雷没有发生发生明显的骚乱。出租车仍在正常运营，尽管主要道路上可以看到一些士兵，但他们并没有对通勤者进行拦截。