When the main challengers in Zimbabwe’s presidential election tried to import motorcycles to register voters across vast distances, the government impounded them, forcing the party to use bicycles instead. Then the challengers’ election chief was jailed less than a week before the vote, and denied bail the day before it.
津巴布韦总统大选中的主要挑战者试图进口摩托车，为距离遥远的选民进行登记，但政府没收了这些摩托车，迫使该党使用自行车。然后，在投票前不到一个星期，挑战者的竞选活动负责人被关进监狱，在大选前一天，其保释要求也没有获得批准。
President Robert Mugabe, the man who has ruled Zimbabwe since the end of white domination in 1980, retains his iron grip on the country’s feared security apparatus, which killed more than 200 people in the 2008 presidential election season. Now nearing 90, he is running again on Wednesday, and there are few signs that he is ready to give up the reins after more than three decades in power.
自从1980年白人统治结束以来，总统罗伯特·穆加贝(Robert Mugabe)就一直统治津巴布韦。他仍然在以铁腕控制着该国令人恐惧的安全机构。该机构在2008年总统大选期间杀害了200多人。上周三，现已年近九旬的穆加贝再次参选。没有太多迹象显示，他准备在执政30多年后放弃权力。
“The 89 years don’t mean anything,” a confident Mr. Mugabe said in a rare interview. “They haven’t changed me, have they? They haven’t withered me. They haven’t made me senile yet, no. I still have ideas, ideas that need to be accepted by my people.”
自信的穆加贝难得接受一次采访，他说，“89岁不算什么。年龄并没有改变我，是吧？没有令我枯萎，也没有令我苍老，没有。我仍然有想法，那些需要我的人民接受的想法。”
But even with the shadow of the last election still looming, Edison Masunda was unafraid as he joined others streaming into a dusty field at the edge of the city center, part of a crimson wave of tens of thousands who gathered for the challenging party’s final rally on Monday.
虽然上一次大选的阴影仍在，但是周一在紧邻市中心的一块尘土飞扬的空地上，爱迪生·马苏恩达(Edison Masunda)却毫无畏惧。人们不断地涌向这里，数万人聚集起来，参加反对党在选举前的最后一次集会，他们组成了一片深红色的海洋。
It was a far cry from the thick blanket of fear that smothered the country in 2008, when many opposition supporters dared not wear their party’s red insignia or openly show their political loyalties, lest roaming bands of Mugabe supporters beat them up, or worse.
这与2008年令津巴布韦窒息的浓厚恐惧气氛截然不同。当时，许多反对派的支持者不敢佩戴该党的红色徽标，也不敢公开表明自己的政治倾向，以免遭到四处游荡的穆加贝支持者的殴打，或陷入更恶劣的境遇。
“I want to see a new Zimbabwe,” said Mr. Masunda, a 25-year-old unemployed mechanic, as he prepared to cast a vote against the only president he had ever known, Mr. Mugabe. “We have no fear. Mugabe must go. The people will speak.”
25岁的失业技工马苏恩达已经准备好投票反对穆加贝，他所知道的唯一一个总统。他说，“我希望看到一个新的津巴布韦。我们不害怕。穆加贝必须下台。民众会表达自己的意见。”
Mr. Masunda and the others massed in the field, renamed Freedom Square, within sight of the headquarters of Mr. Mugabe’s party, emblazoned with its towering black cockerel insignia.
马恩苏达和其他人聚集的这块空地，现被更名为自由广场。在那里能看到穆加贝所属政党的总部，楼上装饰着该党高耸的黑色公鸡徽标。
“Bye bye, Mugabe, bye bye!” they chanted in unison, palms aloft in a vast, synchronized wave.
“再见，穆加贝，再见！”他们齐声呼喊，并用同样的节奏挥舞着高举的双手。
Many Zimbabweans are calling this the most important election since Mr. Mugabe, a hero of liberation, first came to power. Wednesday’s vote is being held on a tight timetable and a shoestring budget as a result of Mr. Mugabe’s insistence that it be held by the end of August.
许多津巴布韦人将此次选举称为解放英雄穆加贝上台以来最重要的选举。由于穆加贝坚持在8月底之前举行选举，所以周三的投票时间紧、预算少。
The voter registration process was truncated, and just two days before the election there was still no final list of voters, as required by law. Early voting by police officers and emergency workers was chaotic, and many were unable to cast their ballots.
选民登记过程曾被打断，法律规定必需的最终选民名单，到选举前两天仍然没有出现。警察和急救人员的提前投票很混乱，许多人无法投票。
The government has barred Western observers like those from the European Union, but the African Union and the regional trade bloc, the Southern African Development Community, as well as local organizations, have been accredited in large numbers and will be watching at the polls.
政府拒绝了西方世界，如欧盟(European Union)派出的观察员。但是非洲联盟(African Union)、区域贸易组织南部非洲发展共同体(Southern African Development Community)及一些当地组织的大批人员已经获得批准，并将观察投票。
And unlike the last election, when most foreign journalists were barred, social media will be a prominent part of the campaign. Both Mr. Mugabe’s party, ZANU-PF, and its main challenger, the Movement for Democratic Change, are using Twitter and Facebook to get out news. Several Web sites have sprung up to monitor election irregularities, and the challengers are counting on voters to use their cellphones to announce results as they come in and to report abuses.
上次选举中，大多数外国记者都被拒之门外。而这一次，社交媒体将成为选举中的一个突出部分。穆加贝的政党非洲民族同盟-爱国阵线(ZANU-PF)及其主要挑战者争取民主变革运动(Movement for Democratic Change)，都在使用Twitter和Facebook发布新闻。网站如雨后春笋般涌现，以监督选举违规情况。挑战者准备依靠选民，在选举结果公布时用手机发布消息，并举报违规行为。
The absence of violence as the election approached has emboldened many to openly support the main presidential challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai. Divisions within Mr. Mugabe’s party have also weakened his hand, with a succession struggle pitting the vice president against the defense minister in the race to succeed him.
选举日期临近却没有出现暴力现象，这使许多人有勇气公开支持总统的挑战者摩根·茨万吉拉伊(Morgan Tsvangirai)。穆加贝的党内分歧也削弱了他的力量，为了争夺穆加贝继任者的地位，副总统和国防部长产生了冲突。
“Mugabe’s own house is not in order,” said Pedzisai Ruhanya, a researcher at the Zimbabwe Democracy Institute, an advocacy group. “People feel they can come out and have their say in this election like never before.”
“穆加贝自己家里的事情都还没处理好，”倡导团体津巴布韦民主研究所(Zimbabwe Democracy Institute)研究员佩吉塞·鲁哈尼亚(Pedzisai Ruhanya)表示。“民众从来都不曾像现在这样，感觉自己能走上街头，在选举中表达自己的意见。”
But that may not translate into an easy victory for the challengers, even if they win the most votes. One veteran analyst who did not wish to be identified because he fears arrest said that the election observers are mainly looking for violence, not fraud.
然而这也并不意味着挑战者能轻松取胜，即使他们赢得大部分选票。一位经验丰富的分析人士表示，选举观察人士主要关注的是暴力，而不是舞弊。这位分析人士因为害怕遭到逮捕，不愿公开身份。
“Last time it was all about intimidation and violence,” the analyst said. “This time the rigging hinges on technical issues like the voters roll and the vote tabulation.”
“上次的主要手段是恐吓和暴力，”该名分析人士表示。“这次的操纵手段主要会靠选民名单和票数汇总等技术问题。”
In a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Mugabe bantered and joked with journalists as he sat flanked by stuffed lions and cheetahs on the veranda leading to his office.
在周二举行的新闻发布会上，穆加贝与记者们谈笑风生，他坐在办公室前的平台上，周围摆放着狮子和猎豹的填充玩偶。
Asked if he would run for yet another term if he won this time (he would be 94 then), he quipped, “Why do you want to know my secrets?”
在被问及如果这次选举取得胜利后，还会不会竞选下个任期时（到时候他就94岁了），他风趣地回答，“你怎么想知道我的秘密呢？”
Mr. Mugabe spoke in valedictory terms about his achievements, saying that history would remember him as a liberator, whatever the outcome of the election.
穆加贝形容自己功绩的用词仿佛是在致告别辞，他说无论选举结果如何，他都会以一个解放者的身份名垂史册。
“If they want to damn me, they will damn me,” he said. “There is no one who is a perfect person. I am not a perfect person. I have my own mistakes here and there.”
“如果他们想要谴责我，就来谴责我吧，”他说。“没有人是完美的，我也不是完人。我在这里或那里也犯过错误。”
Mr. Mugabe incited the seizure of farms owned by white Zimbabweans, which began in 2000 and led to the wholesale collapse of Zimbabwe’s once prosperous economy. Joblessness, hyperinflation and hunger soon followed, though in recent years the agricultural sector has recovered and farmers who were given land have begun to see real increases in their income.
穆加贝煽动没收了津巴布韦白人拥有的农场。没收农场的做法始于2000年，导致津巴布韦一度繁荣的经济全面崩溃，失业、饥饿、恶性通货膨胀接踵而至。不过在最近几年，农业已经恢复，获得土地的农民也看到，自己的收入有了实实在在的增长。
According to the official tally, Mr. Mugabe won fewer votes than Mr. Tsvangirai in the first round of voting in the 2008 presidential election, but Mr. Tsvangirai pulled out of the runoff because of violent state-sponsored attacks on his supporters. After regional powers brokered an agreement to end the crisis, Mr. Tsvangirai joined a power-sharing government and became prime minister.
官方计票结果显示，在2008年总统大选的第一轮投票中，穆加贝赢得的票数少于茨万吉拉伊。不过由于支持者遭受政府支持的暴力攻击，茨万吉拉伊退出了第二轮投票。在地方势力的调停下，双方达成协议终结了危机，茨万吉拉伊加入了分享权力的政府，担任总理。
The two parties were supposed to work together to overhaul Zimbabwe’s institutions ahead of fresh elections, and they managed to pass a new Constitution that many criticized as a flawed compromise. The power-sharing government switched the currency to the United States dollar, arresting hyperinflation, but deep reforms of the police and army, which have been implicated in political violence, never took place.
两党原计划会在举行新的选举之前，对津巴布韦的制度进行改革。它们的确成功地通过了一部新宪法，尽管许多人批评它是一个存在瑕疵的妥协产物。分权政府将该国货币改成了美元，从而抑制了严重的通货膨胀，然而针对警察和军队的深入改革却并未发生，它们被指与政治暴力存在瓜葛。
Both parties predict big victories. Polls in Zimbabwe are often unreliable, producing large numbers of undecided voters. The challengers argue that this drastically understates support for them because of what they call the “margin of terror,” people who are too afraid to reveal their party choice.
两党都预测自己会取得巨大胜利。津巴布韦的民调通常并不可靠，显示大量选民投票意向未定。挑战者称，这些调查极大地低估了他们获得的支持，原因是一些人过于害怕，不敢透露自己的选择。这些人被称为“恐惧误差”。
Regardless of who wins, Mr. Mugabe said that he would respect the outcome.
不管是谁获胜，穆加贝说，他都会尊重选举结果。
“If you go into a process and join in a competition, where there are only two outcomes, win or lose, it can’t be both,” Mr. Mugabe said. Asked if he would step down if he lost, he said, “We will do so, yes.”
穆加贝说，“既然走进了这个过程，参加了竞争，就只有两种结果，要么赢，要么输，必居其一。”在被问及如果落败，他是否会下台时，穆加贝说，“是的，我们会这样做。”