MOSCOW — The Georgian capital, Tbilisi, became the city where the wild things are on Saturday night, with lions, tigers, bears and other carnivorous animals roaming the streets after catastrophic flooding destroyed the enclosures of the main zoo.
莫斯科——格鲁吉亚首都第比利斯在周六夜间成了野生动物横行的地方，在一场特大洪水摧毁了动物园的围墙之后，狮子，老虎，熊和其他肉食动物开始在街头游荡。
Residents were warned to stay indoors after heavy rains and roiling waters inundated the center of the city. At least three zoo workers were dead, according to local press reports, which quoted the mayor, Davit Narmania, as saying that at least eight people had been killed and that search and rescue operations were continuing for about 10 more missing.
在暴雨后，洪水淹没了市中心，居民被告诫不要出门。据当地的新闻报道透露，至少有三名动物园的工作人员死亡。该报道援引第比利斯市长达维特·纳玛尼亚(Davit Narmania)报道称，至少有八人死亡，10多人失踪，而搜救工作还在继续进行中。
It was not immediately clear how many animals were on the loose and how many had been killed in the floods.
目前无法迅速得知有多少动物在外游荡，又有多少动物在洪水中丧命。
Images from the city underscored the animal anarchy — one showed a group of people herding a hippopotamus along a street choked with mud, after it had been hit by a tranquilizer dart. Others showed the corpses of animals amid the debris of wrecked cars and buildings.
从一些城市的画面中就可以看出动物带来的混乱景象。其中的一个画面显示了一群人站在满是泥泞的街边，围着一头被麻醉飞镖击中后的河马。从其他画面可以看到，汽车和建筑物的残骸中出现了多具动物尸体。
A special police unit was dispatched to the neighborhoods around the zoo to hunt for the roaming animals, according to Rustavi 2 television.
据鲁斯塔维电视2台(Rustavi 2 Television)报道，一只特警部队被派往动物园附近的地区，搜捕四处游荡的动物。
Some of the animals were killed when they could not be captured, the report said, including six wolves found on the grounds of a children’s hospital as well as a bear and a hyena. Some residents expressed indignation at those killings, but officials said various animals were too aggressive to be captured.
据报道，一些动物因无法被捕获而遭到射杀，其中包括在一家儿童医院发现的六匹狼，一只熊和一条鬣狗。一些居民对射杀动物的行径表示愤怒，不过官员表示很多动物攻击性太强，难以捕获。
Helicopters were swooping low over the city to try to spot the animals. Those missing after the flood included 20 wolves, eight lions, and several tigers and jaguars, Interfax reported. Only three of 17 penguins survived, the Russian news agency said.
直升飞机在城市上空低空盘旋，试图找出动物。据国际文传电讯社(Interefax News Agency)报道，洪水发生后，大批动物失踪，其中包括20匹狼，八头狮子，数头老虎和美洲豹。据该俄罗斯新闻通讯社透露，17只企鹅中，只有三只幸存。
One zoo worker who died while trying to save the animals, Guliko Chitadze, a 25-year veteran of the Tbilisi Zoo, had her arm amputated in late May after she was attacked by a tiger, Interfax said.
一名动物园工作人员在试图解救动物时丧命。古莉科· 赤塔泽(Guliko Chitadze)是第比利斯动物园的资深工作人员，已在那里工作了25年。据国际文传电讯社透露，她在5月末因为被一只老虎袭击而截去了一只手臂。