When Joe Garcia spotted a rescue boat on Monday outside his flooded home in Spring, a suburb north of Houston, he pushed a plastic tub of his belongings through chest-high water and loaded it on the boat. Then he returned to his home to grab one more prized possession: Heidi, his German shepherd.
乔·加西亚(Joe Garcia)住在休斯顿北郊的斯普林，周一，他看到自己遭水淹的房子外面有一艘救援艇，于是在齐胸深的水里推着一个装着财物的塑料盆走过去，把它装到了船上。然后他又回家去取更珍贵的财产：海蒂(Heidi)，他的德国牧羊犬。
Mr. Garcia, his body soaked, carried Heidi through the rising floodwaters, making sure her head stayed dry, and lifted her to safety on a volunteer’s fishing boat. They were whisked away in a moment captured by a photographer with The Associated Press.
加西亚浑身湿透了，他抱着海蒂，走过正在上涨的洪水，确保她的头部不沾到水，然后将她放在志愿者的船上。美联社摄影师拍下了他们的照片。
Over the past several days, Tropical Storm Harvey has unleashed breathtaking amounts of rain in the Houston area, paralyzing the region and transforming streets into fast-moving rivers. Thousands of people have been displaced, with many still waiting to be rescued.
过去几天，飓风“哈维”(Harvey)给休斯顿地区带来了大量降水，导致该地区陷入瘫痪，街道变成了水流湍急的河流。成千上万的人流离失所，很多人仍在等待救援。
When people are plucked to safety, they often take with them the clothes on their backs and the few possessions they can carry. For many people, that includes taking their pets, hoisting them onto boats and into high-water vehicles before riding together to dry ground.
当人们被救到安全地带时，他们往往背着自己的衣服，抱着能携带的少量财物。对于很多人来说，这其中就包括他们的宠物，他们将宠物抱到船上，或者底盘高的车上，然后一起前往没有被淹的地方。
But that is not always the case. Many pets have been left behind, abandoned in homes, chained to trees and left for strangers and animal shelters to round up and rescue. And some animals such as cattle were simply too big to move before Harvey arrived.
但情况并非总是如此。很多宠物被遗弃在家中，被栓在树上，留给陌生人和动物庇护所处理和抢救。而像牛这样的动物太大了，在“哈维”飓风到达的时候无法撤离。
But Winston and Baxter, a West Highland terrier and a Shih Tzu, were never going to leave Belinda Penn’s side. The floodwaters began to seep through the exterior doors of her home in Spring on Sunday afternoon and started to fill up the first floor.
但西高地小猎犬温斯顿(Winston)和狮子狗巴克斯特(Baxter)绝对不会离开贝琳达·宾(Belinda Penn)的身边。周日下午，洪水渗过她在斯普林的住宅的大门，开始漫过一楼。
She and her husband, Scott, grabbed the dogs and retreated to their second floor. The family was upended, but Winston and Baxter had their crates and food on the second floor. It did not matter, though, Ms. Penn said. They were too nervous to eat.
她和丈夫斯科特(Scott)带着狗狗上了二楼。这家人陷入困境，但是温斯顿和巴克斯特在二楼都有自己的窝和食物。这也没用，贝琳达说，它们太紧张了，吃不下东西。
Around 11 a.m. on Monday, a neighbor told the Penns that a rescue boat was on the way. They loaded garbage bags with clothes and dog food, and carried the dogs through the water. On Monday night, they had reached Ms. Penn’s mother’s apartment in the suburb of the Woodlands.
周一上午11点左右，一名邻居告诉夫妇俩，一艘救援艇正在路上。他们把衣服和狗粮装进垃圾袋里，抱着狗狗趟过水。周一晚上，他们到达了伍德兰郊区贝琳达母亲的公寓。
“Every situation is different, but for us, it was not an option to leave our pets behind,” Ms. Penn said. “They are my best friends.”
“每个人的情况都不同，但我们是不可能抛下宠物的。”贝琳达说。“它们是我最好的朋友。”
Other animals were not as fortunate.
其他动物就没有这么幸运了。
A woman in Corpus Christi said on Twitter that she took in her neighbor’s dog left in the backyard. A photographer for The Daily Mail rescued a dog he found chained to a pole in Victoria, waters rising around him, the paper reported. In Dickinson, a CNN reporter spotted two retrievers abandoned in a boat.
科珀斯克里斯蒂的一名女子在Twitter上表示，她收留了邻居留在后院的狗。《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)的一位摄影师在维多利亚救了一只被拴在杆子上的狗，根据报道，他周围的水正在上涨。在迪金森，一名CNN记者在一艘船上发现了两条被抛弃的猎犬。
In San Antonio, the city’s Animal Care Services Department had taken in about 200 displaced animals as of Monday afternoon. More were on the way.
圣安东尼奥市的动物管控部门在周一下午接收了大约200只无家可归的动物。还有更多的动物正在被送往那里。
Rescued dogs were being held in rows of cages in an air-conditioned warehouse east of downtown San Antonio. Cats, for their own peace of mind, were taken to a separate location.
在圣安东尼奥市中心以东一个带有空调的仓库内，获救的狗狗被关在一排排的笼子里。猫则被带到另一个地方，这有助于稳定它们的情绪。
“Our commitment is for as long as it takes and as long as the nation needs our help,” Heber Lefgren, the department’s director, said in an interview.
“只要这个国家需要我们的帮助，不管多久，我们都会尽责，”该部门主管赫伯·勒夫格伦(Heber Lefgren)在接受采访时表示。
Some animals already in the shelter’s care before the storm were expected to be flown to animal centers in other states to make room for displaced pets from Harvey. On Tuesday morning, the first flight full of dogs and cats is scheduled to depart San Antonio for New Jersey. On Wednesday, a flight will head to Seattle.
在飓风抵达之前，就已经有一些动物在这个避难所里了，它们将被送到其他州的动物中心，为“哈维”飓风中失去家园的宠物腾出空间。周二上午，第一架装满狗和猫的飞机从圣安东尼奥飞往新泽西州。周三还有一架飞机前往西雅图。
“There’s a likelihood that this could go on for weeks, because as the waters recede, they are going to be finding more and more pets that are displaced,” said Kim Alboum, a director at the Humane Society of the United States, which was organizing the flights.
“这个过程可能会持续数周时间，因为随着洪水的消退，将会有越来越多的流离失所宠物出现。”安排航班的美国善待动物协会(Humane Society of the United States)主管金·阿尔博姆(Kim Alboum)说。
Pets were also helping rescuers track down people who were stuck in their homes. Marty Lancton and another firefighter in Houston were driving people to rescue in a boat in southwestern Houston when he spotted two dogs on a roof.
宠物也帮助救援人员找到了那些被困在家中的人。休斯敦消防员马蒂·兰克顿(Marty Lancton)和一名同事开着船在该市西南部救援群众时，发现一户人家的屋顶上有两只狗。
“Something didn’t sit right,” Mr. Lancton said, describing why it caught his attention.
“感觉有点不对劲儿，”兰克顿说，这引起了他的注意。
The firefighters, their boat already crowded as they ran rescues, pulled closer to the home and soon saw a message on the glass of the front door: “Help.”
这两名消防员的船上已经挤满了被救出的人，他们开船靠近这户人家，很快就在前门的玻璃上看到一个条子：“救命”。
“We backed up the boat — the water was almost halfway to three-quarters of the way up the house — we busted the window, tried to call for somebody and the homeowner was in the garage,” said Mr. Lancton, the president of the Houston Professional Fire Fighters Association.
兰克顿说：“我们把船倒回来一点——水几乎漫到了房子四分之三处——我们打破窗户，呼喊业主，当时业主在车库里。”兰克顿是休斯敦职业消防员协会主席。
He said he never found out why the dogs were put on the roof. Maybe there was no room in the house. Maybe they were there to catch someone’s attention.
他说他一直不明白为什么狗被放在了屋顶上。也许房子里没有空间了。也许它们在那里是为了吸引人们的注意。
“Either way, it worked,” Mr. Lancton said.
“无论原因为何，这么做都产生了效果，”兰克顿说。