When you come back to Moscow after a long absence the city overwhelms you, swallowing you up in its around-the-clock bustle. It is as hectic and surreal as ever. Parks, cafes and clubs are all full of well-dressed people. And those with clout, the powers that be in the political, economic and media worlds, continue to add new diversions.
长时间离开后再回到莫斯科，这座城市会将你淹没，让你陷入昼夜不停的喧嚣之中。它还是一如既往的繁忙和超现实。公园、咖啡馆和俱乐部里满是衣着讲究的人。而那些有影响力的人，那些在政治、经济和媒体界的掌权派，依然在增添新东西转移人们的注意力。
Prominent among them is the $27 million Garage Center, a sophisticated museum of contemporary art that has just opened in Gorky Park. It was created by the socialite Dasha Zhukova, funded by her husband, the billionaire tycoon Roman Abramovich, and designed by one of the world’s most influential architects, Rem Koolhaas.
其中格外引人注目的是耗资2700万美元修建的车库中心(Garage Center)。这是一座高雅的当代艺术博物馆，刚刚开放不久。位于高尔基公园的该博物馆由社交名流达莎·朱可娃(Dasha Zhukova)创立，她的丈夫、亿万富翁罗曼·阿布拉莫维奇(Roman Abramovich)出资。博物馆的设计则出自全球数一数二的大牌建筑师雷姆·库哈斯(Rem Koolhaas)。
Though Ms. Zhukova’s collection of Rothkos may not be everyone’s cup of tea, Muscovites will soon have another marvel to admire: a 24-meter statue of Vladimir the Great, the prince who Christianized the state of Kievan Rus in the late 10th century. This storied leader is depicted, sword at his side, bearing a large cross, standing in a dignified, traditional manner. What’s more surreal is the controversy over where to put it.
尽管朱可娃收藏的罗斯科的作品，可能不是所有人的菜，但莫斯科人很快将迎来另一件可供瞻仰的作品：24米高的弗拉基米尔大公(Vladimir the Great)雕像。弗拉基米尔大公是十世纪末的一位君主，对基辅罗斯进行了基督教化。这位传奇领袖以一种庄重、传统的方式站着，背着一个大十字架，腰间佩剑。更超现实的，是围绕将雕像安放在哪里引发的争议。
Originally, Prince Vladimir was to be placed on an observation deck in the Sparrow Hills overlooking Moscow. Now city officials want to erect it in Lubyanka Square, in front of the headquarters of the Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., where a statue of the widely feared Felix Dzerzhinsky once stood. The monument to the founder of the Cheka, the precursor of the K.G.B., was toppled in 1991, but Communist Party officials want it back in its former site and have proposed a referendum to resolve the issue.
起初，弗拉基米尔大公雕像是要安放在俯瞰莫斯科的麻雀山的一处观景台上。但现在，市政府官员希望将它安放在联邦安全局(Federal Security Service)总部前面的卢比扬卡广场上。让很多人闻风丧胆的菲利克斯·捷尔任斯基(Felix Dzerzhinsky)的雕像，曾一度立在那里。这位克格勃(KGB)前身“契卡”(Cheka)的创始人的纪念碑，在1991年被推倒，但共产党官员希望让它回到之前的位置上，并提议通过公投解决这个问题。
They are unlikely to get what they want. Dzerzhinsky may be a Communist saint, but the symbolism of the prince’s statue is inescapable. It will celebrate the new Vladimir, not just the old one. This may be obvious, but the subject is avoided in polite conversation.
他们不太可能如愿以偿。捷尔任斯基或许是一名共产主义圣人，但弗拉基米尔大公的雕像所具有的象征意义是无法逃避的。它颂扬的，将不仅是历史上的弗拉基米尔，还有新时代的弗拉基米尔。这一点可能颇为明显，但人们在正常的场合里是不会谈论它的。
There are other topics — rising prices, the fighting in Ukraine, the shape of things to come — that people don’t like to think about, even though these subjects are at times unavoidable. The economy is entering “a full-fledged crisis,” former Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin told Parliament recently. He warned that Russia’s gross domestic product is forecast to be 4 percent lower this year than it was in 2014. Meanwhile, food prices are rising. Official figures indicate a 23 percent jump for the year ending in March, but an informal survey of grocers in my neighborhood suggests a 30 percent jump is more realistic.
人们不想考虑的话题还包括不断上涨的物价、乌克兰境内的战斗以及未来事情的发展，尽管有时候，这些话题是无法避免的。前不久，前财政部长阿里克谢·库德林(Alexei Kudrin)对议会表示，经济正在进入“全面危机”。他警告称，今年俄罗斯的国内生产总值预计会同比减少4%。与此同时，食品正在涨价。官方数据表明，在截至3月的一年时间里，食品价格上涨了23%，但根据对我所在居民区的杂货店进行的一项非正式调查，30%的涨幅更接近现实。
For the first time in 10 years, the government said it won’t be able to raise pensions and other social benefits to fully match inflation, which is officially forecast at 12 percent for the current year. In the first quarter of 2015, more than 23 million people were officially classified as living below the poverty line, three million more than last year.
政府十年来首次表示无力提高养老金和其他社会福利，以完全抵消通货膨胀。官方预计，本年度的通货膨胀为12%。今年第一季度，超过2300万人被正式归为生活在贫困线以下，同比增加300万。
Nevertheless, polls show that President Vladimir Putin is even more popular now than he was a year ago. Most of my countrymen see the reasons behind our economic failures elsewhere, not in Russia. “Why are they doing this to us?” a neighbor who knows I am a journalist asked me, referring to Western sanctions. His remark was typical. I try to explain that they were imposed in response to the Kremlin’s land grab in Crimea, and that the plunge in oil prices was due to a variety of global economic and political factors. But he just gave me that smile. He knows what’s really being done to “us” by “them.”
然而，民意调查显示，弗拉基米尔·普京总统的支持率甚至比一年前还高。我的大部分同胞都认为，经济衰退背后的原因出在其他地方，而不是在俄罗斯自己身上。“他们为什么这么对我们，”一个知道我是记者的邻居问我。他指的是西方的制裁。他的话很典型。我试图解释俄罗斯受到制裁是克里姆林宫吞并克里米亚引发的，而石油价格的下跌则是因为各种各样的全球经济和政治因素引起的。但他只对我报以微笑。他知道“他们”真的在对“我们”做什么。
He’s just one of the many Russians who live in an imaginary, media-concocted universe. My countrymen have gone passive; they’ve become an audience to a Kremlin-distilled version of current events; they watch rather than act. Even as our government becomes less and less “Soviet,” as it consolidates and whittles down health clinics, schools and other services, the Kremlin keeps imposing the old Soviet world view on our citizens.
很多俄罗斯人生活在一个想象中的、媒体编制出来的世界中，他不过是其中之一。我的同胞变得顺从了。对于时事，他们会接受经过克里姆林宫提炼的版本。他们是在观看，而非采取行动。随着合并和减少卫生所、学校和其他服务机构，我们的政府变得越来越不“苏联”，但克里姆林宫一直在把老旧的苏联世界观强加给我们民众。
Domestic issues do not merit airtime on major political news and talk shows. International stories take the lion’s share of programming. Television presents everything that is going on in the world as an epic battle between a great nation and evil foreigners. The recent FIFA corruption scandal and the resignation of its chairman Joseph Blatter was presented by “Vesti Nedeli,” an important weekly commentary show, as an attempt by the United States to take over world soccer. Russia and Putin were portrayed as taking a brave stand to protect the game. But once Mr. Blatter resigned the show stopped following the FIFA story.
国内问题不会出现在大型政治新闻和脱口秀上。国际新闻占据的节目份额是最大的。在电视上，世界上正在发生的一切都被呈现成了一个伟大的民族，与邪恶的外国人之间的一场史诗般的战争。前不久的国际足联(FIFA)腐败丑闻及其主席赛普·布拉特(Sepp Blatter)的辞职，被重要的周播评论性节目Vesti Nedeli称作是美国企图接管世界足球。俄罗斯和普京被描述成为保护世界足球而勇敢抵抗。但布拉特一辞职，该节目就不再跟进国际足联的报道了。
Discussing Russia’s ouster from the G-8, Vitaly Tretyakov, a fiercely pro-Putin commentator on one of the major political talk shows, referred to our country as a “dissident” nation. Mr. Tretyakov, who was a forceful advocate of a free press back the 1990s, declared, without irony: “To be a dissident is a noble vocation.” He was referring of course not to the Russian opposition (they are all just stooges of the West anyway), but rather to our courageous president and his associates, who dare to show their independence and integrity by standing up to American-led Western bullying.
而谈到俄罗斯被逐出八国集团(G8)，坚定支持普京政府的评论人维塔利·特列季亚科夫(Vitaly Tretyakov)在一档重要的政治脱口秀节目中，把我们的国家称为一个“异见者”国家。早在1990年代，特列季亚科夫是新闻自由的一个有力倡导者，如今他不无反讽地宣称，“当异见者是一项崇高的使命。”他指的当然不是被俄罗斯的反对派（他们不过是西方的走狗），而是我们英勇的总统和他的同僚们，他们敢于向美国为首的西方列强展示自己的独立和正直。
The message is always the same. Mr. Putin battles corrupt global elites who are interested only in keeping power. Their center is Washington. Its “party bosses” are depriving Russia of her rightful place in the world. They have defamed and isolated her, sent her into exile, cut her off from her sources of wealth.
他们要传递的信息基本没什么变化。总是普京总统抗击腐化堕落的国际社会精英，这些人只对保住自身的权力感兴趣。他们的中心在华盛顿，其“政党领导们”正在剥夺俄罗斯在世界上应有的地位。他们诽谤她，孤立她，放逐她，切断她的财富来源。