HAVANA — The business ideas have ranged from a bikini franchise to a peanut farm, restaurants, and design firms for software and home interiors. But even more novel than the pitches — in a country where entrepreneurship used to be illegal — is the financial muscle behind them: Cuban-Americans whose last business ventures were seized by Cuba’s Communist government.
哈瓦那——他们的商业构想五花八门，比基尼专卖店、花生农场、餐厅，还有软件和家居设计公司，不一而足。但对于一个曾经颁布法律禁止创业的国家来说，比这些创业计划书更令人意想不到的，是它们背后的资金来源：那些曾被古巴共产党政府夺取了企业的古巴裔美国人。
“It’s all about people not losing hope and seeing that starting a business is a way to improve their lives,” said Eduardo Mestre, 65, a Wall Street banker who returned to Cuba last year for the first time since 1960 to see the start-up training he helps finance. “Emotionally, it’s very hard not to connect with people who have all this ambition in a place where maintaining hope is very hard to do.”
“这都是因为人们没有丧失希望，认识到创业是一条改善生活的途径，”现年65岁的华尔街银行家爱德华多·梅斯特(Eduardo Mestre)说。梅斯特去年回到古巴考察了自己帮助资助的创业培训，这是他1960年以来第一次回古巴。他说，“在这里，保持着对未来的希望是很难的，但这些人却有着如此宏伟的目标，从情感上来讲，很难不去和他们建立联系。”
Many of the first Cubans to leave after Fidel Castro took over are beginning to come back, reuniting with the island they left in bitterness, overcoming decades of heated opposition to its leaders and partnering with Cubans in direct new ways.
许多在菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)夺取政权之后率先离开古巴的人正开始回国，他们克服了对古巴领袖长达数十年的激烈厌恶，重新回到在苦涩中离开的岛国，用新的直接方式与古巴人合作。
Some are educating a new crop of Cuban entrepreneurs to take advantage of the recent limited openings for private enterprise in Cuba. Conservative Republican exiles in Miami have also helped finance the renovation of Cuba’s most revered Roman Catholic shrine. Young heirs to the Bacardi family, which fled Cuba after the revolution, leaving behind luxurious homes and a rum business that employed 6,000 people, are sending disaster relief and supporting artists. And Alfonso Fanjul, the Florida sugar baron, recently acknowledged that he has gone back to Cuba twice, meeting with Cuban officials and later declaring that he would consider investing under the “right circumstances.”
其中一些人正在培训一批新的古巴创业者，从而利用古巴最近为私营企业提供的有限机会。一些流亡到迈阿密的古巴人成为了保守派的共和党成员，他们也参与资助了古巴最受人景仰的罗马天主教堂的修复。 在革命后逃离古巴的百加得(Bacardi)家族留下了奢华的住房和一家有6000名员工的朗姆酒公司。这一家族的年轻后裔正在向古巴送去救灾物资，并为艺术家提供支持。还有佛罗里达州糖业大亨阿方索·凡胡尔(Alfonso Fanjul)，他最近承认，他已经两次回到古巴，与古巴官员见了面，后来表示，他会考虑在“适当的情况下”投资。
It has been a shocking reversal for a community of exiles that has long represented an immovable pillar of support for the American embargo against Cuba, and some Cuban-American lawmakers have responded with outrage. Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, the Miami Republican, called Mr. Fanjul’s trips a “betrayal.”
这对于一个流亡群体来说是一种令人惊讶的转变。这个流亡群体长期以来一直是美国对古巴禁运措施一股不可撼动的支持力量。然而，一些古巴裔美国议员对这种转变表示愤怒。迈阿密共和党议员马里奥·迪亚兹-巴拉特(Mario Diaz-Balart)称凡胡尔回古巴是一种“背叛”。
“The question is how can we better help the Cuban people free themselves from this regime that has been there for over half a century,” he said in an interview. “And the best way to do that is to deny funds to the regime in any way we can.”
他在接受采访时说，“问题是，我们怎样才能更好地帮助古巴人把自己从这个已经存在了半个多世纪的政权中解放出来。最好的办法是尽可能地切断对它的任何资金支持。”
But what has emerged in Miami, New York and elsewhere over the past two years, as President Raúl Castro has opened the economy, just a crack, is an alternative approach that emphasizes grass-roots engagement, often through churches, as a tool for giving Cubans skills and independence from the state. Among many Cuban-Americans who now describe themselves as a part of a diaspora, rather than exiles, a new sense of responsibility — to Cubans on the island, not to the property they lost or to fighting the Castros — has gathered strength.
但过去两年，随着劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)开放了经济——只打开了一条缝而已，迈阿密、纽约和其他地方出现的新状况代表着另一种可能的方式。这种方式强调与普通人的接触，这常常要通过教会，把教会作为给古巴人以技能、帮助其独立于国家的工具。许多古巴裔美国人现在称自己是散居在异乡，而不是流亡者。在这些人中，一种新的责任感正在日益强烈，这种责任感针对的不是他们失去的财产，也不是与卡斯特罗家族的抗争，而是岛上的古巴人。
“We think engagement, dialogue and interaction — lowering the barriers — is the best way to develop civil society, but also some of us who feel some respect for the 11 million people stuck there, we just really feel that’s the right thing to do,” Mr. Mestre said. He added that he sought a new relationship with Cuba, despite the loss of his family’s homes and businesses, including what was once Cuba’s largest television and radio network, because “the loss of our property and wealth is kind of secondary to the feeling about what happened to the country and its people.”
梅斯特说，“我们认为接触、对话和互动——减少障碍——是发展公民社会的最好方式，此外，我们中的一些人对困在那里的1100万古巴人怀有敬意，我们真的觉得，这是我们该做的事。”他补充说，尽管失去了他家的房子和企业，包括曾经是古巴最大电视广播网络的一家公司，他已经在寻求与古巴建立一种新的关系，因为“和我们对这个国家和人民的遭遇的感情相比，我们的财产和财富的损失是次要的。”
The expanding exchange of people, ideas and money is the direct result of policy changes over the past few years in Washington and Havana that have opened up travel and giving for Cubans and Cuban-Americans. After decades of being cut off by politics and geography, the airport here is always crammed with Cuban-Americans coming to see family and lug in gifts, just as it is now more common to see Cuban artists, academics, and dissidents in Florida or New York, where they often mingle with the established Cuban-American elite.
不断扩大的人员、思想和资金交流是过去几年华盛顿和哈瓦那的政策变化的直接结果。双方由此开放了针对古巴人和古巴裔美国人的旅行和捐赠施舍。在政治和地理上被隔绝了数十年之后，这里的机场总是挤满了前来古巴探亲、拖着礼物的古巴裔美国人，与此同时，在佛罗里达州或纽约，越来越容易看到古巴裔的艺术家、学者和异见人士，他们常常在这里与此地有威望的古巴裔美国精英进行交流。
“The broad trend is Cubans, regardless of their politics or ideology, coming here to visit, live and work, and go back and forth,” said Julia Sweig, director of Latin American Studies for the Council on Foreign Relations. “It’s an organic dynamic in which the elite are participating.”
“整体的趋势是古巴人会到这里来游历、生活和工作，在两地间往返了，无论他们的政治或意识形态有什么不同，”对外关系委员会拉美研究中心(Latin American Studies for the Council on Foreign Relations)主任茱莉亚·斯威格(Julia Sweig)说。“这是一种有机的态势，中间有精英阶层的参与。”
For many families, the transition from keeping Cuba at a distance to pulling it close has taken time, and multigenerational discussion. Older and younger members of the Bacardi clan began returning to Santiago de Cuba, the birthplace of their family’s spirits business, in the 1990s, despite the company’s bitter dispute with the Cuban government over Havana Club rum.
对一些家庭来说，从和古巴保持距离到拉近距离的转变经历了很长的时间，以及数代人的讨论。百加得家族的老老少少在上世纪90年代开始回到古巴圣地亚哥，也就是他们家族酿酒生意的发源地，尽管家族和古巴政府因为哈瓦那俱乐部牌(Havana Club)朗姆酒起过激烈的冲突。
Cuban officials seem tolerant, up to a point. Eager to improve their weak economy, they welcome the money but fear its power, said one of the artists supported by the Bacardi Family Foundation who insisted that his name be kept secret to avoid trouble with the authorities. He added that while Cuba’s leaders had become more welcoming — no longer calling exiles “gusanos,” or worms — they were still distrustful, determined to keep Cuban-American influence from becoming an immediate challenge to the state.
古巴官方表现出了一定程度的容忍。一位百加得家族基金会(Bacardi Family Foundation)资助的艺术家说，出于改善其孱弱经济的迫切心情，他们乐于看到钱进来，但是又害怕它的力量，为了避免被当局找麻烦，他坚持在本文中匿名。他还说，古巴领导人正在友好起来——不再称流亡者为“古萨诺”(gusano)，也就是“蠕虫”——但他们的疑心依然很重，会坚决避免古巴裔美国人势力对政权构成直接挑战。
For now, experts say that seems unlikely. The organized money going to Cuba, beyond an estimated $2.6 billion in family remittances, mostly from the United States, remains relatively small. A lot of it is still funneled into the Catholic Church, one of the few institutions allowed to play a role in civil society. The Order of Malta provided 800,000 meals for the elderly in Cuba last year with around $250,000 in donations, mostly from Cuban-Americans in Miami.
专家们说，从目前看可能性不大。有组织进入古巴的资金，包括主要来自美国的约26亿美元（约合160亿元人民币）家庭汇款，数额相对还比较小。这笔钱中相当一部分流入了天主教会，那是少数被允许在公民社会中发挥职能的机构之一。马耳他骑士团(Order of Malta)去年在古巴为老年人提供了80万份膳食，得到了约25万美元的捐款，其中多数捐赠者为迈阿密的古巴裔美国人。
The Cuban police have nonetheless interrogated some of the old women being fed.
然而古巴警方还是审讯了一些领取施舍的老妇人。
Cuba Emprende, the nonprofit organization where Mr. Mestre is on the board, has also struggled to reassure Cuban officials that its founders — a bipartisan mix of exiles long dedicated to engagement and others who only recently embraced the idea — are interested only in acting as an incubator for small businesses, in line with the government’s stated economic policy. The organization’s official tax forms filed recently with the I.R.S. show that the firm has dispersed about $225,000 so far, and that none of it came from the United States government.
梅斯特任董事的非营利机构古巴承诺(Cuba Emprende)也费力地想让古巴官方放心，它的创始人——来自两党，即有致力于该事业多年的流亡者，也有最近刚刚参与进来的人——唯一感兴趣的是成为小型商家的孵化器，他们会遵守政府规定的经济政策。从机构最近向美国国税局(IRS)提交的纳税申报表来看，迄今为止古巴承诺已经散施了约22.5万美元，其中没有任何来自美国政府的资金。
But board members say that Cuban officials continue to suggest that Cuba Emprende must be part of a covert Washington plot. A Cuban instructor in Havana, who asked for anonymity to protect the program, said the pressure had been increasing as Cuba Emprende had grown; as of mid-March, 731 graduates will have completed the 80-hour course, which is run through the Church in an old seminary here and at a rectory in Camaguey.
但董事会成员说，古巴官员仍然在暗示古巴承诺肯定是华盛顿某种阴谋的一部分。哈瓦那的一位古巴讲师说，随着古巴承诺的成长，它受到的压力也在增加，这位讲师出于对课程的保护，要求在本文中匿名。到3月中旬，731名毕业生将完成80小时的课程，这项通过教会来开展的课程是在这里的一座老神学院和卡马圭的一座教区神父寓所里授课的。
Cuban-American lawmakers who continue to support the American embargo also seem displeased with the increased engagement, even though Cuba Emprende and other groups active in Cuba stress that their work does not violate the embargo, falling under humanitarian or other exceptions.
这种越来越频繁的接触，令仍在支持美国对古巴实施贸易禁令的古巴裔美国议员们感到不满，尽管古巴承诺以及其他活跃在古巴的组织都强调，它们的工作没有违反禁令，都是属于人道主义或其他例外项的行动。
Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the Cuban-American Democrat often described by Obama administration officials as Washington’s main impediment to broader changes in Cuba policy, said it was simply ineffective.
谈及对古巴政策进行大范围改革时，奥巴马政府官员经常指称新泽西的古巴裔美国人、民主党参议员罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)是华盛顿面临的最大障碍，而他认为这些行动根本就是无效的。
“I’m not seeing this engagement produce the results they say it would,” he said, adding that “the regime hasn’t become more open” even as Europeans travel and invest in Cuba, unfettered.
他说，“我看不到这种接触产生了任何他们声称会有的效果，”还说即便在欧洲解除了对古巴的旅行和投资限制后，“政权也没有变的开放起来。”
But Mr. Mestre contends that Senator Menendez and the other embargo supporters in Congress are being counterproductive. “With that attitude,” he said, “you’re just hurting the people you’re trying to help.”
但梅斯特认为梅嫩德斯和国会中那些禁令支持者起到的是反作用。“就这个态度，”他说，“你只会伤害到那些你想要帮助的人。”