KAWAGUCHI, Japan — Mahircan Yucel moved to Japan a dozen years ago as a teenager fleeing sectarian violence in Turkey. He learned Japanese, got married, had two children and grew to love his adopted homeland. But Japan has refused to accept him and could force him to leave.
日本川口——十几年前，少年时期的马赫坎·于杰尔(Mahircan Yucel)为了逃离土耳其的宗派暴力冲突搬到了日本。他学习日语，结了婚，有了两个孩子，慢慢爱上了他的第二故乡。但是，日本拒绝接纳他，而且可能会迫使他离开。
“The truth is I have lived in Japan for such a long time,” he said on a recent evening in a small living room that doubles as his infant son’s bedroom. “All I want to do is work and carry out a decent life.”
“实际上我在日本已经生活了这么长时间，”前不久的一个晚上，他在兼做儿子婴儿房的小客厅里说，“我想要的就是工作，过上体面的生活。”
Yucel, 27, is one of about 1,300 ethnic Kurds who have settled in Kawaguchi, an industrial city north of Tokyo, and in the neighboring city of Warabi. They live in a perpetual limbo, seeking protection as refugees in a country that is among the most reluctant in the world to give it.
在东京以北的工业城市川口及附近的蕨市，大约有1300名库尔德人定居，27岁的于杰尔是其中之一。他们始终过着不安定的生活，期望获得难民庇护，而日本是世界上最不愿意提供这种庇护的国家之一。
Though the government has issued temporary permits allowing many to stay for years, no Turkish Kurd has ever been granted refugee status in Japan, which would allow them to settle here permanently. Their plight offers a stark illustration of this insular nation’s approach to refugees as it comes under pressure to admit more amid the world’s worst migration crisis since World War II.
虽然政府发放了临时许可证，允许很多人在这里居留多年，但还没有一名土耳其库尔德人在日本获得难民身份，这种身份将允许他们在这里永久居住。他们的困境鲜明地展现出这个海岛国家对待难民的方式，虽然此刻正值“二战”以来世界上最严重的移民危机之际，该国迫于压力，承诺接纳更多难民。
Japan values ethnic homogeneity and has long guarded fiercely against outsiders. According to a United Nations report, migrants represent less than 2 percent of the total population, compared with 14 percent in the United States. Because of Japan’s shrinking, aging population, many have proposed allowing more immigration to jump-start its stagnant economy. But the government and the public have resisted.
日本强调民族同质性，长期以来强烈抵制外来者。据联合国的一份报告，移民在日本总人口中所占的比例不到2%，而美国的这个比例是14%。由于日本的人口缩减和老龄化，很多人提议接纳更多移民，以提振停滞的经济。不过，政府和民众都表示反对。
At the same time, growing numbers have sought asylum in Japan, and almost all of them have been rejected or told to wait. More than 7,500 people applied for refugee status in 2015, up 52 percent from a year earlier. The government granted asylum to just 27 of them.
与此同时，越来越多的人来日本寻求庇护，但是几乎所有人都遭到拒绝或被告知等待。2015年，7500多人申请难民身份，比前一年增长了52%。政府仅向其中27人提供庇护。
Oxfam, the human rights group, recently cited Japan in a report criticizing the world’s wealthiest countries for accepting so few refugees for resettlement, particularly those from Syria. According to the group’s analysis of each country’s relative wealth, Japan’s “fair share” would be close to 48,000 refugees.
前不久，人权组织乐施会(Oxfam)在一份批评世界上最富有的国家仅接收少量难民（尤其是叙利亚难民）定居的报告中提到了日本。据该组织对每个国家相对财富的分析，日本应该接收的难民的“合理份额”接近4.8万。
In 2010, Japan began to accept refugees who had fled Myanmar to camps in Thailand. But it has taken in only 24 families since then, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This summer, the government also agreed to host up to 150 Syrian refugees as foreign exchange students.
2010年，日本开始接收从缅甸逃到泰国难民营的难民。不过，据日本外务省称，从那时起，该国仅接收了24个家庭。今年夏天，日本政府还同意接收150名叙利亚难民做外国交流生。
In an appearance at the UN General Assembly last September, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the country needed to focus on its economy before considering whether to accept more refugees or immigrants.
去年9月，日本首相安倍晋三在联合国大会上表示，该国在考虑是否接收更多难民或移民前，需要专注于经济发展。
Nearly 14,000 people in Japan are in some stage of an asylum process that usually lasts more than three years and that some critics say is designed to deter new migrants from applying. Asylum seekers may work while they wait for an answer, but those denied refugee status can be given temporary permits that prohibit them from working while giving them no living stipends.
日本有近1.4万人处于庇护程序的某个阶段，这一程序通常会超过三年。有些批评者称，这是故意遏制新的移民申请。寻求庇护者在等待结果期间可以工作，不过那些被拒绝给予难民身份的人只能获得临时许可证，不能工作，也没有生活津贴。
Yasuhiro Hishida, assistant to the director of Japan’s Refugee Status Recognition Office, said officials suspect widespread abuse of the refugee process. Most applicants come from countries that are not currently considered conflict zones, including Nepal, Vietnam and Sri Lanka, he said, suggesting they are economic migrants rather than refugees fleeing persecution.
日本难民身份认可办公室(Refugee Status Recognition Office)的主管助理菱田康弘（Yasuhiro Hishida，音）说，官员们怀疑难民程序遭到普遍滥用。他说，大部分申请者来自目前不被认为是冲突地区的国家，包括尼泊尔、越南和斯里兰卡，这表明他们是经济移民，而非逃离迫害的难民。
Immigrant advocates say the government exaggerates the number of unfounded refugee claims. “In reality, there are so many people who are waiting and are facing a life of danger,” said Shiho Tanaka, spokeswoman for the Japanese Association for Refugees.
移民支持者称，政府夸大了无事实根据的难民申请的数量。“实际上，很多人在等待，面临生命危险，”日本难民支援协会(Japanese Association for Refugees)的发言人田中志穗（Shiho Tanaka）说。
Yucel said he and his family fled Turkey because they were afraid the government would brand them as terrorists and imprison them. Now, watching events in Turkey from afar, including a war between the government and Kurdish militants in the southeast and the recent failed military coup, Yucel says he could never go back.
于杰尔说，他和家人逃离土耳其，是因为担心政府把他们定为恐怖分子并关进监狱。现在，于杰尔从远方关注土耳其发生的事件，包括政府和库尔德武装分子在东南部进行的战争以及前不久的未遂军事政变。他说他永远也不敢回去。
“If you see my country, there is a lot of bullying and people being killed,” he said, growing visibly agitated. “I can’t even speak anymore.”
“如果你去我的祖国，你会看到很多欺压，很多人被杀害，”他越讲情绪越激动。“我都不敢说了。”
Yucel married a Japanese-Brazilian woman with permanent residency, but that does not allow him to work in Japan legally. The authorities detained one of his elder brothers this spring after he overstayed a temporary permit, and Yucel fears he could be next.
于杰尔娶了一名拥有永久居住权的日裔巴西女子，但他还是不能在日本合法工作。今年春天，当局因临时许可证过期拘留了他的一个哥哥，于杰尔担心自己会是下一个。
Kurds first began arriving from Turkey and seeking asylum in Japan in the early 1990s, as the Turkish government battled an insurgency by Kurdish militants. Japan was an easy destination as Turkish citizens do not need visas to travel here. As family and friends followed, they settled around Kawaguchi and Warabi. Local residents named the community “Warabistan.”
从20世纪90年代初，库尔德人开始自土耳其来日本寻求庇护，当时土耳其政府正在镇压库尔德武装分子的叛乱。由于土耳其公民不需要签证就能来日本旅行，所以它很自然地成为目的地。家人和朋友追随而来，他们在川口和蕨市附近定居下来。当地人称这个群体为“蕨斯坦”(Warabistan)。
Over time, some married Japanese citizens, which conferred long-term visa rights, and some opened their own businesses. There are a few Kurdish-owned restaurants in Kawaguchi, and many of the immigrants work at Kurdish-owned demolition and construction firms.
随着时间推移，一些人和日本公民结婚，因此获得长期签证权，有些人开设了自己的公司。川口有几家库尔德人开的餐馆，很多移民在库尔德人的拆建公司工作。
But most Kurds here, like Yucel, are stuck on temporary permits that need to be renewed every six months. Those without permission to work cobble together off-the-books jobs, which puts them at risk of being detained for months or deported.
但是这里的大部分库尔德人和于杰尔一样，受困于每六个月必须续签的临时许可证。那些没有获得工作许可的人非法打工，若是抓到有可能遭到数月拘留或驱逐。
“I want the Japanese government to understand that real refugees are in trouble,” said Eyyup Kurt, 29, a Kurdish journalist who applied for asylum 18 months ago. He said he had been arrested five times in Turkey and had been shot at by a member of the Islamic State while investigating a training site.
“我想让日本政府明白，真正的难民处于困境之中，”29岁的库尔德记者伊阿普·库尔特(Eyyup Kurt)说。他18个月前申请了庇护。他说，他在土耳其5次遭到逮捕，在调查一个训练基地时遭到伊斯兰国(Islamic State)一名成员的枪击。
Some Japanese remain wary. City officials in Kawaguchi say they receive complaints about late-night gatherings and garbage in Kurdish neighborhoods. Young Kurdish men tend to congregate outside a convenience store near the train station in Warabi, and merchants say they frighten some customers.
有些日本人依然有些担心。川口市的市政官员们说，他们收到过一些投诉，称库尔德社区深夜有聚会，有很多垃圾。年轻的库尔德男人喜欢在蕨市火车站附近的一个便利店外聚集，店主们说，他们令一些顾客害怕。
“Sometimes I see that they get into fights, and the police have to come,” said Hiroe Hokiyama, 21, a college junior. “It is a little bit scary.”
“有时我看到他们打架，警察都来了，”21岁的大三学生甫喜山广江（Hiroe Hokiyama，音）说，“有点吓人。”
Others are more welcoming. Shori Nishizawa, 57, the owner of an appliance store a few blocks from Happy Kebab, a Kurdish-owned restaurant here, said he often watched young Kurdish mothers walking with their children on the street in front of his store.
也有些人更欢迎他们。57岁的西泽胜利（Shori Nishizawa，音）是一家电器行的老板。在他店铺的几个街区外，有一家库尔德人开的快乐烤串店(Happy Kebab)。他说，他经常看见年轻的库尔德母亲带着孩子从他店铺前的街上走过。
“Japan is such a peaceful country,” Nishizawa said. “We should not think about countries, but about the world. We are all citizens of the world, right?”
“日本是一个爱好和平的国家，”西泽胜利说。“我们不应该想着国家，而应该想着世界。我们都是世界公民，对吧？”