Apple introduced new iPhones on Wednesday and will follow a week later by releasing iOS 9, its next mobile operating system. That may bring back some bad memories for consumers who felt chagrined by the last iOS rollout.
周三，苹果发布了新款iPhone，接下来还会在一周之后发布下一版移动操作系统iOS 9。对于上一版iOS推出时感到失望的消费者来说，这可能会带来一些不快的回忆。
Last fall, when Apple released iOS 8, the previous version of the operating system, iPhone owners reported some major bugs, including one that sometimes disabled cellphone service and another that made the smartphone’s fingerprint sensor stop working.
去年秋天，苹果发布该操作系统的上一版本iOS 8时，iPhone用户报告了一些严重的问题，其中包括移动电话服务有时会被禁用，以及这款智能手机的指纹识别功能停止工作。
This time around, the rollout should be smoother. Apple let the public test drive and provide feedback on early versions of iOS 9 — similar to what Microsoft did with its latest version of Windows — which should reduce the odds for nasty bugs to show up on day one.
这一次，新版本的推出应该更平稳一些。苹果允许用户试用早期版本的iOS 9并给出反馈，这与微软(Microsoft)对最新版本的Windows操作系统采取的做法相似。这样做可以降低发布第一天就曝出糟糕漏洞的机会。
I tested preview versions of iOS 9 for two months on multiple Apple devices, and while I found a few minor bugs, there were no significant issues. To help you acclimate to iOS 9, we have included some of the new items in the operating system that stood out as the most important: better battery life, improvements to the voice assistant Siri and big changes for iPads.
我在好几台苹果设备上用了两个月测试iOS 9的预览版，虽然我发现了一些小bug，但并没有很大的问题。为了让读者适应iOS 9，我们在这里介绍一下这款操作系统中最重要的一些新特性，比如电池寿命、语音助理Siri的功能改进，以及iPad的大改动。
BATTERY POWER The persistently annoying issue with all mobile products is the battery. Even if all you do is check email regularly and send text messages, you would be lucky to have more than 20 percent battery remaining on your device by the evening.
电量：所有移动产品长久以来都有一个令人恼火的问题，那就是电池。即使你做的只是不时查收电子邮件和发送消息，到傍晚时设备剩余电量还能超过20%，都算是幸运。
With iOS 9, Apple is taking multiple steps toward improving battery life. For one, if you put the iPhone facedown on a table, the phone will know not to light up with notifications because its sensors know that it isn’t faceup. For another, Apple says it revised apps across the operating system to make them run more efficiently and consume less power. And Apple added what it calls a low-power mode, which can be activated to turn off battery-hogging activities like animated wallpapers and motion effects.
在iOS 9里，苹果为了提升电池使用时间，采取了多种举措。比如，如果你把手机屏幕朝下放在桌面上，手机就明白，有通知时不亮屏，因为它的传感器知道屏幕不是朝上的。另一项举措是，苹果修改了该操作系统中的各种app，好让它们运行时更有效率，耗电更少。苹果还添加了一种所谓的低耗电模式，启用这个模式之后，动画壁纸和动态效果等耗电的活动就会关闭。
For all this, Apple says consumers should get an extra hour of battery life with iOS 9’s under-the-hood improvements and three hours of extra juice with low-power mode on. In my experience testing the preview system on a new iPad Air 2 and a two-year-old iPad Mini, I didn’t experience noticeable leaps in battery performance, but an Apple spokeswoman said to reserve battery testing for the full release of the system. Stay tuned for a full set of tests.
通过这些手段，苹果表示，iOS 9通过改进底层应用程序可以让用户的电池寿命延长一小时，如果开启低耗电模式，则能延长三个小时。以我在一台新的iPad Air 2和一台使用两年的iPad Mini上测试预览系统的经验来看，并没有感受到电池性能有什么可以觉察的大幅提升。不过苹果公司一名女发言人表示，电池测试结果要在系统全面发布时才会公布。所以请耐心等待全面测试的数据。
OVERHAULED NEWS APP With iOS 9, Apple has done away with Newsstand, a folder containing apps for reading news, and replaced it with the News app. The app works like Apple’s Music app by creating lists of recommendations for articles you might like to read based on your preferences.
新闻应用大变脸：在iOS 9里，苹果取消了“报刊杂志”(Newsstand)，这个文件夹里包含了用来阅读新闻的应用，并用“新闻”(News)应用取而代之。后者的运行方式像苹果的音乐app，根据你的偏好为你创建可能想读的推荐文章列表。
When you first open the News app, you are invited to add some of your favorite publications or topics you like to read, like Bon Appétit magazine or general articles on politics or food. It reformats articles into a magazinelike layout, emphasizing photos over text.
首次打开新闻app时，软件会邀请你添加一些最喜欢的出版物或者最想读到的话题，如《Bon Appétit》杂志，或关于政治或美食的普通文章。它会将文章版式调整成杂志一样的布局，更突出图片而不是文字。
SMARTER SIRI When Apple introduced Siri, a virtual assistant that understood voice commands, four years ago, tech reviewers (including me) showered the feature with praise. But soon after consumers got their hands on new iPhones with Siri, many reported that the virtual assistant was unreliable and that its ability to communicate was limited.
Siri更聪明了：苹果在四年前推出虚拟语音助理Siri时，科技评论人士（包括我）都对这一功能赞不绝口。然而消费者拿到带有Siri功能的iPhone后不久，许多人就提出，这个虚拟助理并不可靠，它的沟通能力也很有限。
Apple has fixed the latter complaint by expanding Siri’s capabilities significantly in iOS 9, though it is unclear whether the virtual assistant will survive the torrent of new requests it will inevitably receive. The assistant is, in short, better at understanding you, using the context of your data. It is also more tightly integrated into the system’s search tool.
苹果针对后一种抱怨做出了修正，在iOS 9中大幅扩展了Siri的功能。不过，这款虚拟助理不可避免地会收到大量的新请求，不清楚它能不能经受得住。简而言之，Siri参考你的数据，更善于理解你说的话了。它与系统搜索工具的集成度也提高了。
Here is an example of a new Siri trick: You can search for photos on your device based on the date and location of the photo or the album name, saying, “Show me photos taken in Barcelona last spring,” or “Show me photos taken at Danny’s birthday.”
举例来说，用Siri可以做到这样一个新功能：你可以根据照片的时间、位置或相册名称来搜索设备上的照片。比如，可以说“显示去年春天在巴塞罗那拍的照片”，或者“显示丹尼的生日那天拍的照片”。
Siri is also now directly integrated into the search bar. Swiping to the left of the home screen brings you to the search bar. The same commands you would say to Siri can also be typed into the search bar to bring up the same results. What’s more, the search system studies your patterns to make recommendations for apps you open most frequently or actions that you perform.
Siri现在也直接与搜索栏集成了起来。向左滑动主屏幕就能打开搜索栏，你想对Siri说出怎样的指令，就可以把同样的指令输入到搜索栏里，得到同样的结果。此外，搜索系统还会研究你的操作习惯，根据你启动最频繁的应用，或者最常用的操作给出建议。
MULTITASKING FOR IPADS The customers who will be most affected by iOS 9 will be those who own iPads, especially the latest high-end models. Apple added iPad features to the operating system that make the tablet act more like a traditional computer.
iPad的多任务处理：受iOS 9影响最大的消费者是那些拥有iPad，尤其是最新的高端型号的用户。苹果在操作系统中给iPad添加了一些功能，可以让这款平板电脑更像传统的电脑一样运作。
A major modification to the behavior of the iPad is the ability to run two apps side by side; before, a single app took up the entire screen. If you’re browsing the web with the Safari app, for example, you can swipe toward the left from the right side of the screen to choose from a list of other apps; the second app takes up a portion of the right side of the screen.
iPad操作方式的一个重大调整是，可以同时并排运行两个app，在此之前，一个app要占满整个屏幕。例如，在用Safari浏览网页时，可以从屏幕右侧向左滑动，并从一系列其他app中选择一个，第二个app会在屏幕右端占据一部分空间。
Also new is the ability to run another app while watching a video. Tapping a button inside a video shrinks it and moves it to a corner. The video can then be moved to any corner of the screen.
另一个新功能是在看视频时运行另一个app。在视频中按一个按钮，画面就会缩小，移到一边。视频可以放在屏幕的任何一个角落。
Not every iPad will get these features. Only the iPad Air 2, the more powerful and more expensive 9.7-inch model, can support using two apps at the same time for now. Users of less powerful iPads (the second- and third-generation iPad Mini tablets and the older iPad Air) can view two apps at the same time but interact with only one at a time. As for watching video while using another app, that can be done with all the aforementioned iPads, but not anything older.
并不是每一台iPad都能得到这些功能。目前只有iPad Air 2，也就是性能较强、比较贵的9.7英寸的型号，才支持同时使用两个app。性能没那么强的iPad（比如第二代和第三代iPad Mini，以及型号更旧的iPad Air）可以同时查看两个app，但一次只能与其中一个进行互动。至于在使用其他app时看视频，上述所有型号的iPad都能做到，但再老的型号就不行了。
BOTTOM LINE Should you update to iOS 9?
总之：该不该升级iOS 9呢？
The rule of thumb for upgrading to a new operating system is to wait a little while for early annoying bugs to be stamped out, then upgrade when the system is more refined. Also, always create a backup of the data on your device before upgrading in case things go awry.
升级新操作系统的大体原则是，过一阵子，等最早出现的恼人bug解决之后，再升级成修正过的版本。此外，升级之前一定要备份设备上的数据，以免出岔子。
Based on my testing, I think it’s safe for consumers with newer Apple devices, like iPhones and iPads released in the last two years, to get the iOS 9 update in the next few months. For customers with Apple devices that are at least three years old, it is still unclear whether iOS 9 will improve performance, so wait a little longer to see what the early adopters report.
根据我的测试，如果你拥有的苹果产品比较新，比如最近两年推出的iPhone和iPad，那么未来几个月里升级iOS 9就是安全的。对于手上的苹果设备至少用了三年的用户，iOS 9是否能改善性能这一点尚不清晰，所以最好再等等，看较早升级的人会怎么说。