HADO-RI, South Korea — On a recent morning, as she has for 60 years, Kim Eun-sil carried her diving gear to a rocky beach on the eastern side of this island to spend the day free-diving in water more than 20 feet deep to harvest seafood by hand.
韩国下道里——不久前的一天早晨，金恩悉（Kim Eun-sil，音译）像过去60年来一样，把自己的潜水装备带到这座岛东侧的一片石滩上，准备一整天都在超过20英尺（约6米）深的水域里潜水捕捉海产品。
Ms. Kim, 80, figures she can work a few more years at a job women here have done for centuries but which now is fast disappearing.
金恩悉现年80岁，觉得自己可以再多工作几年。这里的女性从事这项工作已经有几百年的历史，但是现在这个职业正在迅速消失。
“I can still manage under the sea,” she said, warming her arthritic body at a fire she built with fruit boxes on a pier while waiting for other women. “My husband had it easy, hardly lifting a finger. Until he died four years ago, he had no complaints against me.”
她在一个火堆旁边说，“我还能下海干活。”她患有关节炎，在等待其他妇女到来的时候，用水果箱在码头生起了火堆取暖。“我丈夫过得很轻松，几乎从来不帮忙。他四年前去世了，一辈子对我从无抱怨。”
Ms. Kim, like her mother before her, is a haenyeo, or “sea woman.” For ages, the sea women of Jeju, an island off the southern coast of South Korea, have braved the treacherous waters of the Korea Strait, even during the frigid winters. Using only flippers and goggles — no breathing equipment — they scour the sea bottom for abalone, conch and octopus.
跟她母亲以前一样，金恩悉也是一名“海女”(haenyeo)。在韩国南部海岸附近的小岛济州岛，很早以前，海女们就开始勇敢面对朝鲜海峡诡谲的水域，即使是在寒冬腊月。只靠着脚蹼和护目镜——没有呼吸设备——她们潜到海底，捕捉鲍鱼、海螺和章鱼。
They are, by tradition, women, nicknamed the Amazons of Asia in a custom that has as much to do with the island’s sad history as its geography.
传统上，这些潜水者都是女性，她们被称为“亚洲的亚马逊女战士”(Amazons of Asia)，所遵循的风俗跟这座岛的地理位置有关，也跟它的悲伤历史有同样多的关系。
The reversal of traditional gender roles, with women being the chief breadwinners, made the island an outlier in Korea’s patriarchal society.
与传统的性别角色完全相反，妇女成了家庭的主要收入来源，这座海岛也因此成为了韩国父权社会中的一个异类。
But the work is hard and dangerous. Since 2009, 40 divers have died, including three this year. Younger women on Jeju, now South Korea’s biggest tourist destination, would rather work in resort hotels and car rental offices than plunge into the cold sea, as some of their mothers and grandmothers still do.
然而这项工作辛苦而危险。自2009年以来，已经有40名海女死亡，其中包括今年的3名。济州现在是韩国最大的旅游目的地，这里的年轻女性更愿意在度假酒店和汽车租赁处工作，而不是潜入冰冷的海水里，虽然她们的母亲和祖母中仍然有部分人在做这项工作。
The number of sea women has dwindled to about 4,500, from 26,000 in the 1960s, with 84 percent of them 60 or older.
海女的人数已经从20世纪60年代的2.6万人减少到了目前的约4500人，其中60岁以上的海女约占84%。
“Most of the haenyeo will be gone in 20 years unless we have new recruits,” said Yang Hi-bum, a Jeju government official.
“未来20年里大多数海女都会去世，除非能招募到新人，”济州政府官员杨熙凡（Yang Hi-bum，音译）说。
For as long as Koreans can remember, sea women have been as emblematic of Jeju as snow-capped Mount Halla at its center. They duck under water more than 100 times a day, grabbing sea creatures barehanded or sometimes with a spear. Resurfacing a minute later, making a plaintive whistle as they exhale, they deposit their catch into a net sack tied to a float.
在韩国人久远的记忆中，海女一直都是济州岛的象征，如同韩国中部积雪覆盖的汉拿山一样。她们每天潜入水中100多次，空手捕捉海洋生物，有时也会用矛。一分钟后，她们浮上水面，呼出体内气体时会吹出凄婉的哨声，然后她们会把捕获到的猎物装进一个绑在浮标上的袋子里。
“Haenyeo were Korea’s first working moms,” said Koh Mi, an editor at the Jeju newspaper Jemin Ilbo and a participant in a nine-year research project on the sea women. “They were a symbol of female independence and strength in Korea.”
“海女是韩国最早的工作母亲，”济州报纸《济民日报》(Jemin Ilbo)的编辑高媚（Koh Mi，音译）说。“在韩国，她们是女性独立和力量的象征。”高媚参与了一项为期九年的海女研究项目。
So there is much hand-wringing over how to preserve their culture in the face of changes that have turned Jeju from the “island of sea women” into an island of honeymooners in a matter of decades.
在几十年的时间里，济州岛已经从“海女孤岛”变成了蜜月之岛。面对着这样的转变，许多人对于如何保护海女文化，感到忧心忡忡。
This month, South Korea applied to Unesco to add the sea women to its Intangible Cultural Heritage list. Islanders believe the designation would infuse pride in the tradition, and encourage popular support for preserving it.
本月，韩国向联合国教科文组织(Unesco)申请把海女添加到其非物质文化遗产(Intangible Cultural Heritage)名录中。济州岛的居民相信，列入非物质文化遗产名录，会给海女传统注入自豪感，也能鼓舞民众保护传统的热情。
Today, the 714-square-mile island is as famous for its citrus orchards as for its pearly beaches, golf courses and esplanades overlooking black cliffs where lava met the sea ages ago. But until farm machinery enabled families to cultivate Jeju’s notoriously rocky soil and tourism gave the island more job opportunities in recent decades, Jeju was among the toughest places to live in South Korea, an outpost where trees were stunted from sea winds and where kings exiled their enemies.
如今，这座方圆714平方英里的岛屿不仅以柑橘园闻名，也以珍珠滩、高尔夫球场和俯瞰黑色悬崖（很久之前，熔岩与海水的相遇形成了这些悬崖）的滨海大道为世人所知；但是直到最近几十年，农业机械的普及才使农户可以在济州以多石著称的土壤里种植作物，旅游业的发展也给这里带来了更多的就业机会。在那之前，济州一直是韩国最贫苦的地方之一，海风让这里的树木难以正常生长，古时国王会把敌人流放到这个偏远岛屿。
By the 17th century, as men went to sea to fish or row warships and never returned, diving become exclusively women’s work, said Kang Kwon-yong, curator of the government-run Haenyeo Museum. An 18th-century document recorded that officials flogged the women, and even their parents or husbands, when they failed to pay steep taxes in dried abalone, a prized delicacy among Korea’s elite, forcing women to dive in cold water even when pregnant.
17世纪，由于男人们出海捕鱼或划着战船出征再也没有回来，潜水就成为了完全由女性承担的工作，康权庸（Kang Kwon-yong，音译）说，他是政府开办的海女博物馆的馆长。一份18世纪的文献记载：如果海女无法用干鲍鱼支付苛捐杂税，官员就会鞭打她们，甚至还会鞭打她们的父母或丈夫，迫使她们潜入冷水，即便她们怀有身孕。鲍鱼是韩国达官贵人喜爱的珍馐佳肴。
The work has always been perilous. The women work long hours in icy water as deep as 40 feet. Old haenyeo ballads speak of “diving with a coffin on the head” or “toiling in the netherworld so our family can live in this one.” The divers pray to sea goddesses for protection, regularly offering them rice, fruit and imitation paper money.
这项工作历来都很危险。女性长时间在深达40英尺的冰冷海水中工作，流传已久的海女民谣唱到，“头顶棺材潜入水”，“在冥府中辛苦劳作，只为让家人在苦难的人间生活。”海女们祈求海神的庇护，定期向海神供奉大米、水果和纸钱。
As late as the early 1960s, 21 percent of the island’s women were professional divers, their bounty accounting for 60 percent of Jeju’s fisheries revenue. While brides in other parts of South Korea were expected to provide a dowry, on Jeju the men paid a bride price.
迟至上世纪60年代初，岛上的女性还有21%是职业海女，她们贡献了济州渔业收入的60%。在韩国其他地区，新娘嫁人要准备嫁妆，而在济州，男人娶妻要支付彩礼。
“Diving was the lifeline for the entire family,” said Ku Young-bae, 63, one of 270 sea women from Hado-ri, a cluster of villages on Jeju’s eastern shore, before swimming into the waves recently. “Men are lazy,” she said. “They can’t dive. They are weak under the sea, where it’s really life or death.”
“海女的收入曾经是整个家庭的生命​​线。”今年63岁的丘颖裴（Ku Young-bae，音译）近日在下海之前说。她是济州岛东海岸一个名为下道里的村落群中的270名海女之一。“男人很懒惰，”她说。“他们不能潜水。水下是事关生死的地方，男人在水下软弱无力。”
Until recently, sea women from Jeju also worked along the coasts of mainland South Korea.
直到不久之前，济州海女还会前往韩国大陆的沿海地区作业。
“We children waited for our mothers to return home from their mainland trips,” said Lim Baek-yeon, 53, head of the Hado-ri sea women’s cooperative. “It meant new clothes and new shoes.”
“我们小孩子会等着母亲从大陆回来，”下道里海女合作社53岁的负责人林百燕（Lim Baek-yeon，音译）说，“这意味着我们会得到新衣服、新鞋子。”
The divers adhere to a strict hierarchy. Young divers stay clear of the shallow waters where the older and weaker women dive. When the village school needs repairs, they donate a portion of the proceeds of their catch.
这些海女严守层级，年轻的海女会避开年长和较虚弱的海女潜水的浅海。当村里的学校需要修缮时，她们会捐出打捞所得的部分收入。
Their economic independence contributed to Jeju’s divorce rates, the highest in South Korea. But despite their essential role, the divers were held in low esteem by a society that frowned on women traveling outside their villages and revealing bare skin. Until full-body wet suits became available in the 1970s, they wore homemade cotton suits that showed the thigh and often shoulders.
济州岛的离婚率是韩国最高的，海女在经济上的独立是诱因之一。尽管她们发挥着至关重要的作用，但在一个不满女性外出、暴露体肤的社会里，这些潜水者并不太受人尊重。直到上世纪70年代，她们才能买到全身式潜水衣，在那之前，她们穿的都是自制的棉质衣物，这种衣服会露出大腿，也会时常露出双肩。
“Jeju children did not like to admit that their mother was a haenyeo,” said Lee Sun-hwa, a female member of the Jeju Provincial Council, whose mother and grandmother were sea women. “The women always elected their men as chiefs of their villages.”
“济州岛的小孩不愿承认自己的母亲是海女，”母亲和祖母都是海女的济州道议会(Jeju Provincial Council)女议员李宣和(Lee Sun-hwa)说，“女人总是会选她们的丈夫担任村里的村长。”
The sea women have partly been victims of their own hard work. The introduction of wet suits encouraged them to dive deeper and for longer hours, resulting in overharvesting and declining incomes and health. The seaside shelters where they gather before entering the water are strewn with empty bottles of painkillers and anti-seasickness drugs.
在一定程度上，海女努力工作也会伤害到她们自己。潜水服的问世促使她们潜得更深，潜水时间更长，结果导致过度打捞，收入和健康状况也每况愈下。在下水前，她们会聚集在海边的简易房屋里，那些屋子里扔满了止痛药和防晕船药的空瓶子。
To help keep the tradition alive, the Jeju government pays for their wet suits and subsidizes their medical and accident insurance. Their government-financed shelters are now equipped with heated floors and hot-water showers.
为了帮助保留这一传统，济州岛政府给她们购买了潜水服，还资助她们购买医疗和意外保险。现在，由政府资助的简易房屋里均配有地热地板和热水淋浴。
The sea women have also regulated themselves — imposing voluntary no-harvest seasons, no-diving zones and monthly limits on the number of diving days — to sustain the profession.
这些海女为了维系这一职业也进行了自我管理，规定了自愿休渔季节、非潜水区和每月潜水天数的限制。
But Ms. Kim, who raised five children and paid her husband’s college tuition by diving, says she will be the last haenyeo in her family.
但通过潜水捞海产抚养了五个孩子，并且供丈夫上了大学的金恩悉说，她将是家里的最后一个海女。
“My only daughter doesn’t even know how to swim,” she said.
“我的独生女连游泳都不会，”她说。