HONG KONG — New pockets of economic weakness in China emerged on Tuesday, as the collapse of a highly indebted real estate developer and weak home sales pointed to a slowdown in the sprawling property sector.
香港——本周二，中国经济的另一个领域显现出颓势：一家债台高筑的房地产开发商倒闭，再加上楼市销售疲软，表明该国庞大的房地产行业增速减缓。
The latest batch of difficulties add to the continuing debate over China’s commitment to economic reforms. While Beijing is pushing through initiatives to reform its economy, the worry is that the country’s slowing economy will prompt it to reverse course.
最新出现的这些困难，给中国是否会恪守其经济改革承诺的持续辩论增添了新的素材。虽然北京正在推进经济改革举措，但令人担忧的是，经济增长的放缓可能会导致它改弦易辙。
The nation’s growth has decelerated to its slowest pace in more than a decade. The default of the developer, the Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate Investment Company, is likely to heighten the concerns that growth will remain sluggish, at least by China’s standards.
中国的增速已放缓至十多年来的最慢水平。前文所述开发商是浙江的兴润置业，它的违约可能会加剧人们对中国经济增长仍将持续疲软——至少以中国标准而言——的担忧。
The vast real estate market, which has accounted for a significant portion of the gross domestic product, is an essential piece of the economic puzzle. And recent data has prompted concerns about the health of China’s housing market. In the latest example, growth in new-home sales in several of its biggest cities slowed last month from January, data released on Tuesday by the National Bureau of Statistics showed.
庞大的房地产市场已经在中国的国内生产总值中占据相当大的比例，而且也是该国经济难题的重要一环。但最近的数据引起了人们对中国房地产市场健康状况的担忧。最新的一个例子是，中国统计局本周二公布的数据显示，上月一线城市的新住房销售增幅较1月所有放缓。
As the property market comes under pressure, real estate developers are feeling the pinch, especially those with huge debt.
随着楼市遭受压力，房地产开发商也感到资金吃紧，特别是那些背负着巨额债务的公司。
Xingrun, a small developer in the coastal city of Ningbo, was unable to repay more than 3.5 billion renminbi ($566 million) in debt, according to reports in Chinese state-run news media on Tuesday. While it is not unheard-of for Chinese property developers to default on loans or to face bankruptcy, the size of Xingrun’s debt load is particularly notable.
兴润是中国沿海城市宁波的一家小开发商，中国官方新闻媒体本周二报道，它无力偿付逾35亿元人民币的债务。虽然中国房地产开发商拖欠贷款或面临破产的情况并非前所未闻，但兴润的债务规模格外值得注意。
The failure of the developer also comes two weeks after China’s 8.5 trillion renminbi domestic bond market experienced its first default in recent history. The Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company, a maker of solar cells and panels, defaulted after not making an annual interest payment of 89.8 million renminbi on a bond of one billion renminbi.
兴润倒闭两个星期之前，中国8.5万亿人民币的国内债券市场才刚刚经历了近年来第一次违约事件：太阳能电池和电池板制造商上海超日无力兑付10亿元人民币债券的年利息8980万元人民币。
Beijing indicated last week that more defaults were inevitable, although the government would aim to contain the damage.
北京上周表示，更多的违约不可避免，尽管政府将会努力控制它们带来的危害。
Xingrun had been in financial difficulty for months after having accumulated debt that included bank loans from 19 institutions. China Construction Bank, Shanghai Pudong Development Bank and Agricultural Bank of China were the company’s biggest creditors, according to multiple reports in Chinese news media.
债台高筑的兴润陷入财务危机已有数月，其债务包括来自19家机构的银行贷款。中国新闻媒体的多篇报道显示，中国建设银行、上海浦东发展银行和中国农业银行是该公司最大的债权人。
“Xingrun is not the first developer to default, and for sure it won’t be the last,” said Bei Fu, a director of corporate ratings at Standard & Poor’s who focuses on the real estate sector. “We expect to see a wave of such small developers running into problems this year, both from a financing and operational perspective.”
“兴润不是第一家违约的开发商，肯定也不会是最后一家，”标准普尔(Standard & Poor)专注于房地产行业的董事符蓓说。“我们预计今年会有一小波这样的小开发商遇到问题，无论是从资金还是运营的角度来说。”
Law enforcement officials in the city of Fenghua, which is part of Ningbo, have detained Xingrun’s legal representative and its controlling shareholder, a father and son, on suspicion of illegal fund-raising activities, the state-run China News Service reported on its website on Friday. In addition to the bank loans and other debt, local officials found the developer had tapped China’s ubiquitous, but illegal, informal lending networks, raising about 700 million renminbi from 98 individuals, according to the report.
官方媒体中国新闻社上周五在其网站上报道称，在宁波下属城市奉化，执法人员已经以涉嫌非法集资为名拘留了兴润的法定代表人及控股股东，他们是父子两人。该报道称，除了银行贷款及其他债务，地方官员还发现，兴润卷入中国普遍存在但却非法的民间借贷网络，非法吸收公众存款7亿多元，涉及98人。
Phone calls to Xingrun’s offices went unanswered on Tuesday. A person who answered the phone at the Fenghua government’s information center said he had no information on the case.
本周二，兴润办公室无人接听电话。奉化政府信息中心接听电话的人说，他不了解有关此案的任何信息。
Chinese property developers are being challenged by a tighter liquidity environment. Banks and other sources of debt financing, like trust companies, are growing cautious as the risk increases that borrowers will be unable to repay loans and interest.
中国房地产开发商将面临流动性环境收紧的挑战。银行和信托公司等债务融资来源正在变得更加谨慎，因为借款人无力偿还贷款及利息的可能性在增加。
At the same time, home prices have been increasing at a slower pace in recent months. The figures released on Tuesday, covering the property markets in the 70 biggest mainland cities, showed that the average price of a newly built home in Beijing rose 0.2 percent in February from January. That compares with an increase of 0.4 percent in January from December. In Shanghai, new-home prices rose 0.4 percent in February, down from a 0.5 percent increase a month earlier.
与此同时，住房价格的上涨步伐最近几个月来变得缓慢。本周二公布的涵盖70个内地大城市的房地产市场数字显示，1月北京新建成的住房平均价格较2月上涨了0.2%。而1月比去年12月上涨了0.4%。上海的这两个数字分别为0.4%和0.5%。
Any slowdown in China’s property market can affect the broader economy, from rattling the balance sheets of the banking system to curbing growth in household consumption. Some analysts have expressed concerns that given the building boom in recent years, China’s residential property market might eventually find itself dealing with significant oversupply.
中国房地产市场出现的任何放缓都会影响整体经济，从冲击银行系统的资产负债表到遏制家庭消费的增长，它会给中国经济的诸多方面带来影响。有分析人士担忧，鉴于近年来的建设热潮，中国的住宅市场可能最终会出现严重的供过于求。
Zhiwei Zhang, the chief China economist at Nomura, described real estate as “a pillar of growth for China” that makes up 16 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, accounts for 26 percent of new loans and contributes 39 percent of government revenue, based on 2013 data.
野村证券(Nomura)研究中国经济的首席经济师张智威说，房地产是“中国增长的一个支柱”，2013年的数据显示，它构成了中国GDP的16%，占新增贷款的26%，贡献了政府财政收入的39%。
“The local government debt problem and the shadow banking issue have caught investors’ attention, but alone they are unlikely to cause a systemic crisis in 2014, as the government can bail out troubled trust products and roll over debt,” Mr. Zhang said.
“地方政府债务问题和影子银行问题已经引起了投资者的关注，但仅凭它们不太可能在2014年形成系统性危机，因为政府可以救助陷入困境的信托产品，对债务进行展期，”张智威说。
“If property investment slows sharply, policy easing may not be effective, as fundamentally the sector faces a structural oversupply problem.”
“如果房地产投资大幅放缓，政策宽松可能就无效了，因为从根本上说，这个行业面临着结构性供过于求的问题。”