We take as our text today the parable of the prodigal sons. As I hope you know, the story is about a father with two sons. The younger son took his share of the inheritance early and blew it on prostitutes and riotous living. When the money was gone, he returned home.
今天，我们以浪子回头的这个寓言故事来作为讨论的主题。希望你们知道，这是一个关于一个父亲和两个儿子的故事。小儿子早早就取走了属于自己的那一份财产，并将其挥霍在嫖妓和放纵的生活上。钱财散尽后，他回来了。
His father ran out and embraced him. The delighted father offered the boy his finest robe and threw a feast in his honor. The older son, the responsible one, was appalled. He stood outside the feast, crying in effect, “Look! All these years I’ve been working hard and obeying you faithfully, and you never gave me special treatment such as this!”
他父亲跑出去拥抱他。喜出望外的父亲把自己最好的长袍给了小儿子，还大摆筵席庆祝他回来。这令尽职尽责的大儿子倍感震惊。他站在筵席外哭了起来，“你自己看看！这些年来我一直辛苦劳作，什么都听你的，但你对我却从未有过这样的特殊待遇！”
The father responded, “You are always with me, and everything I have is yours.” But he had to celebrate the younger one’s return. The boy was lost and now is found.
父亲回答说，“你一直都和我在一起，我所有的一切都是你的。”但他必须庆祝小儿子的回归。这是他失而复得的一个孩子。
Did the father do the right thing? Is the father the right model for authority today?
这个父亲做的对吗？这个父亲是如今的权力机关应该学习的典范吗？
The father’s critics say he was unjust. People who play by the rules should see the rewards. Those who abandon the community, live according to their own reckless desires should not get to come back and automatically reap the bounty of others’ hard work. If you reward the younger brother, you signal that self-indulgence pays, while hard work gets slighted.
批评这个父亲的人认为他不公平。遵守规则的人应该得到相应的回报。那些抛弃社会、无所顾忌地按照自己意愿生活的人不该就这么轻易地回来，然后顺理成章地享受其他人辛勤劳动的成果。如果奖赏小儿子，那就意味着自我放纵也有好处可得，而辛勤工作却会被无视。
The father’s example is especially pernicious now, the critics continue. Jesus preached it at the time of the Pharisees, in an overly rigid and rule-bound society. In those circumstances, a story of radical forgiveness was a useful antidote to the prevailing legalism.
这些批评人士接着表示，这个父亲的例子在眼下特别有害。耶稣布道讲这个故事时是法利赛人(Pharisees)的时代，当时的社会过于苛刻，且过于受规矩所限。这种情况下，一个大度宽恕的事例是对盛行的墨守成规思想的有效对抗。
But we don’t live in that kind of society. We live in a society in which moral standards are already fuzzy, in which people are already encouraged to do their own thing. We live in a society with advanced social decay — with teens dropping out of high school, financiers plundering companies and kids being raised without fathers. The father’s example in the parable reinforces loose self-indulgence at a time when we need more rule-following, more social discipline and more accountability, not less.
但我们现在并不是生活在那种社会里。在我们生活的社会，道德标准已经变得模糊，人们已经受到很大鼓励可以各行其志。我们生活的这个社会里存在着高度的衰落现象——亲少年从中学退学、金融家劫掠企业、孩子在单亲家庭中长大。在我们需要更严格地遵守规则，需要更多的社会规范和责任之际，寓言中这个父亲的例子却支持了散漫的自我放纵。
It’s a valid critique, but I’d defend the father’s example, and, informed by a reading of Timothy Keller’s outstanding book “The Prodigal God,” I’d even apply the father’s wisdom to social policy-making today.
这样的批评是有根据的，但我却要为这个父亲的所作所为辩护。而且，在读了蒂莫西·凯勒(Timothy Keller)的大作《慷慨的上帝》(The Prodigal God)后，我甚至还要把这个父亲的智慧用到当今的社会决策上。
We live in a divided society in which many of us in the middle- and upper-middle classes are like the older brother and many of the people who drop out of school, commit crimes and abandon their children are like the younger brother. In many cases, we have a governing class of elder brothers legislating programs on behalf of the younger brothers. The great danger in this situation is that we in the elder brother class will end up self-righteously lecturing the poor: “You need to be more like us: graduate from school, practice a little sexual discipline, work harder.”
我们生活在一个分裂的社会里，我们上层和中上层阶级中的许多人就像故事中的哥哥，而许多退学、犯罪和抛弃孩子的人就像那个弟弟。在很多情况下，像哥哥那样的人构成了统治阶级，代表像弟弟那样的人，通过立法制定各种计划。这种情况非常危险的一点是，身处哥哥阶层的我们最终会自以为是地对穷人进行说教：“你必须更向我们靠拢：完成学业、在性方面表现出些许规范、更努力工作。”
But the father in this parable exposes the truth that people in the elder brother class are stained, too. The elder brother is self-righteous, smug, cold and shrewd. The elder brother wasn’t really working to honor his father; he was working for material reward and out of a fear-based moralism. The father reminds us of the old truth that the line between good and evil doesn’t run between people or classes; it runs straight through every human heart.
但这个寓言故事中的父亲揭露了一个真相，即哥哥阶层的人也并非毫无瑕疵。他们自以为是、自命不凡、冷漠、精明。故事中的哥哥辛勤劳动并非真的是为了让父亲感到荣耀，而是为了获得物质上的回报，其出发点是一种基于恐惧的道德主义。这个父亲让我们想起了一个历久弥新的真理。那就是，善恶不以人或阶级区分，每个人都有善恶两重性。
The father also understands that the younger brothers of the world will not be reformed and re-bound if they feel they are being lectured to by unpleasant people who consider themselves models of rectitude. Imagine if the older brother had gone out to greet the prodigal son instead of the father, giving him some patronizing lecture. Do we think the younger son would have reformed his life to become a productive member of the community? No. He would have gotten back up and found some bad-boy counterculture he could join to reassert his dignity.
这个父亲也理解，对世界上像弟弟这样的人而言，如果觉得自己在被令人生厌且自视为正直典范的人说教，他们是不会洗心革面，重新接受约束的。想象一下，如果故事中出去迎接浪子的是哥哥，而不是父亲，他还对这个浪荡子弟弟进行了一番居高临下的说教，结果会怎样。我们觉得弟弟会改过自新，成为社会中有贡献的一员吗？他不会的。他可能会走回老路，找到某种能接纳自己的坏孩子反正统文化，来重拾自己的尊严。
The father teaches that rebinding and reordering society requires an aggressive assertion: You are accepted; you are accepted. It requires mutual confession and then a mutual turning toward some common project. Why does the father organize a feast? Because a feast is nominally about food, but, in Jewish life, it is really about membership. It reasserts your embedded role in the community project.
这个父亲教会我们，重新约束和重新调整社会秩序需要大力认可：你被接受了；你被接受了。这需要相互坦诚，然后双方一起瞄准某个共同的任务。那个父亲为什么要筹备筵席？因为表面上筵席和食物有关，但在犹太人的生活中，筵席还真的和成员身份有关。筵席重新肯定了一个人在相关的团体活动中的角色。
The father’s lesson for us is that if you live in a society that is coming apart on class lines, the best remedies are oblique. They are projects that bring the elder and younger brothers together for some third goal: national service projects, infrastructure-building, strengthening a company or a congregation.
这个父亲给我们的教训是，如果你生活的社会正在以阶级为界线而分裂，最好的解决办法都是一些迂回的做法。它们就是那些能让哥哥和弟弟团结起来，朝着第三个目标努力的项目：全国性的服务项目、基础设施建设、增强企业或宗教团体实力。
The father offers each boy a precious gift. The younger son gets to dedicate himself to work and self-discipline. The older son gets to surpass the cold calculus of utility and ambition, and experience the warming embrace of solidarity and companionship.
父亲给了两个孩子每人一件宝贵的礼物。弟弟会努力工作和自律。而哥哥则会摆脱冷漠的功利算计和野心，感受团结和友谊温暖的拥抱。