The kingdom of Saudi Arabia donated more than $10 million. Through a foundation, so did the son-in-law of a former Ukrainian president whose government was widely criticized for corruption and the murder of journalists. A Lebanese-Nigerian developer with vast business interests contributed as much as $5 million.
沙特阿拉伯王国捐了逾1000万美元。一位前乌克兰总统的女婿也通过一个基金会捐了款，但这位总统领导的政府因腐败和杀害新闻工作者而广受指责。一名拥有广泛商业利益的黎巴嫩裔尼日利亚开发商的捐款最高可能达到500万美元（约合3300万元人民币）。
For years the Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton Foundation thrived largely on the generosity of foreign donors and individuals who gave hundreds of millions of dollars to the global charity. But now, as Mrs. Clinton seeks the White House, the funding of the sprawling philanthropy has become an Achilles’ heel for her campaign and, if she is victorious, potentially her administration as well.
多年来，“比尔、希拉里和切尔西·克林顿基金会”(Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation)的繁荣发展主要依靠外国捐赠者，以及向这个跨国慈善机构捐赠数亿美元的个人的慷慨。但现在，随着克林顿寻求入主白宫，这个庞大的慈善机构的资金成了她竞选——如果她获胜，可能还会成为她领导的政府——的“阿喀琉斯之踵” 。
With Mrs. Clinton facing accusations of favoritism toward Clinton Foundation donors during her time as secretary of state, former President Bill Clinton told foundation employees on Thursday that the organization would no longer accept foreign or corporate donations should Mrs. Clinton win in November.
面对克林顿被指在担任国务卿期间偏袒基金会的捐赠人的情况，前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)周四对其员工表示，如果克林顿在11月胜出，该基金会将不再接受外国和企业的捐赠。
But while the move could avoid the awkwardness of Mr. Clinton jetting around the world asking for money while his wife is president, it did not resolve a more pressing question: how her administration would handle longtime donors seeking help from the United States, or whose interests might conflict with the country’s own.
尽管此举可能会让比尔·克林顿在妻子担任总统期间在世界各地寻求资助这种尴尬情形得以避免，但它并未解决一个更紧迫的问题：她领导的政府将如何对待那些向美国求助，或可能与美国存在利益冲突的长期捐赠者。
The Clinton Foundation has accepted tens of millions of dollars from countries that the State Department — before, during and after Mrs. Clinton’s time as secretary — criticized for their records on sex discrimination and other human-rights issues. The countries include Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Oman, Brunei and Algeria.
在克林顿担任国务卿之前和之后，以及她任职期间，其基金会接受的捐款中，数千万美元来自因性别歧视和其他人权问题前科而受到国务院抨击的国家。它们包括沙特阿拉伯、阿拉伯联合酋长国、卡塔尔、科威特、阿曼、文莱和阿尔及利亚。
Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, said the Clintons and the foundation had always been careful about donors. “The policies that governed the foundation’s activities during Hillary Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state already went far beyond legal requirements,” he said in a statement, “and yet the foundation submitted to even more rigorous standards when Clinton declared her candidacy for president, and is pledging to go even further if she wins.”
克林顿竞选活动的发言人布赖恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)表示，克林顿一家和克林顿基金会一直对捐赠人持谨慎态度。“在希拉里·克林顿担任国务卿期间，约束基金会活动的原则就已经远远超过了法律规定的要求，”他在一份声明中说。“但当克林顿宣布竞选总统时，基金会所遵循的规范变得更加严格，如果她获胜，基金会承诺将更进一步。”
Clinton’s opponent, Donald J. Trump, could face his own complications if he becomes president, with investments abroad and hundreds of millions of dollars in real estate debt — financial positions that could be affected by moves he makes in the White House. And on Friday, Paul Manafort resigned as chairman of the Trump campaign, in part because of reports about his lucrative consulting work on behalf of pro-Russian Ukrainian politicians.
如果当上总统，克林顿的对手唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)可能也会面临自己的难题。他在海外有投资，还有数亿美元的房地产债务。他的财务状况可能会受到他在白宫采取的举措的影响。此外，保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)周五辞任特朗普竞选团队的主席。这在一定程度上因为有报道称他代表亲俄罗斯的乌克兰政客进行了一些获利丰厚的咨询工作。
Still, Mr. Trump has seized on emails released over the past several weeks from Mrs. Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state, in which a handful of donors are mentioned. He has attacked her over an email chain that showed Douglas J. Band, an adviser to Mr. Clinton, seeking to arrange a meeting between a senior American government official and Gilbert Chagoury, a Lebanese-Nigerian real estate developer who donated between $1 million and $5 million. Mr. Chagoury explained through a spokesman that he had simply wanted to provide insights on elections in Lebanon.
但特朗普依然抓住了过去几周爆出的克林顿担任国务卿期间的一些电子邮件。它们提到了几名捐赠者。特朗普凭借一个电子邮件串攻击克林顿。该电邮串显示，比尔·克林顿的顾问道格拉斯·J·班德(Douglas J. Band)试图安排美国的一名政府高官和捐款金额在100万到500万美元之间的黎巴嫩裔尼日利亚房地产开发商吉尔伯特·沙古里(Gilbert Chagoury)见面。沙古里通过发言人解释说，他只是想谈谈自己对黎巴嫩选举的认识。
Some emails and other records described donors seeking and in some cases obtaining meetings with State Department officials. None showed Mrs. Clinton making decisions in favor of any contributors, but her allies fear that additional emails might come out and provide more fodder for Mr. Trump.
部分电子邮件和其他一些记录显示，一些捐赠者希望与国务院的官员见面，且其中一些人如愿以偿。尽管没有一封电子邮件显示克林顿做出了有利于任何捐赠者的决定，但她的盟友担心，可能还会出现更多电子邮件，给特朗普留下更多口实。
Craig Minassian, a spokesman for the foundation, said the decision to forgo corporate and foreign money had nothing to do with the emails. The foundation will continue to raise money from American individuals and charities.
克林顿基金会的发言人克雷格·米纳西安(Craig Minassian)表示，放弃企业和外国捐款的决定和相关电子邮件无关。该基金会将继续通过美国的个人和慈善机构筹集资金。
“The only factor is that we remove the perception problems, if she wins the presidency,” he said, “and make sure that programs can continue in some form for people who are being helped.”
“唯一的因素是如果她赢得总统职位，我们会消除那些人们在感觉上存在的问题，并确保相关项目能继续以某种方式帮助目前的受助者。”
Minassian said ending foreign fund-raising before other sources of money could be found, and without knowing who will win the election, could needlessly gut programs that help provide, for instance, H.I.V. medication to children in Africa.
米纳西安表示，在没有找到其他资金来源、不知道最终谁会当选的情况下停止海外资金募集，可能会给一些项目带来毫无必要的破坏，比如为非洲的儿童提供艾滋病药物的项目。
Begun in 1997, the foundation has raised roughly $2 billion and is overseen by a board that includes Mr. Clinton and the couple’s daughter, Chelsea. Mrs. Clinton joined when she left the State Department and stepped down in 2015 before beginning her campaign. Its work covers 180 countries, helping fund more than 3,500 projects.
克林顿基金成立于1997年，迄今共筹集了约20亿美元资金，由包括比尔·克林顿及他们的女儿切尔西在内的董事会监管。希拉里·克林顿是在2015年结束国务卿任期后、还没开启这次总统竞选前加入基金会的。该机构的工作覆盖180个国家，帮助超过3500个项目筹集了资金。
Having a former president at the helm proved particularly productive, with foreign leaders and business people opening their doors — and their wallets — to the preternaturally sociable Mr. Clinton.
结果证明，有一位前总统掌舵是非常有成效的，外国领导人和商界人士会向极其擅长社交的比尔·克林顿打开大门，同时也打开他们的钱包。
Among the charity’s accomplishments: Its Clinton Health Access Initiative — which is run by Ira C. Magaziner, who was a White House aide involved in Mrs. Clinton’s failed effort to overhaul the health care system in her husband’s first term — renegotiated the cost of H.I.V. drugs to make them accessible to 11.5 million people. The foundation helped bring healthier meals to more than 31,000 schools in the United States, and it has helped 105,000 farmers in East Africa increase their yields, according to the foundation’s tally.
基金会在慈善领域的成就包括：由伊拉·C·马加齐纳(Ira C. Magaziner)负责运营的克林顿健康倡议项目(Clinton Health Access Initiative)。此人之前担任过白宫幕僚，曾参与希拉里·克林顿在丈夫第一任期内进行的那场以失败告终的医疗保健系统改革。这个倡议项目重新商议了艾滋病药物的价格，以便让1150万人负担得起。据基金会统计，它帮助美国超过3.1万座学校获得了更健康的膳食，还帮助东非10.5万农民提高了农作物产量。
In December 2008, shortly before Mrs. Clinton became secretary of state, Mr. Clinton released a list of more than 200,000 donors to defuse speculation about conflicts.
2008年12月，就在希拉里·克林顿当上美国国务卿前不久，比尔·克林顿公布了一个超过20万人的捐献人名单，以打消外界有关存在利益冲突的猜测。
Soon after, Mrs. Clinton agreed to keep foundation matters separate from official business, including a pledge to “not participate personally and substantially in any particular matter that has a direct and predictable effect upon” the foundation without a waiver. The Obama White House had particularly disliked the gatherings of world leaders, academics and business people, called the Clinton Global Initiative, that the foundation was holding overseas. The foundation limited the conferences to domestic locations while Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state. On Thursday, Mr. Clinton said the gathering in September in New York would be the foundation’s last.
不久，希拉里·克林顿同意将基金会事务与公务分开，包括承诺不经允许“不再亲自实质性参与任何对基金会有直接影响或预计会产生影响的事务”。奥巴马政府尤其不喜欢该基金会在海外组织的克林顿全球倡议组织(Clinton Global Initiative)年会，这是一个世界领导人、学界和商界领袖的聚会。在希拉里·克林顿担任国务卿期间，基金会将大会举办地局限在了美国国内。上周四，比尔·克林顿又表示，今年9月计划在纽约举行的克林顿全球倡议组织年会将是基金会举办的最后一届。
One of the attendees at these conferences speaks to the stickiness of some donor relationships.
基金会和某些捐赠人之间的关系令人起疑，该年会的一位嘉宾很能说明这一点。
Victor Pinchuk, a steel magnate whose father-in-law, Leonid Kuchma, was president of Ukraine from 1994 to 2005, has directed between $10 million and $25 million to the foundation. He has lent his private plane to the Clintons and traveled to Los Angeles in 2011 to attend Mr. Clinton’s star-studded 65th birthday celebration.
钢铁大亨维克多·平丘克(Victor Pinchuk)曾向该基金会捐赠1000至2500万美元的资金。他的岳父列昂尼德·库奇马(Leonid Kuchma)在1994-2005年间担任过乌克兰总统。平丘克曾把自己的私人飞机借给克林顿夫妇使用，还在2011年前往洛杉矶参加了众星云集的比尔·克林顿65岁生日会。
Even if Mr. Clinton steps down, there could be remaining complications about a potential president’s name being affixed to an international foundation. And Chelsea Clinton, who is its vice chairwoman, would continue her leadership role.
就算比尔·克林顿退出基金会，一个有望成为总统的名字与一家国际基金会扯上关系，也依然是十分棘手的。基金会的副主席切尔西·克林顿将继续担任领导角色。
“It is very difficult to see how the organization called the Clinton Foundation can continue to exist during a Clinton presidency without that posing all sorts of consequences,” said John Wonderlich, the interim executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, a government watchdog group in Washington. “What they announced only addresses the most egregious potential conflicts.”
“很难想象，在克林顿担任总统期间，这个名叫克林顿基金的组织何以能够继续存在，而又不引发种种后果，”华盛顿的政府监察团体阳光基金会(Sunlight Foundation)的临时执行主任约翰·旺德利希(John Wonderlich)说。“他们宣布的举措所针对的只是最惊人的潜在冲突。”
Considering the scale and scope of the foundation, Mr. Wonderlich said it was easy to “name a hundred different types of conflicts.”
旺德利希说，鉴于该基金会的规模和工作范围，很容易就能“说出一百种不同类型的冲突”。
The reality is, he added, “there are no recusals when you are president.”
他还说，现实情况是，“当你成为总统，就没有什么利益冲突回避可言了”。