HONG KONG — Scientists plan to release detailed information on Wednesday about a mysterious noise, possibly that of an ocean impact, recorded by two undersea receivers in the Indian Ocean about the time that Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 ceased satellite transmissions and vanished on March 8.
香港——科学家们计划本周三发布一个神秘声响的详细信息：它可能是某种物体撞击海洋造成的，位于印度洋的两个海底接收机记录到了这个声响，时间是3月8日马航370航班终止卫星通讯，失去联系的时候。
The low-frequency noise, which was outside the normal range of hearing and had to be sped up to be made audible, appeared to have traveled halfway across the Indian Ocean to the receivers off the coast of Australia.
这个低频声响不在正常的听力范围之内，要听到就必须将之调快，它似乎横穿了半个印度洋，到达了澳大利亚海岸外的接收器处。
“It’s not very exciting. It’s not even really a thump sort of a sound — it’s more of a dull oomph,” said Alec Duncan, a senior marine science research fellow at Curtin University near Perth, who has led the research.
“它并不是非常令人兴奋。甚至算不上真正的撞击声——更像是一声闷响，”领导这项研究的亚历克·邓肯(Alec Duncan)说。他是珀斯附近科廷大学(Curtin University)的高级海洋科学研究员。
“If you ask me what’s the probability this is related to the flight, without the satellite data it’s 25 or 30 percent, but that’s certainly worth taking a very close look at,” Dr. Duncan said.
“如果你问我，这和370航班有关系的可能性是多大，我会说，没有卫星数据支持，可能性是25%或30%，但是这确实也值得我们非常认真地调查一番，”邓肯博士说。
The general vicinity from which the noise emanated is a large area of the central Indian Ocean off the southern tip of India and about 3,000 miles northwest of Australia. But that is not consistent with calculations of an arc of possible locations in the southeastern Indian Ocean where the plane, carrying 239 people, might have run out of fuel. Those calculations were from Inmarsat, the global satellite communications company, and scientists have struggled to figure out the origin of the noise.
声响来源的大致范围，是印度南端以外、离澳大利亚西北部约3000英里的一大片印度洋中心海域。但是，这和全球卫星通信公司国际海事卫星组织(Inmarsat)计算的370航班可能下落并不一致，而且科学家们要找到这个声响的真正源头也并不容易。根据国际海事卫星组织的计算，这架载有239人飞机可能因为耗尽燃料，终结在印度洋东南部的一条弧线范围上。
A very small section of the arc that was searched by a deep-sea submersible this spring, without success, was about 600 miles, or about 1,000 kilometers, off the Australian coast.
今年春天，在距离澳大利亚海岸大约600英里（约合1000公里）处，搜索人员用深海潜水器被搜查了这条弧线中非常小的一部分，但没有找到飞机残骸。
Even without the Inmarsat data, there are other possible explanations for the noise besides an aircraft impact, Dr. Duncan said. One would be a very small undersea earthquake that would produce a similar noise audible across great distances but not strong enough to show up on the nearest seismometers on land, which did not record a tremor at the time.
就算和国际海事卫星组织的数据吻合，这个声响除了飞机撞击海洋之外，也可能是其他原因造成的，邓肯博士说。比如，一次非常轻微的海底地震就可以形成类似的声响，在水中传播到很远的地方仍可听到，但却不足以被陆​​地上最近的地震仪侦测到。陆上地震仪当时确实也没有记录到任何震颤。
The direction from which the noise arrived does produce some small earthquakes every year, although there had not been one in the days preceding Flight 370’s disappearance, Dr. Duncan added.
在声响传来的方向，的确每年都会有一些小地震，虽然在370航班失踪前一段日子没有小地震发生，邓肯博士说。
Two receivers — one operated by Dr. Duncan’s team and the other by the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization in Vienna — produced enough data to establish the direction from which the noise arrived. But the distance to the source of the noise was less clear. The result, according to Dr. Duncan, is a “box” of ocean several hundred kilometers wide but a couple of thousand kilometers long, Dr. Duncan said.
这两个接收器——一个由邓肯博士的研究小组操作，另一个则属于维也纳的全面禁止核试验条约组织(Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization)——获得了足够多的数据，可以确定声响从哪个方向传来。但声响来源和接收器之间的距离就不太清楚了。因此，来源范围只能划定为一个几百公里宽，但几千公里长的海域“箱子”，邓肯博士说。
That would be an area roughly the size of Texas.
这个范围和德克萨斯州的大小差不多。
Mark Prior, an acoustics expert at the test ban organization headquarters, said that the sound might be consistent with an ocean impact or with some kind of a sealed, air-filled container that sank into the depths until the exterior water pressure caused it to crumple.
马克·普瑞尔(Mark Prior)是全面禁止核试验条约组织的总部的一位声学专家，他说，这个声响可能是物体撞击海洋造成的，或者是某种密封的充气容器沉入深海，外部水压力导致其碎裂时发出的声音。
Mr. Prior said that the sound might have been reflected off a seamount, or underwater mountain, before traveling to the two receivers, so the origin of the noise could have been somewhere else.
普瑞尔说，这个声响在到达两个接收器之前，可能受到了水下山脉的反射，所以声响的真正源头可能是在其他地方。
The Australian government has funded the research at Curtin University, and additional experts in Canberra, the country’s capital, have also collaborated. The Australian authorities have been skeptical so far about ordering a new search thousands of miles away based on the noise.
澳大利亚政府资助了科廷大学进行的这个研究，该国首都堪培拉的其他专家也有参与合作。对于根据这个声响，对数千英里以外的海域进行新的搜索，澳大利亚当局迄今一直持怀疑态度。
Martin Dolan, the chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, said last week that search operations would continue to focus on the narrow arc defined by the Inmarsat calculations.
澳大利亚交通安全局局长马丁·多兰(Martin Dolan)上周表示，搜索行动将继续聚焦在国际海事卫星组织计算的狭窄弧线上。
Dr. Duncan and his team operate an undersea device off the coast of Perth that is mainly used to monitor the low-frequency cries of blue whales, the world’s largest mammals and one of its most endangered species. The team’s receiver, or hydrophone, records noises on an undersea data device, which is hauled up to the ocean surface every six months and its contents downloaded.
邓肯博士团队的那个海底设备放置在珀斯海岸外，主要用于监控蓝鲸发出的低频叫声。蓝鲸是世界上最大的哺乳动物，也是最濒危的物种之一。这种接收器也称为水听器，它用海底数据设备录下声音，该团队每隔半年就把它拉到水面上，下载里面的内容。
The team sailed out for an extra visit to pull up the recorder and recover the data after the search for Flight 370 shifted to the Indian Ocean. The noise was faint but detectable, prompting Dr. Duncan to request and obtain the test ban treaty organization’s data for March 8 from its receiver off Cape Leeuwin, 220 miles to the south.
370航班的搜索工作转移到印度洋后，该团队特地出海拉起记录器，下载了里面的数据。这个声响很微弱，但可以检测到，邓肯博士发现它后，便向全面禁止核试验条约组织申请3月8日的更多数据，因为后者在220英里以南的露纹角也放置了一个接收器。该组织提供了这些数据。
The staff did not initially detect any noise, Mr. Prior said, because it was using a high threshold for confirming a noise, based on its experience with underwater explosions. It checked the records of its other operating hydrophone in the Indian Ocean, near Diego Garcia, but the noise was not detected there. Its undersea receivers continuously relay data by cable to shore, where it is uploaded by satellite to Vienna.
工作人员最初没有检测到任何声响，普瑞尔说，因为他们用来确认声响的门槛比较高，是根据该组织的水下爆破经验来设置的。他们还检查了印度洋靠近迪戈加西亚的另一个水听器的记录，但没有检测到声响。该组织使用线缆，把水下接收器的数据持续不断传送到岸边，然后通过卫星传输到维也纳。
Noises travel through water at a speed of 1.5 kilometers per second, or almost a mile per second. That is five times faster than they travel through the air, and there is less attenuation of the sound over very long distances through water as well.
声音在水中的传播速度是每秒1.5公里，相当于每秒1英里，比声音在空气中的传播速度快五倍，而且在水中长距离传播时，声音的衰减也比较小。
Mr. Prior and Dr. Duncan said in separate telephone interviews that the time it took for the noise to reach the receivers was consistent with the last partial electronic “handshake” between the missing Boeing 777-200 and the Inmarsat satellite, plus the time it would have taken for the sound to have traveled several thousand miles to the hydrophones.
普瑞尔和邓肯博士在各自的电话采访中说，这个声响传到接收器的时间，减去它途经几千英里达到接收器所需的时间，跟那架失踪的波音777-200与国际海事卫星组织的卫星之间最后一次不完整的电子“握手”的时间相吻合。