The little white shack at the water’s edge in Lower Manhattan is unobtrusive — so much so that the tourists strolling the promenade at Battery Park the other day did not give it a second glance.
在曼哈顿下城区，水边那间白色小屋如此不起眼，以至于几天前在炮台公园散步的游客都没多看它一眼。
Up close, though, the roof of the shed behind a Coast Guard building bristled with antennas and other gear. Though not much bigger than a closet, this facility is helping scientists confront one of the great environmental mysteries of the age.
但走近了看，位于海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)一栋大楼背后的小屋屋顶上树着天线和其他一些装置。虽然比衣橱大不了多少，但这间小屋正在帮助科学家观察这个时代的环境科学大谜团之一。
The equipment inside is linked to probes in the water that keep track of the ebb and flow of the tides in New York Harbor, its readings beamed up to a satellite every six minutes.
小屋里的设备连着水里的探测器，那些探测器追踪着纽约港的潮水涨落情况。它们的读数每六分钟便会向卫星发送一次。
While the gear today is of the latest type, some kind of tide gauge has been operating at the Battery since the 1850s, by a government office originally founded by Thomas Jefferson. That long data record has become invaluable to scientists grappling with this question: How much has the ocean already risen, and how much more will it go up?
尽管现在的这些设备都是最先进的，但有一种检潮仪却是从19世纪50年代开始便在炮台公园，一直运行到现在。负责设备运行的是一个政府机构，该机构最初是由托马斯·杰斐逊(Thomas Jefferson)设立的。对那些正在努力研究海平面已上升了多少且还将上升多少这个问题的科学家而言，这么长的数据记录非常宝贵。
Scientists have spent decades examining all the factors that can influence the rise of the seas, and their research is finally leading to answers. And the more the scientists learn, the more they perceive an enormous risk for the United States.
科学家们用了几十年时间来研究所有会影响海平面上升的因素，现在，他们的研究终于要得出结论了。这些科学家了解得越多，就越能感觉到美国正面临着一个巨大的危险。
The official stance of the world’s climate scientists is that the global sea level could rise as much as three feet by the end of this century, if emissions continue at a rapid pace. But some scientific evidence supports even higher numbers, five feet and beyond in the worst case.
全球气候科学家的官方立场是，如果排放物继续快速增加，到本世纪末，全球海平面可能最高会上升三英尺（约合0.9米）。但一些科学证据表明，这个数字甚至会更高，在最糟糕的情况下可能会达到五英尺或以上。
Scientists say the East Coast will be hit harder for many reasons, but among the most important is that even as the seawater rises, the land in this part of the world is sinking. And that goes back to the last ice age, which peaked some 20,000 years ago.
一些科学家称，因为诸多原因，东海岸受到的影响会更大，但最重要的是，就在海平面在上升时，这片地方的陆地却正在下沉。而这要追溯到上一个冰河时期，它的鼎盛时期出现在大约2万年前。
As a massive ice sheet, more than a mile thick, grew over what are now Canada and the northern reaches of the United States, the weight of it depressed the crust of the earth. Areas away from the ice sheet bulged upward in response, as though somebody had stepped on one edge of a balloon, causing the other side to pop up. Now that the ice sheet has melted, the ground that was directly beneath it is rising, and the peripheral bulge is falling.
那时，在现在的加拿大和美国北部地区覆盖着一个厚度超过1英里（约合1.6公里）的巨型冰盖。随着冰盖的扩展，它的重量迫使地壳下沉。相应的，远离冰盖的地区往上凸起，就像有人踩着气球的一端，导致另一端鼓起来一样。如今，那个冰盖已经融化了，原来直接被冰盖覆盖着的那片地区正在上升，而周围凸起的地方则正在下沉。
Some degree of sinking is going on all the way from southern Maine to northern Florida, and it manifests itself as an apparent rising of the sea.
从缅因州南部到佛罗里达州北部，一直都存在某种程度的下陷，而这种下陷表现出来的，则似乎是海平面在上升。
The sinking is fastest in the Chesapeake Bay region. Whole island communities that contained hundreds of residents in the 19th century have already disappeared. Holland Island, where the population peaked at nearly 400 people around 1910, had stores, a school, a baseball team and scores of homes. But as the water rose and the island eroded, the community had to be abandoned.
切萨皮克湾(Chesapeake Bay)地区是下沉速度最快的。在19世纪，岛上的各个社区共容纳了数百名居民，但现在，那些社区都已消失不见了。1910年前后，霍兰德岛(Holland Island)的人口达到巅峰水平，有近400人，岛上有商店、学校、棒球队和几十处住宅。但随着水面上升，小岛被侵蚀，这个居民区不得不被遗弃。
Eventually just a single, sturdy Victorian house, built in 1888, stood on a remaining spit of land, seeming at high tide to rise from the waters of the bay itself. A few years ago, a Washington Post reporter, David A. Fahrenthold, chronicled its collapse.
到最后，只剩下唯一一处坚固的维多利亚风格房屋屹立在存留下来的一小块土地上，在涨潮时像是矗立水中一般。几年前，《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)的记者戴维·A·法伦特霍尔德(David A. Fahrenthold)详细记录了那处房屋的倒塌。
Aside from this general sinking of land up and down the East Coast, some places sit on soft sediments that tend to compress over time, so the localized land subsidence can be even worse than the regional trend. Much of the New Jersey coast is like that. The sea-level record from the Battery has been particularly valuable in sorting out this factor, because the tide gauge there is attached to bedrock and the record is thus immune to sediment compression.
除了东海岸一带陆地的普遍沉降以外，随着时间流逝，处于松软沉积物上的一些地方也很可能会逐渐下沉，所以局部的地面沉降很可能会比地区趋势更糟。新泽西州的许多沿海地区就是如此。在找出这个因素方面，炮台公园所提供的海平面记录尤其有价值，因为那里的检潮仪安装在基岩上，所以相关记录可以免受沉积物沉降的影响。
Perhaps the weirdest factor of all pertains to Norfolk, Va., and points nearby. What is now the Tidewater region of Virginia was slammed by a meteor about 35 million years ago — a collision so violent it may have killed nearly everything on the East Coast and sent tsunami waves crashing against the Blue Ridge Mountains. The meteor impact disturbed and weakened the sediments across a 50-mile zone. Norfolk is at the edge of that zone, and some scientists think the ancient cataclysm may be one reason it is sinking especially fast, though others doubt it is much of a factor.
或许最奇怪的因素与弗吉尼亚州的诺福克以及附近的几个地点有关。弗吉尼亚州现在的低洼海岸大约在3500万年前受到了一颗流星撞击——撞击的力度非常大，它或许导致了东海岸所有生物的死亡，并引发海啸的巨浪冲向了蓝岭山脉。流星的撞击扰乱了方圆50英里地区的沉积物的分布，降低了沉积物的强度。诺福克就位于这个地区的边缘地带，有些科学家认为这场远古时期的灾难或许就是这里下沉速度尤其快的原因之一，虽然其他科学家不确定这是一个重大原因。
Coastal flooding has already become such a severe problem that Norfolk is spending millions to raise streets and improve drainage. Truly protecting the city could cost as much as $1 billion, money that Norfolk officials say they do not have. Norfolk’s mayor, Paul Fraim, made headlines a couple of years ago by acknowledging that some areas might eventually have to be abandoned.
海岸被淹已经成了诺福克的一个严重问题，为了抬高街道和改善排水，诺福克投入的资金数以百万美元计。而真正为这座城市提供保护将需要高达10亿美元（约合60.4亿人民币）的资金，诺福克官员表示他们没有这么多钱。数年前，诺福克市长保罗·弗赖姆(Paul Fraim)因为承认最后可能必须要抛弃某些地方而登上了头条。
Up and down the Eastern Seaboard, municipal planners want to know: How bad are things going to get, and how fast?
东海岸周边的市政规划者都想知道：事情会变得多么糟糕，以及会以怎样的速度变糟？
One of the most ambitious attempts to take account of all known factors came just a few weeks ago from Kenneth G. Miller and Robert E. Kopp of Rutgers University, and a handful of their colleagues. Their calculations, centered on New Jersey, suggest this is not just some problem of the distant future.
仅仅几周前，罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的肯尼思·G·米勒(Kenneth G. Miller)和罗伯特·E·科普(Robert E. Kopp)与他们的几个同事对所有已知因素进行了考虑，这是目前最具雄心的尝试。他们以新泽西为中心的计算结果表明，这个问题不只与遥远的未来有关。
People considering whether to buy or rebuild at the storm-damaged Jersey Shore, for instance, could be looking at nearly a foot of sea-level rise by the time they would pay off a 30-year mortgage, according to the Rutgers projections. That would make coastal flooding and further property damage considerably more likely than in the past.
例如，根据罗格斯的预测，考虑在被暴风雨摧毁的泽西海岸(Jersey Shore)买房或重建房屋的人应该知道，当他们还完30年期的贷款之后，海平面可能已经上升了将近1英尺（约合0.3米）。于是与过去相比，这里会更容易发生海岸洪灾，并带来进一步的财产损失。
Even if the global sea level rises only eight more inches by 2050, a moderate forecast, the Rutgers group foresees relative increases of 14 inches at bedrock locations like the Battery, and 15 inches along the New Jersey coastal plain, where the sediments are compressing. By 2100, they calculate, a global ocean rise of 28 inches would produce increases of 36 inches at the Battery and 39 inches on the coastal plain.
据罗格斯预测，即使到2050年，全球海平面只上升8英寸（保守估计），在炮台公园这样的基岩地区，海平面会相对上升14英寸，新泽西沿岸平原的海平面则会因为沉积物沉降而上升15英寸。他们估计，到2100年，如果全球海平面上升28英寸，炮台公园的海平面就将上升36英寸，沿岸平原则为39英寸。
These numbers are profoundly threatening, and among the American public, the impulse toward denial is still strong. But in towns like Norfolk — where neighborhoods are already flooding repeatedly even in the absence of storms, and where some homes have become unsaleable — people are starting to pay attention.
这些数据颇为惊人，但是美国公众仍极不愿意承认这一点。然而，在诺福克等城镇——即便在没有风暴的情况下，这里的居民已多次经历洪灾，而且这里的有些住房根本卖不掉——人们已经开始关注这个问题。
“In the last couple or three years, there’s really been a change,” said William A. Stiles Jr., head of Wetlands Watch, a Norfolk environmental group. “What you get now is people saying, ‘I’m tired of driving through salt water on my way to work, and I need some solutions.’ ”
“过去两三年真的有所改变，”诺福克环保组织湿地观察(Wetlands Watch)的负责人小威廉·A·斯泰尔斯(William A. Stiles Jr.)说。“你现在可以听到人们说，‘我不想再在开车上班的路上淌盐水了，我需要一些解决方案。’”