LONDON — NEARLY one in four people on earth live in the countries that border the Bay of Bengal. The region is strategically vital to Asia’s rising powers. Its low-lying littoral — including coastal regions of eastern India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia and Sumatra — is home to over half a billion people who are now acutely vulnerable to rising sea levels. Storms are a constant threat; over the weekend, a cyclone, Phailin, swept in from the bay to strike the coastal Indian state of Odisha, leading to the evacuation of some 800,000 people.
伦敦——地球上近四分之一的人口生活在孟加拉湾周边的国家。对正在崛起的亚洲国家而言，该地区具有至关重要的战略意义。在其地势低洼的海岸线上——包括印度东部的沿海地区、孟加拉国、斯里兰卡、缅甸、泰国、马来西亚和苏门答腊岛——生活着5亿多人，现在他们正处在海平面上升的严重威胁之下。暴风雨始终是该地区的一大隐患。就在周末，来自孟加拉湾的旋风“蓝宝石”(Phailin)席卷印度沿海的奥里萨邦，导致约80万人被疏散。
The bay was once a maritime highway between India and China, and then was shaped by monsoons and migration as European powers exploited the region for its coffee, tea and rubber. Today the bay is being reshaped again by the forces of population growth and climate change.
孟加拉湾曾是印度和中国之间的海上要道，后来伴随着欧洲列强前来榨取咖啡、茶叶和橡胶资源，这里的发展受到季风和移民的左右。如今，人口增长和气候变化带来的影响正再次重塑孟加拉湾。
The scale and pace of these challenges demand urgent, regional cooperation. But first the countries that ring the bay must rise above their political fault lines and embrace the interconnectedness of their history.
这些挑战的规模和速度需要用紧急的、地区性的合作来应对。但首先，环孟加拉湾的国家必须克服各自政治上的严重分歧，接受它们在历史上彼此相联的事实。
The Bay of Bengal’s coasts are under assault in every dimension: by water conflicts in the Himalayas and by drilling for oil and gas in the deep sea. The bay is a sink of pollution borne by the great rivers that spill into it, including the Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the Salween. Dam construction in China and India threatens downstream communities in India, Bangladesh and mainland Southeast Asia. With sea level rising and deltaic lands subsiding, saltwater intrusion onto farmlands has accelerated, with serious consequences for food production.
从喜马拉雅山脉的水资源冲突到深海的石油和天然气钻探，孟加拉湾沿岸的每一个层面都在遭受攻击。孟加拉湾承载了汇入这里的大江大河携带的污染，包括恒河、雅鲁藏布江和萨尔温江。中国和印度境内的大坝建设威胁到了下游印度地区、孟加拉国和中南半岛的民众。在海平面上升、三角洲地区沉陷之时，海水浸入农田的速度已经加剧，为粮食生产带来了严重后果。
The bay’s turbulent climate has played an outsize role in the region’s history. Sailors crossed its waters from the earliest times; their trading routes linked India, China and Southeast Asia for centuries. The bay’s natural bounty attracted the European powers in the early modern era, making it an arena for imperial competition and economic vitality. But the monsoons and their rainfall have always been volatile: periodic droughts and dangerous storms have posed a recurrent threat and shaped the region.
在该地区的历史上，孟加拉湾那变幻莫测的气候起了极大的作用。从很久远的古代起就已经有海员穿越孟加拉湾，千年以来，是他们的贸易路线将印度、中国和东南亚联系在了一起。到了近代，孟加拉湾丰富的自然资源吸引了欧洲国家，使该地区成了帝国间的竞争和经济活力的舞台。但一直以来，季风及其带来的降雨总是变化无常：周期性的干旱和危险的暴风雨频频构成威胁，影响着该地区。
In the second half of the 19th century, land-hungry investors in an expanding British Empire created tighter connections across the bay. Migration reached huge proportions in the age of the steamship. More than 25 million people crossed the bay between the 1870s and the 1930s; most of them were young men from southern and eastern India destined for the tea estates of Sri Lanka, the rubber plantations of Malaysia and the docks and rice mills of Myanmar. Combined with the concurrent movement of Chinese to Southeast Asia, this was one of the world’s great migrations, though much of it was circular rather than permanent.
19世纪下半叶，随着大英帝国的不断扩张，觊觎土地的投资者让孟加拉湾两岸的联系更加紧密。在蒸汽船时代，移民规模已经相当庞大。从19世纪70年代到20世纪30年代，超过2500万人穿越孟加拉湾，其中大部分是来自印度南部和东部的年轻人。他们的目的地是斯里兰卡的茶园、马来西亚的橡胶种植园和缅甸的码头及米厂。在同一时期，一些中国人迁往东南亚，和印度的人口流动一起，构成了历史上规模最大的移民潮之一，尽管许多移民都是循环往复的，并非永久性移民。
This surge in migration coincided with two of the worst cases in a millennium of the failure of monsoons to bring needed rains. Especially intensive episodes of the phenomenon known as El Niño — the periodic warming of surface waters in the equatorial Pacific — brought drought to large sections of Asia in the 1870s and again in the 1890s. In India, millions died in the famines that ensued. Thousands sought survival overseas; many more moved locally. The people became more interdependent.
在过去一千年里，季风数次没能带来急需的降雨。上述移民狂潮恰逢其中最严重的两次大干旱。尤其是在19世纪70年代和90年代，厄尔尼诺现象——赤道地区的太平洋表层海水周期性变暖——的广泛影响导致亚洲许多地方出现干旱。在印度，数百万人死于随后发生的饥荒。成千上万的人们去异国谋生，还有许多人在国内迁徙。人与人之间更加相互依赖。
Only families with access to credit and wide enough social networks could take advantage of opportunities overseas. Colonial law distinguished between groups who could migrate and those who could not. For those who could not, the price of leaving was often the servitude of indentured labor across the bay. Poverty was as likely as sudden disaster to propel people’s journeys. Once patterns of migration were established, they outlasted particular climatic or economic conditions.
只有那些能拿到贷款并且社会关系足够广的家庭才能抓住海外的机会。殖民法对有能力移民和没能力移民的人是区别对待的。那些无力移民的，离开的代价往往就是签下前往孟加拉湾对面地区的卖身契，给别人做苦力。贫穷和突发性灾害一样，是驱使人们背井离乡的原因。迁徙的模式一旦确立，延续时间会比特定的气候或经济状况持续得更久。
The global economic depression of the 1930s, followed by the Second World War, stemmed migration and trade. After winning independence from colonial rule in the 1940s, Asia’s new states policed their contested borders and controlled migration. Like many leaders of his generation, India’s first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, believed that modern science had “curbed to a large extent the tyranny and the vagaries of nature.”
20世纪30年代的全球经济萧条以及紧接着的第二次世界大战阻碍了移民和贸易。在40年代摆脱殖民统治获得独立后，这些亚洲新国家开始管理具有争议性的边境线，并控制移民。和他那一代的许多领导人一样，印度首任总理贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁(Jawaharlal Nehru)相信，现代科学“在很大程度上抑制住了自然的暴虐与无常”。
But the tyranny and the vagaries of nature were not so easily subdued, and they have taken a dangerous turn. Climate change inaugurates an unpredictable new phase in the life of the Bay of Bengal. Scientists predict a rise in the frequency and intensity of the bay’s notorious cyclones. Over the past decade, more than 18 million people have been affected directly by tropical cyclones in Bangladesh, Myanmar and Thailand alone.
但是击败自然的暴虐和无常并非易事，它们做出了一次危险的转向。气候变化令孟加拉湾的生活进入一个无法预测的新阶段。科学家们预测，该地区臭名昭著的龙卷风在频率和强度上都会升高。过去十年里，仅孟加拉国、缅甸和泰国就有超过1800万人受到热带龙卷风的直接影响。
At the same time, socially if not politically, the bay today resembles the 1890s more than the 1950s. Intraregional migration has resumed. Coastal trade is booming. Old ports that had fallen into decline have seen a revival: Sittwe in Myanmar; Chittagong in Bangladesh; the coastal towns of Tamil Nadu, with long memories of commerce with Southeast Asia.
与此同时，今天的孟加拉湾地区在社会甚至政治上更接近19世纪90年代，而不是20世纪50年代。地区内部的移民重新开始。沿海贸易正在繁荣。衰败的旧港口出现复兴：比如缅甸的实兑；孟加拉国的吉大港；印度泰米尔纳德邦的闫海城镇，都是和东南亚有着历史悠久的贸易往来的地方。
The bay’s history shows that spiritual traditions, language and migrant routes are as likely to track the course of coastlines or rivers as they are to cling to national borders. Migration will continue to be a source of resilience in the region, offering a lifeline to groups that cannot rely on state protection. While much of the movement will be internal within countries, some people affected by rising waters will seek safety farther from home.
孟加拉湾的历史表明，在紧贴着国境线的同时，宗教传统、语言和移民路线还会依循海岸线或河流的走向。移民将继续为这个地区的复苏提供动力，给那些无法指望政府保护的人群指出一条求生之路。多数的流动是在国内进行的，不过也有一些受水位升高影响的人选择到离家很远的地方寻找安身之处。
In doing so, they provoke an anxiety about borders that is a legacy of the bay’s political history.
这样一来，人们对作为海湾地区政治历史遗存的国境线就产生了担忧。
Where local people see a fluid frontier, state officials see firm lines on a map. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that since 2012, more than 13,000 people have tried to cross the Bay of Bengal in smugglers’ boats destined for Malaysia and Thailand. Hundreds have died in the attempts; those who survive the journey face a harsh reception. Most of the refugees are Rohingya from coastal Myanmar, escaping a toxic mix of communal violence, political disenfranchisement and environmental threats. They are the most recent in a long line of people who have risked their lives to cross the bay.
在本地人看来它是一条流淌着的边境，但政府官员在地图上看到的却是一条条实线。联合国难民事务高级专员公署(United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)估计，自2012年以来，有超过1.3万人乘坐走私船只企图穿越孟加拉湾，前往马来西亚和泰国。数百人在途中殒命；那些活下来的人也要面对冷酷的待遇。多数难民是来自缅甸沿海地区的罗兴亚人，在宗派暴力冲突、政治权利被剥夺和环境威胁等多重不利因素之下，他们选择了逃亡。冒着生命危险穿越海湾的行为由来已久，他们是最新的一波。
The Bay of Bengal urgently needs more effective cooperation for environmental protection — for instance, by regulating fishing, protecting mangrove forests and curbing persistent pollutants and carbon dioxide emissions. More coordinated and humane policies on migration must also be developed. Hope for a new regionalism lies in recognizing that the bay’s history, as much as its ecology, transcends national frontiers.
孟加拉湾亟待就环境保护开展更有效的合作——例如对捕鱼活动加以监管，保护红树丛林，抑制持续污染和二氧化碳排放。还要建立起更协调一致、更人性化的移民政策。但愿能有一种新型的地方主义形成，在面对生态问题的同时，也对孟加拉湾地区的历史有所体认，不再拘泥于国家的边界。