We were near the end of our morning run when Zhang Mei looked up at the imposing escarpment rising to the west of the ancient town of Dali. Ms. Zhang, the founder of WildChina, a boutique travel agency, was visiting her hometown, in a remote and mountainous corner of southwestern China. I knew her from Beijing and happened to be in Dali this week, too, so I somehow allowed myself to be talked into doing a run with her. She was training for her fifth marathon, which she planned to run in Guangdong Province in late November. Our morning run had taken us past farm fields and white-washed village homes and the blue expanse of Erhai Lake, one of China’s largest bodies of fresh water.
我们的晨跑就要结束时，张玫抬起头来向古城大理西边壮观的陡峭悬崖望去。张玫是碧山精品旅游公司的创始人，她正在老家探亲，这是位于中国西南的一个遥远且多山的角落。我和她在北京相识，恰巧这周也在大理，于是我莫名其妙地被她拉来一起跑歩。她正在为她的第5次马拉松比赛做准备，比赛计划在11月底在广东省举行。我们的晨跑带着我们经过了农场的田野、白墙的村舍，还有中国最大的淡水湖之一洱海。
But now, as we ran back toward Dali, it was the Cangshan, or Cang Mountains, looming more than 4,000 meters in front of us, that interested her. A layer of white cloud hovered just above the peaks like frosting on a cake. Ms. Zhang said that on Saturday, runners of the Dali 100, an ultramarathon of 100 kilometers, or 62 miles, would pass through the lush heart of the Cangshan. The slopes were thickly forested and carved by steep gullies and waterfalls. Ms. Zhang had gone the previous day to the mountains to check out part of the course and had found the path formidable.
然而此刻，在我们朝着返回大理的方向跑时，耸现在我们眼前的这座海拔4000多米的苍山吸引了她。山头上缠绕着一层白云，仿佛是蛋糕上的糖霜。张玫说，周六参加全程100公里的大理100超级马拉松赛的选手，要从苍山树木茂盛的腹地经过。苍山的山坡覆盖着茂密的森林，被一些沟壑和瀑布分割开。张玫前一天进山查看了部分比赛路线，发现路线令人生畏。
“I hope the runners stay safe,” Ms. Zhang, 42, said. “As a local, I’m scared of the mountains. But outsiders don’t have the same fear.”
今年42岁的张玫说，“我希望赛手们能平安无事。作为当地人，我很害怕这山。但外地人没有这种恐惧。”
The route was not designed for the weak of heart, I learned. After hearing about the Dali 100 that morning, I spoke to the organizer, Yu Lei, an avid endurance runner from the east coast city of Dalian who had been living here in Dali for the past two months, organizing the race. More than 60 runners had signed up to run 100 kilometers and more than 80 to run 50 kilometers, he said. Mr. Yu was very much aware of the culture of risk involved in ultramarathons. Take the famous Marathon des Sables, which covers about 250 kilometers in the Sahara over six days. Three runners have died.
后来我了解到，这条路线不是给心脏脆弱的人设计的。那天早上听到大理100公里赛跑的事情后，我和比赛的组织者于雷聊了聊，于雷来自东部沿海城市大连，酷爱耐力赛跑，过去两个月里，他为了组织这次比赛一直住在大理。他说，已经有60多名选手报名参加100公里的比赛，另有80多人报名参加50公里的比赛。于雷很了解超级马拉松所涉及的风险文化。比如著名的撒哈拉沙漠马拉松(Marathon des Sables)，全程约250公里，持续6天的时间。已有三名选手在比赛中死亡。
Mr. Yu said his course was no walk in the woods, either. The course went up to 4,092 meters, more than 13,400 feet, above sea level, equal to the heights of some of the highest peaks in the continental United States.
于雷说他的比赛也绝非林间漫步。比赛路线的最高点海拔4092米，相当于美国大陆一些最高山峰的海拔。
“There is a stretch of 20 kilometers that goes through the middle of the Cangshan,” he said. “It’s very dangerous. If it starts raining, it could get very slippery. There might even be small landslides.”
他说，“其中有20公里要穿越苍山深处，很危险。如果开始下雨的话，路会很滑。有的地方甚至还会出现小的滑坡。”
Long-distance running is increasingly popular in China, and 42-kilometer marathons in the big cities draw many participants. On Oct. 20, more than 30,000 people ran the Beijing Marathon (some urinated on the vermilion walls of the Forbidden City). Ultramarathons, though, are still considered by many Chinese to be the province of the unhealthily obsessed or mentally unstable. One of the better known ones in China is the North Face 100 in Beijing, and that draws only a small fraction of the attention of the Beijing Marathon or Great Wall Marathon.
长跑活动在中国越来越受欢迎，大城市里举行的42公里马拉松赛吸引很多人参加。10月20日，有3万多人参加了北京马拉松（一些人还在紫禁城的大红墙下撒尿）。但是，超级马拉松在很多中国人眼里仍是那些病态痴迷于运动或精神不正常的人才干的事。中国比较著名的超级马拉松是北京的北脸100(North Face 100)，但其受到的关注程度比北京马拉松或长城马拉松的小多了。
Mr. Yu is doing his best to widen the appeal. The Dali event is already the second 100-kilometer race he has organized this year. In April, Mr. Yu oversaw the Dalian 100 in his hometown. There were 240 participants, and more than half had registered for the full 100 kilometers, Mr. Yu said. His goal is to organize an ultramarathon in four cities beginning with the sound “Da” — Dalian, Dali, Datong and Daqing.
于雷在尽最大的努力来增加超级马拉松的吸引力。这次大理的赛事是他今年组织的第二场100公里赛跑。4月份，他在自己的家乡组织过大连100。于雷说，那次有240人参加，其中有半数以上的人报名参加了全程100公里的比赛。他的目标是在四个以“大”字开头的城市，大连、大理、大同和大庆，各举办一次超级马拉松赛。
“I feel as a runner it’s my responsibility to promote this event, and also to teach people that outdoor activities can make them happier and healthier,” said Mr. Yu, 35.
于雷今年35岁，他说，“作为一个长跑爱好者，我认为我有责任宣传这项活动，并使人们懂得，户外活动能让他们更快乐、更健康。”
The inspiration came after Mr. Yu completed an ultramarathon in Italy last year. He said he had blisters over his two feet, and six of his toenails had fallen off. But “this event gave me a second life,” he said. “It made me feel like I was reborn, like a phoenix.”
于雷去年在意大利参加了一次超级马拉松赛后产生了灵感。他说他的双脚都起泡了，还掉了六个脚趾甲。但是他说，“那个活动给了我第二次生命。让我觉得像凤凰一样得到了重生。”
Mr. Yu said that in the run-up to the Dalian race, people “were really skeptical. They asked, ‘How can anybody finish running 100 kilometers?’ But after the event ended, we got really good reviews from all over the country.” Organizers of the Ultra-Trail du Mont Blanc, a well-known 168-kilometer race in the Alps, decided to recognize the events Mr. Yu was organizing and allow runners of those races to earn points toward qualifying for the Mont Blanc run, Mr. Yu said.
于雷说，在准备大连的赛事时，人们“非常怀疑。他们问，‘能有人跑完100公里吗？’但比赛结束之后，我们得到全国各地的好评。”于雷说，环勃朗峰超级越野跑(Ultra-Trail du Mont Blanc)--这是在阿尔皮斯山举行的全程168公里的著名比赛--的组织者决定承认于雷组织的活动，并允许参加这些比赛的选手为获得参加环勃朗峰赛的资格挣分。
Organizing an ultramarathon in China can pose special challenges. In October, Ms. Zhang ran in a 100-kilometer race near Beijing. The route traversed hilly terrain. But even tougher were the attitudes of some of the local farmers — they blocked the runners several times because they did not want the athletes trampling through their land. Ms. Zhang said that, because of those delays, she did not finish. “Some people in China aren’t ready for these kinds of races,” she said.
在中国组织一场超级马拉松赛会遇到一些特殊的问题。10月份，张玫曾在北京附近参加了一场100公里的赛跑。比赛路线穿越了山区。但是比这更加艰难的是一些当地农民的态度，因为他们不想让运动员践踏自己的土地，多次阻挡参赛者。张玫说，由于这些延误，她没有跑完全程。她说，“中国有些人还没有为这类活动做好准备。”
On Thursday afternoon, I hiked up into the Cangshan to look for stretches of the Dali 100 course. Mr. Yu had said the path would start at the Three Pagodas outside the north gate of the ancient town and go up from there. In the mountains, on a well-paved hiking trail about 2,800 meters above sea level, I came across red sashes tied to pine trees that marked the race route. This was a flat section that followed the contours of gullies. I came across the Zhonghe Temple and began descending the mountain on the steep, dirt hiking trail. The red sashes were still on the trees here. The trail was narrow, and in the rain it would be slippery.
周四下午，我爬了苍山，去看看大理100公里赛跑要经过的一些地方。于雷说，比赛路线从古镇东门外的大理三塔开始，一路上坡。在海拔2800米的一条平缓的登山小道上，我看到了绑在松树上红带子，这是赛道的标志。这段路沿着深沟的边缘平缓而行。经过中和寺后，沿着又陡又泥泞的山道开始下行。这条山道边的树上也绑着红带子。路很窄，如果下雨的话，会变得很滑。
Then I found myself walking through a large cemetery. I realized two things — it was Halloween, and the red sashes had disappeared. The race route had veered off on a different dirt path, away from the hiking trail. I thought Mr. Yu must have diverted the route away from the cemetery so as not to spook the runners. When I came down from the mountain, I called Mr. Yu to ask whether this was indeed the case.
接下来，我发现自己正在一个很大的墓地里穿行。我这才意识到两件事：此刻在美国是万圣节，而红带子不见了。赛道已经偏离了山路，转到了另外一条泥泞的小路上。我猜想，于雷肯定是因为不想让参赛者受惊，才让跑步的路线绕开墓地。我从山上下来后，给于雷打电话问是不是这样。
“No, that’s not the reason,” he said. “We just wanted to make the path longer to ensure the race is 100 kilometers. There’s a cemetery on our route, too.”
“不是因为这个，”他说，“我们只是要延长比赛路线，确保其达到100公里。我们的路线上也要经过一个墓地。”