HONG KONG — Trash on beaches is an unwelcome reality for people in Hong Kong, as it is in many places in the world. In recent days, however, the city’s shores have been inundated by an overwhelming amount of debris, prompting public complaints and a search for the source of the refuse.
香港——海滩上的垃圾是不受当地人欢迎的现实存在，正如垃圾在世界上许多地方一样。但近日来，香港的海滩已被大量的残渣覆盖，引起了市民的投诉、以及对废弃物来源的调查。
Hong Kong’s top official, Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, said that mainland China was partly to blame. “We’ve seen an unusual phenomenon in recent weeks that lots of domestic garbage from the mainland has washed up in Hong Kong, which we estimate could be related to heavy rainfall and flooding,” he said on Sunday as he and a dozen high-ranking officials picked up trash on Lantau Island.
香港最高领导人行政长官梁振英表示，中国内地对这些垃圾负有部分责任。他和十几名香港高级官员周日在大屿山拾垃圾时说，“最近几周里，我们已看到一个不寻常的现象，既大量来自内地的生活垃圾被冲到香港，我们估计这可能与暴雨和洪水有关。”
The group of officials, joined by cleanup crews, picked up 3,000 pounds of debris, a government statement said. In the first nine days of this month, government departments collected more than 85 tons of debris from Hong Kong’s shores, it said.
据政府发布的新闻公报，这群官员与清洁工人一起收集了1350公斤垃圾。新闻公报说，在本月的头九天里，政府部门在香港海滩和沿海地带共收集到约78公吨的废弃物。
Mr. Leung said the Hong Kong government would coordinate with the authorities in neighboring Guangdong Province to reduce the flow of marine debris. Hong Kong is a semiautonomous Chinese city that sits at the mouth of the Pearl River, a major waterway that flows past several large Guangdong cities.
梁振英表示，香港政府将与广东省的当局协调，以减少漂到香港的海洋垃圾。香港是一个半自治的中国城市，位于珠江口，珠江是流经广东省几个大城市的重要水道。
Gary Stokes, the Hong Kong-based Asia director for the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, an environmental group, said he first noticed the abnormally large amount of debris in mid-June. As residents began reporting more polluted beaches, environmentalists combed through the collected material. Information on wrappers and packaging, including the use of simplified Chinese characters and mainland quality-control symbols, points to a mainland source.
加里·斯托克斯(Gary Stokes)是环保组织海洋守护者协会(Sea Shepherd Conservation Society)驻香港的亚洲部主任，他说，他在六月中旬首次注意到垃圾的大量异常出现。随着居民们开始报告越来越多的海滩受到污染，环境保护人士对收集到的废弃物进行了分析。包装膜和包装盒上使用的简体字和大陆质量控制标记等信息，把垃圾的来源指向了大陆。
“The trash we have on the beaches here is just horrendous,” Mr. Stokes said in an interview. “At the moment, a large amount of it is mainland debris.”
“我们这里海滩上的垃圾量之大简直令人震惊，”斯托克斯接受采访时说。“就目前来看，其中有大量来自大陆的废弃物。”
One possible culprit is the island of Wailingding, which is south of Hong Kong but administered by the Guangdong city of Zhuhai. Mr. Stokes posted a series of photos on Facebook that he received from sailors showing debris spilling from a large dump on Wailingding that abuts the coast.
一个可能的罪魁祸首是外伶仃岛，该岛位于香港以南，归广东省珠海市管辖。斯托克斯在Facebook上公布了水手们发给他的一系列照片，照片显示外伶仃岛紧靠海岸的一个大型倾倒场有大量垃圾泄漏出来。
But he cautions that the dump site is unlikely to be the sole source of Hong Kong’s marine trash problems, and the city, which produces a large amount of waste, is also responsible for the mess. The increased public awareness could help bolster recycling initiatives in Hong Kong, such as the introduction of a deposit for plastic bottles, he said.
但斯托克斯警告说，该倾倒场不大可能是香港海洋垃圾问题的唯一来源，香港本身也产生大量的废弃物，也对垃圾问题负有责任。提高公众对垃圾的意识将有助于香港的回收活动，他说，比如用对塑料瓶收押金的方法。