CAIRO — Shaking hands and kissing foreheads, the monarchs of the Persian Gulf came together this month to declare that they had resolved an 18-month feud in order to unite against their twin enemies, Iran and the Islamic State.
开罗——波斯湾各国的君主这个月聚在一起，又是握手又是亲吻额头，宣布他们解决了一段长达18个月的纷争，联合起来对抗两个共同的敌人，伊朗和伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。
But the split is still festering, most visibly here in the place where it broke out over the military ouster of Egypt’s Islamist president. “Nothing has changed — nothing, nothing,” said a senior Egyptian official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss confidential diplomacy.
然而分歧仍未消除，针对埃及，由于该国军方罢黜了伊斯兰派总统，这种分歧尤为明显。“什么都没有改变，没有，”一位埃及官员说。由于讨论的是机密的外交事宜，这名官员要求匿名。
The tensions are raising questions about the ability of the gulf states to muster a coherent response to a storm of crises rocking the region.
令人紧张的分歧引来了质疑，即海湾国家有没有能力做出协调的回应，以应对撼动中东地区的一连串危机。
Discord among the gulf states has undermined efforts to coordinate support for rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and contributed to the emergence of the Islamic State. It has muted the attempts of the Gulf Cooperation Council, the alliance founded by the six gulf states, to counter what they see as expanding Iranian influence. And in Libya, rival gulf states have backed competing armed factions and hastened a slide toward full civil war.
在反对派势力对抗叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)时，海湾国家之间的分歧破坏了协调各方共同为反对派提供支持的努力，进而帮助了伊斯兰国的崛起。这种分歧也影响了海湾合作委员会(Gulf Cooperation Council)遏制伊朗势力的努力。这个联盟由六个波斯湾国家组成，在它们看来伊朗的影响力正在扩张。而在利比亚，相互竞争的海湾国家支持了对立的武装派系，加剧了滑向全面内战的趋势。
“The region is verging on collapse,” said Michael Stephens, a Doha-based researcher for the Royal United Services Institute, a British research organization. “The last thing you need is a G.C.C. that is fractured and can’t speak with one voice.”
英国智库皇家三军联合研究所(Royal United Services Institute)驻多哈研究员迈克尔·史蒂芬斯(Michael Stephens)说，“这个地区临近崩溃的边缘，海合会四分五裂，不能表达一致的立场，这可是你最不想要的局面。”
At the heart of the feud is a dispute over political Islam pitting Qatar against its neighbors, principally Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Having struck an alliance with the Muslim Brotherhood in a play for regional influence, Qatar financially supported the group’s former government in Egypt, opposed the military takeover as an illegal “coup” and provided a haven to Islamists in exile after the subsequent crackdown. Qatar’s Al Jazeera network has repeatedly excoriated the new government of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.
冲突的核心问题是政治伊斯兰引发的争论，卡塔尔因此与其邻国，主要是沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国产生了分歧。卡塔尔为了角逐地区影响力，与穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)结成同盟，并为埃及的前穆兄会政府提供财政支持。卡塔尔反对军方接管政府，认为那是一场非法的“政变”，而且在随即到来的镇压中，为流亡的伊斯兰派活动人士提供了庇护。卡塔尔的半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)则反复抨击埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)领导的新政府。
Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., which consider the Brotherhood a threat to their own stability, both backed the Egyptian military takeover. And both have pressed Qatar to expel the exiled Islamists and curb Al Jazeera.
沙特和阿联酋认为，穆兄会对自身的稳定构成了威胁，两国都对接管政权的军方提供了支持。双方也都向卡塔尔施压，要求驱逐流亡的伊斯兰派人士，并约束半岛电视台。
In the weeks leading up to this month’s regional summit, several gulf news outlets had reported that Qatar had effectively buckled, agreeing to both demands. A final communiqué from the meeting expressed “full support for Egypt” and Mr. Sisi’s “road map” for a political transition.
在本月的地区峰会召开前的几周时间里，数家海湾地区的新闻媒体报道，卡塔尔实际上已经承受不了压力，同意了这两项要求。会议最后的公报对埃及和塞西实施政治转型的“路线图”表达了“全力的支持”。
But government officials on both sides of the gulf split now acknowledge privately that Qatar scarcely budged. Instead, Saudi Arabia and the Emirates suspended their anti-Brotherhood campaign against Qatar because of the more urgent threats they saw gathering around them.
然而在争论中分属两派的海湾国家政府官员现在却私下里承认，卡塔尔并没有做出多少让步。反而是沙特和阿联酋，中止了两国向卡塔尔施压，要求遏制穆兄会的做法，因为它们看到，更紧迫的威胁正在袭来。
A senior Qatari official, also speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the joint communiqué supporting Mr. Sisi’s road map was merely a “press release” that carried little significance.
一位卡塔尔高官在匿名的条件下透露，联合公报中支持塞西路线图的表述，只是一则“新闻稿”，没有什么意义。
“We will always support the population of Egypt,” the official said. Al Jazeera was “editorially independent,” he said, adding that the other states “should not create political issues just because a channel is broadcasting what is happening.”
“我们会永远支持埃及民众，”这位官员说。他表示，半岛电视台“采编工作是独立的”。此外他还指出，其他国家“不应该仅仅因为一家电视台播报了正在发生的事件，就制造政治问题”。
Although Qatar asked some Brotherhood members to leave Doha because of their political activities, only 10 or fewer have done so, according to Brotherhood leaders and Qatari officials. “We have not asked them to leave in any way, and we have not bothered them in any way,” the official said.
尽管卡塔尔因为其政治活动而要求一些穆兄会成员离开多哈，但穆兄会领袖和卡塔尔官员表示，真的离开的只有10人甚至更少。“我们并没有以任何方式要求他们离开，也没有以任何方式骚扰他们，”这位官员说。
Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an influential Egyptian-born preacher close to the Brotherhood whose criticism of the other gulf autocracies has long drawn their ire, is a Qatari citizen and remains in Doha despite an Egyptian warrant for his arrest. The leadership of Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that began as a Brotherhood franchise, is still based there as well.
生于埃及的教士谢赫优素福·卡拉达维(Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi)有很大的影响力，也与穆兄会关系紧密。他对海湾地区其他专制国家表达的批评，令这些国家愤恨已久。但卡拉达维是卡塔尔公民，尽管埃及发出了逮捕令，他仍然留在多哈。巴勒斯坦武装组织哈马斯(Hamas)的领导层也在卡塔尔。该组织起初是穆兄会的分支。
Al Jazeera is still broadcasting an Egyptian affiliate from outside the country, even though the new government has banned it. And it recently featured an analyst who argued that Mr. Sisi and former President Hosni Mubarak should both be executed for directing the killing of protesters challenging their power. The court “should hang Abdel Fattah el-Sisi 10 times” because “in one hour, he killed 20 times more people” during his crackdown on the Brotherhood’s protests against the takeover, the analyst, Mohamed al-Kudoussi, declared.
尽管埃及新政府发布了相关禁令，半岛电视台仍在该国以外地区通过自己的一个埃及分支进行播报。该电视台最近采访的一名分析人士称，塞西和前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)都应该被处死，因为他们曾下令杀害挑战其权威的抗议者。分析人士穆罕默德·库多西(Mohamed al-Kudoussi)声称，法庭“应该对阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西处以10次绞刑，”因为他在镇压穆兄会反对军方接管政权的活动时，一小时内杀了20倍于此的人”。
Ahmed Mohamed, a guest on the channel whose brother was killed by police under Mr. Mubarak, said: “We apologize to all members of the Muslim Brotherhood that we took to the streets and called for a man like Sisi, who is another face of Mubarak.”
在该电视台担任嘉宾的艾哈迈德·穆罕默德(Ahmed Mohamed)表示，“我们向所有穆兄会成员道歉，我们走上街头抗议，却换来了塞西这样的人，他就是另一个穆巴拉克。”穆罕默德的兄弟在穆巴拉克执政时期被警方杀害。
The tensions among the gulf allies first burst into the open around the time of the military takeover in Egypt last year.
海湾盟友之间的紧张局势第一次公开爆发是在去年埃及军方接管政府的时候。
Both Saudi Arabia and the Emirates began a campaign to purge the Brotherhood from Qatar and the region.
沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国都已开展行动，将穆兄会从卡塔尔及该地区清除出去。
In December 2013, Egyptian police jailed three journalists for Al Jazeera’s English-language affiliate. Despite an absence of evidence, a court ultimately sentenced each to at least seven years in prison for conspiring with the Brotherhood.
2013年12月，埃及警方监禁了半岛电视台英文频道的三名记者。尽管缺乏证据，法庭最终还是以与穆兄会勾结为名，判处每一名记者至少七年监禁。
Finally, in the spring, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt pulled their ambassadors from Doha.
沙特阿拉伯、阿拉伯联合酋长国、巴林及埃及最终在今年春季召回各国驻多哈大使。
Other dangers, however, have since taken center stage. Having conquered parts of Syria and Iraq — in part by exploiting divisions among gulf-backed rebel groups — the Islamic State has now begun threatening Saudi Arabia.
随后其他威胁成为关注焦点。伊斯兰国在一定程度上通过利用受海湾国家支持的叛乱组织之间的分歧，占领了叙利亚及伊拉克的部分地区，现在又开始对沙特阿拉伯构成威胁。
Iran, the regional rival whose revolution inspired the creation of the Gulf Cooperation Council more than 30 years ago, is pursuing a deal with Washington to limit Tehran’s nuclear energy program in exchange for sanctions relief — presenting the gulf with the unhappy prospect of either a nuclear Iran on the one hand or an economically recovering Iran on the other.
30多年前，其地区大敌伊朗的革命活动推动了海湾合作委员会的成立。目前，伊朗正在努力与华盛顿方面达成限制德黑兰核能项目的协议，以换取对伊朗制裁的解除——这向海湾国家提供了一种令人纠结的选择，要么是拥有核武器的伊朗，要么是经济不断复苏的伊朗。
Now Iran is deploying airstrikes over Iraq in de facto coordination with the Western-backed coalition against the Islamic State. And Iran is simultaneously backing the rebel group that has derailed a political transition in Yemen brokered by the gulf states.
伊朗正在伊拉克境内展开空袭，这实际上是与西方支持的联盟联手打击伊斯兰国。伊朗同时也在支持阻碍也门政治变革的叛乱组织，该变革由海湾国家主持开展。
“The common threat is the unifying issue here,” said Mustafa Alani, an analyst at the Gulf Research Center who is close to the Saudi government. “The security environment in the region is what is pressing the countries to unify. There is no other option.”
“共同的威胁将大家聚拢在一起，”海湾研究中心(Gulf Reserch Center)分析人士穆斯塔法·阿勒阿尼(Mustafa Alani)说，“该地区的安全环境迫使各个国家联合起来。没有其他选择。”阿勒阿尼与沙特政府关系紧密。
The gulf states returned their ambassadors to Doha in time for the summit this month, and now there are signs that Saudi Arabia is urging Egypt to mend its rift with Qatar as well. In Cairo on Saturday, a special envoy from the king of Saudi Arabia convened the first meeting between Mr. Sisi and a Qatari envoy. The Saudi royal court said in a statement that King Abdullah wanted to open “a new page” in Egypt-Qatar relations and urged each side to restrain the tone of its news media toward the other.
为了本月峰会的及时召开，海湾国家同意各国大使重返多哈。现有迹象表明，沙特阿拉伯还在敦促埃及弥合与卡塔尔的裂痕。周六，沙特国王的特使在开罗邀请塞西与卡塔尔大使举行首次会晤。沙特王室发表声明称，阿卜杜拉国王(King Abdullah)希望掀开埃及-卡塔尔关系的“新篇章”，并敦促双方束缚本国新闻媒体针对对方的基调。