The three Navy SEALs stomped on the bound Afghan detainees and dropped heavy stones on their chests, the witnesses recalled. They stood on the prisoners’ heads and poured bottles of water on some of their faces in what, to a pair of Army soldiers, appeared to be an improvised form of waterboarding.
目击者回忆称，三名海军海豹突击队(Navy SEALs)成员踩跺被绑起来的阿富汗囚犯，将沉重的石头砸向他们的胸膛。他们踩在囚犯的头上，还向其中一些人的脸上倒了几瓶水，在两名陆军士兵看来，这仿佛是即兴发挥的水刑。
A few hours earlier, shortly after dawn on May 31, 2012, a bomb had exploded at a checkpoint manned by an Afghan Local Police unit that the SEALs were training. Angered by the death of one of their comrades in the blast, the police militiamen had rounded up half a dozen or more suspects from a market in the village of Kalach and forced them to a nearby American outpost. Along the way, they beat them with rifle butts and car antennas.
几个小时之前，也就是2012年5月31日天亮后不久，一颗炸弹在由阿富汗地方警察部队把守的检查站爆炸，该部队正在接受海豹突击队的培训。警察部队的一名成员在爆炸中死亡，愤怒的警方民兵在卡拉什村的市场围捕了至少六名嫌疑人，并将他们带到了附近的一个美国军事基地。他们在途中用枪托和汽车天线殴打嫌疑人。
A United States Army medic standing guard at the base, Specialist David Walker, had expected the men from SEAL Team 2 to put a stop to the abuse. Instead, he said, one of them “jump-kicked this guy kneeling on the ground.” Two others joined in, Specialist Walker and several other soldiers recounted, and along with the Afghan militiamen, they beat the detainees so badly that by dusk, one would die.
在该基地站岗的美国陆军医生戴维·沃克(David Walker)以为，海豹突击队第二分队会阻止虐待行为。但相反，他表示，其中一人“跳起来踢一名跪在地上的囚犯”。据沃克和其他几名士兵透露，又有两名士兵加入其中，与阿富汗民兵一起殴打囚犯，由于用力过猛，其中一人在黄昏前死亡。
The four American soldiers working with the SEALs reported the episode, which has not previously been disclosed. In a Navy criminal investigation, two Navy support personnel said they had witnessed some abuse by the SEALs, as did a local police officer. Separately, an Afghan detained with the man who died provided a detailed account of mistreatment by American troops and Afghan militiamen in an interview with The New York Times.
四名与海豹突击队共事的美国士兵上报了这起之前未被披露过的事件。在海军开展的刑事调查中，两名海军后方人员表示，他们目睹了海豹突击队的一些虐待行为，一名当地警察也看到了这些情况。另外，一名与死亡男子关押在一起的阿富汗人在接受《纽约时报》采访时，详细讲述了美国士兵和阿富汗民兵的施虐行为。
The SEAL command, though, cleared the Team 2 members of wrongdoing in a closed disciplinary process that is typically used only for minor infractions, disregarding a Navy lawyer’s recommendation that the troops face assault charges and choosing not to seek a court-martial. Two of the SEALs and their lieutenant have since been promoted, even though their commander in Afghanistan recommended that they be forced out of the elite SEAL teams.
但海豹突击队的司令部不顾海军律师的建议，即对士兵们提出袭击指控，而是选择不将此事提交军事法庭，只举行了通常只适用于轻微违纪的闭门纪律听证会，并裁定第二分队的队员没有过失。此后，其中两名海豹突击队成员及其上级军官获得晋升，尽管他们在阿富汗的指挥官建议，应该把他们开除出精锐的海豹突击队。
“It just comes down to what’s wrong and what’s right,” Specialist Walker said in a recent interview. “You can’t squint hard enough to make this gray.”
“这归根结底是对与错的问题，”沃克最近接受采访时说。“没办法睁一只眼闭一只眼，假装没问题。”
Even before the beatings, some of the SEALs had exhibited troubling behavior. According to the soldiers and Afghan villagers, they had amused themselves by tossing grenades over the walls of their base, firing high-caliber weapons at passing vehicles and even aiming slingshots at children, striking them in the face with hard candy.
甚至在殴打发生之前，一些海豹突击队成员就有一些令人不安的举动。据士兵及阿富汗村民透露，他们曾向基地围墙外扔手榴弹，利用大口径武器射击过往的车辆，甚至还将弹弓对准儿童，用硬糖打他们的脸部，以此取乐。
Abuse of detainees is among the most serious offenses an American service member can commit. Several military justice experts, who reviewed a Naval Criminal Investigative Service report on the case at the request of The Times, said that it had been inappropriate for the SEAL command to treat such allegations as an internal disciplinary matter and that it should have referred the case for an Article 32 review, the equivalent of a grand jury, to consider a court-martial.
虐待囚犯属于美国服役人员可能犯下的罪行中最严重的一档。几名军事司法专家应时报要求，查看了海军刑事调查局(Naval Criminal Investigative Service)有关该案的报告，他们表示海豹突击队指挥部将这些指控当作内部纪律问题处理是不恰当的，应该将此案提交军事法庭，根据军法第32条举行听证——相当于召集大陪审团。
“It’s unfathomable,” said Donald J. Guter, a retired rear admiral and former judge advocate general of the Navy, in charge of all its lawyers. “It really does look like this was intended just to bury this.”
“这是难以理解的，”退役海军少将、前海军军法署署长唐纳德·J·古特(Donald J. Guter)说。“这看起来确实像是有意隐瞒。”海军军法署负责管理海军的所有法务人员。
Navy officials defended the handling of the case, saying the SEAL captain who oversaw it had had full authority to decide it as he saw fit. The captain, Robert E. Smith, who was then in charge of SEALs based on the East Coast and is now a military assistant to the secretary of the Navy, said in a recent statement that the Team 2 members had denied abusing the detainees. Captain Smith said that he had found inconsistencies in the soldiers’ accounts when they were questioned five months later, and that conflicting statements from the Army and Navy witnesses “did not give me enough confidence in their overall accuracy to hold the accused accountable for assaults or abuse, or warrant Article 32 proceedings.”
海军官员们为案件的处理方式做出辩解，称海豹突击队队长可以按照自己认为适当的方式全权处理此事。当时担任驻东海岸海豹突击队分队队长的罗伯特·E·史密斯上校(Robert E. Smith)，现在是海军部长的军事助理。他最近发表声明称，第二分队的队员否认虐待囚犯的说法。史密斯表示，相关士兵在事件发生五个月后提供的口供并不一致，而且陆军及海军目击者提供的证词相互矛盾，“不足以令我相信证据的总体准确性，无法追究被控实施攻击或虐待行为的人的责任，或启动军法第32条规定的程序”。
While he said it was “evident” that the Afghan militiamen had mistreated the detainees and that the SEALs had not reported it, he dismissed charges for failing to make such a report.
虽然他表示，“很明显”，阿富汗民兵虐待囚犯，而海豹突击队却没有报告此事，但对于未能上报的指摘，他不以为意。
What happened in Kalach involved just one death in a conflict that has taken thousands of lives, but it had broader consequences. Instead of winning over the local population, the goal of the mission, the reported abuse further alienated villagers. It drove some previously cooperative Afghans to leave for Taliban-controlled areas, residents said.
尽管这里的冲突已经夺走了数千人的生命，而卡拉什村发生的事情只涉及一起死亡案例，但它却带来了更广泛的影响。美国驻军的目标是赢得当地民众的支持，但报告的虐待行为不仅无助于实现这一目标，反而进一步疏远了村民。居民们表示，此事导致之前愿意合作的阿富汗人，前往了由塔利班控制的地区。
The SEALs’ failure to restrain the Afghan Local Police, who were supposed to protect villages but instead often terrorized them, helped erode confidence in the American and Afghan governments, whose forces have repeatedly been accused of abusing or killing civilians. During the United States’ engagement in Afghanistan, now stretching into its 15th year, the American military has expanded the mandate for SEALs, sometimes assigning them roles for which they are neither suited nor trained.
海豹突击队没能制止阿富汗当地警察的行为，后者本该保护村民，但却经常恐吓他们，这削弱了人们对美国和阿富汗政府的信心。阿富汗部队也经常被指控虐待或杀死平民。美国向阿富汗派出部队迄今已是第15个年头，其军方一直扩大针对海豹突击队的授权，有时候让他们担当了并不合适自己、也不曾进行相关训练的角色。
Brushing away serious charges, military justice experts said, reflects a breakdown of accountability that feeds the perception that SEALs and other elite Special Operations units get undue leeway when it comes to discipline. In murky wars with unclear battle lines, they warned, that can corrode ethical clarity and undermine morale.
军事司法专家表示，对严重的指控置若罔闻，显示出问责失败，这让人们愈发觉得海豹突击队和其他精英特种部队在纪律方面获得了不合理的宽松对待。他们警告，在模糊战线上进行的不清不楚的战争中，这有可能会损害腐蚀人的道德水准，损害部队的精神面貌。
“What’s the message for the 10,000 guys that were in the same moment and said, ‘No, we’re not crossing this line’?” asked Geoffrey S. Corn, a former military lawyer who was the Army’s senior expert adviser on the law of war. “It diminishes the immense courage it takes to maintain that line between legitimate and illegitimate violence.”
“对于成千上万个处于同一局势之中并说出‘不，我们不要越过红线’的士兵，这代表着什么？”曾担任美国军方在战争法方面的高级专家顾问的前任军队律师杰弗里·S·科恩(Geoffrey S. Corn)问道。“不去跨过合法武力和非法暴力之间的界限需要巨大的勇气，而该事件会削弱这种勇气。”
This account of the events at Kalach, in southern Afghanistan’s Oruzgan Province, and how the Navy handled them is based on interviews with dozens of current and former military personnel. Reporters located victims and other villagers in Afghanistan and tracked down the four American soldiers who made the abuse allegations, who are now scattered across the United States. Most were initially reluctant to speak.
有关阿富汗南部乌鲁兹甘省卡拉什发生的这些事，以及美国海军如何处理它们的描述，是基于对几十位现任和前任军方工作人员的采访。记者找到了受害人及其他阿富汗村民，也找到了四名提出虐待指控的美国士兵，这四个人现在分布在美国不同地区。他们中的大多数一开始都不愿意开口。
The Times also obtained the report prepared by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, including sworn statements by Army, Navy and Afghan witnesses. All names were redacted in the document, acquired through the Freedom of Information Act, but several people familiar with the investigation confirmed them. The report was reviewed by four former military lawyers and a civilian military law expert.
《纽约时报》也拿到了由海军刑事调查局(Naval Criminal Investigative Service)撰写的一份调查报告，其中包括陆军、海军和阿富汗证人所做的宣誓证词。在这份通过《信息自由法》获得的文件里，所有的名字都被涂黑，但几名熟悉相关调查的人士确认了他们的身份。这份报告也经过了四名前任军队律师和一名平民身份的军事法专家的审阅。
In addition to describing misconduct by the SEALs, villagers complained that the Americans had empowered the local militia to act with impunity — taking goods from shops in the market, ransacking homes and delivering a rifle butt to the belly of those who resisted them.
除了指责海豹突击队滥用职权，村民们还抱怨美国人任由当地民兵组织无法无天——从市场上的商店里任意拿走商品，洗劫平民家庭，拿步枪枪托击打反抗他们的人。
The Afghan militiamen in Kalach “were like dogs, and the Americans were the masters,” said Hajji Ahmad Khan Muslim Gizabe, a prominent elder there. “The masters would follow behind the dogs, telling them what to do.”
卡拉什的阿富汗民兵“就像狗一样，美国人则是它们的主人，”在当地德高望重的知名人物哈吉·艾哈迈德·汗·穆斯利姆·吉扎比(Hajji Ahmad Khan Muslim Gizabe)说。“主人会跟在狗的后面，告诉他们做什么。”
Mr. Gizabe said that he had been among the Afghans who aided Hamid Karzai, the future president, in 2001 when he was flown into Oruzgan with American forces to foment resistance to the Taliban. But after what happened in 2012, he said, “I cannot support the Americans.”
吉扎比说，在2001年，后来当选总统的哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)随美国军队来到乌鲁兹甘省，鼓动人们抵抗塔利班，当时，他是帮助卡尔扎伊做事的阿富汗人之一。但他说，2012年的事发生之后，“我无法再去支持美国人。”