In the wake of the Abu Ghraib torture scandal in Iraq, American military leaders recognized the ethical perils and strategic damage prisoner abuse could wreak and made its prevention a priority. The reports of beatings in Kalach immediately caught the attention of officials at the N.C.I.S. headquarters in Quantico, Va.
自伊拉克阿布格莱布(Abu Ghraib)监狱虐囚事件之后，美国军方领导人意识到，虐囚会给军队带来道德风险和战略损害，并开始以预防虐囚为要务。有关卡拉什发生虐囚事件的报道，很快引起了位于弗吉尼亚州匡蒂科的海军刑事调查局(NCIS)总部官员们的注意。
Susan C. Raser, then the head of criminal investigations for the organization, said she and other top officials there had been impressed by how consistent the Army witnesses were in describing the abuse they said had occurred. “I didn’t doubt it for a second,” she said in a recent interview.
当时担任NCIS刑事调查部门负责人的苏珊·C·雷塞(Susan C. Raser)表示，在描述这起他们所说的虐囚事件时，几名陆军证人有着让她和其他高层官员印象很深的一致性。“我一秒钟也没有怀疑过它的真实性，”她在最近接受采访时说。
In reviewing the report in late August 2012, Navy officials said, a lawyer at the Navy Judge Advocate General’s Corps regional office in Norfolk, Va., recommended that Captain Smith, who had just taken over as commander of the East Coast-based SEALs, charge the three enlisted men with assault and failure to report the abuse by the Afghans, and that he further investigate Lieutenant Webb.
几名海军官员表示，2012年8月末审阅这份报告时，位于弗吉尼亚州诺福克市的海军军法署(Navy Judge Advocate General’s Corps)地区办公室的一名律师，曾向刚刚就任驻东海岸海豹突击队分队队长的史密斯上校建议，以人身侵犯和没有报告阿富汗人虐囚事件的罪名，对三名海豹队员提起诉讼，并建议他对韦伯中尉进行进一步的调查。
But the lawyer, whom the Navy declined to identify, said Captain Smith could handle the matter through an internal disciplinary procedure known as a captain’s mast, typically used for infractions like fistfights among sailors or failure to appear for duty. The lawyer cited possible problems at trial without forensic evidence or Afghan victims available.
但这名律师——海军拒绝确认其身份——表示，史密斯上校可以通过被称为“舰长审问”的内部惩戒程序处理这件事，这种程序通常被用来处理海军士兵之间的斗殴或未能到岗等违规问题。这名律师还指出了在没有法医证据或阿富汗受害人作证的情况下，本案在庭审时可能会出现的问题。
The military experts who reviewed the N.C.I.S. report contend that such serious abuse allegations warranted an Article 32 hearing to decide whether a court-martial was justified. Such hearings are public and allow prosecution and defense lawyers to present evidence and question witnesses, which the experts said was the best way to resolve conflicting statements between the Army and Navy witnesses.
几名审阅了NCIS报告的军事专家认为，针对这类严重的虐囚指控，应该根据军法第32条举行听证，以决定是否应当交由军事法庭进行审判。此类听证会是公开的，允许控辩双方律师提交证据和询问目击者。几位专家表示，这是解决陆军和海军证人证词不一致问题的最佳办法。
Commander Hayes weighed in against the four SEALs, sending a letter to Captain Smith recommending that they be kicked out of the teams. But what turned out to be most influential was a videoconference among the Army witnesses and a half-dozen senior enlisted SEALs known as master chiefs, during which, the soldiers said, the chiefs badgered them to change their stories.
哈耶斯中校要求对四名海豹突击队员做出处理，他给史密斯上校发了一封信，建议将他们开除出海豹突击队。但事后证明，产生最大影响的是陆军证人和六名被称为“军士长”的海豹突击队高级士官进行的一次视频会议，几名陆军证人表示，会议期间几名军士长反复纠缠着，要他们改变说法。
They were “implying that we were making it up” to get out of deployment, Sergeant Roschak said in an interview, adding that as a veteran on his fourth combat tour, he had felt insulted. Another soldier, then a sergeant, said the master chiefs had tried to “put words in my mouth.” Like a fourth soldier, he spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to talk publicly about a confidential investigation.
罗沙克上士在接受采访时表示，他们“暗示我们是瞎编的”，目的是为摆脱当时的派遣任务。他还表示，作为一名第四次执行作战任务的老兵，这种指责让他深感侮辱。另一名当时军衔为中士的士兵表示，几位军士长试图“教我该怎么说”。还有一名士兵也如此表示，由于不想公开谈论一项机密调查，他只愿意匿名接受采访。
The chiefs focused on details like the exact number of rounds the SEALs had fired next to detainees’ heads and how many times they had dropped rocks on detainees’ chests, the soldiers said. “They were more concerned with the fact I couldn’t remember how many rounds were fired, instead of why they used a weapon at all while questioning the detainees,” Sergeant Roschak said.
几名士兵还表示，几位军士长将注意力集中在一些细节问题上，比如海豹突击队队员到底挨着囚犯的脑袋开了几枪，以及他们向囚犯胸部砸石头的具体次数。“他们更关心的是我记不得到底开了几枪，而不是那些人为什么在询问犯人时使用武器，”罗沙克上士说。
Cmdr. Jason P. Salata, a spokesman for the SEAL command, said the master chiefs recommended that Captain Smith not bring assault charges, and he agreed. By the time the Team 2 members faced Captain Smith at the mast hearing on Nov. 5, 2012, the only charges they faced were related to the alleged failure to report abuse by the Afghan militiamen.
海豹突击队司令部发言人贾森·P·萨拉塔中校(Cmdr. Jason P. Salata)表示，几位军士长建议史密斯上校不要提起人身攻击的指控，后者同意了。海豹突击队第二分队的成员于2012年11月5日在听证会上接受史密斯上校的审问时，他们所面临的唯一一项指控与外界指责的未能报告阿富汗民兵虐囚事件有关。
The captain’s mast procedure gives broad leeway to the presiding commander. “It really is like ‘The People’s Court’ with Judge Wapner or whatever, and the commander is the judge,” said Mr. Corn, the former Army lawyer. The hearing is closed, with no transcript provided, no impartial officer presiding, no prosecutor and no defense counsel.
舰长审问程序给主持审问的指挥官提供了很大的回旋余地。“真的就像韦普纳法官主持《人民法院》节目那样，在那里，指挥官就是法官，”前美国陆军律师科恩说。这场听证会不对外开放，不提供文字记录，没有中立的军官主持，没有检方，也没有辩方律师。
“There’s no accountability,” Mr. Corn said. “There’s no transparency.”
“没有问责可言，”科恩说。“也一点都不透明。”
Only two of the soldiers, Specialist Walker and Sergeant Roschak, were asked to join by videoconference; no explanation was offered for why the other two were not. The four accused SEALs were standing at attention off to the side. Captain Smith did not challenge the soldiers’ accounts, they said in recent interviews. He was polite, apologized for the tough questioning in the first teleconference and thanked them for coming forward.
只有其中两名陆军士兵——即沃克和罗沙克——被要求通过电话会议参与了听证会；至于另外两名士兵为什么没有参加，对方没有提供任何解释。四名受到指控的海豹突击队队员在一边立正站着。两名参会的士兵最近接受采访时表示，史密斯上校当时没有质疑他们的陈述。他表现得很有礼貌，为他们在第一次视频会议期间受到严厉质询表示道歉，还对他们自告奋勇作证表示感谢。
Later that day, Captain Smith issued his ruling, dismissing the only charges. He opted to give the SEALs non-punitive “letters of instruction” — not even letters of reprimand — suggesting that they could improve their “leadership and decision making,” and reassigned them within the SEAL teams.
那天晚些时候，史密斯上校公布了他的裁决，驳回了那项唯一的指控。他决定给几名海豹队员发出非惩罚性的“教导信”——甚至不是训斥信——暗示他们可以提高自己的“领导力和决策水平”，并在海豹突击队内给他们重新委派了职位。
In his statement to The Times, the captain said the SEALs believed that “their actions de-escalated what was developing into a very dangerous situation.” He also said that the soldiers had not seen firsthand everything they described in their initial statements to investigators, and that they had “partially misinterpreted what they saw from a distance.”
在给《纽约时报》的一份声明中，史密斯上校表示，海豹突击队认为，“他们的行为缓解了一种可能向着极度危险发展的局势。”他还表示，四名陆军士兵最初向调查人员陈述的情况，有的并非他们自己目睹，他们“在一定程度上错误地解读了自己间接看到的东西。”
He did not provide any examples. Other Navy officials could identify only one possible inconsistency, saying Sergeant Roschak had not seen the SEALs dropping rocks on detainees but had stated that they did so based on what his men had told him. But the three other soldiers swore to the N.C.I.S. that they had seen SEALs dropping the rocks.
他未给出任何例子。其他海军官员只能找出一个可能存在矛盾的地方，称罗沙克并没看到海豹队员朝囚犯扔石头，他是根据其他人告诉他的情况那么说的。但另外三名士兵向NCIS发誓说，他们看到海豹队员扔石头。
Rachel E. VanLandingham, who was the United States Central Command’s chief legal adviser on detainee and interrogation issues from 2006 to 2010, called for the case to be reopened, as did several other military lawyers who reviewed the N.C.I.S. report.
2006年到2010年间担任美国中央司令部(United States Central Command)囚犯和审讯问题首席法律顾问的瑞切尔·E·范兰丁厄姆(Rachel E. VanLandingham)，以及另外几名查看过NCIS报告的军方律师均要求重新调查此案。
“There’s more than sufficient information, evidence, data in the documents to more than warrant a new investigation,” Ms. VanLandingham said. “The decision to dispose of these charges via anything but criminal prosecution was grossly flawed.”
“文件里证明有必要重新调查的信息、证据和数据绰绰有余，”范兰丁厄姆说。“不经刑事起诉便撤销这些指控的决定是严重错误的。”
In recent interviews, all four soldiers said they stood by the accounts they had provided in their sworn statements to the N.C.I.S. “It’s hard to forget what happened when it’s the truth,” Specialist Walker said.
最近接受采访时，四名士兵均坚持给NCIS的宣誓证词中的说法。“这是事实，是很难忘记的，”沃克说。
He and the other soldiers expressed surprise that none of the accused SEALs had faced any punishment. “If it was the other way around, me and my guys would be in trouble,” Sergeant Roschak said. “We’d be locked up.”
他和其他士兵对被指控的海豹队员无一受罚表示惊讶。“如果是反过来，我和我的人就会有麻烦，”罗沙克说。“我们会被关起来。
In the Kalach area, the Taliban have extended their influence in the three years since the Americans departed. Recently, they even drove off the Afghan soldiers who had been using the former United States outpost, and destroyed much of it with the help of villagers.
在美军离开后的三年里，塔利班在卡拉什地区的影响力增强。最近，他们甚至赶跑了正在使用前美国基地的阿富汗士兵，并在村民的帮助下了摧毁了基地的大量设施。
Mr. Assadullah still walks with a slight hunch because of the wounds he sustained that spring day at the base. When interviewed in Kabul, the Afghan capital, he pulled up his shirt to show the deep scars on his back. “I feel pain in my whole body, and in the morning I cannot get up,” he said. “I don’t have money to treat this or to go to a doctor. I cannot pay for medicine.”
因为那天在该基地受的伤，阿萨杜拉现在走路时依微微弓着身子。在阿富汗首都喀布尔接受采访时，他撩起T恤给我们看他背上深深的伤疤。“我全身痛，早上起不了床，”他说。“我没钱治，没钱看医生。买不起药。”
Abdul Aziz — the brother of Mr. Hashem, who was killed — traveled with Mr. Assadullah to Kabul and said that in the weeks and months after the episode, he had sent complaint letters to the American military commanders in Oruzgan, the national police and other officials. No one responded.
已去世的哈什姆的兄弟阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹(Abdul Aziz)和阿萨杜拉一起去了喀布尔。他说，在事情发生后的数周甚至数月时间里，他给乌鲁兹甘省的美国军事指挥官、国家警察和其他官员寄去了投诉信，但无人回应。
“I want the Afghan government to ask why they were beating men who were innocent,” Mr. Assadullah said. But “we can’t do anything to those American soldiers. They are very far away.”
“我想让阿富汗政府问问他们为什么殴打无辜的人，”阿萨杜拉说。但“我们拿那些美国兵没办法。他们在很远的地方。”