The explosion at the checkpoint in May 2012 kicked a cloud of dust high into the sky. Afghan militia members jumped on their motorcycles and rode down to investigate, soon returning to the base with their fallen comrade in the back of a truck.
2012年5月，阿富汗一个检查站发生爆炸后腾起团团浓烟。当地民兵立刻跳上摩托车前往调查，并很快用卡车将阵亡战友的遗体运回基地。
Their search for suspects led them to a trio of itinerant scrap merchants and some villagers who had contact with them. The three men, Pashtuns who had been in town for little more than a week, eked out their living collecting junk: old car parts, empty oil drums, aluminum cans. One of the three, Assadullah, 25 — who, like many Afghans, goes by only one name — said they had risen before dawn to secure the cargo in their three-wheel motorized rickshaw and had been eating bread and drinking tea before the bomb exploded.
调查过程中，他们锁定了三个居无定所的拾荒者，以及一些跟他们有来往的村民。这三个普什图人在镇里待了一个多星期，靠着收捡破烂艰难度日，比如旧汽车零件、空油桶、铝罐。其中一个叫阿萨杜拉(Assadullah)，和许多阿富汗人一样只有一个名，25岁的他说他们天还没亮就得起来，骑着机动三轮车去收东西，炸弹爆炸前，他们正在喝茶吃饼。
The police officers entered the room in a market stall where the men were staying and began bludgeoning them — Mr. Assadullah; Muhammad Hashem, about 24; and Faisal Rehmat, about 25 — with their rifle butts. “They just started hitting us,” Mr. Assadullah recalled in an interview, “on our shoulders, on our backs, everywhere.”
警察冲进他们所在的一个市场摊位的房间里，开始用步枪的枪托用力击打他们——除了阿萨杜拉，另两人是大约24岁的穆罕默德·哈什姆(Muhammad Hashem)和25岁的法伊萨尔·雷赫马(Faisal Rehmat)。“他们上来就打，”阿萨杜拉近日接受采访时说，“打我们的肩膀，背，浑身上下都挨打。”
They bound the men’s hands with their traditional wool scarves and marched them to the outpost more than a kilometer away. “Along the road, they were beating us with stones and rifles,” Mr. Assadullah said. He added that he had seen other Afghan civilians at the base but that they had been kept separate during questioning.
他们用其传统编织围巾捆住几人的手，押送到一公里开外的岗哨。“一路上他们用石头和枪打我们，”阿萨杜拉说。他还说在基地里看到了其他阿富汗平民，不过都是分开审讯的。
The mistreatment was hardly unique for some of the police militias. From the outset of the program, the Americans running it found that some officers used their newfound power to engage in everything from petty theft and bullying to extortion rackets and killings.
对某些警察民兵来说，虐待不是什么稀罕事。负责该项目的美国人从一开始就发现，一些警察会把自己新获得的权力用在方方面面，小到盗窃和欺凌，大到敲诈和杀戮。
An American military report released in December 2011found that local police militias were illegally taxing villagers and committing assaults, yet also concluded that the militias were effective.
一份2011年12月发布的美国军方报告发现，当地警察民兵非法向村民征税，并实施人身侵犯，但同时报告也判定民兵是有实效的。
By the day of the episode in Kalach, the Americans were getting ready to move to another region with higher security needs. Just 14 American servicemen remained: six Navy SEALs, four naval support personnel and four soldiers, plus an interpreter hired through a private contractor.
在卡拉什出事那天，美国人正准备转移到一个安全需求更高的区域。只留下了14名美国军人：六名海军海豹突击队员、四名海军后勤人员和四名士兵，另外还有一名通过私人承包商雇用的翻译。
The soldiers provided security for the outpost while three of the SEALs helped question the prisoners, who were handcuffed with their arms behind them.
士兵负责岗哨的安全防卫，有三名海豹队员协助囚犯审讯，这些囚犯的手会被反铐在身后。
Sergeant Roschak and Specialist Walker stood on the roof of the meeting room, about 60 yards from where the detainees were being questioned. They and other witnesses, who had different vantage points, said there had been six to eight prisoners. The other two soldiers were on the roof of the SEALs’ barracks, about 135 yards away. “Enjoy the show,” one of the SEALs said, according to Sergeant Roschak’s statement to the N.C.I.S.
罗沙克和沃克站在会议室的屋顶上，离审讯在押人员的地方大约60码。他们和其他从不同角度目击此事的证人说，总共有六到八名囚犯。在大约135码开外的海豹营房屋顶还有两名士兵。据罗沙克对NCIS的陈述，其中一名海豹队员说，“有好戏看了。”
The three enlisted Team 2 members — David Swarts and Daniel D’Ambrosio, who were petty officers first class, and Xavier Silva, a petty officer second class — took the lead in interrogating the detainees, the soldiers told investigators. Their officer, a young lieutenant junior grade named Jason Webb, was mostly engaged elsewhere at the base, they said.
几名士兵对调查人员说，二组的三名士官——戴维·斯瓦茨(David Swarts)上士、丹尼尔·德安布罗西奥(Daniel D’Ambrosio)上士和哈维尔·席尔瓦(Xavier Silva)中士——主导了审讯。他们说，他们的上级——年轻的杰森·韦伯(Jason Webb)中尉——多数时间在基地的其他地方处理事务。
Mr. Assadullah said three Americans and an Afghan militia commander had interrogated him three times, for up to 10 minutes each time. The Americans grabbed him by the throat and kneed him in the stomach several times, he recalled, and said he would be freed if he told them who had set off the bomb. “But I didn’t know who did it,” Mr. Assadullah said.
阿萨杜拉说三名美国人和一名阿富汗民兵指挥官三次提审他，每次最多10分钟。据他的回忆，美国人多次掐着他的喉咙，用膝盖顶他的腹部，并说只要告诉他们是谁引爆了炸弹，就放他走。“但我不知道是谁干的，”阿萨杜拉说。
The soldiers told investigators that they had seen the three enlisted SEALs kick prisoners and fire handguns next to their heads; at one point, two of them forced a detainee’s legs apart so they could drop a large rock on his crotch. Three of the soldiers said that the SEALs had also dropped stones on other prisoners. One soldier recalled seeing a Team 2 member standing on a detainee’s head “maybe eight to 10 times.” In his sworn statement to investigators, he recounted, “When he would step on the guy’s head, I could see the detainee’s legs move a little.”
士兵对调查人员表示，他们曾看到三名海豹队员用脚踢囚犯并挨着他们的头部开枪。其中两名海豹队员一度还逼一名囚犯把两腿分开，以便他们能在对方的裆部扔下一块大石头。三名士兵表示，海豹队员还朝其他犯人扔石头。一名士兵回忆说，看到二组的一名队员站在一名囚犯的头上，“可能有八到十次”。他在提供给调查人员的宣誓证词中说，“当他要站到那人头上时，我能看到那个犯人的腿会动一下。”
Specialist Walker told investigators that he had seen one of the SEALs “straddling the detainee over his upper torso area and pouring water on the detainee’s head.” Another soldier told N.C.I.S. agents that he had watched as an American poured water on a detainee who was lying on his back. He said that he had not seen the water going into the man’s mouth, but that it had appeared he was choking. The process, the soldier said, was repeated with four more prisoners, including one with a cloth in his mouth.
沃克对调查人员表示，他看到一名海豹队员“跨在一名犯人的上半身上方，并往其头上泼水”。另一名士兵对NCIS的探员说，他看到一个美国人朝一个仰面躺着的囚犯泼水。他说自己没看到水进了那个犯人的嘴里，但那人好像呛着了。这名士兵说，这个过程也发生在了另外四名囚犯身上，其中一名犯人嘴里还塞着一块布。
After about two hours, by Sergeant Roschak’s estimate, the SEALs told the soldiers to stand down, saying they had the situation under control. The soldiers complied — in part, several said, because they did not want to see any more.
根据罗沙克的估计，过了大约两小时，海豹队员让士兵退下，称他们已经控制住了局面。士兵们照做了。其中几人表示，他们在一定程度上是因为看不下去了。
While the SEALs and militiamen remained suspicious of some detainees, they let them all go by midafternoon. Before setting them free, the Americans took one of the junk merchants, Mr. Hashem, who was bloody and weak from the ordeal, and placed an AK-47 across his chest for a photograph, Mr. Assadullah said. He said he figured it was because Mr. Hashem had a long beard and looked more like a Taliban fighter than anyone else.
尽管海豹突击队队员和民兵仍对一些遭受囚禁者有所怀疑，但到下午3点时，他们释放了这些人。阿萨杜拉说，放人之前，美国人抓住被折磨得浑身是血，身体虚弱的哈什姆，并把一把AK-47挂在他胸前拍照。他说他认为美国人这么做是因为哈什姆留着长胡子，看上去比其他任何人都更像塔利班武装分子。
The villagers from Kalach were told to walk in one direction and the three scrap dealers in another, up a hillside. Mr. Hashem could barely move, Mr. Assadullah recalled. He was bleeding from a gash near the top of his skull, and his back was injured from repeated blows from rocks and rifle butts.
来自卡拉什的村民被要求朝一个方向走，三名拾荒者则被要求走另一个方向。那是一条上山的路。阿萨杜拉回忆说，哈什姆勉强能走。他头顶附近有一个很深的伤口，一直在流血，背上也因为多次被石头和枪托砸到而受伤。
Mr. Hashem made it only a short distance before collapsing. Some militiamen rushed over and began hitting the three men again, Mr. Assadullah said. “ ‘Why can’t you climb? Why aren’t you climbing the mountain like we said?’ ” he recalled them asking. “I could not carry him because I was also beaten.”
哈什姆只走了一小段距离便倒下了。阿萨杜拉说，一些民兵跑过去，又开始打他们三个。他回忆说，民兵问他们，“为什么爬不了？为什么不像我们说的那样爬山？”他说，“我也没法背他，因为我也挨打了。”
After the militiamen left, Mr. Hashem showed his friends his abdomen, which was bloody and bruised. “I feel pain here, and I cannot walk,” he said, according to Mr. Assadullah.
民兵离开后，哈什姆给朋友看他流血淤紫的腹部。据阿萨杜拉称，哈什姆说，“我觉得这里痛，走不动。”
Mr. Assadullah said that some Americans — it is not clear who — had come with water and a stretcher. He and Mr. Rehmat lifted the injured man onto it, then dragged the stretcher up the dirt road, Mr. Hashem moaning with each bump. Every time they stopped, Mr. Assadullah said, someone fired at them from the base.
阿萨杜拉说，一些美国人——尚不清楚是谁——拿来了水和担架。他和雷赫马把受伤的哈什姆抬到担架上，然后拖着担架沿着那条土路往上走。每颠簸一下，哈什姆都会呻吟。阿萨杜拉说，每次一停下来，就有人从基地朝他们开枪。
Once out of sight, they paused to rest under a mulberry tree. Mr. Hashem became silent, Mr. Assadullah remembered. Soon after, he died.
一离开那些人的视线，他们就停在一棵桑树下休息。阿萨杜拉记得，那时哈什姆变得安静了。不久后，他就死了。
The two surviving junk sellers found a truck driver willing to drive them all night back to Mr. Hashem’s home village, Shamakhel. In accordance with Islamic custom, Mr. Assadullah said, a funeral and burial were quickly arranged, drawing 200 people. Mr. Hashem left behind a wife and newborn son.
活下来的另外两个拾荒者找到了一个卡车司机，对方愿意整夜开车送他们去哈什姆家所在的谢马赫尔(Shamakhel)村。阿萨杜拉说，根据伊斯兰教的风俗，很快便安排了葬礼。葬礼有200人参加。哈什姆身后留下了妻子和刚出生的儿子。