MIAMI — Like a macabre marine mystery, the carcasses — many badly deteriorated and tossing about in the surf — first turned up along the coast of New Jersey in June. Soon, droves of them washed up in Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia and most recently Florida, their winter home.
迈阿密——就像海洋暴露出了一个可怕的秘密，许多支离破碎、随海浪漂浮的海豚尸体自6月起首先出现在新泽西州海岸。不久之后，大量海豚尸体冲到弗吉尼亚、卡罗来纳、乔治亚的海滩上，最近还出现在了它们过冬的佛罗里达。
So far this year, nearly 1,000 bottlenose dolphins — eight times the historical average — have washed up dead along the Eastern Seaboard from New York to Florida, a vast majority of them victims of morbillivirus. Many more are expected to die from the disease in the coming months.
今年迄今为止，东海岸从纽约到佛罗里达已经出现了将近1000具宽吻海豚的尸体，是历史平均水平的八倍，其中绝大多数都是死于麻疹病毒。预计在未来几个月里，还会有更多的海豚会罹患这种疾病死亡。
The high death toll from the resurgence of the virus, which killed 700 dolphins in an outbreak 25 years ago, has alarmed marine scientists, who say it remains unclear why the dolphins have succumbed to the disease. The deaths, along with a spate of other unrelated dolphin die-offs along Florida’s east and west coasts, raise new questions about the health of the ocean in this part of the country and what role environmental factors may be playing, scientists said.
这种病毒曾在25年前爆发过一次，造成了700只海豚死亡，这种病毒再次爆发所带来的高致死率令海洋科学家感到惶恐，他们表示，目前还不清楚为什么海豚会死于这种疾病。科学家们说，这种死亡，以及与其无关的海豚集体死亡事件在佛罗里达东海岸和西海岸相继爆发，对这些地方的海洋健康状况，以及环境因素在这些问题上可能发挥的作用提出了一些新的问题。
“Marine mammals are very good sentinels for ocean and human health, and they really act like the proverbial canaries in a coal mine,” said Dr. Greg Bossart, a veterinary pathologist and senior vice president in charge of animal health at the Georgia Aquarium. “They give us an idea of what’s occurring in the environment.”
“对于海洋和人类健康来说，海洋哺乳动物是非常好的‘哨兵’，而它们最近的表现真的像是谚语所说的‘煤矿上的金丝雀’。”兽医病理学家格雷格·博萨尔特(Greg Bossart)博士说；他是乔治亚水族馆(Georgia Aquarium)负责动物健康的高级副馆长。“它向我们发出了关于环境状况的提示。”
Because bottlenose dolphins are top predators, have long life spans and live near shore, Dr. Bossart said, “whatever happens coastally impacts them and potentially us.”
因为宽吻海豚是最高层的掠食动物，寿命很长，生活在海岸附近，博尔萨特博士说，“所以沿海发生什么事都会影响到它们，也可能也影响到我们。”
The deaths, classified as an unusual mortality event, have puzzled scientists. They show no discernible demographic pattern, affecting dolphins that are young and old, male and female. One possible explanation is that some of those who have died this year were not alive during the first outbreak and may not be immune to the virus.
科学家们对这些海豚的死亡感到困惑，它们被归类为不寻常的死亡事件。死亡的海豚没有明显的年龄或性别趋向，不管是年幼的还是年长的，雌海豚还是雄海豚，都受到了影响。一个可能的解释是，今年死亡海豚中有一些在这种病毒第一次爆发时尚未出生，因此对它可能没有免疫力。
In Florida, the situation is particularly dire, with dolphins facing a triple threat this year. Nearly 80 dolphins who live permanently in the state’s ecologically compromised Indian River Lagoon estuary on the east coast have died. An additional 233 perished in the northern Gulf of Mexico this year. Both of those events have also been labeled unusual mortality events by the federal government.
在佛罗里达州，情况尤为严重，那里的海豚今年面临着三重威胁。该州东海岸印第安河泻湖河口的生态遭到破坏，将近80只永久居住在这里的海豚已经死亡。在墨西哥湾北部，今年还有另外233只海豚死亡。这两起事件也都被联邦政府归为不寻常死亡事件。
The causes of death appear to be unrelated; each group of dolphins faces separate challenges that in some cases remain scientifically murky — disease, a polluted environment, infection and possible residue from the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010.
死因似乎各不相关；每一群海豚都面临着不同的问题——疾病、环境污染、感染，以及英国石油公司(BP)钻油平台“深水地平线”(Deepwater Horizon)2010年漏油事件可能残留下来的物质。还有的问题究竟是什么，科学还不能解释。
“It is alarming when you see so many different die-offs of marine mammals going on at once,” said Erin Fougeres, a marine mammal biologist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s fisheries service, which is tracking and investigating the deaths. “We can’t say they are linked. But it says there are a lot of challenges that marine mammals are facing.”
“这么多不同的海洋哺乳动物集体死亡事件同时出现，这令人震惊，”海洋哺乳动物生物学家艾琳·富热尔(Erin Fougeres)说，她受雇于跟踪调查这些死亡事件的美国国家海洋和大气管理局(National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)渔业服务部门。“我们不能肯定这些事件之间存在着联系。但它表明海洋哺乳动物面临着许多挑战。”
There is little scientists can do to stop the airborne virus, which cannot be spread to humans. During the last outbreak, the virus killed off dolphins for 10 months, which means that this time, dolphins may continue to die through May. The dolphins infect one another by expelling air through their blowholes.
人类不会传染上这种病毒，它靠空气传播，但科学家几乎无力阻止它的传播。上次这种病毒爆发时，海豚死亡事件持续了10个月之久，也就意味着，本轮爆发可能会持续到明年5月。海豚通过气孔排出空气的时候，就可能将这种病毒相互传播。
In the meantime, other threats remain, chief among them the possibility that the virus could spread to Gulf Coast dolphins and the already vulnerable population in the Indian River Lagoon.
与此同时，其他威胁也仍然存在，其中最主要的一个可能是这种病毒会蔓延到居住在墨西哥湾的海豚群，以及本来就已十分脆弱的印第安河泻湖海豚群。
“The results could be catastrophic,” said Stephen D. McCulloch, the program manager for marine mammal research at Florida Atlantic University’s Harbor Branch, adding that “there is some degree of coastal interaction between dolphins in the inlets.”
“结果可能是灾难性的，”斯蒂芬·D·麦卡洛克(Stephen D. McCulloch)说，他是佛罗里达大西洋大学(Florida Atlantic University)海港分支海洋哺乳动物研究项目的负责人。“在沿海的水湾，海豚之间存在一定程度的互动。”他说。
The Indian River Lagoon, a diverse estuary, has been tainted by huge algae blooms caused in part by too much nitrogen. Research on some of the dead dolphins in the estuary — 76 died this year, the third series of deaths since 2001 — has showed that some had high levels of mercury, fungal diseases, antibiotic-resistant bacteria and oral-genital tumors. The dolphins found were emaciated.
印第安河泻湖是一个物种多样的河口，已被大量繁殖的藻类污染，部分原因是水中含氮太高。今年这里有76只海豚死亡，是2001年以来的第三轮死亡爆发，研究人员在其中一些海豚尸体中发现了高浓度的汞、真菌病毒、对抗生素具有抗药性的细菌，以及口腔、生殖器肿瘤。在死前，这些海豚的身体变得很衰弱。
“You have to think, ‘Where does antibiotic-resistant bacteria come from in dolphins?’ ” said Dr. Bossart, who is involved in a long-term study of the Indian River Lagoon dolphins. “One thought is that it comes from environmental pollution.”
“你必须要考虑，‘这些海豚身体里对抗生素具有抗药性的细菌是从哪里来的？’”参与了印第安河泻湖海豚长期研究的博尔萨特博士说。“一种可能是来自于环境污染。”
Scientists are monitoring the areas below Brevard County on the east coast of Florida to see if morbillivirus continues its spread as the dolphins head farther south.
科学家们正在监测佛罗里达州东海岸布里瓦德县以南的区域，看看随着海豚进一步南游，麻疹病毒是否会继续传播。
On the Gulf Coast, from the Texas-Louisiana border through the Florida Panhandle, the dolphin die-off has gone on far longer, a phenomenon that scientists have been unable to fully explain. Since the first deaths nearly four years ago, more than 1,000 dolphins have died. The deaths initially began in Lake Pontchartrain in Louisiana in February 2010, before the BP oil spill. The spill added other possible causes for the high rate of dolphin deaths.
在墨西哥湾沿岸，从德克萨斯州和路易斯安那州的边界到整个佛罗里达走廊，海豚集体死亡事件持续的时间更长，科学家们一直无法彻底解释这种现象。将近四年前第一例死亡发生之后，已经有1000多只海豚死亡。最早的死亡事件发生在英国石油公司漏油事件之前的2010年2月，在路易斯安那州的庞恰特雷恩湖。漏油事件带来了其他问题，可能推高了海豚的死亡率。
Gulf Coast states and the federal government are still investigating the impact of the oil spill in the region, and scientists cannot yet say why the dolphins are dying. So far, it appears that toxins or morbillivirus are not the primary cause.
墨西哥湾沿岸各州以及联邦政府仍在调查漏油事件对该地区的影响，科学家们还无法解释海豚为什么会持续死亡。迄今为止，毒素或麻疹病毒似乎都不是主要原因。
“We can’t conclusively say what role oil played at this time,” Ms. Fougeres said. “But the event is pretty unprecedented in terms of how long the die-off has been occurring and how many have died as part of that event.”
“石油究竟扮演了什么样的角色，我们现在还没法下结论。”富热尔说。“但是，从海豚集体死亡事件发生的持续时间以及相关的死亡数量来看，这样的情况可以说是前所未有。”