The day after the detainee episode, the Taliban began threatening reprisal attacks over the radio, Sergeant Roschak told investigators. He inquired about the threats with the deputy commander of the Afghan Local Police, who responded, “The A.L.P. and SEAL guys beat that guy, and he died.”
罗沙克上士对调查人员表示，囚禁事件后的第二天，塔利班便开始在广播上威胁说要发动报复性的袭击。他向阿富汗地方警察部队的副指挥官打听过有关威胁的事情。对方回应称，“阿富汗地方警察部队和海豹突击队的人打过那个人，那人后来死了。”
Sergeant Roschak went to two of the SEALs. “ ‘Tell your guys not to talk to anyone about what happened outside of this camp,’ ” one of them responded, the sergeant said in his statement. “ ‘You know, no one needs to know we were involved. Just say an I.E.D. went off, and one A.L.P. guy died; we sent A.L.P. to check it out, but they didn’t find anything.’ ”
罗沙克找到其中两名海豹队员。他在证词中说，其中一人回应称，“‘让你们的人不要在营地外和任何人说发生的事情。你也知道，谁都不需要知道我们和这件事有关。就说一个简易爆炸装置爆炸了，导致阿富汗地方警察部队的一名成员死亡。我们派阿富汗地方警察部队去调查，但他们一无所获。’”
Worried, the soldiers kept quiet. “The next few days became very uncomfortable,” Sergeant Roschak told investigators. “It was difficult to get any type of privacy on the phone and on the computers.”
感到担心的士兵们保持沉默。“接下来的几天变得特别不好过，”罗沙克对调查人员说。“很难在电话和电脑上保留任何形式的隐私。”
The Americans withdrew from the Kalach outpost two days later, on June 3, 2012, to a larger base at Tirin Kot, the provincial capital. In an email, Sergeant Roschak alerted his superior, writing, “My squad is being involved in a cover-up regarding the possible killing of detainees.”
两天后，也就是2012年6月3日，美国人从卡拉什村的基地撤至省会塔林科特一处更大的基地。罗沙克给他的上级发了一封电子邮件，提醒对方注意。他在邮件中写道，“我所在的分队正在帮助掩盖可能有囚犯被害身亡的事情。”
Cmdr. Mike Hayes, the officer in charge of SEAL Team 2 and head of a Special Operations task force in southeastern Afghanistan, took quick action after learning of the claims. He called in the Naval Criminal Investigative Service and ordered the four accused SEALs’ guns taken away.
获悉相关说法后，海豹突击队二组负责人、一支在阿富汗东南部活动的特遣部队的首领迈克·哈耶斯(Mike Hayes)中校迅速采取行动。他召集海军刑事调查局(Naval Criminal Investigative Service)，并下令收缴那四名被指控的海豹队员的枪只。
The soldiers were moved to a nearby base, where they were questioned by two N.C.I.S. investigators and gave closely matching sworn statements. The four Team 2 members asked for lawyers and declined to speak to investigators.
几个陆军士兵被转移到了附近的一个基地。在那里，他们接受了NCIS两名调查人员的讯问，并给出了相当一致的宣誓证词。二组的那四名成员要求见律师，并拒绝和调查人员说话。
The N.C.I.S. agents reviewed the classified report that the SEALs had filed about the bomb at the checkpoint. It did not mention any detainees or that they had been mistreated.
来自NCIS探员查看了海豹队员就检查站发生爆炸一事提交的机密报告。报告未提到任何囚犯或他们受到了虐待的情况。
Two Navy personnel from the outpost backed up the accounts of abuse in part, blaming the Afghan militia but also describing some mistreatment by the SEALs. A Seabee, a member of the Naval Construction Forces, told investigators that he had seen a Team 2 member firing his pistol near a detainee’s head. A Navy medic said he had seen a different member drag a prisoner by a scarf around his neck.
来自该基地的两名海军人员在一定程度上支持了虐待言论。他们将此事归咎于阿富汗民兵，但也说到了海豹队员的一些虐待行为。海军工兵部队（Naval Construction Forces，其成员被称作海蜂[Seabee]）的一名成员对调查人员表示，他看到二组的一名成员挨着一名囚犯的头开枪。一名海军医疗兵称他看到二组的另一名成员拽着一名犯人脖子上的围巾，把犯人拖着走。
A Navy intelligence specialist said he had seen no abuse by American personnel, adding that only he and one of the SEALs had questioned the detainees. “At no point did I observe any U.S. personnel punch, kick, strike or act inappropriately towards any of the detained persons,” he told the investigators. The soldiers said in their statements to the N.C.I.S. that the intelligence specialist had left the scene as the abuse began.
一名海军情报技术兵说他没看到美方人员的虐待行为，并接着表示审讯囚犯的只有他和其中一名海豹队员。“在此期间，我完全没有看到任何美国人对任何囚犯做出了拳打脚踢、撞击或其他不当行为，”他对调查人员说。士兵们在给NCIS的证词中表示，虐待开始时，那名情报技术兵已经离开现场了。
Two of the SEALs who were present but not implicated in abuse said they had been focused on watching for security threats and had not seen their comrades mistreating detainees. One said he thought the shots fired might have been general warning shots.
两名在现场但未参与虐待的海豹队员表示，他们的重点是留意安全威胁，没看到同伴虐待囚犯。一人表示，他当时以为开枪之举可能是普通的鸣枪示警。
The other told investigators that he had seen cases of water being brought to the interrogation area but did not know “if any of the detainees got any water.” He also described how one detainee kept lying on his side. “When I got to him, I shoved him with my foot to get his attention,” he said. “This happened five or six times in a row.”
另一人对调查人员表示，他看到几箱水被带到了审讯区，但不知道“是否有犯人被泼水了”。他还描述了一名囚犯保持侧躺的情形。“走近他后，为了引起他的注意我用脚推了他一下，”他说。“这个动作连续做了五六次。”
The group’s interpreter first told investigators he had seen abuses by the Afghan police, but none by the SEALs. In a later sworn statement, he said he had seen one of the SEALs “put his foot on one of the prisoners’ stomach.” He had been reticent initially, he told the N.C.I.S. agents, because he “was afraid of getting hurt from the guys on the SEAL team.”
这群人的翻译先是对调查人员说，他看到了阿富汗警察的虐待行为，但没看到海豹队员的虐待行为。但在后来的宣誓证词中，他说自己看到其中一名海豹队员“把脚放在一名犯人的腹部”。他对NCIS探员表示，他起初有所保留，因为“害怕会受到海豹队员的伤害”。
On June 26, 2012, Commander Hayes sent the accused men back to Little Creek, Va., where Team 2 is based, for his superiors to handle the disciplinary proceedings. Navy investigators traveled to the former base at Kalach on Aug. 13, more than two months after the episode, and interviewed four Afghans who were brought to them by the same local police unit accused of committing the abuses. Afghan officials said they had not investigated the suspected mistreatment of detainees by the police.
2012年6月26日，哈耶斯把受到指控的相关人员送回了二组的总部所在地弗吉尼亚州小溪，以便他的上司就此展开纪律审查程序。8月13日，这一事件过去两个月之后，海军调查人员去了卡拉什村的旧基地，并就此事和四名阿富汗展开谈话。而把那四个人带到他们面前的，正是那支被控不当行为的地方警察部队。阿富汗官员称他们并未对警察涉嫌虐待囚犯一事展开调查。
One of the Afghan militiamen corroborated the soldiers’ story. He said he had “observed the detainees being assaulted by A.L.P. and U.S. personnel,” according to the report, with the police using “stones and sticks” and the Americans “yelling, slapping and kicking.” He said he believed Mr. Hashem’s death had been caused by the Afghan abuse, which was harsher, but noted that he had only observed a few minutes of questioning.
其中一名阿富汗民兵证实了前文中士兵的说法。据报告称，这个民兵表示他“注意到阿富汗地方警察部队和美方的人员攻击囚犯”，警察用的是“石头和棍棒”，美国人“一边大喊大叫，一边打耳光和踢人”。他说他认为哈什姆的死，是阿富汗人的虐待造成的，因为阿富汗人的虐待行为更严重。但他指出，他只看了几分钟的审讯过程。
A local shopkeeper, the only detainee among the witnesses gathered by the police, described being taken to the small outpost along with his nephew, a farmer and another merchant. He told investigators that the police militiamen, but not the Americans, had assaulted him and the other detainees with stones. “He observed the dead body after the assault,” the N.C.I.S. report said.
警方召集起来的目击证人中只有一名被囚人员，他是当地一家店铺的老板。他描述了自己和侄儿、一个农民及另外一名店主被带去那个小基地的情形。他对调查人员表示，用石头攻击他和其他囚犯的是警察民兵，而非美国人。“攻击结束后，他发现了遗体，”NCIS的报告说。
Two of the accused, Lieutenant Webb and Petty Officer Swarts, declined to comment when reached by phone. Another, Petty Officer D’Ambrosio, did not respond to messages seeking comment. Petty Officer Silva said only, “If you knew what it was like on the ground, it would look different.”
被指控的人中，韦布和斯沃茨两人接到电话后均拒绝发表评论，德安布罗西奥未回复请其置评的信息，席尔瓦只表示，“如果你知道当地那时的实际情况，就会产生不同看法。”