The small base at Kalach was just a speck in Afghanistan’s rugged terrain, dwarfed by the mountains behind it. The stone wall surrounding the outpost was barely chest-high, offering little protection from a Taliban attack. The objective was to get Americans close to the people they were training, instead of living behind high blast walls and shiny razor wire like most of the troops in the United States-led coalition in Afghanistan.
这个位于卡拉什的小型基地，在阿富汗高低起伏的国土上有如弹丸，周边的山脉使其显得更加渺小。该军事基地的石墙勉强有齐胸高，基本无法防御塔利班的袭击。 这么做是为了拉近美国士兵与他们训练的当地武装的距离，而不是像大部分以美国为首的驻阿富汗盟军一样，住在高耸的防爆墙和明晃晃的铁丝网里。
The outpost was set up by Green Berets, the Army Special Forces troops who recruited the Afghan Local Police. The militia program had become a crucial element of the American strategy to win over villagers and undercut the Taliban. The emphasis on counterinsurgency, as the strategy was known, aligned with the skills of the Green Berets, who were trained to wage guerrilla campaigns by working with irregular militias and supporting local communities.
该基地是由招募阿富汗地方警察的美国陆军特种部队(Army Special Forces)设立的，陆军特种部队又称“绿色贝雷帽”(Green Berets)。培养民兵组织的计划，在美国赢得村民支持、削弱塔利班势力的战略中，已经成为了一个关键要素。这种强调反叛乱战略的做法符合绿色贝雷帽的技能，他们接受的训练是，通过与非正规的民兵组织合作并支持当地社区，来开展游击战。
The Navy’s nine SEAL teams, in contrast, typically conduct capture-and-kill missions and train militaries and counterterrorism forces in other countries. In a place like Kalach, “you need a combination of T.E. Lawrence, John Rambo and the Verizon guy,” said Scott Mann, a former Green Beret who helped design what were known as village stability operations in Afghanistan. “There’s a lot of the Special Ops community that would much rather shoot somebody in the face than do this kind of work.”
相比之下，海军的九支海豹突击队通常实施捕杀任务，训练其他国家的正规军和反恐部队。在卡拉什这样的地方，“你需要将T·E·劳伦斯(T. E. Lawrence)、约翰·兰博(John Rambo)、维修技工这三种角色结合起来，”前绿色贝雷帽成员斯科特·曼恩(Scott Mann)说。“有很多特种部队宁愿承担面对面交火的任务，也不愿做这种工作。”曼恩帮助拟定了被称为阿富汗村庄稳定行动的计划。
Kalach lies in a belt of territory in Oruzgan Province that separates Afghanistan’s central highlands — dominated by members of the Hazara ethnic group, Shiite Muslims who were brutally repressed under Taliban rule — from the southern heartland of the Pashtuns, the predominantly Sunni Muslim ethnic group from which the Taliban draws almost all its support. The groups live separately in Kalach, a village of several thousand people, and the volunteers for the militia were all Hazara, a problem the Green Berets were eager to fix.
卡拉什位于乌鲁兹甘省，该城所处的地带一面是阿富汗的中央高原，一面是南部普什图地区的腹地。中央高原由哈扎拉族控制，这些什叶派穆斯林在塔利班统治之下受到了残酷镇压。而普什图人则主要信仰逊尼派，塔利班得到的几乎全部支持，大都来自这个族群。在有几千人的卡拉什，这两个族群居住的区域是分开的，但民兵组织的志愿者都是哈扎拉人，这是绿色贝雷帽急于解决的问题。
“The villagers asked me to talk to the Americans,” said Hajji Muhammadzai, a Pashtun mullah. The Green Berets promised to build schools, roads, bridges and a clinic in return for help recruiting local police officers, Mullah Muhammadzai recalled. Even though the Green Berets found no takers among the Pashtuns, the soldiers addressed the elders with respect, drank tea with them and tried to sway them through persuasion rather than threats, he said in an interview.
“村民们要我与美国人谈一谈，”普什图族毛拉哈吉·穆罕默德扎伊(Hajji Muhammadzai)说。穆罕默德扎伊回忆道，绿色贝雷帽承诺会建造学校、道路、桥梁和诊所，以此回报居民对招募地方警察的帮助。他接受采访时表示，尽管绿色贝雷帽没有在普什图人中获得支持，但士兵们尊重长者，与他们一起喝茶，试图通过劝说而不是威胁来改变他们的立场。
An infantry squad that included Specialist Walker, the Army medic, arrived at the outpost shortly before Christmas in 2011. With broad shoulders and blond hair — his nickname was Thor — Specialist Walker could not have looked more foreign to Afghans. But he forged a relationship with the father of a boy whom he was treating for leukemia, and the man continued to drop by the clinic after his son’s death, sometimes passing on information such as when Taliban spotters were watching the outpost. The soldiers also got to know the militiamen, teaching them how to use their weapons and repel the Taliban. There were shared feasts, even a snowball fight.
陆军军医沃克所在的步兵分队在2011年圣诞节前不久抵达该基地。肩膀宽阔、头发金色的沃克——昵称托尔(Thor)——对于阿富汗人来说，是一名再明显不过的外国人。但他与自己收治的白血病男孩的父亲建立了联系。男孩死后，他的父亲仍旧会来诊所，有时传达一些消息，比如塔利班的探子何时会来监视基地。士兵们也认识了这些民兵，教他们如何使用武器，击退塔利班。他们聚餐同乐，甚至还过打雪仗。
But the Green Berets rotated out in early 2012 and were replaced by a detachment from SEAL Team 2, whose men had been deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan over the years for operations targeting militants. Other members of the team were scattered across villages beyond Kalach.
但2012年轮换时，绿色贝雷帽调走，海豹突击队第二分队旗下的一个分遣队取而代之。多年来，第二分队的成员被部署到伊拉克和阿富汗，开展针对武装分子的行动。其他成员分布在卡拉什以外的一些村庄。
“We had to fill so many emerging requirements with units that weren’t necessarily as prepared as they could have been,” said Mr. Mann, the former Green Beret. “There’s a whole mind-set and training curriculum that goes with Green Berets that’s radically different from Navy SEALs.”
“我们需要满足很多新要求，而这些部队的准备未必那么充分，”前绿色贝雷帽成员曼恩说。“绿色贝雷帽的整体思维方式和训练科目与海豹突击队截然不同。”
The change in tone was soon apparent. Staff Sgt. David Roschak, the Army squad leader at Kalach, said the new arrivals assumed “anyone near the base was, or linked to, the Taliban.” Some of the Team 2 members saw their job as killing enemies, not making friends, he and other soldiers said in interviews.
态度的转变很快就显露出来。驻卡拉什的陆军分队队长戴维·罗沙克(David Roschak)上士表示，新来的人员认为“基地附近的人都是塔利班，或与塔利班有关的人员”。罗沙克及其他士兵接受采访时表示，第二分队的一些成员认为，他们的工作是打死敌人，而不是交朋友。
Several seemed absorbed with the SEALs’ growing celebrity, the soldiers said: They talked about the SEAL Team 6 raid that killed Osama bin Laden, and debated whether to write books like “Lone Survivor,” the account of a SEAL who survived a disastrous mission in 2005. One night, some of them insisted that the soldiers watch a movie, “Act of Valor,” that starred active-duty SEALs.
一些士兵透露，海豹突击队日益提升的知名度似乎让一些成员很受用。他们大谈海豹突击队第六分队击毙奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的突袭行动，还争论是否应该写一本《孤独的幸存者》(Lone Survivor)那样的书，该书的讲述者是海豹突击队成员，在2005年一场灾难性的行动中得以生还。一天晚上，海豹突击队的一些成员坚持让士兵们观看由海豹突击队现役队员出演的电影《勇者行动》(Act of Valor)。
Serious discipline issues emerged, according to the soldiers. Apparently bored by the routine of life on the small outpost, several of the SEALs began using their weapons for sport. One shot his pistol wildly at a kitten under the ammunition shed, the soldiers said; anyone at the small base, then full of people, could have been hit by a ricochet. Another pulled a handgun on a soldier in the base gym, apparently as a joke.
据这些士兵透露，出现了严重的纪律问题。海豹突击队的几名队员似乎厌倦了这座小型基地里的惯常生活，开始用武器玩乐。这些士兵表示，一名队员用手枪向弹药房下的小猫胡乱开枪；基地里当时满是人，任何人都可能被弹开的子弹打中。另一名队员在基地健身房里，拔出枪对准了一名士兵，仿佛是在开玩笑。
“They were very sloppy, very boisterous: ‘We’re here to destroy everything,’ ” Specialist Walker said. In a situation with “a gun battle every day, that’s perfect,” he continued. But “we’re here to train people, assist, not there to gag ’em and bag ’em.”
“他们非常散漫、吵闹：‘我们来这儿是要摧毁一切’，”沃克说。“在每天一场枪战的情况下，这样蛮好的，”他继续说道。“但我们来这儿是为了训练人员、帮助民众，而不是为了抓人杀人。”
Afghans described in interviews how the new group of Americans would shoot at the ground around farmers in wheat fields and almond groves near the base, or on the road to the market. A few times, they shot at trucks moving along a ridgeline. “They weren’t trying to kill anyone,” Mr. Gizabe, the Kalach elder, said. “They were toying with them, I think.”
阿富汗人接受采访时称，新来的美国兵会朝着麦田里农民周围的土地、基地附近的扁桃树林、通往市场的道路开枪。他们有几次还朝着沿山脊线行驶的卡车射击。“他们不是想杀谁，”卡拉什村的吉扎比说。“我觉得他们是在逗乐。”
The tenor of the meetings between the Americans and the elders changed, too, villagers said. The SEALs often shouted at the Afghans; when they disagreed, several elders recounted in interviews, the SEALs sometimes grabbed them by their shirts, lifted them off the ground and cocked their arms back as if preparing to hit them. “Each and every time we went to their base, we feared we would not come back out,” Mullah Muhammadzai said.
村民们表示，美国人与村中长者开会的氛围也发生了改变。海豹突击队队员经常对阿富汗人大喊大叫；几名长者接受采访时回忆道，当他们提出异议时，海豹突击队的队员有时会揪住他们的衣服，把他们从地面上拽起来，并将他们的双臂扣到身后，似乎准备要揍他们。“每次去基地的时候，我们都担心回不来了，”毛拉穆罕默德扎伊说。
According to Specialist Walker, one Team 2 member grew annoyed with the repeated visits of the man whose child had died of leukemia. Specialist Walker found the father one day with two missing teeth, a scraped lip and a contusion that ran from under his left eye down to his jaw. The man, he said, told him that the American had punched him in the face.
据沃克透露，那名死于白血病的孩子的父亲由于经常来诊所，让第二分队的一名成员颇为厌烦。沃克有一天发现，这名父亲少了两颗牙，嘴唇有擦伤，而且从左眼下方到下巴一片淤青。他表示，那名男子告诉他，自己的脸被那个美国士兵打了。