BUSAN, South Korea — It was an autumn day 31 years ago. I was a high school freshman, excited about the field trip. After taking the train to the southern tip of the Korean Peninsula to the harbor city of Mokpo, my classmates and I boarded a ferry en route to Jeju Island, the same place the Sewol was headed on April 16 when it sank, leaving more than 300 people presumed dead, scores of them schoolchildren.
韩国釜山——那是31年前的一个秋日，我当时是一名高一学生，正在为实地考察旅行而兴奋。在乘火车抵达半岛南端的港口城市木浦之后，我和同学们登上了一艘驶往济州岛的渡轮。4月16日沉没的“世越号”（Sewol，旧译“岁月号”）就是要前往那里，据推测沉船事故导致300多人丧生，其中有不少学生。
We were given no information about safety or evacuation procedures. I never saw life vests or lifeboats. The black ocean had its gaping maw wide open before us, but danger was not on our minds. We were young and the big ship was nothing more than a huge playground to us.
我们当时没有得到安全或疏散流程相关的信息。我从未见到救生衣或救生艇。漆黑一片的海洋在我们面前张开大口，可我们根本就不知危险为何物。我们正当青春，大船对我们来说不过是一个巨大的游乐场。
The banner hanging over the school gate where we gathered for the trip read, “For the Creation of an Advanced Fatherland.” Chun Doo-hwan, the military dictator at the time, proclaimed his intention to make South Korea an advanced nation every time he spoke, and as a result, this slogan was plastered everywhere.
在我们集合出发的校门上方悬挂着一条横幅，上面写道“为建设先进的祖国而努力”。当时的军事独裁者全斗焕(Chun Doo-hwan)每次发言时，都要宣称他决心把韩国建设成现代国家，于是这条标语被贴得到处都是。
After a long period of hardship under imperialism, civil war and division, the drive to become a modern nation was something akin to a national religion. Most South Koreans, myself included, believed that the manufacturing and selling of products that the West wanted was our ticket to modernity.
在经历了漫长而艰苦的殖民统治、内战和分裂之后，成为现代国家的期许就像是一种国教。包括我在内的大多数韩国人都认为，制造和销售西方青睐的产品，是我们实现现代化的入场券。
Just as Chun Doo-hwan promised, the South Korean economy took off. In 1988, we were host to the Summer Olympics in Seoul. The eastern coast, where once only fishermen had lived, was transformed into an enormous shipyard. Hyundai started making automobiles and Samsung started making televisions.
一如全斗焕所承诺的，韩国经济起飞了。1988年，我们在汉城举办了夏季奥运会(Summer Olympics)。过去只有渔民居住的东部沿海，转变成了恢宏的造船厂，现代(Hyundai)开始制造汽车，三星(Samsung)开始制造电视机。
South Koreans’ sense of national pride soared. When traveling abroad, we would be greeted by ads for South Korean products the moment we stepped foot outside a foreign airport. We became one of the world’s top 10 trading nations. Our soccer team represented Asia in consecutive World Cups. South Korean films played in theaters around the globe.
韩国人民族自豪感高涨。出国旅游时，一走出外国的机场，迎面就会见到韩国产品的广告。我们的贸易额跻身全球前十，我们的足球队代表亚洲接连参加了多届世界杯(World Cup)，全球各地的影院都在放映韩国电影。
The Sewol tragedy has called into question all of these great achievements. Many South Koreans have begun to wonder if the unfettered growth — and the lax government regulation that accompanied it — has come at too high a price.
所有这些巨大的成就，都因“世越号”的悲剧而受到质疑。许多韩国人开始怀疑，这种不受束缚的增长，以及与之相伴的松懈政府监管，已经让韩国付出了太高的代价。
To outsiders, the Sewol disaster may seem like another tragedy that we will inevitably overcome. But here in South Korea, it feels like the country may never be the same again. It has traumatized our national psyche and undercut our self-image.
对外界而言，“世越号”海难或许只是另外一场悲剧，我们一定能够克服。然而在韩国，人们的感受是，这个国家或许再也不是原来的样子了。这场海难让韩国的民族精神遭受了重创，弱化了韩国人的自我形象。
We are awash in self-reflection. Has all of our progress been a facade? Are we, in fact, an advanced country? One inconsolable parent put it best on the cover of a national weekly: “Is this what we call a nation?”
我们深深地陷入了自我反省之中。我们所有的进步都只是表象吗？我们真的是先进国家吗？在一家全国性周刊的封面报道中，一名伤心欲绝的家长提出了最一针见血的反省：“这就是我们所谓的国家吗？”
It’s difficult to find meaning in a tragedy of this proportion — which was a preventable accident — especially when emotions are still so raw, but there are some practical lessons to be learned.
从如此深重的悲剧中很难寻找意义，尤其是在人们的情绪依然如此猛烈的时刻——这是一场可以预防的事故。不过，我们还是能吸取一些实际的教训。
According to many news reports, the Sewol was carrying more than three times its legal limit of cargo, and with that load improperly secured to the decks, the boat tilted and sank, taking with it with hundreds of passengers.
许多新闻报道披露，由于“世越号”装载的货物达到了法定载货量的三倍多，再加上货物在甲板上并没有妥善固定，船只发生倾斜并沉没，同时多去了船上数百名乘客的性命。
The captain appears to have violated procedure by leaving the ship in command of a young and inexperienced mate during his break. No more than two of the 44 lifeboats on board the ship were deployed as the ship sank, and the necessary safety protocols either weren’t followed or never existed. Crew members ordered passengers over the intercom to stay in their cabins when they should have been ordering an evacuation.
船长似乎违反了规程，在休息期间把船交给了一名缺乏经验的年轻船副驾驶。船沉没时，船上的44艘救生艇里，只有不超过两艘投入了使用。船员要么没有遵守必要的安全规程，要么规程根本就不存在。船员通过内部通话系统命令乘客待在自己的舱室里，但当时他们本应下令疏散。
Like many South Koreans, I’m furious that the senior crew members, including the captain, were among the first people to escape from the sinking ship.
头一批逃离沉船的人就有包括船长在内的高级船员，这让我怒不可遏，其他许多韩国人也是如此。
Other South Koreans with the responsibility of taking care of passengers acted completely differently from the crew of the Sewol when faced with an emergency.
在面对紧急情况时，有责任照顾乘客的另一些韩国人的表现，与“世越号”上的船员完全不同。
Last July, the crew of Asiana Airlines Flight 214, which crash-landed in San Francisco, stayed aboard the aircraft until the end and heroically guided their passengers to safety. Female flight attendants carried injured male passengers on their backs off the burning airplane.
去年7月，韩亚航空公司(Asiana Airlines)的214航班在旧金山降落时坠机，当时机组人员一直待在机上，直到最后一刻，他们英勇地把乘客引导到了安全的地方。女乘务员们背着受伤的男乘客，逃离了着火的飞机。
What was the difference between these two groups? Rigorous training.
这两组人员之间有何区别？区别就在于严格的培训。
Asiana and Korean Air are both well-known for the exhaustive safety training their flight crews receive. New crew members must go through several weeks of safety training on an aircraft simulator, practicing emergency evacuations, water landings, fire safety protocols and emergency medical treatment. The airlines enforce mandatory annual refresher courses for their flight crews.
韩亚航空和大韩航空(Korean Air)均以机组人员受过全面周密的培训而著称。新的机组成员必须在飞行模拟器上接受长达数周的安全培训，进行紧急疏散、水上着陆、消防安全规程和紧急治疗演练。航空公司会强制机组人员参加公司规定的年度进修培训课。
By contrast, throughout all of last year, Chonghaejin Marine Company, the owner and operator of the Sewol, only spent about $520 on safety education for its employees. (Their entertainment expenses, on the other hand, were about $59,000.) Surviving crew members spoke of having to consult the emergency manual as the ship was going down.
相比之下，去年一整年，“世越号”的船东和经营方清海镇海运公司(Chonghaejin Marine Company)在员工安全教育上只投入了大约520美元（约合3240元人民币；另一方面，他们的招待费大约为5.9万美元）。幸存的船员提到，当船下沉时，他们不得不查阅应急手册。
But the lack of training is only partly to blame for the Sewol disaster. Poor government oversight of the shipping industry was also a factor, which explains much of the anger among South Koreans for President Park Geun-hye, whose approval ratings are dropping fast.
不过，“世越号”海难只能部分归咎于培训的不足，政府对航运业的监管失当也是一个因素。韩国人对总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的愤怒，大部分可以藉此得到解释，她的支持率正在迅速下降。
The government, it turns out, has been neglecting safety regulations for passenger ships and did not mandate safety education requirements for the crews of passenger ships. As a result of the Sewol sinking, several current and former officials from a maritime inspection have come under investigation.
事实证明，政府对客轮的安全监管一直疏忽，也没有规定客船船员应接受安全教育。“世越号”沉没的一个后果是，一家海事监管机构的几名现任和前任官员受到了调查。
Ferry crews must have much more stringent training requirements. The coast guard should conduct periodic surprise inspections to check the crews’ knowledge of safety procedures and to confirm that all of the safety equipment is in good working order. And the government should drastically step up its maritime inspection regime.
必须对渡轮船员实行更严厉的培训规定。海岸警卫队应该时常进行突击检查，检查船员掌握的安全规程知识，确认所有的安全设施都运转良好。政府应大力加强海事监察体制。