WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump dispatched his C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, over Easter to lay the groundwork for a summit meeting between Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump, people briefed on the secret trip said on Tuesday.
佛罗里达州西棕榈滩——据知情人士透露，复活节期间，特朗普总统派中央情报局(C.I.A.)局长迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)与朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)会面，为金正恩及特朗普之间的峰会奠定基础。
Mr. Trump alluded to Mr. Pompeo’s mission here on Tuesday when he said that the United States was in direct talks with North Korea at “extremely high levels,” and that the White House was looking at five sites for a potential meeting of the leaders.
周二，特朗普在这里隐晦地提到了庞皮欧的任务，他说美国与朝鲜展开了“极高层的”直接对话，还说白宫在考察两位领导人会面的五个可能地点。
The White House has used intelligence, rather than diplomatic channels, to communicate with North Korea, ever since last month, when Mr. Trump unexpectedly accepted Mr. Kim’s invitation to meet. The Washington Post first reported Mr. Pompeo’s trip.
自上个月特朗普出人意料地接受金正恩的会面邀请以来，白宫一直利用情报渠道而非外交渠道与朝鲜进行沟通。《华盛顿邮报》是第一家报道庞皮欧之行的媒体。
Mr. Pompeo, other officials said, has already been dealing with North Korean representatives through a channel that runs between the C.I.A. and its North Korean counterpart, the Reconnaissance General Bureau. And he has been in close touch with the director of South Korea’s National Intelligence Service, Suh Hoon, who American officials said brokered Mr. Kim’s invitation to Mr. Trump.
其他官员说，庞皮欧一直在通过一个中央情报局和朝鲜情报机构侦查总局(Reconnaissance General Bureau)之间的渠道与朝鲜代表打交道。而且他一直与韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)院长徐薰(Suh Hoon)联系密切，美国官员表示，徐薰是金正恩邀请特朗普的中间人。
广告Mr. Trump also said he would give his blessing to North and South Korea to “discuss the end of the war” when the leaders of those countries meet later this month, opening the door to a peace treaty that would replace the armistice that halted the Korean War in 1953.
特朗普还表示，当朝韩两国领导人本月晚些时候会面时，他会支持两国“讨论终结战争”，为一项将替代停战协议的和平协定敞开了大门，停战协议在1953年暂停了朝鲜战争。
Mr. Trump’s statements, which came as he welcomed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to his oceanfront estate, was fresh evidence of a diplomatic thaw underway on the Korean Peninsula, and made a once-unthinkable encounter between him and Mr. Kim far more likely.
特朗普是在欢迎日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)抵达其海滨别墅时做出上述声明的，这一声明是朝鲜半岛上外交解冻新的证据，并且提升了他与金正恩会面的可能性，而那在过去曾经是难以想象的。
The president did not specify who in his administration was talking to North Korea, nor did he give any hint of the sites under consideration — adding to the aura of mystery that has enveloped this potential meeting ever since Mr. Trump unexpectedly accepted Mr. Kim’s invitation last month.
特朗普没有说明他的政府中哪些人在与朝鲜对话，也没有给出正在考虑的会面地点的任何提示——这增加了自上个月特朗普出人意料地接受金正恩邀请以来，笼罩着这场潜在会面的神秘气氛。
A peace treaty with North Korea would greatly increase pressure to ease economic sanctions on the North and to withdraw American troops from the Korean Peninsula. It would also complicate the already tangled diplomacy in East Asia.
一项与朝鲜签订的和平协定，将意味着放松对朝鲜制裁、从朝鲜半岛撤回美国部队的必要性大大增加，还会使东亚已经乱成一团的外交变得更加复杂。
In his meeting with Mr. Abe, however, Mr. Trump projected optimism. He described North Korea in language worlds away from the speech he gave last November in Seoul, when he called it cruel and barbaric, “the results of a tragic experiment in a laboratory of history.”
然而，在与安倍的会面中，特朗普做出了积极的预测。他用来描述朝鲜的语言与其去年11月在首尔呈天壤之别，去年11月，他称朝鲜残暴且野蛮，“是历史实验室里一次悲剧的试验”。
“I really believe there’s a lot of good will,” Mr. Trump said. “They do respect us. We are respectful of them.”
“我真的相信有很多善意，”特朗普说。“他们是尊重我们的。我们也尊重他们。”
He even suggested that the North and the South might announce some kind of deal before he met Mr. Kim.
他甚至还暗示朝韩两国可能会在他与金正恩会面前，宣布某种协议。
On Tuesday, a South Korean newspaper, Munhwa Ilbo, reported that the two countries were negotiating an announcement “to ease military tensions and end a military confrontation,” as part of the summit meeting planned between Mr. Kim and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea.
周二，韩国《文化日报》(Munhwa Ilbo)报道称朝韩两国正在商讨一则公告，作为金正恩与韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)之间计划好的峰会的一部分，“来缓和军事紧张局势，终结军事对抗”。
That could involve pulling troops out of the Demilitarized Zone, making it a genuinely “Demilitarized Zone.” A South Korean government official later played down the report, saying it was too soon to tell what a joint statement by Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim would contain, other than broad and “abstract” statements about the need for North Korea to “denuclearize.”
这可能包括将部队撤出非军事区，让那里成为真正的“非军事区”。一名韩国政府官员后来淡化了这则报道，称现在说文在寅与金正恩发表的联合声明中的内容还为时过早，除了关于需要朝鲜“无核化”的宽泛、“抽象”声明。
But analysts said South Korea was aiming for a comprehensive deal, in which the North agreed to give up its weapons in return for a security guarantee, including a peace treaty. Mr. Trump’s comments suggested he backed that effort.
但分析人士表示，韩国的目标是一项全面的协议，其中朝鲜会同意放弃武器，以换取安全保障，包括一项和平协定。特朗普的说法暗示他支持该努力。
“They do have my blessing to discuss the end of the war,” he said. “People don’t realize that the Korean War has not ended. It’s going on right now. And they are discussing an end to war. Subject to a deal, they have my blessing.”
“我的确支持他们讨论终结战争，”他说。“人们没有意识到朝鲜战争还没有结束。它现在正在进行。而他们在讨论战争的结束。如果能拿出一个协议，我是支持他们的。”
While Mr. Abe lavished praise on Mr. Trump for the sanctions campaign, which he said had brought North Korea to the table, he did not repeat the president’s words about an end to the Korean War.
安倍晋三对特朗普的制裁行动大加赞赏，他称这让朝鲜重新回到了谈判桌上。但他并未重提总统有关结束朝鲜战争的言论。
“Donald,” he said, “you’ve demonstrated your unwavering determination in addressing the challenge of North Korea.”
“唐纳德，”他说，“你已经展现出了解决朝鲜问题的坚定决心。”
Mr. Abe said only that he hoped that the talks with Mr. Kim would force the North to address the threats posed by its nuclear and missile programs, as well as its abduction of Japanese citizens — a politically resonant issue in Japan that Mr. Trump promised to raise with Mr. Kim.
安倍只表示，他希望与金正恩的谈话能迫使朝鲜着手处理核计划和导弹计划构成的威胁，以及被朝鲜绑架的日本公民——特朗普承诺将提出的这个问题，在日本会引起政治反响。
“Abe put on a surprisingly brave face,” said Michael J. Green, a senior vice president at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who advised President George W. Bush on North Korea. “The president of the United States just endorsed a peace treaty with North Korea, a declared nuclear weapons state, and they offered nothing in return.”
“安倍令人惊讶地表现出了满不在意的样子，”曾为乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统担任朝鲜顾问的华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)高级副主席迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。“美国总统刚刚表示支持和朝鲜，一个公开宣称的持核国，签署和平协议，而且他们没有提出任何回报。”
China, which is a signer to the 1953 armistice, has long favored a peace treaty. But Japan, which did not sign it, is suspicious of one — as are some foreign policy experts in the United States, who point out that the North has yet to take any tangible steps to give up its nuclear arsenal.
中国是1953年停战协议的签署国，长期以来一直支持和平条约。但没有签署协议的日本和美国的一些外交政策专家一样，对此保持怀疑，指出朝鲜尚未采取任何实际行动放弃核武器。
The idea of a peace treaty is not new. The United States and North Korea discussed it in the 1990s and again in 2005. But it has never gone anywhere, largely because North Korea has reneged on pledges to give up its nuclear program.
和平协议这个想法并不新鲜。美国和朝鲜在1990年代对此曾有过讨论，又在2005年再次讨论。但从未有过任何进展，这主要是因朝鲜违背了放弃核计划的承诺。
Most scholars and officials agree that North and South Korea cannot themselves announce an end to the Korean War. It has to involve the United States and China as well, since both were signers to the armistice.
大多数学者和官员都认为，朝鲜和韩国不能自己宣布朝鲜战争结束，必须要纳入美国和中国，因为它们也是停战协议的签署国之一。
In welcoming Mr. Abe to his estate, Mar-a-Lago, for two days of meetings, Mr. Trump clearly hoped to change the subject from tampered documents, confiscated legal files and other symbols of the political storm clouds that hover over both leaders back home.
特朗普在他的马阿拉歌庄园招待安倍，进行为期两天的会晤，显然是希望换个话题，不再是篡改的文书、被没收的法律文件，或者其他在国内盘旋在两国领导人头上的政治乌云。
After days of ominous reports about his personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, and unflattering descriptions in a new book by James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director he ousted, Mr. Trump appeared to savor the prospect of discussing trade and the nuclear threat from North Korea with Mr. Abe, whom he described in Twitter as a “truly fine gentleman.”
在几天前出现了私人律师迈克尔·D·科恩(Michael D. Cohen)的负面报道，以及被他撤职的联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在新书中的难堪描写之后，特朗普似乎很享受与安倍晋三讨论贸易和朝鲜核威胁的前景，他在Twitter中把安倍称作“真正的绅士”。
The stakes are even higher for Mr. Abe, whose political survival is in doubt after two domestic scandals have sapped his approval ratings and raised questions about whether he will be forced to resign.
安倍晋三的处境更加危急。在国内出了两起丑闻之后，安倍的政治前景堪忧，支持率下滑，引人怀疑他是否会被强迫请辞。
Mr. Abe has invested heavily in his relationship with Mr. Trump, whom he first visited at Trump Tower even before he was sworn in. Preserving that relationship, in the face of fresh challenges in trade and from North Korea, could affect Mr. Abe’s standing in Japan.
安倍在与特朗普的关系上倾注了很多精力。甚至在特朗普宣誓就职之前，他就首先造访了特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)。面对贸易和朝鲜的新挑战，维持这段关系可能会关系到安倍晋三在日本的地位。
The White House sought to put a good face on the meeting, describing Japan as a great ally of the United States and Mr. Abe as a friend of Mr. Trump. But officials acknowledged there would be differences over trade, with Mr. Trump pushing for a trade deal between the two countries and Mr. Abe stung by Mr. Trump’s decision not to exempt Japan, like other American allies, from sweeping tariffs on steel exports.
白宫试图在会议上摆出一切都很好的样子，称日本是美国的伟大盟友，特朗普把安倍当朋友。但随着特朗普在两国之间推行一项贸易协议，官员们承认，两国在贸易上会有分歧。而且特朗普决定像对待其他盟友一样对待日本、不免除对日本钢铁出口的关税，也让安倍颇为不快。