Shopping may be about to undergo a dramatic transformation. Within the next decade it could change into an activity driven entirely by experiences and interactive technology rather than the act of buying. Think pop-up shops on steroids; places where you try things on or test products in person but don’t actually make any purchases.
购物或许即将发生深刻的变革。今后10年，这或许会变成一种完全由体验和互动技术驱动的活动，而不再是一种购买行为。想想极端的临时店面；或者那些吸引你亲身尝试各种产品，但却不必购买任何东西的地方。
This rise in so-called ‘experiential shopping’ is in part a reaction to the growth of online shopping. Last year online sales grew by 15% in Europe and North America and a similar increase is expected this year. But this increasingly digital shopping experience means brands have fewer opportunities to meet their customers face-to-face and are getting desperate to connect. It is leading them to seek out new ways of reaching consumers.
所谓的"体验式购物"的兴起源自在线购物的蓬勃发展。欧洲和北美去年的在线销售额增长15%，今年也有望实现类似的增幅。但数字化程度越来越强的购物体验导致品牌与客户面对面接触的机会越来越少，使得他们拼命想跟顾客取得联系。这也导致他们另辟蹊径接触消费者。
Take the Museum of Ice Cream, for instance. It’s not a museum. It’s not a shop. It’s somewhere in between. Tickets to the series of bubblegum pink, ice-cream themed installations cost around $38 and have sold out in New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
以冰淇淋博物馆（Museum of Ice Cream）为例。这其实不是博物馆，也不是商店，而是介于二者之间的一种模式。想要参观各种各样的粉红色泡泡糖，以及冰淇淋主题的装置艺术，大约要花费38美元，纽约、旧金山和洛杉矶的门票都被抢购一空。
Once inside, visitors are confronted with fun things to do rather than to buy – brightly-coloured, ice-cream themed installations such as a giant pool full of sugar sprinkles to jump into.
一旦进入博物馆，游客就可以体验有趣的事情，而不必购买东西。包括色彩亮丽的冰淇淋主题装置艺术，例如一个装满糖豆的巨大泳池，甚至可以让人们纵身跳入其中。
“The way in which we are able to have our visitors physically, tangibly, sensually engage with brands has a return on investment that no ad could ever come close to,” Maryellis Bunn, who designed the experience, said in an interview with New York Magazine.
"让顾客与我们的品牌展开的是实实在在的感官互动所产生的投资回报，是任何一个广告都无法比拟的。"这项体验的设计师马耶里斯·布恩（Maryellis Bunn）接受《纽约杂志》采访时说道。
Bunn believes as more retailers move entirely online, their former shop fronts will be replaced by “experiences”.
布恩认为，随着更多零售商完全转向线上，他们之前的店面将被"体验"取代。
Traditional brick-and-mortar shops do appear to be disappearing in swathes. In the US, Macy’s, Sears, and K-Mart are closing the doors in hundreds of locations while in the UK Mark & Spencer and Debenhams are making similar closures.
传统的实体店似乎的确在大批消失。在美国，梅西百货（Macy's）、西尔斯百货（Sears）和K-Mart（K-Mart）都关闭了数百家门店，而英国玛莎百货（Mark & Spencer）和德本汉姆（Debenhams）也采取了类似的关店措施。
But confusingly new stores, largely discount and low-end outlets, are opening too. In 2017 there will in fact be 4,080 more shops opening than there are closing, according to a report by the research firm IHL Group.
但令人困惑的是，很多新店仍在相继开张，而且以折扣店和低端店为主。事实上，根据市场研究公司IHL Group的报告，2017年新开的购物店数量将比关闭的店面多出4080家。
It is a complicated picture, but thinking of retail as either online or physical spaces misses the point, says Steven Dennis, a brand strategy consultant. He believes shopping in the future will need to be an amalgamation of both online shopping and physical stores, where customers move seamlessly between the two. Personalised interaction with customers such as intuitive apps and immersive experiences will be fundamental to success.
现状很复杂，但品牌战略顾问史蒂芬·丹尼斯（Steven Dennis）表示，如果你认为零售要么是在线空间，要么就是实体空间，本身就搞错了方向。他认为，未来的零售需要融合在线购物和实体店两种模式，让客户能在二者之间无缝切换。通过直观的应用或沉浸式体验与顾客展开个性化的互动，将成为成功的基石。
To understand how things will look, Dennis says we need to analyse how brands are already interacting with customers rather than just whether they are selling things online or in store. For instance, he says the idea of using stores purely as showrooms “has legs”. Shops like Story in New York, which uses a rotating “gallery” of stock built around a narrative, such as a story about nostalgia for the 1990s. This is connecting with people in a new way, he says.
丹尼斯表示，为了理解形势的变化，我们需要分析品牌已经采取的客户互动方式，而不仅仅是他们究竟在网上还是实体店内销售产品。例如，他表示，把店面完全当做展示空间的想法"很有前景"。纽约的Story就是这样的商店，它使用一个旋转的画廊来陈列物体，并围绕特定主体展开，例如90年代的怀旧故事。他表示，这是通过新的方法与人们建立联系。
Similarly, Casper, the mattress firm, has rolled out “napmobiles” where potential customers can road-test the foam mattress inside a refurbished camper van before purchasing one online.
类似地，床垫公司Casper也推出了"napmobiles"，让潜在客户可以在一个经过翻新的营地车里实地体验泡沫床垫，之后再去网上购买。
Brands that try to appeal too broadly to too many different people are failing spectacularly, according to Dennis. “You either need to pivot more towards the Amazon side of incredible convenience and great selection and low price or you’ve got to pivot to the other extreme, which is to be more special and remarkable and differentiated,” he says.
丹尼斯表示，如果一个品牌试图吸引的人群过于广泛、过于多样，那就会遭遇巨大失败。"你要么学习亚马逊，为人们提供无比的便利、海量的选择和极低的价格，要么就要走向另一个极端，突出个性、卓越和差异。"他说。
Creating a destination
创造目的地
Plans from coffee giant Starbucks show this theory in action. In April, Starbucks chairman Howard Shultz told investors that any retailer who is “going to win in this new environment must become an experiential destination. Your product and services, for the most part, cannot be available online and cannot be available on Amazon.”
咖啡连锁巨头星巴克（Starbucks）的计划展示了这种理论在实践中的应用。今年4月，星巴克董事长霍华德·舒尔茨（Howard Shultz）对投资者表示，任何"要在这种新环境中取胜的零售商都必须成为体验式目的地。你的产品和服务多半都不能在网上获得，不能在亚马逊上买到。"
In October, it closed its online store, which sold branded coffee mugs, coffee machines and coffee. And now, the company is launching 1,000 “Starbucks Reserve” locations. The concept is a high-end coffee bar where patrons can see small batch coffee beans being roasted and taste “coffee flights”.
今年10月，该公司关闭了专门出售品牌咖啡杯、咖啡机和咖啡的网店。而现在，他们启用了1,000个"星巴克储备店"。这是一种高端咖啡厅，顾客可以在这里看到小批量的咖啡烘烤过程，并品尝"咖啡航班"。
Technology company, Samsung, is getting into the experience game too, setting up customer care centres that double as well equipped remote work spaces. The company has partnered with co-working space WeWork to open three pilot locations in the US in Detroit, Miami and Williamsburg, NY.
科技公司三星（Samsung）也加入到这场体验游戏中，开设了客户关怀中心，同时也可以充当远程工作空间。该公司与共享办公提供商WeWork合作，在美国底特律、迈阿密和纽约州的威廉斯堡开设了3个试点店面。
The idea, says Mick McConnell, who is vice president of design at Samsung Electronics America, is to offer customers a functional workspace, complete with high-end mid-century furniture and video conferencing systems, so people can be productive while they wait for their devices to be repaired.
三星电子美国公司设计副总裁米克·麦康内尔（Mick McConnell）认为，这种理念就是为客户提供可以使用的工作空间，再配以高档的中世纪家具，以及视频会议系统，好让人们能在等待设备维修的过程中处理工作。
Even retailers that started out entirely online are moving towards creating locations where customers just try out their products.
就连靠网购起家的零售商也开始开设实体店，方便消费者尝试自己的产品。
Eyewear start-up, Warby Parker, which is valued at more than $1 billion, offered customers affordable, designer frames that they could try-on at home before deciding to buy, when they started out in 2010.
估值超过10亿美元的眼镜电商Warby Parker为消费者提供价格亲民的设计师眼镜框架。在2010年创办时，他们允许用户在家试戴之后再决定是否购买。
Seven years down the track Warby Parker has more than 60 retail locations across the US and Canada where customers pick stylish frames in strikingly sleek and trendy shops (The Portland location doubles as an old school video game arcade) with lots of personal assistance from staff on-hand to give advice about the perfect frame for your face.
7年后的今天，Warby Parker已经在美国和加拿大拥有60多家门店，方便消费者在装修时尚的店中选择时髦的镜框（波特兰店面还充当了怀旧视频游戏厅的角色），还有很多店员为顾客提供建议，帮助他们选择最适合自己脸型的镜框。
But even if you do find a pair you like, you can’t bring them home with you. Instead, glasses are mailed to customers. The company already offers prescription services in some of its locations, and in October it launched an app that allows eligible customers to give themselves a vision test at home.
但即便你真的找到一副适合自己的镜框，也不可能直接买回家里。只能通过邮寄方式获取。该公司已经在一些地方提供验光配镜服务，今年10月还推出了一款应用，允许符合要求的用户直接在家里验光。
Menswear store, Bonobos, has a similar strategy. The company started online but has opened physical stores across the US, which it calls “virtual stockrooms for the website”.
男装商店Bonobos也采用了类似的战略。该公司发家于线上，但已经在美国各地开张了很多实体店，他们称之为"网站的虚拟仓库"。
Customers are greeted by a “guide” who acts as a personal shopper, offering advice and recommendations, but the clothing on the racks stays in the stores, and purchases are mailed out from central warehouses.
店内有一个"向导"迎接顾客，并担任他们的购物顾问，为其提供建议，但顾客不能直接从店内取走衣服，而是要接收通过中央仓库邮寄来的订单。
There is certainly no shortage of space for this new form of experiential shopping. It is estimated that there is currently over 800 million square feet of empty retail space in the US. In the UK the proportion of all shops that have been empty for over two years has risen sharply to about one in 28.
这种新兴的体验式购物肯定不缺乏空间。据估计，美国目前空置的零售空间超过8亿平方英尺。在英国，过去两年空置的所有商店数量大幅增加，比例大约为1/28。
Exactly what will fill these spaces remains to be seen, but with digital retail technology likely to continue disrupting the shopping experience, it is safe to assume that Black Friday could become more of an experience than a bargain hunt.
究竟有哪些业态能够填补这些空白，还有待进一步观察。但由于数字零售技术可能进一步颠覆购物体验，可以放心地假定，今后的"黑色星期五"将更加重视体验，而不是降价。