The embattled prime minister of Malaysia, facing mounting political turmoil and a parade of inquiries at home and abroad into a sovereign wealth fund that he oversees, is now coming under the scrutiny of American investigators as well.
马来西亚总理已经陷入困境，该国政治动荡日益加剧，人们上街游行，要求在国内外彻查他负责的一个主权财富基金，而现在，美国调查人员也对他展开了调查。
A federal grand jury is examining allegations of corruption involving the prime minister, Najib Razak, and people close to him, according to two people with knowledge of the investigation.
两名知情人士表示，一个联邦大陪审团正在调查马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)受到的贪腐指控。
The inquiry, being run by a unit of the Justice Department that investigates international corruption, is focused on properties in the United States that were purchased in recent years by shell companies that belong to the prime minister’s stepson as well as other real estate connected to a close family friend, said the people knowledgeable about the case, who asked for anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it. Investigators are also looking at a $681 million payment made to what is believed to be Mr. Najib’s personal bank account.
知情人士说，调查由司法部(Justice Department)一个负责调查国际贪腐案件的小组开展，集中在总理继子的一家空壳公司最近几年在美国购买的物业，以及与这家人的一名密友相关的物业上；因为没有获许谈论此事，两人不愿具名。而调查人员还在检查一笔6.81亿美元的转账，收款方据信是纳吉布的个人银行账户。
Pressure in Malaysia on Mr. Najib intensified on Monday as two separate courts dealt him legal setbacks. And the head of the country’s central bank, which is investigating transactions involving the sovereign wealth fund, said it had submitted its findings to the Malaysian attorney general.
本周一，有两家法院分别开始处理纳吉布的法律纠纷，令他在马来西亚国内承受的压力加剧。该国的中央银行已在调查涉及该主权财富基金的交易，称已把调查结果提交给了马来西亚总检察长。
“Right now, we know that the public wants answers to these questions, and they deserve to get the answers,” said the head banker, Zeti Akhtar Aziz, according to the Malaysian Insider news site.
据“马来西亚内情”(The Malaysian Insider)网站报道，该国央行行长洁蒂·阿赫塔尔·阿兹(Zeti Akhtar Aziz)说，“目前，我们知道公众希望知悉这些问题的答案，他们也有权知道。”
In one article, The Times documented more than $150 million in luxury residential properties connected either to Mr. Najib’s stepson, Riza Aziz, or to the family friend, a businessman named Jho Low. Mr. Low, The Times found, has also been involved in business deals with Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund, which is a government investment fund.
时报曾在一篇文章中写到，价值逾1.5亿美元豪宅与纳吉布的继子勒扎·阿齐兹(Riza Aziz)，或这家人的密友、商人刘特佐(Jho Low)有关。时报还发现，刘特佐也参与了与马来西亚政府投资的基金主权财富基金的商业交易。
That fund, called 1MDB, has run into serious financial problems in part because of aggressive borrowing. Investigators in several countries are examining allegations that money from the fund is missing. This month, Swiss authorities said they had frozen several individuals’ bank accounts, and inquiries are underway in Hong Kong and Singapore as well as in Malaysia.
这支名为1MDB的基金遇到了严重的财政问题，部分原因在于它的大手笔借贷。该基金曾被指账面有资金消失，几个国家正在对此调查。本月，瑞士当局说，他们已经冻结某些个人的银行账户，香港、新加坡以及马来西亚本国的调查正在进行之中。
Mr. Najib’s office did not comment on the Justice Department inquiry. A representative for Mr. Aziz said he was not involved in any investigation, adding that “there has never been anything inappropriate” about his business activities. A spokesman for Mr. Low said that he had not been notified that he was the subject of any investigations, and that his business “adheres to all relevant regulatory requirements.” A spokesman for the Justice Department declined to comment.
纳吉布的办公室没有对司法部的调查置评。阿齐兹的代表说他没有卷入任何调查，而且他在商业活动中“从未有过任何不恰当行为”。刘特佐的发言人说，刘特佐没有接到遭受任何调查的通知，在生意中“遵守了所有相关法规的要求”。司法部一位发言人拒绝对此置评。
The details of the corruption allegations involving Mr. Najib and people connected to him are complex and multifaceted. Authorities in each country are focusing on the aspects that fall in their jurisdictions.
纳吉布及其联系人遭受的贪腐指控在细节上颇为复杂，而且涉及面广。每个国家的调查都侧重在自身管辖权覆盖的范围之内。
In the United States, officials are examining the real estate tied to Mr. Najib’s stepson and to Mr. Low, which could be seized if a case could be made that the properties had been purchased with the proceeds earned in corrupt practices, according to the people familiar with the investigation. The $681 million payment being investigated falls under United States jurisdiction because it was routed through Wells Fargo, an American bank.
一位知情人士说，美国官员正在调查纳吉布的继子和刘特佐名下的物业，如果这些物业确实有可能是用贪腐所得购买的，可能就会遭到扣押。那笔6.81亿美元的转账属于美国管辖范围内，因为它是美国的富国银行(Wells Fargo)经手的。
The inquiry is being run by the Justice Department’s Kleptocracy Initiative, which has seized properties in the United States owned by relatives of politicians from Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Korea and Taiwan.
该调查由司法部的“反高层盗用国有资源项目”(Kleptocracy Initiative)负责。该项目扣押了位于美国的一些物业，他们属于赤道几内亚、尼日利亚、韩国和台湾一些政治人物的亲属。
Questions about where Mr. Low and the prime minister’s stepson — a movie producer behind films including “The Wolf of Wall Street” — obtained money for the United States properties have helped fuel political unrest in Malaysia, where several political leaders in the opposition and in Mr. Najib’s own party have called for the prime minister to step down. In the last month, there have been mass street protests, and a global network of nongovernmental organizations, the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, has joined the call for Mr. Najib’s resignation.
纳吉布的继子是电影制片人，制作的电影包括《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)等，有关他和刘特佐在美国购置物业的资金来源问题，对马来西亚的政治动荡起到了推助作用，反对派和纳吉布所在政党的一些领袖呼吁他下台。过去一个月中，马来西亚出现了大规模的街头抗议，而全球性的非政府组织网络“联合国反贪腐公约”(United Nations Convention against Corruption)也加入了呼吁纳吉布辞职的行列。
Mr. Najib has held fast, denying the corruption allegations and saying the $681 million payment, reported in July by The Wall Street Journal, was not improper. His office told The Times this year that he was not involved in the American properties connected to his stepson and to Mr. Low.
纳吉布坚持否认腐败指控，并称由《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)在七月曝光的那笔6.81亿美元没有不当之处。他的办公室曾在今年对时报表示，他和美国那些与他的继子及刘特佐有牵连的房地产无关。
He has also struck back at his questioners and accusers. Over the summer, he dismissed several members of his administration, including the attorney general leading one inquiry, and he has barred several opponents from leaving Malaysia, including a member of his own party who was on his way to New York last week. That politician’s lawyer told The Times that he had planned to meet with the F.B.I.
他还对质疑和指责他的人进行了反击。夏天，他解雇了自己政府内的多名官员，其中包括正在主持一项调查工作的检察长。他还禁止几名政敌离开马来西亚，包括他自己所在党的一名成员。上周，这名政界人士去了纽约。其律师对时报表示，他打算与联邦调查局(FBI)会面。
In July, Mr. Najib also shut down a newspaper, The Edge, because of its reports of payments between 1MDB and Mr. Low. On Monday, though, a court in Malaysia reversed the action, ruling that the paper could resume publication as soon as Tuesday. In a separate decision on Monday, a judge ruled that a lawsuit calling for Mr. Najib to return the money that had been transferred into his personal account, and for seizure of his assets around the world, could move forward.
7月，纳吉布还因为一家名叫The Edge的报纸报道了1MDB和刘特佐之间的资金往来而将其关闭。但周一当天，马来西亚一家法院裁定这家报纸最快周二便可以恢复出版，令情势出现急转。在周一的另一项判决中，一名法官裁定一起诉讼可以继续推进。该诉讼要求纳吉布归还被转入其个人账户的钱，并没收他在世界各地的资产。
The $150 million in American properties tied to the prime minister’s stepson and to Mr. Low include a penthouse at the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle in Manhattan purchased for $30.55 million by a shell company connected to Mr. Low’s family trust. Companies tied to Mr. Low’s family have also purchased a $39 million mansion on Oriole Drive in the Hollywood Hills in Los Angeles, the L’Ermitage Hotel in Beverly Hills and part of the Park Lane Hotel in New York. Through shell companies, Mr. Aziz purchased a $33.5 million condominium at the Park Laurel on 63rd Street in Manhattan, a home in Beverly Hills known as the pyramid house for a gold pyramid in its garden, as well as other properties in the Los Angeles area.
在美国，与总理继子及刘特佐有关的房地产价值1.5亿美元，包括位于曼哈顿哥伦布环岛时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)的一处顶级豪华公寓。该公寓由一家与刘特佐的家族信托基金有关联的空壳公司出资3055万美元购得。与刘特佐家族有关的公司还以3900万美元的价格，在洛杉矶好莱坞山的奥里奥尔路买了一处宅邸，并在贝弗利山和纽约分别购得艾米塔基酒店(L’Ermitage Hotel)和帕克莱恩酒店(Park Lane Hotel)的一部分。通过空壳公司，阿齐兹豪掷3350万美元，在曼哈顿63街的公园桂冠(Park Laurel)买下了一处共管公寓，并在贝弗利山购得一处房屋，该房屋因花园里有一座金色的金字塔而被称为金字塔庄园。除此以外，他在洛杉矶地区还买下了其他房产。
The Park Laurel condo and the Beverly Hills home were owned by shell companies connected to Mr. Low’s family before being transferred to shell companies tied to Mr. Aziz. Shell companies — trusts, limited liability companies and other entities — are commonly used in real estate for privacy, wealth transfer or shared ownership. They also make it difficult, however, for law enforcement authorities and others to discover the true owners of property.
在被转至与阿齐兹有关联的空壳公司名下之前，公园桂冠的那套共管公寓和贝弗利山的那一处房屋的业主是和刘特佐有关的空壳公司。在房地产行业，包括信托基金、有限责任公司和其他实体在内的空壳公司，普遍被用来保护隐私、转移财产或共享所有权。然而，它们也导致执法机构和其他人难以发现真正的业主。
In the case of the Beverly Hills home, the property was transferred without any public filings, with Mr. Low’s family trust selling ownership of the shell company to a corporate entity controlled by Mr. Aziz, The Times found.
时报发现，贝弗利山那处房产的过户没有任何公开文件，刘特佐的家族信托基金将那家空壳公司的所有权卖给了由阿齐兹掌控的一家企业实体。