KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — A woman with an Indonesian passport was arrested early Thursday in the assassination of Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, the Malaysian authorities announced as they continued to hunt for conspirators.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚当局宣布，周四早间，一名涉嫌参与金正男被暗杀一事的女性被捕，该女子持印度尼西亚护照。金正男是朝鲜领导人金正恩同父异母的哥哥。马拉西亚官方称他们正继续追捕共犯。
The suspect, identified as Siti Aishah, 25, is the second woman arrested in the case. Her appearance matches the image of a woman captured in airport surveillance videos, said the statement from Khalid Abu Bakar, the inspector general of police.
警察总长卡立德·阿布·巴卡(Khalid Abu Bakar)说，该嫌犯名为西蒂·艾莎 (Siti Aishah)，25岁，是这一案件中第二位被逮捕的女性。她的外表与机场监控设备捕捉下来的画面相符。
The woman who was arrested a day earlier was carrying a Vietnamese passport. The police were trying to confirm whether either passport reflected the women’s true nationalities.
此前一天遭到逮捕的女嫌犯持越南护照。警方正在确认该护照是否反映其真实国籍。
North Korea has long been suspected of training its spies to pose as foreigners. In 1987, when a female officer from the North was caught on suspicion of planting a bomb on a Korean Air passenger jet, she was using a Japanese alias and spoke Japanese.
长久以来，朝鲜都被怀疑在训练间谍伪装外国人。1987年，一名来自朝鲜的女官员因被怀疑在一架大韩航空的客机上放置炸弹而被抓。她当时用的是日本化名，讲的也是日语。
The news media in Malaysia reported that the police were also looking for four male suspects, suggesting that the plot was more involved than initially indicated.
马来西亚媒体报道称，警方同时也在搜寻四名男性嫌疑人，暗示这场阴谋涉及到的人数比一开始表现出来的要多。
Channel NewsAsia reported that the police had arrested the woman’s Malaysian boyfriend in the case. It was unclear what role he may have had.
据亚洲新闻台报道，警方已经逮捕了这名女子的马来西亚男友。尚不清楚其男友在该案中扮演了什么样的角色。
Kim Jong-nam, 45, was preparing to fly to his home in Macau from Kuala Lumpur on Monday morning when he was attacked and poisoned by two women at Terminal 2 of the international airport, the authorities said.
马来西亚当局表示，45岁的金正男周一正准备从吉隆坡机场出发，飞往他澳门的家。他在第二航站楼遭两名女子攻击并被下毒。
The attack occurred near the AirAsia counter where Mr. Kim would have been checking in for the flight to Macau. The poison took effect quickly, and he died on the way to a hospital.
攻击发生在亚洲航空柜台附近，当时金正男已完成飞往澳门的登机手续。毒性发作得很快，他在被送往医院的途中死亡。
While the poisoning of Mr. Kim in a very public place conjured up images of spy movies, the plot appears to have been rather unsophisticated, and the Malaysian police rounded up the first two suspects relatively quickly.
虽然这起发生在公共场合的毒杀让人联想到间谍电影，但情节并不复杂，马来西亚警方很快地逮捕了两名嫌疑人。
For one, the women appear to have had no getaway car. Photographs from airport surveillance cameras leaked to the local news media show one woman waiting with passengers for a taxi outside the airport.
其中一名女性似乎并没有用以逃脱的车。当地媒体播出的机场的监视摄像画面显示，该名女性在机场外与其他乘客一同等候出租车。
Unlike at some major airports in Asia, departing passengers do not undergo security screening at the terminal’s entrance, and anyone can reach the check-in counters well inside the airport without having to show identification or a ticket.
吉隆坡机场与亚洲其他一些主要机场不同的是，出境的旅客不需要在航站楼入口接受安检。任何人都可以在未出示身份证明或机票的情况下，直接抵达办理登机的柜台。
The authorities were slow to confirm that Mr. Kim was the brother of North Korea’s leader and initially identified him as Kim Chol, based on the passport that he was using to fly to Macau.
马来西亚当局较迟才确认金正男是朝鲜领导人金正恩的长兄。起初他们将他识别为金哲(Kim Chol)，这是他用来飞往澳门的护照上显示的名字。
Malaysia’s deputy prime minister, Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, told reporters on Thursday that the passport was one of two Mr. Kim was carrying but that it was authentic. “Probably this is an undercover document,” he said.
周四，马来西亚副首相阿迈德扎希(Ahmad Zahid Hamidi)告诉记者，该护照是金正男两本护照中的一本，而且是真的。 “这可能是一份用来掩饰身份的证件，”他表示。