JPMorgan Chase disclosed on Wednesday that it faced a criminal and civil investigation into whether it sold shoddy mortgage securities to investors in the run-up to the financial crisis, the latest legal threat to the nation’s biggest bank.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)周三披露，公司正面临刑事与民事调查。这些调查是为了发现，该行是否曾在金融危机前向投资者兜售劣质的抵押贷款支持证券。它们也是美国最大的银行所面临的新一轮法律威胁。
JPMorgan acknowledged for the first time the existence of the investigation — one of several mortgage-related problems looming for the bank — in a quarterly regulatory filing. It said that the civil division of the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of California, which covers a stretch of land that includes Sacramento and Yosemite, has “preliminarily concluded” that JPMorgan flouted federal laws with its sale of subprime mortgage securities from 2005 to 2007. The parallel criminal inquiry, according to one person briefed on the matter, is in a more preliminary stage.
摩根大通是在向监管部门提交的季报中首次承认存在相关调查，而这也是该行即将面临的与抵押贷款有关的数个问题之一。季报中称，加利福尼亚州东区联邦检察官办公室的民事部门得出“初步结论”，摩根大通在2005年到2007年间的次贷证券销售行为违反了联邦法律。这个办公室的辖区覆盖了包括萨克拉门托和约塞米蒂在内的大片区域。一位知情人士透露，与之平行的刑事调查则处于更初级的阶段。
Adding to scrutiny of the bank, federal prosecutors in Philadelphia are examining whether JPMorgan duped investors into buying troubled mortgage securities that later imploded, according to people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The prosecutors are investigating whether JPMorgan churned out the mortgage-backed securities without ensuring that the investments met underwriting standards, the people said.
除了以上调查，另据匿名知情人士的说法，驻费城的联邦检察官正在调查，摩根大通是否曾哄骗投资者购买不良抵押贷款证券，而这些证券后来都崩溃了。这些知情人士称，检察官具体调查的是，摩根大通是否在未能确保投资符合承销标准的情况下，大批兜售抵押贷款支持证券。
Representatives for the bank and the federal prosecutors declined to comment.
摩根大通和联邦检察官办公室的发言人均拒绝置评。
Once a darling in regulatory circles, JPMorgan has become a magnet for scrutiny in recent years, drawing attention from at least eight federal agencies, a state regulator and two European nations. The authorities are investigating the bank in connection with its financial crisis-era mortgage business and a $6 billion trading loss in London last year, among other issues.
摩根大通一度深受监管机构的青睐，近年来却成为审查的中心，吸引了至少八家联邦机构、一家州级监管机构和两个欧洲国家的注意力。当局正在调查的事件，与该行金融危机时期的住房抵押贷款业务及去年发生在伦敦的60亿美元（约合370亿元人民币）交易损失有关，此外还有其他一些问题。
As the investigations drag on, the bank is racking up significant legal costs. To help cushion against potentially hefty payouts to the authorities, JPMorgan recorded a $678 million expense for additional litigation reserves in the second quarter, up from $323 million in the same period a year ago, according to the filing on Wednesday.
随着调查的延续，摩根大通准备了高额的法律费用。根据周三公布的季报，为了缓和可能支付给当局巨额罚款的影响，该行在第二季度录入了6.78亿美元的开支作为额外的诉讼准备金，而去年同期的金额为3.23亿美元。
The bank also estimated it could incur up to $6.8 billion in losses beyond its reserves, nearly $1 billion more than the first quarter of the year.
该行还估计，准备金之外，损失还可能再增加到高达68亿美元，比今年第一季度的估算多出了近10亿美元。
JPMorgan is hardly the only Wall Street firm taking heat in Washington. The investigations into the bank are playing out as prosecutors increasingly take action against Wall Street firms that bundled mortgages into complex investments in the heady days of the housing boom.
摩根大通绝不是唯一受到华盛顿责难的华尔街机构。随着检察部门越来越多对它们在住房繁荣的狂热期将抵押贷款打包为复杂投资品的行为采取行动，针对这些银行的调查正逐步展开。
On Tuesday, Bank of America found itself in the government’s cross hairs when the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission accused the bank of defrauding investors by greatly overstating the quality of mortgages backing roughly $850 million in securities. The bank contested the accusations.
周二，美国银行(Bank of America)发现自己撞到了政府的枪口上，司法部和证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)指控该行欺诈投资者，方法是严重夸大8.5亿美元抵押贷款支持证券的质量。该银行对以上指控予以否认。
The lawsuit was the latest volley from President Obama’s federal mortgage task force, which has vowed to hold financial firms accountable for their role in the mortgage boom and bust that threatened to topple the American economy.
这起诉讼是奥巴马总统的联邦抵押贷款工作组的最新行动，该小组誓言要让相关金融机构为它们在抵押贷款大起大落中的所作所为付出代价，那一轮风暴曾令美国经济几近崩溃。
The working group’s first action came last October, when the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, took aim at Bear Stearns, the firm that JPMorgan acquired during the depths of the financial crisis. The firm, Mr. Schneiderman said in a lawsuit, sold securities between 2005 and 2007 that caused roughly $22.5 billion in losses for investors.
工作组的第一次行动是在去年10月，当时，纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施奈德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)瞄准了贝尔斯登(Bear Stearns)，这家企业在金融危机最严重的时候被摩根大通收购。施奈德曼在诉讼中称，该公司在2005年和2007年间售出的证券造成了投资者约225亿美元的损失。
Investors were assured, the lawsuit said, that the firm scoured the loans packaged into the investments to assure their quality. In fact, the prosecutor contended, there was little vetting.
起诉书称，贝尔斯登曾令投资者相信，该公司已经把打包进投资里的贷款清理了出来，以确保投资的质量。事实上，检察官称该银行几乎没有进行审查。
JPMorgan is fighting the lawsuit.
摩根大通目前正在打这起官司。
A month later, however, JPMorgan agreed to a $296.9 million pact with the S.E.C. to resolve unrelated claims that Bear Stearns duped mortgage investors by failing to disclose some delinquent loans. JPMorgan did not admit or deny wrongdoing.
然而在一个月之后，摩根大通与证券交易委员会达成了一项2.969亿美元的协议来解决另外一些不相关的指控，即贝尔斯登通过不披露一些拖欠贷款来欺骗抵押贷款投资者。摩根大通既未承认也未否认有违规行为。
JPMorgan is also one of 18 banks that a federal regulator accused of selling troubled loans to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac — the government-controlled mortgage finance giants — without fully disclosing the potential risks. The regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, recently rejected a settlement offer from JPMorgan, the people briefed on the matter said, raising the prospect of a drawn-out legal battle.
联邦监管机构还指控18家银行向政府控制的抵押贷款融资巨头房利美(Fannie Mae)和房地美(Freddie Mac)出售不良贷款，而没有充分披露潜在风险，摩根大通也位列其中。知情人士称，该监管机构，即联邦住房金融局(Federal Housing Finance Agency)，最近拒绝了摩根大通提出的和解方案，这可能会引发一场旷日持久的法律战。
In the latest investigations out of California and Philadelphia, federal prosecutors are examining whether JPMorgan ignored evidence of broad flaws among the loans that were ultimately pooled and sold to investors, the people briefed on the matter said. The California investigation is aimed at the mortgage business that JPMorgan inherited after its purchase of Washington Mutual, the people said. It is unclear what prompted the inquiry in Philadelphia.
知情人士称，在加利福尼亚和费城的最新调查中，联邦检察官正在调查摩根大通是否忽视了贷款中存在明显缺陷的证据，而这些贷款最终被打包卖给投资者。知情人士还表示，加利福尼亚的调查针对的是摩根大通收购华盛顿互惠银行(Washington Mutual)之后继承的抵押贷款业务。尚不清楚是什么促成了费城的调查。
Facing the onslaught of unwanted attention, JPMorgan has moved to settle some cases. The bank recently struck a $410 million settlement with the nation’s top energy regulator, which had accused the bank of devising “manipulative schemes” to transform “money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers.”
这些事为摩根大通引来的注目是它不愿看到的，为此公司采取行动和解了数起案件。该行最近与美国最高能源监管机构达成了4.1亿美元的和解，后者指责该行设计了“暗中操纵的骗局”，将“亏损的发电厂”粉饰为“强大的盈利中心”。