As a backdrop for superb art and a lively young family, a neutral palette deployed with a discerning eye and subtle hand is anything but bland: it is intelligent, sophisticated and rather cozy.
慧眼与巧手造就的素雅室内色彩搭配，丝毫不显死板，它烘托着美轮美奂的艺术珍品，装点着充满朝气的年轻家庭，精巧、纯熟，温馨十足。
A line in Andy Warhol’s diary entry for Dec. 5, 1978 reads: “I was invited over to William F. Buckley’s for music at 6.00, they have things like that.” Indeed they did. The grand but compact Park Avenue duplex maisonette of Buckley and his socialite wife, Pat, was set up as a locus of New York high style and entertaining — with only one proper bedroom but plenty of space for receptions.
安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)在1978年12月5日的日记中写道：“我受邀于6点钟去小威廉·F·巴克利（William F. Buckley, Jr.，美国媒体人、作家、保守主义政治评论家——译注）家里听音乐，他们家总会有这样的事情。”事实的确如此。巴克利和他的妻子、社交名媛帕特(Pat)住在公园大道(Park Avenue)的一座复式公寓里，房子豪华而又紧凑，是纽约市一处格调高雅的娱乐场所——虽然只有一间像样的卧室，但也有足够的空间款待宾客。
It is ironic, then, that Renee and Mark Rockefeller find themselves in this elegant and intimate apartment today. Not only do they have four young children who like to play lacrosse in the front hall, and spend most evenings eating dinner together in the kitchen, but one of the better-known rivalries in Republican Party history was between Mark’s father, Nelson Rockefeller, and Buckley, who supported Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election.
讽刺的是，这套典雅而温馨的住宅，如今成了蕾妮和马克·洛克菲勒(Renee and Mark Rockefeller)的新居。洛克菲勒夫妇的四个幼子喜欢在前厅里玩长曲棍球，而且大多数晚间都在厨房共进晚餐；除此之外，这两家人还有一段更加广为人知的渊源——在共和党的历史上，纳尔逊·洛克菲勒(Nelson Rockefeller)曾与巴克利所支持的巴里·戈德华特(Barry Goldwater)在1964年的总统选举上展开角逐。
Mark Rockefeller is an entrepreneur whose businesses include the South Fork Lodge (a fishing resort on the Snake River in Idaho) and Legacy Connect, which seeks to redefine how people engage in philanthropy. Renee is a lawyer by training but serves on the board of Creative Time, the public art organization, and consults for the Frieze art fairs. Their children are all under the age of 14.
马克·洛克菲勒是一名企业家，他的公司包括South Fork Lodge和Legacy Connect。前者是爱达荷州斯内克河(Snake River)一处钓鱼胜地的度假村，后者则致力于重塑人们参与慈善的方式。蕾妮是一名训练有素的律师，但目前就职于公共艺术机构Creative Time的董事会，还是弗里兹艺术博览会(Frieze art fair)的顾问。夫妇俩的孩子都不到14岁。
After several years in a townhouse on Carnegie Hill, Renee wanted to spend less time looking for family members on different floors. Despite being an apartment, this place — with its airy Georgian rooms, graceful curving staircase and private street entrance — also felt like a house. Renee fell for its unique character — it is in one of the great Rosario Candela buildings in New York — and saw its potential to hold a family, first of all by combining maids rooms into bedrooms. “It does get cozy,” she admits. “But we like that feeling, a bit like a boat.”
一家人在卡内基山(Carnegie Hill)的一座联排别墅中住了几年后，蕾妮不想再为在各个楼层寻找家人花太多时间了。而他们的新居尽管属于公寓套间，但给人的感觉仍像一处别墅——乔治亚风格的房间通风良好，蜿蜒的楼梯古朴雅致，还有临街的单独入口。公寓所属建筑，是大师级建筑师罗萨里奥·坎德拉(Rosario Candela)在纽约市留下的一大杰作。蕾妮为它的独特风韵倾倒，也发掘出它承载一户家庭的潜力，首先要做的就是将女佣房并入卧室。“房子确实会显得小巧，”她坦言，“不过我们喜欢那种感觉，感觉有点像住在船上。”
The original planning was done with Annabelle Selldorf, who contributed many ideas and a spectacular family kitchen. Later, the New York architect and decorator Daniel Romualdez, who had collaborated with the Rockefellers on their townhouse, began working on the project. When he first toured the Buckley maisonette, he had the family’s style down pat, and recognized that many of the qualities he sought for the rooms were already there, if obscured under illusionistic finishes and lipstick red paint. Renee, too, had in mind something more subtle and layered than the typical gut job.
最初的规划出自安娜贝尔·塞尔多夫(Annabelle Selldorf)之手，她贡献了许多点子，还设计了一间豪华的家庭厨房。后来，纽约的建筑设计师兼室内设计师丹尼尔·罗穆亚尔德斯(Daniel Romualdez)开始接手这个项目。洛克菲勒一家旧居的室内设计就与他合作过。他在初次游历巴克利旧宅时，就已将这套房子的风格掌握得一清二楚了；同时意识到，自己所追求的许多设计效果在现有房间中已有所体现，只不过在错视艺术的涂饰和口红色油漆的映衬下，显得模糊不清。蕾妮也是一样，她所构想的室内改建计划比一般的计划更加精巧，也更有层次感。
The interiors have a light and neutral palette that allows the life of the house and the objects within it to take center stage, but is anything but staid. There is a style, which has risen to prominence today, that might be described as “school of beige.” Not, as they say on “Seinfeld,” that there’s anything wrong with that, but when people (and decorators) opt for neutrality over adventure, rooms can get a little predictable. Here, even with a good bit of beige, cream and bone spread around, the spirit is in every way the opposite. It’s about taking risks, taking chances with convention and trying unexpected combinations. These rooms are equal parts boldness and subtlety, like a Halston dress.
室内装潢的色调虽然淡雅、朴实，但一点也不刻板，用以衬托房间及其内部物件的生气。有一种风格最近很流行，我们或许可以称之为“米色学派”(school of beige)。正如他们在《宋飞正传》(Seinfeld)中所说，采用这样的风格没什么不对，但是一旦房主（及室内设计师）选择走中庸路线而不愿大胆冒险，那么房子的装潢就难免略乏惊喜。而在这处新居，虽然米色、奶油色和骨色大行其道，但是其整体面貌毫不平庸。这种设计的精髓在于敢冒风险，对传统素材加以利用，并勇于尝试意想不到的组合。这些房间在设计上既大胆前卫，又不失精巧，就像一件侯斯顿(Halston)礼服。
In the living room, for instance, all the moldings are original, though there is something curiously hip and abstracted about them now. A close look, and a touch, reveals that the entire room is covered in faux suede. “I started thinking about a room I had seen in Paris in which the crown, the walls and all the moldings were upholstered in velvet,” Romualdez says. “And another one at the Shelburne Museum in Vermont covered in leather. Eventually Renee and I settled on faux suede.”
举个例子，在起居室，所有石膏吊顶装饰都是原物，只不过现在看来，那花纹有些怪异的时髦和抽象感。如果定睛细看，再用手触摸，就会发现整个房间都铺着仿麂皮绒。“我就想到了自己在巴黎见过的一个房间，那里的拱顶、墙面和所有的吊顶装饰都铺上了天鹅绒，”罗穆亚尔德斯说，“另外，佛蒙特州的谢尔本博物馆(Shelburne Museum)有一个房间铺着皮革。最后蕾妮和我选择了仿麂皮绒。”
The dining room is on the grand side, so Romualdez and his client decided to deploy upholstery to make things feel more intimate. They both loved a photograph of Lee Radziwill in her London sitting room decorated by Renzo Mongiardino, its walls covered entirely in mismatched Indian cottons; that image inspired Romualdez to commission the textile designer Carolina Irving (also a T magazine contributing editor) to create a fabric especially for this room. She found a tiny print in a book of Javanese batiks and enlarged it to monumental scale. For the borders, Romualdez sourced a different design and printed it on the diagonal. Now the room has the discipline of paneling, even if its panels are printed on heavy Belgian linen.
餐厅位于房屋比较气派的一侧，于是罗穆亚尔德斯和他的客户决定把它装饰得更温馨一点。他们都很喜欢一张李·拉齐维尔(Lee Radziwill)在其伦敦寓所起居室内的照片。那间起居室由伦佐·蒙加尔迪诺(Renzo Mongiardino)设计装修，撞色的印度棉铺满整面墙壁。受到这张照片的启迪，罗穆亚尔德斯委托纺织品设计师卡洛琳娜·欧文(Carolina Irving)（也是T magazine的特约编辑）专门为这间餐厅打造了一件织物。欧文在一本爪哇蜡染布艺书上找到一张很小的印花图案，将它放大成了巨幅的图样。罗穆亚尔德斯还为织物的滚边找到一种不同的设计，将它印染在了对角线上。现在，餐厅的装饰效果就像运用了镶板一样规整，只不过这些“镶板”是在厚重的比利时亚麻布上印染出来的。
Not only does the apartment have a pedigree, so do its contents. Much of the sculpture and furniture comes from the legendary Fifth Avenue spread designed by Wallace K. Harrison and Jean-Michel Frank for Nelson Rockefeller in 1937. This was one of the most fearless and influential Modernist environments ever created, with collaborations by Frank, Giacometti, Matisse and Léger. And that was just the living room.
不仅是这处公寓本身的来头不小，其内部的物件也是如此。许多雕塑和家具来自于纳尔逊·洛克菲勒在第五大道的寓所。这座有名的寓所，是1937年由华莱士·K·哈里森(Wallace K. Harrison)和让-米歇尔·弗兰克(Jean-Michel Frank)为纳尔逊·洛克菲勒设计的，是设计师有史以来缔造出的最具开拓性和影响力的现代主义环境，也是弗兰克、贾柯梅蒂（Giacometti，二十世纪瑞士著名画家和雕塑家——译注）、马蒂斯(Matisse)和莱热（Léger，法国立体派画家——译注）携手合作的结晶。这些，还只是客厅的情况。
This Rockefeller apartment’s centerpiece, and arguably the most breathtaking art encounter in a home that does not lack for them, is the Picasso tapestry made for Mark’s father of “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon.” The painting had hung at MoMA since the late 1930s, so Nelson commissioned this version as part of a series begun in 1955. Picasso, intrigued by a request from one of his most dynamic and supportive patrons, selected the wool tufts himself, and in a solution worthy of both Nelson the businessman and Nelson the politician, three were made: one for him, one for Picasso and one to sell to pay for the production.
洛克菲勒公寓的核心装饰品，是毕加索为马克的父亲制作的挂毯《亚维农的少女》(Les Demoiselles d’Avignon)。在一个艺术品荟萃的寓所中，这件珍品无疑能给人带来最动人心魄的艺术享受。自20世纪30年代末以来，这幅画一直挂在现代艺术博物馆(MoMA)，于是纳尔逊作为毕加索最活跃、最有实力的赞助人之一，委托他制作挂毯，作为其自1955年开始收藏的系列艺术品的一部分。毕加索亲自挑选了制作挂毯用的羊毛簇绒，采取的方案也符合纳尔逊作为商人和政客的双重身份——挂毯一共制作了三件，一件给纳尔逊，一件给毕加索，还有一件用来销售，以承担制作成本。
The influence of other Rockefeller houses has found its way into this one, too. “At Mark’s uncle David’s townhouse, my favorite room is the library,” says Renee, referring to one of the jewels of New York domestic architecture on East 65th Street. “It is made of knotty English pine — so despite unbelievable art, which could be intimidating, it is also welcoming, humble and warm. I learned a lot from that room.” Mark and Renee’s library is paneled in oak, a wood usually known for its serenity and straight grain. When the veneers, intentionally chosen for their imperfections, were delivered, the contractor was nervous that this ball of knots would be rejected. “To get it right, you can’t be afraid to get it a little wrong,” as Albert Hadley once said to me.
洛克菲勒家族的其它住宅也在这套公寓的设计上留下了烙印。“在马克的叔叔戴维(David)的联排别墅中，我最喜欢的房间是书房。”蕾妮说，她提到的联排别墅，在东65街的住宅群中可是一颗耀眼的明珠，“它是由节疤处处的英国松树建造的，所以虽然其令人难以置信的艺术成就使人心生敬畏，但它给人的感觉依然平易近人、温馨好客。我从那处房间的设计中学到了很多。”马克和蕾妮的书房采用了橡木作镶板木料，这种木料向来以宁静的气质和笔直的纹理为人所知。装饰面恰是因为它们的不完美而被特意挑选。承包商在交付产品时曾担心那些带节疤的会被退货。但正如阿尔伯特·哈德利(Albert Hadley)曾对我说的那样，“要想把设计做好，就得允许它出一点小差错。”
Daniel Romualdez would be the first to tell you that a decorator really couldn’t have done this apartment alone, because a result so interesting is very hard to get by one hand. Just as Nelson Rockefeller reached out to a cast of artists during a time when Modernism basically had no rules, Romualdez and Renee Rockefeller have shown a similar taste for adventure.
没有一名室内设计师能独自完成这套公寓的设计，丹尼尔·罗穆亚尔德斯对这一点再清楚不过了，因为如此值得玩味的设计效果是很难仅凭一己之力完成的。正如纳尔逊·洛克菲勒在现代主义尚无章法的时期，聘请了一系列艺术家那样，罗穆亚尔德斯和蕾妮·洛克菲勒在开拓创新上，也表现出了相似的品味。
But the two apartments have something else in common: despite priceless art collections in superb architectural envelopes, both feel like homes. Renee describes how some of her husband’s happiest childhood memories involved growing up in a household where he was allowed to play anywhere. Upon arriving at the Rockefellers’ Westchester estate, Kykuit, from Albany one evening, Nelson — then the governor of New York — found the boys playing baseball in the hallway using the Picasso tapestry as the backstop; he grinned at his sons, and didn’t say a word.
不过，两所公寓还表现出了其它共通之处：尽管两者都有着精巧的建筑结构和无价的艺术藏品，但它们都给人以家的感觉。据蕾妮描述，她的丈夫从小就能在家中任何地方玩耍，这才得以度过一段最快乐的童年时光。有一天晚上，时任纽约州州长的纳尔逊从奥尔巴尼（Albany，纽约州首府——译注）回到威斯特徹斯特县(Westchester)的洛克菲勒庄园(Kykuit)，发现孩子们在走廊上玩棒球，还把那张毕加索挂毯当做挡球网；见此情形，他对孩子们咧嘴笑了笑，什么也没说。
Here too on any given day, the entrance hall is filled with school backpacks and children are being shuttled to lacrosse games that seem to take place all over Westchester and Long Island simultaneously. As for this being a family apartment, Renee is as good as her word, and Mark’s father would be pleased by the traditions being upheld in this bustling household: when I visit, the entrance hall is full of the treasures by Arp and Giacometti I knew I would find, but pride of place goes to the much-used lacrosse goal.
如今，马克的公寓里也是一样。无论在什么日子，门廊上总是放满了学生的背包，一批又一批的孩子被送过来打长曲棍球比赛。这样的比赛似乎已在威斯特徹斯特县和长岛蔚然成风了。蕾妮就像她所说的那样，将这所公寓打造成了一个温馨的家。马克的父亲如果在世一定会很高兴，因为这个热闹的小家庭将家族的传统保留了下来：当我来访时，门廊里满是阿尔普（Arp，法国画家、雕刻家和诗人——译注）和贾柯梅蒂的艺术珍品，我知道自己会看到这些，但是这套住宅的荣耀，归属于那座经常使用的长曲棍球球门。