At 6:45 a.m. on a September day in Baltimore, when the heat was already loitering in the 80s and would eventually flirt with 100 degrees, Beau Willimon, the show runner for “House of Cards,” finished his first — or maybe second, or actually probably his third — cigarette of the day and stalked onto the show’s outdoor set. Every set of a TV show is a little reminiscent of a ragged Civil War camp, with its provisional tents and huddled groups of conferring higher-ups and wandering assistants tending to disparate needs. But on the “House of Cards” set — temporarily erected in a small park adjacent to a block of Baltimore townhouses — this feeling was heightened by the presence of Willimon, with his facial hair that might be best described as “sort-of mutton chops”; his beeline intensity; and, of course, that name: Beau Willimon, which seems perfectly suited to a brass plaque in the South somewhere, commemorating a particularly brave or foolhardy general. His hair was an unkempt pompadour, and he wore an untucked work shirt, unlaced work boots and jeans with a back pocket so tattered that it barely cradled his wallet, a situation that at least three people, including me, felt moved to warn him about it, though he waved each of us off in turn. He had the haunted look of a man who’s worried about something much more important, and he’d only just arrived on set.
6点45分，巴尔的摩一个9月的清晨，温度在80华氏度左右徘徊，之后还会升到100度左右，《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)的制作人鲍尔·威利蒙(Beau Willimon)抽完这天的第一支烟——也许是第二支或第三支——来到剧集的外景地。所有电视剧的片场都多少有点像南北战争期间乱七八糟的军营，到处都是临时帐篷，大人物们没完没了地磋商，助理们忙前忙后，应付各种需求。在《纸牌屋》片场（临时搭建在巴尔的摩一处联排别墅旁边的小花园里），这种感觉随着威利蒙的到来而升温了，首先因为他脸上的胡子 “有点像络腮胡”；还有他那直奔目的而去的热切劲头；当然，也是因为他的名字“鲍尔·威利蒙”很适合被刻在南方常见的某种黄铜饰板上，用来纪念一位英勇或莽撞的将军。他的头发乱七八糟地向后梳，工装衬衫没有扎进腰带里，工装靴的鞋带散着，牛仔裤的后袋破破烂烂，里面塞的钱包快掉出来了，包括我在内，至少有三个人提醒他，但他只是冲每个人挥挥手。他脸上带着那种为大事操心的人特有的苦恼神情，而他还只是刚刚来到片场而已。
Jodie Foster — she of the two Academy Awards — was directing this particular episode. Like many movie stars, Foster is tiny, and she wore flip-flops and a ball cap and a bandanna looped round her neck. She was talking with the director of photography about a shot that involved the politician Francis Underwood exiting his townhouse with his wife, Claire, walking down their front steps and mounting an outdoor lectern to address the assembled Washington press corps.
朱迪·福斯特(Jodie Foster)——就是得过两届奥斯卡奖的那位——正在导演其中一集。和许多电影明星一样，福斯特身材娇小，穿着人字拖，头戴棒球帽，颈上系着一块印花大手帕。她和摄影导演讨论片中一个镜头：政治家弗朗西斯·安德伍德(Francis Underwood)和妻子克莱尔(Claire)一起离开他们的房子，走下前门台阶，踏上门口搭建的小讲台，对一群华盛顿媒体团发表讲话。
It was a tricky shot to orchestrate, as it entailed positioning complicated light-reflecting panels and corralling a few dozen notebook-wielding actors playing disheveled Washington reporters, as well as a dozen or so more extras playing various cops and Secret Service security, and Kevin Spacey, of course, who plays Underwood, and Robin Wright, who plays Claire.
这个镜头需要细微的统筹，要安装复杂的反光板，调度几十个手里挥舞着笔记本、饰演乱成一团的华盛顿媒体记者的演员们，以及十几个饰演各种警察和特勤部保安的演员，当然还有饰演安德伍德的凯文·史派西(Kevin Spacey)和饰演克莱尔的罗宾·莱特(Robin Wright)。
As Foster and the D.P. stood across from the townhouse figuring out logistics, Willimon walked hurriedly across the small park to interrupt them. He was very concerned about the placement of the stanchions, those metal poles with velvet ropes clamped to them that are used everywhere to herd people, and that were being used here to corral the fake press. They’d been arranged in a U-shape facing away from the lectern, and Willimon felt compelled to point out that they wouldn’t be arranged that way in real life.
福斯特和摄影导演站在房子对面商议后勤工作，威利蒙匆忙穿过小公园打断他们。他非常关注临时护栏的位置，就是那种中间连接着丝绒绳索的金属小立柱，用来阻隔人群，这里是用来划定片中的媒体区。它们面向讲坛，排成U形，威利蒙觉得一定要指出，现实生活中护栏不是这样摆的。
Foster took the note agreeably, and she seemed as interested in this detail as anyone who has approximately 46,000 other details to worry about would be. Willimon also had about 46,000 details to worry about, maybe even 460,000 details, because this was just one episode in a whole season of “House of Cards,” and he is perpetually, even obsessively, interested in all the details, but at this moment, especially the stanchions. “It’s just that it wouldn’t be set up this way,” he explained again. He mentioned that, when he worked as an advance man on Howard Dean’s presidential campaign in 2003, one of his jobs was precisely the kind of press-corps wrangling that involved building temporary people corrals out of stanchions. Stanchion placement, it was clear, is the kind of detail that really matters to him, even if it means getting into an awkwardly insistent and prolonged conversation about it with two-time Oscar winner Jodie Foster.
福斯特愉快地接受了意见，她对这个细节的关注程度与任何要为4.6万多个细节操心的人也差不多。威利蒙也有4.6万多个细节要操心——也许是46万多个，因为眼前只是整季《纸牌屋》中的一集，而他不断地对各种细节产生兴趣，甚至到了强迫症的地步，特别是那些护栏。“它就是不应该这么放，”他再一次解释。他说，2003年他在霍华德·迪恩(Howard Dean)的总统竞选班底里当先遣助选员时，有一项工作正是和记者团为各种事争吵，比如这种金属立柱护栏的摆放位置之类的。显然，护栏位置对他来说是那种至关重要的细节，就算为此要与两届奥斯卡得主朱迪·福斯特进行一场尴尬、坚决、拖拖拉拉的对话也在所不惜。
Foster said she’d get the person on set whose job it is to worry about the stanchions to “look into it.” She smiled. Then Willimon politely agreed to let it go, though not before adding: “It’s just if you want to be accurate. It’s really up to you.”
福斯特笑着说，她会让片场专门负责护栏的人“好好研究一下”。然后威利蒙彬彬有礼地同意这个问题到此为止，不过还不忘加一句：“只是为了帮你保证准确性。你说了算。”
Then he threw his hands up in a kind of surrender and walked off to attend to yet another detail.
然后他做了个举手投降的姿势就走开了，去处理另一个细节。
Willimon is a 36-year-old playwright and screenwriter with an Academy Award nomination (Best Adapted Screenplay, for “The Ides of March,” which was based on his own play, “Farragut North”), a serious smoking habit and at least one quasi-emotional breakdown, which happened in his 20s, while he was living in Estonia. But perhaps the most telling detail he shared with me is that he writes the 150-character plot summaries that accompany each episode of “House of Cards” on Netflix. Not just the episodes — the summaries of the episodes. Before the first season of the show, which was released on Feb. 1 last year, Netflix sent him the summaries they wrote in house, which Willimon then rewrote. Now he writes all of them as a matter of course, a job that would normally be done by someone on the Netflix metadata team. “It just seemed easier,” he says.
36岁的威利蒙为舞台剧和电影撰写剧本，因《总统杀局》(The Ides of March)获得过奥斯卡最佳改编剧本奖提名，该剧本改编自他自己的舞台剧《法拉格特以北》(Farragut North)。他烟瘾很大，20多岁在爱沙尼亚生活期间有过至少一次精神崩溃的经历。但或许他让我看到的最有说服力的细节，正是他为《纸牌屋》在Nexflix播放时所写的每集150字内容提要。《纸牌屋》的第一季是去年2月1日播放的，在这之前，Netflix给他看公司内部写的每集提要，威利蒙看了就自己重写了一份。现在他自然而然地就为第二季写提要，这件事通常应该是由Netflix大数据组的人来干的。“顺手就写了，”他说。
Obviously, the job of any TV show runner is an immersive, even overwhelming one, but I believe this is truer for Willimon, who seems to eat, sleep and dream “House of Cards.” The first line of the bio on his Twitter page reads, “This is how I’ve spent the last four years of my life,” and then there’s a link to the “House of Cards” Twitter account. Over the course of assembling the show’s second season, all 13 episodes of which will be released at once on Feb. 14, he divided his time among a writing room in TriBeCa, a hotel in Baltimore and a not-at-all-glamorous trailer near wherever the show was shooting, in which he spent most of his days obsessively writing and rewriting new episodes and occasionally napping.
显然，任何电视剧的制片都会沉浸在自己的工作之中，甚至会觉得它将自己淹没，但我觉得威利蒙尤其是这样，他似乎吃饭、睡觉，做梦都在想着《纸牌屋》。他Twitter主页个人介绍的第一行写着“我就是这样度过了人生中的最近这四年：”接下来就是《纸牌屋》的Twitter账号连接。这部剧第二季的全部13集要在2月14日一口气推出，第二季拍摄期间，他不是呆在巴尔的摩的特里贝卡酒店房间（他用来当做写作室），就是呆在片场附近的简陋拖车里，跟着剧组到处走，一整天的大部分时间都用来创作或重写新一集的剧本，只是偶尔才打个瞌睡。
The result of all this near monastic devotion is a show that — even in a landscape newly populated with cynical-to-downright-nihilistic political shows, like “Veep” and “Scandal” and “Homeland” — stands out for its unblinking commitment to a singularly dark vision of politics. “House of Cards” is a very dark show. And this season, it gets darker.
这种近乎修道士般的献身精神使《纸牌屋》脱颖而出，虽然新近涌现出许多道德幻灭到近乎虚无主义的政治剧集，诸如《二当家》(Veep)、《丑闻》(Scandal)和《国土安全》(Homeland)，但《纸牌屋》还是格外引人注目。它毫不犹豫地展露政治的阴暗面，本来就非常黑暗，到了这一季就更黑暗。
A quick recap for the uninitiated: Francis Underwood, played by Spacey, is a congressman from South Carolina, who in the series’ premiere is passed over for the post of secretary of state and thereafter decides to indulge an unfettered and relentless pursuit of power and revenge. By season’s end (first-season spoilers coming! So many spoilers), he has positioned himself to take over the vacant vice presidency; bedded a young reporter; bribed a hooker; groomed a protégé to run for the governorship of Pennsylvania; sent that same protégé into a destructive personal spiral; then finally murdered him, framing it as a suicide. And that’s just in Season 1.
给没看过的读者简单介绍一下剧情：史派西饰演的弗朗西斯·安德伍德是来自南卡罗来纳州的众议员，在该剧第一集里没能当上国务卿，于是决定不择手段、冷酷残忍地谋求权力，展开报复行动。截止到第一季结尾（第一季剧透！下面还有大量剧透），他登上了空出来的副总统之位；和一个年轻记者上床；通过一个妓女行贿；培养一个被保护人去竞选宾夕法尼亚州州长，又让这个被保护人走上自我毁灭之路，最后杀死了他，并把现场伪装成自杀。这还只是第一季而已。
The show, which is based on a popular BBC series, has won three Emmy Awards and one Golden Globe, and much of its success can be attributed to its combination of canny verisimilitude (at one point, during a studio tour, Willimon explained with great excitement that Underwood’s office is a nearly exact replica of the actual House whip’s office, down to such details as the height of the light switches) and bald melodrama — acts of murder, manipulation and treachery that wouldn’t seem out of place in a Shakespearean drama. (Also not out of place in a Shakespearean drama are Underwood’s direct addresses to the camera, a stylistic flourish that is borrowed directly from the British version but that, thanks to Spacey’s unique and chilling Spacey-ness, have become a signature of the American version.) The show’s trailer for Season 2 promises more of the same, containing such heartwarming Underwood-isms as: “The road to power is paved with hypocrisy — and casualties.” And: “For those of us climbing to the top of the food chain, there can be no mercy.” Not to mention: “And the butchery begins.”
《纸牌屋》是根据一部大热BBC英剧改编，去年获得三项艾美奖和一项金球奖， 它的成功主要应当归功于高度的逼真（有一次，去制片厂路上，威利蒙兴奋地说安德伍德的办公室几乎和现实生活中众议院多数党督导的办公室一模一样，连照明灯开关高度这种细节都注意到了），此外还有极度耸人听闻的戏剧情节——剧中的谋杀、操纵和背叛即便放在莎士比亚戏剧中亦不逊色（剧中安德伍德直接面对镜头说话的方式也很像莎士比亚戏剧，这个风格上的花样其实是从原版英剧中借鉴而来，但史派西阴冷独特的演绎反而使它成了美剧版的一大特色）。第二季的宣传片向观众承诺会带来更多类似的东西，还有感人的安德伍德式格言，诸如“通往权力的道路是由伪善与牺牲品铺成”以及“对于我们这些攀上食物链顶端的人来说，没有怜悯可言”，更不用说那句“杀戮开始了”。
Willimon was drafted into the job of running the show by Media Rights Capital, the independent studio that bought the rights to a British series about a parliamentarian who schemed his way into becoming prime minister. MRC had previously recruited David Fincher, the Academy Award–nominated director, to come aboard as an executive producer, and together, in 2011, MRC and Fincher agreed to produce it for Netflix, which basically gave them a carte-blanche deal, with two seasons guaranteed in advance.
这部剧最初的英剧版本讲了一个国会议员靠阴谋当上首相的故事，独立制片公司媒体权益资源（Media Right Capital，下称MRC）买下版权，找来威利蒙担任制片。MRC事先请来曾获奥斯卡奖提名的导演大卫·芬奇(David Fincher)入伙，担任执行制片。2011年， Netflix向他们提供了一份全权合同，事先预定两季，于是MRC和芬奇决定把本片提供给Netflix。
Willimon was initially hesitant to join them, if only because he resisted the idea of being typecast as “the politics guy.” But there was an anarchic appeal to the project as well. They would be making a TV show. For Netflix. A company once best known for mailing DVDs to your home. “None of us had done TV before,” Willimon says. “Fincher hadn’t, I hadn’t. We weren’t bound by convention. We didn’t even know what the conventions were.”
威利蒙决定加入时有些犹豫，他有点不太愿意被定型为“搞政治的家伙”。但这个项目也有无政府主义的一面。他们是要为Netflix拍一部电视剧。这个公司曾经以提供DVD邮寄租借而闻名。“我们之前没有人搞过电视，”威利蒙说，“芬奇没搞过，我也没搞过，我们不受常规的局限。我们甚至都不知道常规是什么。”
What he did know upfront was that they would have at least 26 episodes in which to tell the story of Francis Underwood, a seductive and formidable assignment. Whereas Fincher would direct the first two episodes of the series, he would be free to work on other projects (he’s currently directing an adaptation of the hit novel “Gone Girl”). Willimon, by contrast, in becoming the show runner, was basically signing away the next four years of his life. Not only was there no guarantee that the show would find an audience; there was also no guarantee that it wouldn’t disappear completely into a great sea of streaming content on Netflix, the refuse of a failed attempt by an Internet company to sail into the treacherous waters of high-quality TV.
但他知道接下来他们得用至少26集来讲述弗朗西斯·安德伍德的故事，这真是一个充满诱惑而又可怕的任务。然而芬奇只执导该剧的前两集，然后就可以去搞别的项目了（目前他正在执导一部根据大热小说《消失的爱人》[Gone Girl]改编的剧集）。威利蒙则不然，他成了该片的制片，人生接下来的四年基本都要签给这部剧。没有人能保证这部剧集有观众 ，更没有人能保证它不会彻底消失在Netflix流媒体内容的汪洋大海之中——那是一家网络公司在高质量电视内容这个不靠谱的领域试水过程中，对于失败的拒绝。
Yet all of this uncertainty appealed to Willimon, who has a taste for creative anarchy. As he told an audience at a recent speaking engagement at the Harvard Business School, when asked about the current unsettled state of the industry at large: “I think it’s great because it’s total chaos. And chaos is good for artists. It allows them to exploit the cracks and crevices.”
然而这些不确定性却深深吸引着威利蒙，他喜欢创意领域内的混乱状态。最近在哈佛商学院一次演讲中，有人问他对电视工业最近不稳定的总体现状有何看法，他对观众们说：“我觉得这很棒，因为总体上一片混乱。混乱对艺术家有好处，能让他们探索各种缝隙和缺口。”
The metastory surrounding “House of Cards” is that Netflix is changing everything about how we watch TV — or everything about what was once commonly referred to as “TV” and might now be more correctly called “serialized stories we watch on screens.” It’s a good and attractive metastory, but perhaps not an entirely accurate one, at least from an artistic point of view. “House of Cards” is a high-gloss, high-quality drama that would not look out of place on HBO or Showtime, which, for Netflix, is precisely the point — to prove it belongs in the game, shoulder to shoulder with premium cable providers.
《纸牌屋》的核心是Netflix在改变我们观看电视的方式——或者说我们曾经用来泛指“电视”的东西，现在更准确的说法应该是“通过各种屏幕观看的连续剧”。这是个很好、很有吸引力的核心故事，但或许并不准确，至少从艺术的观点而言并非如此。《纸牌屋》是一部极为精致、质量极高的电视剧，放在HBO台或映时台(Showtime)亦不失色，对于Netflix来说，这一点才是至关重要的——要证明它属于这个行业，可以和那些收费有线台平起平坐。
Around three years ago, Netflix realized it had a problem: It was paying large sums to license other people’s content — TV shows and movies produced by other companies — in order to then show them to you, the Netflix subscriber, at home. This initially proved successful, but there were two troubling aspects to this model: 1) It left Netflix very vulnerable to competition, since the shows and movies it licensed could, theoretically, be licensed by anyone willing to outbid them, and 2) the most popular TV shows, episodic dramas like “CSI” and sitcoms like “The Big Bang Theory,” were already being sold for huge deals into syndication at basic cable channels like TBS and USA. What was left to Netflix were the kind of serialized shows that don’t typically play well in syndication, like “Lost” and “Breaking Bad,” which have complicated story arcs that compel a viewer to watch all the episodes in order. Traditionally, while these kinds of serialized shows could be big hits in their initial broadcast runs, they proved tough sells to aftermarkets, precisely because of the demands they placed on the audience.
大约在三年前，Netflix意识到自己的问题，它支付大笔金额购买别人的内容——其他公司制作的电视剧和电影——给在家订购Netflix产品的观众看。这种模式一开始很成功，但现在显现出两个令人不安的问题：第一，这让Netflix在竞争中处于脆弱的地位，因为从理论上而言，任何比他们出价高的人都可以得到这些电视剧和电影的播放权；第二，最热门的剧集，诸如系列剧《犯罪现场调查》(CSI)和情景喜剧《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)之类，已经以重金出售给TBS和USA这样的基本有线频道。因此Netflix只能得到在辛迪加卖得不好的剧集，诸如《迷失》(Lost)和《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)，这类剧集有复杂的情节，观众得按顺序看完剧集。传统上，这类连续剧首轮播放时会大热一时，但在二级市场就不好卖，因为它们对观众要求太高。
As to the first wrinkle, there was an obvious, if daunting, solution: Netflix could produce its own original content. This is obvious because it solved the problem of other people’s outbidding them, and daunting because, as dozens of channels and nearly every network continually remind us, producing shows that people actually care about and want to watch is an unpredictable and typically unsuccessful endeavor. But Netflix knew exactly what kind of show it wanted. Complex, serialized shows — the kind that Netflix’s nominal competitors shied away from because they were tough sells — actually did really well on Netflix. This online service where you could log in, surf through dozens of titles, then binge on any one show for as many episodes as you could stand, turned out to be a perfect platform for series like “Breaking Bad.” You could discover a show; you could sample it; then you could devour it. So all Netflix had to do was come up with its own show that people wanted to devour.
对于第一个问题，有一个简便但却令人望而生畏的解决办法：Netflix可以制作自己的原创内容。这个方案简单，因为显然可以解决有人比他们出价高的问题；令人望而生畏则是因为，几十个电视台，乃至所有电视网都在不断提醒我们，制作观众真正喜爱、真正想看的剧集是一件难以预测的事，通常不会成功。但Netflix知道自己想要什么——复杂、有连贯性的节目——这正是Netflix名义上的竞争对手们所回避的东西，因为它们不好卖，但它们在Netflix上的表现却很好。Netflix提供的网络在线服务让你可以登录上去，视线扫过在几十个剧集名字，然后锁定一部剧，一口气看上几十集，只要你受得了就行。对于《绝命毒师》这样的连续剧来说，这种平台堪称完美。你可以找到一部剧集，试着看一看，然后就拼命看完。Netflix要做的就只是自己制作一部让观众乐意拼命看完的剧集。
And here’s where Netflix has an additional edge over, say, Showtime: Netflix knows a lot about what you watch. Not just generally, but in a granular, data-driven, clicks-and-duration-of-viewing time way. It knows what everyone on Netflix watches, and how much they watch it, and how all of this might translate into what people want to watch next. So if Netflix finds out that David Fincher is producing a political thriller with the possible involvement of Kevin Spacey, it can comb through its viewer data and find out exactly how many of its subscribers like films by David Fincher, and political thrillers, and things that star Kevin Spacey.
和映时之类对手相比，Netflix还有一个特别的优势：对于观众们在看什么，Netflix了解很多。不是泛泛的了解，而是非常详细，有数据支持，观众在整个观看期间的点击和持续时间它都掌握。它知道每一个Netflix上的观众都在看什么，他们怎么看，还知道该怎样把这些数据转换为“观众接下来想看什么”。所以，假如由大卫·芬奇制作一部政治悬疑剧，或许再让凯文·史派西加入，其结果会怎样？如果Netflix想知道这个问题的答案，它会梳理观众数据，寻找究竟有多少订阅用户喜欢大卫·芬奇的电影，多少人喜欢政治悬疑剧，多少人喜欢影星凯文·史派西。
Those numbers, it turned out, were strong. So when Fincher was pitching “House of Cards” to various studios in 2011, Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, didn’t need to hear the pitch. Thanks to his data, he was already sold. Going into his meeting with Fincher, Sarandos decided, “I want to pitch him on us.”
最终结果显示这些数据很强大。所以，2011年，芬奇向各个制片公司推荐《纸牌屋》的时候，Netflix的内容总监泰德·萨伦多斯(Ted Sarandos)根本用不着去听推荐内容。根据芬奇的数据，他的东西肯定能卖出去。和芬奇会晤的时候，萨伦多斯决定：“我决定向他推荐我们。”
“There are a thousand reasons you shouldn’t do this with Netflix,” he told Fincher, but one big reason he should: The tantalizing offer of two full, 13-episode seasons, guaranteed upfront. No ratings to worry about. No time slots to battle over. Netflix was committing to purchasing 26 hours of original content with essentially no artistic interference. In return, the company would get a flagship show with a movie-star cast and an Academy Award-nominated executive producer. And it would launch not only as the first big show on Netflix but also as the first big show not on traditional TV. When you look at it that way, it made perfect sense to all involved.
“你有一千个理由不和Netflix合作，”他对芬奇说，但要与Netflix合作却有一个最大的理由：它承诺预定完整的两季，每季13集，保证提前付酬。不用担心收视率，不用争取时段。Netflix承诺买下26小时的原始内容，在艺术上基本不做干涉。而它得到的回报就是一部重要剧集，演员阵容由电影明星组成，还有一位获得奥斯卡奖提名的执行制片人。这不仅是Netflix推出的第一部重头戏，也是第一部不在传统电视上推出的重头戏。如果以这个角度来看，这次合作对各方都是非常有意义的。
Despite his full name — Pack Beauregard Willimon — and the provenance of his lead character, Willimon is not from the Deep South. His father was in the Navy, and Willimon was born in Virginia and grew up mostly in Philadelphia and later St. Louis after his father retired from the Navy to become a lawyer. Willimon then headed to New York to study at Columbia. After he graduated, he got a temporary job in Estonia, working for the government, sorting through thousands of pages of E.U.-related documents and writing summaries of them. This is when he had his breakdown — “partly because the sun never set, and partly because I didn’t know what I was doing with my life, and partly because there’s a dark side of me that can surface from time to time,” he says. “I had panic attacks, depression, all those sorts of things, and I was 3,000 miles from anyone I knew or cared about. I came back to New York, and that sort of continued, and there wasn’t any light at the end of the tunnel. So I went back to St Louis to stay with my parents for a few months and get back on track.”
威利蒙的全名是帕克·博勒嘉德·威利蒙（Pack Beauregard Willimon，博勒嘉德是南北战争期间一位南方将军的名字——译注），他笔下的男主角出身南方，但他本人却并非来自南方腹地。他的父亲曾在海军服役，威利蒙出生在弗吉尼亚，成长期间主要住在费城，父亲退役后成了律师，他又随父亲移居到圣路易斯。后来威利蒙来到纽约，在哥伦比亚大学读书，毕业后得到一份临时工作，在爱沙尼亚为政府工作，给成千上万份和欧盟有关的文件分类并撰写摘要。正是在这期间他经历了精神崩溃——“部分是因为那里太阳一直不落下，部分是因为我不知道自己的人生到底是用来做什么了，部分是因为我内心阴暗的东西不时浮出水面，”他说。“我患上了急性焦虑发作、抑郁症，还有各种各样的东西，所有我认识和在乎的人都在3000英里之外。我回到纽约，症状还在持续，隧道尽头并没有出现光亮。于是我回到圣路易斯和父母呆了几个月，一切才回到轨道上。”
He eventually returned to New York and was accepted into Columbia’s M.F.A. playwriting program. “I was the worst student by far in our group. A lot of these people had known they wanted to be playwrights forever. I didn’t know a soul in the theater world, and I didn’t have the faintest idea how to truly write a play. But I quit drinking then and really committed myself to this path.”
最后他回到纽约，在哥伦比亚上编剧硕士课程。“我是班上最差的学生。他们当中很多人都知道自己想终身从事编剧职业。我对戏剧世界却一无所知，我一点都不知道该怎么真正去写一个剧本。但我戒了酒，然后专心致志地走这条路。”
As an undergrad, Willimon helped out on a few political campaigns, starting with the Senate bid in 1998 of Charles Schumer, who would upset the incumbent, Alfonse D’Amato. This gave him a taste for politics — and inspiration for his play “Farragut North,” which he sent out to 40 theaters around the country, all of which rejected it. But he was able to land an agent, who shopped it in Hollywood, and Warner Bros. eventually bought it to turn it into the George Clooney film “The Ides of March,” which Willimon adapted, and which, more than anything, led to his being the show runner and fervid brain behind the darkest political show ever made.
大学尚未毕业期间，威利蒙曾在一些政治宣传活动中帮过忙，最开始是1998年查尔斯·舒莫(Charles Schumer)的参议员选举，他的参选令当时在任的阿方斯·达马托(Alfonse D’Amato)非常不安。威利蒙就这样有了政治方面的体验，这启发他写下了剧本《法拉格特以北》，他把这个剧本寄给全国的40多个剧团，结果全部被拒。但他找到了一个中介公司，把这个剧本提供给好莱坞和华纳兄弟公司，最终卖了出去，成了乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)的电影《总统杀局》，电影剧本也是由威利蒙改编，正是这部戏使他成了《纸牌屋》这部迄今为止最黑暗的政治剧集的制片和狂热主脑。
There are few things that Willimon likes to talk about more than writing, and so the writers’ room of “House of Cards” feels a bit like a graduate seminar on character development, led by a particularly enthusiastic young professor. For this past season, the writers’ room was located in a rented loft in TriBeCa, with a wide-planked timber floor and exposed brick walls. A huge whiteboard contained an episode-by-episode breakdown, with updates on every character, even minor ones, and it took roughly five seconds of scanning the board for me to encounter what qualifies as a super-duper-double-major spoiler.
威利蒙最喜欢聊的莫过于写作，因此《纸牌屋》的编剧室有点像研究生举办的角色塑造研讨会，由一个特别热心的年轻教授主持。写第一季的时候，编剧室设在翠贝卡一处租来的loft里面，地上铺着宽木条，四壁是红砖墙。一块巨大的白板上写着每一集的分解图，包括每个角色的最新进展情况，甚至包括那些小角色们。我花了大约五秒钟的时间把整块白板扫了一遍，了解到一些超级剧透的内容。
Meanwhile, Willimon stood in front of a table full of writers and spoke, while the writers, many of them playwrights whose work he admired, sat and listened and occasionally chimed in. One writer, whose back was toward me, idly surfed the Internet: He researched a plane ticket, then checked out an Airbnb listing for a tropical getaway for $99 a night, then bought some camping gear, then browsed an article with the headline “The Top Five Regrets of the Dying.”
与此同时，威利蒙站在桌前侃侃而谈，桌边坐满了编剧们，他们当中很多人写过令他仰慕的剧本，此时他们都坐在那儿听着，偶尔插上一句话。一个编剧背向着我，懒洋洋地浏览着网页，他先是搜索机票，然后又在Airbnb网站上寻找99美元一晚的热带出租屋，买了一些露营器材，最后又开始浏览一篇网文，题为“人们临终前最后悔的五件事”。
Most of the wide-ranging conversation wasn’t about untangling particularly knotty plot considerations but rather, more grandly, about character. Why would someone do that? was a question Willimon circled back to again and again. For all its treachery and dark machinations, “House of Cards” is, in the end, about characters. The show’s most interesting dynamic is between Francis and his wife, Claire, who started out as a kind of familiar Lady Macbeth-style evil-whisperer but has since flowered into one of the more fascinating female characters on TV. (Robin Wright won this year’s Golden Globe for best actress in a dramatic series, beating out, among others, Kerry Washington and Julianna Margulies, which might have seemed like an upset only to anyone who has never watched “House of Cards.”) The whole show could easily be retitled “Scenes From a Marriage,” assuming the average marriage vows were recast as “for richer or poorer, in sickness and in health, and in ambition and venality and mutual gain, forever and ever, always.”
这些范围广泛的谈话大部分不是为了解决某个具体的棘手情节，而是讨论更宏大的角色问题。某人为什么要做这件事？这是威利蒙一再提出的问题。《纸牌屋》中有着种种背叛和阴暗的诡计，但它归根结底是关于人物。剧集最有趣的推动力发生在弗朗西斯和他的妻子克莱尔之间，一开始，她像我们熟悉的麦克白夫人一样，是邪恶的低语者，但后来就发展成最迷人的女性电视角色之一——罗宾·莱特赢得了本年度金球奖剧情类最佳女主角奖，战胜了包括凯莉·华盛顿(Kerry Washington)和朱莉安娜·玛格里斯(Julianna Margulies)在内的竞争对手，只有根本没看过《纸牌屋》的人才会对这个结果感到不满。整部剧集其实可以改名《婚姻生活片段》，不过婚姻誓词得改成“无论贫穷或富裕，无论疾病或健康，无论是野心、腐败还是共同利益，忠诚到永远”。
Another way to look at “House of Cards” is as a show obsessed — like Willimon — with the idea of power: in workplaces, in marriages, in life and of course in politics. Jay Carson, a longtime friend of Willimon’s who is also a well-connected former press liaison for Hillary Clinton, a former chief deputy mayor of Los Angeles and a political consultant to the show, told me: “Everybody, almost to a person, in every party, comes to Washington initially for the right reasons. But some people, and it’s not a small amount, lose sight of why they came there. It becomes, for a significant portion, a quest for more power.”
另一种看待《纸牌屋》的方式，是把它当成一部执迷于（威利蒙也是个执迷的人）权力的剧集：在工作场合，在婚姻中，在生活里，乃至在政治活动中都是如此。杰伊·卡森(Jay Carson)是威利蒙的老朋友，人脉活络，是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的前任媒体联络员，还曾经当过洛杉矶的副市长，在《纸牌屋》中担任政治顾问。他告诉我：“所有人，几乎是每个党派中的每一个人，在他最早来到华盛顿时都是为着正确的理由而来。但其中为数不少的人忘记了自己当初来到这里的原因。他们的动机有很大一部分变成了追逐更多权力。”
Back in 2003, Carson was working on Howard Dean’s presidential campaign, and he recruited Willimon to join him. When you think about that campaign, you most likely remember one thing: The Dean Scream, which effectively ended Dean’s presidential aspirations. Talking about it now, Willimon says that the Scream — that momentary outburst of stump-speech enthusiasm that was played on a loop for weeks, recasting Dean as possibly unhinged and, even worse, unpresidential — is not what did the candidate in. It was the fateful days afterward, when the campaign failed to respond in an effectively aggressive way. “The thought in the campaign was, Let’s take the high road,” Willimon said. “It’s a way of saying, ‘My detractors have no power, because they have no ability to affect me.’ In reality, though, it ended up being about forfeiting power by not responding quickly enough.”
2003年，卡森曾在霍华德·迪恩(Howard Dean)的总统竞选班子中工作，还雇来了威利蒙。回忆那次竞选，人们记住的很可能只有一件事：迪恩的咆哮，其结果就是实质上终结了迪恩的总统梦。迪恩的咆哮是他在政治演说中热情洋溢的瞬间爆发，结果这段录像被放在网上重复播放了好几个星期，让他显得好像精神病，更糟的是，显得根本没有总统气质。现在聊起这件事，威利蒙说，并不是那个咆哮导致了迪恩的失败，而是因为其后那些生死攸关的日子里，竞选班子没有采取有效的积极回应。“竞选班子的想法是：我们行得正做得直，随它去吧，”威利蒙说。“这也就是说：‘贬低我们的人没有力量，因为他们无法影响我。’不过事实上，因为没有做出足够快的反应，最后我们的力量的确被削弱了。”
Describing it now, he uses this analogy: “I’m standing on a corner, and I’ve been waiting there for 15 minutes, and I’m trying to hail a cab. And just as I’m about to get in, someone rushes up and gets in. I have a lot of choices in that moment: I could open that door and yank that person out. I could bang on the window and flip them the bird but let them have the cab. I could say nothing and stew in my own anger. Or I could be super-Zen about it and let them go and figure, another cab will come.” Transactions of that nature fascinate Willimon — they are the heart of all great drama, he says. Continuing with his cab analogy: “Who has the power there? Do I have the power because I didn’t let this ruffle my feathers? Or does that person have the power because I let them walk all over me? When you put that on the political stage, there are real stakes to it. And there are people who make a living thinking about these sorts of transactions.”
为了说明白，他打了个比方：“我站在角落里，想打车，已经等了15分钟。正要上车时，有人冲过来抢在前面挤进去。这个时候我有很多种选择：我可以打开车门，把那家伙拽出来。我可以敲敲车窗，对他们竖中指，但还是把出租车让给他们。我也可以什么都不说，自己生闷气。我也可以采取‘禅定’的方法来看待这个问题，让他们走掉，想着下一辆车总会来的。”这些处理方式的本质让威利蒙着迷——他说，它们其实就是一切伟大戏剧的核心。他接着拿打车打比方：“这儿谁掌握着权力？我克制住不发火就能掌握权力吗？抑或是那个人掌握了权力，因为我让他占我便宜了？如果你把这些放在政治舞台上，就会产生真正的重大利害。有些人就专靠思考这些处理方式为生。”
The Dean Scream, then, functioned as a kind of protean moment that forever shaped Willimon’s political, and dramatic, outlook: What is the nature of political power? What is the nature of personal power? How do the two intersect? On that stage in Iowa, where Howard Dean’s presidential dream died, the philosophy of “House of Cards” was born.
“迪恩的咆哮”是一个决定性的时刻，最终改变了威利蒙的政治观与戏剧观。政治权力的本质是什么？个人权力的本质又是什么？二者又如何互相影响？就在爱荷华，在霍华德·迪恩总统梦破碎的讲坛上，《纸牌屋》中的哲学诞生了。
Willimon paused in the retelling, intrigued all over again by the complexity of the situation. “That decision” — how to respond to a moment of public embarrassment and media distortion, how to counter, and outflank, the people who are trying to define, and defeat, you — “is the sort of thing Francis Underwood is thinking about all the time.”
威利蒙在叙述时中断了一下，再一次沉浸在当时复杂的情况之中。出事之后，该怎样回应公共场合的尴尬时刻与媒体的歪曲，该怎样包抄反击那些想要限制你、打败你的人？“这样的决定正是弗兰西斯·安德伍德每时每刻都在思考的问题。”
In the first few weeks after the first season was released, Willimon would occasionally go to Netflix late at night and scroll through the one- and two-star reviews for his show. As a writer, he feels as if he has a pretty good idea of what he does well, and usually some idea of what he’s not getting right, but he thought there might be further lessons in any consistent complaints about the show. Again, the little things.
第一季播出后的头几个星期，威利蒙偶尔会在深夜上Netflix网站，浏览那些只给该剧打一星或者两星的评论。作为编剧，当他写出好东西时自己心里有数，如果什么地方不对，通常心里也能明白，但他觉得，如果人们对这部剧的批评有一致性，那他肯定能从中进一步汲取教训。这里，他还是在关注细节。
There were two trends that he noticed: One, lots of people preferred, and remained loyal to, the British version, which he figured was probably inevitable and impossible to counter. Two, many viewers found the show overly cynical. “There are people who don’t like the level of darkness, who find the characters unsympathetic,” Willimon realized. “And we need to own that.” He considered whether he should leaven the show’s darkness or introduce some new, more decent characters, in an effort to turn some of those one- and two- star reviews into three or four stars. In short, if he should pump up the likability factor, which would no doubt be the very first note he’d receive from network executives if the show were on a network. But he decided against it. “Anyone who’s going to like this show is not going to be the sort of person who needs to like the characters in a way where they want to have a beer with them, or invite them into their home. Someone who’s not into that, it’s not the right show for them. I’m not trying to reach those people.”
他注意到两种趋势：其一，很多人更喜欢英国版，对它保持着忠诚，他觉得这不可避免，也无法反驳。其二，很多观众觉得这部剧太道德幻灭。“有人不喜欢这种黑暗的基调，觉得局中人都太冷漠，”威利蒙说，“我们得承认这一点。”他考虑是否应当改变这部剧的黑暗氛围，或者引入几个体面点的新角色，好让有些一星或者两星的评论变成三星或四星。简而言之，他是不是应该在剧中加入一点讨人喜欢的元素呢——假如这部剧在电视网上播出，这肯定会是电视网的高管们给他的第一条意见。但他决定不这么干。“喜欢这部剧的观众用不着去喜欢剧中的人物，用不着去和剧中人把酒言欢，也用不着请他们到自己家里做客。有些人不怎么喜欢这部剧，只是因为这部剧不适合他们。我也不想去讨好那些人。”
Part of what has made “House of Cards” so successful — and what sets it apart from its political-snake-pit brethren — is how Willimon’s personal obsession about power, and the freedom Netflix grants him to explore it, dovetails so perfectly with our collective impressions of the current political arena. You can make the case that “House of Cards” will one day seem as instructive about our current political moment as “The West Wing” was of its political moment. The latter show appeared in 1999 as a kind of late-Clinton-era liberal cri de coeur, full of dedicated, snappily literate bureaucrats who would always win their debates, serving under an unimpeachable President-Dad whose moral compass never wavered from true north. Aaron Sorkin’s “West Wing” was a vision of American government, presided over by a morally righteous liberal leader, unfolding each week even as Bill Clinton was assailed for abandoning liberal principles and subsuming important issues in his own moral messiness. Jed Bartlet was the kind of president, albeit fictional, we could believe in.
《纸牌屋》这样成功，能在其他众多反映政治黑暗的剧集中脱颖而出，部分是因为威利蒙对权力的迷恋，Netflix也给了他自由探索的权利，而他的妄想正好吻合我们对当今政界的普遍印象。你可以想见，《纸牌屋》有一天可以帮助人们了解我们当前时代的政治形势，正如《白宫风云》(The West Wing)有助于人们了解那个时候的政治形势一样。《白宫风云》在1999年上映，堪称克林顿执政末期自由主义的大声疾呼。充满奉献精神，充满生机活力的文化官僚总能在争辩中获胜，他们之上是一位无可指摘、道德准则从不动摇的老爸式总统。阿伦·索尔金(Aaron Sorkin)的《白宫风云》是美国政府的一个版本，它由人品正直、信奉自由主义的领袖主持着。就连比尔·克林顿被指责放弃了自由主义原则，自己的道德也出了很大问题的时候，这部剧也是每周照播不误。杰德·巴特勒（Jed Bartlet，剧中总统——译注）是这样一种总统，虽然他是虚构的，但我们仍然可以相信他。
The politicians in “House of Cards,” by contrast, are morally bankrupt and endlessly opportunistic. The show is no cri de coeur, but a cold dissection of the post-Obama (or post-the-Obama-many-hoped-they’d-elected), post-hope political landscape. It’s a vision of American government not as we wish it were, but as we secretly fear it is. Good old Jed Bartlet wouldn’t last a single news cycle here.
相反，《纸牌屋》中的政客都是完全没有道德可言，是彻底的机会主义者。这部剧不是什么大声疾呼，而是对后奥巴马时代（或者说人们投票时心目中的那个奥巴马），对一个不再相信希望的世界的冷酷解剖。在这个世界里，美国政府不再是我们希望的样子，而是我们暗地里担心的样子。在这里，老好人杰德·巴特勒连一个新闻周期都撑不过去。
After his talk at the Harvard Business School, the students — a fresh-faced crowd of tomorrow’s titans — were invited to ask Willimon questions. The first few stuck to the theme of television and disruption, and the ever-shifting landscape, and, most crucial, what sorts of business opportunities all this might present. Willimon gave several ready answers about chaos and possibility and artistic innovation and risk.
威利蒙在哈佛商业学院的演讲结束后请学生们提问——台下坐着一群面孔光洁的明日巨擘。第一批问题是关于电视与破坏性的主题，乃至不断变化的业界局势，以及最重要的问题：将来会出现什么样的商机。威利蒙说了几个早已经准备好的答案，讲了讲关于混乱、可能性、艺术创新与风险的问题。
Then one student held up a hand and asked, “What truth about the world do you feel you’ve illuminated in the ‘House of Cards’ stories?”
然后有个学生举手问到：“你觉得自己通过《纸牌屋》的世界所阐明的真理是什么呢？”
Willimon laughed. Then he countered: “What truth have I illuminated? Have I illuminated any truths for you?”
威利蒙笑了。然后他反问：“我阐明了什么真理？我为你阐明了什么真理吗？”
“I wanted to hear your perspective,” the student said.
“我想听听你的意见，”那个学生说。
“That’s an unfair question, and I’ll tell you why,” Willimon answered. “Because if I have to tell you what truths I think I’ve illuminated, then I haven’t done my job.”
“这是个不公平的问题，我来告诉你为什么，”威利蒙答道。“因为如果我必须告诉你我阐明了什么真理，那说明我的工作做得不够好。”
The exchange reminded me of one thing he said as we drove on a long and bleak freeway in rural Maryland in his stale-smoke-smelling Audi rental, the one he was using to shuttle himself back and forth between New York and Baltimore. While it may not quite qualify as an illuminated truth, it can certainly stand as a kind of artistic manifesto, one that recognizes politics as a stage on which deeper human truths are consistently revealed. “All relationships are transactional,” Willimon told me as we drove. “Even love. Love might be the most transactional relationship of all.”
这段对话让我想起他对我说的一件事，当时我们正在开着他租来的烟味缭绕的奥迪车，沿着马里兰荒凉漫长的乡间公路行驶，他就是开着这辆车在纽约和巴尔的摩之间往返。当时他的话不太像是在阐释真理，更像是某种艺术宣言，一种把政治视为揭示人类深刻本性舞台的宣言。“一切关系都是交易性的，”威利蒙一边开车一边说，“就连爱也是如此，爱可能是一切关系中交易性最强的一种。”