SHENZHEN, China — There isn’t much to see in Qianhai today except for a tract of muddy, mostly undeveloped land that has been reclaimed from the sea in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, near the border with Hong Kong.
中国深圳——在深圳的前海，我们如今能看到的，无非是基本由填海造地而成且尚未开发的大片泥泞土地。
A gleaming meeting hall built by the local government to host potential investors sits largely marooned, surrounded by dusty plots of new land that run for miles in every direction. The steady clang of passing dump trucks fills the air.
当地政府建起一座崭新的会议中心，用来招待潜在的投资客。四周是尘土飞扬的新地块，向周边绵延数公里。往来的自卸式卡车不断发出巨大的噪音。
Six years from now, officials here envision, Qianhai will be a thriving, international finance district in Shenzhen that will stand shoulder to shoulder with Wall Street, the City of London or Hong Kong’s Central District. The local government anticipates a working population of 650,000 people generating annual gross domestic product of around $25 billion in Qianhai by 2020 — plans that call for total investment of nearly 400 billion renminbi, or about $65 billion.
当地官员畅想，六年以后，前海会成为深圳市一个繁荣的国际化金融中心，与华尔街、伦敦金融城和香港中环比肩而立。当地政府预计，到2020年，前海会有65万的劳动力人口，每年带来约250亿美元（约合1550亿人民币）的国内生产总值(GDP)——这些计划需要总额近4000亿人民币的投资，相当于650亿美元。
But Wall Street and its counterparts didn’t become global financial centers by way of government fiat. For China, the challenge is fundamental; gently easing the state’s grip on the financial system after decades of heavy-handed control. It’s a bold blueprint.
但华尔街等地并非是通过政府指令成为国际金融中心的。对于中国来说，挑战触及最基础的层面：在数十年的紧抓不放之后，如何温和地放松政府对金融体系的掌控。这是一个大胆的蓝图。
Qianhai is one of more than 10 newly created or proposed special zones, including the better-known Shanghai free trade zone, where China plans to experiment with a new wave of financial overhauls.
前海是中国十几个新建或计划成立的经济特区之一，更广为人知的上海自由贸易区也在此列。中国正计划在上海自贸区内试验一系列新的金融改革措施。
The changes, first outlined in November by President Xi Jinping, serve as a recognition of the dangerous imbalances created by the investment-led growth model that has powered China since the financial crisis. Policy makers want to deflate these risks by reining in the nation’s reliance on cheap debt, modernizing the state-controlled financial system and refocusing the economy on domestic consumption.
中国国家主席习近平在去年11月首次描述了这些改革的框架。而这些改革的推出可以说是承认了以投资为主导的增长模式产生了危险的失衡，虽然此模式自金融危机以来一直在为中国提供增长动力。政策制定者希望降低这些风险，办法是抑制中国对廉价贷款的依赖，使政府控制的金融系统现代化，以及调整经济重点、聚焦国内消费。
One crucial component of this strategy is to ease government currency controls, allowing a freer flow of Chinese money into foreign stock, bond and property markets and granting overseas investors more access to domestic markets. Here, Qianhai hopes to play a major role.
这种战略中一个至关重要的部分就是减少政府对货币的管控，允许中国的钱更为自由地流向国际证券、债券以及房地产市场，同时给予海外投资者更多进入国内市场的机会。前海希望能在这一进程中担当起重要角色。
It is a risky proposition. Many nations have been thrown into financial turmoil after moving too quickly to loosen currency controls and open their financial markets.
这是一个冒险的建议。很多国家因为在汇率控制和放开金融市场的步伐上走得太快，陷入了金融动荡。
Some analysts say China’s leaders have little choice. They argue that continuing to rely on credit-fueled investment for growth will only delay China’s day of economic reckoning, raising the risk of even bigger problems down the road.
一些分析人士称，中国领导人没有太多的选择。他们认为，继续依赖信贷推动投资的增长模式，只会推迟中国经济的清算之日，提升日后产生更严重问题的风险。
“Opening the capital account and pushing ahead with overall financial market reform is absolutely crucial for sustaining higher growth rates than the rest of the world,” said Diana Choyleva, the head of macroeconomic research at Lombard Street Research in London. “If they don’t go down the route of reform now, and they get cold feet and go back to just throwing money at the economy to get growth, we are going to have a whopping big financial crisis within a couple of years.”
“中国要保持比世界其他地区更高的增长率，那么开放资本账户以及坚决推进金融市场的全面改革，就绝对是至关重要的，”伦敦朗伯德街研究公司(Lombard Street Research)宏观经济研究总监戴安娜·乔伊列娃(Diana Choyleva)说。“如果他们现在不走向改革，临阵退缩，并回到大笔撒钱以求经济增长的老路上，我们将会在未来几年内面临一场巨大的金融危机。”
Analysts have described Mr. Xi’s proposals as the biggest changes to the country’s financial landscape in decades. Officials in Qianhai are fond of pointing out that Mr. Xi’s first trip outside Beijing after taking over as head of the Communist Party in late 2012 was to Shenzhen and Qianhai, where he spoke of national rejuvenation and the pursuit of what he has called the “Chinese dream.”
分析人士称，习近平提出的方案将为中国金融版图带来几十年来的最大变化。前海的官员们总是乐于指出，习近平在2012年末当选为中共中央总书记后的第一次出行就到了深圳和前海，他在那里谈到了民族复兴以及他所说的对“中国梦”的追寻。
“The goal of Qianhai is to be a dream factory for the Chinese dream,” said He Zijun, deputy director of the Qianhai Authority, which administers the zone.
前海管理局副局长何子君说，“前海的目标就是成为中国梦的梦工厂。”
Mr. Xi’s southern tour was symbolic. Many Chinese instantly recognized it as a tribute to a famed 1992 trip to Shenzhen by Deng Xiaoping, the paramount leader who in 1978 began China’s transformation into an economic powerhouse. Deng loosened the state’s grip on the economy, using Shenzhen as a petri dish for experiments in freewheeling capitalism.
习近平的南巡具有象征意义。许多中国人立刻认识到了它的重要性，认为这次出行是向著名的1992年邓小平南巡致敬。正是这位前最高领导人在1978年开启了中国走向经济强国的改革之路。邓小平放松了政府对经济的控制，将深圳作为实践自由资本主义的培养皿。
“For the past 30 years Shenzhen has led the reform and opening up process in China,” Mr. He said. “In the future we hope that Qianhai can continue to be a test ground for further reform and opening up, and we can set an example for all other regions.”
“过去30年，深圳引领了中国改革开放的进程，” 何子君说。“未来，我们希望前海能继续成为进一步改革开放的实验田，也成为所有其他地区的范例。”
Things are off to a modest start. Beijing gave the green light for Qianhai’s unique status in 2010. Since then, local officials have auctioned several blocks of land. Several banks, including Standard Chartered and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Bank, have opened small branch offices in the district.
一切正在低调地展开。2010年，北京批准了前海的特区地位。自那以后，地方政府已拍出了几块地。渣打银行(Standard Chartered)、香港恒生银行(Hang Seng Bank)等数家银行已在区内开设了小型办事机构。
Few foreign investors have made major investments in Qianhai so far. But players like Silverstein Properties, the developer of the new towers at the World Trade Center site in New York, are starting to take note.
迄今为止，还没有多少外国投资者在前海做出大笔投资。但是纽约世贸中心(World Trade Center)新楼开发商美国兆华斯坦地产公司(Silverstein Properties)等投资者已开始将目光投向前海。
In January, Silverstein teamed up with a Chinese firm in a winning bid of 13.4 billion renminbi for a plot of land in the district — a record for the city of Shenzhen. The developer acquired rights to a 550,000-square-foot site, where it plans to build offices, retail outlets, service apartments and hotels covering a total floor area of nearly five million square feet, more than twice the floor area of the Empire State Building.
1月，兆华斯坦与一家中国公司合作，以134亿元人民币成功拍下了特区内的一块土地，创下了深圳的最高土地拍卖价。兆华斯坦由此取得了一块55万平方英尺（约合5.1万平方米）土地的开发权，计划在那里建造办公楼、商场、服务式公寓和酒店，总建筑面积近500万平方英尺，是帝国大厦建筑面积的两倍多。
“Thanks to its policies, location, transportation access and world-class architecture, I believe that Qianhai will become one of the most successful business districts in the world,” Marty Burger, the chief executive of Silverstein, said in a statement last month.
兆华斯坦首席执行官马蒂·伯格(Marty Burger)上个月在一份声明中说，“由于它享受的政策、地理位置、交通的便利性和世界级的建筑设计水准，我相信前海将成为世界上首屈一指的商业中心。”
In an effort to attract the foreign investors needed to fill all those offices, Qianhai officials frequently promote the district’s 15 percent corporate tax rate — compared with the 25 percent national rate and 16.5 percent in nearby Hong Kong. But details of how to qualify for tax breaks have yet to be released by the country’s Ministry of Finance, which is concerned about the effect it might have on other Chinese cities, according to Peter Kung, a senior partner responsible for southern China at KPMG.
为了吸引外国投资者来入驻所有这些办公楼宇，前海政府不断宣传特区15%的企业税率，这要低于全国25%的水平和附近香港的16.5%的标准。但是毕马威(KPMG)华南区首席合伙人龚永德(Peter Kung)认为，中国的财政部担心这种减税优惠可能会影响中国的其他城市，因而还没有宣布享受减税的具体资格。
In Shanghai’s free trade zone, which was officially opened in September, officials have promised a sweeping relaxation of China’s current restrictions on financial activity. In December, the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, issued a 30-point proposal that included floating interest rates and allowing foreign involvement in areas including currency and futures trading and domestic bond sales.
在去年9月正式开张的上海自贸区，官方承诺将全面放开中国当前对金融活动的各种限制。12月，央行中国人民银行公布了30条意见，其中包括了实行浮动利率，以及允许外商投资进入外汇交易、期货交易和国内债券发行等领域。
But again, the details, have yet to be announced. Shanghai officials have published a lengthy list of activities and industries that are off-limits in the zone — with the implication that if something is not banned, it is allowed. The so-called negative list closely mirrors China’s current restrictions on foreign investment. For example, within the zone, foreign ownership is capped at 49 percent for brokerages and 50 percent for car factories — the same as anywhere else in China.
但同样的，相关细则也还没有出台。上海市政府公布了一长列自贸区内禁止的活动和行业，暗示如非禁止即为可行。这份所谓的限制列表与中国现行的对外商投资的限制极其接近。例如，自贸区内外商在证券公司的参比上限为49%，在汽车制造业的上限为50%，和中国其他地区的标准一样。
There also appears to be little consensus in China about how companies within these special zones will trade or interact with companies or customers in the rest of the country, or whether they will be permitted to do so at all.
至于这些特区内的企业如何与特区外中国其他地方的企业和客户进行贸易往来和互动，以及它们是否可以这么做，目前中国各方似乎都没有达成一致。
“Whilst they’ll be useful petri dishes for experimenting on open capital accounts and everything else, I think they’ll be pretty limited in terms of how they can operate because you still have to ring-fence the special economic zone,” said Matthew Sutherland, the senior investment director for equities in Asia at Fidelity Worldwide Investment.
富达全球投资(Fidelity Worldwide Investment)亚太区股票部高级投资总监马修·萨瑟兰(Matthew Sutherland)说，“虽然它们会成为有用的培养皿，去试验开放资本账户等各种操作，但我认为，由于你还是得将经济特区进行隔离，这些特区在操作层面仍然受到很大的限制。”