During the decades they spent holidaying in Morocco, Yves Saint Laurent and Pierre Bergé became captivated by the culture of the native Berber, or Amazigh, tribe, which has inhabited North Africa for 9,000 years. The extensive collection of Berber art and artifacts the couple acquired from the ’60s until Saint Laurent’s death in 2008 is now housed at the Musée Berbère at the duo’s Jardin Majorelle studio villa in Marrakesh. Beginning Friday, the pieces will appear for the first time in the West — alongside a trove of art and objects from private collectors and the Musée du Quai Branly — in the show “Berber Women of Morocco” at Paris’s Fondation Pierre Bergé – Yves Saint Laurent. More than 600 intricately detailed decorative objects, including headpieces, jewelry, carpets, textiles, furniture, pottery and one spectacular set of handcarved kohl eyeliner pots, will share space with drawings by the French artist Titouan Lamazou and archival photographs of Berber women sporting the tribe’s traditional dress. Those familiar with YSL’s oeuvre will no doubt spot the influence on the designer’s work. But what’s especially uncanny is how on-point the women’s look — layers, volume, insouciant accessorizing — feels today.
几十年来，伊夫·圣·洛朗(Yves Saint Laurent)和比埃尔·伯盖(Pierre Bergé)在摩洛哥度假期间，开始深深为当地的柏柏尔人，也就是阿马齐赫部落的文化深深吸引，这支部落在北非已经定居繁衍了9000年。两人从20世纪60年代开始收藏柏柏尔族的艺术品和工艺品，直至圣·洛朗于2008年去世，如今这些艺术品放在波赫贝赫艺术馆，它位于马拉喀什两人的马若雷尔花园工作室别墅中。从周五开始，它们将在名为“摩洛哥的柏柏尔女人”(Berber Women of Morocco)展览上展出，由巴黎的比埃尔·伯盖-伊夫·圣·洛朗基金会主办，这些展品是第一次为西方人所见，此外还有来自其他私人收藏家与来自凯布朗利博物馆的艺术珍品。共有600多件细节精美装饰艺术品，包括头饰、珠宝、地毯、织物、家具、陶器和一组引人瞩目的手工雕刻陶罐，用来装眼影粉；此外还有法国艺术家蒂图安·拉玛祖(Titouan Lamazou)的画作，以及关于柏柏尔女人身穿部落传统服装的资料照片。熟悉圣·洛朗全部作品的人肯定会看出这些艺术品对他的设计产生的影响。但格外神秘的是，当时的女人的外貌——头发的层次、身材、大量佩戴装饰品——如今看来依然入时
Bergé asked the show’s curators to focus on women because of their pivotal contributions to the community: traditionally “feminine” crafts and adornment, and the female job of harvesting argan oil, have ensured Berber economic survival, while their role as educators has preserved the tribe’s ancient language. But women are also at the heart of the exhibition, said Bergé in a statement, simply “because most of the objects concern them.”
伯盖要求策展人把重点放在女人们身上，因为正是她们在社会中起到关键作用：传统“女性”手工艺品和装饰，以及女人在收获阿甘果油中所做的工作支持着柏柏尔族的经济，而她们作为教育者，又延续了部落的古代语言。但伯盖在声明中说，之所以把女人当做展览的核心，只是因为“大多数展品和女人相关”。