SLOVYANSK, Ukraine — The rebel leader spread a topographic map in front of a closed grocery store here as a Ukrainian military helicopter flew past a nearby hill. Ukrainian troops had just seized positions along a river, about a mile and a half away. The commander thought they might advance.
乌克兰斯洛夫扬斯克——反叛武装的领导者在一家关张的杂货店门前，展开了一张地形图，此时一架乌克兰军方的直升机飞过了附近的一座山丘。乌克兰军队刚刚在距离此地1.5英里（约2.4公里）外的河边夺取了几个据点。这位指挥官认为乌军可能会前进。
He issued orders with the authority of a man who had seen many battles. “Go down to the bridge and set up the snipers,” the leader, who gave only a first name, Yuri, said to a former Ukrainian paratrooper, who jogged away.
过去参加过很多次战斗的经历，为他赋予了现在发号施令的权威。这位只愿意透露自己名叫尤里(Yuri)的指挥官，对一名前乌克兰伞兵说，“往下跑到桥那儿，安排好狙击手。”士兵听令后旋即跑开。
Yuri commands the 12th Company, part of the self-proclaimed People’s Militia of the Donetsk People’s Republic, a previously unknown and often masked rebel force that since early April has seized government buildings in eastern Ukraine and, until Saturday, held prisoner a team of European military observers it accused of being NATO spies.
尤里指挥着十二连，这个连队属于自称为顿涅茨克人民共和国人民军(People’s Militia of the Donetsk People’s Republic)的武装组织。这支过去不为人知、时常戴着面具的反叛武装，从4月初开始夺取了乌克兰东部的多个政府大楼，直到周六还一直扣押着一批欧洲的军事观察员。武装人员称这些人是北约(NATO)的间谍。
His is one of the faces behind the shadowy paramilitary takeover. But even with his mask off, much about his aims, motivations and connections remains murky, illustrating why this expanding conflict is still so complex.
在身份可疑的准军事组织接管当地行政机关的行动中，尤里是公开露面的人之一。但即使他摘下了面具，其目的、动机和关系，在很大程度上仍然无法确知，显示出了这场日益扩大的冲突仍然十分复杂。
Yuri, who appears to be in his mid-50s, is in many ways an ordinary eastern Ukrainian of his generation. A military veteran, he survived the Soviet collapse to own a small construction business in Druzhkovka, about 15 miles south of here.
尤里似乎55岁上下，他在很多方面都与乌克兰东部许多普通的同龄人相仿。作为一名老兵，他经历了苏联的解体，现在在斯洛夫扬斯克以南15英里外的德鲁日基夫卡拥有一家小型的建筑公司。
But his rebel stature has a particular root: He is also a former Soviet special forces commander who served in Afghanistan, a background that could make him both authentically local and a capable Kremlin proxy.
然而他反叛的姿态却有着深厚的根源：他也是一名前苏联特种部队指挥官，曾在阿富汗服役，这一背景使他既是货真价实的本地人，又能成为俄罗斯的得力干将。
In this war, clouded by competing claims on both sides, one persistent mystery has been the identity and affiliations of the militiamen, who have pressed the confrontation between Russia and the West into its latest bitter phase.
这场战争中双方的说辞相互冲突，其中一直让人不解的一个谜团是这些武装人员的身份和隶属关系。在他们的推动下，俄罗斯与西方之间的对抗进入了目前这个针锋相对的阶段。
Moscow says they are Ukrainians and not part of the Russian armed forces, as the so-called green men in Crimea turned out to be.
莫斯科方面表示，他们都是乌克兰人，并不属于俄罗斯军队。而出现在克里米亚的绿衣人最后发现属于俄军。
Western officials and the Ukrainian government insist that Russians have led, organized and equipped the fighters.
西方官员和乌克兰政府则坚称，俄罗斯领导、组织和武装了这些作战人员。
A deeper look at the 12th Company — during more than a week of visiting its checkpoints, interviewing its fighters and observing them in action against a Ukrainian military advance here on Friday — shows that in its case neither portrayal captures the full story.
更深入地了解十二连，就会发现上述两种描述都不能全面反映真实的情况。记者在超过一周的时间里，探访了十二连的检查点、采访了作战人员，也在周五观察了他们抵御前进的乌克兰军队的行动。
The rebels of the 12th Company appear to be Ukrainians but, like many in the region, have deep ties to and affinity for Russia. They are veterans of the Soviet, Ukrainian or Russian Armies, and some have families on the other side of the border. Theirs is a tangled mix of identities and loyalties.
十二连的作战人员似乎是乌克兰人。但就像这一地区的很多人一样，他们与俄罗斯有深入的联系，而且关系亲密。他们是苏联、乌克兰或俄罗斯军队的退伍军人，一些人有家人在国境线另一侧的俄罗斯。他们的身份认同和政治效忠错综复杂。
Further complicating the picture, while the fighters share a passionate distrust of Ukraine’s government and the Western powers that support it, they disagree among themselves about their ultimate goals. They argue about whether Ukraine should redistribute power via greater federalization or whether the region should be annexed by Russia, and they harbor different views about which side might claim Kiev, the capital, and even about where the border of a divided Ukraine might lie.
让局面更加复杂的问题是，尽管这些作战人员对乌克兰政府，以及支持乌政府的西方大国疑心重重，但是对于自己的最终目标，他们当中也存在分歧。他们争论应该让乌克兰通过扩大联邦制来分散权力，还是应该让俄罗斯吞并这一地区；对于乌克兰首都基辅该由哪一边占领，他们有不同的看法；甚至乌克兰分裂后，东西之间的边界该如何划定，他们也各有主张。
Yuri speaks with ambivalence about the possibility of Russian annexation, even as Russia’s tri-colored flag fluttered beside the porch where he directed his troops.
谈到被俄罗斯吞并的可能性，尤里含糊其辞，尽管在他指挥战士的那个门廊旁，俄罗斯的三色旗正在猎猎飘扬。
He says he participated in the seizure of Ukraine’s intelligence service building in Donetsk on April 7 and led the capture of this city’s police building five days later, twin operations that helped establish the militia’s foothold. Videos and photographs of the second attack confirm his story.
他说，他参加了4月7日夺取顿涅茨克的乌克兰情报机关大楼的行动，还领导了五天后夺取该市警察局大楼的行动。这两次行动帮助建立了反叛武装的据点，第二次袭击行动的视频和照片印证了他的说法。
Throughout the week, as Ukrainian soldiers sometimes pressed closer, he chuckled at the claims by officials in Kiev and the West that his operations had been guided by Russian military intelligence officers.
在这一周时间里，乌克兰军队时而逼近。谈到基辅和西方国家的官员口中，他的队伍由俄罗斯军方情报部门领导的说法，尤里总会笑出声来。
There is no Russian master, he said. “We have no Muscovites here,” he said. “I have experience enough.”
他说，没有俄罗斯主脑。“我们这里没有莫斯科手下的人，”他说。“我有充足的经验。”
That experience, he and his fighters say, includes four years as a Soviet small-unit commander in Kandahar, Afghanistan, in the 1980s.
尤里和他的部下表示，他的作战经验包括上世纪80年代，在阿富汗坎大哈担任苏联军队的小分队指挥官。
The 119 fighters he said he leads, who appear to range in age from their 20s to their 50s, all speak of prior service in Soviet or Ukrainian infantry, airborne, special forces or air-defense units.
他透露自己手下有119名战士。他们看起来年龄从20多岁一直到50多岁。这些战士全都表示曾在苏联或乌克兰的步兵、空降部队、特种部队或防空部队服役。
Several fighters shook their heads at the idea that they had been paid by Russia, by oligarchs or by anybody else.
若干名作战人员摇着头否认了他们得到了俄罗斯、该国寡头或其他任何人资助的说法。
“This is not a job,” said one fighter, Dmitry. “It is a service.”
“这不是一份工作，”一名叫作德米特里(Dmitry)的战士说。“这是一种奉献。”
Moreover, if Russia’s intelligence services had been helping them, they said, they would have new weapons, not the dated arms visible at their checkpoints and stored in the base where they sleep. During the fighting on Friday, two of the fighters carried hunting shotguns, and the heaviest visible weapon was a sole rocket-propelled grenade.
况且，他们表示，如果俄罗斯情报部门提供了帮助，就会拥有新武器，而不是检查点可以见到的那些，以及他们就寝的基地里放置的那些陈旧武器。在周五的战斗中，有两名作战人员拿着猎枪，战场上可以见到的最重型的武器是绝无仅有的一部榴弹发射器。
Much of their stock was identical to the weapons seen in the hands of Ukrainian soldiers and Interior Ministry special forces troops at government positions outside the city. These included 9-millimeter Makarov pistols, Kalashnikov assault rifles and a few Dragunov sniper rifles, RPK light machine guns and portable antitank rockets, including some with production stamps from the 1980s and early 1990s.
他们的武器中，有许多与处在城外政府军据点的乌克兰士兵和内政部(Interior Ministry)特种部队的武器完全相同。这些武器包括9毫米马卡洛夫(Makarov)手枪、卡拉什尼科夫(Kalashnikov)突击步枪、若干只德拉贡诺夫(Dragunov)狙击步枪、RPK轻机枪、便携式反坦克导弹，其中一些武器上有上世纪80年代和90年代初的生产日期标识。
Many of the weapons show signs of long service. One, an RPG-7 launcher, looked clean and fresh. The fighters said it had been purchased from Ukrainian soldiers for $2,000, along with 12 high-explosive projectiles.
许多武器上有使用已久的迹象。其中一部RPG-7榴弹发射器看起来干净崭新，这些作战人员表示，他们花了2000美元的价格，从乌克兰士兵手中购得了这部发射器，以及12枚高爆榴弹。
Militia members said their weapons had either been taken from seized police buildings and a column of captured Ukrainian armored vehicles, or bought from corrupt Ukrainian soldiers.
武装人员表示，他们的武器来源有被攻占的警察局大楼、被俘获的一队乌克兰装甲车，还有一些武器来自腐败的乌克兰士兵。
There was no clear Russian link in the 12th Company’s arsenal, but it was not possible to confirm the rebels’ descriptions of the sources of their money and equipment.
十二连的武器与俄罗斯没有明确的联系，不过反叛武装对其资金和装备来源的描述无法核实。
The militia claims to have mostly good relations with the local police, who have done little to stop them. Many police officers still patrol in rebel territory, accepting the militia’s authority while directing traffic or investigating accidents.
武装人员称，他们与当地警方的关系大体良好，警察并没有采取什么措施阻止他们。许多警察仍然在反叛武装控制的区域进行巡逻，接受武装人员的权威，同时指挥交通或调查事故。
Where these militiamen and their backers are trying to steer Ukraine remains a matter of dispute even among the men wearing masks.
这些武装人员和他们的支持者试图把乌克兰带向何方，即使在这些戴面具者内部，都还是一个充满争议的问题。