On CNN, the plane rises from misty clouds accompanied by an eerie background score while anchors offer intriguing details — some new, some days old — of the disappearance of Flight 370. The reports, broadcast continually, often are augmented by speculation — sometimes fevered, sometimes tempered — about where the flight might have come to rest. And viewers are eating it up.
在CNN的节目中，飞机从迷蒙的云中升起，伴以诡谲的背景音乐，与此同时主持人介绍着370航班失踪的情节。在这些引人入胜的细节中，一些是新的，一些已经有数日之久。报道在不停地播出，并且常常伴随着各种解读，揣测着飞机可能落到了哪里，时而热切激烈，时而言辞平和。观众们则目不转睛地关注着这一切。
The story of the vanished Boeing 777 jet has been exhaustively covered across every form of news media, with television generally leading the way. Each of the broadcast networks began its evening newscast with stories on the plane every night last week, a consensus that happens “once a year at most,” according to Andrew Tyndall, who publishes a weekly report monitoring newscasts.
消失的波音777客机的故事在各种形式的新闻媒体上受到了全方位的报道，但总体而言，电视媒体表现得一马当先。上周，各个电视网的晚间新闻节目中，头条消息都是失踪的飞机的报道。安德鲁·廷德尔(Andrew Tyndall)说，这种一致性“一年最多发生一次”。廷德尔是一份关注电视新闻节目的报告的出版人，这份报告每周一期。
But it is CNN, the cable network that has been scrambling to find a sustainable business model against its main competitors, Fox News and MSNBC, that has perhaps invested most heavily in the mystery of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
不过在马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines) 370航班失踪的谜团中投入最多资源的可能是CNN。这家有线电视网一直在艰难地寻找具备可持续性的商业模式，以应对其主要的竞争对手Fox新闻频道(Fox News)和MSNBC。
“It is a tremendous story that is completely in our wheelhouse,” said a senior CNN executive, who asked not to be identified defining the network’s strategy for its coverage. CNN’s ratings soared last week and over the weekend, rising by almost 100 percent in prime time. The network even managed the rare feat of edging past Fox News for leadership in several hours.
CNN的一位高管说，“这是一则十分重要的新闻，报道这类新闻我们也十分在行。”由于在阐述该电视台的报道策略，这位高管要求匿名。上周一到周末，CNN的收视率大幅提升，黄金时间升幅甚至达到100%。有数个小时，这家电视台甚至难能可贵地做到了略超Fox新闻，收视率达到最高。
Last Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the CNN 8 p.m. program, hosted by Anderson Cooper, beat Fox’s perennial ratings giant, Bill O’Reilly, in the audience that attracts the most revenue for news channels, viewers between the ages of 25 and 54. It was the first time Mr. Cooper has ever topped Mr. O’Reilly in the group for three straight days. (Mr. O’Reilly still won the week in that category.)
上周三、四、五，CNN晚8点档由安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)主持的节目在25岁至54岁年龄段的观众中的收视率，超过了Fox常年占据榜首的收视率巨人比尔·奥莱利(Bill O’Reilly)，这个观众群为新闻频道吸引的收入最多。这是库珀节目的收视率，第一次在这一群体中连续三天超越奥莱利。（在该观众群中，奥莱利过去一周的总收视率仍然胜出。）
CNN also won the 25-to-54 age group from 2 p.m. through 10 p.m. on Saturday, and initial numbers from Sunday indicate the network again led across many of the hours of the day. This is only the case among the specific demographic group preferred by news advertisers; Fox News, as it always does, dominated in terms of total viewers.
在25岁至54岁的观众群中，CNN周六下午2点至晚10点的收视率也夺得了第一。周日最初的收视率数据显示，CNN在当日再次一连数小时收视率领先。不过这只是新闻广告商最青睐的具体观众群当中的情形，论及全体观众中的收视率，Fox新闻仍然一如既往地位居首位。
“It’s an incredible mystery full of human drama, with an international element,” the senior CNN executive said. “Anything international plays into our hands because we have more reporters to deploy all over the world.”
“这是一个令人难以置信的神秘故事，充满了人类境遇的戏剧性，而且具有国际因素，”前述CNN高管说。“任何具有国际因素的新闻，我们都得心应手，因为我们有更多可以在全世界部署的记者。”
But the executive acknowledged this was not really a story where reporters have been able to advance the known facts much. Instead, it has been fueled by a lot of expert analysis based on the little verifiable information that has been available, speculation about what might have happened to the plane and where it might be now, accompanied by all the visual pizazz the network can bring to bear.
但这位高管也承认，对于这则新闻，并不是靠记者就能够大幅揭示出事实。而是要以能够证实的极少信息为基础，做出专业的分析，对飞机可能发生了什么、现在可能在哪里做出揣测，并以这家电视网能够实现的所有视觉效果进行呈现。
That has been highlighted by extensive reliance on the reporter Martin Savidge sitting in a flight simulator in Ontario, Canada, as well as the reporter Tom Foreman walking across an animated map of the region displayed on the floor of what CNN calls its “visual room.” At one point the anchor Don Lemon used a toy model of the plane to illustrate a point being made by one of CNN’s aviation experts. During anotherinterview, Mr. Lemon raised the question of whether somethingotherworldly happened to the plane.
对于以下做法的严重依赖就清晰表明了这一点：CNN让记者马丁·萨维奇(Martin Savidge)坐在加拿大安大略省的飞行模拟器里，并让记者汤姆·福尔曼(Tom Foreman)在一幅该地区的动态地图前走来走去。这幅地图显示在CNN所谓的“视觉室”(visual room)的地面上。主持人唐·莱蒙(Don Lemon)一度曾使用一架飞机玩具模型说明CNN的一位飞行专家提出的观点。在另一则采访中，莱蒙还问到，飞机是不是发生了超自然的事件。
“Especially today, on a day when we deal with the supernatural, we go to church, the supernatural power of God,” Mr. Lemon said. “People are saying to me, why aren’t you talking about the possibility — and I’m just putting it out there — that something odd happened to this plane, something beyond our understanding?”
“尤其是今天，这个去教堂面对上帝超自然的力量的日子，我们要面对超自然，”莱蒙说。“有人对我说，你为什么没有谈过这种可能性：飞机发生了某种奇怪的事，某种我们无法理解的事？我只是提一下这个问题。”
As has happened in some previous stories, like the bombing at the Boston Marathon and the trial of George Zimmerman, CNN has attracted a chorus of critics along with hordes more viewers than usual.
就像在过去的一些新闻事件中发生的那样，如波士顿马拉松爆炸案、乔治·齐默尔曼(George Zimmerman)出庭受审，CNN现在受到了此起彼伏的批评，但也吸引了比往常更多的观众。
Commenters on social media over the last several days cited the toy plane as an especially egregious example of vamping instead of adding anything substantive to the coverage, along with a reliance on some commentators known more for chasing conspiracy theories than analyzing air disasters. The comedian Bill Maher, referring to the CNN founder, posted on Twitter: “Ted Turner wishes he was dead so he cld roll over in his grave.”
过去几天里，社交网络上的评论者指出，说起吸引眼球但不能为报道增添任何实质信息的做法，玩具飞机是一个绝好的例子。依赖某些更长于讲述阴谋论，而不是分析空难的评论嘉宾，同样也是很糟糕的做法。笑星比尔·马赫(Bill Maher)在Twitter上调侃CNN的创始人说：“泰德·特纳(Ted Turner)很希望自己已经死了，那样他就能死不瞑目了。”
Tom Rosenstiel, the executive director of the American Press Institute, a research center devoted to analyzing media, said, “Even a great story and a great mystery can become exploited. There were periods where the coverage entered into fantastical territory.” Mr. Rosentstiel said he was not speaking only of CNN, but the cable news coverage in general, which he described as “an architecture for the news that is, at times, hard to fill.”
美国新闻业研究所(American Press Institute)执行总监汤姆·罗森斯蒂尔(Tom Rosenstiel)说，“即使是很棒的新闻和很棒的神秘情节，也可能会报道过度。有一段时间，报道内容都进入了幻想的领域。”这家研究机构专注于分析媒体。罗森斯蒂尔说，他并不只是在说CNN，而是在总体地评论有线电视新闻报道。他形容，“这种播放新闻的架构，有时候很难填满。”
Judy Muller, the former ABC correspondent who is now a professor of journalism at the University of Southern California, said: “I fear I am part of the problem. I keep tuning in to see if there are any new clues.” She added, “Of course, endless speculation from talking heads soon defines the coverage and that can lead to the impression that these folks know something when what they really know is that they have a 20-minute segment to fill.”
朱迪·穆勒(Judy Muller)，曾担任过ABC电视台记者，现在是南加州大学(University of Southern California)的新闻学教授。她说，“恐怕我就是问题的一部分。我不断地打开电视去看有没有新的线索。”她还补充道，“当然了，电视上各路人马源源不断的揣测，会让你觉得他们真的知道点什么，可事实上他们只想把这20分钟的节目板块填满。”
CNN executives note that critics of the coverage tend to be professional media watchers and that the average viewer may see only a few minutes of the coverage a day. Several CNN executives noted that conversations around water coolers and at dinner parties all over the country had been dominated by the story of Flight 370 and possible explanations for its disappearance.
CNN的高管们指出，针对报道的批评大多来自专业的媒体研究者，普通观众一天可能只会看几分钟的报道。一些CNN的高管们同时注意到，近期全国各地人们茶余饭后的谈资全部围绕着370航班，讨论其消失的可能原因。
The likelihood is that CNN will feature the story aggressively until the mystery has loosened its grip on the public. In the past, the network has seen these ratings surges subside as interest in the events faded, with no residual impact on CNN’s regular ratings.
CNN很有可能会继续积极地报道这一事件，直到公众对它逐渐失去兴趣。在过去，收视率都会随着公众对事件兴趣的减退而回落，对平时的收视率没有影响。
Executives at both Fox News and MSNBC pointed out that CNN had fallen back every time, and over all its ratings position remains consistently third in prime time, well behind MSNBC and far behind Fox News.
Fox新闻频道和MSNBC的高管同时指出，CNN的收视率每次都会回落，其总体收视率排名稳定在第三，远远落后于Fox新闻频道的同时，和MSNBC也相差很远。
Mr. Rosenstiel said the overall CNN strategy of feeding the hunger of viewers for every detail of a hot story was unquestionably sound practice. “If I were running CNN I would say the audience is never wrong,” he said, adding: “You could make a pretty good adventure movie out of this event — and I’m sure someone will.”
罗森斯蒂尔说，CNN通过对热点新闻提供细致入微的报道来满足好奇的观众，这种整体策略毫无疑问是很合理的做法。“如果是我在经营CNN，我也会说观众永远都是对的，”他说。“这个事件可以改编成一部精彩的冒险片，而且我确信之后会有人这么做。”