Paul Manafort, a Republican political operative since the 1970s, was supposed to impose order on Donald Trump’s chaotic presidential campaign.
共和党政治运作人士保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)从上世纪70年代就开始投身政界，他本应给唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)混乱的总统竞选活动带来秩序。
On Friday, the chaos devoured him.
但上周五，混乱却将他吞没了。
Weeks of sliding poll numbers and false starts had sapped Manafort’s credibility inside the campaign. A cooling relationship with Trump turned hot last weekend when the candidate erupted, blaming Manafort for a damaging newspaper article detailing the campaign’s internal travails, according to three people briefed on the episode.
连续数周的民调数字下滑与失败的迹象，削弱了马纳福特在竞选团队中的信誉。据三名知情人士透露，他与特朗普日渐冷却的关系在上周末激化，后者突然爆发，因报纸上刊登了一篇不利于他的文章而指责马纳福特。这篇文章详细披露了其竞选团队的一些内部事务。
Then a wave of reports about Manafort’s business dealings with Russia-aligned leaders in Ukraine, involving allegations of millions of dollars in cash payments and secret lobbying efforts in the United States, threw a spotlight on a glaring vulnerability for Trump: his admiration for President Vladimir Putin of Russia.
之后出现了一波报道，指称马纳福特与亲俄罗斯的乌克兰领导人有着生意往来，称他收取了数百万美元的现金，还曾在美国进行隐秘的游说活动。这些报道将特朗普一个显眼的弱点置于聚光灯下：他对俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的赞赏。
“This morning Paul Manafort offered, and I accepted, his resignation from the campaign,” Trump said in a statement Friday. “I am very appreciative for his great work in helping to get us where we are today.”
“今天上午，我接受了保罗·马纳福特递交的辞呈，他将就此退出竞选团队，”特朗普在上周五发布的声明中表示。“我很感激他之前付出巨大的努力，帮助我们走到了今天。”
In fact,Manafort did not go voluntarily. “My father just didn’t want to have the distraction looming over the campaign,” Eric Trump, the candidate’s second son, explained in a Fox News interview.
实际上，马纳福特并非自愿退出。“我父亲只是不想再让这些无关的东西困扰竞选团队，”特朗普的次子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)在接受福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)采访时解释道。
In a twist, Manafort’s ouster came after a week in which Trump had taken several steps toward the kind of normalized candidacy Manafort had been striving for: The Republican nominee gave three speeches in which he generally stuck to a script; he mostly attacked Hillary Clinton, his Democratic opponent, while refraining from berating other Republicans; and, on Friday, he began running his first television advertisements.
巧合的是，在马纳福特遭罢免之前的一周，特朗普采取了好几项措施，竭力向一名规范化候选人的身份迈进，这是马纳福特一直努力想实现的：这名共和党总统提名人发表了三次大体照演讲稿进行的讲话；他将火力主要集中于自己的民主党竞争对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，避免严厉指责其他共和党人；在上周五，他还首次推出了电视广告。
Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law, had grown increasingly concerned after a New York Times article published Sunday about allegations of cash payments made to Manafort’s firm for his work on behalf of his main client, Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former Ukranian president, who is an ally of Putin.
在《纽约时报》周日刊登了一篇文章之后，特朗普的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)感到愈发担忧。这篇文章指控马纳福特的公司为其重要客户——普京的盟友、乌克兰前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)谋利益，并因此得到了酬劳。
Clinton’s campaign has repeatedly sought to yoke Trump to Putin, citing Trump’s praise for the Russian leader. And the avalanche of stories about Manafort’s work for pro-Russian entities in Ukraine were becoming untenable for the campaign, according to people briefed on the discussions.
克林顿的竞选团队一直试图将特朗普和普京联系起来，曾援引特朗普称赞这位俄罗斯领导人的话。据知情人士透露，有关马纳福特为乌克兰的亲俄罗斯实体工作的连篇报道，让该竞选团队越来越被动。
“The easiest way for Trump to sidestep the whole Ukraine story is for Manafort not to be there,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker who has become a counselor to Trump.
“对特朗普来说，避开整个乌克兰报道最简单的办法就是让马纳福特出局，”之前曾担任众议院议长、如今成为特朗普顾问的纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)说。