There is a Stephen A. Schwarzman public library building in New York City, a Stephen A. Schwarzman cultural center on the drawing boards at Yale, and now a Stephen A. Schwarzman College, a brick building with a pagoda-inspired roof on the Tsinghua University campus in Beijing that, starting in August, will house the first class of Schwarzman scholars.
纽约市有一座苏世民公共图书馆，耶鲁大学(Yale)有一座筹建中的苏世民文化中心，现在，在北京的清华大学校园里又有一座苏世民书院；今年8月，这座屋顶有佛塔风格的砖砌建筑将迎来第一批苏世民学者。
On Monday, the program will announce the first 111 scholarship winners. Mr. Schwarzman, chairman and co-founder of the Blackstone Group, the private equity and investment giant, started the program with a goal of identifying, as he put it, “your best guess as future leaders of the world.”
周一，这个项目公布了第一批111名苏世民学者名单。苏世民(Stephen A. Schwarzman)是私募股权投资巨头黑石集团(Blackstone Group)董事长暨联合创始人，他说自己创建这个项目是为了找出“你认为最可能成为未来世界领导者的人”。
Some of the recipients, selected from a pool of 3,000 applicants, already seem well on their way.
这批苏世民学者是从3000名申请者中遴选出来的，其中一些似乎已经是平步青云的人物。
Lt. Daniel Glenn, 28, is a graduate of the United States Naval Academy. He did his scholarship interview via Skype from a secret location in Iraq, where he is the officer in charge of a Navy special operations platoon that defuses bombs and underwater explosives. Lieutenant Glenn has also founded two philanthropic organizations, and he broke a Guinness World Record for running a mile in an 80-pound bomb suit (8 minutes and 30 seconds). He told his interviewers that he intended to eventually run for the Senate.
28岁的丹尼尔·格伦(Daniel Glenn)中尉毕业于美国海军学院(United States Naval Academy)，在伊拉克一个秘密地点通过Skype接受了奖学金面试，他在那里领导一个海军特种作战排开展炸弹和水下爆炸装置的拆除工作。格伦中尉还创办了两个慈善组织，打破了80磅拆弹装束负重跑一英里的吉尼斯世界纪录（8分30秒）。他告诉面试官，他以后打算竞选参议员。
Other winners include Rugsit Kanan, 22, a Harvard student from Thailand who writes poetry in English, Thai and Mandarin and plays on the Thai national chess team; Wang Zhe, 26, an economics major from Tsinghua University who was secretary of the Communist Youth League at the school of architecture and taught math and science in Kenya; and Jacob Gaba, 22, a computer science major at Dartmouth College who made a video of himself called “Guy Dances Across China in 100 Days” that went viral.
其他苏世民学者获得者包括22岁鲁斯特·卡南(Rugsit Kanan)，来自泰国的哈佛学生，会用英语、泰语和汉语写诗，而且是泰国国家象棋队成员；26岁的王喆（音）曾在清华大学修经济学，任该校建筑学院团委书记，曾在肯尼亚教过数学和科学课程；22岁的雅各布·嘎巴(Jacob Gaba)是达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth College)计算机科学专业学生，他做的《外国小哥100天舞遍中国》(Guy Dances Across China in 100 Days)视频在网上疯转。
At his Manhattan office on Thursday, Mr. Schwarzman said that he had modeled his fully funded master’s program on the Rhodes scholarship, but that his was “global with a bit of a U.S. twist.”
上周四，苏世民在曼哈顿的办公室说，他这个全额资助的硕士课程是按照罗德奖学金(Rhodes scholarship)的模式设计的，但却是“全球性的，带有一点儿美国特色”。
His goal is to establish a $450 million endowment that would fund up to 200 students every year: 45 percent from the United States, 20 percent from China and 35 percent from other countries. Mr. Schwarzman, who according to Forbes is worth $9.6 billion, has personally contributed $100 million and has raised another $275 million from foundations and corporations including BP, Dow Chemical and Credit Suisse.
他的目标是筹集4.5亿美元捐款，每年可以资助多达200名学生：45%来自美国，20%来自中国，35%来自其他国家。《福布斯》(Forbes)称苏世民的身家为96亿美元。他个人捐资1亿美元，并且已经从英国石油公司(BP)、陶氏化学(Dow Chemical)和瑞士信贷(Credit Suisse)等公司和基金会另外筹集了2.75亿美元。
As Mr. Schwarzman spoke, the Chinese stock market was closed after a free fall, and he waved away an assistant bearing phone messages, telling her, “That can wait.”
就在苏世民讲话的时候，中国股市在暴跌后停市，一名助理向他出示相关的手机短信，他挥手让她离开，说：“这个不急。”
Interviews with 300 semifinalists for the scholarship were conducted in Beijing, Bangkok, London and New York, and Mr. Schwarzman said he had been involved in the interview process in London and New York. David Petraeus, the former director of the C.I.A., and Jared Cohen, the director of Google Ideas, were among the judges.
入围的300名奖学金申请者在北京、曼谷、伦敦和纽约参加了面试，苏世民说自己参与了在伦敦和纽约举行的面试。面试官包括美国中央情报局前局长大卫·彼得雷乌斯(David Petraeus)和谷歌智库(Google Ideas)主管杰瑞德·科恩(Jared Cohen)。
Mr. Schwarzman described his role as a sort of warm-up act, greeting applicants in groups and assuring them that the interview would not be a test, but “more like an interview with Charlie Rose.” The applicants were, however, asked to play with Legos — as part of a team competition to construct a model building better and faster than other applicants.
苏世民称自己在面试中发挥的是“热身”作用，对申请者集体表示欢迎，向他们保证面试不是考试，而“更像是接受查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)的采访”。但他们还是要求申请者玩乐高积木——这是团队竞赛的的项目之一，要求申请者比其他人更好更快地制作出模型。
Other, similar master’s scholarship programs have a presence in China, notably Rhodes, which recently awarded its first round of scholarships to Oxford to students from China.
中国也有其他类似的研究生奖学金项目，特别是罗德奖学金。前不久，该项目刚把第一批面向牛津大学的奖学金授予中国学生。
He said that Jack Ma, founder and chairman of Alibaba Group, had agreed to give internships to some Schwarzman scholars, and that Niall Ferguson, the historian, and Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, would serve as visiting professors.
他说，阿里巴巴集团创始人、董事局主席马云已同意给部分苏世民学者提供实习机会，历史学家尼尔·弗格森(Niall Ferguson)和前财政部长劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)将担任访问教授。