Following one of the most turbulent weeks for China’s stock markets, some of the country’s brightest young business majors assembled for their graduation from prestigious Tsinghua University in Beijing on Sunday.
在中国股市经历了剧烈动荡的几周后，一批清华大学的年轻商学英才周日在北京参加了他们的毕业典礼。
At the ceremony, where the university’s president, Qiu Yong, exhorted more than 3,000 students from all departments to “dream big and take responsibility,” the 256 students from the School of Economics and Management shouted, “Tsinghua S.E.M., benefit the people!”
在典礼上，清华大学校长邱勇告诫所有院系的3000多名学生，要“追逐远大梦想，肩负时代使命”。经济管理学院的256名学生高呼：“清华经管，经世济民！”
But organizers of Sunday’s ceremony had originally put forward a far more topical slogan.
不过，负责周日毕业典礼组织工作的人员最初提出的口号与当下时事的贴近程度要密切得多。
According to students interviewed at the ceremony, the School of Economics and Management sent out an email last week proposing that students say: “Revive A shares! Benefit the people!”
在典礼上接受采访的多名学生透露，经管学院在上周发送了一封邮件，提议学生们喊“振兴A股，经世济民！”的口号。
“I received the email about a week ago from the school, but at the time, the slogan wasn’t finalized or anything, so it was quickly scrapped for other ideas,” said Mr. Han, an economics and management graduate who asked to be identified only by his surname.
一名要求仅公布他姓韩（音）的学院毕业生表示，“大约在一个星期前，我收到了学院的邮件。不过那时候，口号还没有最终敲定什么的，所以很快就被其他点子给取代了。”
By tradition at Tsinghua, each department comes up with a graduation slogan, incorporating suggestions from student representatives.
依据清华大学的传统，每个院系都要提出一条毕业口号，并会结合学生代表提出的建议。
After The Financial Times reported last week on the economics school’s planned slogan referring to A shares, or stocks traded in China, many online comments in Chinese expressed disbelief or criticized the Tsinghua students. “This is brain-damaged,” said one comment.
上周，《金融时报》(The Financial Times)对清华经管学院设计的有关A股的口号进行了报道。这之后，网上的很多中文评论对此表示难以置信，或对清华学生进行了批评。 “这是脑残了吧，” 其中一条评论这样写道。
Mr. Han said, “In my opinion, that slogan didn’t mean anything. My friends and I all knew it was a joke.”
韩同学表示，“依我看，这个口号并不意味着什么。我和朋友都知道只是开玩笑的。”
Another economics and management graduate, who asked not to be named, agreed that the “A shares” slogan was an attempt at humor. The day before the graduation ceremony, he said, he had heard via WeChat text messages that the school’s slogan was actually going to be: “Actions speak louder than words! Shoulder responsibility, be innovative, benefit the people!”
对于“A股”的口号不过是幽默一下的说法，另一名要求不具名的经管学院毕业生表示赞同。根据他的说法，在毕业典礼的前一天，他从微信消息得知，学院的口号实际上将会是“行胜于言，责任在肩，实业创新，经世济民！”
On graduation day itself, however, students were told their slogan would be the simpler “Tsinghua S.E.M., benefit the people!”
不过在毕业当天，学生们被告知他们的口号将会是更简洁的版本，即“清华经管，经世济民！”
“We’re not sure who wrote the slogan,” a graduate surnamed Fan said of the final version. “The instructors told us during this morning’s rehearsal, for purposes of consistency.”
在提及口号的最终版本时，一名姓范（音）的学生表示，“我们不清楚是谁起草的口号。今天早上彩排的时候，辅导员告诉了我们这个，说是为了保持一致。” 
On Sunday, as a camera panned over the assembled students, graduates from more than 15 departments took turns shouting out the aspirations of their academic specialty.
周日，当摄像机摇向集合的学生时，来自逾15个院系的毕业生轮番喊出了各自学术专业的志向。
For the School of Information Science and Technology, it was “Compute lives! Compute the world! Compute the future!”
信息科学技术学院的口号是“计算人生，计算世界，计算未来！”
The department of mechanical engineering used “Mechanics, mechanics, full of passion, fight on!”
机械工程系用的是“机情不灭，斗志不懈，机械机械，战胜一切!”
And the School of Aerospace Engineering chose “Dream big! Don’t hesitate! Look at us! Fly in space!”
航天航空学院则选择了“放任梦想，一往无前；看我航院，叱咤云天！”