Sebastian Herkner uses lots of different materials in the furnishings he makes for companies like ClassiCon, Moroso and Rosenthal. But glass has always held a special appeal for him.
塞巴斯蒂安•赫克纳(Sebastian Herkner)运用各种不同的材料为ClassiCon, Moroso和Rosentha等家具公司设计产品。但是，他总是对玻璃情有独钟。
Because of its chameleon-like properties, Mr. Herkner said, “it’s a material that’s fascinated me for a long time.” Not only can it assume various forms depending on the manufacturing process, but “the color of glass also changes throughout the day, with sunlight,” he said. “And you always get different reflections.”
由于玻璃具有变色的特性，赫克纳说，“长久以来，我都为这种材料而着迷。”不仅仅是因为依据不同的制造过程，可以将它做成各式各样的造型，还因为“随着太阳光线的不同，玻璃在一天中可以展现出不同的颜色，”他说，“你就总能获得不同的效果。”
Mr. Herkner, a 33-year-old German industrial designer, is best known for his Bell table, which defies expectations with a hefty metal-and-crystal-glass top balanced on a delicate-looking base of handblown glass. “Side tables, in general, have a metal structure and a glass-plate top,” he said, showing off one of his creations at Avenue Road in Manhattan. “I wanted to turn that upside down.” (Despite appearances, he assured a reporter, the base is sturdy enough that it won’t shatter if you hit it with a vacuum cleaner.)
现年33岁的德国工业设计师赫克纳，因他设计的钟桌(Bell table)而广为人知。这一设计和人们的想象不同，将一块大而重的金属-水晶玻璃，置于一个看上去非常精巧的人工吹制的玻璃之上。“总的说来，边几大多由金属结构和玻璃桌面组成，”他一边说，一边展示着一个他在曼哈顿林荫大道(Avenue Road)上创作的作品。“我想要把它倒过来。”（尽管外观如此，他向记者保证边几的基座足够结实，就算你用一个真空吸尘器去敲它，也不会破碎。）
In search of other inventive ways to use glass, Mr. Herkner stopped in at Suite New York, in Gramercy, where he examined the Bridge desk from Glas Italia. Made entirely out of layers of laminated glass, it was “surprisingly stable,” he said. “It’s so thin, and yet there’s no support underneath. You wouldn’t expect it to be so strong.”
在寻找其他创造性地使用玻璃的案例时，赫克纳在格拉梅西(Gramercy)的纽约套房(Suite New York)前停了下来，他仔细研究了来自Glas Italia的桥桌(Bridge desk)。整个桌子完全是由叠层安全玻璃制成，它“出人意料地稳固”，赫克纳说。“它是那么薄，下面也没有支持物。你不敢指望它有多牢固。”
Still, he wasn’t confident enough to put it to the test: When a saleswoman invited him to sit on top, he politely declined.
但是，他还是对这个实验没有足够的信心：当店里的销售人员邀请他坐在椅子上面时，他礼貌地拒绝了。
He also liked the Bissa table lamp, a column of glass that droops at the top, designed by Luciano Vistosi in the 1960s. “So simple but beautiful,” he said. “It’s just folded glass.”
赫克纳还喜欢Bissa台灯，这款台灯是由卢西亚诺•维斯托斯(Luciano Vistosi)在20世纪60年代设计的，灯的顶部有一个玻璃柱垂下来。“简洁而美丽，”他说：“就是皱褶珠。”
Mr. Herkner found a much larger light fixture at Cappellini, in SoHo: the Meltdown suspension lamp by Johan Lindsten.
在位于SoHo的卡佩里尼（Cappellini，来自意大利的顶级家具制造商），赫克纳找到一个更大的照明灯具：由乔安·林斯顿(Johan Lindsten)设计的Meltdown吊灯。
“I like that it’s made from bubbles that look like they’re melting,” he said, pointing out that the light bulbs inside the globes appeared to be falling through the glass.
 “我喜欢这款灯用泡泡做成，看上去它们像要融化了一般，”他说，灯罩里的灯泡好像要从玻璃里掉出来一样。
At Paul Smith, Mr. Herkner admired the Alice cheese board and dome by Bethan Gray, a round black-and-white marble base covered by a glass bell jar. A simple piece, it was “like a stage for a special object you want to present,” he said.
在保罗•史密斯(Paul Smith)家具店，赫克纳对贝珊·格雷(Bethan Gray)设计的一款名为爱丽丝(Alice)的奶酪板和圆顶表示钦佩。这一设计有一个圆形的黑白大理石基座，上面是一个玻璃钟形罩。很简单的设计，它就“像一个你想要展示特殊对象的舞台，” 赫克纳说。