BEIRUT — Both sides in Syria’s civil war see the deal to dismantle President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons stockpiles as a major turning point. It left rebels deflated and government supporters jubilant. And both sides say it means the United States knows Mr. Assad is not going anywhere anytime soon.
贝鲁特——叙利亚内战双方都把关于清除巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统的化学武器库存的协议视为一个主要的转折点。叛乱分子为此垂头丧气，而政府支持者则欢天喜地。但双方均认为，这意味着美国明白阿萨德近期不会下台。
The agreement between the United States and Russia, Mr. Assad’s most powerful backer, ended weeks of tension over the possibility of an imminent American military strike. Plans for such a strike have been put aside while the diplomatic process surrounding the agreement plays out, engaging Mr. Assad’s government and infusing it with new confidence that could have immediate impact.
美国与俄罗斯（阿萨德最强劲的支持者）之间达成的协议一扫美国原本可能马上进行的军事打击在过去几周所造成的紧张空气。现在，打击计划已被搁置一边，而围绕协议的外交进程正在展开。与阿萨德政府进行的接触为其注入新的信心，也可能产生立竿见影的效果。
Rebels who had hoped to capitalize on a military strike to regain momentum in the fighting are now bracing for the opposite, expecting Mr. Assad to press the battle more aggressively with conventional weapons, which they bitterly note have killed scores of times as many civilians as chemical weapons have.
曾经打算利用军事打击以重获作战优势的造反派现在则打起精神转而应付另外一个可能性，即阿萨德利用常规武器展开更猛烈的战斗。造反派愤愤不平地指出，常规武器造成的伤亡人数是化学武器的数十倍。
Rebels and analysts critical of Mr. Assad’s government say he has a well-established pattern of agreeing to diplomatic initiatives to buy time, only to go on escalating the fighting on the ground. For example, when Mr. Assad accepted Arab League monitors in the country in late 2011 and early 2012, he also intensified his crackdown on opponents, and shortly afterward he began the large-scale bombardments of rebel-held areas, like the Baba Amr neighborhood of Homs, that have since become daily occurrences.
对阿萨德政府持批评态度的反对派和分析人士认为，通过接受外交提议以争取时间，并随后提高作战强度，是阿萨德的惯用伎俩。比如，2011年末至2012年初，阿萨德接受了阿拉伯联盟(Arab League)在叙进行监督，但与此同时加大了对反对派的打击力度，不久之后又对反对派控制的区域，如霍姆斯市的巴巴阿姆尔城区进行了大规模的轰炸与炮击。此类打击活动后来成了每日的常例。
Kamel Wazne, a Lebanese analyst who has close contacts with senior members of Hezbollah, the Lebanese militia that has sent fighters to aid Mr. Assad’s forces, said Sunday that the deal allowed the side of the Syrian government to exhale. “Whether the Americans like it or not,” he said, “when you negotiate the deal with the Russians as representatives of Bashar al-Assad, you acknowledged his existence and his continuation in power.”
黎巴嫩民兵组织真主党(Hezbollah)派出了作战人员协助阿萨德的部队。与其高级成员有密切接触的一位黎巴嫩分析家卡迈尔·瓦兹尼(Kamel Wazne)周日表示，协议让叙利亚政府得以喘息。“不管美国人爱不爱听，”他说，“当你与代表巴沙尔·阿萨德的俄罗斯进行谈判时，你已经承认了巴沙尔的存在，以及他将继续执政的事实。”
Though American officials keep saying that their threat of military force remains, Mr. Wazne added, the Syrian government was now reassured that there would be no strikes anytime soon, and that “at least for today, life is normal in Damascus.”
尽管美国官员不断强调仍有动武的可能性，瓦兹勒补充道，叙利亚政府已得到保证，近期不会对其进行打击，“至少今天在大马士革，生活一切正常。”
In Washington, President Obama portrayed the agreement with Russia as a victory on an issue more important to American interests than the outcome of the war in Syria: curbing the use and proliferation of chemical weapons around the world. He suggested that the process of carrying out the deal could lay the groundwork for an eventual political settlement between backers and opponents of Mr. Assad.
奥巴马总统在华盛顿则把与俄罗斯达成的协议描述成一个胜利：相比让叙利亚之争最终决出高下，能够在世界范围抑制对化学武器的使用和扩散，这对美国的利益更加重要。他表示，对该协议的执行会为最终在阿萨德的支持者和反对者之间寻求政治解决方案打下基础。
The widespread perception in the region, though, was that every player had gained something in the past few weeks except the rebels — and, in large part, Syrian civilians, who human rights groups say have been systematically attacked by the government, and who have suffered abuses from both sides.
然而该地区的广泛看法却是，其他各方在过去几周均有斩获，反对派和叙利亚民众则是例外。人权组织认定，该国政府有计划地对该国民众展开攻击，而且交战双方都有针对平民的暴行。
Mr. Wazne listed the winners: Mr. Obama avoided a potentially embarrassing defeat in Congress over the use of force in Syria; the Russian and Syrian governments bought time for Mr. Assad; Israel can look forward to the removal of a chemical arsenal on its border; and Iran, which had threatened to retaliate for a military strike on its ally Syria, avoided escalating confrontation with the West.
瓦兹勒列出各个赢家：奥巴马避免了就对叙使用武力，在国会颜面扫地的可能；俄罗斯和叙利亚政府为阿萨德赢得了时间；以色列有望看到部署在其边境线上的化学武器被清除，而威胁将对任何针对其盟友叙利亚的军事打击进行报复的伊朗，避免了加剧与西方的对立。
Opponents of Mr. Assad expressed worry that the effort to eliminate the chemical weapons might stall or be evaded, and that even if the weapons are successfully eliminated, Mr. Assad would gain strength from the deal if it is not accompanied by significantly increased military aid to the rebels.
反对派表示，自己担心阿萨德政权可能拖延或逃避对化学武器的清除。而且即使武器被成功清除，若反对派无法得到更多的军事援助，阿萨德的实力将随着协议进行而得到显著增强。
Samir Nashar, a member of the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, the main opposition group in exile, said that the subtext of the agreement appeared to be that Mr. Assad would remain in power until at least through mid-2014, when the deal calls for the clearing of his chemical weapons stockpiles to be complete. Meanwhile, he said, the rebel fighters who are under the Western-backed coalition’s umbrella will continue to lose ground, not only to Mr. Assad’s forces but also to extremist rivals among the rebels.
流亡中的叙利亚主要反对党，叙利亚反对派和革命力量全国联盟(the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces)成员萨米尔·那沙(Samir Nashar)指出，该协议的言下之意似乎是阿萨德将继续执政，至少到2014年中旬，清除化学武器库存的协议执行结束之时。同时，他认为，西方联盟支持的反对派战斗人员，无论是在与政府军的斗争中，还是与反对派中的极端分子的斗争中，都会节节败退。
“This chaos will be extended,” Mr. Nashar said in an interview in Istanbul.
“混乱局面将拖得更长，”那沙在伊斯坦布尔接受采访时说。
Mr. Assad appeared to have bought time for another goal as well: his current term as president ends in 2014, and his supporters have long said that he would hang on to complete his term and seek another, and that the West, fearing radical Islamists among the rebels, would acquiesce.
阿萨德似乎为达成另一个目标也赢得了时间：他的总统任期将于2014年结束，而支持者们一直表示，他会坚持完成任期，并寻求连任。而对反对派中的极端伊斯兰主义分子疑虑重重的西方，也会默许这个做法。
Rebels and their supporters reacted angrily on Sunday to an assertion by Mr. Obama that the deal could ensure that “the worst weapons, the indiscriminate weapons that don’t distinguish between a soldier and an infant, are not used.” The Syrian government’s air and artillery strikes on civilian neighborhoods also fail to discriminate between combatants and noncombatants, they said, and the Assad forces have shown few qualms about inflicting suffering on civilians.
奥巴马断言，该协议将确保，“这种最糟糕的武器，这种不对战士和婴儿进行区别对待的武器，将不会再得到使用。”对此，叙利亚反对派及其支持者周日表示愤慨。他们说，叙利亚政府对平民社区进行的空袭和炮击，也没有对战斗人员和非战斗人员进行区别对待，而且阿萨德的部队对于给平民造成的苦难似乎并未感到不安。
For their part, Syrian officials insisted that while the deal entailed acknowledging that the country possessed chemical weapons, they did not see it as an admission that they had used them.
而叙利亚官员则坚称，接受协议，意味着承认该国持有化学武器，但这并不表示承认使用了这些武器。
“It helps avoid the war against Syria, depriving those who wanted to launch it of arguments to do so,” the country’s reconciliation minister, Ali Haidar, told the Russian news agency RIA Novosti. “It’s a victory for Syria.”
“这有助于避免针对叙利亚的战争，剥夺了那些想要发动战争的人的理由，”叙利亚全国和解事务部长(reconciliation minister)阿里·海达(Ali Haidar)告诉俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti )，“对叙利亚而言，这是个胜利。”
Seeing the diplomacy advancing quickly without them, the opposition coalition — notorious for feuding and indecision — moved to reassert its relevance. The coalition selected an interim prime minister on Saturday, and it said that a cabinet that would administer areas nominally under rebel control would be chosen within two weeks. It announced that a Kurdish political coalition had joined it, possibly broadening its appeal.
没有反对派参与的外交进程已快速展开。为此，反对派联盟——素来内讧不断，犹豫不决——开始行动，以再次确立其地位。联盟在周六任命了过渡总理，并表示将在两周内组成内阁，以管理反对派在名义上控制的地区。它同时还宣布，一库尔德族政治联盟已加入反对派。而这有可能助其扩大声势。