Spread far and wide across Syria, the chemical weapons complex of the fractured state includes factories, bunkers, storage depots and thousands of munitions, all of which would have to be inspected and secured under a diplomatic initiative that President Obama says he is willing to explore.
在国土四分五裂的叙利亚，化学武器设施遍布全境，它们当中包括众多工厂、掩体、仓库，藏有大量弹药物资。奥巴马总统表示，他愿意就通过外交途径解决叙利亚化武问题展开探索，而这些设施和物资都必须在相关行动中接受核查和收缴。
But monitoring and securing unconventional weapons have proved challenging in places like Iraq, North Korea and Iran — even in peacetime. Syria is bound up in the third year of a bloody civil war, with many of the facilities squarely in battlefields.
然而，即使在和平时期，伊拉克、朝鲜和伊朗的事实也证明，监控和收缴非常规武器困难重重。而叙利亚则陷入了血腥内战的第三个年头，上述很多军事设施正深处战场之中。
“I’m very concerned about the fine print,” said Amy E. Smithson, an expert on chemical weapons at the Monterey Institute of International Studies in California. “It’s a gargantuan task for the inspectors to mothball production, install padlocks, inventory the bulk agent as well as the munitions. Then a lot of it has to be destroyed — in a war zone.”
“我对外交方案中的条款细节深感担忧”，加利福尼亚州蒙特雷国际研究院(Monterey Institute of International Studies)的化武问题专家艾米·E·史密森(Amy E Smithson)表示。“核查人员要终止化武的生产、锁闭设施、清点散装剂和弹药，这是一项艰巨的任务。然后，它们中很多还必须进行销毁——在战区进行。”
“What I’m saying is, ‘Beware of this deal,’ ” Dr. Smithson added. “It’s deceptively attractive.”
“我想说的是，‘这笔交易要当心，’”史密森说。“它太诱人，很具蒙蔽性。”
As difficult as it may be to reach a diplomatic solution to head off a United States strike on Syria, the details of enforcement are themselves complex and uncertain, people with experience monitoring weapons facilities said. Syria would first have to provide specifics about all aspects of its chemical weapons program. But even that step would require negotiation to determine exactly what should be declared and whether certain systems would be covered, because many delivery systems for chemical weapons — including artillery, mortars and multiple-rocket launchers — can also fire conventional weapons.
具有监督武器设施经验的人士称，达成外交解决方案以阻止美国攻击叙利亚本身已是难事，而方案执行方面的细节更是极其复杂，且充满变数。首先，叙利亚必须提交其化武项目全方面的具体信息。然而，即使是这一步骤，也可能需要通过谈判来确定申报的具体对象，以及某些系统是否需要包括在内，因为化学武器的很多种施放系统也用于发射常规武器——这包括火炮、迫击炮和多管火箭炮等。
Then, experts said, large numbers of foreign troops would almost certainly be needed to safeguard inspectors working in the midst of the civil war.
此外，专家还表示，几乎可以肯定的是，需要大量外国军队来保护在内战中开展工作的核查员。
“We’re talking boots on the ground,” said one former United Nations weapons inspector from Iraq, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he still works in the field on contracts and did not want to undermine his chances of future employment. “We’re not talking about just putting someone at the gate. You have to have layers of security.”
“我们说的是派遣地面部队，”一位来自伊拉克的前联合国武器核查员说道。作为外包商，他仍在此领域展开工作，为了保护将来的工作前景而要求匿名。“我们谈的绝不是仅仅派个人去把门，而是一定要有多重安全措施。”
Destruction and deactivation of those weapons could then take years.
这些武器的销毁和拆除可能需要数年时间。
The Obama administration is skeptical about whether this approach might work. A senior administration official called securing chemical arms in a war zone “just the first nightmare of making this work.”
奥巴马政府对这一方案能否起效持怀疑态度。一位高级幕僚称，在战区收缴化学武器的行动“仅仅是方案实施过程的第一个梦魇”。
A Pentagon study concluded that doing so would take more than 75,000 troops. That rough estimate has been questioned, but the official said it gave “a sense of the magnitude of the task.”
美国国防部一项研究得出的结论是，完成这项计划可能需要超过75,000人的兵力。尽管这一粗略估算受到了质疑，该幕僚仍认为它“直观地表明了这项任务的艰巨程度”。
Another riddle centers on arms movement. As President Bashar al-Assad of Syria has lost territory, or has feared that rebels could seize the lethal stockpile, he has consolidated his chemical weapons, administration officials say. Thus the old estimate that intelligence agencies offered — of 42 separate chemical sites — may no longer hold true.
另一个困局的核心是武器被转移的情况。政府幕僚称，因为叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)已失去部分国土，或担心反对派可能夺取威力巨大的武器库存，他已收并了他控制的化学武器。因此，情报部门原有的估计——42个分散的化武据点——可能已不再符合事实。
“We only know a good deal about 19 of them,” said another senior official who has been briefed on the intelligence. Thus, doubts could fester on whether Mr. Assad had turned over his entire arsenal.
“我们只对其中的19个有较好的了解，”另一位听取了有关情报的高级官员说。因此，对阿萨德是否全数上缴化学武器的质疑可能愈演愈烈。
Specialists in ordnance disposal and demilitarization say any effort to account for Syria’s chemical weapons would require huge investments of resources and time, and the likely assumption of battlefield risk. The United Nations already has 110 chemical inspectors stretched thin around the globe, and their ranks would have to swell.
武器处置和非军事化事务方面的专家称，处理叙利亚化学武器的任何努力都将需要资源和时间的巨额投入，并要接受战场可能会带来危险。联合国现有110名化学武器核查员，寥落地分布在全球各地，他们的队伍必须要进行扩充。
“I suspect some casualties would be unavoidable,” said Stephen Johnson, a former British Army chemical warfare expert who served two tours of duty in the Iraqi desert. “The question you have to ask is whether the benefits would be worth that kind of pain.”
“我担心，一些伤亡恐怕在所难免，”曾两度前往伊拉克沙漠地区执行任务的前英军化学武器专家斯蒂芬·约翰逊(Stephen Johnson)说。“必须要问的是，回报能否配得上这种牺牲。”
These are not, experts noted, theoretical issues that may arise, but hard realities.
专家们强调，这并非有可能产生的理论问题，而是残酷的现实。
“Whichever country would be sent in there to try to get the accountability and do the security, and maybe eventually get to the destruction — they will be a target for someone, for one group or another,” the former weapons inspector said. “Because no matter who you are, you get mortared somewhere by one of the parties.”
“无论哪个国家的人被派去那里，试图清点化武、执行收缴、或许最终进行销毁——他们都将成为某些人的目标，不是一派就是另一派，”这名前武器核查员说道。“因为你不管身份如何，总会在某些地方遭到某方的炮击。”
On the outskirts of Al-Safira, a town in northern Syria, for example, the government runs a giant, heavily guarded plant for the production of the deadly nerve gas implicated in the Aug. 21 massacre in the Damascus suburbs. That area is often a focus of pitched battles. While the plant remains under apparently firm Syrian military control, rebels in the countryside harass the place and the roads leading to the town, raising fears that the plant’s chemical prize could fall into extremely unfriendly hands.
例如，在叙利亚北部城镇萨菲拉(Al-Safira)的郊区，叙利亚政府运行着一座庞大而戒备森严的工厂，以生产神经毒气，这种毒气涉嫌在8月21日大马士革(Damascus)城郊的屠杀中被使用。像这样的地方通常会是激战争夺的焦点。虽然有迹象表明，该工厂仍处在叙利亚政府军的牢固控制下，但农村地区的反对派武装常对那里和通向该城的道路发起袭扰，这引发了对该工厂的化学武器作为战利品落入极端敌对力量之手的担忧。
In more peaceful circumstances, United Nation inspectors have overseen the destruction of most of the world’s declared stockpiles of chemical arms. They do so under the Chemical Weapons Convention, a global treaty that bans the development, production, stockpiling and use of the deadly arms.
在更为和平的环境下，联合国核查员曾依照《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)监督了全球大部分已申报化学武器储备的销毁。该公约是一项国际性条约，要求禁止研制、生产、储备和使用化学武器这种杀伤力巨大的军火。
The United Nations inspection unit — the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, known as the O.P.C.W. and based in The Hague — has so far verified the destruction in seven countries of millions of weapons holding thousands of tons of deadly agent and would likely play a similar role in Syria if a verifiable plan can be reached.
联合国的核查部门——位于海牙的禁止化学武器组织（Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, 缩写为OPCW）——迄今已核实了7个国家共计数百万件化学武器的销毁，这些已销毁武器包含数千吨致人死命的制剂。如果能够制定一个具有可核实性的方案，该组织将在叙利亚发挥类似的作用。
Syria never signed the 1993 treaty, which went into force in 1997. So an accord by which the United Nations unit would monitor the destruction of Syria’s chemical arsenal would likely go through Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the United Nations. At his direction, the chemical inspectors have already gone to Syria to investigate the Aug. 21 massacre. The United Nations has not said when it planned to release their report on that investigation.
叙利亚从未加入1993年制订、1997年生效的《禁止化学武器公约》。因此，授权该组织在叙利亚开展化学武器销毁监督工作的协议很有可能通过联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)实现。得到他的派遣，化武核查员已前往叙利亚调查8月21日的惨案。联合国尚未说明，计划何时公布调查报告。
The United Nations inspectors have traveled to Bosnia and Herzegovina, China, France, India, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Libya, Russia, Serbia, Britain and the United States to oversee the destruction and deactivation of chemical weapons plants. On its Web site, the O.P.C.W. says more than 80 percent of the world’s declared stockpiles have been eliminated to date. The nations with the biggest arsenals — the United States and Russia — have received deadline extensions.
联合国核查员曾赴波黑、中国、法国、印度、伊朗、伊拉克、日本、利比亚、俄罗斯、塞尔维亚、英国和美国，监督化学武器制造设施的拆除和销毁。O.P.C.W.网站称，全世界迄今已清除了超过80%的已申报化学武器库存。持有化学武器最多的国家——美国和俄罗斯——得到了截止期限的展期。
A total of 70 plants and facilities declared under the 1993 treaty are now disabled and subject to what the organization calls “a verification regime of unprecedented stringency.”
根据1993年条约申报的70座化武工厂和设施已被解除功能，置于该组织所称的“空前严格的核查制度”之下。
Military experts fear that forcing Syria to disarm would be far more difficult than dealing with nations that volunteered to eliminate their chemical arsenals.
军事专家担心，强迫叙利亚解除化学武装，其难度远高于同自愿清除化学武器的国家开展工作。
Raymond A. Zilinskas, a senior scientist at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and a former United Nations weapons inspector, said the inspectors might have to become chemical detectives in search of hidden arms.
蒙特雷国际研究院的高级研究员、前联合国武器核查员雷蒙德·A·齐林斯卡斯(Raymond A. Zilinskas)称，派往叙利亚的核查员恐怕不得不担当化学侦探的角色，搜寻隐藏的武器。
“I worry about that,” he said in an interview. “How do you verify that all Syrian weapons are known and under control?”
“我对此感到担忧，”他接受采访时说。“你如何确认，知悉了叙利亚所有的化学武器，并已将其掌控？”
Mr. Johnson, now a forensic expert at Cranfield University at Shrivenham in Britain, said in an interview: “After more than 20 years in Iraq, the job still isn’t finished. Syria could be worse.”
斯蒂芬·约翰逊现任克兰菲尔德大学(Cranfield University)的化武侦测专家，该校位于英国的什里文汉(Shrivenham)。他在采访中说道：“在伊拉克，20多年之后，化武工作仍未了结。叙利亚可能更糟。”