Using public toilets in China can often be a challenging undertaking, particularly for those not practiced in the art of squatting. But researchers in China have come up with a new technology that they say can help eliminate one of the most noxious of problems to plague China’s public lavatories: the overpowering stench.
在中国，使用公共厕所往往是一件颇具挑战性的事情，对那些不能熟练深蹲的人而言尤其如此。但中国的研究人员发明了一项新技术，称这项技术能帮助消除困扰中国公厕的最严重的问题之一：刺鼻的臭味。
Unlike chemical solutions, which are expensive and can be harmful to the environment, the new biotreatment is being touted as an environmentally friendly, cost-effective way to resolve up to 75 percent of the odors in bathrooms, according to researchers with the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
不同于昂贵且可能危及环境的化学手段，这个新的生物处理办法被称为一种环保、经济的方式，中国科学院的研究人员称，这个办法能分解高达75%的公厕臭气。
The science behind the treatment lies in a special mixture of two types of bacteria — lactobacillius sp and streptococcus thermopiles — as well as the essence of tangerines. The prepared mixture, which comes in liquid or powder form, feeds on human waste when applied, thereby precluding the growth of aroma-making bacteria.
这一处理办法背后的技术原理涉及一种特殊的混合物，该混合物由两类细菌——乳杆菌类细菌和嗜热链球菌——和橘子香精组成。事先备好的这种混合物呈液体或粉末状，使用时会分解人类排泄物，从而防止长出会产生气味的细菌。
Not yet available in supermarkets, the odor-killing technology is still undergoing testing, said Yan Zhiying, a bacteriologist at the Chengdu Institute of Biology and the lead researcher on the project.
成都生物研究所的细菌学家、该项目的首席研究员闫志英表示，这种除味技术目前还处在测试阶段，尚未向市场推出。
Large-scale experiments with the solution are being planned in the Huanglong Nature Preserve and Jiuzhaigou National Park, both popular tourist destinations in Sichuan Province.
相关人员正计划在四川的黄龙自然保护区和九寨沟景区对该方案进行大规模试验，这两个地方都是热门的旅游景点。
The technology is especially suited for use in the nonflushing toilets often found in these types of nature preserves, Mr. Yan said, since water regulations in these areas are often very strict and plumbing is difficult to install.
闫志英表示，该技术尤其适用于非冲水式厕所。自然保护区经常会出现这种厕所，因为那些地区的用水规定往往非常严格，并且很难安装管道系统。
Mr. Yan added that portable bathrooms, while convenient, are relatively expensive to maintain compared with the biosolution.
闫志英接着说，便携厕所虽然方便，但和这个生物处理办法比，保养费用相对昂贵。
“This way tourists can see that not only are your mountains nice, but the toilets and the other facilities at the site are pleasant as well,” said Mr. Yan, who said that the technology has other applications as well, such as the treatment of landfills.
“通过这个办法，游客会发现，不仅你这里的山美，景区的厕所和其他设施也很好，”闫志英说。他表示，该技术还有其他用途，比如应用于垃圾填埋场。