BEIJING — To the untutored ear, the Beijing dialect can sound like someone talking with a mouthful of marbles, inspiring numerous parodies and viral videos. Its colorful vocabulary and distinctive pronunciation have inspired traditional performance arts such as cross-talk, a form of comic dialogue, and “kuaibanr,’’ storytelling accompanied by bamboo clappers.
北京——在没听过的人的耳朵里，北京方言听起来像是说话的人嘴里含满了弹球儿，引来许多滑稽的模仿和爆红的视频。一些传统表演艺术从北京话丰富多彩的词汇和独特的发音中获得灵感，比如双人喜剧对话“相声”，以及用竹板打着拍子讲故事的“快板儿”。
But the Beijing dialect is disappearing, a victim of language standardization in schools and offices, urban redevelopment, and migration. In 2013, officials and academics in the Chinese capital began a project to record the dialect’s remaining speakers before it fades away completely. The material is to be released to the public as an online museum and interactive database by year’s end.
但是，北京方言正在消失，其原因包括在学校和办公室使用标准语言、旧城改造和外来人口。2013年，中国首都的官员和学者开始了一个项目，在这种方言完全消失之前，把仍会说北京话的人的发音录制下来。今年年底，他们将把收集到的材料以在线博物馆和互动数据库的形式公布于众。
“You almost never hear the old Beijing dialect on the city streets nowadays,” said Gao Guosen, 68, who has been identified by the city government as a “pure” speaker. “I don’t even speak it anymore with my family members or childhood friends.”
“如今在北京的大街上，你几乎一点儿也听不到老北京话了，”68岁的高国森说，他的北京话被市政府认为很“地道”。“就连和家人或小时候的哥们儿在一起时，我也不说北京话了。”
The dialect’s most marked characteristic is its habit of adding an “r” to the end of syllables. This, coupled with the frequent “swallowing” of consonants can give the Beijing vernacular a punchy, jocular feel. For example, “buzhidao,’’ standard Chinese for ‘‘I don’t know,’’ becomes “burdao’’ in the Beijing dialect. “Laoshi,’’ or teacher,’ can come out sounding “laoer.”
北京方言最显着的特征是在音节结尾处添加“儿”话音。这个特点，加上频繁地将辅音“吞掉”的习惯让北京方言具有一种简练、诙谐地感觉。比如，标准汉语的“不知道”在北京方言中成了“背儿到”。“老师”有时听起来像“老二儿”。
In the 1930s, China began defining and promoting a common language for the country, referred to in English as Mandarin, that drew heavily, but far from completely, on the Beijing dialect. The government’s introduction of an official Romanization system in the 1950s reinforced standardized pronunciation for Chinese characters. These measures enhanced communication among Chinese from different regions, but they also diminished the relevance of dialects. A 2010 study by Beijing Union University found that 49 percent of local Beijing residents born after 1980 would rather speak Mandarin than the Beijing dialect, while 85 percent of migrants to Beijing preferred that their children learn Mandarin.
在20世纪30年代，中国开始在全国定义和推广一种共同语言，既普通话，普通话的许多发音来自北京方言，但不是所有的。政府在20世纪50年代推出了用拉丁字母拼写汉字的官方系统，进一步强化了汉字的标准发音。这些措施增强了来自不同地区的中国人之间的沟通，但也削弱了方言的作用。北京联合大学2010年的一项研究发现，在1980年以后出生的北京本地居民中，有49％的人宁愿说普通话而不说北京方言，而85％的外来人口希望他们的孩子学习普通话。
The remaking of the city has also played a role in diluting the language. Into the mid-20th century, much of Beijing’s population lived clustered in the hutongs, or alleyways, that crisscrossed the neighborhoods surrounding the Forbidden City. Today, only a small fraction of an estimated 3,700 hutongs remain, their residents often scattered to apartment complexes on the city’s outskirts. And the city has become a magnet for migrants from other parts of China. According to China’s last national census, an average of about 450,000 people moved to Beijing each year between 2000 and 2010, making about one-third of Beijing’s residents nonlocals.
北京的旧城改造也起了稀释方言的作用。直到20世纪中期，北京绝大多数人口仍生活在拥挤的胡同里，胡同在故宫周围的居民区里纵横交错。如今，估计原有的3700条胡同中，只有一小部分仍然存在，胡同中原来的居民通常已搬到城市郊区的公寓楼里。北京早已成为吸引中国其他地区外来人口的地方。根据中国上次的全国人口普查，在2000年至2010年间，平均每年有45万人迁入北京，这意味着三分之一的北京居民不在本地出生。
Mr. Gao, a diminutive man with a booming voice, remembers how different it used to be.
高国森仍记得以前与现在大不一样。他虽然身材不高，但声音洪亮。
“Until this project, I didn’t even know that what I was speaking was a dialect, because everyone around me used to speak like that,” Mr. Gao said in his new apartment, not far from the hutong where he lived for more than 60 years.
“参加这个项目之前，压根儿就不知道我说的是方言，因为我周围的人都这么说，”高国森在他的新公寓里说，新公寓离他曾经居住过60多年的胡同不远。
According to the United Nations, nearly 100 Chinese dialects, many of them spoken by China’s 56 recognized ethnic minorities, are in danger of dying out. Efforts are also underway in Shanghai, as well as in Jiangsu and five other provinces, to create databases as part of a project under the Ministry of Education to research dialects and cultural practices nationwide.
据联合国的一份材料，有近百种中国方言处于濒危状态，其中许多是中国56个得到官方承认的少数民族的语言。上海、江苏及其他五个省份也在努力建立数据库，作为教育部的一个研究方言和全国各地文化传统项目的部分内容。
Yet the potential loss of the Beijing dialect is especially alarming because of the cultural heft it commands.
然而，由于北京话在文化上所占据的重要地位，它的潜在消失尤其令人震惊。
“As China’s ancient and modern capital, Beijing and thus its linguistic culture as well are representative of our entire nation’s civilization,” said Zhang Shifang, a professor at the Beijing Language and Culture University who oversaw the effort to record native speakers. “For Beijing people themselves, the Beijing dialect is an important symbol of identity.”
“作为中国古代的和现代的首都，北京及其语言文化代表着我们整个民族的文明，”北京语言文化大学教授张世方说。“对北京本地人来说，北京方言是身份的重要标志。”
The dialect is a testament to the city’s tumultuous history of invasion and foreign rule. The Mongol Empire ruled China in the 13th and 14th centuries. The Manchus, an ethnic group from northeast Asia, ruled from the mid-17th century into the 20th. As a result, the Beijing dialect contains words derived from both Mongolian and Manchurian. The intervening Ming dynasty, which maintained its first capital in Nanjing for several decades before moving to Beijing, introduced southern speech elements.
北京方言见证了北京受侵略和被外族统治的动荡历史。蒙古帝国曾在13和14世纪统治中国。来自东北亚的满族曾从17世纪中叶到20世纪初统治中国。所以，北京方言中包含了来自蒙语和满语的词汇。元朝和清朝之间的明朝，在头几十年里曾把南京作为首都，后迁都北京，因此将一些南方语言元素引入了北京话。
The Beijing dialect varied within the city itself. The historically wealthier neighborhoods north of the Forbidden City spoke with an accent considered more refined than that spoken in the poorer neighborhoods to the south, home to craftsmen and performers.
北京方言在北京城里也有差异。故宫以北的历史上较为富裕的居民区里，北京话的发音比在故宫以南较贫穷的居民区的发言更优雅，城南曾是工匠和卖艺者居住在地方。
In Shanghai, some schools teach in Shanghainese rather than Mandarin. The Beijing city government has explored the idea of developing teaching materials in the Beijing dialect. However, these proposals have been criticized by those who fear such lessons would diminish the effectiveness of Mandarin-language education.
上海已有一些学校开设了“上海话”课，不用普通话教学。北京市政府也在探讨编制北京方言授课教材的想法。但是，这些建议受到一些人的批评，他们担心这类课程会削弱普通话教育的有效性。
“As a Beijing native, I personally hope the dialect will survive,’’ said Wang Hong, a third-grade teacher at the Affiliated Elementary School of Peking University. “But if you aren’t a native, there’s no reason to learn Mandarin plus a dialect. You would just confuse the two.”
“作为北京当地人，我个人希望北京话能够继续存在下去，”北京大学附属小学的三年级教师王洪（音）说。“但如果你不是本地人，就没有理由在学习普通话之外，还要学一种方言。那只会把你搞糊涂。”
The researchers documenting the Beijing dialect are quick to stress the preservationist nature of their efforts.
从事录制北京方言的研究人员急于强调其工作的保存性质。
“We aren’t promoting the teaching of dialects in school, because China is still a Mandarin-speaking society,” said He Hongzhi, the director of the forthcoming online dialect museum, which will showcase some of the recordings collected by Professor Zhang.
“我们不是在提倡学校用方言进行教学，因为中国仍然是一个说普通话的社会，”贺宏志说，他是即将公开的中国语言资源有声数据库北京库的负责人，这个在线方言博物馆还将展示张世方收藏的一些录音。
For Mr. Gao, the vanishing dialect of his youth is nothing to be mourned, though he is happy that more people are paying attention.
对高国森来说，他年轻时候说的方言要消失并不是件可悲的事情，虽然他很高兴有更多的人对方言感兴趣。
“Society needs a unified language and culture to develop,’’ he said. “If we restored the old things, then the road ahead wouldn’t exist.”
“社会需要一种统一的语言，需要文化的发展，”他说。“如果我们老要恢复旧的东西，就没有前进的道路了。”
“But I love to listen to the Beijing dialect,’’ he said. “It is something innate. When I speak the Beijing dialect, it comes naturally from my heart.”
“但我喜欢听北京话，”他说。“那是天生的。我说北京话时，是发自内心的。”