MOSCOW — Having just quieted the furor over its seizure of a Greenpeace International ship in the Arctic, Russia is embroiled in a new dispute with the environmental organization, this time over a Russian fishing trawler accused of poaching in coastal waters off Senegal.
莫斯科——刚刚平息因在北极地区扣押绿色和平国际(Greenpeace International)的船只引发的喧嚣，俄罗斯又卷入了与该环保组织的一场新纠纷，这一次的原因是一艘俄罗斯拖网渔船被控在塞内加尔沿海进行非法捕捞。
The Oleg Naydenov, a Russian-owned fishing boat, was seized by the Senegalese military on Saturday and taken to the port of Dakar, accused of trawling in the country’s exclusive economic zone.
周六，塞内加尔军方扣押了俄罗斯渔船“奥列格·纳伊焦诺夫号”(Oleg Naydenov)，把渔船带到了达喀尔港，指控其在本国的专属经济区内拉网捕捞。
Senegal’s Fishing Ministry has demanded more than $800,000 in fines, while the Russian government has called for a diplomatic resolution to the standoff.
塞内加尔渔业部已要求俄方缴纳逾80万美元（约合484万元人民币）的罚款，俄罗斯政府则呼吁通过外交途径化解僵局。
With talks repeatedly delayed in Senegal through Wednesday evening, the Russian government has blamed Greenpeace for the troubles. Officials in Moscow say the group encouraged Senegal to detain the boat and forced “Senegal to act according to Greenpeace press releases.”
周三一整晚，在塞内加尔举行的谈判反复延后，俄罗斯政府因此指责绿色和平从中作梗。莫斯科官员表示，正是该组织怂恿塞内加尔扣押渔船，并逼迫“塞内加尔按照绿色和平的新闻稿采取行动”。
Just three weeks ago, Russia amnestied 30 crew members aboard the Greenpeace ship the Arctic Sunrise who had been detained for more than three months after staging a maritime protest against Russia’s first offshore oil rig in the Arctic.
就在三周前，俄罗斯刚刚赦免了绿色和平船只“极地曙光号”(Arctic Sunrise)的30名船员。该船船员曾发起海上抗议，反对俄罗斯在北极建设首个海上石油钻井平台，之后就被俄方扣押了三个多月。
Greenpeace has taken an outsize position in the dispute, said Aleksandr A. Savelyev, a representative of the Russian fishing agency, and its actions have a “clearly mercenary character.”
俄罗斯渔业机构的代表亚历山大·A·萨韦利耶夫(Aleksandr A. Savelyev)说，绿色和平在此次纠纷中的立场有些过分，该组织的行动带有“明显的雇佣军色彩”。
“I am far from the thought that this is some kind of crude revenge for the Arctic Sunrise’s actions that led to the arrest of the activists for their protest” in the Arctic, Mr. Savelyev said in a telephone interview. “But I will say that Greenpeace’s actions are reminiscent of a woman of little social responsibility who can be used by any person of means.”
萨韦利耶夫在一次电话采访中说，“‘极地曙光号’的行动导致活动人士因抗议行动而在北极地区被捕，我绝不认为，此事是为‘极地曙光号’遭遇而进行的某种粗鄙报复。但我认为，绿色和平的行动让人想到一个没什么社会责任感的妇女，任何有钱人都可以利用她。”
Ahmed Diame, a Greenpeace activist based in Dakar who tracks sustainable fishing practices, denied that Greenpeace had influenced Senegal’s decision to detain the trawler or had any contacts with the local government, though he said that Greenpeace supported the Senegalese military’s actions.
住在达喀尔的艾哈迈德·迪亚梅(Ahmed Diame)是追踪可持续渔业活动的绿色和平活动人士，他否认绿色和平组织对塞内加尔扣押拖网渔船的决定施加了影响，同时否认该组织与当地政府有任何联系。但他表示，绿色和平组织支持塞内加尔军方的行动。
“These accusations are just a way for the Russian government to avoid taking responsibility,” he said in a telephone interview.
“这些指责只是俄罗斯政府推卸责任的方式，”他在接受电话采访时说。
Greenpeace previously targeted the Oleg Naydenov, which Mr. Diame called “among the worst offenders” of fishing laws on the Senegalese coast, and in 2012 the organization painted the words “pillage” and “plunder” on the ship’s hull in protest.
绿色和平组织之前就曾把“奥列格·纳伊焦诺夫号”列为目标，迪亚梅称该船是违反塞内加尔海岸渔业法律的“头号罪犯之一”。2012年，为了表示抗议，该组织在该船船身涂上了“抢劫”和“掠夺”字样。
The Senegalese fisheries minister, Haidar el-Ali, told journalists on Sunday that the ship’s owners could face an $800,000 fine for repeated violations of Senegal’s fishing laws, which he said cost the country more than $300 million each year.
塞内加尔渔业部长艾达尔·阿里(Haidar el-Ali)周日对记者说，因为多次违反塞内加尔的渔业法律，该船船主将面临80万美元的罚款。他说，相关违法行为导致塞内加尔每年损失超过3亿美元。
“They are bandits, and we will fight against these bandits,” Mr. Ali said.
“他们是强盗，我们会和这些强盗进行斗争，”阿里说。
A spokesman for the Senegalese president could not be reached on Wednesday to comment on when talks with the Russian authorities would resume. The Russian Foreign Ministry said on Monday that it would take “further steps for the quick release and return to sea” of the ship.
周三，记者无法联系到塞内加尔总统的发言人，未能请其就何时恢复与俄罗斯官方的谈判置评。俄罗斯外交部周一表示，将采取“进一步的措施，以期”让该船“尽快获释，重回大海”。
Russian officials on Wednesday noted that no formal charges had been brought against the crew of the trawler and added that the Senegalese commandos who stormed the boat had injured the captain and were now denying him necessary medical care.
俄罗斯官员周三指出，拖网渔船上的船员尚未受到正式指控。他们补充说，突袭该船的塞内加尔突击队员打伤了船长，现在还拒绝为他提供必要的医疗护理。
As to Mr. Ali, he “is the head of the Green Party of Senegal,” which is allied with Greenpeace, Mr. Savelyev said, and “as is well known, he had the authority to order the Senegal commandos to carry out this kind of operation.”
说到阿里的时候，萨韦利耶夫称他“是塞内加尔绿党(Green Party of Senegal)的负责人”，该组织是绿色和平组织的盟友，而且“众所周知的是，他有权下令塞内加尔突击队员执行这种行动”。
He continued: “It all points to some kind of a connection.”
他接着说：“所有这些都指向了某种联系。”