At first the police in the southeastern city of Wenzhou suspected the two men were loading a human corpse into their S.U.V. The person-shaped object they were carrying was wrapped in a striped tarpaulin, of the kind commonly seen on construction sites across China, and bound in rope.
起初，中国东南部城市温州的警察怀疑那两个人正在往越野车上搬运一具人尸。该物体被包裹在中国建筑工地常见的条纹编织袋里，捆着绳子，形状像是一个人。
So Zheng Chuan and Ji Kewu, Wenzhou city special police officers who were on their way to a training session Wednesday morning, stopped their vehicle to investigate, the news portal Wenzhou Online reported. Further arousing their suspicions, one of the men immediately fled the scene.
新闻门户网站“温州在线”报道，本周三上午，温州特警郑川和季克武在前往训练的途中停下车，准备对可疑情况进行检查。其中一名男子立刻逃离了现场，这进一步引起了他们的怀疑。
But when they unwrapped the tarpaulin, the two officers were stunned to find a dead tiger. The police apprehended the man who had remained by the S.U.V. and compounded the tiger and the vehicle, according to a notice posted on an official Sina Weibo account.
但是，当编织袋被解开时，两名警官惊讶地发现里面是一只死去的老虎。当地警方在新浪微博的官方账号称，他们抓获了越野车旁的另一名男子，并扣押了虎尸和车辆。
The police identified the man in custody as the owner of the S.U.V., a 31-year-old surnamed Wang from Fuzhou, in Jiangxi Province, and said they had detained him on suspicion of illegal trade in an endangered species. The police report said the authorities suspected the carcass to be of a Siberian, or Amur, tiger, one of the world’s most endangered animals, and had sent samples to be tested. As of Thursday, the police said the investigation was continuing. No information was released on the suspect who ran away.
警方已经确定了这名被拘男子的身份：他姓王，是这辆越野车的车主，31岁，来自江西抚州。警方表示，此人因涉嫌非法买卖濒危野生动物遭到拘留。警方的报告称，他们怀疑这是一只东北虎，或称阿穆尔虎，是世界上最濒危的物种之一，他们已经送样进行测试。截至本周四，警方表示调查仍在继续。那名在逃犯罪嫌疑人的信息未被公布。
Under Chinese criminal law, anyone convicted of illegally capturing, killing or trading in endangered species can face fines and 10 years in prison.
根据中国刑法，非法猎捕、杀害或买卖濒危野生动物可被判处罚款和10年有期徒刑。
According to the conservation group W.W.F., there are now only around 450 Siberian tigers left in the wild, mostly in Russia. The Siberian tiger was once thought to be extinct in China because of environmental degradation and poaching, but government and nongovernmental organization efforts to protect the tigers’ natural habitat in the northeast have met with some success in recent years. Forestry officials estimated in 2013 that there were 18 to 22 wild Siberian tigers in China.
世界自然基金会(W.W.F.)的资料显示，野生东北虎目前只有450只左右，主要分布在俄罗斯。因为环境退化和偷猎，东北虎一度被认为已经在中国灭绝，但政府和非政府组织在东北保护老虎栖息地的努力已经在最近几年取得了一些成效。林业官员2013年估计，中国有18至22只野生东北虎。
The captive tiger population is much larger. In a report last year, the London-based conservation group Environmental Investigation Agency estimated that China had 5,000 to 6,000 tigers in captivity, including Siberian tigers.
圈养老虎的数量则多得多。在去年的一份报告中，总部位于伦敦的保护组织环境调查署(Environmental Investigation Agency)估计，包括东北虎在内，中国共有5000到6000只圈养老虎。
Visitors to the Harbin Siberian Tiger Park in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang can take bus tours through a vast outdoor reserve that is home to more than 600 captive Siberian tigers, as well as lions and other large cats. Tigers, solitary animals by nature, can be see congregating in groups at the park, where their diet is fortified by the occasional chicken or sheep that tourists can pay to have released.
在黑龙江省东北部哈尔滨的东北虎林园，游客可搭乘观光巴士，穿过一个大型户外区域，那里圈养着600多只东北虎，还有一些狮子和其他大型猫科动物。老虎本来是一种独居动物，但游客可以在这个公园里看到它们聚集成群，还可以购买专供的活鸡或活羊进行投食。
A significant threat to the tiger population, animal conservation groups say, comes from increasing demand for tiger skins and tiger bone wine, which is thought to have medicinal qualities. Although China has ratified the United Nations Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, which also calls for prohibitions on domestic trade, the Environmental Investigation Agency says that China continues to allow trade in tiger parts from captive tigers.
动物保护组织表示，虎骨酒被认为具有药用价值，对虎皮和虎骨酒的需求日益增长是对老虎种群数量的一个巨大威胁。虽然中国已经批准了《联合国濒危野生动植物国际贸易公约》(United Nations Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species），也颁发了国内贸易禁令，但环境调查署说，中国仍然允许买卖圈养老虎的虎骨。
Rising demand from a growing middle class in China has also stimulated trade in other animal products in recent years, including elephant ivory. The government has taken steps to crack down on this illegal trade, most recently winning plaudits from conservationist organizations for destroying more than six tons of confiscated ivory.
近年来，中国的中产阶层不断壮大，他们日益增长的需求也刺激了象牙等其他动物制品的买卖。中国政府已经采取措施打击这种非法贸易，最近销毁6吨多没收象牙的行动就赢得了环保组织的喝彩。