HONG KONG — The Chinese state news media reported Tuesday that at least 22 people had died in the collapse of four residential buildings in an eastern city the day before, a toll that would make it one of the deadliest cases of its kind in recent years.
香港——中国官方新闻媒体本周二报道，一天前，东部一座城市的四座民宅垮塌，导致至少22人死亡，这是近年来死亡人数最多的事件之一。
The buildings, cramped six-story quarters for migrant workers in the city of Wenzhou, collapsed about 3:25 a.m. on Monday, the state-run Zhejiang Daily reported. Neighbors, flashlights in hand, began to sift through the rubble before rescue workers arrived, the paper said. Early reports indicated that several people had been killed, but the toll rose as rescue efforts continued Monday and overnight.
据官方报纸《浙江日报》报道，温州市的几栋住满了农民工的六层楼房于周一凌晨3时25分左右倒塌。报纸说，在救援人员到达之前，邻居们就打着手电筒在废墟中展开搜寻工作。早期的报道称有数人遇难，但随着救援行动持续到周一通宵，死亡人数有所增加。
Chinese television showed scenes of dozens of rescue workers, some in orange coveralls and others in military fatigues, digging by hand through the rubble. By Tuesday morning, six people had been rescued, including a 3-year-old girl who was pulled from the wreckage on Monday evening, the state news media reported. Reports suggested that the girl’s father, who was killed, appeared to have shielded her from the building’s collapse.
中国电视台播放了数十名救援人员在现场的画面，一些人穿着橙色工作服，另一些人穿军装，他们徒手在废墟里挖掘。官方新闻媒体报道，截止周二上午，已有六人被救出，包括一名3岁的女孩，她是周一晚被人从废墟中救出来的。女孩的父亲已经遇难，报道表示，他似乎在大楼倒塌时用身体保护了女儿。
Wenzhou, a bustling coastal city in Zhejiang Province, is a major manufacturing hub for goods like shoes and purses, and its factories attract thousands of migrant workers from across the country. The 3-year-old’s parents had worked in a shoe factory, and the girl spent most of the year with her grandparents thousands of miles away, her aunt told a local news website, Zhejiang Online.
温州是浙江省的一座繁华的沿海城市，也是皮鞋和钱包等商品的主要制造中心，这里的工厂吸引了来自全国各地的数以万计的农民工。那位3岁女孩的姑妈告诉当地一家新闻网站“浙江在线”，女孩的父母在一家鞋厂工作，女孩大部分时间都住在数千里外的祖父母家。
The cause of the collapse was unclear on Tuesday, but several state news outlets reported that the four structures, which were next to each other, had been built by rural workers. They were part of a neighborhood of ramshackle, low-rise apartment buildings, portions of which officials and developers had wanted to demolish, according to a report in The Beijing News. The report said some residents had resisted the effort, which had been going on for two years, by refusing to move or demanding levels of compensation that the local government was unwilling to pay.
楼房倒塌的原因周二仍不清楚，但一些官方新闻媒体报道称，这四栋相邻的楼房是农民工自建的。楼房位于一个破旧低层公寓楼居民区，《新京报》的一篇报道说，官员和开发商曾打算对部分居民区进行改造。报道称，拆迁工作两年前就已经启动，但一些居民对改造进行了抵制，他们或拒绝搬走，或要求得到更高的赔偿，而当地官员则不愿拿出更多的钱。
By Monday evening, the top two officials in Zhejiang, had arrived in Wenzhou to oversee the rescue efforts, the state-run China News Agency reported.
官方的中国新闻社报道说，周一晚上，浙江的两名最高官员已抵达温州监督救援工作。
Building collapses are not unusual in China, whose cities have mushroomed in the past several decades as hundreds of millions of rural residents flocked to them in search of work. Shoddy construction is rampant. Poorly built structures, or “tofu buildings.” 
建筑物倒塌的事件在中国并不罕见，在过去几十年里，数以亿计的农村人口涌入城市寻找工作，城市迅速发展起来。劣质建筑相当常见。劣质建筑也被称为“豆腐渣建筑”。
In the district of Wenzhou where the collapse occurred, more than 1,400 buildings were deemed unsafe and in need of reinforcement or demolition in 2014, Wenzhou Daily reported at the time.
《温州日报》2014年的一篇报道说，那年的排查发现，温州发生楼房坍塌事件的市区有1400多栋建筑属于危房，需要加固或拆除。