REDMOND, Wash.
华盛顿州，雷德蒙德。
TUCKED in the woods here, west of State Route 520, is a little piece of the Mario Kingdom.
华盛顿州520号公路西侧树林深处，是马里奥王国的一角。
Behind the unassuming doors is the business built by Mario, the pudgy plumber, and Luigi, his lanky brother, as well as characters like Link, wielder of the mystical Master Sword, and Princess Zelda, of the royal family of Hyrule. All of them, and more, are the pixelated children of Shigeru Miyamoto, the Walt Disney of video games and creative genius of the Nintendo Company of Japan.
朴实无华的大门后面，是矮胖的水管工马里奥(Mario)、他瘦高的弟弟路易吉(Luigi)，和使用神秘的“大师之剑”的林克(Link)，以及海拉尔(Hyrule)皇族塞尔达公主(Princess Zelda)等角色一同开创的事业。他们和很多其他角色都是宫本茂(Shigeru Miyamoto)像素化的孩子。宫本茂是电视游戏界的沃尔特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)，他还是日本任天堂(Nintendo)公司的创意天才。
But while Mr. Miyamoto is dreaming his dreams across the Pacific, an army of marketing types is at work here in Redmond, inside the shiny new headquarters of Nintendo of America. This palace of play is quiet, but there’s trouble brewing in the world around it: three decades after the mustachioed Mario burst into arcades via Donkey Kong, plucking countless quarters from people’s pockets, the kingdom is under siege.
然而，正当宫本茂在太平洋那一边遨游梦中世界时，一大批营销人员正在位于雷德蒙德的任天堂北美公司熠熠生辉的新总部里忙碌着。这座游戏宫殿十分平静，但麻烦正在它周围的世界里酝酿着：30年前，长着小胡子的马里奥通过《大金刚》(Donkey Kong)出现在游戏厅里，并从人们的钱包里赚走了无数的25美分硬币，而现在，这个王国面临围困。
Nintendo’s enemies have arrived by battalions. Angry Birds, Fruit Ninja and other inexpensive, downloadable games, particularly for cellphones and tablets, have invaded its turf. Changing tastes and technology have called into question the economics of traditional game consoles, whether from Nintendo or Microsoft, maker of the Xbox. Nintendo recently posted the first loss in its era as a video games company, a prospect that would have been unimaginable only a few years ago. And while game consoles aren’t going away, analysts are skeptical that the business will regain its former stature soon.
任天堂的对手已经涌现。《愤怒的小鸟》(Angry Birds)、《水果忍者》(Fruit Ninja)和其他低价的下载游戏，特别是手机和平板电脑上的游戏，已经侵略了任天堂的领土。游戏品味和技术的改变引发了人们对传统的操纵杆游戏的怀疑，无论是任天堂还是Xbox游戏机的制造商微软公司(Microsoft)所生产的游戏机都受到了质疑。近期，任天堂宣布在其成为电视游戏公司以来出现首次亏损，而这在几年前还是不可想象的。虽然游戏机不会消失，但是分析人士依然对其能否迅速重整旗鼓持怀疑态度。
All of which makes Nintendo’s next move, and what is happening here, so crucial. Nintendo counterattacked on Nov. 18, when a new version of its Wii game console arrived in stores nationwide.
这一切都使得任天堂的下一步动作和在这里发生的事情显得至关重要。11月18日，任天堂用一款新版本的Wii游戏机展开了反攻，该游戏机已经运抵美国全国各地。 The original Wii, the first wireless, motion-capturing console, was nothing less than revolutionary. The simplicity of its controller, which Mr. Miyamoto helped design, attracted new audiences like women and older people. Customers lined up in stores for it — and then it simply faded. Now, the new console, the Wii U, may be Nintendo’s last, best hope for regaining its former glory. Executives are hoping for a holiday hit, and perhaps even another runaway success.
作为第一款无线动态捕捉游戏机，最初的Wii掀起了一场革命。其控制器的简易性赢得了女性和较大龄玩家的青睐。消费者在商店里排队购买。但在这之后，其光环逐渐消散。现在，新的主机Wii U也许会成为任天堂重获荣光最后的也是最好的希望。主管人员希望，它能在节日期间大卖，甚至成为又一个疯狂成功的案例。
Initial demand appears high. GameStop, the video game retailer, opened 3,000 stores at midnight on Thursday for Black Friday sales, and before long almost all its Wii Us were sold out, according to Tony Bartel, GameStop’s president. “I think people are starving for innovation, and Wii U is giving them that innovation," Mr. Bartel says. 
初期需求量似乎很大。据电子游戏零售商游戏驿站(GameStop)的总裁托尼·巴特尔(Tony Bartel)说，为了迎接“黑色星期五”促销，3000家游戏驿站的商店在周四午夜开门迎客，不久之后，几乎所有的Wii U游戏机就被抢购一空。“我认为人们渴望创新，而Wii U就将创新带给了他们。”巴特尔说。
THE Wii U is a recognition that the living room is no longer the province of a single screen. More people, particularly the young, now watch TV with a smartphone or tablet in hand, the better to tweet a touchdown or update their Facebook status during a commercial. The Wii U looks like a mash-up of an iPad and a traditional console, with a touch screen embedded in the middle. It’s no mere festival of joysticks, buttons and triggers.
Wii U游戏机显示，该公司认识到客厅里不再只由一块屏幕主宰。越来越多的人，尤其是年轻群体，现在拿着智能手机或平板电脑看电视，这样可以更好地在播放广告时在Twitter上发一条达阵得分的消息，或是更新一下Facebook状态。中间嵌有一块触摸屏的Wii U看起来像是iPad和传统游戏机的结合体 。它不再只是操纵杆、按键和触发器的简单组合。
But will it be the blowout that Nintendo needs? Many industry veterans and game reviewers are skeptical. They question whether the Wii U can be as successful as the original, now that many gamers have moved on to more abundant, cheaper and more convenient mobile games.
但它会成为任天堂所需要的一次巨大成功吗？许多资深的业界人士和游戏评论家对此表示怀疑。他们质疑，Wii U是否能像第一代那样成功，因为许多玩家现在已经转向了更丰富、更便宜以及更方便的移动游戏了。
“I actually am baffled by it,” Nolan K. Bushnell, the founder of Atari and the godfather of the games business, says of the Wii U. “I don’t think it’s going to be a big success.”
“实际上我对此感到困惑不解。”雅达利(Atari)公司创始人，游戏业教父诺兰·K·布什内尔(Nolan K. Bushnell)在评论Wii U时说。“我认为它不会很成功。”
The bigger question is what the future holds for any of the major game systems, including new ones that Sony and Microsoft are expected to release next year. Echoing other industry veterans, Mr. Bushnell says that consoles are already delivering remarkable graphics and that few but the most hard-core players will be willing to pay hundreds of dollars for a new game box.
而更大的问题是，包括索尼(Sony)和微软在内的所有主流游戏机的未来究竟怎样，这两家公司会在明年发布新机型。和其他资深业界人士观点一致的是，布什内尔说游戏主机已经呈现了非常出色的图像，除了最铁杆的玩家，很少有人会愿意花几百美金来买一个新的游戏机。
“These things will continue to sputter along, but I really don’t think they’ll be of major import ever again,” he says. “It feels like the end of an era to me.”
“这些东西会继续出现，但是我真的不认为它们会继续作为主流。”他说，“对我来说，这就像是一个时代的终结。”
Nintendo is unbowed. Mr. Miyamoto was involved in developing the original Wii, and had a role in the Wii U as well. He rarely gives interviews, and was unavailable for comment for this article.
任天堂没有屈服。宫本茂参与了第一代Wii游戏机的开发，而且Wii U的开发也有他的功劳。他很少接受采访，也没有对本文发表评论。
But one recent evening in Redmond, Corey Olcsvary, a Nintendo product marketing specialist, was slashing his fingers across the touch screen on the GamePad, as the Wii U controller is called, casting “throwing stars” at a ninja gang that sprang from the corners of a giant TV screen. In another game, a group of players chased Mario — one of the most popular video game characters ever — around a maze shown on a TV while Mr. Olcsvary stared at a bird’s-eye view of the maze on his GamePad and tried to help Mario dodge his pursuers. The players shouted when they caught sight of Mario’s red overalls and cheered when they tackled him.
最近的一个晚上，在雷德蒙德，任天堂的产品营销专员科里·奥尔科斯法里(Corey Olcsvary)在Wii U的控制器GamePad的屏幕上剧烈划动，把“投掷星星”扔向一个忍者黑帮，他们会从巨型电视屏幕的角落里突然跳出来。在另一个游戏里，一组玩家在电视上的迷宫里追逐马里奥——史上最受欢迎的电视游戏角色之一，同时奥尔科斯法里以俯视视角盯着显示在他GamePad上的迷宫，尝试着帮助马里奥躲避它的追逐者。在发现了马里奥红色工装裤之后，玩家们发出大声的叫喊。而当他们最终抓到他时，又爆发出一阵欢呼。
Starting in December, people will also be able to use the GamePad as a remote control to set recordings and change channels on their cable and satellite TV services.
从今年12月份开始，人们将可以把GamePad当做他们有线电视和卫星电视服务的遥控器，来设置节目录制和改变电视频道。
Reggie Fils-Aime, president and chief operating officer of Nintendo’s United States unit, acknowledges that mobile games have changed the market. But he says wide recognition of the Nintendo and Wii brands, and of Mario, Zelda and other favorites available exclusively on Nintendo systems, will offer a strong tail wind for the Wii U.
任天堂美国分公司的总裁兼首席运营官雷吉·菲尔斯-艾梅(Reggie Fils-Aime)承认移动游戏已经改变了市场。但他说，对于任天堂和Wii品牌的广泛认可度，再加上马里奥、塞尔达和其他受欢迎角色仅在任天堂主机上提供的游戏中出现，将对Wii U产生巨大助推力。
“It comes down to providing consumers new, unique experiences they can’t get anywhere else, experiences that really make them say, ‘Wow, this is fantastic,’ ” Mr. Fils-Aime says.
“Wii U为消费者提供了全新的独特享受，他们在其他任何地方都体会不到。这种享受会让他们说，‘哇，这真神奇。’”菲尔斯-艾梅说。
Just as Apple has insisted on making both hardware and software, rather than licensing the Mac and iPhone operating systems to others, Nintendo does not create games for devices made by other companies, including the hundreds of millions of iPod Touches, smartphones and tablets out there. Industry executives say this represents a missed opportunity, allowing a new generation of game brands, like Angry Birds, to emerge unchallenged on mobile devices, much as Disney did in another realm years ago by allowing Pixar to own computer animation. (Disney later bought Pixar.)
正如苹果公司(Apple)坚持在硬件和软件两条路上齐头并进，而不把生产Mac和iPhone操作系统的许可权让给别人一样，任天堂并不为由其他公司制造的设备开发游戏，包括人们手中数以亿计的iPod Touch、智能手机和平板电脑。业内高管称，这让该公司错失了机会，使得《愤怒的小鸟》这类新一代游戏品牌毫无挑战地占领了移动设备市场。这就好比多年前，另一领域中的迪士尼曾坐视皮克斯(Pixar)占领了电脑动画市场。后来迪士尼收购了皮克斯。
“It’s the hardest strategic decision Nintendo has had to face in a long time,” says Robbie Bach, the former head of Microsoft’s Xbox business. “Would Mario on an iPhone be an interesting property? I think yes, it would.”
“这是任天堂在很长时间里不得不面对的一个最难做出的战略决策，”微软Xbox业务的前负责人罗比·巴赫(Robbie Bach)说，“马里奥会否成为iPhone上的一笔有意思的财富呢？我想他会的。”
Mr. Fils-Aime says that won’t happen, arguing that Nintendo’s approach is the best way for it to create unique games.  “That’s the business decision we’ve made,” he says, though he adds that the company may allow people to buy its games through mobile phones and have them delivered to their Nintendo devices.
可菲尔斯-艾梅说这是不可能的，他认为最适合任天堂的方法是创建独特的游戏。“这是我们已经作出的商业决定，”他说。但他还补充说，任天堂可能会允许人们通过手机购买其游戏，并把这些游戏转存到他们的任天堂设备中。
While it’s not unusual for sales of a particular game console to sag over time, the decline for Nintendo products in recent years has been especially brutal. The company lost 43.2 billion yen, or about $530 million, in the fiscal year ended March 31, after sharply reducing the price of a new portable game console, the Nintendo 3DS, in an effort to bolster sales. (Results were also hurt by a strong yen.) Its revenue was about a third of what it was three years earlier, when sales of the Wii and a portable device, the Nintendo DS, were booming.
随着时间的推移，一款特定的游戏机的销售会出现下滑，这很正常，但任天堂产品的销售量在近几年内下滑得尤其厉害。在截止到今年3月31日为止的财年中，任天堂损失了432亿日元（约5.3亿美元）。在此之前，为了提振便携式新游戏机任天堂3DS的销售量，公司大幅度降低了销售价格。日元走强也影响了公司业绩。任天堂的收入仅为三年前的约三分之一，那时Wii与便携式游戏机任天堂DS正处于热销时期。
“That was a magical moment,” says John Taylor, an analyst at Arcadia Investment, referring to Nintendo’s high point a few years ago. “The market has now moved on from that. I don’t think people view an integrated tablet within the Nintendo ecosystem as nearly as impactful.”
“那曾是个神奇的时刻，”阿卡迪亚投资公司(Arcadia Investment)的分析师约翰·泰勒(John Taylor)在谈到任天堂几年前的最佳时刻时说，“但现在的市场已经变得与那时不同了。我不认为把平板电脑集成在任天堂的生态系统中，会让人们觉得很有冲击力。”
Another worrisome trend for Nintendo is that the old way of pricing and selling games seems broken. In a rocky economy, it’s harder to persuade people to spend $50 to $60 — what titles typically cost for Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft systems — to buy a game. The Wii U itself starts at $300, versus $250 for the original Wii.
任天堂另一个令人担忧的趋势是，任天堂定价和销售游戏的老方法似乎已经运转不灵了。在现在困难重重的经济形势下，很难说服人们花费50到60美元去买一款游戏，而这个价格是任天堂、索尼和微软游戏的老价格。Wii U的价格为300美元，最初的Wii则是250美元。
MOBILE games have hurt sales of dedicated portable game devices from Nintendo and Sony, but analysts and game executives say they don’t think the threat stops there.
移动游戏已经损害了任天堂和索尼便携式游戏机的销售量，但分析人士和游戏业高管表示，他们认为其所面临的威胁不止于此。
Mitch Lasky, a veteran industry executive and now a venture capitalist at Benchmark Capital, says he has walked into his living room, which is brimming with all the major game consoles, a library of new titles and a 60-inch plasma TV, only to find his children crowded around an iPhone playing Temple Run, an app-powered game available free.
游戏业前高管、基准投资(Benchmark Capital) 的风险投资人米奇·拉斯基(Mitch Lasky)说，他的房间里拥有所有主流游戏机，一屋子的新游戏和一台60英寸的等离子电视，却发现他的孩子们凑在一部iPhone周围玩《逃离神庙》(Temple Run)，这是一款安装在手机上的免费游戏程序。