Zack Giffin is an extreme, or “free,” skier and tiny-house booster, having made his home for the last three years in a 112-square-foot mobile “ski chalet.” This year, Mr. Giffin, 34, is a host of a new series, “Tiny House Nation,” beginning Wednesday on FYI, an A & E Networks channel that used to be known as Bio. When we caught up with him by phone last week, he was on the road for the show, which chronicles those who live the tiny-house life. The chalet, he said, was sitting on a trailer “in a lovely field in Lummi Island, Washington State, on my parents’ property, which is where it lives when we are not around.” (He shares it with his girlfriend, Molly Baker, 30, who is also a skier and was away working for a ski sponsor in Austria.) The couple have used their tiny house as an assist to their lifestyle, to help them get close to the mountains, mostly in the Northwest. (This interview has been condensed and edited.)
扎克·吉芬(Zack Giffin)是一个极端的——或说“自由的”——滑雪爱好者和袖珍小屋推崇者。过去三年里，他在一座112平方英尺（约合10平方米）的移动“滑雪小屋”里安了家。今年，34岁的吉芬成了新推出的系列节目“袖珍小屋国度”(Tiny House Nation)的主持人。该节目于周三开始在A+E电视网(A & E Networks)的生活方式频道FYI——即原来的人物传记频道(Bio)——播出，节目的关注对象是居住在小屋子里的人。上个星期，我们打电话联系他时，他正在录制节目的路上。他说，他的滑雪小屋建在了拖车上，目前停靠在“华盛顿州鹿米岛(Lummi Island)上一个美丽的地方，那是我父母的一处房产，我们不在的时候，它就停在那儿。”（那座小屋是他和女友、30岁的莫莉·贝克[Molly Baker]共同居住的地方。贝克也是一名滑雪爱好者，目前正在奥地利为一家滑雪赞助商工作）这对情侣将他们的小屋作为坚持现有生活方式的辅助设施，以便能亲近雪山。大多数雪山都位于西北部（以下访谈内容有所删减）。
Q. Is your tiny house your only abode?
问：这座小屋是你们唯一的住处吗？
A. Yes, because of our jobs and our schedules, the tiny house is perfect. We’re not locked into the rent or the mortgage scenario.
答：对，因为工作和时间安排上的原因，住在小屋里最完美了。我们不需要为租金或房贷困扰。
How do you find places to park it?
问：你们怎么找停车的地方？
Because it’s so self-contained and not an eyesore, the owner of Chair 9, a bar in Glacier, Wash., has given me an open invitation to park in his parking lot. Or I park it in the parking lot of the ski area we’re in. Here is the thing about the tiny house: It skirts the stigma of the traveler because it’s adorable. It’s made of high-quality materials. It’s built with a whole lot of love, and that’s very apparent.
答：因为它的设施已经很齐备了，而且不碍眼。Chair 9（华盛顿州Glacier的一家酒吧）的老板已经公开邀请我把房车停在他的停车场。我也可以把房车停在滑雪场的停车场里。这座小屋的情况是这样的：它不会让住在里面的人蒙羞，因为它很漂亮。它是由高品质的材料建造的，里面倾注了我的全部爱心，这是非常明显的。
What have you learned from living this way?
问：你从这种生活方式中学到了什么？
It has maximized what I’m able to do with the young years of my life. I’ve broken down into four categories what leads people into getting involved in tiny houses. One is they’re looking to live this young, adventurous lifestyle and avoid getting trapped in the machine. The next category is minimalism, the idea that you have all this clutter in your life but is it better? People have come to the conclusion that to downsize their living environment frees up their time and allows them to pursue their passion and spend more time with their family. I would say that’s the main area the show tries to focus on. The next would be economics. The tiny house becomes a viable solution for those who want to retire but don’t want to live in a trailer home built in a factory, their best option for living happily because their 401(k) isn’t coming through. The fourth would be environmental. It is this radically significant thing you can do that has real environmental benefits. And you only have to do it once. You don’t have to wake up every morning wondering whether you’re going to drive to work or take the bus.
答：这样的生活可以让我趁年轻的时候尽可能多做些自己能做的事。我总结了一下，凡是住小屋的人，他们这么做的原因有四种。一种是，他们在寻找一种朝气蓬勃、冒险刺激的生活方式，不想被机械的日子所束缚。第二种是极简主义。家里乱七八糟地堆放那么多东西，这种生活真的更好吗？人们已经意识到，缩小居住环境能帮他们节省时间，更自由地追求梦想，腾出更多时间陪伴家人。我得说，这也是我们的节目关注的重点。第三是经济省钱。如果一个人想要退休，但又不想住在工厂建造出来的房车里，那么住在小屋就是一个可行的解决方案，这是他们享受幸福生活的最好选择，因为401(k)计划提供的养老金很有限。第四是环保。这是你所能做的、真正有利于环保的大事。而且这件事情你只需要做一次。你每天早上醒来后，就不用担心今天是该开车去上班，还是该坐公交车上班了。
Let’s get really specific about what’s in your house. What kind of toilet, for example? Is it a composting toilet?
问：我们来具体谈谈你家里有哪些设施吧。比如说，你家的厕所是哪种类型？是堆肥厕所吗？
I opted not to build one. With strategic parking and partnerships, not everyone should have to have their own toilet. There is room to re-evaluate the mode of what it is a house needs to be. There are communities that are starting to allow tiny houses to get together, and it’s like the marina. The toilet and the shower are shared. For the shower, I have a backup. I have a wood stove, and in the wintertime you take snow and melt it on the stove. I have a cistern that is gravity fed and it’s an outdoor shower. It’s totally self-invented. In all honesty, the water pressure is a little bit less than it could be so I am planning when I get a little time to connect to a water pump. The only challenge is getting from the front door to the shower.
答：我没有造厕所。只要巧妙地选择停车的地方，加上与人合作，并不是每个人都需要自己的厕所。我们可以重新审视一下，一间屋子应该建成什么样。有些社区已经开始允许小屋集体进驻了，这就跟停靠小船的码头一样。厕所和淋浴喷头是公用的。至于淋浴，我有一个备用方案。我有一个燃柴火炉，冬天时可以把雪收集起来，放在炉子里融化。我有个贮水箱，它采用重力蓄水，可以作为户外淋浴间。这完全是我自己发明的。老实说，它现在的水压比它本应达到的压力小了一点点，所以我打算等有时间了就去接个水泵。唯一麻烦的地方是，从前门走到淋浴间不太方便。
What does a house like this cost?
问：像这种小屋的建造成本是多少？
I spent almost $25,000 on my house, not including my labor. It took me seven weeks full time to build it. The biggest expenses were the trailer and the appliances (refrigerator, water heater, inverter-converter, generator and the wood stove parts). The only labor I paid for was the painters. I think I spent around $7,000 on the lumber, doors and windows. I could have saved a lot of money if I had spent time finding used appliances, but I was under serious time restrictions.
答：我在自己这座房子上花了将近2.5万美元（约合人民币15万元），我自己的劳力成本没有算进去。我把整整七个星期的时间全部花在了这上面。开支最大的地方是买拖车和家用电器（冰箱、热水器、变压器-转换器、发电机和燃柴火炉的零配件）。请油漆工花了一笔钱，这是我花出去的唯一一笔劳务费。我估计自己在木材、门窗上花了7000美元（约合人民币4万元）左右。要是我买二手家电，就可以省一大笔钱，但是我当时的时间很紧。