The simple funeral was fitting for a man who was the last surviving sibling of China’s final emperor, but who led a commoner’s life.
中国末代皇帝兄弟姐妹中最后的一位在世者也已过世。他生前过着平民的生活，简朴的葬礼很适合他。
Friends and relatives of Jin Youzhi, a younger half-brother of Henry Pu Yi, who abdicated as emperor in 1912, gathered on Thursday at the Babaoshan Revolutionary Cemetery in Beijing for a ceremony where more than 100 visitors paid their respects to a figure widely regarded as a final link to the Qing Dynasty. Mr. Jin died last week at the age of 96.
金友之是1912年退位的末代皇帝溥仪同父异母的弟弟。本周四，他的亲友聚集在北京八宝山革命公墓，举行道别仪式，有100多人前往瞻仰。金友之上周去世，享年96岁，他被广泛视为连接清朝的最后一条纽带。
In the morning, guests lined up outside Babaoshan’s East Hall for a final viewing of Mr. Jin’s body, before family members walked in a ceremonial procession carrying flowers. Among them were Mr. Jin’s children, including his three sons and at least one of his two daughters. Mr. Jin’s life followed a markedly different course from that of Pu Yi, who was forced to give up his throne in a revolution that ended imperial rule in China but who in 1934 was installed as emperor of Japan-controlled Manchukuo. After the Communist victory in 1949, Pu Yi was imprisoned for a decade as a war criminal, and later worked as a gardener. He died in 1967.
周四早上，宾客在八宝山东大厅外面一字排开，对金友之遗体进行最后瞻仰，然后家属在仪式中捧着鲜花，走进大厅。其中有金友之的三个儿子，两个女儿中至少有一个也来了。金友之一生的轨迹与溥仪大相径庭。一场革命结束了中国的皇权统治后，溥仪被迫放弃皇位，但又在1934年成为日本控制的满洲国的傀儡皇帝。1949年共产党胜利之后，溥仪作为战犯被监禁了十年，后来当过园丁，于1967年过世。
By contrast, Mr. Jin, who was born six years after his brother’s abdication, kept his distance from politics and was a teacher for more than 40 years. In his retirement, he researched his family’s history and practiced calligraphy.
而金友之在溥仪退位六年之后出生，一直与政治保持距离，是一名有40多年教龄的教师。退休之后，他把时间花在研究自己的家族史和练习书法上。
At a gathering at Mr. Jin’s courtyard home this week, his sons described their father’s simple tastes, warmth and passion for teaching. They recalled how he kept in close touch with many of his former students.
本周在金友之家四合院举行的一个聚会上，儿子们介绍了金友之简约的品味，温和的性情，以及对教书育人的热爱。他们回忆了金友之和他教过的很多学生保持密切联系的状况。
“He was very willing to serve the people,” said Jin Yulan, the youngest son. “He lived a difficult life. But he put all his efforts into educating the people.”
“他非常乐于为人民服务。”他最小的儿子金毓岚说。“他过着简朴的生活，把全部精力都奉献给了教书育人的事业。”
Mr. Jin’s heritage was clear on the sign posted outside of the East Hall. It read, using his Manchu name: “Mr. Aisin Gioro – Pu Ren, for the ages.” Mr. Jin had later adopted a Chinese name. Jin, like Aisin, means “gold.”
从东大厅外的指示牌上，可以明显看出金友之的家世。上面写着他的满族名字：爱新觉罗·溥任。金友之后来取了一个汉族姓氏“金”，和爱新觉罗一样，意思都是“黄金”。
Jia Huaying, a historian who attended the funeral, said it signaled a farewell to China’s imperial past.
来到这里的历史学家贾英华说，金友之的葬礼是对中国皇朝历史的告别。