The pink mustache is coming to China. And it will receive a warm welcome — not a snub — from its new hosts.
那两撇粉红色的八字胡要来中国了，并且将受到新主人的热烈欢迎，而非冷落。
Lyft, the San Francisco-based ride-hailing start-up that has its drivers affix a striking pink mustache logo to their cars, announced a partnership with Didi Kuaidi, China’s pre-eminent ride-hailing company, that will allow the American company to operate in China for the first time. The cross-border deal will also let Didi Kuaidi operate in the United States.
总部位于旧金山的叫车服务初创公司Lyft以要求司机在车上粘贴醒目的粉红色胡子闻名。公司宣布，已与中国的著名叫车公司滴滴快的建立合作关系。通过这项跨国合作，这家美国公司将得以首次在中国开展业务，滴滴快的也将能够进入美国市场。
The partnership between the two companies is perhaps the clearest sign yet of the race to conquer different parts of the world in the global ride-hailing industry. The handful of major companies in the business of providing car rides have raised giant sums of money — some into the billions of dollars — and are using the money to open in new markets and release new product offerings. Also on Wednesday, BlaBlaCar, a European ride-hailing start-up, said it had raised $200 million.
这两家公司的合作或许是全球叫车服务行业为占领不同市场展开竞争的最明显的标志。乘车服务供应行业的几家大公司筹集到了巨额资金——有些企业的融资规模高达数十亿美元——并正在用这些钱开辟新市场，发布新产品优惠。也是在周三，欧洲叫车软件初创公司BlaBlaCar宣布融资2亿美元。
Nearly all of these companies have their eye on Uber, the huge on-demand ride company that has raised more than $7 billion in venture capital and is valued at more than $50 billion. Over the last five years, Uber has exploded in growth to more than 300 cities across 60 countries.
这些公司几乎都盯着优步(Uber)。作为一家大型叫车服务公司，优步筹集到了70亿美元的风险投资，目前的估值超过500亿美元。过去五年里，优步呈爆发式增长态势，已进入60个国家的300多座城市。
China, in particular, has recently been a hotbed of contention and competition for ride-hailing start-ups. Uber has earmarked more than $1 billion for its aggressive push into Asia — and particularly China — and is spending millions in subsidies to attract drivers and riders to its service with lucrative promotions. Still, Uber’s presence in China is dwarfed by that of Didi Kuaidi, which controls 80 percent of the overall ride-hailing market in China.
尤其是在中国，叫车服务初创公司的激烈厮杀和竞争近期频繁上演。优步拨出1亿多美元用于大举开拓亚洲，特别是中国市场。同时，公司还投入大把补贴费用，用优惠的促销活动吸引司机和乘客使用自己的服务。但与控制了中国叫车服务市场80%的滴滴快的相比，优步在中国的影响力依然相形见绌。
Lyft’s partnership with Didi Kuaidi offers a somewhat novel approach to international expansion. Didi Kuaidi, which comprises China’s two largest ride-hailing start-ups, will let Lyft users from the United States find rides in China using the Lyft app. Didi Kuaidi will fulfill those ride requests using its drivers, while Lyft users will not have to leave the app to download or sign up for any new services.
Lyft与滴滴快的的合作，为国际扩张提供了一种比较新颖的模式。滴滴快的由中国最大的两家叫车服务初创公司合并组成，它将允许来自美国的Lyft用户使用Lyft应用在中国叫车。滴滴快的将用自己的司机来满足这些乘车请求，Lyft用户也不用离开这一应用去下载或注册任何新服务。
Didi Kuaidi will have much the same agreement with Lyft for its users. Chinese users entering the United States can find a ride using the Didi Kuaidi app, with those rides being fulfilled by Lyft.
对于自己的用户，滴滴快的也与Lyft达成了大致相同的协议。入境美国的中国用户可以用滴滴快的应用叫车，由Lyft提供乘车服务。
“For Lyft, this the best possible way for the U.S. population to enter into China and find a ride,” John Zimmer, co-founder and president of Lyft, said in an interview. “If I’m an American traveling to China, I can land in Beijing, step off the plane and have the best coverage possible to find a ride.”
“对Lyft来说，这是美国人去中国后的最佳叫车方式，”Lyft联合创始人、总裁约翰·齐默尔(John Zimmer)在接受采访时说。“如果我是去往中国的美国人，我能在着陆北京之后，一下飞机就能享受到最佳的叫车服务覆盖。”
For Lyft, a partnership with a local operator like Didi Kuaidi could also help it sidestep some difficulties that an American company entering a foreign market may encounter.
对Lyft而言，与滴滴快的这样的本地商家合作，或许也有助于避开美国公司在进入海外市场时可能会遇到的一些困难。
“When we look at a market like China, there are various complexities, including local cultural differences,” Mr. Zimmer said. “Didi Kuaidi is the only player that has coverage in all cities.”
“观察像中国这样的市场，我们会看到各种各样的复杂情况，包括当地的文化差异，”齐默尔说。“滴滴快的是唯一一个覆盖所有城市的市场主体。”
Uber has faced significant pushback from some regional governmental bodies in Europe and elsewhere. In China, it has faced off against the Ministry of Transport, which has tightened its restrictions on ride-hailing apps operating inside the country. In May, an Uber office in Southern China was raided by authorities as part of a broader crackdown on ride-hailing apps.
在欧洲等地，优步面临地区性政府机构的大力抵制。在中国，优步与交通运输部存在冲突，后者在加紧对在本国境内运营的叫车应用的限制。今年5月，中国当局大面积打击叫车应用，优步在华南地区的一处办公室遭遇突击搜查。
Mr. Zimmer would not discuss the financial terms of the agreement, nor did he say whether Lyft would pay Didi Kuaidi for any rides fulfilled by the latter company.
齐默尔不愿讨论协议的财务条款，也未表明Lyft会不会为滴滴快的提供的乘车服务支付款项。
Both companies certainly have financial skin in the game. Lyft said Didi Kuaidi had invested $100 million in it in a round of financing completed in March, which also saw participation from investors such as Carl C. Icahn, the hedge fund manager, as well as Rakuten, Alibaba and Tencent. That round valued Lyft at $2.5 billion. The company operates in more than 60 cities in the United States and has long expressed caution about moving outside the country.
两家公司肯定都有经济利益牵涉其中。Lyft称，在3月完成的一轮融资中，滴滴快的投入了1亿美元。对冲基金经理卡尔·C·伊坎(Carl C. Icahn)、乐天株式会社(Rakuten)、阿里巴巴和腾讯等投资者也参与其中。在这轮融资中，Lyft估值25亿美元。Lyft的业务覆盖了美国60多座城市，但长期以来一直对进军国外市场持谨慎态度。
Last week, Didi Kuaidi said it had raised $3 billion in a new round of financing, led by investors including the China Investment Corporation, the Capital International Private Equity Fund and Ping An Ventures.
上周，滴滴快的称，通过新一轮融资筹集了30亿美元，主要的投资方包括中国投资有限责任公司、资本国际私募基金(Capital International Private Equity Fund)和平安创新投资基金。
When it announced the new financing, Didi Kuaidi said its service aided 99 percent of taxi rides hailed by mobile phones in China every day, adding up to three million rides a day, and 80 percent of private car rides, or another three million rides in those cars.
宣布获得新一轮融资时，滴滴快的称，中国每天用手机发出的出租车和私家车乘车需求中，分别有99%和80%是在自家服务的帮助下实现的，各相当于每天300万次乘车服务。
The partnership comes with trade-offs. Lyft passengers will not see any Lyft branding on the Didi Kuaidi cars in China — including its famous pink mustache — nor will the Didi Kuaidi passengers see any Didi Kuaidi branding inside of Lyft cars in the United States. Since the deal allows each company an easier passage into the other’s country, that may lead to a competitive threat in the future.
达成合作关系时，双方进行了权衡。在中国，Lyft乘客不会在滴滴快的司机的车里看到Lyft的任何品牌元素，包括赫赫有名的粉红色胡子。在美国，滴滴快的乘客同样也不会在Lyft的车里看到任何和滴滴快的有关的品牌标识。因为此次协议会让双方更容易进入对方的国家，这可能会在将来引起竞争威胁。
In the last year, however, intensified global competition has created many strange bedfellows of companies that were once fierce competitors. Didi Kuaidi was born when the ride-hailing services Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache, both of which were spending enormous sums of money trying to outmaneuver the other, merged. Tencent, Alibaba and Rakuten, all of which are Lyft investors, regularly compete in the Asian e-commerce and Internet industries.
然而去年，全球竞争加剧，促使很多一度是劲敌的公司联手。滴滴快的本身的诞生，是源于曾大把撒钱试图打败对方的嘀嘀打车和快的打车合并。腾讯、阿里巴巴和乐天同是Lyft的投资者，但在亚洲的电子商务和互联网行业，它们常常互为竞争对手。
It is not clear how many Americans entering China use ride-sharing services, and it is similarly unclear how many Chinese wish to use American ride-sharing apps.
尚不清楚会有多少来华的美国人会使用拼车服务，同样也不清楚有多少中国人希望使用美国的拼车应用。
Lyft and Didi Kuaidi believe that the market opportunity is only growing. Lyft pointed to the more than 5.6 million Americans who visited China in 2014, citing a report from the National Travel and Tourism Office, a part of the United States Department of Commerce. More than 2.1 million Chinese visited the United States last year, another report said.
Lyft和滴滴快的认为，市场机会只增不减。Lyft依据美国商务部下属的旅行与旅游办公室(National Travel and Tourism Office)的一份报告指出，2014年有560多万美国人去往中国。而另一份报告称，去年赴美的中国人达210多万。