HONG KONG — Didi Chuxing, a company in China that last year bested Uber in that huge ride-sharing market, is in negotiations to get SoftBank of Japan to take part in a multibillion-dollar investment round, according to people familiar with the talks.
香港——据熟悉情况的人士称，中国公司滴滴出行正在进行谈判，希望让日本的软银(SoftBank)参加一轮数十亿美元的投资。去年，它在中国庞大的网约车市场上打败了优步(Uber)。
Should a deal be reached, it could be the latest big bet that SoftBank’s eccentric leader, Masayoshi Son, has placed on a significant technology company. Mr. Son has been raising $100 billion for what he calls the SoftBank Vision Fund and has already pledged to invest $50 billion and create 50,000 jobs in the United States. While it is unclear whether that fund is involved in the talks over Didi Chuxing, analysts say it could be further used to make sizable investments in big, global tech companies.
如果达成协议，这可能是软银古怪的掌舵人孙正义(Masayoshi Son)最新一次押宝重要的科技企业。孙正义一直在努力为他的软银愿景基金(SoftBank Vision Fund)筹集1000亿美元（约合7000亿元人民币）资金，并已承诺在美国投资500亿美元，创造5万个就业岗位。尽管尚不清楚围绕滴滴出行的谈判是否涉及该基金，但分析人士称，它可能会被进一步用来大规模投资大型跨国科技企业。
A deal could also help Didi Chuxing, which counts Apple among its powerful backers, contend with a rash of difficulties. Since the company bought Uber’s business in China in the summer to form a business valued at $35 billion, it has been mired in regulatory pressures.
与软银达成协议也有助于以苹果(Apple)等为重要支持者的滴滴出行应对一连串的困难。自去年夏天收购优步在中国的业务、变成了一家估值350亿美元的企业后，该公司面临诸多监管压力。
Still, executives at the company have said that they harbor international ambitions, and it is pushing aggressively to catch up in the development of driverless car technologies. A deal with SoftBank is also intended to increase Didi Chuxing’s value, said one of the people familiar with the talks.
但该公司的高管仍表示他们有国际化的雄心，并称公司正在大力推进，以便参与到无人驾驶技术的发展中。其中一名熟悉谈判情况的人士称，与软银达成协议也是为了提高滴滴出行的估值。
It is unclear whether Didi Chuxing will reach a deal with SoftBank and at what amount or whether it will involve other investors. The people familiar with the talks spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the discussions. Bloomberg ment">earlier reported the talks on Tuesday.
尚不清楚滴滴出行是否将与软银达成协议，达成的金额是多少，以及是否会涉及其他投资者。熟悉谈判情况的人士要求不具名，因为他们无权公开谈论谈判情况。彭博社(Bloomberg)早前于周二报道了谈判一事。
The fund-raising efforts by Didi Chuxing show how foreign investors currently value dominance in China, an internet market largely closed to foreign competition that has the largest smartphone-using populace in the world. A new multibillion-dollar round would also put Didi roughly on par with the total funds raised by Uber. It has also raised money at home from the two biggest internet companies in China: Alibaba, an e-commerce giant, and Tencent, a games and social media conglomerate.
滴滴出行的融资行动表明了外国投资者现在对在中国占主导地位的重视。作为一个基本不对外开放的互联网市场，中国的智能手机用户规模是全球最大的。数十亿美元的新一轮融资可能还会让滴滴在总融资额上与优步不相上下。该公司已从中国国内两个最大的互联网公司那里拿到了融资，它们分别是电商巨头阿里巴巴和游戏与社交媒体集团腾讯。
Didi Chuxing’s longer-term expansion is likely to be closely watched as a touchstone of the prospects of China’s homegrown internet champions. The company has a number of high-profile investors, both Chinese and foreign, and whether it develops important technology for autonomous cars or is able to expand into other markets will become a new barometer for the abilities of companies that have grown large in China’s relatively isolated market.
滴滴出行的长期扩张可能会受到密切关注，当作中国本土互联网王牌企业前景的试金石。该公司有大量引人注目的投资者，既有中国的，也有外国的。它是否能否开发出重要的自动驾驶汽车技术或是否能够进入其他市场，将成为新的晴雨表，用来考量那些在中国相对孤立的市场里发展壮大起来的公司的能力。
Along with receiving a bigger valuation, analysts said Didi would most likely use the money to invest in next-generation technology, like autonomous vehicles, and potentially also on international expansion, though the company has so far done little outside its domestic market.
分析人士称，除获得更高的估值外，滴滴极有可能把这笔钱用在投资下一代技术，如自动驾驶车辆，可能还有国际扩张，尽管迄今为止，该公司在国外市场几乎没有什么动作。
Didi has been content to invest in and work with a band of similar ride-hailing companies in India, Southeast Asia and America. The partners include Uber’s main rival in the United States, Lyft. It is uncertain whether Didi would consider introducing its own service to challenge those partners as part of an international push, look to other markets in developing countries or continue to invest in promising companies.
滴滴愿意投资并与印度、东南亚和美国的一批类似的叫车服务企业合作。其合作伙伴包括优步在美国的主要竞争对手Lyft。尚不确定滴滴会不会考虑引入自己的服务以挑战那些合作伙伴作为国际扩张的一部分、进入其他发展中国家市场或继续投资前景看好的公司。
Even so, the company has put money into recruiting foreign talent. In March, Didi said it was creating a research and development lab in Silicon Valley that is focused on developing artificial-intelligence technologies to help with security and driverless cars. It also said that it would use A.I. to aid it in the data analytics required to improve transportation in China’s many traffic-snarled cities. As a part of the effort, the company poached Charlie Miller, a well-known computer scientist who once worked for Uber.
即便如此，该公司已经在出资招募外国人才了。3月，滴滴称正在硅谷创建一个研发实验室。该实验室的重点是开发人工智能技术，以帮助改善安全和无人驾驶汽车技术。该公司还表示将利用人工智能协助其进行数据分析。在中国很多交通拥堵的城市，要改善交通状况，必须进行数据分析。作为这项行动的一部分，滴滴挖来了曾任职于优步的著名计算机科学家查理·米勒(Charlie Miller)。
Yet even as it speeds ahead with technology, Didi has faced a more prosaic challenge at home. New rules in China that have required drivers in some of the country’s biggest cities to have registration documents have pinched the company’s ability to respond to customer demand.
但即便是在加速发展技术时，滴滴在国内仍面临着一个更没有新意的挑战。中国新出台的规定要求部分大城市的司机必须拥有当地户口，导致该公司响应消费者需求的能力受损。
Regulations have “had a direct impact on the supply of cars,” said Xue Yu, a senior analyst at IDC, a market research firm.
市场研究公司IDC的高级分析师薛宇表示，相关规定“直接影响车辆的供给”。
“For customers, it will be a lot more difficult to order a car than before the new regulations were announced,” Mr. Xue said. “This has largely raised the operation costs for Didi.”
“从消费者的角度来看，现在打车明显是比网约车新政出来前要难很多，”薛宇说。“这个提高了滴滴很大的运营成本。”