HONG KONG — If you can’t beat them, join them.
香港——打不赢，就入伙。
That seems to be the thinking behind a Saturday announcement that China’s two largest taxi-hailing mobile applications, Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache, will complete a “strategic merger.”
周六，中国规模最大的两家打车移动应用——滴滴打车和快的打车——宣布将完成“战略合并”。这两家公司似乎就是这么想的。
The unlikely tie-up comes after a year of cash-fueled competition between the two companies. With the gaming giant Tencent backing Didi Dache and the e-commerce powerhouse Alibaba supporting Kuaidi Dache, the two start-ups spent hundreds of millions on promotions in what was widely seen as a proxy war between China’s two largest Internet companies.
它们的合并相当出人意料。此前，这两家公司花费大把现金开展了为期一年的竞争。游戏巨头腾讯支持滴滴打车，电子商务巨头阿里巴巴则支持快的打车，这两家创业企业都在推广方面花了数亿元。人们广泛认为，这是中国规模最大的两家互联网公司之间的一场间接战争。
Drawing on the massive support from Tencent and Alibaba, each app offered rebates to customers who used it, as well as large daily tips to drivers. The idea was that through the taxi apps, Tencent and Alibaba could lure users to other smartphone services.
利用腾讯和阿里巴巴的大力支持，这两个应用都会给用户提供折扣，每天还会给司机提供大量奖励。这背后的思路是，腾讯和阿里巴巴可以通过打车应用，诱使用户使用其他智能手机服务。
Kuaidi is connected to Alibaba’s mobile payment system, while Didi works through Tencent’s enormously popular messaging application WeChat.
快的与阿里巴巴的移动支付系统相连，滴滴借助的则是腾讯颇受欢迎的消息应用微信。
The merger, which is expected to be worth about $6 billion, was likely driven in part by a recognition from each side that the huge expenditures had failed to win the market. Despite investment and spending well over $1 billion in total, Didi and Kuaidi are at a stalemate, with each controlling about half of the market for taxi-hailing applications.
据估计，此次合并的价值约为60亿美元（约合374亿元人民币），推动此次合并的部分原因很可能是双方都意识到，巨额的支出未能帮它们赢得市场。尽管总投资和支出早已远远超过10亿美元，滴滴和快的仍然处于僵持状态，各控制着大约一半的打车软件市场。
In an unconventional move that indicated the tie-up might be more about eliminating competition than cooperating, the companies said that they would operate independently and retain their separate brands.
两家公司作出了一个不同寻常的举动，该举动说明，此次合并更多或许是为了消除竞争，而非开展合作。它们表示将分别独立运营，并保留各自的品牌。
Though Tencent and Alibaba dominate different sectors, competition between the two has grown heated over the past two years, as both have moved beyond their core competencies to woo China’s more than 600 million smartphone users to their services.
虽然腾讯和阿里巴巴各自掌控着不同的领域，但这两家公司的竞争在过去两年中越来越激烈，它们都迈出了自己拥有核心竞争力的领域，吸引中国逾六亿智能手机用户使用它们的服务。
Still, there is precedent for the two cooperating. Both companies are shareholders in an online insurance operation run in cooperation with Ping An Insurance.
但这两家公司有过合作的先例。两家公司作为股东与平安保险合作组建了一家网络保险公司。
In the statement Saturday, Didi and Kuaidi said that they would release more information after the Chinese New Year holiday, which begins next week.
滴滴和快的周六发表声明称，它们将在春节假期结束后公布更多信息，春节假期将于下周开始。
Also likely after Chinese New Year, according to analysts, could be scrutiny of the deal by Chinese regulators. China’s antimonopoly regulator has mostly left alone the domestic players in the country’s booming Internet industry, many of which have dominant market share positions.
分析人士透露，春节过后，中国监管机构可能也会对此次交易进行审查。中国的反垄断监管机构通常会对蓬勃发展的互联网行业中的中国企业网开一面，其中很多公司在市场中占据支配地位。
The merger will create a company with a combined market share well above 90 percent. That could also be bad news for Uber, the U.S. ride-sharing app, which cooperates with the Chinese search giant Baidu in the country.
合并后的公司将占据共计超过90%的市场份额。这对于美国打车软件Uber来说可能是个坏消息，该公司与中国搜索巨头百度合作，共同开拓中国市场。