BEIJING — Didi Dache, a Chinese taxi-hailing app, has raised more than $700 million from investors. The move comes even as the company has yet to be profitable and also comes at a time of scrutiny for other ride-sharing providers.
北京——中国打车软件滴滴打车从投资者处融得了逾7亿美元。尽管其还未开始盈利，且正值其他拼车软件受到审查之时，该公司仍成功融资。
Didi, which is backed by Tencent Holdings, the operator of China’s biggest social network, is one of the two dominant apps of its kind in the country. After the latest round of fund-raising, announced Tuesday, Didi is valued at billions of dollars, although Cheng Wei, the company’s chief executive and founder, would not provide an exact number. But he did say that he and the rest of the management team maintained a controlling stake.
由中国最大的社交媒体运营商腾讯控股有限公司支持的滴滴是该国两个领军的同类软件之一。在周二宣布的最近一轮融资后，滴滴的估值达到了数十亿美元，但该公司的首席执行官及创始人程维不愿给出具体数字。但是他说，他及公司的管理团队仍有控股权。
Temasek, the Singapore state investment company, led the fund-raising, along with the Russian investment firm DST Global and Tencent, for the single-largest private investment in China’s mobile Internet sector, Didi said in a news release.
滴滴在一份新闻稿中说，新加坡国有投资公司淡马锡(Temasek)连同俄罗斯投资公司DST及腾讯主导了是次融资，其是中国移动互联网领域最大的一笔单笔融资。
The company was founded in June 2012 by Mr. Cheng, who had worked for Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, for seven years. In April 2013, Didi secured an investment of $15 million from Tencent, which has also been supporting the taxi-hailing service with its popular messaging app WeChat.
该公司2012年6月由程维创建，程维曾在中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴工作七年。2013年4月，滴滴从腾讯取得了1500万美元的投资。腾讯也利用其大受欢迎的聊天软件微信对滴滴的打车服务予以支持。
Didi users can pay cab fees through a payment service embedded into WeChat. In January, Didi raised $100 million from Tencent and venture capital firms.
滴滴用户可以通过一个嵌入微信的支付服务平台支付打车费。1月，滴滴从腾讯及风投公司处筹得了1亿美元。
Mr. Cheng, 31, said in an interview on Wednesday that Didi Dache — whose name loosely translates to Honk Honk, Catch a Cab — intends to become China’s largest mobile booking platform for vehicle trips. The company plans to channel the newly raised money into expanding its existing services and developing new products.
31岁的程维在周三的一个采访中说，滴滴打车志在成为中国最大的移动交通出行平台。该公司计划将新近筹得的资金用于扩张已有服务及开发新产品。
The number of Didi’s daily taxi-booking orders, which have risen as high as 5.2 million for a single day, is now 10 times that of Uber, Mr. Cheng said. Orders for its private-car service, Didi Black, introduced in August, would outnumber those of Uber Black by the end of next year, he predicted.
程维说，滴滴的日订单量目前是Uber的十倍，单日订单数最高曾达520万。他预测，滴滴于今年8月启动的专车服务滴滴专车的订单数将于明年超过Uber的专车服务Uber Black。
The two services are different: Uber’s premium service includes limousines, while Didi’s is for any kind of private car (the user can choose) and is in contrast with Didi’s original service, which was for cabs only. Didi says it operates in more than 300 cities across China and has more than 100 million registered users and a million subscribing taxi drivers.
这两种服务有所不同：Uber的高端服务启用豪华轿车，而滴滴专车包括各种类型的私家车（乘客可以自行选择），且滴滴专车与滴滴最早的、仅针对出租车的服务是不同的。滴滴称其在中国逾300个城市运营，拥有1亿乘客用户和100万出租车司机用户。
“What we’re hoping is that people use Didi whenever they need transportation, on buses, taxis, limos or private cars,” Mr. Cheng said. He has laid out an ambitious blueprint of integrating Didi’s service with the public transportation system and venturing into last-mile logistics, like package delivery.
“我们希望的事情是只要出行，就一定要用滴滴，也许是公交车，也许是出租车，也许是专车，也许自驾，”程维说。他构思了一幅雄心勃勃的蓝图——将滴滴覆盖到公共交通系统及同城物流，比如运送包裹。
“We hope we can utilize the Internet to improve the efficiency of transportation,” Mr. Cheng said.
“我们希望用互联网提高出行效率，”程维说。
He also wants to provide a commuting service for government officials, who are mostly no longer allowed limos under President Xi Jinping’s frugality campaign. Mr. Cheng said there was no third-party provider that catered to officials who are no longer chauffeured. Government agencies “need the service to improve efficiency and cut costs,” he said.
他也想为政府官员提供出行服务。在中国国家主席习近平的廉洁运动大潮下，政府官员大多不再享有豪车。程维说，目前尚无第三方机构能为不再配车配司机的官员提供服务。政府机关“需要这个服务，比原来效率更高、节约商务成本”，他说。
Didi’s main competitor is Kuaidi Dache, an app backed by Alibaba, sometimes considered Tencent’s archrival. The two ride-hailing apps have been competing by giving generous cash-back offers to passengers and drivers in what the Chinese media call a “cash-burning war.” Both Alibaba and Tencent have been splurging on the apps to help them carve out larger market shares.
滴滴的主要竞争对手是由阿里巴巴支持的快的打车。阿里巴巴有时被认为是腾讯的劲敌。这两个叫车软件一直通过大手笔地给予乘客和司机现金补贴来互相竞争，这被中国媒体称为“烧钱大战”。阿里巴巴和腾讯也都斥重金帮扶这两个软件开拓更大的市场份额。
Uber, the San Francisco-based ride service that has gone global, said this month that it had raised an additional $1.2 billion to invest in new markets, especially in the Asia-Pacific region.
设立于旧金山、已进军全球市场的叫车服务Uber本月表示，其已筹得新一笔12亿美元的融资以投资新市场，特别是于亚太区域。
But Uber is under scrutiny for safety issues after allegations that a woman in New Delhi, India, was raped last week by one of its drivers. Uber as a company could face civil or criminal charges.
但在一位印度新德里女性上周被一名Uber司机强奸的指控发生后，Uber正因安全问题受到审查。Uber公司可能面临民事或刑事指控。
Didi Dache says that users of its Didi Black service are safe because the company performs background checks on all drivers and because real-time monitoring and record-keeping is in place for all orders.
滴滴打车表示其滴滴专车用户是安全的，因为公司会对所有专车司机进行背景调查，并对所有订单实行实时监控和记录留存。