WASHINGTON — For five years, President Obama has publicly struggled with the question of when America is willing to act as the world’s policeman, and when he will insist that others take the lead, or at least share the risks, costs and resentments it engenders.
华盛顿——五年来，美国总统奥巴马在公众面前面对这个问题时一直感到相当纠结：美国什么时候愿意出面担当世界警察？而他什么时候会要求别国冲锋在前，或者至少分担这种行动产生的风险、代价和反感情绪？
He surged forces into Afghanistan only to quickly reverse himself, speeding the withdrawal with the declaration that “it is time to focus on nation-building here at home.” He briefly joined the fight to halt a slaughter in Libya, but left quickly and refused to go into Syria, a far more complex civil war he saw as nothing but a potential quaqmire.
他曾向阿富汗大幅增兵，此后又很快扭转了立场，加速撤军进程，同时宣称“是时候集中力量，致力于本国的国家建设了”。他一度短暂地加入了制止利比亚屠杀的武装行动，但很快就撤离了，而后又拒绝出兵叙利亚——在他看来，该国那场复杂得多的内战只可能成为一滩泥沼。
His speech Tuesday at the United Nations signaled how what some have called the Obama Doctrine is once again evolving.
他周二在联合国的演讲，显示出了一些人所说的“奥巴马主义”(Obama Doctrine)再度发生嬗变的方式。
In his first term, that doctrine was defined by Mr. Obama’s comfort in confronting direct threats to the United States while he made no secret of his deep reluctance to use American power in long, drawn out conflicts where national interests were remote and allies were missing.
奥巴马的第一届任期里，界定这种原则的内涵的，是他在美国受到直接威胁时的从容应对，而同时又毫不讳言他不愿将美国的力量用在旷日持久、耗费国力，而又不紧密涉及本国利益、缺乏盟友支持的冲突中。
But at the United Nations, Mr. Obama shared the conclusion that he seems to have come to after his own party deserted him when he proposed a military response to the chemical weapons attack that killed more than 1,000 Syrians: The bigger risk for the world in coming years is not that the United States will try to build empires abroad, but that there will be a price to be paid in chaos and disorder if Americans elect to stay home.
而在联合国，奥巴马向众人分享了他的一条结论，这一结论似乎是他在提议对叙利亚造成超过1000多人死亡的化学武器攻击事件采取军事反应，却遭到自己政党的抛弃后得出的。他提出：未来数年世界面临的最大风险，并非美国试图在海外打造其帝国，而是美国若选择退而专注本国事务，将会造成动荡和失序，令世界承受其代价。
Now, after a remarkable month that began with his planning and then aborting a Tomahawk missile strike against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria’s military facilities, Mr. Obama has recommitted himself, he told world leaders on Tuesday, to devoting the rest of his presidency to two high-risk diplomatic initiatives: finding a negotiated end to the Iran confrontation, and creating a separate state for the Palestinians that Israel can live with, without fear.
最近的一个月是不寻常的：奥巴马先是计划、而后又放弃了以“战斧”式(Tomahawk)导弹袭击叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的军事设施。而今，奥巴马在周二告诉世界各国领导人，他已再度担当起重任，将以接下来的总统任期致力于两件高风险的外交行动：寻求通过谈判解决与伊朗的对峙，以及为巴勒斯坦人建立一个既独立，又能让以色列与之安然相处、无须畏惧的国家。
Conspicuously missing from Mr. Obama’s top priorities was a strategy for a lasting solution in Syria, apart from assuring the world that, by negotiation or force, its chemical stockpiles would not be released again and the country would become a safe-haven for terrorist groups. But he did not describe a long-range strategy.
在奥巴马的首要事务中，明显缺失的是叙利亚问题的长期解决方案。他只是向世界保证，无论是通过谈判还是武力，叙利亚的化学武器储备都不再会被施用，该国也不会成为恐怖组织的乐土。然而，他并未勾画任何长远的策略。
What makes the task all the harder for Mr. Obama is a sense that American power in the region is diminished — partly because United States forces have left Iraq; partly because Mr. Obama’s own team has been deeply divided on when to intervene; and partly because Mr. Obama’s own declaration of the “pivot” to Asia has been interpreted, rightly or wrongly, as evidence he has given up on the Middle East.
令此任务更为艰巨的是这样一种感受，即美国在该地区的力量已经削弱了——这一部分是因为美军已经撤离了伊拉克，另一部分是因为奥巴马自己的团队在何时介入的问题上分歧严重，还有一部分原因在于奥巴马本人宣称的“转向亚洲”(pivot to Asia)被解读为他放弃中东的证据，无论这种理解正确与否。
One could hear echoes of that frustration in his speech to the General Assembly, when Mr. Obama came to the edge of mocking those who accuse America of building empires across the globe. At once the United States “is chastised for meddling in the region, and accused of having a hand in all manner of conspiracy,” he said, even as it “is blamed for failing to do enough,” and for “showing indifference toward suffering Muslim populations.”
这种无奈感的回响可以从他在联合国大会上的讲话中听出来。演讲中，他对那些指责美国在全球打造其帝国的人给出的几乎是嘲讽。他说，即使就在美国“被指责未能做得更多”，并且“对穆斯林民众承受的苦难表现得无动于衷”之时，还有人谴责美国“干预该区域事务，指责其参与了形形色色的阴谋”。
But a version of that same debate has played out in the Situation Room of the White House, time and again. When his defense secretary at the time, Robert Gates, and his national security adviser, Tom Donilon, told him he would be crazy to intervene in Libya — a country where, in Mr. Gates’s words, the United States had “no significant national interests” — Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Donilon’s successor, Susan Rice, recalled the massacre of 800,000 Rwandans during the Clinton presidency, and said Mr. Obama could not allow another genocide in the making.
可是，这种争论的某个版本一直以来都在白宫战情室(Situation Room)里反复上演。当时的国防部长罗伯特·盖茨(Robert Gates)和国家安全顾问汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)对他说，他如果介入利比亚——用盖茨的话说，那是一个美国“并无显著国家利益”所在的国家——简直就是疯了；而国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)和多尼隆日后的继任者苏珊·赖斯(Susan Rice)却提到克林顿总统任内，夺去80万卢旺达人性命的大屠杀，并表示奥巴马不应该允许又一场正在酝酿中的种族灭绝事件发生。
Reluctantly, Mr. Obama agreed, and ordered a bombing attack, alongside NATO and the Arab League.
奥巴马很不情愿地同意了，并下令与北约(NATO)和阿拉伯国家联盟(Arab League)一道，对利比亚进行轰炸。
America could not stand by, he said later, because “that’s just not who we are.”
日后，他表示，美国不能坐视不管，因为“我们不是那样的人”。
But last month, as he debated with his staff what looked like imminent American strikes on Syria, he talked about how the box he found himself in differed from what he faced on Libya.
然而上个月，当他就美国对叙利亚似乎迫在眉睫的军事打击，与幕僚展开争论时，他谈起了当前左右为难的局面，与之前面对的利比亚问题是何等地不同。
“He made the case that Libya was a lot simpler,” one participant in the conversation said recently, recounting the stages the president went through as he moved from tentatively embracing a bombing plan, to a failed effort to secure Congressional authorization, to the Russian-authored diplomacy now in place. “In Libya, he had only a narrow window of time to make the decision, or it would have been too late. He had a U.N. Security Council resolution.”
“他指出，利比亚问题要简单的多，”一位会谈参与者近期说道。他复述起总统一路经历的各个阶段：起初是试探性地接受一个轰炸计划，然后是未能取得国会授权，最后又转向俄罗斯提出的现行外交方案。“在利比亚问题上，留给他作决定的时间窗口很有限，错过了就为时晚矣。当时他也有联合国安理会决议作为依据。”
The president, the aide said, ran through his long list and concluded that in Syria, “all that is missing.”
这名幕僚称，总统逐一查阅了清单上一长串要点并得出了结论，在叙利亚“这些都是缺失的”。
But something deeper was going on as well: Mr. Obama had absorbed some bitter lessons. His decision to stay on in Afghanistan had not enhanced the perception of American power in the region, and Libya, once the bombing was over, descended into new chaos. Mr. Gates said last week that he saw, in the Syria gyrations, a president absorbing the lesson of a decade of American mistakes, and coming to the right conclusion after the worst possible process.
然而还有一些更深层次的缘由：奥巴马吸取了一些苦涩的教训。他在阿富汗保持驻军的决定，并未增强该地区对美国实力的认可，而利比亚在轰炸结束后也立刻陷入了新的动荡。上周盖茨表示，他从叙利亚对策的周折反复上看出，总统正在从美国十年来所犯错误中汲取教训，并且经历了最为糟糕的过程而得出了正确的结论。
“Haven’t Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya taught us something about the unintended consequences of military action?” Mr. Gates asked.
盖茨反问道，“关于军事行动会产生始料未及的后果，难道伊拉克、阿富汗和利比亚都没有给我们带来教训吗？”
The question left hanging now is when Mr. Obama will be willing to use force after five years of decidedly mixed experiences. His message now is that the failure of allies and regional neighbors to join with the United States has had a steady, corrosive effect on the American public’s willingness to act.
目前还悬而未决的问题是，奥巴马在经历了十分复杂的五年曲折后，他何时还会再有动武的意愿。现今他所表达是，盟友和区域内的周边国家未能与美国步调一致，这已经对美国民众支持武力行动的意愿产生了持续的侵蚀作用。
And indeed, after the Congressional rebellion over his threat for the briefest of strikes against Syria, it seems hard to imagine how Mr. Obama can credibly threaten the use of force if Mr. Assad reneges on the chemical weapons disarmament plan.
的确，在他提出对叙利亚进行极为短暂的军事威胁也遭到国会的抵抗后，看起来已经难以设想，一旦阿萨德背弃交出化学武装的承诺，奥巴马还如何能够令人信服地以武力进行震慑。
Iran may be a different case. There the stakes are far higher, for Mr. Obama and for his closest ally in the region, Israel, and he made it clear that he would not allow Iran to obtain a weapon on his watch. The question, after five years and several evolutions of the Obama Doctrine, is whether the Iranians believe him.
伊朗的情况也许有所不同。对奥巴马和他的亲密盟友以色列而言，那里牵扯的利益要重大得多。而且他业已明确表示，不能容许伊朗在他任内取得核武器。问题在于，经历了“奥巴马主义”五年来的多次演变后，伊朗方面是否会相信他。