Pity the poor Hollywood film stars: they can’t open movies the way they used to and now they can’t sell magazines.
可怜下好莱坞影星们吧，他们不能再像过去那样为电影揭幕了，现在他们在杂志上也卖不动了。
Even a few years ago, the prize for a magazine editor was in luring an A-list Hollywood star onto the cover. But just as much critical attention has shifted to television from theatrical releases, readers are now more likely to pick up a magazine featuring a television actor, reality star or musician.
几年前，能够吸引一名好莱坞一线影星上封面，对一名杂志编辑来说算是拿到了大奖。但随着大多数批评家的注意力已经从电影发行转移到电视上，读者们现在也更愿意拿起一本封面上是电视演员、真人秀明星或音乐人的杂志。
“There was a day when movie stars were the gold standard for magazines,” said Jess Cagle, the managing editor of Entertainment Weekly, where the frequency and sales of TV-oriented covers are catching up with film covers. “But movie stars are less revered than they used to be, and also audiences have shifted their allegiance in large part to television.”
“曾经有过电影明星做杂志封面是黄金标准的时候,”《娱乐周刊》(Entertainment Weekly)执行主编杰斯·卡格尔(Jess Cagle)说，该杂志封面上电视明星出现的频率正在赶超电影明星。他说，“但现在电影明星没有过去那样受人尊敬了，观众也在很大程度上将其忠诚转移给电视了。”
Glamour featured film stars on half of its covers in 2012. But the May 2012 issue featuring Lauren Conrad, the former star of the reality show “The Hills,” was the year’s best-selling issue, at 500,072 copies. The magazine now expects to make film stars the minority presence in 2013.
《魅力》杂志(Glamour)2012年有一半的封面被电影明星们所占据。但2012年5月一期的封面是真人秀《好莱坞女孩》(The Hills)中的明星劳伦·康拉德(Lauren Conrad)，这一期在当年最畅销，售出了500072本。现在该杂志估计，其2013年封面上出现电影明星的次数将低于一半。
At Cosmopolitan, the best-selling cover this year featured Kim Kardashian in April, with 1.2 million copies sold, followed by the singer Miley Cyrus in March with 1.1 million copies. In 2012, three out of five of Cosmopolitan’s top covers featured the celebrities Demi Lovato with 1.379 million copies sold, Khloé Kardashian at 1.354 million copies and Selena Gomez at 1.334 million copies.
对《时尚》(Cosmopolitan)杂志来说，今年最畅销一期的封面是4月的金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)，售出了120万册，紧随其后的是3月的以歌手麦莉·赛勒斯(Miley Cyrus)为封面的，售出了110万册。在2012年，《时尚》最叫卖的5个封面中，有3个用是社会名流，以黛米·洛瓦托(Demi Lovato)为封面的售出137.9万册，科勒·卡戴珊(Khloé Kardashian)的售出135.4万册，塞莱娜·戈麦斯(Selena Gomez)的售出133.4万册。
Vogue’s best-selling cover in the first four months of 2013 featured Beyoncé with 340,000 copies sold. In 2012, Lady Gaga commanded the cover of Vogue’s September issue and sold nearly double the number of copies of the January 2012 issue, featuring Meryl Streep.
《服饰与美容》(Vogue)在2013年前4个月的最畅销封面是售出34万册的碧昂斯(Beyoncé)。在2012年，Lady Gaga占据了《服饰与美容》9月的封面，其销售量几乎比2012年1月梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)为封面的那期多一倍。
It’s not just younger women’s magazines that are moving away from film stars. When Redbook landed an interview with Gwyneth Paltrow for its January issue, the magazine featured her with her trainer Tracy Anderson and not in what the magazine’s editor in chief, Jill Herzig, called the “traditional A-lister in a ball gown kind of way.”
不仅是年轻女性杂志在远离电影明星。当《生活之友》(Redbook)在1月刊上发表了对格温妮丝·帕特洛(Gwyneth Paltrow)的采访时，该杂志的封面用的是她和她的健身教练特雷西·安德森(Tracy Anderson)，而不是该杂志主编吉尔·赫齐格(Jill Herzig)称之为“传统的一线明星身着舞会礼服的样子。”
Magazine editors credit these changes to the improvement in the quality of television programs and the strength of musicians. These kinds of celebrities also are often more approachable than their film star equivalents. Lesley Jane Seymour, the editor in chief of More magazine, said that more highly regarded actors are taking parts on television instead of film and more people are watching better quality television — critical hits like “Mad Men” and “Homeland.”
杂志编辑把这些变化归因于电视节目质量的提高，以及音乐人的水平。而这类社会名流与电影明星相比，通常也更平易近人。《More》杂志主编莱斯莉·简·西摩(Lesley Jane Seymour)说，更多被看重的演员正在做电视节目而不是电影，同时更多的人在观看质量更好的电视节目，例如《广告狂人》(Mad Men)和《国土安全》(Homeland)等受到好评的热播剧。
Cindi Leive, editor in chief of Glamour, called singers like Beyoncé and Rihanna the “Mick Jaggers of today” whose digital presence translates into newsstand sales.
《魅力》杂志主编辛迪·莱夫(Cindi Leive)把碧昂斯和蕾哈娜(Rihanna)之类歌星称为“今日的米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)”，她们把在网上的表现转变为报刊亭的销售量。
“They do an incredible job of connecting with their fans,” she said.
她说，“在联系自己的粉丝上，她们做得不可思议地好。”
That is not to say television stars overrule all film stars. When Vanity Fair published a May 2012 television issue, it was the magazine’s worst-selling issue of the year, with 183,511 copies sold. People’s recent cover featuring the actress Angelina Jolie sold a robust one million newsstand copies. Joanna Coles, editor in chief of Cosmopolitan, said celebrities like Ms. Jolie sell well because they attract varied audiences. “Angelina is not just a film star,” Ms. Coles said. “She is a spokesman for something bigger.”
但这并不是说电视明星能够压过所有电影明星。《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)在2012年5月出版的电视专期，是该杂志当年销量最糟糕的一期，仅售出183511册。《人物》杂志最近的封面是女影星安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)，在报刊亭卖出了强劲的100万册。《时尚》杂志主编乔安娜·科尔斯(Joanna Coles)说，朱莉之类的名人能够畅销，是因为他们吸引各种观众。科尔斯说，“安吉丽娜不仅是一名电影明星，她代表着更多的东西。”
Film stars carried so much more influence that Ms. Seymour of More, who previously edited Redbook and Marie Claire, said some movie stars refused to appear on magazines if they would be following a cover featuring a television star. At the time, Ms. Seymour said, film stars would say: “Your magazine is too low for me. Why would I be on it?”
《More》杂志的西摩也曾担任《生活之友》和《美丽佳人》(Marie Claire)杂志的主编，她说，电影明星的影响力曾是如此之大，如果前一期封面用了电视明星，一些电影明星会拒绝上后一期杂志的封面。西摩说，那时，电影明星会说，“你的杂志对我来说太低档了。我干吗要出现在那上面呢？”
But that assumption has drastically shifted as television enters a boom time rich with characters. “Television is a medium that cultivates a really personal connection. Zooey Deschanel is not someone you see in a film once a year,” Ms. Leive said of the television actress seen in “New Girl.” “If I have a work problem, I actually want to call Olivia Pope from ‘Scandal.’ ”
但这种情况在电视及其角色进入繁荣期后就彻底改变了。“作为一种媒体，电视能够建立起真正的个人联系。佐伊·德夏内尔(Zooey Deschanel)可并非那种你在电影中一年只能见到一次的人，”莱夫说的是《杰茜驾到》(New Girl)中出现的电视女演员。“如果我在工作中遇到问题，我实际上想找的是《丑闻》(Scandal)中的奥利维娅·波普(Olivia Pope)。”
Mr. Cagle, who noted that less than 5 percent of Entertainment Weekly’s circulation came from newsstand sales, said that he often measured the success of a cover by its social media impact. The casts of television programs like “Pretty Little Liars” and “Vampire Diaries” — along with their fans — are more likely to post an article link on Twitter or share it on Facebook.
卡格尔指出，《娱乐周刊》仅有5%的发行量是通过报刊亭的销售渠道，他还说，他通常以一个封面在社交媒体的影响力来评估其是否成功。诸如《美少女的谎言》(Pretty Little Liars)和《吸血鬼日记》(Vampire Diaries)之类电视剧的演员，再加上他们的粉丝，很有可能在Twitter上发一条文章链接，或在Facebook分享。
“When Ian Somerhalder tweets out your cover, that’s really great,” said Mr. Cagle, referring to the “Vampire Diaries” star. “Your cover has this whole life.”
“如果伊恩·萨默海尔德(Ian Somerhalder)能够在Twitter上发你的封面，那真是棒极了，”卡格尔说的是《吸血鬼日记》中的明星。“你的封面就有活力了。”
The holdout seems to be men’s magazines. Dan Peres, Details’ editor in chief, said that in the last three years, the number of film stars on his magazine’s covers grew from seven in 2011 to all five covers so far in 2013. He noted that while women might be drawn to a more relatable television star or musician, men could relate to plenty of film stars.
男性杂志的情况似乎还没有改变。《Details》杂志主编丹·佩雷斯(Dan Peres)说，至少在最近3年里，他杂志封面上的男电影明星的人数一直在增加，2011年是7个，2013年迄今为止的5本都是。他指出，尽管女性或许被更容易产生共鸣的电视明星或音乐人所吸引，男性仍喜欢许多电影明星。
“With men, at least from where I am sitting, it’s a little bit different. We still want to emulate a little bit. We still want somebody who is a little bit of an icon,” Mr. Peres said. “Johnny Depp, Brad Pitt, these are still guys you want to relate to.”
佩雷斯说，“至于男性，至少从我的角度来看，还是有些不同的。我们仍需要一些有点偶像式的人物，比如约翰尼·德普(Johnny Depp)和布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)，这些家伙是我们愿意接触的人。”