“If I knew then, what I know now” is a familiar, wistful refrain. What would we tell our younger selves if we could? In “Uncanny X-Men” No. 600, which was published Wednesday by Marvel Entertainment, readers get to see the mutant hero Iceman have a conversation with his past self thanks to time travel (because, you know, comics). But it is the younger Iceman that forces the older to acknowledge a truth: He, Bobby Drake, is gay.
“如果我当初知道的话，现在就会不一样了。”这是一句常见的感叹。如果能见到年轻时的自己，我们会说些什么呢？在漫威娱乐(Marvel Entertainment)周三出版的第600集《神奇X战警》(Uncanny X-Men)中，读者就能看到变种英雄冰人(Iceman)回到过去，与年轻的自己对话（漫画嘛）。不过这回，是年轻的冰人迫使现在的冰人接受一件事实：他，鲍比·德雷克(Bobby Drake)，是同性恋。
The scene, drawn by Mahmud Asrar, comes in the middle of the issue, which marks the end of a four-year run writing the X-Men by Brian Michael Bendis, who is one of Marvel’s most popular creators. “I put all my energy into being a mutant and X-Men and putting my life in danger every 10 minutes for everyone else,” the older Bobby starts to explain. “Can I just have part of my life that I’m not being persecuted for?”
该场景为马哈茂德·艾斯拉(Mahmud Asra)所画，出现在600集的中部，也代表了漫威漫画里最受欢迎的作者之一布莱恩·迈克尔·本迪斯 (Brian Michael Bendis)四年《X-战警》创作生涯的终结。现在的鲍比解释：“我全心全意地当一名变种人，每隔10分钟就得为了他人让自己生命暴露于危险中。我能不能有一部分的自我，不用这样时时受到逼迫？”
It was a remarkable moment for a character who was part of the Marvel revolution of the early 1960s. Iceman first appeared in 1963 in the first issue of “The X-Men,” written by Stan Lee and drawn by Jack Kirby. The team reached the height of its popularity under Chris Claremont, who wrote the international, culturally and religiously diverse team — and drove home the mutants’ message of acceptance — for over 25 years.
对一个于60年代早期推动了漫威革命的角色来说，这是值得纪念的时刻。冰人于1963年首次见于斯坦·李(Stan Lee)所作、杰克·科比(Jack Kirby)所画的第一集《X战警》(The X-men)。在克里斯·克雷蒙(Chris Claremont)担任作者的逾25年里，他将国籍、文化和宗教各异的角色组成英雄团队，极为强调变种人蕴含的包容讯息。在他的笔下，X战警持续流行。
Axel Alonso, the editor in chief of Marvel, said Thursday that the talks about Iceman began about a year ago when Mr. Bendis submitted a script with the revelation. “There had been some casual conversations in the past about Iceman and his sexuality,” he said. “Why was he on the periphery of his own team?” They discussed clues that the hero might have a secret. Mr. Alonso and his editorial team felt it made sense to move ahead. “It not only explained Bobby, but it deepened his story and gave him an added dimension,” he said.
漫威主编阿克塞尔·阿隆索(Axel Alonso)周四接受采访时表示，这个关于冰人的讨论大约在一年前就开始了。当时，本迪斯提交了冰人出柜的一个剧本草稿。阿隆索说：“我们以前闲聊过冰人和他的性取向，”他说。“为什么他在团队中处于边缘地位？”他们探讨了种种线索，得到的结论是，这位超级英雄可能有个秘密。阿隆索和编辑团队认为该是更进一步的时候了。他说：“这不仅能让大家更了解鲍比，他的故事也得以扩展，多了一层面向。”
In April, X-Men readers learned that the younger Iceman was gay thanks, in no small part, to the mental prying by Jean Gray, a telepathic teammate. (Not cool, Jean.) Once it was revealed, fans wondered about the implications: How could the younger Iceman, who had traveled to the present with the original X-Men, be gay but not his older self? As if time travel were not complicated enough.
今年4月时，《X战警》的读者便知道年轻版的冰人是同性恋，主要因为会读心术的凤凰女琴·格雷(Jean Grey)感应到他的心思。（琴，这么做可不好。）他的性向一旦揭露出来，粉丝便开始猜测其中隐含的意义：年轻版的冰人跟原本的X战警一同穿越到现代来，怎么可能年轻版的冰人是同性恋，而现在的不是呢？仿佛时空之旅还不够复杂似的。
A thoughtful essay at comicsalliance.com pointed out the potential extremes: If the older Iceman were straight, it could be a story clue that the younger heroes were not who they seemed. If they were the same and the older Iceman remained straight, it would send a dangerous message that “a gay teenager can grow up to be straight.”
漫画网站comicsalliance.com上一篇详尽的文章便点出了潜在的极端状况：如果现在的冰人是直男，这可能是故事里的一条线索，暗示年轻版的冰人可能跟现在看到的不是同一群人。但如果他们是同一位，现在的冰人仍为直男，这就可能会传达出一个危险的讯息，意即“青少年同性恋长大后可能成为直男。”
That confusion was averted thanks to the older Iceman’s revelation. He and his younger self also agree on how impossibly handsome their teammate Angel is. (Besides his wings, his chiseled face and body give credence to his code name.)
现在的冰人的性向如今揭开，避免掉了上述的困惑。而且，他跟年轻的自己都认同团队里的天使(Angle)帅得无与伦比。（不只是他的翅膀，他俊俏的脸庞和健壮的体格都与称号非常相衬。）
The question for fans now is whether this revelation will be followed up, especially in the wake of the departure of Mr. Bendis, who writes eloquently in his afterword about the X-Men’s mission for embracing diversity: “I am Jewish. I am the father of a multiracial household. I have felt the pain and struggle of being judged and shunned for being different.” Readers cannot help but wonder how he would have presented Iceman’s journey.
粉丝们目前的疑问就是，这个自我揭示是否会有后续发展，尤其是在本迪斯要离开之际。他在《Ｘ战警》的后记洋洋洒洒地写着X战警包容多样化的使命：“我是犹太人，是一位有着多种族背景家庭的父亲。我感受过因与他人不同，而受批评、排挤的痛苦和挣扎。”读者不禁好奇，他本会如何表现冰人的心路历程。
But fandom can rest easy for now: Neither version of the hero is being forgotten. The older Iceman is part of “Extraordinary X-Men,” a new series that began on Wednesday, and the younger hero is part of “All-New X-Men,” which will begin next month.
但粉丝们现在可以放宽心，两个版本的冰人都不会受人淡忘。现在的冰人将是周三开始的新连载《超凡X战警》(Extraordinary X-Men)里面的一员，而年轻版的冰人将会在下个月开始的《全新Ｘ战警》(All-New X-Men)里出现。
Mr. Alonso said the feedback has been largely positive. On one side are the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender readers “who are looking to see their reflection in our characters,” he said. But there are also critics. “Some readers see this as opportunism, but I can assure you it is not,” he added.
阿隆索说，目前得到的回馈大多是正面的。其中有一部分是身为男女同性恋、双性恋、跨性别的读者，“他们期盼能在我们的角色里看到自己的反射。”但也有一些批评的声音。他补充道：“有些读者觉得此举为投机，但我向你保证绝对不是。”
Comic books are no strangers to gay heroes. When the mutant hero Northstar came out in 1992, the news was praised in an editorial in The New York Times: “Comics have often explored new terrain, conferring hero status on groups that society in general had stereotyped in peripheral roles.” Since then, many more gay, lesbian and bisexual champions have been introduced.
在漫画里，同性恋英雄并不是什么新鲜事。1992年，变种人英雄“北星”(Northstar)出柜了，当时《纽约时报》的一篇社论称赞了这事：“漫画世界里常开拓新的领域，给予那些在社会里常背负刻板印象的边缘族群英雄的、地位。”自那时候起，就开始出现了更多男女同性恋和双性恋的主角。
With this turn of events, Iceman may be the most high-profile gay hero, though that can be like debating who is stronger, Thor or Superman? DC Comics has a series starring Midnighter, a gay hero whose adventures include an active sex life, and Harley Quinn, a bisexual supervillain who has had relationships with the Joker and Poison Ivy.
通过这次的情节转折，冰人可能成为知名度最高的同性恋英雄，不过此事就好像在争雷神(Thor)跟超人(Superman)谁比较厉害一样并无定论。DC有一套以同性恋取向的夜行侠(Midnighter)为主角的漫画，他的冒险包括了活跃的性生活。还有双性恋反派人物哈利·奎茵(Harley Quinn)，她跟小丑(Joker)还有毒藤女(Poison Ivy)都曾有过一段情。
But those DC characters were introduced in the 1990s. Iceman’s first appearance was in 1963. “He is a perennial character,” Mr. Alonso said. And one with significant exposure outside of comics, including an animated series with Spider-Man and portrayal in the popular X-Men films.
这些DC的角色都出现于90年代，而冰人于1963年初登场。阿隆索说：“他是个长青角色。”冰人在漫画以外的世界也有非常多曝光度，像是与蜘蛛侠一同出现在动画里，在《X战警》的卖座系列电影中也有真实角色。
“This fulfilled our mandate to reflect the world outside the window,” Mr. Alonso said. “We wouldn’t have done it if it didn’t make sense.”
“这符合我们的使命，反映窗外的真实世界，”阿索隆说。“如果没有意义的话，我们就不会做这项决定了。”