KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The lead coordinator of the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 said Monday that after six days without detecting any further underwater signals that could be from the plane’s flight recorders, searchers planned to take the hunt to the dark depths of the Indian Ocean, deploying a submersible vehicle to scan the seabed for any signs of wreckage.
马来西亚吉隆坡——周一，马来西亚航空370航班搜寻工作的首席协调人称，六天来，他们没有收到任何可能来自飞机飞行记录仪的水下信号，搜寻人员由此计划将搜寻工作转移到幽暗的印度洋深海。他们部署了一个潜水设备来扫描海床，以查看上面是否存在残骸。
The absence of any more pings, taken together with the belief that the batteries on the flight recorders were at the end of their life span, has led the authorities to conclude that they are unlikely to detect any further signals and that they need to shift search tactics.
由于没有接收到更多的ping信号，人们又认为飞机飞行记录仪上的电池已经耗尽，官员便断定不太可能搜索到新的信号，因此需要改变搜索策略。
“It is time to go underwater,” the lead coordinator, Angus Houston, said at a news conference in Perth, Australia.
负责协调搜寻工作的安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)在澳大利亚珀斯的新闻发布会上说，“现在到了进行水下搜索的时候。”
But striking a note of caution that has become a motif of his public appearances, Mr. Houston said there was no guarantee that searchers would find the wreck.
休斯顿拿出他在公开露面时的一贯腔调，谨慎地表示，目前仍无法保证搜寻人员能找到残骸。
“Don’t be overoptimistic,” he said. “Be realistic.”
“不能过于乐观，”他说，“要现实。”
He added, “It may be very difficult to find something, and you don’t know how good any lead is until you get your eyes on the wreckage.”
他还说，“要找到一些东西可能非常困难，在看到残骸之前，你根本无法判断任何线索的用处。”
The decision to deploy the submersible opens a new phase in the search for the flight recorders and the rest of the plane’s wreckage, which might provide crucial evidence in determining what caused the Boeing 777-200 to veer off its scheduled route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8 and vanish with 239 people on board.
部署潜水设备的决定为搜寻飞行记录仪和飞机残骸的工作开启了一个新篇章，这些东西可能会提供关键证据，说明这架波音(Boeing)777-200为何会在3月8日偏离从吉隆坡飞往北京的原定航线，然后连同飞机上的239人一起消失。
Mr. Houston said the submarine’s deployment would happen as soon as Monday evening.
休斯顿说，潜水设备最早将于周一夜间投入使用。
Search coordinators had hoped to capture more signals to better locate the sources.
为了更好地定位信号来源，搜索协调人员曾希望侦测到更多的信号。
“Despite the lack of further detections, the four signals previously acquired, taken together, constitute the most promising lead we have in the search,” Mr. Houston said. “We need to pursue this lead as far as possible.”
“虽然没有侦测到更多信号，但我们可以把之前获得的四个信号结合起来，组成我们在这次搜寻工作中最有希望的线索，”休斯顿说，“我们要尽可能地挖掘这条线索。”
He did not specify the size of the prospective search zone on the seabed, only calling it “a reduced and manageable search area.”
他并未指明海床上的预期搜索区的面积，只表示这是一个“范围缩小、可以掌控的搜索区”。
Mr. Houston also said that an oil slick had been detected in the search zone and that samples had been recovered for testing, but that results would not be available for several days. The slick was about three and a half miles away from the area where searchers had detected the underwater signals.
休斯顿还说，工作人员在搜索区发现了一条油迹，并已进行取样测试，但结果还要几天才能出来。这条油迹距离搜索人员发现水下信号的区域大约3.5英里（约合5.6公里）。
For their underwater hunt, search officials had been depending on the so-called towed pinger locator, essentially an elaborate microphone that a crew dropped about a mile below the surface and dragged behind the Ocean Shield, an Australian naval vessel. The locator detected two sets of signals on April 5 and two more on April 8 in an area about 1,000 miles northwest of Perth.
在此前的水下搜寻工作中，负责搜索的官员一直依赖所谓的拖曳式声波定位仪。它大致是一个精心制作的麦克风，工作人员将它抛到水下大约1英里的地方，再由澳大利亚海军舰船“海盾号”拖着它前进。在珀斯西北约1000英里处的水域，这个定位仪于4月5日侦测到两组信号，又于4月8日侦测到另外两组。
With the move to the ocean floor, the searchers’ most valuable tool will be a Bluefin-21, a remote-controlled submersible operated by an American team that has also been in charge of the pinger locator. The submarine will initially take sonar scans of the seabed. If technicians on board Ocean Shield see anything in the scans that warrants closer attention, they will outfit the Bluefin with a camera and send it back down to take photographs.
随着搜寻工作转移到海底，搜寻人员最有价值的工具将是“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)。这是一台遥控潜水设备，由负责声波定位仪的美国团队操控。该设备首先将对海床进行声纳扫描。“海盾号”上的技术人员如果在扫描图像中看到了需要进一步关注的内容，就会给蓝鳍装配一台摄像机，然后把它送回去拍摄照片。
The ocean floor in the area of the pings is about 2.8 miles deep, putting the search at the limit of the Bluefin’s diving range.
ping信号所在区域的海床大约深2.8英里，搜索工作由此达到了蓝鳍的潜水极限。
In the meantime, Mr. Houston said, planes and vessels will continue to scour the ocean surface in hopes of finding debris from the plane. Despite weeks of searching, no debris from the aircraft has been recovered.
休斯顿说，与此同时，飞机和船只将继续对海面进行搜寻，希望能找到飞机残骸。虽然经过数周搜寻，人们迄今仍未发现任何残骸。
Search officials said in a news release that as many as 12 aircraft and 15 ships would be deployed in the search on Monday across an area of about 18,000 square miles. The center of the search zone lies about 1,400 miles northwest of Perth and several hundred miles west of the area where Ocean Shield has been trawling for pings. Investigators believe that any plane debris is likely to have drifted far from the point where the plane entered the ocean.
负责搜索的官员在新闻发布会上说，周一将有多达12架飞机和15艘船被部署到面积约1.8万平方英里的区域。搜索区的中心位于珀斯西北方向约1400英里处，东距“海盾号”搜寻ping信号的区域几百英里。调查人员认为，如果存在飞机残骸，它们很可能已经漂流到了离飞机坠海地点很远的地方。
Though encouraged by the four signals gathered over the past week and a half, search officials have cautioned that a successful identification of the plane could take a long time, with some exploration experts predicting that a search and recovery effort of this sort could take more than a year. Among the challenges that searchers face in the hunt for Flight 370 is the unfamiliarity of the seabed of the Indian Ocean west of Australia, which has not been fully mapped. Mr. Houston said the seabed was thought to resemble rolling hills but was covered in deep layers of silt, which could impede discovery and recovery of wreckage.
虽然过去一周半收集到的四个信号令人鼓舞，但搜寻官员提醒称，成功找到飞机可能需要很长的时间，一些探测专家也预测，这种搜索寻回行动需要的时间可能会超过一年。搜寻370航班的人员面临很多挑战，比如不熟悉澳大利亚以西印度洋海底的情况，该区域也没有经过详尽的测绘。休斯顿表示，人们认为这片海底像是起伏的丘陵，但却覆盖着厚厚的淤泥，这可能会阻碍搜索人员发现并找回飞机残骸。
Moreover, the extreme depths in the area will limit the set of exploration tools at the searchers’ disposal.
此外，该区域极深，搜寻人员可以使用的探寻工具由此受限。
“I think this is an area that is new to man,” Mr. Houston said Monday, calling the environment “very demanding.”
休斯顿在周一表示，“我觉得，这对人类来说是一片新区域”，并称该区域环境“非常严酷”。
The Bluefin-21, made by Bluefin Robotics of Quincy, Mass., and owned by Phoenix International Holdings, a Navy contractor in Largo, Md., is a torpedo-shaped vehicle about 17 feet long that will cruise at about 115 feet above the seabed, according to a spokesman for the United States Navy’s Seventh Fleet, which is overseeing American naval contributions to the search. Using a sonar system, it will create a high-resolution, three-dimensional map of the bottom that technicians on board the Ocean Shield will evaluate for signs of wreckage.
负责监管美国海军搜索行动的美国海军第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)的发言人透露，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”由马萨诸塞州昆西市蓝鳍金枪鱼机器人技术公司(Bluefin Robotics)制造，由马里兰州拉戈市的海军承包商凤凰国际控股有限公司(Phoenix International Holdings)拥有，是一个17英尺（约合5.18米）长的鱼雷形潜水器，它将在海床上方约115英尺处巡航。它将利用声呐系统来绘制海底的高清三维地图，“海盾号”上的技术人员将评估海底是否存在残骸的迹象。
Mr. Houston explained that each deployment of the Bluefin would last a minimum of 20 hours: two hours for the Bluefin to descend, 16 hours to conduct its scans and two hours to return to the surface. Technicians will then take about four hours to download and analyze the data before deploying the submarine on another dive. The team will have no indication of what the vehicle is seeing until it returns and the data is downloaded.
休斯顿解释称，蓝鳍的工作时间每次都不会少于20小时：下沉需要两小时，搜寻16小时，然后还需要两小时回到海面。再次让蓝鳍潜入海底前，技术人员将需要大约四小时的时间来下载、分析数据。潜水器回到海面并下载完数据之后，技术团队才会知道它看到了什么。
Mr. Houston said that in its first mission, the Bluefin would cover an area of about 15 square miles.
休斯顿表示，蓝鳍的第一次任务涉及大约15平方英里（约合39平方公里）的区域。
It could take anywhere from six weeks to two months to scan the entire search area, the United States Navy said in a statement.
美国海军在一份声明中表示，该潜水器需要六周至两个月的时间才能搜遍整个搜索区域。
The vehicle “has the potential to take us a further step towards visual identification, since it offers a possible opportunity to detect debris from the aircraft on the ocean floor,” he said.
他说，该潜水器“可能会让我们进一步接近视觉识别的目标，因为它提供了一个探测到海底飞机残骸的可能机会。”
If the water turns out to be deeper than the Bluefin can handle, he said, officials will have to employ another submersible with the ability to dive to greater depths.
他表示，如果这片海域的深度超过了该潜水器的潜水能力，官员们就只能部署一个能潜入更深区域的潜水器。
If the search crew sees something intriguing in the sonar scans, it will fit the Bluefin with a camera and send it on a course about 20 feet from the sea bottom, taking photos.
如果搜索人员从声呐扫描图像中看到了值得注意的东西，他们将给蓝鳍潜水器装上摄像头，让它下潜到海底上方约20英尺处，拍摄照片。
The final phase of the investigation would involve the recovery of the black boxes and possibly elements of the wreckage along with corpses to help investigators determine what happened to the plane. The circumstances of its disappearance, currently the focus of a criminal investigation by the Malaysian authorities in collaboration with international investigators, could demand a careful examination of any debris discovered on the seabed.
调查的最后阶段将涉及找回黑盒子，可能还有部分残骸及遗体，以便帮助调查人员判定飞机的遭遇。飞机失踪经过是马来西亚当局与国际调查人员联合开展的刑事调查工作的重点，要确定失踪经过，可能需要仔细检查在海底发现的所有残骸。
But officials warned that the search effort was possibly still a long way from that stage.
但官员们警告称，搜索行动可能远没有进入最后阶段。