In the back of a pastry shop in this city in eastern France is a small kitchen that holds a secret.
法国南希——在法国东部的这座城市，一个糕点店后面的小厨房里藏着一个秘密。
It is here that Nicolas Génot comes early every morning, shuts the sliding door tight behind him and transforms ground almonds, egg whites and sugar into cookies called macarons. He works alone. Not even his wife is allowed in.
每天一大早，尼古拉斯·热诺(Nicolas Génot)把身后的滑动门关严，把杏仁粉、蛋白和糖变成一种名叫马卡龙的甜点。他独自制作。连妻子也不能参与。
This macaron — round, unadorned, with rough fissures in its crisp golden crust — is made from a centuries-old recipe. In 1792, two Benedictine nuns, driven from their convent after France’s postrevolutionary government banned religious orders, took refuge with a local doctor and made a living making macarons. Their recipe has been passed down in secret ever since.
这种马卡龙甜点是圆形的，不加装饰，金黄色的脆皮外壳上有粗糙的裂纹。它是根据一个有几百年历史的菜谱做成的。1792年，大革命后的法国政府禁止宗教活动，两个本笃会修女从女修道院中被赶出来，在当地一个医生家里避难，靠卖马卡龙甜点为生。从那以后，她们的菜谱被秘密流传下来。
These are the rustic original macarons that begot the smooth-topped, puffed up, ganache-filled, pastel food-colored sandwich confections we know. But while the Nancy macarons are timeless, their trendy present-day cousins are going through strange times. What was once the most exquisite of small pleasures, the most elegant hostess gift you could buy, is everywhere today, as ordinary as Oreos. Some are good, some not so good. Some have ketchup in the middle. Some are from McDonald’s.
正是这种纯朴、原始的马卡龙孕育了我们现在知道的这种顶部光滑、蓬松、填有巧克力酱、带有各种鲜艳色彩的点心。虽然南希马卡龙是永恒的，但现在各种大同小异的时尚马卡龙正经历着奇怪的时期。它们曾经是最精致的甜点，是你能买给女主人的最优雅的东西，如今却到处都是，像奥利奥一样普通。有的好吃，有的不怎么好吃。有的中间夹的是番茄酱。有的是从麦当劳买的。
So disappointing, at a time when the perfect French macaron (pronounced mah-kah-ROHN) has never been needed more.
这真让人失望，因为人们从未像现在这样需要完美的法式马卡龙（它的发音是mah-kah-ROHN）。
With the French economy spiraling downward, with pessimism infecting France like black mold, la patisserie (the pastry) has risen in importance. “Is la pâtisserie going to replace sex?” screamed the headline of an article in the magazine Marianne this spring.
法国经济不断下滑，悲观情绪像黑霉病一样在法国蔓延开来，甜品店显得越来越重要。今年春天《Marianne》杂志的一篇文章标题高呼：“甜品店要取代性吗？”
But the article was not about macarons. In Paris, hardly anyone talks about macarons. The battle for the palates of the French seems to be elsewhere.
但是那篇文章并不是关于马卡龙的。在巴黎，几乎没人谈论马卡龙。法国人的味觉之战似乎发生在别的地方。
Madame Figaro magazine announced recently that “the cream-filled puff pastry has replaced the macaron.” And the Styles supplement of the weekly magazine L’Express declared the éclair the winner, having “rendered the macaron old-fashioned.”
《费加罗夫人》(Madame Figaro)杂志最近宣布“奶油泡芙已经取代了马卡龙”。《快报》(L’Express)周刊的增刊《风尚》(Styles)宣布，奶油卷已经获胜，“使马卡龙显得落伍”。
Of course none of this matters to Mr. Génot, the baker of the classic macaron, which I sampled from the parchment paper on a tray still warm from the oven. It was crisp on the outside and moist and soft in the middle, with just enough chew.
当然，对于经典马卡龙糕点师热诺来说，这些都无所谓。从烤箱中取出的烤盘仍然温热，我从烤盘上的羊皮纸上取了一个马卡龙，尝了一口。外面松脆，中间湿润柔软，嚼头刚刚好。
It took me back to Buffalo, to the pignoli, a Sicilian version of macarons studded with pine nuts that my Aunt Lili made in huge batches at Christmas. Like Mr. Génot, she kept her recipe secret, not by withholding it, but by slightly altering proportions of the ingredients in every retelling.
它让我想起了水牛城，想起了莉莉阿姨在圣诞节做的大堆“pignoli”，它是西西里岛的马卡龙，上面点缀着松仁。像热诺一样，她也保守菜谱的秘密，她不是不说，而是每次说的时候都稍微修改配料的比例。
“Ours are the originals, the macarons of the French Revolution,” said Mr. Génot, who runs Maison des Soeurs Macarons (House of the Macarons Sisters) in Nancy. “We keep it pure. We keep the secret.”
“我们的马卡龙是正宗的马卡龙，是法国大革命时的马卡龙，”热诺说。他在南希经营马卡龙姐妹之家糕点房(Maison des Soeurs Macarons)。“我们保持它的纯正。我们守着这个秘密。”
Blame the macaron’s downfall on Marie Antoinette: Sofia Coppola’s film “Marie Antoinette,” that is. Ms. Coppola decorated Versailles with macaron pyramids from Ladurée in shades that matched the pastel dresses of the teenage queen and her court. Ladurée created a Marie Antoinette macaron for the occasion: rose with anise.
把马卡龙的衰落归罪于玛丽·安托瓦内特(Marie Antoinette)吧，准确地说，是归罪于索菲亚·科波拉(Sofia Coppola)的电影《绝代艳后》。科波拉用拉杜丽(Ladurée)甜品店的马卡龙做成金字塔装饰凡尔赛宫，马卡龙的颜色要与这位少年女王和扈从们的彩色长裙相匹配。拉杜丽甜品店专门为此制作了一种玛丽·安托瓦内特马卡龙，它是玫瑰色的，含有茴芹。
Never mind that sandwich macarons didn’t exist in prerevolutionary France. By 2007, McDonald’s had introduced six flavors of macarons in their McCafés. (Billboards in the Paris metro earlier this year promoted a McDonald’s macaron and an espresso in a porcelain cup and saucer for just 1.50 euros).
不要在意夹心马卡龙在法国大革命之前不存在。2007年，麦当劳在它的麦咖啡系列里已推出了六种口味的马卡龙。今年早些时候，麦当劳在巴黎地铁的广告上宣传了用瓷杯和碟子盛着的浓咖啡搭配马卡龙，售价仅为1.5欧元）。
In the United States, Oprah endorsed chef Eddy Rocq’s pink, gluten-free macarons (with 25 percent of the proceeds for charity). And macarons made it into at least three seasons of “Gossip Girl.” (In the finale of Season 2, Chuck and Blair reconcile after he brings her favorite macarons from Pierre Hermé; in Season 3, Serena and Blair are feuding and Chuck, armed with scotch and Ladurée macarons, traps them in an elevator so they can work things out; in Season 4: Blair, upset at Chuck, soaks in a tub eating macarons out of a pale green box.)
在美国，奥普拉支持大厨埃迪·罗克(Eddy Rocq)的粉红色、无麸质马卡龙（25%的收益用于慈善）。《绯闻女孩》(Gossip Girl)中至少有三季提到马卡龙（在第二季的最后一集，查克给布莱尔带回了她最喜欢的皮埃尔·赫梅[Pierre Hermé]甜品店的马卡龙，他们两个因此和好了；在第三季，塞丽娜和布莱尔闹别扭，查克带着威士忌和拉杜丽马卡龙把她们困在电梯里，让她们和解；在第四季，布莱尔生查克的气时，泡在浴缸里，吃着装在淡绿色盒子里的马卡龙）。
I no longer bring Ladurée or Pierre Hermé macarons (no matter how pretty the box) to a dinner party and expect the hostess to squeal with delight. But Mr. Hermé, a fourth-generation pastry chef who makes the macarons that bear his name, says I am wrong: “A great macaron is like a great suit: there’s Chanel and then there’s, there’s Zara. There will always be a market for the luxury macaron.”
当我带着拉杜丽或皮埃尔·赫梅牌的马卡龙（不管盒子多漂亮）参加宴会的时候，我不再期待女主人欣喜地尖叫。但是赫梅(Hermé)先生说我错了：“上好的马卡龙就像上好的西服：有香奈儿(Chanel)，也有Zara。高档马卡龙永远都有市场。”赫梅是家里的第四代甜品师，他的马卡龙以自己的名字命名。
His macarons, among Paris’s best, are now made in a factory (he calls it an atelier) in Alsace, and shipped within France as well as to Tokyo, Hong Kong, London, Dubai and, soon, Doha.
他的马卡龙是巴黎最好的马卡龙之一，如今是在阿尔萨斯的工厂（他称之为工作室）里制作的，然后运往法国各地以及东京、香港、伦敦和迪拜，很快也将运往多哈。
Does he ship them frozen? “Any pastry chef who says he doesn’t freeze his macarons is a liar,” Mr. Hermé said.
他是冷冻运输的吗？“任何一个说自己不冷冻马卡龙的糕点师都在撒谎，”赫梅说。
Ladurée has also expanded. If you can’t get to one of its shops in Paris before leaving the country, you can buy macarons at mini-Ladurée stands at both Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports. There are Ladurée shops in 21 countries. Macarons shipped to non-French destinations for Ladurée come out of a factory in Switzerland, where they are frozen before shipping. (“We don’t say they are frozen — it’s not a very pretty word,” said a Ladurée spokeswoman, Aude Schlosser. “We say they are in hibernation.”)
拉杜丽也开始扩张了。如果你在离开法国之前来不及前往它在巴黎的专卖店，那你可以在戴高乐机场或奥利机场拉杜丽的迷你店里买马卡龙。拉杜丽在21个国家开设了分店。运往非法国目的地的拉杜丽牌马卡龙出自瑞士的一个工厂，运输之前要冷冻（“我们不说它们被冷冻了——这个词不太好听，”拉杜丽的发言人奥德·斯克拉斯[Aude Schlosser]说，“我们说它们在冬眠。”）。
No matter. When the company opened a shop on Madison Avenue in August 2011, the line to buy macarons ($2.80 each) stretched long down the block. By the end of the year, Ladurée will open a shop on West Broadway in SoHo, with three “salons” that can seat a total of 92 people and a garden for 70 more. It will be open daily from 8 in the morning until midnight.
那没关系。2011年8月，这家公司在麦迪逊大街开设专卖店的时候，买马卡龙（一个2.8美元）的长队排到了街尾。今年年底，拉杜丽将在SoHo的西百老汇街开一家新店，店里将有三个“沙龙”，能容纳92个人，还有个花园，能坐70多个人。它将每天从早上8点营业到午夜。
But try hard enough and you can find small-scale bakers making great macarons, like Arnaud Delmontel, a baker and pastry chef in my neighborhood. I was invited to his kitchen to learn to make them.
但是如果你够努力，你能找到生产上好马卡龙的小糕点师，比如我家附近的阿诺·德尔蒙特尔(Arnaud Delmontel)。他邀请我去他的厨房学习制作马卡龙。
Two men in his kitchen turn out about 3,000 macarons a day in four flavors. I watched as one made a pistachio-flavored filling while the other squeezed out the meringue-based cookie shells onto baking sheets, ending them in comma-like swirls. Mr. Delmontel handed me the metal-tipped pastry bag, cupped his hand around mine and ordered me to squeeze. “I squeeze, I squeeze, I squeeze, I squeeze, I squeeze,” he said. I did what I was told; let’s just say my squeezes and swirls were done with panache.
他厨房里的两个人每天制作约3000个马卡龙，分四种口味。其中一个人制作开心果口味的填馅，另一个把蛋白霜底饼干壳挤到烤盘上，以逗号形状的小漩涡结尾。德尔蒙特尔把有金属头的挤花袋递给我，握住我的双手，让我开始挤。“我挤，我挤，我挤，我挤，我挤，”他说。我照他说的做。我觉得我挤花和做漩涡的动作还挺帅的。
The baking sheets were pounded on the counter 20 times or more to make the cookies uniform. They sat for 30 to 60 minutes before they were baked and then refrigerated before they were filled.
把烤盘在操作台上撞击20多次，让饼干统一。先放置30至60分钟，然后再烘烤。填馅之前先冷藏。
They reminded me of the macarons I bought years ago, when friends from New York moved to Paris and their 7-year-old daughter, Louisa, found herself sleeping on a mattress on the floor of a temporary flat full of horsehair-stuffed furniture that triggered her allergies.
它们让我想起了我多年前买的马卡龙。我纽约的两个朋友搬到了巴黎，他们7岁的女儿路易莎(Louisa)睡在临时公寓地板的床垫上，她发现公寓里到处都是用马毛填充的家具，引起了她的过敏。
I marched her straight over to the macaron counter in the food hall of the Bon Marché department store. Hundreds of pillows of sugar and meringue in riotous colors beckoned.
我把她径直带到了玻马舍(Bon Marché)百货公司食品部的马卡龙柜台。成百上千堆的甜点在召唤我们，它们五颜六色，是用糖与调和蛋白制成的。
We bought a box of a dozen, all of them different. She chose bright lemon yellow; I chose coffee. Together, we bit into the crusts, as smooth as — but thinner than — eggshells. Our tongues sunk deep into the meringue until they hit the smooth richness of the centers. We repeated the ritual, over and over. I can’t remember if we ate the whole box. But at that moment, all was right with the world.
我们买了一盒，共12个，每个都不一样。她选择了明亮的柠檬色，我选了咖啡色。外面的脆皮像蛋壳一样光滑，但是比蛋壳更薄。我们脆皮咬下来，把舌头伸到调和蛋白里，接触到中心光滑、丰富的内容，一遍一遍地重复这个仪式。我不记得我们有没有吃完一整盒。但是那一刻，世界上的一切都美极了。