BEIJING — Australia plans to join an Asian infrastructure bank led by China, the government announced on Sunday, reversing an earlier decision taken at the behest of the United States not to become a member.
北京——澳大利亚政府周日宣布，该国计划加入由中国主导的一家亚洲基础设施银行，推翻了早些时候根据美国的意愿所做出的不加入该银行的决定。
The office of Prime Minister Tony Abbott said in a statement that Australia still had concerns about the management of the bank but recognized the pressing needs for infrastructure in the Asian region.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)的办公室在声明中称，澳大利亚仍然对该银行的管理存在顾虑，但同时也承认亚洲地区迫切需要基础设施。
“The government is today announcing it intends to sign a memorandum of understanding on the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which would allow Australia to participate as a prospective founding member in negotiations to set up the bank,” the statement said.
声明称，“政府今天宣布计划签署一项关于亚洲基础设施投资银行(Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank)的谅解备忘录。根据该备忘录，澳大利亚将作为意向创始成员国，参与成立银行的谈判。”
Australia said it wanted to ensure the board of directors had authority over crucial investment decisions, and that ”no one country,” a reference to China, controls the bank.
澳大利亚表示，它希望保证董事会能享有关键投资的决定权，“没有哪个国家”——这里指的是中国——能控制亚投行。
The decision to join the bank is an about-face for the government, which, with South Korea, agreed to go along with the Obama administration’s requests last year that major Asian allies stay aloof from the bank.
加入亚投行的决定对于澳大利亚政府而言是个大转变。此前，澳大利亚与韩国一致同意遵循奥巴马政府去年的要求，即美国主要的亚洲盟友都要与该银行保持距离。
The Obama administration publicly criticized Britain for joining earlier this month, saying it was a sign of “accommodation” with China.
本月初，奥巴马政府公开对英国加入亚投行的决定表示了批评，称这是“一贯迎合”中国的一个迹象。
But when Britain and then France, Italy and Germany announced plans to join the bank this month, Australia, which counts China as its biggest trading partner, came under increased pressure to sign on.
然而，当英国，之后是法国、意大利和德国本月宣布计划加入亚投行时，一向把中国视为最大贸易伙伴的澳大利亚，也面临着越来越大的加入该银行的压力。
Another major trading partner with China, South Korea, said last week it would join the Beijing-based bank.
中国的另一个重要贸易伙伴韩国上周也表示，它将加入这个总部设在北京的银行。
Washington eased its opposition slightly as members of the G20 group of advanced economies joined the bank, saying last week that it would encourage the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to cooperate with the new institution.
随着由发达经济体组成的二十国集团(G20)的成员国纷纷加入亚投行，华盛顿也稍稍缓和了它的反对态度。华盛顿上周声称，它将鼓励世界银行(World Bank)及亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)与这个新机构展开合作。
A chief justification for the new bank is the failure of the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, which is based in Manila and led by Japan, to keep up with the huge needs for roads, rail and power in large areas of fast-developing Asia.
设立新银行的主要理由是，世界银行(World Bank)和亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)没能满足快速发展的亚洲地区对道路、铁路和电力的巨大需求。
Japan, China’s biggest competitor in Asia, remains outside the bank, although the Japanese finance minister, Taro Aso, who leads a faction inside the government in favor of joining, said Tokyo would consider entering talks about membership.
日本作为中国在亚洲地区最大的竞争对手，尚未加入该银行。不过日本财务大臣麻生太郎(Taro Aso)表示，东京方面将会考虑就加入亚投行开展磋商。在政府内部，以麻生太郎为首的一个派系支持加入该银行。
In a speech at the annual Boao Forum for Asia in southern China on Saturday, President Xi Jinping of China said the new bank would supplement the work of the World Bank and other international financial institutions.
周六，中国国家主席习近平在中国南部参加博鳌亚洲论坛(Boao Forum for Asia)时发表演讲表示，亚投行将会补充世界银行和其他国际金融机构的工作。
“Being a big country means shouldering greater responsibilities for the region, as opposed to seeking greater monopoly over regional and world affairs,” Mr. Xi told the forum.
习近平在该论坛上表示，“作为大国，意味着对地区和世界和平与发展的更大责任，而不是对地区和国际事务的更大垄断。”
Among Washington’s main objections to the China-led bank have been concerns that it would seek to undermine the authority of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, established after World War II with the United States in the leadership.
华盛顿之所以反对这个由中国牵头设立的银行，主要原因是担心中国寻求削弱世界银行及国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的权威。这些机构是在二战结束后，由美国牵头建立的。
The administration has also expressed concerns that, given China’s record on the environment and lack of transparency, the new bank would not meet the high standards of existing institutions. But the Chinese have retorted that bureaucracy at the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank has slowed those institutions’ capacity to meet demand.
美国政府还表示，鉴于中国在环境方面的记录及透明度的缺乏，他们担心新银行无法达到现有机构的高标准。但中国反驳称，世界银行和亚洲开发银行的官僚主义，影响了这些机构满足需求的能力。
Nearly 40 countries have said they would join the new bank. The Chinese set a deadline for the end of March for founding members to join.
大约有40个国家表示，它们将加入亚投行。中国将3月底设为接受创始成员国申请的截止日期。