Former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on Wednesday pulled off one of the most sensational political comebacks in the country's history, ousting in a party vote the woman who replaced him as leader of the Labor Party in a 2010 party coup, Prime Minister Julia Gillard.
澳大利亚前总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)周三完成了该国历史上最具轰动性的一次政治复出。他在一次党内投票中击败了总理茱莉亚·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)，而在2010年的一次党内政变中，这名女子曾取代他成为澳大利亚工党(Labor Party)领袖。
The victory by Mr. Rudd in a closed-door vote late Wednesday paves the way for an end to the rocky tenure of Ms. Gillard, who had called the surprise vote in an effort to head off a challenge from his backers. Much of the momentum to reinstate Mr. Rudd came from a steady drumbeat of polls showing that the party under Ms. Gillard was almost certain to face a catastrophic loss in elections to be held in September.
在周三的闭门投票中，陆克文获胜，为结束吉拉德的困难重重的总理任期铺平了道路。是吉拉德召集了这次出人意料的投票，以防止陆克文支持者的挑战。民调持续显示，在吉拉德的领导下，该党几乎肯定会在9月份举行的选举中面临灾难性失败。这种民调结果是让陆克文复出的动力。
The Labor Party has been in power since 2007.
工党自从2007年以来一直在执政。
Ms. Gillard became Australia’s first female prime minister in a 2010 party coup that ousted Mr. Rudd, who was derided during his tenure for an authoritarian leadership style. But she has seen her poll ratings plummet since announcing in January, unusually early, that federal elections would be held in September.
在2010的一次党内政变中，因为独裁领导方式而被诟病的陆克文下台，吉拉德成为澳大利亚首位女总理。但是，自从她在1月比通常要早地宣布，9月将举行联邦选举以来，她发现自己的民调支持率直线下降。
Ultimately, Ms. Gillard was never able to fully cement her position as leader, owing in part to the manner in which she came to power. She also faced a relentless political opposition.
最终，吉拉德从未能完全巩固其领导地位，部分是由于她上台的方式。她也面对着毫不留情的政坛反对力量。
Ms. Gillard’s government passed a range of prominent legislation during her tenure, most of which was popular.  But one notably unpopular policy was the establishment in 2011 of the second-largest emissions trading scheme in the  world, after the European Union. That policy drew withering attacks from the opposition, which accused her of flip-flopping on the issue after she promised not to enact it, and proved unpopular with an electorate that became worried it would lead to increased energy costs.
在吉拉德的任期内，她的政府通过了一系列的重要法律，多数都很受欢迎。但是一项特别不受欢迎的政策是，2011年设立了仅次于欧盟(European Union)的全球第二大的碳排放交易体系。这项政策受到了反对派的猛烈攻击，指责她在这个问题上出尔反尔，她曾承诺不制定碳排放交易法律。选民也不喜欢该法律，他们担心这将使能源价格上升。
Mr. Rudd paid tribute to Ms. Gillard’s achievements during a late-night news conference in which he promised to end the politics of division that have repeatedly left the government paralyzed. “In recent years, politics has failed the Australian people. There has been too much negativity around,” he told reporters. “All this must stop.”
在深夜的新闻发布会上，陆克文称赞了吉拉德的成就。他也承诺要终止再三让政府瘫痪的搞分裂的政治。他告诉记者说，“近几年，政治令澳大利亚人民失望，有太多负面的东西。这一切必须停止。”
Ms. Gillard congratulated Mr. Rudd on his victory and thanked the Australian people for the “truly humbling” experience of serving them. Only when she spoke about the very public travails of being the country's first female prime minister did Ms. Gillard briefly appear choked with emotion. “The reaction to being the first female prime minister does not explain everything about my prime ministership, nor does it explain nothing about my prime ministership,” she told reporters.
吉拉德恭喜陆克文获胜，并且感谢澳大利亚人民给她提供了为他们服务的“真正令人谦虚”的经历。只是当她提到她作为该国首位女总理所经历的艰辛时，吉拉德才短暂的显得情绪激动而哽咽。她对记者说，“对作为首位女总理的反应，不能解释我总理任期内的所有事情，但不是不能解释我总理任期内的某些事情。”
Despite Mr. Rudd’s comfortable victory within his own party by a margin of 57-45, he is not automatically assured of becoming the new prime minister. It was unclear whether he had enough support from the independent lawmakers whose backing allowed Ms. Gillard to form a government following Labor’s disappointing showing in the last elections.
尽管陆克文在自己党内以57对45票轻松获得胜利，但是并不一定就必然能当选新总理。现在还不清楚他是否有来自独立立法者的足够支持。这些立法者的支持，使得工党在上次的选举中表现令人失望之后，吉拉德仍能组建政府。
Ms. Gillard’s fate seemed to be sealed Wednesday when, just moments before the party vote was to be held, a Labor Party power broker, Bill Shorten, known as one of the “faceless men” who orchestrated the previous coup that ousted Mr. Rudd in favor of Ms. Gillard, told reporters that he would be swinging his votes behind Mr. Rudd in an effort to salvage the party’s chances in the September election.
吉拉德的命运似乎周三已定。当时，就在党内投票即将开始前几分钟，工党权力掮客比尔·肖特(Bill Shorten)告诉记者说，他会为支持陆克文拉选票，为的是挽救工党在9月大选中获胜的机会。肖特是被称为“无面者”的党内人士之一，上次，这些人上演了把陆克文赶下了台的政变，推出了吉拉德。
Ms. Gillard has led a tenuous minority government since her parliamentary majority was diminished in the 2010 elections. Although she beat back two leadership challenges from Mr. Rudd, she has since slid in the polls against Tony Abbott, the leader of the opposition Liberal-National coalition.
自从她所在的政党在2010年的选举中失去了议会多数以后，吉拉德领导着一个牵强的少数派政府。尽管她曾击退了陆克文对其领导地位的两次挑战，但是，与反对派自由党-民族党联盟(Liberal-National coalition)领袖托尼·艾伯特(Tony Abbott)相比，她的支持率在民调中下滑。
Mr. Abbott, who polls suggest could secure a large parliamentary majority in the upcoming elections, assailed Ms. Gillard’s party as dysfunctional and urged her to call a snap election to end the political impasse. He warned voters that a change in Labor’s leadership would not translate into policy changes.
民调显示，艾伯特的联盟会在即将来临的选举中获得议会中的多数席位。他攻击吉拉德的政党，称其功能失常，并敦促她提前召集选举，以终止政治僵局。他警告选民说，工党领导层的变化不会带来政策的改变。
“The Labor Party may well change its leader, but it doesn’t matter who leads the Labor Party,” he told reporters in the capital, Canberra. “It will still be much the same government with much the same policies.”
他在首都堪培拉告诉记者说，“工党可能会改变其领袖，但是谁领导工党并不重要。仍然是那个同样的政府，仍然是那些同样的政策。”