It has been a long time since a prince toppled a prime minister.
很久没有出现过亲王推翻总理的事情了。
But this is what could happen in Australia. When the adamantly monarchist prime minister, Tony Abbott, announced that he was going to make the heavily titled, gaffe-prone Prince Philip a knight, the nation laughed — then groaned. And now, as a direct result of his action, his party will be voting this Monday to decide whether it should be allowed to vote for another leader.
但这一幕可能会在澳大利亚上演。当坚定拥护君主制的总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)宣布，将授予各种头衔加身、常常出丑的菲利普亲王(Prince Philip)骑士头衔时，整个国家都笑了出来，继而发出了抱怨声。眼下，阿博特这一举动导致的直接后果是，他所在的政党将于周一举行投票，决定是否应该允许该党重新选举领导人。
It was not that Mr. Abbott’s ardent affection for the royals was a surprise. He previously served as executive director of Australians for Constitutional Monarchy and at his signing in, he swore allegiance to the queen, unlike his two predecessors, Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd.
阿博特对王室成员的热情并不令人惊讶。他之前曾是澳大利亚君主立宪制联盟(Australians for Constitutional Monarchy)的总干事，并且不同于其前任茱莉亚·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)和陆克文(Kevin Rudd)，阿博特在就职时曾宣誓效忠于女王。
One of the first things he did after becoming prime minister was to try to find a copy of a portrait of a sensuous, curvy Queen Elizabeth II in a yellow evening dress, from 1954. Prints of this portrait, painted to mark a wildly successful royal tour the year after her coronation, hung in thousands of schools, scout halls and churches for decades; she was adored and held in awe. But in the 1970s these images began slowly vanishing, seen as relics of a dated, less proud Australia. After the British-born Mr. Abbott hung the portrait with pride in his office in Parliament House, one staffer grumbled to a reporter: “Next they’ll be making us curtsy when he comes into the building.”
上台后，他最先做的一件事是尝试找到伊丽莎白女王二世(Queen Elizabeth II)的一幅画像。那幅画像完成于1954年，画像中身着黄色裙装的伊丽莎白二世性感婀娜。当时作这幅画是为了庆祝她在加冕第二年的一次大获成功的出访。在数十年的时间里，这幅画被悬挂在数千所学校、童子军礼堂和教堂里。人们对画中的英女王心怀崇拜和敬畏。但上世纪70年代，这些画慢慢消失了。它们被认为是那个落后的、不再那么值得一提的澳大利亚的残留物。在出生于英国的阿博特自豪地将那幅画挂在自己位于国会大厦的办公室后，一名工作人员向记者抱怨说：“接下来，他们该让我们在他走进大楼的时候屈膝行礼了。”
It was not long before Mr. Abbott — astonishingly — decided to reinstate the British honors system of knights and dames. In an attempt to diminish criticism that might ensue, the first dame he appointed was the then-governor general, Quentin Bryce, who was in favor of moving from the country’s current constitutional monarchy to a republican form of government.
令人惊讶的是，不久后，阿博特决定恢复英国的“爵士与夫人”制度。为了减少可能会遭到的指责，他将首个夫人头衔授给了时任总督的昆汀·布莱斯(Quentin Bryce)。布莱斯赞成废除该国现行的君主立宪制，成立共和制政府。
But this year, when he unilaterally decided to knight the queen’s husband, Prince Philip, on Australia Day, when Australians are honored for services to the community, the howls of laughter and near-universal scorn exposed the weaknesses of a leader who had failed to consult his colleagues and read the public mood. For months, he has been forced to dump, tweak or backtrack on policies in key areas like health, parental leave and education because the opposition was much stronger than he had anticipated.
但今年，在表彰有社区服务贡献的澳大利亚民众的澳大利亚日(Australia Day)，阿博特单方面决定封女王的丈夫菲利普亲王为骑士时，高声的嘲笑和几乎清一色的鄙视，暴露了一名未能与同僚商议、体察公众情绪的领导人的脆弱。数月来，他被迫放弃、调整或违背在卫生、育婴假和教育等关键领域的政策，因为反对的声音比他预想的大很多。
Now Mr. Abbott had gone too far. Not only was the prince not Australian, but all the rousing stories of those locals who were honored that day were instantly buried under mounds of commentary attempting to fathom his decision. Even Rupert Murdoch weighed in, tweeting: “Abbott knighthood a joke and embarrassment. Time to scrap all honours everywhere, including UK.”
这一次阿博特太过头了。不仅这名亲王不是澳大利亚人，而且当天所有获得表彰的澳大利亚人的动人故事，都被众人抛在脑后，大家都想更多地了解他的这一决定。就连鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)都加入了进来，他发推文说：“阿博特恢复骑士头衔是个笑话，令人难堪。是时候在世界各地废除荣誉头衔了，包括英国。”
The prime minister dismissed the furor with a cricketing term: it was a “captain’s call,” made just because he wanted to do it. He insisted that the duke of Edinburgh had been “a great servant of Australia.”
阿博特不理会外界的愤怒，并用了一个板球术语：这是一个“队长决定”，仅仅因为他想这么做。他坚持说爱丁堡公爵一直是“了不起的澳大利亚公仆”。
Yet we were quickly reminded of the prince’s often insensitive and occasionally racist indiscretions: when he told the president of Nigeria, who was clad in national dress: “You look like you’re ready for bed!” and said to a female solicitor: “I thought it was against the law for a woman to solicit.” He also asked an Aboriginal leader in 2002 if “you still throw spears at each other.” Prince Philip has too often seemed a parody of a relic.
然而，我们很快就想起了这位亲王时常愣头愣脑、偶尔有种族主义的不当言行。他曾对身着民族服饰的尼日利亚总统说：“你看上去像是准备睡觉了！”，还对一名女律师说：“我还以为女人拉客(solicit)是违法的呢。”2002年时，他问一名土著领袖“你们还朝对方扔矛吗”。很多时候，菲利普亲王像是在戏仿一个前朝遗老。
Only 14 percent of Australians agreed with the knighting, and many of Mr. Abbott’s colleagues were dismayed. Some started to speak openly about their discontent. Just a few days after Australia Day, Mr. Abbott’s Liberal National Party was soundly thrashed by the Australian Labour Party in the Queensland election.
只有14%的澳大利亚人同意恢复骑士头衔，而阿博特的许多同僚对此颇感诧异。一些人开始谈及自己的不满。澳大利亚日过去没几天，在昆士兰的选举中，澳大利亚工党(Labor Party)大败阿博特所在的自由国家党(Liberal National Party)。
The M.P. calling for the leadership vote, Luke Simpkins, said the knighting was the “final proof of a disconnection with the people.”
要求进行党魁选举的下议院议员卢克·辛普金斯(Luke Simpkins)称，加封骑士是“脱离民众的最后一个证据”。
Which was odd, because when it came to the prime minister’s royal ardor, at first it looked as though the times suited him. It seemed as if the entire country was tilting back to the Windsor clan in Britain, partly because of the allure of “Will and Kate” and their chubby infant.
这么说很奇怪，因为说到阿博特对王室的热情时，乍一看似乎时机对他有利。似乎全国都重新倾心于英国的温莎家族，这在一定程度上是因为“威尔和凯特”夫妇和他们胖嘟嘟的宝宝的吸引力。
After all, last year, polls recorded a sharp dip in support for an Australian republic, especially among the young and the old. When Prince Harry came to visit Australia for the first time, Mr. Abbott’s face almost split from grinning when he declared, “today everyone feels like a monarchist.”
毕竟去年的民调显示，支持澳大利亚实行共和政体的人显著减少，特别是在年轻人和老人中间。当哈里王子(Prince Harry)首次访问澳大利亚时，阿博特宣布“今天，所有人都感觉像是君主主义者”，脸都笑开了花。
It seemed as if the country’s top lawyers agreed with him, too. In 2013, Queensland’s barristers voted to reinstate the title of queen’s counsel for the most elite of their ranks, believing it to have more cachet in the region than the title that had replaced it — senior counsel. In February last year, the state of Victoria decided that its barristers could choose that title of queen’s counsel, but that it wasn’t required.
该国的顶尖律师似乎也同意他的意见。2013年，昆士兰的律师投票决定，恢复“御用大律师”这个最高阶头衔，因为他们认为在该地区，这个头衔比之前的“资深大律师”更有威望。去年2月，维多利亚州决定，该州的律师可以选择御用大律师这一头衔，但并不要求必须这么做。
But despite talk of a national trend, Australia is not going royal. And the prime minister’s overestimation of our attachment to the inhabitants of Windsor Castle has cost him dearly.
尽管有人说这是一种全国性的趋势，但澳大利亚人没有打算效忠王室。阿博特高估了我们对温莎城堡主人的依恋，这让他付出了惨重的代价。
His future now looks perilous. Backbenchers have openly criticized him. A former Liberal premier in Victoria, Jeff Kennett, said Mr. Abbott’s leadership was “terminal,” and the influential former assistant treasurer Arthur Sinodinos said his support for the prime minister was “not unconditional.”
阿博特的未来现在看起来岌岌可危。下议员们已经公开批评他了。维多利亚州的前州长、自由党人杰夫·肯尼特(Jeff Kennett)说，阿博特的任期“走到了尽头”。而颇有影响力的前助理财政部长阿瑟·赛诺迪诺斯(Arthur Sinodinos)说，他对总理的支持“不是无条件的”。
A chastened Tony Abbott publicly vowed to listen more, and declared that the choice of honors recipients would now rest solely with the Council for the Order of Australia.
历经磨难的托尼·阿博特已经公开表示将听取更多人的意见，并宣布，勋章获得者的人选将完全由澳大利亚勋章委员会(Council for the Order of Australia)决定。
It is unclear whether either of his most obvious rivals — Malcolm Turnbull, the communications minister, and Julie Bishop, the foreign minister — has the numbers to depose their leader (although some of his political colleagues have told me privately that Mr. Turnbull has been forcefully putting his case to them).
目前尚不清楚他最显而易见的竞争对手——交通部长马尔科姆 ·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull)和外交部长朱莉·毕晓普(Julie Bishop)——能否获得足够的支持来罢免他们的领导人（不过一些政界同僚私下里告诉我，特恩布尔一直在大力向他们宣传自己的想法）。