KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The Australia Maritime Safety Authority announced on Friday morning that it was moving the search area for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 nearly 700 miles to the northeast.
马来西亚吉隆坡——澳大利亚海事安全局(Australia Maritime Safety Authority)周五上午宣布，他们准备把马航370次班机的搜索区域往东北方向移动近700英里（约合1100公里）。
The authority said it was acting after further analysis of radar data from when the plane turned over the South China Sea and flew back over Peninsular Malaysia showed that the aircraft was moving faster than previously estimated and so would have used more fuel.
海事安全局表示，他们之所以改变搜索区域，是因为对飞机在南海上空调头飞越马来西亚半岛时的雷达数据所做的进一步分析显示，飞机的移动速度比之前估计的要快，因此会消耗更多燃油。
That in turn would mean that the aircraft could have run out of fuel sooner as it flew out over the southern Indian Ocean, the Australian authority said.
海事安全局表示，由此看来，飞机在南印度洋上空飞行时耗尽燃油的时间可能会更早。
The revision of the search area, based on further analysis by an international team of experts working with Malaysian officials, means that Australia is redirecting the search far from the floating objects seen in the previous search area in satellite images released by Australia, China and the European satellite launch company Airbus Defense and Space.
搜索区域的调整意味着，澳大利亚正在重新部署搜索工作，新的搜索区域远离那些出现在先前搜索区域的漂浮物，先前的搜索区域是根据澳大利亚、中国及欧洲卫星发射公司欧洲航空防务及航天公司(Airbus Defense and Space)公布的卫星图像确定的。此次调整依据的是国际专家团队和马来西亚官员联手做出的进一步分析。
Those objects were in or very near the previous search area, as satellite operators had trained their cameras there.
当卫星运营机构将摄像机对准先前的搜索区域时，那些漂浮物还在那片区域当中，或是离那片区域很近。
The new search area may make the job a little easier for maritime surveillance crews aboard aircraft and ships. The new zone is closer to Perth, Australia, than the previous zone, shortening the flight by up to an hour in each direction and so allowing air crews to spend more time actually looking for debris from Flight 370.
新的搜索区域可能会略微降低飞机和船只上的海面监控人员的工作难度。与先前的搜索区域相比，新区域离澳大利亚珀斯更近，飞过去和飞回来的时间都比以前短了一个小时，机组人员可以把更多的时间用于实际寻找370航班残骸的工作。
“Weather conditions have improved in the area and 10 aircraft are tasked for today’s search,” the Australian authority said.
“该区域的天气情况已经好转，今天有10架飞机参与搜寻，”海事安全局称。
“This is a credible new lead and will be thoroughly investigated today,” Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia said in a statement on Friday morning, adding that 10 aircraft, six vessels and various satellites would focus on the new search area.
“这是一条可信的新线索，今天就能得到彻底调查，”澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)在周五早上发布的一份声明中说。他补充说，将会有10架飞机、6艘船和多颗卫星集中探查新的搜索区域。