In an Australian news broadcast that seems to have resonated with Americans, a political journalist delivered a scathing evaluation of President Trump’s performance last week at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Hamburg, Germany.
一则澳大利亚新闻的播放似乎引起了美国人的共鸣，节目中一位政治记者对特朗普总统在上周德国汉堡的20国集团峰会（Group of 20 ，简称G20）中的表现做出了尖刻的评价。
The journalist, Chris Uhlmann, said in a segment originally broadcast on the program “Insiders,” that Mr. Trump was an “uneasy, lonely, awkward figure” at the meeting and that the president “has no desire and no capacity to lead the world.”
这位名叫克里斯·乌尔曼(Chris Uhlmann)的记者在最初于“内情”(Insiders)节目中播出的一个片段里表示，特朗普在会议上是一个“不安、孤独、尴尬的人物”，他“没有领导世界的愿望和能力”。
The video immediately took hold on social media, and by Sunday morning had been viewed more than a million times on Twitter and Facebook — further emphasizing how viral videos, once reserved for cute kitties and humorous mishaps, have become increasingly political, and that interest in these gatherings of world leaders is no longer just for policy wonks.
这段视频迅速攻占了社交媒体，周日早上，在Twitter和Facebook上被观看了超过一百万次——这进一步表明，一度被视为只针对可爱小猫和幽默事故的网红视频，如今变得越来越有政治色彩；也表明对世界领导人的这些聚会感兴趣的不再只有政策专家。
On the Facebook page for Occupy Democrats, a leftist advocacy group, the video has received nearly one million views.
在左派倡导组织“占领民主党”(Occupy Democrats)的Facebook页面上，该视频已被观看近百万次。
Another viral moment from the gathering, this one a GIF, appears to show Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who hosted this year’s event, rolling her eyes at President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. One tweet alone — accompanied by the words “Mansplaining, G20 style” — has about 82,000 retweets and 166,0000 likes.
这次会议上还有一个时刻也在网上广为传播，是一个GIF动画，上面似乎是主持今年会议的德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)冲着俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)翻白眼。仅仅这样一条图片推文——配有文字“G20式男人说教”——就得到了大约8.2万次转发和16.6万次点赞。
While Google data on this year’s G-20 conference is still being calculated, search interest in the United States appears to have surged compared with past years; interest in the G-20 had been weak since 2008.
虽然关于今年G20会议的谷歌(Google)搜索数据仍在计算中，但比起往年，美国的搜索兴趣似乎有所增长；此前，自2008年以来，对G20的兴趣一直不强。
And Mr. Trump spurred more interest in the conference as it approached, dominating the G-20 in Google queries in the run-up to the gathering.
在会议前夕，特朗普引起了更多关注，在会议预备到召开阶段，他的名字在谷歌关于G20会议的查询中占主导地位。
As the event unfolded, Mr. Trump’s name continued to lead global searches in Google, even as queries for other world leaders rose and fell.
随着会议进行，特朗普的名字继续在谷歌的全球搜索中居于领先地位，虽然对其他世界领导人的搜索有上升也有下降。
In part, the uptick is quite likely because Americans are now exposed to foreign perspectives as social streams cross during global summits.
这种增长的部分原因在于，在全球首脑峰会期间，随着社交媒体内容的交叉传播，美国人现在要面对外国人的看法。
In the “Insiders” video, Mr. Uhlmann, the politics editor at the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, the country’s main public broadcaster, assessed Mr. Trump in bold and brash terms. His commentary would be out of line for American journalists, who are supposed to strive for objectivity and to keep opinions to the editorial pages.
在“内情”视频中，澳大利亚主要公共广播机构，澳大利亚广播公司(Australian Broadcasting Corporation)的政治编辑乌尔曼以大胆直接的态度对特朗普做出了评价。对于美国记者来说，这类评论是越过了界限，因为记者应该力争客观，意见看法要留给评论与观点栏目。
“What did we learn?” Mr. Uhlmann asked about Mr. Trump’s stint at the conference. “We learned that Donald Trump has pressed fast forward on the decline of the United States as a global leader.”
“我们学到了什么？”乌尔曼就特朗普在会议上的讲话发问。“我们了解到，唐纳德·特朗普按下了全球领导者美国的衰落快进键。”
In November, another harsh critique of Mr. Trump, also delivered via video, went viral. The Irish Labour senator Aodhan O’Riordain condemned the results of the United States election, calling the then president-elect a “fascist.” It has been viewed 3.3 million times on the senator’s Facebook page alone.
11月份，另一个严厉批评特朗普的视频也在网上大肆传播。爱尔兰工党参议员奥登·奥里亚丁(Aodhan O'Riordain)谴责美国大选的结果，称当时的候任总统是“法西斯主义者”。这个视频已在该参议员的Facebook页面上被观看了330万次。
Domestic leaders like Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, have gained traction by using pointed language toward Mr. Trump as well. She called him “a weak & impotent leader” in a July 6 tweet that was liked more than 54,000 times.
国内领导人，如加利福尼亚民主党众议员马克西姆·沃特斯(Maxine Waters)，也通过发表对特朗普的尖刻言辞获得了关注。她在7月6日的推文中称他为“软弱无能的领袖”，获得了5.4万多个赞。