Wanted: the shirtless reptile-hurlers of Humpty Doo.
通缉：在汉普蒂杜赤膊扔动物的人。
It sounds like a crazy caper in a children’s book. But the police in Australia are serious.
这听上去像是儿童读物中一次疯狂的胡闹。但澳大利亚警方是认真的。
Investigators in the Northern Territory announced on Sunday that they needed the public’s help in identifying four half-naked men who had broken into a school office in the town of Humpty Doo, shattering a window and heaving a few saltwater crocodiles inside.
澳大利亚北领地的调查人员周日宣布，他们需要民众帮忙辨认四名半裸男子。涉事男子闯入汉普蒂杜镇一所学校的办公室。他们打碎了一扇窗户，并把几只咸水鳄鱼扔到了办公室里。
Presumably, investigators also want the answer to that age-old question of crime-solving: Why did you do it?
调查人员大概还想知道破案时会遇到的那个古老问题的答案，他们为什么这么做？
The police released a security camera video of the break-in, which occurred around 5 a.m. on Sunday. The video shows the interior of an unremarkable office: desk, file cabinets, computer. Then the panes of a glass door tremble and crack, and in comes a crocodile, toppling headfirst into the room. The scaly beast is followed by another, and then a third crocodile flops headfirst through the broken glass.
警方公布了一段安全监控视频，上面记录了周日凌晨5点左右发生的这起强行闯入事件。视频上出现了一间普通办公室的内景：桌子、文件柜、电脑。之后，一道玻璃门上的玻璃颤动碎裂，进来了一只鳄鱼。它一头倒在了房间里。紧接着这只浑身鳞甲的动物之后，是另一只鳄鱼。然后，第三只鳄鱼扑通一声穿过打碎的玻璃，一头撞到地上。
The reptilian advance team is followed by human counterparts. A man is seen reaching through the broken glass to open the locked door. He darts in, shirtless but with his face covered, and three more men follow. At first they appear to be searching for something, yanking open drawers and tossing aside papers and equipment.
跟在这支爬行队伍先遣队之后的是人类。视频画面上，一名男子透过打碎的玻璃，摸索着打开了锁着的门。他冲进屋里，上身赤裸，但脸上带有遮盖物。另外三名男子紧随其后。一开始，他们拉开抽屉，把文件和设备扔在一边，似乎是在找什么东西。
Finally, the video shows them grabbing a computer and making their escape, leaving the crocodiles behind to face the music. The reptiles are barely visible on the floor, shuffling around the furniture.
最后，视频显示他们抱着一台电脑逃离了现场，留下鳄鱼去承担后果。这些爬行动物在地上几乎看不见。它们在家具周围爬来爬去。
A school alarm alerted a caretaker, who called the police, according to NT News, which covers the Northern Territory.
关注北领地动态的北领地新闻(NT News)报道称，学校的警报惊动了一名看管人员，后者打电话报警。
The episode happened at Taminmin College, a rural secondary school serving students in grades 7 through 12.
这起事件发生在塔敏敏学院(Taminmin College)。这是一所乡村中学，面向七到十二年级的学生。
The police released little else in the way of descriptions of the suspects, but it appeared likely that investigators would want to talk to anyone in the vicinity who had easy access to crocodiles.
在描述嫌疑人时，警方几乎未透露其他信息，但调查人员看上去可能想和附近可以轻易接触到鳄鱼的所有人谈话。
It was far from clear what the three reptiles — 5-foot-long female saltwater crocodiles, or “salties” — were supposed to accomplish for the intruders. The most plausible guess seemed to be that they were meant to scare off anyone who might have been present in the office at 5 a.m.
完全不清楚闯入者想让这三只爬行动物——都是5英尺（约合1.5米）长的雌性咸水鳄，又叫“咸咸”——起到什么作用。最可信的猜测似乎是，它们是为了吓跑凌晨5点那会儿可能还在办公室里的人。
Arrests, of sorts, were made.
警方实施了某种形式的逮捕。
“Police attended, and managed to, with the aid of a ranger, get the crocodiles in custody, if you like,” Senior Constable David Gregory of the Northern Territory Police told reporters at a news conference.
“可以这么说，警方对鳄鱼采取了措施，并在一名公园管理员的协助下设法把它们关了起来，”北领地警察厅(Northern Territory Police)高级警官戴维·格雷戈里(David Gregory)在新闻发布会上对记者说。
“The ranger that turned up was very concerned for them — they had their mouths taped shut, obviously,” he said. “They’re in very poor shape, they haven’t seen water for a long time, they’re undernourished.”
“来帮忙的管理员非常担心它们，很显然，那些人用胶带把它们的嘴巴捆上了，”他说。“它们的情况非常不好，长时间没见到水，并且营养不良。”
In a photograph distributed by the police, one of the crocodiles appeared to have its mouth clamped shut with a zip tie.
在警方公开的一张照片中，其中一只鳄鱼的嘴巴似乎用束线带捆上了。
The Northern Territory is a vast, sparsely populated area of more than 548,000 square miles, known for its outback desert landscape. Humpty Doo, which had a population of about 8,700 in 2013, is about 20 miles southeast of Darwin, the territory’s capital.
面积超过54.8万平方英里（约合142万平方公里）的北领地幅员辽阔，人烟稀少，因其内陆沙漠景观而闻名。2013年时人口约为8700人的汉普蒂杜坐落在北领地首府达尔文东南方向大约20英里（约合32公里）处。
The Australian newspaper The Age describes Humpty Doo as a way station of sorts for people who commute to Darwin or who pass through on their way to Kakadu National Park, which attracts tourists and scientists.
澳大利亚《时代报》(The Age)称，汉普蒂杜算是往返达尔文，或是前往吸引游客和科学家的卡卡杜国家公园(Kakadu National Park)的人路上会经过的一站。
Some of Humpty Doo’s attractions are of the reptilian variety. Travel guides mention the town’s huge roadside Boxing Crocodile statue and Graeme Gow’s Reptile World, with its collection of hundreds of different species of snake.
汉普蒂杜的部分景点就是关于爬行动物的。导游会提到小镇公路旁边那座巨型拳击鳄鱼雕像和格雷姆·高爬行动物世界(Graeme Gow’s Reptile World)，后者收集了数百种不同种类的蛇。
The last time crocodiles in Humpty Doo made headlines was a year ago, when dozens of the animals’ heads were found in a freezer.
汉普蒂杜的鳄鱼上一次成为热门新闻是在一年前。当时，有人在一个冷冻柜里发现了几十颗鳄鱼头。