SYDNEY, Australia — Australian officials pledged Tuesday to scour the ocean for the black boxes of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 until they were certain that the pingers from the device were no longer working, and they described the task of locating them on the ocean bed as “herculean.”
澳大利亚悉尼——澳大利亚官员周二发誓要继续在海洋中寻找马来西亚航空公司370航班的黑匣子，直到他们确信黑匣子不再发出脉冲信号为止，他们还表示，在洋底定位黑匣子的任务“极为艰巨”。
“There have been no further contacts with any transmission, and we need to continue that for several days, right up to the point at which there’s absolutely no doubt that the pinger batteries will have expired,” Angus Houston, the Australian coordinating the search, said from Pearce Air Force Base.
负责协调搜寻工作的澳大利亚人安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)在皮尔斯空军基地(Pearce Air Force Base)说，“没有进一步接触到任何信号传输，我们需要继续搜索几天，直到对信号发射器的电池耗尽有绝对的把握为止。”
In recent days, pings were picked up by the Australian Navy vessel Ocean Shield and the Chinese ship Haixun 01, which were searching about 1,400 miles northwest of Perth. But since those initial detections, the first on April 5, no subsequent sounds have been picked up.
最近几天，在位于珀斯西北、距离该市约2200公里的海域进行搜寻的过程中，澳大利亚海军的“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)军舰和中国的“海巡01”轮都探测到了脉冲信号。但是，在探测到最初信号之后，没有再探测到后续信号，首次探测到信号是在4月5日。
Mr. Houston said a submarine would not be deployed unless further sounds were detected. Ocean Shield is at the northern end of the defined search area, and Haixun 01 is in the south. The search zone, about 30,000 square miles, has been reduced from the 90,000 square miles being searched Monday. Commanders try to maintain distance between the vessels to assure a quiet environment that limits the chances of false feedback.
休斯顿表示，在没有探测到进一步信号之前，不会出动潜水艇。“海盾号”的位置在划定的搜索区域的最北端，而“海巡01”轮则在南边。这个缩小后的搜索区的面积约为7.8万平方公里，周一搜索的区域面积约为23万平方公里。指挥人员试图让搜寻船只保持距离，以确保一个安静的环境，降低接受到错误反馈的几率。
David Johnston, the minister of defense for Australia, described the challenging task ahead.
澳大利亚国防部长戴维·约翰斯顿(David Johnston)描述了未来极具挑战的任务。
“This is an herculean task,” Mr. Johnston said. “It is over a very, very wide area. The water is extremely deep.”
他说，“这是一项极为艰巨的任务。搜寻区很大很大。海水极深。”
The plane disappeared March 8 on a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing with 239 passengers and crew members on board.
这架马航班机是在3月8日失踪的，当时它正在执行从马来西亚吉隆坡到北京的例行飞行，机上载有239名乘客和机组人员。
On Monday, Mr. Houston reported that Ocean Shield had detected signals on two distinct occasions, one lasting two hours and 20 minutes and the second lasting 13 minutes, using a towed ping locator. The sounds were consistent with flight data and cockpit voice recorders and were described as the best lead that searchers had had as to where Malaysia Airlines plane may have disappeared into the ocean. There has been no confirmation that the signals were from the jet, and no debris identified as being from Flight 370 has been collected from the sea.
周一，休斯顿报告说，“海盾号”使用的拖曳式声波探测器在两个不同的时间检测到信号，第一次信号持续了2小时20分钟，第二次探测到的信号持续了13分钟。探测到的声音与飞机的数据记录仪和驾驶舱录音仪发出的一致，被认为是搜寻者所掌握的、有关这架马来西亚班机可能在哪里坠入大洋的最好线索。但还未能核实这些信号来自失踪的飞机，也没有从海上打捞到任何被确认是属于马航370的碎片。
Finding debris on the ocean surface, or detecting new acoustic transmissions, would allow searchers to significantly narrow the area on the ocean floor where wreckage might be found. Mr. Houston described the small submersible they would use as having a very narrow field of vision, adding, “It’s literally crawling along the bottom of the ocean.”
如果能在洋面找到碎片，或探测到新的声音信号传输，则可能会让搜寻者极大地缩小需要搜索的洋底区域，也就是可能找到飞机残骸的区域。休斯顿的描述称，他们将会使用的那种小型潜水装置的视野很窄，他说，“那是名副其实地在洋底爬行。”
“If we go down there now and do the visual search, it will take many, many, many days, because it’s very slow, very painstaking work to scour the ocean floor, and of course the depths are very deep, and it’s very challenging,” Mr. Houston said. The joint agency coordination center estimates the water depth to be about 16,000 feet.
休斯顿说，“如果我们现在下去做视觉搜寻，要花很多很多天的时间，因为这种搜寻很慢，在洋底进行搜索是非常细致的工作，当然，深度也非常深，极具挑战性。”搜寻工作联合协调中心估计，该区域水深5000米左右。
Commander William J. Marks, a spokesman for the United States Navy’s Seventh Fleet, said Australian and American crews were “working around the clock in a deliberate and methodical manner” to reacquire the signal, which would be emitted continuously if it came from a black box. He said that with a single pass, the signal could be located within a two-mile zone, but that with several passes, and a continuous signal, the beacon could be triangulated to within a couple of hundred yards.
美国第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)发言人威廉·J·马克斯中校(William J. Marks)说，澳大利亚和美国的搜寻人员为了再次获得信号，“正在仔细且有条不紊地昼夜工作，”如果信号是黑匣子发出的话，那会是持续的。他说，用一次经过所得到的信号，可将信号定位在约3公里的范围内，但用几次经过和持续信号，可用三角测量法将信号发射器的位置确定在几百米以内的范围。
Searchers are also concerned that the locator devices may soon stop emitting noises. The search is now at Day 32, Mr. Johnston said, adding that the life of the batteries in the devices — normally around 30 days — could be expected to fade at any time. But signal frequency did not point to life expectancy. Other factors, including water pressure, could affect the signal.
搜寻人员还担心定位设备可能很快会停止发送声音信号。约翰斯顿说，搜寻工作已进入第32天，他还说，设备上电池的寿命正常情况下是30天左右，信号在任何时候都有可能会停止。但是信号发送的频率与电池的寿命无关。其他因素，比如水压，可能会影响信号。
Mr. Houston expressed hope that progress was being made with the detection of the pings.
休斯顿表示，由于探测到了脉冲信号，搜寻工作有望取得进展。
“They sounded like, as I said yesterday, an emergency locator beacon,” he said. “That’s why we’re so excited about it. We’re very hopeful that we will find further evidence which will confirm the aircraft is in that location.”
他说，“就像我昨天说的，它们听上去像是一个紧急定位器发出的。正因为如此，我们才这么激动。将找到进一步的证据，确认飞机就在那个位置，对此我们充满希望。”
But he added that without the discovery of any wreckage, there remains a long way to go.
但是他补充道，在没有发现任何残骸的情况下，还有很长的路要走。