SYDNEY, Australia — The search for a missing Malaysian jet in waters off Australia’s western coast will continue as planned, Australia’s prime minister said on Thursday, hours after his Malaysian counterpart announced that a wing part found thousands of miles away was the first confirmed debris from the Boeing 777.
澳大利亚悉尼——澳大利亚总理周四表示，在澳大利亚西海岸以外的海域搜寻失踪马航客机的工作将继续依计划进行。几小时前，马来西亚总理刚刚宣布，在离搜索区域数千英里之外的地方发现的一块机翼残骸，已经被首次确认来自那架失踪的波音777。
Tony Abbott, the Australian leader, said the fact that a piece of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 had turned up on Réunion, a French island near Madagascar, fit investigators’ theory that the plane had crashed in the area where his country has been leading a seabed search. Experts have said that ocean currents could have carried debris to Réunion from that area.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)表示，在靠近马达加斯加的法属留尼旺岛发现马航MH370残片的事实，与调查人员之前的推测相符，即这架飞机是在澳大利亚一直组织海底搜寻的海域坠毁。专家表示，可能是洋流把飞机残片从那一海域带到了留尼旺岛。
“What we have found in the western Indian Ocean does seem to indicate the plane did come down more or less where we thought it did,” Mr. Abbott told reporters in Geelong, Australia. “And it suggests that for the first time we might be a little bit closer to solving this baffling mystery.”
“我们此前在西印度洋的发现似乎显示，飞机的确差不多是从我们之前推测的地方坠落，”阿博特在澳大利亚吉朗市对记者说道。“它表明，我们首次离解开这个令人困惑的谜团，更近了一点。”
Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak, said early Thursday morning that the object found last week on Réunion — which experts said was a wing part called a flaperon — had been “conclusively confirmed” to be from Flight 370, which disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 people aboard.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)周四早上表示，上周在留尼旺岛发现的物体已被“确凿地证实”来自2014年3月8日携机上239人失踪的马航MH370。专家表示，这个物体是一个名为襟副翼的机翼组件。
Officials in France, where the part is being examined, were somewhat less definitive at a news conference in Paris, with one saying there were “very strong presumptions” that it was from the Malaysian jet.
法国正在对这个机翼残片进行分析。在巴黎举行的一个新闻发布会上，几位法国官员则对这个残片表现得没有那么确定。其中一位官员表示，它来自那架马来西亚飞机是一个“非常有力的假设”。
While Australia leads the undersea search for the plane, Malaysia is conducting the broader investigation into its disappearance, which remains a mystery. Flight 370 stopped communicating with ground controllers not long after leaving Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, for Beijing.
在澳大利亚牵头进行海底搜寻的同时，马来西亚正在就依然没有解开的飞机失踪之谜开展更大范围的调查。当时，飞往北京的马航MH370，在离开马来西亚首都吉隆坡之后不多久，就停止了与地面空管人员的通讯。
According to radar data and satellite signals, it veered off course less than an hour into the flight, heading west across the Malay Peninsula and then flying south for several hours. Investigators believe it ran out of fuel and crashed in the southern Indian Ocean.
雷达数据和卫星信号显示，飞机起飞不到一个小时，就偏离了航线，朝西穿越了马来半岛，然后朝南飞行了几个小时。调查人员认为，在燃料耗尽之后，它坠入了南印度洋。
Mr. Abbott said the search of ocean floor in that area, which after 10 months has yet to turn up any debris from the plane, would continue. “We owe it to the hundreds of millions of people who use our skies,” he said.
已经进行了10个月的澳大利亚以西海域海底搜寻工作目前还没有发现任何飞机残骸。阿博特表示，这一搜寻工作还会继续进行。“这是对数以亿计飞越我国领空的人们应尽的义务，”他说。
David Griffin, an Australian scientist who has mapped ocean currents in the area, said on Thursday that he believed more debris from Flight 370 could wash up on Madagascar, the much larger island to the west of Réunion.
曾为这一海域绘制洋流图的澳大利亚科学家大卫·格里芬(David Griffin)周四表示，他相信可能有更多马航MH370的残骸被冲上了马达加斯加岛，它是位于留尼旺岛以西、比后者大得多的一个岛屿。
“There could be a very large amount of debris floating, or a very small amount,” said Mr. Griffin, who is with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Australia. “I am slightly surprised that something turned up at Réunion, rather than Madagascar, because Madagascar is so much bigger.”
“那里可能有很多的残骸漂浮，也或者很少，”隶属澳大利亚联邦科学与工业研究组织(Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization)的格里芬说道。“让我感觉有点意外的是，它会出现在留尼旺岛，而不是马达加斯加，因为马达加斯加要大得多。”