SYDNEY, Australia — Tan Falconer stood in the crowd milling outside the Sanctuary Hotel, a classic Sydney pub, cigarette in one hand. With the other, he greeted a stream of fashionable friends — men in tight shirts with hair smoothly buzzed on the sides, women with highlights and heavily drawn brows.
澳大利亚悉尼——坦·福尔克纳(Tan Falconer)站在悉尼经典酒吧庇护旅馆(Sanctuary Hotel)门外徘徊的人群中，一只手拿着香烟。另一只手在跟一群时髦的朋友打招呼——男人们穿着紧身恤，两侧的头发剃得干干净净，女人们头发做了挑染，眉毛画得很浓。
Nearly everyone there was part of an emerging cross-cultural scene centered on an Asian-Australian identity: electronic music, athleisure fashion and social media savvy.
那里的几乎每一个人，都是以亚裔澳大利亚群体为中心的新兴跨文化风貌的一部分：电子音乐，运动休闲服装和社交媒体的熟练使用。
They often call themselves the “little girls” and “little boys” of Sydney and Melbourne, or L.G.s and L.B.s for short.
他们经常称自己为悉尼和墨尔本的“小女孩”和“小男孩”，简称LG和LB。
“We feel comfortable and more at ease when we share the same issues,” said Mr. Falconer, 23, who is of Thai-Chinese heritage and a project manager at a construction and engineering firm. “We come together to drink and laugh it off.”
“当我们分享这些相同的话题时，我们感觉舒服，更自在，”23岁的福尔克纳说。他有泰国和中国血统，是一个建筑和工程公司的项目经理。“我们聚在一起喝酒、大笑。”
For most white Australians, L.G. and L.B. do not mean much, but find a group of young Asian-Australians here in Sydney and they will reel off an archetype. L.G.s and L.B.s are attractive, confident and outspoken. They hail from the city’s diverse Western Suburbs and they have the accents and the work ethic to prove it. They are devotees of trance or hardstyle (two differing genres of electronic music with ethereal vocals or a harsh, aggressive bass), and build their style on a foundation of expensive Adidas sneakers and Nike sports bras.
大多数澳大利亚白人不知LG和LB为何物，但是，随便在悉尼找一群年轻的亚裔澳大利亚人，他们都能把典型形象向你和盘托出。LG和LB很有魅力，充满自信，开朗外向。他们出生在这座城市多样化的西部郊区，他们的口音和敬业精神可以证明他们的出身。他们特别喜欢出神音乐(trance)或硬派音乐(hardstyle)，电子音乐的两种类型，前者有缥缈的人声，后者是粗犷的、具有冲击力的低音）。他们以昂贵的阿迪达斯(Adidas)运动鞋和耐克(Nike)运动文胸为基础打造自己的风格。
Almost certainly, they have an Instagram account.
他们几乎肯定都有Instagram账户。
And they represent what Australia increasingly looks like. According to census results released this week, one in two Australians are now either born overseas or have a parent who was born overseas, and that cohort is more likely to have roots in Asia than Europe for the first time since colonization.
他们代表着澳大利亚未来的面貌。根据本周公布的人口普查结果，每两个澳洲人中就有一个要么出生在国外，要么有一个父母出生在国外，而且自殖民时代以来，这群人第一次更多地可能来自亚洲，而非欧洲。
In a country that is still trying to reconcile its multicultural population with its “Australia-First” rhetoric, the L.G.s and L.B.s — who have grown up melding the expectations of immigrant heritage and traditional Australian identity — have carved out their own community, online and off, with a self-image that is still very much in flux.
澳大利亚依然在努力调和自己的多文化人口和“澳大利亚优先”的主张，LG和LB在成长过程中把移民传统的期望与传统澳大利亚人身分融合在一起，在线上和线下创造出自己的社区，它的自我形象依然在剧烈变化之中。
The little girl label seems to be a spinoff from a somewhat contemptuous shorthand applied by Asian-American communities in the United States to young Asian women who wore designer clothes and acted tough: A.B.G.s, or Asian Baby Girls.
LG的标签似乎源于美国亚裔群体对身穿名牌服装、举止强横的年轻亚裔女性的略带蔑视的简称：亚裔小女孩（Asian Baby Girls，简称ABG）。
Both terms have been batted around by young people in the United States and Canada since the early 2000s.
从新千年之初起，美国和加拿大的年轻人经常使用这两个称呼。
But by the time Mr. Falconer and some friends created a Facebook page in April dedicated to the L.G.s of Sydney and Melbourne, and another for the L.B.s, the term had already landed in the Asian-Australian community, with a mix of amusement and annoyance.
但是，在福尔克纳和一些朋友今年4月在Facebook上为悉尼和墨尔本的LG创建网页之前（他们另外还建了一个LB网页），这个称呼已经带着戏谑和厌烦出现在亚裔澳大利亚群体中了。
Giffie Ngo, 19, a student at the University of Technology Sydney who is from Bankstown, is reluctant to call herself an L.G. even though she is an administrator of the Facebook page and a regular at the raves that its followers attend. Many of the other young women in the scene also do not quite embrace the title either, even as they concede that they fit its parameters.
19岁的吉菲·吴(Giffie Ngo)是悉尼科技大学(University of Technology Sydney)的一名学生，来自班克斯敦，她不愿称自己为LG，尽管她是那个Facebook网页的一个管理员，也经常出现在它的关注者参与的锐舞中。这个群体中不太喜欢那个称呼的年轻人还有很多，尽管他们承认自己符合它的标准。
The term can be “sort of derogatory,” Ms. Ngo said, like an Asian-Australian parallel to the “guido” and “guidette” personas for Italian-Americans popularized by the television show “Jersey Shore.”
吴表示，这个称呼“有点贬义”，就像因电视真人秀《泽西海滩》(Jersey Shore)而广为人知的意大利裔美国人的别称圭多(guido)和圭黛特(guidette)一样。
That is part of what Mr. Falconer is trying to change. He said he created a presence on Facebook to mobilize the existing community and reverse the label’s negative connotations.
这是福尔克纳想要改变的一个方面。他表示，他在Facebook上创建这个网页，是为了动员现有的群体，改变这个标签的负面含义。
The page, which reaches more than 30,000 people, invites Sydney and Melbourne residents to submit photos of themselves or friends who fit the aesthetic and consent to be featured. Mr. Falconer and a team of administrators look through about 50 submissions a week, posting memes that poke fun at the subculture’s silliest aspects (like a reverence for Sanctuary’s Long Island ice teas) while also paying tribute to those who exemplify the group’s ethos: “Party hard, work and study hard.”
有3万多人浏览了这个页面。它邀请悉尼和墨尔本的居民提交自己或朋友符合这种审美且同意公布的照片。福尔克纳和一群管理员每周浏览约50张提交上来的照片，发布米姆揶揄这个亚文化群最愚蠢的地方（比如将庇护旅馆的长岛冰茶奉若神明），同时也向那些最能代表这个群体理念的人致敬：“疯狂玩乐，努力工作和学习。”
And despite their ethnicity, they say the page is multicultural and open to all young Australians.
尽管具有种族性，但他们表示，这个网页是多文化的，面向所有澳大利亚年轻人。
Catharine Lumby, a professor of media at Macquarie University in Sydney, said that for young Asian-Australians, and other groups of young people, social media and face-to-face social life have become indistinguishable.
悉尼麦考里大学(Macquarie University)媒体学教授凯瑟琳·伦比(Catharine Lumby)表示，对于年轻亚裔澳大利亚人以及其他年轻群体来说，社交媒体和面对面的社交生活已经没有很大差别了。
“The positive side of social media is that it’s giving young people a voice and a way to explore their identities,” she said.
“社交媒体积极的一面是，它给年轻人提供了一个探索自己身份的发声平台和途径，”她说。
The danger, she cautioned, is that these explorations are pushed out to a world with pre-existing biases of race and gender that may seek to undermine those seeking freedom and safety in a more welcoming setting.
她警告称，危险在于这些探索正被推往一个带着既有种族和性别偏见的社会，这可能会伤害那些希望在更友好的环境里找到自由和安全的人。
Some of the women in the L.G. world acknowledged that broadcasting their look on social media came with risks.
有些LG承认，在社交媒体上公布自己的相貌是有风险的。
“Some comments you like, some comments you don’t,” said Bianca Ha, an administrator of the page from Liverpool, whose picture was posted in the page’s early days.
“有些评论你喜欢，有些你不喜欢，”来自利物浦的该网页管理员比安卡·何(Bianca Ha)说。她的照片在该网页建立之初就发布了。
While some of the L.B.s can at times seem to be playing the role of traditional Aussie lads, acting crass and carousing, she said the Facebook page can be empowering — a way for some women to take control of how they are portrayed.
虽然有些LB有时似乎在扮演传统澳洲小伙子的角色，表现得粗暴愚钝，喜欢玩闹，但她说，那个Facebook页面也许有着赋权的力量——对某些女性来说，她们可以通过这种方式来掌控自己在人前的形象。