BEIJING — Australia, a close ally of the United States, has used its embassies in Asia to collect intelligence as part of the National Security Agency’s global surveillance efforts, according to a document leaked by Edward J. Snowden and published in the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel.
北京——根据爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露并由德国新闻杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)刊登的一份文件，作为美国国家安全局(National Security Agency，简称NSA)全球监控计划的组成部分，美国的亲密盟友澳大利亚利用本国驻亚洲国家的大使馆收集了情报。
The Chinese Foreign Ministry reacted angrily to the assertions in the document, which also said that the American Embassy in Beijing and consulates in Shanghai and Chengdu operated special intelligence gathering facilities, and it demanded an explanation from the United States.
文件还说，位于北京、上海、成都的美国驻华使领馆都设置了特殊的情报收集设施。中国外交部对文件中陈述的事情做出了愤怒的回应，并要求美方予以解释。
“We demand that foreign entities and personnel in China strictly abide by the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and other international treaties, and they must not, in any form, engage in activities that are incompatible with their position and status and that are harmful to China’s national security and interest,” Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the ministry, said at a daily briefing for reporters.
中国外交部女发言人华春莹在每日例行的记者发布会上表示，“我们要求外国驻华机构和人员严格遵守《维也纳外交关系公约》(Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations)、《维也纳领事关系公约》( Vienna Convention on Consular Relations )等国际条约，不得以任何方式从事与职务和身份不符、危害中国国家安全和利益的活动。”
Australia is one of the “Five Eyes” countries that share highly classified intelligence and agree not to spy on one another; the other four are the United States, Britain, Canada and New Zealand.
澳大利亚是“五只眼”(Five Eyes)协议国之一，协议国之间共享高度机密的情报，并承诺互不监视；其他四个协议国分别是美国、英国、加拿大和新西兰。
The Spiegel report and a report in The Sydney Morning Herald said that the intelligence collection program was conducted from Australian Embassies in China, Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam and East Timor, and the country’s High Commissions (the equivalent of embassies among Commonwealth countries) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea.
《明镜》周刊的报道和《悉尼先驱晨报》(The Sydney Morning Herald)的一篇报道指出，从事情报收集的使领馆包括澳大利亚驻中国、泰国、印度尼西亚、越南和东帝汶的大使馆，以及该国驻马来西亚吉隆坡和巴布亚新几内亚莫尔斯比港的最高专员公署（High Commissions，英联邦国家互派的相当于大使馆的机构）。
The N.S.A. program was called Stateroom, and was operated by the Australian Defense Signals Directorate, the German magazine quoted the N.S.A. document as saying.
该德国杂志引用NSA的文件称，前述NSA计划被称为“特等舱”(Stateroom)，由澳大利亚国防部信号处(Australian Defense Signals Directorate)执行。
A former Australian official with knowledge of Australia’s relationship with the United States said that Australia took part in the intelligence gathering to further its own national interests as well as to contribute to its alliance with Washington. The Australian intelligence operations had been going on in various forms for 20 to 30 years, the former official said.
一名了解美澳关系的澳大利亚前官员说，澳大利亚参与情报收集计划是为了增进本国利益，促进与美方的结盟关系。这名前任官员说，澳大利亚的情报收集行动形式多样，已经实施了20到30年。
Australia has long felt a need to gather sensitive information in Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim country, which lies just to the north of Australia, the former official said. The country’s volatile politics and security problems were of the highest priority to Australia for many years, and more recently the rise in people-smuggling to Australia from there had increased the need, the former official said.
这名前官员表示，长期以来，澳大利亚一直觉得有必要在印度尼西亚收集敏感信息。印度尼西亚位于澳大利亚以北，是全世界人口最多的穆斯林国家。这名前官员说，多年以来，印度尼西亚的动荡政局和安全问题一直是澳大利亚最关注的要务，近来，从印度尼西亚向澳大利亚偷渡的现象有所增加，信息收集就变得更加必要。
“This was done not as a favor to the United States,” said the former official, who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter. “It was more cooperative than at the U.S.'s request.”
“这么做并不是为了帮美国人的忙，”这名前官员说，“它更多是一种合作行动，而不是应美国的要求。”考虑到此事的敏感性，这名前官员要求匿名。
Describing the surveillance operations at the Australian facilities, the N.S.A. document quoted by Der Spiegel said they were “small in size and in number of personnel staffing them.” The document added, “They are covert, and their true mission is not known by the majority of the diplomatic staff at the facility where they are assigned.”
在介绍澳大利亚机构的监视行动时，《明镜》周刊援引NSA的文件说，这些行动“规模很小，配备的人手也很少”。该文件补充说，“那些人都是秘密行动，所在机构的大部分外交人员都不知道他们真正的任务。”
An email to the Australian agency assigned to answer questions about the program, the Attorney-General’s Department in Canberra, was not immediately answered.
受命回应该计划相关问题的是堪培拉总检察署(Attorney-General’s Department)，发给该机构的邮件没有得到即刻回复。
The reports were an embarrassment to the new conservative government in Australia, especially regarding the Australian Embassy in Beijing. The buoyant Australian economy depends on China’s appetite for Australian iron ore, and Prime Minister Tony Abbott said this month that he wanted to complete a free-trade agreement with China within a year.
相关报道让澳大利亚新成立的保守派政府尴尬不已，尤其是关于澳大利亚驻北京大使馆的报道。繁荣的澳大利亚经济有赖于中国对澳大利亚铁矿石的需求，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)本月还表示，希望在一年之内同中国完成一份自由贸易协定。
The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Ms. Hua, alluded to the relationship in her comments Thursday. China and Australia had a consensus to increase cooperation, she said, and “we hope and expect that Australia can work hard with China in this regard.”
中国外交部女发言人华春莹在周四的评论中含蓄地提到了中澳关系。她说，中国和澳大利亚就增进合作已有共识，“我们希望并期待澳大利亚在这个方面与中国通力合作”。