As President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia joined world leaders for the Group of 20 summit meeting in Brisbane, Australia, on Saturday, he faced criticism from President Obama and other leaders over the conflict in Ukraine.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在周六与世界各国领导人一道，参加在澳大利亚布里斯班举行的G20峰会，他因为乌克兰冲突问题受到了奥巴马总统及其他领导人的批评。
When Mr. Putin approached Stephen Harper, the prime minister of Canada, to shake his hand, Mr. Harper said, “I guess I’ll shake your hand, but I have only one thing to say to you: You need to get out of Ukraine,” according to Jason MacDonald, a spokesman for Mr. Harper.
据加拿大总理斯蒂芬·哈珀(Stephen Harper)的发言人杰森·麦克唐纳(Jason MacDonald)透露，普京走近哈珀与他握手时，哈珀说，“我想我会跟你握手的，但我只有一件事情对你说：你得从乌克兰撤出。”
At a speech at a university in Brisbane, Mr. Obama called Russia’s aggression against Ukraine a “threat to the world, as we saw in the appalling shootdown of MH-17, a tragedy that took so many innocent lives, among them your fellow citizens,” a reference to the Australian citizens and residents who were killed when Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 went down in eastern Ukraine.
奥巴马在布里斯班一所大学发表演讲时称，俄罗斯对乌克兰的侵略“对世界构成威胁，我们从MH17被击落事件中就可以看出。这场令人震惊的悲剧夺走了很多无辜的生命，其中有很多是你们的同胞。”马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班在乌克兰东部坠落时，机上乘客有很多是澳大利亚公民及居民。
“As your ally and friend, America shares the grief of these Australian families, and we share the determination of your nation for justice and accountability,” Mr. Obama said.
奥巴马说，“作为你们的盟友和朋友，美国与这些澳大利亚家庭一样深感悲痛，我们与你们一样，抱有追求正义和追究责任的决心。”
On Saturday, a spokesman for the Kremlin denied reports that Mr. Putin planned to leave the meeting earlier than planned because of the criticism. Mr. Putin will leave the meeting when “all the work is finished,” the spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov said on Kommersant-FM radio.
有报道称，由于受到批评，普京计划提前离开会议，但周六，克里姆林宫(Kremlin)的一名发言人否认相关报道。发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)通过生意人电台(Kommersant-FM)表示，“所有工作都完成”时，普京才会离开。
“Sanctions have been discussed actively and broadly at all bilateral meetings, but nobody is pressing,” Mr. Peskov said.
佩斯科夫说，“所有双边会议都对制裁进行了积极和广泛的讨论，但是没人咄咄逼人。”
On Sunday, leaders from the European Union planned to meet with Mr. Obama to discuss Ukraine, among other issues, said Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council. He said the European Union was committed to finding a political solution to the crisis.
欧洲理事会(European Council)主席赫尔曼·范龙佩(Herman Van Rompuy)称，周日，欧盟领导人打算与奥巴马会晤，就乌克兰等问题进行讨论。他说，欧盟已经下定决心，要为这场危机找到一个政治解决方案。
“We will continue to use all the diplomatic tools, including sanctions, at our disposal,” he said.
他说，“我们将运用所有可以使用的外交工具，包括制裁在内。”
Last month, Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia told reporters that he planned to “shirt-front” Mr. Putin at the meeting, using a term that in Australian football means charging an opponent to knock him down and in rugby refers to grabbing an opponent’s shirt or collar.
上个月，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)告诉记者，他计划在会议上“正面撞击”(shirt-front)普京。这是一个澳式橄榄球中的术语，意指向对手冲过去并撞倒对方，在英式橄榄球比赛中，它指的是抓住对手的上衣或领口。