Malcolm Turnbull, a former investment banker and lawyer, became the prime minister of Australia on Monday night after defeating Tony Abbott in a vote of Liberal Party lawmakers.
作过律师与投资银行家的马尔科姆·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull) 于周一晚间举行的自由党议员投票中击败托尼‧阿博特(Tony Abbott)，成为澳大利亚总理。
The vote was the second challenge to Mr. Abbott’s leadership in seven months. He won the government in September 2013.
这是七个月内第二度有人挑战阿博特的领导位置。他是在2013年9月入主澳大利亚政府的。
Mr. Turnbull is a moderate Liberal, whose views, most recently on the legitimacy of same-sex marriage, had conflicted with those of his prime minister. The Liberals, despite their name, are the more conservative of Australia’s two major parties.
特恩布尔是温和派自由党人，此前立场与总理相左，最近一例是同性婚姻合法化问题。自由党不如其名，是澳大利亚两大政党中较为保守的一方。
Mr. Turnbull won the support of 54 of his party colleagues, against 44 who voted in favor of Mr. Abbott’s retaining the party leadership.
特恩布尔赢得了54位党内同仁的选票支持，而赞成阿博特留任党魁的只有44票。
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop will remain deputy leader of the Liberal Party. Ms. Bishop secured 70 votes, against 30 votes for her cabinet colleague Kevin Andrews. One lawmaker missed the vote for the leadership position, joining the session in time for the vote for deputy leader.
外交部长朱莉·毕晓普(Julie Bishop)将续任副党魁。她获得了70票，击败只得到30票的内阁同僚凯文‧安德鲁斯(Kevin Andrews)。一位自由党议员错过了党魁选举，在副党魁选举时才加入投票行列。
Mr. Turnbull called on Mr. Abbott to convene Monday night’s voting session earlier in the day. He resigned his position as communications minister and said at a news conference at Parliament House in Canberra, Australia’s capital, that he would challenge the prime minister for leadership of the Liberal Party.
特恩布尔在周一稍早时要求阿博特于是日晚间举行投票。他辞去了通讯部长的职位，并且于澳洲首府堪培拉的国会大厦举行记者会，表示他将挑战总理的党魁职位。
“It is clear enough that the government is not successful in providing the economic leadership that we need,” Mr. Turnbull said at the news conference.
特恩布尔在记者会上表示 ：“政府当局很显然缺乏我们所需要的经济领导力。”
“It is not the fault of individual ministers,” he said. “Ultimately the prime minister has not been capable of providing the economic leadership our nation needs. He has not been capable of providing the economic confidence that business needs.”
“归根结底，这不是某一个部长的错，”他说，“而是总理无力提供我国所需的经济领导。他不能提供企业所需的经济信心。”
At a separate news conference, Mr. Abbott agreed to hold the vote in Canberra on Monday night.
在另一场记者会上，阿博特同意于周一晚间在堪培拉举行投票。
“The prime ministership of this country is not a prize or a plaything to be demanded,” Mr. Abbott said. “It should be something which is earned by a vote of the Australian people.
“我国的总理之职不是一个可以索要的奖赏或玩物。”阿博特表示，“它应该由澳大利亚人民投票决定。”
“There will be a party room ballot for both the leadership and deputy leadership position later this evening. I will be a candidate, and I expect to win.”
“今晚我们会举行内部的党魁与副党魁选举。我将是候选人之一，我认为我会赢。”
The previous Australian government, led by the Labor Party, lost an election in September 2013 after twice dumping its leaders. Kevin Rudd was elected prime minister in 2007, only to be replaced by his own party with Julia Gillard, Australia’s first female prime minister, in 2010. Ms. Gillard was replaced by Mr. Rudd in June 2013 just months ahead of the election.
先前由工党领导的澳大利亚政府在更换两次党魁后，于2013年9月的全国大选中败选。陆克文(Kevin Rudd)在2007年当选总理，随后又于2010年被本党的朱莉亚‧吉拉德(Julia Gillard)取代，她也是澳大利亚第一位女性总理。然而在2013年大选数月前，陆克文又换下吉拉德，重掌党魁一职。
Mr. Abbott said on Monday that he was dismayed at the attempt to destabilize his leadership from within his own party. But he had faced opposition from some party members over his conservative stances on same-sex marriage, climate change and pollution targets.
阿博特于周一表示，他对党内有人企图削弱他的领导地位感到失望。不过他在同性婚姻、气候变化与污染指标等问题上所持的保守立场早已遭到部分党员的反对。
Mr. Turnbull entered Parliament in 2004. He was briefly leader of the Liberal Party, from September 2008 to December 2009, when the party was in opposition. He also holds more moderate views on climate change than Mr. Abbott and was deposed as leader.
特恩布尔于2004年进入国会，曾在2008年9月至2009年12月间短暂担任党魁，当时自由党是反对党。他在气候变化问题上的态度也比阿博特更温和，被夺去了党魁的职位。