SYDNEY, Australia — An Australian search vessel has detected two more sets of signals that might originate from “black box” flight recorders from the Malaysia Airlines jetliner missing for more than a month, an Australian official coordinating the search for the plane said on Wednesday.
澳大利亚悉尼——协调马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)失踪客机搜索工作的一名澳大利亚官员周三表示，澳大利亚的一艘搜索船只又探测到了两组信号，信号可能来自该飞机的飞行记录仪“黑匣子”。该飞机已经失踪一月有余。
The official, Angus Houston, said the new clues would help narrow the hunt for wreckage from the aircraft.
名为安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)的这名官员称，新线索有助于缩小搜索飞机残骸的范围。
“What we’re picking up is a great lead,” Mr. Houston told a news conference in Perth. “I’m now optimistic that we will find the aircraft, or what is left of the aircraft, in the not too distant future.”
“我们探测到的是非常有用的线索，”休斯顿在珀斯的新闻发布会上说，“现在，我对我们在不久的将来找到飞机或飞机残骸的前景持乐观态度。”
A locator towed by an Australian ship, the Ocean Shield, detected the two additional bursts of signals on Tuesday, after two were captured over the weekend, Mr. Houston said.
休斯顿称，继周末探测到两组信号后，澳大利亚船只“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)使用的拖拽式声波探测仪周二又捕捉到了两组信号。
In recent days, pings were picked up by the Ocean Shield and the Chinese ship Haixun 01, which were searching the southern Indian Ocean northwest of Perth. Since those initial detections, the first announced by Chinese state news media on Saturday, no subsequent sounds had been picked up — until now.
最近几天，在珀斯西北方向的南印度洋搜索的“海盾号”和中国的海巡01轮都探测到了信标。但是，在这些最初的探测发现之后，此前一直没有探测到后续信号。第一次探测发现是由中国官方新闻媒体上周六宣布的。
“I can now tell you that Ocean Shield has been able to reacquire on two more occasions, late yesterday afternoon and late last night Perth time,” said Mr. Houston, a retired chief marshal. The first detection on Tuesday lasted five minutes and 32 seconds, and the second lasted seven minutes.
“我现在可以告诉你们，‘海盾号’分别在珀斯时间的昨天傍晚和昨天深夜两次探测到了信号，”已退役的空军上将休斯顿说。周二探测到的第一组信号持续了5分32秒，第二组信号持续了7分钟。
“Ocean Shield has now detected four transmissions in the same broad area,” he said. “Yesterday’s signals will assist in better defining a reduced and much more manageable search area on the ocean floor.”
“‘海盾号’现在已经在同一海域探测到了四组信号，”他说，“昨天的信号将有助于我们更好地界定一个范围更小、远比以前容易应对的海底搜索区域。”
Analysis of the first two detections of signals from the Ocean Shield acquired over the weekend showed they were “consistent” with flight-record locator signals and were not from natural sources, Mr. Houston said.
休斯顿说，对“海盾号”周末探测到的两组信号进行的分析表明，它们与飞行记录定位器信号“相符”，而且不是天然物体发出的。
“I believe we’re searching in the right area,” he said, “but we need to visually identify aircraft wreckage before we confirm with certainty that this is the final resting place.”
他说，“我认为，我们正在正确的海域执行搜索，不过，我们必须要用视觉搜索到飞机残骸，才能肯定地确认这是飞机最后的安息之地。”
The batteries powering the locator signals on the missing aircraft expire after about 30 days, and Mr. Houston warned that the latest detections, if they came from the plane, were weakening, leaving little time.
给失踪飞机上的信号定位装置供电的电池大约能维持30天时间，休斯顿警告称，最近探测到的信号正在减弱，如果信号确实来自失踪飞机，那就说明搜索时间已经所剩无几。
There was still no sign of debris on the surface, Mr. Houston said. “The only thing we have got at the moment is the detection of the transmissions,” he said. “We have no idea at this stage what is under the water.”
休斯顿说，海面上依然没有出现残骸痕迹。他说，“我们此刻获得的唯一一条线索，就是探测到了传输信号。现阶段，我们对水下的情况一无所知。”
He added that the underwater search would be difficult given the amount of silt on the seabed. “It makes a visual search under water very difficult.”
他还说，鉴于海床上覆盖着大量淤泥，水下搜索的难度相当大。“这使得水下视觉搜索极为困难。”
Commodore Peter Leavy of the Royal Australian Navy, who is helping to lead the search, said the silt on the seafloor was so thick that it might be muffling the signals from one or both black boxes.
协助主持搜索工作的澳大利亚皇家海军准将彼得·利维(Peter Leavy)表示，海底淤泥太厚，可能会隔绝全部两个或其中一个黑匣子发出的信号。
On Tuesday, before the latest signals were detected, officials pledged to scour the ocean for the data recorders until they were certain that the pingers from the device were no longer working.
本周二，就在探测到最新的信号之前，官员们誓称要继续在大洋中搜索数据记录仪，直到断定该设备的信标发射装置不再工作为止。
David Johnston, the Australian defense minister, described the challenging work ahead. “This is an herculean task,” he said. “It is over a very, very wide area. The water is extremely deep.”
澳大利亚国防部长戴维·约翰斯顿(David Johnston)谈到了未来的艰巨任务。“这是一项极为艰巨的任务。工作区域很大很大。海水也非常深。”
The plane disappeared on March 8 on a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing with 239 people aboard.
该飞机是3月8日消失的，当时它正从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京，机上有239名乘员。
On Monday, Mr. Houston reported that the Ocean Shield, using a towed ping locator, had detected signals on two occasions, one lasting two hours and 20 minutes and the second lasting 13 minutes. The sounds were consistent with flight data and cockpit voice recorders and were described as the best lead that searchers had had as to where the plane might have disappeared. There has been no confirmation that the signals were from the jet, and no debris identified as being from Flight 370 has been collected from the sea.
周一，休斯顿报告说，“海盾号”使用的拖曳式声波探测器在两个不同的时间探测到了信号，第一次探测到的信号持续了2小时20分钟，第二次持续了13分钟。探测到的声音与飞机数据记录仪和驾驶舱录音仪的声音一致，有关方面称之为搜寻人员掌握的最好线索，可以帮助确定该飞机消失在哪里。目前尚无确凿证据表明这些信号来自失踪飞机，也没有从海上打捞到任何被确认属于马航370的碎片。