JAKARTA, Indonesia — In January, Naqsh Murtaza had had enough of war-torn Afghanistan. Mr. Naqsh, a 27-year-old Afghan, fled with his mother and two younger brothers across the border into Pakistan, the first stop on a risky journey whose ultimate destination was Australia.
印度尼西亚雅加达——今年1月，纳克什·穆尔塔扎(Naqsh Murtaza)终于受够了战火蹂躏下的阿富汗。27岁的他与母亲及两个弟弟穿越边境逃到了巴基斯坦。这是一趟险象环生的旅程，最终目的地是澳大利亚，巴基斯坦不过是第一个中转站。
He lacked the money to get the whole family there, so he hoped to reach Australia himself, obtain asylum and then send for them once he was settled.
纳克什没有足够的钱供全家前往澳大利亚，因此他希望自己先去，获得庇护，安顿下来后再立即给他们汇钱。
Getting as far as Indonesia or Malaysia is relatively easy for Muslims like Mr. Naqsh. Lax visa restrictions make it relatively easy to enter the countries, and well-established smuggling networks pack asylum-seekers into boats to brave the sea crossing to Australian soil.
对纳克什这样的穆斯林而言，抵达印度尼西亚或马来西亚相对容易。宽松的签证限制让进入这两个国家比较简单，随后完整的偷渡网络会将寻求庇护者塞进船里，穿过风浪抵达澳大利亚领土。
Like many of the rickety vessels, the boat carrying Mr. Naqsh foundered midway, and he had to be rescued by the Indonesian authorities; he never reached Australia. But it might not have mattered if he had.
与许多类似的破烂船只一样，纳克什乘坐的那艘中途沉没，不得不接受印尼当局的搭救。自始至终，他没有踏上澳大利亚的土地。不过，就算他到了，也很可能无济于事。
Under a new policy announced by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on July 19 in the prelude to what is expected to be a close national election next month, anyone arriving by boat without a visa, the way Mr. Naqsh tried, is to be sent to a refugee-processing center in neighboring Papua New Guinea and be barred from ever settling in Australia. It is the most exclusionary measure the country has tried in hopes of stemming the tide of asylum-seekers, which has become a hot-button political issue.
澳大利亚下月即将进行大选，外界预计选情激烈。在此背景下，总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)于7月19日宣布了一项新政策，凡是没有签证乘船抵达该国的人，比如纳克什，都会被遣送到邻国巴布亚新几内亚的一家难民处理中心，并且终生不得在澳大利亚定居。这是该国迄今为止尝试的最具排斥性的措施，希望能拦阻寻求庇护的人潮，因为这一现象已成为棘手的政治难题。
The government advertised the new policy heavily in Australian newspapers and on television, aiming to reach immigrant populations that could spread the word in their countries of origin to friends and relatives who were contemplating fleeing to Australia.
澳大利亚政府在本国的报刊和电视上大力宣传新政策，希望能让移民群体听到，并将其传播到原籍国家里正盘算逃往澳大利亚的亲友中间。
But Australia’s history of policy flip-flops has left many migrants confused about what the rules are and has raised hopes in others that the latest policy, too, will be reversed. Misinformation, not least from the smugglers, has also undermined the effort to spread the word.
然而，澳大利亚相关政策反复无常的历史让许多移民搞不清当前的规则，还让另一部分人满怀希望，新政策也许会被逆转。来自蛇头和其他各方的虚假信息也对传播该政策的努力构成了破坏。
The fishing boat carrying Mr. Naqsh and more than 70 Iranians, Pakistanis and other Afghans set sail July 28. Some of the refugees carried prepaid cellphones and the emergency numbers of Australian officials taken from government Web sites. A few days out from shore, a powerful storm damaged the boat, which began to sink slowly in international waters. The migrants and five crew members were picked up by the Indonesian National Search and Rescue Agency after 17 hours of desperate calls to the Australian authorities, who passed the word to their Indonesian counterparts.
纳克什和70多名来自伊朗、巴基斯坦和阿富汗的偷渡客乘坐的渔船于7月28日启航。有些难民带上了预付费手机，里面存着澳大利亚政府网站公布的官员紧急联络号码。航行了几天之后，一场强烈的暴风雨导致船体受损，让它开始在国际海域徐徐下沉。他们绝望地给澳大利亚当局打了17个小时的电话，从澳方得到消息的印尼当局派遣国家搜救中心(National Search and Rescue Agency)的船只把这些人及五名船员搭救上岸。
The migrants were taken back to Indonesia, where they will be allowed to stay until the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees determines whether they qualify as bona fide refugees and not economic migrants.
移民被遣送回印尼，获许在当地停留，直至联合国难民署(Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)判定，他们到底是货真价实的难民，还是经济移民。
It is unclear how much the new policy will deter migrants in the long-term. What is clear is that it has had little effect so far.
长期而言，新政策会在多大程度上阻止移民的到来，这一点尚不明朗，但很明显的是，迄今为止它收效甚微。
According to Australian officials, in the four weeks after Mr. Rudd’s announcement, 2,784 migrants arrived in, or tried to reach, Australia from Indonesia and elsewhere, nearly double the monthly average of 1,434 in 2012. They said 356 who reached Christmas Island had been sent to a camp on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea.
根据澳大利亚官方公布的数据，陆克文宣布政策以来的四周里，有2748名移民成功或试图从印尼等地登陆澳大利亚，近两倍于2012年的月均值1434名。官方称，抵达圣诞岛的356人已被送往巴布亚新几内亚的马努斯岛上的一处营地。
Some who set out after the announcement said they had not heard about it, including some survivors from a boat that left Indonesia on July 23 with more than 200 people from Iran and Sri Lanka and sank off the coast of West Java Province in Indonesia, killing at least 20.
政策宣布后动身的一部分人表示，他们没有听说相关消息，比如7月23日离开印尼的那艘沉船上的幸存者。该船当时载有逾200名来自伊朗和斯里兰卡的移民，后来在印尼西爪哇省附近海域沉没，导致至少20人丧生。
Others who were fully aware of the new policy set out anyway. Abdulkadir Abdi, 28, a Somali refugee biding his time in Indonesia, saw a report about the policy on television. He said that some compatriots who also knew about it had sailed from the Indonesian port of Makassar on the night of July 31, headed for Christmas Island, and that he had not heard from any of them since they prepared to cast off.
另一部分人完全知晓这项新政策，但还是决定启程。28岁的索马里难民阿卜杜勒卡迪尔·阿卜迪(Abdulkadir Abdi)正在印尼等待时机，他在电视上看到了相关报道。他表示，有一些也知道这个消息的同胞于7月31日晚间从印尼的望加锡港出发，前往圣诞岛。自从他们准备出发后，他就再也没听到任何人的消息。
Mr. Abdi, who had arrived in Indonesia in January 2011 expecting to attend a university only to learn that he had been defrauded by an “education agent” in Somalia, said he would have joined the group, but could not pay the smugglers’ fee.
阿卜迪于2011年1月抵达印尼，准备在当地读大学，结果却发现自己被索马里的“教育中介”骗了。他还说，自己本来也想和他们一起走，但付不起蛇头的要价。
“In the minds of refugees, there are two options: You die on the boat, or you will go to Australia,” Mr. Abdi said. As for the risk of being transferred to Papua New Guinea, he said, the thinking is, “maybe they won’t send me — policies can change.”
“在难民心里，只有两个选择：要么死在船上，要么去到澳大利亚，”阿卜迪说。至于被转送至巴布亚新几内亚的风险，他表示难民的想法是，“也许他们不会把我送走吧——政策会变的。”