SYDNEY, Australia — The federal police said Sunday that they had arrested an Australian man who was charged with acting as an economic agent for North Korea by trying to help the isolated country sell its missile parts and other military technology abroad.
澳大利亚悉尼——澳大利亚联邦警察部门周日表示，警方已逮捕了一名澳大利亚男子，此人被指控试图帮助朝鲜在国外出售自己的导弹部件和其他军事技术，为那个被孤立的国家充当经济代理人。
The man, Chan Han Choi, 59, was arrested on Saturday in the Sydney suburb of Eastwood, where he lives. The police accused him of violating both United Nations sanctions and Australian law by attempting to conduct trade deals on behalf of North Korea — the first time such charges have been filed in Australia.
现年59岁的崔灿翰（Chan Han Choi，音）周六在他居住的悉尼郊区伊斯特伍德(Eastwood)被逮捕。警方指控他试图代表朝鲜进行买卖交易，违反了联合国的制裁和澳大利亚的法律。这是澳大利亚首次使用这个指控。
The arrest comes as tensions in the region have risen over a series of North Korean nuclear and missile tests, which have defied international sanctions aimed at curtailing the weapons programs.
此次逮捕行动发生在区域紧张局势不断升级的时候。朝鲜蔑视旨在限制其核武器项目的国际制裁，进行了一系列核试验和导弹试验。
Speaking to reporters, Neil Gaughan, the assistant commissioner for the Australian Federal Police, said Mr. Choi was charged with trying to broker the sale of missile components, including software for the guidance of ballistic missiles, and other unspecified North Korean military expertise to “international entities,” which he did not identify.
澳大利亚联邦警察局助理局长尼尔·高根(Neil Gaughan)对记者说，崔灿翰被指控试图与警方未指明的“国际实体”协商出售朝鲜导弹部件，包括用于弹道导弹制导的软件，以及其他未明确说明的朝鲜军事专业知识。
He also said Mr. Choi was “discussing the supply of weapons of mass destruction,” in reference to the attempted sale of the missile components described by the police.
高根还说，崔灿翰“在讨论大规模杀伤性武器的供应事宜”，指的是他试图出售被警方描述为导弹部件的东西。
Mr. Choi was a naturalized Australian citizen who had lived in the country for more than 30 years, the police said. They did not elaborate, but some Australian news media reports said he was born in South Korea.
警方说，崔灿翰是归化入籍的澳大利亚公民，已在该国生活了30多年。虽然警方没有进一步说明，但澳大利亚几家新闻媒体报道称，崔灿翰出生在韩国。
“We think he’s acting as an economic agent on behalf of North Korea,” Mr. Gaughan said at a news conference. “He’s doing it out of a patriotic purpose. I think at the end of the day, he’d sell whatever he could to make money back for the North Korean government.”
“我们认为他是朝鲜的经济代理人，”高根在新闻发布会上说。“他这样做是出于爱国的目的。我认为，为了给朝鲜政府赚钱，他最终会去卖所有可以销售的东西。”
The police said evidence suggested that Mr. Choi had been in “contact with high-ranking officials in North Korea” but would not comment further.
警方说，有证据表明，崔灿翰曾“与朝鲜高层官员接触”，但没有进一步说明。
Mr. Choi was also charged with attempting to sell North Korean coal in countries such as Indonesia and Vietnam, the police said, adding that there was no evidence of involvement by those countries’ governments or officials. Such sales would violate international sanctions aimed at cutting off North Korea from the global economy.
警方表示，崔灿翰还被指控试图在印度尼西亚和越南等国家出售朝鲜煤炭。警方补充说，没有证据表明这些国家的政府或官员参与其中。销售煤炭违反国际制裁，制裁的目的是切断朝鲜与全球经济的联系。
The investigation started this year after the police received information from a foreign law enforcement partner about a different matter.
调查是在警方从一个外国执法合作伙伴那里获得了与另一件事有关的信息之后开始的。
After months of “careful and methodical” investigation, the police said, they uncovered evidence that led them to believe that Mr. Choi was working to generate income for the North Korean government from abroad as recently as this year.
警方说，经过了几个月的“慎重、有条不紊的”调查之后，他们找到的证据让他们确信，直到最近的今年，崔灿翰一直在努力为朝鲜政府创造收入。
If he is found guilty, Mr. Choi could face up to 10 years in prison.
如果崔灿翰被判有罪，他将面临最高10年的监禁。
“He seems to be a fellow traveler willing to take the risk to try and exploit whatever loopholes exist with surveillance and sanctions,” said Euan Graham, the director of the international security program at the Lowy Institute. “It means the North Koreans are still trying to access whatever componentry they can, even in a high-risk country like Australia.”
“他看来是一个同情朝鲜的人，愿意冒险去尝试、利用监视和制裁上存在的漏洞，”澳洲研究院洛伊研究所(Lowy Institute)国际安全问题研究项目主任尤安·格雷厄姆(Euan Graham)说。“这意味着朝鲜人仍在试图获得他们所能得到的任何东西，即使是在像澳大利亚这样的高风险国家。”
For years, North Korea has found ways to skirt sanctions to obtain technology and earn hard currency by selling not just weapons but also counterfeit money and drugs.
朝鲜寻找绕开制裁的办法已有多年。它不仅出售武器，还出售假币和毒品，来获得技术、赚取硬通货。
North Korea no longer has an embassy in Australia in part because of one such moneymaking mission gone wrong: In 2003, the Pong Su, a North Korean cargo ship that ran aground on an Australian beach, was found to be filled with about 275 pounds of heroin. The crew was arrested and later deported, and the North Korean embassy closed five years later.
朝鲜在澳大利亚已经不再有大使馆，部分原因是该国的一次这种赚钱行动出了差错：2003年，朝鲜货船“烽遂”(Pong Su)号在澳大利亚海滩搁浅后，警方发现船上装有约125公斤的海洛因。该船的船员被逮捕，后来被驱逐出境，朝鲜驻澳大利亚大使馆也在五年后关闭。
When North Korea asked for it to be reopened in 2013, Australia refused.
2013年，朝鲜曾要求重开大使馆，遭到澳大利亚的拒绝。
Mr. Gaughan, the police official, called Mr. Choi’s arrest a sign of Australia’s commitment to upholding international sanctions on North Korea.
警方官员高根把逮捕崔灿翰一事称作是澳大利亚致力于维护对朝鲜的国际制裁的一个信号。
“This investigation shows that the United Nations and Australian sanctions will be rigorously enforced in Australia,” he said.
“这次调查表明，澳大利亚将严格执行联合国和澳大利亚的制裁措施，”他说。