MELBOURNE, Australia — Zhang Yuan’s business started with favors for relatives: an aunt who wanted baby formula, a cousin looking for Ugg boots. She was a college student here in Australia and every dollar helped, so she mailed the items back to China and charged a bit of a commission.
澳大利亚墨尔本——张媛（音）的生意从帮助亲戚开始：一位姨妈想要婴儿配方奶粉，一个表妹在找乌格(Ugg)靴。张媛是一名在澳大利亚上大学的留学生，每块钱对她来说都很重要，所以她把帮人买的东西寄回中国，并收了一点儿佣金。
But then, through word of mouth, her business just kept growing. Between classes, she would shop for whatever was popular that week: vitamins, brand-name jewelry, a fake erectile dysfunction drug called Kangaroo Essence. And when she could not find a more lucrative job after graduation, she stayed in Melbourne and in the booming gray market for selling Australian goods to Chinese consumers.
但后来，一传十、十传百，她的生意越做越大。她会在课余时间去购买本周流行的各种东西：维生素、名牌首饰、一种名为“袋鼠精华”(Kangaroo Essence)的号称能治疗勃起功能障碍的假药。她毕业之后没找到能赚更多钱的工作，于是就留在了墨尔本，继续在繁荣的灰色市场上从事向中国消费者出售澳大利亚商品的业务。
Her business now employs two buyers, two packers and two people in customer service, with offices in Melbourne and Hangzhou, her hometown in eastern China. Taking orders online, she sells mainly to health-conscious and well-to-do women and says she makes more than $300,000 a year.
她的小公司现在雇有两名专门的购物者、两名包装工和两名客服人员，在墨尔本和她位于中国东部的老家杭州设有办事处。她通过网络得到订单，主要销售给健康意识强的富裕女性，她说，她每年挣的钱超过30万美元。
“The Chinese have always had blind adoration for foreign things,” said Ms. Zhang, 25. “So rather than paying for expensive, made-in-China products that might lack safety, why wouldn’t they buy high-quality Australian ones at lower prices?”
“中国人对外国东西一直盲目崇拜，”25岁的张媛说。“所以，与其说购买昂贵的、但可能不安全的中国造的产品，为什么不买更便宜的高质量澳大利亚产品呢？”
Even as the world has come to rely on Chinese products, Australian goods have become hot commodities in China, and tens of thousands of young Chinese who are students at Australian universities or recent graduates have built a cottage industry to meet that demand.
在全世界都依赖中国产品的时候，澳大利亚商品却成了中国的热门货，为了满足这个需求，成千上万在澳大利亚的中国留学生或毕业不久的中国年轻人已经建立了一个作坊式的服务产业。
The thriving trade — fueled by Chinese anxiety over counterfeit goods and product safety at home — reflects the growing economic interdependence between China and Australia, with all the opportunities and challenges that come with closer ties between a wealthier nation of 24 million people and a rising regional power of more than 1.3 billion. China is now Australia’s biggest trading partner, and Chinese investment in Australia set a record last year.
这个繁荣的贸易受到中国人对国内假冒商品和产品安全的担忧的推动，也反映了中国与澳达利亚之间越来越多的经济相互依赖关系，以及与这种日益密切的关系相关的挑战，澳大利亚是一个只有2400万人口的富裕国家，而中国是正在崛起的、有13多亿人口的区域大国。中国目前是澳大利亚最大的贸易伙伴，中国去年在澳大利亚的投资创下了历史新高。
The students, who call themselves daigou, or purchasing agents, are highly attuned to Chinese tastes and move quickly, sometimes creating spikes in demand in Australia and clearing out stores of specific products before shopkeepers know what hit them. Some analysts estimate that daigou sent as much as $600 million in Australian products to China last year.
这些充当采购代理的学生自称“代购”，他们对中国人的嗜好高度敏感，并且行动迅速，有时能在澳大利亚市场上制造需求高峰，在店主还没有搞明白之前，把商店里的某个产品全部扫空。据一些分析师估计，去年，代购者向中国出口了总值高达6亿美元的澳大利亚产品。
But their success has also drawn scrutiny, with officials in both China and Australia examining whether they are paying required taxes and complying with other regulations.
但是，他们的成功也引起了更多的注意，中澳两国官员正在调查他们是否缴纳了需交的税，是否遵守其他规定。
The business is in many ways a byproduct of China’s huge interest in a different kind of Australian product: international education, considered one of the nation’s top exports, worth $15 billion a year. Nearly a third of the 450,000 foreign students in Australia are from China, and the figure is growing.
代购业务从许多方面来看，是中国人对澳大利亚另一种产品的巨大兴趣的副产品：国际教育被认为是澳大利亚最大的出口产品之一，价值高达每年150亿美元。澳大利亚的45万外国学生中有近三分之一来自中国，这个数字仍在增长。
Peter Cai, a fellow at the Lowy Institute, a think tank in Sydney, said the students had become a powerful force helping Australian products break into China. “Just through the daigou’s own personal networks, they enable a new market for a small- and medium-sized business in Australia,” he said.
蔡彼得(Peter Cai)是位于悉尼的智库洛伊研究所(Lowy Institute)的研究员，他说，这些学生已成为一种帮助澳大利亚产品打入中国的强大力量。“仅仅通过代购本人的个人关系网，他们就已经为澳大利亚的中小企业开创了一个新型市场。”
“I think we’re almost entering a new phase of the China-Australia economic relationship” requiring greater understanding of the Chinese market, he added, and the students provide that understanding.
他补充说：“我认为，我们几乎正在进入一个（需要对中国市场有更多了解的）中澳经济关系新阶段”，而留学生们提供了这种了解。
Chinese purchasing agents first appeared in Europe, buying and shipping luxury goods like handbags for China’s growing middle class. But the trade has shifted to Australia in recent years as the Chinese student population in Australia has expanded and consumers in China have grown more anxious about food and product safety.
中国的采购代理首先出现在欧洲，他们为中国不断增长的中产阶级购买手袋等奢侈品，把其运回中国。但近年来，随着澳大利亚的中国留学生人数的增长，以及中国消费者对食品和产品安全的担忧越来越大，代购业务开始转向澳大利亚。
Worries over infant formula, for example, surged in 2008 when six babies died and more than 300,000 children fell ill from drinking Chinese milk products that had been tainted with melamine, a toxic chemical. Many in China turned to imported milk powder in response, but reports of distributors or retailers adulterating it with Chinese formula prompted consumers to directly seek supplies from overseas.
比如，2008年，受有毒化学物质三聚氰胺污染的中国奶制品导致六名婴儿死亡、30多万名儿童患病之后，人们对婴儿配方奶粉的担忧剧增。作为对这种担忧的回应，许多中国人转为使用进口奶粉，但分销商或零售商用中国配方对进口奶粉掺假的消息，促使消费者直接向海外寻找供应。
“There’d be huge amounts of infant powder, 900-gram cans, that were being bought off the supermarket shelves here and put in mailbags and sent to China via students,” said John Droppert, a senior analyst at Dairy Australia, an industry group. “Pallet loads were just disappearing because people were putting it in the post and sending it to China.”
“曾有大量的婴儿配方奶粉，900克装的罐头，被人从这里的超市货架上买走，放入邮袋，通过学生寄往中国，”澳大利亚乳业公司(Dairy Australia)的高级分析师约翰·蒂洛普特(John Droppert)说。“整运货板的奶粉一下子就卖光了，因为人们在把奶粉邮寄回中国。”
Chinese students in Australia say as many as eight in 10 of them are involved in the daigou business. Some are just trying to make ends meet with occasional sales. Others have managed to build significant export businesses. They mail their products to customers in China or ship them to Hong Kong, where traders can carry them across the border to avoid mainland tariffs.
澳大利亚的中国留学生说，他们每10人中就有八人参与了代购业务。有些人只是通过偶尔的销售把生活费挣出来。还有些人已经把代购做成了颇大的出口业务。他们将产品邮寄给中国的客户，或将其运到香港，通过那里的商人把东西带过边境，以避免大陆的关税。
“Shopping for others is like buying for myself. It gives me the same pleasure,” said Uki Shao, 18, a business major in Melbourne who described herself as the “best daigou at my college.” She sells brand-name items like Pandora jewelry, Michael Kors accessories and Aesop lotions and said that her main challenge was persuading customers that her products are not fake.
“为别人购物就像为自己买东西一样，给我带来同样的乐趣，”18岁的邵宇绮（音）说，她是在墨尔本主修商务的学生，自称是“我所在大学的最佳代购”。她代购的名牌物品包括潘多拉(Pandora)首饰、迈克尔·科斯(Michael Kors)配饰，以及艾索布(Aesop)润肤乳等，她说，她的主要挑战是说服客户产品不是假的。
“Sometimes, I have to take a video and post it on WeChat to show I’m in Australia,” she said, referring to the dominant messaging app in China, which the students also use to process payments.
“有时，我需要拍一段视频放到微信上播放，以此来显示我在澳大利亚，”她说，微信指的是在中国占主导地位的即时通讯应用，留学生们也用微信来处理付款。
The trade has grown so fast in recent years that Australian companies now hold events to meet with Chinese students and show them their products. Many work with retailers in China, too, but they are careful not to bypass the daigou in Australia, whose endorsements and personal networks they covet.
代购业务近年来发展的如此之快，以至于澳大利亚公司现在举办与中国留学生见面的活动，向他们展示自己的产品。许多公司也与中国零售商合作，但它们很慎重，不避开澳大利亚的代购，因为公司渴望得到这些人的认同和他们的个人关系网。
Van Diemen’s Land Company, the Tasmanian diary giant, began shipping thousands of liters of fresh milk to China every week but said in February that it intended to work closely with “the all-important daigou channel” to promote sales.
塔斯马尼亚的奶制品巨头范迪门土地公司(Van Diemen’s Land Company)开始每周向中国运送数千升的鲜奶，公司已在2月份表示，为了促销产品，它打算与“最重要的代购渠道”密切合作。
The students can often be found in the aisles of Chemist Warehouse, a major drugstore chain, with smartphones in hand, ticking off items on shopping lists while filling suitcases full of products such as concentrated cranberry extract, marketed by the Australian natural health company Blackmores for promoting urinary tract health.
在大药房连锁店Chemist Warehouse的货架之间的走道上，也经常能看到中国留学生，他们手持智能手机，按照购物清单买东西，把携带的箱子装得满慢的，其中有诸如澳大利亚天然保健品公司Blackmores销售的浓缩蔓越莓提取物等产品，公司宣称该产品能促进尿道健康。
Mario Tascone, the chief operating officer of Chemist Warehouse, said the daigou favored its stores because they offered competitive prices and could fill large orders. The chain also sells directly on the Chinese e-commerce platform TMall, but many customers prefer to place their orders with students.
Chemist Warehouse的首席运营官马里奥·塔斯科内(Mario Tascone)说，代购喜欢去这家连锁店，因为它们提供有竞争力的价格，并能满足大订单。该连锁店也在中国电子商务平台天猫上直接销售，但很多客户喜欢通过留学生代买。
“They trust the daigou more,” said Scarlett Liang, 18, an accounting and economics student at Trinity College in Melbourne. “They want to be convinced of the authenticity of the product.”
“他们更信任代购，”18岁的斯卡雷特·梁(Scarlett Liang)说，她在墨尔本三一学院读会计和经济学专业。“需要说服他们产品的真实性。”
The larger daigou businesses often buy in bulk directly from a manufacturer like Blackmores at a discount, then sell supplies to smaller student operators at a markup.
较大的代购企业经常从Blackmores等制造商那里以折扣价批量购买产品，然后加成转卖给较小的学生经营者。
Express delivery companies that specialize in shipping to China are now dotted throughout major Australian cities to keep up. One of the more popular companies, Chang Jiang International Express, which describes itself as a “direct train from Australia to China,” sends about 400 tons of products to mainland China each month, according to its operations manager, Lu Wang.
在澳大利亚主要城市，已经有了一些专门向中国发货的快递公司。长江国际速递(Chang Jiang International Express)自称是“澳大利亚直达中国的列车”，其运营经理王露（音）介绍，该公司每月向中国大陆发送约400吨商品。
Recently, fresh fruit has been in demand. “Each year in cherry season, the Chinese start asking for more Australian cherries,” said Angel Nie, 20, a student who studies politics at the University of Melbourne.“They’re very expensive, but the Chinese say, ‘I just want fresh and full-of-vitamin cherries.’”
最近，顾客对新鲜水果的需求较大。墨尔本大学20岁的政治学学生安吉尔·聂(Angel Nie)说：“每到吃樱桃的季节，中国人都想要买更多的澳大利亚樱桃 。樱桃价格很贵，但是中国人说，‘我只想要新鲜的、维生素充足的樱桃。’”
But Ms. Nie said she dropped out of the business last year because she was not paying taxes, never obtained any licenses and worried it was “kind of like smuggling.”
但聂女士表示，去年因为没有缴纳税款，没有获得任何执照，担心这“有点像走私”，她已经放弃了这门生意。
Because most payments are processed on WeChat and other Chinese platforms, the authorities in Australia rely on students to declare the income themselves. Some daigou also offer lower prices by evading Chinese import duties, and there are occasional reports of arrests in China.
由于大部分付款是通过微信和其他中国平台完成的，所以澳大利亚当局需要学生自己申报收入。一些代购也通过避开中国的进口关税来降低价格，时不时会有人在中国被捕。
“There’s quite a few that have grown into quite substantial operations, and there’d be quite a lot where they’re perhaps flying under the radar,” said Paul Drum, the head of policy at CPA Australia, the national association of accountants.
澳大利亚会计师公会(CPA Australia)的政策主管保罗·德拉姆(Paul Drum)表示：“有相当多的代购已经发展成为颇具规模的生意，而且可能还有很多代购在私下进行。”
Last year, the Agriculture Department said it was investigating individuals suspected of shipping infant formula to China without meeting export requirements. Small exports of baby formula are legal, but shipments over 10 kilograms must come from registered export companies with health certificates, and meet Chinese import regulations, a spokesman said.
去年，农业部表示在对一些不符合出口要求却涉嫌将婴儿配方奶粉运往中国的个人进行调查。该部发言人说，出口少量婴儿配方奶粉是合法的，但是要出货10公斤以上，就必须是拥有健康证明的注册出口公司才行，并且需要符合中国的进口规定。
Daigou on student visas in Australia are also permitted to work only 40 hours every two weeks. Running an informal export business in excess of those hours may violate the terms of their visas, according to Rachel Drew, a partner at the law firm Holding Redlich.
拥有澳大利亚大学签证的学生只允许每两周工作40小时。豪力律师事务所(Holding Redlich)的合伙人雷切尔·德鲁(Rachel Drew)表示，超过规定时间的非正式出口业务可能会违反签证条款。
But Ms. Zhang expressed confidence that the market would continue to expand even as regulators caught up and Australian companies established new channels to sell directly to Chinese customers.
但张女士相信，即便随着监管机构的跟进，澳大利亚公司建立起直接向中国客户销售产品的新渠道，这个市场还是会继续扩大。
“Everyone’s got family and friends, and therefore their own customers,” she said. “That’s why there are so many daigou around.”
“每个人都有家人和朋友，因此有自己的客户。”她说，“这就是为什么有这么多代购的原因。”