SYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, who emerged triumphantly from the political wilderness to regain Australia’s leadership this year, is battling widespread predictions of a defeat in federal elections on Saturday that would bring an end to his party’s tumultuous six years in power.
澳大利亚悉尼——澳大利亚总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)于今年成功摆脱政治荒年，重获总理职位。目前，陆克文正在挑战人们的广泛预测，即他将在周六举行的联邦大选中失败，他所在政党动荡不安的六年执政生涯也将因此终结。
The contest pits Mr. Rudd, of the Labor Party, against Tony Abbott, the leader of the conservative opposition Liberal-National coalition. Mr. Rudd, who served as prime minister from 2007 to 2010, returned to the leadership in June after a nearly two-year campaign by his supporters culminated in a party coup that dispatched the country’s first female prime minister, Julia Gillard.
竞争的一方是工党(Labor Party)的陆克文，另一方则是保守派反对党自由党-国家党联盟(Liberal-National coalition)的领袖托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)。陆克文曾在2007至2010年间担任总理，并于今年6月重新当选总理。在此之前，其支持者展开了一场为时将近两年的运动，运动以党内政变告终，导致该国首位女总理茱莉亚·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)下台。
But the Labor Party, which dumped Ms. Gillard in the hopes of averting a landslide loss that would devastate its ranks in Parliament, has struggled to shake an image that it is more focused on personal feuds than on pressing issues like the slowing of Australia’s mining-driven economy and the record number of asylum seekers trying to reach the country in dangerous and overcrowded boats.
工党抛弃吉拉德是希望避免溃败，这种溃败会削弱该党在议会的地位。但工党难以改变自己在人们心目中的形象，即他们更关注个人恩怨，而不是一些紧迫问题，比如，由矿业推动的澳大利亚经济发展已经放缓，试图乘坐危险及过度拥挤的船只到达澳大利亚的避难者的人数已创新高。
Although Mr. Rudd’s return led to a bounce in support for Labor, which has led a minority government since its poor showing in the last federal elections in 2010, polls indicate that surge has now evaporated. And in a remarkable reversal for Mr. Rudd, a man once considered Australia’s most popular politician, analysts say the question is not whether the Labor Party will lose, but by how much, and whether he may be among the casualties; Mr. Rudd is facing a tough fight over his own seat in Parliament.
工党在上次大选，也就是2010年联邦大选中表现糟糕，之后便一直领导着一个少数派政府。虽然陆克文的回归促使工党的支持率有所回升，但民意调查表明，这种上升趋势已经不复存在。陆克文曾被视作澳大利亚最受欢迎的政治人物。但分析人士的口气已经发生惊人逆转，他们表示，问题不是工党是否会失败，而是失败的惨重程度，以及陆克文是否会成为受害者。陆克文目前面临激烈竞争，需要努力保住自己在议会的席位。
In a survey released on Monday by Newspoll, based on polling from Aug. 30 to Sept. 1 among about 1,110 voters, Mr. Abbott was shown for the first time to have overtaken Mr. Rudd as the nation’s preferred prime minister by 43 percent to 41 percent, although the difference between them is within the poll’s margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Newspoll周一公布的调查显示，阿博特首次以43%的支持率超过支持率为41%的陆克文，成为该国民众倾向选择的总理，尽管两人的差别还在正负三个百分点的抽样误差范围内。前述结果基于8月30日至9月1日期间对大约1110名选民的调查。
The same poll showed Labor trailing the opposition coalition, 54 percent to 46 percent. That result would prove disastrous for Mr. Rudd and deliver a resounding majority in Parliament for Mr. Abbott.
该调查还显示，工党落后于反对派联盟，两者支持率分别为46%和54%。对于陆克文来说，这个结果将会是一场灾难，而对于阿博特来说，这意味着他将获得绝大多数议会席位。
“Maybe our Lord will materialize and touch the forehead of Kevin Rudd and anoint him his chosen representative on earth,” said Rick Kuhn, a professor of politics at Australian National University in Canberra. “But short of that, I don’t think it’s going to happen.”
堪培拉澳大利亚国立大学的政治学教授里克·库恩(Rick Kuhn)说，“也许上帝会显灵，摸着陆克文的额头，把他选定为自己在人间的代言人。不过，上帝不显灵的话，我认为他赢不了。”
Saturday’s election will mark the end of the longest campaign season in modern Australian history. The contest, although officially declared by Mr. Rudd last month, has effectively been under way since January, when Ms. Gillard announced, unusually early, that the vote would be held in September. That opened an acrimonious nine-month political slog during which Ms. Gillard’s popularity, and support within her own party, collapsed.
周六的选举将标志着澳大利亚现代史上最长的竞选季的结束。今年1月，吉拉德非比寻常地提早宣布，投票将在今年9月举行，自那时起，竞争实际上就一直在进行，尽管直到上个月，陆克文才正式宣布竞选开始。竞选的提早进行开启了一段长达九个月的激烈政治对抗，在此期间，吉拉德的人气和党内支持度一落千丈。
Mr. Rudd came back into office promising a kinder, gentler brand of politics in place of the famously adversarial relationship between Ms. Gillard and Mr. Abbott. Indeed, Mr. Abbott is perhaps best known outside Australia for a blistering speech Ms. Gillard delivered in Parliament last year, in which she called him a misogynist and a sexist with “repulsive double standards.”
重新上台的时候，陆克文承诺要实现一种更宽容、更温和的政治局面，以取代吉拉德和阿博特之间广为人知的敌对关系。实际上，在澳大利亚之外，阿博特最知名的形象兴许来自吉拉德于去年在议会发表的那篇措辞激烈的演讲，她在演讲里称阿博特是一个厌恶女性的人，一个秉持着“令人反感的双重标准”的性别歧视者。
A former Roman Catholic seminarian with socially conservative stances on abortion and gay marriage, Mr. Abbott is closer ideologically to the American Republican Party than to European conservatives like Prime Minister David Cameron’s Tories in Britain.
阿博特曾是罗马天主教神学院学生，在关于堕胎和同性恋婚姻的社会问题上采取保守的立场，在意识形态上，他更接近于美国的共和党成员，而非欧洲的保守派，比如英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)所在的托利党(Tories，即保守党)成员。
He has made the repeal of a carbon-trading plan passed by Ms. Gillard the centerpiece of his campaign, and as recently as 2009 he denied the existence of climate change caused by humans.
他把撤销吉拉德通过的碳交易计划作为他的竞选核心，直到2009年，他仍然拒绝承认，存在由人类活动引起的气候变化。
Opinion polls show that Australians overwhelmingly support both abortion rights and legalizing same-sex marriage and accept the majority scientific opinion that human activity has contributed to climate change.
民意调查显示，绝大多数澳大利亚人支持堕胎权和同性婚姻合法化，并且认同多数派的科学见解，即人类活动已经对气候变化造成了影响。
Owing at least in part to his conservative views, and because he is not known as a naturally gifted speaker, Mr. Abbott has struggled to connect with voters.
阿博特在和选民建立联系方面举步维艰，这至少有部分要归咎于他的保守观点，还有一个原因是，他并不以演讲天赋著称。
Still, Mr. Abbott’s hard-nosed political skills have allowed him to capitalize on the perception that Labor has lost its way as a party, said John Wanna, a political science professor at Australian National University.
尽管如此，澳大利亚国立大学教授约翰·万纳(John Wanna)说，阿博特还是凭借精明的政治技巧利用了众人的看法，也就是说，作为一个政党，工党已经迷失了方向。
“I think one of the big messages from this time, when we look back in history, will be that Labor spent four years tearing itself apart, and I think the electorate has gotten tired of that,” Mr. Wanna said.
万纳说，“我认为，当我们回顾历史时，此次竞选带给我们的重要讯息之一就是，工党花了四年时间瓦解自己，我想，选民已经对此感到厌倦了。”