CANBERRA, Australia — Australia plans to resume searching for Malaysia Airlines’ missing Flight 370 to the southwest of the area in the Indian Ocean where the seafloor was scanned in detail last month, Australian officials say.
澳大利亚堪培拉——澳大利亚官员表示，该国计划继续在印度洋海域对马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)失踪的370航班进行搜寻，方位在上个月进行了海床仔细搜索的区域的西南面。
The shift to the southwest reflects analyses of a series of electronic “handshakes” between the Boeing 777-200 and a satellite operated by the London-based company Inmarsat in the hours after the plane vanished before dawn on March 8 during a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing with 239 people aboard.
这架波音777-200型客机从马来西亚吉隆坡起飞，载着239人飞往北京，于3月8日凌晨消失。在此后的几个小时里，飞机与伦敦卫星通讯公司Inmarsat所运营的一颗卫星进行了一系列电子“握手”。此次搜索区域向西南方向转移，反映了对这些握手信号的分析结果。
The satellite data, suggesting that the aircraft turned south across the Indian Ocean after skirting the northern tip of the Indonesian island of Sumatra, remains the best lead that investigators have in trying to find the plane, said Angus Houston, the retired chief of the Australian military who is overseeing the search.
卫星数据显示，飞机绕过印度尼西亚苏门答腊岛的最北端后，曾向南转向，飞越印度洋。澳大利亚军方退役将领、此次搜寻任务的负责人安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)表示，这仍然是调查者在搜寻飞机的过程中持有的最佳线索。
“We’re going to have to go deep and do a comprehensive look at the ocean floor,” he said, later adding, “The handshakes are the most robust information we have at the moment.”
“我们必须继续深入，对海床进行全面搜索，”他说。他还表示，“那些电子握手是我们目前掌握的最有力的信息。”
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau hired a private company, Fugro Survey, on June 10 to conduct a three-month survey of the ocean floor along the arc of possible final locations derived from the satellite data. The bureau is also seeking tenders by the end of the month for a commercial contractor to deploy a towed deep-sea submersible to scour the seafloor; Mr. Houston said that the towing operation would not need to wait for the completion of the undersea mapping but could start this summer.
6月10日，澳大利亚交通安全局(The Australian Transport Safety Bureau)聘请私人公司辉固调查(Fugro Survey)沿着飞机可能的最后地点的弧线进行为期三个月的搜寻。这条弧线是根据卫星数据测算出来的。澳大利亚交通安全局还在招标，希望在月底前能找到一家商业承包商，部署拖曳式深海潜水设备，对海底进行详细搜索。休斯顿说，拖曳式搜索不需要等海底绘图工作结束，今年夏天就可以开始。
Australia’s own long-range, over-the-horizon radar, known as the Jindalee Operational Radar Network, was not focused on the area where the plane apparently flew and did not detect it, he said. Investigators have also not gleaned any useful clues, he said, from an undersea thud detected by acoustic researchers at Curtin University, near Perth, Australia, that roughly coincided with the time when the plane stopped its electronic handshakes and appears to have run out of fuel.
他还称，金达利作战雷达网(Jindalee Operational Radar Network)，即澳大利亚本国的远程超视距雷达系统当时没有关注这架飞机可能经过的区域，亦未能侦测到它。调查人员也没有从一次水下撞击声中找到任何有用的线索。探测到这个撞击声的是澳大利亚珀斯附近的科廷大学(Curtin University)的声学研究者，时间差不多是在这架飞机停止电子握手，似乎耗尽燃料的时候。
An Australian vessel, the Ocean Shield, did an exhaustive search last month of a small section of seafloor in the northeast half of the arc of possible final locations for the plane. The search was conducted after the ship detected sounds there that were initially interpreted as locator pings from the aircraft’s so-called black boxes, sounds that were later reanalyzed and found not to be the pings.
澳大利亚船只“海盾号”(Ocean shield)上个月对飞机潜在坠海点所在圆弧的东北半段的小片海床进行了非常细致的搜索。开展这项工作是因为，此前“海盾号”曾在那里探测到声音，并被认为是飞机的黑匣子发出的定位脉冲信号。不过，后来经过重新分析，又发现这些声音并非黑匣子的脉冲信号。
Chris McLaughlin, an Inmarsat vice president in London, said Tuesday in a telephone interview that the satellite company did not fault searchers for pursuing those signals, which were detected in April to the northeast of the zone identified by Inmarsat’s calculations.
Inmarsat驻伦敦的副总裁克里斯·麦克劳克林(Chris McLaughlin)周二在电话采访中说，Inmarsat不会指责搜寻工作者追踪这些信号的做法。4月，搜索人员在Inmarsat估算的区域的东北部监测到了这些信号。
“The Inmarsat model indicated a more southerly reach for MH370 than the earlier pickup of pings appeared to suggest,” Mr. McLaughlin said. “Four other independent analyses of the data,” conducted by experts at Boeing, the French electronics group Thales and investigators in Australia and Malaysia, “have also indicated a more southerly position, closer to the seventh arc” calculated from the final signal Inmarsat’s satellite received from the plane, he said.
“Inmarsat的模型说明，MH370的坠海点可能比人们早些时候探测到的脉冲信号所显示的地方更加靠南，” 麦克劳克林说。他还称，波音公司和法国电子集团泰雷兹(Thales)的专家，以及澳大利亚和马来西亚的调查人员“对这些数据所做的另外四项独立分析也表明，位置还要往南，在更靠近第七条弧线的地方”。这条弧线根据Inmarsat的卫星从飞机上接收的最后信号测算而来。
“So we believe the next stage of the search will be concentrated around the outcome of this data,” Mr. McLaughlin said.
“所以我们认为，搜索的下一阶段将围绕这些数据的计算结果展开，”麦克劳克林说。
On Tuesday, the BBC quoted officials at Inmarsat who said that while Australia had understandably paid considerable attention to the detected sounds, Inmarsat’s modeling of the satellite handshakes had long showed the highest-probability zone for the aircraft’s final location as lying farther to the southwest.
周二，BBC援引Inmarsat管理人员的话说，虽然澳大利亚对探测到的声音表示极大关注的做法无可厚非，但Inmarsat对卫星握手信号的模型早就表明，飞机最可能的最后地点要更加偏向西南。
But Inmarsat said in a statement on Tuesday, “Because there are many uncertainties due to the lack of aircraft performance and tracking data, a specific final location in the Southern Ocean cannot be identified.”
然而，Inmarsat在周二的声明中称，“由于缺乏飞机性能和追踪方面的数据，所以有许多不确定的地方，目前仍无法确定飞机在南冰洋的确切的最后地点。”
Australian officials said that their next priority was to map the ocean floor in enough detail that the deep-sea submersible could be safely towed for long distances at a fairly brisk speed in the coming months with little risk that it will slam into previously undetected seamounts.
澳大利亚官员称，他们下一步的首要任务是详细绘制海洋地形图，以便在未来几个月里深海潜水设备能在保证安全的情况下以较快速度进行长距离拖曳，尽量减少撞上没有事先发现的海底山的风险。
Australia has no plans for any further searches from the air for floating debris, having concluded that any debris would have sunk by now or would have spent so much time in the water that it would no longer be recognizable as having come from the plane. “After a period of time, nearly everything sinks, including seat cushions and so on, because they become so waterlogged,” Mr. Houston said.
澳大利亚断定，时至今日，全部残骸均已沉入水底，或是因为在水里泡了这么长时间而无法被认出来自失踪飞机，因而不打算进一步从空中搜寻漂浮的残骸。 “经过一段时间，因为浸水太严重，包括座椅坐垫等在内的几乎所有东西都沉下去了，” 休斯敦说。
When an Air France flight crashed off the coast of Brazil in 2009, considerable debris was visible on the ocean’s surface for the first few days, but nothing was left on the surface by the 16th day, and by the 26th day the visual search was halted.
当法国航空公司(Air France)的一架航班2009年在巴西沿海坠毁时，头几天还能在海面看到大量残骸，但到了第16天，水面上就什么都没有了，到第26天，视觉搜寻即告停止。
In the early days of the search for the Malaysia Airlines plane, one of the worries was that the plane might have landed on a smooth patch of sea somewhere and then sunk, in which case it might have left no floating debris for airborne searchers to find.
在马航飞机搜寻工作的早期，一个担心是，飞机可能降落在了某片平滑的海域，然后沉入水中。在这种情况下，就可能不会留下空中搜索人员要寻找的漂浮残骸。
But now the possibility, however small, that the plane might have sunk intact is actually the best-case scenario for searchers. An intact aircraft would be less difficult to find on the vast expanses of the ocean floor than one that had broken into many pieces upon hitting the water.
实际上，现在对搜寻人员而言，不管可能性有多小， 飞机完好无损地沉入了海底反而变成了最好的情况。在广阔的海床上，相比于落水时裂成许多碎片，完整的飞机更易找到。
Such pieces would have descended at different rates and in different directions based on their size, shape and water resistance as they glided or tumbled through water as deep as six kilometers, or nearly four miles.
根据大小、形状以及在深达六公里的水中滑行或翻滚时水的阻力的不同，这些碎片的下沉速率和方向各不相同。
“We could be confronted with a very dispersed debris field,” Rear Adm. Trevor Jones of the Royal Australian Navy said in an interview on Monday.
“我们可能会面临一片非常分散的残骸区，” 澳大利亚皇家海军的少将特雷沃尔·琼斯(Trevor Jones)周一接受采访时说。
A further worry has to do with the topography of the seafloor. When the Air France jet crashed, it came to rest on a fairly level sandy plain at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, which facilitated recovery of both black boxes: the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder.
更让人担忧的一点与海床的地形有关。法航那架飞机坠海后，沉到了大西洋海底一片相当平坦的沙质平地上。这一点为找回驾驶舱语音记录器和飞行数据记录器这两个黑匣子提供了便利。
By contrast, sizable areas of the Indian Ocean seafloor where the plane might be located are crisscrossed with hills and ravines and with silt dozens of meters deep in some places. One of the concerns, Australian officials said, is that the black boxes may have plunged deep into the silt, even as lighter articles like clothing may have drifted down slowly and settled on the silt’s surface.
相比之下，在马航飞机可能所在的印度洋海床，有相当大的区域山岭沟壑纵横交错，一些地方还有几十米深的淤泥。澳大利亚官员表示，一个担心是，黑匣子可能扎进了淤泥深处，而像衣服那样的更轻的物体可能会慢慢下沉，落到淤泥表面。
Deep-sea submersibles like the United States Navy’s Bluefin-21, which the Ocean Shield towed last month, have sonar that can penetrate light silt suspended in the water at the ocean floor but may not be able to penetrate thick layers of denser silt.
类似“海盾号”上月拖拽的美国海军“蓝鳍-21”(Bluefin-21)那样的深海潜水器的声纳能够穿透进海底悬浮的较稀的淤泥，但也许无法进入更浓稠的淤泥深层。
Australian officials and oceanographers say that silt drifting down on the debris is very unlikely to cover it up in the months and years to come. The rate of deposition is extremely slow, as little as one or two micrometers a year in some areas, a tiny fraction of the thickness of a human hair.
澳大利亚官员和海洋学家表示，会顺着残骸表面下沉的淤泥在今后几个月乃至几年将其掩埋起来的可能性非常小。淤泥的沉积速率非常缓慢，在一些地区一年只会有一两微米，而这个厚度只是人类毛发直径的零头。
Deposition may be a little faster in the more southerly areas now slated to be searched, as upwelling cold water may sustain more life in the ocean waters above. But the rate of deposition still should not be fast enough to bury debris, said Robin Robertson, an oceanographer at the Australian Defense Force Academy here in Canberra.
在即将展开搜寻工作的更偏南的区域，沉积速度可能会稍微快一点，因为上涌的冷水可能会在上层海水中供养更多生命。但堪培拉澳大利亚国防学院(Australian Defense Force Academy)的海洋学家罗宾·罗伯逊(Robin Robertson)表示，那里的沉积速率依然不足以掩埋残骸。
Group Captain Craig Heap, the Royal Australian Air Force officer who oversaw the airborne search of large swaths of the Indian Ocean in late March and through April, said that aircraft from Australia, China, Malaysia, New Zealand, South Korea and the United States had logged about 3,000 hours of flying time during the search for debris, including nearly 900 hours of flying over remote areas of ocean where the plane might have come down.
在3月末和整个4月负责从空中对印度洋大片地区进行搜索的澳大利亚皇家空军上校克雷格·希普(Craig Heap)表示，在残骸搜索期间，来自澳大利亚、中国、马来西亚、新西兰、韩国和美国的飞机记录的飞行时间约为3000小时，其中包括在飞机可能坠落的偏远海域上空飞行的近900小时。
“We’re still very disappointed, and always will be, that we didn’t find anything,” he said, while adding that the search had nonetheless been unusual in producing cooperation among military aviators from China, Japan and South Korea — countries that have had considerable frictions lately over air and maritime sovereignty issues in the East China Sea.
“我们依然很失望，而且总是会失望，因为我们什么都没找到，”他说。但他也称，此次搜索让来自中国、日本和韩国的军事飞行员相互合作，在这一点上，此次搜索是不同寻常的。最近，围绕东海的空中和海上主权问题，这三个国家之间出现了严重的分歧。
Mr. Houston expressed optimism that the missing plane would eventually be found. But other Australian officials voiced worries that the combination of silt on the ocean floor and the dispersion of debris and the uncertainties about the final flight path may not make it feasible for years, if ever, to find the aircraft and recover its black boxes.
休斯敦对失踪飞机最终会被找到表示乐观。但其他一些澳大利亚官员表示，由于海床上泥沙淤积，再加上残骸分散，而且飞机最后的飞行路线也不明确，所以即使能找到失事飞机，寻回黑匣子，可能也是多年后的事情了。