Australia has always been one of the United States’ most loyal allies, but now that the Australian economy depends mightily on the sale of iron ore to China, attitudes are a little more blurred. So perhaps it is not surprising that a provocative thesis — that the United States should share power with China in the Asia-Pacific region — should come from a former Australian government defense official.
澳大利亚一直是美国最忠诚的盟友之一，但由于澳大利亚经济严重依赖对华的铁矿石出口贸易，澳大利亚的态度如今有点模糊。那么，澳大利亚的一名前国防官员提出一个可能激怒美国的观点——美国应该在亚太地区与中国分享权力——也就不足为奇了。
In “The China Choice: Why America Should Share Power,” Hugh White, the principal author of Australia’s 2000 Defense White Paper and now a professor of strategic studies at Australian National University, argues that by accommodating China, the United States would reduce what he sees as the escalating chance of war. Far from being appeasement, as some in Washington argue, this would be a realistic solution, in Mr. White’s view, to what many see as the overriding question of the coming decades: how China and the United States will resolve their basic differences.
在《中国抉择：美国为什么应该分享权力》(The China Choice: Why America Should Share Power)一书中，澳大利亚2000年国防白皮书的主要作者、澳大利亚国立大学(Australian National University)战略研究学教授休·怀特(Hugh White)称，通过照顾中国的利益，美国将会降低在他看来不断增长的爆发战争的可能性。怀特认为，这绝不是华盛顿某些人所说的绥靖政策，而是一种现实的解决办法，它能够解决许多人眼中的未来几十年的主要问题：中国和美国将如何解决它们的根本分歧。
If the two countries continue to compete for primacy in the Pacific, a new Cold War — or worse, an open conflict — will be the result, he says. Many American analysts agree that conflict between China and the United States is possible, maybe increasingly likely. But few buy the argument that the United States is losing ground to China and must consider a power-sharing arrangement to avoid war.
他说，如果这两个国家继续在太平洋争夺主导地位，结果将是一场新的冷战——或者更糟，一场公开的冲突。许多美国分析人士同意，中美两国间是有可能发生冲突的，而且可能性或许还在不断上升。但是，几乎没有人认为，美国正在中国面前遭受挫败，并必须考虑一个分享权力的方案才能避免战争。
“The strategic rivalry between the United States and China is driven by their different and incompatible roles in the region,” Mr. White said during a recent visit to Beijing, where he spoke to several academic groups, including a generally favorable audience organized by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. “The principal aim of the United States is to preserve American primacy in Asia. China conversely wants, as a minimum objective, at least an equal role with United States. Primacy for the United States, equality for China — they are inherently incompatible.”
“美国和中国在该地区扮演着不同且不兼容的角色，这驱动了两国的战略对抗，”怀特在最近访问北京时说。他在北京与几个学术团体进行了对话，包括由中国社会科学院组织的一批基本上并无异议的听众。“美国的主要目的是保持在亚洲的主导地位。而与之相反，中国的最低目标至少是与美国平起平坐。美国想要独大，中国想要平等，这本身就是不兼容的。”
Mr. White outlines a chilling view of what could happen in the East China Sea in the territorial dispute between China and Japan over the islands known as the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan.
中国和日本在东海对几座岛屿存在领土争端，这些岛屿在中国被称作钓鱼岛，在日本被称作尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)。怀特对这场争端中可能发生的局面，描述了一个令人担忧的前景。
“China is seeking to use the island dispute to demonstrate to the rest of Asia that the United States cannot support its allies in Asia in the face of China’s growing power,” Mr. White said. The willingness of China to press Japan over the islands — sending close-in sea patrols, refusing to talk until Japan softens its position — suggests “a high level of confidence that America won’t support Japan,” he said.
怀特说，“中国正寻求利用岛屿争端向亚洲其他国家证明，面对中国日益增强的实力，美国也保护不了其亚洲盟友。”他说，中国愿意就岛屿问题向日本施压，如派遣舰只近距离巡逻，在日本软化立场前拒绝交流，这意味着，中国“有很高的把握，相信美国不会支持日本”。
The Chinese, he warned, are “seriously underestimating” Washington’s resolve to back Japan, he said.
他警告说，中国“严重低估”了华盛顿支持日本的决心。
Here is one possible scenario: Mr. White puts the risk of an exchange of fire that would result in ship being sunk or a plane shot down by either Japan or China in the East China Sea at 20 percent. That may not sound like much of a risk, but given the horrendous consequences should this happen, it is greater than it may sound, he said.
怀特提出了一种可能性：他把双方在东海交火的风险定在20%，交火中，中方或日方会击沉对方舰只、击落对方飞机。他说，这个风险听起来不算大，但是考虑到它将造成的恐怖后果，其风险比表面上看起来要高。
“That 20 percent is a very high probability for something which has such outcomes,” he said. Should such a confrontation occur, the chance of Japan seeking American support would be 90 percent, he estimates, and the chance of the United States providing that support would be 95 percent. The probability of a conflict between China and Japan then escalating into war between the United States and China is high, he said.
他说，“对于可能导致此类后果的事件，20%的几率已经非常高了。”他估计，一旦发生这样的对抗，日本寻求美国支援的概率将达到90%，而美国提供支持的概率为95%。他说，中国和日本的冲突升级为美中之间战争的可能性很高。
Mr. White is hardly a gadfly. From 1995 to 2000 he held senior positions in the Australian Department of Defense, including deputy secretary for strategy and intelligence. Because of Australia’s close alliance with the United States, and the high degree of shared intelligence, Mr. White was privy to America’s secrets during his time in government.
怀特并不是一个不受欢迎的人。从1995年到2000年，他在澳大利亚国防部担任过多个高级职位，其中包括分管战略和情报的副秘书。由于澳大利亚与美国之间亲密的盟友关系，以及两国之间高度的情报共享，怀特在政府任职期间能够了解美国的一些秘密。
He has worked with many officials in Washington, so for that reason alone his argument has been attracting attention. The Asia Society has shortlisted “The China Choice” for this year’s Bernard Schwartz Book Award, which honors works that explain contemporary Asia or U.S.-Asia relations to general audiences. (The winner is to be announced at the end of October). His thesis, he acknowledges, falls into the category of the stimulating, rather than the popular.
怀特与华盛顿的许多官员共事过，就凭这一个原因，他的观点就吸引了很多关注。亚洲协会(Asia Society)将《中国抉择》列入了今年伯纳德·施瓦茨图书奖(Bernard Schwartz Book Award)的入围短名单。该奖项主要颁发给向大众解释当代亚洲，或美国与亚洲关系的著作。（获奖者将于10月底公布。）他承认，他的观点的确属于很刺激但并不流行的类型。
“ ‘I don’t agree with you, but let’s go and have lunch,’ ” is how he describes the reaction in Washington so far. “Many American officials believe U.S. exceptionalism will prevail.”
美国官员的反应是，“我不同意你的看法，不过咱们还是可以一起吃个午饭，”他说。“许多美国官员认为，美国的特殊地位将会胜出。”
From 1985 to 1990, Mr. White worked as a private secretary to Kim Beazley, who was then minister of defense and is now the Australian ambassador to the United States. The two are good friends. Does Mr. Beazley agree with him?
1985年到1990年，怀特曾担任时任国防部长金·比兹利(Kim Beazley)的私人秘书。比兹利目前是澳大利亚驻联合国大使。两人是好朋友。那么，比兹利是否同意他的看法？
“He does not buy my argument,” Mr. White said. “He can’t imagine a world where the United States doesn’t have the biggest economy and the strongest military.”
“他不同意我的观点，”怀特说。“他无法想象一个美国没有最强的经济和军事实力的世界。”
In Asia, though, Mr. White’s argument is gaining support and, in some quarters, direct echoes, especially in the wake of President Obama’s recent absence from the Asian summit meetings in Indonesia and Brunei.
然而，在亚洲，怀特的观点赢得了支持，在一些地区，甚至有人完全赞同，尤其是在奥巴马最近缺席了印度尼西亚和文莱的亚洲峰会之后。
“Washington will be better off negotiating new power-sharing arrangements with Beijing, instead of seeking to contain the rise of China by rounding up its allies and friends in the region,” wrote Sabam Siagian and Endy M. Bayuni, two prominent Indonesian writers and former Nieman fellows at Harvard, in an opinion piece in The Jakarta Post last week. “Asia would welcome a U.S. policy that will, of necessity, be vastly different from the 2011 pivot, and one that is more realistic and less gung-ho.”
印尼的两位著名作家、前哈佛尼曼学者萨巴姆·西雅坚(Sabam Siagian)和恩迪·M·巴尤尼(Endy M. Bayuni)上周在《雅加达邮报》(The Jakarta Post)的一篇评论文章中写道，“如果华盛顿与北京通过谈判得出一套新的权力分配安排，而不是寻求通过在该地区拉拢盟国和友邦来遏制中国崛起，可能更有利于美国。”文中还说，“亚洲欢迎的美国政策，势必要与2011年的‘转向亚洲’有很大不同，而且要多一些现实，少一些狂热。”
Sounds like Mr. White lite.
这仿佛是怀特观点的简化版。