Investigators are examining whether material that washed ashore near the southern end of Western Australia might have a connection to the Malaysia Airlines aircraft that has been missing for a month and a half, Australian search organizers said on Wednesday.
澳大利亚组织搜索工作的人周三称，调查人员正在仔细检查一些被冲到西澳大利亚南端附近海滩上的物体是否可能与马来西亚航空公司的一架飞机有关，该飞机已经失踪了一个半月。
Since the plane disappeared on March 8, the search for it has been punctuated by sightings of possible wreckage, only for each potential find to be disproved when the objects have been recovered. The brief announcement from the Australian agency overseeing the hunt in the southern Indian Ocean gave no clues about what the newest material was or why it had piqued investigators’ curiosity.
自从这架飞机于3月8日失踪之后，搜寻它的工作时而找到一些可能的残骸，但每次的潜在发现都在物体被打捞上来后排除了可能性。来自负责管理这项南印度洋搜索工作的澳大利亚机构的简短宣布，没有对这些最新物体是什么提供任何线索，也没有说明物体为何引起调查者的兴趣。
The agency, called the Joint Agency Coordination Center, said in an email that the material had turned up 10 kilometers, or 6.2 miles, east of Augusta, a township in Western Australia. Searchers have been looking for traces of the plane in waters much further northwest.
澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center)在一封电子邮件中表示，物体出现在距离西澳大利亚奥古斯塔镇东部约10公里远的地方。搜索人员一直在该镇西北方向更远的水域中寻找这架飞机的踪迹。
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau was “examining photographs of the material to determine whether further physical analysis is required and if there is any relevance to the search of missing flight MH370,” the search center said. It added that it would release more information “if, and when, it becomes available.”
协调中心称，澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)正在“检查这写物体的照片，以确定是否需要做进一步的实物分析，以及物体与失踪的马来西亚航空公司370航班是否有任何关系。” 该中心还说，“如果有新信息的话，在适当的时候”将会有更多的发布。
Augusta is more than 1,100 miles from the patch of ocean where a Royal Australian Navy ship, the Ocean Shield, has been operating an unmanned submersible vehicle, the Bluefin-21, which is scanning the seafloor for signs of the missing plane, and in particular the two flight recorders that are crucial to determining why the plane apparently veered so drastically off course.
奥古斯塔距离澳大利亚皇家海军(Royal Australian Navy ship)舰艇“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)进行搜索的水域有1700多公里之遥，“海盾号”正用“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)自主水下航行器在海底寻找这架飞机的踪迹，特别是那两个飞行记录器，找到记录器对确定这架飞机为何突然严重偏离航线至关重要。
The plane, a Boeing 777-200, took off from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, en route to Beijing, but then veered off course and continued flying, according to radar data.
这架波音777-200型客机从马来西亚吉隆坡起飞，在飞往北京的途中，偏离航线后，据雷达数据分析，继续飞行。
Investigators have said the best lead to the plane’s whereabouts remain four sets of signals — believed to be from beacons attached to the flight recorders — picked up on April 5 and April 8 by the Ocean Shield using a towed pinger locator. But no debris linked to the missing flight has been found, and the Bluefin-21, which is close to completing the underwater search in a circle with a six-mile radius around one of the detected pings, has found no sign of the plane.
调查人员表示，有关这架飞机下落的最佳线索仍是“海盾号”在4月5日和4月8日使用一个拖曳式脉冲信号定位器接收到的4组信号，这些信号被认为来自这架飞机的飞行记录器上的信标。但是人们尚未找到任何与这架失踪飞机有关的碎片，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”也还没有找到这架飞机的任何踪迹，该自主水下航行器在以检测到信号之一为圆心的、半径9公里的范围内转着圈寻找飞机残骸，即将完成搜索任务。
At a news conference in Canberra, the Australian capital, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said he remained confident that the plane’s wreckage was somewhere in the area identified by searchers, and he said the hunt there would continue.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)在首都堪培拉的一次新闻发布会上说，他仍有信心认为，这架飞机的残骸在搜索者确定的区域中的某处，他说搜索工作将会继续下去。
“The point I make is that Australia will not rest until we have done everything we humanly can to get to the bottom of this mystery,” he said.
他说，“我要说的是，在为解开这个谜尽了一切可能的力量之前，澳大利亚不会停止搜索工作。”
“We are not going to let down the families of the 239 people who were on that plane by lightly surrendering while there is reasonable hope of finding something,” Mr. Abbott said. “If, at the end of that period, we find nothing, we are not going to abandon the search; we may well rethink the search, but we will not rest until we have done everything we can to solve this mystery.”
阿博特说，“我们不会让这架飞机上239人的家属失望，只要还有能找到点什么东西的合乎情理的希望，我们就不会轻易放弃。如果这个阶段结束后，我们什么都没找到，也不会放弃搜索；我们可以重新思考搜索工作，在尽一切力量解开这个谜之前，我们不会停止。”