HONG KONG — The search area in the Indian Ocean that recovery teams have been scouring for more than a month is likely not the final resting place of a missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner, the Australian task force in charge of the operation said Thursday.
香港——负责搜索失踪马来西亚航空公司370航班的澳大利亚工作小组周四表示，打捞队伍搜索了一个多月的印度洋区域很可能不是这架失踪飞机最终落入的位置。
A United States Navy underwater vehicle has been searching the ocean floor in an area west of the Australian continent since early April, after the detection of pings from what was then believed likely to be the black box recorders of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
自从4月初发现了被认为可能是马航370班机黑匣子记录器发出的脉冲信号之后，一个美国海军潜航器就一直在澳大利亚大陆以西海域的洋底进行搜索。
The Boeing 777-200 aircraft vanished in the early hours of March 8 on a flight from the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. Raw satellite transmission data indicated the plane had veered sharply off course and had headed south into the Indian Ocean.
这架型号为波音777-200的飞机于3月8日凌晨在从马来西亚首都吉隆坡飞往北京的途中失踪。卫星传输的原始数据表明飞机曾偏离航线急转，然后向南飞往印度洋方向。
“The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has advised that the search in the vicinity of the acoustic detections can now be considered complete and in its professional judgment, the area can now be discounted as the final resting place of MH370,” the Australian Joint Agency Coordination Centre said in a statement Thursday.
澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center)周四在一份声明中说：“澳大利亚交通安全局(ATSB)通知，在邻近探测到声学信号水域的搜索工作目前可以认为已经结束，据交通安全局的专业判断，现在可以认为该区域作为马航370最终坠落位置的可靠性不大。”
The area has been the focus of the search since April 5 when an Australian ship, the Ocean Shield, detected a signal from there emitting a frequency suggesting it was from a so-called black box that records flight data and voice transmissions. At the time, Angus Houston, a retired Australian Air Chief Marshal in charge of the operation, urged caution.
自从4月5日澳大利亚舰艇“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)在该区域探测到一个信号以来，这片海域就一直是搜索行动的重点，那个信号的频率暗示其来自所谓的黑匣子，黑匣子里有飞行数据和驾驶舱声音的记录。当时，负责搜索行动的澳大利亚退役空军上将安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)曾呼吁对信号持谨慎态度。
Days later, on April 9, after more signals were detected, however, Mr. Houston told reporters in Perth that “"I’m now optimistic that we will find the aircraft, or what is left of the aircraft, in the not too distant future.” No more signals were detected in subsequent weeks, consistent with the battery life span of the recorders.
但是，几天以后，在更多的信号被探测到之后的4月9日，休斯顿在珀斯对记者说：“现在我很乐观，在不久的将来，我们将找到这架飞机，或飞机残骸。”在接下来的几周里，没有更多的信号被探测到，这与记录器上的电池可以持续的时间相符合。
Thursday’s announcement means that the search will now focus on a much larger swath of ocean than what the U.S. Navy’s Bluefin-21 submersible vehicle has searched since April. The unmanned, torpedo-shaped vehicle has searched more than 328 square miles of the ocean floor, looking for traces of the missing aircraft with its specialized sonar, the Australian statement said. Searchers are also mapping the area’s ocean floor in the area, which can be more than 15,000 feet below the water’s surface.
周四宣布的这一消息意味着，搜索行动的范围将要扩大，将大大超出美国海军的“蓝鳍-21”(Bluefin-21)潜航器从4月份以来一直搜索的区域。这份澳大利亚声明称，美军的形状类似鱼雷的无人驾驶潜航器已经对约850平方公里的洋底进行了搜索，用其携带的专用声呐系统寻找失踪飞机的踪迹。搜索人员也正在绘制该海域的洋底地图，洋底深度可达海面以下4.5公里。
Now the search, which will employ private contractors, will examine a much bigger area encompassing as much as 23,166 square miles, the statement said.
声明表示，今后的搜索工作将靠雇佣私人公司来完成，搜索范围的面积更大，最多可达6万平方公里。
An international team of experts still believes that the plane, carrying 239 people, turned sharply off course in the early morning hours of March 8, went west across Peninsular Malaysia and then out into the Indian Ocean before turning south. Data released Tuesday by the Malaysian government provided further evidence the plane headed south into the Indian Ocean and ran out of fuel. That conclusion was based on an analysis of “electronic handshakes” that the aircraft had been making with a satellite.
国际专家组仍认为这架载有239名乘客和机组人员的飞机于3月8日凌晨突然偏离航线，向西越过马来西亚半岛，然后向南飞往印度洋。马来西亚政府周二公布的数据提供了进一歩证据，表明这架飞机向南飞往印度洋，最终耗尽燃料。这一结论是基于对这架飞机和一颗卫星之间的“电子握手”信号的分析。
A spokesman from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said an international team continues to analyze data from the satellite handshakes detected as the jet flew south over the Indian Ocean. He said the search would remain “along the arc of the seventh ping,” or the last signal picked up before the jet is thought to have hit the water, off the coast off Western Australia.
澳大利亚交通安全局一名发言人称，一个国际小组在继续分析这架飞机向南飞往印度洋期间所检测到的卫星握手数据。他说，搜索工作将会继续“沿着第7个ping的弧线进行，”也就是接收到的来自飞机的最后一个信号，之后，飞机据认坠入了远离西澳大利亚海岸的海中。
“We won’t be searching the area where the acoustic pings were detected again,” he said. “We are confident that that search has been completed. That is the zone around where the Bluefin was searching, around the signals,” the spokesman said in a telephone interview, citing government policy in declining to be identified by name.
“我们不会再次搜索探测到声学信号的区域，”他说，“我们确信那部分搜索工作已经结束。那是蓝鳍潜航器搜索过的区域，是探测到脉冲信号的区域。”这名发言人在接受电话采访时说，他以不符合政府政策为由婉言拒绝公开姓名。
The announcement on Thursday followed comments made to C.N.N. by a U.S. Navy official on Wednesday, who said the pings detected in early April were likely not from the flight or data recorders of missing aircraft.
周四的声明发布之前，一位美国海军官员曾于周三向CNN表示，4月初探测到的脉冲信号可能不是来自这架飞机或失踪飞机上的数据记录器。
In a series of statements, the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said on Monday that the mapping of the ocean floor, already underway, would take at least three months to complete. Once the bathymetric survey has been completed, the bureau said it could take a further year to finish the deep-sea search of the ocean floor for debris from the Boeing 777.
澳大利亚交通安全局周一发布了一系列声明表示，洋底地图的绘制工作正在进行中，至少需要3个月的时间才能完成。澳大利亚交通安全局说，水深测量工作完成之后，可能还需要一年时间才能完成在深海洋底搜索这架波音777飞机残骸的工作。
“The search will be a major undertaking,” said Martin Dolan, the bureau’s chief commissioner.
澳大利亚交通安全局局长马丁·多兰(Martin Dolan)说：“搜索工作将是一项巨大的工程。”