SYDNEY, Australia — Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia announced on Monday an end to the search by air for debris from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, but he said the underwater search would be intensified and expanded.
澳大利亚悉尼——周一，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)宣布结束马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班残骸的空中搜索，同时表示将加强并扩大水下搜索。
“It is highly unlikely at this stage that we will find any aircraft debris on the ocean surface,” Mr. Abbott said at a news briefing in Canberra, the capital. “By this stage, 52 days into the search, most material would have become waterlogged and sunk. Therefore, we are moving from the current phase to a phase which is focused on searching the ocean floor over a much larger area.”
“在目前这个阶段，我们几乎不可能在海面找到飞机的任何残骸，”阿博特在澳大利亚首都堪培拉的新闻发布会上说，“到目前这个阶段，搜寻已经进入了第52天，大部分残骸可能都已经浸透了水，沉入了海底。因此，我们将从当前的阶段转入下一阶段，下一阶段的重点是搜索一片面积远比目前大的区域的海床。”
Mr. Abbott said that while the United States Navy’s Bluefin-21 submersible vehicle would continue to search the ocean floor for wreckage from the jet, which vanished on March 8 with 239 people on board, the search coordinators were arranging to hire private contractors that would use a different type of equipment. The next phase of the search could take six to eight months, he said.
阿博特表示，美国海军(United States Navy)的“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21) 潜水器将继续在海底搜寻飞机残骸，与此同时，搜索协调人员正在安排雇佣私人承包商，后者将使用一种不同类型的设备。他说，下一个搜索阶段可能会持续六到八个月。马航的那架飞机于3月8日消失，机上载有239人。
“What we are doing is looking to an intensified underwater search involving different technology, in particular using specialized side-scan sonar equipment towed behind ships to scan the seabed for evidence of aircraft wreckage,” Mr. Abbott said. “While the search will be moving to a new phase in coming weeks, it certainly is not ending.”
“我们要做的事情是利用不同的技术来强化水下搜索，尤其要使用拖在船后的专业侧向扫描声纳设备来扫描海底，以便寻找飞机残骸的蛛丝马迹，”阿博特说，“搜索将在接下来几周进入一个新阶段，但肯定不会就此结束。”
The authorities said the technology being envisioned for the new phase had advantages over the Bluefin-21, which must be recovered and its data downloaded every 20 hours. The Bluefin-21 was better suited to work with the pinger locator towed by the Australian naval vessel Ocean Shield. Towed sonar can cover a larger area, picking up imagery in a way not possible with the autonomous underwater vehicle.
相关机构称，根据现在的设想，新阶段将要使用的技术优于“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”必须每隔20小时回收一次，以便下载数据。该设备更适合与澳大利亚海军舰船“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)拖曳的声波定位仪配合工作。拖在船后的声波定位仪能覆盖更大区域，以水下自主设备无法实现的方式接收图像。
Mr. Abbott’s announcement followed the failure of the Bluefin-21 to find any sign of the plane’s wreckage on the seabed despite 16 deep-sea missions in a remote part of the Indian Ocean, about 1,000 miles off the coast of the state of Western Australia.
阿博特发表前述声明之前，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”在印度洋一片偏远海域进行了16次深海任务，但却未能在海底发现飞机残骸的任何迹象。该海域距离西澳大利亚州海岸约1000英里（约合1600公里）。
Flight 370 veered off course on March 8 during a routine flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, for reasons that remain unknown. Satellite data later indicated that the plane had headed south, and searchers believe it crashed in the Indian Ocean.
3月8日，由于迄今未知的原因，370航班在从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京的途中偏离航线。随后，卫星数据表明飞机曾向南飞行，搜索人员认为它最终在印度洋坠毁。
The Bluefin-21 was searching in a circle around where, on April 8, the authorities last detected what they believe to have been an acoustic ping from one of the jet’s so-called black boxes, or data recorders. No debris has been found that could be linked to the flight.
4月8日，相关机构最后一次探测到了据信为飞机其中一个数据记录器（黑匣子）发出的声纳ping信号。“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”一直在围绕信号地点进行搜索。目前尚未发现任何可能与失踪飞机相关的残骸。
The search coordinators say the most reliable clues to the jet’s whereabouts were transmissions from the aircraft’s engines, before they ceased to operate, and the acoustic signals picked up by the pinger locator in April. Mr. Abbott said the authorities remained confident that those signals came from the jet. “We are still baffled and disappointed that we have not been able to find undersea wreckage based on those detections,” he said.
搜索协调人员称，关于飞机下落的最可靠线索是飞机引擎在停止工作前所传输的数据，以及声波定位仪4月发现的声纳信号。阿博特称，相关机构仍然相信这些信号来自370航班。他说，“我们未能根据这些发现找到水下残骸，这一点仍让我们感到困惑和失望。”
The next phase of the search, he said, will involve further consultation over the zone where the plane is believed to have hit the ocean. Experts from the United States, Malaysia, China, Britain and Australia, currently working from Kuala Lumpur, will be asked “to reconsider exactly what they think is the most likely probable impact zone based on the data we’ve got and the reflections that they have inevitably had over the last few weeks on all of this,” he said.
他说，在搜索工作的下一阶段，他们将就飞机可能的坠海地点展开进一步讨论。来自美国、马来西亚、中国、英国和澳大利亚的一些专家目前都在吉隆坡工作，有关方面将要求他们“根据我们手头的数据，以及他们过去几周对所有这些情况必然会有的思考，来重新判断哪里才是他们认为最有可能的坠海地点”。