China’s declaration of an air defense zone in the East China Sea has prompted concern among some neighbors who fear it will be used to bolster territorial claims.Japan in particular has questioned China’s intentions as the zone encompasses a group of small islands claimed by both countries as well as by Taiwan. Japan now administers the islands, known as the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan, but over the past year China has been escalating its challenge to Tokyo’s control.
中国宣布在东海设立防空识别区，这已经在一些邻国引发了担忧，它们害怕这将被用来支持中国主张的领土主权。由于防空区囊括了一些中日两国以及台湾都宣称拥有主权的小岛，日本更是对中国的意图提出了质疑。目前，日本对这些在中国称为钓鱼岛、在日本称为尖阁诸岛的群岛实施行政管辖，但在过去一年中，中国一直在升级其对日本控制权的挑战。
After the Chinese announcement, the United States flew B-52 bombers through the zone, ignoring Beijing’s demands that all aircraft submit flight plans. But the Federal Aviation Administration is advising commercial airlines to comply with the new identification requirements out of concern for safety.
在中国宣布防空识别区后，美国派B-52轰炸机穿越该区域，无视北京提出的所有航空器必须通报飞行计划的要求。但美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)建议商用航空公司出于安全考虑，遵守新识别区的要求。
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. of the United States, who is on a weeklong trip to China, Japan and South Korea, says the zone raises tensions and the risk of mishap, and is expected to outline the United States’ position to Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing.
美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)正在中日韩进行为期一周的访问。他表示，防空区会加剧紧张局势和增加发生意外的风险。外界预料拜登将在北京向中国国家主席习近平阐明美国在此问题上的立场。
Rory Medcalf, director of the International Security Program at the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney, argues that China miscalculated and that the United States should use the moment to persuade China and others to establish mechanisms in the region to minimize the risk of an incident that could trigger a conflict. The following are edited excerpts from an email interview with Mr. Medcalf:
悉尼洛伊国际政策研究所(Lowy Institute for International Policy)国际安全项目(International Security Program)主任罗里·梅德卡尔夫(Rory Medcalf)认为，中国误判了形势，美国应该利用当前时机来说服中国和其他国家在该地区建立相关机制，以尽量减小可能发生的冲突事件所带来的风险。以下对话来自对梅德卡尔夫进行的邮件采访的节选，并经过编辑：
Q.China has described the establishment of this zone as a normal step that has been taken by many other countries. What do you think Beijing hoped to accomplish through declaring this air defense identification zone, or A.D.I.Z.?
问：中国政府将这一区域的建立描述为一个常规性举措，并且世界上很多国家都已经采取了这样的措施。你认为，北京通过宣布这个防空识别区希望达到何种目的呢？
A.Presumably the Chinese leadership — and we have to assume this comes from the top — wanted to apply renewed pressure on Japan in the islands dispute. Japan’s pre-existing A.D.I.Z. may have been seen as giving it an excuse to scramble fighter aircraft every time it detected a Chinese Air Force foray into that space. With its own zone, China now may try to claim a bit more moral high ground next time – and if there is a dangerous incident, it will say there was fair warning, and reserve the right to escalate.
答：中国的领导人大概是希望就岛屿争端向日本施加更大压力，我们不得不假设这种愿望来自高层。人们也许认为，日本已经建立的防空识别区使得它能有借口在每次监测到中国空军的飞机进入识别区时，紧急派出战机。在中国自己的防空识别区内，该国如今可能会在下次出现问题时多少尝试占领道德高地，如果出现一个危险的事件，它会说已经进行了合理的警示，并保留升级问题的权利。
Q.Do you think China is accomplishing what it set out to achieve with this zone? Do you think other zones could follow, encompassing contested areas like Taiwan or the South China Sea?
问：你觉得中国是否正在实现它设立此防空区所希望达到的目标？你觉得会不会有其他防空区接踵而至，将台湾或南海等争议区域划入其中？
Diplomatically, China has miscalculated. I doubt it expected to spook South Korea, Australia, the E.U. and others as well as the United States and Japan on this issue. It would much prefer to diplomatically isolate Japan, and it has set back its chances of doing that.
答：从外交上来看，中国做出了误判。我不认为它事先就预料到，在这一问题上，除了吓到美国和日本，还会让韩国、澳大利亚、欧盟以及其他国家感到担忧。它会更愿意从外交上孤立日本，但现在却在这方面遭遇挫折。
A.But time will tell whether the short-term diplomatic pain will give China the long-term strategic gain it wants. Much will depend on whether the United States, Japan and others can be smart, determined and coordinated in the way they respond.
但时间会告诉我们，这种外交阵痛是否会为中国换来它所希望的长期战略利益。这在很大程度上取决于美国、日本和其他国家是否能在应对时足够机智、坚定、协调有序。
There may also be a long-term calculation by China that as other countries and their civilian airlines get used to complying with the zone, it will lead to a kind of incremental acceptance of Chinese authority in the air and at sea in this and other contested spaces in East Asia. The same thing is happening with Chinese naval activities. A recent major exercise involved a fleet sailing between Japanese islands to maneuver east of Taiwan, as proof that China had permanently broken through the so-called first island chain. This is not outright aggression; it is something more subtle and difficult to handle than that.
或许中国也有长期的考虑：随着其他国家和它们的民用航空公司习惯了遵守这一防空区的规定，国际社会就会在更大程度上接受中国在此地和东海其他争议空间的领空、领海主权。这也正是中国海军当下行动的目的。在最近的一次大型军演中，一支中国舰队在日本岛屿之间航行，意图在台湾以东做出部署，这说明中国已经从此突破了所谓的第一岛链。这并不能算是赤裸裸的挑衅，它是一种不那么明显的行动，但却更难处理。
The way the rest of the region responds now will also have some influence on what China does next. It has publicly foreshadowed more such zones in the future, perhaps extending into the disputed South China Sea.
这一地区其他国家现在的应对方式也将对中国下一步采取的行动有所影响。它向公众预示，未来会设立更多这样的区域，可能会延伸至有争议的南海地区。
Q.Tokyo has advised Japanese airlines not to follow the rules of the zone, while the United States government has said American airlines should. How would you rate these responses? Is Japan putting sovereignty over safety? Is the United States being too cautious?
问：东京已经建议日本航空公司不要遵守这一防空区的要求，而美国政府则表示，美国航空公司应该遵守。那你会如何评价这些反应呢？日本是将主权置于安全之上吗？美国是否太过小心？
A.No private airline can be expected to add even the slightest degree of risk or uncertainty for its passengers in the name of geopolitics. But the United States is being careful. Its advice to airlines is offset by the fact that it has taken the lead in ignoring China’s A.D.I.Z. with some of the most totemic military aircraft at its disposal.
答：没有一家私营航空公司会因地缘政治而给自己的乘客增加哪怕一丝一毫的危险或不确定性。美国的确是在小心行事。但是它此前的行动抵消了对航空公司的建议的影响：美国率先无视中国防空识别区，出动了一些最具象征意义的军用飞机。
Q.There is still some uncertainty about what exactly such a zone is. How do you define it?
问：关于这样一个防空区到底有何种意义，还有一些不确定性。你如何定义它？
A.It is not a territorial claim. Instead it’s an area of international airspace over a which a particular country asserts the right to identify air traffic headed for its territory, including in order to distinguish potential threats from foreign military aircraft. And in the case of the new Chinese A.D.I.Z., there’s a demand that all aircraft within the zone – military or civilian – identify themselves and provide flight path information, even if they are just in transit. Moreover, China seems to reserve the right to challenge and give direction to aircraft in the zone.
答：这不算主张领土的行为。而是某个国家对一片国际空域主张权利，以识别通向其领土的航空流量，目的包括发现来自外国军用航空器的潜在威胁。中国的新防空识别区要求区域内的所有飞机，不论是军用还是民用，都需要自报身份并提供飞行路线信息，即使它们仅仅是过境。另外，中国看来保留了对该区域内航空器提出挑战和作出指示的权利。
Q.You’ve said that such a zone isn’t an inherently bad thing. What are positive aspects of such an A.D.I.Z.?
问：你说过这样一个防空区本身不是坏事。那么这样的防空区有哪些积极的方面？
A.Many countries established these zones during the Cold War, including the United States, Japan and South Korea. In theory, they can help to keep the peace by providing early warning for defensive purposes – assuming of course that all countries respect each other’s zones.
答：包括美国、日本和韩国在内的许多国家都在冷战期间设立了这样的区域。从理论上说，它们有助于在防御层面提供预警，从而维持和平，当然前提是所有国家都尊重彼此的防空识别区。
Q.China’s implementation of the zone, however, has raised questions. What do you see as the chief issues with how China has gone about this?
问：然而，中国设立防空识别区之举已经引发质疑。你认为，对于中国处理此事的方法，各方主要的不满是什么？
A.China has as much right to an A.D.I.Z. as any other country. And China’s efforts to push foreign aerial surveillance far from its shores are not surprising. But the way China has gone about its recent announcement has been destabilizing. The biggest problem is that China’s new zone overlaps Japan’s own longstanding A.D.I.Z., especially over the contested Senkaku/Diaoyu islands, and this adds to already serious security tensions over that maritime territory. There’s also a lack of clarity over what China will do to enforce the zone, with implicit threats to take action against foreign military aircraft that do not comply.
答：中国在设立防空识别区方面的权利和所有国家都是对等的。中国将对外国的航空监视范围推至远离国境之处，也并不意外。但是，中国宣布其航空识别区的方式却具有破坏性。最大的问题是，中国新划定的区域和日本设立已久的防空识别区有重合之处，尤其是在两国争议的尖阁诸岛/钓鱼岛空域出现重叠，这进一步加剧了这片海域原已十分紧张的安全形势。另外，对于中国将会如何使其界定生效，也缺乏清晰的说明，只是暗示了，对于拒绝遵守其规定的外国军用飞机会采取行动。
Q.The United States, Japan and South Korea have now all tested the zone by sending military aircraft on patrols without informing China. What were they hoping to accomplish? Do you see these moves as prudent? Potentially dangerous? Something else?
问：美国、日本和韩国都已在未通知中方的情况下派遣军用飞机在该防空识别区巡逻，以此进行试探。它们希望达到何种目的？你认为这些行动是审慎的吗？还是说可能带来危险？或者说你还有别的看法？
A.In the circumstances, these three countries did what they had to do. Unless they were ready simply to accept this new increment of Chinese authority over regional airspace, they had to act soon to show that in their view the status quo had not changed. For the United States, it was especially important to do something tangible to reassure its allies – in fact, China has given the Obama administration a chance to show that the rebalance to Asia remains real.
答：在这种情况下，这三个国家做了它们必须要做的事。除非他们准备就这么接受中国对地区空域权利的扩大，否则的话，他们必须尽早行动，表明在他们眼中，现状没有任何改变。对美国而言，拿出切实的行动来消除其盟友的担心尤为重要。实际上，中国已经给了奥巴马政府一个机会来证明，亚洲再平衡计划不是纸上谈兵。
Q.How do you judge Beijing’s initial reaction to the U.S. overflight, that it monitored and identified the B-52 bombers and retains “the ability to implement effective management and control of the airspace?” Did China blink?
问：你如何评价中方对美国飞越防空识别区的最初反应，中方表示，它监视并识别了B-52轰炸机，并有“能力对东海防空识别区的空域实施有效管控”？中国是否退缩了？
A.The B-52 flights certainly caused embarrassment, forcing Chinese officials and newspaper editorials into some fairly excruciating dissembling and policy clarifications. Suddenly, the line was that the flights had been ‘monitored’ from afar, and that was enough to preserve national honor.
答：B-52的出动显然使中方感到难堪，它迫使中国官员和报纸社论做出了一些颇为尴尬的掩饰之举和政策阐明。突然之间，他们的口径变成了：飞行受到了远程‘监视’，这足以维护国家荣誉。
Q.The cautious Chinese response received some criticism at home, that China’s ruled were ignored by other countries. Is there a danger that the Chinese leadership will be pushed into more aggressive steps?
问：中方的谨慎回应在国内受到了一些谴责，说中国的规定遭到其他国家的漠视。那么，中国领导层是否有可能被迫采取更加激进的措施呢？
A.It would make sense for the United States and its allies not to play up any perceived Chinese passivity or backdown — or even to claim that China does not have the military capability to patrol the zone. The goal right now should be to use the whole controversy as a springboard to start a new dialogue about risk-reduction in the air and at sea. That should be the focus of Vice President Biden’s visit to the region this week. He should be saying to Xi Jinping: “You say you want to create predictability and avoid unintended conflict. So do we, and so does Japan. Let’s build rules of the road for military activities at sea and in the air, including operational hotlines to prevent or manage incidents.”
答：对于美国及其盟友来说，不去渲染它们所认为的中国被动接受或让步的观点，更不要去宣称中国不具备在该识别区巡逻的军事能力，会是比较明智的做法。当前的目标应该是把这场论战当做契机，来开启新一轮关于在空域和海域减少风险的对话。这应该是副总统拜登本周访问这一地区的重点。他应该对习近平说：“你说你想创建可预见性，避免意外冲突。我们也这么想，日本也一样。让我们为海上、空中的军事行动建立规则，包括在行动层面设立热线，以对事件进行防范和管理。”
Q.China announced late Thursday that it has sent military aircraft to patrol its new air defense zone. With the United States and its allies testing this zone, and China patrolling it, is there a danger of some sort of incident between military aircraft, either intentional or accidental?
问：中国周四晚间宣布，已派遣军用飞机巡逻新划定的防空识别区。在美国及其盟友对识别区进行试探，而中国也对其展开巡逻的背景下，军用飞机之间是否有可能出现某种摩擦，不管是有意还是无意的？
A.There was a risk already, and that risk is now heightened — especially if there is anything but absolute discipline in the way the Chinese Air Force goes about interpreting the new rules. Tension has become the new normal in East Asian waters, and now in the air, too.
答：早就存在这样的风险了，而且现在这种风险更高，特别是如果中国空军在诠释新规时不进行严格的自律。在东亚海域，紧张局势已成为新的常态，现在在东亚空域亦是如此。