SYDNEY, Australia — Australian authorities are likely to widen the underwater search for wreckage from the missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 because an unmanned search vehicle has so far failed to find any trace of the missing jet on the seabed in a remote patch of the Indian Ocean, officials said Saturday.
澳大利亚悉尼——澳大利亚官员上周六表示，当局有可能扩大对失踪马航370航班残骸的水下搜寻范围，因为在印度洋的某处偏远海底，一个无人驾驶搜索装置迄今未能找到这架飞机的任何痕迹。
The Joint Agency Coordination Center said in a statement that the vehicle, the submersible Bluefin-21, had searched 95 percent of an area around where the authorities had detected the last acoustic ping believed to have come from the jet, which disappeared on March 8 with 239 people on board. “No contacts of interest have been found to date,” the statement said.
澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Centre)在一份声明中表示，在最后收到音频ping信号的区域，潜航器“蓝鳍-21”(Bluefin-21)已经搜查了95%的范围；这些ping信号拒信来自370航班，该航班于3月8日失去联系，机上有239人。“迄今没有任何让我们感兴趣的发现。”该声明称。
Launched from the Australian naval vessel Ocean Shield, the Bluefin-21 scoured the seabed in a circle with a radius of 6.2 miles around that last ping, which was believed to have come from the plane’s black box data recorders.
澳大利亚海军舰只“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)启用蓝鳍-21，在最后收到ping信号周围半径约6.2英里（约合10公里）的海底区域搜寻了一圈。搜寻人员相信这些ping信号是该架飞机的黑匣子数据记录仪发出的。
“If no contacts of interest are made, Bluefin-21 will continue to examine the areas adjacent” to the 6.2-mile radius area, the statement said. No mention was made of other changes to the search, or the use of alternative deep-sea equipment that might be better able to scan the seabed, which is up to 2.8 miles below the surface.
该声明称，“如果没有发现感兴趣的接触点，蓝鳍-21将继续搜索”这6.2英里半径区域附近的海域。声明没有提到搜寻行动有其他变化，也没有说要使用或许能更好地扫描海底的深海装置，这片区域深达海平面下2.8英里。
The Bluefin-21 is deployed about 1,000 miles off the coast of the state of Western Australia, around an area that the authorities had calculated as most likely to yield some sign of the plane, possibly resting in deep silt. On Friday, before completing its 13th mission, the vehicle was forced to return to the ocean’s surface because of technical problems, which were resolved overnight.
蓝鳍-21被部署在澳大利亚州海岸以西大约1000英里处，根据当局的计算，这是最有可能发现370航班踪迹的区域，飞机可能陷在淤泥深处。上周五，在完成第13次任务前，蓝鳍-21因为技术问题被迫返回，该问题已在当夜得到解决。
Despite the searches above and below the surface of the Indian Ocean, no debris that can be linked to Flight 370 has been found. Searchers have scoured thousands of miles of ocean in the 50 days since the plane disappeared.
人们在印度洋海面上和海面下进行了搜索，但迄今尚未发现和370航班有关的残骸。自该飞机失去联系50天以来，搜寻人员已经搜索了数以千英里计的海域。
Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia has described the fate of the flight as an enduring mystery. The jet disappeared after turning sharply off course on a routine flight between Malaysia’s capital, Kuala Lumpur, and Beijing, inexplicably heading south and out into a remote part of the Indian Ocean, far from Australia’s west coast.
澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)说这架飞行的命运是一个不解之谜。在从马来西亚首都吉隆坡到北京的例行飞行中，这架飞机大幅偏离航向后消失了。它莫名其妙地向南转向，飞往了印度洋远离澳大利亚西海岸的一处偏远海域。
The strongest and only leads to the plane’s whereabouts in the time since it dropped off radar screens have been four acoustic signals detected on April 5 and April 8, as Ocean Shield towed a batwing-shaped pinger locator, or underwater microphone, below the surface of the ocean.
自从这架飞机在雷达屏幕上消失后，关于其位置最有希望的线索，也是唯一的线索，是4月5日和4月8日侦测到的4个音频信号。当时“海盾号”拖着一个蝙蝠翼状的ping信号定位器，或称水下麦克风，在海面下搜索的时候，侦测到了这些信号。
The Bluefin-21 was deployed days after the last acoustic signal was detected and after the authorities surmised that the batteries on the flight’s data recorders had most likely died, leaving no chance that further signals would be heard.
在最后一个音频信号被侦测到数天之后，当局推测飞行数据记录器的电池电量极有可能耗尽，不会再有机会检测到更多信号，搜寻人员随后部署了蓝鳍-21。
Mr. Abbott told reporters on Wednesday that the probable impact zone is about 435 miles long, and about 50 miles wide, based on the detections from the black box recorder. The Bluefin was searching an area of about 154 square miles.
阿博特上周三告诉记者，从黑匣子记录仪的信号来判断，有希望找到370迹象的区域约为435英里长、50英里宽。蓝鳍-21当天正在搜索一片约154平方英里的区域。
“We have not finished the search,” Mr. Abbott said Wednesday. “We have not found anything yet in the area we are searching. But the point I make is that Australia will not rest until we have done everything we humanly can to get to the bottom of this mystery.”
“我们的搜索还没有完成，”阿博特上周三说。“我们正在搜索那片区域，还没有发现任何东西。但我要说的是，澳大利亚不会放弃搜索，我们会竭尽所能，去揭开这个神秘事件的真相。”
On Saturday, officials said that as the Bluefin-21 was completing its underwater task, eight military aircraft and 11 ships were searching 22,127 square miles looking for debris on the surface of the ocean.
官员们上周六表示，在蓝鳍-21即将完成水下任务的时候，8架军用飞机和11艘舰船正在22127平方英里的海面上搜寻残骸。