SYDNEY, Australia — A sensor dropped into the sea by a Royal Australian Air Force plane detected a possible acoustic signal in the same area of the Indian Ocean where a search ship had earlier detected signals that might have come from flight recorders of the missing Malaysia Airlines aircraft, the Australian authorities overseeing the search said Thursday.
澳大利亚悉尼——周四，负责协调搜寻任务的澳大利亚官方机构表示，澳大利亚皇家空军(Royal Australian Air Force)的一架军机置入海中的一个传感器可能侦测到了音频信号，信号所处位置正是一艘搜寻舰之前探测到信号的海域，搜寻舰船探测到的信号可能来自马航失踪班机的飞行数据记录仪。
The announcement of the latest potential clue to the whereabouts of the aircraft contained few details, and the signal could turn out to be another of the many false leads that have dogged the hunt for Flight 370 for more than a month. But it came in the same seas off Western Australia where the Ocean Shield, an Australian defense force ship, had already collected four sets of signals — two on Saturday, two on Tuesday — that could have come from beacons attached to the plane’s two flight recorders.
此次公布的关于失踪班机下落的最新潜在线索并没有包含多少细节，侦测到的信号也可能会被证实为又一条虚假线索，在此之前，曾有多条虚假线索对已逾一月的370次班机搜索行动造成了困扰。不过，这次找到的信号同样来自澳大利亚西海岸之外的海域，与澳大利亚护卫舰“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)此前收集到四组信号的区域相一致，该舰收集到的信号有两组是在上周六找到的，还有两组是在本周二找到的，信号有可能来自失踪飞机上两个飞行数据记录仪附带的信标发射器。
Angus Houston, the retired air chief marshal overseeing the search in the southern Indian Ocean, confirmed that a AP-3C Orion plane had detected the signal, the Australian body overseeing the search said in an emailed statement on Thursday.
协调搜寻任务的澳大利亚机构在周四的一则电子邮件声明中表示，主持此次南印度洋搜寻行动的澳大利亚退役空军上将安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)证实，最新的信号是一架AP-3C猎户座(Orion)飞机侦测到的。
“The acoustic data will require further analysis overnight but shows potential of being from a man-made source,” Mr. Houston said in the statement. “I will provide a further update if, and when, further information becomes available.”
休斯顿在声明中表示，“音频信号还需再做一夜分析，不过，信号本身显示其来源可能是人工设备。如果获得进一步的信息，我会及时做出补充说明。”
The Joint Agency Coordination Center, which is overseeing the search, said the signal had been detected by a sonar buoy, or sonobuoy, dropped from the Orion; the buoy’s radio transmits data back to the plane. The center did not give the precise location of the buoy when it caught the signal or the duration of the signal. Such data could be used to narrow the focus in the search for wreckage and the flight recorders that may be crucial to determining what caused the plane, a Boeing 777-200, to disappear on March 8 with 239 people on board en route from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing. The batteries on the flight recorders’ signal beacons have been consuming power for more than 30 days — their standard operating life — and each extra day of signals could prove important to homing on in the recorders.
负责协调搜寻任务的澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center)表示，捕捉到最新信号的是那架猎户座飞机抛下的一个声纳浮标；浮标上的无线电装置把数据传回了那架猎户座飞机。协调中心没有给出浮标俘获信号时所处的确切位置，也没有给出信号持续的时间。此类信号可用于缩小搜索残骸和飞行数据记录仪的重点范围，数据记录仪对判断失联的波音777-200客机的消失原因也许至关重要。这架飞机是3月8日消失的，消失时正在从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京，机上载有239人。给飞行数据记录仪的信标发射器供电的电池已经消耗了30多天，而30天是这种电池的标准寿命。事实可能会证明，设备发射信号的每一个额外日子都对指引人们找到数据记录仪至关重要。
On Wednesday, Mr. Houston said he was increasingly hopeful that wreckage and the “black box” flight recorders would eventually be found, despite the daunting size and depth of the water into which the plane is thought to have plunged.
周三，休斯顿表示，虽然人们认定的飞机坠海海域的面积和深度令人生畏，他本人却越来越有信心，相信能最终找到飞机残骸和被称为“黑匣子”的数据记录仪。
Mr. Houston said analysis had confirmed that the underwater pings detected over the weekend had most likely came from the flight data recorder, ruling out marine mammals or other vessels as the source. “I’m now optimistic we will find the aircraft, or what is left of the aircraft,” Mr. Houston said at a news conference in Perth, Australia, on Wednesday. But he also noted that searchers had still not found debris linked to Flight 370, and that once the batteries on the locators expire, the acoustic signals will fade. A spokeswoman for the coordination center said 10 military aircraft, four civilian jets and 13 ships were involved in the search on Thursday, in an area reduced to just under 60,000 square kilometers, or roughly 23,000 square miles.
休斯顿说，分析结果已经确认，上周末侦测到的水下脉冲信号最大可能是来自机上的数据记录仪，并且排除了声源是海洋哺乳动物或其他船只的可能。周三，休斯顿在澳大利亚帕斯的新闻发布会上表示，“现在，我乐观地认为，我们能找到飞机或者飞机残骸。” 但他也指出，搜索人员依然没有发现和370航班有关的残片，此外，一旦定位器电池电量耗尽，声音信号就会消失。协调中心的一名女发言人表示，周四共有10架军用飞机、4架民用飞机和13艘船参加搜索，缩小之后的搜索区域面积略小于6万平方公里，大概相当于2.3平方英里。
The area where Ocean Shield is now trawling for acoustic pings is about 1,000 miles northwest of Perth, and several hundred miles east of the main search area, where investigators believe that any plane debris is likely to have drifted.
正在搜索声脉冲的“海盾号”所在区域位于珀斯西北大约1000英里，主搜索区以东几百英里。主搜索区是调查人员认为可能会漂浮着飞机残骸的区域。
The salvage and rescue coordinator, Capt. Mark M. Matthews of the United States Navy, said in a telephone interview that Australian Navy clearance divers had been collecting small pieces of floating debris.
打捞和营救协调员、美国海军(United States Navy)上校马克·M·马修斯(Mark M. Matthews)在接受电话采访时说，澳大利亚海军(Australian Navy)的清理潜水员一直在收集小块的漂浮碎片。
Captain Matthews, who is in charge of the United States Navy-operated pinger locator being towed by the Ocean Shield, described the latest reception of acoustic signals from the ship as enormously encouraging. “To get a detection builds your confidence,” he said, especially when the last known physical location of the aircraft was thousands of miles away. The Ocean Shield pinger detected two distinct signals on Tuesday, one lasting 5 minutes and 32 seconds, and the other lasting about seven minutes. A map released by the Australian search authorities indicated that the Ocean Shield detected the four sets of signals at a maximum distance of about 15 miles from one another.
“海盾号”拖拽的声波探测仪由美国海军操控，马修斯是负责人。他说，该船最新探测到的声音信号非常鼓舞人心。他说，“探测到信号会让人充满信心”，尤其是考虑到失踪飞机的最后已知位置在数千英里之外的事实。周二，“海盾号”的声波探测仪探测到了两组很明显的信号，一组持续了5分32秒，另一组持续了大约7分钟。澳大利亚搜索机构公布的一幅地图显示，“海盾号”探测到的四组信号彼此之间的最大距离约为15英里。
David Griffin, an oceanographer advising the Australian government on the search, is trying to track debris based on water and wind currents. He said several factors, including a false start in the wrong area, had seriously set the searchers back.
为此次搜索向澳大利亚政府提供咨询服务的海洋学家戴维·格里芬(David Griffin)正试图根据水流和风流追踪碎片。他说，有几个因素严重地拖了搜索人员的后腿，其中之一就是在错误区域进行搜索的失败开端。
“The delay was the biggest obstacle,” said Dr. Griffin, a scientist at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia’s national science agency. “The first 10 days everyone was looking up in Malaysia.”
“延误是最大的障碍，”身为澳大利亚联邦科学和工业研究组织(Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization)科学家的格里芬博士说，“搜索行动最初的10天，所有人都在马来西亚寻找。”
The search zone is now significantly north of where searchers have theorized that the plane hit the water. Some debris might have sunk to the ocean floor, experts like Dr. Griffin say, while smaller pieces may have been pushed great distances by wind. Big waves could have broken up or sunken parts of any plane wreckage, he said, and climate and water conditions are very changeable in the surrounding area.
目前的搜索区远比搜索人员先前推定的飞机坠海处靠北。包括格里芬博士在内的一些专家表示，部分碎片可能已经沉至海底，较小的碎片则可能被风刮到了很远的地方。格里芬博士说，巨浪可能打碎了飞机残骸，或是导致其沉入水底，更何况，周边区域的气候和水文条件也非常多变。
“Tropical Cyclone Gillian passed over the area around March 25, and gave the ocean a massive kick,” Dr. Griffin said. “The cyclone came right over the top of where we think the debris field was. That projects a lot more uncertainty into where the windblown debris might have gone.”
“热带气旋‘吉莉安’(Gillian)在3月25日前后经过该地区，极大地影响了该海域，”格里芬博士说，“气旋正好经过我们认为的碎片所在区域上方。这大大增加了不确定性，让我们很难知道碎片被风刮到了哪里。”