MACAU — Macau had been on a hot streak.
澳门——过去这些年，澳门好运连连。
Over a span of 10 years, the Chinese territory reshaped itself from a sleepy Portuguese colony into the world’s largest gambling destination. A flood of money from the increasingly wealthy mainland washed over the city and its residents, and the casino industry now dominates the economy.
10年之中，这片中国领土把自己从一个昏昏欲睡的葡萄牙殖民地变成了世界上最大的赌博胜地。来自越来越富裕的中国大陆的大量资金向这座城市及其市民涌来，博彩业如今已经占据了当地经济的主导地位。
But this autumn, gambling revenue dropped precipitously, by nearly 20 percent in November from the same month last year. The stocks of casino operators have slumped after Beijing announced that the Chinese police would be cracking down on the flow of illicit money through the territory.
不过，今年秋天，博彩业的收入出现暴跌。11月，博彩业收入同比下降了近20%。在北京宣布中国警方将对打压流经澳门的非法资金之后，赌场经营者的股价便开始急剧下跌。
That move came ahead of a visit by President Xi Jinping of China, who arrived in Macau on Friday as part of the city’s commemoration of the 15th anniversary of its handover from Portuguese to Chinese control.
随后，作为庆祝澳门从葡萄牙手中回归中国15周年的部分内容，中国国家主席习近平于周五抵达澳门进行访问。
Macau is taking a hard look at how to wean itself off its heavy reliance on gambling. Casino resorts are using diverse approaches — like Shrek-themed breakfast buffets for families and boxing title fights — to attract mainland Chinese visitors who will spend at least some of their vacation money away from the tables.
澳门正在仔细思考该如何消除对博彩业的严重依赖。主打赌场的度假地正在使用各种方法——比如为一家人提供《怪物史莱克》(Shrek)主题的自助早餐和拳王冠军赛——以吸引那些至少会把一部分度假费用花在赌桌之外的中国大陆游客。
“There’s an opportunity for Macau to attract a new breed of customer, one which is looking for a more holistic experience,” said Aaron Fischer, a gambling analyst at the brokerage firm CLSA.
经纪公司里昂证券(CLSA)的博彩业分析师亚伦·费希尔(Aaron Fischer)说，“澳门有机会吸引一批新顾客，他们寻求的是更全面的体验。”
Beijing has openly pressed the Macau government to diversify into a “family-style entertainment zone” with less reliance on gambling.
北京曾公开敦促澳门政府对澳门实施多元化，把它变成一个“家庭式娱乐区”，减少对博彩业的依赖。
“The dominance of one industry can lead the city to prosperity, but it also can lead to its demise,” Li Gang, director of the Central People’s Government Liaison Office in Macau, said this last week.
中央人民政府驻澳门特别行政区联络办公室主任李刚上周表示，“某个行业占主导地位的现象可以带领城市走向繁荣，但它可能也会导致这座城市走向灭亡。”
It is a message for casino operators as well, as several gambling concessions will come up for renewal beginning in 2016. One of the main criteria for the assessment of casino operators will be their development of nongambling facilities.
对于赌场经营者而言，这也传达了一条讯息，因为2016年年初，博彩业的几个特许经营牌照将接受重新审核。评估赌场经营者的一个主要标准就是他们在非赌博设施方面所取得的进步。
Nongambling revenue at the resorts now accounts for 10 percent of revenue at most, compared with 60 percent in Las Vegas, Mr. Fischer said.
费希尔说，目前，那些度假地的非赌博收入最多只占总收入的10%，而在拉斯维加斯，这个比例是60%。
For Macau, the Vegas model of an all-inclusive holiday destination in which gambling is only part of the experience is increasingly appealing.
对于澳门，拉斯维加斯那种包罗万象的度假胜地模式越来越具吸引力。在拉斯维加斯，赌博只是整个城市体验的一部分。
On the first day of the Macao Gaming Show last month, Maria Helena de Senna Fernandes, director of the Macau Government Tourist Office, played up the territory’s charms outside the casinos.
上月，在澳门娱乐展的第一天，澳门政府旅游局局长文绮华(Maria Helena de Senna Fernandes)就强调了澳门除赌场以外的魅力。
“We want this type of exhibition to allow people from all over the world to learn more about Macau,” Ms. Fernandes said. “It doesn’t have to be all about gaming.”
“我们希望此类展览，能让来自世界各地的人更多地了解澳门，”文绮华说，“它并不一定都要与赌博有关。”
But gambling has been a cash cow that last year injected more than $45.2 billion into the economy of this city of half a million people. The gambling sector accounts for just over 80 percent of Macau’s economy, Carlos Siu Lam, an associate professor at the Gaming Teaching and Research Center at Macao Polytechnic Institute, estimated.
但是，博彩业的确一直是摇钱树。去年，它为这座拥有50万人口的城市注入了逾452亿美元（约合2807亿元人民币）。据澳门理工学院(Macao Polytechnic Institute)博彩教学暨研究中心(Gaming Teaching and Research Center)的副教授萧锦雄(Carlos Siu Lam)估计，博彩业在澳门经济中所占比例为80%多一点。
But Chinese gamblers, particularly the high rollers, have been staying away. The shift has been driven by anticorruption measures, a slowing Chinese economy and a lack of confidence in junket operations — in which middlemen act on behalf of the casinos to attract big spenders by arranging their travel and handling their gambling credit.
但是中国赌客，尤其是那些豪赌者，在过去一段时间对澳门是避而远之。这种转变，是由反腐行动、放缓的中国经济，以及对中间人运作的缺乏信任所引起的。所谓中间人运作，就是中介代表赌场，通过安排豪客的行程和处理他们的赌账额度来吸引这些人。
Fitch Ratings predicts that Macau’s economy will shrink 1 percent in 2015 and warns that weakness in the V.I.P. market may spread to ordinary visitors. The city government’s budget for next year is based on little change in tax revenue from this year — suggesting that zero growth is expected.
惠誉国际评级(Fitch Ratings)预计，2015年，澳门经济将收缩1％。该机构还警告称，高端游客市场的孱弱可能扩散至普通游客市场。澳门政府次年的预算建立在今年税收发生微小变化的基础上——这说明经济增长预计为零。
“Short term, we are quite bearish” on the Macau market, said Mr. Fischer of CLSA.
CLSA的费希尔说，面对澳门市场，“短期来看，我们相当悲观”。
Transforming Macau, though, won’t be easy.
不过，让澳门改头换面并非易事。
Softness in the V.I.P. segment of Macau’s gambling industry has made the mass market more important. Millions of middle-class mainland Chinese with disposable income have plenty of options for gambling in South Korea and several Southeast Asian countries.
随着澳门博彩业中的高端客户部分走低，大众市场开始变得更加重要。数以百万计的大陆中产阶级，拿着可以自由支配的收入，在博彩方面拥有大量选择——既可以去韩国，也可以去几个东南亚国家。
The large lower end of the mass market may have been priced out of the casinos, with the minimum bet at some tables doubling since last year to more than $250, Mr. Fischer said. There is also a generational fault line: older, hard-core gamblers who tend to play baccarat, and lots of it, and younger travelers who view gambling as only one part of their experience in Macau.
费希尔说，自从去年，有些赌桌上的最低赌注发生翻倍，增加到超过250美元以后，大众市场规模庞大的低端部分可能会因为价格过高而被迫退出赌场。这里还存在一个代际断层线：年纪较大的铁杆赌徒倾向于玩百家乐，而且玩得很多；而在较为年轻的游客眼中，赌博仅仅是他们澳门经历的一部分。
Macau’s short supply of land will also constrict growth..
澳门土地的不足也会限制增长。
“We believe Macau is a tourism story, and without more hotel rooms, then Macau can’t grow the overnight visitor market,” Mr. Fischer said. Macau’s casino operators have around 16,000 hotel rooms, compared with 160,000 hotel rooms in Las Vegas.
“我们认为，澳门是一个旅游城市。但是如果没有更多酒店客房，澳门将无法扩大其过夜游客市场，”费希尔说。澳门的赌场经营者拥有约16000间客房，而拉斯维加斯则拥有16万间客房。
The older gambling district of the city — home to the Grand Lisboa, whose owner is the Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, and to the first casinos opened by Las Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts — is all but built up. A newly developed area known as the Cotai Strip is where Macau’s future is being developed
澳门历史比较悠久的博彩业聚集区已经基本上没有空间了——澳门博彩公司澳博控股(Sociedade de Jogos de Macau)所有的新葡京(Grand Lisboa)和拉斯维加斯金沙集团(Las Vegas Sands Corporation)以及永利度假村(Wynn Resorts)所开设的第一批赌场就位于此处。被称作路氹金光大道(Cotai Strip)的一个新开发的区域就是开发澳门未来的地方。
The strip is abuzz with construction. A wave of eight large-scale casino resort is to open starting in the middle of next year, along with the second phase of the Galaxy Macau.
这个地区正在忙着建设。从明年中期开始，八家主打赌场的大型度假村将开始营业，澳门银河(Galaxy Macau)的二期工程也将开业。
By the end of 2015, Las Vegas Sands will open its fourth property on the Cotai Strip — the $2.7 billion Parisian Macao, which will feature a half-scale Eiffel Tower replica. Shortly after, Melco Crown Entertainment’s Studio City Resort is expected to open, followed by the $4 billion Wynn Palace. Expansion is underway at the Sands-owned Venetian resort, currently Macau’s largest. Near the Venetian, a Chinese state-owned construction company is building the $2.9 million MGM Cotai.
到2015年年底，拉斯维加斯金沙集团将在路氹金光大道开放它的第四个产业——耗资27亿美元的澳门巴黎人(Parisian Macao)，那里将有一个埃菲尔铁塔(Eiffel Tower)的复制品，其大小是真品的一半。不久之后，新濠博亚娱乐有限公司(Melco Crown Entertainment)的新濠影汇度假村(Studio City Resort)预计也将开业，然后是耗资40亿美元的永利皇宫(Wynn Palace)。金沙集团旗下的威尼斯人(Venetian)度假酒店也在扩张。目前，该酒店在澳门规模最大。在威尼斯人附近，一家中国国有建筑公司正在修建价值29亿美元的美高梅(MGM)路氹金光大道项目。
The central government has also earmarked the adjacent island of Hengqin to partly relieve Macau’s land shortage.
中央政府还瞄准了澳门附近的橫琴岛，以便在某种程度上缓解澳门土地不足的局面。
All of these mega-resort projects — with their casinos and nongambling features like hotels, restaurants, retail and entertainment — will require tens of thousands of employees. That suggests that government action on easing immigration and a ban on foreigners working certain jobs on the casino floor will probably come sooner than later. Immigration is a sensitive issue in tiny Macau, and allowing foreigners to work in the gambling areas of the casinos is likely to upset local labor unions.
所有的超大型度假村项目——既配有赌场，也配有酒店、餐厅、零售和娱乐等非赌博性设施——将需要成千上万的工作人员。这表明，政府可能即将采取行动，放松对移民的限制，并解除禁止外国人在赌场从事某些工作的禁令。在面积狭小的澳门，移民是个敏感问题，允许外国人在赌场的赌博区工作很可能会让地方工会感到不满。
“We simply don’t have enough of a work force, so we need to import workers,” Mr. Siu said. “But the question of how to do this in a socially acceptable way is something that needs discussion and compromise.”
“我们没有足够的劳动力，所以我们需要输入劳力，”萧锦雄说，“但是，关于如何以社会可以接受的方式来做到这一点，还需要讨论和妥协。”