Ten years ago, NASA’s Opportunity rover bounded to the surface of Mars for what was planned to be a three-month exploration.
美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的“机遇号”(Opportunity)火星车10年前抵达了火星表面，开启了为期三个月的探索计划。
Opportunity is still going today — and still making discoveries.
如今，“机遇号”仍在运行，仍在进行探索。
The latest, scientists said on Thursday at a news conference celebrating an anniversary none had expected 10 years ago, is a small rock that seemingly appeared out of nowhere.
周四，科学家们召开新闻发布会庆祝周年纪念日时表示，“机遇号”的最新发现是一块不知来自何处的岩石。10年前，没人能想到大家有朝一日会庆祝“机遇号”运行10周年。
The rock, whose chemical composition was also unexpected, appears in an image taken Jan. 8. There was no rock in a picture taken of the same spot less than two weeks earlier.
这块岩石出现在1月8日拍摄的一张照片中，岩石的化学成分也出人意料。不到两周之前，在同一位置拍摄的照片中并没有这块岩石。
“This is strange,” said Steven W. Squyres, the principal investigator for Opportunity, during the NASA news conference. But he added, “We don’t think anything particularly exotic happened here.”
“机遇号”研究主任史蒂文·W·斯奎尔斯(Steven W. Squyres)在NASA新闻发布会上表示，“这很奇怪。”不过他还说，“我们认为那里没有发生特别怪异的事。”
Dr. Squyres said the most likely explanation was that as the rover pirouetted at an uphill location, its lame right front wheel, which has not turned for years, dragged across the rock and flicked it out of the ground to its new location. The scientists have not yet spotted the divot where the rock popped out, but that spot may be obscured by the rover’s solar panels.
斯奎尔斯博士表示，可能性最大的解释是，火星车在一个较高的位置转圈时，已经失灵、多年没有转动过的右前轮压住了这块岩石，并将它甩到了现在的位置。科学家们还没确认这块岩石是从哪个位置弹出来的，那里可能已被火星车的太阳能电池板遮住了。
Year after year, Opportunity goes farther than anyone dreamed. The expectation had been that it would drive about a kilometer — six-tenths of a mile — before dust accumulated on the solar panels and the batteries drained.
年复一年，“机遇号”的成就都会超出所有人的想象。科学家曾经预期，到太阳能电池板积满灰尘，电池耗尽之时，“机遇号”会行进1公里（0.6英里）。
Unexpectedly, fortuitous winds periodically cleaned off the solar panels, and Opportunity, as well as its twin, Spirit, continued to operate. Spirit got stuck in a sand dune 2009 and then fell silent in 2010 after it was not able to point its solar panels toward the sun during the winter months.
出人意料的是，偶尔刮起的风会定期清除太阳能电池板上的灰尘，“机遇号”与其孪生兄弟“勇气号”(Spirit)继续运转。“勇气号”在2009年陷入了沙丘当中，由于未能在冬季使太阳能电池板朝向太阳，“勇气号”在2010年陷入沉寂。
Instead of one kilometer, Opportunity has driven 38.7 kilometers, or about 24 miles, exploring a series of ever larger craters, taking 170,000 pictures along the way.
“机遇号”不止行驶了1公里，而是38.7公里，它探索的撞击坑越来越大，沿途拍摄了17万张照片。
“It’s a well-made American vehicle,” said Raymond E. Arvidson, the deputy principal investigator.
研究副主任雷蒙德·E·阿维森(Raymond E. Arvidson)说，“这可是一部制作精良的美国车。”
Over all, the rover remains in good health, despite the lame wheel, two scientific instruments that are no longer working, and a robotic arm with arthritislike stiffness. John L. Callas, the project manager, said the rover had also suffered an “amnesia moment,” probably caused by aging memory chips.
总的来说，这辆火星车状态良好，尽管车轮出了故障，两个科学仪器已经无法工作，一只机械臂像得了关节炎一样，不易弯曲。项目主管约翰·L·卡拉斯(John L. Callas)表示，这辆火星车还经历过“瞬间失忆”，可能是由于内存芯片老化引起的。
“It’s just an operational annoyance,” Dr. Callas said. “But if it gets precipitously worse, there are some corrective actions we can take.”
“这只不过带来了操作上的困难，”卡拉斯博士说。“但如果情况急剧恶化，我们还可以采取一些补救举措。”
Perhaps a greater obstacle to Opportunity’s continued roving might be the limits of NASA’s budget. This spring, NASA officials will review all of NASA’s spacecraft that have lived beyond their original missions. Opportunity currently costs $14 million a year.
NASA的预算限制或许是“机遇号”继续运行面临的一个更大障碍。NASA官员将在今年春天审核所有服役时间超出原定计划的航天器，“机遇号”目前的花费为每年1400万美元（约合8500万元人民币）。
“We have to weigh how much money we have and what missions are most productive,” said Michael Meyer, the lead scientist for NASA’s Mars exploration program.
NASA火星探测项目首席科学家迈克尔·迈耶(Michael Meyer)说，“我们需要考虑我们有多少资金，哪些任务最有成效。”
The newly discovered rock is like nothing Opportunity has seen. Dr. Squyres said it appeared to have flipped upside down, possibly exposing its underside for the first time in several billion years.
新发现的岩石与“机遇号”过去的发现都大不相同。斯奎尔斯博士表示，这块岩石似乎翻了个跟头，可能是几十亿年来岩石底部首次曝光。
“It looks like a jelly doughnut,” he continued: “White around the outside, red in the middle. We’ve looked at it with our microscope. It’s clearly a rock.”
“它看起来像是一个果酱甜甜圈，”他接着说。“外面一圈是白色的，中间是红色的。我们用显微镜看了一下，明显就是一块岩石。”
The composition is strange — high in sulfur, magnesium and manganese. “This is an ongoing story of discovery,” Dr. Squyres said. “Mars keeps throwing new stuff at us.” 
岩石的构成非常奇怪，硫、镁和锰的含量很高。“这则探索故事还在不断发展，”斯奎尔斯博士说。“火星不断给我们带来新的东西。”
In Friday’s issue of the journal Science, scientists report on recent analysis of rocks along the rim of the 14-mile-wide Endeavour Crater where Opportunity is currently exploring. Following readings from Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, Opportunity headed to rocks that appeared to contain a clay mineral known as iron smectite.
在周五出版的《科学》(Science)杂志上，科学家发表了有关“奋进”撞击坑(Endeavour Crater)边缘处岩石的分析报告，“机遇号”目前正在探索这个直径14英里的撞击坑。“机遇号”根据火星勘测轨道飞行器(Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter)的读数，前去寻找似乎含有粘土矿物铁蒙脱石的岩石。
“Doesn’t mean much to many people,” said Dr. Arvidson, who is the first author on the Science paper. “But to geologists, it’s pretty exciting, because it’s a clay mineral that forms in a particular aqueous environment.”
“这对很多人来说没什么意义，”上述《科学》论文的第一作者阿维森博士说。“但对于地质学家来说，这个发现令人兴奋，因为这是一种在特别的水环境中形成的粘土矿物。”