No one, least of all Jeremy Lin, would be so presumptuous to call it a last laugh. But it is fair to say that Lin has earned, at the expense of his former team and its impetuous owner, a well-timed chortle.
没有人会狂妄地把这称为“笑到最后”，林书豪尤其不会。但公平地说，林书豪眼下有资格朝着老东家及其轻率浮躁的老板露出得意洋洋的笑容。
Ever the spiritual man, Lin, reflecting on what now appears to be a prosperous relocation from New York to Houston, said, “I do believe God has the perfect plan.” As it turns out, the fast-track building strategy hatched a couple of years ago by Daryl Morey, the Rockets’ general manager, was not so bad, either.
如今看来，从纽约到休斯敦是走了一步好棋，林书豪回顾此事时说，“我相信上帝自有最好的安排。”他向来都是一个属灵的人。事实证明，休斯顿火箭队总经理达里尔·莫雷(Daryl Morey)几年前规划的快速重建球队战略原来也不错。
Two nights after scoring 31 points off the bench, Lin started and rang up 34 points and 12 assists, but he and the Rockets, without James Harden, wilted late and dropped a 123-117 overtime decision to the 76ers on Wednesday night at Wells Fargo Center. Next stop: Madison Square Garden on Thursday night for an appointment with the Knicks.
替补出场获得31分两晚之后的周三晚上，在富国银行中心球馆对阵76人队时，林书豪首发出场，打出34分和12次助攻的成绩，但在詹姆斯·哈登(James Harden)缺阵的情况下，火箭队被76人队翻盘，经过一个加时以117:123不敌对手。接下来的周四晚上，火箭队将在麦迪逊广场花园球馆客场对阵纽约尼克斯队。
With Lin as Houston’s premier offensive threat Wednesday, the Rockets looked like what they were supposed to be when the Knicks let him go as a free agent in the summer of 2012. Lin said that when he signed with Houston, he did not expect that Harden and Dwight Howard would be his teammates.
在星期三那场林书豪作为得分主力的比赛中，火箭队看上去像是发挥了尼克斯队2012年夏放弃自由人林书豪时应有的水平。林书豪说，他在跟休斯顿签约的时候没有想到哈登和德怀特·霍华德(Dwight Howard)会成为他的队友。
But Morey traded for Harden and lured the Kobe Bryant-averse Howard as a free agent, quickly giving Lin a better developmental environment than he would have had as the leading man — or, for that matter, as a Carmelo Anthony running mate with the soap opera that is the Knicks.
但莫雷交易到了哈登，并把跟科比·布莱恩特(Kobe Bryant)合不来的霍华德以自由人的身份招入队中，很快就给林书豪创造了一个更好的发展环境，比他自己当男主角更好——也比在尼克斯队的肥皂剧里给卡梅隆·安东尼(Carmelo Anthony)当配角好。
After the Knicks owner James L. Dolan refused to match Morey’s upgraded offer sheet, remember how Lin’s detractors in New York ridiculed him for consigning himself to be the counterfeit marquee player on a dreadful team?
还记得尼克斯队老板詹姆斯·L·多兰(James L. Dolan)拒绝给出跟莫雷一样的报价后，纽约那些林书豪的批评者是如何嘲笑他签了一支糟糕的球队、成为那里的假冒台柱吗？
“They’ve done a great job on this team of surrounding us with really good players,” he said. “It’s definitely an adjustment, but I’m just so thankful every day I get to play. Two years ago I was just trying to make it; 15th man didn’t matter to me just as long as I was on the team. I always try to take a step back from the journey and see the bigger picture.”
“火箭队的工作做得很棒，它为我们吸纳了真正优秀的球员。”他说。“当然是有需要适应的地方，但上场打球的每一天我都心存感激。两年之前，我还在努力找机会上场；觉得只要能在球队里，位居第15位也不重要。在旅途中我总是会退后一步，看看大局是什么样。”
That was what Dolan and the Knicks claimed they were doing when they let a young asset and one of the most marketable players in team history wander off without getting so much as a draft pick in return.
这正是多兰和尼克斯队声称自己在做的事情，而与此同时，他们却在没有换回多少选秀权的情况下，放弃了年轻、有潜力的林书豪，尼克斯队历史上最卖座的球员之一。
Many critics, one of whom was named Carmelo, chanted the organization’s mantra that agreeing to a $25 million deal with a luxury-tax-burdensome $14.9 million balloon payment in its third and final year would have been Linsanity. But raise your hand if you think the Knicks could use an aggressive guard who is averaging 18.1 points on 54.2 percent shooting (51 percent on 3-pointers after making 9 of 15 against the 76ers) and 4.9 assists per game.
很多批评者——其中一位名叫卡梅隆——翻来覆去地唱尼克斯队的老调：休斯敦火箭为林书豪开出3年价值2510万美元的邀请合同，最后一年有一个高达1490万美元的巨额尾款，这会带来沉重的奢侈税负担，是在发“林来疯”(Linsanity)。但是，如果你觉得尼克斯队需要一个平均每场贡献18.1分和4.9次助攻、命中率达54.2%（对阵76人队时，他投的15个三分球中命中了9个，三分球命中率达51％）的控卫的话，请举手。
Averaging 34.3 minutes a game, Lin has a shooting percentage that is a shade better than Howard’s, and most of Howard’s points are scored with his hands fastened to the rim.
林书豪的平均上场时间为34.3分钟，命中率略高于霍华德，而且后者的多数得分都是直接把球扣到篮筐里。
“When he plays with confidence, he’s amazing,” said Howard, who spent part of the summer working out with Lin in Colorado.
“当林书豪充满自信时，他的表现好得惊人，”霍华德说，今年夏天有段时间他在科罗拉多州跟林书豪一起训练。
It is too early in the season to make too much of statistics or standings, and no one is about to anoint the 5-4 Rockets as N.B.A. champions. Their defense — Lin’s included — tends to be on the generous side. But they have youth, talent and upside, like Lin.
现在还为时尚早，无需把本赛季的统计数据和涨幅榜看得太重，而且也没有人会从5胜4负的火箭队身上看出它有夺取NBA总冠军的苗头。他们的防守——包括林书豪在内——显得有些太慷慨了。但是，他们拥有年轻的、有才华的、处于上升期的球员，比如林书豪。
“I think he’s playing better right now for us than at any point last year,” Coach Kevin McHale said. “He’s attacking; he’s confident. He put a big summer of work in. His shot is better. He is better.”
“我认为跟去年任何时候相比，他现在都打得更好了。”火箭队主教练凯文·麦克海尔(Kevin McHale)说，“他充满自信，会出手攻击。一个夏天的练习他进步很大。现在他的跳投更好了。他的水平更高了。”
Without Harden to lean on, Lin appeared to tire down the stretch and committed eight turnovers over all. “Normally, I relish the fourth quarter,” he said later. His statistical line was reminiscent of the Garden-variety Linsanity. But his turnovers were mostly errors of commission, the results of trying to do too much.
没有哈登可以依靠，林书豪在末段显得精疲力尽，总共出现了8次失误。“通常来说，我很喜欢第四节，”后来他说。他的数据让人想起了昔日尼克斯队主场上的“林来疯”。但他的失误主要是战术执行上的问题，是他试图做太多事情所导致的结果。
He is, of course, only 25 and learning his trade.
当然，他只有25岁，还处在学习阶段。
“This might sound crazy, but I still think it’s early for me in my development phase, or whatever you want to call it,” he said.
“这听起来可能有点傻，但我仍然觉得现在是我发展阶段的早期，不管你把这个阶段叫什么。”他说。
How did the Knicks make the shortsighted call on a player who had already succeeded way beyond what pro basketball sleuths could imagine for Lin at Harvard — and one who seemed like a good bet to continue working at his craft?
尼克斯队怎么能如此短视，放弃了这样一个球员呢？当时林书豪的成就已经远远超出他在哈佛打球时职业篮球星探做出的判断——而且看起来他的球艺还会继续提升。
“I thought if any team knew what it had, it was going to be New York,” Morey said. “At the time, we had nobody on our roster with All-Star potential. We thought: ‘O.K., he’s not an All-Star, but he played like one for 30 games. So take a chance.’ ”
“我以为应该没有哪支球队比纽约更懂得自己手上有些什么了，”莫雷说，“当时，火箭队里没有全明星潜力的球员。我们想：‘好吧，他不是一个全明星球员，但他在30场中比赛中表现得像个全明星。所以我们就试试吧。’”
Had Dolan reasoned that Lin, as an Asian-American sensation, was probably worth $2 in commercial appeal for every $1 he was paid, Lin would still be trying to figure out how to play with Anthony.
即便多兰把林书豪作为亚裔美国人的明星效应考虑在内——你每向他支付1美元薪水，可能就能换回2美元的商业号召力——林书豪也还是需要找到跟安东尼合作的方式。
Harden, like Anthony, is known to monopolize the ball. Hence McHale’s recent experimenting with Lin as a second-unit scorer playing first-unit minutes, until Harden sat with a minor foot injury Wednesday night.
跟安东尼一样，哈登也是出了名的喜欢单打独斗。因此，麦克海尔最近就尝试让林书豪以主力的上场时间扮演替补阵容得分手的角色，直到周三哈登因为脚部小伤不能上场。
“Me and James still play a lot together, but they still want me to be aggressive, the primary ball handler off the bench,” Lin said. “There’s still chemistry problems — not like problems, just things we’re trying to get better. No personality issues.”
“我和詹姆斯仍然有很多配合，但他们还是希望我打得更凶一些，一个板凳上的头号控球手，”林书豪说。“这里还有个默契问题——不算是问题，只是我们在努力更好地配合。不是个性方面的问题。”
Thanks to certain Garden personalities, one of the great New York basketball yarns took a wrong turn and wound up in Texas. Long-suffering and implausibly loyal Knicks fans were stiffed again after what felt like a rare homegrown happening at the Garden.
正是拜麦迪逊花园的某种个性所赐，一个精彩的纽约篮球传说拐错了一个弯，到了德克萨斯。在花园球馆难得地有了一个自己一手促成的重大发现后，长期承受煎熬而又无比忠诚的尼克斯球迷们再次陷入沉默。
Understand that this has worked out better for Lin, who does not think his second return to New York should be a big deal in the context of who will be with him. Calling Harden and Howard “the faces of the franchise,” he added, “I’m hoping I’ll be a subplot.”
大家要明白，这件事对林书豪来说是更好的结局。考虑到跟他一起来的都是些什么人物，他没想过第二次回纽约跟老东家对阵会变成这么一件大事。林书豪称哈登和霍华德是“火箭队的招牌”，他说，“我希望能作个陪衬。”
Chortle, chortle.
笑吧，笑吧。