AFTER the joy of the birth itself, parenthood sometimes brings the unwelcome news that a newborn has jaundice and must wear goggles and be placed under special lights. Imagine how different this experience might be if there were no goggles, just a warm blanket covering the tiny body, a healing frequency of blue light emanating from its folds.
刚刚晋升为人父母的夫妻在体验了宝宝降生的喜悦后，有时可能也会迎来不幸的消息——新生儿患有黄疸，必须佩戴护目镜，并被安置在特殊的灯光环境中。试想一下，如果不需要戴护目镜，只有一条暖融融的毯子包裹着婴儿娇嫩的身体，毯子的褶皱处放射出具有治疗效果的蓝光光频，这样的体验该有多么不同。
That comforting scene, already a reality in some hospitals, is evidence of the fundamental rethinking of lighting now under way in research labs, executive offices and investor conferences. Digital revolutionaries have Edison’s 130-year-old industry, and its $100 billion in worldwide revenue, in their sights. Color, control and function are all being reassessed, and new players have emerged like a wave of Silicon Valley start-ups.
如今，这种温暖人心的场景在一些医院已经成为了现实。这是一个实例，证明了无论是在科研实验室、行政办公室还是投资者大会上，如今，人们都在从根本上反思着光的应用。爱迪生所创立的照明事业，已有130年的发展史，如今每年在全球范围内创收1000亿美元（约合人民币6073亿元）。而现在，数字领域的革新者们已经开始着眼这一行业。灯光的色彩、控制和功能都成为重新评估的对象，新的行业参与者应运而生，比如硅谷就涌现出了一大批这样的创业公司。
“This is the move from the last industrial-age analog technology to a digital technology,” said Fred Maxik, the chief technology officer with the Lighting Science Group Corporation, one of many newer players in the field.
“这是从工业时代的模拟技术向数字技术转型的一步。”照明科学集团公司(Lighting Science Group Corporation)的首席技术官弗雷德·马克西克(Fred Maxik)表示。照明科学集团公司是照明业大量涌现的创业企业之一。
The efforts start with energy efficiency and cost savings but go far beyond replacing inefficient incandescent bulbs. Light’s potential to heal, soothe, invigorate or safeguard people is being exploited to introduce products like the blanket, versions of which are offered by General Electric and in development at Philips, the Dutch electronics giant.
转型虽从能源效率和成本节约入手，但人们需要做的远不止换掉低效的白炽灯泡。灯光具有治疗疾病、安抚人心、振奋精神、安全防护的潜力，这些潜力正在被挖掘，而由此衍生的产品就包括发光毯——通用电气(General Electric)已推出若干种款式，而荷兰电子巨头飞利浦(Philips)正在开发新品。
Innovations on the horizon range from smart lampposts that can sense gas hazards to lights harnessed for office productivity or even to cure jet lag. Digital lighting based on light-emitting diodes — LEDs — offers the opportunity to flit beams delicately across stages like the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge — creating a light sculpture more elegant than the garish marketers’ light shows on display in Times Square, Piccadilly Circus and the Shibuya district in Tokyo.
目前初露端倪的创新产品包括：能检测气体危害的智能街灯柱；用于提高办公效率、甚至治愈时差反应的灯具等等。有了基于发光二极管（即LED）的数字化照明技术，人们就能在旧金山-奥克兰海湾大桥(San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge)这样的平台上，营造出柔和的浮光掠影——由此打造的灯光雕塑，可比艳俗的营销者在时代广场(Times Square)、皮卡迪利广场(Piccadilly Circus)和东京的涩谷区(Shibuya district)制造的灯光秀要高雅得多。
“Up till now we only thought — do I have enough light to see, to clean my room, to cut a diamond?” said Ed Crawford, a senior vice president of Philips Lighting Americas. “Now it impacts what I do, how I feel, in emotional ways.”
“以前，我们考虑的只是：有没有足够的光线，让我看东西、清理房间、切割钻石？”飞利浦照明美洲区高级副总裁埃德·克劳福德(Ed Crawford)表示，“而现在，灯光从情感上影响了我的所作所为，和思想感受。”
In the United States, lighting consumes more than 20 percent of electric power generated each year; the Energy Department says LEDs can cut consumption by up to 80 percent. LEDs — also called solid-state lighting — are already a $12.5 billion business worldwide, according to analysts at the research firm Strategies Unlimited in Mountain View, Calif.  A 2012 McKinsey report estimates LEDs will be an $84 billion business by 2020.
在美国，每年的总发电量中超过20%为照明所消耗。能源部表示，LED能将电量消耗减少80%。根据加州山景城(Mountain View)的研究公司Strategies Unlimited的分析，又称“固态照明”的LED在全球的市场产值，已达到了125亿美元（约合人民币759亿元）。而根据麦肯锡公司(McKinsey)2012年发布的报告，LED的市场规模将在2020年达到840亿美元（约合人民币5101亿元）。
But there is an obstacle or two facing the LED revolutionaries. One is existing modes of lighting: Edison’s screw-based socket, the office’s fluorescent ceiling tubes, and metal halide or sodium lights in parking lots are not going away anytime soon.
不过，LED领域的革新者还面临着一、两个障碍。第一个障碍来自当前的照明模式：爱迪生发明的螺丝灯座、办公室配备的荧光吸顶灯管、停车场安装的金属卤素灯或钠光灯，都并不会在短时间内被淘汰。
Another hurdle is public wariness after the environmental exhortations of the 2000s, which led to much-disputed federal legislation to phase out the old incandescents, often in favor of compact fluorescent bulbs. In pursuing their goals, advocates played down problems like the harshness of fluorescent light, and difficulties with dimming the bulbs and dealing with the toxic mercury they contain. Now, some lighting scientists say, both consumers and investors are leery of buying into something they suspect might be substandard.
另一个障碍来自公众的戒心，这是在本世纪头十年里形成的，当时美国国内开展了倡导环保的运动，导致了一项争议性很大的联邦法案得以通过，将旧式白炽灯从市场上淘汰，转而采用紧凑型的荧光灯泡。为达成目标，法案的倡导者们刻意对荧光灯泡的问题轻描淡写：比如荧光灯比较刺眼，很难调低亮度，而且还得小心灯泡中含有毒的汞。有些照明科学家表示，如今，消费者和投资者都很小心，不会轻易购买他们觉得可能会不达标的产品。
Another powerful force for continuity is the psychological legacy of light as we know it — from sun to candle to bulb. Isn’t the cartoon shorthand for a new idea a glowing bulb over the thinker’s head?
传统灯具仍被继续使用的另一重要原因在于：从阳光到蜡烛，再到灯泡，这些照明设备已经在人们脑海里留下了心理印记。动画片里不是经常用一个人头顶出现发亮的灯泡，来代表他产生了新的灵感吗？
So some companies are selling the new digital lighting in forms that will fit into the prerevolutionary world, with its sockets and streetlamps — including familiar bulb shapes.
因此，有些公司将数字照明设备做成了传统的式样，以迎合人们在数字革命前的消费习惯。这些产品带灯座，外观与街灯无异，还具备人们熟悉的灯泡外形。
Philips is producing a bulb called Hue that fits into the old sockets and not only dims and brightens, but also changes colors on command. Mr. Crawford said that in his lamps division, 25 percent of sales income now comes from LEDs; he expects it to increase to 50 percent in two years. In 2008, that number was close to zero.
飞利浦正在生产一种名为“色调”(Hue)的灯泡，它能安装在传统的灯座上，不仅可以调节亮度，还可随意改变灯光颜色。克劳福德表示，如今在他的照明事业部，25%的销售收入来源于LED；他希望这一比例能在两年内增长到50%。而在2008年时，这一比例还几近于零。
One reason adoption will speed up, Mr. Crawford believes, is that in recent years, consumers have been asked to compromise on quality to get energy savings. With the latest generation of LEDs, he said, “the consumer gets the energy savings without compromise.”
克劳福德认为，人们对LED的接受度将会加速的一方面原因在于，近年来，消费者们总是被要求牺牲生活质量，才能达到节省能源的目的；而有了新一代LED产品，他说，“消费者无需做出牺牲，就能节能了。”
The cost barrier is getting lower. Until recently, it typically cost $30 to buy an LED that could replace a 60-watt glass incandescent bulb bought for less than a dollar. Now Cree, a semiconductor manufacturer, has 40-watt and 60-watt LED equivalents for $10 and $14.
成本壁垒正变得越来越低。不久前，买家如果想替换掉一支不到一美元（约合人民币6元）的60瓦玻璃白炽灯泡，需要花30美元（约合人民币182元）来购买一支LED灯泡。但现在，半导体制造商科锐(Cree)推出了价格更低的白炽灯替代产品，该公司40瓦和60瓦LED灯泡的售价分别为10美元（约合人民币61元）和14美元（约合人民币85元）。
James Highgate, an expert on the new technology who runs an annual LED industry conference, sees a transition period ahead “for the next three to five years, until the eight billion sockets in the U.S. get filled” with LEDs. “Some people will never change,” he added. “They’ll be in the alleys buying 100-watt incandescents.”
詹姆斯·海格特(James Highgate)是LED技术专家，每年都会举办一场LED行业会议。他认为，“未来三到五年”将是一个转型期，直到美国的800万个灯座安装上LED灯泡。“有些人永远不会变，”他补充道，“他们会一直购买100瓦的白炽灯。”
But a new poll done by the lighting company Osram Sylvania showed that fewer consumers were listing “burned out or broken” as the main reason for switching bulb formats. According to a company news release, “68 percent of Americans say they have switched lighting for increased energy efficiency.”
不过，照明公司欧司朗Sylvania(Osram Sylvania)的一项新调查表明，很少有消费者会将灯具“烧坏或碎裂”，作为更换灯泡类型的主要原因。根据该公司发布的信息，“68%的美国人表示，他们更换灯具是为了提高能源效率。”
Energy efficiency is only the beginning, according to experts on the lighting innovations. Take communication between lights. At the University of California, Davis, a bike path illuminated at night with a “just in time” system has one light node alerting another and another down the line as a bicycle goes by, progressively lighting the rider’s way, then dimming back into an energy-saving mode.
照明革新领域的专家表示，提高能源效率，还只是照明革新的起步诉求。以灯光间通信技术为例。在加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)有一条自行车道，在夜间采用的是“实时管理”(just in time)系统照明：有自行车通过时，一个个灯光节点次第触发后面的节点，渐进地照亮骑车者前方的道路，等车子走后就自动转暗，切换为节能模式。
Michael Siminovitch, director of the California Lighting Technology Center at the university, said that with the new technology “we’re going to be able to create a variety of control features in terms of how we introduce points of light in space, but we’re also going to be able to do it with planes and areas of light.” For example, he said, there could be light-generating ceilings or walls.
该校加州照明技术中心(California Lighting Technology Center)的负责人迈克尔·西敏诺维奇(Michael Siminovitch)表示，有了这项新技术，“我们就能在制造点光源时，实现多种多样的控制功能。面光源和区域光也是一样。”比如说，据西敏诺维奇说，将来可能会出现可发光的天花板或墙壁。
Engineers like Mr. Maxik at Lighting Science are now imagining cities that light their streets as needed, without benefit of lampposts. He has created a fixture that could replace the reflective medians in highways south of the snow belt. Once installed along the road’s centerline, they provide as much illumination as streetlamps. The metal and wiring that go into the streetlamp would be unnecessary.
照明科学集团公司的马克西克等工程师，如今正在构思一个想法：在城市当中实现街道自身的按需照明，而无需安装街灯柱。他已经制造了一种设备，可以在冰雪带以南的高速公路上，替代公路中线上设置的反光源。一旦安装到公路中线上，这种设备就能提供与街灯同等强度的照明。而且，街灯内部的金属和布线也都没有安装的必要了。
Lighting Science has teamed up with Google to develop a light bulb — soon to be available — that is controllable with an Android phone app.
照明科学集团公司已携手谷歌(Google)开发一款灯泡，这款即将面市的灯泡可以通过安卓手机应用来控制。
But just as it will take consumers a while to give up familiar light sockets for lights embedded in walls or ceilings, it is likely to take cities and their public works departments some time to give up their lampposts.
不过，市政当局和公共工程部门可能需要一段时间的适应期，才会换掉街灯柱，这就好比消费者一时半会儿也不会换掉嵌入墙壁或天花板的灯座一样。
Recognizing this, other companies, like the newly renamed Sensity Systems (formerly Xeralux) are reimagining lampposts as nodes in a smart network that illuminate spaces, visually monitor them, sense heat and communicate with other nodes and human monitors.
正因为意识到了这一点，其他公司——比如最近更名的Sensity Systems（原名Xeralux）——正将街灯柱重新构想为一个智能体系中的节点，此体系不仅能为空间照明，还可进行视频监控、感应热度，同时与其他节点和人工监视器进行交流。
In addition to such functions — which could raise privacy concerns, though perhaps less so after the Boston Marathon bombings — the new systems could sharply cut the cost of street lighting. The data could be sold to app developers who could create, say, an app to help find parking.
这些功能可能会引起人们对隐私问题的担忧，只不过在波士顿马拉松爆炸案发生后，有关隐私问题的争议会少一些。除了这些功能外，新系统还能显著减少街道照明的成本。系统收集的数据可被卖给应用开发商，以供他们编写一个比如帮使用者找车位这样的应用。
The idea, said the company’s chief executive, Hugh Martin, is “wherever there’s a light, there’s data being generated.”
Sinsity Systems公司的首席执行官休·马丁(Hugh Martin)说，其设计理念在于，“只要是有光的地方，就有数据产生。”
Mr. Maxik said: “It’s the convergence of the light source, the novel controls we can apply to it and the ability to program it which makes solid-state lighting as a category unique. That becomes the enabler of the new forms and new functions.”
马克西克说：“固态照明之所以是一种独特的照明形式，就是因为我们不仅制造了光源，还在控制手段上花样翻新，同时对其进行编程。这样一来，我们就能开发出新的照明形式和功能。”
Many of the elements of the nascent revolution seem in place. A host of relatively new entrants — Lighting Science, Eye Lighting, Ohm Lighting and TerraLUX among them — are moving into what had been a market dominated by large, established companies like General Electric, Philips and Osram Sylvania.
在这场照明业的新革命中，有许多标志性的元素似乎已经显露出来。照明科学、Eye Lighting、欧姆照明(Ohm Lighting)、TerraLUX等相对年轻的公司大量涌现，它们正着力打入通用电气、飞利浦、欧司朗Sylvania等知名大企业统治的市场。
In both the newer and older camps, researchers are trying to reimagine uses for light and ways of controlling it. What kinds of controls? Adjusting the intensity of a light between dim and bright, of course, has been done for decades — but not often in outdoor settings. Other options, indoors and out, include changing the frequency and color of the light, or having it pulsate — think of the multicolor displays atop the Empire State Building.
无论是在新阵营还是传统阵营中，研究人员都在尝试对灯光的用途及控制方式进行反思。哪些类型的控制方式是可取的呢？当然，调整灯光亮度的做法在几十年前就已开始采用了——只不过不常用于室外环境。其他在室内和户外环境皆可行的照明控制方式还包括，改变灯光的光频和颜色，或使之有节奏地律动——请回想一下帝国大厦楼顶五彩缤纷的灯光盛宴。
This color-changing capability has applications far beyond the theatrical. Consider sea turtle hatchlings leaving nests along the Florida coast that are led astray by bright white lights, luring them inland when they should head seaward. Lighting Science is one of several companies that offer a solution; its $29.99 amber “turtle lights” are on sale in Satellite Beach, Fla., near the most active turtle nesting area.
这种灯光变色技术的应用领域，还远不止呈现戏剧化的场景。举个例子，佛罗里达海岸刚孵化出来的小海龟在离巢后本应回到大海，但却因岸上绚烂的白色灯光而迷了路。针对这一情况，不少公司提供了解决方案，照明科学就是其中一家；该公司推出的29.99美元（约合人民币182元）的琥珀色“海龟灯”已在佛罗里达州卫星海滩(Satellite Beach)发售。那片海滩附近就是海龟产卵活动最活跃的地区。
For the workplace, Osram Sylvania’s researchers are looking to control light to improve office productivity. As Lori Brock, director of research and innovation at the company’s technology lab in Massachusetts, said: “It optimizes the illumination for the task you’re doing. If you sat at your desk to use the computer, maybe the overhead light would dim, increasing the contrast so you could see better. Other lights could go to an energy-saving hue.” Ideally, productivity increases while energy costs decrease.
从照明技术在工作场所的应用来看，欧司朗Sylvania的研究人员正着眼于控制灯光，来提升办公效率。洛瑞·布洛克(Lori Brock)在欧司朗Sylvania位于马萨诸塞州的技术实验室担任研究与创新总监，他说：“可以设计一个系统，让它根据你所做的事情来优化照明环境。如果你坐在办公桌前使用电脑，可能头顶上的灯光就会暗下来，增加对比，这样屏幕上的字就会更加清晰。其他光源就可以切换为节能的色调。”在理想情况下，在办公效率提升的同时，能源成本也会降低。
As for health applications, the Lighting Research Center of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute has focused its research on the physiological and psychological impacts of light. This might lead to light fixtures in hotel rooms and elsewhere that enhance sleep or restore the circadian rhythms of jet-lagged travelers.
从照明技术在健康领域的应用来看，伦斯勒理工学院(Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute)的照明研究中心(Lighting Research Center)已开始集中研究灯光在生理和心理上对人的影响。这可能会使酒店客房等场所中的灯具在未来具备促进睡眠，或通过恢复周期节律来帮助旅行者倒时差的功能。
Philips’s lighting division is working on a product that allows people with psoriasis to have light treatments at home, not in the hospital. It has also introduced a blue-light-emitting poultice to relieve muscle pain by releasing the nitric oxide in the patient’s system, stimulating blood flow.
飞利浦照明事业部正在开发一种产品，使牛皮鲜患者足不出户就可以接受光疗。该公司还推出了一款能发蓝光的膏药，可以在人体内释放一氧化氮，增强血液循环，从而帮助患者缓解肌肉疼痛。
“This is where the promise is,” said Dr. Siminovitch of the U.C. Davis center. “The promise is going to be on well-being, wellness, biology — lighting starts doing something for us that is inherently different.”
“这就是前景所在，”加州照明技术中心的西敏诺维奇说，“它的前景在于造福人类、为人类的健康保驾护航，同时与生物技术相结合——照明技术开始为我们发挥完全不同的功用了。”