VIGNOLS, France — High in the thick grass meadows of the southern French Alps, a modern parable of man and nature, sheep and wolf, is being written in a great quantity of blood.
法国维尼奥尔——在阿尔卑斯山脉南部茂密的草原上，一部现代版的人与自然、羊与狼的寓言故事正在用大量的鲜血书写着。
With official encouragement, herders and farmers had hunted the gray wolf to extinction in France by the 1930s. Within a half-century, though, the animal had been made a protected species throughout Europe; the first wolves re-entered French territory from Italy in 1992, a small and delicate population at the outset. Much to the thrill of conservationists and European officials, they have thrived.
在政府的鼓励下，法国牧民和农夫已经在20世纪30年代将这里的灰狼赶尽杀绝。但是半个世纪后，这种动物成了欧洲的一个被保护物种；第一批灰狼在1992年从意大利重新引入法国，一开始这个种群的数量很少、比较脆弱。让环保主义者和欧洲官员兴奋的是，这批灰狼的生命力旺盛。
But to the exasperation of this region’s shepherds, who for generations have scaled these hills with the seasons, the species’ success has been due in no small part to the ample, easy pickings. Wolves have been slaughtering vast numbers of sheep here — at least 20,000 in just the past five years, according to an official count. The government has spent tens of millions of euros in efforts to stanch the attacks, but to little avail, and shepherds increasingly call the wolf an existential threat.
然而，让这个地区世世代代随季节在山上放牧的牧民恼火的是，这个物种的成功在很大程度上得益于充足且容易获取的食物。灰狼杀死了该地区大量的羊，根据一项官方统计，仅在过去5年中，就至少有2万头羊被狼咬死。法国政府已经投入了几千万欧元用于减少狼群袭击，但收效甚微，牧民越来越多地把灰狼看作是生存的威胁。
“They’re killing shepherding as I know it,” said Bernard Bruno, 47, who has lost at least a thousand sheep in recent years. The wolf’s return may symbolize environmental progress to some, said Mr. Bruno, a stout, blue-eyed man who has spent 25 summers alone here with his flock and a walking stick. But it has also imperiled “one of the last natural, ecological kinds of livestock farming,” he said.
47岁的贝尔纳·布鲁诺(Bernard Bruno)在最近几年中至少损失了1000头羊，他说，“我所知道的牧羊生活正遭到扼杀。”布鲁诺身强体壮、有一对蓝色的眼睛，他在这里单独度过了25个夏天，只有他与他的羊群和一根手杖。他说，灰狼的回归对某些人来说可能象征着环境的进步，但这让“最后几种自然生态地放牧方式之一”陷入险境。
One environmental ideal has undermined another, shepherds say. Were they to write the moral of their story, it might go like this: wolf and sheep may happily coexist in the airy hypotheticals of ecological theory, but they don’t mix so well in the pasture.
牧民说，一种环境理想破坏了另一种。如果让他们来写这个故事的寓意的话，可能会是这样：狼和羊在不切实际的假想生态理论中可能和谐共处，但在草原上它们相处得不怎么样。
Mr. Bruno’s lonely, pastoral approach — one still practiced by 60,000 French herders, though their numbers have fallen drastically in recent decades — is indeed supported by environmentalists, the government and the European Union as a model of sustainable agriculture. It is just the sort of communion of tradition and progressivism that appeals to European notions of modernity, and it is heavily subsidized as a result.
在法国从事布鲁诺这样的孤独放牧方式的牧民还有6万人，尽管近年来这一数字在急剧下降，他们的方式被环保主义者、法国政府和欧盟(European Union)当作一种可持续的农业模式，的确也得到支持。这正是那种传统生活与进步主义相融合的模式，很符合欧洲人的现代化观念，因此得到不少的政府补贴。
Nonetheless, the average shepherd finishes the year with earnings that approximate the minimum wage, according to government figures. It is a hard living made harder by the wolf.
然而，政府数据表明，牧民每年的平均收入大约只相当于最低工资。这种生活本来不易，狼让其雪上加霜。
“If you ask me, when they talk about ‘environmentalism’ today, it’s meant for city people,” Mr. Bruno said. “You go talk about the bear, the wolf, about nature that’s a bit wild, and you send them all off dreaming.
布鲁诺说，“如果你让我来说，我认为他们现在说所的‘环保主义’只是为城里人的。你可以大谈熊和狼，大谈有点野性的自然界，你让他们脑子里充满了梦想。”
“Come ask us, the shepherds, about putting sharks in the Mediterranean,” he added wryly. “You’ll get 99 percent in favor. I don’t go swimming, I don’t give a damn!” 
他讽刺地说道，“来问问我们这些牧羊人怎么看待把鲨鱼放到地中海吧，99%的人会支持。我不游泳，我才不在乎呢！”
French authorities spend millions each year to reimburse herders for lost animals and to subsidize the hulking Great Pyrenees guard dogs that now pad alongside many flocks. Despite the protestations of conservation groups, the government has also organized the shootings — “samplings,” in official parlance — of a handful of wolves. Nothing seems to have worked, though; sheep and goat losses doubled in the past five years to nearly 6,000 in 2012.
法国政府每年投入几百万，以补偿牧民的牲畜损失，以及补贴有着巨大躯体的比利牛斯大狗的喂养，如今很多羊群旁都跟着这种护卫犬。政府还不顾环保主义者的抗议，组织了一些猎杀灰狼的活动，用官方的话来说那叫“取样”。然而，所有这些好像都不成功；过去5年中，绵羊和山羊的损失量翻了一番，达到2012年6000头的数字。
The government’s national wolf plan calls for more shootings, but this notion, too, has proved more effective in theory than in practice. Except in rare cases, the animals can be legally killed only with case-by-case approval from the authorities; by the time a decree has been pronounced and a hunting party raised, the wolves have generally vanished into the hills. Just eight have been killed since 2008.
政府的全国狼计划呼吁人们猎杀更多的狼，但事实证明，这个想法也是说起来容易做起来难。除了在极少数的情况下，合法杀死这种狼需要有当局的个案批准；等到准杀令批下来，召集到了狩猎队伍后，狼群早就大都消失到山里去了。自2008年以来，只猎杀了8条狼。
Up to 24 shootings will be authorized this year under an updated wolf plan, but only one wolf has been killed thus far. The population is believed to be growing by about 20 percent each year.
根据一项改进后的猎狼计划，今年将批准24场打猎活动，但迄今为止只打死了一条狼。人们认为狼群的数量正在以每年20%的速度增长。
Shepherds have done what they can. Most have accepted the unpredictable guard dogs, despite concerns about attacks on hikers; some shepherds sleep beside their animals in the fields. Many slaughter and sell fewer of their ewes, knowing that some of the animals they keep will not survive to give birth to the next year’s flock.
牧民也在尽力做他们所能做的。他们中的大多数接受了那种不完全听话的守护犬，尽管有人担心它们会袭击在山中远足的人；有的牧民夜里和自己的羊群一起睡在野外。许多牧民减少了宰杀和贩卖母羊的数目，因为他们知道留下来的不一定都能活到明年产仔的时候。
Denis and Éliane Rogeri, who set their sheep to pasture on the ravine slopes above La Bollène-Vésubie, have reduced their flock, hired additional herders and taken on five guard dogs. In winter, they now lock their sheep in a ragtag farm building beside their home. They have nonetheless lost perhaps 1,500 head to wolf attacks since 1994, they said, though they no longer keep a precise count.
丹尼斯(Denis)和伊莲娜·罗热里(Éliane Rogeri)将他们的羊群赶到拉博莱讷韦叙比(La Bollène-Vésubie)上面的山沟里放牧，他们已经减少了羊群的数量、额外雇了一些牧羊人，还添了5条守护犬。现在，他们冬天将羊群锁在离家不远的一个破旧的农场建筑里。尽管如此，他们说，1994年以来他们大概共有1500头羊被狼咬死。
“Otherwise, we’d wonder what we’re still doing here,” said Ms. Rogeri, 51.
今年51岁的伊莲娜·罗热里说，“要不然，我们想知道我们还在这儿干嘛。”
The state reimbursed the Rogeris for about 30 sheep last year: 90 euros, or $120, per lamb, 160 euros, or $210, per ewe, and “stress bonuses” of several hundred for the first few attacks of the season. But the $6,600 the couple paid this year to truck their sheep to a safer summer pasture will not be covered; nor will the food for their dogs, or the losses for the traumatized lambs that will perhaps fail to fatten.
去年，国家给罗热里家赔偿了约30头羊的损失：每头羔羊90欧元（约合726元人民币），每头母羊160欧元，还给他们发放了几百欧元的“压力补助”，为的是补偿季节最初的几起袭击。政府不会补偿这对夫妇今年的很多花销，比如把羊群用车运到更安全一点的夏季牧场已经花掉的6600欧元，养狗也要花不少的钱，还有那些因狼袭击而受惊将来可能不会长肥的羊羔所带来的损失。
Financial strain aside, the wolf has transformed the quiet rituals of herding in ways that are exhausting, shepherds say.
除了经济压力以外，牧羊人说，狼也改变了这种宁静的放牧生活，让其有些方面变得很累人。
“We have to be there guarding them constantly; that’s what’s become infernal — we’re there day and night,” said Mr. Bruno, whose 11 guard dogs could not save the 180 sheep he lost last year.
布鲁诺说，“我们必须不间断地在那里守护它们，不论白天黑夜，我们都不能放松，这简直是地狱。”他的11条守护犬未能保住去年他损失的180头羊。
On a recent evening, Isabelle Feynerol set out across a dusky valley and up the wooded mountainside opposite her farmhouse in Canaux, about 15 miles from the Mediterranean. Ms. Feynerol, 49 and a former nurse, raises 240 Préalpes sheep on the 900 acres she took over from her father a decade ago.
最近一个晚上，伊莎贝尔·费纳罗尔(Isabelle Feynerol)开始穿过一个昏暗的山谷，爬上她家农场对面长满树木的山坡，她家的农场位于距离地中海约24公里的加诺(Canaux)。今年49岁的费纳罗尔以前曾是一名护士，十年前她从父亲那里继承了900英亩的土地，放养了240头前阿尔卑斯羊。
The wolves had not yet reached this area then, and she was not yet obliged to make the steep daily trek up to her troop.
那时狼群还没有进入这片土地，她也不用每天都走很远的路去管羊群。
“The flock wasn’t in danger, and that changes everything,” said Ms. Feynerol, who now locks her animals in an aluminum outbuilding at night.
“以前羊群没有什么危险，那真不一样，”她说。现在费纳罗尔晚上要把羊群锁进一个铝制的室外建筑中。
She feels her work is authentic and “true,” and perhaps a model to be promoted, she said, but she is exhausted by the physical routine and a sense of helplessness. Initially, she lost as many as 15 sheep each year; with the flock indoors at night, the losses are now just a handful, but she knows each animal and even those killings remain traumatic for her.
她说，她觉得她的工作很真实，是“真正的”，或许值得提倡，但她已被这种无休止的体力劳动搞得精疲力尽，也感到很无助。最初，她每年最多损失15头羊；夜里把羊群锁起来后，现在损失的数目少点了，但她认识自己的每一头羊，就连过去的那些损失对她来说依然是精神创伤。
“I don’t know what more I can do,” Ms. Feynerol said, reaching the valley floor as darkness fell. “And no one has an answer.”
费纳罗尔在黑夜降临时走到了谷底，她说，“我不知道我还能再做些什么。没有人知道该怎么办。”