In September, Jennifer Hunt of Brown County, Ind., was awarded a bachelor’s degree from Thomas Edison State College in New Jersey without ever taking a Thomas Edison course. She was one of about 300 of last year’s 3,200 graduates who managed to patch together their degree requirements with a mix of credits — from other institutions, standardized exams, online courses, workplace or military training programs and portfolio assessments.
印第安纳州布朗郡的詹尼弗·亨特(Jennifer Hunt)去年9月份刚刚拿到新泽西州托马斯爱迪生州立大学(Thomas Edison State College)授予的学士学位。不过，亨特根本没有修习过托马斯爱迪生的任何课程，而是将通过各种途径获得的学分拼凑起来以满足该校学士学位的申请要求。她的学分获得途径包括：在其他大学进修、参加标准化考试、进行网络课程学习、在工作或军训期间参加各种形式的培训、通过组合式评估等。去年，托马斯爱迪生州立大学3200名毕业生中，有300名是像亨特这样获得学士学位的。
Years ago, fresh out of high school, Ms. Hunt had finished enough advanced work to enter the University of Texas at Austin with sophomore standing. But after a year, homesick, she returned to Virginia. Then she married and eventually moved to Indiana. She had 10 children, whom she home-schools, and worked in her husband’s business.
数年前，刚高中毕业的亨特以优异的成绩直升为德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)的大二学生。然而，在那待了一年，因为非常想家，她回到了弗吉尼亚，然后结婚并最终将家搬到印第安纳。亨特生了10个孩子，她不仅在家亲自教育这些孩子，而且还在她丈夫经营的公司上班。
About a year ago, at 39, she resolved to complete a degree. In a kind of a higher-education sprint, she took a number of college equivalency exams, earning 54 credits in 14 weeks.
大约一年前，39岁的亨特终于决定要完成学位课程的学习。在这场高等教育冲刺中，亨特参加了一系列同等学力考试，在14周时间内修完了54个学分。
“I tried to do an exam a week at the University of Indianapolis test center,” where the exams could be proctored, she said. “Each test cost about $80.”
“我努力在每个星期参加一门功课的考试，考点在印第安纳波利斯大学(University of Indianapolis)考试中心（在该中心的考试能够安排监考）。每一门课程的考试费用大约为80美元，”亨特说。
Ms. Hunt estimated that her degree in business administration, plus a simultaneous associate degree in applied science, had cost her $5,300, including books and fees. There are almost as many routes to a Thomas Edison degree as there are students. In a way, that is the whole point of the college, a fully accredited, largely online public institution in Trenton founded in 1972 to provide a flexible way for adults to further their education.
据亨特本人估计，为了获得工商管理学士学位和应用科学副学士学位，她一共花费5300美元，包括书本费和杂费。在托马斯爱迪生州立大学，几乎可以说有多少名学生就有多少种获得学位的途径。1972年建立的托马斯爱迪生州立大学特伦顿网络开放教育中心已通过资质认证，专为成人学员提供灵活的继续教育途径。从某种意义上讲，这是这所学校的特色。
“We don’t care how or where the student learned, whether it was from spending three years in a monastery,” said George A. Pruitt, the college’s president, “as long as that learning is documented by some reliable assessment technique.”
“我们不管学生是如何学习、在哪学习的——哪怕他们是花三年时间在修道院完成学业的，只要他们的学习效果能得到某种具有可信度的测评机制的认可即可，”托马斯爱迪生州立大学校长乔治·A·普鲁特(George A. Pruitt)说。
“Learning takes place continuously throughout our lives,” he said. “If you’re a success in the insurance industry, and you’re in the million-dollar round table, what difference does it make if you learned your skills at Prudential or at Wharton?”
“学习贯穿我们生命的始终，”普鲁特说，“如果你在保险行业卓有成就，而且已经光荣地加入百万美元圆桌会，那么，你的本领到底是在保成集团(Prudential)还是在沃顿商学院(Wharton)习得的，这个问题还重要吗？”
At a time when student debt has passed $1 trillion, such institutions seem to have, at the very least, impeccable timing. Thomas Edison, New Jersey’s second-largest public college, and two like-minded institutions — Charter Oak State College in Connecticut and the private, nonprofit Excelsior College in New York — are all growing. Thomas Edison’s graduating class last fall was a third bigger than the class five years earlier. And the idea of measuring students’ competency, not classroom hours, has become the cornerstone of newer institutions like Western Governors University in Utah.
美国的学生贷款余额曾经一度超过1万亿美元，这为托马斯爱迪生这样的机构提供了发展的绝佳时机。托马斯爱迪生州立大学是新泽西州第二大公立大学，与它办学思路差不多的还有康涅狄格州的查特尔奥克学院(Charter Oak State College)和纽约州的非盈利性私立大学伊克塞尔希尔学院(Excelsior College)。托马斯爱迪生州立大学去年秋季毕业班的毕业生数量比五年前高了三分之一。以能力而不以在教室上课的学时数为中心的学业评价机制俨然已成为包括位于犹他州的西部州长大学(Western Governors University)在内的一些新兴大学的办学理念。
At Thomas Edison and the other such colleges, almost all students are over 21, many are in the military, and few have taken a direct path to higher education.
在托马斯爱迪生和其他类似的大学，几乎所有的学生年龄都在21岁以上。他们中许多人是现役军人，而只有极少数是高中毕业直接升入大学的。
Pilar Mercedes Foy, 31, a Thomas Edison graduate whose parents did not go to college, said after she got an entry-level job at PSEG, the New Jersey energy company, she realized that she would need a degree to advance. She earned the bulk of her credits through heavily subsidized evening classes offered at work, supplemented by classes at Union County College and 12 credits from the CLEP Spanish exam. For her, earning a degree without taking on a penny of student debt was enough of a milestone that she invited her husband, parents, siblings, in-laws and nieces to the September graduation ceremony.
31岁的派拉·梅赛德斯·福伊(Pilar Mercedes Foy)是托马斯爱迪生州立大学的毕业生，父母都未曾上过大学。她说，成为新泽西能源企业PSEG电力集团(PSEG)的一名初级职员后，她意识到自己要想在事业上有所提升，必须要有一个学位作为支撑。她的大部分学分来自公司大力资助的在职夜校课程和在尤宁郡学院(Union County College)的学习，还有12个学分则来自CLEP西班牙语考试。对她来说，不背一分钱的债就能获得学士学位是件足以值得庆祝的事，因此她邀请丈夫、父母、兄弟姐妹、公公婆婆和侄女们参加了9月份举行的毕业典礼。
Thirty years ago, when Dr. Pruitt became president, the Thomas Edison approach was controversial. Some academics, in particular, were skeptical, he said, almost believing that “if we didn’t teach it to you, you couldn’t have learned it.”
30年前，普鲁特博士刚当上托马斯爱迪生州立大学校长的时候，这种开放性的办学方式还是颇具争议的。普鲁特说，当时尤其是一些学术界人士对此深表怀疑。他们认为：“如果我们不在课堂上传授知识，学生是不可能学会的。”
Results have quieted most naysayers, Dr. Pruitt said. For example, Thomas Edison graduates had the highest pass rate on the exam for certified public accountants in New Jersey, in the latest national accounting-boards report. Still, the approach raises real questions about the meaning of a college degree.
普鲁特博士说，学校最终用良好的办学效果平息了那些怀疑主义论调。譬如，根据美国会计委员会最近公布的报告，托马斯爱迪生的毕业生在公共会计师认证考试中的通过率在新泽西州排名第一。不过，也正因此，这种办学模式引起了人们对学士学位意义的质疑。
“If I’m giving you a degree, I’m vouching for you, testifying to your competence,” said Clifford Adelman, a senior associate at the Institute for Higher Education Policy in Washington. “With these nomad students in higher education, whose students are they? There are questions of ownership and ethical responsibility.”
“如果我授予你一个学位，那意味着我为你担保，证明你的能力，”华盛顿高等教育政策研究所(the Institute for Higher Education Policy in Washington)高级研究员克里夫德·阿德尔曼(Clifford Adelman)说，“高校里这类学生到底是谁的学生？这里存在归属性和伦理责任方面的问题。”
Most Thomas Edison students arrive with some credits, at times earned many years earlier. Others get credits by submitting a portfolio of their work or passing standardized exams like the College Level Examination Program, administered by the College Board. Many complete online college courses from Thomas Edison or “open courseware” sources like the Saylor Foundation. Many bring transcripts from the American Council on Education’s credit recommendation program, certifying their nontraditional programs.
托马斯爱迪生州立大学大多数学生在入学之前就已修得一些学分，其中有些学生是好几年前获得的这些学分。另外还有一些学生获得学分的方式包括递交工作经验报告、参加由美国大学理事会(College Board)组织的像CLEP这样的标准化考试。许多学员完成了托马斯爱迪生的网络在线课程或塞勒基金会(Saylor Foundation)的“开放课件”资源的学习，还有许多学员申请学位时带着美国教育理事会(American Council on Education)大学学分服务机构提供的成绩总表，以此证明他们参加过与传统学习模式有别的相关进修。
Arthur C. Brooks, a former economics professor at Syracuse who heads the American Enterprise Institute, earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from Thomas Edison in 1994, at age 30, after a decade as a musician. He took correspondence courses, he said, “at the cheapest places I could find.”
美国企业研究所(American Enterprise Institute)所长亚瑟· C·布鲁克斯(Arthur C. Brooks)曾任锡拉丘兹大学(Syracuse)经济学教授。1994年，时年30岁的布鲁克斯获得托马斯爱迪生经济学学士学位。而此前他曾当了十年音乐人。布鲁克斯说，他都是“通过能找到的最省钱的函授途径”修完学位要求的相应课程的。
Mr. Brooks believes he did the same homework, wrote the same papers and took the same tests as on-campus students at other colleges, without meeting a single professor. To get his degree, he had to prove mastery of economics in a two-hour telephone conversation with a professor at Pace University.
布鲁克斯相信，虽然没有见过任何老师，但他完成的作业、论文、参加的考试与其他全日制学生并无二致。为了获得学位，他还得通过电话形式参加长达两小时的论文答辩，向佩斯大学(Pace University)的一个教授展示自己对经济学的掌握情况。
“It was like a field exam,” said Mr. Brooks, now 48. “He asked about Adam Smith, John Keynes, supply and demand, macro and micro — everything an economics major at any university would be expected to know.”
现年48岁的布鲁克斯说：“电话答辩就像是一场现场考试。导师提的问题包括亚当·斯密(Adam Smith)、约翰·凯恩斯(John Keynes)、市场供需、宏观微观等方面，基本涵盖了一个经济学专业大学生应该掌握的每一个知识领域。”
David Esterson, 45, of Whittier, Calif., started taking college classes while in high school, attended the University of Washington for a year, was a photographer in Los Angeles, then started a music business. About three years ago, when his nephews began talking about college, Mr. Esterson decided he should complete his degree.
来自加州惠蒂尔的大卫·艾斯特森(David Esterson)现年45岁，他早在高中时期就进修了大学课程，然后在华盛顿大学(the University of Washington)学习了一年。他曾是洛杉矶的一名摄影师，后来又创立了一家音乐公司。大约三年前，也就是他的侄子们开始规划大学教育的时候，艾斯特森才意识到自己也应该完成学位课程了。
He took online courses at the University of Minnesota and the University of Phoenix before trying a couple of California community colleges and an acupuncture school. He finally earned a bachelor’s degree in liberal studies from Thomas Edison in September.
艾斯特森先是在明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)和凤凰城大学(University of Phoenix)修完网络在线课程，然后又在加州的几所社区学院和一所针灸学校上了学。9月份，他终于如愿以偿，以自由学习的方式获得了托马斯爱迪生州立大学的学士学位。
“It sounded like a scam, but the fact that it was a state school, and accredited, made it more real,” Mr. Esterson said.
“这种学位获得途径听起来像是骗人的，但托马斯爱迪生是一所经过认证的州立大学，这无疑增加了其可信度和真实性，”艾斯特森先生说。
And it has been real, he said: “Nobody I contacted about graduate programs seemed to look down on the Edison degree, and I got into every grad school I applied to.”
而实际上，它确实是真实可信的。他说：“后来在申请研究生学习项目的过程中，没有人对我的学士学位有任何偏见，我申请的每一所研究生院都同意录取我。”
Now enrolled in two graduate programs — an online master’s in leadership at Northeastern and a dual-degree executive M.B.A. program from Cornell University and Queen’s University in Canada — Mr. Esterson is a booster for his alma mater. “I’ve never been there, but I did buy a sweatshirt,” he said.
如今，艾斯特森先生已正式成为两所研究生院的研究生。他在东北大学(Northeastern)攻读领导力硕士学位，同时在攻读康奈尔大学(Cornell University)和加拿大皇后大学(Queen’s University)合办的双学位EMBA项目。艾斯特森先生是其母校的坚定支持者。他说：“我从未去过母校，但我买了件印有母校名称的运动衫。”