Jarring things can happen when the sea comes crashing into human habitats.
海水冲入人类居住地时，会发生可怕的事情。
After Hurricanes Harvey and Irma battered Texas, the Caribbean and Florida, some memorable characters, stories of tragedy and moments of grace emerged from the wreckage.
在飓风“哈维”(Harvey)和“艾玛”(Irma)袭击德克萨斯州、加勒比地区和佛罗里达州后，废墟中出现了一些值得纪念的人物、悲剧故事和善意瞬间。
The storms also left behind several unexpected mementos.
暴风雨还留下了几件突如其来的纪念品。
Some were surprising, like the old — and possibly historically significant — wooden canoe that washed ashore not far from Cape Canaveral, Fla. Some were macabre, like the dozens of coffins that were nudged aboveground in Texas. And some, like the many animals wrenched from their habitats or left stranded by receding tides, were alive.
有些令人感到惊讶，比如那艘古老的、可能具有历史价值的独木舟，它被冲到了离佛罗里达州卡纳维拉尔角不远的海岸。有些让人毛骨悚然，比如德克萨斯州那几十口被推出地面的灵柩。还有些则是活物，比如从栖息地逃出来的或被退去的海浪搁浅在岸边的很多动物。
An old boat resurfaces
一艘重新出现的旧船
On Sept. 11, Randy Lathrop was riding his bike near the shore in Cocoa, Fla. — an early morning habit for him — when he came upon something strange.
9月11日，兰迪·莱思罗普(Randy Lathrop)在佛罗里达州可可海岸附近骑自行车时——那是他清晨的一个习惯——看见了一个奇怪的东西。
To an untrained eye, it might have looked like a large piece of driftwood. But Mr. Lathrop, a photographer and a history buff, homed in on a few unusual features.
在普通人看来，它可能就是一大块浮木。但莱思罗普是一名摄影师兼历史爱好者，他注意到它有几个不同寻常的特点。
“I was kind of taken aback,” he said. “I was like, ‘Well, this can’t be.’”
“我差点惊呆了，”他说。“我说，‘呃，这不可能。’”
It was a dugout canoe, of the type that humans have carved from trees since ancient times. This one was made of cypress wood and it featured a seat and some square iron nails.
它是人类自古以来一直在制作的那种挖空树干的独木舟。它是用柏树做成的，有一个座位，钉了几个方头铁钉。
Mr. Lathrop found a neighbor with a truck and lugged the waterlogged canoe — he estimated it weighed several hundred pounds — onto the truck bed. It is now being stored in a safe place.
莱思罗普发现一个邻居在费力地把这个被水浸泡的独木舟往自己的卡车上拖。他估计它有几百磅重。现在，独木舟被存放在一个安全的地方。
The boat could be hundreds of years old, Mr. Lathrop said, though he added that he had no way to know for sure. He has alerted state authorities, who are working to learn the canoe’s origins.
莱思罗普表示，这艘船可能有几百年的历史，不过他又说他不确定。他通知了佛罗里达州当局，后者正在努力弄清这艘独木舟的来历。
“It is Florida state law that you should report this type of thing, and these items do belong to the people of the State of Florida,” he said, adding that with any luck, the canoe would be displayed at a museum.
“佛罗里达州法律要求你汇报这类事情，这种东西属于全体佛罗里达州人民，”他说。他还说，幸运的话，将来这艘独木舟会在博物馆里展示。
A creature with teeth
长着尖牙的生物
Something far less appealing washed up in Harvey’s wake on the shores of Galveston Bay in Texas City, Tex.
哈维飓风过后，在德克萨斯州德克萨斯城加尔维斯顿湾岸冲上来的东西就没这么迷人了。
Preeti Desai, a social media manager at the National Audubon Society, was documenting the organization’s efforts to assess the hurricane’s effect on birds in the area on Sept. 6 when she came across a baffling animal.
9月6日，美国奥杜邦学会(National Audubon Society)在评估哈维飓风对该地区鸟类影响，学会的社交媒体经理普里蒂·德赛(Preeti Desai)在记录评估过程时看见了一个令人困惑的动物。
It was dead, brown, bloated and fanged.
它已经死了，棕黄色，浮肿，有尖牙。
Ms. Desai, an amateur photographer, took a picture and posted it to Twitter, seeking identification help from followers with taxonomical bona fides.
德赛是一名业余摄影师，她拍了一张照片，发到了Twitter上，希望了解生物分类学的关注者能告诉她这是什么生物。
The response was swift. Several experts suggested the creature could be a fangtooth snake-eel, a fish native to the area that tends to hide in underwater burrows but darts out to snatch fish and crustaceans, while others on social media reacted with horror and called it a monster.
她很快收到了回复。几名专家表示，那可能是该地区土生土长的毒牙蛇鳗，它们往往藏在水下洞穴里，但会猛冲出来抓鱼和壳类生物。社交媒体上的一些人感到恐惧，说它是怪物。
Ms. Desai estimated that it was only three or four feet long, including its tail, and was not monstrous at all.
德赛估计，它只有三四英尺长，包括尾巴，完全不像是个大怪物。
“This isn’t scary. It’s just a part of nature,” she said, adding that she was glad the picture drew such interest. “My hope is that at least there are some people who get more curious about nature and the outside world.”
“它不可怕。它是大自然的一部分，”她说。她还说，她很高兴那张照片能引起这么多兴趣。“我希望至少有些人会对大自然和外部世界更好奇。”
Coffins can float away
被冲走的灵柩
In Texas, Hurricane Harvey paid no respect to those who were meant to be resting in peace.
在德克萨斯州，飓风“哈维”对那些本应平静地长眠于地下的人没有表现出敬意。
Coffins buried in shallow graves are vulnerable to floods, said Lashon Proctor, who owns Proctor’s Mortuary in Beaumont, Tex. Sometimes they inch up, rising above the ground, and sometimes even float away.
德克萨斯州博蒙特普罗克特殡仪馆(Proctor’s Mortuary)馆长拉桑·普罗克特(Lashon Proctor)表示，埋在浅墓地里的灵柩容易遭到洪水冲击。有的会浮起来，升到地面上，甚至被冲走。
“There’s always the possibility of them coming up,” Mr. Proctor said. “Of course, we don’t want to deal with that, and we don’t want that to happen. But it does.”
“它们一直都有被水冲上来的可能，”普罗克特说。“这种情况当然是很难处理的，我们不想看到这种事发生。但它的确会发生。”
At small, remote or privately owned cemeteries, burial regulations are often less strict and coffins in shallow graves can be dislocated by storms. Over the years, hundreds have been displaced by Hurricanes Matthew, Katrina, Rita and others.
在小型、偏僻或私人所有的墓地里，埋葬规定通常不太严格，埋得比较浅的灵柩可能会被暴风雨移位。这些年，成百上千口灵柩已经被“马修”(Matthew)、“卡特里娜”(Katrina)和“丽塔”(Rita)等飓风移位。
After Harvey, it happened to dozens of graves in Texas, Mr. Proctor said. He said his company worked with gravediggers to quickly rebury dozens of exposed coffins in cities and towns along Interstate 10, which runs through Beaumont.
普罗克特表示，飓风“哈维”过后，德克萨斯州有几十个墓地发生了移位。他说他的公司正在与掘墓人合作，迅速重新掩埋穿过博蒙特的10号州际公路沿线城镇的几十口暴露在外的灵柩。
Turtles pushed back, and then set forth
海龟被冲上岸，然后再次启程
Plenty of living things, too, were displaced by the storms.
很多活物也被暴风雨挪动了位置。
In Florida, hundreds upon hundreds of young loggerhead and green turtles — both protected species — were pushed ashore by Irma. Melanie Stadler, the sea turtle program coordinator at the Brevard Zoo in Melbourne, Fla., said its turtle healing center took in just over 1,500 turtles that were found on Florida’s eastern coast.
在佛罗里达州，成百上千只年幼的红海龟和绿海龟被飓风“厄玛”冲到了岸上。它们都是受保护的物种。佛罗里达州墨尔本布里瓦德公园(Brevard Zoo)的海龟项目协调人梅拉妮·斯塔德勒(Melanie Stadler)表示，那里的海龟疗养中心接收了1500多只在佛罗里达东海岸发现的海龟。
They were in good shape, she said (past hurricanes have brought in younger, sicklier bunches) and the zoo kept them fed until the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission helped send them back to the ocean — specifically, to the beds of algae where young turtles can find food and shelter.
她说，那些海龟的状况良好（过去的飓风曾带来更年幼、虚弱的海龟），该公园会喂养它们，直至佛罗里达鱼类和野生动物保护委员会(Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission)帮忙把它们送回大海，尤其要送到水藻床上，年幼的海龟能在那里找到食物和藏身之处。
Ms. Stadler said the proper protocol for people who find protected species of turtles washed ashore was to alert the commission or the county’s Sea Turtle Preservation Society. After Irma, there were also designated sites where people could leave the turtles for the zoo and other conservationist organizations to pick up.
斯塔德勒表示，按照规定，人们找到冲上岸的受保护海龟后，应该通知该委员会或美国海龟保护协会(Sea Turtle Preservation Society)。飓风“艾玛”过后，人们还可以把海龟放在一些指定区域，以便该动物园和其他保护组织收集。
“Fortunately there are so many people in Florida that care so much about turtles,” Ms. Stadler said. “When they see one, they forget about protocol and they just call whoever they know who takes care of turtles.”
“幸运的是，佛罗里达有很多人喜欢海龟，”斯塔德勒说。“看到海龟后，他们不理会常规做法，直接给他们认识的随便什么会照顾海龟的人打电话。”