KATMANDU, Nepal — On Katmandu’s Basantapur Durbar Square on Tuesday, a heavy wooden beam was slipping down what was left of the Maju Dega Temple.
尼泊尔加德满都——周二，加德满都的杜巴广场，一根沉重的木梁从太后庙(Maju Dega)的废墟上滑落。
Members of a volunteer search-and-rescue team were clambering up and down the temple’s base, using the beam as a stepladder and occasionally sending a shower of bricks crashing onto it. It would end up on a pile of timber, in a square traversed by people, exposed to the rain.
一支志愿搜救队的队员们正利用滑落的木梁作为梯子，在寺庙基底上下忙碌着，滑落的砖石不时地掉在木梁上。这些木材最终会被收集在一起，堆放在行人穿梭的广场日晒雨淋。
If you worked as an antiquities dealer, you would note certain things about the beam: It was intricately carved with the image of two deities and possibly dated to the 17th century — the kind of piece that could sell for many thousands of dollars at an auction house in the West.
如果你是一个古董商，你可能会注意到梁上有某些细节：有两个雕工精湛的神像，可能是17世纪的出品——这类古建筑构件拿到西方的拍卖行可以卖到数万美元。
In the three days since a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal, the death toll has mounted so quickly, to more than 5,000, that most concerns other than the health and safety of its people have been put aside. Hope for finding survivors was waning, and tens of thousands of people are living in tents despite heavy rains. Reserves of clean water are running low.
尼泊尔发生7.8级地震之后的三天中，死亡人数迅速增至5000以上，与民众的安全与健康不相关的因素都被搁置在一边。找到生还者的希望越来越渺茫，数万人冒着大雨生活在帐篷里。清洁水储备即将耗尽。
But in the meantime, in many places, the detritus of centuries-old temples and palaces has been left unguarded, diminishing chances to eventually rebuild one of the world’s largest clusters of cultural heritage sites. Pedestrians, possibly for sentimental value, are walking away with bricks from the 19th-century Dharahara Tower, which crashed to the earth on Saturday, trapping at least 40 people inside.
而与此同时，多处有数百年历史的寺庙宫殿废墟却处于无人值守的状态。作为世界最大文化遗产集群之一，这样的状况会使未来重建的机会愈显渺茫。一些人可能出于感情因素，带走了达拉哈拉塔的砖块。该塔建于19世纪，在上周六的地震中倒塌，至少40人被困在废墟内。
On Monday, after a citizen called an official in Nepal’s department of archaeology to report having thwarted an attempt to steal a bronze bell from the roof of a temple here in the capital, the authorities took some first steps to guard against looting. A notice was printed in a local newspaper on Tuesday, warning that anyone taking artifacts will be punished.
一位市民致电尼泊尔考古部门的一名官员，说他在首都一座寺庙阻止了一起企图偷盗屋顶铜钟的行为，当局随后在周一开始采取一些防范盗窃的初步措施。周二，当地一家报纸刊登了一则通知，警告任何试图盗窃文物的人都将受到惩罚。
But there was also a sense of helplessness at the magnitude of the calamity that has befallen the Katmandu Valley, a place meticulously documented by preservationists and named a World Heritage Site by Unesco in 1979.
然而，降临在加德满都谷的这场灾难如此沉重，又让人有些无助之感，文物保护人士曾对这里进行过事无巨细的考察记录，联合国教科文组织在1979年命名其为世界文化遗产。
“Nobody is really able to do this — the government not, Unesco not, so I think all have to work together,” said Christian Manhart, the head of Unesco’s office in Katmandu. “There are thousands of sites, and we cannot put a policeman or military on each of the sites 24 hours a day. They are needed for other purposes. So it’s impossible, as you can imagine.”
“没有人有能力做到这点——当地政府不能，教科文组织也不能，我认为只能是各方携手努力，”教科文组织驻加德满都办事处负责人克里斯蒂安·曼哈特(Christian Manhart)说。“有数千处遗址，我们无法在每一处都安排警察或军人24小时值守。别的地方也需要他们。所以你可以想象那是根本不可能的。”
Unesco’s top official, Irina Bokova, said in an interview on Monday that she was unaware of any natural disaster in modern times that had damaged so much cultural heritage.
教科文组织总干事伊琳娜 ·博科娃(Irina Bokova)在周一接受采访时说，据她所知，此次灾难中被毁的文化遗产之多，为近代自然灾害中所未见。
The city of Katmandu was built at the intersection of two trade routes linking China and India, and its architectural heritage reflects overlapping influences: miniature Buddhist votive structures from the seventh century, decorated with fine brass and wood carvings; tiered temples made of fired red bricks; monasteries, religious complexes, palaces, courtyards and clusters of tile-roofed homes.
加德满都这座城市建于两条连接中印的贸易路线的交叉点，它的建筑遗产也反映出来自中印的影响：七世纪的小型佛教供奉建筑，装饰以精致的铜雕和木雕；烧制的红砖建成的多层寺庙；寺院、宗教建筑群、宫殿、庭院和大片的瓦房。
The destruction has been overwhelming. Unesco has said temple complexes in Katmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan are almost destroyed. At Basantapur Durbar Square on Tuesday, teams of volunteers were shoveling debris off the foundations of two temples that had collapsed on Saturday; ambulances arrived to remove two bodies the volunteers found. A few police officers stood in the square, but made no attempt to supervise the effort.
地震造成了极其巨大的破坏。教科文组织称：加德满都、巴克塔布和帕坦的寺庙建筑群基本都被摧毁了。周二，在巴山塔布杜巴广场(Basantapur Durbar Square)上，志愿者们正在清理两座周六坍塌的寺庙基底上的废墟。救护车运走了志愿者们发现的两具尸体。有一些警官站在广场上，却并未试图去监管清理工作。
“There is no organization whatsoever,” said Kaitlin Bull, 22, a tourist from Canada who spent four hours helping clear rubble off Maju Dega. “It’s just a free-for-all.”
“没有任何组织，”22岁的加拿大游客凯特琳·波尔(Kaitlin Bull)说，她花了四个小时帮助清理太后庙上的碎石瓦砾，“什么人都可以参与。”
In the hurry to remove the rubble, carved beams and struts had ended up in piles of scrap wood, though a few particularly beautiful carvings — like one pink-stained piece showing women frolicking acrobatically below two smiling gods — had been set aside.
在匆忙清理碎石瓦砾时，雕花大梁和柱子已经淹没在成堆的木头残片中，尽管有一些特别精美的雕刻已经被放在一旁，比如一件染成粉色的雕像，展示了女人们在两个微笑的神像下嬉戏玩耍，摆出杂耍般的姿势。
Anil Adhikari, a police inspector at a station in the square, said that the only arrests for looting in the square were of eight teenagers who had planned to sell wood carvings at an antiques market. Outside the police station, in white bags used to sell rice, Mr. Adhikari had collected about a dozen statues of gods and goddesses.
安尼尔·阿迪卡利(Anil Adhikari)是广场警察局的一名巡官，他说至今唯一在广场上因为非法劫掠被逮捕的是八个十来岁的孩子，他们打算把木雕拿到古董市场上卖。在警察局外面摆着一些白色米袋，里面是阿迪卡利收集的十来座神像。
Officials said that the issue of looting had taken on more urgency in the past several days, but each seemed to hold another agency responsible for securing the sites.
官员们称劫掠的问题在这些天里变得更加紧迫，但每个官员似乎都认为，保障这些地点的安全是其他部门的责任。
But that was a subordinate worry on Tuesday in Basantapur Durbar Square, where volunteers were intent on removing the last bodies from the dusty rubble. Shortly after noon, they found one, a Nepalese man who was found on his chest, apparently crushed when he tried to run down the temple stairs.
但在巴山塔布杜巴广场这只是一个次要的麻烦，周二在这里，志愿者们正专注于从废墟中转移出最后的遗体。正午过后不久，他们就发现了一具遗体，一个面朝下趴倒的尼泊尔男子，看样子他是在试图跑下寺庙楼梯时被压死的。
Thomas Bell, a journalist and the author of “Kathmandu,” a 2014 book about the city, was watching the volunteers toss down carved beams, which landed atop each other in a cloud of dust. The beams, he said, should be immediately cataloged, stored and protected from any further damage.
记者汤姆斯·贝尔(Thomas Bell)正看着志愿者们抛下雕花的大梁，让这些大梁垒在一起，砸起一团团尘土。贝尔说，这些大梁应该立即编号登记、储存起来，以免进一步受损。贝尔曾在2014年出版过一本讲述这座城市的书《加德满都》。