I have been photographing in Gaza for several years, initially to cover the conflict with Israel, but over time returning because I am mesmerized by the women, and their strength.
我在加沙地带从事摄影多年，起初是报道巴以冲突，但随时间推移，我被加沙女性和她们的力量所吸引。
Gaza is a troubled land, and growing up there isn’t easy. It is a 45-square-mile district, isolated by towering concrete blast walls, reams of barbed wire and patrolling soldiers. At night the drones lull you to sleep. If you stand on the beach and look north you can see lights coming from land that you will never be able to touch. Demarcation and surveillance define your existence. Families are tight, and watchful. In a place as small as Gaza it is impossible to be truly free, many women say.
加沙是一块混乱之地，在那里成长并非易事。这块45平方英里（约116.5平方公里）的地区被高耸的混凝土防爆墙、无数的铁丝网和巡逻士兵隔绝。夜晚，无人机伴你入眠。如果你站在沙滩向北望去，你会看见触不可及之地的灯光。界限和监视定义你的存在。家人凑在一起，总是保持警觉。许多女性说，在加沙这么小的地方，是不可能拥有真正的自由的。
All eyes and everyone you know is monitoring you — your brothers, cousins and neighbors. “I wish I could leave, even for one day, so I can go to a place where no one knows me,” whispered Doaa Abu Abdo, a 27-year-old production assistant. Hadeel Fawzy Abushar, 25, is a singer who performs in concerts promoting peace. Her dream is to sing in Ramallah, a city in the West Bank. Sabah Abu Ghanem, 14, and her sister wake up early to surf the waves on the Gaza beach before attending school. The sisters place first in many competitions inside the strip, but have never left Gaza to compete. In order to leave and enter another country you must be searched, inspected by an airport-style scanner, and lucky, as exit permits and visas to neighboring countries are hard to come by.
所有的眼睛都在盯着你，你认识的每个人都在监视你——无论你的兄弟姐妹，还是邻居。27岁的制作助理朵阿·阿布·阿卜杜(Doaa Abu Abdo)轻声说到：“我希望，我有一天能离开，哪怕只有一天，去一个没人认识我的地方。”25岁的哈迪尔·法兹·阿布沙(Hadeel Fawzy Abushar)是一名歌手，在呼唤和平的多场音乐会上表演。她的梦想是能在约旦河西岸城市拉姆安拉唱歌。14岁的沙巴·阿布·加尼姆(Sabah Abu Ghanem)和姐姐总是起得很早，上学前到加沙海滩冲浪。这对姐妹在加沙许多比赛中夺冠，但她们从来没能走出加沙参赛。想要离开，前往另一个国家，你必须接受被机场用的那种扫描仪搜身、检查，同时需要一些运气，因为出境许可和去邻国的签证难以获得。
Despite hardships, Gaza has one of the finest school systems in the Middle East, with nearly universal literacy. Many young women attend one of the several universities, eventually graduating to become writers, engineers and doctors. Many dream of leaving the strip, to explore the world and find themselves on their own, though they also speak of returning to Gaza. “It’s my home,” they say. “I love Gaza.”
尽管艰难险阻不少，加沙拥有中东地区最好的教育制度，几乎没有文盲。这里有几所大学，许多年轻女性都能上大学，毕业后成为作家、工程师和医生。许多人梦想离开加沙，去探索世界，凭自己找到自我，尽管她们也说会回到加沙。“这是我的家。我爱加沙。”