HONG KONG — Assume, for the sake of argument, that KFC’s fried chicken is, as advertised, “finger lickin’ good.”
香港——为了方便讨论起见，假设肯德基的炸鸡像广告所说，“令人吮指回味。”
Would you really want it to remain on your fingers? Indefinitely?
你真的希望它留在你的手指上吗？而且是无限期地留着？
These are just two of the salient questions raised by the chicken chain’s new Hong Kong marketing campaign, in which it is offering lickable, edible fingernail polish in two flavors: Original, and Hot and Spicy.
这只是这家炸鸡连锁店在香港的新营销活动引发的突出问题中的两个，新营销活动推出了两款食用指甲油：原味和香辣。
“Yes, it is actually a real thing,” said Anna Mugglestone, marketing and communications director for Ogilvy & Mather Group in Hong Kong, the agency running the campaign. “I tried it myself in the office when they were doing testing.”
“是的，真有这个东西，”奥美（香港）广告有限公司(Ogilvy & Mather Group in Hong Kong)的市场营销和交流主管安娜·玛媾斯通(Mugglestone)说，该公司负责运作这次营销活动。“他们在公司做测试时，我本人就尝过它。”
And, as you might expect...
而且，正如你们所期待的......
“It tastes like chicken,” she said. “It’s crazy. I don’t know how they do it.”
“它的味道就像鸡肉，”她说。“这很疯狂。我不知道他们是怎么做到这点的。”
A more logical question would be why.
一个更合乎逻辑的问题好像是为什么。
Ms. Mugglestone said the nail polish was a way “to remind the younger generation” of “the great taste and good times the brand stands for.”
玛媾斯通说，这种指甲油是“让年轻一代回想起该品牌所代表的美好口味和良好时光”的一种方法。
The polish is made in conjunction with McCormick & Company, which produces the spices for KFC’s chicken. It has yet to be mass produced but could be available in the second half of this year.
指甲油与味好美食品有限公司(McCormick & Company)联合制作，这是一家为肯德基炸鸡制造香料的公司。指甲油尚未进入大规模生产，但可能会在今年下半年推出。
KFC is asking Hong Kong customers which flavor they would prefer. “Neither” apparently is not an option.
肯德基正在香港消费者中进行调查，问他们更喜欢哪种味道。“都不喜欢”似乎不在选项之列。
Ms. Mugglestone said there has been “vast interest” in the polish, but comments online ranged from skeptical to harsh.
玛媾斯通说，对这种指甲油有“很高的兴趣”，但在线评论有表示怀疑的，也有很难听的。
“Gross/intriguing,” the fashion and lifestyle website Racked.com tweeted.
“令人作呕/让人好奇，”时装和生活方式网站Racked.com在twitter上写道。
“Original is actually pretty cute for spring,” Glamour.com wrote, “if, you know, it didn’t taste like fried chicken.”
“原味（指甲油）其实在春天看起来挺可爱的，”Glamour.com写道，“如果它不是炸鸡味的话。”