ALEXANDRIA, Va.
弗吉尼亚州亚历山德里亚。
TAKE a renowned economist to lunch, and you learn a few things. For instance, if you dine where children are among the patrons, you can count on bad food. Children are, in fact, one of the reasons American food got so bad. The other reason? Prohibition.
请一个著名经济学家吃午餐，你能学到一些东西。比如，如果你吃饭的地方，老顾客中有孩子，那里的饭菜一定很难吃。实际上，孩子是美国食物如此难吃的其中一个原因。那另一个原因是什么呢？禁酒令。
At Starbucks, the price of coffee isn’t so expensive. But the profit margin changes when you order any special blended milk and sugar concoction. And speaking of beverage prices, if you must order a Coke with your meal, it tends to be cheapest at Chinese restaurants.
在星巴克，咖啡的价格不是那么贵。但是如果你随便点个什么牛奶和糖的混合物，那利润率就变了。说到饮料价格，如果你吃饭的时候必须点杯可乐，那中国餐厅的可乐价格是最便宜的。
Tyler Cowen, an economics professor at George Mason University, compiles these findings and more in a new book, “An Economist Gets Lunch,” which is part economic history of American food, part attack on the self-righteousness of locavores and other food snobs and part guide to getting a better meal at home or a restaurant.
乔治梅森大学(George Mason University)的经济学教授泰勒·柯文(Tyler Cowen)在他的新书《中午吃什么？一个经济学家的无星级开胃指南》(An Economist Gets Lunch)中提到了很多这样的发现。这本书既是美国食物的经济学史，也是对自以为是的土食者（指那些热衷于食用住所附近所产食物的人——译注）以及其他食物势利鬼的抨击，还是在家中或餐馆吃到更美味食物的指南。
Some tips on good eating from Professor Cowen:
下面是柯文教授寻找美食的一些小窍门：
If something on the menu sounds bad, it might well be especially good. Order the ugly and the unknown.
如果菜单上有哪道菜听起来很难吃，那它很可能特别好吃。点那些卖相难看、不知名的菜。
Avoid restaurants with beautiful women, hipsters and smiling and laughing people.
不要去那些有美女、潮人以及微笑或大笑的顾客的餐馆。
Look for the most Islamic of Pakistani restaurants. No alcohol means they have to emphasize the quality of the food to win customers.
寻找那些严格遵守伊斯兰教义的巴基斯坦餐馆。不提供酒水意味着他们为了赢得顾客必须特别注重食物的质量。
Professor Cowen is an expert on the economics of culture and the arts. “I consider the economics of food to follow that,” he said. “It’s a form of commercialized culture.” He has traveled to 80 countries for lectures or research (he wrote a book on the economics of a small town in Mexico) and sometimes just to eat. In addition to his job as a professor, he writes two blogs, Marginal Revolution, on economics, and Tyler Cowen’s Ethnic Dining Guide, on Washington-area food.
柯文教授是文化和艺术经济学专家。“我认为食物经济学跟它们一脉相承，”他说，“它是一种商业化的文化。”他去过80个国家，去做讲座或者做调查（他写过一本关于墨西哥一个小镇的经济学的书），有时就是为了去品尝美食。除了教书，他还写两个博客——边际革命(Marginal Revolution)和民族用餐指南(Ethnic Dining Guide)。前者关于经济学，后者关于华盛顿地区的食物。
So where did Professor Cowen, who lives in Northern Virginia, choose to have lunch to discuss his book? An Ethiopian restaurant in a strip mall wedged between Falls Church and Alexandria, a place that illustrates his belief that anybody can use simple economic analysis to improve their odds of getting a good meal. Professor Cowen said that some of the best food in America can be found in such immigrant restaurants in malls like the ones along El Camino Real in Silicon Valley in California or on Main Street and Northern Boulevard in Flushing, Queens. The best food is not the most expensive and is rarely found in Midtown Manhattan, he said.
那住在弗吉尼亚州北部的柯文会选择去哪里进午餐来讨论他的书呢？夹在佛尔斯教堂(Falls Church)和亚历山德里亚之间的一个带状商业区里的一个埃塞俄比亚餐馆。这个地方证明了他的一个观点：任何人都能用简单的经济学分析来提高自己吃上一顿美餐的几率。柯文说美国最好吃的一些食物能在这样的移民餐馆找到，它们通常位于像加州硅谷埃尔卡米诺路或者皇后区法拉盛(Flushing)缅因街和北方大道这样的购物区里。他说最好的食物不是最贵的，也很难在曼哈顿市中心找到。
This restaurant, Eyo’s, is off Interstate 395, near apartment towers populated by affluent Ethiopians. It is one of six restaurants in the tiny mall with a 7-Eleven sitting on one end. That’s not all, Professor Cowen said: “There are six more in the back. I’ve tried them all.” His point being, of course, that a restaurant facing competition has a better chance of being good.
这家餐馆名叫Eyo’s，离395州际公路不远，在埃塞俄比亚富人聚居的公寓大楼附近。它是这个小购物中心里的六家餐厅之一，购物中心的一端有一家7-11便利店。柯文说，还不止这些因素，“后面还有六家餐馆。每家我都尝过了”。他的意思显然是，需要竞争的餐馆才更有可能好吃。
It’s a sports bar, which seems like an unlikely choice, but not to Professor Cowen’s way of thinking. He chose it precisely because it was an unlikely choice. An American sports bar might mean Buffalo wings and cheeseburgers, but an Ethiopian sports bar? “They are making no attempt to appeal to non-Ethiopians,” he said.
它是个体育酒吧，这似乎是个不可思议的选择，但是柯文可不这么认为。他选择它正是因为它是个不可思议的选择。一个美国体育酒吧可能提供的是布法罗辣鸡翅和奶酪汉堡，但是一个埃塞俄比亚体育酒吧呢？“他们绝对没想要吸引非埃塞俄比亚人，”他说。
How does he know it is good? Ethiopians eat there. It’s crowded. People look prosperous. But the two-page menu offers more clues. A few American items are tucked down in a corner, but other than that it is all Ethiopian. It has Ethiopian breakfast items. The descriptions are sparse, because why would they need explaining to its core audience? There are dishes on the menu that he doesn’t recognize. “That’s always a good sign,” he said.
他怎么知道这家餐馆好吃呢？因为埃塞俄比亚人在这里用餐。人很多，看起来都很富裕的样子。仅有两页的菜单让我们知道了更多原因。几道美国菜挤在一个角落里，剩下的全是埃塞俄比亚菜。还列有埃塞俄比亚早餐。菜品的介绍很简单，因为他们根本不需要跟核心顾客解释什么。上面有些菜他根本不知道是什么。“那永远是个好兆头，”他说。
Professor Cowen is a big believer in random ordering as a strategy. “You increase the chances you’ll find something really special,” he said. Of course he ordered doro wot, the Ethiopian national dish, but also chose awaze tibs, a special kitfo and a vegetarian combo. The food took a while to come out of the kitchen, which Professor Cowen sees as a good sign, too; it was not sitting under a heat lamp or zapped in a microwave.
柯文坚信随机点菜是个好办法。“这样能增加你点到真正特别的菜的几率，”他说。当然他点了埃塞俄比亚国菜doro wot，但是也点了awaze tibs，它是一种特殊的牛肉沫，还点了一个蔬菜什锦。等了一会儿食物才从厨房端出来，柯文认为那也是个好兆头，说明那些菜不是提前做好了放在加热灯下保温，也不是在微波炉里加热一下就端上来的。
While we waited, Professor Cowen talked a little about obesity and health, the bigger issues he takes on in his book, at times sounding like Michael Pollan. He suggests people shop in Asian supermarkets. The greens are a loss leader there, he said, like milk at Safeway, and so are cheap, even as they are varied and of high quality.
我们等菜的时候，柯文谈到了超重和健康，那是他的书里更大的主题，他有时听起来像迈克尔·波伦(Michael Pollan)。他建议人们去亚洲超市购物。他说，在那里，绿色蔬菜是为招揽顾客而削本出售的商品，就像西弗韦(Safeway)超市削本出售牛奶一样，种类多样、质量很好，但是很便宜。
He is a bit of a locavore, determining that local food tastes better. His book has a chapter on the difference between Mexican food in El Paso, Tex., and across the river in Ciudad Juárez. (The hogs are fed scraps on the Mexican side so the lard used in cooking has better flavor, he explains.)
他也差不多算是个土食者，坚信当地食物更美味。他的书里有一章说的是德克萨斯州厄尔巴索市的墨西哥食物与河对岸华雷斯城食物的区别（他解释说，墨西哥那边的猪吃的是残羹剩饭，所以烹饪用的猪油更美味）。
But he is troubled by locavores who insist that they will eat only food that is trucked in from local farms. “The environmental fetishism of the locavore is misplaced,” he said. “Food snobbery is pessimistic, paternalistic and most of all it is anti-innovation,” he writes in his book. As far as carbon footprints go, he said, the local farmer’s truck can use far more energy per pound of produce than the ship bringing in food from overseas. “To me, it is a sign of how much of the debate is about image.”
但是他不赞成那些坚持只吃用卡车从当地农场运来的食物的土食者。他说，“土食者对环保的迷恋用错地方了”。他在书中写道，“食物歧视是悲观的、家长式的作风，最重要的是它反对创新。”他说，至于碳排放，当地农民的卡车在平均每磅食物上消耗掉的能源比用轮船从海外运来食物还要高。“在我看来，这说明有很多争论是形象问题。”
Professor Cowen places some of the blame for the Dark Age of American food through most of the 20th century on Prohibition. Before the 18th Amendment banned the sale of alcohol, he said, restaurant meals in America were better because the cost of alcohol helped subsidize the food. Restaurants that survived Prohibition were better at bribery and making connections than at cooking, he said. Cheap food, and restaurants that catered to children, prospered.
柯文认为，占据20世纪大部分时间的美国食物黑暗时期部分归咎于禁酒令。他说，在第18号修正案禁止销售酒精之前，美国餐馆的食物更好，因为酒精的低成本可以补贴食物的成本。那些在禁酒令时期生存下来的餐馆更善于行贿和拉关系，而不是烹饪。廉价食物以及迎合孩子的餐馆因此兴旺。
He reserves his harshest comments for the damage children have done to American food. He says the exalted status children have had in dictating our food choices since the 1950s is one reason so much food is bland and not very nutritious.
他把最尖锐的批评留给了孩子们对美国食物造成的破坏。他说20世纪50年代起，孩子们在决定我们食物选择方面的地位的提升，是出现这么多乏味且没有营养的食物的其中一个原因。
He said he never preached to his daughter about eating what he ate or cooked. With the confidence of an economist who believes in market incentives with all his being, he figured that if it tasted good, she would eat it.
他说自己从不强求女儿吃他吃的或者他做的食物。作为一个笃信市场刺激的经济学家，他发现，如果食物好吃，女儿自然会吃。
As for the food at Eyo’s Sports Bar, it persuaded me on his thesis that immigrants rejuvenated the American palate and it was best to leave the finicky children, or teenagers, at home.
至于Eyo’s体育酒吧的食物，它让我相信了他书中的论点：移民们唤醒了美国人的味觉，另外最好把挑剔的孩子或十几岁的孩子留在家里。