Tobacco companies are pushing back against a worldwide rise in antismoking laws, using a little-noticed legal strategy to delay or block regulation. The industry is warning countries that their tobacco laws violate an expanding web of trade and investment treaties, raising the prospect of costly, prolonged legal battles, health advocates and officials said.
烟草企业正竭力对抗世界范围内禁烟法规的兴起，采用一种鲜有人关注的法律策略来拖延或阻挠法规出台。健康倡导人士与官员称，烟草业警告一些国家，它们的烟草法规违反了日益增多的贸易与投资协定，并越来越可能面临旷日持久、耗资巨大的法律战。
The strategy has gained momentum in recent years as smoking rates in rich countries have fallen and tobacco companies have sought to maintain access to fast-growing markets in developing countries. Industry officials say that there are only a few cases of active litigation, and that giving a legal opinion to governments is routine for major players whose interests will be affected.
随着富裕国家吸烟率下降，加上烟草企业试图维持发展中国家快速增长的市场的稳定，这种策略近年来势头强劲。行业高管称，只有少数几个主动诉讼的案例，而且给各国政府提供法律意见是利益攸关的大企业遵循的惯例。
But tobacco opponents say the strategy is intimidating low- and middle-income countries from tackling one of the gravest health threats facing them: smoking. They also say the legal tactics are undermining the world’s largest global public health treaty, the W.H.O. Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which aims to reduce smoking by encouraging limits on advertising, packaging and sale of tobacco products. More than 170 countries have signed it since it took effect in 2005.
不过，反烟人士表示，这一策略是为了恐吓中低收入国家，让它们不去应对它们面临的最为严重的健康威胁：吸烟。他们还表示，相关法律策略正在损害世界上最大的全球性公共卫生条约——《世界卫生组织烟草控制框架公约》(W.H.O. Framework Convention on Tobacco Control)。该公约旨在减少吸烟现象，方法是鼓励对烟草制品的广告、包装和销售加以限制。公约于2005年生效，已有170多个国家签署。
Alarmed about rising smoking rates among young women, Namibia, in southern Africa, passed a tobacco control law in 2010 but quickly found itself bombarded with stern warnings from the tobacco industry that the new statute violated the country’s obligations under trade treaties.
警醒于年轻女性吸烟率的上升，非洲南部国家纳米比亚2010年通过了一部控烟法案，但很快就发现自己遭受了烟草业连珠炮似的严厉警告，称这部新法令违反了贸易协议，并导致该国没有承担相应义务。
“We have bundles and bundles of letters from them,” said Namibia’s health minister, Dr. Richard Kamwi.
“我们收到了它们大捆大捆的信件，”纳米比亚卫生部长理查德·卡姆维(Richard Kamwi)博士说。
Three years later, the government, fearful of a punishingly expensive legal battle, has yet to carry out a single major provision of the law, like limiting advertising or placing large health warnings on cigarette packaging.
三年过去了，由于害怕面对昂贵的法律持久战，该国政府仍未执行法案中的任何重要条款，比如限制广告，或是在香烟包装上标识健康警告。
The issue is particularly urgent now as the United States completes talks on a major new trade treaty with 11 Pacific Rim countries that aims to be a model for the rules of international commerce. 
随着美国与11个环太平洋国家就一项新的重大贸易协定进行的谈判进入收官阶段，这一问题如今变得尤为紧迫。该协议意在成为国际商务准则的典范。
Tobacco consumption more than doubled in the developing world between 1970 and 2000, according to the United Nations. Much of the increase was in China, but there has also been substantial growth in Africa, where smoking rates have traditionally been low. More than three-quarters of the world’s smokers now live in the developing world.
联合国的数据显示，1970年到2000年间，发展中国家的烟草消费量增长了一倍多。其中多数来自中国，不过在传统上吸烟率较低的非洲，增长也很可观。现如今，世界上超过四分之三的烟民生活在发展中国家。
Dr. Margaret Chan, director general of the W.H.O., said in a speech last year that legal actions against Uruguay, Norway and Australia were “deliberately designed to instill fear” in countries trying to reduce smoking.
世卫组织总干事陈冯富珍博士(Margaret Chan)在去年的一次演讲中表示，针对乌拉圭、挪威和澳大利亚的法律诉讼，是“蓄意行为，目的是恐吓”希望采用控烟措施的国家。
“The wolf is no longer in sheep’s clothing, and its teeth are bared,” she said.
“这只狼不再披着羊皮，它已张开血盆大口，”她说。
Tobacco companies are objecting to laws in both developed and developing nations. Industry officials say they respect countries’ efforts to protect public health, but face difficulties promoting their brands as more countries ban cigarette ads. Often, the only space left is the packaging, and even that is shrinking, with some countries requiring packages be plastered with shocking pictures of people with cancer; in Australia, brand names are reduced to uniform block letters on drab olive backgrounds.
不论是发达国家的法律，还是发展中国家的法律，烟草公司都反对。行业高管说，他们尊重国家保护公众健康的努力，但随着越来越多的国家禁止香烟广告，他们在宣传自己的香烟品牌时遇到了困难。通常情况下，唯一剩下的宣传空间就是包装盒，但是这个空间也在萎缩，因为一些国家要求在包装上印制触目惊心的癌症患者照片；在澳大利亚，香烟品牌名称只能用统一的粗体字母印在单调的橄榄绿背景中。
“Removing our trademarks removes our assurance to customers of the origin and quality of our lawfully available products, meaning they and their characteristics become indistinguishable from those of our competitors,” said Gareth Cooper, group head of regulation at British American Tobacco.
“抹去我们的商标，就抹去了我们的合法产品在原产地和质量方面对顾客的保证，这意味着我们有别于​​竞争对手的产品及其特性变得模糊且难以区分了。”英美烟草集团(British American Tobacco)的监管事务负责人加雷思·库珀(Gareth Cooper)说。
In the early 1990s, the American government used to pressure countries to open their markets to American tobacco companies. As smoking rates in some of these countries rose, outrage grew, and President Bill Clinton issued an executive order in 2001 that banned the United States government from lobbying on the industry’s behalf.
在20世纪90年代初，美国政府曾经对一些国家施加压力，让它们对美国的烟草公司开放市场。随着一些国家的吸烟率出现上升，人们变得愈发愤怒。2001年，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统颁布了一道行政命令，禁止政府部门为烟草行业进行游说。
But other types of trade agreements have emerged that give companies rights.
但是，其他类型的贸易协定出现了，赋予了烟草公司多种权利。
Such treaties are intended to promote prosperity by reducing trade barriers and protecting investors from expropriation by foreign governments. They allow companies to sue directly, instead of having to persuade a state to take up their case. They have proliferated since the 1990s, and number around 3,000, up from a few hundred in the late 1980s, according to Robert Stumberg, a law professor at the Harrison Institute for Public Law at Georgetown University, whose clients include antismoking groups.
这些协定旨在通过减少贸易壁垒、保护投资者的资产不被外国政府没收，来促进贸易繁荣。它们允许企业直接起诉，而不必让国家来代替企业提出案件。乔治城大学哈里森公法研究所(Harrison Institute for Public Law at Georgetown University)的法学教授罗伯特·斯顿伯格(Robert Stumberg)称，自20世纪90年代起，这类协定的数量出现激增，从80年代后期的几百个增加到3000左右。他的客户中就有一些反烟团体。
In Africa, at least four countries — Namibia, Gabon, Togo and Uganda — have received warnings from the tobacco industry that their laws run afoul of international treaties, said Patricia Lambert, director of the international legal consortium at the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids.
无烟草青少年运动(Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids)的国际法律协会主任帕特里夏·兰伯特(Patricia Lambert)表示，在非洲，至少有四个国家——纳米比亚、加蓬、多哥和乌干达——已经收到烟草公司的警告，称这些国家的法律与国际条约相抵触。
“They’re trying to intimidate everybody,” said Jonathan Liberman, director of the McCabe Center for Law and Cancer in Australia, which gives legal support to countries that have been challenged by tobacco companies. In Namibia, the tobacco industry has said that requiring large warning labels on cigarette packages violates its intellectual property rights and could fuel counterfeiting.
“他们试图恐吓大家，”澳大利亚麦凯布法律与癌症中心(McCabe Center for Law and Cancer)主任乔纳森·利伯曼(Jonathan Liberman)说。该中心为遭受烟草公司控告的国家提供法律支持。在纳米比亚，烟草公司表示，在卷烟包装上印制大幅警告标识的要求侵犯了其知识产权，并可能助长造假行为。
Mr. Cooper, of British American Tobacco, whose local affiliate sent the government a legal opinion, said in an email that countries should “consider the broader context of implementing regulations that can impact trade.”
英美烟草在纳米比亚的子公司向该国政府发出了法律意见书。总公司的库珀在一封电子邮件中表示，各国应该“考虑实施有些法规可能影响贸易的大局。”
Thomas Bollyky, a trade lawyer and a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said many developing countries are at a disadvantage in investment cases because they do not have the specialized legal expertise or resources to fight.
贸易律师托马斯·布利基(Thomas Bollyky)是美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)的一名研究员。他说，很多发展中国家在投资案件中处于不利地位，因为它们不具备专门的法律知识或资源来进行诉讼。
Uruguay has acknowledged that it would have had to drop its tobacco control law and settle with Philip Morris International if the foundation of the departing mayor of New York, Michael R. Bloomberg, had not paid to defend the law. (The company’s net revenue last year was $77 billion, substantially more than Uruguay’s gross domestic product.) Even developed countries like Canada and New Zealand have backed away from planned tobacco laws in the face of investment treaty claims, Mr. Bollyky said.
乌拉圭已经承认，如果行将卸任的纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的基金会没有出资捍卫控烟法案，该国可能已放弃该法律，并与菲利普莫里斯国际集团公司（Philip Morris International，简称菲莫国际)和解。（该公司去年的净收入为770亿美元[约合4680亿元人民币]，远远超过乌拉圭的国内生产总值）。布利基表示，就连加拿大、新西兰等发达国家在面对投资协定的要求时，都放弃了实施控烟法律的计划。
The most closely watched legal battle is playing out in Australia, where the tobacco industry lost a case in domestic courts last year. Philip Morris International has filed suit under an investment treaty between Australia and Hong Kong, where the firm has a branch. The proceedings, which are not public, will be held in Singapore and decided by outside arbitrators, not judges.
最受关注的法律之争正在澳大利亚上演。该国的烟草行业去年在国内法院败诉。菲莫国际已经根据澳大利亚和香港签订的投资协定提起诉讼，该公司在香港拥有一家分公司。该案将在新加坡审理，并且不对外公开。案件最终将由外部仲裁员，而不是法官裁定。
Philip Morris International has dozens of subsidiaries, allowing the company “to play the treaty game much more adroitly,” Mr. Stumberg said.
斯顿伯格表示，菲莫国际拥有数十家分公司，因此该公司能够“更巧妙地玩这个协定游戏”。
Companies are even paying for countries to make the industry’s case against other nations in the World Trade Organization. Ukraine filed a complaint with the organization against Australia’s packaging rule, even though the two countries barely trade. Mr. Cooper acknowledged that his company was helping Ukraine pay the legal bills, but said that was standard practice in W.T.O. disputes.
有些公司甚至向某些国家付钱，让它们在世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)就烟草行业的案件向其他国家提起申诉。乌克兰向世贸组织提出投诉，反对澳大利亚的包装规定，尽管这两个国家没什么贸易往来。库珀承认，他的公司正在帮乌克兰支付法律费用，但他表示这是世贸组织贸易争端中的标准做法。
Bashupi Maloboka, a Health Ministry official who steered the tobacco control law to passage in Namibia, said the industry’s approach had slowed what was already a plodding process.
引导纳米比亚通过控烟法案的卫生部官员巴舒培·马洛波卡(Bashupi Maloboka)表示，烟草行业的做法已经延缓了本来就十分缓慢的立法过程。
“The fear is that they have the money and they have the resources, so they can pay for anything,” said Mr. Maloboka, who retired last year.
去年退休的马洛波卡表示，“令人担心的是，他们有钱有资源，他们就能用钱买到任何东西。”
But Dr. Kamwi, the health minister, said he hoped the regulations to put the 2010 law into practice would be finished next year. “We have decided to put our foot down,” he said. “If they want to go to court, we will see them there.”
但卫生部长卡姆维博士表示，他希望推动2010年法律得以实施的规定将于明年完成。“我们已经决定采取坚定立场，”他说。“如果他们想要去法院，那我们就在那儿见吧。”