LONDON – Candy Crush is coming to China.
伦敦——《糖果粉碎传奇》(Candy Crush)即将登陆中国。
That’s the deal King Digital Entertainment, the maker of the popular game franchise, announced on Wednesday after it struck an agreement with the Chinese Internet giant, Tencent.
这款大热游戏系列的开发商国王数码娱乐公司(King Digital Entertainment)周三宣布，已与中国互联网巨头腾讯达成协议，促成了此事。
The push into China follows the lackluster performance of King’s stock since the company’s initial public offering last month, which valued King at more than $7 billion. The company’s shares have lost 23 percent of their value, in large part because investors are concerned about about King’s reliance on its Candy Crush franchise, which generates around 80 percent of the company’s revenue.
进军中国之前，国王数码于上月进行了首次公开募股，使其市值超过了70亿美元（约合440亿元人民币）。不过，其股票此后的表现颇为疲软，股价已下挫了23%，很大一部分原因是，投资者担心公司对“糖果粉碎”系列的依赖。国王数码大致有80%的营收来自这款产品。
By expanding into China, the company is trying to benefit from Tencent’s reach across a country where people are increasingly using their smartphones to surf the Internet. It also helps King, which is based in Europe, to diversify beyond its current main markets of Western Europe and the United States.
通过扩张至中国市场，国王数码试图从腾讯覆盖全中国的触角中获益。在中国，人们越来越多地在使用智能手机上网。对于总部位于欧洲的国王数码，此举也有助于公司涉足西欧和美国主市场之外的地方。
The deal will piggyback on Tencent’s existing presence in the world’s second largest economy.
这项协议还将巩固腾讯在世界第二大经济体中已取得的地位。
Tencent, one of China’s biggest technology companies, owns the Chinese Internet messaging application WeChat, which is similar to WhatsApp, the American rival that was bought by Facebook for up to $19 billion.
腾讯是中国最大的科技企业之一，旗下拥有互联网通讯应用“微信”。这款应用类似于其美国竞争对手WhatsApp，后者已被Facebook以高达190亿美元的价格收购。
WeChat currently has more than 200 million users, mostly in China, and the addition of King’s game franchises to Tencent’s existing offerings could help attract more of China’s 500 million mobile Internet users to the local tech giant.
微信目前拥有逾2亿用户，多数在中国。将国王数码的游戏系列增加到腾讯现有的产品中，或许有利于将中国5亿移动互联网用户中更多的人吸引到这家本土科技巨头身边。
“Tencent has the largest mobile social network in China and is a great partner to work with,” King’s chief executive, Riccardo Zacconi, said in a statement on Wednesday.
“腾讯拥有中国最大的移动社交网络，是出色的合作伙伴，”国王数码的首席执行官里卡尔多·扎科尼(Riccardo Zacconi)在周三的声明中表示。