Donald Trump is not sleeping much these days.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)这些天没睡多少觉。
Aboard his gold-plated jumbo jet, the Republican presidential nominee does not like to rest or be alone with his thoughts, insisting that aides stay up and keep talking to him. He prefers the soothing, whispery voice of his son-in-law.
在带有镀金装饰的大型喷气式私人飞机上，这位共和党总统提名人不愿休息或者独自沉思，而是坚持要求助手们熬夜陪他说话。他最喜欢的是自家女婿舒缓的、耳语般的声音。
He requires constant assurance that his candidacy is on track. “Look at that crowd!” he exclaimed a few days ago as he flew across Florida, turning to his young press secretary as a TV tuned to Fox News showed images of what he claimed were thousands of people waiting for him on the ground below.
他要不停地得到保证：他的候选人地位没有出任何差池。“看看那人群！”几天前，飞机在佛罗里达州上空飞行之际，看到被调至福克斯新闻台(Fox News)的电视上出现了数千人在下方地面上等待他的画面，他扭头对年轻的新闻秘书大声说道。
And he is struggling to suppress his bottomless need for attention. As he stood next to the breakfast buffet at his golf club in Doral, Florida, eyeing a tray of pork sausages, he sought to convey restraint when approached by a reporter for The New York Times.
与此同时，他难以抑制对外界关注的无尽渴求。在其佛罗迪达州多拉尔的高尔夫俱乐部里，当他站在自助早餐旁盯着一托盘猪肉香肠的时候，《纽约时报》(The New York Times)的一名记者刚一靠近，他就竭力表现出颇为克制的样子。
“I’m on message,” Trump asserted, with effort. “I’m not playing around. In fact, I’m a little nervous standing here talking to you even for just a minute.”
“我不能偏离宣传口径，”特朗普吃力地宣称。“我不是在开玩笑。事实上，即便只是站在这里跟你说上一分钟，我也有点儿紧张。”
But moments later, his resolve had collapsed. He allowed the same reporter onto his plane for a flight from Miami to Jacksonville, Florida.
但片刻之后，他的决心便土崩瓦解。他允许这位记者登上飞机，和他一起从迈阿密飞往佛罗里达州的杰克逊维尔市。
In the final days of the presidential campaign, Trump’s candidacy is a jarring split screen: the choreographed show of calm and confidence orchestrated by his staff, and the neediness and vulnerability of a once-boastful candidate now uncertain of victory.
在总统选举的最后几天里，特朗普的竞选情况出现了诡异的分裂：一边是在幕僚策划之下所刻意展现出来的平静和自信，一边是一位曾经夸下海口，但现在却不确定能否取得胜利的候选人所流露出来的困窘和脆弱。
On the surface, there is the semblance of stability that is robbing Hillary Clinton of her most potent weapon: Trump’s self-sabotaging eruptions, which have repeatedly undermined his candidacy. Underneath that veneer, turbulence still reigns, making it difficult for him to overcome all of the obstacles blocking his path to the White House.
从表面上看，有一种流于表象的稳定，让希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)失去了最有力的武器——也就是特朗普时不时就会突然做出的自毁前程的爆发，此类举动已经让其竞选之路多次受到打击。在表象之下，混乱依然居于主导地位，加大了他在跨越通往白宫之路上的重重障碍时面临的困难。
The contrasts pervade his campaign. Aides to Trump have finally wrested away the Twitter account that he used to colorfully — and often counterproductively — savage his rivals. But offline, Trump still privately muses about all of the ways he will punish his enemies after Election Day, including a threat to fund a super PAC with vengeance as its core mission.
这种反差在他的竞选活动中随处可见。特朗普的助手们最终夺走了他用来花样百出地——而且常常是适得其反地——猛烈抨击对手的Twitter账号。但在线下，特朗普私下里依然会叨唠他在大选日之后惩罚敌人的所有法子，其中包括扬言创办一个以复仇为核心使命的超级政治行动委员会。
His polished older daughter, Ivanka, sat for a commercial intended to appeal to suburban women who have recoiled from her father’s incendiary language. But she discouraged the campaign from promoting the ad in news releases, fearing that her high-profile association with the campaign would damage the businesses that bear her name.
他那言行得体的长女伊万卡(Ivanka)曾出现在一支广告中，目的是吸引对他父亲的煽动性言论心生畏惧的市郊女性。但她不愿让竞选团队在新闻发布中推介这支广告，因为担心如果和竞选活动建立过于引人瞩目的联系，会损害到以她的名字为品牌的业务。
Trump’s campaign is no longer making headlines with embarrassing staff shake-ups. But that has left him with a band of squabbling and unfireable advisers, with confusing roles and an inability to sign off on basic tasks. A plan to encourage early voting in Florida went unapproved for weeks.
特朗普的竞选团队不再因为尴尬的人事动荡而登上新闻头条。但这让他只剩下一群争吵不休、不能被解雇的顾问，这些人的角色相当混乱，他们甚至无法拿出最基本的工作方案。一个鼓励弗罗里达州选民提前投票的方案，拖了好几个星期都没得到批准。
The result is chaotic. Advisers cut loose from the campaign months ago, like Corey Lewandowski, still talk to the candidate frequently, offering advice that sometimes clashes with that of the current leadership team. Trump, who does not use a computer, rails against the campaign’s expenditure of tens of millions of dollars on digital ads, skeptical that spots he never sees could have any effect.
结果便是乱象丛生。科里·勒万多斯基(Corey Lewandowski)等数月前便已被清理出竞选团队的顾问，仍在和这位候选人频繁交谈，他们为他提供的建议有时会和当前领导团队的建议相左。不用电脑的特朗普反对竞选团队斥资数千万美元做数字广告的提议，他从来也没看到过相关的广告位，怀疑它们起不了什么作用。
Not even staff members who volunteer to be dismissed are let go. The senior communications adviser, Jason Miller, offered to resign after he was spotted at a Las Vegas strip club the night before the final presidential debate. The offer was rejected.
甚至连自愿离职的幕僚也不得离开。第三场总统竞选辩论前夜，有人看到高级公关顾问贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)出现在拉斯维加斯的一个脱衣舞俱乐部，他随后递交了辞呈。结果被拒。
This inside account of the Trump campaign’s final stretch is based on interviews with dozens of aides, operatives, supporters and advisers, many of whom were granted anonymity to describe moments and conversations that were intended to be confidential.
对特朗普竞选活动收尾阶段内情的相关描述，是在采访了数十名助手、工作人员、支持者和顾问的基础上做出的，他们中的很多人都谈及了一些本该属于私密的时刻和对话，因此要求匿名。
Hope Hicks, Trump’s spokeswoman, said the campaign was on course and gaining ground. She firmly rejected suggestions that advisers were clashing, and said voters were responding to Trump’s message.
特朗普的发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)说，竞选活动一切如常，颇有斩获。她斩钉截铁地驳斥了顾问之间存在冲突的说法，还说选民们正对特朗普传递的信息作出反应。
Hicks denied that Ivanka Trump had misgivings about promoting the ad in which she appeared. “That’s simply not true,” Hicks said. “Ivanka is totally supportive.”
她否认伊万卡·特朗普对自己现身其中的那支广告的推介事宜心存疑虑。“这绝不是事实。”希克斯说。“伊万卡完全持支持态度。”
Highs and Lows, Up Close
起起伏伏，近在眼前
The closing phase of Donald Trump’s campaign has been punctuated by swaying poll numbers and dizzying mood swings. It started Oct. 7 with the explosive release of a recording in which Trump was caught bragging about forcibly kissing women and grabbing their genitals.
在特朗普竞选活动的收尾阶段，民调数据不断波动，选民情绪也常常出现令人眼花缭乱的摇摆。事情始于10月7日，那天曝光的一段具有轰动效应的视频，录下了特朗普就其强吻女性和抓女性下体的经历大肆吹嘘的情形。
Many Republicans decided that Trump’s already shaky campaign was over. Some despondent young staff members at the Republican National Committee on Capitol Hill, who usually work late into the night in the final stretches of a campaign, took to leaving their desks early, in time for happy hour at nearby bars. They complained that Trump had not just lost the election but was dragging down House and Senate candidates, dooming the entire party.
许多共和党人认为，特朗普的这场本就显出了颓势的竞选算是走到了尽头。在一场选举的收尾阶段，共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)的年轻工作人员常常会在国会山忙到深夜，但当天，这些沮丧的年轻人早早地离开了办公室，只是为了赶上附近酒吧的欢乐时光。他们抱怨说，特朗普不仅输掉了这场选举，还拖累了竞选参议两院议员席位的候选人，断送了整个政党的前途。
Trump’s aides were just as thrown by the tape. But they saw a chance to salvage his candidacy — on a Civil War battlefield.
那段视频同样让特朗普的助手们很是为难。但他们看到了在南北战争的一个古战场上拯救其候选人地位的机会。
His aides outlined 15 bullet points for him to deliver during an Oct. 22 speech in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, to focus voters on a new theme of cleaning up government, even as several women came forward to accuse him of groping them just as he had described in the recording.
助手们列出了15个要点，让他用于将在宾夕法尼亚州葛底斯堡市发表的演讲中，以便引导选民把关注点放在清理政府机构这一新议题上，尽管有好几名女性当时都站了出来，指控他曾像在视频中所描述的那样，对她们动手动脚。
But Trump grew frustrated with the instructions. By the time he was done revising the proposed speech, only about a half-dozen of the original suggestions remained. And over the firm objections of his top advisers, he insisted on using the occasion to issue a remarkable threat: that he would sue all of the women who had gone public with the accusations.
但特朗普对相关指导感到不满。等到他修改拟议中的演讲稿的时候，最初的建议只有五六条被保留了下来。他还不顾高级顾问的坚决反对，坚持要借演讲之机发出赤裸裸的威胁：将起诉所有公开指控他的女性。
As the advisers begged him to reconsider — it would make him seem small, they warned, and undermine a pivotal speech — Trump was adamant. There had to be a severe penalty for those who dared to attack him, he said. He could not just sit back and let these women “come at me,” he told one of them.
顾问们请求他三思而后行——他们警告说，这会显得他气量狭小，还会破坏一场举足轻重的演讲——但特朗普心意已决。他说，胆敢攻击他的人必须受到严厉的惩罚。他不能坐视不理，让这些女人“冲他发难”，他告诉一名顾问。
The speech was roundly criticized and seemed strikingly out of place on such sacred and historic ground. “The Grievanceburg Address,” one journalist deemed it.
这场演讲受到了各方的严厉批评，而且和葛底斯堡这样一个历史圣地并不搭调。一名记者称之为“不满斯堡演讲”(Grievanceburg Address)。
An Injection of Hope
注入希望
Then came an astonishing development. On Oct. 28, the director of the FBI, James B. Comey, announced that his agency would review newly discovered emails potentially pertinent to its investigation of Clinton’s private server.
接着，局面出现了令人震惊的转折。10月28日，联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)宣布，FBI将审查新发现的一批可能与该机构对克林顿私人服务器的调查有关的电子邮件。
On an afternoon flight to New Hampshire, Trump and his aides saw the news splash across the giant flat-screen television on his plane.
飞往新罕布什尔州的一个午后，特朗普和助手们在他那架飞机配备的巨大平板电视上看到了相关消息。
Trump was unsure how to respond.
特朗普不确定该如何回应。
“What do you think this means?” he asked the small circle traveling with him — Stephen K. Bannon, his campaign’s chief executive; Stephen Miller, his senior policy adviser; and Lewandowski, his former campaign manager, who lives in New Hampshire.
“你们觉得这意味着什么？”他问与其一起出行的小圈子里的人——史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)，竞选团队的首席执行官；史蒂芬·米勒(Stephen Miller)，高级政策顾问；以及勒万多斯基，居住在新罕布什尔州的前竞选经理。
To the assembled men sitting in white leather seats, the answer was simple: It could turn the election around.
对这群坐在白色皮面座椅里的男人而言，答案很简单：它可能会让选举翻盘。
But they insisted that to truly exploit it, Trump needed to do something he had been incapable of in the past: strictly follow instructions, let a story unfold on its own and resist the urge to endlessly bludgeon his rival.
但他们坚称，为了真正利用好这个机会，特朗普要做他以前无法做到的事情：严格遵循指导，让这个事件自行展开，抑制无休止地疯狂攻击对手的冲动。
Several advisers warned him that he risked becoming like a wild animal chasing its prey so zealously that it raced over a cliff — a reminder that he could pursue his grievances and his eagerness to fling insults, but that the cost would be a plunge into an electoral abyss.
几个顾问警告他，如果无法克制自己，他可能会变成一只过于狂热地追逐着猎物，以至于冲出悬崖的野兽——意思是提醒他，他尽可以被不满情绪牵着走，口出恶言，但很可能付出一头栽下竞选深渊的代价。
Taking away Twitter turned out to be an essential move by his press team, which deprived him of a previously unfiltered channel for his aggressions.
他的媒体事务团队收走了他的Twitter账号，事实证明这个招数很有效，他失去了以往用来发起攻击的一个无遮无拦的通道。
On Thursday, as his plane idled on the tarmac in Miami, Trump spotted Air Force One outside his window. As he glowered at the larger plane, he told Hicks, his spokeswoman, to jot down a proposed tweet about President Barack Obama, who was campaigning nearby for Clinton.
上周四，当特朗普的飞机在迈阿密的停机坪上停留时，他瞧见了窗外的空军一号(Air Force One)。他一边怒视那架更大的飞机，一边让发言人希克斯记下一条与贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统有关的Twitter帖子。后者当时正在附近为克林顿拉票。
“Why is he campaigning instead of creating jobs and fixing Obamacare?” Trump said. “Get back to work.” After some light editing — Hicks added “for the American people” at the end — she published it.
“他为什么要在这儿参加竞选活动，而不是去创造工作岗位、修正奥巴马医疗法案(Obamacare)？”特朗普说。“回去工作吧。”稍微编辑了一下以后——希克斯加上了“为了美国人民”——她把这条帖子发了出去。
‘I’m Going to Win’
“我就要赢了”
Trump still clings to certain prerogatives, such as personally approving every commercial before it reaches a TV screen. During a recent four-hour flight, Trump painstakingly reviewed a new batch of ads on an aide’s laptop and seized on the smallest details.
特朗普依然紧紧抓住某些特定的权力不放，譬如，每则广告出现在电视屏幕上之前，都要由他亲自拍板。在最近的一趟历时4个小时的飞行途中，特朗普不辞辛苦地对着一名助手的笔记本电脑审核一批新广告，连最微小的细节也不放过。
He objected to a short clip in one ad that showed him emerging from a hug with a female supporter, worrying that it made him seem dismissive rather than warm.
一则广告中的一个短短的片段显示，他正在结束对一位女性支持者的拥抱。他就此提出了异议，因为担心这会显得他有轻慢之意，而非待人热情。
“It looks like I’m repelling away,” Trump complained. The ad was fixed.
“看上去就好像我在排斥别人，”特朗普抱怨道。这则广告后来得到了修改。
Overall, though, he seemed pleased by the results, as polls started to tighten and his news media coverage changed. Aboard his plane on Thursday, he seemed struck by an unfamiliar trend: News stories emphasized the intended message of his campaign rallies, not his improvised rants or stray tweets.
不过，总体而言，他似乎对结果很满意，因为和对手的民调支持率开始变得接近了，而且媒体对他的报道也出现了变化。上周四待在飞机上时，他似乎震惊于一个不同寻常的趋势：媒体报道着重强调了他在竞选集会上刻意传递的信息，而非他口中即兴冒出的胡言乱语，或是不着调的Twitter帖子。
“All my quotes are coming from my speeches,” he said. “And that’s a good thing.”
“所有引语都来自我的演讲，”他说。“这是一件好事。”
Of course, a few days of good behavior cannot erase 16 months of erratic conduct, and aides acknowledge that their efforts to steer a straight course could falter.
当然了，短短几天的良好表现无法抵消16个月里的古怪行径。助手们也承认，他们推动他走上正轨的努力有可能会出现跌跌撞撞的时候。
Back on his plane, heading into the campaign’s final weekend, Trump reclined in his leather chair and refused to entertain any suggestions that his unorthodox, unpredictable and now uncertain campaign for the presidency would end in defeat.
当他们进入了大选前最后一个周末的时候，特朗普斜倚在飞机后面的皮面座椅里，拒绝接受他这场不拘一格、难以预测、目前充满不确定性的总统竞选会以失败告终的任何暗示。
“I’m going to win,” he said.
“我会赢的，”他说。