As a young boy, Scott Stossel, the editor of The Atlantic magazine, worried every time his parents left: They’d die, he would think, or else abandon him. Years later, wild with stage fright, he hid in a bathroom to avoid getting a trophy on the dais. By adulthood, Stossel was saddled with often incapacitating nerves. His new book, “My Age of Anxiety,” uses his experience as a guide through the disorder, tracing its legacy in thought and culture. He seeks to understand what anxiety is and what it means; he probes the condition’s ambiguities. The result is ambitious, and bravely intimate: a ruminative book that often breaks into a thrilling intellectual chase.
《大西洋》月刊的编辑斯科特·施托塞尔(Scott Stossel)小时候时常担心父母会离他而去：死去或者抛弃他。多年后，因为极度怯场，他躲在卫生间里，不去台上领奖。成年后，施多塞尔经常受到难以自制的神经紧张的困扰。他的新书《我的焦虑岁月》(My Age of Anxiety)以自己的经历为线索，追溯焦虑症在思想和文化上的遗留问题。他努力去理解焦虑的定义和内涵，并探究这种病症的含糊之处。这本书规模宏大，且大胆地透露了很多隐私；它深思熟虑，时常把握住令人兴奋的知识性重大主题。
An estimated 40 million American adults have anxiety disorders in a given year, and one in four will suffer an anxiety disorder at some point in their lifetimes. Stossel shares a widely held suspicion that the true numbers are higher, since a lot of people press on without mentioning symptoms to doctors. (I’ve never sought or received an anxiety diagnosis; I’d also be entirely unsurprised to get one.) Trickier still, experts don’t agree on exactly what anxiety is. The most authoritative description, from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, has defined it as a six-month period of uncontrollable worry accompanied by three or more persistent problems: restlessness, fatigue, concentration issues, irritability, muscle tension or “sleep disturbance.” Clusters of these symptoms probably describe the entire city of New York.
每年约有4000万美国成年人患有焦虑症，四分之一的美国人在人生的某个时刻将会患上焦虑症。施托塞尔指出了人们普通持有的怀疑：真实的数字要更高，因为很多人选择忍受而不是告诉医生这些症状（我从未去诊断自己是否患有焦虑症，但是如果医生断定我患有焦虑症，我一点都不会感到意外）。更棘手的是，专家们对焦虑症的准确定义看法不一。来自《精神障碍诊断和统计手册》(Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders)的最权威的描述把焦虑症定义为持续六个月的无法控制的忧虑，并持续伴随以下症状中的三项或更多：焦躁，疲惫，注意力无法集中，易怒，肌肉紧张或“睡眠障碍”。所有这些症状也许可以用来描述整个纽约市的情况。
Does this mean that anxiety disorder is a chimera, invented by people trying to pathologize your quirks and mine? Stossel thinks not. Although anxiety has been called many things over the years — black bile to the ancient Greeks, neurasthenia to the Victorians — the problem is old. Stossel also has the proof of his experience. Today, his anxieties include claustrophobia, acrophobia, aerophobia and a mysterious fear of cheese. Also: panic attacks, a nervous stomach, stage fright. He has bolted in the middle of interviews and speaking gigs. He has soiled himself on airplanes. At the altar, preparing to take his wedding vows, he looked so fitful and intensely sweaty that the minister asked if he was O.K. He was and he wasn’t, as he fought the shaking of his limbs, “the urge to vomit, and unconsciousness.”
这是不是意味着焦虑症是一种妄想，是那些想把普通人的小怪癖说成病态的人编造出来的呢？施托塞尔不这么认为。虽然焦虑症在历史上有过各种名称——古希腊人说它是黑胆汁，维多利亚时代的人说它是神经衰弱症，但是这个毛病由来已久。施托塞尔还有自己的经历为证。现在他的焦虑症包括幽闭恐惧症、恐高症、高空恐惧症以及对奶酪的神秘恐惧。还有恐慌症、神经性胃炎和怯场。他在采访和现场演讲中突然跑开。在飞机上失禁。他在圣坛上准备说出结婚誓言时，气喘吁吁，大汗淋漓，牧师问他是不是病了。他没有生病，他也的确有病，因为他在努力控制四肢的抖动，控制自己“想呕吐和昏过去的欲望”。
True to the disorder, though, most of Stossel’s anxiousness anticipates what hasn’t occurred. A persistent problem is his emetophobia: the fear of vomiting. It governs his life, to the extent that he maintains a mental catalog of gastroenteritis outbreaks, carries stomach medication with him at all times and hoards airsick bags. He finds it hard to enjoy heightened social moments. (He pulled away from his first kiss because he felt sure he would throw up on the young woman in question.) Most people would find Stossel’s vigilance excessive, especially since, by his own admission, he hasn’t vomited since 1977. But these regurgitation-free decades only raise his guard. Californians will recognize his wary pessimism as earthquake thinking: a long hiatus means not safety but a crisis deferred.
不过与焦虑症的本质一致的是，施托塞尔焦虑的事大都没发生过。他一直有呕吐恐惧症。它控制了他的生活——他一直在惦记着肠胃炎发作，总是随身携带胃药和呕吐袋。他发现自己很难享受激动的社交时刻（初吻的时候他突然跑开，因为他强烈感觉自己会吐到那个年轻女子身上）。大多数人可能会觉得施托塞尔太过警惕，特别是他自己也承认，从1977年起他就没呕吐过。但是几十年没呕吐只会让他更警惕。加利福尼亚州的人会发现他的警惕悲观主义与人们对地震的恐惧是一样的：长时间没有发作不意味着安全，而是意味着迟到的危机。
The mutinies of nature — often of the body — scare him most. Stossel’s current therapist suggests that reflexes like vomiting foreshadow the ultimate corporeal letting go: death. (And who wants that?) But Stossel also traces the idea, appearing often and across disciplines, that anxiety is essentially a consequence of modern life. We’re not made for this sort of thing, the thinking goes. And because our animal nature can’t find comfort in today’s demands, we’re constantly on edge — which makes bodies like Stossel’s protest all the more.
本能的反叛——主要是身体的反叛——最让他恐惧。施托塞尔目前的治疗师认为像呕吐这样的条件反射暗示着肉体的最终消散：死亡（谁会想死啊？）。但是施托塞尔也追溯了一个在各个学科中经常出现的观点：焦虑从本质上讲是现代生活的产物。那种观点认为，我们天生不适合这种生活。因为我们的动物本性在现代生活的高要求中无所适从，我们一直处于紧张状态，这让施托塞尔这样的身体更加反叛。
The resulting situations might, elsewhere, make for fine farce. Stossel remembers a summer he spent with the Kennedys, in Hyannis Port, researching his first book, about Sargent Shriver. While he was out one afternoon, his nervous stomach stirred, and he could find no restroom. He ran back to the house, where he availed himself of the first free commode, in the Kennedys’ lower hall. He thought that all was well, until the toilet “exploded,” soaking the floor and his trousers with a rising tide of sewage. Stossel was in the midst of hiding his pants in a cupboard when the dinner bell rang: The illustrious guests were being summoned to a living room, directly opposite the bathroom door. He wrapped his lower half in a sewage-y towel and ran for it, nearly colliding with an “utterly unfazed” John F. Kennedy Jr.
这种结果在其他地方可能是好玩的闹剧。施托塞尔记得为了写他的第一本书——那本书是关于萨金特·施瑞弗尔(Sargent Shriver)的——他在海厄尼斯港和肯尼迪夫妇共度夏季。有一天下午在户外，他紧张的胃部开始翻搅，他找不到卫生间。他跑回房子，在肯尼迪家的一楼客厅找到了一个空闲的洗手间。他觉得一切还好，这时马桶突然“爆炸了”，涌上来的污水浸透了地板和他的裤子。施托塞尔正忙着把裤子藏进橱柜时，餐钟响了：这是在召唤显赫的客人们到卫生间正对着的那个客厅。他用溅有污物的毛巾把下半身裹起来，赶紧逃走，差点撞上“一点都不吃惊的”小约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy Jr.)。
One suspects this escapade reveals more about the goings-on in Camelot than about Stossel’s self-consciousness. But his hair-­trigger shame reflex fires indiscriminately. “That’s him,” he imagines people sneering. “The one who can’t control his own bodily functions.” Plaintive self-­flagellation is a refrain in “My Age of Anxiety” — and, alas, the book’s most tedious feature. In his fretting, Stossel sometimes overlooks the implications of his premise: If anxiety is a chemical disorder, then it shouldn’t require any more apology than an epileptic’s seizures.
人们会觉得这场闹剧主要是反映总统家里的状况，而不是施托塞尔的自我意识。但是他那敏感的羞耻感不分青红皂白地爆发了。“就是他，”他想象着人们在嘲笑他，“他就是那个无法控制自身机能的人。”悲哀的自我鞭挞在《我的焦虑岁月》中反复出现——哎，它是这本书最沉闷的特点。在焦虑中，施托塞尔有时忽略了他的假设所暗含的意思：如果焦虑是一种化学紊乱，那它就像癫痫病人痉挛发作一样，不需要道歉。
Or should it? “My Age of Anxiety” offers dazzlingly comprehensive taxonomies of anxiety-related theory, past and present, and in the process bears out Stossel’s wan ambivalence: Much of the research is notably inconclusive.
需要道歉吗？《我长久的焦虑》列出了各个学科过去和现在各种与焦虑有关的理论，令人眼花缭乱。在这个过程中证实了施托塞尔苍白的矛盾心理：很多研究都明显没有结论。
Data over decades have (­unfortunately) suggested a link between a mother’s behavior and a baby’s lifelong anxiety level. But it’s unclear whether that’s due to nurture or because anxious mothers pass on their dispositions genetically. And although research has found chemical sources of stress resilience (one is called neuropeptide Y; those rich in it seem immune to PTSD), lack of anxiety and heroism aren’t the same. Stossel discusses the basketball star Bill Russell, who seemed to thrive only as a nervous wreck. William James — all the Jameses, actually — ­fueled culture-changing work with powerful neuroses. Stossel barely notes it, but he himself leads a nationally scrutinized, occasionally provocative publication. Audacity and heroism rise from many sources.
几十年的数据（不幸地）暗示母亲的行为和婴儿终身的焦虑水平有关。但是不清楚是因为养育方式还是因为焦虑的母亲把自己的性情遗传给了孩子。虽然研究已经找到压力适应力的化学根源（其中一个根源叫神经肽Y；身体里富含神经肽Y的人好像不易患上创伤后应激障碍），但是不焦虑和英勇不是一回事。施托塞尔分析了篮球明星比尔·拉塞尔(Bill Russell)，他似乎只在极度紧张时表现神勇。威廉姆·詹姆斯(William James)——实际上还有许多姓詹姆斯的学者——提出强大的神经官能症理论，改变了文化的走向。施托塞尔几乎没提过自己的成绩，但是他本人领导着一本全国关注、偶尔引发争议的杂志。大胆和英勇的来源很多。
Which brings us to the drugs. With characteristic fair-mindedness, Stossel, who’s tried nearly everything (his current ­public-speaking preparations include Xanax, Inderal and vodka), presents opposing extremes: “cosmetic psychopharmacology” and “pharmacological Calvinism.” People leaning toward the first argue that anxiety is a correctable imbalance. Yet the data pool behind many drugs is less persuasive than consumers may think. (Anxiety medications appear to “work” less well in China.) Also, how not to quell tomorrow’s William James?
这就引出了药物问题。施托塞尔什么药都试过（他目前进行公开演讲时准备的药物有赞安诺[Xanax]、心得安[Inderal]和伏特加[vodka]）。他秉承一贯的公正态度，提出了相反的极端论点：“外表精神病药理学”和“药理学加尔文主义”。支持第一种观点的人认为焦虑是一种可以矫正的失衡。但是很多药物的作用的数据比消费者以为的要缺乏说服力（抗焦虑药似乎在中国不怎么“起作用”）。另外，我们如何才能不去压制未来的威廉·詹姆斯？
The trade-off is hazy. At a dinner party of artists and writers, Stossel found that “each of the other nine people within earshot” had been medicated for anxiety. These were not dysfunctional failures, he explains, but vaunted novelists and war correspondents. (The war correspondent was anxious not about the battlefield but about editors.) “Maybe,” Stossel gently speculates, “these stories simply provide evidence that writers are crazy.”
利弊权衡是模糊的。施托塞尔在一个艺术家和作家的宴会上发现“他耳朵能听见的其他九个人”都服用过抗焦虑药。他解释说，他们不是机能失调的失败者，而是饱受赞誉的小说家和战地记者（那位战地记者焦虑的不是战场，而是编辑）。“也许，”施托塞尔温和地推测，“这些故事只不过证明作家都是疯子。”
Maybe. Or maybe anxious temperaments aren’t the cut-and-dried impediments some would suppose. Stossel notes that people with manageable anxiety often do better work than their blithe, breezy counterparts; they’re long-thinking and less easily satisfied. The condition, at debilitating extremes, clearly requires treatment. Yet locating those extremes — when do the defining aspects of selfhood become its obstacle? — is harder, and Stossel shows we still can’t mark the line with any science. Must we? “I am living on the razor’s edge between success and failure, adulation and humiliation — between justifying my existence and revealing my unworthiness to be alive,” he writes. In his mind, the unsettledness is problematic. But to many people, anxious or not, it will sound like a state of grace.
也许吧。或者也许焦虑的性情不像有些人猜想的那样，是老生常谈的精神障碍。施托塞尔指出，有管理焦虑的人通常比那些无忧无虑、轻松愉快的管理者做得更好；他们考虑事情比较长远，不那么容易满足。这种症状在使人衰弱的极端情况下显然需要治疗。但是界定什么是“极端情况”更难——也就是说，要如何界定在什么情况下，“自我”成了我们的障碍？施托塞尔表示，我们仍然无法用科学找出这个界线。我们应该找这个界线吗？“我生活在成功与失败、奉承与羞辱的刀锋上，生活在证明自己有理由活着和表明自己不配活着之间，”他写道。在他看来，不安定感是个问题。但是对很多人来说，不管是焦虑的人还是不焦虑的人，不安定感听起来像一种恩赐。