43 YEARS AGO
43年前
Two musk oxen for a pair of giant pandas. Who would make that trade?
两头麝牛换一对大熊猫，谁会做这样一笔买卖？
The Chinese did, when President Richard M. Nixon was on his world-changing trip to China in 1972.
中国人就是这么干的，这件事发生在1972年，理查德·M·尼克松总统(President Richard M. Nixon)那次改变世界的访华之旅过程中。
Thus renewed the American love affair with these jumbo creatures, the newest of which — twins — were born to the teenage panda Mei Xiang at the National Zoo in Washington on Saturday (one did not survive the week).
于是美国人重新爱上了这种吃竹子的动物，就在8月22日，华盛顿国家动物园的熊猫美香还产下了双胞胎宝宝，不过其中一只在一周内夭折了 。
Panda diplomacy has had a long history, but before Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing arrived in the United States (not long after Nixon returned from his trip), there hadn’t been a giant panda here for more than 20 years.
熊猫外交历史悠久，但在大熊猫玲玲和兴兴抵达美国之前（尼克松从中国归来后不久），美国已经有20多年没有大熊猫了。
At The New York Times, this was front page news, and it began with a vigorous debate about where the pandas would reside. In an article on March 1, 1972, Murray Schumach reported that “with the intensity of politicians bargaining for presidential convention delegates, zoo directors are bringing every kind of pressure to get one of the furry clowns with the black-patched white bodies and the black-ringed eyes.”
玲玲和兴兴的到来成了《纽约时报》的头版新闻，先是一场激烈的争论，讨论它们到底应该住在什么地方。在1972年3月1日的文章中，默里·舒马赫(Murray Schumach)写道，“众家动物园园长为得到一只黑白相间、带黑眼圈的毛绒小丑使尽全身解数，就像政客为了成为总统会议代表一般激烈。”
The Bronx Zoo had a compelling case: “We still have the panda house with its sprinkler and swimming pool,” its director, William G. Conway, was quoted as saying in the article. “It is now inhabited by wallabies,” Mr. Conway was further quoted. “But we’d send them back with the kangaroos in 10 minutes if we could get a panda.”
布朗克斯动物园有个很棒的熊猫舍：“我们仍然保留着带洒水器和泳池的熊猫房，”文中引用园长威廉·G·康韦(William G. Conway)的话说。“现在那个房间被沙袋鼠占了，但如果能够得到一只熊猫，我们可以在十分钟内把它们送回到袋鼠那里。”
By March 13, Nixon had made his decision: The pandas would live at the National Zoo. The conversation then turned to another urgent question:
3月13日，尼克松做了决定，两只熊猫将入驻国家动物园。接下来讨论焦点变成了另一个棘手的问题：
“The sexual identity of the pandas has been discussed at the highest levels,” Robert B. Semple Jr. wrote in an article on March 14. “While sunning himself in Key Biscayne, Fla., John D. Ehrlichman, Mr. Nixon’s top domestic policy adviser, received a call from a zoologist who said he feared that the Chinese might send two males or two females.”
“最高层人士曾为熊猫的性别展开讨论，”3月14日，小罗伯特·B·森普尔(Robert B. Semple Jr.)撰文写道，“尼克松的最高国内政策顾问约翰·D·埃利希曼(John D. Ehrlichman)在佛罗里达州基比斯坎度假晒太阳时，接到一个动物学家的电话，说他担心中国人会送来两只雄性熊猫或两只雌性熊猫。”
They did not. The girl panda, Ling-Ling, and the boy panda, Hsing-Hsing, arrived in early April and made their public bow on April 20. In another front page article, Nan Robertson reported that “the first to pay a call” was “Mrs. Richard M. Nixon, who giggled her way through introductions.”
他们并没有这样做。女熊猫玲玲和男熊猫兴兴在4月初抵达美国，并于4月20日第一次对公众亮相。在另一篇头版文章里，娜恩·罗伯逊(Nan Robertson)写道，“第一个去看望熊猫的是理查德·M·尼克松的夫人，整个介绍过程中一直咯咯笑个不停。”
Ms. Robertson quoted Mrs. Nixon as saying: “They give you an extra dimension of joy.” The first lady added, “I think everyone would like to cuddle them.”
罗伯逊引用尼克松夫人的原话：“它们带给你特别多的快乐。”第一夫人还说，“我觉得所有人都想抱着它们。”
For her part, “Ling-Ling lay on her log sofa, daintily nibbling on a piece of honey-bread toast clutched in a forepaw.”
与此同时，“玲玲斜倚在她的圆木沙发上，用一只前爪拿着一片蜂蜜烤面包，慢条斯理地啃着。”
And what about those musk oxen?
那两头麝牛又怎样了呢？
“Frankly, I just don’t think musk oxen have the sex appeal pandas do,” the National Zoo director, Theodore Reed, was quoted as saying in another Page 1 article by Ms. Robertson. “You like musk oxen, but pandas can steal your heart away.”
“坦白地说，我觉得麝牛不如熊猫那么性感，”罗伯逊女士在另一篇头版文章中引用国家动物园园长西奥多·里德(Theodore Reed)的话说。“你可以喜欢麝牛，但熊猫却能偷走你的心。”
The article reported that Mr. Reed had personally escorted the musk oxen, Milton and Matilda, to Peking (now Beijing), returning with the pandas.
这篇文章还报道，里德亲自护送两头麝牛——米尔顿和马蒂尔德——去往北京，并且带回了两只熊猫。
“He confirmed that Milton was suffering from postnasal drip, possible depression, a cough and falling hair in the Peking zoo. Matilda is also reported to be feeling poorly.”
“他证实，米尔顿在北京动物园有点流鼻涕、咳嗽和掉毛，可能有点抑郁。据说玛蒂尔达状况也不好。”
But thanks for the pandas.
但是幸好我们得到了熊猫。