When James Michael Howard, a decorator from Jacksonville, Fla., began designing and building homes in the Hamptons five years ago, he decided “they would have more cachet if they were furnished.”
来自佛罗里达州杰克逊维尔市(Jacksonville, Fla.)的室内设计师詹姆斯·迈克尔·霍华德(James Michael Howard)五年前开始在汉普顿斯(Hamptons)设计建造房屋时，就已经形成了一个想法，“如果把这些房屋的家具配备齐全，会更有吸引力。”
Last fall, Mr. Howard’s third turnkey property, a 10,500-square-foot, seven-bedroom shingle-style house in Water Mill, N.Y., sold for slightly more than the $11,950,000 asking price. The interiors were filled with eye-catching chandeliers, sumptuous sofas and chairs, paintings, sculptures and a billiards table; the bedrooms were outfitted down to the fine linens, fur throws and down coverlets.
去年秋天，霍华德推出的第三处即刻入住式房产(turnkey property)——纽约州沃特米尔镇(Water Mill, N.Y.)的一栋面积10500平方英尺（约合976平方米）、带七间卧室的木瓦房屋(shingle-style house)，以略高于1195万美元（约合人民币7467万元）的要价售出。屋内安装了引人注目的枝形吊灯、摆着奢华的沙发和座椅、挂着许多幅画、放着几座雕塑，还有一张台球桌；几间卧室里用的都是亚麻细布单、毛皮毯子和羽绒床罩。
Next month, Mr. Howard will finish decorating a new seven-bedroom residence in Water Mill with antiques he bought in France and Britain, “cool accessories” and what he described as about $1.5 million worth of custom rugs from Nepal, Turkey and China. Two sets of bedding, pots and pans, stemware, towels and “the best pillows” complete the house, which is listed for $24,950,000.
下个月，霍华德将会完成沃特米尔镇另一栋七居室住宅的装修工作，屋内将摆放一些他从法国和英国买来的古董、“一些很酷的装饰品”以及一些据他描述从尼泊尔、土耳其和中国定制的、价值约150万美元（约合人民币937万）的小地毯。另配有两套床上用品、各类厨具、高脚器皿、毛巾和“最好的枕头”，让这栋市场售价2495万美元（约合人民币1.56亿元）的房屋一应俱全。
“It’s done,” Mr. Howard said. “It’s not staged like a spec house.”
“已经万事俱备了，”霍华德说，“但还算不上那种专门装修出售的现房。”
He is part of a trend of selling fully furnished luxury homes and condominiums in New York, Los Angeles and Miami, as well as abroad, designed to look as if people with high net worth and good taste have lived there for a long time. The buyers of these turnkey homes can move in with little more than their clothes and a toothbrush.
他已成为这股潮流的一部分——把豪华别墅和共管公寓装修齐全之后再出售，这是纽约、洛杉矶和迈阿密现在流行的做法，海外也是如此。这些房屋设计得就像那些一掷千金又很有品位的人已经在其中住了很长时间。这些即刻入住式住宅的买家，几乎只需带上他们的衣服和一支牙刷就能搬进去了。
“People love it because it’s so easy,” Mr. Howard said.
“人们喜欢这样的设计，因为可以很轻松地入住，”霍华德说。
Gary DePersia, an associate broker with the Corcoran Group — who was the listing broker on all three of Mr. Howard’s done-to-the-nines mansions — has four listings for furnished spec homes (including Mr. Howard’s latest) and six resales over $10 million that are available as turnkey properties. All are on the East End of Long Island.
霍华德这三栋装修到极致的豪宅，是由柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)代理的。该公司的一位合伙经纪人盖理·德波斯(Gary DePersia)手上有四处待售房源属于这种装修齐全的现房（包括霍华德最近完成的这栋），还有六处超过1000万美元（约合人民币6248万元）的二手转售房源，也可作为即刻入住式房产。所有这些房屋都位于长岛(Long Island)东区(East End)。
If buyers “walk into a house and they love the way the house looks,” Mr. DePersia said, “they are going to buy the furnishings because it makes it easier.”
如果买家们“走进一栋房子，喜欢上了屋里的布置”，德波斯说，“他们就会买下其中的家具陈设，因为这样就简单多了。”
Though buying a luxury home furnished can add anywhere from $250,000 to several million dollars to the price, the buyers may later “selectively replace some or most of the furniture” when they “have time for their interior decorator to make the changes,” he said.
虽然一栋家具齐全的豪华住宅在价格上可能增加25万美元（约合人民币156万元）至几百万美元不等，但买家们后续仍有可能“选择性地置换一些或大部分家具”，如果他们“有时间让他们的室内设计师进行调整的话”，他说。
The phenomenon is international and being fueled by super-wealthy buyers with multiple homes.
这已经成为国际上的普遍现象，而且还有那些拥有多套房产的超级富豪买家们的推波助澜。
"In New York, London and Hong Kong, there is a demand from high-net-worth buyers to have turnkey properties,” said Giles Hannah, a senior vice president at Christie’s International Real Estate. “These are new prime houses or luxury serviced apartments that are fully interior designed and furnished that are ready to move into.”
“在纽约、伦敦和香港，购买即刻入住式现房的需求来自那些身价不菲的买家，”佳士得国际房地产公司(Christie's International Real Estate)的一位高级副总裁贾尔斯·汉纳(Giles Hannah)说。“他们买的都是一些新建的高档独栋房，或提供物业服务的豪华公寓。屋内经过装修设计，家具一应俱全，随时可以搬进去。”
In developments like 15 Central Park West in New York, 1 Hyde Park London, the Westminster Terrace Hong Kong and the Bulgari residences in London, more than $2 billion worth of apartments have been sold furnished by developers over the past five years, according to Mr. Hannah.
据汉纳说，在纽约的中央公园西15号(15 Central Park West)、伦敦的海德公园1号(1 Hyde Park London)、香港的皇璧(Westminster Terrace Hong Kong)和伦敦的宝格丽住宅(Bulgari residences)这类楼盘中，开发商们过去五年已经售出的精装公寓，总价值超过20亿美元（约合人民币125亿元）。
“Developers are furnishing apartments to cater for the tastes and needs of wealthy families who desire premium furniture in their homes and convenience of being able to move straight in after purchase,” Mr. Hannah said.
“开发商们精心装修这些公寓，以迎合那些富裕家庭的品味与需求。那些买家都希望家里配有一流的家具，而且买下就能直接入住，”汉纳说。
In Manhattan, the developer Edward J. Minskoff decided to kick off the sales of six new apartments and townhouse condos in an elegant turn-of-the-century eight-story building at 37 East 12th Street in Greenwich Village by listing a two-bedroom furnished model, including museum-quality antiques, for $9.35 million. “It is immediate gratification,” Mr. Minskoff said of the $500,000 décor. The buyers “don’t have to go through the pain of furnishing an entire apartment.”
在曼哈顿，开发商爱德华·J·明斯科夫(Edward J. Minskoff)决定挂出一套配有博物馆级古董家具的精装两居室样板公寓，售价935万美元（约合人民币5842万元），以此来启动位于格林威治村(Greenwich Village)东12街37号(37 East 12th Street)的一栋建于世纪之交的优雅八层大楼中，六套新公寓和联排别墅共管公寓的销售。“这是立刻就能得到的满足感，”明斯科夫谈及50万美元（约合人民币312万元）的布置陈设时说。买家们“就不必经受装修整套公寓的痛苦了”。
On the West Coast, in Beverly Hills last month, Markus Persson, the Swedish creator of the Minecraft video game, paid $70 million in cash for a fully furnished contemporary eight-bedroom 15-bath spec home, including millions of dollars in furnishings. The 23,000-square-foot house has throws and chairs by Hermès and sofas by the Bentley Home Collection, a dining-room table that seats 24, Roberto Cavalli tableware that costs $3,700 a place setting, cases of Dom Pérignon and a Dylan’s Candy Bar wall brimming with sweets.
上个月，在西海岸(West Coast)的贝弗利山(Beverly Hill)，瑞典视频游戏《我的世界》(Minecraft)的创始人马库斯·泊松(Markus Persson)支付7000万美元（约合人民币4.37亿元）现金，购置了一套家具齐全、当代风格、有八间卧室和十五间浴室的现房，房价中包括了上百万美元的装修设计费。这栋面积达2.3万平方英尺（约合2137平方米）的房屋里，配有爱马仕(Hermès)的毛毯与椅子、宾利家居(Bentley Home Collection)的沙发、一张带24个座位的餐厅专用桌及每个餐位上成本3700美元（约合人民币23119元）的罗伯特·卡沃利(Roberto Cavalli)餐具组，还有成箱的唐培里侬香槟(Dom Pérignon)和一整面墙的迪伦糖果吧(Dylan’s Candy Bar)，装满了各式各样的糖果。
Sally Forster Jones, the president of Aaroe International Luxury Properties, who represented the buyer, said that the turnkey aspect was very important to the buyer.
这位买家的代表、Aaroe国际豪华地产公司(Aaroe International Luxury Properties)的总裁萨利·福斯特·琼斯(Sally Forster Jones)说，该买家尤其重视即刻入住这一点。
“You walk in and you love exactly what you see, so you want the whole package,” Ms. Forster Jones said. The deal closed in six days.
“你走进屋来，恰恰就喜欢自己所见的布置，于是就想把它们全部买下来，”福斯特说。这笔交易六天后就完成了。
In Los Angeles, “right now, most of the high-end properties are coming furnished,” she said. “That is the draw, particularly among international buyers and those purchasing second, third and fourth homes.”
在洛杉矶(Los Angeles)，“目前大部分高端地产都是精装修的，”她说，“吸引力就在于此，尤其是对那些国际买家和购买第二、三和四套房产的人来说。”
In Miami, an influx of European, Russian and South American buyers has caused a huge run on furnished real estate, said Steven Gurowitz, the owner of Interiors by Steven G, who teams with developers to outfit condominiums for sale. Mr. Gurowitz furnished 62 new luxury units last year, and he expects to do 80 to 100 this year.
在迈阿密(Miami)，一些来自欧洲、俄罗斯和南美的买家涌入房地产市场，致使精装修房屋的销量猛增，Steven G室内装修公司(Interiors by Steven G)的所有人史蒂文·古罗维茨(Steven Gurowitz)说。他的业务是与开发商合作，将共管公寓整套装修以供销售。古罗维茨去年装修了62套全新豪华公寓，今年，他预计会装修80至100套。
Condo buyers “do not want to wait,” or bother with the downtime incurred by hiring a designer and going to condo boards and municipalities for approvals, Mr. Gurowitz said. “The wealthy want instant gratification. They see it, and they say, ‘How much?’ ”
共管公寓的买家们“不想等待”，也不想自己聘请设计师，然后奔波于共管公寓委员会和市政府去申请批准，为此延误时间，古罗维茨说。“有钱人就想立刻得到满足。他们看过房之后会问，‘多少钱？’”
The uptick in buying turnkey homes also applies to resales.
二手房的销量也同那些即刻入住式现房一样，呈现出上涨趋势。
John Barman, a New York interior designer, is asking $15.75 million for his newly renovated and expanded Sagaponack house, furnished eclectically with traditional English wing chairs, an antique Regency foyer console, Moroccan lantern chandeliers, English Raj furniture and vintage midcentury European and American pieces, and fully accessorized and equipped with white towels and sheets with coordinating colored trim to match the bedrooms.
纽约的一位室内设计师约翰·巴曼(John Barman)开价1575万美元（约合人民币9841万元），在出售他最近翻修并扩建的一栋萨加波纳克镇(Sagaponack)上的房屋。其装修风格博采众长，有几把传统的英式扶手椅、一张摄政时期(Regency)的古董门厅边桌、几盏摩洛哥的笼型吊灯，还有英统治期的印度家具及来自欧洲和美国的世纪中叶古旧家具。而且户内各处都配备了白色毛巾和床单，其彩色边线与卧室的色调协调统一。
“As a designer, I realize how difficult it often is for people to complete the decoration of a house,” Mr. Barman said. Besides time, “there is also the decision-making process, which can be difficult for people trying to imagine the outcome.”
“作为一名设计师，我能体会到人们完成一栋房屋的装修，往往是多么艰难，”巴曼说。除了要花时间，“还有做决定的过程，对于那些试着靠想象来预估装修效果的人来说，可能非常难。”
Despite the premium for buying a turnkey property, “for a large house, seeing what you are getting and not paying for mistakes and saving the time and effort makes it worthwhile,” Mr. Barman said.
尽管购置一套即刻入住式房产要多花些钱，“对于一栋面积较大的房屋而言，所见即所得、又无需为失误买单，还能节省时间和精力，这会让一切物有所值，”巴曼说。
In November, Barbara Candee, an associate broker with Daniel Gale Sotheby’s International Realty, sold an English Regency-style waterfront home in Mill Neck, N.Y., for $11.5 million, with furnishings that included a Steinway piano, upholstered couches, rugs, a French mirror and two paintings in the living room.
2014年11月，丹尼盖尔-苏富比国际地产公司(Daniel Gale Sotheby's International Realty)的一位合伙经纪人芭芭拉·凯迪(Barbara Candee)售出了一栋位于纽约米尔耐克(Mill Neck)的英国摄政风格的水滨别墅，售价1150万美元（约合人民币7186万元）。其室内装修包括一台施坦威(Steinway)钢琴、一组软垫沙发、几块地毯、一面法式镜子和客厅里的两幅画。