BALTIMORE — EACH time I hear someone say, “Do the math,” I grit my teeth. Invariably a reference to something mundane like addition or multiplication, the phrase reinforces how little awareness there is about the breadth and scope of the subject, how so many people identify mathematics with just one element: arithmetic. Imagine, if you will, using, “Do the lit” as an exhortation to spell correctly.
巴尔的摩——每当我听人说“做一下数学”(Do the math)时，我就会咬牙切齿。这个说法总是用来指加法或者乘法这样普通的运算，说明人们对数学的广度和范围了解太少，很多人仅仅把数学看成它的一个组成元素：算术。请允许我打个比方，你能想象把“做一下文学”(Do the lit)当作一个拼写要正确的劝告吗？
As a mathematician, I can attest that my field is really about ideas above anything else. Ideas that inform our existence, that permeate our universe and beyond, that can surprise and enthrall. Perhaps the most intriguing of these is the way infinity is harnessed to deal with the finite, in everything from fractals to calculus. Just reflect on the infinite range of decimal numbers — a wonder product offered by mathematics to satisfy any measurement need, down to an arbitrary number of digits.
作为一个数学家，我可以作证，这个领域的关键是理念。这些理念报知我们的存在，渗透到我们的宇宙乃至以外，令我们惊喜或是陶醉，也许它们最耐人寻味的地方是如何利用“无限”来处理“有限”，从分形学到微积分学，莫不如此。只需想想十进制数字的无限范围，这可是数学提供的一个奇迹产品，可以满足测量方面的一切需要，准确到任意位数。
Despite what most people suppose, many profound mathematical ideas don’t require advanced skills to appreciate. One can develop a fairly good understanding of the power and elegance of calculus, say, without actually being able to use it to solve scientific or engineering problems.
大多数人都不明白，欣赏很多深奥的数学理念其实并不需要高级技能。你无需真正掌握微积分，用它来解决科学或工程问题，就可以理解它的威力和优雅。
Think of it this way: you can appreciate art without acquiring the ability to paint, or enjoy a symphony without being able to read music. Math also deserves to be enjoyed for its own sake, without being constantly subjected to the question, “When will I use this?”
不妨这样来想：你不需要会绘画就可以欣赏画作，不需要识谱就可以欣赏交响乐。数学也应该因其本身而得到欣赏，而不应总是被追问“我什么时候能用得上这个？”
Sadly, few avenues exist in our society to expose us to mathematical beauty. In schools, as I’ve heard several teachers lament, the opportunity to immerse students in interesting mathematical ideas is usually jettisoned to make more time for testing and arithmetic drills. The subject rarely appears in the news media or the cultural arena. Often, when math shows up in a novel or a movie, I am reminded of Chekhov’s proverbial gun: make sure the mathematician goes crazy if you put one in. Hanging thickly over everything is the gloom of math anxiety.
可悲的是，在我们的社会中，让我们领略数学之美的途径极为稀少。在学校里，正如我听到一些老师感慨的那样，让学生沉浸在有趣数学理念的机会通常会被放弃，以便有更多的时间来做测验和算术练习。在新闻媒体或文化领域，很少会出现数学这个主题。很多时候，当数学出现在一部小说或电影中时，我就会想起契诃夫谚语中的枪（“假如不打算开火，就别让一支上膛的来福枪出现。” ——编注）：如果一个数学家不发疯，就别让他出场。对数学的焦虑感，像厚厚的阴霾一样笼罩着万事万物。
And yet, I keep encountering people who want to learn more about mathematics. Not only those who enjoyed it in school and have had no opportunity to pursue it once they began their careers, but also many who performed poorly in school and view it as a lingering challenge. As the Stanford mathematician Keith Devlin argues in his book “The Math Gene,” human beings are wired for mathematics. At some level, perhaps we all crave it.
但是，我不断遇到一些人想更多地了解数学。他们中不仅有那些在学校里就喜欢数学，工作之后再没机会探究的人，也有很多在学校里数学成绩不佳，把这门课视为挥之不去的挑战的人。正如斯坦福大学数学家基思·德夫林(Keith Devlin)在其著作《数学基因》(The Math Gene)中所说的那样，人类天生就有探索数学奥秘的冲动。也许我们在某种层面上都渴望了解数学。
So what math ideas can be appreciated without calculation or formulas? One candidate that I’ve found intrigues people is the origin of numbers. Think of it as a magic trick: harnessing emptiness to create the number zero, then demonstrating how from any whole number, one can create its successor. One from zero, two from one, three from two — a chain reaction of numbers erupting into existence. I still remember when I first experienced this Big Bang of numbers. The walls of my Bombay classroom seemed to blow away, as nascent cardinals streaked through space. Creatio ex nihilo, as compelling as any offered by physics or religion.
那么，在没有计算和公式的情况下，我们可以欣赏什么样的数学理念呢？我发现数字的起源就很耐人寻味。你可以把它想成一个魔术：从空白中产生数字零，然后演示如何从任何一个整数产生下一个整数。零而一，一而二，二而三——一个个数字连锁反应般地爆发出来，我仍然记得自己第一次体验这种数字大爆炸的情形：我所在的孟买教室的墙壁似乎被炸飞，而新生的飞鸟在空间穿行。无中生有，其引人入胜的程度不亚于物理学或宗教提供的任何这类理念。
For a more contemplative example, gaze at a sequence of regular polygons: a hexagon, an octagon, a decagon and so on. I can almost imagine a yoga instructor asking a class to meditate on what would happen if the number of sides kept increasing indefinitely. Eventually, the sides shrink so much that the kinks start flattening out and the perimeter begins to appear curved. And then you see it: what will emerge is a circle, while at the same time the polygon can never actually become one. The realization is exhilarating — it lights up pleasure centers in your brain. This underlying concept of a limit is one upon which all of calculus is built.
再举一个更具沉思色彩的例子。你凝视一个正多边形序列：六边形、八边形、十边形，以此类推。我几乎能想象出一位瑜伽教练，正在让学生们冥想：如果边数无限增加下去，会发生什么情况。最终，每条边都缩减得非常之短，角开始变得圆滑，周边开始显出曲线，然后你就会看到一个圆出现，而与此同时，多边形永远不可能真正成为一个圆。意识到这一点令人感到很爽，因为它会点亮你大脑中的愉悦中心。在这个例子中，根本层面的极限概念正是微积分学的基础之一。
The more deeply you engage with such ideas, the more rewarding the experience is. For instance, enjoying the eye candy of fractal images — those black, amoebalike splotches surrounded by bands of psychedelic colors — hardly qualifies as making a math connection. But suppose you knew that such an image (for example, the Julia Set) depicts a mathematical rule that plucks every point from its spot in the plane and moves it to another location. Imagine this rule applied over and over again, so that every point hops from location to location. Then the “amoeba” comprises those well-behaved points that remain hopping around within this black region, while the colored points are more adventurous and all lope off toward infinity. Not only does the picture acquire more richness and meaning with this knowledge, it suddenly churns with drama, with activity.
你越深入地思索这些理念，这种经历带来的回报就越多。比如，看那些精美的分形图形，就是那些被容易引起幻觉的色带环绕着的、像变形虫一样的黑色斑点，几乎不足以让你产生数学方面的联想。但假如你知道，这样一幅图（比如，朱利亚集合[Julia Set]）描述了一个数学规则，这个规则会让平面上的每一个点脱离所在的位置，并将其移动到另一个位置。想象这一规则会一次又一次地得到应用，这样，每个点都会从一个地方跳到另一个地方。那么，“变形虫”就是由那些乖乖的、依然在这一片黑色区域里四处乱跳的点组成的，而那些彩色的点更有冒险精神，它们大步跳向无穷远的方向。具备这种知识后，这幅图不仅更丰富，更有意义，而且突然间洋溢着戏剧和活力。
Would you be intrigued enough to find out more — for instance, what the different shades of color signified? Would the Big Bang example make you wonder where negative numbers came from, or fractions or irrationals? Could the thrill of recognizing the circle as a limit of polygons lure you into visualizing the sphere as a stack of its circular cross sections, as Archimedes did over 2,000 years ago to calculate its volume?
你有足够的兴趣去寻找更多知识吗，比如，不同色度的颜色有何寓意？“大爆炸”的例子会让你思考负数、分数或无理数来自哪儿吗？意识到圆形是多边形的一种极限带来的兴奋，会促使你把球体想象成一叠圆形横截面吗，就像阿基米德(Archimedes)在2000多年前为了计算球体的体积所做的那样？
If the answer is yes, then math appreciation may provide more than just casual enjoyment: it could also help change negative attitudes toward the subject that are passed on from generation to generation. Students have a better chance of succeeding in a subject perceived as playful and stimulating, rather than one with a disastrous P.R. image.
如果答案是肯定的，那么欣赏数学带来的可能不只是茶余饭后的享受：它还有望帮助转变代代相传的对这门课的消极态度。学生更有可能在一门被认为好玩、富有启迪性，而不是公关形象糟糕的学科上取得成功。
Fortunately, today’s online world, with its advances in video and animation, offers several underused opportunities for the informal dissemination of mathematical ideas. Perhaps the most essential message to get across is that with math you can reach not just for the sky or the stars or the edges of the universe, but for timeless constellations of ideas that lie beyond.
幸运的是，当今的网络世界在视频和动画领域取得了诸多进步，为数学理念的非正式传播提供了一些机会，尽管对这些机会的利用还不够充分。要传递的最基本的一点也许是，借助数学，你不仅能够企及天空、恒星或是宇宙的边际，还能超越它们，接触到永恒的理念星河。