Over the past four decades, the art collection at Russborough House has drawn both the attention of I.R.A. thieves and the interest of more than a million visitors to this 18th-century Georgian mansion.
在过去40年里，18世纪乔治王风格宅邸罗斯伯拉别墅(Russborough House)的艺术藏品既吸引了一百多万游客，也招来了爱尔兰共和军的窃贼。
Soon that collection will be smaller, though, thanks to a decision by the foundation that oversees the house to sell off nine artworks, including six old master paintings by the likes of Rubens, David Teniers the Younger and Francesco Guardi, at Christie’s in London next month.
但它的藏品不久后就要缩减了，监理该别墅的基金会决定下月在伦敦佳士得出售它所拥有的九件艺术品，其中包括鲁本斯(Rubens)、小大卫·特尼尔斯(David Teniers the Younger)和弗朗西斯科·瓜尔迪(Francesco Guardi)等人创作的六件早期绘画大师杰作。
The sale, which Christie’s estimates could raise as much as $12.5 million, is being promoted as a way to shore up the crumbling finances of the house, an imposing example of Palladian classicism.
根据佳士得估计，拍卖总额或高达1250万美元，这笔钱将被用来维持罗斯伯拉别墅岌岌可危的财政状况，它是一栋帕拉第奥古典主义建筑的典范之作。
But the sale is also provoking an outcry among cultural-world denizens in Ireland and some members of the foundation’s board who believe the public should not lose access to the art.
但是拍卖也引起了爱尔兰文化界人士反对的呼声，该基金会委员会的一些成员也对此表示反对，认为公众不应失去接触艺术的途径。
An Taisce, a national heritage society, has called for political intervention to secure the future of the collection in Ireland. The Irish Arts Review, an arts quarterly, is collecting signatures for a petition to halt the auction. And the Irish Georgian Society forced its representative on the foundation’s board to resign after discovering that he had voted in favor of the decision without consulting the society.
国家遗产保护团体安·泰瑟(An Taisce)呼吁政治力量的介入，让这些作品将来可以留在爱尔兰。艺术季刊《爱尔兰艺术评论》(The Irish Arts Review)在为请愿征集签名，要求中止拍卖。爱尔兰乔治王艺术风格社团(Irish Georgian Society)发现一名在该基金会董事会内担任职务的成员未经询问社团意见便投票赞同拍卖，于是要求这名成员辞去社团职务。
“The gift was made to the Irish people,” said Carmel O’Sullivan, head of the school of education at Trinity College Dublin and a foundation board member. “As trustees, it is our responsibility, our moral responsibility, to preserve that for the Irish people.”
“这是赠给爱尔兰人民的礼物，”都柏林圣三一学院(Trinity College)教育学院院长卡梅尔·奥沙利文(Carmel O’Sullivan)说，她也是该基金会的董事会成员。“作为受托人，我们有责任，有道德上的责任为爱尔兰人民保管它。”
Constructed over a decade in the mid-18th century by the first Earl of Milltown, the house, 25 miles outside Dublin, stretches almost 700 feet and is representative of the large country houses built by wealthy Protestant English families in predominantly Roman Catholic Ireland.
罗斯伯拉别墅坐落在都柏林25英里之外，绵延700英尺，是第一任米尔顿伯爵(Earl of Milltown)于18世纪中期修建的，耗时十余年方才建成，它是富裕的新教英国家庭兴建的大型乡村别墅的代表作。在爱尔兰，人们普遍信奉罗马天主教。
In 1952, Russborough became the home of the Englishman Sir Alfred Beit (heir to a diamond and gold mining fortune) and his wife, the former Clementine Mitford, along with their art collection. That renowned collection attracted some unwelcome guests. In 1974, Irish Republican Army gunmen stormed the house with AK-47 assault rifles. They tied up Sir Alfred in the library, banished his wife to the basement and took 19 paintings, including works by Vermeer, Rubens, Goya and Gainsborough, from a couple they castigated as “capitalist pigs.”
1952年，罗斯伯拉成了英国人阿尔弗莱德·贝特爵士(Sir Alfred Beit)夫妇的家，贝特爵士继承了一处钻石与黄金矿藏，他的夫人闺名克莱芒蒂娜·米特福特(Clementine Mitford)，两人带着艺术收藏品搬了进来。这批著名的艺术品吸引了一些不受欢迎的客人。1974年，爱尔兰共和军的枪手带着AK-47冲锋枪冲进屋子，把阿尔弗莱德爵士绑在图书室，把他的妻子关在地下室，称夫妻两人是“资本主义的猪猡”，并带走了19幅画作，包括维米尔(Vermeer)、鲁本斯、戈雅(Goya)和庚斯博罗(Gainsborough)的作品。
The artwork was recovered 11 days later inside a cottage in County Cork after a nationwide search.
11天后，在全国范围的搜寻中，人们在科克郡的一处农村小屋里发现了这些作品。
In the aftermath the couple turned their mansion and its art into a charitable foundation that opened Russborough House to the public in 1978. The house has nonetheless experienced at least three more thefts, including one in 1986 when 17 paintings were stolen.
之后，这对夫妇将这处宅邸和它们的艺术收藏交给了一个慈善基金会，1978年，该基金会将罗斯伯拉别墅面向公众开放。之后它又遭遇了至少三次盗窃事件，其中1986年，17幅画作失窃。
The foundation’s leaders have said the art collection’s vulnerability to theft remains a concern and that, along with operating deficits and the cost of repairing the crumbling infrastructure, led them to sell the old masters.
基金会的领导者们说，这些艺术品格外容易失窃，这一直令他们担心，再加上运营赤字，以及修补破损建筑的成本，令他们做出卖掉这些古老杰作的决定。
“In order to fulfill its responsibility to the Beit legacy, the endowment fund which will be established with the proceeds raised by selling this small and very carefully selected group of paintings is an absolute necessity,” the foundation, known as the Alfred Beit Foundation, said in a statement announcing the Christie’s sale.
“为了履行对贝特遗产的责任，我们决定出售这一小批经过细心挑选的画作，筹集来的钱款用于捐赠基金，这是完全必要的，”这个名为“阿尔弗莱德·贝特基金会”的基金在宣布通过佳士得拍卖画作的声明中说。
In an email, Eric Blatchford, chief executive of the foundation, said, “The paintings for auction have not been on display at Russborough or elsewhere for nearly 20 years and with no prospect of them returning to Russborough, because of their value, it was a relatively sensible option to select these paintings for auction.” (Worries over security have kept the paintings in storage.)
该基金会的首席执行官埃里克·布拉彻福特(Eric Blatchford)在电子邮件中写道，“这批拍卖的画作已经有将近20年不曾在罗斯伯拉或其他地方展出了，将来也无法回归罗斯伯拉，因为它们的价值，选择拍卖它们是非常合情理的决定。”（出于安全方面的考虑，这批画作一直被寄存他处）。
Among the works being sold, two oil on oak paintings by Rubens, “Head of a Bearded Man” (estimated to sell for $3.2 million to $4.7 million) and “Venus Supplicating Jupiter” ($1.9 million to $2.8 million) carry the highest estimates.
在即将出售的作品中有两副鲁本斯的作品，是以油彩绘制在橡木上，分别为《有胡须的男人头像》（Head of a Bearded Man，估价在320万美元至470万美元）和《维纳斯祈求朱庇特》（Venus Supplicating Jupiter，190万美元至280万美元），它们是本次拍卖中估价最高的作品。
As is the case in the United States, museum leaders in Ireland typically frown on the sale of artwork to bolster operating expenses.
和美国的情况相同，爱尔兰的博物馆馆长们通常不愿出卖艺术品以贴补运营费用。
The Irish Museums Association’s position is that works held in trust on behalf of the public should be sold only in the most exceptional circumstances. In addition, the Irish Heritage Council has a museum standards program that sets out when and how collections can be disposed.
爱尔兰博物馆协会(Irish Museums Association)的立场是，以公众名义进行信托的艺术品只有在极为特殊的情况下才能出售。此外，爱尔兰文化遗产委员会(Irish Heritage Council)有自己的博物馆标准程序，规定了收藏品在什么情况下可以什么方式进行处理。
But Lesley-Ann Hayden of the heritage council says it is a voluntary code and Russborough House has not joined the organization.
但是文化遗产委员会的莱斯利-安·海登(Lesley-Ann Hayden)说，这是自愿遵守的条款，罗斯伯拉别墅也没有加入这个组织。
Art collections in manor houses are attractive assets but also can pose burdens that go well beyond the cost of protecting and insuring them. The cost of upgrading the lighting, air quality and the like to museum standards would be prohibitive for many old country houses, and Ireland, still suffering from nearly a decade of economic austerity, has generally not come to the rescue of cultural organizations or landmarks.
庄园大宅中的艺术藏品是非常引人注目的资产，但它们带来的负担可能选超维护和保险的费用。对于许多老旧的乡村宅邸来说，将照明系统、空气质量系统等升级为博物馆标准的费用过于高昂，爱尔兰近十年来仍在经历经济紧缩，一般不会挽救文化机构或地标建筑。
There is also the political question of financial support for so-called big Houses, whose historical baggage includes the association of the land-rich estates with British colonialism.
政府对这些所谓的大宅提供经济支持也会带来政治问题，这些宅邸通常有其历史负担，和英国殖民主义的地主庄园有关。
“Irishmen permitted tenancies as estate workers often resented the sectarian intolerance, anti-democratic politics and the pretense of social elitism of their putative colonizers,” said Ruan O’Donnell, senior professor of history at the University of Limerick.
“在租赁庄园工作过的爱尔兰人通常对他们心目中的殖民者心怀不满，反感他们对教派的不宽容和反民主的政治，以及虚伪的社会精英主义，”利默里克大学(University of Limerick)历史系资深教授卢安·奥德尼尔(Ruan O’Donnell)说。
Owners of such estates have resorted to other methods of revenue raising, including renting them for festivals and rock concerts or transforming them into luxury boutique hotels, like Castlemartyr, where Kim Kardashian and Kanye West spent their honeymoon.
这些大宅的拥有者们通过其他办法应对开支增加，比如把它们租给各种节庆活动和摇滚乐演唱会使用，或者将它们改装为豪华精品酒店，比如卡斯托玛塔(Castlemartyr)酒店，金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)和坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)就是在那里度蜜月的。
Others, like the long-time owners of Bantry House, a stately home southwestern Ireland, and Westport House in the west, offloaded possessions.
还有其他情况，比如爱尔兰西南部豪宅班特利别墅(Bantry House)和西部的西港别墅(Westport House)的长期所有者都放弃了所有权。
Russborough House has sent items to auction before. It sold a collection of 15th- and 16th-century Italian bronzes at Christie’s in 2006, and antique Chinese porcelain at Sotheby’s in 2013.
罗斯伯拉别墅之前也曾拍卖过自己的收藏。2006年，它在佳士得拍卖了一批15世纪到16世纪的意大利青铜艺术品，2013年在苏富比拍卖了一批中国古董瓷器。
Critics of the foundation’s decision recognize that Russborough House faces steep challenges. Yet they urge the board to intensify its search for other income sources. Ms. O’Sullivan, for example, said that during her three years on the board she has pushed for stepped-up fund-raising from the private sector.
这一决定的批评者们也认识到，罗斯伯拉别墅面临着严峻的挑战。但他们敦促委员会努力寻找其他收入来源。比如奥沙利文就说，她在委员会内的三年期间，一直推动从私营机构处筹款。
And some believe that there can be a role for the state. An Taisce, the national heritage society, last month proposed to the government that its Office of Public Works take ownership of the house and grounds with the foundation still owning the contents, as it did with an 18th-century house in Castletown in 1994. The minister has acknowledged the letter but no date for a meeting has been set.
有些人相信国家也能在其中发挥作用。国家文化遗产团体安·泰瑟上月向政府建议，政府的公共设施办公室应该获取罗斯伯拉别墅及其土地的所有权，但让该基金会保有别墅中的藏品，1994年，城堡镇(Castletown)的一处18世纪别墅正是这样处理的。部长表示已经收到了建议，但还没有安排具体会议日期。
Meanwhile, Heather Humphreys, the minister for arts, heritage and the Gaeltacht, has set up a committee to advise her on how best to sustain these historic houses.
与此同时，艺术、文化遗产与爱尔兰语区部长海泽·汉弗莱(Heather Humphreys)成立了一个委员会，专门就如何最佳保护历史宅邸向她提出建议。
Amid the brouhaha over the paintings headed for the Christie’s auction, some voices urge perspective. After turning over their home to the nation, the Beits, in 1987, bestowed a stunning selection of paintings to the National Gallery of Ireland, including ones by Vermeer, Goya and Gainsborough.
在关于这次佳士得画作拍卖的喧闹之中，有些声音更有见识。贝特夫妇1987年将宅邸上交国家之后，还将大量精美画作捐献给了爱尔兰国家美术馆(National Gallery of Ireland)，包括维米尔、戈雅和庚斯博罗的作品。