When I asked Stephen Burt’s parents if they worried about him when he was young, Burt’s father, Jeff, replied by asking me if I was Jewish. I told him I was. “Well,” he said, “to ask Jewish parents if they were worried about their children — it is a statement of fact! But were we more worried about Stephen than about the other children? The answer is yes.” As a boy, Stephen, the eldest of their four sons, was, in his dad’s words, “extremely precocious”; his parents’ reminiscences make him sound lovable but very intense, with interests out of step with other boys his age. His mother, Sandra, told me that in third grade he wrote an essay about “a little boy whose mother forced him to go out and play.”
当我问斯蒂芬·伯特(Stephen Burt)的父母，他们是否担心小时候的伯特，他的父亲杰夫(Jeff)反问我是不是犹太人。我告诉他，我是犹太人。“你瞧，”他说，“问犹太父母是否担心他们的孩子——这就是事实！不过要是问比起别的孩子，我们是否更担心斯蒂芬？答案是肯定的。”作为四个孩子中的长子，用他父亲的话来说，斯蒂芬“极其早熟”；在他父母的回忆中，他是个非常可爱、感情强烈的孩子，与同龄的其他男孩兴趣不合。他的母亲桑德拉(Sandra)告诉我，在小学三年级的时候，斯蒂芬写了篇文章，说的是“有个小男孩的母亲强迫他出去玩。”
“What would happen to him?” Jeff remembered thinking. “What would he become? Who would marry him?”
“他究竟会怎么样？”杰夫回想道，“他长大后会成什么样？谁愿意嫁给他？”
What he became was, among many other things, one of the most influential poetry critics of his generation. Burt is 41, a professor of English at Harvard, heir to the intellectual mantle long held by giants like Harold Bloom and Helen Vendler. He is also an avid science-fiction fan, the founder of a short-lived indie-pop zine, an authority on women’s basketball, the husband of Jessie Bennett, with whom he has two sons, and an unabashed cross-dresser. Bennett often helps Burt pick the women’s clothes that he wears for special occasions — parties, poetry readings — though he says that he never dresses like a woman in the classroom. (“For the same reason that you wouldn’t teach in a tuxedo,” he says, “because the classroom is about the poem, not about you.”)
长大后，他成为了这一代最有影响力的诗歌评论家，取得了诸多成就。41岁的伯特是哈佛大学的英语教授，哈罗德·布鲁姆(Harold Bloom)和海伦·文德勒(Helen Vendler)等诗坛巨匠长期把持的评论界的衣钵传人。他也是狂热的科幻小说迷，短命的独立流行音乐杂志的创始人，女子篮球的权威，杰西·贝内特（Jessie Bennett，著名网页设计师——译注）的丈夫（他们有两个儿子），以及不折不扣的异装癖。贝内特经常帮伯特挑选他在特殊场合穿的女装——比如聚会和诗歌朗诵会——不过他说，自己从来没在教室里穿过女装。（“这和你不穿燕尾服教课是一样的道理，”他说，“因为课堂上讲的是诗歌，又不是你。”）
Burt has published two full-length books of his own poetry and two of the shorter volumes known as chapbooks, but in the poetry world he matters because of his criticism. Being a major poetry critic in the United States today may seem like a dubious honor, almost akin to being the best American cricketer, or a distinguished expert on polka. Yet we still teach poetry to our children, and we still reach for it at important moments — funerals, weddings, presidential inaugurations. We tend to look askance at those who claim to be practitioners, skeptical that their work could be any good. We mistrust our own tastes, so we rely on the tastemaker.
伯特已经出版了两本学术专著，当中收录了他本人的诗作，以及两本以通俗读物闻名的短篇作品，然而他在诗歌界的重要地位归功于他的评论。作为当今美国举足轻重的诗评家，听起来也许是个不太可靠的头衔，类似于美国最好的板球运动员，或是杰出的波尔卡舞专家。然而，我们依然向孩子们讲授诗歌，我们依然在重要的时刻引用诗歌——葬礼、婚礼、总统就职典礼。我们会对那些自称为诗人的家伙侧目而视，怀疑他们的作品会带来什么好处。我们不相信自己的品味，所以我们依赖品味创造者。
Burt is not the only young scholar whose reviews introduce new poetry to the masses, but he alone seems to be everywhere. He reviews for Web sites, magazines and major newspapers, including this one. He networks at conferences, on campuses, on Facebook. And he is a passionate booster of poets he loves. Not everyone believes he’s a great critic, but few doubt that his opinions help dictate who becomes part of the canon (and thus college syllabuses and high-school classes) in the way that the opinions of Bloom and Vendler and Stanford’s Marjorie Perloff (all of whom are around 80 years old) have for the last several decades. That Burt sometimes wears a dress and talks hyperkinetically about obscure indie bands like Sarge or the graphic novels of Posy Simmonds has not diminished his influence but enhanced it. As Willard Spiegelman, the editor of Southwest Review and a respected critic in his own right, wrote recently about Burt’s tastes: “Yesterday’s meadow morphs into today’s High Line, Keats’s Philomela into Lady Gaga.” Burt is the critic who, more than any other, understands the here and now and “flourishes amid the hipsters and the sonneteers.”
伯特并不是唯一通过评论向大众介绍新诗的年轻学者，但是似乎只有他无处不在。他的诗评发表于网络、杂志和各大报纸，本报也包括在内。他的人脉遍及学术会议、校园、Facebook。对于他喜爱的诗人，他是充满热情的支持者。并非每个人都认为他是出色的评论家，不过很少有人怀疑，他的评论能够帮助诗人进入权威正典（从而进入高校教学大纲和高中课堂），正如布鲁姆、文德勒和斯坦福大学的马乔里·佩罗夫(Marjorie Perloff)的评论过去几十年所做的那样，而这些评论家都已经是耄耋老人。伯特有时身穿长裙，手舞足蹈地谈论“Sarge”等无名独立乐队和波西·西蒙兹(Posy Simmonds)的漫画小说，这并未削弱他的影响力，反而让他的影响力有所提升。作为《西南评论》(Southwest Review)的编辑，威拉德·施皮格尔曼(Willard Spiegelman)本人也是位备受尊重的评论家，他最近在文章中提到了伯特的品味：“昔日的草甸成为当今的高地，济慈的夜莺变成了Lady Gaga。”伯特是位与众不同的评论家，他理解当今世界以及“时尚达人和十四行诗的盛行”。
In the 1980s, Laura Kasischke started publishing short, confessional, often dark poems about motherhood, family and domesticity. She had fans, but Burt felt that she deserved more. Starting in 2000, he wrote reviews praising her work. In 2007, he discussed Kasischke in his book “The Forms of Youth: 20th-Century Poetry and Adolescence.” The next year, in Boston Review, Burt wrote that “Kasischke has invented a new way for verse to sound” — anyone can recognize that as a serious compliment. In 2009, he reprinted the Boston Review essay in his book “Close Calls With Nonsense”; and, in 2011, he reviewed Kasischke’s new book, “Space, in Chains,” for The New York Times Book Review, writing, “No poet has joined the chasm of ontological despair to the pathos of household frustration so well as Kasischke.”
20世纪80年代，劳拉·卡西希克(Laura Kasischke)开始发表简短而忧郁的忏悔诗，以母亲、家人和家庭生活为主题。她有不少粉丝，不过伯特觉得她应该得到更多的支持。从2000年起，伯特撰写诗评称赞她的作品。2007年，他在自己的著作《青年的培养：20世纪诗歌和青少年》(The Forms of Youth: 20th-Century Poetry and Adolescence)中谈到了卡西希克。次年，在《波士顿评论》(Boston Review)中，伯特写道，“卡西希克开创了诗句音律的新格式”——任何人都能意识到，这是郑重其事的称赞。2009年，他把《波士顿评论》的这篇文章收录进自己的新书《远离妄言》(Close Calls With Nonsense)，2011年，他为《纽约时报》书评版评论了卡西希克的新书《空间，镣铐》(Space, in Chains)，他写道，“没有诗人像卡西希克这样，如此巧妙地把绝望的深渊和家庭挫折的悲哀结合起来。”
This past March, “Space, in Chains,” won the National Book Critics Circle Award. Burt was one of the jurors.
今年3月，《空间，镣铐》赢得了美国国家书评奖(National Book Critics Circle Award)。伯特担任了这个奖项的评审。
To nonpoets, the perks of this attention may seem trivial. Even if a poet gets a big award, her next book may sell 2,000 copies instead of 200. But when the only real currency is reputation, the blessing of a major critic matters. Other poets start to read your work, and if they teach in master’s programs, their students — the next generation of poets — read your work, too.
如果不是诗人，这种关注带来的好处似乎微不足道。即使是诗人获得了大奖，她下一本书的销量只是从200本变成2000本。然而，如果名誉是唯一真正的好处，那么主要评论家的称赞至关重要。其他诗人会开始读你的作品，如果他们教硕士课程的话，他们的学生——下一代诗人——也会读你的作品。
“It has made a huge difference in my career, ” Kasischke, who teaches at the University of Michigan, told me. “He hasn’t put my poetry on the best-seller list, but I think people read him. And because he goes everywhere and speaks, and has mentioned my name, it has made a difference with other poets and with readers.”
“这在我的职业生涯中非同小可，”任教于密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的卡西希克告诉我，“他还没有让我的诗歌登上畅销书排行榜，不过我认为人们读到了他的评论。因为他到处发表演说，提到我的名字，这对其他诗人和读者都产生了影响。”
Burt has other favorites. Among living American poets, he has also championed Rae Armantrout, who is associated with the “language poets,” an avant-garde movement that began around 1970 (Armantrout won the Pulitzer Prize in 2010); the poet and attorney Monica Youn; and the long-neglected Allan Peterson. Some dead poets, like Lorine Niedecker, are coming back to life, or at least being read again, in part because of Burt’s ministrations.
伯特还有其他喜爱的诗人。依然在世的美国诗人中，他对雷·阿尔曼特劳特(Rae Armantrout)倍加赞赏，这位诗人和20世纪70年代兴起的前卫运动“语言诗派”有关（阿尔曼特劳特在2010年荣获普利策奖）；诗人、律师莫妮卡·云(Monica Youn)；长期被忽视的艾伦·彼得森(Allan Peterson)。由于伯特的推荐，有些已故的诗人，比如洛琳·尼德克(Lorine Niedecker)也起死回生，至少作品再度被人阅读。
Burt has few critics — or few critics who, given his influence, will be quoted. An exception is Steve Evans, who teaches at the University of Maine and says that Burt is often late to the party, putting his seal of approval on poets, like Armantrout, who have been important for years. But the more common critique is that Burt is too positive. And while Burt does write negative reviews, he writes so much, and so many of his reviews are songs of praise, that he can seem like a relentless, passionate booster — a fanboy.
伯特很少遇到批评者——或者说由于他的影响力，很少有批评者的话被引用。史蒂夫·埃文斯(Steve Evans)却是个例外，任教于缅因州大学(University of Maine)的史蒂夫表示，伯特的评论往往来得太晚，他对阿尔曼特等诗人的成就予以认可，而他们已经成名多年。不过更常见的批评是，伯特的评论过于乐观，尽管伯特的确写过负面评论，不过他的评论大多是赞美的诗篇，他似乎是永不疲倦、热情洋溢的支持者——狂热的粉丝。
The fanboy is, by his nature, an imperfect evangelist. I find Burt’s lucid, insightful explications of poems energizing: they make you want to discover more of that poet’s work. But there is something unnerving about his voracious enthusiasm. It’s the feeling you got hanging out with the kid who had every bootleg by his 100 favorite bands, or with the sci-fi junkie, or the film buff. They are obsessives, completists, and they overwhelm. You need a mixtape for a car ride, they give you 20 that you just must hear.
从本质上来说，这位狂热的粉丝是不完美的传道者。我发现伯特对诗歌透彻精辟的解释充满活力：这些评价让你希望寻找这位诗人更多的作品。但是他浑身洋溢的热情也让人感到不安。你觉得遇到了一个孩子，他拥有自己最喜爱的100个乐队的盗版唱片，或者是科幻发烧友和电影爱好者。他们无比痴迷、追求完美、不能自拔。你只想要一张混音专辑在车上打发时间，他们却给你20张专辑，让你必须听完。
The poet Mary Jo Bang said that she wished Burt gave readers better guidance to what counts as good and what counts as bad. If you don’t offer that well-rounded sensibility, Bang said, “it may begin to seem to others that you are resting on the proposition ‘This is good because I like it.’ ”
诗人玛丽·乔·邦(Mary Jo Bang)说，她希望伯特给读者更好的指导，解释什么样的诗好，什么样的诗不好。邦说，如果你的鉴赏力无法面面俱到，“那么可能会让别人觉得，你的评判标准是，‘因为我喜欢，这首诗就是好的’。”
Burt, who preferred to give longer, more thoughtful answers by e-mail after we spent time together in Cambridge, defends his preference for positivity by saying, “There’s so little airtime available for any poetry these days that when I get space and time in which I can do whatever I want, I don’t want to say, ‘X sucks.’ I almost always prefer to say, ‘Please check out Y,’ or ‘Z isn’t what you think,’ or ‘Look at what A, B and C have in common.’ ”
我们在坎布里奇会面后，伯特选择在电子邮件中给出更充分、更周到的答复，为他乐观评价的偏好作解释，他说道，“现在没有多少篇章留给诗歌，当我有空间和时间做我想做的事情时，我不想说‘X真差劲’。我几乎总是说，‘请确定Y或Z并不是你想象的样子’，或者“看看A、B、C有什么共同点。””
This is an old school of thought: it’s best just to ignore bad poetry. W. H. Auden felt this way, and Vendler has written that it’s pointless to review bad poetry. Willard Spiegelman also defends Burt’s cheery style. The poetry world needs its hatchet men, he explained — William Logan is the best known — but it also needs talent scouts. “Burt is the apostle of niceness,” Spiegelman told me, “but that is neither good nor bad.”
这是种老派的思想：最好对拙劣的诗歌视而不见。奥登(W. H. Auden)有这种看法，而文德勒也撰文指出，评论蹩脚的诗歌毫无意义。威拉德·施皮格尔曼也为伯特乐观的评论风格辩护。他解释说，诗歌界需要职业打手——威廉·洛根(William Logan)以此而闻名——可是也需要挖掘人才的星探。施皮格尔曼告诉我，“伯特是友善的传道者，不过这并没有好坏之分。”
I’m not sure I agree. Given Burt’s influence, it would be instructive to know his sensibilities more deeply. He would not say, on the record, which famous poets he considers overrated, which seemed to me needless cowardice. What’s a critic for if not to prick overinflated reputations? On the other hand, Burt is right to speak well of new, younger poets. Journals run so few poetry reviews, and readers are so tentative, that critics who cut down one book of poems may keep readers away from the entire genre. For a critic, sticking to the books he likes is a service not only to poets but to poetry itself.
我不确定我赞同这种观点。鉴于伯特的影响力，更深入了解他的鉴赏力会给人启发。从公开的纪录来看，他不会宣称自己认为哪位知名诗人徒有虚名，在我看来这是不必要的怯懦之举。如果不能抨击虚名，那么评论还有什么意义？另一方面，伯特对新生代年轻诗人的称赞恰如其分。期刊很少发表诗歌评论，读者对诗歌毫无把握，评论家贬低一本诗集，可能会让读者远离整个诗歌流派。对于评论家来说，坚持评论自己喜欢的书，不仅是为诗人效力，也是对诗歌本身做出贡献。
Burt is an eclectic obsessive. At Green Acres, a private elementary school in suburban Maryland, he was so curious about chemistry that one of his teachers found a retired university professor to be his mentor. He was also a standout pianist and a nimble artist. And his enthusiasm for science fiction is what led him to poetry. “Samuel R. Delany’s ‘The Fall of the Towers’ opens with a giant quote from Auden,” Burt wrote to me. “That’s how I discovered Auden. At 13, I read almost nothing but S.F. and popular nonfiction explaining science; by 17 I was reading, primarily, poetry.”
伯特的爱好极为广泛。在马里兰郊区的私立小学“绿色田野”(Green Acres)，他对化学产生了好奇心，有位老师找到退休的大学教授担任他的导师。他也是杰出的钢琴家和心灵手巧的艺术家。他对科幻小说的热情，让他对诗歌产生了兴趣。伯特在给我的信中写道，“塞缪尔·德拉尼(Samuel R. Delany)的科幻小说《高塔的坠落》(The Fall of the Towers)开篇引述了奥登的大段诗句。我就是这样发现了奥登。13岁的时候，我只读科幻小说和流行的非小说类科普书；到了17岁，我读的主要是诗歌。”
As a Harvard freshman in Helen Vendler’s poetry seminar, he already “knew more than anyone else in the class by far,” Vendler says. But “he gallantly held himself in check so as not to dominate the class.” He was a D.J. for Harvard radio and poetry editor of The Harvard Advocate. After Harvard, he spent a year at Oxford; by the end of that year he was writing for the prestigious Times Literary Supplement.
作为哈佛大学的新生，他上了海伦·文德勒的诗歌课，文德勒说，他当时“知道的东西比班上任何学生都多”。但是他勇敢地保持克制，以免在班上出风头。他担任了哈佛电台的DJ和《哈佛呼声》(The Harvard Advocate)的诗歌编辑。从哈佛大学毕业后，他在牛津大学待了一年；那年年底，他为声名显赫的《泰晤士报》(Times)文学副刊撰写稿件。
It was at Oxford that Burt began wearing women’s clothes — just sometimes, when he was in the mood. “I knew I was queer in some way in high school, but I didn’t know what way,” Burt wrote to me. “I didn’t understand until college that I could be queer (out of sync with common expectations about gender and sex) but attracted exclusively, or almost exclusively, to women.” In his recent essay “On Growing Up Between Genders” (which ran in a small journal I help edit), Burt wrote that his teenage sexual encounters “usually involved a moment when I asked to try on a girl’s bra. The answer was always yes.”
正是在牛津大学，伯特开始穿着女装——只在他有兴致的时候偶尔为之。伯特在信中告诉我，“我知道自己在高中的时候有些奇怪，不过我不知道是怎么回事。我到了大学才明白，我可能是性错乱者（对性别和性的普遍预期错位），不过我只喜欢，或者说几乎只喜欢女性。”他最近有篇文章《成长于男女之间》(On Growing Up Between Genders)刊登在我担任编辑的一本小期刊上，伯特在文中写道，在他少年时期的性接触中，“往往会在某个时刻，我问能否试穿一个女孩的胸罩时，结果总能得到肯定的答复。”
In January 1997, when he was studying at Yale, Burt attended a Sarge concert at Brass City Records, in Waterbury, Conn. He met up there with Jessie Bennett, whom he knew from an indie-pop e-mail list but had never met in person. They bonded over literature and music and began dating a few months later. By June, Bennett was, she said, “well down the road to picking out china patterns.”
1997年1月，在就读于耶鲁大学期间，伯特参加了康涅狄格州沃特伯里铜城唱片店(Brass City Records)举行的Sarge音乐会。他在那里遇到了杰西·贝内特，此前他在独立流行音乐的电子邮件列表上认识了这个姑娘，但是从来没见过本人。他们因文学和音乐走到了一起，几个月后开始约会。贝内特说，到了6月，“她就准备为婚礼挑选瓷器的花样。”
Bennett got Burt interested in women’s basketball, which quickly became another one of his obsessions. In women’s basketball, “stars are successful without becoming unapproachable worldwide media brands,” Burt said, and “political overtones are generally feminist where they exist.” Above all, he enjoyed the “almost cultlike fan world” of women’s basketball, to quote from the title of his 2005 essay in The Believer. Here was another community, like sci-fi or poetry fans, that existed to appreciate the underappreciated. From 2005 to 2010, Burt wrote for Women’s Hoops Blog. “We were posting 20, 30, 40 posts a day,” said Ted Sampsell-Jones, the blog’s founder. So while Burt was up for tenure at two elite colleges, first Macalester, in St. Paul, then Harvard, he was spending hours every week curating links to news stories from around the country about women’s collegiate basketball.
贝内特让伯特对女子篮球产生了兴趣，这迅速成为他热爱的另一项事业。在女子篮球界，“不必成为无与伦比的全球性媒体品牌，篮球明星也能获得成功，”伯特说，“其中通常带有女权主义的政治色彩。”最重要的是，他喜爱女子篮球这个“近乎疯狂的球迷世界”，这句话来自他2005年在《信徒》杂志(The Believer)发表的文章标题。这是另一个群体，就像科幻小说迷和诗歌爱好者那样，重视那些怀才不遇的人。从2005年到2010年，伯特为“女子篮球博客”(Women’s Hoops Blog)撰稿。这个博客的创始人泰德·桑普塞尔-琼斯(Ted Sampsell-Jones)说，“我们每天会更新20到40篇文章。”尽管伯特先后在两所名牌大学任教，起初在圣保罗的马克莱斯特学院(Macalester)，然后到哈佛大学，他每周还是花费数小时，整理全美各地关于大学女子篮球的新闻报道链接。
What Burt sometimes lacks as a critic — that defined sensibility that you can either embrace or rage against, defining your own taste in the process — he fully possesses as a man. Claudia Gonson of the band the Magnetic Fields has known Burt since college, and she called him an apostle of all things “indie” — “By which I mean,” she said, “somewhat under the radar, or difficult to find, or left of center, or difficult to grasp.” Burt likes talented underdogs: the band that almost made it, the poet you have yet to hear of. The freaks and geeks.
伯特有时缺乏评论家的特质——那种明确的鉴赏力，让你能够表示赞同或反对，在这个过程中确定你自己的品味——不过他具备男人的所有特质。磁场乐队(Magnetic Fields)的克劳迪娅·贡松(Claudia Gonson)从大学时就认识伯特，把他称为所有“独立”事业的信徒——她说，“我指的是那些低调神秘、很难寻觅、中间偏左、难以把握的事业。”伯特喜欢才华横溢的小人物：比如初露头角的乐团，名不见经传的诗人。他喜欢怪胎和怪才。
I have heard people call Burt awkward, but I think what they mean is that he is intense and strange; he’s nothing if not confident. “I like lecturing,” Burt said. “It’s a performance, it’s live theater in a way.” In the classroom, he jumps on tables and chairs, and he also writes with chalk on the walls of lecture halls. “He is really sensitive to the performing and advertising aspect of teaching undergraduates,” says Nikki Skillman, a recent graduate student who taught with Burt. Skillman did not deny that Burt’s lectures can be gimmicky, but says the gimmicks worked. “Students won’t expect a faculty member talking about Middle English lyric or Milton to start drawing analogies to ’80s punk rock.”
我听到有人说伯特举止笨拙，可是我认为他们的意思是，伯特感情强烈、性情古怪；如果不自信的话，他就是个普通人。伯特说，“我喜欢讲课。这是一种表演，有点像现场演出。”在课堂上，他会跳上桌椅，在教室的墙上用粉笔书写。“他实际上对本科生教学过程中的表演和宣传很敏感，”尼克·斯基尔曼(Nikki Skillman)说，他是伯特教过的学生，最近刚毕业。斯基尔曼并不否认伯特的讲课充满噱头，但是这些噱头很管用。“学生们没想到，老师在谈论中世纪英语抒情诗或者弥尔顿时，开始用80年代的朋克摇滚打比方。”
Burt is clearly attracted to dramatic performance, to persona, to characterization. “This is cheap guesswork on my part,” the poet Albert Goldbarth says, “but there must be a kind of bonding between that interest in his own life” — cross-dressing — “and the idea of costuming, with different identities, that we find in the superhero universe.”
显然，伯特对戏剧表演、人物形象和角色塑造很感兴趣。“这是我随意的猜测，”诗人阿尔伯特·戈德巴斯(Albert Goldbarth)说，“不过他个人生活的兴趣”——男扮女装——“和装扮创意之间必定存在某种联系，结合不同的身份，我们会在超级英雄世界中找到这种联系”。
On Aug. 1, a day of off-and-on rain, I accompanied Burt to the Garment District, a favored thrift store in Cambridge. Burt, who is balding but otherwise looks like a boy, wore his usual uniform of boy’s clothes — jeans, T-shirt, canvas sneakers — dressed up with a gray-blue shade of nail polish and a couple of clunky plastic rings. In the women’s section, he found a gray blouse.
8月1日，那天下着阵雨，我陪同伯特去“服装区”(Garment District)，这是坎布里奇一家受人欢迎的旧货店。伯特有些秃顶，可是外表看起来像个男孩，他穿着平常男生的衣服——牛仔裤、T恤、帆布鞋——他的手上涂着灰蓝色的指甲油，戴着几个拙朴的塑料指环。在女装区，他找到了一件灰色的女式衬衫。
“Is it supposed to be tight around the body?” he asked the woman working the fitting room. “I’m worried it’s too tight.”
“这件衣服穿在身上紧吗？”他问管理试衣间的女店员，“我担心太紧了。”
“I say go for it!” she said. “It can fit snugly. That’s fine.”
“要我说，你得试试！”她说道，“这衣服很贴身，挺好的。”
As we walked to the cash registers, Burt and I resumed a conversation about the differences between pop music and poetry, which he was explaining by way of the “Star Trek” episode in which the Enterprise is captured by aliens whose lives unfold at an accelerated speed.
我们走到收银机旁，伯特和我再次谈起了流行音乐和诗歌的差异，他通过电视剧《星际迷航》(Star Trek)来解释这些差异，剧中的“进取号飞船”(Enterprise)被外星人俘获，这些外星人的生活节奏很快。
We were approaching some convergence point, when all Burt’s interests, from poetry to pop to cross-dressing to sci-fi, collided in one echt-Burt conversational exchange. “The aliens in that episode are just like us, only their lives go faster,” Burt said. “Everything for them is sped up. That is like the pop scene. Trends go faster, new bands explode faster, die out faster. A year in pop is like many years in poetry.”
我们谈论了几个热点话题，都是伯特感兴趣的领域，从诗歌到流行音乐，从女装反串到科幻小说，最终引出了典型伯特式的对话。伯特说，“这部电视剧中的外星人和我们一样，只是他们的生活节奏更快，对他们来说一切都在加速前进。这就像流行乐坛，音乐潮流迅速出现，新乐队快速走红，很快就消失得无影无踪。在流行音乐圈待上一年，就像在诗歌界待了很多年。”
Burt is like the aliens: his life is sped up, too. When he was 12, he wrote a paper on Milton’s “Lycidas”; next year, his third full-length book of poems will be published, as well as a major anthology of which he is co-editor. When I asked him why he loves teaching, his answer helped explain his criticism, and everything that he does. “I want students to develop their own tastes, to become more themselves, to become more thoughtful and more appreciative,” he began, and continued in that noble vein, before concluding with what could be a fanboy mantra: “And of course,” he said, “I want them to like what I like.”
伯特就像是外星人：他的人生也加快了脚步。在12岁的时候，他就撰文评价了弥尔顿的诗《利西达斯》(Lycidas)；明年，他将出版第三本长篇诗集，他担任共同编辑的重要选集也将问世。当我问他为什么热爱教学时，他的回答有助于解释他的批评理论，以及他所作的每件事情。“我希望学生培养自己的品味，变得更加自我、更会思考、更懂得欣赏，”他开创并延续了这种崇高的精神，最后用狂热粉丝的口头禅作为结束语，“当然，我想让他们赞同我的喜好。”