On weekends, Guillaume Rosquin browses the shelves of local bookstores in Lyon, France. He enjoys peppering the staff with questions about what he should be reading next. But his visits, he says, are also a protest against the growing power of Amazon. He is bothered by the way the American online retailer treats its warehouse employees.
周末的时候，纪尧姆·罗斯奎(Guillaume Rosquin)通常会在法国里昂的本地小书店里浏览架上的书。他享受这种一边读书，一边琢磨着自己接下来该读哪本书的感觉。不过，他说，他的书店之行，同时亦是对亚马逊(Amazon)日渐壮大的实力的一种抗议。这家美国网络零售商对待自家仓库管理员的方式让他恼火。
Still, as with millions of other Europeans, there is a limit to how much he will protest.
然而，和其他数百万欧洲人一样，他的抗议程度是有限的。
“It depends on the price,” said Mr. Rosquin, 49, who acknowledged that he was planning to buy a $400 BlackBerry smartphone on Amazon because the handset was not yet available on rival French websites. “If you can get something for half-price at Amazon, you may put your issues with their working conditions aside.”
49岁的罗斯奎说，“这要看价格。”他承认自己打算在亚马逊网站上购买一款标价400美元（约合2400元人民币）的黑莓(BlackBerry)手机，因为在和亚马逊为竞争对手的法国网站上，还无法买到这款手机。“如果你能花一半价钱从亚马逊上买到一件东西，你也许会把他们的劳工状况问题搁到一边去。”
Across Europe, love — or at least acceptance — often wins out in the love-hate relationship with American tech companies like Amazon, Facebook and Google. Despite their often vocal criticism of these behemoths, people in the region are some of the most active and loyal users of American social networks, search engines and e-commerce websites. They are often even more hooked on the services than Americans are.
纵观欧洲各地，人们与亚马逊、Facebook和谷歌(Google)等美国科技公司形成了爱恨交织的关系，不过，往往还是爱占了上风，或者人们至少会接受这些公司。虽然本地区的民众常常在嘴上批评这些庞然大物，可他们其实是美国社交网络、搜索引擎和电子商务网站最活跃、最忠实的一部分用户。他们甚至常常比美国人更迷恋这些服务。
Google now has an 85 percent market share for search in the region’s five largest economies, including Britain, France and Germany, compared with less than 80 percent in 2009, according to the research company comScore. Google’s share of the American market stands at roughly 65 percent.
根据调查公司comScore的数据，目前，谷歌的搜索引擎服务在欧洲最大的五个经济体中拥有85%的市场份额，这其中包括了英国、法国和德国，与此相比，2009年谷歌在该市场份额还不到80%。在美国搜索市场，谷歌的份额大约为65%。
Facebook — the target of several government investigations for its tax practices in Europe — also has more than doubled its number of European users, to over 150 million, in the last five years, and the social network’s European user numbers now outpace American figures, according to the social media research company eMarketer.
因税务问题成为欧洲几国政府调查对象的Facebook，过去五年在这里的用户也翻了一番以上，达到了逾1500万，根据社交媒体调查公司eMarketer的数据，该社交媒体的欧洲用户数现在已经超过了在美国的用户数。
American tech companies operate seven of the 10 most visited websites in Europe, according to comScore statistics. Only Yandex and Mail.ru, a Russian search engine and an email site, and Axel Springer, the German publisher of Die Welt and Bild, make the list.
根据comScore的数据，欧洲当地点击量居前十的网站中，有七个是美国科技公司经营的。只有三家欧洲公司跻身十强榜单，它们是俄罗斯搜索引擎Yandex和电子邮件服务网站Mail.ru，以及出版公司阿克赛尔斯普林格(Axel Springer)，该公司是《图片报》(Bild)和《世界报》(Die Welt)的发行商。
Nonetheless, from Spain to Sweden, many of Europe’s millions of Internet users regularly complain about the dominance of American tech companies, particularly about how their data is used and shared. It also leaves them wondering why so few homegrown tech companies are globally competitive.
尽管如此，从西班牙到瑞典，在数百万欧洲用户中，有许多人常常对美国科技公司的统治地位抱有怨言，他们尤其爱埋怨说，自己的数据被利用、被共享了。这种支配地位还让他们感到疑惑，为什么本土科技公司很少具有国际竞争力？
For many Europeans, the likes of Twitter and Amazon hold too much information about what people do online. That wariness has only grown stronger after the revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, about American intelligence agencies’ spying activities and perceived easy access to the world’s tech infrastructure.
许多欧洲人觉得，像Twitter和亚马逊这样的公司掌握了过多的用户网上行为信息。等到美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)披露了本国情报机构的间谍活动，并把进入全球技术基础设施说成是易如反掌后，这种担忧更是有增无减。
In some ways, Europeans are pushing back.
欧洲人正在某些方面发起反击。
Last month, Google started removing some links to online search results after Europe’s highest court ruled that the company had to give people the right to request that information be taken down.
上个月，欧洲最高法院做出裁决，要求谷歌必须要保障用户有提出消除信息记录要求的权利，谷歌随后开始删除一些和网上搜索有关的链接。
And the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, is finishing new rules — tougher than those currently in force in the United States — intended to strengthen the region’s privacy protections for online data.
欧盟执行机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)的新规定即将完成——它比美国目前执行的规定更严格——该规定的目的是加强本地区对网络数据隐私的保护。
But leave the clutches of the services they deride? No.
可是，要摆脱他们在嘲笑的一系列服务的控制？那答案肯定是不。
For Stuart Turnbull, 42, a writer who lives two hours north of Edinburgh, a reliance on American tech companies has become the cost of doing business.
在42岁的斯图尔特·特恩布尔(Stuart Turnbull)看来，对美国科技公司的依赖已经成为一种业务成本，他是一名作家，家住爱丁堡以北，距爱丁堡有两小时车程。
Mr. Turnbull once tried to shut down his Facebook account after realizing that he was spending too much time sharing posts and comments. Yet as he looked to build contacts with other writers and editors around the world, Mr. Turnbull, who works from a home office in the small town of Crieff, soon changed his mind. He even opened a second Facebook account dedicated to his literary career.
在认识到自己花了太多时间分享帖子和评论后，特恩布尔曾一度尝试关闭自己的Facebook账户。然而，当他指望和全球其他作家和编辑建立联系时，在位于小城克里夫的家庭办公室工作的特恩布尔迅速改变了想法。他甚至在Facebook上开设了第二个账户，专门用来支撑他的文学事业。
While he remains concerned about how tech companies use his online data, the ability to tap into the global networks offered by the likes of Facebook and Twitter is too enticing a prospect to turn down.
他依然担忧有多少家科技公司在使用他的网络数据，然而，你可以用Facebook和Twitter等类似公司提供的技术挖掘全球网络，其中的前景太诱人，让人无法拒绝。
“I accept that my data may be mined,” said Mr. Turnbull, who says he is more worried about companies’ potentially abusing his information than about governments’ getting access to his online data. “It’s the price you pay for using these so-called free services.”
“我接受了我的数据也许被挖掘的现实，”特恩布尔说，他说和被政府窃取自己的网上数据相比，他更担忧的，是这些公司可能会滥用他的信息。“这是你为使用所谓的免费服务而付出的代价。”
In many ways, the American companies face little competition. For example, several regional e-commerce sites like the British fashion company ASOS have challenged Amazon but have yet to compete with the breadth of products — and discounts — offered by the American company.
在许多方面，美国公司面临的竞争实在太少。例如，类似英国时尚公司ASOS这样的地区电子商务网站对亚马逊发起了挑战，不过，在商品的种类覆盖——以及折扣上——它还无法和美国公司提供的产品竞争。
European social networks, particularly in Germany, once dominated online communication but gradually fell out of favor as Facebook’s global reach grew.
欧洲社交网络一度在网络交流中占主导地位，这一点在德国尤其明显，不过，随着Facebook在全球市场的触角越伸越长，这些网络逐渐地失宠了。
Government efforts, including a French plan to create a state-backed search engine to compete with Google, have also failed to take off.
政府行为也未能奏效，其中包括法国提出的一个计划，目标是创立一个由国家支持的搜索引擎来对抗谷歌。
But not every European has succumbed to the dominance of the American tech companies.
不过，并非所有的欧洲人都对美国技术公司的统治地位心服口服。
Six months ago, Russell Albert, a 43-year-old British software engineer, started thinking that the ads displayed next to his Google search results were too closely based on his Internet search history. He switched to using smaller, lesser-known search engines and began looking for alternatives to other Google products, like its popular email service.
六个月前，43岁的英国软件工程师拉塞尔·艾伯特(Russell Albert)开始琢磨，在谷歌搜索结果旁展示的广告太依赖他的网络搜索历史了。他转而使用了规模比较小、较不知名的搜索引擎，并开始寻找谷歌其他产品的替代品，比如颇受欢迎的谷歌邮件产品。
Surfing the web may not be as easy with these other services, Mr. Albert said, but he is still glad he switched. “I hated being completely Googled up,” he said. “I decided that I didn’t want to have all my eggs in just one basket.”
艾伯特说，用其他产品浏览网页也许不那么容易，不过他依然对自己切换到其他产品感到高兴。“我痛恨完全被捆在谷歌上。我想好了，绝不能把所有鸡蛋都放在一个篮子里。”
After Facebook’s purchase of the messaging service WhatsApp, rumors abounded that European users of the messaging service would flee, fearing that Facebook would gain access to their personal information despite reassurances from the company that it would keep WhatsApp user data separate.
自从Facebook收购了即时通讯应用WhatsApp，有关该应用的欧洲用户会就此放弃WhatsApp的传言就甚嚣尘上，传言说这是因为用户会担忧Facebook窃取他们的个人信息，尽管该公司已再三保证，会保持WhatsApp用户数据的独立性。
Yet six months after the announcement of the deal, WhatsApp says its user numbers have increased to half a billion — many of them Europeans.
然而，就在交易宣布六个月之后，WhatsApp表示其用户数已经增加到了5亿——其中的许多用户是欧洲人。