There was a moment in the 1980s when many fashionable Manhattanites decorated their apartments like country houses, furnishing them with patchwork quilts, dried flowers and weathered pie safes. The look was second nature to Mary Randolph Carter, the Ralph Lauren executive who codified it in her 1988 design and entertaining book, “American Family Style,” which was photographed at her Upper East Side apartment as well as at Muskettoe Pointe Farm, her parents’ home in Virginia, and elsewhere.
在20世纪80年代，有一段时间，许多曼哈顿潮人会把公寓装修得像乡村别墅，他们会在家里布置拼布被、干花和食品橱。拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)的高管玛丽·伦道夫·卡特(Mary Randolph Carter)对于这样的装潢风格已经习惯成自然。为此，她在1988年推出了自己的论著——一部设计与消遣读物，书名为《美式家居风格》(American Family Style)。书中收录了许多照片，这些照片的拍摄地点包括：卡特在上东城的公寓，她父母在弗吉尼亚的住处Muskettoe Pointe Farm等等。
It’s a trend Ms. Carter never abandoned. Today, the two-bedroom apartment in a prewar doorman building on Madison Avenue, a stone’s throw from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, resembles a cozy, cluttered farmhouse — a hodgepodge of good antiques, thrift shop paintings, collectible folk art, garage sale gewgaws and family photos.
卡特从未背弃过这样的装潢潮流。她的两室公寓位于麦迪逊大道，坐落在一座设有门卫的、战前风格的建筑中，距离大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)只有一箭之地。如今，她的公寓就像一座舒适的农舍，里面散乱地放置着各种各样的物什，包括上乘的古董、从旧货店里淘来的画作、具有收藏价值的民间艺术品、从车库售物淘来的廉价饰物、家庭照片。
“It’s the scrapbook of our lives,” said Ms. Carter, who is 68. She moved here about 40 years ago with her husband, Howard Berg, now a retired advertising executive, when she was pregnant with their first son, Carter Berg, who took the photographs in her most recent lifestyle book, “Never Stop to Think ... Do I Have a Place for This?” (Rizzoli), which celebrates the homes of similarly obsessed collectors.
“这是我们生活的集锦簿。”卡特表示。卡特现年68岁，大约40年前，她和丈夫、现已退休的广告公司高管霍华德·伯格(Howard Berg)搬到了这里，当时她怀着两人的第一个儿子卡特·伯格(Carter Berg)。卡特·伯格为她最新推出的生活类书籍《Never Stop to Think ... Do I Have a Place for This?》[里佐利出版社(Rizzoli)]担任了摄影师。书中展示了一些收藏癖同好的住宅。
Paradoxically, Ms. Carter’s sentimental attachment to things is based on her awareness that they are ephemeral. “When I was 16, my family’s house burned to the ground,” she said. “It was a sandbox of ashes. All the things — the books, the pictures — that we thought defined our lives were gone. I know that things are replaceable, but people are not.”
矛盾的是，卡特之所以对物品具有情感依赖，恰恰是因为她知道，物品不是永恒的。“我16岁的时候，我家的房子被烧毁了，”她说，“整座房子变成了装满灰烬的沙盒。所有东西——包括书本和照片——都没了。对我们来说，这些都是定义了家庭生活的东西。从那以后，我就知道，物品是可以替代的，而人不是。”
Her parents rallied their nine children to renovate and furnish their next home, a 17th-century fixer-upper that “was overgrown with honeysuckle and had dead cats in the attic.” Ms. Carter loved shopping for new old things that would provide a sense of the familiar. “We filled the house with borrowed ancestors because our own family pictures were gone,” she said. “Restoring that house restored us.”
她的父母召集了家里的九个孩子来装修和布置新家。新家是一座始建于17世纪的待修缮房屋，里面“长满了忍冬，阁楼里还有死猫。”卡特喜欢购买和旧物品非常相像的新物品，它们能给人带来亲切感。“我们在屋子里放满了别人的祖先像，因为我们自己的家庭照片都没了，”她说，“我们在修缮那座房子的同时，也治愈了自己。”
Ms. Carter treasures anything that is reminiscent of her childhood. “One of the first purchases Howard and I made together was a large tavern bench that is still in the front hall,” she said. “Wouldn’t you know? My mother had two just like it.”
只要是能让她回想起童年时光的物品，卡特都倍加珍惜。“我跟霍华德最早买的家具之一，就是一张很大的酒馆长凳，现在它还放在前厅里，”她说，“你知道吗？我妈有两张长凳跟这个一模一样。”
In the living room, a big step-back hutch is filled with pewter dishes that her parents gave them as a wedding present. “We grew up eating on pewter the way other people used paper plates,” she said. This extended to drinking milk out of handleless “Jefferson cups with our names on them. We threw them in the dishwasher and let them get tarnished.”
在客厅，一个断层式大橱柜里摆满了锡镴盘，那是卡特的父母给她的嫁妆。“从小到大，我们吃东西用的都是锡镴盘，跟其他人用纸盘是一个道理，”她说。同样，她们喝牛奶用的杯子也是无手把的“杰斐逊杯（Jefferson cups，由美国前总统托马斯·杰斐逊设计的一款金属杯子，上面可以刻字，作为送礼佳品——译注），上面刻着我们的名字。我们把它们丢进洗碗机，让它们失去光泽。”
She cherishes the headboard that her father built her out of a wide weathered floorboard secured by two skinny trap stakes, which are driftwood relics of the pine poles that fishermen use to secure their nets in the mud of the Rappahannock River near her childhood home. “The room divider in the living room is made of trap stakes, too,” she said.
她很珍惜父亲给她做的床头板。床头板由一块宽大的旧地板制成，由两根细长的标桩固定。小时候，她家附近就是拉帕汉诺克河(Rappahannock River)，那里的渔民会把松木桩插在淤泥里，用来固定渔网。她父亲将河水冲走的松木桩浮木捡回来，制成了标桩。“客厅里的屏风也是用标桩制成的。”她说。
Festooned with carved wooden fish, the divider allowed Ms. Carter to create an office/library by the windows without cutting off the light to the living room and foyer. Books are piled perilously on the floor between two wooden lawn chairs with nicknames — the green “Gumby chair” that reminds her of the clay animation figure and the “Jasper Johns chair” that she found in a hotel in Nags Head, N.C., where the painter used to vacation.
屏风上饰有木雕鱼。有了屏风，卡特就可以在窗边辟出一块地方，作为办公间/书房，而且这样做不会影响客厅和门厅的采光。地上堆着很多书，看起来随时要倒。书堆两边分别放着一把木制的草坪椅。它们都有外号，绿色的那把叫做“冈比椅”(Gumby chair) ，它让卡特想起了那个粘土动画人物冈比；另一把叫做“贾斯培·琼斯椅”（Jasper Johns chair，贾斯培·琼斯是美国画家、雕刻家和版画家——译注），那是卡特在北卡罗来纳州纳格斯黑德(Nags Head)的一家酒店找到的，画家琼斯曾经在那里度假。
Her improvisational, if not heretical, approach to decorating is exemplified by the windows. “We used to have these wonderful casement windows, and when they replaced them with these modern efficient ones I was hysterical,” she said. “So I got some black masking tape and made mullions on them. Then I started buying antique shutters and leaning them against the windows — anything to camouflage them.”
她在窗户的设计上展现了即兴创作的才能（如果不算是旁门左道的话）。“我们以前的窗户挺好的，是双扇窗，后来换成了高能效的现代窗户，我一下子变得特别兴奋，”她说，“我找来一些黑胶带，在窗户上面做了直棂，然后开始买老式的百叶窗，把它们靠在窗户上——只要是有伪装效果的东西都可以用上。”
Ms. Carter likens herself to folk artists. “They created things on a whim with a sense of freedom and naïveté,” she said. “That is what I have always loved and tried to share in my books. I give permission to people to fall in love with the wackiest things, to find the worth in the worthless.”
卡特将自己比作民间艺术家。“他们秉承着自由和纯真的本色，凭借一闪之念随性创作，”她说，“这是我一直喜欢的，也是我试图在书中传达的信息。我允许人们爱上最古怪的事物，在毫无价值的东西中发现价值。”
Dressed in faded bluejeans, well-worn Frye boots and a vintage cowgirl vest, Ms. Carter comes across as a rebellious over-achiever. She arrived in New York in 1967 as part of Mademoiselle magazine’s guest editorship program, whose most famous alumna was the poet Sylvia Plath.
卡特穿着褪色的蓝色牛仔裤、很旧的弗莱(Frye)靴、老式的牛仔马甲。她看起来是个大器早成的人。1967年，她来到纽约，参加时尚杂志《Mademoiselle》的客座编辑项目，在曾经参与该项目的人当中，最出名的要属诗人希薇亚·普拉斯(Sylvia Plath)。
“It was my ticket in, my golden passport,” said Ms. Carter, who parlayed the internship into a full-time job as a promotional copywriter. She eventually transferred to the editorial department. “I was the beauty editor who never wore makeup!”
“对我来说，这是金牌通行证中的入场券，”卡特说，实习转正后，她成为了广告文字撰稿人，后来调到了编辑部。“我是个从不化妆的美容编辑。”
It was her idiosyncratic personal style — and the portfolio of stories she produced later as the creative director of Self magazine — that attracted the attention of Ralph Lauren, who hired her in 1988 as his vice president of advertising for Polo Ralph Lauren. “Ralph used to call me his country girl,” she said. “I lived his spirit.” These days she is a senior executive at the renamed Ralph Lauren Corporation.
卡特凭借与众不同的个人风格——以及她在《悦己》(Self)担任创意总监期间创作的文章——吸引了拉夫·劳伦的注意。1988年，拉夫劳伦任命卡特为拉夫·劳伦马球(Polo Ralph Lauren)的副总裁，负责广告事务。“拉夫曾经把我称为他的乡下姑娘，”她说，“我身上有他的精神。”如今，她在已更名的拉夫·劳伦公司(Ralph Lauren Corporation)担任高管。
Even as Ms. Carter oversaw the creation of idealized images depicting sophisticated lives during the week, she spent weekends going to yard sales and flea markets to decorate her apartment and her country house upstate. But the antiques she once collected — samplers and painted furniture — were getting expensive and hard to find. Then she ducked into a rummage shop in Millerton, N.Y. “That’s where I had my junk epiphany,” she said. “I came out with shopping bags of stuff for $25. That was fun.”
尽管卡特在平日里谱写的是精致生活的理想化图景，到了周末，她就会去逛庭院售物和跳蚤市场，以装饰她的公寓和乡村别墅。不过，她曾经收藏的古董——刺绣样品和上漆家具——已经变得昂贵起来，而且难得一见。后来，她扎进了纽约州米勒顿(Millerton)的一家旧货店。“在那里，我对淘旧货有了新的感悟，”她说，“我走出商店的时候，购物袋里装着25美元（约合人民币155元）的东西。那次购物挺好玩的。”