WASHINGTON — The Secret Service on Tuesday night arrested a man suspected of shooting a pastor in Idaho after the man traveled here and threw unidentified objects over the White House fence, a spokesman for the Secret Service said in a statement.
华盛顿——美国特勤局(Secret Service)发言人在声明中称，周二晚间，特勤局逮捕了一名涉嫌开枪射击爱达荷州牧师的男子。该男子到达华盛顿后，曾往白宫围栏内投掷不明物体。
Ths suspect, Kyle A. Odom, was arrested by uniformed officers for the Secret Service on the south side of the White House complex. Officials said the material thrown over the fence had been determined to be nonhazardous.
犯罪嫌疑人名为凯尔·奥多姆(Kyle A. Odom)，被特勤局警官在白宫建筑群南侧逮捕。官方证实，被扔入围栏的物品是非危险品。
Officials quickly learned that Mr. Odom was accused by Idaho law enforcement officials of attempted murder in the shooting of the Rev. Tim Remington, who was shot six times Sunday outside his church in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho.
当局很快获悉，爱达荷州执法当局指控奥多姆企图枪杀蒂姆·雷明顿牧师(Rev. Tim Remington)。周六，该牧师在爱达荷州科达伦市(Coeur d’Alene)自己的教堂外身中六枪。
“Odom was arrested on the outstanding warrant, and he was transported to the Metropolitan Police Department for processing,” the Secret Service said in a statement. “The U.S. Secret Service, through its Washington Field Office and Spokane Resident Office, is coordinating with the Coeur d’Alene Police Department.”
“根据有效通缉令，奥多姆被逮捕，他被送往大都会警察局(Metropolitan Police Department)完成相应程序。”特勤局在声明中表示，“通过华盛顿特勤处和斯波坎市常驻办公室，美国特勤局正在和科达伦市警方进行协调。”
Mr. Remington, who on Saturday led a prayer at a campaign rally for Senator Ted Cruz, the Republican presidential candidate, was recovering at a hospital on Tuesday and had regained consciousness, The Associated Press reported.
根据美联社(The Associated Press)的报道，周六当日，雷明顿牧师组织祈祷会，为共和党大选参选人特德·克鲁兹造势。周二时，牧师在医院休养，此前已经恢复了意识。
After the shooting, the A.P. reported, several news outlets received letters purporting to be from Mr. Odom that contained references to President Obama, members of Congress, members of the Israeli government and an official at the church with which Mr. Remington is associated.
美联社报道，在枪击发生后，许多新闻媒体收到了据称是来自奥多姆的信，其中提及总统奥巴马、国会成员、以色列政府人士，以及和雷明顿牧师有关联的一个教会的高级成员。
The A.P. said Mr. Odom is a former Marine who has a history of mental illness. The news service said that he served in the Marines from 2006 to 2010 and had received an Iraq Campaign medal and other awards. According to the A.P., Mr. Odom was able to board a plane in Boise despite the fact that the authorities in Idaho had issued a warrant for his arrest after the shooting.
美联社称，奥多姆是一名前海军陆战队成员，有精神疾病史。新闻表示，在2006年至2010年期间，奥多姆在海军陆战队服役，并曾获得伊拉克参战奖章(Iraq Campaign Medal)和其他奖项。新闻表示，尽管爱达荷当局在枪击发生后，已经发布了对他的通缉令，奥多姆仍能在该州首府博伊西市登上飞机。
“I think everyone can breathe a good sigh of relief that at least this part of the case has come to a conclusion,” Lee White, the police chief in Coeur d’Alene, told The A.P.
“我觉得所有人都能大松一口气，至少该案这部分已经告一段落。” 科达伦市警察局长李·怀特(Lee White)向美联社表示。