New chief executive, new designer.
新首席执行官，新设计师。
The French luxury fashion house Hermès on Thursday named Nadège Vanhee-Cybulski, 36, artistic director of women’s wear. Her appointment is the first big management move by Axel Dumas, a sixth-generation member of the Hermès family, which controls the closely held stock. He became chief executive in February.
周四，法国奢侈时装公司爱马仕(Hermès)任命36岁的纳德杰·范内-齐布尔斯基(Nadège Vanhee-Cybulski)为其女装艺术总监。这是今年2月份就任首席执行官的阿克塞尔·杜马(Axel Dumas)的第一个重大管理行动。他是爱马仕家族的第六代成员，爱马仕家族控制着这家不公开招股公司。
Ms. Vanhee-Cybulski takes over from Christophe Lemaire, who had been the women’s wear artistic director since 2010, and who continued to design his eponymous brand while at the house. Hermès announced this week that Mr. Lemaire was leaving to concentrate on that line.
范内-齐布尔斯基是从克里斯托弗·勒梅尔(Christophe Lemaire)手中接过这个职位的，勒梅尔自2010年起担任爱马仕的女装艺术总监，同时继续设计自己的同名品牌。爱马仕本周宣布勒梅尔将离开专注于自己的品牌。
The appointment is apparent follow-through on a statement that Mr. Dumas made in June at the annual shareholders’ meeting, that ready-to-wear would be among the major areas of expansion for the brand.
这项任命显然是在贯彻杜马今年6月在年度股东大会上做出的声明，他说成衣将是该品牌扩张的主要领域之一。
Though a fashion world insider, Ms. Vanhee-Cybulski is relatively unknown outside. She had been design director of the fast-growing American brand the Row since 2011, and before that worked behind the scenes for Céline and Maison Martin Margiela, all brands known for understated luxury.
范内-齐布尔斯基虽然是服装界的业内人士，但是圈外对她知之甚少。她从2011年起担任快速发展的美国品牌The Row的设计总监，之前是赛琳(Céline)和马丁·马吉拉时装屋(Maison Martin Margiela)的幕后设计师，这些品牌皆以低调奢华闻名。
“We welcome the arrival of Nadège,” Mr. Dumas said in a statement. “Her talent and her creative track record will be great assets in the continued development of women’s ready-to-wear. She will devote herself full-time to our house.”
“我们欢迎纳德杰的到来，”杜马在声明中说，“她的才华和过去的创作成就对我们女装成衣的继续发展来说是巨大财富。她将专心致志为我们公司服务。”
Hermès’s shares were down 0.8 percent, to 265 euros, or $356.80, on Thursday.
周四，爱马仕的股价下跌了0.8%，降至265欧元，约合356.80美元。
That Mr. Dumas found it important to underscore Ms. Vanhee-Cybulski’s working only for Hermès signals a growing rift in the fashion world between companies that seek, given the current demand for four or more collections a year, full commitment from a designer, and those that allow a designer to split time between brands.
杜马觉得强调范内-齐布尔斯基只为爱马仕工作很重要，这表明时装界的两类公司之间的分歧越来越大：一类公司要求设计师全身心投入，因为目前一般要求设计师一年设计四个或更多系列；另一类公司允许设计师兼顾多个品牌。
LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, for example, agreed to allow Raf Simons to be artistic director of Christian Dior Couture while maintaining his eponymous men’s wear brand; it also agreed to help Jonathan Anderson grow his eponymous brand when naming him creative director of Loewe.
例如，路威酩轩(LVMH)集团允许拉夫·西蒙斯(Raf Simons)在担任迪奥(Dior)的艺术总监的同时兼顾自己的同名男装品牌；它还在任命乔纳森·安德森(Jonathan Anderson)担任罗意威(Loewe)的创意总监时同意帮助他扩张自己的同名品牌。
Kering allowed Alexander Wang to continue to design for his eponymous house while acting as creative director of their brand Balenciaga, and entered into a joint venture last year with Tomas Maier, the longtime creative director of their brand Bottega Veneta, to support his eponymous brand.
开云集团(Kering)允许王大仁(Alexander Wang)在担任巴黎世家(Balenciaga)的创意总监的同时继续为自己的同名服装公司做设计；去年该集团和宝缇嘉(Bottega)的长期创意总监的托马斯·迈耶(Tomas Maier)组建了一个合资公司，以支持他的同名品牌。
The Hermès decision runs counter, but it is in keeping with the fact that Hermès has long had a full-time in-house designer of men’s ready-to-wear clothing, Véronique Nichanian.
爱马仕的决定正好相反，不过这个决定符合爱马仕的一贯作风——它的男装成衣长期以来都是由该公司的全职设计师韦罗妮克·尼沙尼安(Véronique Nichanian)执掌的。
Ms. Vanhee-Cybulski’s appointment comes just a week after Hermès reported revenue of 1.9 billion euros, or $2.6 billion, for this year’s first half, which it said was an increase of 12 percent at constant exchange rates over the first half of 2013.
一周前，爱马仕刚公布了上半年的业绩，总收入为19亿欧元，约合26亿美元，据说以恒定汇率计算的话，比2013年上半年增长了12%。
Ready-to-wear clothing and related fashion accessories were up 16 percent, a higher growth rate than leather goods or silks, two of Hermès’s traditional strongholds. The company plans to report full financial results for the period next month.
成衣和配饰增长了16%，高于皮具和丝绸的增长。皮具和丝绸是爱马仕的两个传统支柱。该公司计划下个月公布这一时期的完整金融数据。
Ms. Vanhee-Cybulski will become the first woman to lead the brand’s women’s ready-to-wear business. Before Mr. Lemaire’s arrival, Hermès’s women’s wear was designed by Jean Paul Gaultier and, before him, Martin Margiela — both of whom also maintained their own brands simultaneously. Before that, in the mid-1990s and earlier, it was created by an internal team.
范内-齐布尔斯基将成为第一个领导该品牌女装成衣的女人。在勒梅尔之前，爱马仕的女装是由让·保罗·高缇耶(Jean Paul Gaultier)设计的，在他之前是马丁·马吉拉(Martin Margiela)——这两位设计师就任期间都同时经营自己的品牌。再往前，在20世纪90年代中期以及之前，它是由一个内部团队设计的。