Like many other primary care doctors, I sometimes sense the shadow of depression hovering at the edges of the exam room. I am haunted by one mother with severe postnatal depression. Years ago, I took proper care of the baby, but I missed the mother's distress, as did everyone else.
与许多基层医生一样，我有时会在检查室周边察觉到这里被抑郁的阴影笼罩。我时常会想起一位患有严重产后抑郁的母亲。那是几年前，我把宝宝照顾得不错，却和所有其他人一样，对母亲的压力浑然不觉。
Nowadays it's increasingly clear that pediatricians, obstetrician-gynecologists and internists must be more alert. Research into postnatal depression in particular has underscored the importance of checking up on parents' mental health in the first months of a baby's life.
现在已经越来越明确，儿科、妇产科和内科医生们都必须对父母的抑郁问题提高警惕。对产后抑郁进行的研究都在强调指出：在婴儿出生的第一个月里，检查父母的精神健康是很重要的。
But a parent's depression, it turns out, can be linked to all kinds of problems, even in the lives of older children.
事实还表明，父母的抑郁还会引起各种问题，甚至会对较大孩子的生活产生影响。
"Depression is an illness that feeds upon itself," said Dr. William Beardslee, professor of child psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, who has spent his career studying depression in children and developing family interventions. "Very often people who are depressed don't seek the care they need."
“抑郁是一种能自行发展壮大的疾病。”威廉·比尔兹利医生(William Beardslee)说。他是哈佛医学院儿童精神病学教授，专业领域是研究儿童抑郁症并进行家庭干预，“常见的情况是，抑郁的人并不会主动寻求需要的关怀。”
In 2009, the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council issued a report, "Depression in Parents, Parenting, and Children," that summarized a large and growing body of research on the ways that parental depression can affect how people take care of their children, and how those children fare.
2009年，美国国家科学委员会和医学院(Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council)发布了一篇名为《父母的抑郁、教养和儿童》(Depression in Parents, Parenting, and Children)的报告，文章总结了大量且还在增多的研究，探讨父母的抑郁会如何影响其照顾自己孩子的方式，以及这些孩子的遭遇。
One in five Americans will suffer from depression at some point, noted Dr. Beardslee, who was on the committee that issued the report. "Untreated, unrecognized parental depression can lead to negative consequences for kids," he said, ranging from poor school performance to increased visits to the emergency room to poorer peer relationships and adolescent depression.
比尔兹利医生当时是发布报告的委员会成员，他说，有五分之一的美国人会在生活的某个阶段患上抑郁。“未经治疗、未被发现的父母抑郁会对孩子造成负面影响，”他说，这些负面影响包括在校表现欠佳、送院急诊次数增多、同伴关系较差，以及青春期抑郁。
Moreover, there is plenty of evidence that when depressed parents get treatment and help with their parenting, families are much better off.
另外，大量证据表明，一旦抑郁的父母得到治疗并改进教养方法，家庭情况能得到改善。
Depression is certainly treatable, said Dr. Mary Jane England, a psychiatrist and professor of health policy and management at Boston University School of Public Health, who led the Institute of Medicine committee.
精神科医生玛丽·珍·英格兰(Mary Jane England)认为抑郁当然是可以治疗的，她是波士顿大学公共卫生学院(Boston University School of Public Health)的卫生政策与管理学教授，领导着医学委员会。
But, she added, "because of stigma and lack of training of some of our primary care practitioners, we don't pick it up."
但是，她也补充道：“因为得抑郁症被人当作是不光彩的事情，我们的某些基层执业医生又缺乏相关培训，有些病情因此没能发现。”
Depression damages the interactions between parents and children, and disrupts family routines and rituals. Children with a depressed parent are themselves more likely to manifest symptoms of depression, research shows, along with other psychiatric problems and behavior issues. They are more likely to make visits to the emergency room and more likely to be injured.
抑郁毁了父母与孩子之间的互动，也扰乱家庭日常生活和程序。研究表明，患抑郁症的父母，其子女也更容易显现抑郁的症状，并出现其他精神问题和行为问题。他们去急诊室就医的频率更高，也更容易受伤。
A depressed parent may have trouble following a plan of preventive care if a child has a medical problem like asthma. But higher rates of depression in parents whose children have chronic medical problems may also reflect the stress of dealing with those problems, especially for psychologically vulnerable parents.
如果子女有像哮喘这样的健康问题，患抑郁症的父母可能难以系统地干预子女的预防保健方案。患慢性病的儿童中，父母抑郁的比例更高，这一事实可能也反映了处理这些健康问题的压力，对那些心理脆弱的父母来说尤其如此。
Depression may become part of a vicious cycle in these families: An overwhelmed and depressed parent is less able to follow a complex medical regimen, and a child ends up in the emergency room or the hospital, creating more pressure and more stress for the family.
抑郁会在家庭里形成恶性循环：不堪重负而又心理抑郁的父母更加无法遵循复杂的医疗方案，孩子最终被送往急诊室或住院，给家庭带来更多压力和紧张气氛。
"There is a high burden of maternal depression, anxiety," among mothers bringing children to an emergency room, said Dr. Jacqueline M. Grupp-Phelan, a pediatric emergency room specialist at Cincinnati Children's Hospital. "It influences their own perception of how well they can deal with their kids' problems."
“母亲抑郁、焦虑会给她们带来非常沉重的负担，”杰奎琳·M·克虏伯-费伦医生(Jacqueline M. Grupp-Phelan)站在满是带孩子来看病的母亲的急诊室里说。她是辛辛那提儿童医院(Cincinnati Children’s Hospital)的儿科急诊室专科医生。“这会影响她们对自己处理孩子问题能力的判断。”
It's also become clear that there may be genetic propensities to depression. Its appearance in parent and child may in part reflect inherited vulnerabilities.
同时也有证据表明，抑郁可能有遗传倾向。它在父母和孩子身上的表现部分反映了遗传易感性。
And all of that reaffirms how critical it is for primary care doctors to ask the right questions and offer diagnosis without stigma.
所有这一切都在重申，基层医生问出那些恰当的问题并提供不会让病人感到耻辱的诊断，这一点是多么重要。
"Moms appreciate being asked," said Dr. Grupp-Phelan, who has done research on the acceptability of mental health screening. "It may be the only time they've been asked about their depression."
“妈妈们在被问及这些问题时，会非常感激大夫，这可能是她们被问到抑郁相关问题的唯一机会，”克虏伯-费伦医生已经完成了精神健康筛查接受度的研究，她这样说。
I often find myself urging mothers to pay more attention to their own medical problems and mental health. Pediatric colleagues tell stories of depressed parents who break down and cry during a child's visit, but then say they're too busy taking care of the family to get help for themselves.
我常常督促妈妈们多注意自己的健康问题和精神状况。儿科的同事们描述了接诊儿童时父母崩溃痛哭的故事，但随即这些父母往往会说他们要忙着照顾家庭，无暇考虑自己的问题。
I don't love the "do it for your child's sake" argument; I worry it suggests that the parent isn't important in her own right. But to be honest, I make that argument anyway, because it works.
我不喜欢“就是为了你的孩子，你也应该如何如何去做”这种说法；我担心它暗示父母自身的权利并不重要。但实话实说，我也会这么讲，因为它管用。
"They are open to doing something about their own issues because it could help their kid, and that's a very strong hook for mothers," Dr. Grupp-Phelan said. And when the "doing something" includes a focus on the whole family, those routines and rituals and routines can be rebuilt, and there's plenty of research to show that children are resilient.
“如果我们说，做这些事跟她们自己有关，但同时对孩子也有用，母亲们听到后会非常动心，这对她们是极大的诱惑。”克虏伯-费伦医生说。如果说“做这些事”包括让家长关注到全家人，那么，他们就可以重新建立家庭日常生活和程序，而大量研究表明，孩子们也有望完全恢复正常。
So if parents are open to being asked, and if we know that identifying depression has important benefits for our patients and their parents, why aren't we better at asking?
所以，如果为人父母者愿意面对医生的问题，如果我们知道抑郁的确诊对小患者及其父母都有重要意义，我们为什么不能更好地去提问？
As a pediatrician, I tend to focus on the child, of course. Asking mental health questions of the parent can sometimes feel intrusive or invasive.
作为一名儿科医生，我通常会把注意力集中在孩子身上，向父母们问及精神健康方面的问题有时会让人觉得唐突或冒犯。
And there's the worry that even if you identify a problem, there may not be good help available. When poverty and lack of access are combined with parental depression, not surprisingly, the risks are that much greater.
另一种顾虑是，即使你能够发现问题，也无法提供有效帮助。如果父母的抑郁还伴随着贫穷和求助无门，那么毫不奇怪，风险就更大了。
And in looking for parental depression, in asking about it and discussing the risks, there may be a sense that doctors are placing blame. I think we fear that parents who are struggling with these shadows will feel accused and inadequate.
而且，探查父母抑郁时，在提问并讨论相关风险的过程中，父母很容易会产生被医生责备的感觉。我认为，我们也担心正与阴影作斗争的父母们会觉得被人横加指责，当作不称职的家长。
"The last thing in the world we should be doing is blaming parents," Dr. Beardslee said. "We should be reaching out and offering hope."
“我们绝不能责备那些父母，”比尔兹利医生说，“我们需要伸出援手，带来希望。”