Dr. Michael Warren had a complicated relationship with his condominium in the meatpacking district.
迈克尔·沃伦(Michael Warren)与他在肉库区(Meatpacking district)的共有产权公寓(condominium)之间，有着错综复杂的关系。
The penthouse duplex with two outdoor spaces was “sort of a labor of love,” he said. A frustrating one, too. Renovations dragged on for nearly two years.
这套带有两处室外空间的顶层复式公寓“可以说是我的甜蜜负担”，他说。这让他颇伤脑筋。装修工程持续了将近两年。
During the construction, he moved to an unpleasant tenement in Inwood, not far from Columbia University Medical Center, where he is an obstetrician-gynecologist. His work includes “a lot of delivering babies in the middle of the night,” he said.
在施工期间，他搬到了因伍德区(Inwood)一个环境欠佳的出租屋，离哥伦比亚大学医学中心(Columbia University Medical Center)不远，他是那里的一名妇产科医生，工作职责包括“经常在半夜时分帮人接生”，他说。
Meanwhile, Dr. Warren, now 42, decided that, “whether I was with someone or alone, I wanted a kid.” Jonas, born of a surrogate, arrived a year ago.
与此同时，今年42岁的沃伦决定，“不管和人恋爱还是单身，我都想要个小孩。”一年前，他找了个代孕母亲生下了乔纳斯(Jonas)。
“I thought I would be happy with one child, and I thought I would be there forever, and I worked so hard for it,” Dr. Warren said of his meatpacking-district apartment. “But I realized I want one more.”
“我以为有一个孩子自己就会心满意足了，我以为自己会一直住在那里，我为此拼命工作，”沃伦所说的住处是他在肉库区的公寓，“但是我意识到，自己还想要个孩子。”
And raising two children, with all their paraphernalia, was not going to be feasible in the duplex’s 740 square feet.
而要养育两个孩子，加上他们各种各样的用品，740平方英尺（约合69平方米）的复式公寓就会变得很拥挤了。
The meatpacking apartment was expensive to maintain as well. Six years ago, Dr. Warren’s purchase price had been $950,000. Monthly charges were almost $1,200. Because the building was mixed-use and had a certain percentage of retail space on the ground floor, his mortgage-interest rate was higher than usual.
而且肉库区的公寓维护起来费用也很高。六年前，沃伦购买这套房子的成交价是95万美元（约合人民币577万元），每月费用将近1200美元（约合人民币7282元）。由于这座建筑为混合用途，底层有一定比例的零售铺面，所以按揭贷款利率也比一般的公寓楼高。
“I needed to do three things,” Dr. Warren said. “Lower my monthly cost, get some money out so I could put it into the next surrogacy, and get a larger space. I knew I couldn’t do it downtown.”
“我需要做三件事，”沃伦说，“减少每月开销，为下一个代孕母亲攒些钱，找个大点的房子。我知道住在中心市区是做不到这些的。”
But he could do it in Harlem.
不过搬到哈莱姆区(Harlem)就没问题了。
If Dr. Warren moved to a two-family house in a less sought-after neighborhood — in or near Hamilton Heights — he could also rent out a floor. He thought a historical house would be great — “something that was going to make me excited in a different way,” he said. Dr. Warren was willing to renovate, as long as he could live in the house during the renovations.
如果沃伦在一个不那么热门的居民区（像汉密尔顿高地[Hamilton Heights]及其周边）找一栋两户共住式的住宅，那他还可以租出一个楼层。他觉得一栋有历史感的老宅子会很不错——“那种房子能为我带来不同的兴奋感，”他说。沃伦不介意装修房子，只要装修期间也可入住就行。
He embarked upon the hunt with Eric Penner, an agent at Keller Williams NYC, whom he met when he inquired about a listing for a townhouse, which, unfortunately, required too much work.
他开始和Keller Williams NYC公司的经纪人埃里克·彭纳(Eric Penner)一起物色房子。他们是在沃伦来咨询一栋正挂牌销售的联排别墅(town house)时认识的。可惜，那套别墅需要花大力气来装修。
A rowhouse on West 152nd Street was nicely configured, with a rental apartment on the ground floor. The second-floor unit was reached by the original staircase, and he liked the idea that it would “be a part of my life,” he said. “It is an important historical detail.”
西152街的一栋排屋(rowhouse)的格局很好，一楼有一套出租公寓，通往二楼套间的楼梯设计别致，他很愿意让它“成为我生活的一部分”，他说，“这是能体现出历史沧桑的一个重要细节。”
More practically, he didn’t want tenants stomping above. But he was not keen on the fact that the basement, where he planned to keep his gym equipment, could be reached only by going outside.
从更为实际的角度讲，他不希望有租户在楼上弄出很大声响。不过他并不介意地下室只能从室外进入，他打算在地下室里放健身设备。
The house was listed at $1.5 million, but needed some work, and the most Dr. Warren was willing to pay was $1.35 million. The house was later taken off the market.
这栋房子的挂牌价是150万美元（约合人民币910万元），但需略做装修，而沃伦愿意出的最高价是135万美元（约合人民币819万元）。后来这处房产就被从市面上撤下了。
Dr. Warren considered a pretty four-story rowhouse on Hamilton Terrace, though it faced east-west rather than north-south, which he thought would be sunnier. The asking price was $2 million.
沃伦考虑过汉密尔顿街(Hamilton Terrace)的一栋漂亮的四层排屋，只不过它是东西朝向、而非南北朝向的。他觉得南北朝向的房子阳光会更充足。这栋房子的要价是200万美元（约合人民币1214万元）。
The house had lovely woodwork, but it was only 16 feet wide. Its back extension housed an even narrower kitchen and consumed much of the backyard.
这栋房子有美观的木造工艺，不过其宽度只有16英尺（约合4.9米）。屋后的扩建部分在后院占了很大一块地方，其中的厨房甚至更窄。
It was set up as a one-family, so Dr. Warren faced the chore of converting it. When the sellers received an all-cash offer for the asking price, he moved on with little regret.
其房型是个独户式的住宅，所以沃伦要改建它的话，必须费一番功夫。当时还有其他买家提出，按照要价、以现金支付全额房款，于是沃伦毫不留恋地放弃了这套房子。
On West 142nd Street, an 18-foot-wide two-family brownstone had a beautiful L-shaped stoop. But on the parlor floor, which had been rented out, “a lot of the woodworking had been badly abused,” he said, and the kitchen and bathrooms were in sad shape. Dr. Warren thought he could occupy the top two floors while renovating the others.
西142街有一套18英尺（约合5.5米）宽的两户式褐石住宅，门廊呈L形，非常美观。不过在已经租出去的客厅楼层，“许多木质结构磨损得厉害，”他说，而且厨房和卧室也严重失修。沃伦觉得他可以住在楼顶的两层，然后对房子的其他部分进行装修。
He was so interested that he offered $1.85 million on an asking price of $1.8 million.
他对这套房子非常感兴趣。房子要价是180万美元（约合人民币1092万元），而他出价185万美元（约合人民币1123万元）。
But negotiations went nowhere. The owner later renovated the house and returned it to the market for $2.195 million.
不过交易还是无疾而终了。房主后来自己装修了这套房子，然后以219.5万美元（约合人民币1332万元）的要价重新挂牌销售。
When Dr. Warren saw a listing for a two-family limestone rowhouse a bit farther north on West 162nd Street in Washington Heights, he wasn’t sure he would like it. There were few photographs and the price, $1.9 million, seemed high.
沃伦后来在房源目录上看到一座两户式的石灰岩排屋，地点在华盛顿高地(Washington Heights)西162街略往北的位置。他并不确定自己会不会看中这座房子。照片很少，190万美元（约合人民币1153万元）的要价看起来也比较高。
But the house, almost 20 feet wide, had lovely woodwork and original details like ceiling medallions and fireplaces. It needed far less work than he had imagined. The house, which was occupied by several nuns, had two apartments; the ground-floor unit would make a good rental.
这座房子将近20英尺（约合6米）宽，它有精巧的木质结构，还有天花板上的圆形浮雕、壁炉等别致的设计细节。房子需要打理的地方比他预想的少得多。屋里住了几名修女，一共有两套公寓；一楼的单元可以作为很好的出租房。
“Every room was already up to a standard he was happy with,” Mr. Penner said. “It was more move-in ready.”
“每个房间都已经达到了令他满意的标准，”彭纳说，“它更让人省心，可以直接入住。”
So, in early fall, Dr. Warren bought the house for the asking price, $1.9 million. The meatpacking apartment sold for around $1.4 million.
于是今年（2013年——译注）初秋，沃伦以190万美元（约合人民币1153万元）的要价买下了这栋房子。而肉库区的那套公寓，则以140万美元（约合人民币850万元）左右的价格卖了出去。
Now, he and Jonas occupy the rental unit, and Dr. Warren is redoing and restoring much of the interior.
目前，他和乔纳斯住在出租单元房里，沃伦正在对很大一部分室内区域进行改建和装修。
“He made his last apartment one-of-a-kind and is not going to go for that modern feel in this townhome,” Mr. Penner said.
"他把之前住的那套公寓打造得独一无二，但并不打算在这栋排屋里也追求那种现代感，"彭纳说。
So far, the bill for floors, heating and air-conditioning is in the $200,000 range. “This isn’t even fun or glamorous stuff,” Dr. Warren said. “This is all mechanicals.”
目前为止，地板、暖气和空调的费用在20万美元（约合人民币121万元）上下。“这甚至不是什么有意思或有乐趣的事，”沃伦说，“纯粹是些机械性的活儿。”
He looks forward to moving upstairs to the main part of the house, which will include a room for Jonas’s nanny when she stays over while he is at work delivering those middle-of-the-night babies.
他期待着搬到楼上，住进房子的主体部分。那里会有一个专门的房间让乔纳斯的保姆住，保姆会在沃伦半夜出去接生时在家里过夜。
As for his next child, Dr. Warren is pursuing a second surrogacy.
为了再养一个小孩，沃伦正在寻找第二名代孕母亲。
Meanwhile, father and son are adjusting to life in a house. “I had to learn how to take the garbage out,” Dr. Warren said. “When you live in an apartment building, you just bring the garbage down to the common area.”
与此同时，父子俩正在适应住独栋公寓的生活。“我必须学会如何扔垃圾，”沃伦说，“以前住公寓楼的时候，只需要把垃圾带下来，丢到共管区就可以了。”
The nuns, who moved next door, taught him how to recycle.
修女们搬到了隔壁，还教会他怎样回收废旧物品。