HONG KONG — A proposed $745 million tie-up between the Chinese supermarket operator Wumart Stores and C.P. Lotus, a retailer in China controlled by the Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont, has fallen apart after the two sides failed to agree on final terms of the deal, both companies said Monday.
香港——本周一，中国超市运营商物美(Wumart Stores)和泰国亿万富翁谢国民(Dhanin Chearavanont)拥有的中国零售店卜蜂莲花(CP Lotus)均表示，由于未能对最终条款达成一致，两家公司计划进行的7.45亿美元（约合人民币45.23亿元）整合交易告吹。
There have been several recent attempts at consolidation in China’s fast- growing but fragmented supermarket sector, with varying degrees of success. The collapse of the C.P. Lotus-Wumart transaction caps what has otherwise been a year of extraordinary deal making for Mr. Dhanin, whose Charoen Pokphand Group invests in businesses as varied as agriculture, telecommunications and insurance.
中国的超市行业正在快速增长，但结构比较分散，最近对它的几次整合尝试获得了不同程度的成功。谢国民的正大集团(Charoen Pokphand Group)在农业、电信和保险等跨度较大的多个领域进行投资，卜蜂莲花和物美交易的失败，为正大集团今年高度活跃的交易活动划上了句号。
‘‘Despite extensive negotiations in good faith, C.P. Lotus and Wumart were not able to make sufficient progress in reaching agreement on certain key terms for the proposed transactions,’’ Mr. Dhanin’s company said Monday in a stock exchange announcement.
“尽管卜蜂莲花与物美善意地进行了广泛的磋商，但仍无法就敲定交易中的若干主要条款取得充分进展。”卜蜂莲花在周一的证交所公告中表示。
Wumart, which operates a chain of more than 500 hypermarkets and convenience stores in northern China, said in announcing the deal’s collapse that it ‘‘would wish to emphasize that it has taken into account the best interests of its shareholders.’’
物美在中国北方经营着逾500家大型综合超市和便利店，在宣布这笔交易告吹时，它表示，公司“希望强调，已考虑了股东的最佳利益”。
The two sides did not finalize a deal by their self-imposed deadline of Saturday, and both said Monday they had agreed not to extend negotiations.
双方没有在预定的截止日上周六签订协议，本周一，双方表示已经同意不再进行谈判。
Under the terms of the tie-up announced in October, Wumart was to have paid 2.3 billion Hong Kong dollars, or about $300 million, to acquire 36 stores in northern and eastern China from C.P. Lotus, which reported revenue for 2012 of 7.1 billion renminbi, or $1.2 billion.
根据10月公布的整合条款，物美本将以23亿港元（约合人民币18亿元）的价格收购卜蜂莲花在中国北部和东部的36家店铺，这些店2012年的营收为71亿人民币。
Wumart was also to have paid 548 million dollars for a 10 percent stake in C.P. Lotus, and Mr. Dhanin’s firm was to have bought a 13.8 percent stake in the Chinese company for 2.9 billion dollars.
物美原本还会斥资5.48亿港元认购卜蜂莲花10%的股份，而卜蜂莲花则会斥资29亿港元认购物美公司13.8%的股份。
Announcing the plans in October, Wumart had said the deal would give it ‘‘an immediate entry into important geographic regions such as eastern China, consistent with Wumart’s strategy. The established network and premium locations of the acquired stores would otherwise be difficult to build organically.’’
今年10月宣布这个计划时，物美曾表示，该交易“将会使物美得以即时进入华东地区等重要地区，符合物美的战略。这些店铺具有发展成熟的网络及优越位置，难以通过其他方式自行建立”。
Supermarket sales in China last year were 1.8 trillion renminbi, or nearly $300 billion, up 10 percent from 2011, according to figures from Euromonitor International, a global research company. Sales are forecast to rise 25 percent by 2015. Yet the sector remains highly fragmented, with no supermarket chain capturing more than 5 percent of the country’s market.
全球调研公司欧睿信息咨询公司(Euromonitor International)的资料显示，中国超市去年的销售额为1.8万亿人民币，较2011年同比增长10％。预计到2015年，中国超市的销售额将增长25％。但是该行业的结构仍然高度分散，在全国市场上，没有哪家连锁超市的份额超过了5%。
In September, the British retailer Tesco said it would pay 345 million pounds, or about $558 million, to fold its loss-making Chinese operations into a new partnership with China Resources Enterprise, a state-run retailer.
今年九月，英国零售商乐购(Tesco)表示将支付3.45亿磅，让其亏损的在华业务跟中国国有零售商华润创业有限公司(China Resources Enterprise)联姻，形成新的伙伴合作关系。
Over the summer, ParknShop, the Hong Kong supermarket chain owned by the billionaire Li Ka-shing, put itself up for sale, seeking offers of $3 billion to $4 billion. But the bids that came in from other retailers in the Asia-Pacific region and from private equity groups fell short of expectations, and in October Mr. Li’s Hutchison Whampoa said it would not sell ParknShop.
今年夏天，亿万富翁李嘉诚的香港连锁超市百佳(ParknShop)挂牌出售，希望以30亿至40亿美元的价格脱手。但来自于亚太其他地区的零售商和私募股权集团的出价低于预期，10月份，李嘉诚的和记黄埔(Hutchison Whampoa)表示将不会出售百佳。
The failure of Wumart and C.P. Lotus to execute their deal was a rare miss for Mr. Dhanin. In July, his True Corporation, a telecommunications company, said it would seek as much as $2.3 billion by spinning off 3G and broadband networks in a share sale in Bangkok.
对谢国民而言，物美和卜蜂莲花的交易告吹是一次罕见的失利。今年7月，他的电信公司True Corporation表示，将通过分拆3G和宽带网络服务，在曼谷发行价值高达23亿美元的股票。
In April, another one of Mr. Dhanin’s companies said it would buy the discount retailer Siam Makro for more than $6 billion. And in February, CP Group completed the $9.4 billion purchase of a 15.6 percent stake in the Ping An Insurance Group of China from HSBC Holdings, a deal it had announced in December of last year.
今年4月，谢国民的另一家公司表示，将斥资逾60亿美元收购折扣零售商万客隆(Siam Makro)。今年2月，正大集团向汇丰控股(HSBC Holdings)支付94亿美元，完成了对中国平安保险集团15.6%股权的收购，这笔交易是它去年12月宣布的。
Shares in Wumart fell on news that the deal was scrapped, and were down 5.8 percent at the noon trading break in Hong Kong. Shares in C.P. Lotus were down 3.8 percent. 
物美和卜蜂莲花交易告吹的消息公布后，在香港早盘，物美股价下跌5.8％，卜蜂莲花股价下跌3.8％。