A FRIDGE that puts milk on your shopping list when you run low. A safe that tallies the cash that is placed in it. A sniper rifle equipped with advanced computer technology for improved accuracy. A car that lets you stream music from the Internet.
当牛奶快要喝完时能够将它加入购物清单的电冰箱。可以统计内里现金量的保险箱。拥有能够提高准确度的高级电脑技术的狙击枪。可以通过互联网播放音乐的汽车。
All of these innovations sound great, until you learn the risks that this type of connectivity carries. Recently, two security researchers, sitting on a couch and armed only with laptops, remotely took over a Chrysler Jeep Cherokee speeding along the highway, shutting down its engine as an 18-wheeler truck rushed toward it. They did this all while a Wired reporter was driving the car. Their expertise would allow them to hack any Jeep as long as they knew the car’s I.P. address, its network address on the Internet. They turned the Jeep’s entertainment dashboard into a gateway to the car’s steering, brakes and transmission.
这些新事物听起来非常棒，直到你了解了这种连接性能带来的威胁为止。最近，两名安全研究人员坐在沙发上，只通过笔记本电脑远程就接管了一辆正在公路上高速行驶的克莱斯勒吉普切诺基(Chrysler Jeep Cherokee)。当一辆18轮卡车朝它疾驰的时候，研究人员关闭了吉普的引擎。他们这样做时，《连线》杂志(Wired)的一名记者正在驾驶这辆吉普。他们的专业技能使得他们能够侵入吉普品牌任何车辆的系统，只要知道汽车的互联网协议地址。他们将那辆吉普的娱乐仪表板转变成进入汽车转向装置、刹车系统及传动装置的通道。
A hacked car is a high-profile example of what can go wrong with the coming Internet of Things — objects equipped with software and connected to digital networks. The selling point for these well-connected objects is added convenience and better safety. In reality, it is a fast-motion train wreck in privacy and security.
汽车系统遭到入侵是一个引入注目的例子，可以说明即将到来的物联网——拥有软件并与数字网络联通的物体——时代会出现什么问题。更加方便、更加安全是这些能够连网的商品的卖点。实际上，它们是冲向隐私和安全性灾难的高速列车。
The early Internet was intended to connect people who already trusted one another, like academic researchers or military networks. It never had the robust security that today’s global network needs. As the Internet went from a few thousand users to more than three billion, attempts to strengthen security were stymied because of cost, shortsightedness and competing interests. Connecting everyday objects to this shaky, insecure base will create the Internet of Hacked Things. This is irresponsible and potentially catastrophic.
早期的互联网是为了将彼此信任的人连接起来，比如学术研究人员或军事网络。那会儿不像现在的全球网络，并不需要强大的安全措施。随着互联网用户从几千名增加到30多亿，出于成本、缺乏远见及利益冲突的原因，加强安全的努力受阻。将日常用品与不稳定、不安全的网络连接起来会创造一个易受攻击的物联网。这是不负责任的，而且可能带来灾难性后果。
That smart safe? Hackers can empty it with a single USB stick while erasing all logs of its activity — the evidence of deposits and withdrawals — and of their crime. That high-tech rifle? Researchers managed to remotely manipulate its target selection without the shooter’s knowing.
智能保险柜？黑客们只需要用一个U盘就可以将其洗劫一空，同时清除所有活动记录——存取款的证据——及他们的犯罪活动。高科技狙击枪？研究人员能在枪手不知情的情况下远程操控目标选择。
Home builders and car manufacturers have shifted to a new business: the risky world of information technology. Most seem utterly out of their depth.
住宅开发商和汽车生产商在转向一项新业务：充满风险的信息技术领域。这似乎完全超出了其中大部分人的能力。
Although Chrysler quickly recalled 1.4 million Jeeps to patch this particular vulnerability, it took the company more than a year after the issue was first noted, and the recall occurred only after that spectacular publicity stunt on the highway and after it was requested by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. In announcing the software fix, the company said that no defect had been found. If two guys sitting on their couch turning off a speeding car’s engine from miles away doesn’t qualify, I’m not sure what counts as a defect in Chrysler’s world. And Chrysler is far from the only company compromised: from BMW to Tesla to General Motors, many automotive brands have been hacked, with surely more to come.
虽然克莱斯勒很快就召回了140万辆吉普，以弥补这个漏洞，但此时距离最初发现问题过去了一年多，而且是在研究人员在公路上进行了那场引人注目的公开演示、美国国家公路交通安全管理局(National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)也提出了要求后才予以召回。宣布进行软件修复时，公司表示并没有发现缺陷。如果两个人坐在沙发上就能远程关闭高速行驶的汽车的引擎都不算的话，我不知道在克莱斯勒眼里，什么才算是缺陷。克莱斯勒并不是唯一被侵入的公司：从宝马(BMW)、特斯拉(Tesla)到通用汽车(General Motors)，很多汽车品牌都遭到过黑客攻击，而且未来肯定会有更多品牌中招。
Dramatic hacks attract the most attention, but the software errors that allow them to occur are ubiquitous. While complex breaches can take real effort — the Jeep hacker duo spent two years researching — simple errors in the code can also cause significant failure. Adding software with millions of lines of code to objects greatly increases their potential for harm.
拥有戏剧效果的几次黑客袭击吸引了多数关注，但使得黑客得手的软件缺陷无处不在。虽然复杂的侵入行动或许需要花费一番功夫——攻击吉普的那两个人耗费了两年时间进行研究——代码中的一些简单错误也会导致重大失灵。将拥有数百万行代码的软件加到物品中的做法极大地增加了它们的潜在危害。
The Internet of Things is also a privacy nightmare. Databases that already have too much information about us will now be bursting with data on the places we’ve driven, the food we’ve purchased and more. Last week, at Def Con, the annual information security conference, researchers set up an Internet of Things village to show how they could hack everyday objects like baby monitors, thermostats and security cameras.
物联网还是一个隐私噩梦。数据库里已经有了太多关于我们的信息，现在又会加上我们开车去过的地方、我们购买的食物等海量信息。上周，在Def Con年度信息安全大会上，研究人员设立了一个物联网村，用以展示他们如何侵入婴儿监控器、恒温器及安全摄像头等日常用品。
Connecting everyday objects introduces new risks if done at mass scale. Take that smart refrigerator. If a single fridge malfunctions, it’s a hassle. However, if the fridge’s computer is connected to its motor, a software bug or hack could “brick” millions of them all at once — turning them into plastic pantries with heavy doors.
倘若将日常用品大规模连网，会带来新的风险。以智能冰箱为例。如果一台冰箱出现故障，便只有这一个麻烦。但如果冰箱的电脑系统与电动机相连，那么软件漏洞或黑客攻击行为就可能导致数百万台冰箱集体“变砖”，成为拥有厚重柜门的塑料储存箱。
Cars — two-ton metal objects designed to hurtle down highways — are already bracingly dangerous. The modern automobile is run by dozens of computers that most manufacturers connect using a system that is old and known to be insecure. Yet automakers often use that flimsy system to connect all of the car’s parts. That means once a hacker is in, she’s in everywhere — engine, steering, transmission and brakes, not just the entertainment system.
汽车这个在公路上飞驰的两吨重的金属物体本已极其危险。这种现代交通工具由数十台计算机操控，而大多数生产商利用众所周知不安全的一种老旧系统连接这些计算机。汽车生产商通常利用这个脆弱的系统连接汽车的所有部件。这意味着，一旦黑客侵入，就会触及每个地方——引擎、转向装置、传动装置和刹车系统，不仅仅是娱乐系统。
For years, security researchers have been warning about the dangers of coupling so many systems in cars. Alarmed researchers have published academic papers, hacked cars as demonstrations, and begged the industry to step up. So far, the industry response has been to nod politely and fix exposed flaws without fundamentally changing the way they operate.
多年来，安全研究人员一直警告，将这么多系统连到车上，会带来很多风险。为此担忧的研究人员已经发表了相关学术论文，以被黑客控制的车辆作为例证，请求汽车行业采取行动。目前，汽车行业的反应只是礼貌地点点头，修好了已经暴露的那些具体问题，而没有从根本上改变其操作方式。
In 1965, Ralph Nader published “Unsafe at Any Speed,” documenting car manufacturers’ resistance to spending money on safety features like seatbelts. After public debate and finally some legislation, manufacturers were forced to incorporate safety technologies.
拉尔夫·纳德尔(Ralph Nader)1965年出版的《任何速度都不安全》(Unsafe at Any Speed)一书，记录了汽车生产商拒绝在安全带之类的安全设备上投入资金的行为。经过社会公开辩论，美国终于有了相关立法，之后汽车厂商才被迫加入安全技术。
No company wants to be the first to bear the costs of updating the insecure computer systems that run most cars. We need federal safety regulations to push automakers to move, as a whole industry. Last month, a bill with privacy and cybersecurity standards for cars was introduced in the Senate. That’s good, but it’s only a start. We need a new understanding of car safety, and of the safety of any object running software or connecting to the Internet.
没有哪个公司愿意率先为更新大部分汽车都在使用的不安全汽车系统买单。我们需要制定联邦安全法规，来迫使汽车厂商在整个行业内展开行动。上个月，一份有关汽车隐私和网络安全标准的议案被提交到了参议院。这很好，但它只是个开始。我们需要对汽车安全采取新的理解，需要建立有关任何运行软件或联网的物体的安全性的新观念。
It may be hard to fix security on the digital Internet, but the Internet of Things should not be built on this faulty foundation. Responding to digital threats by patching only exposed vulnerabilities is giving just aspirin to a very ill patient.
或许，在数字化的网络上解决安全问题比较困难，但物联网不应该建立在一个有问题的基础上。以给暴露的缺陷打补丁的方式应对数字化威胁，就像只给一个病重者吃阿司匹林。