LONDON — After a startlingly swift transfer of power, Theresa May became Britain’s prime minister Wednesday, promising to honor last month’s referendum to leave the European Union, but also to heal divisions that the vote exposed, and to preside over an economy that benefits everyone, not just the “privileged few.”
伦敦——经过速度惊人的权力交接，特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)在周三成为英国首相。她承诺将履行上个月的公投结果，退出欧盟，也将修复公投暴露出的分歧，还承诺主持一个不只服务于“少数特权阶层”、而是让所有人受惠的经济。
In a surprise appointment, May named Boris Johnson, the former London mayor who became a fiery advocate of the Brexit campaign only to abruptly pull out of the race to become the next prime minister, as foreign secretary.
让人意外的是，梅任命伦敦前市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)担任外交大臣。后者曾是脱欧的激烈倡导者，结果却突然退出了下一任英国首相的竞逐。
Speaking as she arrived at the prime minister’s office at 10 Downing Street, May, who had served for six years as home secretary, sought to position herself firmly in the tradition of “one nation” Conservatism, stressing her commitment to helping the underprivileged and pledging to fight “burning injustice.”
抵达位于唐宁街10号的首相官邸时，已经做了六年内政大臣的梅发表了讲话，试图坚定地把自己摆在“一国”保守主义传统之中，强调她致力于帮助弱势群体，承诺与“日渐突出的不公正”做斗争。
“We are living through an important moment in our country’s history; following the referendum, we face a time of great national change,” May said.
“我们正在经历英国历史上一个重要的时刻；在公投之后，我们面临着一个伟大的民族变革的时代，”梅说。
May had supported Britain’s remaining in the European Union, but tepidly, and she promised to respect the outcome of the June 23 vote. “As we leave the European Union we will forge a bold new positive role for ourselves in the world, and we will make Britain a country that works not just for a privileged few but for every one of us,” she said.
梅此前支持英国留欧，但她淡然地表示，承诺履行6月23日的公投结果。“在离开欧盟之时，我们将在世界上为自己打造一个勇敢积极的新形象，我们将使英国成为一个并非只服务于少数特权阶层、而是为我们所有人服务的国家，”她说。
After the fast-paced events of recent weeks, a day of political ritual saw David Cameron address lawmakers for the last time as prime minister, before tendering his resignation to Queen Elizabeth II, to make way for May, 59.
经过几周的事态快速演变，英国迎来这一天的政治仪式。戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)最后一次以英国首相的身份接受议员质询，之后他向英国女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)递交辞呈，为现年59岁的梅让位。
May’s first responsibility is to start constructing a new Cabinet, and May quickly put her stamp on the new government by replacing the chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, with Philip Hammond, who had been foreign secretary.
梅的首要责任是组建新内阁。她很快在新政府中打上了自己的印记，让原先的外交大臣菲利普·哈蒙德(Philip Hammond)替代乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)担任财政大臣。
Just an hour or so before May spoke Wednesday, Cameron had stood in the same spot, paying tribute to his family and his key staff members who had supported him.
就在梅于周三发表讲话约一个小时前，卡梅伦站在同一个地方，感谢他的家人，向支持他的核心工作团队致敬。
“It has been the greatest honor of my life to serve our country as prime minister over these last six years, and to serve as the leader of my party for almost 11 years,” Cameron said.
“能在过去六年以首相的身份为我们的国家服务，在过去近11年里担任保守党领袖，是我这一生最大的荣耀，”卡梅伦说。