Experts have long known that children imitate many of the deeds — good and bad — that they see on television. But it has rarely been shown that changing a young child’s viewing habits at home can lead to improved behavior.
专家早已指出，儿童会模仿电视中的很多行为——无论是好的还是坏的。但鲜有研究表明，改变儿童在家中的收视习惯也会改善他们的行为。
In a study published Monday in the journal Pediatrics, researchers reported the results of a program designed to limit the exposure of preschool children to violence-laden videos and television shows and increase their time with educational programming that encourages empathy. They found that the experiment reduced the children’s aggression toward others, compared with a group of children who were allowed to watch whatever they wanted.
在《儿科杂志》(Pediatrics)周一发布的一项研究中，研究人员报告了他们的项目结果。这是一个针对学龄前儿童的项目，即限制他们收看充斥暴力的视频及电视节目，并增加其收看有助于增强同情心的教育节目的时间。结果发现，相比于一组允许随意收看各种节目的儿童，实验组的孩子对他人的攻击性降低了。
“Here we have an experiment that proposes a potential solution,” said Dr. Thomas N. Robinson, a professor of pediatrics at Stanford, who was not involved in the study. “Giving this intervention — exposing kids to less adult television, less aggression on television and more prosocial television — will have an effect on behavior.”
“现在我们有了一个可提供潜在解决方案的实验，”斯坦福大学(Stanford University)儿科学教授托马斯·N·鲁宾逊(Thomas N. Robinson)说。不过，他并没有参与这项研究。“这种干预——让儿童少看成人电视节目，少看充斥暴力的电视节目，而多看亲社会的电视节目——将会对行为产生影响，”他说。
While the research showed “a small to moderate effect” on the preschoolers’ behavior, he added, the broader public health impact could be “very meaningful.”
虽然该研究表明这只会对学龄前儿童的行为产生“小到中等程度的影响”，但它对更宽泛的公共卫生的影响却 “意义重大”，他补充说。
The new study was a randomized trial, rare in research on the effects of media on children. The researchers, at Seattle Children’s Research Institute and the University of Washington, divided 565 parents of children ages 3 to 5 into two groups. Both were told to track their children’s media consumption in a diary that the researchers assessed for violent, didactic and prosocial content, which they defined as showing empathy, helping others and resolving disputes without violence.
这项新研究采用的是随机试验，就媒体对孩子的影响进行了非常少见的研究。西雅图儿童研究所(Seattle Children’s Research Institute)和华盛顿大学(University of Washington)的研究人员将565名3岁～5岁儿童的父母分成两组，并告诉他们通过日记来追踪孩子的媒体消费情况。日记中标有研究人员核定的三块媒体内容：暴力的、说教的和亲社会的，儿童行为分别定义为展现同情心、帮助他人和不以暴力解决纠纷。
The control group was given advice only on better dietary habits for children. The second group of parents were sent program guides highlighting positive shows for young children. They also received newsletters encouraging parents to watch television with their children and ask questions during the shows about the best ways to deal with conflict. The parents also received monthly phone calls from the researchers, who helped them set television-watching goals for their preschoolers.
对照组只会获得改善孩子消费习惯的建议，而第二组的父母则不同，他们不仅会收到节目指南——知道哪些节目会对孩子产生积极影响，而且还会收到简报，并被鼓励同孩子一起看电视，并在收看过程中询问他们有关处理冲突的最佳方法。此外，研究人员每个月还会给该组父母打电话，帮助他们为家中的学龄前儿童设定收视收目标。
The researchers surveyed the parents at six months and again after a year about their children’s social behavior. After six months, parents in the group receiving advice about television-watching said their children were somewhat less aggressive with others, compared with those in the control group. The children who watched less violent shows also scored higher on measures of social competence, a difference that persisted after one year.
对于孩子的社会行为，研究人员分别在六个月后和一年后对其父母进行了调查。六个月后，获得电视收看建议的那组父母表示，他们的孩子的攻击性有所降低——相比于对照组的孩子而言。在社交能力指标上，观看较少暴力节目的孩子也取得了较高的分数，这一结果与一年后的调查结果相同。
Low-income boys showed the most improvement, though the researchers could not say why. Total viewing time did not differ between the two groups.
低收入家庭中男孩行为的改进最为明显，但研究人员并不清楚其中的原因所在。两组收看电视的总时间是一样的。
“The take-home message for parents is it’s not just about turning off the TV; it’s about changing the channel,” said Dr. Dimitri A. Christakis, the lead author of the study and a professor of pediatrics at the University of Washington.
“对父母来说，关键的信息并不是关电视，而是换频道，”该项研究的主要作者、华盛顿大学儿科学教授迪米特里·A·克里斯塔基斯(Dimitri A. Christakis)医生说。
“We want our children to behave better,” Dr. Christakis said, “and changing their media diet is a good way to do that.”
“我们想让孩子表现得更好，”克里斯塔基斯医生说：“而改变他们的媒体菜单是一个不错的方式。”
Until she began participating in Dr. Christakis’s trial, Nancy Jensen, a writer in Seattle, had never heard of shows like Nickelodeon’s “Wonder Pets!,” featuring cooperative team players, and NBC’s “My Friend Rabbit,” with its themes of loyalty and friendship.
在参加克里斯塔基斯的测试之前，西雅图作家南希·延森(Nancy Jensen)从未听说过尼克儿童频道(Nickelodeon)的《神奇宠物救护队》(Wonder Pets!)和全国广播公司(NBC)的《我的兔子朋友》(My Friend Rabbit)等节目。就主题而言，前者讲团队合作，后者讲忠诚和友谊。
At the time, her daughter Elizabeth, then 3, liked"King of the Hill,"a cartoon comedy geared toward adults that features beer and gossip. In hindsight, she said, the show was “hilariously funny, but completely inappropriate for a 3-year-old.”
当时，她3岁的女儿伊丽莎白(Elizabeth)喜欢看《一家之主》(King of the Hill)——一部面向成人的、以啤酒和流言为特色的动画喜剧片。事后她说，这个片子“非常搞笑，但完全不适合一个3岁的孩子观看。”
These days, she consults Common Sense Media, a nonprofit advocacy group in San Francisco, to make sure that the shows her daughter watches have some prosocial benefit. Elizabeth, now 6, was “not necessarily an aggressive kid,” Ms. Jensen said. Still, the girl’s teacher recently commended her as very considerate, and Ms. Jensen believes a better television diet is an important reason.
目前，她已向旧金山的非营利倡导团体“常识媒体”(Common Sense Media)寻求建议，确保其女儿观看的节目具有一定的亲社会效益。延森女士说，现在已经6岁的伊丽莎白并不是“一个好斗的孩子”。另外，孩子的老师最近也表扬她非常懂事。延森女士认为，好的电视节目菜单是重要原因。
The new study has limitations, experts noted. Data on both the children’s television habits and their behavior was reported by their parents, who may not be objective. And the study focused only on media content in the home, although some preschool-aged children are exposed to programming elsewhere.
专家指出，这项新研究也存在局限性。孩子看电视的习惯及其表现行为的相关数据都是由他们的父母提供的，这可能存在不客观的情况。此外，该项研究关注的只是家中的媒体内容，而有些学龄前儿童也会接触到其他地方的节目。
Children watch a mix of “prosocial but also antisocial media,” said Marie-Louise Mares, an associate professor of communications at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. “Merely being exposed to prosocial media doesn’t mean that kids take it that way.”
孩子收看的“既有亲社会媒体也有反社会媒体”。威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin, Madison)传播学副教授玛丽-路易丝·马雷斯(Marie-Louise Mares)说，“只收看亲社会媒体并不意味着孩子就会照着去做。”
Even educational programming with messages of empathy can be misunderstood by preschoolers, with negative consequences. A study published online in November in The Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology found that preschoolers shown educational media were more likely to engage in certain forms of interpersonal aggression over time.
即便是传递同情心的教育节目也可能会被学龄前儿童误解，并产生负面后果。《应用发展心理学杂志》(The Journal of Applied Developmental Psychology)网站去年11月发布的一项研究表明，长期来看，收看教育媒体的学龄前儿童更有可能发起特定形式的攻击性行为。
Preschoolers observe relationship conflict early in a television episode but do not always connect it to the moral lesson or resolution at the end, said Jamie M. Ostrov, the lead author of the November study and an associate professor of psychology at the University of Buffalo.
布法罗大学(University of Buffalo)心理学副教授、11月那份研究报告的主要作者杰米·M·奥斯特罗夫(Jamie M. Ostrov)说，学龄前儿童并不一定会将早前在电视节目中看到的关系冲突与之后的道德教训或解决方案联系起来。
Preschoolers watch an estimated 4.1 hours of television and other screen time daily, according to a 2011 study. Dr. Ostrov advised parents to watch television with their young children and to speak up during the relationship conflicts that are depicted. Citing one example, Dr. Ostrov counseled parents to ask children, “What could we do differently here?” to make it clear that yelling at a sibling is not acceptable.
据2011年的一项研究称，学龄前儿童每天约看4.1个小时的电视节目及其他节目。奥斯特罗夫医生建议父母同孩子一同观看，并在出现关系冲突时清楚地表明自己的看法。举例来说，奥斯特罗夫会建议父母向孩子询问，“我们在这里还可以怎么做？”以此来表明朝着兄弟姐妹大吼大叫是不可接受的。
He also urged parents to stick with age-appropriate programming. A 3-year-old might misunderstand the sibling strife in the PBS show"Arthur,” he said, or stop paying attention before it is resolved.
此外，他还建议父母坚持收看与孩子年龄相适的节目。他说，对于美国公共广播公司(PBS)节目《亚瑟》(Arthur)中的同胞冲突场景，一个3岁的孩子可能会产生误解，也可能会在冲突解决前就已分散了注意力。