NEW LONDON, Conn. — An embattled President Trump used a commencement address to the Coast Guard Academy to defend himself on Wednesday, telling graduating cadets that no leader in history had been treated more “unfairly” by the news media and Washington elites.
康涅狄格州新伦敦——周三，处境艰难的特朗普总统利用在海岸警卫队学院(Coast Guard Academy)毕业典礼上发表讲话的机会为自己辩护，他告诉毕业的学员们，历史上从来没有哪个领导人像他这样，遭到新闻媒体和华盛顿精英们那么多“不公正”的对待。
Trump began his speech at the Coast Guard Academy with a tribute to the service’s efforts to stop drug dealers on domestic waterways and the open seas. But he quickly toggled to himself, after a week of damaging disclosures capped by the revelation Tuesday that he pressured the former FBI director James B. Comey to drop his investigation into possible collusion between the president’s first national security adviser and Russia.
特朗普首先赞扬了海岸警卫队在制止国内水路和公海毒品贩运方面的成就。但他很快把话题转向了自己，此前一周，他经历了一系列造成破坏性影响的披露事件，最终于周二被披露曾向前联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)施压，要求后者终止对总统的第一任国家安全顾问可能与俄罗斯勾结的调查。
“You will find things are not always fair,” said Trump, blurring the lines between an inspirational, forward-looking commencement speech and talk about himself, much as he did at a commencement address to students at Liberty University in Virginia on Saturday.
“你们会发现事情并不总是公平的，”特朗普把这几句话夹杂在一篇鼓舞人心、展望未来的毕业典礼演讲之中，他大谈自己的事，就像他周六在弗吉尼亚州利伯缇大学(Liberty University)所做的毕业典礼演讲一样。
“You have to put your head down and fight, fight, fight,” Trump said, offering his personal credo, before switching to an explicit theme of self-defense. “Look at the way I’ve been treated lately, especially by the media. No politician in history, and I say with surety, has been treated worse, more unfairly.”
“你们必须低下头来战斗，战斗，战斗，”特朗普献上自己的个人信条，之后显然又转向自我辩解。“看看我最近都被怎样对待，特别是媒体。我敢保证，历史上没有哪个政治人物受过比这更恶劣、更不公平的待遇。”
When the audience applauded, Trump — whom aides have described as frustrated and defiant as controversy has engulfed the White House in recent days — smiled and told people to stand by their beliefs.
助手们曾经表示，由于最近几天争议席卷白宫，特朗普感到心烦意乱、忿忿不平——而当台下观众们开始鼓掌时，他微笑起来，告诉他们要坚持信念。
“You can’t let them get you down. You can’t let the critics and the naysayers get in the way of your dreams,” he said.
“你不能被他们搞得心情沮丧。你不能让那些评论者和唱反调的人妨碍你的梦想，”他说。
“I guess that’s why I won,” Trump added.
“我想这就是为什么我能赢，”特朗普补充说。
It was the president’s first public appearance since The New York Times reported on Comey’s memo about his meeting with the president Feb. 14, a day after Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn was pushed out as Trump’s national security adviser.
陆军中将迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)辞任特朗普的国家安全顾问翌日，即2月14日，科米与总统会面并写下了备忘录。《纽约时报》报道了这则备忘录，这是特朗普在该报道之后首次公开露面。
Trump did not wave to reporters as he boarded Air Force One for his flight to Connecticut. But he appeared with a smile and a salute as he walked along a processional to the dais at the Coast Guard Academy’s football field.
登上空军一号飞往康涅狄格州时，特朗普没有向记者们挥手。但当他来到海岸警卫队学院的橄榄球场，沿着队列走向讲台时，他面带微笑，向人群致意。
Trump used this speech to describe his upcoming foreign trip, which his new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, said would focus on a message of unity to the Muslim world. In his Coast Guard address, Trump invoked the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” and said it was important to stamp it out. Ahead of a meeting with NATO partners in Brussels, he reiterated his call to make allies pay their share for defense.
特朗普在讲话中描述他即将进行的出国访问，他的新任国家安全顾问H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)将军曾说，此次出行将重点传达与穆斯林世界团结的信息。特朗普在海岸警卫队的演讲中提到了“激进伊斯兰恐怖主义”这一表述，表示铲除它是非常重要的。在去往布鲁塞尔与北约合作伙伴举行会议之前，他重申了自己的呼吁，要求盟国分担防务费用。
The president’s comments at the ceremony were in contrast to more somber remarks from Adm. Paul F. Zukunft, the Coast Guard commandant, and John F. Kelly, the secretary of the Homeland Security, about the significance of leadership, character and the rule of law.
海岸警卫队指挥官保罗·F·泽科夫特(Paul F. Zukunft)及国土安全部部长约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)在典礼上的讲话更加沉重，谈及领导力、性格与法治的重要性，与特朗普的讲话形成鲜明对比。
“With national security also comes public trust, and the two of those are interwoven,” Zukunft said. “You don’t have both of those unless you have leaders of character.”
“除了国家安全，还有公众信任，二者是交织在一起的，”泽科夫特说。“除非拥有个性鲜明的领导者，否则这二者就不可能实现。”
Kelly repeatedly referred to the United States as a nation of laws and urged the graduates to focus on protecting the ideals of the U.S. constitution.
凯利多次提到美国是一个法治国家，并敦促毕业生投身保卫美国宪法这一理想。
“Tell the truth to your seniors,” said Kelly, a retired four-star Marine general. “Even if it’s uncomfortable.”
“向你的上级说实话，”退役海军陆战队四星上将凯利说。“即便那会让你觉得不自在。”