WASHINGTON — Only seven days after Donald J. Trump was sworn in as president, James B. Comey has told associates, the F.B.I. director was summoned to the White House for a one-on-one dinner with the new commander in chief.
华盛顿——联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)告诉身边的人，唐纳德·J·特朗普宣誓就任总统仅仅七天后，自己便被召入白宫，与新任最高统帅一对一共进晚餐。
The conversation that night in January, Mr. Comey now believes, was a harbinger of his downfall this week as head of the F.B.I., according to two people who have heard his account of the dinner.
两名听科米谈论过那顿晚餐的人士说，科米现在认为，1月那个夜晚的谈话是他被解除联邦调查局局长职务的先兆。
As they ate, the president and Mr. Comey made small talk about the election and the crowd sizes at Mr. Trump’s rallies. The president then turned the conversation to whether Mr. Comey would pledge his loyalty to him.
进餐时，总统和科米闲聊起了大选以及支持特朗普的集会的人员规模。总统随后把话题引向科米是否会承诺向其效忠。
Mr. Comey declined to make that pledge. Instead, Mr. Comey has recounted to others, he told Mr. Trump that he would always be honest with him, but that he was not “reliable” in the conventional political sense.
科米拒绝做出这一承诺。他向其他人回忆说，他告诉特朗普，他会一直对他以诚相待，但他不是传统政治意义上的那种“可靠”的人。
The White House on Wednesday said this account is not correct. And Mr. Trump, in an interview on Thursday with NBC, described a far different dinner conversation with Mr. Comey in which the director asked to have the meeting and the question of loyalty never came up. It was not clear whether he was talking about the same meal, but they are believed to have had only one dinner together.
白宫周三表示，这种描述不符合事实。特朗普周四接受NBC采访时，就自己和科米的晚餐谈话给出了截然不同的描述，他说请求会面的是科米，而且他从未问过关于忠诚的问题。目前尚不清楚他和科米谈论的是不是同一顿晚餐，但据信他们以前只共进过一顿晚餐。
By Mr. Comey’s account, his answer to Mr. Trump’s initial question apparently did not satisfy the president, the associates said. Later in the dinner, Mr. Trump again said to Mr. Comey that he needed his loyalty.
那几位科米身边的人表示，按照他的说法，他就特朗普最初的提问给出的答案显然没能让总统满意。吃到后来，特朗普再次对科米说，他需要科米的忠诚。
Mr. Comey again replied that he would give him “honesty” and did not pledge his loyalty, according to the account of the conversation.
根据关于那场谈话的描述，科米再次回答说，他会向特朗普奉上自己的“诚实”，而不是保证向其效忠。
But Mr. Trump pressed him on whether it would be “honest loyalty.”
但特朗德追问道，那是否会是“诚实的忠诚”。
“You will have that,” Mr. Comey told his associates that he responded.
“你会享有它，”科米向身边人复述自己当时的回应。
Throughout his career, Mr. Trump has made loyalty from the people who worked for him a key priority, often discharging employees he considered insufficiently reliable.
在整个职业生涯中，特朗普一直极为看重为他工作的那些人的忠诚度，常常解雇他心目中不够可靠的下属。
As described by the two people, the dinner offers a window into Mr. Trump’s approach to the presidency, through Mr. Comey’s eyes. A businessman and reality television star who never served in public office, Mr. Trump may not have understood that by tradition, F.B.I. directors are not supposed to be political loyalists, which is why Congress in the 1970s passed a law giving them 10-year terms to make them independent of the president.
正如前述两位人士所言，那场晚餐让我们得以借助科米的眼睛，一窥特朗普对待总统职位的态度。作为一名此前从未出任过公职的商人和电视真人秀明星，特朗普或许并不明白，按照传统，联邦调查局局长不该在政治上忠于谁，正因为如此，国会才在1970年代通过一项法案，给了他们10年的任期，以便让他们独立于总统。
Mr. Comey described details of his refusal to pledge his loyalty to Mr. Trump to several people close to him on the condition that they not discuss it publicly while he was F.B.I. director. But now that Mr. Comey has been fired, they felt free to discuss it on the condition of anonymity.
科米向几名与其关系密切的人士描述他拒绝保证向特朗普效忠的细节时，要求他们不要在他担任联邦调查局局长期间公开谈论此事。但现在科米已被解职，他们觉得自己可以在匿名的情况下随意谈论了。
A White House spokeswoman on Thursday disputed the description of the dinner by Mr. Comey’s associates.
白宫发言人于周四驳斥了科米身边的人对于那顿晚餐的描述。
“We don’t believe this to be an accurate account,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy press secretary. “The integrity of our law enforcement agencies and their leadership is of the utmost importance to President Trump. He would never even suggest the expectation of personal loyalty, only loyalty to our country and its great people.”
“我们认为这种描述并不准确，”副新闻秘书萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)说。“我们的执法机构及其领导层的诚信对特朗普总统来说是最重要的。他绝不会哪怕是暗示希望谁忠于他本人，他只希望他们忠于我们的国家以及这个国家的伟大人民。”
At the dinner described by Mr. Trump in his interview with NBC, the conversation with Mr. Comey was quite different. Mr. Trump told NBC that Mr. Comey requested it to ask to keep his job. Mr. Trump said he asked the F.B.I. director if he was under investigation, a question that legal experts called highly unusual if not improper. In Mr. Trump’s telling, Mr. Comey reassured him that he was not.
特朗普接受NBC采访时，对他和科米共进晚餐时的谈话做了截然不同的描述。他告诉NBC，是科米主动提议共进晚餐，以便请求继续留在任上。特朗普说他问过科米，他是否正受到调查——法律专家称，这是一个即便够不上不当，也堪称极不寻常的问题。按照特朗普的说法，科米向他保证，他未受调查。
Mr. Trump did not say whether he asked Mr. Comey for his loyalty. Asked at Wednesday’s White House news briefing whether loyalty was a factor in picking a new F.B.I. director, Ms. Sanders said Mr. Trump wanted someone who is “loyal to the justice system.”
特朗普没说他是否曾要求科米保证对他效忠。在周三的白宫新闻发布会上，当被问及忠诚度是否是挑选新任联邦调查局局长的一个影响因素时，桑德斯说，特朗普希望挑选一个“忠于司法体系”的人。
The dinner described by Mr. Comey’s associates came in the early days of Mr. Trump’s administration even as the F.B.I. was investigating Russian meddling in the election and possible ties to Mr. Trump’s campaign. That investigation has since gained momentum as investigators have developed new evidence and leads.
按照科米身边的人的说法，那顿晚餐发生在特朗普政府上台伊始，当时联邦调查局正就俄罗斯人对美国大选的干预以及这与特朗普竞选团队的可能关联展开调查。此后，随着调查人员发现新的证据和线索，这场调查声势日壮。
Mr. Trump had met Mr. Comey for the first time in January, during the transition, when, along with the intelligence chiefs, the F.B.I. director presented him with evidence of that intervention. Mr. Comey was tasked by his fellow intelligence directors to also pull Mr. Trump aside and inform him about a secret dossier suggesting that Russia may have collected compromising information about him.
今年1月，特朗普在权力过渡期首次会见了科米，当时，这位联邦调查局长与一些情报工作负责人一道，向特朗普呈递了俄罗斯人干预大选的证据。科米受其他主管情报工作的同僚之托，还把特朗普拉到一边，向其告知与一个卷宗有关的信息。该卷宗显示，俄罗斯或许收集了关于特朗普的黑材料。
The dinner, at which the conversation Mr. Comey related took place, was on Jan. 27, a month later.
大约一个月后的1月27日，两人共进晚餐，进行了科米所述及的谈话。
Mr. Comey’s associates said that the new president requested the dinner he described, and said that he was wary about attending because he did not want to appear too chummy with Mr. Trump, especially amid the Russia investigation. But Mr. Comey went because he did not believe he could turn down a meeting with the new president.
科米身边的人说，他所描述的那顿晚餐是由新总统提议的，他说自己对于赴约心存疑虑，因为他不想显得和特朗普太过亲密，尤其是在针对俄罗斯的调查尚在进行期间。但科米还是去了，因为觉得自己无法拒绝和新总统会面。
During the meal, according to the account of the two associates, Mr. Comey tried to explain to Mr. Trump how he saw his role as F.B.I. director. Mr. Comey told Mr. Trump that the country would be best served by an independent F.B.I. and Justice Department.
科米的两名身边人说，进餐期间，科米试图向特朗普解释，他是如何看待联邦调查局局长这个角色的。科米告诉特朗普，独立的联邦调查局和司法部能够更好地服务于这个国家。
In announcing Mr. Comey’s dismissal on Tuesday, the White House released documents from the attorney general and the deputy attorney general that outlined why Mr. Comey should be dismissed.
于周二宣布科米被解职时，白宫发布了来自司法部长和副部长的文件。那些文件概述了科米被解职的原因。
Mr. Trump said in the NBC interview that “regardless of recommendation I was going to fire Comey.”
特朗普接受NBC采访时说，“无论收到什么样的建议，我都会炒了科米。”
“In fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story,” Mr. Trump said.
“事实上，当我下定决心只管去做时，我告诉自己，我说你知道的，关于特朗普和俄罗斯的这种通俄之说，完全是胡编乱造，”特朗普说。