My whole life I have taken for granted America’s leadership in the world. America’s might and majesty were cornerstones of international relations, cooperation and diplomacy. We were a beacon and balance to the world. America has been imperfect — sometimes disastrously so — but it always seemed to me bent toward the belief that America and the world could be made more perfect.
我这辈子都把美国在世界上的领导地位当成天经地义的事。美国的力量和威严是国际关系、国际合作与外交的基础。我们是这个世界上的灯塔与天平。美国并不完美——有时甚至是一团糟——但是我似乎总会认为美国和世界可以变得更加完美。
Well, that time has come to a close. America is exiting the world stage. Donald Trump is drawing the curtains.
好吧，这样的时代已经结束了。美国正在走下世界舞台。唐纳德·特朗普正在为它拉下帷幕。
On Trump’s first full weekday in office, he, and thus America, abandoned the Trans-Pacific Partnership. As The New York Times reported it:
在特朗普入主白宫的第一个完整的工作日，他代表美国，放弃了“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans-Pacific Partnership)。正如《纽约时报》报道的：
“President Trump upended America’s traditional, bipartisan trade policy on Monday as he formally abandoned the ambitious, 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership brokered by his predecessor and declared an end to the era of multinational trade agreements that defined global economics for decades.”
“特朗普总统于周一正式放弃了一个雄心勃勃、由其前任从中协调的12国‘跨太平洋伙伴关系协定’，几十年来定义着全球经济的跨国贸易协定时代就此告终，从而也终结了美国为两党所共同拥护的传统贸易政策。”
Trump has had, and continues to have, an unhealthy and inexplicable admiration for the world’s strongmen, dictators and authoritarian regimes — Russia and Vladimir Putin stand out among the rest — while simultaneously chiding and chastising America’s traditional allies and those countries’ leaders.
特朗普一直对世界上的各种铁腕人物、独裁者和专制政权表现出不健康和莫名其妙的钦佩——尤其是俄罗斯和弗拉基米尔·普京——与此同时还去指责和抨击美国的传统盟国以及这些国家的领导人。
From the way Trump has treated America’s neighbors — Mexico about immigrants and the financing of his ridiculous wall, Canada over trade practices on energy, lumber and dairy (he called policies surrounding dairy trade “a disgrace”) — to the way he has treated our friends in Europe, Trump is singlehandedly ushering in a new era of American decline.
看看特朗普对墨西哥移民问题的处理，他是怎样要求墨西哥为他那可笑的隔离墙出资；还有他就能源、木材与乳品贸易对加拿大说的话（他说涉及乳品贸易的政策是“耻辱”）——从这些对待邻国的手段，到他对待欧洲朋友的方式，特朗普可谓一手开启了美国衰落的新纪元。
Last month in Europe, Trump was as boorish and belligerent as it was possible to be, lashing out at our NATO allies about their defense spending just after having been gracious and magnanimous to leaders in the Middle East.
上个月，特朗普刚以亲切宽宏的态度会见过中东的几位领导人，之后马上极尽粗鲁好斗之能事，就防务开支问题训斥我们的北约盟友。
Then last week Trump thumbed his nose at the world and the planet by announcing that he would pull America out of the Paris climate accord, even though a Yale survey found the agreement was popular and a majority of Americans in every state — including those that Trump won — wanted the United States to stay in the agreement.
然后是上周，特朗普冲着世界和地球表示了自己的蔑视态度，宣布他将让美国退出巴黎气候协议，尽管耶鲁大学的调查发现，这个协议很受欢迎，每个州希望美国继续留在协议里的人都占多数——包括那些特朗普赢下的州。
But even beyond whether or not it was popular, staying in was right. More than 190 countries — most of the countries on the planet — are signatories to the agreement. We have one planet. It is in trouble. The world must band together to save it. How does it look for the world’s last remaining superpower to simply walk away?
但是，即便不考虑是否受欢迎的问题，留在协议里也是正确的事情。190多个国家——也就是地球上的绝大多数国家——都签署了这个协定。我们只有一个地球。它现在有麻烦了。整个世界必须团结起来拯救它。然而世界上仅存的最后一个超级大国就这么退出了，这看上去怎么样呢？
This is not putting America first, this is putting America on a path of regression and isolationism. This is putting our future and the future of the planet in peril. This is dumb, hazardous and shortsighted.
这不是把美国摆在优先的位置，而是把美国摆在倒退和孤立主义的道路上。这是把我们的未来与地球的未来置于危险的境地。这是愚蠢、危险和短视的。
Trump justified his move using faulty information, citing issues that are not even in the agreement and flat-out lying. What else is new? Perhaps his most memorable line from his speech about the withdrawal was:
特朗普使用错误的信息来捍卫他的举动，引用甚至没有在协议中出现的议题和赤裸裸的谎言。还有什么新鲜的？在他关于退出巴黎协定的演讲中，或许最难忘的是这句话：
“I was elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris. I promised I would exit or renegotiate any deal which fails to serve America’s interests.”
“我被选来代表匹兹堡的市民，而不是巴黎的市民。我曾承诺会退出或重新谈判任何不符合美国利益的协议。”
The problem is that, as PolitiFact pointed out:
问题是，正如PolitiFact网站指出的那样：
“Clinton won almost 60 percent of the vote in Allegheny County, which includes Pittsburgh. The percentage was even higher in many precincts within the city of Pittsburgh itself. (Allegheny County includes a range of suburbs in addition to the city.)”
“克林顿在阿勒格尼县赢得了近60％的选票，其中包括匹兹堡。她在匹兹堡市内许多选区的赢得选票的比例甚至更高。（阿勒格尼县除了匹兹堡市区还包括一系列郊区。）”
Indeed, the mayor of Pittsburgh, Bill Peduto, told CNN after the speech: “The city of Pittsburgh voted for Hillary Clinton with nearly 80 percent of the vote.” Later on CNN, Peduto was asked if he had a message for Trump. Peduto responded: “What you did was not only bad for the economy of this country, but also weakened America in this world.”
事实上，在特朗普的演讲结束之后，匹兹堡市长比尔·佩杜托(Bill Peduto)对CNN记者说：“匹兹堡市接近80％的选票都投给了希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。”后来在CNN节目中，佩杜托被问及是否有话要带给特朗普。他答道：“你所做的事情不仅对这个国家的经济不利，而且也削弱了美国在世界上的地位。”
In fact, mayors, governors and business leaders across the country were quick to rebuke Trump’s horrendous decision and to dedicate themselves to the spirit of the agreement.
事实上，全国各地的市长、州长和商界领袖都很快就开始谴责特朗普的可怕决定，并表示自己会忠于协议的精神。
Then, for me, the icing on the cake was Trump’s absolute lack of grace and tact in his response to the London terror attacks over the weekend. His first response was not to express his horror and extend America’s condolences and offer American assistance. No, that would have required that he possess a shred of empathy and common decency.
这周末，特朗普对伦敦恐怖袭击的反应完全没有风度和技巧可言，这对我来说真像是锦上添花。他的第一个回应不是表达自己的不安，致上美国的慰问，并且代表美国提供援助。不，要做出这样的回应，就需要拥有一丝丝的同理心和起码的礼貌。
Instead, his first instinct was to use the attacks as political fodder to advance his own failed domestic agenda to impose a “travel ban.”
相反，他最初的本能是利用这些攻击作为政治资本，推动他的“旅行禁令”，这项已遭失败的国内议程。
Shortly after the attacks, while people were still trying to get their minds around what exactly had happened in London, Trump tweeted:
袭击不久之后，人们还没有从伦敦发生的一切当中回过神来，特朗普就发推说：
“We need to be smart, vigilant and tough. We need the courts to give us back our rights. We need the Travel Ban as an extra level of safety!”
“我们需要的是精明、警觉和强硬。我们需要法院把权利还给我们。我们需要旅行禁令提供更高的安全水平！”
(Note that Trump again calls it a “ban,” although White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, who retweeted this message, scolded the media in January for calling Trump’s ban a ban, saying: “This is not a Muslim ban, it’s not a travel ban, it’s a vetting system to keep America safe.” Trump is killing himself in the courts with his own words.)
（请注意，特朗普再次称其为“禁令”，尽管转发了这则推文的白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞[Sean Spicer]曾于1月份斥责媒体将特朗普的禁令称为“禁令”，他当时说：“这不是针对穆斯林的禁令，这不是旅行禁令，这是一个审查系统，用来保护美国的安全。”特朗普这番话上了法庭就死定了。）
Trump is pulling America back and pulling America down. We are now witnessing the incredible shrinking America, and it’s a sad sight to behold.
特朗普一边把美国推向倒退的路上，一边拉低美国的世界地位。如今的我们正在见证这个国家令人难以置信的萎缩，真是令人黯然神伤。