As President Trump ended his first 100 days in office last week, I found myself in China, a good place to judge how he has transformed the presidency’s bully pulpit.
上周，特朗普总统上任满100天，而我当时身在中国，那里是评判他如何改变总统天字第一号讲坛的好地方。
During the campaign, Mr. Trump denounced Chinese trade policies. In early April, when President Trump met President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla., he continued the tough talk. He and his aides told the Chinese delegation that the administration would impose restrictions on Chinese investments in the United States if Beijing did not lower its barriers to American investments in China.
特朗普在竞选期间谴责中国的贸易政策。4月初，特朗普总统在佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园会见中国国家主席习近平时，继续保持这种强硬的论调。他和助手们向中国代表团表示，如果北京不降低美国在华投资的壁垒，美国政府将对中国在美国的投资加以限制。
It is too soon to tell whether the Chinese will change their policies. But there are signs that the president’s antagonistic approach has opened the door to strategic cooperation on one of the world’s biggest problems: North Korea’s nuclear weapons program.
现在判断中国是否会改变政策为时尚早。不过有迹象表明，总统的对抗性做法为世界上最重大的一个问题的战略合作打开了大门：朝鲜的核武器计划。
China already has suspended coal imports from Pyongyang in compliance with United Nations sanctions, and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said that China would impose more sanctions if North Korea continues its nuclear testing program. China’s foreign ministry spokesman said last week, “I can say in terms of solving the North Korean crisis, China’s efforts can’t be overstated.”
中国已经按照联合国的制裁暂停从平壤进口煤炭。美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)表示，如果朝鲜继续进行核试验，中国将施加更多制裁。上周，中国外交部发言人表示，“可以说，在推动解决半岛核问题方面，中国的努力不可或缺，中国的贡献有目共睹。”
There are also signs that Mr. Trump’s style is resonating with ordinary Chinese. Considering the harshness of his past statements about China, I was surprised by the number of people I met there who expressed respect for him. “He is a very successful businessman,” one said. “He is strong,” another said. One person noted, “I think in the past your country respected such people.”
而且有迹象表明，特朗普的风格引起了普通中国人的共鸣。考虑到过去他对中国发表的尖刻言论，我为我在那里见到的很多人对他表达的尊重感到惊讶。“他是一名非常成功的商人，”有个人说。“他很强悍，”另一个说。还有一个人指出：“我觉得，你们的国家在过去是尊重这种人的。”
Apparently, the Chinese never took Mr. Trump’s campaign rhetoric personally. They saw it as his starting point — a “negotiating position,” as Mr. Trump himself might say.
很显然，中国人从没被特朗普竞选期间的言论所冒犯。他们认为那是他的起点——特朗普本人可能会说，那是“谈判的位置”。
At home, President Trump is garnering far less reverence. Our political and media elites, along with Democratic critics, see Mr. Trump as overly provocative, unbalanced and lacking in any real results. They point to his thin legislative record.
在国内，特朗普总统获得的敬畏要少得多。我们的政治和媒体精英以及民主党评论人士认为特朗普过于挑衅，不稳定，没有实现任何真正的成果。他们会指向他在立法方面微不足道的成果。
But those critics have failed to appreciate how Mr. Trump’s strong positions on foreign policy have had a positive impact. The president has put North Korea on notice while bolstering South Korea with the Thaad missile defense system. Even as he has voiced support for NATO, he has continued to demand that its members pay their fair share for defense — likely a factor in Germany’s decision to increase its troop strength.
但是，那些评论人士没有注意到特朗普在外交政策上的强硬立场如何产生了积极的影响。总统正式警告了朝鲜，同时通过萨德导弹防御系统支持韩国。他虽然表示支持北约，但继续要求其成员国支付自己那一份军费——这很可能是导致德国决定增加军力的一个因素。
Struck by the inhumanity of Syria’s use of chemical weapons on innocent civilians, the president struck back in a measured way, ordering a strike of 59 Tomahawk missiles. Rogue actors like President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and his Iranian benefactors have been warned.
总统为叙利亚对无辜平民使用化学武器的不人道行为感到震惊，以有节制的方式予以回击，下令发射59枚战斧导弹。借此警告了叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)和他的伊朗资助者等无赖角色。
Mr. Trump has also shown the ability to learn on the job, having become a realist toward Russia and shown new caution in dealings with two allies, Turkey and Israel. On Iran, he has expressed flexibility regarding the nuclear deal he once denounced.
特朗普也表现出在工作中学习的能力，他对俄罗斯的态度变得更现实，并在与两个盟国土耳其和以色列的交往中表现出新的谨慎态度。在伊朗问题上，他对自己曾经谴责的核协议表达了灵活态度。
Mr. Trump has also used his White House platform to begin changing sclerotic domestic policies and politics. In shaking the tree, he is causing old leaves to fall even as healthy ones remain in place, still strong.
特朗普还利用白宫的平台开始改变僵化的国内政策和政治。他摇落了枯叶，而健康的叶子还挂在原位，依然坚挺。
Simply by stepping up enforcement against undocumented workers, he has caused word to spread south of the border. Today, apprehensions of people crossing the southwest border illegally from Mexico are down 61 percent from January.
仅仅通过加强对无证劳工的执法力度，他就让消息在边境以南散布开来。从今年1月起，因从墨西哥非法穿越西南边境而遭到逮捕的人数下降了61%。
The president’s policies have created a virtual wall, one that may obviate the need for the $20 billion eyesore after all.
总统的政策创造了一道虚拟的墙，从而可能根本不必花费200亿美元去建那个碍眼的东西。
Mr. Trump has also already forced American companies to think twice about exporting jobs. And one conservative organization estimates his efforts to eliminate onerous and expensive regulations could save American businesses and consumers $60 billion or more.
特朗普也已迫使美国公司在把工作外包到国外时三思而行。据一个保守主义组织估计，他取消繁琐昂贵的法规的举措可以为美国企业和消费者节省逾600亿美元。
I know some of Mr. Trump’s proposals seem frightening to many people. His budget calls for draconian cuts, such as reducing State Department spending by 28 percent and eliminating federal support for beloved programs like PBS and the National Endowment for the Arts.
我知道特朗普的某些提议在很多人看来似乎很可怕。他要求大量削减预算，比如将国务院的支出减少28%，取消联邦对PBS和国家艺术基金(National Endowment for the Arts)等受欢迎项目的支持。
His tax plan also might look as if it benefits mainly wealthy individuals and businesses, slashing the corporate tax rate to just 15 percent, from 35 percent.
他的税收计划把公司税率从35%削减至15%，似乎主要有益于富有的个人和企业。
But remember, for Mr. Trump these things are opening bids. Knowing him as I do, as a friend, I can imagine a more modest final budget that leaves most programs intact and compromises on a corporate tax rate of 25 percent. At the end of the day, Donald Trump is a dealmaker.
但请记住，对特朗普来说，这些都只是开价而已。以我这个朋友对他的了解，我可以预见最终的预算会更温和，大部分项目不会受到影响，公司税率在协商后会调至25%。说到底，唐纳德·特朗普是一位交易者。
At 70, he is also not about to change. He won’t stop saying things that rub people the wrong way. And he will not stop tweeting — nor should he (though perhaps there should be a process for reviewing his tweets before posting). His theatrical persona, his rallies and his hyperbolic tweets have become the “big stick” he waves from his transformed bully pulpit.
他在70岁高龄，也不太会变了。他不会停止说一些惹怒人们的话。他不会停止在Twitter上发帖——他也不应该停止（不过也许在发布之前应该加一个审查过程）。他戏剧性的性格、他的集会和他夸张的推文已经成了他站在自己改造过的白宫讲台上挥舞的“大棒”。
Through his message he has moved markets, steered global business in a better direction for American companies and defended American workers. He has also put bad actors, domestic and foreign, on notice.
他通过自己发布的消息撼动了市场，引导全球商业向更利于美国公司的方向转变，维护了美国工人的利益。他也警告了国内外的顽劣分子。
Even I do not agree with everything the president says or does. But we should be willing to recognize that, at times, he can be very effective.
尽管我并不赞同总统所说和所做的一切。但我们应该承认，他的作用可以是很有效的。