JERUSALEM — Donald J. Trump’s stunning election victory on Tuesday night rippled way beyond the nation’s boundaries, upending an international order that prevailed for decades and raising profound questions about America’s place in the world.
耶路撒冷——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在周二晚的选举中获得了惊人的胜利，其影响超出了国界，颠覆了通行几十年的国际秩序，令人们对美国在世界上的位置产生了深刻的疑问。
For the first time since before World War II, Americans chose a president who promised to reverse the internationalism practiced by predecessors of both parties and to build walls both physical and metaphorical. Mr. Trump’s win foreshadowed an America more focused on its own affairs while leaving the world to take care of itself.
第二次世界大战之后，美国人第一次选出了这样一位总统，他承诺推翻来自两党的历任总统们一直实行的国际主义，并建立实体与隐喻意义上的双重高墙。特朗普的获胜预示着一个更关注自身事务，让世界的其余地方好自为之的美国。
The outsider revolution that propelled him to power over the Washington establishment of both political parties also reflected a fundamental shift in international politics evidenced already this year by events like Britain’s referendum vote to leave the European Union. Mr. Trump’s success could fuel the populist, nativist, nationalist, closed-border movements already so evident in Europe and spreading to other parts of the world.
这场将他推向华盛顿两党统治高位的局外人革命，反映了国际政治的根本变化，这种变化从今年英国公投脱离欧盟等事件已经可以看出端倪。特朗普的胜利，对于在欧洲已显而易见并逐步蔓延到世界其他地方的民粹主义、本土主义、民族主义和封锁边境运动来说，堪称火上浇油。
The results of Tuesday’s election left many around the world scrambling to figure out what it might mean in parochial terms. For Mexico, it seemed to presage a new era of confrontation with its northern neighbor. For Europe and Asia, it could rewrite the rules of modern alliances, trade deals, and foreign aid. For the Middle East, it foreshadowed a possible alignment with Russia and fresh conflict with Iran.
世界各地的许多人纷纷在思考周二的选举结果对于自己所在的地方意味着什么。对于墨西哥来说，这似乎意味着自己与这位北方邻居的关系进入了新时代。对于欧洲与亚洲来说，这可能会重写现代联盟、贸易协定与外国援助的规则。对于中东来说，这意味着它有可能与俄罗斯结盟，并与伊朗产生新的冲突。
“All bets are off,” said Agustín Barrios Gómez, a former congressman in Mexico and president of the Mexico Image Foundation, an organization dedicated to promoting its reputation abroad.
“什么都有可能发生，”墨西哥前国会议员与墨西哥形象基金会(Mexico Image Foundation)主席奥古斯汀·巴里奥斯·戈麦斯(Agustín Barrios Gómez)说，该基金会是一个旨在提升墨西哥海外形象的组织。
Crispin Blunt, chairman of the foreign affairs committee in Britain’s House of Commons, said, “We are plunged into uncertainty and the unknown.”
英国下议院外交事务委员会主席克里斯平·布朗特(Crispin Blunt)说，“我们一头冲进一个充满不确定性的未知世界。”
The election enthralled people around the world on Tuesday night: night owls watching television in a youth hostel in Tel Aviv; computer technicians monitoring results on their laptops in Hong Kong; and even onetime oil pipeline terrorists in Nigeria’s remote Delta creeks, who expressed concern about how Mr. Trump’s election would affect their country.
周二晚上，选举在世界各地都吸引了人们的关注：在特拉维夫的青年旅社里，熬夜不睡的人们目不转睛地看着电视；在香港，技术人员用笔记本电脑密切监控着选举结果；就连在偏远的尼日利亚三角洲河口，曾经是石油管道恐怖分子的人们也关心特朗普当选后对他们的国家会有什么样的影响。
It is hardly surprising that much of the world was rooting for Hillary Clinton over Mr. Trump, who characterized his foreign policy as “America First.”
不出意料，世界上许多人都更支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，而不是把自己的外交政策总结为“美国优先”的特朗普。
He promised to build a wall along the Mexican border and temporarily bar Muslim immigrants from entering the United States. He questioned Washington’s longstanding commitment to NATO allies, called for cutting foreign aid, praised President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, vowed to rip up international trade deals and suggested Asian allies develop nuclear weapons.
他承诺沿墨西哥边境建立起一道高墙，暂时禁止穆斯林移民进入美国。他质疑华盛顿对北约盟国的长期义务，呼吁减少对外援助，他对俄罗斯的弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统称赞有加，发誓撕毁国际贸易协定，他还建议亚洲盟国发展核武器。
Polls indicated that Mrs. Clinton was favored in many countries, with the exception of Russia and perhaps Israel, where surveys conflicted. Last summer, the Pew Research Center found that people in all 15 countries it surveyed trusted Mrs. Clinton to do the right thing in foreign affairs more than Mr. Trump by ratios as high as 10 to one.
民意调查显示克林顿在许多国家都更受欢迎，除了俄罗斯，或许还有以色列——那里的调查结果存在冲突。去年夏天，皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)在15个国家的调查结果显示，在这些国家里，相信克林顿在外交方面能比特朗普做得更好的人是持相反意见者的10倍。
Mr. Trump’s promise to pull back militarily and economically left many overseas contemplating a road ahead without an American ally.
特朗普对于撤回军事力量与经济援助的承诺令许多国家开始提前思考，如果失去了美国这个盟友该怎么办。
“The question is whether you will continue to be involved in international affairs as a dependable ally to your friends and allies,” said Kunihiko Miyake, a former Japanese diplomat now teaching at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. “If you stop doing that, then all the European, Middle Eastern and Asian allies to the United States will reconsider how they secure themselves.”
“关键在于，你是否继续以一个让朋友和盟国们觉得可靠的盟友身份参与国际事务，”现在京都市立命馆大学教书的前日本外交家宫家邦彦(Kunihiko Miyake)说，“如果不是这样，美国在欧洲、中东与亚洲的所有盟国都要考虑如何保护自己。”
In Germany, where American troops have been stationed for more than seven decades, the prospect of a pullback seemed bewildering. “It would be the end of an era,” Henrik Müller, a journalism professor at the Technical University of Dortmund, wrote in Der Spiegel. “The postwar era in which Americans’ atomic weapons and its military presence in Europe shielded first the west and later the central European states would be over. Europe would have to take care of its own security.”
在美国军队已经驻扎了70多年的德国，撤军的可能性显得难以置信。“这是一个时代的终结，”多特蒙德工业大学(Technical University of Dortmund)的新闻学教授亨里克·穆勒(Henrik Müller)为《明镜周刊》(Der Spiegel)撰文称。“战后时代，美国的核武器以及它在欧洲的军事力量先是保护着西欧，然后又保护了中欧各国，如今就这一切就要完结了。今后欧洲不得不自行维护自己的安全。”
Norbert Röttgen, chairman of the German parliamentary committee for foreign policy and a member of the ruling party, said Mr. Trump was “completely inadequate” to his office. “That Trump’s election could lead to the worst estrangement between America and Europe since the Vietnam War would be the least of the damage,” he said.
德国议会外交事务委员会主席、执政党成员诺伯特·勒特根(Norbert Röttgen)称，特朗普“完全不能胜任”美国总统的职位。“特朗普当选会导致美国和欧洲的关系达到越战以来最疏远的程度，而这还只是最小的损失，”他说。 
Perhaps nowhere was Mr. Trump’s win more alarming than in Mexico, which has objected to his promises to build a wall and bill America’s southern neighbor for it.
也许，最为特朗普胜选担忧的是墨西哥，它反对特朗普要求美国的南部邻国出资修墙的承诺。 
“I see a clear and present danger,” said Rossana Fuentes-Berain, director of the Mexico Media Lab, a think tank, and a founder of the Latin American edition of Foreign Affairs. “Every moment will be a challenge. Every move or declaration will be something that will not make us comfortable in the neighborhood — and that is to everyone’s detriment.”
“我清楚地看到马上就有危险，”智库墨西哥媒体实验室(Mexico Media Lab)主任、《外交事务》(Foreign Affairs)拉美版创始人罗萨娜·富恩特-贝兰(Rossana Fuentes-Berain)说。“每个时刻都将是挑战。每一个举措或声明都会让我们这些邻国感到不适——那是对所有人的伤害。”
With about $531 billion in trade last year, Mexico is America’s third-largest partner after Canada and China. Supply chains in both countries are interdependent, with American goods and parts shipped to Mexican factories to build products that are shipped back into the United States for sale. Five million American jobs directly depend on trade with Mexico, according to the Mexico Institute.
墨西哥是美国的第三大贸易伙伴，仅次于加拿大和中国，去年美墨贸易总额约为5310亿美元。两国的供应链相互依赖，美国的商品和零件运到墨西哥的工厂，生产出来的商品再运回美国销售。据墨西哥研究所(Mexico Institute)称，500万个美国工作岗位直接依赖于与墨西哥的贸易。
Mr. Barrios Gómez, the former congressman, predicted a short-term peso devaluation of 20 percent and a Mexican recession “as supply chains across the continent become sclerotic and investments dry up.” The business community, he said, was “freaking out.”
前国会议员巴里奥斯·戈麦斯(Barrios Gómez)预测，墨西哥比索短期内会贬值20%，墨西哥经济会衰退，因为“整个大陆的供应链会僵化，投资会干涸”。他说，工商界感到“异常的恐惧”。 
The economic fallout will probably reverberate farther. Izumi Kobayashi, vice chairman of Keizai Doyukai, a Japanese business group, predicted a drop in foreign investment in the United States as executives skeptical of Mr. Trump wait to see what he does.
对经济的负面影响很可能会进一步蔓延。日本商业团体经济同友会(Keizai Doyukai)副主席小林泉美（Izumi Kobayashi，音）预测，美国的外来投资会缩水，因为对特朗普持怀疑态度的高管们会静观他的举措。
“He has been focusing on the negative side of the global markets and globalization,” Mr. Kobayashi said. “But at the same time it is really difficult to go back to the old business world. So how will he explain to the people that benefit and also the fact that there is no option to go back to the old model of business?”
“他一直关注全球市场和全球化的负面影响，”小林说，“但与此同时，你很难回到旧的商业世界。所以，他该如何向那些受益于全球化的人解释？又该如何解释不可能回到旧的商业模式的事实？” 
The uneasiness with Mr. Trump’s victory overseas ranged far beyond the country’s traditional partners. Abubakar Kari, a political-science professor at the University of Abuja, said most Nigerians believed a Trump administration would not bother with issues outside the United States.
特朗普的获胜在海外引起的不安远不只存在于美国的传统伙伴之中。阿布贾大学(University of Abuja)政治学教授阿布巴卡尔·卡里(Abubakar Kari)称，大部分尼日利亚人认为，特朗普政府不会关心美国之外的事务。
“If Trump wins, God forbid,” Macharia Gaitho, one of Kenya’s most popular columnists, wrote on Tuesday before the votes came in, “then we will have to reassess our relations with the United States.”
“如果特朗普获胜，就糟糕至极了，”肯尼亚最受欢迎的一位专栏作家马查里亚·盖托(Macharia Gaitho)周二在选举开始前写道，“那么我们将不得不重新审视与美国的关系。” 
One of the few places where Mr. Trump’s victory was greeted enthusiastically was Russia, where state-controlled television has been feasting on the circuslike elements of the American election. Not since the Cold War has Russia played such a big role in a presidential election, with Mr. Trump praising Mr. Putin and American investigators concluding that Russians had hacked Democratic email messages.
少数几个热情欢迎特朗普获胜的地方包括俄罗斯。国家控制的电视台尽情享受美国大选中耍马戏般的元素。自冷战结束以来，俄罗斯从未在一场总统大选中扮演过如此重要的角色——特朗普称赞了普京；美国调查者认为是俄罗斯黑客攻击了民主党的邮箱。 
“Trump’s presidency will make the U.S. sink into a full-blown crisis, including an economic one,” said Vladimir Frolov, a Russian columnist and international affairs analyst. “The U.S. will be occupied with its own issues and will not bother Putin with questions.”
“特朗普当选总统会让美国陷入全面危机，包括经济危机，”俄罗斯专栏作家、国际事务分析人士弗拉基米尔·弗罗洛夫(Vladimir Frolov)称，“美国将忙于自己的问题，不会来招惹普京。” 
“As a consequence,” he added, “Moscow will have a window of opportunity in geopolitical terms. For instance, it can claim control over the former Soviet Union and a part of the Middle East. What is there not to like?”
“所以，”他还说，“从地缘政治学角度讲，莫斯科将有一个机会窗口。比如，它能尝试掌控前苏联的疆域和中东的一部分。这有什么不好呢？”
Others tried to find the upside. Mr. Blunt, the British lawmaker, said he was heartened by Mr. Trump’s selection of Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana as his running mate and thought that Britain might be the exception to the new president’s hostility toward trade deals.
其他一些人试图发现积极的一面。英国议员布伦特说他对特朗普选择印第安纳州州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)作为竞选搭档感到欣慰，并认为这位新总统虽然厌恶贸易协议，但可能会对英国网开一面。
Israel was another place where Mr. Trump enjoyed some support, mainly because of the perception that he would give the country a freer hand in its handling of the longstanding conflict with the Palestinians. But Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other Israeli leaders and commentators worried about a broader disengagement from a Middle East awash in war, terrorism and upheaval.
特朗普在以色列也得到了一些支持，这主要是因为有观点认为他会放手让该国更加自由地去处理与巴勒斯坦的长期冲突。但本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)总理等以色列领导人和一些评论人士担心，美国会进一步从充斥着战乱、恐怖主义和动荡不安的中东地区抽身。
“Decisions cannot be postponed,” said Yohanan Plesner, a former member of the Israeli Parliament now serving as president of the Israel Democracy Institute. “The situation in Syria is very chaotic. The unrest in the region is continuing. America has to decide whether it wants to play an active role in shaping the developments of the region.”
“决策是无法推迟的，”曾在以色列国会担任议员，现为以色列民主研究所(Israel Democracy Institute)所长的约哈南·普莱斯纳(Yohanan Plesner)说。“叙利亚的局面非常混乱。该地区依然动荡不安。美国必须决定，它是否想要在塑造该地区发展进程方面发挥积极作用。”
And even some countries that might expect to see some benefits from an American retreat worried about the implications.
此外，就连一些或许期待从美国的撤退中获得某些好处的国家，也对相关影响感到担忧。
For American voters, that was not the point. After decades of worrying about what was good for other countries, they decided it was time to worry about what was good for America. And Mr. Trump promised to do just that, even if the rest of the world might not like it.
对美国选民来说，这并不重要。过去数十年里他们一直忧心于怎么做才对其他国家有利，现在则认为是时候去考虑怎么做才对美国有利了。而特朗普已经承诺要如此行事，即便世界上其他地方的人或许并不愿看到这种情形。