MANILA — President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines said on Monday that he might not accept President Trump’s invitation to visit the White House, because he was “tied up” with a busy schedule.
马尼拉——菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)周一表示，由于日程安排“很紧”，他可能不会接受特朗普总统向他发出的访问白宫的邀请。
“I cannot make any definite promise,” Mr. Duterte said, adding, “I’m supposed to go to Russia; I’m also supposed to go to Israel.”
“我无法做出明确的承诺，”杜特地说，并说，“按理我应该去俄罗斯，还有以色列。”
Mr. Trump’s invitation on Saturday to Mr. Duterte, an authoritarian leader who has been accused of ordering extrajudicial killings of drug suspects, drew criticism from human rights advocates, who said such a visit would amount to a White House endorsement of Mr. Duterte’s policies. Thousands of people have been gunned down in the Philippines since Mr. Duterte took office in June, promising a crackdown on narcotics.
特朗普是星期六发出邀请的，这名强权领导人被指下令对毒品犯罪嫌疑人展开法外杀戮，遭到人权倡导者的谴责，他们表示，这样的访问将相当于是白宫对杜特地政策的认可。杜特地承诺要打击麻醉品，自他去年6月份上任以来，菲律宾已经有数以千计的人被枪杀。
White House officials said Mr. Trump had called Mr. Duterte in an effort to mend their countries’ recently strained relationship. Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, said Mr. Trump also wanted to build a united front in Asia in opposition to North Korea’s pursuit of nuclear and missile technology.
白宫官员说，特朗普打电话给杜特地是想修复最近两国之间的紧张关系。白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)表示，特朗普还想在亚洲建立联合战线，遏制朝鲜的核与导弹技术发展。
Mr. Duterte said his conversation with Mr. Trump had been amicable, and that he had urged the American leader to tread carefully with North Korea. “Our greatest chance there of getting some dialogue with America and North Korea would be through the intercession of China,” he said.
杜特地说，他与特朗普之间的谈话是友好的，他已经敦促特朗普在和朝鲜打交道时要小心。他说：“美国和朝鲜进行对话的最大机会，就是让中国从中调停。”
Josh Kurlantzick, a senior fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations, said he expected Mr. Duterte would still come to the United States, but he may not want to seem too eager to do so.
美国外交关系协会高级研究员约书亚·科兰滋克(Joshua Kurlantzick)预计，杜特地仍然会来美国，但是他也许不希望看起来太急切了。
“Even though he welcomes a better relationship with this U.S. president, he wants to be cautious that he does not appear to be embracing the U.S. too much, given that he has devoted a fair amount of diplomatic resources to courting China,” Mr. Kurlantzick said.
“虽然乐于和美国总统改善关系，他也想谨慎行事，不希望显得太热衷于亲近美国，因为他已经投入了大量的外交资源去拉拢中国了，”科兰滋克说。
Mr. Trump continued his efforts at Southeast Asian diplomacy on Sunday when he called Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore and Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha, prime minister of Thailand, and invited them to the White House. Human rights advocates have criticized General Prayuth, who seized power in a 2014 coup, for the crackdown on civil liberties by his military government.
特朗普周日继续其东南亚外交努力，他打电话给新加坡总理李显龙和泰国总理巴育·占奥差将军(Gen. Prayuth Chan-ocha)，邀请他们访问白宫。人权倡导者批评巴育将军在2014年政变中夺权，他的军政府压制了公民自由。
The calls over the weekend are a sign that Mr. Trump wants to focus on developing ties with traditional American allies in Southeast Asia, said Bonnie S. Glaser, senior adviser for Asia with the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)亚洲事务高级顾问葛来仪(Bonnie S. Glaser)说，周末的这通电话显示特朗普要重点发展与美国在东南亚传统盟友的关系。
“It doesn’t surprise me that these three countries were called in a two-day period,” Ms. Glaser said. “It seems to be a clear signal they do want strengthen these relationships.”
葛来仪说：“他在两天的时间里和这三个国家通了电话，我并不感到意外。这似乎是一个明确的信号，表示他们希望增进这些关系。”
That willingness even extended to North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. On Monday, Mr. Trump told Bloomberg News that he was open to meeting Mr. Kim “under the right circumstances.”
这种意愿甚至延伸到朝鲜领导人金正恩那里。特朗普周一告诉彭博社，他愿意在“合适的情况下”会见金正恩。
Mr. Duterte, who once referred to President Barack Obama as a “son of a whore,” suggested on Monday that his differences with the United States had had much to do with Mr. Obama. “It was not a distancing, but it was rather a rift between me, maybe, and the State Department and Mr. Obama, who spoke openly against me,” Mr. Duterte said.
杜特地曾经说奥巴马总统的“狗娘养的”，他周一表示，他与美国之间的分歧在很大程度上和奥巴马有关系。杜特地说：“我和美国国务院以及奥巴马之间不是疏远，而是不和，奥巴马曾经公开反对我。”
He added: “Things have changed. There’s a new leadership.”
他说：“事情发生了变化。现在美国有一个新的领导人了。”
Criticism of Mr. Trump’s invitation to Mr. Duterte continued on Monday. “Countries with close bilateral ties to the Philippines, particularly the United States, have an obligation to urge accountability for the victims of Duterte’s abusive drug war, rather than offer to roll out the red carpet for official state visits with its mastermind,” said Phelim Kine, a deputy director in Human Rights Watch’s Asia division.
周一，一些组织仍在批评特朗普邀请杜特地访美的做法。“与菲律宾有密切关系的国家，特别是美国，有义务敦促杜特地对毒品之战中的受害者负起责任来，而不是铺上红毯，邀请他进行正式的国事，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)亚洲分部副主任林海(Phelim Kine)表示。