Of all the stains besmirching the Trump presidency — the ethical lacunae, the spasmodic “policy” fits, the Golf Digest aesthetic — none looms so large as the absence of a White House pet. Breathes there a man with a soul so dead that he doesn’t want a loyal dog or faithful feline trotting beside him when he mounts that lonely staircase to the venerable Master Bedroom?
道德缺陷、痉挛式的“政策”发作、《高尔夫文摘》(Golf Digest)审美，在破坏特朗普总统声誉的所有污点中，没有一个像白宫没有宠物这一点这么突出。是因为住在那里的那个人虽然还活着，但他的灵魂已经死去，因此不需要在沿着孤独的楼梯走向那间让人肃然起敬的主卧时，有一只忠诚的狗或猫在自己身旁跑来跑去吗？
Apparently, yes.
似乎是的。
It seems emblematic of President Trump’s blaring tone-deafness for the office that he doesn’t even feign interest in recruiting a furry, fowlish or finny friend. Pets reap vast, humanizing rewards for presidents, as almost every one of his predecessors has discovered.
他甚至都没有假装有意增添一个爬行类、飞行类或鱼类朋友。这似乎彰显了特朗普总统对这个办公室明显不关心，宠物会给总统带来巨大的、人性化的回报，特朗普的几乎所有前任都发现了这一点。
The White House has at various times hosted snakes, a badger, a lion, a hyena, zebra, bears and even elephants, gifted to James Buchanan from the king of Siam, present-day Thailand. The animal lover and killer Theodore Roosevelt doubled as zookeeper, sheltering such exotic charges as the guinea pig Admiral Dewey and Jonathan Edwards, a small bear.
白宫在不同时期饲养过蛇、獾、狮子、鬣狗、斑马、熊，甚至还有几头大象，那是暹罗即现在的泰国国王送给詹姆斯·布坎南(James Buchanan)的礼物。既喜欢动物又喜欢杀动物的西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Roosevelt)兼作动物饲养员，负责照顾豚鼠“杜威上将”(Admiral Dewey)和小熊“乔纳森·爱德华兹”(Jonathan Edwards)等外来动物。
More mundane pets such as Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Scottish terrier, Fala, and Senator Richard M. Nixon’s cocker spaniel, Checkers, have clawed their way into American history. It is said that Lyndon B. Johnson received more negative mail when he hoisted his beagle, Him, by the ears in 1964 than he did waging the Vietnam War. Many animal lovers never forgave Johnson, who received some tepid support from hunters, who sometimes pulled their dogs’ ears to make sure they were in full throat for the chase.
更普通的宠物，比如富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D.Roosevelt)的苏格兰梗犬法拉(Fala)和参议员理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)的可卡犬切克尔斯(Checkers)，已经进入了美国的历史。据说林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)因为1964年揪着他的比格犬希姆(Him)的耳朵把它拎起来而收到的批评信件，比他因为发动越战收到的还多。很多喜欢动物的人始终没有原谅他，但他从猎人那里得到了些许支持。猎人有时候会拉扯狗耳朵，以确保它们全力狩猎。
As a bona fides of his canine affection, the retired Johnson recorded a vinyl record, “Dogs Have Always Been My Friends: Lyndon Johnson Reminisces Tales From The Texas Hills, Vol. 1” — still available on Amazon.
约翰逊退休后录制了一张黑胶唱片，表明自己真的喜欢狗。这张唱片名叫《狗一直是我的朋友：林登·约翰逊回忆德克萨斯山城故事，第一集》(Dogs Have Always Been My Friends: Lyndon Johnson Reminisces Tales From The Texas Hills, Vol. 1)，亚马逊(Amazon)上现在还有售。
Mr. Trump’s reluctance to take a pet under his wing seems silly when you consider how little work it must involve. Let’s get real; it’s not as if he would have to follow them around with a pooper scooper, or empty that foul-smelling litter box. That is why God invented White House ushers, and there are plenty of them.
考虑到养宠物对特朗普来说并不会增加多少负担，他不愿养这一点似乎很蠢。咱们实话实说：他不用拿着狗粪铲跟在它们身后，也不用倒气味难闻的猫砂盆。这都是上帝创造白宫勤务员的原因，那里有很多勤务员。
By all appearances, Mr. Trump doesn’t like animals. “It’s hard not to notice his lack of commitment to companion animals and nature in general,” comments Alan M. Beck, a professor of animal ecology at Purdue University and director of the Center for the Human-Animal Bond. “His sons are trophy hunters.”
所有迹象都表明特朗普并不喜欢动物。“人们很难不注意到，总体而言，他对伴侣动物和大自然缺乏责任感，”普渡大学动物生态学教授、人类与动物关系中心(Center for the Human-Animal Bond)主任艾伦·M·贝克(Alan M.Beck)说。“他的儿子们都是战利品狩猎者。”
Professor Beck says that politicians often adopt animals “because people with animals are given more positive attribution. If you have an animal, you are somehow a better person. There are lots of studies on this. But I don’t think the president even seems to care about that.”
贝克表示，政客经常收养动物，“因为拥有动物的人会被给予更积极的评价。如果你有动物，你就多多少少会是个更好的人。对此有很多研究。但我认为总统似乎根本就不在乎。”
Professor Beck supported Hillary Clinton in the last election and isn’t sheepish about baring his fangs. “His not liking dogs doesn’t surprise me, but it’s the least of my concerns. Frankly it doesn’t tell us anything that we didn’t already know.”
贝克在上届竞选中支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，因此毫不吝于对特朗普的抨击。“他不喜欢狗，这不会让我感到意外，但我也根本不关心。坦白讲，这没有说明任何我们所不知道的事情。”
A White House pet might be good for Mr. Trump, and good for the country as well. A much-cited 1992 study published in the Medical Journal of Australia reported that pet owners had lower blood pressure levels than non-owners.
在白宫养宠物可能对特朗普有好处，对这个国家也有好处。澳大利亚《医学期刊》于1992年发表的一项研究曾被广泛引用，称宠物饲养者的血压水平低于不饲养宠物的人。
One can’t help thinking — reports of his “astonishingly excellent” health notwithstanding — that Mr. Trump might do well to unwind a little. Golf can’t cure everything.
人们不禁会想，尽管医疗报告声称特朗普的健康状况“好得惊人”，但他或许可以更好地放松一下。高尔夫不能包治百病。
In therapeutic literature, animals are often called “social lubricants” because their presence eases potentially awkward interactions. According to the psychiatrist Roy Grinker, Sigmund Freud often had his Chinese chow, Jofi, attend analyses. Sometimes Freud would speak to a patient through her, e.g., “Jofi has decided to give you another chance.”
在治疗文献中，动物通常被称为“社交润滑剂”，因为它们的存在可以缓解可能尴尬的互动。据精神病学家罗伊·格林克(Roy Grinker)说，西格蒙德·弗洛伊德(Sigmund Freud)经常让他的松狮犬乔菲(Jofi)参加分析过程。有时，弗洛伊德会借她向病人说话，比如说，“乔菲决定再给你一个机会。”
It’s easy to see how a pet could serve as a badly needed emollient for the notoriously blunt President Trump. In a hypothetical meeting with the North Korean strongman Kim Jong-un, Mr. Trump could let his hypothetical dog Fido — the same name as Abraham Lincoln’s mixed-breed pet — do the talking. “Fido has some serious concerns about your medium-range weaponry,” I hear Mr. Trump saying.
不难看出，对于以口无遮拦著称的特朗普，宠物很可以成为一种急需的软化剂。在假象的与朝鲜强人领袖金正恩的会晤中，特朗普可以让他假想的宠物狗费多(Fido)说话——亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)的混种犬名叫费多。“费多对你的中程武器非常担忧，”我想象特朗普说。
Hope springs eternal. If Mr. Trump’s youngest son, Barron, moves to the White House with his mother, a presidential pet may be in the offing. A Trump fan reportedly offered Barron a mediagenic golden doodle a few months ago, but Mr. Trump begged off, according to the New York Post, citing his peripatetic schedule.
希望永无止息。如果特朗普的幼子巴伦(Barron)与他母亲一起搬到白宫，就可能会出现一只“第一宠物”。据《纽约邮报》(New York Post)报道，几个月前，特朗普的一位粉丝要送给巴伦一只招人喜欢的黄金贵宾犬(golden doodle)，遭特朗普婉拒，称自己四处奔跑没有时间。
The question arises: What pet suits a Trump most? Some research from a psychologist at the University of Texas at Austin suggests that Mr. Trump might be more of a “cat person” (more neurotic) than a dog lover (more extroverted, agreeable). What about ferrets? Weren’t ferrets big in the 1980s, the era now known as Peak Trump I?
问题在于：什么样的宠物最适合特朗普？得克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校的心理学家进行的研究表明，特朗普可能更爱猫（更神经质），而不是爱狗（更外向、更讨人喜欢）。那么雪貂呢？1980年代雪貂曾风靡一时，那个时期现在被称为“特朗普第一巅峰期”(Peak Trump I)。
Sooner or later, I suspect a pet will take up residence in the Donald Trump White House. If nothing else, he might feel competitive with Russia’s pet-ophilic president, Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Putin is often photographed hugging dogs and even briefly nurtured a Siberian tiger cub, winning plaudits from the World Wildlife Fund.
我怀疑，唐纳德·特朗普住在白宫期间，迟早那里会有一只宠物。就算不为别的原因，他可能会和俄罗斯总统普京一争高下。普京很喜欢宠物，经常被拍下他拥抱狗的照片，甚至还短暂养过一只西伯利亚虎崽，并赢得世界野生动物基金会的褒奖。
What is that great line? Once you’ve learned to fake sincerity, the rest is easy. Once Donald Trump learns to pretend to love animals, he can move on to pretending to love the human race.
有句俗话是怎么说的？一旦你学会假装真诚，其余的就很容易了。一旦唐纳德·特朗普学会假装爱动物，他就可以去假装爱人类了。