PALM BEACH, Fla. — After testing the bounds of vulgarity, factuality and decency, the most surreal presidential campaign in modern times now arrives in the state where hanging chads, romantic dalliances and a mishmash of voting allegiances have made and unmade political careers.
佛罗里达州棕榈滩——在接连挑战粗俗、真实和正派的底线之后，现代史上最离奇的一届总统竞选来到了这样一个州：在这里，连孔票（打孔机没打干净的选票，有可能作废——译注）、调情和各式各样的投票联盟，曾成就和毁灭诸多人的政治生涯。
This is Florida, where campaign money flows like sugar cane runoff and the Republican Party is planning to make what could be its last stand against a man, Donald Trump, who embodies many of the state's stereotypes — the love of a year-round suntan, an obsession with golf, a preening ostentation.
它就是佛罗里达，一个竞选资金如同此地盛产的甘蔗一样泛滥的地方。共和党计划在这里对一个人进行有可能是最后一次的抵抗，也就是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。从很多方面讲，他正好代表了外界对佛罗里达人的不少刻板印象——喜欢一年到头晒得黝黑，极爱打高尔夫，热衷卖弄夸耀。
The state's winner-take-all primary on Tuesday is shaping to be a climactic moment. Trump's insurgent candidacy faces the biggest test yet of whether it is built to endure. Marco Rubio, Florida's junior senator, will have to decide whether he should stay in the race if he loses. And Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas will see how far his efforts to chip away at the support of both rivals can go.
该州将于下周二举行的赢者通吃的初选，有望成为本次总统竞选的一个高潮。特朗普一反常规的候选人身份能否延续下去，届时将面临迄今为止最大的考验。佛罗里达州资历较浅的参议员马可·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)则必须决定，如果丢了这个州，他是否还要继续参选。而德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)将看到自己蚕食这两位竞争对手选票的努力可以进行到哪一步。
A glimpse of the antics that lie ahead came Tuesday night when Trump won Hawaii, Michigan and Mississippi. He celebrated at his golf club in Jupiter, Florida, where he set out on display an array of Trump-branded products like steaks, wine and water and while he talked up the Jack Nicklaus-designed course. “I love Florida. Special place,” he said.
本周二晚上出现了可以让我们一窥前方好戏的机会。当时特朗普刚刚拿下夏威夷、密歇根和密西西比州，正在自己位于佛罗里达州朱庇特的高尔夫俱乐部举行庆祝活动。他一边摆出打着特朗普名号的牛排、红酒和饮用水等产品，一边在杰克·尼克劳斯(Jack Nicklaus)设计的球场上夸夸其谈。“我爱佛罗里达。很特别的地方，”他说。
This special place will have its fill of politicians over the next week. Univision was to host a Democratic debate on Wednesday night, and CNN a Republican debate on Thursday night, both in Miami.
在接下来的一周，这个特别的地方将挤满各色政客。Univision将在周三晚上举行一场民主党辩论，CNN将在周四晚上进行一场共和党辩论，地点都是在迈阿密。
But with little drama expected in the Democratic race — Hillary Clinton is comfortably ahead of Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont here in polls — most of the attention is on the Republican contest.
不过，既然民主党的角逐预计不会有太多戏剧性——在这里的民意调查中，希拉里·克林顿遥遥领先于佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯——大多数注意力都集中到了共和党的争夺战上。
It will be an expensive race, with Florida's 10 media markets and $12 million in ads swamping televisions in the final two weeks before voting.
它将是一场花销不菲的比赛。在投票之前的最后两周内，各位候选人耗资1200万美元在佛罗里达州的10个媒体市场投放广告，席卷了千家万户的电视屏幕。
It will be bitter, too, with many supporters of the former governor, Jeb Bush, refusing to back Rubio. Some are threatening to vote for Bush, who dropped out of the race last month, because his name remains on the ballot.
它也会是一场苦涩的比赛。该州前州长杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)的不少支持者拒绝支持卢比奥，有些还威胁要将票投给已于上月退出竞选的布什，因为他的名字还印在选单上。