JERUSALEM — At an Israeli children’s hospital, Melania Trump handed out blue canvas backpacks filled with Dr. Seuss books and emblazoned with a picture of the White House. At a forum in Saudi Arabia on combating extremism, Ivanka Trump stood in for her father when he got tired. And in Israel, Jared Kushner stuck by his father-in-law’s side as President Donald Trump pushed for peace in the Middle East.
耶路撒冷——在以色列的一家儿童医院里，梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)赠送了一些蓝色帆布背包，包上印着一张白宫的照片，里面装着苏斯博士(Dr. Seuss)的书。在沙特阿拉伯举行的一个有关抗击极端主义的论坛上，伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)在父亲感觉疲累的时候代替他出场。在以色列，贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)在岳父唐纳德·特朗普总统推动中东和平进程时陪伴在他左右。
The president’s first foray overseas is giving the rest of the world its first real glimpse of America’s new governing structure — a White House that has quickly become an all-in-the-family business, standard practice in Saudi Arabia, but rare in the United States.
这位总统的首次海外访问让世界其他地方第一次对美国的新政府结构有了真实的了解——一个很快沦为家族企业的白宫，这在沙特阿拉伯是常规，但在美国十分罕见。
During the president’s nine-day, multicountry trip that began Friday, the world is learning — and Americans are being reminded of — the significant overlap between blood relations and policy advisers in the current White House. For Trump, they are almost interchangeable.
在美国总统周五开启的、为期九天的多国访问期间，外界看到——美国人则得到提醒——在目前的白宫内，血缘关系与政策顾问出现不容忽视的重叠。对特朗普而言，二者几乎没有区别。
“It is extremely rare that a president would bring family members, other than a spouse, and ask them to assume a public role on a foreign trip,” said Carl Sferrazza Anthony, the historian at the National First Ladies’ Library.
“一位总统会带配偶之外的家庭成员出访，且让他们在外交旅途中承担公共角色，这是极为罕见的，”国立第一夫人图书馆(National First Ladies)的历史学家卡尔·斯费拉扎·安东尼(Carl Sferrazza Anthony)说。
Anthony said presidents often brought their children or other relatives on foreign excursions. But he added, “In terms of the Trumps assuming public roles, this is unprecedented.”
安东尼表示，美国总统出访通常会带上孩子或其他亲属。但他接着讲道，“特朗普一家承担各种公共角色的情况却是前所未有的。”
The president’s daughter Ivanka and her husband, Kushner, have offices in the West Wing and are top White House advisers. The couple reportedly received a rabbinical pass to travel with the president on Air Force One on Friday, so they could be by his side. (As Orthodox Jews, they are not supposed to travel in a vehicle on the Sabbath, which begins Friday at sundown and continues until sundown Saturday.)
总统女儿伊万卡和她丈夫库什纳是白宫的高级顾问，在白宫西翼有自己的办公室。据称这对夫妇是获得了犹太教教士的豁免，才得以在周五登上空军一号与总统一起出行，好陪伴他左右。（作为正统派犹太人，他们原本不该在安息日乘交通工具出行，这个时间始于周五日落时分，持续到周六太阳下山。）
Melania Trump, America’s reticent and reserved first lady, has all but shunned the spotlight since her husband was elected. Overseas, though, she has been willing to play the role of global ambassador, stepping out a bit as she accompanies her husband. Wherever she goes, she draws attention.
自丈夫当选以来，沉默内向的美国第一夫人梅拉尼娅·特朗普一直在躲避聚光灯。不过在海外，她倒是愿意扮演全球大使的角色，在陪着丈夫时相对多地去抛头露面。不管出现在哪里，她都会引起注意。
When she arrived in Israel on Monday, a microphone caught a bit of private flattery from the prime minister’s wife. “I talk every place about her," Sara Netanyahu told Donald Trump after Air Force One landed.
周一抵达以色列时，一个麦克风捕捉到了以色列总理的夫人私下里的一点恭维。“我走到哪儿都会说起她，”莎拉·内塔尼亚胡(Sara Netanyahu)在空军一号落地后对唐纳德·特朗普说道。
The family-first approach has drawn mostly positive coverage overseas since the Trumps left Washington, especially in Saudi Arabia, where the country’s sprawling royal family is synonymous with its governing elite.
离开华盛顿之后，特朗普一家采取的家庭第一的做法在海外大体获得了正面报道，在沙特阿拉伯尤其如此，这里成员众多的王室就相当于该国的统治精英。
But not all the attention has been kind. On Monday, television cameras at the airport arrival ceremony in Tel Aviv captured what appeared to be an annoyed Melania Trump slapping away her husband’s hand when he tried to hold hers.
但不是所有的关注都是善意的。在周一于特拉维夫机场举行的欢迎仪式上，电视台拍到的一段镜头似乎显示梅拉尼娅有些恼怒，在丈夫试图拉她时弹开了他的手。
The video clip of Melania Trump flicking away the president’s hand quickly went viral on Twitter and was posted on the website for Haaretz, an Israeli newspaper, under the headline: “Well this is embarrassing.”
梅拉尼娅弹开总统的手的视频片段迅速在Twitter上传播开来，并被发布到以色列报纸《国土报》(Haaretz)的网站上，标题是《呃，这下尴尬了》(Well this is embarrassing)。
A spokeswoman for Melania Trump did not respond to an email seeking comment on the video.
梅拉尼娅·特朗普的发言人没有回应时报通过邮件就这段视频发出的置评请求。
In Saudi Arabia, Ivanka Trump represented her father at a round-table discussion with female entrepreneurs and Princess Reema bint Bandar, the daughter of Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the long-serving Saudi ambassador to the United States.
在沙特阿拉伯，伊万卡·特朗普代表父亲与几名女企业家和沙特公主丽玛·宾特·班达尔(Reema bint Bandar)进行了一场圆桌讨论，这位公主是班达尔·本·苏丹(Bandar bin Sultan)亲王的女儿，后者曾长期担任沙特驻美国大使。
After the session, the princess told a reporter that Ivanka Trump is broadly seen in the country as a symbol of empowerment, in part because many people can easily relate to the fact that she is part of a powerful family enterprise.
会议结束后，公主告诉记者，伊万卡·特朗普在沙特被普遍视作赋权的象征，部分原因在于许多人可以很容易地联系到这样一个事实，即她属于一个有权势的家族。
On Sunday night, when the president skipped a Twitter forum on combating extremism, Ivanka Trump filled in, taking to the stage to greet hundreds of young audience members and to explain the policy purposes of the event.
周日晚，总统缺席了一场有关抗击极端主义的Twitter专题讨论会，伊万卡·特朗普代替他走上舞台，向在场的数百名年轻听众打招呼，并解释了这场活动的政策目标。
“Ultimately this young generation across the Arab world is a generation that can build tolerance, hope and peace,” she said. “That’s what today has been focused on.”
“最终，阿拉伯世界年轻的一代将是构建起宽容、希望与和平的一代，”她说。“这是我们今天关注的重点。”
A White House aide later said that Donald Trump’s schedule had run very late that day and that he was exhausted. The comment was mocked on Twitter by the president’s critics, who noted the nine-day trip had just begun two days earlier.
一位白宫助手后来表示，唐纳德·特朗普当天的日程进行到很晚，他已经精疲力竭。这种说法在Twitter上遭到总统批评者的嘲笑，他们指出九天的旅程才不过进行两天。
In Saudi Arabia, it was impossible to ignore the comparisons between Kushner, 36, and Mohammed bin Salman, deputy crown prince of Saudi Arabia, 31. Both represent a younger generation, in power in their countries largely because of their family ties, yet with vast portfolios.
在沙特阿拉伯，你无法忽视36岁的库什纳与沙特31岁的副王储穆罕默德·本·萨勒曼(Mohammed bin Salman)的相似性。两人都代表着更年轻的一代，主要因自身的家族关系在各自国家手握大权，同时掌控着规模巨大的投资组合。
Kushner has briefed reporters, helped negotiate Saudi deals for weapons and business that totaled almost $400 billion, and is one of the president’s closest advisers on foreign policy and diplomacy. Over the weekend, Kushner attended almost all of the president’s meetings with the Saudi royal family.
库什纳给记者开发布会，协助谈判总额近4000亿美元的沙特武器与商业协议，同时还是总统在对外政策与外交事务上关系最密切的顾问之一。上周末，他出席了总统与沙特王室进行的几乎所有会面活动。
“The president asked us to plan a trip that would help unite the world against intolerance and terrorism and we have made great progress towards that goal in Saudi Arabia,” Kushner said in a rare, on-the-record statement just before the president departed from Riaydh for his stop in Jerusalem.
“之前总统让我们制定一趟出访活动，要有助于让世界联合起来应对不宽容和恐怖主义，在沙特阿拉伯，我们朝那个目标迈进了一大步，”在总统就要离开利雅得前往耶路撒冷时，库什纳在一项罕见的公开声明中这样讲道。
On Monday, Kushner accompanied Trump as he spent hours with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israel’s president, Reuven Rivlin, discussing how to accelerate efforts to achieve peace. On Tuesday, Kushner will be with his father-in-law when he meets with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.
周一，当特朗普与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)和总统鲁文·里夫林(Reuven Rivlin)花数小时谈论如何加快实现和平的努力时，库什纳就陪在特朗普身旁。周二，当特朗普与巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)会面时，他也会在场。
All three members of the Trump family joined Donald Trump on Monday as he became the first sitting president to make a pilgrimage to the Western Wall, Judaism’s most holy place for prayer. Even as many cameras clicked to capture Trump’s moment of reflection, others were pointed at his wife and daughter, who were doing the same in a section reserved only for women to pray.
当唐纳德·特朗普在周一成为首位朝拜耶路撒冷最神圣的祈祷之地哭墙的现任美国总统时，三位家庭成员都加入了他的行列。即便在许多镜头闪烁着捕捉特朗普沉思的瞬间时，也一些指向了他的妻子和女儿，她们在专供女性使用的地方祈祷。