Donald Trump had barely met Rowanne Brewer Lane when he asked her to change out of her clothes. 
初次见到罗万妮·布鲁尔·莱恩(Rowanne Brewer Lane)，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)就让她换掉身上的衣服。
“Donald was having a pool party at Mar-a-Lago. There were about 50 models and 30 men. There were girls in the pools, splashing around. For some reason Donald seemed a little smitten with me. He just started talking to me and nobody else,” Brewer Lane said. 
“唐纳德在马阿拉歌庄园办了一个泳池派对，大约有50个模特和30名男子到场。一些女孩在水池里戏水。不知怎么的，唐纳德似乎有点儿迷上我了。他开始只跟我一个人讲话，”布鲁尔·莱恩说。
She continued: “He suddenly took me by the hand, and he started to show me around the mansion. He asked me if I had a swimsuit with me. I said no. I hadn’t intended to swim. He took me into a room and opened drawers and asked me to put on a swimsuit.” 
她接着说：“他突然牵住我的手，领我参观庄园各处。他问我是否随身带着泳装。我说没有。我没打算游泳。他把我带进一个房间，打开抽屉，然后让我换上泳装。
Brewer Lane, at the time a 26-year-old model, did as Trump asked. “I went into the bathroom and tried one on,” she recalled. It was a bikini. “I came out, and he said, ‘Wow.'” 
莱恩当时26岁，是一名模特，她照着特朗普的话做了。“我走进浴室，穿上了泳装，”她回忆。那是一套比基尼。“我走出去时他‘哇’了一声。”
Trump, then 44 and in the midst of his first divorce, decided to show her off to the crowd at Mar-a-Lago, his estate in Palm Beach, Florida. “He brought me out to the pool and said, ‘That is a stunning Trump girl, isn’t it?'” Brewer Lane said. 
时年44岁、正和第一任妻子闹离婚的特朗普，决定带着她到马阿拉歌庄园的人群中炫耀一番。该庄园位于佛罗里达州的棕榈滩。“他把我带到池边，对人们说，‘这是一个令人惊艳的特朗普女郎，不是吗？’”莱恩说。
Donald Trump and women: The words evoke a familiar cascade of casual insults by the presumptive Republican nominee for president, hurled from the safe distance of a Twitter account, a radio show or a campaign podium. 
唐纳德·特朗普和女人：这个词组让人不由得联想起稳获共和党总统候选人提名资格的特朗普在安全距离之外——譬如在Twitter账号上，在广播节目里，或者在竞选活动的讲台上——随意抛出的种种广为人知的轻薄之辞。
But the 1990 episode at Mar-a-Lago that Brewer Lane described was different: a debasing face-to-face encounter between Trump and a young woman he hardly knew. This is the private treatment of some women by Trump, the up-close and more intimate encounters. 
但莱恩所描述的、于1990年发生在马阿拉歌庄园的这个插曲有所不同：特朗普在和自己几乎不认识的一个年轻女性相遇时，竟当面贬损其人格。这就是他私下里与一些女性进行更为亲密的近距离接触时对待她们的方式。
The New York Times interviewed dozens of women who had worked with or for Trump over the past four decades and women who had dated him or interacted with him socially. In all, more than 50 interviews were conducted. 
《纽约时报》采访了数十名曾在过去40年里与他合作过或为他做过事的女性，以及和他约会过或进行过社交性互动的女性。总共有超过50次采访。
Their accounts reveal unwelcome romantic advances, unending commentary on the female form, a shrewd reliance on ambitious women, and unsettling workplace conduct, according to the interviews, as well as court records and written recollections. 
采访、法庭记录以及书面回忆材料显示，她们眼中的特朗普是这样的：曾做出过令人讨厌的挑逗之举，曾无休止地评论女性的外表，曾精明地放权给有抱负的女性，曾有过令人不安的职场行为。
What emerges from the interviews is a complex, at times contradictory portrait of a provocative man and the women around him, one that defies simple categorization. 
从采访中浮现出的这个颇具争议的男人和他身边诸多女人的形象十分复杂，有时又充满矛盾，无法被简单地归类。
Pressed on the women’s claims, Trump disputed many of the details, such as asking Brewer Lane to put on a swimsuit. “A lot of things get made up over the years,” he said. “I have always treated women with great respect. And women will tell you that.” 
当被追问对那些女性的说辞有何看法时，特朗普驳斥了其中的许多细节，比如让布鲁尔·莱恩换上泳装。“这么多年来，很多事情都是别人捏造的，”他说。“我总是以极大的尊重对待女性。而女性会告诉你这一点。”
But in many cases there was an unmistakable dynamic at play: Trump had the power, and the women did not. 
但前述指控通常都牵涉到一种不会被弄错的力量对比：特朗普有权有势，那些女人则不然。
For Brewer Lane, her introduction to Trump at Mar-a-Lago was the start of a whirlwind romance — a heady blur of helicopter rides and high-end hotel rooms and flashing cameras. 
对布鲁尔·莱恩而言，在马阿拉歌庄园结识特朗普，是一场闪电式恋爱的开始——乘坐直升飞机，光顾高端酒店，被聚光灯包围，一切都令人目眩神迷。
“It was intimidating,” she said. “He was Donald Trump, obviously.” 
“挺让人发怵的，”她说。“要知道，他可是唐纳德·特朗普。”
The Company of Women 
选美生意，女人相伴
With his purchase of the Miss Universe Organization, Trump was in the business of young, beautiful women. 
特朗普买下环球小姐组织(Miss Universe Organization)之后，就进入了一个充斥着年轻美女的行业。
Temple Taggart, the 21-year-old Miss Utah, was startled by how forward he was with young contestants like her in 1997, his first year as the owner of Miss USA, a branch of the beauty pageant organization. As she recalls it, he introduced himself in an unusually intimate manner. 
在1997年，也就是特朗普刚刚把该选美组织的分支比赛——“美国小姐”(Miss USA)——纳入麾下那一年，时年21岁的犹他州小姐坦普尔·塔格特(Temple Taggart)相当震惊地发现，此人在她这样的年轻参赛者面前是何等的放肆。据她回忆，特朗普以一种不同寻常的亲密方式打了招呼。
“He kissed me directly on the lips. I thought, ‘Oh my God, gross,'” Taggart said. “He was married to Marla Maples at the time. I think there were a few other girls that he kissed on the mouth. I was like ‘Wow, that’s inappropriate.'” 
“他直接亲吻了我的嘴唇。我心想，‘老天，真恶心，’”塔格特说。“他当时已经和玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)结婚了。我记得他还吻了其他几个女孩的嘴唇。我当时的感觉是，‘哇，这么做真是不得体。’”
Trump disputes this, saying he is reluctant to kiss strangers on the lips. 
特朗普驳斥了这一说法，他说自己不喜欢亲吻陌生人的嘴唇。
His level of involvement in the pageants was unexpected, and his judgments, the contestants said, could be harsh. Carrie Prejean, who was 21 when she participated in the Miss USA contest in 2009 as Miss California, was surprised to find Trump personally evaluating the women at rehearsal. 
他对选美赛事的参与程度之高出人意料，据参赛者说，他的评语有时十分刺耳。2009年，时年21岁的加州小姐嘉莉·普雷让(Carrie Prejean)参加美国小姐大赛时惊讶地发现，彩排时，特朗普会亲自对参赛女性进行评估。
“We were told to put on our opening number outfits — they were nearly as revealing as our swimsuits — and line up for him onstage,” she wrote in her memoir, “Still Standing.”
“我们奉命穿上开幕表演的服装——其暴露程度几乎与泳装无异——为他在舞台上排成排，”她在自传《依然站立》(Still Standing)中写道。”
“Donald Trump walked out with his entourage and inspected us closer than any general ever inspected a platoon. He would stop in front of a girl, look her up and down, and say, ‘Hmmm.’ Then he would go on and do the same thing to the next girl. He took notes on a little pad as he went along,” Prejean wrote. 
“唐纳德·特朗普带着随从走了出来，细细地审视我们，比任何检阅士兵的将军都要仔细。他会在一个女孩面前停下脚步，上下打量她，‘嗯嗯’几声。然后往前走，对下一个女孩做同样的事。他一边走一边在小本子上做笔记，”普雷让写道。
She continued: “It became clear that the point of the whole exercise was for him to divide the room between girls he personally found attractive and those he did not. Many of the girls found the exercise humiliating. Some of the girls were sobbing backstage after he left, devastated to have failed even before the competition really began to impress ‘The Donald.'” 
她接着写道：“大家逐渐明白，整场排练的意义所在，就是便于他把这里的女孩区分成他本人感兴趣的和不感兴趣的。许多女孩都觉得这样的排练是一种侮辱。他离开后，一些女孩在后台抽泣了起来，让她们难过的是，自己甚至在比赛真正开始前就无法引起‘那位唐纳德先生’的注意。”
Trump, in an interview, said he would “never do that.” Such behavior, he said, would bruise egos and hurt feelings. “I wouldn’t hurt people,” he said. “That’s hurtful to people.” 
唐纳德接受采访时表示，他“永远也不会如此行事”。他说，这种行为会伤害别人的自尊和感情。“我不会伤害别人，”他说。“而这样做会让人受伤。”
A Preoccupation With Bodies 
满脑子都是肉体
Inside the Trump Organization, the company that manages his various businesses, Trump occasionally interrupted routine discussions of business to opine on women’s figures. Barbara A. Res, Trump’s former head of construction, remembered a meeting in which she and Trump interviewed an architect for a project in the Los Angeles area. Out of the blue, she said, Trump evaluated the fitness of women in Marina del Rey, California. “They take care of their asses,” he said. 
在负责管理其旗下多个企业的特朗普集团(Trump Organization)内部，特朗普有时会打断日常业务讨论，转而评论女人的身材。曾在特朗普手下担任工程负责人的芭芭拉·A·雷斯(Barbara A. Res)记得，有一次为了洛杉矶地区的一个项目，她和特朗普一起面试了一位建筑师。出人意料的是，她说，特朗普居然评价起了加州玛丽安德尔湾的女性的身材。“她们很在意自己的臀部。”
“The architect and I didn’t know where he was coming from,” Res said. Years later, after she had gained a significant amount of weight, Res endured a stinging workplace observation about her own body from Trump. “'You like your candy,'” she recalled him telling her. “It was him reminding me that I was overweight.” 
“我和那位建筑师都不明白他怎么冒出了这么一句，”雷斯说。几年后，当雷斯的体重明显增加时，特朗普在工作场合对其身体的审视令她相当难受。“你真爱吃糖，”她记得特朗普这样说道。“他是在提醒我，我太胖了。”
Her colleague Louise Sunshine experienced similar observations from Trump when she gained weight. But she saw it as friendly encouragement, not a cruel insult. “He thought I looked much better thin,” she said. “He would remind me of how beautiful I was.” 
雷斯的同事路易丝·森夏恩(Louise Sunshine)发胖后，同样受到了来自特朗普的审视。但她将其视为一种友好的鼓励，而非令人难堪的侮辱。“他认为我瘦的时候要好看得多，”她说。“他会提醒我，我以前有多美。”
Trump frequently sought assurances — at times from strangers — that the women in his life were beautiful. During the 1997 Miss Teen USA pageant, he sat in the audience as his teenage daughter, Ivanka, helped to host the event from onstage. He turned to Brook Antoinette Mahealani Lee, Miss Universe at the time, and asked for her opinion of his daughter’s body. 
特朗普常常想让别人——有时是陌生人——承认，他生活中的女人都很美。1997年美国妙龄小姐选美大赛(Miss Teen USA)期间，特朗普的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)在台上帮忙主持赛事，他本人则坐在观众席上观看。他把头转向当时的环球小姐布鲁克·安托蕾·玛希拉妮·李(Brook Antoinette Mahealani Lee)，就女儿的身材询问对方的看法。
“'Don’t you think my daughter’s hot? She’s hot, right?'” Lee recalled him saying. ‘I was like, ‘Really?’ That’s just weird. She was 16. That’s creepy.” 
“‘你不觉得我女儿很火辣吗？她很火辣，对吧？’”李记得他这样说道。“我当时心想，‘不是吧？’这么说也太怪了。她当时只有16岁。感觉真够让人起鸡皮疙瘩的。”