Thank God for the resignation in shame by Mike Flynn, President Trump’s national security adviser. And not just because he misled the vice president and engaged in deeply malignant behavior with Russia, but, more important, because maybe it will finally get the United States government, Congress and the news media to demand a proper answer to what is still the biggest national security question staring us in the face today: What is going on between Donald Trump and the Russians?
感谢上帝，特朗普总统的国家安全顾问迈克·弗林(Mike Flynn)难堪地辞了职。这不仅仅是因为他误导了副总统，并有牵涉俄罗斯的恶劣行径，更重要的是，唐纳德·特朗普和俄罗斯人之间究竟发生了什么？这仍是如今摆在我们面前最大的国家安全问题，弗林的事也许最终会导致美国政府、国会与新闻媒体要求得到一个像样的答案。
Sorry, Kellyanne Conway, I am not ready to just “move on.”
对不起，凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)，我还没准备好“继续前进”。
Every action, tweet and declaration by Trump throughout this campaign, his transition and his early presidency screams that he is compromised when it comes to the Russians.
在竞选、过渡期以及总统任期最初阶段当中，特朗普的每一个行动、推文和宣言都在醒目地显示出，在俄罗斯的事情上，他已经成了一个软肋。
I don’t know whether Russian oligarchs own him financially or whether Russian spies own him personally because of alleged indiscreet behavior during his trips to Moscow. But Trump’s willingness to attack allies like Australia, threaten enemies like Iran and North Korea and bully neighbors like Mexico — while consistently blowing kisses to Russian President Vladimir Putin — cannot be explained away by his mere desire to improve relations with Moscow to defeat the Islamic State. And the Flynn ouster gives our government another, desperately needed opportunity to demand the answers to these questions, starting with seeing the president’s tax returns.
我不知道究竟是俄罗斯寡头统治者在财务上控制了他，还是因为他在莫斯科旅行期间有过所谓不检点的行为，导致俄罗斯间谍在个人上控制了他。但特朗普乐于攻击澳大利亚这样的盟友、威胁伊朗和朝鲜这样的敌人、欺负墨西哥这样的邻居——同时却向俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)频频送出飞吻。这不能用他只想同莫斯科改善关系，从而打败伊斯兰国(Islamic State)来解释。弗林的下台再次给了政府一个它迫切需要的机会，来寻求这些问题的答案，就从看到总统的纳税申报表开始。
We need to know whom Trump owes and who might own him, and we need to know it now. Save for a few patriotic Republican senators like John McCain and Lindsey Graham, the entire Republican Party is complicit in a shameful act of looking away at Trump’s inexplicable behavior toward Russia.
我们需要知道特朗普能控制谁，谁又可能控制他，我们现在就需要知道。除了约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)等少数几个爱国的共和党参议员，整个共和党都在一桩可耻的行为当中串通一气，远远看着特朗普对俄罗斯采取无法解释的行为。
If Republicans want to know how they should be behaving on this issue, they should ask themselves what they would be saying and doing right now if a President Hillary Clinton had behaved toward Russia the way Trump has, and had her national security adviser been found hinting to the Russian ambassador to hold tight because a softer United States policy toward Russia was on its way.
如果共和党人想知道他们在这个问题上应该如何行动，他们应该扪心自问：如果换了希拉里·克林顿总统在对待俄罗斯时有特朗普这样的表现，并且她的国家安全顾问被发现曾暗示俄罗斯大使不要轻举妄动，因为美国即将出台软化的对俄政策——假如这种事发生，他们将会怎么做。
House Speaker Paul Ryan and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, what are you thinking by looking away from this travesty? You both know that if the C.I.A., N.S.A. and F.B.I. had concluded that the Russians had intervened to help Hillary Clinton get elected you would have closed the government and demanded a new election. Now it’s all O.K.? So you can get some tax cuts? Gens. Jim Mattis and John Kelly, our new secretaries of defense and homeland security, you are great patriots who both put your lives on the line in uniform to defend American values from precisely the kind of attack Putin perpetrated. Are you O.K. with what’s going on?
众议院院长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)和多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)，当你们远远旁观这场闹剧的时候，你们在想什么？你们都知道，如果中央情报局、国家安全局和联邦调查局得出结论，声称俄罗斯人介入选举，帮助希拉里·克林顿当选的话，你们会关闭政府，要求举行新的选举。现在这一切就这么算了？这样你们就可以得到一点减税？吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)将军和约翰·凯利(John Kelly)将军，我们的新的国防部长和国土安全部部长，你们是伟大的爱国者，你们都曾身穿军装，冒着生命危险保卫美国价值观不被普京的种种攻击所侵犯。你们觉得发生的这一切可以就这么算了吗？
We need to rerun the tape. Ladies and gentlemen, we were attacked on Dec. 7, 1941, we were attacked on Sept. 11, 2001, and we were attacked on Nov. 8, 2016. That most recent attack didn’t involve a horrible loss of lives, but it was devastating in its own way. Our entire intelligence community concluded that Russia hacked our election by deliberately breaking into Democratic National Committee computers and then drip-by-drip funneling embarrassing emails through WikiLeaks to undermine Clinton’s campaign. And what have we done about it? Other than a wrist slap against Moscow, we’ve moved on.
我们需要重放磁带。女士们，先生们，我们曾在1941年12月7日遭到攻击，我们曾在2001年9月11日遭到攻击，我们也在2016年11月8日遭到了攻击。最近的这一次攻击没有涉及可怕的生命损失，它以自己的方式造成了毁灭性的后果。我们整个情报界的结论是：俄罗斯人通过故意入侵民主党国家委员会的电脑，然后一点一滴地通过维基解密(WikiLeaks)泄露尴尬的电子邮件，破坏了克林顿的竞选，用黑客手段影响了我们的选举。我们对此做了什么？除了在莫斯科的手腕上轻轻拍了一下之外，我们就这么继续前进了。
That is not O.K.
这是不对的。
I am not arguing that Trump is not the legitimate president; he won for many reasons. But I am arguing that he is not behaving like one. Trump presents himself as “Mr. Patriotism,” wrapped in the American flag. And yet he has used his Twitter account to attack BMW for building an auto plant in Mexico, Boeing for over charging for a government airplane, the cast of “Hamilton” for appealing to the vice president to reaffirm American pluralism, American newspapers for undercounting the size of his inauguration crowd and the actress Meryl Streep for calling him out for bullying a handicapped reporter. And yet “Mr. Patriotism” has barely uttered a word of criticism on Twitter or off about a Russian president who has intervened in our democratic process.
我不是说特朗普不是合法当选的总统；他获胜是有很多理由的。但我认为他的行为不像总统的样子。特朗普把自己包裹在美国国旗之中，打造成一个“爱国先生”。然而，他在自己的Twitter帐户上攻击宝马(BMW)公司在墨西哥建立汽车厂；攻击波音公司对政府飞机收价过高；攻击呼吁副总统重申美国多元化的《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)演员；攻击美国报纸低估了他就职典礼的观众规模；还攻击演员梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)批评他霸凌一个残疾记者。然而，对于一个干预我们民主进程的俄罗斯总统，无论是在Twitter上或是Twitter之外，“爱国先生”几乎没有提出半句批评的话。
That’s not O.K.
这是不对的。
“The Russians did not just hack into some emails or break into some banks in America. They attacked the very things that make America what it is — that makes it so special: its rule of law and its democratic form of choosing and changing leaders,” said Nader Mousavizadeh, who was a senior adviser to United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan.
“俄罗斯人不仅仅是入侵一些电子邮件或闯入美国的一些银行。他们还攻击美国最本质的东西——让美国如此特别的东西：它的法治，以及它选择和改变领导人的民主形式，”前联合国秘书长科菲·安南(Kofi Annan)的高级顾问纳德·穆萨维扎德(Nader Mousavizadeh)说，
I am not looking to go to war with Russia over this. Back in the 1990s, this column was among the loudest voices warning against NATO expansion — that it would one day come back to haunt us, which it has, by making Russia feel threatened. I don’t care about Putin. His regime will fail because he is forever looking for dignity in all the wrong places, by drilling for oil and gas instead of unleashing the creativity of his people. But I am not willing to settle for evicting a few Russian agents and then moving on. We need to get to the truth, look it squarely in the eye and then act proportionately.
我不想因为这个就和俄罗斯开战。早在1990年代，我的专栏曾大声呼吁人们警惕北约(NATO)扩张——当时我认为，由于使俄罗斯感到威胁，这个问题总有一天会回来困扰我们，如今也的确如此。我不担心普京。他的政权终将失败，因为他总在各种错误的地方寻找尊严，通过开采石油和天然气，而不是释放人民的创造力来寻找尊严。但我不愿意只是驱逐几个俄罗斯间谍了事，然后就这么继续前进。我们需要得到真相，公正地直面它，然后采取相应行动。
Trump and his senior aides have spent their first weeks in power doing nothing more than telling us how afraid we should be of Muslim immigrants who have not been properly vetted by our intelligence and immigration authorities. Well, Putin was vetted by the F.B.I., C.I.A. and N.S.A., and they concluded that he attacked our country’s most important institution — and Trump has acted as if he could not care less.
特朗普和他的高级助手在上任最初几个星期里只是告诉我们，我们应该有多么害怕那些没有经过情报和移民部门充分审查的穆斯林移民。那么，普京是由联邦调查局、中央情报局和国家安全局仔细审查过的，他们的结论是，普京攻击了我们国家最重要的制度——特朗普的表现好像是他根本就不在乎。
If the rest of us do the same, we’ll get the country we deserve, and it will not be great.
如果我们也不在乎，那么我们就不配有一个伟大的国家。