As hapless as the news media and the Washington establishment have at times appeared as they flail about in the political tempest wrought by Donald Trump, there is another group in the 2016 election cycle that has come off looking at least as bewildered: the campaign gurus of Trump’s Republican opponents.
新闻媒体和华盛顿的政要，在唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)掀起的政治风暴中时常显得相当狼狈。但在2016年的大选周期中，还有另一个群体的困惑程度至少不亚于前者：特朗普的共和党对手麾下的选战专家。
Since Watergate, each new president has been ushered in by his own personal Rasputin. Jimmy Carter had Hamilton Jordan, whose 80-page memorandum laid out the electoral pathway for the obscure Georgia governor. Ronald Reagan had Michael Deaver, whose acute understanding of campaign atmospherics would cause Reagan to be viewed as the father of the photo-op. George Bush had his alley-fighting operative, Lee Atwater; Bill Clinton had James Carville, the jut-jawed Cajun campaign veteran; George W. Bush had the ingenious and sharp-elbowed adviser, Karl Rove; Barack Obama had his digitally savvy campaign manager, David Plouffe. The Beltway has come to expect such savants and to confer on them a princely status.
自水门事件之后，每一位总统的当选，都要仰赖他自己的拉斯普京(Rasputin)。吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)有汉密尔顿·乔丹(Hamilton Jordan)，乔丹用长达80页的备忘录，为这个名不见经传的州长规划了在大选中取胜的路径。罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)有迈克尔·迪弗(Michael Deaver)，他对竞选的氛围有敏锐的理解，善用时机巧妙的摆拍来造势，让里根成了这一领域的鼻祖。乔治·布什(George Bush)拥有可以冲锋陷阵的助手李·阿特沃特(Lee Atwater)；比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)麾下有选战老将，下巴突出的卡津人詹姆斯·卡维尔(James Carville)；乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)有计谋多端又咄咄逼人的顾问卡尔·罗夫(Karl Rove)；奥巴马则有对数字技术了如指掌竞选经理戴维·普洛夫(David Plouffe)。华盛顿的政治精英渐渐地开始对这种专业人士有所期待，并把他们捧到了很高的位置。
Trump has laid to waste this tradition. If, as expected, he prevails in most of the primary elections tonight, the billionaire developer will most likely be the Republican Party’s nominee — and will have shredded a number of strategic master plans drawn up by his opponents’ well-paid advisers. And Trump will have accomplished this feat with a skeleton crew of largely unknown hired hands whose stated operating principle is “Let Trump Be Trump.” (His campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, last worked with Americans For Prosperity, the advocacy group backed by the billionaire Koch brothers, and before that, the losing 2002 re-election race of Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire. His 26-year-old spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, had never worked on a political campaign.)
特朗普打破了这种传统。如果他像外界预期的那样在今晚举行初选的多数州获胜的话，这位开发房地产的亿万富翁极有可能会被共和党提名为总统候选人，而他的对手重金聘请的顾问制定的一系列宏大战略规划，就都要被撕成碎片了。特朗普之所以能取得这样的成绩，只是依靠了一小群从外面雇来的基本上默默无闻的助手，他们宣扬的行动原则只是“让特朗普作特朗普”(Let Trump Be Trump)。（他的竞选经理科里·勒万多斯基[Corey Lewandowski]过去曾在亿万富翁科赫[Koch]兄弟资助的倡导团体“美国繁荣”[Americans For Prosperity]供职，在那之前，他曾参与2002年新罕布什尔州参议员鲍勃·史密斯[Bob Smith]竞选连任时的团队。那一年史密斯败选。特朗普26岁的发言人，霍普·希克斯[Hope Hicks]过去从未参与过竞选活动。）
“I think you can argue that the key to this race is the assumption everyone made that winning a nomination is easy,” said Stuart Stevens, the senior strategist for the Republicans’ last nominee, Mitt Romney. Stevens was principally referring to Jeb Bush’s campaign, which believed it could pre-emptively crush the opposition with money; even before he formally announced his candidacy, Bush boasted of setting a Republican record for fund-raising. But Stevens also pointed to Ted Cruz’s team — which, he said, “has pursued this Lost Tribes of the Amazon theory, where if you paddle far enough, you’ll find all these white voters who have never voted before.”
“我想可以说，这场选战中的一个重点是，所有人都以为赢得提名很容易，”斯图尔特·史蒂文斯(Stuart Stevens)说。史蒂文斯是上一次总统大选中的共和党候选人米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的高级策略师，他的这番话指的主要是杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)的竞选，他的团队以为可以用钱先发制人地扼杀对手。还没有正式宣布参选之时，他就创下了共和党筹款的纪录。但是史蒂文斯也在讲泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)的团队。他说，他们“执行了一种‘亚马逊雨林的失落部落’的理论，仿佛只要在河里划得足够远，就能找到过去从来没有投过票的大量白人选民”。
He also expressed bafflement at the strategy of Marco Rubio’s campaign, which held that the candidate could survive a long war of attrition by not losing badly in the early contests. “History shows it doesn’t matter who comes in second, third or fourth,” Stevens said. “You have to win states. It’s like the prison movies where you go find the bull of the yard and punch him out. That’s the only way you become top dog. It turns out that only one candidate has been focused on winning, and that’s Donald Trump.”
他还对马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)的竞选策略表示了诧异。卢比奥的团队以为，只要这位候选人在早期的角逐中输得不那么惨，就能在漫长的消耗战中活下来。“历史表明，谁排在第二、第三、第四并不重要，”史蒂文斯说。“必须要赢得一些州。就像监狱片儿里演的，你要找到狱霸，把他揍扁。只有这样你才能当老大。到头来，一直专注于取胜的只有一个候选人，那就是唐纳德·特朗普。”
Stevens himself endured considerable criticism — from Trump, among others — for the manner in which the Romney general-election campaign was waged. And, like virtually every other commentator, he failed to forecast Trump’s staying power, predicting after the front-runner’s loss in Iowa that he would not win a single primary. But Stevens worked for the two successful presidential campaigns of George W. Bush; his misjudgments have not been the product of inexperience.
史蒂文斯自己也曾因为罗姆尼大选期间的选战打法受到了许多批评，批评者包括特朗普及其他人。而且就像其他所有评论人士一样，他也不曾预料特朗普的势头能持续这么久。一直领跑的特朗普在艾奥瓦州失利后，他曾预言特朗普一场初选也赢不了。但史蒂文斯曾参与过乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)两场成功的竞选，他之所以错估形势并不是因为经验不足。
“When you work for a serious person, you can’t go out and say things that are just untrue,” said Danny Diaz, Jeb Bush’s campaign manager. “You can’t go out and say things that completely contradict your body of work and record. And Trump feels completely uninhibited making arguments with no foundation in truth. And if you’re a serious candidate, you offer policy proposals. He is operating under different rules, through sheer force of his persona and the celebrity culture he’s taken advantage of. And look, from the perspective of marketing and branding, he deserves a lot of credit.”
“如果是给一个正经人做事，你不能就这么在外面说一些根本不存在的事情，”杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)的竞选经理丹尼·迪亚兹(Danny Diaz)说。“你不能去说一些和你的工作和过往记录完全冲突的东西。特朗普觉得自己完全不受约束，可以提出完全没有事实依据的主张。如果你是一个正经的候选人，你应该拿出政策方案。他是在另一套规则下运作的，利用了他的个人形象以及名人文化的强大力量。你看，从市场营销和品牌的角度讲，他有很多值得肯定的地方。”
Trump clearly benefited from early low expectations, from the news media’s fascination with his outrageous utterances and from an unusually crowded field of candidates. (“Ten candidates on a debate stage — the person who benefited the most was the guy who could say five crazy things to lock in his 30 percent,” Diaz said.) But he also enjoyed the unique status of being a businessman whose only relationship with politics was his boastful assertion that he had been able to game the system in his favor. “At the end of the day, he’s doing really well because he’s not a politician, and everyone else is,” said Mike DuHaime, the senior strategist for Chris Christie. “Others tried to say they were outsiders. He truly was.”
一开始的不被看好，新闻媒体对他的夸张言论的痴迷，以及格外拥挤的候选人战场，这些显然都是对特朗普有利的地方。（“10个候选人站在辩论台上——那个能说出五件疯狂的事情，锁定30%的发言时间的人，肯定就是最占便宜的了，”迪亚兹说。）然而独特的身份也是一个优势，他是一个商人，唯一能跟政治扯上关系的地方是，他得意洋洋地宣称自己可以根据自己的意愿摆弄这个体制。“到头来，他的表现这么好是因为他不是政客，其他所有人都是，”克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)的高级策略师迈克·杜海姆(Mike DuHaime)说。“有的人企图说自己是局外人。他是真的局外人。”
The single biggest strategic failure of the 2016 campaign so far has been the failure of Trump’s opponents to attack him until the die was already cast. Partly this is because of the preoccupation that Bush, Rubio, Christie and John Kasich had with one another — the antiquated obsession with “winning the Establishment Lane” — and the need to define what they themselves stood for. But the one candidate who did go after Trump, Bush, came off worse for the experience, which no doubt caused the other candidates to think twice before doing so. (That Bush’s “super PAC,” Right to Rise, spent more money on negative ads against Rubio than against Trump will remain one of 2016’s crowning perplexities.)
2016年竞选的最大战略失误是特朗普的对手们没有攻击他，等到回过神来已经晚了。这一定程度上是因为布什、卢比奥、克里斯蒂和约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)这几人在死盯着彼此——全神贯注于“赢取共和党高层的支持”——还有他们认为自己需要对自己的立场做出界定。然而，唯一去冲击了特朗普的候选人布什，落了个更糟的下场，这无疑也让其他候选人不敢轻举妄动。（不过，布什的“超级政治行动委员会”崛起权利[Right to Rise]在针对卢比奥的负面广告上花的钱，比针对特朗普的还多，这将是2016年最令人困惑的事情之一。）
The hesitancy to attack Trump can also be explained by the fact that much of the resources for doing so remained on the sidelines until very recently. “A lot of the so-called establishment donors didn’t want to commit to anyone, out of fear of offending everyone else,” DuHaime said. “If you’re a friend of Chris Christie, you’re probably also a friend of the Bushes. They all wanted to wait. And waiting ended up hurting all of us.”
在攻击特朗普上的犹豫不决，也解释了为什么用于这种攻击的资源一直留在场外，直到最近才出现改变。“许多所谓的建制派捐献人不想只投一个人，因为他们不想得罪其他人，”杜海姆说。“如果你是克里斯·克里斯蒂的朋友，你可能也是布什的朋友。他们都想等等看。结果是等待坑了我们所有人。”
But several of Trump’s opponents — most notably Cruz — clearly demurred from attacking the front-runner in hopes of eventually inheriting Trump’s voters. “The calculus was, I’m not going to engage Trump, because tactically it will disadvantage me down the road,” said Steve Schmidt, who was a senior adviser to George W. Bush’s 2004 campaign before becoming John McCain’s senior campaign strategist in 2008. “But they misunderstood the nature of the Trump candidacy and the need to be as big as Trump, in an oppositional sense. None of them rose to the bigness of a moment that has seen a total collapse in institutions — an era of systemic fraud, combined with flat wage growth over a generation, and with no solutions offered. It’s the job of a leader to contextualize all of that and to explain both the struggles today and the possibility of triumph tomorrow. How many speeches of great American leaders like F.D.R. or Eisenhower do you think these candidates read before they ran for president? I think not too many.”
但是特朗普的许多对手——尤其是克鲁兹——显然不愿意攻击这个领头羊，因为他们希望最终能接手特朗普的选民。“他们算计的是，我不要去碰特朗普，因为从战术上讲这对我后面的工作是不利的，”史蒂夫·施密特(Steve Schmidt)说，他是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的2004年竞选高级顾问，2008年又做了约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)的高级竞选策略师。“但是他们对特朗普的竞选活动的本质有误判，没有认识到他们要在对立的立场上，做到跟特朗普一样大。跟这样一个惯有体制已经彻底崩溃的时刻相比，他们都不够大——这是一个体制性欺诈的时代，再加上整整一代人的收入不见起色，而他们没有给出解决方案。一个领导人的职责是把这些联系起来考虑，既解释今天的挣扎，又提出来日获得胜利的可能性。在决定竞选总统之前，这些人读了多少美国伟大领袖的演讲稿，比如FDR（富兰克林·德拉诺·罗斯福）或艾森豪威尔？我看不多。”