In 2005, Tim O’Brien, then a financial reporter at The New York Times, published the book “TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald.” O'Brien talked to sources with an up-close view of Donald J. Trump’s finances, who concluded that the real-estate developer’s net worth was $150 million to $250 million, rather than the $2 billion to $5 billion Trump had variously claimed. Trump, who had courted O’Brien by taking him for rides in his Ferrari and private jet, sued O’Brien for libel in New Jersey in 2006. Trump called O’Brien a “wack job” on the “Today” show — while, O’Brien says, continuing to curry favor with him privately. O’Brien’s publisher, Warner Books, was also named in the suit and hired top lawyers who put Trump through an unsparing two-day deposition. Asked about his finances, Trump was caught lying or exaggerating 30 times. “He thought he’d get a friendly judge, and we would roll over,” says O’Brien, who is now the executive editor of Bloomberg View. “We didn’t.” The case went through four judges and was dismissed in 2009.
2005年，尚在《纽约时报》(The New York Times)担任财经记者的蒂姆·奥布莱恩(Tim O’Brien)出版了《特朗普帝国：成为唐纳德的艺术》(TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald)一书。奥布莱恩采访过的一些消息人士对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的财务状况有着近距离的观察，他们认为这位房地产开发商的净值应该在1.5亿至2.5亿美元之间，而非特朗普本人此前宣称的从20亿至50亿美元不等的数字。曾极力拉拢奥布莱恩，让其搭乘自己的法拉利(Ferrari)和私人飞机的特朗普，于2006年在新泽西州起诉奥布莱恩诽谤。特朗普在《今日秀》(Today)上管奥布莱恩叫“怪胎”，但据后者所说，特朗普又在私下里继续巴结他。奥布莱恩的出版商华纳书局(Warner Books)也卷入了这场诉讼，其聘任的顶级律师毫不留情地对特朗普进行了为期两天的质询取证。回答关于自身财务状况的提问时，特朗普被发现撒谎或夸大其辞的次数多达三十次。“他当初以为自己会遇到一位友好的法官，以为我们会拱手认输，”目前是《彭博视点》(Bloomberg View)主编的奥布莱恩说。“但我们没有。”该案前后由四位法官经手，于2009年被驳回。
Trump’s suit against O’Brien is one of seven forays President-elect Trump and his companies have made as libel plaintiffs. He won only once, when a defendant failed to appear. But the standard measure — defending his reputation and achieving victory in court — isn’t how Trump says he thinks about his investment. “I spent a couple of bucks on legal fees, and they spent a whole lot more,” he told The Washington Post in March about the hefty sum he spent on the case against O’Brien. “I did it to make his life miserable, which I’m happy about.”
特朗普诉奥布莱恩案，是由候任总统特朗普及其公司作为原告提起的七桩诽谤诉讼之一。他只在一名被告没有出庭的情况下赢过一次。作为对这种诉讼的标准衡量，是要看在何种程度上能通过法庭捍卫其名誉并赢得胜利，但特朗普表示，他不这么看待相关的投入产出。“我在律师费上花点小钱，他们花的钱则多得多，”谈及为状告奥布莱恩而付出的大把金钱，他在3月份这样告诉《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)。“我告他是为了让他的生活陷入水深火热，我对此喜闻乐见。”
Trump was wrong: Warner Books spent less than he did, and O’Brien paid nothing. But that doesn’t make Trump’s central idea any less jarring: that libel law can be a tool of revenge. It’s disconcerting for a superrich (if maybe not as rich as he says) plaintiff to treat the legal system as a weapon to be deployed against critics. Once installed in the White House, Trump will have a wider array of tools at his disposal, and his record suggests that, more than his predecessors, he will try to use the press — and also control and subdue it.
特朗普错了：华纳书局花的钱比他少，奥布莱恩则一分钱都没花。但这并不会让特朗普的核心观念显得不那么刺耳：诽谤法可以成为复仇的工具。一名超级富有（虽说也许不像他所声称的那么富有）的原告居然把法律体系当成打压批评者的利器，这令人颇为不安。一旦入主白宫，特朗普就可以调用更多工具，而他以往的所作所为表明，他会比前任们更进一步，竭力在利用媒体的同时将其控制起来，令其低头。
As a candidate, Trump blustered vaguely that he wanted to “open up our libel laws.” I asked his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, by email what he meant by that, but she didn’t answer the question (or others I posed). It’s not within the president’s direct powers to change the rules for libel suits. But our legal safeguards for writers and publishers aren’t foolproof. In the last few years, Trump has been joined by at least two billionaires who are determined to exploit cracks in the wall of defense around the press. The members of this club are innovators. They have sued or funded suits to defend reputations or protect privacy. But an underlying aim appears to be to punish critics like O’Brien or even destroy entire media outlets.
身为总统候选人的特朗普曾模糊地表示，想要“开放我们的诽谤法”。我通过电子邮件问过他的发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)，这话是什么意思，但她没有回答这个问题（以及我提出的其他问题）。总统是无权直接改变诽谤诉讼法规的。但我们给予作者和出版商的法律保障并非铜墙铁壁。过去几年间，至少有两名亿万富豪加入了特朗普的行列，决意大加利用新闻界四周防护墙上出现的裂缝。他们已经发起了诉讼或者为诉讼提供了资助，以便捍卫名誉或者保护隐私。但一个根本目的似乎是惩罚奥布莱恩这样的批评者，乃至于摧毁整个媒体机构。
This kind of manipulation of the law is unfolding at a keen moment of weakness for the press, which has already been buffeted by falling revenue and mounting public disaffection. Only 40 percent of the public — the lowest rate since at least the 1990s — trusts the media “to report the news fully, accurately and fairly,” according to a Gallup survey conducted in September 2015. This mistrust has been growing for a long time, but it was stoked by Trump during the campaign. He called the reporters who covered him “scum” and whipped up yelling and booing crowds. There is no consensus among his supporters that the press should hold those in power accountable. A recent Pew survey found that only half of Trump backers agreed that it was important in a strong democracy that “news organizations are free to criticize political leaders.”
新闻界已经因为收入的下降和公众不满程度的上升而遭受重创，这种对法律的操控则在它难掩疲态的敏感时刻方兴未艾。盖洛普于2015年9月开展的一项调查显示，只有40％的民众——创下至少是上世纪90年代以来的新低——相信媒体会“全面、准确、公正地报道新闻”。这种不信任感在很长一段时间里日益增加，尤其在竞选期间被特朗普大力激发了出来。他把报道他的记者称为“人渣”，并设法鼓动那些大喊大叫、发出嘘声的集会参与者。他的支持者并未就媒体应该对掌权者进行追责达成一致。皮尤研究中心(Pew)最近的一项民调显示，特朗普的支持者中只有一半的人认为，在强大的民主体制中，“新闻机构拥有批评政治领导人的自由”是很重要的。
Media outlets have won many cases by persuading a judge to dismiss them. But since 2010, they have succeeded in only 39 percent of the libel and privacy suits that have gone to trial, a dip from 52 percent in the previous decade, according to the Media Law Resource Center. The median damage award has increased fivefold since the 1980s, to $1.1 million. The figure includes three big verdicts over the last eight months, against Gawker, Rolling Stone and The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C. These include run-of-the-mill libel suits, and it’s too early to say that the sky is falling on the press. But it’s darkening.
通过说服法官驳回案件，新闻机构赢得了许多次胜利。但根据媒体法律资源中心(Media Law Resource Center)的数据，自2010年以来，在进入了审理阶段的诽谤案和侵犯隐私案中，新闻机构的胜诉率只有39%，低于上一个十年间的52%。自上世纪80年代以来，损害赔偿金额增加了四倍，达到110万美元。该数字涵盖了过去8个月以来不利于高客传媒(Gawker)、《滚石》(Rolling Stone)和北卡罗莱纳州罗利市《新闻与观察报》(The News and Observer)的三项重大判决。这其中包括一些很普通的诽谤诉讼，现在就说媒体的天塌了还为时尚早。但天空的确正在变暗。
The high bar for winning a libel case in the United States was set in 1964, when the Supreme Court decided New York Times v. Sullivan. In that case, widely hailed as one of the court’s strongest stands for free speech, L.B. Sullivan, a city commissioner who supervised the police in Montgomery, Ala., sued The Times over an ad in the newspaper signed by 100 civil rights supporters. The ad turned out to include minor factual errors. Sullivan said its depiction of how the Montgomery police responded to civil rights protests made him look bad. Under the rules at the time, a libel plaintiff was entitled to victory if he could show that the content that harmed his reputation was false. The Alabama jury agreed with Sullivan on that point and awarded him $500,000 in damages (the equivalent of about $4 million today). With similar cases pending, The Times pulled its reporters out of Alabama.
在美国，打赢诽谤官司的高标杆是于1964年树立起来的，那一年，最高法院(Supreme Court)就《纽约时报》诉沙利文案作出了裁决。该案被普遍奉为最能体现最高法院对言论自由的强烈支持的案例之一。阿拉巴马州蒙哥马利的市政专员沙利文作为该市警方的督导者，就《纽约时报》刊发的一则附有100名民权运动支持者签名的广告，对该报发起了诉讼。有证据表明这则广告里含有微小的事实性错误。沙利文说，广告中关于蒙哥马利警方如何回应旨在争取民权的抗议活动的描述，让他看起来像是一个很糟糕的人。根据当时的法规，诽谤案原告如果能够证明对其名誉造成损害的内容是虚假的，就有资格赢得胜利。阿拉巴马州的法官在这一点上同意沙利文的说法，并宣布他可以获得50万美元的损害赔偿（大约相当于今天的400万美元）。在类似的案件悬而未决之际，《时报》将其记者撤出了阿拉巴马州。
But when the newspaper appealed to the Supreme Court, the justices threw out the Sullivan verdict and set a far stiffer standard for proving libel. The court wrote that a public figure has to prove that a false and damaging statement about him was published with “actual malice,” translated as “knowing or reckless disregard for the truth.” By the 1980s, the number of libel suits decreased, and if suits did go to trial, they frequently ended in defeat for the plaintiff. In two examples from that era, Gen. William Westmoreland sued CBS, and Ariel Sharon, the Israeli defense minister, sued Time magazine. Neither man won damages. Those outcomes, as well as losses in other high-profile cases, “were a major deterrent for plaintiffs and their lawyers,” says George Freeman, executive director of the Media Resource Law Center (and formerly a lawyer for The New York Times).
不过，当该报向最高法院提起上诉的时候，大法官们推翻了沙利文案的判决结果，并就如何证明存在诽谤设定了严格得多的标准。法院在判决书中写道，一名公众人物必须证明，对他造成不良影响的虚假陈述是被对方带着“切实的恶意”发表出来的，也就是说需要证明对方“蓄意或者贸然无视事实”。到了上世纪80年代，诽谤案的数量有所下降，而且即便案子真的进入了审理阶段，也常常以原告败诉告终。那个时期的两个知名案例分别是威廉·C·威斯特摩兰(William C. Westmoreland)上将诉CBS案和以色列国防部长阿里埃勒·沙龙(Ariel Sharon)诉《时代》(Time)杂志案。两人都没能获得损失赔偿。这样的结果，以及在其他备受瞩目的案件中的失利，“是对原告及其律师的巨大威慑，”媒体法律资源中心的行政总监（曾为《时报》律师）乔治·弗里曼(George Freeman)说。
Superrich plaintiffs, however, aren’t subject to the same market forces. They can treat suing the press as an investment, with the payoff being, at a minimum, the expense and time required for the other side to produce documents and sit for depositions. In February 2012, the magazine Mother Jones published a story about the Idaho billionaire Frank VanderSloot, a major donor to a “super PAC” that supported the Republican presidential candidate, Mitt Romney. In 1999, in response to a documentary, he sponsored billboards that asked, “Should public television promote the homosexual lifestyle to your children?” The magazine wrote that VanderSloot “outed” a gay reporter, Peter Zuckerman, and “bashed” Zuckerman and his reporting after he helped break a story in 2005 about a history of pedophilia by a Boy Scouts camp counselor in Idaho Falls. The portrayal of VanderSloot was based partly on several ads that he placed in The Idaho Falls Post Register. VanderSloot was upset at the story’s implications for the Boy Scouts, and the ads called Zuckerman a “homosexual” and attacked him for having “a personal ax to grind.”
然而，如今的超级富豪原告并未屈从于同样的市场力量。他们会把起诉媒体当成一种投资，而这项投资的收益至少包括：让对方不得不花费金钱和时间，来提交文件并作为证人接受讯问。2012年2月，《琼斯母亲》(Mother Jones)杂志刊发了一篇关于爱达荷州亿万富豪弗兰克·范德士(Frank VanderSloot)的报道，此人是一个支持共和党总统候选人米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的“超级政治行动委员会”的主要捐赠者之一。1999年，作为对一部纪录片的回应，他曾出钱发布了问出这样一个问题的广告：“公共电视台应该向你的孩子推介同性恋生活方式吗？”该杂志称，范德士在同性恋记者彼得·扎克曼(Peter Zuckerman)于2005年帮助曝出了爱达荷瀑布市一名童子军营辅导员的恋童癖历史之后，便曝光了扎克曼的同性恋身份，并猛烈抨击扎克曼及其报道。对范德士的描绘部分是基于他在爱达荷瀑布市邮报(The Idaho Falls Post Register)上登的几则广告。范德士被该报道给童子军造成的负面影响惹恼了，那几则广告把扎克曼称为“同性恋者”，并攻击他“动机不纯”。
VanderSloot sued Mother Jones for libel over the article. “They wanted to give me a public beating because I made a sizable donation to Mitt Romney,” he told me. VanderSloot, who owns an online health-shopping club, also said the Mother Jones article cost him customers.
范德士就《琼斯母亲》的这篇文章起诉该杂志诽谤。“他们想要公开鞭跶我，因为我给米特·罗姆尼捐了很多钱，”他告诉我。拥有一家线上健康产品购物俱乐部的范德士还表示，《琼斯母亲》的文章让他丢掉了一些客户。
Over three years of proceedings, which included turning over internal emails, Mother Jones racked up about $2.5 million in legal fees. Insurance didn’t cover the whole cost. “The suit was a huge drain on us,” Clara Jeffery, editor in chief of the magazine, told me. “We’re still digging our way out.”
在为期三年的诉讼过程中——其间还包括了内部电子邮件的提交——《琼斯母亲》支付了约250万美元的法律费用。保险公司没有将相关费用完全报销。“这场诉讼吸走了我们的大量资源，”该杂志执行主编克拉拉·杰弗里(Clara Jeffery)告诉我。“我们仍在恢复的过程中。”
Judge Darla Williamson finally threw out VanderSloot’s suit in October 2015, finding that Mother Jones’s statements about him were either substantially true or opinions protected by the First Amendment. But Williamson took the unusual step of including a section in her opinion partially supporting his underlying complaint, accusing the magazine of “mudslinging” rather than recognizing its approach as squarely within the tradition of investigative journalism. Despite his defeat, VanderSloot declared himself “absolutely vindicated” and announced that he was creating a “Guardian of True Liberty Fund” to aid other people who want to sue the “liberal press.” The fund has grown to between $1 million and $2 million, he told me, with five times that amount pledged, so that “as soon as something hits we think is worth it, we can go after it.”
法官达拉·威廉姆森(Darla Williamson)发现《琼斯母亲》关于范德士的陈述要么大体上是真实的，要么属于受到宪法第一修正案保护的言论，最终于2015年10月驳回了范德士的诉讼请求。但威廉姆森做出了一个不寻常的举动：在判决书中加入了她自己的观点，对范德士的基本控诉予以部分支持。她指责该杂志“泼脏水”，而不是去认定它是在依照调查性新闻的传统正当行事。尽管输掉了官司，但范德士还是声称这“完全证明了自己的无辜”，并宣布他正在创办“真正自由捍卫者基金会”(Guardian of True Liberty Fund)，以便帮助其他想要起诉“自由派媒体”的人。他告诉我，该基金的规模已经增长到了100万至200万美元之间，并获得了五倍于当前金额的资金承诺，这样一来“一旦遇到我们认为值得出手的事情，我们就可以出手”。