Trump and Putin speak, officially.
特朗普和普京正式交谈。
They were accused by detractors of being bosom buddies, in cahoots over underhanded efforts to rig the American election — accusations candidate Trump denied. Now, President-elect Trump and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia have spoken.
批评者指控他们是好兄弟，在私下秘谋操纵美国选举——特朗普在竞选期间否认了指控。现在，当选总统特朗普和俄罗斯总统普京进行了交谈。
The Kremlin released a readout Monday of the first call between Mr. Putin and the president-elect since he won the election, saying the men expressed mutual optimism about improving the dire state of relations between the two countries.
克里姆林宫周一发布了一份对普京总统和特朗普获选以来第一次电话通话的解读，称他们对于改善两国之间的糟糕关系都表示了乐观。
According to the Kremlin, Mr. Putin said he hoped to work with Mr. Trump in an atmosphere of mutual respect without interfering in each other’s internal affairs. They also talked about fighting international terrorism and settling the crisis in Syria.
克里姆林宫称，普京表示希望在相互尊重的气氛中与特朗普合作，不干涉彼此的内政。他们还谈到打击国际恐怖主义和解决叙利亚危机的问题。
The Trump transition team reported that “President-elect Trump noted to President Putin that he is very much looking forward to having a strong and enduring relationship with Russia and the people of Russia.”
特朗普过渡团队说，“当选总统特朗普对普京总统说，他非常期待与俄罗斯和俄罗斯人民建立牢固、持久的关系。
While Mr. Trump said he hoped to have a constructive relationship with Russia, he insisted during one of his debates with Hillary Clinton that he was “no puppet” of Mr. Putin.
特朗普说，他希望与俄罗斯保持建设性的关系。在与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的一次辩论中，他坚称自己不是普京的“傀儡”。
Hate crimes surge, led by attacks on Muslims.
仇恨犯罪激增，以攻击穆斯林为首。
The F.B.I. reported Monday that attacks against American Muslims rose last year, driving an increase of about 7 percent in hate crimes against all victims.
联邦调查局(FBI)周一表示，去年针对美国穆斯林的攻击上升，导致针对所有受害者的仇恨犯罪增加了约7%。
The data, the most comprehensive look at threat crimes nationwide, expanded on previous findings by researchers and outside monitors, who have noted an alarming rise in some types of hate crimes tied to the intense vitriol of the presidential campaign and the aftermath of terror attacks at home and abroad since 2015.
这些数据是对全国范围内威胁犯罪的一个综览，它详细阐述了研究人员和外部监测人员以前的调查结果，他们注意到，某些类型的仇恨犯罪出现了令人震惊的上升，这与总统竞选活动中的激烈诋毁，以及2015年以来国内外发生的恐怖袭击有关。
A wave of racially charged assaults, graffiti attacks and other episodes has swept the country since Election Day, prompting Mr. Trump to call for a halt to it during a “60 Minutes” interview broadcast on Sunday night.
选举日之后，一波种族主义的袭击、涂鸦攻击和其他事件席卷了全国，促使特朗普在周日晚上的访谈节目《60分钟》(60 Minutes)里呼吁停止这种行为。
In its report Monday, the F.B.I. cataloged a total of 5,818 hate crimes in 2015 — a rise of nearly 340 over the year before — including assaults, bombings, threats and property destruction against minorities, women, gays and others.
FBI周一的报告显示，2015年共计出现了5818宗仇恨犯罪，比前一年增加了近340宗，包括针对少数族裔、女性、同性恋者和其他人的攻击、炸弹袭击、威胁和财产破坏。
Attacks against Muslim Americans saw the biggest surge: 257 reports of assaults, attacks on mosques and other types hate crimes against Muslims last year, a jump of about 67 percent over the year before. It was the highest total since 2001, when the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks saw more than 480 attacks.
针对美国穆斯林的袭击出现了最大程度的爆发：去年共有257宗攻击、袭击清真寺和其他类型的穆斯林仇恨犯罪，比上年增加了约67%。这是自2001年以来的最高记录，那年“9·11”事件发生后，这个数字曾超过了480宗。
Attacks against transgender people also sharply increased, the data showed.
数据显示，针对跨性别者的攻击也大幅增加了。
Law enforcement officials acknowledge that the statistics give an incomplete picture because many local agencies still have a spotty record of reporting hate crimes, 26 years after Congress directed the Justice Department to begin collecting the data.
执法官员承认，统计数据并不完整，因为在国会指示司法部开始收集这种数据26年之后，很多地方机构对仇恨犯罪的报告仍不尽如人意。
“We need to do a better job of tracking and reporting hate crime to fully understand what is happening in our communities and how to stop it,” James B. Comey Jr., the F.B.I. director, said Monday.
“我们需要更好地跟踪和汇报仇恨犯罪，以便充分了解社区正在发生的事情以及如何阻止它。” FBI局长小詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey Jr.)周一表示。