LONDON — President Donald Trump escalated his attack on Sweden’s migration policies Monday, doubling down on his suggestion — based on a Fox News report — that refugees in the Scandinavian country were behind a surge in crime and terrorism.
伦敦——周一，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统升级他对瑞典移民政策的抨击，再次强化他基于福克斯新闻频道的一则报道做出的暗示，即这个斯堪的纳维亚国家接收的难民导致该国犯罪与恐怖主义激增。
Trump set off consternation and ridicule Saturday when he seemed to falsely imply to an adoring throng at a rally in Florida that a terrorist attack had occurred in Sweden, which has admitted tens of thousands of refugees in recent years.
上周六，特朗普在佛罗里达举行的一场集会活动上似乎错误地对一群仰慕者暗示瑞典发生了一起恐怖袭击，引发一番错愕与嘲弄。最近几年，瑞典接收了数以万计的难民。
On Sunday, as questions swirled, a White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said that “he was talking about rising crime and recent incidents in general, not referring to a specific issue.”
周日，随着质疑扩大，白宫发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)表示，“他是在整体上谈论犯罪不断增加和最近的一些事件，而不是特指某个问题。”
Trump then said on Twitter that he was referring to a Fox News segment about an American filmmaker who argues that the police in Sweden were covering up a migrant-driven crime wave.
接着特朗普在Twitter上表示，他指的是福克斯新闻频道对一位美国电影制作人的采访，后者坚称瑞典警方在掩盖一波由移民引发的犯罪浪潮。
Officials in both countries expressed alarm and dismay Monday at Trump’s remarks. Sen. Bob Casey, D-Pa., said the president should get his information from intelligence agencies and not from television. The Swedish Embassy in Washington offered the Trump administration a briefing on its immigration policies. Sweden’s prime minister, Stefan Lofven, said he was surprised by Trump’s comments, and noted that Sweden ranks highly on international comparisons of economic competitiveness, human development and income inequality.
周一，两个国家的官员都对特朗普的言论表示担忧与惊愕。宾夕法尼亚州民主党参议员鲍勃·凯西(Bob Casey)表示，总统应该从情报机构获取信息，而非电视。瑞典驻华盛顿大使馆向特朗普政府提供了一份有关其移民政策的简报。瑞典首相斯特凡·勒文(Stefan Lofven)表示，他对特朗普的言论感到吃惊，并指出与国际社会相比较，瑞典在经济竞争力、人的发展与收入不均衡上均排名很高。
“We have challenges, no doubt about that,” he allowed, adding: “We must all take responsibility for using facts correctly and for verifying anything we spread.”
“我们也有挑战，这是毋庸置疑的，”他这样承认，并接着表示：“我们所有人都必须承担起正确使用事实、查证自己传播的所有事情的责任。”
Yet even before the prime minister spoke, Trump pursued his attack. On Twitter, he suggested that the news media was covering up problems related to migration in Sweden.
然而，甚至在首相讲这番话之前，特朗普便继续开始抨击。他在Twitter上暗示，新闻媒体在掩盖瑞典与移民有关的问题。
Statistics in Sweden do not back Trump’s claims. Preliminary data released last month by Sweden’s crime prevention council found no appreciable increase in crimes from 2015, when the country processed a record 163,000 asylum applications, to 2016. The council did note an increase in assaults and rapes last year, but also recorded a drop in thefts, robberies and drug offenses. Officials say they have not seen any evidence for the claim, prevalent in right-wing media like Breitbart and Infowars, that migration has driven a surge in crime.
瑞典的数据并不能证明特朗普的断言。瑞典犯罪预防委员会上月发布的初步数据显示，从20015年至2016年，犯罪案件并没有明显增加。2015年，该国处理了16.3万份避难申请，创下历史记录。该委员会的确指出去年该国袭击和强奸案例出现增长，但偷盗、抢劫和毒品犯罪案件有所下降。官员们表示，他们没有看到有任何证据可以证明布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart)和Infowars等右翼媒体广为传播的那项论断，即移民导致犯罪事件激增。
“The general crime rate in Sweden is below the U.S. national average,” the State Department noted in May 2016.
“瑞典的整体犯罪率低于美国全国平均水平，”国务院在2016年5月曾指出。