WASHINGTON — The Justice Department told a federal appeals court on Thursday that it would not seek a rehearing of a decision that shut down President Donald Trump’s targeted travel ban. Instead, the administration will start from scratch, issuing a new executive order, the department said.
华盛顿——周四，美国司法部对一个联邦上诉法庭表示，它不会申请复审，以变更一个针对唐纳德·特朗普总统发布的旅行禁令的叫停裁决。司法部称，特朗普政府将重新发布一个新的行政令。
Last Thursday, a unanimous three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in San Francisco, blocked the key parts of the original executive order, which suspended the nation’s refugee program as well as travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries. The panel said the original ban was unlikely to survive constitutional scrutiny.
上周四，旧金山美国联邦第九巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit)的三位法官组成的审判小组一致禁止了原行政令的关键内容。该行政令暂停了美国的难民项目以及以穆斯林为主的七国公民的入境许可。该委员会称，原禁令很可能无法通过违宪审查。
The Justice Department said that the panel’s decision was riddled with errors but that the flaws it noted would be addressed in the new executive order.
司法部表示，该委员会的裁决充满谬误，但它指出的缺陷将在新行政令中得到解决。
“Rather than continuing this litigation,” the Justice Department’s brief said, “the president intends in the near future to rescind the order and replace it with a new, substantially revised executive order to eliminate what the panel erroneously thought were constitutional concerns.”
司法部在简报中表示，“总统不打算继续进行诉讼，而是打算在近期撤回这条命令，代之以做出大幅修改的新行政令，它会移除委员会错误地认为可能违宪的内容。”
“In so doing,” the brief said, “the president will clear the way for immediately protecting the country rather than pursuing further, potentially time-consuming litigation.”
简报称，“通过这种方式，总统将为立即对美国展开保护扫清障碍，而非进行可能十分耗时的进一步诉讼。”
In a news conference Thursday, Trump said the new executive order would be issued next week.
特朗普在周四的一个新闻发布会上表示，新行政令将于下周发布。
In its brief, the Justice Department urged the appeals court to await the new order and then vacate last Thursday’s decision.
司法部在简报中敦促上诉法庭等候新行政令，然后撤销上周四的裁决。
It is not clear that the issuance of a new and narrower executive order will make the case before the 9th Circuit moot or that the court will agree to vacate the decision even if it did.
尚不清楚发布一个范围更窄的新行政令是否会令第九巡回法院的案件失去实际意义，也不确定即便如此该法庭是否会同意撤销自己的裁决。
The Supreme Court has said the “voluntary cessation” of a government action does not usually make a case moot if the government remains free to resume the conduct after the case is dismissed.
最高法院表示，如果政府在案件被驳回后依然可以继续原来的做法，那么政府行动的“自愿中止”通常不会令一个案件失去实际意义。
In calling for a legal do-over, the Justice Department avoided a Supreme Court test of the original executive order. A 4-4 tie on the short-handed Supreme Court would have left the panel’s decision in place.
司法部通过呼吁在法律层面从头来过，来避免最高法院审议原行政令。人手短缺的最高法院可能出现4比4的平局，从而维持前述审判小组的裁决。
Trump’s travel ban, issued Jan. 27, caused confusion and protests at airports nationwide and was immediately challenged in court. Many federal judges blocked aspects of the order.
特朗普1月27日发布的旅行禁令在美国各地的机场引发了困惑和抗议，很快被告上法庭。多位联邦法官针对该行政令的不同方面发布了禁止令。