Among the many questions about a meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, is where it might happen.
关于特朗普总统与朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)会面的疑问有很多，其中一个是，会面可能会在哪里举行。
Mr. Trump is known for being a reluctant traveler. Mr. Kim is even more of a homebody, not leaving North Korea since he took over after his father’s death in 2011.
众所周知，特朗普不喜欢出行。而金正恩比他还要恋家。自2011年在父亲去世后接掌权力以来，他一直没有离开过朝鲜。
But if the two do meet, which some White House officials believe will never happen, they will need a venue suitable for such a historic moment. Here are a few options:
但如果两人真的要会面——一些白宫官员认为这一幕永远不会发生——他们需要一个适合这一历史性时刻的场所。下面列出了几个选项:
The Demilitarized Zone
非军事区
The village of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized Zone between the two Koreas might be the most promising location for a meeting. Occasional meetings have been held in a small conference room that straddles the dividing line in the Joint Security Area and that has entrances on either side of the border.
位于朝韩两国之间的非军事区内的板门店村，也许最有希望成为举行会面的地方。那里的联合安全区内有一个横跨分界线的小会议室，用于偶尔举行会议。边界两侧都有进入该会议室的入口。
The Peace House on the South Korean side of Panmunjom is a larger building perhaps more suitable to a meeting between the two leaders. North and South Korean representatives met there to plan the North’s participation in the Winter Olympics last month in the South. And Mr. Kim has said he would go there to meet South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in.
板门店韩国一侧的和平之家(Peace House)是一栋更大的建筑，或许更适合两位领导人的会晤。朝鲜和韩国的代表曾在和平之家会面，安排朝鲜参加上月在韩国举行的冬季奥运会事宜。金正恩已表示将前往那里会见韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)。
Pyongyang, North Korea
朝鲜平壤
The North Korean capital has been the site of high-level meetings before. Former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton have visited, and inter-Korean summit meetings were held there in 2000 and 2007.
朝鲜首都以前一直是高层会议的举办地。美国前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)都到访过朝鲜，2000年和2007年的朝韩首脑会议也是在平壤举行的。
It might be an awkward setting for Mr. Trump, though, who would be wary of not being seen as a supplicant. And North Korea might want to give Mr. Trump, who has expressed an interest in military parades, a display of its own.
但对不希望显得在哀求的特朗普来说，这样的地点可能有些尴尬。特朗普表示过对阅兵的兴趣，朝鲜可能想给特朗普展示一场自己的阅兵式。
When Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright visited Pyongyang in 2000 in an attempt to convince Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-un’s father, to halt his ballistic missile program, she attended a mass propaganda performance that included an image of the very missile she was trying to get North Korea to curtail.
当美国国务卿玛德琳·K·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine K. Albright)在2000年访问平壤，试图说服金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)停止弹道导弹计划时，她出席了一场大型宣传表演，其中的一幅画面正是她试图让朝鲜减少的那种导弹。
Jeju Island, South Korea
韩国济州岛
The governor of the South Korean island of Jeju has proposed holding the meeting there. The island, to the south of the Korean Peninsula, is a tourist destination, and its relatively small size and population could make security easier than in a large city like Seoul, the South’s capital.
韩国济州道知事提议在那里举行会面。济州岛位于朝鲜半岛以南，是一个旅游景点。相对较小的面积和人口规模使安保难度低于在韩国首都首尔等大城市举行会面。
Washington
华盛顿
Washington would also be a potential spot, although Mr. Kim would most likely be wary of making the American capital his first trip abroad as North Korea’s leader.
华盛顿也是一个可能的选择，尽管金正恩极有可能不愿让美国的首都成为自己首次以朝鲜领导人身份出访的目的地。
A meeting there would also be awkward for the White House, which would be wary of the propaganda value it could give the North. When Marshal Jo Myong-rok, a high-level North Korean military official, visited Washington in 2000 to invite Mr. Clinton to Pyongyang, he first met with Dr. Albright while wearing a business suit. He then changed into a medal-festooned military uniform and high-brimmed hat to meet with Mr. Clinton, creating an uncomfortable image for the White House.
在华盛顿会面还可能让白宫感到尴尬。白宫对此事可能会给朝鲜带来的宣传价值保持警惕。当朝鲜军方高层官员赵明录(Jo Myong-rok)次帅在2000年访问华盛顿，邀请克林顿访问平壤时，他先是穿着西装同奥尔布赖特会面。然后，他换上了装饰着勋章的军装和盖沿帽与克林顿会晤。这个形象令白宫感到不舒服。
Beijing
北京
China is North Korea’s only significant ally, although their relationship has hardly been close in recent years. Still, China was one of the few countries Kim Jong-il traveled to as North Korea’s leader.
中国是朝鲜唯一的重要盟友，尽管近年来他们的关系谈不上多亲密。不过，中国是金正日作为朝鲜领袖曾到访过的为数不多的国家之一。
China has also played an active role in promoting negotiations among all sides and was a host to the so-called six-party talks a decade ago. Geng Shuang, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, said Friday that China welcomed the meeting and would “continue to make unremitting efforts” for a “peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue.” But he did not directly answer a question about whether Beijing would be host.
中国在推动各方谈判方面也发挥着积极作用，在十年前举办过所谓的六方会谈。中国外交部发言人耿爽周五表示，中方欢迎本次会晤，并会“继续作出不懈努力”以“和平解决半岛核问题”。但他并未就北京是否将主持会晤的问题给出直接回答。
Geneva
日内瓦
Geneva, the capital of neutral Switzerland, has hosted high-level meetings between rivals, like between President Ronald Reagan and the Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in 1985. And Kim Jong-un would have more familiarity with the country, where he studied in the late 1990s, than most other places.
中立国瑞士的首都曾举办过敌对双方的高级别会晤，如1985年的美国总统罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)和苏联领导人米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail Gorbachev)。而金正恩曾在1990年代末留学瑞士，因此与其他地方相比，他对这个国家会更为熟悉。
Moscow
莫斯科
Like China, Russia has been an occasional destination for North Korean leaders. Mr. Kim himself has not gone as leader, though. He canceled plans to travel to Moscow in 2015 for events to mark the 70th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II. A visit to Moscow might not look good for Mr. Trump, either, given the charges that Russians tried to interfere in the 2016 election to help his campaign.
和中国一样，俄罗斯也是朝鲜领袖们偶尔会去的地方。虽然金正恩在任期内未曾到访。他曾取消2015年前往莫斯科参加二战战胜纳粹德国70周年活动的计划。鉴于俄罗斯被指试图干预2016年美国大选，帮助特朗普竞选，因此到访莫斯科对特朗普来说可能也不合适。
Stockholm
斯德哥尔摩
Sweden has long been a key intermediary between the United States and North Korea. The United States does not have an embassy in the North, and Sweden is the so-called protecting power that provides consular services for Americans, including meeting with citizens who are imprisoned there. Sweden has also been the site of talks between North Korean officials and experts from the United States, South Korea and elsewhere. And last week a Swedish newspaper, Dagens Nyheter, reported that Ri Yong-ho, the North Korean foreign minister, would visit Sweden soon, fueling speculation about a possible meeting location.
瑞典长期以来一直是美朝之间的重要中间人。美国在朝鲜没有设立大使馆，美国人的领事服务由所谓的保护国瑞典提供，包括会见被囚朝鲜的美国公民。瑞典还是朝鲜官员与美韩等国的专家谈判的地点。上周，瑞典报纸《每日新闻》(Dagens Nyheter)报道，朝鲜外相李容浩(Ri Yong Ho)将于近期访问瑞典，加深了人们对可能在此会晤的怀疑。
Ulan Bator, Mongolia
蒙古乌兰巴托
Mongolia, which shares borders with Russia and China, has pursued a policy of neutrality in recent years and has good relations with both the United States and North Korea. Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj, a former Mongolian president, tweeted in support of a meeting in Ulan Bator, saying: “Here is an offer: US President Trump and NK leader Kim meet in UB. Mongolia is the most suitable, neutral territory.”
与俄罗斯和中国接壤的蒙古近年来一直奉行中立政策，与美国和朝鲜都有着良好关系。蒙古前总统查希亚·额勒贝格道尔吉(Tsakhia Elbegdorj)在Twitter上表示支持会议在乌兰巴托举行，他说：“给个意见：美国总统特朗普和朝鲜领导人金正恩在乌兰巴托会晤。蒙古是最合适的中立领土。”