For the past couple of months, thoughtful people have been quietly worrying that the Trump administration might get us into a foreign policy crisis, maybe even a war.
过去几个月来，深思熟虑者一直暗暗担心特朗普政府可能会令我们陷入外交政策危机，甚至可能带来一场战争。
Partly this worry reflected Donald Trump’s addiction to bombast and swagger, which plays fine in Breitbart and on Fox News but doesn’t go down well with foreign governments. But it also reflected a cold view of the incentives the new administration would face: as working-class voters began to realize that candidate Trump’s promises about jobs and health care were insincere, foreign distractions would look increasingly attractive.
在一定程度上，这种担心反映出唐纳德·特朗普对于吹牛和说大话的瘾头，这种做法在布莱巴特(Breitbart)网站和福克斯新闻(Fox News)上效果颇佳，但是不怎么受外国政府欢迎。但这也反映出，关于新政府所面对的刺激，有一种冷淡的看法：工薪阶层选民开始意识到，特朗普竞选时期关于工作和医疗保健的承诺是不诚实的，因此和外国有关的转移注意力之事可能会看上去越来越有吸引力。
And while there may be an element of cynical calculation in some of the administration’s crisismongering, this is looking less and less like a political strategy and more and more like a psychological syndrome.
虽然这个政府在兜售危机时可能存在着一种自私自利的算计，但它看上去越来越不像什么政治战略，倒是越来越像一种心理综合征。
The Australian confrontation has gotten the most press, probably because it’s so weirdly gratuitous. Australia is, after all, arguably America’s most faithful friend in the whole world, a nation that has fought by our side again and again. We will, of course, have disputes, as any two nations will, but nothing that should disturb the strength of our alliance.
与澳大利亚的冲突获得了最多的新闻报道，可能是因为它显得如此怪异而没有理由。毕竟，澳大利亚可以说是美国在全世界最忠实的朋友，这个国家一次又一次地与我们并肩战斗。我们两国之间当然会有争端，任何国家之间都会有争端，但没有什么应该扰乱我们这个联盟的力量。
But this is the age of Trump: In a call with Malcolm Turnbull, Australia’s prime minister, the U.S. president boasted about his election victory and complained about an existing agreement to take some of the refugees Australia has been holding, accusing Mr. Turnbull of sending us the “next Boston bombers.” Then he abruptly ended the conversation after only 25 minutes.
但是这是特朗普的时代：在与澳大利亚总理马尔科姆·特恩布尔(Malcolm Turnbull)的通话过程中，美国总统夸耀自己在选举中的胜利，并抱怨一项现存协议，内容是接受已定居澳大利亚的难民，他指控特恩布尔要给我们送来“下一批波士顿轰炸机”。然后突然结束了这个只有25分钟的对话。
Well, at least Mr. Trump didn’t threaten to invade Australia. In his conversation with President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico, however, he did just that. According to The Associated Press, he told our neighbor’s democratically elected leader: “You have a bunch of bad hombres down there. You aren’t doing enough to stop them. I think your military is scared. Our military isn’t, so I just might send them down to take care of it.”
好吧，至少特朗普没有威胁要入侵澳大利亚。然而，在与墨西哥的恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)总统的谈话中，他这么做了。根据美联社报道，他告诉邻国这位通过民主选举上任的领导人：“你那儿有一堆坏家伙。你没有做足够的事情来阻止他们。我觉得你的军队害怕了。我们的军队可不怕，所以我可能会派他们过去管事。”
White House sources are now claiming that this threat — remember, the U.S. has in fact invaded Mexico in the past, and the Mexicans have not forgotten — was a lighthearted joke. If you believe that, I have a Mexico-paid-for border wall to sell you.
白宫的信息源现在声称这种威胁是个漫不经心的玩笑——要知道，美国过去事实上侵略过墨西哥，而墨西哥人并没有忘记。如果你相信这是玩笑，我就把墨西哥掏钱盖的边界墙卖给你。
The blowups with Mexico and Australia have overshadowed a more conventional war of words with Iran, which tested a missile on Sunday. This was definitely a provocation. But the White House warning that it was “putting Iran on notice” raises the question, notice of what? Given the way the administration has been alienating our allies, tighter sanctions aren’t going to happen. Are we ready for a war?
与墨西哥和澳大利亚的激烈争吵盖过了与伊朗的一场更传统的口头之争，伊朗在周日测试了一个导弹。这绝对是一种挑衅。但白宫只是“对伊朗提出警告”，这让人产生疑问，到底提出了什么？考虑到政府一直在疏远我们的盟国，更严厉的制裁不会发生。我们准备好进行战争了吗？
There was also a curious contrast between the response to Iran and the response to another, more serious provocation: Russia’s escalation of its proxy war in Ukraine. Senator John McCain called on the president to help Ukraine. Strangely, however, the White House said nothing at all about Russia’s actions until Nikki Haley, the United Nations ambassador, issued a condemnation late Thursday night to the Security Council. This is getting a bit obvious, isn’t it?
除了伊朗，还有另一个更严重的挑衅，特朗普政府对二者的反应形成了奇怪的对比：俄罗斯在乌克兰升级了它的代理人战争。参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)呼吁总统帮助乌克兰。然而，奇怪的是，白宫对俄罗斯的行动不置一词，直到驻联合国大使尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)周四晚上在联合国安全理事会上对此表示谴责。这有点明显，不是吗？
Oh, and one more thing: Peter Navarro, head of Mr. Trump’s new National Trade Council, accused Germany of exploiting the United States with an undervalued currency. There’s an interesting economics discussion to be had here, but government officials aren’t supposed to make that sort of accusation unless they’re prepared to fight a trade war. Are they?
哦，还有一件事：特朗普新的全国贸易委员会主席彼得·纳瓦罗(Peter Navarro)指责德国以偏低的汇率剥削美国。关于这个话题，这里有一个有趣的经济学讨论，但政府官员不应该做出这种指控，除非他们准备打一场贸易战争。他们准备好了吗？
I doubt it. In fact, this administration doesn’t seem prepared on any front. Mr. Trump’s confrontational phone calls, in particular, don’t sound like the working out of an economic or even political strategy — cunning schemers don’t waste time boasting about their election victories and whining about media reports on crowd sizes.
我对此表示怀疑。事实上，这届政府似乎在任何方面都没有准备好。特别是因为特朗普咄咄逼人的电话听上去不像是在执行什么经济，甚至是政治战略——老奸巨猾的阴谋家才不会浪费时间夸耀他们的胜利当选，或是抱怨关于就职典礼上人群规模的媒体报道。
No, what we’re hearing sounds like a man who is out of his depth and out of control, who can’t even pretend to master his feelings of personal insecurity. His first two weeks in office have been utter chaos, and things just keep getting worse — perhaps because he responds to each debacle with a desperate attempt to change the subject that only leads to a fresh debacle.
不，我们听到的声音听上去像是这样的一个人，他已经智穷计尽、失去控制，甚至已经不能假装控制自己的不安全感。他上任后的头两个星期已经完全混乱，事情还在不断变得更糟——也许是因为他对每个失败作出反应，拼命改变事态的主题，然而这只会引发新的失败。
America and the world can’t take much more of this. Think about it: If you had an employee behaving this way, you’d immediately remove him from any position of responsibility and strongly suggest that he seek counseling. And this guy is commander in chief of the world’s most powerful military.
美国和世界不能再承受这么多了。想想看：如果你的员工是这样的表现，你会立即解除他的任何职责，并强烈建议他寻求咨询。然而这个人是世界上最强大的军队的指挥官。
Thanks, Comey.
谢谢啊，科米(Comey)。