By any measure, Arsenio Hall was a Hollywood success: He had starred in popular films, packed houses as a stand-up comic and hosted a hit late-night television show bearing his name.
不论用什么标准来衡量，阿瑟尼奥·霍尔(Arsenio Hall)在好莱坞都是成功的：他主演过受欢迎的影片，他的单口喜剧表演座无虚席，他还主持过一个以自己名字命名的深夜电视节目，颇受观众欢迎。
Donald J. Trump saw it differently by the mid-2000s. In his eyes, Mr. Hall was nothing.
到了2005年前后，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)却有了不同的看法。在特朗普眼里，霍尔什么都不是。
“Dead as a doornail,” was his assessment of Mr. Hall in a previously unreleased interview from two years ago. “Dead as dog meat.”
在两年前的一次未发表的采访中，特朗普对霍尔的评价是，“死气沉沉的。和喂狗的肉没什么两样。”
Why such a harsh judgment? Because in Mr. Trump’s eyes, Mr. Hall had suffered the most grievous form of public humiliation: His celebrity had waned. His star had dimmed.
为什么做出如此刻薄的评价？因为在特朗普眼里，霍尔遭受了最严重的公开耻辱：他的名声已经衰落了。他的星光不再闪烁。
It was, in short, Mr. Trump’s worst nightmare.
简言之，那正是特朗普最糟糕的噩梦。
“Couldn’t get on television,” Mr. Trump said with disgust. “They wouldn’t even take his phone call.”
“上不了电视了，”特朗普用厌恶的口吻说。“他们甚至连他的电话都不接。”
The intense ambitions and undisciplined behaviors of Mr. Trump have confounded even those close to him, especially as his presidential campaign comes to a tumultuous end, and he confronts the possibility of the most stinging defeat of his life. But in the more than five hours of conversations — the last extensive biographical interviews Mr. Trump granted before running for president — a powerful driving force emerges: his deep-seated fear of public embarrassment.
就连那些与特朗普非常接近的人都无法理解他的勃勃野心和没有规矩的行为，尤其是在他的总统竞选走向混乱尾声、自己可能面临着遭受一生中最惨重失败的时候。在宣布参加总统竞选之前，特朗普曾最后接受过一次传记式采访，内容涉及广泛，在那次长达五个多小时的访谈中，一个有力动机浮现了出来：他对当众受窘怀有强烈的恐惧感。
The recordings reveal a man who is fixated on his own celebrity, anxious about losing his status and contemptuous of those who fall from grace. They capture the visceral pleasure he derives from fighting, his willful lack of interest in history, his reluctance to reflect on his life and his belief that most people do not deserve his respect.
那些录音揭示了这样的一个人：他对自己的名人身份异常执迷，对失去自己的地位深感焦虑，也蔑视那些倒台者。录音捕捉到的特朗普从与人争斗中获得内心的乐趣、成心对历史毫无兴趣、不愿反思自己的人生，还认为绝大多数人都不值得他尊重。
In the interviews, Mr. Trump makes clear just how difficult it is for him to imagine — let alone accept — defeat.
在采访中，特朗普清楚地表明让他想象失败有多困难，更甭说接受失败了。
“I never had a failure,” Mr. Trump said in one of the interviews, despite his repeated corporate bankruptcies and business setbacks, “because I always turned a failure into a success.”
“我从没失败过，”特朗普在一次采访中说，尽管他多次经历公司倒闭和商业挫折，“因为我总是把失败变为成功。”
The interviews were conducted in 2014 by Michael D’Antonio, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter who later wrote a biography of Mr. Trump called “The Truth About Trump.”
这些访谈录音是获得过普利策奖的记者迈克尔·丹东尼奥(Michael D'Antonio)在2014年录制的，他后来写了一本特朗普传记，书名是《关于特朗普的真相》(The Truth About Trump)。
Mr. D’Antonio now disapproves of Mr. Trump’s candidacy and gave transcripts of the interviews to Hillary Clinton’s campaign this year. After a brief meeting with a few Clinton aides, he said, he never heard back from Mrs. Clinton’s staff.
丹东尼奥现在是总统候选人特朗普的反对者，并在今年把访谈录音记录交给了希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选班子。他说，他与克林顿的几名助手有过一次短暂会面，之后，克林顿的工作人员再也没有与他联系过。
Over the past few weeks, Mr. D’Antonio gave The New York Times access to the original audio as well as transcripts of his interviews with Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump’s first wife, Ivana, and his three oldest children. The Times is using them as the basis for this article and a two-part episode of its election podcast, “The Run-Up.”
在过去几周里，丹东尼奥让《纽约时报》听了原始录音，并让时报看了他采访特朗普、特朗普的第一任妻子伊万娜(Ivana)，以及特朗普最年长三名子女的访谈录音记录。时报以这些材料为基础发了这篇文章，还为有关大选的播客“The Run-Up”制作了一个两集的节目。
Mr. Trump, in a statement on Monday night, called the recordings “Pretty old and pretty boring stuff. Hope people enjoy it.”
特朗普在周一晚上的一份声明中说，那些录音是“很老、很无聊的东西。希望人们喜欢它”。
In the interviews, which occurred in Mr. Trump’s office and apartment in Trump Tower in Manhattan, he is by turns animated and bored, boastful and stubborn when prodded toward soul-searching. “No, I don’t want to think about it,” he said when Mr. D’Antonio asked him to contemplate the meaning of his life. “I don’t like to analyze myself because I might not like what I see.”
采访是在特朗普的办公室，以及他在曼哈顿特朗普大厦的公寓中录制的，在访谈中，他时而兴致勃勃，时而极为厌倦，时而自吹自擂，但在被督促进行反思时，他则表现固执。当丹东尼奥要求他思考一下自己人生的意义时，他说，“不，我不想考虑这个问题。我不喜欢分析自己，因为我可能会不喜欢我所看到的。”
Despite his reluctance, Mr. Trump reveals himself over and over, in the stories he tells, in his wide-ranging answers to questions and at times in casual, seemingly throwaway lines.
尽管他不情愿，但特朗普在自己讲的故事中、在对问题的泛泛回答中，有时还在看似漫不经心的闲言慢语中，一而再、再而三地揭示了自己。
Who does he look up to? “I don’t have heroes,” Mr. Trump said.
他崇拜什么人？“在我心目中没有英雄，”特朗普说。
Does he examine history to better understand the present? “I don’t like talking about the past,” he said, later adding, “It’s all about the present and the future.”
他为了更好地了解当下而审视历史吗？“我不喜欢谈论过去，”他说，之后还补充说，“只关心现在和未来。”
Who earns his respect? “For the most part,” he said, “you can’t respect people because most people aren’t worthy of respect.”
谁赢得了他的尊重？他说，“在大多数情况下，你不能尊重他人，因为大多数人不值得尊重。”
His lavish lifestyle? “I could be very happy in a one-bedroom,” he said, motioning at his vast penthouse apartment. “I don’t need this — three floors.”
他奢华的生活方式？“能有个一居室我就可以很高兴了，”他说，还用手指着自己巨大的顶楼豪华公寓说，“我不需要这个三层楼的地方。”
His struggle to balance work and love? “It’s very hard for somebody to be married to me,” he said.
他在工作和爱情上寻找平衡的努力？“嫁给我的人很不容易，”他说。
But he always seems to return, in one form or another, to the theme of humiliation.
但他似乎总是以某种方式回到羞辱的话题上来。
He reserves special scorn for people who embarrass themselves in front of their peers. He tells the story of an unnamed bank president who became inebriated during an award dinner at the Waldorf Astoria hotel in Manhattan, a ritual of New York society. By the end of the night, he recalls, the man was incapable of walking and had to be carried out, to Mr. Trump’s disapproval.
对那些在地位相等的人面前让自己尴尬的人，他保留着特别的嘲讽。他讲述了一个银行总裁的故事，没给出名字。该人在曼哈顿华尔道夫酒店举行的一个颁奖晚宴上喝醉了，那是一次纽约上流社会的仪式。他回忆说，晚宴结束时，那个男子已经不能自己行走，他们只好把他抬了出去，特朗普对这种表现很不满。
DONALD TRUMP: … We all had a leg, an arm, a back, and we carried him out of the room that night, right after he made the worst speech you’ve ever heard. And I never looked at him the same way after that. ...
唐纳德·特朗普：……我们都有一条腿、一条胳膊、一个后背，我们那天晚上把他抬出了房间，就在他发表了人们听过的最糟糕的演讲之后。那以后，我再也没有用同样的眼光看过他......
I’ll never forget that in front of a room of the most important people, we had to carry him out of the room. And so things like that had an impact on me.
我永远不会忘记，在一屋子的重要人物面前，我们不得不把他抬出去。这种事情对我有很大的影响。
There is little trace of sympathy or understanding. When people lose face, Mr. Trump’s reaction is swift and unforgiving.
没有一点同情或理解。别人丢脸的时候，特朗普的反应既迅速又不肯原谅。
And when Mr. Trump feels he has been made a fool of, his response can be volcanic. Ivana Trump told Mr. D’Antonio about a Colorado ski vacation she took with Mr. Trump soon after they began dating. The future Mrs. Trump had not told her boyfriend that she was an accomplished skier. As she recalls it, Mr. Trump went down the hill first and waited for her at the bottom:
当特朗普觉得自己被别人愚弄时，他的反应可以是火山爆发式的。伊万娜·特朗普给丹东尼奥讲了一个故事，当时她和唐纳德开始约会后不久，他们在科罗拉多州滑雪度假。后来成为特朗普太太的她，当时还未曾告诉男朋友自己是一名熟练的滑雪者。如她回忆的，特朗普先滑下山坡，在底下等她：
IVANA TRUMP: So he goes and stops, and he says, “Come on, baby. Come on, baby.” I went up. I went two flips up in the air, two flips in front of him. I disappeared. Donald was so angry, he took off his skis, his ski boots, and walked up to the restaurant. ... He could not take it. He could not take it.
伊万娜·特朗普：他向下滑着，还不时停下来，他说：“来吧，宝贝。来吧，宝贝。”我一跃而起，在空中翻了两个跟头，在他面前翻了两个跟头。然后我超过了他、消失了。唐纳德气得不得了，他脱下滑雪板，脱下滑雪靴，径直朝餐厅走去......他无法接受。他无法接受。
He had been bested in public. As he stormed off the slope, leaving behind a trail of equipment, she recalled, Mr. Trump could not contain his embarrassment.
他在公共场合被人胜过。他怒气冲冲地走下山坡，把滑雪的用具摔在路上，她回忆说，特朗普无法抑制他的尴尬。
“I’m not going to do this,” she recalled him saying, “for anybody, including Ivana.”
“我不能让任何人这样对我，”她回忆他当时说，“包括伊万娜。”
Lust for Fighting
热爱争斗
On the tapes, Mr. Trump describes a passionate enjoyment of fighting, which started during his adolescence in Queens. It did not matter, he said, whether an altercation was verbal or physical. He loved it all the same.
在录音带上，特朗普描述了自己对争斗充满了激情，从在皇后区的青春期开始就是这样。他说，争斗是口头上的还是肢体上并不重要，他都很喜欢。
MR. TRUMP: I was a very rebellious kind of person. I don’t like to talk about it, actually. But I was a very rebellious person and very set in my ways.
特朗普：我是一个非常叛逆的人。实际上，我并不喜欢谈论这一点。但我就是一个非常叛逆的人，对事情非常固执。
INTERVIEWER: In eighth grade?
采访者：八年级就是这样？
MR. TRUMP: I loved to fight. I always loved to fight.
特朗普：我喜欢争斗。我总是喜欢争斗。
INTERVIEWER: Physical fights?
采访者：肢体打斗？
MR. TRUMP: Yeah, all kinds of fights, physical ...
特朗普：是的，各种争斗，肢体上的……
INTERVIEWER: Arguments?
采访者：争论？
MR. TRUMP: All types of fights. Any kind of fight, I loved it, including physical. ...
特朗普：所有类型的争斗。任何争斗，我都喜欢，包括肢体上的……
His behavior was so belligerent that his parents sent him off around age 13 to the all-boys New York Military Academy, a highly regimented school about an hour north of Manhattan. He seemed to revel in the masculine culture of confrontation there. In the interview, he sounds nostalgic for the time when roughness and physical conflict were more acceptable:
由于太过好斗，差不多13岁的时候，父母把他送到了纽约军事学院(New York Military Academy)。那是一所高度军事化管理的学校，在曼哈顿以北约一小时车程的地方。他似乎喜欢那里的男性对抗文化。在采访中，他听上去很怀念那个时代，简单粗暴和肢体冲突在那时更容易被人接受：
MR. TRUMP: I’m standing there at the military academy and this guy comes out, he’s like a bulldog, too, rough guy. He was a drill sergeant. Now they call him “Major Dobias,” but he was a sergeant. When I first knew him, he was “Sergeant Dobias,” right out of the Army.
特朗普：在军事学院的时候，有一次，我站在那里，有个家伙过来，他就像只牛头犬，粗暴的家伙。他是一个教官。现在他们管他叫“多比亚斯少校”(Major Dobias)，但当时他是一个中士。我最初认识他的时候，他是“多比亚斯中士”，刚刚从陆军里出来。
And he was a rough guy, physically rough and mentally rough. He was also my baseball coach. He said things like, “Stand up!” and I went, “Give me a [expletive] break.” And this guy came at me, you would never believe it. I mean, it was really fantastic.
他是个粗暴的家伙，肢体和精神上都是一个糙汉。他也是我的棒球教练。他说，“站起来！”我说，“你[不雅语言]得了吧。”这个人就冲我动手了。你简直不能相信，我的意思是，这真的太棒了。
INTERVIEWER: Did he rough you up?
采访者：他打你吗？
MR. TRUMP: Oh yeah, absolutely.
特朗普：是啊，肯定打了。
INTERVIEWER: Grabbed you by the shirt ...
采访者：抓住你的衬衫……
MR. TRUMP: It doesn’t matter, it was not like what happens today. And you had to learn to survive. It was tough. It wasn’t today. Those were rougher times. … These guys, you go back to some of those old drill sergeants, they can’t even understand what’s going on with this country.
特朗普：这不重要，如今不会发生那样的事情了。你必须学会生存。这很艰难。和如今不一样。那个时代更加粗犷一些……这些家伙，你去问这些教官，他们甚至不能理解这个国家正在发生什么。
He still seems to long for those older, tougher times as a presidential candidate. At a Las Vegas rally in February, as Mr. Trump scolded a protester who tried to interrupt his speech, he used strikingly similar language.
作为总统候选人，他似乎仍然对以前那种更粗犷的时代充满热望。今年2月，在拉斯维加斯的一个集会上，当特朗普斥责一个试图打断他的演讲的抗议者时，他使用了极为类似的措辞。
“I love the old days,” Mr. Trump told the crowd to loud cheers.
“我喜欢以前的日子，”特朗普告诉大声欢呼人群。
“You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this? They’d be carried out on a stretcher, folks.”
“你知道以前在这样的地方，他们会怎么样对付这样的家伙吗？他们会让他躺在担架上出去，伙计们。”
Obsession With Media
痴迷于媒体
He is intoxicated by the glow of his name in the news media, a subject he brings up repeatedly in the interviews.
他的名字在新闻媒体上的光芒令他沉醉，这是他在采访中反复提到的一个主题。
He can still recall the thrill of a newspaper mentioning his name for the first time, as a high school baseball player whose performance had clinched his team’s victory.
他还记得他的名字第一次出现在报纸上时给他带来的兴奋，当时他是高中棒球队的球手，他的表现帮助球队赢取了胜利。
MR. TRUMP: And I said, “I love it.” I loved it. It was the first time I was ever in a newspaper. I was a young kid, right? I was probably a sophomore in high school. I don’t think there’s anything wrong with that. I thought it was amazing. … It felt good.
特朗普：我说，“我喜欢这个报道。”我喜欢它。这是我第一次出现在报纸上。当时我还是小孩子，对吧？我可能是在读高二。我不认为那有什么问题。我觉得那很棒……感觉很好。
He was hooked. But it was not enough for Mr. Trump to become an object of media fascination. He took pleasure in knowing that such coverage was denied to almost everybody else.
他迷上了这种感觉。但是，对于特朗普而言，成为媒体称赞的对象是不够的。他非常高兴的一件事是，那个报道里没有出现其他人的名字。
When Mr. D’Antonio said that it was exciting for anybody to be mentioned in a newspaper, a seemingly wounded Mr. Trump interrupted to explain why his experience was special.
当丹东尼奥说，任何人被报纸提及都会觉得很兴奋，特朗普看似很受伤，他打断丹东尼奥，解释为什么他的经历很特别。
“Well, most people aren’t in print, though. Don’t forget. How many people are in print?” he asked. “Nobody’s in print.”
“但是，大多数人的名字都没上过报纸。不要忘记这一点。有多少人上了报纸？“他问。“没别人了。”
Mr. Trump refused to let the subject go, emphasizing over and over how unique it was that he had been mentioned in the newspaper.
特朗普不愿意放下这个话头，再三强调了他在报纸上被提及的独特性。
By the time he was an established businessman, Mr. Trump hired a service to compile the swelling number of references to him in the media, which he then reviewed. “There are thousands of them a day,” he told Mr. D’Antonio. “Thousands, thousands a day.”
当特朗普成为一名有地位的商人时，媒体提及他的次数也日益增加，他雇人整理了这方面的数据，然后会审阅。“每天数千次，”他告诉丹东尼奥。“每一天，都有数千次。”
He quickly figured out that media attention was free advertising for his new hotels and golf courses, a fact that led him to frequently participate in newspaper interviews and television shows.
他很快就意识到，对他的新酒店和高尔夫球场来说，媒体关注就是一种免费广告，因此他经常接受报纸采访，参加电视节目。
MR. TRUMP: I could say, “No,” and then I could advertise a project that I’m doing, like Doral or something, and spend a half a million dollars on it or a million dollars, or I can do the show and spend nothing and be on for a lot longer. Do you understand what I meant? So I’ve always felt it was a positive thing.
特朗普：我可以说不，然后我可以花上50万或100万美元，给我正在做的一个项目打广告，比如Doral等项目，或者我也可以参加节目，不花一分钱，而且效果持续得远远更久。你明白我的意思吗？所以我一直觉得这是好事情。
No matter the newspaper, magazine or show, Mr. Trump was always keeping score — of how positive the coverage was and how often he was featured, just as he does today.
无论报纸、杂志还是电视节目，特朗普总是会统计数据——覆盖面有多大，他上媒体有多频繁，就像他如今一样。
He recounted his experience as a guest on Barbara Walters’s ABC special “10 Most Fascinating People,” boasting that he was on the show twice.
他讲述自己作为嘉宾参加了芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)在ABC的特别节目《十大魅力人物》(10 Most Fascinating People)，强调他参加过两次。
Just one other person had earned that distinction, Mr. Trump grudgingly acknowledged: Hillary Clinton. (In fact, Mrs. Clinton had made the list four times.)
另外只有一个人参加过一次以上，特朗普勉强承认，那就是希拉里·克林顿。（事实上克林顿参加过四次。）
Fear of Being Forgotten
害怕被人淡忘
Ultimately, Mr. Trump fears — more than anything else — being ignored, overlooked or irrelevant.
最终来说，特朗普最为害怕的事情就是被忽视，被小看，或变得无足轻重。
That’s how he saw Arsenio Hall in the 2000s, as forgotten and ungrateful for his time on “The Celebrity Apprentice,” Mr. Trump’s reality television competition, which Mr. Hall won in 2012.
这就是他在2000年代对阿瑟尼奥·霍尔的看法：被人遗忘，对他能上特朗普的真人秀比赛《名人学徒》(The Celebrity Apprentice)缺乏感激之情。霍尔在2012年赢得了这个电视比赛。
During his final interview with Mr. D’Antonio, as their relationship had warmed and deepened, Mr. Trump turned philosophical. He recalled a favorite song, performed by Peggy Lee, “Is That All There Is?” — a poignant ballad about unfulfilled dreams and dissatisfaction with life.
在接受丹东尼奥的最后一次采访的时候，两人的关系更亲切和深厚了，特朗普的话开始深沉起来。他谈到了一首他很喜欢的歌曲，佩姬·李(Peggy Lee)演唱的《这就是全部了吗？》(Is That All There Is?)——一首令人心酸的歌谣，讲述未竟的理想和失意。
MR. TRUMP: It’s a great song because I’ve had these tremendous successes and then I’m off to the next one. Because, it’s like, “Oh, is that all there is?” That’s a great song actually, that’s a very interesting song, especially sung by her, because she had such a troubled life.
特朗普：这是一首好歌，因为我获得过巨大的成功，然后去寻找下一个成功。它让人觉得，“哦，这就是全部了吗？”这真是首好歌，一首非常有趣的歌，特别是由她唱出来，因为她的生活很坎坷。
But he quickly retreats from the moment, declining Mr. D’Antonio’s invitation to further explain how the song makes him feel about himself, saying he might not like what he discovers.
但他很快就离开了这个话题，当丹东尼奥请他进一步解释这首歌让他对自己产生什么感觉时，他拒绝了，说他可能不会喜欢自己发现的东西。
Of this, however, Mr. Trump is certain: He needs the world’s attention and its embrace, a life force that has sustained him for decades.
然而，特朗普很肯定的一件事是：他需要世界的关注和拥抱，这是几十年来给他提供生命养分的力量。
He recalled the feeling of walking into a giant room and watching as the crowd surrounded him, as if he were a magnet attracting everything around him.
他回忆自己走进一个巨大的房间，看着人群簇拥着他，自己好像是一块磁铁，吸引着周围的一切的感觉。
Mr. D’Antonio asked him when that first started. “Long time ago,” Mr. Trump replied. “It’s always been that way.”
丹东尼奥问他，这种感觉是什么时候开始。“很久以前，”特朗普回答。“我总是有这样的感觉。”
Did it ever unnerve him, the author wondered.
丹东尼奥想知道，这种感觉是否曾经让他不安。
“No,” Mr. Trump said. “I think what would unnerve me is if it didn’t happen.”
“不，”特朗普说。“我想，如果没有那种感觉，我才会不安。”