KIEV, Ukraine — On a leafy side street off Independence Square in Kiev is an office used for years by Donald Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, when he consulted for Ukraine’s ruling political party. His furniture and personal items were still there as recently as May.
乌克兰基辅——在基辅独立广场旁一条郁郁葱葱的小路上，坐落着一间办公室，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的竞选经理保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)曾在这里为乌克兰执政党提供咨询服务长达数年。直到今年5月，他的家具和一些个人物品还留在那里。
And Manafort’s presence remains elsewhere here in the capital, where government investigators examining secret records have found his name, as well as companies he sought business with, as they try to untangle a corrupt network they say was used to loot Ukrainian assets and influence elections during the administration of Manafort’s main client, former President Viktor F. Yanukovych.
马纳福特的踪迹还出现在这座都城的其他地方。在试图理清一个腐败网络的过程中，查看秘密文档的政府调查人员发现了他的名字，以及与他有业务往来的多家公司。调查人员表示，在马纳福特的重要客户——乌克兰前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)——当政期间，该网络被用来劫掠乌克兰资产，影响选举结果。
Handwritten ledgers show $12.7 million in undisclosed cash payments designated for Manafort from Yanukovych’s pro-Russian political party from 2007 to 2012, according to Ukraine’s newly formed National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Investigators assert that the disbursements were part of an illegal off-the-books system whose recipients also included election officials.
乌克兰新近成立的国家反贪局(National Anti-Corruption Bureau)称，有手写的分类账簿显示，2007年至2012年间，有1270万美元未披露资金由亚努科维奇领导的亲俄罗斯政党指定支付给马纳福特。调查人员断言，这些支出属于一个非法账外体系的一部分，从中接收资金的还包括选举官员。
In addition, criminal prosecutors are investigating a group of offshore shell companies that helped members of Yanukovych’s inner circle finance their lavish lifestyles, including a palatial presidential residence with a private zoo, golf course and tennis court. Among the hundreds of murky transactions these companies engaged in was an $18 million deal to sell Ukrainian cable television assets to a partnership put together by Manafort and a Russian oligarch, Oleg Deripaska, a close ally of President Vladimir V. Putin.
此外，刑事检察部门也在调查一批离岸壳公司。这些公司为亚努科维奇核心集团的成员提供资助，使他们得以过上奢华的生活，其中包括一座带私人动物园、高尔夫球场和网球场的富丽堂皇的总统官邸。在这些公司进行的数百桩可疑交易中，有一项是以1800万美元的价格将乌克兰的有线电视资产卖给由马纳福特和俄罗斯寡头奥列格·杰里帕斯卡(Oleg Deripaska)一起组建的合伙企业。杰里帕斯卡是俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的亲密盟友。
Manafort’s involvement with moneyed interests in Russia and Ukraine had previously come to light. But as American relationships there become a rising issue in the presidential campaign — from Trump’s favorable statements about Putin and his annexation of Crimea to the suspected Russian hacking of Democrats’ emails — an examination of Manafort’s activities offers new details of how he mixed politics and business out of public view and benefited from powerful interests now under scrutiny by the new government in Kiev.
马纳福特与俄罗斯和乌克兰富人利益集团的往来之前就曾曝光。但随着美国与这两个国家的关系在这届总统大选中成为越来越受关注的议题——不管是特朗普发表有关普京及其吞并克里米亚半岛举动的支持言论，还是俄罗斯涉嫌网络窃取民主党邮件——针对马纳福特活动的探查可以提供一些新的细节，有助于人们了解他如何在公众视线之外把政治和生意结合在一起，如何从强大的利益集团获利。这些利益集团如今正在遭到基辅新政府的调查。
Anti-corruption officials there say the payments earmarked for Manafort, previously unreported, are a focus of their investigation, though they have yet to determine if he actually received the cash. While Manafort is not a target in the separate inquiry of offshore activities, prosecutors say he must have realized the implications of his financial dealings.
基辅的反腐官员表示，之前不曾披露的指定支付给马纳福特的资金是他们调查的重点，不过他们还不确定他是否真的接收了这笔资金。尽管马纳福特不是另一项离岸活动调查的目标，但检方表示，他肯定意识到了自己的金融交易会带来什么后果。
“He understood what was happening in Ukraine,” said Vitaliy Kasko, a former senior official with the general prosecutor’s office in Kiev. “It would have to be clear to any reasonable person that the Yanukovych clan, when it came to power, was engaged in corruption.”
“他知道乌克兰当时在经历什么，”曾在基辅总检察长办公室担任高级官员的维塔利·卡斯科(Vitaliy Kasko)说。“任何一个有理智的人都会明白，亚努科维奇集团在执政期间参与了腐败行为。”
Kasko added, “It’s impossible to imagine a person would look at this and think, ‘Everything is all right.'”
卡斯科还表示，“无法想象一个人看到这些后还会觉得‘一切正常’。”
Manafort did not respond to interview requests or written questions from The New York Times. But his lawyer, Richard A. Hibey, said Manafort had not received “any such cash payments” described by the anti-corruption officials.
马纳福特没有回应时报的采访请求，也没有回答时报发出的书面问题。但他的律师理查德·A·希贝(Richard A. Hibey)表示，马纳福特不曾接收乌克兰反腐官员所说的“任何此类现金支付”。
Hibey also disputed Kasko’s suggestion that Manafort might have countenanced corruption or been involved with people who took part in illegal activities.
希贝也不认同卡斯科的说法，即马纳福特或许纵容了腐败，或与从事非法活动的人有关联。
“These are suspicions, and probably heavily politically tinged ones,” said Hibey, a member of the Washington law firm Miller & Chevalier. “It is difficult to respect any kind of allegation of the sort being made here to smear someone when there is no proof and we deny there ever could be such proof.”
“这些只是猜测，而且很可能是有浓厚政治色彩的猜测，”来自华盛顿米勒-希瓦利埃律师事务所(Miller & Chevalier)的希贝说。“很难尊重在没有证据的情况下为抹黑别人而提出的任何指控，我们也不认为存在此类证据。”