WASHINGTON — On his last foreign trip while in office, President Obama will have a lot of explaining to do.
华盛顿——在奥巴马总统任期内的最后一次外交出访期间，他有大量的解释工作要做。
For the last year, almost as soon as the reporters left and the doors closed, world leaders had asked Mr. Obama whether Donald J. Trump had a real shot at winning the presidency.
在过去的一年里，几乎每当记者刚离去、房门关上之后，世界领导人都问过奥巴马，唐纳德·J·特朗普是否真有机会当选总统。
Mr. Obama’s answer was always emphatic: Not a chance.
奥巴马的回答总是断然的：一点也不可能。
On Monday evening, the president will begin a journey that will take him to Greece, Germany and Peru. At every stop, Mr. Obama will be asked how he could have been so wrong.
周一晚，奥巴马总统将开始一次前往希腊、德国和秘鲁的行程。每到一站，奥巴马都将遇到这个问题：他怎么会如此地大错特错。
Intended as a valedictory tour, the trip will now be shadowed by the uncertainty that Mr. Trump’s election has cast over Mr. Obama’s most cherished foreign policy priorities. Among them are an unquestioned commitment to NATO, freer trade around the world, the nuclear deal with Iran, the Paris climate accord, a hard line on Russian meddling and a tolerant attitude toward refugees.
这次出访原来是一次告别行，现在将受到不确定未来的影响，特朗普的当选已经给奥巴马最珍贵的外交政策重点蒙上阴影。这些重点包括对北约毋庸置疑的承诺，让世界贸易更自由，与伊朗达成的核协议，巴黎气候协议，对俄罗斯干预的强硬路线，以及对难民的宽容态度。
Mr. Trump has promised to rethink or simply reject these hard-won and, in some cases, decades-old covenants.
特朗普已承诺要重新考虑或简直就拒绝这些来之不易的、有的已经执行了几十年的公约。
Nonetheless, Mr. Obama intends to exhort his counterparts to hold fast even if the United States’ commitment falters. But amid a tide of populist right-wing fury — the same forces that helped sweep away Hillary Clinton’s hopes — Mr. Obama’s final plea to world leaders is likely to be greeted with polite ambivalence. Some have taken political risks under the assumption that the American people would support freer trade and carbon emission reductions.
尽管如此，奥巴马仍打算敦促其他国家的领导人坚持下去，即使美国的承诺有所动摇。但是，在民粹主义的右翼愤怒浪潮中——同样的力量促使了希拉里·克林顿希望的破灭，世界领导人对奥巴马的最后呼吁很可能会作出礼貌的矛盾反应。有些领导人曾假设，美国人民会支持更自由的贸易、支持减少碳排放，为此他们冒下了政治风险。
In Europe, Mr. Obama will again talk about democracy. In the 71 years since the defeat of fascism there, leaders who pledged allegiance to democratic ideals have maintained membership in NATO and other Western organizations, even if they have sometimes failed to fully pay their dues. But Mr. Trump has made clear that he intends to view NATO as he does his own Mar-a-Lago Club: Stiff the check and you lose member privileges.
奥巴马将在欧洲再次谈论民主制度。在欧洲打败了法西斯主义之后的71年里，那些承诺忠于民主理想的领导人一直维持着北约和其他西方组织，尽管他们有时没有缴纳足额的费用。但特朗普已经明确表示，他打算用经营他的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)俱乐部的方式看待北约：不交钱，你将失去成员的特权。
The trip’s final stop, in Lima, Peru, at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, will probably be the most difficult. Many of the leaders Mr. Obama will meet with there spent considerable time and political capital over the past two years negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade pact that now has no chance of going into effect.
此次行程的最后一站是出席在秘鲁利马举行的亚太经济合作组织首脑会议，这可能是最困难的一站。将在那里与奥巴马见面的许多领导人在过去两年里在谈判跨太平洋伙伴关系上花了大量的时间和政治资本，而这个贸易协定目前已没有生效的机会。
Mr. Obama is expected to have a bilateral meeting in Lima with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, with whom Mr. Obama struck a landmark climate agreement in 2014 that set the stage for the Paris accord a year later.
奥巴马预计将在利马与中国国家主席习近平举行一次双边会谈，奥巴马曾与习近平在2014年达成了一项具有里程碑意义的气候协议，为一年后的巴黎协定奠定了基础。
The Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, will also be there, just after meeting with Mr. Trump in the United States. Mr. Trump has denounced Japan for decades as a trade and military freeloader.
日本首相安倍晋三在美国与特朗普会面后，也将前往利马。特朗普几十年来一直指责日本在贸易和军事上占便宜。
Originally, the trip to Lima was the only scheduled stop, but Mr. Obama added Athens, where he plans to land on Tuesday morning, because he has never been there and wanted to see the Parthenon. He decided to deliver in the cradle of democracy a speech on inclusion and global integration.
最初的行程上只有利马是预先安排的，但奥巴马添加了雅典，因为他从未去过那里，他想看看帕特农神庙。他计划于周二上午抵达。奥巴马决定要在这个民主的摇篮发表一个有关包容性和全球一体化的讲演。
He tacked on Berlin because he wanted to bid farewell to the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, his closest foreign partner, and meet with the leaders of Britain, France and Italy to encourage their efforts to maintain sanctions on Russia and bolster the fight against the Islamic State. He is scheduled to arrive on Wednesday night.
他还在行程上加了柏林，因为他想与他最亲密的外国搭档德、国总理安吉拉·默克尔道别，并在那里会见英国、法国和意大利的领导人，鼓励他们维持对俄罗斯制裁的努力，并加强与伊斯兰国的斗争。他定于周三晚抵达柏林。
“I’m not sure the visits, while well intended, will now do anything to improve the relationships in the wake of Trump’s win,” Heather A. Conley of the Center for Strategic and International Studies said in an interview. “I think they will just sow more doubts.”
战略与国际研究中心的希瑟·A·康利(Heather A. Conley)在接受采访时说：“这些访问的意图虽然很好，但我不能确定访问在目前能为特朗普当选之后的改善关系做多少事情。我觉得访问只会播种下更多的怀疑。”
The Athens speech had not been written before Tuesday’s election, said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser who will accompany the president. But plans for it have changed, Mr. Rhodes added.
将陪同总统出行的国家安全副顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说，周二大选之前还没有写雅典讲演。罗兹补充说，但计划已经变了。
“Look, we certainly expect that the election will be the primary topic on people’s minds everywhere we go,” Mr. Rhodes told reporters Friday in a conference call.
“听我说，我们当然预期，这次大选将是我们所到之处人们脑海里的主要话题，”罗兹周五在一次电话会议上对记者说。
Mr. Obama met with Mr. Trump for 90 minutes on Thursday in the Oval Office. But Mr. Rhodes would not say whether Mr. Obama intended to brief the world leaders on what he had learned from Mr. Trump.
奥巴马上周四花了90分钟在椭圆形办公室与特朗普见面。但罗兹不愿说奥巴马是否打算通报世界领导人自己从特朗普那里了解到的东西。
“I think President Obama will be speaking for himself and for the office of the presidency,” Mr. Rhodes said. “I do think he can convey, obviously, that the United States of America fulfills its commitments through democratic transitions and through different administrations.”
“我觉得奥巴马总统将代表自己、代表总统办公室讲话，”罗兹说。“我认为他显然不能传递美利坚合众国在民主的权力交接过程中、在不同的政府之下将履行其承诺的信息。”
Europe has long been friendly to Mr. Obama; he represented a break from his immediate predecessor, George W. Bush, whose unilateralism and decision to invade Iraq were deeply unpopular there. But Mr. Trump’s election has led to a broad reassessment.
欧洲一直对奥巴马很友好；他代表了与自己的直接前任乔治·W·布什的断绝，布什的单边主义和入侵伊拉克的决定在欧洲非常不受欢迎。但特朗普的当选已经引起了一次对美国的广泛重新评估。
Der Spiegel, the German newsmagazine, published a cover last week with a cartoon of a comet in the shape of Mr. Trump’s head hurtling toward Earth. The headline read, “The end of the world (as we know it).”
德国新闻杂志《明镜周刊》上周发表的封面是一幅漫画，画面上，一颗形状类似特朗普的头的彗星朝着地球飞驰而来。大标题是“（我们所知道的）世界的末日”。
“Many Germans are deeply disillusioned,” said Holger Stark, a Der Spiegel correspondent. “The overwhelming feeling is that the U.S. has now lost its role as a beacon and messenger of the free world.”
“许多德国人都深感大失所望，”《明镜周刊》记者霍尔格·斯塔克说。“有一种莫大的失落感，那就是美国现在已经失去了作为自由世界的灯塔和信使的作用。”
Europe has its own set of populist right-wing movements that have been enlivened by slow economic growth and increasing nativism. Britain’s vote in June to leave the European Union had many parallels with Mr. Trump’s victory. And elections are on the horizon in Italy, France and Germany.
欧洲有自己的民粹主义右翼运动党派，由于经济增长缓慢和本土主义情绪的增长，这些党派已活跃起来。英国今年6月脱离欧盟的投票与特朗普的当选有很多相似之处。意大利、法国和德国也都将面临选举。
Facing such uncertainties, the world leaders may not be receptive to some of Mr. Obama’s urgings, including one for debt relief for Greece, something that would infuriate right-wing populists even more.
面对这些不确定性，世界领导人可能不会愿意倾听奥巴马的一些呼吁，包括减免希腊债务的呼吁，那会进一步激怒右翼民粹主义者。
“The president’s challenge is to offer reassurance about the enduring commitment of the United States for engagement in the region, notwithstanding that the president-elect has offered a different vision,” said Meredith Miller, who was a national security aide to Mr. Bush. “It won’t be easy.”
曾在布什手下担任国家安全助理的梅雷迪思·米勒(Meredith Miller)说：“现任总统面临的挑战是，尽管当选总统已经提出了一个不同的愿景，他仍要保证美国与该地区保持密切关系的持久承诺。这不是件容易的事情。”