Donald John Trump defied the skeptics who said he would never run, and the political veterans who scoffed at his slapdash campaign.
唐纳德·约翰·特朗普(Donald John Trump)无视了对他持怀疑态度、说他永远不会参选的人，并且挑战了那些嘲笑其草率的竞选活动的资深政界人士。
He attacked the norms of American politics, singling out groups for derision on the basis of race and religion and attacking the legitimacy of the political process.
他攻击了美国的政治规范，根据种族和宗教挑出特定的团体加以嘲弄，并抨击了相关政治程序的合法性。
He ignored conventions of common decency, employing casual vulgarity and raining personal humiliation on his political opponents and critics in the media.
他不顾基本礼仪的惯例，随意使用粗俗的语言，并在媒体上连珠炮似的羞辱政敌和批评他的人。
And in the ultimate act of defiance, Trump emerged victorious, summoning a tidal wave of support from less educated whites displaced by changes in the economy and deeply resistant to the country’s shifting cultural and racial tones. In his triumph, Trump has delivered perhaps the greatest shock to the American political system in modern times and opened the door to an era of extraordinary political uncertainty at home and around the globe.
但他通过获胜，让自己的违抗行为达到极致。他得到了受教育程度较低的白人如潮的支持，这个群体因经济变革而失去了自己的位置，强烈反对美国不断变化的文化和种族基调。特朗普用自己的胜利给美国的政治制度带来了或许是现代历史上最大的冲击，向一个美国国内和全球政治极其不稳定的时代开启了大门。
The slashing, freewheeling campaign that took him to the doorstep of the White House replicated a familiar pattern from Trump’s life, but on an Olympian scale.
把他送到白宫门口的这场激烈、肆意的竞选，复制了其生命中的常见模式，不过规模浩大。
The son of a wealthy real estate developer in Queens, Trump, 70, spent decades pursuing social acceptance in upscale Manhattan and seeking, at times desperately, to persuade the wider world to see him as a great man of affairs. But Trump was often met with scoffing disdain by wealthy elites and mainstream civic leaders, culminating in a mortifying roast by President Barack Obama at the White House Correspondents Dinner in 2011.
身为皇后区一个富裕的房地产开发商的儿子，现年70岁的特朗普用了几十年时间寻求获得曼哈顿上流社会的认可，试图——有时候拼了命地——说服更广阔的世界把他看作是一个举足轻重的伟大人物。但他常常受到富裕的精英和主流的民间领袖带有嘲笑意味的鄙视。这种情况在贝拉克·奥巴马总统2011年的白宫记者晚宴(White House Correspondents Dinner)上的一场令人窘迫的言语鞭挞中达到高潮。
So Trump fashioned himself instead as a proudly garish champion of the common man — a person of unsophisticated tastes but distinctive popular appeal — and acted the part in extravagant fashion, first in the New York tabloids and then on national television. He became a pundit of sorts, fulminating against crime in New York City and international trade and Obama’s legitimacy as president, often in racially incendiary terms.
于是，特朗普转而把自己塑造成了一个艳俗却洋洋自得的平民卫士——一个品味简单但却有着与众不同的大众魅力的人，并用夸张的方式扮演这一角色，先是在纽约的各种小报上，然后是在全国性的电视节目上。他成了各方各面的行家，强烈抗议纽约市的犯罪和国际贸易，以及奥巴马担任总统的合法性。他使用的常常是煽动种族情绪的语言。
His candidacy unfolded in much the same way: as the rampage of an aggrieved outsider, aligned more with the cultural sensibilities of blue-collar whites than with his peers in society.
他的竞选之路也以大致相同的方式展开：以一个愤愤不平的局外人的身份横冲直撞，就文化而言，更多地与蓝领白人，而不是与其社会地位相当者的情感保持一致。
On the first day of his run — June 16, 2015 — Trump drew a direct parallel between his determined quest for success in New York and his entry into the political arena.
竞选的第一天——2015年6月16日——特朗普就在自己决心在纽约取得成功和进军政界之间找到了显而易见的相似点。
Addressing a crowd made up largely of reporters in the atrium of Trump Tower, Trump noted that political seers had predicted, “He’ll never run.” Seconds later, he mused that his father, Fred Trump, had urged him never to compete in “the big leagues” of Manhattan.
在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的大厅里，特朗普在面向主要由记者组成的人群发表讲话时指出，政治预测者曾预言，“他永远不会参选。”过了几秒钟，他若有所思地说，他的父亲弗雷德·特朗普(Fred Trump)让他永远不要在曼哈顿的“大联盟”中竞争。
“'We don’t know anything about that. Don’t do it,'” Trump quoted his father as saying. “I said, ‘I’ve got to go into Manhattan. I’ve got to build those big buildings. I’ve got to do it, Dad. I’ve got to do it.'”
“‘我们对它一无所知。不要那么做，’”，特朗普引用他父亲的话说。“我说，‘我必须要进入曼哈顿。我要盖大楼。我必须这么做，爸爸。我必须这么做。’”
Powered by that same grasping ambition, Trump’s candidacy was marked by countless missteps and grievous errors, from the crude and meandering speeches he delivered daily, to the allegations of sexual assault that appeared to cripple him in the final weeks of the race. No other presidential candidate in memory has given offense so freely and been so battered by scandal, and lived to fight on and win.
在同样炙烈的野心的驱动下，特朗普的竞选过程出现了不计其数的失策和极其严重的错误，从他每天发表的粗鲁、不着边际的演讲，到竞选最后几周似乎要打垮他的性骚扰指控。记忆中没有其他哪位总统候选人这么随意地冒犯他人，因丑闻而受到这么沉重的打击，但仍继续战斗并最终获胜。
Amid all his innumerable blunders, however, Trump got one or two things right that mattered more than all the rest. On a visceral level, he grasped dynamics that the political leadership of both parties missed or ignored — most of all, the raw frustration of blue-collar and middle-class white voters who rallied to his candidacy with decisive force.
然而，在所有数不清的重大错误中，特朗普在一两件事上做对了，它们比其他所有事都更重要。他本能地掌握了两个政党的政治领导都遗漏或忽视了的动态，尤其是团结一致支持其候选人身份的蓝领和中产阶级白人选民那种真切的挫败感。他们带来了决定性的力量。
Trump rallied them less with policy promises than with gut-level pronouncements — against foreign trade, foreign wars and foreign workers. He left his Republican primary opponents agog at his dismissals of mainstream policy, and exposed a yawning breach between the program of tax cuts and fiscal austerity favored by traditional conservatives, and the preoccupations of the party’s rank and file.
特朗普更多的是用反对对外贸易、海外战争和外国员工的本能声明，而不是政策承诺把他们召集在了一起。他让自己在共和党内部初选的主要对手兴奋地期待他废除主流政策，并暴露出了减税计划与传统的保守派财政紧缩之间日益扩大的分歧，以及党内普通成员关注的问题。
Ridiculed by critics on the right and left, shunned by the most respected figures in American politics, including every living former president, Trump equated his own outcast status with the resentments of the white class.
特朗普受到了右翼和左翼批评人士的嘲弄，美国政坛最受敬重的人对他避之不及，这包括所有在世的前总统。他将自己局外人的境遇等同于白人阶级的怨恨。
Even the invective and incivility that appalled the traditional guardians of political discourse seemed only to forge a tighter bond between Trump and his inflamed following. He dismissed social norms as mere “political correctness,” mocking the physical appearance of an opponent’s wife, savaging Hillary Clinton’s marriage and wielding stereotypes of racial minorities — all to the applause of his base.
即便是令政治话语的传统卫士震惊的破口大骂和粗鲁言语，似乎也只是在特朗普和愤怒的支持者之间形成了一条更紧密的纽带。他对社会准则不屑一顾，称其仅仅是“政治正确”，嘲笑一名对手的妻子的外表、猛烈抨击希拉里·克林顿的婚姻并宣扬对少数族群的成见——这一切都赢得了他的主要支持者的掌声。
In sum, Trump offered himself to the country as a tribune of white populist rage, and pledged at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland to defend “the laid-off factory workers and the communities crushed by our horrible and unfair trade deals.”
总而言之，特朗普在全国民众面前把自己塑造成了白人民粹主义愤怒的引领者的形象，并在克利夫兰的共和党全国大会上承诺保护“下岗的工厂工人和被我们可怕、不公平的贸易协议压榨的群体”。
“These are the forgotten men and women of our country,” Trump said. “People who work hard but no longer have a voice.”
“这些是我们国家被遗忘的男女同胞，”特朗普说。“他们努力工作，却不再能发声。”
He pledged: “I am your voice.”
他承诺：“我就是你们的声音。”
The message resonated especially in the Midwest, where a stunning victory in Ohio helped give Trump the Electoral College votes he needed to win. But his ultimate triumph was driven less by region than by race and class. His winning coalition consisted of restive whites and scarcely anyone else.
这句话引起了共鸣，特别是在中西部。正是在中西部的俄亥俄州取得的那场令人震惊的胜利，帮助特朗普获得了赢得大选所需的选举人票。但推动他最终获胜的，更多的是种族和阶级，而不是地区因素。他领导的获胜联盟是由躁动不安的白人组成的，几乎没有其他人。
Even as he began to campaign in the early presidential primary states, blasting Mexican migrants in acid language and demanding a shutdown of Muslim immigration into the United States, Trump never entirely shed his image as a boastful but ultimately benign showman.
即便是一开始在较早举行初选的州竞选，用尖酸的语言斥责墨西哥移民并要求停止允许穆斯林移民美国时，特朗普也从未完全脱去自己是一个喜欢吹嘘，但在根本上仍颇为良善的表演者的形象。
Republicans of august political lineage, like Jeb Bush, derided him as “an entertainer,” and trusted, in the face of mounting evidence to the contrary, that voters would discard him as such in the end.
政治血统高贵的共和党人，如杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)，嘲笑他是“一个艺人”，并在越来越多的相反证据面前相信选民最终也会这样抛弃他。
Democrats, too, who viewed Trump as plainly unelectable from the start, acknowledged at times that they might have been wrong to sneer at him early on.
从一开始就认为特朗普明显不会当选的民主党人有时候也承认，他们从早期就嘲笑他的做法可能是错误的。
Hillary Clinton, appearing on NBC’s “Late Night with Seth Myers” last winter, noted that Trump had initially provoked “hysterical laughter,” before his call for a crackdown on Muslims.
去年冬天现身NBC的《赛斯·迈尔斯深夜秀》（Late Night with Seth Myers，中国粉丝昵称赛斯·迈尔斯为“赛金花”——译注）时，希拉里·克林顿指出，特朗普一开始就引起了“狂笑”。那时，他还未呼吁打压穆斯林。
“I no longer think he’s funny,” Clinton said.
“我不再觉得他好笑了，”克林顿说。