President Trump is scary in many ways, but perhaps the most frightening nightmare is of him blundering into a new Korean war.
特朗普总统在许多方面都很可怕，但或许最可怕的噩梦就是他冒失地投入到了一场新的朝鲜战争中。
It would begin because the present approach of leaning on China to pressure North Korea will likely fail. Trump will grow angry at public snickering at the emptiness of his threats.
战争开始可能是因为，目前依靠中国向朝鲜施压的做法很可能失败。一旦公众嘲笑他的威胁有多么空洞，特朗普会非常生气。
At some point, U.S. intelligence will see a North Korean missile prepared for a test launch — and it may then be very tempting for a deeply frustrated rogue president to show his muscle. Foreign Affairs describes just such a scenario in an excellent new essay by Philip Gordon imagining how Trump might drift into war by accident:
在某个时刻，美国情报部门会发现朝鲜的导弹正准备进行试射——这在一个极端不满、失控的总统看来，也许是个展示武力的好机会。菲利普·戈登(Philip Gordon)最近在《外交》(Foreign Affairs)上的一篇精彩文章描述了这样一个场景，想象特朗普会怎样不知不觉地陷入战争：
“He could do nothing, but that would mean losing face and emboldening North Korea. Or he could destroy the test missile on its launchpad with a barrage of cruise missiles, blocking Pyongyang’s path to a nuclear deterrent, enforcing his red line, and sending a clear message to the rest of the world.”
“他可以什么都不做，但这意味着没面子，给朝鲜壮胆。他也可以用一连串巡航导弹把测试导弹摧毁在发射台上，阻挡平壤的核威慑之路，捍卫他的红线，向世界其他地方发出一个明确的信息。”
Alas, no one has ever made money betting on North Korean restraint, and the country might respond by firing artillery at Seoul, a metropolitan area of 25 million people.
唉，没有人会下注赌朝鲜能够保持克制，而且这个国家的反应，可能会是炮击首尔这个有2500万人口的大都会。
The upshot of a war would be that North Korea’s regime would be destroyed, but the country has the world’s fourth-largest army (soldiers are drafted for up to 12 years) with 21,000 artillery pieces, many of them aimed at Seoul. It also has thousands of tons of chemical weapons, and missiles that can reach Tokyo.
战争的结果可能是朝鲜政权被摧毁，但该国军队规模排名世界第四（兵役可长达12年），拥有2.1万门火炮（其中许多是对准首尔的），还有数千吨的化学武器和可以远及东京的导弹。
Gen. Gary Luck, a former commander of American forces in South Korea, estimates that a new Korean war could cause one million casualties and $1 trillion in damage.
据驻韩美军前指挥官加里·拉克(Gary Luck)将军估计，新的朝鲜战争可能造成100万人伤亡和一万亿美元的损失。
Kurt Campbell, a former assistant secretary of state for East Asia and now chairman of the Asia Group in Washington, warns, “I do not believe there is any plausible military action that does not bring with it a possibility of a catastrophic conflict.”
前东亚事务助理国务卿，现于华盛顿任亚洲集团(Asia Group)主席的库特·坎贝尔(Kurt Campbell)警告说：“我认为任何可行的军事行动都有带来灾难性冲突的可能性。”
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis knows all this, and he and other grown-ups in the Trump administration would resist any call for a pre-emptive strike. Concern about the North Korean response is what prevented Richard Nixon from a military strike in 1969 when the North shot down a U.S. plane, killing all 31 Americans on board. And it’s what has prevented presidents since from striking North Korea as it has crossed one red line after another, from counterfeiting U.S. hundred-dollar bills to expanding its nuclear program.
国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)清楚所有这一切，他和特朗普政府的其他成年人也会反对任何关于先发制人打击的呼吁。1969年，朝鲜击落了一架美国飞机，造成机上全部31名美国人丧生，由于担心朝鲜的反应，理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)放弃了军事打击。自那以后，美国总统都因为这种顾虑，不考虑打击朝鲜，即便朝鲜一条接一条地跨越红线，从伪造一百美元钞票到扩大其核计划。
Yet I’m worried because the existing policy inherited from Barack Obama is running out of time, because all U.S. and South Korean policies toward North Korea have pretty much failed over the years, and because Trump seems temperamentally inclined to fire missiles.
但是我很担心，因为从贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)那里继承下来的现有政策已经过期了；因为美国和韩国对朝鲜的政策多年来一直都失败了；因为特朗普似乎从性格上来说倾向于发射导弹。
When Vice President Mike Pence says of North Korea, “The era of strategic patience is over,” he has a point: Patience has failed. North Korea is the strangest place I’ve visited, but it has made progress as a military threat: When I started covering North Korea in the 1980s, it had zero nuclear weapons. It now has about 20 and is steadily churning out more.
副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)对朝鲜说：“战略忍耐的时代已经结束了”，他有一点是对的：忍耐已经失败了。朝鲜是我去过的最奇怪的地方，但它已经发展为一个军事威胁：当我在1980年代开始报道朝鲜时，它完全没有核武器，现在大约有20个，而且正在稳步制造出更多。
Worse, North Korea is expected in the next few years to develop the capacity to attach a nuclear warhead to an intercontinental missile that could devastate Los Angeles. U.S. “left of launch” cyberwarfare may slow North Korean efforts, but the threat still looms.
更糟糕的是，朝鲜预计在未来几年内将有能力将核弹头装载到可远及洛杉矶的洲际导弹上。美国“主动抑制发射”(left of launch)的网络战可能会减缓朝鲜的努力，但威胁依然迫在眉睫。
If a military strike is unthinkable, and so is doing nothing, what about Trump’s plan of nudging China to apply pressure to North Korea?
如果军事打击是不可想象的，于是我们什么都不做，那么特朗普推动中国对朝鲜施加压力的计划又怎么样呢？
It’s worth trying, but I don’t think it’ll work, either. China’s relations with North Korea aren’t nearly as close as Americans think.
这值得一试，但我也同样不认为它会奏效。中国与朝鲜的关系并没有像美国人想的那么接近。
President Xi Jinping of China will probably amp up the pressure somewhat, and that’s useful, but few expect Kim Jong-un to give up his nukes. In the 1990s, North Korea continued with its nuclear program even as a famine claimed the lives of perhaps 10 percent of the population, and it’s hard to see more modest sanctions succeeding now.
中国国家主席习近平可能会增加压力，这是有用的，但是几乎没有人会指望金正恩就这样放弃他的核武。1990年代，即便一场饥荒夺去了大约10％人口的生命，朝鲜仍在继续执行其核计划，如今那些温和得多的制裁就更难生效了。
“North Korea will never, ever give up its nuclear weapons,” says Jieun Baek, author of a fascinating recent book, “North Korea’s Hidden Revolution.” Sanctions will squeeze the regime, she says, but not deter it. Instead, she urges greater measures to undermine the regime’s legitimacy at home by smuggling in information about it and the world (as some activists are already doing).
“朝鲜绝不会放弃核武器，”白枝恩(Jieun Baek)说，她最近出版了一本精彩的著作《朝鲜的隐藏革命》(North Korea’s Hidden Revolution)。她说，制裁将挤压这个政权，但是并不能威慑它。相反，她敦促采取更多措施，将更多关于该国与世界的信息偷偷带进该国（正如一些活动人士已经在做的那样），以此破坏该政权在国内的合法性。
The only option left, I think, is to apply relentless pressure together with China, while pushing for a deal in which North Korea would verifiably freeze its nuclear and missile programs without actually giving up its nukes, in exchange for sanctions relief. This is a lousy option, possibly unattainable, and it isn’t a solution so much as a postponement of one. But all the alternatives are worse.
我认为唯一的选择是与中国一起不懈施加压力，同时推动朝鲜签订协议，切实冻结其核计划和导弹计划，而不要求其放弃核武库，以换取放松制裁。这是一个糟糕的选择，可能也是无法实现的，并且它不是一个解决方案，更像是在拖延。但其他所有方案都更糟。
And if Trump tries to accelerate the process with a pre-emptive military strike? Then Heaven help us.
如果特朗普试图加速先发制人的攻击进程呢？那就只有求老天保佑了。