WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald J. Trump is expected to select as commerce secretary Wilbur Ross, a billionaire investor who became known as the “king of bankruptcy” for buying, restructuring and selling off steel makers and other fading industrial companies, officials on the transition team said on Thursday.
华盛顿——交接团队的多名高层人士周四表示，候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)预计会选择身家亿万的投资人威尔伯·罗斯(Wilbur Ross)担任商务部长。罗斯善于购买钢铁企业及其他衰落的工业企业，然后加以重组并售出，因而有“破产之王”之称。
After choosing national security hard-liners for some of his earliest appointments, Mr. Trump is now turning to a group of ultrawealthy conservatives to help steer administration policy.
在最初任命了一些国家安全强硬派人士后，特朗普现在寻求让一群富有的保守派帮助他把握政府政策。
In addition to Mr. Ross, a generous contributor to his campaign, Mr. Trump is likely to choose Todd Ricketts, a Republican megadonor who is an owner of the Chicago Cubs and whose father founded TD Ameritrade, to be the deputy commerce secretary, the officials said. And on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said he would name Betsy DeVos, a school choice activist and Republican fund-raiser, as his education secretary.
这些高层人员表示，除了为特朗普的竞选活动捐赠大笔资金的罗斯，他还有可能选择托德·里基茨(Todd Ricketts)担任商务部副部长。后者也是一位捐赠了不少资金的共和党人，是芝加哥小熊队(Chicago Cubs)的所有人，他的父亲则是TD Ameritrade的创始人。特朗普周三表示，他会任命择校活动人士、共和党筹款人贝茜·德沃斯(Betsy DeVos)担任教育部长。
Mr. Ross, 78, an economic adviser to Mr. Trump’s campaign whose fortune is estimated by Forbes to be $2.9 billion, is aligned with Mr. Trump on trade. He says the United States must free itself from the “bondage” of “bad trade agreements,” and he has advocated threats of steep tariffs on Chinese goods. Mr. Ross, the chairman of the private equity firm WL Ross & Company, has also pressed for cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent, from 35 percent, and reducing taxes and regulations on energy companies.
78岁的罗斯之前是特朗普竞选团队的经济顾问，《福布斯》(Forbes)估计他的财富达到29亿美元。在贸易问题上，罗斯与特朗普立场一致。他表示，美国必须将自己从“糟糕的贸易协议”的“束缚”中解放出来，还支持对中国商品收取高额关税的威胁。作为私募股权公司WL Ross & Company的董事长，罗斯也曾施压，要求将企业税从35%减少到15%，还要求减轻针对能源企业的税收和管制。
During the general election, he hosted at least one fund-raiser for Mr. Trump at his home in the Hamptons. There, Mr. Trump, who at the time was pondering his choice for a running mate, turned his deliberations into a party game, soliciting opinions from the donors in attendance.
在普选期间，他在自己位于汉普顿的家里至少为特朗普举办过一次筹款活动。特朗普当时正在考虑竞选搭档的人选，他把自己的思考过程变成一个聚会游戏，向在场的捐赠者征询意见。
Mr. Ross also owns a waterfront estate in Palm Beach, Fla., down the road from Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s club, which is expected to be his White House getaway, and where the president-elect was spending Thanksgiving with his family.
罗斯在加州的棕榈滩也有一处滨水房产，就在特朗普的俱乐部马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)所在那条路的另一头。该庄园预计会成为特朗普任职期间的度假别墅，这位候任总统正和家人在那里庆祝感恩节。
If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Ross would succeed another wealthy campaign donor at the helm of an agency charged with promoting American commercial interests and trade around the world. Penny Pritzker, President Obama’s commerce secretary, is a billionaire entrepreneur who was an early financial backer of Mr. Obama and is an heiress to the Hyatt Hotels fortune.
如果得到参议院批准，罗斯将接替另一位富有的竞选活动捐赠者，掌管一个负责在全世界促进美国商业利益和贸易的机构。奥巴马总统的商务部长潘妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)也是一位亿万富翁企业家，她是凯悦酒店财富的女继承人，曾在早期为奥巴马的竞选活动提供资金。
Unlike Mr. Trump and Mr. Ross, Ms. Pritzker has been a leading proponent of forging new free-trade agreements. One of her top priorities was the completion of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping 12-nation accord that Mr. Trump has promised to scrap.
与特朗普和罗斯不同，普利茨克是新自由贸易协议的主要支持者。她最重要的优先事项之一便是达成跨太平洋伙伴关系协定(Trans-Pacific Partnership)，即特朗普承诺废除的那个12国一揽子协议。