In 1972, President Richard Nixon’s White House dispatched burglars to bug Democratic Party offices. That Watergate burglary and related “dirty tricks,” such as releasing mice at a Democratic press conference and paying a woman to strip naked and shout her love for a Democratic candidate, nauseated Americans — and impelled some of us kids at the time to pursue journalism.
1972年，理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)总统领导的白宫派人闯入民主党的办公室并安装窃听器。水门闯入事件和相关的“卑鄙伎俩”，比如在民主党的新闻发布会现场放老鼠，还有出钱让一个女人脱光衣服，高喊自己爱着某个民主党的候选人，这一切让美国民众感到厌恶——当时还是孩子的我们当中，就有一部分人因为受到这些事情的刺激，从而立志从事新闻事业。
Now in 2016 we have a political scandal that in some respects is even more staggering. Russian agents apparently broke into the Democrats’ digital offices and tried to change the election outcome. President Obama on Friday suggested that this was probably directed by Russia’s president, saying, “Not much happens in Russia without Vladimir Putin.”
如今到了2016年，我们目睹的一起政治丑闻在某些方面甚至更加令人震惊。俄罗斯特工显然闯进了民主党人的数字办公室，并且试图改变选举结果。奥巴马总统周五暗示这可能是俄罗斯总统下令进行的，称，“俄罗斯发生的事大都少不了弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的参与”。
In Watergate, the break-in didn’t affect the outcome of the election. In 2016, we don’t know for sure. There were other factors, but it’s possible that Russia’s theft and release of the emails provided the margin for Donald Trump’s victory.
在水门事件中，闯入行为并未影响选举的结果。但在2016年，我们却不能确定。的确存在其他因素，但俄罗斯盗窃并公布相关电子邮件的做法为唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的胜利增添了一些优势，这种情况也是可能的。
The C.I.A. says it has “high confidence” that Russia was trying to get Trump elected, and, according to The Washington Post, the directors of the F.B.I. and national intelligence agree with that conclusion.
中央情报局(CIA)称，该机构“非常确信”俄罗斯试图让特朗普当选，另据《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)报道，联邦调查局(FBI)局长和国家情报机构负责人均认同这一结论。
Both Nixon and Trump responded badly to the revelations, Nixon by ordering a cover-up and Trump by denouncing the C.I.A. and, incredibly, defending Russia from the charges that it tried to subvert our election. I never thought I would see a dispute between America’s intelligence community and a murderous foreign dictator in which an American leader sided with the dictator.
针对爆料，尼克松和特朗普的回应都颇为糟糕。尼克松是下令掩盖真相，特朗普则是谴责CIA，并且令人难以置信地为俄罗斯辩护，帮助其摆脱试图颠覆我们的选举的指控。我从没想到自己会亲眼看到这样的景象：美国情报界与凶残的外国独裁者产生了争执，美国的领导者却站在独裁者一边。
Let’s be clear: This was an attack on America, less lethal than a missile but still profoundly damaging to our system. It’s not that Trump and Putin were colluding to steal an election. But if the C.I.A. is right, Russia apparently was trying to elect a president who would be not a puppet exactly but perhaps something of a lap dog — a Russian poodle.
我们要明确一点：这是对美国的攻击，虽然杀伤性不及导弹，但依然极大地破坏了我们的制度。特朗普和普京并没有合谋窃取选举的胜利。但如果CIA是对的，那么俄罗斯似乎试图令这样一位总统当选——准确地说，他并不是傀儡，但或许更像是条哈巴狗，一条俄罗斯贵宾狗。
In Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair was widely (and unfairly) mocked as President George W. Bush’s poodle, following him loyally into the Iraq war. The fear is that this time Putin may have interfered to acquire an ally who likewise will roll over for him.
英国首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)曾（有失公正地）在国内遭到普遍奚落，被说成是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的贵宾狗，忠心耿耿地追随布什参加伊拉克战争。令人担忧的是，这一次普京插手或许是为了获得一个盟友，同样也会乐意为他打滚儿。
Frankly, it’s mystifying that Trump continues to defend Russia and Putin, even as he excoriates everyone else, from C.I.A. officials to a local union leader in Indiana.
特朗普还在继续为俄罗斯和普京辩护，同时却对其他所有人予以痛斥，从CIA官员到印第安纳州一名当地工会领袖，坦率地说，这样的举动令人费解。
Now we come to the most reckless step of all: This Russian poodle is acting in character by giving important government posts to friends of Moscow, in effect rewarding it for its attack on the United States.
现在我们看到了最鲁莽的一步：这条俄罗斯贵宾狗正在显露自己的本性，让莫斯科的朋友们出任重要的政府职务，这实际上等于酬谢莫斯科攻击美国。
Rex Tillerson, Trump’s nominee for secretary of state, is a smart and capable manager. Yet it’s notable that he is particularly close to Putin, who had decorated Tillerson with Russia’s “Order of Friendship.”
特朗普提名的国务卿人选雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)是一位聪明能干的管理人员。但值得注意的是，他和普京特别亲密。普京曾授予蒂勒森俄罗斯的”友谊勋章“(Order of Friendship)。
Whatever our personal politics, how can we possibly want to respond to Russia’s interference in our election by putting American foreign policy in the hands of a Putin friend?
不管我们个人的政治立场是什么，我们怎么能用把美国的外交政策交到普京的朋友手里这种方式，来回应俄罗斯对我们选举的干涉呢？
Tillerson’s closeness to Putin is especially troubling because of Trump’s other Russia links. The incoming national security adviser, Michael Flynn, accepted Russian money to attend a dinner in Moscow and sat near Putin. A ledger shows $12.7 million in secret payments by a pro-Russia party in Ukraine to Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort. And the Trump family itself has business connections with Russia.
因为特朗普和俄罗斯的其他关联，蒂勒森与普京关系密切这一点尤其令人担忧。下一任国家安全顾问迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)在收了俄罗斯的钱之后，出席在莫斯科举行的一场晚宴，并与普京比邻而坐。一本分类账簿显示，乌克兰的一个亲俄政党曾秘密付给特朗普的前竞选经理保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)1270万美元（约合9000万元人民币）。并且特朗普家族本身也和俄罗斯有业务联系。
It’s true that there will be counterbalances, including Gen. James Mattis, the former Marine commander who has no illusions about Moscow and is expected to be confirmed as defense secretary. But over all it looks as if the Trump administration will be remarkably pro-Putin — astonishing considering Putin’s Russia has killed journalists, committed war crimes in Ukraine and Syria and threatened the peaceful order in Europe.
诚然，制衡力量是会有的，包括对莫斯科不抱任何幻想并有望获准担任国防部长的前海军陆战队指挥官詹姆斯·马蒂斯上将(Gen. James N. Mattis)。但总体上，特朗普政府看起来似乎明显亲普京——考虑到普京统治的俄罗斯杀害记者、在乌克兰和叙利亚犯下战争罪并威胁欧洲的和平秩序，这种情况令人震惊。
So it’s critical that the Senate, the news media and the public subject Tillerson to intense scrutiny. There are other issues to explore as well, including his role in enabling corruption in Chad, one of the poorest countries in the world. The same is true of his role in complicity with the government of Angola, where oil corruption turned the president’s daughter into a billionaire even as children died of poverty and disease at a higher rate than anywhere else in the world.
因此，参议院、新闻媒体和公众让蒂勒森接受严格的审查至关重要。其他一些问题也需要调查：乍得是全球最穷的国家之一，腐败在该国之所以成为可能，他在其中到底扮演了什么角色？在安哥拉，石油腐败让总统之女变身亿万富翁，而该国儿童死于贫困和疾病的比例却比世界其他任何地方都高。他在与安哥拉政府合谋一事中又发挥了什么作用？
Maybe all this from Russia to Angola was just Tillerson trying to maximize his company’s revenue, and he will act differently as secretary of state. Maybe. But I’m skeptical that his ideology would change in fundamental ways.
也许从俄罗斯到安哥拉的所有这一切，蒂勒森所做的都只是想让自己公司的收入最大化，而且当上国务卿后，他的表现会有所不同。也许会这样。但我怀疑他的思想体系不会发生根本性的改变。
This is not only about Tillerson just as the 1972 break-in was not only about the Watergate building complex. This is about the integrity of American democracy and whether a foreign dictator should be rewarded for attacking the United States. It is about whether we are led by a president or a poodle.
这不仅仅关乎蒂勒森，就像1972年的闯入事件不仅仅关乎水门建筑群一样。这关乎美国民主的诚信，以及是否应该奖励外国独裁者攻击美国，这关乎领导我们的究竟是一个总统，还是一条贵宾狗。