Barron Trump, the fifth and youngest child of President Donald Trump, will attend St. Andrew’s Episcopal, a preparatory school in Potomac, Maryland, in the fall, affirming the first family’s plans to reunite in Washington after living apart since Trump took office.
唐纳德·特朗普总统的第五个也是最小的孩子巴伦·特朗普(Barron Trump)，今年秋天将到马里兰州波托马克的一所预科学校——圣安德鲁主教学校(St. Andrew’s Episcopal)上学。自特朗普就职以来一直处于分居状态的第一家庭在华盛顿团聚的计划，由此得到证实。
The 11-year-old Barron and his mother, Melania Trump, the first lady, have been living in Trump Tower in New York City so that Barron could finish out the academic year at his Manhattan private school. Melania Trump has expressed reservations about bringing Barron closer to the Washington spotlight. In an interview with Bloomberg News this month, Donald Trump said that his wife and youngest son still planned to join him in Washington.
现年11岁的巴伦和他的妈妈、第一夫人梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)一直住在纽约的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)内，以便让巴伦读完在曼哈顿一所私立学校的学年。梅拉尼娅·特朗普曾表示，她对于把巴伦带到华盛顿的聚光灯下持保留意见。本月接受彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)采访时，唐纳德·特朗普说他的妻子和最小的儿子仍然计划到华盛顿与他团聚。
Melania Trump confirmed the decision.
梅拉尼娅·特朗普证实了这一决定。
“We are very excited for our son to attend St. Andrew’s Episcopal School,” she said in a statement. “It is known for its diverse community and commitment to academic excellence. The mission of St. Andrew’s is ‘to know and inspire each child in an inclusive community dedicated to exceptional teaching, learning, and service,’ all of which appealed to our family.”
“我们对儿子去圣安德鲁主教学校上学感到兴奋，”她在一份声明中表示。“圣安德鲁以多元化的社群以及致力于培养学业优异的学生闻名，它的使命是，‘在一个讲求包容、致力于提供卓越教学服务的社区中，了解、激励每一个孩子，’所有这一切对我们一家很有吸引力。”
The choice of St. Andrew’s in suburban Montgomery County is a break from tradition for school-age children of the first family. Many presidential families, including the Obamas, Clintons, Nixons and Roosevelts, sent their children to the prestigious Sidwell Friends, a Quaker school in Washington. Jimmy Carter sent his daughter, Amy, to public school in the city.
选择位于蒙哥马利县郊区的圣安德鲁主教学校，打破了第一家庭的学龄子女择校传统。很多总统家庭，包括奥巴马、克林顿、尼克松和罗斯福，都把子女送进了华盛顿一所声誉卓著的贵格会学校——西德威尔友谊中学(Sidwell Friends School)。吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)则把女儿艾米(Amy)送进了华盛顿的公立学校。
The arrangement for Barron should provide much-needed relief to the law enforcement agencies that have grappled for months with the demands of protecting a first family regularly divided between two cities. The New York City police alone have spent an estimated $127,000 to $145,000 a day since Trump took office to protect Barron and Melania Trump while in residence at Trump Tower, according to the department’s commissioner.
过去几个月里，执法部门一直奋力为经常性分隔两地的第一家庭提供保护，针对巴伦的安排，应该会让亟待解脱的他们松一口气。据纽约市警察局长介绍，自从特朗普就职以来，为了保护住在特朗普大厦内的巴伦和梅拉尼娅，单是该市警方每天估计就要花费12.7至14.5万美元。
For the Secret Service, the reunion at the White House would considerably simplify the demands and strategy for protecting the first family. The agency’s New York City field office, which typically shoulders a large criminal and investigative workload as well, has been heavily strained by the present arrangement. And the unusually high number of New York-based Trumps in need of protection has required agents from across the country to set aside criminal investigations to fly to the city for two-week protection stints.
对特勤局(Secret Service)来说，第一家庭的团聚将大大简化保护的需求和策略。该机构一般还承担着相当重的刑事调查任务，当前的安排让其驻纽约市办公室疲于应付。此外，由于住在纽约且需要被保护的特朗普家族成员格外多，特勤局只好从全国各地抽调特工，让他们轮流放下手头的刑事调查工作，飞到这里执行为期两周的保护任务。