MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa — Moments after Fox News announced the lineup for Thursday’s Republican debate, Donald J. Trump said Tuesday that it was pretty “irrevocable” that he would skip the event, which takes place just days before the Iowa caucuses.
艾奥瓦州马歇尔镇——就在Fox新闻频道(Fox News)宣布周四共和党总统参选人辩论阵容的不久之后，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)周二宣布，他将缺席这次活动而且“绝不反悔”。此次辩论举行的时间，就在艾奥瓦州党团会议的几天前。
“Let’s see how much money Fox is going to make on the debate without me,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference here, where he continued to attack Megyn Kelly and the crew at Fox News, with whom he sparred at an earlier debate.
“没有我，就等着看Fox搞辩论能赚到多少钱吧，”特朗普在新闻发布会上说。他一直在攻击知名主持人梅根·凯利(Megyn Kelly)和Fox新闻频道的员工，在此前的一场辩论上，他曾与他们激烈争吵。
“It’s time that somebody plays grown-up,” he said.
“是时候有人表现得像个大人一样了，”他说。
Just after Mr. Trump started speaking, his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, confirmed that he would skip Thursday’s event, saying, “He will not be participating in the Fox News debate on Thursday” and that “it’s not under negotiation.”
就在特朗普发言后不久，他的竞选团队经理考利·莱万多夫斯基(Corey Lewandowski)确认他不会出席周四的活动，“他不会参加Fox新闻频道周四的辩论会”，并且“没有谈判余地”。
Mr. Trump’s absence would leave the main debate stage without the candidate who leads in national polls, one who has been a big ratings draw for past debates. Mr. Trump has threatened in the past to skip debates, but his remarks Tuesday night were his strongest statement yet that he would not participate.
特朗普缺席后，辩论会场上就缺少了在全国民调中领跑的参选人，而在过去几十年里，特朗普都能极大地提升收视率。特朗普此前就曾威胁过可能会缺席辩论，但周二晚上他发表了迄今为止最为强硬的声明，表示不会参加。
Fox News said Mr. Trump’s refusal to debate his rivals was “near unprecedented.”
Fox新闻频道表示，特朗普拒绝和他的对手辩论“近乎史无前例”。
“This is rooted in one thing – Megyn Kelly, whom he has viciously attacked since August and has now spent four days demanding be removed from the debate stage,” the network said in a statement.
Fox电视台在声明中表示，“根源都在于梅根·凯利——特朗普从8月起就一直在恶毒攻击她。现在，他花了四天时间要求让凯利从辩论台上消失。”
“Capitulating to politicians’ ultimatums about a debate moderator violates all journalistic standards, as do threats, including the one leveled by Trump’s campaign manager Corey Lewandowski toward Megyn Kelly,” the statement continued. “In a call on Saturday with a Fox News executive, Lewandowski stated that Megyn had a ‘rough couple of days after that last debate’ and he ‘would hate to have her go through that again.’ Lewandowski was warned not to level any more threats, but he continued to do so. We can’t give in to terrorizations toward any of our employees.”
“政客对辩论主持人发表最后通牒，就向政客投降，这违背了所有的新闻标准。向威胁投降也如此，就像特朗普竞选团队经理考利·莱万多夫斯基这次对梅根·凯利的威胁，”声明接着说，“周六，在与Fox新闻频道一位高管通话时，莱万多夫斯基表示，凯利在‘上一次辩论后经历了几天难熬的日子’，而他‘不愿意看到她再承受一次’。莱万多夫斯基曾受到警告，不要再提出任何威胁，但是他置若罔闻。员工受到恐怖恫吓，我们绝不会退让。”
The drama capped an increasingly heated war of words involving Mr. Trump, Ms. Kelly and Fox News as the debate neared and as Mr. Trump found himself facing the prospect of being questioned by her again before a national audience.
随着辩论临近，特朗普发现他自己又得在全国观众面前，被凯利尖锐提问。于是这场牵涉到特朗普、凯利女士和Fox新闻频道的戏码，发生了愈发激烈的唇枪舌剑。
Mr. Trump had lashed out against Ms. Kelly back in August over her questioning of him at a debate, when she asked if previous remarks he had made were a “part of the war on women.”
去年8月，特朗普就凯利在辩论中对他的提问猛烈还击。当时女主持问他，之前的一些言论是否属于“对女性开战的一部分。”
The clash between Mr. Trump and Fox News reignited over the last few weeks, as the network set out to defend Ms. Kelly from the repeated criticisms of Mr. Trump.
由于Fox新闻频道开始捍卫遭到特朗普再三批判的凯利，在过去几周里，特朗普和该电视台之间的战斗再次被点燃。
Mr. Trump threw the first punch, tweeting that Ms. Kelly had a “conflict of interest” and “should not be allowed to be the moderator of the next debate.”
特朗普先挥出了第一记重拳，在Twitter上表示凯利有“利益冲突”，因而“不应被允许担任下一次辩论的主持人”。
The network was quick to respond, saying: “Megyn Kelly has no conflict of interest. Donald Trump is just trying to build up the audience for Thursday’s debate, for which we thank him.”
Fox电视台迅速反击，声称“梅根·凯利绝无利益冲突。唐纳德·J·特朗普只是试图为我们周三的辩论吸引更多观众，我们还真要谢谢他。”
He continued to accuse Ms. Kelly of journalistic malpractice and bias, before taking the criticisms personal in an interview with CNN on Monday.
他不断指责凯利新闻操守不佳、心存偏见，然后在周一接受CNN采访时对她进行了人身攻击。
“I don’t like her. She doesn’t treat me fairly. I’m not a big fan of hers at all,” Mr. Trump said in the interview.
“我不喜欢她，她待我不公。我觉得她这人不怎么样，”特朗普在采访中说。
Fox responded, again defending Ms. Kelly: “Sooner or later Donald Trump, even if he’s president, is going to have to learn that he doesn’t get to pick the journalists — we’re very surprised he’s willing to show that much fear about being questioned by Megyn Kelly.”
Fox作出回应，再次维护了凯利，“就算成为总统，唐纳德·特朗普迟早也会明白，他没有权利对记者挑三拣四——让我们非常惊讶的是，他情愿告诉公众，自己对梅根·凯利的提问怕成了这副模样。”
But what seemed to really draw the ire of Mr. Trump was two statements put out by the network Tuesday morning. In one, Roger Ailes, the chairman and chief executive of Fox News, personally weighed in, saying in a statement that “Megyn Kelly is an excellent journalist and the entire network stands behind her — she will absolutely be on the debate stage on Thursday night.”
不过，真正惹恼特朗普的似乎是Fox在周二上午发布的两则声明。一则来自Fox新闻频道的董事长兼首席执行官罗杰·艾尔斯(Roger Ailes)。他亲自介入此事，在声明中称“梅根·凯利是名优秀的新闻工作者，全电视台都站在她的身后给予支持——她绝对会在周四晚间出现在辩论台上。”
A statement from the network was even harsher, invoking President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Iran’s supreme leader: “We learned from a secret back channel that the Ayatollah and Putin both intend to treat Donald Trump unfairly when they meet with him if he becomes president — a nefarious source tells us that Trump has his own secret plan to replace the Cabinet with his Twitter followers to see if he should even go to those meetings.”
Fox电视台官方的声明要更为尖刻，其中提及俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)和伊朗最高领袖：“我们从秘密渠道了解到，一旦唐纳德·特朗普成为总统，阿亚图拉和普京与他会面时，都打算待他不公。一个邪恶的信源告诉我们，特朗普有个秘密计划，要用他的Twitter关注者代替内阁，来建议他是否应该赴会。”
Mr. Trump alluded to those two statements in a news conference on Tuesday before an event here, calling them “wise guy” and adding, “I said bye-bye.” He did not mention his decision not to attend the debate at his two rallies in Iowa.
特朗普在周二的新闻发布会上提到了这两则声明，称对方是“聪明人”，并回应道“我说过拜拜咯”。在艾奥瓦州进行的两场造势活动中，他并未谈到自己不参加辩论的决定。
Mr. Lewandowski said that instead of attending Thursday’s debate, Mr. Trump would hold an event in Iowa, raising money for wounded soldiers in the state.
莱万多夫斯基表示，特朗普不会出席周四的辩论，而是会在艾奥瓦举行活动，为该州负伤的军人筹款。
Mr. Trump’s main rival in various polls, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, accused Mr. Trump of chickening out of the debate.
多项民调显示，来自德克萨斯州的联邦参议员泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)是特朗普的主要竞争对手。他对特朗普回避辩论的做法提出了指责。