WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump — who gleefully questioned President Barack Obama’s birthplace for years without evidence, long insisted on the guilt of the Central Park Five despite exonerating proof and claimed that millions of illegal ballots cost him the popular vote in 2016 — wanted to have a word with the American public about accuracy in reporting.
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普总统多年兴致勃勃地质疑贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统的出生地却拿不出证据；长期坚称“中央公园五罪犯”(Central Park Five)有罪，对显示其无辜的证据视而不见；宣称数以百万计的非法选票导致他输掉了2016年的普选。现在，他想和美国民众谈谈新闻报道的准确性。
On Wednesday, after weeks of shifting deadlines, and cryptic clues, Trump released his long-promised “Fake News Awards,” an anti-media project that had alarmed advocates of press freedom and heartened his political base.
周三，在最后期限多次延后和线索扑朔迷离的数周后，特朗普公布了承诺已久的“假新闻奖”(Fake News Awards)。这个反媒体项目让媒体自由倡导人士感到担忧，但也鼓舞了他的核心支持者。
“And the FAKE NEWS winners are ...,” he wrote on Twitter at 8 p.m. Eastern time.
“获得假新闻奖的是……”他东部时间晚上8点在Twitter上写道。
The message linked, at first, to a malfunctioning page on GOP.com, the Republican National Committee website. An error screen read: “The site is temporarily offline, we are working to bring it back up. Please try back later.”
这条信息先是链接到了共和党全国委员会的网站GOP.com一个出现故障的页面。错误提示写着：“网站暂时无法连接到网络，我们正在努力恢复。请稍后再试。”
When the page came back online less than an hour later, it resembled a Republican Party news release. Headlined “The Highly Anticipated 2017 Fake News Awards” and attributed to “Team GOP,” it included a list of Trump administration accomplishments and jabs at news organizations presented in the form of an 11-point list.
当页面在不到一小时后恢复时，看起来是共和党的一篇新闻稿。页面上标题写着《备受期待的2017年假新闻奖》(The Highly Anticipated 2017 Fake News Awards)，落款是“共和党团队”(Team GOP)，内容包括一份清单，分11点列举了特朗普政府的成就和对新闻机构的抨击。
The “winners” were CNN, mentioned four times; The New York Times, with two mentions; and ABC, The Washington Post, Time and Newsweek, with one mention apiece.
“赢家”是CNN，被提到四次；《纽约时报》，被提到两次；ABC、《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)、《时代》(Time)杂志和《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)各一次。
Taken as a whole, Trump’s examples of grievances came as no surprise to anyone who had read his complaints about the media on Twitter.
总的来说，对看过特朗普在Twitter上对媒体的抱怨的人而言，这些例子都不意外。
The various reports singled out by Trump touched on serious issues, like the media’s handling of the investigation by the special counsel Robert Mueller into the Trump campaign’s possible ties to Russia, and frivolous matters, like the manner in which journalists conveyed how the president fed fish during a stop at a koi pond on his visit to Japan.
被特朗普挑出来的报道种类各异，涉及的既有严肃的问题，比如媒体对特别检察官罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)领导的特朗普竞选团队通俄调查的处理，也有琐事，如记者报道总统访问日本期间在一个锦鲤池塘旁喂鱼的方式。
The first item on the list referred not to a news article but to a short opinion piece posted on The Times’ website at 12:42 on the night Trump became president: “The New York Times’ Paul Krugman claimed on the day of President Trump’s historic, landslide victory that the economy will ‘never’ recover,” the entry read.
榜单第一项并非一篇新闻文章，而是《纽约时报》网站在特朗普当选总统那天晚上12:42刊登的一则观点短评：“在特朗普具有历史意义的压倒性获胜当天，《纽约时报》的保罗·克鲁格曼(Paul Krugman)声称经济将‘永不’复苏，”该条目写道。
What Krugman actually wrote was this: “If the question is when markets will recover, a first-pass answer is never.” Krugman concluded his election night take by predicting that a global recession was likely, while adding the caveat, “I suppose we could get lucky somehow.”
而克鲁格曼实际写的是：“如果要问市场何时会复苏，我的第一反应是永远不会。”选举夜的最后，克鲁格曼预言可能出现全球经济衰退，不过加了一个限制性条款：“我想我们也许能侥幸躲过去。”
Three days later, Krugman retracted his prediction of an economic collapse, saying he overreacted.
三天后，克鲁格曼便收回了他的经济崩溃预言，表示自己反应过激了。
The next target was Brian Ross of ABC News, who was suspended by the network last month because of an erroneous report.
下一个攻击对象是美国广播公司新闻网(ABC News)的布赖恩·罗斯(Brian Ross)，上个月，他因一篇错误报道被新闻网停职。
ABC apologized for and corrected Ross’ report that Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, planned to testify that Trump had directed him to make contact with Russian officials when Trump was still a candidate.
布赖恩·罗斯报道称，美国前国家安全顾问迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)打算作证，表示特朗普在还是候选人时曾指示他去接触俄罗斯官员，ABC新闻为该报道致歉并作了更正。
In fact, Trump had directed Flynn to make contact after the election, when he was president-elect.
事实上，特朗普是在大选过后才指示弗林与俄方接触，当时他已当选总统。
At the time of Ross’ suspension, Kathleen Culver, the director of the Center for Journalism Ethics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said that the president was likely to use the mistake as ammunition against his political opponents — an observation that seemed borne out by the “Fake News Awards.”
罗斯被停职时，威斯康辛大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin-Madison)新闻伦理中心主任凯瑟琳·卡尔福(Kathleen Culver)曾表示，总统很可能将这一失误用作攻击政敌的弹药——这一评论似乎得到了“假新闻奖”的证实。
The third entry on the GOP.com list went after CNN, a favorite target of the president, for reporting incorrectly last month that the president’s eldest child, Donald Trump Jr., had received advance notice from WikiLeaks about a trove of hacked documents that it planned to release during last year’s presidential campaign.
共和党网站GOP.comd榜单上收录的第三名送给了CNN，这是特朗普最爱的攻击对象，因上个月对总统长子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)的报道有误上榜。报道称去年总统大选期间，维基解密(WikiLeaks)在即将披露一大批黑客窃取文件前先知会了小唐纳德·特朗普。
In fact, the email to the younger Trump was sent a day after the documents, stolen from the Democratic National Committee, were made available to the general public. The correction undercut the main thrust of CNN’s story, which had been seized on by critics of the president as evidence of coordination between WikiLeaks and the Trump campaign.
事实上，小唐纳德·特朗普收到的邮件是在这些从民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)窃取来的文件公布以后才发出的。这一纠正削弱了CNN报道的主要爆点，而特朗普的批评者一度正是抓住这一点，称维基解密和特朗普竞选团队之间有合作。
Another entry on the list took on The Washington Post, claiming that it had “FALSELY reported the President’s massive sold-out rally in Pensacola, Florida was empty. Dishonest reporter showed picture of empty arena HOURS before crowd started pouring in.”
榜单又接着点名了《华盛顿邮报》，称其“错误地报道总统在佛罗里达州彭萨科拉的一场门票售罄的大型集会现场空空荡荡。不诚实的记者展示的是群众涌入会场前几个小时的空会场图片”。
The reporter in question was David Weigel, who had posted the photo in question on his Twitter account before quickly deleting it. The Post itself did not publish the photo or a report on the size of the crowd at the Trump event. The “Fake News Awards” entry, however, conflated a reporter’s tweet with the publication itself. It also omitted the fact that Weigel deleted his tweet and apologized for it when it was pointed out to him that it was misleading. Further, it did not mention that Trump had called for Weigel to be fired over the tweet. (He was not.)
这名出问题的记者是戴维·韦格尔(David Weigel)，他在自己的Twitter账户上发布了这张问题照片后很快便将其删除。《华盛顿邮报》本身并未发布这张照片，或发表有关特朗普本次活动观众规模的报道。而“假新闻奖”的榜单混淆了一名记者的推文和出版物本身。它同样没提到韦格尔删除了推文，并在人们向他指出图片有误导性之后为此道歉。此外，它也没提及特朗普呼吁就此事解雇韦格尔。（韦格尔未被解雇。）
The content of the 11-point list was perhaps less notable than its premise: a sitting president using his bully pulpit for a semi-formalized attack on the free press.
这份共有11项的清单预设的场面是：一位在任总统，使用自己那得天独厚的言论平台，对媒体自由发起一场半正式的攻击。但它的实际内容似乎并没有那么不得了。
In two subsequent tweets Wednesday night, Trump added that there were “many great reporters I respect” and defended his administration’s record in the face of “a very biased media.”
在周三晚间的两条后续推文中，特朗普补充说也有“许多我尊敬的伟大记者”并在“偏见深重的媒体”面前为自己的政绩辩解。
From the beginning, the awards were the sort of Trumpian production that seemed easy to mock but difficult to ignore. Members of the news media joked about the speeches they would prepare, the tuxedos and gowns they would fetch. It would be an honor, they said, just to be nominated.
从一开始，这个奖项就是那种看似容易拿来开玩笑但不容易忽视的“特朗普制造”。媒体成员们开玩笑说自己将会准备什么获奖感言，还要穿什么西服或礼服。他们说，即使只是被提名，都是一种荣幸。
Here, it seemed, was the opéra bouffe climax of Trump’s campaign against the media, a bizarro-world spectacle that both encapsulated and parodied the president’s animus toward a major democratic institution.
至此，这看来都像是特朗普反媒体运动这出滑稽戏剧的高潮，是荒唐世界的奇观，囊括并戏仿着特朗普对一项重要的民主制度的敌意。
Late-night comedy shows created satirical Emmys-style advertising campaigns to snag what some referred to as a coveted “Fakey.”
深夜喜剧秀创作了艾美奖风格的讽刺广告，想要与这个被人称作人人都想要的“假奖”扯上关系。
“The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” bought a billboard in Times Square, nominating itself in categories like “Least Breitbarty” and “Corruptest Fakeness.” Jimmy Kimmel, who has emerged as a Trump bête noire, called it “the Stupid People’s Choice Awards.”
《斯蒂芬·科尔伯特深夜秀》(Late Show with Stephen Colbert)在时报广场买了一块广告牌，在“最不布莱巴特”和“最腐败的假货”奖项下提名了自己。已经有了特朗普死敌的名声的吉米·基梅尔(Jimmy Kimmel)称之为“愚蠢人民选择奖”。
Trump’s list did not mention BuzzFeed, a media outlet that drew his ire last year when it published a salacious and largely unsubstantiated intelligence dossier that purported to lay out how Russia had aided the Trump campaign. On Jan. 8, Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, filed a defamation lawsuit in federal court against Fusion GPS, the firm behind the report, as well as a separate lawsuit against BuzzFeed in state court.
特朗普的榜单并未提及去年惹怒了自己的媒体BuzzFeed，该网站曾发布了一篇低俗而基本上没有事实依据的情报档案，自称从中能看出俄罗斯如何帮助了特朗普竞选。1月8日，长期担任特朗普律师的迈克尔·D·科恩(Michael D. Cohen)以诽谤罪向联邦法院起诉了在这篇报道背后的Fusion GPS公司，并在州法院另外起诉了BuzzFeed。
Trump also did not mention Michael Wolff, the author of the slashing, if error-specked, best-seller, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” although a lawyer working on his behalf had sent a letter demanding that the publisher Henry Holt and Co. halt publication of the book.
特朗普也没有提及迈克尔·沃尔夫(Michael Wolff)——虽有瑕疵但来势凶猛的畅销书《炮火与怒火——特朗普的白宫内部》(Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House)的作者。但已有一位代表特朗普的律师向出版商亨利·霍尔特出版公司(Henry Holt and Co.)致信，要求停止这本书的发行。
“Fire and Fury” did not come out until Jan. 5, so perhaps the author will receive a prominent mention next January, if the president sees fit to give out the 2018 Fake News Awards.
《炮火与怒火》1月5日才得以出版，如果总统觉得2018年再颁一个假新闻奖是个好主意的话，那么作者在明年1月倒可能得到该奖的眷顾。