WASHINGTON — Officials are putting the final touches on what will be nearly a week of celebrations for Donald J. Trump’s inauguration as president on Friday. But pomp and circumstance does not come cheap.
华盛顿——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)将于周五就职为总统，庆祝活动将持续近一周，工作人员正在为此做最后的准备。但这隆重的排场代价不菲。
Here’s a peek at the dollars and cents behind the events in Washington.
这些活动将在华盛顿举行，这里让我们来看一下它们背后的花销。
How much will it cost?
花费几何？
The price of Inauguration Day and the week leading up to it could top $200 million, based on the cost of inaugurations past and estimates by officials planning the week’s events. Costs could fluctuate depending on the weather on Inauguration Day and the size of the crowd that turns out.
总统就职日和之前一周的开销有可能超过2亿美元，这个推测是基于以往就职典礼的花销，以及筹备这周活动的工作人员的估计。具体费用或许会有浮动，这取决于就就职日当天的天气和到场人员的规模。
Who foots the bill?
谁来支付账单？
In bureaucratic terms, the costs are shared by the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, the Presidential Inaugural Committee, the federal government, and state and local governments.
用官僚体系的术语来讲，这些费用将由就职典礼国会联合委员会(Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies)、总统就职委员会(Presidential Inaugural Committee)、联邦政府、州政府和地方政府共同支付。
Put more simply: Private donors and taxpayers split the bill.
而直白地讲：是私人捐赠者和纳税人一起买单。
What is the Presidential Inaugural Committee, and where does it get its money?
什么是总统就职委员会？它的资金从何而来？
The committee comprises friends and loyal donors of Mr. Trump’s. With a staff of several hundred people, it plans all of the eye-catching events of the week, including inaugural balls, a concert on the eve of the swearing-in, and a series of private dinners for the president and his incoming administration. The group then raises money from private donors to cover the costs.
总统就职委员会由特朗普的朋友和忠实捐赠人组成。这个有几百名工作人员的委员会策划了本周所有吸引眼球的活动，包括多场就职舞会、就职典礼前夜的音乐会，以及为总统和他即将上任的政府举办的一系列私人晚宴。之后，该委员会将向私人捐赠者募集资金，支付这些费用。
What does Congress cover?
国会负责什么？
Congress plays a less expensive but high-profile role. The Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies, made up of leaders of both chambers, is responsible for orchestrating the swearing-in on Friday outside the Capitol and an inaugural luncheon that will follow. Congress has appropriated $1.25 million for the events.
国会扮演着一个出钱较少、但非常引人注目的角色。就职典礼国会联合委员会是由来自两院的领导层组成，负责策划周五在国会大厦外举行的就职典礼和之后的就职午宴。国会为这些活动拨款125万美元。
What is the biggest expense?
最大的支出是什么？
Security, and it’s not even close. Law enforcement and intelligence officials have been working for more than a year to ensure that the transfer of power goes off seamlessly. About 28,000 personnel from three dozen state, local and federal agencies, including the Secret Service, the F.B.I. and the National Guard, will be on watch this week, and that is not cheap. Security costs could easily top $100 million, which will eventually be paid for by the federal government.
还有安全费用，这可就多了去了。为确保权力交接工作顺利进行，执法和情报官员已经工作了一年多。包括特勤局(Secret Service)、联邦调查局(FBI)和国民警卫队(National Guard)在内，三十多个州、地方和联邦机构的约2.8万工作人员本周将一直保持警惕，这代价可不便宜。安全费用肯定会超过1亿美元，这些最终将由联邦政府买单。
How does Mr. Trump’s inauguration compare to those in years past?
与过去数年的就职相比，特朗普的就职如何？
It will be difficult to compare costs until after the week is over, but Mr. Trump’s inauguration week could well be the most expensive in history thanks to inflation and a sharp uptick in donations.
在本周结束之前，很难对费用进行比较，但考虑通货膨胀和捐赠资金急剧上升的因素，特朗普的就职周很有可能会成为史上最贵的一届。
Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee has proved to be a juggernaut, raising $100 million from a mix of corporations, wealthy individuals and smaller-scale supporters willing to chip in a few bucks. It has easily surpassed the record of $53 million set by the Obama team in 2009. How much of that the committee will spend, and how, is less clear.
事实证明，特朗普的就职委员会力量不可小觑，它从企业、富人，以及愿意捐上几块钱的实力较小的支持者那里筹集了1亿美元资金，轻松超越了奥巴马在2009年创下的5300万美元的纪录。这些资金委员会会如何使用，使用多少，则不那么清楚。