Donald J. Trump said he would favor a 45 percent tariff on Chinese exports to the United States, proposing the idea during a wide-ranging meeting with members of the editorial board of The New York Times.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)表示，他希望对从中国进口的商品征收45%的关税。在与《纽约时报》编委会成员进行内容广泛的交流时，他提出了这一主张。
Mr. Trump also spoke at length about the standoff with armed protesters who last Saturday seized the headquarters at a federal wildlife refuge in Oregon, suggesting that he would have called the leader of the group to try to make a deal to end it — and would have acted against them if negotiations failed because “you cannot let people take over federal property.”
对于一些武装抗议者上周六占据了俄勒冈州的一处联邦野生动物保护区总部并与政府对峙的事情，特朗普也谈到了不少内容。他说如果自己是总统，就会给这个团体的首领打电话，尝试达成一个协议来结束对峙——倘若谈判失败，则会采取行动来对付他们，因为“你不能任由他人接管联邦财产”。
In addressing the trade imbalance with China, Mr. Trump addressed an issue that has been a focus of his speeches going back to 2011, when he considered running for president when President Obama was seeking re-election. In the editorial board meeting, which was held Tuesday, Mr. Trump said that the relationship with China needs to be restructured.
在美中贸易不平衡的议题上，特朗普对此的关注可以追溯到他在2011年的几次演讲。当时奥巴马在寻求连任，而他曾考虑参与竞选。在本周二与时报编委会开会时，特朗普称，美国需要重新构建与中国的关系。
“The only power that we have with China,” Mr. Trump said, “is massive trade.”
“我们对中国的唯一筹码，”特朗普说，“就是巨大的贸易。”
“I would tax China on products coming in,” Mr. Trump said. “I would do a tariff, yes — and they do it to us.”
“我会对从中国进口的商品征税，”特朗普说。“我会设置关税，是的——他们对我们就是这样的。”
Mr. Trump added that he’s “a free trader,” but that “it’s got to be reasonably fair.”
特朗普还说，他支持“自由贸易”，但“必须是公平合理的自由贸易”。
“I would do a tax. and the tax, let me tell you what the tax should be … the tax should be 45 percent,” Mr. Trump said.
“我会征税，至于税率，我来说说税率应该是多少……该征45%，”特朗普称。
China is on a path this year to surpass Canada as the biggest single trading partner of the United States, and its factories provide American consumers with lower-cost products ranging from clothing to computers, so such steep tariffs could hurt the pocketbooks of many Americans.
从目前走势来看，中国可能会在今年超过加拿大，成为美国最大的贸易伙伴。从服装到计算机，中国工厂为美国消费者制造了大量价格更低廉的产品，所以这样的高关税或许会令很多美国民众荷包失血。
In early November, Mr. Trump released a little-noticed plan about changing the United States economic dynamic with China. The tariff number was not featured in the plan, but Mr. Trump called for, among other proposals, pressing to give “American workers a level playing field” to restore the manufacturing base.
去年11月初，特朗普发布过一项不大引人注意的计划，内容是改变美国和中国之间的经济动向。这个关税税率并没有收录在计划中，但特朗普当时提出了“为美国劳动者提供公平的竞争环境”，重振本土的制造业基地。
In addressing the Oregon standoff, Mr. Trump also spoke about the “great anger out there” that appears to be fueling the situation in Burns, Ore.
在提及俄勒冈州的对峙时，特朗普也谈到了似乎在推动俄勒冈州伯恩斯的事态发展的“巨大怒火”。
“I think what I’d do, as president, is I would make a phone call to whoever, to the group,” he said, adding later, “I’d talk to the leader. I would talk to him and I would say, ‘You gotta get out — come see me, but you gotta get out.’”
“我觉得，如果我是总统，我就会打个电话，和这个团体的人谈谈，”他说。随后又称，“我会跟他们的首领谈一谈。我会跟他交流，会说，‘你得离开那里——你来见我，但你得离开那里。’”
“You cannot let people take over federal property,” Mr. Trump said. “You can’t, because once you do that, you don’t have a government anymore. I think, frankly, they’ve been there too long.”
“你不能任由他人接管联邦财产，”特朗普说。“不能，因为一旦那么做了，就没有政府了。坦白地说，我认为他们占据那里的时间已经太久。”