President Donald Trump took aim at two of the world’s most powerful sports leagues and some of their most popular athletes, directly inserting himself into an already fiery debate over race, social justice and athlete activism and stoking a running battle on social media over his comments.
特朗普总统把矛头指向了全世界最有权势的两个体育联盟以及其中人气最高的一些球员，直接插手一个已经非常激烈的关于种族、社会正义和运动员运动的辩论，他的言论在社交媒体上引发了口水大战。
In a speech Friday and a series of tweets Saturday, he urged NFL owners to fire players who do not stand for the national anthem, suggested football is declining because it is not as violent as it once was and seemed to disinvite the NBA champion Golden State Warriors from the traditional White House visit because of their star player Stephen Curry’s public opposition to him.
在星期五的一个演讲以及星期六的一系列推文中，特朗普敦促全国橄榄球联盟(NFL)的老板开除那些在奏国歌时没有肃立的运动员，他说橄榄球运动的衰落是因为比赛没有之前那么暴力了，而且他似乎取消了对NBA冠军金州勇士队(Golden State Warriors)到白宫做客的邀请，因为该队明星球员斯蒂芬·库里(Stephen Curry)公开反对特朗普。
Speaking in Huntsville, Alabama, on Friday, the president used an expletive to describe players who kneel or sit during the anthem to protest police brutality against black Americans and other forms of social injustice.
星期五在阿拉巴马州亨茨维尔的讲话中，特朗普用了粗话来形容那些在奏国歌时跪下或者坐着的球员；他们这么做是为了抗议警察暴力对待黑人和其它社会不公。
“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he’s fired,’ ” the president said at a rally for Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to the Senate this year and is facing Roy Moore in a Republican primary runoff.
“当有人不尊重我们的国旗时，你难道不想看到NFL老板说‘现在就让那个狗娘养的下场，他被解雇了’吗？”总统是在为参议员卢瑟·斯特兰奇(Luther Strange)站台的一个集会上说这番话的，他今年获得委任进入参议院，目前正面临在共和党的一个初选中和罗伊·摩尔(Roy Moore)竞争。
While many fans on social media were supportive of the president, the reaction from many athletes was immediate and impassioned, particularly among African-American football and basketball players. Many, including LeBron James, among the best-known athletes in the country, denounced the president.
虽然社交媒体上的很多粉丝都支持总统，但很多运动员迅速做出了激烈反应，尤其是那些非裔美国橄榄球和篮球球员。包括勒布朗·詹姆斯(LeBron James)在内的很多著名球员都对总统进行了谴责。
“U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain’t going! So therefore ain’t no invite. Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!” James wrote on Twitter, where he has nearly twice as many followers as the president.
“你这个蠢货 @stephencurry30已经说他不会去了！所以根本没有什么邀请。在你出现之前，去白宫才是莫大的荣幸！”詹姆斯在推特上写道。他的推特粉丝数量几乎是总统的两倍。
Trump also drew an unusually strong rebuke from the commissioner of the NFL, whose owners include many donors to, and friends of, the president. Trump lashed out at the commissioner, Roger Goodell, accusing him of stoking disrespect for the country by defending players who protest during the anthem.
特朗普还从NFL总干事那里遭到了异乎寻常的强烈谴责，该联盟的老板中有很多是总统的捐赠者和朋友。特朗普抨击该联盟总干事罗杰·古德尔(Roger Goodell)，指责他煽动对国家的不尊重，为那些在国歌中进行抗议的球员说话。
The Warriors, who play in a league that sometimes promotes social issues and whose owners and players have been known to denounce the president, said in a statement they would use a visit to Washington in February to highlight issues of diversity and inclusiveness.
勇士队所在的联盟有时会促进社会问题，该联盟老板和球员谴责总统是众所周知的事情，勇士队在一份声明中说，他们将于2月份访问华盛顿的时候强调多样性和包容性的问题。
By midafternoon, a spokesman for the University of North Carolina national championship basketball team confirmed the team would not be visiting the White House, but he said it was because of a scheduling conflict, not as a response to the day’s back-and-forth.
下午，北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)的全国冠军篮球队的发言人证实，该球队不会到白宫做客，但他说这是因为日程安排冲突，并不是对当天那些辩论的回应。
Many athletes have been moved to comment on race and social justice more frequently in the past year after a series of police shootings of unarmed African-Americans and the support Trump has received from white supremacists.
过去一年中，在出现了一系列警察枪击手无寸铁的非裔美国人事件，以及特朗普受到白人至上主义者支持之后，很多运动员更加频繁地在种族和社会正义问题上发声。
Last year, Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice. He left the team after last season and has not worked since, inspiring debate over whether teams are punishing him.
去年，旧金山49人队(San Francisco 49ers)的四分卫柯林·卡佩尼克(Colin Kaepernick)在奏国歌的时候下跪，声称这么做是为了抗议警察暴力和种族不公。上个赛季他离开该球队，此后一直没有工作，这引发了球队是否在惩罚他的争论。
At the same time, some owners of NFL teams have suggested players should not take part in political demonstrations during games. None appeared to speak up for Trump on Saturday, while some put out statements critical of him.
与此同时，NFL球队的一些老板建议球员在比赛期间不应参加政治示威活动。星期六似乎没有球队为特朗普说话，有些则发表了指责他的声明。
“It’s unfortunate that the president decided to use his immense platform to make divisive and offensive statements about our players and the NFL,” said Mark Murphy, president and chief executive of the Green Bay Packers.
“总统决定利用他的巨大平台对我们的球员和NFL发出制造分裂和攻击性的声明，这很不幸，”绿湾包装工队(Green Bay Packers)的总裁兼首席执行官马克·墨菲(Mark Murphy)说。