LAS VEGAS — Donald Trump has shaken up his presidential campaign for the second time in two months, hiring a top executive from the conservative website Breitbart News and promoting a senior adviser in an effort to right his faltering campaign.
拉斯维加斯——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)将保守派网站布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)的一名高管招致麾下，并提拔了一名高级顾问。这是他两个月内第二次改组自己的总统竞选团队，意在重振自己受挫的竞选努力。
Stephen Bannon, executive chairman of Breitbart News LLC, will become the Republican campaign’s chief executive, and Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser and pollster for Trump and his running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, will become the campaign manager.
布莱巴特新闻有限责任公司的执行董事长斯蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)将出任共和党竞选阵营的首席执行官，而特朗普及其竞选搭档印第安纳州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)的高级顾问兼民调专家凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)则将升任竞选经理。
Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, will retain his title, and his deputy, Rick Gates, is expected to receive a new one.
竞选主席保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)将保留自己的头衔，他的副手里克·盖茨(Rick Gates)则预计会有新的职务。
The news, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, was confirmed early Wednesday by Conway in a brief interview, but she rejected the idea that the changes amounted to a shake-up and said that Manafort was not being diminished.
《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)最先报道了这一消息。周三一早，康维在接受简短采访时证实了相关消息，但她否认这些变化相当于大改组的观点，并表示马纳福特未被削弱。
“It’s an expansion at a busy time in the final stretch of the campaign,” she said.
“这是在竞选最后阶段的忙碌时刻进行的扩员，”她说。
“We met as the ‘core four’ today,” Conway added, referring to herself, Bannon, Manafort and Gates.
“我们‘核心四人’今天碰了个头，”康维接着说。她指的是她自己、班农、马纳福特和盖茨。
People briefed on the move said that it reflected Trump’s realization that his campaign was at a crisis point. But it also indicates that the candidate — who has chafed at making the types of changes his current aides have asked for, even though he has acknowledged they need to occur — has decided to embrace his aggressive style for the duration of the race, come what may.
知情人士表示，此举反映出特朗普意识到自己的竞选处在危急关头。但它也表明，这位候选人已经决定，无论发生什么，他都将在竞选期间坚持自己的强硬风格。特朗普对做出现任幕僚请求的那种改变很是恼火，尽管他承认它们是有必要的。
Conway has experience in presidential primary races, but a role in a general election represents a new one for her. She is well liked by Trump’s daughter Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, who had been serving as the de facto campaign manager. And she is a veteran pollster and strategist whom Donald Trump trusts.
康维拥有初选方面的经验，但对她来说，大选是一个全新的领域。她深受特朗普的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)及其丈夫、事实上的竞选经理贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)的喜爱，也是唐纳德·特朗普信赖的资深民调专家和策略师。
A frequent cable news presence, Conway now is expected to travel with Trump, filling a void created when Corey Lewandowski, his combative former campaign manager, was fired on June 20.
现在，常在有线电视台新闻上露面的康维预计会陪同特朗普出行，填补好斗的原竞选经理科里·莱万多夫斯基(Corey Lewandowski)在6月20日被解聘后留下的空白。
Bannon has no experience with political campaigns, but he represents the type of bare-knuckled fighter that the candidate had in Lewandowski. And he shares many of Trump’s hard-edge, nationalist and populist views.
班农没有政治竞选方面的经验，但他代表着那种毫不手软的斗士，就像之前的莱万多夫斯基一样。此外，他认同特朗普的很多强硬的民族主义和民粹主义观点。