WASHINGTON — President Trump dismissed reports about contacts between his advisers and Russia on Thursday and defended his performance in his first four weeks in office in a contentious news conference that showcased his unconventional and unconstrained presidency.
华盛顿——在周四进行的一场引发争议的新闻发布会上，特朗普总统对有关他的顾问和俄罗斯联系的报道不加理会，同时为他就职前四周的表现进行了辩护。这场发布会展示了他不合常规、不受约束的执政风格。
At a hastily organized White House event ostensibly intended to announce a new labor secretary, Mr. Trump engaged in an extended attack on the news media and boasted that his new administration was a “fine-tuned machine,” not the chaotic operation perceived by many in Washington.
在一场匆忙组织的白宫活动中——表面上是为了宣布新的劳工部长人选，特朗普跳出这件事，对新闻媒体进行抨击，还吹嘘他的政府是一架“调校精准的机器”，而非华盛顿许多人士所认为的混乱运转。
The challenges, he said, were a result of his predecessors. “To be honest, I inherited a mess, a mess, at home and abroad, a mess,” he said.
他表示，这些挑战是他的前任们所导致的。“老实讲，我接手了一个烂摊子，烂摊子，国内国外都是如此，一个烂摊子，”他说。
Over the course of about an hour and a half, the president revealed that he had asked the Justice Department to investigate leaks, said he would sign a new executive order next week restricting travel to the United States and promised to produce in March a plan to repeal and replace his predecessor’s health care system, followed by another plan to overhaul the tax system.
在时长约一个半小时的发布会上，这位总统透露他已经要求司法部对信息泄露进行调查；称他下周会签署一条新的政令，限制赴美旅行；并承诺在3月制定一项计划，废除和取代前任总统的医保制度；之后还会有另一项改革税收制度的计划。
But the session was marked by an extraordinarily raw and angry defense the likes of which has never been seen in a modern White House. At times abrupt, often rambling, characteristically boastful yet seemingly pained at the portrayals of him, Mr. Trump seemed intent on reproducing the energy and excitement of his campaign after a month of grinding governance. He returned repeatedly to his contest with Hillary Clinton and at one point plaintively pleaded for understanding.
但这场发布会最突出的一点，是出现了白宫现代史上前所未有的异常直白和愤怒的辩护。有时突如其来、往往杂乱无章、一贯自吹自擂，却又似乎对有关他的描述感到心痛的特朗普，好像有意在进行了一个月举步维艰的治理工作后再度制造出他竞选期间的那种活力与兴奋。他反复重新提起与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞逐，一度竟悲伤地请求理解。
“The tone is such hatred,” he said, referring to the commentary about him on cable television. “I’m really not a bad person.”
“那语调如此充满仇恨，”他说，这里指的是电视上有关他的评论。“我真的不是一个坏人。”
Mr. Trump disputed any contention that the White House was out of control or not fully functional. “There has never been a presidency that has done so much in such a short period of time,” he said. “And we haven’t even started the big work that starts early next week.”
特朗普抗拒任何有关白宫失控或不能正常运转的观点。“从来没有哪届总统在如此短的时间里做这么多事，”他说。“我们甚至还没开始做大事，那些要到下周早些时候才会开启。”
“Jobs are pouring out of the country,” he said. “ See what’s going on with all of the companies leaving the country, going to Mexico and other places.” Overseas, he said, he found “disaster.”
“工作机会从国内大量流失出去，”他说。“看看那些离开美国，前往墨西哥等国家的企业是怎么回事。”还表示在国外，他看到的是“灾难”。
“We’re going to take care of it all,” he said. “I just want you to know I inherited a mess.”
“我们会解决所有这一切，”他说。“我只想让你们知道，我接手了一个烂摊子。”
Mr. Trump offered his first extended description of his decision to fire Michael T. Flynn, his national security adviser, for misleading Vice President Mike Pence and others in the White House about the contents of a conversation with Russia’s ambassador in December.
特朗普首次进一步谈到他辞退自己任命的国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的决定——原因是他在12月与俄罗斯大使进行的一次谈话的内容上，误导了副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)及其他白宫工作人员。
Mr. Trump said he was not bothered that Mr. Flynn had talked with the ambassador before even arriving at the White House. “When I looked at the information, I said, I don’t think he did anything wrong,” Mr. Trump said. “In fact, I think he did something right.”
特朗普表示，他对弗林在还没有入驻白宫之前就与这位大使交谈并不在意。“得知这个信息时，我说，我不认为他做错了什么，”特朗普说。“实际上，我觉得他做了正确的事。”
The problem, he said, was that Mr. Flynn had told Mr. Pence that sanctions did not come up during the conversation, an assertion belied by a transcript of the call, which had been monitored by American intelligence agencies.
他说问题在于，弗林告诉彭斯谈话中没有涉及制裁问题。该说法被证明是假的，因为那次通话被美国情报机构监听到，有文字记录为证。
“The thing is he didn’t tell our vice president properly and then he said he didn’t remember,” Mr. Trump said. “So either way, it wasn’t very satisfactory to me.”
“问题是他没有恰当地告知我们的副总统，接着又说他不记得了，”特朗普说。“不管是哪种情况，都让我不太满意。”
But reports about contacts between his campaign aides, other associates and Russia were “fake news put out by the media,” he said. In response to questions, he said he had no contact with Russia during the campaign but did not directly respond to questions about whether some of his advisers had. The New York Times reported this week that phone records and intercepted calls showed that some of his associates had repeated contacts with Russian intelligence officials in the year before the election.
但他同时表示，有关他的竞选助手、其他副手与俄罗斯有联系的报道是“媒体放出的假消息”。在回应质疑时，他表示竞选期间他与俄罗斯没有任何接触，但他没有正面回答有关他的一些助手是否与对方有联系的提问。《纽约时报》本周曾报道，通话记录和被拦截的电话显示，他的一些副手在大选之前的一年里曾多次与俄罗斯情报官员联系。
Mr. Trump said he would sign a new executive order next week or perhaps later that would “comprehensively protect our country” while still defending his original travel ban in court. Last week, he said he would take action as early as Monday of this week.
特朗普表示，下周或晚些时候他会签署一项能“全面保护我们国家”的新政令，同时依然为他原来提出的、官司打到法院的入境禁令辩护。上周他曾表示，最早会在本周一采取行动。
His expansive review of his accomplishments, though, included some misinformation.
不过，在有关他的成就的额外描述中，出现一些错误信息。
He asserted that his victory in the Electoral College was the largest since Ronald Reagan. But he won fewer Electoral College votes than three of the four presidents since Reagan: Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and George Bush.
他坚称自己取得了自罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)以来最大的选举团(Electoral College)胜利。但他在选举团获得的选票比自里根以来的四位总统中的三位都要少：巴拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)、比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和乔治·布什(George Bush)。
When a reporter pointed that out, Mr. Trump brushed it off. “I was given that information,” he said.
当一名记者指出这点时，特朗普不予理会。“别人跟我是这么说的，”他说道。