If you’ve been in a funk over the results of this election: Buck up. It’s over. Dry the tears, push back against the malaise, burn away the fog and stiffen the spine.
如果你对这次选举的结果感到沮丧，那就振作起来。选举已经结束了。擦干泪水，抑制莫名的不安，驱散迷雾，挺直脊梁。
There is work to do. Your country needs you, now more than ever. The loyal opposition needs your energy and your moral imagination.
现在还有工作要做。如今你的国家比以往任何时候都需要你。做忠实的反对派需要你付出精力和道德想象力。
You may be out of power, but you aren’t powerless. Righteousness is a self-propagating energy source. Indeed, there is most likely something to be gained in the midst of your loss. Sometimes, it is while wandering in the wilderness that purpose is perfected and voice is clarified. New champions will rise from these ashes, ones who may not now be apparent, and a new path forward will appear. Such is the way of the world; such is the precedent of history.
你手中可能没有权力，但你并不是无能为力。公义是一种自我传播的能量源。事实上，你极有可能从损失中获得一些东西。有时候，你需要在旷野中游荡来完善你的意志，让你的声音更清晰。虽然现在可能还看不分明，但新的斗士将在灰烬中重生，前方的崭新道路也将出现。世界就是这样发展的；历史前例已经证明了这一点。
Donald Trump was elected on a wave of fake news, fake minority outreach and an 11th-hour email head fake by James Comey.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在选举中取得的胜利建立在一波虚假新闻与对少数群体的虚伪示好之上，还有詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)在最后时刻制造的电子邮件假象。
During the campaign, Trump lied with the ease of breathing and made promises he knew well that he could never keep. He positioned himself as a champion of the disaffected, all the while imagining himself a dictator.
在竞选期间，特朗普说谎就像呼吸一样轻松，他非常清楚自己永远不可能兑现自己的诺言。他给自己的定位是捍卫那些对现状不满的人们，同时却把自己想象成独裁者。
Furthermore, Russia may in a way have won a new phase of the Cold War by dabbling in our hot mess of an election. And through it all, Trump nurtured an unhealthy bromance with Vladimir Putin.
此外，在某种程度上，俄罗斯可能通过插手我们一团糟的选举，从而在冷战的新阶段中赢下一城。通过这一切，特朗普同弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)培养出了一种不健康的兄弟情。 
Since winning the election, Trump has taken aim at some fundamentals of our constitutional democracy by not only attacking the media, but individual reporters, while also threatening to revoke American citizenship for the constitutionally protected act of flag burning.
自从赢得选举以来，特朗普的目光已经瞄准了我们的宪政民主的基础，他不仅攻击媒体，而且攻击记者个人，同时也威胁撤销宪法对美国公民焚烧国旗的行为的保护。
Perhaps even more important and more ominous, he is assiduously assembling a team of advisers made up of billionaires and bigots, homophobes and Islamaphobes, climate change deniers and white supremacy believers.
或许更重要、也更有威胁的是，他正在努力组建一个由亿万富翁和偏执者、恐同者和恐伊斯兰者乃至否定气候变化人士和白人至上信徒构成的顾问团队。
Last month, David Axelrod called the budding cabinet assemblage a “Monster’s Ball,” and that may be too mild a phrasing.
上个月，戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)称这个正在成形的内阁组合为“怪物的舞会”，这可能太温和了。
During one of the debates, Trump boasted, while referring to Hillary Clinton: “I will do more for African-Americans and Latinos than she can ever do in 10 lifetimes. All she’s done is talk to the African-Americans and to the Latinos.”
在某一场辩论中，特朗普在提到希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)时夸下海口：“我将为非洲裔美国人和拉美人做更多的事情，比她十辈子能做的都多。她做的无非就是和非洲裔美国人与拉丁美洲人聊天。”
And yet Trump has named as his chief strategist Steve Bannon, who helped to rebrand Nazis with a new name, alt-right, which sounds more like a computer command than a batch of fanatical racists clinging desperately to poisoned ideas. Trump also named as his nominee for attorney general Jeff Sessions, a man once denied a federal judgeship over charges of racism, who fought for public school funding inequity in his home state of Alabama and who has been a stalwart foe of immigrants.
现在，特朗普已经任命史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)担任自己的首席策略师，这位班农曾经帮助纳粹重塑品牌，给它起了一个新名字：另类右翼(alt-right)， 听起来不像一群狂热的种族主义者正不顾一切地坚守着有害的观念，倒像是什么电脑指令一样。特朗普还提名杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)担任司法部长，此人的联邦法官任命曾因被指控种族主义而遭驳回，在家乡阿拉巴马州，他曾为实现公立学校经费不平等而奋斗，此外还是移民的坚定敌人。
On the campaign trail, Trump claimed that he was going to be a “real friend” of the L.G.B.T. community, and once even unfurled a rainbow flag — albeit upside down — with the words “L.G.B.T.s for Trump” scrawled on it. But the British gay news service Pink News claimed Tuesday that “every single Trump cabinet member so far opposes L.G.B.T. rights.” That was before further appointments were announced, but the point is well taken, as they methodically documented the individual appointees’ personal positions on equal rights.
在竞选过程中，特朗普声称他将成为LGBT群体“真正的朋友”。甚至展开了一面彩虹旗――虽然拿反了 ――上面潦草地写着“LGBT支持特朗普”。但英国同性恋新闻机构Pink News周二称，“到目前为止特朗普的每一个内阁成员都反对LGBT权利”，虽然此后还有更多任命要宣布，但这个想法不错，他们是在系统地记录每个接受任命的人在平权问题上的个人立场。
On the campaign trail, the self-professed genital-grabber Trump said that he would be the “the best for women.” This week, Trump named anti-contraception, pro-fetal personhood Tom Price to be secretary of Health and Human Services.
在竞选过程中，自称是生殖器抓取能手的特朗普说自己“是女性最佳选择”。这个星期，特朗普提名反对避孕、赞成把胎儿视为人的汤姆·普莱斯(Tom Price)担任卫生和公共服务部部长。
On the campaign trail, Trump claimed that he wanted to drain the swamp in Washington. But his cabinet choices suggest that his plan is simply to replace the murky water it contains and the smarmy ecosystem that it conceals with one more to his liking.
在竞选过程中，特朗普说他想要抽干华盛顿的沼泽。但是他对内阁的选择却表明，他的计划只是把这个沼泽里的污水和充满谄媚的体系换成一个更对他胃口的。
The same Trump who blasted Clinton for being “owned by Wall Street” assembled a cabinet that is a roster of the superwealthy, including at least two billionaires, and is considering other top-crusters including the miserable Mitt Romney, who is debasing himself by groveling for the secretary of state job before a man whom he once called a fraud. The Washington Post’s Wonkblog published a piece on Wednesday under this headline: “Trump said hedge funders were ‘getting away with murder.’ Now he wants one to help run the economy.”
那个抨击克林顿“完全被华尔街掌控”的特朗普，现在组建了这样一个内阁，堪称超级富豪的花名册，其中包括至少两名亿万富翁，并且还在考虑其他顶级富豪，其中就有悲惨的米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)，他可能得自贬身份，卑躬屈膝地为一个曾经称他是骗子的人担任国务卿 。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的Wonkblog专栏在周三发表了一篇文章，题为：“特朗普曾说对冲基金经理们‘杀人都没人管’。现在他却让这样一个人来帮他管经济” 。
Donald Trump is a fraud, and a dangerous one. This country is depending on morally principled patriots to never let that fact be shifted from center stage.
唐纳德·特朗普是一个骗子，一个危险的人物。如今这个国家需要有道德原则的爱国者们来努力，才能永远不让这个事实淡出人们的视线中心。
Trump rode to victory on a cloud of vapors and vapid promises, and now he is assembling a council of acolytes and opportunists. Now each of us must demonstrate our fortitude in vocal, steadfast resistance.
特朗普靠着一片夸夸其谈和虚假的承诺赢得胜利，现在他正在集结起一群追随者和机会主义者。我们每个人都必须用明确、坚定的反抗来表示我们的坚韧不屈。
Trump must be made to know, in no uncertain terms, that he was elected president and not anointed emperor.
必须让特朗普毫不含糊地认清，他是被选举出来担任总统，而不是被加冕为皇帝。
Not every battle can be won, but every battle must be waged. This is the proving ground. Are you prepared to stand your ground?
不是所有战斗都能取得胜利，但是所有战斗都必须进行。这就是正在受到检验的立场。你准备好站稳自己的立场了吗？