Our golden-haired leader is no silver-tongued devil, but that’s O.K. What he lacks in verbal zingers he makes up for with physical ones.
我们的金发领导人并非巧舌如簧的诡辩之徒，不过这也没什么。他用身体的灵动弥补了辩才上的缺憾。
Body language — both his and that of the pitiable people around him — is telling the story of Donald Trump’s foreign adventure better than anything else.
唐纳德·特朗普本人以及他周围那些可怜人的肢体语言，是诠释他的海外冒险的最好工具。
When I say “pitiable,” I’m thinking about the pope, of course, and the first lady, naturally, but especially Dusko Markovic, the prime minister of Montenegro, who was the visibly stunned victim of the shove heard round the world.
说到“可怜”，我想起的人里当然包括教皇，自然也不会落下第一夫人，但尤其值得一提的是黑山共和国总理杜什科·马尔科维奇(Dusko Markovic)，在全世界的眼皮子底下遭到推搡时，他显然颇为震惊。
Please tell me you saw it. Markovic, Trump and other heads of state were arranging themselves for a photograph. And Markovic had the misfortune to be standing between Trump and the front of the pack, a lesser beauty in the bossy prom queen’s path.
请告诉我你看到了。马尔科维奇、特朗普以及其他国家领导人正为合影站位。马尔科维奇很不幸地卡在特朗普和人群的前排之间，就好像一个不太起眼的姑娘挡了跋扈的舞会皇后的道。
But not for long! Trump batted him out of the way, perhaps mistaking him for a political reporter or picturing James Comey. Then, triumphal, Trump straightened his suit jacket, stiffened his posture and raised his fleshy chin. He was ready for his close-up.
但挡不了多久！特朗普把他推搡到一边，可能误以为他是一名政治新闻记者，或者把他想象成了詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)。随后，旗开得胜的特朗普抻了抻自己的西装外套，摆好挺拔的姿势，抬起丰腴的下巴，为拍特写做好了准备。
With Trump, struts, scowls and pouts reveal every bit as much as what tumbles from his lips, which is a lot less trustworthy. His words can be counterfeit. His gestures are genuine. So it only makes sense that we lean on them for the narrative of his post-truth presidency, whose latest, foreign chapter brimmed with more awkward physicality than a toddlers’ gymnastics class.
就特朗普而言，与从他嘴里冒出来的话语相比，高视阔步、皱眉和撅嘴所传达的信息一点也不少，而且要可信得多。他的话可能掺假。他的姿态则是真诚的。因此唯一合情合理的做法，是依靠这些姿态来诠释他的后真相总统任期——其最新的海外篇章充斥着比幼儿体操班里还要多的尴尬形体动作。
The shove heard round the world was preceded by the curtsy heard round the world, when Trump did precisely what he maligned President Obama for — well, one of the countless things he maligned President Obama for — and approached Saudi Arabia’s monarch, King Salman, in a pose of deference. Hypocrisy, thy name is Trump, and thy knees are bent and thy head is bowed.
传遍世界的推搡发生前，是传遍世界的屈膝礼，特朗普当时的举动与奥巴马总统做过的受他诟病的事情——好吧，是奥巴马做过的受他诟病的无数事情之一——没什么两样，以一种恭顺的姿态靠近沙特阿拉伯的君主萨勒曼国王(King Salman)。你的膝盖一弯，你的头一低，虚伪之人啊，你的名字是特朗普。
Thy sense of rhythm doesn’t exist. Did you see him during that Saudi dance, not so much rattling his saber as dangling it while he wobbled, like a Weeble, from side to side? I imagined the following dialogue balloon above his head: “When I told the king I was a swordsman, this wasn’t what I meant.”
节奏感是不存在的。你可曾看到沙特的那场舞会上，他像“威宝”(Weeble)一样东摇西摆，与其说是在舞动手中的剑，还不如说是在摇晃它的样子？我想像着他的脑袋上方出现这样的对话框：“当我告诉国王我是剑客时，我不是这个意思。”
And the dialogue balloon above Pope Francis’s head when he posed with Trump in Vatican City later in the week would have said: “Forgive me, Father, for I cannot fake delight.” I’ve been told by Vatican insiders that the pope never forgets that he’s on camera and that the precise angle of his eyes and curl of his lips are being captured. He stared straight ahead, his mien as joyless as a gulag.
而教皇方济各于本周晚些时候在梵蒂冈城和特朗普一起摆姿势照相时，头部上方的对话框应该是这样的：“请原谅我，圣父，我不能假装愉快。”梵蒂冈内部人士告诉我，教皇绝不会忘记自己面对着镜头，一颦一笑都会被拍下来。但他当时直视前方，郁郁寡欢。
George Bernard Shaw wrote a play titled “Arms and the Man.” Someday somebody will write a Trump biography titled “Hands and the Man.”
萧伯纳(George Bernard Shaw)写过一个剧本，名为《武器与人》(Arms and the Man)。有朝一日某个人会给特朗普写一本传记，名为《手与人》(Hands and the Man)。
From Spy magazine’s long-ago caricature of Trump as a “short-fingered vulgarian” to that unforgettable moment during a Republican presidential debate when he displayed his digits to try to prove the opposite — Look, Ma, big hands! — his paws have been at center stage.
从《Spy》杂志多年前讽刺特朗普是“短指爆发户”，到他在一场共和党总统候选人辩论会上展示自己的手指，试图证明事实恰恰相反——看啊，妈妈，大手！——那令人难忘的时刻，他的手一直备受关注。
That remained true on the trip. In Israel, there was the swat heard round the world, when, walking alongside Bibi Netanyahu across a red carpet, he noticed that Netanyahu was holding his wife’s hand and so reached back for Melania’s.
此行也是一样。在以色列，他和比比·内塔尼亚胡(Bibi Netanyahu)一起走红毯时，注意到后者握着妻子的手，便回身去牵梅拉尼娅(Melania)的手，结果他的手被弹开的情形传遍了世界。
To say that she withheld it would be an understatement. To say that Twitter and comedians had a field day would be even more of one.
说她不肯牵手，是在轻描淡写。说此事在Twitter上和喜剧演员中间引发了狂欢，就更是轻描淡写了。
After another, subsequent incident in Rome when Melania seemed to decline the heady opportunity to hold her husband’s hand, Seth Meyers, the host of “Late Night,” joked: “Former C.I.A. Director John Brennan testified today that there was contact between President Trump’s campaign and Russian officials. However, still no contact between Donald and Melania.”
接下来在罗马发生另一个插曲后——梅拉尼娅似乎再次拒绝了和丈夫牵手的大好机会——《深夜秀》(Late Night)主持人赛斯·迈尔斯(Seth Meyers)开玩笑说，“前中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·布伦南(John Brennan)今天作证称，特朗普总统的竞选团队和俄罗斯官员接触过。不过，唐纳德和梅拉尼娅仍未有过接触。”
There’s so much she could still be smarting over, including the inauguration back in January, when her husband bounded out of the car and up the steps before her, rushing to greet the Obamas and leaving her in his wake.
她可能仍然对太多事耿耿于怀，包括1月份的就职日那天，他丈夫跳下车，在她前面跳上台阶，赶着去跟奥巴马夫妇打招呼，把她撇在身后。
Courtesy: absent. Chivalry: dead. Her revenge came soon after, on the inaugural stage. She let a smile at her husband drop from her face so quickly and emphatically that it was like an announcement to the world that she’d been wearing a mask.
礼貌：缺席。骑士精神：已死。在就职典礼台上，她很快就发起了报复。对着丈夫时，她脸上的微笑飞快地骤然消失，仿佛是向全世界宣告她一直戴着面具。
But back to our president’s paws, which aren’t just at center stage but also at the center of so much controversy. When Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany visited him in Washington in mid-March, there was debate over whether he denied her a handshake that she’d suggested or simply didn’t hear her request.
但说回我们的总统的双手，它们不仅备受关注，还引发了很多争议。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)于3月中旬到华盛顿拜访他时，坊间有过这样的争论：他到底是在默克尔提议握手时予以拒绝，还是根本没听到她的提议。
The tension in their postures prompted observations about how much more relaxed she and Obama always seemed, but there was another point of comparison — a weirder one — if President George W. Bush came into the picture. At a G8 summit meeting in St. Petersburg in 2006, he walked up behind Merkel, who was seated, and massaged her shoulders. This visibly surprised her. It didn’t seem to amuse her much, either.
两人肢体语言中的紧张意味，让人不禁去感叹她和奥巴马相处时，一直多么放松。但还可以另作一番比较——一种更古怪的比较——如果换成乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统会是什么样。G8峰会于2006年在圣彼得堡召开期间，他曾走到已经落座的默克尔身后，为她按摩肩膀。她显然大吃一惊。看起来她也没感到愉悦。
Amusement wasn’t a word that popped to mind when you saw pictures and read accounts of Trump’s encounters with Emmanuel Macron, the newly elected president of France, in Brussels on Thursday. Maybe that’s because Trump was once again sowing doubt about his commitment to NATO. Or maybe that’s because he reportedly told Macron that he’d supported him, even though his affections had clearly been for Marine Le Pen of the National Front.
当你看到特朗普周四在布鲁塞尔与新当选的法国总统埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)碰面的画面、读到关于他的报道时，脑海中绝不会冒出愉悦一词。这或许是因为，特朗普正再度引得外界质疑他是否会遵守对北约的承诺。也有可能是因为，据说特朗普跟马克龙说自己是支持他的，但此前受到特朗普青睐的显然一直是国民阵线(National Front)的马琳·勒庞( Marine Le Pen)。
Whichever the case, Macron at one point seemed to swerve away from Trump, despite Trump’s outstretched arms, so he could embrace Merkel instead.
不论原因何在，马克龙有那么一刻似乎躲开了特朗普，以便可以拥抱默克尔——尽管特朗普当时伸开了双臂。
At another point, during a formal greeting, Macron and Trump “ grabbed each other’s hands, jaws clenched, in an extended grip that turned Mr. Trump’s knuckles white,” according to The Times.
据时报报道，另外一个正式打招呼的时刻，马克龙和特朗普“牙关紧闭，握着彼此的手，由于握得太用力，特朗普的指关节都泛白了。”
“Their faces tightened,” reported The Washington Post. “Trump reached in first, but then he tried to release, twice, but Macron kept his grip.”
“他们俩绷着脸，”《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post) 报道说。“特朗普先伸出了手，但他后来试图放开，可是马克龙握着他的手不放。”
Sacred texts have received less scrupulous analysis than Trump’s foreign-leader handshakes, his presidential-debate snorts (remember those?) and the reactions — aghast, awe-struck, puzzled, peeved — of those who bump up against (or happen to be married to) him.
人们拿出比分析经书时还认真的劲头，分析着特朗普与外国领导人握手的情形，他参加大选辩论时哼鼻子的样子（还记得吗？），以及与他遭遇（或者恰好与他结了婚）的那些人的反应——惊骇、张口结舌、困惑、恼怒。
I think that’s fitting, not just because his actual speech is so honesty-challenged but also because the analyzers are paying respect to the way he takes in information. He prefers television to reading, images to pesky words. Shouldn’t we return the favor when appraising him?
我认为这样做很恰当，不仅仅因为他说出的话诚实度堪虞，还因为这些分析人士正向他汲取信息的方式致敬。他喜欢看电视多过阅读，喜欢图片多过烦人的文字。我们评判他时是否应该以彼之道还施彼身？
And aren’t we in the right to take note of an Israeli diplomat’s physical reaction when Trump said, in Israel, “We just got back from the Middle East,” as if Israel were in South America or something? The diplomat, Ron Dermer, briefly buried his head in one of his hands.
此外，当特朗普在以色列声称“我们刚从中东回来”，就好像以色列位于南美洲或者其他什么地方的时候，我们难道不该注意到一名以色列外交官的肢体反应吗？那个名叫罗恩·德默尔(Ron Dermer)的外交官当时曾短暂地以手掩面。
Do cry for us, Montenegro.
不要为我们哭泣，黑山共和国。