WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said Wednesday that the United States would no longer insist on a Palestinian state as part of a peace accord between Israel and the Palestinians, backing away from a policy that has underpinned the United States’ role in Middle East peacemaking since the Clinton administration.
华盛顿——周三，唐纳德·特朗普总统表示，美国将不再坚持要求巴以和平协议中必须包括一个巴勒斯坦国，这改变了自克林顿政府以来，美国在中东和平进程中的主要政策。
“I’m looking at two-state and one-state” formulations, Trump said, appearing in a joint news conference at the White House with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. “I like the one that both parties like. I’m very happy with the one that both parties like. I can live with either one.”
特朗普在白宫与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)举行的联合新闻发布会上说，“我在考虑两个国家和一个国家”这两种方案，“我喜欢双方都喜欢的那个方案。我会对双方都喜欢的方案感到满意。两个我都能接受。”
Trump’s comments were a striking departure from two decades of diplomatic orthodoxy, and they raised a host of thorny questions about the viability of his position. The Palestinians are highly unlikely to accept anything short of a sovereign state, and a single Israeli state encompassing the Palestinians would either become undemocratic or no longer Jewish, given the faster growth rate of the Arab population.
特朗普的言论严重偏离20年来的外交正统，引发了关于他的立场可行性的诸多尖锐问题。巴勒斯坦人极其不可能接受任何缺乏主权国家的协议，一个包含巴勒斯坦人的以色列国要么会变得不民主，要么不再是犹太国家，因为阿拉伯人口的增长速度更快。
But even as Trump drastically reoriented U.S. policy, he told Netanyahu to stop building new housing in the West Bank for the moment.
不过，尽管特朗普极大改变了美国政策的方向，但他告诫内塔尼亚胡，要暂停在约旦河西岸修建新住宅。
The president also stressed that Israel would have to be flexible in any future peace talks.
总统还强调，以色列在未来的任何和平谈判中必须保持变通性。
Netanyahu, who nominally supports a two-state solution, quickly embraced Trump’s declaration, saying he preferred to deal with “substance” rather than “labels” in negotiating with the Palestinians.
内塔尼亚胡名义上支持两国解决方案，他很快接受了特朗普的立场，表示他更愿意在与巴勒斯坦人的谈判中解决“实质问题”，而非“标签问题”。
He repeated his two prerequisites — that the Palestinians recognize Israel as a Jewish state and that Israel maintain security control over the entire West Bank. The obstacle to peace, he said, is Palestinian hate, as demonstrated by building statues to those who carry out terrorist attacks and paying their families salaries. “This is the source of the conflict,” he said.
他重述了自己的两个先决条件——巴勒斯坦人承认以色列是一个犹太国家，以色列保持对整个约旦河西岸的安全控制。他表示，和平的障碍是巴勒斯坦人的仇恨，这表现在为进行恐怖主义袭击的人塑雕像，给他们的家属提供薪水。“这是矛盾的根源，”他说。
Trump and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, have been exploring an approach called the outside-in strategy, enlisting Arab states in the region that already have found common cause with Israel against their mutual enemy Iran to help broker a settlement with the Palestinians. But it is not at all clear that Palestinians would ever accept an arrangement that did not leave them with a state of their own.
特朗普和他的女婿、高级顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)探讨过一个由外而内的战略，征募该地区因反对共同敌人伊朗而已经与以色列达成一致的阿拉伯国家帮助与巴勒斯坦人达成一个协议。但人们完全不清楚巴勒斯坦人是否愿意接受不让他们拥有自己国家的任何方案。
Until now, Trump’s team has largely avoided conversations with Palestinian leaders. But Mike Pompeo, the CIA director, met with Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority president, in Ramallah in the West Bank on Tuesday, according to The Associated Press.
直到现在，特朗普的团队大体上避免了与巴勒斯坦领导人进行对话。但是据美联社(The Associated Press)称，周二，中央情报局局长迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)在约旦河西岸的拉姆安拉会见了巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)。