WASHINGTON — Michelle Obama has burned off her date-night meals at Washington’s new generation of acclaimed restaurants by pedaling at SoulCycle. President Obama has shopped for Jonathan Franzen novels with his daughters at local independent bookstores. Obama administration staff members, their barhopping chronicled in the gossip pages, have hit the 14th Street hot spots hard.
华盛顿——约会之夜在华盛顿新一代备受赞誉的餐厅享用美食后，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)用SoulCycle来燃烧卡路里。奥巴马总统和两个女儿在当地的独立书店购买乔纳森‧弗兰岑(Jonathan Franzen)的小说。奥巴马政府的工作人员大举入侵14街人气最旺的去处，在酒吧流连纵饮的新闻出现在八卦页面上，
Decades ago, Washington was broke and run by a mayor best known for smoking crack with a prostitute on a surveillance tape. Neighborhoods had not fully recovered from the 1968 riots, and an aging Georgetown elite still set the tone. The administrations of two Bushes and a Clinton in between hardly had an effect on the city.
几十年前，华盛顿还是个破烂地方，它的市长最出名的事迹是和妓女吸白粉被监控录像拍了下来。居民区自从1968年的骚乱后再也没有完全恢复，给这座城市定调的依然是老迈的乔治城精英。两任布什总统和夹在中间的克林顿领导的政府几乎没对这座城市产生什么影响。
But Mr. Obama’s arrival in 2009 coincided with an urban renaissance. Economic development, federal and private investment, and an influx of highly educated young, gay and diverse professionals gentrified neighborhoods, leading to an explosion in restaurants, bars and cafes. And the Obama family — African-American, youthful, attractive and urbane — were archetypes of a modern city on the upswing.
但奥巴马2009年入主白宫时，正好赶上城市复兴。经济发展、联邦和私人投资以及受过良好教育的年轻人、同性恋和多元的职业人士涌入，居住区开始士绅化，带来餐馆、酒吧和咖啡馆的爆发式增长。奥巴马一家——非裔、年轻、漂亮、儒雅——是一座处在上升势头的现代城市的典型。
What the effect on Washington will be when Donald J. Trump moves into the White House is hard to predict. But many Washingtonians fear the worst. Among them is Vincent Gray, the city’s mayor during much of the Obama administration.
很难预测唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)搬进白宫后会对华盛顿带来什么影响。但很多华盛顿人担心会出现最糟糕的一幕。在奥巴马任内大部分时间里担任华盛顿市长的文森特·格雷(Vincent Gray)便是其中之一。
“I’m worried about people not wanting to come here because of the image they have of the Trump administration,” Mr. Gray said.
“我担心人们会因为对特朗普政府的印象而不愿来这里，”格雷说。
Now a member of the City Council, Mr. Gray said the engagement of Mr. Obama and his family with the city has been “tremendously uplifting.”
现为市议会议员的格雷表示，奥巴马及其家人与这座城市的互动“非常令人振奋”。
“Their presence in the city brought a level of dynamism that just wasn’t there before,” he said.
“他们的出现给这座城市带来了一定程度的活力，以前根本没有，”他说。
By contrast, Mr. Trump seems unlikely to drop in at Oyamel, the Mexican restaurant and Obama favorite owned by José Andrés, a star chef and devoted Trump critic. For that matter, it is even unclear whether Mr. Trump, who has used his new Trump International Hotel as an outpost here, will spend weekends in the White House or in New York. And he is unlikely to feel a debt of gratitude to a city where Hillary Clinton won 93 percent of the vote.
相比之下，特朗普似乎不太可能顺道光顾奥巴马最喜欢的Oyamel墨西哥餐厅。该餐厅的老板何塞·安德鲁(José Andrés)是一位明星厨师，也是特朗普的坚定批评者。而在这个问题上，以新落成的特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)为华盛顿落脚点的特朗普，周末会在白宫还是纽约都很难说。对一个希拉里·克林顿赢得93%选票的城市，他可能也不会觉得有什么亏欠。
“D.C. is going to take a really hard hit, culturally, socially, everything. We were really finding our footing; we weren’t second to New York,” said Jazmine Johnson, a graphic designer who said she now planned to move to New York.
“哥伦比亚特区真的会遭受重创，从文化到社会的方方面面。之前我们真的是找到了自信，我们不弱于纽约，”自称现在打算搬去纽约的美术设计师贾丝明·约翰逊(Jazmine Johnson)说。
Ms. Johnson, 25, was speaking in the Coffee Bar, a fashionable cafe on M Street where Mr. Trump’s pseudo-anthem, “You Can’t Always Get What You Want,” played in the background. In the aftermath of Mr. Trump’s election victory on Tuesday, she sought solace in caffeine.
25岁的约翰逊是在M街热闹的咖啡馆Coffee Bar说出这番话的，背景音乐是特朗普的伪颂歌《你想要的不一定总能得到》(You Can't Always Get What You Want)。特朗普周二胜选后，约翰逊试图在咖啡因中寻求慰藉。
Others around town signed up for free tension-relieving sessions at yoga studios, or meditated on emails from their progressive rabbis reminding them of the Jewish mantra “Od lo avda tikvateinu,” or, “We have not yet lost our hope.” Reports abounded of federal workers and nonprofit employees crying at their desks, scanning the web for out-of-town rentals or accepting the free hugs on offer in Farragut Square.
城里其他人报名参加瑜伽馆的心情放松课程，或是看着改革派的拉比发来的电子邮件陷入沉思。那些邮件提醒他们不要忘记犹太人的祷语“我们尚未失去希望”。新闻报道中时常见到联邦政府工作人员和非营利组织的员工在办工桌前哭泣，在网上寻找郊外出租屋，或是去法拉格特广场上接受免费的拥抱。
At least some Washington institutions are likely to remain shockproof. The lucrative real estate market seems to be one.
华盛顿至少部分机构可能会保持不受影响。赚钱的房地产市场似乎便是其中之一。
Andrew C. Florance, a Washington resident and founder of CoStar, a provider of data, marketing and analytic services to the commercial real estate industry, said he expected a wave of “glitzier” New Yorkers — “the Delta Shuttle crew” — to join the Trump administration and quickly become part of the city’s lobbying ranks and downtown neighborhoods. “It will be a terrific real estate market,” he said.
华盛顿居民、为商业房地产行业提供数据、营销和分析服务的供应商CoStar的创始人安德鲁·C·弗洛兰斯(Andrew C. Florance)预计，一波“浮夸”的纽约人——“达美快线一族”——会加入特朗普政府，并迅速成为该市的游说大军和城区社区的一部分。“这将是一个巨大的房地产市场，”他说。
Lobbying firms on K Street are already treating Mr. Trump’s election as a bonanza and are gearing up for more work. Conservative think tanks are looking forward to serving up new ideas to Mr. Trump and a Republican Congress.
K街上的游说公司已经视特朗普的当选为一个发财的机会，正在为工作量增加做准备。保守派智库期待为特朗普和共和党控制的国会奉上新的点子。
James Wallner, a vice president for research at the Heritage Foundation, said Mr. Trump’s election was met with high-fives. “Trump is a change agent,” Mr. Wallner said. “As long as everyone is trying to change Washington, that’s all that matters.”
传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)负责研究工作的副会长詹姆斯·沃尔纳(James Wallner)说，有人击掌庆祝特朗普当选。“特朗普是改革推动者，”沃尔纳说。“只要人人都努力改变华盛顿，这才是最重要的。”
Liberal and environmental groups are determined to stay and fight. Debbie Sease, who heads lobbying for the Sierra Club, presided over a gut-punched office of employees who took silent Metro rides into work last week and hung “free hugs” signs on their desks. She expects an invigorated resistance to come to Washington, bringing moral outrage as well as sophisticated palates.
自由派和环保团体决心留下来，战斗到底。上周，在塞拉俱乐部(Sierra Club)负责游说事务的黛比·西瑟(Debbie Sease)的办公室里，士气受到打击的工作人员沉默地乘坐地铁上班，并在各自的桌子上挂上了“免费拥抱”的牌子。她预计人们会重新对华盛顿这座城市心生抗拒，不愿意再为它带来道义上的愤慨，以及精致的品味。
“I’d be surprised if all the good restaurants disappear or become steakhouses,” she said.
“如果所有的好餐厅都消失了或是变成牛排馆，我会感到惊讶，”她说。
Mr. Trump must now populate the federal government with new appointees, but some members of his inner circle are already entrenched in Washington. Stephen K. Bannon, whom Mr. Trump named chief strategist and senior counsel on Sunday, lives, works and entertains out of a 14-room townhouse near the Supreme Court. David Bossie, another key aide to Mr. Trump, runs Citizens United, a conservative advocacy group, out of a Capitol Hill townhouse.
特朗普现在必须为联邦政府任命新成员，但其核心集团中的部分人已经身在华盛顿了。被特朗普在周日任命为首席策略师和高级顾问的史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的生活、工作和娱乐都离不开最高法院附近一栋有14个房间的联排别墅。特朗普的另一个亲信戴维·波西(David Bossie)在国会山的一栋联排别墅里管理保守派倡导团体“联合公民”(Citizens United)。
And there will be newcomers like Richard B. Spencer, who took a break from reveling with other ecstatic supporters in the lobby bar of the Trump International Hotel on election night to declare the party over for the Washington establishment.
这座城市还将迎来像理查德·B·斯潘塞(Richard B. Spencer)这样的新面孔。在大选之夜，他在特朗普国际酒店大堂吧里的一场特朗普支持者狂欢中宣布，华盛顿建制势力的宴席终于散了。
“We are winners and we have displaced them,” said Mr. Spencer, a leader of the “alt-right” movement who champions white identity politics and is currently looking for Beltway headquarters for his movement.
“我们是赢家，我们取代了他们，”斯潘塞说。他是“另类右翼”运动的领导人之一，倡导白人身份政治，目前正在首都环线上为该运动的总部选址。
He added, “We want to become the new establishment.”
他接着说，“我们想成为新的建制势力。”