WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald J. Trump threatened on Monday to end President Obama’s push to forge diplomatic relations and relax sanctions against Cuba, suggesting that he might wipe away two years of executive action to strengthen ties if he cannot reach “a better deal” for both Cuba and the United States.
华盛顿——候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)本周一发出威胁，要结束奥巴马总统推动的与古巴恢复外交关系和放宽对其制裁的进程，并表示如果他无法为古巴和美国达成一个“更好的协议”，可能会取消两年来改善两国关系的行政法令。
In a post on Twitter that came three days after the death of Fidel Castro, the father of Cuba’s revolution and embodiment of a half-century of suspicion and hostility between the United States and Cuba, Mr. Trump gave no details about what kind of changes he would seek in Mr. Obama’s policy.
在古巴革命之父、象征着美古之间持续半个世纪的怀疑和敌意的菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)逝世三天后，特朗普在Twitter上发布了这个消息，但并未细说他想如何改变奥巴马的政策。
But the comment hinted that the president-elect, who has been critical of the shift toward greater engagement between Americans and Cubans, is considering reinstating restrictions on commerce, trade and financial transactions that Mr. Obama has stripped away since he announced two years ago that he and President Raúl Castro had agreed to normalize relations.
特朗普曾批评美国和古巴增加往来的做法，这篇推文暗示，他正在考虑恢复对古巴的商业、贸易和金融交易限制。奥巴马两年前和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)赞同实现两国关系正常化之后，逐步取消了这些限制。
He has already installed Maurico Claver-Carone, a Cuban-American who has been a harsh critic of Mr. Obama’s opening, on his transition team for the Treasury Department, which has issued several rounds of regulations to remove impediments for United States companies and individuals seeking to do business with Cuba and travel there.
他已经任命了毛里西奥·克拉韦尔-卡罗内(Mauricio Claver-Carone)为过渡团队中的财政部成员，此人是古巴裔美国人，曾严厉抨击奥巴马缓解两国关系的做法。奥巴马发布过几轮条例，试图清除美国公司和个人与古巴做生意或前往那里旅行时遇到的障碍。
Mr. Trump’s advisers were vague about what his approach would be on Cuba, telling reporters in a conference call that Mr. Trump would address the issue when he assumed office.
对于特朗普在古巴问题上的做法，他的顾问含糊其辞地在电话会议上对记者说，他上任后会处理这个问题。
“To be clear, the president-elect wants to see freedom in Cuba for Cubans,” said Jason Miller, a spokesman.
“明确地说，特朗普希望看到古巴人在古巴享有自由，”发言人贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)说。
But Mr. Trump has signaled already that his position will be starkly different than that of Mr. Obama, who has argued that isolating Cuba for decades had failed to force changes in the autocratic government there and it was time to forge closer ties, including by re-establishing diplomatic relations, loosening sanctions, and ultimately repealing the embargo — a step that would take a vote of Congress.
但是特朗普已经表明，他的立场将与奥巴马截然不同，奥巴马曾经说过，孤立古巴已有几十年了，一直未能迫使那里的独裁政府做出改变，现在是时候建立更紧密的关系了，需要恢复外交关系，放宽制裁，最终废除禁运——这一步骤将由国会来表决。
Because much of the thaw has been accomplished through executive action, even some Obama administration officials concede that it is highly vulnerable to reversal. Mr. Trump could, for example, order the State Department to review its decision last year to remove Cuba from the list of state sponsors of terrorism, or suspend diplomatic relations that were resumed last summer. Unraveling the complex set of regulations that tore down obstacles to trade and commerce with Cuba could take longer and be more challenging.
由于大部分举措都是通过行政命令来完成的，即便是奥巴马的一些政府官员也承认，这很容易遭到逆转。例如特朗普可以命令国务院审查去年将古巴从“资助恐怖主义的国家”名单中移除的决定，或暂停去年夏天恢复的外交关系。而撤销一系列消除与古巴进行商贸活动的障碍的法规，可能需要更长时间，难度也会更大。
Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, argued on Monday that Mr. Trump would have a hard time reversing a policy that has already yielded business deals that have bolstered American companies and benefited the people of both countries.
白宫新闻秘书乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)周一表示，奥巴马的政策已经促成了一些商业交易，令美国公司和两国人民受惠，特朗普将很难扭转这样的政策。
He noted that there would soon be 110 daily flights from the United States to Cuba, and that cruise, tour and hotel operators had already invested significant sums in building the infrastructure to support those visits. Citizens of both Cuba and the United States support the new policy overwhelmingly, he added.
他指出，很快每天就会有110个从美国到古巴的航班，而且邮轮、旅游和酒店经营者都已投入大量资金来建设基础设施，为这些行程提供方便。古巴和美国的公民中，绝大多数人都支持这项新政策。
“So unrolling all of that is much more complicated than just the stroke of a pen,” Mr. Earnest said, adding, “It’s just not as simple as one tweet might make it seem.”
“所以撤销这一切远比用笔划一条杠复杂得多，”欧内斯特说，“这可不是从一条推文里看起来那么简单的事情。”