WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Monday that the country needs to take a look at whether more mental health institutions need to be opened to treat people with mental illness and avert mass shootings.
华盛顿——周一，特朗普总统说美国需要看看是否开设更多的精神卫生机构，来治疗那些患有精神疾病的人士，以避免大规模枪击事件的发生。
The president also said he would have run into the South Florida high school where 17 students and faculty members were killed in a mass shooting, even if he was not armed, and he criticized law enforcement officials who were at the scene of the school shooting but did nothing to try to stop it. He called their performances “frankly disgusting.”
总统还说，即便手无寸铁，他也会冲进那所17名学生及教职员工在一起大规模枪击事件中丧生的南佛罗里达高中。他还批评了当时在校园枪击案现场，但没有试图做任何事阻止凶手的执法人员，称他们的表现“完全令人作呕”。
“You don’t know until you test it, but I think, I really believe I would have run in there even if I didn’t have a weapon,” the president said.
“没经受过考验，你是不知道这一点的，但我觉得，我真的认为我会冲进去，即使身上没有武器，”总统说。
Mr. Trump’s public remarks came during a meeting with the nation’s governors, in part to discuss school safety after the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.
特朗普的这番公开言论是在一个与各州州长的会议上作出的，这次会议的部分内容是讨论佛罗里达州帕克兰的马乔里·斯通曼·道格拉斯高中(Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School)枪击事件发生后，学校的安全问题。
“We’re going to have to start talking about mental institutions,” Mr. Trump said, adding that there was a time when it was easier to have people who acted like a “boiler ready to explode” committed to mental institutions.
“我们必须要开始讨论精神卫生机构的事宜了，”特朗普说道；他还补充，过去把那些行为举止像“马上要爆炸的锅炉”一样的人送入精神卫生机构会更容易一些。
The recent shooting has reopened the contentious debate on gun safety and Second Amendment protections. Mr. Trump has proposed arming school staff who receive special training, improving background checks for gun purchases and raising the minimum age from 18 to 21 to buy assault rifles. On Monday, he said the closure of many of the mental institutions across the country needed to be revisited and that the institutions could potentially treat more people with mental illness.
最近的枪击事件重启了关于枪支安全及宪法第二修正案保护方面充满争议的讨论。特朗普提出给那些接受过特殊训练的教职员工配备武器，加强枪支购买的背景调查，以及将购买突击步枪的最低年龄限制从18岁提高到21岁。周一，他表示，需要重新考量全国各地多家精神卫生机构的关闭，并且说这些机构可以治疗更多患有精神疾病的人。
“You could nab somebody like this,” Mr. Trump said of the Florida gunman, Nikolas Cruz, citing the scores of warning signs that Mr. Cruz was troubled. “You can’t arrest him, I guess, because he hasn’t done anything,” Mr. Trump said.
“你能拿下这种人了，”特朗普说到了佛罗里达枪击案枪手尼古拉斯·克鲁兹(Nikolas Cruz)，他引述了大量表明克鲁兹有问题的迹象。“可能你不能逮捕他，因为他还什么都没做过，”特朗普说。
Mr. Trump also said he would not wait for Congress to act and he would ban equipment that can turn semiautomatic rifles into automatic ones through executive action.
特朗普还说，他不会等待国会采取行动，并且表示他会通过行政举措，禁止能够将半自动步枪变为自动步枪的设备。
Mr. Trump said he had lunch with senior officials in the National Rifle Association, a powerful lobbying group that has been successful in defeating gun control measures. “They want to do something,” Mr. Trump said of the N.R.A.
特朗普说，他与强大的游说组织美国步枪协会（National Rifle Association，简称NRA）的高层官员共进过午餐，该协会曾成功击败过枪支管控措施。“他们想做点事情，”特朗普提到NRA时说。