WASHINGTON — Kellyanne Conway, one of President Trump’s top advisers, may have violated federal ethics rules on Thursday by urging people to buy fashion products marketed by Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter, legal experts said.
华盛顿——特朗普总统的高级顾问之一凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)周四力劝人们购买总统女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)营销的时尚产品，这有可能违反了联邦道德规则。
“Go buy Ivanka’s stuff is what I would say,” Ms. Conway, whose title is counselor to the president, said in an interview with Fox News. “I’m going to give a free commercial here: Go buy it today everybody, you can find it online.”
“去买伊万卡的东西，我会这么讲，”康维在接受福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)采访时说，她的职衔是总统顾问。“我会在这里播一条免费广告：请大家今天都去买，在网上可以找到。”
Federal ethics rules state that an employee of the government’s executive branch “shall not use his public office for his own private gain, for the endorsement of any product, service or enterprise, or for the private gain of friends, relatives, or persons with whom the employee is affiliated in a nongovernmental capacity.” Legal experts said Ms. Conway appeared to have violated those rules.
联邦道德规则规定，政府行政部门的雇员“不应利用公职为自己谋取私利，不能为任何产品、服务或企业背书，也不能为朋友、亲属或这位工作人员在政府以外与之存在关联的人谋取私利。”法律专家表示，康维似乎违反了这些规定。
“You couldn’t think of a clearer example of violating the ban of using your government position as kind of a walking billboard for products or services offered by a private individual,” said Laurence Tribe, a professor of constitutional law at Harvard. “She is attempting quite crudely to enrich Ivanka and therefore the president’s family.”
“你找不到比它更明显的违反这条禁令的例子，也就是把你的政府职位当做移动广告牌，为私人的产品或服务做宣传，”哈佛大学研究宪法的教授劳伦斯·特赖布(Laurence Tribe)说。“她在试图非常直截了当地增进伊万卡的利益，由此让总统一家受惠。”
Ms. Conway’s comments came a day after Mr. Trump used his personal and White House Twitter accounts to lash out at Nordstrom, the department store chain, for dropping his daughter’s line, saying that the company had treated her “so unfairly.” The comments raised the latest in a series of ethical questions about potential conflicts between his official role and his family’s business interests.
就在康维发出上述评论一天前，特朗普利用他个人和白宫的Twitter账号对下架他女儿产品线的百货连锁诺德斯特龙(Nordstrom)进行了猛烈抨击，称这家公司对她“不公平”。这些言论引发了有关他的公职与家族商业利益之间存在潜在冲突的质疑，是一系列此类伦理问题中的最新一例。
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington and Public Citizen, nonprofit advocacy group, asked the Office of Government Ethics to investigate whether Ms. Conway’s comments went over the line.
位于华盛顿的团体公民责任与道德(Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics)和非营利倡导组织公众公民(Public Citizen)要求政府道德事务办公室(Office of Government Ethics)调查康维的言论是否过界。
“This seems to us to be about as clear-cut a violation as you can find,” said Noah Bookbinder, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility.
“对我们来说，这似乎是你能找到的最明确的违规，”公民责任与道德的执行总监诺阿·布克班德(Noah Bookbinder)说。
Lawrence M. Noble, formerly the top lawyer and ethics officer at the Federal Election Commission, said the ethics rules exempted the president and vice president, but not other Executive Office employees such as Ms. Conway.
曾担任联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)首席律师、道德督察员的劳伦斯·M·诺布尔(Lawrence M. Noble)表示，总统和副总统可以不受道德原则约束，但包括康维在内的其他行政部门工作人员则不能豁免。
“I think this is a violation, but I’d like to hear an argument as to why it’s not,” said Mr. Noble, general counsel of the Campaign Legal Center, a nonprofit advocacy group. “She was speaking on behalf of the White House, in her official position, which makes it more serious.”
“我认为这是违规，但我愿意听别人讲讲它为什么不违规的理由，”非营利倡导组织竞选法律中心(Campaign Legal Center)法律总顾问诺布尔说。“她是以官方立场代表白宫在发言，这让问题变得更加严重。”
Ordinarily, such conduct would be handled with a letter of reprimand, though it could lead to termination, he said. In rare cases, it could be referred to the Justice Department for civil or even criminal penalties.
他表示，这样的行为通常会被发训诫函处理，不过它也有可能导致解雇。在比较少见的例子里，可能会被移交司法部，进行民事乃至刑事处罚。
Richard W. Painter, who served as the chief ethics counsel to President George W. Bush, said Ms. Conway’s conduct would not have been tolerated in that administration. He said he would not offer a judgment on whether she had broken the rules, but he voiced dismay at the message the White House was sending.
曾担任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统首席伦理律师的理查德·W·佩恩特(Richard W. Painter)表示，他所在的那届政府不会容忍康维这种行为。他表示，他不会就她是否违规发表判断，但他对白宫正在发出的信号表示失望。
“The events of the past week demonstrate that there is no intent on the part of the president, his family or the White House staff to make meaningful distinctions between his official capacity as president and the Trump family business,” he said. Mr. Painter said of Mr. Trump’s aides, “Instead of trying to push him back on this, they’re jumping in this and shilling for the businesses alongside him.”
“上周的事件证明，总统、其家人及白宫工作人员无意在他作为总统的官方身份和特朗普家族生意之间做出严肃的区分，”他说。在谈及特朗普的助手时，佩恩特表示，他们“没有竭力遏制他那种倾向，反倒跳进来，和他一起招揽生意。”
Nordstrom, one of several retailers to reduce or eliminate its ties to Ms. Trump’s line of clothes, jewelry and accessories, said it was purely a business decision based on sales performance.
作为削弱或切断自己与伊万卡·特朗普服装、珠宝和配饰产品线关系的几个零售商之一，诺德斯特龙表示这纯粹是基于销售表现做出的商业决策。
The White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, said on Wednesday that Mr. Trump was responding to “an attack on his daughter.” It was not clear if he was referring to a specific action by Nordstrom or to calls to boycott businesses bearing the Trump name, and he did not elaborate.
白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)周三表示，特朗普是在就“针对她女儿的攻击”做出回应。目前还不清楚他指的是诺德斯特龙的特定行为，还是指抵制所有带有特朗普名字的生意的呼吁。他并未详细说明。
Like Mr. Spicer, Ms. Conway said that Ms. Trump was being targeted by people who disliked her father. “They’re using her,” she said, “to get to him.”
跟斯派塞一样，康维表示伊万卡是被不喜欢她父亲的人当作攻击目标。“他们在利用她，”她说，“目的是打击他。”
The president and his daughter have pledged to distance themselves from their various businesses. Ms. Trump has stepped away from her leadership role at the Ivanka Trump brand, and she and her father have resigned as executives at the Trump Organization.
总统和他女儿曾承诺与自己的各种生意拉开距离。伊万卡已经不再担任伊万卡·特朗普品牌的领导角色，她和她父亲也辞掉了特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的高管职位。
But the president and Ms. Trump still maintain strong financial ties to their companies. Mr. Trump will continue to receive reports on the financial performance of the Trump Organization. And Ms. Trump still retains a financial interest in her brand.
但这位总统和伊万卡·特朗普依然与他们的公司保持着紧密的财务关系。特朗普会继续收取有关特朗普集团财务表现的报告。伊万卡·特朗普也在自己的品牌中保有财务利益。
Much as her father has over the years, Ms. Trump licenses her name to various partners that manufacture and market her products. Macy’s, the country’s largest department store chain, sells her shoes and clothes.
就像她父亲在过去数年里那样，伊万卡也将自己的名字交给各种生产和销售她的产品的合作伙伴进行特许经营。美国最大的百货连锁梅西百货(Macy’s)就销售着她的鞋子和服装。