Elizabeth Azen, a co-owner of the clothing line Dynasty — emphasis on the last two syllables — has designs on dressing the women who turn out to protest at the Women’s March on Washington. A few days before the event, she was busy filling online orders for bright hats inscribed with the phrase “Already Great.” Other hats, bright red beanies, just feature a boldface “NO.”
黛纳斯蒂（Dynasty，发音时要强调最后两个音节，使之听起来与die nasty[恶毒死了]谐音——译注）服装系列的共同所有者伊丽莎白·雅曾(Elizabeth Azen)为前来参加“女性向华盛顿进军”(Women’s March on Washington)抗议大游行的人设计了服装。在游行即将发生的前几天里，她正为满足网上的订单忙得不可开交，有人订购了上面印有“Already Great”（已经伟大）字样的颜色鲜艳的帽子，还有人订购了只印着粗体的“NO”（不）的大红色无檐便帽。
The accessories are, she said, “a typographic gut reaction” to the results of the November election, an enduring symbol of which was President-elect Donald J. Trump’s red “Make America Great Again” hat. “Who gets to own a color?” the Brooklyn-based designer mused.
她说，这些配饰，是对去年11月大选结果“在印刷形式上的本能反应”，大选期间一直流行的象征是候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普的印有“Make America Great Again”（让美国恢复伟大荣光）字样的红色帽子。“谁能够拥有一种颜色呢？”这位家住布鲁克林的设计师若有所思地问道。
On Saturday, hundreds of thousands of women are expected to visit the nation’s capital to march against the new administration of Mr. Trump. There will be plenty of signs — and, presumably, plenty of shouts — but the clothes and accessories that the marchers wear, from bright red beanies to peace pins to cat-eared knit hats, may also do some talking. Though there is an official Women’s March hoodie, created by Bob Bland, a fashion designer in New York and the event’s co-chairman, and sold through the march’s website for $55, a number of other designers and craftswomen have been inspired to shape their own forms of wearable protest since the organizing began.
本周六，预计将有数十万名妇女前来美国首都参加抗议特朗普新政府的大游行。虽然游行中将会有大量的标语牌，可能也会有很多的高喊，但游行者穿的衣服和戴的配饰——从大红色的无檐小便帽、到和平胸针、再到带有猫耳朵的针织帽子——也许也能表达些东西。虽然由纽约时装设计师和组织这次活动的共同召集人之一鲍勃·布兰德(Bob Bland)设计了官方服装“女性大游行带兜帽短上衣”(Women’s March hoodie)，并在游行活动网站上以55美元（合378元人民币）的价格出售，但自从筹备活动开始以来，许多其他设计师和擅长手工艺的女性受到启发，打造了各自形式的表达抗议的可穿戴物品。
Ms. Azen said she and her business partner, Jessica Wingate, were driven to make their hats by a desire to create “statements that can last in people’s minds and become a part of the vernacular.”
雅曾说，她和她的业务合作伙伴杰西卡·温盖特(Jessica Wingate)在一种欲望的驱使下制作了她们的帽子，她们要创造“能在人们心中持续下去、并成为人们常用语言一部分的声明”。
“We really need that right now,” she said.
“我们现在真的很需要这个，”她说。
For American women, clothing has always provided a means of visual resistance, beginning with those who believed in dress reform, or the right to wear pants, in the 1800s. At the 1963 March on Washington, hundreds of black women opted for denim, overalls and natural hair, resisting sartorial protocol and rejecting expectations. When women showed up at the polls in pantsuits last November, they were not only referring to activists of the past but expressing their support for the first female presidential candidate nominated by a major party.
对美国妇女来说，从19世纪初的那些提倡服装改革或“穿裤子权利”的人开始，服装一直是一种提供视觉抵抗的手段。在1963年3月的“向华盛顿进军”大游行中，有数百名黑人妇女选择了牛仔裤、工装服和自然的头发，以表达对着装标准和期望的拒绝。当去年11月，女性穿白色裤装去投票时，她们不仅模仿了过去的活动人士，而且也表达了对一个主要党派提名的首位女性总统候选人的支持。
This march will not be about pantsuits, nor have there been many calls to wear white, the suffragists’ signature. Instead, more literal sartorial messaging seems to be in style.
这次大游行不是关于裤装的，也没有多少人呼吁穿白色，那是争取妇女选举权运动的颜色。与之相反，用更自由的着装方式传递信息似乎颇为时尚。
In the past, textiles alone — denim, plaid, leather — were most often used to telegraph a woman’s politics and reject notions of what femininity should look like, according to Tanisha Ford, an associate professor of history at the University of Delaware and the author of “Liberated Threads: Black Women, Style, and the Global Politics of Soul.” Now text-based protest apparel, from Dior’s “We Should All Be Feminist” shirts to $2 “Nasty Woman” pins on Etsy, is on the rise, she said.
特拉华大学历史系副教授、《解放的服装：黑人女性、时尚，以及灵魂的全球政治》(Liberated Threads: Black Women, Style, and the Global Politics of Soul)一书的作者坦妮莎·福特(Tanisha Ford)认为，以前，表达女性政治观念、拒绝接受女性气质应该是什么样的最长用的方式只有纺织品——牛仔布、格子布、皮革等。现在，基于文本的抗议服装，从迪奥的“我们都应该是女权主义者”衬衫到Etsy上以2美元出售的“恶毒女人”胸针，正变得越来越常见，她说。
We live in a digital culture, she noted. Words photograph well.
我们生活在一个数字文化时代，她指出。文字很上相。
“I think one of the benefits of using clothing as a sign of one’s politics is that it allows other people who may not get to places like Washington, D.C., to show that they are in solidarity” with a movement like the Women’s March, Ms. Ford said.
“我觉得，把服装作为政治标志的好处之一是，它让其他可能去不了像华盛顿特区这样的地方的人，也能表达她们”与像妇女大游行这样的运动“团结一致”的心声，福特说。
Can what you wear be a form of substantive activism? Ms. Azen thinks so. She thinks people have always used the clothing they wear to send a message about who they are and what they believe.
你的穿戴能作为实际行动的一种形式吗？雅曾认为如此。她认为，人们一直都在用他们穿的衣服来表达关于他们是谁、他们相信什么。
“You can choose to wear Levi’s on your pocket or Michael Kors on your bag,” Ms. Azen said.
“你可以选择口袋上有李维斯(Levi’s)标记的服装，或选择用迈克尔·科尔斯(Michael Kors)的手袋，”雅曾说。
She paused: “Or you can choose to make a statement.” Literally.
她停顿了一会儿接着说：“或者你可以选择发表一个声明。”用文字的形式。
In an election season some say was ruled by sound bites — “Nasty Woman” and “Bad Hombres” — any enterprising observer could turn off-the-cuff utterances into words of marketable protest. Still, one of the most conspicuous accessories at the march may be wordless. The Pussyhat Project, an online collective of knitters, is trying to crowdsource 1.1 million bright pink cat-eared hats for people attending the march to wear.
在一个某些人称为被诸如“恶毒女人”和“坏男人”这样的短语主导的大选季节，任何有创业精神的观察者都可以把未经思考说出的话转化为有销路的抗议之词。不过，这次大游行中最显眼的配饰之一可能不是语言的。织毛线者的网上合作社正在组织的猫帽计划(The Pussyhat Project)，试图用众包的方式为参加游行的人编织110万个鲜粉色的猫耳帽。
The hat is a pointed play on Mr. Trump’s past comments, which became public in a leaked “Access Hollywood” recording, about grabbing women by their genitals.
这种帽子是针对特朗普曾经作出的言论的一个尖锐的文字游戏，特朗普关于抓女性生殖器的话被一段泄漏出来的《走进好莱坞》录音公开。
With more than 60,000 knitted so far, Jayna Zweiman, a founder of the project, said she wants women in bright pink hats to be a strong visual signal on the day of the march.
该项目的创始人杰娜·茨韦曼(Jayna Zweiman)说，到目前为止已织出了6万多个帽子，她希望在大游行那天，头戴这种明亮的粉红色帽子的女性将是一种强烈的视觉信号。
“We thought about that drone view from above,” Ms. Zweiman, 38, said in an interview.
“我们考虑了无人飞行器看到的那种俯视效果，”38岁的茨韦曼在接受采访时说。
Then there are those accessories that prioritize American unity over statements of subversion. Kate Lind and Nate Stevens created the website Pincause to sell $5 pins for the march. They live in Ann Arbor, Mich., where they often run into people who voted for Mr. Trump.
还有一些强调美国统一、而不是表达颠覆的配饰。凯特·林德(Kate Lind)和内特·史蒂文斯(Nate Stevens)创建了一个销售5美元胸针的Pincause网站。他们住在密歇根州的安娜堡，在那里他们经常遇到投特朗普票的人。
Their pin, which showcases the American sign language symbol for “I Love You,” is meant to symbolize a desire to heal the gulf between those with opposing beliefs. Over 10,000 have been sold.
他们设计的胸针展示了美国手语的“我爱你”符号，象征着持反对信念的人能愈合他们之间的鸿沟的愿望。目前已经售出了1万多枚。
“People are very excited to be able to gather around something positive,” Ms. Lind said. She added that she has been hearing from customers who “don’t have this desire to, like, scream and yell at people.”
“人们非常高兴能够团结在一种积极的东西周围，”林德说。她还说，她从客户那里听到，他们“没有对着别人大喊大叫的愿望”。
Unity may be easier said than worn. Plans for the Women’s March have been fraught with discussions about race and the need for a brand of feminism that reaches women of all backgrounds. What women choose to wear to communicate their myriad beliefs on the day of the march is likely to be as multifaceted as the issues involved.
团结可能说来容易，表现在穿戴上难。妇女大游行的计划充满了关于种族、以及需要有一种能让各种背景的女性接受的女权主义品牌的讨论。大游行那天，女性选择穿戴什么来传达她们各种各样的信念，很可能像所涉及的问题一样有很多的方面。
“I don’t think that there is one symbol that can hold that diversity of political thought,” Ms. Ford, the author, said. “I don’t think there should have to be.”
“我不觉得有一种能体现政治思想多样性的符号，”前面提到的作者福特说。“这样一个符号的存在并不是必须的。”