WASHINGTON — In naming Stephen K. Bannon to a senior White House post, President-elect Donald J. Trump has elevated the hard-right nationalist movement that Mr. Bannon has nurtured for years from the fringes of American politics to its very heart, a remarkable shift that has further intensified concern about the new administration’s direction.
华盛顿——通过钦点史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)出任白宫高级职位，候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)将班农推动多年的极右翼民族主义运动从美国政坛边缘提升到了核心位置，这一重大转变让人愈发忧心于新政府将走向何方。
The provocative news and opinion website that Mr. Bannon ran, Breitbart News, has repeatedly published articles linking migrants to the spread of disease. Its authors have criticized politicians who do not support a religious test for immigrants to screen out potential jihadists. And it has promoted stories that try to tie Huma Abedin, a top aide to Hillary Clinton who is Muslim, to Islamic militants.
班农以前运营的新闻及观点网站布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)颇具煽动性，多次发表把移民和疾病的传播联系起来的文章。该网站某些文章的作者，批评过不支持对移民开展宗教测试、以便筛除潜在圣战者的政治人物。它还推介了一些试图把希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的高级助手胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)和伊斯兰激进分子联系起来的文章。阿贝丁是一名穆斯林。
In an interview, Mr. Bannon, 62, rejected what he called the “ethno-nationalist” tendencies of some in the movement. His interest in populism and American nationalism, he said, has to do with curbing what he sees as the corrosive effects of globalization. And he believes his enemies are misstating his views and those of many Trump followers.
现年62岁的班农在接受采访时，对这一运动的某些参与者身上存在他口中的“种族民族主义”倾向予以了批驳。他说，他对民粹主义和美国民族主义的兴趣，在于限制其眼中的全球化的腐蚀效应。此外，他认为他的敌人们正在歪曲他的观点以及特朗普的许多支持者的看法。
“These people are patriots,” he said. “They love their country. They just want their country taken care of.”
“这些人是爱国者，”他说。“他们热爱自己的国家。他们只是希望自己的国家被照管好。”
He added, “It’s not that some people on the margins, as in any movement, aren’t bad guys — racists, anti-Semites. But that’s irrelevant.”
他还表示，“跟其他运动一样，不是说这项运动的一些边缘人物不是坏人——种族主义者、反犹太主义者。但这无关紧要。”
Mr. Bannon’s ascent has quickly become the focus of Mr. Trump’s critics, who broadly condemned the choice as divisive, if not racist, on Monday. But it was also a victory of head-spinning dimensions for Mr. Bannon. When he joined Mr. Trump’s sputtering presidential campaign in August, he insisted to his friends that even if Mr. Trump lost, he could at least mitigate any damage to the nationalist movement, which he helped fuel as the head of Breitbart.
周一，班农的上位很快就被批评特朗普的人士当成了靶子，他们普遍斥之为带有割裂性的选择，如果不是带有种族主义色彩的话。但对班农来说，这也是一场令人头晕目眩的胜利。今年8月份加入特朗普那个一路磕磕绊绊的竞选团队时，他向友人强调，就算特朗普输掉大选，他至少可以帮助减轻民族主义运动所受的损害——他曾以布莱巴特新闻网站负责人的身份为该运动推波助澜。
Instead, that nationalist movement — it has promoted or enabled anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim and racist sentiments — will now have a champion at Mr. Trump’s side in the West Wing. Mr. Bannon will have the opportunity to shape domestic and foreign policy for a president who is taking office with few positions detailed.
而现在，这个助长了反移民、反穆斯林和种族主义情绪，或者为它们提供温床的运动，将在特朗普身边、在白宫西配楼里拥有一位倡导人士。班农有机会帮助一位即将上任、但尚未敲定绝大多数职位的人选的总统制定内政外交政策。
The place that Mr. Bannon will occupy in the new administration, as senior counselor and chief strategist to the president, also elevates someone whose mission in politics has been to tear down institutions, not run them, to one of the most powerful roles in the government.
班农将担任新总统的高级顾问和首席战略官，在新政府中的位置会让这个一直把拆毁体制而非掌管体制当成政治使命的人，崛起为政府中最具影响力的人物之一。
Mr. Bannon’s appointment was intended to be a reassuring signal to the vocal and restive part of Mr. Trump’s populist, anti-Washington base that is suspicious of power and anyone who holds it. Mr. Trump is their champion, but Mr. Bannon is their check against the Washington establishment and any efforts it makes to soften the new president’s resolve.
在秉持民粹主义理念和反华盛顿立场的特朗普支持者当中，有一群言辞激烈、躁动不安的人，对权力和任何手握权力者都充满怀疑。对班农的任命意在向这些人传递一个安抚性信号。特朗普是他们的领军人物，而班农是他们制约华盛顿建制派及其旨在削弱新总统决心的所有努力的棋子。
Mr. Bannon has told people in Mr. Trump’s inner circle that the new administration will have a short window of time to push its agenda through and should focus first on the priorities that are expected to be the most contentious.
班农曾告诉特朗普的心腹，新政府得在很短的时间窗口内推动其议程获得通过，应该把重心放在据预计最具争议性的优先事项上。
His influence may be felt initially on the Trump administration’s approach to issues like immigration and government ethics reform, which, as chief executive of the Trump campaign, he helped shape as central elements of Mr. Trump’s message. Mr. Bannon, whose career has included jobs as a Navy officer, a Goldman Sachs banker and the chairman of Breitbart, is expected to be an unrelenting advocate of many of Mr. Trump’s most aggressive plans on immigration. That involves stopping the immigration of Syrian refugees, deporting undocumented immigrants with criminal records and devoting more resources to securing the border.
他的影响力起初或许会透过特朗普政府应对移民、政府伦理改革等议题的方法表现出来。作为特朗普竞选团队的首席执行官，他帮助把这些议题塑造成了特朗普传达出的信息的核心要素。据预计，曾经当过海军军官、高盛(Goldman Sachs)银行家、布莱巴特新闻网站董事长的班农，将不屈不挠地推动特朗普的许多最为激进的移民问题解决方案。其中包括阻止叙利亚难民移民美国，驱逐有犯罪记录的非法移民，以及投入更多资源确保边境安全无虞。
He has reassured those close to him that he will maintain the direct line to Mr. Trump that he enjoyed during the campaign and that he will be on equal footing with Reince Priebus, who will have the more visible job of White House chief of staff and an appointee who comes directly out of the Republican Party establishment. The question of how Mr. Bannon and Mr. Priebus will work together — or if they can — is one of the largest facing the new White House.
他让与其关系密切的人士放心，他会像在竞选期间一样，维持与特朗普的直接交流，而且他的地位会和雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)旗鼓相当。后者出身于共和党建制派，将担任白宫幕僚长这一更为引人注目的职务。班农和普利巴斯将以怎样的方式一起工作——或者能否一起工作——会是新白宫将面临的最大问题之一。
While Mr. Trump became the leader of the movement of disaffected Americans who feel lost and disenfranchised in a nation undergoing rapid cultural and demographic change, Mr. Bannon has been a student of global populist trends, carefully tracking the rise of the far-right National Front in France under Marine Le Pen and the remarkable victory of the U.K. Independence Party in Britain’s vote this year to leave the European Union.
在美国经历日新月异的文化和人口结构变迁之际，许多美国人心怀不满，感到迷失了方向，觉得自己的权利受到了剥夺，特朗普成为了这些人所参与的运动的领袖。班农则一直是全球民粹主义潮流的研究者，他会密切追踪由马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)领导的法国极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)的崛起，以及英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)在英国投票脱欧过程中取得的重大胜利。
“Steve saw — and was a thought leader and a visionary about — the issues and the movement that Trump eventually caught onto and espoused,” said Larry Solov, the chief executive of Breitbart.
“史蒂夫注意到了特朗普最终理解并进行宣扬的议题和运动，而且是这方面的思想领袖，具有远见卓识，”布莱巴特新闻网站的首席执行官拉里·索洛夫(Larry Solov)说。
“He’s like a field general,” Mr. Solov added, “and very much sees the fight for the soul of this country as a war.”
“他就像是战场上的一位将军，”索洛夫补充道，“在很大程度上把为这个国家的灵魂而奋斗视为一场战争。”
His former colleagues at Breitbart refer to him admiringly as a “honey badger” because of his relentlessness, which they say they expect him to use against Republicans and Democrats in equal measure.
班农在布莱巴特新闻网站的前同事满怀钦敬地称其为“蜜獾”，因为他是一个坚韧不懈的人。他们说，希望看到他用自己的这种特质去和对手展开抗争，不管对方是共和党，还是民主党。
“What drives Steve,” said Joel B. Pollak, Breitbart’s editor at large, “is the way the political establishment is holding back American politics.”
“驱动史蒂夫的，”布莱巴特新闻网站的特约编辑乔尔·B·波拉克(Joel B. Pollak)说，“是政治建制派对美国政治发展的阻碍。”
Mr. Pollak added, “He has absolute clarity about what needs to be achieved at any given time.”
波拉克还表示，“对于在任何给定的时间需要达成什么目标，他有着绝对清晰的认知。”