One of Donald Trump’s latest contributions to the 2016 presidential contest is an offer to talk with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator who keeps 25 million people enslaved and commands an arsenal that some experts say could have more than 20 nuclear weapons by the end of this year. “I would speak to him,” the presumed Republican nominee told Reuters in an interview. “I would have no problem speaking to him.”
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)对2016年总统竞选的一个最新贡献是提出愿与朝鲜独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)直接会谈。金正恩奴役着2500万民众，掌握了庞大的军火库。一些专家表示，到今年底，朝鲜有可能造出逾20枚核武器。“我会和他谈，”稳获共和党提名资格的特朗普接受路透社(Reuters)采访时表示。“这对我来说不是问题。”
Such an overture would be a major shift in American policy. No sitting American president has ever met a North Korean leader. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright met Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, on a trip to Pyongyang in 2000; after leaving office, President Jimmy Carter and President Bill Clinton went to the capital separately on envoy missions.
这样的姿态将是美国政策的重大转变。在任美国总统从未与朝鲜领导人会面。在2000年，当时的国务卿马德琳·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine Albright)曾赴平壤访问，与金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)见面。离任之后的前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)则身负外交使命分别前往过该国首都。
Since 2012, the administration has not had sustained talks with the North Koreans at any level. Pyongyang has refused to eliminate its nuclear program, and in fact accelerated its nuclear activities this year by testing a fourth nuclear device and attempting to launch several missiles. That caused the United Nations Security Council to impose tough new sanctions.
自2012年以来，奥巴马政府没有在任何层面上与朝鲜进行持续对话。平壤一直拒绝取消其核计划，实际上今年还在推进其核活动，不仅第四次测试了核设备，还试射了多枚导弹。这些行为导致联合国安全理事会对其施加了新的严厉制裁。
That said, it’s not Mr. Trump’s offer to talk, per se, with a difficult leader that is the problem. During the 2008 presidential campaign, Mr. Obama declared his willingness to meet, without preconditions, the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea in an effort to bridge gaps.
尽管如此，特朗普愿与难对付的领导人会面的提议本身并不是问题所在。在2008年的总统竞选期间，奥巴马表明，为了弥合分歧，他愿意无先决条件地与伊朗、叙利亚、委内瑞拉、古巴和朝鲜领导人会面。
His opponent for the Democratic nomination, Hillary Clinton, didn’t rule out talking with them but said it wouldn’t happen during her first year in office while she pursued a vigorous diplomatic effort to learn “what the intentions are.”
与他竞争民主党提名资格的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)当时也并未排除与他们会谈的可能性，但表示不会在当政第一年就这么做，因为她届时会进行紧张的外交努力，以掌握“对方的意图”。
Later, as secretary of state under Mr. Obama, she appointed a negotiator for North Korea. This step led to a 2012 agreement under which Pyongyang promised to stop nuclear and long-range missile tests in return for a resumption of food aid. But the deal soon fell apart.
后来，在奥巴马总统旗下担任国务卿期间，克林顿任命了一位负责与朝鲜谈判的特使。这一举动促成了2012年的一项协议。朝鲜承诺停止核试验和远程导弹测试，以此换取粮食援助的恢复。然而，该协议很快就崩溃了。
In significant ways, Mr. Obama has made good on his commitment to reach out to adversaries, as many of his predecessors have done. He wisely forged new relationships with Cuba and Myanmar, visited those countries and met their leaders. He reached an important nuclear deal with Iran, spoke with President Hassan Rouhani by telephone and shook hands with Mohammad Javad Zarif, the foreign minister. But since 2012, Mr. Obama has not tried hard enough to find an opening with North Korea.
在很大程度上，奥巴马兑现了主动接触敌人的承诺，沿袭了不少前任的做法。他明智地同古巴和缅甸建立了新的外交关系，出访了这两个国家并与其领导人会晤。他与伊朗达成了关键的核协议，和伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)通过电话，与外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)握过手。不过，2012年以后，在寻找与朝鲜的机会方面，奥巴马一直没有进行足够的尝试。
The problem with Mr. Trump is that there is no evidence that he understands how to use a meeting with Mr. Kim to advance American interests. Just showing up in Pyongyang is not the answer. Mr. Kim would stage a gala celebration in a big public square and Mr. Trump would become a prop for legitimizing the North Korean leader and his nuclear program.
特朗普的问题在于，没有迹象表明他懂得如何利用与金正恩的会面来推进美国的利益。光是在平壤露面并不解决问题。金正恩会在巨大的广场上举办一场盛大的欢庆仪式，而特朗普会成为让朝鲜领导人及其核计划合法化的一件道具。
Any thought that Mr. Trump could just browbeat Mr. Kim into giving up the nuclear program is dubious. The North Koreans have been demanding recognition as a nuclear weapons state. At the recent Korean Workers’ Party Congress, Mr. Kim reaffirmed a determination to plow ahead with the nuclear weapons and missile programs, regardless of the cost, saying they brought the country “dignity and national power.”
认为特朗普可以直接威逼金正恩放弃核计划的想法并不可靠。朝鲜一直要求外界承认自己是个核武国家。在近期的劳动党全国代表大会上，金正恩重申要不惜一切地大力推进核武器和导弹计划，声称正是它们给朝鲜带来了“尊严和国家实力”。
To the extent he has any ideas for dealing with the nuclear program, Mr. Trump has talked often about getting China, North Korea’s main source of food and fuel, to pressure Pyongyang. If China refuses, Mr. Trump has said he would impose a 45 percent tariff on Chinese imports.
特朗普常常谈到让中国——朝鲜主要的粮食和燃料来源——去向平壤施压。倘若中国拒绝，特朗普则声称会向进口的中国商品征收45%的关税。这显示了他在应对朝鲜核问题上的局限性。
Those are tactical moves, not a comprehensive plan to mitigate a serious threat. And the United States, Japan and South Korea have already been pushing China to weigh in more robustly with the North. The new Security Council sanctions are one result.
这些都是技术手段，而非消解一个严重威胁的全面计划。而且，美国、日本和韩国已经在推动中国更积极地干预朝鲜事务。安理会的新制裁措施便是其中的一项成果。
Obviously, the next president needs to confront this challenge. There is a successful model for negotiating with Pyongyang: a 1994 agreement that froze the North’s plutonium program for nearly a decade. However, the nuclear program today is much larger and more sophisticated and the current North Korean leader, less experienced and less predictable than his father. Finding a solution grows harder with every passing day.
显然，美国的下任总统必须面对这一挑战。同平壤谈判的成功案例是存在的：1994年达成的一项协议将朝鲜的钚计划冻结了近10年。然而，朝鲜今日的核计划远比当年规模更大、技术更为成熟，而朝鲜目前的领导人又比他的父亲要缺乏经验、更难预测。时间每消逝一天，找到解决之道的难度就更添一分。