CLEVELAND — Melania Trump earned praise for her speech on Monday at the opening night of the Republican National Convention, but her remarks almost immediately came under scrutiny when striking similarities were discovered between her speech and one delivered by Michelle Obama at the Democratic convention in 2008.
克利夫兰——在共和党全国代表大会周一开幕之夜，梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)因她的演讲赢得了赞誉，但她的一些话几乎马上就受到仔细的检查，有人在她的讲话中发现了与米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)2008年在民主党全国代表大会上作的演讲有惊人的相似之处。
The phrases in question came when Melania Trump — who told NBC News earlier Monday that she had written her speech herself — was discussing her upbringing in Slovenia and her parents.
被质疑的一些短句出现在梅拉尼娅·特朗普谈到自己的成长过程和父母的那部分，她在周一早些时候告诉NBC新闻，演讲是她自己写的。
Here are the relevant passages.
下面是有关的部分。
Melania Trump, Monday night:
梅拉尼娅·特朗普周一晚说：
“From a young age, my parents impressed on me thevalues that you work hard for what you want in life, that your word is your bond and you do what you say and keep your promise, that you treat people with respect. They taught and showed me values and morals in their daily lives. That is a lesson that I continue to pass along to our son. And we need to pass those lessons onto the manygenerations to follow. Because we want our children in this nation to know that the only limit to your achievements is the strength of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.”
“从年龄不大的时候起，父母就让我铭记下这些价值观：你靠努力工作来获得生活中你想要的东西，你的言词是你的承诺，你怎么说就怎么做，你要尊重地对待他人。他们在自己的日常生活中教给我这种价值观和道德观、并且以身作则。我继续把这些教导传给我们的儿子。我们需要把这些教导传给未来的一代又一代。因为我们想让这个国家的孩子们知道，你们成就的唯一限制是你们梦想的力量以及你们为梦想而工作的意愿。”
Michelle Obama, in her 2008 speech:
米歇尔·奥巴马在她2008年的演讲中说：
“Barack and I were raised with so many of the same values: that you work hard for what you want in life; that your word is your bond and you do what you say you’re going to do; that you treat people with dignity and respect, even if you don’t know them, and even if you don’t agree with them. And Barack and I set out to build lives guided by these values, and pass them on to the next generation. Because we want our children — and all children in this nation — to know that the only limit to the height of your achievements is the reach of your dreams and your willingness to work for them.”
“我和巴拉克在许多相同的价值观指导下长大：即你靠努力工作来获得生活中你想要的东西；你的言词是你的承诺，你怎么说就怎么做，你要信守诺言；你要有尊严地、尊重地对待他人，即使你不认识他们，即使你不同意他们的观点。我和巴拉克在这些价值观的指导下开始建立人生，我们把这些价值观传给了下一代。因为我们想让我们的孩子——以及这个国家所有的孩子——知道，你们成就的唯一限制是你们梦想的力量以及你们为梦想而工作的意愿。”
Melania Trump:
梅拉尼娅·特朗普说：
“I was born in Slovenia, a small, beautiful and then-communist country in Central Europe. My sister, Ines, who is an incredible woman and a friend, and I were raised by my wonderful parents. My elegant and hardworking mother, Amalija, introduced me to fashion and beauty. My father, Viktor, instilled in me a passion for business and travel. Their integrity, compassion and intelligence reflects to this day on me and for my love of family and America.”
“我出生在中欧美丽小国斯洛文尼亚，当时那是一个共产主义国家。我们出色的父母养育了我和姐姐伊内丝，伊内丝是一个令人难以置信的女性，也是我的朋友。我优雅和勤劳的母亲阿马利娅让我了解时尚和美感。我的父亲维克托向我灌输了商业和旅游的热情。他们的正直、同情心和才智至今仍影响着我以及我对家庭和美国的热爱。”
Michelle Obama in 2008:
米歇尔·奥巴马2008年说：
“And I come here as a daughter — raised on the South Side of Chicago by a father who was a blue-collar city worker and a mother who stayed at home with my brother and me. My mother’s love has always been a sustaining force for our family, and one of my greatest joys is seeing her integrity, her compassion and her intelligence reflected in my own daughters.”
“我作为一个女儿来到这里，我在芝加哥南区长大，父亲是一名城市蓝领工人，母亲主持家务，照顾我和哥哥。我母亲的爱一直是一种维系我们家庭的力量，我最大的乐趣之一就是看到她的正直、她的同情心和她的才智在我两个女儿的身上得到体现。”
Jarrett Hill, a Twitter user whose biography describes him as an interior designer and journalist, apparently first noticed the resemblance between Melania Trump’s speech and Michelle Obama’s in 2008.
贾勒特·希尔(Jarrett Hill)看来是最先注意到梅拉尼娅·特朗普的演讲与米歇尔·奥巴马2008年的有相似之处的人，他是一个Twitter用户，帐户的自我介绍称他是一名室内设计师和记者。
But Melania Trump said in an interview taped with NBC’s Matt Lauer before her speech that she went over it just once in advance. “I wrote it with as little help as possible,” she said.
不过，在发表演讲前录制的接受NBC的马特·劳尔采访的节目中，梅拉尼娅·特朗普说，她事先只过了一遍稿子，她说，“我自己写的，而且尽可能地少用别人的帮助。”
Donald Trump’s campaign aides stayed quiet early Tuesday. Privately, one Trump aide said the campaign was going over the passages from the two speeches, while another blamed the news media and Democrats, suggesting they were fanning flames.
唐纳德·特朗普的竞选助手们在周二凌晨仍保持沉默。私下里，特朗普的一名竞选助手说，竞选班子正在仔细检查这两篇演讲中的段落。另一名竞选助手则指责新闻媒体和民主党人，暗示这是他们在煽风点火。
As the controversy broke out, Donald Trump posted on Twitter: “It was truly an honor to introduce my wife, Melania. Her speech and demeanor were absolutely incredible. Very proud!”
随着争议的爆发，唐纳德·特朗普在Twitter上发了如下内容：“把我的妻子梅拉尼娅引见给大家真是一种荣誉。她的演讲和举止绝对令人难以置信。很自豪！”
Some of Donald Trump’s staunchest defenders had trouble explaining the overlapping language. On CNN, Jeffrey Lord, a commentator and Trump supporter, called it “a serious thing” and recalled the plagiarism scandal that helped sink Vice President Joe Biden’s 1988 presidential bid. Lord speculated that a staff member on Donald Trump’s campaign was responsible and added that whomever it was should be let go.
唐纳德·特朗普的一些最坚定的捍卫者无法解释这些语言上的重叠。在CNN电视台，评论员和特朗普支持者杰弗里·洛德(Jeffrey Lord)称其是“一件严重的事情”，他回顾了作为现任副总统乔·拜登1988年总统竞选努力失败的部分原因的剽窃丑闻。洛德推测，唐纳德·特朗普的竞选工作人员对演讲稿负有负责，并补充说，不管是谁都应该让他走人。
Sarah Hurwitz, a White House speechwriter who composed Michelle Obama’s 2008 address, did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.
白宫演讲稿撰写人莎拉·赫维茨(Sarah Hurwitz)为米歇尔·奥巴马编写了2008年的演讲，赫维茨没有马上回复请她对此事置评的电子邮件。
Speeches by political spouses tend to be deeply personal and even idiosyncratic because they often describe specific qualities and anecdotes that only a husband or wife would know. Ann Romney delivered a detailed testimonial about Mitt Romney’s private side at the Republican convention in 2012, the sort of highly tailored speech that spouses have delivered for decades about presidential nominees.
政治配偶的演讲往往带有深度私下、甚至是个人癖好的成份，因为这些演讲经常描述的特殊个性和轶事只有丈夫或妻子才知道。安·罗姆尼在2012年的共和党代表大会上对米特·罗姆尼私下的表现发表了详细的赞美之辞，属于那种几十年来配偶对总统提名人发表的高度定制的讲话。
Melania Trump’s speech was praised by Republicans as one of the evening’s high points. It was one of the first such public forays by a woman who is deeply private.
梅拉尼娅·特朗普的讲话被共和党人誉为当晚的亮点之一。这是一位高度隐秘的女子的首次公开活动之一。
As it happened, the thrust of Monday night’s speaker lineup was what Republicans called the inauthenticity and incompetence of Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee.
碰巧，周一晚上演讲者阵容的主旨是共和党人所谓的希拉里·克林顿的不可信和无能。
Hill, a television journalist who was recently laid off, said in an interview that one of Melania Trump’s lines — the words “strength of your dreams” — caught his attention as he was watching on his computer from a Starbucks in Los Angeles, juggling Facebook chats and browsing Twitter.
前不久被解雇的电视记者希尔在接受采访时表示，当他在洛杉矶的一家星巴克咖啡馆在自己的计算机上一边观看演讲、一边在Facebook聊天和浏览Twitter上忙得不可开交时，梅拉尼娅·特朗普的话、特别是“你们梦想的力量”这几个词引起了他的注意。
“It kind of made me pause for a minute,” Hill said. “I remembered that line from Michelle Obama’s speech.”
“这隐约地让我停顿了一分钟，”希尔说。“我记得米歇尔·奥巴马的演讲中有这句话。”
Hill, 31, found the clip of Michelle Obama’s speech online and noticed that parts of the two speeches sounded the same. He then realized that a larger portion appeared to have been borrowed as he continued to examine both.
现年31岁的希尔在网上找到了米歇尔·奥巴马的演讲片段，发现两个演讲的一些部分听起来一模一样。然后，随着他继续对比这两篇演讲，他意识到，有更大的部分似乎也是借来的。
“I thought, ‘That’s legit plagiarism,'” said Hill, who described himself as a supporter of President Barack Obama. “'Someone took this piece and plugged in their own information.'”
“我心想，‘这是毫无疑问的抄袭，’”希尔说，他自称是奥巴马总统的支持者。“‘有人在这篇演讲的基础上，把他们自己的信息塞进去了。’”
Accusation of plagiarism are not unheard-of in political speeches, although the consequences have varied.
抄袭的指控在政治演讲中并非前所未闻，虽然后果不尽相同。
In 2008, Hillary Clinton criticized Barack Obama for appearing to lift a passage from Deval Patrick, then the governor of Massachusets, in a speech about how words matter. Barack Obama, then a senator, said that he could have credited Patrick but that he did not consider it a case of plagiarism.
2008年，希拉里·克林顿曾批评巴拉克·奥巴马，在一篇有关语言如何重要的演讲中，似乎借用了时任马萨诸塞州州长的德瓦尔·帕特里克的一段话。时任参议员的奥巴马说，他本来可以给出帕特里克的名字，但他并不认为那是抄袭。
When Biden was running for president in the 1980s, he faced questions about plagiarizing speeches from Robert F. Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey and Neil Kinnock, a British Labor Party leader. Biden said at the time that it was “ludicrous” to expect a politician to attribute everything he said.
当拜登在20世纪80年代竞选总统时，他面临有关剽窃罗伯特·肯尼迪、休伯特·汉弗莱，以及英国工党领袖尼尔·金诺克演讲的质疑。拜登当时说，指望政治家给出其所有话的出处很“荒唐”。
Donald Trump’s reed-thin campaign staff, which served him well in the Republican primary contests, has started to grow in recent weeks. But he has struggled to professionalize his operation to adapt to a general election.
唐纳德·特朗普精炼的竞选班子在共和党初选竞争中让他受益匪浅，这个班子在最近几周已经开始增长。但他一直还在努力让竞选活动专业化，以适应全国大选的需要。