WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump on Monday signed a revised version of his executive order that would for the first time rewrite U.S. immigration policy to bar migrants from predominantly Muslim nations, removing citizens of Iraq from the original travel embargo and scrapping a provision that explicitly protected religious minorities.
华盛顿——特朗普总统周一签署了一道修改后的政令。原来的政令阻止来自穆斯林为主的国家的移民，有可能会第一次改写美国的移民政策。而现在，新政令将伊拉克公民从原先的名单中删除，并取消了一个明确保护少数宗教派别的条款。
The order, which comes about a month after federal judges blocked Trump’s haphazardly executed ban in January on residents from seven Middle Eastern and African countries, won’t affect people who had previously been issued visas — a change that the administration hopes will avoid the chaos, protests and legal challenges that followed the first order.
一个月前，联邦法官阻止了特朗普1月份匆忙生效的政令，禁止来自7个中东和非洲国家的公民入境美国。新的政令不会影响以前获得了签证的人——政府希望通过这种修改来避免原禁令引发的混乱、抗议和法律挑战。
But it did little to halt criticism from Democrats and immigrant rights groups, which predicted a renewed fight in the courts. Trump’s initial, hastily issued order on Jan. 27 prompted protests across the country, leaving tearful families stranded at airports abroad and in the United States.
但它未能阻止民主党和移民维权团体的批评，很可能再次被诉诸法院。特朗普在1月27日匆忙发布的原政令引发了全国各地的抗议活动，令一些伤心流泪的家庭滞留在国内外的机场。
The new measure will be phased in over the next two weeks, according to officials with the Department of Homeland Security.
根据国土安全部官员的说法，新的政令将在接下来的两周内分阶段实施。
John F. Kelly, the Homeland Security secretary, said the order was “prospective” and applied “only to foreign nationals outside of the United States” who do not have a valid visa.
国土安全部部长约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)说，该政令是“前瞻性的”，只适用于那些没有有效签证的“不在美国的外国国民”。
“If you have a current valid visa to travel, we welcome you,” John F. Kelly, the Homeland Security secretary, said while appearing alongside Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Attorney General Jeff Sessions at the Ronald Reagan Federal Building in Washington on Monday. “Unregulated, un-vetted travel is not a universal privilege, especially when national security is at stake,” he added.
“如果你持有现在有效的旅行签证，我们欢迎你。”约翰·凯利周一在华盛顿说。当时他和国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)、司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)一起在罗纳德·里根联邦大楼(Ronald Reagan Federal Building)。“不受管制、未经审查的旅行不是普遍特权，特别是在国家安全遭受威胁的时候，”他说。
The indefinite ban on refugees from Syria has been reduced to a 120-day ban, requiring review and renewal, the Department of Homeland Security officials said. The new order retains a temporary ban on all refugees.
国土安全部官员说，对叙利亚难民的无限期禁令已经减少到了120天，它需要评估和更新。新版本维持了对所有难民的临时禁令。
Citizens of Iran, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, Syria and Libya will face a 90-day suspension of visa processing as the administration continues to analyze how to enhance vetting procedures.
伊朗、索马里、苏丹、也门、叙利亚和利比亚的公民将面临90天的签证处理暂停期，因为行政部门将继续分析如何强化审查手续。
The removal of Iraq from the list came after talks with security officials in Baghdad, at the urging of State and Defense department officials, who felt the ban would undermine the stability of the U.S.-allied government.
国务院和国防部的官员认为原禁令会破坏与美国结盟的巴格达政府的稳定，在他们的敦促下，与在巴格达的安全官员进行了会谈后，新禁令将伊拉克从名单上删除。