Update: In the latest iteration, the Justice Department declined to comment on whether Mr. Trump is — or is not — the subject of an investigation. “No comment,” a department official said. A official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case, said that Mr. Spicer had not relied on any information from the department in denying the existence of an investigation targeting the president.
更新：司法部拒绝评论特朗普是否成为了一项调查的目标。“无可奉告，”一名司法部官员这样说道。一名因事件敏感性而要求匿名的官员表示，白宫发言人并未从司法部得到任何信息，去否认存在针对总统的调查。
White House officials declared on Wednesday that President Trump was not the target of an investigation, five days after Mr. Trump himself raised the prospect with an unsubstantiated claim that his predecessor ordered the wiretapping of Trump Tower.
白宫官员周三宣布，特朗普总统并非一起调查针对的目标；五天前，特朗普自己提出了一个未经证实的说法，称前任总统下令窃听特朗普大厦，从而引发了这种揣测。
After first refusing to disavow Mr. Trump’s allegations, made in a series of Twitter posts, and instead calling for Congress to investigate them, the press secretary, Sean Spicer, told reporters, “There is no reason that we have to think the president is the target of any investigation whatsoever.”
新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)最初拒绝否认特朗普在一系列Twitter帖子上进行的指控，而是要求国会调查此事，但后来他告诉记者：“我们没有理由认为总统是任何调查的目标。”
Mr. Spicer’s statement, which he read from a sheet of paper that was handed to him at the end of his briefing, reinforced the conundrum Mr. Trump’s tweets have created for the White House: Either the president’s assertions are baseless, or he may have implicated himself in a government investigation of contacts between his presidential campaign and Russia.
斯派塞的声明，是在新闻发布会接近尾声时，助理递给他一页纸后宣读的，这个声明加剧了特朗普的Twitter帖子给白宫造成的难题：要么总统的说法是毫无根据的，要么他可能卷入了政府对他的总统竞选活动与俄罗斯之间牵连的调查中。
Until Wednesday, Mr. Spicer had steadfastly declined to discuss Mr. Trump’s assertion that former President Barack Obama ordered wiretap surveillance of Trump Tower — an act that Mr. Trump condemned as a scandal comparable in scale to McCarthyism or Watergate.
本周三之前，对于特朗普声称前总统奥巴马下令窃听特朗普大厦的说法，斯派塞一直拒绝讨论——特朗普谴责这种窃听活动，并将其比作麦卡锡主义或水门事件。
Early into Wednesday’s briefing, Mr. Spicer stuck to the policy he has followed since the storm broke over Mr. Trump’s posts. Asked whether the president was the target of a counterintelligence inquiry, he replied: “I think that’s what we need to find out. There’s obviously a lot of concern.”
周三吹风会开始的时候，斯派塞还坚持特朗普的帖子掀起风暴以来的态度不变。当被问及总统是否是一起反间谍调查的目标时，他回答说：“我认为这是我们需要弄清楚的事情。显然很多人都在关注这件事。”
But after an aide slipped Mr. Spicer a note, he circled back to clarify that “there is no reason to believe there is any type of investigation with respect to the Department of Justice.” The press secretary insisted he was not disavowing the president, who posted his tweets early on Saturday morning from Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Palm Beach, Fla.
但在助手给斯派塞递来一张字条之后，他又回过去澄清“没有理由相信有人开展了和司法部有关的任何类型的调查”。这位发言人坚称，他不是在否认总统的说法。那些Twitter消息是特朗普于周六一大早在佛罗里达州棕榈滩度假村马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)发布的。
“The tweet dealt with wiretaps,” Mr. Spicer said. “The other is an investigation. They are two separate issues.”
“帖子讲的是窃听，”斯派塞说。“其他的讲的是调查。这是两个不同的问题。”
While the F.B.I. is conducting a wide-ranging counterintelligence investigation into Russian interference with the 2016 presidential election, there is no public evidence that Mr. Trump is a target. The Justice Department defines “target” as someone whom investigators have substantial evidence against and who is likely to be indicted.
虽然FBI正在对俄罗斯干预2016年总统选举进行广泛的反间谍调查，但没有公开证据表明特朗普是调查目标。司法部将“目标”定义为调查人员已经掌握了实质证据以及有可能被起诉的人。
Current and former officials have said repeatedly that although they were concerned about intelligence suggesting meetings between associates of Mr. Trump’s and Russian officials, they have developed no evidence of collusion between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia’s hacking efforts. Mr. Spicer cited the former director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., who last Sunday made that point on the NBC program “Meet the Press.”
现任和前任官员一再表示，虽然他们很关注一些情报暗示特朗普的助手和俄罗斯官员下属会面的事情，但他们没有发现表明特朗普的竞选活动和俄罗斯的黑客行动之间存在勾结的证据。斯派塞援引了前国家情报局长小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)周日在NBC节目《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)中说的话。
But Mr. Clapper also said he had no knowledge the government had sought a warrant from a foreign intelligence court to install a wiretap in Trump Tower. On Saturday, the director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, asked the Justice Department to publicly reject Mr. Trump’s claim that his agency had wiretapped his phones. The department has refused to do so.
但克拉珀也说，他不知道政府曾从外国情报法院获得了搜查令，以便在特朗普大厦安装窃听器。上周六，FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)要求司法部公开否定特朗普说FBI窃听他电话的说法，结果被司法部拒绝了。
Mr. Spicer complained bitterly about news media coverage of ties between Mr. Trump and Russia, saying it was fueled by leaks from anonymous sources, none of which had been substantiated.
新闻媒体对特朗普和俄罗斯之间的关系的报道，遭到了斯派塞的强烈抱怨。他说这些报道是匿名的消息来源在推波助澜，完全没有经过证实。
“It’s interesting how many times this fake narrative gets repeated over and over and over again,” he said. “And yet no evidence has ever been suggested that shows the president has anything to do with any of the things that are being said. It’s a recycled story, over and over and over again.”
“有趣的是，这个假故事被人一遍一遍又一遍地反复炒作，”他说。“然而，没有任何证据表明总统与他们正在说的任何事情有任何联系。这个故事翻来覆去地炒，一遍一遍又一遍。”
The problem for the White House is that Mr. Trump fueled this week’s cycle of stories himself. On Wednesday, the top Republican and Democrat on the Senate’s Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism asked the F.B.I. and the Justice Department for evidence that the government had sought legal permission to tap Mr. Trump’s phones.
白宫面临的问题是，特朗普自己助长了本周这个故事的反复炒作。周三，参议院犯罪和恐怖主义司法委员会的共和党和民主党高层要求FBI和司法部出示证据，证明政府已经获得了监控特朗普电话的法律许可。
The request came in a letter from Senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, to Mr. Comey and the acting deputy attorney general, Dana Boente. Mr. Boente is overseeing the Russia inquiry because Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from any cases involving the Trump campaign and Russia, after acknowledging he met with Russia’s ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak.
这一要求是来自南卡罗来纳州的共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)和罗德岛的民主党参议员谢尔登·怀特豪斯(Sheldon Whitehouse)在给科米和代理司法部副部长达纳·布恩特(Dana Boente)的信中提出的。对俄罗斯的调查目前由布恩特在负责，因为司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)承认自己与俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)会面后，回避了所有涉及特朗普竞选和俄罗斯的案件。
“We request that the Department of Justice provide us copies of any warrant applications and court orders — redacted as necessary to protect intelligence sources and methods that may be compromised by disclosure, and to protect any ongoing investigations — related to wiretaps of President Trump, the Trump campaign or Trump Tower,” the senators wrote.
“我们要求司法部向我们提供所有涉及窃听特朗普总统、特朗普的竞选活动或特朗普大厦的搜查令申请和法院命令的副本——必要的地方可以进行编辑处理，以便保护可能因此事而曝光的线人和情报手段，也保护所有正在进行的调查。”这些参议员写道。
With no evidence of wiretaps emerging, the White House has been forced into a defensive communications strategy. It has curtailed Mr. Trump’s appearances before cameras, where reporters could ask him about his claims. Mr. Spicer held his briefing on Monday without TV cameras, though on Tuesday and Wednesday, he answered questions at length and before the cameras.
由于窃听说法没有证据，白宫不得不采取防御性的沟通策略。特朗普没有现身发布会，本来记者可以向他直接提问。斯派塞本周一开发布会的时候，现场没有电视摄影记者，但周二和周三他面对摄像机详细回答了问题。
On Tuesday, the administration sent the secretary of homeland security, John F. Kelly, on CNN, where he, too, provided no evidence of any wiretapping. However, Mr. Kelly said, “if the president of the United States said that, he’s got his reasons to say it.”
周二，特朗普政府派国土安全部长约翰·凯利(John F. Kelly)参加了CNN的节目，他也没有提供任何关于窃听的证据。但是凯利表示，“如果美国总统那么说，他也有他自己的理由。”