WASHINGTON — President Trump stunned Republicans on live television Wednesday by embracing gun control and urging a group of lawmakers at the White House to resurrect gun safety legislation that has been opposed for years by the powerful National Rifle Association and the vast majority of his party.
华盛顿——周三，特朗普总统在电视直播中支持枪支管制，令共和党人感到震惊。他在白宫敦促一群议员重新启动枪支安全立法。该立法行动多年来一直遭到强大的美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)和共和党绝大多数成员的反对。
In a remarkable meeting in the Roosevelt Room, the president veered wildly from the N.R.A. playbook in front of giddy Democrats and stone-faced Republicans. He called for comprehensive gun control legislation that would expand background checks to weapons purchased at gun shows and on the internet, keep guns from the mentally ill, secure schools and restrict gun sales from some young adults. He even suggested a conversation on an assault weapons ban.
在罗斯福厅举行的一次引人注目的会议上，在欣喜的民主党人和脸色阴沉的共和党人面前，总统大大背离了美国步枪协会的主张。他呼吁制定全面的枪支管制法案，扩大对在枪支展和互联网上购买武器的背景核查，防止精神病患者获得枪支，保卫学校的安全，限制某些年轻人购买枪支。他甚至建议就攻击性武器禁令展开对话。
At one point, Mr. Trump suggested that law enforcement authorities should have the power to seize guns from mentally ill or other dangerous people without first going to court. “I like taking the guns early,” he said, adding, “take the guns first, go through due process second.”
特朗普在会上一度建议，执法当局应该有权在不经过法院的情况下，从精神病患者或其他危险人物手中夺取枪支。“我倾向于先夺取枪支，”他说。他还说，“先夺枪，再走该走的程序。”
The president’s declarations prompted a frantic series of calls from N.R.A. lobbyists to their allies on Capitol Hill and a statement from the group calling the ideas Mr. Trump expressed “bad policy.” Republican lawmakers issued statements or told reporters they remain opposed to gun control measures.
总统的声明导致美国步枪协会的游说者纷纷向国会山的盟友们打去电话。该协会还发表了一份声明，称特朗普提出的是“糟糕的政策”。共和党议员或者发表声明或者告诉记者，他们依然反对采取枪支管制措施。
“We’re not ditching any Constitutional protections simply because the last person the President talked to today doesn’t like them,” snapped Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska.
“我们不会仅仅因为今天最后一位跟总统谈话的人不喜欢宪法保护而放弃它们，”内布拉斯加州共和党参议员本·萨斯(Ben Sasse)愤怒地表示。
Democrats, too, said they were skeptical that Mr. Trump will follow through.
民主党人也表示，他们担心特朗普不会坚持到底。
“The White House can now launch a lobbying campaign to get universal background checks passed, as the president promised in this meeting, or they can sit and do nothing,” said Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut.
“白宫现在可以发起一场游说活动，推动全面背景核查法案得以通过，就像总统在这次会议上承诺的那样，他们也可以坐视不管，”康涅狄格州民主党参议员克里斯·墨菲(Chris Murphy)表示。
At the core of Mr. Trump’s suggestion was the revival of a bipartisan bill drafted in 2013 by Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a Democrat, and Patrick J. Toomey of Pennsylvania, a Republican, after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Despite a concerted push by President Barack Obama and the personal appeals of Sandy Hook parents, the bill fell to a largely Republican filibuster.
特朗普提议的核心是恢复2013年由两党共同提出的一个法案。它是西弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)和宾夕法尼亚州共和党参议员帕特里克·J·图米(Patrick J. Toomey)在桑迪·胡克小学(Sandy Hook Elementary School)大屠杀发生后起草的。尽管该法案得到了贝拉克·奥巴马总统和桑迪·胡克小学家长们个人呼吁的共同推动，但遭到许多共和党议员的阻挠。
The president’s embrace did not immediately yield converts. Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said that he was unmoved after the meeting, repeating the Republican dogma that recent shootings were not “conducted by someone who bought a gun at a gun show or parking lot.” Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican who sat next to Mr. Trump looking alternately bemused and flustered, emerged from the meeting and declared, “I thought it was fascinating television and it was surreal to actually be there.”
总统的支持并没有立即改变很多人的立场。佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)在会后表示，他并没有被打动，并重申了共和党的立场，那就是，最近的这些枪击事件并非“那些在枪支展或停车场购买枪支的人所为”。德克萨斯州参议员约翰·科宁(John Cornyn)是坐在特朗普身边的二号共和党人，他的表情时而迷惑，时而慌乱。他走出会场时宣布，“我认为这是一个精彩的电视节目，身在其中感觉有些超现实。”
But Mr. Trump suggested that the dynamics in Washington have changed following the Florida school shooting that claimed 17 lives, in part because of his own leadership in the White House, a sentiment that the Democrats in the room readily appeared to embrace as they saw the president supporting their ideas.
但特朗普认为，导致17人丧生的佛罗里达校园枪击案发生后，华盛顿的气氛发生了变化。他认为变化的一个原因是自己在白宫的领导，会议厅里的民主党人看到总统在支持自己的观点，似乎也乐意赞同总统的这种感觉。
“It would be so beautiful to have one bill that everyone could support,” Mr. Trump said as Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and a longtime gun-control advocate, sat smiling to his left. “It’s time that a president stepped up.”
“如果有一项大家都支持的法案，那就太好了，”特朗普说。坐在他左边的加州民主党参议员、枪支管控的长期倡导者黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)露出了笑容。“该有一位总统站出来了。”
Democrats tried to turn sometimes muddled presidential musings into firm policy: “You saw the president clearly saying not once, not twice, not three times, but like ten times, that he wanted to see a strong universal background check bill,” Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, said. “He didn’t mince words about it. So I do not understand how then he could back away from that.”
民主党人试图将总统时而混乱的想法变成坚定的政策：“你看到总统明确地做出了表态，不是一次、两次或三次，而是十次左右，他想要看到一个强有力的、普遍的背景核查法案，”明尼苏达州民主党参议员艾米·克洛布彻(Amy Klobuchar)说。“在这个问题上，他没有拐弯抹角。所以我不认为他会改变主张。”
Just what the performance means, and whether Mr. Trump will aggressively push for new gun restrictions, remain uncertain given Mr. Trump’s history of taking erratic positions on policy issues, especially ones that have long polarized Washington and the country.
至于这场表演意味着什么，以及特朗普是否会积极推行新的枪支限制措施，依然不确定，因为他过去经常在政策问题上采取摇摆的立场，尤其是那些长期分化华盛顿和美国的问题。