International diplomacy is a world of careful rituals, hierarchy and credentials. But when the Israeli ambassador to the United States, Ron Dermer, wanted to communicate with Donald Trump, he ended up on two occasions in the Manhattan office of a young man with no government experience, no political background and no official title in the Trump campaign: Jared Kushner.
国际外交界是一个由精心的仪式、等级和国书组成的世界。但当以色列驻美大使罗恩·德默尔(Ron Dermer)想和唐纳德·特朗普进行沟通时，却两次都落到了一个年轻人的曼哈顿办公室里。这个年轻人没有政府工作经验，没有政治背景，在特朗普的竞选活动中也没有官方头衔，他就是贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)。
Kushner held court at length with Dermer, doing his best to engage in the same sort of high-level conversation that the ambassador conducted with career diplomats and policy experts from Hillary Clinton’s campaign.
库什纳终于接见了德默尔，并尽最大努力与他进行高级别的对话。在希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)那边进行类似的对话时，德默尔大使见到的可是其竞选团队中的职业外交官和政策专家。
A 35-year-old real estate developer, investor and newspaper publisher, Kushner derives his authority in the campaign not from a traditional résumé but from a marital vow. He is Trump’s son-in-law.
库什纳是一名35岁的房地产开发商、投资者和报纸出版商，他在竞选中获得的权威，靠的不是传统的履历，而是婚姻。他是特朗普的女婿。
Yet in a gradual but unmistakable fashion, Kushner has become involved in virtually every facet of the Trump presidential operation, so much so that many inside and out of it increasingly see him as a de facto campaign manager. Kushner, who is married to Trump’s daughter Ivanka, helped recruit a sorely needed director of communications, oversaw the creation of an online fundraising system and has had a hand in drafting Trump’s few policy speeches. And now that Trump has secured the Republican nomination, Kushner is counseling his father-in-law on the selection of a running mate.
然而，库什纳以一种渐进但明确的方式，实际参与了特朗普总统竞选的方方面面，以至于很多圈内外人士越来越把他视为事实上的竞选经理。库什纳的妻子是特朗普的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)，是他帮助招募了一位急需的传讯主任，操持网络筹款系统的创建，还帮助起草了特朗普寥寥无几的几篇政策演讲。现在特朗普已经获得了共和党提名，库什纳正在为岳父选择竞选搭档的事情提供建议。
It is a new and unlikely role for Kushner, a conspicuously polite Harvard graduate whose prominent New Jersey family bankrolled Democrats for decades and whose father’s reputation was destroyed, in a highly public and humiliating manner, by his involvement in electoral politics.
对库什纳来说，这是一个出乎预料的新角色。他是一名彬彬有礼的哈佛毕业生，来自一个显赫的新泽西家族，这个家族几十年来一直为民主党提供资助，而库什纳对选举政治的参与，以一种众所周知、令人难堪的方式，破坏了他父亲的声誉。
Now, in a Shakespearean turn, Kushner is working side by side with the former federal prosecutor who put his father, Charles Kushner, in prison just over 10 years ago: Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, whom Trump named as a top adviser. Kushner originally voiced objections to Trump about the appointment, but Kushner and Christie have since become wary allies in seeking to impose greater discipline on Trump’s unconventional campaign.
现在，就像莎士比亚戏剧中的转折一样，库什纳正在和一位10年前让他父亲查尔斯·库什纳(Charles Kushner)身陷囹圄的前联邦检察官合作，也就是被特朗普任命为高级顾问的新泽西州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)。库什纳最初对这个任命持反对态度，但现在他和克里斯蒂已经成为谨慎的盟友，希望能对特朗普这个反常规的竞选活动进行更多的规范。
Much about the Trump candidacy seems at odds with Kushner’s personality and biography: An Orthodox Jew and grandson of Holocaust survivors, Kushner is now at the center of a campaign that has been embraced by white nationalists and anti-Semites.
特朗普竞选活动的很多元素，似乎与库什纳的个性和经历存在着矛盾：库什纳是一个正统的犹太人，是大屠杀幸存者的孙子，而现在他在一场受白人民族主义者和反犹太主义者拥护的竞选活动中成为核心人物。
Kushner’s friends say he has expressed no concern to them about his father-in-law’s behavior. On Saturday, Trump created a firestorm after posting an image on Twitter featuring a picture of Clinton with six-pointed star and a pile of cash, which had previously appeared on a website known for anti-Semitism. (On Monday, Trump said on Twitter that it was not a Star of David, but a sheriff’s or a plain star.) Kushner believes that his father-in-law’s respect for his Jewish faith is sincere, his friends said, and that the issue is not worth addressing.
库什纳的朋友说，他没有向他们表示过对岳父的行为感到担忧。上周六，特朗普在Twitter上贴出一幅图，上面有克林顿的照片、一颗六角星以及一堆现金，这张图此前曾出现在一个反犹太主义网站上。（本周一，特朗普在Twitter上说，这不是大卫之星(Star of David)，而是警长徽章，或就是普通的六角星。）库什纳的朋友说，他认为岳父对自己犹太信仰的尊重是真诚的，这个问题不足挂齿。
Kushner’s role was described in more than two dozen interviews with friends, colleagues and campaign staff members, some of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity so they could disclose interactions that were supposed to remain private. Kushner declined to be interviewed.
对于库什纳的角色，我们采访了他的20多个朋友、同事和竞选工作人员，其中一些人要求不具名，以便可以透露一些本来不应该公开的事情。库什纳本人拒绝接受采访。
In many ways, he has filled a vacuum in a startlingly small organization that has had no official manager since the June ouster of Corey Lewandowski, which Kushner advocated, and that has fallen far behind in building a 50-state campaign. But his real power, his friends said, stems from his close relationship with Trump, who has long preferred the advice of family over political professionals and who sees in Kushner a younger version of himself.
在很多方面，他已经填补了这个团队的一个空缺，自从科里·莱万多夫斯基(Corey Lewandowski)6月下台之后，这个小的惊人的竞选团队就没有任命正式的竞选经理。库什纳支持辞退万多夫斯基，而面对一场覆盖50个州的竞选活动，这个团队的工作进度严重滞后。但他的朋友说，他的真正优势来自于他和特朗普的密切关系，特朗普一直重视家人的看法更甚于政界专业人士的意见，他觉得库什纳和自己年轻的时候很相像。
“Jared is an amazing son-in-law, and we are very close,” Trump said in a statement, describing him as “a big and bold thinker.”
“贾里德是一个非常出色的女婿，我们的关系非常密切，”特朗普在一份声明中称赞他是“一个大气、大胆的思想者”。
For both men — the privileged sons of quick-tempered and domineering real estate tycoons — the legacies of their fathers loom large. More than 30 years after Trump took command of the Trump Organization and built the Grand Hyatt Hotel and Trump Tower, Kushner tapped his own family empire, Kushner Cos., to buy a Fifth Avenue skyscraper and become part owner of a giant office complex near the Brooklyn waterfront.
两个人都出身富贵之家，父亲都是暴躁而霸道的房地产大亨，他们都处在巨大的父荫笼罩之下。特朗普掌管特朗普集团30多年，修建了君悦酒店(Grand Hyatt Hotel)和特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)之后，库什纳通过自己的家族帝国库什纳公司(Kushner Cos.)收购了第五大道的一座摩天大楼，并成为布鲁克林海滨附近一座巨型办公楼的业主之一。
“My father looked at the deals Jared was doing and saw himself in those deals,” Ivanka Trump said.
“我父亲看过贾里德在做的交易，并从那些交易中看到了自己的影子，”伊万卡·特朗普说。
But the parallels end there. Trump came to Manhattan to outstrip his father’s success; Kushner was seeking to redeem his family’s tarnished name.
但相似之处仅止于此。特朗普来到曼哈顿是为了超越他父亲的成功，而库什纳则是要争取挽回受损的家族声誉。
The elder Kushner built the family’s real estate business into a multibillion-dollar empire of apartments and land until he was sent to federal prison in 2005 for tax evasion, witness tampering and illegal campaign donations, many of them to Democratic candidates.
老库什纳将家族的房地产企业打造成了一个价值数十亿美元的帝国，资产包括公寓和土地，后来却在2005年因为逃税、干扰证人和非法竞选捐款而被投入联邦监狱，其中很多捐款都是捐给民主党候选人的。
The case involved a traumatic and tawdry family feud: At one point, Charles Kushner sought to retaliate against his brother-in-law, who was cooperating with the federal authorities, by hiring a woman to seduce him and videotape the encounter. “Vile and heinous” was how Christie, then the U.S. attorney for New Jersey, described the conduct.
该案涉及一场痛苦且龌龊的家族争斗：查尔斯·库什纳一度试图报复与联邦当局合作的妹夫，方式是雇佣一名女子引诱对方并将两人在一起的场面录下来。当时担任新泽西州联邦检察官的克里斯蒂称这种行为“卑劣、十恶不赦”。
Almost overnight, Jared Kushner, 24 years old and still a student at law school, became the public face of the family business. On weekdays, he toured construction sites; on weekends, he flew to Alabama to visit his father in prison. The two remain exceedingly close: For years, Jared Kushner used a wallet that his father had made in prison.
几乎是在一夜之间，还在法学院就读的24岁的贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)成为了家族企业的代言人。工作日，他巡视建筑工地；周末则飞往阿拉巴马州探望狱中的父亲。两人依然非常亲近：在好几年的时间里，贾里德·库什纳一直用着父亲在狱中为他制作的一个钱包。
Kushner does not like to talk about his father’s travails, but they plainly left a mark on him. At his son’s recent bris, he spoke of his wish for the newborn: “May life be hard enough that you grow, but not so hard that you break.”
库什纳不喜欢谈论父亲经历的艰辛，但它们显然在他身上留下了印记。在最近给自己的儿子行割礼时，他如此祝福这个新生儿：“愿生活有一定艰辛，让你能获得成长，但又不会过度辛苦，以致压垮你。”
In 2006, with the family’s wounds from the scandal still fresh,Kushner bought The New York Observer, a small newspaper aimed at the city’s social, political and real estate elite. A stranger to the culture of a publication that delighted in needling the rich and powerful, he initially floundered as a publisher, alienating reporters and cycling through a series of editors before landing on an old friend of the Kushner family, Ken Kurson. In April, the newspaper, which under its previous ownership made a sport of mocking Trump, enthusiastically endorsed his presidential bid.
在2006年，家族丑闻的创伤记忆犹新时，库什纳便买下了《纽约观察家》(The New York Observer)。这是一份主要针对纽约社会、政治和房地产精英的报纸，发行量不大。该刊物的文化鼓励了那些让权贵人士如坐针毡的报道。作为一个外来者，他这个出版人最初做得比较艰难，不受记者喜爱，他接连换了好几任总编，直到把这一职位交给了库什纳家族的一个老朋友肯·克尔森(Ken Kurson)。没被库什纳收购之前，这份报纸尤其喜欢嘲讽特朗普。今年4月，该报为特朗普的竞选大力背书。
In March, after Trump inflamed Jewish leaders with an improvised vow to remain “neutral” in dealings with Israel and Palestinians, that Kushner emerged as an unchallenged force in the campaign.
今年3月，在特朗普即兴承诺在处理以色列和巴勒斯坦的问题上继续保持“中立”，激怒犹太人领袖之后，库什纳成为了特朗普团队内不容质疑的角色。
He worked the phones to placate angry Republicans and urged Trump to deliver a pre-written, unequivocally pro-Israel speech in front of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the influential lobbying group known as AIPAC. Kushner even solicited advice from Kurson, the Observer editor.
他打电话安抚愤怒的共和党人，力劝特朗普在颇具影响力的游说团体美国以色列公共事务委员会（American Israel Public Affairs Committee，简称AIPAC）按事先写好的讲稿发表明确支持以色列的讲话。
Kushner’s first major foray into foreign policy did not go off without a hitch. At one point in the speech, Trump mocked President Barack Obama, prompting AIPAC to condemn those remarks. Kushner was furious at the group, but in the eyes of Trump, it had been a success.
库什纳在外交政策方面的第一个重要尝试没能顺利进行。在这次演讲中间，特朗普嘲笑了美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)，导致AIPAC对这些言论予以谴责。库什纳对该团体感到大为光火，但在特朗普看来，这次演讲非常成功。
Donors, policy experts and Republican leaders regularly reach out to him as a gatekeeper to the candidate. And with increasing frequency, Trump turns to Kushner throughout the day for feedback.
捐赠者、政策专家和共和党领袖经常找上门来，把他当做这位候选人的看门人。随着这种频率越来越高，特朗普随时都会联系库什，听取他的意见。
“I’ve been with Jared and the phone will ring, and it will be Trump soliciting Jared’s opinion,” Kurson said.
“我和贾里德在一起的时候，电话铃会响起来，往往是特朗普在向贾里德征询意见，”科尔森说。
Kushner does not always wait for Trump to call. He pushed behind the scenes, along with Trump’s three oldest children, for the dismissal of Lewandowski, a polarizing figure who had overseen Trump’s primary campaign and begun to see Kushner as an internal rival.
库什纳不是永远被动地等特朗普打电话。他和特朗普三个最大的子女在幕后推动，竭力罢免了莱万多夫斯基(Lewandowski)。后者是一个毁誉参半的人物，之前负责特朗普的初选事务，后来渐渐把库什纳当做了自己的内部竞争对手。
Unlike his father-in-law, with his seemingly bottomless appetite for conflict, Kushner is, by all accounts, soft-spoken and restrained. In the midst of a difficult real estate negotiation a few years ago, the Swatch-wearing Kushner playfully proposed an unconventional solution to a standoff: an arm-wrestling match.
特朗普对制造冲突的喜爱似乎永无止境，但库什纳和他的岳父不同，据大家所说，他是一个言语温和、低调内敛的人。几年前，在一场非常困难的房地产项目谈判中，佩戴着斯沃琪(Swatch)手表的库什纳略带玩笑地提了一个非常规的建议，以便打破僵局：扳手腕。
“It was such a simple way to resolve a conflict when the conflict didn’t need to be there in the first place,” said his counterpart in the negotiation, Adam Neumann, a founder of WeWork, which provides shared work spaces to entrepreneurs.
“在冲突一开始就不该出现的情况下，这是解决它的极为简单的办法，”他在那场谈判中的对手、WeWork创始人亚当·诺伊曼(Adam Neumann)说。该公司为创业人士提供共享的办公场地。
Kushner lost.
库什纳输了。
He is, Neumann said, “the opposite of a traditional New York developer.”
诺伊曼说，他“和传统的纽约开发商截然不同”。
But not entirely. Kushner, whose dimpled cheeks and baby face are a fixture of society pages, has embraced the trappings of a mogul. He moved with his wife into a penthouse of a Trump-branded tower on Park Avenue and courted the friendship of Rupert Murdoch, the founder of Fox News, whose young daughters were flower girls at Kushner’s wedding to Ivanka Trump.
情况并不完全如此。长着娃娃脸，脸带酒窝的库什纳是社交场所的常客，完全接纳了大亨们的那一套。他和妻子搬进了公园大道上一座打着特朗普品牌的大厦内的顶层豪华公寓，并主动出击，去赢得福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)创始人鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的友谊。默多克的小女儿们曾在库什纳和伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)的婚礼上担任花童。
Now, between flights with Trump and the flurry of campaign calls and meetings, Kushner is devoting far less time to his real estate empire.
现在，库什纳一边忙于陪着特朗普到处飞，一边忙着应对连串的竞选电话和会议，他对自己的房地产帝国投入的时间比过去少得多。
His father-in-law, whose own eyes have been known to drift away from real estate, seems to approve.
他的岳父似乎对此没有意见，众所周知，他自己的注意力也渐渐远离了房地产。
“Despite his great business success,” Trump said in a statement, “he has the right priorities — family first.”
“尽管他在商业上获得了巨大的成功，”特朗普在一份声明中表示。“但他有着正确的优先考量顺序——家庭第一。”