The June 3, 2016, email sent to Donald Trump Jr. could hardly have been more explicit: One of his father’s former Russian business partners had been contacted by a senior Russian government official and was offering to provide the Trump campaign with dirt on Hillary Clinton.
2016年6月3日，小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)收到了一封极为直白的电邮：一名俄罗斯政府高级官员找到他父亲的一名前商业伙伴，想要提供关于希拉里·克林顿的黑料给特朗普的竞选团队。
The documents “would incriminate Hillary and her dealings with Russia and would be very useful to your father,” read the email, written by a trusted intermediary, who added, “This is obviously very high level and sensitive information but is part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.”
这些材料“可用来表明希拉里以及她与俄罗斯的来往是有罪的，对你的父亲非常有用”，他信任的一个中间人在电邮中写道。“这显然是价值非常高的机密信息，但也是俄罗斯及其政府支持特朗普先生的一部分。”
If the future president’s eldest son was surprised or disturbed by the provenance of the promised material — or the notion that it was part of a continuing effort by the Russian government to aid his father’s campaign — he gave no indication.
这位未来总统的长子对于电邮中所承诺的那些材料的来源是否感到惊讶或不安——或者对于此举作为俄罗斯政府持续帮助其父竞选总统努力的一部分是否感到了惊讶或不安——他并没有表现出来。
He replied within minutes: “If it’s what you say I love it especially later in the summer.”
数分钟内他就回复说：“如果真如你说的那样，我很喜欢，特别在夏天晚些时候。”
Four days later, after a flurry of emails, the intermediary wrote back, proposing a meeting in New York on Thursday with a “Russian government attorney.”
四天之后，经过一番邮件往返，那名中间人在回信中提议周四在纽约和“俄罗斯政府的一名律师”会面。
Donald Trump Jr. agreed, adding that he would most likely bring along “Paul Manafort (campaign boss)” and “my brother-in-law,” Jared Kushner, now one of the president’s closest White House advisers.
小唐纳德·特朗普同意了，表示很有可能会带上保罗·马纳福特（Paul Manafort，当时的竞选经理）和妹夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)一起参加会面，现在库什纳已经是特朗普总统最亲密的白宫顾问之一。
On June 9, the Russian lawyer was sitting in the younger Trump’s office on the 25th floor of Trump Tower, just one level below the office of the future president.
6月9日，这名俄罗斯律师坐在了特朗普大厦25楼小特朗普的办公室，而未来的总统就在26楼办公。
Over the last several days, The New York Times has disclosed the existence of the meeting, whom it involved and what it was about. The story has unfolded as The Times has been able to confirm details of the meetings.
在过去几天里，《纽约时报》曝光了这次会面的存在、有谁参加、涉及什么内容。在时报确认会面细节的过程中，这个故事变得清晰起来。
But the email exchanges, which were reviewed by The Times, offer a detailed unspooling of how the meeting with the Kremlin-connected Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, came about — and just how eager Donald Trump Jr. was to accept what he was explicitly told was the Russian government’s help.
时报看到的电邮往来，详细展示了他们和拥有克里姆林宫背景的俄罗斯律师娜塔莉娅·维塞尼茨卡雅(Natalia Veselnitskaya)之间会面的缘起，以及小唐纳德·特朗普多么乐于接受明知是来自俄罗斯政府的帮助。
The Justice Department, as well as the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, is examining whether any of Trump’s associates colluded with the Russian government to disrupt last year’s election. U.S. intelligence agencies have determined that the Russian government tried to sway the election in favor of Trump.
司法部以及众议院和参议院情报委员会正在调查特朗普的助手是否与俄罗斯政府勾结，扰乱去年的总统选举。美国情报机构已经确认，俄罗斯政府试图让选举向有利于特朗普的方向发展。
The precise nature of the promised damaging information about Clinton is unclear, and there is no evidence to suggest that it was related to Russian-government computer hacking that led to the release of thousands of Democratic National Committee emails. But in recent days, accounts by some of the central organizers of the meeting, including Donald Trump Jr., have evolved or have been contradicted by the written email records.
电邮中说所的关于克林顿的黑料，其确切性质尚不清楚，也没有证据表明它与俄罗斯政府的计算机黑客行动有关，该行动曾导致了民主党全国委员会成千上万封的电邮被公开。但近日来，那次会面的一些核心参与者的说法，包括小唐纳德·特朗普在内，已经有了变化，或与电邮记录出现矛盾。
After being told that The Times was about to publish the content of the emails, instead of responding to a request for comment, Donald Trump Jr. tweeted out images of them himself Tuesday.
在被告知时报即将发布电邮内容之后，小唐纳德·特朗普没有回应置评请求，而是于周二在推特上发布了电邮的截图。
“To everyone, in order to be totally transparent, I am releasing the entire email chain of my emails” about the June 9 meeting, he wrote. “I first wanted to just have a phone call but when that didn’t work out, they said the woman would be in New York and asked if I would meet.”
“致所有人：为了完全透明起见，我在此发布”关于6月9日会面的“所有相关电邮往来”。他写道，“我最初是想打电话沟通，但没成功，他们说这个女人会到纽约来，问我是否要和她见面。”
He added that nothing came of it.
他还说，那次会面没有取得任何成果。
On Monday, Donald Trump Jr. said on Twitter that it was hardly unusual to take information on an opponent. And on Tuesday morning, he tweeted, “Media & Dems are extremely invested in the Russia story. If this nonsense meeting is all they have after a yr, I understand the desperation!”
周一，小唐纳德·特朗普在Twitter上表示，获取对手的信息并不是什么新鲜事。周二早上，他发推称，“媒体和民主党对俄罗斯故事投入了极大的精力。如果这场没有任何意义的会议是他们花费一年时间才得到的全部信息，我能理解他们的绝望！”
At a White House briefing Tuesday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, deputy press secretary, read a statement from President Donald Trump in which he defended his son. “My son is a high-quality person, and I applaud his transparency,” the president said.
周二，副新闻秘书萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在白宫的简报会上宣读了唐纳德·特朗普总统的一项声明，他在声明中维护自己的儿子。“我的儿子是一个品德高尚的人，我赞赏他的坦荡，”总统说。
But Sanders said she was “going to have to refer everything on this matter to Don Jr.'s counsel.” She said she did not know when the president had last spoken with his son.
不过桑德斯表示“会将所有关于此事的问题交由小唐纳德的律师来回答”。她表示，她不知道总统上次与儿子交谈是什么时候。
The backstory to the June 9 meeting involves an eclectic cast of characters the Trump family knew from its business dealings in Moscow.
6月9日会晤的幕后故事，涉及特朗普家族在莫斯科经商时结识的一群身份各异的人物。
The initial email outreach came from Rob Goldstone, a British-born former tabloid reporter and entertainment publicist who first met the future president when the Trump Organization was trying to do business in Russia.
最初的邮件来自英国出生的前小报记者、娱乐公关人士罗伯·戈德斯通(Rob Goldstone)。特朗普集团尝试在俄罗斯开展业务期间，戈德斯通结识了这位未来的总统。
In the June 3 email, Goldstone told Donald Trump Jr. that he was writing on behalf of a mutual friend, one of Russia’s biggest pop music stars, Emin Agalarov. Emin, who professionally uses his first name only, is the son of Aras Agalarov, a real estate tycoon sometimes called the “Donald Trump of Russia.”
在6月3日的电子邮件中，戈德斯通对小唐纳德·特朗普说，自己代表的是他们共同的朋友、俄罗斯著名流行歌星叶明·阿加拉罗夫(Emin Agalarov)。叶明在演艺事业中只用自己的名。他是有“俄罗斯唐纳德·特朗普”之称的地产大亨阿拉斯·阿加拉罗夫(Aras Agalarov)的儿子。
The elder Agalarov boasts close ties to President Vladimir Putin of Russia: His company has won several large state building contracts, and Putin awarded him the “Order of Honor of the Russian Federation.”
阿拉斯·阿加拉罗夫经常吹嘘自己与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)关系密切：他的公司获得了几项大型国家建设合同，普京曾授予他“俄罗斯联邦荣誉勋章”(Order of Honor of the Russian Federation)。
Agalarov joined with the elder Trump to bring the Miss Universe contest to Moscow in 2013, and the Trump and Agalarov families grew relatively close.
阿加拉罗夫和老特朗普一起将2013年环球小姐大赛(Miss Universe)带到了莫斯科，特朗普家族和阿加拉罗夫家族的关系变得比较密切。
Goldstone’s emails contradict statements he made in his interview with The Times on Monday, when he said that he did not know whether the elder Agalarov had any role in arranging the meeting, and that he had no knowledge of any official Russian government role in the offer to provide the Trump campaign with dirt on Clinton. Instead, he said that Veselnitskaya had contacted Emin directly, and that Emin had asked him to reach out to the Trumps as a favor to her.
戈德斯通的电子邮件与他周一接受时报采访时所做的声明相冲突，当时他说，他不知道老阿加拉罗夫是否参与安排了这次会晤，也不知道俄罗斯政府是否参与为特朗普竞选团队提供克林顿的黑材料。而他在邮件中则说，维塞尼茨卡雅直接与叶明联系，叶明为了帮助维塞尼茨卡雅而让他与特朗普家族联系。
Kushner recently disclosed the fact of the meeting, though not the content, in a revised form on which all those seeking top secret security clearances are required to list contacts with foreign government officials and their representatives. The Times reported in April that he had failed to list a number of Russian contacts, which his lawyer called an error.
前不久，库什纳透露确实有过这次会晤，不过没有透露会议内容。他是通过一份经过修订的表格透露这一消息的，该表要求所有申请最高密级权限的人列出与外国政府官员及其代表的联系。今年4月，时报报道过，他没有列出他在俄罗斯的很多联系人，他的律师说那是失误。
Manafort also disclosed that a meeting had occurred, and that Donald Trump Jr. had organized it, in response to one of the Russia-related congressional investigations.
马纳福特在回应与俄罗斯相关的国会调查时也曾透露说，确实有过一次会晤，是小唐纳德·特朗普组织的。
Representatives for both men did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
两人的代表都没有立即回复置评请求。
Veselnitskaya arrived the next day and was ushered into Donald Trump Jr.'s office for a meeting with what amounted to the Trump campaign’s brain trust.
维塞尼茨卡雅次日到达，被领入小唐纳德·特朗普的办公室，与会者是特朗普竞选团队的智囊团。
Besides having politically connected clients, one of whom was under investigation by federal prosecutors at the time of the meeting, Veselnitskaya is well known for her lobbying efforts against the Magnitsky Act, a 2012 law that punishes designated Russian human rights abusers by allowing the United States to seize their assets and keep them from entering the country. The law so angered Putin that he retaliated by barring American families from adopting Russian children. Her activities and associations have brought her to the attention of the FBI, according to a former senior law enforcement official.
维塞尼茨卡雅除了拥有具有政治背景的客户——其中一位在那次会晤期间正遭到联邦检察官调查——她还以游说反对“马格尼茨基法案”(Magnitsky Act)闻名。那部2012年的法案旨在惩罚某些涉嫌侵犯人权的俄罗斯人，允许美国没收他们的财产，禁止他们进入美国。这项法案令普京大为愤怒，他通过禁止美国家庭收养俄罗斯儿童进行报复。据一位前高级执法官员称，她的活动和交往引起了FBI的注意。
A spokesman for Putin said Monday that he did not know Veselnitskaya and that he had no knowledge of the June 2016 meeting.
周一，普京的一位发言人表示，普京不认识维塞尼茨卡雅，对2016年6月的会晤毫不知情。
Back in Washington, both the White House and a spokesman for Trump’s lawyer have taken pains to distance the president from the meeting, saying that he did he not attend it and that he learned about it only recently.
在华盛顿，白宫和特朗普律师的一位发言人努力撇清总统与那次会晤的关系，称总统没有参加那次会晤，并且是最近才听说这件事。
Agalarov did not respond to a request for comment.
阿加拉罗夫没有回应置评请求。
Emin, the pop star at the center of it all, will not comment on the matter, either, Goldstone, his publicist, said on Monday.
周一，该事件的中心人物、流行歌星叶明的公关员戈德斯通表示，他也不会就此事作出评论。