WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump thrust himself into a bitter Persian Gulf dispute Tuesday, claiming credit for Saudi Arabia’s move to isolate its smaller neighbor, Qatar, which is a major U.S. military partner.
华盛顿——周二，特朗普总统主动卷入波斯湾的一场激烈争端中，声称沙特阿拉伯孤立较小的邻国卡塔尔是他的功劳。卡塔尔是美国的一个重要军事伙伴。
“During my recent trip to the Middle East I stated that there can no longer be funding of Radical Ideology,” Trump said in a morning tweet. “Leaders pointed to Qatar — look!”
“最近访问中东时，我曾表示不能再为激进意识形态提供资金了，”特朗普早晨在一条推文中说。“各国领导人指向卡塔尔——看吧！”
On Monday, Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen broke diplomatic and commercial ties with Qatar, citing its support for terrorist groups. Trump, who made the cutting of terrorist funding a centerpiece of his trip to Saudi Arabia in May, said he was responsible.
本周一，巴林、埃及、沙特阿拉伯、阿拉伯联合酋长国和也门以卡塔尔支持恐怖主义组织为由，断绝了与该国的外交和商业关系。特朗普声称自己对此事负责，他5月份访问沙特阿拉伯时，把切断恐怖主义的资金作为了一个核心议题。
“So good to see the Saudi Arabia visit with the King and 50 countries already paying off,” the president said on Twitter. “They said they would take a hard line on funding.”
“很高兴看到我前往沙特阿拉伯拜访国王和50个国家已经获得了回报，”特朗普在Twitter上表示：“他们表示在恐怖主义资金的事情上不会手软。”
Qatar has long been accused of funneling arms and money to radical groups in Syria, Libya and other Arab countries. But so has Saudi Arabia. And Trump’s tweets have huge potential strategic consequences in the Middle East, where Qatar is a crucial military outpost for the United States.
长期以来，一直有人指责卡塔尔将武器和金钱运送给叙利亚、利比亚和其他阿拉伯国家的激进团体。但沙特阿拉伯也曾遭到过这种指责。卡塔尔是美国重要的军事前哨基地，特朗普的推文可能在中东产生巨大的战略影响。
Qatar is home to the forward headquarters of the U.S. Central Command. It is a major intelligence hub for the United States in the Middle East and the base where the United States plans and carries out airstrikes on the Islamic State group.
卡塔尔是美国中央司令部的前方总部所在地。它是美国在中东的一个重要情报中心，也是美国规划和执行对伊斯兰国(IS)开展空袭的基地。
Trump’s comments were a sharp break from his top national security aides, who tried to play down any impact of the rift within the Sunni-Arab coalition that is helping the United States fight the Islamic State.
特朗普的言论和他的高级国家安全助手的做法形成了巨大反差，助手们试图淡化逊尼派—阿拉伯联盟内部这起纷争的影响；该联盟正在帮助美国打击伊斯兰国。
“We certainly would encourage the parties to sit down together and address these differences,” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson told reporters in Sydney, where he and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis were meeting with officials.
“我们当然会鼓励各方一起坐下来解决这些分歧，”国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)在悉尼对记者说。他和国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)在那里与澳大利亚官员举行会晤。
At the Pentagon, some Defense Department officials said they were taken aback by Trump’s decision to thrust the United States into the middle of a fight with its close partners, particularly given the U.S. military’s deep ties to Qatar.
在五角大楼，一些国防部官员表示，特朗普把美国卷入到亲密伙伴的纷争中让他们很惊讶，特别是考虑到美军与卡塔尔的深厚关系。
Al Udeid base, outside of Doha, is home to around 10,000 U.S. troops.
位于多哈城外的乌代德空军基地驻扎着约1万名美军。
Several Defense Department officials said that Trump’s tweets had undercut the Pentagon, particularly given how crucial Al Udeid base is to the war against the Islamic State.
国防部的几名官员说，特朗普的推文不利于五角大楼，特别是考虑到乌代德基地对打击伊斯兰国的战争来说有多么重要。