CLEVELAND — “Tiffany! Tiffany!” a middle-aged Republican delegate yelled to Donald J. Trump’s 22-year-old daughter on the floor of theRepublican National Convention Wednesday night. “You were amazing last night,” he said of her speech.
克利夫兰――“蒂芙妮(Tiffany)！蒂芙妮！”周三晚上共和党全国代表大会的会场，一个中年共和党代表叫着唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)22岁的女儿。“你昨天晚上棒极了，”他指的是她的演说。
She smiled, cocked her head gratefully and thanked him.
她微微一笑，感激地转过头来向他致谢。
On the streets outside the convention, a young woman approached Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s 34-year-old daughter, to ask for a selfie with her, which the woman instantly posted on Instagram. “Week. Just. Made,” the woman enthused in a caption under the photograph.
会场外的街头上，有个年轻女人走近特朗普34岁的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)，请求与她来张自拍，后来那女人马上把这张照片传上了Instagram。“本、周、大、事，”她热情地写了这样一条图说。
And on the floor of the Quicken Loans Arena, a man playfully asked Eric Trump, Mr. Trump’s 32-year-old son, for a bottle of his family’s wine. “That’s what everyone needs,” Mr. Trump replied playfully. “More wine.”
在奎肯·洛恩斯体育场，一个男人开玩笑地向特朗普32岁的儿子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)索要一瓶他家出的红酒。特朗普也开玩笑地回答道，“所有人都需要更多的酒。”
Donald J. Trump may be the nominee, but here in Cleveland, his children are the attraction. Amid a sometimes chaotic convention — punctuated by a delegate rebellion and plagiarism in the speech by the candidate’s wife — they are redefining the traditional role of a candidate’s children and emerging as celebrities in their own right.
诚然，唐纳德·J·特朗普才是提名人，但是在克利夫兰，他的孩子们才是焦点。这场吵闹的大会中点缀着一位代表的叛变，以及特朗普妻子演讲词的抄袭事件，特朗普的孩子们则在其中重新定义了候选人子女的角色，他们自己也成了名人。
“They’re mainly the reason why everyone is here,” said Alisha Curtis, 31, who works in the Arkansas governor’s office and stopped Ivanka Trump on the street Wednesday for a photo that she then blasted out over social media. “I’m very impressed with his children in general.”
“所有人主要是来看他们的，”31岁的艾丽莎·柯蒂斯(Alisha Curtis)说，她就是那位周三在街头拦住伊万卡·特朗普合影，并在社交网络上夸耀的人，目前在阿肯色州长办公室工作。“总体上说，他的孩子给我留下了很好的印象。”
Acting as a political SWAT team, the Trumps have arrived here with different, but complementary missions.
特朗普一家如同一支政治特警队，他们在大会上分别承担了完全不同但彼此互补的职责。
Ivanka Trump has played the ambassador, personally meeting with Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire Republican donor, whose willingness to open his wallet for her father could prove crucial in the general election this fall. Many doubted he would ever back Mr. Trump.
伊万卡·特朗普充当大使，她和共和党赞助人、亿万富翁谢尔顿·阿德尔森(Sheldon Adelson)会面，阿德尔森是否愿为特朗普慷慨解囊，这一点可能在今年秋天的大选中起到关键性作用。很多人都怀疑他是否支持特朗普。
Donald Trump Jr., 38, has played the enforcer, denouncing Corey Lewandowski, his father’s former campaign manager, as a “bitter” figure who is out to hurt his father’s bid for the White House. “Enough is enough,” he thundered.
38岁的小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)充当执行者角色，他指责父亲的前竞选经理科里·莱万多夫斯基(Corey Lewandowski)是个“可恶”的人物，令父亲的竞选生涯蒙受损失。“够了够了，”他大发雷霆。
And Tiffany Trump has played the validator, divulging rare personal details about her father’s style of parenting, like his habit of jotting handwritten notes across her high school report cards.
而蒂芙尼·特朗普则扮演证实者的角色，她偶尔泄露一点特朗普在教育子女方面的私人信息，比如他习惯在她的高中成绩单上字迹潦草地写下一些话。
The attention they have drawn, flattering and relentless, has caught the Trump siblings off guard. “After November, if I never take a selfie again, it will be too soon,” Donald Trump Jr. said with a laugh in a telephone interview here on Wednesday.
特朗普的子女们源源不断地受到各种奉承的关注，有时令他们有些口不择言。“过了11月之后，我就再也不用理会自拍请求了，”星期三，小唐纳德·特朗普在接受电话采访时大笑着说。
But the affection from strangers, he added, was deeply humbling. “It is an honor,” he said.
但是，他补充说，陌生人对他们的喜爱都非常谦逊。“这是我的荣幸，”他说。
It is a complicated role for a complicated family. Mr. Trump has five children from three marriages: Donald Jr., Ivanka, and Eric with his first wife, Ivana Trump; Tiffany with his second, Marla Maples; and 10-year-old Barron, who has not yet made an appearance, with his current wife, Melania Trump.
这是一个复杂的家庭，每个角色都很复杂。特朗普的三次婚姻为他带来了五个孩子：小唐纳德、伊万卡和埃里克是第一个妻子伊万娜·特朗普(Ivana Trump)生的；蒂芬妮是和他的第二任妻子玛拉·马普尔斯(Marla Maples)生的；10岁的巴戎(Barron)目前还不曾公开露面，是和他的现任妻子梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)所生。
The Trump siblings are perhaps their father’s most powerful messengers — successful, attractive, eloquent figures who lack his hard-edge style and pugilistic instincts.
特朗普的子女们或许是父亲最有力的信使——他们都是成功、迷人、雄辩的角色，同时没有他本人身上那种棱角和拳击手的本能。
Mr. Trump, by his children’s own admission, was not always a hands-on-father. “I don’t know what it’s like to have a typical father figure,” Tiffany Trump once told an interviewer. “He’s not the dad who’s going to take me to the beach and go swimming, but he’s such a motivational person.”
根据孩子们自己所承认的，特朗普并不是一个随时陪伴身边的父亲。“我不知道典型的父亲是什么样的，”蒂芬妮·特朗普曾经在采访中说。“他不是那种带我去海边游泳的父亲，但他是那么能激励人的一个人。”
But in Cleveland over the past few days, Mr. Trump’s children and son-in-law, Jared Kushner — all of whom make up his political cabinet — are his unwavering cheerleaders and unified defenders.
但在过去几天的克利夫兰，特朗普的子女们和女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)构成了他的政治顾问团，充当他坚定的啦啦队员和保护人角色。
Donald Trump Jr. traveled to a suburb of Cleveland on Tuesday morning to mingle with delegates from Pennsylvania over breakfast, doing his best to relate to them: He recalled attending prep school and college in their state and described his love of hunting in its woods.
星期二一早，小唐纳德·特朗普来到克利夫兰郊外，和宾夕法尼亚的代表们共进早餐，竭力笼络他们：他回忆起自己在宾夕法尼亚读预科和大学的经历，还说自己喜欢在那儿的林中狩猎。
“He was basically saying he’s one of us and understands the values of Pennsylvania,” said Marc Scaringi, a delegate who attended the event.
“他说他是我们的一员，他理解宾夕法尼亚州的价值观，”与会代表马克·斯卡林吉(Marc Scaringi)说。
Eric Trump has participated in meetings here about how his father’s White House would operate and who would hold top positions in his cabinet.
埃里克·特朗普在这里参加了父亲当选后如何执政、内阁的重要席位将由谁担任的会议。
And between television interviews, the three oldest children personally thanked early supporters of their father, including Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, providing crucial face time when Mr. Trump was traveling outside Cleveland. (Mr. Trump likes to return home every night, and Melania Trump has proved a reluctant campaigner).
在接受电视采访间隙，三位最年长的子女亲自感谢了父亲的早期支持者，其中包括阿肯色州州长阿萨·哈钦森(Asa Hutchinson)，在特朗普离开克利夫兰期间提供了重要的曝光时间（特朗普希望每天晚上都回家，梅拉尼娅·特朗普则被证明是一个不情不愿的竞选者）。
“My father can’t be everywhere at all times,” Donald Trump Jr. said, explaining that he and his siblings are “able to show up and go places and meet with people who have been instrumental in the campaign.”
“我父亲分身乏术，”小唐纳德·特朗普解释说，他和弟弟妹妹们“可以公开去往各地，会见对选举有帮助的人们。”
“We want to show them the respect and give them the time they deserve,” he said.
“我们想向他们表示尊敬，为他们付出他们应得的时间，”他说。
Their powerful place in the campaign is not lost on Republican Party leaders. On Wednesday night, Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, accompanied the siblings between the convention hall and their hotel and introduced them to prominent donors and leaders.
他们在竞选中的有利地位也赢得了共和党的领袖们。星期三晚上，共和党全国委员会主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)陪同他们从会场回到他们下榻的酒店，向他们介绍党的著名赞助人和领袖。
The family’s tight bond has been on full display all week. In the lobby of their hotel, the laughing and chatting siblings were so consumed by each other they did not notice when their father’s running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana — dripping with sweat after a pre-speech workout — walked right by them and back into the elevators.
这一周充分展现了这家人的紧密关系。那天，在他们下榻的酒店大堂，兄弟姊妹几个欢声笑语不断，以至于根本没注意到父亲的竞选伙伴，印第安纳州的迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)州长刚刚做完演讲前的健身回来，满身是汗地从他们身边经过，走进电梯。
The Trump children are not above the age-old political ritual of acting as visual props — providing a Kennedyesque tableau for television networks to replay throughout the day. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump’s kids and their spouses gathered with Mr. Pence to welcome their dad back to Cleveland. As the Republican nominee’s Trump-branded helicopter kicked up a swirling wind, his family stood in a line clapping, before walking out to greet him, procession-like, as cameras clicked away.
特朗普的儿女们也不能超脱历史悠久的政治仪式，在视觉层面扮演支持者的角色，提供一幕肯尼迪家族式的活剧，供各个电视网每天播放。星期三，特朗普孩子们和配偶们与彭斯一起，欢迎父亲回到克利夫兰。这位共和党提名人乘坐印有自己名字的直升机降落时，卷起一阵旋风，一家人站成一排鼓掌，上前欢迎，如同列队行进，周围的相机快门声响个不停。
But even when they are sitting mute on the convention floor, they still exhibit a kind of magnetic pull.
但是，就算他们静静坐在会场里，也仍然如同磁石般吸引着人们的关注。
Not even celebrities can resist it. CNN’s top on-air political reporter, Dana Bash, approached them on Wednesday night, holding up a cellphone camera to reveal her son at home, live on screen. She wanted to show him the Trumps.
就连名人们都无法抗拒他们的魅力。星期三晚上，CNN的首席政治直播记者达娜·拜什(Dana Bash)走近他们，手机屏幕上显示的是在家中与她视频对话的儿子，她想给他看看特朗普一家。
Not long after, a Montana delegate named Terra Pierce negotiated her way past security guards to get a glimpse of the children and show off her Ivanka Trump-branded leather sandals.
没过多久，蒙大拿代表特拉·皮尔斯(Terra Pierce)说服警卫，让她看一眼特朗普的孩子们，还出示自己脚下伊万卡·特朗普品牌的皮凉鞋。
“Her name is on them,” Ms. Pierce explained, pointing to her feet.
“她的名字在上面呢，”皮尔斯伸出脚来。
The Trump children, she said, “are such a class act.”
她说，特朗普的孩子们，“真是一群出色的人。”