President Donald Trump faced a swift and bipartisan backlash Thursday after he assailed the television host Mika Brzezinski in unusually personal and vulgar terms, the latest of a string of escalating attacks by the president on the national news media.
周四，唐纳德·特朗普总统用非常粗俗的言语对电视主持人米卡·布热津斯基(Mika Brzezinski)进行人身攻击，很快引发了来自两党的强烈反应，总统已对国家新闻媒体进行了一连串不断升级的攻击，这是最新的一次。
Shortly before 9 a.m., as Brzezinski’s MSNBC show “Morning Joe” was ending, Trump used Twitter to taunt Brzezinski and her co-host, Joe Scarborough, referring to them as “low I.Q. Crazy Mika, along with Psycho Joe” and describing a meeting with Brzezinski in which, he said, “she was bleeding badly from a face-lift.”
上午9点之前不久，布热津斯基主持的MSNBC节目《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)快结束时，特朗普在Twitter上嘲弄布热津斯基和她的搭档主持人乔·斯卡伯勒(Joe Scarborough)，称他们是“低智商疯子米卡和精神病人乔”。他还说，有一次他与布热津斯基会面时，“她的脸刚做了拉皮手术，不住渗血。”
“Obviously, I don’t see that as an appropriate comment,” the House speaker, Paul Ryan, told reporters on Capitol Hill. Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, a Republican whose vote is considered critical to the success of Trump’s health care plan, wrote on Twitter, “This has to stop.” She said, “We don’t have to get along, but we must show respect and civility.”
“显然，我认为这样的评论不合适，”众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)在国会山对记者们说。缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)的投票被认为对特朗普医保计划的成功至关重要。她在Twitter上写道，“不能再这样下去了。”她说，“我们不必合得来，但我们必须表现出尊重和礼貌。”
Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, also a Republican, wrote on Twitter, “Mr. President, your tweet was beneath the office and represents what is wrong with American politics, not the greatness of America.”
南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)在Twitter上写道，“总统先生，你的推文有失白宫的尊严，代表着美国政治错误的一面，而非美国伟大的一面。”
The president has fumed for weeks about his coverage on “Morning Joe,” where Scarborough and Brzezinski have been increasingly blistering in their commentary about the Trump administration. They have openly questioned Trump’s mental state, comments that particularly upset the president, according to a senior administration official.
数周来，总统一直为《早安，乔》对自己的报道感到恼火，斯卡伯勒和布热津斯基对特朗普政府的评论越来越犀利。两位主持人曾公开质疑特朗普的精神状态，据一名高级政府官员称，这让总统尤为沮丧。
On Thursday, Brzezinski responded to the president’s comments by posting a photograph on Twitter of a box of Cheerios with the words, “Made For Little Hands.” The tweet referred to a long-standing insult against Trump referring to the size of his hands. In a statement, MSNBC said, “It’s a sad day for America when the president spends his time bullying, lying and spewing petty personal attacks instead of doing his job.”
周四，作为对总统评论的回应，布热津斯基在Twitter上发了一张照片，上面是一盒奇里欧牌麦圈，配文是：“为小手定制。”它指的是关于总统手的大小的长期侮辱。MSNBC在一项声明中表示，“对美国来说，这是悲哀的一天，总统把时间用在霸凌、撒谎和琐碎的人身攻击上，而不是工作上。”
Trump’s deputy press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, defended Trump’s tweets in an interview on Fox News.
特朗普的副新闻秘书萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在接受福克斯新闻(Fox News)采访时为特朗普的推文辩护。
“I don’t think that the president has ever been someone who gets attacked and doesn’t push back,” she told the Fox anchor Bill Hemmer. “This is a president who fights fire with fire and certainly will not be allowed to be bullied by liberal media, and the liberal elites within the media.”
“我认为总统从来都不是遭到攻击而不反击的人，”她对福克斯新闻的主播比尔·亨默(Bill Hemmer)说。“总统总是以牙还牙，当然不会容许自己被自由主义媒体，以及媒体中的自由主义精英欺负。”