Donald J. Trump on Monday invoked comparisons to the Cold War era in arguing that the United States must wage an unrelenting ideological fight if it is to defeat the Islamic State. He said he would temporarily suspend immigration from “the most dangerous and volatile regions of the world” and judge allies solely on their participation in America’s mission to root out Islamic terrorism.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)周一引用冷战时代的比较提出，如果要击败伊斯兰国的话，美国必须发动一场无情的意识形态战争。他说，他将暂停来自“世界上最危险、最不稳定地区”的移民，并将用各国参与美国铲除伊斯兰恐怖主义的使命的程度来评判盟友。
In a speech at Youngstown State University in Ohio, a critical swing state where polls show him trailing Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump combined old vows to seize Middle Eastern oil fields with the announcement of a series of new, if still vague, proposals to change America’s battlefield tactics.
特朗普在俄亥俄州扬斯敦州立大学(Youngstown State University)的演讲中，既重温了要收复中东油田的老誓言，也宣布了一系列新的提案。这些提案虽然仍比较模糊，但表示要改变美国在战场上的战术。俄亥俄州是一个关键的摇摆州，那里的民意调查显示，特朗普的支持率落后于希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。
“Just as we won the Cold War, in part by exposing the evils of communism and the virtues of free markets, so too must we take on the ideology of radical Islam,” he said.
特朗普说，“正如我们部分地通过揭示共产主义的罪恶和自由市场的美德来赢得了冷战那样，我们也必须要对激进的伊斯兰意识形态发动进攻。”
He again tried to change his politically inflammatory approach to immigration, replacing his 2015 vow to bar Muslims from entering the United States with a new commitment to bar anyone from parts of the world where terrorism breeds. Once again, he did not name those countries, or say whether citizens of longtime allies where terrorists have plotted and executed attacks — Germany, France and Belgium among them — would be included.
特朗普再次试图修改他针对移民问题提出的做法，这种做法在政治上显得过于煽动。他用一个新承诺取代了他2015年的禁止世界任何地方的穆斯林进入美国的誓言，他表示将禁止世界上滋生恐怖主义地方的人进入美国。他仍未指名是哪些国家，也未表示恐怖分子策划或发动过袭击的一些长期盟国（比如德国、法国和比利时）的公民是否将会包括在内。
Mr. Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the border with Mexico, also said he would call for “extreme vetting” of immigrants that would include requiring them to respond to a questionnaire with an “ideological test.”
特朗普曾承诺要沿着美国与墨西哥的边境建一道大墙，他还呼吁对移民进行“极端审查”，这将包括要求移民回答含“意识形态测试”的问卷。
Over all, he appeared to be arguing for the kind of terrorism-centric foreign policy that President George W. Bush adopted after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
总体而言，他似乎是在主张乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统在2001年9月11日的袭击事件发生之后，所采取的那种以恐怖主义为核心的外交政策。
But over time, that approach ran into complications: China and Russia used the fight against terrorism to crack down on Muslim minorities. And the Bush administration eventually discovered that a one-dimensional approach, measuring countries almost exclusively on their commitment to fighting Islamic terrorists, left it little leverage when their partners in counterterrorism took other steps opposed to American interests — from the Chinese claiming portions of the South China Sea to increasing Russian threats against former Soviet states.
但随着时间的推移，那种做法遇到了更复杂的问题：中国和俄罗斯借用反恐斗争来严厉打击本国的穆斯林少数民族。布什政府最终发现，只用打击伊斯兰恐怖分子的力度来衡量各国的一维做法，在这些反恐合作伙伴采取了其他不利于美国利益的行动时，让美国基本上无力影响他们，包括中国声称对大部分南海拥有主权的问题，以及俄罗斯不断加大对前苏联国家的威胁的问题。
Monday’s speech represented another attempt by Mr. Trump to focus on issues after a rocky period in his campaign, much as he did last Monday with a speech on the economy. He laid the blame for the rise of Islamic extremism on President Obama and Mrs. Clinton. He said they made “a catastrophic mistake” in “the reckless way in which they pulled out” of Iraq. He charged that Mrs. Clinton compounded the error by attempting to “build a democracy in Libya.”
在特朗普的竞选活动经历了一段跌宕起伏之后，周一的演讲，表现出了他寻求把重点转向人们所关心问题的又一次努力。他上周一做的有关经济的演讲也是这种努力的表现。他把伊斯兰极端主义的崛起归咎于奥巴马总统和克林顿。特朗普说，他们从伊拉克“撤军的不计后果的方式”是他们制造的一个“灾难性错误”。他指责克林顿通过试图“在利比亚建设民主国家”，让错误变得更加严重。
He argued — accurately — that Mrs. Clinton had been a vocal proponent of the American intervention in Libya in 2011, which Mr. Obama has repeatedly acknowledged was the most ill-thought-out foreign policy move in his nearly eight years in office. He also charged that “Hillary Clinton wants to be America’s Angela Merkel,” a reference to the German chancellor. Germany has taken in tens of thousands of refugees fleeing the civil war in Syria, in which fighting between forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, rebels opposed to his rule and Islamic State jihadists has claimed 400,000 lives.
特朗普称，克林顿曾在2011年大力支持美国对利比亚进行干预，这次他说对了。奥巴马多次承认，在他执政的近八年中，干预利比亚是考虑最不成熟的外交政策。特朗普还指责“希拉里·克林顿想成为美国的安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)”，他指的是德国总理。德国已经接收了几十万逃离叙利亚内战的难民。忠于总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的叙利亚部队与反对其统治的叛军及伊斯兰国圣战分子之间的战争，已导致40万人丧生。
Mr. Trump offered no criticism of Mr. Assad, but criticized the Obama administration for advocating the removal of the Syrian leader and Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, who was deposed in the first blush of the Arab Spring, because doing so took out the strongmen who kept the lid on violence in the region.
特朗普没有批评阿萨德，但他批评奥巴马政府支持让这位叙利亚领导人和埃及的穆巴拉克下台，因为这些政治强人的倒台让该地区失去了控制暴力发生的人物。穆巴拉克是在阿拉伯之春爆发不久倒台的。
He pledged to form a new partnership with Israel, Egypt and Jordan to try to stop the spread of terrorism, including groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah. He also suggested that the United States would be well served by joining forces with Russia against the Islamic State.
特朗普承诺将与以色列、埃及和约旦建立新型伙伴关系，以图阻止包括哈马斯和真主党等组织在内的恐怖主义蔓延。他还建议，在对抗伊斯兰国上，美国与俄罗斯联手对美国会有好处。
And though Mr. Trump made no reference to whether he would send more American troops back to the region, that appeared to be the clear implication.
虽然特朗普没有提他是否会把更多的美国军队派回该地区，但那似乎是一个明显的暗示。
The kind of relentless attacks on the Islamic State he advocates — along with taking and holding the oil fields, which may well be a violation of international law — would require a considerable presence by American troops or their allies, and foreign bases to launch the drones.
他所倡导的那种对伊斯兰国的无情打击，以及夺走其手中油田的做法（这很可能会违反国际法），需要有相当大的美国或其盟国的军事力量出现，也需要有发射无人机的国外基地。
Peter Feaver, a former Bush administration official who handled Iraq strategy and now teaches at Duke University, and who has signed two letters from national security officials opposing Mr. Trump’s candidacy, praised Mr. Trump for giving a “surprisingly serious” speech on counterterrorism.
曾在布什政府负责伊拉克战略的前官员、现在杜克大学任教的彼得·菲弗(Peter Feaver)，已在国家安全官员反对特朗普的总统候选人资格的两封信上签过名。菲弗称赞特朗普在反恐问题上发表了一个“令人惊讶地严肃”的演讲。
But he also said that “given how vehemently Trump has denounced Bush’s national security team, it is striking how much of this speech depends on counterterrorism ideas developed by the Bush administration. It is not a perfect copy — we never contemplated seizing the oil for our own purposes and we were far more concerned about how anti-Muslim rhetoric might demoralize the moderate Muslim voices we were seeking to empower. But the good parts are not new — they are imported from the Bush approach — and the new parts are not good.”
但菲弗同时表示，“考虑到特朗普谴责布什的国家安全团队的强烈程度，这篇演讲依赖由布什政府发展出来的反恐理念的程度之高令人惊讶。但演讲并没有百分之百地抄袭，我们从来没想过把油田夺下来，用于我们自己的目的，我们更担心的是，反穆斯林的言论可能会让穆斯林温和派泄气，而他们才是我们寻求扶植的力量。演讲中好的部分不是新的，是进口布什的做法，而新的部分都不怎么样。”
Mr. Trump did not explain how his vision of “extreme vetting” of immigrants, including an “ideological test,” would be enforced, or how it would be different from when prospective terrorists lie on questionnaires now. But he made clear that he views the recent terrorist attacks in the United States through the prism of immigration, pointing out that the common point between the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla., and the mass attack in San Bernardino, Calif., was that they were carried out “by immigrants, or the children of immigrants.”
特朗普没有解释他对移民进行“极端审查”、包括“意识形态测试”的愿景将如何实施，他也没有解释新做法是否能改变恐怖分子在现有问卷上撒谎的问题。但他明确表示，他通过移民问题的棱镜来看待美国最近发生的恐怖袭击事件。他指出，佛罗里达州奥兰多市的“脉动”(Pulse)夜总会发生的枪击案与加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺发生的袭击的共同点是，它们都是“移民或移民的子女”制造的。
As part of the ideological battle against the Islamic State, he said, a Trump administration will “be a friend to all moderate Muslim reformers in the Middle East,” and would speak out “against the horrible practice of honor killings, where women are murdered by their relatives for dressing, marrying or acting in a way that violates fundamentalist teachings.”
特朗普说，作为与伊斯兰国意识形态斗争的一部分，他的政府将“是中东所有温和派穆斯林改革者的朋友”。他的政府将大声疾呼，“反对荣誉杀人的可怕做法，既女性因着装、婚姻或行为被认为违反原教旨主义教义时，被自己亲属杀死的做法。”
But he never squared that with the real-life complexities he would confront in the Oval Office. Pakistan, where one recent honor killing occurred that Mr. Trump cited at length, is also considered a key partner in the counterterrorism fight — even though its intelligence service has, at times, been accused of supporting the Taliban.
但他从未理清这个问题与他在白宫椭圆形办公室将面对的现实生活的复杂性。特朗普详尽列举的最近一个荣誉杀人案发生在巴基斯坦，该国也被认为是在反恐斗争中美国的一个重要合作伙伴，尽管其情报局曾经被指控支持过塔利班。
Jake Sullivan, Mrs. Clinton’s policy chief, argued that Mr. Trump’s concern about respecting minority rights within the Muslim religion was not sincere. “This so-called ‘policy’ cannot be taken seriously,” he said in a statement. “How can Trump put this forward with a straight face when he opposes marriage equality and selected as his running mate the man who signed an anti-L.G.B.T. law in Indiana? It’s a cynical ploy to escape scrutiny of his outrageous proposal to ban an entire religion from our country, and no one should fall for it.”
克林顿的首席政策顾问杰克·苏利文(Jake Sullivan)认为，特朗普对尊重穆斯林少数群体权益的关切并不诚恳。“不能把这种所谓的‘政策’当真，”他在声明中表示。“在反对婚姻平等并选择一个在印第安纳州签署了反LGBT法的人做竞选搭档的同时，特朗普怎么可能严肃地提出这种建议？那是一种笼络人心的把戏，为的是让他提出的禁止一个宗教的全体信众进入我国的骇人建议免遭审视，但没人应该上这个当。”
In his address, Mr. Trump said that if he is elected, “the era of nation-building will be ended,” implicitly criticizing efforts to restore stability to Iraq and Afghanistan. He did not note that most of that nation-building began in the Bush administration, and much of it was terminated by President Obama.
特朗普在发言中讲到，如果他当选，“国家建设的年代将会终结”，他是在含蓄地指责恢复伊拉克和阿富汗稳定的努力。但他没有指出大部分国家重建行为始于布什政府时期，也没有指明其中许多已被奥巴马总统终止。
Mr. Trump was clearly defensive about challenges to his claim that he had opposed the invasion of Iraq, notably a Sept. 11, 2002, comment to Howard Stern, the radio host, in which he was asked whether he supported a future invasion of the country. “Yeah, I guess so,” he responded, “I wish the first time it was done correctly,” a reference to the Persian Gulf war. The day of the invasion in 2003, he described it as a “tremendous success from a military standpoint.”
特朗普明显在为针对他声称自己始终反对出兵伊拉克的质疑进行辩护，尤为人知的是他在2002年9月11日做出的评论。当时，他被电台节目主持人霍华德·斯特恩(Howard Stern)问到是否支持未来出兵伊拉克。“对，我想是的，”他回应道，“要是第一次没做错就好了”，这里指的是波斯湾战争。美国在2003年出兵伊拉克的当天，他表示，“从军事角度讲”，这“是一个巨大的成功”。
But in his speech, Mr. Trump quoted himself from an August 2004 statement to Esquire when the Iraq war was beginning to turn against the United States.
但是在这次的演讲中，特朗普援引了自己在2004年对《Esquire》杂志所做的声明，当时伊拉克战争开始变得对美国不利。
“It turns out that all the reasons for the war were blatantly wrong,” he said, 17 months after the invasion. “All this for nothing.” He noted that he had warned that “two minutes after we leave, there’s going to be a revolution, and the meanest, toughest, smartest, most vicious guy will take over.”
“事实证明，发起这场战争的所有原因明显都是错的，”他在美国出兵17个月之后说。“完全是徒劳无功。”他指出自己曾经发出警告，“我们离开两分钟后，那里就会发生革命，会有一个最凶恶、最强硬、最精明、最残暴的家伙接管。”