WASHINGTON — President Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, was indicted Monday on charges that he funneled millions of dollars through overseas shell companies and used the money to buy luxury cars, real estate, antiques and expensive suits.
华盛顿特区——特朗普之前的竞选主席保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)星期一遭到起诉，被控通过海外空壳公司获得数以百万计的美元，他用这笔钱购买了豪车、房地产、古董和昂贵的西装。
The charges against Mr. Manafort and his longtime associate Rick Gates represent a significant escalation in a special counsel investigation that has cast a shadow over Mr. Trump’s first year in office.
针对马纳福特及其长期副手里克·盖茨(Rick Gates)的起诉，代表着特别检察官进行的调查取得了重大进展，该调查已经给特朗普的第一年任期带来了阴影。
The two men appeared in the Federal District Court in Washington on Monday afternoon and pleaded not guilty to all charges.
两人星期一下午在华盛顿的联邦地方法院出庭，对所有指控都不认罪。
Separately, one of the early foreign policy advisers to Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, George Papadopoulos, pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about a contact with a professor with ties to Kremlin officials, prosecutors said on Monday.
另外，检察官星期一表示，特朗普竞选团队早期的外交政策顾问之一乔治·帕帕佐普洛斯(George Papadopoulos)星期一认罪，对于自己与一名同克里姆林宫官员有联系的教授的接触，他向FBI撒了谎。
The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was assigned in May to investigate whether anyone close to Mr. Trump participated in a Russian government effort to influence last year’s presidential election. Monday’s indictments indicate that Mr. Mueller has taken an expansive view of his mandate.
特别检察官罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S.Mueller III)今年5月份被指派调查特朗普身边是否有人参与了俄罗斯政府影响去年总统大选的努力。星期一的指控表明，穆勒在这个任务上采取了一个宽泛的视角。
The indictment of Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates makes no mention of Mr. Trump or election meddling. Instead, it describes in granular detail Mr. Manafort’s lobbying work in Ukraine and what prosecutors said was a scheme to hide that money from tax collectors and the public. The authorities said Mr. Manafort laundered more than $18 million.
马纳福特和盖茨的起诉书没有提及特朗普或干预选举的事情。而是详细描述了马纳福特在乌克兰的游说工作，以及检察官所说的他不让收税员和公众知道这笔钱存在的计划。当局表示，马纳福特洗钱的金额超过1800万美元（约合人民币1.2亿元）。
“Manafort used his hidden overseas wealth to enjoy a lavish lifestyle in the United States without paying taxes on that income,” the indictment reads.
起诉书称：“马纳福特利用这些隐藏的海外财富在美国享受奢华的生活方式，没有为这些收入缴税。”
Mr. Gates is accused of transferring more than $3 million from offshore accounts. The two are also charged with making false statements.
盖茨被指控从离岸账户转出300多万美元。两人也以虚假陈述罪名遭到起诉。
“As part of the scheme, Manafort and Gates repeatedly provided false information to financial bookkeepers, tax accountants and legal counsel, among others,” the indictment read.
“作为该计划的一部分，马纳福特和盖茨多次向财务记账员、税务会计师和法律顾问等人提供虚假信息，”起诉书显示。
Mr. Papadopoulos admitted that in a January interview with the F.B.I., he lied about his contacts with a Russian professor, whom he knew to have “substantial connections to Russian government officials,” according to court documents. Mr. Papadopoulos told the authorities that the conversation occurred before he became an adviser to Mr. Trump’s campaign. In fact, he met the professor days after joining the campaign.
法庭文件称，帕帕佐普洛斯承认，他在1月份接受FBI的询问时，对自己与一名俄罗斯教授的接触撒了谎，他知道该教授与俄罗斯政府官员有“密切关系”。帕帕佐普洛斯告诉当局，他们的谈话发生在他成为特朗普竞选顾问之前。事实上，他是在加入竞选班底的数日之后遇到了这名教授的。
The professor took interest in Mr. Papadopoulos “because of his status with the campaign,” the court documents said.
法庭文件说，教授对帕帕佐普洛斯感兴趣，“是因为他在竞选活动中的身份”。
Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates surrendered to the F.B.I. early on Monday and, through their lawyers, pleaded not guilty to all charges on Monday. The two men, wearing dark blue suits, entered the courtroom with their hands held behind their backs. Money laundering, the most serious of the charges, carries a potential prison sentence of up to 20 years.
星期一早些时候，马纳福特和盖茨向FBI投案，他们通过律师表示对所有指控均不认罪。进入法庭时，两人身穿深蓝色的西装，把手背在身后。洗钱是其中最严重的指控，最高可判20年监禁。
Mr. Manafort has expected charges since this summer, when F.B.I. agents raided his home and prosecutors warned him that they planned to indict him. That warning raised speculation that Mr. Manafort might try to cut a deal to avoid prosecution. A senior White House lawyer, Ty Cobb, said last week that the president was confident that Mr. Manafort had no damaging information about him.
自今年夏天以来，马纳福特遭到起诉就是预料之中的事情。当时FBI搜查了他的家，检察官也警告说打算起诉他。这个警告让人猜测，马纳福特可能会试图达成交易以免被起诉。白宫高级律师泰·柯布(Ty Cobb)上周表示，总统相信马纳福特没有关于他的任何不利信息。
People close to Mr. Manafort, including his former business partner Roger J. Stone Jr., have said he had nothing to offer that would help prosecutors build a case against Mr. Trump.
和马纳福特关系密切的人，包括他的前商业伙伴小罗杰·J·史东(Roger J. Stone Jr.)在内，都表示他没有什么料能帮助检察官起诉特朗普。
“He’s not going to lie,” Mr. Stone said in September.
“他不会说谎，”史东在9月份说。
Mr. Gates is a longtime protégé and junior partner of Mr. Manafort. His name appears on documents linked to companies that Mr. Manafort’s firm set up in Cyprus to receive payments from politicians and businesspeople in Eastern Europe, records reviewed by The New York Times show.
盖茨是马纳福特的长期副手和初级合伙人。《纽约时报》看到资料显示，与马纳福特在塞浦路斯成立的一些公司相关的文件上有盖茨的名字，这些公司用于接收东欧的政客和商人支付的款项。
Attempts to reach Mr. Gates on Monday were not successful. A spokesman for Mr. Manafort did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
星期一记者尝试联系盖茨没有成功。马纳福特的发言人没有立即回应置评请求。
Mr. Manafort, a veteran Republican strategist, joined the Trump campaign in March 2016 to help keep delegates from breaking with Mr. Trump in favor of establishment Republican candidates. Mr. Trump soon promoted him to chairman and chief strategist, a job that gave him control over day-to-day operations of the campaign.
马纳福特是一名资深的共和党战略师，于2016年3月加入了特朗普的竞选团队，帮助特朗普保持代表们对他而不是共和党建制派候选人的支持。特朗普很快就把他提升为竞选主席兼首席战略师，让他控制竞选活动的日常运作。
But Mr. Trump fired Mr. Manafort just months later, after reports that he received more than $12 million in undisclosed payments from Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former Ukrainian president and a pro-Russia politician. Mr. Manafort spent years as a political consultant for Mr. Yanukovych.
不过，特朗普在几个月后就解雇了马纳福特，因为有报道说他从前乌克兰总统、亲俄罗斯政客维克托·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)那里收取了1200万美元。马纳福特曾担任亚努科维奇的政治顾问数年之久。
American intelligence agencies have concluded that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia launched a stealth campaign of hacking and propaganda to try to damage Hillary Clinton and help Mr. Trump win the election. The Justice Department appointed Mr. Mueller III as special counsel in May to lead the investigation into the Russian operations and to determine whether anyone around Mr. Trump was involved.
美国情报机构的结论是，俄罗斯总统普京暗地里发动了一场黑客和宣传运动，试图破坏希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选活动，帮助特朗普赢得大选。司法部在5月份任命穆勒三世为特别检察官，负责调查俄罗斯的行动，并确定特朗普周围是否有人参与。
Mr. Trump has denied any such collusion, and no evidence has surfaced publicly to contradict him. At the same time, Mr. Trump and his advisers this year repeatedly denied any contacts with Russians during the campaign, only to have journalists uncover one undisclosed meeting after another.
特朗普否认存在任何这样的勾结，迄今也没有出现和他的说法相矛盾的公开证据。与此同时，特朗普及其顾问今年一再否认曾在竞选活动中与俄罗斯人有任何接触，直到记者曝光了一个没有公开的会面。
The New York Times revealed in July that Mr. Manafort and others close to Mr. Trump met with Russians last year, on the promise of receiving damaging political information about Mrs. Clinton.
《纽约时报》今年7月透露，马纳福特和其他与特朗普关系密切的人在去年曾和俄罗斯人见过面，因为对方承诺将提供不利于克林顿的政治信息。