WASHINGTON — Leaders of the Republican Party have begun internal deliberations over what would be fundamental changes to the way its presidential nominees are chosen, a recognition that the chaotic process that played out this year is seriously flawed and helped exacerbate tensions within the party.
华盛顿——共和党领导层已经开始进行内部讨论，希望对该党选择总统候选人的方式做出根本性的修改，因为他们认识到，今年的初选乱局中存在严重缺陷，加剧了党内的紧张对峙。
In a significant shift, Republican officials said it now seemed unlikely that the four states to vote first would all retain their cherished place on the electoral calendar, with Nevada as the most probable casualty.
共和党官员表示，目前看来，四个最先投票的州似乎不太可能保留自己在选举日程表上的重要位置，最有可能受影响的是内华达。这是一个巨大变化。
Party leaders are even going so far as to consider diluting the traditional status of Iowa and New Hampshire as gatekeepers to the presidency, by pairing them in one proposal with other states holding nominating contests on the same day as a way to give more voters a meaningful role much sooner.
共和党领导层甚至有意削弱艾奥瓦州和新罕布什尔州作为总统竞选看门人的传统地位，提议让它们和其他举行竞选投票的州同一天进行初选，以便让更多的选民更早发挥有意义的作用。
But in a move that would sharply limit who can participate in presidential primaries, many party activists are also pushing to close Republican contests to independent voters, arguing that open primaries in some states allowed Donald Trump, whose conservative convictions they deeply mistrust, to become the presumptive nominee.
但共和党很多活动人士正在大力推动的一个举措，将大幅限制参加总统初选的人选。他们希望共和党选举不对独立选民开放，因为他们认为，一些州由于没有实施这种限制，让唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)这次稳获了提名资格。这些推动举措的活动人士极不信任特朗普的保守信念。
Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina are sure to mount fierce resistance when the changes are debated in July at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland, where party officials are planning to consider a variety of procedural and rule changes.
等到七月共和党在克利夫兰全国代表大会讨论这些变化时，一定会遭遇艾奥瓦州、新罕布什尔州和南卡罗来纳州的激烈抵触。共和党官员计划在那次会上考虑多项程序和规则上的变化。
Given the dissatisfaction with the rules in both parties, officials say, some combination of changes for 2020 is almost certain.
由于两党都对规则不满，官员们说，2020年的选举规则几乎肯定会做一些修改。
The central question that both Republicans and Democrats are struggling to answer after protracted primary campaigns is one that cuts to the identity of the modern American political party: Who should be allowed to participate in the presidential nominating process?
经历旷日持久的初选后，共和党和民主党都在努力回答一个核心问题：什么人应该有参加总统提名竞争的资格？这个问题与美国现代政党身份息息相关。
“This is a historic moment,” said Elaine Kamarck, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and an expert on the presidential nomination system.
“这是一个历史性的时刻，”总统候选人提名制度方面的专家、布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)高级研究员伊莲·卡马克(Elaine Kamarck)说。
Of course, any changes made now cannot address the unforeseeable. Republicans thought that reforms enacted after the 2012 campaign, such as limiting the number of debates and compressing the nominating calendar, would help make the process less unpredictable this time. It did not turn out that way.
当然，现在所做的任何更改都无法应对不可预见的事情。共和党人认为，2012年竞选后进行的一些改革，比如限制辩论数量，压缩提名日程等，有助于减少本届选举的不可预知性。现在情况看来并不是这样。
“It’s always the problem,” Kamarck said, “that you’re fighting the last battle.”
“一直都是这个问题，”卡马克说。“总是在想着如何赢下上一场战斗。”