WASHINGTON — President Trump signed on Tuesday a much-anticipated executive order intended to roll back most of President Barack Obama’s climate-change legacy, celebrating the move as a way to promote energy independence and to restore thousands of lost coal industry jobs.
华盛顿——特朗普总统周二签署了一份很多人意料之中的行政命令，旨在撤销奥巴马在气候变化上的大部分政策。特朗普称此举是促进能源独立，恢复煤炭行业数以千计工作岗位的途径。
Flanked by coal miners at a ceremony at the Environmental Protection Agency, Mr. Trump signed a short document titled the “Energy Independence” executive order, directing the agency to start the legal process of withdrawing and rewriting the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece of Mr. Obama’s policies to fight global warming.
在美国环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)举行的一个仪式上，特朗普在煤矿工人的簇拥下签署了一份名为《能源独立》的简短的行政命令，指示该机构开始走法律程序，撤销和重写“清洁电力计划”(Clean Power Plan)。该计划是奥巴马阻止全球变暖政策的核心。
“C’mon fellas. You know what this is? You know what this says?” Mr. Trump said to the miners. “You’re going back to work.”
“伙计们，你们知道这是什么吗？你知道这是什么吗？”特朗普对矿工说。“你们要回去工作了。”
The order also takes aim at a suite of narrower but significant Obama-era climate and environmental policies, including lifting a short-term ban on new coal mining on public lands.
该命令针对的还有奥巴马时代一系列范围有限但是很重要的气候和环境政策，包括撤销在公共土地新开采煤炭的短期禁令。
The executive order does not address the United States’ participation in the 2015 Paris Agreement, the landmark accord that committed nearly every country to take steps to reduce climate-altering pollution. But experts note that if the Trump program is enacted, it will all but ensure that the United States cannot meet its global warming commitments under the accord.
这个行政命令并不涉及美国2015年参与的《巴黎协议》(Paris Agreement)，那是一项具有里程碑意义的协议，使几乎所有国家都采取措施，减少气候变化的污染。但专家指出，如果特朗普的计划生效，就几乎可以肯定美国无法履行对这份全球变暖协议的承诺。
Mr. Trump advertised the moves as a way to decrease the nation’s dependence on imported fuels and revive the flagging coal industry.
特朗普宣称这一举措有助于减少美国对进口燃料的依赖，并且重振萎缩的煤炭行业。
“We’re ending the theft of American prosperity and reviving our beloved economy,” Mr. Trump said. “The miners told me about the attacks on their jobs. I made them this promise. We will put our miners back to work.”
“我们是在结束美国繁荣遭受的盗窃，复苏我们珍视的经济。”特朗普说。“煤矿工人跟我说了他们工作岗位遭到的冲击。我向他们做出了这个承诺。我们会让矿工重新上班。”
But energy economists say the order falls short of both of those goals — in part because the United States already largely relies on domestic sources for the coal and natural gas that fires most of the nation’s power plants.
但能源经济学家表示，这道命令并不能实现这两个方面的目标——部分原因是美国本来就已经在很大程度上依赖国内的煤炭和天然气，大部分美国电厂都在使用它们。
“We don’t import coal,” said Robert N. Stavins, an energy economist at Harvard University. “So in terms of the Clean Power Plan, this has nothing to do with so-called energy independence whatsoever.”
“我们又不进口煤炭。”哈佛大学能源经济学家罗伯特·N·斯塔文斯(Robert N. Stavins)说，“所以从清洁能源计划的角度来说，这和所谓的能源独立没有关系。”
Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, said in an interview on ABC News on Sunday that the order will help the United States “be both pro-jobs and pro-environment.”
美国环境保护局局长斯科特·普鲁特(Scott Pruitt)周日在接受ABC新闻采访时表示，该命令将有助于美国“在工作岗位和环境上兼得”。
But coal miners should not assume their jobs will return if Mr. Trump’s regulations take effect.
但如果特朗普的规定生效，煤矿工人也不应该想当然地认为他们的工作岗位就会回来。
The new order would mean that older coal plants that had been marked for closing would probably stay open for a few years longer, extending the demand for coal, said Robert W. Godby, an energy economist at the University of Wyoming.
怀俄明大学(University of Wyoming)的能源经济学家罗伯特·W·戈德比(Robert W. Godby)表示，新的命令将意味着已经被选定关闭的老旧煤电厂可能会继续运营几年，延长对煤炭的需求。
But even so, “the mines that are staying open are using more mechanization,” he said.
但即使如此，“仍然经营的矿山也在更多采用机械化，”他说。
“They’re not hiring people,” he continued.
“他们不会雇人，”他说。
“So even if we saw an increase in coal production, we could see a decrease in coal jobs,” he added.
“所以即使我们看到煤炭产量有所增加，煤炭工作岗位还是会减少。”他说。
Legal experts say it could take years for the Trump administration to unwind the Clean Power Plan, which has not yet been carried out because it has been temporarily frozen by a Supreme Court order. Those regulations sought to cut planet-warming carbon dioxide pollution from coal-fired power plants. If enacted, they would have shut down hundreds of those plants, frozen construction of future plants and replaced them with wind and solar farms and other renewable energy sources.
法律专家说，特朗普政府可能需要数年时间才能撤销清洁能源计划，由于被最高法院的命令暂时冻结，这个计划尚未实施。这些法规试图减少燃煤电厂的二氧化碳温室气体污染。如果获得通过，就会有许多这样的工厂关闭，未来的建厂计划也会遭到冻结，以风能和太阳能发电场等可再生能源替代它们。
Throughout his campaign, Mr. Trump highlighted his support of coal miners, holding multiple rallies in coal country and vowing to restore lost jobs to the flagging industry. At a rally last week in Kentucky, Mr. Trump vowed that his executive order would “save our wonderful coal miners from continuing to be put out of work.”
在整个竞选活动中，特朗普都在强调他对煤矿工人的支持。他在产煤州举行了多次集会，表示要帮助这个疲软的行业恢复失去的工作岗位。上周在肯塔基州举行的一个集会上，特朗普宣称他的这个行政命令将“拯救我们出色的煤矿工人，让他们不再继续失业”。
While coal mining jobs have dropped in the United States, they do not represent a significant portion of the American economy. Coal companies employed about 65,971 miners in 2015, down from 87,755 in 2008, according to Energy Department statistics.
虽然美国的煤炭业工作岗位在减少，但它们在美国经济中的占比较小。据能源部统计，煤炭公司在2015年雇用了约65971名矿工，2008年的数字是87755人。
And though the percentage of coal mining jobs dropped sharply, economists said that was not driven by the Clean Power Plan. Rather, they blamed two key forces: an increase in the production of natural gas, which is a cheaper, cleaner-burning alternative to coal, and an increase in automation, which allowed coal companies to produce more fuel with fewer employees. The rollback of Mr. Obama’s regulations will not change either of those forces, economists say.
尽管煤矿业工作岗位的比例大幅下降，但经济学家表示，这并非清洁能源计划所致。相反，他们把这种情况归结于两个关键因素：第一是天然气生产的增加，它比煤炭更便宜、更清洁；第二是自动化程度的增加，这使得煤炭公司能够用更少的员工生产更多的煤炭。经济学家说，撤销奥巴马的法规不会改变这些因素。
“The problem with coal jobs has not been CO2 regulations, so this will probably not bring back coal jobs,” Mr. Godby said. “The problem has been that there has not been market demand for coal.”
“煤炭行业工作岗位的问题跟二氧化碳法规无关，所以这么做恐怕并不会恢复煤炭业的就业机会。”戈德比说。“问题在于煤炭没有市场需求。”
The coal industry nonetheless cheered the move.
不管怎样，煤炭业仍然在为这个行动欢呼。
“These actions are vital to the American coal industry, to our survival, and to getting some of our coal families back to work,” said Robert E. Murray, the chief executive of Murray Energy, one of the nation’s largest coal mining companies. Mr. Murray, a donor to Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, stood behind the president as he signed the order.
美国最大的煤矿公司之一默里能源(Murray Energy)的首席执行官罗伯特·E·默里(Robert E. Murray)在命令签署之后说：“这些行动对于美国煤炭行业，对我们的生存，以及让一些煤炭业员工重返工作岗位来说至关重要。”默里是特朗普总统竞选活动的捐助人之一，总统签署该命令的时候，他就站在其身后。
But even Mr. Murray conceded that he did not expect Mr. Trump’s order to return coal mining numbers to their former strength. “I really don’t know how far the coal industry can be brought back,” he said.
但就算默里也承认，他并不觉得特朗普的命令会让煤矿业的数字恢复到以前的高度。他说：“我真的不知道煤炭行业会复苏到什么程度。”
Mr. Trump’s directive also eliminates about a half-dozen of Mr. Obama’s smaller executive orders and memorandums related to combating climate change.
特朗普的命令也撤销了奥巴马大约六项应对气候变化的小范围行政命令以及备忘录。
For example, the order would require White House economists to recalculate a budgeting metric known as the social cost of carbon that, under the Obama administration, limited pollution by arguing that global warming outweighed economic benefits for industries. It would also eliminate a requirement that federal agencies consider the impact on climate change when analyzing all future environmental permits.
例如，奥巴马执政期间推出了一个名为“碳排放”的社会成本预算指标，以全球变暖的害处超过行业经济效益为依据来限制污染，新的命令则要求白宫的经济学家重新计算这个指标。另一个被撤销的法规是，联邦机构未来在颁发所有环境许可证时需要考虑对气候变化的影响。
Combined, the measures are likely to ensure the United States’ emissions of planet-warming pollution remain too high to meet the terms of the Paris climate accord.
综合来看，这些举措有可能会让美国的温室气体污染排放量维持在较高水平，无法满足《巴黎协议》的要求。