President Donald Trump is expected to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, three officials with knowledge of the decision said, making good on a campaign pledge but severely weakening the landmark 2015 climate change accord that committed nearly every nation to take action to curb the warming of the planet.
三位知情官员表示，特朗普总统很可能会让美国退出巴黎气候协定，兑现他在竞选期间做出的承诺，但此举会严重打击2015年的这个具有里程碑意义的气候变化协议，它让几乎每个国家都参与其中，共同采取行动遏制地球变暖。
Even as reports surfaced about his decision, Trump posted on Twitter that he will make his intentions known soon.
即使一些报道已经透露了他的决定，特朗普还是在Twitter上表示，他会很快公开自己的打算。
Still, faced with advisers who pressed hard on both sides of the Paris question, Trump appears to have decided that a continued U.S. presence in the accord would harm the economy; hinder job creation in regions like Appalachia and the West, where his most ardent supporters live; and undermine his “America First” message.
在巴黎协议问题上，正反两面都有顾问在施加压力，然而面对这种情况，特朗普似乎已经决定，美国继续留在这个协定中将会危害经济；还会妨碍一些地方创造就业机会，比如阿帕拉契亚和西部，那里有特朗普最忠诚的支持者；此外还会削弱他的“美国优先”主张。
The exit of the United States, the world’s largest economy and second-largest greenhouse gas polluter would not dissolve the 195-nation pact, which was legally ratified last year, but it could set off a cascade of events that would have profound effects on the planet. Other countries that reluctantly joined the agreement could now withdraw or soften their commitments to cutting planet-warming pollution.
美国是世界上最大的经济体，也是全球第二大温室气体排放国，美国的退出不会让这个195国参与的协议土崩瓦解，但可能会引发一系列事件，对地球造成深刻的影响。其他勉强加入这个协议的国家，现也可能会撤销或者降低他们对减少温室气体污染的承诺了。
“The actions of the United States are bound to have a ripple effect in other emerging economies that are just getting serious about climate change, such as India, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton, and a member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations group that produces scientific reports designed to inform global policymakers.
普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)地球科学及国际事务教授迈克尔·奥本海默(Michael Oppenheimer)表示：“美国的行动势必在印度、菲律宾、马来西亚、印度尼西亚等其他刚开始重视气候变化问题的新兴经济体产生涟漪效果。”奥本海默也是联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）的成员，这个机构撰写向全球决策者通报情况的科学报告。
Foreign policy experts said the move could damage the United States’ credibility and weaken Trump’s efforts to negotiate issues far beyond climate change, like negotiating trade deals and combating terrorism.
外交政策专家说，这一举措可能会损害美国的信誉，削弱特朗普在气候变化之外各种议题的谈判努力，例如贸易磋商和打击恐怖主义。
But Trump’s supporters, particularly coal state Republicans, cheered the move, celebrating it as a fulfillment of a signature campaign promise.
但是特朗普的支持者，尤其是煤炭州的共和党人，正在为这一举动而欢呼雀跃，庆祝特朗普竞选活动的一个主要承诺兑现。
Other countries have vowed to continue to carry out the terms of the Paris agreement, even without the United States.
其他国家誓言要继续执行巴黎协议的条款，哪怕没有联邦的参与。
President Xi Jinping of China, the world’s largest greenhouse gas polluter, has promised that his country would move ahead with steps to curb climate change, regardless of what happens in the United States.
在世界上最大的温室气体排放国中国，习近平主席承诺，不管美国发生什么事情，中国都将采取措施，遏制气候变化。