WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that Russia likely knew of the Syrian government’s plan to gas its own people in advance of a chemical weapons attack last week in northwestern Syria, asserting that U.S. relations with Moscow were at an “all-time low.”
华盛顿——特朗普总统周三表示，在叙利亚政府上周在该国西北部发起化武袭击之前，俄罗斯可能就已经知晓他们对人民施放毒气的计划，并声称美国与莫斯科的关系处于“历史最低点”。
Asked whether it was possible that Syrian forces could have launched the chemical attack without Russia’s knowledge, Trump said: “It’s certainly possible; I think it’s probably unlikely.”
在被问及叙利亚部队是否可能在俄罗斯不知道的情况下发动化武袭击的时候，特朗普说：“这当然是可能的；我认为可能性不大。”
“I would like to think that they didn’t know, but certainly they could have. They were there,” Trump said of the Russians during a news conference at the White House with Jens Stoltenberg, secretary-general of NATO.
“我倒是愿意他们不知道，但肯定他们可能是知道的。他们就在那里，”特朗普与北约秘书长延斯·斯托尔滕贝格(Jens Stoltenberg)在白宫举行的新闻发布会上提到俄罗斯人时说道。
The remarks amounted to an explosive suggestion at a time of heightened tension between the United States and Russia after the chemical attack, which was followed by U.S. missile strikes on the airfield in Syria from which it was launched.
特朗普发表此番爆炸性言论，正值美俄紧张关系在化武袭击之后加剧之际，之前，美国向涉及这次袭击的叙利亚机场发射了导弹。
The remarks were the latest evidence of Trump’s turnabout on President Vladimir Putin of Russia, a leader he praised during the presidential campaign but has now moved to isolate since the Syrian chemical weapons attack.
这个言论是特朗普对俄罗斯总统普京的态度发生转弯的最新证据，竞选期间特朗普对普京赞赏有加，但自叙利亚化武袭击发生以来，他现在变得疏远普京。
Trump also made a stark reversal on NATO, which he derided as obsolete during his bid for the White House, but said Wednesday had transformed into an effective alliance since he took office.
特朗普对北约的态度也出现了明显的逆转，他在争取入主白宫期间嘲笑北约过时，但周三却说，自他上任以来，北约已经变成了一个能办事的联盟。
Trump attributed his change of heart to unspecified transformations within NATO that he said were a direct response to criticism he had leveled that the alliance was not doing enough to combat terrorism.
特朗普将态度上的改变归功于北约内部的转变，但没有具体说是哪些内容，只是说转变是对他批评北约打击恐怖主义不力的直接回应。
“I complained a long time about that,” Trump said, “and they changed.”
“我抱怨很长时间了，”特朗普说，“他们做出了改变。”
It was not clear what the president was referring to; NATO forces have been fighting alongside the United States in Afghanistan for more than a decade, an effort focused on combating terrorist groups including the Taliban.
特朗普指的是什么并不清楚；但北约部队十多年来一直与美国在阿富汗战斗，重点是打击包括塔利班在内的恐怖主义集团。
His comments came hours after a senior White House official said the Trump administration had supported the admission of Montenegro into NATO in part to counter the influence of Russia in the small Balkan nation. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, the official cited “credible reports” that Moscow backed a plot for a violent election day attack there last fall.
在他发表这番言论的数小时前，白宫一位高级官员说，特朗普政府支持黑山加入北约，以抵制俄罗斯在这个巴尔干小国的影响。这位官员不愿具名，但表示这个消息来自一些“可信的报告”，它们显示莫斯科是黑山去年秋天选举日一个暴力袭击计划的幕后黑手。