Of all the things connected to Donald J. Trump, few have given him more mileage than his fleet of aircraft.
与唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的名字联在一起的所有东西中，很少有像他的机队那样给他带来那么多益处的。
His Boeing 757 jet, often referred to as Trump Force One, has received the full rich-and-famous lifestyle treatment; The Washington Post even queried whether it was better than Air Force One.
他的波音757飞机常被称为“王牌军一号”(Trump Force One，Trump在英文中有“王牌”的意思——译注)，它配有既有名又有钱者的生活方式所需的全套设备；《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)甚至一度怀疑它比“空军一号”还高档。
One of Mr. Trump’s helicopters has gotten similar coverage; an interior renovation made CNBC’s “Secret Lives of the Super Rich” in a segment entitled “Pimp My Chopper.”
特朗普拥有的直升飞机之一也曾得到类似的报道；该直升机的内部装修入选了CNBC有线电视台“超级富豪的秘密生活”(Secret Lives Of The Super Rich)节目一个题为“打扮我的直升机”(Pimp My Chopper)的片段。
A close look at Mr. Trump’s two airplanes — the 757 and a smaller jet used on the campaign trail — and three helicopters, however, suggests that their value rests chiefly in their marketing potential, with the Trump stamp of status masking the fleet’s age.
不过，仔细观察一下特朗普的飞机，包括那架波音757和另一架竞选途中用的小型喷气式飞机、以及他的三架直升机，就会意识到，这些飞机的价值主要在于它们作为宣传工具的潜力，它们作为特朗普地位的标志掩盖了机队的机龄。
Four of the five aircraft are more than 20 years old, a rarity for most billionaires. The exception is a 19-year-old Cessna 750 Citation X — the only one of the five without the Trump name painted on it in large letters. The smaller plane was grounded last week after The New York Times reported that its registration had expired in January. It is now cleared to fly again, according to the F.A.A.
这五架飞机中有四架是有20多年机龄的老飞机，这在大多数亿万富翁中是罕见。唯一的例外是一架有19年机龄的塞斯纳750奖状十型(Cessna 750 Citation X)飞机，这也是五架飞机中唯一没有把特朗普的名字用大号字母印在机身上的那架。《纽约时报》报道这架小型飞机的注册已在今年1月到期后，它曾在上周被禁飞。据联邦航空管理局（简称FAA）说，禁飞目前已解除。
Most people who own aircraft do not have more than one or two. Even those who can afford to own planes often lease or charter them instead, offering a layer of ease and anonymity. But anonymity is not Mr. Trump’s style. The Boeing, built in 1991 to seat roughly 200 people, is Mr. Trump’s favorite flying toy, he said in an interview on Saturday. The jet, which once did duty with a commercial airline in Mexico in the 1990s, has been famously renovated. It has a bedroom; the fixtures are brushed with 24-karat gold; and the toilet seats were reupholstered with Edelman leather, which also graces the Eames chairs in Ivanka Trump’s den.
大多数私人飞机拥有者，也就只有一两架飞机。一些人即使有能力负担私人飞机，通常也会选择租用或包机，更加方便低调一些。但低调不是特朗普的作风。他在周六的采访中说，那架1991年产、可以容纳大约200人的波音飞机是他最心爱的飞行玩具。1990年代，这架喷气式飞机曾经在一家墨西哥民航公司服役，后来进行了一番广为人知的重新装修。机上拥有一间卧室，固定装置使用了24K包金；马桶座采用爱德曼(Edelman)皮革，伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)房间里的埃姆斯(Eames)椅子也使用了这种皮革。
“It’s like a new plane,” Mr. Trump said in a documentary that showed off some of the renovations. “The plane is very much an extension of the Trump brand.”
“它就像一架新飞机，”在一部展示新装修成果的纪录片中，特朗普说。“从很大的程度上说，这架飞机是特朗普品牌的一个延伸。”
While the 757 might seem like an odd choice for a man who puts his net worth at $11 billion, and, records show, does not use the plane much to travel abroad, Mr. Trump has cited it and his other planes as proof of how he gets good value for his money. In the 1980s, for example, he paid $8 million to buy a 1968 Boeing 727 from a financially troubled Texas company, Diamond Shamrock, according to his book “The Art of the Deal.” Mr. Trump said a smaller Gulfstream jet would have cost more than twice as much.
对于一个净资产110亿美元的人来说，757似乎是个古怪的选择，而且记录显示，特朗普很少乘坐这架飞机前往国外。特朗普称它和自己的其他飞机证明他善于发挥金钱价值。比如他在《交易的艺术》(The Art of the Deal)一书中写到，1980年代，他花费800万美元从陷入财务困境的德克萨斯州公司钻石三叶草(Diamond Shamrock)那里购买了一架1968年造的波音727。特朗普说，购买更小的湾流(Gulfstream)喷气机，要花费两倍以上的钱。
“It was a little more plane than I needed,” he wrote, “but I find it hard to resist a good deal when the opportunity presents itself.”
“飞机的数量有点超过了我的需要，”他写道，“但我发现，每当有划算的买卖机会出现，我就很难抵抗诱惑。”
In the interview on Saturday, Mr. Trump said he did not own the five aircraft to burnish his brand, but agreed that the fleet had “promotional value.” He added that he could get by without owning a Boeing 757 but it was a “great luxury to have.”
在上周六采访中，特朗普说，他购买这五架飞机并不是为了推广自己的品牌，但他也承认，这些飞机有“推广效应”。他说自己没有波音757也能过得很舒心，但是“拥有这样一个奢华品非常棒”。
Air travel is one of the largest expenses of Mr. Trump’s Republican presidential campaign: A company he owns has charged the campaign approximately $3.7 million in travel costs since he announced his candidacy in June 2015. Using the 757 does not help keep costs down: It guzzles fuel and costs thousands of dollars an hour to fly, more than private planes being used to shuttle other presidential candidates. Still, Mr. Trump has used it to crisscross the country, sometimes with just a small group of people aboard.
飞机旅行是特朗普参加共和党总统竞选活动最大的开支之一。自2015年6月他宣布参加竞选以来，他拥有的一家公司向竞选团队收取了约370万美元旅行费用。动用那架757无助于降低成本：它耗油量大，每小时飞行耗费成千上万的美元，远远超过用来接送其他总统候选人的私人飞机。不过，特朗普仍然乘坐它在国内飞行，有些时候只搭乘了少量人员。
Mr. Trump said he liked older planes because they had been “tested” and had “been around.”
特朗普说，他很喜欢旧一些的飞机，因为它们已经经受过了“考验”，已经“飞行了一段时间”。
For Mr. Trump, doing things bigger than most has been a guiding principle, as reflected in his penchant for slapping his name on buildings and planes. In June 1989 he launched the Trump Shuttle, after paying $365 million to buy the old Eastern Airlines shuttle operations, which connected New York City with Boston and Washington. The deal is not counted among his more successful ventures. In 1990 he defaulted on his loan and lost control of the airline to a group of lenders. Around the same time, a helicopter shuttle service he ran also fizzled.
对于特朗普来说，比大多数人都更加大张旗鼓是一个指导原则，这反映在他喜欢把自己的名字打在建筑物和飞机上。他曾斥资3.65亿美元，购下东方航空公司(Eastern Airlines)在纽约市、波士顿和华盛顿的往返飞行服务，在1989年6月改为特朗普快线(Trump Shuttle)。这笔交易比不上他的其他一些成功投资。1990年，他的贷款违约，这家航空公司的控制权被几个贷方获得。大约在同一时间，他经营的一个直升机接送服务也以失败告终。
As for Mr. Trump’s personal travel, he prefers to fly private. In 2009, he decided to sell his Boeing 727, which was by then 41 years old. He replaced it with another used aircraft, the Boeing 757.
至于特朗普的个人旅行，他更喜欢乘坐私人飞机。2009年，他决定卖掉当时已经有41年历史的波音727。然后又购买了另外一架替代，就是波音757。
A company controlled by the billionaire Paul Allen, a founder of Microsoft, had bought that plane in 1995. Mr. Allen did a full renovation, transforming it into a luxurious private jet. He installed a master suite that included a bathroom and guest room. He put a conference table, overhead projector and bar in the center of the aircraft. This room had two couches and 11 single seats, according to F.A.A. records. Elsewhere on the plane, Mr. Allen installed 12 sleeper seats, each with their own foldout monitors. 
这架飞机曾在1995年被微软联合创始人、亿万富翁保罗·艾伦(Paul Allen)控制的一家公司购得。艾伦对它进行了全面重装，把它改造成了一架豪华私人飞机。机上有一个主套房，包括一间浴室和客房。还在飞机中部装上了会议桌、投影仪和酒吧。根据FAA的记录，这个房间有两张沙发和11个单座位。在飞机的其他部位，艾伦安装了12张躺椅，每个都配有单独的收折式显示器。
He agreed to sell it to Mr. Trump in 2010, records show. The purchase price was not disclosed, though it was widely reported that Mr. Trump paid $100 million. The aircraft was insured at a value of $35 million in 2011, records show, and aviation experts say it is currently worth about $18 million. Boeing no longer makes 757s, but a 2015 Boeing Business Jet would sell for approximately $80 million, and cost anywhere from $20 million to $40 million to outfit.
记录显示，2010年，他同意把这架飞机出售给特朗普。尽管特朗普声称为它花费了1亿美元，获得了广泛报道，但交易价格未作披露。记录显示，这架飞机曾在2011年以3500万美元的价值投保。航空专家说，它目前的价值大约为1800万美元。波音公司已不再生产757，但2015年造的波音商务机(Boeing Business Jet)售价约在8000万美元左右。装修费用在2000万到4000万美元之间。
The Trump campaign did not respond to several questions about the aircraft. Trump, in a brief interview Saturday, said his 757 was a “truly great aircraft."
特朗普的竞选团队没有回应几个涉及飞机的问题。特朗普在上周六一个简短的采访中说，他的757“真的很棒”。