WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is making it tougher for millions of visitors to enter the United States by demanding new security checks before giving visas to tourists, business travelers and relatives of U.S. residents.
华盛顿——特朗普政府要求在给游客、商务旅客和美国公民的亲属发放签证之前进行新的安全核查，这将令数以百万计的入境者更加难以进入美国。
Diplomatic cables sent last week from Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson to all U.S. embassies instructed consular officials to broadly increase scrutiny. It was the first evidence of the “extreme vetting” Trump promised during the presidential campaign.
上周，国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)在发给美国所有大使馆的外交电报中要求领事官员全面加强审查。这是特朗普兑现他在总统竞选中承诺的“极端审查”的第一个迹象。
The new rules generally do not apply to 38 countries — including most of Europe and long-standing allies like Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South Korea — whose citizens can be speedily admitted into the United States under the visa waiver program. No countries from the Middle East or Africa are part of the program. In 2016, the United States issued more than 10 million visas to foreign visitors.
这些新规一般不适用于38个国家——包括大部分欧洲国家和澳大利亚、新西兰、日本和韩国等美国的长期盟友——依据美国的免签计划，这些国家的公民可以被快速允许入境。这个计划不包含任何中东和非洲国家。2016年，美国向外国游客发放了1000多万张签证。
Even stricter security checks for people from six predominantly Muslim nations remain on hold because federal courts have temporarily blocked President Donald Trump’s travel ban.
对六个以穆斯林人口为主的国家进行的更严格的安全检查，目前仍处在搁置状态，因为联邦法院暂时阻止了唐纳德·特朗普总统的旅行禁令。
But Trump and his national security team are not waiting to toughen the rules to decide who can enter the United States. Embassy officials must now scrutinize a broader pool of visa applicants to determine if they pose security risks to the United States, according to four cables sent between March 10 and March 17.
但特朗普和他的国家安全团队不打算坐等这些规则得到强化后才决定谁能进入美国。3月10日至3月17日期间发出的四封电报显示，大使馆官员现在必须对数量众多的签证申请人进行更广泛的详细检查，以确定他们是否对美国构成安全隐患。
That extra scrutiny will include asking applicants detailed questions about their background and making mandatory checks of social media history if a person has ever been in territory controlled by the Islamic State.
额外的审查将包括向申请人询问有关其背景的详细信息。同时，如果一个人曾经在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)控制的地区待过，则必须对其社交媒体历史记录进行审查。
Trump has spoken regularly of his concern about the threat of “radical Islamic terrorism” from immigrants. But it is unclear who, exactly, will be targeted for the extra scrutiny since Tillerson’s cables leave that decision up to security officers at each embassy.
特朗普经常谈起他对来自移民的“激进伊斯兰恐怖主义”威胁的担忧。但目前还不清楚，到底谁会成为这项额外审查的目标，因为蒂勒森的电报将决定权留给了各个大使馆的安全官员。
Still, taken together, consular officials and immigration advocates said, the administration’s moves will increase the likelihood of denial for those seeking to come to the United States and will further slow a bureaucratic approval process that can already take months or even years for those flagged for extra investigation.
但领事官员和移民倡导者普遍表示，政府这项举措将会增大美国拒签的比率，会进一步减慢本就需要花费数月乃至数年时间的行政审批程序——因为增加了这些被称为额外调查的工作。
There are legitimate reasons someone might be targeted, such as evidence of a connection to terrorism or crime. But advocates also said they worry about people being profiled because of their name or nationality.
有些人可能是出于合理的原因被列为强化审查目标，比如存在与恐怖主义或犯罪行为有关联的证据。但倡导人士也表示，他们担心人们会因为自己的名字或国籍遭到审查。
“This will certainly slow down the screening process and impose a substantial burden on these applicants,” said Greg Chen, director of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “It will make it much harder and create substantial delays.”
“这肯定会导致筛选过程减慢，会给这些申请者造成巨大的负担，”美国移民律师协会(American Immigration Lawyers Association)的宣传总监格雷格·陈(Greg Chen)说。“会让它变得困难得多，而且会造成大幅度延后。”
The cables from Tillerson, which were reported by Reuters, make clear that the Trump administration wants a more intense focus on the potential for a serious threat when making decisions about who should receive a visa.
据路透社报道，蒂勒森发出的电报明确表示，特朗普政府希望在决定谁应该拿到美国签证时更着眼于构成严重威胁的可能性。
“Consular officers should not hesitate to refuse any case presenting security concerns,” Tillerson wrote in the cables, titled “Implementing Immediate Heightened Screening and Vetting of Visa Applications.”
“领事官员应该毫不犹豫地拒绝任何显示出安全隐患的申请，”蒂勒森在题为《立即实施签证申请强化筛查与审查》的电报中写道。
“All visa decisions are national security decisions,” the secretary of state added.
“所有签证审批决策都是事关国家安全的决定，”这位国务卿还写道。
Most people seeking entry to the United States, for family, business or tourism reasons, must apply for a visa. Embassy officials can deny a visa for anyone suspected of being a threat, conducting fraud or planning to stay longer than allowed.
因家庭、商务或旅游的原因申请进入美国境内的人大多必须申请签证。大使馆官员可以拒绝为任何有嫌疑的人——构成威胁、存在欺诈或计划在美国逗留超出允许的时间——发放签证。
The seven-page unclassified cable that Tillerson sent March 15, which was provided to The New York Times, makes clear that the process of securing a visa is about to get harder and longer at diplomatic posts around the globe.
《纽约时报》拿到了蒂勒森在3月15日发出的长达7页的非机密电报的内容，其中明确表示，在美国驻世界各地的外交机构获得签证的过程将会变得更加困难，时间也会更长。
“Consular chiefs must immediately convene post’s law enforcement and intelligence community partners” to develop what Tillerson described in the cable as “sets of post-applicant populations warranting increased scrutiny.”
“领事官员必须立即召集所在机构的执法和情报界合作方，”建立蒂勒森在电报中描述的“外交机构需要加强审核的申请人名单”。
People targeted for increased scrutiny, Tillerson said in his cable, may be subject to a decision made only after more rigorous screening.
蒂勒森还在电报中表示，一个人如果成为强化审查的目标，那么只有经过更严格的筛查才能做决定。
The March 15 cable suggests areas of inquiry during a required interview, including: the applicant’s travel history, addresses and work history for 15 years; and all phone numbers, email addresses and social media handles used in the past five years.
3月15的这份电报指出了被要求面谈时会被问到的领域：申请人过去15年的旅行经历、地址和工作经历；过去5年使用过的所有手机号、邮箱地址和社交媒体账户名称。
Another cable, sent two days later, indicated that consular officers should not begin asking for the 15-year travel and work histories until the State Department received authorization from the Office of Management and Budget. It is unclear why that permission had not been granted.
两天后发出的另一份电报显示，只有国务院获得管理与预算办公室(Office of Management and Budget)的批准后，领事官员才能开始要求申请人提交15年旅行和工作经历。目前还不清楚国务院为何还没有获得这项批准。
The State Department also urged its embassy officials to delay or reschedule interviews if an applicant was unable to provide all of the information demanded. And Tillerson acknowledged in the cables that the extra scrutiny would cause “backlogs to rise,” even as he recommended that officials should each interview no more than 120 visa applicants each day.
国务院也竭力主张使馆官员在申请人不能提供需要提交的所有信息的情况下，延迟或重新安排面试时间。蒂勒森在电报中承认，额外审查将导致“积压情况增加”，尽管他建议官员们每天面试的签证申请人不应超过120个。
Chen, of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, questioned how an interviewer conducting 120 interviews per day — at about five minutes per interview — could improve security.
美国移民律师协会的格雷格·陈对此提出质疑，称一位面试官每天进行120场签证面试——平均五分钟一个——怎么可能改善安全状况。
“It’s highly unlikely they could obtain information that demonstrates whether someone is a national security threat in such a brief interview process,” he said.
“在那么短的面试过程中，他们几乎不大可能获得能显示某人是一个国家安全隐患的信息，”他说。