WASHINGTON — President Trump on Wednesday lashed out at federal judges considering a challenge to his executive order banning travel from seven predominantly Muslim countries, as his Supreme Court nominee called Mr. Trump’s attacks on the independent judiciary “demoralizing” and “disheartening.”
华盛顿——特朗普总统周三炮轰联邦法官，后者正在考虑一桩质疑特朗普禁止以穆斯林为主的七国公民入境的行政命令的案件，而特朗普提名的最高法院大法官人选则表示，他对独立法官的攻击“令人泄气”、“使人灰心”。
Mr. Trump escalated his public feud with the courts over his immigration order, saying that he had found a federal appeals court hearing on his executive order Tuesday night “disgraceful,” and that the judges had failed to grasp concepts even “a bad high school student would understand.”
特朗普加剧了自己因上述移民命令与相关法院之间的公开不和，称他发现周二晚上就他的行政命令举行听证会的联邦上诉法院“丢人”，并表示相关法官未能理解“就连一个高中差生都能理解的”的概念。
The comments were a remarkable show of disdain by a sitting president for an independent judiciary, and they came at an awkward time for Mr. Trump, just as his newly selected nominee for the Supreme Court, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch of the federal appeals court in Denver, was meeting with senators on Capitol Hill in the hopes of gaining support for his confirmation.
这番话显示了一名在任总统对独立司法系统的不屑，这令人惊讶。对特朗普来说，做出这番表述的时机颇为尴尬，因为他新选的最高法院大法官提名人选、丹佛联邦上诉法院法官尼尔·M·戈萨奇(Neil M. Gorsuch)正在国会同参议员会面，希望获得他们的确认支持。
Judge Gorsuch told Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, that he objected to Mr. Trump’s harsh criticism of the courts, including his attack over the weekend on a Seattle district court judge who temporarily blocked his immigration order. In a Twitter posting on Saturday, the president called Judge James L. Robart, a “so-called judge” whose ruling was “ridiculous” and would be overturned.
戈萨奇法官对康涅狄格州民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)表示，他反对特朗普对相关法院的严厉指责，包括他周末对西雅图一名暂时禁止实施其行政命令的联邦地区法院法官的攻击。在周六发表的一条推文中，特朗普总统称詹姆斯·L·罗巴特(James L. Robart)法官是一名“所谓的法官”，还说他的裁决“荒唐”，将会被推翻。
Mr. Trump’s invective toward judges is a jarring break from a tradition observed by presidents of both parties. Presidents have usually tried to refrain from even appearing to intervene in court cases that concern them or their policies, or from impugning the jurists charged with deciding them, according to judges and legal experts from across the political spectrum.
特朗普咒骂法官的做法，赫然打破了两党总统遵守的一项传统。据多名来自不同政治光谱的法官和政界法律专家称，总统通常都努力避免介入与自己或自己的政策有关的诉讼案件，或质疑负责断案的法官，甚至连给人这种感觉都要避免。
“I don’t ever want to call a court biased, so I won’t call it biased,” Mr. Trump told a gathering of sheriffs and police chiefs on Wednesday in Washington. “But courts seem to be so political, and it would be so great for our justice system if they would be able to read a statement and do what’s right.”
“我不想说法院有偏见，因此我不会说它有偏见，”特朗普周三在华盛顿的一个县治安官和警察局长会议上说。“但法院的政治立场似乎太强了，如果他们能够看懂口供，做出正确的裁决，对我们的司法制度来说就太好了。”
Mr. Trump, who opened his remarks reciting the passage of the United States code that gives the president the power to restrict immigration whenever he deems the influx of foreigners detrimental to the country, said he had watched “in amazement” Tuesday night as a three-judge federal appeals panel heard arguments on his executive order and the limits of presidential power in cases of national security.
发表讲话时，特朗普开门见山地背诵了美国法典中的一个段落。该段落规定，无论何时，总统只要认为外国人的涌入对国家有害，便有权限制移民。他说，周二晚上，自己在看三名法官组成的联邦上诉委员会就他的行政命令，以及总统在国家安全事务上的权限进行的有关辩论时，看得“目瞪口呆”。
“I listened to a bunch of stuff last night on television that was disgraceful,” Mr. Trump said. “I think it’s sad. I think it’s a sad day. I think our security is at risk today.”
“昨天晚上，我在电视上听到了一堆丢人的话，”特朗普说。“我觉得令人难过。我觉得那是令人伤心的一天。我觉得如今我们的社会处于危险中。”
“This is highly unusual,” said Michael W. McConnell, a former federal judge who directs the Constitutional Law Center at Stanford University. “Mr. Trump is shredding longstanding norms of etiquette and interbranch comity.”
“这种情况极为少见，”前联邦法官、斯坦福大学宪法中心(Constitutional Law Center at Stanford University)主任迈克尔·W·麦克康奈尔(Michael W. McConnell)说。“特朗普撕裂了长期以来的惯例和各分支之间的友好。”
“It’s partly good manners, but more importantly, the separation of powers works better when the branches aren’t in a spitting match,” added Mr. McConnell, who was nominated to his judicial post by President George W. Bush.
“在一定程度上涉及礼仪，但更重要的是，各分支不相互指责，分权才能更好地发挥作用，”被乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统提名为联邦法官的麦克康奈尔接着说。
Mr. Trump appears bent on engaging in just such a confrontation with independent judges who hold the fate of his travel ban in their hands.
特朗普似乎决意要和手握其入境禁令命运的独立法官进行这样的对抗。
His comments came the morning after a lively, roughly hourlong hearing — the audio of which was carried live on national television — during which three judges on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit expressed skepticism about the arguments of a Justice Department lawyer defending Mr. Trump’s order.
特朗普是在那场激烈、粗暴、持续了大约一小时的审理结束后的第二天早上说出这些话的，全国性电视台直播了审理的音频。审理期间，美国联邦第九巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit)的三名法官对司法部一名为特朗普的命令辩护的律师提出的观点表示了质疑。
A federal judge in Seattle blocked the travel ban on Friday, and the appeals court is considering whether to uphold that action. The panel said Tuesday that it would rule as soon as possible. Mr. Trump on Wednesday appeared incensed about the challenge, saying, “It’s really incredible to me that we have a court case that is going on so long.”
西雅图的一名联邦法官周五下令禁止实施特朗普的入境禁令，该上诉法院正在考虑是否维持该裁决。前述上诉委员会于周二表示将尽快做出裁决。周三，特朗普似乎被该命令遭到的反对激怒了，称“对我来说真的是不可思议，我们的一桩诉讼案件居然要拖这么久”。
The president told the law enforcement officers that he was acting solely out of a concern about terrorism, a threat he said had deepened since he took office and gained access to information about the risks facing Americans.
特朗普总统对执法官员称，他的行动仅仅是出于对恐怖主义的担忧。他说，自他上台并接触到有关美国人所面临风险的信息以来，恐怖主义的威胁加剧了。
“Believe me, I’ve learned a lot in the last two weeks, and terrorism is a far greater threat than the people of our country understand,” Mr. Trump said. “But we’re going to take care of it. We’re going to win.”
“相信我，过去两周里我了解到了很多，恐怖主义的威胁远比我国民众所理解的大，”特朗普说。“但我们会处理好。我们会取得胜利。”