BRIDGEWATER, N.J. — President Donald Trump broke away from his summer vacation Monday for a barrage of Twitter posts lashing out at the “Fake News” media and insisting that his political base was “getting stronger” despite investigations into possible collusion between Russia and his associates.
新泽西州布里奇沃特——特朗普周一从暑假抽出时间发表多条推文抨击“假新闻”媒体，强调他的政治支持队伍“越来越强大”，尽管一些机构正在调查他的助手和俄罗斯之间可能存在的勾结。
Rising early at his golf resort in Bedminster, where he is staying for 17 days, Trump vented his frustration that he is not getting the credit he argues he deserves for political strength and the accomplishments of his six-month presidency.
特朗普将在他位于贝德明斯特的高尔夫度假村停留17天，周一一大早，他发推表达不满：他上任六个月来取得这么多政治优势和成绩，他却没有获得应有的赞赏。
“The Trump base is far bigger & stronger than ever before (despite some phony Fake News polling). Look at rallies in Penn, Iowa, Ohio and West Virginia, he said on Twitter in a string of messages. “The fact is the Fake News Russian collusion story, record Stock Market, border security, military strength, jobs, Supreme Court pick, economic enthusiasm, deregulation & so much more have driven the Trump base even closer together. Will never change!”
“特朗普的支持队伍比以往任何时候都更大、更坚挺（尽管有一些假新闻的假民调）。看看宾夕法尼亚州、艾奥瓦州、俄亥俄州和西弗吉尼亚州的集会，”他在一连串推文中说。“假新闻乱发通俄门故事、股市新高、边境安全、军事实力、就业机会、最高法院人选、对经济的看好、管制放松等等，使得特朗普的支持者更加紧密地结合在一起。永远不会变！”
He added: “Hard to believe that with 24/7 #Fake News on CNN, ABC, NBC, CBS, NYTIMES & WAPO, the Trump base is getting stronger!”
他说：“很难相信，虽然有CNN、ABC、NBC、CBS、《纽约时报》和《华尔街日报》这些假新闻在全天候运转，特朗普的支持队伍却越来越强！”
Trump arrived in New Jersey on Friday for a break while the West Wing undergoes a renovation to upgrade the air conditioning. The furniture has been removed from the Oval Office and most of the staff relocated to an office building next door.
特朗普周五抵达新泽西度假，这期间白宫西翼正在装修升级空调系统。家具已从椭圆形办公室搬走，大部分工作人员搬到了隔壁的办公楼。
The president cited this to argue that he was not really on vacation. He had earlier insisted that Congress not go on vacation until it passed legislation repealing and replacing President Barack Obama’s health care law, but the bill was defeated in the Senate and lawmakers have now left town.
特朗普提到这一点，声称他不是真的在度假。他之前坚持说，国会如果不通过废除和取代奥巴马医保法律的立法就不休假，但是这个法案在参议院遭到否决，议员们现在也离开了国会。
“Working hard from New Jersey while White House goes through long planned renovation,” he wrote. “Going to New York next week for more meetings.”
“白宫正在实施计划已久的改造计划，我在新泽西州努力工作。”他写道，“下周还要去纽约参加更多会议。”
He went after some of his most consistent targets, including The New York Times and Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn.
他还在坚持不懈地攻击一些目标，包括《纽约时报》和理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)。
“The failing @nytimes, which has made every wrong prediction about me including my big election win (apologized), is totally inept!” he wrote. He did not specify any particular article that angered him.
他写道：“失败的@nytimes，对我的每一个预测都是错的，包括我大选胜利这件事（道了歉）！彻头彻尾地无能！”他没有指出任何令他愤怒的具体文章。
The assertion that the newspaper apologized for its coverage last year is not true, but Trump has continued to say it even after being corrected. In a letter to readers after the election, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher, and Dean Baquet, the executive editor, wrote that the surprise election result raised a question: “Did Donald Trump’s sheer unconventionality lead us and other news outlets to underestimate his support among American voters?”
他说时报对去年的报道道了歉，这个说法是不正确的，但是在受到纠正之后，特朗普仍然继续这么说。在选举之后，时报出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)和时报主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)在致读者的一封信中写道，这个令人惊讶的选举结果提出了一个问题：“特朗普完全不循常规的风格和行为，是不是造成我们和其他媒体低估了美国选民对他的支持？”
They added: “As we reflect on the momentous result, and the months of reporting and polling that preceded it, we aim to rededicate ourselves to the fundamental mission of Times journalism. That is to report America and the world honestly, without fear or favor, striving always to understand and reflect all political perspectives and life experiences in the stories that we bring to you.”
他们还说：“当我们反思这个重大的结果，以及之前几个月来对此事的报道和民调的同时，我们希望自己更努力地投身于时报新闻的基本使命。我们会诚实地报道美国和世界新闻，不畏惧、不偏向，在所有为读者呈现的报道中，始终力求理解和反映所有的政治视角和生活体验。”
Trump has regularly assailed Blumenthal when he has seen him on television criticizing him.
特朗普看到布卢门撒尔在电视上批评自己，也会经常攻击他。
“Interesting to watch Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut talking about hoax Russian collusion when he was a phony Vietnam con artist!” he wrote. “Never in U.S. history has anyone lied or defrauded voters like Senator Richard Blumenthal. He told stories about his Vietnam battles and conquests, how brave he was, and it was all a lie. He cried like a baby and begged for forgiveness like a child. Now he judges collusion?”
“看到康涅狄格州参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔谈论虚假的通俄门真是有趣，他本来就是一个假得不行的越战大骗子！”他写道，“在美国历史上，从来没有任何人像理查德·布卢门撒尔参议员那样欺骗、欺诈选民。他讲他参加越南的战斗和获得胜利的故事，他如何勇敢，这全都是在撒谎。他像婴儿一样哭泣，像小孩一样请求宽恕。现在他倒来对里通外国说三道四了？
Blumenthal received at least five deferments from military service during the Vietnam era and then went into the Marine Reserve, where he served in a unit in Washington. But as a politician, he referred to himself as having “served in Vietnam” or “served during the Vietnam era.” The article exposing these false statements in 2010 did not, however, report that he told stories about Vietnam battles or conquests. Trump received five deferments from the draft, four for college and one for bad feet.
布卢门撒尔在越战时期至少五次推迟服兵役，然后进入陆战队预备役，他的部队当时位于华盛顿。但作为一名政界人士，他自称“在越南服役”或“在越战时代服役”。然而，2010年披露这些虚假说法的文章中，没有提到他说过关于越南的战斗或获得胜利的故事。特朗普曾五次推迟服役，四次是因为上大学，一次因为脚伤。
As it happens, the article that Trump relies on for his attack on Blumenthal ran in The New York Times.
事实上，特朗普用来攻击布卢门撒尔的文章是刊登在《纽约时报》上的。