WARSAW, Poland — President Donald Trump said Thursday that Western civilization was at risk of decline, bringing a message about “radical Islamic terrorism” and “the creep of government bureaucracy” to the one European capital he views as most hospitable to his nationalist message.
波兰华沙——周四，特朗普在这个对他的民族主义信息最为友好的欧洲首都，表示西方文明有衰落的风险，并发出了“激进的伊斯兰恐怖主义”和“政府的官僚主义正在蔓延”的信息。
Trump, who broke with tradition by attacking U.S. leaders and institutions while abroad, delivered his message in a speech to a friendly Polish crowd before a two-day summit meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Hamburg, Germany.
特朗普还打破传统，在国外批评美国领导人和机构；他在去德国汉堡参加为期两天的G20峰会之前，在一个演讲中向友好的波兰民众传达了自己的信息。
Hours later, he flew from Warsaw to Hamburg, where he held a low-key private meeting with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who perhaps best symbolizes the deep skepticism shared by Western leaders toward Trump’s persona and his policies, ranging from addressing climate change to confronting Russia.
几个小时后，他从华沙飞到汉堡，与德国默克尔进行了低调的私人会晤。默克尔也许最能象征西方领导人对特朗普的个性和政策的深刻怀疑，这些政策包括应对气候变化、对待俄罗斯的方式等等。
In what may be a foretaste of the scene in Hamburg, 12,000 protesters vowing to disrupt the summit meeting converged for a protest Thursday night called “Welcome to Hell.” Police said some protesters attacked officers with bottles, poles and iron bars. Up to 100,000 protesters were expected in the coming days.
周四晚上，可能是作为预演，1.2万名誓言要扰乱峰会的抗议者聚集在一起，高喊“欢迎来到地狱”。警方表示，有些抗议者用瓶子、杆子和铁棒攻击警察。预计未来几天将有十万人参加抗议活动。
Trump roused his Polish hosts by recounting the country’s history of resistance to invaders, including Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. But he said nothing about the right-wing government’s crackdown on judges and journalists and its refusal to accept more migrants, policies that have upset European Union leaders. He instead praised Poland as a defender of liberty in the face of existential threats.
通过讲述波兰抵抗纳粹德国、苏联等侵略者的历史，特朗普引燃了波兰东道主的情绪。但他对于波兰右翼政府打压法官和新闻记者，以及拒绝接受更多移民的政策只字不提，这些政策令欧盟领导人很不满。特朗普而是赞扬波兰在面对生存威胁时捍卫了自由。
“The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to survive,” he said. “Do we have the confidence in our values to defend them at any cost? Do we have enough respect for our citizens to protect our borders? Do we have the desire and the courage to preserve our civilization in the face of those who would subvert and destroy it?”
“我们这个时代的根本问题是，西方是否有生存的意志。”他说，“我们是否对我们的价值观有信心，不惜一切代价来捍卫它们？我们对公民是否有足够的尊重，来保护我们的边境？面对那些颠覆者和破坏者，我们是否有愿望和勇气来维护我们的文明？”
Pressed at a news conference earlier in the day about Russian interference in the American election, he said that “nobody really knows” if other countries were involved. He blamed President Barack Obama for not responding publicly after learning about reports of possible election meddling last summer.
当天早些时候，特朗普在新闻发布会上谈到俄罗斯干涉美国大选一事时表示，“没有人真的清楚”是否有其他国家卷入其中。他指责奥巴马总统去年夏天在了解到选举可能被干预之后没有做出公开回应。
Trump — who is under pressure to confront Putin during their first face-to-face meeting in Hamburg on Friday over his attempts to sway the election — delivered a mixed message on Russia, one tailored for his Polish audience, the other straight out of his Putin playbook.
特朗普本周五将在汉堡和普京举行首次会面，他承受着要和普京当面对质干预选举一事的压力。特朗普在俄罗斯问题上发出了矛盾的信息，一个是专门针对波兰听众的，另一个是他对普京的常用表态。
The president made his sharpest criticism of Moscow since taking office, urging Russia to “cease its destabilizing activities in Ukraine and elsewhere and its support for hostile regimes, including Syria and Iran,” and asserting that it must “instead join the community of responsible nations in our fight against common enemies and in defense of civilization itself.”
特朗普发布了上任以来对莫斯科最严厉的批评，敦促俄“停止在乌克兰和其他地方开展破坏稳定的活动，停止支持叙利亚和伊朗等敌对政权”，并声称“在我们对付共同的敌人和维护文明本身的斗争中”俄罗斯必须“加入负责任的国家一边”。
And Trump moved to reassure Poland and other allies fretful about Russia’s aggression, making a full-throated endorsement of the collective defense principle that undergirds NATO, something he was unwilling to do during his first trip to Europe in May.
特朗普还对波兰及其他对俄罗斯的侵犯感到不安的盟友进行了安抚，表示要全力支持构成北约基石的集体防务原则，他5月份首次访问欧洲期间还不愿意这样表态。
“The United States has demonstrated not merely with words but with its actions that we stand firmly behind Article 5, the mutual defense commitment,” Trump said.
特朗普说：“美国已经表现出，我们不仅在口头上，而且在行动上坚决恪守北约第五条款的共同防务承诺。”
But he also said he was not entirely convinced that Russia was solely responsible for interference in the 2016 election, breaking with U.S. intelligence agencies, which have agreed that the efforts emanated from Moscow and were directed by Putin.
但他也表示，不完全相信2016年选举遭到干预的事情全部由俄罗斯负责，这和美国情报机构的说法不一。情报机构认为干预行动来自莫斯科，是由普京下令执行的。
“I think it was Russia, and it could have been other people in other countries,” Trump said when asked for a yes-or-no answer to the question about Russian meddling. “Nobody really knows for sure.”
当有人要求特朗普以“是或者否”来回答关于俄罗斯干预选举的问题时，他说，“我认为这是俄罗斯干的，而它可能也会是其他国家的其他人干的。没有人真的清楚。”
To back up his message about uncertainty, he recalled the intelligence failures that preceded President George W. Bush’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003. “Everybody was 100 percent sure that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction,” Trump said. “They were wrong and it led to a mess.”
为了支持自己这种不确定的说法，特朗普提到了小布什2003年做出入侵伊拉克的决定之前的那次情报失误。“当时大家都百分之百肯定伊拉克拥有大规模毁灭性武器。”特朗普说，“他们错了，结果搞得一团糟。”
The U.S. president also had harsh words for North Korea, after its recent test of a new long-range missile, but he refused to say what steps he would take to punish Pyongyang.
朝鲜日前进行了远程导弹试验之后，特朗普也对朝鲜放狠话，但他拒绝详细描述会对平壤采取什么惩罚措施。
“We’ll see what happens — I don’t like to talk about what we have planned — but I have some pretty severe things that we’re thinking about,” Trump said at the news conference, standing next to his Polish counterpart, Andrzej Duda. “They are behaving in a very, very serious manner, and something will have to be done about it.”
和波兰总统安杰伊·杜达(Andrzej Duda)一起参加新闻发布会时，特朗普表示：“我们将会看到事件的展开——我不想讲我们计划好的事情——但是我们正在考虑一些非常严厉的事情。他们的行为非常非常严重，对朝鲜必须要采取一些行动。”
After meeting with Merkel in Hamburg on Thursday evening, Trump dined with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, discussing a response to the latest threats from the North.
周四晚上在汉堡与默克尔会面后，特朗普与日本首相安倍晋三和韩国总统文在寅共进晚餐，讨论了如何应对朝鲜的威胁。