WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald Trump on Sunday chose Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee and a loyal campaign adviser, to be his White House chief of staff, turning to a Washington insider whose friendship with the House speaker, Paul Ryan, could help secure early legislative victories, according to people involved in Trump’s transition effort.
华盛顿——周日，当选总统唐纳德·特朗普选择他忠实的竞选顾问、共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)担任白宫幕僚长，这位华盛顿圈内人与众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)的友谊能帮他在早期确保立法方面的胜利。该消息来自参与特朗普交接工作的人。
In selecting Priebus, the president-elect passed over Stephen Bannon, the right-wing media mogul who oversaw his presidential campaign. If Trump had appointed Bannon, a fierce critic of the Republican establishment, it would have demonstrated a continued disdain for a party that Trump fought throughout his campaign.
选择普利巴斯，代表这位当选总统放弃了之前统管他竞选活动的右翼媒体大亨斯蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)。如果特朗普任命共和党建制派的尖锐评论者班农当幕僚长，就会表明他依然鄙视这个自己在竞选期间一直与之争斗的政党。
Trump’s choice is certain to anger some of his most conservative supporters, many of whom expect him to battle the Washington establishment over issues like taxes, immigration, trade, health care and the environment. They view Priebus as a dealmaker who will be too eager to push the new president toward compromise.
特朗普的选择势必会激怒他的一些最保守的支持者，他们中的许多人期待他能在税收、移民、贸易、医疗及环境问题上挑战华盛顿建制势力。他们认为普利巴斯是个交易人，会太急于促使新任总统妥协。
In a statement Sunday afternoon, the transition team said Bannon would serve as the chief strategist and senior counselor in the White House. It emphasized that the two men would work “as equal partners to transform the federal government.”
交接团队在上周日下午发布的声明中表示，班农会担任白宫首席策略师和高级顾问。文中强调，两人会“作为改变联邦政府的平等伙伴”展开工作。
Bannon — the longtime chairman of Breitbart News, a site distinguished by its nationalist, racially charged, conspiracy-laden coverage — is likely to serve as a conduit to the populist right and conservative media outlets.
班农长期担任布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)董事长，这是一个以民族主义、种族主义和阴谋论色彩的报道著称的网站。他有可能担任右翼民粹分子和保守新闻机构的中间人。
The transition team appeared eager to ease concerns among Trump’s most fervent supporters over the selection of Priebus. To that end, the statement mentioned Bannon first.
交接团队似乎急于缓解特朗普最热心的支持者对他选择普利巴斯的担忧，因此在声明中首先提到了班农。
“We had a very successful partnership on the campaign, one that led to victory,” Bannon said in the statement. “We will have that same partnership in working to help President-elect Trump achieve his agenda.”
“我们在竞选中建立了成功的伙伴关系，一段带来胜利的关系，”班农在声明中表示。“我们将继续这段关系，竭力帮助当选总统特朗普实现他的议程。”
Priebus said he looked forward to working with Bannon and Trump “to create an economy that works for everyone, secure our borders, repeal and replace Obamacare and destroy radical Islamic terrorism.”
普利巴斯表示，他期待与班农和特朗普一起合作，“创造一个有益于所有人的经济，保障边境安全，废除和替换奥巴马医改，摧毁极端穆斯林恐怖主义。”
Priebus is expected to have multiple deputies, including Katie Walsh, the chief of staff of the Republican National Committee, who is close to Priebus and helped ensure a tight working relationship between the party’s operational infrastructure and Trump’s campaign.
普利巴斯会有多名副手，其中包括共和党全国委员会幕僚长凯蒂·沃尔什(Katie Walsh)。此人与普利巴斯关系密切，曾协助确保共和党各机构与特朗普的团队达成紧密的工作关系。