ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — The Trump Plaza Casino and Hotel is closed, its windows clouded over by sea salt. Only a faint outline of the gold letters spelling out T-R-U-M-P remains visible on the exterior of what was once this city’s premier casino.
新泽西州大西洋城——特朗普广场赌场酒店(Trump Plaza Casino and Hotel)已经关闭，窗户上密布着盐渍。它曾是城中的知名赌场，而今，其外立面上的金色字母“T-R-U-M-P”只剩下依稀可辨的轮廓。
Not far away, the long-failing Trump Marina Hotel Casino was sold at a major loss five years ago and is now known as the Golden Nugget.
不远处，长期经营不善的特朗普船坞酒店赌场(Trump Marina Hotel Casino )已于五年前赔血本售出，现在名为金砖赌场(Golden Nugget)。
At the nearly deserted eastern end of the boardwalk, the Trump Taj Mahal, now under new ownership, is all that remains of the casino empire Donald Trump assembled here more than a quarter-century ago. Years of neglect show: The carpets are frayed and dust-coated chandeliers dangle above the few customers there to play the penny slot machines.
几乎空无一人的大道东端，是所有权已经变更的特朗普泰姬陵赌场(Trump Taj Mahal)——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)逾四分之一世纪前在大西洋城打造的赌场帝国，如今只剩下它了。映入眼帘的是一幅常年疏于打理的景象：地毯破旧不堪，寥寥无几的顾客在积满灰尘的吊灯下方玩着角子老虎机。
On the presidential campaign trail, Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, often boasts of his success in Atlantic City, of how he outwitted the Wall Street firms that financed his casinos and rode the value of his name to riches. A central argument of his candidacy is that he would bring the same business prowess to the Oval Office, doing for America what he did for his companies.
参加竞选活动时，稳获共和党总统候选人提名的特朗普常常吹嘘，他在大西洋城获得了何等的成功，他如何智胜为其赌场提供资金的华尔街公司，并凭借特朗普这块金字招牌发了家。他参选的一个主要理由是，他会把同样的商业能力带到椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)，像经营自己的公司那样经营美国。
“Atlantic City fueled a lot of growth for me,” Trump said in an interview in May, summing up his 25-year history here. “The money I took out of there was incredible.”
“大西洋城让我收获颇丰，”特朗普在今年5月的一次采访中，如此总结他在这座城市25年的经营历程。“我从那儿赚的钱多到令人难以置信。”
His audacious personality and opulent properties brought attention — and countless players — to Atlantic City as it sought to overtake Las Vegas as the country’s gambling capital. But a close examination by The New York Times of regulatory reviews, court records and security filings leaves little doubt that Trump’s casino business was a protracted failure. Though he now says his casinos were overtaken by the same tidal wave that eventually slammed this seaside city’s gambling industry, in reality he was failing in Atlantic City long before Atlantic City itself was failing.
在大西洋城竭力与拉斯维加斯争夺美国“赌都”之位的年代，特朗普大胆的个性及其旗下富丽堂皇的物业不仅博得了眼球，还把无数玩家吸引到了这座城市。但《纽约时报》(The New York Times)对监管审查信息、法庭记录以及证劵备案文件的仔细审视确凿无误地表明，特朗普的赌场生意其实是一场旷日持久的失败。虽然他现在声称，把他的赌场掀翻在地的恶浪，最终也让这座海滨城市的博彩业遭受了沉重打击，但事实上，早在大西洋城陷入衰退很久之前，他在这里的生意就已经开始失败了。
But even as his companies did poorly, Trump did well. He put up little of his own money, shifted personal debts to the casinos and collected millions of dollars in salary, bonuses and other payments. The burden of his failures fell on investors and others who had bet on his business acumen.
不过，尽管特朗普的公司表现糟糕，他本人却春风得意。他基本没投入自有资金，把私人债务转移给了赌场，还通过领取工资、奖金以及其他款项拿到了数以百万计的美元。他的生意失败了，担责的却是投资者以及其他一些押注于他的商业头脑的人。
In three interviews with The Times since late April, Trump acknowledged in general terms that high debt and lagging revenues had plagued his casinos. He did not recall details about some issues, but did not question The Times’s findings. He repeatedly emphasized that what really mattered about his time in Atlantic City was that he had made a lot of money there.
今年4月末以来三次接受时报采访期间，特朗普笼统地承认，高企的债务和疲软的收入一直困扰着他的赌场。他未就一些问题回忆细节，但也没有质疑时报的发现。他反复强调，关于他在大西洋城的时光，真正重要的是他在那儿赚得盆满钵满。
Trump assembled his casino empire by borrowing money at such high interest rates — after telling regulators he would not — that the businesses had almost no chance to succeed.
特朗普以借来的资金创建了自己的赌场帝国，要支付非常高的利息——他此前曾告诉监管部门不会这样做——以至于相关公司基本不可能赚到钱。
His casino companies made four trips to bankruptcy court, each time persuading bondholders to accept less money rather than be wiped out. But the companies repeatedly added more expensive debt and returned to the court for protection from lenders.
他的赌场公司曾四度走上破产法庭，每一次都能说服债券持有人同意少拿一些钱，以免血本无归。但接下来这些公司会增发利息更高的债务，然后返回法庭，再度申请破产保护。
After narrowly escaping financial ruin in the early 1990s by delaying payments on his debts, Trump avoided a second potential crisis by taking his casinos public and shifting the risk to stockholders.
在1990年代初通过延迟偿还债务而极为惊险地避免了破产之后，特朗布又通过让旗下赌场上市，把风险转嫁给了股票持有者，从而避免了潜在的又一场危机。
But he never was able to draw in enough gamblers to support all of the borrowing. During a decade when other casinos here thrived, Trump’s lagged, posting huge losses year after year. Stock and bondholders lost more than $1.5 billion.
但他从来都没能吸引到偿还债务所需要的足够赌客。在十年时间里，当其他赌场欣欣向荣的时候，特朗普的赌场却表现不佳，年复一年地出现巨亏。股票和债券持有人的损失在15亿美元以上。
All the while, Trump received copious amounts for himself, with the help of a compliant board. In one instance, The Times found, Trump pulled more than $1 million from his failing public company, describing the transaction in securities filings in ways that may have been illegal, according to legal experts.
其间，特朗普却在一个颇为宽容的董事会帮助下，为自己谋取了大笔利益。仅举一例。时报发现，特朗普从旗下失败的上市公司中抽取了超过100万美元资金，在证券备案文件中，他以在法律专家看来可能属于非法的方式描述了这项交易。
Trump now says he left Atlantic City at the perfect time. The record, however, shows that he struggled to hang on to his casinos years after the city had peaked, and failed only because his investors no longer wanted him in a management role.
特朗普现在说，他是在最合适的时间离开了大西洋城。然而这份纪录表明，这座城市的巅峰期过去之后，他还想努力保住这些赌场，却没有成功，因为投资者们不希望他继续担任管理职务。
There are those here who fondly remember Trump’s showmanship, the thousands he employed in a struggling city, and the tens of millions of dollars in tax revenue his casinos generated.
大西洋城还有不少人深深地记得特朗普善于表演的才华，他曾为这个处境艰难的城市提供了成千上万的就业机会，以及他的赌场提供了数以千万美元计的税收。
“He was a great person for the company,” said Scott C. Butera, president of Trump’s company at the time of its 2004 bankruptcy. “With his oversight, his brand and marketing, he’s really adept.”
“对公司来说，他是个非常好的人，”斯科特·C·巴特拉(Scott C. Butera)说，特朗普的公司于2004年倒闭时，他担任公司总裁。“他有远见，能打造品牌，有市场策略，他真的是个行家。”
Others were hurt.
但也有不少人觉得很受伤。
“He helped expand Atlantic City, but he just did not put the equity into the projects he should have to keep them solvent,” said H. Steven Norton, a casino consultant and a former casino executive at Resorts International. “When he went bankrupt, he not only cost bondholders money, but he hurt a lot of small businesses that helped him construct the Taj Mahal.”
“他帮助大西洋城发展起来，但他没有把股份投入到他应该投入的那些项目中去，以便帮助它们保持债务清偿能力，”赌场顾问兼国际胜地公司(Resorts International)前赌场负责人H·史蒂文·诺顿(H Steven Norton)说。“他破产时，不仅令债券持有人蒙受损失，也伤害了很多帮助他打造特朗普泰姬陵赌场的小企业。”
Beth Rosser of West Chester, Pennsylvania, is still bitter over what happened to her father, whose company Triad Building Specialties nearly collapsed when Trump took the Taj into bankruptcy. It took three years to recover any money owed for his work on the casino, she said, and her father received only 30 cents on the dollar.
宾夕法尼亚州西切斯特市的贝丝·罗瑟(Beth Rosser)仍然对父亲的遭遇愤愤不平，特朗普令泰姬陵倒闭时，她父亲的三重建筑专业公司(Triad Building Specialties)也几乎因此解体。她说，公司等了三年时间才追回建造那座赌场的欠款，她的父亲也只拿到30%的钱。
“Trump crawled his way to the top on the back of little guys, one of them being my father,” said Rosser, who runs Triad today. “He had no regard for thousands of men and women who worked on those projects. He says he’ll make America great again, but his past shows the complete opposite of that.”
“特朗普踩着一群小人物的身上爬到顶端，其中一个就是我父亲，”罗瑟说。如今她掌管三重建筑专业公司。“他完全不顾及成千上万为那些项目工作的男男女女。他说他会让美国再次繁荣，但他的过去表明完全相反的情况。”
Though he has acknowledged mistakes in piling crippling debt on Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, Trump has steadfastly maintained that his resorts were the best-run and highest-performing casinos in Atlantic City.
虽然特朗普承认自己在特朗普酒店赌场度假村(Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts)堆积了严重的债务，存在过错，但他坚信自己的度假村是大西洋城经营最佳、收益最高的赌场。
“The casinos have done very well from a business standpoint,” he told Playboy magazine in 2004. “People agree that they’re well run, they look good and customers love them.”
“从生意角度讲，那些赌场经营得很好，”2004年他接受《花花公子》杂志(Playboy)采访时说，“人们都认同，它们经营得很好，看起来很棒，顾客们都很喜欢它们。”
In reality, the revenue at Trump’s casinos had consistently lagged behind their competitors’ for a decade before larger forces ravaged the industry. Beginning in 1997, his share of the Atlantic City gambling market began to slip from its peak of 30 percent.
事实上，在更大的力量毁坏那个行业之前的十年里，特朗普赌场的收益始终落后于竞争对手们。从1997年起，他在大西洋城赌博市场上的份额开始下滑，比巅峰时期下降了30%。
Revenues at other Atlantic City casinos rose 18 percent from 1997 through 2002; Trump’s fell 1 percent.
从1997年至2002年，大西洋城其他赌场的收入增长了18%，而特朗普的赌场下降了1%。
Competition grew more intense in 2003, when the Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa opened. The $1.1 billion, 40-story resort redefined the concept of an Atlantic City luxury casino. Revenues at Trump casinos dropped an additional 6 percent in a little more than a year.
2003年，百佳塔赌场水疗酒店(Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa)开业后，竞争变得更加激烈。这个投资11亿美元的40层度假村重新定义了大西洋城奢华赌场的概念。特朗普赌场的收益在一年多的时间里又下跌了6%。
Had Trump’s revenues grown at the rate of other Atlantic City casinos, his company could have made its interest payments and possibly registered a profit. But with sagging revenues and high costs, his casinos had too little money for renovations and improvements, which are vital for hotels to attract guests. The public company never logged a profitable year.
如果特朗普赌场的收益增长率能赶上大西洋城的其他赌场，那么他的公司本能够支付利息，甚至可能盈利。但是下滑的收入和高昂的成本，导致他的赌场几乎没有钱可供装修和翻新，而这些对酒店吸引宾客至关重要。这家上市公司从未有任何一年盈利。
“There’s something not right when every single one of your projects doesn’t work out,” said Marvin B. Roffman, a casino analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott, an investment firm based in Philadelphia.
“如果你的每个项目都不成功，那么这中间肯定有问题，”费城投资公司詹尼-蒙哥马利-斯科特公司(Janney Montgomery Scott)的赌场分析师马文·B·罗夫曼(Marvin B. Roffman)说。
Trump Marina was sold for $38 million, less than 10 percent of what the company paid Trump for it in 1996. The Plaza was shuttered. But Trump continued to earn money from the casinos. In 2011, the casinos reported leasing a Trump helicopter for $390,000 and spending $236,000 for “Trump labeled merchandise,” including $197,000 for Trump Ice bottled water.
特朗普码头度假村(Trump Marina)以3800万美元售出，不到1996年这家公司向特朗普支付的购买费的10%。特朗普广场赌场酒店停业了。但是特朗普继续从赌场赚钱。据报道，2011年，那些赌场花费39万美元租赁特朗普的一架直升飞机，花费23.6万美元购买“特朗普品牌商品”，包括为“特朗普冰”矿泉水(Trump Ice)花费的19.7万美元。
In retrospect, David Hanlon, a veteran casino executive who ran Merv Griffin’s Atlantic City operations, said, Trump succeeded in repeatedly convincing investors, bankers and Wall Street that “his name had real value.”
管理梅尔夫·格里芬(Merv Griffin)的大西洋城生意的资深赌场主管大卫·汉隆(David Hanlon)说，回想起来，特朗普成功地屡次说服投资者、银行家和华尔街，“他的名字具有真正的价值”。
“They were so in love with him that they came back a second, third and fourth time,” Hanlon said. “They let him strip out assets. It was awful to watch. It was astonishing. I have to give Trump credit for using his celebrity time and time again.”
“他们太喜欢他了，一次又一次地上当，”汉隆说，“他们任由他把资产掏空。简直惨不忍睹。不可思议。我不得不佩服特朗普反复利用自己名声的本事。”
Some of Trump’s former investors no longer see the value.
特朗普的一些前投资人不再认可这种价值。
“People underestimated Donald Trump’s ability to pillage the company,” said Sebastian Pignatello, a private investor who at one time held stock in the Trump casinos worth more than $500,000. “He drove these companies into bankruptcy by his mismanagement, the debt and his pillaging.”
“人们低估了唐纳德·特朗普掠夺公司的能力，”私人投资者塞巴斯蒂安·皮格纳特罗(Sebastian Pignatello)说。他一度持有特朗普赌场价值50多万美元的股票。“由于他管理不善，再加上债务和他的掠夺，这些公司被他弄破产。”