WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Wednesday that he was willing and eager to be interviewed by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential campaign, insisting that he has done nothing wrong.
华盛顿——特朗普周三表示，自己愿意接受并期待调查俄罗斯干预2016年总统大选的特别检察官罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)的问讯，并称自己没有做错任何事情。
“I’m looking forward to it, actually,” Mr. Trump said of talking to Mr. Mueller, answering months of speculation over whether he was willing to submit to questions from the special counsel, who is also believed to be looking into whether the Trump campaign aided Moscow’s effort and whether the president sought to thwart the inquiry itself.
“我其实是期待的，”对于与穆勒谈话一事，特朗普这样说道，这回答了数月以来有关他是否会接受特别检察官问话的猜测。据信，后者正在对特朗普竞选是否曾受莫斯科方面协助进行调查，还在了解总统是否试图阻止这方面的调查。
“Here’s the story, just so you understand,” Mr. Trump said during an impromptu question-and-answer session with reporters in the West Wing. “There’s been no collusion whatsoever. There’s no obstruction whatsoever, and I’m looking forward to it.”
“是想让你们知道，事情就是，”特朗普在白宫西翼与记者即兴进行的一场问答中说。“不存在什么串通。不存在什么妨碍司法，而且我是很期待的。”
Mr. Trump suggested that his efforts to defend himself against damaging allegations had been unfairly misinterpreted as wrongdoing.
特朗普表示，他为这些对自己有害的指控作出辩解的努力，都被不公正地解读成了不当行为。
“You fight back,” he said, and such a response is characterized as, “‘Oh, it’s obstruction.’”
“你会反击，”他说，而这样的反应就会被描述成，“哦，这是在妨碍。”
The president’s surprise exchange with about 20 reporters served as a reminder of the extent to which Mr. Trump sees the Russia inquiry as simply an invalidation of his electoral victory, and feels a deep sense of bitterness about the narrative surrounding his presidency.
总统出其不意地与约20位记者交谈，从中可以看到他在多大程度上认为，俄罗斯调查根本就是对他的选举胜利的一种否定，并且对围绕他的总统任期的舆论叙事有种深深的怨恨。
His lawyers have been negotiating for weeks with Mr. Mueller’s team about the prospect of having him answer questions in the inquiry, including what topics would be covered. Mr. Trump said last year he would be willing to speak with Mr. Mueller, but has more recently suggested that should not be necessary because the allegations being examined were baseless.
他的律师已经与穆勒团队就特朗普在问讯中作出回答的可能性进行了数周的商谈，包括会涉及哪些话题。特朗普去年曾表示自己愿意与穆勒谈话，但近来又提出这并非必须，因为所审查的指控都毫无根据。
While there are risks for the president submitting to such an interview, some senior White House officials have argued that Mr. Trump should do so in the interest of bringing a swift end to an investigation that has cast a shadow over his presidency. People familiar with Mr. Trump’s thinking have long described private conversations with the president in which he has said he is eager to meet with Mr. Mueller, a product of his belief that he can sell or coax almost anyone into seeing things his way.
虽然让总统接受问讯确有风险，但一些白宫高级官员认为，为了能尽快消除这个一直笼罩着他的总统任期的阴影，特朗普应该这么做。一直都有熟悉特朗普想法的人说，在私下里他表示过，非常期待和穆勒面谈，这是源于他的一个信念——任何人都禁不住他的说服或劝诱，会开始以他的方式看待问题。
“I would love to do that — I’d like to do it as soon as possible,” the president told reporters on Wednesday of the prospect of being interviewed by Mr. Mueller, adding that his lawyers have told him it would be “about two to three weeks” until it takes place. Almost as an afterthought, he added, any such interview would be “subject to my lawyers, and all of that.”
“我很乐意这么做——我也希望越快越好，”特朗普在周三谈及接受穆勒问讯的可能性时对记者说道，还说他的律师告诉他这还得再过“大约两三个星期”。仿佛最后时刻想起来要添点什么，他说，这样的面谈肯定“是我的律师决定的，诸如此类”。
Many of the potential questions relate to whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, people briefed on the discussions have said. They have said they expect the interview to be completed by the end of February or early March.
据了解相关讨论的人说，届时可能提出的问题，有许多跟特朗普妨碍司法公正有关。他们说预计问询会在二月底或三月初完成。
Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer leading the response to the investigation, said Mr. Trump was speaking hurriedly and intended only to say that he was willing to meet.
负责回应调查事务的白宫律师泰·柯布(Ty Cobb)表示，特朗普是在匆忙之下进行的谈话，并且只是想表示自己见面的意愿。
“He’s ready to meet with them, but he’ll be guided by the advice of his personal counsel,” Mr. Cobb said. He said the arrangements were being worked out between Mr. Mueller’s team and the president’s personal lawyers.
“他已经准备好和他们见面了，但是会是在他的个人法务顾问的指导之下，”科布说。他表示穆勒的团队和总统的个人律师正在安排。
The White House has made many witnesses available for interviews with prosecutors, and officials have said there are no discussions about Mr. Trump speaking before a grand jury, which is how prosecutors speak to witnesses under oath. Interviews with agents and prosecutors are not conducted under oath, but lying to the F.B.I. is a felony.
白宫已经安排很多证人接受检察官的问讯，此外官员称没有谈到让特朗普在大陪审团面前发言，这是检方向宣誓证人问话的方式。接受特工和检察官的问讯无需宣誓，但对FBI撒谎是重罪。
Pressed on whether he would be willing to answer questions under oath, Mr. Trump first asked a reporter whether Hillary Clinton, his 2016 campaign rival, had done so in the investigation into her use of a private email server while she served as secretary of state. Mrs. Clinton gave a voluntary interview to F.B.I. investigators in July 2016, and was not under oath, as is typical for such sessions.
在被追问是否愿意在宣誓后回答提问时，特朗普先问记者，他在2016年大选中的竞争对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，在对她担任国务卿期间使用私人电子邮件服务器进行的调查中，是不是这么做的。2016年7月，克林顿自愿接受FBI调查人员的问讯，没有宣誓，这是此类情况的典型做法。
President Bill Clinton testified under oath in 1998 about his relationship with a White House intern. He was questioned on camera in the White House Map Room and the testimony was broadcast to a Washington grand jury room.
1998年，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统就其与一名白宫实习生的关系宣誓作证。他在白宫地图室面对摄像机接受问讯，证词被传至华盛顿大陪审团所在的房间。
Mr. Trump spoke with reporters in the doorway of his chief of staff’s office, interrupting a background briefing with a senior administration official on immigration with his own roughly one-minute informal news conference before he departed for the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
特朗普中断了一名高级政府官员就移民问题向他做的背景简报，在自己的幕僚长的办公室门前与记者交谈，开了一场一分钟左右的非正式新闻发布会，随后即启程前往瑞士达沃斯参加世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)。
Mr. Trump also said he did not recall questioning Andrew G. McCabe, the deputy F.B.I. director, during a job interview about how he voted in the 2016 presidential election, after White House officials conceded on Tuesday that the president had, in fact, asked the question.
特朗普还说他不记得在一次面试时问过FBI副局长安德鲁·G·麦凯布(Andrew G. McCabe)在2016年大选中把票投给了谁。此前，白宫官员周二承认，特朗普实际上问过这个问题。
“I don’t think so; no, I don’t think I did,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “I don’t know what’s the big deal with that.”
“我不这么认为，没有，我认为我没有问，”特朗普说，并接着表示，“我不知道这有什么大不了的。”
Added Mr. Trump: “I don’t remember asking him the question. I think it’s also a very unimportant question.” The two met after the president fired the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, as Mr. Trump was deciding if he would name Mr. McCabe the acting director of the bureau. Mr. Trump’s query was an unusual and overtly political one for a discussion with a senior official in the Justice Department, which is supposed to operate independent of political influence.
特朗普补充说：“我不记得问过他这个问题。我认为这也是一个非常不重要的问题。”两人是在总统解雇FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B.Comey)后见面的，当时特朗普正要决定是否提名麦凯布为FBI代理局长。对与司法部高级官员之间的谈话来说，特朗普的问题不同寻常，且明显具有政治意味。司法部本应独立于政治影响之外。
But Mr. Trump appeared to concede that he was concerned about Mr. McCabe’s political affiliation, noting that his wife ran for office in Virginia in 2015 with political support from Terry McAuliffe, a close ally of the Clintons.
但特朗普似乎承认他担心麦凯布的政治立场，并指出他妻子2015年在弗吉尼亚州竞选公职时，得到了克林顿一家的亲密盟友特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)的政治支持。
“The wife got $500 from Terry,” Mr. Trump said. “Terry is Hillary.”
“他妻子收了特里500美元，”特朗普说。“特里就是希拉里。”
As he wrapped up the session, the president asked one TV reporter to make sure she aired a “nice piece” about him, expressing his frustration that journalists do not acknowledge his strength as a candidate.
结束采访时，总统让一名电视记者确保她发出的是一篇有关他的“正面报道”，表达了他对记者不承认他作为候选人的实力的失望。
“There’s no collusion,” Mr. Trump said as he left. “I couldn’t have cared less about Russians having to do with my campaign.”
“不存在串通，”特朗普离开的时候说。“我对俄罗斯和我的竞选有什么关系完全不感兴趣。”
“The fact is, you people won’t say this, but I’ll say it: I was a much better candidate than her,” the president went on, referring to Mrs. Clinton. “You always say she was a bad candidate; you never say I was a good candidate. I was one of the greatest candidates.”
“事实是，你们这些人不会说出来，但我要说：我是一个比她好得多的候选人，”特朗普接着说。他指的是克林顿。“你们总是说她是一个糟糕的候选人，但你们从来不说我是个优秀的候选人。我是最优秀的候选人之一。”