The voice of a president is typically dignified, measured, even solemn at times. If elected, Donald J. Trump could change all that.
一位总统的语言通常是庄严的、慎重的，有时甚至是严肃的。如果唐纳德·J.·特朗普当选，可能会改变这一切。
Mr. Trump’s word choices differ markedly from those of America’s past five presidents, according to a review of his public utterances over the past week.
回顾过去一周他的公开讲话，特朗普先生跟美国过去五位总统的用词选择显著不同。
Mr. Trump’s language is darker, more violent and more prone to insults and aggrandizing.
特朗普先生的语言更加黑暗，更加暴力，更带有侮辱性，也更夸张。
He Sees Stupidity Everywhere
他眼中的愚蠢无处不在
How often have you heard a president of the United States call something – let alone somebody — stupid? It is extremely rare.
你常听到一位美国总统称某事物——更不用说某人了——为愚蠢吗？这极其少见。
“Maddeningly stupid” was how Bill Clinton described some of Saddam Hussein’s actions in 1997. President Obama said the Cambridge, Mass., police had acted “stupidly” in arresting Henry Louis Gates Jr. in his home in 2009.
“令人发狂的愚蠢”是1997年比尔·克林顿用来描述萨达姆·侯赛因的某些行动的。奥巴马总统称马塞诸塞州剑桥市警察于2009年在家中逮捕小亨利·路易斯·盖茨的行动“愚蠢”。
But Mr. Trump? Over the past week, he called his political opponents “stupid” at least 30 times in public.
而特朗普先生？过去一周，他至少30次在公开场合称呼其政治对手“愚蠢”。
“We are being run by stupid people,” he said. “I used to say incompetent. But stupid is really, you know, is the next stage.”
“我们被愚蠢的人管理着，”他说。“我过去常说无能。但愚蠢真是，你知道，下一阶段。”
On another occasion he cast the blame widely. “We’re stupid people, we’re being led by stupid people, and we’re stupid because we allow these people to get into office.”
还有一次，他宽泛地抛出责备。“我们是愚蠢的人，我们被愚蠢的人领导，我们愚蠢是因为我们允许这些人上台。”
Me, Myself and I
我，我自己和我
Mr. Trump talks about himself a lot, using first-person singular pronouns like “I” and “me” more often than the recent presidents did.
特朗普先生总是谈论他自己，比最近几位总统使用第一人称单数代词诸如“我（主语）”和“我（宾语）”的频率更高。
He uses these words about as often as George Bush, and more than President Obama. The claim that Mr. Obama talks about himself especially often — that is, uses first-person singular pronouns – is a popular meme, but it isn’t true.
他差不多和乔治·布什一样经常地使用这些单词，比奥巴马总统多。有关奥巴马经常谈论他自己的说法——就是说，使用第一人称单数代词——是个大众谈资，但这并不真实。
A Lot of Problems
问题很多
Mr. Trump’s language is pessimistic. He uses the word “problem” often — at least 87 times in the past week. “I want to make this country so great again, it’s got such problems,” he said.
特朗普先生的语言是悲观的。他经常使用“问题”——过去一周内至少用了87次。他说，“我想要让这个国家恢复伟大荣光，它有这些问题。”
There is also much, in Mr. Trump’s view, that is terrible – a word he uttered 20 times. “We got this one guy, he’s terrible, he’s the worst debater I’ve ever seen,” Mr. Trump said of Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, another contender for the Republican nomination. “He’s terrible. He’s terrible,” he added seconds later.
在特朗普先生看来，还有太多事情是糟糕的——他用了20次这个单词。“有这么个人，他糟透了，他是我见过的最差的辩论者，”特朗普先生这样描述俄亥俄州州长约翰·R.·卡西奇。他是另一位共和党提名的竞争者。“他糟透了。他糟透了，”他几秒钟之后补充道。
Make Everything ‘Great’ (Again)
让一切（再次）“伟大起来”
To Mr. Trump, things are merely good (114 times) less often than they are great (168), even excluding his frequent campaign pledges to make America again.
对于特朗普先生来说，仅仅只是好的事情（他用了114次）比伟大的事情（168次）少，甚至抛开他频繁的让美国恢复伟大荣光的竞选承诺。
What is great, in Mr. Trump’s view? His hotels. His memory. His temperament. The people he will put in charge of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The city of Sarasota, Fla. His respect for the people of Mexico. And, of course, the wall he wants to build on the border with that country.
在特朗普看来，什么是伟大？他的饭店。他的记忆。他的气质。他要安排负责退伍军人事务部的那些人。佛罗里达州萨拉索塔市。他对墨西哥人民的尊敬。当然还有，他想要建立在美国和那个国家边境线上的那堵墙。