It was another billionaire, Peter Thiel, who realized the full potential of bankrolling other people’s lawsuits. Thiel, an influential figure in Silicon Valley who was a founder of PayPal and sits on the board of Facebook, is now an adviser to Donald Trump. Thiel and other Silicon Valley executives were regular targets of Gawker’s aggressive reporting and mockery. In 2007, the site ran an article titled “Peter Thiel Is Totally Gay, People.” Thiel didn’t sue on his own behalf. But he secretly paid a Hollywood lawyer, Charles Harder, at least $10 million to sue Gawker on behalf of a suite of plaintiffs. Neither Thiel or Harder will say how many suits Thiel funded, but Harder has filed at least five against the website and its writers and editors. (He also represents Melania Trump in a $150 million suit in the United States against the British tabloid The Daily Mail and a Maryland blogger for calling her an “escort.”) When Thiel’s role was revealed by Forbes magazine, Thiel said his goal was “less about revenge and more about specific deterrence.” Asked in October about his secrecy, Thiel said, “Transparency would have turned it into this very different narrative” that “it’s this billionaire trying to squash the First Amendment.” (He declined to comment for this article.)
另一位亿万富豪彼得·蒂尔(Peter Thiel)，则认识到了在资助其他人打官司方面可以有多大作为。在硅谷极具影响力的蒂尔，是贝宝(PayPal)的联合创始人，还是Facebook的董事会成员，眼下又当上了唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的顾问。高客网(Gawker)以前常常发表针对蒂尔以及硅谷其他高管的攻击性报道，并对其百般挪揄。2007年，该网站发表了一篇题为“亲们，彼得·蒂尔是彻头彻尾的同性恋”的文章。蒂尔没有以自己的名义起诉该网站。但他秘密付给好莱坞律师查尔斯·哈德(Charles Harder)至少1000万美元，让后者代表一系列原告起诉高客网。蒂尔和哈德都拒绝透露蒂尔到底资助了多少桩诉讼，但哈德起诉该网站及其作者和编辑的次数至少有五次。（他还代表梅拉尼娅·特朗普[Melania Trump]在美国起诉过英国小报《每日邮报》[The Daily Mail]，要求对方赔偿1.5亿美元；并起诉过马里兰州的一名称她为“三陪女”的博客作者。）当《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志将蒂尔所扮演的角色曝光的时候，蒂尔表示他的目的“与其说是报复，不如说是予以明确的震慑”。于今年10月被问及为何秘密行事时，蒂尔说，“如果公开行动，人们对这件事就会有非常不同的说法”，会说“这名亿万富豪正试图碾压第一修正案”。（他拒绝就本文置评。）
Last March, while Thiel’s role remained hidden, one of the suits he funded went to trial in Florida. The plaintiff, the aging wrestler-entertainer Hulk Hogan, sued Gawker for violating his privacy by publishing a brief video clip in October 2012 that showed him having sex. Hogan, whose real name is Terry G. Bollea, testified that he was emotionally devastated. Yet when he learned of the existence of the sex tape seven months earlier, Hogan appeared on “TMZ Live,” joking about having sex with “several brunettes.”
今年3月，蒂尔所扮演的角色尚未浮出水面的时候，他资助的一桩诉讼在佛罗里达州进入了庭审阶段。原告是上了年纪的职业摔跤手霍克·霍肯(Hulk Hogan)，因高客网曾在2012年10月发布了他的一小段性爱视频而状告该网站侵犯隐私。真名为特里·G·博莱(Terry G. Bollea)的霍肯作证说，他在情感上受到了毁灭性的打击。不过，霍肯在7个月前得知有这么一段性爱视频时，曾出现在《TMZ Live》节目上，拿跟“几个黑发妞”做爱开过玩笑。
It’s common for judges to dismiss privacy suits when the plaintiff has encouraged news interest. In a preliminary ruling before trial, the Florida Court of Appeals said that Gawker posted the sex tape as part of an “ongoing public discussion,” citing Hogan’s appearance on “TMZ” and later on “The Howard Stern Show.” But Judge Pamela Campbell, who presided over the trial, instructed the jury to decide for itself whether the publication of the sex tape was “highly offensive to a reasonable person” and “not of legitimate concern to the public.”
如果隐私权案件的原告做出主动激起媒体兴趣的举动，法官通常会驳回起诉。审判前，佛罗里达上诉法院(Florida Court of Appeals)在初步裁定中称高客网是把性爱视频当作一场“正在进行的公共讨论”的组成部分来发布的，其所援引的理由是霍肯先上了《TMZ Live》，随后又上了《霍华德·斯特恩秀》(The Howard Stern Show)。不过，主持审理该案的法官帕米拉·坎贝尔(Pamela Campbell)让陪审团自行认定，发布性爱视频之举是否会“强烈冒犯到一个正常人”，是否与“公众的合理关切”无关。
The jury seemed to channel the public’s low regard for the press when they awarded Hogan $140 million in damages. “It just wasn’t about punishment of these individuals and Gawker,” one juror told ABC after the trial. “You had to do it enough where it makes an example in society and other media organizations.” Within two months, Gawker’s parent company declared bankruptcy. Gawker was sold and ceased publication.
陪审团裁定霍肯应该得到1.4亿美元损害赔偿，这似乎反映了公众对新闻界的轻视。“这不仅是对相关个人以及高客网的惩罚，”一名陪审员在审判后告诉ABC。“你必须把事情做足，让整个社会以及其他媒体机构都看到，以儆效尤。”两个月后，高客网的母公司宣布破产。高客网被卖了出去，停止了更新。
In the half-century since New York Times v. Sullivan, the United States has often held itself up to the world as a beacon for the free press. American libel law, the theory goes, protects writers and publishers better than the laws of countries like Britain, where it’s easier to win a libel judgment. Yet giant jury awards don’t topple publications in the United Kingdom: The country has an unofficial damages cap of about £250,000 (plus legal fees). British publishers can, in essence, treat compensating someone whose reputation they have harmed as a cost of doing business. And it’s less risky for them to apologize for a story that turns out to be wrong. “There are limits on damages for malpractice suits against doctors,” says Robert Post, dean of the Yale Law School. “Why not for journalists?”
自《纽约时报》诉沙利文案以来的半个世纪里，美国在世界上一向自诩为言论自由的灯塔。理论上，美国的诽谤法对作者和出版商的保护要好过其他一些国家，譬如诽谤官司的原告很容易胜诉的英国。不过，英国的出版商不会因为被陪审团裁定支付巨额赔偿金而倒掉：在英国，根据不成为的规定，损害赔偿金的上限约为25万英镑（外加法律费用）。英国的出版商其实可以把因为损害某人的名誉而做出的赔偿当成业务成本。对它们来说，如果事实证明某篇文章是错误的，出面道个歉也没有那么大的风险。“在医疗事故诉讼中，医生赔偿的金额是有限度的，”耶鲁大学法学院(Yale Law School)院长罗伯特·波斯特(Robert Post)说。“对记者为什么就不能一视同仁呢？”
It’s tempting to treat Gawker’s demise as unique or deserved. But that’s a false form of reassurance, a former editor of the site, Tom Scocca, argued in August. Every publication “is prepared to absorb the damage when it makes a mistake,” he wrote on Gawker. “What Thiel’s covert campaign against Gawker did was to invisibly change the terms of the risk calculation.” The lesson, Scocca told his readers, is that “you live in a country where a billionaire can put a publication out of business.”
人们很容易把高客网的倒掉当成特例，或者认为它罪有应得。但该网站的前编辑汤姆·斯科卡(Tom Scocca)在今年8月表示，这是一种完全错误的慰藉之辞。每家出版商“在犯错的时候都做好了承担赔偿责任的准备，”他在高客网上写道。“而蒂尔发起的针对高客的秘密行动，无形中改变了风险评估所基于的条件。”斯科卡告诉读者，从中可以得到的教训是：“你生活在一个亿万富翁有本事让刊物倒掉的国家里”。
What’s new here are two forces squeezing journalism like pincers. The first is a figure like Thiel, willing to place bets on lawsuit after lawsuit until he hits on a winning combination of facts, judge and jury. The second is the public’s animosity toward the press, now fueled by the soon-to-be president. Juries tend to reflect public sentiment and have recently penalized not just an irreverent new-media site like Gawker, but also a newspaper doing investigative work. In September, The News & Observer, which is more than 100 years old, went to trial over a libel claim brought by a former state ballistics agent in North Carolina, who sued regarding two articles from 2010 that included suspicions, by independent firearms experts, that she had falsified evidence to help prosecutors win a murder trial. The agent said that the suspicions were untrue and that she was effectively being accused of a crime. The News & Observer stands by its reporting. But the jury found against the paper and ordered it to pay about$9 million; the amount exceeded the state’s cap on damages and is likely to be lowered to $6 million. The News & Observer plans to appeal.
新出现的情况是：有两股力量正像钳子一样狠狠挤压着新闻界。一股是像蒂尔这样的人物，乐于在一桩又一桩诉讼上下注，直到机缘巧合，事实、法官和陪审团全都站在他这一边。另一股则是公众对媒体的敌意——目前，在候任总统特朗普的煽动下，这敌意变得更浓烈了。陪审团有着反映公众情绪的倾向，它们最近不只处罚了高客网这样一家百无禁忌的新媒体网站，还处罚了一份做调查性报道的报纸。今年9月，拥有超过100年历史的《新闻与观察报》作为一桩诽谤案的被告在北卡罗来纳州出庭，原告则是该州的一名弹道学执法官。她之所以和该报对簿公堂，是因为后者在2010年发表的两篇文章称，一些独立的枪械专家怀疑她伪造了证据，以便帮助一起谋杀案的检方在审判中获胜。这名执法官说，这种怀疑完全是捕风捉影，实际上相当于指控她犯了罪。而陪审团做出了不利于这份报纸的裁定，勒令其赔付约900万美元；不过这个数目超出了该州的损害赔偿金额上限，有可能被降低到600万美元。《新闻与观察报》打算提起上诉。
In the week before the election, Seth Stevenson, a writer for Slate, followed the Trump campaign, which meant sitting in the pen where reporters were confined at rallies. He realized that the pen’s function was to turn the press into a prop. “Behold,” he imagined Trump saying to his fans. “I’ve rounded up a passel of those elites you detest. And I’ve caged them for you!”
大选日之前的一周，Slate网站的作者塞思·史蒂文森(Seth Stevenson)跟访过特朗普的竞选团队，这意味着在集会上坐在一个把记者们圈起来的小围栏里。他意识到这个围栏的功能是让媒体成为道具。“看啊，”在他的想象中，特朗普对粉丝们说道。“我把你们厌恶的一群精英圈了起来。我为了你们把他们圈了起来！”
Trump has continued to treat the press as a prop, or a punching bag, since his election. The weekend after his victory, he railed against The New York Times on Twitter for its “poor and highly inaccurate coverage of the ‘Trump phenomena.’ ” Trump thrives on media attention, but it’s also clear that as the press sinks in the public’s estimation, any tough coverage of him will come to seem less credible. The media also serves as an all-purpose receptacle for blame. Asked on “60 Minutes” why African-Americans, immigrants and Muslims have expressed fear of his presidency, Trump didn’t reckon with any of his own statements. He said, “I think it’s built up by the press.”
当选总统以来，特朗普继续把媒体当成道具，或者攻击目标。胜选后的那个周末，他在Twitter上炮轰《纽约时报》，说它“对‘特朗普现象的’报道既差劲又极其不准确。”特朗普的崛起有赖于媒体的关注，但有一件事也很清楚：随着媒体日益被公众看低，任何关于他的批评性报道都会显得不那么可信。此外，任何问题都可以被怪到媒体头上。特朗普在《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目中被问及为什么非裔美国人、移民和穆斯林害怕他入主白宫的时候，没有提到自己发表过的任何言论。他说，“我认为这是媒体造成的。”
Whatever Trump’s feelings about the media, New York Times v. Sullivan will surely survive his presidency. The case is revered, and in the last several years, the Supreme Court has moved to expand, not contract, the reach of the First Amendment. And states have taken steps, too: To prevent people from using the courts, and the discovery process, to silence or retaliate against their critics, 28 states and the District of Columbia have enacted anti-Slapp laws — the acronym stands for “strategic lawsuit against public participation.” It’s possible, however, that Trump could appoint judges who would find a way around the usual press protections. More immediately, he could ask his Justice Department to prosecute journalists who report leaks from his administration. (President Obama’s Justice Department investigated reporters, but didn’t charge them.) It’s also possible that the press will be a meeker watchdog because of subtler changes that are harder to track. As the head of the executive branch, the president exerts a great deal of control over access to information. Federal agencies have power to shape the state of the union; they also describe it for us by producing reams of facts and statistics, which in turn shape our assessment of our elected leaders. Trump could hire people who cancel funding for government reports or research that doesn’t serve his interests, or who suppress findings the administration doesn’t like.
不论特朗普对媒体有什么样的看法，《纽约时报》诉沙利文案的示范效应在他的任期内肯定会继续存在。该案有着崇高的地位，而且在过去几年里，最高法院一直致力于扩大而非缩减第一修正案的适用范围。另外，一些州也采取了举措：为了防止有人利用法庭和调查程序让批评者闭嘴或者实施打击报复，共有28个州外加哥伦比亚特区实施了反Slapp法——Slapp是“针对公众参与的策略性诉讼”(strategic lawsuit against public participation)的首字母缩写。不过依然存在这种可能性：特朗普可以任命一些会找出办法绕开媒体通常所受的保护的法官。更直接的做法是，如果有记者报道了从特朗普政府泄露出的信息，他可以命令司法部起诉那些记者。（奥巴马政府的司法部调查过记者，但没有起诉过他们。）还有一种可能：因为发生了更加难以察觉的微妙变化，媒体会变成更加温顺的“看门狗”。作为行政部门的首长，总统可以对信息的获取进行大力控制。联邦机构有能力塑造国情咨文的面貌；还可以通过提供大量事实和统计数字，为我们阐释它，而这反过来又会影响我们对民选领导人的评估。特朗普可以启用一些人，取消为不符合其利益的政府报告和研究提供的资金，或者对不讨特朗普政府喜欢的研究结果进行压制。
The new president will be a man who constantly accuses the media of getting things wrong but routinely misrepresents and twists facts himself. “Their single goal will be to burnish their reputation,” Tim O’Brien predicts of the Trump administration. There are signs, too, of new efforts to harness the law to the cause of cowing the press. Trump’s choice for chief adviser, Stephen Bannon, ran the alt-right Breitbart News Network before joining Trump’s campaign last summer. Breitbart announced last week that it was “preparing a multimillion-dollar lawsuit against a major media company” for calling Breitbart a “ ‘white nationalist’ website.” Even if Breitbart is bluffing, the threat will discourage other news outlets from using that term to describe it, and that will in turn help Breitbart and Bannon seem more acceptable to the mainstream. Trump was right about one thing: You don’t have to win every case to advance in the larger legal war.
这位新总统将不断指责媒体把事情搞错了，虽然他自己常常曲解和歪曲事实。“他们将专注于提升自己的声誉，”蒂姆·奥布莱恩对特朗普政府做出了这样的预言。此外，有迹象表明，利用法律恐吓媒体的举措正在推陈出新。特朗普钦点的首席顾问史蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)于去年夏天加入特朗普的竞选团队之前，曾是另类右翼网站布莱巴特新闻网(Breitbart News Network)的运营者。布莱巴特上周宣布，“准备起诉一家”称其为“‘白人民族主义’网站的主流媒体公司，索赔数以百万计的美元”。就算布莱巴特是在虚张声势，上述威胁也会让其他媒体打消用“白人民族主义”来描绘它的念头，这反过来又会让班农和布莱巴特看似在更大程度上得到了主流媒体的接受。特朗普在一件事情上是对的：你不是非得打赢每一桩官司，才能在更广泛的法律战中取得进展。