Last Monday, the sun rose in the east, the black-capped chickadee sang its spring mating song and President Trump attacked American journalists in a tweet. This latest one read: “The Fake Media (not Real Media) has gotten even worse since the election. Every story is badly slanted. We have to hold them to the truth!”
本周一，太阳从东方升起，黑冕山雀在春光里高唱求偶之歌，特朗普总统以一则推文攻击了美国记者。最新的一条是：“自从大选以来，假媒体（不是真媒体）变得更糟了。每个故事都极具倾向性。我们必须督促它们坚持真理！”
The natural order was intact.
自然秩序完好无损。
Yet even as the shock effect wears off (should it ever?), Mr. Trump’s anti-media Twitter posts still serve as reminders of his campaign vows to “open” libel laws, his veiled threats to punish corporate owners of news organizations whose coverage he does not like and his occasional calls for leak investigations.
但即便其震撼效果逐渐消失（真的会消失吗？），特朗普的那些攻击媒体的推文仍然提醒着世人：他在竞选期间曾发誓要“启动”诽谤法；他曾隐晦地威胁说，要惩罚所发报道不受他待见的那些新闻机构所属的公司；他有时还会呼吁就泄密问题展开调查。
They took on a more ominous tone later in the week, as the Justice Department began considering whether to bring a case against WikiLeaks that the Obama administration decided against pursuing, fearing it would start a trend of prosecuting news organizations and criminalizing journalism.
本周晚些时候，随着司法部开始考虑是否对维基解密(WikiLeaks)提起诉讼，所有这些誓言、威胁和呼吁变得更加令人不安。奥巴马政府当初决定不起诉维基解密，因为担心这样做会开启一种起诉新闻机构以及将新闻工作判定为违法行为的趋势。
If the Trump administration decides it has no such qualms — Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in interviews last week that he was “not sure” it did — then the president’s tweets just might wind up being journalism’s great insurance policy.
如果特朗普政府认为自己没有这方面的顾虑——司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)上周接受采访时称，他“不确定”特朗普政府有此顾虑——那么总统的推文最终或许会成为新闻工作者极好的护身符。
His Twitter trail could be a gift to lawyers for the news industry during leak investigations into articles that made the president mad enough to pick up his Android and tap, Tap, TAP!
有些文章会让总统怒恨满腔，抄起安卓手机打字发推。当局就这类文章展开泄密调查期间，他在Twitter上留下的痕迹对新闻界的代理律师来说或许是一份大礼。
It could provide great grist for legal arguments that the investigations are less about prosecuting damaging leaks than they are about punishing journalists.
它们会为这样一种法律论据提供绝佳的支撑：相关调查的目的与其说是就有害的泄密行为提起诉讼，不如说是惩罚新闻记者。
That, at least, is the view of Floyd Abrams, the titan of free speech jurisprudence. He’s best known for successfully defending clients like The New York Times against the Nixon administration’s attempts to stop it from printing the Pentagon Papers, and the Brooklyn Museum of Art against Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani’s move to cut city support because of an exhibition he called sacrilegious.
至少，言论自由法理学方面的权威弗洛伊德·艾布拉姆斯(Floyd Abrams)是这样认为的。艾布拉姆斯以成功为《纽约时报》(The New York Times )和布鲁克林美术馆(Brooklyn Museum of Art)等客户辩护闻名。他帮助前者挫败了企图阻止其发布五角大楼文件的尼克松政府；帮助后者挫败了认为其举办的一场展览带有冒犯意味，于是拒绝再为其拨款的鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)市长。
Now Mr. Abrams is seeking to re-educate the public about the thing that stands between it and, say, becoming Russia: the First Amendment.
现在，艾布拉姆斯正寻求对公众进行关于第一修正案的再教育——让美国和俄国有所不同的，正是第一修正案。
The occasion of my recent visit to his downtown Manhattan office was the publication of his new book, “The Soul of the First Amendment,” which he called “really a story of American exceptionalism.” It argues that the United States’ protections for free speech are the best in the world, at least as of now. (The book comes out on Tuesday.)
最近，我趁他出新书之机到访了他位于曼哈顿下城的办公室。他说这本《第一修正案之魂》(The Soul of the First Amendment)，“其实是关于美国例外主义的故事”。书中称，美国对言论自由的保护是全世界最有力的，至少截至目前是如此。（该书于周二上市。）
Mr. Abrams has a way of angering people all along the political spectrum. For all the points he has scored with liberals over the years, he helped argue the conservative side of the Citizens United case, which allowed corporations and unions to spend more freely in elections.
艾布拉姆斯总是有办法激怒各色政治人物。他多年来做了不少让自由派人士喜欢的事情，但在“联合公民”(Citizens United)案中却为保守派一方辩护，让企业和工会可以更自由地在选举中投入资金。
He is not forlorn about the prospects for free speech under the new administration. But he isn’t sanguine, either, especially after the news about a potential WikiLeaks prosecution. In his book, Mr. Abrams harshly criticizes WikiLeaks as irresponsible, but he said criminal charges against the group would be “a perilous step in terms of First Amendment protection.”
他对新政府治下言论自由的前景并不悲观。不过也不乐观，尤其是在维基解密可能被起诉的消息传出后。艾布拉姆斯在书中严厉批评了维基解密，称其不负责任；但他说，“从第一修正案所提供的保护角度看”，对该机构的刑事指控“将是危险的一步”。
In other words: Be afraid, at least a little afraid.
换句话说：要警惕，至少是要警惕一点点。
With Rachmaninoff’s Piano Concerto No. 3 playing softly in the background, Mr. Abrams, a hearty 80 years old, walked me through what he worries about and what he doesn’t.
艾布拉姆斯今年已经80岁了。以轻柔的拉赫曼尼诺夫第三钢琴协奏曲为背景，这位精神矍铄的老人耐心地向我讲解了他担心什么和不担心什么。
If you want to start out by looking on the bright side, things have been much worse. There were days when censorship was rampant and real reporting could land you in prison, right here in the United States. For instance, as Mr. Abrams’s book notes, it was not all that atypical when, in 1901, a Chicago court sentenced the managing editor and a reporter at The Chicago American to jail for an article that was critical of one of its decisions.
如果你想要先看光明的一面，那么可以告诉你，以前的情况更糟。美国有过审查泛滥成灾、真正的报道可能让你身陷囹圄的日子。例如，就像艾布拉姆斯在书中提到的，芝加哥某法院曾于1901年判处《芝加哥美国人》(The Chicago American)的执行主编和一名记者入狱，就因为该报发的一篇文章批评了它的一项裁决，这在当时并不是多么不同寻常的事情。
Mr. Abrams said that by the second half of the last century, the courts had begun to view “the First Amendment in an expansive and generally highly protective way.” It started with liberal jurists and eventually spread to the conservative jurists as well, which Mr. Abrams called “one of the most remarkable developments of the last 20 years.”
艾布拉姆斯说，到上世纪下半叶，法院已经开始“以一种广泛的、总体上极具保护性的方式”来看待第一修正案。先是自由派法官如此行事，最终保守派也加入了进来，艾布拉姆斯称之为上世纪“最后20年最重大的进展之一”。
That bodes well for news organizations in general, he said.
他说，这对全体新闻机构来说都是好事。
I wondered about Gawker, which a Florida jury hit with a $140 million verdict in an invasion-of-privacy lawsuit last year. Without the financial wherewithal to fight on through the appeals process, its owners went into bankruptcy and sold to Univision.
我想到了高客网(Gawker)，在去年的一桩隐私权官司中，它被佛罗里达州的一个陪审团裁定需要支付1.4亿美元的赔偿金。由于不具备通过上诉进行抗争所需的财力，高客网的母公司宣告破产，并被环球电视网(Univision)收购。
But Mr. Abrams said, “I think Gawker would have won if it had had a chance to go higher.”
但艾布拉姆斯说，“如果高客网有机会上诉，我认为它会赢的。”
Juries, he said, have always shown a willingness to punish journalists — who are down there with lawyers in the public esteem rankings — just as appellate courts are often willing to reverse those juries. Mr. Trump’s anti-press remarks, he acknowledged, certainly do not help with the jury pool.
他说，陪审团总是倾向于惩罚记者——公众对记者和律师的尊重度都不算高——就像上诉法院通常倾向于推翻陪审团的裁定一样。他承认，特朗普的反媒体言论肯定不会对候选陪审员团起什么好作用。
That’s not, however, Mr. Abrams’s chief area of worry.
不过艾布拉姆斯主要担心的并不是这个。
“My concerns on the Trump level are more in two areas,” he said. “One, the potential use of the Espionage Act against journalists reporting on national security-related matters, and the other is leak investigations in which the journalists are called to testify.”
“我对特朗普的担心集中于两点，”他说。“其一，他可能会利用《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)对付报道国家安全相关事宜的记者；其二，在泄密调查中，记者会被要求出来作证。”
The Obama administration set the tone by bringing more cases against leakers than all of the administrations that preceded it combined, often by using the Espionage Act, which it invoked, for instance, in its attempt to obtain emails from the Fox News reporter James Rosen.
奥巴马政府早就定下了基调。被它起诉的泄密者人数，比被此前历届政府起诉的泄密者人数之和还要多，而它起诉的时候，常常会借助《反间谍法》。举个例子，它试图从福克斯新闻(Fox News )记者詹姆斯·罗森(James Rosen)那里获取电子邮件时，就曾启用《反间谍法》。
The headline on an op-ed that the New York Times correspondent James Risen wrote late last year was pointed in its assignment of blame: “If Donald Trump Targets Journalists, Thank Obama.”
《纽约时报》记者詹姆斯·莱森(James Risen)去年撰写的一篇观点文章的标题，一针见血地指出了谁该受到指责：“记者被唐纳德·特朗普当成靶子，托的是奥巴马的福”。
The last administration spent about seven years seeking to compel Mr. Risen to testify in a criminal leak investigation involving classified information in his 2006 book, “State of War: The Secret History of the CIA and the Bush Administration.”
莱森在其2006年的《战争状态：中情局和布什政府秘史》(State of War: The Secret History of the CIA and the Bush Administration)一书中提到了一些机密信息。在大约7年时间里，就相关泄密事件展开刑事调查的上一届政府，一直试图强迫莱森出来作证。
Though it ultimately didn’t require him to testify — most likely for public relations reasons, Mr. Risen figures — it won the right to do so in the Fourth Circuit, where the United States Court of Appeals ruled that the First Amendment didn’t protect reporters from subpoenas to testify about “criminal conduct” that they “personally witnessed or participated in.”
它最终并未要求莱森作证——据莱森估计，极有可能是出于公关方面的原因——但却在美国联邦第四巡回上诉法院(Fourth Circuit)赢得了这样做的权力。该上诉法院裁定，第一修正案并不能保护记者免于受到传唤并就其“亲眼所见或亲身参与”的“犯罪行为”作证。
In other words, Mr. Abrams said, the appellate court ruled that “there’s no protection for journalists at all in front of grand juries.” (The Supreme Court declined to hear the case.)
艾布拉姆斯说，该上诉法院的裁定意味着：“面对大陪审团，记者是不受保护的。”（最高法院拒绝受理该案。）
But that’s where the tweets come in, Mr. Abrams said.
但艾布拉姆斯说，这里就要说说那些推文了。
He pointed to a concurring opinion in a Supreme Court case in 1972, Branzburg v. Hayes, which the press lost. It read, “No harassment of newsmen will be tolerated.”
他提到了最高法院在1972年裁决布兰兹伯格诉海耶斯案(Branzburg v. Hayes)时——媒体一方败诉——出具的协同意见书。那上边写道，“绝不容许骚扰新闻记者”。
That is, “the court will not allow the government to try to punish the press by the use of subpoena,” Mr. Abrams said.
意即，“法院不会容忍政府试图利用传票惩罚媒体之举，”艾布拉姆斯说。
So, if a reporter is swept up in a leak investigation over an article the administration doesn’t like, his or her lawyers would just have to log on to Twitter and search @RealDonaldTrump to find support for an argument that the government was misusing the legal system to punish journalists.
因此，如果一名记者因为发表政府不喜欢的文章而卷入泄密调查，他或她的律师可以登陆Twitter，搜索@RealDonaldTrump，从而为这样一种论点提供支撑：政府正滥用法律制度来惩罚记者。
“‘Enemy of the people’ would be on page one” of any defense, Mr. Abrams said, referring to Mr. Trump’s post describing reporters as such.
“‘人民的敌人’这几个字会出现在”所有辩护书的第一页，艾布拉姆斯说。特朗普在推文中曾给记者冠上这一名号。
Mr. Abrams said he wrote another book at age 80 to help people “understand how fortunate we are that we wound up with a Bill of Rights in the first place.”
艾布拉姆斯说自己在80岁的年纪再次出书，是为了帮助世人“认清，到头来我们能拥有一部《人权法案》(Bill of Rights)是多么的幸运”。
The lesson: The 140 characters of Twitter are no match for the 45 words of the First Amendment of the Constitution. At least not so far.
教训是：推文中的140个字符，不能与第一修正案中的45个单词比肩。至少目前是如此。