WASHINGTON — As the first state dinner of the Trump era approaches, Melania Trump, a first lady of few public words who tends to let visuals do the talking, has repeatedly doled out a short bit of advice to her small East Wing staff: “Do not worry.”
华盛顿——随着特朗普时代的第一次国宴临近，极少公开发表言论、倾向于让视觉形象代替语言的第一夫人梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)一再向她在东翼的少量员工发出简短的忠告：“别担心。”
Her instructions came in the midst of haggling over the guest list (no Democrats from Congress were invited), the selection of the cream-and-gold color scheme and decisions on the flowers, including cherry blossoms once — gasp — chosen by the Obamas.
在发出这些指示之际，她也在讨论宾客名单（国会的民主党人都未获邀）；选择奶油色和金色的配色方案；选择鲜花，包括奥巴马夫妇曾选过的樱花（没想到吧？）。
“Do not worry” was meant as both encouragement and directive. But for aides in this White House, which plans to host President Emmanuel Macron of France for a ceremony of pomp that belies more serious negotiations over the Iran nuclear deal and trade concessions, this may be easier said than done.
“别担心”既是鼓励，也是指示。但对白宫助手们来说，这可能说来容易做来难，白宫届时将以隆重的仪式接待法国总统埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)，其下掩盖着关于伊朗核协议和贸易让步问题的更严肃谈判。
This year, the state dinner guest list was whittled to around 120 people, down from highs of 350 or so people who attended previous bipartisan and media-filled dinners featuring celebrities and pop icons like Beyoncé. (The Washington National Opera will perform this year instead, the White House said.) Typically the leadership of the opposing party is invited to a state dinner, but the Trumps threw out that tradition as they also shunned journalists, who in previous administrations received a handful of invitations — not surprising for a president who derides the “fake news” media.
今年的国宴宾客名单从高峰时期的350人左右削减至约120人，那时的国宴有两党人士和媒体参加，还请了碧昂斯(Beyoncé)等名人和流行偶像（白宫表示，今年将邀请华盛顿国家歌剧院[The Washington National Opera]表演）。通常情况下，反对党的领导会被邀请参加国宴，但特朗普抛弃了这项传统，他也拒绝了记者，在前几届政府时期，有少数几家媒体会收到邀请——对于一个嘲笑媒体搞“假新闻”的总统来说，这并不奇怪。
There is at least one Democrat on the list, according to a White House official: John Bel Edwards, the governor of Louisiana.
据一名白宫官员称，名单上至少有一位民主党人，那就是路易斯安那州州长约翰·贝尔·爱德华兹(John Bel Edwards)。
Much of the planning for Mr. Macron’s arrival on Monday and the Tuesday dinner — components of the most prominent affair a first lady can pull off — has fallen to a small East Wing staff of 10 people. They add up to 14 if you count the four aides in the White House Visitors Office and 15 if you count the first lady. Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, a former Vogue operative known for marshaling the annual Met Gala in New York, and whose official contract with the East Wing ended earlier this year, did not comment when asked about whether she had offered a hand, except to say Mrs. Trump “has got this as always.”
马克龙周一的抵达接待和周二的晚宴是第一夫人所能筹备的最重要的事件，大部分筹划任务落到了白宫东翼的区区十个人身上。如果算上白宫参观者办公室(White House Visitors Office)的四名助手，共有14个人，把第一夫人也加上去的话，就是15个人。以组织一年一度的纽约大都会艺术博物馆慈善舞会(Met Gala)闻名的前《Vogue》运营官斯蒂芬妮·温斯顿·沃克夫(Stephanie Winston Wolkoff)与白宫东翼的官方合同今年早些时候终止了。当被问及她是否提供了帮助时，沃克夫没有置评，只是表示，特朗普夫人“和从前的处理方法一样”。
In interviews, several of the first lady’s media-skittish East Wing aides, including Rickie Niceta, the White House social secretary; Daniel Fisher, the director of the Visitors Office; and Lindsay Reynolds, Mrs. Trump’s chief of staff, said they were bracing for criticism. But Mrs. Trump, who declined to be interviewed, has instructed her staff not to agonize over details and to stay focused, even amid swirling headlines about the Russia investigation and Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who was paid hush money during the 2016 presidential campaign to keep quiet about a sexual encounter she has said she had with President Trump, which he denies.
白宫东翼几位被媒体吓怕了的第一夫人助手在接受采访时表示，他们已准备好接受批评，其中包括白宫社交秘书里姬·尼切塔(Rickie Niceta)、参观者办公室主任丹尼尔·菲舍尔(Daniel Fisher)，以及特朗普夫人的幕僚长琳赛·雷诺兹(Lindsay Reynolds)。特朗普夫人拒绝接受采访，但她指示员工们不要为细节焦虑，保持专注，尽管此时，很多新闻头条都是关于对俄罗斯的调查以及“暴风丹尼尔斯”(Stormy Daniels)——在2016年总统竞选期间，色情片女演员丹尼尔斯收取封口费，不再谈论她声称的与特朗普发生的性关系，特朗普总统对此予以否认。
Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trump’s communications director, was characteristically defensive on behalf of the first lady, saying the small team had learned to weather negative feedback as part of the job. “We’re probably not going to get the credit we deserve,” she said in an interview. “But I know this team is great and she knows this team is great. We have not failed, and she has not failed.”
特朗普夫人的通讯主管斯蒂芬妮·格里沙姆(Stephanie Grisham)经常为第一夫人辩护，称这个小团队已经学会将接受负面反馈作为工作的一部分。“我们很可能得不到应有的赞赏，”她在接受采访时表示，“但我知道这个团队很棒，她知道这个团队很棒。我们没有失败过，她没有失败过。”
The guest list has been so tightly controlled and debated that there was some private concern among aides that Mr. Trump would throw out an invitation to a Mar-a-Lago buddy or two. Some tried to keep close watch over his kibitzing with guests during Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan’s visit to Palm Beach, Fla., last week, according to two people familiar with the planning.
宾客名单经过严格控制和争论，助手们私下里担心，特朗普可能会向马拉阿歌庄园的一两名伙计发出邀请。据两名知情人士称，上周，在日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)访问佛罗里达州棕榈滩期间，有些人试图密切观察特朗普与宾客闲聊时的情形。
In the end, the list was so small that after the must-invite American government officials and the large French delegation, there was room for the president to personally invite only four people, according to a White House official. Keeping with tradition, not all cabinet members are expected to attend, although Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and his wife, Louise Linton, made the cut.
据一名白宫官员称，最终，宾客名单非常小，因此除必须邀请的美国政府官员和庞大的法国代表团外，总统个人只能邀请四个人。按照传统，并不是所有内阁成员都会参加，但财政部长史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)和他的妻子露易丝·林顿·(Louise Linton)入选了。
There will be subtle hints at bipartisanship in the décor: Along with 1,200 Obama-inspired cherry blossom branches to decorate the Cross Hall, Mrs. Trump will use china from the Clinton White House.
现场的装饰布局中会有两党合作的微妙暗示：除受奥巴马启发用1200枝樱花装饰十字厅外，特朗普夫人还会使用来自克林顿时期的白宫瓷器。
The full guest list is expected to be released on Tuesday, right before the start of the dinner. The list traditionally includes a handful of lawmakers, along with the president’s chief of staff and national security adviser, and at least two Supreme Court justices, according to Lea Berman, who was the White House social secretary during the George W. Bush administration.
完整的宾客名单预计将在周二国宴开始前公布。据乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府时期的白宫社交秘书李·伯曼(Lea Berman)说，这个名单传统上包括少数几位议员，以及总统的幕僚长和国家安全顾问，至少还有要两名最高法院的大法官。
“Where it goes from there,” Ms. Berman said, “it’s a way of reading the tea leaves of who’s in with the Trumps. It will be interesting to see how many family members make the cut.”
“从这里，”伯曼说，“可以预测特朗普家族成员的命运。看看有多少家庭成员出席会很有意思。”
Aides within the East and West Wings say planning such a detailed event has been well within Mrs. Trump’s comfort zone, and that she has grown comfortable with her role over time.
东翼和西翼的助手说，筹划这么精细的活动完全在特朗普夫人的舒适区范围内，他们说，随着时间的推移，她已经逐渐适应了自己的角色。
“She is very organized,” Ms. Niceta said, “and she is very exact in how she wants something. There is no wavering.”
“她很有条理，”尼切塔说，“她很清楚自己想要什么，不会犹豫不决。”
Mrs. Trump chose white sweet peas and white lilacs for the tables in the State Dining Room, and it was the first lady’s idea, Ms. Niceta said, to host Mr. Macron and his wife, Brigitte, for a private dinner on Monday evening at Mount Vernon. The estate was home to America’s first president, George Washington, who hosted the Marquis de Lafayette there years after the two fought as allies in the Revolutionary War.
尼切塔说，特朗普夫人选择用白色的香豌豆和白色的丁香来装饰国宴厅的餐桌，并且周一晚上在弗农山庄举办私人晚宴招待马克龙和他的妻子布丽吉特(Brigitte)是第一夫人的主意。弗农山庄是美国第一任总统乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)的家。独立战争结束多年后，华盛顿在弗农山庄招待了战争期间的盟友拉法耶特侯爵(Marquis de Lafayette)。 
The White House has searched for ways to increasingly warm up a relationship between two leaders that is at its heart a pragmatic one: East Wing aides arranged a helicopter tour for Mr. Macron on Monday so that he could get a bird’s-eye view of a city designed by the French-born Pierre Charles L’Enfant on the way to Mount Vernon.
白宫想方设法让两位领导人之间以务实为核心的关系逐渐升温：周一，东翼的助手为马克龙安排了一次直升机之旅，这样马克龙就可以在前往弗农山庄的路上俯瞰一座由出生于法国的皮埃尔·查尔斯·朗方(Pierre Charles L'Enfant)设计的城市了。
Few of Mr. Trump and Mr. Macron’s interactions will be observed by the public during the visit, but there will be one that will indicate if discussions have gone well, according to Ms. Berman.
这次访问期间，公众几乎无法看到特朗普和马克龙之间的互动，但伯曼称，有一种互动可以表明商讨是否顺利。
“The toast will reflect how the day has gone,” Ms. Berman said. “You can usually tell from the toasts if they’re really getting along or not.”
“祝酒辞会反映这一天的情况，”伯曼说。“通常可以通过祝酒辞来判断他们是不是真的相处融洽。”
As for Mrs. Trump’s ability to strengthen diplomatic ties with the Macrons, Ms. Reynolds, Mrs. Trump’s chief of staff and a former aide in the Bush White House, said she has learned over the past year that the first lady does not require as much direction as she initially expected.
至于特朗普夫人是否有能力加强与马克龙夫妇的外交关系，梅拉尼娅的幕僚长、曾在布什政府时期的白宫担任助手的雷诺兹说，过去一年里，她了解到第一夫人需要指导的地方没有她最初以为的多。
When Mrs. Trump took the Japanese prime minister’s wife, Akie Abe, on a tour of the Henry Morrison Flagler Museum in Palm Beach last week, for instance, Ms. Reynolds killed time in the gift shop.
比如上周在棕榈滩，当特朗普夫人带领日本首相的妻子安倍昭惠(Akie Abe)参观亨利·莫里森·弗拉格勒博物馆(Henry Morrison Flagler Museum)时，雷诺兹就在礼品商店里打发时间。 
“I realized very quickly I was getting in her way” with early attempts to direct the first lady on protocol during diplomatic visits, Ms. Reynolds said. “She’s perfectly fine.”
雷诺兹起初试图在外交活动中指导第一夫人的礼节，“我很快意识到，我是在碍她的事，”雷诺兹说。“她做得非常好。”