WASHINGTON — President Trump reshuffled his national security organization on Wednesday, removing his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, from a top policy-making committee and restoring senior military and intelligence officials who had been downgraded when he first came into office.
华盛顿——周三，特朗普总统对他的国家安全机构进行了改组，免除了首席策略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)在一个顶级决策委员会的职务，并恢复了多名在他上台之初被降级的军方和情报界高官的地位。
The shift was orchestrated by Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, who was tapped as Mr. Trump’s national security adviser after the resignation of Michael T. Flynn, who stepped down in February after being caught misleading Vice President Mike Pence and other White House officials about his contacts with Russia’s ambassador.
这一变动是由陆军中将H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)精心安排的。在迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)因为被发现在与俄罗斯大使接触一事上误导副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)和其他白宫官员而于2月下台后，麦克马斯特被任命为特朗普的国家安全顾问。
General McMaster inherited an organizational scheme for the National Security Council that stirred protests because of Mr. Bannon’s role. The original setup made Mr. Bannon, the former chairman of Breitbart News, a member of the principals committee that typically includes cabinet-level officials like the vice president, secretary of state and defense secretary. The original order also made the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence only occasional participants as issues demanded.
因为班农的角色，麦克马斯特接手的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)组织方案引发了抗议。原来的安排是，布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)前董事长班农是其最重要的委员会的成员之一。该委员会通常包括内阁级别的官员，如副总统、国务卿和国防部长。原来的安排还让参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席和国家情报总监只在情况需要时偶尔参与该委员会事务。
Critics said Mr. Bannon’s presence in a national security policy-making structure risked politicizing foreign policy.
批评人士称，班农在国家安全决策结构中任职可能会让外交政策政治化。
A new order issued by Mr. Trump, dated Tuesday and made public on Wednesday, removes Mr. Bannon from the principals committee, restores the chairman of the Joint Chiefs and intelligence director and also adds the energy secretary, C.I.A. director and United Nations ambassador.
特朗普周二发布的一项新命令撤销了班农在该委员会的职务，并恢复了参谋长联席会议主席和国家情报总监的委员职位，此外还让能源部长、中央情报局(CIA)局长和驻联合国大使进入了委员会。该命令标注的日期是周二，但周三才公之于众。
A senior White House official presented the move as a logical evolution, not a setback for Mr. Bannon. He had originally been put on the principals committee to keep an eye on Mr. Flynn and to “de-operationalize” the National Security Council after the Obama administration, this official said on condition of anonymity to discuss internal dynamics. This official said that process had been completed.
白宫的一名高级官员称此举是合理的演变，而非班农遭遇挫折。这名官员称，班农最初被安排进该委员会是为了留意弗林，并让奥巴马政府留下的国家安全委员会“终止行动”。这位要求匿名讨论内部动态的官员称，这个过程已经结束。
Another official close to Mr. Bannon insisted the move was not in any way a sign that the president had lost confidence in him or wanted to reduce his portfolio. And as evidence he will still play a role in national security decisions, the aide said that Mr. Bannon still maintains the highest level of security clearance in the West Wing.
另一名接近班农的官员坚称，此举无论如何都不是总统已对班农失去信心或希望削减他的职责的标志。这名助手称班农在白宫西配楼的安全权限依然是最高的，这证明他依然会在国家安全决策中发挥作用。
But the reorganization seemed a clear victory for General McMaster as he struggles to assert control over national security. In addition to the changing membership of the principals committee, the new order also puts the Homeland Security Council under General McMaster rather than making it a separate entity, as Mr. Trump’s original order had done.
但此次重组似乎是麦克马斯特在争取掌控国家安全事务方面的一场明确胜利。除调整国家安全委员会的成员外，新命令还规定国土安全委员会(Homeland Security Council)接受麦克马斯特的领导，而不是像特朗普原来的命令规定的那样，让它作为一个单独的实体。