Whatever kind of president Donald J. Trump turns out to be, he will surely be no Harry S. Truman. Instead of the sign that Truman kept on his desk declaring that “The Buck Stops Here,” Trump should get one that says, “Don’t Blame Me” — embellished perhaps with the phony coat of arms he plastered on his Scottish golf course.
不管唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)最终成为什么样的总统，反正不会是哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)那样。特朗普不会在办公桌上立一个写着“责无旁贷”(The Buck Stops Here)字样的牌子，而是会放一个写着“不要怪我”的牌子——或许还会用他贴在自己位于苏格兰的高尔夫球场上捏造出来的盾徽进行装饰。
A month after he won the presidential election, Trump is happy to take credit for things he likes — like the recent rebound in the stock market or the jobs that may be saved at that infamous Carrier plant thanks to millions of dollars the taxpayers of Indiana are going to pay.
赢得总统选举一个月后，特朗普乐于把他喜欢的一些事情的功劳揽到自己身上，比如最近的股市反弹，或者那家声名狼藉的开利(Carrier)工厂有可能保留下来的工作岗位。后者其实得归功于印第安纳州的纳税人将要支付的数以百万美元计的资金。
But he’s also showing the world that he has no intention of taking responsibility for the hard stuff. Don’t blame Trump, he said on Wednesday, for the deep divisions in American society.
但他也在向世界表明，他无意承担起解决困难问题的责任。他在周三表示，不要把美国社会的深刻分歧归罪于特朗普。
“I’m not president yet, so I didn’t do anything to divide,” Trump said in a phone call to the “Today” show. (He called in to gloat about being named TIME Magazine’s person of the year, a distinction also given to the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Yuri Andropov, Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin — twice.)
“我还没当上总统，所以没做什么导致分裂的事，”特朗普在致电《今日秀》(Today)节目时表示。（他打进电话是为了炫耀自己获选《时代》杂志[TIME Magazine]年度风云人物，这一荣誉也曾被授予阿亚图拉鲁霍拉·霍梅尼[Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini]、尤里·安德罗波夫[Yuri Andropov]、阿道夫·希特勒[Adolf Hitler]和约瑟夫·斯大林[Joseph Stalin]，后者还是两次。）
In other words, it’s not Donald Trump’s fault that racists, sexists, homophobes and xenophobes found common cause with his campaign, or that the darkest forces of the American right felt emboldened to give him the Nazi salute at a recent Washington gathering.
换句话讲，种族主义者、性别歧视者、憎恶同性恋者和仇外者与他的竞选活动达成共识，不是唐纳德·特朗普的错。美国右翼最黑暗的力量敢于在最近一次于华盛顿举行的集会上向他致纳粹礼，也不是特朗普的错。
On Dec. 1, Trump smiled happily as his followers chanted, “Lock her up!” He did not attempt to quiet them, perhaps by saying that he had told The New York Times one day earlier that he did not want to prosecute Hillary Clinton. After all, Trump is not responsible for what his followers say.
12月1日，在他的支持者高喊着“把她关起来！”时，特朗普愉快地微笑着。他没有试图让他们安静下来，其实他或许可以告诉他们，他已经在前一天告诉《纽约时报》自己不想起诉希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。毕竟，特朗普无需为他的支持者说的话承担责任。
The obstinate refusal to take personal responsibility permeates the Trump organization.
一味拒绝承担个人责任的态度，也渗透到了特朗普组织内部。
Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, the new national security adviser, is not being held to account for spreading vile lies about Clinton on social media, even after those lies were connected to an armed invasion of a pizza place in Washington, D.C. Trump settled for firing Flynn’s son from his transition team for his conspiracy-minded tweets.
刚被任命为国家安全顾问的迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)中将没有被追究在社交媒体上传播有关克林顿的恶劣谎言的责任，哪怕这些谎言被认为与华盛顿特区一家披萨店遭武装入侵有关。特朗普仅仅将弗林的儿子从他的交接团队里开除了事，后者曾在Twitter上发布充满阴谋论思维的帖子。
Stephen Bannon, the newly appointed chief strategist, is not be held responsible, we are told, for all the racist and sexist garbage he published on Breitbart News. And Senator Jeff Sessions, whom Trump chose as attorney general, should not be accountable for his racist comments.
我们还得知，刚刚被任命为白宫首席策略师的史蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)也没有因为他在布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)网站上发布具有种族主义和性别歧视意味的垃圾文字被问责。还有被特朗普选中担任司法部长的杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)也不该为自己的种族主义言论负责。
At an event sponsored by Harvard’s Institute of Politics on Dec. 1, Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s third campaign manager, sputtered at the very idea that she might be blamed for the racism and xenophobia that Trump deliberately stoked to build his candidacy.
在哈佛政治学研究所(Harvard’s Institute of Politics)于12月1日举办的一场活动上，特朗普的第三任竞选经理凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)气急败坏地表示反对以下观点：特朗普为获得候选人资格而有意激起的种族主义和仇外情绪，可能得由她来背黑锅。
“Do you think I ran a campaign where white supremacists had a platform?” Conway said to Jennifer Palmieri, a top Clinton aide. “You’re going to look me in the face and tell me that?”
“你觉得我组织了一场为白人种族至上论者提供平台的竞选活动吗？”康维对克林顿的高级助手珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)讲道。“你是要当着我的面跟我讲这个吗？”
It is a fact that the Trump campaign gave a platform to white supremacists. The only question is whether the Trump presidency will do the same.
特朗普的竞选活动为白人种族至上论者提供了平台，这是事实。唯一的问题是，特朗普在其总统任期内是不是还会这么做。
Many Americans who voted for Trump may not consider themselves racist, but they cast a ballot for a candidate who espoused racism and xenophobia and told lie after lie without remorse. They have to take responsibility for their decision, and so do the people who choose to work for Trump.
许多投票给特朗普的美国人或许不认为自己是种族主义者，但他们投票给了一名信奉种族主义和仇外的总统候选人，他还一个接一个地撒谎，且没有丝毫愧意。他们必须为自己的决定负责，选择为特朗普效力的人也是一样。
It has been sickening to see Mitt Romney, who achieved some respect when he denounced Trump during the campaign, bending his knee in hope of being named secretary of state. And what on earth was Al Gore thinking when he went to Trump Tower to talk about global warming? He looked like a fool.
看到米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)为获得国务卿的任命而卑躬屈膝，真令人作呕。当他在竞选期间对特朗普进行谴责时，曾赢得人们的一些尊敬。还有阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)跑到特朗普大厦去谈论全球变暖问题，到底存的哪门子心思？他看起来就像个傻瓜。
To be fair, Trump does not evade all responsibility. He’s willing to shoulder the heavy burden of flaunting his riches. “Others try to hide their wealth,” he told TIME, but he does not because “aspiration’s a very important word.”
公平地讲，特朗普并没有逃避所有的责任。他愿意肩负起炫耀自己财富的重担。“其他人都竭力掩盖自己的财富，”他对《时代》周刊讲道，但他不会这么做，因为“抱负是一个非常重要的词汇”。
“I think people aspire to do things,” he said. “And they aspire to watch people. I don’t think they want to see the president carrying his luggage out of Air Force One. And that’s pretty much the way it is.”
“我觉得人们都志存高远，”他说。“他们通过观看别人，产生抱负。我不认为他们会愿意看到总统提着行李箱走出空军一号。而现在的情况差不多就是这样。”