President Trump’s childhood home in Queens has been sold, in a transaction facilitated by a lawyer who specializes in shepherding real estate investments made by overseas Chinese buyers. The identity of the purchaser, who paid more than $2 million for the modest Tudor-style home, was obscured behind a recently created limited liability corporation, Trump Birth House. The sale closed on March 23.
特朗普总统在皇后区的童年故居已被出售，推动这次交易的是一位专门引导海外华人买家投资房地产的律师。买家为这栋朴实的都铎风格房屋支付了逾200万美元，其身份被掩盖在一家成立不久，名为“特朗普出生屋”( Trump Birth House)的有限责任公司之后。这一销售于3月23日达成。
In an email, Michael X. Tang, a lawyer registered as the representative for the corporation, said he was not permitted to disclose any information regarding the transaction. The $2.14 million sale price is more than double the average value of comparable homes in the area, according to the property site Trulia.
注册为该公司代表的迈克尔·X·唐（Michael X. Tang，音）律师在电子邮件中表示，他无权披露有关这起交易的任何信息。根据物业网站Trulia的资料，这栋房产214万美元的售价是该地区同类房屋均价的两倍以上。
“The value is intangible — it’s not about the house or the bricks or the lot size,” said Misha Haghani, principal of Paramount Realty USA, which represented the property in an auction shortly before Mr. Trump was sworn in as president. “The value lies with the association with the current president of the U.S. of A.”
“价值是无形的——不仅仅是是关于房子、砖块或占地大小，” 美国派拉蒙地产公司(Paramount Realty USA)的负责人米沙·哈加尼(Misha Haghani)表示，该公司在特朗普宣誓就职前不久的一场拍卖中代表该处物业。“价值在于它同美利坚现任总统的联系。”
It is not known what will become of the property. Mr. Haghani said that while plans for a presidential library and a museum had been floated to him by representatives for the buyer, nothing had been made firm.
这处地产的未来尚不分明。哈加尼说，虽然这名买家的代表已经向他透露了有关建立一座总统图书馆和一座博物馆的计划，但任何事都没有确定下来。
The pale yellow house was built in 1940 by Fred C. Trump, Mr. Trump’s father, a real estate developer. The president lived there from his birth to age 4, when the family moved to a larger home just behind the Tudor. The first home was sold last week by Michael Davis, a real estate prospector who bought it in 2016 for just under $1.4 million, with the intention of flipping the property.
这栋淡黄色的房子是由特朗普的父亲，房地产开发商弗雷德·C·特朗普(Fred C. Trump)于1940年建造的。总统从出生到四岁的时候都居住在那里，其后一家人搬到这栋都铎式建筑后面的另一个更大的家中，第一处房产上周由房地产投资者迈克尔·戴维斯(Michael Davis)出售，他于2016年以低于140万美元的价格买下了它，意在将其快速转手。
Last month a penthouse in Mr. Trump’s Park Avenue building was purchased for $15.8 million by Xiao Yan Chen, known as Angela, the founder of Global Alliance.
上个月，特朗普在公园大道的大厦内的一所顶层豪华公寓以1580万美元被全球联盟(Global Alliance)的创始人陈晓燕（又名Angela）买下。
An association with the name Trump has had differing effects on properties around the world: On apartment buildings in Mumbai, India, it is a sought-after asset; on a Washington hotel, it poses a potential ethical quagmire; and on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, tenants of a Trump-branded complex so loathed the connection that last year the name came down.
在世界各地，与特朗普这个名字的联系对物业产生的影响各不相同：在印度孟买，特朗普品牌的公寓楼是备受追捧的资产；在华盛顿，特朗普品牌的酒店构成了潜在的伦理困境；而在曼哈顿上西区，特朗普公寓的租户对于这种联系表示极端厌恶，以至于在去年，他的名字从楼上被摘掉了。
In talk show appearances shortly before the auction, Mr. Trump spoke of possibly buying the property himself. Mr. Haghani said that while he did not know the true identity of the buyer, he did not believe that it was the president.
在这场拍卖前不久的一次谈话节目中，特朗普谈到自己可能会购买那处房产。哈加尼说，虽然他不知道买方的真实身份，但他并不认为那是总统本人。