WASHINGTON — President Trump insisted on Thursday that there was no collusion between his presidential campaign and Russian officials, though he added, “I can only speak for myself.”
华盛顿——周四，特朗普总统坚称他的竞选团队没有和俄罗斯官员勾结，尽管他也表示，“我只能代表自己这么讲。”
Mr. Trump, speaking in the East Room of the White House, said he respected the appointment of a special counsel to investigate ties with Russia.
特朗普在白宫东翼讲话时表示，他尊重司法部任命一位特别检察官调查与俄罗斯关系的决定。
“The entire thing has been a witch hunt,” Mr. Trump said. “There’s no collusion between, certainly, myself and my campaign — but I can only speak for myself — and the Russians — zero.”
“这整件事就是一种政治迫害，”特朗普说。“我、我的竞选团队和俄罗斯人之间肯定没什么勾结，一点也没有——不过我只能代表自己这么讲。”
The president said the questions surrounding his campaign and Russia were divisive.
这位总统表示，围绕他的竞选团队与俄罗斯的质疑会造成分裂。
“I think it divides the country,” Mr. Trump said. “I think we have a very divided country because of that and many other things.”
“我认为它会让这个国家分化，”特朗普说。“我觉得我们的国家现在之所以分歧这么大，就是这件事，及其他许多事情造成的。”
The president then pivoted to listing what he called the achievements of his administration, from creating jobs to restoring America’s standing in the world, and noted he was embarking Friday on the trip to the Middle East.
接着，总统将话题转移，开始列举他认为的自己执政期间的成就，包括创造工作机会，以及恢复美国在全球的地位，并指出他周五将踏上中东之旅。
Mr. Trump reiterated his vow to stamp out the drug trade and to build a wall on the border with Mexico. Standing next to President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia in the East Room, Mr. Trump noted that coca leaf production in his country was at record levels, despite Colombia’s efforts to crack down on drug trafficking.
特朗普重申了他的承诺，即杜绝毒品交易，以及在美国与墨西哥的边境修一堵墙。特朗普在白宫东厅站在哥伦比亚总统胡安·曼努埃尔·桑托斯(Juan Manuel Santos)身旁指出，尽管哥伦比亚努力打击毒品走私，但该国的古柯叶产量还是处在创纪录的水平。
Mr. Santos looked for areas of common ground, noting the cooperation between Colombia and the United States in fighting drugs. “We believe in the same principles of freedom, democracy and the rule of law,” he said.
桑托斯则努力寻找能达成共识的领域，他提到了哥伦比亚与美国在打击毒品方面的合作。“我们信奉同样的原则，那就是自由、民主和法治，”他说。
Mr. Trump also had lashed out earlier on Thursday, saying he was the target of an unprecedented witch hunt, a day after the Justice Department appointed a special counsel to investigate ties between his presidential campaign and Russian officials.
周四早些时候，特朗普也发出了猛烈的抨击，称自己是一场史无前例的政治迫害的目标。前一天，司法部任命了一位特别检察官负责调查他的竞选团队与俄罗斯官员之间的关系。
In a pair of early morning tweets, Mr. Trump cited, without evidence, what he called the “illegal acts” committed by the administration of his predecessor, Barack Obama, and the campaign of his former opponent, Hillary Clinton — and said they never led to the appointment of a special counsel.
特朗普在周四清晨接连发了两条推文，提到他的前任贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的政府和他之前的竞选对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的“非法行径”（这只是他的说法，并无证据），称司法部就从来不曾任命特别检察官对他们进行调查。
“With all of the illegal acts that took place in the Clinton campaign & Obama Administration, there was never a special councel appointed!” Mr. Trump wrote, initially misspelling counsel.
“克林顿竞选团队和奥巴马政府做了那么多非法的事，却不见任命过一个特别检察官！”特朗普写道，一开始还拼错了检察官这个单词。
Moments later, Mr. Trump added, “This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history!”
过了一会，特朗普接着写道，“这是美国历史上对一名政治人物实施的最严重的政治迫害！”
The tweets, shortly before 8 a.m., were a stark contrast to his muted reaction to the announcement on Wednesday evening that Robert S. Mueller III, a former F.B.I. director, had been named to investigate ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials.
在接近上午8点前发布的这两条推文，与周三晚上司法部宣布任命前联邦调查局(FBI)局长罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)调查特朗普竞选团队与俄罗斯官员之间的关系时特朗普做出的温和反应，形成了鲜明的对比。
In a statement released by the White House, the president said: “As I have stated many times, a thorough investigation will confirm what we already know — there was no collusion between my campaign and any foreign entity. I look forward to this matter concluding quickly.”
这位总统当时在白宫发布的一份声明中表示，“就像我曾多次讲过的，一项彻底的调查将能确认我们已经知道的情况，即我的竞选团队没有与外国实体勾结。我期待此事能很快了结。”
How Mr. Trump should respond to the appointment was the subject of brief, but lively debate in the Oval Office, several senior officials said, with most of the president’s aides counseling a conciliatory tone. Mr. Trump often takes his most combative stances early in the morning on Twitter.
几名高层官员表示，当晚针对特朗普应该对这项任命做出什么反应，椭圆办公室内进行了一场简短而激烈的争论，大多数助手都建议他采取一种谋求好感的语调。但特朗普在早上发推时往往斗志最为旺盛。
The president is correct in his observation about the rarity of a special counsel, though his references to the Clinton campaign and the Obama administration may not bolster his case. There were multiple congressional investigations of the attacks in Benghazi, Libya, and the role played by Mrs. Clinton, then the secretary of state, and Mr. Obama.
任命特别检察官的情况十分少见，在这一点上总统的观察是正确的，但他有关克林顿竞选团队与奥巴马政府的说法却无法支持他的观点。国会曾就利比亚班加西遇袭事件，以及奥巴马和时任国务卿的克林顿在其中的责任进行过好几次调查。
It is not the first time Mr. Trump has likened the questions about his campaign and Russia to a witch hunt. In January, while still president-elect, he said in an interview with The New York Times that the persistent focus on Russia’s hacking of the American presidential campaign was a witch hunt carried out by people bitter at his victory over Mrs. Clinton.
这不是特朗普第一次将针对他的竞选团队与俄罗斯的质疑比作政治迫害。今年1月，当他还是候任总统时，特朗普就曾在接受《纽约时报》采访时表示，对俄罗斯在美国大选期间的黑客行动的持续关注是一种政治迫害，是由对他战胜克林顿心怀怨恨的人发起的。
Mr. Trump’s sense of grievance over the Russia investigations had been deepening even before the naming of a special counsel. During a commencement address at the United States Coast Guard Academy on Wednesday, the president abruptly diverted from his uplifting theme to complain that “no politician in history” had been treated “more unfairly” than him.
早在司法部任命这位特别检察官之前，特朗普对俄罗斯调查的不满情绪就一直在加深。周三在美国海岸警卫队学院( United States Coast Guard Academy )毕业典礼上发表讲话时，特朗普突然偏离了令人振奋的主题，开始抱怨“历史上没有哪个政治人物”遭遇过比他“更不公正”的待遇。
“You will find that things are not always fair,” he told the graduates. “Look at the way I’ve been treated lately, especially by the media. No politician in history — and I say this with great surety — has been treated worse or more unfairly.”
“你会发现事情并不总是公平的，”他对那些毕业生讲道。“看看我最近的遭遇，尤其是来自媒体的对待。我敢保证，历史上没有哪个政治人物受过比这更恶劣、更不公正的待遇。”