President-elect Donald J. Trump made an important concession about Russia. He criticized American intelligence officials. He sparred with reporters and denounced “fake news.”
候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普在俄罗斯问题上做出了重大让步。他批评美国情报官员。他与记者争辩，并对“假消息”予以了谴责。
And that was all before he arrived at the ostensible reason for holding his first formal news conference since July: his plans to extricate himself from the operations of his vast business holdings.
这些都发生在他自7月以来举行的首次正式新闻发布会上原定的主题——阐述他脱离自己庞大的企业资产运作的计划开始之前。
Here are the highlights from the whirling, hourlong news conference in Trump Tower.
这场旋风般的新闻发布会在特朗普大厦举行，历时1小时，亮点如下。
■ Mr. Trump said that after his briefing on Friday with American intelligence officials, he now thought Russia was behind the effort to hack his election opponents. “As far as hacking, I think it was Russia,” Mr. Trump said.
■ 特朗普说，在上周五听取美国情报官员的情况通报后，他现在认为俄罗斯对他的竞选对手进行了攻击。“至于黑客入侵，我认为这是俄罗斯干的，”特朗普说。
■ Later in the news conference, Mr. Trump wavered slightly when pressed. “But you know what, it could have been others also,” he said when asked why he had been so critical of American intelligence officials.
■ 在新闻发布会的晚些时候，特朗普在被追问后又有些反复。在被问到为什么对美国情报官员意见这么大的时候，他回答：“但你知道吗，也有可能是其他人干的。”
■ He harshly criticized the publication of unverified reports that claimed Russia has salacious information about his behavior and finances. “I think it was disgraceful, disgraceful that the intelligence agencies let any information that turned out to be so false and fake to get out,” he said. Explaining his Twitter post comparing the United States to Nazi Germany, he said of the leaks: “That’s something that Nazi Germany would have done and did do.” Mr. Trump added that BuzzFeed is “a failing pile of garbage” that would suffer the consequences for publishing the uncorroborated report.
■ 他严厉批评了一份未经证实的报告的公开——该报告称俄罗斯掌握了有关他的行为和财务状况的涉黄信息。“我认为，情报机构让任何虚假错误的信息泄露出去是很丢脸的事情，”他说。特朗普之前在Twitter帖子中把美国和纳粹德国相提并论，对此他解释说，泄漏这些信息是“纳粹德国会做并且的确做过的事情”。特朗普还说BuzzFeed是“一堆失败的垃圾”，发布未经证实的报告就要承受后果。
■ Mr. Trump said he was untroubled by the intelligence reports that have been made public, which said Russia preferred him over Hillary Clinton and that President Vladimir V. Putin ordered the election meddling to benefit him. “If Putin likes Donald Trump, guess what, folks: That is called an asset, not a liability,” he said. He added that a strong relationship could allow the two nations to work together on difficult international issues.
■ 特朗普说，情报报告被公开不会给他带来困扰，这份报告说俄罗斯更喜欢他而不是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，普京下令干预选举，让他从中受益。“如果普京喜欢唐纳德·特朗普，你们猜猜会怎么样：这叫资产，不叫负债，”他说。稳固的俄美关系可以让两国在困难的国际问题上共同努力。
■ When asked whether he had a message for Mr. Putin, Mr. Trump said: “He shouldn’t be doing it. He won’t be doing it. Russia will have much greater respect for our country when I am leading it.” He added: “There’s no reset button. We’re either going to get along or we’re not.” But he did not address a question about whether he or anyone on his campaign staff had had contact with Russia during the campaign.
■ 当被问及他是否想对普京说什么时，特朗普说：“他不应该这么做。他不会这样做。我领导美国的时候，俄罗斯会更加尊重我们的国家。”他又补充：“没有重置按钮。我们要么合得来，要么合不来。”但是当有人问他或他的竞选工作人员是否在竞选期间与俄罗斯有过接触时，他没有作答。
■ Mr. Trump swatted away allegations included in the uncorroborated reports. He said he instructs aides any time he goes abroad to ensure that there are no cameras spying on him. He also added, apparently referring to a detail in the report about supposed sex videos with prostitutes, “I’m also very much of a germophobe, believe me.”
■ 特朗普否认了那份未经证实的报告中的指控。他说，他在出国的时候总是会指示助手检查，以防有摄像头窥探。他还说“我有洁癖，相信我”，显然指的是报告中提到的招妓性视频的一个细节。
■ Addressing the topic the news conference was supposed to cover, Mr. Trump said he would not divest from his vast business holdings as he takes office. Instead, the president-elect will turn over the operations and control of those holdings to a trust controlled by his eldest sons, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr.
■ 在谈到新闻发布会原定的主题时，特朗普说，他在担任总统期间不会放弃自己庞大的企业资产，而是会把这些资产的经营和控制权转交给两个大儿子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)和小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)控制的信托基金。
■ Mr. Trump said that he had considered letting the Affordable Care Act implode on its own and letting Democrats take the political hit he said would follow. But he said he had decided on a more forthright strategy: repeal and replace “almost simultaneously.” Mr. Trump was short on details but clearer in his intention to try to keep Democrats responsible. “We don’t want to own it politically,” he said.
■ 特朗普说，他之前考虑让《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)自行崩溃，让民主党人承受他所说的随之而来的政治打击。但他说，他已经决定采取一个更直接的战略：“几乎同时”废除和替换它。特朗普没有谈到细节，但是更加清楚地表明了试图让民主党负责的意图。“我们不想在政治上对它负责，”他说。
■ The president-elect said he had asked David J. Shulkin, a current under secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs, to lead the agency. Mr. Trump said his team had interviewed “at least 100 people” in the search for a secretary.
■ 特朗普表示，他已经请退伍军人事务部(Department of Veterans Affairs)现任副部长戴维·J·舒尔金(David J. Shulkin)领导该机构。特朗普说，为了物色部长，他的团队已经面试过“至少100人”。
■ Near the end of the news conference, Mr. Trump got into a shouting match with Jim Acosta of CNN, who tried to press the president-elect into taking a question. “Since you were attacking our news organization, can you give us a chance?” Mr. Acosta asked. To which Mr. Trump replied: “Your organization’s terrible,” and “don’t be rude,” before dismissing the request once and for all: “You are fake news.” (CNN was the first to report that Mr. Trump and President Obama had been briefed by intelligence officials on the uncorroborated documents, but the network did not publish them.)
■ 在新闻发布会快结束时，特朗普与CNN的吉姆·阿科斯塔(Jim Acosta)发生争吵，阿科斯塔试图迫使特朗普回答问题。“你攻击我们的新闻机构，你能给我们一个机会吗？”阿科斯塔问。特朗普回答说：“CNN让人讨厌”和“不要这么粗鲁”，然后斩钉截铁地驳回了请求：“你们就是假新闻。”（CNN率先报道了特朗普和奥巴马总统听取了情报官员对未经证实的文件的汇报，但CNN并没有公开文件内容。）