UNITED NATIONS — President Donald Trump brought a characteristically confrontational message to the United Nations on Tuesday as he vowed to “totally destroy North Korea” if it threatened the United States or its allies and denounced the nuclear agreement with Iran as “an embarrassment” that he may abandon.
联合国——周二，特朗普总统将具有特色的对抗性信息带给联合国，他扬言，如果朝鲜威胁到美国或其盟国，就要“彻底摧毁朝鲜”，他还批评与伊朗之间的核协议很“尴尬”，他可能会放弃它。
In his first address to the U.N. General Assembly, Trump framed the conflicts with “rogue regimes” like North Korea, Iran and Venezuela as a test of the international system. With typically bombastic flourishes like vowing to crush “loser terrorists” and labeling North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, “Rocket Man,” Trump at times dispensed with the restrained rhetoric many American presidents use at the United Nations.
这是特朗普对联合国大会的首次发言，他把和朝鲜、伊朗、委内瑞拉等“流氓政权”之间的冲突形容为对国际体系的考验。特朗普摒弃了许多美国总统在联合国使用的那种克制性措辞，而使用了其独特的夸大词藻，比如誓言要打垮“失败的恐怖分子”，说朝鲜领导者金正恩是“火箭人”。
“If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph,” he said as the audience of presidents, prime ministers, monarchs and diplomats remained largely stone-faced. “When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength.” He asserted that some parts of the world “are going to hell.”
“如果正义的多数不去对抗邪恶的少数，邪恶就会得胜，”他说。台下的各国总统、总理、君主和外交官基本面无表情。“当正派的公众和国家成为历史的旁观者时，毁灭势力就会集聚力量和实力。”他声称，世界上有些地方“会下地狱”。
He also sought to explain his America First policy to an audience concerned about what it means for U.S. leadership in the world. From the dais of an organization meant to bring nations together, Trump argued that nationalism can be the foundation for strong nations to join common causes.
听众关切的一个问题是，“美国优先”政策对于美国在全球的领导力意味着什么，特朗普也试图向听众解释这个政策。在这样一个意为团结诸国的机构的讲台上，他表示，民族主义可以成为强国参与共同事业的基础。
Trump singled out North Korea for his harshest words, broadening his indictment of the Pyongyang government beyond just its pursuit of nuclear weapons to its treatment of its own people and captured foreigners like the American college student who died shortly after being released and sent back to the United States.
特朗普在谈到朝鲜时使用了最严厉的措辞，而且对平壤政府的谴责也扩大到了研发核武器之外，他指责朝鲜残酷对待本国人，抓捕外国人，比如那名获得释放送回美国后不久就死去的美国大学生。
“No nation on earth has an interest in seeing this band of criminals arm itself with nuclear weapons and missiles,” Trump said. “The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea. Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.”
“没有哪个国家有兴趣看到这群罪犯用核武器和导弹武装自己。”特朗普说，“美国有很大的实力和耐心，但是如果被迫自卫或是保护盟国，我们就别无选择了，只能彻底摧毁朝鲜。火箭人正在为自己和他的政权执行自杀任务。”
He went on to assail the Iran agreement, which was negotiated by President Barack Obama and leaders of five other powers and ratified by the U.N. Security Council to curb Tehran’s nuclear program for a decade in exchange for lifting international sanctions. Under U.S. law, Trump has until Oct. 15 to certify whether Iran is complying with the agreement, which he has done twice so far since taking office. But he has made clear that he would prefer not to do so again, which could result in the unraveling of the accord.
他还继续猛批伊朗协议，那是之前奥巴马总统和五个其他国家的领导人通过谈判达成、获得联合国安理会批准的一个协议，目的是遏制德黑兰核计划10年时间，以换取放宽对伊朗的国际制裁。根据美国法律，特朗普到10月15日才需要证实伊朗是否遵守了协议，但他自上任以来已经这么做了两次。不过他明确表示不愿再这样做，那可能会导致协议撕毁。
“The Iran deal was one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into,” Trump told the U.N. audience. “Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I don’t think you’ve heard the last of it, believe me.”
“伊朗协议是美国做过的最糟糕、最有失公允的交易之一。”特朗普在联合国对听众们说：“坦白说，这个协议对美国来说很尴尬，我觉得你们以前没见过这样的协议，相信我。”
The tough words cheered the delegation from Israel, whose prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and advisers applauded. In his own speech later, he said Trump had “rightly called the nuclear deal with Iran an embarrassment” and pointed to North Korea as an example.
这种严厉的言论让以色列代表团很高兴，以色列总理本杰明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)以及顾问们鼓了掌。他后来在发言中说，特朗普“把伊朗核协议形容为‘尴尬’很正确”，而且还用朝鲜来举了例子。
“In the last few months, we’ve all seen how dangerous even a few nuclear weapons can be in the hands of a small rogue regime,” Netanyahu said. “Now imagine the danger of hundreds of nuclear weapons in the reins of a vast Iranian empire, with the missiles to deliver them anywhere on Earth.”
“在过去几个月里，我们都看到了一个小型流氓政权掌握哪怕少量的核武器也会有多危险，”内塔尼亚胡说。“现在想象一下，一个领土辽阔的伊朗帝国拥有数以百计的核武器，拥有可以将其发射到地球上任何地方的导弹，那又有多危险。”
Others called Trump’s speech over-the-top. “If Trump was determined to demonstrate to the world that he is unhinged and an imminent danger to world peace, he has succeeded with this speech, and will only make it harder for him to win over the world to his self-destructive goals,” said Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council, a Washington-based group that is critical of the Tehran government but advocates more engagement.
一些人则说特朗普的演讲言过其实了。“如果特朗普决心向世界表明他神经错乱了，对世界和平是个迫在眉睫的威胁，那他的这个演讲算是成功了，这只会让他更难以争取世界赞同他那那些个自我毁灭的目标。”伊朗裔美国人全国理事会(National Iranian American Council)会长特里塔·帕尔西(Trita Parsi)说。这个团体位于华盛顿，对德黑兰政府持批评态度，但主张开展更多的互动。
Neither Hassan Rouhani, Iran’s president, nor Mohammad Javad Zarif, its foreign minister, were in the hall for Trump’s speech. North Korea’s ambassador left his seat before the president started speaking. The rest of the audience gave Trump polite but unenthusiastic applause.
特朗普演讲的时候，伊朗总统总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)和外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)不在大厅。朝鲜大使在他发言之前就离开了座位。其他听众给特朗普的掌声礼貌却不热情。
President Emmanuel Macron of France, who has a friendly relationship with Trump, took sharp exception to the most combative points in the American leader’s speech. In his General Assembly address, Macron called the Iran agreement “solid, robust and verifiable,” and said renouncing it would be a “grave error.”
对于特朗普发言中最有争议的一点，与其关系友好的法国总统埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)表现了截然不同的态度。马克龙在他的联大发言中称伊朗协议“坚实、可靠，可以验证”，并表示放弃它是一个“重大错误”。
While he shared Trump’s assertion that North Korea’s nuclear belligerence was dangerous and unacceptable, Macron said multilateral diplomatic pressure was the best solution. “France rejects escalation and will not close any door to dialogue,” he said.
虽然他和特朗普都认为朝鲜的核计划很危险，不可接受，但马克龙表示，多边外交压力是最好的解决办法。“法国反对矛盾升级，不会关上对话的大门，”他说。
The French president also confronted a big issue Trump conspicuously omitted: climate change. “The planet will not negotiate with us,” Macron said, referring to the Paris climate accord that Trump has renounced.
法国总统还提到了特朗普明显忽略的一个重大问题：气候变化。“这个星球不会和我们谈判，”马克龙说道，他指的是特朗普放弃的巴黎气候协议。
He added that he hoped the United States might yet rejoin the accord. “I fully respect the decision of the United States, but the door will always be open,” he said.
他说希望美国能重新加入这个协议。“我完全尊重美国的决定，但大门永远是敞开的，”他说。
The U.N. secretary-general, António Guterres, likewise implicitly rebuffed Trump on climate change. “We know enough today to act,” he said as he opened the annual U.N. General Assembly session. “The science is unassailable.”
联合国秘书长安东尼奥·古特雷斯(António Guterres)也含蓄地批评了特朗普对气候变化的态度。“如今我们清楚知道需要开展行动。”他在联合国大会开幕式上说，“科学是不容置疑的。”
Guterres criticized what he called “closed doors and open hostility” in the face of vast refugee crises and called on countries to treat those crossing borders with “simple decency and human compassion.”
在提到难民大危机时，古特雷斯批评了“封闭大门，公开敌对”态度，并呼吁各国以“基本的道德和人类的同情心”对待入境的难民。