The traditional goal of a presidential nominee is to win the presidency and then serve as president.
总统候选人通常是以赢得大选并担任总统为目标。
Donald J. Trump is not a traditional candidate for president.
而唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)并非通常意义上的总统候选人。
Presented in a recent interview with a scenario, floating around the political ether, in which the presumptive Republican nominee proves all the naysayers wrong, beats Hillary Clinton and wins the presidency, only to forgo the office as the ultimate walk-off winner, Mr. Trump flashed a mischievous smile.
在最近的一次采访中，特朗普被问及了一种在政坛不太可能出现的情形：稳获共和党总统候选人提名的他，证明所有反对者都是错的，打败希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，赢得大选，最终却放弃入主白宫，成为一个还没上台就已下台的胜利者。他脸上掠过了一丝顽皮的微笑。
“I’ll let you know how I feel about it after it happens,” he said minutes before leaving his Trump Tower office to fly to a campaign rally in New Hampshire.
“那一刻到来后，我会告诉你感觉如何，”他在离开位于特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的办公室，飞往新罕布什尔州参加竞选集会的几分钟前表示。
It is, of course, entirely possible that Mr. Trump is playing coy to earn more news coverage. But the notion of the intensely competitive Mr. Trump’s being more interested in winning the presidency than serving as president is not exactly a foreign concept to close observers of this presidential race.
当然了，特朗普完全有可能是在忸怩作态，只为博得更多新闻版面。但密切追踪总统大选的观察人士对这样一种观点并不陌生：和担任总统相比，参与激烈竞争的特朗普对赢得大选更感兴趣。
Early in the contest, his rivals, Republican operatives and many reporters questioned the seriousness of his candidacy. His knack for creating controversy out of thin air (this week’s edition: the Star of David Twitter post) and his inclination toward self-destructive comments did not instill confidence in a political culture that values on-message discipline in its candidates.
选举初期，竞争对手、共和党工作人员以及许多新闻记者都曾质疑他作为候选人的严肃程度。在当前的政治文化中，受到看重的是能够严格保持自己宣传信息一致性的候选人，而他善于无端引发争议（本周的版本是与“大卫之星”有关的推文），喜欢发表带有自我毁灭色彩的言论，难以得到信任。
Those doubts dissipated after Mr. Trump vanquished his Republican opponents and locked up the nomination.
特朗普打败共和党内的竞争对手、锁定提名之后，这些质疑烟消云散了。
“I’ve actually done very well,” Mr. Trump said. “We beat 18 people, right?”
“我确实做得非常好，”特朗普说。“我们击败了18个人，对吧？”
But as the race has turned toward the general election and a majority of polls have shown Mr. Trump trailing Mrs. Clinton, speculation has again crept into political conversations in Washington, New York and elsewhere that Mr. Trump will seek an exit strategy before the election to avoid a humiliating loss.
不过，随着选举即将进入大选阶段，加之大多数民调都显示特朗普的支持率落后于克林顿，在华盛顿、纽约等地的政治对话中，特朗普将于普选前寻求退出方案，以免输得太丢人之类的揣测又悄悄冒出头来。
Now he is refusing to rule out an even more dramatic departure, one that would let him avoid the grueling job of governing, return to his business and enjoy his now-permanent status as a news media celebrity.
现在，他拒绝排除以甚至更加戏剧性的方式离场的可能性，这种方式可以让他免于承担执政者的艰苦工作，回去做他的生意，并享受其新近获得的永不消退的媒体红人身份。
Told of Mr. Trump’s noncommittal comment, Stuart Stevens, a senior adviser to Mitt Romney in 2012 who has become one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal critics, said that Mr. Trump was “a con man who is shocked his con hasn’t been called” and that he was looking for an emergency exit.
当被告知特朗普不置可否的答复时，曾在2012年担任米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的高级顾问，现已成为特朗普最激烈的批评者之一的斯图亚特·史蒂文斯(Stuart Stevens)表示，特朗普是一个“震惊于自己的骗局尚未被识破的骗子”，正打算紧急退出。
“He has no sense of how to govern,” Mr. Stevens said. “He can’t even put together a campaign.”
“他完全不知道如何治理国家，”史蒂文斯说。“他甚至无法拼凑起一支竞选团队。”
Even Mr. Trump’s supporters acknowledge that his past campaigns had the air of a vanity tour. That impression lingers. A recent Trump news release promising “a speech regarding the election” prompted many reporters and political fortunetellers to predict a declaration of his departure. But just the fact that a routine news release prompted paroxysms of conjecture throughout the political universe suggested that, as Mr. Trump might say, “there’s something going on.”
就连特朗普的支持者也承认，他以往的竞选活动给人一种浮夸虚妄之感。这种感觉依然存在。特朗普方面最近发出的一篇新闻稿承诺会有“一场关于普选的演讲”，引得很多记者和政治预言家纷纷预测他会宣布退出。一篇例行发出的新闻稿在政坛的各个角落引发了诸多猜测，单是这一事实就足以说明问题，用特朗普的话说就是：“有点儿不对劲儿”。
Mr. Trump’s campaign and his supporters dismiss the talk as the fantasizing of frightened liberals or frustrated establishment figures.
特朗普的竞选团队和支持者把这种说法斥之为受到惊吓的自由主义者或者沮丧失意的权势人物的幻想。
“He’s not going to pull out,” said Thomas Barrack Jr., a financier and real estate investor who is a close friend of Mr. Trump’s. He compared Mr. Trump’s candidacy to an innovative start-up company: “You never see disruption when it’s happening.”
“他不会退出，”特朗普的密友、房地产投资商小托马斯·巴拉克(Thomas Barrack Jr.)说。他把特朗普的参选比作开办一家创新型初创企业：“在震荡发生的时候，一个人是看不清它的到来的。”
In Mr. Trump’s case, the disruption is everywhere. Last fall, he said in television interviews that if his standing collapsed in the Republican primary polls, he could very well return to his business. In mid-June, amid an onslaught of negative news coverage, he joked to a crowd that he would consider leaving the race for $5 billion.
但在特朗普这里，“震荡”无处不在。去年秋天，他接受电视台采访时表示，如果在共和党初选的民调中他的支持率出现崩溃，那他非常有可能回去做生意。今年6月中旬，他在面临大量负面新闻报道之际开玩笑地对一群人说，如果给他50亿美元，他会考虑退出选举。
On the off chance he actually is planning to back out, what would happen?
万一他真的在做退出的打算，会发生什么？
Alexander Keyssar, a historian at Harvard who is working on a book about the Electoral College, said the process of succession would depend on “the precise moment at which he said, ‘Nah, never mind.’”
哈佛大学(Harvard)的历史学者亚历山大·凯萨尔(Alexander Keyssar) 正在撰写一本关于选举人团的书，他说，接替程序将取决于“他说出‘不，还是算了吧’的具体时间”。
The party representatives who make up the Electoral College would suddenly have real power rather than a rubber stamp. If Mr. Trump bowed out after winning on Nov. 8 but before the electors met in each state to cast their ballots on Dec. 19, then the electors could have the opportunity to vote for another candidate, Professor Keyssar said.
组成选举人团的党代表会突然拥有真正的权力，而非充当橡皮图章的角色。凯萨尔教授说，如果特朗普是在11月8日赢得胜利之后退出，但那时还没到12月19日，各州的选举人还没有聚到一起进行投票，那么选举人就可以把票投给另一位候选人。
A majority of the 538 electors would be Republicans, but they might not agree on the best alternative candidate. If no one won a majority of the electors, the contest between the top three vote-getters — one of whom would presumably be Mrs. Clinton — would go to the House of Representatives, where each state would be given one vote, while the Senate would select the vice president. House Republicans hold 33 states to the Democrats’ 14, with three evenly split. It is unclear whether the vote would take place before or after newly elected representatives were seated.
538位选举人中的大多数都会是共和党人，但他们在谁才是最佳替补候选人的问题上可能存在分歧。如果没人能赢得大多数选举人票，得票最多的三位候选人——其中一位极有可能是克林顿——将会转战众议院。在那里，每个州可以投出一票；副总统的人选则由参议院决定。共和党在33个州的众议员中占多数，民主党在14个州的众议员中占多数，二者在另外3个州中平分秋色。目前尚不清楚，投票会在新当选的众议员上任之前还是之后进行。
It is also unclear what would happen, Professor Keyssar said, if Mr. Trump bid adieu after the electoral votes were cast but before they were officially counted, per the 12th Amendment, by the president of the Senate before a joint session of Congress in January. And if Mr. Trump left after the votes were counted in Congress but before he was sworn in on Jan. 20, Professor Keyssar said the closest guidance would probably come from Section Three of the 20th Amendment: “If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the president, the president-elect shall have died, the vice president-elect shall become president.”
同样尚不清楚的是，凯萨尔教授说，如果特朗普在选举人投票后宣布退出，但当时参议院议长尚未根据宪法第十二条修正案在明年1月的参众两院联席会议前对投票进行正式统计，又会发生什么。此外，如果特朗普宣布退出是在投票结果正式出炉后、明年1月20日宣誓就职前，凯萨尔教授说，最适合的行事依据或许来自宪法第二十条修正案第三款：“如当选总统在规定总统任期开始之时已经死亡，当选副总统应成为总统。”
“Nothing like this has ever happened,” Mr. Keyssar said.
“这样的事情还没发生过，”凯萨尔教授说。
And nothing like it will this year, Mr. Trump’s supporters say.
特朗普的支持者则表示，这样的事情今年也不会发生。
“It’s going to be too late by then,” Roger Stone, Mr. Trump’s longtime political adviser, said of the go-out-on-top theory. “If he got elected president, he’d certainly serve. I’m fairly certain about that. You think he’d resign? I don’t see that happening. There is only one star in the Donald Trump show, and that’s Donald Trump.”
“到那时就晚了，”特朗普长期以来的政治顾问罗杰·斯通(Roger Stone)谈及见好就收理论时说。“如果当选总统，他肯定会走马上任。我坚信这一点。你觉得他会辞职？我认为这是不可能的。在唐纳德·特朗普的秀中只有一个明星，那就是唐纳德·特朗普。”