Donald Trump’s unrelenting assault on the media is in fact an assault on the implacability of truth, the notion of accountability and the power of free speech. It is also a bit of a bow to the conspiracy theorizing that Trump is wont to do.
唐纳德·特朗普对媒体的持续攻击，实际上攻击的是真相的不容改变性，以及问责的观念和自由言论的力量。此外也可以说是特朗普习惯的阴谋论思维使然。
Last week at CPAC, the politically crippled Reince Priebus delivered a soliloquy lamenting Trump’s negative media coverage, saying, “We’re hoping that the media would catch up eventually.”
在上周举行的保守派政治行动会议(CPAC)上，陷入政治困境的雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)发表了一段独白，哀叹特朗普遭遇的负面新闻报道，还表示“我们希望媒体最终能跟上。”
Trump’s “boss,” Steve Bannon, immediately blasted the notion the way a shotgun blasts a quail rising from the brush:
这番言论立刻被特朗普的“老板”史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)打击，就像一只从树丛中跃起的鹌鹑被鸟枪击中。
“The reason Reince and I are good partners is that we can disagree. It’s not only not going to get better. It’s going to get worse every day.”
“我和雷恩斯之所以能成为好搭档，是因为我们可以有不同意见。这种情况不仅不会改观，反而会日益加重。”
Bannon continued:
班农继续讲道：
“And here’s why. By the way, the internal logic makes sense. They’re corporatist, globalist media that are adamantly opposed — adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has.”
“原因在这里。顺便说一句，内在逻辑是讲得通的。他们这样的社团主义、全球主义媒体坚决反对——坚决反对诸如唐纳德·特朗普这样的经济民族主义议程。”
He later added:
他后来又讲道：
“And as economic conditions get better, as more jobs get better, they’re going to continue to fight. If you think they’re going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken. Every day — every day, it is going to be a fight.”
“随着经济形势好转，随着工作机会增加，他们还会持续争斗。如果你觉得他们会不经战斗而将你的国家拱手交还，那就大错特错了。每一天——每一天，都会是一场战斗。”
The conspiracy theory Bannon posits here is perfectly shaped for the xenophobe: America’s media has economic interests that extend well beyond this country’s borders, and therefore Trump’s “America first” message and policies pose a very real, bottom-line threat to the media’s global prosperity. The threat is so urgent that the American media is willfully damaging the only real asset it has — credibility — by inventing falsehoods designed to damage Trump and insulate its own profitability.
班农在这里抛出的阴谋论是为仇外者量身定制的：美国媒体的经济利益远远延伸至这个国家的边境之外，所以特朗普的“美国优先”要旨和政策，对媒体在全球的繁荣造成了一个非常真实和基本的威胁。这个威胁如此紧迫，以致美国媒体在不惜以制造谎言的方式，损害自身拥有的唯一实际资产——信誉，以便伤害特朗普，维护它们自身的收益。
As far-fetched as this may sound to any reasonable person, one must always remember that Trump isn’t a reasonable person or even a particularly smart one, which makes him the perfect vessel for Bannon’s pseudo-intellectual vanities.
尽管这在任何明智的人听起来都有些牵强附会，但你必须永远记住，特朗普不是个明理的人，甚至不是个特别聪明的人，这让他成为班农实现自己的伪知识分子虚荣的最佳工具。
The day after Bannon spoke, Trump himself came to CPAC and reaffirmed his commitment to this anti-media crusade, parroting Bannon’s language.
在班农发表上述言论一天后，特朗普自己也来到保守派政治行动会议，重申他对这场反媒体圣战的承诺，机械地重复班农的语言。
First Trump said: “A few days ago I called the fake news the enemy of the people. And they are. They are the enemy of the people.”
特朗普首先说：“几天前我说假新闻是人民公敌。它们是。它们是人民公敌。”
He continued in a barely coherent diatribe of sentence fragments, incongruous ideas and broken logic. But if you listened closely, you could hear echoes of Bannon. At one point, Trump said: “We have to fight it, folks, we have to fight it. They’re very smart, they’re very cunning and they’re very dishonest.” At another he said of the media: “Many of these groups are part of the large media corporations that have their own agenda and it’s not your agenda and it’s not the country’s agenda, it’s their own agenda.”
他用不完整的句子、不协调的观念和破碎的逻辑，继续进行语无伦次的攻击。但如果你仔细听，会听到班农的回声。特朗普一度表示：“伙计们，我们必须与之抗争，我们必须与之抗争。它们非常精明，它们非常狡猾，它们极其不诚实。”在另一个时刻，他这样谈及媒体：“这些群体中有许多是大传媒集团的一部分，他们有自己的议程，那不是你的议程，不是我们国家的，是他们自己的议程。”
Trump is Bannon’s puppet, whose one sustaining parlor trick is to deliver incoherence with confidence. Strangely enough, people find comfort in this kind of imperfect parlance.
特朗普是班农的傀儡，后者持续使用的一个小把戏是满怀信心地发表支离破碎的言论。奇怪的是，人们在这种不完美的用语中找到了安慰。
Maundering is the rhetoric of the middlebrow.
胡言乱语是庸众的雄辩之辞。
Demagogic language is reductionist language. It draws its power from its lack of proximity to soaring oratory. It can be quaint and even clumsy, all of which can give idiocy, incomprehensibility and untruth a false air of authenticity.
蛊惑人心的语言是高度简化的语言。它之所以有力量，是因为离真正高超的演讲术比较远。它可能怪得出奇，甚至十分粗劣，但这一切能赋予愚蠢、不可理喻和假话一种虚假的真实感。
So Trump and Bannon spin their folksy tale of media corruption to give Trump a needed enemy in his perpetual campaign and a needed diversion from the enormity of his disasters. This fits Trump perfectly because not only does he have a gnawing insecurity, he also views the confrontational nature of news as maleficently targeted.
所以特朗普和班农才编造有关媒体腐败的虚假故事，好给特朗普永不停歇的竞选活动提供所需的敌人，好让人们注意不到他带来的祸患的严重性。这对特朗普来说再合适不过，因为他不仅有挥之不去的不安全感，还认为新闻的对抗性本质是对他的一种心怀叵测的针对。
Trump doesn’t seem to register that lying — all the time! — is not allowed. He doesn’t seem to understand that news, by its very nature, is the publishing of that which those in power would prefer to conceal. He doesn’t seem to realize that fawning promotion of politicians’ positions is not the exercise of journalism but the promotion of propaganda. Or maybe he does and is enraged at the absence of propaganda.
特朗普似乎意识不到，撒谎——无时无刻！——是不被允许的。他似乎不明白，新闻本质上就是发布当权者宁愿隐瞒的东西。他似乎也意识不到，一味讨好政客立场的报道不是新闻实践，而是政治宣传。或许他是明白的，但宣传的缺乏令他恼怒。
So Trump lashes out with mindless twaddle, insinuating that the media has fully abandoned the pillars and principles of journalism to join the opposition.
所以特朗普大发愚蠢的傻话，暗示媒体完全放弃了新闻业的支柱与原则，加入了反对派的行列。
The fact is that Trump simply wants the truth not to be true, so he assaults its quality. He wants the purveyors of truth not to pursue it, so he questions their motives.
事实是，特朗普只想让真相不再为真，所以他就抨击真相的质量。他想让真相的提供者停止追求真相，因此便质疑这些人的动机。
And yet, truth stands, rigid and sharp, unforgiving and unafraid. It is our only guard against tyranny and the brave men and women who labor away in its service are nothing short of patriots and heroes.
然而，真相依然挺立，坚硬又锋利，严酷且无惧。这是我们反抗暴政的唯一保障，忙着这项工作的勇敢的男男女女，是不折不扣的爱国者和英雄。
The press won’t pat Trump on his head and give him a gold star for the few things he gets right, and then turn a blind eye to the overwhelming majority of things he gets wrong.
媒体不会因为特朗普做对了那么寥寥几件事就来夸他，给他颁发金色奖章，然后对占压倒性多数的错事视而不见。
That’s not how it works. That’s not how it has ever worked. Trump wants to brand the press as the enemy of the American people when the exact opposite is true: A free, fearless, adversarial, in-your-face press is the best friend a democracy can have.
这不是媒体的行事方式，一直以来都不是。特朗普想给媒体打上美国人民的敌人的标签，然而事实恰恰相反：独立自主、无所畏惧、勇于对抗和咄咄逼人的媒体，是民主国家所能拥有的最好的朋友。
The press is the light that makes the roaches scatter.
媒体是驱散蟑螂的明灯。
Remember this every time you hear Trump attack the press: Only people with something to hide need be afraid of those whose mission is to seek.
每当你听到特朗普攻击媒体时，请记住这一点：只有有事情要掩盖的人，才需要害怕以寻求真相为己任的人。