WASHINGTON — She is a woman and an immigrant, a fixture of the Republican establishment for two decades. She is a savvy and professional practitioner of the capital’s inside game.
华盛顿——她是一位女性，也是一名移民，作为共和党建制派的显要人物已有20年之久。她是精通首都圈内游戏的职业玩家。
And now she is going to work for President-elect Donald J. Trump.
现在，她要为候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)工作了。
Mr. Trump named Elaine L. Chao on Tuesday as his choice to be the next secretary of transportation, elevating someone whose background and experience are in many respects completely at odds with the brash and disruptive tenor of his anti-Washington campaign.
周二，特朗普任命赵小兰(Elaine L. Chao)为他的交通部长人选。从许多方面讲，被擢升者的背景和经验都与他的反华盛顿竞选活动那种莽撞和扰乱性的基调不符。
But her selection also signaled Mr. Trump’s understanding of the need to surround himself with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his agenda, even if they come from the political establishment he has so often scorned.
但选择这样的人也释放出一个信号，即特朗普明白他需要在身边凝聚一些能帮他完成自身议程中最艰难那些部分的人，哪怕他们来自他通常会鄙视的政治建制势力。
His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players. Mr. Trump, a real estate magnate, has said that infrastructure redevelopment will be a priority of his first 100 days in office. And Ms. Chao has experience — politically and personally — in navigating the competing centers of power in the capital. She is married to Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader.
他的交通部长有可能是比较关键的角色之一。作为房地产大亨，特朗普曾表示，基础设施重建会是他履职头100天里的一个优先事项。不管是在政治还是个人层面，赵小兰都有游走于对立的首都权力派系之间的经验。她的丈夫是肯塔基州共和党人、参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)。
This will be her second time serving in a White House cabinet if she is confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the only official in his administration to serve all eight years.
如果得到批准，这将是赵小兰第二次在白宫内阁担任职务。作为乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的劳工部长，她是唯一一位在其政府效力满八年的官员。
Before that, she worked in various departments across the federal government. She was a White House fellow under President Ronald Reagan and the director of the Peace Corps under President George Bush, who also named her deputy transportation secretary.
在那之前，赵小兰在联邦政府不同的部门工作过。她曾在罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)政府时期担任白宫学者，在乔治·布什(George Bush)政府时期担任和平队(Peace Corps)队长，后者还任命她为交通部副部长。
“That says something,” said Richard F. Hohlt, a veteran Republican consultant and friend of Ms. Chao’s. “She knows how to work a bureaucracy, and she knows how to last.”
“这很能说明问题，”赵小兰的朋友、共和党资深顾问理查德·F·霍尔特(Richard F. Hohlt)说道。“她知道如何做一名政府官员，知道如何坚持下去。”
Her résumé speaks to the ease with which she runs in powerful circles in Washington and beyond. She has worked for Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government as well as the conservative Heritage Foundation. She was also a frequent commentator on Fox News, a role that several of Mr. Trump’s other cabinet picks and candidates share, like K. T. McFarland, whom he named as his deputy national security adviser.
赵小兰的简历显示了她在华盛顿内外的权力圈子里都能如鱼得水。她既为哈佛大学肯尼迪政府学院(Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government)工作过，也曾效力于保守的传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)。她还经常在福克斯新闻频道上以评论员的身份现身，特朗普的其他几名内阁人选和候选人也都有过这种经历，包括被任命为副国家安全顾问的K·T·麦克法兰(K. T. McFarland)。
That is not her only connection to the world of Rupert Murdoch, whose News Corporation includes Fox. She sits on the company’s board of directors.
这不是她与鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的世界唯一的联系。福克斯新闻频道隶属于默多克的新闻集团(News Corporation)，而赵小兰是该公司董事会成员。
She adds some diversity to a cabinet that is so far heavily older, white and male. Ms. Chao, 63, was born in Taiwan and moved to the United States with her family when she was 8.
她为截至目前严重偏老、偏白人和男性的这个内阁增加了一些多样性。63岁的赵小兰出生于台湾，在八岁时随家人移居到了美国。
While the public aspects of her life are well known, Ms. Chao has also played an integral, behind-the-scenes role in her husband’s political career, most recently as he fought off efforts to unseat him in 2014. Described by friends and colleagues as unrelenting, she occasionally stepped out into the public eye to take on her husband’s antagonists.
尽管她的生活面向公众的方面已广为人知，但赵小兰在丈夫的职业生涯中也扮演了必不可少的幕后角色，最近一次则是在后者竭力挫败让他于2014年下台的努力时。在朋友和同事眼中性格不屈不挠的赵小兰，偶尔会走进公众视线，与丈夫的对手交手。
Sometimes they also came for her, and she was happy to take them on as well. After a liberal Kentucky group suggested in 2013 that Ms. Chao was somehow connected to the flight of American jobs to China — a jab evidently intended to portray Mr. McConnell as too cozy with American business interests — she starred in a commercial and rushed to his defense. “Far-left special interests are also attacking my ethnicity, even attacking Mitch’s patriotism, because he’s married to me,” she said. “That’s how low some people will stoop.”
有时他们也会主动向她发起挑战，而她则是乐于迎战。一个肯塔基自由派组织曾在2013年暗示赵小兰由于某种原因与美国的工作向中国流失的情况有关——这样的攻击明显是有意将麦康奈尔描绘成与美国企业集团关系过于亲密的形象——她随即拍了一则广告，迅速为他进行辩护。“极左翼特殊利益集团也是在攻击我的种族身份，甚至因为米奇娶了我而质疑他的爱国精神，”她说。“有人竟可以低劣到这种程度。”
Mr. Trump was impressed by her energy and drive, a senior transition official said, speaking anonymously to reveal the private interactions between Ms. Chao and the president-elect. He also admired her no-nonsense attitude, this official said.
据一位负责交接工作的高层人员透露，特朗普对赵小兰的活力和冲劲印象深刻。此人要求匿名谈论她和候任总统之间的私下交流。这名工作人员还表示，特朗普也很欣赏她直截了当的态度。
But now that she is in line for a prominent position in Mr. Trump’s cabinet, it is her own ties to business that are likely to come under scrutiny. As labor secretary, she faced criticism that her department favored business and was lax on enforcement and worker safety.
但既然赵小兰即将获得特朗普内阁中的重要职位，她个人与企业的关系有可能受到严格的审查。在担任劳工部长时期，她曾被指责其部门偏向企业方，在执法和劳工安全问题上比较松懈。
At the time, she dismissed those concerns as “partisan.”
在当时，她对这些顾虑不屑一顾，称之为“党派”攻击。
Her time out of government service is likely to be the biggest area of focus for labor and other left-leaning interests, though her confirmation in the Senate does not appear to be in any doubt. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, praised her government service on Tuesday, and said he hoped to work collaboratively with her on Mr. Trump’s infrastructure plan, which would have to make it through the Senate her husband leads.
赵小兰不担任公职的时间，有可能才是劳工和其他左倾利益集团最关注的时段，尽管她的任命在参议院获批似乎没什么疑问。纽约州参议员、民主党领袖查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)在周二称赞了赵小兰的公职表现，表示他希望能就特朗普在基础设施建设方面的计划与她展开合作。该计划必须得到由她丈夫领导的参议院的通过。
“I hope Secretary Chao shares that ambitious goal and is willing to work with Democrats,” Mr. Schumer said.
“我希望赵部长有同样远大的目标，愿意与民主党人一起协作，”舒默说道。
A particular area of interest for her critics will be her position on the board of Wells Fargo, which has been tainted by revelations that its managers tolerated and even encouraged its employees to sign customers up for services they did not want.
她的批评者尤其感兴趣的领域会是她在富国银行(Wells Fargo)董事会里的立场。该银行之前曾被曝光有多名经理容忍、甚至鼓励员工让客户注册他们并不想要的服务。