It should be clear by now that there are five different Trump administrations swirling before our eyes — Trump Entertainment, Trump Cleanup, Trump Crazy, Trump G.O.P. and the Essential Trump — and no one can predict which will define this presidency, let alone make a success of it.
现在情况应该很清楚了，我们眼前有五个特朗普政府在打旋——特朗普娱乐、特朗普补救、特朗普疯狂、特朗普共和党，以及特朗普本色——没有人能预测其中哪个会用来定义这届总统，更别说让这个任期取得成功了。
Trump Entertainment shows up every day now in the form of an outrageous “alternative fact,” a pugnacious press conference, a tweet denouncing the news media as “the enemy of the American people” — or as a pep rally in Florida, unconnected to any particular legislative agenda and organized entirely for the purpose of giving the president an ego sugar high.
特朗普娱乐现在每天都以无耻的“另一种事实”、火药味浓重的新闻发布会、谴责新闻媒体为“美国人民的敌人”的推文或者是在佛罗里达州举办的支持者集会等形式出现，它与任何特别的立法议程都无关，完全是为了满足总统的自负需要。
The country, though, is getting addicted to Trump Entertainment. It is hard to avert your gaze from a president who will say anything about anything. It’s so unusual, like a flying elephant or a horse that can talk, that you can’t help but stare. But it’s such a waste of energy. I wonder if the Chinese are spending their days this way. I suspect they’ve added another high-speed rail line just since Trump’s election.
但是这个国家对特朗普娱乐越来越上瘾。要把目光从这位满嘴跑火车的总统身上移开是很难的。这种情形太不寻常，就像一头会说话的飞象或一匹会说话的马，你会忍不住盯着看。但这是一种对精力的浪费。我不知道中国人是否是在用这种方式过日子。我怀疑在特朗普当选后，他们又修好了一条高速铁路。
Trump Cleanup comprises the adults on his team who follow in the wake of Trump Entertainment and “clarify” what the president meant. It’s Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis assuring the South Koreans that — despite what Trump said — we’ll honor our security commitments to them, or assuring the Iraqis that we’re actually not going to steal their oil. It’s the U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, clarifying that — despite what Trump said — we’re still committed to two states for Israelis and Palestinians.
特朗普补救政府包括他团队中的成年人，他们跟在特朗普娱乐之后，对总统的意思进行“澄清”。比如国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)向韩国人保证，虽然特朗普是这么说的，但我们将履行美国对他们的安全承诺，或者是向伊拉克人保证，我们并不会偷走他们的石油。就像联合国大使尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)澄清的，尽管特朗普是那么说的，但我们仍然致力于以色列人和巴勒斯坦人之间的两国并存方案。
The undisputed boss of Trump Crazy is chief strategist Steve Bannon, who rushed the president’s initial mess of an executive order on immigration. Bannon is dedicated to shrinking the global clout of the European Union and Iran, and to making America a country less open to immigration and trade, a country that is whiter and more nationalistic and a country that is as free of Muslim influence and immigrants as possible. He surely encouraged Trump’s attacks on the intelligence community and the media as a way to undermine all independent sources of truth, so that Trump can inject his own reality, through Twitter, directly into the U.S. body politic.
特朗普疯狂政府的老板是首席战略师史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)，这一点无可争议，他匆忙制造了移民禁令给总统任期带来的早期混乱。班农致力于削弱欧盟和伊朗的全球影响，并让美国成为一个对移民和贸易不太开放的国家，这个国家变得更加白人至上，民族主义更强烈，移民和穆斯林的影响尽可能得小。他当然鼓励特朗普对情报界和媒体的攻击，以此来削弱所有独立的真相来源，这样特朗普就可以通过Twitter将他自己的现实直接注入美国。
Trump G.O.P. is led by Reince Priebus and represents the old Republican agenda. It knows that Trump is an invasive species who took over the G.O.P. garden, and Trump G.O.P. is just trying to get the best out of him — to kill Obamacare, cut taxes, deregulate Wall Street, promote fossil fuels and appoint conservative judges — while curbing his worst ideas, like his vow to restrict free trade.
特朗普共和党则由雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)领导，代表旧的共和党议程。他们知道特朗普算是外来物种，接管了共和党这座花园。特朗普共和党只是想让他拿出最好的表现——废除奥巴马医改(Obamacare)、减税、放松对华尔街的管控、提倡化石燃料并任命保守派法官——同时遏制他最坏的主意，比如他限制自由贸易的承诺。
So much of the daily reporting about Trump has had to focus on his serial fabrications that it’s distracted us from the Essential Trump, which can be summed up by the most truthful thing he’s said since he started his campaign: “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose voters.”
在有关特朗普的日常报道中，我们不得不用大量篇幅来报道他那一连串的谎言。这分散了我们对特朗普本色的注意力。特朗普本色可以用下面这句话来概括：“我可以站在第五大道中间朝某个人开枪，却不会失去选民的支持。”这是他自开始竞选以来，说的最真实的一句话。
That’s the Essential Trump — a man who values loyalty above all else and who thinks his followers are so stupidly loyal that they wouldn’t convict him for a murder they saw him commit; a man who thinks only he can get the little people more jobs by single-handedly putting the arm on big companies; and a man who has shown no interest in earning the trust of Americans who did not vote for him. He appointed no Democrats to his cabinet and, as his Florida rally underscored, he is only interested in being president of the Trump fan club.
这就是特朗普本色：认为忠诚高于一切，并且以为支持者对他忠诚到了愚蠢的地步，以至不会在亲眼看到他犯下一宗谋杀罪后判定他有罪；觉得只有他能够通过单枪匹马地逼迫大公司，来给小人物增加就业岗位；对赢得那些没有给他投票的美国民众的信任，没有表现出兴趣。他任命的内阁成员中，没有一位民主党人，并且正如他在佛罗里达州的集会所突显出的那样，他只对当特朗普粉丝俱乐部的总统感兴趣。
When I add up all these Trumps I do not get a good team feeling; I get the feeling of a pickup basketball team. It doesn’t start with a shared vision of what world we’re living in and what are the biggest forces shaping this world. It starts with the conclusions on which Trump bases his facts.
把所有这些特朗普加起来时，我没觉得这是一个优秀的团队。我感觉这是一支临时拼凑起来的篮球队。它的出发点不是对我们生活在一个什么样的世界，以及塑造这个世界的最大力量是什么的一致看法，而是一些结论。特朗普根据这些结论，得出自己的事实。
But the fact is we’re living in a world being shaped by vast accelerations in technology, globalization, climate change and population growth, and government’s job is to enable more citizens to thrive in such a world and cushion its worst impacts. These are the facts on which I base my conclusions.
但事实是，科技、全球化、气候变化和人口增长的急剧加速正在塑造我们所生活的这个世界，政府的工作是让更多公民能够在这样一个世界里兴旺发达，并缓和它所带来的最严重的一些冲击。我根据这些事实，得出自己的结论。
In this age, leaders have to challenge citizens to understand that more is required of them if they want to remain in the middle class — that they have to be lifelong learners.
在这个时代，领导人不得不促使公民明白，如果想留在中产阶级，他们会面对更多要求，并且他们必须活到老学到老。
It’s an age when the governments that thrive the most will be those that are as open to the world as possible — to get the change signals first and attract the most high-I.Q. risk-takers — and at the same time encourage radical entrepreneurship, provide stronger safety nets like health care, and foster life-learning opportunities for every citizen. They have to go left and right at the same time. They are the governments that are focused not on erecting walls but on preparing citizens to live without them.
在这个时代，发展得最好的政府将会对外部世界尽可能开放——以便最先收到变化的信号，并吸引最多高智商冒险家——同时鼓励激进的创业、提供更强大的医疗等社会保障，为每一位公民创造终身学习的机会。它们必须同时兼顾左翼和右翼。这些政府关注的重点不是造墙，而是训练公民生活在一个没有墙的世界里。
It’s an age where the best leaders build trust at the top, and between themselves and their people, because trust is what enables teams to move fast and experiment more. It’s an age when to make America great requires doing big hard things, and big hard things can only be done together. And it’s an age when, because of the speed of change, small errors in navigation by a leader can send us hurtling far off track.
这是一个最优秀的领导人在高层，在他们和民众之间构建信任的时代，因为信任能够让团队迅速行动并进行更多尝试。这是一个只有做大事、难事才能让美国变得伟大的时代，而做大事必须团结一心。这也是一个领导人在方向引领上的小错误可能会导致我们严重偏航的时代，因为变化的速度非常快。
But maybe Trump’s many administrations will surprise us. Maybe elephants can fly. And maybe not.
但也许特朗普的这么多政府会给我们带来惊喜。大象也许会飞。也许不会。