It was mortifying enough when the Republican debate last week introduced the question of whether it was appropriate for one presidential candidate to accuse another of wetting his pants. But the final straw for Gary Goyette and Andrea Todd, who were watching at home in Sacramento with their 10-year-old son, was Donald J. Trump’s jarring, out-of-left-field boast about his sexual endowment.
上周的共和党辩论上提出了一个问题：一个总统候选人指责另一个候选人尿裤子是否合适。这已经够丢脸的了，但是对于在萨克拉门托家中和10岁的儿子一起看电视辩论的加里·格伊特(Gary Goyette)和安德莉亚·托德(Andrea Todd)来说，最后突破他们底限的是，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)令人厌恶而又出人意料地吹嘘起自己的性能力来。
“We were just incredulous,” Ms. Todd said, when Mr. Trump leeringly declared that there was “no problem” with that part of his anatomy. She and her husband looked at each other, she recalled, and then looked at their son. “Gary said, ‘Tommy, you’ve got to leave — you’ve got to get out of here.’ And Tommy actually got up and ran out of the room.”
“这简直难以置信，”托德说。当时特朗普正狎亵地宣称，他身体的那一部分“没问题”。她回忆说，当时她和丈夫对视了一眼，然后看着他们的儿子。“加里说，‘汤米，你得离开——你得离开这里。’然后汤米就起身跑出了房间。”
Many unforeseeable things have happened so far in the raucous Republican presidential race. But the 2016 election — with its rudeness, crudeness, bluster and bullying — has also presented adults with an unexpected, unpleasant dilemma: How on earth do they explain Donald Trump to children?
迄今为止，在喧闹的共和党总统竞选过程中已经出现过许多无法预料的事。但是，充斥着粗鲁、低俗、咆哮和欺凌的2016年选举，还是意外地给成人提出了让他们如坐针毡的难题：究竟该如何向孩子们解释唐纳德·特朗普？
“Quite frankly, it’s been quite embarrassing when I have an 11-year-old who is better behaved and more polite than some people who are the potential next leaders of our country,” said Maury Peterson, who runs Parenting Journey, a nonprofit group in Somerville, Mass., that provides support for families. “This name-calling and making fun of people is basically the opposite of what he’s been taught at home and at school.”
“坦率地说，情况相当尴尬，我家11岁小孩的举止，比有望成为我国下一任领导者的人更得体，更有礼貌。这种辱骂和取笑，和孩子在家里、在学校学到的东西基本上正好相反。”马萨诸塞萨默维尔的莫里·彼得森(Maury Peterson)说。她管理着一个名为“育儿之旅”的非营利性组织，为家庭提供帮助。
For some children, Mr. Trump’s message has filtered down in extremely upsetting, possibly dangerous, ways. Social media has buzzed with parents relaying their children’s fears that they or their friends would be deported, walled in or walled out if Mr. Trump becomes president.
有些孩子所听到的特朗普的言论，可能经过了令人极端不安、甚至可能有危险的层层过滤。孩子们担心，如果特朗普成为总统，自己或朋友就会被驱逐出境，被隔在墙内或是墙外；父母们纷纷在社交媒体上转达这种担心。
Jon Michaud of Maplewood, N.J., who is white and whose wife is Dominican, wrote on Facebook about a conversation he had with one of his two sons: “So if Donald Trump becomes president, he’s going to bring racism back,” he said his 8-year-old had told him. “That means Marcus, Mommy and I will be separated from you because we have darker skin than you do, right?”
乔恩·米肖(Jon Michaud)是一个白人，妻子来自多米尼加，他们与两个儿子住在新泽西州梅普尔伍德。米肖在Facebook上记录了自己与其中一个儿子的对话：“那如果唐纳德·特朗普当了总统，他就会把种族主义带回来，”他说8岁的儿子告诉他：“这意味着马库斯、妈妈和我就会和你分开，因为我们的肤色比你的深，对不对？”
Speaking on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Wednesday, Cokie Roberts put the question to the candidate himself. “There’ve been incidents of white children pointing to their darker-skinned classmates and saying, ‘You’ll be deported when Donald Trump is president,’” she said. “There’ve been incidents of white kids at basketball games holding up signs to teams which have Hispanic kids on them, saying, ‘We’re going to build a wall to keep you out.’”
在MSNBC电视台《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)本周三的节目中，柯奇·罗伯茨(Cokie Roberts)向特朗普本人提出了这个问题：“已经有一些白人孩子指着深肤色同学说，‘唐纳德·特朗普当了总统，你就会被驱逐出境，’在篮球赛中，已经有白人孩子举起了针对有西裔队员球队的标语，‘我们要建起一堵墙，把你挡在外面。’”
“Are you proud of that?” Ms. Roberts asked. “Is that something you’ve done in American political and social discourse that you’re proud of?”
“你为之骄傲吗？”罗伯茨问道。“你为你对美国政治及社会话语产生的影响感到骄傲吗？”
Mr. Trump replied that he had no knowledge of such reports. “I think your question is a very nasty question,” he said, “and I’m not proud of it because I didn’t even hear of it, O.K.?”
特朗普回答称，他不知道此类报道。“我觉得这是个很恶心的问题，”他说。“我没有为此感到骄傲，因为我甚至没听说过，好吗？”
As much as they might want to, parents and educators cannot keep their children insulated from news about Mr. Trump.
家长及教育工作者无法使孩子远离有关特朗普的新闻，尽管他们可能非常希望这么做。
“He’s omnipresent. It’s going to come up, so you better be prepared,” said Carolyn Lee, a substitute kindergarten teacher in the Hawaii public school system.
“他无处不在，这种情况将会出现，所以最好做好准备，”夏威夷公立学校系统幼儿园代课老师卡洛琳·利(Carolyn Lee)说。
With very young children, she advised that parents remain calm and refrain from retaliatory anti-Trump name-calling. 
她建议家里有幼小儿童的家长保持冷静，不要有报复性的反特朗普咒骂。
In Los Angeles, Andy Behrman, a single parent of two girls, 8 and 10, said that his daughters continually accused Mr. Trump of violating “the double v’s,” a reference to their school’s “virtues and values” program.
在洛杉矶，带着8岁和10岁的女儿生活的单身父亲安迪·贝尔曼(Andy Behrman)表示，女儿们不断指责特朗普违背了“两个V”，她们指的是学校的“美德及价值观”项目。
“They’re not picking up on the innuendoes of his hands, they’re not catching on to the genital issue,” Mr. Behrman said. “But they’re catching on to the fact that Trump, Rubio and Cruz are all talking at the same time, which they’ve learned doesn’t make sense. It’s not polite and it doesn’t allow anyone to voice their own opinion.”
“她们不理解有关他的手的讨论影射了什么，也不明白生殖器的问题，”贝尔曼说。“但她们知道特朗普、卢比奥及克鲁兹在同时讲话，她们之前了解到这种行为不可取。这不礼貌，不允许任何人发表自己的意见。”
Parents who support Mr. Trump disagree, of course. They say that his authenticity and his refusal to pander to his critics are more important than the words he uses. And they ask why America’s children are so sensitive that they cannot be exposed to robust views, forcefully expressed.
当然支持特朗普的家长不同意这一说法。他们表示，特朗普非常真实，拒绝迎合针对他的批评者，这比他使用什么词更重要。他们问道，为何美国儿童如此脆弱，以至于不能听到那些强力表达的有力观点。
“This is not about him being rude to people randomly,” said Jeremy Diamond, a marketing executive who lives in Manhattan and has a son, 12, and a daughter, 15. “He shows passion and aggression, and that he’s going to fight for his point of view.”
“这不是他随便粗鲁待人的问题，”曼哈顿的销售主管杰里米·戴蒙德(Jeremy Diamond)说。“他展示出了激情和攻击性，他会为了自己的观点而斗争。”戴蒙德有一个12岁的儿子和15岁的女儿。
He said he was “confident in the integrity and behavior and values” of his children, both of whom have been impressed by Mr. Trump’s take-no-prisoners approach, which Mr. Diamond called “strategic aggression.”
他表示，他对孩子们“的正直、行为及价值观有信心”，他们对特朗普毫无顾忌的风格印象深刻，戴蒙德称之为“战略侵犯”。
“My son said, ‘Daddy, he just wants to show that he is stronger than the other candidates and that he’s not going to get pushed around,’” he said.
他表示，“我儿子说，‘爸爸，他只是想表现出他比其他候选人强大，他不会被人摆布。’”
Ruth Ben-Ghiat, a professor of history and Italian studies at New York University, who has a 15-year-old daughter and has written about Mr. Trump for CNN.com, said that for older children, it helps to place Mr. Trump in the context of a society driven by celebrity and social media.
纽约大学(New York University)历史学及意大利研究教授露丝·本-吉亚(Ruth Ben-Ghiat)表示，对于年纪稍大点的孩子来说，将特朗普置于一个由名人及社交媒体驱动的社会环境会有所帮助。本-吉亚为CNN.com撰写了有关特朗普的文章，她有一个15岁的女儿。
“My daughter asks, ‘Why are you so obsessed with Trump? So what if he did a retweet?’” Ms. Ben-Ghiat said. “But we can tell our children that he’s a product of our branding culture and our selfie culture and our attraction to reality-show television, where the behavior is so brutal.”
“我女儿问我，‘你为何如此迷恋特朗普？他转了一条推又能怎么样呢？’”本-吉亚说。“但我们可以告诉孩子们，他是我们的品牌文化、自拍文化及电视真人秀热潮的产物，真人秀中的行为都很粗鲁。”
The ubiquity of Mr. Trump, she said, provides a useful opportunity for children to examine their own preoccupations.
她表示，特朗普无处不在的现象为孩子们提供了一个审视自身偏见的机会。