BEIJING — For 16 years, the United States has publicly refused to engage in direct talks with North Korea, arguing that doing so would reward its leader, Kim Jong-un, for bad behavior. In the meantime, the North raced ahead with its nuclear weapons program.
北京——16年来，美国公开拒绝与朝鲜直接会谈，认为这样做会鼓励该国领导人金正恩的恶劣行为。与此同时，朝鲜则在加速实施其核武器计划。
Yet with a new president in the White House and South Korea’s leader under the threat of impeachment, a break from the longstanding stalemate suddenly seems possible.
然而，随着新总统就任白宫、韩国的领导人可能遭到弹劾，打破长期的僵局似乎突然有了可能。
China has urged the United States to enter talks with North Korea to end its weapons program, apparently sensing that President Trump’s desire to make deals could break the yearslong deadlock on negotiations.
中国敦促美国与朝鲜谈判，终止其武器计划，这显然是感觉到了特朗普总统非常想打破多年来的谈判僵局。
Beijing did so even after North Korea made another stride in its weapons program on Sunday, testing an intermediate-range missile that went into the Sea of Japan.
朝鲜周日在实施武器计划上再进一步，将一枚远程导弹试射到日本海中，即便如此，北京也仍然保持着这样的态度。
“The root of the North Korean nuclear and missile issue lies in the difference between North Korea and the United States and between North Korea and South Korea,” Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry in Beijing, said on Monday. “We believe that dialogue and consultation offers the way out.”
“朝核导问题根源在于朝美、朝韩矛盾。”北京外交部发言人耿爽周一表示，“我们认为，对话、协商是解决半岛问题的最终出路。”
China was not alone in seeking a new direction, as it appeared to capitalize on a re-evaluation by the Trump administration of how to handle Mr. Kim’s government.
中国似乎是在利用特朗普政府对于如何应对金正恩政府的重新评估，但寻求新方向的并不只有中国。
In Tokyo, after returning from meeting Mr. Trump in the United States, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told a parliamentary committee that Japan needed to join its allies in finding a different approach.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)结束在美国与特朗普的会面回到东京后，对议会的一个委员会说，日本需要和盟友一起找到新的方式。
Japan must “cooperate with the international community, including China,” he said.
日本必须“和包括中国在内的国际社会合作”，他说。
And in South Korea, where the government is paralyzed while waiting for a court’s decision on impeachment and where an election is likely, progressive opposition parties called for new talks, emphasizing that sanctions intended to topple the regime had failed.
在韩国，政府已经瘫痪，并正在等待法院的弹劾裁定，以及可能进行的选举，进步的反对党派强调旨在推翻朝鲜政权的制裁已经失败，要求举行新的谈判。
“Dialogue and diplomacy” are the only proven means to end the development of nuclear weapons, said Choo Mi-ae, leader of the main opposition Democratic Party.
韩国主要反对党共同民主党(Democratic Party)领导人秋美爱(Choo Mi-ae)说，“对话和外交”是唯一证明有效的核武器计划终结手段。
Such talks seemed politically impossible under President Barack Obama, who favored sanctions as the prime safeguard against the North’s nuclear ambitions. There is a growing sense in the region that Mr. Obama’s approach to the North failed.
在奥巴马总统执政期间，这种谈判在政治上似乎是不可能的，因为奥巴马认为制裁是遏制朝鲜核野心的主要举措。该地区的人越来越意识到奥巴马的对朝政策失败了。
Chinese analysts said the White House should seize the chance for a new chapter in dealing with North Korea and abandon Mr. Obama’s policy of applying sanctions.
中国分析人士说，白宫应该抓住机会，在应对朝鲜问题上翻开新的一章，放弃奥巴马的制裁政策。
“We all think that the Trump administration should talk directly with North Korea,” said Lu Chao, director of the Border Study Institute at the Liaoning Academy of Social Sciences in Shenyang. “That would be the best approach to crack this problem.”
“我们都认为特朗普政府应该与朝鲜直接对话。”位于沈阳的辽宁社会科学院边疆史地研究所所长吕超说：“这将是解决问题的最佳方法。”
But the unpredictable nature of dealing with North Korea was underscored by reports on Tuesday that Mr. Kim’s half brother, Kim Jong-nam, had been assassinated in Malaysia.
但是，周二关于金正恩同父异母的哥哥金正男在马来西亚遭暗杀的报道，突显了与朝鲜打交道的不可预测性。
Dealing directly with the North is anathema to most American officials — Republicans and Democrats alike — who say that would be viewed as compensation for the aggressive behavior of a government whose nuclear tests and ballistic missile launches have alarmed the world.
对大多数美国官员来说，无论是共和党人还是民主党人，直接和朝鲜打交道是可恶的做法，他们认为，那是在奖赏一个政府的挑衅行为，它的核试验和弹道导弹发射已经震惊了世界。
On his first official visit to South Korea as defense secretary, Jim Mattis showed little inclination toward talks. Any use of nuclear weapons will be met with “an effective and overwhelming response,” he said. The United States will keep its “ironclad” commitment to allies in the region, he added.
吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)担任国防部长后第一次正式访问韩国期间，并没有表现出倾向于谈判的态度。他表示，任何使用核武器的行为都将遭到“有效的和压倒性的回应”。美国将继续对该地区的盟友保持“铁定的”承诺。
But during his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he would be prepared to sit down with Mr. Kim and share a hamburger with him.
但在竞选总统期间，特朗普说他准备和金正恩坐下来一起分个汉堡包。
The administration has begun to review its policy toward North Korea, apparently heeding a warning by Mr. Obama shortly after the election that the North will be the most immediate foreign policy threat.
特朗普政府已开始审视美国对朝政策，他们似乎注意到了奥巴马在选举后不久发出警告，即朝鲜对美国的外交政策会是最直接的威胁。
After Mr. Trump chose not to mention North Korea during his brief remarks after it launched a ballistic missile over the weekend, some analysts interpreted his uncharacteristic restraint as a sign of wanting to take a different tack.
朝鲜周末发射弹道导弹之后，特朗普决定在一次简短的发言中不提及朝鲜，一些分析师认为，这种不符合他风格的克制态度，显示他希望采取不同的做法。
On Sunday, the North Korean missile flew 310 miles before dropping into the Sea of Japan. The test used a solid-fuel technology, which makes it easier for the country to hide its arsenal underground and roll out its missiles for a quick launch.
周日，朝鲜的导弹在飞行约500公里后落入了日本海。这次试射使用了固体燃料技术，有了这项技术，朝鲜把武器隐藏在地下设施，快速做好导弹发射准备就变得更容易了。
Earlier last week, Chinese officials participated in behind-the-scenes talks with senior members of Mr. Trump’s staff to arrange the first phone call between President Xi Jinping and Mr. Trump.
上周早些时候，中国官员与特朗普幕僚高级成员进行了幕后交谈，为习近平主席和特朗普的第一次电话交谈做安排。
“China wants the Americans to talk directly with North Korea,” said Cheng Xiaohe, associate professor of international relations at Renmin University. “China believes the North Korean nuclear problem actually was caused by the Cold War and Pyongyang’s fear of American invasion. Therefore, the blame falls squarely on the U.S., and all the negotiations should be about the U.S. talking with North Korea.”
“中国希望美国人直接跟朝鲜对话。”中国人民大学副教授成晓河表示：“中国认为朝鲜核问题实际上是由冷战以及平壤担心美国入侵所造成的。因此，责任完全在美国，所有的谈判都应该是美国和朝鲜的对话。”
At the outset, Professor Cheng said China would not be fussy about how the Trump administration approached any talks.
成晓河说，在最开始，中国就不会对特朗普政府以何种方式进行对话感到恼火。
“Generally speaking, China is basically saying, please talk — talk whatever you want, in whatever way you like, as long as you guys could reach some consensus,” he said.
“总的说来，中国基本上都是表示，希望你们进行会谈——想谈什么谈什么，想怎么谈怎么谈，只要你们能够达成一致就行了。”他说。
William J. Perry, a former United States defense secretary, said in Washington last month that the new administration at least had to give direct talks with North Korea a chance to gain China’s help in addressing the nuclear threat.
美国前国防部长威廉·J·佩里(William J. Perry)上个月在华盛顿表示，新政府至少必须尝试与朝鲜直接谈判，才会有机会让中国帮助解决核威胁问题。
“What might make a difference to China is if we really had already gone through a really serious attempt at negotiation, offered a real alternative to North Korea,” said Mr. Perry, who was involved in North Korea policy during the presidency of Bill Clinton and favored Mr. Clinton’s visiting the country. “And if they turn that offer down, then I think we’re in a much better position to go to China and say: ‘We want to really tighten the screws on sanctions.’”
佩里在比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统执政期间参与制定朝鲜政策，曾支持克林顿访问朝鲜，他说：“中国可能看重的事情是，我们是否真的做出了认真谈判的努力，为朝鲜提供了一个真正的选择。如果朝鲜拒绝了这个选择，我想我们就更有理由跟中国说：‘我们想要真地收紧制裁。’”
One American expert on North Korea suggested a clear path for how the Trump administration should proceed.
对于特朗普政府应该如何开展行动，美国的一位朝鲜问题专家指出了一条清晰的道路。
“Trump should start by holding back-channel talks,” said John Delury, assistant professor of international relations at Yonsei University in Seoul. “If those make enough progress, he should then send an envoy to Pyongyang, who could negotiate a nuclear freeze.”
“特朗普应该开始举办非官方的会谈，”首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的国际问题研究副教授鲁乐汉(John Delury)说。“如果这些会谈取得足够多的进展，他应该派一名特使去平壤，谈判核冻结的事情。”
Mr. Trump could then begin high-level talks that would culminate in a meeting with Mr. Kim, Professor Delury said in an article in Foreign Affairs this month.
鲁乐汉在本月发表于《外交事务》(Foreign Affairs)的一篇文章中说，接下来，特朗普就可以开始举行高级别会谈，最终与金正恩会面。
In a counterpoint to the possibility of talks, a former American ambassador to China, Winston Lord, in a report issued last week by the Asia Society on the future of relations between the United States and China, urged heightening economic pressure on North Korea.
与有关对话的可能性形成对比的是，在上周由亚洲协会(Asia Society)发布的一份有关美中关系未来的报告中，前美国驻华大使温斯顿·洛德(Winston Lord)敦促加大对朝鲜施加经济压力。
Attempts by Washington to gain China’s cooperation have consistently failed because Beijing was more interested in maintaining government stability than removing nuclear weapons, he wrote.
他写道，华盛顿为赢得中国合作所做的努力始终无法获得成功，是因为北京对维持朝鲜政府稳定的兴趣要大于消除核武器的兴趣。
Therefore, the United States should move toward “rapid, not incremental, ratcheting up of Iran-type sanctions,” he said.
所以，美国应该转向“快速地而非渐进地加强类似对待伊朗的那种制裁”，他表示。