Shortly after President Trump arrived in France on Friday for an official visit, he took a moment to tell the country’s first lady, Brigitte Macron, what he thought of her physical appearance.
特朗普总统于周五对法国进行正式访问，抵达不久后，他花了一点时间告诉这个国家的第一夫人布丽吉特·马克龙(Brigitte Macron)，他对她的体型外貌的看法。
“You’re in such good shape,” Mr. Trump told Mrs. Macron, who was standing in a grand marble hall with her back to a camera that recorded the incident. He then turned to the president of France, Emmanuel Macron, and said, “She’s in such good physical shape.”
“你身材真好，”特朗普对马克龙夫人说，当时两人在一个宏伟的大理石大厅里，马克龙夫人背后的一台摄像机记录下了这一事件。然后，特朗普转向法国总统埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)说：“她的体型可真好。”
“Beautiful,” Mr. Trump said, turning to the first lady of France. She appeared to grab Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, by the arm and take a step backward. Mrs. Trump stood next to her, smiling.
“真美啊，”特朗普转向法国第一夫人说。她似乎抓住特朗普的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)的手臂，向后退了一步。特朗普夫人站在她身边，微笑着。
The encounter happened during a tour of the Hôtel National des Invalides, a museum complex in central Paris that houses the tomb of Napoleon Bonaparte. It was broadcast live on a Facebook video stream on Mr. Macron’s official Facebook account. A clip of the episode soon spread widely online and in the news media.
这一幕是在双方访问巴黎市中心的综合博物馆荣军院(National des Invalides)期间发生的，那里是拿破仑·波拿巴(Napoleon Bonaparte)的墓地。马克龙的官方Facebook帐户对这次出行做了现场直播。这段插曲的视频片段很快在网络和新闻媒体中广为流传。
Mr. Trump has repeatedly commented publicly on the physical appearance of women he has encountered either as a presidential candidate or as president — including the comedian Rosie O’Donnell and, now, the first lady of France.
在竞选总统期间和担任总统之后，特朗普一再公然评论自己遇到的女人们的外貌，其中包括喜剧演员罗西·奥唐奈(Rosie O'Donnell)，现在又轮到法国的第一夫人。
Last month, Mr. Trump was criticized by members of both parties for attacking the cable news host Mika Brzezinski in a string of tweets, describing her as “low I.Q. Crazy Mika” and claiming that at a past meeting she had been “bleeding badly from a facelift.”
上个月，特朗普先生遭到两党成员批评，因为他发了一系列推文攻击有线台新闻主播米卡·布热津斯基(Mika Brzezinski)，说她是“低智商疯子米卡”，还说以前有一次见面时，她的脸“刚做了拉皮手术，不住渗血” 。
Earlier in June, Mr. Trump interrupted an Oval Office phone call with the prime minister of Ireland, Leo Varadkar, to comment on the physical appearance of Caitriona Perry, a Washington correspondent for Ireland’s national broadcaster.
6月初，特朗普在椭圆形办公室同爱尔兰总理利奥·瓦拉德卡(Leo Varadkar)通电话时突然中断下来，就爱尔兰国家广电机构驻华盛顿记者凯特里奥娜·佩里(Caitriona Perry)的外貌发表评论。
“And where are you from?” Mr. Trump said to Ms. Perry. “Go ahead. Come here, come here. Where are you from? We have all of this beautiful Irish press.”
“你是哪个媒体的？”特朗普对佩里说。“往前走，到这儿来，到这儿来。你是哪个媒体的？这么多美丽的爱尔兰媒体都来了。“
After Ms. Perry introduced herself, Mr. Trump told Mr. Varadkar, “She has a nice smile on her face so I bet she treats you well.”
佩里做过自我介绍之后，特朗普对瓦拉德卡说：“她的笑容很美，我猜她肯定对你不错。”
Mr. and Mrs. Trump are in France to celebrate Bastille Day, the French national holiday, and to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the American entry into World War I, a conflict largely fought on French soil.
特朗普夫妇正在法国庆祝其国庆日巴士底日，并纪念美国参加第一次世界大战100周年，这场战争大部分是在法国领土上进行的。