It has been three weeks since Democrats gathered for their convention, and Hillary Clinton still holds a large and consistent lead in national and battleground state polls.
民主党人聚在一起召开全国大会一事已经过去了三周。现在，在全美和关键州的民调中，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)依然保持着连续的大幅领先。
Her national lead over Donald Trump of 7 to 8 percentage points could slip a bit over the next few weeks. But it has been long enough that much of her expected convention “bounce” should have faded. It leaves Trump in an unenviable position: No modern candidate who has trailed by this much a few weeks after the conventions has gone on to win the presidency.
在全国范围内，她领先唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)七八个百分点。接下来几周，这一优势可能会略微下滑。民主党大会之后，她的支持率“跃升”在意料之中，但过去这段时间本应足以让其中不少支持逐渐消失。这导致特朗普处境不利：在现代历史上，尚没有候选人在两党全国大会结束几周后仍落后这么多，后来却赢得总统之位。
On that basis, you can expect a wave of articles about how the presidential race is basically “over.”
在此基础上，我们可以预计会涌现大量文章，宣称本次总统选举基本“结束”。
That’s probably a bit too strong, at least from a historical point of view. The Upshot’s model gives Clinton an 88 percent chance of winning. It’s about the same probability of hitting a field goal from the 20-yard line.
这么说很可能有点言重了，至少从历史角度来看是这样。“结语”专栏(The Upshot)的模型表明，克林顿赢得大选的可能性为88%。这和橄榄球赛中从20码（约合18米）外踢定位球得分的概率大致相当。
That’s a pretty good way to think about it. If Clinton ultimately wins, we will probably look back and say she had more or less already won it by this point. If she loses, these next two months will be talked about for decades.
这是一个非常好的考虑此事的方式。如果克林顿最终获胜，我们大概会回过头说，此时她或多或少就已经赢了。如果她输了，接下来这两个月将被讨论数十年。
The game-winning field-goal analogy has one big weakness: She may win this by a lot more than a field goal.
将其比作决定胜负的定位球有一个严重缺陷：她赢得这场比赛的优势可能远不止一记定位球。
The possibility of a landslide victory for Clinton — one larger than any since 1984 in the national popular vote — is larger than the chance that Trump will pull it out. According to The Upshot model, Clinton has a better shot at winning the red state of South Carolina than Trump has at winning the presidency. In that sense, perhaps Clinton’s position is more like having a double-digit lead at the beginning of the third quarter.
克林顿取得压倒性胜利的可能性——优势大于1984年以来任何一场全国性普选的胜利——比特朗普止跌的可能性更大。根据“结语”专栏的模型，克林顿赢得红色州南卡罗来纳的几率，高于特朗普赢得总统大选的几率。从这个意义上来说，克林顿的情况或许更像第三节伊始便取得了两位数的领先。
At this point, it’s probably fair to say that Clinton’s lead is real and durable. Gallup data indicate that the post-convention bounce is largely over: Both Trump and Clinton’s favorability ratings have returned to where they were before the conventions.
在这一点上，或许可以说克林顿的领先优势真实而持久。盖洛普(Gallup)的数据表明，全国大会后的跃升基本结束：特朗普和克林顿的支持率都已回到大会前的水平。
Clinton’s gains have proved relatively durable in part because they’ve come from Democratic-leaning voters who seem unlikely to defect to Trump. Recent polls have shown her with the support of up to 90 percent of Sen. Bernie Sanders’ supporters, and more than 90 percent of Democrats.
事实证明，克林顿的支持率增加相对持久，这在一定程度上是因为它们来自看上去不大可能转投特朗普的倾向于民主党的选民。近期的民调显示，她得到了参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的支持者中或达90%的人的支持，以及超过90%的民主党人的支持。
There is one key respect in which Clinton’s big lead doesn’t look so durable, at least in historical terms: She holds only around 48 percent of the vote, and has a commanding lead only because Trump is stuck around 40 percent. In today’s polarized electorate, he can be polling so low only because he hasn’t unified voters who traditionally lean Republican in presidential elections. Astonishingly, several surveys have shown Trump with less than 70 percent of self-identified Republican voters.
在一个关键的方面，克林顿的大幅领先至少从历史角度来看并不那么持久：她只获得了大约48%的支持率，遥遥领先只是因为特朗普的支持率一直徘徊在40%左右。在如今选民呈两极分化之势的情况下，他的支持率如此之低可能只是因为他尚未将大选中历来倾向于共和党的选民团结起来。令人惊叹的是，多项调查显示，特朗普在自认为是共和党人的选民中的支持率不到70%。
The most obvious sign that this year is different is the behavior of Republican politicians: Seven Senate Republicans have not yet endorsed Trump. This is highly unusual. It’s also a problem that could get worse. More Republicans could abandon him, especially if his big deficit in the polls holds, perhaps making it even more acceptable for Republican voters to follow suit.
今年的选举异乎寻常，最明显的迹象是共和党政界人士的行为：七名共和党参议员尚未正式支持特朗普。这种情况非常少见，也是一个或许会进一步恶化的问题。可能会有更多的共和党人放弃他，尤其是如果他在民调中的大幅落后持续下去。这也许会让共和党选民跟风倒戈的做法变得更能接受。
None of this information is incorporated into the statistical models used by The Upshot or other sites, like FiveThirtyEight. To extend the football analogy, the model has no idea whether the quarterback of the trailing team is Peyton Manning or Ryan Leaf.
“结语”专栏和FiveThirtyEight等其他一些网站使用的统计模型均未考虑这些信息。当扩大橄榄球比赛这个比喻的适用性时，这些模型并不知道落后球队的四分卫是佩顿·曼宁(Peyton Manning)还是瑞安·利夫(Ryan Leaf)。
If Trump can’t reunify Republican-leaning voters, Clinton really could win in a landslide. Perhaps many Republicans would skip the presidential race on the ballot, vote for a third-party candidate, or even stay home. A small but important number would vote for Clinton. Maybe she could win by something like 54 to 42, and squeak out a win in South Carolina.
如果特朗普无法将倾向于共和党的选民重新团结起来，克林顿确实可能会以压倒性的优势获胜。或许会有很多共和党人跳过选票上的两党总统竞争，把票投给第三党候选人，甚或直接待在家里。人数少但却颇为重要的一部分人将会把票投给克林顿。她可能会以诸如54%比42%这样的结果赢得选举，并在南卡罗来纳州险胜。
But if Trump could make progress in reunifying Republicans, Clinton would quickly find herself in a tighter race. She would still have the advantage — that 48 percent she currently holds in the polls doesn’t leave Trump very much room.
但如果特朗普在把共和党人重新团结起来这件事上取得进展，克林顿可能很快便会发现，争夺变得更加胶着。她可能仍将占据优势——她目前在民调中的支持率为48%，没给特朗普留下太多的空间。
To squeak out a win, Trump would need to win over enough white working-class voters, particularly white men without a degree, to compensate for his weakness among well-educated voters and Hispanic Republican-leaners, and especially well-educated women. This is what the polls showed when Trump was in a close race or even ahead — as was the case in May or in early to mid-July.
要想博取胜利，特朗普需要争取到足够多的白人蓝领阶层选民，尤其是没有学位的白人男性，以弥补自己在受过良好教育的选民和倾向于共和党的西语裔当中的劣势，特别是受过良好教育的女性。这正是特朗普的支持率与对手相差无几，甚至领先时——5月和7月初到7月中旬——民调显示的结果。
Historically, neither a Clinton landslide nor a close Trump win can be ruled out with 80-plus days to go. Then again, historically — based on so-called fundamentals like the “time for a change” theory of presidential elections — one would expect the Republicans to be even-odds or even slight favorites to win this election.
从历史上来说，在还剩80多天的情况下，克林顿取得压倒性胜利和特朗普以微弱优势取胜的可能性均不能排除。那么再从历史角度来看——根据所谓的基本原理，如总统选举的“改变的时候到了”理论——人们本应预计共和党胜败几率相当，甚至会以微弱优势赢得这次选举。
They are not favored anymore, in no small part because Trump has been performing a lot more like Leaf than Manning. If he keeps doing so over these final months, he could close off what few opportunities he might have left.
这些理论不再受到推崇，在很大程度上是因为特朗普一直表现得更像利夫而非曼宁。如果他在最后这几个月里继续如此，本就所剩无几的机会可能也会被他葬送。