WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump announced Thursday that he will withdraw the United States from participation in the Paris climate accord, weakening global efforts to combat climate change and siding with conservatives who argued that the landmark 2015 agreement was harming the economy.
华盛顿——特朗普总统周四宣布，他将让美国退出巴黎气候协定，此举削弱了全球为防止气候变化而做出的努力，与美国保守派的立场一致。保守派认为，2015年这个具有里程碑意义的协定正在危害美国经济。
But he will stick to the withdrawal process laid out in the Paris agreement, which President Barack Obama joined and most of the world has already ratified. That could take nearly four years to complete, meaning a final decision would be up to the American voters in the next presidential election.
他将坚持开始巴黎协定的退出程序，这个协定是奥巴马总统加入的，已经在全球大部分地区获得了批准。退出程序可能需要将近四年时间才能完成，意味着最后的决定将取决于美国选民在下一届总统选举中的选择。
Still, Trump’s decision is a remarkable rebuke to fellow heads of state, climate activists, corporate executives and members of the president’s own staff, all of whom failed this week to change Trump’s mind with an intense, last-minute lobbying blitz.
尽管如此，特朗普的决定是对其他国家元首、气候活动人士、企业高管以及总统自己幕僚的叱责，他们原本希望最后一刻的大力游说，能让特朗普改变想法。
“In order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate accord but begin negotiations to re-enter either the Paris accord or an entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States,” the president said. “We are getting out. But we will start to negotiate, and we will see if we can make a deal that’s fair. And if we can, that’s great.”
“为了履行我保护美国及其公民的庄严义务，美国将退出巴黎气候协定，但是会在对美国公平的条件下重新加入巴黎协定或一个全新交易，”总统说。“我们将退出这个协定，但是我们将开始谈判，看看能否达成一个公平的协定。如果可以的话，那就太棒了。”
Obama, in a rare assertion of his political views as a former president, castigated the decision.
作为前任总统，奥巴马罕有地对自己的政治观点进行了维护，严厉谴责了该决定。
“The nations that remain in the Paris Agreement will be the nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created,” he said in a statement. “I believe the United States of America should be at the front of the pack. But even in the absence of American leadership; even as this administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future; I’m confident that our states, cities, and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way, and help protect for future generations the one planet we’ve got.”
“仍然留在巴黎协定中的国家，将会从新增的就业机会和新生的产业中获益。”他在一份声明中说：“我相信美利坚合众国应该走在前面。但即使没有国家的领导，即使这个政府加入了少数拒绝未来的国家行列，我相信，我们的州、城市和企业将会站出来发挥领导力，为子孙后代保护好我们的地球。”
Most Republicans applauded the decision.
大多数共和党人赞扬了这一决定。
“I applaud President Trump and his administration for dealing yet another significant blow to the Obama administration’s assault on domestic energy production and jobs,” said Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.
多数党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)表示：“我赞赏特朗普总统及其政府再次出手大力回击奥巴马政府对国内能源生产和就业机会造成的冲击。”