Donald Trump, making his first appearance on “Saturday Night Live” as a presidential candidate, was satirized by two well-coiffed doppelgangers, who attempted (admirably) to outboast him in matching red ties.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)第一次以总统候选人身份出现在“周六夜现场” （Saturday Night Live，简称SNL），被两名顶着满头秀发的模仿者挖苦，他们（令人钦佩地）企图用同样的红领带来跟他抢镜。
“Now that I'm here, this is actually the best monologue in `SNL' history,” one of them declared.
“此刻我站在这里，事实上今天的独白就是 ‘SNL史上’最棒的，”其中一个模仿者宣称。
Trump was loudly and provocatively heckled by actor Larry David, who repeatedly called him a “racist” from offstage.
演员拉里·戴维(Larry David)在台下大声挑衅特朗普，一再称他为“种族主义者”。
And he was lavished with praise by a fictional White House aide, who told him that “everyone loves the new laws you tweeted.”
他还得到一位虚构的白宫助手的极力吹捧，对他说“大家都很喜欢你在推特上发布的那些新法律。”
Trump, a man famed for his self-aggrandizing ways, seemed to relish the chance to show that he could take a joke — a point that he made explicitly in his opening monologue as host on the NBC show.
因其自我夸大的手法而闻名的特朗普，似乎很乐意展现自己开得起玩笑的一面——这一点在他主持这个NBC节目的开场白里有明确的表示。
But his was a stilted and sometimes unfunny performance, suggesting Trump is most at ease when hosting his own, seemingly never-ending TV show, rather than appearing as a guest host on somebody else's.
但从他生硬且时而无趣的表现可见，特朗普还是在主持自己那个永无止境的电视节目时才最自在，而作为嘉宾主持出现在别人的节目里就差远了。
Trump appeared in a variety of skits, amid protests from Latino activists who had demanded that the network bar him from the show because of his controversial remarks about immigrants and his stated position that he would deport millions of undocumented residents.
由于针对移民发表的争议性言论，再加上曾表示自己会驱逐数百万无证居民，在特朗普此次登台参演多个小品之时，拉丁裔活动人士发起了抗议活动，要求NBC禁止他上节目。
Outside the show's studio in midtown Manhattan, at least 200 demonstrators marched with signs in English and Spanish. Carrying placards declaring “We are the people” and “Shut it down” to the beat of drums, they also brandished large papier-mâché masks depicting Trump and held aloft such other messages as “Trump: La Cara del Racismo” and “SNL: This is how you fix your diversity problem?”
位于曼哈顿中城的节目摄影棚外，有至少200名持英文和西班牙文标语的示威者在游行。他们伴随鼓声节奏，手拿写着“我们是人民”和“停止节目”的牌子，还有人挥舞着特朗普的巨大纸面具，高举“Trump: La Cara del Racismo”（特朗普：种族主义的面孔）和“SNL：就这样解决你的多样性问题吗？”这样的标语。
“Saturday Night Live” seemed sensitive to the critique: David's prominent, defiant cameo during the opening monologue seemed designed to both acknowledge and answer the protesters.
“周六夜现场”似乎感受到了这些批评：戴维这个刺眼、挑衅的客串角色，似乎既是表示知悉抗议者的存在，也是对他们的一种回应。
But overall, Trump was his usual, colorful and playful self: When David explained that he had heard he would be paid $5,000 to shout that Trump was a racist, Trump said he understood.
但总体来说，特朗普还是他一贯的样子，活分而生动：戴维解释说，他听说只要喊一声特朗普是种族主义者，就能得到5000美元，特朗普说他能理解。
“As a businessman,” he said, “I can respect that.”
“作为商人，”他说“我尊重你的做法。”
Trump trotted out plenty of bravado. After reciting a list of his attributes — rich, funny, handsome — he answered the question on everyone's mind:
特朗普不断抛出虚张声势的话。一一讲诉完了他一系列的特点──富有、好笑、英俊──他还回答了每个人心中的问题：
“So why are you hosting `SNL'? Why? And the answer is I really have nothing better to do.”
“那为什么你还在主持‘SNL’呢？为什么？答案是，我真的没有更好的事情可以做了。
As the show dragged on, that seemed apparent. Trump's sketches seemed to become increasingly less compelling. In one, he appeared as a profoundly unwelcome guest — a musician crashing a family dinner and offering a wide, somewhat menacing grin as he thrust a microphone into the hand of the man at the head of the table.
随着节目拖拖拉拉地进行，这一点变得愈发明确。特朗普的小品似乎越来越没意思。在其中一个小品中，他作为一个极度不受欢迎的客人出场──一个到别人家蹭饭的音乐家，一边做出有点恐吓性的夸张笑容，一边把麦克风塞到坐在餐桌主人位的男人手里。
Trump also appeared aware of the perils of live sketch comedy. Referring to episodes of “Saturday Night Live” past, he said: “This show has been a disaster for me.”
特朗普似乎也清楚现场喜剧小品的风险。提到过去的几集“周六夜现场”，他说：“对我来说这个节目是场灾难。”
The show concluded with a tawdry touch. Two women said to be former prostitutes stood on the stage, promoting “clown-themed political pornos.”
节目以带有一丝俗气的手法结束。两位据称曾是妓女的女士站在台上宣传 “以小丑为主题的政治色情片”。
Trump appeared at the end of the skit, vowing that he did not in any way endorse the message.
特朗普在小品结尾登场，发誓自己完全不会为刚才那段言论背书。
Then he turned knowingly to one of the women.
然后他故意转向其中一个女人。
“Didn't you used to be a brunette?”
“你原来不是深色头发的吗？”
“Yeah,” she replied.
“是啊，”她回应。
“That's what I thought,” Trump said.
“我就说嘛，” 特朗普说。