I would like to believe that what fascinated Donald Trump about the floodwaters of Texas and pulled him to the state on Tuesday were the scenes of human suffering.
我愿意相信，让唐纳德·特朗普对德克萨斯州的洪水分外关注，并牵引着他在周二赶赴该州的，是人类蒙难的场景。
I would also like to believe that I’m a dead ringer for Brad Pitt.
我还想相信，我和布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)简直是一个模子刻出来的。
But what Trump saw in Hurricane Harvey was a mirror of his own majesty. A storm worthy of a stud like him. A meteorological complement to one of his resorts, rallies or steaks. Something really, really big.
但特朗普在飓风哈维(Hurricane Harvey)中看到的，是自身威严的镜像。是一场值得他这样的帅哥瞩目的风暴。是他的度假村、政治集会或牛排的气象佐料。是某种非常、非常大的东西。
“Even experts have said they’ve never seen one like this!” Trump marveled on Twitter, and I read exultation into that not because I’m sour on the president but because I have eyes. Also because I have a memory. He has used almost exactly those words to describe a buffet of developments in his rise and reign, always with an air of self-impressed wonder.
“就连专家都说，他们从未见过这种情况！”特朗普在Twitter上发出惊叹。我之所以从中读出欢欣，并不是因为我不喜欢总统，而是因为我长了眼睛。还因为我有记忆。他用几乎一模一样的措辞，描绘过自己的崛起和统治过程中的种种新进展，常常带着一种自我陶醉式的惊叹。
I keep hoping against hope that a new challenge will tease out a new Trump and that if he malingers in the presidency long enough, he’ll meander in the direction of eloquence, slouch toward poetry and tumble into inspiration. Stranger things have happened. I’ll have to get back to you on what they were.
我一直怀有一线希望，特朗普能在面临新挑战之际展现出一个全新的自己，希望如果在任上混得足够久，他会迂回着走向得体言辞，会懒散地迈向诗意，会一头栽进灵感之中。更离奇的事情都有发生过。至于都是什么，得回头再说了。
But Trump’s hurricane talk and hurricane tweets were like his fair-weather fare: childishly intent on superlatives, puerilely obsessed with size, laden with boasts and lavish with discordant asides.
但特朗普关于飓风的谈话和推文，似乎只适合锦上添花：他孩子气地热衷于极致现象，幼稚地沉迷于规模，夸张之词和不合时宜的独白不停往外冒。
“Thanks!” he exclaimed at the end of a tweet that was mostly about the “historic rainfall in Houston” and the “unprecedented” flooding. True, he was referring to the “spirit of the people” that he also squeezed into that 140-character nook, but his chirpy gratitude had a kooky ring. It framed him not as a leader sweating the fate of his people but as a spectator watching nature’s angriest reality show.
“感谢！”他在主要是关于“休斯顿的历史性降雨”和“史无前例”的洪水的一则推文结尾高呼。的确，这话针对的是被他勉强塞进140字小文中的“民众的精神”，但他欢快的致谢声有着古怪的回响。这让他看上去不像一个担忧子民命运的领导人，而像一名观众，在看着大自然最狂暴的真人秀。
“Wow” was how he began another tweet. Call me cranky, but I don’t think most Americans are looking for “wow” amid woe of this order.
他的另一则推文以“哇”开头。你或许觉得我大惊小怪，但我认为，灾难当头之际，大多数美国人都会不想要看到“哇”字。
It will be days or even weeks before we can definitively appraise how well the Trump administration addressed this crisis, along with precisely what mistakes state and local officials made.
得再过几天乃至几个星期，我们才能最终判定特朗普政府在应对这场危机的过程中做得怎么样，才能精确地评估州和地方官员犯下的错误。
But what we know already is that Harvey didn’t blow away the opportunism and narcissism at Trump’s core. In comments at the White House on Monday, he actually suggested that he’d timed the announcement of his pardon of Joe Arpaio to coincide with the storm’s arrival, because more people were monitoring the news.
但我们已经知道，哈维没有吹散特朗普内心深处的投机主义和自恋。周一在白宫发言时，他的确暗示自己故意选在风暴降临之际宣布赦免乔·阿帕尤(Joe Arpaio)的消息，因为这样的时刻关注新闻的人会更多。
“In the middle of a hurricane, even though it was a Friday evening, I assumed the ratings would be far higher than they would be normally,” he said. Thousands of Texans were losing their homes. Some had died. And Trump, per usual, was measuring his audience.
“飓风肆虐的时候，即便在周五晚上，我认为收视率也会比平常高很多，”他说。成千上万的德克萨斯人正失去家园。一些人甚至失去了生命。特朗普却像往常一样，在衡量他会有多少观众。
And complimenting himself. Across the past four days, he has repeatedly stressed how well his team is doing. Under normal circumstances and normal presidents, that could be interpreted as an attempt to reassure Texans. Under these circumstances and Trump, we know better.
还有就是自我吹捧。过去四天里，他反复强调自己的团队做得有多好。如果是在正常情况下，且当政的是一个正常的总统，我们可以将之解读为试图让德州人安心的举动。而在当前情况下，且当政的是特朗普，我们还不至于那么笨。
When he and Melania in their his-and-hers, salt-and-pepper baseball caps faced the television cameras in Corpus Christi, Tex., early Tuesday afternoon, he was already itching to take a victory lap.
周二下午早些时候，他和梅拉尼娅(Melania)分别头戴白色和黑色棒球帽，在德州科珀斯克里斯蒂面对电视镜头之际，他已然心痒难耐，想要绕场一圈庆祝胜利。
“We won’t say ‘congratulations,’ ” he told the state and federal officials arrayed around him in a firehouse, referring to their rescue and relief efforts. “We don’t want to do that. We’ll congratulate each other when it’s all finished.”
“我们不会说‘祝贺’，”他在一个消防站内对环绕在身旁的州和联邦官员说。“我们不想那样做。我们将在一切都结束以后祝贺彼此。”
Do wait a bit, Mr. President, if you can summon the restraint. And maybe temper any gloating, lest someone — oh, heck, I’ll do it — point out that your stance and inaction on climate change contradict any meaningful concern for the devastation in Texas.
烦请稍等，特朗普先生，如果你有办法自我克制的话。或许也不该那么沾沾自喜，以免有人指出——见鬼，说的就是我——你对气候变化的立场和不作为，会让你对德州灾难的任何关切显得毫无意义。
Having chosen in the past to ignore all the experts who chart changing climate patterns, Trump on Sunday tweeted: “Experts are calling #Harvey a once in 500 year flood!” They have no authority when they tell him inconvenient truths, but they’re entirely credible when they describe circumstances that pump up his already-bloated ego.
特朗普以前选择忽略所有描绘气候变化图景的专家，周日却发了这样一条推：“专家称#哈维为500年一遇的洪水！”如果专家告知的是他不愿面对的真相，那他们就毫无权威可言；如果专家描绘的情况能给他那业已膨胀的自我打气，那他们就完全值得信任。
“Historic.” “Biggest ever.” “Epic.” That was Trump on Harvey.
“历史性的。”“史上最大的。”“史诗级的。”特朗普用这些词来描绘哈维。
“Historic.” “Massive.” “The likes of which the world has never seen.” That was Trump on his election victory.
“历史性的。”“重大的。”“世人前所未见的。”特朗普用这些词来描绘其胜选。
The weather around him changes. The weather inside him doesn’t. It’s a warm bath of self-regard — the biggest ever, I’d wager — and it overrides everything else.
他身外的天气不断变化。而他内心的天气始终如一。他沐浴在温暖的自我欣赏之中——我敢打赌，那是史上最强的自我欣赏——其他的一切都无法与之相提并论。
During those Monday remarks at the White House, President Sauli Niinisto of Finland was with him, and that prompted Trump to recall that he had visited Finland in the 1990s.
特朗普周一在白宫发言期间，芬兰总统绍利·尼尼斯托(Sauli Niinisto)和他待在一起。这促使他忆及自己曾在1990年代到访芬兰。
“I was famous in the ’90s, too,” he added, apropos of … what? Perhaps he felt the need to make clear that he was a force of nature decades before Harvey came along.
“我在1990年代也很出名，”他继续说起……什么呢？或许他觉得有必要澄清，早在哈维降临几十年前，他就是自然界一股庞大的力量。
When he left the Corpus Christi firehouse on Tuesday, he noticed that about 1,000 people had gathered outside and he heard some cheering.
周二离开科珀斯克里斯蒂的消防站时，他注意到约有1000人聚在外边，还听到了一些欢呼声。
“What a crowd!” he boomed and beamed. “What a turnout!” All the water in the world couldn’t drown his satisfaction.
“人真多！”他来了精神，眉开眼笑。“来的人可真不少！”世上所有的洪水都无法淹没他的心满意足。