So, Time magazine, ever in search of buzz, this week named Donald Trump Person of the Year. But they did so with a headline that read, “President of the Divided States of America.”
永远在搜寻热点话题的《时代》(Time)杂志确实在本周将年度风云人物的称号授予了唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。但他们的标题写着“美利坚分众国总统”。
The demi-fascist of Fifth Avenue wasn’t flattered by that wording.
这种措辞让第五大道那位半法西斯人士感到不快。
In an interview with the “Today” show, Trump huffed, “When you say divided states of America, I didn’t divide them. They’re divided now.” He added later, “I think putting divided is snarky, but again, it’s divided. I’m not president yet. So I didn’t do anything to divide.”
特朗普在接受《今日秀》节目采访时气恼地表示，“你们说分众国，我没有分裂它们。可现在它是分裂的。”他后来还讲道，“我觉得分众国这种说法是讽刺挖苦，但再次声明，它现在就是分裂的。我还没当上总统，所以没做什么导致分裂的事。”
Donald, thy name is division. You and your campaign of toxicity and intolerance have not only divided this country but also ripped it to tatters.
唐纳德，你的名字就是分裂。你和你那有毒性、不宽容的竞选团队不仅分裂了这个国家，还把它撕成了碎片。
This comports with an extremely disturbing tendency of Trump’s: Denying responsibility for things of which he is fully culpable, while claiming full praise for things in which he was only partly involved.
这符合特朗普身上一种极为令人不安的倾向：拒绝为完全因他而起的事情承担责任，同时，一些他部分参与的事情，却又把功劳全部揽到自己身上。
As my mother used to say: Don’t try to throw a rock and hide your hand. Own your odiousness.
我母亲曾经说：不要干了坏事却装无辜。要承认自己的可憎。
But Trump delivered the lie with an ease and innocuousness that bespoke a childish innocence and naïveté. In fact, his words disguised cold calculation.
但特朗普却以只属于孩子的幼稚和天真轻而易举地撒谎，并做出无公害的模样。而实际上，他的话里隐藏了冷静的算计。
That is the thing about demagogy: It can be charming, even dazzling, and that is what makes it all the more dangerous.
蛊惑人心的言论就是这样：它可以很迷人，甚至光芒四射，这正是它更危险的地方。
Demagogues can flatter and whisper and chuckle. They can remind us of the good in the world because they have an acute awareness of the ways of the world. They can also love and be loved. They can reflect our own humanity because they are human, but their ambitions do not bend toward the good.
蛊惑人心的政客会奉承、耳语、偷笑。他们会让我们想到这个世界的美好，因为他们很清楚这个世界是怎样的。他们也会爱与被爱。他们身上能反映出我们自己的人性，因为他们也是人，但他们追求的目标不会朝向好的一面。
Their ultimate end is distraction, which allows domination, which leads to destruction.
他们的终极目标是分散注意力，制造允许主宰的空间，由此带来破坏。
Trump is running two post-campaign campaigns: one high and one low, one of frivolity and one of enormous consequence.
特朗普在进行两场竞选后的行动：一个高一个低，一个无足轻重，另一个则会带来严重的后果。
One is a campaign of bread and circuses — tweets, rallies, bombast about random issues of the moment, all meant to distract and excite — and the other is the constant assemblage of a cabinet full of fat cats and “mad dog” generals, a virtual aviary of vultures and hawks.
其中一场是提供消遣娱乐的竞选活动——推文，集会活动，对当前的问题随意夸夸其谈；另一个的则是不断征召有钱的赞助人和“疯狗”将领入阁，基本就是一群秃鹫和老鹰。
On Wednesday, The New York Times reported that Trump had “settled on Gen. John F. Kelly, a retired four-star Marine general whose son was killed in combat in Afghanistan, as his choice for secretary of Homeland Security.”
据《纽约时报》周三报道，特朗普已经“选定儿子在阿富汗战争中殉职的海军陆战队退役四星上将约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)担任他的国土安全部长”。
They also pointed out that Kelly had “dismissed one argument cited by those who advocate closing the military prison at Guantánamo, saying it had not proved to be an inspiration for militants.” The prison fell under his command.
时报还指出，凯利“驳斥了支持关闭关塔那摩军事监狱的人提出的一个观点，称它并没有在激发激进武装分子的行动。”这座监狱属于他的管辖范畴。
Make no mistake: the prison at Guantánamo is one of the most glaring and enduring moral blights remaining from our humanitarianism-be-damned reaction to the attacks of 9/11.
有一点是确凿无疑的：关塔那摩监狱是我们在9·11之后做出的“去他的人道主义”式反应留下的最惊人、最挥之不去的道德祸患。
Trump said of the prison last month:
特朗普在上个月提到了这座监狱：
“This morning, I watched President Obama talking about Gitmo, right, Guantánamo Bay, which by the way, which by the way, we are keeping open. Which we are keeping open ... and we’re gonna load it up with some bad dudes, believe me, we’re gonna load it up.”
“今天上午，我看了奥巴马总统谈论关塔那摩监狱的讲话，没错，就是关塔那摩湾，顺便说一句，顺便说一句，我们不会关闭这座监狱……我们会在里面关满坏家伙，相信我，我们会把它填满。”
The Times also said that Kelly “questioned the Obama administration’s plans to open all combat jobs to women, saying the military would have to lower its physical standards to bring women into some roles.”
时报还提到，凯利“对奥巴马政府向女性开放所有作战岗位的计划表示质疑，称让女性承担一些这类职位，军队将不得不降低自己的体格标准。”
This is disturbing, but Kelly isn’t the only one of Trump’s military picks who has a disturbing attitude toward women.
这让人感到不安，但凯利不是特朗普的军队职位人选中唯一一个对女性持有可怕态度的人。
Last month, The Daily Beast reported that the office of Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Trump’s pick for national security adviser, “told women to wear makeup, heels, and skirts.” These directives to women were presented in a “January 2013 presentation, entitled ‘Dress for Success,’” which was obtained by a Freedom of Information request by MuckRock. The presentation reportedly made sweeping patriarchal declarations — “makeup helps women look more attractive” — and gave granular detail — “Wear just enough to accentuate your features.” According to the presentation, “Do not advocate the ‘Plain Jane’ look.”
据Daily Beast网站上月报道，被特朗普选中担任国家安全顾问的陆军中将迈克尔·T·弗林(Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn)的办公室“要求女性化妆、穿高跟鞋和裙子”。这些向女性发出的命令出现在2013年1月一份“题为《穿出成功》(Dress for Success)的PPT文件中，它是由MuckRock依照《信息自由法》提出申请后获得的。据报道，这份文件做出了富有男权意味的一刀切宣言——“化妆能让女性看起来更吸引人”——还提出了大致的要求——“穿着要恰到好处地突显你的特征。”文中还表示，“不要倡导朴实无华的外观。”
So, in other words, while G.I. Joe is in camouflage, G.I. Jane should be in concealer. Got it. Indeed, on Wednesday, my colleague Susan Chira pondered in these pages: “Is Donald Trump’s Cabinet Anti-Woman?” She went through a litany of anti-woman positions taken and policies advanced by Trump appointees, leaving this reader with the clear conclusion that yes, it is. She closed with this: “One of the few bright spots that women’s advocates see in a Trump administration are proposals championed by Ivanka Trump to require paid maternity leave and offer expanded tax credits for child care.” But, as she notes, there is legitimate criticism that even that is patriarchal because it doesn’t cover paternal leave.
换句话说就是大兵乔(G.I. Joe)要有迷彩，大兵简(G.I. Jane)要用遮瑕霜。明白了。事实上，我的同事苏珊·希拉(Susan Chira)周三在评论版发文，思考了这样一个问题：“唐纳德·特朗普的内阁是反女性的吗？”她梳理了被特朗普任命的人持有和支持的一长串反女性立场和政策，让我这个读者在看完后只能得出这样一个清晰的结论：没错，是的。她以这样的话作结：“女性权利倡导者在一个特朗普政府看到的为数不多亮点之一，是由伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)支持的提议，即要求提供母亲带薪产假和为儿童看护提供更多税额减免。”但即便这个都有人合理指出是男权的表现，因为其中不包括父亲带薪产假。
The question hanging in the air, the issue that we must vigilantly monitor, is whether the emerging shoots of egalitarianism in this country will be stomped out by the jackboot of revitalized authoritarianism.
依然悬在空中、令我们必须时刻警惕的问题是，这个国家正在涌起的平等主义浪潮，会不会被复苏的独裁主义的高压手段压制。
I feel like America is being flashed by a giant neuralyzer, à la “Men In Black.” We are in danger of forgetting what has happened and losing sight, in the fog of confusion and concealment, of the profundity of the menace taking shape right before us.
我感觉美国正被一根巨大的失忆棒扫过，就是电影《黑衣人》(Men In Black)里那种。我们面临危险，有可能在混淆和隐瞒的迷雾中遗忘已经发生的事，看不到面前正在形成的威胁的严重程度。
That is our challenge: To see clearly what this deceiver wants to obscure; to be resolute about that to which he wants us to be resigned; to understand that Time’s man of the year is, by words and deeds, more of a madman of the year.
那是我们的挑战：看清楚这个骗子想掩盖的东西；对他想让我们听之任之的东西坚定不移；懂得今年《时代》的年度风云人物，更多的是指年度疯狂人物，不管就言语还是行动而论，都是如此。