The strained relationship between Donald J. Trump and The New York Times took an odd path on Tuesday when a planned meeting between the president-elect and the newspaper was abruptly canceled by Mr. Trump and then quickly rescheduled.
侯任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)和《纽约时报》之间的紧张关系在本周二有一段奇怪的经历，双方原定的会议突然被特朗普取消，然后很快又重新做了安排。
After a morning of back-and-forth statements and Twitter posts, Mr. Trump arrived at midday for a meeting with Times representatives at the paper’s Midtown headquarters. Seated next to the publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., in the paper’s Churchill Room, he said he had great respect for the paper but thought its treatment of him had been “very rough.”
经过了一早上的来回声明和Twitter发送之后，特朗普中午来到报社位于中城的总部，与报社代表开了会。在丘吉尔室(Churchill Room)里，他坐在时报出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)的旁边。特朗普说他非常尊重时报，但认为时报对他的态度“非常粗暴”。
He added that he hoped he and the paper could improve their relationship.
他说，希望双方可以改善关系。
In the end, the 75-minute meeting was a relatively cordial discussion, with Mr. Trump covering the full range of his sometimes conflicting attitudes toward the media. The president-elect began the meeting with some complaints about his coverage in The Times, saying he had been “treated very rough” and “treated very unfairly in a sense, a true sense.” But he also confessed to being a devoted reader of the newspaper, and ended the meeting by praising The Times as “a world jewel” and adding, “I hope we can all get along.”
最终，会议进行了75分钟，大家在相对亲切的气氛中进行了讨论，特朗普谈到了他对时报不无矛盾的各种心态。会议从特朗普对时报报道的抱怨开始，称他遭到了“非常粗暴”和“在某种意义上非常不公平的对待，真的很不公平”。但他也承认自己是时报的忠实读者，在会议结束时，称赞时报是“世界的瑰宝”，并说“希望我们好好相处”。
Hours earlier, it appeared that the meeting would not take place. Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter shortly after 6 a.m. that he had called off the meeting, contending that the ground rules had been changed.
就在数小时前，这次会议看上去好像开不成了。早上刚过6点，特朗普就在Twitter上发消息说，他已经取消了会议，认为双方会面的基本原则发生了变化。
A spokeswoman for The Times, Eileen Murphy, said the paper had not changed the arrangements for the meeting and was not aware it had been canceled until Mr. Trump posted on Twitter. The company said that Mr. Trump’s team had asked on Monday to change the ground rules of the meeting, but that the paper had declined.
时报发言人艾琳·墨菲(Eileen Murphy)说，时报没有改变会议的安排，直到看到特朗普的Twitter消息才知道会议已经取消。该公司表示，特朗普的团队周一要求改变会议的基本原则，但该报已经拒绝。
“We did not change the ground rules at all and made no attempt to,” she said. “They tried to yesterday — asking for only a private meeting and no on-the-record segment, which we refused to agree to.”
“我们根本没有改变会议的基本原则，也没有试过要去改变，”她说。“是他们昨天想变——要求只开一个非公开会议，不举行公开会议，我们不同意。”
She added: “In the end, we concluded with them that we would go back to the original plan of a small off-the-record session and a larger on-the-record session with reporters and columnists.”
她表示：“最后，我们双方达成一致，回到最初的计划上，即开一个小型的非公开会议，然后与记者和专栏作家开一个更大的公开会议。”
Three people with knowledge of Mr. Trump’s initial decision to cancel the meeting said that Reince Priebus, the incoming White House chief of staff, had been among those urging the president-elect to cancel it, because he would face questions he might not be prepared to answer. It was Mr. Priebus who relayed to Mr. Trump, erroneously, that The Times had changed the conditions of the meeting, believing it would result in a cancellation, these people said.
三名知道特朗普取消会议始末的人说，未来的白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)等人敦促特朗普取消这次会议，称他可能会被问到一些措手不及的问题。他们还说，正是普利巴斯传送了错误的信息给特朗普，称时报已经改变了召开会议的条件，并且相信这会导致会议取消。
A spokesman for Mr. Trump declined to comment on Mr. Priebus’s role.
特朗普的发言人拒绝置评普利巴斯在此事中的作用。
The Times has been a frequent target of attacks from Mr. Trump, who chafed at some of the unflattering coverage of him during the presidential campaign. He often refers to the “failing” New York Times and has threatened to sue the company for libel over an article about two women who accused him of touching them inappropriately years earlier.
特朗普常常对时报展开攻击，在总统竞选期间，他对时报的一些负面报道非常恼火。他经常说“失败”的《纽约时报》，而且因为时报刊登了一篇两名女子控诉他多年前不适当触碰她们的文章，威胁要起诉该公司诽谤。
Mr. Trump followed his Twitter message on Tuesday about canceling the meeting with two other posts about The Times, one of which said:
本周二，特朗普在Twitter上发消息说已经取消了会议之后，又发了两条和时报有关的消息，其中一条说：
"Perhaps a new meeting will be set up with the @nytimes. In the meantime they continue to cover me inaccurately and with a nasty tone!"
“也许会和@nytimes安排一次新的会议。同时，他们将继续用讨厌的语气对我进行不准确的报道！”
Mr. Trump later posted: “The meeting with the @nytimes is back on at 12:30 today. Look forward to it!”
特朗普后来又发消息说：“与@nytimes的会议重新安排在了今天12:30。期待！”
His meeting at The Times came one day after Mr. Trump attacked television network executives and anchors during an off-the-record meeting at Trump Tower. At that meeting, Mr. Trump said that the networks had been dishonest and that they had missed the signs of his impending victory.
在与时报举行会议的前一天，他在特朗普大厦举行的一次非公开会议上，斥责了电视台高管和主持人。当时特朗普说，这些电视台靠不住，对他即将取得胜利的迹象视而不见。