WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump made three startling economic policy reversals Wednesday, stepping away from pledges he made as a candidate and even policies he supported only days ago.
华盛顿——周三，唐纳德·特朗普总统透露了三项令人震惊的经济政策逆转，偏离了他竞选期间做出的承诺，甚至偏离了他数日前支持的政策。
The shifts suggest that the moderate financiers he brought from Wall Street are eclipsing the White House populist wing led by Stephen K. Bannon, the political strategist who is increasingly being sidelined by the president.
这种转变表明，他从华尔街聘请的温和派金融家的势头正盖过以政治策略师斯蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)为首的白宫民粹主义势力。班农正越来越被总统排斥在外。
In a series of interviews, Trump backtracked from his campaign promises. Trump said he no longer wanted to label China a currency manipulator — a week after telling The Financial Times that the Chinese are the “world champions” when it comes to currency manipulation. The about-face came less than a week after meeting with China’s president, Xi Jinping.
在一系列采访中，特朗普收回了他在竞选期间做出的承诺。特朗普表示，他不再想将中国列为货币操纵国。就在一周前，他在接受《金融时报》(The Financial Times)采访时表示，在操纵货币方面，中国人是“世界冠军”。这种转变发生在与中国国家主席习近平会晤不到一周后。
In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, the president also said he no longer wanted to eliminate the Export-Import Bank. And he said that he might consider reappointing Janet Yellen as chairwoman of the Federal Reserve when her term ends next year.
总统在接受《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)采访时表示，他不再想撤销联邦进出口银行(Export-Import Bank)。他还表示，他可能会考虑在珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)明年任期结束时重新任命她为美联储(Federal Reserve)主席。
All of this is a striking departure from Trump on the campaign trail, where he regularly denounced China and said that Yellen should be “ashamed” of herself because of what he said was her political bias. Trump’s reversals suggest he is moving toward a more mainstream economic approach from the populist arguments he advanced before the election.
所有这一切都明显偏离特朗普竞选时的主张，当时他经常谴责中国，还说耶伦应该为他看到的政治偏见而“感到羞愧”。特朗普的逆转表明，他正从选举前主张的民粹主义观点转向更主流的经济观点。
For his part, Trump asserted in a Twitter post Wednesday night that his agenda remained on track. “One by one, we are keeping our promises — on the border, on energy, on jobs, on regulations. Big changes are happening.”
而特朗普本人则于周三晚间在Twitter上发帖表示，他依然在按计划行事。“我们一个接一个地遵守自己的承诺——在边境、能源、就业机会和监管方面。巨大的变化正在发生。”
Trump began the day with an interview with Fox Business Network in which he backed away from the so-called border-adjustment tax favored by Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans. In an interview published by the Journal midday, Trump revealed his softer approach to China and made another reversal on health care.
特朗普当天上午在接受福克斯商业频道(Fox Business Network)的采访时表示，他将放弃众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)和众议院共和党人支持的所谓的边境调节税。在《华尔街日报》中午发表的采访中，特朗普表示，他将对中国采取更温和的方式，并且透露了在医保问题上的另一项政策逆转。
He said that the government would not continue to pay subsidies to health insurers under Obamacare only days after the administration said it would. Trump said the threat to withhold subsidies was a way to force Democrats to negotiate with him over the future of the Affordable Care Act.
他表示，政府不会再继续给奥巴马医改(Obamacare)覆盖下的医疗保险公司提供补贴，就在几天前，该政府还表示会继续提供补贴。特朗普表示，威胁取消补贴是为了迫使民主党人就《平价医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的未来与他进行谈判。
Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, added an additional major reversal on his behalf: He said on CNBC on Wednesday that the president’s campaign promise to eliminate the national debt was “hyperbole.”
特朗普的预算主管米克·马尔瓦尼(Mick Mulvaney)以总统的名义添加了一项重大逆转：周三，他在CNBC上表示，总统在竞选期间做出的消除国债的承诺是“一种夸张的说法”。