WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald Trump repeatedly said Hillary Clinton’s “lies and deception” rivaled Watergate. He called her “Crooked Hillary.” His most rabid fans chanted it over and over again at huge campaign rallies: “Lock her up!”
华盛顿——侯任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump )曾多次表示，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的“谎言和欺骗”与水门事件不相上下。他称其为“奸人希拉里”。他最狂热的粉丝曾在大型集会活动上一遍遍高呼：“把她关起来！”
But on Tuesday, Trump essentially said: “never mind,” signaling that he does not intend to pursue investigations into his rival’s use of a private email server or the financial operations at the Clinton family’s global foundation.
然而在周二晚上，特朗普却从根本上表示“没关系”。他释放出这样的信号：不打算就他的对手使用私人邮件服务器或对克林顿家族的全球性基金会的财务运作展开调查。
In an appearance on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program, Kellyanne Conway, the former Trump campaign manager and a senior adviser to his transition, said the president-elect wanted to “move beyond the issues of the campaign” and confirmed that Trump did not want his promised Clinton investigations to take place.
之前担任特朗普竞选团队经理、现为交接团队高级顾问的凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)在参加MSNBC电视台的《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)节目时表示，当选总统想“超越竞选期间的议题”，并确认特朗普并不希望他之前承诺过的针对克林顿的调查发生。
“If Donald Trump can help her heal, then perhaps that’s a good thing,” Conway said.
“如果唐纳德·特朗普能帮她疗伤，那或许是一件好事，”康维说。
The decision may help Trump focus on his agenda once he moves into the Oval Office in January, without the potential distraction of an unprecedented legal inquiry by a winning presidential candidate against the person he vanquished.
这个决定或许有助于特朗普在明年1月搬进椭圆办公室之后将注意力放在自己的日程上，不必为一项由当选总统对败选者提出的史无前例的法律调查分心。
But it could deeply disappoint many of the voters whose anger against Clinton he helped stoke throughout a bitter and divisive campaign. During the second debate between the two candidates, Trump turned to Clinton and vowed that “if I win I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation, because there’s never been so many lies, so much deception.”
但这会让许多选民感到十分失望。在激烈的、制造分裂的整个竞选活动中，特朗普帮助激发了这些人对克林顿的愤怒。在两位候选人的第二场辩论期间，特朗普曾面对克林顿发誓，“如果我赢了竞选，我会让我的司法部长派一位特别检察官调查你的情况，因为从来没有这么多的谎言，这么多的欺骗。”
And the new president’s decision is also likely to frustrate investigators at the FBI, who are fiercely protective of their independence to follow the facts that they uncover. A declaration from Trump that he wanted inquiries about Clinton to stop could be seen as unwarranted presidential meddling into an FBI investigation.
新总统的决定还有可能让联邦调查局(FBI)的调查人员感到挫败，后者极为保护他们追查自己发现的事实的独立性。特朗普宣布他希望停止对克林顿的调查，可以被看作总统对FBI调查的不当介入。
Although the email investigation is closed, the FBI still has an open inquiry into the Clinton Foundation. That inquiry was begun after the publication in 2015 of the book “Clinton Cash,” which asserted that some foreign entities gave money to the foundation in return for State Department favors when Hillary Clinton was in office. The Clintons have denied those assertions.
尽管邮件调查已经结束，但FBI还在对克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)进行公开调查。这项调查是在2015年《克林顿现金》(Clinton Cash)一书出版之后开始的。这本书坚称，在希拉里·克林顿担任国务卿期间，有一些境外实体给克林顿基金会提供资金，以换取国务院的特殊照顾。克林顿一家一直否认这样的说法。
If, as president, Trump ordered the FBI director, James B. Comey, to close the inquiry, Comey could choose to rebuff him. To insulate FBI directors from political pressure, they are given a 10-year term. The president can fire a director for cause, as President Bill Clinton did in 1993 after a Department of Justice investigation uncovered ethical abuses by Director William S. Sessions.
如果特朗普作为总统命令联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)终止调查，科米可以选择断然拒绝。为了让FBI局长免受政治压力影响，他们被给予了十年任期。总统可以因为一些理由辞退FBI局长，就像比尔·克林顿总统在1993年司法部调查发现当时的FBI局长威廉·S·塞申斯(William S. Sessions)存在道德违规行为之后所做的。
Word of Trump’s intentions regarding Hillary Clinton came as the president-elect began another day of interviewing potential Cabinet officials. In a post on Twitter, Trump said that “great meetings will take place today at Trump Tower concerning the formation of the people who will run our government for the next 8 years,” apparently assuming he will serve two terms.
特朗普在又一个面试内阁可能人选的日子里，发表了对希拉里·克林顿有关意图的言论。特朗普在Twitter上发帖表示，“特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)今天要发生重要的会面，它关系到哪些人将在未来八年里管理我们的政府”，显然假定他会有两个总统任期。
People close to the transition said Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City who had been a leading candidate to be secretary of state, is now in the running to become the country’s director of national intelligence. That position would put him in charge of coordinating the various military and civilian intelligence-gathering operations.
了解交接情况的人士表示，前纽约市长鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)目前正参与竞逐，有望出任国家情报局(National Intelligence)局长。他之前一直是国务卿的主要候选人之一。如果担任情报局局长一职，他将负责协调军方和非军方的各种情报收集活动。