WASHINGTON — President Donald J. Trump said early Tuesday that he had an “absolute right” to share with top Russian officials information about an Islamic State threat during a White House meeting last week.
华盛顿——唐纳德·J·特朗普总统在周二早些时候表示，自己有“绝对权利”与俄罗斯高级官员分享关于伊斯兰国威胁的情报，上周特朗普曾在白宫与这些官员见面。
But he did not precisely address reports from multiple news outlets that he had disclosed highly classified information to the Russian officials, possibly jeopardizing a relationship with an intelligence-sharing ally.
但他没有确切地回答多家新闻机构关于他向俄罗斯官员披露高度机密的情报、可能危及美国与分享该情报盟友的关系的报道。
Mr. Trump spoke about highly classified intelligence in a meeting with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and the Russian ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak, last week, a current and a former American government official told The New York Times on Monday. The news was first reported by The Washington Post, and soon after, many organizations — including Buzzfeed, Reuters, The Wall Street Journal and The Times — quickly published their own accounts of the disclosure.
美国政府的一位现任和一位前任官员周一告诉《纽约时报》，特朗普上周与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V.Lavrov)、俄罗斯驻美国大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)会面时，谈到了高度机密的情报。《华盛顿邮报》率先报道了这条消息，不久后，多家新闻机构——包括Buzzfeed、路透社、《华尔街日报》和时报——很快也对披露情报的事情做了自己的报道。
Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, H. R. McMaster, issued a statement denying that Mr. Trump had disclosed intelligence methods or sources. But The Post and the other news organizations did not report that he had done so. Instead, they focused on the breach of espionage etiquette; the possibility that American allies might be discouraged from sharing intelligence with the United States; and Mr. Trump’s tendency to go off-script, at times to the chagrin of his advisers.
特朗普的国家安全顾问H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)发表声明，否认特朗普透露了情报的获取方法或来源。但《华盛顿邮报》及其他新闻机构并未在报道中称他这样做了。这些报道关注的是特朗普违反了间谍规矩的行为，再就是美国的盟友可能会因此不愿与美国分享情报的可能性，以及特朗普随便讲话的性情，这有时颇令他的顾问们烦恼。
Mr. McMaster told reporters on Monday that The Post’s account was “false,” an assertion that Mr. Trump himself appeared to undermine on Tuesday. It has become something of a pattern: On Thursday, Mr. Trump told NBC News that the F.B.I.’s investigation of his campaign’s ties to Russia had been a factor in his decision to fire the bureau’s director, James B. Comey. That undercut his vice president’s assertion that the two were unrelated.
麦克马斯特周一对记者说，《华盛顿邮报》的描述是“假的”，而特朗普本人似乎在周二挖了这个说法的墙角。这已经有点成为一种模式：上周四，特朗普对NBC新闻说，联邦调查局（简称FBI）对他的竞选班子与俄罗斯的关系的调查，在他做出开除FBI局长詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)的决定中是一个因素。这削弱了他自己的副总统称这两件事没有关系的说法。
The Post reported that Mr. Trump had described details of an Islamic State terrorist threat related to the use of laptop computers on aircraft.
《华盛顿邮报》报道说，特朗普详细描述了一个与在飞机上使用笔记本电脑有关的来自伊斯兰国恐怖分子的威胁。
Although Mr. Trump’s tweets on Tuesday did not mention laptops, he said he had shared “facts pertaining to terrorism and airline flight safety” with Russian officials. He said he did so for “humanitarian reasons,” adding, “plus I want Russia to greatly step up their fight against ISIS & terrorism.”
尽管特朗普周二的推文中没有提笔记本电脑，但他表示，他与俄罗斯官员分享了“与恐怖主义和飞机安全有关的事实”。他说，他这样做是出于“人道主义的原因”，并补充说，“加上我想让俄罗斯大大加强反ISIS和恐怖主义的斗争。”
Last week, American officials said they might move to ban laptops from carry-on baggage on all flights from Europe to the United States — a change that would inconvenience many business travelers, who would be forced to check computers in their luggage.
上周，美国官员表示，他们可能会在所有从欧洲到美国的航班上禁止在手提式行李中放电脑的做法，这样做会给许多商务旅客带来不便，他们将被迫把电脑放在托运的行李中。
The issue is scheduled to be the subject of a closed-door meeting on Wednesday afternoon in Brussels between Elaine C. Duke, the deputy secretary of Homeland Security, and Dimitris Avramopoulos, the European Union’s commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship.
这个问题是美国国土安全部副部长伊莱恩·C·杜克(Elaine C. Duke)与欧盟移民、内政及公民事务专员迪米里斯·阿夫拉莫普洛斯(Dimitris Avramopoulos)原定于周三下午在布鲁塞尔举行的一个非公开会议上讨论的议题。
Also on Tuesday, a spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry denied that Mr. Trump had given classified information to Russian officials — and denigrated American news reports of the disclosure as “fake.”
俄罗斯外交部发言人也在周二否认了特朗普特向俄罗斯官员提供机密情报的说法，并把美国新闻机构对泄密的报道贬为“假的”。
“I just landed in Madrid,” the spokeswoman, Maria V. Zakharova, wrote on Facebook during a work trip to Spain. “I turned on the phone, and there were dozens of messages. ‘Maria Vladimirovna, is it true Trump revealed the most important secret?’ ”
“我刚在马德里降落，”发言人玛利亚·V·扎哈罗娃(Maria V. Zakharova)在去西班牙出差的途中在Facebook上写道。“我一打开手机，就收到了几十条短信。‘玛丽亚·弗拉基米罗夫娜，特朗普披露了最重要的秘密，是真的吗？’”
Ms. Zakharova called the report “the latest fake,” and disparaged the newspapers that published it. “Guys, you are again reading American newspapers? You should not read them. They can be used in various ways, but there’s no need to read them — lately, this is not only harmful, but dangerous.”
扎哈罗娃称这个报道是“最新的假新闻”，并对发表这条新闻的报纸出言不逊。“伙计们，你们又看美国报纸了吗？你们不应该读这些报纸。这些报纸有各种用途，但没有必要读它们——最近的报道不仅有害，而且有危险。”
She did not specify in what ways the newspapers should be used.
她没有具体说明这些报纸有哪些用途。
Ms. Zakharova said she had predicted last Thursday, the day after the meeting, that American news organizations would be preparing a “sensation” about the meeting. The news media’s plan included, she wrote, publishing secret photographs to “give this latest fake grounding and legitimacy.”
扎哈罗娃表示，上周四，也就是特朗普与俄罗斯官员会晤后的第二天，她曾预测，美国新闻机构将给会晤准备了一个“轰动”报道。她写道，新闻传媒的计划包括发表秘密照片，“给这条最新的假新闻提供背景和合法性。”
“This part of the information campaign we destroyed, having published photographs in accordance with all laws of professional ethics.”
“我们摧毁了信息战的这个部分，因为我们按照所有的职业道德规范发表了照片。”
She did not elaborate.
她没有详细说明。
Both Russia and the United States are battling Islamic State, but they are also backing opposite sides in the Syrian civil war.
虽然俄罗斯和美国都在与伊斯兰国作战，但两国在叙利亚内战中支持不同的对立面。