Now that Donald J. Trump is the presumptive presidential nominee, a parade of prominent Republican leaders is breaking with the traditions and rituals of party unity and offering him a blunt message:
唐纳德·J·特朗普成为总统候选人已基本可以确定，共和党的一系列主要领导人正在打破党内团结的传统和老规矩，向他发出一个直截了当的信息：
Nope. Never. I can’t. I won’t.
不。绝不。我不能。我不会。
In a flurry of social media posts and interviews over the last 24 hours, these Republicans raced to distance themselves from Mr. Trump, delivering a remarkable rebuke to him at precisely the moment when parties usually coalesce around a candidacy.
在过去24小时里，在社交媒体帖子和采访中，这些共和党人竞相表态，与特朗普拉开距离，就在政党通常团结在候选人周围的时刻，对他发出引人注目的批评。
Mark Salter, a longtime strategist for Senator John McCain of Arizona, sounded resigned and disgusted as he said the unthinkable: He was now prepared to back Hillary Clinton.
亚利桑那州联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩的长期战略师马克·索尔特(Mark Salter)说出了让人难以想象的话：他现在准备支持希拉里·克林顿，这话听上去既无可奈何、又气愤。
“The GOP is going to nominate for President a guy who reads the National Enquirer and thinks it’s on the level,” he wrote on Twitter late Tuesday. “I’m with her.”
“共和党即将提名的总统候选人是个读《国家询问报》(National Enquirer)并认为这个八卦小报可信的人，”索尔特周二晚在Twitter上写道。“我支持她。”
The dissenters, who range from wizened elders to younger strategists and even elected officials, are loudly and publicly proclaiming their unwillingness to support Mr. Trump.
这些持不同意见者正在大声地、公开地宣布他们不愿意支持特朗普，他们中既有饱经风霜的老政客，也有年轻的战略家，甚至还有民选官员。
Many have expressed reservations about him in the past, but left open the possibility they might back him in the future. Now they are forcefully foreclosing that option.
其中的许多人过去曾表示对特朗普有所保留，但仍会考虑他们也许在未来支持他的可能性。现在，他们正在强有力排除这种可能性。
“I think Donald Trump has proven to be unbalanced and uniquely unqualified to be president. I won’t support him,” Stuart Stevens, the top strategist for Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, said in an interview on Tuesday night. “Everyone has to make their own choice. I think Trump is despicable and will prove to be a disaster for the party. I’d urge everyone to continue to oppose him.”
“我认为，唐纳德·特朗普已被证明是一个心理不平衡的人，完全不具备当总统的资格。我不会支持他，”斯图尔特·史蒂文斯(Stuart Stevens)在周二晚接受记者采访时说，他曾为罗姆尼2012年总统竞选做战略策划。“每个人都必须做出自己的选择。我认为特朗普令人厌恶，将被证明是共和党的灾难。我呼吁大家继续反对他。”
Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, an up-and-coming Tea Party Republican many view as a future leader of the party, wasted little time disassociating himself from the current unofficial one.
内布拉斯加州联邦参议员本·萨瑟(Ben Sasse)几乎在第一时间宣布，他要与目前仍非官方的提名人拉开距离，萨瑟是一个有前途的共和党茶党派人士，很多人把他看作是共和党的一名未来领导人。
Alluding to an essay he wrote in February, in which he denounced Mr. Trump as a destructive force bent on dividing the country, Mr. Sasse answered those who asked if Mr. Trump’s decisive victory in Indiana on Tuesday “changes anything for me.”
在今年2月份写的一篇文章中，萨瑟曾斥责特朗普是一个执意分裂国家的破坏性力量，萨瑟在回答一些人的问题时间接地提到该文，那些人问他，如果特朗普周二在印第安纳州取得决定性胜利的话，“是否对我有所改变。”
“The answer is simple,” he said: “No.”
“答案只有一个字，”萨瑟说。“否。”
Perhaps the most startling sentiments belonged to Republicans who said they would cross party lines to avoid elevating Mr. Trump.
也许某些共和党人表达的情绪最令人吃惊，他们表示，为了避免让特朗普当选，他们将跨越党派界限。
A terse Twitter message, “#ImWithHer,” from Ben Howe, a contributing editor to the conservative website Redstate.com, immediately went viral. In a series of colorful follow-up posts, Mr. Howe despaired over the fate of his party with Mr. Trump as its nominee.
本·贺维(Ben Howe)发的一个简短Twitter信息“#我支持她”(#ImWithHer)马上在网上风传起来，贺维是保守派网站Redstate.com的特约编辑。在一系列多彩的跟帖中，贺维表达了他对共和党命运的绝望，因为特朗普成了该党的总统提名人。
“Goodbye @GOP,” Mr. Howe wrote, adding: “I’m drinking wine directly out of the bottle right now. #NeverTrump.”
“别了，@GOP，”贺维写道，并称：“我现在是直接用酒瓶子喝酒。#绝不要特朗普(#NeverTrump)。”（GOP是共和党别名Grand Old Party的缩写，译注。）
Steve Deace, a conservative radio show host in Iowa, said he would never waver from his pledge to oppose Mr. Trump to the end.
爱荷华州的一个保守派电台节目主持人史蒂夫·迪斯(Steve Deace)说，绝不对自己的承诺动摇，将坚决反对特朗普，直到最后。
“You can sign my name in blood,” he wrote on Twitter.
“可以用血签上我的名字”，他在Twitter上写道。
As Republicans raced to social media to declare their unshakable opposition to Mr. Trump, some expressed hope that a national movement might still arise to stop him; others alluded to the harsh judgments of history and said they wanted to be on the right side of it.
随着共和党人竞相在社交媒体上宣布自己不可动摇的反对特朗普的立场，有些人表示了一种希望，也许仍能发起一个全国运动来阻止特朗普；还有人间接提到历史评判的严酷，表示他们希望站在历史的正确的一边。
“I will never vote for @realDonaldTrump. Join me and add your name at NeverTrump.com,” wrote Patrick Ruffini, the founder of a Washington political media firm.
“我绝不会投票支持@realDonaldTrump。请加入我的行列，到NeverTrump.com网站添上你的名字，”华盛顿一家政治媒体公司的创始人帕特里克·鲁菲尼(Patrick Ruffini)写道。
It was difficult to say how many top Republicans intended to break with the party’s presumptive nominee. Mr. Trump on Tuesday night extended an olive branch to his detractors and asserted, without offering any names, that many of those who had mocked him in the past were now privately pledging their support.
还很难说会有多少高级共和党人打算与党的推定提名人划清界限。特朗普周二晚向自己的批评者伸出了橄榄枝，并宣称，许多过去嘲笑过他的人现已私下承诺支持他，但没有提供任何人名。
“They are calling now,” he said, with characteristic bravado. “And they are calling to say, ‘We’d love to get on the train.’ The Trump train. We have a lot of people coming.”
“他们都在给我打电话，”他用特有的虚张声势口吻说。“他们打来电话说，‘我们非常想搭上火车。’特朗普火车。我们有很多的人来了。”
Tony Fratto, a former deputy press secretary to President George W. Bush, was not among them. On Tuesday night, he reiterated his deep distaste for Mr. Trump.
乔治·W·布什总统的原新闻副秘书长托尼·弗拉托(Tony Fratto)不在其中。周二晚，他重申了自己对特朗普的深深反感。
“For the thick-headed,” he wrote, “#NeverTrump means never ever ever ever ever under any circumstances as long as I have breath never Trump. Get it?”
他写道，“对死脑筋来说，#绝不要特朗普意味着绝不，永远、永远、永远、永远不会在任何条件下，只要我还有一口气，绝不要特朗普。明白吗？”
Got it.
明白。
Several well-known Republicans, sounding startled and saddened by the turn of events, publicly agonized over their decisions on Tuesday.
几位知名共和党人听上去对事态的发展有点吃惊，也有点悲哀，他们在周二公开地苦苦思索着自己的决定。
Lanhee J. Chen, a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Romney in 2012 and to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida in this campaign, said he was looking for options outside the party. Mr. Trump’s victory in Indiana, Mr. Chen wrote on Twitter, “raises seriousness and urgency of discussions about third-party alternative.”
陈仁宜(Lanhee J. Chen)曾在2012年当过罗姆尼的外交政策顾问，也是佛罗里达州联邦参议员马可·鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)这次竞选的外交政策顾问，陈仁宜说，他一直在共和党外寻找可能。陈仁宜在Twitter上写道，特朗普在印第安纳州的胜利，“提升了讨论两党以外选择的严重性和紧迫性。”
Corey Adair, a former director of the Nevada Republican Party, went further, saying his disdain for Mr. Trump had hardened into a firm rejection.
曾任内华达州共和党领导人的科里·阿代尔(Corey Adair)更进一步，他说，他对特朗普的不屑已变成为对特朗普的坚决摒弃。
He mocked supporters of Mr. Trump, who he said have taunted him for some time. “You’ll come around,” he wrote, mimicking their pleas.
他嘲笑特朗普的支持者，称他们挑逗自己已有一段时间了。阿代尔模仿那些人的口吻写道，“你会回来的。”