WASHINGTON — A business associate of President Donald Trump promised in 2015 to engineer a real estate deal with the aid of the president of Russia, Vladimir Putin, that he said would help Trump win the presidency.
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普总统的一名商务助理曾于2015年承诺，要在俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京帮助下安排一项房地产交易，他说此项交易将为特朗普赢得总统选举提供助力。
The associate, Felix Sater, wrote a series of emails to Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen, in which he boasted about his ties to Putin. He predicted that building a Trump Tower in Moscow would highlight Trump’s savvy negotiating skills and be a political boon to his candidacy.
这个名叫费利克斯·塞特(Felix Sater)的助理，在写给特朗普的律师迈克尔·科恩(Michael Cohen)的一系列电子邮件中，吹嘘了自己和普京的关系。他预计，在莫斯科建造一栋特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)，将突显特朗普精明的谈判技巧，并从政治上为特朗普作为候选人的地位加分。
“Our boy can become president of the USA and we can engineer it,” Sater wrote in an email. “I will get all of Putins team to buy in on this, I will manage this process.”
“咱们这位爷能当上总统，咱们策划起来，”塞特在一封电子邮件中写道。“我能把普京团队的人都动员起来，我来安排这事怎么推进。”
The emails show that, from the earliest months of Trump’s campaign, some of his associates viewed close ties with Moscow as a political advantage. Those ties are now under investigation by the Justice Department and multiple congressional committees.
电子邮件显示，从特朗普参选的最初几个月起，他的一些助手就把和莫斯科的密切关系视为一种政治优势。现在，司法部和多个国会委员会正对这种关系展开调查。
U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that the Russian government interfered with the 2016 presidential election to try to help Trump. Investigators want to know whether anyone on Trump’s team was part of that process.
美国情报部门已判定，俄罗斯政府曾干预2016年的美国总统选举，试图以此帮助特朗普。调查人员想要弄清，特朗普团队中是否有任何人卷入此事。
Sater, a Russian immigrant, said he had lined up financing for the Trump Tower deal with VTB Bank, a Russian bank that was under U.S. sanctions for involvement in Moscow’s efforts to undermine democracy in Ukraine. In another email, Sater envisioned a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Moscow.
身为俄罗斯移民的塞特说，他曾和俄罗斯外贸银行(VTB)一道，安排特朗普大厦项目的融资事宜。那家俄罗斯银行因涉莫斯科动摇乌克兰民主政体的行动而遭到过美国的制裁。在另一封邮件中，塞特畅想了在莫斯科举行的剪彩仪式。
“I will get Putin on this program and we will get Donald elected,” Sater wrote.
“我会说服普京参与这一计划，我们会让特朗普当选，”塞特写道。
Sater said he was eager to show video clips to his Russian contacts of instances of Trump speaking glowingly about Russia, and said he would arrange for Putin to praise Trump’s business acumen.
塞特说他热切地想要向自己的俄罗斯联系人展示一些视频片段，让他们看看特朗普盛赞俄罗斯的样子。他还说会安排普京称赞特朗普的商业头脑。
“If he says it we own this election,” Sater wrote. “Americas most difficult adversary agreeing that Donald is a good guy to negotiate.”
“如果他这么说了，我们在这场选举中就胜券在握了，”塞特写道。“因为就连美国最难对付的对手都承认，唐纳德是一把谈判好手。”
There is no evidence in the emails that Sater delivered on his promises, and one email suggests that Sater overstated his Russian ties. In January 2016, Cohen wrote to Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, asking for help restarting the Trump Tower project, which had stalled. But Cohen did not appear to have Peskov’s direct email, and instead wrote to a general inbox for press inquiries.
这些邮件中没有证据显示塞特履行了自己的承诺；而且有一封邮件表明，塞特夸大了他在俄罗斯的关系网。2016年1月，科恩致信普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)，请对方帮助重启特朗普大厦项目，但科恩似乎没有佩斯科夫本人的电邮地址，于是发信到一个供媒体垂询的公共邮箱。
The project never got government permits or financing, and died weeks later.
该项目从未获得政府的批准或融资，数周后胎死腹中。
“To be clear, the Trump Organization has never had any real estate holdings or interests in Russia,” the Trump Organization said Monday in a statement. Trump, however, signed a nonbinding “letter of intent” for the project in 2015. Cohen said he discussed the project with Trump three times.
“特朗普集团在俄罗斯从未有过任何房地产方面的股份或利益，特此澄清，”特朗普集团周一发声明称。不过，特朗普于2015年签署过关于该项目的一份无约束力的“意向书”。科恩说他和特朗普就这一项目进行过三次讨论。
The Trump Organization on Monday turned over emails to the House Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russian meddling in the presidential election and whether anyone in Trump’s campaign was involved. Some of the emails were obtained by The Times.
周一，特朗普集团把相关邮件提交给了众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)。后者正在调查俄罗斯干预美国总统选举一事，以及特朗普竞选团队中是否有任何人参与其中。时报拿到了其中一些邮件。
The emails obtained by The Times do not include any responses from Cohen to Sater’s messages.
时报获得的邮件并不包含科恩就塞特发来的讯息作出的任何回应。
In a statement Monday that was also provided to Congress, Cohen suggested that he viewed Sater’s comments as puffery. “He has sometimes used colorful language and has been prone to ‘salesmanship,'” the statement said. “I ultimately determined that the proposal was not feasible and never agreed to make a trip to Russia.”
科恩在周一提交给国会的一份声明中表示，在他看来塞特的说辞有夸大的成分。“他有时会使用丰富多彩的语言，显出一股‘推销员范儿’，”声明称。“我最终判定这一方案并不可行，从未同意前往俄罗斯。”
The emails obtained by The Times make no mention of Russian efforts to damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign or the hacking of Democrats’ emails. Trump, who began praising Putin years before the presidential campaign, has said there was no collusion with Russian officials. Previously released emails, however, revealed that his campaign was willing to receive damaging information about Clinton from Russian sources.
时报获得的邮件未提及俄罗斯破坏希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选活动的努力，或民主党人的电子邮件遭黑客窃取一事。早在参选总统多年前就开始称赞普京的特朗普称，不存在与俄罗斯官员串谋的情况。不过，早前泄露的邮件显示，他的竞选团队愿意通过俄罗斯信源获取关于克林顿的黑材料。
Sater said it would be “pretty cool to get a USA President elected” and said he desired to be the ambassador to the Bahamas. “That my friend is the home run I want out of this,” he wrote.
塞特说“把人推上美国总统宝座”会是“一件很酷的事”，还说自己渴望成为驻巴哈马大使。“这个，跟你说，就是我在这事上的终极目标，”他写道。
Sater — a former FBI informant who is famous for having once smashed a martini glass stem into another man’s face — has maintained a relationship with Cohen over the years. The two men have spent decades operating in the world of New York commercial real estate, where the sources of funding can be murky.
给FBI当过线人的塞特，曾经因为往一个人脸上砸马提尼酒杯的杯柄而闻名。多年来，他和科恩一直保持着联系。两人混迹于纽约商业地产圈多年，在这个行业里，资金来源有时会十分可疑。
Sater’s lawyer did not respond to messages seeking comment.
塞特的律师未回应请求置评的讯息。
Sater was a broker for the Trump Organization for several years, paid to deliver real estate deals. A company he worked for, Bayrock, played a role in financing the Trump SoHo Hotel in New York. Sater and Cohen even worked together on a peace plan for Ukraine and Russia that they sought to get in front of Trump’s national security adviser this year.
塞特给特朗普集团当过若干年的掮客，受雇促成房地产交易。他曾供职的贝罗克公司(Bayrock)参与过纽约特朗普休南酒店(Trump SoHo Hotel)项目的融资。塞特和科恩甚至联手推动过一项旨在让俄罗斯和乌克兰达成和解的方案，于今年寻求将方案提交给特朗普的国家安全顾问。
As a broker for the Trump Organization, Sater had an incentive to overstate his business-making acumen. He presents himself in his emails as so influential in Russia that he helped arrange a 2006 trip that Trump’s daughter, Ivanka, took to Moscow.
作为特朗普集团的掮客，塞特有夸大其交易撮合能力的动力。他在邮件中把自己塑造成一个在俄罗斯非常有影响力的人物，说自己曾帮忙安排特朗普之女伊万卡(Ivanka)2006年的莫斯科之行。
“I arranged for Ivanka to sit in Putins private chair at his desk and office in the Kremlin,” he said.
“我安排伊万卡坐上了普京桌旁的私人座椅，进了他的克里姆林宫办公室，”他说。
Ivanka Trump said she had no involvement in the discussions about the Moscow deal other than to recommend possible architects. In a statement, she said that during the 2006 trip she took “a brief tour of Red Square and the Kremlin” as a tourist. She said it is possible she sat in Putin’s chair during that tour but she did not recall it. She said she has not seen or spoken to Sater since 2010. “I have never met President Vladimir Putin,” she said.
伊万卡·特朗普说，她没介入关于莫斯科的这项交易的讨论，只是推荐过建筑师人选。她在一份声明中表示，2006年的莫斯科之行期间，她以游客的身份“短暂游览过红场和克里姆林宫”。她说自己有可能坐过普京的椅子，但已经没印象了。她说自从2010年以来她便没见过塞特，也没与其交谈过。“我从未见过弗拉基米尔·普京总统，”她说。
The Times reported this year on the plan for a Trump Tower in Moscow, which never materialized. On Sunday, The Washington Post reported the existence of the correspondence between Sater and Cohen, but not its content.
时报今年报道了始终未能实现的莫斯科特朗普大厦计划。华盛顿邮报周日报道了塞特和科恩之间通信往来的存在，但未涉及其内容。
Spokespeople for the House Intelligence Committee had no comment on the documents.
众议院情报委员会的发言人未就这些文件置评。
Cohen has denied any wrongdoing, and the Trump Organization turned over the emails to the House as part of his ongoing cooperation with the investigation.
科恩否认自己的行为有任何失当之处；作为他配合进行相关调查的一部分，特朗普集团将电邮提交给了众议院。
This month, Cohen’s lawyer, Stephen M. Ryan, wrote a letter to congressional investigators that contained what he said was a point-by-point refutation of a dossier suggesting that Cohen colluded with Russian operatives. That dossier, compiled by a retired British spy and briefed to Trump during the transition, was published online early this year.
本月，科恩的律师史蒂芬·M·瑞安(Stephen M. Ryan)给国会的调查人员写了一封信，信中对一份暗示科恩与俄罗斯特工串谋的卷宗进行了他所谓的逐点反驳。于今年早些时候发布在网上的那份卷宗，由一名英国退休间谍编撰而成，有人在政府换届过渡期间向特朗普汇报了卷宗的内容。
“We do not believe that the committee should give credence to or perpetuate any of the allegations relating to Mr. Cohen unless the committee can obtain independent and reliable corroboration,” Ryan wrote.
“我们认为委员会不该听信或固化关于科恩先生的任何指控，除非委员会能获得独立、可靠的佐证，”瑞安写道。