WASHINGTON — Jared Kushner will be named a senior White House adviser to his father-in-law, Donald Trump, cementing the New York real estate executive’s role as a powerful and at times decisive influence on the president-elect.
华盛顿——贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)被任命为其岳父特朗普的白宫高级顾问，此举将进一步强化这位纽约房地产大佬对特朗普的影响，有时候这种影响甚至是决定性的。
Kushner, who married Trump’s daughter Ivanka in 2009, is closer to Donald Trump than any other adviser, and has provided input on all of his father-in-law’s hiring decisions. He is “the first among equals,” in the words of one former campaign official.
库什纳在2009年与特朗普的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)结婚，与特朗普的关系比任何顾问都更亲近，而且他已经为岳父所有的聘用决定都提供了意见。用一名前竞选官员的说法，他是“同侪之首”。
Kushner is expected to play the same role in the White House, with counselors Stephen K. Bannon and Kellyanne Conway providing the president-elect with strategic, messaging and communications advice, and Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee and the incoming chief of staff, running day-to-day operations in the West Wing.
预计库什纳将在白宫发挥同样的作用，同史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)和凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)一道，为特朗普提供战略、信息和沟通方面的建议，而共和党全国委员会主席、新任幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)将主持总统办公室的日常运行。
The scion of a prominent Democratic family active in New Jersey politics, Kushner, 35, has no governmental experience and had never played an active role in a campaign before he began to advise Trump. As his father-in-law began to rise in the primary contests, Kushner, a Harvard graduate, occupied a steadying, stabilizing role. And he underwent something of a personal political transformation, coming to believe in Trump’s fiery and conservative economic message after spending months crisscrossing red and swing-state America with the campaign.
库什纳现年35岁，来自一个活跃在新泽西政坛的知名民主党家族，此前没有政府工作经验，在为特朗普提供建议之前，他也从未在一场竞选活动中发挥过积极作用。随着岳父在初选中崛起，毕业于哈佛大学的库什纳起到了稳定局面的作用。他经历了个人的政治转变：在竞选活动中，有几个月的时间里，他在红州和摇摆州穿梭，之后开始相信特朗普激昂又保守的经济主张。
Kushner’s new role became public a day after the disclosure that he would resign as chief executive of Kushner Cos., his family’s real estate firm, and divest himself of “substantial assets,” including the company’s flagship property at 666 Fifth Ave. Trump is scheduled to hold a news conference on Wednesday to discuss his plans for dealing with myriad conflicts of interest raised by his sprawling international development, hotel, branding and entertainment empire.
库什纳在其新角色公开的一天前，表示将辞去家族房地产企业库什纳公司(Kushner Cos.)的首席执行官职位，并剥离自己的“大量资产”，包括公司的旗舰物业第五大道666号。特朗普计划在周三举行新闻发布会，讨论将如何处理他庞大的国际物业、酒店、品牌和娱乐帝国引起的无数利益冲突的计划。
Since speculation began about Kushner’s possible role in the White House, some ethics experts had questioned whether it would be legal under federal anti-nepotism laws. But Norman Eisen, who was the chief White House ethics lawyer under President Barack Obama, said he did not believe Kushner’s appointment would violate those laws.
自从人们开始猜测库什纳在白宫可能会扮演什么角色以来，一些伦理专家就提出了质疑：根据联邦反裙带法，这么做究竟是否合法。但奥巴马总统白宫伦理律师诺曼·艾森(Norman Eisen)说，他认为库什纳的任命不会违反这些法律。
Eisen said he thought Kushner’s decision to divest from his family business raised the pressure on Trump to follow suit, something the president-elect has been reluctant to do.
艾森说，他认为库什纳从家族企业中抽离，将增加特朗普也要这么做的压力，特朗普之前并不愿意这么做。
“What we are seeing now is, after the initial chaos of the Trump transition, that his nominees are now complying with the requirements of the law,” said Eisen, who also served as Obama’s ambassador to the Czech Republic. “Rex Tillerson has retired from Exxon and now Kushner is doing the same,” he added, referring to Trump’s nominee for secretary of state. “So it’s going to be hard for Trump to ignore 40 years of precedent and not do the same.”
“我们现在看到的情况是，虽然特朗普过渡过程最初比较混乱，但他的提名人现在符合法律要求了，”曾担任奥巴马驻捷克共和国大使的艾森说道。“雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)已经从埃克森(Exxon)引退，现在库什纳也在做同样的事情，”他说的蒂勒森是特朗普提名的国务卿。“所以特朗普很难无视40年的先例，不这么做。”