Donald Trump insisted on Thursday that he will not cede the right to contest the outcome of the presidential election even as Republicans expressed concern that he could upend America’s tradition of peaceful power transfers by refusing to abide by the result and Democrats assailed him for being a threat to the political system.
周四，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)坚称自己不会放弃质疑总统选举结果的权利，共和党人担心，此举可能会破坏权力和平转移的美国传统，而民主党则抨击他是对美国政治制度的威胁。
Trump’s intransigence follows another rocky performance in the third and final presidential debate in which he lashed out at Hillary Clinton, calling her a “nasty woman,” and continued to espouse conspiracy theories about how the race was rigged against him. Trump did make clear that there was one result that he would not challenge.
特朗普做出这番顽固表态之前，在第三场，也就是最后一场总统辩论中，表现还是不稳定，他猛烈抨击希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，称她是“歹毒的女人”，还继续采用阴谋论的说法，称有人操纵这次总统竞选来对付他。不过特朗普也明确表示，有一种结果他是不会挑战的。
“I will totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential election — if I win,” Trump said to cheers at a rally in Delaware, Ohio.
“我会全心接受这场伟大而且具有历史意义的总统选举的结果——如果我赢了，”特朗普在俄亥俄州特拉华的一场集会上说的这番话，引来一阵欢呼。
He did, however, try to ease concerns that he was planning to throw the country into postelection turmoil.
不过，他也的确试图缓解人们担心他打算让整个国家陷入选后动荡的担忧。
“Of course I would accept a clear election result, but I would also reserve my right to contest or file a legal challenge in the case of a questionable result,” Trump said. “I will follow and abide by all the rules and traditions of all of the many candidates who came before me, always.”
“当然，我会接受一个清楚的选举结果，而对于令人生疑的结果，我也会保留质疑和提出法律挑战的权力，”特朗普说。“我将遵照并履行之前很多候选人遵行的各种规则和传统，和过去一样。”
But Clinton and her running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia, both said Trump’s defiant comments were far beyond the political mainstream. Clinton, who called Trump’s remarks “horrifying” during the debate, repeated that criticism on board her campaign plane in Las Vegas, and said Trump was bucking centuries of American tradition.
但克林顿和她的竞选搭档弗吉尼亚州参议员蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)都说，特朗普这种挑衅的言辞远远超出了政界主流的做法。克林顿在辩论中表示，特朗普的言论“很可怕”，并且在拉斯维加斯自己的竞选飞机上再次重申了这个批评，她还说特朗普在顽强抵抗几个世纪来的美国传统。
The uproar over Trump’s willingness to abide by the results of a democratic election threatens to further unravel a candidacy already in sharp decline. Trump has fallen well behind Clinton in the polls after three strong debate performances, and as Trump has faced escalating accusations that he sexually assaulted women.
特朗普是否愿意接受一次民主选举的结果所引发的轩然大波，可能会进一步影响他已经急剧下滑的选情。在三场精彩的辩论之后，各项民调表明，特朗普已经大大落后于克林顿，而且面临着逐渐升级的性侵指控。
A new accuser came forward on Thursday and described an encounter in 1998 in which Trump grabbed her arm and touched her breast. The woman, Karena Virginia, was the 10th to accuse Trump of inappropriate sexual advances since the release of a tape on which he boasted of such behavior.
本周四又出现了一名新的指控者，称1998年特朗普有一次见到她时，曾抓住她的胳膊，触摸她的胸部。自从特朗普夸耀自己不当性举动的录音曝光之后，这个名叫卡伦纳·弗吉尼亚(Karena Virginia)的女子是站出来指责特朗普这种行为的第10个女性。