Donald Trump is looking a bit like King Lear these days.
这些天唐纳德·特朗普看上去和李尔王有几分像。
In the wake of reports that he shared classified intelligence with Russian officials and allegations that he asked James Comey to stop the investigation into Michael Flynn, the president’s mood “has become sour and dark, and he has turned against most of his aides — even his son-in-law, Jared Kushner — describing them in a fury as ‘incompetent,’” Glenn Thrush and Maggie Haberman reported at The Times.
媒体报道他与俄罗斯官员分享机密情报，指他曾要求詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)停止对迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)的调查，此后总统的心情“变得阴郁黑暗，他对大部分助手冷眼相向——甚至连他的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)也不例外——怒气冲冲地说他们‘无能，’”格伦·思拉什(Glenn Thrush)和玛吉·哈伯曼(Maggie Haberman)在《纽约时报》上描写道。
On Wednesday, he told United States Coast Guard Academy graduates, “No politician in history, and I say this with great surety, has been treated worse or more unfairly.”
周三，他告诉美国海岸警卫队学院的毕业生们，“我敢保证，历史上没有哪个政治人物受过比这更恶劣、更不公平的待遇。”
It’s not hard to imagine President Trump railing against the heavens, orange pate standing in for Lear’s “white head,” proclaiming himself “a man more sinn’d against than sinning.” Even the language of news reports has a Learian feel: “President Donald Trump, amid his own swirling controversies”; “the maelstrom raged around the staff”; “the tempest in Washington.”
特朗普总统仰天怒号，宣称“我是一个所受惩罚超过所犯过失的人”，这个画面倒也不难想象——虽说他是顶着一头橙发，而不是李尔王的“白头”。就连新闻报道里的话也有一点李尔王的感觉：“唐纳德·特朗普总统深陷争议漩涡”、“工作人员被惊涛骇浪席卷”、“华盛顿的暴风雨”。
Of course, Mr. Trump’s storm, unlike Lear’s, is of his own creation. And he doesn’t have Lear’s way with words — or, perhaps, he has a different one.
当然，与李尔王不同，特朗普的风暴是他自己创造的。他没有李尔王那种语言表达方式——或者说，他有另一种不同的语言。
On Tuesday morning, he tweeted, “I have been asking Director Comey & others, from the beginning of my administration, to find the LEAKERS in the intelligence community,” then trailed off with an ominous ellipsis. His only tweets since then have been anodyne, or at least anodyne for President Trump: a link to a story about industrial production and a video of his speech welcoming President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.
星期二上午，他发推说：“我从任期一开始就要求科米局长和其他人在情报界中找到泄露者”，然后缀上了一个有如不祥之兆的省略号。自那之后，他发表的几条推文都显得平淡乏味——至少以特朗普总统的标准而言——一则关于工业生产的报道链接，以及他欢迎土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)时的演讲视频。
His aides must be relieved. “We are hoping the president doesn’t tweet,” one told Politico on Tuesday night. “Fingers crossed.”
他的助手们肯定是松了一口气。“我们希望总统别发推，”星期二晚上，一位助手告诉《政治家》(Politico)。“我们祈祷他别这么干。”
During their break from doing Twitter damage control, Mr. Trump’s staff has been busy preparing him for his first trip abroad as president. They are giving him lots of charts, graphs and photos and inserting his name at regular intervals in briefing materials “because he keeps reading if he’s mentioned,” according to a Reuters report.
在不用忙着为Twitter造成的损害收拾局面的时候，特朗普的工作人员需要为他当上总统后的首次出国访问做准备。据路透社报道，他们给了他很多表格、图表和照片，并且在简报材料中每隔几段就插入他的名字，因为，“如果他的名字一直被提到的话，他就会继续读下去”。
Meanwhile, NATO is telling heads of state to keep their remarks at a May 25 summit under four minutes to accommodate the president’s attention span, according to Foreign Policy. “It’s like they’re preparing to deal with a child — someone with a short attention span and mood who has no knowledge of NATO, no interest in in-depth policy issues, nothing,” a source with knowledge of the preparations told Foreign Policy.
与此同时，根据《外交政策》(Foreign Policy)上的一篇文章，北约告诫各国元首，在5月25日的首脑会议上把自己的发言保持在四分钟之内，以此适应特朗普的注意力持续时长。“这就像他们正在准备和一个孩子打交道——一个不能长时间保持注意力、情绪急躁的人，他对北约一无所知，对深入的政策问题没有兴趣，什么都没有，”一个了解特朗普出访准备情况的知情人士告诉《外交政策》。
At this point, regardless of what happens with Mr. Comey, the Russians and anything else that comes out of the White House in the next few days, it’s hard to see how Mr. Trump can function as the president. Reports cast him as someone who cannot be trusted to perform the core duties of his office. Before the Inauguration, some speculated that Mr. Trump might operate as a head of state, flying around the world and meeting dignitaries while leaving the day-to-day workings of government to his vice president. It now appears he cannot even manage that: Mr. Thrush and Ms. Haberman report that some of his advisers “fear leaving him alone in meetings with foreign leaders out of concern he might speak out of turn.”
不管科米和俄罗斯人会怎样，以及未来几天白宫还会发生什么事情，从这一点看来，很难认为特朗普有能力担任总统。根据这些报道的描述，别人无法信任他能履行好自己的核心职责。在就职典礼之前，有人猜测特朗普可能会充当国家元首的角色，在世界各地飞行，会见贵宾，同时将政府的日常工作留给副总统处理。现在看来他甚至连这个角色也应付不来：据思拉什和哈伯曼报道，他的一些顾问“害怕让他独自一人同外国领导人会面，担心他会说出什么轻率的话来。”
Calls for impeachment have begun, but they will only gain traction if enough Republicans decide to back them. In the meantime, what does the country do with a president who can’t do his job?
弹劾的呼吁已经开始，但是只有得到足够多共和党人的支持才能获得通过。与此同时，如果总统无法做好自己的工作，这个国家又该怎么办呢？
The president is unlike King Lear in many respects, but in this perhaps most of all: He seems to lack a Cordelia who will speak to him honestly. Instead, Mr. Trump has been Regan and Goneriled all the way to the presidency, flattered and coddled by his advisers, the Republican establishment and his family to the point where flattery and coddling are useless and no amount of careful management can keep him from revealing state secrets and then bragging about it on Twitter.
总统在许多方面都和李尔王不同，但最重要的一点或许是：他似乎缺少一个能够诚实地同他说话的小女儿科迪利娅。相反，特朗普当上总统以后，身边一直都是李尔王的另外两个女儿里甘和戈纳瑞这样的人，他被顾问、共和党的掌权派和自己的家人奉承和娇惯着，以至于到现在奉承和娇惯都已经不管用了，任何悉心管理都无法阻止他透露国家机密，然后还要在Twitter上对这种行为夸夸其谈。
It’s not clear whether someone who refuses to lie, flatter or curry favor would have much influence with Mr. Trump, so surrounded is he by people willing to do all of those things. But someone like that, especially from within the Republican Party, could have a great influence on the country right now. Without such voices, we’re all at the mercy of the storm.
特朗普身边围绕着各种愿意撒谎、谄媚或是刻意讨好他的人，如果有人拒绝这样做，是否还能对他产生很大影响，目前尚不分明。但是，此时此刻，原本应当由这样的人对国家发挥重大的影响力，特别是来自共和党内的人士。没有了这样的声音，我们都要听凭暴风雨的打击。