Whether Tesla Motors can meet its ambitious growth targets — not to mention support its high-flying stock price — may well depend on people like Jason Berkley.
特斯拉汽车(Tesla Motors)能否实现雄心勃勃的增长目标，可能要依靠杰森·伯克利(Jason Berkley)这样的人，更别提维持其飙升的股价了。
I met Mr. Berkley this week when I dropped into the Tesla showroom on West 25th Street in Manhattan. The spare white-walled space could easily pass for one of the art galleries on either side of it, the art in this case being the single “signature red” Model S on the showroom floor. Several customers were stroking its sleek curves and sculptural door handles as I walked by.
这周，我偶然走进特斯拉汽车位于曼哈顿西25街的展示大厅，并在那里见到了伯克利。四面白墙的展示厅很宽敞，很容易被误以为是这条街两边的某家艺术画廊，而这里的艺术品就是那辆停在地面上有着“标志性红色”特斯拉S型汽车。在我经过旁边时，几个顾客正在抚摸着它光滑的曲线和雕塑作品般的门把手。
Mr. Berkley was seated at a desk around the corner, and urged me to pull up a chair. With his scruffy beard, Levis and loosefitting polo shirt, the 27-year-old graduate of Indiana University looked as if he’d walked out of Google’s New York headquarters a few blocks away. Actually, he’d been working in wealth management before joining Tesla in November.
伯克利坐在角落的一个桌子旁，催促着叫我拉把椅子坐下。这个印第安纳大学(Indiana University)毕业生现年27岁，留着蓬乱的胡须，穿着李维斯(Levis)牛仔裤和宽松的马球衫，看上去像是刚从几个街区外的谷歌(Google)纽约总部走出来一样。实际上，在11月份加入特斯拉汽车之前，伯克利一直在从事财富管理的工作。
I gave him a simple but seemingly insurmountable task: sell me a Tesla.
我给了他一个简单但似乎无法完成的任务：卖给我一辆特斯拉汽车。
This was not just a journalistic stunt. I’m in the market for a new car since the lease on my current model expires later this year. Like most car enthusiasts I know, I love the Tesla story: South Africa-born entrepreneur Elon Musk, now an American citizen, reinvents the automobile with a zero emission, all-electric model that in performance, appearance, technology and comfort puts the legacy automakers to shame. Despite enormous skepticism, he takes his venture public, produces more cars than Tucker, Vector and DeLorean combined (to cite three of Tesla’s legendary but failed predecessors), draws rave reviews from the automotive press, and makes a fortune as Tesla stock soars to dizzying heights. It’s the American dream writ large.
这不仅仅是一个写新闻故事的噱头，我确实是要在市场上找一辆新车，因为我现在那款车的租赁合同在今年晚些时候就会到期。和大多数爱车一族一样，我钟情于特斯拉的故事：南非出生、现已加入美国籍的创业者埃隆·马斯克(Elon Musk)，用一款零排放、全电动汽车重新定义了这种交通工具，而且它的性能、外观和舒适度让传统汽车生产商相形见绌。尽管面对着无数质疑声，马斯克还是将自己的企业推向市场，而其生产的汽车数量超过Tucker、Vector和DeLorean（三家在特斯拉之前尝试制造电动汽车的公司，它们颇具传奇性但最终以失败告终）加在一起生产的汽车总量，获得了来自汽车行业媒体的热烈赞美，并随着特斯拉的股价飙升至令人吃惊的高度大赚一笔。这是真真切切的美国梦。
Yes, I’d love to buy a Tesla. But a) I live in New York City and park in a public garage; b) drive on weekends to a house in rural upstate New York, far from any current or planned Tesla charging station; c) can afford only one car; d) occasionally make longer car trips far beyond the Tesla range; and e) the base Tesla S costs $71,000 before rebates.
是的，我想买一辆特斯拉。但是，一、我住在纽约，平常把车停在公共停车场；二、周末时我会开车到纽约北部乡下的一座房子，那里远离任何现有或者计划建造的特斯拉充电站；三、我只能买一辆车；四、有时我会开车进行远远超出特斯拉汽车所能承受范围的长距离旅行；五、不算退税，买一辆Tesla S型汽车基本款需要7.1万美元（约合43万元人民币）。
I’m hardly alone in facing such obstacles. Everyone who walks into a Tesla showroom has to be persuaded by someone like Mr. Berkley to become an early adapter — someone willing to take a gamble on a largely unproven $71,000 electric car that needs to be both reliable and safe.
这些难处不只是我一个人有。每个走进特斯拉展示厅的人都需要被一个像伯克利这样的人说服，而变成早期使用者——愿意冒险买下一辆基本未经证明、花费7.1万美元的电动汽车，而且这辆车需要既安全又可靠。
I discussed the Tesla phenomenon this week with Adam Jonas, a managing director and the leader of Morgan Stanley’s global auto research team, who agreed that getting potential customers past many of the same obstacles I face “is an important issue. The population that has the financial means and the motivation to buy this car tends to live in densely populated urban areas, where the parking and municipal infrastructures still aren’t there. Tesla still has a lot of work to do to get into parking garages and get municipalities to install charging stations.”
这周，我和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)的全球汽车研究小组负责人、管理主管亚当·乔纳斯(Adam Jonas)讨论了特斯拉现象，他同样认为，帮助潜在客户克服许多我所面临的同样障碍“十分重要”。“能够支付得起特斯拉汽车并且有动力买这种车的人通常住在人口密集的市区，而那里的停车以及市政设施仍不完备。特斯拉仍需做大量工作让他们的汽车进入停车场，让市政府建造充电站。”
Mr. Berkley tackled the issues head-on as I raised them, and I liked that he said at the outset that the Tesla “might not work for you.” With Google Maps on his screen, he calculated that the route from my parking garage to my house upstate was 88 miles. With a charging station installed in my barn, I could charge the battery overnight, and comfortably make the 176-mile round trip, even with the lower-cost standard battery, which delivers an estimated range of 208 miles. Mr. Berkley said that if I adhered to 55 miles per hour on the highway, I was likely to get 230 miles.
我提出这些问题的时候，伯克利予以了正面回应。他开门见山地说，特斯拉“可能不是你需要的车”，这一点我很喜欢。他用屏幕上的谷歌地图(Google Maps)计算出，从我家的车库到纽约州北部的房子要走88英里（约合140公里）。在车库里装一个充电站的话，我可以在晚间给电池充满电，从容地走完176英里的来回。就算是低配电池也可以做到这一点，因为它的行驶距离约为208英里。伯克利称，如果我在高速上保持55英里的时速，就很可能开到230英里。
That didn’t quite solve the problem, since the Tesla loses as much as 10 miles in range for every day it isn’t used, and my car sits in the garage during the week. That might cost me 50 miles a week, which would be cutting it close. I might have to get the more powerful battery, which adds $10,000 to the base price and extends the range to an estimated 265 miles, or 300 at the 55-mile speed limit.
这并不太解决问题，特斯拉闲置的时候每天要损失10英里的行驶距离，而我的车在库里一待就是一个礼拜。一周损失50英里的话，就捉襟见肘了。我或许得购买高配的电池，也就是在底价的基础上再加1万美元，让行驶距离扩展到265英里左右，或是在55英里的限速下开到300英里。
What about longer trips? Mr. Berkley showed me a map of the country with current and planned high-speed charging stations, where Tesla owners can recharge the battery in 30 to 40 minutes at no cost. Two of these stations are up and running in Connecticut, which would have made it possible for me to drive the Tesla on a recent trip to Wellesley, Mass., which is 200 miles from Manhattan, with just one recharging stop. By the end of 2014, the company expects to have stations covering 80 percent of the continental United States, most near coffee shops, restaurants and other amenities.
更远的距离呢？伯克利给我展示了一张美国地图，上面标出了已有的和计划建设的快速充电站的位置。在这种充电站，特斯拉用户可以在30到40分钟的时间里免费充满电池。康涅狄格州有两个快速充电站正在运行，这样的话，我最近到曼哈顿200英里外的马萨诸塞州韦尔斯利走的一趟就可以只在中途充一次电。到2014年底，特斯拉公司计划将在能覆盖美国本土80%区域的网点设立充电站，其中多数靠近咖啡店和餐厅等便利设施。
That still might not get me to and from Cooperstown, N.Y., about 200 miles from Manhattan, where I drove last weekend. Cooperstown is well off even Tesla’s most ambitious grid. But how often do I go to a remote place like that? “Every once in a while you’d probably have to rent a Zipcar,” Mr. Berkley conceded.
不过，这还是解决不了我上周跑的一趟。当时我到距曼哈顿约200英里的纽约州库珀斯敦开了个来回，就连特斯拉最宏伟的网点计划里也看不到那个地方的影子。话又说回来，我去那种偏远地区的频率有多高？“恐怕你要偶尔到Zipcar租辆车，”伯克利承认。
So the Tesla seems feasible, which got me to the cost. Seventy-one-thousand dollars (let alone $81,000) is far more than I’ve ever paid for a car. I’ve read that most Tesla customers are already driving BMW 7 Series, Mercedes S-Class, Porsches and other high-end performance cars. I drive a Mini Cooper.
好，开特斯拉似乎是可行的，那就归结到价格问题了。7.1万美元（更别提8.1万美元）比我以前花在任何一辆车上的钱都多不少。我看到有报道说，特斯拉的多数顾客都开过宝马7系列(BMW 7 Series)、奔驰S级(Mercedes S-Class)和保时捷(Porsche)等高端轿车，而我开的是辆Mini Cooper。
Mr. Berkley thought I could get by with relatively few options, holding the cost down. Every Tesla buyer gets a $7,500 federal tax credit. The fuel savings also add up. He estimated that every $1 of electricity is the equivalent of $5 in gas, even more if the charging is done during off-peak hours. And while there isn’t a track record to gauge Tesla’s resale value, Tesla offers a guaranteed buyback after three years of 50 percent of the purchase price. And I’d be willing to bet that early Teslas will be valuable collector’s items. The more Mr. Berkley talked, the more reasonable the Tesla seemed, more like an investment.
伯克利认为，我可以配置少一点，把价钱降下来。每个特斯拉买家能获得7500美元的税收抵免。省下的油钱也很合理。按照他的估算，每用1美元电相当于5美元的汽油，如果在用电低谷期充电的话，还能省更多。尽管没有历史记录可以用来测算二手特斯拉的价值，但公司保证，三年后以50%的购买价回购。而且，我敢打赌，早期的特斯拉将成为价值不菲的藏品。伯克利说得越多，特斯拉就越显得是个合理的选择，而且越发像是一笔投资。
Then we got into the car, which has ample headroom and only two buttons on the dashboard. Almost everything is controlled from an iPad-like touch screen embedded in the center of the dashboard. It’s also an Internet connection and was displaying the home page of The New York Times. I worried that might be a little distracting, but Mr. Berkley said it’s nice when you’re stuck in traffic.
随后，我们钻进汽车。它拥有宽敞的头部空间，仪表盘上只有两个按钮。几乎一切都由嵌在仪表盘中心的一个触摸屏控制，外观类似于iPad。它还可以联上互联网，上面正显示着《纽约时报》的主页。我担心这可能会有点分心，但伯克利说，堵车的时候正好派上用场。
The car is indeed gorgeous to look at. Why do the G.M. Volt and Toyota Prius seem so stodgy by comparison? It’s not that those companies couldn’t have hired the same design talent. (Franz von Holzhausen, who did the much admired, now discontinued Pontiac Solstice roadster while he was a designer for G.M., designed the Tesla S.) I was soon testing color, upholstery and wheel cover options on a large wall display, and was ready to schedule a test drive.
这辆车看起来确实漂亮。为什么相比之下通用沃蓝达(GM Volt)和丰田普锐斯(Toyota Prius)显得如此平庸呢？那些公司又不是请不起同样的设计天才。（特斯拉S型车的设计师弗朗茨·冯·霍尔茨豪森曾为通用工作，设计了广受赞誉但现已停产的庞蒂亚克索斯迪斯敞篷跑车。）我马上在大型屏幕上测试了各种颜色、内饰和轮盖，并准备安排一次试驾。
Mr. Berkley and his colleagues in Tesla’s more than 50 stores and galleries worldwide are obviously doing something right. Tesla said it delivered 5,150 Models S cars in the most recent quarter, exceeding the company’s target of 4,500. An annual selling rate of 40,000 by the end of next year looks “pretty safe,” according to Mr. Musk. The news sent the stock surging two weeks ago.
伯克利和特斯拉全球50多家车行和展示厅的同事显然找对了路子。公司宣布上季度交付了5150辆S型车，超过了公司制定的4500辆的目标。马斯克称，到明年年底，4万辆的年销量看起来“相当有把握”。这一消息促使公司股价在两周前飙升。
Tesla shares, lately around $161, have nearly quadrupled in the last year. At $19.5 billion this week, Tesla’s market capitalization is now about 40 percent of G.M.’s, which is $48.5 billion. In an appearance on CNBC this week, Mr. Musk conceded that the market was being “very generous” to Tesla and “the valuation is more than we have any right to deserve.”
特斯拉的股价去年几乎翻了两番，最近在161美元左右的高位。本周，特斯拉的市值达195亿美元，目前约为通用汽车485亿美元市值的40%。本周在CNBC频道露面时，马斯克承认，市场对特斯拉“非常慷慨”，“估值比我们理应获得的要高得多”。
Mr. Musk has been compared to the Apple founder Steve Jobs as a master showman, and he surely knows that Tesla’s valuation isn’t based on sales or any other traditional metric.
马斯克一直被拿来与苹果(Apple)创始人史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)相提并论，被认为是吸引眼球的大师，而他也的确知道，特斯拉的估值并非基于销售额或其他任何传统度量方法。
Should there be a fire or accident, despite Tesla’s outstanding safety record so far, all bets might be off. After I left the showroom, I imagined myself gliding down the cobbled street outside in a new Tesla, generating zero emissions but plenty of curiosity from pedestrians and other drivers, and probably no small measure of envy. I haven’t felt that way since my first car, a used 1964 Falcon convertible. But then reality started to intrude. What if I lost power in the country, as happened for four days after Hurricane Irene? I guess I’d have to invest in a generator or have a second, gas-powered car for emergencies. And do I really want to pay $71,000, only to be lining up some weekend for a Zipcar?
尽管迄今为止特斯拉有着优秀的安全纪录，但如果发生火灾或事故，那么所有的赌注都会赔光。离开展销厅之后，我想象着自己开着一辆全新特斯拉在外面的街道上飞驰，完全零排放，却吊起了路人和其他司机大大的好奇心，以及不小的嫉妒。自从开第一辆车——1964年款的福特猎鹰(Ford Falcon)敞篷车——以后，我还再未有那种感觉。但现实随后开始侵入我的脑海。如果我在乡下失去动力了怎么办，例如飓风“艾琳”(Hurricane Irene)肆虐导致停电4天那种情况？我想，我得买一台发电机，或是第二辆汽油动力轿车以备不时之需。还有，我真的想要支付7.1万美元，却还得在某些周末排队找Zipcar租车吗？
“It’s not yet practical as an only car,” Mr. Jonas told me, as I was coming down to earth. “You have to treat it as a toy and be completely cool if it doesn’t work. But there’s still tremendous potential. Before the first-quarter results, people were betting Tesla wouldn’t last the year. Now the question is, These guys are for real, but how big can they be? There’s been a seismic change. The auto industry hasn’t seen anything this disruptive since the dawn of the Japanese manufacturers.”
当我从想象回到现实的时候，乔纳斯告诉我，“把它当成唯一的用车还不实际。你得把它当成一个玩具，出问题的话也完全没问题。不过，它仍有着巨大的潜力。第一季度业绩公布前，人们还在猜想特斯拉能否撑到年底。而现在的问题是，这些家伙是认真的，但他们能把生意做到多大呢？这是翻天覆地的转变。自从日本汽车制造商崛起以来，汽车行业还没见过如此具有突破性的事情。”