BRIDGEWATER, N.J. — After a four-day fusillade of apocalyptic threats against North Korea, President Donald Trump left many in Washington and capitals throughout the Pacific wondering whether it was more method or madness. Among those wondering were members of Trump’s own administration.
新泽西州布里奇沃特——接连四天对朝鲜进行末日威胁之后，唐纳德·特朗普总统令华盛顿和太平洋两岸各国政界人士感到困惑，不知他的威胁到底是策略还是疯狂。特朗普政府的成员也在其中。
It was not the first time in his unconventional presidency that Trump had unnerved friend and foe alike, but never before had it seemed so consequential. Unrestrained attacks on uncooperative members of his own party, the “dishonest media” and the cast of “Saturday Night Live” generally do not raise fears of nuclear war. But as with so much with Trump, the line between calculation and impulse can be blurry.
在特朗普不循常规的总统任内，这已经不是他第一次让朋友和敌人同样感到不安，但是之前从未有过如此事关重大的情况。肆意攻击自己党内不合作的成员、“不诚实的媒体”和《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)的演员，一般不会引起对核战争的担忧。但是同特朗普的许多言行一样，深思熟虑和一时冲动之间的界线可能是模糊的。
In the broadest sense, Trump’s “fire and fury” and “locked and loaded” warnings fit the strategic imperatives of the advisers who gave him classified briefings at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, over the past week. The president showed resolve in the face of Pyongyang’s defiance, as his aides had counseled, while increasing pressure on China to broker some kind of deal to denuclearize the tinderbox Korean Peninsula.
总体而言，特朗普的“炮火与怒火”以及“子弹上膛，准备战斗”的警告，符合顾问们的战略要求，过去的一周里，他们在新泽西州贝德明斯特的高尔夫俱乐部里向他做了机密简报。正如助手们建议的那样，面对平壤的蔑视，总统显示出了决心，同时也增加了对中国的压力，要求中国以中间人身份达成某些协议，在朝鲜半岛危险地区实现无核化。
But Trump, who bridles at being stage-managed, ignored their advice to project dignified steadfastness. Carefully calibrated briefings for the president by Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, the national security adviser, and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis came out through a Trump bullhorn, magnified and maximized for effect. For perhaps the first time in generations, an American leader became the wild card in a conflict typically driven by a brutal, secretive despot in Pyongyang.
但是特朗普对于遭到局势摆布感到恼怒，不理会顾问们要求他保持庄严坚定的建议。那些简报是经国家安全顾问、陆军中将H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)和国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)为总统精心打磨的，通过特朗普的大喇叭播放出来后，声音和效果都被放到最大。对于几代人来说，同朝鲜的冲突都是由平壤残酷、隐秘的专制统治者所主导，或许这是第一次，一个美国领导人成了其中的未知数。
“On the U.S. side, the tradition has been steely resolve and preparation,” said Dennis C. Blair, a retired admiral and head of the U.S. Pacific Command who went on to serve as director of national intelligence. “But now we have a president who reacts to braggadocio with an attempt to top it on his own side. He’s out there in territory he thinks is familiar, which is meeting exaggerated statement with exaggerated statement, convincing the other side that we’re tough, you’re going to fold.”
“美国方面的传统一直是下定决心与做好准备，”退伍海军上将、美国太平洋司令部前负责人，现在担任国家情报工作主管的丹尼斯·C·布莱尔(Dennis C. Blair)表示。“但是现在我们的总统对吹牛的反应就是试图吹一个更大的牛。他觉得置身自己熟悉的领域，也就是用夸张的声明应付夸张的声明，力图说服对方：我们很强硬，你们会失败的。”
In other words, the magnitude of the challenges Trump faces has grown dramatically, but his tone has not. And it remains to be seen whether the don’t-mess-with-me attitude that cowed Republican primary rivals like Jeb Bush will have a similar effect on a regime that has managed to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile that could reach the United States while making progress toward miniaturizing a nuclear warhead that would fit on top.
换句话说，特朗普面对的挑战已经急剧严重化，但他的语调却没有变。朝鲜研制出了能攻击美国的洲际弹道导弹，并且在可装在洲际导弹上的小型核弹头研制方面取得了进展，对于这样一个政权来说，曾在竞选中吓倒杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)等共和党内主要竞争对手的那套“别来惹我”的态度是否管用，目前还有待观察。
In this case, Trump has told people around him that he thinks Kim Jong Un, the unpredictable North Korean leader, will ultimately be prodded to cut a deal, and that the bluntness of his language is intended to create a crisis that drives him to negotiate before North Korea perfects a nuclear-tipped missile capable of striking the U.S. mainland.
在这种情况下，特朗普告诉身边的人，他认为，金正恩这个不可预测的朝鲜领导人最终会被迫达成交易，而他直率的语言是为了创造一场危机，促使金正恩在朝鲜完善能够击中美国本土的核导弹之前就开始谈判。
Unlike other presidents, who rejected direct contact with their North Korean counterparts, Trump has even suggested that he would meet with Kim if the circumstances were right, perhaps for a hamburger.
与其他拒绝同朝鲜领导人进行直接接触的总统不同，特朗普甚至建议，如果条件成熟，他愿意与金正恩会面，也许还可以一起吃汉堡包。
“If Kim were to respond positively, Trump might end up as his best friend,” said Scott Snyder, director of the program on U.S.-Korea policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. “I think it is as plausible that we could end up with a ‘hamburger summit’ between Trump and Kim as that we will end up in a second Korean War.”
“如果金正恩做出积极的反应，特朗普可能会成为他最好的朋友，”美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)美韩政策项目主任斯科特·施奈德(Scott Snyder)说。“我觉得我们最终有可能为特朗普和金正恩举办一场‘汉堡包峰会’，也有可能以第二次朝鲜战争告终。”
To much of the foreign policy establishment in both parties, however, the approach is alarming.
然而，对于两党的大部分外交政策权力集团来说，这种做法令人震惊。
“When I was watching the president talk, I thought, ‘Oh, my god, why is he doing this?'” said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., former chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Anybody who knows anything about this young Korean leader knows it’s going to promote an even more aggressive response.”
“当我看到总统的讲话时，我想，‘哦，上帝，他为什么要这样做？’”参议院情报委员会前主席、加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安·费恩斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)说。“任何了解这位年轻朝鲜领导人的人都知道，这将会引来进一步的挑衅反应。”
“I just wished he’d stop it, with the tweeting one day and the next day, it’s something else,” Feinstein added. “Why isn’t the secretary of state the one making the statements? Why didn’t he at least make it at the White House and not some golf course, or wherever he was? He speaks for the whole country, not just for his feelings at the moment. It’s just dangerous.”
“我只希望他能停止，别再连续一两天发这样的推文，这是另一回事，”费恩斯坦补充说。“为什么不是由国务卿来发表声明呢？他至少应该在白宫发表声明，为什么要在高尔夫球场之类的地方呢？他是在代表整个国家讲话，不仅仅是为了体现他当时的感受。这样做是危险的。”
Some of Trump’s advisers, including Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist, have urged him to take a less interventionist stance, but Bannon has been kept out of most of the deliberations. Mattis, for his part, has advised Trump to project strength and resolve. But he has quietly lamented to lawmakers from both parties the absence of military options against North Korea that would not imperil the lives of millions of civilians in South Korea and Japan.
特朗普的一些顾问，包括首席策略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)，劝他采取干涉意味不那么强烈的立场，但相关的商谈基本上都没有让班农参与。马蒂斯则建议特朗普表现出实力和决心。但他暗自向两党的议员抱怨，在所有对朝军事手段的选择中，没有一种是不会危及韩国和日本数百万平民生命的。
And Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, who flew to New Jersey to meet with Trump after consulting with leaders in Asia over the past week, has complained privately about the lack of coordination between the White House and his department, which has often been blindsided by the president’s statements.
国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)则在私下里抱怨白宫和他领导的国务院缺乏协调。特朗普的声明常让国务院措手不及。在过去一周和亚洲多国领导人会商后，蒂勒森飞往新泽西同特朗普会面。
Even some of the president’s own advisers have quietly asked each other in recent days if Trump’s bellicosity toward North Korea is part of some thought-out strategy that they have not been told about or what they suspect is just more on-the-fly instinct. But some aides have found themselves surprised at other moments when Trump has done something unexpected and seemingly random, only to explain his thinking afterward in a way that indicated more calculation than they had thought.
最近几天，就连总统自己的一些顾问也悄悄相互询问，特朗普对朝鲜表现出的好斗，是某项经过深思熟虑只是没告知他们的策略，还是像他们怀疑的那样，更多只是临时表现出来的本能。但让某些助手感到意外的是，当特朗普做出某件出人意料、看似随机的事，过后的解释却表明他的考量比他们想象的多。
Aides do know that after a lifetime in the real estate business, Trump starts a negotiation with an extreme position intended to ensure that the other side meets him not just in the middle but closer to his side. While he has little experience in translating that into international diplomacy, Trump has shown that he is not so wedded to any particular position on almost any issue, meaning he might be more likely to accept a compromise that would seem unthinkable judging by the stark language he uses at the start.
他的助手的确知道，拥有长期从事房地产生意经历的特朗普开始谈判时立场极端，意在确保对方不仅要选择折中的立场，还要让利益天平向他倾斜。尽管缺少把这种策略转化到国际外交中去的经验，特朗普在几乎所有问题上都表现出他不会太执着于任何一个特定立场。这意味着他也许更有可能接受一个从他一开始使用的强硬措辞来判断似乎不可想象的妥协。
Snyder of the Council on Foreign Relations said Trump could be North Korea’s greatest nightmare and its greatest opportunity. He might be a nightmare, Snyder said, because he would not be constrained by norms that would favor acquiescence over military force. And he might be an opportunity because, Snyder said, “the chances of Kim being able to cut a deal with an unconventional Trump are higher than they would be with a president more sensitive to the politics of nuclear diplomacy with North Korea.”
外交关系协会的斯奈德说，特朗普可能是朝鲜最大的噩梦，也可能是它最大的机遇。他说，特朗普可能成为噩梦是因为，他不受限于在默许与动武之间倾向于前者的常规。他也可能是一个机遇是因为，“金正恩能够与不因循守旧的特朗普达成协议的可能性，比和一个对与朝鲜的核外交政治更加敏感的总统高。”