Staunch in its opposition to the Democrats but rived by fierce internal schisms, the American political party stumbled toward defeat, its members cursing their fate. “We are slain,” cried Lewis D. Campbell, a representative from Ohio. “The party is dead, dead, dead!”
坚定地站在民主党的对立面，但内部却出现了严重分裂，就这样，这个美国政党跌跌撞撞地走向失败，其成员们哀嚎着自己的命运。“我们被搞死了，”来自俄亥俄州的众议员刘易斯·D·坎贝尔(Lewis D. Campbell)叫道。“这个党死了！死了！死了！”
That was the election of 1852, when the Whig Party, then one of the country’s two major political forces, began to crumble over bitter arguments about slavery. The Whigs would dissolve within four years, to be reborn as the Republican Party — the very party now engulfed by its own civil war.
那是1852年的选举，美国的两大政治力量之一的辉格党(Whig Party)在奴隶制问题上内部出现了激烈的争吵，开始走向了瓦解。在之后的四年中，辉格党将会消失，重生为共和党——也就是如今正在遭受内战冲击的这个政党。
As this year’s extraordinary election hurtles toward its climax, scores of Republican leaders have deserted their party’s presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump. A snowballing scandal over sexual harassment and assault allegations has caused Mr. Trump’s poll numbers to crater, and some of the party’s top donors have suggested abandoning him altogether. But a solid core of rank-and-file Republicans stands defiantly with Mr. Trump, flocking to increasingly raucous rallies where the candidate vents his rage toward and disdain for a party that, at least theoretically, still backs him.
今年这场不同寻常的选举正在奔向高潮，数十名共和党领袖已经抛弃了他们的总统提名人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。随着性骚扰和性侵指控丑闻像雪球一般越滚越大，特朗普的民调数字也跌入了深谷，该党最大的一些捐助者已经表示完全放弃了他。但普通共和党人中的坚强核心挑衅地站在特朗普一边，涌向言论越来越刺耳的竞选集会，在这些集会上，特朗普把愤怒和蔑视之情发泄到了一个至少在理论上仍然支持他的政党上。
The turmoil raises a bracing possibility: Is an American political behemoth — a 162-year-old party that has produced 18 presidents, including Abraham Lincoln, Dwight D. Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan — about to fall apart like its predecessor?
这种风暴引发了一个非常醒脑的可能性：美国的一大政治巨头——拥有162年历史，产生了18位总统，包括亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)、德怀特· D ·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)和罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的政党——将要像它的前身一样瓦解吗？
“There is a real danger,” said William Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard, a conservative magazine, and an early critic of Mr. Trump. “But I wouldn’t panic yet. It’s very hard to know where we stand right now. A lot depends on the election in November.”
“确实有这种危险，”保守派杂志《旗帜周刊》(The Weekly Standard)主编、特朗普的早期批评者威廉·克里斯托尔(William Kristol)说。“但我不会现在就恐慌。我们目前的境地还很难说。很多事情都取决于11月举行的选举。”
The Republican schism is in fact the culmination of simmering tensions within American conservatism. For years, the party has been an amalgam of factions: Christian evangelicals, free-marketeers, foreign policy hawks and more. The election of Barack Obama in 2008 helped spur the rise of a strongly conservative wing known as the Tea Party, with a brand of protest politics that fed off the anger of many white voters and created an opening for Mr. Trump this year.
共和党的分裂其实是美国保守主义紧张局面发酵的高潮。多年来，该党始终派系林立︰基督教福音派人士、自由市场派、外交政策鹰派等等。奥巴马2008年的当选刺激了茶党(Tea Party)的兴起，这个极其保守的派别举起了反抗政治的名号，汇聚了很多白人选民的愤怒，也给特朗普今年的崛起打开了大门。
Republican leaders have never been happy or comfortable with Mr. Trump, a celebrity tycoon who has changed his party affiliation five times. But their hand was forced when he vanquished 16 rivals for the party’s nomination. For months, Republican leaders turned a blind eye to Mr. Trump’s verbal attacks on Muslims, Mexicans and women.
特朗普是名人大亨，改变过五次党籍，共和党领导层从来没有乐于或者放心支持过他。但在该党总统提名人的竞争中，特朗普击败了16个对手。数个月里，共和党领导层对特朗普口头攻击穆斯林、墨西哥人和妇女的做法视而不见。
Their calculation was that even if Mr. Trump lost the presidential election, the party could retain its prime political asset: its majorities in the House of Representatives and the Senate. Although Republicans have lost the past two presidential elections, they have had stunning success in congressional races and now enjoy their largest majority since 1928. That has given them considerable power to block laws, constrain President Obama and threaten government shutdowns.
他们的打算是，即使特朗普在总统选举中败北，该党最重要的政治资产也能保存下来，即众议院和参议院的多数席位。虽然共和党人在过去的两次总统选举中都以失败告终，但他们在国会选举中大获成功，拥有了自1928年以来的最大多数席位。这给他们带来了相当大的权力，可以阻止法律通过，对奥巴马总统进行限制，威胁让政府停止运行。
Republicans also control two-thirds of the 50 state legislatures, allowing them to shape laws on issues at the heart of America’s culture wars: guns, abortion and marijuana.
共和党也控制了50个州立法机构中的三分之二，这让他们可以在枪支、堕胎和大麻等美国文化战争中的核心议题上影响立法。
But when a recording emerged of Mr. Trump boasting about groping women, it struck at the core of a party that prides itself on “values,” and Republican leaders could no longer look the other way.
然而，当一段特朗普吹嘘自己如何猥亵女性的视频浮出水面时，它击中了一个以“价值观”为豪的政党的核心。共和党领袖无法再对它视而不见。
Some Republican politicians who expressed revulsion at Mr. Trump’s comments might have been acting out of cold political calculation. On Nov. 8, Americans will vote not only to elect a president but also to fill all 435 House seats and 34 of the Senate’s 100 seats. Analysts predict that a crushing defeat for Mr. Trump could cost Republicans their advantage in the Senate and even their control of the House — a prospect that until recently was considered a distant possibility.
一些共和党政客对特朗普的言论表示厌恶，此举可能是出于冷酷的政治算计。11月8日，美国将进行投票，不仅会选出一位总统，还将填充所有的425个众议员席位，以及100个参议员席位中的34个。分析人员预测，特朗普惨败可能会让共和党失去自身在参议院中的优势，甚至失去对众议院的掌控——直到最近，这一前景还被认为不太可能出现。
It is easy to forget that the Republican Party, now known as an anti-abortion and pro-gun stalwart, originated as the progressive face of American politics.
人们容易忘记，现在被视作反堕胎和支持拥枪支坚定分子的共和党，最初也曾是美国政治中的进步面孔。
Founded in 1854 on a platform of opposition to slavery, the party was initially dominated by Northern states, which were more industrial. The first Republican president, Lincoln, held the Union together through the Civil War, during which he issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which led to the abolition of slavery. The party’s nickname, the Grand Old Party, dates from that period, as does its mascot, the elephant, which first appeared in 1874 as a political cartoon in Harper’s Weekly.
1854年成立时，共和党以反奴隶制为纲领，最初是由北方州主导，这些州工业更为发达。第一位共和党总统林肯通过内战保持了联邦的完整。在此期间，他发布了《解放黑人奴隶宣言》(Emancipation Proclamation)，由此废除奴隶制。共和党的昵称“老大党”(Grand Old Party)就源自那个时期。该党的吉祥物大象也是如此，它最早于1874年出现在《哈珀周刊》(Harper’s Weekly)的一副政治漫画中。
In the years before and during the Civil War, the Democratic Party, which dominated the agrarian South, supported slavery. But the tables turned in the 1960s, when the Democratic Party championed an end to segregation and Southern states swung to the Republicans, increasingly the party of conservatism.
在美国内战爆发前和进行期间，主导南方农业州的民主党是支持奴隶制的。但在上世纪60年代，局面发生反转，民主党推动终结了种族隔离，南方各州转向日趋保守主义的共和党。
Mr. Trump’s campaign has ushered in a new chapter of the conservative story, building a coalition of disaffected voters motivated as much by their anger at government and establishment politics as by any policy issue.
特朗普的竞选活动开启了保守派历史的新篇章，形成了一个由心怀不满的选民构成的联盟。驱动他们的不仅是政策议题，同样也是对政府和权贵阶层的愤怒。
In the final weeks of the race, Mr. Trump’s scorched-earth campaign has exposed a yawning gulf between Republican leaders and much of the party’s base.
在这场竞选的最后几周里，特朗普焦土化的竞选活动暴露出，共和党领袖与构成该党根基的大部分成员之间存在着巨大的鸿沟。
While Washington insiders and Republican thinkers have scorned Mr. Trump, some politicians, unsure of their constituents’ opinions, are weighing whether to lend him their support.
尽管华盛顿圈内人和共和党内的策略人士对特朗普嗤之以鼻，但一些政治人士因不确定其选民的想法，正在权衡是否对他表示支持。
After the recording was made public this month, some leaders disavowed Mr. Trump but then, facing a backlash from constituents, reaffirmed their support — a maneuver known in the British news media as a “reverse ferret.”
在那段视频于本月曝光之后，一些共和党高层人物收回了对特朗普的支持，但接着就遭到选民的强烈反对，于是又重申了自己的支持——这种情况在英国媒体中被称为“雪貂反转”(reverse ferret)。
Some Republicans have had enough. At the party’s contentious national convention in July in Cleveland, I met Ryan Davenport, 25, a teacher from Dallas in a stars-and-stripes bow tie, who brimmed with fury at the ascension of Mr. Trump as the party’s standard-bearer. When I called Mr. Davenport last weekend, he said he had abandoned the party and would vote for Evan McMullin, a former C.I.A. operative who began a moonshot bid for the presidency as an anti-Trump independent.
一些共和党人已经受够了。在共和党于今年7月在克利夫兰举行的全国大会上，我遇到了25岁的瑞安·达文波特(Ryan Davenport)。这是一名来自达拉斯的教师，打着一个星条旗图案领结，他对特朗普一步登天成为共和党领袖感到十分愤怒。上周我给达文波特打电话时，他说他已经放弃了共和党，将会投票给前中央情报局(CIA)特工伊凡·麦克马林(Evan McMullin)。后者以反特朗普无党派人士的身份加入了总统竞选，不过获胜机会十分渺茫。
Mr. Davenport said he took no pleasure in seeing the party he loved in disarray. But when fund-raisers for Mr. Trump called his house, he told them to leave him alone. “We have a predator running for president of the United States,” Mr. Davenport told me. “He’s radioactive.”
达文波特表示，他不愿意看到自己热爱的政党陷入混乱。但是当特朗普的资金募集人员打电话到家里时，他告诉他们别打扰他。“我们让一个侵犯女性的人在竞选美国总统，”达文波特告诉我。“他是带有放射性的。”
Whether Mr. Trump wins or loses in November, questions over the party’s future will remain.
不管特朗普在11月是输是赢，这个政党的未来都依然存疑。
Mr. Kristol, the conservative commentator, said Mr. Trump’s candidacy could turn out to be “a bit of fluke” because his brand of politics enjoys limited support among elected Republicans. “If you look at your average stump speech, they do not sound like Trump,” Mr. Kristol said.
保守派评论员克里斯托尔表示，特朗普的候选人资格最后可能被证明是“一种侥幸”，因为他的政治主张在当选共和党成员中获得的支持十分有限。“你看看普通的竞选演讲，它们听起来可不是特朗普那样，”克里斯托尔说。
Others see the party veering toward a possible split.
另一些人觉得，共和党有可能正在走向分裂。
“Our views — the Republican intellectuals and think-tank people — differ from a significant chunk of the electorate,” said Avik Roy, a conservative strategist who likened Mr. Trump’s success to the rise of right-wing nationalist parties in Europe. “And it’s the electorate that decides.”
“我们的观念——共和党知识分子和智囊团——与全体选民中的相当大一部分不同，”将特朗普的成功与欧洲右翼民族主义政党的崛起相提并论的保守派策略师阿维克·罗伊(Avik Roy)说。“有决定权的是选民们。”
In pugnacious form, Mr. Trump has in recent days inveighed against Republican leaders. Dealing with his party, he declared, was harder than fighting his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.
最近几天，特朗普以一种好斗的方式对共和党高层进行了猛烈的抨击。他宣称，对付自己的政党比对抗他的民主党对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)还要艰难。
With several polling websites putting Mr. Trump’s chances of winning the election around 10 percent, he appears to be steeling for defeat, warning his supporters that the outcome of the election will be rigged. At a rally in Florida on Thursday, he struck an apocalyptic tone. “This is a struggle for the survival of our nation,” he said.
随着多项民意测验显示特朗普赢得大选的机会为10%左右，他似乎在为可能的失败做思想准备，警告其支持者大选的结果会是经过操纵的。在上周四于佛罗里达州举行的一场集会活动上，他采用了一种世界末日般的语气。“这是一场关乎国家存亡的斗争，”他说。
Or, at least, the survival of the Republican Party.
或者至少可以说，关乎共和党的存亡。