President Trump had international affairs on his mind Tuesday morning. In his speech before the United Nations, he threatened to “totally destroy North Korea.” He lambasted the Iran nuclear deal. And he proclaimed that parts of the world “are going to hell.”
星期二上午，特朗普总统心系国际事务。他在联合国的讲话中威胁要“彻底摧毁朝鲜”，还抨击了伊朗核协议。他宣称世界上有些地方“要下地狱”。
But by late Tuesday night, Mr. Trump was focused on other things. He pulled out his iPhone to deliver a 139-character tweet for world consumption:
但到了星期二晚上，特朗普的心思放在了其他事情上。他拿出iPhone，输入了一段139个字符的推文，供世界把玩：
“I was saddened to see how bad the ratings were on the Emmys last night — the worst ever,” Mr. Trump began.
“看到昨晚艾美奖的收视率那么糟——有史以来最糟，我很难过。”他在开始这么写道。
It was really only a matter of time before the president chimed in on the Emmy Awards. Politics dominated the event on Sunday night — both in the types of shows that won and the topic of the host Stephen Colbert’s opening monologue and the winners’ speeches.
总统对艾美奖发表意见其实只是个时间问题。星期天晚上，政治色彩主导了这个颁奖典礼，无论是获奖的节目类型还是主持人斯蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)的开幕独白和获奖者的发言。
Mr. Trump has expressed his displeasure with Emmys in years past, calling them rigged and dishonest. And the first minutes of Sunday’s broadcast seemed almost designed to goad the president to respond. Mr. Colbert noted that Mr. Trump was once part of Hollywood.
特朗普过去就表达过对艾美奖的不满，称他们被操纵，很不诚实。周日的颁奖礼最初几分钟似乎是专门为了刺激特朗普做出回应而设计的。科尔伯特说，特朗普曾经是好莱坞的一部分。
“And we all know the Emmys mean a lot to Donald Trump,” Mr. Colbert said in his monologue. “Because he was nominated multiple times for ‘Celebrity Apprentice’ but he never won. Why didn’t you give him an Emmy? I tell you this. If he had won an Emmy, I bet he wouldn’t have run for president. So in a way this is all your fault.”
“我们都知道，艾美奖对唐纳德·特朗普来说意义重大，”科尔伯特在独白中说。“他因为《名人学徒》(Celebrity Apprentice)被提名过很多次，但从未赢过。你们为什么不发给他一个艾美奖呢？我告诉你们，如果他赢得了艾美奖，我敢打赌他不会去竞选总统。所以从某种程度上说，这是你们的错。”
Mr. Colbert added soon after: “What really matters to Donald Trump is ratings. You’ve got to have the big numbers. And I certainly hope we achieved that tonight.”
科尔伯特很快又接着说：“对唐纳德·特朗普来说，真正重要的是收视率。你得有很高的收视率。所以我自然希望我们今晚能实现这一点。”
And then in the first surprise of the night, Sean Spicer, the former White House press secretary, rolled onto the stage behind a lectern like the one immortalized by Melissa McCarthy in her portrayal of him on “Saturday Night Live.”
然后，出现了当晚的第一个惊喜。前白宫发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)站在一个类似梅丽莎· 麦卡锡(Melissa McCarthy)在《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)里扮演他时用的那种移动讲台的后面登场了。
“This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period,” said Mr. Spicer, mocking his similar pronouncement in January about the crowd size at Mr. Trump’s presidential inauguration.
“这将是艾美奖有史以来观众最多的一次，我把话放这了，”斯派塞模仿1月谈到参加特朗普总统就职仪式的人群规模时的语气说。
It turned out that Mr. Spicer was wrong on both occasions. The Emmys on Sunday were watched by 11.4 million people, according to Nielsen data — about the same as last year, which was the lowest ever.
事实证明，斯派塞两次都错了。尼尔森(Nielsen)的数据显示，周日的艾美奖颁奖典礼只有1140万人观看，和去年差不多，是有史以来最低的。
Mr. Trump never won an Emmy for his reality television show, but he got close on Sunday. The actor Alec Baldwin won for his impersonation of the president on “Saturday Night Live.”
特朗普从来没有因为在电视真人秀中的表现而获艾美奖，但周日当天，他离获奖很近了。演员亚历克·鲍德温(Alec Baldwin)因在《周六夜现场》模仿特朗普而获奖。
“I suppose I should say, at long last, Mr. President, here is your Emmy,” Mr. Baldwin said.
“我想，最后我应该说，总统先生，这是你的艾美奖，”鲍德温说。