WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he had fallen short in the popular vote in the general election only because millions of people had voted illegally, leveling his claim — despite the absence of any such evidence — as part of a daylong storm of Twitter posts voicing anger about a three-state recount push.
华盛顿――周日的Twitter上，对于三州推动重新计算总统选举选票的愤怒之声掀起了为期一天的风暴，候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)也加入其中，他声称自己在大选的普选中之所以落后，是因为有数百万人非法投票――尽管这一说法没有任何证据。
“In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally,” Trump wrote Sunday afternoon.
特朗普在周日下午写道：“除了以压倒性的胜利赢得选举团投票，我还赢下了普选，如果你扣除数百万人的非法投票。”
The series of posts came one day after Hillary Clinton’s campaign said it would participate in a recount effort being undertaken in Wisconsin, and potentially in similar pushes in Michigan and Pennsylvania, by Jill Stein, who was the Green Party candidate.
这一系列的推文是在希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)阵营声称将参与威斯康星州重新计票的活动一天后发表的，他们或许也将参与到密歇根州和宾夕法尼亚州类似的推动活动中去，这些活动是由绿党候选人吉尔·斯坦(Jill Stein)发起的。
The Twitter outburst came as Trump is laboring to fill crucial positions in his Cabinet, with his advisers enmeshed in a rift over whom he should select as secretary of state. On Sunday morning, Kellyanne Conway, a top adviser, extended a public campaign to undermine one contender, Mitt Romney. She accused Romney of having gone “out of his way to hurt” Trump during the Republican primary contests.
在Twitter上的爆发正值特朗普努力填补内阁关键职位之际，他的顾问们就国务卿的人选陷入了分歧。周日早上，他的一名顶级顾问凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)延续了针对其中一个竞争者米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的公开打击。她指责罗姆尼在共和党初选中“不遗余力地去伤害”特朗普。
Officially, Trump’s transition team has dismissed the recount effort as “ridiculous” and a “scam.”
特朗普的过渡团队已经正式把重新计票的努力斥为“荒唐”之举和一场“骗局”。
Trump appeared fixated Sunday on the recount and his electoral performance. In a series of midafternoon Twitter posts, Trump boasted that he could have easily won the “so-called popular vote” if he had campaigned only in “3 or 4” states, presumably populous ones.
周日，特朗普似乎异常关注重新计票一事以及自己在选举中的表现。当天下午三点左右，特朗普发了多个Twitter帖子，吹嘘道：如果当初只在“三或四个州”开展竞选活动，他可以轻而易举地赢得“所谓的普选”。估计他在这里说的是人口最多的那几个州。
The afternoon messages followed a string of early-morning Twitter posts in which the president-elect railed against the recount efforts. In an initial post at 7:19, Trump wrote: “Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change.”
此前，候任总统在当天早晨也发了一系列帖子，猛烈抨击重新计票的做法。在发于7点19分的第一则帖子里，特朗普写道：“选举结果出来以后，希拉里·克林顿在我发表胜选演说之前不久打来电话，对结果予以认可。一切都不会改变。”
He noted that in her concession speech, Clinton had urged people to respect the vote results.
他指出，克林顿在败选演说中曾敦促人们尊重选举结果。
“'We have to accept the results and look to the future, Donald Trump is going to be our President,'” Trump wrote on Twitter, quoting Clinton. “'We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead.’ So much time and money will be spent — same result! Sad.”
“‘我们必须接受结果，面向未来。唐纳德·特朗普将要成为我们的总统，’”特朗普在Twitter上援引了克林顿的话。“‘我们应当用开放的心胸去接纳他，给予他领导美国的机会。’因此即便花费再多时间和金钱，也只能得到同样的结果！悲哀啊。”