WASHINGTON — Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, politicians have periodically announced with fanfare that they would introduce a bill to strip the citizenship of Americans accused of terrorism. The idea tends to attract brief attention, but then fades away, in part because the Supreme Court long ago ruled that the Constitution does not permit the government to take a person’s citizenship against his or her will.
华盛顿——自2001年的9·11恐怖袭击事件以来，政客们过段时间就会大张旗鼓地宣布他们会提出一项议案，用以剥夺被指控犯有恐怖主义罪行的美国人的公民身份。这种想法往往吸引人们短暂的注意力，然后便渐渐消逝，部分原因在于最高法院很早以前就裁定，宪法不允许政府在违反一个人的意愿的情况下，剥夺其公民身份。
But Tuesday, President-elect Donald Trump revived the idea and took it much further than the extreme case of a suspected terrorist. He proposed that Americans who protest government policies by burning the flag could lose their citizenship — meaning, among other things, their right to vote in future elections — as punishment.
但是在周二，当选总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)重新提出这种想法，并将它推进到远不限于恐怖主义嫌疑人极端个案的程度。他提议对于以烧国旗等形式抗议政府政策的美国人，可以剥夺其公民身份——意味着他们会失去多项权利，包括在未来的选举中投票的权利——以示惩戒。
“Nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag — if they do, there must be consequences — perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!” Trump wrote in a 6:55 a.m. Twitter post.
“没人应该可以烧国旗——如果他们这么做，就必须承担后果——或许失去公民权或住一年监狱！”特朗普于凌晨6点55分在Twitter上写道。
Trump wrote the post shortly after Fox News aired a segment about a dispute at Hampshire College in Massachusetts, which removed the U.S. flag from its campus flagpole after protests over his election victory; during one demonstration, someone burned a flag.
特朗普发布这则帖子不久前，福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)播出了一段有关马萨诸塞州罕布什尔学院(Hampshire College)一起争端的节目。节目显示，在就特朗普胜选表示抗议之后，该学院从校园的旗杆上摘下了国旗；在一次示威游行活动中，有人烧掉了一面国旗。
Even if Trump could persuade Congress to enact a criminal statute, anyone convicted and sentenced under it could point to clear Supreme Court precedents to make the case for a constitutional violation.
就算特朗普能说服国会通过一项法案，那些因该法案被定罪或判决的人都可以援引明确的最高法院判例，来说明对他们的惩罚违宪。
The obstacles include the precedent that the Constitution does not allow the government to expatriate Americans against their will, through a landmark 1967 case, Afroyim v. Rusk. They also include a 1989 decision, Texas v. Johnson, in which the court struck down criminal laws banning flag burning, ruling that the act was a form of political expression protected by the First Amendment.
这些障碍包括宪法不允许政府违反公民意愿将其逐出本国的判例，该判例是通过1967年那个里程碑性的阿弗罗伊姆诉鲁斯克案(Afroyim v. Rusk)确立的。还有1989年有关德克萨斯州诉约翰逊案(Texas v. Johnson)的裁决，其中法院推翻了禁止燃烧国旗的刑法条例，裁定这种行为是一种受第一修正案(First Amendment)保护的政治表达。
David D. Cole, a Georgetown University law professor who co-wrote the Supreme Court briefs in the flag-burning case, called Trump’s proposal “beyond the pale.”
乔治城大学(Georgetown University)法学教授戴维·D·科尔(David D. Cole)称特朗普的提议“超出了可以接受的范围”。在那起燃烧国旗案中，戴维与人合写了最高法院审判阶段的案情摘要。
“To me it is deeply troubling that the person who is going to become the most powerful government official in the United States doesn’t understand the first thing about the First Amendment,” he said.
“那个即将成为美国最有权势的政府官员的人一点也不懂第一修正案，这在我看来是极为让人不安的事，”他说。