Donald Trump has spent his whole life overselling an overinflated vision of himself and his success.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)一辈子都在大肆兜售有关他和他的成功的言过其实的想象。
He was the outer-borough boy whose father’s “boxlike office” was on Avenue Z in Brooklyn; he always dreamed of making it to Manhattan and breaking into the big league.
他当年是一个外城男孩，他父亲那像盒子一样的办公室位于布鲁克林的Z大道上(Avenue Z)上；他一直梦想到曼哈顿去，闯进那个顶尖精英的世界。
With a hustler’s spirit and some sleight of hand, he made it, but not in total.
凭借其不知疲倦的精神和一些巧妙伎俩，他做到了，但并不完全。
He made the move, made the money and made his mark on New York’s skyline, but he never quite made it into the inner sanctum of New York high society.
他换了地方，赚了钱，还在纽约的天际线留下自己的标记，但他始终没能真的打进纽约上流社会。
I’m convinced that this is part of his obsession with former President Barack Obama. Obama was quickly granted the thing Trump never had: upper-class acceptance and adulation.
我相信这是前任总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)让他感到耿耿于怀的一个地方。奥巴马很快就获得了特朗普一直不曾得到的东西：上流社会的接纳和赞誉。
For Trump’s part, his sin was even worse than being new-money: He was tacky rich.
就特朗普而言，他的罪过甚至超过了暴发户：他是个缺乏品位的富人。
No amount of money or success could completely rid him of the odiousness of being coarse and crass.
多少金钱和成功都不能完全抹除他身上那种让人厌恶的粗鲁和愚昧。
He upset social conventions.
他打破了社会常规。
For him, things had to be gilded to be glamorous. All modesty — either real or contrived to guard against exposure — was absent from the man. He was a glutton for attention and adoration. He chased the spotlight and pimped celebrity for profit. He valued flaunting over philanthropy.
对他来说，只有金光闪闪的事物才令人向往。这个男人身上看不到一点点谦卑——不管是真正的谦逊，还是为避免暴露本性而设法做到的。他痴迷于追求别人的关注和歌功颂德。为了获利，他追逐聚光灯的光束，利用名气来牟利。他更注重炫耀，而不是慈善。
In New York City’s elite social circles, Trump was persona non grata.
在纽约的精英社交圈里，特朗普是个不受欢迎的角色。
As many others have pointed out, he became the idiot’s image of an intellectual, the coward’s image of a courageous man and the pauper’s image of a prosperous man.
就像其他许多人已经指出的，他成了傻子眼中的知识分子，懦夫眼中的勇士，乞丐眼中的富人。
But rather than being crimped by his ostracism, he wore it as a badge of honor.
但他非但没有因遭排斥而退缩，反倒将之当作荣誉奖章进行展示。
He became the Everyman of rich men. He was the outsider, too authentic and even acerbic to be tamed by the convention of the elites. He was the populist billionaire, still engaged in the rough and tumble, at home on reality television just as he was in overpriced real estate.
他成了有钱人里的老百姓。他是个圈外人，太真实，甚至尖刻，难以遵守精英阶层的规则。他是民粹主义亿万富翁，依然在国内的真人秀节目上赤膊上阵，就像他在价格高企的房地产市场上所做的那样。
He was impolitic in the way that many average Joes would be if they came into wealth and not from it.
他的不遵规守矩和许多普通人是一样的，如果他们是后来发家而非天生富有，也会如此。
He swept into politics at just the time that message had its greatest resonance, when there were enough people leery of institutions and weary of the establishment; the wealthy, social, cultural and intellectual elites were on the outs, and there was an opening for an outsider who knew how to work his way in.
他被卷入政界的时机恰好是那个信息能引发最大共鸣的时候，当时有足够多的人对现有体制心存疑虑，对权威心生厌倦；社会、文化和知识领域的精英阶层在被赶下台，给知道如何潜入的圈外人以可乘之机。
The elites who had rejected Trump were now the rejected class. They were the 1 percent, the Wall Street barons, the manifestation of the evils of income inequality. This was the time for a populist, or at least someone who could pretend to be one.
过去排斥特朗普的精英们现在成了被排斥的阶层。他们是那1%的人，那些华尔街大亨，是收入不平等这种罪恶的实证。这是民粹主义者——或者至少能假装是的人——的时代。
It was in that environment that Trump swept into the presidential election, with the same bluster and bravado, aggression and subversion that had worked well for him in business.
正是那这种环境下，特朗普凭借着在他过去的生意中行之有效的的盛气凌人和虚张声势、侵略性与颠覆性，闯入了总统大选。
He was not book smart or well mannered. He was all gut and elbow and verbal barbs. For too many, he was refreshingly anti-polish and anti-convention.
他既不具备书本智慧，也没有得当的举止。他全靠本能与拳打脚踢，及利齿尖牙。对太多人来说，他是让人耳目一新的反精致与反常规人物。
And, as is Trump’s wont and calling card, he oversold his voters a bill of goods that he would never be able to deliver. The Pied Piper of pipe dreams did in politics what he had done in business: He got people to buy into a success mythology in which he was a wizard. In this mythology, ethics, honor and truth are casualties.
如同他一贯的标志性做法，特朗普向选民兜售了一大堆他将永远无法兑现的好处。这位编造白日梦的“花衣吹笛人”(Pied Piper)在政界做了他在商界曾经做过的事：让人们相信一种成功神话，而他就是其中的法师。在这个神话中，道德、节操和真相都是被牺牲的对象。
Everything is going to be the greatest and the best and the most successful simply because he deems it so.
所有的一切都会是最伟大、最好和最成功的，只因他是这么认为的。
But now, the legend of Trump, the one most rigid in his own mind, is rubbing up against the harsh reality of presidential politics, where cooperation is needed and accountability is demanded. In this new world, Trumpism appears brittle, hollow and impotent.
但现在，特朗普的传奇——在他自己看来最牢不可破的一个——在与总统政治的严酷现实发生摩擦，那里需要合作，有承担责任的要求。在这个新世界里，特朗普主义显得脆弱、空洞而又无力。
No matter your politics, Trump’s first weeks in office have been a disaster, as his rush to action, lack of focus and absence of acuity have led him to calamitous missteps and conspiratorial misstatements.
不管你持什么样的政治观点，都无法否认特朗普上任后这几周是一场灾难。他急于行动，缺乏专注，不够敏锐，这导致他走上了有着灾难性结局的道路，说出了含有阴谋论意味的错误言辞。
And now his oversold promises are being exposed for the lies they were — draining the swamp in Washington, forcing Mexico to pay for his ridiculous southern border wall, the incredibly defective Obamacare repeal and replacement proposal.
如今他那些过度兜售的承诺，在被暴露出其谎言的真实面目——抽干华盛顿的沼泽，迫使墨西哥为他荒唐的南部边境墙提议买单，极其有问题的撤销和替换“奥巴马医改”(Obamacare)的提议。
In January, Trump oversold again in an interview with The Washington Post about what he would deliver. The Post reported Trump’s comments this way:
今年1月，特朗普在接受《华盛顿邮报》采访时再次用力兜售自己的承诺。邮报这样报道了特朗普的那番话：
“We’re going to have insurance for everybody,” Trump said. “There was a philosophy in some circles that if you can’t pay for it, you don’t get it. That’s not going to happen with us.” People covered under the law “can expect to have great health care. It will be in a much simplified form. Much less expensive and much better.”
“我们会让所有人都有保险，”特朗普说。“在某些圈子里存在这样一种哲学，就是如果你不花钱，就别想拥有它。我们不会遭遇这种情况。”被这项法规覆盖的人们“将拥有很棒的医保。它的形式会更简单。价格便宜很多，保障要好得多。”
But the plan just announced and endorsed by Trump doesn’t even come close to delivering on this promise. Not only would prices most likely rise for many Trump voters, but millions of Americans would be at risk of losing coverage under the plan.
但特朗普刚刚宣布和支持的那项计划远远谈不上兑现了这项承诺。在这项计划之下，不仅价格对许多特朗普选民来说很可能会上涨，还有数百万美国人将面临失去医保的危险。
Not only that, but as NBC reported last month:
不仅如此，NBC上月还报道：
“Donald Trump’s most ardent supporters are likely to be hit the hardest if he makes good on his promise to dismantle the Affordable Care Act and embark on trade wars with China and Mexico.”
“如果唐纳德·特朗普兑现承诺，废除《平价医疗费用法案》（Affordable Care Act，简称ACA），与中国和墨西哥发生贸易战，他最热情的支持者有可能是受打击最大的群体。”
The report continued:
报道接着称：
“An analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 6.3 million of the 11.5 million Americans who used the A.C.A. marketplace to buy their insurance last year live in Republican congressional districts. Policy analysts say that a rollback of the A.C.A. would hurt older and rural Americans — two populations that favored Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton in the presidential election.”
“凯泽家族基金会(Kaiser Family Foundation)的一项分析发现，在去年利用ACA市场购买保险的1150万美国人中，有630万生活在共和党国会选区。政策分析人士表示，废除ACA将损害年长的美国人和乡村美国人的利益，也就是大选中更支持唐纳德·特朗普而非希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)两个群体。”
As he has done his whole life, Trump has sold those who follow him as some sort of money-drenched messiah a bill of goods, but this time the lie is likely to manifest in loss of life, as sick people lose coverage.
就像他一辈子所做的那样，特朗普给那些像追随有大把金钱的救星一样追随他的人兜售了一大堆好处，但这一次这个谎言有可能在损失人命的情况下暴露其本质——当病人失去医疗保险时。
Donald Trump has sold his supporters — and by extension, this country — a ticket to hell.
唐纳德·特朗普卖给他的支持者的，是一张通往地狱的门票。往大了说，他对这个国家也做了同样的事。