NEW YORK — The way Donald Trump tells it, his first solo project as a real estate developer, the conversion of a faded railroad hotel on 42nd Street into the sleek, 30-story Grand Hyatt, was a triumph from the very beginning.
纽约——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在讲述自己作为真正的地产商开发的第一个独立项目时——把第42街上的一个衰败的铁路酒店改造成华丽的30层君悦酒店(Grand Hyatt)——说它从一开始就很成功。
The hotel, Trump bragged in “Trump: The Art of the Deal,” his 1987 best-seller, “was a hit from the first day. Gross operating profits now exceed $30 million a year.”
特朗普在他1987年的畅销书《特朗普：交易的艺术》(Trump: The Art of the Deal)中夸耀说，这家酒店“从第一天起就很热门。现在每年的总营业利润超过3000万美元”。
But that book, and numerous interviews over the years, make little mention of a crucial factor in getting the hotel built: an extraordinary 40-year tax break that has cost New York City $360 million to date in forgiven, or uncollected, taxes, with four years still to run, on a property that cost only $120 million to build in 1980.
不过，那本书以及这些年的无数评论都几乎没有提到该酒店得以修建的一个关键因素：40年的特殊税收减免，到目前免除或未收取的税额已使纽约市损失3.6亿美元，还有四年才到期，而该产业1980年修建时的成本仅为1.2亿美元。
The project set the pattern for Trump’s New York career: He used his father’s, and, later, his own, extensive political connections, and relied on a huge amount of assistance from the government and taxpayers in the form of tax breaks, grants and incentives to benefit the 15 buildings at the core of his Manhattan real estate empire.
这个项目奠定了特朗普在纽约的事业模式：他利用父亲——后来是他自己的——庞大政治关系网，依靠政府的大量支持，并以税收减免、拨款和奖励等形式利用纳税人，使他的曼哈顿地产帝国核心的15幢建筑获利。
Since then, Trump has reaped at least $885 million in tax breaks, grants and other subsidies for luxury apartments, hotels and office buildings in New York, according to city tax, housing and finance records. The subsidies helped him lower his own costs and sell apartments at higher prices because of their reduced taxes.
据纽约市的税收、住房和财政记录，从那时起，特朗普在纽约的高档公寓楼、酒店和写字楼享受的税收减免、拨款和其他补贴高达8.85亿美元。这些补贴帮他降低了成本，因为降低了税收，他的公寓又可以以更高的价格卖出。
Trump, the Republican nominee for president, has made clear over the course of his campaign how proud he is that “as a businessman I want to pay as little tax as possible.”
在竞选期间，共和党总统提名人特朗普明确表示，“作为一名商人，我想尽可能少地缴税”，并为此感到非常自豪。
While it is impossible to assess how much Trump pays in personal or corporate income taxes, because he has refused to release his tax returns, an examination of his record as a New York developer shows how aggressively he has fought to lower the taxes on his projects.
尽管不可能搞清楚特朗普究竟缴纳了多少个人和企业所得税——因为他拒绝公布自己的纳税申报单——但对他在纽约的地产开发记录进行研究，可以发现他如何竭力争取压低旗下项目的税额。
Trump successfully sued the administrations of Mayors Edward I. Koch, Rudy Giuliani and Michael R. Bloomberg after they denied him tax breaks for Trump Tower, his signature building on Fifth Avenue, and, two decades later, for Trump World Tower, on First Avenue, for what were some of the highest-priced condominiums in the city in 2001.
特朗普曾对爱德华·I·科赫(Edward I. Koch)、鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)和迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)三任市长领导的政府提起诉讼，并获得胜利。起诉的原因是，政府拒绝为特朗普在第五大道上的标志性建筑特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)和20年后的第一大道上的特朗普世界大厦(Trump World Tower)提供税收优惠。后者出售的共管公寓属于2001年纽约城标价最高之列。
The tax breaks for those two projects alone totaled $157 million.
单单这两个项目获得的税收优惠总额就达到1.57亿美元。
The tax break at the 44-story Trump International Hotel and Tower at Columbus Circle came to $15.9 million.
位于哥伦布圆环的44层特朗普国际酒店大厦(Trump International Hotel and Tower)获得了1590万美元的税收优惠。
No possible subsidy was left untapped. After the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, Trump lined up a $150,000 grant for one of his buildings near ground zero, taking advantage of a program to help small businesses in the area recover, even though he had acknowledged on the day of the attacks that his building was undamaged.
他也不会错过任何补贴。在世界贸易中心(World Trade Center)遭遇恐怖袭击之后，特朗普利用一项帮助该地区小企业恢复的项目，为他靠近世贸中心遗址的一座大楼申请了价值15万美元的补助，尽管他在遇袭当天就承认这座大楼并没有受损。
“Donald Trump is probably worse than any other developer in his relentless pursuit of every single dime of taxpayer subsidies he can get his paws on,” said Alicia Glen, Mayor Bill de Blasio’s deputy mayor for housing and economic development, who first battled Trump when she worked in Giuliani’s administration.
“唐纳德·特朗普绝不会放过自己所能染指的任何一分钱的纳税人补贴，可以说在这方面，没有哪个开发商能比得过他，”白思豪(Bill de Blasio)政府负责住房与经济发展的副市长艾丽西亚·格伦(Alicia Glen)说。在为朱利亚尼市政府工作期间，她首次与特朗普进行过较量。
In seeking those subsidies, Trump is not that different from many other developers. But the level of subsidies he has received along with his doggedness in claiming them seem at odds with his rhetoric as an outsider candidate who boasts of his single-handed success and who has denounced what he calls the pay-to-play culture of politics and a “rigged” system of government.
在寻求获得补贴上，特朗普与其他许多开发商没有多大的不同。但他获得补贴的规模和在此事上的汲汲营营，与他作为外来竞选人所夸谈的东西不符。他宣称靠一己之力获得成功，并反复谴责他所说的付费入场的政治文化和“被操纵的”政府体系。
Without addressing specific questions about his pursuit of tax breaks and other subsidies, Trump in a telephone interview defended going after them. “In many cases, they made the difference between building and not being able to build,” he said. “I’ve gotten incentives in other parts of the world as well.”
在接受电话采访时，特朗普没有回应针对他追求税收优惠和其他补贴的具体问题，反倒为自己的此类行为进行辩护。“在很多情况下，它们关系到一栋楼能不能建成，”他说。“我在世界其他地方也获得了优惠。”
AN UNPRECEDENTED BREAK
史无前例的优惠力度
In the mid-1970s, eager to make his mark in Manhattan, the 30-year-old Trump focused his attention on the failing Commodore Hotel on East 42nd Street, next to Grand Central Terminal. The owner, the bankrupt Penn Central Railroad, was keen to sell.
在70年代中期，30岁的特朗普渴望在曼哈顿留下自己印记，他将目光投向了位于第42街上的紧邻中央车站的海军准将酒店(Commodore Hotel)。已经破产的宾夕法尼亚中央铁路公司(Penn Central Railroad)正急着出售该酒店。
It did not seem like an auspicious plan. The city was in the midst of both its own fiscal crisis and a broader economic one; the neighborhood near the terminal had gotten seedy; and Trump did not have the capital for the project. He needed his father, Fred C. Trump, to guarantee a portion of the construction loan. Hyatt, which was going to run the hotel, took a 50 percent stake in exchange for guaranteeing the rest of the project.
它看起来并不像一门好生意。纽约城正处在财务危机和更大规模的经济危机中；中央车站附近的社区已经变得有些破败；特朗普没有开发这个项目的资金。他需要父亲弗雷德·C·特朗普(Fred C. Trump)为他担保一部分建设贷款。将负责运营该商业地产的君悦酒店担保提供项目其余资金，以此换取50%的股份。
But Trump insisted that the project was not viable without a tax break from the city.
但特朗普坚持表示，如果不能获得市政府的税收优惠，这个项目便行不通。
In pressing for government approval, Trump proved to be the quintessential insider, at least through his father: The elder Trump was a major contributor to and friend of Mayor Abraham D. Beame and Gov. Hugh L. Carey, both Democrats.
迫使政府批准减税，证明特朗普是典型的有内部关系的人，至少通过他父亲做到了这一点：弗雷德·特朗普是市长亚伯拉罕·D·比姆(Abraham D. Beame)和州长休·L·凯里(Hugh L. Carey)的主要捐款人与朋友，后两位都是民主党人。
“Fred was a big macher in Brooklyn,” said Martin J. McLaughlin, a lobbyist who worked for Donald Trump in the 1990s. “He had an extremely close relationship with Beame and Carey.”
“弗雷德是布鲁克林的大人物，”曾在90年代为唐纳德·特朗普工作的说客马丁·J·麦克劳克林(Martin J. McLaughlin)说。“他与比姆和凯里关系极为密切。”
Trump visited a young city official, Michael Bailkin, who devised a plan centered on a 40-year tax abatement, still the longest ever granted by the city, under which the state would own the land beneath the hotel and lease it to the partnership for $1 a year.
特朗普拜访了纽约市政府的年轻官员迈克尔·拜尔肯(Michael Bailkin)，后者围绕着为期40年的税收减免制订了一项方案——这至今仍是纽约市给出的期限最长的税收优惠。根据该方案，纽约州将拥有酒店底下的土地，并以每年1美元的价格出租给这个合伙企业。
“I viewed him as another developer, one with limited experience, but coming from a family with a lot of experience,” Bailkin recalled in an interview.
“我当时将他视为一个普普通通的开发商，自身经验虽然有限，但却来自经验丰富的家族，”拜尔肯接受采访时回忆。
Trump had one other qualification. “He did say,” Bailkin added, “the administration would support it.”
特朗普还有另外一张王牌。“他的确说过，”拜尔肯补充道，“市政府会支持它。”
Carey was on board. But Trump needed the state’s Urban Development Corp. to go along. He hired Louise Sunshine, the governor’s chief fundraiser, who arranged a meeting with the head of the agency, Richard Ravitch.
凯里被说服了。但特朗普还需要纽约州城市开发公司(Urban Development Corp.)的支持。他雇用了州长的首席募款人路易丝·森夏恩(Louise Sunshine)，后者安排他和该机构的负责人理查德·拉维奇(Richard Ravitch)碰了一次面。
Ravitch said in a recent interview that he responded frankly after Trump laid out the project: “It’d be great to have a Hyatt on 42nd Street. I thought it’d be successful. But I don’t think it should be exempt from taxation.”
拉维奇最近接受采访时表示，他在特朗普介绍完项目之后坦率地回应：“第42街上有一家君悦是件好事，我相信它会大获成功。但我并不认为它应该获得税收减免。”
Trump stood up, Ravitch recalled, “and said, ‘If you don’t give me an exemption I’ll have you fired.'”
拉维奇回忆，特朗普站起身，“说道：‘如果你不给我税收减免，我就让你丢掉差事。’”
Sunshine did not respond to requests for comment.
森夏恩未回应置评请求。
In the end, after phone calls from Beame and other Democratic politicians, Ravitch and the agency’s board voted to approve the project, though the partners in the hotel had to pay a modest rent for the land based on a percentage of their profits and allow for subway entrances to be built nearby.
最终，在比姆等民主党政界人士打了几通电话之后，拉维奇及其机构的董事会投票通过了这个项目。不过，酒店的合伙人必须拿出一定比例的利润来支付不多的土地租金，并允许在附近修建地铁入口。
Trump said the decision was made on the merits. “We were a contributor like many people were contributors,” he said. “But there never was a quid pro quo.”
特朗普称，这一决定是基于项目本身做出的。“我们和其他很多人一样，是捐款人，”他说。“但从未进行有偿交换。”
After a $120 million overhaul, the hotel, now sheathed in black glass, opened to great fanfare in 1980.
经过耗资1.2亿美元的大修，这座如今蒙着深色玻璃幕墙的酒店于1980年盛大开业。
Even before it opened, though, Trump had infuriated the new mayor, Koch, by reneging on the promise to allow for access to the subway on the east and west sides of the hotel.
不过，还没开业的时候，特朗普便背弃了允许在酒店东西两侧修建地铁入口的承诺，从而激怒了当时的新市长科赫。
Trump eventually granted the western easement and allowed the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to build a stairwell but shed his responsibility for the other entryway.
最终，特朗普在西侧土地的役地权问题上松了口，并允许大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)修建一个楼梯间，但他搪塞掉了自己对另一个地铁口的责任。
City officials initially estimated the tax break on the Hyatt was worth $4 million a year to Trump. But according to a recent analysis conducted by the city’s Finance Department at the request of The New York Times, the actual annual giveaway was far higher: $6.3 million in 1983, rising to $17.8 million in 2016. The combined value of the forgiven taxes is $359.3 million, with four years left on the abatement.
市政府官员起初估计，针对君悦的税收优惠每年会让特朗普省下400万美元。但纽约市财政局应《纽约时报》之邀于近日做的分析显示，每年的实际税收减免比这大得多：1983年为630万美元，到2016年增至1780万美元。这项税收优惠还有四年才到期，减免总额目前已达3.593亿美元。
Over the same period, the hotel’s owners have paid the city $202.5 million in rent and fees, according to the state agency overseeing the project, Empire State Development.
监管该项目的纽约州经济发展厅(Empire State Development)称，酒店所有者在同一时期向市里支付了2.025亿美元的租金和杂费。
Trump said the tax break did what it was supposed to do. “The hotel was a great success for the city,” he said. “It regenerated interest in that area.”
特朗普表示税收优惠发挥了该有的用途。“酒店对纽约城而言是巨大的成功，”他说。“它让人们对那一地区重新产生了兴趣。”