WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump formally abandoned the Trans-Pacific Partnership on Monday, pulling away from Asia and scrapping his predecessor’s most significant trade deal on his first full weekday in office, administration officials said.
华盛顿——本周一是唐纳德·特朗普总统就任后的第一个完整工作日，行政官员说，当天他正式取消了“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP），撤离亚洲，作废了上任总统最重要的贸易协议。
Trump sharply criticized the partnership agreement during last year’s campaign, calling it a bad deal for U.S. workers. Although the deal had not been approved by Congress, the decision to withdraw the American signature at the start of Trump’s administration is a signal that he plans to follow through on promises to take a more aggressive stance against foreign competitors.
特朗普在去年竞选期间就对这个协定发起尖锐批评，称TPP对美国工人来说是噩耗。虽然国会尚未批准这个协定，但是特朗普政府一上台就取消了美国签署TPP，这是一个信号，表明他打算兑现自己的承诺，对外国竞争对手采取更强势的立场。
In other action on a busy opening day, Trump ordered a hiring freeze in the federal workforce, exempting the military. And he reinstituted limits on nongovernmental organizations that operate overseas and receive U.S. taxpayer money from performing abortions. Republican presidents typically impose those restrictions soon after taking office, and Democratic presidents typically lift them when they take over.
在繁忙的第一个办公日，特朗普还下令暂时冻结对联邦雇员的聘用，军队除外。对于在海外开展活动，以及花美国纳税人的钱提供堕胎服务的非政府组织，他重新建立了限制。共和党总统通常在就职后不久就会施加这些限制，民主党总统通常在上台时会取消这些限制。
The president’s withdrawal from the Asian-Pacific trade pact amounted to a drastic reversal of decades of economic policy in which presidents of both parties have lowered trade barriers and expanded ties around the world. Although candidates have often criticized trade deals on the campaign trail, those who made it to the White House, including President Barack Obama, ended up extending their reach.
特朗普总统退出TPP是对几十年来美国经济政策的大逆转，在这些年里，两党总统都在降低贸易壁垒，扩大与世界各地的贸易联系。虽然候选人经常在竞选期间批评贸易协议，但是进入了白宫的人，包括奥巴马总统在内，最终都扩大了这类协议的影响范围。
“We’ve been talking about this for a long time,” Trump said as he signed a document formalizing his decision. The withdrawal from the trade pact, he added, is a “great thing for the American worker.”
“我们谈论这件事已经有很长时间了，”特朗普在签署TPP正式撤销的文件时说。他还表示说，退出该贸易协定对“美国工人是件大好事”。
Aides signaled that Trump may also move quickly on renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement. He is scheduling meetings with the leaders of Canada and Mexico, the two main partners in that pact. NAFTA has been a major driver of U.S. trade for nearly two decades, but it has long been divisive, with critics blaming it for lost jobs and lower wages.
助手们指出，特朗普还可能迅速采取行动，重新谈判《北美自由贸易协议》（North American Free Trade Agreement，简称NAFTA）。他正在安排与该条约的两个主要合作伙伴加拿大和墨西哥的领导人会谈。 NAFTA在近20年来一直是美国贸易的主要推动力，但人们对它的看法也是两极分化，批评者称它导致了失业和减薪。
Trump outlined his views in his Inaugural Address on Friday, when he promised an “America First” approach to the world. “We must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries making our products, stealing our companies and destroying our jobs,” he said. “Protection will lead to great prosperity and strength.”
特朗普在周五的就职演说中概述了他的看法，当时他承诺在国际问题上采取“美国优先”的方针。“我们必须保护边界，免受其他国家的蹂躏，那些国家制造我们的产品，偷窃我们的公司，破坏我们的工作机会，”他说。“只有保护才能让我们繁荣富强。”