Stephen Hawking, the great explainer of cosmic mysteries, is also known for sharing his wisdom on more earthly matters. He has weighed in on climate change (bold action is needed), boycotting Israel (he favored it), and the departure of Zayn Malik from the boy band One Direction (he could still be in the band in a parallel universe).
斯蒂芬·霍金(Stephen Hawking)不仅是伟大的宇宙奥秘解读者，也喜欢在世俗一些的事情上分享自己的智慧。他曾谈过气候变化（需要采取大胆的行动），对以色列的抵制（他赞同这么做），泽恩·马利克(Zayn Malik)离开男孩组合单向乐队(One Direction)单飞（在一个平行宇宙中，他可以仍然属于该乐队）。
But on ITV’s “Good Morning Britain” on Tuesday, Mr. Hawking, a theoretical physicist and best-selling author, acknowledged a mystery that he has found impenetrable.
不过，在ITV《早安英国》(Good Morning Britain)本周二的节目中，作为理论物理学家、畅销书作家，霍金承认自己发现了一个不可破解的谜团。
Asked to explain the political ascendance of Donald J. Trump, he said simply, “I can’t.”
节目组请霍金解释唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在政坛的崛起，他直接回答，“我解释不了。”
“He is a demagogue who seems to appeal to the lowest common denominator,” he said in prerecorded remarks.
“他是一个煽动者，似乎对最小公分母很有吸引力，”，霍金在预先录制的发言中说。
A message left with the Trump campaign on Tuesday was not immediately returned. The subject did not come up at a news conference that the Republican presidential candidate held in Manhattan on Tuesday.
本周二发给特朗普竞选团队的消息没有立即获得回应。这位共和党总统候选人当天在曼哈顿举行新闻发布会时也没有提到这件事。
Dr. Hawking may be the smartest person to admit being baffled by Mr. Trump’s unlikely path to the presumptive party nomination, but he is certainly not the first. Last year, pundits from across the American political spectrum pegged Mr. Trump’s chances at slim to none.
特朗普稳获党内提名一事大大出乎众人的意料，霍金可能是承认自己看不懂这条崛起之路的最聪明的人，但他肯定不是第一个。去年，全美各地的观察人士都认为特朗普的提名机会几乎为零。
At another point on “Good Morning Britain,” Dr. Hawking, who is British, weighed in on the contentious debate over whether the country should remain in the European Union, a process often referred to as Brexit.
在《早安英国》节目中，霍金还在有关“英国退出欧盟”(Brexit)的激烈辩论中发表了自己的看法。霍金本人是英国人。
“Gone are the days when we could stand on our own, against the world,” he said. “We need to be part of a larger group of nations, both for our security and our trade. The possibility of our leaving the E.U. has already led to a sharp fall in the pound, because the markets judge that it will damage our economy.”
“我们可以独自对抗世界的日子已经过去了，”他说。“我们需要成为一个更大的国家集团的一部分。这既是为了我们的安全，也是为了我们的贸易着想。我们离开欧盟的可能性已经导致英镑的暴跌，因为市场认为脱欧会损害我们的经济。”
Those who favor leaving argue that the country’s membership in the bloc has diminished British influence and sovereignty. A referendum is scheduled for June 23.
赞成脱欧的人认为，欧盟成员身份削弱了英国的影响力和主权。有关此事的公投定于6月23日进行。
Dr. Hawking, who has amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig’s disease, has also been a bullish advocate for people with disabilities, a group that has been critical of Mr. Trump.
霍金患有肌萎缩侧索硬化症，又称卢·格里克病。他也是一位积极的残障人士权益倡导者，而这些人大多对特朗普持批评态度。
During a campaign event in November, the candidate appeared to mock a reporter for The New York Times, who has a physical disability called arthrogryposis, which restricts the functioning of his joints.
在去年11月的一次竞选活动中，特朗普似乎对《纽约时报》的一位记者进行了嘲笑。此人有关节弯曲身体残疾，限制了他的关节功能。
“Now the poor guy, you ought to see this guy,” Mr. Trump said, before jerking his arms around.
“有个可怜的家伙，你们应该看看这个家伙，”特朗普说，然后朝着四周抽搐手臂。
Responding to criticism over the comments, Mr. Trump denied that he had intended to mock the reporter.
遭到批评后，特朗普否认他有意嘲笑这名记者。