WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald J. Trump said in an interview broadcast on Sunday that he did not believe American intelligence assessments that Russia had intervened to help his candidacy, casting blame for the reports on Democrats, who he said were embarrassed about losing to him.
华盛顿——候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在周日播放的一次采访中表示，他不相信美国情报机构做出的判断，即俄罗斯曾做出干预以帮助他竞选。他将这些报告归咎于民主党，说他们因为输给了他而感到难堪。
“I think it’s ridiculous. I think it’s just another excuse,” Mr. Trump said in the interview, on “Fox News Sunday.” “I don’t believe it.”
“我认为这很荒谬。我认为这只是又一个借口，”特朗普在《福克斯周日新闻》(Fox News Sunday)节目的采访中说，“我不相信。”
He also indicated that as president, he would not take the daily intelligence briefing that President Obama and his predecessors have received. Mr. Trump, who has received the briefing sparingly as president-elect, said that it was often repetitive and that he would take it “when I need it.” He said his vice president, Mike Pence, would receive the daily briefing.
他还指出，就任总统后，他不会像奥巴马总统及其前任们那样每天听取情报简报。作为候任总统，特朗普很少听取简报，称那往往是在重复，他只会在“我需要时”听取。他说，副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)将每天听取简报。
“You know, I’m, like, a smart person,” he said. “I don’t have to be told the same thing in the same words every single day for the next eight years.”
“你知道，我呢，是个聪明人，”他说，“我没必要在未来八年里，每天听别人用同样的话告知我同样的事情。”
He added that he had instructed the officials who give the briefing: “‘If something should change from this point, immediately call me. I’m available on a one-minute’s notice.’”
他还说，他已经给做简报的官员们下了指示：“如果出现了什么变化，马上给我打电话。我可以在一分钟内准备好。”
Mr. Trump’s seeming dismissal of the importance of that daily interaction with intelligence agencies, as well as his claims of politically tainted intelligence reports on Russia, widened a remarkable breach between a president-elect and the agencies he will have to rely on to carry out priorities like fighting terrorism and deterring cyberattacks.
特朗普似乎不看重与情报机构的每日互动，声称关于俄罗斯的情报报告受到了政治影响——这些都加深了这位候任总统与这些机构之间明显的裂痕，而他将不得不依赖它们去执行打击恐怖主义和遏制网络袭击等首要任务。
His stance on the issue is also putting him increasingly at odds with senior lawmakers on Capitol Hill, including members of his own party, who say that the evidence of Russian interference is clear and warrants a congressional investigation.
他在这个问题上的立场，也在加剧他与国会山的资深议员们的不合，包括他自己党派的一些成员，他们称，俄罗斯干预的证据很明显，国会应该进行调查。
The Obama administration reached a consensus months ago that Russia was trying to meddle in the election. After initially believing that Russia’s goal was to undermine American democratic processes, the intelligence agencies concluded a week after the vote that the Russian efforts had been intended, at least in their latter stages, to help Mr. Trump.
奥巴马政府在数月前就达成共识，认为俄罗斯在试图干预美国大选。情报机构最初认为俄罗斯的目的是破坏美国的民主进程，但是在大选结束一周后认为，俄罗斯的企图——至少在后期——是帮助特朗普。
The president-elect said those new reports were politically motivated. “I think the Democrats are putting it out because they suffered one of the greatest defeats in the history of politics in this country,” he said in the interview, recorded on Saturday. During the campaign, he also dismissed any suggestion of Russian meddling.
这位候任总统表示，这些新报告是出于政治动机。“我认为，民主党提出这个，是因为他们遭受了这个国家政治史上最沉重的失败，”他在周六录制的采访中说。在竞选过程中，他也驳斥了关于俄罗斯干预大选的所有观点。
Pressed about why he did not believe the intelligence agencies’ conclusions, Mr. Trump said there was disagreement among intelligence agencies about the extent and the origin of the hacking.
当被追问他为什么不相信情报机构的结论时，特朗普称，各情报机构对黑客袭击的范围和根源存在不同意见。
“They’re fighting among themselves,” he said. “They’re not sure.”
“他们在争执，”他说，“他们不确定。”
The Washington Post and The New York Times reported on Friday that American intelligence agencies had concluded that Russia took covert action during the campaign to harm the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. The new conclusion, The Times reported, was based in part on evidence found by the C.I.A. that Russian hackers had penetrated the Republican National Committee’s computer system, as well as that of the Democrats and several of Mrs. Clinton’s senior aides, but had leaked only Democratic correspondence.
周五，《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)和《纽约时报》(The New York Times)报道称，美国情报机构已经得出结论，俄罗斯在美国选举期间采取秘密行动，试图破坏希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选。时报报道称，这个新结论部分基于中央情报局(CIA)找到的证据——俄罗斯黑客除了攻入民主党以及克林顿几位高级助理的电脑系统，还攻入了共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)的电脑系统，但是仅泄露了民主党的通信记录。
Mr. Trump’s transition office responded to those reports with a blistering statement on Friday night dismissing the intelligence agencies as “the same people that said Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.” The office said it was time to “move on” from the election.
周五晚上，特朗普的过渡办公室以尖锐的措辞做出回应，称正是这些情报机构“当初说萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)拥有大规模杀伤性武器”。该办公室称，不要再纠结于大选，是时候“向前看”了。
The Iraq case has been the subject of a long-running debate over whether the intelligence was tainted or whether the Bush White House read it selectively to support its decision to go to war.
伊拉克的例子已成为一个长期争论的话题，有人认为是情报遭到了破坏，也有人认为是布什政府进行了选择性解读，以支持自己的开战决定。
On the subject of Russian interference, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said Sunday that it would be dangerous to dismiss the issue as a matter of partisan politics. He urged Mr. Trump to accept the agencies’ conclusions, and called on his colleagues to move forward with an investigation — an idea that was gaining momentum on Capitol Hill on Sunday.
在俄罗斯干预的问题上，亚利桑那州共和党参议员、军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)主席约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)周日表示，把这个问题淡化为党派政治将是危险的。他敦促特朗普认可那些机构的结论，呼吁同事们推进调查——周日，这一主张在国会山得到更多支持。
“You can’t make this issue partisan; it’s too important,” Mr. McCain said on the CBS program “Face the Nation.” “A fundamental of democracy is a free and fair election.”
“你不能把这个问题理解为党派纠纷，因为它太重要了，”麦凯恩在CBS《面对国民》(Face the Nation)节目中说。“民主的基础是自由、公正的选举。”
“It’s clear the Russians interfered,” he continued. “Now, whether they intended to interfere to the degree that they were trying to elect a certain candidate, I think that’s a subject of further investigation.”
“俄罗斯显然是干预了，”他继续说道。“至于他们是否打算干预到努力使某位候选人当选的程度，我觉得需要做进一步调查。”
Referring to the hacking efforts, Mr. McCain added, “The Russians have been using it as a tool as part of Vladimir Putin’s ambition to regain Russian prominence and dominance in some parts of the world.”
在提到黑客袭击时，麦凯恩补充说，“俄罗斯人把它用作一个工具，以实现弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的野心，让俄罗斯在世界上的某些地区重获主导权和支配权。”
Mr. McCain was among a bipartisan group of four senior lawmakers, including the coming minority leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, who issued a statement Sunday morning pledging to work to respond to the incursions. The statement adds pressure to Republicans, who control Congress, to investigate the hacking.
麦凯恩是一个由四名资深议员组成的跨党派小组的成员，包括即将上任的少数派领袖、纽约州参议员查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)。周日上午，该小组发布了一项声明，承诺将努力对这些入侵做出回应。该声明进一步向控制国会的共和党人施压，要求调查这次黑客袭击。
“Democrats and Republicans must work together, and across the jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to examine these recent incidents thoroughly and devise comprehensive solutions to deter and defend against further cyberattacks,” the statement said.
“民主党人和共和党人必须携手合作，在国会的所有管辖领域，彻底调查这些最新事件，制订全面解决方案，以遏制和打击更多的网络袭击，”声明称。