WASHINGTON — America, and the world, just found out what “America First” means.
华盛顿——美国和世界刚刚明白了“美国优先”是什么意思。
President Trump could have used his inaugural address to define one of the touchstone phrases of his campaign in the most inclusive way, arguing, as did many of his predecessors, that as the world’s greatest superpower rises, its partners will also prosper.
特朗普总统本来可以在就职演说上以最具包容性的方式解释其竞选活动中这个标志性的口号，就像他的很多前任那样说，随着世界上最大超级大国的兴起，它的合作伙伴也会变得繁荣富庶。
Instead, he chose a dark, hard-line alternative, one that appeared to herald the end of a 70-year American experiment to shape a world that will be eager to follow its lead. In Mr. Trump’s vision, America’s new strategy is to win every transaction and confrontation. Gone are the days, he said, when America extends its defensive umbrella without compensation, or spends billions to try to lift the fortune of foreign nations, with no easy-to-measure strategic benefits for the United States.
但他选择了一个黑暗、强势的说法，似乎预示着美国70年来想要让这个世界渴望追随其领导的实验结束了。在特朗普的愿景中，美国的新战略是赢得每一笔交易、每一个对抗。他说，美国曾经在其他国家没有给钱的情况下扩大自己的防御保护伞，花费数以十亿计的美元促进外国的繁荣，这么做对美国缺乏易于衡量的战略利益。
“From this moment on, it’s going to be America First,” he said, in a line that resonated around the world as soon as he uttered it from the steps of the Capitol. “We must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries making our products, stealing our companies, and destroying our jobs.”
“从这一刻起，就是美国优先了，”他在国会大厦的台阶上说出这句话来，立刻在世界各地引起了回响。“我们必须保护边界，免受其他国家的蹂躏，那些国家制造我们的产品，偷窃我们的公司，破坏我们的工作机会。”
The United States, he said, will no longer subsidize “the armies of other countries while allowing for the very sad depletion of our military.”
他说，美国不再为“其他国家的军队提供补贴，让自己的军队悲伤地失血”。
While all American presidents pledge to defend America’s interests first — that is the core of the presidential oath — presidents of both parties since the end of World War II have wrapped that effort in an expansion of the liberal democratic order. Until today, American policy has been a complete rejection of the America First rallying call that Charles Lindbergh championed when, in the late 1930s, he became one of the most prominent voices to keep America out of Europe’s wars, even if it meant abandoning our closest allies.
虽然所有的美国总统都承诺要优先捍卫美国的利益——这是总统誓言的核心——但自二战结束以来，两党的总统都把这种努力包裹在广泛的自由民主秩序之中。直到今天，美国政策都完全否定查尔斯·林德伯格(Charles Lindbergh)倡导的那种美国优先。在1930年代后期，一些人要求美国置欧洲的战争于不顾，即使这意味着放弃我们最亲密的盟国，而林德伯格是其中最有名的倡导者之一。
After World War II, the United States buried the Lindbergh vision of America First. The United Nations was born in San Francisco and raised on the East River of Manhattan, an ambitious, if still unfulfilled, experiment in shaping a liberal order. Lifting the vanquished nations of World War II into democratic allies was the idea behind the Marshall Plan, the creation of the World Bank and institutions to spread American aid, technology and expertise around the world. And NATO was created to instill a commitment to common defense, though Mr. Trump has accurately observed that 60 years later, many of its member nations do not pull their weight.
二战后，美国埋葬了林德伯格“美国优先”的愿景。联合国在旧金山诞生，在曼哈顿东河上崛起，这是一个雄心勃勃的自由主义秩序试验，虽然可能尚未实现。把二战的参战国发展为与美国结盟的民主国家是马歇尔计划(Marshall Plan)背后的意图，世界银行(World Bank)和一些机构成立，在世界各地传播美国的援助、技术和专门知识。北约成立起来，是为了逐步灌输对共同防御的承诺，虽然特朗普已经准确地发现，60年后，很多成员国没有履行义务。
Mr. Trump’s defiant address made abundantly clear that his threat to pull out of those institutions, if they continue to take advantage of American willingness to subsidize them, could soon be translated into policy. All those decades of generosity, he said, punching the air for emphasis, had turned America into a loser.
特朗普在反对声明中非常清楚地表示，如果这些国家继续占美国自觉自愿补贴这些机构的便宜，他退出这些机构的威胁很快就会转化为政策。这几十年来的慷慨大方已经让美国成了输家，作为强调，他边说边挥了一下拳头。
“We’ve made other countries rich,” he said, “while the wealth, strength and confidence of our country has disappeared over the horizon.” The American middle class has suffered the most, he said, finding its slice of the American dream “redistributed across the entire world.”
“我们让其他国家变得富庶起来，”他说，“而我们的财富、实力和信心却消失在了地平线上。”美国中产阶级受到的损害最大，他们发现自己的美国梦“在全世界被重新分配了”，他说道。
To those who helped build that international order, Mr. Trump’s vow was at best shortsighted. “Truman and Acheson, and everyone who followed, based our policy on a ‘world-first,’ not an ‘America-first,’ basis,” said Richard Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations.
对于那些帮助建立国际秩序的人，特朗普的说法充其量也是缺乏远见的。美国外交关系委员会主席理查德·哈斯(Richard Haass)说：“杜鲁门和艾奇逊，以及之后诸位，都是把‘世界优先’而不是‘美国优先’作为政策基石的。”
Mr. Haass’s new book, “A World in Disarray,” argues that a more granular, short-term view of American interests will ultimately fail.
哈斯的新书《混乱的世界》(A World in Disarray)声称，更斤斤计较、更短视地看待美国利益最终会导致失败。
“A narrow America First posture will prompt other countries to pursue an equally narrow, independent foreign policy,” he said after Mr. Trump’s speech, “which will diminish U.S. influence and detract from global prosperity.”
“狭隘的美国优先姿态，会促使其他国家采取同样狭隘的独立外交政策，”他在特朗普发表讲话之后说道。“这将降低美国的影响力，削弱全球繁荣。”
To Mr. Trump and his supporters, it is just that view that put America on the slippery slope to obsolescence. As a builder of buildings, Mr. Trump’s return on investment has been easily measurable. So it is unsurprising that he would grade America’s performance on a scorecard in which he totals up wins and losses.
在特朗普和他的支持者看来，正是这种观点导致美国走上了下坡路。作为房地产开发商，特朗普的投资回报率很容易衡量。所以，他用输赢多少来给美国的表现打分也就不足为奇了。
Curiously, among the skeptics are his own appointees. His nominee for defense secretary, Gen. James N. Mattis, strongly defended the importance of NATO during his confirmation hearing. Both Rex W. Tillerson, the nominee for secretary of state, and Nikki Haley, the choice for ambassador to the United Nations, offered up paeans to the need for robust American alliances, though Mr. Tillerson periodically tacked back to concepts echoing Mr. Trump’s.
奇怪的是，他自己任命的人中也有持怀疑态度的。他提名的国防部长詹姆斯·N·马蒂斯(James N. Mattis)将军在批准其提名的听证会上极力强调北约重要性。国务卿提名人雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)和联合国大使提名人尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)也认为维护强大的美国联盟很有必要，尽管蒂勒森有时也会与特朗普一唱一和。
He cast America’s new role in the world as one of an aggrieved superpower, not a power intent on changing the globe. There was no condemnation of authoritarianism or fascism, no clarion call to defend human rights around the world — one of the commitments that John F. Kennedy made in his famed address, delivered 56 years ago to the day from the same spot, to protect human rights “at home and around the world.”
他把美国在世界上的新角色形容为一个受到屈辱的超级大国，而不是一股企图改变世界的力量。他没有对任何威权主义或法西斯主义进行谴责，也没有明确呼吁要在全世界捍卫人权——56年前同一天的同一个地方，约翰·F ·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)在他的著名演讲中做出了这种承诺，誓言要保护“国内和世界各地”的人权。
That was, of course, the prelude to Kennedy’s most famous line: that America will “bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty.”
当然那是个前奏，肯尼迪后来的一句名言最是广为人知：美国将“忍受任何重负，应付任何艰辛，支持任何朋友，反对任何敌人，以确保自由的存在与实现”。
But the America that elected Mr. Trump had concluded that it was no longer willing to bear that burden — or even to make the spread of democracy the mission of the nation, as George W. Bush, who was sitting behind Mr. Trump, vowed 12 years ago. Mr. Trump views American democracy as a fine import for those who like it.
但是，选择了特朗普的美国表示，它不愿意再承担这种负担，甚至不想把传播民主当作国家使命，就像坐在特朗普身后的乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)12年前发誓的那样。对于那些喜欢美国民主的人来说，特朗普把它视为一个很好的理念输出。
“We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone,” he said, “but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to follow.”
“我们不会试图把我们的生活方式强加给任何人，”他说，“而是会把它作为一个典范，让它散发光芒，任由大家跟随。”