Donald Trump delivered a blistering attack on Wednesday against Hillary Clinton, calling her unreliable and more concerned with herself than with the American people as he sought to regain his footing after a tumultuous month that imperiled his candidacy.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)本周三对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)发起了恶毒攻击，称她很不可靠，关心自己更甚于关心美国公众。特朗普这个月的竞选形势堪忧，正在试图重新站稳脚跟。
In a 41-minute speech seeking to build his case against the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee by labeling her a “world-class liar,” Trump moved to soothe concerns among Republicans alarmed by gaping self-inflected wounds after his racial attacks on a federal judge and his self-congratulatory boast after the terrorist shooting in Orlando, Florida. He said Clinton would not create jobs, portraying her as a scandal-tarnished former secretary of state who “may be the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency.”
在41分钟的讲话中，他试图给稳获民主党总统提名的克林顿打上“世界级骗子”的标签。由于之前对一位联邦法官进行了种族攻击，还在佛罗里达州奥兰多恐怖枪击案发生后沾沾自喜地自我吹嘘，特朗普已经引起了一些共和党人的担心，现在他试图弥补损失，安抚他们。特朗普说克林顿不会创造就业机会，还把她形容为丑闻缠身的前国务卿，“可能是角逐总统职位的人中最腐败的一个”。
“The choice in this election is a choice between taking our government back from the special interests, or surrendering our last scrap of independence to their total and complete control,” Trump said.
“在这次选举中有两个选择，一个是把我们的政府从特殊利益团体那里带回来，另一个是放弃我们最后剩下的一点儿独立性，让他们获得完全、彻底的掌控，”特朗普说。
The professionalized presentation, with two teleprompters flanking the lectern in a third-floor ballroom of the Trump SoHo hotel in Manhattan, represented a stark contrast to how Trump has handled the last month of his campaign.
这是一场专业化的演讲，讲台两侧各有一台提词器，地点在曼哈顿的特朗普休南酒店(Trump SoHo)三楼宴会厅，这与特朗普上个月的竞选运作方式形成了鲜明对比。
Since securing the Republican nomination, Trump has allowed himself to be pummeled by Democrats, doing little to fashion an overarching message or even to frame his view of the race. But on Wednesday, he moved to regain the offensive, making a forceful case that he chose to enter public service because of his concerns for the country, a contrast he tried to draw with Clinton.
自从获得共和党总统提名以来，特朗普一直任由自己被民主党连番敲打，几乎没有发表纲领性的讯息，甚至没有表述自己对竞选的看法。但本周三，他重拾攻势，极力表示他进入公共服务领域是出于对这个国家的关切，试图与克林顿形成对比。
“She believes she is entitled to the office,” Trump said. “Her campaign slogan is ‘I’m with her.’ You know what my response to that is? I’m with you, the American people. She thinks it’s all about her. I know it’s all about you.”
“她认为她理应当上总统，”特朗普说。“她的竞选口号是‘我挺她’，你知道我是怎么想的吗？我挺你们，美国人民。她觉得她自己是这一切的中心。但我知道，你们才是这一切的中心。”
The Manhattan address highlighted an intensifying level of combat between Trump and Clinton, who in Raleigh, North Carolina, on Wednesday shot back at the Manhattan businessman for questioning her commitment to her faith just a day before.
特朗普在曼哈顿的演讲突显了他和克林顿之战的激烈程度。克林顿本周三在北卡罗来纳州罗利市，就在周二，她才对这个曼哈顿商人进行了还击，因为他质疑她对信仰的坚持。
“As we Methodists like to say,” she told hundreds of supporters, pausing for effect and knowing applause, “do all the good you can for all the people you can in all the ways you can.”
“就像我们卫理公会信徒喜欢说的那样，”她对成百上千的支持者说，为了加深效果，等待观众会意的掌声过去，她顿了顿，接着说，“尽你所能为尽可能多的人做尽可能多的好事。”
Later, she suggested that Trump’s speech on Wednesday was part of an effort to distract voters from his lack of substance or policy depth.
后来，她表示，特朗普本周三讲话的部分目的是，转移选民对他缺乏实质内容和政策深度的注意力。
“That’s even why he’s attacking my faith,” she said. “Sigh.”
“甚至他攻击我的信仰也是因为这个，”她说。“可叹。”