WASHINGTON — A group of Twitter users blocked by President Donald Trump sued him and two top White House aides Tuesday, arguing that his account amounts to a public forum that he, as a government official, cannot bar people from.
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统拉黑的一群推特用户周二把他和两位白宫高级助理告上法院，称他的帐号相当于公共论坛，特朗普作为政府官员，不能把别人从这样的论坛上拉黑。
The blocked Twitter users, represented by the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, raised cutting-edge issues about how the Constitution applies to the social-media era. They say Trump cannot bar people from engaging with his account because they expressed opinions he did not like, such as mocking or criticizing him.
哥伦比亚大学骑士第一修正案研究所(Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University)代表这些被拉黑的推特用户，他们提出了关于宪法如何适用于社交媒体时代的新问题。他们说，特朗普不能因为别人发表了他不喜欢的意见，比如嘲笑或者批评他，就禁止别人和他的帐号互动。
“The @realDonaldTrump account is a kind of digital town hall in which the president and his aides use the tweet function to communicate news and information to the public, and members of the public use the reply function to respond to the president and his aides and exchange views with one another,” the lawsuit said.
“@realDonaldTrump帐号是一种数字化的市政厅，在这里，总统及其助理利用推特功能向公众传达新闻和信息，而公众利用回复功能，对总统及其助理做出回应，互相交换意见，”诉状说。
By blocking people from reading his tweets, or from viewing and replying to message chains based on them, Trump is violating their First Amendment rights because they expressed views he did not like, the lawsuit argued.
诉状还说，特朗普因为别人表达了他不喜欢的观点，就阻止他们阅读他的推文，不让他们看到和回复基于这些推文的消息链，这种做法侵犯了第一修正案赋予他们的权利。
It offered several theories to back that notion. They included arguments that Trump was imposing an unconstitutional restriction on the plaintiffs’ ability to participate in a designated public forum, get access to statements the government had otherwise made available to the public and petition the government for “redress of grievances.”
诉状使用了几个理论来支持这个主张。其中一个就是特朗普对原告的某些能力施加了违反宪法的限制，这些能力包括原告在特定公共论坛上互动、看到政府本应该让公众知晓的声明，以及向政府诉冤请愿的权利。
Filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, the lawsuit also names Sean Spicer, White House press secretary, and Dan Scavino, Trump’s director of social media, as defendants. It seeks a declaration that Trump’s blocking of the plaintiffs was unconstitutional, an injunction requiring him to unblock them and prohibiting him from blocking others for the views they express, and legal fees.
这宗诉讼是向纽约州南区的联邦地方法院提起的，它还把白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)和特朗普社交媒体主管丹·斯卡维诺(Dan Scavino)列为被告。它希望法院宣布特朗普拉黑原告是违宪的，要求他取消这些拉黑的强制令，禁止他因为别人发表的意见而拉黑他们，并让他支付法律费用。
The Knight First Amendment Institute, directed by Jameel Jaffer, also joined the lawsuit as a plaintiff although its Twitter account had not been blocked by Trump. It argued that it had a First Amendment right to hear from people who had been blocked and are barred from participating in the “forum” of message chains based on his postings.
由贾米勒·贾弗(Jameel Jaffer)领导的骑士第一修正案研究所也以原告身份加入了诉讼，尽管其推特帐户并没有被特朗普拉黑。该研究所认为，自己也拥有第一修正案的权利，听取被拉黑者的意见，这些被拉黑者无法参与基于特朗普贴子的消息链“论坛”。