Donald J. Trump proposed another significant shift in American foreign policy on Tuesday, suggesting that as president he would be willing to hold direct negotiations with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean dictator.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)本周二提出要让美国外交政策进行另外一项重大转变。他表示，如果当上总统，他愿与朝鲜独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)进行直接会谈。
In an interview with Reuters, Mr. Trump said that the talks would be part of an effort to halt North Korea’s nuclear program, which the United States considers one of the most serious national security threats.
在接受路透社(Reuters)采访时，特朗普说，在阻止朝鲜核计划的努力中，直接会谈将是其中一部分。朝核问题被美国视为最严重的国家安全威胁之一。
“I would speak to him, I would have no problem speaking to him,” Mr. Trump said.
“我会和他谈，这对我来说不是问题，”特朗普说。
North Korea is among the most isolated countries in the world and regularly defies the international community by launching test rockets and capturing political prisoners.
朝鲜是全球最受孤立的国家之一。它常常无视国际社会的反对，一再试射火箭，抓捕政治犯。
The notion that Mr. Trump would hold direct talks with Mr. Kim could create backlash among Republicans and Democrats. In 2008, Hillary Clinton criticized then-Senator Barack Obama for being naïve about foreign policy for expressing a willingness to speak directly with Iran. Senator John McCain, a Republican from Arizona, offered similar criticism of him in the general election.
特朗普愿与金正恩直接会谈的构想，可能会在共和与民主两党当中都引发强烈抗议。在2008年，当时还是参议员的贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)表示在外交政策方面愿意直接与伊朗对话，被对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)批评为天真。亚利桑那州的共和党联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)也在大选阶段对他发出过类似的批评。
Mr. Trump’s willingness to negotiate with a pariah state comes as he has been offering olive branches to countries such as Russia, which has had tense relations with the United States, while criticizing leaders of traditional allies such as Mexico and Britain.
近来特朗普向与美国关系紧张的俄罗斯等国伸出了橄榄枝，同时又对墨西哥、英国等传统盟国的领导人进行指责。在这样的背景下，他表达了同朝鲜这个遭全世界排斥的国家进行会谈的意愿。
This is not the first time that Mr. Trump has expressed unconventional ideas when it comes to America’s interests in Northeast Asia. In a March interview with The New York Times he suggested that Japan and South Korea should have their own nuclear arsenals so that they would be less reliant on protection from the United States in the region.
在涉及美国在东北亚的利益问题上，这并非特朗普第一次提出非常规的想法。今年3月接受《纽约时报》采访时，他表示日本和韩国都应该有自己的核武库，这样它们在该地区就无需那么依赖美国的保护了。
Direct talks were not the only solution that Mr. Trump proposed on Tuesday when it comes to North Korea. He also told Reuters that he would exert pressure on the Chinese, one of North Korea’s closest allies, to help curb its nuclear ambitions.
周二谈到朝鲜问题时，特朗普提出的解决方案不仅仅包括直接谈判。他还告诉路透社记者，他会对朝鲜最亲密的盟友之一中国施加压力，以帮助遏制其核野心。