In his short White House tenure, President Trump has already set a record for histrionic tantrums against the media — whether attacking CNN, The Washington Post, The New York Times or MSNBC for revealing his 2005 tax return, as he did last week. He’s actually pursuing a well-worn path of American presidents blaming the press for their problems.
在短暂的白宫任期内，特朗普总统对待媒体的矫揉造作、耍小性子已经创下了纪录——无论是攻击CNN、《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)，《纽约时报》，还是像上周那样攻击MSNBC透露他2005年的报税表。 他实际上是在走上美国总统一条陈旧不堪的老路：将各种问题归因于新闻界。
Five decades of reporting have taught me that whenever a president starts screeching about the media, it’s a sure sign he’s in hot water and fearing revelations about some policy disaster, damaging mendacity or political villainy. Even popular presidents with reputations for charming the press occasionally stoop to blaming the press for quagmires of their own making.
五十年的报道经历让我明白，每当一位总统开始扯着嗓子控诉媒体时，这肯定意味着他遇到了麻烦，担心被揭发出一些巨大的政策失误、有破坏性的谎言或政治上的恶行。哪怕是以受媒体喜爱著称的广受欢迎的总统，偶尔也会自甘堕落将自己造成的困境归罪于媒体。
John F. Kennedy, for example.
比如约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kenned)。
In September 1963, with the Vietnam War escalating and the pro-American authoritarian regime of President Ngo Dinh Diem besieged by popular protests, President Kennedy used a private meeting with The New York Times’s publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, and James Reston, the Washington bureau chief, to charge that David Halberstam, the Times correspondent in Saigon, was undermining the American war effort and to pressure the publisher to pull Mr. Halberstam out of Vietnam. President Kennedy was particularly angered by a stream of front-page articles by Mr. Halberstam graphically describing battlefield defeats and the self-immolations of Buddhist monks.
1663年9月，随着越战不断升级，以及亲美的吴廷琰独裁政权(Ngo Dinh Diem)接连遭到民众抗议，肯尼迪总统在私下会见《纽约时报》出版人阿瑟·奥克斯·苏兹伯格(Arthur Ochs Sulzberger)和其华盛顿分社社长詹姆斯·赖斯顿(James Reston)私时，指责时报驻西贡记者大卫·哈伯斯塔姆(David Halberstam)破坏美国在战争中所做的努力，并向这位出版人施压，要求将哈伯斯塔姆撤出越南。肯尼迪总统对哈伯斯塔姆发表的一系列生动描绘战场上的失利和僧人自焚情况的头版文章尤其感到愤怒。
What the president did not know was that The Times was already planning to replace Mr. Halberstam because the editors feared that Vietnamese secret police had marked him for assassination. Because I covered Vietnam policy in Washington, I had been told to get ready to replace Mr. Halberstam.
这位总统所不知道的是，时报之前已经打算替换哈伯斯塔姆，因为编辑们担心越南秘密警察已经将他列为暗杀目标。由于我在华盛顿负责报道越南政策，所以被告知做好准备去替换哈伯斯塔姆。
But after the meeting, Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Reston postponed my transfer indefinitely. The Times, they said, could not bow to pressure from a president trying to change our news coverage. Two months later, after the Diem regime was overthrown, I was sent to Saigon to replace Mr. Halberstam.
但在这次会面之后，苏兹伯格和赖斯顿无限期推迟了我的调动时间。他们说，时报不能屈服于一位试图改变我们的新闻报道的总统所施加的压力。两个月后，吴廷琰政权被推翻，我才被派往西贡，接替哈伯斯塔姆的工作。
President Kennedy’s successor, Lyndon B. Johnson, intensified this adversarial strategy. He regularly railed against the press for what he and Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara condemned as biased news coverage that challenged the administration’s line that we were winning the Vietnam War, which Mr. Johnson had expanded with air attacks on North Vietnam. When in December 1966 the Times correspondent Harrison Salisbury went to Hanoi and began filing dispatches about the civilian casualties and destruction caused by the American bombing, the administration all but accused Mr. Salisbury of treason.
肯尼迪总统的继任者林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)加强了这种对立策略。他经常为被他与国防部长罗伯特·S·麦克纳马拉(Robert S. McNamara)谴责为有偏见的新闻报道指责媒体，这些报道挑战了政府宣传口径，即我们正在赢得越南战争。当时，约翰逊对北越发动空袭，将越战进一步扩大。当时报记者哈里森·索尔兹伯里(Harrison Salisbury)在1966年12月前往河内，开始发表有关平民伤亡和美国轰炸造成的破坏的文章时，政府几乎指责索尔兹伯里叛国。
The Pentagon insisted that American attacks were carried out with pinpoint precision, civilian casualties were extremely rare, and Mr. Salisbury had become a tool of Hanoi’s propaganda effort. But within months, Deputy Secretary of State Nicholas Katzenbach admitted privately to several reporters in Washington that American air raids were in fact hitting civilian-populated areas of Hanoi, Haiphong and other cities.
五角大楼坚称，美国的空袭是依照精准的定位实施的，几乎不曾造成什么平民伤亡，还称索尔兹伯里成了河内政治宣传的一个工具。但在几个月内，副国务卿尼古拉斯·卡岑巴赫(Nicholas Katzenbach)便私下对几位华盛顿记者承认，美国的空袭实际上击中了河内、海防等城市平民人口集中的地区。
During the administration of the next president, Richard M. Nixon, charge and countercharge against the media escalated still further. The Nixon White House even compiled a political “enemies list” including more than 50 in journalism. To combat leaks over war policy, the White House and the F.B.I. director, J. Edgar Hoover, ordered the wiretapping of four reporters, including me, and 14 government officials.
在下一任总统理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)执政期间，针对媒体的指控和反指控进一步升级。尼克松领导的的白宫甚至列出了一个包括50多名新闻从业人员在内的政治“黑名单”。为了防止战争政策泄露，白宫和联邦调查局局长J·埃德加·胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover)下令窃听包括我在内的4名记者和14名政府官员的电话。
In 1971, my colleague Neil Sheehan obtained Secretary McNamara’s secret Pentagon history of the war, documenting chronic deception of the American people by a succession of Democratic and Republican administrations. When The Times published our articles based on the Pentagon Papers, the Nixon administration went to court to stop publication. The Times was temporarily blocked but other papers picked up the story.
1971年，我的同事尼尔·希恩(Neil Sheehan)拿到了国防部长麦克纳马拉手中有关五角大楼战争史的秘密文件，其中记录了多届民主党和共和党政府长期欺骗美国民众的行为。当时报发表了基于这些五角大楼文件所做的报道后，尼克松政府提起诉讼，以阻止发行。时报暂时被禁，但其他报纸接着对这个事件进行了报道。
Infuriated, President Nixon insisted that someone “has to go to jail” for the leak. But very quickly, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the media, and The Times rolled out a book-length volume of articles over 10 days that would forever alter and deepen our understanding of the Vietnam War.
盛怒之下，尼克松坚决要求必须有人为这起泄密事件“进监狱”。但最高法院很快做出了有利于媒体的裁决，时报在十天之内连续发表多篇报道，其篇幅加起来如同一本书，而且从此永远改变和加深了我们对越战的理解。
Today, the issues are different, of course — questions about Mr. Trump’s peculiarly warm embrace of Russia’s leader, Vladimir V. Putin, and Russian intelligence agencies meddling in the 2016 elections on Mr. Trump’s behalf. But the clash of powerful institutions is similar.
当然，如今的问题有些不同——是关于特朗普对俄罗斯领导人弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)不一般的热烈支持和俄罗斯情报机构为了特朗普的利益干涉2016年美国大选的事件。但其中呈现的强大机构的冲突是类似的。
Mr. Trump’s attack on the media for publishing leaks from the F.B.I. and domestic intelligence agencies succeeded for a few days in diverting public attention from his Russian connections. He and his White House Rasputin, Stephen K. Bannon, may also reckon that by savaging the press, they can intimidate Congress into softening its investigation into the Trump-Russia link.
特朗普因媒体发布来自联邦调查局和国内情报机构泄露的信息而对它们进行抨击，成功地将公众的注意力从他与俄罗斯的关联上分散了几天。他和白宫拉斯普廷(Rasputin)史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)或许也认为通过猛烈抨击媒体，他们可以胁迫国会缓和对特朗普与俄罗斯关联的调查。
But the focus has swung back on the central question: What is the president hiding? If his campaign is innocent of illicit Russian connections, why not welcome the investigation and clear the air? If, as Mr. Trump said last month, his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, was simply “doing his job” in talking with the Russian ambassador Sergey I. Kislyak about American sanctions against Moscow, why did Mr. Flynn lie about it?
但重点又回到了这个核心问题：总统在隐瞒什么？如果他的竞选活动不存在与俄罗斯的不正当关联，为什么不对这项调查表示欢迎，澄清事实？如果情况如特朗普上月所说，他的前任国家安全顾问迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)与罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)交谈只是“在做自己的分内之事”，为何弗林要在这件事上撒谎？
More broadly, why has Mr. Trump evaded reporters’ questions about renewed fighting in eastern Ukraine or the Russian deployment of a new missile in conflict with a 1987 arms agreement? Why, after publication of his 2005 tax returns, does he still refuse to release his most recent returns? Will they reveal something that makes him beholden to Mr. Putin and Moscow?
往大了讲，为什么特朗普要逃避记者的问题——有关重燃东乌克兰战火或俄罗斯违反1987年的军备协定部署一枚新的导弹？在他2005年的纳税申报表被公布之后，特朗普为何还要拒绝公布他最近的报表？它们会暴露出一些显示他欠了普京和莫斯科人情的信息吗？
No matter how much the president seeks to demonize the press, these and other crucial questions will not go away because today’s journalists are just as committed as those who covered past presidents to pursue them to the end.
不管这位总统多么努力地妖魔化媒体，这些和其他关键问题并不会消失，因为如今的记者和报道过去历届总统、对他们穷追不舍的记者一样地坚定。