Ivanka Trump, 34, is many things: a mother, an executive and an entrepreneur who has a prominent role in the Republican presidential campaign of her father, Donald J. Trump.
34岁的伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)有很多身份：母亲、高管、在其父唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的共和党总统竞选中扮演重要角色的企业家。
Now, because of comments by Mr. Trump and one of her brothers, she has been cast in perhaps an unfamiliar role: an unwitting figure at the center of a debate on social media about how a woman could — or should — respond to sexual harassment on the job.
现在，因为父亲和一个弟弟的言论，她被赋予了一个也许她自己都不甚了解的身份：一个被动地处于社交媒体讨论风口浪尖上的人。这场讨论的主题是女性可以——或者说应该——如何应对工作上的性骚扰。
The issue came up in an interview Mr. Trump had with USA Today that was published on Monday. A columnist asked him about comments he made on “Meet the Press” on NBC about the sexual harassment case that led to the ouster of the powerful Fox News chairman and chief executive Roger Ailes.
这个问题是在特朗普接受《今日美国》(USA Today)采访时出现的。采访的报道已于周一刊出。当时，一位专栏作家问到了特朗普在NBC的《与媒体见面》(Meet the Press)节目上对一起性骚扰事件发表的评论。该事件导致Fox新闻频道(Fox News)手握重权的董事长兼首席执行官罗杰·艾尔斯(Roger Ailes)下台。
Mr. Trump, who has himself faced strong criticism for his own behavior toward and comments about women — including derogatory and sexually charged comments about their bodies — said it was “sad” that former Fox News employees were “complaining” about being sexually harassed, and he appeared to question the truthfulness of their claims.
本身就因为对待女性的行为举止和有关女性的言论——包括对女性身体发表语带贬损和情色意味的评论——而受到猛烈抨击的特朗普说，前Fox新闻频道雇员“抱怨”遭到性骚扰一事“令人遗憾”。他似乎质疑那些人说法的真实性。
When the columnist, Kirsten Powers, asked what would happen if Ivanka Trump faced similar treatment, he replied, “I would like to think she would find another career or find another company if that was the case.”
当名为柯尔斯滕·鲍尔斯(Kirsten Powers)的那位专栏作家问道，如果伊万卡·特朗普面临类似的遭遇会怎么办时，特朗普回答说，“若是这样，我希望她能换个职业，或是换一家公司。”
As criticism rolled in, Eric Trump attempted to defend his father’s comments in an interview on “CBS This Morning” on Tuesday, saying, “I think what he’s saying is, Ivanka is a strong, powerful woman; she wouldn’t allow herself to be” subjected to such behavior.
随着批评声四起，埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)周二接受《CBS早间新闻》(CBS This Morning)的采访时试图为父亲的言论进行辩护，称“我觉得他想说的是，伊万卡是一个坚强、有力量的女性，她不会允许自己”受到这样的对待。
“And, by the way,” he added, “you should take it up with human resources, and I think she would as a strong person.”
“而且顺便说一下，”他接着说。“应该向人力资源部门反映，我想作为一个坚强的人，她会这么做的。”
That this may be true for her, given her family’s wealth and her own success in the business world, but not for the average American woman, was not lost on social media users. The comments spurred a swift backlash, with women’s advocates and others saying that to tell a woman who is being harassed to leave her job was tone-deaf, misguided and unrealistic.
考虑到其家族财富和她自己在商界取得的成功，这种做法可能适用于她，但却不适用于普通美国女性。社交媒体用户明白这一点。这番言很快便激起了强烈的反对。女性权益倡导人士和其他一些人表示，让遭受骚扰的女性辞职是搞不清情况，是一种充满误导和不切实际的做法。
Many also said that holding up Ms. Trump as a paragon of how powerful women can stave off harassment by simply being, well, powerful implied that other women allowed themselves to victimized.
很多人还表示，把伊万卡作为榜样，说有力量的女性仅仅因为自身拥有力量便能免受骚扰，是在暗示其他女性允许自己成为受害者。
Terry O’Neill, the president of the National Organization for Women, which has endorsed Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee for president, called the comments “jaw-dropping.”
支持民主党总统提名人选希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的全国妇女组织(National Organization of Women)的主席特莉·奥尼尔(Terry O’Neill)称，相关言论“令人瞠目结舌”。
“The suggestion that she would just go get another career, that is a cavalier attitude that I think so many women I’ve already heard from find deeply offensive because it ignores the reality of women’s everyday lives,” she said in a phone interview on Tuesday.
“说她只用换个职业的说法，这是一种傲慢的态度，我想我接触到的很多女性都会觉得这种态度严重冒犯了自己，因为它忽略了女性日常生活的现状，”她周二接受电话采访时说。
Megyn Kelly, the Fox News host who has feuded with Ms. Trump’s father, posted a one-word tweet that was widely shared: “Sigh.”
与特朗普不和的Fox新闻频道主持人梅根·凯利(Megyn Kelly)发表了一条只有一个词“哀叹”的推文。这条推被广泛转发。
Gretchen Carlson, the former Fox News anchor who sued Mr. Ailes, accusing him of derailing her career after she refused his advances, also wrote on Twitter: “Sad in 2016 we’re still victim blaming women. Trust me I’m strong.”
前Fox新闻频道主持人格蕾琴·卡尔森(Gretchen Carlson)也在Twitter上写道：“悲哀，都到2016年了，我们女性身为受害者仍会遭到指责。相信我，我很坚强。”正是卡尔森起诉了艾尔斯，指控他在勾引被拒后中断了她的事业。
In an emailed statement on Tuesday, Ms. Trump did not respond directly to the comments of her brother or father, but said: “Harassment in general, sexual or otherwise, is inexcusable. At our companies, we do not tolerate harassment of any kind. Our policies both on paper and in practice require that every complaint be fully investigated and if claims are substantiated, our H.R. team takes swift disciplinary action.”
在周二通过电子邮件发出的一份声明中，伊万卡未直接回应弟弟和父亲的评论，而是表示：“骚扰，不管是性骚扰还是其他骚扰，总的来说都是不可原谅的。在我们公司，我们不容忍任何类型的骚扰。我们书面列出和实际执行的政策均要求全面调查每一起投诉，并且如果所投诉之事被证实，我们的人力资源团队会迅速采取惩戒措施。”
Ms. Trump whose role in her father’s campaign has traditionally been filled by a candidate’s wife, has been called “his secret weapon.” At the Republican National Convention, she spoke about parental leave, equal pay and the role of women in the Trump Organization.
在其父的竞选中，伊万卡扮演着传统上由候选人的妻子扮演的角色，被称作“他的秘密武器”。在共和党全国大会上，她谈到了育婴假、同工同酬和女性在特朗普集团(Trump Organization)发挥的作用。
The persona she has created is of a model of American femininity — stylish and poised, but also successful in business, said Michael Bronski, a professor of women’s studies at Harvard. Ms. Trump’s website, #womenwhowork, features fashion and lifestyle tips and professional advice. There are posts on negotiating flexible hours, avoiding “drama at the office,” mindfulness and being an executive and new mother.
哈佛大学女性研究教授迈克尔·布龙斯基(Michael Bronski)表示，伊万卡塑造的形象是美国女性的榜样——不仅时尚优雅，而且还在商业上取得了成功。在伊万卡的网站#womenwhowork上，内容包括时尚和生活方式贴士及职业建议。上面还有一些介绍通过协商实现弹性工作制、避免“办公室闹剧”、正念和如何同时胜任高管和新手妈妈的文章。
But her 2010 book, “The Trump Card: Playing to Win in Work and Life,” shows that even she was not immune to the issue of workplace harassment. Ms. Trump recounted being whistled at by workers at her father’s construction projects.
但伊万卡2010年出版的《特朗普王牌：工作和生活的双赢之道》(The Trump Card: Playing to Win in Work and Life)一书表明，即便是她，也避免不了职场骚扰这个问题。伊万卡写到了父亲的建筑工地上的工人朝她吹口哨的经历。
But once they realized she was the boss’s daughter, she said, they were apologetic.
但她说，一旦意识到她是老板的女儿，他们都会表示歉意。