SEOUL, South Korea — Donald J. Trump’s proposals for upending American policy toward the Korean Peninsula have found a receptive audience in at least one place: North Korea.
韩国首尔——至少在一个地方，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)关于美国对朝鲜半岛政策的颠覆性建议受到了认可：朝鲜。
On Wednesday, the official newspaper of North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party published a commentary praising Mr. Trump’s threat to pull American troops out of South Korea if elected president, unless Seoul pays more for their presence. It said the threat had shocked South Korean policy makers, who it characterized as servants of America, a standard theme of the North’s propaganda.
本周三，朝鲜执政的劳动党的党报发表评论，称赞了特朗普的威胁性言论——他当选总统之后，美国会把军队撤出韩国，除非首尔承担更多的驻军成本。这份党报称，这个威胁令韩国“傀儡”大为震惊。把韩国决策者称为服从美国的傀儡，是朝鲜宣传机构的一个标准说法。
“The tragedy is that the South’s authorities are incapable of feeling any national shame, no matter how their American masters subject them to an unbearable humiliation,” read the commentary in the newspaper, Rodong Sinmun. “Their attitude is best shown by the way they got scared by Trump’s comments and groveled.”
“可悲的是，南朝鲜当局没有感受民族耻辱的能力，不管他们从美国主子那里遭受了什么不堪的屈辱，”《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)的这篇评论文章写道。“这种态度的最佳体现就是，特朗普的说法把他们吓坏了，只会低声下气。”
In a March interview with The New York Times, Mr. Trump accused South Korea of not contributing enough toward the cost of keeping tens of thousands of American troops in the country, suggesting he might withdraw them if elected.
今年3月接受《纽约时报》采访时，特朗普指责韩国没有支付足够的钱来负担数以万计的美国军人驻守韩国的成本。特朗普表示，如果自己当选，可能会撤回驻军。
He further unsettled South Korean officials by declaring in May, during an interview with Reuters, that he would be willing to negotiate directly with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, to try to stop the North’s nuclear arms program. “I would have no problem speaking to him,” Mr. Trump said.
今年5月在接受路透社(Reuters)采访时，特朗普表示，为了阻止朝鲜的核武计划，他愿意直接与朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)进行谈判。“和他谈对我来说不是问题，”他说。这让韩国官员更加坐立不安。
At first, Mr. Trump’s remarks were largely dismissed in South Korea, but the news media here sounded a growing alarm about them as it became clearer that he would become the Republican nominee. “It is scary just to imagine Trump, who often doesn’t remember what he has said, getting elected president and manipulating Korean Peninsula issues by drastically shifting his positions,” a South Korean newspaper, Kyunghyang Shinmun, wrote in an editorial in May.
起初，韩国对特朗普的言论基本上是一笑了之，但随着他成为共和党提名人的可能性越来越大，韩国新闻媒体的警惕心也在不断增强。“特朗普经常不记得自己说过什么。一想到他当选总统，通过大幅转变立场来左右朝鲜半岛的问题，就让人感到可怕，”韩国报纸《京乡新闻》(Kyunghyang Shinmun)今年5月在社论中写道。
South Korean officials have told reporters that they are trying to reach out to Mr. Trump’s policy advisers, in hopes of persuading him that the American military presence here benefits the United States as well as South Korea.
韩国官员告诉记者，他们正试图接触特朗普的政策顾问，希望说服他，美国在韩国的军事存对两国都是有利的。
The Rodong Sinmun article was the second about Mr. Trump to appear in North Korea’s state news media in two days. On Tuesday, a lesser propaganda outlet, the website DPRK Today, carried what it called an opinion piece submitted by Han Young-muk, whom it identified as an ethnic Korean scholar in China. Such articles are seen as having less authority than official commentaries in Rodong Sinmun, which hew closely to the party line.
《劳动新闻》的文章是朝鲜官方媒体在两天之内第二次提到特朗普。本周二，级别比它低的宣传机构“今日朝鲜”(DPRK Today)网站发表了一篇评论，作者韩永墨(Han Young-muk)据说是中国的朝鲜族学者。这种文章的权威性通常不及严格遵行劳动党路线的《劳动新闻》的官方评论。
Mr. Han wrote that Mr. Trump had a greedy, “wolflike mind,” and accused him of trying to secure America a “free ride” by having South Korea pay for the troops’ presence. But he said the policy would be a godsend for the North, if South Korea refused to pay more and the troops were pulled out.
韩永墨认为特朗普有一种贪婪的“狼族心态”，并指责他试图通过让韩国负担驻军成本的方式来让美国“搭便车”。但他表示，如果韩国拒绝支付更多的钱，导致美军撤离，那么这项政策对朝鲜是一个天赐良机。
“Leave now! Hurry!” Mr. Han wrote. “Who knew that the ‘Yankee Go Home’ slogan we shouted so enthusiastically could come true so easily like this? The day that the ‘Yankee Go Home’ slogan becomes reality would be the day Korea is unified again.”
“现在就离开！赶紧的！”韩永墨写道。“谁能料到我们衷心喊出的‘美国佬滚回去’口号会这么容易成真呢？‘美国佬滚回去’口号变成现实的那一天，将是朝鲜再次统一的日子。”
North Korea has long called for the withdrawal of American troops from the South, where they have been based since the Korean War ended without a peace treaty more than 60 years ago. Pyongyang calls them a source of military tension on the peninsula and an obstacle to Korean reunification. The North also wants direct dialogue with Washington to discuss the troops’ removal.
长期以来，朝鲜不断要求美国部队撤离韩国。自从逾60年前朝鲜战争在没有和平条约的情况下结束，美军就一直驻扎在韩国。平壤宣称驻韩美军导致了朝鲜半岛军事局势紧张，阻碍了南北统一。朝鲜还希望与美国直接对话，讨论撤离驻军的问题。
Neither of the North Korean articles this week mentioned Mr. Trump’s suggestion, in the March interview with The Times, that Japan and South Korea should have their own nuclear arsenals so they would be less dependent on America for protection.
朝鲜本周的两篇文章都没有提到，在《纽约时报》3月的那次采访中，特朗普还表示，日本和韩国应该拥有自己的核武库，从而无需再像以前那么依赖美国的保护。
In the DPRK Today article, Mr. Han praised Mr. Trump’s apparent willingness to talk to Mr. Kim, saying the real estate mogul had proved to be a “wise politician” and comparing him favorably to Hillary Clinton, his likely Democratic opponent.
在“今日朝鲜”的文章中，韩永墨称赞特朗普表现出可与金正恩谈判的意愿，称事实证明这名地产大亨是一个“明智的政治家”，比很可能成为民主党提名人的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)更好。
“The candidate the Americans must choose is not the thickheaded Hillary, who tries to apply an Iranian model to solve the nuclear problem on the Korean Peninsula, but Trump, who says he will try to solve it through direct dialogue with us,” Mr. Han said.
“美国人必须选择特朗普，而不是愚蠢的希拉里。希拉里想用伊朗模式来解决朝鲜半岛的核问题，特朗普则表示会尝试通过与我们直接对话来解决，”韩永墨称。