Faced with a threat from North Korea that it might soon test an intercontinental ballistic missile, President-elect Donald J. Trump took to Twitter on Monday to declare bluntly, “It won’t happen!”
面对朝鲜可能很快会试射一枚洲际弹道导弹的威胁，候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)周一在Twitter上直言不讳地宣布，“这不会发生！”
Mr. Trump made his post on Twitter, where he often tests out his first thoughts on developing issues in the United States and abroad, a day after North Korea’s young leader, Kim Jong-un, declared that the “final stage in preparations” was underway for a test of such a missile. Mr. Kim offered no time frame. North Korea has routinely tested short- and medium-range missiles, with some successes and many failures, but it has so far stopped short of testing a long-range missile, which could reach Guam or the West Coast of the United States.
特朗普的帖子发表在Twitter上，他常在这个平台上检验自己对美国国内外不断发展变化中的议题的最初想法。一天前，年轻的朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)宣布，正在对一枚洲际弹道导弹的试射进行“最后阶段的准备工作”。金正恩没有给出时间范围。朝鲜会例行试射中短程导弹，部分取得了成功，很多则失败了，但该国迄今为止尚未试射过可抵达关岛或美国西海岸的远程导弹。
“North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the U.S.,” Mr. Trump wrote, somewhat misstating Mr. Kim’s warning. Pyongyang has already tested nuclear weapons underground; the latest threat concerned what Mr. Kim called a “test launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile.” But Mr. Kim also boasted last year that the North had conducted “the first H-bomb test,” and experts say there is no evidence for that claim.
“朝鲜刚刚宣布，可打击美国部分地区的一种核武器研制已进入最后阶段，”特朗普写道，不过他对金正恩的警告表述有误。平壤已经在地下进行过核武器试验，最新的威胁是金正恩所说的“试射一枚洲际弹道导弹”。不过金正恩去年也夸口称朝鲜进行了“第一次氢弹试验”，专家却表示没有证据支撑这一说法。
Mr. Trump takes office in less than three weeks, and a test by North Korea, if it demonstrated that the missile could in fact reach American shores, would present one of the first big national security tests for his administration.
特朗普将在三周不到的时间就任，朝鲜的试验——如果它能证明该导弹的确能够抵达美国海岸的话——将是他领导的政府面临的第一个重大国家安全考验之一。
There was no immediate comment from either North or South Korea on Mr. Trump’s latest remarks.
朝鲜和韩国均未立即对特朗普的最新言论发表评论。
North Korea conducted a nuclear test in the first months of the Obama administration, turning many White House officials against the country — and against the concept of negotiating with it. Early in the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he was willing to sit down with Mr. Kim and perhaps have a hamburger with him. But negotiating with the North would be anathema to many Republicans, and even Mr. Obama, who was willing to talk with the leaders of Cuba and Myanmar, refused to enter negotiations with the North unless it acknowledged that the endpoint of the talks would be a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula.
朝鲜曾在奥巴马政府刚上台的几个月里进行了一次核试验，导致白宫很多官员反对该国，并且反对与它谈判的想法。竞选早期，特朗普自称愿意和金正恩坐下来，或许还能一起吃个汉堡。但和朝鲜谈判会遭到很多共和党人的反对，就连愿意同古巴和缅甸领导人会谈的奥巴马，也拒绝与朝鲜谈判，除非该国承认谈判的落脚点是朝鲜半岛的无核化。
In his New Year’s Day speech, Mr. Kim said he would continue his country’s efforts to build a nuclear-strike capability unless the United States abandoned its “hostile” policy toward the North.
金正恩在元旦当天的演讲中表示，除非美国放弃对朝鲜的“敌对”政策，该国将继续构建核打击能力。
Some analysts have predicted that North Korea will conduct a weapons test in the coming months, taking advantage of leadership changes in both the United States and South Korea.
一些分析人士预测，朝鲜会利用美韩两国更换领导层的时机，在未来几个月进行一次武器试验。
How Mr. Trump would respond to such a provocation is a matter of great concern for South Koreans, who are also struggling with uncertainty in their domestic politics. South Korea’s Parliament voted on Dec. 9 to impeach President Park Geun-hye over a corruption scandal. If the nation’s Constitutional Court decides to formally remove her from office, the country will have a new election within months.
韩国民众非常关注特朗普如何应对这一挑衅，此外他们还面临着国内政治局势不确定的问题。韩国议会12月9日投票决定就一起腐败丑闻弹劾总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)。如果韩国宪法法院(Constitutional Court)决定正式将她免职，该国将在几个月内举行新的选举。