TOKYO — In many respects, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s trip to Washington and Florida to meet and play golf with President Trump went as well as the Japanese leader could have hoped.
东京——从许多方面来看，安倍晋三首相去华盛顿和佛罗里达与特朗普总统会面并打高尔夫的访问，进行的像这位日本领导人可能期待的那样好。
Sure, there was an awkward handshake between the two leaders that may have gone on for too long (and unleashed a meme of Mr. Abe’s uncomfortable facial expression). But after an election campaign in which Mr. Trump frequently criticized Japan on trade issues and accused the country of not paying enough for its military defense, he assured Japan that the relationship between the two countries “runs very, very deep,’’ and showed a deference to Mr. Abe that belied his previous remarks.
当然，这两位领导人令人尴尬的握手也许持续的时间太长了点（并释放了一个安培晋三不舒服的面部表情的米姆[meme]）。但是，在此前的竞选活动中，特朗普曾经常在贸易问题上批评日本，并指责日本没有为自己的军事防御出足够的钱，而现在，他让日本确信，两国之间的关系“非常、非常深远”，他对安倍晋三表现的尊重掩饰了他以前的言论。
Before the visit last week, some in the Japanese news media had gibed Mr. Abe for his apparent eagerness to foster a friendship with Mr. Trump, and some joked that the American president would take advantage of the Japanese leader during their bout of golf diplomacy at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla. But in a Kyodo News poll taken after the meeting, 70 percent of the Japanese public said they were satisfied with the talks between the two leaders, and Mr. Abe’s approval ratings rose slightly from a month earlier to close to 62 percent.
在上周的访问之前，日本新闻媒体上有些人曾对安倍晋三看起来急于与特朗普建立友谊的表现进行讥讽，一些人开玩笑说，他们两人在总统位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)搞高尔夫外交时，美国总统会占日本领导人的便宜。但共同社在两人会面后进行的一个民意调查显示，70％的日本公众说，他们对两位领导人的会谈感到满意，安倍晋三的支持率比一个月前略有上升，达到了近62％。
“In a basic sense, Prime Minister Abe got almost everything he wanted,” said Fumiaki Kubo, a professor of political science at the University of Tokyo. Mr. Trump’s statements in a joint news conference with Mr. Abe were “totally different from what he has been saying about Japan since the 1980s,” Mr. Kubo said. “That is surprising as well as remarkable. In a sense he showed us, including the American public, that he is capable of changing his position on such an important issue as Japan.”
“在一个基本的意义上，安倍首相得到了几乎一切他想要得到的东西，”东京大学政治学教授久保文明(Fumiaki Kubo)说。特朗普在与安倍晋三举行的联合记者会上说的话与“他自从1980年代以来关于日本的说法完全不同，”久保文明说。“这既令人惊讶，也引人注目。在某种意义上，他向包括美国公众在内的人们表示，他能够在像日本这样重要的问题上改变自己的立场。”
Mr. Trump, who as a candidate and president-elect assailed Japan as one of the countries that “do not pay us’’ for defense and repeatedly called for an “America First” economy, ended up thanking the people of Japan for hosting United States troops and called for a trading relationship “that is free, fair and reciprocal, benefiting both of our countries.”
作为候选人和候任总统的特朗普曾抨击日本是在防御上“不掏钱给我们”的国家之一，他一再号称要搞“美国第一”的经济，而如今，他却在感谢日本人民为美国驻军当东道主，还呼吁建立一种“自由、公平、互惠，让我们两国都受益的”贸易关系。
Analysts said it was not surprising that Mr. Abe could get along so well with Mr. Trump. He was the first world leader to meet with the president-elect in November at Trump Tower in New York after the election and only the second, after Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, to meet with President Trump after the inauguration.
分析人士说，安倍晋三能与特朗普搞得这么好一点也不令人惊讶。安倍晋三是去年11月大选结束后，第一位在纽约的特朗普大厦会见当选总统的外国领导人，也是在就职仪式后，与特朗普总统见面的第二位外国领导人，第一位是英国首相特里莎·梅。
Mr. Abe has also been adept at developing relationships with other potentially difficult heads of state.
安倍晋三也擅长与其他可能难处的国家元首发展关系。
“Abe himself is just very good at dealing with strong-willed authoritarian leaders,” said Michael J. Green, a former Asia adviser to President George W. Bush and now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, referring to Mr. Abe’s relationships with leaders including President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.
“安倍本人很善于处理与强硬的专制领导人的关系，”迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说，他是乔治·W·布什总统的前亚洲问题顾问，现在在华盛顿的战略和国际研究中心工作，格林指的是安倍晋三与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京、印度总理纳雷德拉·莫迪，以及土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊德·埃尔多安等领导人的关系。
While the majority of the Japanese public approved of Mr. Abe’s meeting with Mr. Trump, there was some criticism, particularly from the left. The leader of the Japanese Communist Party, Kazuo Shii, decried Mr. Abe for not objecting to Mr. Trump’s travel ban on foreign visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Others cautioned that the mercurial Mr. Trump could easily change his mind if offended, and that Mr. Abe had made himself vulnerable by seeming too eager to align himself with the American president.
虽然大多数日本公众对安倍晋三与特朗普的会面表示赞成，但也有一些批评意见，特别是来自左派的。日本共产党领导人志位和夫(Kazuo Shii)谴责安倍晋三未对特朗普禁止来自七个主要穆斯林国家的外国游客入境的禁令表示反对。还有人警告说，如果受到冒犯，变幻莫测的特朗普可能会很容易地改变主意，安倍晋三似乎太急于公开站在美国总统一边，这已让他本人显得脆弱。
In an editorial, the centrist Mainichi Shimbun said that Mr. Trump might have taken a strategy of “first giving away what Japan desires and then making it impossible for Japan to turn down U.S. demands,” while Hirotoshi Sako, political news editor of the Asahi Shimbun, wrote that “not being able to voice views that may run counter to the will of the other side cannot equate to a mature bilateral relationship.”
中间派报纸《每日新闻》刊登的一篇社论说，特朗普采取的战略也许是，“先送给日本其想要的东西，然后让日本不能拒绝美国的要求。”而《朝日新闻》的政治新闻编辑Hirotoshi Sako则写道，“不能发表可能违背对方意愿的意见，并不等同于一种成熟的双边关系。”
Some analysts said that by pursuing a close friendship with Mr. Trump, Mr. Abe was betraying the moral foundation of the alliance that has endured since the end of World War II.
一些分析人士说，安倍晋三寻求与特朗普建立密切友谊的做法，正在背叛自第二次世界大战结束以来一直持续的两国联盟的道德基础。
“The idea was that the United States is really the standard-bearer of the liberal international order,” said Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo. “Now, obviously with Trump there’s a very big question mark whether the American commitments to these so-called shared values remain the same.”
“人们的概念是，美国是自由国际秩序标准的真正承载者，”东京上智大学的政治学家中野晃一(Koichi Nakano)说。“现在，在特朗普时代，美国对这些所谓的共同价值的承诺是否保持不变，人们很明显有一个很大的问号。”
From a strategic security standpoint, Japan may have few other choices than to continue a strong alliance with the United States.
从战略安全的角度来看，日本可能没有多少其他选择，而是需要继续与美国保持强大的联盟。
“What exactly are Mr. Abe’s or Japan’s options?” said Grant Newsham, senior research fellow at the Japan Forum for Strategic Studies. “What exactly is to be gained if he was to be standoffish or even pick a fight, which doesn’t take much when Mr. Trump’s involved? Japan, really, by itself, cannot handle the security problems in Asia.”
“安倍晋三或日本究到底有哪些选择呢？”日本战略研究论坛高级研究员格兰特·纽山姆(Grant Newsham)问道。“如果他选择不友好、甚至吵上一架，涉及到特朗普时，吵架并不需要多少，但这样做，安倍晋三究竟能获得什么呢？日本确实不能靠自己来处理亚洲的安全问题。”
Mr. Trump may also be coming to realize that with a rising China, Japan is its best ally in Asia.
特朗普也许也意识到，面对中国的崛起，日本是美国在亚洲最好的盟友。
“The logical conclusion is that, from the strategic point of view, Japan and the United States are still in full sync,” said Kunihiko Miyake, a former Japanese diplomat now teaching at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto.
“合乎逻辑的结论是，从战略的角度来看，日本和美国仍然完全同步，”日本前外交官、目前在京都立命馆大学执教的宮家邦彦(Kunihiko Miyake)说。
Before the American election, the Japanese government had clearly preferred Hillary Clinton to Mr. Trump. But now that he has been elected, some analysts believe he could inadvertently help Mr. Abe in his own ambitions to strengthen Japan’s military and increase military spending.
美国大选之前，日本政府明显地希望希拉里·克林顿获胜，而不是特朗普。但是如今他已当选，一些分析人士认为，特朗普可能在无意中帮助安倍晋三实现自己加强日本军备、增加日本军费的野心。
Although he has been assiduous about currying favor with Mr. Trump, Mr. Abe has also pursued a program of diplomacy throughout Southeast Asia, visiting countries like Vietnam and the Philippines in recent months.
虽然安倍晋三一直在努力巴结特朗普，但是他也在整个东南亚地区进行着自己的外交计划，他曾在最近几个月里访问了越南和菲律宾等国家。
One Achilles’ heel: South Korea, where relations between Tokyo and Seoul are fraught after Japan recalled its envoy to South Korea last month to protest a statue commemorating Korean women who were forced into sexual slavery for Japanese soldiers during World War II.
一个致命弱点是韩国。日本为抗议一个纪念韩国妇女被迫在二战期间为日本士兵当性奴的塑像，在上月召回了其驻韩国的大使，让东京与首尔的关系陷入令人焦虑的境地。
Analysts said that other than the United States, South Korea is Japan’s most important ally in the region. “It’s so close and bigger than all of them, except India,” Mr. Green said. For Japan, he said, South Korea remains “a blind spot.”
分析人士说，除了美国，韩国是日本在该地区最重要的盟友。格林说，“韩国比所有其他国家都近、都大，印度除外。”他说，日本仍“没有认识到”韩国的重要性。