MANILA — The extravagant red-carpet welcome he received from President Xi Jinping in China, President Trump said, was one like no other American president had ever gotten.
马尼拉——美国总统特朗普说，中国国家主席习近平给予他的那种隆重的红地毯欢迎仪式，是从前的美国总统都未曾得到过的。
America’s relationship with President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines — accused of a bloody campaign of extrajudicial killings in his nation’s drug war — was now “better than ever,” he proclaimed.
特朗普宣称，美国与菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)的关系目前“比以往任何时候都好”，杜特地被指控在菲律宾国内的禁毒战中有法外杀戮的血腥行径。
After a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, he said the two were developing “a very good feeling for each other” — despite what he later called efforts of “haters and fools” to drive them apart.
特朗普在与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)会晤之后表示，两国正在展现出“一种彼此之间非常好的感觉”——尽管有他后来称之为“仇恨者和傻瓜”的人离间两国关系的企图。
Like most things that Mr. Trump undertakes, the president treated the grueling 12-day trip through Asia that he wrapped up here on Tuesday as a test of his own personal charisma and stamina, a marathon charm offensive that he vowed would yield quick results.
就像特朗普从事的大多数事情一样，这位总统把周二结束的为期12天的亚洲之行，视为对自己个人魅力和耐力的检验，他把行程当作一次他发誓会有立竿见影效果的马拉松式魅力攻势。
Never mind that it is not at all clear what he actually achieved. Mr. Trump left China, without any concrete agreements on opening Chinese markets. His unilateral “America First” message fell flat in Vietnam, where other nations moved forward on a Pacific trade deal that won’t include the United States.
他到底取得了什么结果目前一点也不清楚，但这不要紧。特朗普曾对中国表示失望，不过，他离开中国时并没带着任何关于开放中国市场的具体协议。他的“美国第一”的单边信息在越南没有达到预期效果，其他来这里开会的国家向前推进了一项不包括美国在内的太平洋贸易协议。
His go-it-alone approach may also undermine Mr. Trump’s own efforts, laid out in a forceful speech in Seoul, South Korea, to unite the world against the nuclear threat from North Korea.
特朗普的这种孤军作战也许也削弱了他本人的努力，他在韩国首尔发表强有力讲话时曾呼吁世界各国团结起来，共同应对朝鲜的核威胁。
Still, the president, citing the lavish receptions he received at every stop, treated friendly photo opportunities as goals in and of themselves.
尽管如此，特朗普把行程的每一站自己受到的盛大欢迎引以为豪，把拍友好照片的机会本身作为此行的目的。
“It’s been very epic,” Mr. Trump said. “There’s nobody that I can think of that I don’t have a very good relationship with.”
“这是一次史诗级的（旅行），”特朗普说。“我想不出有什么我与之没有友好关系的人。”
In Beijing, Mr. Xi treated his American counterpart to what Mr. Trump called a “state-plus-plus” visit, complete with a sunset tour of the Forbidden City and a grand welcome ceremony in front of the Great Hall of the People.
在北京，习近平招待这位美国总统的方式，让特朗普称自己对中国进行了一次“国事++”访问，他享受了日落之际游故宫、人民大会堂前受隆重欢迎的待遇。
In Tokyo, Mr. Trump played golf with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who gave him gilded baseball hats that said “Donald and Shinzo Make Alliance Even Greater.” They fed koi together at the Akasaka Palace in Tokyo, an episode that sparked a social media craze after video circulated of Mr. Abe tossing the last of his food at the fish and Mr. Trump, in turn, dumping his.
在东京，特朗普与日本首相安倍晋三打了高尔夫。安倍晋三还送给特朗普一顶棒球帽，上面印有“唐纳德和晋三让联盟更强大”（Donald and Shinzo Make Alliance Even Greater）的镀金字。他们在东京迎宾馆赤坂离宫一起喂了锦鲤，有关视频传上社交媒体后引发了热捧，视频中，安倍晋三把最后一点饲料向锦鲤投去，特朗普随后把自己手中的鱼食直接倒了进去。
Through it all, Mr. Trump appeared to be making an effort to be a good sport. He joined other leaders in donning the matching, culturally appropriate shirts that are slightly silly staples of Asian summitry: an electric-blue silk one at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Da Nang, Vietnam, and a white sheer embroidered one in Manila at the gathering of the Association of South East Asian Nations. In Manila, he grimaced while jostling with Southeast Asian leaders for an awkward cross-armed handshake that was captured in a group photograph.
特朗普似乎自始至终都在努力表现自己是讲交情的人。他和其他领导人一起穿上了相同的民族风格衬衫，这是亚洲峰会上一个有点可笑的惯例，在越南岘港的亚太经济合作组织峰会上穿的是铁蓝色绸衫，在马尼拉的东南亚国家联盟峰会上穿的是白色绣花衫。在马尼拉，他在与东南亚领导人站成一排交叉握手时感到有点尴尬，这个时刻被他们的合影捕捉到了。
Asked about the single biggest accomplishment of his trip, Mr. Trump told reporters on Air Force One on his way home: “I think we made a lot of progress, just in terms of relationship.”
在乘坐“空军一号”回国的路上，有人问特朗普他此行最大的收获是什么，他对记者说：“我觉得，就发展关系而言，我们取得了很大的进展。”
Mr. Trump will have you know he isn’t tired
特朗普会让你知道他不累
It was Day 9 of his 12-day slog through Asia, and President Trump felt like gloating.
在他12天亚洲之行的第九天，特朗普感到有点沾沾自喜。
“Anybody that took the bet, pick up your money, O.K.?” he told reporters traveling with him from Da Nang to Hanoi, Vietnam.
他对与他一起从越南岘港飞往河内的记者说，“想打赌的人，把你的钱收起来吧，怎么样？”
“A lot of people said it’s almost physically impossible for someone to go through 12 days,” he added.
“很多人说，一般的人连续跑12天对身体来说几乎是不可能的，”他补充道。
Mr. Trump, of course, is not just someone. He is a president who, at age 71, eschews physical exercise, covets his own bed and is a lover of junk food and red meat. Even some of the president’s own aides feared he might be laid low by a trip spanning five countries half a world away from home.
当然，特朗普可不是一般的人。他是一位71岁的总统，不喜欢锻炼，喜欢在自己的床上睡觉，喜欢吃垃圾食品和红肉。就连总统本人的一些助手也担心，这次远离美国的横跨五国旅行可能会让他的身体吃不消。
“Really hard,” Mr. Trump told journalists along for the ride.
“真的很不容易，”特朗普对随行记者说。
White House officials, who had initially urged Mr. Trump to cut the tour into two separate trips to Asia, took pains to ease the load for the president. They built down time into his schedule almost every afternoon and made sure he had access, where possible, to familiar foods. Twice — as he was heading to Hanoi, and then from there to Manila — they diverted Air Force One on circuitous routes to allow Mr. Trump to depart earlier than planned from one stop and still stay on schedule for the next.
白宫官员起初曾劝特朗普把这次亚洲之行分为两次，后来他们煞费苦心地为总统减轻负担。他们在特朗普日程上的几乎每个下午都给他留出休息的时间，并确保他在所有可能的地方都能吃到他熟悉的食物。有两次，一次是他前往河内时，另一次是从河内飞往马尼拉时，他们让“空军一号”绕道飞行，让特朗普能提前离开一站，但在下一站仍按计划行事。
The president, though, did not take kindly to any hint that he might not be up to the journey. On Sunday, he chafed when North Korea’s state-run news agency responded to his Seoul speech by calling Mr. Trump a “lunatic old man.”
但特朗普不喜欢任何表示他可能无法完成这趟旅程的暗示。周日，朝鲜官方通讯社在回应特朗普在首尔的讲话时称他是个“疯老头”，他大为恼火。
“Why would Kim Jong-un insult me by calling me ‘old’ when I would NEVER call him ‘short and fat?’ ” Mr. Trump shot back on Twitter, referring to the North Korean leader.
“金正恩(Kim Jong-un)为什么骂我‘老’，我从不说他‘又矮又胖’？”特朗普在Twitter上对这位朝鲜领导人进行了反击。
Even as Mr. Trump showed the first signs of fatigue at summit meetings during the final two days, he made sure other leaders took note of his staying power.
即便在最后两天的峰会期间表现出了疲惫迹象，他也确保其他领导人注意到他的耐力。
“We’ve had 12 days — I don’t know, how many days have you had there?” he said, turning to Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India at the start of their meeting on Monday.
“我们已经待了12天了，不知道你在那待过多久？”周一的会议一开始，他就转身问印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)。
He also made a point of noting that the press corps traveling with him was looking somewhat ragged.
他还特意指出，随他出访的记者们看上去有些疲惫不堪。
“My press — I feel so sorry for them, they’re exhausted,” the president said as he departed midway through the summit meetings in Manila on Tuesday, skipping a group photograph and plenary session. “Would you like to stop in another couple of countries? Because we can do that if you want.”
“我的记者团，我很同情他们，他们已经筋疲力尽了，”特朗普周二离开时说。当时，马尼拉的峰会还没有结束。他跳过了拍集体照和开全体会议的环节。“你们想再去几个国家吗？因为我们可以这么做，如果你们想去的话。”
The first lady tours a big, beautiful wall
第一夫人游览了一座巨大而美丽的墙
Melania Trump looked lonely.
梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)看上去有些孤独。
Trading her trademark stiletto heels for a pair of nude flats, Mrs. Trump spent a solitary afternoon last week pacing the Great Wall of China without her husband — a lover of big, beautiful walls himself — who had skipped a visit to one of the Seven Wonders of the World to move on to several days of summit meetings in Southeast Asia.
上周，她把标志性的细高跟鞋换成了平底鞋，独自在爬长城的过程中度过了一个下午。本身喜欢高大、美丽墙体的丈夫没有陪在她身边。他略过了游览世界七大奇迹之一的环节，继续前往东南亚，参加接下来几天的峰会。
So Mrs. Trump struck out on her own, taking a cable car to the Mutianyu section of the ancient structure, then striding along the top with only a tour guide, an aide and a clutch of Secret Service agents for company. As she gazed out pensively in the waning afternoon light, photographers snapped pictures of Mrs. Trump, a former fashion model, that looked worthy of a magazine spread.
因此，她独自行动，乘坐缆车抵达慕田峪段古长城，然后一路登顶。在此期间，她身边只有一名导游、一名助手和一群特情局(Secret Service)的特工。曾是时装模特的她在午后越来越暗的光线中若有所思地凝视着远方时，摄影师拍下了这些画面。这些照片看上去可以作为杂志的跨页照。
Reporters, as usual for this first lady and others, were kept at a far distance.
记者被要求待在远处。对这位第一夫人和其他人来说，这是惯例。
“This is beautiful,” Mrs. Trump said according to an aide who was with her. “This is amazing.”
“太美了，”据在她身边的一名助手称，梅拉尼娅说。“太了不起了。”
Earlier, she had visited the Beijing Zoo, meeting Chinese children and a panda named Gu Gu, who was described as the zoo’s “panda star.”
早前，她参观了北京动物园，见到了中国的孩子们和一只叫古古的熊猫。这只熊猫据说是该动物园的“明星熊猫”。
The Asia trip was not all tourism and spectating for Mrs. Trump, however. When the president set off on a surprise, ultimately aborted trip to the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea, he skipped a meet-and-greet with embassy staff in Seoul; Mrs. Trump spoke in his stead.
然而，对梅拉尼娅来说，此次亚洲之行完全不是旅游观光。当特朗普突然出发要去朝鲜与韩国之间的非军事区，但最终未能成行时，他跳过了会见和慰问首尔的大使馆工作人员的活动。梅拉尼娅代他发表了讲话。