WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump and his team renewed a trans-Atlantic feud with the mayor of London on Sunday, portraying him as soft on terrorism a day after seven people were killed and dozens more wounded in the latest attack in the British capital.
华盛顿——周日，唐纳德·特朗普及其团队又隔着大西洋和伦敦市长叫板，称他在反恐问题上太软弱；就在一天前，英国首都发生了一次袭击案，导致七人遇难，数十人受伤。
Trump assailed Mayor Sadiq Khan by mischaracterizing his comments after the attack. After condemning the “cowardly terrorists,” Khan told Londoners not “to be alarmed” by seeing more police officers on the streets. Trump presented it as if Khan had meant they should not be alarmed by terrorism. The mayor’s office fired back, calling Trump “ill informed.”
在这次袭击事件后，特朗普误读萨迪克·汗(Sadiq Khan)的说法，然后对他进行指责。汗本来是谴责“懦弱的恐怖分子”，并且告诉伦敦人，不要因为在街上看到更多的警察而感到惊慌。但特朗普说得好像是汗认为大家不应该因为恐怖主义感到惊慌。伦敦市长办公室发起反击，称特朗普“消息有误”。
The highly charged exchange as Britain grappled once again with the threat of terrorism at home reflected the tensions between Trump and the United States’ traditional allies in Europe. Trump returned home a little more than a week ago after meetings in Belgium and Italy that put on display disputes over trade and the role of NATO, then followed up by pulling the United States out of the Paris climate change accord, over the objections of European leaders.
在英国再次遭受恐怖主义威胁之际，这种言辞激烈的摩擦反映出特朗普与美国在欧洲的传统盟友之间的紧张关系。一个多星期前，特朗普在比利时和意大利开会时把在贸易和北约作用上的争议摆上桌面，回到美国之后，他又不顾欧洲领导人的反对，把美国从巴黎气候协定中撤出。
The friction has been especially acute for more than a year between Trump and Khan, the first Muslim to serve as mayor of a major Western European capital. During last year’s presidential contest, Khan criticized Trump’s proposal to temporarily ban all Muslims from entering the United States and endorsed Hillary Clinton, prompting an exchange with Trump’s campaign. Trump’s son Donald Jr. criticized Khan as recently as March.
特朗普与汗之间的摩擦在一年多的时间里尤为严重，汗是第一位担任西欧主要首都市长的穆斯林。在去年的总统大选期间，他批评特朗普要求暂时禁止所有穆斯林进入美国的建议，并支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，因此与特朗普的竞选班子展开了一番唇枪舌战。特朗普的儿子小唐纳德(Donald Jr.)在三月还批评过汗。
The president’s initial reaction to the Saturday night attack in London was to offer traditional messages of support and solidarity. By Sunday morning, however, he trained his scorn on Khan.
总统对于周六晚上伦敦袭击案的初步反应遵循了传统，传达了支持和团结的信息。不过，在周日早间，他却嘲笑了汗。
“At least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and Mayor of London says there is ‘no reason to be alarmed!'” Trump wrote on Twitter.
“恐怖袭击造成至少7人死亡，48人受伤，而伦敦市长还表示‘无需感到惊慌！’”特朗普在Twitter上写道。
Either Trump misunderstood what Khan had said or distorted it. During an interview shown on the BBC, the mayor said he was “appalled and furious that these cowardly terrorists would target” innocent civilians and vowed that “we will never let them win, nor will we allow them to cower our city.”
特朗普误解或者是歪曲了汗说的话。在BBC的采访中，市长的意思是他对这些懦弱的恐怖分子把“无辜平民”当作目标感到“震惊和愤怒”，市长还发誓说：“我们永远不会让他们赢，我们也不会让他们吓倒我们的城市。”
He went on to say that residents should not worry as they encounter more police officers patrolling the streets.
他还说，在看到更多警察在街上巡逻的时候，民众无需担心。
“Londoners will see an increased police presence today and over the course of the next few days,” Khan said. “No reason to be alarmed. One of the things, the police, all of us need to do, is make sure we’re as safe as we possibly can be. I’m reassured that we are one of the safest global cities in the world, if not the safest global city in the world, but we always evolve and review ways to make sure that we remain as safe as we possibly can.”
“伦敦人今天和今后几天里将看到更多的警察，”汗说。“无需感到惊慌，警察和我们所有人要做的一件事情，就是确保大家真的是尽可能安全。我很确定，我们即使不是世界上最安全的国际都市，也是之一，但我们总是在提高和检讨各种方式，以确保我们尽可能安全。”
Khan’s office later dismissed the president’s post, saying the mayor was too busy to reply. “He has more important things to do than respond to Donald Trump’s ill-informed tweet that deliberately takes out of context his remarks urging Londoners not to be alarmed when they saw more police — including armed officers — on the streets,” a spokesman for the mayor said in a statement.
汗的办公室后来反驳了总统的帖子，说市长太忙了，无法回复。“他有更重要的事情要做，而不是回应唐纳德·特朗普消息有误的、故意断章取义的推文。市长说的是伦敦人在街上看到更多警察的时候无需惊慌——包括武装警察，”市长的发言人在一份声明中说。
Critics of Trump in Britain and the United States faulted him for his acrimonious response to the Saturday assault. “I don’t think that a major terrorist attack like this is the time to be divisive and to criticize a mayor who’s trying to organize his city’s response to this attack,” former Vice President Al Gore said on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday.
特朗普对周六袭击案作出的尖刻反应，也招致他在英美批评者中的责难。前副总统艾尔·戈尔(Al Gore)周日在CNN《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目中说：“我认为，这种重大恐怖袭击发生之际不是搞分裂的时候，不是批评一个正在设法带领自己的城市应对袭击的市长的时候。”
But the White House showed no signs of backing down, and a top aide to Trump amplified the attack shortly afterward. Dan Scavino, the president’s director of social media, posted a message referring to Khan’s criticism of Trump a year ago for his “ignorant view of Muslims.”
但是，白宫没有表现出任何让步的迹象，不久之后，特朗普的一名高级助手加大了攻击力度。社交媒体总监丹·斯卡维诺(Dan Scavino)发表了一则消息，提到了汗一年前批评特朗普说他“对穆斯林很无知”。
Other parts of the U.S. government sought to smooth over the dispute. “I commend the strong leadership of the @MayorofLondon as he leads the city forward after this heinous attack,” Lew Lukens, a career diplomat serving as acting U.S. ambassador to London, wrote on Twitter hours later.
美国政府的其他一些部门则在寻求平息争端。美国驻伦敦临时代理大使、职业外交官刘易斯·卢肯斯(Lewis Lukens)几个小时之后在Twitter上写道：“我赞扬@MayorofLondon强大的领导力，他在这场严重的袭击事件之后领导这个城市开展行动。”
Trump at first responded with similar expressions of an ally and called Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain on Saturday night to offer condolences. A statement from the White House said that the president had “praised the heroic response of police and other first responders and offered the full support of the United States government in investigating and bringing those responsible for these heinous acts to justice.”
特朗普首先以盟友的惯常方式做出回应，在周六晚上给英国首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)打去了慰问电话。白宫在一份声明中表示，总统“赞扬了警察和其他第一批响应者的英勇行为，并表示美国会全力支持展开调查，将制造这些恶行的人绳之以法”。
But as the hours passed and Saturday night turned into Sunday morning, Trump pivoted to cite the attack to build support for his proposed travel ban on visitors from select Muslim-majority countries, which has been blocked by the courts, and to argue that gun control was pointless because terrorists in this case used other weapons.
但几个小时之后，到了周日早上，特朗普转而利用这次袭击来为他的旅游禁令寻求支持；旅行禁令已经被法院推翻，它禁止一些来自穆斯林占多数国家的游客入境。特朗普还表示，枪支管控没有意义，因为在本案中，恐怖分子使用了其他武器。
“We need the courts to give us back our rights. We need the Travel Ban as an extra level of safety!” he wrote in one message.
“我们需要法院把权利还给我们，我们需要旅行禁令提供更高的安全级别！”他在一条推文中写道。
“We must stop being politically correct and get down to the business of security for our people,” he wrote in another. “If we don’t get smart it will only get worse.”
“我们必须停止政治正确，认真对待人民的安危问题。”他在另一条推文中写道，“如果我们不聪明一些，情况只会变得更糟。”
“Do you notice we are not having a gun debate right now?” he added Sunday morning. “That’s because they used knives and a truck!”
“注意到了吗，到现在都还没有枪支控制的讨论？”他周日上午说。“那是因为他们用的是刀和卡车！”
Gun control advocates quickly noted that the casualty toll might have been much higher had the attackers had access to high-powered firearms. Britain has some of the world’s strictest regulations on private gun ownership.
枪支控制倡导者马上指出，如果袭击者使用的是火力强大的枪支，伤亡人数可能会更大。英国对于私人持有枪支有一些世界上最严格的管控举措。