WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump has widened an extraordinary rift with his own party, as he threatened a government shutdown over his long-promised border wall and attacked key lawmakers whose votes he needs heading into a crucial legislative period.
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统就他长期承诺的边境墙威胁关闭政府，并攻击关键的议员，加剧了与他所在政党不同寻常的分歧。而特朗普需要这些议员的支持，才能进入一个关键的立法阶段。
The escalating tensions between the Republican president and the Republican Congress endanger delicate negotiations in the coming weeks to overhaul the tax system, keep the government running and avoid a costly default on the country’s debt. They are the clearest signs to date that the uncomfortable alliance between Trump, who won the presidency promising to “drain the swamp,” and Republican lawmakers who hoped to enact long-stalled conservative priorities, has begun to fray.
共和党出身的总统和共和党把控的国会日渐升级的紧张关系，危及接下来几周围绕改革税收制度、保持政府运转和避免代价高昂的美国债务违约举行的微妙谈判。它们是迄今为止，因承诺“抽干沼泽”而赢得总统职位的特朗普，与希望通过停滞已久的保守派优先立法项目的共和党议员之间令人不安的联盟已开始出现裂痕的最清晰迹象。
In a challenge to Republicans late Tuesday, Trump threatened to shut down the government in a matter of weeks if Congress did not fund the wall on the southern border that was a signature promise of his campaign for the White House.
周二晚上，特朗普向共和党发出挑战，威胁如果国会不为在南部边境筑墙提供资金，他便会在几周内关闭政府。边境墙是他竞选总统期间的一个标志性承诺。
“If we have to close down our government, we’re building that wall,” Trump told a raucous rally in Phoenix as his supporters chanted, “Build that wall!”
“不想关闭政府，就修墙，”特朗普在菲尼克斯一个闹哄哄的集会上说，现场的支持者高喊着“修墙”的口号。
“The American people voted for immigration control — that’s one of the reasons I’m here,” he added. “One way or the other, we’re going to get that wall.”
“美国人民支持移民控制，这也是我站在这里的原因之一，”他接着说。“无论如何，我们都会把墙修起来。”
On Wednesday, he followed up on the threat by attacking Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona, a Republican who has said he is skeptical of building a border wall between the United States and Mexico unless, as Trump promised, Mexico pays for it. Flake is one of two Republican senators up for re-election next year in a swing state, and the president has put his finger on the scale toward a primary challenger, Kelli Ward.
周三，继发出上述威胁后，特朗普攻击亚利桑那州共和党参议员杰夫·弗莱克(Jeff Flake)。弗莱克曾表示自己对于在美国和墨西哥之间修一堵边境墙持怀疑态度，除非像特朗普承诺的那样，由墨西哥出资。弗莱克是准备明年在摇摆州谋取连任的两名共和党参议员之一，而特朗普却偏向于他的主要挑战者凯利·沃德(Kelli Ward)。
And amid a frosty period in his relationship with Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, Trump questioned the Senate leader’s approach, faulting Republicans for failing to blow up long-standing Senate rules that make most legislation subject to a filibuster that requires 60 votes to overcome.
此外，与参议院多数党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)关系冷淡的特朗普质疑他的方式，指责共和党未能取消参议院一些由来已久的规定。相关规定导致大部分立法都会受拖延战术的影响。要战胜拖延战术，须获得60张赞成票。
McConnell on Wednesday sought to play down the friction between himself and the president, issuing a statement in which he insisted that their common legislative priorities were on track.
周三当天，麦康奈尔试图淡化自己和总统之间的分歧。他发表了一份声明，坚称他们共同的重点立法项目正在正常推进。
“The president and I, and our teams, have been and continue to be in regular contact about our shared goals,” McConnell said.
“我和总统，以及我们的团队，一直并将继续就我们共同的目标定期联系，”麦康奈尔说。