President Trump’s old office on the 26th floor of Trump Tower in Manhattan sits unoccupied now, unofficial storage space for the gathering trove of memorabilia that his two oldest sons say they hope will eventually be turned over to their father’s presidential library.
特朗普总统位于曼哈顿特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)26层的旧办公室目前已经无人使用，成了汇聚大量纪念品的非正式存储空间。他的两个年龄较大的儿子表示，他们希望最终把这些东西转给父亲的总统图书馆。
But just one flight down, in Eric and Donald Trump Jr.’s cramped offices, their father is ever-present — in the seven copies of a recent issue of Golf Digest with his photo and the headline “Golfer-in-Chief” on the cover stacked on Eric’s desk; in his visage looping endlessly on CNN (yes, they watch CNN); in the cardboard cutout of the president watching from behind a stash of blueprints in the corner.
但仅仅一层楼之下，在埃里克和小唐纳德·特朗普的办公室里，他们的父亲从未离开过：他存在于七本堆放在埃里克案头的新一期《高尔夫文摘》(Golf Digest)中，封面图是总统的照片，标题为“高尔夫总司令”(Golfer-in-Chief)；存在于CNN的节目里，屏幕上无休止地循环出现总统的面容（没错，他们看CNN）；存在于总统的人形纸板上——他站在角落里的一堆蓝图后面注视着一切。
This is the conundrum facing the two brothers as they assume control of the empire their father built: How do they move forward, and navigate the ethical shoals, at a business predicated entirely on the brand of the man they have vowed to distance themselves from?
这是两兄弟在接管父亲创办的商业帝国之际面临的难题：他们已经发誓会和父亲保持距离，但这个公司完全以父亲的个人品牌为基础，他们如何才能在前行的同时避开道德陷阱？
“His DNA will always be in the company in a big way,” Eric said, during nearly five hours of interviews over two days last week at Trump Tower. “His DNA built the company. His DNA also built us. We’re extensions of him in so many ways.”
“他的DNA将一直广泛存在于公司之中，”上周，埃里克在特朗普大厦接受采访时说。采访分两天进行，时长接近5个小时。“他的DNA塑造了这家公司。他的DNA塑造了我们。我们在很多方面都是他的延续。”
Both he and Don Jr. insist that they do not need their father’s input to run the company — the apprentices have become the boss. And even as questions remain about potential conflicts of interest, they say, unapologetically, that they plan to forge ahead with expanding the Trump Organization’s footprint, both in the United States and abroad.
埃里克和小唐纳德都表示，他们运营公司时并不需要父亲插手——学徒已经出师了。此外，关于潜在利益冲突的质疑尚未消散，他们便毫无顾忌地声称，他们决意勇往直前，在美国和海外拓展特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的版图。
On Saturday, in fact, they will cut ribbon at their company’s newest branded property, billed as a “magnificent golf course” in the booming United Arab Emirates city of Dubai, before hundreds of Emirati power brokers.
事实上，周六，他们将抵达蓬勃发展的阿联酋城市迪拜，在成百上千阿联酋权力掮客面前，为公司最新的品牌物业剪彩——他们称之为一座“宏伟的高尔夫球场”。
A week later they will head to Vancouver, British Columbia, for another opening celebration, of the latest Trump International Hotel and Tower, one of a dozen major international projects still underway, from the Dominican Republic to India.
一周后，他们将前往不列颠哥伦比亚省的温哥华，出席另一场为最新一所特朗普国际酒店和大厦(Trump International Hotel and Tower)举办的开业庆典——那是遍及多米尼加共和国和印度等地的十多个在建的大型国际项目之一。
Back home in the United States, they are planning to open a new boutique hotel chain, Scion, in perhaps 30 cities.
在大本营美国，他们打算新开办遍及约30个城市的精品酒店连锁Scion。
With the aggressive push forward, though, comes the persistent thrum of ethical qualm.
但他们的锐意进取，引发了挥之不去的伦理疑虑。
Just last week, news that Eric had traveled to the Dominican Republic to restart a stalled project there prompted controversy, given the Trump Organization’s pledge of no new overseas deals. The Washington Post reported that when Eric visited Uruguay on business in January, the trip cost taxpayers nearly $100,000 in hotel bills for the required Secret Service agents and for embassy staff members. Also echoing through the office at Trump Tower was the dust-up over the decision by Nordstrom and several other retailers to stop selling their sister Ivanka’s clothing line.
就在上星期，有消息称，埃里克曾赶赴多米尼加共和国，重启那里的一个陷入停滞的项目，这一消息激起了争议，因为特朗普集团已经承诺不会在海外开展新业务。据《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)报道，埃里克于1月份赴乌拉圭进行商务旅行期间，随行特情局特工以及大使馆工作人员的住宿费花去了纳税人将近10万美元。另外，诺德斯特龙(Nordstrom)以及其他几个零售商决定下架伊万卡服装品牌一事引发的喧嚣，也在位于特朗普大厦的办公室里回响。
Don Jr. called that “disgusting,” and both brothers said their father was right to take Nordstrom and other retailers to task publicly in Ivanka’s defense.
小唐纳德称这一决定“令人恶心”。兄弟俩都表示，他们的父亲为了捍卫伊万卡而公开谴责诺德斯特龙以及其他几家零售商的做法没有错。
“He’s Papa Bear,” Eric said.
“他是‘熊爸爸’(Papa Bear)，”埃里克说。
Despite pressure to do so, President Trump has not sold any of his assets, which include a stake in a half-dozen office buildings, more than a dozen golf courses and at least 15 hotels that the company owns or manages. Instead, he has signed over control of day-to-day operations of his privately held company to the two sons and Allen Weisselberg, a trusted lieutenant at the Trump Organization, with an agreement not to discuss company business.
尽管面临着压力，特朗普总统尚未出售自己的任何资产——其中包括在公司拥有或管理的六座办公楼、十几座高尔夫球场以及至少15座酒店中的股权。相反，他借助一纸不讨论公司业务的协议，将他私人拥有的这家公司的日常经营管理权授予了他的两个儿子，以及他在特朗普集团的一名信得过副手——阿伦·H·魏塞尔贝格(Allen H. Weisselberg)。
The arrangement and the president’s decision to not release his taxes have brought widespread criticism from liberal groups and even the federal government’s top ethics watchdog, Walter M. Shaub Jr., the director of the Office of Government Ethics. President Trump has continued to frequent his commercial properties, including over the weekend in Florida, bringing them global media attention and potential new customers.
这份协议以及总统做出的不公开其纳税状况的决定，引发了来自自由派团体的广泛批评，就连联邦政府内最高级别的道德监察官、政府道德事务办公室(Office of Government Ethics)主任小沃尔特·M·肖布(Walter M. Shaub Jr.)都颇有微词。特朗普总统仍旧时常造访其商业物业——周末便造访了位于佛罗里达州的一处——使得它们受到全球媒体的关注，并给它们带来了潜在的新客户。
But the brothers say they are convinced that they and their father have taken sufficient steps to create a management structure that will allow them to avoid creating the kind of appearance of conflict of interest that plagued Hillary Clinton as secretary of state while her husband continued to operate the Clinton Foundation. The measures they have taken, they say, have included explicit instructions to their domestic and international business partners not to reach out to anyone in the United States government for help.
但兄弟俩说他们确信，他们和父亲已经采取了足够多的举措，设立了一种管理结构，让他们得以避开希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)担任国务卿、丈夫继续运营克林顿基金(Clinton Foundation)期间困扰着她的那种明显的利益冲突。他们说，他们采取的举措包括，明确告知国内外的生意伙伴，不要为了寻求帮助而联系美国政府中的任何人。
The brothers’ expressions tightened and their voices rose when they were asked, in separate interviews, about suggestions that their father was using the presidency as a way to enhance the family’s profits.
在单独的采访中被问及父亲正利用总统职务给家族谋私利这一说法时，兄弟俩的措辞变得颇为严厉，声调也提高了。
“Who in their right mind would try to enrich themselves by spending a fortune to run against 17 seasoned politicians on the Republican side, to then go up against the Clinton machine, Wall Street, Hollywood, P.C. culture?” Don Jr. asked. “To use that as the way to enrich yourself is laughable.”
“一个正常人会为了肥自己的腰包，花一大笔钱与共和党里17位经验丰富的政治家竞争，然后再去跟克林顿的竞选机器斗，跟华尔街、好莱坞和政治正确文化斗？”小唐纳德问道。“用这种办法肥自己腰包还真是可笑。”
The family, he added, would face heat whatever it did. If the Trump Organization sold its assets, there would be allegations of impropriety, as foreign investors would most likely be involved. If it liquidated and put the cash into the bank, he said, his father would be accused of artificially inflating interest rates for personal gain.
他还表示，特朗普家族不论做什么都会面临批评。如果特朗普集团出售资产，人们就会指责其行事不当，因为外国投资者极有可能被牵扯进来。如果它进行清盘并把现金存入银行，他说人们就会指责他父亲刻意让利率升高，以便谋取个人利益。
For critics, though, particularly Democrats in Congress, the continuation of the global operations of the Trump Organization — even if President Trump is not directly involved — is fraught with problems, with even some Republican observers questioning whether the brothers can steer clear of trouble, regardless of their intentions.
不过，在批评者——尤其是民主党国会议员看来，即便特朗普总统并未直接参与其中，特朗普集团继续在全球开展业务这件事本身也充满了问题。就连一些共和党观察人士也怀疑，两兄弟是否能够避开麻烦，不管他们愿不愿意这样做。
Even with no new foreign deals, the company is in a position to get tax breaks and other business inducements from state and local officials. While such incentives are hardly unusual for growing businesses, with this family business they will unavoidably raise questions of whether different players involved might be seeking special White House favors.
即便不在海外开展新业务，该公司目前也能够从美国的州和地方官员那里获得税收减免以及其他优惠待遇。为了发展商业而提供这类优惠并不是什么不同寻常的做法，但如果特朗普家族的企业享受了优惠，便会不可避免引发如下质疑：牵涉其中的各方是否有可能寻求白宫方面的特别帮助。
“People are going to offer them sweetheart deals,” said Peter Schweizer, the conservative author whose book “Clinton Cash” argued, among other things, that Mrs. Clinton had used her position as secretary of state to favor donors to the foundation.
“人们会想要和他们达成见不得人的交易，”著有《克林顿现金》(Clinton Cash)一书的彼得·施韦泽(Peter Schweizer)说。施韦泽在书中表示，克林顿曾利用国务卿之职为克林顿基金的捐赠者提供帮助。
“It is just the way it works, as it comes down to the fact that people want access to national leaders in the country, and unfortunately in the past, be it Billy Carter, Neil Bush or Roger Clinton, relatives become vehicles to accomplishing that,” Mr. Schweizer added, referring to relatives in past administrations who drew scrutiny because of their business activities.
“事情一向如此。归根结底，人们想要接近国家领导人，而且遗憾的是，领导人的亲属，不论是比利·卡特(Billy Carter)、尼尔·布什(Neil Bush)还是罗杰·克林顿(Roger Clinton)，此前都成了达成这一目的的工具，”施韦泽补充道。他指的是往届政府官员的那些因从事商业活动而受到审视的亲属。
The two oldest brothers have worked in various roles at the Trump Organization for much of their adult lives, but without their father’s daily presence — and with the departure of Ivanka from the company offices — their responsibilities have grown. Eric Trump, 33, oversees construction and says he, not his father, is now the named officer on hundreds of Trump companies. Don Jr., 39, is in charge of commercial leasing, as well as many of the remaining companies.
这两个年纪较大的儿子成年后长期在特朗普集团工作，扮演过各种角色，但父亲不再常驻公司——伊万卡也离开了公司的办公室——使得他们要担起更多责任。现年33岁、掌管建筑业务的埃里克·特朗普说，眼下，特朗普旗下数百家企业的头面人物是他，而不是他父亲。现年39岁的小唐纳德则掌管着商业租赁业务以及其余的许多公司。
Just days before his inauguration in January, Mr. Trump announced plans to resign from hundreds of entities he controls and place his assets in a trust. The move drew sharp criticism from ethics lawyers, who said the move was window dressing because Mr. Trump, as sole beneficiary of the trust, still owns the assets, benefits financially from any money they might make and will quite likely get updates, Eric said, roughly every quarter on the financial health of the company.
于1月份就职前夕，特朗普宣布自己打算辞去在其控制的数百家实体中的职务，并将其资产交给一家信托基金。这一举措引发了道德律师的尖锐批评，他们说这只不过是装装样子，因为特朗普作为该信托基金的唯一受益人，仍然拥有这些资产，会从源于这些资产的收益中获得经济利益，而且据埃里克所说，他每个季度都会及时获得关于公司财务健康情况的最新信息。