NEW DELHI — At a college fair on Wednesday at the Le Méridien hotel here, 20 American universities made their pitches to aspiring students, many of whom had long hoped to study in the United States. But as the students checked out presentations from colleges ranging from the State University of New York at Binghamton to Abilene Christian University in Texas, several expressed concerns about going to America under a Donald J. Trump administration.
新德里——星期三，在艾美酒店(Le Méridien)举行的大学升学咨询会上，20所美国大学向有志学生做了宣传，其中很多人本来一直希望在美国学习。从宾汉姆顿纽约州立大学(State University of New York)到得克萨斯州阿比林基督教大学(Abilene Christian University)，就在学生们在观看这些学校的展示时，也有几个人对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)政府治下的美国表达了担忧。
“It’s the main topic of conversation among my friends,” said Palak Gera, 21, who is applying to graduate programs in pharmaceutical science in North Carolina, Illinois and North Dakota. “They don’t want to apply to the U.S. under Trump.”
“这是我的朋友之间的主要话题，”21岁的帕拉卡·格拉(Palak Gera)说，他正在申请北卡罗来纳州、伊利诺伊州和北达科他州的药剂学研究生课程。“他们不想申请特朗普治下的美国。”
Aman Kumar, 18, who is looking at universities in California, said, “In his campaign, he’s discriminating against Muslim and other brown and black people,” adding, “I’m thinking of applying to Canada.”
18岁的阿曼·库马尔(Aman Kumar)正在看加利福尼亚的大学，他说：“在竞选活动中，特朗普歧视穆斯林和其他棕色人种和黑人。”他补充道，“我在考虑申请加拿大的学校。”
This year, the number of international students in United States colleges surpassed one million for the first time, bringing more than $32 billion a year into the economy and infusions of money to financially struggling colleges.
今年，美国高校的国际学生数量首次超过了100万人，每年带来逾320亿美元的经济收入，为财政困难的大学注入资金。
College admissions officials in the United States caution that it is too early to draw firm conclusions about overseas applications, because deadlines for applications are generally in January and February. But they are worried that Mr. Trump’s election as president could portend a decline in international candidates.
美国大学的录取人员警告说，对海外申请状况做出确定的结论还为时过早，因为申请截止日期一般是在1月和2月。但他们担心，特朗普当选总统可能会导致国际申请者人数减少。
Canadian universities have already detected a postelection surge in interest from overseas.
在美国选举结束后，加拿大大学发现，外国学生对他们的兴趣出现了激增。
“We have seen an increase in applications from the U.S. and from international students in the last week,” Jocelyne Younan, the director of global undergraduate recruitment at McGill University in Montreal, wrote in an email. “We’ve also seen an increase in students inquiring about McGill on social media.”
“上周，申请我校的美国和国际学生数量有所增加。”蒙特利尔麦吉尔大学(McGill University)的全球本科招生主任乔斯林·尤南(Jocelyne Younan)在一封电邮中写道：“在社交媒体上咨询麦吉尔的学生人数也增加了。”
A disruption in the flow of international students could be particularly worrisome for universities who balance their books with income from international students, who generally pay higher tuition.
国际学生的减少可能会让某些大学尤其担心，因为国际学生支付的学费通常更高，这些学校要靠国际学生来保持收支平衡。
At Indiana State University, 1,000 of the 13,500 students are foreign, including many Saudis who transferred this year from Idaho State, and officials are concerned, said Santhana Naidu, an associate vice president for communications and marketing.
印第安纳州立大学(Indiana State University)共有1.35万名学生，其中1000名是国际生，包括很多今年从艾奥瓦州转学过来的沙特人，据该校的传讯和营销助理副校长沙萨纳·奈都(Santhana Naidu)说，学校管理者感到很担心。
“We have already received inquiries from prospective students who are in the applicant pool,” Mr. Naidu said. “They’re asking, ‘Is it safe for me to come there?’ and generally getting the lay of the land.” Mr. Naidu will be among officials meeting this week in Terre Haute at the university to determine what they can do to assuage fears.
“一些申请了我校的学生已经在询问了，”奈都说。“他们问，‘我过来安全吗’，以及总体状况如何。”奈都和其他一些管理者本周将在位于特雷霍特的该校举行会议，制定出缓解这些担忧的措施。
Scott Manning, the director of global programs at Susquehanna University, a liberal arts college in Selinsgrove, Pa., said he had heard before the election that two prospective students from China were waiting until after the vote to submit visa documents necessary to attend Susquehanna.
萨斯克汉那大学(Susquehanna University)是位于宾夕法尼亚州锡林斯格罗夫的一所文理学院，该校全球课程主任斯科特·曼宁(Scott Manning)说，他在选举前听说，两名来自中国的学生要等到大选结果出来之后，才提交前往萨斯克汉那大学必需的签证资料。
“They were kind of spooked about threats Trump made about the South China Sea, back and forth with Japan about some uninhabited islands, and trade issues in general,” Mr. Manning said. The students, who were considering an English-language program beginning in January as a precursor to fall enrollment, have still not submitted their documents, he said.
曼宁说：“特朗普对南海、对中日在一些无人居住的岛屿上的争端，以及一般贸易问题上发出的威胁，把他们吓到了。”他说，这些学生本来考虑从明年1月份开始上英语语言课程，为秋季入学做准备，但他们到现在还没有提交文件。
Officials at Ohio State University said it was too early to tell whether the election result would affect international applications, adding that there had been an increase so far this year, although most were received before Election Day.
俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State University)官员说，现在说选举结果是否会影响国际学生申请还为时尚早，今年到现在为止，申请信的数量有所增加，不过大多数是在选举日之前收到的。
International study has historically been affected by social forces. Attacks on Indian students in Australia in 2009 and 2010 were believed to be part of the reason for a sharp drop-off in applications from India.
留学活动向来都会受到社会力量的影响。2009年和2010年印度学生在澳大利亚遭到攻击的事件，被认为是印度申请者数量大幅下降的原因之一。
International education experts first raised concerns in May about the election of Mr. Trump, when a study was presented at a meeting of Nafsa: Association of International Educators indicating that a Trump presidency could dissuade international students from coming to the United States.
国际教育专家第一次提出关于特朗普选举的问题是在今年5月份，当时他们在国际教育工作者协会(Nafsa: Association of International Educators)汇报了一项研究，称特朗普成为总统可能会削弱国际学生来美国的热情。
The study, by Intead and FPP EDU Media, two companies specializing in international student recruitment for colleges, found that 60 percent of international prospective students would be less likely to attend a college in the United States if Mr. Trump were elected. “We were really surprised, if not shocked, by the results,” said Benjamin Waxman, the chief executive of Intead.
开展该研究的是两家专门为大学招收国际学生的公司Intead和FPP EDU Media，他们发现，如果特朗普当选，60%原本有意的国际学生可能会放弃到美国念大学。Intead的首席执行官本杰明·韦克斯曼(Benjamin Waxman)说，“对于这个结果，即使说不上震惊，也真的是非常令人惊讶。”
More recently, international education experts who have been on the ground in China and India — the two biggest feeder countries to United States colleges — also say they are seeing postelection jitters.
中国和印度是美国高校国际学生最大的两个来源国。近期，在这两个国家工作的国际教育专家也表示，他们看到了美国大选后的一些躁动。
Andrew Chen, the chief development officer at WholeRen, an international education consulting company in Pittsburgh, returned to the United States this week from China, where he said colleges in other countries were trying to capitalize on fears over Mr. Trump.
美国匹兹堡国际教育咨询公司WholeRen的首席发展官安德鲁·陈(Andrew Chen)本周从中国返回美国。他说，在中国，其他国家的大学试图利用特朗普引发的担忧，从中获益。
“Many organizations and programs are starting to use this to promote education in the U.K., Australia and Singapore,” Mr. Chen said. “These competitors paint the U.S. as not safe. Now, with Trump, they’re saying it’s going to be unfriendly.”
“很多组织和项目都在利用这件事来宣传英国、澳大利亚和新加坡的教育。”陈说：“这些竞争对手把美国描绘得很不安全。现在特朗普当选了，他们就说美国会变得不友好。”
But Mr. Chen said he believed the fears of international students were unfounded. “He doesn’t like refugees from the Middle East, and he said for all Muslims he wanted to do a background check,” Mr. Chen said. “And also people from Mexico. He doesn’t like those people.”
但陈说，他相信国际学生的恐惧是没有根据的。“特朗普不喜欢来自中东的难民，他想对所有穆斯林做背景调查，”陈说。“还有来自墨西哥的人。他不喜欢那些人”。
Mr. Chen added, “But I don’t think he ever said he doesn’t like international students who pay tuition to study in the U.S.”
陈说：“但我认为，他从来没有说过他不喜欢到美国学习的国际学生。”