WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday said he would take steps to separate himself from his vast, global business empire in the hopes of preventing the appearance of a conflict of interest as he becomes president.
华盛顿——候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)周三表示，他将采取措施从自己庞大的全球商业帝国脱身，以免在担任总统时出现利益冲突。
But Trump’s announcement, delivered in a series of early-morning posts on Twitter, drew an immediate rebuke from legal and ethics experts in Washington, who said that a close reading of the actual words in the posts suggests that Trump is not planning to take sufficient steps to eliminate the conflicts.
然而，特朗普周三清早在Twitter上发表多条推文做出的这个宣布，立即引起了华盛顿法律和伦理专家的指责，他们说，通过仔细阅读推文中的措辞，表明特朗普并不打算采取足够多的措施来杜绝这种冲突。
The president-elect provided few details, but promised to hold a “major news conference” with his adult children in two weeks to reveal legal documents that will remove him from what he called the “business operations” of his company. He vowed to leave the Trump Organization “in total” to focus on running the country from the White House.
特朗普几乎没有提供任何细节，但是承诺将在两周内与成年子女举行一个“大的新闻发布会”，在会上展示让他脱离公司“商业运营”的法律文件。他发誓要“完全”离开特朗普集团(Trump Organization)，全神贯注于在白宫管理国家事务上。
The emphasis on “business operations,” not on ownership, hinted that Trump is not ruling out retaining a financial stake in the Trump Organization or putting his children in control of the company. Ethics experts said such moves would leave Mr. Trump vulnerable to accusations that his official actions are motivated by personal financial interests.
但强调“商业运营”而不是所有权，暗示他可能会保留特朗普集团的财务权益，或者是让子女来管理公司。伦理专家说，如果这样做，别人就很容易指责特朗普的官方行为受到了个人经济利益的驱动。
“Although it is of course important that he have no involvement in Trump business operations, in order to avoid conflicts he must also exit the ownership of his businesses through using a blind trust or equivalent,” Norman Eisen, who served as a White House ethics lawyer in the Obama administration, and Richard Painter, an ethics lawyer in the Bush administration, said in a joint statement to The New York Times.
“虽然为了避免冲突，他不参与商业运作当然也很重要，但他还必须通过使用保密信托或类似方式放弃他的商业所有权，”曾任奥巴马政府白宫伦理问题律师的诺曼·艾森(Norman Eisen)与布什政府伦理律师理查德·弗特(Richard Painter)在《纽约时报》上发表联合声明说。
Noah Bookbinder, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics, a liberal nonprofit group that promotes ethics in government, said: “Unless his solution is to sell the business outside the family and put the proceeds in a blind trust, he’s not really doing anything to solve the problem. Just because you say something on Twitter doesn’t make it so.”
公民责任与道德(Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics)是一个促进政府伦理的自由派非营利组织，其执行总监诺阿·布克班德(Noah Bookbinder)说：“除非特朗普的解决方案是把生意出让给本家族以外的买家，把收益放在保密信托之下，其他方式都不能解决问题。仅凭你在Twitter上说了一些话，并不意味着事情就会这样。”
It remains unclear what the president-elect’s plan will look like, but simply removing Trump from operational, day-to-day control of business decisions still could allow him to benefit financially from payments made to his companies by foreign governments, which may be prohibited by the so-called emoluments clause of the Constitution, Eisen said.
目前还不清楚这位候任总统有什么计划，但仅仅让特朗普放弃经营性的日常业务决策控制权，他仍然可以从经济上受益于外国政府支付给他公司的钱，这可能是被宪法中的“报酬条款”所禁止的，艾森说。