Donald J. Trump proudly acknowledges he did not pay a dime in federal income taxes for years on end. He insists he merely exploited tax loopholes legally available to any billionaire — loopholes he says Hillary Clinton failed to close during her years in the United States Senate. “Why didn’t she ever try to change those laws so I couldn’t use them?” Mr. Trump asked during a campaign rally last month.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)自豪地承认自己连续多年未交纳联邦所得税。他坚称自己只是合法地利用了任何亿万富翁都可以利用的税收漏洞，并且是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在担任参议员的多年里未能堵上的那些漏洞。“她为什么不尝试改变那些法律，这样我就无法利用它们了？”特朗普在上月举行的一个竞选造势活动上问道。
But newly obtained documents show that in the early 1990s, as he scrambled to stave off financial ruin, Mr. Trump avoided reporting hundreds of millions of dollars in taxable income by using a tax avoidance maneuver so legally dubious his own lawyers advised him that the Internal Revenue Service would likely declare it improper if he were audited.
但新获得的文件显示，他在90年代早期手忙脚乱地减轻经济损失时，就通过利用一项避税策略来规避申报数亿美元的应税收入。该策略在合法性上非常可疑，以至于特朗普的律师告诉他，如果他接受审计，美国国家税务局(Internal Revenue Service，IRS)可能会宣布这种做法非法。
Thanks to this one maneuver — which was later outlawed by Congress — Mr. Trump potentially escaped paying tens of millions of dollars in federal personal income taxes. It is impossible to know for sure because Mr. Trump has declined to release his tax returns, or even a summary of his returns, breaking a practice followed by every Republican and Democratic presidential candidate for more than four decades.
凭借这项策略——后来被美国国会宣布为非法——特朗普漏交了数千万美元的联邦个人所得税。由于特朗普拒绝公布自己的纳税申报表，甚至是纳税申报表摘要，所以无法知道确切金额。他的这一举动打破了共和党和民主党总统候选人遵循了40多年的常规。
Tax experts who reviewed the newly obtained documents for The New York Times said Mr. Trump’s tax avoidance maneuver, conjured from ambiguous provisions of highly technical tax court rulings, clearly pushed the edge of the envelope of what tax laws permitted at the time. “Whatever loophole existed was not ‘exploited’ here, but stretched beyond any recognition,” said Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center who helped draft tax legislation in the early 1990s.
替《纽约时报》审查新获文件的税收专家表示，特朗普的避税策略是从技术性很强的法庭税务裁决所构成的模棱两可的条款中生造出来的，明显超出了当时的税收法允许的范围。“这里不是‘利用’已有的漏洞，而是滥用漏洞到面目全非的程度，”无党派机构——税收政策中心(Tax Policy Center)高级研究员、曾在90年代初参与起草税收法的史蒂文·M·罗森塔尔(Steven M. Rosenthal)说。
Moreover, the tax experts said the maneuver trampled a core tenet of American tax policy by conferring enormous tax benefits to Mr. Trump for losing vast amounts of other people’s money — in this case, money investors and banks had entrusted to him to build a casino empire in Atlantic City.
此外，税收专家称，该策略通过亏损他人的大量资金——在此事中，资金投资者和银行委托特朗普在大西洋城建造一个赌场帝国——来给特朗普带来巨大的税收利益，践踏了美国税收政策的核心原则。
As that empire floundered in the early 1990s, Mr. Trump pressured his financial backers to forgive hundreds of millions of dollars in debt he could not repay. While the cancellation of so much debt gave new life to Mr. Trump’s casinos, it created a potentially crippling problem with the Internal Revenue Service. In the eyes of the I.R.S., a dollar of canceled debt is the same as a dollar of taxable income. This meant Mr. Trump faced the painful prospect of having to report the hundreds of millions of dollars of canceled debt as if it were hundreds of millions of dollars of taxable income.
1990年代初，当这个帝国举步维艰的时候，特朗普迫使财务支持者们勾销了他无法偿还的数以亿计的债务。虽然取消了这么多债务给特朗普的赌场注入了新的生命，但也在国家税务局那里制造了一个棘手的潜在麻烦。从国税局的角度说，一美元的取消债务与一美元的应税收入是一回事。这意味着特朗普面临着一个痛苦的前景：必须像上报数亿美元的应税收入一样，上报数亿美元被取消的债务。
But Mr. Trump’s audacious tax-avoidance maneuver gave him a way to simply avoid reporting any of that canceled debt to the I.R.S. “He’s getting something for absolutely nothing,” John L. Buckley, who served as the chief of staff for Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation in 1993 and 1994, said in an interview.
但特朗普采取了大胆的避税策略——不向国税局上报被取消的债务。“他没有付出任何代价，就获得了一些东西，”曾在1993年和1994年国会税收联合委员会(Joint Committee on Taxation)担任负责人的约翰·L·巴克利(John L. Buckley)在采访中说。
The new documents, which include correspondence from Mr. Trump’s tax lawyers and bond offering disclosure statements, might also help explain how Mr. Trump reported a staggering loss of $916 million in his 1995 tax returns — portions of which were first published by The Times last month.
这批新的文件包括特朗普税务律师的通信以及债券发行公告声明，它们可能也有助于解释特朗普如何在1995年的报税表中填写了9.16亿美元的巨额损失——《纽约时报》在上月率先发布了其中部分内容。
United States tax laws allowed Mr. Trump to use that $916 million loss to cancel out an equivalent amount of taxable income. But tax experts have been debating how Mr. Trump could have legally declared a deduction of that magnitude at all. Among other things, they have noted that Mr. Trump’s huge casino losses should have been offset by the hundreds of millions of dollars in taxable income he surely must have reported to the I.R.S. in the form of canceled casino debt.
美国税法允许特朗普使用9.16亿美元的损失来抵消等值的应税收入。但对于特朗普如何能够合法宣布抵消这么大一笔数额，税务专家一直在进行争论。他们注意到的其中一个问题是，特朗普赌场的巨大损失应该和他数亿美元的应税收入相抵消，而这笔应税收入必须是以取消赌场债务的形式上报给了国税局。
By avoiding reporting his canceled casino debt in the first place, however, Mr. Trump’s $916 million deduction would not have been reduced by hundreds of millions of dollars. He could have preserved the deduction and used it instead to avoid paying income taxes he might otherwise have owed on books, TV shows or branding deals. Under the rules in effect in 1995, the $916 million loss could have been used to wipe out more than $50 million a year in taxable income for 18 years.
不过，通过避免上报赌场被勾销的债务，特朗普这9.16亿美元的减税额便不会被削减数亿。他可以把减免额度留下来，用来免除出书、电视节目或者品牌交易中的应缴税款。根据在1995年生效的法规，用这9.16亿美元损失可以在18年间每年抵消超过5000万美元的应税收入。
Mr. Trump declined to comment for this article.
特朗普拒绝就本报道置评。
“Your e-mail suggests either a fundamental misunderstanding or an intentional misreading of the law,” Hope Hicks, Mr. Trump’s spokeswoman, said in a statement. “Your thesis is a criticism, not just of Mr. Trump, but of all taxpayers who take the time and spend the money to try to comply with the dizzyingly complex and ambiguous tax laws without paying more tax than they owe. Mr. Trump does not think that taxpayers should file returns that resolve all doubt in favor of the I.R.S. And any tax experts that you have consulted are engaged in pure speculation. There is no news here.”
“你们发来的电子邮件显示，你们不是对法律存在根本的误解，就是在故意误读法律，”特朗普的女发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)在一份声明中表示。“你们的文章不只是在批评特朗普先生，还批评了所有不惜花费时间和金钱，只为做到既遵守令人眼花缭乱而又含混的税法，又不会缴纳不必要的税款的人。特朗普先生并不认为纳税人应该为了化解所有疑虑而进行有利于国税局的纳税申报。此外，你们咨询的所有税务专家都是在进行主观臆断。这里面没有新闻。”
It is unclear who first glimpsed a way for Mr. Trump to dodge a huge tax bill. But the basic maneuver he used was essentially a new twist on a contentious strategy corporations had been using for years to avoid taxes created by canceled debt.
目前尚不清楚是谁首先帮特朗普想到了避缴巨额税款的办法。但他采用的基本手法，实际上是曾被一些企业奉行多年、针对被勾销债务的争议性避税策略的新变种。
The strategy — known among tax practitioners as a “stock-for-debt swap” — relies on mathematical sleight of hand. Say a company can repay only $60 million of a $100 million bank loan. If the bank forgives the remaining $40 million, the company faces a large tax bill because it will have to report that canceled $40 million debt as taxable income.
这种策略——税务从业人员称之为“债转股”——靠的是数学上的花招。比方说，一家公司从银行借了1亿美元，但只还得上6000万美元。如果银行同意免除余下的4000万美元债务，这家公司就要缴纳一大笔税款，因为必须把被勾销的4000万美元债务当成应税收入上报。
Clever tax lawyers found a way around this inconvenience. The company would simply swap stock for the $40 million in debt it could not repay. This way, it would look as if the entire $100 million loan had been repaid, and presto: There would be no tax bill due for $40 million in canceled debt.
聪明的税务律师们找到了一个解决这种麻烦的办法。该公司只需把无法偿还的4000万美元转换成股份。这样一来，看上去1亿美元债务就全部得到了清偿，而且立马就不必为那4000万美元被勾销的债务纳税了。
Best of all, it did not matter if the actual market value of the stock was considerably less than the $40 million in canceled debt. (Stock in an effectively insolvent company could easily be next to worthless.) Even in the opaque, rarefied world of gaming impenetrable tax regulations, this particular maneuver was about as close as a company could get to waving a magic wand and making taxes disappear.
最棒的是，就算股票的实际市场价值远远抵不上4000万美元被勾销的债务也不打紧。（一家实际上处于破产状态的公司，其股票很容易就变得几乎一钱不值。）与密不透风的税务法规博弈是一个晦涩而缜密的行当，即便在这个前提下，这种独特的手段也显得颇为魔幻，一家公司挥舞一下魔杖，纳税义务就消失了。
Alarmed by the obvious potential for abuse, Congress and the I.R.S. made repeated efforts during the 1980s to curb this brand of tax wizardry before banning its use by corporations altogether in 1993. But while policy makers were busy trying to stop corporations from using this particular ploy, the endlessly creative club of elite tax advisers was inventing a new way to circumvent the ban, this time through the use of partnerships.
上述办法显然有可能被滥用，感到不安的国会和国税局曾在上世纪80年代多次采取措施遏制这种避税巫术，并于1993年全面禁止所有公司如此行事。不过，当政策制定者忙于阻止公司采用这一特殊策略的时候，创意无穷的精英税务顾问俱乐部正在研究避开禁令的方法，这次是借助合伙企业。
This was the twist that was especially beneficial to Mr. Trump. Wealthy families like the Trumps often own real estate and other assets through partnerships rather than corporations. Mr. Trump, for example, owned all three of his Atlantic City casinos through partnerships, an arrangement that allowed casino profits to flow directly to his personal tax returns when times were good.
这是一种对特朗普尤其有利的转变。特朗普夫妇之类的富有家庭常常通过合伙企业而非公司持有房地产以及其他资产。举个例子，特朗普在大西洋城共拥有三家赌场，全部通过合伙企业持有，年景好的时候，这种安排可以让他对赌场的盈利直接进行个人税务申报。
But what if times were bad? What if Mr. Trump’s casino partnerships could not repay hundreds of millions of dollars they owed to bondholders? And what if the bondholders were persuaded to forgive this debt? Wouldn’t that force the partnerships — i.e., Mr. Trump — to report hundreds of millions of dollars of taxable income in the form of canceled debt?
但如果年景不好呢？如果特朗普的赌场合伙企业无力偿还欠债券持有者的数亿美元债务呢？如果债券持有者经劝说同意免除这笔债务呢？这难道不会迫使合伙企业——也就是特朗普——去申报体现为被勾销债务的数亿美元应税收入吗？
Enter the tax advisers with their audacious plan: Why not eliminate all that taxable income from canceled debt by swapping “partnership equity” for debt in exactly the same way corporations had been swapping company stock for debt.
税务顾问带着他们的大胆方案现身了：何不通过把债务转化为“合伙企业股份”，让源自被勾销债务的所有应税收入消失不见，就像公司把债务转化为公司股份时一样？
True enough, the I.R.S. and Congress had clearly signaled their disapproval of the basic concept. Fred T. Goldberg, who was the I.R.S. commissioner under George Bush, recalled in an interview that the I.R.S. frowned on partnership equity-for-debt swaps for the same reason it objected to corporate stock-for-debt swaps. “The fiction is that the partnership interest has the same value as the debt,” he said. Lee A. Sheppard, a contributing editor to Tax Notes, wrote in 1991 that trying to find a legal justification for this tactic was akin to proving “the existence of the Loch Ness monster.”
国税局和国会的确已经明确表示不赞成这里涉及的基本概念。在乔治·布什(George Bush)政府中担任过国税局长的弗雷德·T·戈德堡(Fred T. Goldberg)接受采访时回忆，国税局讨厌合伙企业进行债转股的原因，跟讨厌公司进行债转股的原因一模一样。“其中的谎言是，合伙权益与债务等价，”他说。《税务笔记》(Tax Notes)的特约编辑李·A·谢泼德(Lee A. Sheppard)于1991年写道，为这种手段寻找法律上的正当理由，就如同试图证明“尼斯湖水怪的存在”。
Regardless of whether the I.R.S. objected, Mr. Trump’s tax avoidance in this case violated a central principle of American tax law, said Mr. Buckley, the former chief of staff for Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation who later served as chief tax counsel for Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee.
曾为国会税收联合委员会幕僚长，后来又在众议院筹款委员会(House Ways and Means Committee)担任过民主党首席税务顾问的巴克利表示，不论国税局反对与否，特朗普在这种情况下的避税之举都违反了美国税法的核心原则。
“He deducted somebody else’s losses,” Mr. Buckley said. By that Mr. Buckley means that only the bondholders who forgave Mr. Trump’s unpaid casino debts should have been allowed to use those losses to offset future income and reduce their taxes. That Mr. Trump used the same losses to reduce his taxes ultimately increases the tax burden on everyone else, Mr. Buckley explained. “He is double dipping big time.”
“他用别人的损失获得了减税，”巴克利说。这话的意思是，只有同意免除特朗普旗下赌场未清偿债务的那些债券持有者，才应该被允许用他们的损失来抵消未来的收入，少缴纳一部分税款。特朗普用同样一笔损失来抵消自己的应税收入，最终会让其他所有人的税务负担变重，巴克利解释道。“他这完全是双重揩油。”
In any event, Mr. Trump can no longer benefit from the same maneuver. Just as Congress acted in 1993 to ban stock-for-debt swaps by corporations, it acted in 2004 to ban equity-for-debt swaps by partnerships.
不管怎样，特朗普再也不能用同样的手法为自己谋取利益了。国会已经在2004年采取行动，禁止合伙企业进行债转股，就如同在1993年禁止公司进行债转股一样。
Among the members of Congress who voted to finally close the loophole: Senator Hillary Clinton of New York.
在当初投票支持终结这一漏洞的国会议员当中，就有纽约州参议员希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。