Donald Trump, the Republican presidential front-runner, said that if elected, he might halt purchases of oil from Saudi Arabia and other Arab allies unless they commit ground troops to the fight against the Islamic State or “substantially reimburse” the United States for combating the militant group, which threatens their stability.
共和党总统初选领跑者唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)说，他如果当选，可能会停止从沙特等阿拉伯盟友那里购买石油，除非他们出动地面部队与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)作战，或者对打击激进组织的美国进行“充分补偿”。这些激进组织对沙特等国的稳定性构成了威胁。
“If Saudi Arabia was without the cloak of American protection,” Trump said during a 100-minute interview on foreign policy, spread over two phone calls, “I don't think it would be around.”
“如果没有美国的庇护，我不觉得沙特阿拉伯还能守得住，”特朗普在两通电话中谈到了外交政策方面的问题，整个采访历时100分钟。
He also said he would be open to allowing Japan and South Korea to build their own nuclear arsenals rather than depend on the U.S. nuclear umbrella for their protection against North Korea. If the United States “keeps on its path, its current path of weakness, they're going to want to have that anyway, with or without me discussing it,” Trump said.
他还表示，对于是否允许日本和韩国建立自己的核武库来应对朝鲜的威胁，而不是依赖美国的保护，他抱有一种开放的心态。如果美国“继续走老路，表现得像现在这样软弱，他们就会希望拥有自己的核武库，不管我是否讨论这个问题，”特朗普说。
And he said he would be willing to withdraw U.S. forces from both Japan and South Korea if they did not substantially increase their contributions to the costs of housing and feeding those troops. “Not happily, but the answer is yes,” he said.
他说，如果日本和韩国不更多地负担美国驻军的食宿开支，他愿意从日韩撤出驻军。“也不是开开心心地撤出来，但是我会撤出，”他说。
Trump also said he would seek to renegotiate many fundamental treaties with U.S. allies, possibly including a 56-year-old security pact with Japan, which he described as one-sided.
特朗普还表示，对于美国和盟友之间的很多基本条约，他都会寻求重新谈判，其中可能包括一项与日本在56年前签订的安全条约，他认为那个条约不公平。
In Trump's worldview, the United States has become a diluted power, and the main mechanism by which he would re-establish its central role in the world is economic bargaining. He approached almost every current international conflict through the prism of a negotiation, even when he was imprecise about the strategic goals he sought. He again faulted the Obama administration's handling of the negotiations with Iran last year — “It would have been so much better if they had walked away a few times,” he said — but offered only one new idea about how he would change its content: Ban Iran's trade with North Korea.
在特朗普的世界观中，美国的势力已经不如以前，他要重新确立其在世界上的核心地位，主要手段就是经济谈判。他从谈判的眼光来审视当今世界的几乎每一个重大冲突，即便有时候他对自己寻求的战略目标并不能做出准确表述。他再次指责了奥巴马政府去年在与伊朗谈判时的处理方式——“如果美国从谈判桌上走开几次，情况本来会好得多，”他说——但是对于谈判的内容，他只谈到了一个新的关注点：禁止伊朗与朝鲜之间开展贸易。
Trump struck similar themes when he discussed the future of NATO, which he called “unfair, economically, to us,” and said he was open to an alternative organization focused on counterterrorism.
在谈到北约(NATO)的前景时，特朗普也采用了类似的思路。他表示，对于美国来说，北约“在经济上很不公平”，对于其他反恐组织，他会保持一种开放心态。
Trump's views, as he explained them, fit nowhere into the recent history of the Republican Party: He is not in the internationalist camp of President George H.W. Bush, nor does he favor George W. Bush's call to make it the United States' mission to spread democracy around the world. He agreed with a suggestion that his ideas might best be summed up as “America First.”
从特朗普自己的解释来看，他的主张与共和党这些年来的观念很不一致：他不属于乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W. Bush)的国际主义阵营，也不赞成乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)“美国的使命是把民主传播到世界各地”的呼吁。有人说他的观念可以概括成“美国优先”，他同意这个说法。
Trump explained his thoughts in concrete and easily digestible terms, but they appeared to reflect little consideration for potential consequences. Much the same way he treats political rivals and interviewers, he personalized how he would engage foreign nations, suggesting his approach would depend partly on “how friendly they've been toward us,” not just on national interests or alliances.
特朗普用明确且易于理解的语言解释了他的想法，但这些想法似乎反映出特朗普几乎没有考虑潜在后果。他在如何对待外国的问题上偏向个人化，称他的态度部分取决于“它们对我们的友好程度”，不仅仅是根据国际利益或盟友关系，这与他对待政治对手及采访者的态度基本一样。
At no point did he express any belief that U.S. forces deployed on military bases around the world were by themselves valuable to the United States, though Republican and Democratic administrations have for decades argued that they are essential to deterring military adventurism, protecting commerce and gathering intelligence.
对于美国在世界各地军事基地部署军队的做法，他从始至终都没有表现出任何的信心，尽管共和党和民主党政府数十年来一直辩称，这些军队是必不可少的，能够阻止军事冒险主义、保护贸易，收集情报。
Like Richard Nixon, Trump emphasized the importance of “unpredictability” for a U.S. president, arguing that the country's traditions of democracy and openness had made its actions too easy for adversaries and allies alike to foresee.
就像理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)一样，特朗普强调“不可预测性”对于美国总统的重要性，辩称美国民主、开放的传统使得对手和盟友太容易预料到美国的行动。
Until recently, Trump's foreign policy pronouncements have largely come through slogans: “Take the oil,” “Build a wall” and ban Muslim immigrants, at least temporarily. But as he has pulled closer to capturing the nomination, he has been called on to elaborate.
直到最近，特朗普的外交政策表态基本上都是通过口号做出的：“占领油田”、“筑墙”，禁止穆斯林移民入境，至少暂时禁止。但随着他距离获得提名又近了一些，他被要求详细说明相关政策。
Pressed about his call to “take the oil” controlled by the Islamic State in the Middle East, Trump acknowledged that this would require deploying ground troops, something he does not favor. “We should've taken it, and we would've had it,” he said, referring to the years in which the United States occupied Iraq. “Now we have to destroy the oil.”
对于他此前呼吁的“占领”伊斯兰国在中东控制的油田一事，特朗普承认这需要部署地面部队，而这是他不能同意的。“我们本应该占领它们，本来可以拥有它们，”他说，他指的是美国占领伊拉克期间。“如今，我们只能摧毁这些石油。”
He did not rule out spying on U.S. allies, including leaders like Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, whose cellphone was apparently a target of the National Security Agency. Obama said the United States would no longer target her phone but made no such commitments about the rest of Germany, or Europe.
他没有排除对美国盟友开展间谍活动的可能，其中包括德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)等领导人，默克尔的手机曾是美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)的监听目标。奥巴马表示，美国将不再监听她的手机，但没有对德国或欧洲的其他人员做出此类承诺。
“I'm not sure that I would want to be talking about that,” Trump said. “You understand what I mean by that.”
“我想不好要不要谈论这件事，”特朗普说。“你明白我在说什么。”