WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump has directed his administration to more aggressively enforce the nation’s immigration laws, unleashing the full force of the federal government to find, arrest and deport those in the country illegally, regardless of whether they have committed serious crimes.
华盛顿——美国总统唐纳德·特朗普指示他领导的联邦政府加大力度实施该国的移民法律，全力寻找、逮捕并驱逐非法留在该国的人，而不管他们是否犯下了严重的罪行。
Documents released Tuesday by the Department of Homeland Security revealed the broad scope of the president’s ambitions: to publicize crimes by immigrants; enlist local police officers as enforcers; strip immigrants of privacy rights; erect new detention facilities; discourage asylum seekers; and, ultimately, speed up deportations.
美国国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)周二公布的文件显示了这位总统的抱负之大：宣传移民犯下的罪行、将地方警察列为执法者、剥夺移民的隐私权、新建拘留设施、不鼓励寻求避难，最后还要加快将相关人员驱逐出境的速度。
The new enforcement policies put into practice the fearful speech that Trump offered on the campaign trail, vastly expanding the definition of “criminal aliens” and warning that such people in the country illegally “routinely victimize Americans,” disregard the “rule of law and pose a threat” to people in communities across the United States.
新的执法政策落实了特朗普在竞选期间发表的可怕言论，极大地扩大了“外来犯罪分子”的定义，并警告这类非法留在美国者“常规性地侵害美国民众”、无视“法治”并对全美各地各界民众“构成了威胁”。
Despite Trump’s talk, research shows lower levels of crime among immigrants than among native-born Americans.
尽管特朗普如是说，但研究表明，移民的犯罪率低于土生土长的美国人。
But taken together, the new policies are a rejection of the sometimes more restrained efforts by former Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush and their predecessors, who sought to balance protecting the nation’s borders with fiscal, logistical and humanitarian limits on the exercise of laws passed by Congress.
但总的来看，新政策抛弃了前总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)以及他们的前任有时候更加克制的行动：他们试图在保护美国边境，与对国会通过的法律的执行上进行财政、组织和人道主义限制之间保持平衡。
“The faithful execution of our immigration laws is best achieved by using all these statutory authorities to the greatest extent practicable,” John F. Kelly, the secretary of homeland security, wrote in one of two memorandums released Tuesday. “Accordingly, department personnel shall make full use of these authorities.”
“将所有这些法定权力发挥到可行的最大程度，是忠实执行我国移民法律的最佳方式，”国土安全部长约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)在周二公布的两份备忘录中的其中一份中写道。“因此，我部人员当充分利用这些权力。”
Advocates for immigrants warned Tuesday that the new border control and enforcement directives would create an atmosphere of fear that was likely to drive those in the country illegally deeper into the shadows.
移民权利倡导人士周二警告称，新的边境控制和执法指示会制造一种恐惧氛围，可能会促使非法留在美国的人藏得更加隐蔽。
Administration officials said some of the new policies — like one seeking to send unauthorized border crossers from Central America to Mexico while they await deportation hearings — could take months to implement and might be limited in scope.
联邦政府官员称，部分新政策——如在来自中美洲的非法越境者等候驱逐出境听证会期间将他们送去墨西哥的政策——可能要花数月时间执行，在范围上可能也有限。
For now, so-called Dreamers, who were brought to the United States as young children, will not be targeted unless they commit crimes.
目前，所谓的“梦想者”，即从小被带到美国的人不会成为目标，除非他们有犯罪行为。
Trump has not yet said where he will get the billions of dollars needed to pay for thousands of new border control agents, a network of detention facilities to detain people in the country illegally and a wall along the entire southern border with Mexico.
特朗普尚未表明从哪里弄到数十亿计的美元，用于招募成千上万名新的边境管理人员、修建一系列拘押设施用于关押非法留在美国的人并沿着与墨西哥接壤的整个南部边境修一堵墙。