Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, released a list of potential Supreme Court nominees on Wednesday as part of an effort to quell concerns that he would not select conservative jurists.
周三，稳获共和党总统提名的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)公布了一个最高法院潜在提名人选名单。有人担心特朗普不会选择保守派法官，这是他为平息这种担心而采取的一部分行动。
The unusual move comes as Mr. Trump is looking to unify the Republican Party behind him and win over critics who remain skeptical about his candidacy. While some Republicans who oppose Mr. Trump have considered supporting Hillary Clinton or sitting out the election, he has regularly reminded them that the future of the Supreme Court is at stake.
有如此不寻常举动的特朗普，此刻正在争取共和党的支持，并说服仍对他的候选人身份持怀疑态度的批评人士。尽管一些反对特朗普的共和党人考虑支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，或是选择不投票，但特朗普常常提醒他们，这件事关系到最高法院的未来。
After the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February, critics of Mr. Trump expressed concern about whether he had the judgment to fill vacancies on the court. He had joked about appointing his sister, Maryanne Trump Barry, a federal appeals court judge in Philadelphia, before suggesting that he would look for someone in the mold of Justice Scalia and later promising to furnish some prospective candidates.
大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)于二月去世后，批评特朗普的人对他是否有填补法院职位空缺所需的判断力表示了担忧。特朗普曾开玩笑说要任命自己的姐姐、费城联邦上诉法院的法官玛丽安·特朗普·巴里(Maryanne Trump Barry)，后来表示他会找一个斯卡利亚那样的人，之后又承诺提供一些潜在的候选人。
Mr. Trump said in a statement that his shortlist was “representative of the kind of constitutional principles I value and, as president, I plan to use this list as a guide to nominate our next United States Supreme Court justices.” The Trump campaign did not share how it settled on the names, but Mr. Trump has previously said that he was seeking guidance from conservative groups such as the Federalist Society and the Heritage Foundation.
特朗普在一份声明中表示，他的候选名单“代表着我看重的那种宪法原则，当上总统后，我计划以这份名单为指导，提名我们的美国最高法院大法官继任者”。特朗普的竞选团队未透露是如何敲定人选的，但特朗普之前说他正在寻求联邦党人协会(Federalist Society)和传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)等保守派团体的指导。
Mr. Trump’s selections consisted of six federal appeals court judges appointed by President George W. Bush and five state supreme court justices appointed by Republican governors. All are white, and eight of the 11 are men.
特朗普选中的人由乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统任命的六名联邦上诉法院法官，和共和党州长任命的五名州最高法院法官组成，均为白人。十一人中有八名男性。
According to a list released by the campaign, Trump’s potential nominees include Steven M. Colloton and Raymond W. Gruender, both of the 8th Circuit; Thomas M. Hardiman of the 3rd Circuit; William H. Pryor Jr. of the 11th Circuit; Diane Sykes of the 7th Circuit: and Raymond M. Kethledge of the 6th Circuit; and five state Supreme Court justices: Allison H. Eid of Colorado; Joan Larsen of Michigan; Thomas Lee of Utah; David Stras of Minnesota; and Don Willett of Texas. 
从其竞选团队公布的名单来看，特朗普的潜在提名人选包括第八巡回法院的史蒂文·M·科洛顿(Steven M. Colloton)和雷蒙德·W·格鲁恩迪尔(Raymond W. Gruender)、第三巡回法院的托马斯·M·哈迪曼(Thomas M. Hardiman)、第十一巡回法院的小威廉·H·普赖尔(William H. Pryor Jr.)、第七巡回法院的戴安娜·赛克斯(Diane Sykes)、第六巡回法院的雷蒙德·M·基斯利奇(Raymond M. Kethledge)和五名州最高法院法官：科罗拉多州的艾丽森·H·依德(Allison H. Eid)、密歇根州的琼·拉森(Joan Larsen)、犹他州的托马斯·李(Thomas Lee)、明尼苏达州的戴维·斯特拉斯(David Stras)的德克萨斯州的唐·威利特(Don Willett)。
The next president could end up having to fill several Supreme Court vacancies, including the one that has been left open by Scalia’s death. Trump has urged the Senate to delay voting on President Barack Obama’s nominee, Judge Merrick B. Garland.
下一任总统可能最终要填补多个最高法院空缺，包括斯卡利亚去世后空出的职位。特朗普呼吁参议院推迟对贝拉克·奥巴马总统提名的梅里克·B·加兰德(Merrick B. Garland)进行投票表决。