George Orwell’s classic book “1984,” about a dystopian future where critical thought is suppressed under a totalitarian regime, has seen a surge in sales this month, rising to the top of the Amazon best-seller list in the United States and leading its publisher to have tens of thousands of new copies printed.
乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)的经典著作《一九八四》(1984)讲述的是审辩思维在极权政权中遭到压制的反乌托邦未来。本月，该书的销量骤升，跃至美国亚马逊(Amazon)畅销书榜首，该书的出版公司因此加印了数万本。
Craig Burke, the publicity director at Penguin USA, said that the publisher had ordered 75,000 new copies of the book this week and that it was considering another reprint.
美国企鹅图书公司(Penguin)的宣传总监克雷格·伯克(Craig Burke)表示，本周该公司新印了7.5万册，正在考虑再次加印。
“We’ve seen a big bump in sales,” Mr. Burke said. He added that the rise “started over the weekend and hit hyperactive” on Tuesday and Wednesday morning. Since Friday, the book has reached a 9,500 percent increase in sales, he said.
“我们的销量出现了猛增，”伯克说。他还说，销量增长“始于上周末”，周二和周三上午“尤为活跃”。他说，从周五开始，该书的销量增长了9500%。
He said demand began to lift on Sunday, shortly after the interview Kellyanne Conway, an adviser to Donald J. Trump, gave on “Meet the Press.”
他说，在周日唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的顾问凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)在《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)节目上接受采访之后不久，需求量开始上升。
In defending a false claim by the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, that Mr. Trump had attracted the “largest audience ever to witness an inauguration,” Ms. Conway used a turn of phrase that struck some observers as similar to the dystopian world of “1984.”
康维在维护白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)的一个错误陈述时——斯派塞称，特朗普“就职典礼吸引的观众人数是史上最多的”——使用了一个在某些观察者看来与《一九八四》中的反乌托邦社会有些相似的措辞。
When asked on NBC’s “Meet the Press” why Mr. Spicer had said something that was provably false, Ms. Conway replied airily, “Don’t be so dramatic.”
在NBC的《会见媒体》上被问及斯派塞为什么要发表被证实虚假的陈述时，康维轻描淡写地回答说：“不要这么夸张。”
Mr. Spicer, she said, “gave alternative facts.”
她说，斯派塞“给出了另一种事实”。
In the novel, the term “newspeak” refers to language in which independent thought, or “unorthodox” political ideas, have been eliminated. “Doublethink” is defined as “reality control.”
在那部小说中，“新话”(newspeak)一词被用来指代一种消灭了独立思想或“非正统”政治观念的语言。“双重思想”(Doublethink)被定义为“现实控制”。
On social media and elsewhere on Sunday, the book’s readers made a connection between Ms. Conway’s comments and Orwell’s language, and the attention on the book “kind of took a life of its own,” Mr. Burke said.
周日，在社交媒体等平台上，这本书的读者把康维的评论与奥威尔的语言联系了起来。伯克说，对该书的关注“好像有了自己的生命”。
The dictionary publisher Merriam-Webster described the interview as “fraught with epistemological tension.” The dictionary also reported that searches for the word “fact” spiked after Ms. Conway’s comments, and then, as an apparent reminder, tweeted the dictionary’s definition.
出版词典的韦氏出版公司(Merriam-Webster)称，这次采访“充满认识论矛盾”。该字典还报告称，在康维发表评论之后，“事实”(fact)一词的搜索量骤升，然后它的定义被纷纷转发到了Twitter上，显然是作为一种提醒。
Even outside the United States, interest in “1984” has grown. So far this year, sales have risen by 20 percent in Britain and Australia compared to the same period a year ago, according to Jess Harrison, a London-based editor at Penguin Books. The novel is usually a best-seller, she said, and it sold 100,000 copies last year in English-speaking countries outside the United States and Canada. “But we’ve definitely seen an uplift” in sales, she added.
甚至在美国之外，人们对《一九八四》的兴趣也在增加。企鹅图书公司的伦敦主编杰西·哈里森(Jess Harrison)称，与去年同期相比，今年到目前为止，该书在英国和澳大利亚的销量也增长了20%。她说，这本小说一直很畅销，去年在美国和加拿大之外的英语国家销售了10万册。她还说，“不过我们当然也看到了销量的提升。”
Dystopian novels are “chiming with people,” Ms. Harrison said, adding that “The Man in The High Castle” by Philip Dick, an alternative history in which the Nazis defeated America to win World War II, is also selling well. A television series based on Mr. Dick’s novel is now in its second season at Amazon.
哈里森说，现在人们对反乌托邦小说“很着迷”，菲利普·迪克(Philip Dick)的《高堡奇人》(The Man in the High Castle)也卖得很好。该书讲述的是纳粹打败美国、赢得“二战”的虚构历史。根据这本小说改编的电视连续剧正在亚马逊上播放第二季。
Penguin also published Sinclair Lewis’s “It Can’t Happen Here,” about the rise of a demagogue, last Friday in Britain for the first time since 1935, “and we’re already on to our third printing.”
上周五，企鹅出版公司自1935年以来首次在英国出版辛克莱尔·刘易斯(Sinclair Lewis)的《不会发生在这里》(It Can’t Happen Here)，它讲述的是一名煽动家的崛起，“我们已经出到第三印了。”
On Wednesday, that book was also ranking among Amazon’s best sellers, as was Aldus Huxley’s “Brave New World,” another dystopian classic.
周三，这本书也登上了亚马逊的畅销书排行榜。一同入榜的还有另一本反乌托邦经典著作——阿尔都斯·赫胥黎(Aldous Huxley)的《美丽新世界》(Brave New World)。
Prof. Stefan Collini, a professor of intellectual history and an expert on Orwell at the University of Cambridge, said that readers see a natural parallel between the book and the way Mr. Trump and his staff have distorted facts.
剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)思想史教授、奥威尔专家斯特凡·科利尼(Stefan Collini)称，读者们在这本书和特朗普及其幕僚扭曲事实的手法之间看到了本质上的相似之处。
“Everyone remembers ‘1984’ as containing various parodies of official distortions,” he said.
“每个人都记得《一九八四》中有对官方扭曲事实的各种讽刺，”他说。
“That kind of unreality that is propagated as reality is what people feel reminded of, and that’s why they keep coming back.”
“它让人们想起了虚假被宣传成事实，这是他们不断重看这本书的原因。”