WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald Trump named two prominent Republican women to Cabinet posts on Wednesday, recruiting Betsy DeVos, a prominent Republican philanthropist and educational activist, as education secretary, and Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina as ambassador to the United Nations.
华盛顿——本周三，当选总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)任命两位著名的共和党女性为内阁成员：著名的共和党慈善家和教育活动家贝茜·德沃斯(Betsy DeVos)担任教育部长，南卡罗来纳州州长尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)担任驻联合国大使。
Moving swiftly to diversify his Cabinet, Trump was also nearing an announcement of Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who ran an outsider’s campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, as secretary of housing and urban development.
特朗普正在迅速推进内阁的多样化，他可能很快将宣布本·卡森(Ben Carson)担任住房和城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development)部长。卡森是退休的神经外科医生，曾以局外人身份争夺共和党总统提名。
DeVos and Haley would be the first women in Trump’s Cabinet, while Carson would be the first African-American. Haley is Indian-American and a rising star in Republican politics. But none of these choices suggest a president-elect who is reaching beyond reliably conservative circles for his major policymakers.
德沃斯和黑利将是特朗普内阁中的第一批女性，而卡森将是第一个非裔美国人。黑利是印度裔美国人，也是共和党政坛新星。但这些任命都没有表明，特朗普在选择重要决策者的时候，把眼光放到了可靠的保守派圈子之外。
A major Republican fundraiser from Michigan, DeVos, 58, is a passionate believer in school choice, a subject that she and Trump discussed last week when she met him at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey. She is a member by marriage of the DeVos family, the founders of Amway and one of the largest contributors to the Michigan Republican Party.
德沃斯现年58岁，来自密歇根州，是共和党的一位重要筹款人。她是教育选择权的坚定支持者，这也是上周她和特朗普在新泽西贝德明斯特的高尔夫俱乐部见面时讨论的一个话题。她通过婚姻成为了德沃斯家族的成员。该家族是安利(Amway)的创始人，也是密歇根共和党最大的捐赠者之一。
“The status quo in education is not acceptable,” DeVos said in a statement. “Together, we can work to make transformational change that ensures every student in America has the opportunity to fulfill his or her highest potential.”
“目前的教育现状是不可接受的，”德沃斯在一份声明中说。“我们可以携手推动教育变革，确保美国的每一个学生都有机会发挥自己的最大潜力。”
Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association, criticized the selection in a statement emailed to reporters, saying DeVos’ work over the years had “done more to undermine public education than support students.”
全国教育协会(National Education Association)会长莉莉·艾斯肯森·加西亚(Lily Eskelsen Garcia)向记者发送电邮声明，批评了这一人选。她称德沃斯这些年来的行动“对公众教育的破坏，多于为学生提供的帮助”。
“She has lobbied for failed schemes, like vouchers — which take away funding and local control from our public schools — to fund private schools at taxpayers’ expense,” Garcia said. “These schemes do nothing to help our most vulnerable students, while they ignore or exacerbate glaring opportunity gaps.”
加西亚说：“她游说失败的计划，比如学券制，该制度剥夺了公立学校的资金和地方对学校的控制权，罔顾纳税人的利益，为私立学校提供资金。这些计划无视或加剧了严重的机会差距，对最弱势的学生没有帮助。”
Until Wednesday, Trump’s appointments had consisted of five white men: Stephen K. Bannon as chief strategist in the White House, Reince Priebus as chief of staff, Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama as attorney general, Rep. Mike Pompeo of Kansas as director of the CIA, and Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser. He is rumored to be close to naming Gen. James N. Mattis as secretary of defense.
截至本周三，特朗普任命的官员中有五个白人男性：史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)任白宫首席策略师，雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)任幕僚长，阿拉巴马州参议员杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)任司法部长，堪萨斯州的迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)任中情局局长，迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)中将任国家安全顾问。还有传言说他将任命詹姆斯·N·马蒂斯(James N. Mattis)上将为国防部长。