GENEVA — The United Nations human rights chief said on Wednesday that President Trump’s repeated denunciations of some media outlets as “fake news” could amount to incitement to violence and had potentially dangerous consequences outside the United States.
日内瓦——联合国人权事务负责人周三说，特朗普总统多次谴责某些媒体为“假新闻”的说法，可能相当于煽动暴力，会在美国境外带来潜在的危险后果。
The rebuke by Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, the high commissioner for human rights, at a news conference in Geneva was an unusually forceful criticism of a head of state by a United Nations official.
上述指责是人权事务高级专员扎伊德·拉阿德·侯赛因(Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein)在日内瓦的一个记者会上做出的，这是联合国官员对一位国家元首异常强烈的批评。
Mr. al-Hussein was reacting to Mr. Trump’s recent comments at a rally in Phoenix during which he spoke of “crooked media deceptions” in reports of the violent clashes at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Va., that resulted in the death of a counterprotester.
侯赛因的批评针对的是特朗普最近在凤凰城一次集会上的讲话，特朗普在讲话中说，对弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔的白人民族主义集会上发生暴力冲突的报道中有“不诚实的媒体欺骗”。那次冲突导致一名反集会抗议者死亡。
In Phoenix, the president’s words also appeared to whip up audience hostility toward journalists.
总统在凤凰城的讲话似乎也激发了听众对记者的敌意。
“It’s really quite amazing when you think that freedom of the press, not only a cornerstone of the Constitution but very much something the United States defended over the years, is now itself under attack from the president himself,” Mr. al-Hussein said. “It’s a stunning turnaround.”
“新闻自由不但是美国宪法的基石，而且是美国多年来捍卫的权利，现在这种自由本身受到了总统本人的攻击，真是件非常惊人的事情，”侯赛因说。“这是一个令人震惊的转变。”
Asked for comment, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said in an emailed statement, “We believe in free press and think it is an important part of our democracy, but the press also has a big responsibility to the American people to be truthful. Their job is to report the news, not create it.
白宫新闻秘书莎拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)在回复请求置评的电子邮件中发表声明说：“我们相信新闻自由，认为这是我们民主制度的重要组成部分，但是，新闻界也对美国人民负有重大责任，新闻应该是真实的，新闻工作应该是报道新闻，而不是制造新闻。”
“Is it not ‘dangerous’ for the media,” she continued, “to create false narratives and overzealous attacks against the president that the American people chose to be their leader? The president is focused on growing our economy, creating jobs, securing our border and protecting Americans. Since those are also the priorities of most Americans, hopefully the media will make covering them theirs.”
“制造针对被美国人民选择为自己领导人的总统的虚假故事和过分攻击，难道对媒体不‘危险’吗？”她接着表示道，“总统关注的是我国的经济增长、创造就业机会、严密把守边界、保护美国人民。这些也是大多数美国人的优先事务，希望媒体能够把报道这些作为自己的优先事务。”
In an attempt to deflect criticism that he had stoked racial divisions by failing to unequivocally condemn the actions of neo-Nazis and white supremacists in Charlottesville as racist, Mr. Trump had accused the news media of giving a platform to hate groups.
批评者认为，特朗普没有毫不含糊地谴责夏洛特维尔集会上的新纳粹分子和白人至上主义者是种族主义者的做法，是在煽动种族分裂，为了转移批评，特朗普指责新闻媒体为仇恨组织提供平台。
He singled out by name The New York Times, CNN and The Washington Post.
他点名批评了《纽约时报》、美国有线新闻网CNN，以及《华盛顿邮报》。
Mr. al-Hussein said that the violence in Charlottesville was “an abomination.” The Nazi salutes, the display of swastikas and the anti-Semitic chants had no place in the United States or anywhere else, he said.
侯赛因说，夏洛茨维尔发生的暴力是“令人憎恶的事情”。他说，行纳粹礼、展示纳粹万字饰、呼喊反犹太口号的行为在美国没有容身之地，在其他任何地方也没有容身之地。
“To call these news organizations fake does tremendous damage,” Mr. al-Hussein added. “I believe it could amount to incitement. At an enormous rally, referring to journalists as very, very bad people — you don’t have to stretch the imagination to see then what could happen to journalists.”
“称这些新闻机构虚假是在制造巨大的破坏，”侯赛因补充说。“我认为这可能等同于煽动。在一个大规模集会上，把记者说成是非常、非常坏的人，你不必发挥想象力就能明白，以后记者身上可能会发生什么。”
Mr. Trump’s relationship with the news media has veered from lobbing labels like “dishonest” and “enemy of the people” at certain companies to agreeing to cordial sit-downs with those very outlets, like a wide-ranging interview with Times reporters in July.
特朗普与新闻媒体的关系起伏不定，他会从给某些机构贴上“不诚实”和“人民公敌”等标签，转为同意与同一机构坐下来友好交流，就像今年7月份接受时报记者话题广泛的采访那样。
He was criticized for retweeting a short video meme showing him wrestling and punching a figure whose head had been replaced by the logo of CNN, a network he has called “garbage journalism.”
他曾因在Twitter上转发一个短视频米姆(meme)而受到批评，视频中，他把头部贴着CNN标志的人摔到在地、并猛击对手，他曾称该新闻网是“垃圾新闻”。
But the president has shown a strong preference for programs on the Rupert Murdoch-owned Fox network, like Sean Hannity’s program and “Fox & Friends.”
不过，总统对于鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)拥有的福克斯有线电视网的一些节目独有情钟，比如肖恩·汉尼提(Sean Hannity)的节目和《福克斯与朋友们》(Fox＆Friends)。
Before the presidential election, Mr. al-Hussein had warned that Mr. Trump could be a danger to international stability, but on Wednesday, at a news conference to discuss Venezuela, the human rights chief focused mainly on more recent domestic events.
在美国总统大选之前，侯赛因曾警告说，特朗普可能对国际稳定构成威胁，但在周三的关于委内瑞拉问题的记者会上，这位人权事务主管主要关心的是美国国内最近发生的事情。
Mr. al-Hussein said the president’s demonization of the news media was “poisonous because it has consequences elsewhere.” If a journalist were to be harmed, he asked, “does the president not bear responsibility for this, for having fanned this?”
侯赛因说，总统妖魔化新闻媒体的做法是“恶毒的，因为这种做法会带来其他后果”，他问道，如果一个记者受到伤害的话，“总统难道对这种事情、对煽动这种事情没有责任吗？”
Countries that did not recognize the essential role of the news media could be inspired if journalists in the United States were attacked, he said. He noted that Cambodia’s government, for example, had withdrawn licenses from the news media and it had cited Mr. Trump as an inspiration for doing so.
他说，如果美国的记者遭受袭击的话，那些不承认新闻媒体有重要作用的国家可能会受到启发。他还提到柬埔寨的例子，柬埔寨政府已经取消了新闻媒体的许可证，并表示这样做是受到了特朗普的启发。
Mr. al-Hussein also condemned the president’s comments regarding Muslims, minorities and transgender people as “grossly irresponsible.”
侯赛因还谴责特朗普有关穆斯林、少数民族和跨性别者的言论“严重地不负责任”。
“It emboldens those who think similarly to sharpen their assaults on these communities,” he said.
“那些言论会让有类似想法的人胆子更大，让他们加强对这些社群的攻击，”他说。
The number of anti-Semitic attacks in the United States in the first three months of this year was 86 percent higher than in the period last year, he said, citing figures from the Anti-Defamation League.
他援引反诽谤联盟(Anti-Defamation League)的数据说，美国今年头三个月发生的反犹太袭击事件的数量比去年同期高出86%。
Mr. al-Hussein compared Mr. Trump with a bus driver “careening down a mountain path.” From a human rights perspective, he said, “it seems to be reckless driving.”
侯赛因把特朗普比作一名“在下山道上疾驶”的大巴司机。他说，从人权角度看来，“这好像是不计后果的行车方式。”