WASHINGTON — President Trump wrote off $100 million in business losses to reduce his federal taxes in 2005, according to forms made public on Tuesday night in a rare glimpse at documents that he has refused to disclose since becoming a candidate for the nation’s highest office.
华盛顿——根据周二晚上公布的若干报表，特朗普总统于2005年申报了一亿美元的商业损失，以减少自己应缴纳的联邦税款。这些报表来自若干难得一见的文件，自特朗普成为总统候选人以来，他便拒绝披露这些信息。
The forms showed that Mr. Trump paid $38 million in federal income taxes on reported income of $150 million, an effective tax rate of 25 percent, according to Rachel Maddow, who aired them on her MSNBC show. By claiming losses from previous years, Mr. Trump was able to save tens of millions of dollars in taxes that he otherwise might have owed.
根据雷切尔·玛多(Rachel Maddow)在她MSNBC电视台节目中的报道，这些表格证明，特朗普为申报的1.5亿美元收入支付了3800万美元的联邦所得税，有效税率为25％。通过申报前几年的亏损，特朗普能够省下数千万美元的税款，否则这笔钱可能需要上交政府。
The White House responded without even waiting for the show to air, issuing a statement that seemed to confirm the authenticity of the forms even as it defended Mr. Trump and assailed the network for publicizing them. “You know you are desperate for ratings when you are willing to violate the law to push a story about two pages of tax returns from over a decade ago,” the statement said.
白宫甚至没有等待节目播出就做出了回应。虽然其声明捍卫了特朗普，并抨击了电视台公布这些报表的做法，它似乎证实了这些表格的真实性。“你们很清楚，宁愿违背法律，也要拿十年前两页纸的纳税申报表做文章，真是太想提高收视率了，”声明说。
The White House added: “Before being elected president, Mr. Trump was one of the most successful businessmen in the world, with a responsibility to his company, his family and his employees to pay no more tax than legally required.” In addition to the federal income taxes, the statement said, he paid “tens of millions of dollars in other taxes, such as sales and excise taxes and employment taxes, and this illegally published return proves just that.”
白宫还表示：“在成为候任总统之前，特朗普是世界上最成功的商人之一，对他的公司、家人和雇员负有责任，不应支付超过法律要求的税款。”除了联邦所得税，声明说，他还支付了“数以千万美元计的其他税款，如销售税、消费税和就业税，这个非法公布的申报表证明了这一点。”
The tax forms were sent to David Cay Johnston, a former New York Times reporter who covered the Internal Revenue Service for years and has written a book on Mr. Trump. Appearing with Ms. Maddow, he said he had received the forms “over the transom” and did not know who had sent them. He suggested that they might even have been sent by Mr. Trump himself.
这份税务报表被交给前《纽约时报》记者戴维·凯·约翰斯顿(David Cay Johnston)，他曾多年报道国家税务局新闻，并写过一本关于特朗普的书。他与玛多同时在节目中出现时，说自己是通过“气窗”收到了这份表格，不知道是谁送来的。他认为它们甚至有可能是由特朗普本人送来的。
Mr. Trump’s refusal to make his tax returns public broke with decades of tradition in presidential contests and emerged as a central issue in the campaign. That drumbeat has continued since he entered the White House, particularly from people who feel his returns may shed light on various aspects of his business practices, including whether he has done business with Russian firms and banks.
特朗普拒绝公布自己的纳税申报表，这违背了总统竞选中几十年来的传统，并在竞选活动中成为一个中心问题。自从他进入白宫以来，喧嚣还在持续，尤其是有人认为，他的纳税申报表可以揭示他商业活动的各个方面，包括他是否曾与俄罗斯公司和银行做生意。
Mr. Trump initially promised he would release the returns: “I have very big returns, as you know, and I have everything all approved and very beautiful, and we’ll be working that over in the next period of time,” he said in a January 2016 television interview. He then backpedaled, saying he would wait until the Internal Revenue Service had completed its audit. In May 2016, his lawyers released a letter saying that his personal tax returns had been “under continuous examination” by the I.R.S. since 2002, and that the examinations for the returns from 2009 on were continuing.
特朗普最初承诺他会公布报表：“我有庞大的报表，你知道，我的一切都得到了批准，都很好，我们将在未来一段时间内处理它，”2016年1月接受电视采访时他说。然后他变卦了，说他会等到国税局完成审计后才公布。2016年5月，他的律师发出了一封信说，自2002年以来，他的个人税务申报表已经经过国税局的“不断审查”，针对2009年以来的纳税申报表的审查仍在继续。
The I.R.S. has not confirmed that Mr. Trump’s taxes are in fact under audit.
国税局没有证实特朗普的税务实际上是在接受审计。
Democrats immediately pounced on Tuesday night’s report, arguing that the White House’s decision to release details of Mr. Trump’s 2005 taxes before Ms. Maddow’s show undercut his past refusal to release any such information.
周二晚的新闻报道之后，民主党人立刻展开攻击，辩称白宫在玛多的节目之前公布特朗普2005年税收细节的做法，有违其一贯拒绝公布任何此类信息的立场。
“If they can release some of the information, they can release all of the information,” Zac Petkanas, a senior adviser to the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement. “The only reason not to release his returns is to hide what’s in them, such as financial connections with Russian oligarchs and the Kremlin.”
“如果他们能够发布一些信息，他们就可以发布所有信息，”民主党全国委员会高级顾问扎克·佩特卡纳斯(Zac Petkanas)在一份声明中说：“不公布他的纳税申报表，唯一原因就是其内容需要隐藏起来，例如与他同俄罗斯寡头与克里姆林宫的财务关系。”
In October, The New York Times published three pages of Mr. Trump’s 1995 returns, which showed a $916 million tax deduction that could have allowed him to legally avoid paying any federal income taxes for up to 18 years.
去年10月，《纽约时报》刊登了三页特朗普1995年的纳税申报表，其中显示了9.16亿美元的减税额，令他可以在最多18年的时间里合法地避免支付任何联邦所得税。
This deduction was derived from the financial wreckage of some of the companies he drove into bankruptcy years ago, including his Atlantic City casinos, and would have allowed him to cancel out taxable income for an 18-year period. A tax code provision benefiting real estate developers, which took effect in 1993, permitted businesses like Mr. Trump’s to take tax deductions for losing other people’s money.
这一减税额允许他在18年内抵消应税收入，它源自若干他在几年前经营并导致其破产的公司，包括他的大西洋城赌场。一项于1993年生效，有利于房地产开发商的税务法案规定允许像特朗普这样的企业因为损失其他人的金钱而获得减税额。