WASHINGTON — Donald J. Trump on Wednesday named Peter J. Navarro, to lead a new White House office that will oversee American trade and industrial policy.
华盛顿——周三，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)任命彼得·J·纳瓦罗(Peter J. Navarro)领导一个新的白宫机构，主管美国贸易和工业政策。
Mr. Trump also said that the billionaire investor Carl Icahn would serve as a special adviser on regulatory issues, another area in which Mr. Trump plans major changes.
特朗普还表示，亿万富翁投资者卡尔·伊坎(Carl Icahn)将担任监管方面的特别顾问，这是特朗普打算进行重大变革的另一个领域。
The appointments reflect Mr. Trump’s ambitions to increase the growth of the American economy by hammering at what he regards as critical roadblocks. He has promised to support American manufacturing by sharply reducing federal regulations and by preventing what he has described as unfair competition from Chinese manufacturers. The choices of Mr. Navarro and Mr. Icahn also show that Mr. Trump will press forward with his agenda, regardless of the criticism almost certain to come.
这些任命，反映出特朗普想要通过清除自己眼中的关键障碍，来推动美国经济增长的雄心。他曾经承诺要大幅减少联邦监管法规，防止其所谓的来自中国制造商的不公平竞争，以此为美国制造业提供助力。纳瓦罗和伊坎的任命也表明，特朗普将会推进他的议程，即便这么做几乎肯定会招致批评。
Mr. Navarro, the only credentialed economist among Mr. Trump’s economic advisers, helped to shape Mr. Trump’s concerns about China through a series of jeremiads.
特朗普的经济顾问中唯一有资历的经济学家就是纳瓦罗，他借助一系列哀诉影响了特朗普对中国的关注。
Mr. Icahn, a brash New York billionaire who vocally supported Mr. Trump during the campaign, made his fortune as a “corporate raider,” buying large stakes in corporations and demanding changes intended to increase profits for shareholders. Mr. Trump said Wednesday that Mr. Icahn, one of the nation’s largest private investors, would also play a role in the selection of a new chairman for the Securities and Exchange Commission, which oversees his activities.
伊坎是一位傲慢的纽约亿万富翁，在竞选期间声援过特朗普。此人发家致富的方式是“掠夺公司”，即收购一些公司的大量股份，要求公司进行改革，提高股东的利润。伊坎是全国最大的私人投资者之一，特朗普周三说，他将参与为证监会选择新主席的工作，而他的商业活动正是由证监会来负责监督的。
“Carl was with me from the beginning, and with his being one of the world’s great businessmen, that was something I truly appreciated,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. “His help on the strangling regulations that our country is faced with will be invaluable.”
“卡尔从一开始就支持我，他是世界上最了不起的商人之一，我真的很欣赏他这一点，”特朗普在一份声明中说。“我们国家的监管法规卡得太严，他在这方面提供的帮助将是无价的。”
The appointments reinforce a basic division among Mr. Trump’s economic advisers. The people he has chosen to oversee trade policy, Mr. Navarro and Wilbur Ross, another billionaire investor, both favor increased trade restrictions. But Mr. Trump’s broader circle of advisers is dominated by proponents of free trade, including Mr. Icahn; Gary D. Cohn, who will lead the National Economic Council; Rex W. Tillerson, tapped for secretary of state; and Terry Branstad, Mr. Trump’s choice for ambassador to China. Mr. Trump is also considering the appointment of Larry Kudlow, a strong proponent of trade, to lead his Council of Economic Advisers.
这些任命突显了特朗普经济顾问之间的基本分歧。他挑选纳瓦罗以及另一名亿万富翁投资者威尔伯·罗斯(Wilbur Ross)来主持贸易政策，他们都赞成增加贸易限制。但特朗普更广泛的顾问团队则由支持自由贸易的人主导，其中包括伊坎，即将领导国家经济委员会(National Economic Council)的加里·D·科恩(Gary D. Cohn)，他提名的国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)，驻华大使特里·布兰斯塔德(Terry Branstad)。而且特朗普正在考虑让拉里·库德洛(Larry Kudlow)领导经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)，他也是一个坚定的贸易支持者。
They also open Mr. Trump to additional criticism that the wealth and the business backgrounds of his appointees further open the administration to conflicts of interest.
这些任命也令特朗普遭受了更多的批评，因为这些人的财富和商业背景让他的政府陷入了更大的利益冲突。
Mr. Icahn will “be in charge of overseeing regulatory overhauls while simultaneously controlling or owning stock in companies that could benefit from the changes he makes,” said Eric Walker, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee. “It looks like Trump isn’t the only billionaire set to profit off of the presidency.”
伊坎将“负责主持监管法规的修订，同时控制可以从他进行的改变中获利的公司，或是持有它们的股票，”民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)发言人埃里克·沃克(Eric Walker)说。“看上去特朗普不是唯一一个可以在他担任总统期间赚到钱的亿万富翁。”