There are quite a few Wall Street deal makers who, several times a year, make the trek to Washington, where they find ways to inject their ideas into the public policy discourse. Steve Mnuchin is not one of them.
华尔街不少交易人士每年都会不辞劳苦地去几趟华盛顿，在那里想法设法把自己的看法注入公共政策话语中。但史蒂夫·努钦(Steve Mnuchin)不在此之列。
Mr. Mnuchin, Donald J. Trump’s nominee to be Treasury secretary, doesn’t serve on the boards of any policy-oriented institutions, and there is no evidence he has ever appeared on a panel at the Brookings Institution, the American Enterprise Institute or any of the other places in Washington where people debate economic policy.
被唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)提名为财政部长的努钦不是任何一家政策机构的委员，也没有证据显示他坐镇过布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)、美国企业研究所（American Enterprise Institute，简称AEI）或华盛顿其他任何经济政策讨论机构的专家组。
“I had never heard of him,” said Stan Veuger, an economic policy expert at A.E.I., an often-heard comment from Washington policy people since Mr. Mnuchin emerged as a candidate to run the Treasury Department.
“我从来没听说过他，”AEI的经济政策专家斯坦·韦乌格(Stan Veuger)说。自努钦成为财政部掌舵人选以来，这是华盛顿政策人士经常发出的一句评论。
There’s nothing wrong with that, of course, and speaking on panels at the Brookings Institution is neither a prerequisite for high government office nor a guarantee that a person will be any good at it. Mr. Mnuchin is, from the accounts of those who have worked with him, smart, capable and pragmatic.
这种情况当然无可厚非，布鲁金斯学会专家组成员的背景既不是担任政府高职的前提条件，也不是此人会在相关岗位上表现优异的保证。根据与其共过事的人的说法，努钦聪明、能干、务实。
But his appointment is part of a recurring theme as Mr. Trump has assembled his cabinet. Most of his appointees have little in the way of directly relevant policy experience. Mr. Trump, who has never worked in government at any level, has also named a chief of staff (Reince Priebus) and chief White House strategist (Stephen K. Bannon) of whom the same can be said.
但他的任命只是特朗普在组建自己的内阁时反复出现的一个主题的一部分。在直接相关的政策经验方面，特朗普任命的大部分人几乎都是空白。从未在任何级别的政府担任职务的他提名的幕僚长（雷恩斯·普利巴斯[Reince Priebus]）和白宫首席策略师（史蒂芬·K·班农[Stephen K. Bannon]），都和其情况相同。
In a more normal administration, a person like Mr. Mnuchin would be lined up for a cushy ambassadorship in a pleasant city like Paris or London instead of serving as the nation’s chief economic statesman.
在更符合常态的政府，像努钦这样的人会受邀在巴黎或伦敦等舒适的城市担任大使这一轻松愉快的职位，而不是出任一国负责经济事务的最高官员。
There are exceptions to this, with nominations of conventionally qualified candidates like Representative Tom Price to lead health and human services and the former labor secretary Elaine Chao to run the Transportation Department.
也有例外，如提名众议员汤姆·普赖斯(Tom Price)领导卫生和公众服务部，提名前劳工部长赵小兰(Elaine Chao)担任交通部长。这些人选按照常规来看是有资格的。
But with his appointments so far — to the list add the commerce secretary nominee Wilbur Ross and the education secretary nominee Betsy DeVos — Mr. Trump seems to be betting that nuts-and-bolts experience running government agencies and wrestling with the hard technical details of public policy just don’t matter.
但从目前的任命情况——名单上还有商务部长提名人选威尔伯·罗斯(Wilbur Ross)和教育部长提名人选贝茜·德沃斯(Betsy DeVos)——来看，特朗普似乎打赌认为，管理政府机构和应对公共政策的技术细节难题的具体经验根本不重要。
Certainly outsiders can shake up a sclerotic bureaucracy and bring fresh perspective. Whatever you think of Mr. Ross’s views on trade, they are strongly held and informed by years of involvement with global business, and will surely steer the Commerce Department in a new direction.
当然，外来者可能会动摇僵硬的官僚体制，带来新的视角。不管你对罗斯的贸易观点怎么看，它们都坚定不移，源自其多年的全球商业经验，并且肯定会带领商务部走向新的方向。
But usually you expect an appointee in that outsider mold to then appoint a deputy who “knows the building,” or has a clear understanding of how to exercise the levers of power in the aforementioned sclerotic bureaucracy. Which paper do you need to push in which direction to get your policy enacted? What are the likely downsides of those policies, and how can they be minimized?
但通常，人们以为，在出现外来者类型的被任命者之后，会有一个“了解情况”或清楚地知道如何在前面提到的僵硬官僚体制中运用权力杠杆的副手。要在哪个方向推动哪项文件，才能让自己的政策获得通过？那些政策可能带来哪些弊端，如何能将它们的影响降到最低？
With the Commerce Department, the Trump team is going in the other direction, nominating Todd Ricketts to be deputy secretary of commerce. Mr. Ricketts’s family owns the Chicago Cubs; the Trump transition’s news release announcing the appointment cites the Ricketts’ success in building the Cubs into a World Series winner.
但在商务部，特朗普团队正在反其道行之，提名托德·里基茨(Todd Ricketts)担任商务部副部长。里基茨的家族是芝加哥小熊队(Chicago Cubs)的所有者。特朗普过渡团队发布的新闻稿在宣布这一任命时，援引了里基茨家族在将芝加哥小熊队打造成世界大赛(World Series)冠军上的成功。
Public policy is really complicated. If this hiring pattern continues, more unconventional appointees may struggle, especially early on, to get up to speed on things like which assistant secretary handles what and the laborious process of developing regulations.
公共政策真的很复杂。如果继续使用这种用人模式，更不符传统的被任命者尤其可能从一开始就难以全面了解一些问题的详细情况，如哪个助理部长负责哪些事务，以及制定规则的艰难过程。
More broadly, it’s now clearer what Mr. Trump meant by his “drain the swamp” promises during the campaign. Corporate interests are loving most of what they hear from the incoming administration. Corporate taxes are likely to be cut and regulations loosened. These are shaping up to be boom times for lobbyists.
在更广泛的层面，特朗普竞选期间“抽干沼泽”的承诺的含义现在比较清楚了。企业利益集团喜欢他们从新一届政府听到的大部分消息。政府可能会削减企业税，放松监管。这段时间正在成为说客的繁荣时期。
The swamp that is being drained is the one inhabited by wonkish technocrats who have devoted their careers to the details of policy-making. If nothing else, the years ahead will be a fascinating experiment in how much policy expertise actually matters to effective governing.
正在被抽干的，是精通政策细节的技术官僚所栖息的那片沼泽。他们把一生都奉献给了政策制定的枝节。不说其他，至少未来几年将是一个吸引人的实验过程，它将验证政策专业知识对有效的政府运作究竟有多重要。