Women as Trusted Colleagues 
特朗普在生意中信任的女人
To build his business, Trump turned to women for a simple reason: They worked hard — often harder than men, he told them. 
特朗普让女人帮忙打理生意的原因很简单：她们工作努力——他曾对她们说，她们往往比男人更努力。
When Trump hired Res to oversee the construction of Trump Tower, he invited her to his apartment on Fifth Avenue and explained that he wanted her to be his “Donna Trump” on the project, she said. Few women had reached such stature in the industry.” 
为了聘请雷斯(Res)监管特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的建设，特朗普请她到第五大道他的公寓里。雷斯回忆说，他想让她担任这个项目的“唐娜·特朗普”(Donna Trump)。在行业历史上，很少有女人做到这样的高位。
“He said: ‘I know you’re a woman in a man’s world. And while men tend to be better than women, a good woman is better than 10 good men,'” Res said. “He thought he was really complimenting me.” 
“他说：‘我知道，你是一个在男人的世界里打拼的女人。虽然男人通常比女人优秀，但一个优秀女人强过十个优秀男人，’”雷斯说，“他觉得这样说是真心夸我。”
Trump entrusted several women in his company with enormous responsibility — once they had proven themselves worthy and loyal. Sunshine had little experience in real estate, but as a top campaign fundraiser for then-Gov. Hugh Carey of New York, she had fulfilled a lifelong wish for Trump: She secured him a vanity license plate with his initials, DJT, which adorned his limousine for years. 
特朗普在自己的公司里赋予了几个女人重大职责——前提是她们已经证明自己优秀且忠诚。森夏恩(Sunshine)本来在房地产业几乎没有任何经验，但是作为时任纽约州长休·凯里(Hugh Carey)的首要竞选筹款人，她帮助特朗普达成了一项夙愿：她帮他搞到了一个以特朗普名字首字母DJT命名的车牌——这个车牌在他的豪华轿车上挂了好多年。
Sunshine worked for Trump for 15 years, becoming a major New York real estate figure in her own right. Res remained at the company for 12 years, left after a disagreement over a project and then returned as a consultant for six more years. Both expressed gratitude for the chances Trump had taken on them. 
森夏恩为特朗普工作了15年，凭借自己的能力成为纽约房地产业的一个重要人物。雷斯在这家公司工作了12年，后因项目分歧离职，后来又回到公司做了6年顾问。这两个女人都为特朗普给予的机会表示感激。
In a rough-and-tumble industry thoroughly dominated by men, Trump’s office stood out for its diversity, recalled Alan Lapidus, an influential architect who designed the Trump Plaza casino in Atlantic City.” 
有影响力的建筑师艾伦·拉皮德斯(Alan Lapidus)回忆说，在这个完全由男人主导的混乱而激烈行业里，特朗普公司的性别多样性很少见。拉皮德斯设计了大西洋城的特朗普广场(Trump Plaza)赌场。
“He is a lot more complicated than the cartoon character. The top people in his company were women, like Barbara Res,” Lapidus said. “For any company to hire a woman as chief of construction was actually startling. I don’t know of a single other developer who had a woman in that position. The respect for women was always there. That’s why, in spite of the comments he makes now — and God knows why he says these things — when he was building his empire, the backbone was women.” 
“他的性格比卡通人物要复杂得多。他公司的高管中有很多女性，比如芭芭拉·雷斯(Barbara Res)，”拉皮德斯说，“对任何一个公司来说，聘请女性担任建设主管都让人吃惊。我所知道的其他房地产公司里，没有一家是由女性担任那个职位。这家公司对女性的尊敬由来已久。所以，尽管他现在发表了一些不尊重女性的言论——天晓得他为什么要那样说——但他在构建自己的帝国时，主要靠的是女性。”
Wife and Partner, and Regret 
让妻子兼生意伙伴令他后悔
No single figure better encapsulated the paradoxes of Trump’s treatment of women in the workplace than his first wife, Ivana. 
特朗普在工作场合对女性的矛盾态度集中体现在第一任妻子伊万娜(Ivana)身上。
He entrusted her with major pieces of a corporate empire and gave her the titles to match. She was the president of Trump’s Castle, a major casino in Atlantic City, and the Plaza Hotel, the storied complex on Central Park South in Manhattan. “She ran that hotel,” Res said. “And she ran it well.” 
他把集团的一些主要业务交给她打理，也赋予她相应的头衔。她是大西洋城主要赌场特朗普城堡(Trump’s Castle)以及曼哈顿中央公园南部著名综合建筑广场酒店(Plaza Hotel)的总裁。“她经营那家酒店，”雷斯说，“而且经营得很好。”
But he compensated her as a spouse, not a high-level employee, paying her an annual salary of $1 for the Trump’s Castle job, according to her tax documents. And he grew to resent her outsize role. By the end of their marriage, Trump wrote in his 1997 book, “The Art of the Comeback,” he regretted having allowed her to run his businesses. 
但他是把她当作配偶而非高级职员来给予报酬的。据她的缴税记录，特朗普为她在特朗普城堡的工作每年支付1美元薪水。后来，他慢慢开始怨恨给予妻子的职责过大。特朗普在1997年的书《东山再起——投资界的不死鸟》(The Art of the Comeback)中写道，他们的婚姻快结束时，他后悔曾允许她打理生意。
“My big mistake with Ivana was taking her out of the role of wife and allowing her to run one of my casinos in Atlantic City, then the Plaza Hotel,” Trump wrote. “The problem was, work was all she wanted to talk about. When I got home at night, rather than talking about the softer subjects of life, she wanted to tell me how well the Plaza was doing, or what a great day the casino had. 
“对于伊万娜，我的重大失误在于让她脱离妻子的角色，允许她经营我在大西洋城的一个赌场，后来又让她经营广场饭店，”特朗普写道，“问题是，她变得只想谈论工作。我晚上回家后，她不是谈论生活中更温和的话题，而是想告诉我广场饭店经营得多么好，或者赌场当天的生意多么好。”
“I will never again give a wife responsibility within my business.” 
“我再也不会让妻子搀和我的生意了。”
He seems to have kept his word. His current wife, Melania, has marketed her own lines of beauty products and jewelry. But Trump remains mostly uninvolved in her work. After calling it “very successful,” he struggled to describe it. “What is it, on television with the sales?” he asked. 
他似乎的确是这样做的。他的现任妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)开始推广自己的美容产品和珠宝系列。但特朗普依然不大参与她的生意。他说她的生意“非常成功”，之后才费力思考该怎么描述她的生意——“怎么说呢，电视营销？”他问道。
Accusations and Denials 
指控与否认
Once his first marriage started to collapse, Trump faced his most serious allegations of aggression toward women. 
特朗普的第一场婚姻刚开始崩溃时，他面临着最严重的关于侵犯女性的指控。
When “Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump,” by journalist Harry Hurt III was released in 1993, it included a description of a night in which Trump was said to have raped Ivana in a fit of rage. It also included a statement from Ivana that Trump’s lawyers insisted be placed in the front of the book. In the statement, she described an occasion of “marital relations” during which “I felt violated, as the love and tenderness, which he normally exhibited toward me, was absent.” 
在记者哈里·赫特三世(Harry Hurt III)1993年出版的《堕落的大亨：唐纳德·J·特朗普的多面人生》(Lost Tycoon: The Many Lives of Donald J. Trump)一书中，有这样一段描述：据说，有一天晚上，特朗普在盛怒之下强奸了伊万娜。书中还包括伊万娜的一项声明——特朗普的律师们坚持要求把这段声明放在书的正文前。在那段声明中，她说那是“婚姻关系”中的一个事件，当时“我感觉遭到侵犯，因为他没像往常那样，对我表现出爱和温柔”。
“During a deposition given by me in connection with my matrimonial case, I stated that my husband had raped me,” the statement said. “I referred to this as a ‘rape,’ but I do not want my words to be interpreted in a literal or criminal sense.” 
“在离婚诉讼中我的证词里，我声称丈夫强奸了我，”那段声明说，“我用的是‘强奸’这个词，但我希望人们不要从字面意义或刑事意义上理解我的话。”
Trump denied raping Ivana, and she did not respond to a request for comment. After the allegation re-emerged in the news media last year, Ivana said in a statement, “The story is totally without merit.” 
特朗普否认强奸伊万娜。伊万娜没有回应评论请求。去年，这项指控再次出现在新闻媒体上时，伊万娜发表声明说，“这个故事毫无价值。”
In the early 1990s, Jill Harth and her boyfriend at the time, George Houraney, worked with Trump on a beauty pageant in Atlantic City, and later accused Trump of inappropriate behavior toward Harth during their business dealings. In a 1996 deposition, Harth described their initial meeting with Trump at Trump Tower. 
20世纪90年代初，吉尔·哈思(Jill Harth)和当时的男友乔治·胡拉尼(George Houraney)与特朗普一起参与大西洋城的一项选美比赛组织工作。后来，他们指责特朗普在工作过程中对哈思行为不当。在1996年的一项证词中，哈思讲述了他们在特朗普大厦与特朗普初次会面的情形。
“Donald Trump stared at me throughout that meeting. He stared at me even while George was giving his presentation,” Harth said in the deposition. “In the middle of it he says to George, ‘Are you sleeping with her?’ Meaning me. And George looked a little shocked and he said, ‘Well, yeah.’ And he goes, ‘Well, for the weekend or what?'” 
“唐纳德·特朗普在会面过程中一直盯着我看。就连乔治讲话时，他也盯着我看，”哈思在证词中说，“在会谈过程中，他问乔治：‘你和她上床吗？’他说的是我。乔治有点震惊，说，‘呃，是啊。’他说，‘只周末还是怎样？’”
Houraney said in a recent interview that he was shocked by Trump’s response after he made clear that he and Harth were monogamous. 
前不久，胡拉尼在接受采访时说，在他明确说明他和哈思遵循单一性伴侣原则后，特朗普的回答令他震惊。
“He said: ‘Well, there’s always a first time. I am going after her,'” Houraney recalled, adding: “I thought the man was joking. I laughed. He said, ‘I am serious.'” 
“他说：‘呃，总会有第一次。我要追她，’”胡拉尼回忆说。他接着说：“我以为他开玩笑呢。我大笑起来。他说：‘我是认真的。’”
By the time the three of them were having dinner at the Oak Room of the Plaza Hotel the next night, Trump’s advances had turned physical, Harth said in the deposition. 
哈思在证词中说，第二天晚上，三人在广场饭店的橡树屋餐厅(Oak Room)共进晚餐时，特朗普的挑逗转向身体方面。
“Basically he name-dropped throughout that dinner, when he wasn’t groping me under the table,” she testified. “Let me just say, this was a very traumatic thing working for him.” 
“整个进餐期间，他不是在桌子底下摸我，就是在吹嘘自己认识多少名人，”她在证词中说，“可以说，为他工作令我深受伤害。”
Harth, who declined to comment, gave the deposition in connection with a lawsuit that alleged Trump had failed to meet his obligations in a business partnership. Trump settled that case but denied wrongdoing. Harth withdrew her own lawsuit against Trump alleging unwanted advances, but she has stood by her original claims. 
哈思拒绝就本文发表评论。她是因为一项指控特朗普未能履行商业合作义务的诉讼而提供上述证词的。特朗普选择和解此案，但否认行为失当。哈思撤回了自己针对特朗普不当挑逗的诉讼，但坚持最初的指控。
Trump said it was Harth who had pursued him, and his office shared email messages in which Harth, over the past year, thanked Trump for helping her personally and professionally and expressed support for his presidential candidacy. 
特朗普说，是哈思追求他。他的办公室提供了一些邮件信息。那些邮件表明，哈思在过去的一年里，感谢特朗普在生活和事业上对自己的帮助，表示支持他竞选总统。
Defending His Record 
为过往辩护
Trump says the world misunderstands his relationship with women. 
特朗普说，世人误解了他和女人们的关系。
He sees himself as a promoter of women — a man whose business deals have given them untold opportunities for employment and advancement. “Hundreds and hundreds of women, thousands of women, are the better for it,” he said. 
他认为自己是女性的支持者，认为自己的生意给女人们提供了数不清的就业和提升机会。“许许多多的女人因此受益，”他说。
Several women who have held positions of power within the Trump Organization in recent years said they had never known Trump to objectify women or treat them with disrespect. 
近些年在特朗普集团(Trump Organization)身居要职的几个女人说，她们从不认为特朗普物化女性或不尊重女性。
“I think there are mischaracterizations about him,” said Jill Martin, a vice president and assistant counsel at the company. Martin said Trump had enthusiastically supported her decision to have two children over the past five years, even when it meant working from home and scaling back on business travel. 
“我觉得人们对他的性格认识有误，”该公司的副总裁兼助理法务顾问吉尔·马丁(Jill Martin)说。她表示，特朗普热情支持她在过去五年里生两个孩子的决定，虽然那意味着要在家工作，并减少出差。
“That’s hard with women lawyers,” she said. “For me, he’s made it a situation where I can really excel at my job and still devote the time necessary for my family.”
“对女律师来说，那很难，”她说，“但他给我创造了条件，让我能够真正做好自己的工作，还能给家人留出必要的时间。”