HONG KONG — Donald J. Trump’s suggestion that Japan and South Korea should take more responsibility for their defense, including possibly developing their own nuclear weapons, has provoked worries in Asia about the potential for a regional arms race.
香港——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)关于日本和韩国应该承担更多自我防卫义务、包括可能发展自己的核武器的建议，引起亚洲人们对潜在区域性军备竞赛的忧虑。
Thousands of United States troops are stationed in Japan and South Korea as part of mutual defense treaties. The arrangement puts American forces close to China and Russia and on the front lines of any possible conflict with North Korea. The allegiances are often described as cornerstones for regional defense.
作为共同防御条约的一部分，目前有成千上万的美国军队驻扎在日本和韩国。这种安排让美国军队出现在靠近中国和俄罗斯的地方，并在与朝鲜发生任何可能的冲突时，处于前线位置。日本和韩国与美国的这种合作常常被描述为区域防务的基石。
Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential front-runner, said in an interview on Friday with The New York Times that he would be open to withdrawing American forces from Japan and South Korea if those countries were not willing to pay more to keep those forces stationed in their countries. “I would not do so happily, but I would be willing to do it,” he said.
共和党总统候选人中的领先者特朗普上周五接受《纽约时报》采访时说，如果日本和韩国不愿为维持美国在其国家的驻军支付更多费用的话，他对从日韩撤军持开放态度。他说，“虽然那么做我会不愉快，但是我会那么做。”
Government press officers in Tokyo and Seoul, the South Korean capital, offered muted responses, citing the continuing United States presidential campaign. But some newspapers in Asia were vehement in denouncing Mr. Trump’s comments in their opinion pages.
在东京以及韩国首都首尔，政府新闻官员没有对这种说法表态，理由是美国的总统竞选活动仍在继续。但亚洲的一些报纸在其评论栏目强烈谴责了特朗普的言论。
The South Korean mass-circulation daily JoongAng Ilbo called Mr. Trump’s comment on the possible pullout of American troops “shocking.”
韩国发行量巨大的《中央日报》称特朗普有关美国军队可能撤出的言论“令人震惊”。
“His remarks totally shake mutual trust — the most pivotal element in the alliance,” it said. “If he ever becomes president, it will most likely affect the decades-old alliance between Seoul and Washington.”
该报评论说，“这是动摇同盟的基础——信赖的言论。假使特朗普成为美国总统，很可能会影响到长达数十年的韩美同盟关系。”
Mr. Trump indicated that he might support Japan and South Korea in developing nuclear arsenals, rather than relying solely on the United States. “At some point, we cannot be the policeman of the world,” he said. “And unfortunately, we have a nuclear world now.”
特朗普表示，他可能会支持日本和韩国发展核武器，而不只是依赖美国。“总会有我们不能当世界警察的时候，”他说。“不幸的是，我们现在有一个核世界。”
That suggestion has raised concerns that it might lead to an arms race, with Japan and South Korea building nuclear weapons to counteract the threat from North Korea, which has tested atomic devices.
该建议已引起人们担心可能引发军备竞赛，导致日本和韩国为抵御来自朝鲜的威胁制造核武器，朝鲜已经测试过原子弹。
“Trump’s comments not only completely violate the international consensus of preventing the expansion of nuclear weapons, but use long-ago abandoned Cold War thinking to challenge the trend of peaceful development and harm stability in East Asia,” Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong newspaper, said in an editorial on Monday.
“特朗普的这番言论不仅完全违背了国际社会防止核武器扩散的普遍共识，而且是用早已被世人垂弃的冷战思维来挑战和平发展的时代潮流，有损东亚地区的和平稳定，”香港报纸《文汇报》在周一的一篇社论中说。
Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at the Sejong Institute of South Korea and a leading proponent of the country’s arming itself with nuclear weapons, said he found support for his own ideas in Mr. Trump’s comments.
韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)高级分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)是支持韩国用核武器武装自己的一名主要代表人物。他说，他在特朗普的言论中找到了对自己想法的支持。
“Now that the leading Republican candidate is talking about letting South Korea arm itself with nuclear weapons and withdrawing American troops from here, we should no longer avoid discussing nuclear armament as one of our survival strategies,” Mr. Cheong said.
“如今，共和党的领先候选人也在谈论让韩国用核武器武装自己，并提出从这里撤走美国军队。把核军备作为我们生存策略之一，我们不应该再避免讨论这个问题了，”郑相昌说。
Asked about Mr. Trump’s remark on the possible withdrawal of troops from South Korea, Moon Sang-gyun, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, said it was inappropriate for him to comment on a statement by an American presidential candidate.
当被问及特朗普关于可能从韩国撤走美军的言论时，韩国国防部发言人文相均(Moon Sang-gyun)说，由他对美国总统候选人的声明发表评论不恰当。
“What I can tell you is that the South Korea-U.S. alliance remains firm under the mutual defense treaty, and that there is no change in that position and principle,” Mr. Moon said during a news briefing on Monday.
“我可以告诉你的是，共同防御条约之下的韩美联盟仍然牢固，这一立场和原则没有改变，”文相均在周一的新闻发布会上说。
Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, said Tokyo would maintain its policy of not developing or possessing nuclear weapons.
日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)表示，东京将坚持其不发展或拥有核武器的政策。
“Whoever becomes president, the Japan-U.S. alliance is the cornerstone of Japan’s foreign policy,” Mr. Suga said at a regularly scheduled news conference. “We will work closely with the U.S. for the sake of the prosperity and security of the Asia-Pacific region and the world.”
“不管谁当总统，日美同盟都是日本外交政策的基石，”菅义伟在例行记者会上说。“为了亚太地区和世界的繁荣与安全，我们将与美国密切合作。”
Some more-hawkish public figures in Japan seized on the comments to press the case for loosening constitutional restrictions on the military, a path that President Shinzo Abe has advocated.
日本一些更鹰派的公众人物抓住特朗普发表这番言论的机会，提出放松宪法对军力限制的问题，这也是安倍晋三首相一直的主张。