YPSILANTI, Mich. — Rolling back a move by his predecessor to tighten fuel-economy standards, President Donald Trump declared Wednesday that the reversal was just a first step in a campaign to expand U.S. auto manufacturing jobs.
密歇根州伊普西兰蒂——唐纳德·特朗普逆转了前任总统收紧燃油经济规定的举措，周三他宣布，这个逆转仅仅是增加美国汽车制造业工作岗位行动的第一步。
The president, in an appearance before hundreds of auto executives and workers in a former assembly plant near Detroit, said his administration would reopen a crucial review of federal mileage rules as part of a larger emphasis on cutting corporate regulations.
在底特律附近的一个前组装厂里，特朗普面对数百名汽车高管和工人表示，他的政府将重新对联邦里程规定进行重大审查，这是减少对公司的监管这一更大重点的一部分。
“We are going to work on the CAFE standards so we can make cars in America again,” Trump said, referring to the rules on corporate average fuel economy that were put in place in the final days of the Obama administration.
“我们将修改CAFE标准，这样我们可以重新在美国制造汽车，”特朗普说。他指的是奥巴马政府在离任前不久颁布的公司平均燃油经济性规定。
His remarks came after a meeting with executives of the Detroit automakers — General Motors, Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler — as well as Michigan workers and elected officials.
他的这番话，是在和底特律汽车制造商——通用汽车(General Motors)、福特汽车(Ford Motor)和菲亚特克莱斯勒(Fiat Chrysler)——的高管，以及密歇根工人和民选官员会面后发表的。
“We want to be the car capital of the world again,” he said. “And we will be.”
“我们想再次成为世界的汽车之都，”他说。“我们会做到的。”
Speaking in front of a sign that said “Buy American — Hire American,” the president said he expected that stripping away regulations would spur more automotive production in the United States. And he pledged again to stop the flow of automotive investment and jobs to Mexico under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
在一个“购买美国货——雇用美国人”的标识前，总统说他预计取消那些规定将刺激汽车商在美国生产更多的汽车。他还再次承诺，要制止根据北美自由贸易协定流向墨西哥的汽车投资和就业机会。
While he praised recent announcements of new American jobs by GM, Ford and Fiat Chrysler, Trump said he expected much more hiring in the future.
他对通用汽车、福特和菲亚特克莱斯勒最近宣布在美国提供新的工作岗位进行了表扬，但他也表示，期待未来会有更多的招聘。
“I told them that’s peanuts,” he said, referring to his meeting with the Detroit auto execs. “They’re going to be building new plants and expanding plants.”
“我跟他们说那是零头，”他谈到和底特律汽车高管会面的时候说。“他们要建造新的工厂，要扩大工厂。”
Trump’s decision to reopen the government’s review of long-term fuel-economy standards gives automakers an opportunity to argue for less stringent rules for new cars and trucks. Rules issued by the Obama administration called for a national standard of 54.5 mpg by 2025 across the automakers’ fleets.
特朗普决定重新开放政府对长期燃油经济性标准的评估，使得汽车制造商有机会为新车和卡车争取不那么严格的规定。奥巴马政府发布的规定要求，到2025年，所有汽车制造商的产品都要到达到54.5英里/加仑的国家标准。