WASHINGTON — Presidents usually choose their words carefully, the result of personal discipline and careful vetting by White House staff.
华盛顿——总统通常都会谨慎选择用词，这是个人的严谨和白宫工作人员严格审查的结果。
President Donald Trump is an exception. In an interview with Time magazine, published Thursday, Trump veers from topic to topic, praising himself and dismissing his critics in language that sometimes is hard to follow.
但唐纳德·特朗普总统是例外。在《时代》周刊(Time)周四发表的访谈文章中，特朗普不断变换话题，用有时候让人觉得难以理解的语言夸奖自己，并对批评者不屑一顾。
Here are several passages from the interview, and analysis on what they show about how Trump thinks.
以下是节选自该访谈文章的几个段落，以及对它们表现出了特朗普的什么思维进行的分析。
An ‘Instinctual Person’
一个“相信直觉的人’
“I’m a very instinctual person, but my instinct turns out to be right. When everyone said I wasn’t going to win the election, I said well I think I would. You know it is interesting, somebody came up to me and said the other day, gee whiz, The New York Times and other people, you know other groups, had you down at 1 percent. Well, I said, “No, I think I am going to win,” and people smiled, George Stephanopoulos laughed, you remember. He thought it was very cute, and very funny. Other people smiled. And some people, the smart people or the people that know me, didn’t laugh at all. There are people that know me, like Carl Icahn and many others, that didn’t laugh at all. They thought I was going to win, because they understand how I, they understand me. They get it.” — President Trump
“我是一个非常相信直觉的人，但我的直觉被证明都是对的。人人都说我不会赢得大选时，我说好吧，我觉得我会赢。你知道吗，很有意思，有人走到我跟前说，哎呀，几天前《纽约时报》和其他人，你知道那些人的，他们说你获胜的可能性只有1%。哦，我说，“不会的，我觉得我会赢。”然后人们就笑了，乔治·斯特凡诺普洛斯(George Stephanopoulos)也笑了，你记得吧。他觉得我这么说非常逗，非常好笑。其他人也笑了。但有一些人，那些聪明人和了解我的人没笑。那些了解我的人，比如卡尔·伊坎(Carl Icahn)和其他很多人根本没笑。他们觉得我会赢，因为他们知道我是什么样的人，他们了解我。他们明白。”——特朗普总统
If there’s one thing that Trump hates, it is being laughed at. That is clear from this response in the Time magazine interview, when the president dismissed the critics who found humor in his pursuit of the White House.
如果有什么事情是特朗普讨厌的，那就是被取笑。从他接受《时代》周刊采访时的这段回答中，能清楚地看出这一点。这位总统对从他竞选总统一事中找乐子的批评人士不屑一顾。
It is also worth remembering how flustered and angry Trump appeared to be when President Barack Obama made fun of him — and made a roomful of people laugh — during the 2011 White House correspondent’s dinner. Trump has said he will not attend this year’s dinner.
同样值得记住的一幕是在2011年的白宫记者晚宴上，当贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统拿特朗普打趣时，他多么不安和恼火。特朗普已表示不会参加今年的晚宴。
No matter if the facts contradict him, Trump appears to have convinced himself that he will be proved correct — always — in the future.
无论事实是否与其所言不符，特朗普似乎已经让自己相信，将来的事实会一如既往地证明他是对的。
Just Quoting
仅仅是引用
“Why do you say that I have to apologize? I’m just quoting the newspaper, just like I quoted the judge the other day, Judge Napolitano. I quoted Judge Napolitano, just like I quoted Bret Baier. I mean Bret Baier mentioned the word wiretap. Now he can now deny it, or whatever he is doing, you know. But I watched Bret Baier, and he used that term. I have a lot of respect for Judge Napolitano, and he said that three sources have told him things that would make me right. I don’t know where he has gone with it since then. But I’m quoting highly respected people from highly respected television networks.” — President Trump
“你为什么说我必须道歉？我只是引用了报纸上的话，就像我前几天引用法官的话一样。我引用纳波利塔诺法官的话，和我引用布雷特·拜尔(Bret Baier)的话一样。我是说，是布雷特·拜尔提到了窃听这个词。你知道的，现在他可以否认或是怎么样。但我看了他的节目，他就是那么说的。我很敬重纳波利塔诺法官，他说有三个消息来源和他说过一些情况，它们能证明我说的没错。我不知道他现在是什么态度。但我只是引用了备受敬重的人在备受敬重的电视节目上说的话。”——特朗普总统
Among Trump’s more bizarre assertions in recent days — and repeated in the Time interview — is the idea that he should not be held accountable for merely quoting someone who makes a controversial, even unproven, claim or allegation.
特朗普最近几天——在接受《时代》周刊的采访时又进行了重复——的言论中，更为奇怪的观点之一是，其他人提出了有争议，甚至是未经证实的说法或指控，他仅仅是引用了他们的话，不应对此负责。
That idea flies in the face of the long-standing expectation that everything a president says matters. Previous presidents have been careful, for example, not to say anything that could move financial markets. Trump (along with Sean Spicer, his spokesman, who similarly quoted Andrew Napolitano during a briefing) appears to believe that quoting someone else shields him from that expectation.
这个观点完全违背了外界长期以来的想法，即总统说的每句话都很重要。之前的总统都很谨慎，比如避免发表可能会影响金融市场的一切言论。特朗普（连同他的发言人、在一次新闻发布会上同样引用了安德鲁·纳波利塔诺[Andrew Napolitano]的表述的肖恩·斯派塞[Sean Spicer]）似乎认为，引用其他人的话可以让自己不受那个期望的约束。
BONUS: Trump asserts in this passage that Napolitano had “three sources” for a claim about British intelligence conducting surveillance on Trump Tower. That is particularly ironic, given Trump’s attacks on the news media for using anonymous sources.
额外收获：特朗普在这一段中宣称，对于英国情报机构监视特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)这个说法，纳波利塔诺有“三个消息来源”。考虑到特朗普对新闻媒体使用匿名消息来源的攻击，这一点特别讽刺。
‘Very Sad’ About Sweden
对瑞典感到‘非常遗憾’
“I am talking about Sweden. I’m talking about what Sweden has done to themselves is very sad, that is what I am talking about. That is what I am talking about. You can phrase it any way you want. A day later they had a horrible, horrible riot in Sweden and you saw what happened. I talked about Brussels. I was on the front page of The New York Times for my quote. I said Brussels is not what it used to be, very sad what has happened to Brussels. I was absolutely lambasted. A short time later they had the major attack in Brussels. One year ago today. Exactly one year ago today. And then people said, ‘You know, Trump was right.'” — President Trump
“我说的是瑞典。我说的是，瑞典对自己做的事情令人非常遗憾，这就是我想说的。你可以随意怎么引用。一天后，瑞典出现了骇人听闻的骚乱，发生的事情你也看到了。我说到了布鲁塞尔。我的话出现在了《纽约时报》的头版。我说布鲁塞尔已经不是以前那个布鲁塞尔了，对布鲁塞尔发生的事情感到非常遗憾。我当然又是被一顿猛批。但不久后，布鲁塞尔就发生了重大袭击。一年前的今天，恰好是一年前的今天。然后有人说，‘你看，特朗普是对的。’”——特朗普总统
One of the staples of Trump’s rhetorical repertoire is trying to rewrite what he said in the past to fit a new set of facts that has since been revealed. This passage in the Time interview is a classic example: His comments about Sweden during a rally referred to some alleged situation the previous night. Now, in the interview, he makes it seem as if he had been prescient, anticipating a riot that happened several days later.
特朗普主要的口头本事之一是试图把过去说过的话改一改，让它和之后新出现的一系列事实相符。这一段话就是一个典型的例子：他在一场集会上有关瑞典的评论谈的是头一天晚上据说发生了的事情。现在接受采访时，他表现得好像自己有预知能力，料到几天后会发生骚乱一样。
Trump uses this tactic a lot. But he may find it more difficult now that he is in the White House, since by tradition just about every word a president utters is transcribed.
这一招特朗普用得很多。但他也许会发现，进入白宫后难度增加了，因为按照传统，总统说的几乎每一个字都会被记录下来。
How Life Works
人生秘诀
“I happen to be a person that knows how life works. I said I was going to win the election, I won the election. In fact, I was number one the entire route, in the primaries. From the day I announced, I was number one. And The New York Times and CNN and all of them, they did these polls, which were extremely bad and they turned out to be totally wrong, and my polls showed I was going to win. We thought we were going to win the night of the election.” — President Trump
“我恰好是一个知道人生秘诀的人。我说我会赢得选举，我的确赢了。实际上，我在整个过程中都是第一名，在初选中也是。从我宣布竞选那一天开始，我就是第一名。《纽约时报》，CNN，所有媒体都做了调查，那些调查极其糟糕，事实证明它们完全错了，我自己的调查显示我会赢。我们觉得我们会在选举夜获胜。”——特朗普总统
Central to Trump’s self-image is his belief that he is smarter than the people around him. Throughout his campaign, he often bragged that he knew better than the doubters, who he predicted eventually would be proven wrong.
特朗普自我形象的核心，是他认为自己比周围的人聪明。在整个竞选期间，他常常吹嘘自己比对他持怀疑态度的人更了解情况。他预言事实最终会证明，那些人都错了。
In addition to contradicting some of his previous assertions (in which he acknowledged that he had not known whether he would win), this passage in the interview underscores the extent to which Trump rarely allows any self-doubt to creep into his thinking.
除了和他之前的部分言论（承认他并不知道自己会不会赢）相矛盾外，访谈中的这一段话突显出了特朗普几乎不允许任何自我怀疑进入他的思路的程度。
‘I’m President, and You’re Not’
‘我是总统，你不是’
“I inherited a mess with jobs. Despite the statistics, you know, my statistics are even better, but they are not the real statistics because you have millions of people that can’t get a job, OK. And I inherited a mess on trade. I mean we have many, you can go up and down the ladder. But that’s the story. Hey look, in the meantime, I guess, I can’t be doing so badly, because I’m president, and you’re not. You know. Say hello to everybody, OK?” — President Trump
“在就业上，我接手的是一个烂摊子。你知道的，尽管有各种统计数据，我掌握的数据甚至更乐观，但它们并不是真实的数据，因为有数以百万计的人们找不到工作。贸易上也是个烂摊子。我的意思是我们有很多问题，上上下下都是。但情况就是这样的。我说，虽然如此，我想我表现得不算太差，因为我是总统，你不是。你明白吗。代我向大家问好，好吗？”——特朗普总统
All presidents want to know how they are doing after moving into 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. And many denigrate the job of their predecessor; Obama often criticized the economy and the foreign policy he inherited from President George W. Bush.
所有总统都想知道自己在搬进宾夕法尼亚大道1600号后表现如何。很多人都会贬低前任的工作。奥巴马就经常抨击他从乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)那里接手的经济和外交政策。
Trump is no exception, and this passage shows his willingness to rely on the same positive jobs numbers that he frequently dismissed as a candidate.
特朗普也不例外。这一段表明他愿意依赖乐观的就业数据。可在竞选期间，他经常对它们不屑一顾。
But his response at the end of this interview also shows how Trump’s mind works: His victory in November is the last word in the success of his administration.
但他在采访结束时的回答，也显示出了特朗普的思维方式：就他领导的政府所取得的成功而言，他在去年11月的胜利已经算是结语。