Donald Trump pushed back aggressively on Thursday against what he called “false smears” from women who claimed unwanted advances, seeking to stabilize his campaign as Michelle Obama declared “it doesn’t matter what party you belong to, no woman deserves to be treated this way.”
在米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)宣告“你属于哪个政党并不重要，任何女性都不该被如此对待”之时，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)对一些他称为“虚假诽谤”的言论进行了猛烈反击，试图稳定自己的竞选态势。这些言论来自一些自称遭遇非礼行为的女性。
The dueling addresses showed how the race had been galvanized by reports of Trump’s behavior with the election less than four weeks away, with Trump calling the disclosures a “horror show of lies” as they increasingly consumed his campaign.
这些针锋相对的陈述显示出，在距离大选日不到四周的时候，这场竞选如何被有关特朗普行为的报道充斥。这些被特朗普称为“恐怖的谎言”的信息披露，正在越来越多地消耗他的竞选。
The New York Times reported on Wednesday night that two women said Trump had touched them inappropriately, groping them and kissing them forcefully in ways that echoed the boasts he made of being able to sexually assault women on a 2005 recording released last week.
《纽约时报》在周三晚间报道，有两名女性表示，特朗普曾以不得体的方式触碰她们，强行抚摸和亲吻，其方式与上周曝光的一段2005年的录音中，他自夸自己可以性侵犯女性的方式一致。
Other news organizations, including The Palm Beach Post, BuzzFeed and People magazine, reported stories about women who had troubling encounters with Trump. He has said that he never acted on his “locker room talk” captured in the 2005 video.
包括《棕榈滩邮报》(The Palm Beach Post)、BuzzFeed和《人物》(People)杂志在内的其他新闻机构，也报道了与特朗普有过遭遇的女性的故事。他表示，他从来没有按2005年视频捕捉的“更衣室谈话”中提到的那种方式行动过。
In a series of messages posted on Twitter on Thursday morning, Trump said that the article in The Times was a “total fabrication” and denied the incident described by Natasha Stoynoff, a former writer for People, who said that Trump had forced his tongue down her throat while she was working on an assignment for the magazine about his first anniversary with his wife, Melania.
周四上午，特朗普在Twitter上发布了一系列消息，称时报的文章是“十足的谎言”，也否认了前《人物》杂志作者娜塔莎·斯托伊诺夫(Natasha Stoynoff)描述的事件。后者称，特朗普曾在她为《人物》杂志前去报道他与妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)的第一个结婚纪念日时，强行将他的舌头伸进自己的嘴里。
At a rally Thursday in West Palm Beach, Florida, Trump lashed out at the news media for buttressing Hillary Clinton’s campaign, calling the reports about his inappropriate behavior “false smears.”
在周四于佛罗里达州西棕榈滩举行的一场集会活动上，特朗普抨击新闻媒体支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选活动，称有关他不当行为的报道为“虚假的诽谤”。
“Anyone who challenges them is deemed a racist, a sexist, a xenophobe and morally deformed,” he said of the news media, repeatedly singling out the “failing New York Times.”
“所有挑战他们的人都被视为种族主义者、性别歧视者、仇外者，道德上是扭曲的，”他这样讲到新闻媒体，而且不止一次专门提到“每况愈下的《纽约时报》”。
“They will seek to destroy everything about you, including your reputation,” Trump said. “They will lie, lie, lie, and they will do worse than that.”
“他们会试图毁掉你的一切，包括你的名声，”特朗普说。“他们撒谎，撒谎，再撒谎，还会做比这更恶劣的事。”
Trump also threatened to take legal action on Wednesday night in response to the new allegations and threatened, through his lawyer, to sue The Times for libel if it did not retract the article and apologize.
特朗普也曾在周三晚上威胁要对新的指控采取法律行动，还表示如果《纽约时报》不撤回那篇文章并进行道歉，他将通过自己的律师起诉《纽约时报》诽谤。
“Your article is reckless, defamatory and constitutes libel per se,” Marc E. Kasowitz, Trump’s lawyer, wrote in a letter to The Times. “It is apparent from, among other things, the timing of the article, that it is nothing more than a politically motivated effort to defeat Mr. Trump’s candidacy.”
“你们的文章是草率而有诽谤性的，实质上构成了诽谤罪，”特朗普的律师马克·E·卡索威茨(Marc E. Kasowitz)在致时报的一封信中写道。“尤其是从这篇文章发布的时间看，它显然是有政治动机的行为，是为了挫败特朗普的候选人资格。”
Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The Times, said in a statement, “We stand by the story, which falls clearly into the realm of public service journalism.”
时报女发言人艾琳·墨菲(Eileen Murphy)发声明称，“我们支持这篇报道，它明显属于公共服务新闻范畴。”
The Times has said it will not retract the article and welcomed the opportunity to take the matter to court.
时报还表示，它不会撤回该报道，也不介意为之诉诸公堂。
The Clinton campaign said that the latest revelations were more evidence that Trump was unfit to be president and showed that he lied on the debate stage on Sunday night.
克林顿的竞选团队表示，最新披露的信息进一步证明特朗普没有资格当总统，也证明他上周日晚上在大选辩论舞台上撒了谎。
At a rally Thursday in New Hampshire, Michelle Obama, the first lady, ripped into Trump and said that his treatment of women was a sign of weakness. “We simply cannot endure this or expose our children to it any longer, not for another minute let alone another four years,” Obama said.
在周四于新罕布什尔州举行的一场集会活动中，美国第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马对特朗普进行了猛烈的抨击，称他对待女性的方式是一种软弱的表现。“我们根本无法忍受这种行为，也不能再让我们的孩子看到这些信息，再多一分钟都不行，更不用说四年，”米歇尔·奥巴马说。
She added, “Now is the time to stand up and say enough is enough.”
她还表示，“是时候站出来说，我们受够了。”
The Trump campaign has been thrown into turmoil by the allegations and the damage that the recording has done to his standing with women and with the Republican leaders who have disavowed him or revoked their endorsements.
随着这些指控的出现，加之录音对他在女性和共和党领导层中的信誉造成破坏——后者已经在否认或取消他们对他的支持，特朗普的竞选团队陷入混乱。
National and state polls show Trump’s support has plummeted in the last two weeks. In an effort to turn things around, he has stepped up his personal attacks on Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton. Trump also dispatched his daughter Ivanka to the Pennsylvania suburbs on Thursday in the hope that she can lift his standing in the crucial swing state.
全国和州级的民意调查显示，特朗普的支持率在过去两周大幅下降。为扭转这种局面，他加强了对克林顿及其丈夫、美国前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的人身攻击。特朗普还派他的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)于周四前往宾夕法尼亚州郊区参加活动，希望她能在这个关键的摇摆州提高他的声望。
Some of Trump’s staunchest allies have been unusually critical of him during the most difficult stretch of his campaign.
特朗普的竞选活动正处于最艰难的阶段，然而他最坚定的一些盟友出人意料地对他表示了不满。
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and presidential candidate in 2012 who wanted to be Trump’s running mate, suggested on Thursday that there were two Donald Trumps.
前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)周四称存在两个唐纳德·特朗普。他曾在2012年参加共和党总统候选人初选，也在这次竞选中表达过担任特朗普竞选搭档的意愿。
“There’s a big Trump and a little Trump,” he said on the Fox Business Network. “The little Trump is frankly pathetic.”
“一个是大特朗普，一个是小特朗普，”他在福克斯商业频道(Fox Business Network)上说。“坦白讲，小特朗普很差劲。”
However, not all of Trump’s supporters were ready to find fault with the candidate.
然而，并非所有的特朗普支持者都准备责难这位候选人。
Jerry Falwell Jr., a prominent evangelical Christian leader who is the president of Liberty University in Virginia, said that he did not believe the allegations made against Trump and defended his character.
著名的基督教福音派领袖、弗吉尼亚州利伯缇大学(Liberty University)校长小杰里·福尔韦尔(Jerry Falwell Jr.)表示，他不相信针对特朗普的那些指控是真的，还为他的名誉进行了辩护。
“That videotape that was released last week, I think there’s a different Donald Trump now,” Falwell told CNN. “Unlike Hillary, I believe all people are redeemable, and I believe his life has changed.”
“和上周曝光的录像带中的人相比，我觉得现在的特朗普不一样了，”福尔韦尔对CNN讲道。“和希拉里不同的是，我认为所有人都是可以救赎的，我相信他已经变了。”
At Trump’s rally in West Palm Beach, the candidate’s most ardent fans stood by him.
在于西棕榈滩举行的集会活动上，特朗普最忠实的粉丝选择继续支持他。
“I hope it’s not true, but I can’t look at that right now,” said Karen Hainline, 54, of Wellington, Florida. “I have to look at who is going to run our country and make jobs. We’re getting people beheaded in our own country. We need security.”
“我希望那不是真的，但我眼下顾不上这个，”54岁的佛罗里达州惠灵顿人凯伦·汉林(Karen Hainline)说。“我得看谁会管理我们的国家，谁会创造工作机会。我们有人在自己的国家里在被砍头。我们需要安全保障。”
Trump said that he would soon provide evidence that the allegations of improper behavior were not true. He claimed that the women who were coming forward were not properly vetted and that in some cases their stories did not add up.
特朗普表示，他会很快拿出证据，证明针对他的不当行为指控是假的。他还表示，那些自告奋勇站出来讲话的女性没有经过充分的审查，有时候她们讲的东西说不通。