WASHINGTON — President Trump reverted Tuesday to blaming both sides for the deadly violence in Charlottesville, Va., and at one point questioned whether the movement to pull down Confederate statues would lead to the desecration of George Washington.
华盛顿——周二，特朗普总统再次指责弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔致命暴力事件中的双方，还质疑拆除南部联邦雕像的行动是否会导致对乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)的亵渎。
In a combative exchange with reporters at Trump Tower in Manhattan, the president repeatedly rejected a torrent of bipartisan criticism for waiting two days before naming the right-wing groups and for placing blame on both the right and the left for the bloodshed on Saturday that ended with the death of a young woman after a car crashed into a crowd.
在曼哈顿的特朗普大厦，总统与记者展开唇枪舌战，一再反驳两党对他过了好几天才点右翼团体的名，并且将周六汽车冲入人群、导致一名年轻女子死亡的流血事件归因于左右两派的连珠炮似的批评。
He said that “before I make a statement, I like to know the facts.”
他说，“在我发表声明之前，我想了解事实。”
And he criticized “alt-left” groups that he claimed were “very, very violent” when they sought to confront the white nationalist and Nazi groups that had gathered in Charlottesville, Va., to protest the removal of a statue of Robert E. Lee from a park. He said there is “blame on both sides.”
他批评“极左”组织，说他们在弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔面对白人民族主义者和纳粹群体时“非常、非常暴力”，这些群体聚集在那里是为了抗议把罗伯特·E·李(Robert E. Lee)的雕像从一个公园拆除。他表示“双方都有责任”。
“Many of those people were there to protest the taking down of the statue of Robert E. Lee,” Mr. Trump said. “This week, it is Robert E. Lee and this week, Stonewall Jackson. Is it George Washington next? You have to ask yourself, where does it stop?” he said, noting that the first American president had owned slaves.
“在那里的大多数人，都是为了抗议拆除罗伯特·E·李的雕像。”特朗普说：“本周是罗伯特·E·李和斯通沃·杰克逊(Stonewall Jackson)。接下来会是乔治·华盛顿吗？你必须问问自己，要做到什么程度才会止步？”他说。他还指出美国的第一任总统是个蓄奴者。
Mr. Trump defended those gathered in the Charlottesville park to protest the statue’s removal, saying, “I’ve condemned neo-Nazis. I’ve condemned many different groups. Not all of those people were neo-Nazis, believe me. Not all of those people were white supremacists by any stretch.”
特朗普为那些聚集在夏洛茨维尔公园抗议拆除这座雕像的人做辩护，表示：“我谴责过新纳粹。我谴责过很多不同的团体。不是所有的人都是新纳粹，相信我。并不是所有这些人都是白人至上主义者。”
Mr. Trump unleashed a torrent of frustration at the news media, saying they were being “fake” because they did not acknowledge that his initial statement about the Charlottesville protest was “very nice.”
特朗普对新闻媒体的报道表达了高度失望，说它们是“假的”，因为它们不承认他对于夏洛茨维尔抗议的初步声明“非常好”。
Again and again, Mr. Trump said that the portrayal of nationalist protesters in the city were not all Nazis or white supremacists, and he said it was unfair to suggest that they were.
特朗普一再表示，在这个城市里，民族主义示威者并不都是纳粹或白人至上主义者，他认为否定这一点是不公平的。
The president added that blame for the violence in the city – which also took the lives of two Virginia state troopers when their helicopter crashed – should also be on people from “the left” who came to oppose the nationalist protesters.
总统还说，对这起暴力事件的谴责——还导致两名弗吉尼亚州警因直升机坠毁而死亡——也应该落在反对民族主义示威者的左派人士身上。
“You had a group on one side and the other, and they came at each other with clubs, and it was vicious and horrible. It was a horrible thing to watch,” the president said. “There is another side. There was a group on this side, you can call them the left. You have just called them the left, that came violently attacking the other group. You can say what you want. That’s the way it is.”
“两边各有一个团体，他们带着棍子互殴，这是恶性事件，很可怕。目睹这样的事情很可怕，”总统说。“还有一边。这边有一个团体，你可以把他们称为左派。你已经把他们称为左派了，他们猛烈攻击对方。你想怎么说就怎么说，但事情就是这样的。”
He also called the alleged driver of the car that crashed into the crowd, James Alex Fields Jr., 20, “a disgrace to himself, his family and this country. You can call it terrorism. You can call it murder. You can call it whatever you want.”
他还说被控开车冲入人群的20岁男子小詹姆斯·亚历克斯·菲尔兹(James Alex Fields Jr.)“对他自己，他的家人和这个国家都是一种耻辱。你可以称之为恐怖主义，你可以称之为谋杀，你想怎么说都行”。
Mr. Fields is being held without bail on charges of murder and malicious wounding in the death of Heather D. Heyer. His first court appearance was on Monday.
菲尔兹因希瑟·D·耶尔(Heather D. Heyer)因希瑟·海耶尔(Heather D. Heyer)死亡一案遭到谋杀和恶意伤人指控，目前在押，不可保释。他首次出庭是在周一。