Sometimes the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree. Sometimes the apple is also considerably dimmer than the tree. And sometimes the apple must be thrown under the bus so that the tree and a few of its most crucial limbs don’t tumble to the forest floor, where they’ll be chopped up and used as firewood by Democrats.
有时，落下的苹果不会离树很远。有时，苹果看上去要比树晦暗许多。有时，苹果必须被扔到车轮之下，以便大树和其他最重要的枝干不会倒落在地上，被民主党人劈了当柴烧。
Is that the fruity fate of Donald Trump Jr.?
这就是小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)的“果报”吗？
On Tuesday morning, he released a chain of emails from June of last year that prove that he was eager to get dirt on Hillary Clinton from a representative of Russia, that the information was indeed characterized as “part of Russia and its government’s support” for his father’s presidential bid and that he held a meeting in the hopes of learning more.
周二上午，他公布了去年6月的一系列电子邮件，证明他渴望从一个俄罗斯代理人那里拿到希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的黑材料，事实上这些信息被描述为“俄罗斯及其政府”支持他父亲的总统竞选的“一部分”，他安排了一次会议，希望能对此了解更多。
It was, for my money, the most jaw-dropping development yet in an already-surreal presidency, and making sense of it requires some conjecture.
在我看来，这届总统已经够离奇的了，而此事则是迄今最令人惊讶的最新进展。要弄清个中道理，需要做一些臆测。
But evaluating the damage doesn’t. This erodes whatever credibility President Trump and those in his inner circle had left (which wasn’t much). Adamantly and incessantly, they have characterized questions about the Trump campaign’s possible cooperation with Russia as ludicrous — a “witch hunt,” in their preferred parlance.
但是评估此事的破坏性，就不需要猜了。这件事削弱了特朗普总统和他目前仅剩的几名亲信（本来就不多）的信誉。对于特朗普的竞选团队与俄罗斯合作这种可能性，他们一直坚决地斥之为荒唐——用他们喜欢的说法，这种质疑是“政治迫害”。
And yet here is a document showing that the notion of such a concerted effort was dangled before the eyes of Trump’s eldest son, who responded with glee — “I love it,” he wrote — and hauled his brother-in-law, Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafort, who was then the campaign’s chairman, into a meeting about it.
然而现在这里有一个文件表明，当这样一个与俄罗斯合作的念头在特朗普长子眼前晃时，他高兴地做出回答——“我很喜欢，”他这么写道——还拖着妹夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)和当时的竞选主席保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)一起举行了一次会面。
With the walls now closing in around Donald Jr., I wouldn’t be surprised if he says that he didn’t really believe the written claim that this was “very high level and sensitive information” from the Russian government itself.
现在，随着压力向小唐纳德迫近，如果他说自己并不真的相信邮件中所称，那些信息是来自俄罗斯政府“高层的敏感信息”，我也不会感到惊讶。
But evaluate any and all spin from him through the lens of his evasions and empty grandstanding to date. When The New York Times first disclosed the meeting in an article on Saturday, he released a statement implying that the meeting’s purpose was to discuss Russian adoptions.
但是，坐在空旷的看台上，通过他迄今那些托词来评估他所编造的所有那些东西吧。当《纽约时报》周六在一篇文章中披露这次会议时，他发表了一项声明，表示这次会议的目的是讨论俄罗斯孤儿收养。
A day later, he significantly changed his story, admitting in a new statement that he had been led to expect material “helpful to the campaign” and that he cut the meeting off when the Russian lawyer who came to Trump Tower diverted the discussion toward adoptions. Read the statement: Bizarrely and hilariously, it’s so focused on the lawyer’s bait-and-switch and Donald Jr.’s disappointment that it boldly confirms how badly he’d craved dirt and how misleading his initial response to The Times was. Like I said: dim.
一天之后，他大幅改变了自己的故事，在一项新的声明中承认，他曾期待那些材料“有助于竞选”，而当那位来到特朗普大厦的俄罗斯律师将话题转向领养时，他就中断了会议。读一下这份声明：奇怪而又滑稽的是，它非常强调律师的“诱导转向”伎俩，以及小唐纳德的失望，这分明证实了他曾经过多么渴望那些黑材料，以及他对时报的最初回应是有多么具有误导性。就像我说的那样：晦暗。
The emails released on Tuesday make clear how incomplete both of those versions were, and they appear to contradict his insistence in the second statement that Kushner and Manafort knew nothing about the meeting’s intent.
星期二公布的电子邮件表明，这两个版本都不完整，它们似乎与他的第二份声明相矛盾，声明中称库什纳和马纳福特对会议意图一无所知。
The release of the emails, at least, is no head scratcher: Donald Jr. apparently believed that The Times was about to publish them anyway and figured that if he beat us to the punch, he’d make it look as if he had nothing to hide. He tweeted that he wanted “to be totally transparent.”
至少电子邮件的发布并不令人奇怪：小唐纳德显然相信时报即将发布它们，并认为如果他能让自己显得毫无隐瞒，就能打败我们。他发推说，他希望能“完全坦率”。
Right. “Transparent” has as much to do with his last four days as “modest” does with his father’s entire 71 years.
好吧。过去四天里他确实“坦率”，就像他父亲整整71年都很“谦虚”一样。
And flash back to July 24 of last summer, which was just a month and a half after the meeting with the Russian lawyer, and Donald Jr.’s response when the CNN anchor Jake Tapper asked him about the Clinton campaign’s assertion that Russians could be engaged in “a plot to help Donald Trump.”
回到去年夏天的7月24日，那是在与俄罗斯律师会面后的一个半月之后，当时CNN主播杰克·泰普尔(Jake Tapper)对他说，克林顿的竞选团队称俄罗斯人可能在参与“一个能帮助唐纳德·特朗普的阴谋”，看看他的回答吧。
“It just goes to show you their exact moral compass,” Donald Jr. said, in what will go down as one of the most priceless instances ever of the psychological phenomenon of projection.
“这只是让你看到了他们的道德水准，”小唐纳德表示。这可能是最荒唐的心理投射效应实例之一。
He railed to Tapper about “lie after lie” from the Clinton camp, said they’d “do anything to win,” and — my favorite part — claimed that if a Republican were making the kinds of wild allegations of Russian meddling that they were, there’d be a call “to bring out the electric chair” for that person. The electric chair, no less!
他向泰普尔抱怨，克林顿阵营抛出“一个又一个谎言”，他说他们会“为了获胜不择手段”，而我最喜欢的是他说，如果一个共和党人像他们那样，抛出俄罗斯人正在进行干涉的野蛮指控，那么会有人呼吁，让那个人“去坐电椅”。还是电椅呢！
Well, he’s on the hot seat now, and the days — by which I mean 48 hours ago — when we were all worked up about Ivanka Trump’s presumptuous place at the G-20 table suddenly seem quaint. That actually is a nothingburger in the context of this whopper.
现在好了，坐在电椅上的是他，几天来——我是说，48小时以前——我们一直关注着伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)在20国集团首脑桌边冒失地就座的事情，突然之间，这件事似乎就成了久远的历史。在这个谎言的映衬之下，伊万卡的事的确微不足道了。
Of course Papa poo-poo’ed it, releasing a statement Tuesday afternoon that vouched, “My son is a high-quality person.” I can buy that Donald Jr. is too low-wattage a political operative to have understood that his Russia hugging was extraordinary and possibly treasonous, but not that he considered it virtuous.
爸爸对此当然不屑一顾，周二下午，他通过一份声明担保“我的儿子是品质高尚的人”。我可以接受的解释是小唐纳德的政治头脑太差，不明白他和俄罗斯亲密交往是件非同小可的事，可能会构成叛国；但我不信他会觉得这是什么高尚之举。
I wonder whether Ivanka actually factors into this. Among the Trump children, she always sopped up the most lavish praise from Dad and drew the most media fascination. She was cast as his secret weapon. Such a designation eluded Donald Jr. When he met with the Russian lawyer, was he clumsily trying to maneuver his way to greater utility, favor and relevance?
我想知道伊万卡是否也真的参与到这件事里来了。在特朗普的孩子们当中，她总是从爸爸那里获得最慷慨的赞美，也对媒体最有吸引力。她被当作他的秘密武器。小唐纳德就没有被分配到这样的任务。当他与俄罗斯律师会面时，是否在笨拙地尝试让自己发挥更大的作用，赢得更多喜爱，变得更重要呢？
Instead, in the grand tradition of ne’er-do-well namesakes, he brought his sire grief.
相反，由于“沿用父亲名字的人总是什么都干不好”这个伟大传统，他给父亲带来了麻烦。
There’s no proof that Donald Trump Sr. knew of the meeting with the Russian lawyer, though there’s this: In the week between its scheduling and its occurrence back in June 2016, he made public remarks in which he said he’d be delivering a special speech about Clinton’s wrongdoing that was set — oh so interestingly, in retrospect — for a few days after the meeting. But that meeting, we’re now told, was a bust, with no great trove of Clinton-wounding revelations, and the speech didn’t happen as promised.
没有证据表明老唐纳德·特朗普知道儿子与俄罗斯律师的会面，尽管如此，2016年6月从安排到会面的那一周，他曾公开表示会就克林顿的不当行为做一次特别演讲——现在回顾起来真是太有意思了——时间就定在那次会议结束后的几天。但是，我们现在被告知，那次会议很失败，没有揭发出什么对克林顿有害的猛料，特朗普也没有做自己承诺的那场演讲。
It will be interesting to watch the president’s next moves. Enamored of loyalty and deaf to charges of nepotism and conflict of interest, he has kept his kids in a tight circle around him. But to survive, he may have to push this bad apple away.
观察总统的下一步行动会很有趣。他用忠诚武装自己，对任人唯亲和利益冲突的指责听而不闻，以此让孩子们紧紧地围绕在自己身边。但要想继续生存，他可能不得不把这个坏苹果推开。