President Donald Trump posted a short video to his Twitter account on Sunday in which he is portrayed wrestling and punching a figure whose head has been replaced by the logo for CNN.
周日，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统在Twitter上发了一段短视频，在视频中，他推倒、猛击一个人，这个人的头被换成了CNN的标志。
The video, about 28 seconds long, appears to be an edited clip from a years-old appearance by Trump in WrestleMania, an annual professional wrestling event. The clip ends with an on-screen restyling of the CNN logo as “FNN: Fraud News Network.”
视频大约长28秒，它似乎是多年前特朗普在摔角狂热(WrestleMania)上亮相时的视频剪辑。摔角狂热是每年一次的职业摔角赛事。视频结尾处，屏幕上显示了CNN标志的变体：“FNN：欺诈新闻网”(FNN: Fraud News Network)。
In a speech Saturday in Washington, Trump referred to CNN as “garbage journalism” and said: “The fake media tried to stop us from going to the White House. But I’m president, and they’re not.”
周六，特朗普在华盛顿发表讲话时称CNN是“垃圾新闻”，还说：“假新闻试图阻止我们入主白宫。但是现在，我是总统，他们不是。”
The wrestling video, which was also posted to the official @POTUS Twitter account, stirred criticism, disbelief and dumbfoundedness. Some journalists denounced its portrayal of violence as dangerous, saying it could incite attacks or threats against media employees.
这段摔角视频还发布到了总统官方Twitter账户@POTUS上，它引发了批评、怀疑和惊愕。有些记者谴责该视频对暴力的描述是危险的，称它会引发对媒体从业者的攻击或威胁。
“I think it is unseemly that the president would attack journalists for doing their jobs, and encourage such anger at the media,” said Dean Baquet, executive editor of The New York Times.
 “我认为总统攻击在做本职工作的新闻工作者，在媒体上鼓励这样的愤怒，很不得体，”《纽约时报》的执行主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)说。
The administration did not respond to a request for comment. Trump’s homeland security adviser, Thomas Bossert, defended the video when he viewed it for the first time during a broadcast interview with Martha Raddatz of ABC News. “No one would perceive that as a threat,” Bossert said. “I hope they don’t.”
特朗普政府没有回应置评请求。特朗普的国土安全顾问托马斯·博塞特(Thomas Bossert)在接受ABC新闻的广播采访时首次看到视频，他对视频进行了辩护。“没人会把它视为威胁，”博塞特说。“我希望他们不会。”
Trump’s fans on Reddit were exuberant about what they viewed as validation from the country’s most powerful man. “I love this,” wrote a user identified as American-Crusader. “You know he saw it, chuckled, and knew he could control the media narrative for days by hitting the ‘post’ button. So he did.”
特朗普在Reddit上的粉丝情绪高涨，认为那是美国最有权力的人的认可。“我很喜欢这个，”一名自称“美国十字军”(American-Crusader)的用户写道，“你知道，他看见了这个，把他逗乐了，他知道只要按下‘发送’按钮就能控制接下来几天的媒体叙事。于是他就发了。”
On Sunday, CNN issued its response.
周日，CNN进行了回应。
“It is a sad day when the president of the United States encourages violence against reporters,” the network said in a statement. “Instead of preparing for his overseas trip, his first meeting with Vladimir Putin, dealing with North Korea and working on his health care bill, he is involved in juvenile behavior far below the dignity of his office. We will keep doing our jobs. He should start doing his.”
“今天是个悲哀的日子，美国总统鼓励对记者实施暴力，”该新闻网在一项声明中说。“他没有为出国访问以及与弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的首次会面做准备，也没有在处理朝鲜问题或研究医保法案，而是在进行拉低他的职位尊严的幼稚行为。我们会继续做我们的工作。他也应该开始做他的。”