President-elect Donald J. Trump will not be sworn in for two more months, but as of next week, the big gold letters spelling out his name will be removed from three large apartment buildings on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, tenants were told on Tuesday.
还要再过两个月，当选总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)才会宣誓就职，但位于曼哈顿上西区的三栋大型公寓楼的住户周二得到消息，自下周起，这几栋楼外构成特朗普名字的金色字母将被拆除。
Hundreds of tenants at the buildings at 140, 160 and 180 Riverside Boulevard, which contain a total of 1,325 apartments, signed a petition to “Dump the TRUMP name,” last month after Mr. Trump’s provocative campaign statements had offended women, immigrants and liberals on the Upper West Side.
继特朗普充满挑衅的竞选言论触怒了上西区的女性、移民和自由派后，上个月，滨江大道(180 Riverside Boulevard)140号、160号和180号三栋公寓楼的数百名租户签署了一份请愿书，要求“去掉TRUMP这个名字”。这里总共有1325套公寓。
The buildings, between 66th and 69th Streets, along Riverside Boulevard, are owned not by Mr. Trump but by Equity Residential, a publicly traded company based in Chicago.
这几栋建筑位于66街和69街之间的滨河大道上，它们不属于特朗普，而是芝加哥上市公司公平住屋(Equity Residential)的旗下物业。
Mr. Trump, a Republican, had been involved in the development known at various times as Riverside South and Trump Place. Equity Residential bought the buildings and kept the name Trump Place on the exterior of the buildings and on their letterhead, signage and uniforms.
共和党人特朗普之前参与了这个开发项目，它在不同时间曾分别被称为河滨南(Riverside South)和特朗普公馆(Trump Place)。后来公平住屋买下这些建筑，将特朗普公馆的名字保留在了建筑外墙、信头、标识和制服上。
Tenants got a hint that change was afoot in late October when doormen told residents that they were being measured for new uniforms that would no longer bear the Trump name.
租客们在10月底就隐约得知即将发生变化，当时门卫告诉住户他们正在量尺寸制作新制服，上面不会再有特朗普这个名字。
Then, on Tuesday, they received an email from Mary Pawlisa, a senior regional manager for Equity. It read: “This week, the Trump Place building names will change to the street addresses — 140, 160 and 180 Riverside Boulevard. The purpose of this change is to assume a neutral building identity that appeals to all current and future residents.”
接着，他们在周二收到了公平住屋高级区域经理玛丽·珀丽莎(Mary Pawlisa)发来的电子邮件。信里写道：“本周，特朗普公馆的名称将改为街道地址—— 河滨大道140、160和180号。调整的目的是赋予这些建筑中立的身份，使之适合当前和未来的所有居民。”
Asked whether the T-R-U-M-P letters on the buildings had hurt the company’s ability to lease vacant apartments, Martin McKenna, Equity Residential’s vice president for investor and public relations, said: “I don’t have a comment on that. A more neutral identity going forward is the path we’re taking.”
在被问到建筑上的T-R-U-M-P几个字母是否损害了出租空置公寓的能力时，公平住屋负责投资者与公共关系的副总裁马丁·麦克纳(Martin McKenna)说：“我对此不予置评。保持更为中立的身份是我们目前的做法。”
Equity Residential’s portfolio consists of about 80,000 apartments in New York, Boston, Seattle, Southern California and Washington — coincidentally all areas where Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, won a majority. Mr. McKenna preferred to describe those markets as “24/7 gateway cities.”
公平住屋的投资组合包括分布在纽约、波士顿、西雅图、南加州和华盛顿州的约8万套公寓——巧的是，这些都是民主党总统候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)赢得多数人支持的地方。不过，麦克纳更愿意将这些市场描述为“24/7门户城市”。
Linda Gottlieb, a resident who started the petition, was elated.
发起请愿活动的住户林达·戈特利布(Linda Gottlieb)非常兴奋。
“We won,” Ms. Gottlieb, a film and television producer, said. “We used the power of protest to say that we don’t have to accept the spread of the man’s influence into our very homes. To me, it feels like a cleansing of the place where I live.”
“我们赢了，”身为电影和电视制作人的戈特利布女士说道。 “我们借助抗议的力量表明，不必忍受这个人的影响进入家里。对我来说，这就像是给自己住的地方做大扫除。”
In what she called postelection “misery,” she added, “I’m cheered.”
她还表示，在其所谓的一片选后“惨淡”之中，“我感到欢欣鼓舞。”