President Trump threatened on Tuesday to unleash “fire and fury” against North Korea if it endangers the United States as tensions with the isolated nuclear-armed state grow into perhaps the most serious foreign policy challenge yet in his young administration.
同与世隔绝的拥核国家朝鲜的紧张关系，或许是年轻的特朗普政府目前面临的最严峻的外交政策挑战。特朗普总统周二威胁称，如果危害到美国，朝鲜会遭遇“炮火和怒火”。
“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States,” Mr. Trump told reporters at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J. “They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen. He has been very threatening beyond a normal state and as I said they will be met with fire and fury and frankly power the likes of which this world has never seen before.”
“朝鲜最好不要再对美国发出威胁了，”特朗普在其位于新泽西州贝德明斯特的高尔夫俱乐部对记者说。“他们会得到全世界从未见过的炮火和怒火。他的威胁超出了正常情况，就像我说的那样，他们会遇到炮火和怒火，坦率地说，就是这个世界以前从来没有见过的那种力量。”
The president’s comments came as North Korea earlier in the day escalated its criticism of the United States, as well as its neighboring allies, by warning that it will mobilize all its resources to take “physical action” in retaliation against the latest round of United Nations sanctions.
特朗普发表此番言论时，正值朝鲜当天早些时候升级对美国及其邻国盟友的指责，警告称它会动员一切资源，采取“实际行动”，报复最新一轮联合国制裁。
The statement, carried by the North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency, was the strongest indication yet that the country could conduct another nuclear or missile test, as it had often done in response to past United Nations sanctions. Until now, the North’s response to the latest sanctions had been limited to strident yet vague warnings, such as threatening retaliation “thousands of times over.”
朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)刊登的这份声明，是朝鲜可能会再次进行核武器或导弹试验的最明显迹象。过去，朝鲜经常这么做，以作为对联合国制裁的回应。在此之前，朝鲜对最新制裁的回应仅限于强硬但含糊其辞的警告，比如威胁要进行“千百倍”的报复。
“Packs of wolves are coming in attack to strangle a nation,” the North Korean statement said. “They should be mindful that the D.P.R.K.’s strategic steps accompanied by physical action will be taken mercilessly with the mobilization of all its national strength.”
“为了扼杀一个国家，狼群要来攻击了，”朝鲜的声明写道。“他们应该记着，DPRK将动员国家的一切力量，毫不手软地采取战略步骤和实际行动。”
D.P.R.K. stands for the North’s official name, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
DPRK代表的是朝鲜的官方名称，全称是朝鲜民主主义人民共和国。
North Korea’s statement on Tuesday appeared to defy efforts by both Washington and Beijing to defuse the tense situation.
朝鲜周二发表的声明，似乎让华盛顿和北京为缓和紧张局势所做的努力付诸东流了。
On Monday, while attending a regional security meeting of foreign ministers in Manila, the United States’ secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, kept the door open for talks with North Korea, suggesting that the country should stop its recent string of missile launches to set the stage for negotiations over its weapons programs. At the same venue, Foreign Minister Wang Yi of China said he told his North Korean counterpart, Ri Yong-ho, that the North should stop carrying out nuclear and missile tests.
周一在马尼拉出席一场外长级地区安全会议期间，美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)一直对朝鲜开放着谈判的大门，建议它停止最近的一连串导弹试射，为就其武器计划展开谈判创造条件。在这场会议上，中国外长王毅称，他告诉朝鲜外长李勇浩(Ri Yong-ho)，朝鲜应该停止进行核武器和导弹试验。
Incensed by the North’s two intercontinental ballistic missile tests last month, the United Nations Security Council adopted a new sanctions resolution over the weekend, the eighth since the country conducted its first nuclear test in 2006. Backers of the resolution said the new sanctions would cut North Korea’s meager annual export revenue by about a third, impeding its ability to raise cash for its weapons programs.
周末，被朝鲜上月的两次洲际弹道导弹试验激怒的联合国安理会通过了一项新制裁决议。这是自该国2006年首次进行试验后的第八项制裁决议。支持者称新一轮制裁会让朝鲜本已很微薄的每年出口收入削减大约三分之一，制约其为武器计划筹集资金的能力。
President Trump praised the sanctions in a tweet on Tuesday morning. “After many years of failure, countries are coming together to finally address the dangers posed by North Korea,” he said. “We must be tough & decisive!”
特朗普总统周二上午发推文称赞新一轮制裁。“失败这么多年后，各国终于团结起来，应对朝鲜构成的危险，”他说。“我们必须强硬果断！”
The sanctions ban member countries from importing coal, iron, iron ore, lead, lead ore and seafood from North Korea. They also prohibit member nations from hosting any additional workers from the North above their current levels. Washington called the restrictions “the most stringent set of sanctions on any country in a generation.”
制裁禁止成员国从朝鲜进口煤炭、铁、铁矿石、铅、铅矿石和海鲜。它们还禁止成员国在现有基础上再接收来自朝鲜的工人。华盛顿称相关限制措施是“一代人以来对一个国家实行的最严厉的一批制裁措施”。
But strong doubts remain over how rigorously China and Russia, the North’s two neighboring allies, will enforce the sanctions.
对于朝鲜的邻国兼盟友中国和俄罗斯严格执行制裁规定的程度，依然存在强烈的怀疑。
The sanctions also do not impair the North’s ability to import oil and export clothing and textiles that its workers produce for Chinese companies, although the sanctions ban new joint ventures with North Korea and any new investment in current joint ventures. Clothing and textile exports are a leading source of foreign currency for the impoverished country.
制裁也不会影响朝鲜进口石油和出口该国工人为中国公司生产服装和纺织品的能力，尽管制裁禁止与朝鲜成立新的合资企业，以及投资现有的合资企业。服装和纺织品出口是这个一贫如洗的国家的头号外汇来源。
Officials and analysts still doubt that North Korea has mastered the technology needed to deliver a nuclear payload on an intercontinental ballistic missile. But its last ICBM test, conducted on July 28, alarmed Washington and its allies by demonstrating that missiles now could potentially reach much the continental United States.
至于朝鲜是否已经掌握了利用洲际弹道导弹发射核弹头所需的技术，官方和分析人士依然持怀疑态度。但它在7月28日进行的最后一次洲际弹道导弹试验表明，导弹现在具备抵达美国本土很多地方的潜力。这引起了华盛顿及其盟友的警惕。
“North Korea’s development of ballistic missiles and its nuclear program are becoming increasingly real and imminent problems for the Asia-Pacific region including Japan, as well as the rest of the world,” the Japanese government said in an annual threat assessment released on Tuesday. “It is possible that North Korea has already achieved the miniaturization of nuclear weapons and has acquired nuclear warheads.”
“朝鲜的弹道导弹和核计划发展，正在成为包括日本在内的亚太地区，以及世界其他地方日渐现实和紧迫的问题，”日本政府在周二发布的一份年度威胁评估报告中说。“朝鲜可能已经实现了核武器的小型化，并制造出了核弹头。”
One of the last technical hurdles North Korea must clear is mastering the “re-entry” know-how to protect a small nuclear warhead as the missile crashes through the earth’s atmosphere.
朝鲜必须要清除的最后的技术障碍之一是掌握“再入”技术，以便在导弹穿过地球大气层时保护小型核弹头。