WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump, whose sometimes erratic behavior in office has generated an unprecedented debate about his mental health, declared on Saturday that he was perfectly sane and accused his critics of raising questions to score political points.
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普总统在任期间时常出现的不稳定行为引发了人们对其心理健康史无前例的争论，他于周六公开表示自己神志完全清晰，并指责他的批评者这么做是出于政治原因。
In a series of Twitter posts that were extraordinary even by the standards of his norm-shattering presidency, Trump insisted that his opponents and the news media were attacking his capacity because they had failed to prove that his campaign conspired with Russia during the 2016 presidential campaign.
在一系列即使按他总统任期内打破常规的标准来说都算得上反常的Twitter发帖中，特朗普坚称他的竞争对手和新闻媒体对他的能力发起攻击，是因为他们无法证明在2016年的总统大选中他的竞选活动与俄罗斯存在勾结。
“Now that Russian collusion, after one year of intense study, has proven to be a total hoax on the American public, the Democrats and their lapdogs, the Fake News Mainstream Media, are taking out the old Ronald Reagan playbook and screaming mental stability and intelligence,” he wrote on Twitter even as a special counsel continues to investigate the Russia matter.
“经过一年的深入研究，通俄门现已被证明是对美国民众彻头彻尾的骗局，民主党人及其走狗，制造假新闻的主流媒体，又玩起了老罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的脚本，叫嚷着精神稳定和智力问题，”他在Twitter上写道，然而一名特别检察官正在继续调查俄罗斯事件。
“Actually, throughout my life, my two greatest assets have been mental stability and being, like, really smart,” he added. He said he was a “VERY successful businessman” and television star who won the presidency on his first try. “I think that would qualify as not smart, but genius....and a very stable genius at that!”
“事实上，在我的一生中，最大的两项资产就是精神稳定还有，就是，非常聪明，”他补充道。他说自己是“非常成功的商人”和电视明星，并且第一次参选就当上了总统。“我想这证明了我不是聪明，而是天才……是一个精神状态非常稳定的天才！”
Elaborating during a meeting with reporters at Camp David later in the day, Trump again ticked off what he called a high-achieving academic and career record. He raised the matter “only because I went to the best colleges, or college,” he said. Referring to a new book citing concerns about his fitness, he said, “I consider it a work of fiction and I consider it a disgrace.”
当天晚些时候在戴维营(Camp David)与记者会面时，特朗普再次列举了其所谓优良的学术和职业记录。他说自己提起这个问题“只因为我去了最好的学校、学院”。在提到一本对其健康表示担心的新书时，他说，“我认为这是一本虚构作品，我还认为这本书令人丢脸。”
The president’s engagement on the issue is likely to fuel the long-simmering argument about the president’s state of mind that has roiled the political and psychiatric worlds and thrust the country into uncharted territory. Democrats in Congress have introduced legislation to force the president to submit to psychological evaluation. Mental health professionals have signed a petition calling for his removal from office. Others call armchair diagnoses a dangerous precedent or even a cover for partisan attacks.
总统的精神状态搅动着政治世界和精神病世界，将美国抛入了未知的领域，而总统与此事的牵扯可能使蓄积已久的争论加剧。国会的民主党人提出立法以迫使总统提交心理评估。心理健康专家也签名请愿要求总统下台。也有人认为这样不切实际的诊断是危险的例证，甚至是党派攻击的幌子。
In the past week alone, a new book resurfaced previously reported concerns among the president’s own advisers about his fitness for office, the question of his mental state came up at two White House briefings and the secretary of state was asked if Trump was mentally fit. After the president boasted that his “nuclear button” was bigger than Kim Jong Un’s in North Korea, Richard W. Painter, a former adviser to President George W. Bush, described the claim as proof that Trump is “psychologically unfit” and should have his powers transferred to Vice President Mike Pence under the Constitution’s 25th Amendment.
仅在过去一周，有一本新书重提之前特朗普的顾问担心他是否合适任职的传闻，两次白宫新闻发布会上都有人提出了总统精神状况的问题，国务卿也被问及特朗普心理是否健康。在总统吹嘘了自己拥有比朝鲜的金正恩更大的“核按钮”后，曾任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统顾问的理查德·W·佩恩特(Richard W. Painter)将这一言论视作特朗普“心理不健康”的证据，并应根据宪法第25修正案将权力移交给副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)。
Trump’s self-absorption, impulsiveness, lack of empathy, obsessive focus on slights, tenuous grasp of facts and penchant for sometimes far-fetched conspiracy theories have generated endless op-ed columns, magazine articles, books, professional panel discussions and cable television speculation.
特朗普只顾自己、冲动、缺乏同情心、爱钻牛角尖以及对一些往往牵强的阴谋论的喜爱引来了无数的专栏文章、杂志文章、书籍、专业座谈会以及有线电视的猜想推测。
“The level of concern by the public is now enormous,” said Bandy X. Lee, a forensic psychiatrist at Yale School of Medicine and editor of “The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump: 27 Psychiatrists and Mental Health Experts Assess a President,” a book released last fall. “They’re telling us to speak more loudly and clearly and not to stop until something is done because they are terrified.”
“公众的关注程度现在超乎想象，”耶鲁大学医学院的鉴证精神医生、去年秋天出版的《特朗普的危险个案：27名精神科医生和心理健康专家对一名总统的诊断》(The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump: 27 Psychiatrists and Mental Health Experts Assess a President)一书的编辑班迪·X·李(Bandy X. Lee)说。“他们正在告诉我们，要更大声、更清楚地发声，在取得成就之前不要停，因为他们感到很害怕。”
As Politico reported, Lee was invited to Capitol Hill last month to meet with about a dozen members of Congress to discuss the matter. But all but one of the lawmakers she briefed are Democrats. While some Republicans have raised concerns, they do so mostly in private. Others scoff at the question, dismissing it as outrageous character assassination.
据Politico报道，李上个月被邀请前往国会山，与数十名国会议员见面讨论这个问题。在与她会面的立法者当中，除一人以外全都是民主党人。尽管一些共和的人提出了担忧，他们多数是在私下。其他人对这个问题则嗤之以鼻，斥责它为无耻的人格诽谤。
Few questions irritate White House aides more than inquiries about the president’s mental well-being, and they argue that Trump’s opponents are trying to use those questions to achieve what they could not at the ballot box.
很少有问题比质疑总统的精神健康更能激怒白宫的助手，他们表示，特朗普的对手在试图利用这些问题来取得他们无法在选举中获得的东西。
“This shouldn’t be dignified with a response,” said Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor.
“这个问题根本不值得回应，”白宫顾问凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)说。
“The partisans on Capitol Hill consulting with psychologists should reorient their spare time: support the president’s positive agenda of middle class tax cuts, rebuilding infrastructure and the military, investing in our workforce,” Conway said later in an email. “The never-ending attempt to nullify an election is tiresome; if they were truly ‘worried about the country,’ they’d get to work to help it.”
“那些在国会山咨询心理学家、偏袒一方的人应该重新调整他们的空闲时间：支持总统给中产阶级减税的积极议程，重建基础设施和军队，为我们的劳动力投资，”康威后来在一封邮件中说。“这场无休止的、企图让选举无效的努力让人厌烦；如果他们真的‘为国家感到担忧’，他们就应该好好工作，帮助这个国家。”