LONDON — Swedes reacted with confusion, anger and ridicule Sunday to a vague remark by President Donald Trump that suggested that something terrible had occurred in their country.
伦敦——周日，瑞典人对美国总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)发出的含糊言论表现出了困惑、愤怒和嘲笑。他的言论暗示这个国家发生了一些可怕的事。
During a rally Saturday in Florida, Trump issued a sharp attack on refugee policies in Europe, ticking off a list of places that have been hit by terrorists.
在周六于佛罗里达举行的一个集会上，特朗普对欧洲的难民政策发表了尖锐的抨击，列举了一系列曾遭到恐怖袭击的地方。
“You look at what’s happening,” he told his supporters. “We’ve got to keep our country safe. You look at what’s happening in Germany, you look at what’s happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this?”
“你们看看正在发生的事，”他对自己的支持者讲道。“我们必须保障自己国家的安全。你们看看德国正在发生的事，看看瑞典昨晚发生的事。瑞典，谁能相信这样的事？”
Not the Swedes.
反正不是瑞典人。
Nothing particularly nefarious happened in Sweden on Friday and Swedes were left baffled.
周五瑞典并没有发生什么特别恶性的事件，所以瑞典人对此感到困惑。
Trump did not state, per se, that a terrorist attack had occurred in Sweden.
特朗普其实并没有明确指出瑞典遭遇过恐怖袭击。
But the context of his remarks suggested that he thought it might have.
但他发表言论的上下文暗示，他是这么想的。
“Sweden,” Trump said. “They took in large numbers. They’re having problems like they never thought possible.”
“瑞典，”特朗普说。“他们接收了大量难民，正在遭遇自己从来不觉得会发生的事。”
He then invoked the terrorist attacks that have taken place in Paris in 2015 and in Brussels and Nice, France, last year, to make an argument for tightening scrutiny of travelers and asylum seekers. “We’ve allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people,” he said. “There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we’re going to keep our country safe.”
接着他提到巴黎于2015年、布鲁塞尔和法国尼斯于去年遭遇的恐怖袭击，以此说明需要加强对旅行者和寻求庇护者的审查。“我们允许成千上万人进入我们的国家，却没有办法对这些人进行审查，”他说。“没有证明文件。什么也没有。所以我们要保障自己国家的安全。”
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, a White House spokeswoman, tried to clarify the president’s remarks Sunday, saying Trump did not mean to suggest that a particular attack had happened, but rather was talking about crime in general in Sweden.
周日，白宫发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)试图澄清总统的言论，称特朗普不是指瑞典曾经发生过某次袭击，而是在谈论其整体的犯罪情况。
Trump offered his own clarification Sunday, writing on Twitter: “My statement as to what’s happening in Sweden was in reference to a story that was broadcast on @FoxNews concerning immigrants & Sweden.”
特朗普也于周日澄清了自己的观点，他在Twitter上写道：“我关于瑞典在发生什么的说法是基于@福克斯新闻频道播出的一则有关移民与瑞典的报道。”
In that story, Fox News correspondent Tucker Carlson interviewed Ami Horowitz, a filmmaker who asserts that migrants in Sweden have been associated with a crime wave. “They often times try to cover up some of these crimes,” Horowitz said, arguing that those who try to tell the truth about the situation are shouted down as racists and xenophobes.
在那个报道中，福克斯新闻频道记者塔克·卡尔森(Tucker Carlson)采访了电影制作人埃米·霍罗威茨(Ami Horowitz)，后者坚称瑞典的移民与一拨犯罪浪潮有关。“他们往往竭力掩盖一些犯罪行为，”霍罗威茨说道，并表示试图讲出事实真相的人会被当作种族主义者和仇外者。