WASHINGTON — Just a few blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House sits the Trump International Hotel, one of the newest luxury additions to President-elect Donald J. Trump’s real estate empire, and perhaps the most visible symbol of the ethical quandary he now confronts.
华盛顿——从白宫出发，沿着宾夕法尼亚大道走过几个街区，便能看到特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)。它是候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的房地产帝国最新添加的豪华物业之一，大概也是他现在面临的道德困境最明显的象征。
The Trump International operates out of the Old Post Office Building, which the federal government owns. That means Mr. Trump will be appointing the head of the General Services Administration, which manages the property, while his children will be running a hotel that has tens of millions of dollars in ties with the agency.
特朗普国际酒店位于为联邦政府所有的老邮局大楼(Old Post Office Buidling)里。这意味着，特朗普将任命负责管理这处产业的总务管理局(General Services Administration)的一把手，而他的子女将经营一家与该机构有数千万美元资金往来的酒店。
He also will oversee the National Labor Relations Board while it decides union disputes involving any of his hotels. A week before the election, the board ruled against Mr. Trump’s hotel in a case in Las Vegas.
他还将监督全国劳动关系委员会(National Labor Relations Board)对涉及他名下任何一家酒店的工会纠纷做出裁决。在大选前一个星期，该委员会在拉斯维加斯的一起纠纷中做出了不利于特朗普的酒店的裁决。
The layers of potential conflicts he faces are in many ways as complex as his far-flung business empire, adding a heightened degree of difficulty for Mr. Trump — one of the wealthiest men to ever occupy the White House — in separating his official duties from his private business affairs.
在很多方面，他所面临的层层相叠的潜在冲突与其广阔的商业帝国一样复杂。这为特朗普——史上最富有的白宫主人之一——将公务和个人商务分开增加了难度。
Further complicating matters are Mr. Trump’s decision to name his children to his transition team, and what is likely to be their informal advisory role in his administration. His daughter Ivanka Trump joined an official transition meeting on Thursday, the day before Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey was removed from his post leading the effort.
特朗普决定任命他的子女加入过渡团队的决定，以及他们可能会在他的政府里担任的非正式顾问角色，让情况变得更加复杂。周四，特朗普的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)参加了一个官方的过渡会议。一天后，新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)被免去了领导过渡工作的职务。
Mr. Trump has said he will eliminate ethical concerns by turning the management of his company over to his children, an arrangement he has referred to as a blind trust.
特朗普称，将通过把公司的管理移交给子女，来消除民众对他在道德上的担忧。他表示将用保密信托的形式来实现这一安排。
But ethics lawyers — both Republicans and Democrats — say it is far from blind because he would have knowledge of the assets in the trust and be in contact with the people running it, making it unlike a conventional blind trust controlled entirely by an independent party.
但道德问题律师——既有民主党人，也有共和党人——表示，这根本称不上保密，因为他了解信托基金中的资产，并会与管理基金的人保持联系，这让它有别于完全由独立的一方掌控的传统保密信托基金。
“To say that his children running his businesses is the equivalent of a blind trust — there is simply no credibility in that claim,” said Matthew T. Sanderson, a Washington lawyer and Republican who has worked on the presidential campaigns of John McCain, Rand Paul and Rick Perry. “Yes, the American public elected him knowing he has these assets, but unless he deals with this properly there will just be a steady trickle of these conflict-of-interest stories, and it could be a drag on his presidency.”
“声称让子女管理他的企业就相当于保密信托，这种说法根本不可信，”华盛顿的律师、曾为约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)、兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)和里克·佩里(Rick Perry)的总统竞选服务的共和党人马修·T·桑德森(Matthew T. Sanderson)说。“是，美国民众选他的时候是知道他有这些资产，但除非他妥善处理这个问题，否则这些涉及利益冲突的故事就会一点一点地逐步传出来，这会拖累他的总统威信。”
A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump’s company said in a statement that the Trump Organization was already working to address possible conflicts.
特朗普的公司的发言人在一份声明中说，特朗普集团(Trump Organization)已经着手处理可能会出现的冲突了。
“We are in the process of vetting various structures with the goal of the immediate transfer of management of the Trump Organization and its portfolio of businesses to Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric Trump along with a team of highly skilled executives,” the statement said. “This is a top priority at the organization, and the structure that is ultimately selected will comply with all applicable rules and regulations.”
“我们正在仔细审查各种结构，目的是尽快将特朗普集团及其下属企业的管理移交给小唐纳德(Donald Tump Jr.)、伊万卡、埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)和一个由非常熟练的高管组成的团队，”声明说。“这是集团的首要任务，最终选定的结构将符合适用的所有规章制度。”
Also on Monday, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and the ranking member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, called for an inquiry into how Mr. Trump will handle these potential conflicts.
同样在周一，马里兰州民主党众议员、监管和政府改革委员会(House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform)副主席伊莱贾·E·卡明斯(Elijah E. Cummings)要求对特朗普将如何处理这些潜在冲突进行调查。
“The American people have the right to know — they ought to know — exactly whether decisions are possibly being made that would benefit him, his family and his associates directly,” Mr. Cummings said in an interview.
“美国民众有权知道——他们应该知道——正在做出的决定有没有可能会给他、他的家人和他的合作伙伴带来直接的好处，”卡明斯在接受采访时说。
The labor dispute in Nevada represents another potential complication. The president appoints all five members of the National Labor Relations Board. But over the past year, the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas has been in a battle with the culinary workers union, at first challenging an effort by hotel employees to unionize. The labor board ruled against him in July. Then the hotel, which Mr. Trump co-owns, refused to begin negotiations with the new union, and the labor board again ruled against it, in November. Other labor disputes with employees are pending.
内华达州那起劳动纠纷代表着另一个潜在的难题。全国劳动关系委员会的五名成员均由总统任命。但过去一年里，拉斯维加斯特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel Las Vegas)一直在与餐饮工作人员工会斗争，最初是挑战酒店员工为建立工会所作出的努力。7月，全国劳动关系委员会做出了不利于特朗普的裁定。之后，特朗普与他人共有的该酒店拒绝启动与新成立的工会之间的谈判。于是，该委员会于11月再次裁定酒店一方败诉。与员工的其他劳动纠纷则尚未结案。
“Will he as president of the United States of America use the power he has to interfere — given that he has a financial interest in the outcome of these matters?” said Bethany Khan, a spokeswoman for the 57,000-member Culinary Workers Union Local 226 of Nevada.
“鉴于这些事情的结果关系着他的经济利益，他当上美利坚合众国的总统后会不会动用手中的权力加以干涉？”有5.7万名成员的内华达州厨工226分会(Culinary Workers Union Local 226)的发言人贝萨妮·汗(Bethany Khan)说。
Perhaps most troubling for Mr. Trump, several ethics lawyers said, is a relatively obscure provision of the Constitution, called the Emoluments Clause, which prohibits any government official from taking payments or gifts from a foreign government, or even from sharing in profits in a company that has financial ties to a foreign government.
多名道德事务律师表示，对特朗普来说最麻烦的或许是宪法中一个相对模糊的条款，即薪酬条款(Emoluments Clause)。它禁止政府官员收受外国政府的金钱和礼物，乃至参与同外国政府有经济往来的公司的利润分成。
Mr. Trump has had business deals with foreign governments or individuals with apparent ties to foreign governments, including multimillion-dollar real estate arrangements in Azerbaijan and Uruguay. His children have frequently traveled abroad to promote the Trump brand, making trips to Canada, the United Arab Emirates and Scotland. Closer to home, the Bank of China is a tenant in Trump Tower and is a lender for another building in Midtown Manhattan where Mr. Trump has a significant partnership interest.
特朗普一直和外国政府及似乎和外国政府有关系的个人有生意往来，包括在阿塞拜疆和乌拉圭的巨额房地产合同。为了宣传特朗普这个品牌，他的子女频频出国，前往加拿大、阿拉伯联合酋长国和苏格兰。再把目光转向国内，中国银行是特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的租户，并且是特朗普握有重要合作利益的另一栋曼哈顿中城大楼的贷款银行。
“Doing business with a foreign corporation, be it in Azerbaijan, Turkey or Russia, if is it owned in part or controlled by a foreign government — any benefit that would accrue to Mr. Trump could well be a violation of the Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution,” said Kenneth A. Gross, a political ethics and compliance lawyer in Washington.
“和外国公司做生意，不管是在阿塞拜疆、土耳其还是俄罗斯，如果公司是外国政府部分或全部所有，特朗普获取的任何利益都很可能违反美国宪法的薪酬条款，”华盛顿政治道德与合规律师肯尼思·A·格罗斯(Kenneth A. Gross)说。
There are also more general issues that could prove troubling. For instance, Mr. Trump will nominate the Treasury secretary, yet he owes hundreds of millions of dollars to banks, and he benefits from low interest rates set by the Federal Reserve, an institution he has criticized as political. The head of the Internal Revenue Service is also appointed by the president, and the agency is currently auditing Mr. Trump’s taxes and sets tax policy that directly affects his businesses.
事实可能还会证明，一些更广泛的问题也令人担忧。比如，特朗普将任命财政部长，但他自己有数亿美元的银行债务，并受益于被他指责具有政治色彩的机构美联储(Federal Reserve)制定的低利率。美国国家税务局(Internal Revenue Service)的局长也由总统任命。但该机构目前正在审计特朗普的纳税情况，并将制定对他的多家公司有直接影响的税收政策。