Melania Trump borrowed from Michelle Obama for her speech at the Republican convention where her husband was nominated for president. To defend him against charges of sexual harassment and groping, she had a different source: Hillary Clinton.
在丈夫获得总统提名人资格的共和党全国大会上发表演说时，梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)曾借用米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)的演讲词。为了给特朗普面临的性骚扰和猥亵指控辩护，她转向了另一位借鉴对象：希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。
She’s parroting the arguments Clinton used decades ago to defend her own cheating and lying spouse.
她在机械地模仿克林顿几十年前为自己撒谎和有外遇的丈夫辩护时采用的措辞。
“I believe my husband,” Melania Trump told Anderson Cooper this week when she finally broke her silence on Donald’s notorious 2005 conversation with Billy Bush and the growing number of women who have publicly accused Trump of harassment or assault.
“我相信我的丈夫，”梅拉尼娅·特朗普本周对安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)讲道。她终于打破沉默，开始谈论特朗普2005年与比利·布什(Billy Bush)那段臭名昭著的谈话，以及公开指控特朗普性骚扰或侵犯的女性不断增加一事。
Trump’s accusers are telling “lies,” Melania said, and the media, of course, are part of the problem. “I didn’t expect media would be so dishonest and so mean. I didn’t expect that,” she said. “Also for me, from the beginning, I never had one correct story — one honest story.”
梅拉尼娅表示，指控特朗普的人是在“撒谎”，当然媒体也是造成这个问题的一部分因素。“我没想到媒体会这么不诚实，这么刻薄。我没想到，”她说。“对我自己的报道也是如此，从开始到现在，就没有过一个正确的报道，没有一个真实的报道。”
But there is something more sinister going on. “This was all organized from the opposition,” she explained. “Did they ever check the background of these women?”
但还有比这更加恶意的事情。“这都是对手组织的，”她解释说。“他们真的核实过这些女人的背景吗?”
Sound familiar?
听起来有些熟悉？
“The great story here for anybody willing to find it and write about it and explain it is this vast right-wing conspiracy that has been conspiring against my husband since the day he announced for president,” Hillary Clinton told Matt Lauer in January 1998.
“这个所有人都愿意发现、撰写和解释的好故事，是右翼针对我丈夫设下的大阴谋，从他宣布参加竞选的那一天开始就没停过，”1998年1月，希拉里·克林顿这样对马特·劳尔(Matt Lauer)讲道。
Hillary’s conspiracy was on the right and Melania’s is on the left. Other than that, it’s the same argument.
希拉里说的是右翼的阴谋，梅拉尼娅指的是左翼。除此以外，这两种论调没什么区别。
Melania went further and bought into her husband’s argument that he couldn’t have harassed or assaulted a woman he deemed unattractive, even though such behavior is not about desire but power, control and hostility.
梅拉尼娅还更进一步，表示她相信丈夫的说辞，即他不可能骚扰或侵犯一个他觉得没有吸引力的女人，尽管此类行为和欲望无关，而更关乎权力、控制和敌意。
“I see many, many women coming to him and giving phone numbers and, you know, want to work for him — inappropriate stuff from women,” she said. I guess that Trump politely deflected such advances, although Melania did not say. And, of course, Trump could not possibly have behaved differently when she was not there to see it.
“我看到很多很多女人找上他，给他电话号码，你知道的，想为他工作——做女人不该做的那些事，”她说。我猜特朗普大概是礼貌地回绝了这类投怀送抱的行为，尽管梅拉尼娅并没有这么讲。当然，她本人不在场时，特朗普的表现也不会有什么不一样。
It’s not surprising that a woman in Melania’s position would defend her husband, and publicly accept his apology.
站在梅拉尼娅的立场上，这样一位女性为自己的丈夫辩护，公开接受他的道歉，这并不让人意外。
But Melania’s husband and his increasingly loopy surrogates (one said a Labor Department rule requiring financial advisers not to cheat their clients was like the Dred Scott decision) have been endlessly attacking Clinton for defending her husband and criticizing his accusers.
但梅拉尼娅的丈夫及他那些愈发疯狂的代理人（其中一位表示，劳工部[Labor Department]要求财务顾问不能欺骗自己客户的规定，就像对德雷德·斯科特[Dred Scott]案的判决一样），却因克林顿为自己的丈夫辩护和批评指控他的人，在不停地攻击她。
That’s supposed to make us think that Hillary is to blame for Bill’s misbehavior. In a particularly transparent ploy, Trump even brought a few of those women to St. Louis for his second debate with Clinton.
这是要让我们觉得，希拉里应该为比尔·克林顿的不端行为受责。特朗普还采取了一种极其显而易见的策略，带了几名这样的女性到圣路易斯，以便在他与克林顿的第二次辩论中用来攻击她。
If we’re supposed to blame Hillary Clinton for her husband’s misdeeds, should we blame Melania for Donald’s?
如果我们该为丈夫的不端行为怪罪希拉里·克林顿，是不是也要为特朗普的行为责怪梅拉尼娅？
Maybe Melania didn’t know what she was going to say to Anderson Cooper. Maybe the same writer who plagiarized Michelle Obama for the convention speech was whispering into a hidden earpiece.
或许梅拉尼娅此前并不知道自己要对安德森·库珀说些什么。或许在大会演讲稿上抄袭米歇尔·奥巴马的那同一位撰稿人，在对着一个隐蔽的耳机低声讲话。
On the other hand, a political professional probably would not have encouraged Melania Trump to compare her husband to a small boy. “Sometimes I say I have two boys at home — I have my young son and I have my husband,” she said.
另一方面，一位专业的政治人士可能不会鼓励梅拉尼娅·特朗普把自己的丈夫比作一个小男孩。“有时候我会讲，家里有两个男孩——我的小儿子和我丈夫，”她说。
That’s what we need. A little brat in the Oval Office.
让一个小顽童进椭圆形办公室。这正是我们需要的。