CLEVELAND — A longtime employee of the Trump Organization took responsibility for lifting two passages, from a 2008 speech by Michelle Obama, for Melania Trump’s address on Monday at the Republican National Convention, saying that it was an innocent mistake.
克利夫兰——一名长期受雇于特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的员工出面承担罪责，称梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)在周一共和党全国大会上的讲稿中那两个抄袭米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)2008年演讲的片段，属于她的无心之失。
The employee, Meredith McIver, who has worked on some of Mr. Trump’s books, appears to be one of the few people to apologize for an error at any point during the Trump campaign. The New York Times on Tuesday night identified Ms. McIver as playing a role in the speech, although the extent of her involvement was unclear, and the Trump campaign declined to answer questions. Ms. McIver was brought in after Ms. Trump discarded the majority of a draft written by two professional speechwriters.
名为梅雷迪思·麦克艾沃(Meredith McIver)的这名员工参与了特朗普的一些书籍出版的工作。在特朗普竞选总统的整个过程中，她似乎是少数几个为错误道歉的人之一。《纽约时报》周二晚上证实麦克艾沃参与了演讲稿的筹备，不过她参与的程度尚不得而知。特朗普的竞选团队拒绝接受采访。在特朗普夫人否定了由两名专业的演讲稿撰稿人撰写的大部分草稿内容后，麦克艾沃参与了进来。
Ms. McIver identified herself in an unusual statement posted on the Trump campaign’s website, hours after the chief strategist, Paul Manafort, said the issue was manufactured by the news media. And it breathed new life into a story now in its third day.
麦克艾沃在特朗普的竞选网站上发表了一则不同寻常的声明，自称是事件的始作俑者。几个小时前，特朗普团队的首席策略师保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)还称这个问题是新闻媒体炮制出来的。声明为已进入第三天的这件事注入了新的活力。
“In working with Melania on her recent first lady speech, we discussed many people who inspired her and messages she wanted to share with the American people,” Ms. McIver wrote.
“近日在和梅拉尼娅一起创作她的第一夫人讲稿时，我们讨论了很多激励过她的人和她希望与美国人民分享的讯息，”麦克艾沃写道。
“A person she has always liked is Michelle Obama,” she added.
“米歇尔·奥巴马是她一直都喜欢的人之一，”她接着说。
“Over the phone,” Ms. Trump “read me some passages from Mrs. Obama’s speech as examples. I wrote them down and later included some of the phrasing in the draft that ultimately became the final speech. I did not check Mrs. Obama’s speeches. This was my mistake and I feel terrible for the chaos I have caused Melania and the Trumps as well as to Mrs. Obama. No harm was meant.”
“在电话上，”特朗普夫人“给我念了奥巴马夫人的一些演讲段落作为例子。我把它们写了下来，后来把其中一些措辞写进了草稿中。最后，那份草稿成了最终版的演讲稿。我没有核对奥巴马夫人的演讲。这是我的错，对于给梅拉尼娅和特朗普一家，以及奥巴马夫人造成的麻烦，我深表歉意。我并无恶意。”
She said that she had “offered my resignation to Mr. Trump and the Trump family but they rejected it,” and that “Mr. Trump told me that people make innocent mistakes and we learn and grow from these experiences.”
她说自己“向特朗普和特朗普家族提出辞职，但他们拒绝了”，并称“特朗普对我说，人们的确会犯一些无心之过，我们应该从这些经历中吸取教训，不断成长”。
She continued: “I asked to put out the statement because I did not like seeing the way this was distracting from Mr. Trump’s historic campaign for president and Melania’s beautiful message and presentation. I apologize for the confusion and hysteria my mistake has caused. Today, more than ever, I am honored to work for such a great family.”
她接着说：“我要求公布这份声明，因为我希望大家把注意力放在特朗普先生具有历史意义的总统竞选，以及梅拉尼娅的美好讯息和演绎上，不要被这件事分心。我的错误造成了困惑和混乱，对此我深表歉意。能为如此优秀的一家人工作，我感到荣幸，此刻尤其如此。”
The Trump campaign had strongly pushed back on claims that Mr. Manafort and his team were behind the listed passages, which marred Ms. Trump’s first major foray into politics and served as a significant embarrassment. An hour before the statement was released, showing no hint of giving in to critics or conceding a mistake, Mr. Trump accused the news media of holding a microscope to his wife and employed one of his favorite phrases about publicity.
对于抄袭段落是出自马纳福特及其团队手笔的说法，特朗普竞选团队做出了严正驳斥。相关段落破坏了梅拉尼娅在政坛的首次重大亮相，令其极为难堪。在声明公布的前一个小时，没有迹象表明特朗普团队会向批评人士屈服，或是承认出现了错误。特朗普指责新闻媒体拿着显微镜窥探他的生活，并用了他谈到媒体关注时最喜欢说的一句话。
“Good news is Melania’s speech got more publicity than any in the history of politics especially if you believe that all press is good press!” Mr. Trump wrote in one Twitter post.
“好消息是，梅拉尼娅的演讲得到的媒体关注，比政治史上任何演讲都多，尤其是如果你相信，任何报道都是好报道的话！”特朗普在一条推中写道。
In a quick follow-up, he added, “The media is spending more time doing a forensic analysis of Melania’s speech than the F.B.I. spent on Hillary’s emails.”
他很快又接着发了一条，称“媒体对梅拉尼娅的演讲做法证分析的时间，比FBI在希拉里的电子邮件上花的时间都多。”
The investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was the secretary of state lasted nearly a year.
对克林顿在担任国务卿期间使用私人电子邮件服务器一事的调查，持续了近一年。
Mr. Trump’s defense of his wife came as the campaign tried to move beyond questions about how two passages in Ms. Trump’s speech closely mirrored the address by the budding first lady, Mrs. Obama, at the Democratic National Convention in Denver in 2008.
在特朗普为妻子做出这番辩解的同时，其竞选团队试图将这起事件引来的质疑抛诸脑后。人们纷纷在问，为什么特朗普夫人的演讲有两个段落，和当时正在向白宫进发的奥巴马夫人在2008年丹佛民主党大会上的演讲那么接近。
Mr. Trump had stayed silent throughout Tuesday after the speech on Monday night.
在梅拉尼娅周一晚上发表完演讲后，特朗普周二一整天都保持沉默。
Earlier on Wednesday, Mr. Manafort said in televised interviews that it was time to move on. In the past two days he has been adamant that there was no borrowing of language, and that the words in common were familiar phrases.
周三早些时候马纳福特接受电视采访时说，该让这件事过去了。此前两天他一直坚称不存在借用表述的问题，并认为那些相同的用语是人们耳熟能详的措辞。