Hundreds of suspicious packages in Midtown Manhattan were reported to the New York Police Department this year, but its response to one discovered at Trump Tower on Tuesday underscored the challenges and headaches that come with protecting the home of the president-elect.
在曼哈顿中城，今年有数百个可疑包裹被报告给了纽约警察局，但警方对周二在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)发现的一个可疑包裹做出的反应，突显出保护候任总统的住宅所带来的挑战和令人头痛之处。
Though President-elect Donald J. Trump was in Florida during the scare, the package — an abandoned backpack filled with toys — set off an evacuation that sent visitors and employees at the tower running into the streets about 4:30 p.m. and snarled traffic around the Fifth Avenue building.
尽管恐慌发生时，候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)人在佛罗里达，但这个包裹——一个被丢弃的背包，里面都是玩具——导致的疏散行动，使大厦内的访客和员工在下午4点半左右跑到大街上，令这栋位于第五大道的建筑周围的交通乱作一团。
The police blocked off some of New York City’s most glutted arteries at the peak of the holiday season rush hour. The closing lasted just over an hour, but it choked traffic for miles. City buses were diverted, hordes of pedestrians were crammed behind barricades and stores in the area were forced to shut down.
在最为繁忙的假日季交通高峰时刻，警方封锁了纽约市交通压力最大的几条主干道。虽说时间只持续了一个多小时，却导致了数英里的拥堵。公共汽车为此绕道，成群的行人被拦在路障后面，这个区域的店铺被迫关张。
“The current heightened security awareness in this area clearly drew much more attention to yesterday’s incident,” Stephen Davis, a spokesman for the Police Department, said in an email on Wednesday. “This was not a threat or even a mock device but rather an apparent case of a child’s backpack being left inadvertently near the building.”
“目前该地区安全意识的提升显然让昨天的事件吸引了更多关注，”警察局发言人史蒂芬·戴维斯(Stephen Davis)周三在一封邮件中表示。“这不是恐吓，甚至不是假冒的爆炸装置，不过是一个孩子的背包无意间落在了这栋建筑附近。”
In Washington, suspicious packages near the White House have become largely routine, and are rarely disruptive. The Secret Service regularly discovers packages left outside the White House gates, often along Pennsylvania Avenue. There, streams of visitors stop in front of the black iron fence to take pictures of the president’s home, as has occurred along Fifth Avenue, where the tower has become a tourist destination.
在华盛顿，白宫附近出现可疑包裹基本已经成为一种日常，很少引发混乱。特勤局(Secret Service)经常看到留在白宫门外的包裹，一般是在宾夕法尼亚大道上，那里不停地有游客在黑色铁栅栏前停留拍摄总统府。第五大道上也是如此，这里的特朗普大厦已经成为了一个旅游景点。
But that is where the similarities diverge: The 1600 section of Pennsylvania Avenue has been closed to vehicle traffic since 1995. The authorities took that step temporarily in the wake of the Oklahoma City bombing; it was made permanent six years later, after the Sept. 11 attacks. In the rest of the nation’s capital, the discovery of a suspicious package does not usually cause serious traffic issues.
但二者的相似之处也仅限于此：宾夕法尼亚大道1600号附近自1995年就开始禁止车辆通行了。俄克拉何马城爆炸发生后，当局采取了这样的临时措施；六年后9·11袭击发生，它变成了永久性的措施。在美国首都的其他地方，发现一个可疑包裹通常不会引发严重的交通问题。
At Trump Tower, the backpack was found by the Secret Service by the lobby entrance of the Niketown store, where a corridor leads into a public atrium, the authorities said. A rough cordon around the 58-story tower, which sits between 56th and 57th Streets, and its surroundings went into almost immediate play: Both Fifth and Madison Avenues were closed to traffic from 55th to 57th Streets as the investigation unfolded.
当局表示，在特朗普大厦那起事件中，特勤局在耐克城(Niketown)门厅入口处发现了这个背包，那里有一条走廊通向一个公用的中庭。坐落在第56街和第57街之间的这栋58层高的大厦及其周边立即拉起了警戒线：随着调查展开，第五大道和麦迪逊大道从第55街至第57街的区域都禁止通行。
At Obicà, a mozzarella bar inside the atrium that abuts the tower lobby, eight tables of diners evacuated midmeal did not return, according to the manager, and the restaurant joined the growing number of stores unhappy about how the protection efforts, including permanent street closings and police patrols, have hurt business around the tower.
紧挨着大厦大厅、位于中庭的马苏里拉奶酪店欧比卡(Obicà)的经理表示，八桌客人在就餐期间被疏散，之后没有再返回店中。这家店成为日益增多的有不满情绪的店铺之一，他们对包括永久性的道路封锁和警察巡逻在内的保护措施损害大厦附近生意的情况感到不满。
Shortly after the tower reopened about 5:30 p.m., tourists in the pink marble lobby were taking selfies by the escalators, many unaware of the episode — and what had been perhaps the city’s biggest test yet in protecting the soon-to-be president’s penthouse home.
大厦于下午5点半左右重开不久，粉色大理石大厅内有游客在自动扶梯旁自拍，许多人并不知道刚才发生了什么——这有可能是该市在保护这位即将上任的总统的顶层豪华公寓方面截至目前所面临的最大一次考验。
For the city, the police response also highlighted the huge financial cost associated with protecting Trump Tower. When Sean Spicer, Mr. Trump’s newly named press secretary, posted a message of thanks to the Police Department on Twitter after the false alarm, Eric Phillips, a spokesman for Mayor Bill de Blasio, posted a riposte: “We’ll send you the bill.” City officials have requested reimbursement from the federal government for providing security for Mr. Trump, a cost they estimate will reach $35 million by his Jan. 20 inauguration. So far, $7 million has been set aside by federal officials.
对纽约而言，这次警方响应也突显出与保护特朗普大厦有关的巨大财务成本。警报解除后，特朗普新任命的白宫新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)在Twitter上向警察局发了一条信息致谢，纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)的发言人埃里克·菲利普(Eric Phillips)机敏地回应：“我们会给把账单发给你们的。”有市政官员已经要求联邦政府报销给特朗普提供安全保障的支出，据他们估计，至特朗普1月20日正式就职，这笔费用会达到3500万美元。截止目前，联邦官员已经拨出700万美元的资金。
Those inside the tower during the evacuation described a mix of measured and panicked responses. Video captured by a camera crew in the lobby showed parents clinging to their children as they ran across the marble.
疏散行动期间留在大厦内的人描述了或从容或恐慌的反应。大厅内的一个摄制组拍摄的视频显示，有父母紧紧抓着孩子跑过大理石大厅。
A Trump Organization employee who declined to be identified because she was not authorized to speak to the news media said the upper floors had not been evacuated. “If it’s your time, it’s your time,” the employee recalled thinking as an announcement asking for calm and stating that an investigation was underway came over the building’s speakers. “This is the new norm for those that are here now,” she said.
一名特朗普集团(Trump Organization)员工表示，最高的几个楼层没有被疏散。因为没有被授权向新闻媒体谈论此事，她拒绝透露自己的名字。“该来的就来吧，”在大厦的扬声器传出声音，要求大家保持冷静，并表示正在展开调查时，这名员工记得自己当时这么想道。“对这里的人来说，这是现在的新常态了，”她说。