It’s no secret that President Trump prefers tweeting over talking to the public — particularly when nearly everyone else in the country is fast asleep. Monday mornings are bad enough for everyone; pity the administration lawyers and aides who woke up today to find that their boss had undone months of their efforts to get his executive order barring travel to the United States from a number of Muslim-majority countries through the Supreme Court.
众所周知，相比于对公众讲话，特朗普总统更喜欢发推——尤其是在全国几乎所有人都正昏睡着的时候。周一早上大家本来就不好过；可怜的政府律师和助手们，他们大早上起来就发现自己的老板毁掉了他们数月来的努力，即让他提出的一项行政命令得到最高法院的认可，该政令禁止多个以穆斯林为主的国家的公民进入美国。
Both his press secretary and Homeland Security secretary have insisted the revised order is “not a travel ban.” Early this morning, the president begged to differ.
之前，他的新闻秘书和国土安全部长都坚称，修订后的政令已经“不是旅行禁令”。今天一大早，总统却提出了异议。
People, the lawyers and the courts can call it whatever they want, but I am calling it what we need and what it is, a TRAVEL BAN!
无论律师、法院还是什么人，想叫什么都行，但我会说，它是我们需要的，是什么就叫什么，那就是旅行禁令！
He went on to slam the “watered down, politically correct” version of the order that his lawyers are hoping the court will accept, tweeting:
接着，他又猛烈抨击了他的律师们期待法院能接受的“打折的、政治正确”版的政令，发推文称：
The Justice Dept. should have stayed with the original Travel Ban, not the watered down, politically correct version they submitted to S.C.
司法部应该坚持原来的旅行禁令，而不是他们提交给最高法院的这个打折的、政治正确的版本。
There’s a pattern here. A quick look at Mr. Trump’s Twitter archive shows that some of his angriest and most flamboyant accusations are issued early in the morning. For example, on May 16, he offered a questionable defense against charges that he’d shared with the Russians sensitive information from an ally about the Islamic State, insisting that he had the “absolute right” to do so:
这里是有规律的。快速浏览特朗普的Twitter档案，就可以发现，他的一些最愤怒和最引人注目的指控，基本都是在早上发出的。比如，在被指把盟友那里获得的有关伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的敏感信息分享给俄罗斯后，他在5月16日进行了值得商榷的辩护，还坚称他有这么做的“绝对权利”：
As President I wanted to share with Russia (at an openly scheduled W.H. meeting) which I have the absolute right to do, facts pertaining....
作为总统，我想（在一场公开安排的白宫会议上）跟俄罗斯分享，我有这么做的绝对权利，有关的事实……
A few days later, he whined about the appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel for the F.B.I. investigation into ties between members of the Trump team and Russia:
几天后，他又发牢骚抱怨司法部任命罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)担任特别检察官，负责领导联邦调查局(FBI)对特朗普团队和俄罗斯关系的调查：
With all of the illegal acts that took place in the Clinton campaign & Obama Administration, there was never a special counsel appointed!
克林顿竞选团队和奥巴马政府做了那么多非法的事，却不见任命过一个特别检察官！
This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history!
这是美国历史上对一名政治人物实施的最严重的政治迫害！
Not that he would listen, but someone on his staff should tell him that the early morning is not his friend.
听不听倒在其次，但特朗普的幕僚中真的有人应该告诉他，早上不是他说话的好时候。
Like most aspects of human biology, cognitive function has peaks and valleys that follow the day-night cycle. Studies show that alertness, cognitive speed, memory and abstract reasoning are worst around when a person typically wakes up, and best a few hours before he habitually falls asleep.
和人类生理的诸多方面一样，认知功能也会随日夜更替出现高低变化。研究显示，警觉性、认知速度、记忆和抽象推理能力在一个人通常要醒来的时间前后往往是最差的，而在通常入眠时间的前几小时则是最佳的。
So for most people, the middle of the night and the very early morning are not great times to make decisions, to say nothing of making policy pronouncements or political commentary. At those times, you are likely to be close to so-called REM or dream sleep, which we all know brings about intense and often distorted emotions and thoughts, often about the events in our everyday lives. These are times for reflection, not for social media.
所以对大多数人来说，半夜和大清早都不是做决定的好时机，更不用说发出政策声明或政治评论。在这些时段，你有可能比较接近所谓的眼部急速活动(REM)或做梦睡眠状态。我们都知道，这种状态会产生强烈且通常是扭曲的情绪与想法，它们往往与我们日常生活中的事情有关。这些时段适合沉思，而不是在社交媒体上发消息。
Not surprisingly, the president makes his sleeping habits, like so much else, a point of pride, bragging about his allegedly Spartan need for slumber. “You know, I’m not a big sleeper, I like three hours, four hours, I toss, I turn, I beep-de-beep, I want to find out what’s going on,” he told the Chicago Tribune.
不足为奇的是，总统把自己的睡眠习惯——和其他许许多多习惯一样——当成一个值得骄傲的地方，吹嘘他的睡眠需求何其之少。“要知道，我不喜欢睡大觉，睡三四个小时，我就辗转反侧，就叮叮咣咣，我想知道发生了什么，”他曾在接受《芝加哥论坛报》(Chicago Tribune)采访时这样讲到。
Whether the president actually gets as little sleep as he claims is open to question. But if true, it certainly isn’t helping with his famously irascible behavior and impulsive decision-making style.
总统的睡眠时间是否真的像他说的那么少，还是值得怀疑的。但如果真是如此，这显然对他极其易怒的行为和冲动决策的风格没什么帮助。
Might we have a sleep-deprived occupant in the White House? Quite possibly — and that’s something that should worry us, because it could contribute to the political chaos that Mr. Trump generates.
我们是把一个睡眠严重不足的人送进了白宫吗？很有可能——我们应该为此感到担心，因为特朗普制造的政治混乱有一部分可能就是这一点造成的。
Sleep deprivation can impair attention, memory, thinking speed and reasoning. This is something that all physicians know firsthand from their days of residency training, when they spent many sleepless nights on-call.
睡眠剥夺会损害注意力、记忆、思考速度和推理能力。这是所有的心理医生在住院医师培训期间就从亲身体会中知道的事，当时他们度过了许多个随时待命的不眠之夜。
For example, studies show that medical residents who slept less than five hours a night were much more likely to make medical errors and report serious accidents. They were also more prone to get into arguments with colleagues and to drink alcohol. Indeed, last year researchers estimated that medical errors may cause more than 250,000 deaths a year. Some of these surely originate with sleep-deprived doctors.
比如，有研究显示，每晚睡眠不足五小时的住院医师出现医疗差错和造成严重事故的几率会大得多。他们也更容易与同事产生争执，容易喝酒。实际上，据研究人员去年估计，一年有超过25万人死于医疗差错。其中有些肯定是由严重缺乏睡眠的医生造成的。
This, in large part, is the reason that we strictly limit the number of consecutive hours that trainees can work: to protect both patients and doctors from tragic errors.
这在很大程度上正是我们严格限制受训者连续工作时长的原因：既是为了保护病人，也是为了避免医生犯下悲剧性的错误。
The president is under no comparable restriction, but perhaps he should be. After all, the stakes in the White House are considerably higher than in a medical office. One patient death from medical error is bad enough, but imagine the incalculable harm a sleep-deprived, irritable and impulsive president with access to the nuclear codes could wreak.
总统没有类似的限制，但或许应该给他施加这样的限制。毕竟，白宫承担的风险比一个医务室大多了。因为医学差错导致一个病人死亡已经够糟的了，但你想像一下一个手握核武器密码、睡眠严重不足、易怒和冲动的总统可以造成的无法估量的危害。
So I have a bit of unsolicited medical advice for President Trump: For the sake of the nation, stop tweeting and go back to bed.
所以，我们想主动给特朗普总统提一点医学建议：为了这个国家的利益考虑，不要再发推了，回去睡觉吧。