It was the low point for a campaign that had been in steady decline for weeks.
经过连续数周的下滑后，那是竞选中的一个最低点。
Less than 24 hours earlier, an 11-year-old recording of Donald Trump boasting about forcing himself on women had surfaced and gone viral. Now, on a Saturday morning in October, his closest advisers had assembled in his Trump Tower apartment to discuss what to do.
不到24小时前，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)11年前夸耀自己调戏女性的录音被曝出，遭到疯狂转发。而此刻，10月一个周六的上午，他最器重的顾问们聚集在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)他的公寓里，讨论如何应对。
The group included a handful of seasoned politicians and Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, an Orthodox Jew who ordinarily observes the Sabbath strictly.
这个团队包括少数几名资深政客和特朗普的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)。后者是一名正统犹太人，通常严格遵守安息日教规。
While the others — Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Rudy Giuliani, Reince Priebus — emphasized the gravity of the situation, urging Trump to express contrition, Kushner reminded him of what he had built. Amid the discussions, the Republican candidate briefly went down to greet 100 or so supporters gathered in front of the building.
虽然其他人——包括新泽西州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)、鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)和雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)——强调事态的严重性，敦促特朗普表示悔悟，但库什纳提醒他想想自己已经取得的成就。在讨论中，这位共和党候选人短暂离开，到楼下招呼大楼前聚集的约100名支持者。
“There’s 2,500 people down there,” Trump told his advisers when he returned.
“下面有2500人，”特朗普回来后对顾问们说。
“Those are the people who are going to elect you president,” Kushner replied, opting not to correct the candidate’s crowd estimate. “Don’t worry about the other people.”
“他们是打算选你当总统的人，”库什纳回应说。他决定不纠正这位候选人对人数的估计。“不要担心其他人。”
In the chaos that often seems to surround Trump — the churn of advisers, the Twitter wars with reporters, the daily uncertainty over who is making decisions — Kushner has emerged as the closest thing to a steadying influence, injecting optimism, playing down controversies and reinforcing Trump’s perceptions, worldview and instincts.
特朗普似乎一直处于混乱之中——顾问团队的人员变动，在Twitter上与记者们争论，每天都要面对该由谁来拿主意的不确定性——但库什纳的影响力几乎一直存在，他不断注入乐观精神，平息争议，巩固特朗普的看法、世界观和直觉。
In an ever-shifting organization chart of friends and advisers, Kushner, 35, has been the lone constant. Raised by one family that prizes loyalty above all else, he married into another. And he is well acquainted with Trump’s personality type, with his own father a volatile real estate magnate.
在不断变化的朋友和顾问团队中，35岁的库什纳是唯一一个不变的存在。他在一个视忠诚高于一切的家庭长大，但他通过婚姻进入了另一个家庭。他非常熟悉特朗普的个性，而他自己的父亲则是一名变化无常的房地产大亨。
Now, there is talk of his following Trump into the White House. What some may see as Kushner’s greatest liabilities as an adviser — his lack of political experience, policy expertise or familiarity with the ways of Washington — the president-elect views as his greatest strength: a single-minded devotion without a competing agenda.
现在，据说他将跟随特朗普进入白宫。库什纳作为顾问最大的缺点——缺乏政治经验和政策知识，不熟悉华盛顿的运作——在这位候任总统看来，是他最大的优势：全心全意投入，没有其他目的。
“Everyone else has their own constituencies, but Jared is just there to protect the interests of the president,” said Thomas Barrack Jr., a longtime friend of Trump’s who is heading up the inaugural committee.
“其他人都有自己的选民阵营，但贾里德只是在那里保护总统的利益，”特朗普的老朋友、就职委员会主任小托马斯·巴拉克(Thomas Barrack Jr.)说。
It is not clear exactly how Kushner, who is married to Trump’s elder daughter, Ivanka, might be deployed. He is exploring the prospects of joining the administration as a formal, but unpaid, adviser. Anti-nepotism statutes prohibit close relatives of the president from playing an active role in the government, but at the same time, the Constitution gives the president broad authority to choose his own advisers. If the Trump administration presses ahead with a Kushner appointment, the matter could wind up in court.
库什纳是特朗普大女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)的丈夫，尚不清楚会给他安排什么职位。他在寻求以不受薪的正式顾问身份加入特朗普政府。反裙带关系法禁止总统的亲属在政府中扮演重要角色，但与此同时，在选择自己的顾问方面，宪法向总统赋予了很大的自由度。如果特朗普政府坚决要任命库什纳，那么此事可能要诉诸法院。
Whatever role Kushner may play in the administration, he has already had a hand in helping assemble it. Both of Trump’s most senior advisers, Priebus, his new chief of staff, and Stephen Bannon, his chief strategist, seek Kushner’s advice routinely, considering his buy-in almost a prerequisite for their proposals to Trump, two senior Trump officials said. (In deference to Kushner, the transition team delayed announcing the two men’s appointment until after the Jewish sabbath last weekend.)
不管库什纳可能会在政府中扮演何种角色，他已经在参与政府的组建。特朗普的两名高级官员称，特朗普级别最高的两名顾问——新任幕僚长普利巴斯和首席策略师斯蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)——经常征求库什纳的意见，他们认为他的点头几乎是向特朗普提出建议的先决条件（为了遵从库什纳的习惯，该过渡团队直到上周末犹太安息日过后才宣布两人的任命）。
“Jared has the trust, confidence and ear of the entire inner circle of the Trump administration, including the most important member of that group, the president-elect,” said Matthew Brooks, executive director of the Republican Jewish Coalition. He described Kushner as “one of the most important players right now beyond the president- and vice president-elect.”
“特朗普政府的整个内部圈子信任、听从贾里德，包括该团队最重要的成员——候任总统本人，”犹太共和党人联盟(Republican Jewish Coalition)的执行主任马修·布鲁克斯(Matthew Brooks)说。他认为，库什纳“目前是除候任总统和副总统之外最重要的参与者之一”。
Inside the Trump operation, he is known as the staunchest defender of Trump’s judgment. When Bannon was recently accused of anti-Semitism and of promoting white supremacist views and conspiracy theories, Kushner reassured the Trump team. He called Bannon a man of character and said the widespread criticism was a smear, according to a senior Republican official, speaking about private discussions on the condition of anonymity.
在特朗普团队内部，他被认为是特朗普的决策的最坚定捍卫者。前不久，班农被指责倡导反犹太主义、白人至上主义和阴谋论时，库什纳安抚了特朗普团队。一名共和党高官在匿名情况下提到一些私下的交谈，他说库什纳认为班农是一个有道德的人，说那些广泛散布的批评是诬蔑。
While Kushner kept himself out of the spotlight throughout the campaign, he has been more visible since the election, walking the White House grounds during Trump’s recent meeting with President Barack Obama and accompanying the president-elect at a meeting at Trump Tower on Thursday night with the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe.
在整个竞选期间，库什纳都避开媒体的聚光灯。大选获胜后，他开始更多地抛头露面。前不久，特朗普与贝拉克·奥巴马总统会面时，他一同在白宫的庭院里漫步。周四晚上，他陪同这位候任总统在特朗普大厦与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)会面。
Kushner declined to be interviewed for this article. Although he is a newspaper owner and publisher, he has not been quoted in the media since the start of the campaign.
库什纳拒绝就本文接受采访。虽然他是一名报纸所有人兼出版人，但从竞选之初起，他从未接受过媒体采访。
Before that, Kushner did not have much of a public political identity, but appeared to lean left. He was raised in a Democratic household, and several years ago, he and his wife hosted a fundraiser in their Park Avenue penthouse for Cory Booker, the Democratic senator from New Jersey and former Newark mayor, who has become a vocal critic of Trump.
之前，库什纳几乎没有公开的政治身份，不过似乎是有左翼倾向的。他在一个民主党家庭长大，几年前他和妻子在公园大道的顶层公寓为新泽西州民主党参议员、前纽瓦克市长科里·布克(Cory Booker)举办筹款会，后者后来成为特朗普的强烈批评者。
They also once hosted a fundraising breakfast for another Democrat, Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general of New York, who sued Trump University for allegedly defrauding students. (The lawsuit was one of a series brought against the program that were settled Friday for $25 million.)
他们还曾为另一位民主党人、纽约州检察长埃里克·T·施耐德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)举办过一次筹款早餐会。后者曾起诉特朗普大学(Trump University)诈骗学生（这是该学校遭到的系列诉讼之一，相关诉讼周五以2500万美元和解）。
The couple moves in a predominantly liberal Manhattan circle. “Their social politics seem more what I would expect from New Yorkers of their generation,” said Adam Silver, the NBA commissioner and a friend of Kushner’s who has frequently contributed to Democrats.
这对夫妻搬进以自由派为主的曼哈顿圈子。“他们的社会政治倾向似乎更多地属于他们那一代纽约人，”NBA总裁萧华(Adam Silver)说。他是库什纳家族的一位朋友，经常给民主党人捐款。
Some New York business leaders, who had recoiled at Trump’s candidacy, say privately that they are hoping Kushner will be a moderating influence on the new president. But it remains to be seen how receptive he will be to their concerns. Trump officials say that Kushner underwent an ideological conversion over the course of the campaign, and that he was particularly affected by the experience of wading into the crowds at Trump rallies.
纽约的一些商界领袖曾对特朗普成为候选人感到恐惧。他们私下里希望库什纳能对新总统起到节制作用。不过，他们的关切能被库什纳接受多少，仍需拭目以待。特朗普的官员们称，库什纳在竞选过程中经历了思想上的转变，尤其是在特朗普集会上挤入人群的经历对他产生了深刻影响。
Though he is not particularly bookish, Kushner is an admirer of “The Count of Monte Cristo,” the story of an innocent man seeking vengeance against people who have wronged him. It is a story that feels particularly resonant now: In recent weeks, Kushner has been able to exact a measure of revenge against his own family’s nemesis, Christie.
虽然库什纳不是书呆子，但他非常喜欢《基督山伯爵》(The Count of Monte Cristo)。故事讲述的是一个无辜的人试图报复那些陷害他的人。如今这个故事显得尤为应景：最近几周，库什纳得以报复自己家族的头号敌人克里斯蒂。
During the campaign, Kushner opposed Christie’s appointment to oversee the transition team, but Trump overruled him, aides have said. This past week, however, Kushner helped push Christie out.
助手们称，在竞选中，库什纳曾反对任命克里斯蒂监管过渡团队，但特朗普没有听从他的意见。不过，在过去一周里，库什纳参与了把克里斯蒂踢出局的行动。
Their history dates to 2005, when Christie, then the U.S. attorney forNew Jersey, sent Kushner’s father, Charles, to federal prison for tax evasion, witness tampering and illegal campaign donations. The case involved a tawdry family feud: At one point, Charles Kushner sought to blackmail his brother-in-law, who was cooperating with federal authorities, by hiring a woman to seduce him and videotape the encounter.
他们的过节可以追溯到2005年，时任新泽西州联邦检察官的克里斯蒂以逃税、干扰证人和非法竞选捐款的罪名把库什纳的父亲查尔斯(Charles)送进了联邦监狱。该案涉及一桩肮脏的家庭夙怨：查尔斯·库什纳曾试图勒索与联邦当局合作的妹夫，雇佣一名女子引诱他，并录下两人的会面场面。
Like Trump’s children, Kushner was raised in a privileged environment. He went to a private Jewish school in Livingston, New Jersey, and attended Harvard after his parents pledged a $2.5 million gift to the university. Later, he got a joint MBA and law degree from New York University.
和特朗普的孩子们一样，库什纳在优越的环境中长大。他曾在新泽西州利文斯顿一家犹太私立学校上学。在父母承诺向哈佛大学(Harvard)捐款250万美元后，他进了哈佛。后来，他在纽约大学(New York University)获得MBA和法律双学位。
His wife described him as a “great New Jersey boy,” in a Vogue magazine interview last year. When the couple were married at a Trump golf course in 2009, guests were given white flip-flops with the words “Jared” and “Ivanka” on the insoles and a tag reading, “A Great Pair.”
去年，他的妻子在接受《Vogue》杂志采访时说，他是一个“了不起的新泽西男孩”。2009年，两人在特朗普的一个高尔夫球场结婚，宾客们获赠白色人字拖，内底上写着“贾里德”和“伊万卡”，标签上写着“完美的一对”。