WASHINGTON — President Trump, signaling a potential major shift in policy, told news anchors on Tuesday that he is open to a broad immigration overhaul that would grant legal status to millions of undocumented immigrants who have not committed serious crimes.
华盛顿——特朗普总统周二告诉新闻主播，他对移民政策进行广泛改革保持开放态度，这可能会给数以百万计的没有犯下严重罪行的无证移民赋予法律地位。这显示他的政策可能会出现重大转变。
“The time is right for an immigration bill as long as there is compromise on both sides,” the president told the TV anchors at the White House, according to people present during the discussion. The people requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak about the private meeting.
了解当时情况的人说，特朗普在白宫对新闻主持人表示，“现在是时候推出一项移民法案了，只要双方都做出妥协。”这些人要求匿名，因为没有获得谈论私人会议的授权。
The idea is a sharp break from the broad crackdown on undocumented immigrants that Mr. Trump has taken in his first weeks in office and the hardline positions embraced by his core supporters that helped sweep him into the White House. The president hinted at the reversal just hours before he was to deliver his first address to Congress, although it was not clear whether he would mention it in his speech.
这与特朗普在入主白宫的最初几周里，主张对无证移民进行广泛打压的立场截然不同，他的强硬立场得到了帮助他进入白宫的铁杆支持者的热情接受。就在他第一次在国会发表讲话的数小时之前，特朗普暗示会进行这种逆转，虽然不清楚他是否会在国会的讲话中提到这一点。
A move toward a comprehensive immigration overhaul would be a dramatic turnaround for the president, whose campaign rallies rang with shouts of “build the wall!” on the Mexican border and who signed an executive order last month directing the deportation of any undocumented immigrant who has committed a crime — whether or not they have been charged — or falsified any document. The standard could apply to virtually any one of the estimated 11 million people in the country illegally.
对于特朗普来说，进行全面的移民改革将会是一个戏剧性的转变，之前他的竞选集会上充满要在墨西哥边境“修建隔离墙”的口号，上个月他还签署了一道行政命令，要求驱逐伪造过身份文件或者犯过罪的无证移民——无论他们是否遭到过起诉。估计美国有1100万人适用于这个标准。
The White House did not dispute the report, but Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the deputy press secretary, said she had not witnessed the conversation so was unable to confirm it.
白宫没有对这个报道提出异议，但是副发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)表示她当时不在场，因此无法确认这次谈话。
“The president has been very clear in his process that the immigration system is broken and needs massive reform, and he’s made clear that he’s open to having converations about that moving forward,” Ms. Sanders said. “Right now, his primary focus, as he has made over and over again is border control and security at the border and deporting criminals from our country, and keeping our country safe, and those priorities have not changed.”
“总统对这个过程非常清楚：移民制度问题很大，需要大规模的改革。他已经明确表示过，他就推进其进程展开对话持开放心态。”桑德斯说：“他已经再三重申，目前他的主要焦点就是在边境上进行广泛的控制、保证安全，把犯罪分子从我们国家赶出去，确保国家安全，这些优先事项并没有改变。”
The president’s remarks about immigration came the day before Mr. Trump was to issue a new version his executive order banning travel to the United States from seven predominantly Muslim countries and suspending the acceptance of refugees. The ban has been revised because of legal challenges.
特朗普发表这番关于移民言论的第二天，将会发布一道经过修订的行政命令，阻止七个主要的穆斯林国家的人前往美国，并且暂停接受难民。之前由于受到法律挑战，禁令进行了修订。