WASHINGTON — Jared Kushner, the son-in-law of President-elect Donald Trump, has consulted with lawyers about the possibility of joining the new administration, a move that could run afoul of federal nepotism laws and would all but certainly invite legal challenges.
华盛顿――候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)已经向律师咨询过自己是否可以加入新政府，这一举动可能同防止裙带关系的联邦法律有所冲突，并且肯定会引起法律方面的挑战。
Kushner, 35, had been planning to return to his private businesses after Election Day. But on the morning after Trump won, he began discussing a role in the White House, according to two people briefed on his discussions, who requested anonymity to describe his thinking.
35岁的库什纳原本计划在选举日之后便回归自己的的私人企业。但是在特朗普获胜后的第一个上午，他便开始讨论自己在白宫的位置，对库什纳想法的描述来自两个要求匿名的知情者。
Trump is urging him to join, according to one of the people briefed, a sentiment shared by Stephen K. Bannon, the chief strategist for the White House, and Reince Priebus, who was named chief of staff.
特朗普敦促他加入政府，据一位参与讨论的人说，白宫首席战略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)和被任命为幕僚长的雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)也有此意。
Kushner has consulted with at least one lawyer and believes that by forgoing a salary and putting his investment fund, his real estate holdings and his newspaper, The New York Observer, into a blind trust, he would not be bound by federal nepotism rules, according to one of the people briefed.
库什纳已经咨询了至少一名律师，他确信，通过放弃薪水、把自己的投资基金，房地产资产和他的报纸《纽约观察家》(The New York Observer)进行保密信托管理，他就可以不受到防止裙带关系的联邦规则约束，一名知情者说。
Still, it is not clear that such an arrangement would be legal. Under federal statute, the president cannot accept voluntary services that are not permitted by law, and a separate statute bars public officials from employing family members in any capacity.
不过，这种安排是否合法尚不明确。根据联邦法规，总统不能接受法律不许可的志愿服务，另一项独立的法规禁止公职人员雇用家庭成员担任任何职务。
Those discussions were disclosed as Trump’s transition pivoted on Thursday, trying to leave behind the disarray of its first week for an accelerated schedule of official meetings, including Trump’s first face-to-face meeting with a world leader, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan.
就在特朗普的过渡团队在周四开始有所转变之际，这些讨论被公之于众。该团队试图摆脱当选后第一周的混乱状态，加速安排各种正式会议，其中包括与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的会晤，这是特朗普首次与世界领导人进行面对面的交谈。
Later Thursday, Trump’s team planned to announce the officials who will coordinate the handoff at the crucial national security agencies, as well as at the Justice Department. These so-called landing teams will make contact with the Pentagon and the State Department and begin the transfer of control to the new administration.
星期四晚些时候，特朗普的团队计划宣布负责在重要国家安全机构与司法部协调交接的官员。这些所谓的“登陆团队”会与五角大楼和国务院进行接触，开始将控制权移交给新政府。
Trump, who has continued to work out of his office in Trump Tower, was scheduled to receive a stream of visitors on Thursday, including Henry A. Kissinger, a former secretary of state; Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who has emerged as a candidate for secretary of state; and Adm. Michael S. Rogers, director of the National Security Agency and the top officer at the military’s Cyber Command.
特朗普目前继续在特朗普大厦的办公室工作，计划在周四接待一批访客，包括前任国务卿亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)、南卡罗来纳州州长，已成为国务卿候选人之一的尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)，以及国家安全局局长兼美军网络司令部司令迈克尔·S·罗杰斯(Michael S. Rogers)上将。