Republican electors in Texas vaulted Mr. Trump past the 270 mark, granting him all but two of their 38 ballots in a ceremony in the State Capitol in Austin.
参加仪式性投票的德克萨斯州共和党选举人，在位于奥斯汀的州议会大厦内将38票中的36票投给了特朗普，至此，后者得到的选举人票数超过了270票。
In the House chamber, where the electors met, the vote was greeted with a standing ovation by citizens and Republican officials who had come to witness the event. Outside, perhaps 100 protesters waved placards and chanted “Save our democracy” in a vain effort to persuade electors to reject the Republican nominee.
在选举人汇聚一堂的议会大厦里，前来见证这一刻的公众和共和党官员为表决结果起立喝彩。大厦外，约100名抗议者挥舞着标语牌，高呼“拯救我们的民主”，徒劳地想要说服选举人拒绝接纳这位共和党总统候选人。
Normally a political footnote, the electoral vote acquired an unexpected element of drama this winter after Mr. Trump’s upset of Hillary Clinton, who received 2.86 million more popular votes but won in states that totaled only 232 electoral votes. The states Mr. Trump won held 306 electoral votes.
在特朗普击败希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)之后，通常只是政治注脚的选举人投票在这个冬天具有了某种出人意料的戏剧性因素。克林顿以286万票的优势赢得普选，但她拿下的各州总共只有232张选举人票。特朗普拿下的各州则持有306张选举人票。
His electoral victory spawned a determined effort to block his path to the presidency by grass-roots advocates who saw him as unfit for the White House and by some who saw him as a threat to the political system.
他胜选后，那些觉得他不适合入主白宫的草根倡议者，以及某些认为他会对当前的政治体制造成威胁的人士，发起了一场坚决阻止他登上总统宝座的运动。
Presidential electors — and particularly Republican electors, who are bound by tradition and often state law to support Mr. Trump — were inundated with phone calls, emails and even threats demanding that they vote for someone else. Leaders of groups that were lobbying the electors had privately believed they had a chance to persuade enough Republican electors to defect, denying him an Electoral College majority and throwing the election to the House of Representatives. But by late Monday, only a handful of electors had broken ranks.
总统选举人——尤其是受到传统以及常常是本州法律的制约，需要支持特朗普的共和党选举人——遭到要求其投票给其他人的电话、电子邮件乃至威胁的狂轰滥炸。对选举人进行游说的一些团体的领导者曾在私下里认为，他们有机会说服足够多的共和党选举人叛变，使他无法获得选举人团的多数票，从而让众议院去选出总统。但截至周一深夜，只有少数几名选举人打破常规。
While Mr. Trump’s opponents needed 37 Republican defectors to bring his electoral-vote tally below 270, the bulk of electors who broke ranks — four in Washington State — were Democrats who otherwise would have voted for Ms. Clinton. Instead, they voted for the former Republican secretary of state Colin L. Powell and Faith Spotted Eagle, a Native American tribal leader who has led opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline.
要让特朗普获得的选举人票数低于270票，其反对者需要说服37名共和党选举人背弃他。然而，大多数打破常规的选举人——在华盛顿州共有4名——都是本应投票给克林顿的民主党人。他们把票投给了出身于共和党的前国务卿科林·L·鲍威尔(Colin L. Powell)，以及牵头反对Keystone XL输油管道工程的美国土著部落首领信念斑雕(Faith Spotted Eagle)。
Elsewhere, Democratic electors who sought to vote for someone besides Mrs. Clinton switched back to her under pressure or were replaced with Clinton supporters.
在其他一些地方，寻求投票给克林顿以外的某个人的民主党选举人，或迫于压力重新站到她这边，或被克林顿的支持者替代。
In Texas, two Republican electors cast protest votes, one each for Ron Paul and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio. One other Republican opposed to Mr. Trump resigned and was replaced.
在德克萨斯州，两名共和党选举人投出了表示抗议的选票，一票投给罗恩·保罗(Ron Paul)，另一票投给俄亥俄州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)。还有一名反对特朗普的共和党选举人辞了职，被其他人取而代之。