For hours on Friday night, the political world waited for the rarest of expressions from Donald J. Trump — a heartfelt apology.
周五晚上的许多个小时里，关注政治的人们都在等待来自唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的最为罕见的表达——一个诚心诚意的道歉。
What viewers got was anything but.
围观者等到的东西却没有一丝诚意。
During a 90-second videotaped appearance, Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, offered a strikingly brief articulation of regret for a decade-old audiotape in which he boasted about grabbing women’s genitals and said he could have his way with women because of his fame.
获得共和党总统提名的特朗普在时长为90秒的视频中露面，以惊人的简洁度，就十年前的一段录音表达了悔意。他在录音里夸耀抓女人下体的经历，还自称因为足够有名，可以对女人为所欲为。
But his real message, which appeared early Saturday, was one of defiance. He described the controversy that upended the Republican Party for most of Friday as a mere “distraction,” and said that his vulgar remarks captured on the tape were nothing compared with the way Bill and Hillary Clinton had mistreated women.
但他周六早上传达的真正信息，其实是另一种形式的轻蔑。他把让共和党在周五的大部分时间里坐立不安的争议事件描绘为“让人分心的东西”；还说自己被录了音的下流言辞和比尔和希拉里·克林顿(Bill and Hillary Clinton)凌辱女性的方式比起来不值一提。
If anything, Mr. Trump’s videotaped statement was a truncated version of a speech that he had given countless times. And it did not reflect the several hours of conference calls and strategy meetings among his top aides, who were at first stunned and then nearly paralyzed by the revelation of the tape, which they worried would be fatal to his White House hopes.
真要说的话，特朗普的视频声明只不过是他发表过的若干场演讲的删减版。它不像是他的高级助理花了许多小时开电话会议和战略会议之后弄出来的东西。那段录音曝光后，助理们先是震惊，然后几乎茫然无措，他们担心录音会让他的白宫梦成为泡影。
“That took 10 hours?” an incredulous Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist, asked on CNN immediately after the statement.
“花整整10个小时就弄出这个？”上述声明出炉后，感到难以置信的共和党策略师凯文·马登(Kevin Madden)立马在CNN的节目中发问。
With his brow furrowed and his face a tight scowl, Mr. Trump sat hunched in a chair inside Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, with the glittering nighttime New York City skyline behind him.
视频中，眉头紧锁、面沉似水的特朗普弓着背坐在一把椅子上。他身处位于第五大道的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)内，背后的夜色中，纽约城的天际线熠熠生辉。
“I’ve never said I’m a perfect person, nor pretended to be someone that I’m not,” said Mr. Trump, a 70-year-old real estate developer and former reality television star.
“我从未说过自己是完人，也没有假装成非我本性的样子，” 现年70岁的房地产开发商和前电视真人秀明星特朗普说道。
Then came the apologetic part.
接下来是道歉的部分。
“I’ve said and done things I regret, and the words released today on this more-than-a-decade-old video are one of them,” Mr. Trump said of the hot-mike recording of him bragging to Billy Bush, then the host of NBC’s “Access Hollywood,” about his groping and uninvited kissing of women.
“我对自己的一些言行感到后悔，其中包括在今天被公诸于众的这段十多年前的视频中讲的话，”特朗普指的是他向NBC《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)节目时任主持人比利·布什(Billy Bush)夸耀对女性动手动脚及强吻女性的经历时，被未关闭的麦克风录下来的言辞。
“Anyone who knows me knows these words don’t reflect who I am,” Mr. Trump continued.
“了解我的人都知道这些话并不能反映我是个什么样的人，”特朗普继续说道。
“I said it, I was wrong, and I apologize,” he said.
“话是我说的，我错了，我道歉，”他说。
Oddly, Mr. Trump seemed to frame his comments not as sincere concern about those he may have hurt or offended, but as part of his own journey, describing his growth as a person and how humbling it has been for him to campaign across the nation and learn of other people’s worries and travails.
诡异的是，在特朗普口中，他那些言辞似乎并非会给他可能伤害到或冒犯到的人造成困扰的东西，而是他人生旅程的一部分，他讲述了个人的成长，以及前往美国各地参加竞选活动、了解他人疾苦，对他具有多么大的教育意义。
“I’ve traveled the country talking about change for America, but my travels have also changed me,” he said, describing meeting mothers who have lost children and people who have lost their jobs.
“我游走于美国各地，谈论着改变这个国家，但这些旅程也让我发生了变化，”他说自己曾与失去孩子的母亲及失去工作的人们会面。
“I pledge to be a better man tomorrow and will never, ever let you down,” Mr. Trump said.
“我承诺，明天的我会是更好的我，我永远都不会让你们失望，”特朗普说。
Grudging though they seemed, Mr. Trump’s comments were a marked departure from his lifelong resistance to any admission of fault. Mr. Trump values strength and power and disparages weakness. His usual response, when criticized or hurt, has been to counterpunch forcefully.
尽管听起来很勉强，但特朗普的这些话的确明显偏离了他这辈子恪守的绝不认错的原则。特朗普看重力量和权力，厌弃软弱。遭到批评或受到伤害时，他通常的反应是猛烈回击。
Before the release of the short statement, advisers to Mr. Trump had huddled with him at Trump Tower, along with his daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner, to discuss how to respond to the crisis. The advisers cautioned against holding a news conference, something that had been discussed, because it could become unwieldy and spin out of his control. They realized they needed to address the issue quickly, at a minimum to try to stop the defections of Republican officials who had begun to shun and loudly denounce him.
这则简短的声明发布前，特朗普的顾问和特朗普本人及其女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)、女婿贾德·库斯纳(Jared Kushner)聚在特朗普大厦内，商量如何应对这一危机。顾问们警告说，不应召开此前讨论过的新闻发布会，因为可能会弄巧成拙，让事态的发展超出他的控制。他们意识到必须迅速应对这一议题，至少要竭力阻止一些共和党官员倒戈，那些人已经开始避开他，并高声谴责他。
But one adviser to Mr. Trump cautioned before the statement that if the candidate mentioned Mrs. Clinton, it would fail.
不过一个顾问在声明出炉前警告过特朗普，如果提到克林顿，那这个声明就没什么用了。
Mr. Trump did just that.
特朗普偏偏这样做了。
“Hillary Clinton and her kind have run our country into the ground,” Mr. Trump said. “I’ve said some foolish things, but there’s a big difference between the words and actions of other people. Bill Clinton has actually abused women, and Hillary has bullied, attacked, shamed and intimidated his victims.”
“希拉里·克林顿及其同类让我们的国家举步维艰，”特朗普说。“我说了些蠢话，但那和其他人的言行有着天壤之别。比尔·克林顿真的虐待过女性，而希拉里欺凌、攻击、羞辱、恐吓过那些受害者。”
Mr. Trump then turned the focus to his second debate against Mrs. Clinton, less than 48 hours away.
随后，特朗普把焦点转向了他和克林顿将在不到48小时之后进行的第二场辩论。
Ever the performer and intimidator, he added, with a hint of menace in his voice: “We will discuss this more in the coming days. See you at the debate on Sunday.”
他不改表演者和恐吓者的本色，语带威胁地补充道，“我们会在未来几天继续讨论此事。周日辩论见。”