WASHINGTON — President Trump offered on Thursday a new version of his decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, saying he would have dismissed him regardless of whether the attorney general and his deputy recommended it.
华盛顿——对于解雇FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)的决定，特朗普总统周四又有了新说法：无论司法部部长和副部长有没有给出这个建议，他都会解雇科米。
In his first extended comments on a move that has roiled Washington, Mr. Trump castigated Mr. Comey, calling him “a showboat” and “a grandstander” who had created turmoil at the bureau. But the president’s description of his decision-making process conflicted with the account provided previously by his aides.
科米被炒在华盛顿引起轩然大波，这是特朗普第一次详细评论此事，他斥责了科米，称他“爱出风头”、“喜欢炫耀自己”，给FBI制造了混乱。但总统提到自己的决策过程时，与之前他助理的说法出现了矛盾。
The White House previously said that Mr. Trump acted only after Attorney General Jeff Sessions and the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, came to him and recommended that Mr. Comey be dismissed. In the letter dismissing Mr. Comey that Mr. Trump signed, it said he was acting on their recommendation. And Vice President Mike Pence, talking to reporters, also said the president had been following the Justice Department officials’ advice.
白宫之前曾经说，正是由于司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)和副部长罗德·J·罗森斯坦（Rod J. Rosenstein）提出解雇科米的建议，特朗普才这么做的。特朗普签名的解雇信声称，他是按照他们的建议行事的。副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)在和记者交谈时也表示，总统听从了司法部官员的意见。
But in an interview with NBC News on Thursday, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Rosenstein’s opinion had not mattered.
但特朗普在周四接受NBC新闻的采访时表示，罗森斯坦的意见并非关键。
“I was going to fire Comey — my decision,” he told the anchor Lester Holt. “I was going to fire regardless of recommendation. He made a recommendation. He’s highly respected, very good guy, very smart guy. The Democrats like him. The Republicans like him. He made a recommendation. But regardless of recommendation, I was going to fire Comey.”
“我本来就要炒掉科米——这是我的决定，”他告诉主持人莱斯特·霍尔特(Lester Holt)说。“无论他们的建议是什么，我都有这个打算。他提出了建议。他很受尊重，他是非常好的人，很聪明的人。民主党喜欢他。共和党也喜欢他。他确实提出了建议。但无论他有没有提出建议，我都要炒掉科米。”
The president’s comments were the latest shift in the White House account of the episode. They could have been aimed at reassuring Mr. Rosenstein, who has been reported to be upset at the original White House narrative that made it appear the firing was done at his instigation.
特朗普的置评，是白宫对此事说法的最新转变。特朗普这么说可能是为了安抚罗森斯坦，因为有报道说，白宫最初的说法令罗森斯坦感到很不爽，显得解雇科米好像是他唆使的。
Mr. Rosenstein made a trip to Capitol Hill on Thursday for a previously unannounced meeting with the Republican and Democratic leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee. In a brief hallway conversation with a reporter, Mr. Rosenstein denied reports that he had threatened to quit.
罗森斯坦星期四去了国会山，与参议院情报委员会的共和党和民主党领导人举行了未经事先宣布的会面。罗森斯坦在走廊里与一名记者进行了短暂对话，否认了他威胁要辞职的传闻。
In the NBC interview, Mr. Trump elaborated on his claim in the letter to Mr. Comey that the F.B.I. director had told him on three occasions that the president himself was not under investigation. The F.B.I. has been investigating whether associates of Mr. Trump and his campaign coordinated with Russia as Moscow orchestrated an effort to intervene in the American election and tilt the election to Mr. Trump.
在NBC的采访中，特朗普详细解释了解雇信中提到科米曾三次告诉他，他本人没有遭受调查的说法。FBI一直在调查特朗普的手下及其竞选活动是否与俄罗斯有合作，莫斯科是否干预了美国大选，推动选举向有利于特朗普的方向发展。
Mr. Trump said Mr. Comey reassured him first at a private dinner and then two other times during phone conversations. He acknowledged that he had directly asked the F.B.I. director if he was being investigated.
特朗普说，科米在一次私人饭局中说过一次，后来在电话交谈中又说过两次。特朗普承认，他直接问科米是否在调查自己。
“I said, ‘If it’s possible, would you let me know if I’m under investigation,’ ” Mr. Trump said. “He said, ‘You are not under investigation.’ ”
特朗普说：“我说，‘如果方便的话，你就告诉我，我是否正在被调查。’他说，‘你没有被调查。’”
He said Mr. Comey had requested the dinner early in his administration to ask to keep his job, which an F.B.I. director does not have to do because under law he has a 10-year term. “He wanted to stay on as the F.B.I. head,” Mr. Trump said. “I said: ‘I’ll consider. We’ll see what happens.’ But we had a very nice dinner and at that time, he told me I wasn’t under investigation, which I knew anyway.”
他说科米在这届政府成立之初，为了保住自己在FBI的工作，就提出要和他一起吃饭；FBI局长没有必要这么做，因为根据法律，他有10年的任期。“他想继续当FBI局长，”特朗普说。“我说，‘我会考虑的。我们会看看事情怎么发展。’但是我们吃的那顿晚餐非常好，那时候他告诉我，我没有受到调查，本来我也知道没有。”
In explaining his decision to fire Mr. Comey, Mr. Trump went beyond the reasons outlined earlier in the week about the F.B.I. director’s handling of last year’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server, making clear he had personal antipathy toward Mr. Comey.
在解释解雇科米的决定时，特朗普提到的不只是本周早些时候指出的那些原因——科米去年对希拉里·克林顿使用私人电邮服务器的调查处理不当，而是明确表示了他对科米的个人反感。
“He’s a showboat,” Mr. Trump said. “He’s a grandstander.”
“他爱出风头。”特朗普说，“他喜欢炫耀自己。”
He added that “the F.B.I. has been in turmoil” since last year, apparently a reference to the controversy over how the Clinton investigation was managed, and “it hasn’t recovered from that.”
他说FBI自从去年以来“就一直处于混乱状态”，这似乎是指FBI处理克林顿案的方式存在争议，而且“一直没有恢复”。