Donald J. Trump said on Twitter on Monday that he would meet in New Jersey with Senator Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, as he screens potential running mates in a series of meetings.
正在通过一系列会面来筛选潜在竞选搭档的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)周一在Twitter上表示，他将在新泽西州同艾奥瓦州共和党参议员约尼·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)会面。
One person briefed on the process, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said that the campaign began vetting Ms. Ernst in recent days as a possible vice-presidential pick.
一名了解筛选过程但无权公开发言的人士表示，最近几天，特朗普的竞选团队开始将厄恩斯特作为潜在的副总统人选来审查。
Jason Miller, a senior communications adviser for Mr. Trump, declined to comment. A spokesman for Ms. Ernst could not be reached, but in a statement on Monday, Ms. Ernst confirmed that she had met with Mr. Trump.
特朗普的高级公关顾问贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)拒绝置评。记者无法联系到厄恩斯特的发言人，但厄恩斯特在周一的一份声明中证实，她已同特朗普见过面。
Ms. Ernst is a retired National Guard lieutenant colonel and a veteran of the Iraq war. Her military background could help Mr. Trump given his lack of foreign policy experience or national security experience. The fact that she is a woman could also help Mr. Trump with a group of voters with whom he currently polls poorly.
厄恩斯特是一名国民警卫队(National Guard)退役中校，曾参加过伊拉克战争。鉴于特朗普缺乏外交政策和国家安全方面的经验，她的军方背景可能会帮到特朗普。厄恩斯特是女性这一点，可能也有助于改善特朗普在目前民调表现不佳的选民群体中的形象。
Ms. Ernst is also considered a possible keynote speaker at the Republican National Convention, which begins on July 18 in Cleveland.
厄恩斯特还被认为可能会在共和党全国大会(Republican National Convention)上发表主旨演讲。该大会将于7月18日在克利夫兰开幕。
In the statement, Ms. Ernst said that her focus was on defeating Hillary Clinton, saying, “I had a good conversation with Donald Trump today, and we discussed what I am hearing from Iowans as I travel around the state on my 99-county tour, and the best path forward for our country.”
在声明中，厄恩斯特表示她的重点是打败希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，并称，“我今天同唐纳德·特朗普谈得很好，我们讨论了我在走访全州99个县期间听到的艾奥瓦民众的心声，以及推动我国前进的最佳方式。”
She added: “I will continue to share my insights with Donald about the need to strengthen our economy, keep our nation safe and ensure America is always a strong, stabilizing force around the globe.”
她接着表示：“我将继续与唐纳德分享我的见解，我认为必须强化经济、维护国家安全并确保美国在全球永远都是一支强大的、稳定性的力量。”
It is unusual in recent history for a presumptive nominee of a major party to tease out the process for choosing a running mate in such a public way, but it is in reflective of Mr. Trump’s approach on his reality TV show, “The Apprentice.”
稳获主要政党提名的候选人如此公开地呈现竞选搭档筛选过程，近年来并不常见，但这与特朗普在他的真人秀《学徒》(The Apprentice)上的方式一脉相承。
Earlier in the weekend, Mr. Trump met with Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, another potential vice-presidential candidate. The two met at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J., where Mr. Trump is expected to meet with Ms. Ernst.
周末早些时候，特朗普会见了另一名副总统潜在人选、印第安纳州长迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)，地点在新泽西州贝德明斯特的特朗普全国高尔夫俱乐部。特朗普预计也会在这里与厄恩斯特会面。
In another post on Twitter on Monday, Mr. Trump praised Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, another military veteran who some Republicans hope will be chosen by Mr. Trump.
在周一的另一条推文中，特朗普对阿肯色州参议员汤姆·科顿(Tom Cotton)大加赞赏。科顿也是一名退伍老兵，一些共和党人希望特朗普能选他。