WASHINGTON — Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, whose extensive deal-making for the energy giant has plunged him into global politics from Yemen to Russia, is expected to be offered the secretary of state post this weekend by President-elect Donald Trump, according to two people close to Trump’s transition team.
华盛顿――能源巨头埃克森美孚公司(Exxon Mobil)首席执行官雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)为该公司所做的诸多交易决策已令他深深介入从也门到俄罗斯的全球政治之中，根据两个接近特朗普过渡团队的人透露，预计本周末，候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)将提名他接掌国务卿一职。
Tillerson has close ties with President Vladimir Putin of Russia, whom he has known for more than two decades. Russia awarded Tillerson its Order of Friendship in 2013, the year before Washington’s relationship with Moscow was frozen over Russia’s annexation of Crimea and its shadow war in eastern Ukraine.
蒂勒森与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)有着密切的联系，两人相识已有二十多年。2013年，俄罗斯向蒂勒森授予友谊勋章(Order of Friendship)，随后的一年里，因俄罗斯吞并克里米亚及在乌克兰东部发动“影子战争”，华盛顿与莫斯科的关系陷入僵局。
Tillerson, with no background in diplomacy outside the energy arena, would face the question of whether to maintain sanctions on Russia — penalties he has criticized for slowing Exxon’s investments in that country.
在能源领域之外毫无外交背景的蒂勒森将面临是否对俄罗斯继续实施制裁的问题――他曾批评这些制裁措施减缓了埃克森公司在该国的投资。
His connections to Russia are sure to come under scrutiny during a Senate confirmation hearing. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said Saturday that Tillerson’s ties to Putin were “a matter of concern to me.”
他与俄罗斯的联系肯定会在参议院就其提名举行的听证会上受到审查。亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)周六表示，蒂勒森与普京的关系“是我所关心的问题。”
Tillerson met with Trump for more than two hours Saturday at Trump Tower in New York, and two of the president-elect’s key advisers, his chief strategist, Stephen Bannon, and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, have told Trump that Tillerson is in a “different league” from his other options.
周六，蒂勒森在纽约的特朗普大厦与特朗普进行了两个多小时的会面，候任总统的首席策略师斯蒂芬·班农(Stephen Bannon)和女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)这两位重要顾问告诉特朗普，蒂勒森与其他人选“不是一个级别”。
Tillerson’s success in business gives him a credential with Trump. Tillerson, 64, has spent the past 41 years at Exxon, where he began as a production engineer and went on to strike deals around the world for a company that explores, buys and sells oil and gas in some of the globe’s most troubled corners.
特朗普对蒂勒森的信心来自后者在商业上的成功。 今年64岁的蒂勒森在埃克森公司度过了41年，他从产品工程师起步，随后在世界各地达成交易，这家公司在世界上某些最混乱的角落勘探、购买和销售石油与天然气。
If confirmed by the Senate, Tillerson will have to manage a war in Syria and a North Korea that is growing closer to being able to launch a nuclear-armed missile at the United States.
如果获得了参议院的确认，蒂勒森将必须应付叙利亚的战争，以及越来越接近有能力向美国发射核导弹的朝鲜。