WASHINGTON — Barely more than a week after boasting that he has a bigger nuclear button than Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, President Trump portrayed himself on Thursday as having good relations with the autocratic leader of the nation.
华盛顿——将近一周多前，特朗普总统吹嘘自己的核按钮比朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的大；而周四，他说自己与这个国家的独裁领导人关系很好。
“I probably have a very good relationship with Kim Jong-un,” Mr. Trump told The Wall Street Journal in an interview. “I have relationships with people. I think you people are surprised.”
“我很可能与金正恩的关系很好，”特朗普在接受《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)采访时说。“我很有人缘。我想你们这些人可能会对此感到惊讶。”
Mr. Trump declined to say whether he had directly spoken with his North Korean counterpart. “I’m not saying I have or haven’t,” he said.
特朗普拒绝透露他是否与朝鲜最高领导人进行了直接对话。“我并没有说我是否跟他通过话，”他说。
But the rosy description of his relationship with the North Korean leader was another jarring reversal in tone from a president who has spoken admiringly of Mr. Kim in some moments and mocked him in others, referring to him as a fat “Little Rocket Man.”
不过，对自己与这位朝鲜领导人关系的乐观描述，是总统在言论上的又一个令人震惊的逆转。总统有时对金正恩表示钦佩，有时又嘲笑他，称他是肥胖的“小火箭人”。
In September, the president called Mr. Kim the leader of a “band of criminals” and later said he was a “madman.” Two months later, he called Mr. Kim “a sick puppy.” Mr. Kim has sometimes responded to the taunts, at one point calling Mr. Trump a “mentally deranged U.S. dotard” and “a rogue and a gangster fond of playing with fire, rather than a politician.”
去年9月，特朗普说金正恩是“犯罪团伙”头目，后来又说他是“疯子”。两个月后，他说金正恩是“一只有病的小狗”。金正恩有时会对特朗普的嘲弄做出回应，一度称特朗普是“精神错乱的美国老糊涂”，是“喜欢玩火的流氓匪徒，不是政治家。”
The current, more positive, state of the president’s relationship with Mr. Kim, according to Mr. Trump, comes in the midst of a modest thaw in relations between North Korea and South Korea, whose officials met, face-to-face, for talks for the first time in recent days. Those talks have not included Mr. Trump, who said in Thursday’s interview that his shifting commentary about the North Korean leader was part of a broader strategy.
特朗普说自己目前与金正恩的关系好转之时，正值朝韩关系略有缓和。前几天，朝韩两国官员第一次面对面会谈。特朗普没有参与这些会谈，他在周四接受采访时说，他对朝鲜领导人评论的变化是更广泛战略的一部分。
“You’ll see that a lot with me,” Mr. Trump said, referring to the difference between his friendly tone toward Mr. Kim and his previous tweets calling him a “maniac” and a “short and fat” person. “And then all of the sudden somebody’s my best friend. I could give you 20 examples. You could give me 30. I’m a very flexible person.”
“你会经常看到我这样做，”特朗普说。他指的是他有时对金正恩语气友好，而之前也曾在Twitter上说金正恩是个“疯子”，“又矮又胖”。“然后突然之间，某人成了我最好的朋友。我可以给你举20个这样的例子。你可以给我举30个例子。我是一个非常灵活的人。”
It is unclear whether that flexibility suggests a more permanent retreat from the angry exchanges with North Korea that Mr. Trump often stoked during his first year in office. In response to North Korean ballistic missile launches and nuclear tests, the president has repeatedly issued dramatic threats of military action by the United States.
目前尚不清楚，这种灵活性是否意味着，特朗普会长期收敛他在执政第一年里经常引发的与朝鲜的愤怒对骂。作为对朝鲜弹道导弹发射和核试验的回应，总统曾多次发出美国会采取军事行动的激烈威胁。
Last summer, Mr. Trump threatened “fire and fury” against North Korea if Mr. Kim and his nation endangered the United States.
去年夏天，特朗普威胁称，如果金正恩和他的国家危及美国的安全，那么朝鲜将遭受“炮火和怒火”。
“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States,” Mr. Trump said during a visit to his golf club in New Jersey. “They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.”
“朝鲜最好不要再对美国发出威胁了，”当时特朗普在访问他在新泽西州的高尔夫俱乐部时表示。“他们将遭受全世界从未见过的炮火和怒火。”
In the interview on Thursday, Mr. Trump said he expected that North Korea’s effort to talk with South Korea is an attempt to drive a wedge between the South Koreans and the United States. He said that probably was their motivation, and he suggested that he should know.
特朗普在周四的采访中表示，他预测，朝鲜努力与韩国进行对话，是为了在韩国和美国之间制造嫌隙。他说，那很可能是他们的动机，他表示他应该知道这一点。
“The difference is I’m president, other people aren’t,” Mr. Trump told The Wall Street Journal. “And I know more about wedges than any human being that’s lived.”
“区别在于，我是总统，别人不是，”特朗普对《华尔街日报》说。“我对嫌隙的了解超过其他任何人。”