He called NATO obsolete. He said Germany’s acceptance of refugees is “utterly catastrophic.” Just days before Donald J. Trump’s inauguration, world leaders on three continents are on edge after comments the president-elect made in an interview on Friday with The Wall Street Journal and in a weekend interview with two European newspapers, Bild and The Times of London.
他说北约过时了。他说德国接受难民“完全是灾难”。唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)数天之后就要就任了，而他在上周五接受《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)采访，在周末接受两家欧洲报纸《图片报》(Bild)和《泰晤士报》(The Times)采访时发表的评论，让三大洲的领导人心烦意乱。
NATO is ‘obsolete’
北约“过时了”
“It’s obsolete, first because it was designed many, many years ago,” Mr. Trump said, according to the German newspaper Bild. The 28-member alliance, born in 1949, three years after Mr. Trump, is viewed by many — including his nominee for defense secretary, Gen. James N. Mattis — as essential to American security.
据德国《图片报》报道，特朗普说北约“已经过时了，首先因为它是很多、很多年前设计的”。这个28国组成的联盟诞生于1949年，当时特朗普才3岁。很多人都认为北约对美国的安全至关重要，其中也包括他提名的国防部长詹姆斯·N·马蒂斯(James N. Mattis)上将。
“Secondly, countries aren’t paying what they should” and NATO “didn’t deal with terrorism.”
“第二，这些国家没有承担相应的成本”，而且北约“没有打击恐怖主义”。
Responding on Monday to Mr. Trump’s comments, Dalia Grybauskaite, the president of Lithuania, which gained its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 and joined NATO in 2004, urged Mr. Trump to continue meeting the United States’ financial obligations toward the alliance.
周一，立陶宛总统达利娅·格里包斯凯特(Dalia Grybauskaite)对特朗普的言论做出回应，敦促特朗普继续履行美国对北约的财政义务。立陶宛1991年从苏联独立，2004年加入了北约，
“Since World War II, the presence of U.S. troops has been a prerequisite for rebuilding the Continent, safeguarding peace and ensuring security. We expect continuity from the new U.S. administration. Trump must maintain this leadership role, to ensure security, stability and peace.” — Ms. Grybauskaite
“自第二次世界大战以来，美军的存在是重建欧洲大陆、维护和平，以及确保安全的先决条件。我们期望新的美国政府保持这种做法。特朗普必须继续发挥领导力，以确保安全、稳定与和平。”——格里包斯凯特。
‘The force of Europeans is in their unity’
“欧洲人的力量在于团结”
Mr. Trump also criticized the European Union, describing it as “basically a vehicle for Germany.” He praised Britain for its vote to leave the bloc, known as Brexit, adding: “I believe others will leave. I do think keeping it together is not going to be as easy as a lot of people think.”
特朗普还批评了欧盟，称其为“基本上是德国的载体”。他称赞英国投票离开欧盟，说：“我相信其他成员国也会离开。我认为维持这个联盟不像很多人想的那么容易。”
“I think that we Europeans have our destiny in our own hands, and I would very strongly argue that we all stand together.” — Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, about the 27 European Union members that will remain after Britain’s departure
“我认为，我们欧洲人把命运掌握在自己手中，我会非常坚决地说，我们全都站在一起。”——谈及27个欧盟成员国将在英国离开后留下来时，德国总理默克尔表示道。
French leaders also bristled at Mr. Trump’s swipe against the bloc. Their response comes as they deal with growing domestic support for the anti-European Union and anti-immigrant party National Front, led by Marine Le Pen, who was spotted on Thursday at Trump Tower in New York.
法国领导人也抨击了特朗普对欧盟的批评。目前法国国内对反欧盟、反移民的政党国民阵线(National Front)的支持日益高涨，法国领导人正在应对这种状况。国民阵线领袖马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)上周四曾在纽约特朗普大厦现身。
“The best response,” said the French foreign minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, “is European unity.”
法国外交部长让-马克·埃罗(Jean-Marc Ayrault)说：“最好的回应就是欧洲的团结。”
“As with the case of Brexit, the best way to defend Europe is to remain united. This is a bit of an invitation that we are making to Mr. Trump. To remain a bloc. Not to forget that the force of Europeans is in their unity.” — Mr. Ayrault
“与应对英国脱欧的时候一样，捍卫欧洲的最好办法是保持团结。这是我们对特朗普的号召。要维持联盟。不要忘记，欧洲人的力量在于团结。”——埃罗。
Mexico warns against punitive tariffs
墨西哥对惩罚性关税作出警告
Mr. Trump also took aim at German automakers, warning of a 35 percent tariff on any cars they build in Mexico and export to the United States.
特朗普还把矛头指向了德国汽车制造商，警告他们说，在墨西哥制造并出口到美国的任何汽车都会被收取35%的关税。
Shares of BMW, Volkswagen and Daimler fell on Monday after his comments, but BMW said the company would stick to its plans to open a plant in Mexico in 2019.
他发表这番言论之后，宝马、大众和戴姆勒公司的股价本周一应声下挫，但宝马说，该公司将坚持原定计划，2019年在墨西哥开设一家工厂。
“It’s very clear that we have to be prepared to immediately be able to neutralize the impact of a measure of that nature,” Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal, Mexico’s economy minister, said on Friday on a Mexican news show.
墨西哥经济部长伊尔德方索·瓜哈尔多·比利亚雷亚尔(Ildefonso Guajardo Villarreal)周五在墨西哥的一档新闻节目上说，“很明显，我们必须做好准备，随时消除这种性质的影响。”
“It would be a problem for the entire world,” Mr. Guajardo Villarreal warned.
“这对全世界都是一个问题，”瓜哈尔多·比利亚雷亚尔警告说。
Such a tariff “will have a wave of impacts that can take us into a global recession,” he said.
这种关税“将产生一波影响，导致全球性的衰退”，他说。
And from Russia, a nod
来自俄罗斯的首肯
Not surprisingly, Russian diplomats were unperturbed by Mr. Trump’s comments on NATO. They welcomed the “obsolete” label and were enthusiastic at his suggestion that he would consider reducing sanctions against Russia if the country agreed to reduce its nuclear arsenal.
毫不奇怪，特朗普对北约的评论并没有让俄罗斯外交官感到困扰。他们欢迎“过时的”这个说法，并对他的一个建议表示了兴趣。该建议是，如果俄罗斯同意削减核武库，他将考虑减少对俄罗斯的制裁。
Dmitri S. Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, said on Monday that “NATO is indeed a vestige.” 
俄罗斯总统普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S.Peskov)周一表示，“北约确实是一个历史遗迹。”
Considering that NATO “is focused on confrontation and its entire structure is devoted to the ideals of confrontation, then, of course, this can hardly be called a modern structure meeting the ideas of stability, sustainable development and security.” — Mr. Peskov
鉴于北约“把重心放在对抗上，整个结构都围绕着对抗思维展开，它当然不是一种以稳定、可持续发展和安全为导向的现代组织”。——佩斯科夫。
“Let’s wait until he assumes office before we give assessment to any initiatives,” he said.
“等到他上任之后，我们再评估任何倡议吧，”他说。