A week before Michael Flynn resigned as national security adviser, a sealed proposal was hand-delivered to his office, outlining a way for President Donald Trump to lift sanctions against Russia.
在迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)辞去国家安全顾问职位一周前，一项密封的提议被人亲手送至他的办公室，其中概述了唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统解除对俄罗斯制裁的新方案。
Flynn is gone, having been caught lying about his own discussion of sanctions with the Russian ambassador. But the proposal, a peace plan for Ukraine and Russia, remains, along with those pushing it: Michael Cohen, the president’s personal lawyer, who delivered the document; Felix H. Sater, a business associate who helped Trump scout deals in Russia; and a Ukrainian lawmaker trying to rise in a political opposition movement shaped in part by Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort.
弗林因为被发现在与俄罗斯大使讨论制裁的问题上撒谎而辞职，但这项提议——让乌克兰与俄罗斯达成和平的方案——及推动它的人依然还在：递送该文件的总统私人律师迈克尔·科恩(Michael Cohen)；曾帮助特朗普在俄罗斯物色交易机会的生意伙伴费利克斯·H·塞特(Felix H. Sater)；试图在部分由特朗普的前任竞选经理保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)促成的一个政治反对派运动中崛起的一个乌克兰议员。
At a time when Trump’s ties to Russia, and the people connected to him, are under heightened scrutiny — with investigations by U.S. intelligence agencies, the FBI and Congress — some of his associates remain willing and eager to wade into Russia-related efforts behind the scenes.
在特朗普与俄罗斯的关系以及与他有关联的人受到严格审视之际——美国情报机构、联邦调查局(FBI)和国会的调查，他的一些助手依然愿意、急于在幕后介入与俄罗斯有关的努力。
Trump has confounded Democrats and Republicans alike with his repeated praise for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and his desire to forge a U.S.-Russian alliance. While there is nothing illegal about such unofficial efforts, a proposal that seems to tip toward Russian interests may set off alarms.
特朗普一再称赞俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)以及他想要达成美俄联盟的渴望，让民主党人与共和党人都惶惑不已。尽管这些非官方的努力没有什么违法的地方，但一项似乎倾向于俄罗斯的提议有可能会拉响警报。
The amateur diplomats say their goal is simply to help settle a grueling, three-year conflict that has cost 10,000 lives. “Who doesn’t want to help bring about peace?” Cohen asked.
这些业余外交人员表示，他们的目的只是帮助解决一项持续了三年、已导致1万人丧生的令精疲力竭的冲突。“谁不想帮助带来和平？”科恩问道。
But the proposal contains more than just a peace plan. Andrii V. Artemenko, the Ukrainian lawmaker, who sees himself as a Trump-style leader of a future Ukraine, claims to have evidence — “names of companies, wire transfers” — showing corruption by the Ukrainian president, Petro O. Poroshenko, that could help oust him. And Artemenko said he had received encouragement for his plans from top aides to Putin.
但这项提议包含的不只是一个和平方案。那位自认为是乌克兰未来的特朗普式领导人的议员安德里·V·阿尔乔缅科(Andrii V. Artemenko)声称自己握有——“企业名称、电汇证明”——可以证明乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)存在腐败行为的证据，这有助于罢免后者。阿尔乔缅科表示，他的这项计划受到普京高层助手的鼓励。
“A lot of people will call me a Russian agent, a U.S. agent, a CIA agent,” Artemenko said. “But how can you find a good solution between our countries if we do not talk?”
“许多人会说我是俄罗斯特工、美国特工、美国中央情报局(CIA)特工，”阿尔乔缅科说。“但如果不进行对话，我们怎么能在我们的国家之间找到一个好的解决方案呢？”
Cohen and Sater said they had not spoken to Trump about the proposal, and have no experience in foreign policy. Cohen is one of several Trump associates under scrutiny in an FBI counterintelligence examination of links with Russia, according to law enforcement officials; he has denied any illicit connections.
科恩与塞特表示，他们没有对特朗普谈起过这项提议，二人在制定外交政策上没有任何经验。据几名执法官员透露，在FBI就与俄罗斯的关联进行的反间谍调查中，科恩是受到严格审查的几名特朗普副手之一；他否认自己有任何违法的关系。
The two others involved in the effort have somewhat questionable pasts: Sater, 50, a Russian-American, pleaded guilty to a role in a stock manipulation scheme decades ago that involved the Mafia. Artemenko spent 2 1/2 years in jail in Kiev in the early 2000s on embezzlement charges, later dropped, which he said had been politically motivated.
介入这项努力的另外两人也有可疑的经历：50岁的俄裔美国人塞特在几十年前因为参与一起与黑手党有关的股票操纵骗局而服罪。阿尔乔缅科在21世纪初曾因挪用公款的指控在基辅坐了两年半的监狱，这项指控后来被撤销，他表示该指控有政治动机。
While it is unclear if the White House will take the proposal seriously, the diplomatic freelancing has infuriated Ukrainian officials. Ukraine’s ambassador to the U.S., Valeriy Chaly, said Artemenko “is not entitled to present any alternative peace plans on behalf of Ukraine to any foreign government, including the U.S. administration.”
尽管目前还不清楚白宫是否会严肃对待这项提议，但这些自由外交家的行为激怒了乌克兰官员。乌克兰驻美国大使瓦列里·恰雷(Valeriy Chaly)表示，阿尔乔缅科“无权代表乌克兰向任何外国政府提交任何替代性的和平方案，包括美国政府”。
At a security conference in Munich on Friday, Poroshenko warned the West against “appeasement” of Russia, and some U.S. experts say offering Russia any alternative to a 2-year-old international agreement on Ukraine would be a mistake. The Trump administration has sent mixed signals about the conflict in Ukraine.
在上周五于慕尼黑举行的一场安全会议上，波罗申科警告西方不要“姑息”俄罗斯，一些美国专家则表示，向俄罗斯提供任何替代那项就乌克兰问题达成的为期两年的国际协议的方案，都将是一个错误。在乌克兰冲突的问题上，特朗普政府发出了含糊不清的信号。
But given Trump’s praise for Putin, John Herbst, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, said he feared the new president might be too eager to mend relations with Russia at Ukraine’s expense — potentially with a plan like Artemenko’s.
但前美国驻乌克兰大使约翰·赫布斯特(John Herbst)表示，考虑到特朗普对普京的赞赏，他担心这位新总统可能会太急于修补与俄罗斯的关系，不惜牺牲乌克兰的利益——有可能拿出类似阿尔乔缅科提出的那种计划。
The FBI is reviewing an unverified dossier, compiled by a former British intelligence agent and funded by Trump’s political opponents, that claims Cohen met with a Russian representative in Prague during the presidential campaign to discuss Russia’s hacking of Democratic targets. But the Russian official named in the report told The New York Times that he had never met Cohen. Cohen insists that he has never visited Prague and that the dossier’s assertions are fabrications.
FBI正在审查一份未证实的档案资料，它由一名前英国情报人员编写，由特朗普的政治对手资助。该文件宣称，在总统竞选期间，科恩曾在布拉格与一名俄罗斯代表会面，讨论俄罗斯对民主党目标进行黑客袭击的问题。但报告中提到的俄罗斯官员对《纽约时报》表示，他从没见过科恩。科恩则坚称自己从没去过布拉格，并表示文件中的说法是不实之词。
Cohen has a personal connection to Ukraine: He is married to a Ukrainian woman and once worked with relatives there to establish an ethanol business.
科恩与乌克兰存在私人关系：他娶了一位乌克兰女子，曾与那里的亲戚一起经营一项与酒有关的生意。
Before entering politics, Artemenko had business ventures in the Middle East and real estate deals in the Miami area, and had worked as an agent representing top Ukrainian athletes. Some colleagues in Parliament describe him as corrupt, untrustworthy or simply insignificant, but he appears to have amassed considerable wealth.
在进入政界之前，阿尔乔缅科曾在中东进行商业投资，在迈阿密地区进行过房地产交易，还曾做过乌尔兰顶级运动员的代理人。他在乌克兰议会的一些同事称其腐败、不值得信任，或根本无关紧要，但他似乎积聚了相当可观的财富。
He has fashioned himself in the image of Trump, presenting himself as Ukraine’s answer to a rising class of nationalist leaders in the West. He even traveled to Cleveland last summer for the Republican National Convention, seizing on the chance to meet with members of Trump’s campaign.
他以特朗普的形象来塑造自己，把自己包装成乌克兰对西方民族主义领导者崛起的回应。去年夏天他甚至还去了共和党全国代表大会的举办地克利夫兰，找机会和特朗普的竞选活动成员会面。
“It’s time for new leaders, new approaches to the governance of the country, new principles and new negotiators in international politics,” he wrote on Facebook on Jan. 27. “Our time has come!”
“是时候有新的领导人、新的国家治理方式、新的原则，以及新的国际政治谈判者登场了，”他1月27日在Facebook上写道：“我们的时机到了！”
Artemenko said he saw in Trump an opportunity to advocate a plan for peace in Ukraine — and help advance his own political career. Essentially, his plan would require the withdrawal of all Russian forces from eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian voters would decide in a referendum whether Crimea, the Ukrainian territory seized by Russia in 2014, would be leased to Russia for a term of 50 or 100 years.
阿尔乔缅科说，他从特朗普身上看到了倡导一个乌克兰和平计划的机会——同时帮助推进他自己的政治生涯。简单来说，他的计划是所有俄罗斯部队撤出乌克兰东部地区。乌克兰选民将在全民公投中决定，是否要把俄罗斯在2014年吞并的乌克兰领土克里米亚租给俄罗斯50年或100年。
The Ukrainian ambassador, Chaly, rejected a lease of that kind. “It is a gross violation of the constitution,” he said in written answers to questions from The Times. “Such ideas can be pitched or pushed through only by those openly or covertly representing Russian interests.”
乌克兰大使恰雷对这种形式的租赁表示拒绝。“这严重违反了宪法，”他在回答时报的提问时写道。“只有公开或暗中代表俄罗斯利益的人才会推销、推动这些想法。”
The reaction suggested why Artemenko’s project also includes the dissemination of “kompromat,” or compromising material, purportedly showing that Poroshenko and his closest associates are corrupt. Only a new government, presumably one less hostile to Russia, might take up his plan.
这种反应显示了为什么阿尔乔缅科的项目还包括传播“黑材料”(kompromat)，据称是暴露了波罗申科及其最亲近同事的腐败行为。只有一个新的政府，可能不那么敌视俄罗斯的政府，才有可能会采用他的计划。
Sater, a longtime business associate of Trump’s with connections in Russia, was willing to help Artemenko’s proposal reach the White House.
特朗普多年的生意伙伴、在俄罗斯有各种关系的塞特愿意帮助阿尔乔缅科把这个提议传达到白宫。
Trump has sought to distance himself from Sater in recent years. If Sater “were sitting in the room right now,” Trump said in a 2013 deposition, “I really wouldn’t know what he looked like.”
特朗普最近几年一直试图和塞特保持距离。在2013年一次作证的时候，特朗普曾说，如果塞特“现在就坐在这里，我真的认不出他长什么样子”。
But Sater worked on real estate development deals with the Trump Organization on and off for at least a decade, even after his role in the stock manipulation scheme came to light.
但在房地产开发生意上，塞特与特朗普集团断断续续进行了至少十年的交易，即便是在他参与股票操纵骗局曝光之后。
Cohen said he was waiting for a response to the proposal when Flynn was forced from his post. Now he, Sater and Artemenko are hoping a new national security adviser will take up their cause. On Friday the president wrote on Twitter that he had four new candidates for the job.
科恩说，当弗林被迫离职的时候，他正在等待该提议的回复。现在他、塞特和阿尔乔缅科希望新的国家安全顾问会同意这件事。上周五，特朗普在Twitter上写道，他为这个职位找到了四个新的候选人。