Of course he looked.
当然他看了日食。
Monday’s solar eclipse — life-giving, eye-threatening, ostensibly apolitical — summoned the nation’s First Viewer to the Truman Balcony of the White House around 2:38 p.m.
周日的日食——它让人兴奋、有害视力、表面上无关政治——在2:38左右，把美国第一观众召唤到了白宫的杜鲁门阳台上。
The executive metaphor came quickly.
行政隐喻来得很快。
President Trump lumbered toward the railing, behind the official seal, joined by a familiar assemblage of relatives, aides and at least one relative-aide, his daughter Ivanka Trump.
特朗普缓缓走向栏杆，栏杆前挂着正式的徽章，和他一起看日食的是些熟面孔：家眷、助手和至少一个家眷兼助手，即他的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)。
Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, wore sunglasses, clutching another pair of protective eclipse shades. The president’s eyewear was ready for him, too. Somewhere.
特朗普的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)戴着太阳镜，手里拿着另一副日食观看防护镜。总统的眼镜也已经准备好了。在某个地方。
He was disinclined to wait.
他不情不愿地等待着。
First came a wave of the right hand, a restless jacket adjustment, another wave. Staff members were gathered beneath him — primed, for at least a few moments, to absorb a spectacle of another sort, and nothing else.
他先是挥了一下右手，然后烦躁地调整了一下外衣，接着又挥了一下手。工作人员聚集在这个阳台下面——至少在那么几分钟时间，他们准备好了观看另一番奇观，而不是别的。
It was not to be. Mr. Trump’s hands shot out in front of him, as if to view the sky through an invisible telescope — the first danger sign. He reset himself for a beat.
这可不行。特朗普把手搭在面前，仿佛在用一副隐形望远镜在观察天空——这是第一个危险信号。他重新了调整一下自己。
And then he went straight for it, cocking his head back, turning to his right, toward the object of everyone’s attention.
然后，他直接朝它看去，他仰着脖子，向右偏头，朝着大家注意的对象看去。
“Don’t look!” an aide shouted from below.
“别看！” 下面的一个助理喊到。
The president looked. He half-smiled. He pointed. Looking was fun.
总统看了。他半含微笑。他指着太阳。直视日食很有趣。
And with that, Mr. Trump had done it once more, on as cosmic a scale as any. He has run afoul of party officials, historical precedent, political gravity, stately decorum. Why not the sun?
就这样，特朗普又搞了一次事，规模达到了宇宙级别。他与自己党派的官员、历史先例、政治重力、庄严礼仪都有过冲突。为什么不和太阳来一次呢？
The instincts seemed familiar:
这种直觉性的举动似乎很眼熟：
The same instant gratification — retinas be damaged — that drives him to Twitter at all hours, seeking appraisals in real time.
正是同样的即时满足感——才不去管视网膜会受损——驱使他随时随地上Twitter，去寻求实时的评价。
The same heat-seeking impulse, validated anew, to insert himself into a viral news event without fail, with the timed precision of an astronomer.
他有一种跟踪热源的冲动，总是可以置身于疯狂传播的新闻事件之中，对时机精度的把握不亚于天文学家，现在再次得到了验证。 
The contrarianism in the face of experts who think they know better, who lack the audacity to look, who said he never had a chance in Pennsylvania.
他还有一种针对专家的逆反主义——专家们认为自己更懂，不敢直视，说他在宾夕法尼亚州永远没有机会赢。
Across town, at the United States Naval Observatory, Vice President Mike Pence welcomed a group of teenage students for a more scrupulous viewing party. “You’ve got to have the shades on,” he reminded them.
在城市另一边的美国海军天文台，副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)和一群十几岁的学生举办了一个更严谨的日食观看活动。“你们必须戴上防护镜，”他提醒他们。
Eventually, Mr. Trump covered his eyes, too.
最后，特朗普也遮住了眼睛。
He gazed up, glasses on, appearing to grimace a bit. He murmured something to Mrs. Trump. He tugged on his jacket again. He chopped at the air.
他带着防护镜抬头凝视，脸部略微扭曲。他喃喃地对妻子说了点什么，然后又整理了一下夹克，用力向空中挥了一下手。
After some 90 seconds, the glasses came off for a moment. He stole another glance skyward, then found something new to look at, something looking back at him.
大约90秒后，他把防护镜摘下了一会儿。他又看了一眼天空，然后发现了一些新东西，它们对他回以凝视。
He returned to the crowd, his thumb shooting up, up, up in three quick jabs.
他回到人群中，他竖起的拇指快速地上下晃了三次。
There was the smile.
脸上带着微笑。