It was an irony lost perhaps only on the White House that, almost nine months after he entered office, President Trump’s official photographic portrait was finally released … on Halloween.
上台近九个月后，特朗普总统的官方标准照终于公布了，并且是在万圣节这一天。或许只有白宫没有注意到这件颇具讽刺意味的事情。
After all, it presented a very different image of the president than had most of his previous snaps. It is unlike the portrait that had often been used in the past few months on Mr. Trump’s Twitter profile, showing the president with a fearsome “You’re fired!” look on his face, and unlike the one on his White House Twitter account, in which his hands are clasped and he has a look of deep concern.
毕竟，这张照片和他之前的大部分照片都有着很大的不同。它既不同于过去几个月常被用作特朗普的Twitter头像、脸上一幅“你被解雇了！”的骇人表情的那张，也不同于白宫Twitter账户上他双手交叉、一幅忧心忡忡表情的那张。
The portrait, taken by the White House photographer Shealah Craighead, is also unlike the highly airbrushed official portrait of Mr. Trump's wife, Melania, which was released in April and features a Sphinx-like first lady, albeit with a soft focus. It does not include his trademark red tie (like the one he wore at his inauguration), nor a “Make America Great Again” baseball cap.
由白宫摄影师希拉·克雷格黑德(Shealah Craighead)操刀的这张照片，也不同于4月公布的特朗普之妻梅拉尼娅(Melania)的官方标准照。在经过大量修饰后的照片中，这位第一夫人在柔焦镜头下神秘莫测。在这张官方肖像照中，特朗普没有系他标志性的红领带（比如他在就职仪式上系的那条），也没有戴写着“让美国恢复伟大荣光”(Make America Great Again)的棒球帽。
It does not remotely resemble the famous portrait of Winston Churchill — you know, the one taken by Yousuf Karsh in 1941, in which the former prime minister of Britain is scowling, with one hand on hip — who, The New York Times reported in March, was Mr. Trump’s model of choice.
它一点都不像温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)那张著名的肖像照。大家知道吧，就是优素福·卡什(Yousuf Karsh)在1941年拍的那张。照片中，这位英国前首相怒气冲冲，单手叉腰。据《纽约时报》3月报道，那是特朗普选的样板。
Instead, it depicts Mr. Trump in front of the de rigueur American flag, in a navy suit with flag pin, white shirt, patterned blue tie — and big grin. The orange glow has been toned down, but it is the smile that really sticks out. It almost looks as if he’s being tickled. The word chortle comes to mind.
照片中的特朗普身后是必不可少的美国国旗，他本人身着别有国旗胸针的藏青色西装、白衬衫，系着带图案的蓝色领带，并且笑容灿烂。橘黄色的肤色在处理过后变得柔和了，但他的笑容真的很抢眼。看上去几乎像是有人在胳肢他。咯咯笑(chortle)这个词跳了出来。
That the president and his team chose this image of benign cheer to adorn government offices across the country and to represent his administration is pretty striking, not simply because it seems to suggest “Hey, I’m enjoying this gig” or because it is counter to so much of Mr. Trump’s usual threatening, fight-picking, wall-building posturing. It is also something of an anomaly in the presidential portrait continuum, where the exhibition of restrained gravitas often seems to be the overriding imperative.
总统和他的团队选择用这张和蔼、欢快的照片装饰全美各地的政府机构，并代表他领导的联邦政府，令人感到非常惊讶。这不仅仅是因为它似乎是在说“嘿，我很喜欢这份工作”，或是因为它与特朗普常见的充满威胁意味、找茬、拒人于千里之外的姿态截然相反；在所有总统肖像中，它也属于反常。在总统肖像中，表现出含蓄的庄严通常似乎都是最重要的。
This generally means folded arms, and a sort-of smile. Occasionally, teeth are involved, but even then, the glee is measured.
这通常意味着双臂交叉，似笑非笑。偶尔会露出牙齿，但即便如此，那种高兴也是有节制的。
The first official portrait of Barack Obama, for example, in 2009, featured the then-president looking seriously at the camera, the sides of his mouth just beginning to quirk upward — more of a suggestion of a smile than an actual one. In 2013, for his second term, his portrait showed him looking pretty cheerful, but posing in front of his desk with arms crossed.
比如，在2009年公布的贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)第一张官方肖像中，时任总统的他严肃地看着镜头，嘴角刚要上扬——更多的是露出笑的迹象，而不是真正的笑。在2013年第二个任期的肖像照中，他看上去很高兴，但也是双臂交叉站在办公桌前。
His predecessor, George W. Bush, had his photo taken in the Roosevelt Room, and while his eyes were crinkled genially, his smile was contained.
他的前任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的官方肖像照是在罗斯福厅(Roosevelt Room)拍摄的。照片中，布什和蔼可亲地眯缝着双眼，笑容克制。
That it took Mr. Trump, who was known to choose his own photos during the campaign, and his team so long to settle on the smiley image suggests a deliberate choice, especially for an administration where appearance has always been part of the calculus (all those “central casting” generals).
据知，竞选期间特朗普的照片都是他自己挑选的。他和他的团队花了这么长时间才选定这张满面笑容的照片表明，这是一个慎重的选择，特别是对一个外表永远是考量一部分的联邦政府来说（想想他手下那些“典型形象”的将领们）。
Which either means we’re about to see a new side of the man, or that he’s trying to hedge his bets. Trick or treat?
这要么意味着我们即将看到他新的一面，要么意味着他正试图规避风险。不买账就使坏？