LONDON — America’s traditional allies are on the lookout for new friends.
伦敦——美国的传统盟友正在寻找新朋友。
They have heard the mantra “America First” from the new president, divining a Trump doctrine: global cooperation last. Europeans have taken note of Mr. Trump’s denigration of the European Union and his apparent esteem for the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. In Asia and Latin America, leaders have absorbed the deepening possibility that Mr. Trump will deliver on threats to impose punitive tariffs on Mexican and Chinese imports, provoking a trade war that will damage economic growth and eliminate jobs around the world.
它们听到了新总统说的“美国优先”。这句符咒阐明了特朗普主义：全球合作放在最后。欧洲注意到了特朗普对欧盟的贬低和对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的明显尊重。在亚洲和拉美，领导人承受着不断增加的可能性：特朗普会兑现对墨西哥和中国进口货物征收惩罚性关税的威胁，引发一场贸易战，破坏全球的经济增长和就业。
Some allies are shifting focus to other potential partners for new sources of trade and investment, relationships that could influence political, diplomatic and military ties. Many are looking to China, which has adroitly capitalized on a leadership vacuum in world affairs by offering itself as a champion for global engagement.
一些盟友正在把焦点转移到其他潜在的合作伙伴身上，寻找新的贸易和投资来源。这些关系可能会影响政治、外交和军事往来。很多都看向了中国；通过主动支持参与全球事务，它巧妙地利用了国际事务中的领导真空。
“We’ve always said that America is our best friend,” Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the Eurogroup — comprising finance ministers from countries sharing the euro currency — said in an interview with The New York Times on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this month. “If that’s no longer the case, if that’s what we need to understand from Donald Trump, then of course Europe will look for new friends.”
“我们一直说美国是我们最好的朋友，”由欧元国家的财长组成的欧元集团(Eurogroup)主席杰伦·戴塞尔布卢姆(Jeroen Dijsselbloem)本月在瑞士达沃斯出席世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)期间接受《纽约时报》的采访时说。“如果情况变了，如果这就是我们需要从唐纳德·特朗普那里领会到的意思，那欧洲当然会寻找新朋友。”
“China is a very strong candidate for that,” he added. “The Chinese involvement in Europe in terms of investment is already very high and expanding. If you push away your friends, you mustn’t be surprised if the friends start looking for new friends.”
“中国是一个非常有力的候选人，”他接着说。“就投资而言,中国对欧洲事务的参与程度已经非常高了，并且还在不断扩大。如果把朋友推开了，就不要对朋友开始寻找新朋友感到惊讶。”
On Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany spoke by telephone with Premier Li Keqiang of China. “The two spoke in favor of free trade and a stable world trade order,” a German government spokesman later said in a written statement.
周三，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和中国总理李克强通了电话。“双方支持自由贸易和稳定的世界贸易秩序，”德国政府发言人在随后的书面声明中说。
The swift reassessment of trade relations — a realm in which Mr. Trump is directly threatening the order that has prevailed since the end of World War II — only amplifies the potential for a shake-up of the broader geopolitical framework.
迅速地重新评估贸易关系只是增加了更广泛的地缘政治框架发生巨变的可能性。在贸易关系领域，特朗普正在直截了当地威胁自二战结束后盛行至今的秩序。
Mr. Trump has already criticized NATO as obsolete while demanding that member states pay more, calling into question the alliance that has maintained security across much of Europe for more than six decades. In shutting American borders to people from predominantly Muslim countries, Mr. Trump risks inflaming tensions with Middle Eastern nations while widening a void with democratic allies over basic values.
特朗普指责北约(NATO)过时，同时要求成员国支付更多费用，并对北约在六十多年里维持欧洲大量地区的安全表示怀疑。特朗普向来自以穆斯林为主的国家的人关闭美国边境的做法，可能会加剧与中东国家的紧张关系，同时扩大同民主盟友在基本价值观上的分歧。
Through the fractious campaign, weary sophisticates dismissed the extreme talk from the Trump camp as political bluster. Even if he won, he would never follow through on his threats, particularly in trade where his business sensibilities would prevail.
在整个失控的竞选期间，不胜其烦的见多识广者对特朗普阵营发表的极端言论不以为意，认为它们不过是政治上的口出狂言。即便赢了，他也绝不会兑现自己的威胁，尤其是在他的商业智慧会占上风的贸易领域。
But that conventional wisdom looks to be crumbling. First, Mr. Trump delivered on a promise to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
但这种传统观点看上去正在瓦解。首先，特朗普兑现了退出“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans-Pacific Partnership)的承诺。
Then, on Thursday, his administration appeared to embrace a Republican proposal to impose a 20 percent tax on all imported goods while asserting the proceeds would pay for a wall along the Mexican border. Word of the tax emerged as President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico canceled a visit to Washington to protest the promised wall — resonating as the potential first salvo in a trade war.
然后是周四，他领导的联邦政府似乎支持共和党对所有进口商品征税20%的提议，并主张这些收入可用于在墨西哥边境沿线修筑一道墙。传出征税的消息时，墨西哥总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)取消了访问华盛顿的计划，以抗议特朗普承诺的那道墙——一场贸易战的首个回合风雨欲来。
“I’m incredibly concerned that the Trump people mean what they say,” said Chad P. Bown, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “One would hope that they are using this as a negotiating tactic. But even if you are, that’s an extraordinarily dangerous game to play, because, right now, the communication to the world is not flowing clearly.”
“我非常担心特朗普的人说话是当真的，”彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的贸易专家查德·P·鲍恩(Chad P. Bown)说。“有人会希望他们是在把这作为一种谈判技巧。但即便如此，这也是一个非常危险的游戏，因为现在，与世界的交流并不清晰、流畅。”
The communication on Thursday came through Mr. Trump’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, who during the administration of George W. Bush, promoted the job-creating magic of free trade as a spokesman for the United States Trade Representative.
周四的交流是通过特朗普的新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)披露的，他在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府工作期间曾以美国贸易代表办公室发言人的身份宣扬自由贸易创造工作的魔力。
Pressed to explain how Mr. Trump would force Mexico to pay for the wall, Mr. Spicer said an import tax would do the trick. He soon clarified the tax was merely one option on a crowded buffet table.
斯派塞被要求解释特朗普将如何强迫墨西哥为边境墙掏钱，他说，进口税会做到这一点。之后他很快澄清，说这项税收只是摆得满满的自助餐桌上的其中一个选择。
At a news conference on Friday, Mr. Trump reported having had “a very good call” with the Mexican president. But he did not sound conciliatory. Mexico “has outnegotiated us and beat us to a pulp through our past leaders,” he said. “I’m not going to let that happen.”
在星期五的新闻发布会上，特朗普说，他与墨西哥总统进行了“非常好的电话会谈”。但他的语气听上去没有缓和。墨西哥“在和我们过去的领导人谈判时占了上风，把我们打得一塌糊涂，”他说。“我不会让这种情况发生。”
Within the business world, the prospect of substantial tariffs seems so damaging that many assume it will never happen.
在商业世界中，高额关税的前景具有极大破坏性，许多人认为它永远不会发生。
Three decades ago, Alan Russell, a former commercial airline pilot, set up the Tecma Group of Companies, which runs factory operations for multinationals in Mexico. Today, the company employs some 7,000 Mexican laborers, most of them in factories clustered around Ciudad Juárez. They make components for the automotive, electronics, aerospace and medical device industries.
三十年前，前商业航空公司飞行员艾伦·罗素(Alan Russell)建立了Tecma集团公司，在墨西哥为跨国公司运营工厂。今天，公司雇佣了大约7000名墨西哥工人，其中大部分都在华雷斯城的诸多工厂之中工作。他们为汽车、电子、航空航天和医疗器械行业制造组件。
Mr. Trump’s words have provoked fear among the members of Mr. Russell’s work force. “They hear the administration is going to shut down Nafta and deport everyone, and it scares them,” he said, referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement.
特朗普先生的话令罗素的工作人员感到恐惧。“他们听说，行政部门将废弃NAFTA，驱逐每个人，他们非常害怕，”他说的NAFTA是指《北美自由贸易协议》(North American Free Trade Agreement)。
But in the end, he said, business will carry on.
但是到头来，他说，公司业务还会继续下去。
“In 31 years, I’ve been through rapid inflation, devaluations, three major recessions, the violence period and multiple presidential administrations, and every year trade has increased,” he said. “We’ve been through worse. Trade is like life itself. It will figure a way.”
“31年来，我经历了快速通货膨胀、多次货币贬值、三次大衰退、暴力时期和多个总统政府，但每年贸易都在增长，”他说。“我们经历过更糟糕的情况。贸易就像生活本身。它会找到自己的办法。”
Most experts have similarly assumed the responsibilities of governance would temper Mr. Trump’s trade posture. Given that nearly one-third of all American trade is conducted with China and Mexico, a rupture risks severe economic damage.
大多数专家也同样假定政府治理的责任会令特朗普在贸易方面的姿态缓和下来。鉴于近1/3的美国贸易同中国和墨西哥有关，与它们关系破裂将冒着严重经济损失的风险。
The three countries are intertwined in the global supply chain. China makes components that go into auto parts manufactured in the United States. Those parts are delivered to factories in Mexico that produce finished vehicles sold to Americans. Calling such vehicles Mexican imports misses that much of the value is produced in the United States, employing American labor.
这三个国家在全球供应链中交织在一起。中国制造的零部件会混入美国制造的汽车零部件。这些零件交付给墨西哥的工厂，生产卖给美国人的成品车。把这种汽车称之为墨西哥进口的人忽略了它们大部分的价值是在美国生产，雇用美国劳工。
“The idea of trade wars these days, what politicians have in mind is really a 19th-century or early 20th-century conception of trade,” said Gianmarco I.P. Ottaviano, a trade economist at the London School of Economics. “You don’t even know who you’re going to hurt with these kind of things. You’re probably going to destroy American jobs in the end.”
“这些日子以来政治家们考虑的贸易战争其实是19世纪或20世纪初的贸易概念，”伦敦经济学院的贸易经济学家乔马克·I·P·奥塔维亚诺(Gianmarco I.P. Ottaviano)说，“你甚至不知道动用这种东西伤害的会是谁。你最终可能会毁掉美国的工作。”
Mr. Trump owes his office in no small measure to factory workers who have come to view global trade as a mortal threat to their livelihoods. But their sentiments are grounded not in ideology, but in a desire for jobs at decent wages. If Mr. Trump impedes imports, he could put some of these voters out of work.
特朗普之所以能够当选，那些工厂工人们的帮助不小，他们已把全球贸易视为对自己生计的致命威胁。但他们的情绪并不植根于意识形态，而是源于对一份有体面工资的工作的渴望。如果特朗普阻碍进口，他可能令这些选民中的一部分人失去工作。
Beyond the economic effects, Mr. Trump’s refashioning of trade has already altered global alignments.
除了经济效应之外，特朗普对贸易进行的重塑已经改变了全球格局。
In emphasizing “America First,” Mr. Trump has generated a widespread sense that the country is surrendering its global leadership position. Britain’s abandonment of the European Union has enhanced the view that a period of international integration has devolved to a new era in which nationalist concerns are paramount.
在强调“美国优先”时，特朗普制造了一种波及甚广的印象，即美国正在放弃其全球领导地位。英国放弃欧盟增强了一种观点：国际一体化的时代已经被一个新的时代所接替，在这个时代，同民族主义相关的问题是最重要的。
On Friday, as Mr. Trump hosted British Prime Minister Theresa May, he only increased the sense that he disdains Europe.
上周五，特朗普会见英国首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)时，更让人感受到他对欧洲的蔑视。
“Brexit’s going to be a wonderful thing for your country,” he told Ms. May at a news conference, before recounting his frustrations with the union’s bureaucracy. “Getting the approvals from Europe was very, very tough.”
“脱欧对你的国家将是一件很棒的事，”他在一次新闻发布会上告诉梅，并表达自己对欧盟官僚的沮丧。“从欧洲获得批准非常、非常困难。”
With both countries pursuing nationalist aspirations and multilateral institutions seemingly endangered, the world suddenly seems short of responsible supervision.
由于两国都追求民族主义抱负，多边机构似乎受到威胁，因此世界突然之间好像缺少了负责任的监管。