Here’s how President-elect Trump could unify a bitterly divided America, provide well-paying jobs to many of the millions of disaffected workers who voted for him, and lift the economy, stock market and tax rolls.
候任总统特朗普该采取什么办法，让严重分裂的美国重新团结一致，向投票给他的众多心怀不满的工人提供高薪工作岗位，并提振经济、股市和税收？
All he needs to do is what he presumably does best: build something.
他只需要做他大概最擅长的事情：建造点什么。
And I don’t mean a few miles of asphalt or a paint job on a rusting bridge.
我指的并不是铺几英里长的沥青路，或者粉刷生锈的桥梁。
Build something awe-inspiring. Something Americans can be proud of. Something that will repay the investment many times over for generations to come.
而是建造某种令人赞叹的东西。某种让美国人引以为豪的东西。某种让子孙后代受益无穷的东西。
Build the modern-day equivalent of the Golden Gate Bridge, the Hoover Dam, the Lincoln Tunnel or the Timberline Lodge. Or even, given Mr. Trump’s passion for the sport, another Bethpage State Park Black Course — the first public golf course to host the prestigious United States Open.
建造当代的金门大桥(Golden Gate Bridge)、胡佛水坝(Hoover Dam)、林肯隧道(Lincoln Tunnel)或林木木屋(Timberline Lodge)。又或者，鉴于特朗普对体育的热情，建造另一座贝斯佩奇州立公园黑球场(Bethpage State Park Black Course)——第一座承办享有盛誉的美国公开赛(United States Open)的公共高尔夫球场。
All of these are Depression-era New Deal public works projects started under President Franklin D. Roosevelt that are still in use.
所有这些公共工程项目，都属于应对大萧条的罗斯福新政的一部分，始建于富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)总统治下，目前仍在使用之中。
Can anyone name even one infrastructure project from President Obama’s $800 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act? I didn’t think so.
有谁能从奥巴马总统价值8000亿美元的《美国复苏与再投资法案》(American Recovery and Reinvestment Act)找出哪怕一个基建项目吗？我不这么认为。
In fairness to Mr. Obama, Republicans in Congress bitterly opposed his public works spending plans, and he lamented there were too few “shovel ready” projects.
替奥巴马说句公道话，共和党议员曾强烈反对其公共工程支出计划，而且他曾感叹几乎没有什么“可以动工的”项目。
That didn’t stop F.D.R. His Public Works Administration and Works Progress Administration, using combinations of public and private money, solicited proposals from states and cities, hired millions of workers and eventually built 78,000 bridges, 650,000 miles of roads, 700 miles of airport runways, 13,000 playgrounds and 125,000 military and civilian buildings, including more than 40,000 schools — in most cases to high standards of quality and design.
但这没能阻挡住罗斯福。他的公共工程管理局(Public Works Administration)和工程振兴管理局(Works Progress Administration)动用了公共以及私人资金，向各个州和城市征询了意见，雇用了数以百万计的工人，最终建成了7.8万座桥梁、65万英里长的道路、700英里长的飞机跑道、1.3万座游乐场以及12.5万座军用和民用建筑，包括逾4000所学校——其质量和设计标准在大多数情况下都很高。
The federal government built the La Guardia, Ronald Reagan Washington National and Los Angeles International airports, the Upper Mississippi locks and dams, the Bonneville power project on the Columbia River, the Robert F. Kennedy Bridge in New York, and the Florida Keys Overseas Highway. Most are still in use today. To a large degree, this is the infrastructure that made America great, to borrow Mr. Trump’s catchphrase.
联邦政府修建了拉瓜迪亚机场(La Guardia)、罗纳德·里根华盛顿国家机场(Ronald Reagan Washington National)和洛杉矶国际机场(Los Angeles International)，在哥伦比亚河(Columbia River)兴建了博纳维尔(Bonneville)电力项目，在纽约架起了罗伯特·F·肯尼迪大桥(Robert F. Kennedy Bridge)，还修建了佛罗里达跨海公路(Florida Keys Overseas Highway)。它们大多仍在使用之中。套用特朗普的说法，这些基建项目在很大程度上让美利坚散发出了伟大荣光。
What Roosevelt accomplished “is astounding,” said Scott Myers-Lipton, a sociology professor at San Jose State University and author of the books “Rebuild America: Solving the Economic Crisis Through Civic Works” and “Ending Extreme Inequality.”
罗斯福取得的成就“令人叹为观止”，圣何塞州立大学(San Jose State University)社会学教授、著有《重建美利坚：以民用工程解决经济危机》(Rebuild America: Solving the Economic Crisis Through Civic Works)和《终结极端不平等》(Ending Extreme Inequality)的斯科特·迈尔斯-利普顿(Scott Myers-Lipton)说。
But it’s not so much the numbers people remember today. “Most people just know there was an alphabet soup of organizations,” he said. “What they see and remember are the landmarks: the Bay Bridge, Reagan National Airport or the baseball stadium in San Jose. We’re living on that legacy today.”
但这并不是今天的人们记忆中的数字。“大多数人只知道曾经有各种各样的机构名称字母缩写，”他说。“他们看在眼中、记在心里的只有地标：海湾大桥(Bay Bridge)、里根国家机场或者圣何塞的棒球场。我们今天依靠那些遗产过活。”
Repealing Obamacare, lowering taxes for businesses and mostly wealthy people, overhauling the immigration system and privatizing Medicare — what congressional Republicans have cited as their top legislative priorities — would be divisive in a nation bitterly split along partisan and geographic lines. But nearly everyone agrees that America has grossly neglected its infrastructure even as the rest of the world, notably China, has raced ahead.
被共和党议员引为立法优先事项的举措，比如废除奥巴马医改法案(Obamacare)、为企业以及主要由富人构成的群体减税、整饬移民制度、将联邦医疗保险(Medicare)私有化，会在一个沿着党派和地理界线严重割裂开来的国家引发分歧。但几乎人人都认为，在世界上的其他地方——尤其是中国——迎头赶上之际，美国严重忽视了基础设施建设。
“Our airports are like from a third-world country,” Mr. Trump said at Hofstra University during the first presidential debate. “You land at La Guardia, you land at Kennedy, you land at LAX, you land at Newark, and you come in from Dubai and Qatar and you see these incredible — you come in from China, you see these incredible airports, and you land — we’ve become a third-world country.”
“我们的机场就跟第三世界国家的差不多，”特朗普在霍夫斯特拉大学(Hofstra University)参加第一场总统竞选辩论时说。“你乘坐的飞机在拉瓜迪亚机场降落，在肯尼迪机场降落，在洛杉矶国际机场降落，在纽华克机场降落，你从迪拜或者卡塔尔过来，看过那里棒极了的机场，你从中国过来，看过那里棒极了的机场，然后飞机降落在美国，你会觉得我们已经变成了一个第三世界国家。”
Who could disagree? Hillary Clinton also called for a big increase in infrastructure spending.
谁会有异议呢？希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)也曾呼吁大幅增加基建投资。
“The single best thing the federal government can do to promote economic growth is to repair and build the transportation network, the highways, railroads and airports,” said Roger Noll, an emeritus professor of economics at Stanford and a senior fellow at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. “It’s been neglected for 30 years.”
“要促进经济增长，联邦政府的最佳选择是整修和建设交通网络，公路、铁路和机场，”斯坦福大学经济学荣休教授、斯坦福大学经济政策研究所(Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research)高级研究员罗格·诺尔(Roger Noll)说。“这方面被忽视已经有30年了。”
Last year, Dan McNichol, author of the book “The Roads That Built America,” a history of the Interstate highway system, and a White House adviser on transportation issues for President George H. W. Bush, navigated the country in a 1949 Hudson Commodore on a mission to investigate the state of America’s infrastructure.
去年，讲述州际公路系统历史的著作《造就美国的公路》(The Roads That Built America)的作者、在乔治·H·W·布什(George H. W. Bush)总统任内担任白宫交通运输事务顾问的丹·麦克尼科尔(Dan McNichol)，曾开着一辆1949年的哈德逊准将(Hudson Commodore)在全国各地游历，调查美国基础设施的情况。
“I was trying to see if this was really a crisis or a media sensation,” he told me this week from California, where he’s working on the state’s high-speed rail project. “I found out it’s pretty dire in terms of total infrastructure. For a nation that leads the world in global trade, our systems are failing.”
“我想知道这真的是一场危机，还是只是媒体的耸人听闻，”身在加利福尼亚州的他本周对我说。他正参与该州的高铁项目。“我发现，就基础设施的总体情况而言形势非常严峻。对一个在全球贸易中引领世界的国家来说，我们的各种系统每况愈下。”
Mr. Trump has pledged $1 trillion over 10 years, but no one I spoke to thought that was enough. Doubling that would be more realistic, Mr. McNichol said. And Mr. Trump’s campaign proposal was limited to infrastructure projects that could pay for themselves out of user fees, which seems like a shortsighted approach. Most economists say the best way to finance a big public works program, particularly given today’s low interest rates, would be for the government to borrow most of the money from investors.
特朗普承诺在10年时间里投资1万亿美元，但和我交谈过的所有人都觉得不够。麦克尼科尔说，翻一番更实际。此外，特朗普竞选时提出的方案仅限于可通过收费实现自负盈亏的基础设施项目。这看上去似乎是一种目光短浅的做法。大部分经济学家表示，为大型公共工程筹集资金的最佳方式是，资金大头由政府向投资者举债，尤其是考虑到眼下利率水平低。
Pulling off something on the scale of the Depression-era public works programs would be no small feat. Recent federal infrastructure efforts, including reconstruction after Hurricanes Katrina and Sandy, as well as the Obama stimulus program, hardly inspire confidence.
在规模堪比大萧条时期的公共工程上取得成功绝非易事。最近的联邦基础设施项目，包括飓风“卡特里娜”和“桑迪”后的重建，以及奥巴马的刺激计划，都让人感到心里没底。
Alan Brinkley, a professor of history at Columbia, said he doubted Mr. Trump could replicate Roosevelt’s achievements. “Roosevelt had a coherent mission, if not always a consistent way to address the Depression and the economic crisis,” Mr. Brinkley said. “He was eclectic in his approach because he was pragmatic.”
哥伦比亚大学历史教授阿兰·布林克利(Alan Brinkley)怀疑特朗普无法复制罗斯福的成就。“罗斯福担负的使命始终如一，尽管他应对大萧条和经济危机的方式并非总是一致，”布林克利说。“他在方法上的多样是源于他的务实。”
Even more important, “Roosevelt was informed, surrounded himself with informed people, and was prepared on Day 1 to begin. I’m not sure that Trump’s policies go beyond his electioneering slogans,” Mr. Brinkley said. “I’m afraid a new P.W.A.,” he added, referring to the Public Works Administration, “will stand for Promises Without Actions.”
更重要的是，“罗斯福见多识广，身边也都是见多识广之人，上任第一天他就准备开始了。我不确定特朗普的政策会不会超越竞选时打出的口号，”布林克利说。“我担心新的PWA，”他接着说，这里指的是公共工程管理局(Public Works Administration)，“会变成‘只许诺不行动’(Promises Without Actions)。”
But in the spirit of magnanimity, let’s give Mr. Trump the benefit of the doubt, as Mr. Obama has suggested. He’ll need his own versions of Harold L. Ickes, Roosevelt’s interior secretary, who ran the P.W.A., and his close adviser Harry L. Hopkins, who ran the W.P.A.
但是，正如奥巴马所建议的，本着宽宏的精神，我们权且相信特朗普。他将需要找到自己的哈罗德·L·伊克斯(Harold L. Ickes)和自己的亲密顾问哈里·L·霍普金斯(Harry L. Hopkins)。前者是罗斯福的内政部长，主政公共工程管理局，后者负责工程振兴管理局。
Mr. Trump will also need to be hands-on. Roosevelt asked states and cities for proposals, but he made nearly all the final decisions himself. “F.D.R. was a fanatic about infrastructure, roads, planning,” Mr. McNichol said. “As a commissioner in New York, he helped lay out the Taconic Parkway. He even helped design the picnic tables.”
特朗普还需要亲力亲为。罗斯福让各州各市提交方案，但几乎所有最终决定都是他自己拍板的。“FDR非常喜欢基础设施、公路和规划，”麦克尼科尔说。“在纽约当警察局长时，他就参与设计了塔科尼克公园大道(Taconic Parkway)。他甚至还参与设计过野餐桌。”
The right public works projects, said Mr. Myers-Lipton of San Jose State, would “address the public anger that elected Trump, which is that the regular folks aren’t being taken care of.” During the Depression, “the government built beautiful hotels and golf courses and parks. The vision was, what’s usually for the elite should be for everybody. That’s the power of public works.”
圣何塞州立大学的迈尔斯-利普顿说，合适的公共工程项目会“缓解公众的一种愤怒情绪，他们觉得普通老百姓没有得到妥善的对待，正是这种情绪促使特朗普当选。”在大萧条时期，“政府修建了漂亮的酒店、高尔夫球场和公园。这背后的想法是，通常仅面向精英的服务理应面向所有人。这就是公共工程的力量。”