Like most great romances, theirs borrows from others.
和绝大多数的爱情故事一样，他们的故事也是抄来的。
It’s “Sleepless in Seattle,” except they’re both blonds — sort of. Their feelings bloom long before they ever meet. They communicate across time zones, in words and wishes rather than caresses. Can reality match giddy expectation? The answer comes Friday, when they gaze into each other’s eyes for the first time.
就像《西雅图夜未眠》——除了他俩都是金发——他们在见面之前很久就已经相互萌生了好感。他们身在不同时区，通过言语和祈愿而不是爱抚实现交流。期待令人陶醉，而现实能与之相称吗？答案将在星期五，他们初次四目相对之时揭晓。
It’s “Romeo and Juliet.” Their clans have long feuded, but they won’t be denied. Vladimir, Vladimir, wherefore art thou, Vladimir? In Hamburg, Germany, looking past the duller leaders of lesser countries to his chosen one.
就像《罗密欧与朱丽叶》(Romeo and Juliet)。他们的部族长期以来都有宿仇，但他们两人是无法阻挡的。弗拉基米尔，弗拉基米尔，为什么你是弗拉基米尔？在德国汉堡，他的目光将穿过那些不太重要的国家的乏味领导人，落在他选中的那一位身上。
You can regard the relationship of Putin and Donald Trump as purely odd and possibly corrupt, or you can see in it and in them a classic tale of affections strangled and at times set free. It’s irrepressible, international — part “Clueless,” part “Casablanca.” They have gone through all the usual phases of courtship. They have plumbed all the customary emotions.
你可能觉得普京和唐纳德·特朗普的关系只是很奇怪，或许还有腐败的迹象，但你也可以在这段关系，以及他们双方身上看到一个经典的故事：激情被扼制，但有时又迸发出来。它是无法压抑的，是国际性的——半像《独领风骚》(Clueless)，半像《卡萨布兰卡》(Casablanca)。他们经历了求爱过程中通常的所有阶段。他们探究过对方所有惯常的情绪。
At least Trump has. To be brutally honest and risk bruising his quivering heart, this has been a lopsided affair, unless you count Putin’s meddling in the 2016 election as the purest possible expression of ardor and fidelity, which I suppose you can.
至少特朗普是这样。他极度诚实，冒着让一颗颤抖的心灵受伤的危险，这是一段单相思，除非你把普京对2016年选举的干预当做激情与忠诚的最纯粹表达，我觉得你可以这这么想。
When did love begin to take root?
这份爱是从什么时候开始生根发芽的？
As far back as a decade ago, Putin caught Trump’s eye, and Trump sent him a signal, courtesy of a little birdie named Larry King. “Whether you like him or don’t,” he told King on CNN in 2007, “he’s doing a great job in rebuilding the image of Russia and also rebuilding Russia, period.”
早在十年前，普京就吸引了特朗普的视线，特朗普通过一个名叫拉里·金(Larry King)的中间人向普京发送了信号。“无论你喜欢不喜欢他，”2007年，他在CNN节目上对金说，“他在重建俄罗斯的形象和重建俄罗斯方面做得很好。”
Trump liked him all right and stopped playing coy in 2013, before he traveled to Moscow for the Miss Universe pageant there. “Do you think Putin will be going?” Trump tweeted, and you could picture him poised blushingly over his keypad, like a schoolgirl scribbling in her diary. “If so, will he become my new best friend?”
特朗普确实喜欢普京，2013年，他不再扭捏作态，前往莫斯科参加了那里的环球小姐(Miss Universe)大赛。“你觉得普京会去吗？”特朗普发推说，你可以想象他敲击键盘时，脸上泛起了红晕，就像一个女学生在她的日记里写的那样。“如果他也去，他会成为我最好的朋友吗？”
After the event, he did what all freshly besotted lovers do: crowed to the world about the bliss that the two of them had known.
活动结束后，他做了所有刚刚被迷倒的爱人都会做的事情：向世界宣告他们两人心知肚明的幸福。
“Putin even sent me a present, a beautiful present,” he said early the next year, at the Conservative Political Action Conference, but he failed to describe the token. Lovers have their confidences, and must hold tight to them.
“普京甚至送了我一个礼物，一个美丽的礼物，”翌年年初，他在保守派政治行动会议(Conservative Political Action Conference)上说，但他没有形容那个物品的样子。恋人自有他们的秘密，必须三缄其口。
Trump enveloped the two of them in mystery, creating confusion about what was really going on. Apparently referring to that Miss Universe moment, Trump told journalists, “I was in Moscow recently, and I spoke, indirectly and directly, with President Putin.”
特朗普把他俩包裹在一团神秘气氛之中，令人搞不清到底真正发生了什么。在显然是提到环球小姐的时候，特朗普对记者说：“我最近在莫斯科间接和直接地同普京总统交谈。”
So they were unambiguously and ambiguously involved. “We were stable mates,” he said of another time that they kind of, but not really, crossed paths, each with a separate segment on the same “60 Minutes,” two wild horses in one media corral.
所以他们的关系既毫不含糊，又令人琢磨不透。还有一次，他说，“我们有一样的背景，”但并没有真正相遇，只是在“60分钟”(60 Minutes)节目中各自登上了一个单独的板块，就像把两匹野马关在同一个媒体马厩里。
But how Trump felt about Putin was no secret. He routinely praised Putin’s muscular will. He repeatedly defended Putin’s honor, taking umbrage at talk of Putin’s Russia as a place where naysaying journalists and political opponents wound up dead.
但特朗普对普京的看法并不是什么秘密。他经常赞扬普京的强悍意志。他一再捍卫普京的荣誉，当有人说，在普京的俄罗斯，表达异议的记者和政治对手会死于非命时，特朗普显得很愤怒。
“I think our country does plenty of killing also,” he told Joe Scarborough on “Morning Joe.”
“我认为在我们的国家也有很多杀戮，”他对《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)的主持人乔·斯卡伯勒(Joe Scarborough)说 。
This was when Barack Obama was still in the White House, and the fact that he was Putin’s official counterpart, with more formal claim to the Russian leader’s time and attention, drove Trump a little mad. Jealousy is a tangerine-topped monster, and Trump repeatedly insisted that he’d be better with and for Putin, that Obama and Putin even looked wrong together.
这还是贝拉克·奥巴马身在白宫期间的事，事实上，奥巴马才是与普京的官配，更有正式资格要求拥有俄罗斯领导人的时间和关注，这使得特朗普有点抓狂。嫉妒化身为一个橘色头发的怪物，特朗普一再坚持认为他和普京更般配，普京和他在一起会更好，奥巴马和普京在一起，甚至看上去就不对劲。
“Really bad body language,” Trump tweeted at one point. And later, this, in an interview with Anderson Cooper: “He has no respect for Obama.” The proof, Trump added, was Edward Snowden’s safe harbor in Russia. “If I’m president, Putin says, ‘Hey, boom, you’re gone.’ I guarantee you this.” Love, alas, is as bad at predictions as it is blind.
“真是很糟糕的肢体语言，”有一次，特朗普发推说。后来，在接受安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)的采访时，特朗普说，“他（普京）对奥巴马毫无敬意”。他还说证据是爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)在俄罗斯接受庇护。“如果我是总统，普京就会说，‘嗨，砰，你滚吧，’我保证会是这样。”哎呀，正如爱情是盲目的，爱人也不擅长做预言。
Trump had a way of hauling Putin into unrelated conversations, just to insist that Putin cared only for him. He volunteered that while Marco Rubio, one of his rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, was a dreamboat to some, he’d be a leaky dinghy to Putin.
特朗普有办法在无关紧要的谈话中把普京也扯进来，只是为了坚持普京只在意他。他主动表示，虽然他在竞选共和党总统提名人时的对手之一马可·鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)是某些人的梦中情人，但是对于普京来说，他就和一条漏水的小破船没两样。
“Can you imagine Putin sitting there waiting for a meeting and Rubio walks in and he’s totally drenched?” Trump said in the winter of 2016. “I’ve never seen a human being sweat like this man sweats.” Take me, Vlad. I don’t sweat. I glow.
“你能想象普京坐在那儿等着开会，然后鲁比奥全身湿透地走进来吗？”2016年冬天，特朗普说。“我从来没有见过哪个人像他那么爱出汗。”带我走，弗拉。我不会出汗。只会闪闪发光。
Trump grew frisky. “Russia is like, I mean, they’re really hot stuff,” he blurted, and it was obvious that he was thinking of Putin, whom he’d mentioned a moment earlier.
特朗普愈来愈调皮。“俄罗斯就像，我是说，他们真是挺性感的，”他脱口而出，显然他心里想的是普京，他刚才就已经提过普京一次。
Trump grew insecure. Not once and not twice but more than eight times he bragged that Putin had called him “brilliant” or “a genius,” when there was in fact much dispute about that. By some translations, Putin merely described him as “colorful,” and could well have been appraising nothing more than his vaguely orange hue.
特朗普越来越没有安全感。他夸耀说——不是一次，也不是两次，而是超过八次——普京曾经说他“杰出”或者是“天才”，实际上，关于这一点存在很多争议。在一些翻译中，普京只是说特朗普“多姿多彩”，可能只是在夸赞他那淡淡的橙红脸色。
Is it any wonder that Trump craved a grand gesture for all the world to behold? He publicly beseeched Russia to ferret out and expose “the 30,000 emails that are missing” from a personal server that Hillary Clinton used as secretary of state. If I mean anything at all to you, Vlad, you’ll do it.
特朗普渴望一个大动作，让全世界都能看见，这有什么可奇怪的？他公开恳求俄罗斯窃取并公开希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)担任国务卿期间使用的个人服务器中“消失的三万封电子邮件”。如果我在你心里还有分量，弗拉，你会照做的。
Now, at long last, they come face to face, and while it’s uncertain what Trump will say, it’s clear what Trump has done: fashioned himself in the swaggering, blustering image of his beloved. It’s “Grease.” And it’s gross.
现在，终于，他们面对面的时刻到来了，虽然特朗普会说什么尚不分明，但是他做了什么却很清晰：他把自己打扮成心上人的样子，趾高气扬、盛气凌人。就像《油脂》(Grease)里那样。真恶心。