We saw Donald Trump’s true colors on Saturday, when he was given the chance — a ready-made moment for presidential grace — to denounce the neo-Nazis in Charlottesville, Va., and instead found wrongdoing “on many sides.” That was Trump minus the pressure and the planning. That was his initial instinct, his first impulse.
星期六这一天，我们看到了唐纳德·特朗普的本色，当他得到一个机会——一个现成的供他表现总统风范的时刻——可以去谴责弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔的新纳粹时，他却发现“有多个阵营存在”不当行为。这是他的本能，他的第一反应。
We saw a different palette at a lectern in the White House on early Monday afternoon, but it was pure artifice, and muted and unpersuasive because of that.
在周一午后的白宫讲台上，我们看到了另一种语调，但那是纯粹的诡计，因此也是微弱而缺乏说服力的。
Sure, he got some of the brush strokes right: the succinct assertion that “racism is evil”; the specific callout of the “K.K.K.” and “white supremacists”; the remembrance — finally — of Heather Heyer, who died as a consequence of the precise hatred that it took him more than two days to name.
的确，有些话他还是说对了：直白地表示“种族主义是邪恶的”；点出“三K党”和“白人至上者”；并且——终于——悼念了希瑟·海耶尔(Heather Heyer)，正是他花了两天多时间才说出口的那种仇恨，夺去了她的生命。
But we should note that just hours before he stepped up to that lectern, supposedly to make things right, he used that infernal Twitter account of his to taunt a black chief executive, Kenneth Frazier, for resigning from an administration advisory board. That was unscripted Trump. And he was peeved and hostile, not penitential and healing.
据说这是为了补救过失，但是我们不要忘了，就在登上讲台几个小时前，他用他那个地狱熔炉般的Twitter账号讥笑了黑人首席执行官肯尼斯·弗雷泽(Kenneth Frazier)，因为此人辞去了一个政府顾问委员会职务。那是无讲稿的特朗普。他心中怀着怒火与恶意，并不想忏悔与弥补。
We should also note that he began his brief statement on Monday by congratulating himself on the American economy and implicitly taking credit for what he said were a million new jobs. This is what our self-consumed, ungenerous president prefers to do — brag. He thumps his chest when he should be on his knees.
我们还需要注意到，周一那段简短的声明中，他首先就美国经济的形势向自己表示祝贺，公然把据说是增加一百万个工作岗位的功劳记在自己头上。这就是我们这位自我为中心的、不厚道的总统喜欢做的事——吹嘘。应该双膝跪地的时候，他却在捶打着胸膛。
Atone? Adjust? Inspire? These are outside of his character and beyond his ken. We can’t hope for any better, not at this point. And neither can his fellow Republicans, who find themselves at another juncture — maybe the most important one yet — where they must decide whether to continue showing him allegiance or carve out greater space between him and them. They’re no doubt judging the politics of it all and looking to the numbers. How I wish they’d judge the morality of it all and look to their souls.
赎罪？转变？启发？这些在他的性格里是不存在的，超出了他的认知范围。我们不能指望情况会好转，现在还不行。他在共和党的同僚们同样也不行，他们正在另一个紧要关头——可能是最重要的一个——是继续效忠于他，还是和他保持更远的距离，他们需要做一个决定。他们无疑正在权衡政治层面的利弊，研究现在的形势。我多么希望他们能做道德考量，看一看自己的灵魂。
Don’t get me wrong: I’d rather that Trump said what he did on Monday than maintain his silence, which was breathtaking, galling — and spectacularly revealing. He needed to speak, and to say some of the very words he did.
请不要误会：与其保持沉默，我还是希望他能有周一那样的言论，他的沉默是令人窒息的，无耻的——并且太能说明问题。他需要站出来，说出那几个词。
But the length of his delay upped the ante on his delivery, which was passionless. He barely cleared the bar of grudging. He fell miles short of stirring:
但是他的延误导致他需要拿出一场更好的演讲，而他的表现是毫无激情的。他基本上也就迈过了勉为其难这根标杆。距离打动人心差了十万八千里：
“Justice will be delivered.” “No matter the color of our skin, we all live under the same laws.” “We are all made by the same Almighty God.” “Racism is evil.”
“正义会得到伸张。”“无论我们是什么肤色，我们都在同样的法律下生活着。”“我们都是同一个全能的神创造的。”“种族主义是邪恶的。”
Amen, amen, amen and amen, but this preacher’s sermons have been wildly inconsistent and as often designed to divide as to unite. That was his path to power, one much uglier than most politicians travel, and his election didn’t do what so many of the Republicans who reluctantly supported him hoped that it would and make him a bigger person.
阿门，阿门，阿门，阿门，但这位牧师的布道存在严重的不一致，往往是以挑拨离间而非团结为目的。这就是他的掌权之路，比其他绝大多数政客要难看得多，竞选期间，许多硬着头皮支持他的共和党人希望他去做一些事，让他的形象能高大一点，他没有做。
No, Trump is the yardstick by which all other Republicans measure large. He makes you yearn for leaders you never in your wildest dreams considered yearn-worthy.
应该说，如果以特朗普为准绳，其他所有共和党人都能显得高大起来。他会让你期待一些自己以前从未考虑过的人物当上总统。
When, before Trump, did you find yourself wishing that someone could just summon the courage, clarity and compassion of … Ted Cruz? If only the Texas senator were our president! Back on Saturday, when Trump was still hemming, hawing and hiding, Cruz released a statement superior to what Trump, with more time and the help of many aides, delivered on Monday.
在特朗普之前，你什么时候想过，真希望有人能带来勇气、明晰和悲悯，就像……特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)那样？要是这位德克萨斯参议员能当我们的总统该多好！早在周六，也就是特朗普还在哼哼唧唧、躲躲闪闪的时候，克鲁兹发表了一段声明，好于特朗普在更多的助手协助下、用了更多的时间、到了周一才发表的声明。
“The Nazis, the K.K.K. and white supremacists are repulsive and evil, and all of us have a moral obligation to speak out against the lies, bigotry, anti-Semitism and hatred they propagate,” Cruz said. “These bigots want to tear our country apart, but they will fail.”
“纳粹、三K党和白人至上者是令人作呕而邪恶的，我们每一个人都有这个道义责任去揭穿他们散布的谎言、偏见、反犹主义和仇恨，”克鲁兹说。“这些恶人想分裂我们的国家，但他们不会得逞。”
He was emphatic and eloquent. So were Senator Cory Gardner, a Colorado Republican, and Senator Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican. As I heard their voices and read their words, I saw a glimmer of something positive: Trump’s failings are prompting G.O.P. leaders to enunciate certain principles in a clearer and more unequivocal way than they did before. Because of him, they’re drawing lines in the sand — at least semantically.
他的讲话铿锵有力。科罗拉多州共和党人科里·加德纳(Cory Gardner)、犹他州共和党人奥林·哈奇(Orrin Hatch)也是这样。当我听到他们的声音，读到他们的文字，我能看到一丝的希望：特朗普的败笔促使共和党领袖们选择了比以往更清晰、更明确的方式，阐明某些原则。因为有了他，他们终于开始划出一道底线——至少在言语上。
Of course the winds of opportunism and convenience could wipe out those lines in an instant. Of course Republicans have upbraided Trump before, only to hug him anew.
当然，一阵投机取巧的风吹来，足以把其中的某些话一下吹走。当然，共和党人以前也不是没有责骂过特朗普，到头来还会再去拥抱他。
But there can be no doubt: He’s past the point of hugging. His pretend amends at the White House on Monday didn’t color him warm, cuddly and redeemed. They were just Trump trying to get through another miserable day. And you, Republican members of Congress, have to figure out how your party and the rest of us get through the next miserable years.
但是有一点是毫无疑问的：他已经错过了可以拥抱的那一点。周一在白宫那场假惺惺的修正性讲话，并没有让他显得温暖、可亲，也没有让他得到救赎。那只是特朗普在努力熬过又一个苦不堪言的日子。而你们，国会的共和党人们，需要好好想想你们的党，还有我们大家，该如何熬过未来这苦不堪言的几年。