Donald J. Trump called on Monday for the United States to bar all Muslims from entering the country until the nation's leaders can “figure out what is going on,” an extraordinary escalation of his harsh rhetoric aimed at members of the Islamic faith in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, California.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在周一呼吁美国禁止所有穆斯林进入美国，直到美国领导人能“弄明白发生什么事情”，在巴黎及加州圣贝纳迪诺发生恐怖袭击后，他针对伊斯兰教信徒的刺耳言论进一步升级。
“Without looking at the various polling data, it is obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension. Where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine,” said Trump, the leading Republican candidate for his party's 2016 presidential nomination.
“不用看各种民调数据就知道，对于任何人来说，这种仇恨是无法理解的。这种仇恨来自哪里，以及为什么出现，我们还需要判断，”特朗普说。他是共和党2016总统竞选提名的热门候选人。
“Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life,” he said in a statement.
他发表声明称，“在我们能够判定并理解这个问题，以及它带来的威胁之前，我们的国家不应当成为可怕袭击的受害者。那些发动袭击的人只相信圣战，没有理性意识和尊重生命的意识。”
A spokeswoman for Trump confirmed the authenticity of the statement. Asked what prompted it, Trump said, “death,” according to the spokeswoman.
特朗普的女发言人证实了声明的真实性。据这名女发言人透露，在被问及是什么促使他发表上述声明时，特朗普回答称，“死亡。”
Trump made his remarks a day after President Barack Obama delivered a national address from the Oval Office urging Americans not to turn against Muslims in the wake of the terrorist attacks. Trump is expected to say more at a rally at the USS Yorktown in South Carolina on Monday evening to mark the anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.
在特朗普发表上述言论的一天之前，奥巴马总统在白宫椭圆形办公室面向全国发表讲话，呼吁美国人不要因为恐怖袭击事件而对穆斯林持敌对态度。特朗普将于周一晚间前往南卡罗来纳州，在“约克城号”(USS Yorktown)航空母舰上参加集会，发表更多讲话并纪念日本1941年袭击珍珠港的事件。
Experts on immigration law and policy expressed shock at the proposal Monday afternoon.
周一下午，研究移民法律及政策的专家们表示，对特朗普的提议感到震惊。
“This is just so antithetical to the history of the United States,” said Nancy Morawetz, a professor of clinical law at New York University School of Law, who specializes in immigration. “It's unbelievable to have a religious test for admission into the country.”
“这与美国的历史是对立的，”纽约大学法学院诊所式法律教育教授南希·莫哈维兹(Nancy Morawetz)说。“简直不敢相信要在进入这个国家前进行宗教考查。”莫哈维兹专门研究移民问题。
Trump has a track record of making surprising and even extreme comments whenever he is overtaken in opinion polls by other Republican candidates — as happened on Monday just hours before he issued his statement about Muslims.
每当特朗普在民调中被其他共和党候选人超越时，就会发表令人震惊甚至极端的言论——周一的民调显示特朗普处于落后位置，几个小时后，他便发表了有关穆斯林的声明。
Several Republican rivals of Trump repudiated his latest remarks. “This is just more of the outrageous divisiveness that characterizes his every breath and another reason why he is entirely unsuited to lead the United States,” said Gov. John Kasich of Ohio. Another Republican, Sen. Lindsay Graham of South Carolina, tweeted: “Every candidate for president needs to do the right thing & condemn @Realdonaldtrump's statement.”
特朗普的几名共和党对手对他的最新言论提出批评。俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)表示，“这只是更大程度上体现了他一直以来让人愤怒、极易挑起分歧的特点，也是他完全不适合领导美国的另一个原因。”南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)在Twitter发帖称，“所有总统候选人都需要做正确的事情，谴责@Realdonaldtrump的发言。”