WASHINGTON — Dear Donald,
华盛顿——亲爱的唐纳德，
We’ve known each other a long time, so I think I can be blunt.
我们已经相识很久了，所以我觉得我可以直言不讳。
You know how you said at campaign rallies that you did not like being identified as a politician?
你还记得你在竞选集会上说你不喜欢被看作政客吗？
Don’t worry. No one will ever mistake you for a politician.
别担心。没人会误认为你是政客。
After this past week, they won’t even mistake you for a top-notch negotiator.
在过去的一周之后，甚至没人会误认为你是一位顶尖的谈判者。
I was born here. The first image in my memory bank is the Capitol, all lit up at night. And my primary observation about Washington is this: Unless you’re careful, you end up turning into what you started out scorning.
我出生在这里，记忆中的第一个画面就是国会大厦，晚上它灯火通明。我对华盛顿最主要的观察是：除非你特别小心，否则你最终会变成你最初鄙视的人。
And you, Donald, are getting a reputation as a sucker. And worse, a sucker who is a tool of the D.C. establishment.
而你，唐纳德，作为容易受骗的傻瓜的名声正在慢慢树立。更糟糕的是，你是被华盛顿建制派愚弄的傻瓜。
Your whole campaign was mocking your rivals and the D.C. elite, jawing about how Americans had turned into losers, with our bad deals and open borders and the Obamacare “disaster.”
你在整个竞选过程中嘲弄你的对手和华盛顿精英，絮叨糟糕的协议、开放的边界以及奥巴马医改(Obamacare)的“灾难”如何把美国变成了输家。
And you were going to fly in on your gilded plane and fix all that in a snap.
你说你会坐上你的镀金飞机，来把所有这些问题马上解决掉。
You mused that a good role model would be Ronald Reagan. As you saw it, Reagan was a big, good-looking guy with a famous pompadour; he had also been a Democrat and an entertainer. But Reagan had one key quality that you don’t have: He knew what he didn’t know.
你觉得罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)是个好榜样。在你看来，里根高大英俊，留着著名的高卷发型；他也曾经是一个民主党人和娱乐人士。但里根有一项重要素质是你所不具备的：他知道自己不知道什么。
You both resembled Macy’s Thanksgiving Day balloons, floating above the nitty-gritty and focusing on a few big thoughts. But President Reagan was confident enough to accept that he needed experts below, deftly maneuvering the strings.
你们两个都像梅西百货(Macy’s)的感恩节气球，飘浮在事实真相之上，专注于几个宏大的想法。但里根总统有信心承认自己需要下面那些专家，替他巧妙地操纵运筹。
You’re just careering around on your own, crashing into buildings and losing altitude, growling at the cameras and spewing nasty conspiracy theories, instead of offering a sunny smile, bipartisanship, optimism and professionalism.
而你只管自己一个人横冲直撞，撞上建筑物，摇摇欲坠，对着摄像机咆哮，抛出讨厌的阴谋论，而不是展现灿烂的微笑以及两党合作、乐观和专业的精神。
You promised to get the best people around you in the White House, the best of the best. In fact, “best” is one of your favorite words.
你曾承诺把最优秀的人召集到白宫辅佐你——那些佼佼者中的佼佼者。“最好的”确实是你最喜欢的词之一。
Instead, you dragged that motley skeleton crew into the White House and let them create a feuding, leaking, belligerent, conspiratorial, sycophantic atmosphere. Instead of a smooth, classy operator like James Baker, you have a Manichaean anarchist in Steve Bannon.
但实际上，只有寥寥几个三教九流的人物被你带进白宫，让他们制造出争执、泄密、好斗、搞阴谋诡计、阿谀奉承的气氛。你没有选用詹姆斯·贝克(James Baker)那种精明优雅的行家，而是选用了史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)这种崇尚二元对立的无政府主义者。
You knew the Republicans were full of hot air. They haven’t had to pass anything in a long time, and they have no aptitude for governing. To paraphrase an old Barney Frank line, asking the Republicans to govern is like asking Frank to judge the Miss America contest — “If your heart’s not in it, you don’t do a very good job.”
你知道共和党人空话连篇。他们有很长时间都不必通过任何议案，没有任何执政能力。借用老巴尼·弗兰克(Barney Frank)的话说，让共和党执政就像让弗兰克做“美国小姐”的评委——“如果你的心思不在那上面，那么你就不会做得很好。”
You knew that Paul Ryan’s vaunted reputation as a policy wonk was fake news. Republicans have been running on repealing and replacing Obamacare for years and they never even bothered to come up with a valid alternative.
你知道，保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)说自己是政策专家是自吹自擂，是假新闻。共和党多年来一直想废除和取代奥巴马医保，但他们从未提出一个合理的替代方案。
And neither did you, despite all your promises to replace Obamacare with “something terrific” because you wanted everyone to be covered.
你也未能做到，尽管你曾承诺以“极好的方案”取代奥巴马医保，因为你想让每个人都能得到保障。
Instead, you sold the D.O.A. bill the Irish undertaker gave you as though it were a luxury condo, ignoring the fact that it was a cruel flimflam, a huge tax cut for the rich disguised as a health care bill. You were so concerned with the “win” that you forgot your “forgotten” Americans, the older, poorer people in rural areas who would be hurt by the bill.
相反，你像售卖豪华公寓那样售卖你的爱尔兰承办人给你的那个见光死的法案，你没意识到，它是一种残酷的欺诈，是一种伪装成医保法案的为富人削减巨额税金的手段。你太关心“胜利”了，以至于你忘记了那些“被遗忘的”美国人——农村地区的贫困老人，他们将被该法案伤害。
As The Times’s chief Washington correspondent Carl Hulse put it, the G.O.P. falls into clover with a lock on the White House and both houses of Congress, and what’s the first thing it does? Slip on a banana peel. Incompetence Inc.
正如时报的华盛顿首席记者卡尔·赫尔斯(Carl Hulse)所说的，共和党因为控制了白宫和国会两院而悠然自得，它做的第一件事是什么？踩在香蕉皮上滑倒。他们是个废物集团。
“They tried to sweeten the deal at the end by offering a more expensive bill with fewer health benefits, but alas, it wasn’t enough!” former Obama speechwriter Jon Favreau slyly tweeted.
“到最后，他们试图通过提供一个更昂贵、医疗保障更少的法案来美化这项交易，但是唉，它还不够！”奥巴马的前讲稿写手乔恩·法夫罗(Jon Favreau)在Twitter上打趣道。
Despite the best efforts of Bannon to act as though the whole fiasco was a clever way to bury Ryan — a man he disdains as “the embodiment of the ‘globalist-corporatist’ Republican elite,” as Gabriel Sherman put it in New York magazine — it won’t work.
尽管班农尽最大努力表现得好像这场惨败是埋葬瑞安的聪明方式——正如加布里埃尔·舍曼(Gabriel Sherman)在《纽约》(New York)杂志说的，班农把瑞安蔑称为“‘全球主义和社团主义’的共和党精英的代表”——但那并不管用。
And you can jump on the phone with The Times’s Maggie Haberman and The Washington Post’s Robert Costa — ignoring that you’ve labeled them the “fake media” — and act like you’re in control. You can say that people should have waited for “Phase 2” and “Phase 3” — whatever they would have been — and that Obamacare is going to explode and that the Democrats are going to get the blame. But it doesn’t work that way. You own it now.
你可以给时报的玛吉·哈伯曼(Maggie Haberman)和《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的罗伯特·科斯塔(Robert Costa)打电话——忘记你曾说他们是“假媒体”——表现得好像一切尽在你的掌控之中。你可以说，人们应该等到“第二阶段”和“第三阶段”——不管他们会遇到什么情况——那时奥巴马医保会崩溃，民主党将受到责备。但事情不是那么发展的。现在受到责备的是你。
You’re all about flashy marketing so you didn’t notice that the bill was junk, so lame that even Republicans skittered away.
你只管天花乱坠地宣传，没注意到这个法案是垃圾，拙劣得连共和党人都唯恐避之不及。
You were humiliated right out of the chute by the establishment guys who hooked you into their agenda — a massive transfer of wealth to rich people — and drew you away from your own.
你从一开始就被建制派的那些家伙给羞辱了，他们引诱你进入他们的计划——把巨额财富转移给富人的计划——诱导你偏离自己的计划。
You sold yourself as the businessman who could shake things up and make Washington work again. Instead, you got worked over by the Republican leadership and the business community, who set you up to do their bidding.
你曾吹嘘自己是个可以做出彻底变革，让华盛顿再次正常运行的商人。而实际上，你被共和党的领导层和商界人士利用了，他们诱骗你为他们卖命。
That’s why they’re putting up with all your craziness about Russia and wiretapping and unending lies and rattling our allies.
这就是为什么他们能容忍你在俄罗斯和窃听问题上做出荒唐的举动，容忍你无休止地撒谎，让盟国紧张不安。
They’re counting on you being a delusional dupe who didn’t even know what was in the bill because you’re sitting around in a bathrobe getting your information from wackadoodles on Fox News and then, as The Post reported, peppering aides with the query, “Is this really a good bill?”
他们指望的就是你容易痴心妄想，容易上当受骗，你甚至不知道那项法案的内容，因为你穿着浴袍悠闲地坐着，从福克斯新闻(Fox News)那帮蠢货那里获取信息，然后，就像《华盛顿邮报》报道的那样，你不断询问助手们，“这个法案真的好吗？”
You got played.
你被玩了。
It took W. years to smash everything. You’re way ahead of schedule.
乔治·W·布什花了很多年时间才毁掉一切。你可快多了。
And I can say you’re doing badly, because I’m a columnist, and you’re not. Say hello to everybody, O.K.?
我可以说你情况很糟，因为我是专栏作家，而你不是。帮我向大家问好吧？
Sincerely, Maureen
你真诚的，莫琳