WASHINGTON — Hark!
华盛顿——快看！
What light from yonder West Wing window breaks. A bright idea has somehow emerged from the dysfunctional, dystopian Trump White House.
远处白宫西翼的窗子在发光。一个聪明的点子从功能失调、反乌托邦的特朗普白宫里冒了出来。
And from the Grim Reaper, no less.
而且还是来自死神的点子。
Steve Bannon has not been partying in the Hamptons with Jared, Ivanka and Kellyanne. He has instead been lurking in his lair, scheming about a plan to raise taxes on the richest people in America and give tax cuts to the people who need them.
史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)没有和贾里德、伊万卡、凯莉安一起去参加汉普顿的大趴。相反，他潜伏在自己的巢穴，计划对美国最富有的人征税，并对需要减税的人减税。
As Jonathan Swan wrote when he broke the story in Axios, “It’s classic Bannon — pushing a maximalist position that’s reviled by the Republican establishment.”
正如乔纳森·斯万(Jonathan Swan)在他对Axios网站爆料的故事中写道：“这是典型的班农做法——推动被共和党建制派所痛恨的极大主义立场。”
Conservative craniums are exploding all over town. Mitch McConnell had already been worried that Donald Trump might revert to the pragmatist who gave Chuck Schumer and Hillary donations and triangulate with Democrats.
保守派的头盖骨已经被炸开。米奇·麦克康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)已经在担心，唐纳德·特朗普可能变回那个给查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)和希拉里捐款的实用主义者，并且和民主党人缠夹不清。
And Bannon’s fellow former Goldman Sachs money men, Gary Cohn and Steve Mnuchin, are rushing to strip away the tax burdens on the rich and corporations because, in the immortal words of Mitt Romney, “Corporations are people, my friend.”
班农的伙伴，前高盛金融高管加里·科恩(Gary Cohn)和史蒂夫·努钦(Steve Mnuchin)正急着免除富人和公司身上的税收负担，因为用米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)那句不朽的名言来说，“公司就是人，我的朋友。”
As Grover Norquist, the anti-tax evangelist, howled, “It’s a particularly cruel thing for Bannon to do.”
反税收的狂热鼓吹者格罗佛·诺奎斯特(Grover Norquist)大叫道，“班农这么做是格外残忍的。”
In his role as Keeper of the Essence, the one who tends the flame between Trump and his base, Bannon has been guilty of plenty of cruel things, from the botched travel ban to “American carnage” to the fixation with the wall to the offensive tripe in Breitbart when he ran it.
班农一直在扮演着“核心守护者”角色，悉心照管着特朗普与他的选民之间的火焰，他已经做过很多残酷的事情，从拙劣的旅行禁令到“美国浩劫”，从对墙的迷恋，到他在主持布莱巴特(Breitbart)网站期间那些挑衅的拙劣文章。
As the rumpled hero to white nationalists likes to say, “Darkness is good.”
正如这位白人民族主义者心目中不修边幅的英雄常说的，“黑暗是好事”。
But while this idea is going nowhere, it’s not cruel. Bannon is right to challenge his colleagues’ claim that the rich pour money from tax cuts back into the economy.
这个点子是毫无前景可言的，但它并不残酷。班农的同事声称，富有者会把从减税中获得的钱重新投入到经济中去，班农反对这一点是正确的。
If you give a tax cut to people who make a million a year or more, they save the money. But if you give a tax cut to working-class and poor people, they spend the money. So the multiplier effect for the economy is much higher with tax cuts for people who don’t have a lot of money.
如果你给年薪一百万元或以上的人减税，他们就会把这笔钱存起来。但是，如果你给工薪阶层和穷人减税，他们就会把这笔钱花掉。因此，对于没有大量资金的人，减税给经济带来的放大效应要高得多。
Bannon understands that if President Trump gave a raspberry to plutocrats, including all the ones in his own administration, he would grow more popular. (It would be hard to grow less popular.)
班农明白，如果特朗普总统给财阀们一点甜头——这包括了他自己政府中的所有人——他本可以更受欢迎。（他的受欢迎程度很难更低了）。
For all Trump’s insanity, he is in a unique place to do some interesting things because he’s not beholden to the usual suspects. He’s barely even a Republican, so it would be a smart strategy to work with Democrats on the things he agrees with, that Democrats can’t say no to.
虽然有诸多疯狂举动，特朗普此刻所处的位置，让他有机会做一些有趣的事情，因为他并不受制于通常的那些猜疑。他甚至可以说并不是共和党人，所以，与民主党人就他所赞同的事情合作，会是一个明智的策略，民主党人不能对他说不。
Why doesn’t Trump indulge his predilection for acting against expectations in a way that could be a boon to his base, or “my people,” as he calls them? Why squander all that combativeness and impulsiveness on Twitter insults? Why settle into an angry standoff with a majority of the country? It’s an exhausting dynamic that breeds a siege mentality — a mind-set that was succinctly described by Kellyanne Conway at a recent Washington dinner as “they hate us and we hate them.”
特朗普喜欢打破常规做事，他为什么不放纵自己的这种爱好，做些可能会对他的核心选民——或者用他的话说，“我的人”——有益的事情呢？为什么要为Twitter上的侮辱浪费力气，那样好斗和冲动呢？为什么要对大多数国家摆出一副愤怒的姿态呢？这是一种令人精疲力尽的力量，塑造出一种受困的心态——凯莉安·康威(Kellyanne Conway)前不久在华盛顿的一次晚宴上简洁地把这种心态描述为，“他们讨厌我们，我们讨厌他们。”
Why doesn’t Trump channel all that bile against the establishment and show us his purported negotiating skills by sitting down and working out an actual deal that could benefit a lot of the people in Trump country who need health care rather than backing the “mean” House and Senate plans that are going to hit rural America particularly hard?
为什么特朗普不释放他对建制派所有的愤怒，并通过坐下来制定一个实际的协议，而不是支持参众两院“小气”的，会令美国农村地区受到格外严重打击的计划，从而向我们展示他经常自我标榜的谈判技巧呢？这样的协议本可以使特朗普国家中的许多更需要医疗保险的人受益。
Instead, he is down the rabbit hole with Vladimir Putin. Much of his base does not appreciate it when the American president stands in the Oval Office yucking it up with Russian diplomats, oversharing our secrets and calling the F.B.I. director he just fired “a nut job.”
相反，他和弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)跳进了兔子洞。当美国总统站在椭圆形办公室里同俄罗斯外交官尽情欢笑，泄露我们的秘密，说自己刚刚解雇的联邦调查局局长是个“疯子”的时候，他的大部分选民都不喜欢这种事。
Even a lot of Trump voters are mystified about why Trump can’t put a lid on his id long enough to acknowledge that Russia besmirched our elections.
即使是很多投票给特朗普的人也弄不清，他为什么不能暂时控制住自己的傲气，承认俄罗斯破坏了我们的选举。
“It could very well have been Russia but I think it could well have been other countries, and I won’t be specific but I think a lot of people interfere,” President Trump said in Warsaw. “Nobody really knows.”
“很可能是俄罗斯，但我认为可能是其他国家，我不会具体说，但我认为很多人都参与了干涉，”特克普总统在华沙说：“没有人真的知道。”
He inanely tweeted from the G-20: “Everyone here is talking about why John Podesta refused to give the DNC server to the FBI and the CIA. Disgraceful!”
他在参加二十国集团首脑会议时无聊地发推：“这里的每个人都在谈论为什么约翰·波德斯塔(John Podesta)拒绝把DNC服务器交给联邦调查局和中央情报局。可耻！”
Even for a U.F.O. believer like Podesta, Trump’s claim was out of this world.
即使是对于波德斯塔这样一个相信UFO的人，特朗普的说法也太不着边际了。
In his attenuated first meeting with his side bae, Trump staged a Kabuki show of confronting the former K.G.B. agent.
在与情人冷淡的第一次会见中，特朗普面对前克格勃特工上演了一场歌舞伎表演。 
Their conversation boiled down to this:
他们的谈话可以归结为如下内容：
Trump: “Did you do it?”
特朗普：“是你干的吗？
Putin: “Nyet.”
普京：“不。”
Trump: “Whew! Glad that’s out of the way. So let’s do a joint cybersecurity program and share our passwords.”
特朗普：“哇！很高兴这不成问题了。所以让我们来搞个联合网络安全计划并且共享我们的密码吧。”
Putin: “Da.”
普京：“好。”
He should have had a showdown to rival the one Adlai Stevenson had at the U.N. with the Soviet ambassador on the Cuban missile crisis. “I am prepared to wait for an answer until hell freezes over,” Stevenson snapped.
他本应同对手进行一场对决，就像古巴导弹危机时阿德莱·史蒂文森(Adlai Stevenson)在联合国对抗苏联大使那样。“我在等待一个答案，我愿等到地狱冰封，”史蒂文森厉声说。
Trump should have slapped down the evidence and doled out the punishment. Instead, he and Putin commiserated about bumptious journalists.
特朗普本应拿出证据，给予惩罚。相反，他倒是和普京就狂妄的记者达成了共识。
“Polonium works well,” Putin was probably saying.
“钋的效果不错，”普京可能在说。
“Spasibo,” Trump probably replied.
“谢谢，”特朗普可能在用俄语回应。
In the end, Trump and fellow bumbling neophyte Rex Tillerson opened the portal wider for Putin to sneak through in coming elections.
最后，特朗普和身边笨拙的新手雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)为普京打开了方便之门，便于他进一步悄悄干涉未来的选举。
I don’t know how much information the tyro pol in the Oval has absorbed — or even wants to absorb — in his dumbed-down briefings. But, brainwashed by his father’s exhortation that the world belongs to “killers,” Trump clearly doesn’t recognize the danger before him.
我不知道这位政治新手在他椭圆形办公室里那些沉闷的简报会中吸收到了多少信息——甚至是想吸收多少信息。但是，由于父亲洗脑式地劝诫过他，世界是属于“杀手”的，特朗普显然意识不到自己面前的危险。
This is a simple fact he might want to let sink in: The Russians do not have our best interests at heart. They are conjuring Trump’s worst “1984” fear: playing him for a sucker.
这是一个他应该好好琢磨的简单事实：俄罗斯人才不会管我们的最高利益。他们在召唤出特朗普最糟糕的《1984》恐惧：把他当傻瓜耍。