WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald Trump plans to name former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas to lead the Energy Department, elevating a man who once could not remember the name of the agency he wanted to eliminate to the Cabinet post, secretary of energy, that will run it.
华盛顿――候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)计划任命德克萨斯州前州长里克·佩里(Rick Perry)为能源部长。佩里曾一度想要将能源部从内阁中撤销，但却记不起它的名字，如今却要成为运行这个部门的人。
“Oops,” Perry famously said in 2011 as he racked his brain during a nationally televised presidential debate, trying to remember the name of the Energy Department — the third Cabinet agency he intended to dismantle, after the Commerce and Education Departments.
“哎呀呀，”2011年，佩里在一场全国电视直播的总统辩论当中，绞尽脑汁也想不出能源部的名字，这件事出了名――当时他表示能源部是他打算取消的第三个内阁部门，位列商务部和教育部之后。
While Texas is rich in energy resources and Perry is an enthusiastic supporter of extracting them, it is not clear how that experience would translate into leading a department far more devoted to national security and basic science than fossil fuels. Despite its name, the Energy Department plays the leading role in designing nuclear weapons, thwarting their proliferation, and ensuring the safety and reliability of the nation’s aging nuclear arsenal through a constellation of laboratories considered the crown jewels of government science.
虽然德克萨斯州拥有丰富的能源，佩里也热心支持对这些资源的开采，但是比起化石燃料，能源部更专注于国家安全与基础科学，佩里的经验如何能够转化为对这一部门的领导，目前尚不分明。尽管能源部名为“能源”，但它在设计核武器并阻止其扩散方面发挥主导作用，它的一系列实验室被视为政府科学的皇冠上的宝石，它们确保着这个国家日渐老化的核武库安全可靠。
“The Rick Perry choice is so perplexing,” said former Sen. Byron L. Dorgan, D-N.D., who for years led the committee that oversees the Energy Department’s budget.
“里克·佩里这个选择令人困惑，”前北达科他州民主党参议员拜伦·L·多根(Byron L. Dorgan)说，在很多年里，他领导着一个监督能源部预算的委员会。
“I think very few people understand that the Energy Department, to a very substantial degree, is dealing with nuclear weapons,” he added. “And Rick Perry suggested the agency should be abolished. That suggests he thinks it doesn’t have value.”
“我认为很少有人了解，能源部在很大程度上是在处理与核武器相关的事务，”他补充说。“还有，里克·佩里建议该机构应该废除。这表明他认为它没有价值。”
About 60 percent of the Energy Department’s budget is devoted to managing the National Nuclear Security Administration, which defines its mission as enhancing national security through the military application of nuclear science.
能源部的预算大约有60％用于运行国家核安全管理局(National Nuclear Security Administration)，该局的任务是通过核科学在军事方面的应用来加强国家安全。
The last two energy secretaries, Ernest J. Moniz of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Steven Chu of Stanford, brought to the office their doctorates in physics, their academic credentials and, in Chu’s case, a Nobel Prize.
此前两任能源部长分别是麻省理工学院的欧内斯特·J·莫尼斯(Ernest J. Moniz)和斯坦福大学的朱棣文(Steven Chu)，他们上任时都拥有物理博士学位和学术资质，朱棣文还曾获得诺贝尔奖。
Perry, 66, would bring a different set of credentials: governor of Texas from 2000 to 2015 and, before that, a stint as the Texas agriculture commissioner. He holds a bachelor’s degree in animal science from Texas A&M University. In his 2010 book “Fed Up! Our Fight to Save America From Washington,” Perry called the established science of human-caused climate change a “contrived, phony mess.”
66岁的佩里上任时带来的则是另一套完全不同的资质：他于2000年至2015年任德克萨斯州州长，在此之前曾担任德克萨斯州农业局局长。他拥有德克萨斯农工大学的动物学学士学位。在他于2010年出版的《受够了！我们从华盛顿手中拯救美国的战斗》(Fed Up! Our Fight to Save America From Washington)一书中，佩里把人类引起气候变化这一科学共识称为“具有欺骗性的，虚构出来的一团糟。”