President Donald Trump was at his desk in the Oval Office and on the phone with the new prime minister of Ireland on Tuesday when a journalist for an Irish news organization caught his eye.
周二，唐纳德·特朗普正坐在椭圆形办公室的办公桌前与新任爱尔兰总理通话，这时一名爱尔兰新闻机构的记者引起了他的注意。
“Well, we have a lot of your Irish press watching us,” Trump said to the prime minister, Leo Varadkar, as several reporters looked on.
“嗯，我这边有好多你们爱尔兰的媒体在看着我们，”特朗普在几名记者的注视下对利奥·瓦拉德卡(Leo Varadkar)总理说。
Then, interrupting his conversation with Varadkar, Trump pointed at the journalist, Caitriona Perry, and gestured for her to come to him.
然后，特朗普中断与瓦拉德卡的谈话，指着那个名叫凯特里奥娜·佩里(Caitriona Perry)的记者，做手势让她过来。
“And where are you from?” he said. “Go ahead. Come here, come here. Where are you from? We have all of this beautiful Irish press.”
“你是哪个媒体的？”他说。“往前走。到这儿来，到这儿来。你是哪个媒体的？这么多出色的爱尔兰媒体都来了。”
After she introduced herself, Trump told Varadkar, “She has a nice smile on her face so I bet she treats you well.”
在她做了自我介绍之后，特朗普对瓦拉德卡讲道，“她的笑容很美，我猜她肯定对你不错。”
The exchange, which was captured on video and widely shared on social media, drew criticism about how Trump treats women and the message it sent about the attitude toward women as professionals in their fields.
这段对话被拍成视频，在社交媒体上广泛传播开来，特朗普对待女性的方式，以及视频中传递出的对待专业女性的态度引发了指责。
Elisa Lees Muñoz, executive director of the International Women’s Media Foundation, said on Wednesday that she had heard about the episode in passing.
国际妇女媒体基金会(International Women’s Media Foundation)执行董事埃莉萨·莱斯·穆诺茨(Elisa Lees Muñoz)周三表示，她听人提到了这件事。
After a transcript of the exchange was read to her over the phone, she said: “Oh, Lord. I wish I could say this is a surprise.”
在记者通过电话给她念了那段对话之后，她说，“噢，天哪。我真希望我能说这让人很吃惊。”
She said such occurrences were not limited to Trump, adding that female journalists are frequently called out for their appearance, their hair and the way they dress.
她表示，这种情况不止在特朗普身上发生，还提到女性媒体工作者经常因为自己的外貌、发型或衣着被点名叫出来。
Comments like the president’s detract from a woman’s value as a professional, she said.
她还表示，类似总统这样的言论贬低了一名女性作为职业人士的价值。
“We absolutely do not see that happening with male reporters,” she said. “I don’t know what the solution to this is. It does need to be called out. It does need to stop.”
“我们绝不会看到这种情况发生在男性记者身上，”她说。“我不知道有什么办法可以解决这种问题。这确实需要大声疾呼，需要被制止。”
On Twitter, some users reacted with revulsion.
有些用户在Twitter上表达了对此事的反感。
Deb Curry wrote: “Please, don’t judge us by this man. My husband would never treat you like this in a workplace. So inappropriate.”
德布·库里(Deb Curry)写道：“请不要依据这个男人来评价我们。在职场上，我丈夫永远不会这么对待你。太不得体了。”
Others defended the president and said he was complimenting Perry.
也有人为总统辩护，说他是在称赞佩里。
Twitter user Mike Boyd wrote: “Our generation calls what POTUS did a simple act of dignity and kindness. When kindness is mistaken for being bizarre, it’s a sad commentary.”
名为迈克·博伊德(Mike Boyd)的Twitter用户写道：“我们这一代认为美国总统只是做了一件体面而又友善的事。善意被错认为怪异，这种评价真让人难过。”