President Trump ordered a widening of American sanctions on North Korea on Thursday in an effort to further constrict its trade with the outside world, as he presented a united front with South Korea and Japan and sought to forge a common strategy for confronting the isolated nuclear-armed state.
周四，特朗普总统下令扩大对朝鲜的制裁，进一步限制该国与外界的贸易往来，同时他展示了与韩国与日本的统一战线，力图打造一个共同战略来面对这个孤立的核武国家。
A new executive order that Mr. Trump announced would target additional North Korean entities and suggested that he was still committed to economic pressure for now, rather than military action, despite his vow to “totally destroy North Korea” if the United States were forced to defend itself or its allies.
特朗普发布了一项新的行政命令，将对更多的朝鲜实体进行制裁，这表明他目前仍然致力于施加经济压力，而不是采取军事行动，尽管他扬言说如果美国不得不保卫自己和盟友的话，一定会“彻底摧毁朝鲜”。
“North Korea’s nuclear program is a grave threat to peace and security in our world, and it is unacceptable that others financially support this criminal, rogue regime,” he said as he hosted President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan for lunch in New York. “The brutal North Korean regime does not respect its own citizens or the sovereignty of other nations.”
“朝鲜核计划是对世界和平与安全的重大威胁，而其他国家在经济上支持这个有罪的流氓政权是不可接受的，”他在纽约款待韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)、日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)共进午餐时表示。“野蛮的朝鲜政权不尊重自己的公民和其他国家的主权。”
Mr. Trump said his new order would enhance the Treasury Department’s authority to target individuals or businesses that conduct significant trade in goods, services or technology with North Korea. It will place new limits on textile, fishing, information technology and manufacturing industries, he said, and in an effort to prevent sanctions evasion, will include measures aimed at North Korean shipping and trade networks.
特朗普说，新命令将扩大财政部的权力，打击那些在商品、服务或技术上与朝鲜有重大贸易往来的个人或企业。他说，新制裁将对朝鲜的纺织、渔业、信息技术和制造业施加更多限制，为了防止该国逃脱制裁，还会对他们的航运和贸易网络采取行动。
North Korea has raised the temperature in the region by testing a nuclear bomb and intercontinental ballistic missiles in recent weeks. But it has withstood an array of American and international sanctions for years, and it remains unclear whether the latest round will have any greater impact. Just last week, the United Nations Security Council approved an American-drafted resolution tightening limits on North Korean trade, although it did not go as far as the Trump administration wanted.
近几周来，朝鲜进行的核测试和洲际弹道导弹测试加剧了该地区的紧张气氛。但是该国多年来经受住了美国和国际的一系列制裁，目前还不清楚最新一轮是否会对该国产生更大的影响。就在上周，联合国安理会批准了美国起草的一项决议，加大了对朝鲜的贸易限制力度，尽管距离特朗普政府建议的力度还是有差距。
Some critics of Mr. Trump praised him on Thursday for focusing on diplomatic pressure rather than saber rattling. R. Nicholas Burns, a former under secretary of state under President George W. Bush, said the new American sanctions were “a smart move” because the latest United Nations resolution was insufficient.
特朗普的一些批评者周四称赞他把重心放在了外交压力而不是武力威胁上。小布什时期的副国务卿R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R.Nicholas Burns)表示，美国的新制裁是“一个聪明的举动”，因为联合国最近的决议做得还不够。
“The U.S. sanctions will help to raise the cost to North Korea of its nuclear weapons buildup,” said Mr. Burns, who now teaches at Harvard. Referring to the United Nations Security Council, he added: “The Bush and Obama administrations pursued a similar path on Iran sanctions — both U.N.S.C. and American unilateral sanctions — which proved effective.”
目前在哈佛大学任教的伯恩斯说：“美国的制裁将有助于增加朝鲜研制核武器的成本。”在提到联合国安理会的时候，他说：“布什和奥巴马政府在伊朗的制裁方面也选择了类似的道路——联合国安理会和美国单方面制裁双管齐下——事实证明这很有效。”
The new sanctions came as Mr. Trump hosted Mr. Moon and Mr. Abe for a show of solidarity on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly. The most important regional player, however, was not in New York: President Xi Jinping of China. He skipped this year’s United Nations session.
新的制裁是在联合国大会期间，特朗普款待文在寅和安倍晋三以展示团结一致的时候发布的。然而，该地区影响力最大的中国主席习近平却不在纽约。他没有参加今年的联合国会议。
Still, Mr. Trump spent an hour on the telephone with Mr. Xi earlier in the week, and on Thursday he hailed what he called a “very bold move” by China’s central bank to limit interactions with North Korea. “That was a somewhat unexpected move and we appreciate it,” Mr. Trump said.
不过，特朗普本周早些时候和习近平通了一个小时的电话，周四他称赞中国央行采取“非常大胆的举动”，限制与朝鲜的经贸往来。特朗普说：“这有点出乎意料，我们很是感激。”
Mr. Abe, who has been largely aligned with Mr. Trump’s approach, offered words of support on Thursday. “Dialogue for the sake of dialogue will not produce anything,” Mr. Abe said. “The key at this moment is to exercise and apply pressure against North Korea in a robust manner. And together with Donald, we’ve been successfully demonstrating our strong will to exercise pressure against North Korea.”
安倍晋三的态度基本上与特朗普一致，周四他表示了支持。“为了对话而进行的对话不会产生任何成果，”安倍晋三说。“现在的关键是以强有力的方式对朝鲜施加压力。我们与唐纳德一起，成功地展示了对朝鲜施加压力的强烈意志。”
Mr. Moon has been the odd man out of the three, arguing for more engagement and opposing any military action on the Korean Peninsula. Mr. Trump has derided this approach, calling it “appeasement” and declaring that “talking is not the answer.”
在这三个人当中，文在寅的意见有所不同，他主张更多地进行沟通，反对在朝鲜半岛采取任何军事行动。特朗普嘲笑这种做法是“绥靖”，并宣称“对话解决不了问题”。
No mention was made of that on Thursday, however, as the president said that the United States and South Korea were “making a lot of progress” together and Mr. Moon embraced Mr. Trump’s bellicose speech to the General Assembly on Tuesday.
但是周四没有提到这些方面，特朗普说美国和韩国一起“取得了很大进展”，周二的时候，文在寅也拥护了特朗普周二在联大演讲中的好战言论。
“North Korea has continued to make provocations, and this is extremely deplorable and this has angered both me and our people,” Mr. Moon said when he met with Mr. Trump before their lunch. “But the United States has responded firmly and in a very good way.” He told Mr. Trump: “You made a very strong speech, and I believe the strength of your speech will also help to change North Korea.”
“朝鲜继续挑衅，这非常可悲，激怒了我和我们的人民。”文在寅在共进午餐前对特朗普说。“但是美国已经以很好的方式做出了坚定的回应。”他对特朗普说：“你的演讲非常有力，我相信你在演讲中表现的力量将有助于改变朝鲜。”
Yet earlier in the day, Mr. Moon used his own address to the General Assembly to urge world leaders to “peacefully solve the North Korea nuclear issue,” step up diplomatic pressure and do everything possible to prevent war on the Korean Peninsula.
但在当天早些时候，文在寅在自己的演讲中极力敦促世界各国领导人“和平解决朝鲜核问题”，加大外交压力，竭力防止朝鲜半岛爆发战争。
Mr. Moon told the audience that he had been born during the Korean War and that his father had died while displaced from home. He urged world leaders to increase sanctions so that North Korea is compelled to choose what he called “the path of dialogue.” And he urged Pyongyang to “abandon its hostile policies against other countries and give up its nuclear weapons program in a verifiable and irreversible way.”
文在寅告诉听众说，他是在朝鲜战争时期出生的，一家人流离失所，父亲也在这期间过世。他呼吁世界各国领导人加大制裁力度，使朝鲜不得不选择“对话之路”。他还呼吁平壤“放弃对其他国家的敌对政策，放弃核武器计划，做到可以核查、不可逆转。”
The speech was a counterpoint to the Trump administration’s threats. “All of our endeavors are to prevent the outbreak of war from breaking out and maintain peace,” Mr. Moon said. “In that respect, the situation surrounding the North Korean nuclear issue needs to be managed stably so that tensions will not become overly intensified or accidental military clashes will not destroy peace.”
他的演讲与特朗普政府发出的威胁截然不同。“我们所有的努力都是为了防止战争爆发，维护和平。”文在寅说，“在这方面，我们需要稳定妥善应对这朝鲜核问题，不要让紧张局势过度加剧，也不要让意外的军事冲突破坏和平。”
Mr. Moon sought to reassure the North about the South’s ambitions. “We do not desire the collapse of North Korea,” he said. “We will not seek unification by absorption or artificial means. If North Korea makes a decision even now to stand on the right side of history, we are ready to assist North Korea together with the international community.”
文在寅试图让朝鲜相信韩国的企图。“我们不希望朝鲜崩溃，”他说。“我们不会用吞并或者人为方式寻求统一。如果朝鲜现在做出一个决定，站在了历史正确的一侧，我们会和国际社会一起帮助朝鲜。”
The speech came a day after North Korea likened Mr. Trump to a “dog barking.”
在他发表这个演讲的前一天，朝鲜将特朗普比作了“狗吠”。
“Back home, we have a saying: The dog barks, but the caravan continues,” North Korea’s foreign minister, Ri Yong-ho, told reporters in New York on Wednesday when asked about Mr. Trump’s speech. “If he thought he could scare us with the noise of a dog barking, well, he should be daydreaming.”
“在我国，有句话叫：尽管群狗乱吠，旅行队照常前进（意为我行我素——译注），”朝鲜外交部长李勇浩(Ri Yong-ho)周三在纽约表被问到对特朗普演讲的看法时表示。“如果他以为能用狗乱吠的声音吓到我们，好吧，那他就是在做白日梦。”
Vice President Mike Pence said Mr. Trump hoped to use Thursday’s meetings with South Korean and Japanese leaders to marshal “the economic and diplomatic power of the region and the wider world to achieve a peaceable outcome.”
副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)表示，特朗普希望周四与韩日领导人的会面将引导“该地区和更大范围的经济和外交力量达成一个和平成果”。
Still, he said Mr. Trump was serious about his threat. “We do not desire a military conflict,” Mr. Pence said. “But the president has made it very clear, as he did at the U.N. this week, that all options are on the table and we are simply not going to tolerate a rogue regime in Pyongyang obtaining usable nuclear weapons that could be mounted on a ballistic missile and threaten the people of the United States or our allies.”
不过他也表示，特朗普发出的威胁是认真的。“我们不希望发生军事冲突，”彭斯说。“但是，总统已经说得很清楚，就像是本周在联合国的演讲中说的那样，所有的选择都摆在桌面上，我们绝对不会容忍平壤的流氓政权获得有效的、可以搭载在弹道导弹上的核武器，来威胁美国或我们的盟友。”