Pick your favorite irony:
以下几件讽刺的事，你最喜欢哪个？
1) Donald Trump turns out to be terrible at firing people.
1) 原来唐纳德·特朗普非常不擅于解雇人。
2) The White House celebrates its “American Heroes Week” by banning transgender volunteers from serving in the military.
2) 白宫通过禁止变性志愿者从军来庆祝“美国英雄周”(American Heroes Week)。
3) Thanks to the president’s harangues, we are actually starting to feel sympathy for Jeff Sessions.
3) 由于总统的斥责，我们居然开始同情杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)。
I can definitely understand if you want to pick No. 2, especially since Trump just finished observing “Made in America Week” with an application to hire 70 foreign workers at Mar-a-Lago.
如果你想选第二个，我完全能够理解，尤其是自从特朗普通过申请在马阿拉歌庄园雇佣70名外国工人来结束“美国制造周”的庆祝活动之后。
But let’s talk for a minute about the way our president gets rid of unwanted members of his administration. It’s a monument to passive-aggressive ineptitude. With Sessions, Trump has been broadcasting his displeasure to the world for more than a week without making the obvious follow-through.
但是，让我们花一分钟时间谈谈总统是如何清除自己政府中不想要的人的。那是被动攻击型无能的集中展示。一周多来，特朗普已经向全世界表达他对塞申斯的不快，却没有采取明显的跟进行动。
And this was the guy who made “You’re fired!” his calling card. Clearly, he brought a lot of fiction to reality TV. Clay Aiken, a onetime contestant on “The Celebrity Apprentice,” recently told an interviewer that Trump actually “didn’t decide who got fired on ‘Apprentice,’” and had to be fed his lines by producers.
而这是一个把“你被解雇了”当作自己招牌的人。显然，他给电视真人秀注入了很多虚构。前不久，《名人学徒》(Celebrity Apprentice)的参赛者克雷·艾肯(Clay Aiken)在接受采访时表示，特朗普实际上“在《学徒》中并不能决定谁被解雇，他的台词都是制作人给他的”。
Not exactly a shock, but watching the president in action over recent weeks, you have to wonder how he’d have functioned if he ran that show without prompting.
这谈不上是意外，但是看着总统过去几周的行动，你难免会想，如果在那个节目上，没人给他提词，他会是什么表现。
On Sunday, “Celebrity Apprentice” promises “fireworks” when Donald Trump tells other people he has no confidence in Rhoda, the beleaguered fashion model and ferret breeder. It will be the seventh week in which the real estate superstar has said unpleasant things about Rhoda to her friends, family and American viewers. Tension rises as contestants wait to see if their mentor will continue his strategy or send a bodyguard to deliver the bad news to Rhoda in person.
周日，当唐纳德·特朗普对其他人说，他对罗达(Rhoda)毫无信心时，《名人学徒》承诺了一场“炒鱿鱼”大餐。罗达是遭到围攻的时尚模特和雪貂饲养者。这将是这位地产明星第七周当着罗达的朋友、家人和美国观众的面说她的坏话。情况变得更加紧张，参赛者在观望他们的导师是会继续自己的策略，还是派一名保镖去当面向罗达传达坏消息。
Trump’s attempts to drive Sessions out of office without actually confronting him began last week with his famous New York Times interview and then escalated through press conferences and the social media (“VERY weak”). In one tweet Trump referred to Sessions as “our beleaguered A.G.” Now “beleaguered” means under attack, and this was sort of like taking a jackhammer to the street in front of your house and then complaining to the city about potholes.
特朗普想在不与塞申斯正面交锋的情况下把他赶下台，这种努力始于上周他接受《纽约时报》的那次著名采访，后来通过新闻发布会和社交媒体（他说塞申斯“非常软弱”）进一步升级。特朗普在一篇推文中称塞申斯是“我们被围困的司法部长”。现在，“被围困”的意思是遭到攻击，这有点像拿着一把风钻站在你家门前的路上，然后向市政府投诉路面有坑。
On another occasion Trump said he was “disappointed” in Sessions. This was during a press conference with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri in which the president took a few questions after praising Hariri for being “on the front lines in the fight against ISIS, Al Qaeda and Hezbollah.” Carping minds noted that Hariri actually has a power-sharing arrangement with Hezbollah, which controls most of the people in his cabinet. But if you wanted a president who was going to split hairs, you should have voted for somebody else.
特朗普还在另一个场合称自己对塞申斯“感到失望”。那是在与黎巴嫩总理萨阿德·哈里里(Saad Hariri)举行的一次新闻发布会上。总统在赞扬哈里里站在“打击伊斯兰国、基地组织和真主党的前沿”后，接受了几个提问。吹毛求疵的人会说，哈里里实际上与真主党共享权力，后者控制他的内阁的大部分成员。但是，如果你想要一位能把细节弄清楚的总统，那么你当初就应该投票选别人。
O.K., I know, I know.
好吧，我知道，我知道。
Trump appears completely unaware that he’s beginning to look like the worst terminator in history. Introducing Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, at an event this week, the president jovially said that Price had better get the health care bill passed through Congress, “otherwise, I’ll say: ‘Tom, you’re fired.’ I’ll get somebody.”
特朗普似乎完全没意识到，他现在看上去像是史上最糟糕的终结者。本周，总统在一场活动上介绍卫生和公共服务部部长汤姆·普赖斯(Tom Price)时打趣说，普赖斯，你最好让国会通过医保法案，“否则我会说，‘汤姆，你被解雇了。’我会聘请别人”。
This was at that Boy Scouts jamboree when Trump did such a great job of impersonating your Uncle Fred Who Gets Drunk at Family Dinners. How many of you think the Boy Scouts have been yearning for the day when the president would come to their big event, tell the teens that their federal government is a “sewer,” recount a long and incoherent story about a real estate developer who went off to make whoopee on his yacht, and brag incessantly about having won the election? On the plus side, Trump did not misrepresent the Scout position on Hezbollah.
这一次是在童子军大会上，特朗普精彩地演绎了“家庭聚餐会上醉醺醺的弗雷德大叔”。你们中间有多少人认为，童子军们翘首期盼的是这样一天：总统来到他们的盛大活动现场，对着十几岁的孩子们说，他们的联邦政府是“下水道”，还讲了一个冗长而混乱的关于一名地产开发商在他的游艇上狂欢的故事，此外还不停吹嘘自己赢得了大选？不过，往好了想，在真主党的问题上，特朗普没有搞错童子军的立场。
Trump has been complaining a lot about Sessions’s lack of loyalty, which might have confused people who remembered that Sessions was the first senator to endorse his presidential campaign, back in February of 2016. You’d think that standing up to fellow Republicans who regarded Trump as a dangerous lunatic should have merited a little bit of long-run gratitude.
特朗普多次抱怨塞申斯不忠诚，这可能会让某些人感到迷惑，他们还记得，在2016年2月，第一个支持特朗普竞选总统的参议员就是塞申斯。你可能会认为，站出来对抗其他认为特朗普是危险的疯子的共和党人，应该会为他赢得一点更持久的感激。
Trump cleared all that up, however, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal where he explained that Sessions’s endorsement was “not like a great loyal thing,” but merely an insignificant politician trying to feed off his star power and crowd-drawing charisma. (“He was a senator from Alabama. … He looks at 40,000 people and he probably says, ‘What do I have to lose?’ And he endorsed me.”)
不过，特朗普在接受《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)采访时澄清了这一点，他说塞申斯的支持“并不是多了不起的忠诚”，只是一名无足轻重的政客想蹭他的明星影响力和吸引观众的魅力（“他是亚拉巴马州的参议员……他看着四万人，很可能心想，‘我有什么好失去的?’所以他选择支持我”）。
Now Trump wants Sessions gone so he can replace him with an attorney general who will fire special counsel Robert Mueller. Sessions can’t do it because he recused himself from all things Russia-related.
现在，特朗普想让塞申斯下台，这样他就能聘用一名可以解雇特别检察官罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)的司法部长。塞申斯不能这样做，因为他必须回避所有与俄罗斯相关的事务。
Mueller’s probe into the Trump camp’s relationship with Russia terrifies the president, especially if it involves an investigation of Trump family finances. So obviously, we are rooting for Sessions to stay right where he is … and, um, keep persecuting immigrants, ratchet up imprisonments for nonviolent crimes and maybe go back to his old dream of imposing the death penalty on marijuana dealers.
穆勒对特朗普竞选团队与俄罗斯关系的调查令总统恐惧，尤其是如果它涉及对特朗普家族财务情况的调查的话。所以很显然，我们支持塞申斯留任，让他可以……呃，继续迫害移民，加强对非暴力罪犯的监禁，甚至接着做判处大麻贩子死刑的旧梦。
Well, I told you this was about irony.
我说了，这些都是有讽刺意味的事。