On the financial disclosure forms that Donald J. Trump has pointed to as proof of his tremendous success, no venture looks more gold-plated than his golf resort in Doral, Fla., where he reported revenues of $50 million in 2014. That figure accounted for the biggest share of what he described as his income for the year.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)将自己的那些财务披露报表指为自己取得巨大成功的证据，上面的信息看似显示，没有哪个公司比他在佛罗里达州多拉尔的高尔夫度假村更赚钱。根据他的报表，该度假村2014年的收入为5000万美元。这笔进账占据了他所声称的自己年收入的最大份额。
But this summer, a considerably different picture emerged in an austere government hearing room in Miami, where Mr. Trump’s company was challenging the resort’s property tax bill.
但是，今年夏天，特朗普的公司在迈阿密一间朴素的政府听证室对该度假村的不动产税收账单提出质疑——一幅迥然不同的画面由此浮出水面。
Mr. Trump’s lawyer handed the magistrate an income and expense statement showing that the gross revenue had indeed been $50 million. But after paying operating costs, the resort had actually lost $2.4 million.
特朗普的律师向地方法官提交了一份收入和支出报表，表明该度假村的总收入的确是5000万美元，但是在支付营业成本后，它实际上亏损了240万美元。
Mr. Trump has repeatedly held out his financial disclosures as a justification for breaking with tradition and refusing to release his personal tax returns. “You don’t learn that much from tax returns,” he said in September during his first debate with Hillary Clinton. “You learn a lot from financial disclosure. And you should go down and take a look at that.”
特朗普多次以那些财务披露报表作为自己打破传统、拒绝公布个人纳税申报表的理由。“你从纳税申报表上了解不到多少信息，”今年9月，在与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的首场辩论中，他这样说。“你能从财务披露报表中获得很多信息。你应该去仔细看看那个。”
But an examination of his tax appeals on several properties, and other documents obtained by The New York Times through Freedom of Information requests, shows that what Mr. Trump has reported on those forms is nowhere near a complete picture of his financial state.
但是，通过仔细研究《纽约时报》根据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information)获得的他就多项不动产提起的税收申诉状及其他文件，我们发现，特朗普在那些报表中所呈现的东西与他完整的财务状况大相径庭。
The records demonstrate that large portions of those numbers represent cash coming into his businesses before covering costs like mortgage payments, payroll and maintenance. After expenses, some of his businesses make a small fraction of what he reported on his disclosure forms, or actually lose money.
这些记录表明，那些数字大部分是支付抵押贷款还款、员工工资和维修费用之前的公司进账。支付那些费用后，他的一些公司赚的钱仅是他在财务披露报表中声称的利润的一小部分，或者实际上在亏损。
In fact, it is virtually impossible to determine from the forms just how much he is earning in any year.
实际上，要从这些报表中确定他任何一年的收入，基本是不可能的。
Mr. Trump appears to have used a provision in federal ethics laws that allows business owners to list gross revenue, as opposed to net income after expenses, on their disclosure forms. But he does not seem to have completely acknowledged that choice. Rather, he has suggested that the figures on the form represent money in his pocket.
特朗普似乎利用了联邦道德法规中的一个条款，该条款允许企业主在自己的披露报表中列出毛收入，而非去除开支后的净收入。但他似乎也没有完全承认自己做出了这个选择。相反，他表示报表上的数字代表了他的实际收入。
In news releases, the Trump campaign said that “Mr. Trump’s income” listed in a disclosure form filed last year was $362 million, and was more than $557 million in a form filed this year. During the debate with Mrs. Clinton in September, he mentioned an even larger figure.
特朗普的竞选团队曾在他们发布的新闻稿中表示，去年发布的披露表显示“特朗普的收入”为3.62亿美元，今年的则超过了5.57亿美元。而在今年9月与克林顿进行辩论期间，特朗普甚至提到了一个更大的数字。
“It shows income … in fact, the income — I just looked today — the income is filed at $694 million for this past year, $694 million,” Mr. Trump said. “If you would have told me I was going to make that 15 or 20 years ago, I would have been very surprised.”
“上面显示的收入……实际上，里面的收入——我今天刚看过——里面披露的过去一年的收入是6.94亿美元，6.94亿美元，”特朗普说。“如果你在15或20年前告诉我，我会赚这么多钱，我会非常吃惊的。”
A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, Hope Hicks, declined to answer questions about how Mr. Trump had reported his income, saying only that his disclosure form “speaks for itself.”
特朗普的女发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)拒绝回答有关特朗普如何公布自己收入的问题，只表示他的财务披露报表“说明了一切”。
Another seeming cash cow, at least as far as the forms portray it, is 40 Wall Street, an Art Deco office building in Lower Manhattan that Mr. Trump has spoken of as perhaps the greatest bargain he ever struck.
另一个貌似摇钱树的物业——至少报表上是这么显示——是华尔街40号大厦(40 Wall Street)，那是位于曼哈顿下城的一座装饰派风格建筑。在特朗普口中，那可能是他做成的最划算的一桩生意。
“I make approximately $20 million a year in rentals from 40 Wall Street and the building is now worth $500 million,” Mr. Trump wrote in “Trump Never Give Up,” published in 2008. “So, aside from owning the most beautiful building in Lower Manhattan, I have the added attraction of making a profit.”
“我从华尔街40号大厦每年能获得大约2000万美元的租金收入，这栋楼现在价值5亿美元，”他在2008年出版的《特朗普自述：永不放弃》(Trump Never Give Up)一书中写道。“所以，除了拥有曼哈顿下城最美的建筑之外，我还能顺带用它赚钱。”
On his financial disclosure forms, Mr. Trump listed the income he derived from rents in the building in the highest category on the form — more than $5 million. (The form requires listing monetary ranges for most types of income, and precise dollar figures where the gross revenue of a business is provided.)
在财务披露报表中，特朗普将他从这栋建筑获得的租金收入列在了报表的最高类别中——超过500万美元。（这些报表要求列出大多数类型收入的金额区间，需要提供毛收入的地方还要列出具体金额。）
But the income and expense statement that he filed with the New York City Tax Commission to appeal his property taxes shows that after mortgage payments and other costs, the building produced a cash flow of about $104,000 in 2014. Over the previous three years, it had generated a negative cash flow of $5.5 million, as the fallout of the 2008 financial crisis took a toll on downtown office buildings.
但他为提起不动产税减税申诉而向纽约市税务委员会(New York City Tax Commission)提交的收入与开支报表显示，去掉贷款按揭和其他开支后，这栋建筑2014年实际产生的现金流为10.4万美元左右。之前三年，它则产生了550万美元的负现金流，因为2008年金融危机的后续影响对市中心的办公楼出租造成重创。
Last year, the building rebounded and turned a significant profit: Occupancy rose to 95 percent, according to securities filings. The building’s cash flow after expenses was just under $3 million, still well below the more than $5 million that Mr. Trump reported on his disclosure forms. The building also paid the Trump Organization $966,000 last year in management fees.
去年，该物业扭亏为盈，产生了可观的利润：证券备案文件显示，入住率上升到了95%。但去除开支之后，该物业的现金收入只有不到300万美元，依然远远低于特朗普在披露报表中上报的逾500万美元。去年，该物业还向特朗普集团(Trump Organization)缴纳了96.6万美元的管理费。
The recent negative cash flow at two of Mr. Trump’s premier properties raises possible motivations he may have for not releasing his tax returns: They could show that his success is not as he has claimed, or that he pays little or nothing in federal taxes. That could be a continuation of a long trend. An article last month in The Times revealed that Mr. Trump’s 1995 tax records showed a $916 million loss that could have allowed Mr. Trump to legally avoid paying federal income taxes for up to 18 years.
特朗普最重要的两处不动产最近出现负现金流，这可能是他不公布纳税申报表的一部分原因：这些报表会显示出他并不像自己声称的那么成功，或证明他只缴纳了很少的联邦税，或者根本没有缴纳。而且可能长久以来一直如此。时报上月发表的一篇报道披露，特朗普在1995年的纳税表中上报了9.16亿美元的损失，这可能使他合法地在最长达18年的时间里不用缴纳联邦收入所得税。
While the property tax appeals are a useful reality check on individual properties, they provide an imperfect window to Mr. Trump’s overall income and wealth.
尽管不动产税减税申诉对核实单个不动产的现状非常有用，但通过它们看到的特朗普的整体收入和财产状况就不太完美了。
The income and expense statements in such appeals are not available on every Trump property for every year. Also, the performance of a few properties cannot reflect the entirety of Mr. Trump’s endeavors, which have included the successful “Apprentice” reality television series as well as naming rights and management fees he earns from buildings in New York and elsewhere. And the nine-figure numbers Mr. Trump presents as his income do not include streams like royalties, investments and capital gains.
这类申诉文件中不会有特朗普每处不动产每年的收支报表。而且，一些不动产的表现也不能反映特朗普商业活动的整体情况，例如其成功的《学徒》系列真人秀节目，以及他向纽约内外的诸多建筑收取的冠名费和管理费。此外，特朗普对外公布的九位数收入也没有包括版税、投资和资本收益等资金流。
But the appeals do show a level of detail absent in other documents that have become public. While appeals on residential properties are based on appraisals that have a level of subjectivity, commercial appeals typically start with the amount of income a business makes after expenses.
但这类申诉的确显示出一些在其他已公开文件中看不到的细节。尽管住宅类物业的不动产税申诉是基于一定的主观性评估，但商业物业税申诉则往往是从一个物业去除开支后的收入算起。
The appeals filed in New York include figures that were certified by a public accountant and sworn to by Mr. Trump, under penalty of prosecution if he intentionally misstated them. They were supported by rent rolls and other documentation.
纽约的那些申诉的文件包括经公共会计师核算、特朗普保证为真的数据——如果他有意谎报，会遭到起诉。这些数据也得到了租金账目和其他文件的验证。
At some of Mr. Trump’s properties, the cash generated is closer to, or matches, what showed up on his financial disclosure forms. For example, at the first apartment building he developed in Manhattan, Trump Tower, the 18 floors of office and retail spaces that a Trump entity owns produced positive cash flow of $13 million in 2015, even after mortgage payments. That would match the claim on his financial disclosure form of making more than $5 million on the spaces.
特朗普某些物业的现金收入，与他的财务披露报表中所列的数字更接近，或说比较匹配。比如，在他于曼哈顿开发的第一座公寓楼特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)，由其名下的实体拥有的18层办公和零售空间在2015年产生了1300万美元的正现金流，而且是在扣除贷款按揭费用之后。这与他在财务披露报表上申报的数据相匹配，即从这些地方获得了超过500万美元的收入。
But time and again, what the form presented as income did not match what was reported in other documents. Mr. Trump also runs several publicly owned attractions — the carousel and ice rinks in Central Park and a golf course in the Bronx — under agreements with New York City.
但你会不止一次地发现，这些报表所显示的收入数据与其他文件中的数字不符。根据和纽约市政府达成的协议，特朗普还经营着几处公共景点——中央公园的旋转木马和溜冰场，以及位于布朗克斯区的一座高尔夫球场。
Mr. Trump’s disclosure forms reported income from the Wollman and Lasker ice rinks of just under $13 million last year, and $8.6 million the year before. But accounting figures provided by his company to the city show that those figures represent gross receipts. And city contract documents show that out of that amount, he had to turn over to the city 28 percent of gross receipts and 56 percent of food sales, and cover expenses like utility payments and salaries. Recent figures were not available, but a 2011 city audit showed that for the previous three years, an average of $25,340 a year for both rinks was left after expenses.
特朗普的披露报表显示，沃尔曼(Wollman)和拉斯克(Lasker)两个溜冰场去年的收入为将近1300万美元，前年则为860万美元。但他的公司给纽约市政府提供的财务数据则显示，这些数据代表的是总收入。根据合同的约定，他必须将总收入的28%和食品销售收入的56%上交给市政府，还要支付水电等费用和员工薪水。我们无法获得最新的数据，但2011年的市审计数据显示，之前三年，这两座溜冰场扣除支出后的平均年收入为2.534万美元。
On the disclosure form he filed this year, which apparently covered 2015 and part of 2016, more than half of Mr. Trump’s claimed income was generated by his golf resorts. As an industry, privately owned golf resorts lost 2 cents for every dollar in revenue for the year that ended in September, and that was the industry’s best year since the 2008 recession, according to Sageworks, a financial information company.
在他今年提交的似乎覆盖了2015年和2016年部分时间的披露报表中，特朗普所列的收入有超过一半来自他拥有的高尔夫球场。据金融信息公司Sageworks统计，在截至今年9月的财年中，私营高尔夫球场行业的收入整体上是每一美元毛收入出现两美分亏损，而这还是自2008年经济危机以来表现最好的年份。
In recent years, Mr. Trump has made major investments in golf resorts. He bought the Doral golf resort near Miami in 2012 for $150 million, of which $104 million represented the real estate for property tax purposes.
最近几年，特朗普在高尔夫球场领域投下重资。2012年，他花1.5亿美元买下了迈阿密附近的多拉尔(Doral)高尔夫度假村。其中1.04亿代表着不动产，需要据此缴纳不动产税。
After the appeal of his property taxes was heard in June, the special magistrate, Leonardo Delgado, lowered the resort’s property taxes by $46,534.
特朗普的不动产税申诉在今年6月得到受理后，地区法院特别法官莱昂纳多·德尔加多(Leonardo Delgado)将这个度假村的不动产税减少了4.6534万美元。
At one point during the hearing, Mr. Delgado stared at the income and expense report showing that Doral had lost $2.4 million in 2014, a number that did not even include millions of dollars in mortgage payments. Mr. Delgado began to chuckle and turned to the county property assessor, Murry Harris.
在听证会期间，德尔加多盯着多拉尔的收支报表看了看，上面显示这个度假村在2014年亏损了240万美元，这个数字甚至没有包括数以百万计的贷款按揭费用。他低声笑起来，同时转向县资产评估师默里·哈里斯(Murry Harris)。
“So he spent $104 million to lose two and a half million dollars a year,” Mr. Delgado said. “I know how to lose that money without having to spend $104 million. How ’bout you, Murry?”
“所以他花1.04亿美元，然后一年亏损250万美元，”德尔加多说。“我不用花那1.04亿美元，也可以亏出这些钱。你呢，默里？”