CLEVELAND — Donald John Trump accepted the Republican presidential nomination on Thursday night with an unusually emphatic appeal to Americans who feel that their country is spiraling out of control and yearn for a leader who will take aggressive, even extreme, actions to protect them.
克利夫兰——周四晚，唐纳德·约翰·特朗普(Donald John Trump)接受了共和党的总统提名。期间他对美国人发出异常明确而坚决的呼吁，后者感觉自己的国家正走向失控，渴望有一位领导人采取强硬乃至极端的行动保护他们。
Mr. Trump, 70, a New York real estate developer and reality television star who leveraged his fame and forceful persona to become the rare political outsider to lead the ticket of a major party, drew exuberant cheers from Republican convention delegates as he strode onto the stage of the Quicken Loans Arena and delivered a speech as unusual as his candidacy.
现年70岁的特朗普是一名纽约房地产开发商与真人秀明星。他凭借自己的名声和强有力的形象，以政治局外人的身份在一个重要政党的总统候选人角逐中罕见地获胜。在他大步登上位于速贷球馆内的舞台，发表与他的候选人资格一样不同寻常的演讲时，台下的共和党大会代表发出热烈的欢呼声。
Portaying himself as a bold truth-teller who would confront and retaliate against threats to the United States, Mr. Trump challenged Republican orthodoxy as he promised to end multilateral trade deals and limit American intervention in global crises. He denounced “15 years of wars in the Middle East” — a rebuke of his party’s last president, George W. Bush — and pledged to help union members, coal miners and other low-wage Americans who have historically supported Democrats.
特朗普将自己描绘成一个勇于讲真话的人，愿意直面和反击美国面临的威胁。他承诺终结多边贸易协议，限制美国对全球危机的介入，对共和党的正统观念形成挑战。他谴责“在中东的15年战争”——相当于指责前任共和党总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)——发誓帮助工会成员、煤矿工人和其他美国低收入者，这些人以往大多支持民主党。
“These are the forgotten men and women of our country,” said Mr. Trump, a billionaire with a mixed record of job creation and layoffs. “People who work hard but no longer have a voice — I am your voice.”
“这些是我们国家被遗忘的人，”既创造了工作机会也曾经裁过员、好坏记录参半的亿万富翁特朗普说道。“努力工作但不再有机会发声的人们——我就是你们的声音。”
Facing a restive party on the final night of a convention that has been unusually turbulent and divided, Mr. Trump undertook a last-ditch attempt to galvanize the audience by focusing sharply on their Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, and on multiple enemies to American stability.
在一场异常混乱、意见不一的大会的最后一晚，面对一个躁动不安的政党，特朗普最后一次竭力煽动台下的观众，方式是集中、尖锐地攻击他的民主党对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，以及危及美国稳定的多方敌人。
He dwelled particularly on illegal immigrants and lawless Americans, saying they are as dangerous for the nation’s security as the Islamic State and Syrian refugees. In doing so, Trump advisers said, he sought to win over undecided voters who are sickened by the recent violence against police officers and worried about safety yet are unsure if Mr. Trump has the temperament and abilities to be commander in chief.
他在非法移民与不守法的美国人方面谈论得尤其多，称他们对国家安全的威胁不比伊斯兰国和叙利亚难民小。特朗普的顾问表示，他试图以这种方式赢得摇摆选民的支持，后者对最近针对警察的暴力感到厌恶，对安全问题感到担忧，但同时又不确定特朗普是否具备做三军统帅的性情与能力。
“The first task for our new administration will be to liberate our citizens from the crime and terrorism and lawlessness that threatens their communities,” he said.
“新一届政府的首要任务将是解救我们的公民，使他们免受威胁其社区的犯罪行为和恐怖主义，以及违法行为的伤害。”
“I have a message to every last person threatening the peace on our streets and the safety of our police: when I take the oath of office next year, I will restore law and order to our country.”
“对于威胁到我们街头的和平以及警察安全的每个人，本人有一句话：当我明年宣誓就职的时候，我会恢复美国的法律与秩序。”
While nomination speeches are traditionally optimistic and personal, full of hope and revelations that cast candidates in the best possible light for voters, Mr. Trump largely shaped his speech to resonate with a tense nation.
传统的提名演讲基调乐观、带有个人色彩、充满希望、将候选人最好的一面呈现给选民。然而，特朗普大体上是在用自己的演讲引发情绪紧张的国民的共鸣。
Sounding often like a wartime president, Mr. Trump used the word “threat” several times as he promised to “defeat the barbarians of ISIS” and take a strong hand in dealing with Iran, China, and other countries that he regards as adversaries. He also recited homicide rates in American cities and the thousands of illegal immigrants with criminal records, promising to control violence at home and abroad.
特朗普的语气常常像是一位战时总统。他承诺要“击溃ISIS野蛮势力”，以强硬立场应对伊朗、中国及其他一些被他视作对手的国家，言语间多次使用“威胁”一词。他还援引美国城市的他杀率和成千上万有犯罪记录的非法移民数据，许诺要在美国本土和海外遏制暴力。
“It is time to show the whole world that America is back — bigger, and better and stronger than ever before,” Mr. Trump said.
“是时候向全世界展示美国的回归——比以往任何时候都更大、更好、更强，”特朗普说。
He was blistering about Mrs. Clinton, too, and her tenure as secretary of state, arguing that her diplomatic strategy in Syria, Iraq, Egypt, Libya, and other countries had led to civil unrest and political chaos and rendered her unfit to be president.
他还对克林顿本人及她担任国务卿期间的记录进行了严厉指责，提出她针对叙利亚、伊拉克、埃及和利比亚等国的外交策略导致了当地的内乱与政治混乱，因此不适宜担任总统。
He speculated audaciously that President Obama regretted putting her in charge of the State Department.
他大胆揣测，奥巴马总统后悔自己让她执掌国务院。
“America is far less safe — and the world is far less stable — than when Obama made the decision to put Hillary Clinton in charge of America’s foreign policy,” Mr. Trump was to say.
“比起奥巴马决定让希拉里·克林顿负责美国对外政策的时候，美国要不安全得多——全世界也要动荡得多，”特朗普这样表示。
In a bid to appeal to Democrats unhappy with their party’s embrace of Mrs. Clinton, he invoked the political message of her chief rival, Senator Bernie Sanders, and suggested that Mr. Sanders shared Republicans’ critique of her record.
为了吸引不满本党拥护克林顿的民主党人，特朗普提及了她的主要对手、参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的政治讯息，还表示桑德斯赞同共和党人对她履历的批评。
“Her bad instincts and her bad judgment — something pointed out by Bernie Sanders — are what caused many of the disasters unfolding today,” Mr. Trump said. “But Hillary Clinton’s legacy does not have to be America’s legacy. The problems we face now — poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad — will last only as long as we continue relying on the same politicians who created them.”
“她糟糕的本能，加上她糟糕的判断力——伯尼·桑德斯指出了这一点——导致了今天呈现的许多灾难，”特朗普说。“但是，希拉里·克林顿的政治遗产不必成为美国的遗产。只要我们继续依赖那些制造问题的老面孔，我们今天面临的问题——本土的贫困与暴力、海外的战争与破坏——就会延续下去。”
Championing his “America First” foreign policy theme, he played on the anxieties of some voters that the rest of the world no longer respects the United States. And he pledged to act quickly to make Americans feel better about their country and put foreign allies and adversaries on notice that the nation would focus exclusively and forcefully on protecting its own interests.
在捍卫自己的“美国优先”外交政策主题时，特朗普利用了一些选民担心世界其他地区不再尊重美国的情绪。他承诺迅速采取行动，让美国民众对祖国感觉更好，并让海外的盟友和对手注意到，美国将只注重保护自身利益，而且会花大力气这么做。
“My message is that things have to change — and they have to change right now,” Mr. Trump said.
“我要发出的信号是，必须有所变化，而且是必须现在就变，”特朗普说。
The convention hall was full for Mr. Trump’s speech after several nights of empty seats and muted enthusiasm among delegates, many of whom were still ambivalent about Mr. Trump’s nomination. Delegates were rapt as Mr. Trump’s elder daughter, Ivanka, introduced him as a leader who would “take on the bold and worthy fights, who will be unafraid to set lofty goals and relentless in his determination to achieve them.”
经过几晚的空座位和代表们——许多人仍对提名特朗普心存矛盾——并不高涨的热情之后，会场座无虚席，等待特朗普演讲。特朗普的大女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)将他介绍给观众，称他作为领导人将“直面应该打的硬仗，不惧设立高远的目标，并将以不懈的决心达成这些目标。”