WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump announced Wednesday that the United States will not “accept or allow” transgender people in the U.S. military, saying U.S. forces “must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory” and could not afford to accommodate them.
华盛顿——美国总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)周三宣布，美国军队将不“接受或允许”跨性别者服役，称美军“必须把精力集中在决定性和压倒性的胜利上”，无暇顾及此类人群。
Trump made the surprise declaration in a series of posts on Twitter, saying he had come to the decision after consulting with generals and military experts, whom he did not name.
特朗普通过在Twitter上发的一系列帖子公布了这个惊人的决定，并表示，他是在与军队将领和军事专家们商量后做出这个决定的，他没有给出这些将领和专家的名字。
“After consultation with my generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. military,” Trump wrote. “Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail.”
“在咨询了我的将领和军事专家们后，特此通知，美国政府将不再接受或允许跨性别者以任何方式在美军服役，”特朗普写道。“我们的军队必须把精力集中在决定性和压倒性的胜利上，承担不起军中跨性别者所产生的巨额医疗费用和所带来的干扰等负担。”
Transgender service members have been permitted to serve openly in the military since last year.
自去年起，美军中的跨性别者在服役期间无需隐瞒身份。
The president’s announcement came amid debate on Capitol Hill over the Obama-era practice of requiring the Pentagon to pay for medical treatment related to gender transition. The dispute has unfolded as Congress considers a nearly $700 billion spending bill to fund the Pentagon. Rep. Vicky Hartzler, R-Mo., has proposed an amendment that would bar the Pentagon from spending money on transition surgery or related hormone therapy.
特朗普总统宣布这一决定的同时，国会正在对奥巴马时代要求五角大楼支付与改变性别有关的医疗费用的做法进行辩论。辩论是随着国会考虑一项为五角大楼提供近7000亿美元开支的法案而展开的。密苏里州共和党众议员维姬·哈茨勒(Vicky Hartzler)对法案提出了一项修正案：禁止五角大楼把钱花在变性手术或相关激素治疗上。
The same measure narrowly failed this month in the House, with some Republicans joining Democrats to reject it. But some conservative Republicans have said they would not support the military spending measure without the language banning money for gender transition.
众议院本月曾以微弱多数否决了一个同样的举措，一些共和党人加入到民主党人行列，对该修正案投了反对票。但一些保守的共和党人已经表示，如果法案不包括禁止把钱花在改变性别上的条款，他们不会支持这个军事预算法案。