To Whom It May Concern:
致相关人士：
Trump is sorry. Trump is humble. Trump is scared. Trump doesn’t want to get crushed.
特朗普很遗憾，特朗普很谦卑，特朗普害怕了，特朗普不想被碾碎。
So if I have offended anyone, or because I have offended everyone, I’m sorry.
所以，假如我冒犯了什么人，或者说是因为我冒犯了所有人，我很遗憾。
I’m sorry that I realized too late that all the great put-downs that helped me put away the 16 dwarfs don’t translate well to the general election.
我很遗憾，自己太晚才意识到，所有那些帮我把16个小矮人打发掉的损人金句，在大选阶段不管用了。
I’m sorry that I’m causing the Republicans to lose control of the Senate and I’m sorry they wish I’d never been born.
我很遗憾，我会让共和党人失去参议院的控制权。我也很遗憾，他们希望我从没降临人世。
I’m really not that sorry to be causing trouble for Paul Ryan, who’s going to lose seats in the House. He’s a prig and I wish he had lost his primary to that tattooed guy who likes me.
我倒并不遗憾给保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)添了麻烦，他在众议院里的人马会减少。他那么自命不凡，我希望他在本党初选里输给那个喜欢我的满是纹身的家伙。
I’m sorry I pretended I was going to release my tax returns. Of course I didn’t pay any taxes. I have the all-time greatest real estate deductions and depreciations.
我很遗憾，我假装要公布自己的纳税申报表。我当然没交过税了。我获得了史上最棒的房地产税收减免与折旧。
I’m sorry I asked African-Americans “What do you have to lose by supporting me?” in front of a crowd of white people. I’m sorry I can never find my African-American.
我很遗憾，在一群白人面前问非裔美国人“支持我又能损失什么呢？”我很遗憾，根本就找不到任何支持我的非裔。
I’m sorry I continue lying about my wild gesticulations mocking a disabled reporter at the failing New York Times. And I’m really sorry that Hillary’s super PAC used it in an ad and made me look like an oaf.
我很遗憾，我一直撒谎，辩解自己并没有手舞足蹈地取笑供职于每况愈下的《纽约时报》的一名残疾记者。我也非常遗憾，希拉里的超级政治行动委员会将之用在了广告里，让我显得像个蠢蛋。
I’m sorry I have to sacrifice so much to make America great again. No one would believe the hatred spewed at me on Twitter. It’s amazing how much super-nasty stuff can be packed into 140 characters. Cyberbullying stinks. I’m sorry Al Gore invented the internet.
我很遗憾，我得做出那么多的牺牲来恢复美利坚的伟大荣光。不会有人相信Twitter上冲我发泄的仇恨言论。140个字符里居然能塞进那么些穷凶极恶的东西，真是让人惊奇。网络霸凌糟透了。我很遗憾阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)发明了互联网。
I’m sorry, given how horribly I’m doing with women, that I need Roger Ailes to help me with the debates and my post-campaign media company. Many people are saying we should call it the “We Only Hire Foxes” network.
鉴于我在女性当中的支持率非常糟糕，我很遗憾，我需要罗杰·艾尔斯(Roger Ailes)来帮我准备辩论，掌管我想在竞选后创办的媒体公司。许多人表示，我们应该叫这家公司“我们只雇Fox的人”网络。
I’m sorry I didn’t google Paul Manafort and see that he had more shady Russian connections than a James Bond villain. I’m also sorry I had to cut him loose. He had a lot of experience propping up dictators. But Paul didn’t know how to play the Trumpet. He had these old-fashioned ideas that when I bravely took on the Khans and that rude baby at the rally that I was punching below my weight. And he didn’t appreciate the genius of my taco bowl tweet.
我很遗憾，我没有在谷歌上搜索一下保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)，从而发现他跟俄罗斯之间见不得人的联系比007电影里的反派还多。我也很遗憾，我得甩掉他。在支持独裁者方面，他有丰富的经验。但保罗不懂怎么吹响特朗普的号角。当我大胆对抗汗(Khan)的家人和竞选集会上那个恼人的宝宝时，他老套地认为，我是在自降身段。他也不理解我发的那条关于墨西哥塔可碗的Twitter帖子的天才之处。
Speaking of tacos, I’m sorry nobody understood why a Mexican judge could not be fair to me because of the wall. Isn’t it obvious why a Mexican-American is the same as a Mexican but a German-Scottish American is a pure American?
说到塔可，我很遗憾，没人理解因为筑墙的事情墨西哥裔法官不可能公正地对待我。墨西哥裔美国人跟墨西哥人是一码事，而身为德国和苏格兰后裔的美国人则是纯粹的美国人，这不是明摆的吗？
I hated to ship Paul off to Siberia. But Jared and Corey told me I couldn’t get swept up in an international money-laundering scandal while I was accusing Hillary of doing favors at State for a money launderer and Clinton Foundation donor.
我讨厌把保罗流放西伯利亚。不过，贾里德（指女婿贾里德·库什纳——译注）和科里（指前竞选经理科里·莱万多夫斯基——译注）告诉我，既然我指责希拉里在国务院期间帮了一名给克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)捐款的洗钱者的忙，自己就不能卷入一桩国际洗钱丑闻。
Paul will be fine. I’m sure that the $12 million he got for guiding the Russian puppet in Ukraine and plotting to annex Crimea — wherever that is — was just a taste of what’s in his offshore bank account.
保罗会没事的。我确信，指点俄罗斯在乌克兰的傀儡并密谋吞并克里米亚——鬼知道那地方在哪儿——让他拿到的1200万美元，不过是他离岸银行账户的九牛一毛。
I’m sorry everyone is calling my new campaign C.E.O., Steve Bannon, the “Most Dangerous Man in America.” That’s my job. And I’m sorry that everyone is disgusted that I hired the guy who made Breitbart a white nationalist manifesto. The website is right-wing and right: White European immigrants like Melania, good. Third Worlders demanding welfare, bad. Close the borders and expel the invaders. #WinterIsComing.
我很遗憾，大家都把我的新任竞选首席执行官史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)称为“全美最危险的家伙”。那可是我的头衔。我也很遗憾，大家都厌恶我聘请了他这个把布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart)变成白人民族主义宣传阵地的哥们儿。这家网站主张右翼、观点正确：像梅拉尼娅（指妻子梅拉尼娅·特朗普——译注）这样的欧洲白人移民，挺好。伸手要福利的第三世界寄生虫，很糟。关闭边境、驱逐入侵者。#凛冬将至#
The coolest thing is, when Steve was an investment banker, he got a stake in “Seinfeld” and made millions. So now I have my very own soup Nazi!
最酷的是，史蒂夫还是投资银行家的时候，他获得了《宋飞传》(Seinfeld)的股份，赚得盆满钵满。所以，我现在可是有了独家专享的汤纳粹（剧中一个独断专行、脾气暴躁的汤店老板角色——译注）！
People just have to get used to going from dapper Paul to stubbled Bannon in his wrinkled cargo shorts. He looks like he just stepped out of a vat of Guinness. Roger Stone was right to put him on his Worst-Dressed List. I’ll get him squared away with some Trump suits and ties from China.
大家得习惯从风度翩翩的保罗转换到胡子拉碴的班农。穿着皱巴巴工装短裤的他看起来像是刚在一大桶健力士啤酒(Guinness)里泡过。罗杰·斯通(Roger Stone)把他列入最差着装榜单合情合理。我会让他捯饬一下，穿上特朗普式西装、打上产自中国的领带。
Steve and I have so much in common. We both love crazy conspiracy theories, like the one Bannon peddles about Huma being tied to the Islamic group who funded 9/11. I’m sorry Huma is posing for Vogue instead of keeping her husband, the pervert, from sexting online again.
史蒂夫和我一拍即合。我们都爱疯狂的阴谋论，比如班农四处散播的胡玛（指希拉里·克林顿的长期幕僚胡玛·阿贝丁——译注）与资助9·11袭击的伊斯兰团体有联系。我很抱歉，胡玛去给《Vogue》杂志拍照，而不是管好她那个变态丈夫，不让他再在网上发色情短信了。
I’m sorry that it doesn’t matter who runs my campaign because I always speak with myself, No. 1, because I have a very good brain and I’m very rich.
我很抱歉，谁负责我的竞选团队其实无足轻重，因为我总是跟自己这个头号人物对话，因为我头脑特别好使，我还非常有钱。
I’m sorry that while I’m being too honest, Crooked Hillary is never really sorry for all her lies and illegal operations. She’s like Lyin’ Lochte, just sorry she got caught. Hearing her apologize is as likely as seeing those 33,000 yoga emails.
我很抱歉，我诚实过了头，“奸人希拉里”却从未对她所有那些谎言和非法行动感到一丝歉意。她就跟说谎话的罗切特一样，只对自己被抓住了感到遗憾。听她致歉的可能性就跟看到那3.3万封被删除的瑜伽邮件一样低。
I’m sorry the Clintons didn’t realize until now how bad it was to be using the State Department as a favor factory for big donors to the foundation. I’m all for pay-for-play, but only at my golf courses.
我很抱歉，克林顿夫妇现在才意识到，将国务院用作给他们基金会大金主帮忙的工厂是多么地糟糕。我全心赞成收费进场，但只适用于我名下的高尔夫球场。
I’m sorry Hillary had to besmirch poor Colin Powell by claiming he gave her the idea for private emails. Hasn’t his reputation suffered enough pushing that phony war at the U.N.? Have I mentioned that I was against the Iraq war before the British mapmakers invented Iraq? I’m sorry more people don’t believe that.
我很抱歉，希拉里不得不损害可怜的科林·鲍威尔(Colin Powell)的名誉，宣称他让自己有了使用私人邮件的想法。他在联合国推动了那场虚假的战争，他的声誉不是已经遭受重创了吗？我有没有提过，早在绘制地图的英国人发明了“伊拉克”的说法之前，本人就反对伊拉克战争了？我很抱歉，没有更多人相信这一点。
And I’m sorry Hillary is so unhealthy and weak that she hardly ever campaigns and needs pillows to prop her up when she does. I’m sorry to say that she does not have the stamina to take on ISIS. But I am not sorry to say that I am fully recovered from the bone spurs that got me out of Vietnam and ready to kick the you-know-what out of ISIS.
我也很抱歉，希拉里那么不健康、身体那么孱弱，她都不怎么进行竞选活动，就算去了也需要枕头的支撑。我很抱歉，她没有对抗伊斯兰国(ISIS)所需的耐力。不过，我可以说自己已从阻止我去越南服役的骨刺中完全恢复了，随时可以把伊斯兰国踢出那个什么来。对此，我没有任何歉意。
I’m sorry that Hillary won’t stop playing “Fight Song.”
我很抱歉，希拉里不停地播放那首《战斗之歌》(Fight Song)。
Most of all, I’m sorry that I’m not really sorry.
最后，我很抱歉，其实我并未抱有一丝一毫的歉意。