COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Big crowds still mob Donald Trump when he comes to town, with fans waiting in long lines to attend his rallies, where they eagerly jeer his Democratic rival and holler happily at his message.
科罗拉多州科罗拉多斯普林斯——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)抵达时，庞大的人群将他团团围住。为了参加他的集会，粉丝们排起了长队。在集会现场，他们兴高采烈地奚落特朗普的民主党竞争对手，并开心地为特朗普的话大声欢呼。
But beneath the cheering, a new emotion is taking hold among some Trump supporters as they grapple with reports predicting that he will lose the election: a dark fear about what will happen if their candidate is denied the White House. Some worry that they will be forgotten, along with their concerns and frustrations. Others believe the nation may be headed for violent conflict.
但在欢呼的背后，预测特朗普会败选的报道令一些支持者很难面对，他们的中间开始形成一种新的情绪：一种悲观的担忧，如果他们支持的候选人不能入主白宫，会是怎样的结果。一些人担心他们会被遗忘，同时被遗忘的还有他们的担忧和失望。另一些人则认为，这个国家可能会朝着暴力冲突的方向发展。
Jared Halbrook, 25, of Green Bay, Wisconsin, said that if Trump lost to Hillary Clinton, which he worried would happen through a stolen election, it could lead to “another Revolutionary War.”
现年25岁、来自威斯康星州格林湾的贾里德·哈尔布鲁克(Jared Halbrook)说，他担心特朗普会因选举出现作弊而败给希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，这可能会引发“又一场革命战争”。
“People are going to march on the capitols,” said Halbrook. “They’re going to do whatever needs to be done to get her out of office, because she does not belong there.”
“人们会游行前往议会，”哈尔布鲁克说。“他们会尽自己所能把她赶下台，因为她不属于那里。”
“If push comes to shove,” he added, and Clinton “has to go by any means necessary, it will be done.”
“如果事态严重，”他接着说，只要能赶走克林顿，“采取任何手段都在所不惜。”
While some voters emphatically disputed polls suggesting that Clinton would win, others offered an apocalyptic vision of what life would be like if she did.
对于那些显示克林顿会获胜的民调数据，一些人表达了强烈的质疑，然而也有一些人描述了如果克林顿获胜，生活会变成怎样的一场灾难。
“It’s not what I’m going to do, but I’m scared that the country is going to go into a riot,” said Roger Pillath, 75, of Coleman, Wisconsin. “I’ve never seen the country so divided, just black and white — there’s no compromise whatsoever. The Clinton campaign says together we are stronger, but there’s no together. The country has never been so divided. I’m looking at revolution right now.”
“不是我会怎么做，而是我害怕国家会发生暴乱，”现年75岁、来自威斯康星州的科尔曼罗格·皮拉特(Roger Pillath)说。“我从没见过美国分歧这么严重，非黑即白，没有任何妥协。克林顿的竞选团队说团结起来，我们会更强大，但实际上根本没有团结。美国从没产生过这么大的分歧。我现在看到的是一场革命。”
Alan Weegens, 62, of Colorado Springs, wondered aloud how the country — with so many citizens who own guns and, he said, “are willing to trample a grandma on Black Friday at midnight to save $5 on a toaster” — would react if Trump lost.
现年62岁、来自科罗拉多斯普林斯的艾伦·威金斯(Alan Weegens)大声表示，如果特朗普输了，他想看看这个很多公民都持有枪支，并且“为抢到便宜了五美元的多士炉，会在黑色星期五的午夜将一个老太太踩在脚下”的国家，将作何反应。
“I am not going to take my weapon to go out into the streets to protest an election I did not win,” Weegens said, “but I think that if certain events came about, a person would need to protect themselves, depending on where they lived, when your neighborhood goes up in flames.”
“我不会拿起武器到大街上抗议自己在选举中输了，”威金斯说，“但我觉得如果某些事情发生了，人们需要保护自己，这取决于他们住在哪里，万一你所在的街区烧起来了呢。”