WASHINGTON — One by one, they praised President Donald Trump, taking turns complimenting his integrity, his message, his strength, his policies. Their leader sat smiling, nodding his approval.
华盛顿——他们一个挨一个地称赞唐纳德·特朗普总统，挨个赞扬他的正直、他说的话、他的实力与政策。他们的领袖面带微笑坐着，点头表示赞同。
“The greatest privilege of my life is to serve as vice president to the president who’s keeping his word to the American people,” Mike Pence said, starting things off.
“能给一位信守对美国人民诺言的总统当副总统，是我一生最大的荣幸，”迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)开了个头。
“I am privileged to be here — deeply honored — and I want to thank you for your commitment to the American workers,” said Alexander Acosta, the secretary of labor.
“能坐在这里，我感到荣幸——深感荣幸——我想感谢你为美国工人的付出，”劳工部长亚历山大·阿科斯塔(Alexander Acosta)说。
Sonny Perdue, the agriculture secretary, had just returned from Mississippi and had a message to deliver. “They love you there,” he offered, grinning across the antique table at Trump.
农业部长索尼·珀杜(Sonny Perdue)刚从密西西比州回来，他带回了一个消息。“那里的人很喜欢你，”他一边传达这个信息，一边对古董桌对面的特朗普咧嘴笑着。
Reince Priebus, the chief of staff whose job insecurity has been the subject of endless speculation, outdid them all, telling the president — and the assembled news cameras — “We thank you for the opportunity and the blessing to serve your agenda.”
一直被猜测职位朝不保夕的幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)令其他人都相形逊色，他告诉总统——以及密集的采访镜头——“我们感谢你给予的机会与祝福，让我们为你的议程服务。”
So it went on Monday in the Cabinet Room of the White House, as Trump transformed a routine meeting of senior members of his government into a mood-boosting, ego-stroking display of support for himself and his agenda. While the president never explicitly asked to be praised, Pence set the worshipful tone, and Trump made it clear he liked what he heard.
这是周一在白宫内阁会议室上演的一幕，特朗普将一场政府高层常规会议，变成了表达对他个人及其议程支持的提振气氛、满足虚荣的展示会。尽管这位总统从来没有明确要求别人表扬他，但彭斯设定了一个表虔诚的基调，特朗普则明确表现出喜欢听这些东西。
“Thank you, Mick,” he told Mick Mulvaney, his budget director. “Good job,” he told Scott Pruitt, his EPA chief. “Very good, Daniel,” he said to Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence.
“谢谢你，米克，”他对自己的预算主管米克·马尔瓦尼(Mick Mulvaney)说。“干得不错，”他告诉环境保护局局长斯科特·普鲁特(Scott Pruitt)。“很棒，丹尼尔，”他对国家情报局局长丹·科茨(Dan Coats)讲道。
The commander in chief, who has been known for decades as a fan of flattery and who speaks of himself in superlatives, even indulged in a bit of self-congratulation. He declared himself one of the most productive presidents in United States history — perhaps Franklin D. Roosevelt could come close, he conceded — and proclaimed that he had led a “record-setting pace” of accomplishment.
这位三军统帅甚至索性自夸了一番，过去几十年里，大家都知道他喜好奉承，在谈到自己时从来不吝溢美之词。他称自己是美国历史上最有成效的总统之一——他承认，或许富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)能与之媲美——还宣称美国政府在他的领导下以“创纪录的速度”取得了诸多成就。
Never mind that Trump has yet to sign any major legislation, or that his White House has been buffeted by legal and ethical questions surrounding the investigation into his campaign’s possible links to Russia and his firing of the FBI director who had been leading that inquiry.
要知道，特朗普还没有签署任何重大法案，而且，围绕他的团队可能与俄罗斯有关联的调查，以及他将领导这项调查的联邦调查局局长解职一事，令他的白宫接连遭到法律和道德质疑。
The highly unusual spectacle before the Cabinet meeting got down to business and the TV cameras were banished seemed designed to deflect attention from the president’s faltering agenda and the accusations leveled against him last week by the fired FBI director, James Comey, which are threatening to further overshadow his agenda and haunt his presidency.
在内阁会议进入正题和摄像机被屏蔽之前发生的这一幕极不寻常，似乎是有意为之，目的是将注意力从总统进展不顺的议程，以及被解职的联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)上周对他提出的指控上转移开来，这些指控有可能给他的议程蒙上更多阴影，在他的总统生涯中挥之不去。
Days before, Comey had charged that Trump had lied about his firing and inappropriately sought to influence the Russia investigation. On Monday, the president said the country was “seeing amazing results” from his leadership.
几天前，科米指控特朗普在解除他职位的事情上撒谎，还不恰当地试图对通俄指控调查施加影响。周一，总统表示这个国家在他的领导下“正取得惊人的成就”。
“I will say that never has there been a president, with few exceptions — in the case of FDR he had a major Depression to handle — who’s passed more legislation, who’s done more things than what we’ve done,” Trump said. “We’ve been about as active as you can possibly be, and at a just about record-setting pace.”
“除了极少的例外——比如富兰克林·D·罗斯福面临大衰退的情况——我会说几乎没有哪位总统通过了更多法案，做的事比我们还多的，”特朗普说。“我们的积极程度几乎达到了极限，基本是以一个创纪录的速度。”
The tableau in the Cabinet Room drew instant derision from critics. And within hours, Democrats had pounced.
白宫内阁会议室发生的引人入胜的场面立即引来批评者的嘲笑。不到几个小时，民主党人也扑了上去。
“GREAT meeting today with the best staff in the history of the world!!” Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., the minority leader, said in a post on Twitter.
“真是一场伟大的会议，有世界历史上的最佳内阁出席！！”参议院少数党领袖、纽约州民主党参议员查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)在Twitter上说。
In a video posted with the tweet, Schumer sat at a table with young staff members who, at his prompting, praised his performance on Sunday talk shows and the appearance of his hair. One repeated Priebus’ quotation word for word, prompting the senator and his aides to erupt into laughter.
在发布于Twitter的一段视频中，舒默与一群年轻的工作人员坐在一张桌子旁，后者在他的鼓动下，赞美他在周日脱口秀节目中的表现和他的发型。其中有人逐字引用了普利巴斯的话，令参议员和助手们都大笑起来。
Trump has been struggling with his legislative agenda. His effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act passed the House on a second try, but senators are toiling to put together their own version. And his administration is months away from unveiling either a major tax cut package or the sweeping infrastructure plan he has promised.
特朗普的立法议程举步维艰。废除和取代《平价医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的努力，第二次在众议院投票时获得通过，但参议员们在努力制定他们自己的版本。再过几个月，他的政府要么得推出一个重大的减税方案，要么就兑现他之前承诺的大规模基建计划。
The endorsements from the administration’s highest officials may have served as a comforting counterpoint to Trump’s sinking poll numbers. Fifty-nine percent disapprove of the job he is doing as president, according to a June 11 Gallup tracking survey, with only 36 percent approving.
来自政府最高层官员的支持，或许对特朗普不断下降的民意支持率有一定的抚慰作用。盖洛普(Gallup)的追踪调查显示，有59%的人对他担任总统的表现不满意，只有36%的人表示支持。
After his upbeat introductory remarks on Monday, the president went around the table asking for a statement from each Cabinet member. One by one, they said their names and — as if working to outdo one another — paid homage to Trump, describing how honored they were to serve in his administration.
周一，在做了一个积极乐观的开场白后，总统便绕着桌子请每一位内阁成员发表声明。他们挨个说了自己的名字——就好像在竭力胜过其他人——并向特朗普致敬，描述他们为能在他的政府效力感到多么荣幸。
“Thank you for the opportunity to serve at SBA,” said Linda McMahon, the administrator of the Small Business Administration, trumpeting "a new optimism” for small businesses.
“感谢你让我有机会在SBA效力，”小企业管理局(Small Business Administration)局长琳达·麦克马洪(Linda McMahon)说，她还宣告小企业看到了“新的乐观前景”。
Ben Carson, the housing secretary, called it “a great honor” to work for Trump, while Perdue offered congratulations for “the men and women you have gathered around this table.”
住房和城市发展部部长本·卡森(Ben Carson)称，能为特朗普效力是“一项莫大的荣誉”。珀杜则对“围坐在这张桌子旁的各位”表示祝贺。
Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, told Trump: “It was a great honor traveling with you around the country for the last year, and an even greater honor to be here serving on your Cabinet.”
财政部长史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)告诉特朗普：“去年能随你在美国各地访问，是一项莫大的荣誉，如今能在你的内阁效力，则是更大的殊荣。”
A few Cabinet members diverged from the apparent script. Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense whose reputation for independence has been a comfort to Trump’s critics, refrained from personally praising the president, instead aiming his comments at U.S. troops fighting and dying for their country.
有几位内阁成员似乎没有照本宣科。国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)没有做出个人褒奖，而是把赞扬给了为祖国战斗和牺牲的美国军人。他独立的名声对特朗普的批评者而言是一种安慰。
“Mr. President, it’s an honor to represent the men and women of the Department of Defense, and we are grateful for the sacrifices our people are making in order to strengthen our military so our diplomats always negotiate from a position of strength,” Mattis said as Trump sat, stern-faced.
“总统先生，能代表国防部的男女将士我感到十分荣幸，对于我们的人民为加强我们的军事力量做出的牺牲——以便让我们的外交官在谈判中始终处于优势地位——我们心存感激，”马蒂斯说道，一旁的特朗普面无表情。
But the meeting still struck White House officials of past administrations as odd.
但这场会议依然让往届政府的白宫官员感到十分古怪。
“I ran 16 Cabinet meetings during Obama’s 1st term,” Chris Lu, former President Barack Obama’s Cabinet secretary, wrote on Twitter. “Our Cabinet was never told to sing Obama’s praises. He wanted candid advice not adulation.”
“在奥巴马的第一个任期里，我组织过16场内阁会议，”前总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的内阁秘书长卢沛宁(Chris Lu)在Twitter上写道。“我们的内阁从来不曾被要求给奥巴马唱赞歌。他想要的是诚实的建议，而不是吹捧。”
The show of support for the president was in keeping with an intense effort by the White House to boost Trump’s mood and change the subject from Comey’s damaging testimony last week.
对总统表示支持的表演，与白宫的一项努力是一致的，其目的提振特朗普的士气，将话题从科米上周所做的颇具杀伤力的证词上引开。
In a television interview on Monday morning, the president’s daughter Ivanka Trump said her father “felt vindicated” and was eager to move on and talk about the rest of his agenda. Appearing on “Fox & Friends,” she said that “he feels incredibly optimistic.”
总统的女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)在周一上午接受电视采访时表示，她父亲“感觉自己是清白的”，渴望能迈过这个问题，谈论他其他的议题。在“福克斯和朋友们”(Fox & Friends)节目上，她表示“他感到十分乐观”。
Reporters who witnessed the Cabinet meeting’s prelude tried in vain to ask the president about his comments about Comey — specifically, whether he has tapes of their conversations, as he has hinted.
见证了内阁会议室那段前奏的记者们，试图让总统就科米的言论置评，但未能如愿——他们尤其想知道，他是否有两人谈话的录音，就像他之前所暗示的。
But Trump was in no mood to allow such questions to rain on his parade, and he dismissed the news media with a curt “thank you.”
但特朗普似乎不愿让这类问题破坏他的展示会的气氛，于是用一句唐突的“谢谢你”打发了新闻媒体。
“Finally held our first full @Cabinet meeting today,” he tweeted later, along with a video of the meeting-turned-pep rally. “With this great team, we can restore American prosperity and bring real change to D.C.”
“今天终于召开了我们的首次全体@Cabinet会议，”他后来发推文写道，还发布了一段这场变身为鼓劲集会活动的会议的视频。“凭借这样一支优秀的团队，我们可以重建美国的繁荣，给华盛顿特区带来真正的变化。”