WASHINGTON — Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said on Sunday that the women who have accused President Trump of sexual misconduct “should be heard,” a break from the administration’s assertions that the allegations have no merit and should be dismissed.
华盛顿——周日，美国驻联合国大使尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)表示，指控特朗普总统不当性行为的女性“应该被听到”，打破了特朗普政府认为这些指控毫无根据、应该被无视的一贯主张。
In response to questions on CBS’s “Face the Nation” about the allegations, Ms. Haley said that while ultimately the decision on Mr. Trump lies with voters, “women should always feel comfortable coming forward. And we should all be willing to listen to them.”
在哥伦比亚广播公司(CBS)的《面对国民》(Face the Nation)节目中回答关于那些指控的提问时，黑利表示，虽然对特朗普的决定最终取决于选民，但“女性应该任何时候都能坦然地站出来。我们都应该愿意倾听她们的讲述。”
In discussing the growing number of women coming forward with stories of sexual misconduct by an array of powerful men, Ms. Haley said there should be no differentiation in how they are treated, regardless of whom they are accusing.
在讨论越来越多的女性站出来指控一系列权势男性的不当性行为时，黑利表示，无论她们指控的是谁，她们都应该受到相同的对待。
“They should be heard, and they should be dealt with,” Ms. Haley added. “And I think we heard from them prior to the election. And I think any woman who has felt violated or felt mistreated in any way, they have every right to speak up.”
“她们的声音应该被听到，她们的问题应该得到处理，”黑利还说。“我认为，我们在选举之前就听到了她们的声音。我认为，任何一名女性在任何方面感觉自己受到了侵犯或不当对待，都有权利大声疾呼。”
During the 2016 presidential campaign, more than a dozen women accused Mr. Trump of sexual harassment, claims that he recently dismissed as “totally fake news” and “made-up stuff.” The president is seeking to block a defamation lawsuit filed by one of his accusers in New York State Supreme Court.
在2016年的总统竞选活动中，十多位女性指控特朗普性骚扰，特朗普最近称那些指控“完全是假新闻”，是“捏造出来的”。特朗普正在寻求阻止他的一名指控者在纽约州最高法院提起的诽谤诉讼。
Asked in October if the administration’s official position was that the women were lying, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, echoed the president’s statements. “Yeah, we’ve been clear on that from the beginning, and the president’s spoken on it,” she said.
10月，当被问及该政府的官方立场是否认为那名女性是在撒谎时，白宫新闻秘书萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)呼应了总统的声明。“是的，我们的立场从一开始就很明确，总统谈论过这个话题了，”她说。
Ms. Haley, a former governor of South Carolina who has previously been floated as a potential replacement for Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, has cast herself as someone capable of influencing the president on everything from Russia sanctions to refugee resettlement.
黑利曾任南卡罗来纳州州长，之前曾被宣传为美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)的潜在替代者。她将自己塑造成一个能在所有事情上影响总统的人，从俄罗斯制裁到难民安置。
The accusations against Mr. Trump have received renewed attention in recent weeks after allegations of sexual misconduct have derailed the careers of powerful public figures across the country. Three members of Congress said last week that they would resign over misconduct allegations. Those included Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, who lashed out at Mr. Trump in his resignation announcement.
最近几周，针对特朗普的指控再次受到关注，因为对不当性行为的指控已经毁掉了美国各地多位有权势的公众人物的职业生涯。上周，三名国会议员表示，他们将因不当行为指控而辞职。这其中包括明尼苏达州的民主党参议员阿尔·弗兰肯(Al Franken)，他在辞职声明中抨击了特朗普。
“I, of all people, am aware that there is some irony in the fact that I am leaving while a man who has bragged on tape about his history of sexual assault sits in the Oval Office,” Mr. Franken said.
“和大家一样，我也意识到，在我离开时，有一个曾在录音里吹嘘自己的性侵犯史的人还坐在椭圆形办公室里，这真是讽刺，”弗兰肯说。
In recent months, Mr. Trump has also been casting doubt that the “Access Hollywood” tape of him boasting about groping women is authentic, despite publicly acknowledging its authenticity shortly after its release in October 2016.
最近几个月，特朗普一直在质疑，他在《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)节目中吹嘘猥亵女性的录音是伪造的，尽管该录音2016年10月曝出后不久，他就公开承认了它的真实性。