Donald J. Trump often opines on the economic risks of manufacturing American products overseas. Now he can add his daughter’s line of Chinese-made scarves to his list of concerns.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)常常就美国公司在海外制造产品的经济风险发表意见。现在，他可以把他的女儿在中国制造的围巾添加到关注名单里了。
The Consumer Product Safety Commission announced on Wednesday that 20,000 Ivanka Trump-branded scarves are being recalled for violating the U.S. Federal Flammability Standard. The scarves, which are manufactured in China and made entirely of rayon, are considered a safety risk.
消费者产品安全委员会(Consumer Product Safety Commission)周三宣布，2万条伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)品牌的围巾违反了美国联邦易燃性标准，将被召回。这些围巾是在中国制造的，使用100%人造丝材质，被认为具有安全风险。
“This is a dangerous product,” said Scott Wolfson, a spokesman for the C.P.S.C.
“这种产品很危险，”委员会发言人斯科特·沃尔夫森(Scott Wolfson)说。
The regulator said that it noticed the scarves online and that its experts acquired samples and tested them for flammability. So far there have been no reported cases of injuries from an igniting scarf.
这所监管机构表示，他们在网上注意到了这些围巾，由专家收集了样本，对它们的可燃性进行了测试。目前尚未出现围巾着火致伤的案例。
The United States has strict flammability regulations on the materials used in clothing and textiles to reduce the risk of serious burns.
美国对服装和纺织品面料的可燃性有严格的规定，目的是减少严重烧伤事件发生的危险。
Consumers are advised to return Ms. Trump’s scarves, which are sold online and at stores such as Century 21, Lord & Taylor, and Marshalls, to get full refunds. Mr. Wolfson noted that the scarves, which bear Ms. Trump’s name, are licensed through an importer called GBG Accessories Group.
委员会建议消费者对这种伊万卡·特朗普品牌围巾进行退货处理，以便获得全额退款。这种围巾既在网上销售，也在21世纪百货(Century21)、罗德与泰勒百货(Lord & Taylor)和马歇尔百货(Marshalls)等实体店销售。沃尔夫森指出，这种围巾的伊万卡·特朗普品牌，是通过进口商GBG配饰集团(GBG Accessories Group)授权使用的。
Mr. Trump also sells an extensive collection of clothing that is made in China even though he frequently rails against outsourcing and threatens to tax companies that move production to other countries. The safety commission said the majority of its recalls are associated with products that come from China.
尽管特朗普经常批评外包做法，并威胁要对那些把生产环节转移到其他国家的公司征税，但他也在销售中国制造的各种服装。安全委员会表示，他们召回的产品大多都来自中国。
The Trump campaign had nothing to say about the recall and directed inquiries to Ms. Trump, who did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
特朗普的竞选团队对围巾被召回以及他女儿受到问询的事情无可奉告。伊万卡·特朗普没有立即回应置评请求。