Donald Trump has been recognized for his mastery of the media, his fascination with gilt and his bold advocacy for baffling hair.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)对媒体的熟稔、对华丽外表的痴迷、对怪异发型的坚定拥护，都已为人熟知。
But I think his greatest distinction is as a surrealist. Not since Salvador Dalí has someone so ambitiously jumbled reality and hallucination.
但我认为，他最大的特质是超现实主义。自萨尔瓦多·达利(Salvador Dalí)以来，还没有人能如此雄心勃勃地把现实与幻想混为一谈。
I’m thinking of his news conference in South Carolina on Monday and of one assertion in particular, though with Trump it’s always hard to pick and choose.
这让我想起了他周一在南卡罗来纳州(South Carolina)举行的新闻发布会，以及他当时的一则言论，尽管特朗普的言论总是多得让人难以抉择。
In an appeal to African-American voters, he charged that Barack Obama had done nothing for them, and drew a contrast between himself and the president by saying: “I’m a unifier. Obama is not a unifier.”
为了吸引非裔选民，特朗普指责奥巴马没有为他们做任何事，并称自己与奥巴马总统截然不同。他说：“我能让大家团结在一起，奥巴马不能。”
The second of those sentences is debatable. The first is just a joke. Trump sneeringly divides the world into winners and losers, savagely mocks those who challenge him, dabbles in sexism, marinates in racism, and on and on.
后半句话有待商榷，而前半句话不过是个笑话。特朗普不屑地把世界分为胜者和败者，总是凶狠地嘲讽挑战他的人，并时常大放性别歧视和种族主义厥词，劣迹举不胜举。
To call that unification is laughable under any circumstances. To make that claim to blacks is perverse. Not long ago, he insistently questioned the legitimacy of Obama’s presidency by latching onto the popular right-wing conspiracy theory that Obama had been born in Kenya and couldn’t produce a proper American birth certificate.
不论是在什么情况下，形容这种言论能团结大家，都是十分荒谬的。特朗普面对黑人作出那种表态实在是大错特错。不久之前，他还不断质问奥巴马担任总统的合法性，他援引流行的右翼阴谋论，称奥巴马出生于肯尼亚，所以不可能获得正当的美国出生证明。
Has he forgotten that? Or is he simply betting that Americans have?
他难道忘了这件事吗？还是说他认准了，美国人已经忘了这件事？
Every campaign is a painstaking manipulation of memory, an attempt to get voters to focus on only certain parts of the past and disregard the rest.
每场选战都是对记忆的处心积虑的操控。候选人试图让选民只关注过去发生过的一部分事情，并忽略其他部分。
Candidates say that they’re eager to run on their records, but what they want from voters isn’t total recall. It’s selective amnesia.
候选人宣称，他们热切希望凭借自己过去的表现来获胜，但他们并不希望选民回忆起全部内容，这就是选择性失忆。
Hillary Clinton would have us dwell on her fight for civil rights in the 1960s. She’d prefer that we edit out bits of the 1990s, when she supported the crime bill and welfare reform.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)希望我们回忆1960年代，她在民权运动中的拼搏。她更希望我们剔除1990年代的那段记忆，当时她支持了刑事法案和福利改革。
Bernie Sanders would have us luxuriate in his vision of economic justice. He’d rather us not glance backward and note how little headway he’s made to date.
伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)希望选民陶醉在他的经济公正愿景中。他害怕选民回顾过去，发现他到目前为止那可怜的进展。
But Trump is in a different category altogether. He doesn’t so much recast his yesterdays as utterly reinvent them, confident that the brio of his proclamations will mask their bogusness.
但是特朗普和他们完全不是一类人。与其说他是在修补他的过往，不如说他创造了一段全新的个人历史。他相信只要自己言之凿凿，就能够掩饰谎言。
Lately he’s been trumpeting his prescience in having urged the Bush administration not to invade Iraq back in 2003, but there’s no such urging on record.
最近，他正在鼓吹自己的先见之明，说自己曾在2003年敦促布什政府不要入侵伊拉克，但是却找不到任何相关记载。
The website PolitiFact went in search of it, combing through newspapers and television transcripts, and came up empty-handed.
PolitiFact网站搜寻了报纸和电视脚本，试图找到特朗普在这方面的言论，却无功而返。
“Trump makes it sound like he stood on a railroad to try to stop the Iraq war train in its tracks,” PolitFact reported. “In reality, by the time he got around to forcefully criticizing the war, that train had already left the station.”
“特朗普说得好像他站在铁轨上，试图阻挡伊拉克战争的列车向前行驶，”PolitiFact称。“而事实上，等他回过神来抨击战争的时候，列车早就已经驶出车站。”
His greatest trick, though, isn’t to toy with memory but to overwhelm it, rendering insults and provocations at such a hectic pace that the new ones eclipse and then expunge the old ones. It’s as if the DVR of the electorate and the media can store only so many episodes before it starts erasing earlier indignities.
不过，他最巧妙的伎俩并不是操纵记忆，而是用口水覆盖记忆。他以疯狂的速度不断侮辱、挑衅，制造新的话题，遮蔽旧的话题。选民和媒体就好比录像机一样，只能存一定集数的节目，超过以后就会擦除他较早的无礼行径。
His flamboyant present overwrites his distressing past. It’s the eternal sunshine of the spotless Trump.
他招摇过市的当下，遮盖了他不堪回首的过往——完美无瑕的特朗普闪出永恒的光。
His proposed ban on Muslims coming into the country exited the discussion much more quickly than it should have. So did his false claims that Muslims in Jersey City celebrated by the thousands on 9/11.
他曾提出禁止穆斯林进入美国，这一言论在讨论中过早地消失了。他的另一个虚假说法也是如此，他曾经宣称数千名穆斯林在泽西市(Jersey City)举行了9·11庆祝活动。
At the Republican debate last Saturday night, when Jeb Bush brought up Trump’s galling dismissal of John McCain’s ordeal as a prisoner of war, he was like a D.J. dusting off a golden oldie from the vault. We hadn’t heard that song in a while.
在上周六晚的共和党辩论会上，杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)提起特朗普令人发指的一件事，他曾经鄙视约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)成为战俘的痛苦经历。杰布的这番质问，仿佛是一个DJ，从地下室翻出了尘封已久的老唱片。我们已经很久没听人提起过这个话题了。
We seldom read much anymore about Trump the birther (unless it’s in relation to Ted Cruz and Canada). And while that’s partly because his Republican rivals see no profit in an attack on him that could be taken as a defense of Obama, it’s also because there’s been so much other, fresher fodder since.
我们也几乎听不到特朗普拿出生地做文章了（除了谈到泰德·克鲁兹[Ted Cruz]和加拿大的时候）。这一方面是因为，特朗普的共和党对手认为攻击他，会被认为是在替奥巴马辩护，所以没有什么好处；另一方面是因为，后来又出现了很多别的、更新鲜的“料”。
The sheer volume of his offenses minimizes each affront, and as his shock tactics become predictable, they inevitably grow less menacing, too.
他挑起的事端数不胜数，所以单独拿出一件来看，就显得没那么重要了。而随着他这种耸人听闻的伎俩越来越容易预见，其威力也难免减弱。
I hear it in the conversations around me; I see it in media coverage that increasingly treats him as a normal candidate. Familiarity breeds surrender, even rationalizations: He doesn’t actually mean what he says. He doesn’t ultimately believe in anything. It’s all strategy, all spectacle. Sit back and enjoy the show.
我身边听到的议论和媒体的报道都揭示了这一情况，而媒体也越来越把他视为一个正常的参选人。看多了就会见怪不怪之后，甚至会替他辩解：他虽然这么说，但这并不是他的本意。归根结底，他不相信任何事情。一切都是策略，都是演戏。坐下来轻松地欣赏表演吧。
“It’s so fun to watch,” Ezra Klein of Vox recently wrote, “it’s easy to lose sight of how terrifying it really is.”
“看起来太有趣了，”Vox网站的埃兹拉·克莱因(Ezra Klein)写道。“一不小心就忽略了实际上这是一件多么可怕的事。”
I might quibble with “fun,” but not with the notion that Trump has used a kind of sensory overload to numb us to the fictions he spins, the indecency he indulges.
尽管我不认同“有趣”这个词，但我同意特朗普是在用充满感官刺激的言辞，让我们对他撒的谎、讲的粗话感到麻木。
We can’t lose track. We must keep score. The sum of them is the essence of him, a picture worth a thousand slurs.
我们不能选择遗忘，要一一记录下来。把记录汇总起来就能反映他的本质：那么一副千人唾骂都不为过的嘴脸。