DORAL, Fla. — Donald J. Trump said on Wednesday that he hoped Russian intelligence services had successfully hacked Hillary Clinton’s email, and encouraged them to publish whatever they may have stolen, essentially urging a foreign adversary to conduct cyberespionage against a former secretary of state.
佛罗里达州多拉——唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)周三表示，他希望俄罗斯侵入了希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的邮件，并鼓励他们公布窃取的任何内容。这本质上是在激励敌对国外势力对一位前美国国务卿的通讯展开网络间谍行动。
“Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” Trump said, staring directly into the cameras. “I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.”
“俄罗斯，如果你们在听，我希望你们能找到那三万封消失的邮件，”特朗普直视着镜头说。“我觉得我们的媒体大概会非常感谢你们。”
Trump’s call was an extraordinary moment at a time when Russia is being accused of meddling in the U.S. presidential election. His comments came amid questions about the hacking of the Democratic National Committee’s computer servers, which researchers have concluded was likely the work of two Russian intelligence agencies.
在俄罗斯被指干涉美国的总统选举之时，特朗普发出这样的呼吁非同寻常。他是在被问到有关民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)计算机服务器遭侵入的问题时做出了以上言论。研究人员得出结论，袭击很可能是两家俄罗斯情报机构所为。
Later in the news conference, when asked if he was really urging a foreign nation to hack into the private email server of Clinton, or at least meddle in the nation’s elections, he dismissed the question.
在新闻发布会的后段，他被问到是否真的是在敦促别国侵入克林顿的私人邮件服务器，或至少干涉美国的大选，特朗普并没有理会这个问题。
“That’s up to the president,” Trump said, before finally saying “be quiet” to the female questioner. “Let the president talk to them.”
“那是总统的事，”特朗普回答，最后让这名女性提问者“安静”。“让总统跟他们讲。”
The Clinton campaign immediately accused Trump of both encouraging Russian espionage against the United States and meddling in domestic politics.
克林顿的竞选团队立刻指责特朗普鼓励俄罗斯间谍刺探美国的情报，干涉其内政。
“This has to be the first time that a major presidential candidate has actively encouraged a foreign power to conduct espionage against his political opponent,” said Jake Sullivan, Clinton’s chief foreign policy adviser. “This has gone from being a matter of curiosity, and a matter of politics, to being a national security issue.”
“这绝对是第一次有一位主要总统候选人积极鼓动国外势力对他的政治对手展开间谍行动，”克林顿的首席外交政策顾问杰克·苏利文(Jake Sullivan)说。“这已经不是好奇心的问题，也不再是政治问题，而成了国家安全问题。”
Trump has largely dismissed assertions that Russia was behind the Democratic committee breach as conspiracy theories — a view he reiterated again when he said the hack “is probably not Russia.”
对于俄罗斯是民主党委员会邮件泄露的幕后主使的论断，特朗普基本上将其斥为阴谋论——在提及这次黑客行为“很可能不是俄罗斯所为”时，他重申了这一观点。
But at the news conference at one of his Florida golf courses, as the third day of the Democratic National Convention was set to begin in Philadelphia, the Republican presidential nominee refused to unequivocally call on Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president, to not meddle in the U.S. presidential election.
不过，在民主党全国大会在费城进行到第三天时，在特朗普位于佛罗里达的一座高尔夫球场举行的这次新闻发布会上，这位共和党总统提名人拒绝明确地呼吁俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)不要干预美国的总统选举。
“I’m not going to tell Putin what to do,” Trump said. “Why should I tell Putin what to do?”
“我不打算告诉普京怎么做，”特朗普说。“为什么我要告诉普京做什么？”
He added that if Russia, or any foreign government, is, in fact, behind the hack, it simply shows just how little respect other nations have for the current administration.
他还表示，如果俄罗斯或任何一个外国政府真的是此次网络攻击的幕后黑手，那也只是显示出其他国家对现任美国政府有多么地不尊重。
“President Trump would be so much better for U.S.-Russian relations” than a President Clinton, Trump said. “I don’t think he respects Clinton.”
“在处理美俄关系的问题上，特朗普总统会”比克林顿总统“强得多”，特朗普说。“我不认为他会尊重克林顿。”
As an avalanche of criticism poured over Trump, some Republicans defended his comments as a worthy attack on Clinton. Former Rep. Pete Hoekstra of Michigan, a former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said Trump was right to keep hammering Clinton on the subject of her private emails.
在大批批评言论向特朗普袭来之时，一些共和党人却为他的言辞做出辩护，称之为对克林顿的合理攻击。众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)前任主席、曾担任密歇根州众议员的皮特·胡克斯特拉(Pete Hoekstra)表示，特朗普持续就私人邮件问题严厉批评克林顿是对的。
Hoekstra said he was untroubled by Trump’s goading on of a foreign power.
胡克斯特拉称，他不会担心特朗普是在煽动国外势力。
“Trump is bringing up a fairly valid point: Hillary Clinton with her personal email at the State Department, has put the Russians in a very enviable position,” Hoekstra said. “Most likely the Russians already have all that info on Hillary.”
“特朗普提出了一个非常有道理的观点：希拉里·克林顿及其在国务院的私人邮件将俄罗斯置于十分有利的位置，”胡克斯特拉说。“俄罗斯很有可能已经掌握了希拉里所有那些信息。”