WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump picked Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, a widely respected military strategist, as his new national security adviser Monday, calling him “a man of tremendous talent and tremendous experience.”
华盛顿——周一，特朗普总统选择了广受尊敬的军事战略家、陆军中将H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)为新的国家安全顾问，并且称赞他“才华横溢、经验丰富”。
Trump made the announcement at his Mar-a-Lago getaway in Palm Beach, Florida, where he has been interviewing candidates to replace Michael T. Flynn, who was forced out after withholding information from Vice President Mike Pence about a call with Russia’s ambassador.
特朗普在佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)宣布了这项任命，他在那里面试了几个替换迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)的候选人。弗林因为向副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)隐瞒了与俄罗斯大使的通话内容，而被迫下台。
The choice continued Trump’s reliance on high-ranking military officers to advise him on national security. Flynn was a retired three-star general, and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is a retired four-star general. His first choice to replace Flynn, who turned the job down, and two other finalists were current or former senior officers as well.
该任命显示特朗普继续依靠高级军官为他提供国家安全建议。弗林是退役的三星将军，国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)是退役的四星将军。他替换弗林的第一人选婉拒了这个职位，但此人以及另外两个入围者也都是现任或前任高级军官。
Shortly before announcing his appointment, Trump wrote on Twitter: “Meeting with Generals at Mar-a-Lago in Florida. Very interesting!”
在宣布这项任命之前不久，特朗普在Twitter上写道：“正在佛罗里达马阿拉歌庄园和将军们见面。很有意思！”
McMaster is seen as one of the Army’s leading intellectuals, first making a name for himself with a searing critique of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their performance during the Vietnam War and later criticizing the way President George W. Bush’s administration went to war in Iraq.
麦克马斯特被认为是陆军最优秀的知识分子之一，最初建立声名是因为他严厉批评了美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)在越战期间的表现，后来他又对小布什总统政府在伊拉克战争中的做法提出了批评。
As a commander, he was credited with demonstrating how a different counterterrorism strategy could defeat insurgents in Iraq, providing the basis for the change in approach that Gen. David H. Petraeus adopted to shift momentum in a war that the United States was on the verge of losing.
作为指挥官，他展示了如何用不同的反恐战略来打败伊拉克的叛乱分子，为戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯(David H. Petraeus)将军在一场美国濒临失败的战争中转变做法、逆转形势提供了基础，他也因此获得了声誉。
McMaster’s challenge now will be to take over a rattled and demoralized National Security Council apparatus that bristled at Flynn’s leadership and remains uncertain about its place in the White House given the foreign policy interests of Stephen K. Bannon, the former Breitbart News chairman who is the president’s chief strategist.
麦克马斯特现在面临的挑战是接手动荡不安、士气低落、对弗林的领导不满的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)，而且考虑到总统的首席策略师、前布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)主席史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的外交政策利益，它在白宫的位置仍然充满不确定性。
Trump praised McMaster in a brief appearance before reporters on Monday. “I watched and read a lot over the last two days,” he said. “He is highly respected by everyone in the military and we’re very honored to have him.”
特朗普周一在记者面前简短地向麦克马斯特表示了感谢。“过去两天我看了很多资料，”他说。“他获得了军中所有人的极大尊重，我们非常荣幸他能加入。”
McMaster, wearing his uniform, responded in kind. “I’m grateful to you for that opportunity,” he said.
身穿制服的麦克马斯特进行了回应，“感谢你给了我这个机会，”他说。