Donald J. Trump won sweeping victories across the South and in Massachusetts in Tuesday's Republican primaries, a show of strength that underscored the breadth of his appeal and helped him begin to amass a wide delegate advantage despite growing resistance to his candidacy among party leaders.
在周二的共和党初选中，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在南方腹地及马萨诸塞州获得压倒性胜利。这一胜利突显了特朗普受欢迎范围之广，帮助他开始积聚可观的代表票优势，尽管该党领导层愈发反对特朗普成为提名人选。
With victories in Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee and Virginia, Trump's political coalition appears to have transcended the regional and ideological divisions that have shaped the Republican Party in recent years. He dominated in moderate, secular-leaning Massachusetts just as easily as he did in the conservative and heavily evangelical Deep South.
随着特朗普在乔治亚州、亚拉巴马州、田纳西州和弗吉尼亚州获得胜利，支持他的政治联盟似乎超越了近些年来左右共和党的地区及意识形态分歧。他在温和派占优、具有世俗倾向的马萨诸塞州轻松获胜，在保守派主导、福音派基督徒众多的南方腹地也是如此。
But it was not clear if Trump would enjoy a complete sweep. He faced stiff opposition in Texas, the home state of Sen. Ted Cruz, and the races in Oklahoma and Vermont were seen as too close to call shortly after the polls closed.
不过，目前尚不清楚特朗普是否会大获全胜。他在联邦参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)的家乡德克萨斯州遭到巨大阻力，而俄克拉荷马州和佛蒙特州在投票刚结束的时候也显得胜负难分。
Several of the states that Trump won, including Massachusetts and Tennessee, had appeared at one point to be favorable to a mainstream opponent, and Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio both visited those states often.
特朗普赢下的州里，有几个似乎一度支持属于共和党主流的候选人，比如马萨诸塞州和田纳西州。佛罗里达州参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)和俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)均经常访问这些地方。
But no candidate invested more in success on Super Tuesday than Cruz, who spent many days last year campaigning across the South, far afield of the first nominating states, Iowa and New Hampshire.
然而，为了在超级星期二获得成功，克鲁兹付出了比其他候选人都要多的努力。他去年花了很多时间在南方各地拉票，精力投入远远超出首先进行投票的艾奥瓦州和新罕布什尔州。
Cruz had hoped that the March 1 states would catapult him to a decisive advantage in the Republican race. But that strategy did not anticipate the rise of Trump, and Cruz was left hoping to win at best one or two states outside Texas.
克鲁兹曾希望3月1日的投票会使他在共和党初选中获得决定性优势。但这一策略没有预料到特朗普的崛起，克鲁兹只能希望最多赢下除德克萨斯州以外的一两个州。
For Rubio, too, the goal on Super Tuesday was less to overtake Trump than to hold his own against a candidate who has threatened to gain runaway momentum in the race.
对于超级星期二，卢比奥的目标与其说是超越特朗普，还不如说是在面对这个有望在竞选中势不可挡的候选人时保住自己的阵地。
Both Cruz and Rubio have adopted a survival strategy geared more toward denying Trump the delegates he needs to clinch the nomination before the summer convention than toward defeating him outright.
克鲁兹和卢比奥都采用了生存策略，更多的是努力阻止特朗普在今夏的共和党大会前锁定赢得党内提名所需的代表票数，而不是直接将他击败。
But with Trump's initial refusal on Sunday to disavow the support of the Ku Klux Klan and its former grand wizard David Duke, only his latest inflammatory episode, he has reinforced the fears of Republican leaders that his nomination would be a historic mistake for the party.
但特朗普周日最初没有拒绝三K党(Ku Klux Klan)及其前“大法师”戴维·杜克(David Duke)对自己的支持——这只是他曝出的最新的煽动性事件——加剧了共和党领导层的担忧，即特朗普获得提名将会是该党犯下的历史性错误。
Without some sort of extraordinary external intervention or an act of political sacrifice from one or more of his opponents, the only real prospect of stopping Trump's nomination may come through the political equivalent of a gang tackle, with a cluster of candidates effectively banding together to accrue delegates and deny Trump a majority.
如果没有极大的外部干预，或者特朗普的一名或多名对手没有做出政治牺牲，阻止他获得提名的唯一现实的前景可能就是采用政治领域的帮派斗争：一些候选人强力联合，累积代表票，阻止特朗普获得多数。
Advisers to Rubio and Kasich have acknowledged that a contested convention may be their most realistic chance at claiming the Republican nomination, and that they may have a better chance of blocking Trump from winning the 1,237 delegates he needs to be nominated than of taking a majority themselves.
卢比奥和卡西奇的幕僚承认，竞争激烈的共和党大会可能是他们获得共和党提名的最现实的机会，对于他们来说，与自己获得提名所需的1237票相比，阻止特朗普赢得这一多数票的可能性更大。
In a sign of his determination to lock up the nomination swiftly, Trump visited two symbolically important states on Super Tuesday: Florida, Rubio's home state, and Ohio, where Kasich is governor.
特朗普在超级星期二前往了两个极具象征意义的州——卢比奥的家乡佛罗里达和卡西奇担任州长的俄亥俄。这显示了他迅速锁定胜局的决心。