Whether or not Donald J. Trump follows through on his campaign pledges to diminish or possibly abandon American commitments to security alliances such as NATO, his election victory forces nations around the world to begin preparing for the day they can no longer count on the American-backed order.
不管唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)是否会兑现竞选时许下的诺言，减少或可能背弃美国对北约(NATO)等安全联盟的承诺，他的胜选迫使世界各国开始为美国支持的秩序无法再指望的那一天做好准备。
This creates a danger that derives less from Mr. Trump’s words, which are often inconsistent or difficult to parse, than from the inability to predict his actions or how other states might respond to them.
这就产生了一个危险，它更多是源自无法预测特朗普的行动或其他国家可能会对他的行动作何反应，而不是他经常前后矛盾或难以从句法上分析的话。
That uncertainty puts pressure on allies and adversaries alike to position themselves, before Mr. Trump even takes office, for a world that could be on the verge of losing one of its longest-standing pillars of stability.
这种不确定性给美国的盟友和对手都都带来了压力，要求它们甚至在特朗普上台前就确定自己的位置，迎接一个有可能濒临失去存在时间最长的稳定支柱之一的世界。
“You’re going to see a lot of fear among America’s allies, and in some cases they may try to do something about it,” said James Goldgeier, a political scientist and the dean of American University’s School of International Service.
“你会在美国的盟友中看到很多担忧，某些情况下，它们也许会试图对此做点什么，”政治学家、美利坚大学(American University)国际服务学院(School of International Service)院长詹姆斯·戈德盖尔(James Goldgeier)说。
Mr. Trump’s election comes at a moment when rising powers are already pushing against the American-led order: China in Asia, Iran in the Middle East, and particularly Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia in Europe.
特朗普当选时，日渐崛起的大国已经在对抗美国领导的秩序了：中国在亚洲、伊朗在中东，而弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)领导的俄罗斯在欧洲尤甚。
Those powers will be tempted to test their new limits.
这些大国都会受到诱惑，进而考验自己的新极限。
Allies in Europe or Asia, suddenly considering the prospect of facing a hostile power alone, cannot wait to see whether Mr. Trump means what he says, Mr. Goldgeier said, adding that they “will have to start making alternate plans now.”
戈德盖尔称，在欧洲或亚洲，那些突然想到未来需要独自面对一个不友好国家的美国盟友们，迫不及待地想知道特朗普的话是否当真。他接着表示，它们“现在将不得不开始制定备用计划”。
Western European states like Germany and France “may decide they can no longer afford to take a tough stand against Putin’s Russia,” he suggested. “They may decide their best bet is to cut some kind of deal with him,” even if it means tolerating Russian influence over Eastern Europe.
德国和法国等西欧国家“可能会决定，它们不能再对普京领导的俄罗斯采取强硬立场”，他说。“它们或许会决定，最好的办法是和他达成某种协议”，即便这意味着容忍俄罗斯对东欧施加影响。
Or they may not. But that possibility — and the fact that Eastern European states may have to worry, and plan accordingly — shows how uncertainty can build on itself, adding instability to already tumultuous regions.
也许它们不会这么做。但这种可能性——以及东欧国家可能不得不担心起来，并制定相应的计划这一事实——表明，不确定性能够自我发展，给本就动荡的地区增加不稳定性。
Over the past year, I have been asking policy experts to evaluate Mr. Trump’s likely foreign policy, and they have consistently given me the same answer: They are unable to stitch Mr. Trump’s rambling speeches and scant white papers into a coherent worldview.
在过去一年里，我一直在请政策专家评估特朗普可能会实行的外交政策，而我得到的答案始终一样：他们无法把特朗普杂乱无章的演讲和少得可怜的详情报告整理成连贯一致的世界观。
That lack of clarity seemed purely academic when polls predicted a sweeping victory for his rival, Hillary Clinton.
当民调预测特朗普的竞争对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)会取得压倒性的胜利时，这种确定性的缺乏似乎仅仅是学术意义上的。
Now, it is a problem shared by world leaders, friendly and unfriendly, who had long planned their foreign policies around the role reliably played by the United States.
现在，它成了世界领导人共同面临的一个问题，无论友好与否，长期以来，他们一直是围绕美国所扮演的确切角色来部署自己的外交政策的。
Instead, countries must prepare for a very unfamiliar world, one whose most powerful nation and global guarantor is no longer so easy to predict. Even if they believe that the United States-led order will most likely remain, they have little choice but to hedge against its disintegration — acting as if the world had already returned to a bygone era of shifting alliances and regional spheres of power.
如今，各国必须为一个非常不熟悉的世界做准备。在这个世界里，不再能轻松预测出最强大的国家和全球担保人的动向。即便认为美国领导的秩序极有可能会保持不变，他们除了为其瓦解做出防范措施外也几乎别无选择——表现得好像世界已经回到了很久以前的一个时代，在其中，联盟和地区性势力范围不断变化。
The difficulty of predicting Mr. Trump’s foreign policy could create other forms of destabilizing uncertainty.
难以预测特朗普的外交政策带来了其他形式的不确定性，对稳定造成破坏。
Asked about the international agreement to restrict Iran’s nuclear program, Daryl G. Kimball, director of the Arms Control Association, said it was unclear to him — and most likely to Middle Eastern leaders — whether Mr. Trump “would deliberately or inadvertently take actions that unravel that agreement.”
被问及限制伊朗核计划的国际协议时，美国军控协会(Arms Control Association)的主任达里尔·G·金博尔(Daryl G. Kimball)说，在他看来尚不清楚，特朗普是否会“有意或无意地采取破坏该协议的行动”。而在中东领导人看来，这是极有可能的。
Because Middle Eastern countries would so struggle to predict or plan around Mr. Trump’s Iran policies, and because he seems thus far unlikely to win over European leaders whom he has insulted from the campaign trail, Mr. Kimball said, “the future of the Iran deal is now in greater jeopardy.”
金博尔称，因为中东国家很难预测特朗普的对伊政策，或是制定相应的计划，也因为迄今为止他似乎不太可能说服自己在竞选期间辱骂过的欧洲领导人，“伊朗协议的未来现在处于更大的危险中”。
While Mr. Kimball doubted that renewed Iranian nuclear development would inspire other Middle Eastern states to seek their own nuclear programs, the region’s turmoil seems likely to worsen if American-brokered restrictions fall away.
尽管金博尔怀疑，伊朗重新发展核计划不会使其他中东国家寻求自己的核计划，但如果由美国从中促成的限制措施消失，该地区的动荡局势看上去可能会恶化。
Some states, rather than reconciling with the threats from which the United States currently protects them, could consider extreme steps to protect themselves without American help.
当前，美国保护着一些国家免受威胁。如果没有了美国的帮助，这些国家可能会考虑采取极端措施保护自己，而不是与那些威胁和解。
Mr. Kimball worried that South Korea, for example, could inch closer to developing its own nuclear weapons program. Mr. Trump’s threats to withdraw American troops from the country, and North Korea’s growing nuclear and missile programs, “could be a tipping point,” Mr. Kimball said.
比如，金博尔担心，韩国离发展自己的核计划可能会更近。特朗普从该国撤军的威胁，以及朝鲜日渐增强的导弹和核计划，“可能是一个引爆点”，金博尔说。
Smaller states will face even harder choices.
较小的国家将面临更为艰难的选择。
“If you’re in the Baltics, you now have no idea whether you can count on the U.S. if Putin makes a move,” Mr. Goldgeier said, referring to Mr. Trump’s suggestions that he might not fulfill American treaty obligations to defend a NATO ally such as Estonia from Russian aggression.
“如果你是波罗的海国家，现在你完全不知道，如果普京采取行动，你是否能指望美国，”戈德盖尔说。他指的是特朗普曾表示，他可能不会履行美国的北约义务，在爱沙尼亚等北约盟国遭到俄罗斯侵略时予以保护。
Similar dynamics could play out in Asia, where countries like the Philippines and Malaysia are already straining to balance the United States and a rising China. If American support looks less assured, then China becomes more attractive.
类似的态势可能也会出现在亚洲，菲律宾和马来西亚等国已经尽力在美国和崛起的中国之间取得平衡。如果美国的支持显得不太有把握，那么中国会变得更有吸引力。
Such defections would fracture the region’s relatively pro-American unity, allowing Beijing to assert a greater role.
这种倒戈将破坏该地区相对亲美的统一局面，使北京能够发挥更大的作用。
Mr. Goldgeier said it was impossible to predict what precisely would happen, because Mr. Trump’s plans are broadly unknown and because it is difficult to guess how the world would meet drastic changes in the American role.
戈德盖尔说，不可能进行准确预测，因为特朗普的计划大部分不为人知，而且很难猜测其他国家会如何应对美国角色的剧变。
Mostly, we know what he opposes: “There’s no indication that Donald Trump wants to continue the kind of foreign policy that the U.S. has followed since World War II,” he said.
我们知道的大多是他反对什么：“没有迹象表明，唐纳德·特朗普想要继续美国自‘二战’以来采取的那种外交政策，”他说。
Whatever path the next president takes, Mr. Goldgeier added after a pause, “it’s going to be very different.”
戈德盖尔在停顿片刻后补充道，不管下一任总统采取什么路线，“都将会非常不同。”