WASHINGTON — Donald John Trump was inaugurated as the 45th president of the United States on Friday, ushering in a new and more unpredictable era in which he vowed to shatter the established order and restore American greatness.
华盛顿——周五，唐纳德·约翰·特朗普(Donald John Trump)正式就任美国第45届总统。这个国家迎来一个新的更加不可预测的时代，特朗普承诺要在自己的任期内打破既有的秩序，恢复美国的荣光。
From the West Front of the Capitol, overlooking a crowd of hundreds of thousands as rain began to fall, Mr. Trump presented a dark vision of a nation afflicted by division and dislocation, exploited and forgotten by a group of Washington elites and diminished around the world. His arrival, he promised, would finally turn it around.
从国会大厦西首可以看到下面聚集了几十万人，天上落着雨。特朗普展示了一个灰暗的国家前景——充满分歧与混乱困扰，被一群华盛顿精英剥削和遗忘，在全世界被贬低。他承诺，他的到来最终将扭转这一切。
“This American carnage stops right here and stops right now,” he declared in a forceful 16-minute Inaugural Address.
“这场美国残杀结束于此时此刻，”他在持续16分钟的颇为有力的就职演说中宣布。
“The time for empty talk is over,” he added later. “Now arrives the hour for action. Do not allow anyone to tell you it cannot be done.”
“讲空话的时代结束了，”他后来接着讲道。“现在到了行动的时间。不要让任何人告诉你这是做不到的。”
He said the inauguration represented not just the peaceful transfer of power from one party to another. “We are transferring power from Washington, D.C., and giving it back to you the people,” he said.
他表示，就职仪式代表的不仅是权力从一个政党向另一个政党的和平交接。“我们在将权力从华盛顿特区转移，交回你们——人民——手中，”他说。
“For too long,” he added, “a small group in our nation’s capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the cost. Washington flourished, but the people did not share in its wealth. Politicians prospered, but the jobs left and the factories closed. The establishment protected itself but not the citizens of our country. Their victories have not been your victories. Their triumphs have not been your triumphs.”
“长久以来，”他接着讲道，“我们首都的一小群人获得执政带来的利益，代价却要人民来承受。华盛顿壮大了，人们却没有从它的财富中分一杯羹。政客们富有了，但工作机会却流失了，工厂关闭了。建制势力维护的是它自身，而非我们国家的公民。他们的胜利不是你们的胜利。他们的成就也不是你们的成就。”
He vowed to reverse that trend and make America first. “The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.”
他承诺要扭转这种趋势，让美国优先。“我们国家遭遗忘的男男女女将不会再被遗忘。”
Mr. Trump, wearing a dark suit with red tie and accompanied by his wife, Melania, in a powder-blue suit, intends to waste little time after taking the 35-word oath that was administered by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. to start unraveling the policies of his departing predecessor, President Obama. Within hours of taking office, the new president could begin signing executive orders freezing regulations put in place in the last weeks of Mr. Obama’s tenure and reversing policies on health care, immigration and other areas.
特朗普身着黑色西装，打着红色领带，旁边站着身着浅蓝色套装的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)。在首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)的主持下念完35字的宣誓词后，特朗普不打算浪费什么时间，很快会拆解他离任的前任奥巴马的政策。上任不到几小时，这位新总统就可能开始签署总统令，冻结在奥巴马任期最后一周实施的规章，推翻他在医疗保健、移民和其他领域的政策。
His son Donald Trump Jr. said the new president was coming to grips with the gravity of his new position, even if it did not necessarily seem so in public. “He’s been humbled by the whole process,” he said on MSNBC. “And you know, whether he shows that outwardly or not is, you know, is one thing.”
他的儿子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr. )表示，新总统正在应对这份新职位的分量，尽管在外界看起来或许不一定是这样。“整个过程令他感到谦卑，”他在MSNBC频道上说。“你知道，他是不是在表面表现出来这一点，则是另一回事。”
Through a long day of pomp and pageantry that will end with three inaugural balls, Mr. Trump will have the opportunity to revel in his moment of triumph. Surrounded by relatives, lawmakers, former presidents and other dignitaries, including Mr. Obama, and the Democrat he beat last November, Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump took command of a country unsettled after one of the most polarizing periods in modern times.
这盛大、隆重又漫长的一天将以三场就职舞会作结，特朗普可以在这整个过程中尽情享受自己的胜利时刻。在亲人、议员、多位前总统和其他要人——包括奥巴马和他在去年11月击败的民主党对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)——的环绕下，特朗普接管了一个动荡不安的、经历了现代史上最为两极化时期的国家。
His critics have made clear they will not defer even for a day to a new leader they accuse of playing to racism and hatred. Demonstrators gathered early Friday morning to protest the new president. Liberal groups have organized a march that they expect to draw as many as 200,000 to downtown Washington on Saturday.
他的批评者已经明确表示，他们不会服从一位他们认为迎合种族主义和仇恨情绪的新领导人，哪怕一天都不会。示威者在周五一大早聚集起来，表达对新任总统的抗议。自由派团队组织了一场游行，他们预计这场行动会吸引多达20万人在周六来到华盛顿市中心。
Violence broke out an hour before Mr. Trump was inaugurated when protesters smashed shop windows around Franklin Square in downtown Washington. A Bank of America branch had all its windows shattered and a Starbucks was left with a gaping hole in its glass front door. Police officers in riot helmets used pepper spray to break up groups of protesters, who spread out and kept breaking windows.
在特朗普正式就职一小时前，发生了暴力事件，抗议者击碎了位于华盛顿市中心富兰克林广场(Franklin Square)周围的商店橱窗。美国银行的一个营业点所有的窗户都被击碎，一家星巴克的玻璃正门也被砸出一个大洞。带着防暴头盔的警察用胡椒喷雾驱散抗议群体，他们散开后，继续打砸窗户。
For Mr. Trump, the ceremonies capped a remarkable rise to power that defied all expectations, and his ascension amounts to a hostile takeover of a capital facing its most significant disruption in generations. While officially a Republican, Mr. Trump has at times assailed leaders of both parties and positioned himself as the ultimate outsider, making clear that he will follow his own instincts in determining the nation’s course.
对特朗普而言，这些仪式象征着他打破所有的预期，达至权力的巅峰，而他的上台相当于对一个面临数十年来最重大扰乱的首都的一次恶意收购。尽管他的正式身份是一名共和党人，但特朗普有时会攻击两党领导层，摆出彻底的局外人姿态，表明他在决定这个国家的进程时会遵循自己的直觉。
America has never seen a president quite like Mr. Trump, the son and grandson of immigrants who grew up to become a real estate magnate, casino owner, beauty pageant operator and reality television star whose tumultuous love life played out on tabloid front pages.
美国从没出现过像特朗普这样的总统。他是移民的子孙，长大后成为房地产巨头、赌场所有者、选美比赛经营者和真人秀明星，混乱的的感情生活会占据通俗小报的头版。
Never before has the presidential oath been administered to someone who had never served either in public office or as a general in the military. At age 70, Mr. Trump will become the oldest president ever sworn in for the first time and the first born in New York since Franklin D. Roosevelt.
总统宣誓词从来不曾由一个未担任过任何公职、不曾在军队中担任过将领的人跟着念出。现年70岁的特朗普将成为首次宣誓就职年纪最大的总统，也是自富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)以来首位出生于纽约州的总统。
He takes over on Friday without much of a team in place. Although he has named nominees for every cabinet post, the Senate confirmation process has slowed and few sub-cabinet officials have been announced. Mr. Trump has asked more than 50 officials from Mr. Obama’s administration, particularly in security agencies, to stay temporarily to ensure the continuity of government.
周五接掌这个职位时，特朗普的团队还没怎么到位。尽管他已经为所有内阁职位确定了提名人选，但参议院的确认程序比较缓慢，已经宣布的高级行政职位任命也非常少。特朗普要求奥巴马政府的50多名官员，尤其是安全部门的官员暂时留任，以确保政府持续运转。
For the nation’s 58th inauguration, Mr. Trump opted largely to follow tradition. He and Mrs. Trump, a Slovenian-born former supermodel, started the day at a service at St. John’s Episcopal Church across Lafayette Square from the White House, then made the short trip to the executive mansion for coffee with Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle. From there, the two presidents shared a limousine for the short motorcade to the Capitol.
对于这个国家的第58届总统就职典礼，特朗普大体选择遵循传统。这一天，他和出生于斯洛文尼亚、曾为超模的特朗普夫人先是参加了一场在圣约翰圣公会教堂(St. John’s Episcopal Church)——就在白宫旁边的拉斐特广场(Lafayette Square)对面——举行的仪式，然后前往不远处的总统官邸，与奥巴马及其妻子米歇尔(Michelle)一起喝咖啡。之后，两位总统从那里乘坐同一辆豪华轿车，一起前往距离不远的国会大厦。
In addition to Mr. Obama, former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush are attending the ceremony, though all four opposed Mr. Trump’s election. The elder President George Bush remained hospitalized in Houston, where he was recovering from pneumonia. More than four dozen House Democrats announced they would boycott the event in protest.
除了奥巴马，前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)、比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)也出席了就职典礼，尽管他们四人都反对特朗普当选总统。老乔治·布什总统还在休斯顿住院，在那里治疗肺炎。40多名众议院民主党人宣布他们会抵制这场活动，以示抗议。