WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump, citing a flurry of hostile statements from North Korea, pulled out of a highly anticipated summit meeting with Kim Jong Un on Thursday, telling the North Korean leader “this missed opportunity is a truly sad moment in history.”
华盛顿——唐纳德·特朗普总统周四以朝鲜发出的一连串充满敌意的言论为由，取消了与金正恩(Kim Jong Un)备受期待的会晤，并对金正恩表示“这个失去的机会堪称历史上令人遗憾的事件”。
But Trump said later that the meeting with Kim, which had been scheduled for June 12 in Singapore, could still happen, even as he renewed threats of military action against the North and vowed to continue a campaign of economic pressure against Kim’s regime.
但特朗普后来又说，与金正恩的会晤仍有可能举行，不过他同时再次威胁要对朝鲜采取军事行动，并发誓继续对金正恩政权施加经济压力。双方的会晤原定于6月12日在新加坡举行。
The mixed messages deepened the uncertainty around a diplomatic encounter that had an air of unreality from the time in March when Trump spontaneously accepted Kim’s invitation to meet.
相互矛盾的表述增加了这场外交会面的不确定性。从特朗普3月主动接受金正恩的会面邀请开始，此事便给人不真实的感觉。
The president made his announcement in a formal and at times mournful-sounding letter to Kim, in which Trump cited North Korea’s derisive statements about Vice President Mike Pence as the specific reason for canceling the meeting.
在写给金正恩的一封不时流露出惋惜之意的正式信函中，特朗普公布了自己的决定。他在信中称，取消会面的具体原因是朝鲜嘲笑美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)的言论。
“I believe this is a tremendous setback for North Korea and, indeed for the world,” Trump said at a bill-signing ceremony later in the morning. He said he was waiting to see whether Kim would take “constructive dialogue and actions” toward relinquishing his nuclear arsenal.
“我相信这对朝鲜，其实对全世界来说都是一个巨大的挫折，”特朗普随后在上午的一个法案签署仪式上说。他说他在等着看金正恩会不会采取“有建设性的对话和行动”，放弃核武库。
“I think they want to do what’s right,” Trump said. “I really think that they want to do — and it was only recently that this has been taking place. And I think I understand why it’s been taking place.”
“我认为他们想做正确的事情，”特朗普说。“我真的认为他们想这么做——直到最近才发生这样的事。我想我明白为什么会发生这样的事。”
The summit had seemed to be on perilous ground even before the most recent exchanges between Washington and Pyongyang. American and North Korean officials staked out deeply divergent positions on how quickly the North should surrender its nuclear arsenal, casting a shadow on what would be a history-making encounter that clearly beguiled both leaders.
早在华盛顿和平壤最近的交锋之前，会晤似乎就陷入危险的境地。美国和朝鲜官员在朝鲜应该用多快的速度放弃核武库上的立场大相径庭。这给这场双方领导人显然都有兴趣的历史性会面蒙上了一层阴影。
“Based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I believe it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting,” Trump wrote. “Please let this letter serve to represent that the Singapore summit, for the good of both parties, but to the detriment of the world, will not take place.”
“鉴于你最近发表的声明表现了巨大的怒气和公开的敌意，我感到在这个时候不适合举行这个筹划已久的会见，”特朗普写道。“考虑到对当事双方都有好处，但对全世界不利，请将此函视为不举行新加坡峰会的表示。”
A North Korean official had referred to Pence as a “political dummy” after the vice president said Kim could meet the same fate as Libya’s leader, Moammar Gadhafi, if he did not make a deal with the United States. Libyan rebels, aided by a NATO bombing campaign, killed Gadhafi during the Arab Spring upheavals in 2011.
在副总统彭斯称金正恩如果不同美国达成协议，就会落得与利比亚领导人穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Moammar Gadhafi)一样的下场后，朝鲜的一名官员称彭斯“是政治上多么愚笨的傻瓜”。在2011年的阿拉伯之春动乱期间，利比亚反政府武装在北约(NATO)的一场轰炸行动的协助下杀死了卡扎菲。
North Korean officials were infuriated last week when Trump’s national security adviser, John R. Bolton, first floated the voluntary disarmament of Libya in 2003 as a precedent for North Korea.
上周，当特朗普的国家安全顾问约翰·R·博尔顿(John R. Bolton)首次提出让朝鲜效仿利比亚在2003年进行的自愿裁军时，朝鲜官员大怒。
“We will neither beg the U.S. for dialogue nor take the trouble to persuade them if they do not want to sit together with us,” said Choe Son Hui, a vice foreign minister. She said it was up to Washington whether “the U.S. will meet us at a meeting room or encounter us at nuclear-to-nuclear showdown.”
“朝鲜从未向美国请求对话，若美国不愿同朝鲜坐下来谈，就不会强求，”朝鲜外务省副相崔善姬(Choe Son Hui)说，并表示“要么在会谈场合同朝鲜见面，要么在核对核的决战场上见，这完全取决于美国的决心和行动”。
Trump’s letter left open the possibility that a meeting could get back on track, though he put the onus to do that entirely on the North. “If you change your mind having to do with this most important summit,” he said to Kim, “please do not hesitate to call me or write.”
特朗普的信表明会面仍有可能继续举行，但他也把责任全部推给了朝鲜。“对于这次极其重要的会面，如果你改变了主意，”他对金正恩说，“请随时给我打电话或写信。”
He raised that possibility again later in the morning. “It’s possible that the existing summit could take place, or a summit at some later date,” he said. “Nobody should be anxious. We have to get it right.”
他后来又在上午提升了这种可能性。“现在的峰会很可能会举行，或者晚一些时候会有一场峰会，”他说。“大家不应紧张。我们必须要把这件事做好。”
There was almost a jilted tone in Trump’s message, which captured how deeply invested he was in a summit. As recently as Wednesday, he expressed enthusiasm about meeting Kim, telling Fox News that he would be open to a phased denuclearization of North Korea, provided its nuclear program was rapidly shut down.
特朗普的信息中几乎带着一种被抛弃的语气，体现出他对于峰会的投入之多。甚至就在周三，他还表达了对与金正恩会面的热情，告诉福克斯新闻(Fox News)他对朝鲜阶段性无核化敞开大门，前提是该国核计划能迅速关停。
That is a more flexible position that the one sketched out by Bolton, under which North Korea would surrender its entire nuclear program without any reciprocal incentives from the United States.
这比博尔顿拟定的立场要灵活得多，按照博尔顿的计划，朝鲜将在没有任何来自美国的互惠激励下，交出整个核计划。
For Trump, who never tires of extolling his dealmaking skills, the abrupt cancellation also raises questions about how he handled Kim. After threatening the North with “fire and fury” and ridiculing Kim as “Little Rocket Man,” Trump accepted the North Korean leader’s invitation to meet on the spot when South Korean officials conveyed it in March.
对赞美自己的交易能力从不厌倦的特朗普来说，峰会突然取消还引发了关于他如何应对金正恩的问题。在用“炮火与怒火”威胁朝鲜、嘲弄金正恩为“小火箭人”后，今年3月，当韩国官员转达了这位朝鲜领导人会面的邀请后，特朗普当场就接受了。
Trump’s reversal creates a major crisis for South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, who orchestrated the diplomatic thaw that led to the agreement by Trump to meet. He visited Washington on Tuesday to reassure Trump about the coming meeting.
特朗普的转变给韩国总统文在寅造成重大危机，后者精心安排了这场外交关系融解，最终带来了特朗普对会面的首肯。为了获得特朗普对于即将到来的会面的保证，文在寅于周二访问了华盛顿。
Moon said the cancellation was “disconcerting and very regrettable,” adding that the current communication between North Korea and the United States does not work to resolve the disputes between the two nations. He urged Trump and Kim to talk directly.
文在寅表示，峰会取消“令人不安和非常遗憾”，并且补充说，目前美朝两国间的沟通无法解决两国间的争议。他敦促特朗普与金正恩直接对话。
“The denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and building a permanent peace on the peninsula is a task we cannot give up or delay,” Moon said in a meeting Thursday with his National Security Council, according to his office.
“朝鲜半岛无核化、在半岛上实现和平是一项我们不能放弃或拖延的任务，”根据文在寅办公室的消息，他周四在与其国家安全委员会举行的会议上说。
Other experts said the failure was predictable, given the yawning gulf between the two sides.
其他专家表示鉴于双方之间的巨大鸿沟，峰会失败是可以预见的。
“It was obvious from the president’s tweets that he had not studied the prior negotiations with North Korea,” said Michael J. Green, a former Asia adviser to President George W. Bush. “If he had spent time with anyone who had done this before, it was clear that North Korea was going for sanctions relief and de facto recognition as a nuclear weapons state.”
“从总统的推文中很明显可以看出，他没有研究过以前与朝鲜的谈判，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的前亚洲顾问迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说。“如果他花时间和任何一个曾经参与过这种事的人聊过，那朝鲜希望解除制裁和被认可为一个事实上的核国家的意图就很明显了。”