It was the author Kelly Oxford, a social media powerhouse, who got things started on Friday night.
整件事是由作家、社交媒体达人凯利·奥克斯福德(Kelly Oxford)在周五晚上引发的。
“Women: tweet me your first assaults,” she wrote on Twitter at 7:48 p.m. “They aren’t just stats. I’ll go first: Old man on city bus grabs my ‘pussy’ and smiles at me, I’m 12.”
“姐妹们，请和我分享你们第一次遭受侵犯的经历，”她于7点48分在Twitter上写道。“它们不仅仅是统计数字。我先来：一名老年男子在市内的公共汽车上抓我的‘下体’，还冲我微笑，那年我12岁。”
When she first posted the message, Ms. Oxford said in an interview later, she did not expect more than a handful of replies. “It was such a personal question,” she said. “I thought, ‘No one is going to share anything on Twitter.’”
奥克斯福德后来在采访中表示，她当初发帖时，觉得响应者肯定寥寥无几。“这是一个非常私人的问题，”她说。“我心想，‘谁会在Twitter上分享呀’。”
Yet by Saturday morning, she was getting as many as 50 responses per minute: often-explicit, first-person accounts of molestation. A hashtag had materialized: “#notokay.” The Twitter posts continued to pour in through the weekend. And by Monday afternoon, nearly 27 million people had responded or visited Ms. Oxford’s Twitter page.
然而到了周六早上，她竟然每分钟可以收到多达50条的回复：人们以第一人称讲述着被骚扰的经历，大多都颇为直白。一个标签是“#notokay”（不OK）。这类Twitter帖子在周末继续大量涌现。截至周日下午，将近2700万人回帖或者浏览了奥克斯福德的Twitter。
As swiftly as the release of a recording of Donald J. Trump engaging in banter about forcing himself on women had dealt a potentially fatal blow to his presidential campaign, it also had become a rallying cry for survivors of sexual assault, harassment and other forms of abuse.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)以满不在乎的口吻谈及自己非礼女性的录音曝光后，恐怕对其总统竞选立刻造成了致命打击，同时也成为了遭受性侵、骚扰以及其他侵害行为受害者的集结令。
“I won’t give details, but I was 12, and he went to jail,” Emily Willingham, a writer, posted on Twitter.
“我不想谈论细节，但我当时12岁，他进了监狱，”作家艾米莉·威林厄姆(Emily Willingham)在Twitter上写道。
A social media movement was born as multitudes of women came forward to share their stories. The result has been a kind of collective, nationwide purge of painful, often long-buried memories.
许多女性站出来分享自身经历，引发一场社交媒体运动。结果，往往被埋在心底的痛苦记忆从全国各地纷纷涌现出来。
Facebook pages and Twitter feeds filled with comments and multiplying threads from women who recalled being groped by doctors, by piano teachers, by photography instructors, by perfect strangers. They told stories of being flashed on the bus by masturbators, of having male colleagues rub up against them at the copy machine in their office, of dates and bosses demanding sex.
女人们回忆起医生、钢琴老师、摄影老师乃至完完全全的陌生人对自己动手动脚的往事，Facebook和Twitter上充斥着她们给出的评论和讨论串。她们说有手淫者在公交车上冲着她们露阴，男同事在办公室的复印机旁磨蹭她们的身体，约会对象或老板要求发生性关系。
Sasha Stone, an entertainment journalist, told of being forced to perform oral sex on a man “after he offered me a ride home and then threatened me. I was 14.”
娱乐记者萨沙·斯通(Sasha Stone)说自己曾被迫为一个男人口交：“我搭他的顺风车回家，后来受到威胁。我当时14岁。”
Wendy Luxenburg, 45, a hospital administrator in Chicago, recalled being in a Florida department store with her mother: “She was an aisle away. Man walks by me, rubbed by crotch. I was 11.”
芝加哥一家医院的管理者、现年45岁的温迪·卢森布格(Wendy Luxenburg)回忆起与母亲在佛罗里达州一家百货商场里的遭遇：“我跟她隔着一个通道。一个男人经过我时，摸我的裆部。当时我11岁。”
And the actress Amber Tamblyn wrote on Instagram of being accosted at a nightclub by an ex-boyfriend who grabbed her by the hair and, with his other hand, lifted her by her vagina, bruising her badly, and “carried me, like something he owned, like a piece of trash, out of the club.”
女演员爱波·塔布琳(Amber Tamblyn)在Instagram上写下了在一家夜店里被前男友挑衅的经历，那人一手抓住她的头发，另一只手抓住她的下体向上抬，结果造成了严重的皮外伤，“他把我带出夜店，就好像我是他的附属品，一件垃圾。”
This is scarcely the first protest movement to emerge in response to violence against women: The 1970s gave rise to the first Take Back the Night candlelight marches.
这并非针对女性的暴力首次引发抗议活动：“还我安宁夜”(Take Back the Night)烛光游行最早爆发于上世纪70年代。
More recently, after a Toronto police officer told college students that if women wanted to avoid rape, they should not dress like “sluts,” groups in cities from New York to New Delhi have staged SlutWalks.
往近里说，在多伦多警方告诉大学生，如果女性想不被强奸就别穿得像个“荡妇”之后，从纽约到新德里等许多城市的女性团体都举行了“荡妇游行”(SlutWalk)。
Nor is Mr. Trump the first public figure whose sexual behavior has been scrutinized. It seems fair to wonder if Bill Clinton could be elected today, given what is now known about his extramarital history. And, of course, there was Anthony Weiner, with his penchant for sending lewd social media messages and photos.
特朗普也不是性行为受到密切关注的第一个公众人物。鉴于比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)已经被曝光的婚外情史，似乎有理由质疑如果是在今天他是否还能当选。当然了，还有安东尼·韦纳(Anthony Weiner)，他喜欢通过社交媒体发送猥亵信息和图片。
But to many victims of sexual assault, Mr. Trump’s words struck a particular nerve. It was not simply that he is the Republican presidential nominee, and that a hot microphone had captured him speaking unguardedly. It was his casual tone, the manner in which he and the television personality Billy Bush appeared to be speaking a common language, many women said, that gave Mr. Trump’s boasts a special resonance.
但对很多性侵受害者而言，特朗普的话触动了最敏感的神经。这并非仅仅因为他是共和党总统提名人，以及没关闭的麦克风录下了毫无顾忌的言辞。许多女性都表示，特朗普那种随意的语气，以及他和电视名人比利·布什(Billy Bush)似乎颇有共同语言的样子，令他的自夸之词引发特殊反响。
What he said and how he said it seemed to say as much about the broader environment toward women — an environment that had kept many of these women silent for so long — as they did about the candidate. And Mr. Trump’s dismissal of his actions as “locker room talk” only underscored the point.
他所说的话以及说话的方式，似乎反映了女性所面临的大环境——这种环境让许多女性在很长时间里缄口不言——也揭示出这位候选人的本性。而特朗普把自己的言辞轻描淡写地归为“更衣室谈话”，只会更加突显这一点。
“This is RAPE CULTURE — the cultural conditioning of men and boys to feel entitled to treat women as objects,” Jill Gallenstein, 40, a retail executive in Los Angeles, wrote on Facebook. “It’s women and girls questioning what they have done to provoke such behavior. It’s the dismissing of this behavior because ‘it’s the way it has always been.’ It’s justifying the behavior because other powerful men have done it too. ‘Locker room talk’ normalizes this behavior — what we say matters.”
“这是强奸文化——在这种文化环境中，男人和男孩们会觉得自己有权把女性当成物品来对待，”洛杉矶的零售业主管、现年40岁的吉尔·加伦斯坦(Jill Gallenstein)在Facebook上写道。“女人和女孩们会怀疑自己是不是做错了什么，才会招致此类行径。这类行径会被淡化，因为‘事情一贯如此’。这类行径会显得合理，因为其他有权势的男人也这么做。‘更衣室谈话’会让这类行径成为常态——我们的话很重要。”
That locker room talk also seemed to create its own momentum online.
更衣室谈话这种说法似乎也在网上发酵了。
“I’ve never really thought about these moments cumulatively before,” Julie Oppenheimer of Chicago wrote on Facebook, after listing a few episodes of her own, including being kissed on the mouth by the janitor at her synagogue when she was 13. “In part, because they seem so ‘small’ compared to what many have experienced — not worthy of consideration. That’s because all of us already live in Trump’s world, where these behaviors are commonplace.”
“以前我从未把这些时刻串起来思考过，”芝加哥的朱莉·奧本海默(Julie Oppenheimer)在Facebook上写道。那之前，她列出了自己经历的一幕幕往事，包括13岁那年在常去的犹太教堂被看门人亲吻嘴唇。“在某种程度上是因为，比起很多人的遭遇，它们似乎都是很‘小’的事情——不值得考虑。因为我们所有人都身处特朗普生活的世界之中，对这类行为见怪不怪。”
Laura Sabransky was one of many women who added to Ms. Oppenheimer’s thread, writing that she had been given date-rape drugs three times between high school and college. “I call Trump a walking trigger alert,” she said in an interview. “He is triggering anxiety and PTSD-like reactions in women, me included.”
劳拉·萨布朗斯基(Laura Sabransky)是给奧本海默回帖的许多女性之一。她写道，上高中和大学期间，她曾三次被人下约会迷奸药。“我管特朗普叫‘会走路的触发警报器’，”她在接受采访时说。“他正在女性群体中引发焦虑和类似于创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)的反应，我也是其中一个。”
Even before the release of the 2005 recording of Mr. Trump, 2016 was shaping up as something of a watershed year for awareness of sexual harassment, between the pending trial against Bill Cosby and the high-profile case of Brock Turner, the former Stanford University student who was convicted of sexual assault.
在特朗普2005年的那段录音被曝光前，比尔·考斯比(Bill Cosby)候判一事，以及被控性侵的斯坦福大学前学生布罗克·特纳(Brock Turner)那桩引人注目的案子，已经把2016年变成了反性骚扰意识的分水岭之年。
For many women watching and reacting to the weekend’s events, the surprise news conference on Facebook Live that Mr. Trump staged before Sunday night’s debate, with three women who have long accused Mr. Clinton of sexual assault or harassment, only compounded the damage he had done in the original recording. They saw him not as giving voice to victims of sexual abuse but as using the women as props.
参加周日晚间的辩论前，特朗普在Facebook Live上召开了一场新闻发布会，找来了长期指控克林顿性侵或性骚扰的三名女性。对许多密切关注周末的事件并受到触动的女性而言，这场令人吃惊的发布会只会加重他最初的那段录音所造成的伤害。她们认为他并不是给性侵受害者发声的机会，而是把这几位女性当成了可资利用的道具。
“It’s pretty sad when you see it as, ‘My behavior is not as bad as another man’s behavior,’” said Sonia Ossorio, the president of the National Organization for Women of New York. “The irony for me is, in a campaign short on any concrete policies, Donald Trump has accidentally shed light on a very serious issue.”
“那意思是说‘我的所作所为还没有另一个男人那么恶劣’，真是太悲哀了，”全国妇女组织(National Organization for Women)纽约分部主席索尼娅·奥索里奥(Sonia Osorio)说。“在我看来颇为讽刺的是，特朗普在竞选中虽然没拿出任何像样的具体政策主张，却意外地让世人关注到了一个非常严肃的议题。”
Amy Richards, a co-founder of the Third Wave Foundation, a group for young feminists, said that many sexual abuse victims who unburdened themselves after Mr. Trump’s video did not want his comments to be seen as anomalous. “Some of it was so that we automatically didn’t go to this place of having this one instance be an exception and therefore more excusable,” she said. “Yes, this is women speaking up, but it’s speaking up to all of the Donald Trumps in our lives.”
青年女性主义者团体第三次浪潮基金会(Third Wave Foundation)的联合创始人艾米·理查兹(Amy Richards)说，在特朗普的视频曝光后吐露心声的许多女性，并不希望人们认为他的话有多异常。“在某种程度上是如此，因为这样一来我们就不会自动把这件事归为特例，觉得有情可原，”她说。“是的，女性在喊话，但喊话的对象是我们生活中所有的唐纳德·特朗普们。”
And there appear to be many.
这样的人似乎太多了。
“Grabbed from behind on the street. Thought it was my fault because I was wearing a dress,” Lynne Boschee, 50, of Phoenix, wrote on Twitter. “Never told anyone. I was 14.”
“我在街上曾被人从身后抓了一把。尽管那是我的错，因为我穿着一条连衣裙，”来自凤凰城、现年50岁林恩·博斯奇(Lynne Boschee)在Twitter上写道。“我从来没跟任何人提起过。我当时14岁。”