Jill Harth’s first concern with Donald Trump’s hands wasn’t that they were small. It’s that they were everywhere.
对于唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的手，吉尔·哈思(Jill Harth)最关切的不是它们长得小，而是它们到处乱摸。
Harth and her longtime boyfriend were in meetings with Trump to forge a business partnership. “He was relentless,” Harth recalled in an interview, describing how on Dec. 12, 1992, he took the couple to dinner and a club — and then situated himself beside Harth and ran his hands up her skirt, to her crotch. “I didn’t know how to handle it. I would go away from him and say I have to go to the restroom. It was the escape route.”
哈思与多年的男友曾与特朗普举行过多次会面，寻求在商业上的合作。“他这个人没完没了，”哈思回想起双方的一次碰面，那是1992年12月12日，特朗普带着这一对情侣去吃晚饭，还去了一家夜店，后来他在哈思旁边坐下，把手伸向她的裙子里，向她的两腿中间摸过去。“我不知道该怎么处理这种情况。我会起身离开，说要去洗手间。借此躲开。”
We’ve all heard of Trump’s unethical or loutish behavior, most recently in a 2005 recording unearthed by The Washington Post on Friday in which he boasts of kissing and groping women. The story that Harth and the boyfriend, George Houraney, tell of their interactions with Trump over six years — including business cheating and attempted rape — shows how that predation worked in practice. “He name-dropped continuously,” Harth said under oath in a deposition in a subsequent lawsuit, “when he wasn’t groping me.”
我们都听说过特朗普不道德的，或者说古怪愚蠢的行为，最近的例子是《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post )于上周五曝光的一份2005年的录音，他在里面夸耀自己如何对女人又亲又摸。从哈思与男友乔治·胡拉尼(George Houraney)所讲述的他们与特朗普长达六年的交往故事中（包含商业欺诈和强奸未遂情节），我们可以看到他究竟是如何凌辱他人的。哈思在后来发起的诉讼中一次作证时说，“他不是在对我上下其手，就是在不停地抬出名人显要来自提身价。”
Harth and Houraney were simply an ordinary Florida couple thrilled that Trump wanted to partner with them. And that’s when the nightmare began. (Trump strongly denies these improprieties.) Anyone thinking about voting for Trump would do well to listen to Houraney and Harth.
哈思和胡拉尼是佛罗里达州的一对普通伴侣，他们对于特朗普愿意和他们做生意而激动不已。而噩梦就此开始（特朗普强烈否认了自己有过这些不当之举）。那些考虑投票给特朗普的人，应该好好听听胡拉尼和哈思的故事。
They were operating a small Florida company called American Dream Enterprise that ran a “calendar girl” beauty contest, an automobile show, a music competition and other events. They had been together for 13 years and were negotiating with Trump to hold the events in his Atlantic City casinos as a way to bring all of them more revenue.
他们在佛罗里达经营着一家名叫“美国梦之企”(American Dream Enterprise)的小公司，是一个“月份牌女郎”选美大赛、一个车展以及一个音乐比赛等活动的举办方。他们此前已经在一起生活了13年时间，当时在和特朗普谈判，希望能在他的大西洋城赌场里举办这些活动，从而给双方都带来更多收益。
Trump dazzled them with his bold and confident vision of turning their events into huge moneymakers. So, Harth says, she was in a bind familiar to many women: She didn’t want to risk offending a potential partner and benefactor, but neither did she want to be pawed.
特朗普以其大胆自信的愿景描述，把他们的活动俨然变成了能够赚大钱的生意，令这对情侣折服。所以，哈思说道，自己陷入了一种很多女性都不陌生的困境：她不想冒险得罪一个可能的生意伙伴和赞助者，但也不想被人借机揩油。
The first sign of trouble came the day before the evening groping, in an initial business meeting in which, Harth and Houraney say, Trump spent the time asking about the breasts of the beauty contestants — real or enhanced? — and staring at Harth, then 30. At one point he asked Houraney, “Are you sleeping with her?” Houraney explained awkwardly that they were a couple, but Trump was unfazed.
麻烦到来的第一个信号出现在她遭抚摸的那天晚上的前一天，据哈思和胡拉尼说，在一次最初的商业会谈中，特朗普花了不少时间询问那些选美参赛者的胸部情况——真的还是做的？与此同时，他盯着哈思，那时她30岁。他问胡拉尼，“你在睡她吗？”胡拉尼尴尬地解释说，他们是情侣关系，但特朗普一副不为所动的样子。
“You know, there’s going to be a problem,” Trump told Houraney, according to a 1997 sexual harassment lawsuit Harth filed against him. “I’m very attracted to your girlfriend.”
“你知道，这会是个麻烦事，”根据1997年哈思向特朗普提起的性骚扰诉讼中的记录，特朗普这么对胡拉尼说道。“我很喜欢你的女朋友。”
On Jan. 24, 1993, Harth and Houraney went to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida for a contract-signing celebration, bringing along some “calendar girls” at Trump’s request. He offered Harth a tour of the estate and then pulled her into the empty bedroom of his daughter Ivanka.
在1993年1月24日，哈思和胡拉尼来到特朗普位于佛罗里达的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)，参加一个签约庆祝仪式，应特朗普的要求，他们还叫上了一些“月份牌女郎”。他提出带着哈思参观庄园，之后就把她拉进了自己的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)空着的卧室。
“I was admiring the decoration, and next thing I know he’s pushing me against a wall and has his hands all over me,” Harth told me. “He was trying to kiss me. I was freaking out.” Harth says she was desperately protesting, and finally managed to run out of the room and find the group again. She and Houraney left rather than stay the night, as they had intended.
“我正在欣赏房间的装潢，当时只知道他突然把我推到墙上，对我上下其手，”哈思对我说道。“他想亲我。我吓死了。”哈思说她竭力反抗，最后跑出房间，回到其他人中间。当晚，她和胡拉尼没有按原计划留在那里过夜，而是离开了。
Some of the calendar girls stayed, and the sexual harassment lawsuit says Trump showed up uninvited in the predawn hours in the bedroom of one of the young women; she kicked him out but was shaken. When contacted, the woman declined to speak about the experience, and I’m not naming her here.
有些月份牌女郎留了下来，据那件性骚扰诉讼案称，特朗普在黎明前不请自来地出现在其中一名年轻女子的卧室里。她把他撵了出去，但是吓坏了。我联系上了这名女子，但她拒绝谈论那次经历，所以我不在这里提及她的名字。
Trump was then with Marla Maples, who was pregnant that spring with his daughter Tiffany, but this didn’t constrain him. He took an intense interest in the calendar girls, pursuing some and rejecting others, Harth says, adding that he had an aversion to black contestants and made derogatory comments about them.
当时，特朗普和玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)在一起，那年春天，她怀上了他们的女儿蒂法妮(Tiffany)，但他并没有因此而收敛。哈思称，他对那些月份牌女郎产生了强烈兴趣，对其中一些人发起了攻势，也回绝了其中一些人的投怀送抱。哈思还说，他讨厌黑人参赛者，说她们的坏话。
That year, Harth continued to meet Trump for business — and, she says, he continued to try to jump her. “He’d say, ‘Let’s go in my room, I want to lie down,’ and he’d pull me along. I’d say, ‘I don’t want to lie down,’ and it would turn into a wrestling match. … I remember yelling, ‘I didn’t come here for this.’ He’d say, ‘Just calm down.’”
那一年，哈思为了生意继续与特朗普会面。她说，他仍然试图与她发生性关系。“他会说，‘我们去我的房间吧，我想躺下，’他拽着我不放。我会说，‘我不想躺下’，然后就变成了摔跤比赛……我记得自己大喊，‘我不是来这儿搞这个的。’他会说，‘冷静点。’”
Harth says that she worried about being raped by a man who weighed twice as much as she did, and at one point she vomited as a defense mechanism. But she says that he was never violent and genuinely seemed to assume sexual interest on her part; often he was playful as she was frightened: “His mind was in a totally different place than mine,” Harth recalls. “He thinks he’s God’s gift to women.”
哈思说，对方的体重是自己的两倍，她担心会被强奸，有一次她防卫到呕吐。不过她说，他从来不是很暴力，似乎真的认为她对他也有“性”趣，经常是她已经很害怕了，他还在玩闹。“他的想法跟我的完全不在一个频道上，”哈思回忆说，“他认为自己是上帝送给女人们的礼物。”
Harth said in her deposition that all this was “very traumatic,” but she remained cordial because she feared that showing anger would destroy the business relationship and her ambitions of getting ahead. For the same reason, she told me, she did not go to the police to report sexual assault.
哈思在证词中称，所有这些“让她受到很大创伤”，不过她依然保持友好，因为担心表现出愤怒会毁掉他们在生意上的合作，以及自己获得成功的雄心。她对我说，因为同样的原因，她也没有向警察报告性骚扰。
This was also a different time, when it was perhaps more accepted for powerful men to prey on young women, when women felt less able to protest. In fairness to Trump, other senior men in politics and business — John Kennedy and Bill Clinton come to mind — also sometimes showed a sense of entitlement toward young women.
当时的大环境和现在也不同，那时人们似乎更能接受有权势的男人勾引享用年轻女子，而当时的女性也更觉得无力反抗。为特朗普说句公道话，其他位高权重的政界和商界人物，比如约翰·肯尼迪(John Kennedy)和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)，有时也对年轻女子表现出一种理所当然的占有意识。
In the end, Houraney and Harth used a Trump casino to hold an event that Trump praised in a letter to them. But in 1994, Trump walked away from the relationship and refused to pay what he owed, they say.
最后，胡拉尼和哈思用特朗普的一个赌场举办了一场活动，特朗普曾在给他们的一封信中称赞了这场活动。不过他们说，1994年，特朗普终止了他们的业务关系，并拒绝支付欠款。
Houraney, who owned the events planning company, sued Trump for breach of contract, and the two sides eventually reached a confidential settlement. Harth says Trump paid somewhat more than $100,000. Harth separately had filed her sexual harassment suit, which also alleged attempted rape; she withdrew her suit as a condition for settling the contract dispute, she says.
胡拉尼是这家活动策划公司的所有者，他起诉特朗普违反合约，双方最后达成保密和解。哈思称，特朗普支付了十几万美元。哈思单独提起性骚扰诉讼，还指控特朗普强奸未遂。她说，作为达成合同纠纷和解的一个先决条件，她撤回了自己的起诉。
After the settlement, Houraney and Harth say, Trump reached out to them, inviting them to a party and coming across as so charming that they wondered if he had been transformed. Not long after this, Houraney and Harth, who had married in 1995, had a bitter falling out and divorce.
胡拉尼和哈思说，和解之后，特朗普主动联系他们，邀请他们参加一个派对，给人留下非常迷人的印象，以至于他们猜想他是否改造一新。不久之后，胡拉尼和哈思——他们已于1995年结婚——关系破裂并经历了痛苦的离婚。
Houraney and Harth haven’t spoken in years, but they offered almost identical accounts when I interviewed them separately, and their stories match Harth’s deposition and her sexual harassment lawsuit from the time.
胡拉尼和哈思多年没有说过话，不过在我分头采访时，他们给出了几乎完全一样的陈述，他们的说法与哈思的证词以及当时她提起的性骚扰诉讼一致。
During the divorce proceedings, Harth fell into a deep depression, compounded by the death of her brother and the loss of her job at Houraney’s company. At this point Trump began calling her, consoling her on the divorce and offering her a plane ticket to visit him in New York. She was wary but also flattered and practical enough to wonder if he might help her find employment. So in 1998 she began dating him.
在离婚诉讼过程中，哈思的哥哥（或弟弟）去世，又失去在胡拉尼的公司的工作，这令她陷入极度抑郁。就在这段时间，特朗普开始给她打电话，就离婚的事安慰她，给她买机票让她来纽约看他。她很谨慎，但也感到荣幸，并且很实际地期望他能帮她找一份工作。所以，1998年，她开始与他约会。
I asked her: Why would a woman who accused Trump of attempted rape ever go out with him?
我问她：为什么一个指控特朗普强奸未遂的女人会和他约会？
“I was scared, thinking, ‘what am I going to do now?’” she says. “When he called me and tried to work on me again, I was thinking maybe I should give this a try, maybe if he’s still working on me, I should give this rich guy a chance.”
“当时我很害怕，心想，‘现在我该怎么办？’”她说，“他给我打电话，试图再次追求我时，我想也许我应该试一试，也许如果他仍想追求我，我应该给这个有钱人一个机会。”
They dated for several months in 1998, when he was separated from Maples, she says. In the end, he was a disappointing boyfriend, always watching television and rarely offering emotional support, she says.
她说，1998年，特朗普和梅普尔斯分居时，他们约会了几个月。她说，结果发现，他是个令人失望的男友，总是在看电视，很少给她提供情感上的支持。
“It was a hard divorce, and I was in a nonstop crying jag,” she recalls. “You know what he was thinking? He wanted me to get a boob job. He made an appointment for me to get a boob job, a doctor in Miami.”
“我的离婚过程很痛苦，有段时间我不停地哭，”她回忆道。“可是你知道他在想什么吗？他想让我隆胸。他给我预约了迈阿密的一名医生，让我去隆胸。”
Harth says that she left him, finally fed up, and that soon afterward he took up with Melania, his current wife.
哈思说，最后自己受够了，离开了他，不久之后，他和梅拉尼娅(Melania)——也就是他的现任妻子——开始交往。
Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, responded after this article was published online: “Mr. Trump denies each and every statement made by Ms. Harth.” Indeed, Trump has long offered a version of events that is very different.
本文在网上发表后，特朗普竞选团队的女发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)回应说：“特朗普先生否认哈思女士做出的所有陈述。”的确，特朗普很久以前就这些事情给出了一个截然不同的说法。
In 1996, after Harth alleged sexual harassment, The National Enquirer quoted Trump as having told a close friend: “The truth is that Jill Harth is obsessed with me — and would do everything she could to get into my pants.”
1996年，哈思指控特朗普性骚扰后，《国家询问报》(The National Enquirer)称，特朗普曾对一位密友说：“实际上，吉尔·哈思痴迷于我，想尽办法想跟我上床。”
In April of this year, Trump told The Boston Globe that Harth and Houraney had alleged sexual harassment only because their breach-of-contract lawsuit was going nowhere, and he denied as “total nonsense” the idea that he had slipped into the bed of the young woman at Mar-a-Lago. Trump also denied that he had rejected black contestants.
今年4月，特朗普对《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)说，哈思和胡拉尼提起性骚扰诉讼只是因为他们的违约诉讼毫无希望，他将他在马阿拉歌庄园溜进那名年轻女子房间的指控斥为“一派胡言”。特朗普还否认了他拒绝黑人选美参赛者的说法。
The Trump campaign also released emails from last fall and winter in which Harth, who is now a makeup artist in New York, sends warm wishes and pleads for jobs doing his hair and makeup. “I am definitely Team Trump,” she emailed the campaign a year ago, and at a Trump event in January she was ushered backstage to see him.
特朗普竞选团队也公布了去年秋天和冬天哈思写来的一些电子邮件。哈思现在是纽约的一名化妆师，她在邮件中送上温暖的祝福，并恳请得到给他做头发和化妆的工作。“我无疑属于特朗普团队，”一年前她在给该团队的邮件中写道。在今年1月特朗普的一次活动中，她被带到后台与他见面。
I asked her: If he traumatized and cheated you, why email his aides and meet him?
我问她：如果他伤害了你，欺骗了你，你为什么还要给他的助手们写邮件、和他见面呢？
“I thought I was making nice, maybe they’d call me for makeup, maybe I could get some kind of work out of the dude,” Harth told me. “But it was not well thought out. It came back to bite me, and I look like a fool.”
“当时我觉得自己是在表示友好，觉得他们也许会让我去化妆，也许我能从那个男人那里得到工作机会，”哈思对我说道。“但是我没想清楚。弄得适得其反，自己像个傻子。”
Talking to Harth and Houraney, and reviewing the lawsuits and depositions from the time, convinced me that they’re telling the truth. It helps that many others have testified about Trump behavior that matches elements of the story — the stiffing of business partners, the sexual predation — and that he himself has promoted his own boorishness.
在与哈思和胡拉尼交谈后，看完当时的诉讼和证词，我确信，他们说的是事实。而且，其他很多人对特朗普行为的证词也与这个故事的要素相吻合——商业伙伴失败、性掠夺——他本人也爱宣扬自己的放荡不羁。
“He’s all about him,” Harth says, summing up what she learned about the man who may be our next president. “He’s a con artist.”
“他只关心自己，”哈思在总结自己对这位可能成为我们下一任总统的男人的看法时说道。“他是个骗子。”