The big story everyone is chasing is whether President Trump is a Russian stooge. Wrong. That’s all a smoke screen. Trump is actually a Chinese agent. He is clearly out to make China great again. Just look at the facts.
时下街谈巷议的大新闻莫过于特朗普总统是不是俄罗斯的傀儡。错。这根本就是烟幕弹。特朗普其实是中国的代理人。他显然以恢复中国的伟大荣光为己任。且看如下事实。
Trump took office promising to fix our trade imbalance with China, and what’s the first thing he did? He threw away a U.S.-designed free-trade deal with 11 other Pacific nations — a pact whose members make up 40 percent of global G.D.P.
特朗普上台时承诺，要修正和中国的贸易失衡，那他做的第一件事是什么？他抛弃了一项由美国设计的与其他11个环太平洋国家的自由贸易协定——其成员国的GDP之和占全球GDP总量的40%。
The Trans-Pacific Partnership was based largely on U.S. economic interests, benefiting our fastest-growing technologies and agribusinesses, and had more labor, environmental and human rights standards than any trade agreement ever. And it excluded China. It was our baby, shaping the future of trade in Asia.
跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）主要是基于美国的经济利益，对我们快速发展的科技和农业企业大有裨益，还含有比以往任何贸易协议都多的劳工、环境和人权标准。此外，它把中国排除在外。它是我们的孩子，本可以塑造亚洲未来的贸易图景。
Imagine if Trump were negotiating with China now as not only the U.S. president but also as head of a 12-nation trading bloc based on our values and interests. That’s called l-e-v-e-r-a-g-e, and Trump just threw it away … because he promised to in the campaign — without, I’d bet, ever reading TPP. What a chump! I can still hear the clinking of champagne glasses in Beijing.
想象一下，如果特朗普正跟中国谈判，不仅以美国总统的身份，而且作为一个基于我们的价值观和利益的12国贸易区的掌门人，会是什么情形。这可是人们常说的筹码啊，特朗普就这么把它给抛弃了……因为他在竞选时承诺要抛弃它——我敢打赌，他都没读过TPP的内容就做出了承诺。真够笨的！我都能听到从北京传来的碰杯声。
Now more Asian nations are falling in line with China’s regional trading association — the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership — which has no serious environmental, intellectual property, human trafficking or labor standards like TPP. A Peterson Institute study said TPP would “increase annual real incomes in the United States by $131 billion” by 2030, without changing total U.S. employment levels. Goodbye to that.
眼下，更多亚洲国家正在加入中国的区域性贸易俱乐部——区域全面经济伙伴关系协定(Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership)——它没有像TPP那么严格的环境、知识产权、反人口贩卖或劳工标准。彼得森研究所(Peterson Institute)的一项研究显示，到2030年，在总体就业水平不变的情况下，TPP每年可为美国的真实收入带来1310亿美元的增量。这些都打水漂了。
But Trump took his Make China Great campaign to a new level on Tuesday by rejecting the science on climate change and tossing out all Obama-era plans to shrink our dependence on coal-fired power. Trump also wants to weaken existing mileage requirements for U.S.-made vehicles. Stupid.
但周二，特朗普恢复中国伟大荣光的事业又上了一个新台阶，他拒绝接受气候变化方面的科学证据，抛弃了奥巴马时代旨在减少依赖燃煤发电的所有规划。特朗普还想要弱化针对美国造车辆的现有燃油里程要求。蠢啊。
O.K., Mr. President, let’s assume for a second that climate change is a hoax. Do you believe in math? There are now 7.5 billion people on the planet, and there will be 8.5 billion by 2030, according to the United Nations population bureau — and most will want to drive like us, eat protein like us and live in houses like us. And if they do, we’ll eat up, burn up, smoke up and choke up the planet — and devour our fisheries, coral reefs, rivers and forests — at a pace we’ve never seen before. Major cities in India already can’t breathe; wait for when there are another billion people.
好吧，总统先生，让我们暂且假设气候变化是一个骗局。但你相信数学吗？根据联合国人口司的数据，地球上现在有75亿人口，到2030年将达到85亿——而且大多数人都想像我们这样开车，像我们这样吃蛋白质，像我们这样住大房子。如果他们真的如此行事，那我们就会以前所未有的速度把地球吃光、烧光，让我们窒息在烟雾中——摧毁我们的渔场、珊瑚礁、河流和森林。印度大城市里的人已经无法呼吸了；世界正在等待另外10亿人口的到来。
That means that clean power, clean water, clean air, clean transportation and energy-efficient buildings will have to be the next great global industry, whether or not there is climate change. The demand will be huge.
这意味着不论气候是否变化，清洁电力、清洁的水、清洁的空气、清洁运输以及节能建筑都必将成为下一个在全世界备受追捧的行当。需求将是巨大的。
So what is China doing? Its new five-year plan is a rush to electric cars, batteries, nuclear, wind, solar and energy efficiency — and a cap-and-trade system for carbon. Trump’s plan? More coal and oil. Hello? How can America be great if we don’t dominate the next great global industry — clean power?
那么中国在干什么？最新的五年规划在加紧推动电动汽车、电池、核能、风能、太阳能和能源效率——以及一个碳排放总量限制和交易系统。特朗普的计划呢？更多的煤和石油。什么？如果不能主导下一个闪耀全球的行当——清洁电力，我们如何才能恢复美利坚的伟大荣光？
The U.S. state leading in clean energy innovations is California, which also has the highest vehicle emissions standards and the strictest building efficiency codes. Result: California alone has far more advanced energy jobs than there are coal miners in America, and the pay is better and the work is healthier. In January 2016, CNNMoney reported that nationally the U.S. “solar industry work force is bigger than that of oil and gas construction, and nearly three times the size of the entire coal mining work force.”
在美国，引领清洁能源创新潮流的州是加利福尼亚，它同时也是车辆排放标准最高、建筑节能法规最严格的州。结果：单是加利福尼亚的高级能源工作岗位，就比美国所有煤矿提供的工作岗位多得多，而且其薪资水平更高，工作环境也更健康。CNN财经(CNNMoney)于2016年1月报道说，在全美范围内，“太阳能产业的劳动力规模，比石油和天然气建设公司的还大，几乎是采煤业劳动力规模的三倍。”
“More than half the electric vehicles sold in the U.S. are sold in California,” said Hal Harvey, C.E.O. of Energy Innovation. “If there are two jurisdictions hellbent on transformation, it is China and California. There have been 200 million E.V.s sold in China already. They’re called electric bicycles, which cost about $400 — quiet, not contributing to congestion or pollution, and affordable.”
“加利福尼亚的电动车销量，占到全美电动车销量的一半以上，”能源创新(Hal Harvey)首席执行官哈尔·哈维(Hal Harvey)表示。“如果说有两个地方正以破釜沉舟之势进行转型，那便是中国和加利福尼亚。在中国已经售出了两亿辆电动车。它们被称为电动自行车，每辆售价约400美元——噪音小，不会造成拥堵或污染，人们也负担得起。”
China is loving this: It’s doubling down on clean energy — because it has to and it wants to leapfrog us on technology — and we’re doubling down on coal, squandering our lead in technology.
中国喜欢这种局面：它正大力发展新能源——因为它必须如此，而且想在技术上超越我们——而我们正大力发展煤炭行业，浪费我们在技术上的领导地位。
It was bitterly ironic that on the same day that President Trump took America on a great leap backward to coal, The Wall Street Journal reported that “Tencent Holdings Ltd. bought a 5% stake in Tesla Inc., giving the backing of China’s most valuable company to the Silicon Valley electric-vehicle maker as it prepares to launch its first car aimed at the mass market. … Having a powerful friend in China could help Tesla as it eyes further global expansion. Big Chinese tech companies have backed a wave of green-car start-ups in the country recently.”
极具讽刺意味的是，特朗普总统带领美国后退一大步、押注于煤炭产业的同一天，《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)报道说，“腾讯控股买入特斯拉(Tesla In)5%的股份，中国最具价值的企业，向这家正在准备推出首款大众市场车型的硅谷电动车生产商提供了支持……当特斯拉着眼于继续推进全球性扩张的时候，在中国有一个强大的盟友将有所帮助。近来，中国的一些科技业巨擘在本国投资了一批绿色汽车初创企业。”
If you liked buying your oil from Saudi Arabia, you’ll love buying your electric cars, solar panels, efficiency software and batteries from China.
如果说你以前喜欢从沙特阿拉伯买石油，那么你将来会喜欢从中国买电动汽车、太阳能面板、效能软件和电池。
Finally, Trump wants to slash the State Department and foreign aid budgets and make it harder for people to immigrate to America, particularly Muslims. This opens the way for China to expand its influence across the developing world and signals the smartest math and science students in the world to start their start-ups overseas and not in America.
最后，特朗普想要大幅削减国务院经费和对外援助预算，并让外国人，尤其是穆斯林，越来越难以移民美国。这会给中国在发展中国家中间拓展影响力打开方便之门，还预示着一些最聪明的理工科学生会在海外而非美国创办初创公司。
NBC News reported last week that applications from foreign students, notably from China, India and the Middle East, “are down this year at nearly 40 percent of schools that answered a recent survey by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.”
NBC新闻(NBC News)上周报道称，“美国大学注册招生办公室协会(American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers)近日开展的一项调查显示，被调查学校的”国际学生申请人数下降了40%左右，其中来自中国、印度和中东的申请量降幅最为突出。
So you tell me that Trump is not a Chinese agent. The only other explanation is that he’s ignorant and unread — that he’s never studied the issues or connected the dots between them — so Big Coal and Big Oil easily manipulated him into being their chump, who just tweeted out their talking points to win votes here and there — without any thought to grand strategy. Surely that couldn’t be true?
因此你能说特朗普不是中国的代理人吗？除此之外就只有一个解释了：他很无知，是一个不学无术的人——他从未研究过这些问题或者把它们联系起来——因此大煤炭商和大石油商能够轻而易举地把他当成傻瓜来操控，而他只知道在Twiter上重复他们的言论，四处拉选票——对大的战略没有任何想法。但那肯定不是真的吧？