WASHINGTON — President Obama said on Saturday that the death of Fidel Castro was an occasion for Americans to “extend a hand of friendship to the Cuban people” and acknowledge the “powerful emotions” the revolutionary leader had evoked in both countries, seeking to use Mr. Castro’s fraught legacy to underscore his own efforts to bury decades of bitterness between the United States and Cuba.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周六表示，菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)之死是美国人民“向古巴人民伸出友谊之手”的机会，他承认这位革命领导人在两个国家中引发了“剧烈的情绪”，并试图使用卡斯特罗令人担忧的政治遗产来强调自己化解两国数十年不睦关系的努力。
“History will record and judge the enormous impact of this singular figure on the people and world around him,” Mr. Obama said in a statement that neither criticized nor praised Mr. Castro. “The Cuban people,” he added, “must know that they have a friend and partner in the United States of America.”
在一份声明中，奥巴马既没有批评也没有赞扬卡斯特罗，而是说：“历史将记录和评价这个人物给古巴人民和世界带来的巨大影响。”他还表示，“古巴人民一定知道，在美国他们有一位朋友和伙伴。”
The death of Mr. Castro, the embodiment of decades of suspicion and enmity between the two countries, has the potential to hasten Mr. Obama’s goal of cementing the historic rapprochement that he hopes will be a signature part of his legacy.
卡斯特罗是两国之间数十年怀疑和敌意的化身，他的过世有可能加快奥巴马巩固两国历史性和解的目标，奥巴马希望这会成为自己具有代表性的政治遗产。
But with Donald J. Trump, who has been critical of the détente, set to succeed Mr. Obama, the fate of the thaw between the United States and Cuba is far from clear. Mr. Trump’s initial response on the matter Saturday morning was a four-word post on Twitter. “Fidel Castro is dead!” he wrote.
但是，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)对这种改善进行了批评，他接替奥巴马之后，美国和古巴之间解冻的关系会有怎样的前景远不明朗。特朗普在周六上午对此事的初步回应是在Twitter上发的几个字。“菲德尔·卡斯特罗死了！”他写道。
A few hours later, in a statement issued by his transition team, Mr. Trump called Mr. Castro a “brutal dictator” who had oppressed his own people for decades and left a legacy of “firing squads, theft, unimaginable suffering, poverty and the denial of fundamental human rights.”
几个小时后，在其过渡团队发表的声明中，特朗普称卡斯特罗是一个“残暴的独裁者”，压迫了该国人民数十年之久，留下的政治遗产是“行刑队、盗窃、难以想像的痛苦、贫穷和基本人权的剥夺”。
“While Cuba remains a totalitarian island, it is my hope that today marks a move away from the horrors endured for too long, and toward a future in which the wonderful Cuban people finally live in the freedom they so richly deserve,” Mr. Trump said. “Though the tragedies, deaths and pain caused by Fidel Castro cannot be erased, our administration will do all it can to ensure the Cuban people can finally begin their journey toward prosperity and liberty.”
“古巴仍然是一个极权主义的孤岛，我希望今天标志着坚韧的古巴人民不必再忍受长期以来遭受的恐怖，走向美好未来，生活在他们早就应得的自由之中，”特朗普说道。“虽然菲德尔·卡斯特罗造成的悲剧、死亡和痛苦不能消除，但我国政府将尽一切努力确保古巴人民能够开始他们的繁荣和自由之路。”
The statements from the president and the president-elect were remarkable both for their differences and their similarities. While Mr. Obama steered clear of disparaging Mr. Castro, in keeping with his efforts to essentially defang a long-nursed mutual grudge, Mr. Trump condemned him. But both also described Mr. Castro’s death as a potential turning point for Cuba, and both appeared to accept as fact that its prospects for freedom and prosperity are bound up with that of the United States.
从声明来看，总统和候任总统之间的分歧和相似之处都很明显。奥巴马为了缓解两国不睦关系的长期努力着想，没有抨击卡斯特罗，而特朗普谴责了他。但两人也都将卡斯特罗之死描述为古巴的一个潜在转折点，并且似乎都接受了这样一个事实，即古巴未来的自由和繁荣与美国的前景是紧密相连的。
During the campaign, Mr. Trump sent mixed signals about how he intended to approach American policy toward Cuba, even as Mr. Obama was using the final months of his presidency to try to codify as much of the opening as possible.
在竞选期间，特朗普对于古巴政策的打算发出了前后不一的信号，当时奥巴马正在利用自己在白宫的最后几个月时间来尽可能巩固两国关系的缓解。
While Mr. Trump said during the Republican primary race that restoring diplomatic relations with Cuba — a step the Obama administration took last summer — was “fine,” he called Mr. Obama’s December 2014 agreement with President Raúl Castro of Cuba, Mr. Castro’s younger brother, a “very weak agreement” that provided too many “concessions” to the Cubans.
虽然特朗普在共和党初选期间表示，奥巴马政府去年夏天开始与古巴恢复外交关系是“好的”，但又说奥巴马在2014年12月与卡斯特罗的弟弟、古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)签署的协议“很不利”，向古巴人做了太多“让步”。
“All of the concessions Barack Obama has granted the Castro regime were done through executive order, which means the next president can reverse them, and that I will do unless the Castro regime meets our demands,” Mr. Trump said at a campaign event in Miami in September. “Not my demands. Our demands.”
特朗普9月在迈阿密的一次竞选集会上说：“巴拉克·奥巴马对卡斯特罗政权做出的所有让步都是通过行政命令来进行的，这意味着下一任总统可以逆转。卡斯特罗政权如果不满足我们的要求，我就会扭转它们。这不是我的要求，而是我们的要求。”
Mr. Trump announced last week that he had named Mauricio Claver-Carone, a fierce critic of Mr. Obama’s opening with Cuba who leads a pro-embargo political action committee, to his transition team for the Treasury Department. The move was seen as a signal that Mr. Trump is considering unraveling the web of regulations Mr. Obama has put in place to ease trade and commercial restrictions against Cuba.
特朗普上周宣布任命毛里西奥·克拉韦尔-卡罗内(Mauricio Claver-Carone)为过渡团队中的财政部成员，此人领导着一个支持禁运的政治行动委员，强烈反对奥巴马缓解两国关系。该任命被看作是一个信号，暗示特朗普正在考虑撤销奥巴马为了试图缓解古巴贸易和商业限制而制定的规则。
Last month, Mr. Obama issued a sweeping directive setting forth a new United States policy to lift the Cold War trade embargo entirely — a move that would require congressional approval — and end a half-century of clandestine plotting against Cuba’s government. And he announced that his administration was lifting perhaps the most symbolically potent aspect of trade restrictions, the $100 limit on bringing Cuban rum and cigars into the United States. Earlier, Mr. Obama had also resumed direct flights between the two countries.
上个月，奥巴马签发了一项综合政令，提出了一项新的国策，以便完全取消冷战期间开始的贸易禁运——这需要获得国会的批准，它将结束美国对古巴政府半个世纪以来的密谋破坏。奥巴马宣布，他的政府要解除入境美国的古巴朗姆酒和雪茄价值不超过100美元的限制，这或许是贸易限制中最具象征意义的一条。此前，奥巴马还恢复了两国之间的直航。
“During my presidency, we have worked hard to put the past behind us, pursuing a future in which the relationship between our two countries is defined not by our differences but by the many things that we share as neighbors and friends — bonds of family, culture, commerce and common humanity,” Mr. Obama said in his statement.
“在我的总统任期内，我们努力将过往抛在身后，谋求一个由我们作为邻居和朋友的共同点——比如家族团结、文化、商业和共同的人性——而非分歧来定义的未来，”奥巴马在声明中说。
Advocates of the opening argued that Mr. Castro’s death could be a pivot point, clearing away the last emotionally charged remnants of a policy that has outlived its usefulness.
支持两国缓和关系的人认为，卡斯特罗之死可能是一个轴心点，将斩断一套过时政策最后的情感残余。
“Symbolically, it makes a difference,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, the sponsor of bipartisan legislation to lift the embargo. “A lot of this policy for decades has not been based on sound reason. It has been based on the ghosts of the past. This could mark a major change. I don’t think it’s going to happen immediately, but symbolism is important in this relationship.”
明尼苏达州民主党参议员艾米·科罗布查尔(Amy Klobuchar)支持两党对解除禁运进行立法，她说，“从象征意义上说，这会产生作用。几十年来，这种政策不是基于完善的理由，而是基于过往。这可能标志着一个重大变化。我不认为变化会立即发生，但在这种关系中，象征意义很重要。”
But among Republicans, such a shift was not immediately apparent. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said that if anything, Mr. Castro’s death should stiffen the resolve of those determined to oppose the Cuban government.
但在一些共和党人看来，这种转变不会立刻显现。佛罗里达州参议员马可·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)说，卡斯特罗之死如果说有什么影响，就是应该让那些反对古巴政府的人进一步坚定决心。
“The dictator has died, but dictatorship has not,” said Mr. Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants. “The future of Cuba ultimately remains in the hands of the Cuban people, and now more than ever Congress and the new administration must stand with them against their brutal rulers and support their struggle for freedom and basic human rights.”
卢比奥是古巴移民的儿子，他说：“独裁者死了，但独裁并没有。古巴的未来最终掌握在古巴人民手中，国会和新政府必须比以往任何时候更加坚定地与他们一起反对残暴的统治者，支持他们为自由和基本人权而战。”
Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican and the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, said, “Sadly, Raúl Castro is no better for Cubans who yearn for freedom.”
加利福尼亚州共和党众议员、外交事务委员会主席埃德·罗伊斯(Ed Royce)说：“可悲的是，对于那些追求自由的古巴人来说，劳尔·卡斯特罗并不见得更好。”