WASHINGTON — FBI Director James B. Comey asked the Justice Department this weekend to publicly reject President Donald Trump’s assertion that President Barack Obama ordered the tapping of Trump’s phones, senior U.S. officials said Sunday. Comey has argued that the highly charged claim is false and must be corrected, they said, but the department has not released any such statement.
华盛顿——数名美国高层官员周日表示，联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)上周末要求司法部公开驳斥唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统有关贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统曾下令窃听特朗普电话的断言。他们表示，科米称这个极为敏感的说法是假的，必须予以纠正，但司法部尚未发布过任何此类声明。
Comey, who made the request Saturday after Trump leveled his allegation on Twitter, has been working to get the Justice Department to knock down the claim because it falsely insinuates that the FBI broke the law, the officials said.
科米是在特朗普于周六在Twitter上发出这一指控后提出上述要求的。这些官员表示，他一直在竭力要求司法部否定这一说法，因为它错误地暗示FBI违反了法律。
A spokesman for the FBI declined to comment. Sarah Isgur Flores, spokeswoman for the Justice Department, also declined to comment.
FBI的一名发言人拒绝就此置评。司法部发言人莎拉·伊斯格尔·弗洛雷斯(Sarah Isgur Flores)也拒绝置评。
Comey’s request is a remarkable rebuke of a sitting president, putting the nation’s top law enforcement official in the position of questioning Trump’s truthfulness. The confrontation between the two is the most serious consequence of Trump’s weekend Twitter outburst, and it underscores the dangers of what the president and his aides have unleashed by accusing the former president of a conspiracy to undermine Trump’s administration.
科米的要求是对一位现任总统不同寻常的指责，它将这个国家的最高执法官员放在了质疑特朗普诚信的位置上。两人之间的冲突是特朗普周末在Twitter上的爆发带来的最严重后果，它突显了总统及其助手指责前任总统阴谋破坏特朗普的政府会引发什么样的危险。
The White House showed no indication that it would back down from Trump’s claims. On Sunday, the president demanded a congressional inquiry into whether Obama had abused the power of federal law enforcement agencies before the 2016 presidential election. In a statement from his spokesman, Trump called “reports” about the wiretapping “very troubling” and said that Congress should examine them as part of its investigations into Russia’s meddling in the election.
白宫没有表现出放弃特朗普上述说法的迹象。周日，这位总统要求国会调查奥巴马是否在2016年大选前滥用了联邦执法机构的权力。在他的发言人发布的一项声明中，特朗普称有关窃听电话的“报道让人非常不安”，还表示国会应该将它作为其对俄罗斯干涉大选调查的一部分。
Along with concerns about the potential attacks on the bureau’s credibility, senior FBI officials are said to be worried that the notion of a court-approved wiretap will raise the public’s expectations that federal authorities have significant evidence implicating the Trump campaign in colluding with Russia’s efforts to disrupt the presidential election.
据称，除了对FBI的名誉造成潜在影响的担忧，该机构高层官员还担心，有关法院批准电话窃听的看法会引发公众的期待，让他们觉得联邦当局掌握了重要的证据，可以证明特朗普的竞选团队与俄罗斯进行勾结以破坏美国大选。
One problem Comey has faced is that there are few senior politically appointed officials at the Justice Department who can make the decision to release a statement, the officials said. Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself Thursday from all matters related to the federal investigation into connections between Trump, his associates and Russia.
这些官员表示，科米面临的一个问题是，司法部获得政治任命的高层官员几乎没人能做出发布声明的决定。司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)上周四已主动要求回避就特朗普及其副手与俄罗斯的联系所展开的联邦调查。
Comey’s behind-the-scenes maneuvering is certain to invite contrasts to his actions last year, when he spoke publicly about the Hillary Clinton email case and disregarded Justice Department entreaties not to.
科米的幕后行动肯定会让人注意到这与他去年的做法形成对比，当时他不顾司法部的请求，公开希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的邮件案件。
It is not clear why Comey did not issue the statement himself. He is the most senior law enforcement official who was kept on the job as the Obama administration gave way to the Trump administration. And while the Justice Department applies for intelligence-gathering warrants, the FBI keeps its own set of records and is in position to know whether Trump’s claims are true. While intelligence officials do not normally discuss the existence or nonexistence of surveillance warrants, no law prevents Comey from issuing the statement.
目前还不清楚科米为什么不自己发布这项声明。他是奥巴马政府给特朗普政府让位后继续留任的官员中职位最高的执法官员。尽管司法部也申请情报收集许可证，但FBI有自己的记录，应该知道特朗普的声明是真是假。尽管情报官员通常不会谈论是否有监视许可证，但没什么法律规章限制科米发布这种声明。
In his demand for a congressional inquiry, the president, through his press secretary, Sean Spicer, issued a statement Sunday that said, “President Donald J. Trump is requesting that as part of their investigation into Russian activity, the congressional intelligence committees exercise their oversight authority to determine whether executive branch investigative powers were abused in 2016.”
总统通过自己的新闻发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)在周日发布了一项声明，要求国会就此展开调查。声明表示，“唐纳德·J·特朗普总统要求，作为对俄罗斯行动调查的一部分，国会情报委员会行使自身的监督权力，查明2016年是否存在行政部门调查权力遭到滥用的问题。”
Spicer, who repeated the entire statement in a series of Twitter messages, added that “neither the White House nor the president will comment further until such oversight is conducted.”
斯派塞通过一系列推文转述了整份声明，还表示“在这样的监管行动展开之前，白宫和总统都不会再做进一步的置评”。
A spokesman for Obama and his former aides have called the accusation by Trump completely false, saying that Obama never ordered any wiretapping of a U.S. citizen.
奥巴马的发言人及其前任助手都称特朗普的指控是无稽之谈，并表示奥巴马从来不曾下令对一名美国公民进行窃听。
“A cardinal rule of the Obama administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice,” Kevin Lewis, Obama’s spokesman, said in a statement Saturday.
“奥巴马政府的一项基本原则是白宫官员不得干涉司法部进行的任何一项独立调查，”奥巴马的发言人凯文·刘易斯(Kevin Lewis)在周六发布的一项声明中表示。
Trump’s demand for a congressional investigation appears to be based, at least in part, on unproven claims by Breitbart News and conservative talk radio hosts that secret warrants were issued authorizing the tapping of the phones of Trump and his aides at Trump Tower in New York.
特朗普要求国会进行调查的要求似乎是基于——至少部分如此——布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)和保守派电台听众热线节目上一些未经证实的说法，它们称政府发布秘密许可，授权对特朗普及其助手在纽约特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的通话进行监听。
In a series of Twitter messages Saturday, the president seemed to be convinced that those claims were true. In one post, Trump said, “I’d bet a good lawyer could make a great case out of the fact that President Obama was tapping my phones in October, just prior to Election!”
在周六发布的推文中，这位总统似乎已经确信那些说法是真的。特朗普在其中一条推文表示，“我打赌一名好律师能把奥巴马去年10月大选之前监听我电话的事办成个大案子！”
On Sunday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, deputy White House press secretary, said the president was determined to find out what had really happened, calling it potentially the “greatest abuse of power” that the country has ever seen.
周六，白宫副发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)表示，总统决心查明究竟发生了什么，称它有可能是这个国家有史以来“最严重的权力滥用”。