The Manhattan White House of Donald J. Trump is in the center of one of the busiest and richest urban corridors in the world, close to major corporate and bank headquarters and expensive high-rises. The protection of Mr. Trump during visits to Trump Tower presents challenges unlike those of any previous president.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的曼哈顿“白宫”地处全球最繁忙、最富有的都市走廊中心之一，靠近大公司、银行总部以及高端大厦。保护特朗普进出该大厦的挑战不同于保护之前的历任总统。
Mr. Trump lives in the three top floors of Trump Tower at Fifth Avenue and 56th Street, atop 38 floors of residences, 13 stories of commercial offices and seven floors of public retail space, all planted in a teeming office, residential and shopping district three blocks from Central Park.
特朗普住在特朗普大厦最上面的三个楼层。该大厦位于第五大道和第56街，最上面的38层是住宅，还有13层的商业办公空间，以及7层公共零售空间，它所在的办公、住宅和购物区与中央公园相隔三个街区。
In addition to whatever fortifications and personnel the Secret Service deploys but doesn’t talk about, the city has assigned 50 additional traffic agents and police officers to manage flow, and has posted surveillance officers on elevated platforms and rooftops. Bomb-sniffing dogs and plainclothes police officers patrol the vicinity, and heavy-weapons teams are nearby, according to the police chief of department, Carlos M. Gomez.
除了特勤局(Secret Service)暗中布置的设防和人员外，该市还安排了50名交警和警察来管理交通，并在高架平台和屋顶上布置了监视人员。纽约警察局局长卡洛斯·M·戈麦斯(Carlos M. Gomez)说，嗅弹犬和便衣警察在周围巡逻，附近还安排了配有重型装备的警察。
A glimpse of what New Yorkers will see as the transition continues:
纽约人将在过渡期间看到下面的场景：
The president-elect and residents of Trump Tower’s 263 apartments enter on 56th Street, and the sidewalk along the north side of 56th Street is closed from Fifth Avenue to Madison Avenue. The street itself is blocked at either end, with high-speed crash barriers that can be opened for delivery vehicles.
特朗普和楼里的住户从第56街进入特朗普大厦的263套公寓，第56街北侧的人行道，从第五大道到麦迪逊大道都将被封闭。第56街本身的两端也会用高速碰撞障碍物堵住，它可以打开，让运输车辆通过。
A second level of security applies to the sidewalks on the south side of 56th Street and the east side of Fifth Avenue, where as many as 25,000 pedestrians walk during rush hours. Bags are searched at checkpoints on the corners.
第二级安全措施适用于第56街南侧的人行道和第五大道东侧，那里在高峰期有多达2.5万行人步行经过。街角的检查站将会对行人的包袋进行检查。
In addition, the two easternmost lanes of Fifth Avenue from 55th to 57th Streets have been closed. The others remain open except in emergencies or to accommodate protests. Thousands of cars and 140 city buses pass by the tower at rush hour, and Chief Gomez said the closing, in effect for the transition, might be reconsidered later.
此外，第五大道从55街到57街最东边的两条车道已经关闭。其他车道保持开放，除非出现紧急情况或是为了容纳抗议活动。高峰时段将有数千辆汽车和140辆城市公交车从大厦前经过。这次封闭在过渡期间有效，戈麦斯说以后可能会另作考虑。
The retail and commercial areas of the building can be entered from Fifth Avenue, and from a connecting building at 590 Madison Avenue, and security personnel there scan bags with X-ray equipment. Trump businesses use offices on the 26th floor, accessible from these entrances. The tower has an atrium with retail stores, most of which are empty, along with some rooftop gardens on the fourth and fifth floors that are supposed to be open to the public.
这栋建筑的零售和商业区域可以从第五大道进入，也可以从麦迪逊大道590号的连接大楼进入，保安人员会用X光设备扫描包袋。特朗普的公司在26楼的办公室可以从这些入口进入。塔楼有一个开设零售店铺的中庭，其中大部分是空的，加上第四和第五层的屋顶花园，这些地方向公众开放。