President Donald J. Trump’s cabinet is shaping up to have a smaller percentage of women and nonwhites than the first cabinets of Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George Bush.
唐纳德·J·特朗普总统的内阁正在成形，其中的女性和非白人比例低于贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)、乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)、比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和乔治·布什(George Bush)的第一任内阁。
If Mr. Trump’s nominees are confirmed, women and nonwhites will hold five of 22 cabinet or cabinet-level positions. He has not yet named the nominee for one additional position.
如果特朗普的提名人选得到确认，女性和非白人将占据22人内阁或内阁级别职位中的5个。另外一个增列职位还没有确定提名人选。
“Donald Trump is rolling back the clock on diversity in the cabinet,” said Paul Light, a professor at New York University’s Wagner Graduate School of Public Service.
“在内阁人选多样化上，唐纳德·特朗普是在搞倒退，”纽约大学瓦格纳公共行政学院(New York University’s Wagner Graduate School of Public Service)教授保罗·莱特(Paul Light)说。
Number of white men in the first cabinet of each president
历任总统第一任内阁的白人男性成员人数
Those five members will also be in some of the lowest-ranking positions. None of them are in the so-called inner cabinet, the four positions in place since George Washington’s presidency: the attorney general and the secretaries of state, Treasury and defense (formerly called the secretary of war).
这五名成员也是被安排在一些级别最低的职位上。他们中没有一位是在所谓的核心内阁里，即自乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)担任总统以来一直存在的四个职位：司法部长、国务卿、财务部长和国防部长（以前被称为战争部长）。
The cabinet members below are listed in order of presidential succession. The inner cabinet comes after the vice president, House speaker and president pro tempore of the Senate.
以下提到的内阁成员以总统继任顺序排列。核心内阁成员要排在副总统、众议院议长和参议院临时议长之后。
The first cabinets of each president
历任总统的第一任内阁
Some positions, such as the United Nations ambassador and the Office of Management and Budget director, are given cabinet-level rank by individual presidents but are not traditionally considered part of the cabinet.
一些职位，比如驻联合国大使、行政管理与预算局(Office of Management and Budget)局长会被个别总统赋予内阁级别的地位，但通常不会被看作内阁成员。
Historically, white women were named to inner-cabinet positions before nonwhite men and women. Madeleine K. Albright served as secretary of state during Bill Clinton’s second term, and Janet Renoserved as attorney general during both of his terms.
从历史上看，白人女性获得核心内阁职位提名的时间早于非白人男性和女性。玛德琳·K·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine K. Albright)曾在比尔·克林顿的第二任期担任国务卿，珍妮特·雷诺(Janet Reno)在他的两任任期担任司法部长。
The first black person to run the State Department was Colin L. Powell in 2001. Eric H. Holder Jr., nominated by President Obama in 2009, was the first black attorney general.
首位黑人国务卿是2001年上任的科林·L·鲍威尔(Colin L. Powell)。2009年被奥巴马提名的小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)则是首位黑人司法部长。
“Secretary of Treasury and secretary of defense have never been a woman or a person of color,” said Anne O’Connell, professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Trump’s choices continue that pattern.
“财政部长和国防部长从来不曾由一位女性或有色人种担任，”加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的法学教授安妮·奥康奈尔(Anne O’Connell)说。特朗普的选择延续了这种模式。
Number of women and minorities in the first cabinet of each president
历任总统第一任内阁的女性与族裔成员人数
The few women and minorities in his cabinet occupy lower-ranking positions.
他内阁中为数不多的女性和少数族裔担任的是级别相对比较低的职位。
▪ Elaine L. Chao, who was selected to lead the Transportation Department, is from Taiwan. She previously served as secretary of labor during both terms of George W. Bush’s presidency.
▪ 被选中担任交通部长的赵小兰(Elaine L. Chao)来自台湾。她之前曾在乔治·W·布什的两任任期里担任劳工部长。
▪ Betsy DeVos was chosen as secretary of education.
▪ 贝茜·德沃斯(Betsy DeVos)被选中担任教育部长。
▪ Nikki R. Haley, who is of Indian heritage, is Mr. Trump’s pick for ambassador to the United Nations. She is currently the governor of South Carolina.
▪ 有印第安血统的尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)被特朗普选中担任美国驻联合国大使。目前她是南卡罗来纳州州长。
▪ Linda McMahon was chosen to run the Small Business Administration. She is the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment.
▪ 琳达·麦克马洪(Linda McMahon)被选中领导小企业管理局(Small Business Administration)。她之前曾担任世界摔角娱乐公司(World Wrestling Entertainment)的首席执行官。
▪ Every man in Mr. Trump’s proposed cabinet is white, except for Ben Carson, who is black. He was chosen to head the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
▪ 特朗普提名的内阁几乎是清一色的白人，只有被选中担任住房和城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development)部长的本·卡森(Ben Carson)是个例外，他是黑人。
Dr. Light, an expert on the presidential appointment process, said that having diversity in the cabinet became standard as nonwhites and women moved up the ranks in politics. “That happened over time, but presidents also became more sensitive to it,” he said.
研究总统任命过程的专家莱特表示，随着非白人和女性在政界地位上升，让内阁成员多样化成为了一种标准做法。“这是随着时间推移渐渐发生的，但总统们也变得对它更加敏感了，”他说。
During his first presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton said he would have a cabinet that “looks like America.” In the weeks before his inauguration, he was criticized by women’s organizations for not selecting women fast enough, but he ultimately appointed more women and African-Americans than his predecessors.
在第一任总统竞选中，克林顿曾表示他想组建一个“看上去像美国”的内阁。在正式就职前的几周内，他被妇女组织指责选择女性人选的步伐不够快，但他最终任命的女性和非裔美国人比他的前任都多。
“They come from diverse backgrounds, and we will all be better and stronger for that diversity,” he said in 1992. “I can say with pride that I believe this cabinet and these other appointees represent the best in America.”
“他们来自多样化的背景，因为这种多样性，我们反而更好、更强大，”他在1992年讲道。“我可以自豪地讲，我认为这届内阁和其他被任命的人选是美国的最佳代表。”
The first cabinets of George W. Bush and Mr. Obama were both noted for their diversity. In Mr. Bush’s initial administration, 45 percent of the cabinet and cabinet-level officials were women or nonwhite men. In Mr. Obama’s first cabinet, that figure was 64 percent.
乔治·W·布什和奥巴马的第一任内阁都以多样化著称。在布什的第一任期中，45%的内阁和内阁级别官员为女性和非白人男性。而在奥巴马的第一任内阁中，这个数字为64%。
Women in Cabinet Positions
担任内阁职位的女性
The nation’s first female cabinet member was Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins, who was chosen by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933. Since then, six more women have served as labor secretary, more than any other cabinet position. Mr. Obama, George W. Bush and George Bush all began their presidencies with women running the Labor Department.
这个国家的首位女性内阁成员，是1933年被富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)总统选中担任劳工部长的弗朗西丝·珀金斯(Frances Perkins)。自那以来，先后又有六位女性担任劳工部长，比其他任何内阁职位的女性人数都要多。奥巴马、乔治·W·布什和乔治·布什的第一任期都是由女性领导劳工部。
Minorities in Cabinet Positions
担任内阁职位的少数族裔
Norman Y. Mineta became the first Asian-American cabinet member when he ran the Commerce Department at the end of Mr. Clinton’s second term. He later served as secretary of transportation in George W. Bush’s first cabinet. Robert C. Weaver, who served under President Lyndon B. Johnson, became the first black cabinet member and the first-ever Housing and Urban Development secretary in 1966.
诺曼·Y·峰田(Norman Y. Mineta)在克林顿第二任期的后期担任商务部长，成为首位担任内阁职位的亚裔美国人。后来他还在乔治·W·布什的第一任内阁中担任运输部部长。1966年被林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)选入内阁的罗伯特·C·韦弗(Robert C. Weaver)是首位黑人内阁成员，也是美国有史以来第一位住房和城市发展部部长。