Suzanne Barakat, the sister of a Muslim student killed alongside his wife and sister-in-law last year in an attack in North Carolina, challenged Donald J. Trump to meet with her after a speech in which he spoke approvingly of killing Islamic terrorists with bullets dipped in the blood of pigs.
去年在北卡罗来纳州，一名穆斯林学生连同他的妻子和小姨子遭枪击身亡。该名穆斯林学生的姐姐苏珊·巴拉卡特(Suzanne Barakat)在唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)发表讲话，赞赏地谈论用浸过猪血的子弹击毙信奉伊斯兰教的恐怖分子之后，要求与特朗普当面对质。
Dr. Barakat, 28, a physician in San Francisco, said the comments and other anti-Muslim rhetoric from Mr. Trump, including a proposal to ban Muslims from entering the country, have contributed to an atmosphere of intolerance that she fears could have deadly consequences.
现年28岁的巴拉卡特是一名医生，现居旧金山。她表示，特朗普的上述评论以及他发表的其他反穆斯林言论，包括提议禁止穆斯林进入美国，加剧了一种不宽容的气氛，她担心这会造成人命关天的后果。
“It allows for the Average Joe to see Muslims the way Craig Hicks saw my brother and his wife of six weeks and her sister,” she said, referring to the man who killed her relatives last February. “As ‘The Other,’ as subhuman, because of their faith.”
“这就会让普罗大众像克雷格·希克斯(Craig Hicks)看待我弟弟、他刚结婚六周的妻子，以及她的妹妹那样，看待穆斯林，”她说。“因为他们的宗教信仰，把他们当成‘他者’，不当人看。”克雷格·希克斯于去年2月枪杀了她的亲人。
Mr. Trump has not responded to Dr. Barakat’s invitation for a face-to-face meeting, she said. It was delivered on Saturday via Twitter, a platform the Republican presidential candidate has frequently used to telegraph his views and to attack people, places and things that he dislikes.
巴拉卡特说，特朗普还没有回应她当面对质的邀请。该邀请是周六在Twitter上发出的，而角逐共和党大选提名的特朗普经常使用这个平台来发表自己的看法，并攻击他反感的人物、地区和事情。
“Trump speaks as if he is the authority on American Muslims,” said Dr. Barakat. “Well, if you mean it then call me up and meet with me and let’s have a chat.”
“特朗普发言时，仿佛自己是美国穆斯林议题的权威，”巴拉卡特说。“哎，如果你是认真的，就过来找我，我们碰个头，聊一聊。”
Mr. Trump made his remarks about blood-dipped bullets at a rally on Friday in South Carolina, before winning the state’s Republican primary the next day.
特朗普关于浸过血的子弹的言论，是周五在南卡罗来纳州的一场集会上发表的，第二天他就赢得了该州的共和党初选。
They came during a speech in which he repeated a questionable story told about Gen. John J. Pershing, an American Army leader of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. General Pershing, Mr. Trump said, used bullets dipped in pigs’ blood to summarily execute dozens of Muslim prisoners in the Philippines, shortly after the Spanish-American War.
特朗普在发表上述言论的发言中，重复了一段真实性存疑的故事。特朗普说，在西美战争之后不久，19世纪末20世纪初的美国陆军上将约翰·J·潘兴(John J. Pershing)曾在菲律宾用浸过猪血的子弹迅速处决了数十名穆斯林囚犯。
The story, which has circulated online for years, has been dismissed as unsupported by historical documentation or evidence by websites that fact-check Internet rumors. Mr. Trump used it to illustrate his call to push back with brutal force against both Islamic terrorism and political correctness.
然而在网上流传了很多年的这则故事，已经在核查网络谣言是否属实的网站上被揭穿，称没有历史文献或证据支持。特朗普讲这则故事，是为了给他极力压制伊斯兰恐怖主义和政治正确的呼吁提供例子。
“This is something you can read in the history books,” Mr. Trump told his supporters, adding, “Not a lot of history books, because they don’t like teaching it.”
“这是历史书中可以读到的东西，”特朗普对支持者说。“但这样的历史书不多，因为他们不想教这个。”
According to Mr. Trump’s telling, Gen. Pershing brought an end to terrorism after he captured 50 terrorists and executed 49 of them with blood-soaked bullets. The general told the sole survivor, “ ‘You go back to your people and you tell them what happened,’ ” Mr. Trump said.
按特朗普的叙述，潘兴抓获了50名恐怖分子，并用浸血的子弹处决了其中49人，于是平息了恐怖主义。特朗普讲述道，这名将领对唯一的生还者说，“回去找你们的人，告诉他们都发生了什么”。
Gen. Pershing used pigs’ blood, Mr. Trump said, because Muslims have “a whole thing with swine and animals and pigs, and you know the story — they don’t like them.”
特朗普说，潘兴之所以使用猪血，是因为穆斯林“对猪猡啊、动物啊、猪啊什么的特别事儿，你也懂的——他们就不喜欢那些。”
The moral, Mr. Trump said, is, “We better start getting tough, and we better start getting vigilant and using our heads, or we’re not going to have a country, folks.”
特朗普说，故事的中心思想是，“我们最好强硬起来，最好警惕起来，动动脑子，不然国将不国啊，伙计们。”
Muslim-American groups reacted with horror to the remarks. Nihad Awad, the Executive Director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations said in a statement that Mr. Trump had “crossed the line from spreading hatred to inciting violence” in ways that placed Muslim-Americans “at risk from rogue vigilantes.”
美国穆斯林团体对这番言论给出了惊惧的反应。美国与伊斯兰关系理事会(Council on American-Islamic Relations)执行主任尼哈德·阿瓦德(Nihad Awad)在一则声明中说，特朗普“越过了边界，从传播仇恨言论迈向了煽动暴力”，这样的言论让美国穆斯林“面临着受到自诩正义者攻击的风险”。
A little more than a year ago, Dr. Barakat’s brother Deah, 23, was shot and killed at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., alongside his wife, Yusor Abu-Salha, 21, and her sister, Razan Abu-Salha, 19. A neighbor, Craig Stephen Hicks, 46, turned himself in to police later that day.
一年多以前，巴拉卡特23岁的弟弟德阿(Deah)在他位于北卡罗来纳州教堂山的家中遭枪击身亡。一同遭枪击的还有他21岁的妻子玉苏尔·阿布萨勒哈(Yusor Abu-Salha)和她的妹妹拉赞·阿布萨勒哈(Razan Abu-Salha)。事发后不久，46岁的邻居克雷格·史蒂芬·希克斯(Craig Stephen Hicks)向警方自首。