Update: President-elect Donald J. Trump edged away on Thursday from his dismissive stance on American assessments of Russian hacking, saying he would meet with intelligence officials next week “to be updated on the facts” after the Obama administration announced sanctions against Moscow.
更新：周四，奥巴马政府宣布了针对莫斯科的制裁措施后，候任总统特朗普转换了态度，表示下周会与情报官员会面，“了解最新的事实情况”。此前他对美国针对俄罗斯黑客行为的评估不屑一顾。
In a brief written statement, Mr. Trump’s first response to President Obama’s sweeping action against Russia, the president-elect reiterated his call for “our country to move on to bigger and better things.” But he said that, “in the interest of our country and its great people,” he would get the briefing “nevertheless.”
在一则简略的书面声明中，特朗普对奥巴马总统全面反击俄罗斯行动的首要回应，是重申了自己的呼吁：“我们的国家要向前看，着手更重大和更好的事情。”但他也说，“为了我们国家和伟大人民的利益”，“仍然”会听取简报。
The statement to some extent echoed his remarks late Wednesday, when he was asked at his Mar-a-Lago estate about Mr. Obama’s plan to take action against Russia. In otherwise opaque comments, Mr. Trump appeared to concede the need to make computers more secure.
在某种程度上，这些说法呼应了他在周三晚的言论，当时他在马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)庄园被问及奥巴马反击俄罗斯的计划。在另外一些闪烁其词的评论中，特朗普似乎对使电脑更安全的需求让步了。
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President-elect Donald J. Trump said Americans should “get on with our lives” in comments to reporters before Thursday’s expected White House announcement that the United States will retaliate against Russia for its election-year hacking of Democratic Party computers.
佛罗里达州西棕榈滩——在白宫于周四不出意料地宣称美国会为俄罗斯在选举年袭击民主党计算机而对它进行报复之前，候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普曾对一些记者表示，美国人应该“继续自己的生活”。
Obama administration officials plan to announce a series of measures in response to the Russian meddling in the election, which could include publicly announced economic sanctions and secret countermeasures in cyberspace.
作为对俄罗斯干涉选举的回应，奥巴马政府的官员计划宣布一系列措施，其中可能包括公开宣布的经济制裁和秘密的网络对抗。
Asked late Wednesday night at his Mar-a-Lago estate about President Obama’s plans to take action against Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin, Mr. Trump was dismissive. He appeared to concede the need to make computers more secure, but was vague about how that related to a possible response to Russia.
周三深夜，特朗普在他的马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)庄园内被问到奥巴马总统对俄罗斯及其总统弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)采取行动的计划时，显得不屑一顾。他似乎承认需要让这些电脑变得更加安全，但在这与可能针对俄罗斯做出的反应有何关联上却含糊其辞。
“I think we ought to get on with our lives,” he said. “I think that computers have complicated lives very greatly. The whole age of computer has made it where nobody knows exactly what is going on. We have speed, we have a lot of other things, but I’m not sure we have the kind, the security we need.”
“我认为我们应该继续自己的生活，”他说。“我觉得计算机让生活变得极为复杂。计算机时代本身使我们没法真正清楚发生了什么事。我们有速度，有许多其他的东西，但我不确定我们拥有我们需要的那种安全。”
Mr. Trump took questions from a handful of reporters as Don King, the sports promoter and a longtime friend, stood next to him. The president-elect has not held a formal news conference since July, though he promised on Wednesday to hold one in early January.
特朗普接受了少数记者的采访，旁边站着他的老朋友、体育经纪人唐·金(Don King)。自今年7月以来，这位候任总统还没有举办过一场正式的新闻发布会，尽管他在周三承诺会在明年一月举行一次。
Mr. Obama vowed this month to respond to the hacking of the Democratic Party and other institutions, which intelligence agencies have concluded was perpetrated by Russia. In an interview with NPR, Mr. Obama said he would act after he received a final review of the cyberattacks from those agencies.
奥巴马本月发誓对民主党及其他机构遭黑客袭击事件做出回应。对于这些袭击，情报机构已经得出结论，认为是俄罗斯所为。奥巴马在接受美国国家公共广播电台(NPR)采访时表示，他会在收到这些情报机构发来的有关这些网络袭击的最终审议结果后采取行动。
“I think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take action,” Mr. Obama told NPR. “And we will — at a time and place of our own choosing. Some of it may be explicit and publicized; some of it may not be.”
“我认为，当任何外国政府试图影响我们选举的公正性时，我们毫无疑问必须采取行动，”奥巴马对NPR讲道。“我们会自己选择这个时间和地点。有些可能是明确的、公开的；有些可能不会。”
Mr. Trump has repeatedly expressed skepticism that Russia was behind the hacking during the election. In early December, the president-elect and his advisers mocked intelligence agencies for their conclusion that Russia was responsible.
对于俄罗斯是大选期间黑客袭击幕后组织者的观点，特朗普多次表示怀疑。在12月初，这位候任总统及其顾问嘲笑了情报机构得出的此事应由俄罗斯负责的结论。
On Twitter, Mr. Trump repeatedly raised doubts about Russia’s involvement in the hacking. He asked: “If Russia, or some other entity, was hacking, why did the White House wait so long to act?” In another, he asserted that “unless you catch ‘hackers’ in the act, it is very hard to determine who was doing the hacking.”
特朗普多次在Twitter上质疑俄罗斯参与袭击的说法。他问道：“如果俄罗斯，或者其他实体进行了黑客袭击，为什么白宫要等那么长时间才采取行动呢？”在另一篇推文中，他断言“除非你抓了黑客的现行，不然很难断定谁是黑客”。
In the posts, Mr. Trump wrongly asserted that the United States government had waited until after the election to accuse Russia, after his victory over Hillary Clinton. In fact, the administration had announced in October that it believed Russia was involved in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and the leaking of the organization’s emails.
在这些帖子中，特朗普错误地断言，美国政府是等到选举结束，即他打败了希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)后才对俄罗斯提出指控。而事实上，政府在10月就宣布，它认为俄罗斯与民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)遭黑客袭击及该机构邮件泄露有关。