WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump essentially excommunicated his onetime chief strategist, Steve Bannon, from his political circle Wednesday, excoriating him as a self-promoting exaggerator who had “very little to do with our historic victory” and has now “lost his mind.”
华盛顿——周三，唐纳德·特朗普总统从根本上将他从前的首席战略师史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)从他的政治圈中驱逐了出去，指责他是一个爱夸张的自我推销者，“与我们历史性的胜利几乎毫无关系”，而且现在“失去了理智”。
In a written statement brimming with anger and resentment, Trump fired back at Bannon, who had made caustic comments about the president and his family to the author of a new book about the Trump White House. While Bannon had remained in touch with Trump even after being pushed out of the White House last summer, the two now appear to have reached a breaking point.
在一份充满愤怒和怨恨的书面声明中，特朗普向班农发起了反击。之前，班农向一本关于特朗普白宫的新书的作者发表了关于总统及其家人的刻薄评论。尽管去年夏天班农被逐出白宫后仍与特朗普保持联系，但现在两人似乎已经到了决裂的边缘。
“Steve Bannon has nothing to do with me or my presidency,” Trump said in the statement. “When he was fired, he not only lost his job, he lost his mind.”
“史蒂夫·班农与我或我的总统职位没有任何关系，”特朗普在声明中表示。“他被撤职后，不仅失去了工作，而且失去了理智。”
Trump berated Bannon for the loss of a Senate seat in Alabama and said the former adviser did not represent his base but was “only in it for himself.” Rather than supporting the president’s agenda to “make America great again,” Bannon was “simply seeking to burn it all down,” Trump said.
特朗普斥责是班农导致共和党失去了亚拉巴马州的一个参议员席位，还说这位前顾问不代表他的选民，“只为他自己考虑”。特朗普表示，班农没有支持总统“让美国恢复伟大荣光”的议程，而是“只想把它全部烧毁”。
“Steve pretends to be at war with the media, which he calls the opposition party, yet he spent his time at the White House leaking false information to the media to make himself seem far more important than he was,” he added. “It is the only thing he does well. Steve was rarely in a one-on-one meeting with me and only pretends to have had influence to fool a few people with no access and no clue, whom he helped write phony books.”
“史蒂夫假装在与媒体对战，称媒体是反对党，但他在白宫时却把假信息泄露给媒体，让他自己显得比实际上重要得多，”特朗普还说。“这是他唯一擅长的事。史蒂夫很少与我单独会面，只是假装自己很有影响力，去愚弄少数没有其他途径或线索的人，他帮那些人写了一本假书。”
The president was responding to comments attributed to Bannon in a new book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” by Michael Wolff. The forthcoming book was obtained by The Guardian, which first reported Bannon’s jolting remarks.
总统这是在回应班农在迈克尔·沃尔夫(Michael Wolff)的新书《炮火和怒火：特朗普的白宫内部》(Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House)中所做的评论。这本即将出版的书被《卫报》(The Guardian)买下，并首先报道了班农令人震惊的言论。
In the book, Bannon was quoted suggesting that Donald Trump Jr., the future president’s son; Jared Kushner, his son-in-law; and Paul J. Manafort, then the campaign chairman, had been “treasonous” and “unpatriotic” for meeting with Russians offering incriminating information on Hillary Clinton during a June 2016 meeting in Trump Tower.
该书称，班农认为，未来总统的儿子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)、女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)以及时任竞选主席保罗·J·马纳福特(Paul J. Manafort)2016年6月在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)与俄罗斯人会面，获取他们提供的证明希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)有罪的信息，是“不爱国”的“叛国”行为。
“The three senior guys in the campaign thought it was a good idea to meet with a foreign government inside Trump Tower in the conference room on the 25th floor — with no lawyers. They didn’t have any lawyers,” Bannon said after The New York Times revealed the meeting in July 2017, according to Wolff’s book.
据沃尔夫的书称，班农在《纽约时报》于2017年7月曝光此次会面后表示：“竞选团队中的三名高级别人士认为，在没有律师在场的情况下，在特朗普大厦25层的会议室里与外国政府会面是一个好主意。他们没有请任何律师到场。”
“Even if you thought that this was not treasonous, or unpatriotic, or bad shit, and I happen to think it’s all of that, you should have called the FBI immediately,” Bannon continued, according to the book.
据那本书称，班农还说：“即便你们认为这不是叛国，不是不爱国，不是很恶劣——而我碰巧认为这个事件就是这种性质——你们也应该立即打电话向联邦调查局报告。”
According to Wolff, Bannon also predicted that a special counsel investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and any coordination with Trump aides would ultimately center on money laundering, an assessment that could lend credibility to an investigation the president has repeatedly called a witch hunt. “They’re going to crack Don Junior like an egg on national TV,” Bannon was quoted as saying.
据沃尔夫称，班农还预测，关于俄罗斯干预2016年大选以及俄罗斯与特朗普助手的任何协作的特别调查，最终将集中在洗钱问题上。班农的这项预测可能会给被总统多次称为“政治迫害”的调查提供可信度。“他们会在国家电视台上像捏碎鸡蛋一样碾压小唐，”据称班农说。
An excerpt from Wolff’s book, published in New York Magazine on Wednesday, cites derogatory comments about Trump from some of the president’s closest allies.
《纽约杂志》(New York Magazine)周三刊登的沃尔夫新书的节选引用了特朗普最亲密的一些盟友对他的贬损言论。
At least one person named in the book pushed back against it Wednesday. Thomas J. Barrack, a friend and adviser to Trump, was quoted telling a friend that the president is “not only crazy, he’s stupid.”
周三当天，至少有一个书中提到的人进行了反击。书中称特朗普的朋友兼顾问托马斯·J·巴拉克(Thomas J. Barrack)告诉一个朋友，总统“不仅疯狂，还很愚蠢”。
Reached by telephone Wednesday, Barrack said this account was “totally false.” Barrack added, “It’s clear to anyone who knows me that those aren’t my words and inconsistent with anything I’ve ever said.” He said that Wolff never ran that quotation by him to ask if it was accurate.
周三接到电话时，巴拉克在电话中说这些话“完全是子虚乌有”。他补充说，“所有认识我的人都清楚，这不是我说的，也不符合我曾经说过的任何话。”他说，沃尔夫从来没有拿着这句引语来问他是否准确。
Wolff was frequently seen in Bannon’s office while the Breitbart chairman was working in the White House. According to two advisers to Trump, Wolff spoke with the president once, for about 15 minutes, in the first month of the administration, when Trump called Wolff to thank him for his criticism of a Times article that the president did not like.
在身为布莱巴特(Breitbart)董事长的班农还在白宫任职期间，沃尔夫经常被人看到出现在班农的办公室里。据特朗普的两名顾问称，在特朗普政府上台的第一个月，沃尔夫与总统交谈过一次，持续大约15分钟。当时，特朗普打电话给沃尔夫，感谢沃尔夫批评他不喜欢的一篇时报文章。
The White House on Wednesday attacked not just Bannon but the book as a whole, hoping to diminish its reporting.
白宫周三不仅攻击班农，还攻击了整本书，希望减少对它的报道。
“This book is filled with false and misleading accounts from individuals who have no access or influence with the White House,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “Participating in a book that can only be described as trashy tabloid fiction exposes their sad desperate attempts at relevancy.”
“这本书里充斥着对白宫没有接触或影响的个人给出的虚假和误导性言论，”白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)说。“参与一本只能用垃圾的小报杜撰来形容的书，暴露了他们孤注一掷地想要引起关注的可悲企图。”
The book presents Trump as an ill-informed and thoroughly unserious candidate and president, engaged mainly in satisfying his own ego. It reports that early in the campaign, one aide, Sam Nunberg, was sent to explain the Constitution to the candidate. “I got as far as the Fourth Amendment,” it quoted Nunberg saying, “before his finger is pulling down on his lip and his eyes are rolling back in his head.”
这本书把特朗普描述成了一个孤陋寡闻、极其不严肃的候选人和总统，主要忙于满足他自己的自负。书中称，在竞选早期，一个名叫萨姆·农贝格(Sam Nunberg)的助手被派去向他解释宪法。“我才讲到《第四修正案》，”书中援引农贝格的话说，“他已经开始一边用手指拉扯嘴唇一边翻白眼了。”
According to the book, neither Trump nor his wife, Melania Trump, nor many of his aides actually expected to win the election in November 2016 and indeed did not really want to. It describes a distraught Melania Trump as being in tears on election night, not out of joy, and said the new president and first lady were fighting on Inauguration Day.
根据这本书的说法，2016年11月，特朗普和妻子梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)以及他的很多助手都没想到会赢得选举，其实也不是真的想赢。书中说心烦意乱的梅拉尼娅·特朗普在选举夜流泪并不是因为高兴，并说新总统和第一夫人在就职日当天发生了争吵。
Melania Trump authorized her office to rebut the book on Wednesday. “The book is clearly going to be sold in the bargain fiction section,” Stephanie Grisham, the first lady’s communications director. “Mrs. Trump supported her husband’s decision to run for president and in fact encouraged him to do so. She was confident he would win and was very happy when he did.”
梅拉尼娅·特朗普周三授权她的办公室反驳了这本书。“这本书显然会被摆在廉价小说区卖，”第一夫人的通讯联络主管史蒂芬妮·格里沙姆(Stephanie Grisham)说。“特朗普夫人支持丈夫竞选总统的决定，实际上曾鼓励他这么做。她相信他会赢，在他真的赢了时感到非常高兴。”