The artist Laure Prouvost, whose works combine whimsical objects and drawings in evocative settings with an Instagram-like stream of film images, has won this year’s Turner Prize, the prestigious and often contentious annual award for a British artist under 50.
艺术家洛尔·普鲁沃(Laure Prouvost)成为今年的特纳奖(Turner Prize)得主。她擅长将古怪的物品和绘画结合起来，放入引人遐想的场景中，配上Instagram式的一系列影像。特纳奖是为50岁以下的英国艺术家设立的重要年度奖项，但往往伴有争议。
The award, 25,000 pounds, or about $41,000, was presented to Ms. Prouvost on Monday night at a ceremony at Ebrington Barracks in Londonderry, Northern Ireland — the first time the exhibition and ceremony are taking place outside England.
周一晚上，在北爱尔兰伦敦德里郡艾布灵顿兵营举行的仪式上，普鲁沃被授予2.5万英镑的奖金，约合4.1万美元。这是该展览和仪式首次在英国以外的地方举行。
The jury, a four-person panel of curators and art-world personalities, commended Ms. Prouvost’s work for “its complex and courageous combination of images and objects in a deeply atmospheric environment.” The jury added, “Building on personal memory, it weaves together fact, fiction, art history and modern technology.”
一个由策展人和艺术界要人组成的四人评审小组称赞普鲁沃的作品“把图像和物品复杂、大胆地组合在非常有感染力的场境中”。评审组补充说，“它以个人记忆为基础，把事实、虚构、艺术历史和现代科技结合在一起。”
Ms. Prouvost, 35, has lived in London since coming to study at Central St. Martins arts college at the age of 18. She was an unlikely winner — at least judging by her low odds at the bookmakers, who take bets every year on the prize, and from social media comments in the hours before the announcement.
35岁的普鲁沃从18岁到中央圣马丁艺术学院学习起就一直住在伦敦。之前她并不被看好，至少每年给该奖项押注的人认为她获奖的几率比较低，获奖结果公布之前几个小时社交媒体上对她的呼声也不高。
But “Wantee,” the film installation for which she was nominated, and which she showed in the Turner Prize exhibition, beat out strong competition, including the performance artist Tino Sehgal, long considered the favorite; the portrait painter Lynette Yiadom-Boakye; and David Shrigley, a commercially successful artist known for books of illustrations, photography, cartoons, sculpture, animation and painting since the early 1990s.
但是，她获得提名的电影装置作品、在特纳奖展览上展出的《Wantee》打败了强有力的竞争对手，包括获奖热门，行为艺术家蒂诺·赛格尔(Tino Sehgal)；肖像画家利奈特·伊阿德姆-博阿基耶(Lynette Yiadom-Boakye)；以及商业上大获成功的艺术家大卫·施莱格雷(David Shrigley)，他从20世纪90年代初开始创作，以插画书、摄影、卡通、雕塑、动画和绘画作品闻名。
Ms. Prouvost’s installation, co-commissioned by Grizedale Arts and the Tate Britain, for the Tate’s “Schwitters in Britain” show this year, draws the visitor into a dimly lit room full of rickety chairs, charmingly lumpy crockery and mysterious objects and drawings in cabinets. A film, animated by Ms. Prouvost’s soft, breathy, French-accented words, tells the fictional story of her grandfather, a conceptual artist who is a friend of Kurt Schwitters, and whose last artwork is to dig a tunnel down which he eventually disappears.
普鲁沃的装置作品是受Grizedale艺术馆和泰特美术馆联合委托为今年泰特美术馆的“施维特斯在英国”(Schwitters in Britain)展览创作的。它把观众带入一个昏暗的房间，里面放着快散架的椅子和笨拙可爱的陶器，橱柜里放着神秘的物品和绘画。在一段视频里，普鲁沃用带有法国口音的英语轻柔地讲述着关于她祖父的虚构故事——他是个概念派艺术家，是库尔特·施维特斯(Kurt Schwitters)的朋友，他最后的艺术作品就是挖一个地洞，他最后沿着地洞走下去，消失不见。
Penelope Curtis, the jury chairwoman and the Tate Britain director, said that the jury found Ms. Prouvost’s work to contain “strong storytelling, quick cuts, montage and deliberate misuse of language to create surprising and unpredictable work.” The panel members, she said, were drawn into the work more deeply than they anticipated and were “unexpectedly moved” by its richness of texture, “both handmade and technologically current.”
评审组主席、泰特美术馆馆长佩内洛普·柯蒂斯(Penelope Curtis)说，评审组发现普鲁沃的作品具有“很强的故事性，使用快速剪切和蒙太奇手法，对语言的故意误用造成意想不到和无法预测的效果”。她说，评审组成员意外地被这个作品深深吸引，“意外地”被它的丰富质地“感动”，“里面既有手工制作的物品，也有用现代科技制作的物品”。
Critical reaction to Ms. Prouvost’s win was a generally surprised one. “Laure Prouvost being given the award shows that the Turner Prize still has the capacity to be unpredictable,” wrote Will Gompertz, the BBC arts editor, on the BBC website after the announcement. “You could describe her installation as a cross between a Santa’s grotto and an old junk shop, but that’s not to say it doesn’t have its own merits and provocations.” A little chauvinism was also apparent: “French outsider announced as 2013 winner,” said a headline on The Guardian’s website.
评论家们对普鲁沃获奖的反应总体来说是感到意外。获奖结果公布后，BBC的艺术编辑威尔·冈珀茨(Will Gompertz)在BBC网站上写道，“洛尔·普鲁沃获奖表明，特纳奖仍然不可预测”，“你可以把她的装置作品看作是圣诞老人的洞穴和旧货店的结合体，但也不是说它就没有优点和挑衅之处”。而且也能看出轻微的大国沙文主义：《卫报》(Guardian)网站的一个标题写道，“外来的法国人成为2013年的获奖者”。
Ms. Prouvost was born in Lille, near the border with Belgium, where she attended a school with a strong arts focus. “I was not so articulate at school, and think in some ways I always wanted to be an artist,” she said in a Skype interview two weeks before the awards ceremony. “Maybe because I wasn’t allowed to watch TV at home,” she added, “I was playing around with a video camera quite young.”
普鲁沃出生在里尔，靠近比利时边境，她在那里上学时就表现出对艺术的强烈兴趣。“我在学校里不太善于表达，从某些角度说我一直想成为艺术家，”颁奖仪式两周前她在Skype的一个采访中说。“也许是因为我在家不能看电视，”她补充说，“所以我很小的时候就拿着摄像机四周游玩。”
Only for the past four or five years has her work has been successful enough for her to pursue full time, Ms. Prouvost said. In 2011 she won the Max Mara prize; the Turner Prize, which has been won by art-world luminaries like Grayson Perry, Anish Kapoor and Damien Hirst, is likely to ensure her far greater visibility.
普鲁沃说，直到最近四五年她的作品才获得成功，让她能够全职搞艺术。2011年，她获得了Max Mara女性艺术奖。特纳奖曾授予艺术界的很多杰出人物，比如格雷森·佩里(Grayson Perry)，阿尼什·卡普尔(Anish Kapoor)和达米安·赫斯特(Damien Hirst)。获得该奖很可能会让普罗沃的知名度提高很多。
“What is great about the Turner Prize is that people see the work,” Ms. Prouvost said. “I am coming from the experimental scene and questioning the idea of telling the story and making moving images. Even if you don’t like my work, I think the prize has a power in that way. It creates discussion whether positive or negative.”
“特纳奖可贵的一点是能令人们观看那件作品，”普鲁沃说，“我是抱着试验的态度，想看看讲故事和制作动态影像的想法是否可行。即使你不喜欢我的作品，这个奖也能让你看到它，能引发人们的争论。”
On Monday night, the jury clearly liked it.
周一晚上，评审组显然很喜欢它。 