When “Freaky Deaky” came out in 1988, Elmore Leonard’s writing credo hadn’t quite kicked in yet. Though he would later deliver 10 great rules for writing with streamlined tough-guy elegance, the dedication for “Freaky Deaky” thanked his wife for giving him “a certain look when I write too many words.”
《疯狂玩弹家》(Freaky Deaky) 在1988年出版时，埃尔默·莱昂纳德(Elmore Leonard)还没完全确立自己的写作信条。后来他写了如何以流畅简洁的硬汉风格写作的“10条重要原则”，不过在《疯狂玩弹家》的题献中他感谢妻子“当我写得太啰唆时会丢给我一个特别的眼神”。
But even in 1988, not yet at his most terse, Mr. Leonard was garnering praise so high it defied belief. “Who else gets reviews like these?!” asked the back cover of his next book, “Killshot” (1989). Who, indeed. Among the mash notes cited were “No one writes better”; “It’s impossible not to love Elmore Leonard”; “Leonard is a national literary treasure”; “The most interesting author of crime fiction that we have ever had”; and “When a new Leonard book comes out, it’s like Christmas morning.”
甚至在1988年，他的文风仍未臻简洁顶峰之际，莱昂纳德就已得到难以置信的溢美。“还有什么人能获得这样的评价？！”他的下一本书，1989年的《射杀》(Killshot)封底上这样问道。确实如此，在一大堆好评中有“没人能写得更好了”、“不可能不爱上埃尔默·莱昂纳德”、“莱昂纳德是国家的文学之宝”、“犯罪小说领域里迄今最有趣的作家”，以及“莱昂纳德的新书出来那天就像过圣诞节一样”之类的话。
Amazingly, that praise was fair. And it couldn’t even inspire resentment among other writers. Stephen King grudgingly approached his first Leonard book, suspicious of such a critics’ darling. But he picked up “Glitz” (1985), got hooked, and came up with the best no-nonsense description of the Leonard effect: “This is the kind of book that if you get up to see if there are any chocolate chip cookies left, you take it with you so you won’t miss anything.”
令人惊讶的是，这些赞美是公平的，甚至不会激起其他作家的怨恨不平。斯蒂芬·金(Stephen King)第一次看莱昂纳德的书时还不情不愿，对这个评论家的宠儿满腹狐疑。但当他打开1985年的《浮华》(Glitz)时，一下就被迷住了，还给出了对莱昂纳德的最佳严肃评价：“这种书你早上起来去找巧克力饼干时都要随身带着它，确保不会遗漏只字片语。”
Mr. Leonard, who died on Tuesday, will forever be admired for the sheer irresistibility of the stories he told. But his legacy is much larger. He was the most influential, widely imitated crime writer of his era, and his career was a long one: more than 60 years.
莱昂纳德先生于周二逝世（8月20日——译注），他讲述的那些令人难以抗拒的故事会永远被人欣赏。但他留下的遗产远不止于此。他是他那个年代最有影响力、最被广泛模仿的犯罪小说作家，而且他的写作生涯持续了60多年。
After he had worked in advertising long enough to learn to appreciate brevity and catchiness, he began writing pulp westerns. They weren’t that different from the crime books that would come later. The talk was tight and crisp, the action even more so, though Mr. Leonard also kept readers slightly off balance.
他曾在广告界工作过很长一段时间，学会了欣赏简洁之美与吸引读者的艺术，之后开始创作通俗西部小说。它们和他后来写的犯罪小说没有太大不同：对话爽快紧凑，打斗更是干脆利落，另外也会稍稍出乎读者意料之外。
“You come to see me. How do you know I’m here?” the title character is asked in “Valdez Is Coming” (1970).
 “你来看我。你是怎么知道我在这儿的？”在他1970年的小说《瓦尔德来了》(Valdez Is Coming)中，别人这样问瓦尔德。
“You or somebody else,” Valdez replies. “It doesn’t matter.”
 “是你还是别人，”瓦尔德说，“都无所谓。”
Mr. Leonard’s books did most of their work through dialogue, some of it hard-boiled, some delectably funny. Either way, the syntax was contagious, to the point where Mr. Leonard’s writing voice echoes every time another crime writer drops a subject or pronoun, links unrelated clauses with just a comma.
莱昂纳德的书大部分通过对话展开，有些非常激烈，有些则十分有趣，令人愉快。不管是哪一种，句子都十分有感染力，以至于其他犯罪小说家每当想写莱昂纳德那样的句子，便会放弃主语或代词，只用逗号连缀起不相关的句子。
Martin Amis called attention to Mr. Leonard’s much-copied use of the present participle: “Warren Ganz, living up in Manalapan” was his way of saying “Warren Ganz lived up in Manalapan.” Just as distinctive were his capsule descriptions, like this one from “Djibouti,” about Somali pirates: “They on the sauce gettin millions for their ransom notes.”
马丁·艾米斯(Martin Amis)让人们注意到莱昂纳德对现在分词的运用经常被人模仿：如果他要表示“沃伦·冈兹当时住在马纳拉潘”的话，他会写：“沃伦·冈兹，住在马纳拉潘”。他那浓缩概况的叙述风格也同样独具特色，比如描写索马里海盗的小说《德吉布提》(Djibouti)中写道：“他们大醉之下想靠赎金捞个几百万。”
“Djibouti” was published in 2010, when Mr. Leonard was 85. He showed no signs of slowing down. Even the title had that Leonard snap — just pronounce it — and belonged in a league with “Maximum Bob,” “Get Shorty,” “Pronto,” “Tishomingo Blues,” “LaBrava” and a slew of other unforgettables. His characters, as ever, were prone to wildly unrealistic assessments of their own talents. “Djibouti” paired a gutsy, good-looking filmmaker (modeled on Kathryn Bigelow) with a 72-year-old sailor who thinks she can barely resist him. “Xavier LeBo believed was he 10 years younger, they’d be letting good times roll all over this boat,” the book explained. Or said. It was one of Mr. Leonard’s firm beliefs that “said” was the only verb that should be used with quotations.
《德吉布提》是2010年出版的，当时莱昂纳德85岁。他完全没有放慢写作速度的迹象。就连书名也是莱昂纳德的干脆作风——不信读读看——和他的《最大鲍勃》(Maximum Bob)、《矮子当道》(Get Shorty)、《快》(Pronto)、《迪舍明戈布鲁斯》(Tishomingo Blues)、《拉布拉瓦》(LaBrava)等大量令人难忘的书名一样。他笔下的人物也和以往一样，极度不现实地评价自己的才能。《德吉布提》把一个漂亮勇敢的女导演（以凯瑟琳·毕格罗[Kathryn Bigelow]为原型）和一个72岁的老水手配成一对，他觉得她肯定无法抗拒自己的魅力。“泽维尔·勒波(Xavier LeBo)相信如果自己年轻10岁，他们肯定能在船上风流快活一下，”书中这样解释——或者应该写成“书中这样说”。因为莱昂纳德有一条写作铁律，那就是笔下人物在对话时，只能用“说”作为动词。
Some of the best working crime writers, like George Pelecanos, Carl Hiaasen and Lee Child, have found ways to claim and use Mr. Leonard’s brand of conversational economy. Mr. Pelecanos shares the Leonard ear for street talk; Mr. Hiaasen the wild plotting skills and keen eye for low life; Mr. Child the premium placed on not wasting words. But there are lesser imitators who fail to realize that sounding Leonard-like isn’t enough. His flair is hard to borrow, because so much of it depends on what he did not write, not what he did. As with a Japanese line drawing, the bare space is as meaningful as the marks that have been made. There was great elegance to his elision.
乔治·皮勒卡诺斯(George Pelocanos)、卡尔·席亚森(Carl Hiaasen)和李·柴尔德(Lee Child)等最好的犯罪小说作家们都想方设法借鉴和使用莱昂纳德招牌式的精简对话。皮勒卡诺斯学到莱昂纳德的街头对话；席亚森学到疯狂的情节构思技巧和对底层生活的密切观察；柴尔德学会了绝不说废话。但是模仿者们都明白，只是模仿莱昂纳德的口吻显然是不够的。他的才华很难模仿，因为这很大程度上并不取决于他写什么，而是取决于他不写什么。如同一幅日本线描画，留白之处与图案同样涵义丰富。他所省略的部分令小说极度凝练优美。
Many of his books became movie-bait, but for most of his career, the novels came first. A comedy of errors like “Get Shorty” so easily lent itself to screen treatment that an adaptation was inevitable. But no matter how well a Leonard character like that book’s Chili Palmer is played (John Travolta fully inhabited him), the film versions couldn’t match the leanness of the books. There are good movies adapted from Leonard novels (“Out of Sight,” “52 Pick-Up,” “3:10 to Yuma,” filmed twice), but they don’t beat their sources.
他的很多书都被改编为电影，但在他整个写作生涯里，还是小说创作优先。《矮子当道》是一部充满错误的喜剧，可以轻松搬上银幕，因此被改编为电影不可避免。约翰·特拉沃塔(John Travolta)充分诠释了书中基利·帕尔默(Chili Palmer)这个人物，但是不管莱昂纳德书中的人物被演绎得多好，电影总是缺乏小说那种简洁感。《视野之外》(Out of Sight)、《52号密杀令》(52 Pick-Up)、《决斗尤玛镇》（3:10 to Yuma，曾两次被搬上银幕），都是由莱昂纳德的小说改编的电影佳作，但它们与原著无法媲美。
Mr. Leonard’s endless resilience is one more kind of inspiration he leaves behind. He kept writing, and writing sharply, at an age when many authors are conspicuously past their prime. His prime never ended. And he never ceased to write with the verve of a young and vital mind.
莱昂纳德无比的坚毅也激励着后人。在他这个年纪，很多作家已经过了全盛时期，但他还在坚持写作，勤奋地写作。他的全盛时期从未终结。他的创作头脑也一直保持着青春活力。
Nor did his sense of humor ever leave him. In “Road Dogs” (2009) he tossed in this exchange between a priest and a gay gangster:
他也从未失去幽默感。在2009年的《公路狗》(Road Dogs)中，他这样描写一位神父和一个同性恋匪徒之间的对话：
“Up to this time you’ve been chaste?”
 “直到此刻你依然保持贞操？”
“You mean, Father, by dudes? If I like a guy he don’t have to chase me.”
 “神父，你是说跟男人？如果我喜欢一个男人，贞操随时丢掉。”