HONG KONG — Natalie Leung, a 16-year-old student in Hong Kong, first learned about the Holocaust about four years ago, when she read Anne Frank’s “The Diary of a Young Girl.” The book opened her eyes to one of the worst atrocities of the 20th century in which six million Jews died at the hands of the Nazis and their collaborators.
香港——香港16岁学生纳塔莉·梁(Natalie Leung)是在大约四年前读安妮·弗兰克(Anne Frank)写的《安妮日记》(The Diary of a Young Girl)时，才第一次了解到犹太人大屠杀(Holocaust)。那本书让她认识到20世纪最惨绝人寰的暴行之一，在那场大屠杀中，600万犹太人死在纳粹及其同伙手下。
The Holocaust, however, is not a topic that students at local Chinese schools are likely to encounter in class. “We learned about Chinese history, but not much about world history,” said Ms. Leung, who has since switched from a Chinese school to an international one.
然而，当地中文学校的学生却不大可能在课堂上听到犹太人大屠杀这个话题。“我们学习中国历史，但不太学习世界历史，”纳塔莉说。后来，纳塔莉从中文学校转到了一家国际学校。
A Hong Kong-based nonprofit organization is trying to offer what is lacking. In 2011, a group of largely Jewish residents founded the Hong Kong Holocaust and Tolerance Center to raise awareness and promote education about the Holocaust, both locally and, eventually, more widely. The center has organized activities in about two dozen schools, including screening of films and talks by Holocaust survivors.
一家位于香港的非营利组织正在努力填补这一缺口。2011年，一个主要由犹太人居民构成的群体创建了香港犹太大屠杀及宽容中心，在当地以及最终在更大范围内提高对大屠杀的认识，并推动相关教育。该中心已在大约20多所学校开展活动，包括放映电影，以及邀请大屠杀幸存者进行演讲。
As part of the commemoration for International Holocaust Remembrance Day on Monday, it is having Olga Horak, an 86-year-old Slovak-born Jewish Australian who survived the Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen concentration camps, visit selected schools in the city.
作为周一（1月27日——译者注）国际大屠杀纪念日纪念活动的一部分，中心将邀请86岁的澳大利亚犹太人奥尔加·霍拉克(Olga Horak) 到访市内选出的几所学校。霍拉克出生于斯洛伐克，她是奥斯维辛集中营和贝尔根-贝尔森集中营的幸存者。
It is also working with the Hong Kong Education Bureau on two projects. One is to prepare teaching materials, in Chinese and English, for use in secondary schools and universities. The other is to create teacher training materials to help educators integrate the Holocaust and other genocides into their class work.
该中心还在和香港教育局合作开展两个项目。一个是准备中学和大学用教材。另一个项目是创造出一些教师培训材料，帮助老师将大屠杀和其他一些种族屠杀的内容融入到课堂教学中。
“Teaching about the Holocaust is an opportunity to teach about tolerance,” said Jeremy Amias, a co-founder of the center, and its chairman.
“教授大屠杀是个教育学生宽容的机会，”中心联合创始人、主席杰里米·埃米亚斯(Jeremy Amias)说。
Except for a relatively small number of students attending international schools with Western curriculums, most young Hong Kongers enrolled in local schools are unlikely to learn about World War II in Europe or the Holocaust. “It is not part of the local curriculum,” said Hayley Goldberg, a board member of the center who teaches at an international school, Li Po Chun United World College.
除了一小部分上国际学校，并学习西方课程的学生，大部分在当地学校读书的香港人不太可能了解二战时期的欧洲历史或犹太大屠杀。“这不是当地课程设置的一部分，”该中心执行委员会成员、在国际学校香港李宝椿联合世界书院(Li Po Chun United World College)任教的海利·戈尔德贝格(Hayley Goldberg)说。
“The most important part of our activities is youth education,” Ms. Goldberg said of the center’s work.
“我们所开展活动中最重要的部分就是对年轻人的教育，”戈尔德贝格在说到中心的工作时表示。
In addition to its school and college projects, the center runs a public outreach program. In October and November, it organized a Holocaust exhibition titled “An Oasis of Survival and Hope,” displaying artworks by Hong Kong students along with works by children who had been imprisoned in the Theresienstadt concentration camp in what is now the Czech Republic.
除了在中学和大学开展的项目，中心还有一个公共活动项目。中心在10月和11月，组织了一个名为“生还和希望的绿洲”的大屠杀展览，展出香港学生的艺术作品，以及之前被关押在泰雷津纳粹集中营的孩子的作品。该集中营所在地位于现在的捷克共和国境内。
Asia had its own share of massacres in the past century, including: the Japanese mass killings of Chinese prisoners and civilians in Nanjing in 1937-1938; the Indonesian massacres of alleged communists in 1965-1966; and the Khmer Rouge killing fields in Cambodia in the 1970s.
过去的一个世纪里，亚洲本身也经历了多起大屠杀，其中包括：1937-1938年日本人在南京对被关押的中国战犯和平民实施的大屠杀；1965-1966年，印度尼西亚人对被指认的共产党员进行的屠杀；以及20世纪70年代，红色高棉在柬埔寨设立的屠杀场。
And while Germany killed millions of Jews during World War II, the Shanghai ghetto in the 1940s, under Japanese control, was a noted haven for Jewish refugees from the European slaughter.
而且，虽然二战期间德国人杀害了数百万犹太人，但在20世纪40年代，日本人控制下的上海贫民区却是犹太难民躲避欧洲大屠杀的著名庇护地。
But a lack of Holocaust awareness in Asia has produced some controversies.
但在亚洲，对大屠杀缺乏认识也引起了一些争议。
Last July, students at Thailand’s prestigious Chulalongkorn University, in Bangkok, painted a mural of superheroes to celebrate graduation day. On the large banner, flanked by Batman and Captain America, was Adolf Hitler giving the Nazi salute — a gesture mimicked by students who happily posed in front of the giant painting.
去年7月，泰国著名学府、位于曼谷的朱拉隆功大学(Chulalongkorn University)的学生画了超级英雄的壁画来庆祝毕业。在一幅大型壁画上，站在蝙蝠侠和美国队长中间的，是在行纳粹军礼的阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)——一些学生满脸笑容地站在巨幅壁画前，模仿希特勒的姿势拍照。
In the same week, a newspaper report featured Soldatenkaffee, a Nazi-theme restaurant in Bandung, Indonesia, with walls adorned with swastikas, a large photograph of Hitler and waiters dressed in Nazi uniforms.
同一个星期，一家报纸刊出一篇关于位于印度尼西亚万隆的纳粹主题餐厅士兵咖啡馆(Soldatenkaffe)的特写报道，餐厅里装饰着万字，还有一张巨大的希特勒照片，里面的服务员都穿着纳粹军服。
In 2003, the Hong Kong fashion chain Izzue produced a casual chic clothing line sporting Nazi symbols, and at various times Hitler-theme shops and bars have cropped up in cities across the region, from Ahmedabad in India to the South Korean capital, Seoul.
2003年，香港时装连锁品牌Izzue推出了一个时尚休闲服装系列，而这些衣服上印着纳粹的标志；而且，在这个地区的不同城市，从印度的艾哈迈达巴德到韩国首都首尔，经常会突然冒出希特勒主题商店和酒吧。
“I don’t think they are racist,” said Mr. Amias, whose mother, as a child, survived detection hidden by a Catholic family in Belgium. “It is partly because of lack of knowledge. They may not mean it, but it is offensive. People need to understand that Hitler was a very bad guy.”
“我不认为他们是种族主义者，”埃米亚斯说。埃米亚斯母亲小时候在比利时被一个天主教家庭藏起来而没被发现。“部分是因为缺乏知识。这可能不是他们的本意，但这种做法很冒犯人。人们需要知道希特勒是很坏的一个人。”
There are two older Holocaust education centers in East Asia, both in Japan: the Hong Kong center, however, has the widest, most regional perspective of the three.
在亚洲还有两个创立更早的大屠杀教育中心，它们都在日本；但在三个中心中，香港犹太大屠杀及宽容中心的视野是最开阔的，也是最具地区性的。
It has plans to create materials on fighting anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination in English, Chinese and other Asian languages. It also seeks to address the region’s other genocidal episodes.
该中心打算用英语、汉语和其他亚洲语言编写关于抗击反犹主义和其他形式歧视的宣传材料。该机构还寻求讨论该地区其他的种族屠杀案例。
“We are trying to make it relevant,” said Mr. Amias. “We see many similarities between these different events. When you make it more locally relevant, it is more interesting to the local students.”
埃米亚斯说，“我们正努力让这个话题深入人心，我们在不同的事件中看到很多相似之处。当你让它与本地人关系更密切，当地的学生才会更感兴趣。”
This may not be easy. Many Asian countries are reluctant to confront their own dark chapters of history: Violent pasts are often missing from school textbooks and curriculums.
这可能并不容易。许多亚洲国家不愿面对自己历史的黑暗章节：野蛮的历史通常在教科书和课程中被抹去。
Another challenge lies in Muslim-majority countries such as Indonesia and Malaysia, where anti-Jewish sentiment has risen, partly stoked by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Last May, Beth Shalom in Surabaya, Indonesia, a heritage site and Java Island’s last synagogue, was demolished in unexplained circumstances.
另一个挑战存在于穆斯林占多数的国家，比如印尼和马来西亚，在这里，反犹情绪已经抬头，这在一定程度上是被巴以冲突点燃的。去年5月，印尼泗水的贝斯·索隆犹太教堂(Beth Shalom)在没有任何说法的情况下被拆除，这是一处文化遗产，也是爪哇岛最后的一座犹太教堂。
“Indonesia is not the most sensitive place” about Holocaust education, said Ahmad Suaedy, of The Wahid Institute, a research center in Jakarta that promotes pluralism and tolerance. That is partly because “the education sector is controlled by the religious conservatives,” he said.
雅加达宣传多元主义和宽容的研究中心——瓦希德学会(Wahid Institute)的艾哈迈德·苏艾迪(Ahmad Suaedy)在提到犹太人屠杀教育时说，印尼是一个相当不敏感的地方。他说，这其中的一个原因是，“教育领域目前受到宗教保守主义人士的把持”。
Before taking on the challenge of raising awareness in the wider region, the Hong Kong center is planning an exhibition by the Israeli artist and Holocaust survivor Sara Atzmon in Hong Kong early next year, with a view to taking the show to Indonesia or other parts of Asia possibly at a later date.
在更广泛的区域提高相关认识之前，香港犹太大屠杀及宽容中心正在策划在明年年初为犹太大屠杀幸存者、以色列艺术家萨拉·阿茨蒙(Sara Atzmon)在香港举办展览，并打算在晚些时候把这次展览带到印尼或亚洲其他地方。
The center has also been working with Yad Vashem, the Jerusalem-based center for Holocaust research and education, and with Steven Spielberg’s Shoah Foundation, to make educational material available to Hong Kong students.
香港犹太大屠杀及宽容中心还在与从事相关研究和教育工作的以色列犹太大屠杀纪念馆(Yad Vashem)、以及史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的大屠杀基金会(Shoah Foundation)合作，目的是让香港学生可以获得教学材料。
The Shoah Foundation in particular has opened access to its IWitness online archive to the Hong Kong center and affiliated teachers. The archive of testimonials by Holocaust survivors, containing more than 52,000 recordings in 32 languages, from 56 countries, is now available at two Hong Kong secondary schools, including Elsa High, the city’s Jewish high school where the center has its temporary base.
大屠杀基金会专门为香港犹太大屠杀及宽容中心及相关教师开辟了进入其IWitness在线档案的渠道。这些犹太大屠杀的证词的档案，包括来自56个国家的32种语言的52000项记录，现在可以被香港的两所中学获得，包括香港犹太教国际学校(Elsa High)——该市的犹太教高中，也是香港犹太大屠杀及宽容中心目前的临时大本营。
For the Hong Kong center, it is important not only to introduce the topic to students but also to instill a deeper understanding.
对于这个中心来说，不仅要让学生们了解这个话题，还要加深他们的了解，这很重要。
Ms. Leung, who is now a student at Li Po Chun, had her first lesson on the Holocaust when she took an English literature class taught by Ms. Goldberg. The teacher used Eva Hoffmann’s memoir, “Lost in Translation : Life in a New Language,” to inspire discussions.
纳塔莉·梁现在是香港李宝椿联合世界书院的学生，她在上戈尔德贝格老师的第一节英国文学课时头一次接触到犹太大屠杀的历史。这位老师用伊娃·霍夫曼(Eva Hoffmann)的回忆录《在翻译中沉迷：新语言里的生活》(Lost in Translation: Life in a New Language)来激发大家的讨论。
In December, Ms. Leung took part in a class taught by Jackie Metzger, an educator from Yad Vashem, who visited five schools in Hong Kong to teach “Holocaust through literature” to about 400 students.
12月，梁聆听了杰基·梅茨赫尔(Jackie Metzger)讲授的一堂课。梅茨赫尔是以色列犹太大屠杀纪念馆的一名教育工作者，他访问了香港的五所学校，向约400名学生讲授了“文学中的犹太大屠杀”。
For her, learning about the Holocaust is more than just a history lesson. “I never knew,” she said, “how cruel humanity could be.”
对于她来说，学习犹太大屠杀的知识不是单纯的历史课内容。她说，“我从来不知道，人性可以如此残忍。”