MANCHESTER, England——It was that moment after the music ends. The pop star Ariana Grande had finished the encore of her “Dangerous Woman” concert, and the shrieks of teenagers and others had subsided. The stage show was over, the arena lights had gone up, and fans were clutching pink balloons that had dropped from the rafters — souvenirs from a special night.
英国曼彻斯特——那是音乐刚刚停止的时刻。流行歌星阿丽亚娜·格兰德(Ariana Grande)完成了自己“危险女人”(Dangerous Woman)演唱会的返场演唱，人群的尖叫声也平息了下来，他们当中有不少是十几岁的青少年。舞台上的表演结束了，体育馆的灯光亮了起来，粉丝们抓住从场地上方掉落下来的粉色气球，作为这个特别夜晚的纪念品。
Lisa Conway, 49, had secretly bought tickets a month earlier and booked a room at the nearby Park Inn Hotel. It was a surprise for her 14-year-old daughter, whose favorite artist is Ms. Grande. Mother, daughter, father and son came down from Glasgow, but the father and son skipped the show for a night on the town. The concert was a bonding trip, one of those markers of adolescence, and a small, tentative step into the adult world.
一个月前，49岁的莉萨·康韦(Lisa Conway)悄悄买了门票，在附近的公园酒店(Park Inn Hotel)订了一间房。这是送给她14岁的女儿的惊喜，女儿最喜欢的艺人是格兰德。母亲、女儿、父亲和儿子从格拉斯哥来到这里，但父子俩没去看演出，而是去城里享受夜生活。这场演唱会是加深母女感情的旅行，是女儿青少年时期的一个里程碑，是进入成人世界的试探性的一小步。
Then, with the arena still tingling with the exhilaration of the music, came the explosion.
然后，就在体育馆内还涌动着音乐带来的狂欢时，忽然传来爆炸声。
“It was meant to be a dream, not a nightmare,” Ms. Conway said Tuesday morning while eating breakfast at the hotel, trembling as she struggled to contain tears. “There were children, blood, shoes, splattered all over the floor.”
“这个夜晚本来应该像一场美梦，而不是恶梦，”周二早上，康韦在酒店里吃早餐时说。她颤抖着，努力不让眼泪掉下来。“孩子、血、鞋子，都散落在地板上。”
She added: “How can I explain any of this to a 14-year-old? She hasn’t said a word since she woke up from two hours’ sleep.”
她还说：“我怎么跟一个14岁的孩子解释这一切？她睡了两个小时，醒来后一句话也没说。”
The explosion at Manchester Arena on Monday night — carried out, the police said, by a man who died in the blast — was the worst terrorist attack in Britain since 2005, with at least 22 people dead and dozens more injured. The man was later identified as Salman Abedi, 22, a Briton whose family emigrated from Libya. Although the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, the police said they were still investigating whether Mr. Abedi, who lived in Manchester, had acted alone or as part of a larger plot.
周一晚间曼彻斯特体育馆的爆炸是自2005年以来英国最严重的恐怖主义袭击，至少导致22人死亡，数十人受伤。警方称，引发爆炸的男子已在爆炸中死亡。警方后来确定了他的身分，他是随家人从利比亚移民来的22岁英籍男子萨勒曼·阿贝迪(Salman Abedi)。虽然伊斯兰国声称对此次袭击负责，但警方表示，他们仍在调查阿贝迪是单独行动，还是属于一个更大计划的一部分。他生前住在曼彻斯特。
Terrorism has its own language and symbolism, whether it is an assault against a satirical newspaper in Paris or the bombing of a luxury hotel in Mali. The violence is intended to stoke fear and to deliver a message. And it was the message of the Manchester blast that was so chilling: the slaughter of teenagers, the anxiety of parents who had been waiting to take their children home, the frantic search for loved ones amid chaos and sirens.
恐怖主义有自己的语言和象征，不管是在巴黎针对一个讽刺性报刊办公室的袭击，还是在马里一家奢华酒店的爆炸。这些暴力行动是为了引发人们的恐惧，传递一个信息。而曼彻斯特爆炸传递的信息格外可怕：杀害青少年，引发他们父母的担忧——他们在等候带着孩子回家，在混乱和警报声中疯狂地寻找自己最亲近的人。
Already, questions are emerging about whether the arena was properly secured. Investigators said the explosion occurred in a foyer, though it was not yet clear whether this referred to a public space between the arena and the nearby Manchester Victoria rail station or to an area inside the security perimeter of the arena.
人们已经在质疑体育馆的安保措施是否充分。调查人员表示，爆炸发生在一个门厅里，不过尚不清楚，这指的是体育馆与附近曼彻斯特维多利亚火车站之间的一个公共空间，还是体育馆安保范围内的一个区域。
Concert organizers said security had been tight, with close checks of ticket holders. But some concertgoers described a much looser environment.
演唱会组织者声称，安保措施非常严密，对持票者进行了严格检查。但有些演唱会观众表示，检查相当宽松。
“Our bags were searched as we were going into the arena, but only quickly,” said Caitlin McCoy, 23. “I had a secret pouch in my purse — it only had makeup in it — but they did not look into it. They seemed to be more concerned about finding alcohol than anything else.”
“我们进入体育馆时，他们检查了我们的包，但是检查得很快，”23岁的凯特琳·麦科伊(Caitlin McCoy)说。“我的包里有一个秘密的小袋子——里面只装着化妆品——但他们没有检查那个小袋子。他们似乎更关心是否有人带酒，对其他的不怎么关心。”
The concert began around 7:35 p.m., and after two warm-up acts, Ms. Grande took the stage. Once a child star on the television network Nickelodeon, Ms. Grande, 23, is known for her strong voice and, like other child stars, has sought to evolve with her fans as they grow up together.
演唱会大约于晚上7:35开始，在两个暖场表演后，格兰德登上了舞台。23岁的格兰德曾是尼克洛迪恩电视台(Nickelodeon)的童星，她以高亢的嗓音闻名，和其他童星一样，她努力和粉丝们一起成长。
Her debut album in 2013, “Yours Truly,” reached No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in the United States, and her May 2016 “Dangerous Woman” album signaled her progression into more mature themes. The title song is about wanting to be a “bad girl” as a form of empowerment — to be strong and fearless — and the album quickly went to the top of the Official Albums Chart in Britain.
她2013年的首张专辑《挚爱》(Yours Truly)曾登上美国“公告牌”(Billboard)前200名排行榜的榜首，她2016年5月发布的《危险女人》专辑标志着她转向更成熟的主题。主打歌是关于想变成一个“坏女孩”，拥有力量，强壮无畏。那张专辑很快登上了英国官方专辑排行榜(Official Albums Chart)的榜首。
As Ms. Grande finished her encore and left the stage around 10:30 p.m., the lights went up and people began streaming toward the exits. Then came what one person described as an “almighty explosion.” Some witnesses recalled smelling sulfur. A gush of air whooshed through the arena. For an instant, no one knew what had happened. Some people wondered if some of the pink balloons had burst.
晚上10点半左右，格兰德完成返场演唱，离开舞台，体育馆的灯光亮起，人们开始涌向出口。这时突然传来爆炸声，有人称，爆炸的声音“非常大”。有些目击者回忆说，闻到了硫磺的味道。一股烟雾在体育馆弥漫开来。一开始，没人知道发生了什么。有些人还在想，是不是有些粉色气球爆炸了。
At first, Ms. McCoy told herself it could not be a bomb. The pall of white smoke made her think it was a firework released after the final song, a last pyrotechnic from the spectacular stage show. “I thought a bomb would look different, sound different,” she said. “I don’t know why.”
一开始，麦科伊心想，那不可能是炸弹。那一团白色烟雾让她以为是最后一首歌之后放的烟火，是这场壮观的舞台演出的最后一个烟火装置。“我以为炸弹爆炸的样子和味道跟这个不一样，”她说，“我不知道为什么会那样想。”
When Ms. McCoy and her friend Amy Hedley had taken their seats in the upper tier of the arena, they had remarked to each other on the youthfulness of the crowd. “It was mostly teenage girls,” she said. “The average age would have been about 14.”
麦科伊和朋友埃米·赫德利(Amy Hedley)在体育馆的上层看台落座时，谈论过观众的年龄多么小。“大部分是十多岁的女孩，”她说，“平均年龄在14岁左右。”
The power of the blast shook the arena, and many people started screaming and running. Outside the hall, parents had been waiting to pick up their children. Diane Burnett, from Edinburgh, was looking for her 17-year-old son at the time of the explosion. “It was a loud bang, and then silence, and then loads of girls screaming,” she said. “You didn’t know what it was, whether it was a train crashing.”
爆炸的威力撼动了整个体育馆，很多人开始尖叫、奔跑。在体育馆外，父母们本来等着接孩子。爆炸发生时，来自爱丁堡的黛安·伯内特(Diane Burnett)正在寻找自己17岁的儿子。“那是一声巨响，然后是一片沉默，然后是很多女孩在尖叫，”她说。“你不知道发生了什么，不知道是不是火车撞了。”
Another parent, Kevin Pickford, rushed into the main entrance to search for his two daughters. “There was an announcement, asking people to leave slowly and calmly,” he recalled. But panic was overtaking the calm.
另一位父亲凯文·皮克福德(Kevin Pickford)冲进主入口，寻找自己的两个女儿。“广播里要求人们慢慢地、平静地离开，”他回忆说。但是，恐慌让人们无法保持冷静。
“Everyone was crying and screaming,” said Sophie Tedd, 25, who attended the concert with her friend Jessica Holmes. “Nobody knew which way to go.”
“所有的人都在哭喊，”25岁的索菲·泰德(Sophie Tedd)说。她和朋友杰西卡·霍姆斯(Jessica Holmes)一起观看了这场演唱会。“没人知道该往哪儿走。”
One older woman in a wheelchair was trapped in the tumult as another spectator shouted at the crowds to let her through.
一位坐轮椅的年龄稍长的女人被困在了骚乱中，另一名观众对着人群大喊，希望人们给这个坐轮椅的女人让个路。
Molly Cronin, 18, described a mini-stampede of panicked fans. “Kids were getting crushed, and we were trying to help them,” she said, noting that the timing of the blast seemed “deliberate.”
18岁的莫莉·克罗宁(Molly Cronin)表示，当时，恐慌的粉丝们基本上是在惊慌逃窜。“孩子们被吓坏了，我们努力帮助他们，”她说。她认为爆炸的时机似乎是“特意”选择的。
Outside, police officers were quickly on hand, trying to direct people to safety. “They were telling us to run, to keep running, away from Victoria station,” Ms. Tedd said. Fleets of wailing ambulances were pulling up to the scene.
在体育馆外，警察很快到达现场，努力把人们引导到安全地带。“他们让我们跑，一直跑，远离维多利亚车站，”泰德说。一队队拉着警报的救护车来到现场。
Few people, though, knew where to go. A police cordon quickly took shape. Local hotels opened their doors, offering sanctuary to the stranded.
不过，没人知道该去哪儿。警察很快拉起了警戒线。当地的酒店打开大门，为陷入困境的人提供避难场所。
Inside the arena, Louise Reid, 48, was leading her 15-year-old daughter, Patty, toward the exit when the crush of people overwhelmed them. “I turned around and then felt like hundreds of people were falling on me,” she said, describing how the power of the crowd swept her away from her daughter. “I couldn’t turn back. I felt so helpless.”
在体育馆内，48岁的路易丝·里德(Louise Reid)正带着15岁的女儿帕蒂(Patty)往出口走，但拥挤的人群把她们冲散了。“我回过头，感觉有成百上千人向我压过来，”她在描述人群的力量怎么把她和女儿冲散时说。“我回不去。我觉得很无助。”
When she reached the area where the blast had occurred, Ms. Reid was horrified, she said. Parents and others were frantically looking at bodies, trying to identify loved ones, until security guards ushered everyone out.
里德称，她到达爆炸发生的地方时，觉得非常恐惧。父母们和其他一些人在疯狂地查看尸体，努力找到自己心爱的孩子，直到保安把大家都带了出去。
Ms. Reid was one of the frantic parents, searching for her daughter. “But Patty never came out, and I refused to leave until I was forced away by the paramedics and the police,” she said. “I didn’t know what to do, where to go. I didn’t have a phone. I just kept screaming for Patty.”
里德也是那些疯狂的父母之一，她在寻找自己的女儿。“但我一直没找到帕蒂，我拒绝离开，直到被医护人员和警察强行带走，”她说。“我不知道该怎么办，该去哪儿。当时我没带电话。我只能不停地呼喊帕蒂的名字。”
Three hours passed before the police found Patty at a nearby hotel. “Three hours of not knowing whether my daughter was dead or alive,” Ms. Reid said, with tears streaming down her cheeks as she sat in the home of a resident near the arena.
三个小时后，警察在附近的一个酒店找到了帕蒂。“我有三个小时不知道女儿的死活，”里德说。她在体育馆附近一个居民家中坐着讲述这些时，眼泪不停地从脸颊上往下流。
“How do we go back to normal after this?” she asked. “The tragedy shows that this can happen anywhere, at any time.”
“经过这件事，我们怎么回到正常的状态？”她问道。“这场悲剧表明，这种事可能会在任何时候、在任何地方发生。”