The killing of a young Chinese woman and the wounding of her French husband by a man with a sword in Beijing on Thursday refocused the country’s attention on one of the Chinese capital’s most famous districts, an increasingly upscale place known for shopping, eating and drinking, but sometimes tinged with an edge of crime and violence.
周四，北京一名男子持刀杀害了一名年轻的中国女子，并刺伤其法国丈夫。这起案件再次让全国关注起首都的一片著名地区。那里以购物和饮食而闻名，近年来越发高档，却有时候会触及罪案与暴力活动。
The district, Sanlitun, inside the eastern stretch of the city’s Third Ring Road, was once a village. Its name comes from its location — three Chinese miles, san li, or about one English mile, outside the former city wall. It became a residential and diplomatic quarter in the 1960s and ’70s. Later, as China opened up, it became the site of foreign exchange stores and some of Beijing’s first Western-style bars.
该地区名为“三里屯”，位于北京的东三环里面，曾是一座乡村，因在老城墙以外三里路而得名。在六七十年代，这里成了一片住宅与外交使馆区。后来，随着中国的逐步开放，这里变成了外汇店与北京首批西式酒吧的聚集地。
While there is dispute over the first bar to open in Sanlitun, China Newsweek and Southern Weekend identified it as Coffee Coffee, which opened in 1995. Subsequently, bars opened on streets in both the north and south sides of the Sanlitun neighborhood. Young Chinese and foreigners gathered there to drink and dance in bars that were famous for cheap and sometimes even counterfeit liquor.
关于哪家是开在三里屯的第一个酒吧，存在一定的争议，然而《中国新闻周刊》与《南方周末》均认为是开业于1995年的“咖啡咖啡”。在那之后，不少酒吧陆续在三里屯的北侧和南侧冒出来。中外年轻人会聚集在那里喝酒跳舞。那些酒吧以售卖廉价酒出名，有时候甚至是假酒。
A decade later, as Beijing was preparing for the 2008 Summer Olympics, the city began redeveloping the area. Some of the bars were torn down to build gleaming new shopping complexes like Taikoo Li Sanlitun, previously known as Sanlitun Village. The “village” from the earlier name typically was not translated into Chinese, as the word carries rustic connotations that clash with the mall’s image of sophisticated modern consumerism. The outdoor mall has huge Adidas, Apple, Nike and Uniqlo stores.
10年后，在为2008年的夏季奧林匹克运动会作准备期间，北京开始重新开发该区。部分酒吧被拆除，原址用来兴建亮眼的新购物中心，比如三里屯太古里。这里原名为三里屯Village，其中的“village”一般不会翻译成中文，因为这个字眼带有乡下的意思，与这座商场精致时髦的消费主义形象不协调。这座室外购物中心拥有阿迪达斯(Adidas)、苹果(Apple)、耐克(Nike)和优衣库(Uniqlo)的大型店铺。
The Uniqlo outlet became a national topic after a video of two people having sex in a dressing room circulated widely online last month. The assault on Thursday happened in the courtyard in front of the store, which is often filled with shoppers and tourists taking photographs.
上月，一段内容为两人在优衣库试衣间性爱的视频在网上广泛传播，那家店铺由此成为了全国热议的话题。周四的袭击案发生在优衣库商店前的广场，那里经常挤满顾客与拍照的游客。
The Apple store, particularly the area outside its doors, has been the scene of scuffles between scalpers and staff members when new products are released, such as the iPad 2 in 2011 and the iPhone 4S in 2012.
苹果商店，特别是它门前的那片地方，不时会在新品发售期间上演黄牛党与店员之间的冲突，比如2011年iPad 2和2012年iPhone 4S发售时。
A recent article in China Newsweek examined an entire night in the neighborhood, conveying a wild, exhausting and sometimes grim experience.
《中国新闻周刊》在最近的一篇文章中检视了三里屯的一整夜，传达了一种疯狂、疲倦又带有些许灰暗的体验。
“Sometimes you can feel all of Sanlitun is sinking into exhaustion,” it said. “Foreigners and Chinese alike are talking about the same topics: pollution, housing and the price of things.”
“有时你能隐隐感受到整个三里屯陷入疲惫，”文章写道。“外国人也在聊和中国人一样的话题：雾霾、房子和物价。”
The article said the district had “Beijing’s longest night,” where foreigners and Chinese party until morning. “By morning the Sanlitun taxi drivers will take the crowds away,” it continued. “They witness all kinds of vomit, fantastic crying and strange screaming.”
文中指出，那里“拥有全北京最长的夜晚”，外国人跟中国人狂欢到天亮。“凌晨，在三里屯趴活的出租司机会带走这里的人群，”文章还写道。“他们见证了各式各样的呕吐、千奇百怪的痛哭和莫名其妙的尖叫。”