Gregory Berns wasn’t sure if his pug Newton really loved him. Newton wagged his tail and gave kisses, but that wasn’t enough. Berns, a neuroscientist, wanted hard data. He also hoped to uncover “what makes for a strong dog-human bond” and how that might improve canine welfare. So he built a special M.R.I. machine, and trained dogs to lie still inside it, allowing him to study their brains. Though the results may seem obvious to dog lovers (that humans and dogs experience emotions similarly), they’re not a given for science. Berns’s book is a beautiful story about dogs, love and neurology that shows how nonhuman relationships are inspiring researchers to look at animals in new ways, for their benefit and ours.
格雷戈里·伯恩斯(Gregory Berns)不确定他的哈巴狗牛顿(Newton)是否真的爱他。牛顿经常对他摇尾巴，亲吻他，但这些还不够。作为神经学家，伯恩斯想要更坚实的数据。他还想找出“狗和人类之间强烈情感联系的原因”，以及那种联系对改善犬类身心健康的作用。所以他制造了一台特殊的磁共振成像机，训练小狗安静地躺在里面，以便研究它们的大脑。虽然对爱狗人士来说，研究结果是显而易见的（人类和狗经历类似的情绪），但从科学的角度讲，它们还不是既定事实。伯恩斯的书是关于狗、爱和神经学的美丽故事，展示出非人类关系如何激发研究者们从新的角度看待动物，以造福动物和人类。
It’s baffling that animals have been an essential part of our lives for millenniums, yet, scientifically speaking, we know little about them. Researchers have long studied animals in the wild to learn how they interact, or in laboratories to see what they can teach us about human behavior and disease. But there’s been little focus on animals for the sake of understanding their inner workings, and even less on our relationships with them. Now the birth of fields like anthrozoology, the study of ­human-animal interactions, is changing that, and this shift is showing in books as well.
几千年来，动物一直是我们生活的重要组成部分，但令人不解的是，从科学的角度讲，我们对它们知之甚少。长期以来，研究员们在野外研究动物是如何沟通的，或者在实验室里通过动物研究人类的行为和疾病。但是对动物的关注极少是为了理解它们的内在情况，对人类与动物关系的关注更是少之又少。如今出现的一些新学科，比如人与动物关系学，正在改变这种情况，这种改变在一些书中也得到了体现。
Animal books are often either memoirs that tell stories of people and their pets (like “Marley & Me,” by John Grogan) or idea-driven books about specific areas of animal-related science (“Inside of a Dog,” by Alexandra Horowitz). There’s nothing wrong with these books. I adore many of them. But I often wish more titles blended those categories into something I’d call narrative animal science writing: a genre combining rich storytelling with science to explain animals, the roles they play in our lives and we in theirs. Berns’s book does this. So does “What the Dog Knows,” by Cat Warren.
关于动物的书通常是讲述人和宠物之间故事的回忆录（比如约翰·格罗根[John Grogan]的《马利和我》[Marley & Me]），或者是在某些与动物相关的具体科学领域内提出观点的书（比如亚历山德拉·霍罗威茨[Alexandra Horowitz]的《一只狗的内心》[Inside of a Dog]）。这些书没什么问题。其中很多书我都很喜欢。但是我经常希望能有更多书把这些类别结合起来，写一些我称为叙述性动物科学的内容：既有丰富的故事，又用科学解释动物们的行为以及我们在彼此生活中的角色。伯恩斯的书做到了这一点。卡特·沃伦(Cat Warren)的《狗所知道的东西》(What the Dog Knows)也是如此。
Warren, a science journalism professor at North Carolina State University, never dreamed of becoming a cadaver dog handler, searching woods and rubble for dead bodies. She just wanted a new German shepherd puppy after the death of her saintly dog Zev. What she got was Solo: “a maniacal clown,” loving and intensely smart, but “an unpredictable sociopath with other dogs.” After Warren’s vet warned her Solo was en route to being dangerous, people recommended acupuncture and obedience trainers; Warren thought agility work might help. Nothing did.
沃伦是北卡罗来纳州立大学的科学新闻学教授，她从没想过成为一名寻尸犬训练员，在树林和瓦砾中寻找死尸。在她善良的小狗泽夫(Zev)死后，她只想要一只新的德国牧羊犬。结果她得到了索洛(Solo)：“一个躁狂的小丑”，它富有爱心，特别聪明，但是“出人意料地不爱跟其他狗交往”。兽医警告说索洛会变得很危险，别人建议采用针灸疗法或请人驯服，沃伦认为敏捷性活动可能有用。结果什么都没用。
In too many cases, dogs like Solo end up in shelters (or worse) because they roam or fight or tear up furniture. Fortunately, Warren understood behavior issues are rarely the dog’s fault. They often just mean humans haven’t found the right way to channel their pet’s energy. After a trainer mentioned cadaver dog work as an option for Solo, Warren entered a world she knew nothing about.
在大多数情况下，像索洛这样的狗会沦落到收容所里（甚至更糟的境地），因为它们到处乱跑，打架，撕咬家具。幸运的是，沃伦知道行为问题很少是狗本身的问题。通常是因为主人没有找到释放宠物能量的正确途径。一个训练员提到，寻尸工作也许能解决索洛的问题，从此沃伦进入了一个她之前完全不了解的世界。
“What the Dog Knows” is a fascinating, deeply reported journey into scent, death, forensics and the amazing things dogs can do with their noses: sniffing out graves, truffles, bedbugs, maybe even cancer. But it’s also a moving story of how one woman transformed her troubled dog into a loving companion and an asset to society, all while stumbling on the beauty of life in their searches for death. “I never thought death could have an upside,” Warren writes. “I certainly never expected a dog to point that out to me.”
《狗所知道的东西》是本非常吸引人的书，它详细介绍了气味、死亡、取证以及狗鼻子能做的很多神奇的事情：嗅出坟墓、松露和臭虫，甚至癌症。同时它也讲述了一个动人的故事：一个女人把一只爱惹麻烦的狗变成了富有爱心的伴侣和有益社会的动物，他们在寻找死亡的过程中发现了生命的美好。“我从没想到死亡能带来正面作用，”沃伦写道，“我更没想到，是一只狗让我看到了这一点。”