Imagine a wolf catching a Frisbee a dozen times in a row, or leading police officers to a stash of cocaine, or just sleeping peacefully next to you on your couch. It’s a stretch, to say the least. Dogs may have evolved from wolves, but the minds of the two canines are profoundly different.
想象一下，一只狼连续十多次捡回飞盘，或是把警察带到藏可卡因的地方，或者只是安安静静地睡在你身旁的长沙发上。退一万步说，这也是一件匪夷所思的事情。尽管狗可能是由狼进化而来的，但这两种犬科动物的思维完全不同。
Dog brains, as I wrote last month in The New York Times, have become exquisitely tuned to our own. Scientists are now zeroing in on some of the genes that were crucial to the rewiring of dog brains.
正如我上月在《纽约时报》上的一篇文章中所写的那样，狗的大脑已经变得和我们的大脑非常协调了。科学家现在正在密切关注一些基因，这些基因对重塑狗的大脑非常关键。
Their results are fascinating, and not only because they can help us understand how dogs turned into man’s best friend. They may also teach us something about the evolution of our own brains: Some of the genes that evolved in dogs are the same ones that evolved in us.
他们的研究结果很有意思，而且不仅是因为它们能帮助我们了解，狗是如何变成了人类最好的朋友。它们还可能会让我们了解我们自己大脑进化的相关知识：狗进化出的一些基因和人进化出的一些基因相同。
To trace the change in dog brains, scientists have first had to work out how dog breeds are related to one another, and how they’re all related to wolves. Ya-Ping Zhang, a geneticist at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, has led an international network of scientists who have compared pieces of DNA from different canines. They’ve come to the conclusion that wolves started their transformation into dogs in East Asia.
为了追踪狗的大脑中的变化，科学家首先得搞清楚不同品种的狗彼此之间的亲缘关系，以及它们与狼的亲缘关系。中国科学院遗传学家张亚平带领一个由多国科学家组成的小组对不同犬科动物的DNA片段进行了比对。他们得出的结论是，狼是在东亚开始向狗演化的。
Those early dogs then spread to other parts of the world. Many of the breeds we’re most familiar with, like German shepherds and golden retrievers, emerged only in the past few centuries.
后来，那些早期的狗散布到了世界其他地方。许多我们非常熟悉的品种，比如德国牧羊犬和金毛寻物犬，都是在最近几百年才出现的。
Meanwhile, back in China, those early dogs lingered on for thousands of years. Today, they’re known as Chinese native dogs. “The Chinese native dogs live in rural villages, helping humans to guard homes,” Dr. Zhang explained in an e-mail.
回头来看中国，那些早期的狗持续存在了数千年。如今，它们被称作中国原生犬。“中国原生犬生活在乡村地区，帮人们看家护院，”张亚平博士在一封电子邮件中解释说。
Dr. Zhang and his colleagues see Chinese native dogs as the key to better understanding how dogs evolved. Recently, they sequenced the entire genome of Chinese native dogs and compared them with the genomes of Asian wolves and modern breeds like German shepherds. By comparing the mutations in the genomes, they’ve been able to estimate when wolves and dogs diverged.
张亚平博士和同事们认为，中国原生犬是更好地了解狗的进化的关键。最近，他们对中国原生犬的全部基因组进行了测序，并将它们同亚洲狼和诸如德国牧羊犬这样的现代品种的基因组进行了比对。通过比对基因组发生的突变，他们已经能够估计出狼和狗分化的时间。
As they reported on Tuesday in the journal Nature Communications, they found that the split started 32,000 years ago. Those early dogs would have encountered small bands of hunter-gatherers. People didn’t settle in villages to farm in East Asia until about 10,000 years ago.
周二，他们在《自然通讯》(Nature Communications)期刊上报告称，他们发现狼和狗的分化发生在3.2万年前。那些早期的狗遇到的可能是小群的采集-狩猎者。直到大约1万年前，东亚的人们才开始在村子里定居，过上农耕生活。
After dogs split from wolves, their genes began to evolve in a new direction. Dr. Zhang and his colleagues were able to identify some of these evolving genes. A number of them, it turned out, are active in dog brains. (Dr. Zhang and some of his colleagues published some of these results last week in the journal Molecular Biology and Evolution.)
狗从狼群中分化出来以后，它们的基因就开始往新的方向进化。张亚平及其同事能够识别出一部分正在进化的基因。结果表明，其中的很多基因都活跃在狗的大脑中。（上周，张亚平博士及其同事将部分研究结果发布在了《分子生物学与进化》[Molecular Biology and Evolution]杂志上。）
Some of the genes that evolved early in dog evolution are involved in smell or hearing. Others are active in a region called the prefrontal cortex, where mammals make decisions about how to behave. Some genes are involved in growing connections between neurons. One gene, called SLC6A4, transports a neurotransmitter called serotonin into neurons.
狗早期进化出的一部分基因涉及嗅觉或者听觉。另一些则活跃在一个叫做前额皮质的区域，哺乳动物就是在这个区域作出如何表现的决定。一些基因还涉及神经元之间不断增加的联系。一个名为SLC6A4的基因负责将一种叫做血清素的神经递质送入神经元。
The results offer some tantalizing hints about how wolves first turned doglike. “The conventional view is that the hunter-gatherers go out and get a puppy,” said Chung-I Wu of the University of Chicago, an author of the Nature Communications study. If humans actually did breed early dogs this way, then dogs would have descended from a very small population.
研究结果给狼如何开始向狗演化的问题提供了一些试探性提示。《自然通讯》那篇论文的合著者、芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的吴仲义(Chung-I Wu)称，“传统的看法是狩猎-采集者从外面带回了一只狗崽。”如果这的确是人类繁育出早期狗的方法，狗的祖先就只能是一个很小的群体。
That’s not what Dr. Wu and his colleagues have found, though. Instead, it appears that a large population of wolves started lingering around humans — perhaps scavenging the carcasses that hunters left behind.
然而，吴仲义博士及其同事的研究结果并非如此。相反，过程的开端似乎是一大群狼开始在人类生活区停留，或许是为了搜寻人类猎手留下的动物尸体。
In this situation, aggressive wolves would have fared badly, because humans would kill them off. Mellower wolves, by contrast, would thrive. If this notion turns out to be true, it means that we didn’t domesticate wolves — they domesticated themselves. SLC6A4 may have played a crucial part in this change, because serotonin influences aggression.
在这种情况下，攻击性强的狼可能不会有什么收获，因为人类会杀死它们。只有那些比较温驯的狼才能存活下来。如果这个想法得到验证的话，那就意味着并不是我们驯化了狼，而是狼自己驯化了自己。SLC6A4基因或许在这一转变中起到了关键作用，因为血清素会影响攻击性。
To test these ideas, Dr. Zhang and his colleagues are gathering DNA from more dogs and wolves. They also hope to collaborate with cognitive scientists to see how variants of genes like SLC6A4 affect the behavior of dogs today. Their results may also help explain human evolution, because Dr. Zhang and his colleagues found that some of the same genes that evolved in dog brains, such as SLC6A4, also experienced natural selection in human brains.
为了验证这些想法，张亚平及其同事正在收集更多狗和狼的DNA。他们还希望能与认知科学家合作，以便了解SLC6A4等基因的变种会对现代狗的行为产生怎样的影响。他们的研究结果也可能会有助于解释人类进化，因为张亚平博士及其同事发现，一些在狗脑中进化的基因，比如SLC6A4，也在人类大脑中经历了自然选择。
“Humans have had to tame themselves,” said Adam Boyko of Cornell University, one of Dr. Zhang’s collaborators on the Molecular Biology and Evolution study. “The process is probably similar to dogs — you have to tolerate the presence of others.”
康奈尔大学(Cornell University)的亚当·博伊科 (Adam Boyko)是张亚平博士发表在《分子生物学与进化》上的那项研究的合作者之一，他称，“人类也得驯服自己。这一过程很可能和狗类似，你得学会容忍别人的存在。”