Donald Trump relentlessly attacked Hillary Clinton over trade and her private email server during their fiery first debate Monday night, often brusquely interrupting her, while Clinton portrayed Trump as unqualified for the presidency and lacking facts to back up his arguments.
周一晚上，在两人的第一场激烈辩论中，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)不断就贸易和私人邮件服务器问题向希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)发起攻击，而克林顿则将特朗普描绘成一个没有资格担任总统的人，认为其观点缺乏事实支撑。
After initially approaching Clinton with uncharacteristic restraint, even making clear to her that he would address her as “secretary,” Trump confronted her aggressively. He noted that her husband, Bill Clinton, signed the North American Free Trade Agreement into law and accused her of wanting to approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
在一开始，特朗普一反常态地表现出了克制，甚至向她表明自己会称呼她为“国务卿”，但后来就发起了凶狠的攻势。他提到她的丈夫比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)签署了《北美自由贸易协定》（North American Free Trade Agreement，简称NAFTA），并指责她打算批准《跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）。
“NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever signed everywhere,” Trump said, invoking a pact that is deeply unpopular in several swing states, and then added that the Trans-Pacific Partnership “will be almost as bad.” After Clinton said she had opposed the trade deal, Trump interjected and, raising his voice, talked over her.
“NAFTA是全世界有史以来最烂的贸易协议，”特朗普说，他提到的这个协定在几个摇摆州极不受欢迎，此外还说TPP“差不多一样烂”。克林顿表示她反对这项贸易协议后，特朗普开始插话，并且提高嗓门压过她的声音。
“You called it the gold standard,” he said, nearly shouting.
“你说它是金本位来着，”他用几乎是喊叫的声音说道。
Clinton, in a measured tone and with a tight smile, responded with a harsh rejoinder of her own. “Donald, I know you live in your own reality, but that is not the facts,” she said.
克林顿带着紧绷的笑容，用谨慎的口吻做出了一个尖锐的反驳。“唐纳德，我知道你活在你自己的现实里，但这不是事实，”她说。
Trump hurled so many accusations at Clinton — and with such fervor that he frequently had to sip water — that she found herself saying at one point, “I have a feeling that by the end of this evening, I’m going to be blamed for everything that’s ever happened.”
特朗普向克林顿发起了太多的指责——而且因为太过卖力，要不断地喝水——以至于她一度表示，“我有一种感觉，今晚这样发展下去，到最后这世上发生过的所有事情都要怪到我头上。”
“Why not?” Trump shot back.
“不对么？”特朗普回道。
“Why not? Yeah, why not,” Clinton replied. “You know, just join the debate by saying more crazy things.”
“不对么？是啊，有什么不对，”克林顿说。“就这样在辩论里说些疯言疯语吧。”
The debate was like no other in the television era: The first female presidential nominee of a major party facing off against an alpha male businessman with no political experience, both of them world-famous and both of them deeply unpopular, with a potential record-setting audience of 100 million watching and hoping to see their preferred candidate blow the other to smithereens.
这场辩论在电视时代是独一无二的：有史以来第一位得到主要政党提名的女性，和毫无从政经验的商界大男人分庭抗礼。两人都是世界知名的人物，都非常不受欢迎，而这场辩论有望创下一亿人的收视纪录，观众都希望自己支持的候选人把对方撕成碎片。
The opening seconds were almost surreal. For months, Clinton has portrayed Trump as nothing less than an enemy of the republic, a demagogue who traffics in racism, sexism, xenophobia and a bizarre adoration for President Vladimir Putin of Russia, while Trump has relished calling her “crooked Hillary” and reveled in his supporters’ chanting “lock her up.” But after being introduced by the moderator, Lester Holt of NBC News, Clinton and Trump strode across the stage toward each other, shook hands and even smiled.
开场那一瞬恍如梦境。几个月来，克林顿把特朗普描绘成共和国的敌人，一个用种族歧视、性别歧视、排外情绪来蛊惑人心的政棍，还对俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)有一种奇异的喜爱，而特朗普则兴致勃勃地称她为“奸人希拉里”，陶醉地听着支持者高喊“把她关起来”。但是，在NBC新闻的主持人莱斯特·霍尔特(Lester Holt)介绍出场后，克林顿和特朗普面对面走向舞台中央握手，甚至还带着微笑。
“How are you, Donald?” Clinton said.
“还好吗，唐纳德，”克林顿说。
“Good, Hillary,” he replied.
“挺好，希拉里，”他答道。
Seeing them side by side after so much rancor was a spellbinding moment in American politics. No one watching across the country, or across the world, knew what would happen next.
看到两个人经过连场恶斗后站在一起，可以说是美国政治的一个迷人的瞬间。全美国乃至全世界的观众，谁也不知道接下来会发生什么。
Clinton, taking the first question, got off to a confident start: Asked by Holt why she would be better at creating jobs, she said she would support small businesses, working parents, equal pay for women and paid family leave. Trump was steady as well, sounding familiar themes about cutting taxes and stopping auto manufacturers and other companies from moving jobs overseas. He also said that “Hillary and I agree on child care,” but parted ways on other topics.
回答第一个问题的克林顿显得信心十足：霍尔特问她为什么认为自己更擅长创造就业，她说她会支持小商户、在职父母、女性同工同酬以及带薪家事假。特朗普的起步也很稳，提出了一些熟悉的主题，如减税，止住汽车制造商和其他企业将工作岗位转至海外。他还说“希拉里和我在儿童保育上是有共识的”，但在其他问题上存在争议。
Clinton assailed Trump’s economic policies as favoring wealthy Americans, calling them “trumped-up, trickle-down,” and then made the first of several attempts to bait Trump into an overreaction. She said he got a $14 million loan from his father to start his business and asserted that he “really believes the more you help wealthy people, the better off we’ll be.”
克林顿指责特朗普的经济政策是在偏袒富有的美国人，称之为“生造的下渗”经济（“生造”为trumped-up，亦可理解为“特朗普版的下渗经济”——译注），随后试图诱使特朗普出现过激反应——这是她当晚第一次设下类似的圈套。她说他从父亲那里得到一笔1400万美元的借款，用以开创自己的生意，并断言他“真的相信给富人提供越多的帮助，我们的境遇就越好。”
Trump responded simply that it was “a very small loan” — a sign that he had been prepared to be careful about attacking Clinton.
特朗普轻描淡写地回应说，那只是“很小的一笔贷款”——这表明他事先有准备，在攻击克林顿时会谨慎行事。
Clinton also poked at Trump by saying he believed that climate change was a “hoax,” prompting him to interject, “I do not say that, I do not say that.” (He did, in 2012.) He called himself “a great believer in all forms of energy” and said the nation had too much debt to risk jobs on energy policies that might protect the environment. Then he blasted Clinton as a candidate with lots of policy ideas but no history of success or results.
克林顿还戳了特朗普的一个痛处，说他曾认为气候变化是一个“骗局”，惹得他插嘴道，“我没这样说，我没这样说。”（他以前说过，那是2012年。）他自称“对各种能源都喜闻乐见”，还说美国已经债台高筑，不能冒着让工作岗位流失的风险去推行或许可以保护环境的能源政策。接着，他把克林顿斥为一个政策主张很多，但其政策从未获得成功或取得成效的候选人。
“Hillary, you’ve been doing this for 30 years,” Trump said. “Why are you just thinking about these solutions?”
“希拉里，你做这个已经做了30年，”特朗普说。“为什么现在才开始考虑这些解决方案？”
“I have thought about this quite a bit,” she said.
“我仔细考虑了这个，”她说。
“Yeah, for 30 years,” he replied sarcastically.
“是呀，考虑了30年。”他含讥带讽地回应。
The candidates were largely left to themselves to challenge and correct each other’s facts: The moderator, Holt, was an unobtrusive presence, asking pointed questions but infrequently butting in to stop Trump from interrupting Clinton or talking over his time limit.
两位候选人基本只能依靠自己去质疑并纠正对方的话：作为居中调停者的霍尔特甚少介入其中，他会问一些尖锐的问题，但在特朗普打断克林顿的发言或超时发言时，并不经常插嘴阻止。
Trump was characteristically elastic with the truth, misstating Clinton’s views on issues like trade and job creation, but Holt rarely called him out, and Clinton had a hard time interjecting.
特朗普对事实的阐述一如既往地极具弹性，他歪曲了克林顿关于贸易、创造就业岗位等议题的观点。但霍尔特很少纠正他，克林顿也很难插话。
A revealing moment for Trump came when Holt asked him why he would not release his tax returns, as other presidential candidates have done for four decades. “I don’t mind releasing — I’m under a routine audit,” Trump said, then insisted that his financial disclosure form was available to the public, even though it lacks extensive details. Holt pressed him, saying that he was allowed to release his returns even under audit. Trump dodged the question.
当霍尔特问他为何不愿像过去40年间的其他总统候选人一样公布纳税申报表时，看清特朗普的一刻也随之而来。“我是不介意公布的——但例行审计还在进行中，”特朗普说，随后坚称公众可以查阅他的财务公开表格，尽管表格上并没有太多详细信息。霍尔特继续向他施压，说即便审计尚未结束，他也是可以公布纳税申报表的。特朗普避而不答。
“I will release my tax returns against my lawyers’ wishes when she releases her 33,000 deleted emails,” Trump said, drawing a rare burst of applause from the audience as he referred to the messages Clinton’s team deleted as nonwork-related when she turned over her State Department emails.
“如果她公布3.3万封被删除的电子邮件，我就会不再顾及律师的意愿，公布自己的纳税申报表，”特朗普的这番话引得观众席上爆发了一阵罕见的喝彩声。他指的是克林顿上交其担任国务卿期间的电子邮件时，她的团队以涉及私人生活为由删除的那些邮件。
Clinton seized on the issue of Trump’s taxes, which polls show is resonating with voters.
克林顿抓住特朗普的税务问题不放，民调结果显示这一问题对选民有很大影响。
“It must be something really important, even terrible, that he’s trying to hide,” she said. If Trump were “to get near the White House,” she continued, “what would be those conflicts? Who does he owe money to?”
“他一定是在竭力隐藏某种极为重要的，甚至是糟糕的东西，”她说。“如果让他染指白宫，”她继续说道，“会有哪些冲突？他欠谁的钱？”
Trump quickly criticized Clinton for using a private email server as secretary of state.
特朗普立即批评克林顿在担任国务卿期间使用私人电邮服务器。
“I made a mistake using a private email,” Clinton said.
“使用私人电子邮箱是我犯下的一个错误，”克林顿说。
“That’s for sure,” Trump said.
“那是一定的，”特朗普说。
“And if I had to do it over again, I would, obviously, do it differently,” she added.
“如果必须重新来过，我显然会采取不同的方式，”她补充道。
Trump would not let it go. “That was more than a mistake — that was done purposely,” he said. “When you have your staff taking the Fifth Amendment, taking the Fifth, so they’re not prosecuted, when you have the man that set up the illegal server taking the Fifth, I think it’s disgraceful.”
特朗普不愿放过这个问题。“这不仅仅是一个错误——而是蓄意为之，”他说。“当你让自己的幕僚引用宪法第五修正案的时候——引用第五修正案，他们就不会遭到起诉——当你让架设非法服务器的那个男人引用第五修正案的时候，在我看来是可耻的。”
Trump had one major task in the debate: to start persuading more voters that he has the competence and temperament to be commander in chief. That is a relatively low bar for a traditional nominee to pass, but a critical one for Trump given his history of making inflammatory and insulting comments about Hispanics, women, Muslims, people with disabilities and other groups.
特朗普在此次辩论中有一个重要任务：开始让更多选民相信，他具有担当最高统帅所需要的能力和性情。对传统候选人而言，这是一个相对比较容易跨越的门槛，但鉴于特朗普曾以带有煽动性和侮辱性的言辞谈论拉美裔、女性、穆斯林、残疾人以及其他群体，这便成了他面临的重大障碍。
He was on the attack against Clinton from the start, mostly sticking to policy differences but often raising his voice, interrupting her, and sometimes talking over her and mocking her.
他从一开始就在攻击克林顿，虽然大多数时候都在谈论政策分歧，但常常提高声音，打断她，有时还会抢走她的话头，嘲弄她。