For the eight years that she was based in Chicago, Katie Kirby happily lived by herself. When she moved to Manhattan three years ago, there didn’t seem to be any reason for a different domestic arrangement, and she contentedly signed on for a one-bedroom on the Upper West Side.
凯蒂·科比(Katie Kirby)在芝加哥住了八年，她一个人住得很自在。三年前，当她搬到曼哈顿的时候，似乎完全没有必要改变既有的居住方式，于是她心满意足地签了约，在上西区拿下一套一居室。
“I enjoyed the freedom and I’d been living alone so long, it just made sense to get my own place in New York,” said Ms. Kirby, 41, the director of communications at a public relations firm. “And it was a great apartment.”
“那时候我喜欢自由自在，而且已经一个人住了那么久，所以在纽约找个地方自己住也是很合理的，”科比说。她现年41岁，在一家公关公司任公关总监，“况且，那套公寓很不错。”
Even so, this past May, she moved to a two-bedroom in North Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with a friend, Jennifer Keene, 40, who works in sports marketing and who had also been living alone.
即便如此，今年5月，她还是和朋友一起搬进了布鲁克林北威廉斯堡(North Williamsburg)的一套两居室。她的朋友珍妮弗·基恩(Jennifer Keene)现年40岁，从事体育赛事营销，在与科比成为室友前，也一直是独自居住。
It’s true that money played a role in the decision — Ms. Kirby shelled out $2,850 a month on the Upper West Side and is now paying $2,200 — but a minor role. “It meant I’d have extra money to do the things I moved here to do: see more shows, eat at more restaurants and to have a better quality of life,” said Ms. Kirby, whose new apartment, a condo that she and Ms. Keene are renting from the owner, has a washer/dryer, a large kitchen and amenities like a doorman and a rooftop deck. “But the larger reason is that New York can be kind of a lonely place,” she said.
诚然，科比之所以决定搬家，有钱的因素在里面——她在上西区每个月要在房子上花2850美元（约合人民币17505元），而现在每月只需要花2200美元（约合人民币13513元）——不过，钱只是次要因素。“这意味着我可以省下一笔钱，用来做一些搬家后可以做的事情：观看更多的演出，下更多的馆子，享受更优质的生活，”科比说。她跟基恩租来的共管公寓里有一台洗衣/烘干两用机、一间大厨房，以及诸如门卫、屋顶平台这样的配套项目。“但更重要的原因是，纽约有时候是个寂寞的城市。”她说。
“It’s easy to get settled in one neighborhood or niche and to become less social. There are things you intend to do but talk yourself out of when you live alone. Having a roommate gets me out,” added Ms. Kirby, whose social circle has expanded to include Ms. Keene’s friends and colleagues. “And it’s nice and surprisingly comforting to have someone there when you get home from a business trip.”
“当你定居到一个新社区或住处之后，社交活动会变少，这种情况很容易发生。有些事情你可能想做，但要是没有人陪，你可能就会放弃这个想法，”科比补充道，她现在的社交圈子变大了，基恩的朋友和同事也进入了她的圈子里。“当你出差回来时，要是有个人在家里，那种感觉是很好的，而且令人意外地舒心。”
For the fresh-out-of-college transplants eager to make New York home, living in shared quarters is a rite of passage. What with the monthly tariff for a studio as high as $2,777 in Manhattan and almost $2,600 in Brooklyn, according to the real estate appraiser Miller Samuel, the young and the nestless often must resign themselves to a term of communal habitation in a cozy one-bedroom that becomes a two- or three-bedroom with the aid of a drywall partition. Peace and privacy are about as likely as a Viking stove, and many tenants count the days and dollars until they can sign a lease that’s theirs, all theirs.
对于那些刚刚毕业、渴望定居纽约的毕业生来说，住在合租房里就好比一种“过渡仪式”。根据房地产估值公司米勒·塞缪尔(Miller Samuel)的数据，曼哈顿的单间公寓(studio)月租高达2777美元（约合人民币17057元），布鲁克林的单间公寓月租也已接近2600美元（约合人民币15970元）。在这种情况下，没房的年轻人往往不得不接受某种形式的群居生活，原本小而舒适的一居室，被用清水墙硬生生地隔成了两居甚至三居室。清静和隐私，都是像维京炉灶(Viking stove)一样的奢侈品。许多房客扳着指头数日子，点存款，就盼有一天能够签下一个属于自己的租约，整套房子都是自己住。
Yet some whose W-2s easily qualify them for a place of their own — the standard metric is a salary that is 40 to 50 times the monthly rent — nonetheless want to share. They’ve found that the advantages of living solo — guests are entirely of your choosing, the mess entirely of your making to be cleaned up (or not) when you’re good and ready — are outweighed by the benefits of living with others.
不过也有一些人，从W-2税表的数字上看，他们完全住得起整租房——标准的算法是，只要薪水达到月租的40到50倍就可以了；但是他们依然想要合租。他们已经发现了一个人住的诸多好处，比如家里来什么客人、什么时候整理房间（或者干脆不整理，等到有闲心的时候再说），完全可由自己做主；但是它们比不上与人合租的好处。
Roommates provide a built-in social network and act as resident sounding board, career counselor, dinner companion, love doctor and hedge against loneliness. And of course money can’t be factored out of the equation. With two (or three) people wielding checkbooks, it means coming home to a bigger and better place than might otherwise be in the budget.
室友能提供自带的社交网络，结成居民统一战线，充当职业顾问、就餐伙伴、情伤医生，有了他们，你就不会感到寂寞。况且，钱的因素也不能完全从这个方程式里排除。有两个人（或三个人）共同分担房费，就意味着在同样的预算范围内，你可以住更大的房子。
According to an analysis by Susan Weber-Stoger of the Queens College Department of Sociology, the number of 20- to 49-year-olds who described themselves as the roommate of the head of a household, as working full time and earning at least $100,000 increased by 67 percent from 2000 to 2010-2012, the most recent period for which census figures are available,
根据皇后学院(Queens College)社会学系的苏珊·韦伯-史图格(Susan Weber-Stoger)所做的一项分析，与2000年相比，从2010到2012年，在20至49岁的人群中，将自己描述为“户主的室友”、“拥有全职工作”、“收入至少10000美元（约合人民币61444元）”的人士增加了67%。2010到2012年是相关普查数据可供查询的最近一段时期。
“When we talk to prospective clients, not everyone is desperate to live alone. I think they divide equally into the two camps,” said Kathy Braddock, a managing director of William Raveis New York City. “They’re finding they can get a lot better situation by combining their funds. Even if they have the money, it’s nice to come home to ‘Hi, how are you?’ And if you see someone else’s coffee cup in the sink you don’t feel so lonely.”
“我们跟潜在客户交流的时候，并不是每个人都极度渴望独自居住的。我觉得这两种人群是对半开的，”房地产公司William Raveis New York City的总经理凯西·布雷多克(Kathy Braddock)说，“他们意识到，只要将他们各人的资金凑起来，就能得到条件好得多的住处。就算他们不缺钱花，要是回到家时能听到一句‘嗨，你还好吗？’，也是挺好的。如果你在家里看到别人的咖啡杯放在水槽里，就不会觉得非常孤单了。”
Rory Bolger, a sales agent at Citi Habitats, has carved out a subspecialty in assembling such groups. “Increasingly, there’s a culture of people wanting to have roommates even if they can afford not to,” he said, adding that he had just placed a recent business school graduate who earned more than $250,000 a year.
Citi Habitats的销售经纪人洛里·博尔杰(Rory Bolger)在与这个客户群体打交道的过程中，已经有了自己的心得。“越来越多的人就算住得起整租房，也想找室友一起住，这已经成为了一个文化现象，”他说，同时表示，他最近帮一个商学院毕业生找到了住处，此人年入25万美元（约合人民币153.6万元）以上。
“I’m seeing this particularly with foreigners,” he said. “Coming to New York for the first time, they’re seeing it as an opportunity to broaden their experience.”
“据我观察，外国人尤其喜欢这样，”他说，“他们第一次来纽约，觉得住在合租房里是个增长见识的好机会。”
One example is Vesela Pehlivanova, a Bulgarian who for more than a year has shared a three-bedroom terraced penthouse in Midtown West with two men she met through Craigslist. “To be honest I could have afforded to live on my own, but I just like the social element of living with people,” said Ms. Pehlivanova, 28, the associate director for a social media company. “Before I moved here, I lived in London and I shared an apartment. That was why I came here with the idea of sharing.”
举个例子，来自保加利亚、现年28岁的韦塞拉·佩赫利万奥瓦(Vesela Pehlivanova)，是一家社交媒体公司的副总裁。她在房地产网站Craigslist上认识了两名男性室友，三个人在中城西区(Midtown West)合租了一套带露台的三居室顶层公寓，目前已经住了一年多。“老实说，我一个人住也不是付不起房费，但我就是喜欢同别人合租时的社交活动。我搬来之前住在伦敦，跟别人合租了一套公寓；因此，我一来到这里就想的是合租房子。”
She said that she and her roommates wanted the same things, namely “to make the most of the city and to see new faces. And somehow we fit together very well, though I suppose that’s not always the case. We share a lot. We discuss work. We discuss personal development.”
她表示，她和室友怀着相同的目的，也就是要“最大限度地利用这座城市的资源，见识新鲜面孔。从某种程度上讲，我们非常合得来，虽然我觉得我们也不总是一团和气的。我们有很多共同点。我们经常讨论工作，讨论个人发展。”
The roommates now know each other well enough that “after a day that didn’t go as planned, we kind of see it on each other’s faces,” added Ms. Pehlivanova, whose share of the rent is $1,700 a month. “My roommates will say, ‘Hey, what’s wrong?’ or ‘Are you O.K.?’ It’s important for me to have someone ask those questions.”
现在，三个人已经彼此非常熟悉，以至于“如果谁这一天过得不顺利，我们基本上都能从彼此的脸上看出来，”佩赫利万奥瓦补充道。她每个月分担的房租是1700美元（约合人民币10445元）“（每次看到我脸上的表情不对劲，）我室友就会问，‘嘿，怎么了？’或者‘你没事吧？’。对我来说，能有人问我这样的问题是非常重要的。”
Coco Videla, the executive creative director of the Village, a collective of freelancers in assorted fields, had been living on her own in Manhattan since 2003. But when she met Jorge Salazar through friends a few months ago, “It was roommates at first sight,” she said.
可可·魏地拉(Coco Videla)是一个由各行各业的自由职业者组成的团体the Village的执行创意总监。从2003年开始，魏地拉一直独居在曼哈顿。但是几个月前，当她通过朋友认识了豪尔赫·萨拉查(Jorge Salazar)之后，“我第一眼就觉得，萨拉查是个理想室友。”她说。
Ms. Videla, 39, decided last summer to trade her $3,200-a-month studio apartment in the West Village for a larger studio ($3,700 a month) in the same building, knowing that it could be converted to a two-bedroom space. “When I saw the apartment I got it into my head that I had to take it, and then I met Jorge. We knew right away we were right for each other. We’re both Latin. We both like to cook. It’s marriage without the sex,” added Ms. Videla, who likens her situation to the straight woman-gay man domestic arrangement on the sitcom “Will and Grace.”
魏地拉现年39岁。去年夏天，她决定把西村那套月租3200美元（约合人民币19662元）的单间公寓，换成同一栋楼里的另一套月租3700美元（约合人民币22734元）、但是面积更大的单间公寓，因为她知道，这套房子可以改建成两居室。“我看到这套公寓时，脑子里突然冒出一个想法——我必须把它拿下。然后我就遇到了豪尔赫。我们第一眼就知道彼此非常合得来。我们都是拉丁裔，都喜欢下厨。这就像无性的婚姻一样，”魏地拉补充道，她把自己的情况比作情景喜剧《威尔与格蕾丝》(Will & Grace)中的女异性恋-男同性恋室友组合。
“One of the big benefits is that we both love to travel, and if you’re living in New York and paying so much rent and you go somewhere for three weeks, you feel guilty because your apartment is empty,” she said. “Now we don’t feel guilty, because one of us is always here.”
“住在一起的一大好处是，我们都喜欢旅行，如果你住在纽约，支付着高昂租金，连续三周都不在家，你可能会因让公寓空着而觉得自责，”她说，“现在我们不觉得浪费了，因为我们总有一个人在家。”
Actually, lots of people are there — friends, colleagues, clients — part of the reason Ms. Videla describes her apartment as a think tank. “It’s a much richer place to live than if I was there on my own. And Jorge loves it. Before, he barely had a social life because of work.”
实际上，她家经常聚集着很多人——朋友、同事、客户——这就是魏地拉把自家公寓称为“智库”的部分原因。“如果我一个人住，生活就不会这么充实了。豪尔赫也喜欢这样。他以前几乎没有社交生活，因为工作太忙。”
And now there’s space for even more visitors, because she and Mr. Salazar, 33, who works in the luxury goods business, just moved around the corner to a $5,400-a-month duplex on Christopher Street. “The building we were in was going condo, and it was really a no-brainer that we would be looking for something together,” Ms. Videla said.
而如今，可以用来招待客人的地方甚至变得更宽敞了，因为魏地拉和萨拉查不久前拖着行李，转过街角，入住了克里斯托弗街(Christopher Street)的一套月租5400美元（约合人民币33180元）的复式住宅。“我们之前住的房子要改建成共管公寓了。我们真的没怎么多想，就觉得应该一起找房子。”魏地拉说。
Tessa Barron had her own apartment when she lived in San Francisco. What she didn’t have was a good work-life balance. With a salary she described as between $100,000 and $200,000, she could have had her own place when she moved to New York this past spring. But, eager to expand her social network, she chose to live in Park Slope, Brooklyn, with a high school buddy; in June they moved with another friend to a three-bedroom apartment in nearby Bedford-Stuyvesant.
泰莎·巴伦(Tessa Barron)在旧金山的时候，住的是自己的公寓，但她所缺少的是工作与生活的巧妙平衡。据她说，在10万美元（约合人民币61.4万元）到20万美元（约合人民币122.9万元）的收入水平下，她今年春天搬到纽约的时候，完全可以负担一个人住的房费。但是，由于迫切地想要扩大社交面，她选择了住在布鲁克林的公园坡(Park Slope)，与一名高中时代的朋友合租；6月时，他们跟另一个朋友搬到了不远处的贝德福德-斯图文森(Bedford-Stuyvesant)，住进一套三居室公寓。
“For some people, it’s their ultimate accomplishment to have a place of their own. It’s the ultimate sense of adulthood,” Ms. Barron said. “And sometimes I have to explain to people that no, I’m not in a one-bedroom with a partition. Living with roommates was a decision to be very socially active and to emphasize that side of my life. When you live with people it’s no effort. You have experiences organically.”
“对于有些人来说，能有一套属于自己的房子，就是终极的成就，是终极的成人感，”巴伦说，“有时候我不得不跟别人解释，我住的不是隔断隔出来的一居室。决定和室友生活的目的就是为了积极参与社交活动，丰富我的生活。当你和别人一起住的时候，这种事情不需要下功夫就可以做到。你自然就会增长见识。”
“I think we push each other a little,” said Ms. Barron, 28. “I’ll run work-related things past them. If you’re seeing a guy and you have questions about the relationship, a roommate can watch your interactions and make an observation. That’s really valuable. And I’m still at an age that my parents worry. I think my living with others gives them peace of mind.”
“我觉得我们对彼此有一点促进，”现年28岁的巴伦说，“我会跟他们讲工作上的事。如果你在和一个男人约会，但在恋爱上有困惑，室友就可以观察你们的互动，再给出意见。这真的很宝贵。而且我到这个年纪了，爸妈还是放不下心。我想，跟别人一起住也能让他们安心一点吧。”
The desire for roommates sometimes boils down to personality type. “I’m an extreme extrovert, so being around people is very important to me,” said Tami Reiss, who, despite this insight, planned on finding her own place when she moved here from Los Angeles a year and a half ago. “I was a 31-year-old adult person who had enough money, so why not?” said Ms. Reiss, a product manager at a tech consulting firm.
有时候，一个人之所以想找室友也是性格使然。“我是个极其外向的人，所以，总和别人待在一起，对我而言是非常重要的。”一家科技咨询公司的产品经理塔米·赖斯(Tami Reiss)说。尽管如此，一年半以前，当她从洛杉矶搬到这里来的时候，她本打算找一套属于自己的房子。“我已经是31岁的成年人了，也不缺钱，干嘛不给自己找一套房子单独住呢？”赖斯说。
But because she wasn’t seeing anything amazing in a one-bedroom for what she was willing to pay ($2,500 a month) in the neighborhood she wanted (Greenwich Village), she answered an ad on Craigslist placed by Nathan Small, 29, an executive recruiter at a public relations firm who wanted to share a two-bedroom walk-up with high ceilings near Washington Square. The two clicked. Ms. Reiss now pays less than $2,000 a month. “My roommate and I are totally buddies,” she said. “We talk about the TV shows we watch, we talk about our significant others, about work stuff and the world at large.”
不过，她花了大价钱（每月2500美元[约合人民币15361元]）住在自己想住的社区（格林尼治村[Greenwich Village]）里，却没有见识到任何惊艳的东西。于是，她在Craigslist上响应了一个征集室友的广告。广告的发布者是内森·斯沫(Nathan Small)，现年29岁，在一家公关公司担任招聘主管。他想找个人合租华盛顿广场(Washington Square)附近的一套挑高很高的无电梯两居室。两个人一拍即合。赖斯现在每个月支付的房租不到2000美元（约合人民币12289元）。“我室友和我完全就是好哥们，”她说，“我们谈论看过的电视剧，谈论彼此生活中重要的人，谈论工作上的事情，乃至世界上的一切。”  
Ms. Reiss may actually have the best of both worlds: Because Mr. Small is often away, she frequently has the run of the place. “I was able to host a Thanksgiving for 12 and could have my parents stay here,” she said. And last Passover, 14 people came. “I wouldn’t have been able to do that if I had a place by myself, because it wouldn’t have been big enough.”
实际上，赖斯或许同时享受到了两种居住方式的最大好处：因为斯沫经常不在家，她总是可以自己做主。“我可以在感恩节开一个12人的派对，可以让我爸妈在这里留宿，”她说，去年逾越节，有14个人来做客。“要是我一个人租房子，可能就做不到这些了。因为房子会不够大。”
For some, sharing space provides an on-site tutorial in self-awareness and self-improvement. “When you live alone, there’s no one around who you’re checking yourself against and holding you accountable,” Ms. Barron said. “When you live with other people you have to be considerate all the time. You’re forced to be a better person.”
对于有些人来说，和室友一起生活能让自己学会自我约束和自我完善。“当你一个人住的时候，没有人在身边做你的参照，给你督促，”巴伦说，“当你和别人一起住的时候，你就得时时刻刻体谅别人，逼着自己做一个更好的人。”
Perry Nickerson, one of Ms. Pehlivanova’s two roommates, said that he can be a little confrontational, but also pretty sensitive. “I’m very Type A and was getting upset about the way the kitchen was left after someone used it. And it made me think that perhaps my behavior was also coming into play. It’s something I’m working on now.”
佩里·尼克森(Perry Nickerson)是佩赫利万奥瓦的两位室友之一。他说自己有点冲动，也很敏感。“我有很强的A型性格，要是有人用完厨房留下一个烂摊子，我就会生气。这让我想到，我自己的行为可能有时也会惹恼别人。现在我正在改进这方面。”
Ms. Kirby and her roommate signed a year lease with an option for another year. “I think we’re hopeful that we’ll be in relationships and will be making other decisions,” she said. “But for now, this arrangement doesn’t seem like a step down, far from it.”
科比和她的室友签了一年租约，还有续约一年的权利。“我觉得我们很可能会各自找到恋爱对象，做出其它决定，”她说，“但是目前，这样的安排似乎不会改变，离改变还远着呢。”