WASHINGTON — An independent federal privacy watchdog has concluded that the National Security Agency’s program to collect bulk phone call records has provided only “minimal” benefits in counterterrorism efforts, is illegal and should be shut down.
华盛顿——美国一家独立的联邦隐私监督机构认定，国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）收集大量电话呼叫数据的项目，对反恐事业起到的帮助很“微小”，而且违法法律，应当关闭。
The findings are laid out in a 238-report, scheduled for release by Thursday and obtained by The New York Times, that represent the first major public statement by the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, which Congress made an independent agency in 2007 and only recently became fully operational.
以上认定是在定于周四发表的一份长达238页的报告中阐述的，《纽约时报》取得了这份报告。这是隐私和公民自由监督理事会(Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board)公开出具的第一份重要声明，国会在2007年将这个理事会列为独立机构，直到最近才刚刚开始全面运作。
The report is likely to inject a significant new voice into the debate over surveillance, underscoring that the issue was not settled by a high-profile speech President Obama gave last week. Mr. Obama consulted with the board, along with a separate review group that last month delivered its own report about surveillance policies. But while he said in his speech that he was tightening access to the data and declared his intention to find a way to end government collection of the bulk records, he said the program’s capabilities should be preserved.
报告很可能会在围绕监控展开的辩论中引入新的声音，表明奥巴马总统上周发表高调的演讲并不足以平息此事。奥巴马咨询了理事会的意见，也咨询了另一个顾问小组的意见，后者在上个月提交了自己对监控政策的报告。尽管奥巴马在自己的演讲中说，将会收紧对数据的访问权限，也宣称有意找到一种方法终止政府收集大量记录的行为，但是他也说这些项目的能力应当保留。
The Obama administration has portrayed the bulk collection program as useful and lawful while at the same time acknowledging concerns about privacy and potential abuse. But in its report, the board lays out what may be the most detailed critique of the government’s once-secret legal theory behind the program: that a law known as Section 215 of the Patriot Act, which allows the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed “relevant” to an investigation, can be legitimately interpreted as authorizing the N.S.A. to collect all calling records in the country.
在奥巴马政府看来，大规模收集数据的项目是有用的，也是合法的，同时也清楚它的隐私问题和滥用的可能性。然而在这份报告中，理事会对于政府此前秘而不宣的一套法律理论提出了极为详尽的批评。这套为监控计划提供支持的法律理论认为，既然被称作《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)第215条的法律条文允许联邦调查局(FBI)取得被认为与调查“相关”的商业记录，也就可以名正言顺地将其解读为授权NSA收集美国国内的通话记录。
The program “lacks a viable legal foundation under Section 215, implicates constitutional concerns under the First and Fourth Amendments, raises serious threats to privacy and civil liberties as a policy matter, and has shown only limited value,” the report said. “As a result, the board recommends that the government end the program.”
理事会的报告中写道，收集数据的项目“在第215条下缺乏确凿的法律依据，令公众产生了违反宪法第一和第四修正案的顾虑，作为一项政策对隐私权和公民自由构成了严重的威胁，而且也只显示出了有限的价值。因此，理事会建议政府终止该项目。”
While a majority of the five-member board embraced that conclusion, two members dissented from the view that the program was illegal. But the panel was united in 10 other recommendations, including deleting raw phone records after three years instead of five and tightening access to search results.
理事会的五名成员多数认同这一立场，但其中二人对监控项目是否违法持不同意见。而理事会在另外10项建议上是一致的，包括在三年（而非五年）后删除原始的通话记录，以及加大对查阅搜索结果的限制。
The report also sheds light on the history of the once-secret bulk collection program. It contains the first official acknowledgment that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court produced no judicial opinion detailing its legal rationale for the program until last August, even though it had been issuing orders to phone companies for the records and to the N.S.A. for how it could handle them since May 2006.
报告中还披露了监控项目中一度不为人知的一段历史。这份报告中，官方首次正式承认了外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)直到去年8月才发表司法意见，详细阐述监控项目的法律依据，但是从2006年5月起就开始向电信企业发出调阅数据的判令，并指示NSA应该如何处理数据了。
The privacy board’s legal critique of the program was approved by David Medine, the board’s chairman and a former Federal Trade Commission official in the Clinton administration; Patricia M. Wald, a retired federal appeals court judge named to the bench by President Jimmy Carter; and James X. Dempsey, a civil liberties advocate who specializes in technology issues.
隐私理事会对监控项目的法律批评受到了戴维·梅迪恩(David Medine)、帕特里夏·M·沃尔德(Patricia M. Wald)、詹姆斯·X·邓普西(James X. Dempsey)的支持。梅迪恩是理事会主席，曾在克里顿(Clinton)政府担任联邦贸易委员会(Federal Trade Commission)官员；沃尔德是吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)任命的联邦上诉法院法官，现已退休；邓普西是以科技问题为主要研究方向的公民权利倡导者。
But the other two members — Rachel L. Brand and Elisebeth Collins Cook, both of whom were Justice Department lawyers in the George W. Bush administration — rejected the finding that the program was illegal.
但另外两名理事，蕾切尔·L·布兰德(Rachel L. Brand)和伊丽莎白·柯林斯·库克(Elisebeth Collins Cook)反对报告中所说的监控项目违法的论断。二者都曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)执政时在司法部担任律师。
They wrote in separate dissents that the board should have focused exclusively on policy and left legal analysis to the courts. Last month, two Federal District Court judges reached opposite legal conclusions in separate lawsuits challenging the program.
她们在单独阐述的反对意见中写道，委员会只应该关注于政策，把法律分析留给法庭去做。上个月，两名联邦地区法院法官在挑战监控项目的诉讼中，分别得出了截然相反的法律判决。
Ms. Brand wrote that while the legal question was “difficult,” the government’s legal theory was “at least a reasonable reading, made in good faith by numerous officials in two administrations of different parties.” She also worried that declaring that counterterrorism officials “have been operating this program unlawfully for years” could damage morale and make agencies overly cautious in taking steps to protect the country.
布兰德写道，尽管法律问题很“艰难”，但政府的法律理论“至少是一种合理的解读，是两届政府中不同党派的许多官员出于好意得出的”。她还担心，宣布反恐官员“多年来都是在违法运行监控项目”，可能会挫伤士气，使得各机构在采取措施保护国家时过于谨慎。
But the privacy board was unanimous in recommending a series of immediate changes to the program. The three in the majority wanted those changes as part of a brief wind-down period, while the two in dissent wanted them to be structural for a program that would continue.
但理事会一致建议对监控项目立即实施一系列改革。多数派的三名理事希望这些改革措施是迅速缩减规模的过程中的一部分，而两名持反对意见的理事则希望这些变动是结构性的，而项目能继续运行。
Some of those recommendations dovetailed with the steps Mr. Obama announced last week, including limiting analysts’ access to the call records of people no further than two links removed from a suspect, instead of three, and creating a panel of outside lawyers to serve as public advocates in major cases involving secret surveillance programs.
这些建议中，有一些与奥巴马上周宣布的举措相契合，包括限制分析人员只能取得与嫌疑人相隔不超过两层的个人的通话记录，而不是三层，并建立一个由外部律师组成的委员会，在涉及秘密监控项目的重大案件中进行辩护，维护公众的权益。
Others — like deleting the data more quickly — were not mentioned in the president’s speech. And all members of the board expressed privacy concerns about requiring phone companies to retain call records longer than they normally would, which might be necessary to meet Mr. Obama’s stated goal of finding a way to preserve the program’s ability without having the government collect the bulk data.
其他意见，如更快地删除数据，在奥巴马的演说中并未提及。对于要求电信企业超出通常的时限，将通话记录保存更长时间的建议，理事会的所有成员都表达了隐私方面的担忧。奥巴马表示要找到一种方法，一方面能保持监控项目的能力，一方面又不必让政府收集大量数据。要想满足奥巴马阐明的这一目标，延长保存时间的做法可能是必需的。
The program began in late 2001 based on wartime authority claimed by President Bush. In 2006, the Bush administration persuaded the surveillance court to begin authorizing the program based on the Patriot Act under a theory the Obama administration would later embrace.
监控项目始于2001年底，当时是布什总统凭借战时权力启动的。2006年，布什政府说服监控法庭开始依据《爱国者法案》为该项目提供授权，其法律理论后来也得到了奥巴马政府的认可。