WASHINGTON — Since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, American counterterrorism officials have increased security at national landmarks and large public events ahead of major holidays or significant anniversaries, and issued bulletins calling for increased vigilance by the public.
华盛顿——自9·11袭击以来，每逢重大节日或重要纪念日，美国反恐官员就会加强全国各地的风景名胜以及大型公共活动的安全保卫，并且发布公告，呼吁公众提高警惕。
But this Fourth of July weekend has spawned particularly strong warnings about a potential attack as the federal authorities and national security experts say the United States is more susceptible now because of tactics chosen for recent terrorist strikes by the Islamic State.
但是，这个7月4日的周末，一个关于潜在袭击的警告显得尤为严重，因为联邦官员和国家安全专家称，由于伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）最近选择的恐怖袭击策略，美国目前已变得更易遭受攻击。
Officials cite an increased effort by the Islamic State to galvanize its sympathizers in the United States and elsewhere since Memorial Day and during this Ramadan season to carry out acts of violence on their own — so-called lone-wolf attacks. Those potential plots by individuals are harder for the authorities to detect and disrupt, senior American officials say, and have led the F.B.I. to put more Americans under investigation for suspected ties to terrorist groups than at any point since Sept. 11.
官员指出，自阵亡将士纪念日(Memorial Day)以来和今年斋月期间，伊斯兰国在更加积极地在美国境内和其他地方物色支持者，希望他们能自行开展暴力活动，即所谓的独狼式袭击。美国高层官员表示，这种由个人实施的潜在活动更难以被官方察觉和阻止，因此涉嫌参与恐怖组织而被联邦调查局(FBI)调查的美国人，比自9·11以来任何时候都多。
At the same time, senior American officials acknowledge that, as with many past holidays and anniversaries, they know of no specific terror plot against targets in the United States. And while militants have said in previous years that they would like to pull off an attack on a major national holiday, there has not been a successful terrorist strike on American soil on a previous July 4 or similarly high-profile day.
与此同时，美国高层官员也承认，与过去的许多节日和纪念日一样，他们不知道有什么针对美国目标的具体恐怖计划。此外，尽管武装人员前些年曾表示要争取在一次重大国家节日上发动一次袭击，但是在历年的7月4日或者类似的重要日期，恐怖分子还从未成功对美国国土发动过恐怖主义袭击。
“We’ve been through other periods of high threat, but this time is different because of the proven reach of ISIS into Europe and the U.S.,” said Matthew G. Olsen, a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center. “Even in the absence of a specific plot, there’s reason for alarm given the number of people who seem to have been motivated by ISIS’ rhetoric and direction to carry out attacks against innocent people.”
“我们此前也经历过其他面临严重威胁的时刻，但这次情况不同，因为事实证明，ISIS的势力已经渗入欧洲和美国，”美国国家反恐中心(National Counterterrorism Center)前主任马修·G·奥尔森(Matthew G. Olsen)说。“ISIS的这种向无辜平民发动袭击的言辞和指示，煽动了很多人，所以尽管没有掌握什么具体计划，仅凭这一点我们也应该保持警惕。”
On Thursday morning, the concerns of senior American officials were heightened after gunshots were reported at the Washington Navy Yard, where 12 people were killed in a shooting in 2013. Hundreds of law enforcement officers descended on the navy yard on Thursday, but they found no evidence that there had been any shooting.
周四上午，有报道称华盛顿海军造船厂发生枪击事件，加剧了美国高层官员的担心。2013年，这里曾发生枪击事件，造成12人丧生。周四，数以百计的执法官员来到海军造船厂，但他们并未发现任何证据显示这里曾发生枪击。
The Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has shown success at inspiring rather than actually directing well-planned attacks — and officials blamed the militant organization for inspiring last week’s bloody strikes in France and Tunisia, and possibly in Kuwait. That approach has shaken the confidence of American officials in their intelligence, as those roused by the Islamic State have proved more likely to act quicker than Al Qaeda militants, who communicated for several months with leaders in Afghanistan and Pakistan as they planned attacks.
事实表明ISIS可以成功地通过鼓动来发动袭击，不需要真的去指挥一场精心策划的行动——官员还认为，上周在法国、突尼斯或许还包括科威特的血腥袭击，罪魁祸首正是这个武装组织。这种策略动摇了美国官员对自己的情报的信心，因为这些被ISIS煽动的人的行动，往往比基地组织的武装分子更加迅速。基地组织在策划袭击时，通常会用几个月的时间来与阿富汗和巴基斯坦的领导人沟通。
“This isn’t like Al Qaeda, where there were networks and large-scale plots and well-trained guys,” said one senior federal law enforcement official. “ISIS is telling these guys: ‘Do anything you can. Go to an Army-Navy store and buy a knife and stab someone. Just do something.’” The official noted, however, that “the pool is much bigger than it’s ever been but it’s not nearly as deep.”
“它和基地组织不同，基地组织有自己的网络、大规模的计划，和受过严格训练的人员，”一名高层联邦执法官员称。“ISIS直接告诉这些人：‘能做什么就做什么。去军用品商店买把刀，然后去捅人。做点什么就行。’”不过，这名官员还指出，“虽然参与者比以往任何时候都多，但其组织却远没有那么复杂。”
“We have a lot of guys who don’t have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS, but it’s unclear how serious they are so we’ve had to keep on them,” the official said.
这名官员称，“我们掌握了很多人，他们彼此都没有关系，只是在网上表现出对ISIS的兴趣，但是我们不清楚他们是不是真的要做什么，所以不得不盯紧他们。”
The attention the Islamic State has received in the past year has led politicians and the news media to use the holiday as a way to reinforce their views that the group is one of the greatest threats to the United States, and to criticize the Obama administration.
ISIS在过去一年受到的关注，促使政治人士和新闻媒体借这个节日的机会重申自己的观点：该组织是美国面临的最大威胁之一，同时也批评奥巴马政府。
In a lengthy news release that included charts and graphs, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas, said the time had come for President Obama “to listen to these wake-up calls and to lay out a credible offensive strategy to defeat what is a global — not regional — menace.”
德克萨斯州共和党众议员、众议院国土安全委员会主席迈克尔·麦考尔(Michael McCaul)在一篇图文并茂、篇幅很长的新闻稿中称，事到如今奥巴马总统应该“聆听这些警告，并制定出消除这个国际性——而非地区性——威胁的可靠进攻策略”。
“I commend our law enforcement and intelligence professionals for disrupting so many plots recently, but we cannot rely on our defenses alone,” Mr. McCaul said. “Extremists are radicalizing and recruiting new foot soldiers around the world at broadband speeds, yet the administration is responding at bureaucratic pace.”
“最近，我们的执法和情报专业人员阻止了如此多的行动，我对他们表示赞扬；但是，我们不能只依靠防御，”麦考尔说。“极端主义者正在以飞快的速度在世界各地煽动和招募新成员，而政府在回应方面却一直行动迟缓。”
A chart in the release showed that there had been 28 ISIS-linked plots against Western targets in 2015 compared with 19 in 2014. Another chart said that the arrests of 55 people with ties to the group in the United States this year was a fivefold increase from last year.
新闻稿中的图表显示，2015年共有28起与ISIS有关的、以西方为目标的袭击，而2014年为19起。此外，今年共有55名与该组织有关的人员在美国被捕，在去年的基础上增加了五倍。
Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter discussed the terrorism risk, saying that lone-wolf attackers inspired by the Islamic State posed possible threats to security over the coming holiday.
周三，美国国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)在接受采访时谈到了恐怖主义的威胁，他说ISIS所煽动的独狼式袭击者，可能会对即将到来的假日的安全造成威胁。
“In the era of social media, a phenomenon like ISIL, unlike Al Qaeda of the old days, there doesn’t have to be and won’t necessarily be a command-and-control relationship between somebody who instigates an incident and ISIL as an organization,” Mr. Carter said at a Pentagon briefing.
卡特在国防部的简报中称，“在社交媒体时代，像ISIL这样的现象与过去的基地组织不同，事件的制造者与ISIL这个组织之间，并不一定也没必要存在一种指挥与控制的关系。”
“They are self-radicalized, self-organized people on social media,” Mr. Carter said. “Are we concerned about that? Absolutely, we’re concerned about it. And that has been seen in Europe, so that’s a sign that in the United States, as in Europe and other places in the world, we have to be concerned about it, and we obviously are.”
“他们都是社交媒体上自发、自行组织的人，”卡特说。“我们担心这种情况吗？当然担心。而且，欧洲已经发生了相关事件，所以这表明与欧洲和世界其他地方一样，美国也必须对其保持警惕，而且我们明显正在这样做。”