My heart broke for Steven Sotloff, the second American journalist beheaded in Syria, not only because of the barbarity ISIS inflicted on him but also because he died trying to push back against the trend in news coverage.
史蒂文·索特洛夫(Steven Sotloff)是第二名在叙利亚被斩首的美国记者，我为他感到心碎，不仅是因为ISIS对待他的野蛮行径，也是由于他在试图扭转新闻报道发展趋势的过程中死去。
Over the last couple of decades, we’ve all seen trivialization of news, a drift toward celebrity, scandal and salaciousness.
在过去几十年中，我们都看到了新闻的庸俗化，看到了报道重心向名人、丑闻和淫秽内容的倾斜。
So far this year, nightly newscasts on ABC, CBS and NBC have offered a combined total of 3 minutes of coverage of the civil war and impending famine in South Sudan, and 9 minutes about mass atrocities in Central African Republic, according to Andrew Tyndall of the Tyndall Report, which tracks such things. In contrast, the missing Malaysian airliner drew 304 minutes (almost five times as much as the Syrian civil war).
编辑廷德尔报告(Tyndall Report)的安德鲁·廷德尔(Andrew Tyndall)说，今年到目前为止，在ABC、CBS和NBC夜间新闻节目中，南苏丹内战和即将发生的饥荒的报道总共出现了3分钟，中非共和国大规模暴行的内容出现了9分钟。廷德尔报告一直追踪这些数据。相比之下，马来西亚失踪客机的报道占据了304分钟（接近叙利亚内战报道的5倍）。
That’s why this is a moment to honor Sotloff — and James Foley, the other American journalist executed, and so many others out on the front lines — not just for his physical courage, but also for his moral courage in trying to focus attention on neglected stories. He shone a spotlight in dark nooks of the world to help shape the global agenda.
这就是为什么现在要表彰索特洛夫——詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)，另一位被斩首的美国记者，以及那么多身在一线的人——不只是为他亲身涉险的勇气，也为他在道义上的勇气，因为他试图将大家的注意力集中到被忽视的事情上。他把一盏聚光灯照向了这个世界的黑暗角落，希望帮助确定全球议程。
It was a struggle for him.
对他而言，这是场艰苦的斗争。
“I’ve been here over a week and no one wants freelance because of the kidnappings,” Sotloff emailed another journalist while in Syria before his kidnapping, according to Reuters. “It’s pretty bad here. I’ve been sleeping at a front, hiding from tanks the past few nights, drinking rainwater.”
据路透社报道，索特洛夫在被绑架之前，从叙利亚给另一名记者发电邮说，“我在这里已经待了一个多星期，因为可能被绑架，没有人愿意当自由撰稿人。这里的情况非常糟糕。我一直在前线睡觉，喝的是雨水，过去几个晚上还要躲坦克。”
One of the biggest changes that I’ve seen in my career is that journalists and aid workers have become targets. Virulent extremist groups now see journalists as enemies, and subject captives to abuse and torture. For instance, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria reportedly waterboarded Foley before murdering him.
在我的职业生涯中，我看到的最大变化之一，就是记者和救援人员成了打击目标。邪恶的极端组织，现在把记者视为敌人，对俘虏进行虐待和折磨。据说伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）在杀害福利之前还对他用了水刑。
In addition, in conflict areas, any petty criminal with a gun can kidnap a journalist or aid worker and sell him or her to a group that will demand a ransom. European nations pay these ransoms, which both enrich the terror groups and create an incentive to kidnap other foreigners.
此外，在冲突地区，随便一个有枪的蟊贼，都可能会绑架记者或援助人员，然后卖给勒索赎金的组织。欧洲国家支付赎金的做法，既让恐怖组织坐地生财，又鼓励了绑架外国人的做法。
A Times investigation found that Al Qaeda and its direct affiliates had raised at least $125 million from kidnappings since 2008. That’s a powerful business model for a terror group, and it’s one reason journalism and aid work is more dangerous today.
《纽约时报》的一项调查发现，自2008年以来，基地组织(Al Qaeda)及其附属组织从绑架活动中至少获取了1.25亿美元。对于恐怖组织来说，这是一个高效的商业模式；这也是新闻和援助工作如今变得更加危险的原因之一。
Last year, 70 journalists were killed for doing their jobs, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. Over the last few years, some 70 journalists have been killed while covering the Syrian conflict, and about 20 are missing.
保护记者委员会(Committee to Protect Journalists)的资料显示，去年有70名记者殉职。在过去的几年中，在报道叙利亚冲突的记者中，约70名殉职，约20名失踪。
Most of those are Syrian, and let’s remember that the greatest danger is faced not by the Western journalists but by local ones — or by the local translators and drivers working for Western journalists.
其中大部分是叙利亚人，我们要记住，面临最大危险的不是由西方记者，而是本地记者——或者是为西方记者工作的当地的翻译和司机。
In Darfur once, my interpreter and I were frantically interviewing villagers as a warlord was approaching to massacre them. Finally, my interpreter said: We’ve just got to go. If they catch us, they’ll hold you for ransom. But they’ll just shoot me.
有一次在达尔富尔，我的翻译和我火急火燎地采访村民，当时一些武装分子正在逼近，前来屠杀他们。最后我的翻译说：我们必须得走了，如果被他们抓住，你会被用来换取赎金，而我就只会被杀掉。
We fled.
我们逃走了。
One way to honor Foley and Sotloff (and Daniel Pearl and many others killed over the years) would be for the United States to speak up more forcefully for journalists imprisoned by foreign governments — often by our friends, like Turkey or Ethiopia. Think of Eskinder Nega, serving an 18-year sentence in Ethiopia, or Somyot Prueksakasemsuk, a Thai serving 11 years for publishing articles deemed insulting to the king of Thailand.
纪念福利和索特洛夫（以及丹尼尔·珀尔[Daniel Pearl]，还有这些年来被杀害的很多其他人）的一个方法是，美国更加努力地为那些被外国政府囚禁的记者说话——这些国家常常是我们的朋友，比如土耳其和埃塞俄比亚。想一想埃斯金德·内加(Eskinder Nega)，他被埃塞俄比亚判处了18年监禁，或者想想宋育(Somyot Prueksakasemsuk)，由于其文章被认为冒犯了泰国国王，他被判处了11年监禁。
Today there are Steven Sotloffs covering war in Ukraine, Ebola in Liberia, malnutrition in India — and also covering unemployment and crime in American cities.
今天我们有许多的史蒂芬·索特洛夫，他们在报道乌克兰的战争，利比里亚的埃博拉，印度的营养不良——还会报道美国城市的失业和犯罪。
They are indefatigable and relentless. Once while I was covering the Congo civil war with a group of Africa-based reporters, our plane crashed. It was terrifying for me, but another passenger (a reporter based in Nairobi) told me it was her third plane crash. Yet another colleague on that plane was later killed covering a conflict in West Africa.
他们不畏艰难、不知疲倦。有一次我和一些驻非洲记者一同报道刚果内战，我们的飞机坠毁了。我吓的魂飞魄散，但另一位乘客（一位驻内罗毕记者）对我说，这是她的第三次坠机。当时飞机上还有一位同事，后来在西非报道一场冲突时被杀。
A special shout-out to the photojournalists and video journalists, for they often take the greatest risks. A reporter like myself can keep a distance, while that’s useless for those with cameras. My first rule of covering conflicts is never to accept a ride from photographers, because when they hear gunfire they rush toward it. Just Wednesday, it was confirmed that a Russian photojournalist, Andrei Stenin, had been killed in Ukraine.
这里要特别说一说摄影和摄像记者，因为他们往往冒着最大的危险。像我这样的记者可以保持一定距离，但对拿着摄影摄像机的人来说就毫无意义了。我在报道冲突时的首要原则是绝不搭摄影师的车，因为他们听到枪响是直奔事发地去的。就在这周三，俄罗斯摄影记者安德烈·斯捷宁(Andrei Stenin)经证实已在乌克兰遇难。
So, to Steven Sotloff and James Foley and all brave journalists putting themselves in harm’s way, whatever nationality, this column is a tribute to you — and to your loved ones, who suffer as well.
所以，史蒂芬·索特洛夫、詹姆斯·福利，以及所有置身险境的记者勇士们，不管你们来自哪个国家，这篇专栏是献给你们的——也献给你们的至爱亲朋，他们同样在承受痛苦。