When I started college in 1997, I got my first email account, as did most of my peers. Over the next four years, I sent and received countless rambling letters to friends, both off and on campus, a habit that persisted for a decade or so after graduation.
1997年，我开始上大学。跟大部分同龄人一样，我有了第一个电子邮件账户。在接下来的四年里，我和校园内外的朋友们相互写了无数封漫长的闲聊邮件。这个习惯一直持续到毕业后十年左右。
Now I can’t remember the last time I wrote or read an email of more than four or five meaty, intimate paragraphs. I can chalk up some of my letter-writing decline to my age and profession: I have a (somewhat) smaller appetite these days for Knausgaardian navel-gazing, and expend more energy writing for work.
如今，我不记得最后一次发出或读到一封多于四五段的内容丰富的私人邮件是什么时候了。我可以把自己写邮件数量的减少部分归因于年龄和职业：（不知为何）如今我对诺斯加德(Knausgaard)式的内省式写作不再感兴趣，把更多精力用在为工作而写作上。
My decreased reliance on personal email, however, may correspond with global trends. According to the Radicati Group, a technology marketing firm, business email users now send and receive an average of 122 messages per day, up from 110 in 2010. Sealing and opening all those virtual envelopes takes a toll: A 2012 report from McKinsey found that workers spent 28 percent of their day on email.
不过，我对私人电子邮件依赖的减退符合全球趋势。据技术市场推广公司Radicati Group称，如今商务电子邮件使用者平均每天发出和收到122条信息，比2010年的110条有所增加。密封和打开这些虚拟信封是有时间成本的：麦肯锡公司(McKinsey)2012年的一份报告称，上班族每天有28%的时间是花在电子邮件上。
While the numbers cannot account for how many emails are personal, it stands to reason that few sent on business accounts are — and that people are often too exhausted from the relentless inundation to compose meaningful letters.
虽然这些数据不能表明其中有多少是私人邮件，但是显然，用工作账户发出的邮件几乎都不是私人邮件，而且人们往往被铺天盖地的邮件搞得筋疲力竭，没心思去撰写有意义的邮件。
“I very rarely get a long email from someone,” said John Freeman, a literary critic and the author of the nonfiction book “The Tyranny of E-Mail.” He compared the current era, in which “everyone is overwhelmed” by his or her inbox, with his time after college in the late ’90s, “when people still did write long emails” and “there was something exhilarating,” he said, about the upstart free technology that enabled connectivity with anyone.
“我很少收到长邮件，”文学批评家、非虚构类图书《电子邮件的暴政》(The Tyranny of E-Mail)的作者约翰·弗里曼(John Freeman)说。他说，在如今这个年代，“每个人都被”收件箱里的邮件“淹没”，而90年代末他大学毕业后，“人们依然写长邮件”。他说，当时，快速崛起的免费技术能把所有人联系起来，“令人兴奋”。
If there was a golden age of the epistolary personal email, it most likely started in this period and ended sometime in the late aughts.
如果说书信体私人邮件曾经有过黄金时代的话，它很可能始于90年代末，终于本世纪头十年的末期。
Electronic mail can trace its origins to academic and military initiatives in the 1960s, though it didn’t enter the mainstream until the mid-’90s, with AOL Mail (1992), Microsoft HoTMaiL (its original styling, in 1996) and Yahoo Mail (1997). Broadband access, available on most college campuses and infiltrating homes around this time, helped make it more widespread.
电子邮件始于20世纪60年代的学术和军事项目，直到90年代中期才进入主流社会。最初流行的邮箱包括AOL Mail（1992年）、微软HoTMaiL（1996年的最初版）和雅虎邮箱（Yahoo Mail，1997年）。那时候，大部分大学校园都有宽带，有些家庭也装了宽带，这促进了电子邮件的普及。
In the Clinton-Bush years, email was a tool for substantive dialogue. Cellphones weren’t ubiquitous until the 2000s, and according to a report from Nielsen, text messages didn’t surpass phone calls until 2007. Long-distance calling remained expensive. Social media was not yet widely used. Paranoia over hacked, leaked or surveilled emails was low. Sending letters by postal mail had been an antiquated practice for some time. And, as the Radicati numbers indicate, work-related email and “graymail” notifications from companies were far less intensive.
在克林顿—布什(Clinton-Bush)时代，电子邮件是实质性对话的工具。直到本世纪初，手机才普遍存在。尼尔森公司(Nielsen)的一份报告称，直到2007年，短信的使用量才超过电话。当时长途电话依然很贵，社交媒体尚未普及。人们还没有想到电子邮件会遭到黑客攻击、会被泄露或监控。邮寄信件一度被认为过时。Radicati公司的数据所表明，当时，与工作相关的电子邮件和公司的“灰色邮件”(graymail)远没有如今密集。
The nonstop deluge of professional emails has trained us to ignore messages irrelevant to us (or, often, delete them without even reading). Other easily dismissed digital communication — texts, tweets, Instagrams — have also dulled our response skills. If it’s fully permissible to trash upon receipt an intraoffice email from human resources, it seems fine to blow off a friend’s check-in (or to reply curtly). Fifteen years ago, this would have been considered rude. But now, Mr. Freeman said, even people who don’t work in film “know what the ‘L.A. no’ is: that silence is a reply.”
不断涌来的工作邮件让我们学会忽略与己无关的邮件（更常见的做法是看都不看就删掉）。其他可以轻松不予理会的数字沟通方式——比如短信、Twitter和Instagram——也让我们的反应变得迟钝。如果把人力资源部发来的内部邮件直接丢进垃圾箱是完全容许的，那么不理会（或草草回复）朋友的问候邮件似乎也没什么问题。15年前，这样的行为被认为是无礼的。但如今，弗里曼说，连电影圈外人也知道“L.A. no是什么意思：没有回复就是回复”。
Still, many feel anxious hacking away the weeds of their email folders. Emma Allen, 27, estimated she receives around 200 work missives a day in her position on the editorial staff of The New Yorker. “If I don’t have zero emails in both my personal and work inboxes, I can’t sleep at night,” she said.
处理电子邮箱里的邮件仍让很多人感到忧虑。27岁的艾玛·艾伦(Emma Allen)说，担任《纽约客》(The New Yorker)编辑期间，她每天收到约200封工作邮件。“如果我的私人和工作邮箱里有未读邮件，我晚上就睡不着觉，”她说。
As a prophylaxis against insomnia, Ms. Allen curtails friendly email exchanges. “If you get into a long email game, you each write back and then you owe them, and you can’t do this slash-and-burn with emails, which I feel like I do all day and night,” she said. “My mother’s always sending me 900-word emails with 15 logistical questions. When I open one from her, I have a panic attack.”
为了防止失眠，艾伦在邮件往来中减少了表达友好的繁文缛节。“如果你进入漫长的电子邮件游戏，你就得回复每一封信，再一一表示感谢。你不能采用这种原始的写邮件方式，而我感觉自己日日夜夜都在这样做，”她说，“我妈妈总是给我发来900字的邮件，包括15个生活安排方面的问题。我打开她的邮件时，总会感到恐慌。”
There may be more to Ms. Allen’s resistance than her demanding job and a maternal excess; perhaps she was simply born too late to become attached to email. She first got a personal account in high school, but said she has consistently engaged in lengthy emails with only one friend. By the time she arrived in college, in 2006, texting and social media had begun to conquer email.
艾伦对邮件的排斥可能不只源于苛刻的工作和过分关爱的母亲。也许只是因为她生得太晚，没有赶上依赖电子邮件的那个年代。她上高中时开设了第一个私人电邮账户，但她说她只和一位朋友不断互通长邮件。2006年她上大学时，短信和社交媒体已经开始超越电子邮件。
“When something happens to me, I’ve already told everyone over 16 different modes of communication,” she said.
“我但凡遇到点新鲜事，就已经通过16种方式告诉了所有人，”她说。
Yet even members of the older generation have curbed their long email output. “Among us AARP-ers, emails have gotten much shorter but, if anything, more numerous: confirmations, cancellations, etc.,” said Daniel Menaker, 73, a writer and longtime book editor and publisher who has also worked on The New Yorker’s editorial staff, albeit in an email-less era before Ms. Allen’s time. (Based on how many personal emails she deleted — more than 31,000 — Hillary Clinton may agree with his assessment on quantity.)
但是，甚至连老一辈人写长邮件的数量也在减少。“对我们这些美国退休人员协会(AARP)的成员来说，如今的电子邮件短了很多，但是数量多了：比如确认邮件和取消邮件等等，”73岁的丹尼尔·梅纳克(Daniel Menaker)说。他是作家、资深图书编辑和出版人，也是《纽约客》的编辑，不过他开始当编辑比艾伦早得多，当时还没有电子邮件（希拉里·克林顿[Hillary Clinton]说自己删了3.1万多封私人邮件，所以她可能会赞同梅纳克对邮件数量增加的判断）。
“People of my age tend to use the phone, reflexively, more than younger people do,” he continued. “It’s habit. My kids will respond to a text sooner than an email and both of those much sooner than a phone message.”
“我这个年龄的人比年轻人更喜欢打电话，这是一种本能反应，”他接着说道，“它是一种习惯。我的孩子们回短信的速度比回电子邮件快。不过，那两者都比回复电话留言快得多。”
When younger people do compose emails, it tends to be on a tiny keyboard, with error-prone autocorrect, lowering literary standards. “It’s not often I’m sitting at my computer responding,” Ms. Allen said.
年轻人写邮件大多是在小键盘上，它配备自动更正功能，很容易出错，降低了邮件的文字水准。“我很少坐在电脑前回复邮件，”艾伦说。
Instead of easing into a desk chair to write a long letter at a computer, we’ve grown accustomed to the instantly gratifying, choppy bursts of texting (frequently while walking or dictating into the phone) and instant messaging.
我们不是慢慢坐到书桌前，在电脑上写一封长邮件，而是习惯于马上发出支离破碎的短信或即时消息（经常是一边走一边写或者对着电话听写）。
As Nicholas Carr has argued in his book “The Shallows,” smartphones and the Internet have harmed our ability to sustain attention, a theory Mr. Freeman seconds.
正如尼古拉斯·卡尔(Nicholas Carr)在《肤浅的东西》(The Shallows)一书中所述，智能手机和互联网降低了我们保持注意力的能力。弗里曼赞同这种看法。
“With the smartphone, you’re toggling between so many applications,” Mr. Freeman said. “If you just back up 30, 40 years and think about a person at a desk with a typewriter and a phone that doesn’t ring that often and mail that comes in twice a day, there are so many forms of distraction now. People are becoming more reactive, and within that context, the concentration required to write a longer, thoughtful email isn’t around.”
“你在智能手机上的各种应用程序之间不断切换，”弗里曼说，“想想三四十年前，一个人坐在书桌前，桌上只有一台打字机和一部不经常响的电话，一天收到两封邮件，如今让人分心的东西太多了。人们需要回应太多东西，在这种情况下，很难集中注意力撰写经过深思熟虑的长邮件。”
It was easier even at the turn of the 21st century, when the Internet was primarily text-based; about the best audiovisual entertainment you could hope for was a 3-D rendered animation of a dancing baby. Tabbed browsing didn’t become a function of the Mozilla browser until 2002, and of Internet Explorer only in 2005. Before then, running more than one app simultaneously required opening additional windows, which are less disruptive than an array of enticing tabs at the top of the screen.
就算在本世纪初，保持注意力也更容易一些。当时互联网上的内容主要是文本，你能得到的最好的视听娱乐是一个跳舞婴儿的三维动画。谋智(Mozilla)浏览器直到2002年才有了在新标签页打开网页的功能，IE浏览器直到2005年才有这个功能。在那之前，同时运行多个应用程序需要打开多个窗口，与屏幕上方那一排诱人的标签页相比，新窗口的干扰力要小得多。
Now, hunger to hear from others can often be sated by bite- and byte-size portions of a thousand different petits fours from acquaintances’ status updates, rather than email’s intimate candlelit dinner for two. As Ms. Allen said, “If you have the curiosity to get the vague outlines of what a friend has been doing, you can do it by perusing Facebook.”
如今，想了解他人近况的渴望往往是被一口一口满足的，你得品尝一千种小点心，我指的是几字节大小的熟人状态更新，而不是电子邮件那种亲密的两人烛光晚餐。正如艾伦所说，“如果你想大致了解一个朋友在忙什么，你仔细看看他的Facebook就知道了。”
(After the Sony hack last year, many people pointed out that their own emails no longer contain deeply personal information; what’s most incriminating is their Google search history.)
（去年索尼公司[Sony]遭到黑客攻击之后，很多人说，他们的电子邮件里不再包含非常私密的信息；最让他们担忧的是自己的谷歌搜索历史。）
The newest generation may be even more averse to email. “I have a nephew in England who’s 12, and I asked for his email address, and he said he didn’t have one but we could talk on Viber,” Mr. Freeman said, referring to an app that lets users make free phone calls and send free texts. “He’s completely leapfrogged over passing messages back and forth. There’s a real shame in that because there are some things that can only be expressed in something reflective and lengthy.”
最新的一代可能对电子邮件更为排斥。“我在英国有个外甥，今年12岁，我询问他的电子邮件地址，他说他没有，说我可以通过Viber跟他聊天，”弗里曼说。Viber是一个应用程序，用户能用它免费打电话、发短信。“他回复消息完全是跳跃式的。这让人很遗憾，因为有些事情只能通过深思的、漫长的文字表达。”
But even briefer, old-fashioned correspondence with his younger relatives has proved trying.
不过，结果他发现，甚至连通过较短的传统通讯方式跟晚辈联系都很困难。
“I send postcards to my niece and nephew,” Mr. Freeman said. “They never write back.”
“我给外甥和外甥女寄明信片，”弗里曼说，“他们从来不回。”