HONG KONG — A North Korean delegation wrapped up a rare visit to South Korea on Monday to plan cultural performances there during the Winter Olympics, and was met with both enthusiastic crowds and angry protests as it checked out venues in Seoul.
香港——周一，一个朝鲜代表团结束了对韩国的罕见访问，他们计划在冬奥会期间，在韩国进行文化表演。在首尔看场地时，他们既遇到了热情的民众，也遇到了愤怒的抗议。
The visiting delegation has drawn intense interest and ignited a media frenzy focusing on the North Korean singer Hyon Song-wol. Local reporters have nicknamed her the “girl on a steed” after one of her most popular songs, “A Girl in the Saddle of a Steed.”
这个代表团引起了人们强烈的兴趣，并引发了韩国媒体对朝鲜歌手玄松月(Hyon Song Wol)的狂热关注。她最流行的歌曲中有一首《马鞍上的姑娘》，所以当地记者都称她为“骏马姑娘”。
Reflecting the passions surrounding the two-day visit, South Korean activists used a blowtorch to burn a large photo of Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, and a North Korean flag as Ms. Hyon’s delegation was traveling Monday through the sprawling Seoul Station. But police officers put out the blaze with fire extinguishers before the photo was destroyed.
这个为期两天的访问所遭遇的情绪，体现在当玄松月的代表团周一路过面积巨大的首尔火车站时，韩国的活动人士用焊枪点燃了朝鲜领袖金正恩的一张大幅照片和朝鲜国旗。但警方在照片焚毁前就用灭火器扑灭了火焰。
South Korean leaders hope the North’s participation in the Olympics next month in Pyeongchang, along with the cultural events, will pave the way for warmer ties between the two countries and ease tensions over the North’s nuclear program.
韩国领导人希望朝鲜参与下月的平昌冬奥会及各种文化活动，能为暖化两国关系、缓解朝鲜核计划的紧张局势铺平道路。
The two Koreas have agreed to march together in the opening ceremony of the Olympics and to form a unified women’s ice hockey team, the first inter-Korean team ever fielded during Olympic competition. But a plan to have athletes from the two countries march under a “unification flag” has alarmed some conservative South Koreans, who fear it will distract attention from the North’s rapidly advancing nuclear and missile programs.
朝韩两国已同意在奥运会开幕式上共同入场，并组建一支女子冰球联队，这将是奥运会上的首支朝韩联队。但两国运动员在“统一旗”下入场的计划也引起了一些保守的韩国人的警觉，他们担心这会分散人们对朝鲜迅速发展的核计划和导弹计划的关注。
On Monday, Ms. Hyon continued to draw sizable crowds of onlookers and reporters fixated on her attire — particularly her black coat with fur neck wrap and black high heels — with news organizations providing live coverage of her visit. She occasionally smiled and even waved at the crowds, but she did not answer reporters’ shouted questions.
周一，玄松月仍然吸引着规模可观的围观者和对她的服装着迷的记者——尤其是有一圈毛领环绕的黑色大衣和那双黑色高跟鞋——新闻媒体对她的访问进行现场直播。她时不时地微笑，甚至向人群招手，但不理会记者的高声提问。
Ms. Hyon’s group, the Moranbong Band, is said to be a favorite of North Korea’s leader, but the band will not be performing in South Korea. Instead, Ms. Hyon will lead a 140-member art troupe that will perform in Seoul and in Gangneung, the site of the Olympic hockey and skating competitions.
玄松月所在的牡丹峰乐团(Moranbong Band)据说深受朝鲜领袖喜爱，但这个乐团不会来韩国演出。玄松月会另外带领一支140人的艺术团在首尔和江陵表演，后者是此次冬奥会冰球比赛和滑冰比赛的所在地。
In Gangneung, Ms. Hyon’s delegation stayed in a newly opened hotel, where her room cost $467 a night, the local news media reported. Under an agreement between the two sides, the South paid the cost of the North Korean delegation’s stay.
据当地新闻媒体报道，在江陵，玄松月的代表团将下榻在一家新开的酒店，她的房间每晚467美元。根据双方协议，韩国将支付朝鲜代表团逗留期间的费用支出。