A Chinese woman who won international attention for paying thousands of dollars to save dogs from being eaten is now under fire from other animal welfare advocates who accuse her of fraud and animal abuse.
一位因花费重金营救待宰猫狗而闻名海内外的中国女性如今正在受到中国其他动物保护人士的攻击。他们指责她骗捐，并有虐待动物的行为。
The woman, Yang Xiaoyun, 65, a retired schoolteacher in the northern port city of Tianjin, is best known for intervening in the annual dog meat festival in the southern city of Yulin. An estimated 10,000 dogs are slaughtered for the festival, which falls on the summer solstice. Animal welfare advocates say many of the dogs are stolen pets, trafficked illegally across China.
65岁的杨晓云是天津一名退休教师。她最为人知的事迹是远赴广西玉林，营救送到当地狗肉节市场上的狗。据估计，每年夏至的这个狗肉节上会屠宰上万只狗。动物福利倡导者说，很多狗是偷盗来的宠物，从各地非法运输到玉林。
This year and last, Ms. Yang negotiated with the dealers and butchers for the lives of these dogs, offering high sums to buy them. A photograph of her on her knees, asking a dog dealer for mercy, went viral on the Internet.
过去的两年，杨晓云在玉林出高价从狗贩子手中赎买犬只。一张杨晓云向狗贩子下跪的照片在网上流传。
During a televised fund-raiser this month, Ms. Yang said she paid 450,000 renminbi, or about $70,000, for about 1,000 dogs during her trips to Yulin the past two summers. The animals were transported to her four shelters in Tianjin, where she said she was caring for more than 4,000 dogs. She asked for 5 million renminbi in donations to pay for a new shelter.
本月在一档筹款的电视节目上，杨晓云说她两次在玉林共花费了45万元，买回大约1000只狗。这些动物被运回她在天津的四个收容点。她说她的收容点一共有狗4000多只，希望能募捐500万元，修建一个新的救狗基地。
But now, dozens of Chinese animal protection groups have signed an open letter asking whether Ms. Yang has exaggerated her achievements and demanding that she account for how she has used donations.
但眼下，数十家中国动物保护组织却联名发出公开信，质疑杨晓云夸大了她的救助工作，并要求她解释资金的去向。
“Photos and videos have surfaced on the Internet recently,” the letter reads. “They show the shelters run by Yang Xiaoyun littered with trash and overflowing with sewage. There are dogs that are starving and thirsty. The body of a headless dog is swarming with maggots.”
他们的公开信说：“在最近网络爆出的图片和视频中，杨晓云的动物收养基地垃圾杂物遍地、污水屎尿横流、犬只饥渴不堪、一只无头犬尸蝇蛆满身。”
In an interview, Ms. Yang said that the images of dead animals could not be from her shelters. She attributed the criticism to jealousy from rival activists.
杨晓云辩解说，那些动物尸体不可能是在她的收容点发现的，那些对她的攻击是出于嫉妒。
“They spread this rumor against me,” she said, “because I took in all the dogs so they can’t use them to raise money.”
“他们这样造我的谣，就是因为我把狗接走了，他们没法去要钱了，”她说。
As for the number of animals in her care, she said after the television program that the more than 4,000 dogs included 400 to 500 in a police pound in Jixian, some 50 miles from Tianjin, that she helps tend. Later, she said that the 4,000 figure referred to the total number she has taken in since she set up her first shelter in 2002. Asked in an interview for a precise count, she said that she had 1,400 to 1,500 dogs in four shelters. Regarding the discrepancies, she said, “Show me a shelter in China that gives exact numbers.”
关于狗的数目，在那次电视节目之后，她解释说所谓4000只狗是算上蓟县一个警方留检所的400到500只狗，那些狗也由她照管。后来，她又说，4000只狗其实是累计的算法。被问及准确数字时，她说，目前她的狗有1400到1500只。至于为什么前后说法不一，她说：“全国的收容机构哪家有准数的？”
Ms. Yang has drawn criticism before, concerning her rescue methods. Paying dealers to release the dogs, some say, only provides an additional incentive for the trade.
杨晓云以前也因她救狗的方式招致批评。有人说，付钱给狗贩子只会助长非法贸易。
Ms. Yang rejected such arguments. “Talk is cheap,” she said. “If I don’t buy them, the dogs will die.”
杨晓云反驳这种说法。“他们站着说话不腰疼。那些狗我要是不买下，就全死了。”
The tension between Ms. Yang and other animal welfare activists flared up on July 7, when activists forced a truck full of dogs to stop on a highway in Tianjin. The encounter turned to blows, according to Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency. The police charged two activists and two dog dealers involved in the fight with harming public safety.
杨晓云和其他一些动保人士的矛盾在7月7日激化。当天，活动人士在天津强行拦截一辆运狗的货车。据新华社报道，现场发生殴斗。警方刑事拘留了两名动保者和两名狗贩子，指控其涉嫌以危险方法危害公共安全罪。
“After the brawl, Yang Xiaoyun showed up, paid the dealers and took the dogs away,” said Chen Mingcai, director of the Chongqing Small Animals Protection Association, the group that initiated the open letter. “The local activists felt she just swooped in and took something they had fought for.”
“等事情平息了之后，杨晓云来了，给狗贩子一笔钱，把狗接走了，”公开信发起单位之一重庆小动物保护协会的会长陈明才说。“京津两地的动保者很不满，觉得他们付出了努力，狗却被杨晓云轻易带走了。”
Ms. Yang and her supporters say the activists are angry because they had hoped to use the dogs themselves in an online fund-raising campaign.
杨晓云和她的支持者说，那些动保者对她不满，是因为他们想拿那些狗去募捐。
Transporting dogs or cats without proper medical checks is illegal in China, but the law is rarely enforced. This has encouraged activists to step in, patrolling highways and stopping trucks carrying dogs.
未经检疫运输猫狗在中国属于违法行为，但该法规很少得到执行。这促使动保人士越俎代庖，自发上公路巡逻，拦截运狗车辆。
Hundreds of dogs are rescued this way each year across China, sometimes involving high-speed chases. The publicity this generates has helped animal protection groups raise money on social media sites, even though many lack the legal status of a nonprofit organization to accept donations.
每年都有成百上千只狗以这种方式被拦下，拦截过程往往伴随着惊险的公路追逐。由此产生的媒体效应有助于动保者在社交媒体上发起募捐，尽管很多人不具备合法接受捐赠的非营利机构身份。
“Every time they take in the dogs, they raise thousands in donations, and in the end, nobody knows what happens to the dogs,” Ms. Yang said. She declined to name any individuals or groups.
杨晓云说，“他们每次收容狗，都能筹集到数十万元的捐款，但最后，谁也不知道那些狗到哪里去了。”她拒绝指名任何个人或团体。
Mr. Chen questioned how Ms. Yang, whom he said he has known for more than a decade, has managed to care for thousands of dogs with few helpers.
陈明才对杨晓云在几乎没有帮手的情况下，如何照顾数千条狗表示质疑，他说他认识杨晓云已经十多年了。
Ms. Yang said that she had three full-time workers at her Tianjin shelters.
杨晓云说，她在天津的收容所里有三名全职员工。
On a visit last Friday at one of the shelters, no helper was present. The yard was covered with urine and excrement.
上周五在一个收容所看到的情况是，没有助手在场。院子里到处都是屎尿。
“The cleaner had to take care of a family matter,” Ms. Yang said, as she tried to scoop up some of the waste.
“清洁工因家中有事回家了，”杨晓云说，她边说、边试着将一些狗屎铲起来。
Hundreds of dogs barked loudly at a visitor. Many had skin ailments and were missing fur.
数百条狗对着访客吠叫。许多狗有皮肤病，有的大面积脱毛。
“To care for 4,000 dogs, you would need 15 to 20 workers at least,” said Mr. Chen, who founded his Chongqing group in 2005. “So is she lying about how many dogs she has taken in, or does she neglect them so many die?”
“照顾4000条狗需要至少15至20名工人，”陈明才说，他的重庆组织是2005年成立的。“她究竟是在收容了多少条狗这个问题上撒谎，还是由于她照顾不了，导致许多狗死了？”
He said he and some colleagues counted 300 to 400 dogs during a visit to one of her shelters last week.
陈明才说，他和一些同事上周去了杨晓云的一个收容所，在那里数到有300到400条狗。
Ms. Yang acts very much on her own, not as part of a formal organization, and critics cite managerial shortcomings like poor bookkeeping.
杨晓云基本上是个人行动，她不是任何正式组织的成员，批评她的人列举了诸如账目不清等管理问题。
After the story of her dog rescues reached an international audience, a British charity called World Protection for Dogs and Cats in the Meat Trade raised more than 70,000 pounds, or about $108,000, to help her save animals from this year’s Yulin festival. However, the charity was puzzled that Ms. Yang seemed in no hurry to retrieve the money that she said she desperately needed, said Julia de Cadenet, its chief executive.
她救狗的故事传到国际上后，一家名为“在肉类贸易中保护猫狗的世界组织”(World Protection for Dogs and Cats in the Meat Trade)的英国慈善机构募集到约7万英镑（约合70万元人民币），帮助她在今年的玉林狗肉节上拯救动物。然而，该慈善机构的首席执行官朱莉娅·德卡德内(Julia de Cadenet)说，他们对杨晓云似乎并不急于拿到这些她称之为急需的钱感到迷惑。
Four transfers were made in June to help pay for her trip to Yulin, but she did not pick up the money until July 5 and 6, more than two weeks after the festival, Ms. de Cadenet said. One last transfer was made on July 4, which Ms. Yang did not confirm receiving until a month later. After Ms. Yang returned from Yulin, she blocked veterinarians sent by the charity to check on the dogs, Ms. de Cadenet said.
该机构曾在今年6月四次转钱给杨晓云，帮助她支付前往玉林的费用，但她直到7月5日和6日才把钱取走，那时狗肉节已经过去两周多了，德卡德内说。最后一次转钱是在7月4日，直到一个月后，杨晓云才确认收到了那笔钱。德卡德内还说，杨晓云从玉林回来后，不允许该慈善机构派去的兽医给狗作检查。
The charity suspended further transfers of funds while Ms. de Cadenet and a colleague paid an unannounced visit in late August to Ms. Yang’s shelters. Ms. de Cadenet said that they found them filthy with “urine and rotting waste” and that Ms. Yang could not show them the 500 dogs she said she had rescued from Yulin. “It was clear that funds sent had not been used for the purpose intended,” Ms. de Cadenet said.
8月下旬，德卡德内与一名同事在没有提前通知的情况下造访了杨晓云的收容所，此后，该机构暂停将基金汇入杨晓云的账户。德卡德内表示，他们发现这些肮脏的庇护所“满是尿液与秽物”，且杨晓云拿不出她声称自己在玉林拯救的那500只狗。德卡德内说：“我们提供的款项很显然地没有被用在预期的用途上。”
“We remain committed to helping dogs from China and the ‘Yang’ fund remains in trust for that purpose,” she said.In the interview, Ms. Yang said she did not have an accountant. She could not produce any financial records for donations or expenditures.
“我们仍会致力于帮助中国的狗，而这笔“杨晓云基金”也会继续运用在这方面。”她说。杨晓云在访问中表示，她没有会计，也无法出示任何捐款和支出的帐目。
Peter Li, a China policy specialist of Humane Society International, said: “The first thing Yang will have to answer is how many dogs she has in her shelter now. You just cannot fund-raise for, say, 800 dogs, using an inflated number of 4,000.”
国际人道对待动物协会(Humane Society International)的中国政策顾问李坚强(Peter Li) 表示：“杨晓云得回答的第一个问题是，现在她庇护所里到底有多少只狗。比方说吧，你不能实际只有800只狗，募捐的时候却夸说有4000只。”
Mr. Li said his group, the international branch of the Humane Society of the United States, has not investigated Ms. Yang or issued any official statement on the matter.
李坚强说他所属的美国人道协会(Humane Society of the United States)的国际支部尚未对杨晓云展开调查，也没有针对此事发出任何正式声明。
No legal action has been taken against Ms. Yang. But two Chinese who run their own animal rescue efforts said that even if Ms. Yang were found to have misrepresented her activities or misused funds, that would hardly make her unique in China.
目前还没有任何人对杨晓云采取法律行动。不过，两位各自管理着动物保护组织的中国人说，就算杨晓云真的有所夸大或滥用款项，这在中国也不是特例。
“Many groups are not registered as a nonprofit so their fund-raising activities are technically illegal,” one said. “There are no audits and they don’t pay taxes. The authorities don’t look into these cases, but then they don’t stop the dog traffickers either. So we’re talking about a country where the government isn’t holding anyone accountable.”
“许多团体并没有登记为非营利组织，他们的募款活动严格来说就是违法的。”这两位的其中之一表示，“他们没有任何审计，也不缴税。当局没追查这些案子。但他们也不去阻止狗贩子。所以，在这个国家是两头都没有人管。”
The other animal rescuer, who, like the first, requested anonymity to speak freely about legal matters, said some groups, desperate for money, were tempted to exaggerate the number of dogs that they are trying to help.
另一位则说，有些团体急需资金，他们难以抵挡夸大受援犬只数目的诱惑。这两位受访者都希望保持匿名以畅谈相关法规事宜。
“If some of your dogs die and the money is still coming into your account, would you report the deaths right away and risk stopping the money, or hold back for a few more days so you receive more?” he asked.
他这么问道：“如果在钱汇入户头的时候你有几只狗死了，你是会冒着切断资金流的风险立即通报，还是等上几天，好让钱多汇点进来呢？”
Ms. Yang is “a celebrity and her name alone can help her raise a lot,” he added. Regardless of whether she cheated, he said, “she hardly deserves the death penalty. Her adversaries want to tear down a legend. They want to see her crucified.”
他又表示，杨晓云“是一位风云人物，她的名气能帮她募得大笔款项。”他说，无论她是否欺瞒大众，“她都罪不至死。不过，她的对头们想要戳破这个神话，想把她治死。”
Mr. Li of Humane Society International said that even if a few activists were found to be cheating, he was not worried about the overall state of China’s animal welfare movement.
国际人道协会的李坚强也表示，就算有几位活动人士被发现有欺瞒行为，他仍不担心中国动物福利运动的整体状况。
“As a representative of a major international animal welfare group working on animal protection issues in China,” he said, “I have to say Yang is the first rescue person whose practices have raised serious concerns.”
“作为一个在中国从事动保工作的重要国际动物福利团体的代表，”他说，“我得说，杨晓云是第一个因其行为引起严重关切的动保人士。”