The Hong Kong director Wong Kar-wai is a global art-house favorite, best known for lushly photographed dramas about romantic loss or frustration, like “In the Mood for Love.” So there some oddity in the fact that when he finally made it onto the shortlist for the Oscar for best foreign-language film, it should be with a kung fu biopic called “The Grandmaster.”
香港导演王家卫(Wong Kar-wai)在全世界的艺术电影界都受到热捧，他最为人熟悉的风格是以色彩浓郁的画面，讲述怅然若失或遭遇挫折的浪漫情愫，《花样年华》就是一个例子。因此，当他最终问鼎奥斯卡，入围最佳外语片时，凭借的竟然是一部功夫传记片：《一代宗师》，这难免令人诧异。
The title character in “The Grandmaster,” played by Tony Leung, is Ip Man, revered in martial arts circles as the teacher of Bruce Lee. But Mr. Wong, 55, said he had a purpose in mind larger than simply telling part of Ip Man’s life story: he also wanted to use “The Grandmaster” to comment on what he sees as unhealthy materialistic trends in contemporary Chinese culture.
《一代宗师》片名所指的人物是由梁朝伟(Tony Leung)饰演的叶问(Ip Man)，他在武术圈里很受尊崇，因为李小龙(Bruce Lee)就师承叶问。但今年55岁的王家卫说，他心中的目标比简简单单讲述叶问的人生故事更为宏大：他还希望通过《一代宗师》，对他在当代中国文化中见到的崇尚物质的不健康趋势发表评论。
“Over the last 30 years, China has gone through so many changes, and martial arts is basically a fading tradition,” he said. “This is something that really affects me. There are so many values that have been lost during these 30 years because no one pays attention to this.”
“在过去30年里，中国经历了很多变化，武术基本上也是一个正在衰落的传统，”他说。“这是一件真正影响我的事。在过去30年里，因为没有人关注，有太多价值都失落了。”
Though “The Grandmaster” may thus be a politically conservative film, it is radical in other ways. In a telephone interview from Los Angeles, Mr. Wong said he deliberately set out to upend conventions of plot and form in the traditional martial arts movie. Here are edited excerpts of that conversation:
尽管《一代宗师》也许会因此在政治观点上显得保守，但在其他方面却会非常不同。在洛杉矶接受电话采访时，王家卫说他有意颠覆传统功夫片中惯见的情节和形式。下面是电话采访的节选，文字经过编辑。
Q. In recent years there have been three movies about Ip Man, as well as a TV series. What compelled you to weigh in with a film of your own?
问：在最近几年里有三部关于叶问的电影，还有一部电视剧。是什么驱使你出手，自己拍摄一部同主题的电影呢？
A. All these films about Ip Man were made after we announced that we were going to make a film about him. To truly know the life of a grandmaster took me three years, traveling across China to interview different grandmasters. Somehow the others worked fast, and so they released their pictures before us.
答：那些关于叶问的电影，都是在我们宣布要拍一部关于他的片子之后才开拍的。为了真正了解一位大师的一生，我花了三年时间到中国各地探访不同的大师。不知道怎么回事，别人做的比我快，所以他们的电影上映也比我们早。
Q. What made you want to do a martial arts film in the first place?
问：最初让你想拍一部功夫片的原因是什么？
A. In Chinese cinema, the kung fu film is by far the most popular form, but I feel there are certain things that haven’t been addressed properly. Most of these films show the action. But in this film we wanted to highlight  the code of honor and legacy. Chinese martial artists consider themselves to be gardeners, and it’s an honor for them to take care of this garden, to better it and hand it over to the generations that follow. I think that’s a very important message in a time when personal achievement seems to be the only criteria of success.
答：在华语电影中，功夫片是最受欢迎的类型，远比其他类型要受欢迎，但我感觉有一些方面没有得到妥善的处理。这些电影多数都在展示动作，但是在这部片子里我们想要强调的是荣誉和传承的规范。中国武术大师会把自己当成园丁，料理自己的园子是一份荣誉，要把园子耕耘得更好，交给子孙后代。我想，在当下这个个人成就似乎是成功的唯一标准的时代，这是一则十分重要的忠告。
Q. Other than the fact Ip Man was Bruce Lee’s teacher, what made him interesting to you?
问：除了叶问是李小龙的师傅之外，还有什么原因让你对他产生了兴趣？
A. When you look at the life story of Ip Man, it’s very tragic, because he was born with a silver spoon and was not trained to be a martial artist. But he went through so many difficulties, the times were against him, and he ended up in Hong Kong alone, and he was very poor at that time. The only thing that guided him is that he stuck to his principles, to the code of the Chinese martial artist. That is  very moving.
答：如果你看叶问一生的故事，就会发现很有悲剧性，因为他出身富贵，他接受训练并不是为了成为武术大师。但他经历了那么多磨难，时运不济，最后孤身一人来到香港，当时十分穷困。而唯一引导他的是，他一直坚持自己的原则，坚持中国武术的规范。这很让人感动。
Q. When you sat down to write “The Grandmaster,” did you make a conscious decision to avoid some of the standard features of martial arts movies?
问：你坐下来开始写《一代宗师》时，是否有意识地做了决定，要避免功夫片里的一些标准套路？
A. I did not want to present a typical kung fu film, just trying to be catchy and vogueish. I wanted to be authentic, to make sure that everything is right. I don’t want high-flying wire tricks, I just want to present it as it really is.
答：我不希望呈现一部典型的功夫片，只是做到抢眼，一时流行。我想要真实，确保所有部分都是准确的。我不想吊着威亚在高空飞来飞去，只想呈现真实的情景。
Q. Did you study martial arts when you were a boy?
问：你小时候学过武术吗？
A. No. In fact, almost at the end of the film there is a scene with a kid standing outside a martial arts school. In the film it’s Bruce Lee. But it could be me, because I was growing up on a street full of martial arts schools, and I wanted to know what was happening inside, because it was so mysterious. At that time, parents would not normally encourage their kids to practice martial arts because sometimes they are associated with triads. But I was always fascinated. I’m a big fan of martial arts films, novels and radio programs. So the reason I want to make this film is to be able to walk through that door.
答：没有。实际上，电影几乎到结尾时，有一个场景是一个小孩站在一家武馆门外。在电影里那是李小龙，不过也可能是我，因为我长大的那条街上满是武馆，它如此神秘，我很想知道里面在做什么。但是当时家长通常不会鼓励自己的孩子去练武，因为有时会跟三合会扯上关系，不过我一直很神往。我十分迷恋武侠题材的电影、小说和广播节目。所以我想拍这部电影的理由是，这样就能走进那扇门了。
Q. Ip Man was born in 1893 and died in 1972. Why did you decide to focus on 20 years in the middle of his life and leave out other periods?
问：叶问生于1893年，逝于1972年。为什么你决定关注他人生中间的20年，而没有反映其他的时期？
A. Well, 1936 is a very important year, a golden time for martial arts, right before the Japanese invasion. In the tradition of Chinese martial arts, there is always a rivalry between the north and the south. This is the first time that martial artists from different parts of China united under one flag to defend the country.
答：嗯，1936年是很重要的一年，是武术的黄金时代，当时正是日本侵略之前。中国武术传统上一直有南北之争，这是来自中国不同地区的武术家第一次联合在一面旗帜下，保卫国家。
Q. You didn’t mention the controversy about Ip Man’s sympathies to the anti-Communist KMT nationalist party. Were you hoping to avoid problems for your film in mainland China?
问：你也没有提到叶问因为对反共的国民党抱有同情而产生的争议。你是希望避免自己的电影在中国内地遇到麻烦吗？
A. No, it’s not because of that. There is so much speculation, but when I talked to the family, they said this is not exactly the story of Ip Man. It’s not confirmed that he was with the KMT. The reason he had to move to Hong Kong after ’49 was because he came from a very rich family and was a considered a capitalist.
答：不，不是因为这个。有很多揣测，可是我和叶家的人交谈时，他们说这种叙述并不十分确切。并没有确切的说法表明他加入了国民党。他在1949年后移居香港的原因是他出身富裕家庭，被认为是资本家。
Q. The version of your film released in Asia different  than what we are seeing in the West. What accounts for the cuts and changes you made?
问：这部电影在亚洲放映的版本和西方观众看到的版本有些差异。你为什么做了那样的删减和修改？
A. The original version released in China was 2:22. But we have a contractual obligation to release the film in the United States at under 2 hours. When I looked at the original version, I noticed certain things that because of the historical background and cultural context, even for a Chinese audience can be difficult. So I simplified that by using captions to give all this information, and I tried to sneak in some additional scenes.
答：最初在中国上映的版本有2小时22分钟。不过在美国上映时，合同要求片长低于2小时。在看最初的版本时，我注意到一些事由于历史和文化背景的缘故，即使是中国观众也很难理解。所以我做了一些简化，用字幕给出所有的信息，我还努力加进了一些额外的镜头。
I know there is speculation about is this my vision or a compromise. So I want to make it clear that this version is something that I wanted to do. I’m responsible for it, and I’m proud of it.
我知道有人揣测，这到底是我自己的视角还是一种妥协。所以我想明确地说，这个版本是我出于自己的意愿剪的。我愿意对它负责，对它也很骄傲。
Q. This is the seventh movie you’ve made with Tony Leung, so obviously there is some strong chemistry there. Can you talk about that?
问：这是你与梁朝伟(Tony Leung)合作的第七部电影，所以你们之间显然有很强的默契。能谈谈这个话题吗？
A. The secret of keeping this longtime collaboration is that we try to be mysterious. We don’t talk much, because we want to have that mystery. In a way, for this film, it’s a challenge for him. We all know he is a very fine actor, but he does not have any training in martial arts. So when I had the idea for this film, I said to him, “You have to do all this hand-to-hand combat yourself, there’s not going to be any tricks, so you need to go through all this training.” He said, “Fine, it’s never too late, I’m only 47.”
答：持续合作这么久的秘诀是，我们会努力保持神秘感。我们交谈不多，因为我们希望保持那种神秘感。在一定意义上，这部电影对他是个挑战。我们都知道他是一个很出色的演员，但是他没有接受过任何武术训练。所以我一有拍这部电影的设想，就对他说，“真拳真脚的搏斗都需要你自己打，不会有任何花招，所以你需要接受所有的训练。”他说，“好啊，什么时候都不算晚，我才47岁。”
Q. This is the first time you’ve gotten as far as the Oscar shortlist. What is your reaction to the experience?
问：这是你第一次入围奥斯卡奖，对此你有何反应？
A. I know nothing about this process. It’s something new for me, because I always think the best way to do a campaign for a film is to make a great film. But obviously that is not enough, because in this process they are all great films and directors. So you have to work a bit, have to explain, have to talk to people. This is fun because it’s almost like Tony Leung: it’s never too late.
答：我对挑选的流程一无所知。这对我来说是一个新的体验，因为我一直认为，为一部电影做宣传最好的方式是把它拍得很棒。但是很显然，这还是不够的，因为进入挑选流程的都是好电影和好导演。所以就需要做一些工作，必须要解释，必须要跟人交流。这种体验很有趣，就像梁朝伟说的，什么时候都不算晚。