BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. — Wang Jianlin, chairman of the Dalian Wanda Group, the Chinese conglomerate that is emerging — controversially — as a superpower in the entertainment business, sat in an opulent armchair at the Peninsula Hotel here on Sunday and discussed his business ventures with a casual efficiency.
加利福尼亚州贝弗利山——周日，在这里的半岛酒店(Peninsula Hotel)，中国大连万达集团的董事长王健林坐在一张豪华的扶手椅里，轻松、高效地讨论自己的商业投资。万达正在——极具争议地——成为娱乐业的超级巨头。
His response to criticism from a member of Congress that Wanda, after a spectacular $8 billion shopping spree in Hollywood, is a propaganda threat and should be subject to more Justice Department scrutiny? It is “not like we are invading,” Mr. Wang said, contending that Wanda’s goal involves “helping” American film companies “to get more market share in the emerging movies market that is China.” (And, of course, making money for Wanda along the way.)
万达在好莱坞豪掷80亿美元（约合540亿元人民币）掀起一轮疯狂的收购后，一名国会议员指责万达是一个宣传威胁，应接受司法部的更多审查。王健林对此作何回应？“并不是说我们在入侵，”王健林说，万达的目标包含“帮助”美国电影公司“在中国这个新兴电影市场取得更多市场份额”。（当然在这个过程中万达也要挣钱。）
Mr. Wang, visiting California to unveil sizable financial incentives aimed at wooing American productions to Wanda’s new $5 billion studio complex in China, went on to call himself an “angel” investor. He noted that Wanda had purchased struggling companies like AMC Theaters and Legendary Entertainment — “the best companies would not sell to us” — and strengthened them. AMC’s stock price, for instance, has risen 64 percent since Wanda bought it for $2.6 billion in 2012.
王健林来到加利福尼亚州是为了推介多项财务激励措施，将美国的影视制作吸引到万达在中国投资50亿美元新建的影视产业园。王健林继续自称“天使”投资人。他指出，万达收购了境况艰难的公司，如AMC电影院(AMC Theaters)和传奇影业(Legendary Entertainment)——“最好的公司是不会卖给我们的”——并增强了它们的实力。比如，自2012年被万达以26亿美元的价格收购后，AMC的股价上涨了64%。
Mr. Wang, who noted that Wanda was focused on entertainment “profit” 14 times during a 40-minute interview, said storytelling decisions by American studios in relation to China, with or without Wanda ownership, were about maximizing returns at the fast-growing Chinese box office.
在40分钟的采访中14次提到万达关注的是娱乐“利润”的王健林表示，不管是不是属于万达，美国制作公司有关中国的叙事决定，都是为了在增长迅速的中国票房市场取得回报的最大化。
“More Chinese elements mean more Chinese profits,” he said.
“中国元素越多，意味着在中国的获利越多，”他说。
Mr. Wang arrived by private jet over the weekend to wrap up Wanda’s latest acquisition — the company is buying Dick Clark Productions for about $1 billion — and dangle an enormous carrot in front of Warner Bros., 20th Century Fox, Paramount, Universal and Walt Disney. Wanda and the Qingdao municipal government have established a major incentive program to lure movie and TV production to the 408-acre Qingdao Movie Metropolis.
王健林周末乘坐私人飞机来到这里，以完成万达最新的一笔收购——该公司正在以大约10亿美元的价格收购迪克·克拉克制作公司(Dick Clark Productions)——并对华纳兄弟(Warner Bros.)、20世纪福克斯公司(20th Century Fox)、派拉蒙(Paramount)、环球(Universal)和华特迪士尼(Walt Disney)施以诱惑。为了吸引影视制作业务进入占地408英亩（约合1.7平方公里）的青岛东方影都，万达和青岛市政府制定了一个大型激励计划。
Billed as an effort to “bridge the entertainment capitals of the world,” the program will provide a 40 percent rebate on certain production spending in Qingdao, which is about 450 miles north of Shanghai and is the site of Wanda Studios, still under construction. Scheduled to fully open in 2018, Wanda Studios will feature 30 advanced soundstages, including the world’s largest at over 107,000 square feet; an underwater stage; and a 221-acre back lot.
该计划被宣传为一项“连接世界娱乐之都”的行动。它的内容是，用在青岛的某些制作费用可获得40%的返款。青岛位于上海以北约450英里（约合720公里）处，是仍在施工建设中的万达影视产业园的所在地。计划2018年全面开放的万达影视产业园将有30个先进的影棚，包括面积达10.7万平方英尺（约合1万平方米）的全球最大影棚、一个水下摄影棚和一个占地221英亩的露天片场。
The rebate on each film or television production will be limited to $18 million. The total amount available to disperse will be $150 million annually. There will be three classifications of rebate productions, according to Wanda, and only one of those would require Chinese cultural elements, Chinese actors and Chinese investors — films classified by the Chinese government as co-productions that are not subject to import limits.
每部影视作品的返款不得超过1800万美元。每年可供支出的总返款金额为1.5亿美元。据万达称，返款影视作品将分为三类，只有一类要求要有中国文化元素、中国演员和中国投资者，即被中国政府归为不受进口限制的合拍片。
Applications will be evaluated by a 10-person committee of government officials and Wanda executives, a Wanda spokeswoman said.
万达的一名发言人表示，政府官员和万达的高管将组成一个10人委员会，对返款申请进行评估。
The incentives plan was to be announced on Monday by Mr. Wang; Eric Garcetti, the mayor of Los Angeles; Cheryl Boone Isaacs, the president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences; and Jack Gao, the head of Wanda’s Cultural Industry Group. A private dinner for 100 studio executives and agency chiefs was planned, with performances from acrobats, magicians and a Chinese pop star.
该激励计划将于周一由王健林、洛杉矶市长埃里克·加希提(Eric Garcetti)、美国电影艺术与科学学院(The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)主席谢丽尔·布恩·艾萨克斯(Cheryl Boone Isaacs)和万达文化产业集团负责人高群耀共同宣布。按计划还有一场面向100位制作公司高管和机构负责人的私人晚宴，现场将有杂技演员、魔术师和一名中国流行歌手的表演。
Mr. Wang, a spry former military officer who is said to be China’s richest man, said he hoped that an additional $3 billion in Qingdao amenities — “international hospitals, international schools, yacht clubs, hotels, shopping” — would make American stars and marquee directors more willing to spend months at a time working there. “Like going on a vacation” is how he described it.
曾是一名军官的王健林精力充沛，据称是中国首富。他表示，希望对青岛的生活福利设施——“国际医院、国际学校、游艇俱乐部、酒店、购物”——追加的30亿美元投资能让美国的明星和大导演更愿意一次在那里工作几个月。他的原话是，“就像度假一样。”
He added that the incentives were not just about busying Wanda Studios and increasing the supply of movies to Wanda’s theaters, both in China, where it controls 3,056 screens, and elsewhere.
他补充说，上述激励措施的目标不只是让万达影视产业园繁荣起来，并增加位于中国以及其他国家的万达影院的片源——在中国，万达控制着3056块银幕。
“Am I a fool? Of course not,” he said, with a laugh, before alluding to Wanda’s vast real estate division. “Because I attract so many people, that place will become very popular and famous. And the value of the land there will increase. And I can sell more houses.”
“我是傻瓜吗？当然不是，”他笑着说道，随后以不太直接的方式提到了万达庞大的房地产部门。“因为我把很多人都吸引过来了，所以那个地方会变得非常受欢迎、非常有名。那边的土地会升值。然后我就可以卖出更多房子。”
If successful, the rebates could shift the global movie incentives game, in which Hollywood has moved production to locales like Canada, Romania and New Zealand. Legendary Entertainment has plans to film at least two movies under the program, including a sequel to “Pacific Rim.”
如果返款措施取得成功，可能会改变全球电影市场激励格局，目前在这一格局中，好莱坞已将电影制作向加拿大、罗马尼亚、新西兰等地转移。传奇影业计划在这一激励计划之下至少拍两部片子，其中一部是《环太平洋》(Pacific Rim)的续集。
Mr. Wang said that Wanda intended to control 20 percent of the world’s movie theater seats by 2020. It currently has about 13 percent, including those run in Europe by the Odeon and UCI Cinemas Group, which Wanda bought for $650 million.
王健林说，万达计划到2020年控制全球20%的电影院座位。它目前控制着大约13%，其中包括它斥资6.5亿美元买下的欧迪恩和UCI影院集团(Odeon & UCI Cinemas Group)在欧洲所掌控的那些座位。
By 2020, Wanda aims to have annual revenue of $100 billion and net profits of $10 billion. With its real estate growth slowing, Wanda is also moving into sports, It recently paid $1.2 billion for Infront Sports and Media, a sports marketing company, and tourist destinations, including a $3.5 billion entertainment, shopping and hotel complex outside Paris.
万达的目标是，到2020年，实现年收入1000亿美元，净利润100亿美元。由于其房地产业务增长放缓，万达目前在向体育行业进军，最近花12亿美元收购了体育营销公司盈方体育传媒(Infront Sports & Media)；此外它还涉足旅游目的地，其中包括巴黎郊外一个耗资35亿美元的娱乐、购物和酒店综合体。
“Cash flow for real estate in China is not stable in the long term,” he said. Wanda remains interested in buying more Hollywood companies as it seeks growth, including a major studio, he added. “If it is a very good company,” he said, there will be “no ceiling” for the price offered.
“从长期来看，中国房地产行业的现金流并不稳定，”他说。他还表示，万达在寻求增长之际，依然有兴趣收购更多的好莱坞公司，其中包括一家大型制片公司。“如果它是很好的公司，”他说，出价将“上不封顶”。
As Wanda pushes deeper into filmed entertainment, the company plans to build a $1.2 billion headquarters in Beverly Hills “to aid in China’s entry into Hollywood’s film industry and generally promote Chinese culture abroad,” Wanda said in a news release.
随着万达更为深入地介入电影娱乐界。该公司计划在贝弗利山修建一个耗资12亿美元的总部，它在一份新闻稿中表示，这样做是为了“支持中国电影产业走向好莱坞，推动中国文化走出去”。
But it is clear that Mr. Wang, who spoke to The New York Times with the assistance of an interpreter, has gotten the message that a bit less bombast might help smooth Wanda’s forward march.
不过，在一位翻译的帮助下与时报记者交谈的王健林显然已经意识到，少一点儿夸夸其谈或许可以让万达在前进的道路上走得更加顺畅。
Take his approach to Disney. In the spring, as Disney was opening its first theme park resort on the Chinese mainland, the $5.5 billion Shanghai Disneyland, Mr. Wang went on the attack. “The frenzy of Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck and the era of blindly following them have passed,” Mr. Wang said on state television in May. At the time, Disney called his remarks “patently absurd.”
以他对迪士尼的态度为例。今年春天，当迪士尼在中国大陆的第一个主题公园——耗资55亿美元的上海迪士尼乐园将要开业的时候，王健林发起了攻击。“现在已经不是为米老鼠、唐老鸭疯狂，盲目追随它们的年代了，那个年代已经过去了，”他在五月份告诉国家电视台。迪士尼当时称其言论”很荒唐“。
On Sunday, however, Mr. Wang struck a friendly tone. “We respect Disney,” he said. “Competition is unavoidable,” he added, noting that Wanda has five theme-park-style properties open in China and seven more under construction. “But I respect Disney very much.”
不过，周日这天，王健林的语气颇为友好。“我们尊重迪士尼，”他说。“竞争是不可避免的，”他继续说道，并提及万达在中国开设了五个主题公园式的园区，另有七个处于建设中。“但我非常尊重迪士尼。”
Mr. Wang said he had personally visited every Disney resort in the world, with the exception of the Shanghai outpost.
王健林说，他亲自逛过全世界的每一个迪士尼度假区，只有这家迪士尼在上海的前哨基地除外。
In person, Mr. Wang came across as a disciplined executive — he arrived at exactly 8:59 a.m. for a 9 a.m. appointment and stayed exactly one hour — who cared only about making money and not tinkering with scripts. He said that he had not seen any videotape from “The Great Wall,” a coming $150 million Legendary Entertainment film starring Matt Damon.
面对面时，王健林给人的印象是一个自律的企业高管——约好9点见面，他恰好在8点59分抵达，而且刚好停留了一个小时——他真正在意的是赚钱，而非修改剧本。他说自己还没看过来自《长城》(The Great Wall)的任何片段。这部即将上映的电影由传奇影业出品，耗资1.5亿美元，主演为马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)。
He “is not quite into the technical details like that, because the entire movie sector in Wanda accounts for only one-eighth or one-tenth of the revenue,” he said. Wanda’s culture division, which includes the theme parks, domestic movie theaters and sports holdings, made a profit of 43.9 million Chinese renminbi, or $6.5 million, in the first half of 2015, against assets of about $11 billion, according to a Wanda stock prospectus.
他说自己“并不十分在意这类技术细节，因为万达整个电影部门的收入占比仅为八分之一或十分之一”。万达的一份招股说明书显示，该公司的文化产业部门涵盖主题公园、国内影院及体育控股公司等，在2015年上半年实现利润4390万元人民币（约合650万美元），当时相关资产约为110亿美元。
The more hands-off that Mr. Wang can appear, of course, the better Wanda will fare among those calling for heightened scrutiny of its entertainment dealings. But all that matters to Hollywood is Wanda’s money.
当然了，王健林越是表现出不会过多插手的样子，万达就越能取得进展，让呼吁加强关注该公司娱乐业交易的那些人有所改观。但好莱坞在乎的只有王健林的钱。
By that measure, Qingdao applications should already be rolling in.
从这一点来看，青岛方面收到的申请应该已经源源不绝了吧。