Wong Kar-wai was recounting his research for “The Grandmaster,” the tale of the kung fu innovator who trained Bruce Lee. As he described crisscrossing the mainland to talk to aging martial artists, he could have been setting the scene for a movie.
王家卫为记者细述自己为《一代宗师》(The Grandmaster)所做的研究，这部电影讲的是李小龙的师父——一位功夫创新者的故事。他描述自己在中国大陆奔波，和年长的武术家交谈，当时的情景简直可以拍一部电影了。
“I went to a town in the middle of China. Winter, 5 o’clock in the morning, a train station, snowing,” Mr. Wong recalled. “I find a grandmaster. And he’s training with around 30 students.”
“我来到中国中部的一个镇子。是冬天，凌晨五点，火车站，下着雪，”王家卫回忆，“我找到一位功夫大师，他门下有30多位弟子。”
With his 10th feature — his first original one since 2007 — Mr. Wong mines the generation-spanning heritage of martial arts cinema. “The Grandmaster” traces the rise of Ip Man (Tony Leung) in phases from the 1930s to the 1950s. Portrayed as a late bloomer, this fighter has his mettle tested by a revered northern master, Gong Baosen; by the upheaval of Japanese occupation; and in a fresh hand-to-hand twist on Wong-esque lovers’ torment, by Gong Baosen’s daughter, Gong Er (Zhang Ziyi).
这是王家卫的第十部长片，是他自2007年后拍摄的第一部新片，片中探索了武术电影跨世代的遗产。《一代宗师》追溯叶问（梁朝伟饰）在20世纪30年代到50年代之间的崛起。在与备受尊敬的北方武学大师宫宝森的接触中、在动荡的日本占领时期、在与宫二（章子怡饰）王家卫式扳手腕般的爱情纠葛里，这位大器晚成的武术家的勇气经受了考验。
It may seem like a departure for the director of lush mood pieces like “In the Mood for Love” and “Chungking Express.” But “The Grandmaster,” which opens on Friday, isn’t Mr. Wong’s first martial arts film (that would be 1994’s “Ashes of Time”), nor does it dispense with his obsession with romantic longing. And in fact his interest in the genre dates to his boyhood, growing up on a street filled with martial arts schools that were forbidden territory for a curious child. As he explained in an interview about his history with kung fu films, he has in a way been watching and wondering ever since.
王家卫曾拍出《花样年华》(In the Mood for Love)和《重庆森林》(Chungking Express)这样感情丰富的影片，《一代宗师》似乎是对这种风格的背离。但《一代宗师》并不是王家卫第一次涉猎武术电影（第一次是1994年的《东邪西毒》），也没有脱离他对浪漫渴望的执着。事实上，他对武术电影的兴趣从童年就开始了。他小时候住的那条街上到处都是武术学校，但却不允许一个好奇的男孩入内。后来他在采访中解释自己和功夫片的渊源，说自己从那时起就在观察和思考功夫的事了。
Though the new film has played in China, abroad and in festivals, the version being released in the United States is a shorter cut. The American edit, with his approval, adds explanatory titles, character names and some different footage and hews to a more linear chronology. The highlights remain, like an almost phantasmagorical fight that takes place inches away from a roaring train in winter.
这部新片已在中国、海外和许多电影节上映，不过在美国上映的版本是精简版。美国的剪辑经过他的同意，增添了名词解释和角色名称的字幕，为了让故事更有时间上的延续性，删改了一些镜头。影片的重点仍然是一场梦幻般的打斗，发生在冬天，一列呼啸而过的火车旁边。
Reviewing the version that played at the Berlin International Film Festival in February, Variety called it “one of the most propulsive yet ethereal realizations of authentic martial arts.” The Hollywood Reporter noted that amid “some of the most dazzling fights ever seen on screen,” Mr. Wong seems “preoccupied with the introspective verbal exchanges between his battle-hardened warriors.”
《综艺》(Variety)杂志评论了这部片子在2月柏林国际电影节上映的版本，称它为“对真实武术最为紧凑而又轻盈的展示之一”。《好莱坞报道者》(The Hollywood Reporter)说它是“银屏史上最令人眼花缭乱的打斗之一”，王家卫似乎“喜欢让片中艰苦战斗的武士们进行内省的对话”。
A box office success in China, “The Grandmaster” represents a step back into the limelight for Mr. Wong after his maligned American road movie from 2007, “My Blueberry Nights.” In between came the 2008 release of “Ashes of Time Redux,” a reworking of his 1994 attempt at a martial arts film, which originally received mixed reviews. “Redux” now seems like a needed creative exercise, and its loose, colorfully stylized adaptation of a serialized wuxia novel signaled that any Wong treatment of the martial arts will always bear his singular imprint. (As he said at a preview of “The Grandmaster” at the Museum of the Moving Image: “I can’t change overnight. I’m still that person.”)
《一代宗师》在中国获得了票房成功，它象征着王家卫在2007年备受恶评的美国公路片《蓝莓之夜》后，再度回到聚光灯下。其间还有2008年的《东邪西毒：终极版》，这是他1994年尝试的那部武侠片的修改版。该片当年推出时获得毁誉参半的评价。“终极版”现在看来似乎是一种必要的创作练习。该片是在一部连载武侠小说基础上改编的，有着松散、色彩丰富的风格，显示出王家卫对武术的处理也总会带上自己独特的印记。正如《一代宗师》他在移动影像博物馆试映时所说的：“我不会一夜之间就改变的，我还是原来的我。”
Mr. Wong’s first exposure to the martial arts tradition came through novels of the sort that Mr. Leung’s character works on in “In the Mood for Love.” But movies took over soon enough. As he remembered the films that made an early impact, he zeroed in on the very real physical impacts of the 1970 Shaw Brothers film “The Chinese Boxer.” In the brutal story, a kung fu student must avenge the killing of his teacher by Japanese karate masters, and hardens his fists in order to wale on his enemies.
王家卫第一次接触武侠传统，是通过武侠小说——《花样年华》里，梁朝伟饰演的角色就是在写武侠小说。但很快他就转而观看武侠电影。他记得有些武侠电影，曾在早年带给他巨大的冲击，特别是邵氏兄弟1960年的《龙虎斗》(The Chinese Boxer)。在这个残酷的故事里，一个功夫学徒要向几个日本空手道大师报杀师之仇，为了打败敌人，他刻苦磨练自己的拳头。
“It’s the first time that you feel all these punches actually hurt,” Mr. Wong said by phone from Hong Kong. “Today people have forgotten about this film. But it broke records in Hong Kong. It’s very violent, and very modern in a way.”
“这是你第一次有拳拳到肉的感觉，”王家卫在香港接受电话采访时说道，“如今人们已经忘记了这部电影。但当时它在香港创下了纪录。它非常暴力，某种程度上也非常现代。”
After working with the celebrated stunt coordinator Yuen Woo-ping on “The Grandmaster,” Mr. Wong took care to cite past choreographers who gave martial arts cinema its heft. One giant died recently: Lau Kar-leung, whose “Challenge of the Masters” (1976) and “Legendary Weapons of China” (1982) he singled out as extraordinary demonstrations of fighting styles like hung ga. (Mr. Lau’s nephew plays one of Ip Man’s challengers.) The work of Sammo Hung in “The Prodigal Son” (1981) also caught his attention.
王家卫在《一代宗师》中与著名特技师袁和平合作，他特别提起过去那些为武侠电影大大增色的武打设计师们。其中刘家良大师刚刚去世不久，在《陆阿采与黄飞鸿》（1976）和《十八般武艺》(1982)中，他格外精彩地展现了洪拳等武技。刘家良的侄子也在《一代宗师》中饰演叶问的对手之一。《败家子》(1981)中洪金宝的表演也引起了王家卫的注意。
Mr. Wong’s earliest memory of watching Ip Man’s most famous pupil, Bruce Lee, is still vivid.
王家卫还清晰地记得早年间看到李小龙时的情景，他是叶问最著名的学生。
“I still remember the first time, thinking, ‘What is this?’ From now on, that’s a kung fu film,” he recalled. “With the other films before, the kung fu masters are very mature, very traditional. Bruce Lee was very modern, young, straightforward. He still has this charisma. This charisma is his confidence.”
“我还记得自己第一次看的时候想，‘这是什么？’从那一刻起，就有了功夫片，”他回忆，“之前的功夫大师都非常老成，非常传统。李小龙则非常现代、年轻、直率。他还有那种人格魅力，源自他的自信。”
Still, “The Grandmaster” represents an effort to get back to the historical heart of kung fu and its schools; in Mr. Wong’s view, it’s a return to the legacy of kung fu, spotlighting the wing chun school of fighting, among others. Especially with the character of Gong Baosen, he also sought to re-emphasize “the manner, the formalities of these martial artists.”
不过，《一代宗师》象征了回归功夫与流派历史核心的努力；在王家卫看来，这是回归功夫的遗产，特别是咏春拳。通过宫宝森这个人物，他希望再次强调“这些武术大师们的仪表风范”。
Aliza Ma, an assistant film curator at the Museum of the Moving Image who helped organize a Wong retrospective under way there, wrote in an e-mail that the director “marries a historical-realist agenda with a certain sense of mythopoeticism that surpasses the previously established contrasting subgenres of martial arts cinema.”
移动影像博物馆的助理电影策展人艾丽莎·马(Aliza Ma)帮助组织了正在该馆举办的王家卫电影回顾展，她在电子邮件中写道，这位导演“把历史真实事件与某种特定的神秘诗意感融合起来，超越了之前武侠电影中的各种分类”。
Mr. Wong pointed out a trend toward fantasy in martial arts cinema of the last 20 years. While King Hu’s “A Touch of Zen” (1969) was already an established classic of the wuxia genre, “The Shaolin Temple” (1982), starring Jet Li, was a milestone in the fantastical strand. He likened its eye-catching techniques to the modern tradition in China of treating martial arts as a competitive sport. In films that followed “Shaolin Temple,” he said, “it becomes just show, it loses the essence of one major aspect: kung fu is also a weapon.”
王家卫指出，最近20年来，武术电影有奇幻化的倾向。1969年，胡金铨的《侠女》是武侠电影的经典之作，1982年，李连杰主演的《少林寺》是奇幻化路线的里程碑。他指出，这些电影中那些令人目眩的特技，和中国人将武术视为竞技体育的现代传统有关。他说，在《少林寺》之后的电影里，“功夫就只是用来展示，丧失了最重要的东西——功夫其实也是一种武器。”
Just as the punches and kicks of wing chun deliver stinging blows, the lasting ache of romance in “The Grandmaster” leaves its mark. At a preview of the film in July, Mr. Wong recalled with a chuckle that he had heard the film characterized as a sui generis combination: “Doctor Zhivago” meets kung fu.
正如咏春拳的一招一式都可以带来伤害，《一代宗师》中痛苦的爱情故事也在人们心中留下了印记。在7月电影的试映会上，王家卫笑着回忆，自己曾听说这部电影被归为别无仅有的风格——《日瓦戈医生》(Doctor Zhivago)与功夫的合体。