THE birth of the prince of Cambridge is the worst possible subject for a cynic like me. All we naysayers and pooh-poohers are obliged to stuff a sock in it. You simply cannot, you cannot, be down on the royal baby.
“剑桥王子”(prince of Cambridge)的降生，是像我这样的怀疑者可能遇到的最糟糕的话题。我们这些惯于说反话和表示不屑的人被迫在这个话题前住口。你就是不能、绝对不能说王室宝宝的坏话。
It’s strange, because aside from its inexhaustible capacity to cause traffic jams around Buckingham Palace for another pomp-laden Trooping the Color, the British monarchy wields no real power. The firstborn of the Duchess of Cambridge (that’s Kate Middleton to you) being third in line for the throne is of no more worldly import than my being third in line at my local London Tesco.
这很奇怪，这是因为，除了举行另一场声势浩大的皇家阅兵(Trooping the Colour)仪式，让白金汉宫(Buckingham Palace )周围陷入交通拥堵外，英国王室并没有真正的权力。剑桥公爵夫人（Duchess of Cambridge，也即你所知的凯特·米德尔顿[Kate Middleton]）生下的第一个孩子是英国王室第三顺位继承人，这一点对现实世界的重要性，并不高于我在伦敦乐购(Tesco)超市排队所在的第三位。
So why has The Daily Mail created a glossy Royal Baby Magazine? Why was there a Royal Baby app to follow the minute-by-minute progress of Kate’s pregnancy? And why was it just one of many: Guess the Name of the Royal Baby, Royal Baby Slots Gaming and Royal Baby Run, in which your avatar walks with the anointed pipsqueak balanced on a velvet pillow?
那么，为何《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)还是创办了一本光鲜亮丽的王室宝宝杂志(Royal Baby Magazine)?为什么会出现每分每秒地跟踪凯特孕期进程的王室宝宝应用软件？为什么该应用只是以王室宝宝为主题的众多应用中的一个：猜猜王室宝宝的名字，王室宝宝老虎机游戏(Royal Baby Slots Gaming)，以及王室宝宝快跑(Royal Baby Run)，在该游戏中，你的虚拟化身和一个在天鹅绒枕头上维持平衡的小不点未来君主同行。
Meanwhile, the British are expected to lavish $95 million on sparkling wine to toast the birth; $38 million on celebratory party food; $86 million on commemorative memorabilia, from booties to cookies; $117 million on DVDs and books, including a history of the diapers that have clad the royal baby bottom; and $37 million on royal baby-themed toys. You can buy royal baby burp cloths and royal baby potty trainers. Little wonder that, for us hardhearted skeptics, as far back as December some wag started to market “royal” sick bags.
与此同时，为了庆祝王室宝宝诞生，预计英国人将消费9500万美元（约合5.83亿元人民币）购买汽酒；3800万美元购买庆祝派对食品；8600万美元购买纪念品，这些纪念品从短靴到曲奇，无奇不有；他们还将消费1.17亿美元购买DVD光盘和书籍，包括一本介绍包裹王室宝宝臀部的尿布历史的著作；还要花费3700万美元购买以王室宝宝为主题的玩具。你可以买到王室宝宝围兜和王室宝宝训练便盆。不出我们这些不为所动的怀疑论者所料的是，早在去年12月，一些巧舌如簧的家伙就已开始推销“皇家”呕吐袋了。
All this, and Britain is still crawling out from a painful recession. But perhaps that’s part of the point. Fervor over the royal pregnancy and birth distracts the masses from their enormous British Gas bills. The Wimbledon champ Andy Murray and the Tour de France winner Chris Froome aside, Britain’s been pretty grim since 2008, with the worst of both worlds: relentless legislative rhetoric about “austerity,” while the British budget continues to grow. You can’t fault the careworn commoners for latching on to an occasion of unqualified pleasantness — especially when it’s the firstborn grandchild of their beloved Diana, Princess of Wales.
在所有这些折腾的背后，英国仍在艰难摆脱一场痛苦的经济衰退。不过，也许这就是部分意义。对王室成员怀孕及生子的兴奋关注，转移了大众的注意力，使他们暂时忘却英国天然气公司(British Gas)的高额账单。撇开温布尔登网球公开赛(Wimbledon)冠军安迪·穆雷(Andy Murray)和环法自行车赛(Tour de France)冠军克里斯·弗鲁姆(Chris Froome)不谈，自2008年以来，英国的形势一直相当阴暗，深陷最糟糕的双重结合：政府无情地推动“财政紧缩”立法，但其预算却在持续增长。你不能责怪吃尽苦头的老百姓抓住一件没有争议的喜事取乐，况且，这可是他们爱戴的威尔士王妃(Princess of Wales)戴安娜的第一个孙辈。
Besides, it may be irrational to go into ecstasies about the continuation of a politically disenfranchised monarchy, but nations are not rational constructs, and the history of Britain is told in kings and queens.
还有，为一个在政治上已被除权的王室后继有人而欣喜若狂，也许是不理智的，可是，国民本来就不是理性的构造，再说英国历史是以国王和女王为主线的。
But British culture isn’t what it used to be: it has been compromised by a deluge of imports like “Mad Men” and “World War Z” (that’s “World War Zed”), unprecedented immigration and European Union trampling on national sovereignty.
不过，英国文化也不再是旧日模样。面对《广告狂人》(Mad Men)和《僵尸世界大战》(World War Z，在这里称为“World War Zed”)等铺天盖地的舶来品、面对前所未有的移民潮、面对欧盟(European Union)对国家主权的削弱，英国文化已改头换面。
The British hold on to their sense of themselves by the fingernails, and when it comes to identity you take what you can get — especially if the national window dressing draws a handsome whack of tourist dollars. However decorative the institution, at least for the British this birth symbolically perpetuates the endurance of their own country.
英国人勉强把握住自己的国民身份意识，而在身份认同方面，人们会抓住自己能够引以为豪的东西，尤其是当国家的门面能吸引大批游客手里的美元时更是如此。无论王室制度在多大程度上只是装点门面的，至少对英国人而言，王室宝宝的出生依然象征着他们的国家江山永固。
More baffling is the hoo-ha in the United States. Dozens of the cameras outside St. Mary’s Hospital, where the duchess delivered her child on Monday, were American. Two of the major TV networks had anchors in London to cover the royal birth.
更让人不解的是美国人的激动之情。在公爵夫人产子的圣玛丽医院(St. Mary’s Hospital)外架设了数十台摄像机的是美国人。美国两大主要电视台把新闻主持人派到伦敦“实地”报道王室宝宝的降生。
Have we no shame? Did we not cut our apron strings to the British monarchy emphatically and at some cost? So why do so many Americans seem to believe that Elizabeth II, her curmudgeonly son Charles, his strapping sons Will and Harry, the winsome duchess and her newborn still belong to us?
我们不觉得耻辱吗？难道我们不是付出了一些代价、才坚决摆脱英国君主的吗？那么，为什么这么多美国人好像相信伊丽莎白二世(Elizabeth II)、她那脾气乖戾的儿子查尔斯(Charles)、查尔斯高大魁梧的儿子威廉(Will)和哈里(Harry)、招人喜爱的公爵夫人以及她刚诞下的婴儿依然属于我们呢？
My fellow Yanks never seem even slightly fascinated by the has-been royals who survive in other European countries. Americans care only about British royalty — which someone will have to explain to me. Maybe I’ve lived in Britain too long, because I’m stumped.
我的美国同胞似乎从未对其他欧洲国家的过气王室成员有任何兴趣。美国人只关心英国王室——这一点得有人向我解释。或许我已在英国生活了太长时间，因为我怔住了。
Yet for Britain, royal baby mania is wholesome enough, maybe even healthy. In contemporary Britain, privilege has inverted to disadvantage. Though the country must still harbor a secret aristocracy somewhere, you’re hard-pressed to find anyone who admits to belonging to it. The cut-glass English accent is virtually extinct, “innit” Estuary English far more fashionable — even the likes of George Osborne, the tony Etonian chancellor of the Exchequer, visits hoi polloi in factories and starts dropping his H’s.
但对英国而言，对王室宝宝的狂热足够有益，也许甚至是健康的。在当代英国，特权已经转变成了劣势。尽管这个国家肯定仍在某个地方保留着一个秘密的贵族阶层，但你很难找到承认自己属于这个阶层的人。纯正优雅的英语口音几乎已经听不到了，而“innit”（意为是不是）这样的河口英语（Estuary English，在英格兰东南部，尤其是泰晤士河沿岸和其河口广泛使用的英语方言——译注）要流行得多，即便是像高贵的伊顿公学校友、英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)这样的人在探访工厂里的普通民众时，也开始不发H的音了。
The upper crust keeps its head down for good reason. Who would put themselves in the way of the free-floating ill-will, seething class envy and accusatory economic bitterness that poisons The Guardian’s letters to the editor? Contrary to their anachronistic reputation as civilized and polite, the modern British can be some of the nastiest, most resentful people on the planet.
上层阶级有理由保持低调。谁愿意让自己成为汹涌的敌意、沸腾的阶级妒忌和怪罪别人的经济抱怨的靶子？这些有毒情绪浸染着《卫报》(The Gaurdian)的读者来函。与过时的文明有礼的名声相反，现代英国人可能是全世界最猥琐、最愤愤不平的人之一。
The royal family is all that remains in Britain of an elite that cheerfully accepts its elevated status without embarrassment. The fresh start of a new generation has brought out a flush of good will, optimism and well-wishing that is a tonic for the British soul. My God, they’re acting nice — even toward a child who has more than a leg up, class-wise. Because you cannot, you cannot, be down on the royal baby.
在英国，王室家族是精英中唯一能自在地接受自己的高位，而无需尴尬的。新一代的诞生，激发出了一股善意、乐观和祝福情绪，这对英国人的灵魂有益。天哪，他们表现得很友善，即便是对一个生下来就比自己高多个阶级的孩子。因为你不能、绝对不能说这个王室宝宝的坏话。