BANGKOK — After nearly seven decades on the throne, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, 87, the keystone of Thailand’s identity and a major unifying force for the country, is in declining health. With increasing frequency, the palace has issued medical bulletins detailing his ailments, and in recent days his youngest daughter has led prayer sessions using a Buddhist rite normally used for terminally ill patients.
曼谷——登基近70年后，现年87岁的泰国国王普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)健康状况每况愈下，他是泰国人认同的基石，也是团结该国的一个主要力量。王宫开始日益频繁地发布国王的病情通告，近日来，他最年轻的女儿带领人们举行了祈福仪式，而这种仪式通常用于危重病人。
Worries over the king’s health have cast a pall of anxiety across the country, which has one of the worst performing economies in Asia and is ruled by a military junta that seized power last year.
国王的健康状况引发的担忧，为整个国家蒙上了一片愁云。如今泰国经济状况在亚洲属于最差的一批，并处于去年夺权的军政府的统治下。
While reverence for the king was once the only thing that this fractured country could agree on, today the future of the Thai monarchy is uncertain.
在这个分歧深重的国家，对国王的敬仰一度曾是各方唯一能达成共识的事。而今，泰国王室的未来也面临着不确定性。
The king’s heir apparent, the jet-setting crown prince, has a reputation as a playboy and faces an uphill battle to win the trust and adoration his father has achieved. Many Thais hoped that Princess Sirindhorn, the crown prince’s sister, who has won hearts through her charitable causes and dealings with the poor, might succeed her father, but palace law bars women from the throne.
泰国王储挥金如土，有着花花公子的名声，要想赢得父王受到的那种信任和爱戴，殊为不易。很多泰国民众期望诗琳通公主(Princess Sirindhorn)继承王位，但王室法律不允许女性成为国王。诗琳通公主是王太子的妹妹，她通过从事慈善事业并与穷人接触，赢得了民众的喜爱。
Worries over the transition have accelerated an extremely delicate debate over what kind of monarchy Thailand should have. Delicate because not only is Bhumibol still living, but any open discussion of the subject is severely circumscribed by a strict lèse-majesté law that makes it a crime to defame, insult or threaten the king, queen or heir-apparent.
对于王位继承的担忧，促使坊间对泰国应当成为一个怎样的君主国，开展了愈发激烈而又极端敏感的辩论。之所以敏感，不仅是因为普密蓬国王仍健在，还因为任何公开讨论这个话题的做法都被法律严格禁止。泰国有苛刻的法律禁止亵渎王室，诽谤、侮辱、威胁国王、王后或王储都是犯罪。
The law is interpreted broadly, and barely a month goes by without someone being convicted under it and sent to jail for up to 15 years.
这一法律解释得很宽泛，几乎每个月都有人因该法律获刑入狱，刑期最高可达15年。
Still, the Internet churns with anonymous social media commentary and videos deriding the monarchy, and a growing underground republican movement is challenging its very premise.
然而，互联网上还是会涌现出嘲讽王室的视频和匿名社交网络评论。此外，一股地下共和运动声势逐渐壮大，正在挑战王室存在的根基。
“The current anti-monarchy movement is due to the very fact that the monarchy is now made into almighty god,” said Sulak Sivaraksa, a social activist and scholar who has been charged or arrested five times for his outspokenness about the king. “The more you make the monarchy sacred, the more it becomes unaccountable and something beyond common sense.”
“目前的反王室运动出现的原因，在于王室现在被塑造成了全能的神，”社会活动人士、学者舒拉·西瓦拉克沙(Sulak Sivaraksa)表示。“你把王室塑造得越神圣，它就变得越不受问责，突破常识。”他曾因直言不讳地表达涉及国王的言论，而被起诉或逮捕过五次。
The support for such views is impossible to gauge. How popular is Crown Prince Vajiralongkorn, who has divorced or separated from three wives and in recent years spent half of his time in Europe? No one knows, because you cannot have a poll on the subject. Would Thais prefer some other system? Other than anonymous Internet posts and expatriate critics, it is not up for discussion.
这种观点得到了多少支持是无法衡量的。先后与三名妻子离婚或分居，近年来一半时间待在欧洲的王太子玛哈·哇集拉隆功(Maha Vajiralongkorn)又得到了多少民众的支持？没有人知道，因为不能就这个主题开展民调。泰国人会不会倾向于另外一种体制？除了互联网上匿名的帖子和移居国外的批评人士之外，没有多少别的讨论。
One way to assay the strength of the anti-monarchy movement might be by sizing up the military government’s efforts to counter it. The junta, which claims legitimacy from the king’s blessing, has positioned itself as the institution’s ultimate defender.
衡量反对君主制的力量有多强，一种方法是看军政府花了多大力气压制它。军政府宣称其合法性来自国王的支持，于是将自身认定为君主制的最终捍卫者。
The ruling generals have been aggressive in jailing critics of the monarchy and this year alone are spending $540 million, more than the entire budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on a promotional campaign called “Worship, protect and uphold the monarchy.”
掌权的将领们积极地追究王室的批评者，而且单单在今年，就花费了5.4亿美元开展一场名为“敬仰、保护、支持王室”的宣传活动，金额超过了外交部的全部预算。
The campaign includes television commercials, seminars in schools and prisons, singing contests and competitions to write novels and make short films praising the king. The military also erected giant statues of past kings in the seaside town of Hua Hin, but said they were financed by private donations.
这场宣传活动包括电视广告、在学校和监狱里举办研讨会，举行赞颂国王的歌唱比赛，以及小说和视频短片创作比赛。军方还在海滨城市华欣树立起了已故的历代国王的塑像，不过军方称是私人捐资修建的。
“This is not propaganda,” Prayuth Chan-ocha, the leader of the junta, said several months after seizing power last year. The youth, he said, “must be educated on what the king has done.”
“这不是宣传，”军政府首脑巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)在去年夺取政权几个月后表示。他说，“必须就国王的功绩”对年轻人“展开教育”。
In recent months the military has also appeared eager to burnish the reputation of the crown prince. Last month, Mr. Prayuth spent hours with the crown prince touring Bangkok by bicycle in a nationally televised event honoring Queen Sirikit, who is also in failing health.
近几个月来，军方似乎在急切地宣扬王太子的声誉。上个月，巴育花了数小时事件，与王太子骑自行车在曼谷巡游，向身体欠佳的诗丽吉王后(Queen Sirikit)致敬。这一活动通过电视面向全国播出。
The crown prince, 63, has been shown in Thai media and YouTube videos as youthful, athletic and a doting father, a contrast to the “Don Juan” the queen once called him.
泰国媒体和YouTube上的视频中，现年63岁的王太子被塑造成了一个年轻、强健的人和一个宠爱孩子的父亲，与诗丽吉王后曾经形容他的“唐璜”形成鲜明对比。
Mr. Kasit, the former foreign minister, said the bicycle tour was a “turning point” for the prince.
泰国前外长甲西(Kasit)表示，骑自行车巡游是王太子的一个“转折点”。
“There are no more doubts inside the military establishment as to who will be the next monarch of Thailand,” Mr. Kasit said.
“军队内部对于谁将成为泰国的下一位君主，不再有疑问了，”甲西说。
The military’s backing of the prince, indeed its alliance with the monarchy, is seen as mutually beneficial. The king is the head of the Thai armed forces and must endorse all new governments and major appointments. Critics say the military and Bangkok establishment are leveraging the king’s power to bolster their own.
军方对王太子的支持，确切说是与王室的合作，被认为是一种互惠互利。国王是泰国武装部队的统帅，而且必须支持所有的新政府和主要官职的任命。批评人士说，军方和曼谷的权力阶层是在依仗国王的权力增强自己的势力。
The absolute monarchy was abolished in Thailand in 1932. But King Bhumibol is treated like a demigod, and since he ascended the throne in 1946 the monarchy has grown into a bastion of prestige and wealth.
泰国在1932年废除了君主的绝对权力。然而普密蓬国王在一定程度上被神化了，自从1946年登基以来，王室成了一座荣耀和财富的堡垒。
Those who regard it as atavistic need not look far for potent symbols. In rituals that seem to hark from a different era, Thais humbly crawl or kneel before the king, a tradition abolished in the 19th century and resurrected during Bhumibol’s reign. His subjects refer to themselves as “the dust under your feet.”
如果认为这样的情景过于陈腐，不用费多大力气就能看到明显的象征。泰国的一些礼节，会让人觉得身处在另一个时代。泰国人在国王面前需要卑微地俯身在地，或者下跪，这种礼仪曾在19世纪废除，但又在普密蓬国王任内恢复。他的臣民要自称“他脚下的尘埃”。
Although rarely seen in public because of his age and illness, he is everywhere. His portraits hang from the facades of government buildings, crown the entrance to airports and are de rigueur in offices and schools.
尽管由于年事已高且身体欠佳，他很少公开露面，但他的形象无所不在。其肖像出现在政府大楼正面的墙壁上、机场的入口上方，在办公室和学校里更是比比皆是。
In a country where average household income is less than $9,000 a year, Bhumibol is almost unfathomably rich. In addition to the king’s personal holdings, the Crown Property Bureau, a royal trust, controls more than $37 billion in assets, which produce hundreds of millions of dollars in annual income that, according to Thai law, can be spent “at the king’s pleasure.”
在这个年均家庭收入不足9000美元的国家，普密蓬富有得几乎让人难以想象。除了国王的个人财产之外，王室所有的信托基金王室财产局(Crown Property Bureau)还控制着370亿美元的资产，每年产生数亿美元的收益。按照泰国法律，这笔钱可以“听凭国王的意愿”花费。
The republican movement was precipitated in part by the rise of Thaksin Shinawatra, a business tycoon turned populist politician whose influence and popularity in rural areas were seen as threats to the royal establishment and Bangkok’s urban elite.
他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的崛起在一定程度上壮大了共和运动的声势。民粹主义政治人物他信曾是商业大亨，他的影响力以及在农村地区的人气，被视为是对王室势力及曼谷城市精英的威胁。
The military ousted Mr. Thaksin as prime minister in 2006, and overthrew a government led by his sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, last year, but his followers remain the core of the most powerful political movements in modern Thai history. The king sided with the military in both coups.
2006年军方推翻了时任总理他信，又在去年推翻了他的妹妹英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)领导的政府。然而他信的追随者仍然是泰国现代史上最强有力的政治运动的核心。两次政变中，国王都支持了军方。
Military rule has papered over those divisions, silencing critics and jailing former members of the government. But unifying the country remains the most pressing challenge for both the junta and the future king.
军政府的统治掩盖了那些分歧，手段是压制批评人士，监禁前政府官员。然而对于军政府和未来的国王来说，把整个国家团结起来仍然是最严峻的挑战。
The royal succession presents the monarchy with an inflection point, and possibly an opportunity.
王位的继承为王室提供了一个转折点，可能也提供了一个机遇。