WASHINGTON — Until his Twitter adventures under the handle @NatSecWonk ended his career this week, Jofi Joseph embodied all the elements of a Washington cliché, down to the security card around his neck. His degree in foreign service was earned at Georgetown, which propelled him to his first job as an analyst in the Congressional Budget Office, the ultimately anonymous D.C. gig.
在以@NatSecWonk这个名字在Twitter上的探险经历自毁前程之前，约菲·约瑟夫(Jofi Joseqh)具备标准华盛顿范儿的所有元素，包括脖子上挂着的安保识别卡。他在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)获得外交事务的学位，这促使他获得了第一份工作——在国会预算办公室担任分析师，一份在华盛顿极其默默无闻的工作。
A Harry S. Truman and Rotary International scholar, he clocked his time on Capitol Hill, working for both Senator Bob Casey, the Democrat from Pennsylvania, and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Then he was off to the executive branch, where he found a perch at the State Department before moving to the White House as a junior staff member on loan to the National Security Council, buried in the deepest weeds of nuclear proliferation.
作为一名哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)学者和国际扶轮社(Rotary International)学者，约瑟夫在国会山(Capitol Hill)一点时间也没浪费，他在为宾夕法尼亚州民主党参议员鲍勃·凯西(Bob Casey)工作的同时，还在为参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)做事。接着又跳到行政部门，在国务院找到一个职位，之后到白宫任职，并作为一名初级幕僚被借调到国家安全委员会(National Security Council)，埋头于防止核扩散这份极为棘手的工作之中。
He liked cycling: check. He hiked. And like so many denizens of both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, Mr. Joseph, 40, took to Twitter to express all manner of things on the mind. In his case, it was musings on foreign policy, observations about the cognitive abilities of his colleagues and a not-so-minor fixation on the appearance of women, generally expressed ungenerously. Sample Twitter message: “Admit it, when you heard Helen Thomas went out on a date with JFK back in the day, you asked yourself, ‘Wait, she was attractive once?’ ”
他喜欢骑车：又是华盛顿范儿。他徒步旅行过。而且和很多住在宾夕法尼亚大道两端的居民一样，40岁的约瑟夫会到Twitter上表达自己各种各样的想法。具体到他的内容，那就是发表些对于外交政策的思考，对同事认知能力的观察，以及对女性外貌的一种程度不轻的癖恋，时常发些不太厚道的评论。比如，他的其中一条Twitter信息这样写道：“别不承认啦，当你听到海伦·托马斯(Helen Thomas，长年报道白宫的女记者——译注)曾和JFK（指约翰·F·肯尼迪。——译注）约会时，你会想，‘等下，她曾经也迷人过？’”
To be fair, he also noted the challenges of Benjamin Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, and his hair follicles. He did it all under his anonymous Twitter account, which, like Mr. Joseph’s public-sector career, was shut down after an investigation by the White House revealed Mr. Joseph’s off-hours activities and dismissed him. Mr. Joseph’s motivations appeared without ideology — he has donated to Democratic candidates but also had a fellowship at a conservative foundation and is married to a Republican Hill staff member.
不过公平地讲，约瑟夫也曾提到副国家安全顾问本杰明·罗兹(Benjamin Rhodes)所面临的挑战，以及他的毛囊。所有这一切都是约瑟夫在自己匿名Twitter账户之下进行的。而在白宫经调查发现约瑟夫的这个业余活动并将他解雇之后，这个账户也和约瑟夫的公务员生涯一样，就此终止了。约瑟夫似乎没有什么意识形态动机——他曾向民主党候选人捐钱，但也得到过一个保守派基金会提供的研究资助，并且娶了一名共和党国会职员。
Nor did the messages have any particular self-promotional purpose — Mr. Joseph had just over 1,500 followers on Twitter, rendering him something close to a nonentity in the foreign policy conversation. But the collateral damage of his public musings was not only to his own promising career — he was headed to a plum job as a senior adviser to the Pentagon’s chief weapons buyer — but perhaps even to the career of his wife, who has her own serious foreign policy credentials.
这些信息也没有任何特别的自我推销目的——约瑟夫在Twitter上仅有1500多个粉丝，而是把自己形容为一个在外交政策对话中无足轻重的小人物。但是，他的公开思考所造成的连带损害不仅断送了他自己本很光明的职业前途——他本来就要得到一份美差，去五角大楼担任军购主管的高级顾问——甚至还可能会伤及他妻子的事业，他妻子本身已在外交政策领域积攒了很不错的资本。
Sample tweet No. 2: “And, hey, @SenBobCorker — are you really taking potshots at Obama when you are running Amateur Hour over there as lead Republican on SFRC?”
约瑟夫的Twitter信息第二例：“然后，喂，@SenBobCorker——你在SFRC当共和党第一号人物当得这么业余，还真敢胡乱骂奥巴马？”
The acronym is for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which employs his wife.
SFRC是参议院外交关系委员会的缩写，约瑟夫的妻子在里面任职。
It’s not Shakespeare; but as tragedies go, it is maybe a bit Woodward.
谈不上莎士比亚水平，但随着悲剧不断展开，伍德沃德(指报道“水门事件”的记者鲍勃·伍德沃德[Bob Woodward]。——译注)的样子还是有了一些。
“I was stunned by the news,” Senator Casey said through a spokeswoman. “I saw no sign of this kind of behavior. This conduct is inexcusable for someone working for the federal government, especially in the area of national security.”
“我被这个消息震惊了，”凯西参议员通过其女发言人表示。“我根本没有料到会出现这种行为。对于一个在联邦政府、尤其是在国家安全部门任职的人而言，这样的行为无法原谅。”
After working on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and advising its chairman at the time, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., on arms control, nonproliferation and military assistance issues, Mr. Joseph worked for Mr. Casey for two years. Mr. Joseph, who was born in Germany, was the sole foreign policy adviser to Mr. Casey, and was remembered in his office as someone quick to understand what issues would best garner news media attention for his boss, a former colleague recalled. But he also was committed to issues that did not draw the media, like conditions in Uganda.
约瑟夫曾在参议院外交关系委员会任职，担任时任外交委员会主席的参议员小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在武器控制、不扩散和军事援助方面的顾问，之后，他为凯西工作了两年。约瑟夫出生于德国，当时是凯西唯一的外交政策顾问。一名同事回忆，在凯西的幕僚中，他是那种能迅速领会什么样的话题能为老板带来新闻媒体关注的人。不过，他也对媒体不感兴趣的话题颇为上心，比如乌干达的局势。
When a soldier from Pennsylvania was electrocuted in Iraq because of faulty wiring in the showers, Mr. Joseph worked “day and night” on Mr. Casey’s behalf to get responses from the Pentagon and military contractors about a problem that had killed other soldiers. “I think he genuinely cared about this,” the colleague said.
当一名来自宾夕法尼亚州的士兵在伊拉克因沐浴间电线故障触电身亡后，约瑟夫代表凯西“没日没夜”地工作，要求五角大楼及军事承包商对这一还曾导致其他士兵丧命的问题做出回应。“我觉得他是真的很关心这件事，”这名同事称。
In 2009, he left to join the Obama administration as a senior adviser to Under Secretary of State Ellen Tauscher, engaging on a range of arms control and nonproliferation efforts.
2009年，他离开国会加入奥巴马政府，担任副国务卿埃伦·陶舍尔(Ellen Tauscher)的高级顾问，参与了一系列军控与核不扩散的工作。
Ms. Tauscher said he was in many ways a model employee: knowledgeable, astute and hard-working. “I’m so dismayed and hurt,” she said, “but I’m also mystified as to how someone who presented himself day in, day out, as responsible and sober could be so self-destructive. As my mother always said, ‘You never know someone.’ ”
陶舍称，约瑟夫在很多方面都是模范员工：博学、机敏又勤奋。“我很惊讶、很伤心，”她说，“我也很困惑，这样一个每天看来都非常负责而理智的人，怎么会有这么严重的自毁倾向？就像我妈妈常说的那样，‘你永远也没法了解一个人。’”
Mr. Joseph’s wife, Carolyn Leddy, has had a career that is the mirror image of his, working for Congressional Republicans and the Bush administration, but checking the same professional boxes: Foreign Relations Committee, State Department and the National Security Council, where she also served as a director of counter-proliferation strategy. Mr. Joseph and Ms. Leddy did not respond to e-mails and phone calls on Thursday. White House advisers, under orders not to speak to reporters about Mr. Joseph, also declined to comment.
约瑟夫的妻子卡罗琳·莱迪(Carolyn Leddy)的职业生涯是他的对立面，她为共和党国会议员和布什政府工作，不过也经历了同样的职业道路：国会外交委员会、国务院和国家安全委员会。在国家安全委员会，她担任的也是应对核扩散方面的主管。约瑟夫与莱迪二人周四均未回应采访电子邮件和电话。白宫幕僚接到指令，不得与记者讨论约瑟夫，因此也都表示无可奉告。
A consistent snapshot of Mr. Joseph emerges from the strands of recollections from his associates and friends in recent years: Of a man who stood out as smart and savvy even in a world full of such people, and as a funny colleague whose humor occasionally tended to the kind of sarcasm and bite that would define his Twitter feed — but not to the personally petty and mean spirit of many of the now-infamous messages. “Like the rest of us, he could be caustic and eviscerate people if he didn’t think they were up to the job,” said a former close colleague of Mr. Joseph. “He’s got an edge, but it wasn’t without purpose.”
从约瑟夫近年来的同事与友人的回忆中，可以得到对他的一致印象。就算是在充满内行聪明人的华盛顿圈子，他也颇显突出；作为一个擅长说笑的同事，他的幽默中有时会展现出他在Twitter上的那种讽刺和尖锐，不过并没有如今臭名远扬的许多帖子中的小心眼和刻薄。“跟我们所有人一样，如果他觉得某人工作不够格，他也会很刻薄，对这个人大加挖苦，”曾与约瑟夫关系密切的一名同事说。“他是有脾气，但不是无缘无故的。”
Now, in retrospect, some associates say that they saw signs of the more negative tendency. Increasingly in recent years, these associates say, Mr. Joseph could convey a sense either of disgruntlement that he was not being recognized as he thought he should be, or of resentment toward those who were getting ahead, undeservedly in his view.
如今回溯，一些熟人表示，他们曾经看出他有更为负面的倾向。这些人称，近几年里，他越来越多地表达出一种情绪，要么是因自认未能获得应有的承认而心怀不满，要么是对他眼中不配的人跑到了前面而有所怨恨。
That animus, some suggest, drove his repeated tweets taking digs at Mr. Rhodes, a more senior National Security Council official who is several years younger than Mr. Joseph.
一些人指出，这种敌意促使他反复在Twitter上挖苦罗兹。比约瑟夫年轻几岁的罗兹在国家安全委员会的级别比他高。
In an era in which tweeting through the day defines, and occasionally derails many American workers, Mr. Joseph may have presaged his own demise. On Sept. 3, he typed: “Will do my best to live Tweet this Syria hearing this afternoon to share my snark — until my boss finds out, that is. And with that ...”
现在这个时代，每天发出的Twitter帖子成为了许多美国职场人士的形象定义，偶尔会让人丢了饭碗。约瑟夫或许已经预见到了自己的噩运。今年9月3日，他写道：“将尽力在Twitter上直播今天下午的叙利亚听证会，分享我的冷嘲热讽——直到被老板发现，就这样。那么……”