The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which pools the efforts of scientists around the globe, has begun releasing draft chapters from its latest assessment, and, for the most part, the reading is as grim as you might expect. We are still on the road to catastrophe without major policy changes.
负责集合世界各地科学家的力量来应对气候变化的政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）已开始公布最新评估报告草稿。从大部分内容看，其描述正如人们可能预想的那样严峻。没有重大政策调整，我们依旧在走向灾难。
But there is one piece of the assessment that is surprisingly, if conditionally, upbeat: Its take on the economics of mitigation. Even as the report calls for drastic action to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, it asserts that the economic impact of such drastic action would be surprisingly small. In fact, even under the most ambitious goals the assessment considers, the estimated reduction in economic growth would basically amount to a rounding error, around 0.06 percent per year.
但有一项评估结果却惊人地乐观，尽管是有条件的：这项评估研究了气候变化减缓的经济学。尽管该报告呼吁采取果断行动限制温室气体排放，但它也断言这种果断行动带来的经济影响却小得出人预料。事实上，即使是依据评估报告所考虑的最大胆目标来加以衡量，估计这种行动对经济增长造成的减少也基本上是可以忽略不计的，约为每年0.06%。
What’s behind this economic optimism? To a large extent, it reflects a technological revolution many people don’t know about, the incredible recent decline in the cost of renewable energy, solar power in particular.
这种经济乐观主义的原因究竟是什么？在很大程度上，它反应了一场许多人并不知晓的技术革命：可再生能源的成本，尤其是太阳能的发电成本，最近出现了令人难以置信的下降。
Before I get to that revolution, however, let’s talk for a minute about the overall relationship between economic growth and the environment.
然而，在论述这场革命之前，我们先略微说说经济增长与环境之间的总体关系。
Other things equal, more G.D.P. tends to mean more pollution. What transformed China into the world’s largest emitter of greenhouse gases? Explosive economic growth. But other things don’t have to be equal. There’s no necessary one-to-one relationship between growth and pollution.
在其它条件相等的条件下，国内生产总值(GDP)数字越大通常就意味着污染更多。是什么让中国变成世界最大的温室气体排放国？是爆炸式的经济发展。然而，其它条件并不是必然相等。经济增长与污染之间并不必然存在共生关系。
People on both the left and the right often fail to understand this point. (I hate it when pundits try to make every issue into a case of “both sides are wrong,” but, in this case, it happens to be true.) On the left, you sometimes find environmentalists asserting that to save the planet we must give up on the idea of an ever-growing economy; on the right, you often find assertions that any attempt to limit pollution will have devastating impacts on growth. But there’s no reason we can’t become richer while reducing our impact on the environment.
左、右两翼人士常常都不明白这一点（我不喜欢那些专家将所有问题都说成“两方都错”，但在这个问题上，这种说法恰恰就是正确的）。在左翼方面，你有时会发现，环保主义者强烈主张，为了拯救地球，我们必须放弃经济不断增长的想法；而在右翼方面，人们常常断言，任何限制污染的努力都会对经济增长产生毁灭性影响。然而，我们没法在增加财富的同时减少对环境的影响，这是没道理的。
Let me add that free-market advocates seem to experience a peculiar loss of faith whenever the subject of the environment comes up. They normally trumpet their belief that the magic of the market can surmount all obstacles — that the private sector’s flexibility and talent for innovation can easily cope with limiting factors like scarcity of land or minerals. But suggest the possibility of market-friendly environmental measures, like a carbon tax or a cap-and-trade system for carbon emissions, and they suddenly assert that the private sector would be unable to cope, that the costs would be immense. Funny how that works.
我还要补充一点。每次只要提出环境问题，主张自由市场的人们似乎都特别地没有信心。他们通常鼓吹自己的信念，认为市场的魔力会克服一切障碍——私营领域的灵活性以及创新才能很容易对付土地或矿物质稀缺这样的限制因素。然而，如果对他们说市场友好型环保措施，如对碳排放实行碳税或碳排放限额交易(cap-and-trade)体系是可能的，他们突然又会断言成本巨大，因而私营领域无法承受。这种矛盾极其可笑！
The sensible position on the economics of climate change has always been that it’s like the economics of everything else — that if we give corporations and individuals an incentive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, they will respond. What form would that response take? Until a few years ago, the best guess was that it would proceed on many fronts, involving everything from better insulation and more fuel-efficient cars to increased use of nuclear power.
合理的立场一直是，气候变化经济学与任何其它方面的经济学完全相同——只要我们给予公司和个人以减少温室气体排放的激励，他们就会做出反应。这种反应会采取什么形式？直到几年前，人们的最佳猜测仍然是，会在许多方面取得进展，包括提高保温效果，更多节能型汽车和增加核电等等。
One front many people didn’t take too seriously, however, was renewable energy. Sure, cap-and-trade might make more room for wind and the sun, but how important could such sources really end up being? And I have to admit that I shared that skepticism. If truth be told, I thought of the idea that wind and sun could be major players as hippie-dippy wishful thinking.
然而，许多人都没有太把可再生能源当回事。没错，碳排放限额交易制度为风电及太阳能发电提供了更大的发展空间，但这些资源说到底会有多重要？我不得不承认本人也曾持怀疑态度。要说实话，我认为风电与太阳能发电成为主角的想法是嬉皮士昏头昏脑的一厢情愿。
But I was wrong.
但我错了。
The climate change panel, in its usual deadpan prose, notes that “many RE [renewable energy] technologies have demonstrated substantial performance improvements and cost reductions” since it released its last assessment, back in 2007. The Department of Energy is willing to display a bit more open enthusiasm; it titled a report on clean energy released last year “Revolution Now.” That sounds like hyperbole, but you realize that it isn’t when you learn that the price of solar panels has fallen more than 75 percent just since 2008.
政府间气候变化专门委员会以其一贯不带感情的措辞指出，自2007年发表上次评估报告之后，“许多可再生能源技术已经显示出了极大的性能提高与成本降低”。美国能源部(Department of Energy)愿意公开展示出更多热情，去年发布的一份有关清洁能源的报告标题就是《现在革命》(Revolution Now)。听上去有点夸张，但是了解到仅仅是从2008年起，太阳能组件价格已下降超过75%以后，你就会觉得这并不夸张。
Thanks to this technological leap forward, the climate panel can talk about “decarbonizing” electricity generation as a realistic goal — and since coal-fired power plants are a very large part of the climate problem, that’s a big part of the solution right there.
由于这一技术的飞跃，政府间气候变化专门委员会现在能够将“脱碳”发电作为一种现实目标来谈了——由于燃煤发电构成了气候问题的很大一部分，解决方案的一个重点也应该在那里。