The environmentalist group Sea Shepherd has called off its annual pursuit of Japanese whaling ships in the Southern Ocean, according to the group’s founder, who said it cannot keep up with Japan’s surveillance technology.
环保组织海洋守护者协会(Sea Shepherd)取消了在南大洋追踪日本捕鲸船的活动，该组织的创始人表示，他们无法应对日本的监视技术。
“What we discovered is that Japan is now employing military surveillance to watch Sea Shepherd ship movements in real time by satellite,” the group’s founder, Paul Watson, said in a statement. “If they know where our ships are at any given moment, they can easily avoid us.”
“我们发现，日本现在利用军事监视技术，通过卫星实时监控海洋守护者协会的动态，”该组织的创始人保罗·沃森(Paul Watson)在一份声明中说。“如果他们随时都知道我们船只的位置，就可以很容易地避开我们。”
Sea Shepherd, a self described “eco-vigilante” group founded in 1977, has spent years patrolling the remote Southern Ocean, investigating and documenting illegal fishing and whaling operations, putting it directly at odds with Japanese vessels. In addition to filming the operations, the group uses confrontational tactics that include shooting water cannon and stink bombs at the Japanese vessels.
海洋守护者协会自称“生态保卫组织”，成立于1977年，多年来，他们在偏远的南大洋巡逻，调查并记录非法的捕鱼和捕鲸行动，因此和日本船只处在针锋相对的状态。除了拍摄日本的活动之外，该组织还开展了一些对抗性的做法，包括向日本船只发射水炮和臭气弹。
Mr. Watson maintains that his group acts within the law. “We never caused a single injury to any person in all of these years,” he said in an interview. “The criminals are quite plain to see.”
沃森坚称，该组织是在法律范围内行事。“我们这些年来从来没有对任何一个人造成任何伤害。”他在接受采访时说。“罪犯是谁，这是明摆着的事。”
Since 2005, Sea Shepherd has patrolled the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary, a protected area where whaling is prohibited. A few nations, including Japan, have special research permits that allow for some whaling.
自2005年以来，海洋守护者协会就开始在南大洋的鲸鱼保护区巡逻，这是一个禁止捕鲸的保护区。而包括日本在内的几个国家拥有特殊的研究许可证，可以开展一些捕鲸活动。
Sea Shepherd says its investigations and documentation have helped save thousands of whales over the years it patrolled the sanctuary. Its annual operation began with one ship and grew to a fleet of five.
海洋守护者协会说，多年来，他们对这处保护区进行巡查，相关调查和记录帮助拯救了数以千计的鲸鱼。他们最开始只有一艘船开展年度行动，后来增加到了五艘。
In 2014, Japan’s Antarctic whaling was ruled illegal by the International Court of Justice. That brought a halt to a program that, in the name of research, had left thousands of minke, humpback and fin whales dead over 26 years. Japan revived the whaling in 2015 under a new program with a self-imposed quota, though it has been condemned by scientists.
2014年，国际法院判定日本的南极捕鲸行为非法，终止了日本以研究名义开展的捕鲸活动；26年来，已经有数以千计的小须鲸、座头鲸和长须鲸为此丧生。但日本在2015年通过一个新的项目恢复了捕鲸活动，他们自己为这个项目设定了一个配额，不过还是遭到了科学家的谴责。
Mr. Watson said his small fleet could not compete with the government-backed whaling ships, but resources are only part of the problem for Sea Shepherd. The passage of antiterrorism laws, “some of which are specifically designed to condemn Sea Shepherd tactics,” further threaten operations, Mr. Watson said.
沃森说，他的小船队无法和日本政府支持的捕鲸船匹敌，但资源只是该协会面对的问题之一。反恐法的通过，“有些是特别制定的，旨在谴责海洋守护者协会的战术”，它们对协会的行动造成了进一步的威胁，沃森说道。
Japan’s Institute of Cetacean Research, which carries out the whaling operations, says on its website that Sea Shepherd’s actions in the South Ocean amount to “terrorism and threaten human life at sea.”
开展捕鲸活动的日本鲸类研究所在网站上表示，海洋守护者协会在南大洋的行动相当于“恐怖主义，对海上的人身安全构成了威胁”。
The institute said Sea Shepherd methods included “illegal boarding and ramming of research vessels” and “increasingly dangerous and violent sabotage methods which include entangling devices (propeller foulers), throwing and shooting of chemical-containing projectiles, smoke bombs and incendiary devices.”
鲸类研究所说，海洋守护者协会的手段包括“非法登上研究船，捣毁船只”，还“使用越来越危险，暴力破坏的方式，包括发射缠绕装置（缠住推进器），投掷及发射含有化学物质的弹药、烟弹和燃烧装置”。
Videos recorded by Sea Shepherd show Japanese vessels ramming its ships.
海洋守护者协会录制的视频显示，日本船只撞击了该组织的船只。
While Sea Shepherd will not send ships to the Southern Ocean this year, Mr. Watson vowed that the group would return. And in the meantime, the group is patrolling other waters.
虽然今年的海洋守护者协会不会派船到南大洋了，沃森立誓他们以后会恢复行动。而在此期间，这个组织正在其他水域巡逻。
“We need to cultivate the resources, the tactics and the ability to significantly shut down the illegal whaling operations of the Japanese whaling fleet,” Mr. Watson said. He said Australia, which took Japan to the International Court of Justice in 2010, has the responsibility to monitor the Japanese whaling fleet.
沃森说：“我们需要培育资源、研究战术，掌握显著阻止日本捕鲸船非法捕鲸的能力。”他说澳大利亚有责任监视日本的捕鲸船队。澳大利亚在2010年把日本诉至国际法院。
“Sea Shepherd has been down in the Southern Ocean doing what the Australian government has the responsibility to do but have refused to do, and that is upholding international and Australian conservation law,” Mr. Watson said.
沃森说：“海洋守护者协会在南大洋从事澳大利亚政府有责任做却拒绝做的事情，这是在维护国际和澳大利亚的保护法。”