For one brief, shining moment on Sunday night in Las Vegas, Miss Colombia, Ariadna Gutiérrez Arévalo, was crowned Miss Universe.
拉斯维加斯——周日晚间，哥伦比亚小姐阿莉艾娜‧古提耶雷兹‧阿雷瓦洛(Ariadna Gutierrez Arevalo)在拉斯维加斯戴上了环球小姐(Miss Universe)的后冠，享受了一阵短暂的璀璨时光。
And then the pageant’s host, Steve Harvey, realized that he had misread the card on which the winners were listed.
随后，这场选美比赛的主持人史蒂夫‧哈维(Steve Harvey)意识到自己看错了优胜者名单。
It was a gaffe made for the age of Twitter, GIFs, Vines and 24/7 social media snark. Almost as soon as the mistake was made, it was memed.
在这个Twitter、GIF动画、Vine短片与社交媒体上的毒舌派全天候活跃的年代，这次失误来得再好不过了。几乎事件发生的同时，各种网络恶搞就已经出笼了。
Mr. Harvey did not realize his mistake until after Ms. Gutiérrez had begun to soak up the glory of the title.
直到古提耶雷兹已经沉浸在拔得头筹的荣耀之中，哈维才发现自己捅了娄子。
She was standing center stage, holding a bouquet of flowers with the glittering crown perched atop her head, waving, waving, waving to the audience, when Mr. Harvey sheepishly returned to the stage, his steps slow and heavy.
古提耶雷兹站在舞台中央，手捧花束、头戴光彩夺目的后冠，向观众挥手、挥手、再挥手。就在此时，哈维踏着千斤重的缓慢步伐，局促不安地返回台上。
“O.K., folks, uh,” he stammered. “There’s. ... I have to apologize.”
“哎呀，各位，呃，”他结结巴巴地说。“有件事呢……我必须要道歉。”
The crowd laughed, and Ms. Gutiérrez laughed, too, unaware of her impending fate.
观众都笑了，古提耶雷兹也是，浑然不知她即将面对的命运。
“The first runner-up is Colombia,” he said, to the screams of the audience.
“哥伦比亚小姐是亚军，”哈维在观众的呼喊声中宣布。
The cameras panned rapidly back and forth among Mr. Harvey, Ms. Gutiérrez and the actual winner, Miss Philippines, Pia Alonzo Wurtzbach. Looks of confusion, shock and mortification abounded.
摄影机快速地在哈维、古提耶雷兹，还有真正的冠军，菲律宾小姐琵雅‧阿隆索‧伍兹巴赫(Pia Alonzo Wurtzbach)之间切换，三人脸上满是困惑、震惊与窘迫的神情。
“Miss Universe 2015 is Philippines,” he exclaimed.
“2015年度环球小姐是菲律宾小姐，”他高声说道。
Ms. Wurtzbach walked awkwardly forward, seemingly unsure of what to do.
伍兹巴赫尴尬地走上前去，一副不知所措的样子。
Mr. Harvey, a comedian and talk show host, apologized effusively and made a point of showing the card to the cameras to prove that the second crowning of the night was, in fact, the correct one.
哈维这个笑星与脱口秀主持人，竭尽所能地道歉，还对着摄像机亮出写着优胜者名单的卡片，以证明当晚第二位戴上后冠的人才是真正的赢家。
“Horrible mistake, but the right thing,” he said. “I can show it to you right here. The first runner-up is Colombia.”
“好糟糕的错误，不过这才是正确结果，”他说。“我现在就可以拿出证明给你们看，亚军是哥伦比亚小姐。”
Mr. Harvey did not stick around, heading swiftly for stage right as Miss Philippines took her place beside Miss Colombia, still clutching her flowers and wearing the crown.
哈维没有多作停留，他在菲律宾小姐站到哥伦比亚小姐身旁后就迅速退场，彼时哥伦比亚小姐仍头戴后冠，紧握着花束。
The two contestants stood awkwardly side by side, a smile on neither face, while one woman was de-crowned and the other was crowned.
两位佳丽难堪地并肩而立，在后冠从一人头上转移到另一人头上的时候，她们谁也笑不出来。
Later, Mr. Harvey turned to Twitter to apologize for his mistake in a post that misspelled the names of both countries. He later deleted the message — but not before it was retweeted more than 30,000 times.
哈维稍晚在Twitter上为自己出的差错道歉，但他把那两个国家的名字都写错了。不久后他删除了这则推文，不过当时它已经被转发了三万多次。
“I want to apologize emphatically to Miss Philippians and Miss Columbia,” he wrote. “This was a terribly honest human mistake and I am so regretful.”
“我要向灰律宾(Philippians)小姐和哥隆比亚(Columbia)小姐郑重道歉，”他写道，“这个可怕的错误完全是无心之过，我实在是很遗憾。”这两个国家英文分别拼作Philippines和Colombia。
He added in another post: “Secondly, I’d like to apologize to the viewers at that I disappointed as well. Again it was an honest mistake.”
他在另一则推文里又表示：“此外，我也想要向那些因为我而扫兴的观众道歉。再次强调，这真的不是故意的。”
For many years, Donald J. Trump, the real-estate developer, entrepreneur and candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, owned a portion of the Miss Universe Organization, which runs the pageant, as well as Miss USA and other competitions. NBC owned a portion of the company as well.
在很多年时间里，地产大亨、企业家与共和党总统提名角逐者唐纳德‧J‧特朗普(Donald J. Trump)曾拥有过环球小姐组织(Miss Universe Organization)的部分股权。环球小姐组织是这次选美活动的主办单位，也负责举办美国小姐(Miss USA)选拔及其他赛事。美国全国广播公司(NBC)也曾共同持有该组织的股份。
But when Mr. Trump came under fire this past summer for comments he made about undocumented immigrants during his presidential campaign, NBC ended its business relationships with him and sold its stake in the organization to him. Mr. Trump, in turn, sold the organization to the WME-IMG talent agency.
不过特朗普在今年夏天进行总统竞选活动时，因为他对无证件移民所作的评论而成为众矢之的。NBC旋即中止了与他的商业合作关系，并把该组织的股份卖给了特朗普。而特朗普又接着把这个组织转卖给了艺人经纪公司WME-IMG。
On Sunday night, after the chaos of the Miss Universe pageant, Mr. Trump used his Twitter account, @realdonaldtrump, to retweet a comment from another user who asked, “Where’s @realdonaldtrump when you need em?”
周一晚间，在环球小姐选美盛典的混乱场面过后， 特朗普用自己的Twitter帐号@realdonaldtrump转发了另一个用户的提问：“在这亟需@realdonaldtrump的时刻，他人在哪儿呢？”