ISTANBUL — Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has led Turkey for more than a decade, is set to become the country's first popularly elected president, cruising to what seemed to be an easy victory Sunday that positioned him to be the dominant political figure here for at least five more years.
伊斯坦布尔——土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)将成为该国首位全民直选产生的总统。埃尔多安已领导土耳其逾十年，周日大选轻松取胜，让他至少在五年内继续主导土耳其政坛。
The news media declared the victory even though official results will not be published for several days. It came after the most tumultuous year of Erdogan's tenure in national politics, with the challenges of sweeping anti-government protests and a corruption investigation focused on him and those around him.
尽管数日后官方才会公布大选结果，媒体已断言埃尔多安的胜选。时值埃尔多安在国内政坛最动荡的一年，他不但面临反政府示威席卷全国的挑战，还有针对他的腐败调查。
Erdogan took 52 percent of the vote Sunday, the highest percentage in his political career, according to provisional results published by the semiofficial Anadolu News Agency, which proclaimed him the winner. He has emerged from the past year not only as a survivor but as someone who, analysts predict, will look to expand his power from the office of the presidency.
半官方的土耳其阿纳多卢通讯社(Anadolu News Agency)发布大选暂时结果，称埃尔多安在周日选举中赢得了52%的选票，已经胜选。分析人士预计，他不仅熬过去年，还将寻求扩张总统权力。
Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, a former diplomat who was the candidate of the main secular and nationalist parties, received 38 percent, according to the unofficial results.
根据非官方计票结果，前外交官、世俗及民族主义主要党派候选人埃克梅勒丁·伊赫桑奥卢(Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu)得票率为38%。
After voting in the Uskudar neighborhood in Istanbul, a confident Erdogan, 60, was quoted in news reports as saying: “I believe our nation had the chance to consider many things — about yesterday, today and tomorrow. They will make an important decision for Turkish democracy, for the future of country.”
据媒体报道，在伊斯坦布尔斯屈达尔(Uskudar)投票后，60岁充满自信的埃尔多安表示：“我认为，我们的国家有机会思考许多事情——关于昨天、今天和明天。他们为土耳其民主和这个国家的未来做出了一项重要决定。”
Turnout was relatively low, as many Turks assumed Erdogan would win.
由于土耳其许多民众预计埃尔多安会胜选，投票参与率相对较低。
Even though the election felt like a coronation, a great deal is at stake for the Turkish political system. From the presidency — a post that is less powerful than that of prime minister, limited in part by the constitution and in part by tradition — Erdogan is expected to maximize the powers of the office, arguing that he has a popular mandate to do so.
尽管这次大选感觉像一场加冕，土耳其政治体制正面临一个关键时刻。根据宪法和传统，土耳其总统权力不及总理职位，埃尔多安预计将以有民众赋权为由，最大化总统权力。