BEIJING — Prosecutors in China have indicted 74 people in connection with the killing of 17 people whose corpses were used to invent fake mining accidents and to extract compensation owed to victims’ families.
北京——中国检察机关对74人发起指控，他们涉嫌杀害17人，用尸体伪造假矿难，获取本属于遇难者家属的赔偿金。
The crimes spanned six provinces and regions, including Shanxi and Inner Mongolia — two of China’s biggest coal-mining areas — and charges included faking accidents, swindling compensation, homicide, fraud and concealing crimes, prosecutors from Inner Mongolia said in a statement on Monday that was widely reported on Tuesday.
这种罪行在六个省市和地区发生过，包括中国两个最大的煤炭矿区山西和内蒙古。内蒙古检察机关本周一发表声明，称嫌疑人被控伪造矿难，骗取赔偿款，涉嫌故意杀人罪、诈骗罪、敲诈勒索罪、掩饰、隐瞒犯罪所得罪等。该声明在周二获得了广泛报道。
The statement identified two of the defendants but otherwise provided no details about them, and it gave no information about the victims. The prosecutors’ office refused to answer questions about the case when reached by telephone. But Caixin, a business newsmagazine, said on its website that the victims had mostly been poor villagers from Yunnan Province, in southwest China.
声明列出了两名被告的名字，但没有提到有关他们的任何细节，也没有提供受害者的信息。我们致电检察官办公室询问该案状况时，对方拒绝回答。但商业新闻杂志网站财新网表示，受害者主要是中国西南部省份云南省的贫困村民。
“Promising targets were cheated into mines in the name of work recruitment,” the report said, citing unnamed sources familiar with the case. “After working there for a while, they were killed when the right time came, and a scene was devised to swindle the compensation.”
报道说，他们“以招工为名将物色好的对象骗到矿上，打一段时间工，寻机作案将人打死，伪造现场，骗取赔偿”。
The report said that there might have been more than 17 victims, but that it was possible that victims could not be traced because they were quickly cremated and their ashes were not kept, it said.
报道还说，可能嫌犯作案远不止17起，只是很多遇难者因为尸体被迅速火化，骨灰也被丢弃，无迹可寻。
The police first suspected fraud early last year, after one of the intended victims survived a faked accident in Inner Mongolia, the report said.
报道说，警方最初对这一系列欺诈活动产生怀疑是在去年年初，当时内蒙古一起伪造矿难的一名受害者幸存了下来。
A well-known Chinese film, “Blind Shaft,” released in 2003, told a similar story, about a pair of grifters who make a brutal living by persuading young men to work in mines under false names, so that their families could not be found when they were killed in fabricated accidents.
2003年有一部出名的中国电影《盲井》，讲述了两个农民工将打工者诱骗到矿区，然后杀害，制造事故假象，再冒充死者家属向矿主索要赔偿的故事。
The case revealed this week is not unique. Newspaper reports have described several elaborate schemes involving murder or stolen corpses to extract compensation from mine owners.
本周披露的这个案子并非个例。之前已经有报纸报道过好几起精心策划的案件，作案者不是谋杀他人，就是盗取尸体，意图从矿主那里骗取赔偿金。
In 2014, a court in Hebei Province, in northern China, gave death sentences to five defendants and prison sentences to 16 others for having recruited men to work in mines under false names and then killing them for the hush money. News reports and trial summaries have described similar cases in 2009, 2010 and twice in 2012.
2014年，中国北方省份河北省一所法院判处五名被告死刑，16人监禁。这些人用假名招人到矿井工作，然后杀害他们，获取封口费。2009和2010年的新闻报道和审判摘要中也出现过类似案件，2012年还出现过两次。
“Scenes like those in ‘Blind Shaft’ are played out again and again in real life,” one newspaper, the Chongqing Morning Post, said about the latest case.
“类似电影《盲井》的场景在现实中一次次地发生着，”《重庆晨报》在报道这起最新案件时说。