This week the Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee — the group of men and women who set U.S. monetary policy — will be holding its sixth meeting of 2013. At the meeting’s end, the committee is widely expected to announce the so-called “taper” — a slowing of the pace at which it buys long-term assets.
本周，美联储的公开市场委员会——设定美国货币政策的那群男男女女——将举行2013年的第六次会议。外界普遍预计，委员会将在会议结束时宣布所谓的“逐步缩减”计划——放慢长期资产的购买速度。
Memo to the Fed: please don’t do it. True, the arguments for a taper are neither crazy nor stupid, which makes them unusual for current U.S. policy debate. But if you think about the balance of risks, this is a bad time to be doing anything that looks like a tightening of monetary policy.
但我要劝美联储一句：别这么做。的确，“逐步缩减”的理由既不疯狂也不愚蠢，这在美国当前的政策辩论中实属难得。但是，如果以风险平衡为考量，现在采取任何类似于收紧货币政策的行动都不是时候。
O.K., what are we talking about here? In normal times, the Fed tries to guide the economy by buying and selling short-term U.S. debt, which effectively lets it control short-term interest rates. Since 2008, however, short-term rates have been near zero, which means that they can’t go lower (since people would just hoard cash instead). Yet the economy has remained weak, so the Fed has tried to gain traction though unconventional measures — mainly by buying longer-term bonds, both U.S. government debt and bonds issued by federally sponsored home-lending agencies.
好吧，让我们看看这到底是怎么一回事。在正常情况下，美联储通过购买和出售短期债券指引经济发展，并因此有效地控制着短期利率。然而，自从2008年以来，短期利率一直接近于零，这意味着它已经不能再低了（否则人们会囤积现金）。但经济仍然乏力，因此美联储尝试通过非常规手段获得助力——主要是购买更长期的债券，这既包括美国政府债券，也包括联邦支持的住房贷款机构发行的债券。
Now the Fed is talking about slowing the pace of these purchases, bringing them to a complete halt by sometime next year. Why?
现在，美联储开始讨论放缓这些债券的购买速度，到明年的某个时候完全终止购买，为什么？
One answer is the belief that these purchases — especially purchases of government debt — are, in the end, not very effective. There’s a fair bit of evidence in support of that belief, and for the view that the most effective thing the Fed can do is signal that it plans to keep short-term rates, which it really does control, low for a very long time.
一个原因是，有人认为，购买这些债券——尤其政府债券——不是十分有效。有不少证据可以支持这种看法。还有一种观点认为，美联储能采取的最有效的行动是表明其打算令短期利率长期处于较低水平。美联储的确控制着短期利率。
Unfortunately, financial markets have clearly decided that the taper signals a general turn away from boosting the economy: expectations of future short-term rates have risen sharply since taper talk began, and so have crucial long-term rates, notably mortgage rates. In effect, by talking about tapering, the Fed has already tightened monetary policy quite a lot.
不幸的是，金融市场已经认定，“逐步缩减”意味着基本上停止刺激经济的行动：自从有关“逐步缩减”的讨论出现之后，对未来短期利率的预期已经飙升，重要的长期利率也是如此，尤其是抵押贷款利率。事实上，通过谈论“逐步缩减”，美联储已经获得了收紧货币政策的效果。
But is that such a bad thing? That’s where the second argument comes in: the suggestions that there really isn’t that much slack in the U.S. economy, that we aren’t that far from full employment. After all, the unemployment rate, which peaked at 10 percent in late 2009, is now down to 7.3 percent, and there are economists who believe that the U.S. economy might begin to “overheat,” to show signs of accelerating inflation, at an unemployment rate as high as 6.5 percent. Time for the Fed to take its foot off the gas pedal?
但是，购买债券的结果有那么糟吗？于是第二个理由出现了：一些迹象显示，美国经济实际上并没有那么不景气，我们距离充分就业也没那么遥远。毕竟，失业率已经从2009年年末的峰值10%降到了7.3%。有一些经济学家认为，在失业率达到6.5%的时候，美国经济可能开始过热，开始显示出通胀加速的迹象。现在是美联储松开油门的时候了？
I’d say no, for a couple of reasons.
我认为并非如此，理由如下。
First, there’s less to that decline in unemployment than meets the eye. Unemployment hasn’t come down because a higher percentage of adults is employed; it’s come down almost entirely because a declining percentage of adults is participating in the labor force, either by working or by actively seeking work. And at least some of the Americans who dropped out of the labor force after 2007 will come back in as the economy improves, which means that we have more ground to make up than that unemployment number suggests.
首先，失业人数的下降并不像我们看到的那样明显。失业率下降并不是因为就业的成年人的比例上升，完全是因为参与劳动力大军的成年人（包括正在工作的成年人和在积极寻找工作的成年人）的比例在不断下降。随着经济的改善，至少一部分在2007年之后退出劳动力大军的美国人将会重新进入就业市场，这意味着我们需要提供的工作数量远远超过目前的失业人数。
How misleading is the unemployment number? That’s a hard one, on which reasonable people disagree. The question the Fed should be asking is, what is the balance of risks?
失业率的数字有多大误导性？这个问题很难回答，即使是理性的人们也无法得出统一意见。美联储应该问的问题是，怎样实现风险平衡?
Suppose, on one side, that the Fed were to hold off on tightening, then learn that the economy was closer to full employment than it thought. What would happen? Well, inflation would rise, although probably only modestly. Would that be such a bad thing? Right now inflation is running below the Fed’s target of 2 percent, and many serious economists — including, for example, the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund — have argued for a higher target, say 4 percent. So the cost of tightening too late doesn’t look very high.
一方面，假设美联储推迟收紧货币政策，结果发现经济比其认为的更加接近充分就业。那会怎样？通胀会上升，虽然可能只是小幅上升。这有那么糟糕吗？目前的通胀水平保持在美联储2%的目标之下，许多严肃的经济学家——包括国际货币基金组织的首席经济学家——认为，应该设定更高的通胀目标，比如4%。因此，过晚收紧货币政策的成本看起来并不是很高。
Suppose, on the other side, that the Fed were to tighten early, then learn that it had moved too soon. This could damage an already weak recovery, causing hundreds of billions if not trillions of dollars in economic damage, leaving hundreds of thousands if not millions of additional workers without jobs and inflicting long-term damage as more and more of the unemployed are perceived as unemployable.
另一方面，假设美联储早早地收紧货币政策，则可能会破坏已经脆弱的经济复苏，导致数千亿甚至数万亿美元的经济损失，使额外数十万甚至数百万的工人失去工作，并产生长期的破坏性影响，因为越来越多的失业者被认为无法就业。
The point is that while there is legitimate uncertainty about what the Fed should be doing, the costs of being too harsh vastly exceed the costs of being too lenient. To err is human; to err on the side of growth is wise.
关键是，尽管美联储应该采取何种行动的不确定性注定存在，但与过于宽松相比，过于严厉的风险更大。犯错是正常的，但选择风险更小的错误才是明智之举。
I’d add that one of the prevailing economic policy sins of our time has been allowing hypothetical risks, like the fiscal crisis that never came, to trump concerns over economic damage happening in the here and now. I’d hate to see the Fed fall into that trap.
我还要补充一点，我们这个时代最普遍的经济政策错误，就是把假设中的风险——比如从来没有出现的财政危机——置于对当下经济破坏的担忧之上。我讨厌看到美联储掉进这个陷阱。
So my message is, don’t do it. Don’t taper, don’t tighten, until you can see the whites of inflation’s eyes. Give jobs a chance.
所以，我要传递的信息是，别这么做。不要“逐步缩减”，不要收紧货币政策，除非你真的看到了通胀的影子。给就业市场一个机会。