LOS ANGELES — With no shade from the Southern California sun, the 90,000 plastic seats inside the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum have faded almost to white in some places. The handrails have rusted, and the steps have grown treacherous where concrete has been patched countless times.
洛杉矶——洛杉矶纪念体育场(Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum)没有遮阳罩，南加州的阳光将这里的9万个塑料座椅晒得褪了色，其中一些几乎完全变白。扶手锈迹斑斑，一些台阶虽然已经用水泥修补过无数次，却仍然不太坚实。
Built for the 1932 Olympics, and used again as the host stadium in 1984, the Coliseum now stands as a symbol of what a third Summer Games in Los Angeles would offer in 2024.
这座体育馆是为1932年奥运会修建的，并在1984年再次成为主办赛场。现在，它是洛杉矶申办2024年该市第三次夏季奥运会的象征。
No matter what repairs are undertaken, this Coliseum will never offer the grandeur of recent Olympic stadiums in London or Beijing. But many of the venues are already in place here, which could help make the Games in Los Angeles billions cheaper to put on than they would be almost anywhere else.
无论怎样加以修缮，这座体育场也展示不出几年前伦敦和北京奥运场馆的那种恢宏。但洛杉矶已经有很多现成的场馆，因此与在其他几乎任何地方举办奥运会相比，在这里举办奥运的花费，可能都会便宜数十亿美元。
The I.O.C. president, Thomas Bach, has pushed for a shift toward less expensive Games in response to widespread public backlash in recent years when hosts like Beijing and Sochi poured billions of dollars into their Olympics. Los Angeles, in some ways, has emerged as an economically sensible option for 2024.
近年来，北京和索契等东道主在奥运会上花费了数以十亿美元计的资金，引发了广泛的公众反对，因此国际奥委会(IOC)主席托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)已经开始推动节俭办奥运的转变。从某些方面来说，2024年奥运会在洛杉矶举办，在经济上是理智的选择。
“Los Angeles is the ideal Olympic city,” Mayor Eric Garcetti said in an email. “We have endless diversity, attractions and scenic beauty as well as world-class venues that are ready to host the Olympics and make it profitable as it was in 1984 and 1932.”
“洛杉矶是理想的奥运举办城市，”该市市长埃里克·加希提(Eric Garcetti)在电邮中表示。“我们有无尽的多样性、旅游景点和优美景色，还有现成的世界级奥运场馆，能从举办奥运会中盈利，就像在1984年和1932年一样。”
Los Angeles has not yet officially re-entered the race for the 2024 Games, but it is considered the likeliest American candidate following the collapse of Boston’s bid last month. (The United States Olympic Committee originally chose Boston over Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington in January.) The field also includes Paris, Rome, Budapest and Hamburg, Germany.
洛杉矶尚未正式申办2024年奥运会，但上个月波士顿中途退出之后，人们认为它是最有可能接手的城市。（美国奥委会最初在今年1月选择由波士顿申办奥运，而不是洛杉矶、旧金山和华盛顿。）其他国家的申办城市还有巴黎、罗马、布达佩斯和德国汉堡。
Garcetti said in the email that he was planning to discuss “how to present the strongest possible bid,” one that would also be “fiscally responsible,” with the U.S.O.C.
加希提在电子邮件中说，他计划与美国奥委会讨论“如何最有力地进行申办”，同时也做到“在财政上负责”。
Some residents here worry that the success of the 1984 Olympics, which remains by some estimates the most profitable Games in Olympic history, will be tough to replicate.
该市一些居民担心，1984年奥运会的成功很难复制。据一些人估计，那仍然是奥运历史上最赚钱的一届奥运会。
Jack Humphreville, who moved here during the 1984 Olympics, said Los Angeles had an advantage, given the existing stadiums and infrastructure. That does not mean he wants the Games to come back, though.
杰克·亨菲维尔(Jack Humphreville)在1984年奥运会期间搬到洛杉矶，他说该市有一个优势，就是一些体育场馆和基础设施已经就位。但这并不意味着他希望该市再次举办奥运会。
Even with the existing venues, he worries about the costs of upgrading facilities and roads, building housing for the athletes, as well as other expenses that might not yet be apparent. And in a change from 1984, the city taxpayers would most likely be on the hook to fund any cost overruns.
尽管有现成的场地，但是他仍然会担心设施、道路升级、为运动员修建住所的费用，以及其他一些尚未显露出来的开支。与1984年不同的是，如果出现费用超支，洛杉矶的纳税人很可能会被套牢。
“My issue is how we’re going to pay for it,” Humphreville, 68, said. “The city can’t even fix our potholes. We have underfunded pensions. We don’t have the financial capabilities to backstop an event like this.”
“我的问题是，我们如何为它买单，”68岁的亨菲维尔说。“这座城市连马路上的坑洼都没修复好，我们的养老基金也资金不足。我们没有足够的经济能力承担这样的活动。”
No proper polling has been done yet, but Humphreville seems to be in the minority here. Unlike Boston, where a public backlash helped sink that city’s bid, Los Angeles has not had any organized opposition emerge.
虽然尚无正式的民调结果，但亨菲维尔在这里似乎是少数派。之前波士顿公众反应强烈，导致该城的申办工作半途而废，但洛杉矶尚未出现任何有组织的反对活动。
Instead, news that Boston had dropped out of the race was met with enthusiasm, with some residents convinced that their city would avoid the budget overruns that had befallen hosts like Athens and London.
相反，民众对波士顿退出申办的消息表现出了热情。一些民众相信，洛杉矶可以避免发生在雅典和伦敦等举办城市的预算超支问题。
“We’re going to get it — we deserve it,” said Rosemary Walker, who has lived in Los Angeles on and off for 60 years. “What’s great about it coming back is that we have all the venues set up and ready to go, so it’s just not going to be as cost prohibitive as it would be for other cities. We just have to spruce up a bit.”
“我们会获得举办权，我们理应成功，”罗斯玛丽·沃克(Rosemary Walker)说。她断断续续地在洛杉矶生活了60年。“奥运会回到洛杉矶的好处在于，我们所有场馆都是现成的，都准备好了，因此完全不会像其他城市那样，需要投入令人望而却步的成本。我们只需要收拾打扫一下。”
Bill Plaschke, a sports columnist for The Los Angeles Times, was even willing to put the city’s athletic rivalry with Boston on hold for a day.
《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)的体育专栏作家比尔·普拉施克(Bill Plaschke)甚至愿意让洛杉矶和波士顿在体育领域的竞争暂停一天。
“Thank you, Boston, for perhaps bringing the Olympics back to the only place in the world that is already built for them,” he wrote. “This almost makes up for the Boston Garden thermostat, Dave Henderson’s home run, Kevin McHale’s clothesline, Paul Pierce’s wheelchair, and maybe even Frank McCourt?”
“谢谢你，波士顿，你的举动可能会让奥运会回到世界上唯一已经建设好，可以迎接它的地方，”他写道。“这几乎弥补了波士顿花园(Boston Garden)的自动调温器、戴维·亨德森(Dave Henderson)的全垒打、凯文·麦克海尔(Kevin McHale)的‘晾衣绳式犯规’、保罗·皮尔斯(Paul Pierce)的轮椅，甚至可能还有弗兰克·迈考特(Frank McCourt)？”
But the bid committee here has not yet released a detailed financial plan. And Stefan Szymanski, professor of sports management and economics at the University of Michigan who conducted an independent audit of the 2012 Olympics in London, said that early support for the Olympics would often evaporate as the projected costs mount.
但是这里的竞标委员会还没有发布详细的财务计划。斯特凡·斯兹曼斯基(Stefan Szymanski)是密歇根大学(University of Michigan)运动管理与经济学的教授，他对2012年伦敦奥运会进行了一次独立审计，他说对奥运会的早期支持会通常随着预期成本的增加而消失。
“Once people see the real costs of what needs to be done, then they sometimes take a different view,” he said, adding that almost all host cities have taken an economic hit. “Public opinion is catching up with the economic evidence.”
“人们一旦看到所需要做的事情的真正成本，有时就会改变看法，”他表示，还说几乎所有的主办城市都承受了经济打击。“公众的观点终正在与经济现实趋于一致。”
Sports economists have projected that despite existing stadiums here — with the Staples Center, a professional soccer stadium, facilities at the local universities and even a velodrome for cycling — hosting the Olympics will hardly be cheap. Just building the Olympic Village and media center could run to $3 billion.
体育经济学家们已经做出预测，即便这里已有数个体育场：斯台普斯中心(Staples Center)、一个职业足球场、当地大学的各种设施，甚至有一个室内自行车赛场，要承办奥运会还是不便宜。仅建设奥运村和媒体中心就可能花掉30亿美元。
Szymanski also suggested that the I.O.C. might be reluctant to bring the Olympics back to Los Angeles — and to the Coliseum — yet again, despite its new goal of producing more affordable Games.
斯兹曼斯基还表示国际奥委会可能不情愿让奥运会再一次回到洛杉矶以及洛杉矶体育场，尽管其新目标是打造成本更合理的运动会。
“We’ve seen massive investment in stadiums over the last 30 years, so it’s going to be a vastly different proposition than it was in 1984,” he said. “Part of the problem for an L.A. bid is, it may be relatively cheap, but what would its legacy for the Olympic movement and human development be?”
“在过去的30年里我们看到了对体育场的巨大投资，所以和1984年相比提案将非常的不同，”他说“洛杉矶竞标的一个问题是，它也许相对便宜，但是能为奥林匹克运动和人类发展留下什么遗产？”
Certainly, the Coliseum needs major upgrades. In addition to the cracking concrete, the electrical system is failing. Sound projects from only one end of the stadium, and because of its old-school bowl design, it is difficult to add speakers throughout the arena, officials said.
当然，洛杉矶体育场需要大规模的升级改善。除去裂开的水泥，电力系统也不行了。声音仅从体育场的一端放出来，而且由于老式的碗型设计，难以在全场添加扩音器，有关人员说道。
The University of Southern California, whose football team plays at the Coliseum, has committed to making about $70 million in repairs to the stadium, such as replacing all the seats. University officials said they may go further, with upgrades like luxury boxes, a partial roof to shade the crowd, televisions in the bathrooms and Wi-Fi to allow fans to order food from their seats.
南加州大学(University of Southern California)的橄榄球校队在使用洛杉矶体育场比赛，该大学已经承诺拿出大约七千万美元对体育场进行修缮，例如更换所有的座椅。学校官员说他们可能会做更多，升级也许包括豪华包厢、为观众遮阳的局部顶棚、卫生间里的电视，以及能让观众们在座位上点餐的无线网络。
If the university does not undertake those additional upgrades, however, the Olympic Committee here has floated the idea of building temporary luxury boxes, at an unknown cost.
然而，如果南加州大学不进行这些额外的升级，这里的奥委会已经提出了建立临时豪华包厢的想法，成本还未知。