NEW DELHI — The 22 Sherpas who set out together toward Mount Everest’s Camp 2 on Friday morning were “full of joy and excitement,” but Kaji Sherpa was apprehensive: They were crossing a notoriously dangerous ice field, and they were moving too slowly.
新德里——周五早上一起出发前往珠穆朗玛峰2号营地的22名夏尔巴人“充满了喜悦和激动”，但卡吉·色尔巴(Kaji Sherpa)却有些担心：他们正在穿越的这一片冰原出了名的危险，而且他们前行的速度太慢了。
Two of the ladders used to bridge deep crevasses had broken, perhaps under the weight of ice that had fallen the previous night, and the Sherpas were backed up, carrying heavy loads of equipment for their clients. Kaji Sherpa, 39, took a wary look at the jam and sped ahead, so he was some distance away when the avalanche came.
两架用来跨过冰川深沟的梯子断了，或许是前一天夜里掉下来的冰压断的，因而，替客户搬运沉重设备的这些夏尔巴人挤在了一起。39岁的卡吉·色尔巴谨慎地看了一眼拥塞的队伍，加快了速度。因此，雪崩发生时他已经走出了一段距离。
“A cliff of snow, like a house, came directly toward us, and many were killed at the same time,” he said from his hospital bed in Katmandu, Nepal, where he was being treated for broken ribs. “There was nowhere to escape. If there was an open field, we could have dropped the baggage and escaped. But there was snow all around us that could have easily fallen if we stepped on it. So we were helpless.”
“像房子那么大的雪块径直朝我们压下来，许多人同时遇难，”因肋骨断裂而在尼泊尔加德满都一家医院接受治疗的他躺在病床上说。“没有地方可以逃。如果有一个开阔的空地，我们就能放下行李逃过去了。但我们周围都是雪，一旦踩上去，很有可能会下陷。所以我们很绝望。”
During the four-hour wait for help, he heard cries of pain from the dying, he said, and when he was able to look around he saw “the hands and legs of climbers scattered around the avalanche site.” By Sunday, he had come to a decision: He would not scale Mount Everest again, ending his life’s work of preparing the long ascent for Western clients who wait at lower camps.
他说，在等待救援的四个小时里，他听着奄奄一息的人发出痛苦的呻吟。当他能够向四周看时，他看到“发生雪崩的地方四处散落着登山人员的手和腿”。到周日，他做出了一个决定：他将不再攀登珠穆朗玛峰，结束他为西方客户的漫长登山之旅做准备的工作，虽然他已经干了一辈子。那些客户会在海拔较低的营地里等候。
“For me, it is better not to climb from this time onwards,” he said. “The Sherpas have suffered a lot. Those who stay at the base camp get food round the clock, while the Sherpa has to climb the mountain with an empty belly. He has to walk in the night all the time, as there is the risk of ice melting in the morning.”
“在我看来，最好从今往后不再爬珠穆朗玛峰，”他说。“夏尔巴人吃了很多苦。待在大本营里的那些人全天都有食物，而夏尔巴人却必须空着肚子爬山。夜里也必须一直行进，因为早上冰块可能会融化。
Three days have passed since an avalanche killed at least 13 Sherpas as they carried gear for international expedition groups. It was the worst single-day death toll in the mountain’s history, and it has focused a spotlight on the role of the local Sherpas, members of an ethnic group renowned for their skill at high-altitude climbing. They earn $3,000 to $5,000 a season — two to three months — and put themselves at great risk for affluent clients.
三天前，一场雪崩导致至少13名夏尔巴人死亡。他们当时正在为国际探险团队搬运设备。这是珠峰历史上单日死亡人数最多的一次，同时，它将外界的关注集中在了当地夏尔巴人的作用上。夏尔巴人所属的民族以其高海拔攀登技术而出名。他们一季——两三个月——能挣3000美元（约合1.9万元人民币）到5000美元，为有钱的客户承担巨大的风险。
On Sunday, disappointed at the Nepali government’s offer of 40,000 rupees, or about $408, as compensation for the families of the dead, some Sherpas gathered at Everest’s base camp proposed a “work stoppage” that could disrupt or cancel the 334 expeditions planned for the 2014 climbing season.
周日，因不满尼泊尔政府提出给遇难者家庭发放4万卢比（约合2580元人民币），大约相当于408美元作为补偿，一些夏尔巴人聚集在珠峰的大本营，提议进行“停工抗议”。停工可能导致2014年登山季计划中的334次探险中断或取消。
Such a strike would be unprecedented, according to Ang Tshering Sherpa, president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, who has pressed the government to increase the compensation package to $1,041 per family. He added that Sherpas were divided over whether to continue scaling Everest.
尼泊尔登山协会(Nepal Mountaineering Association)主席昂·策林·色尔巴(Ang Tshering Sherpa)说，这种抗议将是史无前例的；他要求尼泊尔政府将赔偿款增加到每户1041美元。他还说，夏尔巴人在是否要继续攀登珠穆朗玛峰的问题上产生了分歧。
The dispute “has not yet been resolved,” he said.
他说，这个争议“尚未解决”。
The tension promises to heighten on Monday, when groups of Sherpas plan to carry the bodies of their dead colleagues through the streets of Katmandu, Nepal’s capital.
按计划，一些夏尔巴人打算周一抬着同事的遗体穿过尼泊尔首都加德满都的街头，气氛届时定会更加紧张。
Many of the international commercial teams still at the base camp are weighing whether to continue their push to the summit or abandon their expeditions. Everest is attracting more climbers each year, most of them members of groups that pay professional Western guides to lead them up the mountain. Clients prepare for months or years, often investing tens of thousands of dollars, and some experts said they would be unlikely to turn around.
仍守在大本营的许多国际商业团队正在衡量，是要继续登顶计划还是要放弃探险。每年，珠穆朗玛峰都会吸引更多的登山者，其中许多登山者所属的团队都会聘请专业的西方向导带领他们登山。客户往往会花数月乃至数年时间来做准备，投资通常高达数万美元；专家称，他们几乎不太可能回头。
“I don’t think this is going to slow down the machine, which will escalate through May,” said David Roberts, a climber and the author of several books about climbing. “Even though it is the greatest tragedy in the history of Everest, right now at base camp they are saying, ‘This is a tragedy, but we have paid all this money to get here.’ ”
“我不认为这会让登山活动减少，活动会在5月活跃起来，”登山者、著有数本登山书籍的戴维·罗伯茨(David Roberts)说。“虽然这是珠峰历史上最大的悲剧，但是大本营的人现在在说，‘这是一场悲剧，但是为了来到这里，我们已经花了很多钱。’”
“There is even this macho sense of getting back on their horse,” he added.
他还说，“他们甚至有一种再次挑战的英雄气概。”
Some climbers, however, said their passion for the ascent was gone. Ed Marzec, 67, a retired lawyer from Los Angeles, said he had insisted his expedition include Asha Gurung, 28, a Sherpa, in part because Mr. Gurung had saved his life on an earlier trek. Mr. Gurung — the father of two children, ages 1 and 3 — is one of three men who are missing and presumed dead on the ice field, ridged with deep crevasses.
然而，有些登山者说他们已不再有登山热情。67岁的埃德·马策克(Ed Marzec)是洛杉矶的一名退休律师，他说他坚持要与28岁的夏尔巴人阿沙·古隆(Asha Gurung)一同登山，这部分是因为古隆在较早的一次探险中曾经救过他。古隆——他是两个分别为1岁和3岁的孩子的父亲——是三名失踪人员之一。人们相信，这三人已经死在了布满深深裂缝的冰原之上。
“He would never want to talk about it, he said it was part of his job, and now he is under tons and tons of ice and snow and he is not able to come back,” Mr. Marzec said in a phone interview, his voice cracking. Mr. Marzec said he had spent two years training for the ascent and invested about $100,000 of his own money, but would cancel his expedition if the Sherpas declared a strike.
“他根本不想谈论这个，他说这是他工作的一部分，而他现在压在厚厚的冰雪之下，没办法回来了，”马策克在电话采访中说道，声音颤抖。马策克说，为了登山，他已花了两年时间进行训练，而且还自己掏腰包投资了10万美元，但如果夏尔巴人宣布罢工，他就会取消行程。
“This is the least I can do,” he said. “If you see people going up, they are people so wrapped up in themselves that they don’t understand the bigger picture. The mountain will be there next year, and for the next thousand years. This is the first chance the Sherpas will have to put themselves out there, and I hope they get some benefit from it.”
“这是我唯一能做的事情，”他说。“如果你看到有些人还在登山，就说明这些人非常沉迷于自我，根本不理解更深远的含义。珠峰明年，乃至此后1000年都会在那里。这是夏尔巴人第一次不得不为自己挺身而出，我希望他们能从中获得一些好处。”