WASHINGTON — Isolated from his political allies and cut off from his financial patrons, Stephen K. Bannon, President Donald Trump’s former chief strategist, issued a striking mea culpa on Sunday for comments he had made that were critical of the president’s eldest son.
华盛顿——被政治盟友孤立、遭金主切断支持之后，特朗普总统的前首席战略师斯蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)在周日发表了一份惊人的认错声明，对他批评总统长子的言论表示道歉。
Bannon, who is quoted in a new book calling Donald Trump Jr.'s meeting with Russians in 2016 “treasonous,” tried to reverse his statements completely, saying that the younger Trump was “both a patriot and a good man.”
在一本新书的引述中，班农将小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)与俄罗斯人在2016年的会面称为“叛国”，他试图转变他的言论，称小特朗普“不但爱国，而且是个好人”。
He said his reference to “treason” had not been aimed at the president’s son, but at another campaign official who attended the 2016 Trump Tower meeting, Paul Manafort.
他说，他的“叛国”说法并不是针对总统之子，而是另一名参加了2016年在特朗普大厦那次碰面的竞选官员保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)。
“My comments were aimed at Paul Manafort, a seasoned campaign professional with experience and knowledge of how the Russians operate,” Bannon said, in a statement first reported by Axios. “He should have known they are duplicitous, cunning and not our friends. To reiterate, those comments were not aimed at Don Jr.”
“我的言论针对的是保罗·马纳福特，他是一名资深竞选专业人士，他对俄罗斯人如何行事有足够的经验和知识，”班农在一份首先被Axios报道的声明中说。“他应该知道他们奸诈、狡猾，不是我们的朋友。我重申，这些评论针对的不是小唐纳德。”
Earlier on Sunday, the administration continued its assault on Bannon, with Donald Trump’s senior policy adviser, Stephen Miller, saying in a heated interview on CNN that comments by Bannon in the new book were “out of touch with reality,” “vindictive” and “grotesque.”
周日早间，特朗普政府继续抨击班农，总统的高级政策顾问斯蒂芬·米勒(Stephen Miller)在一场激烈的CNN采访中表示，那本新书引用的班农的言论“脱离现实”、“充满怨恨”，而且“荒唐可笑”。
In the book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” by Michael Wolff, Bannon said Trump had “lost his stuff,” and he described the meeting with Russians attended by Donald Trump Jr. and the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as potentially treasonous.
在迈克尔·沃尔夫(Michael Wolff)的《炮火与怒火：白宫内幕》(Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House)中，班农说特朗普“已经技穷”，并且将小特朗普和总统女婿贾里德•库什纳(Jared Kushner)参加的与俄罗斯人的碰面称为潜在的叛国行为。
Miller, in his defense of the president, called him a “political genius” who could rattle off complete paragraphs on the fly in response to news events and then deliver them “flawlessly” to a campaign audience. On Saturday, the president, responding to the book’s depiction of his actions in office as erratic, had called himself a “very stable genius.”
在为总统辩护时，米勒将特朗普称为一位“政治天才”，说他可以在应对新闻事件时出口成章，然后将它们“完美无暇”地传达给竞选活动的观众。周六，总统对这本书说他在工作中的行为极不稳定作出了回应，称自己是一名”非常稳定的天才”。
The interview, on the CNN program “State of the Union,” quickly grew heated as Tapper accused Miller of being “obsequious” and speaking to an “audience of one.” Before it ended, Tapper told Miller, who is known for his hard-edge attacks on political opponents and the media, that he was wasting his audience’s time.
在CNN节目《国情咨文》(State of the Union)的采访中，主持人批评米勒“态度谄媚”，并且“对唯一的观众”说话，采访随之变得十分激烈。在结束前，主持人告诉以对政治对手和媒体的强硬攻击闻名的米勒，他正在浪费观众的时间。
On Twitter, Donald Trump said Miller had “destroyed” Tapper in the interview.
在Twitter上，特朗普称米勒在采访中“完爆了”主持人。