WASHINGTON — Stephen K. Bannon is stepping down from his post as executive chairman of Breitbart News, the company announced Tuesday.
华盛顿——本周二，布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)宣布，斯蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)将辞去执行董事职务。
Mr. Bannon’s departure, which was forced by a onetime financial patron, Rebekah Mercer, comes as Mr. Bannon remained unable to quell the furor over remarks attributed to him in a new book in which he questions President Trump’s mental fitness and disparages his elder son, Donald Trump Jr.
曾经的金主瑞贝卡·默瑟(Rebekah Mercer)促成了班农的离开。此前，班农始终无法平息他在一本新书中的言论所引发的怒火，书中他质疑特朗普总统的精神健康，并贬损其长子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)。
Mr. Bannon and Breitbart will work together on a smooth transition, a statement from the company’s chief executive, Larry Solov, said.
公司的首席执行官拉里·索洛夫(Larry Solov)发表的声明表示，班农将与布莱巴特一同合作实现平稳交接。
In the statement, Mr. Bannon added that he was “proud of what the Breitbart team has accomplished in so short a period of time in building out a world-class news platform.”
在这份声明中，班农补充说，他“为布莱巴特团队能在如此短的时间内建设出世界级新闻平台而感到骄傲”。
Mr. Bannon’s departure from the website is the latest ignominious turn in a career that was once one of the most promising and improbable in modern American politics.
班农从该网站的离开是其最新的耻辱转折，他一度拥有现代美国政坛最令人难以置信、最有前途的职业生涯。
Though he was virtually unknown outside of his work at Breitbart, Mr. Bannon was named chief executive of the Trump campaign two and a half months before Election Day. And he helped instill the discipline and focus that allowed Mr. Trump to narrowly prevail in the three Midwestern states that gave him victory in the Electoral College.
尽管他在布莱巴特的工作之外并不出名，但在总统选举日的两个半月前，他被任命为特朗普竞选团队的首席执行官。在他的帮助下，团队有了纪律和侧重点，使特朗普在中西部的三个州内以微弱的优势领先，从而最终赢得了总统大选。
He accompanied Mr. Trump to the White House and became his chief strategist. With an office in the West Wing and a direct line to the Oval Office — he reported to no one but the president initially — he seemed well positioned to wreak havoc on the political institutions and leaders he railed against as too corrupt and self-serving.
他陪同特朗普进入白宫，成为了他的首席战略师。他的办公室在白宫西厢，可直达椭圆形办公室——最早他只向总统汇报——看起来，他似乎拥有得天独厚的优势去破坏政治建制、摧毁被他斥为太过腐败并且自私自利的领导人。
But after repeated clashing with Ivanka Trump, the president’s elder daughter, and Jared Kushner, her husband and Mr. Trump’s senior adviser, Mr. Bannon was pushed out after less than eight months with the administration.
但在与总统的长女伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)和她的丈夫、特朗普的高级顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)一再发生冲突后，班农在特朗普政权内待了八个月不到，就被赶了出去。
No one has been more closely identified with the Breitbart website or had more to do with emboldening its defiant editorial spirit than Mr. Bannon did after its namesake, Andrew Breitbart, died of a heart attack in 2012. In Washington, Mr. Bannon works and lives part time in a townhouse nicknamed the Breitbart Embassy.
在安德鲁·巴布莱特(Andrew Breitbart)于2012年心脏病突发去世后，再也没有谁能比班农更认同布莱巴特网站、更能发扬这个网站敢于挑战的新闻编辑精神了。在华盛顿，班农有部分时间是在一个昵称为“巴布莱特大使馆”的联排别墅里工作和生活。
Once outside the administration and free to pursue his political enemies, Mr. Bannon set out on an audacious mission to challenge Republican incumbents he deemed insufficiently loyal to Mr. Trump’s agenda. He vowed to replace Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, and started backing far-right candidates, some with questionable backgrounds and losing track records at the polls.
在离开了政权体系并可以自由地对政敌出手之后，班农立即开始了一个大胆的行动，挑战在他看来对特朗普的议程不够忠诚的共和党在位者。他发誓要取代参议院共和党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)，并开始支持极右派候选人，其中一些人背景可疑，有着失败的竞选记录。
His full-throated, unfailing support of Roy S. Moore in Alabama even after allegations surfaced that the former judge preyed on women as young as 14, ended in an embarrassing setback: Democrats took the Senate seat for the first time in a generation.
班农在亚拉巴马州力挺罗伊·S·摩尔(Roy S. Moore)，即使出现了对这名前法官骚扰14岁年轻女性的指控。这样的支持止于一个尴尬的失败：民主党人在一代人时间里，首次拿下了该州的参议院席位。