WASHINGTON — Republican lawmakers sharply questioned Hillary Rodham Clinton on Thursday, seeking to build a case that the former secretary of state had been derelict in her duty to secure the American diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, in the months before the 2012 terrorist attacks that resulted in the deaths of four Americans.
华盛顿——本周四，共和党议员向希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)提出尖锐问题，试图展示这位前国务卿没有尽到职责，未能在2012年的恐怖袭击发生数月之前，确保美国在利比亚班加西的外交使团的安全。那次袭击中有四名美国人遇难。
Mrs. Clinton’s long-awaited appearance, billed by Republicans leading a select House committee investigating the Benghazi attacks as a critical moment in a monthslong inquiry, served as a replay of contested arguments from a series of previous congressional hearings and Sunday-morning talk shows.
人们对克林顿的这次现身期待已久。由共和党领导的众议院班加西袭击事件调查委员会发起的这个听证会，是历时数月的调查过程中的一个关键节点。之前在一系列国会听证会以及周日上午访谈节目中对这个问题的争议，也在这个听证会上老调重弹。
“Why were there so many requests for security equipment and personnel and why were those requests denied in Washington?” Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, the committee chairman, demanded to know in his opening remarks, as Mrs. Clinton sat across from him at the witness table, staring with indulgent disdain. “What did our leaders in Washington do or not do, and when?”
“为什么那里提交了那么多安全装备和人员的申请，为什么这些申请被华盛顿拒绝？”南卡罗来纳州众议员、班加西事件委员会主席特雷·高迪(Trey Gowdy)在开场白中发问，“我们在华盛顿的领导者做了什么，或者没有做什么，具体是什么时候？”克林顿坐在他对面的证人台上，凝视的眼神中带着毫不掩饰的不屑。
The hearing was punctuated by a series of increasingly pointed exchanges, especially among Democratic and Republican committee members. At one point, a shouting match erupted between Mr. Gowdy and two Democrats on the committee about the focus on Mrs. Clinton’s email exchanges with Sidney Blumenthal, a former aide to her husband and a personal friend.
听证会上时不时发生争论，言辞越来越尖锐，尤其是在委员会的民主党和共和党成员之间。在谈到克林顿和西德尼·布鲁门塔尔(Sidney Blumenthal)之间的电邮往来时，高迪和两名民主党人一度冲着对方叫嚷。布鲁门塔尔是克林顿丈夫的前助手及私人朋友。
After returning for a second round of questions after a lunch break, members of the committee continued to clash, with Democrats portraying Republicans as the leaders of a partisan crusade against Mrs. Clinton and Republicans angrily accusing Democrats of seeking to block a legitimate inquiry into fatal security lapses at an American diplomatic outpost.
在午休结束后的第二轮问询中，该委员会的成员继续交锋，民主党把共和党说成是针对克林顿的党派斗争首领，共和党则愤怒地指责民主党，称他们试图阻止对美国外交前哨的一个致命安全漏洞进行妥当的调查。
Televised live, the hearing gave Mrs. Clinton her first opportunity since early 2013 to respond directly to the fiercest critics of her tenure at the State Department. And it provided Republicans with a national audience for their grilling of the leading Democratic candidate for president.
听证会进行了电视直播，这不仅是2013年初以来，克林顿第一次有机会对其国务卿任期遭受的激烈批评作出直接回应，也让共和党得以在全国观众面前，对民主党的总统候选人进行逼问。
Throughout her testimony, Mrs. Clinton sought to project an image of composure and authority, challenging the committee in her opening statement to “reach for statesmanship” in its long-running inquiry.
在作证期间，克林顿试图塑造一个镇静、权威的形象，在开场陈述中呼吁委员会在这场长期调查中“诉诸治国者的手段”。
Testifying in the ornate and cavernous assembly room that is home to the House Ways and Means Committee, Mrs. Clinton recalled the courage of J. Christopher Stevens, the ambassador to Libya, and the three others who died at the mission in Benghazi, and again took responsibility for the attacks in which they died.
这个装饰华美、宽敞空旷的会议室是众议院筹款委员会(House Ways and Means Committee)的办公地点，在该会议室作证时，克林顿回忆起美国驻利比亚大使J·克里斯托弗·史蒂文斯(J. Christopher Stevens)和其他三名在班加西遇害的外交官员，称他们充满勇气，并再次表示，她对导致他们遇难的袭击事件负有责任。
But Mrs. Clinton said that as secretary of state she had not personally approved or denied requests for extra security for the facility where they were based. And she insisted that the United States must not back away from diplomacy because of the episode.
但克林顿表示，作为国务卿，她没有亲自批准或拒绝加强其所在设施安保的要求。她坚称，美国不应该因为该事件而放弃外交举措。
“Retreat from the world is not an option,” Mrs. Clinton told lawmakers. She called accusations that she contributed to the death of Mr. Stevens, a personal friend, “personally painful” and “deeply distressing.”
“退出世界事务并不是一个选择，”克林顿对议员们表示。她称，有关她导致朋友史蒂文斯死亡的指责，让她“个人感到痛苦”、“极其沮丧”。
Mrs. Clinton used her time in the witness chair to chide the Republican-led committee for what she called a failure to pursue a bipartisan search for the truth. In her opening statement, and later in response to prodding by friendly Democratic lawmakers, the former secretary of state said investigations of previous tragedies were handled cooperatively by both parties.
克林顿利用作证的机会指责共和党领导的委员会没有开展两党合作，查明真相。在开场陈述及后来对友好的民主党议员的激励做出的回应中，这名前国务卿表示，以前的悲剧事件的调查是由两党合作开展的。
“That’s what happened during the Reagan administration, when Hezbollah attacked our embassy,” Mrs. Clinton said, citing similar bipartisanship around investigations under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. “I would like us to get back to those times.”
“当真主党袭击了我们的大使馆时，里根政府就是这么做的，”克林顿说，提到了比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统执政时两党就调查事宜开展的类似合作。“我希望我们回到那个时候。”