WASHINGTON — Ending one of the longest, costliest and most bitterly partisan congressional investigations in history, the House Select Committee on Benghazi issued its final report Tuesday, finding no new evidence of culpability or wrongdoing by Hillary Clinton in the 2012 attacks in Libya that left four Americans dead.
华盛顿——历史上耗时最长、费用最高、党派色彩最严重的国会调查之一结束了。众议院班加西事件委员会(House Select Committee on Benghazi)本周二发表了结论报告。在造成四名美国人死亡的2012年利比亚袭击案中，委员会没有发现新的证据显示希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)有过失或不法行为。
The 800-page report, however, included some new details about the night of the attacks, and the context in which it occurred, and it delivered a broad rebuke of government agencies like the Defense Department, the Central Intelligence Agency and the State Department — and the officials who led them — for failing to grasp the acute security risks in Benghazi, and especially for maintaining outposts in there that they could not protect.
然而，这份800页的报告包含了袭击发生当夜及事件背景的一些新细节，对国防部、中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)和国务院等一系列政府机构及领导官员提出了广泛批评——他们未能理解班加西急迫的安全风险，尤其是让他们无法提供保护的当地站点保持了开放。
The committee, led by Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., also harshly criticized an internal State Department investigation that it said had allowed officials like Clinton, then the secretary of state, to effectively choose who would investigate their actions. In addition, it reiterated Republicans’ complaints that the Obama administration had sought to thwart the investigation by withholding witnesses and evidence.
班加西事件委员会主席是来自南卡罗来纳州的共和党众议员特雷·高迪(Trey Gowdy)。委员会还严厉批评了国务院的一项内部调查，在文中表示它让一些官员，比如当时的国务卿克林顿本人，得以选择由谁来调查他们的行为。此外，报告重申了共和党人的不满：通过扣押证人和证据的方式，奥巴马政府试图阻挠调查的进行。
The report, which includes perhaps the most exhaustive chronology to date of the attacks and their aftermath, did not dispute that U.S. military forces stationed in Europe could not have reached Benghazi in time to rescue the personnel who died — a central finding of previous inquiries.
这份报告包含了关于班加西袭击事件及其后续的各种细节，也许是迄今最详尽的描述，但文中并没有反驳此前的调查得出的核心结论，即美国驻扎在欧洲的军事人员不可能及时抵达班加西开展救援行动，避免遇害者的死亡。
Still, it issued stinging criticism of the overall delay in response and the lack of preparedness on the part of the government.
尽管如此，它对总体上存在的反应延误和政府方面的准备不足提出了尖锐批评。
“The assets ultimately deployed by the Defense Department in response to the Benghazi attacks were not positioned to arrive before the final lethal attack,” the committee wrote. “The fact that this is true does not mitigate the question of why the world’s most powerful military was not positioned to respond.”
“国防部最终在班加西袭击事件上做出的响应部署，没有可能在最后的致命攻击发生之前就位，”该委员会写道。“这个论断成立的事实并没有纾解人们的疑问：为什么世界上最强大的军事力量不能做出适当反应？”
But the lack of any clear-cut finding of professional misconduct or dereliction of duty was certain to fuel further criticism of the length the investigation — more than two years — and the expense, estimated at more than $7 million, in addition to Democrats’ allegations that the inquiry was specifically intended to damage Clinton’s presidential prospects.
然而，报告并没有发现任何明确的专业行为失当或渎职，肯定会导致外界进一步批评这项调查时间漫长、费用不菲——耗费了两年多时间，花销估计超过700万美元。此外，民主党人还指责，这个调查的目的就是为了给克林顿竞选总统的前景造成不利影响。
Her campaign was quick to respond. “After more than two years and more than $7 million in taxpayer funds, the committee report has not found anything to contradict the conclusions of the multiple, earlier investigations,” Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, said in a statement.
她的竞选团队迅速做出了回应。“花了两年多时间，还花了纳税人逾700万美元，这个委员会的报告并没有发现任何与之前的多次调查相悖的东西，”克林顿竞选活动发言人布赖恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)在声明中表示。
After a campaign stop in Denver on Tuesday, Clinton told reporters that the investigation had uncovered nothing to contradict past findings, arguing the House committee’s work had assumed a “partisan tinge.”
本周二，在丹佛的一次竞选活动结束后，克林顿对记者说，这个调查没有发现任何违背过去结论的新东西，她认为这个委员会的工作“党派色彩”过于浓厚。
“I’ll leave it to others to characterize this report,” she said, after taking a rare question from the traveling news media, “but I think it’s pretty clear, it’s time to move on.”
“让别人来评价这个报告好了，”她说，“但我认为很明显，现在是时候放下这件事了。”她这次罕见地回答了随行新闻媒体的问题。
In a sign that Gowdy was also facing pressure from the right, two of the committee’s conservative members, Reps. Jim Jordan of Ohio and Mike Pompeo of Kansas, wrote a 48-page addendum including somewhat harsher criticism of the Obama administration, its response to the attacks and its subsequent public explanations.
高迪也面临着来自右翼的压力。俄亥俄州众议员吉姆·乔丹(Jim Jordan)和堪萨斯众议员迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)是该委员会的两名保守派成员，对于奥巴马政府应对那次袭击的方式，以及随后做出的公开解释，他们在一份48页的附录中进行了措辞更为严厉的批评。
“Officials at the State Department, including Secretary Clinton, learned almost in real time that the attack in Benghazi was a terrorist attack,” Jordan and Pompeo wrote. “With the presidential election just 56 days away, rather than tell the American people the truth and increase the risk of losing an election, the administration told one story privately and a different story publicly.”
“国务院官员，包括国务卿克林顿，几乎立刻就知道班加西遭受的是恐怖袭击，”乔丹和庞皮欧写道。“当时距离总统选举只剩56天了。奥巴马政府没有选择告诉美国民众真相，那会增大输掉选举的风险，而是选择私下讲一套，公开讲另一套。”
Technically, the report is not final until the full committee formally votes to accept it, which is expected as early as July 8. Still, some changes are possible, if they are accepted and approved by a majority vote.
从理论上说，这份报告在获得委员会全体正式投票接受之后，才能成为最终结论。投票预计最早会在7月8日进行。尽管如此，在获得多数票接受和批准的时候，还是有变化的可能。
By far, the committee’s most significant disclosure, even by Republicans’ own account, was unintentional and not directly related to Benghazi: that Clinton had exclusively used a private email server during her four years as secretary of state. That revelation has spurred separate investigations into whether classified material was mishandled.
即使采用共和党人自己的说法，该委员会最重要的信息揭露也是无心插柳之举，和班加西并没有直接关系：那就是克林顿在她担任国务卿的四年间只使用私人电子邮件服务器。这一批露的重要性要远超其他内容。此事的曝光催生了机密材料是否处理不当的独立调查。 
The Democrats on the committee said the Benghazi effort had dragged on longer than far more important congressional inquiries like the ones into the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, the attack on Pearl Harbor and the response to Hurricane Katrina.
委员会的民主党人认为，班加西调查拖得太久，时间比一些重要性远远超过它的国会调查都长，比如针对2001年9月11日恐怖袭击、约翰·F·肯尼迪总统(John F. Kennedy)遇刺、偷袭珍珠港，以及卡特里娜飓风应对行动的那几次调查。
In a Benghazi report that Democrats issued on Monday, they also complained that they had been excluded from the development of the panel’s conclusions.
民主党周一发布了一份关于班加西的报告，其中抱怨，委员会形成结论的过程中把他们排除在外。
House Republicans added, inadvertently at times, to the general sense that the committee was focusing too intently on Clinton. Democrats seized on comments by the House majority leader, Rep. Kevin McCarthy of California, who boasted on Fox News in September that the committee’s work had put a dent in Clinton’s poll numbers.
众议院共和党人有些时候不经意的举动，也让人总体感觉到，该委员会的工作重点太集中在克林顿身上。来自加利福尼亚州的众议院多数党领袖凯文·麦卡锡(Kevin McCarthy)去年9月在Fox新闻频道(Fox News)的节目上夸口说，该委员会的工作打击了克林顿的民调数据。这让民主党人做了一番文章。
“Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right?” McCarthy said. “But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping. Why? Because she’s untrustable. But no one would have known any of that had happened, had we not fought.”
“每个人都认为克林顿坚不可摧，对吧？”麦卡锡说。“但是，我们组建了一个班加西特别委员会，一个专职委员会。今天她的民调数据怎么样？在下降。为什么？因为她不可信。但是，如果我们不努力，就没有人知道这种事情发生过。”
Those comments helped derail McCarthy’s bid to succeed Speaker John A. Boehner. Gowdy has long disavowed the remarks, saying the discovery of the private email server was highly unexpected and not a focus of his investigation.
这种评论和其他原因一起，导致麦卡锡未能接任约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)的议长之职。高迪一直否认这类言论，称私人电子邮件服务器的发现是一个很大的意外，而不是他调查的重点。