Eight years ago, when Dr. Anthony C. Watkins and Dr. Khadijah Booth Watkins moved into hospital staff housing, a two-bedroom rental was fine for them and their young son. A few years after their second son arrived, the family moved within the building to a three-bedroom.
八年前，安东尼·C·沃特金斯(Anthony C. Watkins)和赫迪彻·布斯·沃特金斯(Khadijah Booth Watkins)搬进了医院的职工宿舍，这是一套两居室出租屋，对于他们和年幼的儿子来说，是个不错的住处。几年后，他们的第二个儿子出生了，一家人搬进了同一栋楼里的一套三居室。
For the last year or so, the Watkinses hunted casually for a place to buy, checking online listings and attending open houses.
大概是在去年，沃特金斯夫妇以买房为目的，漫不经心地找起了房子。他们查看了网上的挂牌信息，还参加了开放日看房。
Hospital housing was convenient, but “we knew it wasn’t a long-term solution,” said Dr. Watkins, a transplant surgeon. “My wife was really stuck on a brownstone-type situation. Me, I’m from Tennessee. I was looking for something like a 40th-floor looking-at-the-city type of situation.”
职工宿舍是很方便，但“我们知道，这不是长久之计。”身为器官移植外科医生的安东尼说，“我妻子真的很迷恋褐石建筑。而我来自田纳西，想找那种40层高、能俯瞰都市景观的房子。”
The decision to move was made for them last spring, when they received notice of a hefty rent increase, from around $3,500 a month to about $5,500.
去年春季，他们收到了租金大幅上涨的通知，房租从每月3500美元（约合人民币21488元）涨到了5500美元（约合人民币33766元）。搬家已成定局。
“It no longer felt like this was a perk to live there,” said Dr. Booth Watkins, a child and adolescent psychiatrist. The notice “gave us the fire we needed. It wasn’t feasible to pay that kind of money for what we had.”
“住在那里感觉已经不再像是福利了，”少儿精神病医师赫迪彻说。这个通知“给了我们动力。在房租上花那么多钱并不划算。”
Their employer, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, declined to comment on its housing policies.
他们的雇主——纽约长老会医院(New York-Presbyterian Hospital)拒绝就其住房政策发表评论。
So, with no time to buy a place, the couple went on the hunt for a rental for their family, which includes their sons, Khalil, 12, and Ayden, 6; Dr. Booth Watkins’s father, Garland Booth, who moved in with them last year from Virginia; and their dog, Blu.
这样一来，买房已经来不及了，夫妇俩开始物色出租屋来安置一家人。他们的家人包括两个儿子——12岁的哈利勒(Khalil)和6岁的艾登(Ayden)；赫迪彻的父亲加兰德·布斯(Garland Booth)，他去年从弗吉尼亚搬了过来，和他们住在一起；还有他们养的狗，名叫布鲁(Blu)。
A colleague referred Dr. Watkins to Christopher James, an agent at Citi Habitats. The family wanted three bedrooms and two bathrooms; their secret dream was outdoor space. They aimed for a monthly rent in the $3,000s, in order to save for a place of their own.
一名同事将安东尼介绍给了Citi Habitats的一名经纪人克里斯托弗·詹姆斯(Christopher James)。沃特金斯一家想要一套三室两卫的住宅；户外空间是他们的秘密梦想。为了省钱买房，他们将房租的价位锁定在3000美元（约合人民币18418元）左右。
The couple started in East Harlem at a sleek 2007 condominium building, Observatory Place, on 104th Street near First Avenue. A two-bedroom two-bathroom apartment was for rent for $3,200 a month. Some of the two-bedrooms they had seen when they were looking casually were large enough to be converted to a three-bedroom, but not this one.
夫妇俩一开始找的房子在东哈莱姆区(East Harlem)一座气派的共管公寓楼里，建成于2007年，位于第104街天文广场(Observatory Place)，靠近第一大道。这是一套两室两卫的公寓，房租每月3200美元（约合人民币19646元）。他们在随意找房的那段时间里曾看到过一些足够大的两居室，可以改造成三居室；但是这套不可以。
They walked away from a $3,000-a-month duplex in a four-unit brownstone on East 129th Street — roomy but rundown and near the commotion of the Metro-North railroad tracks. They considered a three-bedroom for $3,800 a month at 107th Street near Central Park. “One of my dreams was to be close to Central Park so I could have access to that to run,” Dr. Watkins said. But the place wasn’t big enough and “didn’t have that homey feel for us.”
东129街有一套月租3000美元（约合人民币18418元）的复式住宅，位于一栋包含四个单元的褐石建筑中。这套房子也不入他们的法眼——它虽然宽敞，但是年久失修，而且靠近大都会北方铁路(Metro-North)的嘈杂地带。他们还考虑过第107街靠近中央公园的一套月租3800美元（约合人民币23329元）的三居室。“我的梦想之一就是住在中央公园附近，这样就可以去跑步了，”安东尼说。但是这套房子不够大，而且“对我们来说没有家的感觉。”
Many of the apartments they saw had tiny bedrooms. Though they looked elsewhere, the search always returned to Harlem. “The farther up you go, the more space you get for less money,” Mr. James said. “That fact kept proving to be.”
在他们看过的房子当中，许多公寓的卧室太小。虽然他们去其它地方找过房子，但是搜索范围总是会回到哈莱姆。“位置越偏远，你就越有可能以更低的价格租到更大的房子，”詹姆斯说，“这是个颠扑不破的事实。”
The family loved a two-bedroom sublet at Strivers Lofts on West 135th Street. The monthly rent was $3,950, and a third bedroom could be carved from the generous L-shape living and dining area. With a police station across the street, the neighborhood seemed especially safe. The roof deck was enticing, too.
一家人很喜欢西135街Strivers Lofts的一套两居室转租房，月租是3950美元（约合人民币24250元）。宽敞的L形起居/用餐区中，可以辟出第三间卧室。由于街对面有个警察局，这个社区似乎特别安全。屋顶平台也很吸引人。
But after some back and forth, the couple were disappointed to be told it had been rented to someone else.
但是看过几次房子后，夫妇俩得到了令人失望的消息：房子已经租出去了。
Finally, they came to a recently converted brownstone with two units in the West 130s. The upper duplex, $3,800 a month, had three bedrooms and three bathrooms. It was everything they wanted. They were about to take it.
最终，他们来到了西130街的一栋新改建的褐石建筑，里面有两个单元。楼上的复式住宅月租3800美元（约合人民币23329元），有三间卧室、三间浴室。他们想要的一切在这里应有尽有。他们打算把这套房子拿下。
But they made the mistake of visiting the lower unit: a three-bedroom triplex with four bathrooms, a finished basement and a backyard. At $4,700 a month, “it was a little hefty on the price,” Dr. Watkins said.
但是他们阴差阳错地去看了楼下的单元：这是一套三居室的三层住宅，带四间浴室、一间已装修的地下室和一座后院。它的月租是4700美元（约合人民币28854元），“这个价格有点让人吃不消。”安东尼说。
But, upon reflection, it seemed a better choice, with fewer stairs to climb than the top unit, Dr. Booth Watkins said. “And I really loved the idea of the yard.”
但是思来想去，它似乎是一个更好的选择，相比顶层的单元来说不需要爬那么多楼，赫迪彻说，“而且我真的很喜欢带后院的设计。”
So at the last minute, the Drs. Watkins changed their minds. They signed a two-year lease for the triplex, paid a broker fee of 15 percent of a year’s rent, or $8,460, and arrived last spring.
因此，在最后一刻，沃特金斯夫妇改变了主意。他们签了为期两年的租约，租下了这套三层住宅，支付了年租金的15%——也就是8460美元（约合人民币51938元）——作为经纪费，去年春天搬了进去。
“That was a pill to swallow — and then we had to put down a dog deposit,” Dr. Watkins said. “So the initial move-in was a pretty penny.”
“这是一个不得不咽下的苦果——而且我们还不得不把宠物押金记在账上，”安东尼说，“所以最开始搬进去花了一大笔钱。”
More space, they found, made for more expenses — a grill, outdoor furniture, higher utility costs, gardening supplies for Mr. Booth’s vegetable garden.
他们发现，房子面积越大，花费就越大——花费的来源包括烤架、户外家具、更高的水电费，以及布斯打理菜园所需的园艺工具。
“We used the move as an opportunity to upgrade some furniture,” Dr. Watkins said, but disposing of the old stuff “kind of backfired because we were in the living room with no sofa for a long time, and I bought a brand-new TV, so we had a nice TV in the living room but no furniture.” They hauled in some temporary chairs.
“我们利用这次搬家的机会升级了某些家具，”安东尼说，但是扔掉旧家具“反而坏了事，因为我们的客厅里很长时间没有沙发，而我又买了台全新的电视。于是，我们客厅里有一台很好的电视，但却没有家具。”他们找了些临时的椅子放在客厅里。
One thing they lack is closet space. “I guess we never realized we packed so much stuff in the old apartment,” Dr. Booth Watkins said. In their new home, “it felt like we had a lot of space, but no place to put things.”
而橱柜空间则是他们缺少的一样东西。“我估计我们还没有意识到，原来那套公寓里面塞了那么多的东西，”赫迪彻说。在他们的新家，“感觉地方很大，却没有放东西的地方。”
The family is learning to live in a house. They miss the doorman. They worry about misdelivered mail, and are getting the hang of recycling the trash. Dr. Watkins, not quite close enough to Central Park, takes the subway there to run.
一家人正在适应住别墅的生活。他们想念有门卫的日子。他们开始担心邮件投递错误，并在学习垃圾回收的技巧。由于住的地方离中央公园不算太近，安东尼需要乘地铁去跑步。