Credit Suisse has done what no other bank of its size and significance has done in over two decades: plead guilty to criminal wrongdoing.
瑞信(Credit Suisse)做了一件20多年来具有同等规模和影响力的银行从未做过的事：对刑事指控认罪。
In a sign that global banking giants are no longer immune from criminal charges — despite public concerns that financial institutions have grown so large and interconnected that they are “too big to jail” — federal prosecutors demanded that Credit Suisse’s parent company plead guilty to helping thousands of American account holders hide their wealth and evade taxes.
此前，联邦检察官要求瑞信的母公司承认协助数千个账户的美国持有人隐瞒财富和逃税。这显示出，尽管公众担心一些金融机构已经变得如此庞大和相互关联，以至于“刑不上巨型银行”，全球银行业巨擘已不再与刑事指控绝缘。
In the Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., a Credit Suisse lawyer, Alan Reifenberg,  accepted the plea agreement in a 45 minute hearing before Judge Rebecca B. Smith.
在弗吉尼亚州亚历山德里亚的联邦地区法院举行的45分钟的听证会上，面对丽贝卡·B·史密斯(Rebecca B. Smith)法官，瑞信的律师艾伦·赖芬贝格(Alan Reifenberg)接受了认罪协议。
As part of a deal with the Justice Department, the Swiss bank agreed to plead to one count of conspiring to aid tax evasion. Credit Suisse, which has a giant investment bank in New York and whose chief executive is an American, will also pay about $2.6 billion in penalties and hire an independent monitor for up to two years.
作为与司法部的协议的一部分，这家瑞士银行同意对合谋协助逃税的一项指控认罪。瑞信的首席执行官是美国人，并且在纽约拥有一家庞大的投资银行。该公司将支付约26亿美元的罚金，并且在至多两年的时间里聘请独立的监督人。
“This case shows that no financial institution, no matter its size or global reach, is above the law,” said Attorney General Eric Holder Jr.. “Credit Suisse conspired to help U.S. citizens hide assets in offshore accounts in order to evade paying taxes. When a bank engages in misconduct this brazen, it should expect that the Justice Department will pursue criminal prosecution to the fullest extent possible, as has happened here.”
“该案显示出，无论规模或全球影响力如何，任何金融机构都不能凌驾于法律之上，”司法部长小埃里克·霍尔德(Eric Holder Jr.)说，“瑞信合谋帮助美国公民隐瞒在离岸账户中的资产，从而逃避纳税。当一家银行如此肆无忌惮地参与到违规行为之中，它应该可以预见的是，司法部将最大限度地提出刑事指控，就像我们现在所做的那样。”
The severe rebuke from federal prosecutors — as well as from the Federal Reserve and New York State’s banking regulator, Benjamin M. Lawsky, who agreed to punish the bank without shutting it down — stems in part from Credit Suisse’s failure to fully cooperate with the United States government.
来自联邦检察官的严厉斥责——以及美联储(Federal Reserve)和纽约州银行监管者本杰明·M·劳斯基(Benjamin M. Lawsky)的谴责，一定程度上是因为瑞信此前没有充分配合美国政府的工作。劳斯基已同意，在不让银行关门的前提下对其实施惩罚。
The resulting plea deal will strike a blow at overseas tax dodging and the shadowy world of Swiss bank secrecy, which had become a hallmark of the country’s financial system and the scorn of American policy makers. The deal also signals a shift in prosecutors’ policy. Credit Suisse is the most prominent bank to plead guilty since Drexel Burnham Lambert in 1989.
这份认罪协议将对海外逃税行为，以及神秘的瑞士银行保密制度造成打击。瑞士银行的保密制度已经成为该国金融系统的特色，同时也招致了美国政策制定者的不满。该协议还预示着检方政策的转向。瑞信是继1989年德崇证券公司(Drexel Burnham Lambert)之后认罪的最知名金融机构。
It took months of careful planning. Recognizing that criminal charges could prompt regulators to revoke a bank’s license to operate, the corporate equivalent of the death penalty, prosecutors met with the Fed and Mr. Lawsky to discuss punishing Credit Suisse without putting it out of business and imperiling the economy, according to interviews with people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly.
这一结果来自长达几个月的精心安排。根据对一些无权公开谈论此事的知情者的采访，由于认识到刑事指控可能促使监管机构吊销银行营业执照——相当于给企业判了死刑，检方与美联储及劳斯基见了面，讨论如何对其实施惩罚，同时又不令其停业或对经济造成影响。
The Credit Suisse plea won’t be the last. The case, which comes some three years after federal prosecutors in Virginia indicted eight Credit Suisse bankers, will provide a template for prosecuting other financial misdeeds — both present and future. BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, is next in line to plead guilty in the coming weeks, the people briefed on the matter said. The bank, which is suspected of doing business with countries like Sudan and Iran that the United States has blacklisted, will also pay more than $5 billion in fines, the people briefed on the matter said, and Mr. Lawsky is planning to penalize a dozen or so bank employees.
瑞信不会是最后一家认罪的银行。大约三年前，弗吉尼亚的联邦检察官对瑞信的八名雇员提起控诉，现在这个案子终于完结。而本案将会为起诉其他金融违规行为提供模板——不管是当前的，还是未来的违规行为。这些知情者说，法国最大的银行法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)将是下一家认罪的银行，会在未来几周认罪。他们说，这家银行涉嫌与苏丹和伊朗等被美国列入黑名单的国家有生意往来。该银行也将支付超过50亿美元的罚款。而劳斯基打算惩罚大约十几名银行雇员。
The BNP and Credit Suisse cases may also lay the groundwork for criminal actions against American banks. The new strategy applies to American banks like JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, which are both the subject of criminal investigations, but those inquiries are at an earlier stage and it is unclear whether they would warrant charges.
法国巴黎银行和瑞信的案子还可能为针对美国银行的刑事诉讼奠定基础。新的战略也适用于摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)和花旗集团(Citigroup)等美国银行，它们目前都在接受刑事调查，但调查仍在早期，目前还不清楚是否会带来指控。
But the public and Congressional lust for Wall Street accountability may linger all the same. For one, the plea deal will not require the bank to turn over the names of its American clients, a hot-button issue in Congress. Credit Suisse has argued that Swiss law prevented it from turning over the names of its American clients.
但公众和国会对华尔街进行追责的渴望可能不会得到满足。首先，认罪协议不要求银行披露其美国客户的名字，而这在国会是一个敏感问题。瑞信已经声称，瑞士法律禁止该行交出美国客户的姓名。
And moving forward, extracting a guilty plea from an American bank could still prove challenging for prosecutors. While many foreign banks with operations in New York are regulated by Mr. Lawsky and the New York Fed, the vast majority of large American banks are overseen by a different regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Even though the comptroller, Thomas J. Curry, has been a fierce critic of erring banks, he has warned prosecutors that federal law could force him to revisit a bank’s charter if it is criminally convicted.
此外，从一家美国银行那里得到认罪对检方来说可能仍然极具挑战性。尽管许多在纽约运作的外国银行受到劳斯基和纽约联邦储备银行的监管，大多数美国大型银行则由另一家监管机构负责监督，那就是美国货币监理署(Office of the Comptroller of the Currency)。即使监理署的负责人托马斯·J·柯里(Thomas J. Curry)也激烈地谴责了违规的银行，他还是警告检方，如果一家银行被判定存在刑事犯罪行为，根据联邦法律，他将不得不考虑吊销其营业执照。
What’s more, the cases against Credit Suisse and BNP won’t quell the lingering outrage over the financial crisis. While the Justice Department levied billions of dollars in penalties on JPMorgan and a number of other banks at the center of the crisis, those cases were civil rather than criminal.
而且，瑞信和法国巴黎银行的案子并不足以平息金融危机引发的长期愤怒。尽管司法部对摩根大通和几家处于危机中心的其他银行处以了数十亿美元的罚金，但这些都是民事案件，而不是刑事案件。
The notion that a criminal conviction could jeopardize the financial system stems from the experience of Arthur Andersen, Enron’s accounting firm. In the aftermath of a 2002 criminal conviction, Arthur Andersen went out of business.
银行认罪可能会破坏金融系统的看法源于安然(Enron)雇佣的会计师事务所安达信(Arthur Andersen)的例子。在2002年因为刑事指控被定罪之后，安达信会计师事务所倒闭了。
Following that collapse, which claimed thousands of jobs, prosecutors adopted a more tentative approach to punishing big companies, relying instead on so-called “deferred-prosecution agreements.” Such deals suspend charges against corporations in exchange for fines and other concessions.
安达信的崩溃损失了数千个工作岗位。此后，检方在惩罚大公司时变得尤为谨慎，并开始使用所谓的“暂缓起诉协议”。根据这样的协议，如果接受罚金和其他让步措施，大公司就可以暂缓被起诉。
Arthur Andersen also informed a case in 2012 against HSBC, the British bank accused of transferring billions of dollars for Iran and enabling Mexican drug cartels to move tainted money through its American branches. Fearing that a guilty plea would cost the bank its charter — and regulators warned that it might — prosecutors opted for a deferred prosecution agreement and a fine.
安达信的例子也对2012年针对汇丰银行(HSBC)的案子有所启发。当时，这家英国银行被指为伊朗转移数十亿美元的资金，并让墨西哥的贩毒集团通过其美国的分支机构转移非法所得。由于担心认罪会导致银行被吊销营业执照——监管机构也发出了这种警告——检方选择了暂缓起诉协议和罚金。