BERLIN — A narrow majority of voters in Switzerland approved proposals on Sunday that would reintroduce restrictions on the number of foreigners who are allowed to live and work in the country, a move that could have far-reaching implications for Switzerland’s relations with the European Union.
柏林——瑞士周日以微弱多数通过了一项对在该国居住和工作的外国人数量重新设置限制的议案，这一表决结果将会给瑞士与欧盟之间的关系带来深远的影响。
The referendum on the changes to the country’s liberal immigration law was a rebuke to the Swiss government, the banking industry and business leaders who had lobbied against the restrictions, warning that such a move could endanger Switzerland’s prosperity.
这次为修改该国慷慨的移民法所进行的全民公决，是对瑞士政府、银行业以及那些为反对移民限制进行游说的商业领导人的指责，这些人曾告诫，限制移民将会给瑞士的繁荣带来威胁。
The admonitions failed to drown out the warnings of the rightist Swiss People’s Party, which introduced the referendum that it said was necessary if Switzerland was to retain its identity in the face of immigration.
这些告诫没能抵挡住右翼的瑞士人民党(Swiss People’s Party)发出的警告，该党称，如果瑞士要保持其国家认同，在移民问题上必须引入限制，该党是这次公投的提起者。
Switzerland, which is not part of the European Union, has one of the highest proportions of foreigners in Europe, accounting for about 27 percent of the country’s population of about eight million. Many job seekers have arrived from countries hit hard by the European economic crisis.
瑞士不是欧盟国家，该国是外国人口比例最高的欧洲国家之一，全国约800万人口中有27%左右是移民。许多遭欧洲经济危机重创的国家的公民到瑞士来找工作。
Immigration has become a polarizing issue across Europe. More prosperous nations are growing worried that their welfare systems cannot handle an influx of workers from the economically weaker Eastern European countries.
移民已经成为一个在欧洲各地制造分化的问题。更繁荣的国家越来越担心他们的福利体系承受不了不断涌入的来自较贫穷的东欧国家的打工者。
Far-right parties with anti-immigrant platforms in France, the Netherlands and Norway have gained strength in recent years, and there have been sharp debates in Britain and Germany over limiting the number of immigrants from Bulgaria and Romania because citizens from those countries gained full access to European Union job markets this year.
法国、荷兰和挪威的那些以反对移民为纲领的极右派政党近年来势力有所增长，德国和英国也多次发生有关限制保加利亚和罗马利亚移民数量的激烈争论，因为这两个国家的公民今年得以全面进入欧盟的就业市场。
The Swiss initiative foresees annual quotas on the number of immigrants allowed to work in the country, as well as limits for specific sectors. It would also require that preference be given to Swiss applicants for open positions.
瑞士的这一公决结果意味着将对获准在该国工作的移民总数设置年度定额，以及对一些特定行业的移民人数设限制。公决结果还将要求在填补空缺职位时要优先考虑瑞士人。
The proposal passed with the support of 50.3 percent of those who voted; 56 percent of eligible voters cast ballots. The largest cities, Zurich and Basel, rejected the vote, and smaller cities and rural areas supported it.
提案以50.3%的多数票通过；有选民资格的公民中，有56%的人参加了公投。瑞士最大的城市苏黎世和巴塞尔的投票结果是拒绝提案，而小型城市和乡村地区的投票结果是支持提案。
In Brussels, the European Commission issued a statement saying that it was “disappointed” that the initiative had passed, adding that it would have to study the vote’s implications on relations between the European Union and Switzerland.
位于布鲁塞尔的欧盟委员会(European Commission)在一项声明中对提案获得通过表示“失望”，并称需要研究公投结果对欧盟与瑞士之间关系所产生的影响。
The outcome on Sunday seemed to shows the differences between the government and industry on the one hand and voters, who approved the introduction of curbs on excessive salaries for business executives two years ago. “We always thought the argument about jobs would win people over,” Urs Schwaller, a lawmaker with the centrist Christian People’s Party, said in an interview with the Swiss television channel SRF. “Clearly, that wasn’t enough.”
周日的公投结果似乎揭示了政府和企业方面与选民之间的鸿沟，两年前选民曾投票支持对工商业高管的过高收入加以限制。中间派政党基督教民主人民党(Christian People’s Party)议员乌尔斯·施瓦勒 (Urs Schwaller)在接受瑞士电视台SRF采访时说，“我们总认为以就业为论据会赢得民心。很明显，那还不够。”
The Swiss People’s Party has been particularly skillful at using such popular votes to push for immigration controls in recent years. After growing pressure, the government reintroduced quotas in 2012 limiting the number of work permits that could be issued for European Union citizens.
瑞士人民党近年来一直在特别熟练地运用这种大众投票方式来推动限制移民的法案。在不断增长的压力面前，政府于2012年重新引入了限额，对发给欧盟国家公民的工作许可数量加以限制。
But Swiss voters have long been reluctant to fully embrace a united Europe. In 1992, the Swiss narrowly rejected membership in the European Economic Area, which was seen as a prelude to full European Union participation. After that, the Swiss government began to negotiate a series of bilateral accords with Brussels that would ease the flow of citizens across the borders.
瑞士选民长期来一直不愿意完全接受一个统一的欧洲。1992年，瑞士以微弱的多数票拒绝了加入欧洲经济区(European Economic Area)，加入经济区被视为是全面参与欧盟的一个序幕。那之后，瑞士政府开始与布鲁塞尔就简化欧盟国家公民进入瑞士的手续问题举行一系列的双边协议谈判。
The Swiss agreed in 2008 to participate in the Pan-European accord known as the Schengen Agreement, which led to the dismantling of patrols at its borders and the free movement of its citizens to European Union nations.
2008年瑞士同意加入被称为申根协议(Schengen Agreement)的一项泛欧州协议，该协议导致瑞士解除了边境巡逻，并让瑞士公民可以自由地进入欧盟国家。
That has made it easy for residents of those countries hit hardest by the euro crisis to move to Switzerland to seek better and higher-paid work. The number of foreign-born residents has risen by 14 percent over the past five years, a pace that some Swiss see as too rapid.
这也让那些受欧元危机影响最严重的国家的公民得以容易地来瑞士找更好、报酬更高的工作。过去5年中，瑞士的国外出生的居民人数增长了14%，一些瑞士人认为这个速度过快。
The vote on Sunday also comes at a time when Switzerland is under intense pressure from France, Italy and other European countries that want its banking system to become more transparent. Last year, Switzerland and the United States reached a deal to punish Swiss banks that had helped Americans evade taxes.
周日的公投也发生在瑞士正面临来自法国、意大利和其他欧洲国家的强大压力之际，这些国家希望瑞士的银行系统变得更加透明。去年，瑞士和美国达成一项协议，惩罚那些帮美国人避税的瑞士银行。
“It is far more than a political slap in the face,” the left-leaning newspaper Neue Zürcher Zeitung wrote in an editorial published on its website after the result was announced. “The Yes to the ‘Massive Immigration Initiative’ is a censure that is comparable to No to the European Economic Area.
偏左的《新苏黎世报》(Neue Zürcher Zeitung)在公投结果出来后在其网站的评论版发表文章称，“这远不仅仅是一记打在国家脸上的政治耳光。对‘大规模移民法案’(Massive Immigration Initiative)的赞成票，是与对加入欧洲经济区投反对票可以一比的强烈谴责。”
“What the verdict means for relations between Switzerland and the E.U. is completely open, but it certainly won’t be good for the economic vitality and prosperity in this country.”
“这个结果对瑞士和欧盟之间的关系来说意味着什么完全未知，但这肯定对瑞士的经济活力和繁荣没有好处。”