Three years ago Sweden was widely regarded as a role model in how to deal with a global crisis. The nation’s exports were hit hard by slumping world trade but snapped back; its well-regulated banks rode out the financial storm; its strong social insurance programs supported consumer demand; and unlike much of Europe, it still had its own currency, giving it much-needed flexibility. By mid-2010 output was surging, and unemployment was falling fast. Sweden, declared The Washington Post, was “the rock star of the recovery.”
三年前，瑞典曾被广泛认为是应对全球危机的模范。该国出口受到全球贸易疲软的冲击，但迅速反弹；受到规范监管的该国银行安然度过了金融风暴；该国有力的社会保障计划支撑了消费者的需求；而且不像欧洲许多国家那样，瑞典还有自己的货币，于是就有了不可多得的灵活性。到2010年中期，经济产出迅速提升，失业率快速下降。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)宣称，瑞典“是经济复苏领域的巨星”。
Then the sadomonetarists moved in.
之后，“货币施虐癖”(sadomonetarists)就来了。
The story so far: In 2010 Sweden’s economy was doing much better than those of most other advanced countries. But unemployment was still high, and inflation was low. Nonetheless, the Riksbank — Sweden’s equivalent of the Federal Reserve — decided to start raising interest rates.
在那之前的故事是：2010年，瑞典经济远比其他发达国家要好。但是失业率仍然处于高水平，而通胀水平很低。尽管如此，瑞典中央银行(Riksbank)还是决定开始提高利率。
There was some dissent within the Riksbank over this decision. Lars Svensson, a deputy governor at the time — and a former Princeton colleague of mine — vociferously opposed the rate hikes. Mr. Svensson, one of the world’s leading experts on Japanese-style deflationary traps, warned that raising interest rates in a still-depressed economy put Sweden at risk of a similar outcome. But he found himself isolated, and left the Riksbank in 2013.
瑞典央行内部对于这个决定存在不同意见。当时的副行长、也是我在普林斯顿大学(Princeton)的前同事拉尔斯·斯文森(Lars Svensson)极力反对大举提高利率。斯文森是世界上研究日本式通缩陷阱的顶尖专家之一，他警告说，在经济依然低迷时加息，可能会让瑞典面临相似的风险。然而他发现自己受到孤立，于是在2013年离开了瑞典央行。
Sure enough, Swedish unemployment stopped falling soon after the rate hikes began. Deflation took a little longer, but it eventually arrived. The rock star of the recovery has turned itself into Japan.
果然，加息后不久，瑞典的失业率就停止下降了。通货紧缩的现象来得稍晚一些，但毕竟也发生了。“经济复苏领域的巨星”把自己变成了日本。
So why did the Riksbank make such a terrible mistake? That’s a hard question to answer, because officials changed their story over time. At first the bank’s governor declared that it was all about heading off inflation: “If the interest rate isn’t raised now, we’ll run the risk of too much inflation further ahead ... Our most important task is to ensure that we meet our inflation target of 2 percent.” But as inflation slid toward zero, falling ever further below that supposedly crucial target, the Riksbank offered a new rationale: tight money was about curbing a housing bubble, to avert financial instability. That is, as the situation changed, officials invented new rationales for an unchanging policy.
那么瑞典央行为什么犯下了这样一个糟糕的错误？这是一个很难回答的问题，因为随着时间的推移，官员们的说辞也变来变去。起初，央行行长宣称，加息的目标是对抗通胀：“如果现在不提高利率，在更远的未来，我们恐怕就会面对更严重的通胀……我们最重要的任务是确保达到2%的通胀目标。”但随着通胀滑向零，与据称很重要的目标相比跌得越来越低，瑞典央行提出了一种新的理由：收紧货币供应意在抑制房地产市场泡沫，从而避免金融体系不稳定。也就是说，随着形势的变化，官员们为一个不变的政策编造了新的理由。
In short, this was a classic case of sadomonetarism in action.
简而言之，这活脱脱就是货币施虐癖的经典例子。
I’m using that term (coined by William Keegan of The Observer) advisedly, not just to be colorful. At least as I define it, sadomonetarism is an attitude, common among monetary officials and commentators, that involves a visceral dislike for low interest rates and easy money, even when unemployment is high and inflation is low. You find many sadomonetarists at international organizations; in the United States they tend to dwell on Wall Street or in right-leaning economics departments. They don’t, I’m happy to say, exert much influence at the Federal Reserve — but they do constantly harass the Fed, demanding that it stop its efforts to boost employment.
我用这个词是经过了推敲的，并不只是想出言粗鄙。（这个词是《观察家》[The Observer]的威廉·基根[William Keegan]发明的。）至少按我的定义，货币施虐癖是金融官员和评论人士中的这样一种常见的心态：本能地厌恶低利率和宽松货币政策，即使失业率高、通胀水平低。在国际组织中会发现很多货币施虐癖，在美国他们通常待在华尔街，或者在具有右翼倾向的经济院校里。我很高兴地说，他们在美联储(Federal Reserve)并没有多大的影响力，但他们总会不断地骚扰美联储，要求停止提振就业的举措。
And when I say that the dislike for low rates is visceral, I mean just that. While sadomonetarists may offer what sound like coherent analytical rationales for their policy views, they don’t change their policy views in response to changing conditions — they just invent new rationales. This strongly suggests that what we’re looking at here is a gut feeling rather than a thought-out position.
当我形容那种对低利率的厌恶是出自本能，我的确是想表达这个意思。尽管货币施虐癖对其政策观点所提出的理由，仿佛是逻辑连贯的分析，但他们并不会因应变化情况而调整自己的政策观点——只是会编造新的理由。这有力地表明，我们看到的只是本能的感觉，并不是深思熟虑的立场。
Indeed, the Riksbank’s evolving justifications for rate hikes were mirrored at international organizations like the Switzerland-based Bank for International Settlements, an influential bankers’ bank that is a sadomonetarist stronghold. Just like the Riksbank, the bank changed its rationale for rate hikes — It’s about inflation! It’s about financial stability! — but never its policy demands.
的确，瑞典央行为提升利率不断拿出不同说辞的做法，也受到了一些国际组织的效仿，比如总部位于瑞典的国际清算银行(Bank for International Settlements)。这家银行面向的是那些有影响力的银行家，也是货币施虐癖的大本营。就像瑞典央行的做法一样，国际清算银行也调整了加息的理由——要应对通胀！要保障金融稳定！——可是从来没有调整政策诉求。
Where does this gut dislike for low rates come from? At some level it has to reflect an instinctive identification with the interests of wealthy creditors as opposed to usually poorer debtors. But it’s also driven, I believe, by the desire of many monetary officials to pose as serious, tough-minded people — and to demonstrate how tough they are by inflicting pain.
这种本能的厌恶到底从何而来呢？这在一定程度上反映了对富裕债权人的利益的本能认同，而不是通常更穷的债务人。但我相信，这种厌恶还有另外一个来源：许多金融官员希望摆出严肃、意志坚强的姿态，也乐于通过给别人制造痛苦来显示自己多么强硬。