Three men in Uppsala, Sweden, were arrested on Sunday on suspicion of raping a woman and streaming the assault live to a private Facebook group. On Monday, the authorities urged people with access to the images showing the assault to make them available to investigators.
周日，三名男子在瑞典乌普萨拉因涉嫌强奸一名女性，并将性侵视频实时发送到Facebook的一个私人小组遭到逮捕。周一，当局敦促有权限查看相关图像的人向调查人员提供这一强奸事件的资料。
“Police and prosecutors have access to some of the images and video footage,” Magnus Berggren, a prosecutor in Uppsala, said at a news conference, the Swedish newspaper Expressen reported. “What we do not have access to is the segment showing the actual assault.”
据瑞典报纸《快报》(Expressen)报道，乌普萨拉检察官马格努斯·贝里格伦(Magnus Berggren)在新闻发布会上说：“警察和检察官可以访问一些图像和视频片段，我们没有权限访问显示实际强奸的部分。”
Police officers were sent to an apartment in Uppsala, a university city about 40 miles north of Stockholm, shortly before 9 a.m. on Sunday after receiving several calls reporting a rape in progress that was being streamed live to a closed group on Facebook, Expressen reported.
《快报》报道说，警方在周日上午9点之前不久接到几个电话，报告Facebook的一个非公开小组中正在通过视频流直播一场强奸，之后警察赶到乌普萨拉的一所公寓，这是一座大学城，位于斯德哥尔摩以北约40英里处。
The police arrested three men, 18, 20 and 24, at the apartment, Expressen reported.
《快报》报道，警方在公寓中逮捕了三名男子，年龄分别是18、20和24岁。
“We are gathering evidence, technical evidence, but also interviewing,” Mr. Berggren said at the news conference. “We have questioned a number of people and there will be more interviews.”
“我们正在收集证据，技术证据，但也在进行审讯，”贝里格伦在新闻发布会上说。“我们询问了一些人，会有更多的审讯。”
While Facebook Live streams occur in real time, the videos can be replayed later by people with access to the page if the person who filmed it chooses that option, until the videos are taken down. There are ways for viewers to record the stream on computers or to take screenshots of it.
虽然Facebook Live频道的视频流是实时播放的，但如果拍摄的人选择了相关选项，在视频被删除前，可以在之后的时间里被有权限访问该页面的人回放。而且，观众有很多方法可以将视频流储存在计算机上，或进行屏幕截图。
A police spokeswoman, Lisa Sannervik, said there were probably many copies of the stream.
警方发言人丽莎·萨尼尔维克(Lisa Sannervik)说，可能有很多人保留了这个视频流的副本。
“Many have seen this on the internet, and we are eager to prevent any spreading of the movie,” Ms. Sannervik told the Swedish news agency TT.
萨尼尔维克对瑞典新闻通讯社TT表示：“许多人在互联网上看到了这个视频，我们迫切希望阻止它的传播。”
Christine Chen, a Facebook spokeswoman, said, “This is a hideous crime and we do not tolerate this kind of content on Facebook.”
Facebook发言人克里斯汀·陈(Christine Chen)表示：“这是一起可怕的犯罪，我们无法容忍这种内容出现Facebook上。”
She added: “If someone does violate our community standards while using Live, we want to interrupt these streams as quickly as possible when they’re reported to us. So we’ve given people a way to report violations during a live broadcast.”
她补充说：“如果有人在使用直播功能时违反了我们的社区标准，我们会在接到举报后尽快中断这些视频流。因此，我们提供了用户在视频直播时举报违规行为的渠道。”
Swedish Television News reported that there might have been two live videos on Facebook, the first showing a rape and the second capturing a man trying to force a woman to deny that she had been raped.
据瑞典电视新闻(Swedish Television News)报道，Facebook上可能有两个直播视频，第一个显示了强奸行为，第二个拍摄了一个男人试图强迫一个女人否认自己遭受强奸。
Mr. Berggren, the prosecutor, could not confirm this because the video was not available, Swedish Television News reported.
瑞典电视新闻报道，检察官贝里格伦无法确认这一点，因为尚未得到该视频。
Images of the suspects are being shared on social media, and hundreds of people are said to have seen the live video, Swedish Television News reported.
另据瑞典电视新闻报道，犯罪嫌疑人的照片正在社交媒体上分享，据说有数百人看过直播视频。
Linda Johansson, who lives near Hassleholm in southern Sweden, told Swedish Television News that she started watching the second live video around 8 a.m.
琳达·约翰松(Linda Johansson)住在瑞典南部的海斯勒尔摩(Hassleholm)附近，她告诉瑞典电视台，她在当天上午8点左右开始观看第二个直播视频。
“The girl was sitting in front of the camera while the man who filmed her tried to convince her to deny that she had been raped,” Ms. Johansson told Swedish Television News. “He was putting words into her mouth. He was taunting and laughing throughout the whole clip.”
“这个女孩坐在摄像机前，拍摄视频的男人试图说服她否认自己被强奸，”约翰松告诉瑞典电视新闻报道。“他逼着她说出那些话。整个视频片段里他都在讥讽和大笑。”
Over the past year, Facebook has made live, user-generated video a top priority. But the company’s push into live video has not been without disturbing occurrences. In July, three men in Norfolk, Va., were shot as they streamed video on Facebook, less than a week after the death of Philando Castile, whose killing by the police in St. Paul, Minn., was streamed live on Facebook.
在过去一年中，Facebook将发展用户提供的直播视频作为首要任务。但该公司向直播视频进军的过程中也伴随着令人不安的事件。去年7月在弗吉尼亚州诺福克，三个人在Facebook上直播视频时遭到枪击，不到一个星期之前，菲兰多·卡斯蒂尔(Philando Castile)被明尼苏达州圣保罗的警察杀死的情景被放到Facebook上直播。