“I never felt more like Janet Leigh in my life,” Ryan Gosling said with his best straight face.
“我这辈子从来没有感觉那么像珍妮特·李(Janet Leigh)过，”瑞恩·高斯林(Ryan Gosling)摆出他最正经的表情说。
The filmmaker Derek Cianfrance, who has known Mr. Gosling for seven years and directed him in two films, chimed in, “You have a nice figure, like she does.”
导演德里克·斯安弗朗斯(Derek Cianfrance)在旁帮腔：“你身材很漂亮，跟她一样。”他跟高斯林相识已经有7年，执导过高斯林演的两部电影。
Mr. Gosling replied: “The hair. That’s why I went platinum.”
高斯林回答说：“还有头发。我把头发染成铂金色就是为了像她。”
The two men were slumped on a sofa in a suite at the Waldorf-Astoria recently, legs up on a coffee table, evidently happy to reprise the bantering double act they honed while promoting the acclaimed 2010 indie drama “Blue Valentine.” Speaking of their second film together, “The Place Beyond the Pines,” opening Friday, they were not exactly finishing each other’s sentences — the voluble Mr. Cianfrance tends to finish his own — but had clearly settled into an established rhythm. Mr. Cianfrance (pronounced SEE-in-france), 39, spoke with earnest passion; Mr. Gosling, 32, mostly listened and smiled, contributing the occasional wry remark and arched eyebrow.
近日某天，这两个男人瘫坐在华尔道夫酒店(Waldorf-Astoria)套房的一张沙发里，腿伸在茶几上，一唱一和地调侃逗趣；两人2010年在宣传广受好评的独立剧情片《蓝色情人节》(Blue Valentine)时就展示过这种才能，现在再次用上，显然十分开心。他们合作的第二部电影《松林外》(The Place Beyond the Pines)将在周五上映，在谈到这部片子时，两人没有接着对方的话说——主要是健谈的斯安弗朗斯在说话，但是明显沿用了之前的谈话节奏。斯安弗朗斯39岁，言谈中带着真挚的热情，高斯林32岁，大多数时候都是在倾听和微笑，只是偶尔揶揄一下，抬抬眉毛。
Mr. Cianfrance was describing the unusual structure of “The Place Beyond the Pines,” a triptych of related stories, as a homage to what he called “the baton pass” of “Psycho,” in which the top-billed Janet Leigh made a famously premature exit.
斯安弗朗斯描述了《松林外》不同寻常的结构，它由三个相关的故事组成，是对他所说的《惊魂记》(Psycho)的“接力棒传递”致敬。珍妮特·李饰演的女主角在《惊魂记》中的过早退场非常出名。
“The Place Beyond the Pines” begins with the faintly mythical tale of Luke (Mr. Gosling), a nomadic motorcycle stunt rider who rolls back into an upstate New York town and reconnects with an ex, the mother of his child (Eva Mendes, with whom Mr. Gosling has been romantically linked since the shoot). The second segment follows Avery (Bradley Cooper), a police officer struggling to escape the shadow of his father, a powerful politician. The third explores the aftermath of the event that links Luke and Avery, revisiting some of the characters 15 years later.
《松林外》的第一部分讲述了卢克（Luke，高斯林扮演）略为传奇的故事，他是一位漂泊四方的摩托车特技车手，回到纽约州北部的小镇，与前女友（伊娃·门德斯[Eva Mendes]扮演，她在该片拍摄期间与高斯林产生恋情）重逢，发现自己已经有了个孩子。第二部分的主角艾弗里（Avery，布莱德利·库珀[Bradley Cooper]扮演）是一名警察，有一个有权有势的政客父亲，他艰难地试图摆脱父亲的阴影。第三部分则是在15年后重访部分角色，探究把卢克和艾弗里联系到一起的事件的余波。
“Pines” received mixed reviews when it played at the Toronto International Film Festival in September, with The Guardian calling it “ambitious and epic, perhaps to a fault” and The Hollywood Reporter noting that it “packs moments of searing power.”
《松林外》去年在多伦多国际电影节上映时，获得的评价褒贬不一。《卫报》(The Guardian)称它“雄心勃勃，有史诗感，也许到了用力过度的地步”，《好莱坞报道者》(The Hollywood Reporter)则称它“充满了具有灼热力量的片段”。
Each story within the film concerns fatherhood and the burden of legacy. “It’s the idea of trying to avoid something, and ending up colliding into it,” Mr. Cianfrance said. “Luke is trying to avoid his son growing up without a father. Avery is trying to avoid being his father’s son. Every character in the film deals with that. They’re avoiding a bit of destiny.” Despite his departure a third of the way into the film, Mr. Gosling’s character looms over the rest of it. “Ryan is playing the legend that the movie’s built around,” Mr. Cianfrance said. “Whoever I cast as Avery had to be the flip side.” He knew Mr. Cooper was right when he met him and detected an edge of unease beneath the star surface. “I could see this storm inside of him, like a pot of boiling water with a lid on it,” Mr. Cianfrance said. “I wrote the role for Bradley to play with that — a guy who’s paraded around as a hero but inside feels corrupted.”
《松林外》中的每一个故事都跟父亲身份和上一代遗留的负担有关。“这部电影的想法是，你努力避开某些东西，最终却跟它撞上，”斯安弗朗斯说，“卢克想要避免自己的儿子在没有父亲的状况下长大。艾弗里试图避免成为他父亲那样的人。电影里的每个角色都在面对这个问题。他们基本上没有避开宿命。”尽管高斯林的角色在电影的1/3处就退场了，但他的影子一直笼罩着其余部分。“这部电影围绕着瑞恩扮演的传奇角色展开，”斯安弗朗斯说，“无论我请哪位演员扮演艾弗里，他都必须是这个角色的对立面。”当他跟库珀见面，发觉其明星外表下不安的一面时，就认定了库珀是合适的人选。“我可以看到他内在的风暴，像一锅沸水，上面盖着盖子，”斯安弗朗斯说，“我写了这个角色，让布拉德利带着那种特质去表演。那个人像英雄那样四处风光，但你感觉到他的内心已被蛀蚀。”
Mr. Gosling, by contrast, was playing a man whose scars were more conspicuous. “I was trying to create a portrait of somebody who had made a lifetime of bad decisions, and tattoos were the best way,” he 
相比之下，高斯林的角色伤痕更加明显。“这个人一辈子都在做错误的决定，我试图描绘他的肖像，纹身就是最好的描绘方式，”他说。
In experimenting with (temporary) tattoos he went a bit overboard. “I had no restraint,” Mr. Gosling said. “They were crawling up towards my face.” After one regrettable choice — in the shape of an exclamation mark, under his eye — he said he told Mr. Cianfrance he wanted it removed before filming: “But Derek said, ‘Well, this movie is about consequences.’ ”
在测试（临时）纹身的时候，他做得过火了一点。“我没有设定界限，”高斯林说，“纹身蔓延到我的脸部。”在试过一个令他后悔的纹身后——在眼睛下方纹上惊叹号形状的图案——他说他告诉斯安弗朗斯，希望能在拍摄前去掉它，“但是德里克说，‘这部电影讲的就是做事存在后果。’”
Mortifying as it was, the tattoo served its purpose. “I felt this shame that in a way became the foundation of the character,” Mr. Gosling said. Luke’s newfound fatherhood inspires a sense of responsibility, which paradoxically compels him to a life of crime. “When I look at the movie,” Mr. Gosling added, “I see this melting pot of all these masculine clichés: motorcycles, muscles, tattoos, guns, and yet when faced with this mirror, which is his child, he sees that none of those things make you a man.”
这个纹身虽然让人感觉尴尬，但效果很好。高斯林说：“我觉得这种羞愧感在某种程度上奠定了该角色的基础。”卢克发现自己已成人父，这激发了他的责任感，却反而导致他走上了犯罪道路。高斯林接着说：“我看电影的时候，看到摩托车、肌肉、纹身、枪，这些男性气概的传统标志组成了一个拼盘。但他的孩子却是一面镜子，当他看向这面镜子的时候，发现之前那些东西都没能让他成为一名男子汉。”
Mr. Gosling recalled that his first meeting with Mr. Cooper was on camera, catching a glimpse of each other through a door.
高斯林回忆说，在拍摄的时候，他第一次跟库珀相遇，是通过一扇门瞥见对方。
“It was like two alpha wolves, these two guys peeking at each other,” Mr. Cianfrance said. He added with a laugh, “I was reading a lot of Jack London at the time.”
“这两个家伙就像是两匹头狼，偷偷打量对方，”斯安弗朗斯说。笑了一下，他接着说：“我当时读了很多杰克·伦敦(Jack London)的书。”
On “Blue Valentine” Mr. Cianfrance had Mr. Gosling and Michelle Williams live together for a month in what would be their characters’ marital home. For “Pines” he again wanted to “put the actors in an aquarium of real life,” he said. They shot in police precincts and used actual tellers for bank robberies. Mr. Cianfrance modeled chase and getaway scenes after rough-and-tumble reality shows like “Cops.”
拍《蓝色情人节》时，斯安弗朗斯让高斯林和米歇尔·威廉姆斯(Michelle Williams)在他们角色的婚房里一起住了一个月。他说在拍《松林外》时，他想再次“把演员放在现实生活的水族馆中”。他们在真正的警察局里拍摄，并在银行抢劫场景中使用了真正的柜员。他还把《传奇警察》(Cops)这种杂乱无章的真人秀当做蓝本，拍摄追逐逃跑的场景。
While Rick Miller, a veteran stuntman, handled the most dangerous scenes, Mr. Gosling, a motorcycle enthusiast, trained for months and performed many stunts. One robbery scene was designed as a single-take set piece that allowed no room for error. “There’s no place to cut or hide a stuntman,” Mr. Cianfrance said. “Ryan had to rob the bank, come out, start his motorcycle — it doesn’t start, finally it starts — go out into traffic, be pursued by a cop, blow through an intersection and avoid, like, 36 cars. We shot that scene 22 times.”
虽然最危险的特技场面由资深替身演员里克·米勒(Rick Miller)表演，但高斯林自己也是一名摩托车爱好者，经过几个月的培训后，他亲自表演了很多特技。有一个抢劫场景需要用单一镜头拍摄，中间不能犯任何错。“那就完全不能使用替身演员，”斯安弗朗斯说，“瑞恩必须亲自去抢银行，然后跑出来，启动摩托车——摩托车最开始启动不了，后来终于启动——进入滚滚车流，后面有警察的追车，瑞安还要冲过路口，避开大约36辆汽车。那个镜头我们拍了22条。”
How many did Mr. Cianfrance think were usable? “Just that last one.”
斯安弗朗斯觉得有多少条可以用？“只有最后那一条。”
Mr. Gosling deadpanned, “Welcome to my world.”
高斯林面无表情地说：“欢迎来到我的世界。”
“The Place Beyond the Pines” continues the somewhat unexpected run of tough-guy roles for Mr. Gosling, not so long ago known for sensitive romances and indie dramas. This interest in violence, he acknowledged, began with Nicolas Winding Refn’s stylized, blood-soaked “Drive” (2011). Mr. Gosling has since worked with Mr. Refn again, playing a vigilante in the Thai boxing world in “Only God Forgives,” due this year. “ ‘Drive’ is a dream, ‘Only God Forgives’ is a nightmare,” Mr. Gosling said. “I feel very fortunate to be able to go back and forth between those wildly different realities.”
不久之前，高斯林还以温馨爱情片和独立剧情片闻名，他在《松林外》中继续扮演硬汉角色多少有些出人意料。高斯林承认，他对暴力题材的兴趣始于尼古拉斯·温丁·雷弗恩(Nicolas Winding Refn)嗜血的风格化电影《亡命驾驶》（Drive，2011年）。之后高斯林跟雷弗恩再次合作，在今年将上映的《唯神能恕》(Only God Forgives)中出演了泰拳圈子的一个治安队员。“《亡命驾驶》是一场梦，《唯神能恕》是一场噩梦。”高斯林说，“我感到非常幸运，可以在这些完全不同的现实之间来来去去。”
For their next projects Mr. Gosling and Mr. Cianfrance have reversed roles, and admit to having taken cues from each other. Mr. Cianfrance can be seen in “Towheads,” a comic psychodrama directed by his wife, Shannon Plumb, that also stars their two sons, Walker and Cody. (It will be shown at the New Directors/New Films festival in New York this week.)
在他们各自的下一部电影中，高斯林和斯安弗朗斯交换了“角色”，而且他们都承认从彼此那里得到了启发。斯安弗朗斯在妻子莎伦·普拉姆(Shannon Plumb)导演的喜剧心理片《浅金头发的人》(Towheads)中扮演了一个角色，他们的两个儿子沃克(Walker)和科迪(Cody)也参演了这部电影（该片本周将在纽约的新导演/新电影节上映）。
“It’s like a funny ‘Woman Under the Influence,’ ” Mr. Gosling said.
“它就像是《权势下的女人》(Woman Under the Influence)的滑稽版，”高斯林说。
Mr. Cianfrance added, “It’s like ‘Blue Valentine’ but a slapstick comedy.”
斯安弗朗斯接着说：“它像《蓝色情人节》，但却是一部喜剧片。”
Mr. Gosling is making his directing debut this year with “How to Catch a Monster,” which will star Christina Hendricks, his “Drive” co-star, and Ms. Mendes. All he will say about the film is that it was inspired by a screening of “Drive” at Cannes. When Ms. Hendricks’s character meets a sudden, gruesome end “the audience gave a standing ovation,” Mr. Gosling said. “It was the strangest thing I’d ever been a part of, and in some way my movie is a bit about that experience.”
高斯林今年则在拍他的导演处女作《如何抓住一只怪兽》(How to Catch a Monster)，演员阵容包括他在《亡命驾驶》合作过的克里斯蒂娜·亨德里克斯(Christina Hendricks)以及门德斯。关于这部电影，他只透露说，其灵感来自于在戛纳电影节上放映《亡命驾驶》时出现的一个场面。当亨德里克斯的角色遇到一个“突然、可怕的结果”时，观众们纷纷起立鼓掌。“这是我经历过的最奇怪的事情，《如何抓住一只怪兽》的主题在某种程度上跟这件事有点关系。”
Being on Mr. Cianfrance’s sets has been useful. “It’s hard to explain the amount of effort I watch him put into making things look effortless,” Mr. Gosling said.
跟斯安弗朗斯合作的经历对他很有帮助。高斯林说：“我看到他为了让事情看起来毫不费力付出了多少努力，真是一言难尽。”
With “Blue Valentine,” Mr. Gosling said, “I feel like time was the star of that movie. It took 12 years for him to make, and that made it unique.” But on “Pines” “we didn’t have a lot of time,” he continued. “I thought we were rushing it, and we had to make snap decisions. But that became the essential ingredient. It was very different from ‘Blue’ but in the same way Derek found a way to make the process the key.”
对于《蓝色情人节》，高斯林说：“我觉得那部戏里的明星是时间。德里克用了12年时间来拍那部戏，把它拍得独一无二。”但在拍《松林外》时，“我们没有太多时间，”他说，“我觉得我们是在赶工，不得不当机立断做出决定，但是那成为了《松林外》的重要组成部分。它跟《蓝色情人节》大不相同，但德里克同样找到了办法，让过程成为了电影的关键。”