When passengers boarded Swiss International Air Lines Flight 17 from Zurich to New York City last weekend, they probably had no idea that the cargo hold beneath them was also functioning as a bank vault, carrying tens of millions of dollars.
上周末，当旅客登上从苏黎世飞往纽约的瑞士国际航空公司(Swiss International Air Lines)17航班时，他们可能不知道自己脚下的货舱同时也是一个银行金库，装载着数千万美元。
An American bank was sending cash from its Swiss office back home — something that occurs with surprising frequency, even in the digital age. While money can be wired, credited, debited and transferred around the world in a split second, there has never been more American currency in circulation, and the amount keeps growing. And that cash moves around frequently, often carried discreetly in the belly of commercial airliners.
美国的一家银行正在把现金从它的瑞士分部运回美国，这种事情发生之频繁超出人们的想象，尽管我们身在数码时代。现金可以通过电汇、计入账户贷方、记入账户借方和转账的方式瞬间在全球流动，但目前处于流通中的美国货币数额之巨是空前的，而且还一直在增加。这些现金的移动非常频繁，通常是悄悄装在商业客机的腹部。
Someone, it seems, was wise to the shipment on the Swiss plane.
有人好像知道这架瑞士飞机运载着美元。
By the time the cash reached its destination, a Federal Reserve center in the New York area, over $1 million dollars had vanished.
到这些现金抵达其目的地，即纽约地区的一家联邦储备中心时，100多万美元消失了。
“We are investigating the apparent disappearance of $1.2 million in U.S. currency,” James Margolin, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said on Tuesday.
“显然，120万美元（约合737万元人民币）消失了，我们正在对此事进行调查，”联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)发言人詹姆斯·马戈林(James Margolin)周二说。
Much about the theft remained unknown, including exactly where and when it occurred.
有关此次失窃事件的许多细节尚不得而知，包括它具体是在何时何地发生的。
The last time the money was seen was before it was loaded onto the plane in Zurich, according to a law enforcement official who insisted on anonymity because the investigation was continuing.
据一名执法官员称，那些钱最后一次被人看到是在苏黎世被装上飞机之前。由于调查还在进行中，这名官员坚持要求匿名。
The cash that was stolen — 12 packets of $100 bills, each totaling $100,000 — had been placed in a secure container that was then placed inside a larger container, the official said.
他说，被盗的钱是12包百元美钞，每一包10万美元。它们被放在一个安全的集装箱里，然后这个集装箱又被放进了一个更大的集装箱里。
The flight arrived at Kennedy International Airport at 2 p.m. on Saturday. The container was unloaded and sent to the Federal Reserve center. Only when it arrived there did the authorities discover that the money was missing.
航班于周六下午2点抵达肯尼迪国际机场(Kennedy International Airport)。集装箱被卸下飞机，送往联邦储备中心。当集装箱抵达联邦储备中心时，当局才发现钱不见了。
“What we don’t know is at what point in the journey that the money disappears,” the law enforcement official said.
“我们不知道钱是在这段旅程的哪个节点上消失的，”前述执法官员说。
A spokeswoman for the Federal Reserve in the New York area did not immediately return a call seeking comment. The name of the American bank involved in the transaction was not released. The news of the theft was reported on Tuesday by The New York Post.
纽约地区美联储的发言人没有立即回复请其置评的电话。涉事银行的名字也没有被公布。有关此次失窃事件的新闻是《纽约邮报》(The New York Post)周二报道出来的。
Susanne Muhlemann, a spokeswoman for Swiss International Air Lines, declined to comment on the theft.
瑞士国际航空公司发言人苏珊·米勒曼(Susanne Muhlemann)拒绝对此次失窃事件置评。
The airline, through its Swiss WorldCargo division, promotes itself as a global leader in the shipment of valuable goods.
凭借旗下的附属公司瑞士货运(Swiss WorldCargo)，瑞航宣称自己是全球领先的贵重物品运输商。
“Valuables consignments today extend far beyond gold, money and precious gems,” according to a brochure for the airline. “An ability to transport highly confidential documents, lifesaving medicines, paintings and other works of art, valuable collections and computer chips safely and securely has never been more essential.”
“如今的贵重物品托运远不止黄金、现金和珍贵宝石，”瑞航的一份宣传册上说，“安全而稳妥地运送高度机密的文件、性命攸关的药物、画作及其他艺术品、贵重的收藏品以及计算机芯片，已经成了一种空前重要的能力。”
Despite safeguards that include a computer-based tracking system and the briefing of all significant individuals in the supply chain to ensure loyalty and discretion, it remained a mystery how $1.2 million vanished.
尽管安保措施包括一个基于计算机的追踪系统，而且要求供应链上的所有重要人员必须忠诚和保密，但那120万美元是如何消失的依然是个迷。
An airline official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said there was no indication that the money had been stolen from the plane. However, the American law enforcement official said it was too early to reach any firm conclusions.
一位要求不具名的航空公司官员称，没有迹象表明钱是在飞机上被盗的。然而，前述美国执法官员称，现在要得出确切结论还为时过早。
If the money was stolen at Kennedy Airport, it would rank as one of the largest robberies in the airport’s history — in 1978 an estimated $5 million in cash and $1 million in jewels were stolen from a Lufthansa Airlines cargo building, a crime that was dramatized in the movie “Goodfellas.”
如果这笔钱是在肯尼迪机场被盗的，那将是该机场历史上最大的盗窃案之一。1978年，汉莎航空(Lufthansa Airlines)运载的约500万美元现金和价值100万美元的珠宝在该机场的一个集装箱库房内被盗，该案后来出现在了电影《好家伙》(Goodfellas)的剧情中。