Yim Lon nurses bitter memories of how three years ago the local authorities forced her and her family to dismantle their small home and move it to make way for a sugar plantation.
严朗(Yim Lon)怀有一段苦涩的记忆：三年前，当地政府强迫她和家人拆迁出自己的小家园，为一个甘蔗种植园让出位置。
The Phnom Penh Sugar Company paid her a few hundred dollars, less than a tenth of what Ms. Yim, 53, says she believes the family’s small plot of farmland was worth. She dreams of being allowed to move their two-room house, made of wood planks and steel siding, back to the site near a stream where they used to grow rice. She is convinced that the other culprits are the Europeans, who buy sugar from Phnom Penh Sugar. “If Europe continues buying sugar from the company, then we will continue suffering,” she said.
金边糖业公司(Phnom Penh Sugar Company)补偿了她几百美元，53岁严朗说，她觉得家里那一小块农田的实际价值至少是这笔钱的十倍。现在她家有一栋两间屋的房子，用木板和钢壁板建成，她梦想着能将其搬回到他们原来种植水稻的地方。她相信，这件事的另一个罪魁祸首是欧洲人，因为他们从金边购买食糖。“如果欧洲人继续从这家公司进货，我们就会继续遭殃，”她说。
Phnom Penh Sugar says that it has behaved fairly and obeyed local laws. Newly created sugar plantations across Cambodia have created thousands of cash-paying jobs for destitute migrant workers and subsistence farmers, and hundreds of jobs for skilled factory workers.
金边糖业公司说，它的做法很公平，而且也符合当地法规。柬埔寨各地新建成的甘蔗种植园，让数以千计的贫困农民工和自耕农获得了有现金结算的工作机会，还为技术工人提供了数以百计的工厂岗位。
But the corporate practice in Cambodia of obtaining tens of thousands of acres from the government as economic development concessions for large sugar plantations, while paying modest compensation to farmers pushed off the land, places a harsh light on international trade pacts that are meant to help the world’s poorest countries.
但是，柬埔寨发生的这种公司行为——为了建设大型甘蔗种植园，以“国家契约”(economic development concession)的形式从政府那里获得数以万亩计的土地，给被迫离开土地的农民提供少量补偿——让旨在帮助世界上最贫穷国家的国际贸易协定变了味道。
To many activists who have heard the tales of people like Ms. Yim, the trade pacts that foster exports can have the unintended effect of encouraging land grabs by wealthy, politically connected families.
很多听说过严朗这种遭遇的活动家认为，促进出口的贸易协定可能会产生意想不到的效果：鼓励有政治人脉的富裕家庭夺取土地。
Nearly all of Cambodia’s sugar exports go to the European Union under the Everything But Arms program, which eliminates import duties for the sugar. The European Union also sets high minimum prices for imported sugar, well above world levels. Western activists have tried in recent months to organize consumer boycotts against companies that have bought Cambodian sugar, notably Tate & Lyle Sugars, which is owned by American Sugar Refining of West Palm Beach, Fla.
柬埔寨对欧盟的几乎所有食糖出口，都是在《除武器外一切都行》(Everything but arms)协议下进行的，该协议免除了食糖的进口关税。对于进口的食糖，欧洲联盟还设置了较高的最低价格，远高于世界平均水平。最近几个月，西方活动人士试图组织消费者抵制从柬埔寨购买食糖的公司，特别是利勒糖业公司(Tate & Lyle Sugars)，它隶属于美国佛罗里达州西棕榈滩的美国炼糖公司(American Sugar Refining)。
The European Union has held high-level talks with Cambodian officials about the sugar issue. But it has refrained so far from opening a formal investigation into whether Cambodian sugar should lose duty-free access to the European Union.
欧盟已经就食糖问题与柬埔寨官员举行了高级别会谈。但是迄今为止，它仍然拒绝开启正式调查，以判断柬埔寨的食糖是否应该失去免税进入欧盟的资格。
In a written response to questions, Ambassador Jean-François Cautain, the head of the European Union’s delegation to Cambodia, pointed to statistical measures. Rising exports helped Cambodia triple average annual income per person in the last decade, to $980, while reducing poverty to a fifth of the country’s population, he wrote. “We also need to consider the benefits the overall Cambodian economy gets from the ‘Everything But Arms’ scheme and the harm the country would suffer if we remove it,” he wrote.
在一份书面答复中，欧盟的柬埔寨代表团团长让-弗朗索瓦·科坦(Jean-François Cautain)大使引用了一些统计数据。他写道，出口增长帮助柬埔寨人均年收入在过去10年中增加了两倍，达980美元（约合人民币6000元），同时把贫困人口减少到全国人口的五分之一。 “我们还需要考虑《除武器外一切都行》给柬埔寨整体经济带来的裨益，以及取消这个协议将给柬埔寨造成的损失，”他写道。
Western and Cambodian activists have called for the exclusion of Cambodian sugar from duty-free treatment in Europe, saying that it triggers corporate land grabs.
西方和柬埔寨的活动人士们表示，柬埔寨制糖业激发了企业对土地的巧取豪夺，呼吁欧盟取消对柬埔寨食糖的免税待遇。
“The land is deeply connected to the spiritual life of the people,” said Chum Narin, the land and natural resources program head at the Community Legal Education Center, a nonprofit group in Phnom Penh.
“土地跟人的精神生活有着紧密的联系，”准纳林(Chum Narin)说，他是金边非营利性组织“社区法律教育中心”(Community Legal Education Center)的土地和自然资源项目负责人。
American Sugar Refining said that its Tate & Lyle unit had bought only two “small shipments” over the years from Cambodia. The first was in May 2011 and the second in June 2012, the company said. It also said that it “has not received Cambodian sugar for over a year and has no plans for further purchases.”
美国炼糖公司说，它旗下的利勒糖业公司这些年来仅从柬埔寨购买了“两小批货物”。第一次是在2011年5月，第二次是在2012年6月。它还表示：“已经一年多没有从柬埔寨进货了，而且没有进一步购买的计划。”
Both of American Sugar’s purchases were from the KSL Group, another company producing sugar in Cambodia. Phnom Penh Sugar said that it sold sugar to businesses in Spain and Italy, but it declined to identify the buyers.
美国炼糖公司购买的这两批食糖都来自柬埔寨制糖公司KSL集团。金边糖业说自己的买家来自西班牙和意大利，但拒绝透露这些公司的名字。
Sugar represented only $25.2 million of the $1.34 billion in Cambodian products that the European Union bought in the first six months of this year. Most of the European imports from Cambodia are garments.
欧盟今年前6个月从柬埔寨进口了13.4亿美元的商品，食糖仅占2520万美元。欧洲从柬埔寨进口的商品主要是服装。
But the developing sugar industry has created jobs chopping sugar cane for previously destitute migrant workers from hill villages even poorer than Omliang Commune. Sugar refineries have also brought multimillion-dollar investments, roads and other amenities to remote areas where investors have long feared to venture in an oftentimes chaotic country like Cambodia.
但是，发展制糖业为一些来自穷困山村的农民工提供了砍甘蔗的就业机会，那些山村甚至比严朗居住的奥梁公社更加贫穷。制糖业也带来了成百上千万美元的投资，以及通往柬埔寨偏远地区的道路和其他设施；在柬埔寨等比较混乱的国家，投资者长久以来害怕到这样的偏远地区投资。
Phnom Penh Sugar says that it has spent $220 million on its refinery, brought power lines into the valley, constructed a water-treatment plant and a school, erected dormitories for skilled factory workers and built roads and bridges to replace muddy tracks.
金边糖业说，它已经花费了2.2亿美元在炼糖设施上，并将电线拉进奥梁公社所在的山谷，修建了一座水处理厂和一所学校，为工厂技术工人建起了宿舍，此外还修建了道路和桥梁来替代泥泞的小路。
Local residents, including Ms. Yim, complain that the school is small. The displaced say they do not have access to the treated water, but must rely on newly dug wells at the edge of the valley where they moved their houses. Well water is often less clean than the stream that used to flow near their homes and leaves what they say is a mysterious white residue when boiled.
包括严朗在内的当地居民抱怨称，学校很小。经历了拆迁的居民表示，他们用不上处理后的水，迁到山谷的边缘后，他们只能在那里挖井取水。井水常常比他们旧家附近的溪水浑浊，煮过后会留下奇怪的白色残存物。
The influx of new residents to cut the cane has infuriated longer-term residents like Ms. Yim, who regard the migrants as interlopers in their communities. “It’s not good for the village because the outsiders make money,” she said.
砍甘蔗的新居民涌入这里，让严朗这样的老居民感到生气。他们把这些人看成是自己社区的闯入者。“这对村子没好处，因为赚钱的是外地人，”她说。
The root of the problem, not surprisingly, goes back to the horrors of the Khmer Rouge years. The Khmer Rouge, the Maoist movement that ran Cambodia from 1975 to 1979, are most notorious for causing the death of as many as a quarter of Cambodia’s people, many of them murdered in the country’s “killing fields” and prisons. Others died from large-scale starvation.
不出所料的是，这个问题的根源可以追溯到红色高棉(Khmer Rouge)统治下的恐怖年代。红色高棉是1975年至1979年间统治柬埔寨的毛派运动，它最为恶名昭彰之处是导致柬埔寨多达四分之一的人口丧生，其中很多人是在该国的“屠杀场”和监狱中遭到杀害的。另一些人则死于大规模的饥荒。
But a less-known aspect of their rule was the systematic destruction of nearly all land records in Cambodia. Land ownership is now ambiguous. The country has gradually regained stability since 1998, when government forces overran the last of the Khmer Rouge’s jungle redoubts in western Cambodia, including the land in and around Omliang Commune.
但红色高棉统治一个不太为人所知的方面是，它系统性地破坏了几乎所有的柬埔寨土地记录，所以现在该国的土地所有权很不清晰。1998年，政府军占领了红色高棉在柬埔寨西部最后的丛林堡垒，包括奥梁公社及其附近的土地。自那以后，柬埔寨逐渐恢复了稳定。