After Amy Lam prematurely went into labor and gave birth to their baby at home, her husband, Gilbert Kwok, thought the worst was over. Once emergency responders had arrived and loaded Ms. Lam, 34, into an ambulance, the couple took photos with the newborn and called family members, smiling and elated that — despite the unexpected circumstances — their son had arrived.
艾米·林(Amy Lam)提前开始分娩、在家中诞下宝宝之后，她的丈夫吉尔伯特·郭(Gilbert Kwok)以为最坏的阶段已经过去。紧急救援人员赶到现场，把34岁的林女士抬上救护车后，夫妻俩还和新生儿一起拍了照片，给家人打了电话，他们面带微笑，对儿子的降生兴高采烈，虽然降生的情况出人意料。
Less than 12 hours later, on Aug. 1, Ms. Lam was pronounced dead. She had bled to death after a series of surgical procedures at Harlem Hospital Center.
然而，在不到12小时之后的8月1日，医生宣布林女士死亡。她在哈莱姆医院中心(Harlem Hospital Center)经历了一系列手术之后，因失血过多去世。
On Monday, on behalf of Mr. Kwok and Ms. Lam’s family, lawyers filed a notice of claim against the hospital, run by NYC Health & Hospitals, as well as more than a half-dozen doctors who treated Ms. Lam, alleging malpractice and medical negligence.
周一，代表郭先生和林女士家人的律师提交了索赔通知，以医疗事故和医疗疏忽的指控，向纽约市健康与医院集团(NYC Health& Hospitals)经管的那家医院、以及超过六名为林女士提供过治疗的医生寻求赔偿。
Nearly two months after Ms. Lam’s death, an autopsy from the New York City medical examiner’s office is still pending, leaving many questions unanswered. Mr. Kwok, 33, has been left to care for their premature newborn, Zachary, and their 3-year-old son, Abel, while also grappling with his wife’s sudden, inexplicable death.
林女士去世已经快两个月了，纽约市法医办公室的尸检工作仍未完成，许多问题仍没有答案。33岁的郭先生不得不一个人照料他们的早产儿扎卡里(Zachary)和他们3岁的儿子阿贝尔(Abel)，同时还要努力面对妻子突如其来的、莫名其妙的死亡。
“When the boys ask me what happened, how do I answer them?” Mr. Kwok said in an interview last week.
“将来孩子们问我发生了什么事情的时候，我该怎么回答呢？”郭先生上周接受采访时说。
NYC Health & Hospitals would not comment on the case because of pending litigation and patient privacy laws. But Robert de Luna, a spokesman for the agency, said it is committed to ensuring patient safety and providing the best care and experience. “Our thoughts are with the family during this difficult time,” he said.
由于涉及待判诉讼，也由于患者隐私法，纽约市健康与医院集团表示不对此案置评。但该机构的发言人罗伯特·德卢纳(Robert de Luna)说，他们致力于保障患者安全，致力于为病人提供最好的照理和体验。“在这个困难时期，我们想的是那个家庭，”他说。
The United States is one of the few countries in the world whose maternal mortality rate has risen in recent years despite improvements in health care, according to a study released last week by the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation.
据健康指标和评估研究所(Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation)上周公布的一项研究，尽管医疗保健水平大为改善，但少数国家近年来的孕产妇死亡率出现了上升，美国是其中之一。
But the increase in recent years has been driven largely by heart problems and chronic medical conditions, like diabetes and obesity, researchers say.
研究人员表示，近年来孕产妇死亡率的上升，在很大程度上是由心脏问题，以及糖尿病、肥胖症等慢性疾病造成的。
Maternal deaths caused by hemorrhaging, as in Ms. Lam’s case, have been on the decline nationally, according to a study published last year in the journal Obstetrics & Gynecology.
《妇产科》杂志(Obstetrics& Gynecology)去年发表的一项研究显示，像林女士这样的由出血引起的产妇死亡病例在美国呈下降趋势。
In New York City, 38 pregnancy-related deaths were caused by hemorrhaging from 2006 to 2010, the most recent data available. More than 630,000 live births took place during those years, according to the city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.
根据能够找到的最新数据，2006年至2010年间，纽约市有38例与妊娠有关的死亡是由出血导致的。纽约市健康与心理卫生局(Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)的数据显示，同期内有逾63万名活产婴儿出生。
Dr. Mary E. D’Alton, chairwoman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Columbia University Medical Center, said maternal deaths from hemorrhaging were “still quite rare,” though, she added, “I don’t think we can say it’s a problem of the past.”
哥伦比亚大学医学中心(Columbia University Medical Center)妇产系主任玛丽·E·奥尔顿博士(Mary E. D’Alton)说，出血导致产妇死亡“仍相当罕见”，不过她又说，“我觉得，我们还不能说这个问题已不复存在。”
Dr. D’Alton also works with the Safe Motherhood Initiative to help decrease preventable deaths related to childbirth. Still, she said, “There are rare exceptions when, despite the best management, death may not be preventable.”
多尔顿博士也与“安全母亲倡议”组织(Safe Motherhood Initiative)一起工作，帮助降低与分娩有关的可预防的死亡事故。不过她也表示，“有一些非常少见的例外情况，就算做了最好的管理，可能也无法阻止死亡。”
Ms. Lam and Mr. Kwok, both natives of Hong Kong, had come to New York for Ms. Lam’s graduate studies at Columbia University’s business journalism program. She had graduated in May 2015 and was working as a reporter at Brightwire Inc., a financial news agency. But what she wanted most was a younger brother for Abel, Mr. Kwok said.
林女士和郭先生都是香港本地人，此前因林女士来哥伦比亚大学读商业新闻专业的研究生课程而来到纽约。2015年5月毕业后，她在金融新闻公司Brightwire Inc.当记者。但郭先生表示，她最想要的是给阿贝尔生一个弟弟。
The couple had planned to move back to Hong Kong, but when Ms. Lam became pregnant, they decided to wait until October to avoid taking Ms. Lam on a long international flight. Moreover, they wanted the baby to be born an American citizen, with a United States passport. They trusted that the country’s medical care was the best.
这对夫妇之前已经计划搬回香港，但因为林女士怀了孕，于是推迟到10月份，以免她怀着身孕乘坐长时间的国际航班。此外，他们也希望孩子能一出生便成为美国公民，持美国护照。他们相信，这个国家的医疗条件是最好的。
The baby was due at the end of August. Doctors told Ms. Lam her pregnancy was healthy and normal, but that the baby might come a bit early, Mr. Kwok said.
孩子的预产期是在8月底。郭先生表示，医生告诉林女士她的妊娠状态很正常，没有健康问题，但孩子有可能会稍早一点降临人世。
Early he came. On the eve of Aug. 1, Ms. Lam was sleeping with Abel in her bed, just like any other night in their Harlem apartment. Feeling contractions, she went to Mount Sinai Beth Israel hospital, following instructions from her obstetrician. After being examined, she was told that she was not yet ready for labor, and that she should return home.
他果然提前出生了。8月1日前夜，林女士正在床上和阿贝尔睡觉，就像他们在位于哈莱姆的公寓度过的其他夜晚一样。她突然感到了宫缩，于是遵照她的产科医生的指示，前往西奈山以色列堂医院(Mount Sinai Beth Israel Hospital)。经过检查，院方告诉她还没到生产的时候，并表示她应该返回家中。
She went back to sleep in her apartment, and woke the next morning feeling intense pain and contractions. Around 11:30 a.m., she went into labor in the bathroom, and after a neighbor helped deliver the baby, was transported to the closest hospital, Harlem Hospital.
她回到公寓里睡觉，第二天早上醒来的时候感觉到剧烈的疼痛和宫缩。上午11点半左右，她在卫生间开始分娩，在一位邻居的帮助下产下婴儿，之后被送往离家最近的哈莱姆医院。
Ms. Lam had not yet delivered the placenta, so she was transferred to a labor ward where a doctor tried to remove the retained placenta manually. The procedure was unsuccessful, and Ms. Lam went into shock, her blood pressure dropping, according to the notice of claim, which was compiled using records from Harlem Hospital.
林女士还没有排出胎盘，所以她被送进产房，在那里，一名医生试图以手工操作帮她去掉依然附着在子宫上的胎盘。索赔通知书上称，这个手术不太成功，林女士陷入休克，血压快速下降。该通知书根据哈莱姆医院的就诊记录编写而成。
After a delay, Ms. Lam underwent a dilation and curettage procedure in which doctors removed her placenta by scraping the walls of her uterus. Toward the end of the surgery, her blood pressure dropped, her heart rate increased and doctors suspected she had begun to hemorrhage.
经过一段延误之后，医生开始给林女士进行子宫扩张刮除术，通过刮子宫内壁去掉胎盘。在手术即将结束的时候，她的血压突然下降，心率加快，医生们怀疑她已经开始大出血。
“However, the source and cause of the bleeding was not obtained and identified, nor were required steps taken to properly treat and address the internal bleeding,” according to the notice of claim filed by the family’s lawyer, Susan M. Karten.
“然而，院方找不到出血的地方，无法确定其原因，也没有采取应有的措施恰当地应对和解决内出血问题，”由这家人的律师苏珊·M·卡腾(Susan M. Karten)提交的索赔通知书中写道。
At 5 p.m., she was admitted to the intensive care unit, where she received rapid blood transfusions. But her vital signs were worsening, and her internal bleeding was progressing. Doctors asked Mr. Kwok for consent to perform an additional “exploratory” procedure. He said he did not understand much of what was happening, and was never told just how serious her condition was.
下午5点，她被送进重症监护室，接受快速输血。但她的生命指征持续恶化，内出血还在延续。医生们请郭先生同意他们再进行“探查”手术。他表示，他不太明白到底发生了什么，也一直没被告知她的情况有多严重。
“They said they needed to find out why she was unstable,” Mr. Kwok said.
“他们说需要找到她状况不稳定的原因，”郭先生说。
Doctors said the surgery would take several hours, so Mr. Kwok left the hospital to pick up Abel, who had been home with a neighbor all day. Back at home, at 9:32 p.m., he posted a photo on Facebook of the couple, smiling with their newborn son in the ambulance earlier that day.
医生们表示手术会持续几个小时，所以郭先生先离开了医院，去接和邻居在家里待了一天的阿贝尔。回到家中，他于晚上9点32分在Facebook页面上发布了一张照片，是夫妇二人当天早些时候在救护车上微笑着与新出生的儿子拍摄的合影。
“Promise me that we will take million more selfie again,” Mr. Kwok’s post read.
“答应我，我们还会再有无数张自拍，”郭先生在帖子中写道。
At 10 p.m., after Mr. Kwok had arrived home, he got a call from the hospital. Ms. Lam’s heart had stopped.
晚上10点，回到家中的郭先生接到医院的电话。林女士的心脏停止了跳动。
After trying to resuscitate her multiple times, doctors declared her dead at 10:37 p.m.
在多次尝试让她恢复知觉无果之后，医生宣布她于10点37分死亡。
When Mr. Kwok went inside the hospital room with Abel to see her, he told the toddler that his mother was just sleeping, and that he should say good night to her.
当郭先生带着阿贝尔走进病房看她的时候，他告诉这个年幼的孩子，母亲只是睡着了，应该跟她道声晚安。
“I just wanted her to wake up,” Mr. Kwok said, crying. “I feel like my heart got ripped out.”
“我只想让她醒过来，”郭先生哭着说。“我感觉自己的心被撕碎了。”
At Ms. Lam’s funeral in Chinatown later in August, her coffin was covered in red, white and yellow flowers and surrounded by a Hello Kitty stuffed animal and children’s toys. During the service, Abel ran around the room wearing a black funeral band on his arm, seemingly oblivious to what was happening. Next to Mr. Kwok, in the front row, lay Zachary, in a car seat, having left the hospital just a few days earlier.
林女士的葬礼在8月晚些时候于唐人街举办，她的棺材上覆盖着红色、白色和黄色的花朵，周边摆放着Hello Kitty毛绒玩具和其他一些儿童玩具。在葬礼上，阿贝尔胳膊上缠着黑纱，在屋子里跑来跑去，似乎意识不到发生了什么。郭先生坐在第一排，旁边的安全椅里躺着几天前刚刚出院的扎卡里。
“There’s so many what ifs,” Mr. Kwok said later. “What if we didn’t have a baby? What if we didn’t go to Harlem Hospital? Or what if we just didn’t come to the United States at all?”
“有太多的假如，”郭先生后来说。“假如我们没有要孩子，没去哈莱姆医院，或者根本就没来美国，是不是就会两样?”
Mr. Kwok has tried to maintain a sense of normalcy in the home, for Abel’s sake. After walking the toddler home from his summer camp recently, Abel started pointing in random directions, asking his father to keep walking.
为阿贝尔考虑，郭先生试图在家中维持一种正常感。不久前，郭先生陪他从夏令营走回家的时候，阿贝尔开始随便指着几个方向，要求父亲继续朝那边走。
When Mr. Kwok asked him why, he said, “I’m looking for Mommy.”
郭先生问他为什么，他回答，“我在找妈妈。”
Mr. Kwok did not hesitate. “Let’s find Mommy,” he said.
郭先生没有犹豫。“我们去找妈妈，”他说。