SEOUL, South Korea — When the short-track speed skater Viktor Ahn waved the Russian flag on his victory lap and sang the Russian national anthem on Saturday after winning the gold medal in the men’s 1,000 meters at Winter Olympics on Saturday, it was a poignant scene for South Koreans.
韩国首尔——周六，当短道速滑运动员维克托·安(Viktor Ahn)摘得冬季奥运会(Winter Olympics)男子1000米项目的金牌后，他绕场一周，一边挥舞着俄罗斯国旗，一边唱着俄罗斯国歌。对韩国人来说，这是一个酸楚的时刻。
Mr. Ahn, whose Korean name was Ahn Hyun-soo, was one of the best skaters South Korea had ever produced, winning many medals for his birth country, including five world championship titles in a row and three Olympic golds. Everyone knew his name in South Korea, where Olympic gold medals are strong symbols of national pride and their winners are looked on as patriots.
维克托·安在韩国的名字是安贤洙(Ahn Hyun-soo)，他是韩国历史上最优秀的滑冰运动员之一，为他的祖国赢得了许多奖牌，包括连续五次取得世界锦标赛的冠军和取得了三枚奥运会金牌。在韩国，奥运金牌是民族荣誉感的强烈象征，而取得金牌的人则被尊为爱国者。在这里，安贤洙这个名字无人不知。
“As a Korean, I wish he were singing the Korean national anthem,” Mr. Ahn’s father, Ahn Gi-won, told the South Korean news agency Yonhap in Sochi, Russia. “But however he tried in South Korea, he could have no opportunity to recover his reputation.”
安贤洙的父亲安吉元(Ahn Gi-won)在俄罗斯索契对韩国新闻机构韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap)说，“作为一个韩国人，我希望他唱的是韩国国歌。但他在韩国做了各种尝试，都没有机会恢复他的名誉。”
South Koreans are proud of the nation’s short-track speed skaters, who have won more Olympic gold medals than all of those participating in its other winter sports competitions combined.
韩国人对自己的短道速滑运动深感骄傲，韩国短道速滑运动员赢得的奥运会金牌数量要多过韩国参加所有其他冬奥会项目所得金牌的总和。
When after a bitter falling-out with South Korean sports officials, Mr. Ahn, 28, decided to switch his allegiance to Russia and adopt a Russian name in 2011, many South Koreans accused him of betrayal to get cash rewards from an Olympic host nation anxious to win its gold in short-track skating.
安贤洙现年28岁，2011年，在与韩国体育界官员发生激烈分歧之后，他决定做出改变，效忠俄罗斯，并取了一个俄罗斯名字。许多韩国人因此指责他背叛祖国，只是为了从一个急于在短道速滑项目上取得金牌的奥运会主办国手上获得现金奖励。
But others saw him as a victim of a sordid underside of their country’s star-studded short-track speed skating world, which has been plagued by accusations that coaches fostered factionalism, physically abused athletes and fixed matches to promote those they favored and to squash the careers of those they did not.
但其他人则视他为这个国家短道速滑世界丑恶面的牺牲品。这个星光熠熠的世界丑闻不断，有人说，教练们喜欢搞派系斗争，会体罚运动员，并操纵比赛来提拔那些他们喜欢的运动员，及去打压那些他们不喜欢的运动员。
By Sunday, South Korean media outlets, Internet bloggers and Twitter users were congratulating Mr. Ahn for his victory against their country’s scandal-ridden short-track speedskating authorities. “I am happier about his gold than a gold won by a South Korean,” one South Korean posted on Twitter.
到周日，韩国媒体、网络博客作者和Twitter用户纷纷祝贺安贤洙，恭喜他战胜了他们国家丑闻缠身的短道速滑运动管理机构。“比起一名韩国人得到金牌，他得到金牌更让我高兴，”一名韩国人在Twitter上写道。
After the 2006 Olympics in Turin, Italy, where he won three gold medals, Mr. Ahn was not allowed to rejoin the national team because, speedskating federation officials said, he suffered frequent injuries and was getting too old for a sport that needed to foster many talented youngsters.
在2006年意大利都灵的冬奥会上，安贤洙赢得了三枚金牌。但那之后，有关方面禁止他重回国家队，速滑联合会的官员表示，他经常受伤，年龄太大，而这项运动需要培养更多有才华的年轻运动员。
But Mr. Ahn and his father blamed the federation for turning its back on a storied skater during a temporary setback, a problem that South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, seemed to tacitly acknowledge.
安贤洙和他的父亲则指责速滑联合会，说它放弃了一位著名的滑冰运动员，只因为他遭遇了暂时的挫折。而韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)看来也默认了这个问题的存在。
“The player Ahn has the best skills but he cannot seek his dream as a South Korean but is playing for another country,” Ms. Park said last Monday after Mr. Ahn won the bronze medal in the men’s 1,500 meters after outracing South Korean skaters. “We must ask ourselves if his problem was not due to the unreasonableness in our sports community.”
“运动员安贤洙拥有最佳技巧，但他却无法作为韩国人来追逐他的梦想，而是代表另一个国家比赛，”朴槿惠上周一在安贤洙超越韩国选手赢得了男子1500米的铜牌之后说道。“我们必须自问，他的问题是不是源自我们体育界的不合理现状。”
She blamed “sports leaders who discriminate against certain athletes while recruiting players, " adding, “This practice buries the talent of great athletes and undermines the competitiveness of our sports teams.”
她批评“那些在选拔运动员时对一些选手有所歧视的体育界领导”，还说，“这种做法会埋没出色运动员的天才，破坏我们运动员团队的竞争力。”
After his short-track speedskating victory, Mr. Ahn kissed the ice. “For the past eight years, I have never lost sight of this moment,” he said. “This is the moment that I confirm that I made a right decision.”
在取得了短道速滑项目的胜利后，安贤洙亲吻了冰面。“在过去八年里，这一刻总在我的眼前闪现，”他说。“就在这个时刻，我确信我做了正确的决定。”
South Korea’s federation had no reaction to Mr. Ahn’s victory. Afterward, access to its website was disrupted, possibly because of a flood of angry users who wanted to criticize the federation, South Korean media reported.
韩国的速滑联合会没有对安贤洙的胜利做出反应。之后，对其网站的访问暂时中断，据韩国媒体报道，这可能是因为有许多愤怒的用户想要批评联合会。
On Twitter, another user posted, “Somebody must explain why the flag the player Ahn was holding was Russian, not South Korean.”
在Twitter上，另一名用户写道，“安贤洙高举的是俄罗斯国旗，而不是韩国国旗，必须有人对此做出解释。”