TODAY the effort to preserve the planet’s biodiversity is often seen as a campaign to save the whales for their own sake, or to give polar bears a few more winters on the Arctic ice. But in the 1950s, when the concept was first discussed, it was understood that far more was at stake. The “conservation of variety,” as it was called during the early years of the cold war, was no less than a strategy of human survival.
今天一提到保护地球生物多样性，人们想到的往往就是为了鲸鱼而去挽救鲸鱼，或是为了让北极熊能在北极冰上多过几个冬天而进行的努力。但是在20世纪50年代，人们第一次讨论这个概念时，他们认为此事的意义远不止这一点。冷战初期所说的“保护多样性”，毫不夸张地说是事关人类生存的一个策略。
At that time, American military leaders and scientists were contemplating the possibility of total war with the Soviet Union, with not only civilians, but plants, animals and entire ecosystems as fair game. The war planners imagined a brave new world in which biological and radiological weapons would be considered side by side with crop destruction, huge fires, artificial earthquakes, tsunamis, ocean current manipulation, sea-level tinkering and even weather control.
当时，美国军队领导人和科学家正在权衡与苏联(Soviet Union)爆发一场全面战争的可能性，不只是文明，还有植物、动物乃至整个生态系统都会成为战争中可利用的工具。战争策划者设想了一个美丽新世界，除了生物和放射性武器，毁灭粮食作物、大火、人工地震、海啸、操纵洋流、改变海平线甚至是操控天气一样可以为人所用。
Numerous approaches seemed feasible then: melting polar ice by blackening it with soot, seeding clouds with chemicals to harass an enemy with rain and mud, killing life-sustaining crops with deadly cereal rust spores or radioactive contamination. Entire forests might be set ablaze by the thermal radiation of a high-altitude nuclear blast. Well-placed detonations might unleash the energy of the earth’s crust, oceans or weather systems. During the Korean War, Representative Albert Gore Sr. went so far as to urge President Harry S. Truman to contaminate an enormous strip of territory across the Korean Peninsula with radioactive waste from plutonium processing, hoping the poisonous landscape would deter Communist troops from moving south.
当时看来似乎有无数个可行的办法：用烟灰融化极地冰层，向云层播入化学物质，用大雨和泥泞给敌人制造障碍，用可致死的小麦锈病孢子或者是放射性污染物杀死可以维持生命的粮食作物。整片森林可能都会被高空核爆炸产生的热辐射点燃。炸弹在合适的位置引爆可能会释放出地壳、海洋或者是天气系统中的能量。在朝鲜战争期间，美国代表老艾伯特·戈尔(Albert Gore Sr.)甚至要求哈里·S·杜鲁门总统(President Harry S. Truman)用加工钚时产生的辐射废料在朝鲜半岛上制造一个巨大的污染区，希望有毒地貌能够阻止共产党军队南下。
By the early 1960s, NATO was calling these approaches “environmental warfare.” One of the important considerations in the calculus, not surprisingly, was self-preservation. War planning would include figuring out how to keep people alive beyond the initial devastation. The best approach, scientists concluded, was coming up with ways to protect ecosystems.
到了20世纪60年代初，北约(NATO)把这些措施称作“环境战”。毫无疑问，在复杂权衡之中的一个重要考虑便是自我保存。战争计划包括要在初步毁灭之外找到如何使人存活下来的办法。科学家总结认为，最好的办法便是找到各种保护生态系统的方式。
Today we call it biodiversity. One of its principal advocates was the Oxford ecologist Charles Elton, whose book “The Ecology of Invasions by Animals and Plants,” argued that simplifying landscapes with weedkillers, or planting single crop species over large areas made a recipe for disaster. The best defense from diseases, other species or natural catastrophes, he said, was to conserve as much biological variety as possible in the fields and hedges of the countryside to counterbalance any threat. In his book he called it the conservation of variety.
在今天，我们称之为生物多样性。这一概念的一位主要提倡者是牛津大学(Oxford)生态学家查尔斯·埃尔顿(Charles Elton)，他的书《动植物入侵生态学》(The Ecology of Invasions by Animals and Plants)认为，用除草剂，或者大面积种植单一的作物品种使地貌单一化等同于制造灾难。他认为，防御疾病、其他物种或者是自然灾害侵袭的最佳办法便是在田地和乡村的篱笆中尽可能多地保留生物多样性以抵御任何危险。他在书中称之为保护多样性。
Elton’s approach not only inspired Rachel Carson to write “Silent Spring,” about the harm done by insecticides, it also resonated among scientists in the defense establishment. Fantasizing about environmental warfare in the early 1960s, NATO scientists tried to imagine which links in ecosystems were vulnerable to manipulation. Studies had recently shown radioactive fallout infiltrating reindeer meat, a crucial part of Eskimos’ diets. It was a revelation to think that such a connection in the food chain was now targetable. But the reverse was also true, and underscored Elton’s point: the complexity of an ecosystem made any particular “link” less important, making the system less vulnerable.
埃尔顿的方法不仅启发了瑞切尔·卡森 (Rachel Carson)写出了有关杀虫剂危害的《寂静的春天》(Silent Spring)一书，还引起了国防建设领域的科学家的共鸣。北约科学家在20世纪60年代初对环境战十分着迷，他们试图想象生态系统中哪一个环节最容易被操纵。最近的研究显示，放射性物质的余波已经渗透到对爱斯基摩人饮食十分重要的驯鹿肉中。将食物链中的这种联系视作一个可攻击的目标，这本身是一个启发。但是反过来也如此，并且还强调了埃尔顿的观点：生态系统的复杂性会冲淡任何特殊“链节”的重要性，让整个系统不那么脆弱。
This was the lesson defense planners took to heart. They decided that a robust peacetime market economy provided variety, and thus security in peace and war. If nuclear war ever came, a decentralized, diversified society would be in better shape than a centrally planned one like the Soviet Union’s. The same logic applied to biological variety. That is why strategic stockpiles of Western nations during the cold war did not collect enormous stores of favorite foods but samples of the widest range of species imaginable.
这便是国防规划者应当牢记的教训。他们认为和平时期强健的市场经济会提供多样性，因此可以在和平和战争时期保证安全。一旦爆发核战争，一个权力分散、多样化的社会将会比苏联那样依赖中央计划的社会结局要好。同样的逻辑也适用于生态多样性。这也就是为什么西方国家在冷战时期进行战略储备时没有选择囤积大量喜欢的食物，而是从所有能想象得到的大范围物种中提取样本的原因。
In the face of natural disasters, such diversity seemed to be the West’s ace in the hole. The variety of agricultural products in the United States far outpaced those of the Soviet Union, and is a reason that C.I.A. analysts predicted in the 1980s that global climate change would cause more harm to Russia than to the United States.
在面临自然灾难时，这种多样性似乎是西方的杀手锏。美国农业产品的多样性远超苏联，这也是为什么中央情报局(CIA)的分析师在20世纪80年代预测全球气候变化给俄罗斯带来的危害要比美国大。
We managed to survive the cold war, but the challenges to our environmental security remain. We need to stop treating the idea of biodiversity as a philosophical preference and embrace it as a strategy of survival, just as it was for those who, more than a half-century ago, planned for a calamitous total war.
我们成功从冷战中幸存下来，但是我们在环境安全中所面临的挑战依然存在。我们不能再把生物多样性只当做一个哲学上的偏好，而应将其作为一种生存策略，就像半个多世纪前为灾难性全面战争作准备的人那样。