How fast are you aging?
你知道自己衰老的速度如何么？
Don’t look to online calculators of “biological age” for an answer. Those focus mainly on risk factors for diseases, and say little about normal aging, the slow, mysterious process that turns children to codgers.
先别忙着去偷看网上“生物年龄”计算器的答案，它们也未必可靠。因为这些计算器仅侧重于疾病的风险因素，对将呱呱坠地的婴儿变成耄耋老人的这一缓慢、神秘的正常衰老过程却语焉不详。
In fact, scientists are still hunting for biological markers of age that reliably register how fast the process is unfolding. Seemingly obvious candidates won’t do. Wrinkles, for example, often have more to do with sun exposure than aging. Markers like age-related increases in blood pressure are similarly problematic, often confounded by factors unrelated to aging.
事实上，科学家们仍在追寻年龄的生物学标志物，以期可靠地标定衰老过程推进的速度。有一些特征虽然从表面上看来很明显是衰老的表现，但它们并不符合科学家们的要求。例如，与衰老相比，皱纹与阳光曝晒之间的关联往往更为密切。其他的标志物，如年龄相关性血压升高等也存在类似的问题。它们都具有混杂性，其中经常涉及与衰老无关的因素。
But recently researchers have identified some particularly good indicators of time’s largely hidden toll on our bodies and how fast it’s increasing. Developing an “easy way to measure biological age will have a wide array of applications in prediction and prevention of age-related diseases, drug discovery and forensics,” said Dr. Kang Zhang, founding director of the Institute for Genomic Medicine at the University of California, San Diego.
但最近，研究人员发现了一些非常好的指标，它们可以指示出时间的巨轮如何悄无声息地碾过我们的身体，并可显示它行进的速度。加州大学圣迭戈分校(University of California, San Diego)基因组医学研究所(Institute for Genomic Medicine)的创始主任张康(Kang Zhang)博士认为，若我们能开发出一种“可衡量生理年龄的简单方法，它必将在预测和预防年龄相关疾病、药物研发和法医鉴证领域都大有作为”。
The quest for truly revealing biomarkers of aging could tell us a lot about our current and future health. Tracking these indexes before and after starting a new diet or exercise program, for instance, might show you whether it was actually pushing off your decline and fall. Aging-rate tests could help scientists evaluate possible anti-aging compounds in humans without prohibitively long studies.
探索可真正揭示衰老过程的生物标志物，也必将帮助我们进一步了解我们当前和未来的健康情况。例如，在开始新的饮食或锻炼计划前后跟踪这些指标，你就会对这些计划是否确实延缓了你的衰老心中有数。衰老速率测试还可以帮助科学家们评估潜在的抗衰老化合物，使他们无需再旷日持久地进行人体试验。
Experts on aging generally agree that acceptable biomarkers of aging should foretell the remaining life span of a middle-aged person more accurately than chronological age does. Further, they should offer a consistent picture of biological age, said Dr. Richard A. Miller, a gerontologist at the University of Michigan: “Do those 50-year-olds with the best retention of immune function also tend to have the least cataracts, good sense of smell, least osteoporosis, lowest blood pressure and best memory?”
衰老研究领域的专家们普遍认同，可接受的衰老生物标志物应比实足年龄(chronological age)更准确地预测中年人的剩余寿命。此外，它们还应与生理年龄所反映的人体机能相一致，密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的老年病学家理查德·A·米勒(Richard A. Miller)博士说：“在50多岁的中年人里，是不是免疫功能维持得最好的那些人也有最好的嗅觉和记忆力，患白内障和骨质疏松的可能性最小，血压也最低？”
Proposed biomarkers of aging haven’t yet convincingly cleared these hurdles, he added. But some provocatively telling ones have come to light.
米勒博士补充道，目前人们已经提出了若干候选的衰老生物标志物，但它们均尚未就这些难题给出令人信服的答案。但新出现的一些标志物已经显露出十分诱人的前景。
In a 2010 study, Dr. Miller and colleagues analyzed medical records of 4,097 women, collected over two decades beginning when they were in their 60s, to sift out 13 factors that best predicted future mortality from different causes.
在2010年的一项研究中，米勒博士及同事分析了4097名妇女的医疗记录。这些记录早在她们60多岁时就已经开始收集，至今已逾二十余年。科学家们从中筛选出了对未来不同原因死亡具有最佳预测能力的13个因素。
Oddly, contrast sensitivity — as measured by a test of the eye’s ability to pick out very lightly shaded images on white backgrounds — was among the most predictive of the 377 factors evaluated, as was the number of rapid step-ups on a low platform that the subjects could complete in 10 seconds. Taken together, the 13 factors “characterize the clinical presentation of healthy aging” in older women, the study concluded.
令人惊异的是，在所评估的377个因素中，对比敏感度（根据受试者在测试中凭肉眼在白背景上挑选出由浅淡阴影构成的图像的能力进行衡量）以及受试者可在10秒内完成的快速踏板踩踏数是预测能力最强的指标。综合而言，该研究总结道，在中老年妇女中，有13个因素“可指征健康老龄化(healthy aging)的临床表现”。
More recently, novel technologies that can detect thousands of age-associated molecular changes in cells have come to the fore in the biomarker hunt.
近日出现的一种新技术在这场生物标志物的大搜索中初露锋芒，该技术可检测出细胞中数以千计的年龄相关性分子变化。
Earlier this year Dr. Zhang and his colleagues in San Diego reported that a kind of molecular aging clock is embedded in our genomes whose speed can be measured via blood testing. The moving parts of the clock consist of chemical tags on DNA molecules that control whether genes are active in cells. The researchers found that the patterns of the tags, called epigenetic markers, predictably change with age. In a study published in January in Molecular Cell, the scientists scrutinized around 485,000 of these tags in blood cells of 656 people aged 19 to 101. Some 70,387 tags were predictive of chronological age, the scientists found.
今年早些时候，张博士及其在圣迭戈的同事报告称，在我们的基因组中内置有一个“分子衰老时钟”，可以通过血液检测来衡量它走动的速度。在这个时钟里运转计时的不是齿轮和指针，而是DNA分子上可控制细胞中基因活化与否的化学标签。研究人员发现这些标签的模式——即所谓的表观遗传标记——会以一种可预测的方式随年龄的增长而变化。在1月份发表在《分子细胞学》杂志(Molecular Cell)上的一项研究中，科学家们招募了656名年龄在19岁至101岁之间的受试者，在仔细审查了其血细胞中的约48.5万个此类标签后，他们发现其中的70387个标签能够预测实足年龄。
Collectively these tags spell out a “signature for age” that is “largely not changed by disease or ethnic background,” said Ronald Kohanski, an expert on biomarkers of aging at the National Institute on Aging. That means these markers may be less muddied by confounders than other factors tied to aging.
美国国家老龄化研究所(National Institute on Aging)的衰老生物标志物专家罗纳德·科汉斯基(Ronald Kohanski)说，将这些标签综合起来，就可以得到一个“基本不会因疾病或种族背景而改变”的“年龄标志”(signature for age)。这意味着，与其他的衰老相关因素相比，这些标志物较少受到混杂因素的干扰。
Of the markers, 71 most indicative of chronological age were selected to measure the speed at which people are growing old. That was calculated by comparing a subject’s epigenetic tags to the norm for his or her age — a 40-year-old whose pattern closely resembled the typical one for 50-year-olds, for example, would apparently be aging 25 percent faster than normal.
在这些标志物中，科学家们选择了最能指示实足年龄的71种标志物，通过将受试者的表观遗传标记与其年龄对应的典型模式相比较，就可以计算并衡量此人的衰老速度。例如，假如有一名40多岁的受试者，其表观遗传学标签与50多岁的人的典型模式非常相似，就说明他的衰老速度比正常快25%。
Already the molecular clock has yielded interesting findings. Men appear to age on average 4 percent faster than women, the scientists have found, which may largely explain why women’s life expectancy exceeds men’s by about 6 percent worldwide. And the research has shed intriguing light on cancer: The clock indicated that tumor cells have aged, on average, 40 percent more than normal cells taken from the same patients.
迄今为止，这个“分子钟”已经帮助我们获得了一些有趣的研究结果。科学家们发现，男性的衰老速度平均比女性快了4%，这从很大程度上解释了为何世界各地女性的平均预期寿命均比男性长约6%。此外，关于癌症的研究还揭示了一些耐人寻味的信息：该“时钟”显示，肿瘤细胞比从同一患者身上采集的正常细胞平均要“老”40%。
“We’re still far from having a diagnostic for biological aging,” said Trey Ideker, the chief of genetics at U.C.S.D and a co-author of the study with Dr. Zhang. “But this opens the door to an exciting new approach” to the problem.
“我们距离诊断生物学衰老这一目标还有很长的路要走，”加州大学圣迭戈分校的遗传学主任、张博士研究的共同作者特雷·伊德克(Trey Ideker)说。“但是，这为解决该问题打开了一扇新的大门”。
Researchers at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill recently implanted a firefly gene into mice, engineering animals whose cells light up as they age and become “senescent,” losing the ability to divide and renew damaged tissue. This loss is tied to aging-related ills in many species, including degenerative diseases and dwindling muscle mass.  Surprisingly, the brightness levels weren’t closely tied to longevity in the animals, suggesting that cellular senescence is just part of the larger aging puzzle. The researchers also found that noncancerous cells near nascent tumors emitted a remarkably strong glow: early-stage cancers apparently set off hot spots of accelerated cellular aging.
北卡罗来纳大学教堂山分校(University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill)的研究人员最近将萤火虫的基因植入了小鼠体内，使这些遗传工程动物的细胞在衰老过程中发光。细胞的衰老伴随着分裂及修复受损组织等能力的丧失，在许多物种中，这种功能丧失都与衰老相关疾病，包括退行性疾病和肌肉质量减少等有关。出人意料的是，细胞的亮度水平与动物的寿命并无紧密关联，这表明细胞衰老只是“衰老”这个大谜题中的一个部分。研究人员还发现，新生肿瘤附近的非癌性细胞发出了非常强烈的光芒：很显然，早期癌症引发了加速细胞衰老的热点。
That means “we can literally see the earliest molecular stages of cancer” unfolding in the mice, said Dr. Norman E. Sharpless, a professor of medicine and genetics at U.N.C. who led the study, published in January in the journal Cell.
这意味着“我们实际上可以看到小鼠癌症早期的分子进程”，这项1月份发表于《细胞》杂志(Cell)上的研究的领导者，北卡罗来纳大学教堂山分校的医学和遗传学教授诺曼·E·沙普利斯(Norman E. Sharpless)博士说。