Leonard Nimoy, the sonorous, gaunt-faced actor who won a worshipful global following as Mr. Spock, the resolutely logical human-alien first officer of the Starship Enterprise in the television and movie juggernaut “Star Trek,” died Friday at his home in the Bel Air section of Los Angeles. He was 83.
周五，演员伦纳德·尼莫伊(Leonard Nimoy)在洛杉矶贝莱尔区家中去世，享年83岁。这位嗓音洪亮、面庞瘦削的演员因在受到热捧的电视剧、电影《星际迷航》(Star Trek)中饰演意志坚定、逻辑清晰的半外星人、进取号星舰大副斯波克(Spock)而在全球拥有众多影迷。
His wife, Susan Bay Nimoy, confirmed his death, saying the cause was end-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
他的妻子苏珊·贝·尼莫伊(Susan Bay Nimoy)确认了他的死讯，称死因是晚期慢性阻塞性肺病。
Nimoy announced last year he had the disease, attributing it to years of smoking, a habit he had given up three decades earlier. He had been hospitalized earlier in the week.
去年，尼莫伊宣布他患上了这种疾病，认为多年抽烟是致病原因，虽然他已在三十年前戒烟。本周早些时候，他入院治疗。
His artistic pursuits — poetry, photography and music in addition to acting — ranged far beyond the United Federation of Planets, but it was as Mr. Spock that Nimoy became a folk hero, bringing to life one of the most indelible characters of the last half century: a cerebral, unflappable, pointy-eared Vulcan with a signature salute and blessing, “Live long and prosper” (from the Vulcan “Dif-tor heh smusma”).
他的艺术追求——除了表演，还有诗歌、摄影和音乐——远远超越星际联邦，但他是凭借饰演斯波克才成为影迷心中的英雄，他塑造了过去半个世纪中最难以磨灭的一个人物：一个头脑清醒、沉着镇定、尖耳朵的瓦肯人(Vulcan)，他的标志性举手礼和祝福是：“生生不息，繁荣昌盛”(Live long and prosper)。
Nimoy, who was teaching Method acting at his own studio when he was cast in the original “Star Trek” television series in the mid-1960s, relished playing outsiders, and he developed what he later admitted was a mystical identification with Spock, the lone alien on the starship's bridge.
20世纪60年代中期，尼莫伊被选中出演新创作的电视剧《星际迷航》，当时他正在自己的工作室教授体验派表演方法。他乐于饰演外星人，他和斯波克（星际飞船舰桥上的孤独外星人）产生了一种他后来所说的神秘的一体感。
Yet he also acknowledged ambivalence about being tethered to the character, expressing it most plainly in the titles of two autobiographies: “I Am Not Spock,” published in 1977, and “I Am Spock,” published in 1995.
不过，对被绑在这个角色上，他也表现出矛盾心理，这一点最明显地体现在他的两本自传的标题上：1977年出版的《我不是斯波克》(I Am Not Spock)和1995年出版的《我是斯波克》(I Am Spock)。
In the first, he wrote, “In Spock, I finally found the best of both worlds: to be widely accepted in public approval and yet be able to continue to play the insulated alien through the Vulcan character.”
在第一本自传中，他写道，“在斯波克身上，我最终实现了两全其美：既被公众广泛接受、称赞，又能继续饰演那个与世隔绝的瓦肯外星人。”
“Star Trek,” which had its premiere on NBC on Sept. 8, 1966, made Nimoy a star. Gene Roddenberry, the creator of the franchise, called him “the conscience of `Star Trek”' — an often earnest, sometimes campy show that employed the distant future (as well as some special effects that appear primitive by today's standards) to take on social issues of the 1960s.
1966年9月8日，《星际迷航》在NBC频道首播，它让尼莫伊成了明星。这部电视剧的主创吉尼·罗登伯里(Gene Roddenberry)称他是“《星际迷航》的良心”。这部电视剧总的来说真诚热情，偶尔有点坎普风格(campy)，借助遥远的未来（以及一些以现在的标准看很原始的特效）呈现20世纪60年代的社会问题。
His stardom would endure. Although the series was canceled after three seasons because of low ratings, a cultlike following — the conference-holding, costume-wearing Trekkies, or Trekkers (the designation Nimoy preferred) — coalesced soon after “Star Trek” went into syndication.
他的明星地位持续了很长时间。虽然由于收视率低，《星际迷航》在三季之后就停拍了，但它后来在多个频道播出后，很快受到疯狂追捧，粉丝们举办大会，穿着剧中的服装。
The fans' devotion only deepened when “Star Trek” was spun off into an animated show, various new series and an uneven parade of movies starring much of the original television cast, including — besides Nimoy — William Shatner (as Captain Kirk), DeForest Kelley (Dr. McCoy), George Takei (the helmsman, Sulu), James Doohan (the chief engineer, Scott), Nichelle Nichols (the chief communications officer, Uhura) and Walter Koenig (the navigator, Chekov).
后来粉丝们的热情更加高涨，因为《星际迷航》衍生出一部动画片、各种新电视剧和多部良莠不齐的电影，主演大多还是原剧中的演员——除了尼莫伊，还有威廉姆·沙特纳（William Shatner，饰演柯克舰长[Captain Kirk]）、德福雷斯特·凯利（DeForest Kelley，饰演麦科伊医生[Dr. McCoy]）、乔治·武井（George Takei，饰演舵手苏鲁[Sulu]）、詹姆斯·杜汉（James Doohan，饰演轮机长斯科特[Scott]）、尼歇尔·尼科尔斯（Nichelle Nichols，饰演首席通讯官乌胡拉[Uhura]）和沃尔特·凯尼格（Walter Koenig，饰演领航员切科夫[Chekov]）。
When the director J.J. Abrams revived the “Star Trek” film franchise in 2009, with an all-new cast, including Zachary Quinto as Spock, he included a cameo part for Nimoy, as an older version of the same character. Nimoy also appeared in the 2013 follow-up, “Star Trek Into Darkness.”
2009年，导演J·J·艾布拉姆斯(J.J. Abrams)续拍《星际迷航》系列影片，全面启用新演员，由扎克瑞·昆图(Zachary Quinto)饰演斯波克，不过他给尼莫伊安排了一个配角，饰演这个人物的老年版。尼莫伊还在2013年的续集《星际迷航：驶入黑暗》(Star Trek Into Darkness)中亮相。
His zeal to entertain and enlighten reached beyond “Star Trek” and crossed genres. He had a starring role in the dramatic television series “Mission: Impossible” and frequently performed onstage, notably as Tevye in “Fiddler on the Roof.” His poetry was voluminous, and he published books of his photography.
他对于娱乐和教化的热情不止于《星际迷航》，而是跨越多个领域。他在激动人心的电视剧《虎胆妙算》(Mission: Impossible，电视剧版《碟中谍》)中饰演了一个引人注目的角色，他还经常登上戏剧舞台，其中最出名的是在《屋顶上的小提琴手》(Fiddler on the Roof)中饰演特夫耶(Tevye)。他还出版了多本诗集和几本摄影集。
He also directed movies, including two from the “Star Trek” franchise, and television shows. And he made records, singing pop songs as well as original songs about “Star Trek,” and gave spoken-word performances — to the delight of his fans and the bewilderment of critics.
他还执导了几部电影——包括《星际迷航》系列的其中两部——和电视剧。他录过唱片，演唱流行歌曲和《星际迷航》中的原创歌曲，他还举办朗诵会，这让影迷们很高兴，让批评家们很困惑。
Born in Boston on March 26, 1931, Leonard Simon Nimoy was the second son of Max and Dora Nimoy, Ukrainian immigrants and Orthodox Jews. His father worked as a barber.
伦纳德·西蒙·尼莫伊(Leonard Simon Nimoy)1931年3月26日出生于波士顿，是家中的第二个儿子。父母是马克斯和多拉·尼莫伊(Max and Dora Nimoy)，他们是乌克兰移民，是正统派犹太教徒。他父亲是个理发师。
From the age of 8, Leonard acted in local productions, winning parts at a community college, where he performed through his high school years. In 1949, after taking a summer course at Boston College, he traveled to Hollywood, though it wasn't until 1951 that he landed small parts in two movies, “Queen for a Day” and “Rhubarb.”
从八岁起，伦纳德在一个社区大学获得了一些表演角色，在当地排演的剧目中演出，一直持续到高中毕业。1949年，他在波士顿学院上了一个暑期课程后，去了好莱坞，不过直到1951年他才在两部电影中获得小角色——《一天的皇后》(Queen for a Day)和《激烈争论》(Rhubarb)。
He continued to be cast in little-known movies, although he did presciently play an alien invader in a cult serial called “Zombies of the Stratosphere,” and in 1961 he had a minor role on an episode of “The Twilight Zone.” His first starring movie role came in 1952 with “Kid Monk Baroni,” in which he played a disfigured Italian street-gang leader who becomes a boxer.
他后来又演了一些鲜为人知的电影，不过他确实很有先见之明地在一部受小众追捧的电视剧《外太空僵尸》(Zombies of the Stratosphere)中饰演一名外星入侵者，1961年他又在《迷离时空》(The Twilight Zone)的其中一集里饰演一个小角色。他的第一个引人注目的电影角色是1952年在《少年巴罗尼》(Kid Monk Baroni)中饰演一名毁容了的意大利街头黑帮头目，此人后来成了拳击手。
Nimoy directed the movies “Star Trek III: The Search for Spock” (1984) and “Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home” (1986), which he helped write. In 1991, the same year that he resurrected Spock on two episodes of “Star Trek: The Next Generation,” Nimoy was also the executive producer and a writer of the movie “Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country.”
尼莫伊导演了电影《星际迷航3：石破天惊》(Star Trek III: The Search for Spock, 1984)和《星际迷航4：抢救未来》(Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home, 1986)，他也参与了这两部电影的编写。1991年，他在电视剧《星际迷航：下一代》(Star Trek: The Next Generation)的其中两集里饰演斯波克。同一年，他还担任电影《星际迷航6：未来之城》(Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country)的执行制片人和编剧。
He then directed the hugely successful comedy “Three Men and a Baby” (1987), a far cry from his science-fiction work, and appeared in made-for-television movies. He received an Emmy nomination for the 1982 movie “A Woman Called Golda,” in which he portrayed the husband of Golda Meir, the prime minister of Israel, who was played by Ingrid Bergman. It was the fourth Emmy nomination of his career — the other three were for his “Star Trek” work — although he never won.
然后，他执导了大获成功的喜剧片《三个奶爸一个娃》(Three Men and a Baby, 1987)，这部影片与他的科幻作品大相径庭。他还出演了一些电视电影。1982年，他凭借《一个叫戈尔达的女人》(A Woman Called Golda)获得了艾美奖提名，他在其中饰演以色列总理戈尔达·梅厄(Golda Meir)的丈夫，戈尔达由英格丽·褒曼(Ingrid Bergman)饰演。这是他第四次获得艾美奖提名——前三次都是凭借《星际迷航》系列——不过他从未获得该奖。
Nimoy's marriage to actress Sandi Zober ended in divorce. Besides his wife, he is survived by his children, Adam and Julie Nimoy; a stepson, Aaron Bay Schuck; six grandchildren and one great-grandchild; and an older brother, Melvin.
尼莫伊与女演员桑迪·佐贝尔(Sandi Zober)的婚姻以离婚告终。除了妻子，他在世的亲人还有孩子亚当和朱莉·尼莫伊(Adam and Julie Nimoy)、继子亚伦·贝·舒克(Aaron Bay Schuck)、六个孙子辈和一个曾孙辈，以及哥哥梅尔文(Melvin)。
In later years, he rediscovered his Jewish heritage, and in 1991 he produced and starred in “Never Forget,” a television movie based on the story of a Holocaust survivor who sued a neo-Nazi organization of Holocaust deniers.
晚年，他重新找回自己的犹太人传统。1991年，他制作并主演电视电影《永不忘记》(Never Forget)，该片是根据一个犹太大屠杀幸存者的故事创作的，这名幸存者起诉了一个否认大屠杀的新纳粹组织。
In 2002, having illustrated his books of poetry with his photographs, Nimoy published “Shekhina,” a book devoted to photography with a Jewish theme, that of the feminine aspect of God. His black-and-white photographs of nude and seminude women struck some Orthodox Jewish leaders as heretical, but Nimoy asserted that his work was consistent with the teaching of the kabbalah.
2002年，在给自己的诗集配上自己拍摄的照片之后，尼莫伊出版了《栖息》(Shekhina)，这本摄影集有一个犹太主题——上帝的女性一面。他拍摄的黑白裸体或半裸女人照片被一些正统派犹太领袖斥为离经叛道，但是尼莫伊声称，自己的作品符合喀巴拉教(kabbalah)的教义。
His religious upbringing also influenced the characterization of Spock. The character's split-fingered salute, he often explained, had been his idea: He based it on the kohanic blessing, a manual approximation of the Hebrew letter shin, which is the first letter in Shaddai, one of the Hebrew names for God.
尼莫伊的宗教背景也影响了斯波克的人物塑造。他常说，斯波克手指分开的举手礼是他想出来的：他是根据犹太大祭司的祝福创作的，这个手势是在模仿希伯来语字母ש，它是Shaddai的第一个字母，Shaddai是希伯来语中对上帝的一个称呼。
“To this day, I sense Vulcan speech patterns, Vulcan social attitudes and even Vulcan patterns of logic and emotional suppression in my behavior,” Nimoy wrote years after the original series ended.
“直至今日，我还能在自己的行为中感受到瓦肯人的语言模式、社会态度，甚至逻辑模式和情感压抑，”在原版系列结束多年后，尼莫伊写道。