China’s decision to allow more families to have a second child is an effort to confront a problem that is facing much of Europe, too — aging populations and not enough babies. But reversing a demographic slide involves a complicated set of incentives that have more to do with social mores than with government policies, experts say.
中国全面开放“二孩”政策，是为了解决人口老龄化、婴儿出生率不足的问题，欧洲很多地方也面临着同样的问题。但是扭转人口趋势涉及一系列复杂的激励因素，专家们说，它们与社会习俗而不是政府政策的关系更大。
Studies indicate that countries with healthy demographic trends are not those that promote birth, but are those with higher levels of gender equality, of trust within society and of immigration.
研究表明，人口趋势健康的国家并不是那些提倡生育的国家，而是那些两性更加平等，社会互信度更高，移民更多的国家。
Examples of countries that recover from low fertility rates are rare, scholars and experts say. Immigration can play a positive role — not because immigrants have many more children than natives, but because they tend to be of childbearing age and have their children in their new countries.
学者和专家说，成功逆转低出生率的例子并不多见。移民可以起到积极的作用——这不是因为移民比当地人生的孩子多，而是因为他们往往处在生育年龄，且倾向于在新国家生孩子。
Germany, for example, has a low fertility rate of about 1.4 or 1.5 children born per woman, well below the replacement rate of 2.1. The problem has been especially acute in the former East Germany, similar to the situation in other post-Communist nations, leading to some dire predictions of a shrinking German population.
比如德国的生育率较低，大约每名女性生育1.4或1.5个孩子，远低于2.1的人口替代率。这个问题在前东德尤其严重，其他前共产主义国家也有类似情况，因此一些人做出可怕的预言，说德国人口将会萎缩。
But Chancellor Angela Merkel’s decision to take in a large number of migrants and refugees of childbearing age is almost certain to have a positive effect on the birthrate.
不过，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)决定引入大量育龄阶段的移民和难民，此举几乎肯定会对出生率产生积极的影响。
In the 1960s and ’70s, birthrates in many European countries were low. In later decades, birthrates in many of them, as in Germany and Austria, remained low, “but the Nordic countries and France reversed,” said Gunnar Andersson, a professor of demography at Stockholm University.
在20世纪60、70年代，欧洲很多国家的出生率都很低。在之后的几十年里，很多国家的出生率维持在低水平，比如德国和奥地利，“但北欧国家和法国出现了逆转，”斯德哥尔摩大学(Stockholm University)的人口学教授贡纳尔·安德森(Gunnar Andersson)说。
Partly that was because of social policies and attitudes in those countries, promoting gender equality and being more friendly to women in the workplace, including leaves and day care. But the main explanation of the change, demographers said, was that because women were working and had more opportunities, they were having children later than usual, not that they were having a lot more children.
部分原因是这些国家的社会政策和态度提倡性别平等，在职场上对女性更加友好，提供假期和日托。但是人口学家说，变化的主要原因是因为女性进入职场，有了更多的机会，于是较往常推迟了生育时间，而不是她们生了远远更多的孩子。
That is the difference between “cohort fertility” — the fertility of all women of the same age over their lifetimes — and “period fertility,” measured year to year, said David Coleman, emeritus professor of demography at Oxford University.
这就是“世代生育率”(cohort fertility)和“年代生育率”(period fertility)的区别，牛津大学的人口学荣休教授戴维·科尔曼(David Coleman)说。前者指同年龄的所有女性在一生中的生育率，后者是指每年的生育率。
“In Western Europe since the late 1960s and 1970s, there has been a major trend toward postponement of fertility going hand-in-hand with the emancipation of women in education and the workplace,” Mr. Coleman said. “So it was natural to delay childbearing. But inevitably, when the birthrate went down, we were misled into thinking that it was a permanent state of affairs.”
“自20世纪60、70年代以来，西欧的一个重大趋势就是推迟生育时间，这是伴随着女性在教育和职场的潜力得到解放而发生的，”科尔曼说。“所以，推迟生育是很自然的事情。但不可避免的是，当出生率出现下降时，我们就误以为这会是一种永久状态。” As women grew older and decided that if they wanted children they had better get to it, he said, “the birthrate of those in their 30s and 40s has been going up slowly but gradually.”
他说，一些女性随着年龄增长，觉得如果还想要孩子，就最好行动起来，于是“30岁、40多岁的女性生育率出现了缓慢的逐步增长。”
In Sweden, Mr. Andersson said, period fertility went up and down, but cohort fertility remained close to two children per woman. “Swedish women have been having an average of two children for a century,” he said.
安德森说，在瑞典，年代生育上升之后又出现了下降，但世代生育率仍接近每名女性生育两个孩子。“一个世纪以来，瑞典女性一直都是平均生育两个孩子，”他说。
War and economic change matter, too, said Stuart Gietel-Basten, associate professor of social policy at Oxford. Women tend to postpone having children in chaotic periods, during war or deep recessions, he said, then catch up later.
牛津大学研究社会政策的副教授斯图尔特·吉特尔-巴斯滕(Stuart Gietel-Basten)表示，战争和经济变革也有影响。他说，在动荡、战争或经济严重衰退期间，女性倾向于推迟生孩子，生育率会在之后赶上来。
Social policy can also help but is not a complete answer, said Francesco Billari, a professor of sociology and demography at Oxford.
牛津大学社会学、人口学教授弗兰塞斯科·比拉里(Francesco Billari)称，社会政策也会起到帮助，但并不是全部的答案。
“A basic element of fertility rebound is a society with increasing gender equality,” he said. “When women are in the labor market and social policy helps them and men do more child care in the household, fertility bounces up. But social policy has to be pushed by a society that is ready for it or demands it from politicians.”
“生育率回升的一个基本因素是，社会中的性别平等情况日渐改善，”他说。“女性能够进入劳动力市场、社会政策对她们有利、男性在家中更多地照顾孩子的时候，生育率就会上升。但社会需要首先为这些政策做好准备，并推动这些政策，或者向政治人物要求这些政策。”
Mr. Billari cited Italy, where the population has continued growing modestly despite traditional worries about abortion, divorce and decline. But while historically richer northern Italy once had fewer children and poorer southern Italy had large families, “now that has completely reversed,” he said.
比拉里举了意大利的例子。尽管传统上一直存在对堕胎、离婚和经济衰退的担忧，但意大利人口在持续地适度增长。不过他说，在历来较为富裕的意大利北部，家里的孩子要少一些，而较为贫穷的南部家庭规模更大，但“现在完全相反”。
Women in the richer north, he said, with more gender equality and job opportunity, are having more children than before. At the same time, women in the poorer south are having fewer children in a society with high unemployment and where there remains a “more traditional gender division of labor and lack of female participation in the work force — it’s more like China,” he said.
他表示，在更富裕的北部，女性享有更多的性别平等和工作机会，生育的孩子也比以前多了。与此同时，在相对穷一些的南部，女性生育的孩子减少，南部社会失业率居高不下，依然存在“更传统的性别分工，女性参加工作的现象较为缺乏，更像中国”。
The lack of gender equality, small numbers of working women and few social policies to support them help explain why Russia, Central Europe and East Asia generally have not been able to bounce back from low fertility levels, Mr. Billari said.
比拉里说，缺乏性别平等、职业女性人数较少、鲜有支持女性的社会政策，有助于解释俄罗斯、中欧和东亚的生育率为何普遍无法从低位回升。
In general, “natalist policies” — government diktats to have more children, or appeals to patriotism, or even cash subsidies for having larger families — tend not to increase fertility very much, he said.
他表示，总的来说，“鼓励生育的政策”，如政府下令多生孩子，或是搬出爱国主义，甚至为多生孩子的家庭发放现金补贴，往往不会大幅提升生育率。
One sharp and brutal counterexample was in 1966, when the former Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu suddenly banned all abortions. The total fertility rate jumped from 1.9 in 1965 to 3.66 in 1966. But later it fell again.
一个明显且残忍的反例发生在1966年。当时，前罗马尼亚独裁者尼古拉·齐奥塞斯库(Nicolae Ceausescu)突然下令禁止一切堕胎。总生育率从1965年的1.9提高到了1966年的3.66，但后来再次下降。
Turkey under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has also pushed natalist policies with some success through welfare payments to the poor, keeping fertility around 2.1, considered the replacement rate necessary to keep a stable population.
在总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)统治时期，土耳其也通过向穷人发放福利来推行鼓励生育的政策，并取得了一定的成功，将生育率保持在了2.1左右。土耳其官方认为，将生育率维持在人口替代率，对于保持人口稳定是必要的。 Immigration can also help stabilize or restore fertility rates, as in the United States and in Britain, which “has no population policy at all, though the fertility rate is quite high,” Mr. Gietel-Basten said.
吉特尔-巴斯滕说，移民也能帮助稳定或恢复生育率，就像美国和英国一样，那里“根本没有人口政策，但生育率却比较高”。
China will be watched carefully, but those experts said they believed that the new policy of allowing two children would have only limited effect. Partly, they said, that is because generations of Chinese have grown up with the experience of small families and partly because China’s social and housing structure does not favor large families.
中国会受到密切关注，但那些专家表示，他们认为新推出的二孩政策效果有限。他们说，部分原因是中国好几代人自己的经历都是在小家庭长大，还有部分原因是中国的社会和住房结构，不利于大家庭。
“We’ve seen reforms in the past where some couples are eligible to have a second child and often they don’t,” Mr. Gietel-Basten said. “There will be a small baby boom, especially in poorer, more rural areas like Sichuan, where the policies have been strict. But even there it’s about aspirations. People want to move to town and having kids becomes a brake on those aspirations.”
“我们看到了一些改革，一些夫妇有资格生二胎，而其中很多选择不生，”吉特尔-巴斯滕说。“将会出现小的生育高峰，特别是在四川等比较贫穷的农村地区，那里的政策一直很严格。但即便在那里，这也是一个愿望问题。人们想向城镇迁移，但养孩子成为一种抑制该愿望的因素。”
China’s urban housing is crowded and small, a further disincentive for more children, Mr. Coleman said. “For a while, not much will happen in China,” he said. “They’re locked into population decline.”
中国城市住房非常拥挤狭小，科尔曼说这是进一步抑制养育更多孩子的因素。“在一段时间内，中国不会出现很多新生儿，”他说。“他们陷入了人口下降的困境。”
The one-child policy, with other factors, radically brought down the fertility rate, he said. Given the unreliability of official Chinese figures, he said, no one really knows the fertility rate now. Mr. Gietel-Basten said “it could vary from 1.4 to 1.8, but most people think it’s between 1.5 and 1.6, which is well below replacement rate and has been so for some time.”
他表示，一胎政策及其他因素大幅降低了生育率。鉴于中国官方数据的可信度较低，实际上没人知道目前的生育率。吉特尔-巴斯滕表示，“生育率可能在1.4到1.8之间，但大多数人认为在1.5到1.6之间，低于人口置换率，而且这种情况已经持续一段时间了。”
That creates “negative demographic momentum,” he explained, since for some time each generation is smaller, so there will be fewer babies. But it may be self-correcting over the next 10 to 15 years, he said.
他解释称，这造成了“人口负增长惯性”，因为在一段时间内，每一代人的人口数量都有所减少，出生的婴儿也会较少。但他表示，未来10到15年可能会进行自动调整。
But in China, as in most of Asia, fertility will not be aided by immigration, since there is little immigration in East Asia.
但就像亚洲大部分地区一样，中国不能指望移民来协助解决生育率问题，因为东亚地区的移民很少。
Mr. Billari said he was not so confident. “We may actually see further fertility decline in China after a small blip upward,” he said. With the decline in fertility, there was a window of opportunity for development, with fewer young and not so many old, he said.
比拉里说他不是很有信心。“我们实际上可能看到中国生育率在出现小幅上升后会进一步下降，”他说。随着生育率的下降，在年轻人减少，老年人还没有太多之前，会有一个发展的窗口期。