JINDO, South Korea — It was a trip that the second-year students at Danwon High School had been eagerly awaiting, a last chance for fun before a grueling year of studying for the national university entrance exam. Soon after their ship left the port of Incheon on Tuesday night, the students celebrated by launching fireworks from the deck.
韩国珍岛——这本是檀园高中(Danwon High School)二年级学生热切期待的一次旅行，是他们进入为全国高考而刻苦学习的一年之前，最后的一次娱乐机会。在他们的船周二晚驶离仁川港后不久，学生们为庆祝此行在甲板上点放了烟火。
About 12 hours later, everything went terribly wrong. Their ferry, the 6,825-ton Sewol, bound for the resort island of Jeju, tilted to the left for as-yet-unexplained reasons shortly before 9 a.m. Wednesday and began sinking in the blue-gray waters off southwest South Korea.
大约12个小时后，整个旅程天翻地覆。他们乘坐的“岁月号”渡轮正在驶向旅游胜地济州岛，周三上午将近9点，这艘排水量为6825吨的轮船由于迄今未解的原因向左倾斜，并开始在韩国西南海域灰蓝色的海水中下沉。
There were 325 students among the 475 people believed aboard the ship, and more than 24 hours later, with bad weather having largely stymied a second day of search operations, 285 passengers were still missing and feared dead.
船上据信有475人，其中325人是学生。渡轮失事已经超过24个小时，恶劣天气在很大程度上阻碍了第二天的营救行动，仍有285名乘客失踪，恐怕已经遇难。
As of Thursday evening, the confirmed death toll was at 11, and just 179 passengers had been rescued. Rain, strong currents and poor visibility underwater hampered the efforts of divers from South Korea’s Navy and Coast Guard to search the sunken ship.
截至周四晚，已确定有11人死亡，只有179名乘客获救。大雨、狂暴的水流以及水下的低能见度阻碍了韩国海军和海岸警卫队潜水员搜索沉船的工作。
It is unclear why the Sewol leaned so far to port before sinking, and why so many aboard the ship were unable to escape, even though it took nearly two and a half hours for the vessel to capsize and all but disappear underwater. Interviews on Thursday with survivors, relatives, crew members and investigators offered a vivid picture of how the trip turned into a catastrophe, and possibly into South Korea’s worst disaster in decades.
尚不清楚“岁月号”下沉之前为何向左剧烈倾斜，也不清楚为什么许多乘客未能逃出船舱，虽然船只倾覆直到最后沉入水中、只剩下一小部分露出水面的过程，用了近二个半小时。从周四与幸存者、亲属、船员以及调查人员的访谈，得到了这次旅行如何变成一场灾难的生动描述。这次事故可能成为韩国几十年来最大的一场灾难。
“The government floundered, unable even to count the number of those missing correctly,” the country’s leading conservative daily, Chosun Ilbo, which has been mostly supportive of the government of President Park Geun-hye, said in an editorial on Thursday. “Above all, the people must have felt deeply that South Korea is a country that doesn’t value human lives.”
“政府乱作一团，甚至无法正确统计失踪人数，”韩国主要的保守派报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)在周四的一篇社论中这样写道，尽管该报大部分时候都支持朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统的政府。“最糟糕的是，人民一定会深深地感到，韩国是一个不重视人命的国家。”
It cited “unspeakable mistakes and errors” in the ferry’s operation and in the rescue efforts.
社论指出，渡轮操作和营救行动存在“难以言说的失误和差错”。
“Bring my child back alive!” some parents yelled on Thursday, when Ms. Park visited an indoor gymnasium on Jindo Island, 11 miles from the site of the sinking, that local officials had turned into a shelter for grieving families. Ms. Park promised “all available resources” for the rescue, and a “thorough investigation and stern punishment for those responsible.”
当朴槿惠于周四来到珍岛的一个体育馆时，一些家长大喊，“把我的孩子活着带回来！”该体育馆距船下沉之处约17公里，当地官员已把其用作安置悲伤家属的场所。朴槿惠承诺将“所有可用的资源”投入营救，并承诺“彻底调查并严厉惩处事故责任人”。
According to survivors, the students were having a morning break after breakfast, roaming through the floors in small groups and taking pictures on the deck, when the ship began tipping over.
据幸存者说，当船开始倾斜时，学生们刚吃完早饭，正在自由活动，他们三五成群地在船的各层漫步，有的在甲板上拍照。
When the situation became critical, survivors said, many students were still on the third floor, where the cafeteria and game rooms were.
幸存者说，情况变得紧急之后，许多学生仍在船的三层，也就是自助餐厅和游戏室所在的那层。
“I don’t remember that there was any safety instruction before we boarded the ship,” said Kim Su-bin, 16, a Danwon student who climbed out of the sinking ship and jumping into the water. “Life jackets were on the fourth floor where the sleeping cabins were, but those who were on the third floor at the time had no life jackets.”
“按我的记忆，我们登船之前没受过任何安全指导，”金秀彬(Kim Su-bin，音译)说，这位16岁的檀园高中学生在船下沉时爬了出来，之后跳入水中。“救生衣都在四层，那层是卧舱，但那些下沉时呆在三层的人没有救生衣。”
Han Hee-min, another 16-year-old student, said all had gone smoothly until he felt the ship “turning too sharply” around 9 a.m. Wednesday.
年纪也是16岁的学生韩熙敏（Han Hee-min，音译）说，直到他周三9点左右感到船身“突然倾斜”之前，一切都很顺利。
Investigators who questioned the ferry’s captain, Lee Jun-seok, 69, on Thursday said the vessel had made a sharp turn to the left around the time it began to tilt. The Sewol had been sailing slightly off its usual course, they said, and Mr. Lee had apparently tried to steer it back. But it was unclear why he had tried such a turn in waters known for their strong currents, or why the turn had caused the ship to lean to one side.
调察人员询问了渡轮的船长、69岁的李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译），并于周四表示，大概是在开始倾斜的时候，渡轮曾向左急转弯。他们说，“岁月号”当时稍微偏离了正常的航道，李俊石显然在试图将船调回原来的航道。但是，尚不清楚他为什么在众所周知的急流水域尝试这样的急转弯，也不清楚转弯为何导致船身向一边倾斜。
The captain, in a brief appearance before reporters Thursday, provided little clarity. “I can’t raise my face before the passengers and family members of the missing,” he said. Officials have said Mr. Lee, who has been criticized for being among the first to leave the ship, could face criminal charges.
船长在周四曾与记者短暂见面，其间未能提供多少情况。他说，“我没脸见乘客和失踪者的家属。”官员说，李俊石可能会面对刑事指控，人们指责他最早一批撤离渡轮。
An investigator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the government had not yet reached its final conclusions, said it was possible that the ferry’s cargo — which included 150 trucks and cars and more than 1,100 tons of cargo in shipping containers — had not been tied down properly.
一位调查员说，有一种可能是渡轮上的货物没有绑牢，这艘船上载有180辆汽车和卡车，还有装着1100多吨货物的海运集装箱。由于政府的调查尚无最后结论，这位调查员要求不具名。
“That might have loosened them and caused them to slide to one side when the ship made its turn, and helped cause the ship to tilt out of control,” the investigator said.
该调查员说，“这一来，货物可能在船转弯时松开了，进而滑向一边，致使船身倾斜，失去控制。”
Inside the ship, chaos unfolded, survivors said, as a wall and the floor seemed to exchange positions. Bottles and dishes overturned. The ship’s twisting stairways suddenly became almost impossible to negotiate. Passengers were tossed to one side as if they were riding a slide. Trays and soup bowls overturned, said Song Ji-cheol, a college student who worked part time at the cafeteria.
幸存者说，随着船的舱壁和地板似乎交换了位置，船舱里一片混乱。瓶子和餐具纷纷翻倒，船舱的旋梯突然变得几乎无法通行。乘客从船的一边被甩向另一边，好像他们在乘坐滑梯似的。在渡轮餐厅打工的大学生宋志哲（Song Ji-cheol，音译）说，托盘和汤碗都打翻了。
“The gas burst and all of a sudden, we were submerged,” he said. “I tried to hold on to the tables but they were moving around, too.”
他说，“煤气炉爆灭，突然之间，我们沉到了水下。我试图抓住桌子，但桌子也在移动。”
At some point, some survivors said, the lights went out.
一些幸存者说，过了一会儿，灯全都熄灭了。
“When the ship began tilting, there was a thudding noise and I thought it was the noise made by students bumping into the walls,” one passenger, Han Hee-min, said Thursday in a hospital in Ansan, the city south of Seoul where Danwon High School is situated. “I had a life jacket so I floated. Some friends grabbed my leg and I don’t know what happened to them.”
韩熙敏周四在安山市一家医院说，“船身开始倾斜时，我听到砰的一声，以为那是学生撞上了舱壁。我穿着救生衣，所以浮了上去。有些朋友抓住我的腿，但我不知道他们怎么样了。”安山在首尔南边，是檀园高中的所在地。
Grainy video footage made with a smartphone, and sent to a relative while the ship was sinking, showed frightened passengers huddled in the corner of a room as a voice on the ship’s intercom urged people to “stay inside and wait because the cabins are safer.” Another student, Gwon Ji-hyuck, 16, said he heard that broadcast. Sixtyto 70 students clogged a narrow corridor while their teacher shouted at them to remain calm, he said.
有人用智能手机录下低分辨率的视频，在船下沉时发给了亲属。这段视频显示，受惊的乘客蜷缩在一个房间的角落里，一个声音在船上的内部广播中呼吁大家“留在舱内等待，因为舱内更安全。”另一名学生、16岁的权姬赫（Gwon Ji-hyuck，音译）说，他听到了那个广播。他说，有60到70名学生挤在一条狭窄的走廊里，老师大声地叫大家保持冷静。
“My teacher distributed life jackets to the last minute and led us calmly,” said Han Sang-hyuk, 16, in tears, referring to Nam Yun-cheol, one of the two teachers found dead.
“我的老师把救生衣发给大家，冷静地指引我们，直到最后一刻。”16岁的学生韩相史（Han Sang-hyuk，音译）哭着说，他指的是已确认死亡的两位老师之一南允哲（Nam Yun-cheol，音译）。
Han Sang-hyuk, a student, blamed the ship crew’s instruction for the high number of missing people, saying that those who stayed in their rooms or were caught in small alleyways between corridors would not have been able to escape. But Kim Su-bin, the Danwon student who survived by climbing out of the ship, thanked Park Ji-young, a member of the crew who was found dead on Wednesday, for calming the students and staying behind without a life jacket after helping students get out.
韩相史把失踪人数之多归咎于渡轮船员的引导不力，他说，呆在舱里和挤在狭窄走道里的乘客不大可能逃出来。但是，从船舱里爬出来得以逃生的檀园高中学生金秀彬感谢了朴智英(Park Ji-young)，朴智英是周三发现的遇难船员，她当时没穿救生衣，但还是帮助学生逃生，让学生保持冷静，并且留在了后面。
The ship’s communications officer, Kang Hae-seong, 32, said he and Ms. Park had to make a quick decision. They thought that if passengers fled in a panicked rush, it could make matters worse, he said. Mr. Kang said the ship’s crew had studied the manual on fire drills but never had an evacuation simulation. Few of the ship’s 60 life rafts were used.
渡轮上负责通讯的官员、32岁的姜海成（Kang Hae-seong，音译）说，他和朴智英必须快速做出决定。他说，当时他们觉得，如果乘客在恐慌之中匆忙逃跑，事情可能会更糟。姜海成说，船员们学习过失火演习手册，但从未做过模拟疏散。船上的60只救生艇基本没有用上。
“I repeatedly told people to calm themselves and stay where they were for an hour,” he said from his hospital bed on Jindo. “I didn’t have time to look at the manual for evacuation.”
姜海成在珍岛一家医院的病床上说，“我多次告诉人们保持冷静，原地等待一个小时。我来不及查阅疏散手册。”
Shin Seong-hee, a Danwon student, was among those who heeded the advice. In a text message she sent to her father, she said she had been told by the ship’s crew that “it was more dangerous to move.” Her father texted back: “I know the rescuers are coming but why don’t you try to come outside?”
檀园高中学生申成熙（Shin Seong-hee，音译）是遵守指令的人之一。她在发给父亲的短信中说，船员告诉她“在船上走动会更危险”。父亲回短信说：“我知道救援人员已赶往现场，但是，为什么你不想法从船舱出来？”
“I can’t because the ship is tilting too much,” she replied in a text that was shown to a reporter by her sister, Shin Seong-ah, on Thursday. Shin Seong-hee has not been heard from since.
“不行，因为船身倾斜得太厉害了，”她用短信回复说。周四，她的姐姐申成雅（Shin Seong-ah，音译）把那条短信拿给记者看。那条短信以后，再也没有听到申成熙的消息。
Another student, Shin Yong-jin, texted to his mother: “Mom, I say this now because I may never be able to say it: I love you.” Mr. Shin made it out of the ship.
名叫申雍鎭（Shin Yong-jin，音译）的学生给母亲发短信说，“妈妈，我怕以后没机会说了，所以现在告诉你：我爱你！”申雍鎭最终逃出了船舱。
The indoor gymnasium on Jindo Island was a caldron of emotion on Thursday as desperate parents waited to hear news of their children.
周四，珍岛体育馆里的人们情绪激动，家长们焦急地等待着自己孩子的消息。
Hundreds of mothers, fathers and relatives sat dejectedly on the floor, some wrapped in blankets. Some shrieked and collapsed, and were tended to by medical workers. The police were investigating fabricated lists of survivors circulating online that gave parents false hopes.
数以百计的父母和亲属沮丧地坐在地板上，有的人裹着毯子。有人大声喊叫，然后晕厥倒地，医护人员在照顾他们。警方正在调查网上流传的一份编造出来的幸存者名单，这份名单给家长带来虚假的希望。
At one point, a police officer came to apologize for delays in a plan to pump oxygen into the sunken ship, in case some passengers were still alive. “You liar!” a father shouted at the police officer, before jumping onto the podium and punching and kicking him.
其间来了一位警察，他为推迟给沉海的轮船泵入氧气的行动表示道歉，泵氧气是为了帮助万一幸存的乘客。“你撒谎！”一位父亲对这位警察大叫，然后跳上讲台，开始对他拳打脚踢。
“My child is alive in there!” the man shouted repeatedly until he was hauled away by other parents.
“我的孩子还活在那里！”他不断喊道，直到被其他家长拖走。