HAVANA — A magnetic energy courses between Claudia Rodriguez and Alejandro Padilla, binding the couple in clichés of intimacy: the tendency to finish each other's sentences; hands that naturally gravitate toward one another; a shared laughter that forms the soundtrack of their romance.
哈瓦那——克劳迪娅·罗德里格斯(Claudia Rodriguez)和亚历杭德罗·帕迪利亚(Alejandro Padilla)之间有亲密的磁场。他们表达亲密的方式也很老套：想说出对方的下半句话、手自然地伸向对方，以及一起开怀大笑。这笑声仿佛成了他们爱情的配乐。
What their love will not bear, for the moment, is a family. Though they plan to marry and have children, they will wait — until they are no longer sharing a small apartment with a half-dozen others, or perhaps until obtaining diapers and formula is no longer a gamble.
但他们暂时不会因为爱而组建家庭。尽管有结婚和生孩子的计划，但他们要等——等到不再和其他六个人合住一套小公寓的时候，甚至要到买尿片和婴儿配方奶粉不再是一场赌博的时候。
In short, they will be waiting a long time.
简而言之，他们还要等很长一段时间。
“You have to take into consideration the world we live in,” said Rodriguez, 24, who says she has had two abortions to avoid having children too soon. Clutching Padilla's hand, she said, “It would be so much harder with a child.”
“不得不把我们生活的这个世界考虑进去，”24岁的罗德里格斯说。她表示为了避免太早要孩子，自己已经两次堕胎。她紧紧抓着帕迪利亚的手说，“有了孩子会困难很多。”
By almost any metric, Cuba's demographics are in dire straits. Since the 1970s, the birthrate has been in free fall, tilting population figures into decline, a problem much more common in rich, industrialized nations, not poor ones.
几乎从任何标准来看，古巴的人口都面临严峻的困难。自70年代以来，出生率一直在大幅下滑，导致人口数量减少。这个问题本应在富裕的工业化国家更普遍，而不是贫穷国家。
Cuba already has the oldest population in all of Latin America. Experts predict that 50 years from now, Cuba's population will have fallen by a third. More than 40 percent of the country will be older than 60.
在所有拉美国家中，古巴的人口老龄化程度是最严重的。专家预计，50年后古巴的人口将减少三分之一。全国40%以上的人超过60岁。
The demographic crisis is both an economic and a political one. The aging population will require a vast health care system, the likes of which the state cannot afford. And without a viable workforce, the cycle of flight and wariness about Cuba's future is even harder to break, despite the country's halting steps to open itself up to the outside world.
人口危机既是经济问题，也是政治问题。老龄化程度日渐加剧，要求有一个庞大的医疗保健系统，而国家却没钱建立这类系统。尽管古巴正在时断时续地朝对外开放迈进，但如果没有活跃的劳动力，逃离古巴和怀疑古巴未来的循环就更难打破。
“We are all so excited about the trade and travel that we have overlooked the demographics problem,” said Hazel Denton, a former World Bank economist who has studied Cuban demographics. “This is a significant issue.”
“我们都对贸易和旅游感到非常激动，以至于忽略了人口问题，”研究古巴人口问题的前世行经济学家黑兹尔·登顿(Hazel Denton)说。“这是个重大问题。”
Young people are fleeing the island in big numbers, fearful that warming relations with America will signal the end of a policy that allows Cubans who make it to the United States to naturalize. Until recently, a law prohibited Cubans from taking children out of the country, further discouraging many from having children to avoid the painful choice of leaving them behind.
年轻人正在大量逃离这个岛国。他们害怕与美国关系日渐升温，预示着允许抵美古巴人入籍的政策即将结束。直到最近，还有法律禁止古巴人带着孩子出境。这进一步打消了很多人要孩子的念头，以免面临把孩子留在国内的痛苦选择。
Those who remain in Cuba say they are also reluctant to have children, citing the strain of raising an infant in a country where the average state salary is just $20 a month.
那些留在古巴的人说，他们也不愿要孩子，因为在一个官方每月发放的薪水平均仅为20美元的国家，抚养婴儿很有压力。
“At the end of the day, we don't want to make things more difficult for ourselves,” said Laura Rivera Gonzalez, an architecture student, standing with her husband in central Havana. “Just graduating doesn't mean that things are resolved. That won't sustain us.”
“总而言之，我们不想把事情弄得更难办，”和丈夫站在哈瓦那市中心的建筑专业学生劳拉·里韦拉·冈萨雷斯(Laura Rivera Gonzalez)说。“只是毕业并不意味着事情解决了。那还不足以让我们支撑下去。”
Gonzalez embodies a common feature of the Cuban demographic crisis: As the government educated its people after the revolution, achieving one of the highest literacy rates in the world, its citizens became more cautious about bearing children. Scant job opportunities, a shortage of available goods and a dearth of sufficient housing encouraged Cubans to wait to start a family — sometimes indefinitely.
冈萨雷斯代表着古巴人口危机的一个共同特点：革命结束后，政府让民众受教育，取得了在全世界名列前茅的识字率，但民众却对生孩子变得更加谨慎。工作机会少得可怜、商品短缺、缺乏足够的住房，这都促使古巴人推迟建立家庭。有时候，这种推迟是无限期的。
“Education for women is the button you press when you want to change fertility preferences in developing countries,” said Denton, who now teaches at Georgetown University. “You educate the woman, then she has choices — she stays longer in school, marries at an older age, has the number of children she wants and uses contraception in a more healthy manner.”
“在发展中国家，想要改变生育意愿，就向女性提供教育，”目前在乔治城大学任教的登顿说。“让女性受教育，然后她就有了选择权——上学的时间更久，结婚的年龄更晚，知道自己想要几个孩子，并能用更健康的方式避孕。”
There is another factor that alters the equation in Cuba: Abortion is legal, free and commonly practiced. There is no stigma attached to the procedure, helping to make Cuba's reported abortion rates among the highest in the world. In many respects, abortion is viewed as another manner of birth control.
改变古巴这种状态的还有另一个因素：堕胎是合法且免费的，非常普遍。这么做并没有耻辱感，这促使古巴成为世界上堕胎率最高的国家之一。在很多方面，堕胎被视作一种避孕手段。
In Cuba, women are free to choose as they wish, another legacy of the revolution, which prioritized women's rights. They speak openly about abortions, and lines at clinics often wrap around the building.
在古巴，女性可以按照自己的意愿自由选择，这是革命留下的另一个成果，优先考虑女性权利。她们公开谈论堕胎，诊所外经常排起长龙。
By the numbers, the country exhibits a rate of nearly 30 abortions for every 1,000 women of childbearing age, according to 2010 data compiled by the United Nations. Among countries that permit abortion, only Russia had a higher rate. In the United States, 2011 figures show a rate of about 17.
从数字上看，每1000名育龄女性中有将近30人堕胎，这是联合国在2010年汇编的数据。在允许堕胎的国家中，只有俄罗斯的堕胎率比古巴高。2011年的数据显示，美国每1000名育龄女性中有大约17人堕胎。
But experts caution that the liberal abortion policy is not responsible for the declining population. Rather, it is a symptom of a larger issue. Generally speaking, many Cubans simply believe they cannot afford a child.
但专家们警告称，自由堕胎的政策并不是人口减少的原因。这是一个更大的问题的征兆。通常来说，很多古巴人只是觉得他们无法承担养育孩子的费用。
“I've had two abortions, one of them with Jorge,” said Claudia Aguilar San Juan, a 27-year-old restaurant worker, referring to her boyfriend of two years, Jorge Antonio Nazco. “At the time, we didn't think we were ready to have kids, and we continue to think that it's still not the time.”
“我堕过两次胎，其中一个是豪尔赫的孩子，”27岁的餐厅员工克洛迪娅·阿吉拉尔·圣胡安(Claudia Aguilar San Juan)说。“当时，我们觉得没有做好要孩子的准备，至今还是这么认为。”豪尔赫指的是她交往了两年的男朋友豪尔赫·安东尼奥·纳斯科(Jorge Antonio Nazco)。
Nazco added: “We need to be able to afford basic things for ourselves, and we're also not going to be living three people in one room. I just want to give my kids a comfortable life, a better life than what I had.”
纳斯科表示，“我们需要能够负担我们的基本生活，而且我们可不要三个人住在一个房间里。我只是希望为我的孩子提供一种舒适的生活，希望他们过得比我好。”
Very few tactics work to increase a nation's fertility rate, despite efforts in countries like Japan to pay families to have children.
很少有策略能够提高一个国家的生育率，即便像日本等国那样采取奖励生育的举措。
What some suggest could help is if the government could manage to encourage the vast Cuban expatriate population to come home. There, too, the government has shown some willingness to adjust its stance, including easing the return of islanders living or traveling abroad.
一些人表示， 如果政府能够鼓励古巴大量的移居国外者回国，或许会有所帮助。政府也表现出一些调整立场的意愿，包括放松对移居海外或出国旅游的岛民回国的限制。
But surmounting the long-standing bitterness of many families toward the government, which still holds a tight grip on the country, poses challenges of its own. And the returning Cubans will need to be interested in more than an extended vacation or investment opportunity.
然而，对于这个至今仍牢牢控制着国家的政府来说，要克服很多家庭长期以来对它的怨恨并非易事。要吸引古巴人回国，仅凭一个漫长的假期或一个投资机会是不够的。