NOBODY ever said that big cities make for easy living. The apps of the moment, Uber and Airbnb, try to mitigate matters by letting you book a car ride or rent someone’s apartment using your smartphone or computer. They are beloved by those contemplating scarce taxis or $500 hotel rooms. But they’re considerably less popular among city regulators, whose reactions recall Ned Ludd’s response to the automated loom.
从来都没人说过，在大城市生活很容易。而现在流行的app，Uber和Airbnb就试图缓解这一状况，这两个app能让你通过智能手机和电脑分别订到出租车或者租到别人的公寓。在那些为稀缺的出租车或者价格高达500美元（约合3100元人民币）每晚的宾馆房间发愁的人中间，它们颇受青睐。然而，市政监管部门却不怎么欢迎这些apps，它们的反应让人想到内德·勒德(Ned Ludd)砸机械化纺织机的情景。
Last month, Uber was effectively outlawed by Vancouver, British Columbia (by setting a minimum fare so high it discouraged users), and there are proposals to ban it in New York and other cities. Airbnb is already illegal in cities like San Francisco and New York, where unpredictable enforcement can result in enormous fines for its users.
上个月，位于不列颠哥伦比亚省的温哥华就有效地禁止了Uber的使用（他们设定了一个通过Uber订车的最低车费，数额极高，因而打消了用户使用Uber的念头），纽约和其他一些城市也有人提议禁止使用Uber。而Airbnb在旧金山和纽约已属非法，在抽检中抓到的用户可能面临巨额罚款。
To be fair, the cities think they’re protecting consumers, and the apps, particularly Airbnb, do raise some real concerns. You might be less of an Airbnb fan if your neighbor ran a hostel for the world’s misbehaving youth. As for Uber, its rates aren’t governed by city agencies, and it raised them in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy in New York City — which critics labeled price gouging.
公平地讲，市政监管部门认为它们在保护消费者，而且这些apps，尤其是Airbnb的确带来了一些实际问题。如果你的邻居开着一家供世界上的问题青年居住的家庭旅社，你可能就不会那么亲睐Airbnb了。而就Uber而言，它的费率不受市政机构的管制，在纽约，“桑迪”飓风(Sandy)过后，Uber还提高了收费标准——批评者认为这是价格欺诈。
Yet many of the complaints are anecdotal, and too many have the odor of industry protectionism. Banning Airbnb helps hotels more than homeowners; banning Uber helps taxi companies more than passengers. Boston, in one egregious example, tried to ban Uber simply because it used GPS to measure fares, instead of an old-fashioned meter. (The ban was later reversed.)
然而很多对这两款应用的不满都是捕风捉影，而且很多都带有行业保护主义的意味。禁止使用Airbnb更有利于宾馆而不是私有房主；而对Uber的禁令也更有利于出租公司而不是乘客。其中一个不可思议的例子就是，在波士顿，监管部门试图禁止使用Uber，其原因仅仅是Uber使用了GPS而不是老式的计价器来计算车费。（该禁令后来被废除。）
Regulators can do their job and protect consumers against harm without being so heavy-handed. The current approach recalls Prohibition: total bans that are widely violated, with semi-random enforcement and huge fines for unlucky individuals (one Airbnb host in New York recently faced more than $40,000 in potential penalties, before the case was dismissed). It’s a clumsy approach that turns ordinary citizens into scofflaws.
监管部门不必采取如此严厉的措施，也能履行自己的职责，保护消费者的利益不受损害。目前实施的措施让人想起美国的《全国禁酒令》(Prohibition)：全面禁令遭到大范围的违规，在半心半意的执法下，倒霉被抓的人遭到巨额罚款（最近，一个位于纽约的通过Airbnb出租房的人一度面临可能超过4万美元的罚款，后来，该案件被撤销。）这是一种拙劣的管理方式，它将普通市民变成了违法分子。
This isn’t to say that the apps should have some kind of special legal immunity. It’s just that there are much smarter and more effective ways to protect consumers against potential harms. The trick is using the same techniques of real-time information access that the apps employ.
这并不是说，app应该享有某种特殊的法律豁免权。只不过，要保护消费者利益不受潜在的损害，有更明智、更有效的方法。窍门就是，使用app所运用的技术，实时获取信息。
Here’s how it might work for Airbnb. Cities could require the company to provide co-op boards and landlords, at their request, with an app that listed any advertised rentals at their addresses. That way, instead of one uniform rule for the city, landlords and boards could decide for themselves how they wanted to handle Airbnb rentals. They could take a laissez-faire approach, or ban tenants from advertising on Airbnb entirely — in which case the app would help them detect and fine any violators. Others might choose to include Airbnb guidelines in rental contracts, take a part of the proceeds or limit usage to certain levels. Over all, getting better information about how Airbnb is actually being used would yield better solutions for all.
以下方式管理Airbnb可能行得通。在合作公寓管委会和房主的要求下，市政管理部门可以要求Airbnb公司为他们提供一个app，上面列出所有基于他们的地址打出的租赁广告。与城市制定一条统一的规则相比较，通过这种方法，房东和管委会可以自行决定，他们想如何处理Airbnb上的租赁行为。他们可以采取自由放任的方法，或者完全禁止承租人在Airbnb上发广告。在后一种情况下，app将帮助他们发现所有违反此规定的人，并处以罚款。另一些情况下，也可以选择把有关Airbnb的使用规定放入租赁合同，从交易中收取一定利润，或把Airbnb的使用权限制在特定的范围内。总而言之，更好地理解Airbnb的实际运用，将为所有人带来更好的解决方案。
Another info-access app could help cities regulate Uber’s rates, if they really were afraid of price gouging. Regulators could simply require Uber to disclose the prices it charged and where its cars were going. If cities wanted to ban rate hikes during emergencies, they could watch to see that the law was obeyed.
如果市政监管部门确实害怕价格欺诈，另行开发一个获取信息的app就可以帮助它们监管Uber的费率。监管机构可以简单地要求Uber公开其收取的费用，以及相应的出租车路线。如果市政部门想禁止在紧急情况发生时涨价的行为，他们可以监控他们是否遵守法律。
This kind of precise, data-driven regulation could protect consumers while also protecting their right to pay for a valuable service. No one can deny that these apps are responding to real demands and helping cities become easier to live in and visit. There are also basic rights at stake. Using Uber to hire a car is basically an exercise in freedom to contract. Taking away the right to rent out your room diminishes the value of your property and drives up costs for visitors.
这类基于数据的精准监管不仅能保护消费者权益，还能保护他们花钱获得有价值的服务的权利。没人可以否认，这些app满足的是真实的需求，并且使得城市更加便于居住和旅游。利害攸关的还有一些基本权利。通过Uber来租一辆车，基本上是消费者在行使契约自由 。而剥夺人们出租房屋的权利，将贬低其房产的价值，并迫使旅游者的花费上升。