TODAY’S polarized debates about the role of government often boil down to a single issue: the size of government compared with the size of the overall economy, as measured in gross domestic product.
今天对于政府角色的辩论分歧严重，这场辩论常常会归结为这样一个问题：以国内生产总值(GDP)计算，政府的规模与整体经济的规模相对比是怎样的？
This is true on both sides of the debate. One recent proposal featured in The Wall Street Journal argues for a “golden fiscal rule” that the size of government as a percentage of G.D.P. should always be shrinking; liberals frequently cite the higher ratio of government spending to G.D.P. in many European countries.
辩论双方都是如此。《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)最近刊登的一个提议认为，政府规模在GDP中所占的比例，应当遵循比例一直缩小的“黄金财政法则”；而自由派则指出，许多欧洲国家政府开支占GDP的比例要更高。
But such comparisons are not very meaningful: The way we measure government’s role in the economy is limited, inaccurate and unrealistic. If we want to understand how government and the overall economy interact, knowing the size of government tells us little if we are not measuring how government activities contribute to our economy over time.
然而这种比较并没有什么意义：我们衡量政府在经济中扮演的角色时，方法有局限性、不准确也不切实际。如果我们想要了解政府与整体经济是如何互动的，仅仅知道政府的规模，而没有衡量政府活动长期以来对经济做出了怎样的贡献，其实并不能说明什么。
The problem is that most government goods and services are provided free, so they do not have market prices like, say, mouthwash or financial planning. Standard national accounting — in G.D.P. and related economic indicators — addresses this by assuming that the value of government is exactly equal to what government spends, without any consideration of what government actually produces or of the value of this public output.
问题在于政府提供的商品和服务大多是免费供应的，所以它不像漱口水或理财规划一样，有市场价格。常规的国民经济计量方法，如GDP和相关的经济指标，解决这个问题的方法是，假定政府的价值与政府的开支完全相等，不考虑政府实际上产出了什么，也不考虑公共部门的这些产出有多大价值。
In a report released by my organization, Demos, this week, we make the case that, in at least four critical ways, this G.D.P. framework ignores or obscures public value in our economy, leaving us ill equipped to fashion policy to drive national success in the 21st century.
在我的机构德莫斯(Demos)本周发布的一份报告中，我们提出，在四个至关重要的方面，这种GDP衡量框架忽视或遮盖了我们经济中的公共价值，所以我们没有充分的依据来指定政策，推动国家在21世纪取得成功。
The first problem is that much of what G.D.P. measures as personal, private spending — which counts for two-thirds to 70 percent of the economy — is highly socialized consumption. It is not financed directly from households’ private earnings, but from public sources or from publicly subsidized private sources.
第一个问题是，GDP中被计算为个人和私营部门开支的部分，占整体经济的三分之二到70%，但这部分开支里很大部分是高度社会化的消费。这些消费的资金并非直接来自家庭的私人收入，而是来自公共财政资金，或是受到公共资金补贴的私营部门渠道。
Government benefits through social insurance and the social safety net — about $2.3 trillion in 2012 — fund a large part of personal consumption. The same goes for nonprofit services and employer-provided benefits; these are counted directly as personal consumption. This is a huge oversight: In a 2011 Bureau of Economic Analysis study, the share of consumption from these “indirect” — mainly public or social — sources was found to be 30 percent in 2009, having quadrupled over the last five decades.
政府福利以社会保险和社会安全福利的形式，构成个人消费的一大部分，2012年时约有2.3万亿美元。非营利服务和雇主提供的福利也是如此，这些资金也被直接计入了个人消费中。这样计算是一个重大疏漏：2011年经济分析局(Bureau of Economic Analysis)的一项研究显示，这些“间接”来源（主要是公共资金或社会资金）的消费所占的比例，在2009年占30%，在过去五十年里提高到了最初的四倍。
Returns on public investment are another form of unmeasured public value. Take infrastructure. Using a very conservative model, the economists Robert J. Shapiro and Kevin A. Hassett estimate annual private gains of roughly $800 billion from our surface transportation infrastructure, compared with annual costs of roughly $185 billion. These significant gains are captured “downstream” in G.D.P., largely as personal consumption. But they should not count as such; they are public gains, not private.
公共投资的回报，也是一种未经统计的公共价值，比如基础设施。经济学家罗伯特·J·夏皮罗(Robert J. Shapiro)和凯文·A·哈西特(Kevin A. Hassett)使用极为保守的模型估算道，私营部门每年能从地面交通基础设施中得益8000亿美元，相比之下，年成本约为1850亿美元。这笔巨大的收益，被计入了GDP的“下游”，主要是作为个人消费。然而这一部分经济活动，不应如此统计，它们是公共资金的投资回报，而不是私人的。
A third form of mismeasurement is the benefit of regulation, or what might be termed our regulatory saving. In its first 20 years, the Clean Air Act generated health savings and other benefits valued at $22 trillion, compared with $500 billion in compliance costs. Arguably, net regulatory gains on such a scale should be considered a form of national saving, but they’re not. Indeed, across many areas of regulation, we have a saving rate that matches and at times dwarfs the national saving rate as it is usually measured.
第三种形式的错误估计是监管的收益，或许也可以称作监管的节约。在颁布后最初的20年里，《清洁空气法》(Clean Air Act)节约的医疗费用及其产生的其他收益约有22万亿美元，相比较而言，合规成本约为5000亿元。可以说，这种规模的净监管收益，应当理解成为国民储蓄，但人们并没有这么认为。的确，在许多监管领域，我们的储蓄率达到（有时候甚至超过了）按照当下计算方式得来的国民储蓄率。
Finally, there is the ever expanding realm of nonmarket capital, including human, social, intellectual and natural capital. Nonmarket capitalization, which significantly depends on government activities like education spending, public safety, research investments and environmental protection, is much larger than market capitalization as measured in private investment; it is also more significant for long-term prosperity. Yet it is ignored in our national accounts, jeopardizing our future prosperity.
最后，还有规模不断扩大的非市场资本，包括人力、社会、智力和自然资本。非市场资本极度依赖政府活动，如教育开支、公共安全、研究投资和环境保护；非市场资本的规模远远超过了以私人投资衡量的市场资本规模，而且前者对长期繁荣而言也更加重要。然而在全国的账簿里，它却受到了忽视，这会危急我国未来的繁荣。