The practice of crowdfunding real estate is spreading from South America — where Prodigy Network recently raised around $239 million from 3,100 Colombians to build a 66-story skyscraper in Bogotá — to New York, where the developer Urban Muse is hoping to offer a slice of a Brooklyn Bridge Park project to the public.
为房地产项目“众筹”(crowdfund)资金的做法，正从南美洲蔓延到纽约——奇才网络(Prodigy Network)最近从3100名哥伦比亚人那里筹集到大约2.39亿美元（约合人民币14.655亿元），在波哥大(Bogotá)修建了一栋66层高的摩天大楼。而纽约开发商都市缪斯(Urban Muse)现在希望公众也能从布鲁克林大桥公园(Brooklyn Bridge Park)的一个项目里分得一杯羹。
Taking a page from Web sites like Kickstarter and Indiegogo, real estate upstarts like Fundrise, Property Peers, Realty Mogul and Prodigy Network, which is based in New York, are transforming the way real estate projects are built and who profits from them, by allowing the public to invest in an asset class that has traditionally been the exclusive domain of wealthy investors and private equity firms.
房地产历来都是富有的投资者和私募股权公司的专属投资领域，但如Fundrise、Property Peers、Realty Mogul以及纽约的奇才网络这样的房地产新贵们，正在改变房地产项目营建及获利人群的格局；它们借鉴Kickstarter和Indiegogo等网站的做法，让公众得以直接参与房地产项目的投资。
“It’s a very simple concept,” said Daniel Miller, co-founder of Fundrise. “You should be able to invest in your neighborhood.”
“（房地产众筹）是一个非常简单的概念，”Fundrise的联合创始人丹尼尔·米勒(Daniel Miller)说，“通过这种方式，你可以投资自己所在社区里的项目。”
Daniel Miller, 25, and his brother Benjamin, 36, are the pioneers behind Fundrise, a Web platform that lets communities invest in local real estate projects. Sons of a prominent developer in the Washington area, the brothers began wondering a few years ago why people in a community, like the transitional H Street NE neighborhood, couldn’t have more of a say in what was being built there.
丹尼尔·米勒现年25岁，他同36岁的哥哥本杰明(Benjamin)联合创建了网络平台Fundrise，社区成员可以通过它投资本地的房地产项目。兄弟俩出生于华盛顿地区知名的开发商家庭，几年前，他们开始思考这样一个问题：为什么在社区里，比如处于转变期的H街东北社区，人们不能在应该营建什么样的项目方面拥有更多的话语权？
They realized that who the investors are and where the money comes from determine what gets built: distant private equity backers who see a deal as simply an investment vehicle tend to put up cookie-cutter projects and strip malls anchored by chain stores — hardly what the community may want or need.
他们意识到，营建什么样的建筑物，取决于投资者是谁、钱从何处来：私募股权投资者对于具体项目缺乏感情，仅仅视其为一个投资获利的工具。他们倾向于开发千篇一律的项目，修建连锁店林立的购物街——而社区成员可能不需要、也不不希望有这样的东西。
“Who your money is affects what you build, but no one ever thinks about that,” said Benjamin Miller, who also co-founded a site called Popularise that lets developers solicit input from the community. “We’re taking an institutional asset and changing who gets to invest in it.”
“你的钱属于谁，影响着你会开发怎样的项目，但从没有人好好想过这个事儿，”本杰明·米勒说。他还参与创办了另一个名为Popularise的网站，开发商可以通过它来征求社区成员的意见。“于是我们拿一处公共机构的资产试水，改变其投资者的来源。”
A faded two-story brick building on Washington’s H Street seems an unlikely site for a revolution. But the unassuming structure — at 906 H Street NE — on Monday became the latest commercial development project to be open to public investment.
华盛顿H街上的一栋褪色的二层砖楼，看上去不太像是会发生革命的地方。但在本周一（5月13日——译注），H街东北906号这栋不起眼的建筑物，成为了最新一处向公众开放筹资的商业开发项目。
Financial stakes in the renovation project were offered to residents of Washington and Virginia on Fundrise.com. By Tuesday morning, investors had snapped up 1,500 shares priced at $100 a share. All told, 3,500 shares were offered to the public — or 25 percent of the project cost (the rest was raised from private investors and West Mill Capital, the Millers’ development firm).
华盛顿和弗吉尼亚州的居民可以在Fundrise.com上购买这个改造项目的股份。截至周二早上，投资者们已经抢购了1500股股票，每股价格为100美元（约合人民币613.2元）。这个项目面向公众发行的股票总数为3500股——占项目总成本的25%（其余部分来自私人投资者和米勒家的房地产开发公司West Mill Capital）。
Cameron Cook, a 25-year-old project manager and Web developer who lives close to H Street NE, was among the first to invest, paying $1,000 for 10 shares. In addition to the potential financial gain — an estimated 7 percent annual dividend from rental revenue plus appreciation in the property — he was drawn to the novelty of the idea and the ability to directly take part in the neighborhood’s revival. “I think it’s cool that the community can be more in control of what’s happening around them,” Mr. Cook said.
现年25岁的卡梅伦·库克(Cameron Cook)，是一名项目经理及网络开发人员，住在H街东北社区附近，他花1000美元购买了10股股票，成为这个项目的首批公众投资者之一。除了源自股息、租金收入及物业升值，约7%的潜在年度财务收益外，这个理念之新奇和可以直接参与社区复兴，也是吸引他的因素。库克说：“现在社区居民对自己周边将要发生的变化，可以有更大的控制权了，我觉得这很酷。”
That seemingly simple idea is actually a radical departure from conventional practice, and requires some financial and regulatory gymnastics. Under current law, only wealthy “accredited” investors (typically those with a net worth of $1 million or more) are allowed to invest in private firms.
这个理念看似简单，却从根本上背离了常规做法，而且需要金融和监管领域的配合。根据现行法律，只有富有的、“通过审核”的投资者（通常拥有净资产100万美元或以上）才能投资给私人公司。
But recent changes to securities laws ushered in by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, signed into law in April 2012, will soon make it much easier for the Millers and other new-breed developers to “crowdfund” real estate.
但是，在2012年5月签署为法律的《创业企业扶助法》(Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act)的影响下，证券法规近期将进行一些修改。很快，米勒和其他新型开发商就能更加方便地为房地产项目“众筹”资金了。
Under that law, unaccredited investors may invest up to $2,000 a year, or 5 percent of their income or net worth (whichever is greater), in private firms, like a real estate limited liability company, as long as the investment takes place on a site or broker-dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The law, however, has been bogged down at the S.E.C., which missed an end-of-year deadline to complete rules.
根据这项法规，未通过审核的投资者若想投资私人公司，比如某家房地产有限责任公司，每年最多可以投入2000美元（约合人民币12264元），或者其收入或资本净值（以较高者为准）的5%。只要投资的地块或经纪交易商在美国证券交易委员会注册登记过即可。然而由于证交会的拖延，这项法规没能在年底的截止期限之前走完生效程序。 
Until then, crowdfunding companies must either restrict investments to accredited investors or, as Fundrise has done, register each development project with the S.E.C. — a process that can take months and tens of thousands of dollars. For now, says Benjamin Miller, offerings are being subsidized to prove the concept. But the brothers hope that eventually the process of offering shares to the public will become much easier.
在这项法规生效之前，众筹公司或是只接受通过审核的投资者投资，或是像Fundrise那样，到证交会为每一个开发项目进行注册——在这一过程可能需要几个月的时间和数万美元的费用。本杰明·米勒说，目前，为了证明众筹概念的可行性，公司对这类项目进行了补贴。但兄弟俩希望，向公众发行股份的过程最终会变得容易很多。
One of their first projects, 1351 H Street NE, a tear-down building in Washington’s H Street Northeast neighborhood, will include a Taiwanese ramen restaurant run by a chef with a local following, food stalls and a retail shop — an idiosyncratic project that would have been a hard sell for conventional investors. But scores of neighborhood residents were happy to invest an average of $2,000 each.
他们首批项目中的一个，是H街NE1351号，即华盛顿H街东北社区内一栋拆后重建的建筑。一位很受当地居民追捧的厨师将在这里经营台湾拉面馆，此外还有一些食品摊位和一家零售店——这个项目不够主流，很难说服传统类型的投资者投入资金；但附近的居民却乐于拿出平均每人2000美元（约合人民币12264元）的投资。
That first deal took three months to close. A subsequent offering — for $320,000 worth of shares in 1539 Seventh Street NW, a 3,600-square-foot building in the Shaw neighborhood — sold out in three hours. And the 906 H Street deal was on track to sell out.
第一个项目的筹资过程花了3个月时间。第二个项目是第七街西北1539号，Shaw社区内一栋3600平方英尺的大楼。其价值32万美元（约合人民币196.22万元）的股票在3小时内便销售一空。目前，H街906号的项目也即将售罄。
The investing public will also benefit from appreciation of the property — a new streetcar line that will run down H Street is expected to accelerate a revival already under way and bolster real estate values.
参与投资的公众也会从房产升值中受益——一条新的有轨电车线路将通往H街，有望加速该区域已经开始的复苏，抬升当地房价。
Gina Schafer, the owner of several Ace hardware stores in the Washington area, invested in two Fundrise projects. “I thought it was cool the minute I saw it,” she said. “We don’t own our hardware store spaces, because real estate is so expensive here, but wish we could.” The H Street projects are “a way for us to get involved in the crazy D.C. real estate market and support our local community.” She said that her first dividend payment was on its way.
吉娜·谢弗(Gina Schafer)是华盛顿地区几家Ace五金店的老板，她投资了Fundrise的两个项目。“我一看到这个项目，就觉得它很酷，”她说，“我们五金店的铺面并不是自己的，因为这里的房价太贵了，但我们希望能拥有自己的铺面。”H街的项目“是一种渠道，让我们既可以涉足疯狂的华盛顿房地产市场，又可以支援我们所在的社区”。她说自己不久就会收到第一笔股息了。 
Lately, the Miller brothers have been to New York, where they talked with local developers about using the Fundrise platform on community-scale projects in the $500,000 to $1 million range. They have been in touch with Jason Goodman, the chief executive of Third Ward, the co-working space that is building a 30,000 square-foot commercial kitchen and incubator in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, and Dan Biederman, the developer behind the Bryant Park revival.
最近，米勒兄弟前往纽约，跟当地房地产开发商讨论使用Fundrise平台为50万至100万美元级别的社区项目众筹资金的事宜。他们和“第三区”(Third Ward)的总裁贾森·古德曼(Jason Goodman)及布莱恩特公园(Bryant Park)复兴项目的开发商丹·比德曼(Dan Biederman)进行了接触。“第三区”是一处协同创作空间(co-working space)，正在布鲁克林的皇冠高地区(the Crown Heights section)修建一个面积达3万平方英尺（约合2787平方米）的商用厨房和孵化器。
In their first New York partnership, they teamed up with Glauco Lolli-Ghetti, founder and principal of Urban Muse, to bid for rights to develop the John Street parcel on the northern edge of the Brooklyn Bridge Park development project. The site, a fenced-in lot adjacent to the Manhattan Bridge, is zoned for up to 130 residential units as well as ground-floor retail. Mr. Lolli-Ghetti envisions a 120,000-square foot building designed by Snohetta, which created the Norwegian Opera House and the September 11 Memorial and Museum.
第一个跟米勒兄弟达成合作关系的纽约开发商，是都市缪斯的创始人和负责人格洛科·罗立-格提(Glauco Lolli-Ghetti)，他们联手拍得了布鲁克林大桥公园开发项目北部边沿的约翰街(John Street)地块的开发权。这个用围栏围着的地块靠近曼哈顿大桥，可容纳至多130户住宅及底商。罗立-格提希望在这里修建一座由斯诺赫塔(Snohetta)建筑事务所设计的12万平方英尺（约合11148平方米）大楼。斯诺赫塔曾设计了挪威歌剧院和“9·11”纪念碑及博物馆。
Under the joint bid, Urban Muse would allow New Yorkers to invest up to $1 million in the retail component. “Retail is such an amenity, I wanted it to be woven into the community,” said Mr. Lolli-Ghetti, although he worries that city officials handling the request for proposals may consider public participation “a gimmick.”
根据联合投标协议，都市缪斯将为纽约居民提供高达100万美元（约合人民币613.2万元）的零售商店投资机会。“零售商店是很好的便利设施，我希望它能遍布社区，”罗立-格提说，不过他也担心，负责处理需求提案的市政府官员可能觉得让公众参与只是一个“宣传噱头”。
He’s not sure crowdfunding is suited to large, complex projects. “In real estate, $10 million to $20 million projects are easy. But if you need $500,000 to buy a (small) property and put a local tenant on the street floor, you can’t do it. It’s too small for private equity.”
他不确定众筹方式是否适用于复杂的大型项目。“在房地产行业，1000万到2000万美元的项目很容易做；但如果你只需要50万美元购买一处（小型）房产，然后让当地居民来租用底商商铺，这就很难实现了。对于私募股权来说，这种项目太小了。”
Mr. Goodman of Third Ward, the co-working and educational space in Bushwick, is a long-term leaseholder who said owning the building through usual lending would require putting 50 percent down in cash — or $7.5 million, an amount out of reach for now.
负责布什克(Bushwick)地区协同创作和教育空间项目“第三区”的古德曼，就是一位长期承租人。他说，通过一般的借贷方式来购买这座建筑，需要一次拿出50%的现金，也就是750万美元（约合人民币4599万元），而他们目前是拿不出这么多钱的。
Buying it with the help of small investors is “something we’ve started to explore again,” he said. (Its Crown Heights commercial kitchen project opening next year is largely financed by Goldman Sachs.)
在中小投资者的帮助下购买这座建筑，是“我们的又一次探索”，他说。（其皇冠高地的商用厨房项目将于明年开工，资金主要由高盛[Goldman Sachs]提供）。
The Third Ward mailing list of 80,000 people, 3,000 members, 15 investors and thousands of students who have taken classes there over the last six years could be a ready investor base.
“第三区”的邮件列表里有8万人，3000名会员，15名投资者，以及过去6年中在那里上过课的数千名学生。这些人可能成为现成的投资者。
“Many of them would be very interested in different ways of participating,” Mr. Goodman said. “This is game-changing for small businesses like ours but also for the neighborhood. It’s bottom-up development instead of top-down, and that is totally unique. Nobody understands a neighborhood better than the people who live there or are stakeholders.
“他们中的许多人会对这个项目感兴趣，并以不同的方式参与进来。”古德曼说，“对于我们这样的小企业，还有居民社区来说，众筹的做法会带来巨大的变化。这种开发方式是自下而上，而非自上而下的，极为独特。没有人比社区当地的居民，或是跟当地息息相关的人，更加了解那个社区了。
“To me, it’s like, why hasn’t this already happened?”
“在我看来，这就像，为什么这种做法不早点出现？”