A strategy called “design thinking” has helped numerous entrepreneurs and engineers develop successful new products and businesses. But can design thinking help you create healthful habits?
一种被称为“设计思维”的策略已经帮助无数创业者和工程师开发出成功的产品，打造出成功的企业。但设计思维是不是也能帮你形成一些健康的习惯呢？
Bernard Roth, a prominent Stanford engineering professor, says that design thinking can help everyone form the kind of lifelong habits that solve problems, achieve goals and help make our lives better.
斯坦福大学杰出的工程学教授伯纳德·罗斯(Bernard Roth)表示，设计思维能帮助所有人形成解决问题、达成目标的习惯，这些可以维持终生的习惯可以让我们的生活变得更好。
“We are all capable of reinvention,” says Dr. Roth, a founder of the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design at Stanford and author of the book, “The Achievement Habit.”
“我们都有再造自我的能力，”罗斯说道，他是斯坦福大学哈索－普拉特納设计研究院(Hasso Plattner Institute of Design)的创始人之一，也是《让你有所成就的习惯》(The Achievement Habit)一书的作者。
I’ve applied design thinking to my own life the past few months, and it seems to be working. I’ve lost 25 pounds, reconnected with close friends and refocused my energy on specific goals and habits.
过去几个月，我把设计思维运用在自己的生活里，发现它好像真的在起作用。我已经减掉了25磅，和昔日好友再度联系起来，并且将自己的精力重新集中在特定的目标和习惯上。
Design thinking has helped me identify the obstacles that were stopping me from achieving my goals, and it’s helped me reframe my problems to make them easier to solve.
设计思维帮我明确了一直妨碍我实现目标的障碍，也帮我重新理清了自己的问题，让它们变得更加容易解决。
In the words of Dr. Roth, design thinking helped me “get unstuck.”
用罗斯的话来说，设计思维帮我“跳出来”了。
To get started, design thinkers focus on five steps, but the first two are the most important. Step 1 is to “empathize” — learn what the real issues are that need to be solved. Next, “define the problem” — a surprisingly tough task. The third step is to “ideate” — brainstorm, make lists, write down ideas and generate possible solutions. Step 4 is to build a prototype or create a plan. The final step is to test the idea and seek feedback from others.
要运用设计思维，需要将注意力放在五个步骤上，最为重要的是前两个。第一步是“移情”——弄清楚需要解决的真正的问题。第二步，“定义问题”——你可能想不到，它其实是件特别困难的事。第三步是“形成概念”——头脑风暴，列单子，写下自己的想法，找到可能的解决办法。第四步是制作一个模型，或制定一个计划。最后一步是检验你的想法，收集其他人的反馈。
Design thinking is normally applied by people who are trying to create a new product or solve a social problem or meet a consumer need.
使用设计思维的人通常是在努力打造一个新产品，解决一个社会问题，或要满足某种消费者需求。
For instance, Stanford students went to Myanmar to work on an irrigation project. The first two steps of design thinking — empathize and define the problem — meant that the students spent time with the farmers to understand their problems with watering crops.
比如，斯坦福大学的一些学生曾去缅甸做一个灌溉项目。依照设计思维的前两步——移情和定义问题，学生们首先要花时间和农民在一起，了解他们在灌溉庄稼方面有什么样问题。
In doing so, they discovered that the farmers’ real problem was not irrigation but light. The farmers used candles or kerosene lanterns, and the fumes filled their small huts. Managing their needs for light without electric power consumed a great deal of time and income.
这个过程中，他们发现农民们面临的真正的问题不是灌溉，而是照明。在那里，农民使用蜡烛或煤油灯照明，他们住的小棚屋因此充满有害气体。在没有电的情况下想办法给自己照明，消耗了当地农民的很多时间和收入。
As a result, the design-thinking students used empathy to shift their focus to the actual problem that needed solving. They developed affordable, solar-powered LED task lights. They have since provided millions of lights to 42 countries, creating an affordable lighting solution in parts of the world that don’t have electricity, or have spotty service.
最后，这些具有设计思维的学生使用移情的方式，将注意力放在需要解决的实际问题上。他们开发出农民买得起的太阳能LED作业灯。之后，他们陆续给42个国家的人提供了数以百万计的灯具，给世界上那些没有电力或电力供应不稳定的区域提供了一种可行的照明解决方案。
Dr. Roth says the same type of thinking that solved the lighting problem for the poor farmers can be applied inward. To start, think about the problem you want to solve. Then ask yourself, “What would it do for me if I solved this problem?”
罗斯表示，这种帮助贫穷农民解决照明问题的设计思维方式也同样可以用到自己身上。首先，可以考虑下你想解决什么问题。然后问自己，“如果解决了这个问题，能给我带来什么改变？”
One example Dr. Roth uses is a person who wants to find a life partner. Ask yourself, “What would finding a partner or spouse do for me?” One answer might be that it would bring you companionship. The next step is to reframe the problem: “How can I find companionship?” There are more and easier answers to the new question — you can meet friends online, take classes, join a club, take a group trip, join a running group, get a pet and spend time at the dog park.
罗斯给出的一个例子是，一个人想给自己找个人生伴侣，要先问自己，“找到人生伴侣或配偶，会给我带来什么？”其中一个答案可能是，这样就有人陪伴。接下来你需要重新界定这个问题：“如何才能获得陪伴？”针对这个新问题，会有更多更容易实现的答案——你可以在网上交友，也可以去选修一些课程，加入一个聚乐部，跟旅行团旅游，参加一个跑步小组，养个宠物并去遛狗的公园消磨时光。
“Finding a spouse now becomes simply one of many possible ways to find companionship,” Dr. Roth says. “By changing the question, I have altered my point of view and dramatically expanded the number of possible solutions.”
“这时候，找到配偶就只是获得陪伴的很多方式中的一个了，”罗斯说道。“通过改变要解决的问题，我改变了自己的观念，大大增加了有可能解决问题的方案的数量。”
For years, I would have told you that my biggest problem was being overweight, but I simply could not find a diet that worked. But design thinking helped me reframe my problem.
如果是在过去几年，我会告诉你我最大的问题是肥胖，我找不到一个可以让自己体重减下来的饮食方式。但设计思维帮我重新定位了自己的问题。
It happened a few months ago when I declined an invitation to a party with many of my favorite people who I hadn’t seen in years. I didn’t go because I was embarrassed by my weight, and I just didn’t feel up to seeing people who knew me when I was thinner. I realized that my issues with my weight were getting in the way of me living my life.
那是在几个月前，当时我婉拒了和不少多年没见面的好友一起参加聚会的邀请。我之所以没有去，是因为我为自己现在这么胖感到难堪，无法面对那些在我比较瘦的时候认识我的人。我意识到，体重问题正在妨碍我过自己的生活。
It was time for design thinking. At this point, a design thinker would ask “What would losing weight really do for you?”
是时候启动设计思维了。这个时候，一个拥有设计思维的人会问，“减肥究竟能给你带来什么？”
The answer surprised me. I wanted to feel better about myself, feel less tired and have more energy and confidence to socialize and reconnect with friends. Conducting my own personal empathy exercise helped me realize that weight loss was really not my problem. Instead, I needed to focus on my friendships, on boosting my energy and getting better sleep.
答案让我有些吃惊。我希望能自我感觉更好一些，感觉不那么累，能有更多精力和信心参加社交活动，和过去的老友重新联系起来。进行自我移情让我意识到，我真正要解决问题不是减肥，而是把注意力放在维护友谊上，我应该改善睡眠，让自己更加精力充沛。
So reconnecting with friends and getting better sleep became my focus. I bought new clothes, which made it easier to make social plans.
因此联络旧友和改善睡眠成了我的重点。我还买了些新衣服，这让制定社交计划变得更容易些。
And surprisingly, this new, more empathetic approach to my own needs also illuminated some ways to improve my diet. I realized a carb crash around lunchtime was making me very tired during the day, so I eliminated sugar and processed carbohydrates and immediately had more energy. In shifting my focus away from weight loss to the real issues weighing on my life, I ended up losing 25 pounds.
让人意外的是，这种为了搞清自身需求而采用的移情处理方法，也在改善自身的饮食方面给我带来一些启发。我意识到午饭摄入大量碳水化合物会让我一整天都感到疲累，所以我去掉了含糖的食物和精加工的碳水化合物，很快感觉精力比以前更足了。当我将注意力从减肥转到真正在严重影响我生活的问题上时，我的体重反倒减少了25磅。
I still have a long way to go, but developing empathy for myself was truly a breakthrough made possible by design thinking.
这点成绩还远远不够，但能够这样自我移情真的是一种突破，这是设计思维帮我实现的。
“Design thinking on the highest level is a way of reframing the way you look at the world and deal with issues, and the main thing is this idea of empathy,” Dr. Roth says. “If you have tried something and it hasn’t worked, then you’re working on the wrong problem.”
“最高层次的设计思维可以重塑你看待世界和解决问题的方式，关键就在于移情，”罗斯说。“如果你尝试了一些东西，不起作用，就说明你应该解决的不是这个问题。”