When Michael Nichols first photographed elephants in the lowland forests of the Central African Republic in 1991, he only caught fleeting moments of them, and at great peril. These sensitive behemoths were so afraid of ivory poachers hunting them down, they thundered off at the slightest hint of human activity.
1991年，当迈克尔·尼科尔斯(Michael Nichols)在中非共和国的低地森林里第一次拍摄大象的时候，他只抓拍到了大象飞奔的时刻，而且还冒了很大的险。这些敏感的庞然大物十分害怕象牙偷猎者会对它们穷追不舍，所以只要觉察到一点人类活动的迹象，就会轰隆隆地跑开。
It took him 16 years to encounter elephants who were not fearful of humans, on the savannah of Kenya’s Samburu National Reserve, where they were protected and used to tourists. He spent two years there photographing a group of 600 elephants, gradually comprehending their complex relationships, intelligence and compassion.
他花了16年时间，才在肯尼亚桑布鲁国家自然保护区(Samburu National Reserve)的热带草原上，遇到了不害怕人类的大象。象群在这里受到了保护，而且已经习惯了游客。他在那里花两年时间为由600头大象组成的象群拍照，并逐渐理解了它们复杂的关系、智力和同情心。
When one family mourned the death of a female, the elephants approached and surrounded the corpse, touched it with their trunks, and started swaying back and forth. Matriarchs from nearby elephant families joined in.
当一个家庭悼念一头母象的死亡时，象群会走过来，围在尸体四周，用鼻子去抚摸它，并开始前后摇摆。附近家庭的领头母象也会加入。
“They go to the corpse and they won’t leave it,” Mr. Nichols said. “Even when it’s just bones. Once a year they’ll visit the bones and hold them with their trunk. I would call that mourning.”
“它们走到尸体旁，不愿意离开，”尼科尔斯说。“即便只剩下骨骼。它们每年都会过来守望这些尸骨，并用鼻子抓住骨头。我认为这是一种凭吊。”
His 20-year project, “Earth to Sky,” is being published by Aperture this week. It is a stunningly beautiful book, whose images, many of them taken while on assignment for National Geographic magazine, reflect experiences that had a profound effect on Mr. Nichols.
本周，Aperture出版了他为期20年的项目《从大地到天空》(Earth to Sky)。这是一本非常漂亮的书，里面的很多图片都是为《国家地理》(National Geographic)杂志拍摄的，这些图片反映了一些对尼科尔斯产生深刻影响的经历。
“These are the most caring and sentient creatures on earth,” he wrote in the book, “yet they suffer so horribly at the hand of man.”
“它们是地球上最懂得关怀且最有感知力的生物，”他在书中写道，“然而它们却遭到了人类如此残忍的对待。”
He was helped in the savannah by Daniel Lentipo, a Samburu tribesman who had worked with a researcher from the environmental organization Save the Elephants. Mr. Lentipo could spot and identify almost any elephant, even from a great distance, and knew the individual names that had been bestowed on each. Mr. Nichols and his guide followed a family led by a matriarch named Navajo.
在草原上时，他得到了丹尼尔·伦蒂波(Daniel  Lentipo)的帮助。伦蒂波是桑布鲁当地部落的居民，曾与环保组织“拯救大象”(Save the Elephants)的一名研究员合作过。即便距离很远，伦蒂波也能够发现并辨识几乎所有的大象，而且还知道他们给每头大象起的名字。尼科尔斯和他的向导对一头名为纳瓦霍(Navajo)的带头母象所带领的大象家族进行了跟踪。
Normally, elephants sleep standing up to be alert to impending danger. But these ones felt comfortable enough that in the middle of the night the whole family lay down and went to sleep “just snoring and farting” around the two men.
一般情况下，大象会站着睡觉，以对潜在危险保持警觉。但是这些大象却觉得非常安适，在夜间所有的家庭成员都躺下来睡觉，在两个人周围“打鼾放屁”。
Mr. Nichols saw complex societal relationships unfold and photographed elders teaching and taking care of young orphans. He also noticed that these elephants were so sensitive to their environment, it was as if they were carrying around an internal weather station. Not to mention a memory — you guessed it — as good as an elephant’s.
尼科尔斯看到了复杂的社会关系，并对较为年长的大象教育和照顾失去双亲的幼象的过程进行了拍摄。他还注意到这些大象对环境十分敏感，就好像带着一个体内气象站一样。它们良好的记忆力自然更不用提——你猜对了——就像一句英语俗语说的，“记忆力好得和大象一样”。
“The old ladies got to know where they found water 20 years ago during a drought,” he said of the matriarchs. “Elephants are passing on knowledge just like indigenous tribes would or we might today.”
“干旱期间，年老的母象能够记起它们20年前曾在哪里找到过水，”他在提到带头母象时说。“大象传递知识的方式，与原住民部落和我们今天的某些方式是一样的。”
If only humans were as faithful to the past. The volume includes Mr. Nichols’s elegiac black and white photographs of a massacre by ivory poachers in Chad in 2006 that he says was the beginning of a full-scale elephant slaughter that continues to today. With each tusk fetching up to $6,000, tens of thousands of elephants throughout Africa are killed for their tusks.
如果人类也能一样忠实于过去就好了。这本册子里还有尼科尔斯拍摄的一些哀恸的黑白照片，照片展示了象牙偷猎者2006年在乍得进行大屠杀的过程。他说，这是大规模屠杀大象的开端，而如今屠杀仍在继续。每根象牙的售价可达6000美元（约合3.67万元人民币），整个非洲每年都有数万头大象因为象牙被杀。
“Ivory simply must be devalued,” Mr. Nichols wrote. “Those who buy it and use it and carve it must be shamed. Elephants are perceptive, conscious and responsive animals; they cannot be terrorized and massacred by a world that calls itself civilized. We have to forget about the absurd indulgence of ivory — a useless status symbol — and put our focus and resources into the far more complex problem of how elephants and humans can share land in an overtaxed continent.”
“我们必须降低象牙的价值，”尼科尔斯写道。“那些购买、使用和雕刻象牙的人应该感到羞愧。大象是一种有感知力、有意识而且有反应的动物；自诩‘文明’的世界不应该让它们感到害怕、对它们进行屠杀。我们必须忘掉对象牙的荒谬嗜好，它只是一种毫无用处的地位象征。我们的注意力和资源应该放在更加复杂的问题上，即大象和人类应该如何在这个负担过重的大洲上共存。”
He sees this as more than a conservation issue. Both in the jungles and on the plains, ecosystems depend on elephants to clear the land for other animals to use. But there is an “almost spiritual” experience, he said, in seeing large herds of elephants walking freely across Africa’s plains.
他认为这件事并不只是动物保护问题。不论在丛林中，还是在草原上，生态系统都需要依靠大象来清理土地，以供其他动物使用。但是他说，看到一大群大象在非洲草原上自由穿行的情景，“几乎是一次涤荡心灵的”经历。
“Elephants should be here just because they need to be here,” he said. “The earth is not the earth without them.”
“大象应该在这里，这仅仅是因为它们需要在这里，”他说。“如果没有它们，地球将不再是原来的地球。”