TOKYO — Several industrialized countries have turned their backs on nuclear power as a result of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, including one that has already begun permanently shutting functioning plants. That country is not Japan.
东京——在福岛核事故之后，几个工业化国家都已经放弃了核能，其中一个国家更是已经开始永久关闭正在使用的核电站。这个国家并不是日本。
“Germany chose to get rid of nuclear power because of Fukushima, while the United States is still in favor, but what about Japan, where the accident took place?” said Jun Tateno, who has written several books on nuclear power. “We still have not had a proper public debate about the most fundamental question: Do we want nuclear power’s low-cost electricity for growth, or do we want a safer, nuclear-free society?”
“德国因为福岛核事故选择放弃核能，而美国依然支持核能，但事故发生地日本的态度呢？”著有几本有关核能的书籍的馆野淳(Jun Tateno)说。“我们仍然没有就最基本的问题进行适当的公开辩论：我们是希望通过核能低成本发电发展经济，还是想要一个更加安全的无核社会呢？”
Many analysts had hoped that last Sunday’s vote to choose the next governor of Tokyo would provide just such a forum to that question, which lies at the heart of Japan’s struggle to find its economic footing after two decades of malaise.
很多分析人士曾期待，上周日进行的下任东京都知事的选举会提供一个讨论上述问题的舞台。这个问题是日本经历20年的低迷状态之后寻找经济立足点的关键所在。
But the results of the contest — which included an impassioned though unsuccessful run by two antinuclear candidates, including a former prime minister — were unclear at best.
两名反核候选人展开了充满激情，却并不成功的竞选，其中一人还曾担任过首相。然而，此次竞选最多算是带来了一个含糊不清的结果。
The current prime minister, Shinzo Abe, appeared emboldened by the results, saying a day after the election that he would soon release a “realistic and balanced” energy strategy, which analysts took as meaning one that would call for restarting at least some idled nuclear plants. But some analysts warned that Mr. Abe could still face a public backlash if he is seen as rushing to return Japan to its pre-accident status quo, especially if he fails to convince enough voters that the plants can be made safe.
选举结果似乎让现任首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)倍受鼓舞。选举后一天，他表示将很快公布“务实而均衡”的能源策略。分析人士认为，这意味着该策略将呼吁重启至少部分的闲置核电站。不过，一些分析人士警告，倘若安倍晋三被民意看成急于将日本拉回事故前的老样子，尤其是假如他不能说服足够的选民核电站能够安全运行的话，他就仍然可能面临强烈的公众反对。
“The no-nukes candidates lost, but that doesn’t mean there is suddenly a consensus in favor of nuclear power,” said Shiro Asano, a professor of politics at Keio University.
“主张无核的候选人落败了，但这并不意味着人们突然之间就达成了亲核的共识，”庆应义塾大学(Keio University)的政治学教授浅野史郎(Shiro Asano)说。
The election, in fact, appears to encapsulate the indecisiveness that has kept Japan paralyzed for nearly three years, since the triple meltdowns. After decades of marching forward in the belief that the resource-poor country needed cheap nuclear power to compete economically, Japan is no longer able to muster a new national consensus on it.
实际上，本次选举似乎正好概括了让日本在三重熔融事故后裹足不前近三年的那种犹豫不决。数十年里，日本一直深信自己这个资源贫乏的国家需要低成本的核能来进行经济竞争，并且带着这样的信念向前迈进。然而，日本如今已经不能够在这一问题上达成新的全国性共识。
At root, analysts say, is the deeper angst of a nation still grappling with the existential question raised by the disaster: Are the majority of Japanese who appear afraid to turn the plants back on willing to enter an uncharted, nuclear-free future that might consign their country to decades of lower growth? That question has taken on new urgency as a rising China is challenging Japan’s influence in the region.
分析人士认为，根源在于，日本仍然挣扎于福岛事故带来的生存问题，并因此深感忧虑。那就是：害怕重启核电站的日本多数民众，是否愿意投身一个未知的无核未来，从而面对自己的国家陷入数十年更低增长的可能性？随着崛起的中国日益挑战日本在地区内的影响力，更是给这一问题增添了新的紧迫性。
Voters continue to send mixed signals, electing Mr. Abe, who has called the low-cost electricity from nuclear power a vital part of his popular Abenomics strategy to revive growth even as polls continue to show an ambivalence about atomic energy. Voters have chosen Mr. Abe’s pro-nuclear governing party in national elections, but then oppose an immediate restart of the plants in opinion polls.
选民一直在发出含混的信号，选出了安倍晋三担任首相。尽管民调持续显示，公众对核能抱有矛盾的心态，他还是将低成本核能发电称为“安倍经济学”中必不可少的组成部分，而这一恢复增长的策略受到了广泛欢迎。选民们还在全国性选举中选择了安倍晋三所在的亲核执政党，但又在民调中表现出反对立即重启核电站的态度。
That fuzzy message has left this consensus-driven country without a way forward, even as its once vaunted trade surplus has turned to a deficit, with soaring bills for fossil fuels to make up for the lost nuclear power.
模糊的讯息让这个由共识推动的国家失去了前进的方向，而此时此刻，为了弥补核能缺失而出现的化石燃料开支飙升，使该国曾经引以为傲的贸易顺差已经变为了逆差。
For the moment, many Japanese have compensated for higher electricity costs by embracing conservation efforts.
许多日本人暂时在用大力节能的方式来弥补电力花销的增长。
And as was true even in the depths of the economic downturn, life for many Japanese remains relatively comfortable. The subways run like clockwork, the country is safer than many in the world and the economy is still the world’s third largest.
而且，即便是经济处于最低谷的时期，许多日本人的生活还是保持了相对舒适的水平。地铁像钟表一样精确运行；日本的安全性高于世界上的多数国家，经济规模也仍然处于全球第三的位置。
While there have been warnings of companies being driven overseas by high energy costs, so far the costs have at least partly been offset by an upturn in profits under Abenomics’s lower-yen, growth-promoting policies, economists say.
虽然有警告称，企业正被高能源成本驱赶到海外，但经济学家们表示，截至目前，由于安倍经济学的弱势日元和促增长政策带来的利润回升，这种成本至少是部分被抵消了。
“People cannot feel the economic damage now because of the overall lift from Abenomics,” said Koji Nomura, an economics professor at Keio University in Tokyo. “But this is a bill that will come due.”
“由于安倍经济学的整体抬升效应，人们现在感觉不到经济损失，”位于东京的庆应义塾大学的经济学教授野村浩二(Koji Nomura)说。“可是，账单迟早是要来的。”
The prime minister and his allies in the business community have argued as much, saying that the idling of the nation’s 48 operable reactors since the accident three years ago threatens Abenomics by forcing Japan to import an extra $36 billion worth of natural gas and other fuel every year.
安倍晋三首相及其商界盟友也提出了同样的观点，宣称三年前的事故后闲置的48座可使用的反应堆会威胁到安倍经济学，迫使日本每年额外进口价值360亿美元（约合2200亿元人民币）的天然气等能源。
But even Mr. Abe has been unwilling to force the point by turning the plants on, while a new regulatory agency has appeared reluctant to risk a public backlash by declaring reactors safe to operate. Popular fears of nuclear power have not been helped by the continuing problems that plague the cleanup at the Fukushima plant, and continued instances of the utility in charge hiding bad news, despite promises that it would change.
不过，就连安倍晋三也不愿用重启核电站的方式来强推这一观点，而新的核能监管机构也似乎不愿冒着公众强烈反对的风险来宣布这些反应堆可以安全运行。对核能的普遍担忧还在延续，因为福岛核电站的清污工作接二连三地出现问题，而且负责清污的电力公司口中承诺会予以改正，却仍多次对坏消息遮遮掩掩。
“I don’t know which way to go,” confessed Hajime Morikawa, 35, a temporary office worker who had come out to hear one of the antinuclear advocates before the election. “I hope this becomes a step toward a nuclear-free future, but I don’t see how we can just turn the nuclear plants off.”
“我不知道该走哪条路，”35岁的临时公司职员杜川创（Hajime Morikawa，音译）说。他在选举前出来听取了一名反核倡议者的发言。“我希望这能使我们朝无核的未来迈进一步，但我不明白我们怎么可能就那么把核设施关了。”
That type of sentiment helps explain the mixed messages of last weekend’s election.
这种情绪解释了上周末选举中含混的讯息。
While the candidate from the governing, pro-nuclear power party prevailed, analysts say he did so in part by distancing himself from its stance with vague expressions of support for a gradual phaseout of nuclear energy.
分析人士表示，尽管亲核能的执政党候选人当选，但他的获胜部分是通过含糊地表达对逐步停止使用核能的支持，来拉开自己与执政党的立场之间的距离。
The two candidates who called for immediately scrapping all atomic power plants also fared better than the results seemed to suggest, winning a combined 1.9 million votes, just 200,000 shy of the victor’s tally. And the only avowedly pro-nuclear candidate of any stature, a former general, placed a distant fourth.
呼吁立即废弃所有核电站的两名候选人也取得了比表面看来更好的结果。他们共获得了190万张选票，仅比获胜者的得票少20万张。在有些名气的候选人中，唯一明确支持核能是一名退役的将领，而他远远地排在了第四位。
At the same time, analysts said, Tokyo’s voters proved unconvinced by the lofty vision articulated by the high-profile antinuclear candidate, former Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, and another retired prime minister, the popular Junichiro Koizumi, who campaigned at his side. In campaign speeches, the two men, both patrons of the nuclear industry turned apostates by the accident, spoke urgently of the need for Japan to discard nuclear power and become a pioneer in safer, renewable energies.
分析人士称，选举结果同时证明，东京选民对呼声很高的反核候选人、前首相细川护熙(Morihiro Hosokawa)并不信服，对在本次选举中为其助威的另一名颇受欢迎的前首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)所设想的宏伟蓝图也是一样。这两人原本都对核能工业予以了扶持，但是福岛事故使他们改变了阵营。他们在竞选演说中急迫地表示，日本需要放弃核能，成为更安全的可再生能源领域的先驱。
But many analysts said the victory of the governing party candidate signaled that many voters found the appeals of Mr. Hosokawa and Mr. Koizumi unrealistic.
然而，许多分析人士认为，执政党候选人的获胜表明，很多选民都觉得细川护熙和小泉纯一郎的构想不切实际。
As a sign of the depth of the internal conflict, fissures have begun to appear even in Japan’s once solidly pro-nuclear business world. While the powerful Keidanren lobbying group representing Japan’s business establishment still remains a vocal supporter of restarting nuclear plants, many younger companies have turned against it. Masayoshi Son, an Internet billionaire and a leader of its start-up sector, has, like Mr. Hosokawa, called for Japan to seek alternatives to nuclear power, investing heavily in solar and wind.
日本曾坚定支持核能的商界都已经开始出现裂缝，这表明了内部分歧的深刻性。虽然代表日本老牌商业势力的强大游说团体经济团体联合会(Keidanren)仍然对重启核电站表示强力支持，但许多较为年轻的企业都开始反对。与细川护熙一样，互联网行业的亿万富翁、日本初创企业领域的领头人孙正义(Masayoshi Son)也呼吁日本寻找核能的替代品，并开始对太阳能和风能进行大量投资。
Rifts have also appeared within Mr. Abe’s governing party, where a group of about 50 mostly younger lawmakers have staged a revolt against Mr. Abe’s unabashedly pro-nuclear stance.
安倍晋三的执政党内部也出现了分歧。基本由较为年轻的议员组成的大约50人的团体对安倍晋三支持核能的坚定立场表示了反抗。
But the public has also appeared to lose interest in weekly antinuclear street protests in front of the prime minister’s residence in Tokyo, where the number of people has dropped to a few hundred from tens of thousands two years ago.
但是，公众似乎对在东京的首相寓所前进行每周的反核抗议活动失去了兴趣，抗议人数已经从两年前的数万人减少到了几百人。
Some analysts say that in the end, they expect Japan to reject both the desire to go back to the pre-accident embrace of nuclear power, and idealistic calls to take more of a chance with the future. Instead, they say, they expect Japan to go back to the compromise position of a previous government that Mr. Abe scrapped when he took power: allowing the restart of the newest plants in exchange for promises that Japan will eventually shed nuclear power as realistic alternatives are developed.
有些分析人士表示，他们希望日本最终既能拒绝回到事故前对核能的全盘接受，又不盲从于拿未来冒险的理想主义观念。他们说，希望日本能够回到前政府的妥协态度——允许最新的核电站重启，以此换来相应的承诺，即随着切实可行的替代能源得到发展，日本最终将会放弃核能。安倍晋三在掌权后便放弃了这一立场。
“Neither Abe nor Hosokawa is at the center of public opinion,” said Takeo Kikkawa, an expert on the energy industry at Tokyo’s Hitotsubashi University. “A gradual phaseout remains the best answer for solving the nuclear problem while preserving growth.”
“安倍晋三和细川护熙都不能代表公众舆论的中间派，”东京一桥大学(Hitotsubashi University)的能源领域专家橘川武郎(Takeo Kikkawa)说。“逐步淘汰的做法仍然是在维持增长的同时解决核问题的最佳答案。”