Sam Anderson, the head bartender at Mission Chinese Food in New York, was sitting on a panel of mixologists last spring when the conversation turned to baijiu, the national drink of China.
纽约龙山小馆(Mission Chinese Food)调酒主管萨姆·安德森(Sam Anderson)，参与了一个调酒师小组。今年春天，该小组的讨论话题转向了中国的国饮——白酒。
By volume, baijiu (bye-ZHO), a clear liquor made primarily from sorghum and rice and aged in terra-cotta barrels, is the most widely consumed spirit in the world. But for many non-Chinese drinkers, it is also the most challenging, its aroma variously described as resembling stinky cheese, anise, pineapples, musk and gasoline.
从量来看，白酒是世界上饮用最多的烈酒。这种清澈的烈酒主要由高粱、大米制成，在赤陶桶内变陈。但对于很多外国酒友来说，这也是最具挑战的酒，人们对白酒香气的形容各不相同，比如像臭奶酪、茴芹、菠萝、麝香和汽油。
With Mission Chinese about to reopen in a new spot, Mr. Anderson told his fellow panelists he was thinking about giving his menu a distinctive touch by concocting a baijiu cocktail. “Everyone sort of chortled,” he said. “They said, ‘Good luck with that.’”
由于龙山小馆将换址重开，安德森告诉调酒师小组，他在考虑调制白酒鸡尾酒，提供与众不同的酒单。“大家哈哈大笑起来，”他说。“他们都说，‘祝你好运吧’。”
Undeterred, Mr. Anderson raided a nearby liquor store and came back with 20 bottles, varying in intensity from near-vodka subtlety to Limburger pungency. He settled on a brand called Hong-Kong Baijiu, which is lower in proof and relatively tame in flavor. He paired it with white rum, pineapple juice, peach liqueur, lime juice and basil seeds to create Firewater Walk With Me, a spin on a Singapore Sling and a nod to the “Twin Peaks” theme that pervades the restaurant.
安德森并没有灰心，而是前往附近的酒类专卖店，带回了20瓶白酒，度数各不相同——从伏特加的清冽到林堡软干酪的辛辣。他选中了一款名为“香港白酒”的牌子，这种白酒度数较低，口味相对温和。他将这种白酒与白朗姆酒、菠萝汁、桃味力娇酒、青柠汁和罗勒子相混合，制成了名为“水火伴我行”(Firewater Walk With Me)的烈酒。这款在“新加坡司令”(Singapore Sling)基础上调制的烈酒，是在向餐厅中随处可见的“双峰”(Twin Peaks)主题致意。
And it works: The fruit and rum tame the baijiu, while it gives them a rich, earthy complexity. Mr. Anderson said the drink is one of his best sellers. And while it’s not uncommon for guests to send it back, many order a second round. “It’s definitely for people who are adventurous, people who are down for something new,” he said.
这种鸡尾酒取得了成功：水果和朗姆酒缓和了白酒的冲劲儿，使其散发出丰富、朴实且复杂的味道。安德森表示，这款酒是热卖酒品之一。虽然客人退酒的情况并不罕见，但也有很多人会再点一杯。他说，“这明显适合那些喜欢冒险、尝试新事物的人。”
Baijiu isn’t about to take over the bar, but over the last year it has established a solid beachhead. Bartenders in New York, Washington and Los Angeles have taken it on with the same sense of challenge they once brought to similarly aggressive spirits like overproof whiskey and mezcal.
白酒还没开始在酒吧盛行，但在过去一年中，它已经建立了坚实的滩头阵地。纽约、华盛顿、洛杉矶的调酒师以怀疑的态度使用白酒，就像他们当时对待酒精超标的威士忌，及梅斯卡尔(mezcal)等同样强劲的烈酒的态度一样。
In New York, along with Mission Chinese, places serving baijiu cocktails include Red Farm, the Peninsula hotel, the Park Hyatt hotel and La Chine, a new restaurant in the Waldorf Astoria. In May, the country’s first baijiu-centered bar, Lumos, opened on West Houston Street, featuring more than a dozen baijiu cocktails and infusions.
在纽约，除了Mission Chinese以外，Red Farm、半岛酒店(Peninsula hotel)、柏悦酒店(Park Hyatt hotel)以及华道夫-阿斯多里亚酒店(Waldorf Astoria)的新餐厅La Chine都开始供应白酒鸡尾酒。5月，美国的第一个主打白酒的酒吧Lumos在西休斯顿街(West Houston Street)开业，提供十余种白酒鸡尾酒和搀兑酒。
Still, getting Westerners to drink baijiu can be difficult. There is very little information available to help non-Chinese drinkers understand what makes a good baijiu, let alone how to appreciate it. “There hasn’t been a good effort to introduce Westerners to the spirit,” said Derek Sandhaus, a spirits consultant who lived in China for almost a decade and wrote “Baijiu: The Essential Guide to Chinese Spirits,” one of the few books on the liquor.
然而，让西方人喝白酒仍是件难事。很少有信息帮助中国人以外的饮酒者分辨白酒的好坏，更不用提如何品酒了。“没有人在好好努力向西方人介绍这种酒。”德里克·桑德豪斯(Derek Sandhaus)说。桑德豪斯是一名酒类咨询师，他在中国生活了近10年，他写的《白酒：中国酒类基本指南》(Baijiu: The Essential Guide to Chinese Spirits)是少数的几部介绍白酒的书之一。
But baijiu’s reputation precedes it. Even people who haven’t tried it typically have a friend who, on a business trip to China, was subjected to a night of baijiu shots, a slow march toward a vicious hangover, one thimble-size glass at a time.
但是白酒的名气并不小。即使你还没有喝过白酒，你也会有朋友在去中国出差时晚上被请喝白酒，一次喝一小杯，不知不觉地酿成一场猛烈的宿醉。
“In China, when you drink baijiu, it’s like a knife fight,” said Shawn Chen, the beverage director at Red Farm, a restaurant in the West Village and on the Upper West Side. “You enjoy the reactions on each other’s faces.”
“在中国，喝白酒就像一场白刃战。”肖恩·陈(Shawn Chen)说。肖恩是位于西村和上西区的Red Farm餐馆的饮料总监。他说：“你会享受彼此脸上的表情。”
Nor does it help that in China, there are thousands of brands of baijiu, ranging in flavor and quality from dollar-a-liter rotgut to decades-old bottles that sell for tens of thousands of dollars.
雪上加霜的是，中国有数以千计的白酒品牌，风味和品质各异，从每升1美元的劣质酒，到数十年陈酿售价数万美元的高级白酒。
“Baijiu is just a catchall term for all Chinese spirits, with as much variation as whiskey and rum,” said William Isler, an owner of Capital Spirits, a baijiu cocktail bar in Beijing.
“白酒只是中国酒的一个总称，其中的差异不亚于威士忌和朗姆酒之间的差异。”北京一个白酒鸡尾酒酒吧首都酒坊(Capital Spirits)的店主威廉·艾斯勒(William Isler)说道。
For all that variety, there are commonalities to all baijiu that take some adjustment, above all an earthy, musky funk that lingers long after the liquid is gone. “I always tell people that it’s an acquired taste,” said Kris Baljak, a bartender at Bar at Clement in the Peninsula hotel, who started using baijiu in cocktails last spring.
尽管白酒种类繁多，但所有的白酒都有一些共性需要饮酒者慢慢适应。首先就是在喝下去以后，嘴里很长时间会残留一股刺鼻的泥土麝香混合味道。“我常常告诉别人，这是一种后天养成的口味。”半岛酒店的Bar at Clement酒吧的酒保克里斯·巴尔亚克(Kris Baljak)说。他自去年春天开始用白酒来调鸡尾酒。
Baijiu fans point out that its flavors are broadly appealing on their own: cheese, fruit, licorice. “There’s no flavor there that’s undesirable, but they’re odd in this particular context,” said Christopher Briar Williams, an owner of Coppersea Distilling in the Hudson Valley, who is considering making a baijiu of his own. “I tell people it’s more of an eating experience than a drinking experience.”
白酒爱好者认为，白酒的各种味道已经广受欢迎：芝士味、果味、甘草味。“白酒里没有让人讨厌的味道，但是在这个特殊背景下白酒有些奇怪。”克里斯多弗·布莱尔·威廉姆斯(Christopher Briar Williams)说。威廉姆斯是哈德森河谷(Hudson Valley)的Coppersea Distilling酒厂的老板，他正在考虑自己酿造白酒。“我告诉别人，白酒与其说是喝它，不如说是吃它。”
Put baijiu in a cocktail, though, and things change. Because it has so many flavors, it works well in a variety of combinations.
不过，把白酒调成鸡尾酒就会发生变化。因为白酒的风味很多，它可以有很多种组合。
The key to making a good baijiu cocktail, Mr. Anderson said, is to pair it with equally powerful flavors. “If you do a baijiu cocktail with St. Germain,” he said, referring to the soft liqueur made with elderflower, “the St. Germain will get blown out of the water.”
安德森说，制作一杯上佳的白酒鸡尾酒的关键是搭配和白酒一样强劲的风味。“如果你把白酒和圣日耳曼利口酒(St. Germain)调在一起，”他这里指的是用接骨木花制作的柔顺型利口酒，“圣日耳曼的味道会被完全覆盖。”
While baijiu’s smell and flavors can be formidable, it is remarkably easy to drink. “When I first tried it, I got notes of an old sweat sock smell,” Mr. Baljak said. “But when I tasted it, it’s very smooth,” a quality that lets it play well with others in a mixed drink.
虽然白酒的气味和口味会很浓重，但是它却很好上口。“第一次试喝，我闻到了臭袜子的气味。”巴尔亚克说，“但是喝到嘴里非常顺滑。”这种特点让它在混合酒里游刃有余。
Not just any pairing will work, though. “Baijiu and sweet vermouth are gross, but baijiu loves Campari,” said John Mayer, a former bartender who works for a liquor distributor in Massachusetts. Citrus goes very well with it; so do absinthe and mezcal.
但白酒也不是百搭。“白酒和甜苦艾酒在一起让人作呕，但和金巴利很搭调。”在马萨诸塞州(Massachusetts)为一家酒类批发商工作的约翰·迈耶(John Mayer)说，他曾经是个酒保。柑橘类很配白酒，苦艾酒和梅斯卡尔酒也很不错。
One way to approach baijiu in cocktails is to edit it, adding ingredients to mask some of its flavors and enhance others. Mr. Baljak mixes baijiu with absinthe, midori and lemon foam in a drink he calls the Hidden Dragon. The absinthe cuts some of the funkiness, while the citrus brings out the fruit notes, like strawberry and pineapple.
白酒鸡尾酒的一种调法是修补法，即加入一些配料，掩盖一些风味，突出另一些风味。巴尔亚克把白酒和苦艾酒、蜜多丽柠檬泡沫调在一起，他称之为“藏龙”。苦艾酒去除了一些刺鼻味道，柑橘则带出了草莓、菠萝这样的果味。
Others take a more conservative approach. Fernando Sousa, the head bartender at the Back Room at the Park Hyatt, uses an atomizer to spritz baijiu over a gin and tonic. “It’s a great way to start spreading knowledge about the spirit before throwing two ounces of it into a cocktail,” he said. “So far, the reaction has been pretty positive.”
一些人采取较为保守的调法。费尔南多·苏萨(Fernando Sousa)是柏悦酒店Back Room的首席酒保。他把白酒装在喷雾器里，喷到金汤力上。“这是普及这种酒的知识的好方法，而不是直接去往鸡尾酒里倒两盎司白酒。”他说，“到目前为止，反响不错。”
And while baijiu isn’t about to replace mezcal or rye as the in-crowd’s tipple of choice, it has a growing number of fans. Ben Collier, a hotel consultant sitting at the bar at Mission Chinese Food, said he fell in love with baijiu during a trip to China.
虽然白酒并不能取代梅斯卡尔酒和黑麦酒成为聚会中的烈酒选择，但是它的爱好者正在逐渐增加。坐在龙山小馆吧台前的酒店咨询师本·科利尔(Ben Collier)说，他在一次中国之行时爱上了白酒。
“It’s commonly misunderstood as ‘this nasty Chinese liquor I tried once,’” he said, sipping one of Mr. Anderson’s concoctions. “I like that it’s different. It is what it is. If you’re truly open to new things, you should definitely try it.” (Many online retailers and big-city liquor stores carry baijiu.)
“白酒被大家误解为‘曾尝试过一次的糟糕中国烈酒’。”他一边说，一边啜饮安德森调制的酒品。“我喜欢它的与众不同。白酒就是白酒。如果你真的乐意接受新事物，你一定要试试它。”（很多在线零售商和大城市的酒类商店都可以买到白酒。）
Andrew Wong, an owner of Peking Tavern in Los Angeles, said putting a baijiu cocktail on the menu was an easy call. “It’s something you can’t find in other places,” he said. The bar has several baijiu drinks, including Peking Coffee, made with Red Star baijiu and a coffee liqueur.
洛杉矶的北京楼(Peking Tavern)的店主安德鲁·黄(Andrew Wong)说，把白酒鸡尾酒放到酒单上是一个容易的决定。“它不是随处可见的。”他说。这家酒吧有几款白酒饮品，包括用红星二锅头和咖啡利口酒调成的“北京咖啡”(Peking Coffee)。
What bartenders aren’t doing, at least so far, is recommending that anyone try baijiu on its own. “Occasionally people will order it neat,” Mr. Anderson said. “But usually as a joke.”
至少截止目前，酒保尚未开始向顾客推荐不经调制的白酒。“偶尔会有人点纯白酒。”安德森说，“但这通常都是为了开玩笑。”