When I was in college, I’d sometimes write a single paper that would satisfy assignments in more than one course. For instance, I once wrote a paper on how “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” expressed satire; I submitted it for assignments in both my poetry course as well as my completely separate satire course. I did not disclose this to either professor. When I share this with people, half call the practice cheating, and the other half call it genius. My niece told me it would certainly be grounds for expulsion at her college. In my mind, I was adding a level of intellectual complexity to my studies. Was this an ethical practice, or was I cheating? JOE, CONNECTICUT
上大学时，有时我会写一篇论文，满足不止一门课的作业要求。比方说，我曾写过一篇关于《J·阿尔弗瑞德·普鲁弗洛克的情歌》(The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock)如何表达讽刺的论文；并将它既交到了诗歌课程，也交到了一门完全独立的讽刺文学课程上。我没有向那两位教授交待这件事。当我和别人说起此事时，其中一半人说我这实际上就是作弊，另一半人说这是天才之举。我的侄女说，放到她的大学里，这样做就足够被开除了。在我看来，我这是为自己的学习增添某种智识上的复杂性。我这样做合乎学术道德吗，又或者这样真是作弊？乔，康涅狄格州
As I read and reread this question, I find myself fixated on the idea that this must be unethical, somehow. I suppose my knee-jerk reaction could be described like this: Every professor is operating from the position that any assignment she makes is exclusive to that particular class, even if she doesn’t expressly say so at the onset (in other words, it’s simply assumed that work done for a specific class will be used only for that specific class). It’s as if you were breaking a rule that was so over-the-top obvious it may not have been overtly outlined. But you know what? The more I think this over, the more I find myself agreeing with your position. I don’t think this is cheating. I wouldn’t say it qualifies as “genius,” and it might get you expelled from some universities. Yet I can’t isolate anything about this practice that harms other people, provides you with an unfair advantage or engenders an unjustified reward.
当我反复阅读你的问题时，不知怎的，我总是觉得你的作法应当是不道德的。我想，我自己的这种反射反应可以这样来表述：每位教授都应当持有这种想法，那就是她布置的作业应仅适用于她这门课程，就算她并未在刚开始时这样明说（换句话说，人们通常都会认为一门特定课程上完成的作业，仅应递交给这门特定的课程。）这就有点像是你打破了某种显而易见，因而并没有明确列明的规则。但你知道吗？我越是细细思考，越是觉得开始赞同你的想法了。我觉得这不算是作弊。它谈不上“天才之举”，而且在有些大学，这样做真的会让你被扫地出门。但我认为你的作法确实没有伤害到别人，除非你因此取得了不公平的利益，或拿到了不配得的奖励。
I look at it like this: You were essentially asked two questions that shared a common answer. The fact that you could see commonalities between unrelated intellectual disciplines is a point in your favor. Some might call your actions self-plagiarism, but the very premise of stealing your own creative property is absurd. You’re not betraying the public’s trust. It seems strange only because the assignments involve a degree of creativity. If this had been a multiple-choice physics test you failed to study for — yet were still able to pass, based on knowledge you acquired from an applied-math class taken the previous semester — no one would question your veracity.
我是这样看待这个问题的：你事实上是在面对两个问题时给出了同样的解答。你能从两个并无关联的学科上发现共通之处，这是你的优势。有些人也许会称你的举动是自我剽窃，但窃取你本人的创意作品，这种想法的前提就很荒谬。你并没有背弃公众的信任。它看起来之所以奇怪，只是因为你完成的作业涉及到某种程度上的创造力。如果换成是参加一场你没有好好学习的物理考试，考题全部是双选题——凭借着你从上学期应用数学课上获取的知识，你仍然有能力通过考试——没人会因此质疑你的诚实。
It’s possible to argue that you were “cheating yourself” and wasting your own academic experience — but that’s not an ethical crossroads. That’s more of an existential dilemma over the purpose of a college education that (in all probability) you paid for. In the abstract, the notion of using the same paper twice feels wrong — and if you contacted your old school and told them this anecdote, it would most likely cite some rule of conduct you unknowingly broke. But fuzzy personal feelings and institutional rules do not dictate ethics. You fulfilled both assignments with your own work. You’re a clever, lazy person.
我可以这么说，你是“欺骗了自己”，浪费了你自己的学术体验——但这并不是道德的十字路口。它更有可能关乎大学教育意义的生存困境，而且进大学的钱想必是你自己出的。从理论上说，一篇论文作两次用，这让人觉得不对——而且如果你联系了母校，告诉他们自己过去所为，校方很有可能援引某条你无意中违反的行为准则。但模糊的个人感受与高校规则并不意味着道德规范。你用一篇自行完成的论文满足了两门课的课业要求。你是个聪明的懒人。