On Oct. 12 or Oct. 13, 1961, Paul McCartney and John Lennon visited the Hôtel de Beaune in Paris, near the Seine, to have their hair cut by a friend. Mark Lewisohn, billed on his book jacket as “the world’s only professional Beatles historian,” may know more about this seminal pop-cultural event than anyone else on the planet, including Mr. McCartney. The budding Beatle might have been too caught up in the moment to remember its exact details. Mr. Lewisohn has had some 50 years to parse them.
1961年10月12日或10月13日，保罗·麦卡特尼(Paul McCartney)与约翰·列侬(John Lennon)来到巴黎塞纳河畔的伯恩酒店，让一个朋友帮他们理发。对于这桩影响深远的流行文化事件，马克·路易松(Mark Lewisohn)——在他的著作封套上，他被称为“世界上唯一的专业披头士史学家”——所知道的可能比这个星球上任何人都要多，包括麦卡特尼本人。在那个时刻，这位当年还是崭露头角的披头士可能过于心醉神迷，没法记住准确的细节，路易松却有50年的时间去研究、分析它们。
In “Tune In,” the first installment of a projected three-volume history of the Beatles, Mr. Lewisohn describes how Jürgen Vollmer, a photographer then friendly with the Nerk Twins, as those two Beatles sometimes called themselves, obliged their wish to look less Liverpudlian and more Left Bank bohemian. So he cut Mr. McCartney’s hair first into what Mr. Vollmer called a Caesar style and what the guy on the other end of the scissors called “a kind of longhaired Hitler thing.” It looked better when it grew in.
《调谐》(Tune In)是计划中的“披头士”(Beatles)三卷本历史的第一部。这两位披头士时而以“怪胎双生子”自称，摄影师约根·沃尔默(Jürgen Vollmer)是他们的好友，路易松在书中描述了他这如何应两位披头士的要求，让他们看上去不那么像利物浦人，而是更像巴黎左岸的波西米亚艺术家。于是沃尔默先是把麦卡特尼的头发剪成其所谓的凯撒式发型，而剪刀下的麦卡特尼则说“有点像长发的希特勒”。等头发再长一点，看上去就好多了。
Cuttings from both Beatles’ hair were stashed under the bed; their present-day eBay value is incalculable. The next morning the hotel concierge found the mess and was furious. “She would not be the last to scream over the Beatles’ hair,” Mr. Lewisohn writes.
从两位披头士头上剪下来的头发被储存在床底下，如今它们在eBay上的价值难以估量。翌日，酒店门房看到屋里乱七八糟，不禁大为光火。“她不是最后一个对着披头士们的头发尖叫的人，”路易松写道。
And Mr. Lewisohn is not the first to describe that screaming. But he is the most scholarly and painstaking, and he is the most serious historian to have examined the Beatles’ lives and work. The results can be dubious at times, when the minutiae becomes too microscopic or when he assumes that what he has not uncovered cannot be known. As for romantic entanglements, for instance, during that same Paris sojourn, Mr. Lewisohn writes about Lennon, “It isn’t known if he and Paul got l’amour in Paris.” It probably is known to Mr. McCartney, who has cooperated with Mr. Lewisohn on many of his other Beatles projects. But Sir Paul stayed mum on this one.
而路易松也不是第一个描写这种尖叫的人，但他是最学术、最辛勤的一个，他也是研究“披头士”生活与工作的最严肃的史学家。当各种细枝末节太过详细具体，或者当他断定自己没有发现的事实已经不可能得知的时候，这些研究成果也会令人起疑。比如说有关浪漫纠葛的那些事吧，路易松写道，列侬在这次巴黎之旅中“他与保罗有没有风流韵事，如今已不可能知道”。然而麦卡特尼或许是知道的，他曾经参与过路易松其他很多关于“披头士”的作品。不过保罗爵士在这件事上却一直保持缄默。
“Tune In” is liable to be approached slowly and suspiciously. It’s an opening salvo that doesn’t get beyond 1962. This edition, with text that runs 803 pages (lengthy notes and index are extra), turns out to be an abridgment of a two-volume version that was published in Britain and is nearly twice as long. And much more expensive. (That version is available by mail order from Britain; it hasn’t come out in the United States.) The most eager readers have little choice but to tackle both versions, a maddening battle plan. And this abridgment could have been short enough to be more approachable. But it is not: Mr. Lewisohn’s sometimes arrogant emphasis on research trumps his desire to make “Tune In” reader-friendly.
《调谐》可能会让读者心怀疑虑，很慢才进入状态。它是一篇序章，只写到1962年。这里的简写本正文有803页（后面还附有冗长的注释和索引），在英国出版的完全本有上下两卷，长度近乎它的一倍。价格也更加昂贵（这个版本尚未在美国出版，可以从英国邮购）。最热心的读者别无选择，只能把两个版本都攻克下来，这可是一场让人发疯的大战役。这个简写本来应该短到足够好读。但却并非如此。路易松有时候傲慢地强调研究工作，这战胜了他让《调谐》好读一点的愿望。
Still, the intrepid reader who enters the portals of “Tune In” is probably in the presence of slow-gestating greatness. The finished history promises to have monumental stature, and this warm-up may turn out to be its most revealing installment. Mr. Lewisohn executes the difficult trick of introducing five major characters — John, Paul, George, Ringo and Liverpool — and patiently establishing each before their paths cross. It is invaluable to view each band member as a separate individual, as in the case of Richy Starkey, a.k.a. Ringo Starr, who is the brashest, sexiest and sickliest of the four before he becomes a Beatle, three-quarters of the way into “Tune In.” It’s also eye-opening to read Mr. Lewisohn’s revisionist versions of the most widely propagated myths about band members’ early years, especially when it comes to Lennon’s romanticizing of his mother.
然而，勇敢地走进《调谐》大门的读者或许可以看到一幅缓慢展开的宏伟画卷。最终完成的史书有望享有不朽的声誉，而这部热身的序篇或许会成为其中最有启示性的部分。路易松使用复杂困难的技巧，推出书中的五个重要角色——约翰、保罗、乔治、林戈与利物浦——并在他们的人生道路彼此交汇之前，耐心地为每个角色做了铺垫。以独立个体的角度出发去看待每个乐队成员，这一点十分难能可贵——特别是在全书3/4处才进入《调谐》的里奇·斯塔基(Richy Starkey)，也就是林戈·斯塔(Ringo Starr)，在成为“披头士”之前，他是四人当中最大胆、最性感，也是最体弱多病的一个。而读到路易松如何修正关于乐队成员早年生活中那些最为广泛传播的神话，也令人大开眼界，特别是列侬对母亲的浪漫化那部分。
“Tune In” pays close attention to the many American influences on the young pre-Beatles. (Was Lennon’s early group the Quarry Men or Quarrymen? Of course Mr. Lewisohn has a footnote for that.) They hit adolescence just as rock ’n’ roll records became buyable, and “Tune In” keenly chronicles the favorites that they would draw on or recycle, even for their name: Beatles was a play on Buddy Holly’s Crickets, simple as that. And he astutely points out that they had to experience their own versions of Beatlemania to inspire it later: Holly and Elvis Presley drove them wild.
《调谐》极其重视那些对年轻的未来披头士们产生影响的美国源头（列侬早期的乐队名叫“Quarry Men”还是“Quarrymen”？对此路易松自然做出了说明）。他们步入青春期时，正赶上摇滚乐唱片到处可以买到的时代，《调谐》敏锐地记录了他们可能会利用，或是重复利用的心爱元素，甚至他们的名字“披头士”也是对巴迪·霍利(Buddy Holly)的蟋蟀乐队(Crickets)的戏仿，就是这么简单。他还明智地指出，他们也经历过自己的追星时期，才能引发后来的“披头士狂热”：霍利和埃尔维斯·普莱斯利(Elvis Presley)曾令他们疯狂。
George Harrison never forgot the sight of Eddie Cochran at a live show, brushing back his hairdo and murmuring “Hi, honey” to an adoring fan. Mr. Starr, after seeing Johnny Ray dropping postcard photos of himself out a hotel window, knew this was the life for him. If there is one overall point that “Tune In” makes emphatically, it’s that the Beatles didn’t happen by magic. They envisioned a highly original goal and then fought toward it, every step of the way.
乔治·哈里森(George Harrison)永远不能忘记在现场看到艾迪·科克伦(Eddie Cochran)把头发向后一拂，对一个崇拜他的歌迷说：“嘿，亲爱的”时的样子。斯塔看到约翰尼·雷(Johnny Ray)把印有自己照片的明信片从酒店窗口抛撒下来，就明白这正是他想要的生活。如果说《调谐》有一个总体主旨的话，那就是“披头士”的出现并非魔法。他们展望到一个极为独特的目标，然后就一步一个脚印地向着这个目标奋斗。
Once readers get over the hump of tuning in to “Tune In” and accepting that it must be read at a very leisurely pace, Mr. Lewisohn’s nuances can be fully appreciated. He captures the internecine struggles and bonds that were so important to forming the band’s winning formula. There is much illuminating biographical material on both Brian Epstein and George Martin and keen insight into why they became essential to the Beatles’ success.
读者一旦克服难关，适应了《调谐》，开始以从容不迫的节奏阅读这本书，就可以充分欣赏路易松的细微独特之处。他捕捉到乐队成功过程中那些两败俱伤的斗争以及重要的联系。书中有大量富于启发性的素材取自布莱恩·爱泼斯坦(Brian Epstein)和乔治·马丁(George Martin)的传记，敏锐地揭示出他们何以在“披头士”的成功中不可或缺。
Then there are the extra Beatles, about whom much misleading information exists. These were teenage boys, after all, and they had friendships and rivalries. Mr. Lewisohn provides an in-depth explanation of why the bassist Stu Sutcliffe brought out Mr. McCartney’s possessiveness about Lennon, though Sutcliffe’s girlfriend, Astrid Kirchherr, had a strong influence on the band’s early look. As for Pete Best, the drummer who is one of many contenders for the moniker Fifth Beatle, Mr. Lewisohn treats him harshly. The book presents detailed evidence that he was recruited in desperation when the band needed a drummer for its stint in Germany and dismissed for two good reasons: he couldn’t keep a beat, and Mr. Starr was better.
还有“披头士”的编外成员们，关于他们，此前也有大量错误的信息存在。他们毕竟都只是十几岁的男孩子，他们之间既有友谊也有竞争。路易松深刻地阐释了贝斯手斯图·萨克利夫(Stu Sutcliffe)如何激发了麦卡特尼对列侬的占有欲，尽管萨克利夫的女友阿斯特丽德·科尔什赫(Astrid Kirchherr)强烈影响了乐队的早期造型。至于皮特·贝斯特(Pete Best)，这位鼓手也是“第五披头士”这一称号的诸多竞争者之一，路易松对他非常严厉。这本书给出了详细的证据，说明乐队为去德国迫切需要鼓手，所以他才被招募进来；此外开除他也有两个很好的理由：第一，他打不好节奏，第二，斯塔更加出色。
“Tune In,” which starts out as a doorstop and evolves into a rich cornucopia for those with the patience to stay with it, concludes suspensefully on the last night of 1962, with the Beatles on the brink. The text’s last words, from Lennon: “It was just a matter of time before everybody else caught on.” And one last, welcome word on the final page: “Intermission.”
《调谐》一开始如同一块横在门前的门挡，但那些有耐心读下去的人会感觉它渐渐发展为丰饶的宝藏，最后，全书在1962年的最后一个夜晚戛然而止，当时的“披头士”正处在边缘。正文的最后一句话来自列侬：“其他人会明白的，这只是时间问题。”还有就是最后一页上那句令人愉快的话：“幕间休息”。