A pair of pink stiletto heels sprouting hair. Wool bow ties decorated with locks of human hair. Stylish coats made entirely of human hair.
一双粉红色的高跟鞋，上面冒出头发。羊毛领结上装饰着人类的发卷。入时的风衣完全是用人类的头发做的。
Go ahead, say it: Macabre. Creepy. Weird.
大声说出来吧：恐怖。变态。诡异。
The organizers of the exhibition HAIR!, at the Centraal Museum in Utrecht, were aware from the very beginning that there is something viscerally off-putting about using human hair as a material for art or design, especially when it ends up close to our skins. But they wanted to explore that response, and ask: Why?
这个名叫“头发！”(HAIR!)的展览在乌得勒支的中央博物馆举行，组织者们从一开始就明白，使用头发作为艺术或设计的质材会激起某种发自内心的厌恶，特别是当它靠近我们的皮肤的时候。但他们想探索这种反应，并且发问：为什么？
“Something happens when hair gets separated from the body,” said Harm Rensink, one of the designers of the exhibition, which runs until May 29. “At the moment you don’t think of it as part of the body anymore, this itchy feeling arrives. It makes you want to look, but it makes you also not want to look.”
“当头发与身体分离时发生了某些事情，”展览的设计师之一哈姆·伦辛克(Harm Rensink)说，该展览将持续到5月29日。“一旦你不再把它视为身体的一部分，那种刺激的感觉就来了。它会让你忍不住想看，但又让你不想看。”
Several years ago, Ninke Bloemberg, a fashion curator at the Centraal Museum, became fascinated with the common practice in the 19th century of collecting locks of a beloved’s hair and asking a jeweler to fashion it into decorative jewelry, worn against the skin. The museum has a collection of such pieces.
几年前，中央博物馆的时尚策展人宁克·布罗姆伯格(Ninke Bloemberg)迷上了19世纪收集恋人头发，嵌入珠宝，贴身佩戴的习俗。博物馆就收集了若干这样的物品。
“When you talk to people who are not familiar with that tradition, they always say, ‘Ewww,”’ Ms. Bloemberg said. “I’m so intrigued by that idea that you wear hair of someone else on your skin.” And she was intrigued to find out if that tradition had continued in any form: “What is the status of hair at this point?”
“当你和不了解这种传统的人谈起这件事的时候，他们总会说，‘哇’，”布罗姆伯格女士说。“我觉得贴身佩戴别人头发这个主意非常有意思。”她还很想找出这种习俗在如今以何种形式延续：“头发在当代处于什么样的地位？”
Ms. Bloemberg (who has long brown hair and bangs) began to research the subject of hair as an artistic material several years ago, and when she had gathered a fair amount of evidence that hair was indeed a material that contemporary artists were still exploring, she planned an exhibition. She enlisted the help of two exhibition designers, Niek Pulles (who has shoulder-length hair and a beard) and Harm Rensink (who has very short platinum blond hair), to create a dynamic flow of hair through 1,000 square meters of exhibition space.
几年前，布罗姆伯格女士（她留着一头长长的棕色头发，额前有刘海），开始研究头发作为艺术品原料这个课题，后来她收集到大量证据，表明头发确实也是当代艺术家仍在使用的素材，于是便筹备了这个展览。她请了两位展览设计师帮忙——留着齐肩长发和山羊胡的尼克·普勒斯(Niek Pulles)与留着淡金色短发的哈姆·伦辛克，他们合作布置了这个占地1000平米，充满活力的展览空间，全部是关于头发。
“At first we wanted to focus on the repellent aspects of hair,” Ms. Bloemberg said, “but we thought people will bring that into the exhibition with them already. So in the end, the things we chose are all pretty attractive.”
“我们一开始想关注头发令人厌恶的一面，”布罗姆伯格女士说，“但我们觉得人们来看展览时已经抱有这种态度了，所以最后我们选择的展品都是很可爱的。”
The visual allure of some of the pieces, such as an elegant latticed leaf made entirely of human hair or a wood hairbrush whose bristles have been replaced with lush blond hair, can make a visitor question his or her own natural aversion. Works by other artists seem to propose hair as an untapped renewable resource, exploring how it can be employed to create something both beautiful and functional.
有些展品的视觉魅力的确会令观者质疑自己本能的反感，比如一枚优雅的、布满格纹的叶片，完全是用人类的头发做成的；还有一只木头发刷，它的刷毛换成了丰满的人类金发。其他艺术家的作品似乎把头发视为一种尚未开发的可再生资源，探索如何用它来制成美观实用的物品。
For its project “Hair Highway” (2014), Studio Swine from London combined human hair with natural bio resin to invent a new composite material, from which they made objects and furniture, like a 1920s Shanghai-deco-style vanity, or dressing table, presented here.
在“头发高速公路”(2014)这个项目中，来自伦敦的斯维恩工作室(Studio Swine)把人类的头发与自然树脂结合起来，发明出一种新的合成质材，用来制作各种物品和家具，比如展览中展出的一件20世纪20年代上海装饰风格的化妆台。
The artists, who collaborated with Pearl Lam Gallery in Hong Kong, use hair from China, noting in a project description that “Asian hair grows particularly quickly, up to 16 times faster than hardwood mahogany. It’s also very strong — a full head of hair can take the weight of two African elephants.”
艺术家们与香港的艺术门画廊(Pearl Lam Gallery)合作，使用来自中国的头发完成了这件作品，项目说明中，他们指出：“亚洲人的头发生长得特别快，比红木的生长快16倍。它也非常强韧，一个人的头发可以承载两头非洲象的的重量。”
The Dutch fashion and textile designer Anouk van Klaveren created an interactive performance piece, originally staged at the Salone del Mobile in Milan, in which she cut visitors’ hair and added it to a bow tie made of wool to create a “personal bow tie.” The production process was designed to mimic a factory assembly line.
荷兰时尚与织物设计师阿努克·范·克拉韦伦(Anouk van Klaveren)制作了一件互动展品，原本是在米兰的家居设计周展出的。她剪下参观者的头发，把它织入羊毛领结里，制造“个性化领结”。这个作品是为了讽刺工厂生产线生产。
“By combining the wool and human hair in one product, I try to make people aware of the fact that wool is also just hair, but people see it in a completely different way,” she explained while installing the work in the gallery. “There’s always something funny to people about using human hair, but wool is just a product to us.” She added, “Mass production is normal to us, but if you use human products people think about it very differently.”
“在一件作品里把羊毛和人发结合起来，我是想让人们注意到，羊毛也是一种头发，但人们用完全不同的视角来看待它，”她在画廊布展时说。“使用人类头发总会让人觉得别扭，但羊毛对于我们来说却只是一种物品。”她补充说，“很多物品对我们来说都是司空见惯的，但如果你使用人类身上的物品，人们就会觉得非常不一样。”
Although there is a fashion element to the exhibition — one of the seven gallery spaces is devoted to hair in fashion — it is not a show about hairstyles. Where it does deal with hair still attached to someone’s head, it tends to focus on the crafting of hair into a design element, or hair’s role in the exploration of identities.
尽管展览中也有时尚元素——七个展览空间中，有一个是专门展览“时尚中的头发”——但却不是关于发型的展览。不过它确实是关于仍然连在人体上的头发，主要关注如何把头发融入设计元素，或者头发在身份认同探索中的位置。
Almost half of the fashion room focuses on the tremendous range of the New York-based Dutch hair stylist Christiaan Houtenbos, who created many famous looks, including the singer Grace Jones’s signature flat-top hairstyle. The curators also put on display the styling kit that Mr. Houtenbos took to China to style Nancy Kissinger’s hair when she accompanied her husband, the former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, in 1979.
时尚展厅中有将近一半展品是来自现居纽约的荷兰发型师克里斯蒂安·豪腾伯斯(Christiaan Houtenbos)的各色创作，他做过许多著名的造型，包括歌手格蕾丝·琼斯(Grace Jones)标志性的平顶发型。策展人还展示了1979年南希·基辛格(Nancy Kissinger)陪同丈夫、前国务卿亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)访华时，豪腾伯斯带往中国、为她打造发型的一套工具。
In the same exhibition room are three family portraits by the Dutch artist Levi van Veluw from his series “Natural Transfers,” in which he and his mother and sister are photographed from the shoulders up, their faces obscured by hair stuck to all the contours of the face. “If you look at it as a viewer, you see three portraits and think they are all the same person,” Mr. Rensink said. “But in the end he tricks you, because they are all different people.”
同一个展室内还有荷兰艺术家利维·范·韦卢(Levi van Veluw)拍摄的三幅家族合照，选自他的“自然的转移”(Natural Transfers)系列作品，照片是他的母亲和姊妹的半身像，她们的面孔被头发遮挡着，掩盖了面孔上的全部轮廓。“以观者的视角，你会觉得这三幅照片上都是同一个人，”伦辛克说。“但是最后表明，他欺骗了你，因为她们其实是不一样的人。”
Some artists use single hairs as a line or thread to make intimate embroideries. For example, the Japanese-American artist Masako Takahashi, based in San Francisco, threaded strands of her own floor-length hair through a needle to stitch a diary into a Japanese silk scroll. The full scroll, about 12 meters long, will be exhibited in a narrow hallway of the exhibition. But it won’t be possible to read the words, because it is written in a made-up language only she knows.
有些艺术家使用头发作线，制作精密的刺绣。比如现居旧金山的日裔美国艺术家雅子高桥（Masako Takahashi，音），用她长及地板的头发在在日本丝绸卷轴上绣出日记。整个卷轴长达12米，将在展览中的一个狭长走廊内展出。但是上面的文字是没法阅读的，因为那是她自己编造的语言，只有她自己懂得。
One thing that is not referred to directly in the exhibition is the Nazi’s collection and reuse of human hair, collected before gassing victims, for example, at the Auschwitz concentration camp and sold to German companies to make household products.
还有一种物品，在展览上并未直接提及，那就是纳粹对人发的收集和使用，比如说，他们从奥斯维辛集中营收集被毒气毒死者的头发，卖给德国公司，制成日用品。
“Everybody thinks about it, at some point when they see all this hair collected,” said Mr. Pulles, one of the exhibition designers. “That’s also why we made the exhibition have a darker element as well. But we wanted to also keep the frivolity and the lightness in the show, too, so it’s very dynamic.”
“在某种程度上，所有人一看到这些头发收藏品，都会想起这件事，”展览设计师之一普勒斯说。“这也是我们这个展览的阴暗面之一。但我们希望保持展览轻松欢快的一面，让它充满活力。”
The Serbian artist Zoran Todorovic seems to make an oblique reference to World War II in his piece “Warmth,” which was originally created for the 2009 Venice Art Biennale. He collected hair from 288,000 individuals at salons, military barracks and jails across Serbia, and had the hair felted into blankets that look like gray wool. The artist also videotaped the process of collecting the hair.
西伯利亚艺术家佐伦·托多罗维奇(Zoran Todorovic)的作品《温暖》(Warmth)似乎隐晦地提到了“二战”，这件作品原本是他为2009年威尼斯艺术双年展创作的。他从全西伯利亚的沙龙、军营与监狱收集了来自28.8万人的头发，把它们编成毯子，看上去很像灰色的羊毛毯。这位艺术家还把自己收集头发的过程拍成了录像。
A pallet of the blankets is on exhibit here, and he is offering to sell them to patrons for 100 euros a piece. “Probably hardly anyone will buy those,” Ms. Bloemberg said. “But it’s interesting that they can.”
展览中展出了这样一床毯子，售价100欧元一条。“或许不会有人愿意买的，”布罗姆伯格女士说。“但是他们确实能买，这就变得很有意思了。”