A crucial part of designing a room is figuring out “interesting ways to use your walls,” Ashley Whittaker said. “And mirrors are a wonderful way to do that.”
设计一个房间时，一个最关键的部分就是，想好“如何生动有趣地利用你的墙壁，”阿什莉·惠特克(Ashley Whittaker)说，“而镜子正是实现此目的的一个很棒的选择。”
Ms. Whittaker, 44, an interior designer based in New York, likes to use decorative mirrors in prominent places throughout the homes she works on. “I love a mirror over a fireplace,” she said. “Or on a segmented mirror wall. Or even outdoors, in a covered area.”
44岁的惠特克是一名纽约的室内设计师，她喜欢在自己负责装修的住宅内各个显著位置，运用具有装饰性的镜子。“我喜爱在壁炉上方挂起一面镜子的设计，”她说，“或是一个切割镜面墙。或者，镜子甚至可以出现在户外区域。”
Mirrors, she said, can be as eye-catching as art, but with another advantage: “Adding a mirror is like adding a window to a room. It brings in light and creates more depth.”
她说，镜子可以同艺术品一样吸引眼球，而它更有另一层好处：“在一间屋内加一面镜子，就好比添了一扇窗户。它会将光线引进来，并且增加空间的深度。”
At Treillage on the Upper East Side, Ms. Whittaker admired the Starlight mirror by the designer Bunny Williams, one of the store’s owners. The four-foot-wide frame of crisscrossing silver-brushed metal “provides so much visual interest,” she said. “I could see this hanging over a sofa with a pair of sconces.”
在上东区(Upper East Side)的Treillage店内，惠特克欣赏着此店老板之一兼设计师伯尼·威廉姆斯(Bunny Williams)的作品——星光镜(Starlight mirror)。其十字交叉状的银拉丝工艺金属框架有4英尺（约合1.2米）宽，“具有很强的视觉趣味，”她说，“我可以想象将这面镜子与一对壁式烛台一起挂在一座沙发上方的样子。”
A few blocks away, at Mecox, she pointed out another impressively sized option: Iron Orbit, a four-foot-diameter circle of gilded-iron branches with a convex mirror at the center.
几个街区之外，在Mecox店里，她又挑出另一面尺寸颇为可观的铁轨道(Iron Orbit)镜。其周边一圈由镀金铁制分支组成的边框直径为4英尺（约合1.2米），中央是一块凸面镜。
“The convex mirror gives you a wide angle on the room,” Ms. Whittaker said. “It can make a space feel twice as big.”
“凸面镜让你通过一个广角来看这个房间，”惠特克说，“它能令一处空间感觉上有它两倍那么大。”
Around the corner at Creel and Gow, she found more convex mirrors, but these were small enough to sit on a desk. Mounted on black metal stands, they could be part of a desktop vignette with other objects of interest, she suggested.
经过一个拐角，就是Creel and Gow的店面。她在那里找到了更多凸面镜，不过它们更加小巧，可以直接摆在书桌台面上。它们带有黑色的金属支架，这样就可以同其它有趣的物件一起构成一处桌面装饰区。她这样建议。
At Jonathan Adler, she admired the orange lacquer Queen Anne mirror for its “modern take on a historical shape,” she said. “The color is punchy; it would be great in a kid’s room — or a bar.”
在乔纳森·阿德勒（Jonathan Adler，纽约室内与家具设计师——译注）的店内，她很欣赏那面橘色漆面的安妮皇后(Queen Anne)镜，因为它的“现代风格又具备一种古老的形状，”她说，“它的颜色很有冲击力；放在一间儿童房里应该很不错——或者一间酒吧。”
But Rain Drops, a reissued design by C. Jeré, was the showstopper.
但是C·嘉瑞（C. Jeré，擅长墙面雕塑及家居装饰品的金属制品艺术家——译注）设计的雨滴(Rain Drops)镜，才是她此行最精彩的收获。
“It’s really fun,” she said, admiring the way the antiqued brass disks clustered around the edge of the circular mirror. “It throws light around in so many different ways.”
“它真的很有趣，”惠特克说。她很欣赏古旧风格的铜片紧紧围绕在一面圆镜边缘的这个设计思路。“它能从很多个角度向四周反射光线。”
With so many choices, she said, it’s easy to forget that the style of the mirror isn’t the only thing to consider.
选择如此繁多，她说，就很容易忘记，镜子的风格并不是唯一需要考虑的事。
“The reflection you see,” she added, “is sometimes as important as the mirror itself.” 
“你看见的反射效果，”她补充道，“是和镜子本身同样重要的事。”