PRISONS — those bastions of routine and tradition — are finally ripe for disruption. Such is the rosy conclusion of “Beyond the Bars,” a provocative report from management consultants at Deloitte published earlier this month.
监狱——这些公式化生活和传统的堡垒，终于到了被摧毁的时候。这是德勤(Deloitte)的管理顾问在《越过铁窗》(Beyond the Bars)报告中得出的浪漫结论，这份挑战常规思维的报告发表于3月早些时候。
“Imagine a virtual incarceration system,” the report’s authors write, “that uses advanced risk modeling, geospatial analytics, smartphone technology and principles from the study of human behavior to achieve superior outcomes.”
“想象一个虚拟的监禁系统，”作者在报告中写道，“它使用先进风险建模、地理空间分析、智能手机技术和人类行为研究所得出的原则，取得优异的结果。”
Such gizmos are meant to reduce overcrowding and help manage the spiraling costs of incarceration by allowing offenders to serve their sentences at home. Thanks to the almighty smartphone, offenders can be under the constant gaze of case managers, who will monitor their activities in real time. Welcome to the Panopticon for couch potatoes.
这种系统旨在通过允许罪犯在家服刑来缓解监狱过度拥挤的情况，并控制日益增加的监禁成本。借助功能强大的智能手机，罪犯可以处于案卷管理者的持续监视之下，后者将对他们的活动进行实时监控。欢迎来到沙发土豆(couch potato)们的圆形监狱。
Deloitte’s proposal also taps a favorite Silicon Valley trick — a tactic known as “gamification” — to award the participating offenders with points for not being late for their appointments or never leaving their assigned zone. “A sufficient number of points,” the authors say, “would earn the offender tangible benefits such as additional freedom or extended curfews.”
德勤的提议还利用了最受欢迎的硅谷(Silicon Valley)妙招之一——“游戏化”——如果参与活动的罪犯在约定时间报到，或者不曾离开自己的规定区域，就会得到一定的奖励分数。“足够的积分，”作者说，“将使罪犯获得实际好处，比如更多自由或是较为松弛的宵禁。”
That smartphones allow us to imprison twice the number of people at half the cost is the kind of cutting-edge innovation that only management consultants and tech entrepreneurs would be excited about. Such breakthroughs would be worth celebrating if they didn’t distract us from the more radical (and simpler) solution to the problem of overcrowded prisons: incarcerating fewer people.
如果使用智能手机，我们就能用一半的成本来监禁两倍的人——恐怕只有管理顾问和高科技创业者才会对这种前沿创新感到兴奋。在欢呼此类“突破”之前，我们要意识到，它们转移了我们对真正问题的关注，即解决监狱人满为患的更彻底（也更简单）的办法是减少监禁人数。
Smart technologies are not just disruptive; they can also preserve the status quo. Revolutionary in theory, they are often reactionary in practice.
智能技术不仅具有破坏性，它们也可能维系现状。它们在理论上具有革命性，但在实践中往往起到反动的作用。
Take the recent obsession with self-tracking. From what we eat to how much energy we consume: everything is trackable, not least because our gadgets come equipped with clever sensors. Right now, most of such self-tracking efforts come from the grass-roots enthusiasts. But it won’t take long for governments to start exploring self-tracking as a solution to problems that could, and probably should, be tackled differently.
就拿近年人们对自我跟踪的沉迷来说吧。从我们吃了什么，到我们消耗了多少能量：什么都能够被跟踪，尤其是因为我们的设备配有智能传感器。目前，大多数自我跟踪努力来自基层爱好者。但用不了多久，政府就会开始利用自我跟踪来解决一些本来可以（而且很可能应该）得到不同处理的问题。
Are you not eating enough vegetables? Well, your smartphone will tell you so — never mind that there are none for sale in your neighborhood, and you can’t afford to buy them anyway.
你吃的蔬菜不够多吧？你的智能手机会告诉你，且不提你周围根本买不到，而且你反正也买不起。
By offloading the responsibility for problem solving from governments to citizens, self-tracking can get us to optimize our behavior within the constraints of an existing system. What we need is a chance to reform the system itself — perhaps by dismantling those constraints. Ambitious reforms like regulating the food industry and building the infrastructure needed to get good food to hungry people shouldn’t lose their relevance in the era of universal self-tracking.
自我跟踪把解决问题的责任从政府转移到了公民身上，它使我们得以在当前体系的局限范围内优化我们的行为。而实际上，我们需要的是有机会改革这个体系本身——或许我们需要打破那些局限。监管食品行业、构建饥饿人群获取优质食物所需要的基础设施，这些雄心勃勃的改革措施不应在这个全民自我跟踪的时代被遗忘。
That we now have the means to make the most miserable experiences more tolerable should not be an excuse not to reduce the misery of those experiences.
我们现在有办法让那些最为不快的经历变得更能被忍受，这不应该被当作不去努力减少这些痛苦经历的借口。
Take Chromaroma, a game that uses London’s smart public transportation card to make commutes more fun by awarding points for “checking in” at stations. According to The Guardian, the game is “the makeover London commuting has been waiting for.” But is it, really? As the writer Steven Poole put it, “Actually, the makeover London commuting has been waiting for is a more reliable service, with Tube lines that don’t close every weekend and trains that can hold more than 17 people.”
例如，有款游戏叫做Chromaroma，利用伦敦的智能公交卡使通勤变得更好玩。用户在车站“报到”，就可以获得积分。《卫报》(The Guardian)文章称，这款游戏是“伦敦通勤者一直在等待的美容工程”。但果真如此吗？作者史蒂文·普尔(Steven Poole)接着写道，“其实，伦敦通勤者等待的美容工程是更可靠的服务，地铁不用每个周末都因维修而停运，车厢的额定载客量超过17个人。”
Many trendy technologies can not only hinder needed reforms but actually also entrench social iniquities. Consider the current enthusiasm for Big Data, with its ability to yield powerful insights based on correlations alone. According to one recent tome on the subject, once we fully embrace Big Data, “society will need to shed some of its obsession for causality in exchange for simple correlations: not knowing why but only what.”
许多潮流科技不仅可能妨碍必要的改革，实际上还会固化社会弊病。考虑一下目前人们对于大数据(Big Data)的热情吧。大数据仅仅依据事物间的相互关联，就能得出强大的洞见。最近一本有关大数据的著作写道，一旦我们完全接纳大数据，“社会将需要放弃对于因果关系的一部分迷恋，转而关注简单的关联性：只知道是这样，但不知道为什么。”
But a problem tackled through correlations alone lends itself to a very different set of solutions than a problem mapped out in all its causal complexity.
但是，仅从关联角度出发来处理问题，与通过复杂的因果关系推理来分析问题，产生的解决方案非常不同。
It may help to know that most crimes in a given neighborhood are committed by people who share certain “likes” on Facebook. But to stop there and become suspicious of everyone else who shares the same “likes” would be irresponsible, especially when those “likes” are themselves just proxies for class, race or gender. If criminal behavior does stem from economic inequality or racial discrimination, we need to fix those root causes, not just prevent the damage likely to be caused by people who fit a profile.
在某社区内，多数犯罪者都是在Facebook上有一些共同“爱好”的人。知道这一点或许有用。但是，如果就此停止思考，转而怀疑每个有同样“爱好”的人，那就是不负责任的，尤其是当这些“爱好”属于特定阶层、种族或性别时。如果犯罪行为的根源是经济不平等或种族歧视，我们应该拔除病根，而非仅仅是去防范符合某些条件的人可能会引起的破坏。
Smart technology, thanks to its ubiquity and affordability, offers us the cheapest — and trendiest — fix. But the gleaming aura of disruption-talk that often accompanies such fixes masks their underlying conservatism. Technological innovation does not guarantee political innovation; at times, it might even impede it. The task ahead is to prevent our imagination from being incarcerated by smart technologies. Or should we settle for gamifying ourselves to death?
普遍而价格适中的智能科技，给了我们最便宜最潮流的解决方法。人们也常常给它们戴上光环，称其如何具有颠覆性，但这掩盖了它们的保守本质。技术创新并不能保证政治创新，有时它甚至会妨碍政治创新。我们的任务是防范智能技术束缚我们的想象力。不然难道我们要游戏至死？