When Mimi Vang Olsen is commissioned to paint a portrait of a home and its inhabitants, her goal is not simply to record the color of the walls and the style of the sofa. Her aim is to produce a small, richly textured domestic drama, studded with the tiny but telling details that reveal the true nature of those who call the setting home and the intricate emotional relationships that bind them.
当咪咪·凡·奥尔森(Mimi Vang Olsen)受托为一栋房屋和住在里面的人画一幅画像时，她的目标并不仅仅是记录下墙壁的颜色和沙发的式样。她意在画出一小幅质感丰富的家庭场景，并点缀以许多微小却生动的细节，以此反映出将这些画面称为“家”的那些人，以及将他们维系在一起的复杂情感关系的真实面貌。
To create her meticulously rendered images, Ms. Vang Olsen, a small, ebullient woman in her mid-70s who has created more than 300 such works, starts by paying an extended visit to the home. She takes copious notes and many photographs, originally with a Nikon, now with her digital camera — “snap, snap, snap, maybe 200 pictures, because that’s the information I need for the painting.”
为了一丝不苟地创作好这些受托画作，凡·奥尔森这位年届七旬却依旧精力充沛、已经完成300多幅这类画作的小个子女人，会在一开工就对待画家庭做一次详尽的拜访。她会做大量笔记，并拍摄许多照片。起初用过尼康相机，现在则用的是她的数码相机——“咔嚓、咔嚓、咔嚓，大概要拍200张照片吧，因为那是我画画需要的信息。”
By the time she leaves, she has a strong sense of what the portrait will look like. Back in her studio, in the two-story apartment that she and her husband own on Hudson Street in the West Village, she makes little sketches, then starts drawing in paint on canvas. She can complete a work in a few weeks.
待到离开时，她已经胸有成竹，知道这幅画会是什么样子了。她和丈夫住在西村(West Village)哈德逊街(Hudson Street)的一栋两层公寓里。回到家中的工作室，她就画出几小张素描，然后开始用颜料在帆布上作画。她几周内就能画完一幅作品。
Then comes the unveiling. “Hopefully, the family is aghast with pleasure,” she said. “Sometimes they cry, at least the women do.”
然后就到了揭幕的时刻。“但愿这家人会十分惊喜，”她说，“有时候他们会哭出来，至少女人们会那样做。”
Even decades later, the experience of having one’s home immortalized in oils is often razor-sharp, as it is for Letty Cottin Pogrebin, a founder of Ms. Magazine, whose family was painted by Ms. Vang Olsen in 1976. The portrait shows Ms. Pogrebin, her long golden hair straight as a board, wearing the bell-bottoms that were a virtual uniform of the decade, with her husband, Bertrand, a labor lawyer, and the couple’s three children in their West 67th Street apartment.
这种让家庭在油彩中永生的感觉，即使过了几十年，还常常如刀片般锐利，正如莱蒂·科坦·波格莱宾(Letty Cottin Pogrebin)记忆中的那样。她是《女士杂志》(Ms. Magazine)的创始人，曾经在1976年请凡·奥尔森画过一幅画。这幅画像中，有波格莱宾，留着直板般的金色长发，穿着那个年代的形同制服一样的喇叭裤；还有她的丈夫，劳动法律师贝特朗(Bertrand)；以及和夫妇俩共同住在西67街(West 67th Street)公寓里的三个孩子。
“I remember the day Mimi came,” Ms. Pogrebin said. “She wrote down the names of the books on our shelves. She drew sketches of the herringbone design on the wooden floor. She took snips of our children’s hair.”
"我记得咪咪来的那天，"波格莱宾说，“她记下了我们书架上这些书的名字，又为木地板上的鱼骨形图案画了几张素描，又剪下了孩子们的几缕头发。”
Ms. Pogrebin was especially enamored of the way the figures are arranged, in gently circular fashion, her knee grazing the bench on which her husband sits, his briefcase near her toe. The work hangs above the piano, she said, “and it will never leave that wall.”
波格莱宾特别喜欢这幅画中的人物布局，她的膝盖挨着丈夫坐的凳子，而他的公文包就靠在她的脚指头旁边。这幅画作挂在钢琴上面，她说，“而且它永远不会离开那面墙。”
“It was a time when the children were very busy, very close to us,” Ms. Pogrebin added. “The portrait was a way of stopping time.”
“那是孩子们非常忙碌、也非常亲近我们的一段时光，”波格莱宾补充道，“这幅画像，就是让时光驻留的一种方式。”
That is exactly how the artist describes her work. “The paintings capture a moment in their lives, often when the kids are still kids, before they go off to college,” said Ms. Vang Olsen, who can remember with lapidary detail the back story of every picture. “They show the family intact, the everyday routine.”
那，也正是这位艺术家对她作品的描述。“这些画像捕获了他们生活中的一个瞬间，常常是孩子们还小、尚未进入大学之前的阶段，”凡·奥尔森说，她还能一清二楚地想起每幅画背后的故事。“它们展现出家庭的完整面貌，那是日复一日的生活场景。”
Since creating her first domestic portrait in the early 1970s, Ms. Vang Olsen has painted images of the interiors of many a notable New Yorker, among them Frank Stanton, a former president of CBS; Sheldon Harnick, the lyricist of “Fiddler on the Roof”; and the actor James Gandolfini. As she leafs through folder after folder of still-lustrous color transparencies, annotating each with her memories, these small and intimate worlds come to life.
自从上世纪70年代早期创作了第一幅家庭画像后，凡·奥尔森已经替一个又一个纽约名流之家作画，其中包括哥伦比亚广播公司(CBS)的前总裁弗兰克·斯坦顿(Frank Stanton)，百老汇音乐剧《屋顶上的提琴手》(Fiddler on the roof)的词作者谢尔登·哈尼克(Sheldon Harnick)，还有演员詹姆士·甘多费尼(James Gandolfini)。她翻阅着一叠叠依然鲜艳的彩色原稿，凭借她的记忆对它们一一做出注解，让这些私密的小世界再度鲜活起来。
Here are Gail Bruce, an artist, and her husband, Murray, a movie director, dwarfed by the airiness of their loftlike space atop Westbeth in the West Village, the potted trees that were a fixture of ’70s-era living spaces dotting an expanse of blond wood floor. Here are the immunologist Dr. Robert Good, a former director of Sloan-Kettering, and his wife, Joanne, also an immunologist, he wearing sneakers, she in a long patterned dress.
这位是盖尔·布鲁斯(Gail Bruce)，一位艺术家，还有她的丈夫默里(Murray)，一位电影导演。在西村里的韦斯特贝斯大厦(Westbeth)顶层，他们那套跃层式住宅的宽大空间里，夫妇俩看起来显得格外矮小。那些属于上世纪70年代家居必备装饰的盆景，点缀着一大片金色木地板。这位是免疫学家罗伯特·古德医生，斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心(Sloan Kettering)的前任院长，还有他的妻子，乔安妮(Joanne)，也是一位免疫学家。他穿着一双运动鞋，而她穿了一条花格长裙。
Here are the novelist Rona Jaffe and the editor Phyllis Levy, onetime Radcliffe roommates, in a work presented as a birthday gift to Rona’s father, Sam, who married Phyllis’s mother. From a minute typewriter a sheet of paper unspools with the words, “Happy birthday, Dad.” What most people call the 59th Street Bridge is visible from the window of the couple’s East 60th Street apartment.
这位是小说家罗纳·贾夫(Rona Jaffe)，和她从前在拉德克利夫(Radcliffe)时的室友，编辑菲莉斯·利维(Phyllis Levy)。有她俩现身的这幅画作，是送给罗纳父亲山姆(Sam)的一份生日礼物，他娶了菲莉斯的母亲。一张纸卷从一台速记打字机里伸出来，上面写了几个字：“生日快乐，爸爸。”这对夫妇位于东60街公寓的窗户外面，可以看到那座人称“第59街桥”的天桥。
Ms. Vang Olsen understands the attraction of an embracing domestic setting. Growing up in the West Bronx in the 1940s, she lived with her parents and brother in a cramped two-bedroom walk-up, part of which her father, Kourken Hovsepian, an Armenian refugee, used as a studio for his portrait-photography business.
凡·奥尔森深谙一个温馨的家庭环境所具有的吸引力。她于20世纪40年代在西布朗克斯区(West Bronx)长大，和父母兄弟住在一间没有电梯的双卧室狭小公寓中，家里还有部分地方被她的父亲、亚美尼亚难民库尔肯·霍夫塞皮安(Kourken Hovesepian)辟为了他的人像摄影工作室。
Mr. Hovsepian’s work gave his daughter a passion for the visual arts. As a little girl she used to hand-tint his stark black-and-white images. But a childhood spent in so humble a setting, with a parent scarred by years in a war-ravaged nation, made her yearn for a happier environment.
霍夫塞皮安的工作，让他的女儿对视觉艺术产生了热情。她还是小女孩的时候，就常常帮他给纯黑白图片手工着色。但是在如此卑微的环境下度过童年时光，又有一位在饱受战争摧残的国家多年来过着担惊受怕生活的家长，这些都令她渴望能有一个更愉快的环境。
She got her wish many times over. From September until May Ms. Vang Olsen lives in a sweet town house on the lively section of Hudson Street that was vividly described by Jane Jacobs in her classic “The Death and Life of Great American Cities.” In summer, she and her Danish-born husband, Bent Vang Olsen, a retired apartment renovator, gather with their two grown daughters and two grandsons at a rustic beach house outside Copenhagen.
多年后，她终于实现了自己的愿望。从每年的九月到来年五月，凡·奥尔森都会住在一栋漂亮的联排别墅里。别墅位于哈德逊街(Hudson Street)的繁华地段，那里曾被简·雅各布斯(Jane Jacobs)在她的著作《美国大城市的生与死》(The Death and Life of Great American Cities)中绘生绘色地描述。而在夏天，她就和出生于丹麦的丈夫、退休的公寓维修员本特·凡·奥尔森(Bent Vang Olsen)，以及两个成年的女儿和两名外孙一起，在哥本哈根城外一栋乡村式海滨别墅中相聚。
Ms. Vang Olsen is not at all surprised that she jump-started her career as an artist by painting portraits of other people’s houses. And she makes no apologies for her colorful, folk-art-inflected style — “I’d love to paint like Monet, but I keep adding leaves to the trees” — which reproduces every window, every cornice, every zigzag of the skyline.
凡·奥尔森对她通过为别人家作画的方式，一下子开创了自己的艺术事业，一点也不感到惊讶。她也不会为自己那种艳丽、变化多端的民间艺术风格而表示歉意（“我喜欢像莫奈那样画画，但是我会不断地给树画上叶子”）。这种风格在每扇窗户、每座屋檐、每条曲折的地平线中都得到了重现。
“Growing up in two rooms in the Bronx — the third was my father’s studio — the idea of a larger and nicer living space filled a psychological need,” Ms. Vang Olsen said as she puttered about her pleasantly cluttered front room. “Something drew me to this sort of work. I was painting the house I didn’t have, the family I didn’t have.”
“由于在西布朗克斯区的两居室里长大——第三间房是我父亲的工作室——所以我对更大、更漂亮的住处的向往，就弥补了一种心理需求，”凡·奥尔森一边在布置颇为随意的前厅里四下转悠，一边这样说道，“似乎有种东西，让我受到了这份工作的吸引。我画着并不属于我的房子，和并不属于我的家庭。”
In the early ’80s, struck by how many of her Village neighbors were pet owners, Ms. Vang Olsen decided to shift the focus of her business to portraits of cats and dogs — $2,500 for the first pet and $500 for each additional pet, for an oil of up to 30 by 40 inches — and the sign outside her storefront now identifies her as the Pet Portrait Painter.
在80年代早期，凡·奥尔森突然想到，她有不少西村的邻居都养了宠物，就决定把自己的事业重心转到给猫狗画肖像画上面——画第一只宠物收费2500美元（约合人民币15234元），每增加一只就多收500美元（约合人民币3047元）。这是一张30x40英寸（约合76x102厘米）油画的价格——如今她店门上的文字已将她的身份标明为宠物肖像画师。
She was attracted to the subject partly because she’s so crazy about her own two cats, Fuzzy, a longhaired Norwegian forest, and Wiggles, a calico, but she really regards her pet portraits as another form of house portraiture, or as she puts it, house portraits starring the pet.
她之所以受到这一主题的吸引，部分是由于她极其喜爱自己的两只猫：一只长毛的挪威森林猫“毛球”(Fuzzy)和一只三花猫威格斯(Wiggles)。但她也确实已经将自己的宠物画像当成了另一种形式的家庭肖像画，或正如她所说的，以宠物为主角的家庭肖像画。
“Pets were always in the house portraits, even if they never took center stage,” she said. “And pets are really part of the home. These portraits help you remember your pet, but they also help you remember you and your life at a certain moment.”
“家庭肖像画当中总会出现宠物，哪怕它们从来不处于核心位置，”她说，“而且宠物的确是家庭的一部分。这些画像既让你想起自己的宠物，也让你记起某个阶段时的自己及自己当时的生活。”
Ms. Vang Olsen works all over the world. But the bulk of her subjects are New Yorkers, and even the pet portraits provide indelible images of the city. Many of these urban landscapes function as madeleines of both the New York that is and, joyously and tragically, the New York that was.
凡·奥尔森在世界各地工作。但她的绘画对象大部分是纽约人。即使是宠物肖像画，也会展现出这座城市令人难忘的景象。许多这样的都市风景所起的作用，都让人既看到眼前的纽约，也苦乐掺半地想起纽约的往昔。
A portrait of a shar-pei named Chuchu, her ballet slipper playthings a tip of the hat to an owner who ran the New York City Ballet store at Lincoln Center, shows a skyline that includes the Empire State Building beyond the AstroTurfed terrace of an Upper East Side town house.
一张画像上是一条名叫楚楚(Chuchu)的沙皮狗。她的芭蕾舞鞋玩具，暗示出在林肯中心(Lincoln Center)经营纽约芭蕾商店(New York City Ballet)的主人的身份。这张画中，帝国大厦(Empire State Building)出现在城市天际线上，就在上东区一栋联排别墅的人工草坪之外。
Another Upper East Sider, a turquoise-eyed gray cat named Sasha, is framed by a fancifully assembled cityscape (not every image that Ms. Vang Olsen concocts is perfectly literal) that features the Chrysler Building, the East River, Roosevelt Island and a sliver of Brooklyn.
另一位上东区居民，是一只名叫萨沙(Sasha)的青绿色眼睛的灰猫。它的周围是一片美丽的城市景观（凡·奥尔森的画像并不是每张都绝对写实），其中可以看到克莱斯勒大厦(Chrysler Bulding)、东河(the East River)、罗斯福岛(Roosevelt Island)和布鲁克林区(Brooklyn)的一瞥。
A green-eyed charmer named Lafcadio perches on a window seat in an apartment at 10th Avenue and 17th Street with the pre-gentrified High Line in the background, the rusty old rail structure looming above a sea of weeds and wildflowers. Other skylines are flecked with miniature Statues of Liberty and of course, the World Trade Center, rendered just before it was toppled. “They’re time capsules for the family,” Ms. Vang Olsen said, “and sometimes for the city.”
一只名叫拉夫卡迪奥(Lafcadio)的绿眼小可爱，栖身于公寓靠窗的一张座椅上。这栋公寓位于第10大道与第17大街之间，背后就是改造前的高线公园(High Line)，一条生了锈的旧铁轨压住一片杂草和野花。而在其它城市景观里，点缀着迷你的自由女神雕像(Statues of Liberty)，当然，还有世贸中心(World Trade Center)，画的正是它倒塌前的样子。“这些风景就像是时间胶囊，对于那些家庭是如此，”凡·奥尔森说，“而对于纽约城，有时也同样。”
Ms. Vang Olsen remains in touch with the subjects of many of her domestic portraits. She knows who has died, whose children are grown and have children of their own. Once, after a divorce, the wife sent back the portrait. The subjects had parted ways, and she simply didn’t want the work around anymore. The work is now stashed in one of Ms. Vang Olsen’s closets .
凡·奥尔森与她的家庭肖像画中的很多主人公都保持着联系。她知道谁已经去世了，谁的孩子们都长大了，并且有了自己的孩子。曾经有一次，一对夫妻离婚之后，妻子把这幅画送了回来。画上的人已经分道扬镳，所以她不想再把画留在身边了。这幅作品如今便收藏在凡·奥尔森的一个柜子里面。