America, we have a problem.
美国，我们出问题了。
Our educational system is not keeping up with that of many other industrialized countries, even as the job market becomes more global and international competition for jobs becomes steeper.
在就业市场变得更加全球化，国际就业竞争更加激烈的情况下，我们的教育体系却未能与其他工业化国家保持相同水平。
We have gone from the leader to a laggard.
我们已经从领跑者变成了落后者。
According to the Broad Foundation, an educational reform group, “American students rank 25th in math, 17th in science and 14th in reading compared to students in 27 industrialized countries.”
根据研究教育改革的布罗德基金会(the Broad Foundation)的信息，“在27个工业化国家中，美国学生的数学排名第25位，自然科学第17位，阅读第14位。”
And we have gone from No. 1 in high school graduation to 22nd among industrialized countries, according to a report last year by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
根据经济合作与发展组织（the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development，简称经合组织）去年的报告，在工业化国家中，我们的高中毕业率已从首位下滑至第22位。
That same report found that fewer than half of our students finished college. This ranked us 14th among O.E.C.D. countries, below the O.E.C.D. average. In 1995 we were among the Top 5.
该报告同时发现我们仅有不到一半的学生完成本科学习，低于经合组织平均水平，位列成员国第14名。而在1995年，我们可是位列前五名的。
Some rightly point to the high levels of poverty in our public schools to adjust for our lagging performance, but poverty — and affluence — can’t explain all the results away.
有些人指出公立学校经费严重不足造成了如此落后表现，没错，但穷富不能说明所有的问题。
As Amanda Ripley, an investigative journalist, explains in her new book, “The Smartest Kids in the World and How They Got That Way,” American students are not performing at the same level of their peers internationally.
正如调查记者阿曼达·里普利(Amanda Ripley)在她的新书《世界上最聪明的孩子何以沦落至此》(The Smartest Kids in the World and How They Got That Way) 中所写的，美国学生的表现和其他国家的同龄人不在一个层次上。
She writes: “American kids are better off, on average, than the typical child in Japan, New Zealand, or South Korea, yet they knew far less math than those children. Our most privileged teenagers had highly educated parents and attended the richest school in the world, yet they ranked 18th in math compared to their privileged peers around the world, scoring well below affluent kinds in New Zealand, Belgium, France and Korea, among other places. The typical child in Beverly Hills performed below average, compared to all kids in Canada.”
她又写道：“总的来说，美国孩子的生活条件比日本、新西兰或韩国的孩子更好，但他们在数学上却比不过那些孩子。我们条件最优越的青少年有受过高等教育的父母，上的也是世界上最有钱的学校，但他们的数学成绩在世界各国同等境况的同龄人中，仅排第18名，远低于新西兰、比利时、法国与韩国等国家富裕家庭的学生。贝弗利山庄生活的典型小孩的表现就低于加拿大所有孩子的平均水平。
A report this month by the company that administers ACT, the college admissions test, found that only a fourth of those tested were ready for college. And that was among motivated students who want to go to college, from all sorts of schools, not just public school students.
负责组织大学入学考试（the college admission test，简称ACT）的机构本月发布的报告显示，仅有四分之一的考生合格，为进入大学做好了准备。这些考生可不仅仅是公立学校的学生，他们来自各类学校，而且都立志上大学。
Any way you slice it, we’re not where we want or need to be.
无论你怎么分析，我们目前就是不在我们想要或需要处于的位置。
One strategy of changing our direction as a nation is the adoption of Common Core State Standards, meant to teach children the skills they need to be successful in college and careers — skills like critical thinking and deep analysis.
作为一个国家，我们要改变走向，一个策略就是采用各州共同核心标准(Common Core State Standards)，就是向孩子们教授在大学和未来职场中获得成功所需的技巧——比如批判性思考能力和深入分析能力。
These are things that Americans recognize that our schools need to teach. According to a Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll released Wednesday, 80 percent of Americans strongly agree that schools should teach critical thinking skills, 78 percent agree that they should teach communication skills, 57 percent agree that they should teach students how to collaborate and 51 percent believe that they should help build student’s character.
这些也是美国人民认为学校需要教授的内容。根据周三发布的菲德塔卡帕和盖洛普联合民调(Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll)，80%的美国人强烈认为，学校应教授批判性思考技巧，78%的人同意教授沟通技巧，57%的人同意教授学生如何进行合作，51%的人认为学校应该帮助学生磨练意志。
The Obama administration strongly supports the Common Core, and the American Federation of Teachers endorses it. The president of the United Federation of Teachers says that most teachers agree it should be implemented. And, according to CoreStandands.org, “45 states, the District of Columbia, four territories and the Department of Defense Education Activities have adopted the Common Core State Standards.”
奥巴马政府大力支持“共同核心”，美国教师联盟(the American Federation of Teachers)也赞同该标准。教师联合会(United Federation of Teachers)的主席表示，多数教师都认为应该采用该标准。根据核心标准网站(CoreStandands.org)，“45个州，哥伦比亚特区，4个海外领地和美国国防部教育处(the Department of Defense Education Activities)都采纳了各州共同核心标准。”
This seemed like a sure thing. The problem is that, in some states, Common Core testing has been implemented before teachers, or the public for that matter, have been instructed in how to teach students using the new standards.
看上去是板上钉钉。但问题是，有些州在向教师（乃至公众）提供指导之前，就先实施了共同核心测试。
This means that, when students score poorly on the more rigorous Common Core-based tests, it threatens to cause a backlash among parents, who increasingly see testing as the problem, not the solution.
也就是说学生在根据共同核心标准制定的更为严格的测试中得分很低，而这可能引起父母的激烈反应，他们越来越把测试视为问题，而不是解决办法。
That Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll also found that most Americans had not heard of the Common Core. Only 22 percent thought increased testing helped school performance, and most rejected the use of student test scores to evaluate teachers.
同一民意调查显示，多数美国人没有听说过共同核心。仅有22%的人认为增加测试能够帮助学校提高水平，而且多数人反对根据学生测试结果来对教师进行评估。
Because we insist on prioritizing testing over teaching — punishments over preparation — we run the risk of turning Americans off one of the few educational strategies in recent memory that most people say we need.
我们会因为坚持测试重于教学——惩罚重于准备——而可能引来美国人民的反对，即使这是近期为数不多的策略之一，即使大多数人都认为这个教育策略势在必行。
That’s so American.
这就是典型的美国式思维。
We have to decide as a country — politicians and parents, corporations and communities — that high-performance education is not only valuable to our sense of self, but essential to our future prosperity. Today’s students are tomorrow’s workers and leaders and innovators and entrepreneurs.
我们，作为一个国家——政治家和家长，企业和社区——必须认识到，高水平教育不仅对于我们的自我评价很重要，而且是保证繁荣未来的关键。今日的学生就是明日的劳动者、领导、创新者和企业家。
In all the discussions I have with educational leaders and reformers on improving our educational outcomes, there seems to be some level of agreement — though obviously not full agreement — on strategies that work: attracting, supporting and keeping the best teachers and investing in their development; providing “wrap-around” services for poor and struggling students; making schools safe, welcoming, fun places with recess and art and music and nutritious food; and strongly promoting parental engagement.
在我与教育领导者和改革者关于提高教育水平的探讨中，在有效策略上达成了某种一致——虽然明显不是完全一致。这些策略包括：吸引、支持和留住最好的教师，并为他们不断提高水平提供资金；为贫困和学习有困难的学生提供“一条龙”服务；让学校成为安全、温馨、有趣的场所，有休息空间、有艺术、音乐，还有营养丰富的食物；加强父母的参与。
And we need a national standard for what the kind of education that we want our children to receive. Our educational system has become so tangled in experiments and exams and excuses that we’ve drifted away from the basis of what makes education great: learning to think critically and solve problems.
对于我们希望孩子接受到的教育，需要一个全国性的标准。我们的教育体系在各种试验、考试和借口之中挣扎，已偏离了教育之根本：学习如何批判性地思考问题并解决问题。
We have drifted away from the fundamentals of what makes a great teacher: the ability to light a fire in a child, to develop in him or her a level of intellectual curiosity, the grit to persevere and the capacity to expand. Great teachers help to activate a small thing that breeds great minds: thirst.
我们也偏离了优秀教师的本份：点燃孩子内心的火种，培养他们对于知识的好奇心、坚忍不拔的意志和不断提高的能力。真正的好老师会去激发那孕育出伟大智慧的一个细小品质：渴求。
The Common Core is meant to help bolster those forms of learning and teaching.
而“共同标准”就是要帮助强化这样的教与学。
The Common Core is for the common good, if only we can get our act together and properly implement it.
如果我们能做好自己的工作，合理实施，那么“共同核心”就能让我们共同受益。