STUTTGART, Germany — After years of relative inaction, German prosecutors have opened dozens of fresh investigations of men and women suspected of having served as Nazi death camp guards, racing against the clock to bring the aging suspects to justice. Not since the end of World War II have so many cases been initiated at once.
德国斯图加特——在多年相对的沉寂之后，德国检察官展开了几十宗新调查。调查对象是那些涉嫌在纳粹死亡集中营担任过守卫的人，争取尽快将渐渐老去的嫌犯绳之以法。自二战结束以来，还没有出现同时起诉这么多名嫌犯的情况。
The surge of cases is being driven by a new generation of prosecutors — the “grandchildren generation,” as they are known here — who bring a less conflicted view of culpability to crimes committed during the war and who were given a legal opening with the 2011 conviction of John Demjanjuk, a former guard at the Sobibor death camp who spent years as an Ohio autoworker.
随着新一代检察官（这一代人在这里被称为“孙辈”）的兴起，相关诉讼案件大增，他们对二战期间罪行的罪责存在较少分歧。曾在索比堡死亡集中营担任守卫的约翰·德米扬鲁克(John Demjanjuk)在2011年被判有罪，也给检察官们带来了提起诉讼的机会。德米扬鲁克曾在俄亥俄州担任过多年汽车工人。
The prosecutors are now applying modern advances to historical crimes, like three-dimensional virtual models of camps to demonstrate what guards would have been able to see from their posts, as well as spreadsheets and databases to glean critical evidence from reams of Nazi archival material.
检察官们利用现代技术发展的成果来证明历史罪行，比如通过死亡营的三维虚拟模型来展示守卫执勤期间能够看到的景象，还利用电子表格和数据库从大量的纳粹档案材料中收集关键证据。
Since March alone, prosecutors from Stuttgart to Schwerin and Hamburg to Frankfurt have opened inquiries against men and women suspected of playing a role in the functioning of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, cases that could eventually lead to charges of complicity in the murder of tens of thousands of the more than one million Jews and others who perished there.
从今年3月以来，斯图加特、什未林、汉堡和法兰克福的检查官就开始对涉嫌参与奥斯维辛-比尔克瑙集中营运行的人展开调查。有超过100万犹太人和其他人在该集中营中遇害，这些调查可能会使他们在相关谋杀案件中被控为共犯。
The youngest of the suspects are well into their 80s and have lived freely in Germany for decades. Among them is a woman from Hamburg who is in her 90s and served as a guard at Auschwitz-Birkenau from September to October 1944, prosecutors say. Another is a 93-year-old man who worked as a paramedic at the camp in 1944. He was arrested in March after a search of his home in the northern state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.
最年轻的嫌犯也已有80多岁，他们在德国自由地生活了数十年。检察官表示，一名来自汉堡的年过90的女性，曾于1944年9月至10月在奥斯维辛担任守卫；还有一名93岁的男性曾于1944年在该集中营担任医务辅助人员。今年3月，相关人员搜查了这名男子位于德国北部梅克伦堡-前波美拉尼亚州的住所，并逮捕了他。
The key precedent was provided by the Demjanjuk case, in which a Munich state court convicted the former death camp guard of accessory to the murder of all 28,060 people who died during the time he served there. That ruling overturned a precedent that had required evidence linking suspects to a specific killing, which had stood since 1969.
德米扬鲁克案提供了关键的先例。在德米扬鲁克担任守卫期间，集中营中有28060人被害，慕尼黑的一家州级法庭判决他是谋杀罪行的从犯。这一裁决推翻了过去要求出示证据，证明嫌犯与具体杀害行为有关的先例。该先例从1969年一直维持到了现在。
The judge further found that it was impossible for anyone who worked at Sobibor, a relatively small camp, not to be considered a part of the Nazi’s machinery of mass murder.
法官进一步认定，那些在规模相对较小的索比堡集中营工作过的人，不可能不被视为纳粹大屠杀机器的一部分。
Since then, German federal prosecutors tasked with investigating Nazi war crimes have reopened dozens of files on former guards whose whereabouts had long been known to authorities. The cases steadily trickled through Germany’s decentralized justice system until September, when the federal prosecutors recommended that authorities in 11 of Germany’s 16 states pursue charges against 30 former guards.
此后，负责纳粹战争罪行的德国联邦检察官，重新对官方早已掌握行踪的数十名前守卫展开了调查。德国分散的司法体系一直在缓慢处理这些案件，直到去年9月，联邦检察官建议德国11个州的检察机关对30名前守卫提起诉讼，德国共有16个联邦州。
But while the Demjanjuk ruling removed the burden of linking guards to a specific death, prosecutors continue to face the burden of proving what suspects knew about the industrial-scale killing taking place around them.
虽然德米扬鲁克案的判决取消了证明守卫与具体杀害行为有关的要求，但检察官们还面临其他挑战——证明嫌犯对发生在他们周围的大规模屠杀行为知情。
They started with Auschwitz-Birkenau, where proving what any one guard knew about the killings may be legally more difficult than in Mr. Demjanjuk’s case, because Auschwitz was far larger than Sobibor.
他们从奥斯威辛集中营开始了这项工作。与德米扬鲁克案中的情况相比，证明奥斯维辛集中营的某名守卫对屠杀活动有所了解可能要更难，因为奥斯维辛要比索比布尔大得多。
“At a death camp like Sobibor it was clear that anyone arriving there would not be leaving again,” said Doris Möller-Scheu, a spokeswoman for prosecutors in Frankfurt who are investigating two men, identified only by their ages, 89 and 92. “We have to prove they actually served on the extermination sites at Auschwitz.”
法兰克福的检察部门正在对两名男子进行调查，他们只肯透露，两人分别为89岁和92岁。“在索比布尔这样的死亡集中营，显然，任何人到了那里都有去无回，”检察部门的发言人多丽丝·默勒-朔伊(Doris Möller-Scheu)说。“我们必须证明他们的确在奥斯维辛的灭绝营服役过。”
The first case to reach state prosecutors involved Hans Lipschis, 94, who was deported from the United States in 1983. At the time, West German authorities said they had no grounds to prosecute him. Three decades later, Ralf Dietrich, a 37-year-old state prosecutor in Stuttgart, was asked to build a case against him.
州级检察部门处理的第一个案子涉及汉斯·利普西斯(Hans Lipschis)。利普西斯现年94岁，1983年遭美国驱逐出境。当时，西德当局认为没有证据起诉他。30年过去了，37岁的斯图加特州级检察官拉尔夫·迪特里希(Ralf Dietrich)接到了搜集针对他的证据的指示。
Mr. Dietrich said that while he reviewed the detailed and emotional testimony from the Frankfurt Auschwitz trials of the 1960s, it was not sufficient to build a modern case. Instead, he approached his case as he would a more recent criminal prosecution.
迪特里希说，尽管他审阅了上世纪60年代在法兰克福举行的奥斯维辛庭审中详实而情绪化的证词，但仍然不足以根据现代法律立案。相反，他用当代刑事诉讼的方式处理了此案。
Using digital technology, he created a three-dimensional model of Auschwitz-Birkenau, with the help of officials in Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria, that allows for a 360-degree view of the camp. It can be programmed to show what an individual guard could have seen from a specific vantage point, even including the window of the kitchen where Mr. Lipschis said he served as a cook.
在巴登-符腾堡州和巴伐利亚州的官员的帮助下，他利用数码技术为奥斯维辛集中营创建了一个三维模型，呈现了这座集中营的360度全景图。通过程序设定，这个模型可以展示某个守卫能够从任何特定的观测点看到的情景，甚至包括利普西斯说自己当年做厨师的那个厨房的窗户。
“We had to prove more than just that he was present,” Mr. Dietrich said.
迪特里希说，“除了证明他在那里，我们还得证明许多东西。”
The one obstacle Mr. Dietrich could not overcome, however, was the advanced age of the defendant, who was ruled to have the onset of dementia, rendering him incapable of following the “difficult individual charges” against him. On Feb. 28, the state court in the German city of Ellwangen dismissed the case. The ruling was a measure of the closing window of time prosecutors face to pursue their cases against the aging suspects.
然而，迪特里希无法克服的一个障碍是这名被告老迈的年龄。他被判定患有早期失智症，无法明白针对自己的“各项复杂的指控”。今年2月28日，位于德国埃尔万根市的州级法院驳回了此案。从这项裁决可以看出，在对年迈的嫌疑人提出指控时，留给检察官们的时间正越来越少。
While Mr. Dietrich will never know if his model would have helped convict Mr. Lipschis, his techniques are serving as a blueprint for other prosecutors across the country who are sharing information, swapping notes and trading tips on strategy.
尽管迪特里希永远无法知道，他的模型能否能为利普西斯定罪提供一臂之力，但他的技术正在被全国各地的检察官效仿。这些检察官正在分享信息、交换记录，并且交流诉讼策略上的心得。