Daniel Toole is a 28-year-old architect in Seattle who plans to attend Harvard’s master’s program in urban design. But instead of paying his way with graduate student loans, he is trying to raise money by selling a slice of his future earnings to investors.
28岁的建筑师丹尼尔·图尔(Daniel Toole)来自西雅图，他正准备攻读哈佛大学(Harvard)的城市设计硕士课程。但他并没有选择用研究生贷款来支付学费，而是试图用向投资者出售自己部分未来收入的方式来筹款。
He needs $80,000, even after scholarships and grants. Mr. Toole wants to finance a big chunk of that through a new company called Pave, which connects people like him with “backers.” If he reaches his goal and raises $30,000 from Pave investors, he will pay them 7 percent of his projected annual salary for 10 years.
就算是拿到了奖学金与补助金，他还有8万美元资金缺口。图尔希望这笔款项中的一大部分都通过一个叫Pave(意为“铺路”)的新公司来筹集，它把像他这样的人与“支持者”联系到一起。如果他达到了目标，从Pave的投资者那里筹到3万美元，他将在未来10年里，每年将目标年收入中的7%支付给他们。
“If I decide to go into the Peace Corps or do something like work for a major firm that didn’t pay well for the first couple years out of school, the percentage of total income would be quite a bit lower than standard 10-year loan paybacks,” said Mr. Toole, who has commitments for nearly $11,000 so far.
“如果我决定去和平队(Peace Corps)，或者去大公司工作，而这些公司给刚出校门没几年的毕业生的工资并不是非常高，那么，我总收入的7%会比标准的10年期贷款的偿还款要低一些，”图尔说，他现在已经得到了近1.1万美元的资助承诺了。
The program comes with other perks: the investors, who clearly want to see their human investments succeed, often double as mentors.
这个项目还有其他福利：投资者当然想看到他们在人力上的投资获得成功，因此经常会兼任导师的角色。
“This is me reaching out and seeing if I can get access to people who can guide me through my career and push me around through their own networks,” Mr. Toole added. “I need solid financial mentorship. I am not great with money, and my parents cannot provide that for me.”
“我这是在寻求帮助，看看我是否能接触到能对我的职业生涯做出指导，并且通过他们自己的人际网络为我提供助力的人，”图尔补充道，“我需要有力的财政支持。我并不是很有钱，我的父母也不能为我提供那样的支撑。”
This alternative form of financing is unlikely to put even a tiny dent in the vast market for federal and private student loans. But with student debt approaching more than $1.2 trillion, particularly at a time when young graduates are facing high unemployment, it’s not that surprising that some people find the idea alluring. Viewed through another prism, critics call it a form of indentured servitude.
这种新的筹款方式不可能对联邦以及私人学生贷款的庞大市场造成任何冲击。但现在学生债务已经超过了1.2万亿美元，特别是在这个年轻毕业生面临着高失业率的时间点，如果有人对这种创意感兴趣的话，那也不是什么奇怪的事。从另一个角度看，有些评论者称这是一种类似于师徒契约的形式。
The program enrollees I spoke with found the whole idea liberating. They said they preferred to pay back a living being who took a risk instead of a faceless institution; it felt less like a loan, they said, and more like an opportunity. If a borrower wants to take a year to start a new company, for instance, or their income drops below, say, the poverty level, they aren’t required to make payments. The risk is shouldered by the investor.
与我交谈过的那些项目参与者都发现，整个想法是非常自由的。他们说他们更喜欢把钱还给一个愿意冒一些风险的活人，而非一个冰冷的机构；他们说这感觉并不像是一笔贷款，而更像是一个机会。比如说，如果一个借贷者想要花一年时间开一家新公司，或者他们的收入降到贫困线以下，他们不会被强行要求在那时还款。风险由投资者共同分担了。
The whole notion of using a portion of your future income to pay for higher education recently made headlines in Oregon. The state Legislature there approved a bill that would create a pilot program: instead of tuition, all students enrolled in state colleges would pay, say, 3 percent of their future income for about 20 years into a state-administered fund. That means some would pay more for their education than others; the program’s supporters say people should think about it as a social insurance program, like Social Security.
用你将来收入的一部分来支付深造的费用，这种创意最近在奥勒冈州成了头条新闻。该州的立法机构通过了一项法案，将会衍生出一个试验项目：所有进入州立大学学习的学生无需再支付学费，而是可以将他们未来20年的总收入的一部分，比如说3%，注入州立基金。这意味着，有些人将要为他们的教育支付相对更高的金额。这个项目的支持者说，人们应该把它看作是一个类似社会保障体系的社会保险项目。
Pave and its competitors, including a company called Upstart, operate differently. Upstart, for instance, tries to estimate what you are likely to earn, based on factors including the college attended, the field of study and grade point average, among other things. “Harvard M.B.A.’s have a very high earning potential,” said Dave Girouard, the founder of Upstart and a former Google executive, “and that means they can raise more money for a lower portion of income.”
Pave和它的竞争者们的运作模式不尽相同。比如说，其中有一个竞争公司叫Upstart（意为“新贵”），它试图基于参与者进入的学校、所学习的领域以及平均成绩等等来预估他们大概可以赚到的薪水。“哈佛大学的MBA拥有非常强的赚钱潜力，”戴夫·吉鲁亚德(Dave Girouard)说，他是Upstart的创始人以及前Google高管，“这意味着他们能用比较低的收入百分比筹集到更多的钱。”
Among its small crop of first users, individuals have raised about $25,000 on average, though Rachel Honeth Kim, a Harvard graduate with an M.B.A., recently raised $100,000 from 37 investors, including Mr. Girouard.
为数不多的第一批参与者中，平均个人筹资金额为2.5万美元左右，不过拥有MBA学位的哈佛大学毕业生瑞秋·霍纳特·金(Rachel Honeth Kim)最近从37位投资者手中筹到了10万美元，吉鲁亚德就是投资者之一。
Many of the people enrolled with companies like Pave and Upstart use the money to finance their own companies and ideas, or, like Mr. Toole, to further their education or pay off existing student debt. A freshman seeking to bankroll an entire college education isn’t the type of candidate these sites are seeking, at least not now.
很多与Pave和Upstart合作的人都把这些钱用来创建他们自己的公司、实现他们的想法，或者像图尔那样，来进一步深造或者支付现有的学费债务。寻求获得大学教育所需所有学费的大一新生并不属于这些公司考虑的候选者范围，至少现在不是。
The companies are also ushering the most promising candidates onto their programs, often with big entrepreneurial plans or causes that are likely to catch investors’ attention. But nobody is guaranteed to raise enough money to meet their goals.
这些公司也很欢迎那些最有前途的候选者加入它们的项目，他们通常都持有大型的创业计划，或者有一些能够吸引投资者关注的理由。但是没人能确保可以筹集到足够的钱来达成自己的目标。
There are other risks, too. If a person is wildly or even moderately successful, they may pay far more than they would owe using a traditional loan. And people with big dreams in lower-paying professions may not necessarily raise enough to cover their education costs.
还有其他的风险。如果某一个人取得了惊人或只是普通的成功，他们就可能要偿还比使用传统贷款方式更多得多的钱。而那些身处相对较低收入领域而胸怀大志的人，则可能筹不到足够支付他们学费的钱。
Of course, if borrowers have enough income to pay their obligations but fail to, the whole experience will begin to feel more like a traditional loan. Delinquencies will be reported to the big credit bureaus. Collection agencies will get involved. (Borrowers will be held to their contracts. Pave and Upstart also had discussions with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a federal regulator that oversees financial products and services.)
当然，如果借贷者有足够收入却拒不偿还他们所欠债务的话，接下来的所有事情感觉上就和传统贷款差不多了。拖欠行为将会被报告给大型信用机构，代收欠款公司也包括在内。（借贷者将被要求执行合同。Pave和Upstart也与消费者金融保护局[Consumer Financial Protection Bureau]有过商讨，该机构为联邦级别，主要监控金融产品及服务。）
Participants in these programs also need to figure out whether they would fare better using federal student loans and programs. Some graduates with high debt loads relative to their income can reduce those payments using one of the federal government’s income-based repayment programs, which caps payments at 10 to 15 percent of income and discharges remaining debt after 20 or 25 years. Public service and nonprofit workers may be eligible to have any remaining debt discharged after 10 years of payments.
这些项目的参与者还需要搞清楚，他们参与联邦学生贷款项目会不会更划算。有些毕业生的债务与他们的收入比较起来相对较高，这样就可以参加联邦政府的基于收入计算的还款项目，来得到减少还款金额的目的，这个项目能把还款控制在收入的10%至15%，并且在20年或者25年之后，剩余的未清债务可以免除。公务员或者非营利机构的员工在偿还债务达10年之后，剩余未清债务便可以得到免除了。
Keeping all of that in mind, here’s a closer look at how some of these companies work.
对这些都有数之后，让我们更近距离地看看这些公司是如何运作的吧。
PAVE You must be 18 to join, but the company said there was greater demand for people who were at least in their senior year of college. Given those demographics, close to half the people are using the money raised to repay debt, while others are using the money to pursue a big idea like making films or to further their education. Once the company verifies that individuals are who they say they are, and they pass its financial and credit check, they may create a video campaign and online pitch.
PAVE你必须要年满18岁才能加入，但这家公司说，对于那些至少已经读到大学四年级的人来说，要求会更高一些。在这些参与者中，将近一半的人会使用这些钱来偿还他们的债务，另一些则会用来实现自己的一个大创意，比如说拍电影或者进一步深造。一旦公司证实申请个人情况的确如他们所说，对他们的金融与信用检查也通过了，他们就可以拍一个宣传视频传上网。
Sal Lahoud, one of Pave’s co-founders, said it used historical guidance based on what the average person had earned in a particular field to estimate a candidate’s future income, which helped it determine how much they were likely to raise successfully. It’s ultimately up to the prospects to decide what percentage of their earnings they are comfortable signing away for the next 10 years, though it can be no more than 10 percent of their annual income.
Pave的联合创始人之一萨尔·拉胡德(Sal Lahoud)说，公司会基于人们在某一特定领域内平均所能挣得的钱作为历史依据，来评估每一位候选人的未来收入，这也可以帮助公司测定他们筹款成功的可能性。最终，候选人将自行决定要把自己接下来10年里收入中的多少个百分点拿出来偿还投资，不过这个比例不能超过他们年收入的10%。  
There is no cap on the amount repaid to investors, but prospects can always decide to pay their backers five times the original amount, unless other terms are set. “If you are doing amazing, why should the people who invested in you early on not participate?” Mr. Lahoud asked. “We built a contract that balances both sides very well. The investors take full downside and full upside.”
对于投资者的回报是不设上限的，但是候选人可以决定用相比于原始资金五倍的钱来偿还他们的支持者，除非设定了一些其它的条款。“如果你发展得非常棒，为什么不让那些在你奋斗的初期为你投资的人也一起分享呢？”拉胡德问道，“我们设计了一个可以让双方都满意的合同。投资者既承担所有的风险，也能取得全部的回报。”  
Borrowers don’t pay anything if annual income falls below 150 percent of the federal poverty line.
如果借贷人的收入低于联邦贫困线的150%，他们则不需要进行任何偿还。
Pave takes its share, too: 3 percent of the amount the individual raises, and it charges a 1.5 percent servicing fee on payments made to the investors, who are estimated to earn about 5 to 8 percent on their investment.
Pave也能从中获利：他们收取每人最终筹得款项的3%，并且从他们对投资者的偿还支付中收取1.5%的服务费。公司估计投资者们将会从他们的投资中获利5到8个百分点。  
So far, more than 4,000 prospects have applied to the program, with more than 1,000 backers. But the service opened to the public only six weeks ago. About 30 people have either received all of their funding or are still currently raising money, for a grand total of $550,000. About 130 more prospects have been invited to start campaigns, which will be introduced on the Web site over the next few months.
这项服务仅仅在六周前才向公众开放，但已有超过4000名候选人申请了这个项目，投资者也超过了1000位。大约有30人或已筹到他们的全部资金，或仍在筹集当中，总计获得55万美元。有大约130多名候选人受邀开始筹款活动，这些活动将会在未来的几个月被放在网站上进行宣传。
UPSTART Though the company plans on opening the program to more people, right now it’s accessible only to college seniors and people who graduated from a four-year college or a graduate program within the last eight years. You also need to be in reasonably good shape creditwise, meaning you need a FICO score of at least 640. (Having no credit history is acceptable).
UPSTART 虽然公司计划将项目面向更多的人，但目前它只对大四学生或者在过去八年中从四年本科课程或研究生项目中毕业的人开放。你还需要拥有非常好的信用记录，这意味着你的FICO信用分至少需要有640分。（没有信用历史的也可以被接受）。
The maximum candidates can share is 7 percent of their projected annual income (over 10 years), which is calculated using its own model.
候选者在未来超过10年的时间里可以支付的最大值是他们目标年收入的7%，这是由他们自己的模型计算出来的。  
As with Pave, there’s nothing stopping a potential high-earner from changing course and deciding to become a social worker or a teacher. That’s the risk the investor takes, though Mr. Girouard says they aim to generate investor returns of about 8 percent on average. (My colleague Paul Sullivan wrote about them from the investor’s perspective last month).
和Pave一样，对于潜在高收入者改换课程以及成为社工或者教师的决定是不设障碍的。这个风险将会由投资者承担，尽管吉鲁亚德先生说他们的目标是让投资者获得平均8%的回报。（我的同事保罗·沙利文[Paul Sullivan]于上月对投资者的看法进行过报道。 ）
People earning less than $30,000 annually are not required to make payments, but the repayment term extends a year. The maximum they can ever pay back is five times the amount raised.
对于年收入低于3万美元的人是不要求立刻进行偿还的，但偿还期将会延长一年。他们可以还款的最大额度是筹得金额的五倍。  
The company collects 3 percent of the money raised, and it charges investors an annual fee of 0.50 percent of the amount invested, not unlike a mutual fund. Both Pave and Upstart allow only accredited investors to participate, which means having an annual income more than $200,000 or a net worth above $1 million.
公司会从筹得金额中抽取3%，并且会从投资者那里收取投资额0.5%的年费，这与互助基金并无不同。Pave和Upstart都只允许经认可的投资人参与，这意味着他们需要拥有至少20万美元的年收入或者超过100万美元的净资产。  
LUMNI This company, which in 2002 helped bankroll its first student in Chile, is open to all college students, though it aims to help those from lower-income families. Investors ultimately decide which students they want to finance. As at the other sites, students also agree to pay back a set percentage of their projected future income to their investors — a maximum of 15 percent in the United States — for up to 120 months after they graduate. Lumni, which started operating in the United States in 2010, has helped 27 students raise money here (and more than 3,000 in Chile, Peru, Mexico and Colombia). It’s not accepting new applications from American students right now because it is currently analyzing how its first crop of graduates performed. “We see our relationship more like the one angel investors have with entrepreneurs,” said Felipe Vergara, the company’s chief executive.
LUMNI 这家公司于2002年在智利帮忙资助了它的首位学生。虽然该公司的目标是帮助来自低收入家庭的学生，但它对所有大学生都开放。最终是由投资者决定他们将资助哪位学生。和其他公司一样，学生们同样同意在他们毕业后的至多120个月中，从他们未来的薪水中扣除一定的百分比来偿还给他们的投资人，在美国，最大比例是15%。LUMNI于2010年开始在美国运作，它在这里已经帮助27名学生筹集资金，此外在智利、秘鲁、墨西哥和哥伦比亚帮助了3000多名学生。公司现在正在分析他们资助的第一批毕业生的表现，因此暂不接受来自美国的新申请人。“我们认为我们之间的关系更类似天使投资人与企业家的关系，”公司的首席执行官菲利浦·维加拉(Felipe Vergara)说。