BARBARA BARRY, the Los Angeles-based interior designer, has created a range of products, including furniture, tableware, bedding and even luggage. But one of her favorite projects had nothing to do with design.
常驻洛杉矶的室内设计师芭芭拉·巴里(Barbara Barry)设计过各种各样的产品，包括家具、餐具、床上用品，乃至行李箱包，但在她最喜欢的项目之中，却有一件与设计毫无关系。
Six years ago, Ms. Barry collaborated with the Canadian company T to create a custom tea blend called Orange Grove, and earlier this year her second blend, Citrine, was introduced.
六年前，巴里曾与一家名为T的加拿大公司合作，调配出一种特制混合茶，名为“桔园”(Orange Grove)。今年年初，她的第二款混合茶“西特林”(Citrine)又面世了。
“I truly fell in love with tea on my first trip to Kyoto in 2000,” she said. “And loving all things Japanese, I learned more about the culture through learning about ‘the way of tea.’ ”
“2000年，我第一次去京都旅行时，就深深爱上了喝茶，”她说，“也爱上了一切带有日本味道的东西。在学习‘茶道’的过程中，我对日本文化有了更多了解。”
She added: “Tea is like design: what you leave out is as important as what you put in.”
她还说：“茶道与设计如出一辙：你要舍弃什么和放入什么，一样重要。”
On her way to London, another tea-friendly city, Ms. Barry passed through New York, taking time out to shop for accessories to enhance the experience of drinking tea.
在去往伦敦这座同样热衷于喝茶的城市之前，巴里途经纽约，抽了些时间去选购茶具，好让茶喝起来更有感觉。
She began at the new Ted Muehling store in TriBeCa, where she admired a carved agate bracelet (she is a big fan of Mr. Muehling’s jewelry) before focusing on the subject at hand.
她从翠贝卡社区(TriBeCa)新开业的泰德·缪林(Ted Muehling)商店逛起。在那里，她先看上一只雕花的玛瑙手镯（她是缪林珠宝的忠实粉丝），随后才注意到手边这件物品。
When it comes to tea strainers, she announced, the Ted Muehling sterling silver Queen Anne’s Lace tea strainer is “the most beautiful tea strainer in the world. It’s a delight to pour water through the Champagne-like bubble openings, and there is always a gasp from first-timers.”
说到滤茶器，她称泰德·缪林的这个安妮女王花边(Queen Anne's Lace)纯银滤茶器，是“世上最美的一个。从香槟酒泡沫般的开口中把茶水倒出来，会让人有一种愉悦感。第一次使用的人总会发出一声惊叹。”
At Alessi, Ms. Barry found a new spoon by LUCY.D that was “thoughtfully designed to hold the tea in its folded handle.”
在Alesssi商店，巴里发现了一个由LUCY.D设计的新款茶勺，这把勺子“设计独具匠心，可把茶叶装在对折的手柄中。”
As for porcelain tea sets, she noted, Augarten, an Austrian company, makes her favorites. And the Rottenberg service, crowned with a series of whimsical heads, is “magical,” she said. “Each head is put on by hand and smoothed to perfection. The porcelain is almost translucent, and drinking from the low, wide teacup makes you feel delicate.”
至于陶瓷茶具，她提到了一家澳大利亚公司Augarten，也是她的最爱。还有一套罗腾伯格(Rottenberg)茶具，茶具的几个茶盖上都顶着形态各异的脑袋，“太神奇了，”她说，“每个脑袋都是手工接上去的，又被处理得天衣无缝。”这套瓷器差不多是半透明的，而且从这个不高的宽口茶杯中喝茶，会让你觉得很精致。
Most of her go-to Japanese products were found online, including a handcrafted bowl for drinking matcha (a green tea made with a bamboo whisk) and a whisk keeper, both sold by Hibiki-an, a shop in Kyoto.
她常用的日本产品大部分都是在网上找到的，包括一只用来喝抹茶（一种用竹制茶拂做出来的绿茶）的手工大茶碗，以及一个茶拂托。这两件物品都在京都一家名为Hibiki-an的商店中有售。
“Once you fall for the taste of fresh matcha, you will want all the accompaniments that make this a special ritual,” she said. “It might take a little practice to get that foamy top on the tea. I find some days are easier than others.”
“你一旦喜欢上新鲜抹茶的味道，就会想要一切使之成为一种特殊仪式的器具，”她说，“要让茶面浮起一层泡沫，还得稍微练习一下。我发现，有的时候做起来比较容易，有时就比较难。”