Over the Fourth of July holiday, my wife and I joined some friends for a barbecue in their backyard. The guests were lively and the space was lovely — grassy and open but shady and surrounded by lots of shrubs and trees.
7月4日美国国庆假期期间，我和妻子去了朋友家，在后院和他们烧烤。客人们兴致很高，聚会场地很美，空间开阔，绿草丰茂，树木成荫。
In other words, it was perfect for mosquitoes — and indeed, closer inspection showed that they were thriving in all that greenery.
也就是说，这里是蚊子的天堂。稍留心一些就会发现，这一片绿意中确实蚊子繁盛。
But our friends had come up with a solution that saved us from having to deal with bug repellents or, worse, bites and itches.
但有朋友想了个点子，让我们不用费心使用驱虫剂，或受叮咬瘙痒之苦。
On a low table, they set up a small electric fan, perhaps 12 inches high, that swept back and forth, sending a gentle breeze across the grassy area where people were sitting.
他们在一张低矮的桌子上放了一架小电风扇，约有12英寸（约合30厘米）高，前后摇头吹风，为站在草坪上的人们送上缕缕柔和清风。
That was it. No citronella candles, no bug zappers, no DEET, nothing expensive or high-tech. Yet amazingly, it worked. As far as I could tell, no mosquitoes flew into the vicinity of the simulated wind; nobody was bitten.
仅此而已。没有使用香茅油蜡烛、捕蚊灯、避蚊胺或任何昂贵的高科技装备，但效果却出奇得好。据我所见，这种仿自然风所到之处，没有一只蚊子，也没有一个人被蚊子咬到。
As we left, I asked our hosts about the fan idea; they credited a mutual friend at the barbecue. He, in turn, paid tribute to a friend of his: Frank Swift, president of Swift Food Equipment Inc. in Philadelphia.
快离开时，我向主人家问起这个电风扇的点子。他们说这都是来烧烤的一位朋友的功劳。而那位朋友又将之归功于他自己的一个朋友：费城斯威夫特食品设备股份有限公司(Swift Food Equipment Inc)董事长弗兰克·斯威夫特(Frank Swift).
So I reached out to Mr. Swift, who replied by e-mail. “The solution came from trying to think like a bug,” he explained, “and realizing I don’t like flying into a 15 m.p.h. wind.”
所以，我向斯威夫特打听。他回邮件解释说，“我们试着像虫子一样思考，才有了这个方法。虫子是这样想的：我才不要飞进每小时15英里的风里。”
Outsmarting bugs with a fan may be a poorly known strategy. But the method, it turns out, is endorsed by the American Mosquito Control Association, a nonprofit group based in Mount Laurel, N.J., that publishes a journal bearing its name.
用电扇智胜蚊子，这个策略可能鲜为人知。但它其实得到了美国控蚊协会(American Mosquito Control Association)的支持。该协会是新泽西州月桂山市的一家非营利性组织，并发行有一本以机构名称为名的期刊。
“Mosquitoes are relatively weak fliers,” it says on its Web site, “so placing a large fan on your deck can provide a low-tech solution.” The group says mosquitoes fly slowly — from roughly 1 to 1.5 miles per hour, depending on the species.
该协会在官网上称，“蚊子的飞行能力相对较弱，所以在桌子上放一台大电扇，可以不使用高科技就解决蚊子问题。”协会称，蚊子飞行速度很慢，根据种类不同，蚊子的飞行速度约在每小时1英里到1.5英里之间。
Scientists have identified another factor. The breeze from a fan disperses the human emanations that allow female mosquitoes to zero in on us. (The guys are innocent! Honest! Females need the stolen blood for egg making.)
科学家还确认了另外一个因素。母蚊子可以根据人类散发的气息锁定目标，而电扇的清风吹散了我们的气息。（公蚊子都是清白的！真的！母蚊子需要吸血才能产卵。）
Humans exhale lots of carbon dioxide — the most widely recognized of the many likely mosquito attractants, including body heat and odors. When a female mosquito senses the invisible gas, she typically flies a zigzag path within the plume to track down its source.
有许多可能吸引蚊子的因素，包括体热及气味，而人体大量呼出的二氧化碳，是其中最广为人知的一种。当母蚊子察觉到这种无形的气体时，她通常会顺着这股气体以折线飞行，以锁定其源头。
In a wetland swarming with mosquitoes, entomologists from Michigan State University did an experiment that demonstrated not only the attractive power of a carbon dioxide trap but the effectiveness of plume disruption.
密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)的昆虫学家用一群湿地蚊子做实验，证明了二氧化碳对蚊子的吸引力，以及吹散这股气体能产生的驱蚊效果。
“Fan-generated wind strongly reduced the mosquito catches,” the scientists wrote in The Journal of Medical Entomology. “We recommend that fan-generated wind should be pursued as a practical means of protecting humans or pets from mosquitoes in the backyard setting.”
这些科学家在《医学昆虫学期刊》(The Journal of Medical Entomology)上写道，“电扇吹出来的风极大地降低了蚊虫锁定目标的效率。我们建议，在后院活动时，使用电风扇吹出来的风，作为保护人类及宠物不被蚊子叮咬的可行方法。”
The recommendation has penetrated the blogosphere — a bit. “Sit near an electric fan while you are outside,” eHow.com advises. “An oscillating fan works best, but a regular box fan will do. Mosquitoes aren’t strong enough to fly through the wind.”
这种建议在博客圈得到了一些反响。eHow.com建议，“在户外时，请站在电扇旁，摇头电扇效果最好，但是普通的箱式风扇也行。蚊子没有强大到顶着电扇风飞行的程度。”
In my experience, that kind of homey advice is lost amid all the ads and pitches for mosquito repellents and traps, which can cost hundreds of dollars.
我个人看到的是，这种温馨建议淹没在了众多驱蚊灭蚊设备的广告宣传中，那些设备能卖到几百美元。
As for other popular remedies, the mosquito control association says repellent-infused mosquito coils provide only “some protection” at best, and it dismisses the candles with a shrug, saying their mild repellent action offers no significant advantage over other candles that give off lots of smoke.
其他流行方法的效果如何？控蚊协会说，含有驱蚊剂的手环最多只有“一些保护效果”。该协会对驱蚊蜡烛不屑一顾，说这种温和的驱蚊行为没有什么显著优势，还不如其他一些会冒很多烟的蜡烛。
By contrast, the simple fan seems like a sure thing. In the world of journalism, we call this news you can use.
相比而言，简简单单的电扇似乎是个靠得住的东西。在新闻界，我们称之为有用的新闻。