Most sleeping pills are designed to knock you out for eight hours. When the Food and Drug Administration was evaluating a new short-acting pill for people to take when they wake up in the middle of the night, agency scientists wanted to know how much of the drug would still be in users' systems come morning.
大部分安眠药的目的是让你安睡八小时。近来，美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）的研究者对一种用于治疗半夜醒来的短效安眠药进行评估，则是希望了解患者在次日早上醒来时，体内还残余着多少药物。
Blood tests uncovered a gender gap: Men metabolized the drug, Intermezzo, faster than women. Ultimately the F.D.A. approved a 3.5 milligram pill for men, and a 1.75 milligram pill for women.
结果在血液检测中研究者发现了性别造成的差异：男性在代谢这种名为酒石酸唑吡坦(Intermezzo)的药物时，速度比女性更快。最终FDA在批准该药时，规定男性使用剂量为3.5毫克，女性为1.75毫克。
The active ingredient in Intermezzo, zolpidem, is used in many other sleeping aids, including Ambien. But it wasn't until earlier this month that the F.D.A. reduced doses of Ambien for women by half.
酒石酸唑吡坦中的有效成分为唑吡坦，它被用于其他多种助眠药物中，其中包括了安必恩(Ambien)。但直至本月，FDA才规定将安必恩的女性服用剂量减半。
Sleeping pills are hardly the only medications that may have unexpected, even dangerous, effects in women. Studies have shown that women respond differently than men to many drugs, from aspirin to anesthesia. Researchers are only beginning to understand the scope of the issue, but many believe that as a result, women experience a disproportionate share of adverse, often more severe, side effects.
安眠药绝对不是唯一有可能给女性带来意想不到的、甚或是危险副作用的药物。此前有几项研究表明，女性在使用从阿司匹林(aspirin)到麻醉剂的多种药物时，所出现的反应都不同于男性。研究者现在刚刚开始理解到该问题的广度。有不少人相信正因为如此，女性在服药后会发生过高比例的副反应，而且这些副作用往往非常严重。
"This is not just about Ambien - that's just the tip of the iceberg," said Dr. Janine Clayton, director for the Office of Research on Women's Health at the National Institutes of Health. "There are a lot of sex differences for a lot of drugs, some of which are well known and some that are not well recognized."
“这不仅跟安必恩有关——它只揭示了冰山一角，”美国国家卫生研究所(National Institutes of Health)女性健康研究办公室主任简宁·克莱顿博士(Janine Clayton)这样表示。“很多药的效果都存在着性别差异，其中一些已经为人们熟知，但也有些还未被充分认识到。”
Until 1993, women of childbearing age were routinely excluded from trials of new drugs. When the F.D.A. lifted the ban that year, agency researchers noted that because landmark studies on aspirin in heart disease and stroke had not included women, the scientific community was left "with doubts about whether aspirin was, in fact, effective in women for these indications."
在1993年以前，育龄女性通常都不得参与各类新药人体试验。而在这一年，当FDA取消了禁令后，该机构的研究人员注意到，由于没有女性参加有关阿司匹林对心脏病和脑卒中治疗的里程碑式的研究，科学界对“阿司匹林对治疗患该类疾病的女性是否真的有效存有疑虑。”
Because so many drugs were tested mostly or exclusively in men, scientists may know little of their effects on women until they reach the market. A Government Accountability Office study found that 8 of 10 drugs removed from the market from 1997 through 2000 posed greater health risks to women.
由于大量药物的测试人群大多或全部为男性，科学家要等到药物上市后，才有可能了解其对女性的副作用。美国政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)的一项调查发现，从1997年到2000年间被强制下架的10种药物中，有八种对女性会构成更大的健康风险。
For example, Seldane, an antihistamine, and the gastrointestinal drug Propulsid both triggered a potentially fatal heart arrhythmia more often in women than in men. Many drugs still on the market cause this arrhythmia more often in women, including antibiotics, antipsychotics, anti-malarial drugs and cholesterol-lowering drugs, Dr. Clayton said. Women also tend to use more medications than men.
举例来说，抗组胺药特非那定(Seldane)和胃肠道药西沙必利(Propulsid)在引发可能致命的心律不齐问题时，女性发病的机率都要比男性更高。克莱顿博士介绍说，目前仍在销售的大量药物所引发的心律不齐，在女性身上都表现得更为频繁，其中包括抗生素、抗精神病药、治疗疟疾药物和降胆固醇药物。女性服用的药也往往比男性多。
The sex differences cut both ways. Some drugs, like the high blood pressure drug Verapamil and the antibiotic erythromycin, appear to be more effective in women. On the other hand, women tend to wake up from anesthesia faster than men and are more likely to experience side effects from anesthetic drugs, according to the Society for Women's Health Research.
药效的性别差异表现在两方面。一些药，比如治疗高血压的维拉帕米(Verapamil)和抗生素红霉素，看来对女性的疗效更明显。而在另一方面，据女性健康研究协会(Society for Women's Health Research)表示，相比男性，女性更容易在麻醉术中途苏醒，也更有可能遭受麻醉剂导致的副作用。
Women also react differently to alcohol, tobacco and cocaine, studies have found.
研究还发现，酒精、香烟和可卡因对女性产生的作用与男性不同。
It's not just because women tend to be smaller than men. Women metabolize drugs differently because they have a higher percentage of body fat and experience hormonal fluctuations and the monthly menstrual cycle. "Some drugs are more water-based and like to hang out in the blood, and some like to hang out in the fat tissue," said Wesley Lindsey, assistant professor of pharmacy practice at Auburn University, who is a co-author of a paper on sex-based differences in drug activity.
这不仅是因为女性的身材通常矮小一点。女性的体脂率较高，而且荷尔蒙波动大，每月出现月经周期，因此代谢药物也会有所不同。韦斯利·林塞(Wesley Lindsey)是奥本大学(Auburn University)药学院的助理教授，与人合著了一篇关于药效性别差异的论文，他说：“一些药物是更加偏于水溶性，往往会在血液中驻留；而另一些药更可能在脂肪组织中驻留。”
"If the drug is lipophilic" - attracted to fat cells - "it will move into those tissues and hang around for longer," Dr. Lindsey added. "The body won't clear it as quickly, and you'll see effects longer."
“如果药物是脂溶性的，”——也就是说被脂肪细胞吸收——“它就会由这些组织器官吸收，停留在体内的时间更长，”林塞博士进一步说，“身体无法快速将它代谢，你会发现这种药的药力更持久。”
There are also sex differences in liver metabolism, kidney function and certain gastric enzymes. Oral contraceptives, menopause and post-menopausal hormone treatment further complicate the picture. Some studies suggest, for example, that when estrogen levels are low, women may need higher doses of drugs called angiotensin receptor blockers to lower blood pressure, because they have higher levels of proteins that cause the blood vessels to constrict, said Kathryn Sandberg, director of the Center for the Study of Sex Differences in Health, Aging and Disease at Georgetown.
在肝脏代谢、肾功能和某些特定的消化酶方面也存在着性别差异。口服避孕药、更年期和绝经期激素疗法使得女性用药的问题显得更为复杂。乔治城大学(Georgetown)健康、老化与疾病之性别差异研究中心的主管凯瑟琳·桑德伯格(Kathryn Sandberg)举例说，比如一些研究认为在雌激素水平较低时，女性可能需要服用更高剂量的血管紧张素受体阻滞剂以降低血压，因为这时她们体内的蛋白质含量升高，会导致血管收缩。
Many researchers say data on these sex differences must be gathered at the very beginning of a drug's development - even before trials on human subjects begin.
很多研究者认为，应当在新药研发之初——甚至是在开展人体药物试验开始前，就收集药效性别差异的数据。
"The path to a new drug starts with the basic science - you study an animal model of the disease, and that's where you discover a drug target," Dr. Sandberg said. "But 90 percent of researchers are still studying male animal models of the disease."
桑德伯格博士说：“通往新药的路径始于最基础的科学——你先要研究动物的疾病模式，就此发现药物靶点。但现在有九成的科研人员仍然只研究雄性动物的疾病模式。”
There have been improvements. In an interview, Dr. Robert Temple, with the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the F.D.A., said the agency's new guidelines in 1993 called for studies of sex differences at the earliest stages of drug development, as well as for analysis of clinical trial data by sex.
在这方面已经出现了改进。在接受采访时，FDA药品评估和研究中心的罗伯特·坦普尔(Robert Temple)博士说，该机构于1993年制订了新指南，要求在药品研发的最早期阶段就要开始注意研究药效性别差异，同时也要分性别来解读临床实验数据。
He said early research on an irritable bowel syndrome drug, alosetron (Lotronex), suggested it would not be effective in men. As a result, only women were included in clinical trials, and it was approved only for women. (Its use is restricted now because of serious side effects.)
他说，有一种治疗肠易激综合症的药叫阿洛司琼（alosetron，商品名“罗肠欣”），对该药的早期研究时显示它对男性效果不显著。因此在临床试验时只招募了女性志愿者，在审批通过时也注明只能供女性患者服用。（由于存在严重副作用，现在该药被限制销售。）
But some scientists say drug metabolism studies with only 10 or 15 subjects are too small to pick up sex differences. Even though more women participate in clinical trials than in the past, they are still underrepresented in trials for heart and kidney disease, according to one recent analysis, and even in cancer trials.
也有些科学家认为，药物代谢试验只有10到15个志愿者参加，规模太小，不足以发现药效性别差异。根据近期的一项分析，就算现在参加临床试验的女性比以往多了，但在治疗心脏病和肾脏病、甚至是癌症的临床试验中，参与的女性仍然较少。
"The big problem is we're not quite sure how much difference this makes," Dr. Lindsey said. "We just don't have a good handle on it."
林塞博士说：“现在有个大问题，那就是我们并不能确切地知道，性别会带来多大的差异。我们对此实在知之甚少。”