CLEWISTON, Fla. — The call Ricke Kress and every other citrus grower in Florida dreaded came while he was driving.
佛罗里达州克莱维斯顿——里克·克雷斯(Ricke Kress)开车的时候，接到了让他和佛罗里达州其他柑橘树种植者都十分担心的电话。
“It’s here” was all his grove manager needed to say to force him over to the side of the road.
“来了。”他的果园经理只需要这一句话就足以让他把车停在路边。
The disease that sours oranges and leaves them half green, already ravaging citrus crops across the world, had reached the state’s storied groves. Mr. Kress, the president of Southern Gardens Citrus, in charge of two and a half million orange trees and a factory that squeezes juice for Tropicana and Florida’s Natural, sat in silence for several long moments.
这种病害会使橙子变酸，呈半绿状态，它已经在世界各地破坏了很多柑橘园，现在传播到了佛罗里达州有着不少典故的果园。克雷斯是南方花园柑橘公司(Southern Gardens Citrus)总裁，负责250万棵柑橘树，还有一家为Tropicana和Florida’s Natural等品牌榨汁的工厂。他沉默地坐了许久。
“O.K.,” he said finally on that fall day in 2005, “let’s make a plan.”
“好吧，”2005年秋的那一天，他最后说，“让我们来制定一个计划。”
In the years that followed, he and the 8,000 other Florida growers who supply most of the nation’s orange juice poured everything they had into fighting the disease they call citrus greening.
在随后的几年中，他和佛罗里达州另外8000名柑橘种植者竭尽全力抗击这种被称为黄龙病(citrus greening)的病害。美国的橙汁大部分来自佛罗里达。
To slow the spread of the bacterium that causes the scourge, they chopped down hundreds of thousands of infected trees and sprayed an expanding array of pesticides on the winged insect that carries it. But the contagion could not be contained.
为了减缓引起灾难的细菌的传播速度，这些种植者砍倒了数十万棵受感染的柑橘树，并向携带这种细菌的飞虫喷洒了各种杀虫剂。但是病害的传播并没有得到遏制。
They scoured Central Florida’s half-million acres of emerald groves and sent search parties around the world to find a naturally immune tree that could serve as a new progenitor for a crop that has thrived in the state since its arrival, it is said, with Ponce de León. But such a tree did not exist.
这种病害摧毁了佛罗里达中部50万英亩（约合20.25万公顷）碧绿的果园，促使种植者派出搜索小组跑遍世界各地寻找一棵具有自然免疫力、可以拿来做种的柑橘树。但是，世界上并不存在这样一棵树。据说当年橘树是由西班牙探险家邦士良(Ponce de León)带到佛罗里达的，在这里一直生长良好。
“In all of cultivated citrus, there is no evidence of immunity,” the plant pathologist heading a National Research Council task force on the disease said.
“在人类栽种的所有柑橘树中，不存在免疫现象，”负责美国国家研究委员会(National Research Council)黄龙病工作组的植物病理学家说。
In all of citrus, but perhaps not in all of nature. With a precipitous decline in Florida’s harvest predicted within the decade, the only chance left to save it, Mr. Kress believed, was one that his industry and others had long avoided for fear of consumer rejection. They would have to alter the orange’s DNA — with a gene from a different species.
柑橘树不能免疫，但也许并不是整个自然界都是如此。根据预测，10年内佛罗里达州的收成会出现骤降。克雷斯相信，拯救柑橘种植业的唯一机会，就是采用他所在行业和其他行业因担心消费者抵制而长期不敢采用的方法。他们将不得不利用另一个不同物种的基因来改变柑橘的DNA。
Oranges are not the only crop that might benefit from genetically engineered resistance to diseases for which standard treatments have proven elusive. And advocates of the technology say it could also help provide food for a fast-growing population on a warming planet by endowing crops with more nutrients, or the ability to thrive in drought, or to resist pests. Leading scientific organizations have concluded that shuttling DNA between species carries no intrinsic risk to human health or the environment, and that such alterations can be reliably tested.
柑橘并不是唯一可能受益于通过基因手段来抵御疾病的作物，这些疾病往往是标准治疗方案所无法应对的。这种科技的提倡者说，它还可以使作物更有营养，或者赋予它们在干旱条件下茁壮生长或抵御虫害的能力，从而帮助为逐渐变暖的地球上快速增加的人口提供食物。领先科研组织已得出结论称，交换不同物种的DNA对人类健康或环境没有内在固有的危害，而且这种改变能够得到可靠的测试。
But the idea of eating plants and animals whose DNA has been manipulated in a laboratory — called genetically modified organisms, or G.M.O.’s — still spooks many people. Critics worry that such crops carry risks not yet detected, and distrust the big agrochemical companies that have produced the few in wide use. And hostility toward the technology, long ingrained in Europe, has deepened recently among Americans as organic food advocates, environmentalists and others have made opposition to it a pillar of a growing movement for healthier and ethical food choices.
但是，食用DNA被实验室操纵的动植物，即“转基因生物”（genetically modified organisms，简称GMO），这种想法仍然让很多人觉得可怕。批评人士担心，此类作物或许存在一些尚未暴露的风险，而且他们不信任目前生产少量广泛使用的GMO的农用化学品公司。欧洲人一向对这种科技怀有深刻敌意，最近美国人对它的反对情绪也开始加深。有机食品倡导者、环保主义者和其他人已将反对GMO作为一股势力越来越强的运动的支柱之一，目的是获得更健康更道德的食品选择。
Mr. Kress’s boss worried about damaging the image of juice long promoted as “100 percent natural.”
克雷斯的老板担心，他们一直宣传的“100%天然”果汁的形象将受到损害。
“Do we really want to do this?” he demanded in a 2008 meeting at the company’s headquarters on the northern rim of the Everglades.
“我们真的要这么做吗？”他2008年在位于佛罗里达大沼泽地(Everglades)北部边缘的公司总部举行的一次会议上说。
Mr. Kress, now 61, had no particular predilection for biotechnology. Known for working long hours, he rose through the ranks at fruit and juice companies like Welch’s and Seneca Foods. On moving here for the Southern Gardens job, just a few weeks before citrus greening was detected, he had assumed his biggest headache would be competition from flavored waters, or persuading his wife to tolerate Florida’s humidity.
现年61岁的克雷斯对生物技术没有特别的嗜好。克雷斯以工作时间长出名，他在淳果篮(Welch’s)和仙尼卡食品公司(Seneca Foods)等水果和果汁公司一级级地爬到今天的位置。就在柑橘黄龙病被察觉前数周，他刚刚因为接受南方花园柑橘公司的工作搬到这里，当时他曾以为，自己最大的麻烦是和添加剂饮料竞争，或者说服妻子忍受佛罗里达州的潮湿气候。
But the dwindling harvest that could mean the idling of his juice processing plant would also have consequences beyond any one company’s bottom line. Florida is the second-largest producer of orange juice in the world, behind Brazil. Its $9 billion citrus industry contributes 76,000 jobs to the state that hosts the Orange Bowl. Southern Gardens, a subsidiary of U.S. Sugar, was one of the few companies in the industry with the wherewithal to finance the development of a “transgenic” tree, which could take a decade and cost as much as $20 million.
然而，可能意味着他所在的橙汁加工厂停产的收成下降，还可能产生超出任何一家公司盈亏底线的后果。佛罗里达是全球第二大橙汁产地，仅次于巴西。价值90亿美元的柑橘业给主办“橙子碗”(Orange Bowl)美式足球赛的佛罗里达州贡献了7.6万个工作岗位。南方花园柑橘公司作为美国糖业(U.S. Sugar)的子公司，是业内有实力出资培育“转基因”果树的少数企业之一，这项工作可能要耗费10年时间和高达2000万美元的成本。
An emerging scientific consensus held that genetic engineering would be required to defeat citrus greening. “People are either going to drink transgenic orange juice or they’re going to drink apple juice,” one University of Florida scientist told Mr. Kress.
科学界正在形成的一个共识是，要打败柑橘黄龙病，基因工程是必不可少的。佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)的一名科学家对克雷斯说，“人们要是不喝转基因橙汁，就得改喝苹果汁。”
And if the presence of a new gene in citrus trees prevented juice from becoming scarcer and more expensive, Mr. Kress believed, the American public would embrace it. “The consumer will support us if it’s the only way,” Mr. Kress assured his boss.
克雷斯认为，如果柑橘树的新基因能够阻止果汁变得更稀少、更昂贵，那么美国民众就会接受这种基因。克雷斯向他老板保证，“如果这是唯一的方法，消费者是会支持我们的。”
His quest to save the orange offers a close look at the daunting process of genetically modifying one well-loved organism — on a deadline. In the past several years, out of public view, he has considered DNA donors from all over the tree of life, including two vegetables, a virus and, briefly, a pig. A synthetic gene, manufactured in the laboratory, also emerged as a contender.
他挽救橙子的求索过程，让人有机会密切审视一个艰巨的过程，即赶在某个深受喜爱的物种灭绝之前，对其实施基因改造。过去几年里，在公众视线外，他曾考虑过来自“生命之树”各枝桠的DNA捐赠体，包括两种蔬菜，一种病毒，一度还考虑过猪。在实验室里生产的一种合成基因，也成了捐赠DNA的一个竞争者。
Trial trees that withstood the disease in his greenhouse later succumbed in the field. Concerns about public perception and potential delays in regulatory scrutiny put a damper on some promising leads. But intent on his mission, Mr. Kress shrugged off signs that national campaigns against genetically modified food were gaining traction.
在温室里成功抵抗疾病的试验树后来死在地里。对公众感受和监管审批可能拖延的担忧，阻碍了一些颇有希望的开发方向。不过，志在必得的克雷斯，对于反对转基因食品的全国运动凝聚人气的迹象不屑一顾。
Only in recent months has he begun to face the full magnitude of the gap between what science can achieve and what society might accept.
直到最近几个月，他才开始直面一个巨大的鸿沟：一方面是科学能够取得的进展，另一方面是社会可能接受的结果。
Millenniums of Intervention
绵延千百年的干预
Even in the heyday of frozen concentrate, the popularity of orange juice rested largely on its image as the ultimate natural beverage, fresh-squeezed from a primordial fruit. But the reality is that human intervention has modified the orange for millenniums, as it has almost everything people eat.
即使是在速冻浓缩果汁的鼎盛时期，橙汁的流行在很大程度上也取决于它的形象，即这是一种终极天然饮品，是从原汁原味的水果鲜榨出来的。但现实是，人类的干预已经在数千年里改良了橙子，就像人类改良了几乎所有食品一样。
Before humans were involved, corn was a wild grass, tomatoes were tiny, carrots were only rarely orange and dairy cows produced little milk. The orange, for its part, might never have existed had human migration not brought together the grapefruit-size pomelo from the tropics and the diminutive mandarin from a temperate zone thousands of years ago in China. And it would not have become the most widely planted fruit tree had human traders not carried it across the globe.
在人类干预之前，玉米是一种野草，西红柿小得可怜，橙色的胡萝卜极为罕见，奶牛只能产出极少量的奶。就橙子而言，如果不是几千年前，人类移民把从赤道带出的葡萄柚大小的柚子，和从中国温带地区带出的较小的桔子合二为一的话，这一物种可能永远不会存在。如果不是贸易商带着它踏遍全球，它也不会成为种植最为广泛的果树。
The varieties that have survived, among the many that have since arisen through natural mutation, are the product of human selection, with nearly all of Florida’s juice a blend of just two: the Hamlin, whose unremarkable taste and pale color are offset by its prolific yield in the early season, and the dark, flavorful, late-season Valencia.
在自然突变所产生的许多柑橘属水果中，幸存的品种是人类选择的产物。几乎所有的佛罗里达橙汁都是两种橙子的果汁混合物，即哈姆林橙(Hamlin)和伏令夏橙(Valencia)，前者口味一般且颜色偏淡，但产期靠前且产量较高，后者颜色较深、味道浓厚，但产期靠后。
Because oranges themselves are hybrids and most seeds are clones of the mother, new varieties cannot easily be produced by crossbreeding — unlike, say, apples, which breeders have remixed into favorites like Fuji and Gala. But the vast majority of oranges in commercial groves are the product of a type of genetic merging that predates the Romans, in which a slender shoot of a favored fruit variety is grafted onto the sturdier roots of other species: lemon, for instance, or sour orange. And a seedless midseason orange recently adopted by Florida growers emerged after breeders bombarded a seedy variety with radiation to disrupt its DNA, a technique for accelerating evolution that has yielded new varieties in dozens of crops,including barley and rice.
因为橙子本身就是杂交的，大多数种子都是母体的克隆，用杂交的方式来产生新品种不太容易——这与苹果等水果不一样，苹果的育种师可以把它杂交成富士(Fuji)和嘎拉(Gala)等受欢迎的品种。但是，绝大多数商业果园中的橙子，都是一种基因合并的产物，这个过程早于罗马人：人们把喜欢的水果品种的细长枝芽，嫁接到其他物种（比如柠檬或酸橙）更粗壮的根部上。佛罗里达州种植者近年采用的一种无籽中季橙，是育种者用辐射破坏一个有籽品种的DNA培育出来的。这种加速进化的方法已经培育了几十种作物的新品种，包括大麦和水稻。
Its proponents argue that genetic engineering is one in a continuum of ways humans shape food crops, each of which carries risks: even conventional crossbreeding has occasionally produced toxic varieties of some vegetables. Because making a G.M.O. typically involves adding one or a few genes, each containing instructions for a protein whose function is known, they argue, it is more predictable than traditional methods that involve randomly mixing or mutating many genes of unknown function.
支持者们认为，基因工程是人类持续改造粮食作物的多种方式之一，每一种方式都有风险：就算是传统的杂交育种，偶尔也会培育出有毒品种，某些蔬菜就出现这种情况。由于培育转基因生物通常涉及添加一个或几个基因，而每个基因都包含针对某种功能已知的蛋白质的指令，而传统方法涉及随机混合或变异很多功能未知的基因，所以支持者们认为，转基因的结果比传统方法更容易预测。
But because it also usually involves taking DNA from the species where it evolved and putting it in another to which it may be only distantly related — or turning off genes already present — critics of the technology say it represents a new and potentially more hazardous degree of tinkering whose risks are not yet fully understood.
但是，由于它通常也涉及把DNA从其长期进化所在的物种取出，并将其放入另一个可能只是其远亲的物种——或是关掉原来存在的基因——所以该技术的批评者们说，这种方法代表着一种新的、潜在危险程度较高的操纵，其风险尚不完全清楚。
If he had had more time, Mr. Kress could have waited for the orange to naturally evolve resistance to the bacteria known as C. liberibacter asiaticus. That could happen tomorrow. Or it could take years, or many decades. Or the orange in Florida could disappear first.
如果有更充裕的时间，克雷斯可以等橙子自然进化出对韧皮部杆菌属、亚洲株系(C. liberibacter asiaticus)细菌的抵抗力。那可能明天就会发生。也有可能需要几年或几十年的时间。或者橙子可能先从佛罗里达消失。
Plunging Ahead
执意推进
Early discussions among other citrus growers about what kind of disease research they should collectively support did little to reassure Mr. Kress about his own genetic engineering project.
其他柑橘种植者讨论了他们应该联合起来支持哪种疾病研究，他们的早期讨论没有给克雷斯带来丝毫宽慰，让他对自己的基因工程项目放心。
“The public will never drink G.M.O. orange juice,” one grower said at a contentious 2008 meeting. “It’s a waste of our money.”
“公众永远不会喝转基因橙汁，”一个种植者在2008年一个激烈争论的会议上说，“这是在浪费我们的钱。”
“The public is already eating tons of G.M.O.’s,” countered Peter McClure, a big grower.
“公众已经在吃很多转基因食品了，”种植大户彼得·麦克卢尔(Peter McClure)反驳说。
“This isn’t like a bag of Doritos,” snapped another. “We’re talking about a raw product, the essence of orange.”
“这和一包多力多滋(Doritos)玉米片不一样，”另一个人不耐烦地说。“我们说的是一种鲜榨食品，是橙子的精华。”
The genetically modified foods Americans have eaten for more than a decade — corn, soybeans, some cottonseed oil, canola oil and sugar — come mostly as invisible ingredients in processed foods like cereal, salad dressing and tortilla chips. And the few G.M.O.’s sold in produce aisles — a Hawaiian papaya, some squash, a fraction of sweet corn — lack the iconic status of a breakfast drink that, Mr. Kress conceded, is “like motherhood” to Americans, who drink more of it per capita than anyone else.
美国人吃了十多年的转基因食品——玉米、大豆、某些棉籽油、菜籽油和糖——大多是加工过的食品（比如早餐谷类食物、沙拉酱和玉米片）中看不到的成分。而少数在农产品货架出售的转基因食物（一种夏威夷木瓜、某些南瓜、少量甜玉米）不具有橙汁这种早餐饮料所具有的偶像地位；克雷斯承认，对于美国人来说，橙汁有种“妈妈的感觉”，美国的人均饮用量超过其他任何国家。
If various polls were to be believed, a third to half of Americans would refuse to eat any transgenic crop. One study’s respondents would accept only certain types: two-thirds said they would eat a fruit modified with another plant gene, but few would accept one with DNA from an animal. Fewer still would knowingly eat produce that contained a gene from a virus.
如果各项民调可信的话，有三分之一到一半的美国人会拒绝吃任何转基因作物。一项研究的受访者只接受部分类型的转基因食品：三分之二的人说，他们会吃用另一种植物基因改良过的水果，但很少人会接受用动物DNA改良过的水果。在知情的情况下，愿意吃带有病毒基因的农产品的人就更少了。
There also appeared to be an abiding belief that a plant would take on the identity of the species from which its new DNA was drawn, like the scientist in the movie “The Fly” who sprouted insect parts after a DNA-mixing mistake with a house fly.
人们似乎有一种根深蒂固的信念，认为一种植物会出现赋予其新DNA的生物的特征，就像电影《变蝇人》里的科学家一样，他在自己的DNA不小心与一只苍蝇的融合之后，长出了昆虫的肢体。
Asked if tomatoes containing a gene from a fish would “taste fishy” in a question on a 2004 poll conducted by the Food Policy Institute at Rutgers University that referred to one company’s efforts to forge a frost-resistant tomato with a gene from the winter flounder, fewer than half correctly answered “no.” A fear that the genetic engineering of food would throw the ecosystem out of whack showed in the surveys too.
罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)食品政策研究所(Food Policy Institute)在2004年的一次民意测验中询问人们，包含鱼类基因的西红柿会不会“有鱼味”。这个问题指的是有一家公司试图利用美洲拟鲽的基因培育出一种抗冻西红柿。不到一半的人正确回答“不会”。民调还表明，人们担心对食物进行基因改造将会使整个生态系统陷入混乱。
Mr. Kress’s researchers, in turn, liked to point out that the very reason genetic engineering works is that all living things share a basic biochemistry: if a gene from a cold-water fish can help a tomato resist frost, it is because DNA is a universal code that tomato cells know how to read. Even the most distantly related species — say, humans and bacteria — share many genes whose functions have remained constant across billions of years of evolution.
而克雷斯的研究人员喜欢指出，基因改造之所以能够奏效，恰恰是因为万物有着同样的生物化学根基：如果说生活在冷水中的鱼的基因可以帮助西红柿抵御霜冻，那是因为DNA是一种通用密码，西红柿的细胞知道如何解码。就连相隔最遥远的物种——比如人类和细菌——都有很多共同的基因，虽然历经数十亿年的进化，这些基因的功能仍然没有改变。
“It’s not where a gene comes from that matters,” one researcher said. “It’s what it does.”
“重要的不是基因从何而来，”一名研究人员说，“而是它有何作用。”
Mr. Kress set the surveys aside.
克雷斯把这些调查放到了一边。
He took encouragement from other attempts to genetically modify foods that were in the works. There was even another fruit, the “Arctic apple,” whose genes for browning were switched off, to reduce waste and allow the fruit to be more readily sold sliced.
他从其他转基因食品的尝试得到了鼓舞。甚至还有另一种水果，称为“北极苹果”，它关掉了会使果肉变色的基因，以减少浪费，并让这种水果更易于切片销售。
“The public is going to be more informed about G.M.O.’s by the time we’re ready,” Mr. Kress told his research director, Michael P. Irey, as they lined up the five scientists whom Southern Gardens would underwrite. And to the scientists, growers and juice processors at a meeting convened by Minute Maid in Miami in early 2010, he insisted that just finding a gene that worked had to be his company’s priority.
“等我们准备好时，公众对GMO将会有更多了解，”克雷斯对研究总监迈克尔·P·艾里(Michael P. Irey)表示。他们遴选了南方花园公司将支持的五名科学家。2010年初，他在美汁源(Minute Maid)于迈阿密举行的一次会议上坚定地告诉科学家、种植者和果汁厂家，找到一个管用的基因必须成为公司的首要任务。
The foes were formidable. C. liberibacter, the bacterium that kills citrus trees by choking off their flow of nutrients — first detected when it destroyed citrus trees more than a century ago in China — had earned a place, along with anthrax and the Ebola virus, on the Agriculture Department’s list of potential agents of bioterrorism. Asian citrus psyllids, the insects that suck the bacteria out of one tree and inject them into another as they feed on the sap of their leaves, can carry the germ a mile without stopping, and the females can lay up to 800 eggs in their one-month life.
敌人十分可怕。掐断柑橘树营养物流动，最终杀死柑橘树的韧皮部杆菌属，被美国农业部(Agriculture Department)列为潜在的生物恐怖主义制剂，与炭疽杆菌和埃博拉病毒放在一起。它在一个多世纪以前在中国首次被发现，当时摧毁了中国的很多柑橘树。亚洲的柑橘树虱可以通过不间断飞行，把这种细菌带到一英里以外的地方（这种木虱在吸吮树叶的汁液时，会把细菌从一棵树里吸出来，注入另一棵树），而且雌虫可以在一个月的生命里产下多达800粒卵。
Mr. Kress’s DNA candidate would have to fight off the bacteria or the insect. As for public acceptance, he told his industry colleagues, “We can’t think about that right now.”
克雷斯要物色的理想DNA，必须能抵抗这种细菌或这种昆虫。至于公众能否接受的问题，他告诉业内的同事，“我们现在还无法考虑这个问题。”
The ‘Creep Factor’
“令人毛骨耸然的因素”
Trim, silver-haired and described by colleagues as tightly wound (he prefers “focused”), Mr. Kress arrives at the office by 6:30 each morning and microwaves a bowl of oatmeal. He stocks his office cabinet with cans of peel-top Campbell’s chicken soup that he heats up for lunch. Arriving home each evening, he cuts a rose from his garden for his wife. Weekends, he works in his yard and pores over clippings about G.M.O.’s in the news.
瘦削、一头银发的克雷斯被同事形容为高度紧张（他更喜欢“专注”这个词）。他每天早晨6时30分到办公室，用微波炉热一碗燕麦粥。他的办公室橱柜里放着很多金宝(Campbell)罐装鸡汤，他经常加热这些东西作为午餐。每晚回到家中，他都会从花园里剪下一支玫瑰送给太太。周末他会在院子里工作，专心阅读关于GMO的剪报。
For a man who takes pleasure in routine, the uncertainty that marked his DNA quest was disquieting. It would cost Southern Gardens millions of dollars just to perform the safety tests for a single gene in a single variety of orange. Of his five researchers’ approaches, he had planned to narrow the field to the one that worked best over time.
对于一个喜欢生活有规律的人来说，寻觅合适DNA的过程所伴随的不确定性令人不安。要为一个橙子品种的一个基因进行安全测试，南方花园柑橘公司就需要支出数百万美元。他曾计划，从五位研究人员的工作中挑选一种持续效果最好的转基因方案。
But in 2010, with the disease spreading faster than anyone anticipated, the factor that came to weigh most was which could be ready first.
然而，在2010年，鉴于柑橘黄龙病的传播速度快于任何人的预想，最关键的因素变成了哪个方案能最先投入实用。
To fight C. liberibacter, Dean Gabriel at the University of Florida had chosen a gene from a virus that destroys bacteria as it replicates itself. Though such viruses, called bacteriophages (“phage” means to devour), are harmless to humans, Mr. Irey sometimes urged Mr. Kress to consider the public relations hurdle that might come with such a strange-sounding source of the DNA. “A gene from a virus,” he would ask pointedly, “that infects bacteria?”
为了对抗韧皮部杆菌属，佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)的迪恩·加布里埃尔(Dean Gabriel)从一种病毒里选择了一种基因，它能在自我复制的过程中摧毁细菌。尽管这种被称为噬菌体(bacteriophages)的病毒对人体无害，但艾里有时敦促克雷斯考虑这种听上去古怪的DNA来源可能带来的公关障碍。他会意有所指地问，“一种来自病毒的基因，一种能感染细菌的病毒？”
But Mr. Kress’s chief concern was that Dr. Gabriel was taking too long to perfect his approach.
但克雷斯的主要担忧是，加布里埃尔博士在完善自己的方案上动作太慢了。
A second contender, Erik Mirkov of Texas A&M University, was further along with trees he had endowed with a gene from spinach — a food, he reminded Mr. Kress, that “we give to babies.” The gene, which exists in slightly different forms in hundreds of plants and animals, produces a protein that attacks invading bacteria.
第二种方案来自得克萨斯农工大学(Texas A&M University)的埃里克·米尔科夫(Erik Mirkov)，他把一种取自菠菜的基因加入柑橘树，并已取得更深入的进展。他提醒克雷斯说，菠菜是一种“我们喂给婴儿吃”的食物。这种基因以略微不同的形式存在于数百种植物和动物中，它会产生一种攻击入侵细菌的蛋白质。
Even so, Dr. Mirkov faced skepticism from growers. “Will my juice taste like spinach?” one asked.
即便如此，米尔科夫还是面临种植者的疑虑。一名种植者问道，“我的橙汁会有菠菜味儿吗？”
“Will it be green?” wondered another.
另一名种植者发问说，“橙汁会是绿的吗？”
“This gene,” he invariably replied, “has nothing to do with the color or taste of spinach. Your body makes very similar kinds of proteins as part of your own defense against bacteria.”
他总是这么回答，“这种基因和菠菜的颜色或味道毫无关系。你的体内也会生成与之极为相似的蛋白质，作为你抵御细菌的部分手段。”
When some of the scientist’s promising trees got sick in their first trial, Mr. Kress agreed that he should try to improve on his results in a new generation of trees, by adjusting the gene’s placement. But transgenic trees, begun as a single cell in a petri dish, can take two years before they are sturdy enough to place in the ground and many more years to bear fruit.
当这名科学家寄予厚望的一些柑橘树在第一次试验中得病后，克雷斯同意，他应该通过调整基因的植入方式，在新一代柑橘树上尝试取得更好结果。然而，转基因树最初只是有盖培养皿里的一个单一细胞，可能需要花上两年时间才足够粗壮，能够种在地里，然后花上多年时间才能结出果实。
“Isn’t there a gene,” Mr. Kress asked Mr. Irey, “to hurry up Mother Nature?”
克雷斯问艾里，“有没有一种基因，能加快自然的力量？”
For a time, the answer seemed to lie with a third scientist, William O. Dawson at the University of Florida, who had managed to alter fully grown trees by attaching a gene to a virus that could be inserted by way of a small incision in the bark. Genes transmitted that way would eventually stop functioning, but Mr. Kress hoped to use it as a stopgap measure to ward off the disease in the 60 million citrus trees already in Florida’s groves. Dr. Dawson joked that he hoped at least to save the grapefruit, whose juice he enjoyed, “preferably with a little vodka in it.”
答案一度似乎取决于第三名科学家、佛罗里达大学的威廉·O·道森(William O. Dawson)，他已成功改变了成熟柑橘树的基因，方法是把一种基因附带到一种病毒上，之后在树皮上切个小口，把病毒注入树内。通过这种方式转移的基因，最终会停止发挥效力，但克雷斯希望将其用作一种权宜之计，帮助佛罗里达州种植园里现有的6000万棵柑橘树抵御病害。道森博士开玩笑说，他希望至少能挽救葡萄柚，他喜欢葡萄柚汁，“最好再加点伏特加。”
But his most promising result that year was doomed from the beginning: of the dozen bacteria-fighting genes he had then tested on his greenhouse trees, the one that appeared effective came from a pig.
但他在那一年最有希望的成果从一开始就遭遇厄运：他在温室柑橘树上测试了数十种抗菌基因，而似乎有效的基因来自一头猪。
One of about 30,000 genes in the animal’s genetic code, it was, he ventured, “a pretty small amount of pig.”
这是组成猪的遗传密码的大约3万个基因之一。道森博士以试探的口吻说，它“只有一点点猪的成分”。
“There’s no safety issue from our standpoint — but there is a certain creep factor,” an Environmental Protection Agency official observed to Mr. Kress, who had included it on an early list of possibilities to run by the agency.
美国国家环保局(Environmental Protection Agency)的一名官员对克雷斯评论说，“从我们的视角看，不存在安全问题，不过这里有某种令人毛骨耸然的因素。”此前这名官员把这种基因列入环保局评审的早期可能性名单。
“At least something is working,” Mr. Kress bristled. “It’s a proof of concept.”
克雷斯恼火地说，“至少有奏效的方案。这是一种概念验证。”
A similar caution dimmed his hopes for the timely approval of a synthetic gene, designed in the laboratory of a fourth scientist, Jesse Jaynes of Tuskegee University. In a simulation, Dr. Jaynes’s gene consistently vanquished the greening bacteria. But the burden of proving a synthetic gene’s safety would prolong the process. “You’re going to get more questions,” Mr. Kress was told, “with a gene not found in nature.”
同样的谨慎让合成基因获得及时批准的希望变得渺茫。这种合成基因是由第四位科学家、塔斯基吉大学(Tuskegee University)的耶斯·杰尼斯(Jesse Jaynes)设计的。在一次模拟中，杰尼斯博士的基因持续战胜黄龙病细菌。不过，证明合成基因安全性的重担会延缓整个进程。克雷斯被告知，“对于一种自然界找不到的基因，你会面对更多问题。”
And in the fall of 2010, an onion gene that discouraged psyllids from landing on tomato plants was working in the Cornell laboratory of Mr. Kress’s final hope, Herb Aldwinckle. But it would be some time before the gene could be transferred to orange trees.
2010年秋，一种有助于阻止木虱落到西红柿植株上的洋葱基因在康奈尔大学的实验室里显示出效果，实验者是克雷斯最后的希望，赫伯·埃尔德温克尔(Herb Aldwinckle)。不过，要将这种基因转移到橘树上尚需时日。
Only Dr. Mirkov’s newly fine-tuned trees with the spinach gene, Mr. Kress and Mr. Irey agreed, could be ready in time to stave off what many believed would soon be a steep decline in the harvest. In the fall of 2010, they were put to the test inside a padlocked greenhouse stocked with infected trees and psyllids.
克雷斯和艾里一致认为，只有米尔科夫用菠菜基因改良的柑橘树，才有望来得及遏止很多人相信不久将出现的收成骤减。2010年秋，这种柑橘树接受测试，它们被放进一间紧锁的温室，里面放着被感染的树和木虱。
The Monsanto Effect
孟山都效应
Mr. Kress’s only direct brush so far with the broader battle raging over genetically modified food came in December 2010, in the reader comments on a Reuters article alluding to Southern Gardens’ genetic engineering efforts.
克雷斯迄今唯一一次卷入围绕转基因食品的大辩论是在2010年12月，当时读者对路透社(Reuters)一篇提到南方花园柑橘公司基因工程项目的文章踊跃发表评论。
Some readers vowed not to buy such “frankenfood.” Another attributed a rise in allergies to genetic engineering. And dozens lambasted Monsanto, the St. Louis-based company that dominates the crop biotechnology business, which was not even mentioned in the article.
一些读者誓言不买这种“恶魔食品”。还有一些读者把过敏症病例的增加归咎于基因工程。另外数十名读者抨击总部位于圣路易斯、主导着农作物生物科技行业的孟山都公司(Monsanto)，即便那篇文章根本没有提及该公司。
“If this trend goes on, one day, there will be only Monsanto engineered foods available,” read one letter warning of unintended consequences.
一封来信对意外后果发出警告，称“如果这种趋势继续下去，有朝一日，世界上将只有孟山都的转基因食品了。”
Mr. Kress was unperturbed. Dozens of long-term animal feeding studies had concluded that existing G.M.O.’s were as safe as other crops, and the National Academy of Sciences, the World Health Organization and others had issued statements to the same effect.
克雷斯不为所动。数十项长期动物饲养研究已经得出结论，现有的转基因食品和其他农作物一样安全。美国国家科学院(National Academy of Sciences)、世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)和其他机构发表了相似的声明。
But some of his researchers worried that the popular association between G.M.O.’s and Monsanto — and in turn between Monsanto and the criticisms of modern agriculture — could turn consumers against Southern Gardens’ transgenic oranges.
然而，克雷斯的一些研究人员担忧，公众眼里转基因食品和孟山都之间的关联，以及孟山都和现代化农业受到的批评之间的关联，可能导致消费者敌视南方花园公司的转基因橙子。
“The article doesn’t say ‘Monsanto’ anywhere, but the comments are all about Monsanto,” Dr. Mirkov said.
米尔科夫说，“那篇文章通篇未提及‘孟山都’，可所有的读者评论都扯到孟山都身上。”
It had not helped win hearts and minds for G.M.O.’s, Mr. Kress knew, that the first such crop widely adopted by farmers was the soybean engineered by Monsanto with a bacteria gene — to tolerate a weed killer Monsanto also made.
克雷斯知道，没有帮助转基因食品赢得人心的一件事是，农场主们广泛种植的第一种转基因农作物是孟山都用一种细菌基因改造的大豆，目的是使其能够承受孟山都制造的一种除草剂。
Starting in the mid-1990s, soybean farmers in the United States overwhelmingly adopted that variety of the crop, which made it easier for them to control weeds. But the subsequent broader use of the chemical — along with a distaste for Monsanto’s aggressive business tactics and a growing suspicion of a food system driven by corporate profits — combined to forge a consumer backlash. Environmental activists vandalized dozens of field trials and protested brands that used Monsanto’s soybeans or corn, introduced soon after, which was engineered to prevent pests from attacking it.
从上世纪90年代中期开始，绝大多数美国大豆种植者采用了这一品种的大豆，这让他们更易于控制野草。然而，随之而来的化学品用量加大，加上孟山都咄咄逼人的商业战术引发反感，同时人们对受企业利润驱动的食品体系日趋怀疑，结合在一起引发了消费者的反弹。环保活动人士蓄意破坏了数十块试验田，还抗议采用孟山都大豆或玉米的品牌。孟山都的转基因玉米是继大豆之后不久推出的，其基因改良的目的是阻止害虫侵袭。
In response, companies including McDonald’s, Frito-Lay and Heinz pledged not to use G.M.O. ingredients in certain products, and some European countries prohibited their cultivation.
作为回应，麦当劳(McDonald)、菲多利(Frito-Lay)和亨氏(Heinz)等公司承诺不会在某些产品中使用转基因成分，有些欧洲国家禁止种植转基因作物。
Some of Mr. Kress’s scientists were still fuming about what they saw as the lost potential for social good hijacked both by the activists who opposed genetic engineering and the corporations that failed to convince consumers of its benefits. In many developing countries, concerns about safety and ownership of seeds led governments to delay or prohibit cultivation of needed crops: Zambia, for instance, declined shipments of G.M.O. corn even during a 2002 famine.
与克雷斯合作的一些科学家仍对丧失潜在的社会公益感到愤怒，他们认为两方面都是绑架转基因事业的罪魁祸首：一面是反对基因工程的活动人士，另一面是未能说服消费者相信转基因食品有好处的企业。在许多发展中国家，对安全性和种子所有权的担忧导致政府推迟或禁止种植急需的农作物。例如，赞比亚甚至在2002年饥荒时期也拒绝接受转基因玉米。
”It’s easy for someone who can go down to the grocery store and buy anything they need to be against G.M.O.’s,” said Dr. Jaynes, who faced such barriers with a high-protein sweet potato he had engineered with a synthetic gene.
“对于那些能去食品店购买自己所需要的任何东西的人来说，反对转基因食品不是难事，”杰恩斯博士说。他利用合成基因培育的高蛋白红薯就面临着这种障碍。
To Mr. Kress in early 2011, any comparison to Monsanto — whose large blocks of patents he had to work around, and whose thousands of employees worldwide dwarfed the 750 he employed in Florida at peak harvest times — seemed far-fetched. If it was successful, Southern Gardens would hope to recoup its investment by charging a royalty for its trees. But its business strategy was aimed at saving the orange crop, whose total acreage was a tiny fraction of the crops the major biotechnology companies had pursued.
对于2011年初的克雷斯来说，与孟山都相提并论似乎是牵强的。他在工作时必须设法规避孟山都的大量专利，而孟山都在世界各地的数千名员工也使他在收割忙季雇佣的750名员工相形见绌。如果取得成功，南方花园公司希望通过收取其转基因树的特许使用费来收回投资。但是，其商业战略的宗旨是拯救橘树，其全部种植面积只是大型生物技术公司所追求的那些作物的一小部分。
He urged his worried researchers to look at the early success of Flavr Savr tomatoes. Introduced in 1994 and engineered to stay fresh longer than traditional varieties, they proved popular enough that some stores rationed them, before business missteps by their developer ended their production.
他敦促焦虑的研究员研究Flavr Savr西红柿早期取得的成功。这种西红柿在1994年推出，经过基因改造，它们的保鲜时间比传统品种更长。这种西红柿颇受欢迎，以至于有些商店实行限量销售，但是后来其开发者在商业上出现一些失误，导致这种西红柿停产。
And he was no longer alone in the pursuit of a genetically modified orange. Citrus growers were collectively financing research into a greening-resistant tree, and the Agriculture Department had also assigned a team of scientists to it. Any solution would have satisfied Mr. Kress. Almost daily, he could smell the burning of infected trees, which mingled with orange-blossom sweetness in the grove just beyond Southern Gardens’ headquarters.
此外，在寻求转基因橙子方面，他不再是孤军奋战。柑橘种植者集体资助相关研究，以求培育能抵御黄龙病的柑橘树，美国农业部也组建了一个科学家小组投入这方面的研究。任何解决方案都会让克雷斯满意。他几乎每天都能闻到焚烧受感染的柑橘树的气味，这种气味与南方花园公司总部外的果园里橙花的香甜味混合在一起。
A Growing Urgency
与日俱增的紧迫性
In an infection-filled greenhouse where every nontransgenic tree had showed symptoms of disease, Dr. Mirkov’s trees with the spinach gene had survived unscathed for more than a year. Mr. Kress would soon have 300 of them planted in a field trial. But in the spring of 2012, he asked the Environmental Protection Agency, the first of three federal agencies that would evaluate his trees, for guidance. The next step was safety testing. And he felt that it could not be started fast enough.
在饱和感染的温室中，每棵非转基因树木都出现了病害症状，而米尔科夫博士携带菠菜基因的树则在一年多里毫发未损。克雷斯很快就会有300棵树进行田间试种。但在2012年春，他要求环保局提供指导；在将要对他的转基因树进行评价的三家联邦机构中，环保局是第一家。下一步是安全性测试。他觉得该项测试越早开始越好。
Dr. Mirkov assured him that the agency’s requirements for animal tests to assess the safety of the protein produced by his gene, which bore no resemblance to anything on the list of known allergens and toxins, would be minimal.
米尔科夫博士向他保证，环保局对动物试验的要求将是很低的。进行动物试验是为了鉴定他植入的基因所产生的蛋白质的安全性，这种基因与已知的任何过敏原和毒素没有任何相似之处。
“It’s spinach,” he insisted. “It’s been eaten for centuries.”
“这是菠菜，”他坚称，“人们已经吃了几个世纪。”
Other concerns weighed on Mr. Kress that spring: growers in Florida did not like to talk about it, but the industry’s tripling of pesticide applications to kill the bacteria-carrying psyllid was, while within legal limits, becoming expensive and worrisome. One widely used pesticide had stopped working as the psyllid evolved resistance, and Florida’s citrus growers’ association was petitioning one company to lift the twice-a-season restrictions on spraying young trees — increasingly its only hope for an uninfected harvest.
那个春季，其他担忧也困扰着克雷斯：佛罗里达州的种植者不愿意谈论，但该行业为了杀死携带病菌的木虱，已将杀虫剂用量增至正常水平的三倍，虽然这仍在法律限制范围内，但此举正变得成本高昂，而且令人不安。随着木虱逐渐产生抗体，一种广泛使用的杀虫剂也不再有效。与此同时，佛罗里达州的柑橘种植者联盟正在敦促一家公司解除一季两次向幼树喷洒杀虫剂的限制——从而增加其在果树不受感染的情况下获得丰收的唯一希望。
Others in the industry who knew of Mr. Kress’s project were turning to him. He agreed to speak at the fall meeting of citrus growers in California, where the greening disease had just been detected. “We need to hear about the transgenic solution,” said Ted Batkin, the association’s director. But Mr. Kress worried that he had nothing to calm their fears.
了解克雷斯项目的业内其他人士正在向他求助。他同意在秋季的加州柑橘种植者大会上发言，该州刚发现黄龙病的踪迹。行业协会会长特德·巴特金(Ted Batkin)说，“我们需要听听转基因方案。”不过，克雷斯担心，他没有办法平息加州同行的担心。
And an increasingly vocal movement to require any food with genetically engineered ingredients to carry a “G.M.O.” label had made him uneasy.
而一场声势越来越大的运动让他感到不安，这场运动要求任何含有转基因成分的食品都要贴上“GMO”标签。
Supporters of one hotly contested California ballot initiative argued for labeling as a matter of consumer rights and transparency — but their advertisements often implied the crops were a hazard: one pictured a child about to take a joyful bite of a pest-resistant cob of corn, on which was emblazoned a question mark and the caption “Corn, engineered to grow its own pesticide.”
加州一项激烈争辩的表决倡议的支持者辩称，标签制度事关消费者权益和透明度，但他们投放的广告往往暗示转基因作物是有害健康的：其中一则广告显示一个孩子正要满心欢喜地咬一口抗虫害的转基因玉米，而玉米上醒目地打着一个问号，文字说明是“玉米，经过基因改造，自己能长出杀虫剂”。
Yet the gene that makes corn insect-resistant, he knew, came from the same soil bacterium long used by organic food growers as a natural insecticide.
然而，他知道，让玉米产生抗虫害特征的基因，来自有机食品种植者长期用作天然杀虫剂的同一种土壤细菌。
Arguing that the Food and Drug Administration should require labels on food containing G.M.O.’s, one leader of the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy group, cited “pink slime, deadly melons, tainted turkeys and BPA in our soup.”
倡导组织“环境工作组”(Environmental Working Group)的一名领导人以“粉红肉渣、致命的瓜类、被污染的火鸡和汤里的双酚A”为例，主张美国食品药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)应该要求含有转基因成分的食品贴上标签。
Mr. Kress attributed the labeling campaigns to the kind of tactic any industry might use to gain a competitive edge: they were financed largely by companies that sell organic products, which stood to gain if packaging implying a hazard drove customers to their own non-G.M.O. alternatives. He did not aim to hide anything from consumers, but he would want them to understand how and why his oranges were genetically engineered. What bothered him was that a label seemed to lump all G.M.O.’s into one stigmatized category.
克雷斯把呼吁贴标签的运动归因于任何行业为了获得竞争优势都可能会动用的战术：这些运动基本上是由销售有机食品的公司资助的——如果暗示转基因有危害的包装把顾客驱赶到它们生产的非转基因食品那一边，这些企业将获利。他无意向消费者隐瞒任何情况，但他希望消费者明白他的橙子接受基因改造的方式和原因。让他烦恼的是，标签制度似乎把所有转基因食品划为被污名化的一类。
And when the E.P.A. informed him in June 2012 that it would need to see test results for how large quantities of spinach protein affected honeybees and mice, he gladly wrote out the $300,000 check to have the protein made.
当美国环保局于2012年6月通知他，说他们需要看看测试结果，看大剂量的菠菜蛋白对蜜蜂和小鼠会有什么影响时，他愉快地开了一张30万美元的支票，投产这种蛋白。
It was the largest single expense yet in a project that had so far cost more than $5 million. If these tests raised no red flags, he would need to test the protein as it appears in the pollen of transgenic orange blossoms. Then the agency would want to test the juice.
在这个截至那时已耗费500多万美元的项目中，这是最大的单笔开销。如果这些试验没什么问题，他将需要测试转基因橘树花粉中的蛋白。然后，环保局将要求测试橙汁。
“Seems excessive,” Dr. Mirkov said.
米尔科夫说，“似乎有点过分。”
But Mr. Kress and Mr. Irey shared a sense of celebration. The path ahead was starting to clear.
但克雷斯和艾里都有点兴高采烈的感觉。前方的路开始清晰起来。
Rather than wait for Dr. Mirkov’s 300 trees to flower, which could take several years, they agreed to try to graft his spinach gene shoots to mature trees to hasten the production of pollen — and, finally, their first fruit, for testing.
他们没有等米尔科夫的300棵树开花，那可能要花上几年时间，而是同意把带有菠菜基因的幼芽嫁接到成熟的橘树上，以此加快花粉的产生——并且最终获得首批用于测试的橙子。
Wall of Opposition
反对之墙
Early one morning a year ago, Mr. Kress checked the Agriculture Department’s Web site from home. The agency had opened its 60-day public comment period on the trees modified to produce “Arctic apples” that did not brown.
一年前的一天清晨，克雷斯在家查看农业部的网站。农业部就结出不会变色的“北极苹果”的转基因果树启动了60天的公众评论期。
His own application, he imagined, would take a similar form.
他猜想，他自己的申请将经过类似的程序。
He skimmed through the company’s 163-page petition, showing how the apples are equivalent in nutritional content to normal apples, how remote was the likelihood of cross-pollination with other apple varieties and the potentially bigger market for a healthful fruit.
他快速浏览了该公司长达163页的陈情书，上面说明转基因苹果和普通苹果的营养成分如何相似，它和其他苹果品种发生交叉授粉的可能性有多小，以及这种健康的水果有望开辟更大市场。
Then he turned to the comments. There were hundreds. And they were almost universally negative. Some were from parents, voicing concerns that the nonbrowning trait would disguise a rotten apple — though transgenic apples rotten from infection would still turn brown. Many wrote as part of a petition drive by the Center for Food Safety, a group that opposes biotechnology.
然后他开始看评论。有数百条的评论。他们几乎全是负面的。一些评论来自父母，他们担忧，不变色的特性将会掩盖苹果腐烂的真相——尽管事实是因受感染而腐烂的转基因苹果仍会变色。许多评论是反对生物技术的组织——“食品安全中心”(Center for Food Safety)发起的请愿活动的一部分。
“Apples are supposed to be a natural, healthy snack,” it warned. “Genetically engineered apples are neither.”
该组织警告说，“苹果理应是自然健康的食品。转基因苹果既不自然、也不健康。”
Others voiced a general distrust of scientists’ guarantees: “Too many things were presented to us as innocuous and years later we discovered it was untrue,” wrote one woman. “After two cancers I don’t feel like taking any more unnecessary risks.”
其他人表示从总体上不信任科学家的保证：一名女子写道，“有太多号称无害的东西被介绍给我们，多年后我们发现，那不是实话。在患了两次癌症之后，我不愿尝试任何不必要的风险。”
Many insisted that should the fruit be approved, it ought to be labeled.
许多人坚持认为，如果这种水果得到批准，那它必须被打上标签。
That morning, Mr. Kress drove to work late. He should not be surprised by the hostility, he told himself.
那个早晨，克雷斯很晚才开车去上班。他对自己说，这种敌意不应该让他感到震惊。
Mr. Irey tried to console him with good news: the data on the honeybees and mice had come back. The highest dose of the protein the E.P.A. wanted tested had produced no ill effect.
艾里设法用好消息安慰她：蜜蜂和小鼠的实验数据已经出来。即使是环保局想要测试的最大剂量蛋白质，也没有产生不良后果。
But the magnitude of the opposition had never hit Mr. Kress so hard. “Will they believe us?” he asked himself for the first time. “Will they believe we’re doing this to eliminate chemicals and we’re making sure it’s safe? Or will they look at us and say, ‘That’s what they all say?’ ”
可是，反对的声浪从未像现在这样沉重打击克雷斯。他头一次自问，“他们会相信我们吗？他们会相信，我们这么做是为了不用化学品，而且我们正努力确保它是安全的？还是说，他们会看着我们说，‘他们都是这么说的’？”
The major brands were rumored to be looking beyond Florida for their orange juice — perhaps to Brazil, where growers had taken to abandoning infected groves to plant elsewhere. Other experiments that Mr. Kress viewed as similar to his own had foundered. Pigs engineered to produce less-polluting waste had been euthanized after their developer at a Canadian university had failed to find investors. A salmon modified to grow faster was still awaiting F.D.A. approval. A study pointing to health risks from G.M.O.’s had been discredited by scientists, but was contributing to a sense among some consumers that the technology is dangerous.
传言称，各大品牌正在佛罗里达州以外——也许是巴西——寻找橙汁货源。巴西的种植者放弃受感染的果园，到其他地方重新种植。克雷斯认为和自己的努力类似的一些实验已经陷入困境。为了减小排泄物的污染程度而接受基因改造的猪，已经被实施了安乐死，原因是它们在加拿大一所大学的研发者找不到投资人。一种能够生长得更快的转基因三文鱼还在等待美国食品药品管理局的审批。一项声称转基因食品具有健康风险的研究受到科学家们的质疑，但还是加剧了一些消费者认为这种技术危险的感觉。
And while the California labeling measure had been defeated, it had spawned a ballot initiative in Washington State and legislative proposals in Connecticut, Vermont, New Mexico, Missouri and many other states.
尽管加利福尼亚州的标签制度提案被挫败，但相关努力已导致华盛顿州将举行投票表决，康涅狄格州、佛蒙特州、新墨西哥州、密苏里州和其他许多州也提出了立法提案。
In the heat of last summer, Mr. Kress gardened more savagely than his wife had ever seen.
在去年夏天的酷暑中，克雷斯辛勤地在果园劳作，他的妻子从未看到他这么辛苦。
Driving through the Central Valley of California last October to speak at the California Citrus Growers meeting, Mr. Kress considered how to answer critics. Maybe even a blanket “G.M.O.” label would be O.K., he thought, if it would help consumers understand that he had nothing to hide. He could never prove that there were no risks to genetically modifying a crop. But he could try to explain the risks of not doing so.
去年10月，当克雷斯驱车穿过加州中部山谷，前往加州柑橘种植者大会发表讲话时，他思考着该如何回答批评者。他想，也许一种笼统的“转基因”标签是可以接受的——如果这能帮助消费者理解他没什么要隐瞒的话。他永远也无法证明，对某种作物实施转基因操作是没有风险的。然而，他可以试图解释，不这么做会有什么风险。
Southern Gardens had lost 700,000 trees trying to control the disease, more than a quarter of its total. The forecast for the coming spring harvest was dismal. The approval to use more pesticide on young trees had come through that day. At his hotel that night, he slipped a new slide into his standard talk.
为了控制黄龙病，南方橘园已经失去了70万株果树，超出其果树总数的四分之一。对来年的春季收成的预测很糟糕。就在那天，对果树幼苗使用更多农药的做法得到批准。当晚，克雷斯在酒店里给他的标准发言稿加入了一张新的幻灯片。
On the podium the next morning, he talked about the growing use of pesticides: “We’re using a lot of chemicals, pure and simple,” he said. “We’re using more than we’ve ever used before.”
第二天早上，他在讲台上谈到了人们正越来越多地使用农药：“一句话，我们正在大量使用化学品，”他说，“我们现在的使用量超过以往任何时候。”
Then he stopped at the new slide. Unadorned, it read “Consumer Acceptance.” He looked out at the audience.
然后，他打出了新的幻灯片。这张幻灯片很简单，未作任何修饰，上面写着“消费者接受度。”他的目光转向台下。
What these growers wanted most, he knew, was reassurance that he could help them should the disease spread. But he had to warn them: “If we don’t have consumer confidence, it doesn’t matter what we come up with.”
他知道，这些种植者最想要的就是得到保证：如果病害扩散，他可以帮助他们。但他必须警告他们：“如果消费者对我们没有信心，我们拿出什么都没用。”
Planting
种植
One recent sunny morning, Mr. Kress drove to a fenced field, some distance from his office and far from any other citrus tree. He unlocked the gate and signed in, as required by Agriculture Department regulations for a field trial of a genetically modified crop.
不久前一个阳光明媚的早晨，克雷斯驾车来到一个有围栏的果园。那里离他的办公室有一段距离，与其它任何果园相距更远。他打开大门，按照农业部关于转基因作物田间试验规定的要求，签字进入园内。
Just in the previous few months, Whole Foods had said that because of customer demand it would avoid stocking most G.M.O. foods and require labels on them by 2018. Hundreds of thousands of protesters around the world had joined in a “March Against Monsanto” — and the Agriculture Department had issued its final report for this year’s orange harvest showing a 9 percent decline from last year, attributable to citrus greening.
就在几个月前，全食超市公司(Whole Foods)表示，应顾客要求，该公司不会销售绝大部分转基因食品，并且要求供应商在2018年前给这些食品贴上标签。世界各地的数十万名抗议者参加了“抗议孟山都游行”。农业部发布了今年橙子收成的最终报告，称由于受柑橘黄龙病影响，收成较去年减少9%。
But visiting the field gave him some peace. In some rows were the trees with no new gene in them, sick with greening. In others were the 300 juvenile trees with spinach genes, all healthy. In the middle were the trees that carried his immediate hopes: 15 mature Hamlins and Valencias, seven feet tall, onto which had been grafted shoots of Dr. Mirkov’s spinach gene trees.
但是，参观果园让他内心稍感平静。有几排没有植入新基因的果树患上了黄龙病，而旁边300棵带有菠菜基因的树苗都很健康。果园中央的那些树承载着他最紧迫的希望：15棵成熟的哈姆林橘树和瓦伦西亚橘树，高7英尺（约2.13米），它们都嫁接了米尔科夫博士的菠菜基因树的树芽。
There was good reason to believe that the trees would pass the E.P.A.’s tests when they bloom next spring. And he was gathering the data the Agriculture Department would need to ensure that the trees posed no risk to other plants. When he had fruit, the Food and Drug Administration would compare its safety and nutritional content to conventional oranges.
有很好的理由相信，在明年春天开花的时候，这些果树将通过环保局的测试。同时他正在收集农业部要求的一些数据，以确保这些果树不会给其他植物造成风险。当他摘下橙子后，美国食品药品管理局将在安全性和营养成分方面，把它们跟普通的橙子做比较。
In his office is a list of groups to contact when the first G.M.O. fruit in Florida are ready to pick: environmental organizations, consumer advocates and others. Exactly what he would say when he finally contacted them, he did not know. Whether anyone would drink the juice from his genetically modified oranges, he did not know.
他的办公室里有一份清单，上面列着各种组织：环保组织、消费者维权组织等等。当佛罗里达州的首批转基因橙子可以采摘时，他将联系所有这些组织。他还不知道最终与它们联系时，自己会说些什么。他也不知道是否会有人会喝这种转基因橙子的橙汁。
But he had decided to move ahead.
但他已决定继续向前推进。
Late this summer he will plant several hundred more young trees with the spinach gene, in a new greenhouse. In two years, if he wins regulatory approval, they will be ready to go into the ground. The trees could be the first to produce juice for sale in five years or so.
今年夏末，他将在一个新的温室里种植几百株有菠菜基因的树苗。如果他获得监管部门的批准，在两年内，这些树苗就可以移植到地里了。它们有可能在五年左右长成第一批结出橙子、榨汁销售的橘树。
Whether it is his transgenic tree, or someone else’s, he believed, Florida growers will soon have trees that could produce juice without fear of its being sour, or in short supply.
他认为，无论是他的转基因树，还是别人的，佛罗里达州的种植者很快就会有能够供应橙汁的健康橘树，不必担心橙汁有酸味，也不必担心供应紧缺。
For a moment, alone in the field, he let his mind wander.
独自在地里时，他放任自己的思绪飞扬片刻。
“Maybe we can use the technology to improve orange juice,” he could not help thinking. “Maybe we can find a way to have oranges grow year-round, or get two for every one we get now on a tree.”
“也许我们可以利用这种技术来改善橙汁，”他不禁想。“也许我们能找到一种方法，让橙子全年结果，或者让一棵树结出两倍于目前水平的果子。”
Then he reined in those thoughts.
然后他收起这些思绪。
He took the clipboard down, signed out and locked the gate.
他放下剪贴板，签字离开果园，并锁上了门。