BANGKOK — For their newscast last week, the hosts of “Shallow News in Depth” invited three dancers dressed in the style of the ancient Thai royal court to offer a musical tribute to the head of Thailand’s army: a gesture of appreciation for his apparent refusal to launch a coup.
曼谷——在上周“肤浅新闻深度报道”(Shallow News in Depth)节目里，主持人请来三名穿成古代泰国王室人物模样的舞者，向泰国军队领导人献上了一出音乐剧：这是对他所表现出的拒绝政变态度的一种答谢。
Gyrating to an incongruous Thai country song, the cast blew kisses to the camera and shouted in unison: “We love you, army chief! Kiss kiss!”
舞者在不搭调的泰国乡村歌曲伴奏下旋转着，对摄像机飞吻，齐声喊道：“我们爱您，司令！亲亲！”
Founded by two Thai-Americans, “Shallow News in Depth” is a low-budget weekly program posted to YouTube that employs a type of Western humor not common in Thailand — acid-laced sarcasm — and draws on the deep well of paradoxes, absurdities and mangled logic of Thailand’s otherwise deadly serious political crisis.
“肤浅新闻深度报道”是由两位泰裔美国人创办的低成本节目，每周上传到YouTube，节目有一种在泰国不常见的西式幽默——尖酸刻薄的讽刺——并从原本一本正经的泰国政治危机中不断涌现的自相矛盾、荒诞不经和混乱逻辑中寻找素材。
The show has been running for five years but has seen its viewership soar into the hundreds of thousands in recent months as the crisis has escalated.
这个节目已经播出了五年，但是最近几个月危机升级后，观众规模蹿升到了数十万。
“If you take seriously everything happening in Thai society, you will go mad,” said Winyu Wongsurawat, the co-host of the show.
“对泰国社会发生的这些事情不能太当真，否则会把人逼疯的，”节目主持人之一温育·旺素拉瓦(Winyu Wongsurawat)说。
Irony is in plentiful supply in Thailand today: A billionaire tycoon is praised as the champion of the poor. A scandal-tainted politician leads a mass movement against corruption. Protesters declare that they need to block elections to save democracy.
今天的泰国可以说是充满了反讽。一个亿万富豪会被誉为穷人之王。一个丑闻缠身的政客可以领导一场大规模的反腐败运动。抗议者宣称他们要用封阻选举来拯救民主。
The show has drawn inevitable comparisons to “The Daily Show,” the satirical American news show anchored by Jon Stewart.
不出意外地，有人拿乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)主持的美国讽刺新闻节目“每日秀”(The Daily Show)和它作比较。
“Shallow News in Depth” follows a similar format of celebrity interviews, commentary on news and humorous dispatches by reporters on the streets of Bangkok.
“肤浅新闻深度报道”因循了类似的名人访谈、新闻点评形式，还有派往曼谷街头的记者发回的幽默报道。
But with its ultrafast, chaotic pacing and its silly antics, “Shallow News in Depth” is “Jon Stewart on crack,” in the words of The Bangkok Post, an English-language newspaper.
但是考虑到它那飞快、混乱的节奏和傻乎乎的滑稽场面，“肤浅新闻深度报道”用英文报纸《曼谷邮报》(The Bangkok Post)的话说应该是“磕了药的乔恩·斯图尔特”。
Mr. Winyu, whose nickname is John, founded the show with his sister, Janya Wongsurawat, the lead writer. Both say doing the show is a type of comedic therapy for a crisis that is wrecking friendships, splitting apart families and raising blood pressure in a land once known for gentle smiles and a knack for compromise.
昵称“约翰”(John)的温育和姐姐、首席作者珍雅·旺素拉瓦(Janya Wongsurawat)共同创办了这个节目。两人都说，在这场令朋友反目、亲人成仇的危机中，曾经以温和的微笑和乐于退让而著称的国度变得箭弩拔张，他们做这个节目就像是一种喜剧心理治疗。
Mr. Winyu spends hours flipping through Thai news broadcasts to glean material for the show. He says he is rarely disappointed.
温育会花上几个小时在泰国新闻广播里搜寻节目素材。他说他很少会空手而归。
“I was watching television two nights ago, and someone was saying that an election was the equivalent of overthrowing democracy,” Mr. Winyu said in an interview in the small, threadbare office that serves as the show’s recording studio. “I was thinking, ‘What? How have we reached this stage?’ “
“两天前的夜里，我在看电视，有个人说举行选举就等于在颠覆民主，”温育在一个破旧的小办公室里接受采访时说，这个地方同时也是节目录制间。“我当时想，‘啊？我们怎么会落到这步田地？”
Thai politics have become such a circus that reality can be hard to trump.
泰国政治已经变成了一场闹剧，真相在这里很难占优。
Protesters in Bangkok are vowing to overthrow the government and banish from Thai politics the prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, and her billionaire brother, the still-influential former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra, whose populist policies have made him a hero to many of Thailand’s poor. They are indeed opposing the current election and doing all they can to thwart it.
曼谷的抗议人士发誓要推翻政府，把总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)和她的亿万富翁兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)驱逐出泰国政坛，身为前总理的他信至今仍很有影响力，他的亲民政策使他成为许多泰国穷人心中的英雄。抗议者已经在切实地抵制当前的选举，并竭尽所能要阻挠它的进行。
They have taken over major intersections in Bangkok and blocked people from voting in a number of districts in the city and southern Thailand, enough disruption to delay the election process for weeks, if not months.
他们占领了曼谷的一些主要路口，在市内一些街区以及泰国南部等地阻止人们前去投票，造成的干扰已经足以让选举进度推迟几周甚至几个月。
In the meantime, Thailand is deadlocked and lacks a fully functioning government.
与此同时，泰国正处在僵持不下的局面，缺少一个能全面运转的政府。
The cast of “Shallow News in Depth,” which is also hosted by Nattapong Tiendee, an electrical engineer by training, say they are equal-opportunity insulters. The show has ridiculed protesters for calling themselves the “great mass of the people” while blocking elections they knew they would lose. It mocks the protesters’ ceaseless habit of taking “selfies” while protesting.
包括另一位主持人、电气工程师出身的纳塔蓬·天迪(Nattapong Tiendee)在内的“肤浅新闻深度报道”节目组认为，他们在选择攻击对象时是一视同仁的。节目嘲笑抗议者一边自称“广大民众”，一边又阻挠他们知道肯定会输的选举。它还拿抗议者在参加抗议活动时无休止的“自拍”行为开玩笑。
It portrays Mr. Thaksin, who is in self-exile after being overthrown in a 2006 military coup that helped kick off the present cycle of turmoil, as a satellite orbiting the country.
在2006年军事政变中被推翻后主动流亡海外的他信在节目中被描绘成一个绕着国家转的卫星。正是这场政变启动了眼下的这轮政治风暴。
And it constantly pokes fun at the country’s color wars. Mr. Thaksin’s supporters are known as red shirts, while the movement to oust him was led by so-called yellow shirts. (The crisis has also spawned groups known as black shirts, white shirts and multicolored shirts.) Mr. Winyu once conducted an interview bare-chested to drive home the point that he was not taking sides.
它不断取笑这个国家的颜色战争。他信的支持者人称“红衫军”，而推翻他的运动是由所谓的“黄衫军”领导的。（这场危机还催生了黑衫军、白衫军以及彩衫军等团体。）温育有一次光着上身做了采访，以表明不站队的立场。
“We are not to be taken seriously,” he said. “We are just clowns.”
“不用把我们太当真，”他说，“我们只是些小丑。”
Yet underlying the show’s relentless satire and sarcasm are strong doses of social criticism and civics lessons.
然而在无休止的讽刺和挖苦背后，这个节目也带着强烈的社会批判和公民教育色彩。
The show turned profitable three years ago, said Mr. Nattapong, who manages the business side. Other Internet endeavors the trio have begun make more money, including their most lucrative show, “Beauty Guru,” which offers tips on how to apply makeup.
纳塔蓬说，节目在三年前已经开始盈利，他负责节目的商业事务。三人的其他互联网生意要更挣钱一些，其中利润最丰厚的是讲授化妆技巧的“美颜大师”(Beauty Guru)。
Running the show on YouTube gives them freedom from the corporate pressures and self-censorship of Thai television networks, Ms. Janya said.
珍雅说，把节目放在YouTube上播出，让他们可以免受泰国电视网中的企业压力和自我审查。
“We would have to tone it down a lot to make it acceptable for TV,” she said. But there are still taboos. Ms. Janya says the show does not touch the subject of the monarchy; laws protecting the royal family have been broadly interpreted by courts in recent years, and penalties can be severe.
“要想在电视上播出，我们就得低调很多，”她说。但是目前这样也还是有禁忌的。珍雅说他们不会去碰君主政体这个话题；近年来法院就王室受到的法律保护进行了广泛的解释，惩罚是非常严厉的。
The political crisis has been comedic gold, she says, but some Thais are so weary of the crisis that they are eager to disengage from politics altogether.
她说政治危机曾经是喜剧的金矿，但这场危机实在令一些泰国人深感厌倦，以至于他们渴望彻底远离政治。
“How many times can you feature people saying these ridiculous things?” she said.
“像这样把满嘴胡扯的人作为中心的节目还能做多久？”她说。
“Nobody is shocked anymore.”
“大家对一切都见怪不怪了。”