OAKLAND, Calif. — Growing up in Beijing as the daughter of a physicist, the writer Yiyun Li seemed destined for a career in science. But she would surreptitiously read from “this big book of Tang dynasty poetry,” she said, while “pretending to do math.” Years later, studying for a Ph.D. in immunology at the University of Iowa, she adopted a similar strategy, reading short stories clipped from The New Yorker as she did lab work.
加州奥克兰——作家李翊云在北京长大，身为一位物理学家的女儿，她似乎注定要从事科​​学研究。但她说她会“假装在学数学”，其实在偷偷读“一本厚厚的唐诗集”。多年后，她在艾奥瓦大学(University of Iowa)攻读免疫学博士学位时故伎重演：在实验室看起了《纽约客》(The New Yorker)上剪下来的短篇小说。
“My parents were very much against writing and even very much against me reading literature, which they thought put wrong thoughts in your head,” she recalled recently at her home in a leafy hillside neighborhood here. “I don’t think they liked me reading anything but science. But I enjoyed literature always, from the beginning.”
“我父母非常反对我写作，甚至非常反对我读文学书籍，他们认为这些东西会给你灌输错误的思想，”她近日在家中回忆说，她的家在奥克兰一个绿树成荫的山腰住宅区里。“我觉得他们就希望我只看科学书籍。但我从小就喜欢文学。”
Ms. Li finally heeded that siren call about a dozen years ago, abandoning medicine and enrolling in the renowned writing program at Iowa. Since then, she has published two highly praised short-story collections, written a pair of novels, won a MacArthur Foundation “genius grant” and been named to various lists of “best young American writers,” feats made all the more remarkable by her history: When she arrived in the United States, in 1996, she had written nothing in either Chinese or English, a language she could speak, if not yet colloquially.
十几年前，李翊云终于禁不住诱惑，弃医从文，报名参加了艾奥瓦大学著名的写作计划。自那之后，她已经出版了两本备受赞誉的短篇小说集，写了两部长篇小说，获得了麦克阿瑟基金会(MacArthur Foundation)的“天才奖”，并入选多个“最佳美国年轻作家”名单，她的经历令这些成就愈发显得惊人：1996年到美国时，她还从未用中文或英文写过任何作品，当时她会说英语，但不太口语化。
“She’s an interesting case for a writer writing in a second language,” said John Freeman, a former editor of Granta, which named Ms. Li, now 41, to its best young novelist list. “There’s an elegance and smoothness to her writing that is actually disguising the quite passionate and intense feelings of equivocation and loss that her characters feel. She’s almost a 19th-century writer: You can feel tradition speaking through her work in a way that doesn’t exist today.”
“她是作家用第二语言写作的一个有趣例子，”曾在《格兰塔》(Granta)杂志任编辑的约翰·弗里曼(John Freeman)说。现年41岁的李翊云被该杂志选入“最佳青年小说家”之列。“她的文字优雅而流畅，其实是在掩盖她的人物所感受到的暧昧与迷失，那是一些相当暴躁而剧烈的感受。她几乎是一个19世纪作家：在她的作品中，你可以感受到传统以一种今天不复存在的方式在发挥影响。”
Ms. Li’s latest novel, “Kinder Than Solitude,” out this week from Random House, shifts between China and the United States. Its four main characters start out as adolescent friends growing up around a Beijing courtyard. After the oldest is poisoned, perhaps by one of the others, the survivors drift apart: One becomes a prosperous but soulless businessman riding China’s economic boom, while the other two flee to America, settling in college towns like Berkeley, Madison and Cambridge but never quite learning how to fit in.
李翊云的最新小说《比孤独更温暖》(Kinder Than Solitude)本周由兰登书屋(Random House)发行，故事在中国和美国两地间转换。在小说开始，四个主角还是青少年，他们在北京的一座四合院里长大。最年长一个的朋友中毒身亡后，剩下三个人渐行渐远，而投毒者可能是他们中的一个。三个人中一个成为富有但没有灵魂的商人，在中国的经济繁荣中飞黄腾达，另外两人远走美国，定居在像伯克利、麦迪逊和坎布里奇这样的大学城中，但却从来没有真正适应那里的生活。
Because of these immigrant touches, Ms. Li is often grouped with novelists like Junot Díaz, Edwidge Danticat, Jhumpa Lahiri, Gary Shteyngart and her friend Daniel Alarcón as a first-generation “new American” writer. But she is quick to point out that her circumstances are rather different: She came to the United States as an adult, not a child, and did not grow up bilingual.
由于有这样的移民元素，人们经常把李翊云跟朱诺·迪亚斯(Junot Díaz)、爱德薇芝·丹蒂卡(Edwidge Danticat)、裘帕·拉希莉(Jhumpa Lahiri)、加里·斯坦加尔特(Gary Shteyngart)，以及她的朋友丹尼尔·阿拉尔孔(Daniel Alarcón)这样的小说家一起称为第一代“新美国人”作家。但她立即指出，自己的情况大不相同：她来到美国的时候已经成年，不再是孩子，她并不是在双语环境中长大的。
“I actually don’t know what an immigrant writer should be writing about,” she said, “and if you look at my characters, they don’t struggle as immigrants. They actually do fairly well. If they want, they can have a good life. It’s more that they have to deal with their internal struggles” and the problems they bring with them from China.
“其实我不知道移民作家应该写些什么，”她说，“如果你看一下我作品中的人物，就会发现他们没有移民那样的挣扎。实际上他们过得相当不错。如果他们愿意，本来可以拥有美好的生活。他们更多地是在面对自己的内心挣扎，”面对他们从中国带来的问题。
Ms. Li, however, seems to have adapted smoothly to the American suburbs. She teaches writing at the University of California, Davis, and described a routine of ferrying her sons, Vincent and James, to music lessons and sports; her husband, Dapeng Li, who was her college sweetheart back in China, is a software engineer at the Pandora music service.
不过，李翊云似乎很顺利地适应了美国的郊区生活。她在加州大学戴维斯分校教写作课，她还谈到送儿子文森特(Vincent)和詹姆斯(James)去上音乐课和参加体育活动的日常安排。丈夫李大鹏（音译）是她在中国读大学时的恋人，目前在Pandora音乐服务公司当软件工程师。
“Every time I go to the orthodontist’s office, I say, ‘This is my American life,’ ” she said with a laugh.
“每次我去整牙医生的办公室时，我都会说，‘这就是我的美国生活，’”她笑着说。
Her friend Brigid Hughes, who, as editor of The Paris Review, was the first to publish one of Ms. Li’s stories, said, “She’s very stubborn about wanting to be defined on her own terms, to be an individual and not be defined by society, history or even her native language.”
她的朋友布里吉德·休斯(Brigid Hughes)是美国文学杂志《巴黎评论》(The Paris Review)的编辑，就是他最早刊登了李翊云的短篇小说。休斯说，“她想要用自己的方式定义自己，而不是被社会、历史，甚至她的母语所定义，对此她非常执着。”
“Kinder Than Solitude” signals a departure for Ms. Li, by also including American characters. Her first novel, “The Vagrants,” published in 2009, was set in an entirely Chinese universe, a bleak provincial city called Muddy River (modeled after her husband’s hometown), shortly after the death of Chairman Mao. In The New York Times Book Review, Pico Iyer described the book as “grieving and unremitting,” peopled by “victims of a crippled society that has effectively outlawed humanity and made innocence a crime.”
《比孤独更温暖》中也有美国人角色，显示李翊云在进行新的尝试。她的首部长篇小说是2009年出版的《漂泊者》(The Vagrants)，故事完全以中国为背景，发生在一个名叫泥河（Muddy River，以她丈夫的家乡为蓝本）的地方城市，时间是毛主席逝世后不久。在《纽约时报》书评中，皮科·耶尔(Pico Iyer)称这本书“悲伤而坚韧”，里面的人是“一个瘫痪社会的受害者，这个社会实际上已经放逐了人性，令清白成为一种罪过。”
Though Ms. Li is wary of being labeled a political writer, the great upheavals of modern Chinese history loom in the background of her work. Civil war, wars with Japan, the Great Leap Forward, the Cultural Revolution: These events are rarely in the foreground of her books, but they limit and often blight her characters’ lives, preventing them from marrying whom they wish, living where they want or pursuing the professions they’d like.
虽然李翊云很小心，不愿被贴上政治作家的标签，但中国近现代历史的动荡不安却在其作品的背景中若隐若现。内战、抗日战争、大跃进时期、文化大革命：这些事件很少成为其作品的前景，但它们限制了——往往还摧残了——书中角色的生活，让他们无法跟意中人共结连理，无法在自己想去的地方生活，无法追求自己想要的事业。
“Her writing comes from a very personal place, but I think of it as particularly political, even though it may not be explicitly so,” said the San Francisco-based film director Wayne Wang, who has twice made movies from short stories by Ms. Li (“A Thousand Years of Good Prayers” and “The Princess of Nebraska”). “Chinese history in the last 100 years has been so suppressed and ignored in different ways that any character will be political, and if you don’t deal with that, you’re not dealing with a complete Chinese person. But I like the way she does it, indirectly, with craft and creativity.”
“她的作品来自非常个人化的层面，但我认为其中的政治色彩极为浓重，尽管不见得很露骨，”在旧金山生活的电影导演王颖(Wayne Wang)说。他两次执导了李翊云的短篇小说改编的电影（《千年敬祈》[A Thousand Years of Good Prayers]与《内布拉斯加公主》[The Princess of Nebraska]）。“在过去100年里，中国历史遭到了种种不同的压抑和忽视，因此任何人物都会带有政治色彩，不去面对这一点，就不是在面对一个完整的中国人。但我喜欢她的处理方式，一种精心打磨且富有创造性的间接方式。”
Ms. Li was born in the full heat of the Cultural Revolution, but by the time she was learning to read, some foreign literature was again becoming available. In China, she read politically palatable novelists like Dickens, Theodore Dreiser and Jack London, but it wasn’t until she arrived in the United States that she discovered the writers she now cites as influences and inspirations, many of them specialists in the short-story form she especially likes: her mentor William Trevor, Elizabeth Bowen, V. S. Pritchett, Elizabeth McCracken, Amy Bloom. Russians are another big influence, especially Tolstoy, Turgenev and Chekhov.
李翊云出生在文革的狂热期，不过到她学习阅读的时候，已经又可以找到一些外国文学了。她在中国读了一些政治上能被接受的小说家的作品，比如狄更斯、西奥多·德莱赛(Theodore Dreiser)和杰克·伦敦(Jack London)。然而，许多如今被她引为影响和灵感来源的作家是来到美国后才发现的，里面有不少人长于她偏爱的短篇小说：她的导师威廉·特雷弗(William Trevor)、伊丽莎白·鲍恩(Elizabeth Bowen)、V·S·普里切特(V. S. Pritchett)、伊丽莎白·麦克拉肯(Elizabeth McCracken)，以及艾米·布卢姆(Amy Bloom)。俄罗斯作家也对她产生了巨大影响，尤其是托尔斯泰、屠格涅夫和契诃夫。
Ms. Li said that when she lived in China, she did not write anything in Chinese, except a journal she kept as a teenager. “Just because you know a language doesn’t mean you can it express it well,” she said. Even now, though most of her characters are Chinese, when she hears them talking in her head, they are speaking English, a mystery she cannot explain.
李翊云说，她在中国生活时，并未以中文写作，只是在十几岁时写过日记。她说，“仅仅因为懂一门语言，并不意味着能用它自如地表达。”就算到了现在，尽管她笔下的人物大多是中国人，但是当她在头脑里构思对话时，这些人物讲的也是英文。这是个她无法解释的谜团。
Writing in English “felt very natural to me very fast,” she said. “I think in English, I dream in English. I came to English as a grown-up, which is probably to my advantage. The disadvantage is that you don’t have that intimacy with the language, there are things you just miss with the language.”
她说，用英文写作“很快就让我觉得很自然”。“我用英语思考，用英语做梦。我成年后才来到英语世界，这很可能是我的优势。劣势在于，跟这种语言没有那种亲密感，里头的某些东西就是缺失了。”
The writer Amy Leach, a classmate at Iowa and still a close friend, said, “We’ve talked about how it can be an advantage not to have all those ready-made clichés springing to your mind and precluding more original thinking and wording.”
作家埃米·利奇(Amy Leach)是她在艾奥瓦的同学，两人至今仍是亲密的朋友。利奇说，“我们谈到过其中的好处，脑袋里不会冒出那些现成的老套东西，让你无法运用原创性更强的思路和措辞。”
Ms. Li said, “You miss a lot of idioms, cultural things,” if you don’t go to middle school or high school in the language. “On the other hand, I think if you do approach a language as a grown-up and then use it to write, you also bypass a lot of silliness.”
李翊云表示，如果没有在初高中时接受某一门语言的教育，“会错失很多习语和文化方面的东西”。但“另一方面，我想，成年后再全面接触一门语言并用它来写作，也会让你绕过好多傻兮兮的东西。”