HONG KONG—Like all good youth orchestra conductors, Richard Pontzious is not always nice to his charges.
香港——和许多为青年交响乐队担任指挥的优秀指挥家一样，理查·庞信(Richard Pontzious)对乐手们并不总是和颜悦色。
“Can’t you count to five?” Mr. Pontzious, 71, said last month at the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts, during the Asian Youth Orchestra’s first rehearsal for its 2015 season. Mr. Pontzious, who founded the ensemble 25 years ago in Hong Kong, pointed to the principal second-violinist, who put his bow up a bar too early, before turning his attention to a brass player with the wrong sheet music.
25年前，庞信一手创立了这个乐团。上个月，乐团在准备香港演艺学院2015演出季的演出，第一次排练时，71岁的庞信指着第二小提琴手说道：“你不会数到五吗？”此人过早进入了一个小节；之后庞信又把注意力转向另一个拿错了乐谱的铜管乐手。
He then added: “Say, ‘I’m sorry, Mr. Pontzious.’ No, that’s not funny. In a professional orchestra, you’d be out.”
他补了一句：“你要说，‘对不起，庞信先生。’不，不是开玩笑。要是在专业的乐团里，你会被开除的。”
Mr. Pontzious then addressed the room, filled with young musicians who were going to work together for the next two months. “There is no place to hide — not in my rehearsals,” he said.
之后，庞信在这个聚集了年轻乐手的屋子里忙碌，接下来的两个月里，他们都将在一起合作。“在我的排练里是不能蒙混过关的，”他说。
The orchestra’s 103 instrumentalists — chosen from more than 800 applicants, aged 17 to 27, from a dozen nations and territories across Asia — were in their first group practice. They had only a few hours to prepare for the “Nimrod” movement from Elgar’s “Enigma Variations” before a ceremony attended by corporate sponsors, government officials and celebrities.
乐团的103名乐器演奏者是从800多名报名者中挑选出来的，来自全亚洲的十几个国家与地区，年龄在17至27岁，这是他们第一次与乐团合演。他们只排练了几个小时，就得在一个有赞助公司、政府官员和名流参加的庆典上演出埃尔加(Elgar)的《谜语变奏曲》(Enigma Variations)中的“Nimrod”乐章。
For the following three weeks, these musicians would rehearse for nine hours a day. This Saturday, they embark on a tour across mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Japan, playing for a total of about 20,000 audience members.
在接下来的三个星期里，乐手们每天都要排练九个小时。这个星期六（8月8日——编者注），他们开始在中国大陆、台湾、香港和日本巡演，为总共两万名左右的观众演出。
In past years, the orchestra has played at the White House, the Hollywood Bowl and Avery Fisher Hall, in New York. But for its 25th season, it is staying on home turf. Its anniversary gala at the Hong Kong Coliseum on Aug. 16 will feature about 600 musicians — 300 instrumentalists, including alumni, and 300 vocalists — performing a spirited rendition of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony.
在过去几年里，这支交响乐团曾在白宫、好莱坞露天剧场和纽约的艾弗里·菲舍大厅(Avery Fisher Hall)演出，但是到了第25个演出季，它却停留在家乡。8月16日，它将在香港体育馆举办年度庆典，届时将有600名音乐家参演，其中包括300名乐手（含往届乐手）和300名歌手，带来他们对贝多芬“第九交响曲”生机勃勃的演绎。
On top of mastering Hayden, Beethoven, Mahler, Strauss and Shostakovich, the members of the youth orchestra will also have to learn how get along with colleagues from vastly different backgrounds, and how to navigate a tour that crisscrosses rival Asian states like Japan and China. Almost every year, the orchestra’s general manager, Keith Lau, has to fix visa problems or get special permission for players trying to enter particular countries.
除了要掌握海顿、贝多芬、马勒、施特劳斯和肖斯塔科维奇，青年交响乐团的成员们还得学着与来自各种不同背景的同伴们相处，并且为了完成巡演，还要在竞争关系错综复杂的亚洲各国（比如日本和中国）之间旅行。为了乐手们能够顺利进入某些特殊国家，乐团总经理刘国雄每一年都要处理各种签证问题或取得特殊许可。
In May, the ensemble became the first orchestra to win the Nikkei Asia Prize in Japan for bringing the region together.
5月， 乐团成了第一支获得日本日经亚洲奖(Nikkei Asia Prize)的交响乐团，原因是它将整个亚洲团结起来。
The Asian Youth Orchestra, founded in 1990 by the violin maestro Yehudi Menuhin and Mr. Pontzious, is similar to the European Union Youth Orchestra. However, that ensemble is organized by a pan-national government body, whereas its Asian counterpart is privately funded and left on its own to bridge Asia’s border tensions. Mr. Pontzious said the spirit of the Asian group was closest to the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra, which is based in Seville, Spain, and whose goal is to bring together musicians divided by the politics of the Middle East.
亚洲青年交响乐团于1900年由小提琴大师耶胡迪·梅纽因(Yehudi Menuhin)与庞信创办，与欧盟青年交响乐团(European Union Youth Orchestra)颇为类似。不过，欧洲青年交响乐团是由一个泛国家政府机构组织，而亚洲青年交响乐团则是由私人创立，希望它的发展能在亚洲关系紧张的各国之上架起桥梁。庞信说，亚洲青年交响乐团的宗旨与东西方和平交响乐团(West-Eastern Divan Orchestra)最为贴近，这支西班牙塞维尔的乐团旨在让中东地区因政治原因分隔开来的音乐家们欢聚一堂。
The Asian players’ education extends beyond the practice room. Touring musicians are housed with host families — an experience not always appreciated at first by young people struggling with other cultures or languages.
这些亚洲乐手们的教育不只在排练室里完成。巡演期间，乐手们会住在赞助家庭里，年轻的乐手们需要应付不同的文化和语言，他们一开始不一定喜欢这种体验。
“It’s traumatic for some orchestral members,” Mr. Pontzious said. “One Chinese player’s grandfather had been killed by a Japanese soldier. Another Chinese girl turned to me when she was placed with a Japanese family and said, ‘How do you think I feel?’ But two days later, she was carrying the Japanese family’s baby in her arms. This is a very common reaction.”
“对于某些乐团成员来说，这很痛苦。”庞信说。“有个中国乐手的祖父就是被日本兵杀死的。还有一个被安排住在日本家庭里的中国女孩跑来对我说，‘你觉得我会有什么感受？’可是两天后，她就把那家人的小婴儿抱在自己怀里了。这是非常普遍的反应。”
At the end of every concert, the musicians are introduced by their country or territory. And sometimes, this has rattled nerves. The 2012 tour was particularly tumultuous. The orchestra crossed China at the height of anti- Japan protests over disputed islands. In China, “tempers were igniting and heated insults were being hurled at anything and anyone Japanese,” Mr. Pontzious wrote at the time in The South China Morning Post, an English-language newspaper in Hong Kong. The Japanese players were apprehensive, but still received warm applause from the Chinese audience.
每场演出结束，介绍乐手时都会介绍他们的国家和地区，有时候非常令人紧张。2012年的巡演尤其动荡。乐团经过中国时，正值中国就领土争议岛屿反日抗议的顶峰。在中国，“情绪一触即发，任何与日本有关的人或事都会招来激烈的辱骂，”庞信当时为香港的英文媒体《南华早报》撰文写道。日本乐手们都很担心，但最后他们仍然赢得了中国观众的热烈掌声。
Mr. Pontzious, originally from the San Francisco area, has seen many highs and lows in Asia since he moved to Taiwan in 1967. He was hired by the Shanghai Conservatory in 1983 and became one of the first foreigners to stay long term after the Cultural Revolution, which lasted from 1966 to 1976 and was a period when “bourgeois” Western instruments and sheet music were ritually destroyed.
庞信来自旧金山，1967年搬到台湾，在亚洲目睹了许多起起伏伏。1983年，他被上海音乐学院聘请，成了“文化大革命”后第一批长期定居中国的外国人之一。“文革”从1966年延续到1976年，在那期间，“小资本主义”的西方乐器与乐曲都被公然销毁。
“The conservatory was very damaged by the events of the Cultural Revolution,” he said. “The instruments were terrible. Kids had rubber bands holding together the keys on their clarinets.”
“音乐学院在‘文化大革命’期间受了很大损失，”他说。“当时那里的乐器都很糟糕，孩子们都得拿橡皮筋绑住单簧管上的按键。”
What he saw was far removed from today’s China, home to gleaming new concert halls and celebrity soloists like Lang Lang, Yundi Li and Jian Wang. For Mr. Pontzious, the future of classical music is in Asia. “If you look at audiences in Europe, they are all elderly,” he said. “It’s the opposite here. People are bringing babies to concerts.”
但是今天的中国已经大不相同，如今，这里矗立着崭新的音乐厅，涌现出朗朗、李云迪和王健等著名独奏音乐家。庞信认为古典音乐的未来在亚洲。“如果你观察欧洲的观众，就会发现他们都上年纪了，”他说，“这里却正相反，人们都带着小孩子来看音乐会。”
The Asian Youth Orchestra’s demographics have shifted with Asia’s economic development. In the 1990s, it was dominated by Japanese players. But when Japan’s economy faltered and China’s grew, more Chinese members came on board. There is also an evolving contingent from Southeast Asia. In one telling example of the changing climate, Naoki Ota, a French horn player from Japan returned to his country in 2010 to deliver pizzas, but he later found work with the Hangzhou Philharmonic Orchestra, in China, because of his connection to the Asian Youth Orchestra.
亚洲青年交响乐团的人口分布随着亚洲的经济发展而变化。九十年代，乐团里主要是日本乐手。但是随着日本经济衰退与中国的发展，愈来愈多的中国成员加入进来。东南亚的成员也在增加。一个有说服力的例子可以说明大环境的变化：2010年，日本圆号演奏者Naoki Ota回到日本后做起了外送披萨的工作，但后来凭着在亚洲青年交响乐团时结下的人脉，在中国的杭州交响乐团找到了职位。
The Asian group’s age cap, at 27, is a bit higher than other youth orchestras to accommodate musicians from various backgrounds. Players can repeat the program as many times as they want so long as they pass auditions each time.
加入亚洲青年交响乐团的最高年龄限制是27岁，比起其他接受不同文化背景的青年交响乐团要高一点。乐手可以重复参加这一活动，不限次数，只要通过试奏即可。
Kevin Julius Castelo, who is 23 and just graduated from the University of the Philippines as a percussion major, is on his fourth tour. He was a talented high school drummer who played in a rock band but had little exposure to classical music or instruments. “It’s not like other countries, with better secondary school programs,” he said. “I didn’t even know how to read notes.”
23岁的凯文·朱利乌斯·卡斯特罗(Kevin Julius Castelo)刚从菲律宾大学毕业，主修打击乐器，这是他第四次参加巡演。上中学时，他就是一名天才鼓手，加入了一支摇滚乐队，但几乎没怎么听过古典音乐或相关乐器。“我们这里不像其他国家，有更好的中学课程，”他说。“我当时都不识谱。”
Back at the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts last month, Mr. Lau, the general manager, continued to prepare the players for their first performance. He checked that their sheet music was ordered, their uniforms were ironed, and threatened to cover their legs in black stage tape if they forgot to wear socks.
上个月香港演艺学院的演出之前，总经理刘国雄忙着帮乐手们准备他们的首场演出。他检查他们的乐谱是不是放好了、制服有没有熨过，威胁说如果他们忘了穿袜子，就用黑色胶带把他们的腿粘起来。
To symbolize the full financial support that each of the orchestra’s members receive for their participation and travel, Mr. Lau handed a certificate of donation to Hoang Ho Khanh Van, an 18-year-old violinist from Vietnam. “This is worth $12,500,” Mr. Lau said, positioning Ms. Hoang where she would face the V.I.P.s in the front row. “So when your time comes, look at the audience and smile.”
每位成员参加乐团与旅行的全部费用都由经济赞助支付，因此刘国雄安排了仪式，把捐赠证书交给18岁的越南小提琴手黄胡庆文（音译）。“这个值12500美元，”刘国雄指点着她面向前排的特别贵宾席。“等轮到你的时候，别忘了看着观众微笑。”