Manchu, the imperial language of the Qing dynasty (1644-1912), may be effectively extinct, but a close cousin clings to life in an unlikely place: a collection of towns near China’s border with Kazakhstan, 2,800 miles from the language’s former stronghold in northeastern China.
满语是清朝（1644年至1912年）的官方语言，实际上可能已经没有人使用了，但在一个看似不可能的地方，满语的一个近亲尚有生机。那就是中国与哈萨克斯坦边境附近的几座城镇，与中国东北部过去的满语区相距逾4500公里。
Xibe, a dialect of Manchu, is spoken by thousands of people who live in the Qapqal Xibe Autonomous County, in the far western region of Xinjiang. They are descendants of a garrison of soldiers who were dispatched west more than 250 years ago by a Qing emperor, Qianlong, to protect the empire’s Central Asian border. It was an arduous, 18-month journey that took the soldiers and their families through some of the world’s most inhospitable terrain.
锡伯语是满语的一种方言，在新疆偏远西部的察布查尔锡伯自治县，仍有上万人在讲这种语言。他们是西迁驻军的后裔。250多年前，清朝皇帝乾隆派遣他们去大清帝国的中亚边境戍边。西迁路程耗时18个月，其间艰苦卓绝，士兵带着家眷穿越了世界上最为荒凉的一些地带。
He Wenjun, a 72-year-old teacher, is among the dwindling number of people who can still read and write Xibe, a member of the Tungusic family of languages which is thought to be related to Turkish, Korean and Japanese. Mr. He credits Xibe’s survival to more than two centuries of isolation in a region largely populated by ethnic Uighurs, Kazakhs and Russians.
72岁的贺文君是一位教师，能读写锡伯语，这样的人目前越来越少。锡伯语属于满–通古斯语族，人们认为这一语族与突厥语、朝鲜语和日语有关。贺文君认为，锡伯语能够保存下来，是因为在这个以维吾尔族、哈萨克族和俄罗斯族为主的区域，锡伯人两个多世纪以来，都过着孤立隔离的生活。
Before the arrival of television, Mr. He says, storytelling was a central element of Xibe social life, and a vital conduit for passing along history and tradition to the young. In this clip, Mr. He sings a folk song called “Xiao Qiao Cried for Zhou Yu,” an episode from the Ming dynasty novel “Romance of the Three Kingdoms.” In it, the legendary beauty Xiao Qiao, or Little Qiao, mourns the death of her husband, the commander Zhou Yu.
他说，在通电视之前，讲故事是锡伯族社会生活的一个核心要素，也是让年轻人传承历史和传统的一个重要渠道。在这个视频中，贺文君唱的民歌叫作《小乔哭周瑜》，内容取材于明代小说《三国演义》，讲的是传说中的美女小乔为去世的丈夫周瑜都督而哀悼。
The female bird is busy brooding
雌鸟忙育雏，
And she can’t find the male bird in her sight.
雄鸟无处觅。
What I hate about you, my beloved, is that
我的爱人，我怨你，
We had been happy together like the dragon and phoenix
往日快乐似龙凤
And we didn’t expect we would part.
未曾料到会分别。
What I hate about you, my beloved, is that
我的爱人，我怨你，
Without you, gold, silver and gems do not matter anymore.
没有你，金银珠宝再无光。
What I really hate about you, my beloved, is that
我的爱人，我真怨恨你，
The ships on Yangtze river are now in ruins
长江上樯橹灰飞
And the earth under my feet starts to collapse while the lightning flashes above me.
我脚下地动，顶上电闪。
What I really hate about you, my beloved, is that
我的爱人，我真怨恨你
When you were here you would make an army with just one horse and shield.
你在这里时，一马一盾抵千军。