Elon Musk has built rockets and electric cars. In the future, he may be building airplanes.
埃隆·马斯克(Elon Musk)已经在造火箭和电动汽车了。将来，他还可能造飞机。
Mr. Musk, the chief executive of Tesla Motors and SpaceX, said on Tuesday that he had envisioned a design for an electric supersonic airplane, with the ability to take off and land vertically. He said he began to conceive of such a jet after the Concorde was grounded a decade ago.
马斯克是特斯拉汽车(Tesla Motors)和SpaceX的首席执行官。他周二表示，自己已构想出能垂直起降的电动超音速飞机的设计。他还称，协和飞机(Concorde)在10年前停飞后，他就开始构思这样的喷气式飞机了。
“I do think there’s an interesting opportunity to make a supersonic vertical takeoff-landing jet,” Mr. Musk said at DealBook’s Opportunities for Tomorrow Conference on Tuesday.
在《纽约时报》“交易录”博客(DealBook)周二举办的明日之机大会(Opportunities for Tomorrow Conference)上，马斯克说，“我的确认为，存在着制造一架超音速垂直起降喷气式飞机的有趣机会。”
He recalled becoming concerned when British Airways and Air France said they would retire their fleet of Concordes in 2003. That provided the germ of an idea.
他回忆说，英国航空(British Airways)和法国航空(Air France)宣布旗下的协和客机将于2003年停飞的时候，他就开始了担心。这给了他初始的想法。
“It bothers me when it seems like the future is getting worse,” Mr. Musk said.
“似乎未来会变得更糟，这让我很不安，”马斯克称。
In an interview with the columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin, Mr. Musk also talked about Tesla, his electric car company, whose stock has climbed to new heights this year. Responding to a series of news reports about Tesla cars that caught fire after their batteries were damaged, Mr. Musk said his cars were far less likely to catch fire than others on the road.He said he would not recall the vehicles, defending their safety record. “If there was something we thought would affect the safety, we would immediately do a recall,” Mr. Musk said.
与专栏作者安德鲁·罗斯·索金(Andrew Ross Sorkin)对话时，马斯克也谈到了自己的电动汽车公司特斯拉，该公司今年的股价达到了历史新高。当被问到有关特斯拉汽车电池受损后起火的一系列新闻报道时，他称，自家出产的汽车，比路上的其他车辆起火的可能性要低得多。他表示不会召回，并为特斯拉的安全纪录进行了辩护。“如果我们认为有影响安全的情况，我们会立即召回，”马斯克说。
Tesla’s stock fell after the company’s most recent earnings report. Mr. Musk said the concern stemmed from supply constraints in the short term.
特斯拉发布最新的盈利报告后，公司股价有所下滑。马斯克认为，这种担忧源于短期内的供应瓶颈。
The stock price, he added, is “a pretty good deal right now.” But the company’s valuation is still relatively high, and Mr. Musk acknowledged that investors’ faith puts pressure on the company to deliver on those expectations.
他还称，股价“目前相当划算”。不过，特斯拉的市值仍然较高。马斯克也承认，投资者的信心给了公司满足外界期待的压力。
As for his next project? Mr. Musk said creating any company was more difficult than it might seem, comparing it to “eating glass and staring into the abyss.” And he said the “death” of a company can feel like a genuine death.
那么，他的下个项目会是怎样的呢？马斯克称，创建任何一家公司都比表面看来的要艰难，就好像是“一边吃玻璃一边望着脚下的深渊”。他还说，公司“死掉”的感觉就像是真正的死亡一样。
But he has clearly done his homework.
不过，他显然是做了功课。
“My favorite airplane is actually the 747,” Mr. Musk said. “I think that’s an awesome design.”
“我最喜欢的飞机其实是747，”马斯克说。“我觉得它的设计很棒。”