As a professor who favors pop quizzes, Cedrick May is used to grimaces from students caught unprepared. But a couple of years ago, in his class on early American literature at the University of Texas at Arlington, he said he noticed “horrible, pained looks” from the whole class when they saw the questions.
作为一个喜欢搞突击测验的教授，塞德里克·梅(Cedrick May)已经习惯了看见学生们措手不及的痛苦表情。不过他说在两年前，在他于得克萨斯州大学阿灵顿分校(University of Texas at Arlington)讲授的早期美国文学课上，他注意到了整个班的学生在看到考卷的时候，都露出“恐怖的、痛不欲生的神情”。
He soon learned that the students did not know he had changed the reading assignment because they did not check their e-mail regularly, if at all. To the students, e-mail was as antiquated as the spellings “chuse” and “musick” in the works by Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards that they read on their electronic books.
他很快就发现，原来学生们并不知道他修改过课后阅读任务，因为他们并没有定时查电子邮件，甚至可能根本不查。对于学生们来说，电邮就像科顿·马瑟(Cotton Mather)和乔纳森·爱德华兹(Jonathan Edwards)作品里所出的”chuse”和”musick”等拼写一样，已经过时，而那些作品，他们也是在电子书上读的。
“Some of them didn’t even seem to know they had a college e-mail account,” Dr. May said. Nor were these wide-eyed freshmen. “This is considered a junior-level class, so they’d been around,” he said.
“他们当中有些人甚至都不知道自己还有一个学校电邮帐户，”梅博士说。他们又不是什么都不懂的大一新生。“这门课是大三级别的，所以他们在学校也已经有一段日子的了，”他说。
That is when he added to his course syllabuses: “Students must check e-mail daily.” Dr. May said the university now recommends similar wording.
也就是在那个时候，他在自己的课程纲要里增加了一条：“学生必须每天查电子邮件。”梅博士说，校方现在也都建议大家加上类似的说法了。
So students prefer social media. So far, so 2005. But some professors do not want to “friend” students on Facebook (“I don’t want to learn things about them I can’t unlearn,” said Thomas Tierney, an associate professor of sociology at the College of Wooster in Ohio) or do not think it is their job to explore every possible medium a student might prefer to use at 2 a.m. to find out about a test later that day.
所以说，学生们现在是更喜欢用社交媒体。这可以上溯到2005年，直至现在。但是有些教授并不想在Facebook上加学生为好友（“我不想知道关于他们的一些会让我挥之不去的东西，”俄亥俄州伍斯特学院[College of Wooster]的社会学副教授托马斯·蒂尔尼[Thomas Tierney]这样说道），也不认为他们有义务去涉猎每一种可能的媒介，在学生们更喜欢凌晨两点时去看的媒介上通知他们白天会有一个测试。
How to get students, some of whom consider their school e-mail accounts so irrelevant that they give their parents the passwords, to take a look?
怎样才能让学生去看一眼邮件呢？他们当中有些人会认为学校电邮是如此地无关紧要，甚至都可以让他们的父母知道密码了。
At the University of Southern California, Nina Eliasoph’s Sociology 250 syllabus reads: “You must check e-mail DAILY every weekday,” with boldface for emphasis.
在南加州大学(University of Southern California)，尼娜·艾利亚索弗(Nina Eliasoph)的“社会学250号课程”纲要上就写着：“在工作日，你必须每天查阅电子邮件。”而且是用粗体字以示强调。
In an e-mail, Dr. Eliasoph wrote: “Earlier it was because some students weren’t plugged in enough into any virtual communication.” Seven years later, she said she cannot remove the instruction because now students avoid e-mail because it is “too slow compared to texting.”
在一封电邮中，艾利亚索弗博士写道：“过去是因为有些学生不爱任何一种虚拟通信。”七年之后，她说，自己还是不能删去这一条指示，因为现在的学生往往会回避电子邮件，因为它“相比起短信来是太慢了”。
Morgan Judge, a sophomore at Fordham University in New York, said she thought it was “cool” last semester when a professor announced that students could text him. Then she received one from him: “Check your e-mail for an update on the assignment.”
纽约福坦莫大学(Fordham University)的大二学生摩根·乔吉(Morgan Judge)说，上学期当一个教授宣称学生们可以给他发短信时，她觉得“很酷”。后来她收到他的一条信息：“查邮件，看看关于作业的最新情况。”
“E-mail has never really been a fun thing to use,” said Ms. Judge, 19. “It’s always like, ‘This is something you have to do.’ School is a boring thing. E-mail is a boring thing. It goes together.”
“电子邮件从来就不是一种真正用起来好玩的东西，”19岁的乔吉说，“它说的总是一些‘这是你要做的事情’之类的。学校是个无趣的东西，电子邮件也是个无趣的东西。这俩一拍即合。”
The University of Alabama’s cooperative education office tries a pileup of retro-style reminders. Engineering students, some of whom recently lined up at 2 a.m. to sign up for job-recruiting interviews, are told, individually and in person, to check e-mail at a particular day and time to confirm their spot.
阿拉巴马大学(University of Alabama)的合作教育项目办公室就尝试了一系列复古风格的通知形式。最近，工程学系的学生要排队登记参加招聘面试，有些还一直排到凌晨两点。然后他们逐一得到当面的通知，要他们在具体的某一天某一个时间查阅电子邮件，去确认他们得到一个名额。
Even after all that, and the threat of their spot being given away, staff members still resort to texting some students. They respond immediately, said Amy Ratliff, senior coordinator for cooperative education.
即使是在这样一番折腾并且在名额可能被抢走的威吓之下，一些工作人员却还是要回过头来对某一些学生采取短信通知。合作教育资深专员艾米·拉特里夫(Amy Ratliff)说，这样他们就会立刻回复。
When job offers arrive, Ms. Ratliff often has excited students turn up in her office only to realize they have forgotten a form they need to send to the company. Using e-mail to get the form or to send it apparently does not cross their minds.
当有工作录用邀请到来时，拉特里夫却常常碰见有学生来她的办公室，她这才知道他们忘记了拿一份所需的表格发给相应的公司。显然，用电邮收发表格的事情，他们连想都没想过。
“I say: ‘Do you have your phone with you? O.K., can you get e-mail on it?’ ” she said.
“我会说：‘你有带手机吗？’好的，你能用它来收电子邮件吗？”她说。
Ms. Ratliff added: “It’s like an out-of-body experience. These are incredibly bright kids.”
然后拉特里夫补充说：“这就像是一种灵魂出窍的分身体验。这些可都是绝顶聪明的孩子啊。”
Eric Stoller, who consults with universities on social media and communication, said schools often have outsize expectations for students when it comes to all things tech.
埃里克·斯托勒(Eric Stoller)在各大学充当社交媒体和沟通传播顾问。他说，一说到跟高科技有关的东西，学校就经常会对学生有过高的期待。
“We have this perception that because students are fluent with things like smartphones and downloading music that they are born with chips embedded in them that make them technology wizards,” he said. “They are no better at managing e-mail than anyone else.”
“我们有种观念，因为学生对于像智能手机和音乐下载之类的东西都很熟练，所以他们应该生来就像植入了芯片一样，全是电子科技奇才，”他说，“但他们其实并不比任何人更擅长处理电子邮件。”
(When Mr. Stoller, 36, was an academic adviser at Oregon State University from 2007 to 2010, he frequently answered students’ questions with, “Have you tried Google?” Usually, they hadn’t.)
（36岁的斯托勒在2007至2010年间曾是俄勒冈州立大学[Oregon State University]的一名学术顾问，他回答学生提问时经常会说：“你有没有先用谷歌[Google]查过？”通常他们都是没有查过。）
Just how little are students using e-mail these days? Six minutes a day, according to an experiment done earlier this year by Reynol Junco, an associate professor of library science at Purdue. With the promise of a $10 Amazon gift card, Dr. Junco persuaded students to download a program letting him track their computer habits. During the semester, they spent an average of 123 minutes a day on a computer, by far the biggest portion of it, 31 minutes, on social networking. The only thing they spent less time on than e-mail: hunting for content via search engines (four minutes).
这年头的学生使用电子邮件到底少到了什么程度？根据普度大学(Purdue University)图书馆学副教授雷诺尔·琼柯(Reynol Junco)今年早些时候做的一项实验所得，是每天使用6分钟。通过承诺送一张10美元的亚马逊礼品卡，琼科博士说服了学生们去下载一个程序，让他能够跟踪他们使用电脑的习惯。在这个学期里，他们平均每天在电脑上花费123分钟，而当中遥遥领先排在第一位的，是社交网络，用时31分钟。他们比电子邮件用时更少的事情只有一样：用搜索引擎查东西（仅4分钟）。
The actual average of e-mail time, at least on a tablet or desktop, could be even lower because Dr. Junco recruited students by — wait for it — e-mail.
而至少就平板和桌面电脑来说，实际花费在电子邮件上的平均时间或许还更短，因为琼柯博士征集这些学生的方式，就是通过电邮的——你就等吧。
“Yes, there’s other ways, but they’re so much more resource-intensive,” he said.
“是的，确实有其他方法，但那些方法占用的资源要多太多了，”他说。
Use of the school e-mail account may be slightly higher at elite universities, said Kenneth C. Green, founder of the Campus Computing Project, one of the largest continuing studies of information technology in American higher education.
校园电脑计划(Campus Computing Project) 是美国高等教育体系中关于信息科技最大的持续研究项目之一。它的创始人肯内思·C·格林(Kenneth C. Green)说，学校电邮帐户的使用率在精英大学里或许要稍微高一些。
Scott Simpson, 22, a recent Yale graduate, agreed. “When I was a freshman I used it a lot because I felt really cool having my name at Yale dot edu,” he said.
最近从耶鲁(Yale)毕业的22岁学生斯科特·辛普森(Scott Simpson)对此表示同意。“在我读大一的时候，我经常用它，因为在‘yale.edu’上有我的名字让我觉得真的很酷。”
Brittney Carver, 20, a junior at the University of Iowa, said she checks her e-mail once a day, more if she’s expecting something. Before college, she used e-mail mostly for buying concert tickets. She said she would never use it if she could avoid it.
20岁的布里特妮·卡弗尔(Brittney Carver)是爱荷华大学(University of Iowa)的大三学生。她说她每天会查一次邮件，如果她知道会有东西来的话就会多查一查。在大学前，她用电邮最多的是用来买演唱会票。她说，只要能避免，自己都绝不会用。
“I never know what to say in the subject line and how to address the person,” Ms. Carver said. “Is it mister or professor and comma and return, and do I have to capitalize and use full sentences? By the time I do all that I could have an answer by text if I could text them.”
“我从来不知道应该在标题上写什么，还有怎样称呼收件人，”卡弗尔说，“是要叫‘先生’或者‘教授’，然后按逗号和回车吗？还有，我是不是要区分大小写并且要写完整的句子？等我把这些都弄好的时候，我通过短信都已经能得到回复了。”
Mr. Stoller said some of the blame for Ms. Carver’s frustration with e-mail goes right back to the people who wish she and her fellow students would use it.
斯托勒说，卡弗尔对于电子邮件的崩溃情绪，一部分正是来源于那些希望让她和同学们都用电邮的人。
“Faculty and staff love to blame students for not checking e-mail instead of owning up to the fact that no one ever got that good at using e-mail in the first place,” he said, citing vague subject lines and (exaggerating to make his point) 36-paragraph e-mails from faculty in which the crucial information is in paragraph 27. “How are they going to learn to use e-mail when that’s the model, and why would they want to?”
“学院办和工作人员喜欢批评学生不查邮件，却不愿承认事实，其实本来就没有人能够把电子邮件用得有多好，”他说，比如那些含糊的邮件标题，还有（他夸张地表明论点）一封学院发出的邮件有36段，然后当中重点的信息藏在了第27段。“如果连范本都是这样，他们怎么可能学会使用电子邮件呢？还有他们怎么会想学会呢？”
Paul Jones, a professor at the University of North Carolina, does not think they should have to.
北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)的教授保罗·琼斯(Paul Jones)就认为，他们根本不必学会。
“E-mail is a sinkhole where knowledge goes to die,” said Mr. Jones, who said that he gave up e-mail in 2011. It was a radical move, not least because Mr. Jones helped write the code for the university’s first e-mail program 30 years ago. “I’m trying to undo that sinful work,” he said, joking.
“电子邮件就是个落水洞，知识会在这里走向死亡，”琼斯说，他在2011年就放弃使用电邮了。这是一个激进的行为，特别是30年前正是琼斯帮助这所大学编写了第一个电子邮件程序代码。“我在试着消除那一次罪恶之作，”他开玩笑说。
E-mails to him receive an automated reply: “Goodbye E-mail, I’m divesting,” plus some 20 ways to reach him. About the only person frustrated by this, he said, was a department head who wanted to know “how will you possibly read our important departmental announcements?” Mr. Jones said with a laugh.
发给他的电邮会收到自动回复：“再见了，电子邮件，我撤了。”外加20多种可以联系他的方法。他说，唯一可能对此感到失望的可能就是某个部门领导，他会想知道“那你还怎么能够阅读到我们部门的重要通告呢？”琼斯说着也笑了。
But in his quest to eliminate e-mail, Mr. Jones may have a surprising obstacle: students. Canvas, a two-year-old learning management system used by Brown University, among others, allows students to choose how to receive messages like “The reading assignment has been changed to Chapter 2.” The options: e-mail, text, Facebook and Twitter. According to company figures, 98 percent chose e-mail.
但在试图终结电子邮件的过程中，琼斯可能会遇到一个他意想不到的障碍：学生。一个有两年历史的学业管理系统”Canvas”是布朗大学(Brown University)正在使用的系统之一，它可以让学生选择用何种方式接收诸如“阅读作业已被改到第2章”之类的信息。选项是：电子邮件、短信、Facebook和Twitter。根据公司的数据，98%的人选择了电子邮件。