Big video game makers, like their cousins in books and music, have scrambled in recent years to adapt to the digital technologies buffeting their business. Tens of millions of people now play games on smartphones and tablets, usually for a sliver of the cost of playing on a game console.
大型游戏开发商，与它们在图书及音乐界的难兄难弟一样，近几年一直在努力挣扎着去适应不断打击它们业务的数码科技。如今有几千万人在智能手机和平板电脑上玩游戏，与在游戏机上玩相比，花费往往是九牛一毛。
But one part of the games business is thriving as never before: the blockbuster.
不过，有一类游戏业务却空前兴旺，那就是重磅游戏。
The biggest console and PC games — usually those games that are part of an established franchise and have the slickest production values — are posting spectacular sales figures. This month, the latest in the gritty urban adventure series Grand Theft Auto took only three days on store shelves to reach $1 billion in sales, faster than any video game ever, its publisher said.
最大型的电视和PC游戏正在创造辉煌的销售业绩。这些游戏通常都是现有系列的一部分，拥有最为漂亮的产值数据。本月，以狂野城市探险为主题的《侠盗飞车》(Grand Theft Auto)系列最新版上架3天后就取得了10亿美元（约合61亿元人民币）的销售额。发行商表示，这是史上最快达到该销售额的一款游戏。
“The winners have gotten massive,” said Doug Creutz, an analyst Cowen & Company, a stock research firm.
“赢家赚的盆满钵满，”股票研究企业考恩公司(Cowen & Company)的分析师道格·克鲁兹(Doug Creutz)说道。
The richest games are getting richer partly because the industry makes fewer games over all, concentrating players’ spending. Publishers are also squeezing out a little more money per game sold by selling add-on content and other digital goodies. And the legions of players eager to do battle with one another online create a sort of virtuous cycle, as players are attracted to the titles with the biggest pool of opponents.
最赚钱的游戏之所以能够赚更多的钱，部分原因是业界开发的游戏数量整体减少了，使得玩家的消费集中起来。通过销售附加内容等电子产品，发行商还会从每款游戏身上再多挤出些利润。此外，玩家军团乐于在线交战，也就形成了一种良性循环，使得他们都被吸引到了拥有最大玩家群的几款游戏里。
Now, the most popular games, like Call of Duty, Halo and Assassin’s Creed, or top sports games, like the FIFA soccer series, have the biggest development budgets and fan bases and are getting a bigger portion of sales. The top 20 games in 2012 accounted for 41 percent of total American game sales in stores, nearly double what they did a decade earlier, according to the NPD Group, a market research company.
目前最流行的游戏，比如《使命招唤》(Call of Duty)、《光晕》(Halo)和《刺客信条》(Assassin’s Creed)，以及FIFA足球系列等顶尖运动游戏，都拥有最大金额的开发预算和最广泛的玩家基础，它们的市场份额也在进一步扩大。根据市场研究公司NPD集团(NPD Group)的数据，2012年，排名前20的游戏占美国店内游戏总销售额的41%，几乎是10年前的2倍。
“At a time when people are bemoaning the fate of the interactive entertainment business, if you pursue a strategy of giving consumers the highest-quality titles in the business, they will come out for what you have to sell,” Strauss Zelnick, chief executive of Take-Two Interactive Software, the company that publishes Grand Theft Auto, said in an interview.
Take-Two互动软件公司(Take-Two Interactive Software)发行了《侠盗飞车》，公司首席执行官施特劳斯·泽尔尼克(Strauss Zelnick)在采访中表示，“在这样一个人人哀叹交互式娱乐产业命运的时代，如果你追求的策略是给消费者提供业界品质最高的游戏，他们就会对你销售的产品趋之若鹜。”
The lower output of publishers makes the stakes higher. In 2012, only half as many new games were released in American stores as in 2008, NPD said. Electronic Arts, the publisher of the Madden football series and other sports favorites, sold 67 different titles in stores in the fiscal year ending March 2009. In its last fiscal year, it sold 13. Because fewer games are released, game makers must get more sales out of those games that do reach store shelves.
发行量减少就意味着赌注的提高。NPD表示，2012年，美国店内推出的新游戏仅为2008年的一半。艺电公司(Electronic Arts)发行了《疯狂橄榄球》(Madden Football) 系列等广受欢迎的运动游戏。在截至2009年3月的财年中，艺电有67款游戏在店内销售；而在刚过去的一个财年中，仅有13款。由于发行的游戏越来越少，游戏开发商必须在能够上架销售的游戏身上获取更高的销售额。
“Every publicly traded publisher will talk about a ‘bigger, better, fewer’ strategy,” said Edward Williams, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets.
“每一个上市的发行商都在讲‘更大、更好、更少’的策略，”蒙特利尔银行资本市场公司(BMO Capital Markets)的分析师爱德华·威廉姆斯(Edward Williams)表示。
But a blockbuster strategy comes with big risks. Games meant to be console blockbusters generally require tens of millions of dollars to build the graphics and gameplay that smartphones and tablets cannot yet match. Grand Theft Auto V, for example, features a sprawling game universe even more immersive for many players than big movies are for theatergoers.
可是，重磅游戏策略也伴随着巨大的风险。重磅电视游戏一般需要几千万美元的资金来打造智能手机和平板电脑尚不能企及的画面与设定。比如《侠盗飞车5》里设置了一个广阔的游戏世界，对许多玩家而言，甚至比去看大片更有身临其境的感觉。
Those costs require millions in sales — and create big losses if sales are weak.
这样的成本需要成百上千万的销量来平衡。如果销售不佳，也会造成巨额亏损。
The development costs on Grand Theft Auto V were likely to have been more than $100 million, and its marketing $50 million more, said Evan Wilson, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities. He estimated that a typical console game would break even at about four million units, while that figure would have been one million a decade or so ago.
太平洋皇冠证券(Pacific Crest Securities)的分析师埃文·威尔逊(Evan Wilson)表示，《侠盗飞车5》的开发费用很可能超过了1亿美元，此外还有5000万的营销费用。他估计，一个普通的电视游戏要卖400万份左右才能收支平衡，而大约10年前，只要卖100万份就能做到这一点。
Game makers have tried to compensate for the higher costs by getting more out of consumers with each game. Like many big publishers, Electronic Arts sells its marquee titles, including the FIFA soccer games, at the standard price of $60 each. The company also lets gamers enhance the game by spending money online to compose fantasy teams of their favorite soccer superstars. For its last fiscal year, E.A. said such digital revenue from FIFA was more than $200 million, up 94 percent from a year before.
游戏开发商努力让每款游戏从消费者手中赚取更多的钱，以此来弥补升高的开发成本。与许多大型发行商一样，艺电推出的主打游戏，如FIFA系列，标准售价为60美元。玩家也可通过线上消费来增强游戏体验，比如花钱来选择自己喜爱的超级球星来组建梦幻球队。艺电表示，在上一个财年，FIFA带来的此类线上收入超过了2亿美元，同比上涨了94%。
Restoring growth in the video game industry is difficult partly because players are spending more time with cheaper and free games. Revenue from the various methods of selling games online, like a $3 version of Angry Birds for the iPad or the $1 required to buy extra lives in the otherwise free game Candy Crush Saga, is by most accounts not yet big enough to reverse the slide in overall sales.
在电子游戏行业恢复增长之所以很困难，部分是因为玩家现在花更多的时间去玩更便宜或免费的游戏。iPad版《愤怒的小鸟》(Angry Birds)标价3美元，免费游戏《糖果粉碎传奇》(Candy Crush Saga)中花1美元可以增加几条命。但多数分析认为，此类在线销售游戏的多样化手段所产生的收入，不足以扭转销售额整体下滑的趋势。
New consoles from Microsoft and Sony will be released in the coming months, and that could temporarily stem the tide of lower sales. The current generation of hardware has been around a while, with Sony’s PlayStation 3 at seven years and Microsoft’s Xbox 360 at eight. Game sales traditionally slow the longer a system is out, and revive when a new one is introduced.
微软(Microsoft)和索尼(Sony)将在未来几个月推出新款游戏机，这可能会暂时提振低迷的销售额。相关硬件设备都已经销售了相当长的时间，索尼的PlayStation 3推出已有7年，微软的Xbox 360推出有8年了。一直以来，游戏设备推出时间越久，游戏的销售就越不给力，而引入新设备后，又会刺激游戏销售。
The new systems will test whether console game sales have been permanently dented by the shifting ways that consumers play games, making it even more important that the blockbuster franchises showcase the consoles’ capabilities to potential buyers.
新款游戏机会检验出，电视游戏的销售是否因消费者玩游戏的方式发生改变而受到了永久性的影响。因此，对于重磅游戏而言，借机向潜在购买者展现新游戏机的性能，也变得更加重要。
Last week, E.A. released what is likely to be one of this year’s biggest hits, FIFA 14, the latest edition of the soccer game that has become a smashing success around the world. By the end of March, E.A. said, it had sold 14.5 million copies of FIFA 13, its previous version, about 30 percent more than FIFA 12 had sold the year before.
上周，艺电推出《FIFA 14》，它是在全球大获成功的足球游戏的最新版本，也可能是本年度最重要的游戏之一。艺电表示，上一版《FIFA 13》在截至3月底的财年已售出1450万套，比《FIFA 12》的销售量同比增加了30%。
David Rutter, the executive producer of E.A.’s FIFA game, said that in recent years the struggling economy had made gamers more discriminating about what they buy. As a result, critical plaudits — often a reflection of how much investment a publisher has put into a game — have become more important to sales.
艺电FIFA游戏的执行制作人戴维·鲁特(David Rutter)表示，近几年的不良经济状况让玩游戏的人对于买什么产品更加挑剔。因而，来自游戏评论人士的喝彩——经常反映的是开发商对游戏的投入——对于销售而言更加重要。
The players’ discriminating nature also means that many of them flock to game franchises they have enjoyed before — perpetuating the cycle of blockbusters.
玩家挑剔的本性也意味着，他们会蜂拥到以前喜欢的游戏产品那里——这也延续了重磅游戏恒强之势。
“Consumers get excited about a particular experience and remain loyal to it,” said Mr. Zelnick of Take-Two. “When you have a commanding market share, you maintain a commanding market share.”
“消费者对于某种经历感到兴奋，就会对它保持忠诚，”  Take-Two互动软件的泽尔尼克说道。“当你占有优势性的市场份额，你就能维持优势性的市场份额。”