Like a character who develops a discreet but noticeable cough at the end of the first act, the movies have been dying for a long time. The latest chapter in their decline — which began, depending on who is telling the story, with the introduction of sound, the rise of television, the fall of the old studios, the spread of home video or the arrival of the Internet — was written earlier this year.
电影已经垂死良久，正如一个在第一幕结尾小心翼翼却又引人注目地咳嗽了一声的角色。它的衰微是从何时开始，不同的人可能会有不同的说法——有声电影的出现、电视的崛起、老片厂的衰落、家用录像机的发展乃至互联网的降临；而衰败的终章则是从今年早些时候开始。
At the end of April (which counts, according to the Hollywood calendar, as the beginning of summer), Steven Soderbergh gave a State of Cinema talk at the San Francisco International Film Festival that was something of a eulogy both for his own career as a director of theatrically released feature films and for the industry that sustained it. According to Soderbergh, there is less and less room in the business for artistic integrity and “specificity of vision”; in the age-old struggle between art and commerce, art is being routed. “You’ve got people who don’t know movies and don’t watch movies for pleasure deciding what movie you’re going to be allowed to make,” he said. “That’s one reason studio movies aren’t better than they are, and that’s one reason that cinema as I’m defining it” — the art that sometimes lives within the commercial husk of movies — “is shrinking.” Soderbergh had earlier announced that the psychological thriller “Side Effects” would be his last feature distributed to movie theaters. His Liberace biopic “Behind the Candelabra,” though entered in competition at the Cannes Film Festival, was made for and shown on American cable television (HBO in this case), where his future cinematic projects are likely to unfold. The kind of work that he has been identified with ever since “Sex, Lies and Videotape” — films that balance mainstream appeal with ambition, intelligence and a recognizable creative signature — is increasingly marginal in a system focused on global markets and blockbuster franchises.
4月底（根据好莱坞的年历，这个时间相当于夏季的开始），斯蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)在旧金山国际电影节上就电影的现状发表了一番讲话，其中赞美他自己在导演生涯中戏剧化地拍出了那么多电影，也称赞了支持他的这个产业。他说，这个行业留给艺术完整性以及“视觉特异性”的空间愈来愈少；在艺术与商业之间旷日持久的斗争中，艺术渐渐被限定了。“是由那些不了解电影，也不以看电影为乐的人来决定你能拍什么样的电影，”他说，“所以制片公司的电影才每况愈下，所以影院电影”——作为一种时常寄居在电影商业外壳之内的艺术——“才会如我所说，开始缩减。”索德伯格早些时候说心理惊悚片《副作用》(Side Effects)会是他最后一部在影院放映的电影长片。不过，他拍摄的李伯拉斯(Liberace)传记片《烛台之后》(Behind the Candelabra)虽然打入了戛纳电影节的竞赛单元，却是为美国的有线电视台（这次是HBO台）拍摄，并在那个平台上播放，他未来的电影计划似乎就将在有线台展开了。自《性，谎言和录像带》(Sex, Lies and Videotape)开始，他作品的特点便已广为人知——既能吸引主流，又能展现个人的抱负与智慧，同时带有鲜明的个人创意风格。如今，这样的特质在一个关注全球市场和商业大片的体系里日益被边缘化了。
Soderbergh’s grim diagnosis was quickly seconded by George Lucas and Steven Spielberg, once easy scapegoats for the antiblockbuster, quality-cinema movement and now passionate, if somewhat improbable, defenders of artisanal, personal filmmaking. At a widely reported talk at the University of Southern California, they foretold a “big meltdown” of the American film industry. Spielberg declared the current Hollywood business model, which lavishes huge budgets and marketing muscle on superhero tent-poles while forcing movies like “Lincoln” to beg for crumbs, to be unsustainable. A similar lament was offered by the producer Lynda Obst in her book “Sleepless in Hollywood,” which anatomized a “new abnormal” of financial anxiety and creative paralysis, brought about by the collapse of the DVD market and other economic and technological changes. Panic over revenue has left the studios “frozen,” she wrote, and the consequences have to do with more than money: “The gut is frozen, the heart is frozen and even the bottom-line spreadsheet is frozen.”
索德伯格严峻的结论很快受到乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)与斯蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的防御性回应，他俩曾是“反大片”，“追求高质量影院电影”运动中易于攻击的靶子和替罪羊，如今却成为工匠式个人电影的热情辩护人（虽然有些怪异）。在被广泛报道的南加利福尼亚大学讲话上，他俩预言了美国电影业的“大融合”。目前好莱坞的商业模式是为超级英雄主导的影片斥巨资进行大量市场宣传，逼得《林肯》(Lincoln)这样的影片只能乞讨分一点残羹冷炙，斯皮尔伯格断言，这样的模式无法持续下去。制片人琳达·奥布斯特(Lynda Obst)在她的《好莱坞不眠夜》(Sleepless in Hollywood)一书中也发出了同样的哀叹，这本书剖析了DVD市场的崩溃，乃至其他经济和技术变化所导致的财务焦虑与创作无能的“新畸形”。她写道，对收入的恐慌导致制片公司的“冻结”，其后果不仅是经济上的：“勇气冻结了，心灵冻结了，就连财务报表也冻结了。”
Did the box-office chill that settled in through July and August over some pricey flops bear out this pessimism? Or did it offer a measure of hope? As one big-budget action movie after another fell short of expectations (at least domestically), you could hear whispers of magical thinking among film journalists and other concerned parties. Maybe the failure of so many overblown, mediocre movies would inspire the flowering of smaller, better ones. Maybe the audience, fed a steady summer diet of sequels, merchandising tie-ins and animated family fun, was finally saying “enough.” Maybe a lesson could be drawn from the success of the previous year’s crop of Oscar movies, and the future would belong to the Argos and Djangos and Lincolns rather than the Avengers and Transformers.
7月到8月，一些预算高昂的大片遭遇票房寒潮，这是否证实了这种悲观情绪呢？又或者它其实是带来了一线希望？一部又一部高预算动作大片令人失望（至少是在美国国内），你可以听到电影记者和相关人士在窃窃私语，说出一些有魔力的想法。这些过度炒作的平庸影片失败了，但或许可以鼓舞规模较小、质量更好的影片繁荣起来。或许每年夏天都会固定看到系列大片、商业捆绑销售影片与阖家欢动画片的观众们终于开始说“够了”。或许从去年奥斯卡的赢家们身上可以学到东西，或许未来应当属于德黑兰、姜戈与林肯们，而不是复仇者联盟与变形金刚。
But maybe you tuned out all this chatter because you were otherwise occupied: with the last five episodes of “Breaking Bad,” the first season of “Orange Is the New Black” or the rollout of “Grand Theft Auto V,” all of which seemed to loom much larger in the cultural discourse of the late summer than “The Wolverine,” “G.I. Joe,” “We’re the Millers” or “Planes.” It is no longer news that video games are, measured in dollars and hours spent by the young, bigger than movies. And the notion that television is better, a provocative claim just a few years ago, when the memory of “The Sopranos” was still fresh and “The Wire” was winding down, is now conventional wisdom in the era of “Mad Men,” “Game of Thrones,” “The Walking Dead” and “Girls.”
但这些讨论你也许根本就听不进去，因为你正忙着呢——《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)最后五集、《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)第一季，还有《侠盗车手V》(Grand Theft Auto V)的首次亮相，这些似乎都是今夏更重要的文化话题，比《金刚狼》(The Wolverine)、《特种部队》(G.I. Joe)、《冒牌家庭》(We’re the Millers)和《飞机总动员》(Planes)更受关注。年轻人在游戏上花费的金钱和时间远远高于电影，这早已不是什么新闻。而电视剧集更精彩，更令人兴奋的观点则是前几年才提出来的，当时《黑道家族》(The Sopranos)还令人记忆犹新，《火线》(The Wire)就已经接班了；如今提起《广告狂人》(Mad Men)、《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)、《行尸走肉》(The Walking Dead)和《都市女孩》(Girls)，这个说法也成了老生常谈。
The case for the supremacy of television is hard to refute: such an abundance of fine acting, complex storytelling and, increasingly, visual polish, available whenever you want it, in single-episode or binge doses, on the screen of your choosing, without overpriced concessions and rude strangers texting or talking in the next row; a thriving critical bazaar of online recapping and water-cooler plot-spoiling; a business model, free of reliance on first-weekend grosses, that encourages risk-taking and the patient cultivation of a devoted audience.
电视的霸权难以否认：有那么多精彩的表演、复杂的叙事，以及日益精美的视觉效果，而且可以随时观赏，可以一次看一集，也可以一口气看好几集，可以在任何屏幕上看，不必负担过高的票价，也不用忍受粗鲁的陌生人在邻座发短信或聊天；网上有铺天盖地的观感，以及给你泼冷水的剧透，如同评论的大巴扎；这种商业模式摆脱了对上周收视率的依赖，它鼓励冒险，可以慢慢培养忠诚观众。
Equally hard to refute is the idea that we are approaching a horizon of video convergence, in which all those screens will be equal and interchangeable and the distinctions between the stuff that’s shown on each one won’t seem as consequential as it does now. We still tend to take for granted that a cable drama, a network sitcom, a feature film, a web video and a first-person combat game are fundamentally different creatures, but they might really be diverse species within a single genus, their variations ultimately less important than what they have in common. They are all moving pictures, after all, and as our means of access to them proliferate and recombine, those old categories are likely to feel increasingly arbitrary and obsolete. The infrastructure of a multiplatform future is before us, and resistance to it can look like an especially tiresome kind of sentimentality. Cinephilia is nostalgia. We might keep going to the movies out of habit, or because it’s sometimes nice to leave the house, but we are losing the old, sustaining belief that this is a special and exalted cultural activity, the supreme mode of participation in the popular arts.
同样难以否认的是，我们正在走向视频的融合，也就是说，届时所有屏幕都是平等而可以互换的，不同屏幕播放的内容并没有现在这么大的区别。现在我们仍然理所当然地把有线台剧集、无线台情景喜剧、完整长度电影、网络视频和单人格斗游戏视为完全不同的东西，但它们或许其实只是同一门类中的不同变种，它们之间的共性最终将比它们的不同之处来得更加重要。它们毕竟都是移动的画面，随着我们进入这些画面的方式不断增加和重组，旧有的分类将变得更加随意，最终会被淘汰。多媒体平台的未来就摆在我们面前，抵制这一潮流仿佛只是格外无聊的多愁善感。影院癖只是怀旧而已。出于习惯，我们可能还会继续去影院，因为有时候离开家也不错，但我们正在丧失那种古老而持久的信念，即观影是一种特殊而崇高的文化活动，乃至参与流行艺术的至高形式。
And yet — this loss of prestige might turn out to be good for movies and, to borrow Soderbergh’s terms, for cinema. I’m not talking about market share or the job security of executives or about the glamour of red carpets and the glitter of awards shows. My concern is with art and with the survival of a complex and protean form of visual storytelling that has consistently pointed itself in the direction of the new.
然而，丧失特权可能会对电影有好处，借用索德伯格的话说，是对“影院电影”有好处。我不是指市场份额和行政人员的职业保障，抑或红毯上的魅力和颁奖礼上的荣光。我关注的是艺术，乃至这种一贯求新、复杂多变的视觉叙事形式如何生存下去。
It is easy to conclude that movies have surrendered that long-held vanguard position. The creative flowering of television has exposed the complacency and conservatism that rules big-money filmmaking at the studio level, the deep malaise that Soderbergh, Spielberg, Obst and many others, aesthetes and populists alike, have lamented. Audiences are expected to see the same thing — the planet-shaking battle of good and evil; the high jinks of overgrown boy-men; the adventures of a plucky animated creature out to prove himself in a world of celebrity voices — again and again, up to and past the point of exhaustion. Winning formulas and popular brands (Pixar, Marvel, J.R.R. Tolkien, Johnny Depp) are run into the ground, stripped of novelty and magic in pursuit of profit. Visual clichés run amok. If the fight on the speeding train in “The Lone Ranger” wasn’t enough for you, there’s one in “The Wolverine.” At the climax of the latest “Star Trek” movie, Spock and Khan fight it out while San Francisco is smashed to pieces. In the Superman reboot, the Man of Steel and Zog do the same in Metropolis. Does anyone care?
很容易得出这样的结论：电影已经放弃了长期保持的先锋地位。电视创造力的繁盛揭露了制片公司中，大资金电影制作者们之间盛行的自满自足与保守主义，这正是索德伯格、斯皮尔伯格、奥布斯特，乃至唯美主义者和平民论者等许多人们曾经哀叹过的不满。观众看到的都是一模一样的东西——善恶势力之间的星球大战；大男孩们的狂欢作乐；勇敢的动画形象为在一个充满名流的世界上证明自己而去冒险——一遍又一遍，直到审美疲劳。成功的公式与流行品牌（皮克斯[Pixar]、漫威漫画[Marvel]、J·R·R·托尔金[J.R.R. Tolkien]和约翰尼·德普[Johnny Depp]）被搞得令人生厌，为了谋求利润而丧失了新奇与魔力。视觉俗套甚嚣尘上。如果你觉得《独行侠》(The Lone Ranger)里高速行驶的列车上的打斗戏已经足够了，《金刚狼2》里还有一场呢。在最新一部《星际迷航》(Star Trek)影片的高潮部分，史波克和可汗大打出手，旧金山被夷为平地。在《超人》(Superman)续作里，钢铁超人和佐德在米特罗波利斯有同样一场打斗。谁还在乎呢？
But within this landscape of bloat and desolation, there is quite a lot worth caring about. More important, there are filmmakers determined to refine and reinvigorate the medium, to recapture its newness and uniqueness and to figure out, in a post-film, platform-agnostic, digital-everything era, what the art of cinema might be. Like every previous period of decline — which is to say like just about every other moment in the past century — this is an age of wild and restless experimentation. Maybe even a golden age.
但在一片自我膨胀与荒凉的景象中，还有很多值得感兴趣的东西。更重要的是，还有电影人愿意改善和振兴这种媒介，重新发掘它的新奇与独特，并在这个收看平台不明确，一切都数码化了的后电影时代里探索影院电影艺术的可能性。正如从前所有衰落的年代（也就是说，就像上个世纪的每时每刻），这是一个狂野而永无休止的实验时代，或许甚至还是一个黄金时代。
One way that the movies have traditionally asserted themselves in the face of small-screen competition has been to assert their greater size and scale. The arrival of commercial television in the late 1940s sparked the development of wide-screen formats like CinemaScope, the promotion of gimmicks like 3-D and the increased production of lavish Technicolor projects too big and bright for the American living room. The recent return of 3-D and the current ascendancy of long, loud action movies is the latest iteration of this strategy, and has been more or less successful in luring fans to the multiplexes. The use of 3-D was also a way for the distributors to entice theater owners into paying for digital upgrades, because the theaters could set, and keep, the 3-D ticket premium charged for the temporary use of Clark Kent-style glasses.
在同小屏幕竞争时，电影捍卫自己的传统方式就是坚持更大的尺寸与规模。20世纪40年代末，商业电视台的出现刺激了CinemaScope这样的宽银幕立体声电影的产生；3D电影之类促销噱头，以及大量以彩色印片法(Technicolor)拍摄的影片太过宏大明亮，不适宜在美国人的起居室里播出。近来，3D技术的回归，以及大量冗长吵闹的动作电影都是当年那种战略的重复，多少成功地吸引影迷来到多厅影院。3D技术的使用也可以让影片发行者们怂恿影院老板花钱升级数码设备，因为这样影院就可以向观众收取临时使用3D眼镜的额外费用，那眼镜差不多像《超人》里克拉克·肯特的眼镜那么大。
After an initial burst of curiosity, however, goosed by releases like “Avatar” and “Up,” the audience’s interest in 3-D seemed to taper off. And then along came “Gravity,” which may be the first must-see 3-D motion picture of the decade, and which both fulfills the criteria of modern movie spectacle and cuts against the grain of blockbuster convention. It is large beyond imagining: the images orchestrated by the director, Alfonso Cuarón and his cinematographer, Emmanuel Lubezki, are infinite in their depth and vastness. You see the whole earth in celestial chiaroscuro and feel the inky endlessness of outer space. Everything floats — astronauts, their spacecraft, a stray piece of hardware — and the viewer’s sense of the screen as a stable, bounded plane dissolves completely. You are in the realm of the science-fiction sublime, a place familiar to earlier generations who had their minds blown by “2001: A Space Odyssey” or their mythopoetic funny bones tickled by “Star Wars.”
然而，在《阿凡达》(Avatar)与《飞屋环游记》(Up)刺激下的最初一阵好奇心狂潮过去之后，观众对3D电影的兴趣似乎在逐渐削弱。接着又来了《地心引力》(Gravity)，它可能是十年来第一部非看不可的3D影片了，既满足了现代电影奇观的标准，同时又与大片的俗套格格不入。它的宏大超越了想像：是由导演阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)与摄影师艾曼努尔·卢贝兹基(Emmanuel Lubezki)谱写的视觉交响乐，具有无穷无尽的深度与广度。你可以在天穹的光影对照之间看到地球的全貌，体会黑邃无尽的外层空间。一切都在漂浮——太空员、他们的航天器、零散的设备——观者不再能够把屏幕当做一块稳定的、有界限的平面。你置身于科幻的庄严世界，有点像前几代人被《2001：太空漫游》(2001: A Space Odyssey)所震撼，或是被《星球大战》(Star Wars)挑起神话诗兴致时的感觉。
But you are also in intimate space and in the grip of a story that is fast, simple and elemental. The machinery of visual grandeur has been detached from the usual grinding apparatus of mock profundity that characterizes the fantasy and science-fiction genres. “Gravity,” a scant 90 minutes long, is a survival story, a tight little anecdote about an individual — Sandra Bullock’s NASA mission specialist Ryan Stone — using her training, her native wit and her improvisational skills to surmount a series of obstacles. As such, it is also an allegory of old-school, precorporate filmmaking, in which the wily artist has to rely on craft, technique, dumb luck and sketchy equipment to accomplish the impossible.
但它也同样讲述了一个关乎内心世界的故事，快捷、简单而基本。在这里，只有视觉奇观，没有奇幻和科幻电影中常见的累赘的伪深沉。《地心引力》不到90分钟，是一个求生的故事，讲了一个人的小小轶事（桑德拉·布洛克[Sandra Bullock]饰演的NASA任务专家瑞安·斯通[Ryan Stone]），她如何应用自己的技能、本能的智慧与随机应变的能力去战胜一系列困难。这本身也隐喻着大公司制作出现之前的老电影，在那个年代，狡黠的艺术家得依靠手工、技术、运气和简陋的工具去拍摄电影，完成那不可能完成的任务。
Every movie about problem solving, whether a heist picture or a man-against-the-elements melodrama, can be seen as a metaphorical account of its own making. As they proliferate — “Gravity,” “All Is Lost” and “Captain Phillips” arrived in theaters this fall within a few weeks of one another — such stories add up to an allegorical epic of cinema itself, personified by an embattled underdog who is also a powerfully competent hero. Bullock’s solitary astronaut, swirling through chaos and cataclysm with no help from Houston and only a ghostly mentor for moral support, is a portrait of the artist as a scrappy loner. So are Robert Redford’s shipwrecked, nameless mariner in “All Is Lost” and Tom Hanks’s hard-pressed Captain Phillips.
所有以“解决问题”为主题的电影，不管是神偷电影还是人类独自对抗自然的电影，都可以作为它自身拍摄过程的隐喻。这样的影片不断增加——今年秋天，《地心引力》、《一切尽失》(All Is Lost)和《菲利普船长》(Captain Phillips)在几周内接踵而至——它们累积起来，就像是关于电影本身的寓言史诗，将电影化身为一个顽强战斗的失败者形象，但这个失败者同时也是强大有力的英雄。布洛克饰演的孤独宇航员在混沌与灾祸中周旋，没有休斯敦的帮助，只有一个幽灵般的导师提供道德支援，这正是一幅化身为混乱孤独者的艺术家肖像。还有罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)在《一切尽失》中饰演的失事船只上的无名水手，以及汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)饰演的身处困境的菲利普船长。
All of them stress the singularity of the cinematic enterprise. At least in the fantasies these movies contain, there is no writers’ room, no network hierarchy, none of the comforts and second chances of the long, serial form. The larger structures on which the characters depend — the silent, hulking container ships that pass by Redford’s character in “All Is Lost”; the international military-industrial complex that put Stone, her co-workers and a million tons of metal into orbit; the U.S. military that turns Captain Phillips’s rescue into a lethally efficient exercise in overkill — represent the powerful, soulless studios. They can initiate, finance or support your mission, but you can’t count on them to save you when things go wrong. At the movies, you have just one shot, and you’re always on your own.
这些人都昭示着电影工业的奇异处境。至少在这些电影中所包含的幻想中没有作家的房间，没有网络等级制度，没有漫长连续剧中的舒适与后路。片子人物所倚仗的更大的结构——《一切尽失》中静静驶过雷德福所饰角色的一艘艘大船；把斯通和同事们，乃至上百万吨金属送上太空的国际军工中心；以及把营救菲利普船长的行动变为高效率屠杀的美国军方——它们象征着强大而没有灵魂的制片公司。它们可以发起、赞助或支援你的任务，但当情势急转直下，你不能指望它们来救你。在这些电影中，你只有一次机会，你永远只能依靠自己。
In other words, these movies are defiant fables of auteurism. It is exactly this principle — the supremacy of the individual artist — that the globalized Hollywood economy is believed to have threatened. Even though Soderbergh has resisted the auteur label and has refused to take the “a film by” credit, the “specificity of vision” whose eclipse he warned against implicitly belongs to the director. And even though television currently lionizes its show runners — some of whom, as Brett Martin argued in a recent book, may fashion their “difficult” protagonists in their own images — TV criticism has not yet erected a cult of the individual artist, whose intentions are legible in the images on screen.
换言之，这些电影是关于导演中心制的大胆寓言。全球化的好莱坞经济所威胁的，正是这个“艺术家个人独掌大权”的准则。尽管索德伯格反对“大导演”这个标签，拒绝在片头使用“索德伯格电影”这样的署名，但他所担心的“视觉特异性”无疑正与导演相关。诚然，电视剧也捧红了很多导演，布莱特·马丁(Brett Martin)在最近的一本书中指出，他们当中一些人会把自己的形象投射在剧中“复杂”的主角身上——然而，电视评论界还没有树立起一位可以通过银幕形象表达自己意图的个人艺术家作为偶像。
Cinema, in Soderbergh’s formulation, is what happens when some kind of personal expression is visible through the conventions of genre and the compromises imposed by the various contingencies of production. No filmmaker works in conditions of perfect freedom. A great deal, from the sources of funding to the participation of actors to the weather on set, remains permanently beyond the director’s control. But some manage to assert themselves, to draw the audience’s attention away from the details of the story or the charisma of the actors toward something more idiosyncratic, a presence that is difficult to identify but at the same time hard to miss.
在索德伯格的构想中，影院电影要遵循类型片惯例，乃至与制片过程中各种意外事件进行妥协，最终实现个人表达。没有任何导演的创作是完全自由的。从资金来源到选角，乃至外景地的天气等大量情况都是导演永远无法掌握的。但有些导演还是能够尽量表达自己的主张，令观众注意到故事细节与演员魅力之外的某些奇异的东西，那是一种难以形容却又无法忽略的气质。
What movies enable — what they may now, in fact, depend on — is the radical assertion of directorial presence, the refusal of any given film to conform to the available models and dominant expectations. I am not talking about avant-garde or experimental filmmaking here, or even about the willful quirk and stammering solipsism that parades under the faded, outdated “indie” label. I’m thinking of the audacity of “Gravity,” with its big budget, big movie stars and huge box office, and the even greater boldness of “All Is Lost,” which blithely ignores some of the most basic axioms of moviemaking. The cast consists of one person, who utters a few dozen words and whose story is told with virtually no exposition. We don’t know his name, his profession, his back story or anything else. Nothing has been done to make him relatable or representative or universal, even as he becomes all of those things.
电影使导演有可能强力地主张个人气质，正是这种气质令一部电影不至于一味遵循行之有效的模式与大众的普遍期待。而如今的电影，可能事实上正是依赖于导演的个人气质。我这里不是在说前卫或实验电影；或者是在模糊过时的“独立”标签掩盖下，那些刻意求怪与自我中心的电影。我想到的是《地心引力》的大胆，它有着大笔制作费用，启用了大明星，获得了巨大票房；而《一切尽失》则更加大胆，它欢快地忽略了电影制作中的一些最基本的原则。全部演员只有一个人，他念叨着一些短句，他的故事其实也不怎么详尽。我们不知道他的名字、职业、背景和其他东西。影片没有费任何力气去让他显得动人、有代表性或有普遍性，但他最后确实显得动人、有代表性和普遍性。
Television, well established as a writer’s medium, depends on talk, and also on the interweaving of multiple plot lines over the span of weeks and seasons. Every now and then, a series will change up the rhythm with, for example, what is called a “bottle episode,” focusing on a single series of actions in a confined space. (The “Girls” episode “One Man’s Trash,” in which Hannah shacked up for a weekend with a brownstone-dwelling doctor played by Patrick Wilson, is an example, as is “Fly,” an hour of “Breaking Bad” that never leaves the cavernous underground meth lab where Walt and Jesse ply their trade.) But movies are freer to stay in one place, to narrow their focus and also to stray from the imperatives of linear narration.
电视剧是一种属于编剧的媒介，它依赖对话，依赖多重情节在几周乃至几季之间的交织。剧集需要不时变换节奏，比如所谓的“瓶中集”就是一种手法，一整集专门拍摄一个限定的空间里发生的一系列事件。《都市女孩》中的《一个人的垃圾》(One Man’s Trash)就是“瓶中集”，汉娜和帕特里克·威尔逊(Patrick Wilson)饰演的富裕医生同住了一个周末。又如《绝命毒师》中的《飞翔》(Fly)这集，长一个小时，全都发生在沃尔特和杰西洞穴般的地下制毒实验室。但电影可以更自由地停留在某一个地方，把视线聚焦在某处，自由地偏离线性叙事的规则。
“All Is Lost” may bear a thematic kinship with “Gravity” and other chronicles of survival, but its more interesting counterpart in the cinema of 2013 is Richard Linklater’s “Before Midnight,” the third installment in the romantic adventures of Celine and Jesse (Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke), who met on a train outside Vienna 18 years ago and have not stopped talking since. The formal radicalism of “Before Midnight” lies in its devotion to talk — digressive, indulgent, furious, pointless — at the expense of just about everything else. The words are as relentless and remarkable as the silence that shrouds “All Is Lost.” The dialogue does not enhance the action; it is the action. It doesn’t reveal the characters; it creates them and creates the illusion that what happens between them is spontaneous, unpredictable and real.
《一切尽失》和《地心引力》等生存叙事片有类似的主题，但是拿它和理查德·林特莱克(Richard Linklater)的《爱在午夜降临前》(Before Midnight)相对照则更加有趣。这部片子是赛琳娜与杰西（茱莉·德尔佩[Julie Delpy]与伊桑·霍克[Ethan Hawke]饰）的浪漫冒险的第三部，两人18年前在开往维也纳的火车上结识，之后感情一直发展。《爱在午夜降临前》的激进之处在于它热衷对话，时而离题，时而放纵，时而愤怒，时而毫无意义，它把对话置于一切之上。从无间断的对话十分引人注意，正如沉默寂静包裹着《一切尽失》。在《爱在午夜降临前》里，对话并不推进情节，它就是情节本身。它不是揭示人物性格，而是直接创造人物，创造一种幻相，仿佛发生在他们之间的事都是自发的，无法预测的，真实的。
But the tireless verbal back-and-forth between Celine and Jesse also calls attention to the wonderful artifice they inhabit, a world that cannily evokes the cinematic past (the six moral tales of Eric Rohmer, the rough-and-tumble ’30s and ’40s Hollywood comedies of marriage and remarriage), even as it unfolds entirely in the present tense. The next episode might arrive nine years from now, or not at all, and this uncertainty is part of what makes “Before Midnight,” stubbornly and irreducibly, a movie.
但赛琳娜和杰西之间不知疲倦的来言去语也让人们注意到他们栖身在精彩的艺术虚构世界之中，这个世界可以巧妙地令人回忆起电影的过去（埃里克·侯麦[Eric Rohmer]的六个道德故事，乃至20世纪30、40年代好莱坞关于婚姻与再婚的混乱喜剧），虽然影片对话完全以现代时态进行。这个系列电影的下一集或许将在九年后拍出，又或者根本就没有下一集，这种不确定性也是《爱在午夜降临前》成为一部“电影”的重要一环，如此顽强、不可减损。
Once you start to notice it, movieness is everywhere. In the black-and-white rural landscapes and patient, elliptical comic movements of Alexander Payne’s “Nebraska”; in the black-and-white cityscapes and New Wave rhythms of Noah Baumbach’s “Frances Ha”; in the artfully faked home movies that turn Sarah Polley’s “Stories We Tell” from a personal documentary into something much weirder; in the improbable collision of styles (camp, melodrama, realism both magic and kitchen sink) that propels “Lee Daniels’ The Butler.”
一旦你开始留意，就会发现“电影气质”其实无处不在——亚历山大·佩恩(Alexander Payne)的《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)中的黑白乡村风景与耐心而简洁的滑稽动作；诺亚·鲍姆巴赫(Noah Baumbach)的《弗兰西斯·哈》(Frances Ha)中的黑白城市风光与新浪潮节奏；巧妙的虚构家庭录像令莎拉·波利(Sarah Polley)的《我们讲述的故事》(Stories We Tell)从个人纪录片变成更怪诞的东西；各种形式之间不可思议的冲突（坎普、情节剧、魔幻现实主义与日常现实主义）始终推动着李·丹尼尔斯(Lee Daniels)的《白宫管家》(The Butler)。
You might end up watching these at a theater, on a tablet or in your den, courtesy of Netflix or BitTorrent or your local cable provider. But you will not be able to mistake them for anything but movies. What is cinema? You know it when you see it.
你可以在影院、在平板电脑上，或是在书房里观看这些影片，可以通过Netflix或BitTorrent或者本地有线台来看它们。但你不会弄错，它们不是别的，正是电影。究竟什么是电影呢？当你看到它，你就会知道。