The best way to enjoy Baz Luhrmann’s big and noisy new version of “The Great Gatsby” — and despite what you may have heard, it is an eminently enjoyable movie — is to put aside whatever literary agenda you are tempted to bring with you. I grant that this is not so easily done. F. Scott Fitzgerald’s slender, charming third novel has accumulated a heavier burden of cultural significance than it can easily bear. Short and accessible enough to be consumed in a sitting (as in “Gatz,” Elevator Repair Service’s full-text staged reading), the book has become, in the 88 years since its publication, a schoolroom staple and a pop-cultural totem. It shapes our increasingly fuzzy image of the jazz age and fuels endless term papers on the American dream and related topics.
观赏巴兹·鲁赫曼(Baz Luhrman)宏大喧闹的《了不起的盖茨比》最新电影版的最佳方式（虽然你可能已经知道了，这是一部非常赏心悦目的电影），就是抛开小说的文学性带给你的影响。我向你保证，要做到这一点可不容易。《了不起的盖茨比》微妙而迷人，是F·斯科特·菲茨杰拉德(F. Scott Fitzgerald)的第三部小说，它渐渐积累起一种文化上的重要意义，超越了小说本身。这本书篇幅短，容易理解，可以一口气读完（比如“电梯修理服务”[Elevator Repair Service]剧团的《盖茨》[Gatz]，就是把这部小说在舞台上全文朗读一遍），出版88年以来，它已成为学校里的重要读物和流行文化图腾。它帮我们留住了爵士年代日益模糊的影像，也催生出无数关于美国梦和相关主题的学期论文。
Through this fog of glib allusion and secondhand thinking, the wistful glimmer of Fitzgerald’s prose shines like the green light at the end of Daisy Buchanan’s dock. If “The Great Gatsby” can’t quite sustain the Big Ideas that are routinely attached to it — a fact that periodically inspires showboating critical contrarians to proclaim that it’s not such a big deal after all — it nonetheless remains a lively, imaginative presence. The book may not be as Great as its reputation, but it is also, partly for that reason, better than you might expect. It is flawed and flimsy in some ways, but it still manages to be touching, surprising and, in its bittersweet fashion, a lot of fun.
肤浅的影射和二手的想法重重笼罩在这篇小说上，但是菲茨杰拉德的文笔仍然透过这团迷雾，焕发着充满沉思的微光，就如同黛西·布坎南家码头上的绿灯。就算《了不起的盖茨比》并没有承载那些经常被附加给它的伟大思想——这个事实不时鼓励着好出风头、爱挑剔的反对者们主张这本书并非多么出色的杰作——不管怎么说，它仍然充满活力，引人遐想。《了不起的盖茨比》可能有些盛名之下其实难副，但它仍然比你可能预期的要好，部分原因正是因为它其实不那么“了不起”。它在某些方面充满缺陷，并不严谨，但它仍然打动人心、令人惊讶，而且以悲喜交集的的方式为读者带来许多乐趣。
All of which is to say that whatever you think of Mr. Luhrmann’s energetic, brightly colored rendering of the sad story of Jay Gatsby, the Trimalchio of West Egg, Long Island, it should at least be immune to accusations of sacrilege. “Gatsby” is not gospel; it is grist for endless reinterpretation. Mr. Luhrmann’s reverence for the source material is evident. He sticks close to the details of the story and lifts dialogue and description directly from the novel’s pages. But he has also felt free to make that material his own, bending it according to his artistic sensibility and what he takes to be the mood of the times. The result is less a conventional movie adaptation than a splashy, trashy opera, a wayward, lavishly theatrical celebration of the emotional and material extravagance that Fitzgerald surveyed with fascinated ambivalence.
鲁赫曼为住在长岛上的杰·盖茨比，西卵的特里马乔(Trimalchio of West Egg)悲伤的故事赋予了充满活力的明亮色彩，开篇那些话是想告诉你，不管你对这部电影怎么看，都不应当指责它亵渎神圣。《盖茨比》不是福音书；它应当是用来不断重新阐释的材料。鲁赫曼对原著的尊重显而易见。他十分忠实于书中的细节，从原书中直接选取对话和描述。但他也自如地把这些素材变成了自己的东西，根据自己的艺术品味和对那个时代氛围的理解去改造它。其结果与其说是一部有争议的改编电影，倒不如说是一部风格鲜明，引人瞩目的戏剧，如同一场奢华任性的电影庆典，足以献给菲茨杰拉德带着矛盾的迷恋所描绘的情感放荡与物质放纵。
This is the first time Mr. Luhrmann has taken up an American source in an American setting (though his cast is mostly British and Australian), and his vision of 1920s Manhattan is exactly as naturalistic as his portrait of Belle Époque Paris in “Moulin Rouge” which is to say not very much. Tom Buchanan (Joel Edgerton) is still a bully and a bigot, spouting the popular racist pseudoscience of his day. The gangster Meyer Wolfsheim (Amitabh Bachchan) is a bit less of a cringe-worthy anti-Semitic caricature than he was in 1925. The poverty of George and Myrtle Wilson (Jason Clarke and Isla Fisher) remains a grim contrast to the endless ease of Gatsby and the Buchanans. But all of these people occupy a cartoon America that no living person has ever visited.
这是鲁赫曼第一次在美国拍摄以美国为背景的故事（尽管他的演员大部分来自英国和澳大利亚），他对20世纪20年代曼哈顿的设想，正如他在《红磨坊》(Moulin Rouge)中对“美好时代”(Belle Époque)巴黎的勾勒一般写实，换句话说就是并不太像。汤姆·布坎南（乔伊·埃哲顿[Joel Edgerton]饰）仍然粗暴顽固，满嘴都是他那个年代最流行的种族主义伪科学。恶棍梅耶尔·沃夫谢姆（阿米特巴·巴赫卡安[Amitabh Bachchan]饰），不像1925年原版中那样，完全是一幅丑化犹太人的尴尬漫画。乔治与米特·威尔逊夫妇（杰森·克拉克[Jason Clarke]与艾拉·菲舍尔[Isla Fisher]饰）的贫困依然与盖茨比和布坎南夫妇轻松的生活形成鲜明对比。但所有人都居住在一个卡通化的美国，并没有任何生活中的人曾经造访过那里。
Some of the finely shaded social distinctions that preoccupied Fitzgerald — between Easterners and Westerners, new money and old — are noted, but they don’t have a whole lot of resonance. We are in a world of artifice and illusion, confected from old-fashioned production-design virtuosity and newfangled digital hocus-pocus.
菲茨杰拉德执着地描述某些隐蔽的社会差别——比如东区与西区的差别，新富阶层与旧有富裕阶层的差别——电影注意到了这一点，但它们没能引起多少共鸣。我们被电影带进一个充满虚伪和幻觉的世界，由老式产品设计收藏专家和新生代数码骗术高手联合打造。
In the 3-D version, the viewer swoops and swerves through one of Gatsby’s parties in a movement that combines Vincente Minnelli-style suavity with the controlled vertigo of a theme park ride. As it happens, Nick Carraway (Tobey Maguire) compares the sybaritic scene at Gatsby’s mansion to “an amusement park.” And Mr. Luhrmann’s peculiar genius — also the thing that drives cultural purists of various stripes crazy — lies in his eager, calculating mix of refinement and vulgarity.
在3-D版里，观众不断改变视角，俯瞰着盖茨比的一次派对，镜头运动结合了文森特·明奈利(Vincente Minnelli)风格的温和，以及主题公园旅行式的有节制的晕眩——尼克·卡拉威（托比·马奎尔[Tobey Maguire]饰）正好将盖茨比宅邸中骄奢淫逸的场面比做“游乐场”。鲁赫曼的特别天赋在于他热切而精于算计地把优雅和粗野融为一体，不过这也会令各路文化卫道士们发疯吧。
Neither Fitzgerald nor Nick, his diffident mouthpiece, was immune to the seductions of hedonism and luxury, and the book does not entirely succeed as a critique of American materialism at what seemed to be its high-water mark. Mr. Luhrmann, for his part, does not resist at all. He fuses the iconography of dressed-up ’20s decadence with the swagger of hip-hop high-end consumerism. Jay Gatsby has got money. He’s got cars. He’ll spend a hundred grand over by the bar.
无论是菲茨杰拉德本人和尼克（也就是作者的代言人）面对奢侈享乐都无法做到无动于衷，这本书并不完全如拔高的评论所说，是对美国物质至上主义的成功批判。而鲁赫曼则根本就没有反对物质主义。他把20年代盛装下的衰颓与hip-hop文化中高端消费主义的浮夸结合起来——杰·盖茨比有钱有车，能在酒吧里一掷千金。
But unlike, say, Jay-Z (an executive producer of the film), Jay Gatsby is a rich man whose modest background and criminal past are something to be hidden, sources of mystery, shame and potential ruin. To Tom Buchanan, Gatsby is “Mr. Nobody from Nowhere,” while to Nick he is a shimmering enigma, first glimpsed through the window of his colossal home.
不过，杰·盖茨比虽然是有钱人，但他和Jay-Z（他是电影的执行制作人）这样的人不一样，他的贫寒出身以及犯罪历史都需要遮遮掩掩，这是他的神秘感与耻辱的来源，还有可能导致他的毁灭。对于汤姆·布坎南来说，盖茨比是“不知从哪里来的无名小卒”；而尼克呢，第一次透过盖茨比宅邸的窗子看到他时，就觉得他是个熠熠闪光的谜团。
To those of us watching in our modest multiplex seats, he is a movie star. In previous incarnations he was Robert Redford, Alan Ladd and Warner Baxter, and now Leonardo DiCaprio has slipped into the ice cream suit and the curious diction. “Old sport” may be the two hardest words for an American actor to say, but for Gatsby himself they were an affectation, so it is possible to overlook Mr. DiCaprio’s overdone accent. (I do wish he would try a performance without one, though.) More important, it is impossible to look away from him. His charisma has increased as his youthful prettiness has worn and thickened away, and he is beautiful, sad, confident and desperate in exactly the way Gatsby should be.
而对于我们这些坐在影院普通座椅上的观众们来说，他是一个电影明星。此前他曾由罗伯特·莱德福特(Robert Redford)、艾伦·拉德(Alan Ladd)与沃纳·巴克斯特演绎，如今又由套上冰淇淋色西装、操着古怪口音的莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)饰演。对于美国演员来说，“老伙计”(Old Sport)可能是天下最生硬的三个字，但是对于盖茨比本人来说却是一个爱称，所以可以无视迪卡普里奥夸张的语调（不过我确实希望他可以不用这种腔调说话）。更重要的是，观众没法把视线从迪卡普里奥身上离开。岁月销蚀了他的青春美貌，但他的个人魅力反而增加了，此时的他美丽、忧伤、自信、绝望，这正是盖茨比应有的样子。
Everything in the movie — and nearly everything in the novel — passes through a double lens of romanticism. Gatsby is partly a creature of Nick’s imagination, and conjures up his own idealized vision of Daisy (Carey Mulligan), the girl he left behind and acquired his ill-gotten fortune to win back.
电影中的一切——乃至小说中的绝大部分——都是透过一幅浪漫主义的双重透镜来呈现的。盖茨比身上有一部分是尼克的想象，而盖茨比又用想象构建出自己心目中理想化的黛西（凯莉·穆里根[Carey Mulligan]饰），当年他离开了这个女孩，现在要用自己的不义之财把她赢回来。
Is the tale of Daisy and Gatsby a credible love story? Fitzgerald himself was not sure, but Mr. Luhrmann, Mr. DiCaprio and Ms. Mulligan make it an effective one. At a crucial, climactic moment — a scene in a suite at the Plaza Hotel — the director mutes his irrepressible, circus ringmaster showmanship and plunges into undiluted melodrama. The music stops, and the camera cuts among the assembled faces as the emotional core of the film is laid bare.
这个黛西与盖茨比的爱情故事靠得住吗？菲茨杰拉德本人并不确定，但鲁赫曼、迪卡普里奥与穆里根让它变得有血有肉。在全剧关键的高潮时刻——发生在Plaza酒店套房里的一场戏——导演弱化了自己抑制不住的、马戏团指挥般的炫技表演，深深投入纯粹的情节中去。音乐停止了，镜头在人们的面孔之间切换，影片的情感核心在此一目了然。
That scene stands out in a movie that is otherwise gaudily and grossly inauthentic. Jay Gatsby is too, of course. He is self-invented and also self-deluded, spinning out fantasies for himself and others as easily as he gives parties. As a character in Nick’s ruminations, in Fitzgerald’s sentences and in our national mythology, he is a complete mess. This movie is worthy of him.
在这部俗丽而且基本上虚假的电影中，这一幕戏格外突出。杰·盖茨比当然也很醒目。他靠个人奋斗起家，同时也自欺欺人，为自己和其他人编造出奇幻的故事，就像他开派对那么容易。作为尼克心目中的人物、菲茨杰拉德笔下的主人公乃至我们的国民神话中的主角，他完全是一团糟。这部电影配得上他。
“The Great Gatsby” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Cigarettes, adultery, illegal hooch and other jazz age vices.
《了不起的盖茨比》被分类为PG-13级（家长应强烈注意）。内有吸烟、色情、私酒交易、艺妓及其他爵士时代的恶行。