Gordon Willis, a master cinematographer whose work on “The Godfather,” “Manhattan,” “Annie Hall,” “Klute,” “All the President’s Men” and other seminal movies of the 1970s made his name synonymous with that pathbreaking decade in American moviemaking, died on Sunday at his home in North Falmouth, Mass. He was 82.
电影摄影大师戈登·威利斯(Gordon Willis)周日于马萨诸塞州北法尔茅斯家中逝世，享年82岁。他的《教父》(The Godfather)、《曼哈顿》(Manhattan)、《安妮·霍尔》(Annie Hall)、《花街杀人王》(Klute)、《惊天大阴谋》(All the President’s Men)以及其他20世纪70年代影响深远的电影令他的名字与美国电影开创性的十年画上了等号。
The cause was metastatic cancer, his son Gordon Willis Jr. said.
他的儿子小戈登·威利斯(Gordon Willis Jr.)说，死因是癌症转移。
Mr. Willis created some of the most indelible cinematic imagery of the ‘70s — or of any decade, for that matter — giving narrative propulsion to adventurous screenplays while expressing the moral ambiguities at the heart of so many of that decade’s films and of the society they mirrored.
威利斯拍下了20世纪70年代若干最令人难忘的银幕画面，他的镜头为大胆的剧本增添叙事推动力，同时表达道德的模糊，这种模糊性是那十年间许多电影的核心，也是它们所反映的这个社会的核心问题。
Three films that he shot — Francis Ford Coppola’s “The Godfather” (1972) and “The Godfather Part II” (1974) and Woody Allen’s “Annie Hall” (1977) — won the Academy Award for best picture.
他拍摄的三部电影曾经荣获奥斯卡最佳影片奖：弗朗西斯·福特·科波拉(Francis Ford Coppola)的《教父》(1972)与《教父2》(1974)，以及伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)的《安妮·霍尔》(1977)。
Yet Mr. Willis, a native New Yorker who chose to live on the East Coast, harbored an antipathy toward Hollywood that may have been mutual. From 1971 to 1977, seven films he photographed earned a total of 39 Oscar nominations, 19 of which won the award. He received not one of those nominations, to the astonishment of many of the peers he influenced.
然而威利斯是纽约人，他选择生活在东海岸，对好莱坞一直心怀反感，好莱坞对他似乎也是如此。从1971年到1977年，他所拍摄的七部电影共赢得39项奥斯卡提名，其中19项最终获奖。他本人却没有赢得一项提名，这令很多深受他影响的同行大为震惊。
”If there were a Mount Rushmore for cinematographers, Gordon’s features would surely be chiseled into the rock face,” said Stephen Pizzello, the editor in chief and publisher of American Cinematographer magazine.
“如果有为电影摄影师设立的拉什莫尔山（拉什莫尔山位于南达科他州西部，花岗岩的一面山体上雕有四位美国总统的头像——译注），戈登的脸就应当被刻在岩石上面，”《美国电影摄影师》(American Cinematographer)杂志的主编兼出版人斯蒂芬·皮泽罗(Stephen Pizzello)说。
Ultimately, Mr. Willis got two Oscar nominations for his cinematography — for Mr. Coppola’s “The Godfather Part III” (1990) and Mr. Allen’s “Zelig” (1983), but won neither — and he received an honorary Oscar in 2009.
最后，威利斯获得了两项奥斯卡最佳摄影提名——科波拉的《教父3》(1990)和伍迪·艾伦的《西力传》(Zelig, 1983)，但均未最终获奖。2009年，他获得奥斯卡终身成就奖。
The cinematographer Conrad Hall called Mr. Willis “the prince of darkness” for his daring use of minimalist light and embrace of shadows. It was fully on display in “The Godfather,” in the haunted look of Marlon Brando’s Don Corleone and in the gothic composition of Don Corleone’s study, and in the lush, romanticized images of Mr. Allen’s beloved Manhattan in the bittersweet 1979 comedy of the same name.
电影摄影师康拉德·霍尔(Conrad Hall)说威利斯是“黑暗王子”，因为他大胆使用极简灯光，并且大量使用阴影。这在《教父》中有充分的体现，诸如马龙·白兰度(Marlon Brando)饰演的唐·柯里昂(Don Corleone)脸上飘忽的神情、唐·柯里昂书房内的哥特式布局；此外在伍迪·艾伦1979年苦乐交织的喜剧片《曼哈顿》中，他为艾伦深爱的曼哈顿所拍下的那些丰富而浪漫的画面。
Shot in convention-defying wide-screen, 35-millimeter black and white, “Manhattan,” as much as any Willis film, showed the emotional impact that a cinematographer can have.
《曼哈顿》使用挑战传统的宽银幕，35毫米黑白胶片，威利斯的许多其他影片也是以这种形式拍摄，尽可能地从摄影师的角度传达出情感的冲击。
Mr. Willis worked in almost all genres, including westerns (“Bad Company,” “Comes a Horseman”), screwball comedies (“The Money Pit”) and period pieces (Mr. Allen’s “A Midsummer Night’s Sex Comedy” and “The Purple Rose of Cairo”). Some, like Herb Ross’s “Pennies From Heaven” (1981), with Steve Martin and Bernadette Peters, defied conventions, mixing elements of romance, dark drama and Depression-era Hollywood musical.
威利斯拍摄过各种类型的电影，包括西部片《坏伙伴》(Bad Company)、《跃马山庄》(Comes a Horseman)，荒诞喜剧片《金钱陷阱》(The Money Pit)以及伍迪·艾伦的《仲夏夜性喜剧》(A Midsummer Night’s Sex Comedy)和《开罗紫玫瑰》(The Purple Rose of Cairo)等历史片。其中赫布·罗斯(Herb Ross)1981年的《天降财神》(Pennies From Heaven)由史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)和伯纳黛特·彼得斯(Bernadette Peters)主演，更是挑战传统，融合了爱情片、黑色电影与大萧条时代好莱坞音乐片的风格。
Mr. Willis collaborated with the director Alan J. Pakula on six films, three of which — “Klute” (1971), “The Parallax View” (1974) and “All the President’s Men” (1976) — established the paranoid thriller as a subgenre of American cinema.
威利斯与导演艾伦·J·帕库拉(Alan J. Pakula)合作拍摄过六部电影，其中《花街杀人王》(1971)、《视差》(The Parallax View, 1974)和《惊天大阴谋》(1976)三部影片为偏执惊悚片在美国电影界奠定了亚类型电影地位。
Mr. Willis made virtuoso use of darkness in those films, alternating it with a stark white light that implied more than it revealed. 
在这些影片中，威利斯娴熟地使用黑暗，黑暗与刺眼的白光交替，暗示出画面所呈现的东西之外的更多意味。
Mr. Willis was known for his mechanical innovations as well. For “All the President’s Men,” he placed a winch in the dome of the Library of Congress so that a remote-controlled camera could be sent aloft from a desktop, providing, in a single shot, a full view of the library.
威利斯同样以对技术的创新而闻名。在《惊天大阴谋》中，他在国会图书馆的穹顶上设置了一架绞车，让一架遥控摄像机从桌面升到高处，用一个镜头给出图书馆的全景。
But it was his celebrated use of light that he was most often asked about, particularly in “The Godfather.” He spoke about it in 1995, when he received a lifetime achievement award from the American Society of Cinematographers.
但人们经常向他问起的，还是他对光线的使用，特别是在《教父》中。1995年，当他接受美国电影摄影师协会终身成就奖时，他曾说起此事。
“People said, ‘You can’t see his eyes,’ “ he remarked, referring to Brando’s Don Corleone. “Well, you didn’t see his eyes in 10 percent of the movie, and there was a reason why. I remember asking: ‘Why do you have to see his eyes in that scene? Based on what?’ Do you know what the answer was? ‘That’s the way it was done in Hollywood.’ ”
“人们说，‘你看不见他的眼睛，’”他是指白兰度饰演的唐·柯里昂。“是的，在片中10%的部分里，你看不见他的眼睛，这是有原因的。我记得自己当时问：‘在那一幕里，你为什么非得看见他的眼睛不可？理由是什么？’你猜他们怎么回答？‘因为好莱坞就是这么干的。’”
“That’s not a good enough reason,” he continued. “There were times when we didn’t want the audience to see what was going on in there, and then, suddenly, you let them see into his soul for a while.”
“这不是一个好理由，”他继续说道，“有时候我们不想让观众看到发生了什么，然后突然之间，你再让他们短暂地看到他的灵魂深处。”
Gordon Hugh Willis was born in Astoria, Queens, on May 28, 1931, the child of former Broadway dancers. Young Gordon grew up loving movies and wanting to be an actor, but after performing in some summer stock productions he gravitated toward stage design, theater lighting and ultimately photography.
戈登·休·威利斯(Gordon Hugh Willis)1931年5月28日生于皇后区阿斯托利亚，父母是百老汇的舞蹈演员。戈登从小喜欢电影，希望成为演员，但在几部夏令剧目中演出之后，他的重心便转向舞台设计与舞台照明，最后又转向摄影。
He began his photography career by shooting portfolio pictures for models he had met when his family lived in Greenwich Village and his father worked as a makeup man at the Warner Brothers studio in Brooklyn.
他的摄影生涯始于为全家居住在格林威治村时认识的模特们拍摄应聘用的照片集，当时他的父亲在布鲁克林的华纳兄弟电影公司担任化妆师。
“I was going to be a fashion photographer!” he told an interviewer in 2009. “I was dumber than dirt, as they say. No money, no jobs, etc. Meanwhile my father had some friends that got me some jobs as a gofer on some movies that were passing through.”
“我要当时尚摄影师了！”他在2009年接受采访时说，“他们说，当时的我就像泥巴一样沉默寡言。我没钱、没工作，什么也没有。那段时间我父亲的一些朋友给我找了几份工作，在当时拍摄的几部电影里当勤杂工。”
The experience paid off. At the start of the Korean War, Mr. Willis joined the Air Force, which assigned him to a documentary motion picture unit. On his discharge he got into the cinematographers union in New York and began working as an assistant cameraman.
这段经历有了回报。朝鲜战争开始之际，威利斯加入了空军，军方把他分派到一个记录片摄制小组。退役后，他加入了纽约的一个电影摄影师协会，开始担任助理摄影师。
After working in television and doing television commercials, he got his first chance to shoot a feature film when the maverick director Aram Avakian asked him to direct photography for “End of the Road” (1970), a black comedy, with Stacy Keach, adapted from a John Barth novel and set on a “farm” for the mentally ill. The film found an art-house following in later years. Among his other early films was “The Landlord,” the feature debut of Hal Ashby.
他一开始在电视台工作，拍摄电视广告。后来标新立异的导演阿拉姆·阿瓦基安(End of the Road)邀请他拍摄《穷途末路》(End of the Road, 1970)，这是一部黑色喜剧，由斯塔西·基齐(Stacy Keach)主演，改编自约翰·巴斯(John Barth)的小说，发生在一个为精神病人设立的“农场”里，威利斯由此得到了第一个拍摄完整长度电影的机会。该片后来在艺术电影圈内获得了一些拥趸。威利斯早期的电影还包括《地主》(The Landlord)，这是导演哈尔·阿什比(Hal Ashby)的处女长片。