This couldn’t possibly be a good idea. On Friday the 13th of September, in an old brick building on 13th Street in Boston’s Charlestown neighborhood, a pair of electrodes was attached to my forehead, one over my brain’s left prefrontal cortex, the other just above my right eye socket. I was about to undergo transcranial direct-current stimulation, or tDCS, an experimental technique for delivering extremely low dose electrical stimulation to the brain. Using less than 1 percent of the electrical energy necessary for electroconvulsive therapy, powered by an ordinary nine-volt battery, tDCS has been shown in hundreds of studies to enhance an astonishing, seemingly implausible variety of intellectual, emotional and movement-related brain functions. And its side effects appear limited to a mild tingling at the site of the electrode, sometimes a slight reddening of the skin, very rarely a headache and certainly no seizures or memory loss. Still, I felt more than a bit apprehensive as I prepared to find out if a little bit of juice could amp up my cognitive reserves and make me, in a word, smarter.
这大概不是什么好主意：9月13日星期五，我在波士顿查尔斯镇13街的一座旧石楼里，前额贴着一对电极——一个对应大脑左前额皮质，另一个紧挨右眼眶上部。接下来，我将经历一次颅直流电刺激（transcranial direct-current stimulation，简称tDCS）。这是一种用极低电流刺激大脑的实验技术，所用电力还不足电休克疗法的1%，由普通9伏电池供电。至今已有上百个实验证明，tDCS能成功刺激非常多——多得不可思议的与思维、情绪、动作相关的脑功能；而副作用似乎只限于贴电极的地方会感到轻微刺痛，局部皮肤可能变红；极少出现头痛，且绝没有抽搐或损害记忆的现象。不过，当我了解到喝点儿果汁也能激发认知储备、把我变“聪明”的时候，我对tDCS的疑虑又多了一分。
With the electrodes in place, J. León Morales-Quezada, senior research associate at Harvard’s Laboratory of Neuromodulation, pressed a button on his computer and I felt . . . absolutely nothing. No pain. No tingling. Not even a little muscle twitching.
在我脑袋上贴好电极后，哈佛神经调节实验室(Harvard’s Laboratory of Neuromodulation)的高级研究员J·莱昂·莫拉莱斯-克萨达(J. León Morales-Quezada)在电脑上点了某个钮，然后我……什么也没感觉到。不疼、不麻、连肌肉小抽一下都没有。
“Is it on?” I asked.
“开始了吗？”我问。
Morales-Quezada assured me it was. For proof, he pointed to a flat-screen on the wall, displaying signals from six electroencephalogram (EEG) monitors also attached to my head.
莫拉莱斯-克萨达向我确认已经开始了，还指了指墙上的纯平显示器作为证明。屏幕上显示着从6个贴在我头上的脑电波监视器(EEG)传出的信号。
After 10 minutes of charging my brain, he turned on a computerized exercise I was supposed to practice while the current continued flowing. Called an attention-switching task, it’s used by psychologists as a measure of “executive function” or “cognitive control”: the ability to overrule your urges, to ignore distractions and to quickly shift your focus. Young adults generally do better than older people; people with greater overall cognitive abilities generally perform better than those with less.
为我的大脑充了10分钟电后，他打开一个电脑测试，让我在电流继续通过时完成。这个测试叫“注意力转换测验”，心理学家用它来测量人的“执行功能”或“认知控制”，也就是遏制冲动、无视干扰、迅速切换关注焦点的能力。年轻人通常比老年人做得好，整体认知能力高的人比能力弱的人做得好。
Scientific papers published in leading peer-reviewed journals since 2005 have shown that tDCS can improve the speed or accuracy with which people perform this attention-switching task. Other studies have found it can improve everything from working memory to long-term memory, math calculations, reading ability, solving difficult problems, piano playing, complex verbal thought, planning, visual memory, the ability to categorize, the capacity for insight, post-stroke paralysis and aphasia, chronic pain and even depression. Effects have been shown to last for weeks or months.
自2005年起，顶尖同行评审杂志刊登的科学论文证明：tDCS能够提高人进行注意力转换测试时的速度和准确度。另有一些研究发现，tDCS可以改善一切——从工作记忆到长期记忆、数学计算、阅读、解决难题、钢琴弹奏、复杂语言思维、制定计划、视觉记忆、分类、洞察力、中风后的瘫痪和失语症康复、慢性疼痛、甚至抑郁。效果可持续数周至数月。
For my attention-switching task, Morales-Quezada explained that if I saw a plus sign on the computer screen, I had to decide whether the number of letters shown immediately after was odd or even, and then press either the “A” key with my left hand, or the “L” key with my right. But if I saw a triangle, he said, I had to decide whether the letters (all of them the same) were vowels or consonants, again by pressing either the “A” or “L” key.
莫拉莱斯-克萨达向我介绍了即将要做的注意力转换测试：当屏幕上出现加号时，我需要判断接下来出现的字母是奇数个还是偶数个，相应地再用左手点击A键或右手点击L键；如果出现的是三角形，我则需判断后面的字母（所有字母都一样）是元音还是辅音，然后左手点A或右手点L。
Because I had only a few seconds to respond each time, and because the rule switched back and forth between odd-or-even and vowel-or-consonant, I found my fingers sometimes pressed the wrong key with a seemingly involuntary twitch, even when my conscious mind knew the correct response. It was the same maddening experience many of us have when fooling with our smartphones: meaning to press the camera icon, say, but hitting the calendar instead.
由于每次只有几秒钟反应时间，且题目不停地在“奇数偶数”和“元音辅音”之前调换，我发现自己的手指有时显然是由于不自主的痉挛而按错键，即便我意识中的答案是正确的。这就好比我们许多人都有过的抓狂经历一样：本想点智能手机上的照相机图标，结果打开了日历。
After 20 minutes of stimulation, Morales-Quezada checked my results: I gave 53 correct responses, seven wrong ones, and had an average reaction time of 3.1 seconds. Over five days, I would be stimulated with tDCS for eight 20-minute sessions. If my experience matched those of participants in his studies, I was supposed to either make fewer mistakes, or get faster, significantly more so than if I were not getting stimulated.
经过20分钟电刺激，莫拉莱斯-克萨达检查了我的测试结果：53个正确，7个错误，平均每题耗时3.1秒。接下来的5天内，我将接受8次20分钟的tDCS充电。如果在我身上产生的效果与他研究过的其他实验对象一致，我应当在测试中出错更少、或答得更快——比不接受电刺激要强得多。
The first modern experiments with tDCS came in fits and starts. In 1981, Niels Birbaumer, a neuroscientist at the University of Tübingen, Germany, reported that by applying extremely low doses of direct-current electricity — one-third of a milliamp, not enough to power a hearing aid — to the heads of healthy volunteers, he could speed their response on a simple test of reaction time. The Italian neurophysiologist Alberto Priori began his own experiments in 1992, applying just a tiny bit more electricity, about half a milliamp. He found that enough of the electricity crossed through volunteers’ skulls — electrons flowing from the cathodal electrode to the anodal electrode — to cause brain cells near the anodal to become excited. Despite repeating the experiment multiple times to be sure of the results, it took Priori six years to get his findings published in a scientific journal, in 1998. As he told me, “People kept telling me it can’t be true, it’s too easy and simple.”
当代早期的tDCS实验进行得断断续续。1981年，德国蒂宾根大学(University of Tübingen)神经学家尼尔斯·比尔鲍默(Niels Birbaumer)曾描述过：若给健康志愿者的头部通以极低量的直流电——三分之一毫安（不足以维持助听器）——志愿者在简单测试中的反应会加快。意大利神经生理学家阿尔贝托·皮里奥利(Alberto Priori)从1992年也开始tDCS实验，他所用的电量高一点点：0.5毫安。皮里奥利发现，当足够电力，也就是足够电子，从阴极穿过志愿者的头骨到达阳极时，阳极附近的脑细胞会被激活。尽管他多次重复实验并确认结果，但他仍花了6年时间才把研究结果发表在科学杂志上，那时是1998年。他告诉我：“人们总是跟我说这不可能是真的，因为太轻而易举了。”
One of the first researchers to take Priori’s results seriously was Michael A. Nitsche, a clinical neurophysiologist at the University of Göttingen in Germany. “There were two lines of criticism that I heard in those days,” Nitsche said. “One line was that it couldn’t work, because it’s a very weak stimulation and it couldn’t get through the cranium. The other was that it should be very dangerous.”
德国哥廷根大学(University of Göttingen)神经生理学家迈克尔·A·尼切(Michael A. Nitsche)是第一批认真对待皮里奥利研究结果的人之一。“当时有两种批评意见，”尼切说：“一种说这不可能发生，因为电刺激太弱，都无法穿过颅骨；另一种则认为实验非常危险。”
In a paper published in 2000, Nitsche showed that the stimulating influence of tDCS lasts for at least five minutes after the electricity stops flowing. In 2003, he reported that the treatment could affect how well a volunteer learns a simple finger movement. Nitsche has followed up with dozens of papers on tDCS.
在2000年发表的论文里，尼切指出，tDCS的作用可在电流停止后至少再延续5分钟。2003年，他报告说tDCS刺激能影响志愿者学习简单手指运动的效果。之后，尼切还发表了几十篇后续论文。
“I was very skeptical, but Michael Nitsche converted me,” said Leonardo G. Cohen, chief of the neurorehabilitation section at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (N.I.N.D.S.) in Bethesda, Md. “It was very difficult for me to accept that simply connecting a battery that you can buy in CVS to electrodes placed on the scalp could change behavior. Then one day I said, I’m going to give it a try.”
“我曾经抱着高度怀疑的态度，但迈克尔·尼切说服了我，” 贝塞斯达国家精神障碍及中风研究所（National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke，简称NINDS）神经康复部主管莱昂纳多·G·科恩(Leonardo G. Cohen)说：“把电极贴在头皮上，然后用超市买来的电池供电，就能改变人的行为——我实在不敢相信。但后来有一天我决定，我要试一试。”
Cohen and his collaborators enlisted six people who had been partly paralyzed on one side of their bodies for at least one year following a stroke. They found that a single session of tDCS lasting 20 minutes and delivering 1 milliamp to the motor cortex of their brains significantly improved their performance on a standard test of hand dexterity. To be sure it wasn’t a placebo effect, they had the participants come in for two sessions, but half were sham treatments in which the electricity came on for only half a minute and then quickly faded off. (Even during active treatment, the feeling of mild tingling that many people experience at the beginning quickly becomes imperceptible, as if the electricity had been switched off.) Although neither the participants nor the experimenters knew whether the treatments were active or sham, the improvement occurred only following the active tDCS. And the benefit was apparent 10 days later.
科恩与合作者请来了6名因中风而一侧身体至少瘫痪一年的志愿者。他们发现，将1毫安电流通向大脑运动皮质区20分钟就足以极大地增强志愿者在手灵活度标准测试中的表现。为确定这不是安慰剂效应，他们让受试者参与两次tDCS，其中一次是假实验——电流仅通半分钟就停止了（即使是真实验，许多人在一开始感受到的轻微刺痛也会很快变得不明显，就像电流被关掉了一样）。志愿者和测试者谁也不知道哪次测验是真的，而手灵活度提升的情况仅在真tDCS后出现，并且效果在10天后都很显著。
“The improvements were in the range of only 5 to 10 percent, but an improvement like that after only one application was really very exciting,” Cohen said.
“只有5%到10%的提高，但一次tDCS就能达到这样的效果确实很振奋人心，”科恩说。
Larger, more rigorous studies are now under way to determine the purposes for which tDCS is best suited and the regimen that is most effective — precisely how much electricity, for how long, during how many days, aimed at which brain region — with the hope of eventually winning the approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
现在，为确定tDCS的最佳作用对象以及最有效方法——多大电流、多长时间、持续几天、针对大脑哪块区域，更严格、更大规模的研究正在进行当中。研究者希望最终能够获得美国食品与药品管理局（U.S. Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）的许可。
“tDCS will not make you superhuman, but it may allow you to work at your maximum capacity,” said Felipe Fregni, the Brazilian physician and neurophysiologist who runs Harvard’s Laboratory of Neuromodulation at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, where I was being treated. “It helps you achieve your personal best level of functioning. Let’s say you didn’t sleep well the night before. Or perhaps you’re depressed, or you suffered a stroke. It helps your brain reach its peak performance.”
“tDCS不会把你变成超人，但它能让你以最高能力工作，”巴西医生兼神经生理学家费利佩·弗雷尼(Felipe Fregni)说。我接受tDCS时，弗雷尼是位于斯波尔丁康复医院(Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital)的哈佛神经调节实验室的负责人。他说：“tDCS可帮助你发挥出个人最佳水平。比方说你昨晚没睡好，或者抑郁，或者中风了。它协助你的大脑达到巅峰状态。”
Fregni and his collaborators at Harvard have published more than 200 papers on tDCS. In 2005, he co-wrote a paper showing that stimulating the left prefrontal cortex while you are doing a particular task can enhance working memory, the ability to track and mentally manipulate multiple objects of attention. He has since tested its effects on migraine, chronic pain, post-stroke paralysis, Parkinson’s disease, depression, tinnitus, fibromyalgia, marijuana craving and, strangely enough, the tendency to lie (or, as the paper more delicately put it, “the modulation of untruthful responses”).
弗雷尼和同在哈佛的合作者发表过200多篇关于tDCS的论文。2005年，他合作的一篇文章指出，当人在执行特殊任务时，刺激左前额皮质能提高他们的工作记忆，即追踪、在头脑中操作多种关注对象的能力。他后来还测试过tDCS对偏头痛、慢性疼痛、中风后瘫痪、帕金森病、抑郁、耳鸣、纤维肌痛、大麻成瘾，以及——听起来奇怪——说谎冲动（或按论文所用的委婉描述：对不真实回应的调控）的影响。
The evidence, he said, is strongest for depression. Earlier this year he published a study in JAMA Psychiatry involving 120 people suffering from major depression. They received either 2 milligrams per day of the antidepressant Zoloft, 2 milliamps of tDCS, both or a placebo. After six weeks, the mood of those treated with either Zoloft or tDCS alone improved about equally well compared with those in the placebo group. “By itself, tDCS was exactly the same as Zoloft at relieving depression. But when you combine the two, you have a synergistic effect, larger than either alone. That’s how I see the effects of tDCS, enhancing something else.”
弗雷尼说，tDCS对抑郁症产生的效果最强。今年年初，他在《美国医学会杂志-精神病学》(JAMA Psychiatry)上发表了一篇论文。研究对象为120名严重抑郁的病人。他们每人每天或服用2毫克抗抑郁药左洛复(Zoloft)，或接受2毫安tDCS，或二者皆用，或服用安慰剂。6周之后，接受左洛复或tDCS治疗的病人比安慰剂组病人情绪改善程度差不多。“单看tDCS，它缓解抑郁的能力和左洛复完全一样。但如果观察左洛复和tDCS都用的病人，你会发现它们具有协同效应，比任何一种单独使用的效果都强。这就是我如何看待tDCS的：它能增强其他效应。”
One of the most striking examples of cognitive enhancement comes from research supported by the U.S. Air Force, showing that tDCS improves pilots’ vigilance and target detection. “The military has been looking at how to improve vigilance for the past 50 or 60 years,” said Andy McKinley, a civilian biomedical engineer who has been studying tDCS at the Air Force Research Laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio. “At minimum we get a twofold improvement in how long a person can maintain performance. We’ve never seen that with anything else.”
最能显示tDCS提高认知能力的是美国空军赞助的一项研究：飞行员的警觉度和目标探测能力因tDCS而提高。“在过去这五六十年来，军队一直在探寻增强士兵警觉度的办法，”在赖特·帕特森空军基地(Wright-Patterson Air Force Base)空军研究实验室(Air Force Research Laboratory)进行tDCS实验的平民生物医学工程师安迪·麦金利(Andy McKinley)说：“tDCS至少能将一个人维持良好表现的时间延长2倍。我们从未见过其他任何一种方法能做到这点。”
But how can a minuscule amount of electricity, applied to the skull for 20 minutes or so, like jumper cables for the brain, make people think better?
然而，为什么如此小的电量，跨头骨刺激20分钟，就能像大脑的跨接电缆一样，让人更好地思维呢？
I posed that question to Roy Hoshi Hamilton, director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Laboratory for Cognition and Neural Stimulation, who has done studies on the effects of tDCS on aphasia, mental flexibility and reading ability. He leaned back in his chair and smiled.
我就此问题请教了宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)认知与精神刺激实验室(Laboratory for Cognition and Neural Stimulation)主管罗伊·霍西·汉密尔顿(Roy Hoshi Hamilton)。他曾研究过tDCS在失语症、思维灵活性与阅读能力方面的作用。罗伊靠在椅子上，微笑起来。
“What is a thought?” he asked. “A thought is what happens when some pattern of firing of neurons has happened in your brain. So if you have a technology that makes it ever so slightly easier for lots and lots of these neurons, these fundamental building blocks of cognition, to be active, to do their thing, then it doesn’t seem so far-fetched that such a technology, be it ever so humble, would have an effect on cognition.” He went on to explain how the effect could endure. “There’s this mantra in neuroscience, coined by Donald Hebb: Neurons that fire together wire together. So I have this tool that makes it more or less likely your neurons will fire. Now, while I’m applying the current, I’m going to have you engage in some behavior, a working-memory task, say, or attempting to name objects even though you have aphasia following a stroke, which is my area of interest. So now that network of neurons is being activated in an environment that slightly nudges it, makes it slightly easier for the neurons to fire and the behaviors to be successfully carried out. Then it’s not too far-fetched that, when that happens over and over again, during weeks of practice, those pathways will be reinforced. I agree it does seem very simple. It’s not like we’re inserting some super-high-tech nanorobots into your brain to clear up cerebral blood vessels. But it is in accord with our thinking about how brains work. And it does appear to have a wide range of effects.”
“思维是什么？”他说，“思维就是你大脑里的神经元以某种模式‘开火’。所以如果你能用一种技术让很多很多这类神经元——这些认知的基本组成结构——更容易地活跃起来、做它们该做的事，这么看来这种技术就不是太牵强了。尽管它如此简易，可它确实能作用于认知。”他继续解释为什么tDSC的效果会持续：“神经科学里有句源自唐纳德·赫布(Donald Hebb)的口头禅：‘一起开火的神经元是绑在一起的’。我们有办法让神经元开火得更容易或更困难。现在，我启动电流，同时让你做某种动作，比如工作记忆测试，或在你有中风后失语症的情况下让你说出一个东西的名字——这是我的研究兴趣所在。神经元网络在某种具有轻推作用的环境下被激活，这种环境让神经元更容易地开火，于是相应行为被成功实施。经过几周的练习，这种情况一遍又一遍地发生，通路就被强化了，（效应持续）就不是那么难理解了。我同意这看起来很简单。虽然不像我们把什么超高科技的纳米机器人植入你的大脑，把脑血管清理干净，但这与我们对大脑工作方式的理解一致，而且看似的确有广泛效果。”
But with some scientists still skeptical, funding from N.I.N.D.S. has not been generous. Daofen Chen, an official at the institute who oversees grants to outside investigators, says: “The question is the scientific premise, the mechanism. They do see some improvement in certain physiological measures. But they are still not able to pinpoint the neurobiological mechanism underlying the recovery. They cannot explain why or exactly how it works for some conditions but not for others.” This lack of basic electrophysiological research, Chen explains, is a reason for his institute’s modest funding support so far. “The success rate for getting tDCS proposals funded by N.I.H. is less than half the average,” Chen says. “That means the peer reviewers” — who make funding recommendations — “are not impressed with the proposals they’re seeing in this area.”
可是，有些科学家还是对此存有疑虑，NINDS的资助也因此始终不是很慷慨。NINDS负责监管机构外研究者资金的官员陈道奋(Daofen Chen)说：“关键是tDCS的科学前提——机理。某些生理测量确实显示它有一定效果。但他们一直没有精确找准潜在的神经生物学机制。他们无法解释tDCS为什么、到底如何在某些情况下会生效、而某些情况下不生效。”陈道奋解释说，缺乏基本的电生理学研究，这是至今NINDS只提供少量资金的原因。“tDCS提案在争取NIH（国家卫生研究所）基金方面的成功率只有平均水平的一半，”陈道奋说，“这说明提供资助推荐的同行评审人对该领域的申请不是很看好。”
Or it may mean, in the view of some tDCS researchers, that many scientists simply refuse to believe that a relatively simple, inexpensive technology can work.
或者这说明——在一部分tDCS研究者眼中——许多科学家就是不相信一种相对简单便宜的技术能起作用。
“People have come to believe that only complex, expensive medical treatments will be effective,” says Vincent Clark, director of the Psychology Clinical Neuroscience Center at the University of New Mexico. The low cost of the technology may seem like an asset, but Clark says it could turn out to be one of the biggest problems in today’s medical marketplace.
“人们现在认为只有复杂昂贵的医疗手段才会有效，”新墨西哥大学(University of New Mexico)心理学与临床神经学中心(Psychology Clinical Neuroscience Center)主管文森特·克拉克(Vincent Clark)说。他指出，低成本技术看似是有价值的，但这也可能成为当今医疗市场的最大问题之一。
“Studies are expensive,” he says. “There may not be enough money to be made for tDCS manufacturers to be willing to fund the studies required to get it approved by the F.D.A.”
“研究很耗钱，”他说：“可能没什么赚头，所以tDCS制造商不愿意出钱赞助FDA要求的研究。”
But commercial interest is growing, according to Fregni, who is collaborating with a Boston firm on developing a tDCS device that uses ultrasound to target the electrical stimulation deeper into the brain, as a potential treatment for Parkinson’s disease. Other firms are developing special electrodes to narrow and limit the current’s flow, or to automatically modulate it with EEG monitoring.
不过弗雷尼认为，商业利益在增长。他目前正和波士顿一家公司联合开发tDCS设备：用超声波将电刺激送入大脑更深处，这种方法也许能治疗帕金森病。其他公司正在开发特殊电极，将电流变细、变局域化，或根据脑电波监视器自动调节tDCS。
“If you had asked me two years ago whether F.D.A. approval for tDCS would ever come, I might have said it would never happen,” he told me. “Now companies understand they can add value and get a patent. So now I believe it’s feasible.”
“如果你两年前问我FDA会不会批准tDCS的使用，我大概会回答：永远不可能。”他告诉我：“如今，一些公司意识到可以通过给tDCS添砖加瓦而获得专利。所以我现在也觉得可行了。”
The chief safety concern of researchers like Fregni is that tDCS is so inexpensive and easy to apply that people will begin treating themselves with homemade devices. In fact, some people have begun to do exactly that: Videos can be found on YouTube showing young men experimenting on their own brains, looking more foolhardy than the cast of “Jackass.” What they fail to realize is that applying too much current, for too long, or to the wrong spot on the skull, could be extremely dangerous.
弗雷尼和其他一些研究者最关心的安全问题是：既然tDCS这么便宜，这么容易操作，人们可能会用自己做的工具进行自我治疗。实际上，已经有人这么干了。YouTube上可以找到视频：年轻人用自己的脑袋做实验，看起来比《蠢蛋搞怪秀》(Jackass)里的人还蠢。他们不知道，如果用了过大电流，通电时间过长，把电极安在头颅的错误位置上，结果是很危险的。
During my eighth tDCS session, on my fifth and final day with Morales-Quezada, my reaction times on the attention-switching task felt considerably faster, and I was now able to consciously override my twitchy fingers’ occasional urge to press the wrong key. After looking over the results, Morales-Quezada confirmed my observations. “You made seven errors the first time we tested you,” he reminded me, “but during these last four sessions, you made no errors at all. And your reaction time also decreased, from 3.1 seconds to 2.6 seconds today. That’s half a second faster, which is extremely good.”
我第8次接受tDCS，也是我与莫拉莱斯-克萨达共处的第5天和最后一天，我感觉自己做注意力转换测试的速度明显加快，而且我能有意识地控制偶尔抽动的手指碰错键的冲动。检验结果后，莫拉莱斯-克萨达确认了我的感觉。“你第一次测试错了7个，”他提醒道：“但最后4次测试你一题都没错。反应时间也缩短了，以前3.1秒，今天2.6秒。少用了半秒，非常棒。”
Of course, everyone improves with practice, so whether I would have improved just as much if I had never been treated with tDCS is impossible to know. But since hundreds of published studies have shown that the effects of the treatment are real and not the result of a placebo, it’s likely that at least some of my improvement was due to the added effects of the electricity. The benefits are not magical; they still require effort. It’s just that tDCS appears to help that effort pay off faster and stronger. Strange? Very. But if the science continues to show that a little zap can safely boost our brainpower, surely some people will find it hard to resist.
当然，每个人经过练习也能进步，所以如果我不经历tDCS，是否也能在测试中有所提高，这不得而知。但既然上百篇论文都证明tDCS的作用客观存在，而非安慰剂效应，那么很有可能我的进步至少部分归功于电流刺激。tDCS并不能凭空施展魔法，它还是需要你的努力。它只是让你的付出更快更强地获得回报。不可思议？非常。但如果科学研究持续证明一点点刺激就能安全激活我们的脑力，显然人们会对这种诱惑难以抗拒。