MANITOWOC, Wis. —— In the tourism office here, where workers are accustomed to cheery inquiries about Manitowoc County’s best jogging paths and beach views, the questions have suddenly turned dark: How could you possibly promote tourism in such a corrupt town? Why would anyone visit here?
威斯康星州马尼托瓦克县——这里旅游局的工作人员早已习惯了各种兴致勃勃的查询：哪里是马尼托瓦克最好的慢跑小路？哪里又是最美的沙滩？但是近来这些询问却忽然变成了令人压抑的质问：如此腐败的一个小镇，你们怎么还可能想吸引游客来旅游？怎么会有人想到这里来游玩？
Fury — by telephone, email and on social media — has also flooded the Manitowoc County Sheriff’s Department, the Manitowoc City Police Department, Manitowoc City Hall and pretty much anywhere else with the name Manitowoc attached to it.
马尼托瓦克县警局、马尼托瓦克市警察局、马尼托瓦克市政厅，以及所有带有马尼托瓦克这个字样的部门，都被愤怒的电话、电子邮件和社交媒体评论所淹没。
Even the Manitowoc County Historical Society’s executive director, Amy Meyer, has taken to answering the phones so that volunteers — better prepared for gentler inquiries about the region’s history of shipbuilding and its claims to creating the ice cream sundae — do not have to hear “all that yelling, cussing and swearing.” A recent post on the historical society’s Facebook page read, “Too bad your history includes ruining two innocent peoples’ lives.”
马尼托瓦克县历史协会的志愿者们本来准备好回答的，是该地区的造船史，或者圣代冰淇凌究竟是否是他们发明的这一类问题。为了不让他们听到所有那些“叫嚷、咒骂和脏话”，历史协会执行董事艾米·迈耶(Amy Meyer)只好亲自上阵接听电话。最近，在历史协会的Facebook网页上甚至贴出了这样一个帖子，说：“你们的历史糟透了，你们毁掉了两个无辜之人的生活。”
The release last month of a Netflix documentary series, “Making a Murderer,” about a decade-old murder case, has upended this county of about 80,000 along Lake Michigan.
上个月，Netflix播放了一个系列纪录片《制造谋杀犯》(Making a Murderer)，讲述了一个10年前的谋杀案。它彻底搅乱了这个密西根湖边县城里8万人的生活。
Ten years ago, when I first came here, Steven Avery, the county resident now at the center of 10 Netflix episodes over more than 10 hours, had been arrested on suspicion of murder a few days before.
这个10集纪录片总长达10个多小时。主人公是本县居民史蒂芬·艾佛里(Steven Avery)。10年前，我第一次来到这里时，艾佛里先生刚在几天之前因为涉嫌谋杀被逮捕。
Mr. Avery’s past was what drew me to Manitowoc in November 2005: For months, he had been held up in Wisconsin as a symbol of everything wrong with the justice system, having served 18 years in prison for a sexual assault that DNA evidence later linked to a different man.
那是2005年11月，我正是为了艾佛里先生的事而来。他曾经因为一桩性侵案蹲了18年的监狱，但是新的DNA证据表明案犯另有其人。那几个月里，在威斯康星州他简直成了司法系统所有过失的代名词。
After Mr. Avery was released in the sexual assault, and as he was pursuing a $36 million lawsuit against the county officials who had wrongly sent him to prison, he was charged in the murder of Teresa Halbach, a 25-year-old photographer who had come to take pictures at his family’s auto salvage yard for Auto Trader magazine.
艾佛里先生从性侵案获释之后，开始追诉县政府官员误判的责任，提出了3600万美元的补偿要求。恰当此时，25岁的摄影师特雷莎·海尔巴赫(Teresa Halbach)来到他的废车场为汽车贸易杂志《Auto Trader》拍照，却被人杀害。艾佛里先生因此再次以谋杀罪遭到起诉。
Back then, as I drove to the county seat and along the stark, rural stretches closer to the salvage yard, I found a close-knit community in mourning over a young woman’s death and an array of Avery supporters stunned by the turn of events.
那时，我沿着废车场附近荒凉的乡间小路驱车前往县城，在那里等着我的是一个人际交往十分密切的社区。人们都沉浸在那个年轻女士之死的悲痛之中，而那些支持艾佛里先生的人则为事件的突然转折而大感震惊。
A pair of graduate student filmmakers in New York read the article I wrote and devoted the next decade to what became the Netflix series. In the end, Mr. Avery and his nephew Brendan Dassey, 16 at the time of Ms. Halbach’s death, were convicted in the killing — an outcome that some who watched the series were convinced was one more example of the justice system’s failure.
两个在纽约学习摄影的研究生看到了我的报道之后，花了10年的时间，制作了这个Netflix系列纪录片。艾佛里先生和他当时16岁的侄子布兰顿·达西(Brendan Dassey)，最终在这个谋杀案中被判定为有罪。对于一些看过这个Netflix纪录片的人来说，这个结局再一次证明了我们这个司法体系的失败。
Here, many of the people who had watched the case play out in real time with intensive local news media coverage largely considered it settled. But with a far broader audience now ravenously consuming the filmmakers’ take and raising pointed questions about whether those convicted were guilty, and whether the local authorities planted evidence and mishandled the investigation, a barrage of social media posts and calls is forcing Manitowoc to look back.
当时，当地媒体对这个案子作了详尽的报道，因此，许多居民亲历了此案从头至尾的过程。对他们来说，这个案子已经尘埃落定了。然而，电影人的视角引起了更为广泛的观众对此案的热切关注。他们提出了许多尖锐的问题：这些被定罪之人是否真的有罪？当地权威机构是否有制造假证或者调查处理不当之嫌？汹涌而来的社交媒体及电话评论迫使马尼托瓦克县重新审视这个案件。
“We lived through this 10 years ago,” Jason Ring, the president of the Manitowoc Area Visitor and Convention Bureau, said from a counter covered in maps and brochures.
“10年以前我们就亲身经历了这个案子。”马尼托瓦克地区旅游会展局局长杰森·林(Jason Ring)站在铺满地图和旅游手册的柜台之后说道。
“We made our judgment, and the trial came to an end, and locally most people were in support of that,” Mr. Ring said. “Now it’s back — by no choosing or no doing of anyone in this community.”
“我们已经做了判决，这案子已经结了。本地多数居民对案件结果也没有什么争议。”林先生说，“现在，由不得我们，这个案件却又重新被翻出来了。”
“So that’s the first point of injustice,” he added. “That we have to live through it again.”
“我们不得不再次经历一遍这件事情，”他接着说，“这就是头一点不公平的地方。”
In downtown Manitowoc, the county seat, the talkative, curious people I had come upon a decade earlier were no longer surprised — or the least bit pleased — to see yet another reporter. Many avoided any talk about “Making a Murderer,” or simply spotted my notebook and walked away. The mayor declined to be interviewed. Business owners refused to discuss it: One said she had read online about a call for a protest in the town, and she was worried about safety.
10年前，在马尼托瓦克市中心，县政府所在地，我遇到的人对我的出现都充满好奇，很愿意和我交谈。而今，我只不过是接踵而来的众多记者之一。人们对我的到来毫不惊奇，且大感不快。很多人根本不愿意谈论《制造谋杀犯》，更有甚者，有人一看到我的手提电脑就转身走开。市长谢绝了我的采访。商户们拒绝讨论这个话题。一个商人告诉我，她在网上看到有人提议在市中心举行示威抗议，她对自己的安全表示担忧。
“Look, we lived this whole thing like a juror,” Suszanne Fox, who lives not far from here, told me as she ate a burger at the Fat Seagull. “He was guilty as sin.”
“你看，我们几乎和陪审团成员一样，从头到尾经历了这个案子的审判。”住在附近的苏珊娜·福克斯(Suszanne Fox)在肥海鸥餐馆一边吃汉堡一边对我说， “他绝对是有罪的。”
Many viewers of “Making a Murderer” do not agree. Hundreds of thousands of people signed petitions asking President Obama to pardon Mr. Avery and Mr. Dassey, to which the White House has responded that the president cannot issue pardons in state cases. And Gov. Scott Walker has long pledged to issue no pardons while in office.
看过《制造谋杀犯》的许多观众却不会同意这个说法。成百上千的观众在给奥巴马总统申请赦免艾佛里先生和达西先生的请愿书上签了名。白宫回答说：因为这是州立案件而非联邦案件，总统无权赦免。而州长斯科特·瓦克尔(Scott Walker)则早已宣布，只要他在州长办公室一天，就不会签发赦免令。
The series left viewers with unrelenting questions: Did Mr. Avery’s civil lawsuit for his wrongful sexual assault conviction motivate the Manitowoc County authorities to plant evidence against him in the second case, for murder? How was it that an old sample of Mr. Avery’s blood, which was found in the victim’s car, appeared to be tampered with while in the care of the authorities? Should Mr. Dassey, at his young age and with a limited intellect, have been questioned alone by investigators? Was his appointed lawyer working against his cause?
这套系列片给观众留下了一些无法释怀的问题：艾佛里先生对马尼托瓦克县提出了性侵案错判的民事诉讼，这是否引起了县当局在之后的谋杀案中制造假证的动机？由检方保管的在受害人汽车中找到的艾佛里先生的血样，为什么似乎被人动了手脚？达西先生当年年幼并且智力有问题，在律师不在场的情况下，被调查方单独询问是否合理？官方指派给达西先生的律师，是否完全没有代表他的利益？
But Ken Kratz, who prosecuted the cases against Mr. Avery and Mr. Dassey, said the series was one-sided and omitted significant pieces of evidence, including DNA from Mr. Avery on the latch under the hood of Ms. Halbach’s Toyota RAV4, found in the Averys’ auto salvage yard.
这个案子的公诉人肯·克拉兹(Ken Kratz)认为，这个系列片是片面的，它漏掉了许多重要的证据，其中之一是哈尔巴赫女士的丰田RAV4车盖挂钩上的艾佛里先生的DNA。这个丰田车当时是在艾佛里废车场找到的。
“It’s not a documentary at all; it’s an advocacy piece,” Mr. Kratz said in a telephone interview from New York, where he said he was being put up at the Waldorf Astoria while taking part in television newsmagazine interviews in the wake of the Netflix series.
“这根本不是什么纪录片；它是一个宣传片。”克拉兹在一个电话访谈中这样说道。他说在这个Netflix系列片上映之后，他被安排在纽约华尔道夫酒店(Waldorf Astoria)，接受各种电视杂志的访谈。
Since the trial, Mr. Kratz went into private practice after a text messaging scandal in 2010 and a prescription drug addiction in which, he said, he “pretty much lost everything.” His business line now rings endlessly. “I guess it’s a concerted effort to shut down my office,” he said.
自那个案件以后，克拉兹先生于2010年卷入一场手机短信丑闻。后来，又因对处方药成瘾，用他自己的话说，他“几乎失去了一切”.他不再担任公职，而是开办了自己的私人事务所。现在，他的业务电话整天响个不停。他说：“看来他们是合起伙来想让我关张呀。”
Sheriff Robert C. Hermann of Manitowoc County, who was the undersheriff at the time of the Avery case, said his office had gotten emails and voice mail messages calling the department corrupt.
马尼托瓦克县警长罗伯特·C·赫尔曼(Robert C. Hermann)在艾佛里案时是副警长。他说他的办公室收到了一些电子邮件和电话留言，指责警局的腐败。
“It’s not how Manitowoc wants to be put on the map,” Sheriff Hermann said. He said he had few regrets, though he wished, given all he knows now, that only officials from a nearby sheriff’s office, without Manitowoc’s perceived conflicts, had held any role in the investigation.
“我不希望公众这样看待马尼托瓦克。”赫尔曼警长说。他认为他们并没有做错什么。尽管现在看来，当时这个案件如果全部交给在公众眼中没有利害关系的隔壁警局来调查就好了。
The filmmakers, Laura Ricciardi and Moira Demos, say they believe their series accurately portrayed the essential arguments the prosecutors made. The point, they said in a telephone interview, was to look at the Manitowoc cases as a window into the American justice system.
导演劳拉·里恰尔迪(Laura Ricciardi)和莫伊拉·德莫(Moira Demos)相信她们的片子准确传达了公诉方的基本论证。在电话访谈中她们表示，本片的目的是通过马尼托瓦克案件这个窗口来审视美国的司法系统。
“We have empathy for Manitowoc because we know that people have been reaching out in unkind ways and posting things about the city and the county,” Ms. Ricciardi said. “That’s an unfortunate response, because we have always wanted the series to be constructive, not destructive.”
“我们能体会马尼托瓦克人的心情，我们知道他们受到了一些不友好的对待，在网上也收到了一些对他们县市的攻击。” 里恰尔迪女士说，“这真是很遗憾，我们本意是希望这套系列片带来的反应是建设性的，而非破坏性的。”
Mr. Avery, now 53, and Mr. Dassey, now 26, have not seen the series, their lawyers said. Prisoners do not get Netflix. But as Mr. Dassey awaits a federal court decision on claims that his confession was coerced and that he had a right to a lawyer who would mount a defense, Netflix viewers have barraged him with letters of support, said his lawyer, Laura Nirider of the Center on Wrongful Convictions of Youth at Northwestern University.
据律师说，现年53岁的艾佛里先生和26岁的达西先生没有看过这套纪录片。监狱犯人是看不到Netflix的。达西先生提出了一项申述，声称他的自首是被逼迫的，他当时有权让律师在场。他目前正在等待联邦法院对这一申诉的判决。达西先生的律师劳拉·尼里德尔(Laura Nirider)说，他收到了大批来自Netflix观众的支持信件。尼里德尔目前在西北大学(Northwestern University)青年冤案中心工作(Center on Wrongful Convictions of Youth)。
“He is incredibly hopeful for the first time that when people hear the name Brendan Dassey, they don’t think of a murderer, they think of someone who has been wronged,” she said.
“他有生以来头一次充满了无限的希望，相信当人们听到布兰顿·达西这个名字时，想到的不再是一个谋杀犯，而是一个被冤枉的人。”她说。
And a new lawyer, Kathleen T. Zellner, well known for taking on wrongful conviction cases, has since signed on to handle Mr. Avery’s next legal step.
艾佛里先生也新请了一名律师凯瑟琳·T·泽尔纳(Kathleen T. Zellner)，来处理他的下一步法律事务。泽尔纳女士以处理冤案申诉而闻名。
At the auto salvage yard, along dead-end Avery Road, tiny, jittery dogs watch from a green trailer where Dolores Avery, Mr. Avery’s mother, says she is too tired for more interviews. Years ago, I sat with her, her husband and a brother in the living room here as they insisted that Mr. Avery was being railroaded for a second time.
在艾佛里路尽头的废车场里，一群小狗在绿色的拖车里不安地张望。艾佛里先生的母亲多洛雷斯·艾佛里(Dolores Avery)表示，她已经无力再做更多访谈了。多年前，我曾经和她、她的丈夫和一个兄弟一起坐在客厅里，那时他们坚称，艾佛里先生再次受到了不公平的审判。
Standing in her doorway this month, Ms. Avery, a constant presence in the series, said she hoped people now saw “the crooked things the county has done” to her family.
现在，在纪录片中多次出现的艾佛里女士站在自家门廊，表示她希望大家终于能看到这个县对她家人所做的“一切不公”。
But all the renewed talk, the calls for interviews from around the world? “I’m too old for this,” she said. “It’s too much.”
但是，对于旧话重提以及追逐而来的全球记者的采访要求，她又有什么感觉呢？她说：“我实在是太老了。受不了这些了。”
Recently, tourists have been spotted on the property, with its row after row of forgotten, snow-topped cars, stopping in front of the yellow and black Avery’s Auto Salvage & 24 Hour Towing sign to snap selfies.
近来，在她家地盘上时常能见到一些旅游者。他们在那些成排的、白雪覆盖的废弃汽车前流连，在黄黑相间的“艾佛里废车场，24小时拖车”的标志前驻足自拍。