During an exceptionally cringe-worthy Republican debate in March, Donald J. Trump raised his hands to show people that they weren’t abnormally small. While it is unclear whether this display settled the underlying matter, one thing was indisputable: He wasn’t wearing a wedding ring.
在今年3月举行的一场非常雷人的共和党辩论中，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)举起双手，向人们证明自己的手并非小到不正常的程度。尚不明确这种展示是否解决了其背后的问题，但有一点是毋庸置疑的：他没有戴婚戒。
He’s not alone. No band adorns the fourth finger of Prince William’s left hand, or that of Graydon Carter, or more recently, of Jay Z. And Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith have been spotted without rings, which has added to tabloid speculation about the state of their union.
像他这样的不在少数。威廉王子(Prince William)的左手无名指上就没有戒指，格雷顿·卡特(Graydon Carter)的也没有，更近人们发现Jay Z也不再佩戴婚戒。威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)和贾达·萍克特·史密斯(Jada Pinkett Smith)被人看到，两人都没有戴婚戒，使得小报记者更加怀疑他们目前的婚姻状况。
The question remains: Can a naked finger be just a naked finger?
问题在于：难道没有戒指的手指有什么不正常吗？
Mr. Trump, whose representatives declined to comment or to make him available for this article, has not explained why he no longer wears the band he wore when he and Melania Knauss were married in 2005. The public is undoubtedly aware of his marital status, so he’s not exactly putting anything over on anyone. He appeared to not wear a ring during his marriage to Ivana Trump, and only occasionally with Marla Maples as well.
对此，代表特朗普的人士拒绝置评或让他接受采访，他们也没有解释为何他不再佩戴2005年与梅拉尼亚·克瑙斯(Melania Knauss)结婚时戴着的戒指。公众无疑很清楚他的婚姻状态，所以他并不是在掩盖自己的已婚身份。在与伊万娜·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)结婚期间，他似乎就不戴婚戒。与玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)结婚后，似乎也只是偶尔佩戴。
As for Jay Z, he and Beyoncé, who was seen at the Met Gala sans her wedding ring, have matching tattoos on their ring fingers. Never mind that she just released an album largely about infidelity.
至于Jay Z。他和碧昂斯(Beyoncé)的左手无名指上刺有情侣纹身。碧昂斯被看到在Met Gala上没有佩戴婚戒。更不用说她最近还出了一张专辑，主题基本上就围绕着出轨展开。
Before Prince William married Kate Middleton in 2011, the palace issued a statement, noting that the couple had discussed it and that the prince’s decision not to wear a ring was “personal preference.” The statement continued, “He doesn’t even wear a signet ring — and decided he didn’t want to.”
2011年迎娶凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)前，英国皇室曾发布声明，表示这对夫妇此前讨论过此事，并指出王子决定不戴婚戒只是“个人喜好”。声明还表示，“他甚至都不戴签名戒，因此决定自己不戴婚戒。
Popular perception is that some men — and, yes, women too — go ringless in order to broadcast an availability that their spouses may know nothing about. And there are many who subscribe to the notion that affairs may be avoided if both sexes would simply adhere to this public signifier that they are “taken.” (Of course, this doesn’t account for those who are attracted by wedding rings precisely because they signal no possibility of a longer attachment.)
对此，比较普遍的看法是，有些男人——没错，有些女人也是如此——不戴婚戒是为了对外暗示他们可以发生别的恋情，这一点他们的配偶可能并不知道。有不少人秉持这种看法，即如果双方都坚持佩戴婚戒，对外表明他们“已经有人了”，就可以避免婚外情的发生。（当然，这不适用于恰巧因对方戴婚戒才被吸引的人，因为戴婚戒释放的信号是，不可能与你长久在一起。）
“I think they’re making a statement by not wearing one,” said Jeanne Safer, a psychotherapist in New York. “It may unconsciously signal availability for adultery, either actually or in fantasy.”
“我想他们不戴戒指是为了作出一种声明，”纽约的心理医生珍妮·塞弗(Jeanne Safer)说道。“可能是在无意识地表明，自己有通奸的可能性，有可能是真实的意图，也可能只是在幻想层面。”
Judi Winston Katz, 45, a real estate agent in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., agrees. She believes that ambivalence played a role in her decision not to wear a ring during her 20-year marriage. While her former husband, whom she loved as a “best friend,” wore his ring right up to the day they signed their divorce papers, she found hers a “nuisance” and removed it after their first year of matrimony. “I always wondered if it was subconsciously because I didn’t want to be married to him,” she wrote in an email.
今年45岁的朱迪·温斯顿·卡茨(Judi Winston Katz)是佛罗里达州劳德代尔堡的一名房地产经纪，她同意这种观点。她相信自己之所以20年不戴婚戒，其中就有一种矛盾心理在起作用。她对丈夫的爱就像是对“最好的朋友”的那种感情，后者在签署离婚协议之前一直戴着婚戒，但她觉得戴婚戒这件事“让她很烦”，在步入婚姻一年后就取掉了戒指。“我总是在心里想，是不是因为我在潜意识里意识到自己并不想嫁给他，”她在一封邮件中写道。
Just as customs about weddings have become less conventional, so, too, have rules about rings, both in the type of band or whether you wear one at all.
正如有关婚礼的习俗已经不太像过去那样被严格遵守，有关佩戴婚戒的习俗也是如此，不管是就戒指的类型，还是在你是否佩戴的问题上。
Many gay men have exchanged wedding bands, but it may be too soon to say that these rings are here to stay. Dominick Miciotta and Jason Smith of Huntington, N.Y., however, always wear the matching titanium bands they gave each other at their October 2013 wedding. “The ring is a part of marriage for both of us,” said Mr. Miciotta, 46. “We are both fairly traditional. We both feel the same way about commitment and love.”
有不少同性恋男子交换过结婚戒指，但说他们会一直戴着，可能言之过早。不过，纽约亨廷顿的多米尼克·米乔塔(Dominick Miciotta)和贾森·史密斯(Jason Smith)就一直戴着他们在2013年结婚时送给对方的钛金情侣戒。“对我们二人来说，戒指是婚姻的一部分，”46岁的米乔塔说。“我们都相当传统，对爱与承诺有着相同的看法。”
In England, the appearance of wedding rings for men is a relatively recent phenomenon. In his 1996 book, “Debrett’s New Guide to Etiquette & Modern Manners,” the etiquette expert John Morgan wrote that in Britain “it is customary for the bride alone to sport a wedding ring, and although some brides have adopted the Continental habit of presenting the groom with his own band during the vows, this remains not quite comme il faut.’”
在英格兰，男人佩戴婚戒是一种相对比较新的现象。礼仪专家约翰·摩根(John Morgan)在他1996年出版的著作《德布雷特礼节与现代礼仪新指南》(Debrett’s New Guide to Etiquette & Modern Manners)中写道，英国的“习惯是只有新娘佩戴婚戒，尽管现在有些新娘也采取欧洲大陆的习惯，在宣誓时给新郎戴戒指，但那依然是不太得体的。”
In the 16 years that Nick Sullivan, the English-born fashion director of Esquire, has been married, nothing has adorned any of his fingers. While he was “very happy” to get married, he didn’t feel the need for an extra symbol. “My wife doesn’t care,” he said.
结婚16年以来，出生于英国的《Esquire》时尚总监尼克·沙利文(Nick Sullivan)什么戒指也没戴过。尽管他对结婚感到“很高兴”，但他不觉得自己的婚姻需要额外的标识。“我妻子不在意这个，”他说。
Neither does Evin Lowe, whose husband, Robert Schwartz, won’t wear a ring. For him, though, it is more about trauma. During his first marriage, Mr. Schwartz, 47, who has a consulting business in New York, wore the conventional gold wedding band. After divorcing, he decided that “the ring represented a failed marriage” and flushed it down the toilet.
埃温·洛(Evin Lowe)也不在意。她的丈夫罗伯特·斯沃茨(Robert Schwartz)也不会戴婚戒。不过，对他来说，这与他过去经历的创伤关系更大。斯沃茨现年47岁，在第一次结婚时，他在美国经营咨询公司，戴着传统的结婚金戒。离婚后，他觉得“那枚戒指代表着一次失败的婚姻”，把它丢进马桶冲走了。
Before marrying Ms. Lowe, he expressed his reluctance to (literally) put a ring on it. She understood. “If I felt like I needed him to wear a ring all the time, I wouldn’t have married him,” said Ms. Lowe, 41, a lighting technician for film and television. “To me it’s a matter of trust.”
在和洛结婚前，他表示自己不想戴婚戒（没别的意思）。她表示理解。“如果我感觉自己需要他一直戴着婚戒才会安心，那我压根不会嫁给他，”41岁的洛说道，她是一名影视灯光师。“对我来说，这件事关乎信任。”
There are practical reasons for not wearing them. Haim Hazan, 40, the owner of a Manhattan hair salon, finds that rings get in the way of his work. “Everybody knows I’m married,” he said. “But it’s convenient not to wear one.”
也有一些实际的原因决定了人们不戴婚戒。40岁的海姆·哈赞(Haim Hazan)在曼哈顿经营一家美发沙龙，他发现戴戒指影响自己工作。“所有人都知道我结婚了，”他说。“但不戴戒指比较方便些。”
Craig Savel, 53, a developer of computer apps and programs in New York, said, “Rings never entered the equation.” He and his wife, Marion Stein, eloped to Niagara Falls without rings for either of them. “We’re two kind of aging hippies,” Mr. Savel said. “I think we’re also both afraid we are so ditsy we’ll lose it, with all the attendant symbolism.”
现年53岁的克雷格·萨韦尔(Craig Savel)在纽约从事计算机软件和程序开发，他说“戒指压根没有进入他们的考虑范围。”他和妻子玛丽昂·斯坦(Marion Stein)当时是一起私奔，跑到了尼亚加拉瀑布(Niagara Falls)，俩人都没有婚戒。“我们有点像两个老嬉皮士，”萨韦尔说。“我想我们也都害怕自己太粗心大意，会弄丢它，毕竟它有那么大的象征含义。”
The way Dr. Safer sees it, going ringless does tend to symbolize that there is something deeper going on — an inability to fully commit or a desire to be free. She and her husband, the historian and writer Richard Brookhiser, have been married for over 30 years and both wear rings.
在塞弗医生看来，不戴婚戒似乎的确代表着存在更深层次的问题——无法完全忠于对方，或者想获得自由。她和她的丈夫、历史学家兼作家理查德·布鲁克希泽(Richard Brookhiser)已经结婚30多年，两人都佩戴婚戒。
“It never occurred to me that we wouldn’t,” she said. In marriage, she believes, “you exchange your pathologies. You should exchange rings, too.”
“我从没想过我们会不戴婚戒，”她说。她相信，在婚姻里，“你们要向彼此展现不完美的一面。同样也应该交换戒指。”