TO the list of differences between men and women, we can add one more: the drug-dose gender gap. Doctors and researchers increasingly understand that there can be striking variations in the way men and women respond to drugs, many of which are tested almost exclusively on males. Early this year, for instance, the Food and Drug Administration announced that it was cutting in half the prescribed dose of Ambien for women, who remained drowsy for longer than men after taking the drug.
在两性的种种差异中，我们可以加上一条：药物剂量的性别差异。医生和研究人员越来越明白，男性与女性对药物的反应差异很大，而许多药物的受试者几乎全是男性。例如今年初，美国食品药品监督管理局(Food and Drug Administration)宣布将女性服用安必恩(Ambien)的剂量减半，因为女性服用该药后困倦时间比男性更长。
Women have hormonal cycles, smaller organs, higher body fat composition — all of which are thought to play a role in how drugs affect our bodies. We also have basic differences in gene expression, which can make differences in the way we metabolize drugs. For example, men metabolize caffeine more quickly, while women metabolize certain antibiotics and anxiety medications more quickly. In some cases, drugs work less effectively depending on sex; women are less responsive to anesthesia and ibuprofen for instance. In other cases, women are at more risk for adverse — even lethal — side effects.
与男性相比，女性有荷尔蒙周期，器官更小，身体脂肪比例更高——科学家认为这些因素都对药物在我们体内发挥作用产生影响。我们在基因表达方面也存在基本差异，进而导致了两性在药物代谢方面的差异。例如，男性代谢咖啡因较快，而女性对部分抗生素和抗焦虑药物的代谢速度较快。在某些情况下，药物对某一性别起效不佳；例如，女性对麻醉剂和布洛芬不够敏感。在其它情况下，女性面临更大的药物不良反应风险，甚至是致命的不良反应。
These differences are particularly important for the millions of women living with chronic pain. An estimated 25 percent of Americans experience chronic pain, and a disproportionate number of them are women. A review published in the Journal of Pain in 2009 found that women faced a substantially greater risk of developing pain conditions. They are twice as likely to have multiple sclerosis, two to three times more likely to develop rheumatoid arthritis and four times more likely to have chronic fatigue syndrome than men. As a whole, autoimmune diseases, which often include debilitating pain, strike women three times more frequently than men.
这些差异对数百万慢性疼痛的女性患者来说尤为重要。据估计，25%的美国人患有慢性疼痛，其中绝大多数为女性。《疼痛学刊》(the Journal of Pain)2009年发表的一篇综述发现，女性出现疼痛症状的风险比男性要高得多。她们患多发性硬化的几率是男性的两倍，患风湿性关节炎的几率比男性高两到三倍，患慢性疲劳综合症的几率比男性高四倍。总体上说，患上经常导致疼痛乏力的自体免疫疾病的女性比男性多三倍。
While hormonal, genetic and even environmental factors might influence the manifestation and progression of autoimmune diseases, we don’t yet know the reason for this high prevalence in women.
尽管荷尔蒙、遗传甚至环境诸因素都可能影响自身免疫疾病的表现和发展，这些疾病为何在女性中高发，我们尚不得而知。
Pain conditions are a particularly good example of the interplay between sex (our biological and chromosomal differences) and gender (the cultural roles and expectations attributed to a person). In 2011, the Institute of Medicine published a report on the public health impact of chronic pain, called “Relieving Pain in America.” It found that not only did women appear to suffer more from pain, but that women’s reports of pain were more likely to be dismissed.
疼痛是解释生理性别（我们的生物学和染色体差异）和社会性别（个人的文化角色和期望）交互作用的绝佳范例。美国国家医学院(Institute of Medicine)2011年发表了一份关于慢性疼痛对公众健康影响的报告，题为《纾解美国之痛》(Relieving Pain in America)。报告表明，女性不仅遭受了更多的疼痛之苦，而且她们对疼痛的主诉更易遭冷遇。
This is a serious problem, because pain is subjective and self-reported, and diagnosis and treatment depend on the assumption that the person reporting symptoms is beyond doubt.
这个问题很严重，因为疼痛是主观的，由患者自行表述，而其诊断和治疗基于这样一个假设，即主诉病情的人要靠谱。
The oft-cited study “The Girl Who Cried Pain: A Bias Against Women in the Treatment of Pain” found that women were less likely to receive aggressive treatment when diagnosed, and were more likely to have their pain characterized as “emotional,” “psychogenic” and therefore “not real.”
这篇题为《叫痛的女孩：疼痛治疗中对女性的偏见》(The Girl Who Cried Pain: A Bias Against Women in the Treatment of Pain)的高引用率论文发现，女性在确诊疼痛后得到积极治疗的几率偏低，她们的疼痛更容易被视为“情绪化”、“心因性”，因而“不可靠”。
Instead of appropriate care for physical pain, this can lead to treatment for mental health issues that might not even exist. The situation is further complicated by the fact that antidepressants are absorbed differently in women and vary in effectiveness, depending on hormonal cycles.
这种看法导致医生未能对患者的生理疼痛给予适当的治疗，反而对其精神健康状况进行治疗，但患者或许根本没有任何精神问题。由于女性对抗抑郁药的吸收效率不同于男性，疗效随着荷尔蒙周期而变化，因而情况变得愈发复杂。
The routine attribution of abdominal pain from conditions like appendicitis or gastrointestinal disease to gynecological problems can also delay or complicate the diagnostic process. A 2008 study published in the journal Academic Emergency Medicine, designed to gauge gender disparities among emergency room patients complaining of abdominal pain, found that even after adjusting for race, class and triage assessment, women were still 13 to 25 percent less likely than men to receive high-strength “opioid” pain medication. Those who did get opioid pain relievers waited an average of 16 minutes longer to receive them.
因阑尾炎或胃肠道疾病导致的腹痛被习惯性归为妇科问题，这也会延误诊断，或使诊断变得更加复杂。2008年发表在《理论急诊医学》(Academic Emergency Medicine)期刊发表的一篇研究论文旨在评测急诊病人主诉腹痛的性别差异。该研究表明，即便对种族、社会阶层和检伤评估进行调整后，女性得到强力“阿片类”止痛药物的几率依然比男性低13%到25%。与男性相比，那些最终得到了阿片类止痛药的女性等待开药的平均时间比男性长了16分钟。
Conditions like fibromyalgia or chronic fatigue syndrome, for which definitive causes have not been identified and concrete diagnostic tests are not available, illustrate the problems associated with the perceived reliability of the female patient as narrator of her pain. Women are more likely to receive diagnoses of many of these more nebulous conditions — fibromyalgia, which affects about six million patients in the United States, is nine times more likely to be diagnosed in women than in men — and this discrepancy surely contributes to the widespread skepticism that still exists over the legitimacy of these disorders.
部分疾病无法确定病因，也无法进行具体的诊断试验，仅靠女性患者口述疼痛状况，例如纤维性肌痛或慢性疲劳综合症等。要看医生如何看待此类病人主诉的可靠性，会带来哪些问题，这些疾病就是很好的例子。女人更容易被医生按照许多类似的模糊症状进行诊断。美国约有600万纤维性肌痛患者，女性被诊断出患有此病的几率比男性高九倍。这些疾病是否成立本身就存在广泛的质疑，而这一差异无疑令质疑进一步加深。
I AM a sufferer of pain and chronic disease. Like many, I’ve had physical symptoms (in my case, respiratory problems and infections) explained away as emotional. My freshman year in college, I was in the emergency room, flanked by machines and struggling to breathe while doctors lobbed questions at me: Why wasn’t I responding to the medication the way they expected I would? Was I just too anxious? Could I not handle stress, and was that making me sick?
我本人就患有疼痛和慢性疾病。和许多人一样，我的生理症状（我的病因是呼吸系统问题和感染）被医生解释为情绪化反应。读大一时，我躺在急诊室里，身旁都是仪器。我一边努力呼吸，一边听医生询问：为什么我用药后反应不如他们预期的那样？是不是我太焦虑了？是不是我无法应对压力？这是不是我的病因？
I was 23 before I was given a correct diagnosis of a rare genetic lung disease called primary ciliary dyskinesia. I’d been sick since birth, but long diagnostic journeys are occupational hazards of living with conditions doctors don’t often see. Still, my journey was unnecessarily protracted by my doctors’ dismissal of my symptoms as those of a neurotic young woman.
23岁那年，我的病情终于得到了确诊：“原发性纤毛运动障碍”，一种罕见的遗传性肺病。自出生后我就一直被病痛折磨，但漫长的诊疗源于医生的职业风险：他们经常无法发现我的症状。尽管如此，我的诊疗本来没必要拖延这么久，只因为在医生们眼中，我的症状只是一个神经兮兮的女孩子的胡思乱想。
For all the medical advances of the past few decades, we still know shockingly little about pain and how to control it. Sex-based research is a crucial part of understanding not just the underlying mechanisms of pain, but the most effective ways to treat it for men and women alike. The Institute of Medicine report found gaps in research, particularly in terms of effective treatments, as well as in the oversight of pain research. The report recommended that these problems be addressed and that strategies to resolve them be implemented by 2015.
尽管过去几十年来医学取得了很大进步，但令人震惊的是，我们依然对疼痛及其疗法几乎一无所知。基于性别的研究不仅仅是理解疼痛机理的关键所在，也是为男性和女性解除痛苦的最有效方法。美国国家医学院的这份报告发现研究中存在若干空白领域，尤其是有效治疗手段以及对疼痛研究的忽视。该报告建议解决以上问题，并在2015年前实施对策。
Among those improvements must be a renewed focus on discovering why women respond differently to some drugs and diseases, as well as an emphasis on training physicians to better diagnose and manage women’s pain. A report by the Campaign to End Chronic Pain in Women found that inadequate physician training in diagnosing and treating just six pain disorders that affect women either exclusively or predominantly, including fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome, added as much as $80 billion a year to America’s health care bills.
这些改进方案中，医生必须重新重视发现为什么女性对部分药物和疾病的反应与男性不同，并着重指导医生如何进一步做好女性疼痛的诊断和治疗。“结束女性慢性疼痛运动”的一份报告指出，单单是六大主要或专门在女性中发作的痛症，包括纤维性肌痛和慢性疲劳综合症，由于医生缺乏诊断和治疗的相关培训，每年就让全美在医疗方面多花了800亿美元。
Part of the reason the diagnosis and treatment of women’s pain lag so much is simply the pace of medical research itself, which is slow to move from publication to clinical practice. Unfortunately, if anything, changes in assumptions about gender evolve even more slowly.
女性疼痛的诊疗如此落后，部分原因是医学研究本身的问题，从论文发表走向临床应用的步伐太慢。不幸的是，除此之外，医生对患者性别观念的演进更加缓慢。