Most mornings at 4:30 a.m., half an hour before the “first call” awakens inmates at the Fort Leavenworth military prison in Kansas, an alarm rings within an 80-square-foot cell. Inmate 89289, slightly built with short hair, rises to apply makeup and don female undergarments and a brown uniform before the still-slumbering men in the adjacent cells stir.
大多数情况下，凌晨4点半，也就是堪萨斯州莱文沃斯堡军事监狱的犯人被“起床号”唤醒的半小时前，闹钟会在一间面积为80平方英尺的监室里响起。身材瘦小、留着短发的犯人89289号闻声而动，在临近监室仍在酣睡的男人们起床前给自己化妆，穿上女士内衣和一套棕色制服。
That is the routine for Chelsea Manning, America’s most famous convicted leaker and the prison’s most unusual inmate. She is serving the longest sentence ever imposed for disclosing government secrets — 35 years — and her status as a celebrity of sorts and an incarcerated transgender woman presents continuing difficultiesfor the military.
切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)——美国最著名的被定罪泄密者，以及这所监狱里最不同寻常的犯人——总是如此开启自己的每一天。正在服刑的她因泄露政府机密而被判处35年监禁——这是该罪名迄今为止招致的最长刑期；作为一个某种意义上的名人，以及一名身陷囹圄的跨性别女性，她的身份给军方的工作持续带来了困难。
During the day, Manning, who was an Army intelligence analyst known as Bradley Manning when she disclosed archives of secret military and diplomatic files to WikiLeaks in 2010, builds picture frames and furniture in the prison wood shop. In the evenings, before the 10:05 p.m. lockdown, she reads through streams of letters, including from anti-secrecy enthusiasts who view her as a whistleblower.
曼宁曾是一名陆军情报分析员，原名布拉德利·曼宁(Bradley Manning)，在2010年将一些秘密军事和外交文件泄露给了维基解密(WikiLeaks)。白天，曼宁在监狱的木工作坊内制作相框和家具。晚上，她会在10点5分监号锁门前阅读大量信件，其中一些信来自反保密积极分子，他们把曼宁视为揭秘者。
“I am always busy. I have a backlog of things to do: legal, administrative, press inquiries, and writing — lots of writing,” Manning wrote in response to questions submitted by The Times because the Army does not permit her to speak directly to journalists. “Being me is a full-time job.”
“我总是忙忙碌碌。很多事情都堆在那儿，等着我去做：要处理法律和行政方面的事务，还要应对媒体提问和写东西——要写的太多了，”曼宁以书面形式回复了时报提交的问题，因为陆军不允许她直接对记者发言。“做我自己就是一份全职工作。”
But Manning, who is struggling to transition to life as a woman while enduring a bleak existence at a male military prison, has asked President Barack Obama to commute the remainder of her sentence before he leaves office next week. She poses particular challenges as a prisoner, with a volunteer support network that helps bring global attention to her treatment, fragile mental state — she twice tried to commit suicide in 2016 — and need for treatment that the military has no experience providing.
但身处一所男子军事监狱的边缘地带、挣扎于转而以女性身份生活的挑战之中的曼宁，已经请求下周就要离开白宫的贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统，在卸任前下令减掉她剩余的刑期。作为一名犯人，曼宁带来了特别的挑战，得益于一个由志愿者构成的支持网络，她的待遇、脆弱的精神状态（她在2016年两度试图自杀）以及对军方以前从未提供过的待遇的需求，在全球范围内获得了关注。
Her request comes as the world is again focused on WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, whom her leaks made famous. The organization last year published Clinton campaign emails, obtained through hacking, as part of what U.S. intelligence officials claim was a covert Russian operation aimed at tilting the election to President-elect Donald Trump. (Manning declined to discuss WikiLeaks, saying only that her decision to send documents to it “was neither an endorsement nor an affiliation.”)
她提出这一请求之际，世人正重新聚焦于维基解密及其创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)——当初，正是她的泄密之举令后者声名鹊起。去年，维基解密发布了黑客窃取到的克林顿竞选团队的电子邮件，美国情报官员称，这是俄罗斯的一项旨在让大选天平倒向候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的秘密行动的组成部分。（曼宁拒绝讨论维基解密，只是说，她把文件发给该组织的决定“既不意味着对它的支持，也不意味着自己从属于它。”）
It also comes at a time of flux in the military’s policies on gender identity. Last June, the Obama administration rescinded a ban on transgender people serving in the military and began overhauling its practices, which eventually would include providing gender reassignment surgery. But Trump has derided the lifting of the ban as “politically correct,” raising the possibility that his administration may roll back the changes.
她提出这一请求之际，还恰逢军方的性别认同政策变化不定之时。去年6月，奥巴马政府取消了不允许跨性别人士在军中服役的禁令，并开始全面修正军队做法，最终纳入了可以提供性别重置手术的规定。但特朗普嘲笑说，取消该禁令是“政治正确”的做法，因此他的政府有可能让变革出现逆转。
A military prosecutor had called Manning a “traitor” at her 2013 court-martial, and officials have said the disclosures disrupted government operations and put people at risk, although prosecutors did not claim anyone was killed because of them.
一名军方检察官曾于2013年在军事法庭上把曼宁称为“叛徒”，一些官员则表示，这起泄密事件破坏了政府的行动，并把一些人置于危险之中，不过检方并未宣称该事件导致了任何人的死亡。
In a statement accompanying her petition asking Obama to reduce her sentence to the nearly seven years she already has served, Manning, now 29, said she never intended to hurt anyone and pleaded for a chance to start her life over.
现年29岁的曼宁在递交给奥巴马的请愿书中，请求对方将其刑期减至将近7年，也就是她已经被关押的时间。与此同时，她在一份声明中表示自己从未想要伤害任何人，恳求获得重新开始自己的生活的机会。
“I need help,” she wrote. “I am living through a cycle of anxiety, anger, hopelessness, loss, and depression. I cannot focus. I cannot sleep. I attempted to take my own life.”
“我需要帮助，”她写道。“我生活在一个由焦虑、愤怒、无助、失落和压抑构成的循环之中。我无法集中注意力。我无法入睡。我曾试图终结自己的生命。”
TRANSFORMATION IN A CRUCIBLE
大熔炉里的转变
On Aug. 22, 2013, the day after her sentencing for sending documents to WikiLeaks, Manning’s lawyer read a statement on the “Today” show announcing that she was female, wanted to be called “Chelsea” rather than “Bradley” and would seek cross-sex hormone therapy.
2013年8月22日，也就是曼宁因向维基解密发送文件而被判刑的第二天，她的律师在《今日秀》(Today)节目上阅读了一份声明，宣布她是一名女性，想要被人以“切尔西”而非“布拉德利”相称，将寻求跨性别激素治疗。
To observers of her court-martial, this was no surprise. Her motivation for leaking hundreds of thousands of files she had copied from a classified computer network while serving in Iraq, as she wrote at the time, was hope that they would spark “worldwide discussion, debates, and reforms.” But at her trial, she apologized and noted that she was “dealing with a lot of issues” when she had made that decision.
对于在军事法庭上见过她的人来说，这没什么好奇怪的。正如她当初所写的那样，她之所以把自己在伊拉克服役期间从一个机密电脑网络中复制的数十万份文件泄露出去，是希望它们能激起“世界范围内的讨论、争辩和改革”。但她在受审时道了歉，并提到她做出这一决定的时候正在“应对很多问题”。
Testimony showed that she had been in a mental and emotional crisis as she came to grips, in the stress of a war zone, with the fact that she was not merely gay, as she had believed while growing up in Oklahoma, but had gender dysphoria — a disconnect between one’s gender identity and sex assigned at birth. In the months before her leaks and May 2010 arrest, she had been behaving erratically and emailed a picture of herself wearing a woman’s wig to her supervisor.
证词显示，她此前一直处于心理和情感危机之中，既要承受身在战区必然承受的压力，又要勉力应对这样一个事实：她不只像其在俄克拉何马州长大成人期间所意识到的那样，是同性恋，还有性别焦虑症——一个人的性别认同和出生时的生理性别之间存在脱节。在泄露机密并于2010年5月被捕之前的数月间，她的行为举止有时失常，曾把一张头戴女士假发的照片发给了自己的上级。
The military sent Manning to serve out her sentence as a medium-security inmate at the Fort Leavenworth Disciplinary Barracks, its main prison for male inmates.
军方把曼宁作为一名中等安全级别的囚犯，送到军方的主要男子监狱莱文沃斯堡军事监狱(Fort Leavenworth Disciplinary Barracks)服刑。
Court documents show that Manning has had counseling sessions with a prison psychologist, Dr. Ellen Galloway, at least once a week, and military authorities have over time allowed her access to some treatments doctors prescribed for her gender dysphoria, in part because of pressure from a lawsuit filed by Chase Strangio, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, in September 2014.
法庭文件显示，曼宁得到了监狱的心理医生艾伦·加洛韦(Ellen Galloway)的辅导，每周至少一次。随着时间的推移，军方当局还允许她按照医生针对她的性别焦虑症所开的处方接受某些治疗，这在某种程度上是迫于美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)的律师沙斯·斯特兰焦(Chase Strangio)于2014年9月提起诉讼所带来的压力。
She can now wear female prison undergarments, including a sports bra, and “subdued cosmetics.” In early 2015, she was permitted to get speech therapy to feminize the tone and pitch of her voice and began cross-sex hormone therapy prescribed, Strangio said, by an endocrinologist brought in from the military’s Walter Reed hospital.
她现在可以穿为女囚准备的内衣，其中包括运动胸罩，还可以化上“淡妆”。斯特兰焦说，2015年初，她获准接受言语治疗，以便让音调和音高更女性化；还开始遵照来自军方华尔特里德医院(Walter Reed)的一名内分泌专家的医嘱进行跨性别激素治疗。
Since then, Manning wrote, she has developed breasts and curvier hips. “There have been significant changes since I’ve been taking the hormones, and I am happy with them,” she said.
自从那时起，曼宁写道，她的胸部开始变大，臀部的曲线也更明显了。“服用激素后，我有了显著的变化，我对这些变化感到高兴，”她说。
But, citing security risks, the military rejected the recommendation of an outside psychologist who said she should be permitted to further feminize her appearance by growing her hair longer than male military standards. Strangio is helping her challenge that restriction.
不过，军方以存在安全危险为由，拒绝了一名外部心理医生的建议。后者称，她应获准让外表变得更为女性化，把头发留长，超出男性军人头发的标准长度。斯特兰焦正帮助她对这一限制发起挑战。