Children born to middle-aged men are more likely than those born to younger fathers to develop any of a range of mental difficulties, including attention deficits, bipolar disorder, autism and schizophrenia, according to the most comprehensive study to date of paternal age and offspring mental health.
迄今为止对男性成为父亲时的年龄和子女精神健康状况的最全面研究显示，与出生时父亲还很年轻的孩子相比，中年男性孕育出的孩子更有可能患上某种精神疾病，包括注意力缺陷、躁郁症、自闭症和精神分裂症。
In recent years, scientists have debated based on mixed evidence whether a father’s age is linked to his child’s vulnerability to individual disorders like autism and schizophrenia. Some studies have found strong associations, while others have found weak associations or none at all.
最近几年，在父亲年龄与新生婴儿未来是否容易患孤独症和精神分裂症是否有关方面，呈现出了错综复杂的事实，科学家们就此也进行过争论。一些研究发现这两者存在有力联系，而另一些研究的结论则是，二者关系较弱，或者根本毫无关联。
The new report, which looked at many mental disorders in Sweden, should inflame the debate, if not settle it, experts said. Men have a biological clock of sorts because of random mutations in sperm over time, the report suggests, and the risks associated with later fatherhood may be higher than previously thought. The findings were published on Wednesday in the journal JAMA Psychiatry.
这份新的报告研究了瑞典的许多精神障碍病例。专家们说，该报告应该会激发热烈的讨论，甚至达成结论。报告称，由于精子随着时间推移会发生随机的基因突变，男性是有某种生物钟的，此外，较晚生育所产生的风险可能比之前认为得要高。这些研究成果周三被刊登在了《美国医学会杂志·精神病学》(JAMA Psychiatry)上。
“This is the best paper I’ve seen on this topic, and it suggests several lines of inquiry into mental illness,” said Dr. Patrick F. Sullivan, a professor of genetics at the University of North Carolina, who was not involved in the research. “But the last thing people should do is read this and say, ‘Oh no, I had a kid at 43, the kid’s doomed.’ The vast majority of kids born to older dads will be just fine.”
没有参与这项研究的北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)遗传学教授帕特里克·F·沙利文博士(Patrick F. Sullivan)说，“这是我看过的有关这一课题的最好论文，它提出了几种探索精神疾病的方法。不过，大家千万不要在看完这篇文章时产生这种想法， ‘噢，不，我43岁才有的孩子，这孩子完了。’大部分大龄父亲的孩子没什么问题。”
Dr. Kenneth S. Kendler, a professor of psychiatry and human molecular genetics at Virginia Commonwealth University, also urged caution in interpreting the results. “This is great work from a scientific perspective,” he said. “But it needs to be replicated, and biomedical science needs to get in gear and figure out what accounts for” the mixed findings of previous studies.
弗吉尼亚联邦大学(Virginia Commonwealth University)精神病学和人类分子遗传学教授肯尼斯·S·肯德勒博士(Kenneth S. Kendler)同时呼吁，要谨慎解读研究结果。 “从科学的角度讲，这是伟大的成果，”他说。 “但它需要被复制，生物医学需要打起精神，弄清楚”之前的研究结果为什么如此不一致。
The strengths of the new report are size and rigor. The research team, led by Brian M. D’Onofrio of Indiana University, analyzed medical and public records of about 2.6 million people born in Sweden from 1973 to 2001. Like many European countries, Sweden has centralized medical care and keeps detailed records, so the scientists knew the father’s age for each birth and were able to track each child’s medical history over time, as well as that of siblings and other relatives. Among other things, the analysis compared the mental health of siblings born to the same father and found a clear pattern of increased risk with increasing paternal age.
这份新研究的优势在于样本规模和精确度。由印第安纳大学(Indiana University)布莱恩·M·多诺弗里奥(Brian M. D’Onofrio)领导的这个研究小组分析了1973年至2001年在瑞典出生的约2.6万人的医疗和公共记录。像许多欧洲国家一样，瑞典提供集中的医疗服务，并保存着病人的详细记录，因此，科学家们知道每个新生儿父亲的年龄，并能长期跟踪每个孩子的病史，以及其兄弟姐妹和其他亲属的病史。该分析还把拥有同一个父亲的兄弟姐妹的精神健康状况进行了对比，并且发现了新生儿出生时父亲年龄越大，未来患病风险越高的明显规律。
Compared with the children of young fathers, aged 20 to 24, those born to men age 45 and older had about twice the risk of developing psychosis, the signature symptom of schizophrenia; more than three times the likelihood of receiving a diagnosis of autism; and about 13 times the chance of having a diagnosis of attention deficit disorder. Children born to older fathers also tended to struggle more with academics and substance abuse.
与20到24岁的年轻父亲孕育的孩子相比，45岁及以上男性孕育出的孩子患上精神错乱的概率要高一倍，这种精神错乱是精神分裂症的标志性症状；被诊断出自闭症的概率高出两倍以上；被诊断出注意力缺失症的概率要高出约12倍。出生时父亲年龄较大的孩子也容易在学习时更费力，而且容易吸毒酗酒。
The researchers controlled for every factor they could think of, including parents’ education and income. Older couples tend to be more stable and have more income — both protective factors that help to temper mental problems — and this was the case in the study. But much of the risk associated with paternal age remained.
这些研究人员为他们能想到的每一个因素都设置了对照组，包括父母的受教育程度和收入水平。年龄较大的夫妇往往生活更稳定，收入更多——都是有助于缓和精神问题的保护性因素——本研究中的情况也的确如此。但和成为父亲的年龄有关的许多风险仍然存在。
“We spent months trying to make the findings go away, looking at the mother’s age, at psychiatric history, doing sub-analyses,” Dr. D’Onofrio said. “They wouldn’t go away.”
“我们花了几个月的时间试图证明这些结论是错误的，我们研究了儿童母亲的年龄、精神病史，做亚分析，”多诺弗里奥博士说。 “但这些结论仍然成立。”
Dr. D’Onofrio had seven co-authors, including Paul Lichtenstein of the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm and Dr. Catarina Almqvist of the Karolinska Institute and Astrid Lindgren Children’s Hospital in nearby Solna.
多诺弗里奥博士有七名合作者，包括在斯德哥尔摩卡罗琳医学院(Karolinska Institute)的保罗·利希滕斯坦(Paul Lichtenstein)，和来自卡罗琳医学院和附近索尔纳市阿斯特丽德·林德格伦儿童医院(Astrid Lindgren Children’s Hospital)的卡塔里娜·阿尔姆奎斯特博士(Catarina Almqvist)。
The researchers say that any increased risk due solely to paternal age is most likely a result of the accumulation of genetic mutations in sperm cells. Unlike women, who age with a limited number of eggs, men have to replenish their supply of sperm cells. Studies suggest that the cells’ repeated reproductions lead to the accumulation of random errors over time, called de novo mutations. Most such mutations are harmless, geneticists say, but some have been linked to mental disorders.
研究人员说，如果仅仅因为出生时父亲年龄较大就承受了更大的风险，这很可能是精子细胞中基因突变积累的结果。和卵子数量有限的女性不同，男性需要补充精子细胞的数量。研究显示，这种细胞的重复复制会导致随机误差的累积，即“新生突变”(de novo mutations)。遗传学家说，大多数此类突变是无害的，但有些已被证实与精神障碍有关。
“It’s a plausible hypothesis at this point,” Dr. Sullivan said.
“目前而言，这是一个合理的假设，”沙利文博士说。
Experts say the numbers in the study look more alarming than they probably are. For example, Dr. Sullivan said, the overall prevalence of autism is 0.5 percent to 1 percent of the population, depending on the estimate and the location. But for the children of healthy parents in their 20s, the rate is perhaps one in 300, or even lower. A threefold increase would put the odds at about one in 100, still very low. The same goes for the risk of psychosis. The baseline rate is tiny for the children of young, healthy parents, and remains quite low even when doubled.
专家说，研究中的数据实际上可能没看上去那么吓人。例如，沙利文博士说，自闭症的平均患病率是0.5％到1％，具体取决于估计数和地理位置。但对于20多岁的健康父母生下的孩子来说，这个概率可能是三百分之一，甚至更低。如果增加到三倍，概率才会到百分之一，还是非常低的。精神错乱的概率也是如此。健康、年轻的父母的孩子本来患病的概率就微乎其微，即使加倍仍然相当低。
The researchers found much larger increases in risk for attention deficits (13-fold) and bipolar disorder (25-fold) associated with late fatherhood. “I don’t know what to do with those numbers,” Dr. Sullivan said, noting that two recent genetic studies found that the contribution of de novo mutations to the risk of mental disorders was “probably pretty low” compared with other factors.
研究人员发现，因为父亲年龄较大而大幅增加罹患风险的疾病是注意力缺失（13倍）和躁郁症（25倍）。 “我不知道该怎么处理这些数字，”沙利文博士说，并指出，最近的两项遗传学研究发现，与其他因素相比，新生突变对精神疾病的风险的贡献“可能相当低”。
“The question we now need to ask,” Dr. Kendler said, “is what else is going on with respect to older and younger siblings that could cause these differences.”
“我们现在要问的问题是，”肯德勒博士说，“对于存在这些区别的兄弟姐妹来说，因为出生时父亲年龄不一样，他们之间还有哪些差异。”