It is the scourge of many a middle-aged man: he starts getting a pot belly, using lighter weights at the gym and somehow just doesn’t have the sexual desire of his younger years.
这是许多中年男人的痛苦：他们开始有了大肚腩，开始减少健身器械的配重，而且不知为何，没有了年轻时候的性欲。
The obvious culprit is testosterone, since men gradually make less of the male sex hormone as years go by. But a surprising new answer is emerging, one that doctors say could reinvigorate the study of how men’s bodies age. Estrogen, the female sex hormone, turns out to play a much bigger role in men’s bodies than previously thought, and falling levels contribute to their expanding waistlines just as they do in women’s.
一个已经明确的元凶是睾酮，因为随着时间的流逝，男人产生的雄性激素渐渐变少。但现在还出现了一个令人惊讶的新答案。医生称这个答案会为有关男性身体如何变老的研究注入新的活力。结果证明，雌激素，也就是女性荷尔蒙，在男性身体中发挥的作用远大于之前的想像，而且，与女性一样，雌激素水平降低会导致男性腰围增大。
The discovery of the role of estrogen in men is “a major advance,” said Dr. Peter J. Snyder, a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, who is leading a big new research project on hormone therapy for men 65 and over. Until recently, testosterone deficiency was considered nearly the sole reason that men undergo the familiar physical complaints of midlife.
宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)医学教授彼得·J·斯奈德博士(Peter J. Snyder)表示，雌激素对男性的作用的相关发现是“一个重大进展”。斯奈德博士正在主持一个新的大规模研究项目——针对65岁及以上男性的激素疗法。一直以来，睾酮不足几乎被认为是导致中年男性出现常见身体不适症状的唯一原因。
The new frontier of research involves figuring out which hormone does what in men, and how body functions are affected at different hormone levels. While dwindling testosterone levels are to blame for middle-aged men’s smaller muscles, falling levels of estrogen regulate fat accumulation, according to a study published Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, which provided the most conclusive evidence to date that estrogen is a major factor in male midlife woes. And both hormones are needed for libido.
此项研究涉及一些新领域，比如弄清楚每一种激素对男性的作用，以及不同的激素水平如何影响身体机能。根据《新英格兰医学期刊》(The New England Journal of Medicine)周三发表的一篇论文，虽然睾酮水平下降是造成中年男性肌肉萎缩的原因，但雌激素水平的降低管控着脂肪的堆积。该论文提供了迄今为止最具说服力的证据，证明雌激素是导致中年男性遇到麻烦的主要因素。这两种激素都是激发性欲所需的。
“Some of the symptoms routinely attributed to testosterone deficiency are actually partially or almost exclusively caused by the decline in estrogens,” said Dr. Joel Finkelstein, an endocrinologist at Harvard Medical School and the study’s lead author, in a news release on Wednesday.
周三，哈佛大学医学院(Harvard Medical School)内分泌学家、上述论文的第一作者乔尔·芬克尔斯坦博士(Joel Finkelstein)在新闻通稿中表示，“通常被认为是因为睾酮不足而产生的一些症状，实际上部分或几乎完全是由雌激素减少引发的。”
His study is only the start of what many hope will be a new understanding of testosterone and estrogen in men. Dr. Snyder is leading another study, the Testosterone Trial, which measures levels of both hormones and asks whether testosterone treatment can make older men with low testosterone levels more youthful — by letting them walk more quickly, feel more vigorous, improve their sexual functioning and their memories, and strengthen their bones. Smaller studies have been promising but unreliable, and estrogen has not been factored in.
芬克尔斯坦博士的论文只是一系列研究的开端，在很多人看来，这些研究有望让我们对男性身体中睾酮及雌激素的作用形成一种新的认识。斯奈德博士正在主持另一项名为“睾酮临床试验”(Testosterone Trial)的研究。该研究测量两种激素的水平，并探寻睾酮治疗是否能使睾酮水平低的年长男性变得更年轻——使他们走得更快、感觉更有活力、增强性功能与记忆力，并强化骨骼。小规模研究的结果让人看到了希望，但并不可靠，而且雌激素还没有成为考虑因素。
“We had ignored this hormone in men, but we are studying it now,” said Dr. Alvin M. Matsumoto, a testosterone and geriatrics researcher at the University of Washington School of Medicine and the V.A. Puget Sound Health Care System, who is a Testosterone Trial researcher. “We are just starting out on this road.”
“我们以前忽略了男性身体中的雌激素，但我们现在正在做相关研究，”华盛顿大学医学院(Washington University School of Medicine)睾酮及老年病学研究员、退伍军人事务部皮吉特湾医疗系统(V.A. Puget Sound Health Care System)研究员阿尔文·M·松本博士(Alvin M. Matsumoto)说。“在这方面，我们只是刚刚起步。”松本博士是睾酮临床试验项目的研究员。
Both men and women make estrogen out of testosterone, and men make so much that they end up with at least twice as much estrogen as postmenopausal women. As levels of both hormones decline with age, the body changes. But until now, researchers have focused almost exclusively on how estrogen affects women and how testosterone affects men.
无论是男性还是女性，雌激素都是由睾酮转化而来的。男性的睾酮水平较高，因此他们最终的雌激素水平至少是绝经女性的两倍多。由于随着年龄的增长，两种激素的水平都有所降低，身体会出现一些变化。但迄今为止，研究人员几乎只注重研究雌激素对女性的影响，以及睾酮对男性的影响。
Dr. Finkelstein’s study provides a new road map of the function of each hormone and its behavior at various levels. It suggests that different symptoms kick in at different levels of testosterone deficiency. Testosterone, he found, is the chief regulator of muscle tone and lean body mass, but it takes less than was thought to maintain muscle. For a young man, 550 nanograms of testosterone per deciliter of blood serum is the average level, and doctors have generally considered levels below 300 nanograms so low they might require treatment, typically with testosterone gels.
芬克尔斯坦博士的研究为两种激素各自的功能及其在不同水平下的表现给出了一份新路线图。结果表明，不同程度的睾酮缺乏会触发不同的症状。他发现，睾酮是肌肉张力和去脂体重的首要调节因素，但维持肌肉所需的睾酮水平比之前预想的要低。年轻男性的平均水平是每100毫升血清中含有550毫微克睾酮。医生们普遍认为，低于300毫微克的话就属于过低，可能需要治疗，而一般的治疗药物为睾酮凝胶。
But Dr. Finkelstein’s study found that muscle strength and size turn out to be unaffected until testosterone levels drop very low, below 200 nanograms. Fat accumulation, however, kicks in at higher testosterone levels: at 300 to 350 nanograms of testosterone, estrogen levels sink low enough that middle-aged spread begins.
然而，芬克尔斯坦博士的研究发现，除非睾酮水平降至200毫微克以下的极低水平，肌肉力量与尺寸不会受到影响。不过，脂肪堆积会在较高的水平发生：睾酮为300到350毫微克的时候，雌激素就会降至触发中年发福的水平。
As for sexual desire and performance, both require estrogen and testosterone, and they increase steadily as those hormone levels rise. Researchers say it is too early to make many specific recommendations, but no one is suggesting that men take estrogen, because high doses cause feminine features like enlarged breasts.
至于性欲与性表现，两者均需要一定的雌激素和睾酮，而且随着这两种激素水平的上升而稳步提高。研究人员称，现在距离给出诸多明确建议还差很远，不过，并不建议男性使用雌激素，因为高剂量的雌激素会导致胸部增大等女性特征的出现。
Although doctors prescribe testosterone gels for men whose levels fall below 300 nanograms per deciliter, that cutoff point is arbitrary, and there is no clinical rationale for it, Dr. Finkelstein said. Often men take the hormone to treat complaints like fatigue, depression or loss of sexual desire, which may or may not be from low levels of testosterone. The data suggest that men with levels around 300 nanograms who complain of sexual problems may want to try testosterone, but those who complain of flagging muscle strength should not blame testosterone deficiency, Dr. Finkelstein said. But, he added, “symptoms of low testosterone tend to be quite vague.”
芬克尔斯坦博士表示，尽管医生会为每100毫升血清中睾酮含量低于300毫微克的男性开出睾酮凝胶的处方，但这种一刀切的标准过于武断，而且没有临床依据。一般情况下，男性使用激素是为了治疗疲劳、抑郁或性欲减退等症状，但它们与睾酮水平低下的关系并不明确。芬克尔斯坦博士称，数据显示，睾酮水平在300毫微克的男性如有性问题的话，可以尝试使用睾酮，但肌肉乏力的人则不应归咎于睾酮不足。不过，他还说，“睾酮水平低下的症状往往非常不明显。”
Today, millions of men are using testosterone gels, fueling a nearly $2 billion market.
目前有数百万男性使用睾酮凝胶，促成了一个近20亿美元（约合122亿元人民币）的市场。
For their study, Dr. Finkelstein and his colleagues recruited 400 men aged 20 to 50 who agreed to have their testosterone production turned off for 16 weeks. Half then received varying amounts of testosterone, while the other half also got a drug that shuts off estrogen synthesis so the researchers could assess the effects of having testosterone but not estrogen.
为了进行研究，芬克尔斯坦博士及同事招募了400名20到50岁的男性。他们志愿让睾酮停止分泌16周。其中一半接受不同剂量的外来睾酮，另外一半则同时使用一种药物，让雌激素停止合成。这样，研究者可以分析在没有雌激素的情况下睾酮的效应。
Now Dr. Finkelstein is repeating the study with older men. The Testosterone Trial is looking at them too.
芬克尔斯坦博士目前正在更年长的男性身上重复这项实验。斯奈德博士的睾酮临床试验也以年长男性为研究对象。
For that study, Dr. Snyder and his colleagues recruited nearly 800 men aged 65 and older who have low testosterone levels. The men take either a placebo or enough testosterone to bring their level to between 400 and 800. Investigators are assessing walking speed, sexual functioning, vitality, memory, red-blood-cell count, bones and coronary arteries. The yearlong study will be completed next year.
斯奈德博士及同事招募了近800名年龄不低于65岁的睾酮水平低下男性。其中一组人用安慰剂，另一组人则用睾酮，使得血清含量达到400到800毫微克之间。研究人员正在测试他们的行走速度、性功能、活力、记忆力、红细胞计数、骨骼和冠状动脉。这项研究为期一年，将于明年完成。
Next, researchers said, they want to do a large study like one conducted with thousands of women in 2002 that asked about long-term risks and benefits of hormone therapy. Does testosterone therapy lead, for example, to more prostate cancer? Does it prevent heart attacks?
研究者称，下一步，他们希望开展一项大型研究，和2002年的一次涉及数千名女性的激素疗法长期风险与益处的研究类似。比如说，他们想知道，睾酮疗法是否会提高前列腺癌风险？能否预防心肌梗塞？
“We still don’t know the answers to the clinical questions,” Dr. Matsumoto said. “Does it prevent things that are really important?”
“我们还不清楚这些临床问题的答案，”松本博士说。“它到底能不能预防一些很重要的东西？”