When you learn how to examine the female reproductive system in medical school, you generally work with a professional surrogate patient, and there is often a humiliating moment when you try to palpate the ovaries only to be told, in no uncertain terms, that you are way off-target. At such a moment, the male reproductive system seems quite simple and accessible.
当学生们在医学院学习检查女性生殖系统时，他们的检查对象一般都是专业替代病人。当学生们试着去触诊卵巢时，他们经常会面临一个尴尬的局面，而且会得到这样一个直白的答复：你压根就没找对地方。而此时，男性生殖系统则显得是那么的直观和触手可及。 
Yet simple it is not. Recent research suggests that we should be paying closer attention to male development, not just to help boys understand and care for a particularly sensitive and vulnerable part of their anatomy — but also to help answer larger questions about what is happening to boys and their growth.
然而男性生殖系统并不简单。最近的研究显示，我们应密切关注男性发育，这样做不仅能帮助男孩们理解并保护他们身体最为敏感而又脆弱的部分，同时也有利于回答关乎男孩发育变化和成长这个更为重要的问题。
As part of examining every baby boy, pediatricians check for a relatively common condition known as cryptorchidism, which means a hidden or secret testicle. Between 3 and 5 percent of newborn boys have at least one testicle that fails to descend into the scrotum, with a higher incidence in premature babies.
作为男婴健康检查的一个环节，儿科医生都会检查一个相对常见的症状，称为隐睾症，也就是睾丸不可见或隐藏起来的问题。约有3%-5%的新生婴儿至少有一个睾丸未降至阴囊内，而早产儿有此症状的概率更高。
In cases of cryptorchidism, the testicle may descend of its own accord during the first months after birth. If it doesn’t, there’s an operation, orchiopexy, that releases it into the scrotum. Most surgeons prefer to operate when the boy is about a year old. If the testicle remains in the abdomen, where the body temperature is higher, germ cells don’t mature properly and future sperm production and fertility are at risk.
对于某些患有隐睾症的婴儿来说，睾丸可能会在出生后第一个月内自动降至阴囊内。如果没有下降，则可以为婴儿实施手术，即睾丸固定术，藉此将睾丸放在阴囊内。大多数外科医生建议在婴儿约为一岁的时候实施该手术。如果睾丸一直留在体温较高的腹部内，则生精细胞难以发育成熟，而且会危及今后的生精能力和生育能力。
Doctors also worry about those undescended testicles because of a link to cancer down the line. A major new analysis published this month in The Archives of Disease in Childhood found that boys born with undescended testicles have three times the usual risk of developing testicular cancer. Boys who had this problem at birth need to know about it as they grow up, and need to learn how to do regular testicular self-exams.
医生们对未下降的睾丸感到担忧的另一个原因是它们日后与癌症的关联。《孩童时期的疾病档案》(The Archives of Disease in Childhood)本月发表的一项新的重大研究发现，患有隐睾症的男婴患睾丸癌的概率是普通男婴的3倍。出生时患有此症的男婴在成长过程中应了解自己的病史，而且有必要学会对睾丸进行定期自查。
“The message for parents is get them seen and checked by a specialist,” said Dr. Robert Carachi, professor of surgical pediatrics at the University of Glasgow and one of the authors of the study. “Adolescent men should be examining themselves. If there’s swelling or enlargement, get it checked early.”
上述研究作者之一的格拉斯哥大学(University of Glasgow)儿科外科教授罗伯特·卡拉奇博士(Dr. Robert Carachi)说：“家长们应带孩子去看专科医生。进入青春期后应进行自查。如果睾丸出现肿胀或增大，应早日就医。”
Regular self-exams for all — that is, for those not at higher risk of cancer — are not currently recommended because they can cause anxiety and have not been shown to improve outcomes in boys or men who aren’t at particular risk.
医生并不推崇让所有的人进行定期自检——这里指的是那些患睾丸癌概率较小的人群——因为这会引发焦虑，而且对于那些不具有睾丸癌高发风险的男孩和成年男性来说，这种方法也不会带来什么改善。
Pediatricians discuss other risks with boys who play sports, and we urge them to wear proper protection, a message that is sometimes lost, and not just on adolescents.
儿科医师还讨论了参与体育运动的男孩所面临的其他风险，而且我们敦促孩子们穿戴合适的护具，但这一点往往遭到青少年、甚至是成年人的忽视。
For all their protective equipment, professional football players, for example, tend not to wear protective cups to shield their genitals from the dangers on the field. According to Dr. Stephen G. Rice, director of the Jersey Shore Sports Medicine Center in Neptune, N.J., cups are rarely worn in soccer and football, where the players must change direction frequently as they run, as opposed to baseball, where most of the running is in a straight line.
例如，尽管保护设备很多，但职业橄榄球运动员并不愿意穿护裆来保护其生殖器免受来自球场的伤害。新泽西州尼普顿泽西海岸体育医疗中心(Jersey Shore Sports Medicine Center)的史蒂芬·赖斯博士(Dr. Stephen G. Rice)称，足球和橄榄球运动员几乎不穿护裆，因为他们在场上奔跑时需要频繁变向。这与棒球相反，棒球运动员在场上多数时间都在跑直线。
“For a lot of sports, it’s going to get in the way,” said Dr. Rice, who was one of the lead authors of the 2012 American Academy of Pediatrics policy statement on how to keep children safe when playing baseball and softball. The statement recommended cups for all participants. “Baseball is the exception because of how hard the ball is and how fast it comes,” he said. “It’s random chance, nothing to do with your skill level.”
2012年，美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)发表了有关保护参与棒球和垒球运动儿童的安全的政策声明，赖斯博士是主要作者之一。该声明建议所有参与运动的儿童都穿护裆。他说，“对于很多运动来说，穿护裆会碍事。但是棒球不同，因为球很硬，而且速度非常快。”他还说：“这是概率的问题，与你的技术无关。”
An injury from a flying baseball can cause excruciating pain, and learning to take responsibility for protecting yourself is part of maturity. And there is new evidence, also related to the testicular exam, that the pace of maturity may be shifting in disturbing ways for boys, as it is for girls. As boys grow toward puberty, the first invisible changes brought on by the hormonal signals occur in the testicles. They begin to grow and enlarge. Compared with the physical development of girls, these modest increases in testicular volume are not really noticeable to parents, or even to the boys themselves, said Marcia E. Herman-Giddens, adjunct professor of maternal and child health at the University of North Carolina.
被飞来的棒球砸中会引起剧痛，而学会把保护自己当成责任也是成熟的表现。而且新的与睾丸检查的证据表明，和女孩的发育过程可能会引起令人担忧的变化一样，男孩也是如此。随着男孩步入青春期，荷尔蒙带来的第一个直观变化就发生在睾丸上。睾丸开始生长并变大。北卡罗莱纳大学(University of North Carolina)妇幼保健客座教授马西亚·赫曼-吉登斯(Marcia E. Herman-Giddens)指出，与女孩的发育相比，睾丸大小的适度增加对于父母来说是难以察觉的，甚至对男孩自己也是如此。
But a 2012 study of 4,131 boys by Dr. Herman-Giddens and her colleagues found that subtle testicular enlargement, which signals the onset of puberty, is happening earlier than seen in previous studies. The changes could be measured, on average, by the age of 10. Overall, the researchers concluded, male puberty seems to be beginning 6 months to 2 years earlier than it used to.
2012年赫曼-吉登斯博士和她的同事对4131个男孩进行了调查，结果发现，作为步入青春期的信号，轻微睾丸增大发生的时间较以往调查提早了。这一可测的变化发生的平均年龄为10岁。总的来说，研究人员的结论是，男孩进入青春期的时间似乎比以前提早了6个月至两年。
Dr. Herman-Giddens was also one of the lead authors on the comparable study published in 1997 that caused an uproar by suggesting that female puberty was coming earlier. Some of the factors thought to be associated with earlier female puberty — obesity, diet changes, chemicals in the environment that affect hormones — may be at work in boys, too, but the mechanisms aren’t understood.
赫曼-吉登斯还是1997年发表的一篇比较研究的作者之一。该研究发现女孩进入青春期的时间也提早了，并在当时引起了轰动。人们认为与女孩青春期提早相关的一些因素包括肥胖、饮食变化和环境中存在的能影响荷尔蒙的化学物质。而这些因素可能也在影响着男孩，但是相关机理仍未查明。
Dr. Herman-Giddens said there was much less media attention to the news about puberty in boys, pointing out that the early changes in males — in particular the enlargement of the testicles — are much less visible than early breast development is in girls. But parents — and fourth- and fifth-grade teachers — need to be aware that relatively young boys may be dealing with the confusions and hormonal effects of early puberty.
赫曼-吉登斯说，媒体对男孩青春期信息的关注要少很多。他还指出，相对于女性的早期乳房发育，男性的早期变化——尤其是睾丸的增大——要隐蔽很多。但是家长们以及四五年级的教师们有必要意识到，年岁尚小的男孩也可能面临着青春期初期的困惑和荷尔蒙的影响。
“The sex hormones and especially testosterone are increasing in the boy’s body, and that’s what’s making the testes start to grow and that’s going to have an effect on the boy’s behavior,” Dr Herman-Giddens said. “Judgment, other aspects of psychological maturity — that’s not happening any faster.”
赫曼-吉登斯说：“性激素，尤其是睾酮，会促使男孩身体发育，睾丸增大，并影响他们的行为，而判断力和其他方面的心理成熟度却没能跟上身体增长的步伐。”
These subtle physiological changes tell us something more: that boyhood itself may be changing in ways we don’t completely understand, and that we need to be attentive to helping boys and young men take care of themselves as they grow.
这些微妙的心理变化揭露了更多的信息：少年阶段可能在以我们并不完全理解的方式发生着变化，而且我们需要留意帮助男孩和青少年学会在成长期间照顾自己。