SHANGHAI — After Fei Lin saw the damage done to a heritage-listed home in the French Concession district where she was raised, she decided that she had to do something.
上海——林飞（Fei Lin，音译）从小在从前的上海法租界地区长大，当她看到一栋遗产名录在列的房屋遭到的破坏时，她下决心必须要做些什么。
Ms. Lin, born in Shanghai, moved to London at the age of 18 to attend school and, after graduation, stayed on to establish herself as an interior designer.
林飞出生于上海，18岁时远赴伦敦读书，并于毕业后留下当了一名室内设计师。
After almost 20 years in England, she visited her hometown in 2007 and went to the lilong, or lane, where she had been raised. Each of the old lane houses had been awarded heritage status by the city, a program that Shanghai hopes will help preserve the traditional homes.
在英格兰生活了近20年后，她于2007年回乡探亲，来到自己小时候生活过的那条里弄，也就是一条小巷。旧弄堂里的每栋房屋都被市政府授予了“文化遗产”的身份，上海希望通过此项计划来保护这些传统住宅。
Ms. Lin was horrified to see that one new homeowner had built a wall around one of the old houses and, after shielding it from view, had demolished it so he could build a modern structure.
但令林飞惊骇的是，她看到一位新房主在其中一栋这样的旧宅周围建起一堵围墙，挡住了人们的视线。此后他就将房屋拆除了，以便修建一栋现代建筑。
“I was the one that actually called the police and reported it,” she said. “I was so shocked someone could do that, but what I could do about it was so limited.”
“是我去打电话报的警，”她说，“我感到十分震惊，竟然有人可以那样做。但是，我能做的太有限了。”
Though there is not much a single person can do to slow the replacement of Shanghai’s lane-style living with modern, high-rise apartments, Ms. Lin, 40, decided to acquire a small piece of the city for herself, a place she could renovate to retain its charm while still incorporating modern features.
尽管单凭个人力量，很难阻挡上海的弄堂生活逐渐被高耸的现代化公寓楼所取代，40岁的林飞还是决定，要在这座城市里为自己买下一小块地方，并使那里经过她的翻修，既能保留原有的魅力，又能融入现代的特色。
“I decided that it would be at least something to save one old house,” she said, “and I wanted to prove that you could renovate an old house like this and make it comfortable for modern life, without destroying it and totally replacing it.”
“我坚信，这样做至少可以挽救一栋老房子，”她说，“而且我也想证明一下，你可以通过这种方式将一栋老宅翻新，使它适合现代化的生活，而并不必拆毁房屋、全部重建。”
So during her visit, Ms. Lin bought the 904-square-foot, or 87-square-meter, top floor of a three-story lane house for 1.76 million renminbi, or about $287,000. At the time, the apartment was composed of a main room, kitchen and small bedroom, so she immediately started on a loft conversion, raising the back roof and adding a roof terrace.
于是，在造访上海期间，林飞花了176万人民币（或大约28.7万美元），买下一套面积为904平方英尺（或87平方米）、位于一栋三层弄堂老宅顶层的公寓。购下当时，这套公寓包括一个大开间、一个厨房和一间小卧室。随后她立即开始着手将其改造成跃层公寓的工程，升高了房屋后部的房顶，并增加了一个屋顶平台。
The renovations led to another call to the authorities, but this time it was Ms. Lin’s neighbor on the second floor, reporting her for an illegal loft conversion.
这些翻修工程让管理部门又接到了电话，但这次是来自林飞二楼的邻居，举报她进行非法的阁楼改造施工。
Ms. Lin said that she had tried to get permits for the work but that officials told her that no such permits existed and that, if anyone complained, she should just say she was doing the work for health and safety reasons. Like many things in China, there are lots of gray areas in building and construction regulation.
林飞说，她也试过为这项改造申请许可，但那些官员告诉她，并没有这么一种许可。如果有人投诉，她只需说这样做是为了健康和安全的考虑就行了。正如中国的许多事情一样，在针对建筑与建造业的管理当中，存在大量的灰色地带。
As it turns out, the neighbor simply wanted to use the threat of legal action to force Ms. Lin to buy his apartment, too. The tactics were unnecessary, she said, as she was happy to take his share of the building off his hands.
原来，这位邻居只不过想利用法律手段的威慑力，迫使林飞也买下他的那套公寓。其实他大可不必出此下策，她说，因为她很高兴能从那人手里接下他在这栋房子里占有的部分。
Although the house’s ground level is still owned by a reluctant seller in his 90s, his four children have allowed Ms. Line to include the space in her renovations and agreed to transfer the deed to her when their father dies.
尽管房子的底层仍然住着一位不愿售出房产的90多岁老人，但他的四个孩子已经允许林飞把这片地方也纳入她的翻修计划中，并同意在他们的父亲去世之后，把契约转让给她。
With all three levels under her control, Ms. Lin, who now lives in Shanghai full time, split the property into two self-contained, 1,500-square-foot, two-bedroom apartments.
在获得全部三层楼的掌控权后，如今已经长居上海的林飞把这栋房产分成了两套独门独户、面积各为1500平方英尺（约合139.35平方米）、带有两间卧室的公寓。
With the help of local contractors, she added a spiral staircase to the property’s central courtyard and renovated the lower two floors, saving materials that could be reused where possible and retaining original features, including windows and doors. The work was a particular challenge, she said, as it had to be done without damaging the already-renovated third level.
在当地承包商的协助下，她为房子的中庭加了一段旋转楼梯，并重铺了楼下两层的地板，把能够重新利用的材料留下来，用在需要的地方，并保留了建筑原来的特征，包括窗户和大门。这项工程特别具有挑战性，她说，因为要在不破坏已翻修过的第三层的前提下完成。
As with many old properties — the building was constructed in 1907 — the electrical wiring needed updating, but, Ms. Lin said, it was the structure of the house, which sits in the middle of a row of other homes, that caused the most problems.
这栋建于1907年的房屋和许多老房子一样，需要更新电路。林飞说，但由于这栋房屋坐落在一排其它住宅之间，它本身的结构导致的问题最多。
“This lane is really old and the foundation is very shallow, and there was so much construction going on everything was sinking,” she said. “Each building shared a single brick wall with its two neighboring houses, so I added another layer to that, which eats into the interior space, but also helped make the place more structurally sound.”
“这条弄堂实在太老了，地基非常浅，而且还有那么多地方在大兴土木，到处都在沉降，”她说，“每一栋建筑都与相邻的两栋屋子共用一堵砖墙，所以，我在上面又加了一层，虽然侵占掉一些室内空间，但也有助于让这栋房子的结构更加稳固。”
The completed apartments have ceilings of 13 feet, or 4 meters; plenty of light; open kitchens (the ground-floor apartment includes a kitchen island designed by Ms. Lin for the space); and bathrooms with an industrial feel, thanks to the selection of glass, polished concrete and sleek fixtures.
翻修完毕的两套公寓，有高达13英尺——或4米的天花板、充足的采光、开放式厨房（底层公寓里有一座厨房岛台，由林飞专门为这处空间设计），还有一处散发出工业气息的浴室，这得益于对采用玻璃的选择、抛光的混凝土表面和光滑的浴室配件。
Charlie Gale, 29, who was born in the United States, has been in Shanghai for over six years and Ms. Lin’s tenant for five months. He says he appreciates the comforts of the renovated space as well as lane living, which he believes is a more authentically Chinese experience than in a high-rise apartment.
29岁的查理·加尔(Charlie Gale)生于美国，他已在上海生活了六年多，在林飞这里当房客也有五个月了。他说自己喜欢这栋翻修房屋的舒适感，也喜欢弄堂里的生活，他相信这里比住在高耸的公寓楼中更有真正的中国味儿。
“When I first came to Shanghai I lived in an apartment block and I loved the convenience, but after a while, I wanted to get into, not so much a Chinese lifestyle, but to get more within China,” Mr. Gale said.
“我初次来到上海的时候住在一栋公寓楼里，我喜欢那里的便捷。但过了一阵，我就想要更加深入中国，而不只是一处有着中式风格的地方。”加尔说。
“It’s very easy for me to live here,” he said. “It’s very comfortable. There is floor heating in winter; the hot water always works, and I have lots of friends in this lane. There are old guys always hanging out on the corner and we all get along, which is nice.”
“我觉得住在这里非常轻松，”他说，“这里的生活十分舒适。冬天有地暖，也一直有热水供应，而且我在这条弄堂里有很多朋友。有几位老人家经常在转角处扎堆聊天，我们相处得非常好，这很不错。”
Though Ms. Lin estimates that the entire property could be sold now for as much as 21 million renminbi, she has no plans to let it go. “I think I will keep it forever,” she said. “I can’t imagine selling it. To me, it’s irreplaceable. To me, it’s more than just a house, really.”
尽管根据林飞的估计，这栋房子现在可能卖到2100万元人民币的价格，但她还没有出售的计划。“我想我会一直留着这栋房子，”她说，“我无法想象自己会卖掉它。对我来说，它是不可替代的。对我来说，这不仅仅是一栋房子，真的。”