Joseph Conrad wasn’t the only literary European who traveled through the Congo basin during the 19th-century rush to harvest the region’s ivory, animal hides, minerals and especially its “black gold” — the liquid latex that welled in its rubber trees. While journeying by caravan to Léopoldville in 1890 to take charge of the merchant ship Le Roi des Belges, Conrad met Roger Casement, a handsome 25-year-old Irish do-­gooder who had lived and worked in the Congo Free State for the past few years. Like Conrad, Casement had come to Africa buoyed by the conviction that European colonization would bring moral and social progress to the continent and free its inhabitants “from slavery, paganism and other barbarities.” Each man would soon learn the gravity of his error.
在十九世纪涌向刚果盆地掠夺象牙、兽皮、矿产，以及格外重要的“黑金”（从橡胶树里冒出的液态乳胶)的热潮中，约瑟夫·康拉德(Joseph Conrad)不是唯一周游过当地的欧洲文人。1890年，他坐着大篷车前往利奥波德维尔接管“比利时国王”号商船，路上遇见了罗杰·凯斯门特(Roger Casement)，一个25岁、样貌英俊的爱尔兰空想社会改良家，此前几年一直在刚果自由邦居住工作。和康拉德一样，凯斯门特之所以来到非洲，是因为坚信欧洲的殖民会给这片大陆带来道德和社会的进步，把居民“从受人奴役、异教信仰和其他野蛮行径中”解放出来。两人都很快意识到自己错得离谱。
For Casement, the turning point may have been the sight of a Belgian officer of the Force Publique mercilessly whipping an unconscious Congolese boy with a chicote, a “vinelike cord” made of hippo hide, known for its ability to “produce more burning, blood, scars and pain than any other scourge.” Later, while traveling through Peru on assignment for the British government, Casement would come across men, women and children who had been branded, beaten, pilloried, mutilated and enslaved by rapacious employees of the rubber companies. Years later, both Conrad and Casement earned fame for their accounts of the atrocities they encountered; but while Conrad and his short novel “Heart of Darkness” would be remembered, Casement and his reports on human rights abuses in Congo and Amazonia would be all but forgotten, overshadowed by his ignominious end.
对凯斯门特而言，转折点也许是目睹了公共部队(Force Publique)一名比利时军官用chicote——一种“类似藤蔓的绳索”，用河马皮制成，出了名的“比任何鞭子都更擅长制造灼伤、出血、疤痕和疼痛”——无情地鞭打一个不省人事的刚果男孩。后来，在受英国政府委派视察秘鲁各地时，凯斯门特邂逅了遭受贪婪的橡胶公司员工奴役、毒打、致残、被打上烙印、带上颈手枷的男男女女和儿童。多年后，康拉德和凯斯门特都以记述他们撞见的暴行而获得声望；然而，在康拉德与其中篇小说《黑暗之心》(Heart of Darkness)流芳百世的同时，凯斯门特和他留下的有关刚果和亚马逊地区侵犯人权现象的报告，却几乎没人记得，被他身败名裂的人生结局蒙上了一层阴影。
In his latest novel, “The Dream of the Celt,” the Peruvian author Mario Vargas Llosa unearths the achievements of this complicated man of conscience, reasserting his credentials as “one of the great anticolonial fighters and defenders of human rights and indigenous cultures of his time, and a sacrificed combatant for the emancipation of Ireland.” Although Casement was an Irishman (born in 1864 to a Protestant father and a Roman Catholic mother, and orphaned in childhood), he spent most of the first decade of the 20th century as a British consul, investigating working conditions on rubber plantations in Congo and Peru. His reports, which stirred public outrage, earned him a knighthood in 1911.
秘鲁作家马里奥·巴尔加斯·略萨(Mario Vargas Llosa)的最新小说《凯尔特人之梦》(The Dream of the Celt)发掘了这位有着复杂经历的正义之士的成就，重新肯定了他作为“那个年代最伟大的反殖民斗士，人权和土著文化捍卫者，献身于爱尔兰解放运动的战士”的地位。虽然凯斯门特是爱尔兰人（生于1864年，父亲是新教徒，母亲是罗马天主教徒，童年时父母双亡），但二十世纪的第一个十年里，他绝大多数时间都在担任不列颠领事，调查刚果和秘鲁橡胶种植园的工作环境。他的那些引来群情激愤的报告，帮助他在1911年获得了一个爵位。 
This honor notwithstanding, Casement’s loathing of colonialism gradually led him to see England as an enemy occupier and turned him into a fervent Irish nationalist. In 1914, in the early months of World War I, Casement traveled to Germany with his perfidious Norwegian lover (a man named Eivind Adler Christensen) to seek the kaiser’s help in arming the Irish against Britain. Upon his return to Ireland, in April 1916, he was captured, imprisoned, stripped of his knighthood and hanged as a traitor in Pentonville Prison in London. Casement’s fate was sealed not only by his collaboration with the enemy but by the release, to certain influential people, of lurid excerpts from his “black diaries” — books attributed to him that contained descriptions of various homosexual encounters, real and (perhaps, in Vargas Llosa’s view) imagined.
虽然有这份荣誉加身，对殖民主义的厌恶还是促使凯斯门特渐渐把英格兰视作占领祖国的敌人，将他变成了一个激进的爱尔兰民族主义者。1914年，在第一次世界大战爆发后的最初几个月里，凯斯门特和那个对他不忠的挪威恋人（一个名叫Eivind Adler Christensen的男子）前往德国，请求凯撒帮助爱尔兰人武装反抗英国。1916年4月，在返回爱尔兰之际，他被逮捕收监，剥夺了爵士封号，以叛徒罪在伦敦的本顿维尔(Pentonville)监狱被处以绞刑。为凯斯门特惹来杀身之祸的，不只是通敌的行为；还包括那些“黑色日记”——其中一些骇人的片段被分发当时的某些权势人物查看——这些书被认为是出自凯斯门特之手，包含了许多同性恋爱关系的描写，其中有真实的，也有（被巴尔加斯·略萨怀疑是）杜撰的。
In 1916, in wartime, no clemency was possible for a man whose record bore the double blots of treason and homosexuality. In the 1930s, William Butler Yeats, whom Casement admired for his role in reviving Irish lore, history and tradition, wrote a poem in his defense (“What gave that roar of mockery, / That roar in the sea’s roar? / The ghost of Roger Casement / Is beating on the door”), but it wasn’t until the 1960s that Casement’s remains were taken from London to Dublin for a proper funeral. Now, nearly a century after Casement’s execution, Vargas Llosa has attempted to appease his uneasy ghost, assembling a case for his reprieve.
1916年，战争期间，一个身上有叛国和同性恋双重污点的人，是不可能获得宽恕的。二十世纪三十年代，威廉·巴特勒·叶芝(William Butler Yeats)——凯斯门特对其在爱尔兰民俗、历史和传统复兴上做出的贡献钦佩不已——用一首诗来替他辩护（“是什么发出那嘲笑的喧嚷，/那海洋的嚣喧中的嚣喧？/罗杰·凯斯门特的鬼魂/正在敲门”），可是直到六十年代，凯斯门特的遗体才从伦敦运回都柏林，举行了一个像样的葬礼。如今，距处决凯斯门特过去了近一个世纪后，巴尔加斯·略萨企图抚慰他不安的灵魂，为他组织一次平反。 
Vargas Llosa had been a published fiction writer for more than 50 years when this novel appeared in Spanish in November 2010. The previous month, the Swedish Academy had declared him the winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature, an honor that, in the opinion of many readers, was long overdue. But had this book appeared before October, it might have seemed that the Nobel category Vargas Llosa was courting wasn’t “Literature” but “Peace.”
巴尔加斯·略萨是一位已有五十多年创作和出版经历的小说家，这部小说的西班牙语版于2010年11月问世。而就在那之前的一个月，瑞典学院宣布他获得了诺贝尔文学奖，在许多读者眼里，这是一份迟到已久的荣誉。可假如这本书是在10月前出版的话，似乎，巴尔加斯·略萨追求的诺贝尔奖也许不是“文学”而是“和平”。 
“The Dream of the Celt,” felicitously and faithfully translated by Edith Grossman, feels anomalous when contrasted with the rest of Vargas Llosa’s vast, pliable oeuvre; it’s unusually straightforward and information-packed. The action is presented in long, chronological flashbacks, which Casement recalls from the prison where he awaits the hangman’s noose, shunned by most of his powerful friends. Organized by biographical milestones and itineraries, the novel encyclopedically recapitulates Casement’s observations of “indescribable cruelties” (though Vargas Llosa describes them quite effectively) on two continents, brought about by men “driven by greed and base instincts in a lawless world.” Only rarely does a flight of fancy enter the ledger, as when Casement and his companions notice the “variety, size and beauty” of the butterflies in the Peruvian Amazon, which “seemed to dazzle the air with delicate notes, a compensation for the moral ugliness they discovered at every turn, as if there were no end to wickedness, greed and pain in this unfortunate land.” Very occasionally, Casement is permitted a spicy reverie, as when he delights in the erotic vision of a muscular Angolan porter wearing a “light piece of cloth” around his hips that “opened and offered a glimpse of his sex.”
《凯尔特人之梦》一书（英文版）由伊迪丝·格罗斯曼(Edith Grossman)翻译，译文贴切而忠实，与巴尔加斯·略萨其余浩繁圆通的作品相比，这本小说的直白和巨大的信息量显得不寻常。情节是通过冗长的、时序性的闪回呈现出来的，在狱中等待被送上绞刑架的凯斯门特回忆着往事，那些位高权重的朋友大多跟他断绝了来往。通过整理重大的生平事件和旅行记录，小说包罗万象地概括了凯斯门特在两块大陆上观察到的“难以言传的野蛮”（巴尔加斯·略萨倒是把它们描绘得有声有色），罪魁祸首是“这些无法无天的世界里受着贪欲和本能驱使”的人们。只有当凯斯门特和同伴们注意到秘鲁亚马逊流域的蝴蝶之“多样、庞大和美丽”时，这本流水帐里才闪过几丝难得的情趣，蝴蝶“仿佛精致的音符，连空气都被感染得炫目起来，这片不幸的土地上，邪恶、贪婪和痛苦似乎无止无尽，他们在每一个角落里都能看到道德败坏的丑行，蝴蝶算是对这一切的一种补偿。”有那么极少的几次机会，凯斯门特可以抒发一下风月遐思，例如愉快地描绘了一个肌肉发达的安哥拉搬运工腰间围着“一块薄布”，布“被撩开，让人好见识见识他是个带种的。”
Vargas Llosa has two chief modes of writing: serious politico-historical novels like “The Feast of the Goat” and “The War of the End of the World” and sensual picaresques like “Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter” and “The Bad Girl.” The two modes often intertwine, each creeping lushly into the other: humor and wit leaven the more political novels, while acute social observations deepen the lighter ones. In this instance, however, Vargas Llosa’s revulsion at Casement’s accounts of the horrors to be found in Congo and Amazonia, as well as his respect for the consul’s role in exposing them, may have sapped his desire to take many liberties in reconceiving Casement’s personal history. How did Casement’s closeted yet (so it would seem) hotly pursued homosexuality shape his identity? Vargas Llosa doesn’t speculate, reserving most of his thoughts on the question for his epilogue, as if to deliberately avoid what he calls the “novelesque.” Instead, he restricts himself to underscoring the ever-present dangers of the abuse of power.
巴尔加斯·略萨的写作主要是两套模式：严肃的政治历史小说，如《公羊的节日》(The Feast of the Goat)、《世界末日之战》(The War of the End of the World)；以及色欲满盈的流浪传奇小说，如《胡利娅姨妈与作家》(Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter)、《坏女孩的恶作剧》(The Bad Girl)。这两种模式经常交织，不声不响地潜入彼此：幽默和机智为政治小说增添了生气，而尖锐的社会观察则让那些轻松的小说深刻起来。可是这一次，巴尔加斯·略萨对凯斯门特在刚果和亚马逊地区发现的恐怖状况是深恶痛绝的，另外也出于对揭发恶行的领事的尊重，他并没有重新构思凯斯门特的个人历史的念头。他未曾公开（看上去是这样）同性恋取向，但对此有过积极的追求，这一点和他的身份认同有何关联？巴尔加斯·略萨不作猜测，他对这个问题的思考大部分都集中在后记里，仿佛是在有意避免他所谓的“小说腔”(novelesque)。而在书里，他给自己限定的任务是强调权力的滥用永远是危险的。 
It’s easy to share Vargas Llosa’s enthusiasm for Casement as he retraces the man’s daring and difficult journeys through Africa and South America. But when he follows Casement on the third and final leg of his life’s voyage, traveling to Germany to woo the kaiser on behalf of Irish rebels, he loses his way — as, indeed, did Casement. It may be true, as Vargas Llosa writes, that in Congo Casement learned the “great lie of colonialism” and began to feel “like the citizen of a country occupied and exploited by the Empire that had bled and weakened Ireland.” And Casement’s charge that if the “methods of colonization in Europe are more refined,” they are “no less cruel” will find its supporters. It may not have been necessary, however, to defend all of Casement’s decisions in order to applaud his great and wrongly overlooked contribution to the quest for human dignity. A man doesn’t need to be heroic in everything he does in order to be a hero in his time.
看巴尔加斯·略萨追溯凯斯门特大胆而艰难的非洲、南美之旅，我们很容易就能感受到他对这个人的浓厚兴趣。不过，等到他跟随凯斯门特来到人生第三段、也就是最后一段旅程，代表爱尔兰反抗军去德国向凯撒求援时，巴尔加斯·略萨迷路了——没错，凯斯门特也是。也许的确如巴尔加斯·略萨所写的那样，凯斯门特是在刚果发现了“殖民主义的弥天大谎”，开始觉得自己是“被英帝国——曾压榨和削弱过爱尔兰的英帝国——占领并剥削的国家的公民。”而凯斯门特认为即便“欧洲采取更文明的殖民手段”，殖民行为的“残酷性不会有分毫减弱”，这种看法也是会有支持者的。然而，仅仅为了彰显他在追求人道尊严方面所作的巨大贡献，以及遭受的不公正的忽视，就要对他的每一个决定都加以维护，似乎又是没有必要的。一个人要成为他所在时代的英雄，不需要在每一件事情上都像个英雄一样。