A Facebook post said to be written by the 11-year-old son of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, and “liked” or commented on by several people who appear to be the children and grandchildren of other senior members of Mr. Assad’s government, may offer a glimpse into the mindset of Syria’s ruling elite as the country braces for a potential Western strike in response to a chemical weapons attack on Aug. 21.
Facebook上出现了一篇据称由叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)11岁的儿子所写的帖子，几个似乎是阿萨德政府其他高级成员子孙的人还“赞”或评论了该帖。8月21日，叙利亚发生了一次化学武器袭击，为了回应此事，西方可能会对叙发动攻击。目前，叙利亚正在为应对西方的攻击做准备，这篇帖子或许为我们提供了一个了解叙利亚统治精英思维的机会。
It is impossible to confirm whether the Facebook account does, in fact, belong to the son, Hafez al-Assad, and aspects of it invite doubt. For example, the owner of the account wrote that he was a graduate of Oxford University and a player for a Barcelona soccer team, neither of which would be likely to appear on the résumé of an 11-year-old boy in Damascus. But those claims could also be read as the ambitions of a child, and there are reasons to believe that the account may actually belong to Hafez.
人们无法确定这个Facebook账号是否真的属于阿萨德的儿子哈菲兹·阿萨德(Hafez al-Assad)，该账号的一些讯息也引发了疑问。例如，账号的主人写道，他毕业于牛津大学(Oxford University)，而且是巴塞罗那一个足球队的球员，这两件事情都不可能出现在大马士革一名11岁男孩的简历上。但是，这些说法可以解读为孩子的抱负。此外，有一些理由让人们相信，这个账号可能真的属于哈菲兹。
Regardless of its provenance, the post appears to illustrate the mindset of Mr. Assad’s core supporters, who have stood by him through more than two years of a grinding war that has killed more than 100,000 Syrians and caused millions more to flee their homes.
不管出自何人，这条帖子似乎都表现了阿萨德的忠诚支持者的思想，这些人在两年多的残酷战争中一直与他站在一起。这场战争共导致超过10万叙利亚人死亡，迫使数百万人背井离乡。
The post is riddled with spelling and grammatical errors that would not be unusual for a child, and it may offer a glimpse into the way the country’s leaders — or, at the very least, Mr. Assad’s supporters — speak to one another and to their families as the specter of foreign military intervention looms.
这篇帖子到处是拼写和语法错误，对于孩子而言，这并不奇怪。此外，它或许可以让我们略窥叙利亚领导人——至少是阿萨德的支持者——在外国军事力量即将插手干预之时互相沟通以及与家人沟通的方式。
Judging from the post, supporters of Mr. Assad do not appear to be particularly afraid of the United States.
从这篇帖子来看，阿萨德的支持者似乎并不怎么害怕美国。
“They may have the best army in the world, maybe the best airplanes, ships, tanks than ours, but soldiers? No one has soldiers like the ones we do in Syria,” the post’s author wrote of the United States military. “America doesn’t have soldiers, what it has is some cowards with new technology who claim themselves liberators.”
“他们或许拥有世界上最好的军队，也许拥有最好的飞机、战舰和坦克，这些我们都没有。但是士兵呢？没有哪个国家的士兵可以与叙利亚士兵相提并论，”帖子的作者在提到美国军队时写道。“美国根本没有士兵，他们只有一些自称为解放者、拥有新技术的懦夫。”
The author then compared the potential American airstrikes to the 2006 war between Israel and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, a close ally of the Assad regime in the current conflict. Many in the Arab world saw Hezbollah as the victor of the 2006 clash.
然后，作者又把美国可能发动的空袭比作了2006年以色列和黎巴嫩武装组织真主党(Hezbollah)之间的战争。在目前的冲突中，真主党是阿萨德政府的亲密盟友。阿拉伯世界的很多人都认为，真主党是2006年那场冲突的胜利者。
“I just want them to attack sooo much, because I want them to make this huge mistake of beginning something that they don’t know the end of it,” he wrote. “What did Hezbollah have back then? Some street fighters and some small rockets and a pile of guns, but they had belief, In theirselves and in their country and that’s exactly what’s gonna happen to America if it chooses invasion because they don’t know our land like we do, no one does, victory is ours in the end no matter how much time it takes.”
“我巴不得他们发动袭击，因为我希望他们犯下这个巨大的错误，挑起一件他们根本无法预知结果的事情，”他写道。“真主党那时又有什么呢？一些街头战士，一些小石块和一堆枪而已，但是他们有信心，对自己和祖国有信心。如果美国选择入侵，它就会获得同样的下场，因为他们不像我们这样了解我们的国土，没人能像我们一样了解。不管要花多少时间，胜利最终都属于我们。”
The owner of the account wrote that he was a graduate of a Montessori school in Damascus, a detail of the Assad children’s lives that Vogue magazine reported in a February 2011 profile of their mother, Asma al-Assad. That article portrayed them as typical suburban children who played with remote control cars and watched Tim Burton movies on an iMac as they lounged around the family home, described as running “on wildly democratic principles.” It has since been removed from the Vogue Web site, but Joshua Landis, a well-known scholar of Syrian politics, posted a copy to his blog.
账户的主人写道，他是大马士革一所名为蒙台梭利(Montessori)的学校的毕业生，《Vogue》杂志曾在2011年2月看法一篇有关阿萨德之妻阿斯马·阿萨德(Asma al-Assad)的人物特写，其中提到了阿萨德的孩子的生活细节，学校的名字也是其中之一。那篇文章将他们描绘为典型的郊区儿童，他们玩遥控汽车，通过iMac观看蒂姆·波顿(Tim Burton)的电影，懒洋洋地在家里东游西荡，并称这是“按照广泛的民主原则”进行家教。Vogue网站后来删除了这篇文章，但研究叙利亚政治的知名学者乔舒亚·兰迪斯(Joshua Landis)在自己的博客中上传了这篇文章。
Perhaps most significantly, the Facebook post said to have been written by Hafez al-Assad has been “liked” or commented on by several accounts that appear to belong to the children or grandchildren of other senior figures in the Assad administration. Among them are accounts that seemingly belong to two children of Deputy Vice President Mohammed Nassif Khierbek, Ali and Sally, and to three children of a former deputy defense minister, Assef Shawkat, who was killed in a bombing in July 2012.
最意味深长的一点或许是，几个似乎是阿萨德政府其他高级成员子孙的人还“赞”或评论了这篇据称由哈菲兹·阿萨德发布的Facebook帖子。其中两个评论者的账号似乎属于叙利亚代理副总统穆罕默德·纳西夫·凯尔贝克(Mohammed Nassif Khierbek)的孩子阿里(Ali)和萨莉(Sally)，还有三个账户属于前国防部副部长阿塞夫·舒卡特(Assef Shawkat)的三个孩子，舒卡特在2012年7月的一次爆炸事件中丧生。
The accounts said to belong to the children of Mr. Shawkat — one of his sons, Bassel, and two of his daughters, Anisseh and Boushra — appeared to be authentic, according to a Syrian journalist from Damascus who has extensive knowledge of the country’s ruling elite and spoke on condition of anonymity, citing safety concerns. Mr. Shawkat was married to the sister of Bashar al-Assad, making these three children cousins of Mr. Assad’s son Hafez, who is believed to be the author of the Facebook post.
据大马士革的一名叙利亚记者透露，那些据称属于舒卡特子女——儿子巴西勒(Bassel)，女儿阿尼赛(Anisseh)和布什拉(Boushra )——的账号似乎是真的。这名记者非常了解叙利亚的精英统治阶层，出于安全考虑，他要求匿名。舒卡特娶了巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的姐姐，他这三个孩子因此就是阿萨德之子哈菲兹的表兄妹，哈菲兹据信是上述Facebook帖子的作者。
Many of the people who commented on the post had changed their profile pictures to show portraits of the Syrian leader or his father, also named Hafez, who ruled the country for three decades before Bashar al-Assad took power in 2000. Several of them referenced the author’s relationship to the two President Assads. One referred to the author by a diminutive and familiar nickname, “Hafouz,” and complimented him for his strength and intelligence, writing that such a feat was unsurprising for the son and grandson of the past two presidents. Another commenter wrote: “Like father like son! Well said future President!”
很多对帖子发表评论的人都将头像换成了阿萨德或阿萨德之父的照片，阿萨德的父亲也叫哈菲兹，曾统治叙利亚30年之间，直到阿萨德于2000年执政为止。其中一些人提到了帖子作者与两位阿萨德总统的关系。一个人用表示怜爱的昵称“哈夫兹”(Hafouz)来称呼帖子作者，称赞作者的意志与智慧，并且表示，两位前总统的儿子和孙子有这样的壮举，并不令人吃惊。另一名评论者写道，“有其父必有其子！未来的总统说得好！”
If the Facebook post attributed to Mr. Assad’s son is a hoax, it is either a highly elaborate one involving dozens of fake accounts purporting to belong to the children of other regime insiders, or a forgery so impressive that some of those children themselves — including the boy’s cousins — have been fooled.
据称出自阿萨德儿子之手的这篇Facebook帖子如果是一场骗局，那就算得上一场煞费苦心的骗局，涉及几十个伪装其他政权内部人士子女的假账号，要不就是一种极其逼真的虚构，以致于其中一些孩子——包括哈菲兹的表兄妹——本身都遭到了愚弄。