SYDNEY, Australia — It may be a week or more before investigators determine whether a piece of debris found on the island of Réunion came from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, a French official with knowledge of the investigation said on Thursday.
澳大利亚悉尼——一名了解调查情况的法国官员本周四表示，可能需要一周或更长时间，才能确定一块在留尼旺岛发现的碎片是否属于马航MH370航班。
The object, which appeared to be a wing flap torn from a jetliner, has been crated and sealed for shipment to France, the official said, but it is not expected to reach Paris for two or three days.
该官员表示，这块物体已经被装箱密封运往法国，但预计要两三天后才会抵达巴黎。这块碎片似乎是一架客机的襟翼。
Once the object is in France, it will be taken to an aviation testing facility in southern France for analysis, the French Defense ministry said in a statement on Thursday evening. The facility often works with the French aviation safety bureau, known as BEA, in investigating accidents and incidents, the statement said, without saying when the object would arrive.
法国国防部周四晚间发表声明说，碎片到达法国之后，会被运到法国南部的航空检测机构进行分析。声明称该机构经常与法国航空安全机关BEA联合调查事件和事故，但没有说碎片何时会到达。
American investigators have concluded, based on photographs and videos, that the object that washed up on Réunion, a remote French island off the coast of Madagascar, came from a Boeing 777, and Flight 370 is the only Boeing 777 known to be missing.
美国研究人员根据照片和录像得出结论，称冲上留尼旺岛的这块碎片来自一架波音777客机，而马航MH370是唯一报告失踪的波音777客机。留尼旺岛是法国的一个遥远岛屿，位于马达加斯加以东海域。
Still, government officials and families of passengers lost on the flight, which vanished in March 2014 with 239 people aboard, responded more warily on Thursday to the discovery in Réunion, reluctant to fan hopes after more than a year of fruitless searching and false rumors.
不过，对于本周四在留尼旺的发现，政府官员以及随MH370航班失踪的乘客家属，反应比较谨慎。该客机在2014年3月失联，239名机上人员也随之失踪。一年多来，对MH370的搜索毫无结果，关于它的传言一再破灭，因此他们不愿抱太大希望。
Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss of Australia, whose country has led the search for the missing jet, said in Sydney that the discovery of the object thousands of miles from the search area was “a very significant development.” He said investigators were “seeking to get assurance about what has been found and whether it is indeed linked to the disappearance of MH 370.”
澳大利亚主导了寻找这架失踪客机的行动，该国副总理沃伦·特拉斯(Warren Truss)在悉尼表示，这块碎片在搜索区域的数千英里之外被发现是“一个非常重大的进展”。他说，调查人员正在“试图确认这块东西的信息，以及它是否真的与MH370的失踪有联系。”
But he cautioned, “It is too early to make that judgment.”
但他警告说，“目前下结论还为时太早。”
Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia said in a statement that his government was sending teams to Réunion and to France to examine the object and meet with French aviation safety officials.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)在一份声明中说，该国政府会派遣团队到留尼旺和法国，检查这块碎片，并与法国航空安全官员会面。
“We have had many false alarms before, but for the sake of the families who have lost loved ones, and suffered such heartbreaking uncertainty, I pray that we will find out the truth, so that they may have closure and peace,” Mr. Najib said in the statement. “I promise the families of those lost that whatever happens, we will not give up.”
“之前我们获得了很多假警报，但是为了那些失去亲人、承受了这种令人心碎的不确定性的家庭，我祈祷我们会找出真相，让他们可以画上句号，获得内心的平静，”纳吉布在声明中说。“我向那些失去亲人的家庭保证，无论发生了什么，我们都不会放弃。”
The object, reported to be about 8 feet long and 3 feet wide, was discovered by workers cleaning a beach on the island, which is some 2,300 miles from the area off Western Australia where the search for wreckage from Flight 370 is now focused.
这块碎片据称大约8英尺长，3英尺宽，它是清理海滩的工人发现的，那里与搜索人员正在西澳大利亚州邻近海域寻找残骸的重点区域，相隔2300英里。
Australian officials said that the search in that area would continue, and that it was possible that ocean currents and winds could have carried floating debris to Réunion from there.
澳大利亚官员说，在该区域的搜索仍将继续，洋流和风确实有可能会把那里的漂浮物带到留尼旺。
The French Justice Ministry and the Réunion authorities said in a joint statement on Thursday that “at this stage, the origin of the debris is not identified.”
法国司法部和留尼旺岛当局本周四在一份联合声明中说，“目前尚未确定碎片的来源。”
The Paris prosecutor’s office, which has opened an inquiry into the plane crash because four French citizens were on board, said on Thursday that the eastern shore of Réunion, where the object was found and where ocean flotsam often washes up, was being searched by boat and by police helicopter for other possible traces of aircraft wreckage, but nothing had been found by nightfall.
这块碎片是在留尼旺岛东部海滩被发现的，经常有海洋漂浮物被冲到那里，巴黎检察官办公室本周四表示，当地正在使用船只和警用直升机搜索飞机残骸，但天黑前没有发现其他东西。巴黎检方已经就MH370坠毁开启了一宗调查，因为机上有四名法国公民。
The police recovered what appeared to be the “remains” of a suitcase or sports bag, but the prosecutor’s office cautioned that it could have come from anywhere and might have nothing to do with Flight 370.
警方找到了似乎是手提箱或运动包的一个“残骸”，但检察官办公室警告说，它可能来自任何地方，与MH370可能没有关系。
Mr. Truss said that scientists were examining photographs of barnacles on the aircraft component to estimate how long it had been in the ocean.
特拉斯说，科学家们正在查看这块飞机碎片上的附着物的照片，从而估算它在海洋中停留的时间。
If it is authenticated as part of the missing jet, the object’s discovery could substantially change some thinking about the mystery of Flight 370, both because of where and when it was found and because of its condition.
如果它被证实是MH370的一部分，那这块碎片的发现可能会极大地改变人们对马航MH370之谜的一些想法，原因既在于发现它的位置和时间，也在于它的受损状况。
One of the possibilities that haunted the search and rescue operation for Flight 370 in the weeks after it vanished was the chance that the plane might have landed largely intact on the water somewhere, and that passengers might have escaped onto the plane’s life rafts, only to perish because searchers were initially looking in waters thousands of miles away from where experts now believe the aircraft ended up.
马航MH370失联后的数周里，搜索和救援行动遭遇的一种可能性是，这架飞机可能基本完好地降落在海面上的某个地方，而乘客可能已经利用飞机上的救生筏逃生，然而因为最初搜索的水域，与专家现在认为的坠落地点相距数千里之远，他们都丧生了。
But Peter Marosszeky, a prominent Australian aircraft engineer and executive who advised Boeing on the development of the 777 jet, said that the severe damage visible on the object pointed to a powerful impact with the ocean.
但澳大利亚知名飞机工程师和高管彼得·马罗斯泽基(Peter Marosszeky)表示，这块碎片有严重受损的痕迹，显示飞机可能剧烈撞击过海面。马罗斯泽基曾为波音公司研发波音777飞机提供建议。
“Looking at the part, just the photo, suggests the part separated from the aircraft violently,” Mr. Marosszeky said in a telephone interview on Thursday. “Looking at the part, it’s pretty clear the aircraft didn’t survive, it was completely destroyed.”
“这块碎片的照片显示，它是从飞机上剧烈地撕裂下来的，”马罗斯泽基周四在接受电话采访时说。“看看这个碎片，飞机明显无法幸免，它遭到了彻底损毁。”
Mr. Marosszeky also predicted that French officials would be able to identify the component fairly quickly by a stainless steel plate that should be attached to it, providing considerable identifying information. Such plates are “normally attached to a fairly robust part” and are unlikely to dislodge even in a very violent impact, he said.
马罗斯泽基还预测，法国官员能够相当快速地识别该部件，因为上面镶的不锈钢铭牌应该可以提供相当有用的识别信息。他说这块铭牌“通常镶在一个相当稳固的部件上”，即便遭受非常猛烈的撞击，也不太可能脱落。
Joe Hattley, a spokesman for Australia’s transportation safety bureau, cautioned against jumping to any conclusions, for the sake of family members of those aboard the jet.
澳大利亚运输安全局发言人乔·哈特利(Joe Hattley)告诫称，为了机上人员的家属着想，不应该妄下结论。
“We have had lots of debris reported to us,” Mr. Hattley said. “This one is more promising. Any piece of information is good information, but I am mindful of the next of kin and how difficult this could be for them.”
“汇报给我们的碎片有很多，”哈特利说。“这一块可能性较大。任何信息都是好事，但我心里想的是他们的近亲，这对他们来说可能很艰难。”
Jiang Hui, a telecommunications engineer in Beijing whose mother was on Flight 370, said that relatives were treating the find on Réunion with caution.
北京的通讯工程师姜辉的母亲就在MH370航班上。他说，亲戚们目前对留尼旺岛上的发现态度谨慎。
“We’ve often had these reports that are overstated or incorrect, saying they’ve found something,” he said on Thursday. “After more than a year of this, our hearts are broken, and after last night’s news, a lot of family members were really agitated.”
“我们经常会看到这些夸大或不实的报道，说找到了什么，”他在周四当天说。“事情过去一年多了，我们的心都碎了，看到昨天晚上的新闻后，很多家人真的很激动。”
Flight 370 was on its way to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur when it disappeared in the early hours of March 8, 2014, and most of its passengers were Chinese. Hong Lei, a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that the government in Beijing was paying close attention to the news, but he offered no other details.
2014年3月8日凌晨，MH370航班在从吉隆坡飞往北京的途中消失。机上大部分乘客是中国人。中国外交部发言人洪磊称，中国政府密切关注相关消息，但他未给出其他细节。
“We have taken note of the report, and further verification is being conducted with relevant countries,” Mr. Hong said in a statement published on the ministry’s website. “The Chinese side will follow closely how this plays out and properly handle relevant follow-up matters.”
“我们注意到有关报道，并正抓紧向有关国家进一步了解核实情况，”洪磊在刊登在外交部网站上的一则声明中说。“中方将密切关注事件进展，妥善做好相关后续工作。”
Investigators have concluded, based on radar data and satellite signals from the plane, that it veered off course and flew on for hours to the west and then south, eventually running out of fuel and crashing somewhere in a deep, empty stretch of the Indian Ocean off Western Australia.
根据来自飞机的雷达数据和卫星信号，调查人员断定，飞机偏离航线，向西飞行了数小时，然后又向南，最终耗尽燃油，在某个位置坠入了西澳大利亚附近空旷的印度洋深海区。
Paul Kennedy, the search director for Fugro Survey, a division of a Dutch company hired by Australia to conduct the seabed search for the plane, said the work in the search zone was continuing as usual.
澳大利亚聘请了荷兰公司辉固调查(Fugro Survey)在海底搜寻飞机。该公司的搜索工作负责人保罗·肯尼迪(Paul Kennedy)称，该搜索区的工作仍在照常进行。
“There’s no substantial change to where we are looking,” Mr. Kennedy said. “We’ve just got to all be patient right now. And fingers crossed.”
“对我们的搜索地区没有太大影响，”肯尼迪说。“我们现在只需要有耐心，并祈求好运。”