MOSCOW — Prosecutors in the Netherlands revealed on Tuesday that they had found what could be pieces of a Russian-made surface-to-air missile system in eastern Ukraine, in the area of the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17.
莫斯科——荷兰检察官本周二透露，他们已经在乌克兰东部马航MH17航班被击落的地区发现了一些碎片，可能属于俄罗斯制造的地对空导弹。
The announcement brings the methodical, slow-moving investigation of the crash closer to the version that burst into public view almost immediately last summer after the plane exploded. That version blamed a surface-to-air missile.
对MH17坠落的调查在有条不紊地缓慢进行之中，从本周二的声明来看，事件原因更加接近于“它被一枚地对空导弹击中”的说法。该飞机去年夏天爆炸之后，这个说法几乎立刻就进入了公众视野。
It does not, though, assign blame to either the Ukrainian soldiers or the Russian-backed rebels fighting a war in the area. Nor does it blame the Russians.
不过这份声明并没有指责在该地区开战的乌克兰士兵和俄罗斯支持的反政府武装分子，也没有把事情归咎于俄罗斯。
The revelation is significant as the first from Dutch investigators to link physical evidence with a specific type of missile system, a Buk surface-to-air system.
这份声明的意义在于，荷兰调查人员首次把物证和一种特定类型的导弹系统联系起来，那就是Buk地对空导弹。
If confirmed, their discovery could prove embarrassing for Russia, as it would rule out an air-to-air missile strike by a Ukrainian fighter jet as the cause of the disaster, which was the version promulgated by the Russian Defense Ministry soon after the crash.
如果这个发现得到证实，俄罗斯可能会处在很尴尬的境地，因为这会排除乌克兰战斗机发射空对空导弹造成这起空难的可能性。在该客机坠毁后不久，俄罗斯国防部提出了这种说法。
Dutch investigators had said in the fall that damage to the fuselage was consistent with the impact of fast-moving or “high energy” shrapnel from a missile, without elaborating on the type.
荷兰调查人员说，飞机机身的受损状况，与导弹快速移动的“高能量”弹片造成的冲击是一致的，但他们没有具体指明类型。
The plane was flying from Amsterdam to the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur, on July 17, 2014, when it broke up over rebel territory in eastern Ukraine, killing all 298 people on board, most of them citizens of the Netherlands.
2014年7月17日，这架飞机从阿姆斯特丹飞往马来西亚首都吉隆坡时，在乌克兰东部叛军控制的地区失事，机上298人全部遇难，其中大多是荷兰公民。
The investigators said the parts could help determine not only what brought down the jetliner, but also who was responsible. But they also cautioned that it was too early to draw a direct “causal connection” between the discovery of the parts and the downing of the plane.
调查人员说，这些碎片有助于确定客机是被什么击落的，以及这是谁的责任。但他们也警告说，要在碎片的发现和飞机被击落之间，建立直接的“因果关系”，现在还为时过早。
“These parts have been secured during a previous recovery mission in eastern Ukraine and are in possession of the criminal investigation team and the Dutch Safety Board,” the investigators said in a statement. “The parts are of particular interest to the criminal investigation as they can possibly provide more information about who was involved in the crash of MH17.”
“这些碎片是之前在乌克兰东部开展的搜寻工作中找到的，现在掌握在刑事调查团队和荷兰安全委员会(Dutch Safety Board)手中，”调查人员在声明中说。“该些碎片对刑事调查工作很有帮助，因为它们可以就MH17坠毁的肇事者提供更多信息。”
Accusations have swirled over who shot down the plane. In the West, the general explanation is that separatists fired a Russian-supplied Buk missile at the Boeing, mistaking it for a Ukrainian military airplane.
对于是谁击落了飞机，各方指责的对象不同。在西方，通常的解释是：分裂分子误以为这架波音客机是乌克兰军用飞机，用俄罗斯提供的“Buk”导弹击落了它。
Russia has protested against the Dutch investigation, and on Monday it announced that officials would now inspect imports of Dutch tulips and other flowers to Russia more carefully.
俄罗斯对荷兰的调查表达了抗议。本周一，俄罗斯宣布他们现在要更加仔细地检查荷兰出口到俄罗斯的郁金香等花卉。
On Monday, a day before the latest revelation, Maria Zakharova, a spokeswoman for Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, called Western accounts of the plane’s downing speculative and, because they lacked scientific evidence, no better than “augury with coffee grounds.”
本周一，也就是这份最新声明发布的前一天，俄罗斯外交部发言人玛利亚·扎哈罗娃(Maria Zakharova)称，西方对这架飞机坠落的说法是推测性的，缺乏科学的证据，比“用咖啡渣占卜”强不了多少。
Separatists had shot down a dozen or so military aircraft in the same airspace in the preceding weeks.
在那之前的数周时间里，分裂分子已在同一空域击落了十多架军用飞机。
The rebels deny any role in the downing of the plane, and deny ever possessing a functioning Buk missile launcher that could reach the cruising altitude of a jetliner, although Associated Press reporters saw one such system rumbling down a road in rebel territory just a few hours before the Malaysia Airlines crash.
叛乱分子否认与飞机被击落有任何牵连，并称从未拥有过一台运转正常，且发射高度能达到喷气式客机巡航高度的Buk导弹发射器。但就在马航飞机坠毁的几小时前，美联社记者看到一台这样的系统，轰隆隆地驶过了叛乱分子控制地区的一条公路。
The Russian manufacturer of the Buk system, the Almaz-Antey consortium, said in June that Flight 17 had been downed by an older version of the Buk missile that is in Ukraine’s arsenal, but not Russia’s.
Buk系统的俄罗斯制造商阿尔玛兹-安泰(Almaz-Antey)财团曾在6月表示，击落马航MH17航班的是一种较早版本的Buk导弹，并表示乌克兰的武器库中有这种导弹，俄罗斯没有。
The Dutch statement on Tuesday hinted that the possible missile system parts could point to one or another country’s arsenal in helping to assign blame, but provided no clues.
荷兰周二发表的声明暗示，可疑导弹系统的部件可能会指向某个国家的武器库，进而帮助确定责任，但声明中并未给出线索。
Wim de Bruin, a spokesman for the Dutch prosecutor’s office, said a Dutch-led investigative team had retrieved the possible antiaircraft system parts in eastern Ukraine on one of several trips to the area. He declined to say whether Russian-backed separatists had been informed of the discovery at the time, or how the pieces had been removed from rebel territory.
荷兰检察官办公室的发言人维姆·德布鲁因(Wim de Bruin)说，以荷兰为首的调查小组多次前往乌克兰东部，并在其中一次找到了疑似防空系统部件。他拒绝透露当时是否就此事通知了俄罗斯支持的分裂分子，以及是如何将那些碎片带出叛乱分子控制的地区的。