SYDNEY, Australia — The Australian authorities coordinating the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 said Wednesday that they had begun analyzing two pieces of debris suspected to be from the missing plane and that a third piece recently found in South Africa would also be examined.
澳大利亚悉尼——周三，协调搜寻马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH370航班的澳大利亚当局表示，已经开始分析疑似属于失踪飞机的两块残骸，并称还将对最近在南非发现的另一块残骸进行检测。
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau said the Malaysian government was working with officials in South Africa to arrange for examination of the debris found there this week, which was “suspected to be the cowling from an engine.” Malaysia’s transport minister, Liow Tiong Lai, said Tuesday on Twitter that analysis was needed to determine whether the part, which appeared to bear a partial logo from the engine maker Rolls-Royce, came from Flight 370.
澳大利亚运输安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)称，马来西亚政府正在与南非官方合作，对本周在那里发现的残骸安排监测。那块残骸“可能是发动机上的整流罩”。马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)周二在Twitter上表示，需要通过分析来确定残骸是否来自MH370航班。那块残骸上似乎印有发动机生产商罗尔斯-罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)的标识，但不完整。
Two other pieces of debris, both found in Mozambique in recent weeks, arrived in Australia on Sunday, and experts have begun analyzing them, the Australian officials said Wednesday in a weekly update on the search for the Boeing 777.
另外两块残骸是最近几周在莫桑比克发现的。澳大利亚官方在就这架波音777举行的每周动态通报中表示，它们已于周日抵达澳大利亚，专家已经开始对其进行分析。
So far, only one piece of wreckage — a wing part called a flaperon, found in July on Réunion, a French island east of Madagascar — has been confirmed to be from Flight 370, which disappeared on March 8, 2014, with 239 people aboard. The plane disappeared en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and is believed to have veered off course for reasons unknown, flown south for several hours and crashed into the southern Indian Ocean.
迄今为止只有一块残骸被证实来自MH370航班。那块残骸是机翼的组成部分，叫襟副翼。MH370航班于2014年3月8日失踪，机上载有239人。飞机是在从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京的途中失踪的。据信，飞机因未知原因偏离了航线，并在向南飞行了几小时后坠入南印度洋。
Analysts have said that ocean currents could have carried debris from the plane from there to Mozambique, as they apparently carried the flaperon to Réunion. Four search vessels have been scouring the seabed off the remote southwestern coast of Australia for wreckage from the plane, but none has yet been found there.
分析人士称，洋流可能把残骸从南印度洋带到了莫桑比克，因为那块襟副翼似乎也是被洋流冲到留尼旺岛的。在澳大利亚偏远的西南沿海，四艘搜寻船一直在海底搜寻MH370航班的残骸，但一块都没找着。