Early this year, Bobby Jindal, the governor of Louisiana, made headlines by telling his fellow Republicans that they needed to stop being the “stupid party.” Unfortunately, Mr. Jindal failed to offer any constructive suggestions about how they might do that. And, in the months that followed, he himself proceeded to say and do a number of things that were, shall we say, not especially smart.
路易斯安那州州长博比·金达尔(Bobby Jindal)于今年年初登上了头条新闻，因为他对共和党同仁们说，这个政党不能老是这么“愚蠢”下去。遗憾的是，金达尔没有提出任何建设性意见，没有提示他们应该做些什么。而且在接下来几个月里，他继续说并做一些可以说不是特别聪明的事情。
Nonetheless, Republicans did follow his advice. In recent months, the G.O.P. seems to have transitioned from being the stupid party to being the crazy party.
尽管如此，共和党人的确听从了他的劝告。最近几个月，共和党似乎已经从愚蠢的政党转变为疯狂的政党了。
I know, I’m being shrill. But as it grows increasingly hard to see how, in the face of Republican hysteria over health reform, we can avoid a government shutdown — and maybe the even more frightening prospect of a debt default — the time for euphemism is past.
我知道，我有些尖刻。但是在共和党对医疗改革的歇斯底里面前，我们越来越觉得政府停摆是件很难避免的事了——甚或是债务违约这个更为可怕的前景——委婉表达的时候已经过去了。
It helps, I think, to understand just how unprecedented today’s political climate really is.
我觉得，这有助于理解当今的政治气候实际上是多么新奇。
Divided government in itself isn’t unusual and is, in fact, more common than not. Since World War II, there have been 35 Congresses, and in only 13 of those cases did the president’s party fully control the legislature.
政府内部出现分歧并不是罕见的事情，实际上，这种情况非常普遍。自二战以来，美国共有35届国会，其中只有13届国会中，总统所在政党完全控制了该立法机构。
Nonetheless, the United States government continued to function. Most of the time divided government led to compromise; sometimes to stalemate. Nobody even considered the possibility that a party might try to achieve its agenda, not through the constitutional process, but through blackmail — by threatening to bring the federal government, and maybe the whole economy, to its knees unless its demands were met.
尽管如此，美国政府继续运转。大部分时间，存在分歧的政府都会达成妥协；偶尔陷入僵局。但谁也想不到，一个政党为了达到自己的目的，居然会不通过宪法程序，直接去讹诈对方——威胁对方如果不满足它的要求，就摧毁联邦政府，甚至整个经济。
True, there was the government shutdown of 1995. But this was widely recognized after the fact as both an outrage and a mistake. And that confrontation came just after a sweeping Republican victory in the midterm elections, allowing the G.O.P. to make the case that it had a popular mandate to challenge what it imagined to be a crippled, lame-duck president.
的确，1995年就出现了政府停摆的情况。但事后，人们广泛认为这是一种侮辱，是一个错误。而那次冲突发生在共和党中期选举大获全胜之后，让该党以为它手握大众授权，能够去挑战被幻想为有缺陷的“跛脚鸭”的总统。
Today, by contrast, Republicans are coming off an election in which they failed to retake the presidency despite a weak economy, failed to retake the Senate even though far more Democratic than Republican seats were at risk, and held the House only through a combination of gerrymandering and the vagaries of districting. Democrats actually won the popular ballot for the House by 1.4 million votes. This is not a party that, by any conceivable standard of legitimacy, has the right to make extreme demands on the president.
如今的情况正好相反，尽管经济低迷，共和党人还是没能在选举中重获总统宝座，尽管席位不稳的民主党人比共和党人多，共和党还是没能重新控制参议院，而对众议院的控制也是通过不公正的、怪异的选区划分获得的。实际上，民主党人以140万张选票的优势赢得了众议院普选。无论依据什么合理性标准，这个政党都没资格对总统提出极端要求。
Yet, at the moment, it seems highly likely that the Republican Party will refuse to fund the government, forcing a shutdown at the beginning of next month, unless President Obama dismantles the health reform that is the signature achievement of his presidency. Republican leaders realize that this is a bad idea, but, until recently, their notion of preaching moderation was to urge party radicals not to hold America hostage over the federal budget so they could wait a few weeks and hold it hostage over the debt ceiling instead. Now they’ve given up even on that delaying tactic. The latest news is that John Boehner, the speaker of the House, has abandoned his efforts to craft a face-saving climbdown on the budget, which means that we’re all set for shutdown, possibly followed by debt crisis.
然而，共和党现在很有可能拒绝为政府提供资金，迫使政府在下个月初停摆，除非奥巴马总统废除医改——奥巴马执政时期的标志性成就。共和党领导人认识到，这是一个坏主意，但直到最近，他们宣传的温和理念还是敦促党内激进分子不要在联邦预算问题上绑架美国，因为他们过几周后要在债务上限的问题上绑架美国。如今，他们甚至已经放弃那种拖延策略。最新的消息是，众议院议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)已经放弃挽回颜面的努力，不再就预算进行妥协，这意味着我们都已经做好了停摆的准备，接下来可能还会出现债务危机。
How did we get here?
我们是怎么走到这一步的呢？
Some pundits insist, even now, that this is somehow Mr. Obama’s fault. Why can’t he sit down with Mr. Boehner the way Ronald Reagan used to sit down with Tip O’Neill? But O’Neill didn’t lead a party whose base demanded that he shut down the government unless Reagan revoked his tax cuts, and O’Neill didn’t face a caucus prepared to depose him as speaker at the first hint of compromise.
有些专家即使到现在还坚持认为这是奥巴马的错。他为什么不能像罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)跟蒂普·奥尼尔(Tip O’Neill)那样，与博纳一起坐下来谈谈呢？但是奥尼尔领导的党派大众并没有提出，如果里根不取消减税政策就要关闭政府，奥尼尔背后那个党团也不会随时准备着，看他稍微表示一点妥协的意愿就打算弹劾他。
No, this story is all about the G.O.P. First came the southern strategy, in which the Republican elite cynically exploited racial backlash to promote economic goals, mainly low taxes for rich people and deregulation. Over time, this gradually morphed into what we might call the crazy strategy, in which the elite turned to exploiting the paranoia that has always been a factor in American politics — Hillary killed Vince Foster! Obama was born in Kenya! Death panels! — to promote the same goals.
不是这样的，这完全是共和党的错。首先是南方政策，共和党精英无所顾忌地利用激进的反对力量来宣传经济目标，主要是对富人征收低税并减少管制。渐渐地，这演变成了我们也许可以称之为疯狂的政策，这些精英开始转而利用一直都存在于美国政治中的妄想症来推进同样的目标——希拉里(Hillary)杀死了文斯·福斯特(Vince Foster)！奥巴马出生在肯尼亚！“死亡委员会”(death panels)！
But now we’re in a third stage, where the elite has lost control of the Frankenstein-like monster it created.
但是我们现在处在第三个阶段，精英们对自己造出来的这只弗兰肯斯坦式怪兽已经失去控制。
So now we get to witness the hilarious spectacle of Karl Rove in The Wall Street Journal, pleading with Republicans to recognize the reality that Obamacare can’t be defunded. Why hilarious? Because Mr. Rove and his colleagues have spent decades trying to ensure that the Republican base lives in an alternate reality defined by Rush Limbaugh and Fox News. Can we say “hoist with their own petard”?
所以现在我们看到了这样一幅可笑至极的情景：《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)的卡尔·罗夫(Karl Rove)提请共和党人注意，现实是奥巴马医改政策不能撤资。为什么说可笑至极呢？因为这几十年来，罗夫及其同事一直在试图确保让共和党大众生活在一个由拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)和Fox新闻(Fox News)构建的另类现实中。我们能说这是“搬起石头砸自己的脚”吗？
Of course, the coming confrontations are likely to damage America as a whole, not just the Republican brand. But, you know, this political moment of truth was going to happen sooner or later. We might as well have it now.
当然，即将发生的对峙可能会给整个美国造成破坏，而不仅仅是共和党的名声。但是，这个政治真相曝光的时刻迟早都会到来。现在就挑明了也挺好。