Last month in a small town in southern China, doctors removed the lungs from an 18-year-old who had just died and placed them in a shipping box. It was a rare moment in a country of nearly 1.4 billion people where hundreds of thousands are waiting for organ transplants, but where officials say only about 1,700 donors provided organs for nonfamily members last year.
上月，在中国南方的一座小城，医生切除了一位刚刚去世的18岁病人的肺部，放进一个装运箱里。这对中国来说非常难得。中国人口有近14亿、其中数十万人在等待器官移植，但官方表示，去年只有约1700名捐赠者为非家族成员捐献器官。
The lungs safely stowed, the medical team began the 150-mile drive from the town, Cenxi in Guangxi Province, to an airport in Guangzhou to fly to its destination. There, at Wuxi People’s Hospital near Shanghai, a patient was waiting for a double lung transplant.
切除的肺部安放好后，医疗队就从广西岑溪市驱车290公里前往广州机场，再飞往目的地。目的地是上海附近的无锡市人民医院，一名病人在那里等待双肺移植手术。
But this is what the highway looked like as they set off in the early morning of Oct. 4, during the weeklong National Day holiday, with cars blocking even the emergency lane. It illustrates the transport difficulties that have exacerbated the acute shortage of organs for transplant:
他们在10月4日凌晨出发，但是在这为期一周的国庆长假期间，高速公路出现了拥堵，甚至紧急车道也不例外。这说明运输困难加剧了移植器官的严重短缺：
The drive took far longer than it should have. The team did not arrive at the airport until 8:05 a.m., for a flight that was scheduled to depart at 8:20 a.m. Employees at the carrier, China Southern, refused to let the team board — even knowing that the doctors were carrying the lungs.
这趟车程的时长远超正常情况。飞机原定起飞时间为上午8点20分，但医疗队直到上午8点05分才到达机场。中国南方航空的职员拒绝让医疗队登机——尽管他们知道医生们带着要移植的肺部。
They could not board even though doctors had informed the airline the previous day about the special transport, said Dr. Chen Jingyu, one of China’s leading lung transplant surgeons who was waiting at Wuxi, and even though the flight was delayed and did not take off until much later that morning. The team was able to switch to another commercial flight that morning, but the frustration was immense, Dr. Chen said.
中国在肺移植领域的著名外科医师陈静瑜当时守候在无锡，他事后表示，就此次特别运输个案，医生们已提前一天通知南航，而且当天上午航班延误，迟迟没有起飞。虽说如此，他们仍然未能登机。他说，尽管医疗队当天上午成功换到另一趟商业航班，却感到无比沮丧。
China Southern apologized, and Dr. Chen said the publicity had helped improve the attitude of Chinese airlines toward medical teams transporting organs. But it is still a nerve-rattling race against time, nearly every time.
南方航空已就此事道歉，而陈静瑜说，相关的报道有助于改善中国航空公司对于医疗队运送器官的态度。但几乎每一次的器官运送仍是一场与时间的紧张赛跑。
“Every minute and every second count,” Dr. Chen said in a post on his personal WeChat account.
“每分每秒都很重要，” 陈静瑜在其个人微信账号上发文说。
“Lungs should be transplanted within nine hours,” he told Xinhua Daily, based in Jiangsu Province. “Our team went all out and did the right lung 11 hours later and the left one 13 later. That set a record for China.”
“肺取下到医院要九个多小时，这己是肺保存时间的极限了，”他告诉总部在江苏省的《新华日报》。“我们团队全力以赴，右、左肺冷缺血时间分别为11、13小时。如此长的肺冷缺血时间是国内最新纪录。”
This time, the surgeons made it. But often they fail, through no fault of their own.Dr. Chen estimates that about 300 lungs were donated across China in the first nine months of this year, of which only half were transplanted. The rest were discarded because of poor quality, including 50 to 60 that had deteriorated during delays in transport, Dr. Chen said. “They are wasted en route,” he said in an interview.
这一次，医生们成功了。但他们经常失败，却并不是因为自己犯了错。陈静瑜估计，今年头九个月里，中国各地有约300个捐赠的肺源，其中只有一半接受了移植。他称，其余的因质量不佳遭到放弃，其中包括五六十个在运输延误过程中衰竭。“很多都在路上浪费了，”他在接受采访时说。
By comparison, in the United States, in the first eight months of this year, 1,344 donors gave lungs, and 1,371 lungs were transplanted, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing, a nonprofit based in Virginia that coordinates organ procurement and distribution.
相比之下，根据总部设在美国弗吉尼亚州的非营利组织器官共享联合网络(United Network for Organ Sharing)提供的数据，在今年头八个月里，美国有1344名肺捐赠者，移植肺量达1371个。该机构负责协调全美器官的获取和配送工作。
Dr. Chen is calling for China to set up a system to transport donated organs quickly and safely. He has written twice to the National People’s Congress, where he is a delegate, urging the establishment of fast-track channels for organs, to be supported by the Public Security Bureau, local officials, airlines and railways, even shipping companies.
陈静瑜呼吁中国建立一个能够快速、安全地运送捐赠器官的系统。作为全国人大代表，他曾两次写信，呼吁为器官移植开辟转运绿色通道，由公安局、地方官员、航空公司、铁路系统，乃至货运公司提供支援。
Unlike many developed countries, China does not have dedicated organ transport systems, and doctors must rely on commercial transportation. Not only are bottlenecks on the ground common, but civilian flight delays are among the worst in the world, with 80 percent of China’s airspace restricted to military uses.
与许多发达国家相比，中国还没有专门的器官运输系统，医生必须依靠商业运输。不仅地面交通易堵塞，民用航班延误的状况也属全球最遭之列，有80%的中国空域归军方使用。
Organ quality issues affect transplants in other countries, too, but China’s high rate of waste appears to be unusual.
在其他国家，器官质量问题也一样影响到移植，但中国的损耗程度似乎高得不同寻常。
In the United States, about 8 percent of lungs donated in 2013 were unused, said Joel Newman, a spokesman for the United Network for Organ Sharing. The most common reasons, he wrote in an email, are “either the condition of the organ is found to be unsuitable for the recipient, or the intended recipient’s medical condition changes in such a way that that person can’t be transplanted and another recipient can’t be located in time.”
器官共享联合网络的发言人乔尔·纽曼(Joel Newman)表示，美国在2013年有约8％的捐赠肺未得到使用。他在电子邮件中写道，最常见的原因“要么是发现器官的情况不适合受赠者，要么是预期受赠者的身体条件改变了，导致不能接受移植，而又不能及时找到其他受赠者”。
Dr. Chen said in the interview: “We urgently need a national system that the Health Commission, the Transport Ministry, the China Civil Aviation Administration all take part in.” He added: “Air traffic control should give priority to planes that are carrying organs.”
陈静瑜在接受采访时说：“我们迫切需要一个全国性的系统，要有卫计委、交通运输部和民航局都参与在里面。”他还说：“解除空中管制后，让携带移植器官的飞机优先起飞。”
“Of course, they need to do this,” said Cong Yali, a professor of medical ethics at Peking University in Beijing, in an interview. “In the United States, they use things like helicopters. In China, they just haven’t worked it out well.”
“当然，他们需要做到这一点，”北京大学医学伦理学教授丛亚丽在接受采访时说。“在美国，他们使用直升机。在中国，他们还没有想出好办法。”
After Dr. Chen’s second appeal to the National People’s Congress, he said he received a vaguely worded response from the China Civil Aviation Administration. It said it supported the idea but noted that any plan would need the cooperation of hospitals, airports, airlines and air traffic control personnel. It did not give a timetable for implementation.
在陈静瑜第二次向全国人大建言之后，他说自己收到了来自中国民用航空局的措辞含糊的回应。文中称支持这个想法，但指出任何计划均需医院、机场、航空公司和空中交通管制人员的合作。其中没有给出实施的时间表。
Some changes are under way, however. Health Commission officials are setting up a network to create a centralized organ pool and distribution system modeled on those in the United States. They are also trying to encourage citizens to donate their organs after death. In addition to the 1,700 deceased donors who contributed about 5,000 organs to the common pool last year, an additional 2,000 to 2,500 organs were provided by living donors to relatives, according to Huang Jiefu, who leads the commission’s Human Organ Donation and Transplantation Committee.
不过，还是有一些变化在发生。卫计委的官员正在建立一个仿照美国的网络来采集和分配器官。他们还在努力鼓励国民逝世后捐献器官。中国人体器官捐献与移植委员会主任黄洁夫表示，去年有1700名死者向公共的器官库捐赠了约5000个器官，活体捐赠者向亲属提供了另外的2000到2500个器官。
A longstanding impediment to organ donations in China has been a cultural perception that it is unfilial not to keep one’s body intact after death as this is a gift from one’s parents.
在中国，一个文化问题一直阻碍了器官捐献：一个人的身体死后不完整就是不孝，因为身体发肤受之父母。
Despite fears that the announced shift in policy would depress the supply of organs, Mr. Huang said the number of organs donated had not declined. In the first nine months of 2015, he said, about 2,000 donors had provided about 6,000 organs to the common pool, while 2,000 more organs had been donated by relatives to their kin.
尽管有人担心政策的转变将抑制器官的供应，但黄洁夫表示捐献器官的人数并没有减少。在2015年首九个月，他说大约有2000个捐赠者提供了约6000个器官到公共器官库，而亲属又捐赠了另外的2000个器官。