Built more like a former professional basketball player than an elementary schoolteacher nearing retirement, the patient dropped a bagful of prescription medications on the table in the examining room and fell back into a chair. He couldn't remember what most of them were for.
这位病人身材魁梧，看上去不像一个快退休的小学老师，反倒像是个退役职业篮球球员。他把一大包处方药倒在诊室的桌子上，然后重重栽坐下来。他根本不记得大部分药物是干什么用的。
Several weeks earlier, he had seen a new doctor who'd prescribed several new drugs and spent much of the visit reciting a list of advice - lose weight, exercise more, stop smoking, eat more fruits and vegetables. Before he even arrived home, he realized he couldn't recall any of the details of what the doctor had said.
几周前，他有了一位新医生，为他开了数种新药，并把看诊的大部分时间用来重复一长串医嘱：要减肥、多运动、戒烟、多吃水果和蔬菜。还没到家，他就发现自己已经把医生说的话忘了大半。
"I felt like I was in a Charlie Brown cartoon," he said, recounting the visit with a laugh. "All I can remember the doctor saying was, 'Waw, waw-waw, waw-waw.' "
“我就好像身处查理·布朗（Charlie Brown， 即《史努比》的小主人——译注）的卡通片，”说起那次就诊的经历时他朗声笑起来，说：“只记得医生在那儿‘哇，哇哇，哇哇。’”
This patient is far from alone in his difficulty absorbing a fire hose of advice. Thanks to some dazzling advances in preventive medicine and public health, doctors in almost every specialty of medicine now have a panoply of proven preventive recommendations to keep their patients from getting sick. And as the number of validated interventions has grown, so has the pressure on doctors to remind their patients of all the now-standard advice in the course of a 15-minute office visit.
这位病人可不是唯一一个难以消化一大堆医嘱的人。由于预防医学和公共卫生领域一些令人眼花缭乱的进步，现在几乎每个科室的医生都有一整套证据确凿的预防性建议，来确保病人们别再生病。随着有效的干预措施增多，医生的压力也在增大，需要在15分钟的就诊时间里把所有这些如今已成为标准的建议灌输给病人。
Faced with an impossible task, some physicians have thrown up their hands and chosen to focus on only a couple of topics at each visit. Others have resorted to handing out typed lists of the recommendations for patients to read at home. But an increasing number of doctors, under mounting pressures from insurance companies and others to prove that they are delivering quality care, are simply scrambling to cover as many of the wellness recommendations as they can, piling on the dos and don'ts in what a colleague of mine once referred to as "the grand information dump."
面对这一不可能完成的任务，一些医生已经举手投降，每次就诊只专注于几个话题。另一些人采取的对策是发一些打印好的建议以供病人在家阅读。但越来越多的医生为了应付保险公司或其他方面的压力，证明自己在提供高质量的医疗服务，只能争分夺秒地给予尽可能多的健康建议，堆砌各种“该做什么不该做什么”的说法，我一位同事将之称为“大型信息垃圾场”。
In no other specialty is the problem as acute as in pediatrics, as two papers published this week in the journal Pediatrics underline. For children's doctors, the preventive pearls, which have been amassed in a hefty 648-page official guide titled "Bright Futures," include recommendations on using of car seats, wearing bicycle helmets, limiting television, eating more fruits and vegetables, cutting back on consumption of fruit juice and setting hot-water heaters at no more than 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
在儿科，这一问题尤其尖锐，本周《儿科医学杂志》(Pediatrics)发表的两篇文章正说明了这一点。这些珍贵的预防措施，积累成壮观的648页官方手册，名为《璀璨未来》(Bright Futures)，供儿科医生使用。其中包括了汽车儿童座椅的使用、佩戴自行车头盔、限制看电视时间、多吃水果和蔬菜、少喝市售果汁、热水器的水温不要超过120华氏度（约49摄氏度）。
If acted upon, all of these recommendations can prevent myriad injuries, even deaths, in children. But it's a humongous "if." Currently there is very little proof that simply telling patients and their families to do something, much less cramming all the recommendations into a 15-minute visit, will result in any behavioral changes at all.
如果全部照办，所有这些建议可以预防儿童的各类损伤甚至死亡。但是“如果”本身就是无穷无尽的。几乎没什么证据表明在15分钟的就诊时间内向儿童的父母和家人说明做某些事情能真正改变某些行为，何况这15分钟就诊时间里医生是在进行填鸭式的教育。
"If it were that easy, we wouldn't have the obesity epidemic we have now," said Dr. Robert Needlman, author of one of the articles and a professor of pediatrics at the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine. "But we keep serving up these recommendations one after another to our patient families, like waiters at a 10-course banquet.
“如果有那么容易，我们根本不会迎来目前这个肥胖年代。”说这话的是罗伯特·尼德曼医生(Robert Needlman)，他是上述其中一篇文章的作者之一，目前是凯斯西储大学(Case Western Reserve University)医学院的儿科教授。“但我们还是源源不断地向病人的家庭提供这些建议，活像正在上十道大菜的服务员。”
"It's great when you're flying a plane or doing heart surgery," Dr. Needlman added. "But there's not a lot of great evidence that checklists are the way to go if you are trying to develop a relationship with parents around shared concern for a child."
“如果你是在开飞机或者在做心脏手术，也许事无巨细的建议很好，”尼德曼医生进一步说：“但是如果你试图为家长关注儿童建立更多纽带，没有什么证据表明这种备忘录式的方法管用。”
It may be that for certain recommendations, the message gets across best when it's presented less directly - a possibility suggested by the second Pediatrics paper, a study that looked at how much mothers altered their babies' diets after being counseled by pediatricians on healthy eating habits.
对于某些建议来说，也许表述起来不那么直截了当，信息反而传递得更有效——第二篇儿科文章表达了这样一种可能性，这一研究调查了妈妈在接受了儿科医生的健康饮食习惯建议后，能在多大程度上改变孩子的饮食。
For the study, one set of mothers received the usual advice culled from the "Bright Futures" manual, including giving single-grain, iron-fortified cereal when beginning solids, introducing new foods one at a time and limiting juice consumption. The second group of mothers received more detailed advice and were asked to serve two to four tablespoons of fruits and vegetables each day, never to feed from the jar but to use a spoon and dish, and to start each meal with vegetables. The last group was simply reminded, among other things, not to skip meals, to turn off the television while eating, to eat as a family and to make sure that they themselves ate five servings of fruits and vegetables daily.
在这一研究中，一组妈妈接受了《光辉未来》手册中提炼的一般建议，包括添加辅食要从单一谷物的铁强化米粉开始，每次只添加一种新食物，限制果汁摄入。第二组妈妈得到的信息更详细，要求每天喂食二到四匙水果和蔬菜，不要从罐子里吃而是用盘子和勺子，每餐都要从蔬菜吃起。最后一组妈妈得到的建议简单多了，只要求她们记得孩子三餐要规律，进食时关掉电视机，一家人一起吃饭，而她们本人要做到每天吃五份蔬菜水果。
After a year, the researchers found that it was the mothers who received guidance about their own eating habits who had made the most changes toward feeding their children a healthier diet.
一年后，研究者们发现，儿童饮食变得最健康的，是那些得到了关于自身饮食习惯建议的妈妈们。
"Doctors may have good intentions when they're doling out advice," said Dr. Gina M. French, lead author and an associate professor of pediatrics at the John A. Burns School of Medicine at the University of Hawaii. "But we have to come up with ways of giving that advice that actually make a difference for patients."
“医生给出建议的动机是善意的，”主要作者金娜·M·法兰奇博士(Gina M. French)说。她是夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)约翰柏恩医学院(John A. Burns School of Medicine)的儿科副教授，“但我们应该找到更合理的提供建议的方式，这样才能真的能给病人带来改变。”
Both Dr. French and Dr. Needlman believe that more work needs to be done on finding the best ways to relay advice to patients, even if such research results in eliminating certain topics altogether. "It may be that we just can't change certain things in our offices and that there are other places better suited to do so," Dr. French said.
法兰奇和尼德曼都相信，需要付出更多努力来探讨什么是向病人提供建议的最佳方式，哪怕研究结果认为根本不应提这些建议。“这可能是因为某些事情是我们无法在诊室里改变的，有更合适的地方做这事。”法兰奇博士说。
The goal, both doctors believe, would be to find the best combination and most efficient way of relaying recommendations. "Ideally a visit with the doctor is 15 minutes that can be used to build a very powerful relationship and transfer crucial information that will make our patients healthier," Dr. Needlman said.
两位医生相信，现在的目标是寻找出最佳的建议组合及最有效的传递建议的方式。“理想来说，15分钟的就诊应该用于建议牢固的关系，传递重要信息，令我们的病人更健康。”尼德曼说。
He added: "Because we have so little time, we have to be able to devote our time to the things that will make a difference."
他补充说：“我们的时间太少，必须用于能够创造改变的事情上。”