A child in Mississippi who was thought to have been cured of H.I.V. with aggressive drug treatment immediately after birth is now showing signs of infection with the virus, federal health officials announced Thursday — a serious setback to hopes for a cure for AIDS.
美国联邦卫生​​官员本周四宣布，密西西比州一个感染艾滋病毒(HIV)的孩子，由于在出生后立即采取了积极的药物治疗，曾被认为已经治愈，现在却正在显示出感染HIV的迹象——这对治愈艾滋病的希望是一次沉重打击。
The report in March 2013 that the child had apparently been cured raised the possibility that aggressive early treatment might be able to reverse infections in newborns — and perhaps even in newly infected adults. About 2.3 million people around the world were newly infected with H.I.V. in 2012, the last year for which figures were available; 260,000 were infants infected at birth or immediately afterward.
2013年3月的报告称这个孩子似乎已经痊愈，因此人们觉得，积极的早期治疗或许更有可能扭转新生儿的HIV感染——甚至对新感染HIV的成年人也是如此。2012年全球约有230万人新感染了HIV，其中26万是在出生时或出生不久后感染的婴儿，这是现有的最新数据。
So Thursday’s announcement was especially deflating. During a telephone news conference held by the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Hannah B. Gay, the pediatrician at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson who first put the child on large doses of antiretroviral drugs, said it was “like a punch in the gut.”
因此，本周四的消息是格外令人失望的。在美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)召开的电话新闻发布会上，汉娜·B·盖伊博士(Hannah B. Gay)说，这种感觉像是“肚子上捱了一记重拳”。盖伊是位于杰克逊的密西西比大学医学中心(University of Mississippi Medical Center)儿科医生，最初就是她对这个孩子使用了大剂量抗逆转录病毒药物。
With hopes raised by the Mississippi case, doctors had made plans for a worldwide clinical trial in which about 450 babies — chosen because their infected mothers had no testing or treatment before the births — would be put on the three-drug regimen called triple therapy.
在密西西比州那个案例带来的希望下，医生们计划了一次全球性的临床试验，将对约450名婴儿——之所以选中这些婴儿，是因为感染了HIV的母亲在生下他们之前，没有进行HIV测试或治疗——使用三种药物组成的“三重疗法”。
If those who were infected with H.I.V. showed no virus after 48 weeks of treatment, the plan was to stop their drugs and see if they had been cured before the virus had a chance to establish a reservoir of infected cells.
按照计划，如果感染了HIV的婴儿在经过48周的治疗后不再检出有HIV病毒，试验人员就会停止用药，看看他们是否已经赶在HIV建立起感染细胞的贮主之前实现了痊愈。
But not a single baby has yet been enrolled in the trial, and in light of the failure to cure the Mississippi baby, “We’ve got to go back and look at the trial’s design,” said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, a leading AIDS expert who is director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
但迄今还没有任何婴儿参加这个试验，而且由于密西西比州那个孩子未能治愈，“我们得回去检查一下试验的设计，”艾滋病领域知名专家、美国国家过敏症和传染病研究所(National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases)主任安东尼·S·弗契（Anthony S. Fauci)博士说。
Asked how he felt about Thursday’s announcement, he said: “It’s obviously disappointing, but I was not surprised. I’ve been chasing these reservoirs for the last 25 years, and I know this virus has a really uncanny way of hiding itself.”
当被问及如何看待本周四的消息时，他说：“这显然很令人失望，但我并不感到惊讶。因为过去25年里我一直在追踪这些贮主，我知道这种病毒隐藏自己的方式非同寻常。”
Before the Mississippi baby, only one other person had been considered cured of H.I.V. That was an adult, Timothy Brown, previously known as the anonymous “Berlin patient,” who had a transplant of blood stem cells to treat his leukemia after his bone marrow was wiped out with drugs and radiation. The new stem cells were from a matching donor who also had a relatively rare mutation that creates blood cells lacking the surface receptor that H.I.V. uses to enter the cell.
在密西西比婴儿之前，只有一个人被认为治愈了HIV。那是一个名叫蒂莫西·布朗(Timothy Brown)的成年人，曾用“柏林病人”来匿名指代；为了治疗白血病，在他的骨髓被药品和放疗损毁之后，他曾接受了造血干细胞移植。新的干细胞来自一名与他匹配的捐助者，此人拥有比较罕见的基因突变，血细胞中缺乏艾滋病毒用来进入细胞的表面受体。
Then last March, a second baby, born in Long Beach, Calif., appeared to have been cured after early and aggressive treatment. But doctors had been hesitant to declare that cure as definitively as they did in Mississippi case.
今年3月，第二个孩子经过早期积极的治疗后，似乎也获得了痊愈，这个孩子出生于加州长滩。不过医生们一直在犹豫，是否要和密西西比婴儿一样，宣布这个孩子已经彻底痊愈。
The mother in Mississippi had disappeared with her baby for several months after treatment began, and pediatricians assumed when they saw the baby again that it would be teeming with the virus. Instead, exhaustive tests found none in blood or tissue, and that remained true until several weeks ago when the virus was detected in the child’s blood during a routine office visit. By contrast, the California baby could not ethically be taken off antiretroviral drugs, which is the only sure test of whether the virus will rebound.
密西西比州婴儿在开始接受治疗之后，被其母亲带走失踪了几个月，儿科医生们以为，这个孩子再次出现在他们面前时，将会有严重的HIV感染。但详尽的测试表明，这个孩子的血液或组织里没有发现HIV病毒，这种情况一直持续到几周之前，他们在例行回访时，从孩子的血液中检测出了HIV病毒。与此形成对比的是，从伦理而言，那名加州婴儿不能停止使用抗逆转录病毒药物，而停止用药却是该病毒是否卷土重来的唯一可靠测试。
When the virus enters the body, it first invades the CD4 white blood cells and makes millions of copies of itself. It then starts entering lymph cells in the gut and elsewhere and uses its RNA core to make DNA mirror images of itself that then integrate themselves into the DNA of the cell, creating the reservoir.
HIV病毒进入人体后，首先入侵CD4白细胞，并制造出数百万个同样的病毒细胞。它们随后会进入腹部和其他部位的淋巴细胞，利用带有RNA的内核制作自身DNA的镜像，然后与淋巴细胞的DNA结合，形成贮主。
After that, even if antiretroviral drugs suppress the ability of any free-floating RNA to copy itself, the DNA persists, waiting to act as a template for new RNA if the drugs are ever stopped.
在这之后，即使抗逆转录病毒药物抑制了任何自由移动的RNA的自我复制能力，病毒的DNA仍在，它将在停止用药时充当新的RNA模板。
The Mississippi case stirred worldwide excitement last year when it was described in The New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Deborah Persaud, an associate professor at Johns Hopkins Children’s Center and the lead author of the report, said at the time that it was “proof of principle that we can cure H.I.V. infection if we can replicate this case.”
《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)去年报道密西西比的例子时，全世界都感到振奋。约翰·霍普金斯儿童中心(Johns Hopkins Children's Center)副教授德博拉·佩尔绍德(Deborah Persaud)博士是这篇报告的主要作者。他说，当时，这个例子“证明了一个理论，即如果我们能复制这个案例，我们就能够治愈艾滋病。”
On Thursday, Dr. Persaud said the fact that the child had remained virus-free for two years was “unprecedented.” Normally, the virus rebounds in a few weeks.
周四，佩尔绍德说，这个孩子两年内都没有检测出HIV病毒，这是“前所未有的”。正常情况下，HIV病毒几个星期之内就会反弹。