LONDON — Webster’s Dictionary defines plague as “anything that afflicts or troubles; calamity; scourge.” Further definitions include “any contagious epidemic disease that is deadly; esp., bubonic plague” and, from the Bible, “any of various calamities sent down as divine punishment.” The verb form means “to vex; harass; trouble; torment.”
伦敦——《韦氏字典》将“瘟疫”(plague)解释为“令人烦恼的事物；灾难；祸患”。进一步的解释包括，“致死性流行疾病，尤指鼠疫”；基督教《圣经》将其解释为“天罚”。动词用法则定义为“使恼火；烦扰；困扰；使痛苦”。
In Albert Camus’ novel, “The Plague,” written soon after the Nazi occupation of France, the first sign of the epidemic is rats dying in numbers: “They came up from basements and cubby-holes, cellars and drains, in long swaying lines; they staggered in the light, collapsed and died, right next to people. At night, in corridors and side-streets, one could clearly hear the tiny squeaks as they expired. In the morning, on the outskirts of town, you would find them stretched out in the gutter with a little floret of blood on their pointed muzzles, some blown up and rotting, other stiff, with their whiskers still standing up.”
在阿尔贝·加缪(Albert Camus)写于纳粹刚刚占领法国之后的小说《鼠疫》(The Plague)中，瘟疫的最早迹象是老鼠大批死亡。“它们从隐匿的屋角里、地下室、地窖、阴沟等处成群地爬出来，摇摇晃晃地走到光亮处踌躇不前，在原地打上几个转，最后就死在人的脚旁。到了夜里，在过道中或巷子里都可以清晰地听到它们垂死挣扎的轻声惨叫。在郊区的早晨，人们见到它们躺在下水道里，尖嘴上带着一小块血迹。有些已肿胀腐烂，有些直挺挺地伸着四肢，须毛还直竖着。”
The rats are messengers, but — human nature being what it is — their message is not immediately heeded. Life must go on. There are errands to run, money to be made. The novel is set in Oran, an Algerian coastal town of commerce and lassitude, where the heat rises steadily to the point that the sea changes color, deep blue turning to a “sheen of silver or iron, making it painful to look at.” Even when people start to die — their lymph nodes swollen, blackish patches spreading on their skin, vomiting bile, gasping for breath — the authorities’ response is hesitant. The word “plague” is almost unsayable. In exasperation, the doctor-protagonist tells a hastily convened health commission: “I don’t mind the form of words. Let’s just say that we should not act as though half the town were not threatened with death, because then it would be.”
老鼠传递了某种信号，但并未立即引起人类的关注——人本性便是如此。生活必须继续，有琐事要做，有钱要挣。小说的背景设置在阿尔及利亚的海滨城市奥兰。这里是个通商口岸，气质慵懒。此时温度稳步上升，海水都失去了它的深蓝色，变成了“一片银灰色的刺眼的反光”。就算是有人开始死去——淋巴结肿大、皮肤上黑色的斑点不断扩散、吐出了胆汁、呼吸困难——当局仍犹豫不决。几乎没人敢直说出“鼠疫”两个字。愤怒的男主人翁里厄医生告诉一名匆忙而来的卫生官员：“词句如何，关系不大。我们要讲的只是，不应当根据城中的无数生命不会遭遇致命威胁这样的假定来决定我们的行动，因为如果这样做，到头来无数的人命就恐怕真的会送掉。”
The sequence of emotions feels familiar. Denial is followed by faint anxiety, which is followed by concern, which is followed by fear, which is followed by panic. The phobia is stoked by the sudden realization that there are uncontrollable dark forces, lurking in the drains and the sewers, just beneath life’s placid surface. The disease is a leveler, suddenly everyone is vulnerable, and the moral strength of each individual is tested. The plague is on everyone’s minds, when it’s not in their bodies. Questions multiply: What is the chain of transmission? How to isolate the victims?
接下来的一系列情感波动我们并不陌生。先是否认，然后是些微的焦虑、接着是担忧、再就是恐惧，最后是慌乱。因为人们突然意识到世间存在不可控的黑暗力量，潜伏于阴沟与下水道中，就涌动在生活的平静表面之下，极度的恐惧一触即发。瘟疫让人平等，突然之间大家都那么脆弱，每个人的道德都受到了考验。瘟疫出现在每个人的脑海中，即便并没有染上它。问题加倍涌现：传染的途径是怎样的？如何将患者隔离开来？
Plague and epidemics are a thing of the past, of course they are. Physical contact has been cut to a minimum in developed societies. Devices and their digital messages direct our lives. It is not necessary to look into someone’s eyes let alone touch their skin in order to become, somehow, intimate. Food is hermetically sealed. Blood, secretions, saliva, pus, bodily fluids — these are things with which hospitals deal, not matters of daily concern.
事到如今，瘟疫和流行病已是过去时了。当然如此。在发达社会里，身体接触已被削减到最低限度。各种电子设备及其传递的讯息主导了我们的生活。想要变得与人多少亲密起来，无需再直视对方的双眼，更别提触碰对方的肌肤了。食物密封包装。血液、分泌物、唾液、脓汁、体液——这些东西都由医院处理，不必日常操心。
A virus contracted in West Africa, perhaps by a man hunting fruit bats in a tropical forest to feed his family, and cutting the bat open, cannot affect a nurse in Dallas, Texas, who has been wearing protective clothing as she tended a patient who died. Except that it does. “Pestilence is in fact very common,” Camus observes, “but we find it hard to believe in a pestilence when it descends upon us.”
那种在西非出现的病毒，可能是由一名在热带雨林中猎捕果蝠以喂饱家人并将其切开的男性传染到人体的。这样的病毒，应当无法影响到身着防护服来照顾病人的达拉斯护士，尽管这名病人后来过世了。问题是，护士感染了病毒。加缪观察到，“本来，天灾人祸是人间常事，然而一旦落到头上，人们却难以相信它是真的。”
The scary thing is that the bat that carries the virus is not sick. It is simply capable of transmitting the virus in the right circumstances. In other words, the virus is always lurking even if invisible. It is easily ignored until it is too late.
恐怖的是，携带病毒的蝙蝠并不会患病，它只会在恰当的情况下传播病毒。换句话说，就算看不见，这种病毒也将永远潜伏于世。人们很容易将之忽略，直到一切都太迟了。
Pestilence, of course, is a metaphor as well as a physical fact. It is not just blood oozing from gums and eyes, diarrhea and vomiting. A plague had descended on Europe as Camus wrote. The calamity and slaughter were spreading through the North Africa where he had passed his childhood. This virus hopping today from Africa to Europe to the United States has come in a time of beheadings and unease. People put the phenomena together as denial turns to anxiety and panic. They sense the stirring of uncontrollable forces. They want to be wrong but they are not sure they are.
当然，“瘟疫”既是一种隐喻，也是一种客观存在的事实。它不仅仅是让人口眼出血、腹泻和呕吐。加缪写作的时候，一场灾祸已降临到欧洲。在他度过童年时期的北非，劫难和屠戮曾在那里蔓延。今时今日，当世界被斩首恶行及不安情绪困扰的时候，病毒从非洲跳到了欧洲，又来到了美国。人们将这些现象放在一起想，否认就变成了焦虑和恐慌。他们感知到了一系列不受控因素的迹象，希望是自己的错觉，但又并不敢放心。