For the first time ever, three pharmaceutical companies are poised to test whether new drugs can work against a wide range of cancers independently of where they originated — breast, prostate, liver, lung. The drugs go after an aberration involving a cancer gene fundamental to tumor growth. Many scientists see this as the beginning of a new genetic age in cancer research.
有史以来第一次，三家制药公司做好了准备，来测试一种新药，看它们能否治疗多种不同的癌症，不论其最初发生的部位在何处，是乳腺癌、前列腺癌、肝癌还是肺癌。这些药针对的是一种突变，这种突变涉及一个癌变基因，对肿瘤生长起着重要作用。许多科学家把这视为癌症研究领域一个新基因时代的开始。
Great uncertainties remain, but such drugs could mean new treatments for rare, neglected cancers, as well as common ones. Merck, Roche and Sanofi are racing to develop their own versions of a drug they hope will restore a mechanism that normally makes badly damaged cells self-destruct and could potentially be used against half of all cancers.
尽管仍有很大的不确定性，但这些药物可能意味着，不论是对一些罕见的，被忽视的癌症，还是常见癌症，都可能有新疗法出现。默克公司(Merck)、罗氏公司(Roche)和赛诺菲公司(Sanofi)正在分别赶制它们各自的新药，它们希望这种新药能够恢复一种机能，使受损细胞自我毁灭，并希望这种药能治疗各种癌症中的一半。
No pharmaceutical company has ever conducted a major clinical trial of a drug in patients who have many different kinds of cancer, researchers and federal regulators say. “This is a taste of the future in cancer drug development,” said Dr. Otis Webb Brawley, the chief medical and scientific officer of the American Cancer Society. “I expect the organ from which the cancer came from will be less important in the future and the molecular target more important,” he added.
研究人员和联邦监管机构声称，还不曾有制药公司在身患多种癌症的病人身上进行过一种药物的大型临床试验。“这是未来癌症药物研发的一次尝试，”美国癌症协会(American Cancer Society)的首席医学科学官奥蒂斯·韦布·布劳利博士(Otis Webb Brawley)说。“我期望在未来，癌症最初发生在哪处器官会变得不那么重要，而分子靶向将变得更重要，”他补充说。
And this has major implications for cancer philanthropy, experts say. Advocacy groups should shift from fund-raising for particular cancers to pushing for research aimed at many kinds of cancer at once, Dr. Brawley said. John Walter, the chief executive officer of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, concurred, saying that by pooling forces “our strength can be leveraged.”
专家称，这将对癌症慈善事业有着深远的影响。布劳利博士说，倡导团体应当改变策略，将分别为各类癌症筹款变为推动以同时治疗多种癌症为目标的研究。白血病和淋巴瘤协会(Leukemia and Lymphoma Society)的首席执行官约翰·沃尔特(John Walter)对此表示赞同，他说，集中各方努力，“我们的优势将可以得到最大限度的发挥。”
At the heart of this search for new cancer drugs are patients like Joe Bellino, who was a post office clerk until his cancer made him too sick to work. Seven years ago, he went into the hospital for hernia surgery, only to learn he had liposarcoma, a rare cancer of fat cells. A large tumor was wrapped around a cord that connects the testicle to the abdomen. “I was shocked,” he said in an interview this summer.
这次癌症新药研究的动力来自于像乔·贝利诺(Joe Bellino)这样的患者，他曾是一名邮局职员，罹患癌症后无法继续工作。七年前，他去医院做疝气手术，才得知自己得了脂肪肉瘤，这是一种罕见的脂肪细胞癌症。一个巨大的肿瘤包裹住一条连接睾丸和腹腔的索状组织。“我惊呆了，”他在今年夏天的一次采访中说。
Companies have long ignored liposarcoma, seeing no market for drugs to treat a cancer that strikes so few. But it is ideal for testing Sanofi’s drug because the tumors nearly always have the exact genetic problem the drug was meant to attack — a fusion of two large proteins. If the drug works, it should bring these raging cancers to a halt. Then Sanofi would test the drug on a broad range of cancers with a similar genetic alteration. But if the drug fails against liposarcoma, Sanofi will reluctantly admit defeat.
制药公司长期以来忽视脂肪肉瘤这种癌症，因为对于这样一种发病率极低的癌症，其药物将不会有什么市场。但这对于赛诺菲新药的测试却非常合适，因为这种肿瘤通常呈现的基因问题正是这种药物的攻击目标，即两种大分子蛋白质的融合。如果新药起作用，它应该能够终结这些肆虐的癌细胞。然后，赛诺菲将在出现相似基因变异的各类癌症上测试这种药品。但假如这种新药无法治疗脂肪肉瘤，赛诺菲将无可奈何地承认失败。
“For us, this is a go/no-go situation,” said Laurent Debussche, a Sanofi scientist who leads the company’s research on the drug.
“对我们来说，这是个继续还是停止的问题，”赛诺菲科学家、新药研究的负责人劳伦特·德布斯切尔(Laurent Debussche)说。
The genetic alteration the drug targets has tantalized researchers for decades. Normal healthy cells have a mechanism that tells them to die if their DNA is too badly damaged to repair. Cancer cells have grotesquely damaged DNA, so ordinarily they would self-destruct. A protein known as p53 that Dr. Gary Gilliland of Merck calls the cell’s angel of death normally sets things in motion. But cancer cells disable p53, either directly, with a mutation, or indirectly, by attaching the p53 protein to another cellular protein that blocks it. The dream of cancer researchers has long been to reanimate p53 in cancer cells so they will die on their own.
这种新药所针对的基因变异问题已经困扰了研究者数十年。健康细胞有一种机能，如果DNA损坏过于严重，无法修复，就会凋亡。癌细胞的DNA就是严重损坏的，所以，正常情况下本应可以自行凋亡。一种名为p53的蛋白质会启动这种凋亡机能。默克公司的加里·吉利兰博士(Gary Gilliland)称p53蛋白质为细胞的死亡天使。但癌细胞会使p53蛋白质失效，或是直接地通过基因突变，或是间接地把p53蛋白质附着到另一种细胞蛋白质上，将其阻挡。癌症研究者一直梦想着令癌细胞中的p53恢复功能，这样癌细胞将自行死去。
The p53 story began in earnest about 20 years ago. Excitement ran so high that, in 1993, Science magazine anointed it Molecule of the Year and put it on the cover. An editorial held out the possibility of “a cure of a terrible killer in the not too distant future.”
p53的研究在20年前开始受到重视。1993年，《科学》杂志(Science)把p53选为“年度分子”并把它放在了杂志封面上。此时学界对于p53的发现无比兴奋。一篇社论预测，“制服一个恐怖杀手的方法将在不久的将来出现。”
Companies began chasing a drug to restore p53 in cells where it was disabled by mutations. But while scientists know how to block genes, they have not figured out how to add or restore them. Researchers tried gene therapy, adding good copies of the p53 gene to cancer cells. That did not work.
制药公司开始寻找一种能够修复细胞中p53蛋白质的药物，在这些细胞中，p53蛋白质由于突变而失去效力。但是，虽然科学家们已经知道如何阻断基因，他们还不知道如何添加或者修复基因。研究人员尝试采用基因疗法，复制健康的p53基因，添加到癌细胞中。但未能奏效。
Then, instead of going after mutated p53 genes, they went after half of cancers that used the alternative route to disable p53, blocking it by attaching it to a protein known as MDM2. When the two proteins stick together, the p53 protein no longer functions. Maybe, researchers thought, they could find a molecule to wedge itself between the two proteins and pry them apart.
然后，他们转移方向，不再针对变异的p53基因本身。大概有一半的癌症利用另一种方法来使p53蛋白质失去效力，即将它附着在一个名为MDM2的蛋白质上来阻断它。当这两种蛋白质结合在一起时，p53蛋白质就不再发挥效力，于是研究人员决定转而从这些癌症着手。他们想，也许他们能找到一种分子，能楔入这两个蛋白质之间，把它们撬开。
The problem was that both proteins are huge and cling tightly to each other. Drug molecules are typically tiny. How could they find one that could separate these two bruisers, like a referee at a boxing match?
问题是这两种蛋白质都很大，而且紧密地附着在一起。而药物分子通常都很小。怎么能找到一种分子，就像拳击台上的裁判一样，去分开这两个庞然大物呢？
In 1996, researchers at Roche noticed a small pocket between the behemoths where a tiny molecule might slip in and pry them apart. It took six years, but Roche found such a molecule and named it Nutlin because the lab was in Nutley, N.J.
1996年，罗氏制药的研究人员发现，这两个附着在一起的巨型蛋白质间有一个小缝隙，或许能有一个小型分子可以从这里嵌入，将它们分开。罗氏制药的研究人员虽花了六年时间，但终究发现了这样一个分子，将它命名为纳特林，因为发现它的实验室位于新泽西州的纳特利。
But Nutlins did not work as drugs because they were not absorbed into the body.
但是纳特林并不能做为药物使用，因为它不能被人体吸收。
Roche, Merck and Sanofi persevered, testing thousands of molecules.
罗氏、默克集团、赛诺菲并没有放弃，继续试验数以千计的分子。
At Sanofi, the stubborn scientist leading the way, Dr. Debussche, maintained an obsession with p53 for two decades. Finally, in 2009, his team, together with Shaomeng Wang at the University of Michigan and a biotech company, Ascenta Therapeutics, found a promising compound.
在赛诺菲，主导研究的倔犟的科学家德布斯切尔博士20年来对 p53蛋白质孜孜不倦，最后在2009年，他的团队与密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的王少萌教授以及一家名为亚生生物制药有限公司(Ascenta Therapeutics)的生物科技公司，发现了一种化合物极具希望。
The company tested the drug by pumping it each day into the stomachs of mice with sarcoma.
这家公司通过每日给长肉瘤的老鼠的胃中灌注这种药来进行实验。
A week later, Cedric Barriere, the scientist conducting the experiment, went to his boss, Dr. Debussche, saying, “Laurent, I have a problem.” He confessed that he had treated some of the mice only once. And their tumors had vanished.
一周后，开展实验的科学家塞德里克·巴里尔(Cedric Barriere)去找他的老板德布斯切尔博士，对他说，“劳伦特，我有一个问题。”他承认，他给部分老鼠只进行过一次注射。而它们的肿瘤已经消失了。
Dr. Debussche was stunned. “We have to reproduce it,” he said. They did.
德布斯切尔博士震惊了。“我们需要能重现这一治疗过程，”他说。他们的确做到了。
Dr. Debussche popped open a bottle of Champagne, but his team tempered its hope.
德布斯切尔博士开了一瓶香槟酒，但是他的团队却不敢寄予太高的希望。
“The joke is if we were trying to cure mouse cancer we would have done it 30 years ago,” said Dr. Donald Bergstrom, a vice president at Sanofi.
“好笑的是，如果我们要治疗老鼠的癌症，30年前我们就能做到了，”赛诺菲的副总裁唐纳德·伯格斯特龙(Donald Bergstrom)博士说道。
As research progressed, all three companies worried about the unprecedented challenges of testing a drug in many types of cancers at once. Such a clinical trial would most likely involve just a few patients in each of many medical centers. But keeping a trial going involves mounds of paperwork and documentation. Medical centers are often loath to do it for just a handful of patients.
随着研究继续进行，三家公司都开始担心，同时针对多种癌症进行新药的试验，这是一次前所未有的挑战。这样一次临床实验可能牵涉多家医疗中心，每家选取几名病人。但是一次实验就会涉及大量的文书工作以及记录。而医疗中心往往不愿意只为了少数病人而做这样的工作。
Roche was the first to start testing a p53 drug in patients. The company began, as required, with an attempt to establish a dose strong enough to be effective but not too toxic. It took a surprisingly long time — three years — because Roche was cautious, starting with a tiny dose and gradually escalating it.
罗氏是第一家开始在患者身上实验p53药物的公司。根据要求，该公司需要尽力找到一种合适的剂量，即能够起到疗效，又不至于有太大的毒性。这花了相当长的时间——三年——因为罗氏相当谨慎，他们从微小剂量开始，再逐渐加量。
Their tumors can be as big as a watermelon, says Dr. Andrew J. Wagner, an expert at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and one of Mr. Bellino’s doctors. They often start at the back of a patient’s belly, where they go unnoticed unless the person is very thin. “There is a lot of space back there,” Dr. Wagner explained. Surgeons try to remove the tumors, but they usually grow back and spread.
安德鲁·J·瓦格纳(Andrew J. Wagner)博士是丹娜-法伯癌症研究所(Dana-Farber Cancer Institute)的专家，也是贝利诺的一位医生，他说，脂肪肉瘤患者的肿瘤可以长到像西瓜那么大。癌细胞通常从病人的腹部下面开始生长，除非此人很瘦，不然很少会注意到。“那里有很大的空间，”瓦格纳博士说。外科医生可以切除肿瘤，但它们通常还会复发并扩散。
Liposarcoma is so rare — only about 2,000 or so cases each year — that no drugs have ever been specifically tested on patients with this type of cancer. Mr. Bellino said over the summer that he hoped he could be among the first to try it. When the call goes out for study subjects, he said, “I will be waving my hands.”
脂肪肉瘤很罕见，每年仅有2000例左右的患者，因此从来没有进行过针对此类癌症患者的药物试验。今年夏天，贝利诺说，他希望会成为第一批试用此药的人。他说，当研究人员征召实验对象时，“我会举手。”
But the test will come too late for him. He died from his cancer on Nov. 13.
但是实验对他来说还是来得太晚了。11月13日，他死于癌症。