Scientists have discovered that the most dangerous cancer of the uterine lining closely resembles the worst ovarian and breast cancers, providing the most telling evidence yet that cancer will increasingly be seen as a disease defined primarily by its genetic fingerprint rather than just by the organ where it originated.
科学家发现，最危险的子宫内膜癌，与最糟糕的卵巢癌和乳腺癌相当类似，这提供了迄今为止最有力的证据，显示出癌症越来越被视为一种主要是由其基因图谱定义的疾病，而不是由其发病器官。
The study of endometrial cancer — the cancer of the uterine lining — and another of acute myeloid leukemia, published simultaneously on Wednesday by Nature and The New England Journal of Medicine, are part of a sprawling, ambitious project by the National Institutes of Health to scrutinize DNA aberrations in common cancers.
周三，《自然》杂志(Nature)上发表了子宫内膜癌研究，同日，《新英格兰医学杂志》(New England Journal of Medicine)上也发表了急性髓系白血病研究。这两项研究都属于一个雄心勃勃的庞大计划的一部分，该计划由美国国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)施行，旨在详查常见癌症中的DNA突变。
Over the past year, as part of this project, researchers have reported striking genetic changes in breast, colon and lung cancers that link them to other cancers. One kind of breast cancer was closely related to ovarian cancer. Colon cancers often had a genetic change found in breast cancer. And about half of squamous cell lung cancers might be attacked by drugs being developed for other cancers.
近一年来，作为该计划的一部分，研究者们报告了乳腺癌、结肠癌和肺癌中与其他癌症有关的惊人的基因变化。一种乳腺癌被认为与卵巢癌非常相似。而结肠癌中的一种基因变化常常在乳腺癌中发现。约有一半种类的鳞状细胞肺癌可以由为其他癌症开发的药物进行治疗。
The endometrial cancer and leukemia efforts alone involved more than 100 researchers who studied close to 400 endometrial tumors and 200 leukemias. Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecological cancer in American women and strikes nearly 50,000 of them a year, killing about 8,000. Acute myeloid leukemia, the most prevalent acute adult leukemia, is diagnosed in about 14,000 Americans a year and kills about 10,000.
仅子宫内膜癌和白血病的项目，就有100多名研究者参与，他们研究了近400例子宫内膜肿瘤和近200例白血病。子宫内膜癌是美国女性中最常见的妇科癌症，每年有近5万人发病，死亡约8千人。急性髓系白血病是最常见的成人急性白血病，在美国有约1.4万人患病，死亡约1万人。
“This is exploring the landscape of cancer genomics,” said Dr. David P. Steensma, a leukemia researcher at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute who was not involved with the studies. “Many developments in medicine are about treatments or tests that are only useful for a certain period of time until something better comes by. But this is something that will be useful 200 years from now. This is a landmark that will stand the test of time.”
“这是对癌症基因组领域的一次探索，”参与这些研究的丹娜-法伯癌症研究所(Dana-Farber Cancer Institute)的戴维·P·斯廷斯玛博士(David P. Steensma)说。“医学的许多发展是关于仅在一段特定时期内有效的疗法或测试，直到一些更好的东西出现为止。但这些研究将在今后的200年里都有效。这是一个经得起时间考验的里程碑。”
Dr. Douglas Levine of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, the principal investigator on the endometrial cancer study, said the group scoured the country for samples of this cancer.
纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心(Memorial Sloan- Kettering Cancer Center)的道格拉斯·莱文博士(Douglas Levine)是子宫内膜癌研究中的主要研究员，称该研究组曾在全国搜寻这种癌症的病例。
The cancer has long been evaluated by pathologists who examine thin slices of endometrial tumors under a microscope and put them in one of two broad categories. But the method is not ideal. In general, one category predicts a good prognosis and tumors that could be treated with surgery and radiation, while the other holds a poorer prognosis and requires chemotherapy after surgery. But pathologists often disagree about how to classify the tumors and can find it difficult to distinguish between the two types, Dr. Levine said.
这种癌症曾一直由病理学家进行分析，他们在显微镜下分析子宫内膜肿瘤切片，并把它们分为两大类。但这种方法并不理想。通常，其中一类预示着预后良好，这些肿瘤可以接受手术和放射治疗，而另一类预后不良，并在手术后需要进行化疗。但病理学家通常对如何划分肿瘤存在分歧，并发现很难区分这两个种类，莱文博士说。
The new genetic analysis of hundreds of tumors found patterns of genetic aberrations that more precisely classify the tumors, dividing them into four distinct groups. About 10 percent of tumors that had seemed easily treated with the old type of exam now appear to be more deadly according to the genetic analysis and would require chemotherapy.
在分析了数百种肿瘤后，这一新的基因分析法发现了能对肿瘤进行更精确分类的基因畸变模式，可以把肿瘤分为四个不同的类别。根据这一基因分析法，大约有10%按照老的检查方法可以轻易治疗的肿瘤如今似乎更具致命性，因而需要化疗。
Another finding was that many endometrial cancers had a mutation in a gene that had been seen before only in colon cancers. The mutation disables a system for repairing DNA damage, resulting in 100 times more mutations than typically occur in cancer cells.
另一个发现则是，很多子宫内膜癌病例中出现了只在结肠癌中出现过的基因突变。这一突变破坏了DNA损伤修复系统，其引发的突变次数是癌细胞通常突变次数的100倍。
“That was a complete surprise,” Dr. Levine said.
“这完全出乎意料，”莱文博士说。
It turned out to be good news. Endometrial cancers with the mutation had better outcomes, perhaps because the accumulating DNA damage is devastating to cancer cells.
事实证明，这是好消息。发生了这一突变的子宫内膜癌病例情况较好，这可能是因为累积起来的DNA损伤大大破坏了癌细胞。
Another surprise was that the worst endometrial tumors were so similar to the most lethal ovarian and breast cancers, raising the tantalizing possibility that the three deadly cancers might respond to the same drugs.
同样让人出乎意料的是，最严重的子宫内膜癌和大多数致命的卵巢癌及乳腺癌极为相似，从而增加了这样一种诱人的可能性，即这三种致命的癌症可能会对同一种药物起反应。
Jeff Boyd, executive director of the Cancer Genome Institute at Fox Chase Cancer Center, who was not involved with the new research, said the similarity among breast, ovarian and endometrial tumors was the best example yet of the idea that cancers are more usefully classified by their gene mutations than by where they originate. Though many scientists believe this view is correct, Dr. Boyd said, “It is very rewarding — I can’t overstate it” to see it validated with real data.
福克斯蔡斯癌症中心癌症基因组研究所(Cancer Genome Institute at Fox Chase Cancer Center)的杰夫·博伊德(Jeff Boyd)说，乳腺癌、卵巢癌和子宫内膜癌这三种癌症之间的相似性极好地证明了，把癌症按基因突变分类比把癌症按起源部位分类更有效。尽管很多科学家认为这一观点是正确的，但博伊德博士说，“这很有成效，但我不能夸大事实，”这还需要真实数据的验证。博伊德没有参与这一新研究。
While the genetics of endometrial cancer had gone largely unstudied until now, acute myeloid leukemia has been investigated for decades, in part because leukemia cells are so accessible. They are in the blood and bone marrow.
到目前为止，尽管对子宫内膜癌的遗传学研究在很大程度上还是空白，但对急性髓系白血病的研究已有几十年历史，这其中的部分原因是白血病细胞很易获取，它们存在于血液和骨髓之中。
Using microscopes and special staining methods, researchers had already discovered, for example, that chromosomes in these leukemia cells are often broken or hooked together in strange ways. They also knew that some chromosomal alterations were associated with a good prognosis, and others with a bad one. Patients with a good prognosis can usually be treated with chemotherapy alone while those with a worse prognosis need the expensive, difficult and risky treatment of last resort: a bone marrow transplant. It comes with a 10 percent death rate.
通过显微镜和特殊的染色法，研究人员已发现，这些白血病细胞中的染色体经常是破损的，或是以奇怪的方式连接在一起。研究人员还发现，一些染色体畸变和良好预后有联系，而一些则会导致预后不良。预后良好的患者通常只需接受化疗，而预后不良的患者则需要进行昂贵、困难且高风险的最后一搏：骨髓移植。骨髓移植的死亡率是10%。