KABUL, Afghanistan — Just south of the city center is the most famous of Kabul’s many dun-colored mountains. It is called TV Hill, after the telecom and broadcast antennas that crowd its peak like needles in a pincushion. One of the most visible signs of the Western presence in Afghanistan, it is hailed as a symbol of post-Taliban progress.
阿富汗喀布尔——在市中心南面一点，耸立着喀布尔灰褐色山峦中最出名的一座。它被人们称为“电视山”，因为山顶上布满了电信与广播天线，仿佛是垫子上插满了针头。这里是西方在阿富汗的存在最为显眼的标志之一，被认为是后塔利班时代进步的象征。
In fact, TV Hill is a microcosm of a nation divided. Conflict has made Afghanistan, a traditionally rural country, more urban. Since the beginning of NATO’s war in 2001, many people have left their home villages and moved to cities looking for safety and work. These waves of migration have left on TV Hill a kind of sociological sediment, with different groups of different means settling at different levels up the slope. The higher, the poorer.
实际上，电视山是这个分化严重的国家的缩影。冲突让传统的乡村之国阿富汗变得更加城市化。自从2001年北约出兵以来，大批民众背井离乡，迁移到城市中来寻找安全感和工作。一波波的移民潮造成了电视山的某种社会沉淀，不同谋生手段的不同群体在山上的不同高度定居。住得越高的人，越是贫困。
On Saturday, Afghans will vote in the second round of the election to replace President Hamid Karzai. But for the 20,000 or so families who live on TV Hill, the runoff is yet another distant technicality with a mysterious influence on the minutiae of their lives.
本周六，阿富汗人将进行总统选举的第二轮投票，以期选出哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)的继任者。不过，对于住在电视山上的2万个家庭而言，这次的决胜轮投票不过是又一桩遥远的小事，仅对其生活的细枝末节会有点说不清的影响。
One morning last February, several weeks before the first round of voting, my translator, Qadeer, and I set out to climb the hill. The base, a dense warren of flat-topped houses, is home to former refugees of the civil war and the Taliban regime in the 1990s who returned to Afghanistan after the United States-led NATO invasion.
今年2月的一天上午，第一轮投票的几周前，我和翻译卡迪尔(Qadeer)动身爬这座山。山脚下是密密麻麻的平顶房。这里住着的人曾于上世纪90年代的内战及塔利班政权时期逃往国外，而后又在美国牵头发动北约军事行动后重返阿富汗。
That day, Wali Mohammad Safed, a tall and bearded middle-aged man, was taking a break from selling apples at his stall and puttering around his cement-and-brick house. It stood out against the tawny landscape of mud-walled homes.
当天，留着胡子的高个中年男子瓦利·穆罕默德·萨菲德(Wali Mohammad Safed)没有在摊位上卖苹果，而是在自家的砖混结构住宅附近转悠。在成片黄褐色泥墙屋构成的景象中，这栋屋子颇为显眼。
I asked him how much it was worth. “Without NATO, it is worth $20,000,” he said. And with NATO? “Forty thousand dollars!”
我问他，房子值多少钱。“没有北约的时候，值2万美元（约合12.5万元人民币），”他回答。有了北约呢？“4万美元！”
For residents of the foothill, the word “NATO” is shorthand for the bounty brought by the international community. When Mr. Safed, an ethnic Tajik, first moved here there was no water or electricity. The foreign-aid boom brought both. Various development projects have cleared away mines, garbage and human excrement.
对于山脚的居民而言，“北约”这个词是国际社会带来的各种好处的简称。萨菲德是塔吉克族裔，当初搬到这里的时候连水电都没通。激增的外国援助带来了水电。多个开发项目清理了地雷、垃圾和人的粪便。
Mr. Karzai was a fool not to sign the bilateral security agreement with Washington, Mr. Safed lamented, referring to a pact that would have allowed a significant number of American troops to stay in Afghanistan beyond this year. Without continued assistance, he warned, the advances that have been made will come undone.
萨非德抱怨，卡尔扎伊不与华盛顿签署安全协议的决定很愚蠢。这项协议本将允许大量美军在2014年后继续驻扎在阿富汗。他警告，没有持续援助的话，之前取得的进步将被悉数抹去。
In addition to the Taliban insurgency, which remains undefeated, a major threat to stability after the United States withdrawal will be the state itself. Most institutions are rotten, eaten away by incompetence and corruption. Yet President Obama announced late last month that only about 9,800 American troops would remain in Afghanistan by early 2015 and none by 2017.
塔利班叛乱尚未平息，除此之外，美军撤离后，阿富汗政权本身就是对稳定的最大威胁。该国多数机构腐化堕落，深受无能与腐败的困扰。然而，奥巴马总统上月底宣布，到2015年初，仅有9800人左右的美军将士将留驻阿富汗，到2017年则会全部撤离。
Qadeer and I continued up the hill, wending through narrow passageways, trailed by children playing tag. We arrived at the house of Abdul Aziz, two stories of crumbling mud. Mr. Aziz said he had been jobless for several years since fleeing his home in Wardak, a province about an hour’s drive to the south, which the Taliban often use to stage attacks on the capital. He supported his family by purchasing food on credit, he said. The front pocket of his shalwar kameez was bulging with hand-scribbled i.o.u. notes.
卡迪尔和我继续往山上走，穿过狭窄的通道，身后跟着玩捉人游戏的小孩。我们到了阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹(Abdul Aziz)家门口。这是一栋两层的泥巴房，摇摇欲坠。阿齐兹表示，自打从瓦尔达克省的家乡逃出来，他好几年没工作了。瓦尔达克省在喀布尔以南一小时车程的地方，常被塔利班用作攻击首都的跳板。他说，自己通过赊账购买食物来接济家人。他的短袍前口袋里鼓鼓囊囊，里头满是潦草写就的欠条。
Despite his money woes, Mr. Aziz said security was his most pressing concern. “If NATO leaves, what happened in Iraq will happen here,” he said. “Every night we saw the fighting on TV. This is our fear.” Mr. Aziz, an ethnic Pashtun, is a veteran of the civil wars of the 1990s. He, like other Pashtuns, fought Hazaras over which group would fill the power vacuum left by the Soviet forces, who had just withdrawn after a decade-long occupation.
虽然在经济上很困难，但阿齐兹说，安全才是他最担忧的事情。“如果北约离开，在伊拉克发生的事情就会在这里重演，”他说，“每晚我们都在电视上看到打来打去的事情。这让我们感到害怕。“阿齐兹是普什图人，曾参加过上世纪90年代的内战。当时，苏联军队在占领阿富汗十年之后刚刚撤离，像阿齐兹这样的普什图人与哈扎拉人开战，希望争夺苏军离开后留下的权力真空。
TV Hill is roughly organized along ethnic lines, with mostly Tajiks settled at the base, Hazaras midway up and Pashtuns, the most recent arrivals, toward the top. Mr. Aziz lives lower down than most Pashtuns, but is poorer than his immediate neighbors.
电视山大致是依据民族来分区的，塔吉克人居住在山脚，哈扎拉人在山腰，最后到来的普什图人则居住在靠近山顶的地方。阿齐兹住的位置比大多数的普什图人都低，但他比近邻们贫穷。
As security concerns grow, the rest of Kabul is also becoming more Balkanized — Pashtuns in the north, Hazaras in the west. Mr. Karzai, an ethnic Pashtun, will leave behind deep divisions. Many Afghans still vote along ethnic lines. The runoff vote on Saturday is between Ashraf Ghani, another Pashtun, and Abdullah Abdullah, who is popular among Tajiks.
随着人们越发担心安全问题，喀布尔其他地方的区块划分也变得更加明显——普什图人集中在北部，哈扎拉人集中在西部。普什图族的卡尔扎伊离任时，留下的将是严重四分五裂的局面。很多阿富汗人仍然投票给同族的候选人。在周六的决选中，一方是普什图族的阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)，另一方是在塔吉克人中很受欢迎的阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)之间。
Farther up the hill we met Nagieb, a 26-year-old Hazara who runs a small shoe shop in the city. The air was fresher at this height; the smog hanging over Kabul was beneath us now. He insisted we join him for a lunch of kabuli pulao, a traditional rice dish; his version contained radishes instead of the usual lamb. Nagieb said that the only way to escape TV Hill for the Kabul below was “by becoming rich or by dying.”
在继续登山的途中，我们遇到了26岁的纳吉布(Nagieb)。他是哈扎拉人，在城中经营一家小鞋店。在这样高的地方，空气变得更加清新；烟雾笼罩的喀布尔现在位于我们的脚下。他坚持要我们一起共进午餐，吃阿富汗抓饭。这是一种传统的稻米餐，他吃的这顿饭添加的是萝卜而不是通常的羔羊肉。纳吉布说，逃离电视山，进入喀布尔的方法只有一个：“要么发财要么死。”
We pushed on. The wrought-iron balustrade that had guided us so far ended. We had to scale a cliff of trash. At the landing, heavyset women carrying bags of rice and cans of oil were taking a break, their breath heaving. The air smelled of freshly baked bread and open sewage. Children were playing hopscotch near the precipitous edge.
我们继续前行。一路引领我们方向的铁栏杆此时到了尽头。我们不得不登上一个堆积着垃圾的悬崖。在上面，一些携带大米袋和铝制油罐的女子正在休息，她们体型粗壮，呼吸沉重。空气中有新鲜出炉的面包和露天下水道污物的味道。孩子们在陡峭的山崖附近玩跳房子。
Qasim, a teenage boy covered in scabs, was tending a small kiosk of goods stolen from the United States military base in Bagram: frozen TV dinners, tortillas, Jell-O. He said he wished the Americans would go, even if that meant losing his supplies. “It’s enough that they were playing king in my country for over 10 years. It’s time they left Afghanistan to Afghans!”
卡西姆(Qasim)是一个十几岁的男孩，照看着一个小摊棚，里面是从美国巴格拉姆空军基地偷来的赃物：速冻盒饭、玉米饼和果冻。他说自己希望美国人离开，即使这意味着他损失了货源。“他们已经在我们国家扮演了十多年的统治者了，真的够长了。是时候把阿富汗还给阿富汗人了！”
If Qasim understood the roots of his anger, he might have mentioned the lawlessness in his home province of Kunduz, up north, where bands of pro-government militias extort money and favors from locals. But Qasim is only 15.
如果卡西姆知道引起他愤怒的根源，他可能会提到昆都士省无法无天的状况。昆都士省在喀布尔以北，是卡西姆的家乡，在那里，亲政府的民兵向当地人勒索钱财，进行性敲诈。但卡西姆只有15岁。
Our next stop, two-thirds up the hill, was at a Hazara neighborhood of a few dozen families, all related. Sayed Hussein, an old man with rheumy eyes, invited us into his house for a rest. He listed the family’s misfortunes: an eldest son who became disabled after stepping on a mine, a favorite son who fell off a roof while flying a kite, a wife with chronic pain from gunshot wounds. “The rich will always stay rich, the poor will always stay poor,” he said.
下一次我们停下脚步，是在离山顶约三分之一的地方，这里有一个哈扎拉社区，几十户人家互相之间都有亲戚关系。眼神浑浊的老人赛义德·侯赛因(Sayed Hussein)邀请我们到他家休息，并向我们细数家门不幸：长子踩到地雷，变成残疾；最疼爱的儿子放风筝时掉下屋顶；妻子受过枪伤，落下慢性疼痛的毛病。“富者恒富，穷者恒穷，”他说。