This year’s edition of the anthology “Best American Poetry” has come under criticism for including a poem by a white poet writing under a Chinese pseudonym, touching off intense online debate about diversity, inclusion and racial entitlement in the poetry world.
因为收录了一名用中文笔名写作的白人诗人的作品，今年的《美国最佳诗作》(Best American Poetry)选集饱受指责。此事在网上引发了有关诗坛多样性、包容性和种族特权的激烈讨论。
“The Bees, the Flowers, Jesus, Ancient Tigers, Poseidon, Adam and Eve” was submitted to the anthology, published on Tuesday by Scribner, by a little-known poet named Michael Derrick Hudson, under the pseudonym Yi-Fen Chou. After the poem’s selection, Mr. Hudson revealed his identity to the volume’s editor, Sherman Alexie, who decided to include it anyway, along with a note explaining the use of the pseudonym.
籍籍无名的诗人迈克尔·德里克·赫德森(Michael Derrick Hudson)用周一峰(Yi-Fen Chou)作为笔名，向诗选提交了自己的作品《蜜蜂、鲜花、耶稣、古代的老虎、波塞冬、亚当和夏娃》(The Bees, the Flowers, Jesus, Ancient Tigers, Poseidon, Adam and Eve)。诗选由斯克里布纳出版社(Scribner)周二刊出。作品入选后，赫德森向诗选主编谢尔曼·埃里克希(Sherman Alexie)表明了自己的真实身份，并附信对使用这一笔名的做法进行了解释。埃里克希依然决定收入这首诗。
In an essay on the Best American Anthology blog on Monday, Mr. Alexie, a Native American, defended his decision, saying he had paid closer attention to the poem because of the author’s name — a kind of “racial nepotism,” he said — but ultimately chose it because he liked it.
周一，身为美洲原住民的埃里克希在“美国最佳诗作”博客上发文为自己的决定辩护，称因为作者的名字，他给与了这首诗更多关注——这是一种“种族裙带行为”，他说——但选择那首诗的根本原因是自己喜欢。
When Mr. Hudson revealed his use of a pseudonym, Mr. Alexie wrote, he debated how to deal with this instance of “colonial theft,” but decided that dropping the poem “would have cast doubt on every poem I have chosen” and “implied that I chose poems based only on identity.”
埃里克希写道，当赫德森表明自己用的是笔名时，他考虑过该如何处理这起“殖民盗用”事件，但后来下定决心，认为放弃这首诗“会让我对选出来的每首诗产生怀疑”，并“意味着我只是根据作者的身份来选诗”。
“I hadn’t been fooled by its ‘Chinese-ness’ because it contained nothing that I recognized as being inherently Chinese or Asian,” Mr. Alexie wrote.
“我并没有被它的‘华人元素’欺骗，因为它并没有包含在我看来是华人或亚裔固有特色的东西，”埃里克希写道。
Mr. Hudson, who works as an indexer at the Allen County Public Library in Fort Wayne, Ind., did not answer messages requesting comment. But in the biographical note in “Best American Poetry,” he explained that he often sent poems out under the name Yi-Fen Chou.
赫德森在印第安纳州韦恩堡的艾伦县公共图书馆当索引编录员，未回复请其置评的讯息。但在《美国最佳诗作》的简介中，他解释说自己经常用周一峰的笔名投递诗歌。
“As a strategy for ‘placing’ poems this has been quite successful for me,” he said, noting that “The Bees” had been rejected 40 times under his own name but only nine times under the pseudonym before it was printed by the journal Prairie Schooner.
“作为一种让诗作‘入眼’的策略，这个办法对我来说相当成功，”他说，并指出自己用真实姓名寄出《蜜蜂》后被拒绝了40次，用笔名只被拒绝了九次，然后就在期刊《草原篷车》(Prairie Schooner)上发表了。
“If indeed this is one of the best American poems of 2015, it took quite a bit of effort to get it into print,” Mr. Hudson wrote. (Poems under his own name have appeared in numerous journals, including Poetry, this year.)
“如果说这真的是美国2015年最好的诗之一，让它付梓还真是费了些周章，”赫德森写道。（今年，用他的真名署名的诗作出现在了包括《诗歌》[Peoty]在内的众多期刊上。）
Mr. Hudson’s blunt explanation drew outrage and ridicule online. “Never thought I’d see poets using yellowface to get published in 2015 but here we are,” Saeed Jones, a poet and the literary editor of Buzzfeed, said on Twitter. Jezebel ran a post under the headline “If You’re a White Man Who Can’t Get Published Under Your Own Name, Take the Hint.”
赫德森直白的解释在网上引发了愤怒和嘲讽。“从来没想过，到了2015年居然会看到诗人为了能发表作品而假装成黄种人，但现在还真就看到了，”本身也是诗人的Buzzfeed文学主编赛义德·琼斯(Saeed Jones)在Twitter上写道。Jezebel也发表了一篇文章，题目是《如果你是用真名发表不了作品的白人，看这里》(If You’re a White Man Who Can’t Get Published Under Your Own Name, Take the Hint)。
Ken Chen, a poet and executive director of the Asian American Writers Workshop, said Mr. Hudson was guilty of “cynical mischief” in the service of a “reactionary fantasy.”
同为诗人的亚裔美国作家工作坊(Asian American Writers Workshop)行政总监陈圣为(Ken Chen)表示，赫德森利用“反动幻想”的做法是犯了“虚伪恶作剧”的错误。
“He believes that he’s being cheated, and things will only improve if writers of color are virtualized away,” Mr. Chen said in an interview. “If only they didn’t really exist, and were just white guys with pseudonyms.”
“他以为别人在作弊，只有当有色人种作家被虚化掉，情况才会有所改善，”陈圣为在接受采访时说。“他们其实并不存在，都是用了笔名的白人就好了。”
Rigoberto González, a poet who teaches at Rutgers University, Newark, said that Mr. Hudson had inadvertently “given a language to the anxiety that’s out there” among nonwhite writers: that they are included as tokens.
在纽瓦克罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)任教的诗人里格韦托·冈萨雷斯(Rigoberto González)认为，赫德森不经意间让非白人作家“本已存在的焦虑具化了”：他们是作为一种象征被接纳的。
“He’s buying into this notion of ‘I’ll be noticed because I have this ethnic name,’ ” Mr. González said. “But that’s what many writers of color are trying to avoid. We just happen to have ethnic names. But we are getting published because we are also good poets.”
“他相信‘我会因为用了这个有民族特色的名字而被注意到’的观念，”冈萨雷斯说。“但这正是很多有色人种作家在努力避免的。我们只是碰巧拥有了有民族特色的名字。我们的作品能发表是因为我们也是优秀的诗人。”
On Twitter on Monday, Mr. Alexie found a silver lining, writing, “I’m exhausted by the Best American Poetry mess, but wow, how cool that so many people are crazy-passionate about poems.”
周一的时候，埃里克希还从这件事上发现了亮点。他在Twitter上写道，“被《美国最佳诗作》的烂摊子搞得精疲力尽，不过哇，有这么多人对诗歌有着狂热的感情真是太酷了。”
Mr. González, however, said that including Mr. Hudson had distracted from the anthology.
然而，冈萨雷斯表示，收录赫德森作品这件事转移了人们对诗选本身的注意力。
“There are good poems and other new names in the anthology, but all we’ve been hearing about is this guy,” Mr. González said. “It’s really a shame.”
“选集中有不少优秀的诗歌和其他一些新秀，但我们听到的所有讨论都是关于这一个人的，”冈萨雷斯说。“真的很遗憾。”