LOS ANGELES — The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is expected to announce as early as next week measures aimed at making its Oscar choices more diverse, people briefed on the matter said Wednesday.
洛杉矶——知情人士周三表示，美国电影艺术与科学学院(The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)预计最早将于下周宣布旨在令奥斯卡选择更加多样化的措施。
The talk of possible changes follows calls to boycott this year’s Academy Awards ceremony after no minority actors were nominated for a second consecutive year, and “Straight Outta Compton” and other black-themed contenders were not among the eight nominees for best picture.
今年，少数族裔演员连续第二年没有得到提名，而《冲出康普顿》(Straight Outta Compton)等以黑人为主题的参赛片均未进入八部最佳影片提名之列，由此引发了抵制本年奥斯卡颁奖典礼的呼吁。于是，对于可能采取的变革的讨论也随之而来。
One of the likeliest quick changes would be an immediate return to a 10-film field of best picture nominees, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality strictures. That was the case in 2010 and 2011, but it would not guarantee more range in the films nominated. Only “The Blind Side,” which featured a young black actor, Quinton Aaron, and “Precious: Based on the Novel ‘Push’ by Sapphire,” could make a serious claim to ethnic diversity among the best picture nominees in those years.
一位因保密约束而不愿具名的人士透露，其中一项最有可能快速发生的变化将是立即恢复提名10部最佳影片的做法。2010年和2011年的情况就是如此，但这并不能保证提名影片涉及更广的范围。在那两年的最佳影片提名名单中，只有年轻黑人演员昆东·亚伦(Quinton Aaron)出演的《弱点》(The Blind Side)，以及《珍爱》(Precious: Based on the Novel  ‘Push’ by Sapphire)可真正称为种族多样化。
A less likely adjustment — but one that has been floated internally by some at the academy in recent days — might also open the acting categories to a larger group of nominees, say, eight or even 10.
一种不太可能实现但最近几天在学院部分人员之间内部流传的调整是，可能还会扩大表演类提名者人数，比如增加到八人乃至10人。
Expanding the acting nominations could result in more black, Hispanic or Asian contenders, though it would certainly rile those who regard the five-nominee system, in place since the 1930s, as sacrosanct.
扩大表演类提名人数可能带来更多黑人、西语裔或亚裔竞争者，但这显然会激怒那些视五人提名制神圣不容更改的人。该制度自上世纪30年代即开始实施。
Also possible is a requirement that academy members cast a ballot regularly, or lose voting privileges temporarily. It was not immediately clear how a use-it-or-lose-it provision would change the voting.
还有一种可能是，要求学院成员定期进行投票，否则就会暂时失去投票权。目前尚不清楚“不使用即失去”的规定将如何改变投票过程。
No firm plan to change voting methods, or possibly the membership process, is likely before a meeting of the academy’s 51-member governing board on Tuesday, according to the people briefed on the matter.
知情人士透露，在学院理事会的51名成员于周二召开会议之前，不大可能会有改变投票方法或入会流程的明确计划。
But officers and executives of the academy have been scrambling to find changes that might broaden the nominees next year, even as they wait for a push for diversity to substantially change a voting base that in the past was heavily white, older and male. The academy’s membership is made up of more than 6,000 movie professionals from around the world. Invitations to join are extended annually based on achievement and other contributions to the industry.
不过，学院的官员和高层一直在努力寻求变化，让明年的提名范畴扩大，同时期待采取一项极大地改变投票群体多样性的行动。过去，投票群体完全以白人、年纪较长者和男性为主。学院的成员包括来自全球各地的6000多名电影专业人士。每年都会根据成就和对行业的其他贡献来向更多人发出邀请。
In a statement on Monday the group’s president, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, pointed toward “dramatic steps” and an immediate review of how members are recruited.
在周一的声明中，学院主席谢丽尔·布恩·艾萨克斯(Cheryl Boone Isaacs)指出将采取“重大举措”并对成员招募方式立即进行审核。
An academy spokeswoman declined to discuss the expected steps.
学院的一位女发言人拒绝谈论计划中的举措。
But a larger best picture field might have opened the door this year to “Straight Outta Compton” or “Creed.” The current nominating system, in which voters are asked to list five films in order of preference and then the field is winnowed to a group that can vary from five to 10 movies, based on intensity of support, may also have played a role.
但扩大最佳影片提名名单或许会在今年向《冲出康普顿》或《奎迪》(Creed)敞开大门。当前的提名制度也可能发挥了一定作用。这一制度要求投票人按照优先次序列出五部影片，然后根据受支持程度淘汰到五至十部片子。
Some academy insiders have long urged that Dawn Hudson, the group’s chief executive, and Ms. Isaacs, its elected president — both of whom have been pressing for more diversity — consider stronger measures to bar from voting those members who have not been active in the film industry for a certain period, say 10 or 20 years.
学院的一些内部人士长期以来敦促首席执行官道恩·哈德逊(Dawn Hudson)和当选主席艾萨克斯考虑更有力的措施，以阻止一段时间未在电影界活跃的成员投票，比如把期限设为10年或20年。他们二人一直在争取更加多样化。
But such a move would inevitably meet fierce resistance, and does not appear likely at Tuesday’s meeting, which is a regularly scheduled session. Some academy members privately suggested this week that any move to ditch the older members’ votes might provoke a class-action lawsuit.
然而，这样的举措必然遇到激烈抵抗，似乎也不太可能在周二的例会上出现。本周，一些学院成员在私下透露，任何剥夺老成员投票权的行为都可能招致集体诉讼。
An unsettling possibility remains, notwithstanding any changes: Next year the academy may have to choose from an even slimmer field of ethnically diverse contenders, as some of the most prominent black stars and filmmakers turn toward less-obvious awards bets, or television.
无论有什么改革，一种令人不安的可能性仍然存在：明年，学院或许得从更缺乏种族多样性的竞争者当中挑选，因为一些最杰出的黑人明星和主创人员开始转向不大可能冲击奖项的影片，或准备去拍电视。
For instance, Ryan Coogler, who directed “Creed” — and was not nominated — has been lined up as the director of Marvel’s “Black Panther,” and Ava DuVernay, who directed “Selma,” a nominee for best picture but not best director last year, is working on a television series, “Queen Sugar.”
例如，《奎迪》的导演瑞恩·库格勒(Ryan Coogler)准备执导漫威的《黑豹》(Black Panther)，而《赛尔玛》(Selma)的导演艾娃·德约列(Ava DuVernay)正在拍摄电视剧《蜜糖女王》(Queen Sugar)。《奎迪》今年未获提名，《赛尔玛》去年被提名为最佳影片，但德约列未获最佳导演提名。
Whatever emerges from Tuesday’s meeting, the academy’s staff, governors and officers alike have been aware of a need for immediate action, if they are to head off damage to a show set for broadcast on Feb. 28 by ABC.
不论周二的会议上发生什么，学院的顾问、理事和官员都已意识到，要想阻止对颁奖典礼的损害，他们需要立即采取行动。典礼定于2月28日进行，由ABC电视台直播。
Though there have been calls for a boycott, and Spike Lee and Jada Pinkett-Smith have both said they intend to avoid the show, Chris Rock has so far remained committed to hosting the ceremony.
尽管有人呼吁抵制，斯派克·李(Spike Lee)和贾达·萍克特-史密斯(Jada Pinkett-Smith)也都表示要回避这场典礼，但到目前为止，克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock)仍决定主持仪式。
While the boycott movement remains short of a showstopper, academy associates have been working feverishly to defuse the controversy, and perhaps to include some of those who were not nominated — one person being courted to appear is Ms. Pinkett Smith’s husband, Will Smith, overlooked for his role in “Concussion.”
虽然抵制运动尚未成为强劲的干扰，但学院高层一直在努力地平息争议，或许要让一些并未获得提名的人出现在典礼现场——他们正在争取的其中一人便是萍克特·史密斯的丈夫威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)，他在《脑震荡》(Concussion)中的角色受到了奖项的忽视。
Whether Mr. Smith will appear, on stage or off, on Oscar night is unclear. But race will certainly be front-and-center among the topics that Mr. Rock, a comedian who does not shy away from much, cannot avoid.
威尔·史密斯是否会在奥斯卡之夜的台上或台下出现仍是未知数。不过，种族必将成为毫不避讳的喜剧演员洛克的重要话题。