The effects of human-induced climate change are being felt in every corner of the United States, scientists reported Tuesday, with water growing scarcer in dry regions, torrential rains increasing in wet regions, heat waves becoming more common and more severe, wildfires growing worse, and forests dying under assault from heat-loving insects.
周二，科学家们表示，人类导致的气候变化正在影响美国的每个角落，干旱地区的水资源日益稀缺、湿润地区的暴雨日渐增多、热浪变得更为频繁与严重、山火越来越糟糕，而森林则在喜温害虫的攻击下日渐凋零。
Such sweeping changes have been caused by an average warming of less than 2 degrees Fahrenheit over most land areas of the country in the past century, the scientists found. If greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane continue to escalate at a rapid pace, they said, the warming could conceivably exceed 10 degrees by the end of this century.
科学家发现，导致这种全面变化的是，过去一个世纪里，美国大部分地区平均增温了不到2华氏度（约合1.1摄氏度）。他们表示，假如二氧化碳和甲烷等温室气体的浓度持续激增，到本世纪末，变暖的幅度有可能超过10华氏度。
“Climate change, once considered an issue for a distant future, has moved firmly into the present,” the scientists declared in a major new report assessing the situation in the United States.
在这份评估美国气候变化状况的重大新报告中，科学家们宣布，“气候变化，曾被认为是遥远未来的问题，却已稳步向当前迈进。”
“Summers are longer and hotter, and extended periods of unusual heat last longer than any living American has ever experienced,” the report continued. “Winters are generally shorter and warmer. Rain comes in heavier downpours. People are seeing changes in the length and severity of seasonal allergies, the plant varieties that thrive in their gardens, and the kinds of birds they see in any particular month in their neighborhoods.”
“夏季变长、变热，极热的时间拉长到任何美国人都未曾经历的地步，”文中写道。“冬季总体变短变暖。降水的强度更大。人们正在看到各个方面的变化：季节性过敏的时长及严重性、家中花园的植物品种，以及任何月份在社区看到的鸟禽种类。”
The report is the latest in a series of dire warnings about how the effects of global warming that had been long foreseen by climate scientists are already affecting the planet. Its region-by-region documentation of changes that are occurring in the United States, and of future risks, makes clear that few places will be unscathed — and some, like northerly areas, are feeling the effects at a swifter pace than had been expected.
该报告是一系列发出严重警告的出版物中最新的一份。这些警告认为，气候科学家长期以来预测的全球变暖效应已经在对地球产生影响。报告分区域记录了美国正在发生的变化并分析了未来的风险，明确显示出没有几个地方能够毫发无损——而且，包括北方在内的部分地区，遭受影响的速度超过了之前的预测。
Alaska in particular is hard hit. Glaciers and frozen ground in that state are melting, storms are eating away at fragile coastlines no longer protected by winter sea ice, and entire communities are having to flee inland — a precursor of the large-scale changes the report foresees for the rest of the United States.
阿拉斯加尤其面临重创。该州的冰川与冻土正在融化，风暴则侵蚀着不再受到冬季海冰保护的脆弱海岸线，许多居住群落不得不整体逃往内陆——正是报告预测的美国其他地区将面临的大规模变化的前兆。
The study, known as the National Climate Assessment, was prepared by a large scientific panel overseen by the government and received final approval at a meeting Tuesday.
这项研究名为《全国气候评估》(National Climate Assessment)，由政府监管的一个大型科学委员会准备，并在本周二通过最终审核。
The White House, which released the report, wants to maximize its impact to drum up a sense of urgency among Americans about climate change — and thus to build political support for a contentious new climate change regulation that President Obama plans to issue in June.
报告由白宫发布。白宫希望尽可能地扩大它的影响，以激起美国民众对气候变化的紧迫感，从而为奥巴马总统计划在6月推出的争议性气候变化新监管规定积聚政治支持。
But instead of giving a Rose Garden speech, President Obama spent Tuesday giving interviews to local and national weather broadcasters on climate change and extreme weather. The goal was to help Americans connect the vast planetary problem of global warming caused by carbon emissions from cars and coal plants to the changing conditions in their own backyards. It was a strategic decision that senior White House staff members had been planning for months.
不过，奥巴马并未选择在玫瑰园发表演讲，而是周二接受了各大全国与地方媒体的天气预报员的采访，讨论气候变化与极端天气的问题。白宫的目标是，帮助美国民众将汽车和煤电厂二氧化碳排放导致全球变暖这一宏大的世界性问题，与自家后院不断变化的情形联系在一起。这是白宫高级幕僚策划数月做出的战略决策。
Speaking to Al Roker of NBC News, in an interview scheduled to be shown Wednesday morning on the “Today” show, Mr. Obama said “This is not some distant problem of the future. This is a problem that is affecting Americans right now. Whether it means increased flooding, greater vulnerability to drought, more severe wildfires — all these things are having an impact on Americans as we speak.”
接受NBC新闻频道(NBC News)的阿尔·罗克(Al Roker)采访时，奥巴马说，“这不是什么遥远未来的问题，而是一个正在影响美国民众的问题。不管是意味着洪灾增多、更容易出现干旱，还是更严重的山火——就在我们谈话的同时，所有这些都正在影响着美国人。”他们的对话定于周三早间的《今日秀》(Today)播放。
In the Northeast, the report found a big increase in torrential rains and risks from a rising sea that could lead to a repeat of the kind of flooding seen in Hurricane Sandy. In the Southwest, the water shortages seen to date are likely just a foretaste of the changes to come, the report found. In that region, the report warned, “severe and sustained drought will stress water sources, already overutilized in many areas, forcing increasing competition among farmers, energy producers, urban dwellers and plant and animal life for the region’s most precious resource.”
报告发现，在美国东北部，海平面上升的风险和暴雨事件大幅增多，可能导致飓风“桑迪”(Sandy)那种洪涝灾害重复发生。报告还认为，在西南部，目前看到的水资源短缺很可能是未来变化的预演。文中警告，在这一地区，“严重的持续性干旱将使得本已多年超采的水资源承压，迫使农场、能源生产商、都市居民以及动植物就该地区最为珍贵的资源展开日益激烈的竞争。”
The report did find some benefits from climate change in the short run, particularly for the Midwest, such as a longer growing season for crops and a longer shipping season on the Great Lakes. But it warned that these were likely to be countered in the long run by escalating damages, particularly to agriculture.
不过，报告的确也发现了气候变化的一些短期收益，尤其是对中西部而言，比如农作物种植季节变长，还有五大湖适宜运输的日期增多。可是，文中警告，这些好处很可能被日益恶化的长期损害抵消，尤其是在农业领域。
“Yes, climate change is already here,” said Richard B. Alley, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University who was not involved in writing the report. “But the costs so far are still on the low side compared to what will be coming under business as usual by late in this century.”
“是的，气候变化已经降临了，”宾夕法尼亚州立大学(Pennsylvania State University)的气候科学家理查德·B·阿利(Richard B. Alley)说。他本人并未参与报告的起草工作。“不过，比起一切照旧情景下，到本世纪末会面临的状况，截至目前的代价还算低的。”
The report was supervised and approved by a large committee representing a cross section of American society, including representatives of two oil companies. It is the third national report in 14 years, and by far the most urgent in tone, leaving little doubt that the scientists consider climate change an incipient crisis. It is also the most slickly produced, with an elaborate package of interactive graphics on the Internet.
负责监督与核准这份报告的是代表美国各部门的一个大型委员会，成员中还包括两家石油企业派出的代表。这是14年来的第三份全国评估报告，采用了迄今为止最为迫切的语气——非常明确地表明，科学家们认为气候变化是一场处于早期阶段的危机。这也是制作最为精良的一次，通过互联网呈现了详尽的互动图表集。
On rising sea levels, the new report went beyond warnings issued in September by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which said that by the end of the century, sea levels could rise by as much as three feet globally if emissions continue at a rapid pace. The American scientists said the rise could be anywhere from one to four feet, and added that six feet could not be ruled out. Along much of the East Coast, the situation will be worse than the global average because the land there is sinking, the scientists said.
在海平面上升方面，这份新报告比去年9月联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会(United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)发出的警告更进一步。该委员会认为，如果继续快速排放，到本世纪末，全球海平面可能抬升3英尺（约合90厘米）之多。而撰写本次报告的美国科学家则认为，海平面可能升高1到4英尺，而且不能排除6英尺的可能性。科学家们还表示，美国东海岸的状况将比全球平均水平更糟，因为那里还面临着地面沉降问题。
Historically, the United States was responsible for more emissions than any other country. Lately, China has become the largest emitter over all, though its emissions per person are still far below those of the United States.
美国的历史排放超过了其他任何国家。中国则在近期成为总排放最大的国家，但其人均排放仍远低于美国。