For months, the White House under President Donald Trump operated with few real rules, and those were barely enforced. People wandered into the Oval Office throughout the day. The president was given pieces of unvetted information, and found more on his own that he often tweeted out. Policy decisions were often based on whoever had last gotten Trump’s attention.
连月来，在唐纳德·特朗普总统领导下，白宫的运转甚少有真正的规则可循。整日里都有人踱进椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)。种种未经审核的信息被交到总统手上，他会自行发现更多，还常常用Twitter发布出去。政策决定常常基于是谁最后赢得了特朗普的关注。
Trump’s Twitter habit shows little sign of abating. On vacation earlier at his private club in Bedminster, New Jersey, and now, ensconced again in the White House, he has been watching television — unfettered by any aides — and responding as he always has.
特朗普的发推习惯基本没有显出收敛的迹象。不论是早前在其位于新泽西州贝德明斯特的私人俱乐部度假期间，还是眼下再次置身白宫之际，他一直都在看电视——不受任何助手干扰——并一如既往地做出回应。
But inside the West Wing, the president’s new chief of staff, John F. Kelly, has been trying to control the things he can. After being sworn in on July 31, he spent three weeks assessing how to create a less jumbled, chaotic churn around Trump, and how to create a system that the president’s staff will respect. In two memos sent to the staff on Monday he began to detail his plan, starting with how he wants information to get to the president, and how Trump will respond.
但在白宫西翼，总统的新幕僚长约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)一直试图尽可能地控制局面。于7月31日就职以后，他花了三周时间评估，如何让特朗普周围的人来人往变得不那么芜杂纷乱，如何打造一种会让总统的幕僚尊重的制度。在周一发给幕僚们的两份备忘录里，他开始详细阐述自己的计划，最先说的是他希望信息被如何传递给总统，以及他希望总统如何做出回应。
Codifying of paper flow and decision-making is not usually of note in a White House, and the practices laid out were fairly standard in previous administrations. But in Trump’s White House, where fiefs have been in constant combat and decision-making has often been ill defined, the memos, first reported by Politico, mark a new era.
在白宫，文件流程和决策的规范化工作通常并不值一提，而且这些相关做法在之前的政府当中已是司空见惯。但在特朗普的白宫，各个派系一直在与彼此争斗，决策过程未能得到良好确立，而由《政治》(Politico)首先报道的这些备忘录标志着一个新时代。
The pair of memos, signed by Robert Porter, the assistant to the president for policy coordination and staff secretary, as well as Kelly, codified rules and procedures that a White House typically sets at the outset of an administration.
这两则备忘录由负责政策协调的总统助理和白宫秘书罗伯特·波特(Robert Porter)及凯利签署，对若干规则和程序做了规范化，这些工作通常是在一届政府入主白宫之初就应完成的。
Kelly’s predecessor, Reince Priebus, sent some similar guidelines around early in the administration, according to two officials, but they were never taken seriously. Kelly, a retired Marine general, has been treated with a different level of deference inside the building, those aides said. Staff members discovered early on that they could defy Priebus, the officials said, but crossing a Marine is a different matter.
据两位官员说，凯利的前任，雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)在这届政府上任早期便提出了一些类似的指导方案，但它们从未被认真对待。那些助手们说，身为退役海军陆战队将军的凯利在白宫内受到了更高程度的尊重。官员们说，在早期，幕僚们发现他们可以违抗普利巴斯的意见，但是抗拒一位海军陆战队将军则是另一回事。
Kelly has made clear that one thing he will not seek to directly control is the behavior of the president, and there is a good reason for that.
凯利明确表示，有一件事他绝对不会去做，那就是试图直接控制总统的行为，而这是出于很好的理由。
Still, the memos have brought comfort to a number of Trump’s advisers who have sought structure in a Wild West environment. And they have provided guardrails where few existed.
尽管如此，这些备忘录为特朗普的一些顾问们带来了安慰，他们原本一直在疯狂无序的环境下寻找条理。备忘录还提供了原本几乎没有的防冲突护栏。
“Gen. Kelly is instilling processes to ensure that the president has the information and analysis he needs to make decisions,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.
“凯利将军正在逐步确立流程，以确保总统掌握决策所需的信息和分析材料，”白宫新闻秘书萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)说。 
The memos were follow-ups to themes that Kelly touched on during a conference call with senior staff members in which he went through a menu of items related to how the president receives information, how he makes decisions, how meetings with him are scheduled, and how speeches are scheduled and written.
在同高级幕僚的一次电话会议上，凯利列出了一系列事项，其中包括如何让总统获取信息；如何让总统做出决策；如何安排与他的会面，以及如何安排演讲和书写讲稿，这两份备忘录也是这些议题的后续跟进。
The effect so far has been, at times, a more pronounced split-screen between the president’s public behavior and his staff’s more structured approach. But inside the West Wing, several aides said they felt more protected by an established process.
到目前为止，这种做法更加凸显了总统的公开行为与其幕僚们更有条理的方式之间的差别。但白宫西翼的几位助手说，既定的流程给了他们更多受保护的感觉。
In one of the memos, White House aides were told that all materials prepared for the president must go first to Porter for vetting and clearance. Then Kelly must sign off on them before they go to Trump’s desk. That includes news articles, according to West Wing officials who described the memos’ content — of particular importance, given the propensity for some of Trump’s staff to slip him news accounts from dubious sources that shape his thinking or prompt him to cite unreliable or inaccurate information.
其中一份备忘录告知白宫助手，为总统准备的所有材料必须先呈交波特审批并筛选，之后必须经凯利签字，才能送到特朗普的办公桌上。据描述备忘录内容的白宫西翼官员说，特别重要的是，这其中也包括了新闻文章，因为特朗普的一些幕僚倾向于向他透露来源可疑的新闻，这些新闻塑造了他的想法，令他引用不可靠或不准确的信息。
In the second memo, Kelly and Porter set up a system for deciding policy issues to ensure that all sides of the issue are heard.
在第二份备忘录中，凯利和波特设立了一个关于政策问题的决策制度，确保问题各方的意见都能得到听取。
That process is expected to curtail freelancing and hijacking of decisions by West Wing aides. Bannon was often accused of taking advantage of the loose process, but Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and his daughter, Ivanka Trump, who both work in the West Wing, have also frustrated their colleagues for months by going directly to the president on specific issues.
预计这一流程会减少白宫西翼助手们在决策过程中的自由散漫和独揽权力。班农经常遭受利用松散流程的指责。但是特朗普的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)和女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)也在西翼工作，几个月来，他们可以就某些具体问题直接同总统交谈，这一点也令同事们沮丧。
On Kelly’s first day on the job, he held a small meeting with top aides to the president after a fuller staff meeting. He told them that Oval Office access to Trump, which was once nearly universal to people coming through the West Wing, would be strictly limited to appointments only.
凯利上任第一天，同较大范围的工作人员举行会议之后，又与总统的高级助手们举行了一个小型会议。他告诉他们，此前出入白宫西翼的人几乎都可以来到椭圆形办公室面见特朗普，但之后会受到严格限制，只有经过预约才行。
The exceptions, Kelly said, were the president’s wife and his 11-year-old son. And, he added, turning to Ivanka Trump, who was seated near him, the president’s eldest daughter, if she was speaking to him as a daughter and not a member of his staff. Kushner and Ivanka Trump quickly gave in to Kelly’s new system, two White House officials said.
凯利说，总统的妻子和他11岁的儿子是例外。他还转向坐在身边的总统长女伊万卡·特朗普补充道，如果她是以女儿，而不是工作人员的身份和他说话，也可以成为例外。两位白宫官员说，库什纳和伊万卡·特朗普很快服从了凯利的新系统。
Since Trump returned from a working vacation at his golf club in New Jersey, the newly renovated West Wing has taken on a more formal air. Not only is the door to the Oval Office closed, preventing passers-by from catching the president’s eye, but a corridor door leading to the president’s office has also been kept closed.
特朗普过完工作假期，从他在新泽西州的高尔夫球俱乐部返回后，经历革新的白宫西翼已经有了更加正式的气氛。 为防止防路过的人吸引总统的视线，椭圆形办公室的门被关上了，而且通往总统办公室的走廊门也被关闭了。
Trump, who often complained about Priebus, appears to have absorbed the need for one person to run the staff. The changes Kelly has put in place have resulted in a more streamlined, functional government, administration officials said.
经常抱怨普利巴斯的特朗普似乎明白了找一个人来管理幕僚的重要性。行政官员表示，凯利做出的改变令政府更加流程化、功能化。
But Trump, presidential experts say, has shown he is immune to efforts to bring lasting change to his own behavior. And that could ultimately undermine Kelly’s mission.
但是，研究总统的专家说，对于那些试图令他的行为产生长期变化的努力，特朗普一直表现得完全不为所动。最终，这可能会破坏凯利的使命。