On his first day in the West Wing, Rhodes remembers thinking how remarkably small the space was, and noticing that the same few dozen people he worked with at campaign headquarters in Chicago were now wearing suits instead of jeans. The enormousness of the endeavor sank in on that first day, and he realized that for all the prep work, there was no manual for how to be on the staff of the person who is running the country, particularly at a time when the global economy was in free fall and 180,000 Americans were fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. He became aware of two things at once: the weight of the issues that the president was confronted with, and the intense global interest in even the most mundane presidential communications.
罗兹记得，在白宫西配楼上班的第一天，他心想这地方可真够小的，还发现此前穿着牛仔裤跟他在芝加哥竞选总部一起工作的那几十个人，现在都西装革履。他从第一天起就知道了肩上的担子有多重，并且意识到，尽管做了许多准备工作，但关于如何做好治国者的幕僚却并没有章程可循，尤其是在全球经济呈自由落体之势、18万美国人正在伊拉克和阿富汗的战场上战斗的时候。他立刻明白了两件事：总统面对的议程极为重要；总统与外界之间哪怕是最平淡的沟通，都会引发强烈的全球性关注。
The job he was hired to do, namely to help the president of the United States communicate with the public, was changing in equally significant ways, thanks to the impact of digital technologies that people in Washington were just beginning to wrap their minds around. It is hard for many to absorb the true magnitude of the change in the news business — 40 percent of newspaper-industry professionals have lost their jobs over the past decade — in part because readers can absorb all the news they want from social-media platforms like Facebook, which are valued in the tens and hundreds of billions of dollars and pay nothing for the “content” they provide to their readers. You have to have skin in the game — to be in the news business, or depend in a life-or-death way on its products — to understand the radical and qualitative ways in which words that appear in familiar typefaces have changed. Rhodes singled out a key example to me one day, laced with the brutal contempt that is a hallmark of his private utterances. “All these newspapers used to have foreign bureaus,” he said. “Now they don’t. They call us to explain to them what’s happening in Moscow and Cairo. Most of the outlets are reporting on world events from Washington. The average reporter we talk to is 27 years old, and their only reporting experience consists of being around political campaigns. That’s a sea change. They literally know nothing.”
当时，华盛顿的人士刚刚开始对数字技术有所了解。在这些技术的影响下，罗兹受雇从事的工作——帮助美国总统与公众沟通——同样日新月异。许多人难以理解新闻行业到底发生了多大变化——过去10年间，40%的报纸从业者丢掉了工作。这在某种程度上是因为读者可以在Facebook等社交媒体平台上看到他们想看的所有新闻。这些平台的估值以百亿乃至千亿美元计，而且不必为他们提供给读者的“内容”付费。你必须有所投入——置身新闻业之中，或者成为其产品的重度依赖者——才能明白以我们熟悉的面貌出现的新闻，已经发生了根本的质变。一天，罗兹特意为我举了一个关键的例子，用他私下里的那种典型的语言风格——相当坦率地表达自己的不屑。“所有这些报纸以前都设有驻外记者站，”他说。“现在情况变了。他们打来电话，让我们跟他们解释莫斯科和开罗正在发生什么事。大多数媒体会在华盛顿报道世界新闻。采访我们的记者一般也就27岁，他们唯一的从业经验就是报道过政治竞选活动。这是翻天覆地的变化。他们其实什么都不懂。”
In this environment, Rhodes has become adept at ventriloquizing many people at once. Ned Price, Rhodes’s assistant, gave me a primer on how it’s done. The easiest way for the White House to shape the news, he explained, is from the briefing podiums, each of which has its own dedicated press corps. “But then there are sort of these force multipliers,” he said, adding, “We have our compadres, I will reach out to a couple people, and you know I wouldn’t want to name them — ”
在这种环境中，罗兹越来越善于让许多人同时当他的传声筒。罗兹的助手内德·普莱斯讲了其中的窍门。白宫塑造新闻的最简便办法，他解释道，就是利用通报平台，每个平台都有专门与其对接的记者团。“接着那些相当于力量倍增器的人士就会登场，”他说。“我们有自己的伙伴，我会主动联系几个人。你知道我不想说出他们的名字——”
“I can name them,” I said, ticking off a few names of prominent Washington reporters and columnists who often tweet in sync with White House messaging.
“我知道他们是谁,”我说，然后列举了几个知名的华盛顿记者和专栏作家的名字。白宫发消息时，他们经常在Twitter上同步发帖。
Price laughed. “I’ll say, ‘Hey, look, some people are spinning this narrative that this is a sign of American weakness,’ ” he continued, “but — ”
普莱斯笑了。“我会说，‘嘿，听着，有人把这种作法硬说成是意味着美国很怯懦，’”他继续说道，“但——”
“In fact it’s a sign of strength!” I said, chuckling.
“事实上，这是实力的体现！”我一边接过话头，一边轻轻地笑了。
“And I’ll give them some color,” Price continued, “and the next thing I know, lots of these guys are in the dot-com publishing space, and have huge Twitter followings, and they’ll be putting this message out on their own.”
“我会给它们增添一些可信度，”普莱斯又说。“我知道接下来会发生什么，很多这样的人拥有用来发表东西的网络空间，还有大批的Twitter关注者，他们会把讯息自行传播出去。”
This is something different from old-fashioned spin, which tended to be an art best practiced in person. In a world where experienced reporters competed for scoops and where carrying water for the White House was a cause for shame, no matter which party was in power, it was much harder to sustain a “narrative” over any serious period of time. Now the most effectively weaponized 140-character idea or quote will almost always carry the day, and it is very difficult for even good reporters to necessarily know where the spin is coming from or why.
老式的媒体操纵是一种个人化的艺术，而现在的则大不相同。在记者抢先发掘新闻、为白宫说话是一种耻辱的时代，不管哪个党当权，要将“叙事”维持任何一段长度的时间都要困难得多。现在，Twitter上的140字见解或引言是效率很高的武器，总能支持一段时间，即便是最好的记者，要想知道媒体操纵是从何方来，或是为什么，都是很困难的。
When I later visited Obama’s former campaign mastermind David Axelrod in Chicago, I brought up the soft Orwellian vibe of an information space where old media structures and hierarchies have been erased by Silicon Valley billionaires who convinced the suckers that information was “free” and everyone with access to Google was now a reporter. Axelrod, a former newspaperman, sighed. “It’s not as easy as standing in front of a press conference and speaking to 70 million people like past presidents have been able to do,” he said. The bully pulpit by and large doesn’t exist anymore, he explained. “So more and more, over the last couple of years, there’s been an investment in alternative means of communication: using digital more effectively, going to nontraditional sources, understanding where on each issue your constituencies are going to be found,” he said. “I think they’ve approached these major foreign-policy challenges as campaign challenges, and they’ve run campaigns, and those campaigns have been very sophisticated.”
后来我去芝加哥探访奥巴马的前竞选智囊戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)，我提起一种较为软性的奥威尔式氛围，老式媒体的结构与等级制度的信息空间被硅谷的亿万富翁们抹去，他们向那些容易上当受骗的人们保证，信息是“自由/免费”的，所有能上谷歌的人现在都能成为记者。阿克塞尔罗德之前也在报纸当过记者，他叹息道：“以前的总统们出席媒体发布会，对7000万人发言就可以了，现在要困难许多。”白宫这个“最强讲坛”多少已经不复存在，他解释说。“所以在过去几年里，对其他公关方式的投资愈来愈多：需要有效率地使用数字媒体、求助于非传统资源、在每个事件上都要了解——可以到什么地方去寻找你的支持者，”他说。“我觉得他们处理这些重大的外交政策中的挑战就像处理竞选活动中的挑战，他们已经经历过竞选，而那些竞选活动是非常复杂的。”
Rhodes’s innovative campaign to sell the Iran deal is likely to be a model for how future administrations explain foreign policy to Congress and the public. The way in which most Americans have heard the story of the Iran deal presented — that the Obama administration began seriously engaging with Iranian officials in 2013 in order to take advantage of a new political reality in Iran, which came about because of elections that brought moderates to power in that country — was largely manufactured for the purpose for selling the deal. Even where the particulars of that story are true, the implications that readers and viewers are encouraged to take away from those particulars are often misleading or false. Obama’s closest advisers always understood him to be eager to do a deal with Iran as far back as 2012, and even since the beginning of his presidency. “It’s the center of the arc,” Rhodes explained to me two days after the deal, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, was implemented. He then checked off the ways in which the administration’s foreign-policy aims and priorities converged on Iran. “We don’t have to kind of be in cycles of conflict if we can find other ways to resolve these issues,” he said. “We can do things that challenge the conventional thinking that, you know, ‘AIPAC doesn’t like this,’ or ‘the Israeli government doesn’t like this,’ or ‘the gulf countries don’t like it.’ It’s the possibility of improved relations with adversaries. It’s nonproliferation. So all these threads that the president’s been spinning — and I mean that not in the press sense — for almost a decade, they kind of all converged around Iran.”
为兜售伊朗协议，罗兹所发起的创意宣传活动堪称典范，可以供未来政府参考要如何向国会和公众解释一项外交政策。大多数美国人听到的关于伊朗协议的故事是这样的——2013年，温和势力通过选举开始在伊朗掌权，于是奥巴马政府开始认真地同伊朗官员接洽，目的是在伊朗新的政治现实中占据主动——然而这个故事是经过操纵的，目的就是说服公众接受这个协议。虽然这个故事中有些细节是真的，读者与观众却是通过这些细节，接受了若干误导或虚假的暗示。奥巴马身边的顾问都知道，他在2012年就想同伊朗达成协议，其实他担任总统伊始就已经有这个想法了。“这是叙事弧线的中心，”在这项官方名称为“联合全面行动计划”(Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action)的协议签署两天后，罗兹向我解释说。然后他解释了政府是如何把国家的外交目的与优先任务汇聚在伊朗。“如果我们能找到其他方法去解决这些问题，我们就不必置身于矛盾的循环之中，”他说。“我们可以设法挑战传统的思维方式，比如说，‘美国以色列公共事务委员会 (AIPAC)肯定不喜欢这个’，或者‘以色列政府肯定不喜欢这个’，或者‘海湾国家不喜欢这个’。这是同敌手改善关系的可能性。所以总统在将近十年间操作的所有线索——我指的不是新闻意义上的线索，最后基本上都汇聚在伊朗，”
In the narrative that Rhodes shaped, the “story” of the Iran deal began in 2013, when a “moderate” faction inside the Iranian regime led by Hassan Rouhani beat regime “hard-liners” in an election and then began to pursue a policy of “openness,” which included a newfound willingness to negotiate the dismantling of its illicit nuclear-weapons program. The president set out the timeline himself in his speech announcing the nuclear deal on July 14, 2015: “Today, after two years of negotiations, the United States, together with our international partners, has achieved something that decades of animosity has not.” While the president’s statement was technically accurate — there had in fact been two years of formal negotiations leading up to the signing of the J.C.P.O.A. — it was also actively misleading, because the most meaningful part of the negotiations with Iran had begun in mid-2012, many months before Rouhani and the “moderate” camp were chosen in an election among candidates handpicked by Iran’s supreme leader, the Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The idea that there was a new reality in Iran was politically useful to the Obama administration. By obtaining broad public currency for the thought that there was a significant split in the regime, and that the administration was reaching out to moderate-minded Iranians who wanted peaceful relations with their neighbors and with America, Obama was able to evade what might have otherwise been a divisive but clarifying debate over the actual policy choices that his administration was making. By eliminating the fuss about Iran’s nuclear program, the administration hoped to eliminate a source of structural tension between the two countries, which would create the space for America to disentangle itself from its established system of alliances with countries like Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Israel and Turkey. With one bold move, the administration would effectively begin the process of a large-scale disengagement from the Middle East.
根据罗兹塑造的叙事，伊朗协议的“故事”始于2013年，当时伊朗政权内部由哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)领导的“温和派”在选举中击败了“强硬派”，开始推行“开放”政策，包括就拆除违法核设施举行谈判的新意愿。2015年7月14日，总统在宣布核协议的讲话中为自己定下了时间表：“经过两年的谈判，今天，美国同我们的国际合作伙伴们一起，做到了多年的敌对状态下所未能做到的事情。”总统的表述在技术上是准确的——“联合全面行动计划”的签署确实经历了两年的正式谈判——但它还是有误导性，因为与伊朗的谈判中最有意义的部分是在2012年年中开始的，比鲁哈尼和“温和派”阵营上台早了好几个月，而在那场选举中，鲁哈尼和“温和派”其实是由伊朗的最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)亲手从竞选者当中挑选的。伊朗政局出现新情况的看法在政治上对奥巴马政府很有帮助。关于奥巴马政府的政策选择，本来可能会引发一场分歧很大，却能澄清事实的讨论，但是如果大众都认为伊朗政权中存在显著的分裂，而政权现在由温和的、希望同邻国与美国维持和平的伊朗人所掌握，那么奥巴马便完全可以逃避这种讨论。通过消除伊朗核设施方面争议，政府希望消除两国之间结构性紧张局面的源头，为美国提供回旋余地，将自己同沙特阿拉伯、埃及、以色列和土耳其等国之间建成的盟友体系之中解脱出来。有了这大胆的一步，政府便可以有效地开始从中东大规模撤军的进程。
The nerve center for the selling of the Iran deal to Congress, which took place in a concentrated three-month period between July and September of last year, was located inside the White House, and is referred to by its former denizens as “the war room.” Chad Kreikemeier, a Nebraskan who had worked in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, helped run the team, which included three to six people from each of several agencies, he says, which were the State Department, Treasury, the American delegation to the United Nations (i.e., Samantha Power), “at times D.O.D.” (the Department of Defense) and also the Department of Energy and the National Security Council. Rhodes “was kind of like the quarterback,” running the daily video conferences and coming up with lines of attack and parry. “He was extremely good about immediately getting to a phrase or a way of getting the message out that just made more sense,” Kreikemeier remembers. Framing the deal as a choice between peace and war was Rhodes’s go-to move — and proved to be a winning argument.
去年7月到9月这三个月的时期内，奥巴马政府需要把这项与伊朗达成的协议兜售给国会，行动的总部就在白宫里的一间办公室，白宫的前工作人员称之为“战争室”。内布拉斯加人查德·克莱克米伊尔(Chad Kreikemeier)曾在白宫法务部工作，这次也协助这个团队工作，他说，这个团队由三到六个人组成，来自不同的部门，包括国务院、财政部、美国驻联合国代表（如萨曼莎·鲍尔），“有时也有国防部的人”，以及能源部和国家安全委员会的人。罗兹“有点像四分卫”，每天主持视频会议，提出攻击和反驳的言辞。“他非常擅长马上编出一句话，或者一种提取信息，让它变得更有意思的方式，”克莱克米伊尔回忆道。罗兹常用的方法就是把是否接受这个协议当做战争与和平之间的选择——这种做法被证明是成功的。
The person whom Kreikemeier credits with running the digital side of the campaign was Tanya Somanader, 31, the director of digital response for the White House Office of Digital Strategy, who became known in the war room and on Twitter as @TheIranDeal. Early on, Rhodes asked her to create a rapid-response account that fact-checked everything related to the Iran deal. “So, we developed a plan that was like: The Iran deal is literally going to be the tip of everything that we stand up online,” Somanader says. “And we’re going to map it onto what we know about the different audiences we’re dealing with: the public, pundits, experts, the right wing, Congress.” By applying 21st-century data and networking tools to the white-glove world of foreign affairs, the White House was able to track what United States senators and the people who worked for them, and influenced them, were seeing online — and make sure that no potential negative comment passed without a tweet.
克莱克米伊尔说，这次行动中负责控制网络媒体的是31岁的塔尼亚·索玛纳达尔(Tanya Somanader)，她是白宫网络战略办公室(White House Office of Digital Strategy)的网络反应主管，战争室的人都知道她运行着@TheIranDeal这个推特账号。早些时候，罗兹要求她创立一个快速反应账号，对所有和伊朗协议有关的事进行事实核查。“于是，我们就建立了这样一个方案：伊朗协议是我们网络事务中的重中之重，”索玛纳达尔说道。“我们要把它向我们需要应付的各种不同的观众呈现出来：公众、内行、专家、右翼、国会。”在外交事务这个秘密操作的世界里采用21世纪的信息与网络工具，白宫可以追踪到美国参议院，以及为他们工作的人，乃至能够影响他们的人在网络上都看些什么，确保没有任何潜在的负面评论不经官方tweet解释就传递出去。
As she explained how the process worked, I was struck by how naïve the assumption of a “state of nature” must seem in an information environment that is mediated less and less by experienced editors and reporters with any real prior knowledge of the subjects they write about. “People construct their own sense of source and credibility now,” she said. “They elect who they’re going to believe.” For those in need of more traditional-seeming forms of validation, handpicked Beltway insiders like Jeffrey Goldberg of The Atlantic and Laura Rozen of Al-Monitor helped retail the administration’s narrative. “Laura Rozen was my RSS feed,” Somanader offered. “She would just find everything and retweet it.”
她在解释如何具体运作时，我强烈地感觉到，在如今的信息环境中，认为某种情况是“真实情况”的想法是多么天真，因为如今的信息越来越少地经过有经验的编辑和记者过滤——他们对自己写过的内容拥有可靠的背景知识。“如今，人们对于哪些信息来源可信有自己的判断，”她说，“他们自己选择要去相信谁。”对那些需要更传统的证实方式的人，他们精心挑选了一些政治核心的内部人士，帮助散布政府的描述，比如《大西洋》月刊(The Atlantic)的杰弗里·戈德伯格(Jeffrey Goldberg)和“观察”网站(Al-Monitor)的劳拉·罗森(Laura Rozen)。“劳拉·罗森是我的RSS订阅源，”索玛纳达尔说，“她不管找到什么都转发。”
Rhodes’s messaging campaign was so effective not simply because it was a perfectly planned and executed example of digital strategy, but also because he was personally involved in guiding the deal itself. In July 2012, Jake Sullivan, a close aide to Hillary Clinton, traveled to Muscat, Oman, for the first meeting with the Iranians, taking a message from the White House. “It was, ‘We’re prepared to open a direct channel to resolve the nuclear agreement if you are prepared to do the same thing and authorize it at the highest levels and engage in a serious discussion on these issues,’ ” Sullivan remembers. “Once that was agreed to, it was quickly decided that we resolve the nuclear agreement in two steps, the interim agreement and the final agreement.” Subsequent meetings with the Iranians followed, during which he was joined by Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns. “Bill and I had a huge amount of license to explore what the terms would look like, within the negotiating parameters,” Sullivan says. “What the precise trade-offs would be, between forms of sanctions relief and forms of restraints on their programs, that was left to us to feel out.”
罗兹的信息战非常有效，不仅是因为它是精心策划和执行的数字策略典范，而且是因为他亲自参与引导这一协议。2012年7月，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的亲密助手杰克·沙利文(Jake Sullivan)前往阿曼首都马斯喀特，首次与伊朗方面会晤。他收到来自白宫的一条消息。“消息说，‘我们已准备好开辟一个直接渠道，解决核协议问题——如果你们已准备好做同样的事情，并且给予最高授权，并就这些问题进行严肃讨论，’”沙利文回忆说，“这一点达成共识后，我们很快决定分两步解决核协议问题，也就是达成一个临时协议和一个最终协议。”后来又与伊朗方面进行了几次会晤，副国务卿比尔·伯恩斯(Bill Burns)也加入进来。“我和比尔获得了很大的授权，在谈判框架内探讨具体的条款，”沙利文说，“需要我们来具体把握如何在减轻制裁和限制核项目之间取得平衡。”
The fact that the president largely let his surrogates do the talking and the selling of the Iran deal — and even now, rarely talks about it in public — does not reflect his level of direct engagement. Sullivan and Burns spent hours before and after every session in Oman with the president and his closest advisers in the White House. When the president wasn’t present, Rhodes always was. “Ben and I, in particular, the two of us, spent a lot of time thinking through all the angles,” Sullivan says. “We spent three, four, five hours together in Washington talking things through before the meetings.” In March 2013, a full three months before the elections that elevated Hassan Rouhani to the office of president, Sullivan and Burns finalized their proposal for an interim agreement, which became the basis for the J.C.P.O.A.
总统主要让自己的代理人谈论和宣传伊朗协议——直到现在，总统也很少公开谈论此事——但这并不能反映出他直接参与的程度。在阿曼的每次会议前后，沙利文和伯恩斯都要花费数小时与总统以及他在白宫最亲密的顾问进行讨论。总统不出席的时候，罗兹总会参与。“我和本，主要是我们俩，花了很多时间从各种角度去思考，”沙利文说，“开会前，我们要在华盛顿花费三到五个小时把事情谈清楚。”2013年3月，在哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)当选总统整整三个月之前，沙利文和伯恩斯完成了暂时协议的提案，那成为联合全面行动计划(JCPOA)的基础。
The White House point person during the later stage of the negotiations was Rob Malley, a favored troubleshooter who is currently running negotiations that could keep the Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad in power. During the course of the Iran talks, Malley told me, he always kept in close contact with Rhodes. “I would often just call him and say, ‘Give me a reality check,’ ” Malley explained. “He could say, ‘Here is where I think the president is, and here is where I think he will be.’ ” He continued, “Ben would try to anticipate: Does it make sense policywise? But then he would also ask himself: How do we sell it to Congress? How do we sell it to the public? What is it going to do to our narrative?”
在后期谈判中，白宫的焦点人物是罗布·马利(Rob Malley)。他是一位深受喜爱的纠纷调解者，目前正在进行可能保留叙利亚独裁者巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)执政权的谈判。马利告诉我，在伊朗谈判中，他一直与罗兹保持密切联系。“我经常给他打电话说，‘我需要核实一下现状，’”马利说，“他会说，‘我觉得总统目前是这样想的，我觉得将来总统可能会那样想。’”他接着说，“本会努力预测：从政策角度讲这合理吗？但他接着又会问自己：我们怎么说服国会？怎么说服公众？这又会如何影响到我们的陈述？”
Malley is a particularly keen observer of the changing art of political communication; his father, Simon Malley, who was born in Cairo, edited the politics magazine Afrique Asie and proudly provided a platform for Fidel Castro and Yasir Arafat, in the days when the leaders’ words might take weeks to travel from Cuba or Cairo to Paris. “The Iran experience was the place where I saw firsthand how policy, politics and messaging all had to be brought together, and I think that Ben is really at the intersection of all three,” Malley says. “He reflects and he shapes at the same time.”
马利对不断变化的政治沟通艺术有着非常敏锐的观察。他的父亲西蒙·马利(Simon Malley)出生于开罗，曾担任政治杂志《亚非》(Afrique Asie)的编辑，该杂志为菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)和亚西尔·阿拉法特(Yasir Arafat)提供了一个平台，这令他父亲感到骄傲，因为当时这两位领导人的言论要花费数周才能从古巴或开罗传到巴黎。“伊朗谈判让我亲眼看到政策、政治和信息必须融合到一起，我觉得本真的处于这三者的交叉点，”马利说，“他在思考的同时进行重塑。”
As Malley and representatives of the State Department, including Wendy Sherman and Secretary of State John Kerry, engaged in formal negotiations with the Iranians, to ratify details of a framework that had already been agreed upon, Rhodes’s war room did its work on Capitol Hill and with reporters. In the spring of last year, legions of arms-control experts began popping up at think tanks and on social media, and then became key sources for hundreds of often-clueless reporters. “We created an echo chamber,” he admitted, when I asked him to explain the onslaught of freshly minted experts cheerleading for the deal. “They were saying things that validated what we had given them to say.”
在马利和国务院的代表们——包括温迪·谢尔曼(Wendy Sherman)和国务卿约翰·凯利(John Kerry)——在与伊朗方面进行正式政治谈判时，也就是批准已经达成一致的协议框架的细节时，罗兹的战争办公室在应对国会和记者们。去年春天，智囊团中和社交媒体上猛然出现大量军备控制专家，他们成为数百名大多毫无头绪的记者的主要信息来源。我让罗兹解释为这一协议呐喊的“新晋”专家们的猛攻时，他承认，“我们制造了一个回音室。他们说的话是我们告诉他们的。”
When I suggested that all this dark metafictional play seemed a bit removed from rational debate over America’s future role in the world, Rhodes nodded. “In the absence of rational discourse, we are going to discourse the [expletive] out of this,” he said. “We had test drives to know who was going to be able to carry our message effectively, and how to use outside groups like Ploughshares, the Iran Project and whomever else. So we knew the tactics that worked.” He is proud of the way he sold the Iran deal. “We drove them crazy,” he said of the deal’s opponents.
当我提到所有这些黑暗的超小说手段似乎有点偏离关于美国未来的世界角色的理智辩论时，罗兹点头承认。“在不能进行理智对话时，我们就只能[咒骂语]这么讲，”他说。“我们已经试过了，知道谁能有效传达我们的信息，知道如何利用外部组织，比如梨头基金会(Ploughshares)和“伊朗项目”组织(Iran Project)之类的。所以我们知道哪些策略有用。”他对自己宣传伊朗协议的方法感到骄傲。“我们把他们逼疯了，”他提到这一协议的反对者时说。
Yet Rhodes bridled at the suggestion that there has been anything deceptive about the way that the agreement itself was sold. “Look, with Iran, in a weird way, these are state-to-state issues. They’re agreements between governments. Yes, I would prefer that it turns out that Rouhani and Zarif” — Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister — “are real reformers who are going to be steering this country into the direction that I believe it can go in, because their public is educated and, in some respects, pro-American. But we are not betting on that.”
不过，罗兹否认宣传协议的方式存在任何欺诈。“你知道，奇怪的是，伊朗问题涉及国与国之间的关系问题。这是政府之间的协议。是的，我很希望，结果证明，鲁哈尼和扎里夫（他指的是伊朗外交部长穆罕默德·賈瓦德·扎里夫[Mohammad Javad Zarif]）是真的想要改革，想让这个国家转向我认为它可以前进的方向，因为那里的民众受过教育，从某些方面讲，是亲美的。但我们不敢保证。”
In fact, Rhodes’s passion seems to derive not from any investment in the technical specifics of sanctions or centrifuge arrays, or any particular optimism about the future course of Iranian politics and society. Those are matters for the negotiators and area specialists. Rather, it derived from his own sense of the urgency of radically reorienting American policy in the Middle East in order to make the prospect of American involvement in the region’s future wars a lot less likely. When I asked whether the prospect of this same kind of far-reaching spin campaign being run by a different administration is something that scares him, he admitted that it does. “I mean, I’d prefer a sober, reasoned public debate, after which members of Congress reflect and take a vote,” he said, shrugging. “But that’s impossible.”
实际上，罗兹的热情似乎不是因为他对制裁的技术细节很有研究，也不是因为他对伊朗的政治和社会前景特别乐观——那是谈判代表和专家们关心的问题——而是因为他自己觉得美国的中东政策急需做出重大调整，以大幅降低美国参与未来中东地区战争的可能性。当我问他，如果另一届政府采取同样的影响广泛的舆论战略，他是否会感到害怕时，他承认他会。“我的意思是，我更希望进行冷静合理的公开辩论，然后国会议员进行思考并投票表决，”他耸了耸肩说道。“但那是不可能的。”