WASHINGTON — Even as China scrambled fighter jets to enforce its newly declared air defense zone, the Obama administration said on Friday that it was advising American commercial airlines to comply with China’s demands to be notified in advance of flights through the area.
华盛顿——周五，正当中国紧急派遣战机去保卫它最近宣布的防空识别区时，奥巴马政府表示，它已建议美国的商业航空公司遵守中国的要求，在飞机途径这片区域的情况下提前通知中国。
While the United States continued to defy China by sending military planes into the zone unannounced, administration officials said they had made the decision to urge civilian planes to adhere to Beijing’s new rules in part because they worried about an unintended confrontation.
虽然美国仍然在不做提前通知的情况下派军机进入该区域，无视中国的要求，但美国政府官员表示，他们已决定敦促民用飞机遵守中国的新规定，部分原因是担心引起意外冲突。
Although the officials made clear that the administration rejects China’s unilateral declaration of control of the airspace over a large area of the East China Sea, the guidance to the airlines could be interpreted in the region as a concession in the battle of wills with China.
虽然美国官员已明确表示，美国政府不承认中国对东海广阔空域单边宣布的控制权，但他们向美国航空公司发布的行卫指南却可以被理解为，他们在与中国的意志较量中做出了让步。
“The U.S. government generally expects that U.S. carriers operating internationally will operate consistent with” notice requirements “issued by foreign countries,” the State Department said in a statement, adding that that “does not indicate U.S. government acceptance of China’s requirements.”
“美国政府总体上期望从事国际业务的航空公司能遵守其他国家发布的”通知要求，美国国务院在声明中说。它还表示，这“并不表示美国政府接受中国的要求”。
The decision contrasted with that of Japan’s government this week, when it asked several Japanese airlines, which were voluntarily following China’s rules, to stop, apparently out of fear that complying with the rules would add legitimacy to Chinese claims to islands that sit below the now contested airspace. China’s newly declared zone, experts say, is intended mainly to whittle away at Japan’s hold on the islands, which it has long administered.
这个要求与日本政府上周的要求形成了对比。日本政府已要求几家自愿遵守中国规定的日本航空公司停止这种做法，明显是担心遵守规定的做法会使中国对争议空域下方岛屿的主权主张显得更加合法。专家表示，中国最近宣布的防空识别区主要是为了削弱日本对这些岛屿的控制权，后者长期处于日本管辖之下。
On Saturday, a Japanese Foreign Ministry official said, “We will not comment on what other countries are doing with regard to filing flight plans.” It was not immediately clear if the Obama administration had notified Japan, a close ally, of its decision.
日本外务省(Japanese Foreign Ministry)的一名官员周六称，“我们不会评价其他国家报备航空计划的做法。”目前尚不清楚，美国政府是否曾向亲密盟友日本通报自己的决定。
An official at Japan’s Transport Ministry said it had no immediate change to its advice to Japanese airlines.
日本国土交通省的一名官员称，它目前并没有改变给日本航空公司的建议。
The American decision drew criticism from some quarters. Stephen Yates, a former Asia adviser to Dick Cheney when he was vice president, said it was “a bad move” that would undercut allies in the region that take a different stance.
美国的决定引来了一些阵营的批判。迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)担任副总统期间的亚洲事务顾问斯蒂芬·耶茨(Stephen Yates)说，这是一个“糟糕的举动”，将会给持不同立场的地区盟友造成损害。
But Strobe Talbott, a former deputy secretary of state under Bill Clinton and now president of the Brookings Institution, said it was important to avoid an accident while drawing a firm line. “The principal option is to be extremely clear that disputes” over territory “must be resolved through diplomacy and not unilateral action,” he said.
但是，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)时期的副国务卿、现任布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)会长的斯特罗布·塔尔博特(Strobe Talbott)说，重要的是在坚定表明立场的情况下避免事故。他说，“首要的选项就是要十分清楚地表明”，关于领土的“争议必须通过外交手段而非单边行动来解决。”
American officials said they began having talks with airlines on Wednesday and characterized the guidance Friday as simply following established international air protocols independent of any political deliberations. The American announcement came on the same day that Chinese state news media said that China sent jets aloft and that they identified two American surveillance planes and 10 Japanese aircraft in the air defense zone the country declared last weekend.
美国官员表示，他们从周三开始与航空公司商谈，并于周五表示，这些行动指南只是在遵守既有的国际航空协议，根本不掺杂任何政治考量。就在美国宣布该决定的同一天，中国国家媒体报道称，中国已派出飞机，并已确认有两架美国侦察机和10架日本飞机在中国上上周末宣布的防空识别区内飞行。
Although there was no indication that China’s air force showed any hostile intent, the move raised tensions. The Chinese had also sent jets on patrol into the contested airspace the day before, but Xinhua, the state-run news agency, indicated that the planes on Friday were scrambled specifically to respond to foreign jets in the area.
虽然中国空军尚未表现出任何敌意，但这个举动还是加剧了紧张气氛。之前的一天，中国也曾派飞机进入争议空域进行巡逻，中国国家通讯社新华社却表示，周五派出的飞机主要是为了回应这个区域内的外国飞机。
Earlier in the week, the United States sent unarmed B-52s into the area, and they proceeded unimpeded. China then appeared to back down somewhat from its initial declaration that planes must file advance flight plans or face possible military action.
上周早些时候，美国曾派没有武器装备的B-52s进入该空域，飞机并未受到阻拦。随后，中国似乎对它最初的声明做出了让步。中国最初表示，飞机必须提前提交飞行计划，否则就有可能面临军事行动。
The administration’s decision on Friday underscored the delicate position President Obama finds himself in, drawn into a geopolitical dispute that will test how far he is willing to go to contain China’s rising regional ambitions.
美国政府周五的决定突显奥巴马总统已经意识到自己处境微妙，意识到自己卷入了一场地缘政治争议，这场争议将考验他愿意付出多大的努力来遏制中国日益增长的地区野心。
China’s move thrust the United States into the middle of the already prickly territorial clash between Beijing and Tokyo, a position the administration had avoided for months even while reiterating that the mutual defense treaty with Japan covers the islands. After the Chinese declaration last weekend, American officials feared that, if left unchallenged, the Chinese action would lead to ever greater claims elsewhere in the Pacific region.
中国的举措将美国推入了中日之间本已棘手的领土争端，数月来，美国政府一直在避免这种处境，即便美国一再重申，美日共同防御条约涵盖了这些岛屿。中国上上周末宣布划设防空识别区后，美国官员担心，如果听之任之，中国的举动将会发展成对太平洋地区其他地方更大的领土要求。
But with planes flying so fast and in such proximity, the administration’s worries grew that an accident or an unintended confrontation could spiral out of control. A midair collision between a Chinese fighter jet and an American spy plane off the coast of China in 2001 killed the fighter pilot and forced the spy plane to make an emergency landing on Hainan Island, setting off a diplomatic episode until Beijing released the American crew and sent the plane back, broken into parts.
但由于飞机飞行速度很快，相互之间的距离又很近，美国政府越来越担心，可能会出现事故或意外对抗，进而导致局势失控。2001年，一架中国战斗机与一架美国侦察机在中国沿海地区上空发生碰撞，导致战斗机驾驶员身亡，侦察机被迫在海南紧急降落。该事件引发了外交事件，直到北京方面释放美方机组成员并将飞机送回为止，送回来的飞机已经解体。
“The challenge here, as with April 2001, is when you have an unexpected crisis, things escalate very, very quickly without any plans for de-escalation,” said Jon M. Huntsman Jr., Mr. Obama’s first ambassador to China. “That’s one of the big challenges we have in the U.S.-China relationship.”
“就像2001年4月一样，问题在于，意外危机出现之后，事情很快、很快就会升级，没有任何缓和局势的方案，”奥巴马的首任驻华大使洪博培(Jon M. Huntsman Jr.)说。“这是我们在美中关系当中面临的巨大挑战之一。”
One of the biggest challenges for Mr. Obama will be navigating the complicated personalities of leaders in Tokyo and Beijing. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, a strong nationalist, has vowed to stand firm against any Chinese encroachments, while President Xi Jinping of China has recently taken over as leader and has promised to advance a strong foreign policy meant to win his country more recognition as an international power.
对于奥巴马来说，如何应对中日领导人的复杂性格将会成为最大的挑战之一。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)是一个强硬的民族主义者，发誓要坚决反对中国的任何侵占行为，最近成为中国国家主席的习近平则承诺推行强硬的外交政策，以便为中国的大国地位赢得更多的认可。
The two countries have been at odds for years over the uninhabited islands known as Diaoyu by the Chinese and Senkaku by the Japanese. The United States does not take a position on the dispute.
多年来，两国一直在为前述无人岛屿争执不休，中国称这些岛屿为钓鱼岛，日本称之为尖阁诸岛。美国没有就这一争端表态。
Although administration officials believe China’s actions are mainly meant to give it an advantage in its struggle with Japan over the islands, experts on Asia say they also fit China’s larger goal of establishing itself as the dominant power in the region, displacing the United States.
虽然美国政府官员认为中国的举动主要是为了在中日岛屿争端中占据优势，但一些亚洲问题专家表示，这也符合中国的更大目标：取代美国，确立自己在亚洲的主导地位。
Administration officials said they decided to proceed with routine military training and surveillance flights so as not to legitimize China’s assertion of control over the airspace or encourage it to establish a similar air zone over the South China Sea, where it has other territorial disputes. China had said it expected to set up other air defense zones, and experts said they expected one to cover that sea.
政府官员表示，他们决定继续进行例行军事训练及侦察飞行，因为他们不想任由中国的空域控制权主张合法化，也不想鼓励中国在南海设立类似的防空区。中国在南海地区也面临领土争端。中国已经表示了设立其他防空区的打算，专家们表示，中国的打算是设立一个涵盖南海的防空区。
“We don’t want this to be the first in what would be a series of assertive moves,” said an administration official, who insisted on anonymity to discuss a delicate diplomatic matter. “The whole area’s fraught.”
“我们不希望这是一系列专横举措中的首个行动，”一名政府官员说，“整个地区都忧心忡忡。”由于谈话涉及敏感外交事件，这名官员坚持匿名。
Mr. Obama is sending Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to the region next week, when he will meet with Mr. Xi and Mr. Abe as well as South Korea’s leader. Although the trip was previously scheduled, it will put Mr. Biden in the center of the dispute, and aides said he would deliver a message of caution to both sides to avoid escalation.
奥巴马本周将派副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)前往亚洲地区，后者将与习近平、安倍晋三及韩国领导人会面。虽然此次亚洲之行出于早前的安排，但却还是会将拜登置于争端中心。助手们表示，拜登将劝告双方保持谨慎，避免事态升级。
Many countries, including the United States and Japan, have air defense zones, but the coordinates of the Chinese zone overlap those of Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
包括美国及日本在内的很多国家都设有防空区，但中国的防空区与日本、韩国及台湾的识别区有重叠。
Peter Dutton, the director of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the United States Naval War College, said the new air zone also gives China a legal structure to intercept American surveillance flights in international airspace, which have long irritated Beijing. “It is clear that the Chinese do not seek regional stability on any level,” he said. “They intend to be disruptive in order to remake the Asian regional system in accordance with their preferences.”
美国海军战争学院(United States Naval War College)中国海事研究所(China Maritime Studies Institute)所长彼得·达顿(Peter Dutton)表示，新防空区还给中国提供了在国际空域拦截美国侦察机的法律架构，北京方面早就对美国侦察机感到不满。“很明显，中国没打算寻求任何层面的地区稳定，”他说。“他们打算采取破坏性举动，以便根据自己的偏好重塑亚洲地区体系。”