WASHINGTON — President Obama on Monday announced that he would tighten standards on the provision and use of military-style equipment by local police departments, but he stopped short of curtailing the transfer of such hardware or weapons to the local authorities.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周一宣布，他将收紧地方警察部门的军用装备补给和使用标准，但是并没有对向地方当局输送此类装备或武器进行限制。
After a review of the government’s decade-old strategy of outfitting local police forces with military equipment, the White House concluded that the vast majority of these transfers strengthen local policing, but that the government should impose consistent standards in the types of hardware it offers, better training in how to use it and more thorough oversight.
在地方警察部队的军事装备使用方面，政府实施的策略已有十年历史，白宫在对这些策略进行评估后得出结论，这些装备输送在绝大多数时候能够加强地方警力，但政府应该执行更统一的标准，以控制所供应装备的类型，加强装备应用培训，并进行更充分的监管。
Mr. Obama announced the steps at a cabinet meeting that was called to deal with lingering tensions from fiery clashes between the police and protesters in Ferguson, Mo., which broke out after a grand jury declined to indict a police officer for fatally shooting an unarmed black teenager.
奥巴马是在一次内阁会议上宣布这些措施的，召集该会议的目的是就密苏里州弗格森的局势寻找对策，在一个大陪审团得出决议，对一名枪杀了未携带武器的黑人少年的警官不予起诉后，警方和抗议者之间爆发激烈冲突，此后当地的气氛一直紧张。
The government also announced a $263 million program that will provide up to 50,000 body cameras for the police. The video footage from these cameras could help clarify disputed incidents like the deadly encounter between the teenager in Ferguson, Michael Brown, and the police officer, Darren Wilson.
政府还宣布了一项2.63亿美元的项目，将向警方提供最多5万部随身式摄像头。这些摄像头得到的视频素材可以用于澄清一些争议性事件，例如弗格森少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)和达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)警官之间的那场致命遭遇。
Mr. Obama is also meeting on Monday with civil rights leaders and law enforcement officials to discuss the stubborn mistrust between the police and the public in African-American communities. But the White House said that the president would not visit Ferguson this week, as a tense calm has prevailed there.
奥巴马在周一还和民权领袖、执法部门官员会面，讨论警察和非裔美国人社区之间难以化解的不信任感。但白宫表示，考虑到笼罩当地的对峙情绪，总统不会在本周前往弗格森。
The limited nature of the White House’s response testifies to the reality that transferring military-style gear to police departments remains politically popular in Congress and with the municipalities. While Congress held hearings after the initial unrest in Ferguson last summer, it has not acted to curb its grants and transfers of such equipment.
白宫的这种本质上很有限的反应，证明向警察部队输送军用装备的策略，在政治上仍然是受国会和地方政府欢迎的。在去年夏天弗格森爆发最初的骚乱时，国会举行了听证会，但它并没有限制此类装备的拨发和输送。
The militarization of the police is part of a broader counterterrorism strategy of fortifying American cities, which took root after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Curtailing the transfers, experts said, would be a reversal of years of policy and has little support in Congress.
警察军事化是2001年9月11日的恐怖主义袭击后开始的美国城市反恐固防大战略的一部分。专家称，对这类输送加以限制，等于逆转一项实施多年的战略，在国会是找不到多少支持的。
With no legislation on the horizon, Mr. Obama has focused instead on standardizing regulations across the federal agencies that supply the equipment to cities and towns. He will also seek to improve training and require “after action” reports for accidents involving federally funded equipment.
眼见接下来的日子里立法无望，奥巴马已经把注意力转向监管制度的标准化，对向各个城镇提供装备的各联邦机构实施统一的监管。他还将致力于增加培训，要求针对涉及联邦拨发设备的事件提供“行动后”报告。
The report, the White House said, found “a lack of consistency in how federal programs are structured, implemented and audited.” Criticism of the practices swelled after the police, in full body armor and on heavily armed vehicles, confronted protesters with assault rifles.
白宫称，报告发现“联邦项目的构建、实施和审核缺乏一致性。”在穿着全身护甲、配备重火力车辆的警察用突击步枪与抗议者对峙的情形发生后，这类装备输送的措施引起了广泛的批评。
But administration officials noted that only 4 percent of the surplus equipment that comes from the Pentagon is actually combat-ready hardware. Most of it is office equipment.
但是政府官员指出，五角大楼提供的剩余装备中，只有4%是真正可用于作战的装备。大多数是办公装备。
The White House’s moves came on a carefully orchestrated day of meetings to telegraph a robust White House response to the unrest in Ferguson. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. was to travel to Atlanta on Monday evening to meet with law enforcement officials and community leaders, the first stop on what officials said would be a nationwide tour.
白宫是在精心安排了一天的会议后宣布前述举措的，目的是表露白宫在应对弗格森骚乱一事上的决心。司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)在周一晚间前往亚特兰大，与执法部门官员和社区领导人见面。官方称，这是一个全国性的巡回视察之旅，亚特兰大是第一站。