Picture him as a young man, standing on the waterfront in North Williamsburg, at a polling site, on Sept. 11, 2001, which was Election Day in New York City. He saw the planes hit the towers, an unforgettable moment of sheer disbelief followed by panic and shock and lasting horror, a scene that eerily reminded him, in the aftermath, of the cover of the Don DeLillo novel “Underworld.”
试想年轻的他站在北威廉斯堡湖滨的一个投票站，那天是2001年9月11日，也是纽约市的选举日。他望着飞机撞向世贸中心双子塔，那令人难忘的一刻先是让人感到绝对无法置信，继之而来的是震惊和慌乱，最后变成了持久的恐惧。后来，这一幕总是莫名让他想起唐·德里罗(Don DeLillo)的小说《地下世界》(Underworld)的封面。
Everything changed that day. But the way it changed Ben Rhodes’s life is still unique, and perhaps not strictly believable, even as fiction. He was in the second year of the M.F.A. program at N.Y.U., writing short stories about losers in garden apartments and imagining that soon he would be published in literary magazines, acquire an agent and produce a novel by the time he turned 26. He saw the first tower go down, and after that he walked around for a while, until he ran into someone he knew, and they went back to her shared Williamsburg apartment and tried to find a television that worked, and when he came back outside, everyone was taking pictures of the towers in flames. He saw an Arab guy sobbing on the subway. “That image has always stayed with me,” he says. “Because I think he knew more than we did about what was going to happen.” Writing Frederick Barthelme knockoffs suddenly seemed like a waste of time.
那一天改变了所有的一切。但它以一种独一无二的方式改变了本·罗兹(Ben Rhodes)的人生，或许写进小说里都让人难以相信。当时他在纽约大学读艺术硕士学位，已经到了第二年；有时写些短篇小说，主人公是那些住在花园公寓里的失败者。他幻想着不久后这些小说能在文学杂志上发表，好让自己有个经纪人，到26岁时可以写本长篇小说。他眼看着第一座楼倒掉了，然后到处乱转了一会儿，遇到一个自己认识的人，两人回到她在威廉斯堡与人合租的公寓，找到一台能看的电视打开看了看。他走出去的时候，所有人都在给燃烧中的双子塔拍照片。他在地铁里看到一个哭泣的阿拉伯男人。“我永远忘不了那幅画面，”他说。“因为我觉得，他比我们更清楚到底在发生什么。”突然之间，创作弗里德里克·巴塞尔姆(Frederick Barthelme)式的小说好像成了浪费时间。
“I immediately developed this idea that, you know, maybe I want to try to write about international affairs,” he explained. “In retrospect, I had no idea what that meant.” His mother’s closest friend growing up ran the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, which then published Foreign Policy. He sent her a letter and included what would wind up being his only piece of published fiction, a short story that appeared in The Beloit Fiction Journal. It was titled “The Goldfish Smiles, You Smile Back.” The story still haunts him, he says, because “it foreshadowed my entire life.”
“你知道，我突然有了这个念头，我可能应该试着写点国际事务方面的东西，”他解释道。“回想起来，这到底意味着什么，我其实也没有概念。”他母亲有个从小的好朋友在管理卡耐基国际和平基金(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)，《外交政策》(Foreign Policy)当时就是这个基金会出版的。他给她写了一封信，其中附上了他在《贝洛伊特小说期刊》(Beloit Fiction Journal)上发表过的一篇短篇小说，后来这成了他发表过的唯一一篇小说。它的名字是《金鱼笑了，你也笑了》。他说，这个故事到现在还在自己脑海里挥之不去，因为“它预言了我的整个人生”。
It’s the day of President Obama’s final State of the Union address, Jan. 12, and the news inside the White House is not good. Luckily, the reporters on the couch in the West Wing waiting room don’t know it yet. The cream of the crop are here this early p.m. for a private, off-the-record lunch with the president, who will preview his annual remarks to Congress over a meal that is reported to be among the best in the White House chef’s repertoire.
今年1月12日，是奥巴马总统做任内最后一次国情咨文的日子，白宫内部有坏消息。幸运的是，坐在白宫西翼等候室沙发上的记者们还不知情。中午刚过，白宫的精英团队们正在这里和总统吃私底下的非正式午餐，而总统将在晚宴上向国会发布他的年度报告，据报道，那顿饭上全都是白宫大厨最经典的拿手菜。
“Blitzer!” a man calls out. A small figure in a long navy cashmere overcoat turns around, in mock surprise.
“布利策！”有个男人叫道。一个穿着长长的藏青色羊绒大衣的小个子男人带着装出来的惊讶转过身来。
“You don’t write, you don’t call,” Wolf Blitzer, the CNN anchorman, parries.
“你又不写邮件，又不打电话，”CNN主播沃尔夫·布利策(Wolf Blitzer)躲闪着。
“Well, you can call,” shoots back his former colleague Roland Martin. Their repartee thus concluded, they move on to the mutually fascinating subject of Washington traffic jams. “I used to have a 9:30 hit on CNN,” Martin reminisces. “The office was 8.2 miles from my home. It took me 45 minutes.” The CBS News anchor Scott Pelley tells a story about how members of the press destroyed the lawn during the Monica Lewinsky scandal and were told that they would be allowed back once the grass was replanted. The National Park Service replanted the grass outside the White House, but the journalists weren’t allowed back on the lawn.
“这个，你可以打给我啊，”他的前同事罗兰·马丁(Roland Martin)回答。两人唇枪舌剑了几句，最后聊起共同感兴趣的问题：华盛顿的交通拥堵。“我以前有个9:30开播的CNN强档节目，”马丁回忆。“办公室离家13公里，我开车得用45分钟的时间。”CBS新闻主播斯科特·佩利(Scott Pelley)讲了一个故事：莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)丑闻事件中，媒体踩坏了白宫的草坪，结果他们被告知，要等草都长好才能再来。后来国家公园管理局种好了白宫外面的草，记者们却被禁止再次踏上草坪。
Unnoticed by the reporters, Ben Rhodes walks through the room, a half-beat behind a woman in leopard-print heels. He is holding a phone to his ear, repeating his mantra: “I’m not important. You’re important.”
记者们没有注意到，本·罗兹紧随着一个脚穿豹纹高跟鞋的女人走过房间，他把手机紧贴耳朵，口里重复着他的箴言：“我并不重要。你才重要。”
The Boy Wonder of the Obama White House is now 38. He heads downstairs to his windowless basement office, which is divided into two parts. In the front office, his assistant, Rumana Ahmed, and his deputy, Ned Price, are squeezed behind desks, which face a large television screen, from which CNN blares nonstop. Large pictures of Obama adorn the walls. Here is the president adjusting Rhodes’s tie; presenting his darling baby daughter, Ella, with a flower; and smiling wide while playing with Ella on a giant rug that says “E Pluribus Unum.”
这位奥巴马政府中的神奇小子今年38岁了。他走下台阶，来到自己没有窗子的地下室办公室，它被分隔成两部分，前面的办公间里，他的助理拉马纳·艾哈迈德(Rumana Ahmed)和他的副手奈德·普莱斯(Ned Price)各自缩在正对着一块巨大电视屏幕的办公桌后面。电视里，CNN正在无休无止地高声播报着新闻。墙上装点着几张奥巴马的大幅照片。其中一张是总统帮罗兹整理领带；还有一张是总统送给罗兹的小女儿艾拉一朵花；还有一张是他和艾拉在一块巨大的地毯上玩耍，地毯上写着“合众为一”字样。
For much of the past five weeks, Rhodes has been channeling the president’s consciousness into what was imagined as an optimistic, forward-looking final State of the Union. Now, from the flat screens, a challenge to that narrative arises: Iran has seized two small boats containing 10 American sailors. Rhodes found out about the Iranian action earlier that morning but was trying to keep it out of the news until after the president’s speech. “They can’t keep a secret for two hours,” Rhodes says, with a tone of mild exasperation at the break in message discipline.
在过去的五个星期，罗兹大部分时间里都在忙着把总统的想法变为那篇理应积极乐观、向前看的最后国情咨文。现在，面前的电视屏幕里播放的事情仿佛是对那些话的挑战：伊朗扣押了两条小船，上面有10名美国船员。罗兹当天早上就知道了伊朗的这个行动，但试图等总统讲话结束后再向媒体透露。“他们没法保守秘密超过两小时，”罗兹说，对于这种破坏信息纪律的行为，他的声音里有着微微的愠怒。
As the deputy national security adviser for strategic communications, Rhodes writes the president’s speeches, plans his trips abroad and runs communications strategy across the White House, tasks that, taken individually, give little sense of the importance of his role. He is, according to the consensus of the two dozen current and former White House insiders I talked to, the single most influential voice shaping American foreign policy aside from Potus himself. The president and Rhodes communicate “regularly, several times a day,” according to Denis McDonough, Obama’s chief of staff, who is known for captaining a tight ship. “I see it throughout the day in person,” he says, adding that he is sure that in addition to the two to three hours that Rhodes might spend with Obama daily, the two men communicate remotely throughout the day via email and phone calls. Rhodes strategized and ran the successful Iran-deal messaging campaign, helped negotiate the opening of American relations with Cuba after a hiatus of more than 50 years and has been a co-writer of all of Obama’s major foreign-policy speeches. “Every day he does 12 jobs, and he does them better than the other people who have those jobs,” Terry Szuplat, the longest-tenured member of the National Security Council speechwriting corps, told me. On the largest and smallest questions alike, the voice in which America speaks to the world is that of Ben Rhodes.
作为战略公关方面的国家安全事务副助理，罗兹为总统撰写讲稿，安排他的国外行程、统筹整个白宫的公关战略，这些任务是分别执行的，几乎让人意识不到他的角色有多么重要。我采访过的20多个现任或前任白宫内部人士一致认为，除了美国总统本人之外，罗兹是打造美国外交政策的最重要的人，没有之一。总统与罗兹“经常沟通，有时候一天几次”，奥巴马的幕僚长丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)说。人们知道，他管理奥巴马幕僚班底十分严格。“我整天都能看到他们在碰面，”他还说，他敢肯定，罗兹和奥巴马不仅每天都要会面两三个小时，还经常通过电子邮件和电话远程交流。他规划并且统筹了大获成功的伊核协议，协助美国古巴关系中断50多年后解冻的谈判，还是奥巴马全部重要外交政策讲话的起草者之一。“他每天完成12项工作，还比任何干这些工作的人干得都好，”国家安全委员会任期最长的演讲撰稿者特里·祖普拉特(Terry Szuplat)告诉我。无论是在最大的问题还是最小的问题上，美国对这个世界所发出的声音都来自本·罗兹。
Like Obama, Rhodes is a storyteller who uses a writer’s tools to advance an agenda that is packaged as politics but is often quite personal. He is adept at constructing overarching plotlines with heroes and villains, their conflicts and motivations supported by flurries of carefully chosen adjectives, quotations and leaks from named and unnamed senior officials. He is the master shaper and retailer of Obama’s foreign-policy narratives, at a time when the killer wave of social media has washed away the sand castles of the traditional press. His ability to navigate and shape this new environment makes him a more effective and powerful extension of the president’s will than any number of policy advisers or diplomats or spies. His lack of conventional real-world experience of the kind that normally precedes responsibility for the fate of nations — like military or diplomatic service, or even a master’s degree in international relations, rather than creative writing — is still startling.
和奥巴马一样，罗兹也是个很会讲故事的人，擅长使用作家的技巧来推动一项被包装为政治，但其实往往非常个人化的议程。他擅长用英雄与恶人，以及二者之间的冲突与动机来建立最重要的情节线索，辅以大堆精心选择的形容词和引语，以及从透露或不透露姓名的高官口中泄露的消息。在这个社交媒体的惊涛骇浪横扫传统媒体的沙子城堡的时代，他是奥巴马外交叙事的主要缔造者与推销者。他引导和塑造这个新环境的能力，令他成为总统意志的延伸，比任何政策顾问、外交家和间谍都要强大而高效。传统上，掌握国家命运的人必须先拥有一些现实世界的经验——比如曾在军队或者外交部门服务，他却没有这样的经历，甚至也没有国际关系的硕士学位，只有创意写作的硕士学位，这一点始终让人觉得吃惊。
Part of what accounts for Rhodes’s influence is his “mind meld” with the president. Nearly everyone I spoke to about Rhodes used the phrase “mind meld” verbatim, some with casual assurance and others in the hushed tones that are usually reserved for special insights. He doesn’t think for the president, but he knows what the president is thinking, which is a source of tremendous power. One day, when Rhodes and I were sitting in his boiler-room office, he confessed, with a touch of bafflement, “I don’t know anymore where I begin and Obama ends.”
罗兹的影响力部分来源于他和总统的“心灵融合”。我就罗兹采访过的几乎所有人都一字不差地提到“心灵融合”这个词，有些是带着随意的确信说的，也有些是压低嗓门说的，仿佛这是他们的特别洞察。他不替总统思考，但他知道总统在想什么，这是他的巨大力量之源。有一天，我和罗兹坐在他的类似电话营销中心的办公室里，他带着一丝迷惑承认，“我已经不能确定，哪些想法是我的，哪些是奥巴马的。”
Standing in his front office before the State of the Union, Rhodes quickly does the political math on the breaking Iran story. “Now they’ll show scary pictures of people praying to the supreme leader,” he predicts, looking at the screen. Three beats more, and his brain has spun a story line to stanch the bleeding. He turns to Price. “We’re resolving this, because we have relationships,” he says.
在国情咨文发表之前，罗兹站在前面的办公室里，快速盘算着刚曝出的伊朗事件会引起什么政治后果。“现在，他们将播放人们恳求最高领导人的可怕画面，”他看着屏幕预测道。三秒钟后，他已经想出一个阻止事态蔓延的故事线索。他对普莱斯说：“我们要解决这个问题，因为我们有各种关系可以用。”
Price turns to his computer and begins tapping away at the administration’s well-cultivated network of officials, talking heads, columnists and newspaper reporters, web jockeys and outside advocates who can tweet at critics and tweak their stories backed up by quotations from “senior White House officials” and “spokespeople.” I watch the message bounce from Rhodes’s brain to Price’s keyboard to the three big briefing podiums — the White House, the State Department and the Pentagon — and across the Twitterverse, where it springs to life in dozens of insta-stories, which over the next five hours don formal dress for mainstream outlets. It’s a tutorial in the making of a digital news microclimate — a storm that is easy to mistake these days for a fact of nature, but whose author is sitting next to me right now.
普莱斯转向自己的电脑，开始联系这届政府精心培养的关系网，它包括官员、受访专家、专栏作家、报纸记者、网络写手和外部支持者，他们能在Twitter上与批评者辩论，用来自“白宫高级官员”和“发言人”的引语来佐证自己的故事。我看着那条消息从罗兹的口中说出来，跳到普莱斯的键盘上，发给三个主要的简报平台——白宫、国务院(State Department)和五角大楼(Pentagon)——并传遍Twitter，在那里，它变成几十个生动的即时消息，在接下来的五个小时里，它们摇身一变，成为主流媒体报道。这像是关于如何制造数字新闻微气候的个别辅导。如今，这样的新闻风暴很容易被误认为是事实，而现在，它的制造者就坐在我旁边。
Rhodes logs into his computer. “It’s the middle of the [expletive] night in Iran,” he grumbles. Price looks up from his keyboard to provide a messaging update: “Considering that they have 10 of our guys in custody, we’re doing O.K.”
罗兹登录自己的电脑。“现在伊朗是[咒骂语]午夜，”他嘟囔道。普莱斯从键盘上抬起头，提供了一条最新消息：“考虑到他们扣押了10个我们的人，已经不错了。”
With three hours to go until the president’s address to Congress, Rhodes grabs a big Gatorade and starts combing through the text of the State of the Union address. I peek over his shoulder, to get a sense of the meta-narrative that will shape dozens of thumb-suckers in the days and weeks to follow. One sentence reads: “But as we focus on destroying ISIL, over-the-top claims that this is World War III just play into their hands.” He retypes a word, then changes it back, before continuing with his edit. “Masses of fighters on the back of pickup trucks, twisted souls plotting in apartments or garages — they pose an enormous danger to civilians; they have to be stopped. But they do not threaten our national existence.”
再过三个小时，总统就要在国会发表演讲了。罗兹拿过一大瓶佳得乐(Gatorade)，开始检查国情咨文的演讲稿。它的元叙事将决定接下来的几天甚至几周里的数十篇晦涩难懂的文章的内容。我从他背后窥视，想大概了解一下。其中一句是这么写的：“但随着我们专注于摧毁伊斯兰国(ISIL)，有一种言过其实的论调，说这是第三次世界大战。这种说法正中他们的下怀。”他重新打了一个单词，又改回去，然后再继续编辑。“大批武装分子坐在皮卡后面，扭曲的灵魂在公寓或车库里暗中谋划。他们给平民带来了巨大的危险。必须阻止他们。但他们并未威胁到我们国家的生存。”
Watching Rhodes work, I remember that he is still, chiefly, a writer, who is using a new set of tools — along with the traditional arts of narrative and spin — to create stories of great consequence on the biggest page imaginable. The narratives he frames, the voices of senior officials, the columnists and reporters whose work he skillfully shapes and ventriloquizes, and even the president’s own speeches and talking points, are the only dots of color in a much larger vision about who Americans are and where we are going that Rhodes and the president have been formulating together over the past seven years. When I asked Jon Favreau, Obama’s lead speechwriter in the 2008 campaign, and a close friend of Rhodes’s, whether he or Rhodes or the president had ever thought of their individual speeches and bits of policy making as part of some larger restructuring of the American narrative, he replied, “We saw that as our entire job.”
看着罗兹工作时，我想起他主要还是一名作家，正在利用一系列新工具——连同叙事和倾向性陈述的传统艺术——在能想象到的最宏大的页面上创作具有重大影响的故事。他娴熟地塑造着专栏作家和记者的文章，向他们传话。过去七年里，罗兹和奥巴马总统一起制定了一幅关于美国人是谁和我们要向何处去的愿景。他构建的叙事，高级官员、专栏作家和记者的声音，甚至总统自己的演讲和谈话要点，都只是这幅要宏大得多的愿景中彩色斑点。我曾问奥巴马2008年竞选总统时的首席演讲稿撰稿人、罗兹的密友乔恩·法夫罗(Jon Favreau)，他或者罗兹或者奥巴马总统是否曾认为他们的各种讲话和零碎的政策制定，属于对美国叙事进行的一些更大规模的重构。他回答说：“我们视其为我们全部的工作。”
Having recently spent time working in Hollywood, I realize during our conversations that the role Rhodes plays in the White House bears less resemblance to any specific character on Beltway-insider TV shows like “The West Wing” or “House of Cards” than it does to the people who create those shows. And like most TV writers, Rhodes clearly prefers to imagine himself in the company of novelists.
最近在好莱坞工作了一段时间后，我在多次交谈中意识到，罗兹在白宫扮演的角色更像《白宫群英》(The West Wing)或《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)等以美国政治为主题的电视剧的制作人，而不是它们中任何一个具体的角色。并且和大多数电视编剧一样，罗兹显然更愿意把自己想象成一名小说家。
“What novel is this that you are living in now and will exit from in eight months and be like, ‘Oh, my God’?” I ask him.
“你目前生活其中、八个月后离开时会有‘我的天呀’之感的这部小说是什么样的？”
“Who would be the author of this novel?” he asks.
“这部小说的作者会是谁呢？”他问。
“The one you are a character in now?”
“你目前身在其中的这部？”
“Don DeLillo, I think,” Rhodes answers. “I don’t know how you feel about Don DeLillo.”
“唐·德里罗(Don DeLillo)的小说吧，我想，”罗兹答道。“不知道你对唐·德里罗怎么看。”
“I love Don DeLillo,” I answer.
“我很喜欢唐·德里罗，”我回答。
“Yeah,” Rhodes answers. “That’s the only person I can think of who has confronted these questions of, you know, the individual who finds himself negotiating both vast currents of history and a very specific kind of power dynamics. That’s his milieu. And that’s what it’s like to work in the U.S. foreign-policy apparatus in 2016.”
“没错，”罗兹说。“要说有谁已经直面了这些问题，你知道，既着眼浩瀚的历史潮流，又要处理一种极为特殊的权力动态，我能想到的只有唐·德里罗。这是他的领域。很像是一个在2016年效力于美国外交政策机构的人所面对的东西 ”。