Getting Rhodes to speak directly about the man whose gestalt he channels is a bit like asking someone to look into a mirror while describing someone else’s face. The Obama he talks about in public is, in part, a character that he has helped to create — based on a real person, of course — and is embedded in story lines that he personally constructs and manages. At the same time, he believes very deeply in Obama, the man and the president, and in the policies that he has helped to structure and sell on his behalf.
让罗兹直接谈论这个由他帮助塑造了心理完形(gestalt)的男人，有点像让一个人一边照着镜子一边描述另一个人的脸。他在公开场合谈论的奥巴马，在某种程度上是他帮助塑造出来的一个人物——当然，是基于一个真实的人——通过他亲自构思和安排的故事情节呈现出来。与此同时，他又极为信任奥巴马这个人、这位总统，也对他帮助制定和代表对方推行的那些政策深信不疑。
Obama’s particular revulsion against a certain kind of global power politics is a product, Rhodes suggests, of his having been raised in Southeast Asia. “Indonesia was a place where your interaction at that time with power was very intimate, right?” Rhodes asks. “Tens or hundreds of thousands of people had just been killed. Power was not some abstract thing,” he muses. “When we sit in Washington and debate foreign policy, it’s like a Risk game, or it’s all about us, or the human beings disappear from the decisions. But he lived in a place where he was surrounded by people who had either perpetrated those acts — and by the way, may not have felt great about that — or else knew someone who was a victim. I don’t think there’s ever been an American president who had an experience like that at a young age of what power is.”
罗兹认为，奥巴马对某种大国政治特别厌恶，是因为他小时候曾在东南亚生活过。“在当时的印度尼西亚，民众距离权力的刀锋非常之近，对吧？”罗兹问。“数以万计或数以十万计的人们就那样被杀害。对他们来说，权力不是某种抽象的概念，”他若有所思地说道。“当我们坐在华盛顿为外交政策而争论时，它像是一种冒险游戏，只与我们自己有关，或说我们的决策中没有考虑具体的人。但他曾经生活在那样一个地方，当时他周围的人要么自己做过迫害别人的事——而且，自身感觉可能并不好——要么认识此类行为的受害者。我觉得从来没有一位美国总统像他这样，在那么小的年纪就切实感受过权力的可怕。”
The parts of Obama’s foreign policy that disturb some of his friends on the left, like drone strikes, Rhodes says, are a result of Obama’s particular kind of globalism, which understands the hard and at times absolute necessity of killing. Yet, at the same time, they are also ways of avoiding more deadly uses of force — a kind of low-body-count spin move.
奥巴马的外交政策中有的部分会让他的一些左翼朋友感到不安，比如无人机袭击。罗兹说这类政策源自奥巴马具有的一种特殊的全球观念。这种观念理解杀戮是非常必要的，甚至在有些时候是绝对必要的。不过，它们同时也是避免使用更多致命力量的办法，算是一种伤亡较低、“转身过人式”的打击。
He leans back and opens a drawer in the file cabinet behind his desk, and removes a folder. “I was going to show you something,” he says, removing a sheaf of yellow legal paper covered in longhand. “Just to confirm for you that he really is a writer.” He shows me the president’s copy of his Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech, a revision of an original draft by Favreau and Rhodes whose defining tension was accepting a prize awarded before he had actually accomplished anything. In his longhand notes, Obama relocated the speech’s tension in the fact that he was accepting a peace prize a week after ordering 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan. King and Gandhi were the author’s heroes, yet he couldn’t act as they did, because he runs a state. The reason that the author had to exercise power was because not everyone in the world is rational.
他向后伸长身体，打开办公桌后面那个文件柜里一个抽屉，拿出来一个文件夹。“我给你看点东西，”他说，一边从中取出上有手写文字的一页黄色纸张。“只是想向你证明他的确可以写东西。”他给我看了奥巴马接受诺贝尔和平奖时发表的获奖演说稿，这是在法夫罗(Favreau)和罗兹撰写的初稿基础上修改而成。构成那篇初稿的核心张力在于他是在接受一项自己还没有真正做出什么成就之前颁发给他的奖项。在手写的笔记中，奥巴马将演讲稿的矛盾点调整为这样一个事实，即他是在下令向阿富汗增派3万军队一周后前来领这项和平奖。马丁·路德·金(King)和甘地(Gandhi)都是奥巴马心目中的英雄，但他不能像他们那样采取非暴力方式，因为他管理着一个国家。他不得不运用权力，因为这个世界上并非所有人都是理性的。
We sit for a while, and I examine the president’s thoughts unfolding on the page, and the lawyerly, abstract nature of his writing process. “Moral imagination, spheres of identity, but also move beyond cheap lazy pronouncements,” one note reads. Here was the new American self — rational, moral, not self-indulgent. No longer one thing but multiple overlapping spheres or circles. Who is described here? As usual, the author is describing himself.
我们坐了一会儿，我看了总统在那张纸上留下的想法，也看到他写作过程中律师的抽象性。“道德想象、身份认同的阶层，但也超越了廉价、懒惰的声明，”一则批注写道。这是一种美国人的新自我――理性、道德，并不自我放纵。不再只着眼于一件事，而是注重互有交集的许多领域。这里描述的人是谁呢？和往常一样，作者在描述他本人。
Valerie Jarrett has been called the president’s work wife and is the only member of the West Wing staff who knew Obama before he began contemplating a run for the presidency. What I want to understand better, I tell her, are the swirls of the president’s emotional fingerprint, which I saw in the longhand draft of his Nobel speech. We talk for a while about being American and at the same time being from somewhere else, and the split-screen experience of reality that experience allows. Jarrett was born in Iran and spent her early childhood there.
瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)被称为总统的“职场妻子”，也是白宫西翼的员工之中唯一一个在他打算竞选总统之前就认识他的人。我告诉她，我想进一步了解的是总统的情感波动痕迹，我从那份手写的诺贝尔奖致辞草稿中窥出了一些端倪。我们聊了一会身为美国人的感受，以及从异国来到这里，体验现实中分裂处境的感受。贾勒特生于伊朗，孩提时代也在那里度过。
“Was it a point of connection between you and the president that you had each spent some substantial part of your childhoods living in another country?” I ask. Her face lights up.
“你和总统的童年时代都有相当长的一段时间在外国度过，这会让你们之间产生某种共同的联系吗？”我问。她的脸亮了起来。
“Absolutely,” she answers. The question is important to her. “The first conversation we had over dinner, when we first met, was about what it was like for both of us to live in countries that were predominantly Muslim countries at formative parts of our childhood and the perspective it gave us about the United States and how uniquely excellent it is,” she says. “We talked about what it was like to be children, and how we played with children who had totally different backgrounds than our own but you would find something in common.” She recalls her very first dinner together with the new fiancé of her protégée Michelle Robinson. “I remember him asking me questions that I felt like no one else has ever asked me before,” she says, “and he asked me from a perspective of someone who knew the same experience that I had. So it felt really good. I was like, ‘Oh, finally someone who gets it.’ ”
“没错，”她回答。这个问题对她来说很重要。“我们第一次见面，边吃晚饭边聊天，聊得就是我们都曾经在穆斯林占绝大多数的国家生活过，度过了童年的很长一段时间，这让我们看美国有自己的角度，认识到它是何等的卓越优秀，”她说。“我们聊起孩提时代，我们是怎么和那些背景截然不同的孩子们一起玩耍，但你和他们总能找到共同之处。”米歇尔·罗宾逊(Michelle Robinson)曾是贾勒特的被保护人，她继续回忆自己和罗宾逊新订婚的丈夫第一次共进晚餐时的情景。“我记得他问了我许多问题，都是其他人从来不曾问过我的，”她说，“他问我的问题都是从一个和你有相同经历的人的角度出发的。感觉真的非常好。我想，‘啊，总算有人能理解我了。’”
Barack Obama is not a standard-issue liberal Democrat. He openly shares Rhodes’s contempt for the groupthink of the American foreign-policy establishment and its hangers-on in the press. Yet one problem with the new script that Obama and Rhodes have written is that the Blob may have finally caught on.
贝拉克·奥巴马不是标准的自由派民主党人。他公开赞同罗兹对那些美国对外政策权力集团群体思维的蔑视，以及对这个集团的媒体食客们的蔑视。然而，奥巴马与罗兹的新草稿中有一个问题，肯定会被这个权力集团的人揪住。
“He is a brilliant guy, but he has a real problem with what I call the assignment of bad faith,” one former senior official told me of the president. “He regards everyone on the other side at this point as being a bunch of bloodthirsty know-nothings from a different era who play by the old book. He hears arguments like, ‘We should be punching Iran in the nose on its shipments of arms, and do it publicly,’ or ‘We should sanction the crap out of them for their ballistic-missile test and tell them that if they do it again we’re going to do this or we’re going to do that,’ and he hears Dick Cheney in those arguments.”
“他是个很好的人，但他确实有个问题，我称之为搞诛心之论，”一个前任高级官员这样谈起总统。“他把此时持对方立场的所有人都当成嗜血的笨蛋，来自一个和自己完全不同的时代，只知守旧。他喜欢听这样的论点，‘我们应该在输送武器问题上给伊朗当头一拳，而且要公开这么做’，或者‘我们应该因为弹道导弹实验狠狠制裁他们，告诉他们下一回要是还这样，我们就要干这样那样’，在这些争论中他特别听得进迪克·切尼的话。”
Another official I spoke to put the same point more succinctly: “Clearly the world has disappointed him.” When I asked whether he believed that the Oval Office debate over Syria policy in 2012 — resulting in a decision not to support the uprising against Assad in any meaningful way — had been an honest and open one, he said that he had believed that it was, but has since changed his mind. “Instead of adjusting his policies to the reality, and adjusting his perception of reality to the changing realities on the ground, the conclusions he draws are exactly the same, no matter what the costs have been to our strategic interests,” he says. “In an odd way, he reminds me of Bush.” The comparison is a startling one — and yet, questions of tone aside, it is uncomfortably easy to see the similarities between the two men, American presidents who projected their own ideas of the good onto an indifferent world.
还有一个我采访的官员更简洁地表达了类似观点：“这个世界显然令他失望。”当我问起他是否相信2012年椭圆办公室就叙利亚政策的争论（最后达成的决定是：不以任何实质性方式支持反阿萨德政府的叛军）是诚实公开的，他说，自己曾经相信过这一点，但后来就改变了主意。“与其说调整自己的政策去适应现实，抑或是调整自己对现实的看法去适应变化的现实，他更倾向于做出完全相同的结论，不管这对我们的战略利益会造成什么样的影响，”他说。“在某种奇怪的意义上，他让我想起布什。”这种对比很让人吃惊，然而，除了语气的问题，这两个人身上显然有一种让人不舒服的共同之处。他们都是把自己心目中善意的观点强加给一个冷漠世界的美国总统。
One of the few charter members of the Blob willing to speak on the record is Leon Panetta, who was Obama’s head of the C.I.A. and secretary of defense and also enough of a product of a different culture to give honest answers to what he understands to be questions of consequence. At his institute at the old Fort Ord in Seaside, Calif., where, in the days before he wore Mr. Rogers sweaters, he served as a young Army intelligence officer, I ask him about a crucial component of the administration’s public narrative on Iran: whether it was ever a salient feature of the C.I.A.’s analysis when he ran the agency that the Iranian regime was meaningfully divided between “hard-line” and “moderate” camps.
利昂·帕内塔(Leon Panetta)是这个对外政策权力集团中少数愿意公开接受采访的人之一，他曾是奥巴马政府中情局和国防部的头，也曾在另一种文化中成长，可以诚实地回答那些他认为有价值的问题。我在加利福尼亚锡赛德市老奥德堡营地、他的机构中采访了他，穿上罗杰斯式的毛衣之前，他曾是这里的一名年轻的陆军情报官。我就这届政府在伊朗问题上的公共叙事中的一个重要元素向他提问：说伊朗政权真的分为“强硬派”和“温和派”两大阵营，这种叙事是否是在他主持中情局期间，中情局在伊朗问题上的分析报告中的重要观点。
“No,” Panetta answers. “There was not much question that the Quds Force and the supreme leader ran that country with a strong arm, and there was not much question that this kind of opposing view could somehow gain any traction.”
“不，”帕内塔回答。“毫无疑问，圣城军(Quds Force)和伊朗的最高领袖依靠强大的武装力量统治那个国家；同样毫无疑问的是，这样的反对派观点根本没有什么影响力。”
I ask Panetta whether, as head of the C.I.A., or later on, as secretary of defense, he ever saw the letters that Obama covertly sent to Khamenei, in 2009 and in 2012, which were only reported on by the press weeks later.
我问帕内塔，他主持中情局乃至后来担任国防部长期间，他是否看到过奥巴马在2009到2012年期间给哈梅内伊偷偷写信，这件事几周后就被媒体曝光了。
“No,” he answers, before saying he would “like to believe” that Tom Donilon, national security adviser since 2010, and Hillary Clinton, then secretary of state, had a chance to work on the offer they presented.
“没有，”他说，又说，他“会愿意相信”，自2010年以来担任国家安全顾问的汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donillon)和当时担任国务卿的希拉里·克林顿有机会就他们的提议做些工作。
As secretary of defense, he tells me, one of his most important jobs was keeping Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and his defense minister, Ehud Barak, from launching a pre-emptive attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities. “They were both interested in the answer to the question, ‘Is the president serious?’ ” Panetta recalls. “And you know my view, talking with the president, was: If brought to the point where we had evidence that they’re developing an atomic weapon, I think the president is serious that he is not going to allow that to happen.”
他告诉我，作为国防部长，他的一项最重要的工作，就是防止以色列总理本杰明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)和他的国防部长埃胡德·巴拉克(Ehud Barak)对伊朗的核设施发动抢先袭击。“他们都对‘总统是认真的吗’这个问题的答案感兴趣，”帕内塔回忆道。“你知道我的看法，和总统交谈就是这样的，如果到了我们能拿出他们在发展核武器的证据的阶段，我觉得总统是认真不希望这种事发生。”
Panetta stops.
帕内塔停顿了一下。
“But would you make that same assessment now?” I ask him.
“但你现在还会做出同样的评估吗？”我问他。
“Would I make that same assessment now?” he asks. “Probably not.”
“我现在是否还会做同样的评估？”他问。“可能不会。”
He understands the president’s pivot toward Iran as the logical result of a deeply held premise about the negative effects of use of American military force on a scale much larger than drone strikes or Special Forces raids. “I think the whole legacy that he was working on was, ‘I’m the guy who’s going to bring these wars to an end, and the last goddamn thing I need is to start another war,’ ” he explains of Obama. “If you ratchet up sanctions, it could cause a war. If you start opposing their interest in Syria, well, that could start a war, too.”
他明白，总统向伊朗的倾斜，是基于投入比无人机轰炸或特种部队突袭更大规模的军事力量必将带来负面后果这一假设的符合逻辑的结果。“我觉得他努力留下的全部政治遗产就是，‘我就是那个想要终结所有战争的人，我最不需要的讨厌事情就是发起另一场战争，’”他这样分析奥巴马的想法。“如果你发动制裁，可能会引发一场战争。如果你开始反对他们在叙利亚的利益，好吧，那可能也会导致一场战争。”
In Panetta’s telling, his own experience at the Pentagon under Obama sometimes resembled being installed in the driver’s seat of a car and finding that the steering wheel and brakes had been disconnected from the engine. Obama and his aides used political elders like him, Robert Gates and Hillary Clinton as cover to end the Iraq war, and then decided to steer their own course, he suggests. While Panetta pointedly never mentions Rhodes’s name, it is clear whom he is talking about.
据帕内塔说，奥巴马执政期间，他在五角大楼的经历有时很像是被安排在司机的位置上，却发现车的方向盘和刹车没有与发动机相连。他说，奥巴马及其助手们以政治前辈们做掩护——比如帕内塔本人、罗伯特·盖茨(Robert Gates)和希拉里·克林顿——结束了伊拉克战争，然后决定开辟自己的道路。虽然帕内塔从未明确提到罗兹的名字，但他说的是谁是很明显的。
“There were staff people who put themselves in a position where they kind of assumed where the president’s head was on a particular issue, and they thought their job was not to go through this open process of having people present all these different options, but to try to force the process to where they thought the president wanted to be,” he says. “They’d say, ‘Well, this is where we want you to come out.’ And I’d say ‘[expletive], that’s not the way it works. We’ll present a plan, and then the president can make a decision.’ I mean, Jesus Christ, it is the president of the United States, you’re making some big decisions here, he ought to be entitled to hear all of those viewpoints and not to be driven down a certain path.”
“有些工作人员喜欢臆测总统在某个问题上的立场，他们认为自己的工作不是通过公开讨论让所有人把不同的观点都提出来，而是努力迫使情势转向他们认为总统想要的状态，”他说，“他们会说，‘呃，这时候我们想让你站出来讲话。’我会说，‘[咒骂语]，事情不该这么办。应该是我们提出一个计划，然后让总统做决定。’我的意思是，天哪，这可是美国总统，他要做的都是重大决定，他有权听到所有的观点，而不是被引到某一条道路上。”
But that can’t be true, I tell Panetta, because the aides he is talking about had no independent power aside from the authority that the president himself gave them.
我对帕内塔说，但实情不可能是那样的，因为他说的那些助手们没有独立权力，除了总统本人给予他们的权威。
“Well, that’s a good question,” Panetta allows. “He’s a smart guy, he’s not dumb.” It’s all part of the Washington blame game. Just as Panetta can blame young aides in order to avoid blaming the president for his actual choices, the president used his aides to tell Panetta to take a hike. Perhaps the president and his aides were continually unable to predict the consequences of their actions in Syria, and made mistake after mistake, while imagining that it was going to come out right the next time. “Another read, which isn’t necessarily opposed to that,” I continue, “is that their actual picture is entirely coherent. But if they put it in blunt, unnuanced terms — ”
“呃，那是个好问题，”帕内塔承认，“他是个聪明人，他不傻。”这都是华盛顿归咎游戏的一部分。就像帕内塔不能指责总统的具体选择而只能怪罪他的年轻助手们一样，总统也只能通过自己的助手们让帕内塔走开。也许总统和他的助手们一直无法预测在叙利亚的军事行动的后果，总是在不断犯错，同时希望下一次能有好结果。“还有一点——它不一定与此相悖，”我继续说道，“那就是，他们的实际主张完全是一致的。但是，如果他们用直率的、毫不掩饰的方式来表达——”
Panetta completes my sentence: “ — they’d get the [expletive] kicked out of them.” He looks at me curiously. “Let me ask you something,” he says. “Did you present this theory to Ben Rhodes?”
帕内塔说出了我的后半句：“他们一定会被抨击得[咒骂语]落花流水。”他好奇地看着我。“我问你一句，”他说，“你跟本·罗兹提起过这种假设吗？”
“Oh, God,” Rhodes says. “The reason the president has bucked a lot of establishment thinking is because he does not agree with establishment thinking. Not because I or Denis McDonough are sitting here.” He pushes back in his chair. “The complete lack of governance in huge swaths of the Middle East, that is the project of the American establishment,” he declares. “That as much as Iraq is what angered me.”
“哦，天哪，”罗兹说，“总统强烈反对权力集团的很多观点，是因为他不赞同它们。而不是因为我或者丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)在这儿。”他向后靠到椅背上。“美国在中东的很多地方完全缺乏支配力，那是美国外交权力集团的作品，”他宣称，“那和伊拉克一样让我愤怒。”
There is something dangerously naïve about this kind of talk, in which words like “balance,” “stakeholders” and “interests” are endlessly reshuffled like word tiles in a magnetic-poetry set, with little regard for the immutable contingencies that shaped America’s role in the world. But that’s hardly fair. Ben Rhodes wanted to do right, and maybe, when the arc of history lands, it will turn out that he did. At least, he tried. Something scared him, and made him feel as if the grown-ups in Washington didn’t know what they were talking about, and it’s hard to argue that he was wrong.
这种言论天真而危险，“平衡”、“利益相关者”和“利益”这些词就像磁铁诗歌玩具(magnetic-poetry set)里的词块一样被不断组合，几乎完全无视塑造美国世界角色的那些不可避免的偶然事件。但那不公平。本·罗兹想做正确的事，也许，当历史的大幕落下，时间会证明他的确做对了。至少，他努力了。有些事情让他害怕，让他觉得，华盛顿的成年人好像都不知道自己在说什么——你也很难反驳说他的这种感觉是错的。
What has interested me most about watching him and his cohort in the White House over the past seven years, I tell him, is the evolution of their ability to get comfortable with tragedy. I am thinking specifically about Syria, I add, where more than 450,000 people have been slaughtered.
我对罗兹说，过去7年里，我在观察他以及他的白宫同僚时，最感兴趣的是，他们越来越能接受悲剧了。我补充说，尤其是想到叙利亚，那里有逾45万人遭到屠杀。
“Yeah, I admit very much to that reality,” he says. “There’s a numbing element to Syria in particular. But I will tell you this,” he continues. “I profoundly do not believe that the United States could make things better in Syria by being there. And we have an evidentiary record of what happens when we’re there — nearly a decade in Iraq.”
“是，我承认那是事实，”他说。“叙利亚有一种令人麻木的元素。但有一点我要告诉你，”他继续说道，“我真的不认为，美国的介入能让叙利亚的情况变好。大约十年前我们进入伊拉克的后果就是明证。”
Iraq is his one-word answer to any and all criticism. I was against the Iraq war from the beginning, I tell Rhodes, so I understand why he perpetually returns to it. I also understand why Obama pulled the plug on America’s engagement with the Middle East, I say, but it was also true as a result that more people are dying there on his watch than died during the Bush presidency, even if very few of them are Americans. What I don’t understand is why, if America is getting out of the Middle East, we are apparently spending so much time and energy trying to strong-arm Syrian rebels into surrendering to the dictator who murdered their families, or why it is so important for Iran to maintain its supply lines to Hezbollah. He mutters something about John Kerry, and then goes off the record, to suggest, in effect, that the world of the Sunni Arabs that the American establishment built has collapsed. The buck stops with the establishment, not with Obama, who was left to clean up their mess.
伊拉克是他对所有批评的通用挡箭牌。我对罗兹说，我从一开始就反对伊拉克战争，所以我能理解他为什么总是提到它。我说，我也能理解为什么奥巴马突然停止美国在中东地区的军事行动，但有一个事实是，在奥巴马任期内死去的人比布什任期内的多——虽然几乎没有美国人。我不能理解的是，如果美国想撤出中东，那么为什么我们明显在花费大量时间和精力努力迫使叙利亚反对派向杀害他们家人的独裁者投降，为什么伊朗向黎巴嫩真主党(Hezbollah)提供物资如此重要。他嘟囔了几句批评约翰·克里(John Kerry)的话，然后私下里表示，美国权力集团建立的逊尼派阿拉伯世界实际上已经崩溃。那是权力集团的错，不是奥巴马的错，他是被留下处理烂摊子的。
It is clearly time for me to go. Rhodes walks me out into the sunlight of the West Wing parking lot, where we are treated to the sight of the aged Henry Kissinger, who has come to pay a visit. I ask Rhodes if he has ever met the famous diplomat before, and he tells me about the time they were seated together at a state dinner for the president of China. It was an interesting encounter to imagine, between Kissinger, who made peace with Mao’s China while bombing Laos to bits, and Rhodes, who helped effect a similar diplomatic volte-face with Iran but kept the United States out of a civil war in Syria, which has caused more than four million people to become refugees. I ask Rhodes how it felt being seated next to the embodiment of American realpolitik. “It was surreal,” he says, looking off into the middle distance. “I told him I was going to Laos,” he continues. “He got a weird look in his eye.”
我真的该走了。罗兹把我送到白宫西翼停车场的阳光下，我们有幸看到年迈的亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)来访。我问罗兹，他以前是否见过这位著名的外交家，他告诉我，有一次他们在欢迎中国国家主席的国宴上被安排坐在一起。可以想见，这是一次有趣的会面：基辛格与毛泽东统治下的中国达成和解，却把老挝炸成碎片；罗兹在伊朗问题上帮助实现了类似的外交逆转，却让美国置身叙利亚内战之外，后者导致逾400万人成为难民。我问罗兹，被安排坐在美国实用政治的典型代表旁边，他作何感想。“有点超现实，”他看着远处说道。“我跟他说我要去老挝，”他继续说道，“他眼里飘过一丝怪异的神情。”
There is nothing snarky about his delivery. Rhodes just was bothered by seeing legless kids and unexploded cluster bombs in the jungle. He is not Henry Kissinger, or so his logic runs, even as the underlying realist suspicion — or contempt — for the idea of America as a moral actor is eerily similar. He is torn. As the president himself once asked, how are we supposed to weigh the tens of thousands who have died in Syria against the tens of thousands who have died in Congo? What power means is that the choice is yours, no matter who is telling the story.
他那样说绝无挖苦讽刺之意。看到失去双腿的孩子以及丛林中没有爆炸的集束炸弹，令罗兹感到困扰。他不是亨利·基辛格，他的逻辑跟基辛格也不同，尽管他们对美国是道德典范的观念持有类似的可怕的现实主义怀疑或蔑视。他左右为难。就像总统本人曾经问过的，我们该如何衡量叙利亚死去的成千上万的人与刚果死去的成千上万的人孰轻孰重？权力的意思是，不管故事由谁讲述，决定都要由你来做。