WASHINGTON — President Donald J. Trump will walk into the Oval Office and be stunned.
华盛顿——唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)总统走进椭圆形办公室后将感到震撼。
First, it will be a shock to work in an office decorated with images of men other than himself. Second, he is bound to be suffused with awe as he looks around at the Remington bronze bronco, the Rockwell “Statue of Liberty,” the portraits of Washington and Lincoln, the Swedish ivy on the mantel that has eavesdropped — and leavesdropped — on so much history.
首先令他震惊的是，自己的办公室装饰着别人的肖像。其次，看着雷明顿(Remington)的野马铜像、洛克威尔(Rockwell)的《自由女神像》、华盛顿和林肯的画像，以及壁炉上垂下的见证了太多历史的瑞典常春藤，他一定会充满敬畏。
The new president will suddenly realize that Joe Biden is right. He needs to grow up. Chuck Schumer is right. He has to stop nonsense-tweeting and name-calling. John McCain is right. He needs to stop fawning over Vladimir Putin, his B.F.F. whose eyes flash “K.G.B.”
新总统会猛然意识到乔·拜登(Joe Biden)是对的。他需要长大。查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)是对的。他必须停止乱发推文，不再辱骂他人。约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)是对的。他必须停止讨好弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)，就是他那个眼中闪着“克格勃”字样的BFF（一辈子的好朋友）。
Donald Trump will, at long last, assume a mantle of dignity.
特朗普终将成为一个庄重体面的人。
NOT!
绝对不会！
The capital has never been more anxious about its own government. The town is suffering pre-traumatic stress disorder. This guy is really going to be president.
华盛顿从未如此担心过自己的政府。这座城市正在遭受创伤前应激障碍的折磨。这个人真的要当总统了。
Finally, there is bipartisan consensus: It’s time to flip out. Decades after duck-and-cover was a way of life, people here are once more in duck-and-cover mode. No one knows what is going to happen, but they know it will be utter chaos and that the old familiar ways have vaporized.
两党终于达成共识：天下大乱了。在摆脱“卧倒-隐蔽”的生活方式数十年之后，这里的人们将再度进入“卧倒-隐蔽”模式。没人知道将会发生什么，但他们知道局面将极度混乱，大家熟悉的旧有生活方式已经烟消云散。
On the verge of the inauguration, a time of stately ritual and tradition in a city baked in ritual and tradition, ritual and tradition are out the window. Donald Trump is operating on an utterly new, unique and freaky frequency.
总统就职典礼是这座讲究礼仪和传统的城市彰显庄严的礼仪和传统的时刻，但在唐纳德·特朗普就职前夕，礼仪和传统都被抛到了九霄云外。他正以一种全新的、独特的、诡异的方式行事。
Closed-door confabs in mahogany and marble rooms with brass spittoons have been replaced with Trump heckling, pouting, demanding and sharing his innermost thoughts on Twitter. The city has the panicked air of a B-horror movie where the townsfolk stand stock still, bug-eyed and frozen, too frightened to flee, waiting for the creature.
在装饰着红木和大理石、摆放着黄铜痰盂的房间里进行的闭门会谈已经被特朗普在Twitter上进行的质问、发出的牢骚、做出的要求以及对内心最深处想法的分享取而代之。城中弥漫着B级恐怖电影里的气氛，人们站在原地，瞪大眼睛，呆若木鸡，因为太害怕而无法逃离，只能等着怪兽出现。
Everything is turned inside out into sauerkraut. Democrats are appalled that Trump is challenging the C.I.A., the same agency that got W.M.D.s wrong. Republicans are cuddling up to Russia. Mitch McConnell says the American people will not tolerate the Democrats’ holding up a Supreme Court nominee. WikiLeaks is protesting leaks. Trump and Sean Hannity suddenly love Julian Assange.
所有的一切都被搅得天翻地覆、乱七八糟。民主党人震惊于特朗普正在质疑中央情报局(CIA)——该机构弄错过关于大规模杀伤性武器的情报。共和党人正向俄罗斯靠拢。米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)说，美国人民不会容忍民主党把持最高法院大法官提名。维基解密(WikiLeaks)正在抗议泄密事件。特朗普和肖恩·汉尼提(Sean Hannity)忽然爱上了朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)。
The city’s mood is “surreal,” as Senator Dick Durbin told The Times’s Carl Hulse on “The Run-Up” podcast. As the Illinois Democrat looks down from his Capitol Hill office at the inaugural stands going up, he is still in disbelief that it’s not Madam President and that they didn’t scoop up the Senate.
就像参议员迪克·德宾(Dick Durbin)在播客节目《The Run-Up》上对时报的卡尔·赫尔斯(Carl Hulse)所说的那样，这座城市有一种“超现实”氛围。当伊利诺伊州的这位民主党人从国会大厦自己的办公室望见下方的就职讲台慢慢搭起来时，仍然难以相信即将上台的不是“总统女士”，难以相信他们没能夺回对参议院的控制权。
“I spent months never believing that he would be elected president,” Durbin said. “I sincerely hope that the office makes the man.”
“我有好几个月都不相信他会被选为总统，”德宾说。“但我真心希望这个位置能造就他。”
House Republicans who had to back off their attempt to eviscerate the independent ethics office, after the president-elect tweeted his disapproval of their priorities, looked dazed as they walked out of their party conference meeting at the swift power of the Trump thunderbolt-tweets.
试图给独立道德办公室以重创的共和党众议员，在候选总统发推文反对他们优先考虑的事项之后，不得不放弃这一努力。党内会议散场时，特朗普在Twitter上迅速挥出的当头一棒似乎让他们茫然失措。
Can you imagine what would have happened if President-elect Obama had called McConnell “a clown,” as Trump tweeted about Schumer?
你能想象如果候任总统奥巴马管麦康奈尔叫“小丑”，就像特朗普在Twitter上对舒默做的那样，会发生什么吗？
Can you imagine a scenario where two Republicans in a row lose the popular vote but win the White House with a shady helping hand? Can’t the G.O.P. win fair and square? Was it the Russians who turned Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania truly red?
你能想象两名共和党人双双输掉普选，却在幕后黑手的帮助下当选总统的情节吗？共和党不能赢得光明正大吗？真的是俄国人让威斯康辛州、密歇根州和宾夕法尼亚州变成红色的吗？
As Congress was officially certifying Trump’s election Friday at the U.S. Capitol — “It is over,” Biden firmly told Democrats who had still been yearning for the miracle of a recount or redo — the intelligence services were meeting with Trump and essentially decertifying his election.
当国会于上周五在国会大厦正式确认特朗普当选总统时，——“结束了，”拜登斩钉截铁地告诉此前仍然渴望出现奇迹的民主党人，他们希望重新计票或重新来过——情报部门的人和特朗普碰面，实际上是在否认他的当选资格。
For Trump, every humiliation is a small death. So you know he was furious about the searing report — reflecting rare unanimity by the turf-battling intelligence agencies — implying that he did not win on his own, given that Putin ordered up a cyber-campaign designed to “denigrate” Hillary and help Trump.
对特朗普来说，每遭受一次羞辱都仿佛经历一次小死。因此可以想象，这份尖刻的报告会令他怒火中烧。相互竞争的情报机构在该报告中难得一见地统一了口径，暗示他并非全凭自己的力量赢得了大选，因为普京下令发起了一场旨在“诋毁”希拉里、帮助特朗普的网络战。
McCain called it “an act of war.” It’s certainly the biggest Russian conspiracy to hit Washington since Kevin Costner’s “No Way Out.”
麦凯恩称之为“战争行为”。这显然是继凯文·科斯特纳(Kevin Costner)的《谍海军魂》(No Way Out)以来，俄国人用以打击华盛顿的最大阴谋。
Outsiders in a corrupt political establishment meddled in the American election by painting Trump as an outsider victimized by a corrupt political establishment. Russia tried to rig our election in favor of Trump even as Trump was decrying a rigged election.
来自一个腐败政治权势集团的局外人，通过把特朗普描绘成被一个腐败政治权势集团迫害的局外人，干扰了美国的大选。在特朗普怒斥选举舞弊的同时，俄罗斯正竭力操纵我们的选举，以便为特朗普提供助力。
The intelligence report ascribed a motive: “Putin has had many positive experiences working with Western political leaders whose business interests made them more disposed to deal with Russia, such as former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder.”
情报部门的报告谈及了这样一种动机：“一些西方领导人，比如意大利前总理西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)、德国前总理格哈德·施罗德(Gerhard Schroeder)，出于自身商业利益的考虑，颇为乐于和俄罗斯打交道，而普京在和这些人合作的过程中，有很多正面体验。”
Back in 1987, I interviewed Trump when Mikhail Gorbachev made his first visit to America. Trump was very suspicious of the Evil Empire then and warned that the U.S. should not be too eager to make a deal with Gorbachev. But then the Soviets invited him to a business round-table and softened him up by telling him they loved Trump Tower and inviting him to build a hotel in Moscow.
回到1987年，在米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail Gorbachev)首次访美之际，我采访了特朗普。彼时，特朗普对“邪恶帝国”抱有极大的疑虑，并警告说，美国不该太过急于和戈尔巴乔夫达成协议。但随后，苏联邀请他参加一场商业圆桌会议，对他说他们喜欢特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)，还邀请他到莫斯科建一所酒店，从而让他的态度出现了软化。
A year later, Trump heard that Gorbachev was back, out in front of Trump Tower, and rushed down from his office to shake hands with the Communist, who turned out to be an impersonator from New Jersey named Ronald Knapp.
一年后，特朗普听说戈尔巴乔夫回来了，就在特朗普大厦大门外。他赶紧从自己的办公室冲到楼下，去和这位共产党人握手寒暄。但事实证明来人是一名来自新泽西州的模仿者，名叫罗纳德·纳普(Ronald Knapp)。
Trump was easily fooled that time. It remains an open question how gullible and malleable he is.
那一次特朗普被轻易愚弄。至于他现在有多容易上当受骗和受人操控，还没有答案。
But those in Washington like Mike Pence, Reince Priebus and Paul Ryan who think they can manipulate him might be in for a surprise.
但华盛顿的那些自以为可以操控他的人，比如迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)、雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)和保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)，或许会感到意外。
IT WON’T HAPPEN!
因为，那不可能！