WASHINGTON — Imagine a week in which you arrange the halftime show for the Super Bowl, organize the trophy ceremony for the World Cup and then, for good measure, plan your daughter’s wedding.
华盛顿——想象一下，在一周之内，你要安排超级碗半场秀，举办世界杯颁奖仪式，然后还要计划女儿的婚礼。
That is the kind of week ahead for Deesha Dyer, the new White House social secretary. President Obama will host Pope Francis on Wednesday, President Xi Jinping of China on Thursday and hundreds of guests at a White House state dinner for Mr. Xi on Friday. The president will then fly to New York to entertain a conclave of world leaders at the United Nations General Assembly.
白宫的新任社交秘书迪莎·戴尔(Deesha Dyer)本周就要面对这样的状况。奥巴马总统本周三将接待教皇方济各(Pope Francis)，周四接待习近平主席，周五在白宫为习近平举办国宴，届时将有数百宾客到场。然后总统将飞往纽约，在联合国大会款待前来参会的世界各国领导人。
In between, the White House is expecting nearly 15,000 guests to witness the pope’s Wednesday morning arrival on the South Lawn.
而且白宫预计，教宗本周三上午抵达白宫南草坪时，将有1.5万名宾客在场见证。
“We’ve never had anything like this before,” said Jessica Andrews, a spokeswoman for the State Department’s chief of protocol. “It’s the Super Bowl of Super Bowls.”
“我们以前从来没有经历过这样的状况，”国务院礼仪负责人的发言人杰西卡·安德鲁斯(Jessica Andrews)说。“这是超级碗中的超级碗。”
The person Michelle Obama has entrusted to handle this crush of extraordinary proceedings is a former hip-hop reporter for Philadelphia City Paper and a community college graduate who became a White House intern at the relatively advanced age of 31. Ms. Dyer’s résumé is a big departure from those of previous White House social secretaries, who from Letitia Baldrige in the Kennedy administration to Desirée Rogers in the Obama administration typically inhabited the world of their guests.
米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)把这种罕见的状况交给了曾是《费城城市报》(Philadelphia City Paper)嘻哈音乐记者、毕业于一所社区大学、在31岁“高龄”成为白宫实习生的戴尔来处理。戴尔的简历与以前的白宫社交秘书大不相同：从肯尼迪政府时期的勒蒂夏·鲍德里奇(Letitia Baldrige)到奥巴马时期的德西蕾·罗杰斯(Desirée Rogers)，白宫社交秘书往往与他们招待的客人来自同一个世界。
But Mrs. Obama has been breaking with traditions, first by selecting Ms. Rogers, the first African-American woman to hold the job, and then by naming Jeremy Bernard, the first man and openly gay person in the role.
但米歇尔·奥巴马已经打破了传统，她最先任命的罗杰斯成为第一位非裔女性白宫社交秘书，之后任命的杰里米·伯纳德(Jeremy Bernard)又成为了第一位担任此职的男性和公开身份的同性恋者。
Now comes Ms. Dyer, 37, the second black woman in the job and for two years the deputy to Mr. Bernard, who trained her for her role as the cheerful but strict coordinator of everything from the White House Easter Egg Roll to the December stampede of Christmas parties. High heels and to-do lists are her standard accouterments as the first lady’s point of contact with the large White House staff of florists, chefs and ushers.
37岁的戴尔成了第二名担任此职的黑人女性。她在伯纳德手下当了两年副手，被伯纳德培养成为一位开朗而严格的协调人，负责应对从白宫复活节滚彩蛋活动到12月大量圣诞派对的一切事务。作为第一夫人与白宫庞大的园艺师、厨师和招待员队伍之间的连接点，戴尔的标准装备是高跟鞋和待办事项列表。
“Deesha may have a nontraditional background for a social secretary, but she has all of the skills and characteristics to be a good social secretary,” said Lea Berman, a social secretary in the George W. Bush administration. “And anyone new would have had to spend a year just learning the job.”
“作为社交秘书，迪莎的背景可能有别于传统，但她拥有这个职位所需的全部技能和特点，她是一名很好的社交秘书，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)时期的社交秘书李·伯曼(Lea Berman)说。“任何新人要学会这项工作都得花上一年时间。”
No one disputes, however, that the next several days will be a test for Ms. Dyer. “This will indeed be a busy week for the White House social office,” Mr. Bernard said in an email. “But I have no doubt that Deesha and her team will execute each event masterfully and carefully.”
但是没有人怀疑，未来几天对戴尔将是一个考验。“对于白宫社交办公室，这确实是忙碌的一周，”伯纳德在一封电邮中说。“但我毫不怀疑，迪莎及其团队将娴熟周到地开展每个活动。”
Patrick Rapa, a senior editor at Philadelphia City Paper who paid Ms. Dyer $50 a week to write a column on the city’s hip-hop music scene, said he was not surprised that she had landed in the White House. “She’s a smart go-getter who works really hard, and she’s nothing but pleasant,” he said.
帕特里克·拉帕(Patrick Rapa)是《费城城市报》的资深编辑，曾聘用戴尔撰写关于该市嘻哈乐坛的专栏文章，周薪是50美元。拉帕说，戴尔能在白宫工作并不奇怪。“她很聪明，工作很拼，而且十分招人喜欢，”他说。
After dropping out of the University of Cincinnati, Ms. Dyer worked as an assistant at a Pennsylvania real estate company, traveled the world and explored Philadelphia’s hottest nightspots. She eventually received an associate degree from the Community College of Philadelphia, landed a White House internship and then worked in the White House Travel Office. She became social secretary in May.
从辛辛那提大学(University of Cincinnati)退学后，戴尔在宾夕法尼亚州一家房地产公司当助理。她会去世界各地旅行，也会探访费城最热门的夜店。后来，她终于从费城社区大学(Community College of Philadelphia)拿到了副学士学位，获得了在白宫实习的机会，此后又到白宫出行办公室(White House Travel Office)工作。今年5月，她开始担任社交秘书。
Popes have visited the White House twice before, and they present unique challenges not the least because just about everybody — sometimes including the president — is at least mildly star-struck.
教皇此前到访过白宫两次，这种场面会带来独特的挑战，其中一个很大的原因是，几乎所有人都会变成追星族，有时候总统都不例外。
“It’s quite different from any other type of visit that we would receive from a leader of a foreign government in the sense that the pope is the leader of an incredibly important institution that is deeply valued by many, many Americans, and he’s also a prominent, if not pre-eminent, moral and spiritual leader around the world on a whole host of issues,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said somewhat breathlessly in a phone call with reporters last week.
“这完全不同于我们会接待的其他任何一种外国政府领导人，教皇是一个极其重要的机构的领袖，这个机构深受许许多多美国人的重视。在全世界的很多问题上，教皇是一位地位显要、甚至出类拔萃的道德和精神领袖，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J.Rhodes)上周接受记者电话采访时有些上气不接下气地说。
The state dinner for Mr. Xi poses other challenges. Two party crashers at a 2009 state dinner, Tareq and Michaele Salahi, infamously got past a phalanx of security guards and the glamorous Ms. Rogers, which eventually cost Ms. Rogers her job.
为习近平设的国宴带来的是另一种挑战。2009年的一次国宴上，塔雷克(Tareq)和米歇勒·萨拉希(Michaele Salahi)这对不速之客通过了密集的保安和迷人的罗杰斯。整件事闹得沸沸扬扬，最终导致罗杰斯丢了工作。