WASHINGTON — Michael Flynn, then Donald Trump’s incoming national security adviser, had a previously undisclosed meeting with the Russian ambassador in December to “establish a line of communication” between the new administration and the Russian government, the White House said Thursday.
白宫在周四表示，去年12月，即将担任特朗普国家安全顾问的迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)与俄罗斯大使进行过一次之前未曾披露的会面，目的是在新政府与俄罗斯政府之间“建立起沟通渠道”。
Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and now a senior adviser, also participated in the meeting at Trump Tower with Flynn and Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador. But among Trump’s inner circle, it is Flynn who appears to have been the main interlocutor with the Russian envoy — the two were in contact during the campaign and the transition, Kislyak and current and former U.S. officials have said.
特朗普的女婿、现为他的一名高级顾问的贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)也参加了弗林和俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)进行的会面。但是在特朗普的内部圈子里，弗林似乎才是与这位俄罗斯大使进行对话的主要人物——基斯利亚克本人、几名现任和前任美国官员表示，两人在竞选期间和交接阶段一直保持着联系。
But the extent and frequency of their contacts remains unclear, and the disclosure of the meeting at Trump Tower adds to the emerging picture of how the relationship between Trump’s incoming team and Moscow was evolving to include some of the president-elect’s most trusted advisers.
但他们接触的程度和频次依然不清楚，在特朗普大厦这次会面的曝光增加了一副逐渐展开的图景的内容，即特朗普即将上任的团队与莫斯科之间的关系是如何演进，逐渐卷入了当时的候任总统最信任的一些顾问。
The White House has sought to play down any connections with Kislyak. Attorney General Jeff Sessions acknowledged this week that he had met twice with him during the campaign, despite previous denials.
白宫一直在竭力淡化与基斯利亚克的联系。尽管之前曾多次否认，但司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)本周承认，他在竞选期间与基斯利亚克见过两次面。
The New Yorker reported this week that Kushner had met with Kislyak at Trump Tower in December. Hope Hicks, a White House spokeswoman, confirmed Thursday that Flynn was also at the meeting.
《纽约客》(The New Yorker)本周报道了库什纳曾在去年12月与基斯利亚克会面。白宫女发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)周四证实，弗林也参加了那次会面。
It is common and not improper for transition officials to meet with foreign officials. But all meetings between Trump associates and Russians are now significant as the FBI investigates Russian interference in the U.S. election and whether anyone close to Trump’s campaign was involved.
交接官员与外国官员会面很常见，也没什么不妥之处。但特朗普身边的人与俄罗斯人的会面现在全都十分重要，因为联邦调查局(FBI)在调查俄罗斯人对美国大选的干涉，也在调查是否有与特朗普关系密切的人牵涉其中。
The meeting in December came just as the Obama White House was preparing to sanction Russia and publicly make its case that Moscow had interfered with the 2016 election.
12月的那次会面恰逢奥巴马政府准备对俄罗斯进行制裁，以及公开莫斯科干涉2016年美国大选这一结论之时。
“They generally discussed the relationship and it made sense to establish a line of communication,” Hicks said. “Jared has had meetings with many other foreign countries and representatives — as many as two dozen other foreign countries’ leaders and representatives.”
“他们泛泛地谈论了两国关系，进行沟通是合乎情理的，”希克斯说。“贾里德还与其他许多国家和代表见过面——多达二三十个其他国家的领导人和代表。”
The Trump Tower meeting lasted 20 minutes, and Kushner has not met since with Kislyak, Hicks said.
希克斯表示，在特朗普大厦进行的那次会面持续了20分钟，而且自那之后库什纳没有再和基斯利亚克见过面。