The first lady, Michelle Obama, is soon to lose her executive pastry chef, Bill Yosses. And she is partly to blame.
第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马很快就要失去自己的甜品大厨比尔·约赛斯(Bill Yosses)了。她自己对此也有部分责任。
She has piqued his interest in the relationship between food and health, he said in a recent telephone interview, so the man who made the Hawaiian chocolate-malted ganache for the White House state dinner for the president of France is now headed to New York with an aim to teach children and adults about eating better. In the meantime, he has given up his usual breakfast doughnuts for a smoothie made with apple, kale, spinach and ginger — from time to time.
约赛斯最近在接受电话采访时说，米歇尔激发了他对饮食与健康问题的关注。因此这位曾在白宫国宴上为法国总统制作夏威夷巧克力麦芽甘纳许蛋糕的人，如今赶赴纽约，向孩子与成人们传授健康饮食知识。此外他还放弃了常做的早餐炸面圈，代之以苹果、甘蓝、菠菜和姜制成的奶昔，并且做了一次又一次。
“It’s a bittersweet decision,” Mr. Yosses said of his move to New York.
“这是个让人悲喜交集的选择，”约赛斯这样说起自己搬到纽约的决定。
Hired by Laura Bush in 2007, when he was already acclaimed in New York for the raspberry and pear soufflés he created at restaurants like Montrachet and Bouley, Mr. Yosses began moving beyond the traditional sugar sculptures and cookie plates after Mrs. Obama arrived at the White House. He was directed to make more healthful desserts, and in smaller portions, that were to be served only sparingly to the first family.
2007年，约赛斯被劳拉·布什(Laura Bush)聘用时，已经因他在蒙哈榭与布莱等餐厅独创的覆盆子和梨子蛋奶酥而享誉纽约，奥巴马夫人入主白宫后，他更是突破了传统的糖艺与点心做法。后来有人建议他制作更健康的甜品，分量更小，限量提供给第一家庭。
Mr. Yosses began experimenting with alternatives to what he called “the usual blitzkrieg” of butter and cream. Now, he said, “we replace butter with fruit purée, which gives some body.” He often uses honey and agave in place of sugar, has added whole grains to desserts and is considering heirloom varieties of whole wheat without the bitterness of wheat bran and germ in modern whole-wheat flour.
约赛斯开始试验其他方式，取代被他称之为“日常闪电战”的黄油和奶油。如今，他说：“我们用果酱取代黄油，这对身体有好处。”他还经常使用蜂蜜和龙舌兰取代糖，在甜品中加入整粒谷物，还有他制作的全麦点心，完全没有现代全麦面粉中麦麸和麦芽的苦味，如今已被视为他的经典杰作。
Mr. Yosses has also been inspired by the White House garden, where he has chosen from a cornucopia of strawberries, blueberries, rhubarb, figs, papaya, carrots, sweet potatoes and herbs like lemon thyme flowers, lavender and pineapple sage. Nearby is honey from the White House beehives. The result — oatmeal bars, baked apples and pear-quince cobblers, among many others — will have a lasting impact on his eating habits, as will Mrs. Obama.
白宫的花园也给了他灵感，他在园中采撷大量草莓、蓝莓、大黄、胡萝卜、甘薯和柠檬百里香、薰衣草、菠萝鼠尾草等香料。附近还有白宫蜂房出产的蜂蜜。最后他用这些制成燕麦夹心饼、烤苹果和梨子榅桲酥皮水果馅饼等种种甜品，这些食材深深影响了他的饮食习惯，奥巴马夫人也对他产生了影响。
“She has done it with humor and good will, without preaching, just the way you would hope the ‘Mom in chief’ would do,” Mr. Yosses said. He called her “definitely an inspiring boss, a combination of spontaneity and seriousness.”
“她这样做是出于幽默感和良好的意愿，而不是说教，就是人们心目中‘妈妈大厨’会做的事，”约赛斯说。他说奥巴马夫人“绝对是鼓舞人心的老板，既率性又认真”。
Nonetheless, Mr. Yosses has hardly turned his back on his old, sweet life. “I don’t want to demonize cream, butter, sugar and eggs,” he said.
不过，约赛斯也没有忘记美好的旧时光。“我可不想把奶油、黄油、白糖和鸡蛋妖魔化，”他说。
Especially for White House company. “For special, nostalgic occasions, we still make 20 percent traditional desserts,” he said. “Coconut cake with seven-minute frosting, lemon steamed pudding with layers of custard, mousse and cake, sticky toffee pudding, and every kind of chocolate dessert possible.”
这一点在白宫中格外显著。“为了某些特别的怀旧场合，我们仍然会制作20%的传统甜点，”他说，“比如带七分糖霜的椰子蛋糕，带有蛋奶糊、奶油冻和蛋糕的柠檬蒸布丁，黏糊糊的太妃糖布丁，还有各种各样的巧克力甜点。”
On holidays, Mr. Yosses earns his nickname, The Crustmaster, bestowed on him by a grateful President Obama. “For Thanksgiving, it is five or six different pies,” Mr. Yosses said.
因为假日甜点，约赛斯还得到了“酥皮大师”这个雅号，这是满怀感激的奥巴马总统给他起的。“感恩节时，我会做五六种不同的派，”约赛斯说。
And when you are baking for the president of France, as Mr. Yosses was at the White House last month, there are no worries about fat and sugar. The thought of that dinner, however, was both thrilling and frightening, Mr. Yosses said, because the French are the masters of the pastry arts.
上个月约赛斯在白宫为法国总统制作甜品，虽然不必担心脂肪和糖的含量，但是约赛斯说，这顿晚宴让他一想起来就觉得又兴奋又害怕，因为法国人都是甜点艺术的大师。
Mr. Yosses came up with the idea of making classical French components with American elements, inspired by the soda fountain: a chocolate malt, devil’s food cake and the brownie. The White House described the dessert as “a modern version of an all-American layer cake presented in a geometric form.”
约赛斯最后从冷饮柜中得到灵感，决定将传统法国口味与美国元素结合起来，综合了巧克力麦芽饮料、魔鬼蛋糕和布朗尼。白宫描述他的甜点是“纯美式夹心蛋糕的现代版本，排列成几何形状”。
Mr. Yosses said he thought his biggest triumph, also hardly low-fat, was the version of strudel he created in 2011 for the state dinner for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany: phyllo, farmer’s cheese, golden raisins and a little apple. When Mrs. Obama introduced him and Cristeta Comerford, the White House executive chef, to all the guests, Mr. Yosses said the chancellor and her husband “gave a thumbs-up when the dessert was mentioned.”
约赛斯说自己心目中的最佳杰作也不是低脂的，那是他在2011年款待德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)时制作的干酪水果馅饼，是用酥皮、农夫奶酪、黄金葡萄干和少量苹果制成的。奥巴马夫人把他和白宫主厨克里斯特塔·科莫福特(Cristeta Comerford)介绍给全体宾客时，约赛斯说，德国总理和她的丈夫“在听到甜品的名字时竖起了大拇指”。
In other ways, Mr. Yosses has built on the culinary traditions of the presidency, like the gingerbread version of the White House, which is the center of attention at Christmas and every year more elaborate than the last. This past year, the gingerbread White House was placed on a full-size fireplace made entirely of springerle cookies, the traditional anise-flavored treats eaten at Christmas in Bavaria and Austria. Mr. Yosses figured that about 120 hours went into making it all.
约赛斯在其他方面也帮助总统家庭确立了烹饪习惯，比如用姜味饼干制成的白宫模型，每一年都比上一年更加精致，在圣诞节期间总是众人瞩目的焦点。去年的姜饼白宫被放在用小骑士曲奇制成的真实比例壁炉旁边，这种小骑士曲奇是巴伐利亚和奥地利人在圣诞节常吃的一种传统茴芹味点心。约赛斯用120个小时做成了所有这些东西。
There have been disasters, too. Several years ago, a four-foot-tall chocolate egg, normally kept inside, was wheeled outside for the White House Easter Egg Roll. “When the sun hit the dark chocolate directly, our beautiful egg began to take on gruesome Salvador Dalí-type waves and had to be rushed inside on life support,” Mr. Yosses said.
不时也有搞砸的时候。几年前，在白宫的复活节滚彩蛋活动上，一个四英尺高的巧克力蛋被推到室外，它一般都应该在室内保存的。“当太阳直射到黑巧克力上，我们美丽的巧克力蛋就变成了萨尔瓦多·达利(Salvador Dalí)式的可怕波浪，只好被匆匆推进室内急救，”约赛斯说。
Mr. Yosses, 60, said he was also moving to New York to be with his husband, Charlie Jandusay Fabella Jr., a teacher. The two married in Washington in 2011, but “for the 11 years my husband and I have known each other, we have lived in different cities,” Mr. Yosses said.
现年60岁的约赛斯说他将与丈夫、担任教师工作的小查理·让杜塞·法贝拉(Charlie Jandusay Fabella Jr.)一起，搬到纽约。两人于2011年在华盛顿结婚，“但我先生和我已经认识了11年，我们在不同的城市生活过，”约赛斯说。
The pastry chef will not leave the White House until June, when he hopes to put together “a group and foundation of like-minded creative people” for promoting delicious food as healthy food. He offered no more details about his venture, but said it would be devoted to food literacy from the bottom up.
这位甜点大厨直到6月才会离开白宫，他希望届时能组织起“一个由志趣相投、富于创意的人组成的团体和基金会”，推广甜点和健康食品。关于未来这项商业冒险，他没有提供更多细节，只是说它会专注于自下而上地推广食品知识。
“There’s much talk about STEM in schools — science, technology, engineering and math,” Mr. Yosses said. Instead, he thinks it should be Steam, adding arts, for culinary arts. “Food knowledge should be part of a complete curriculum,” he said. “We used to learn about food as a part of everyday growing up, but I think we’ve lost that. I think it has a place in schools.”
“学校里有许多关于科学、技术、工程与数学的课程，”约赛斯说，而他认为应当再加上艺术，特别是烹饪艺术。“关于食品的知识也应当被列入全部课程之内，”他说，“对食品的学习曾经是我们日常生活和成长的一部分，但我认为我们已经失去了这种传统，我想它应当在学校里占有一席之地。”
Mrs. Obama released a statement saying she was “incredibly sad to see Bill Yosses go.” She added: “I am also so grateful to him for his outstanding work, not just as the White House pastry chef, producing the most delectable creations for everything from birthday celebrations to state visits, but also as a key partner helping us get the White House kitchen garden off the ground and building a healthier future for our next generation. I wish Bill and his husband, Charlie, all the best in their future endeavors.”
奥巴马夫人发表了一份声明，说比尔·约赛斯的离去令她“无比难过”，她还说，“我也非常感谢他杰出的工作，身为白宫甜品大厨期间，他曾为每一次生日宴会和国事访问做出最可爱的甜品；此外他也是我们的重要伙伴，帮助我们从零开始建设白宫厨房菜园，帮助我们为下一代建设一个更健康的未来。我祝愿比尔和他的丈夫查理未来好运。”
Mr. Yosses’ successor has not been chosen.
约赛斯的继任者尚未确定。