The White House economic adviser Gary D. Cohn is selling a significant holding in the world’s largest bank — which happens to be in China — as he clears potential conflicts of interest to serve in his new role.
为了撇清新角色带来的利益冲突，白宫经济顾问加里·D·科恩(Gary D. Cohn)正在出售其持有的全球最大银行的大量股份。这家银行恰好是一家中国银行。
The stock that Mr. Cohn is selling is in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, which with nearly $3.5 trillion in assets is the biggest on the planet, and it would be valued at about $16 million based on Thursday’s trading, according to details of his holdings in a set of documents issued by the Office of Government Ethics.
科恩要出售的是中国工商银行的股票。该银行拥有近3.5万亿美元（约合24万亿元人民币）的资产，是全球最大的银行。据政府道德事务办公室(Office of Government Ethics)发布的一系列文件列出的资产详情显示，按照周四的交易情况计算，科恩要出售的股票大约值1600万美元。
The Chinese bank position appears to be the largest stock, private equity or hedge fund holding — apart from his shares in Goldman Sachs, where he was president — that Mr. Cohn will have to sell because of his new job. The timing of his initial purchase of the Industrial and Commercial Bank shares and of his planned sale are not clear.
除他曾担任总裁的高盛(Goldman Sachs)的股票外，这家中国银行的仓位，似乎是科恩因为新工作而不得不出售的规模最大的股票、私募股权或对冲基金资产。尚不清楚他最初买入工商银行股票的时间和他计划中的出售时间。
Neither Mr. Cohn, who is now the director of the National Economic Council advising President Trump, nor a White House spokeswoman responded to requests for comment. A Goldman spokesman referred questions to the White House.
科恩现在领导着为特朗普总统提供建议的全国经济委员会(National Economic Council)。他和白宫发言人均未回复置评请求。高盛的发言人把问题推给了白宫。
Richard W. Painter, who served as an ethics lawyer in the administration of President George W. Bush, said the sale of the Chinese bank shares made sense, given China’s importance on the global economic stage.
曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的政府担任伦理道德律师的理查德·W·佩恩特(Richard W.Painter)说，考虑到中国在全球经济舞台上的重要性，出售这家中国银行的股票是明智之举。
“If we get into a big spat with China, it is obviously going to have an effect on that bank economically,” Mr. Painter said. “There is no way you should be a senior adviser on economic or military policy, and have a big stake in a Chinese bank. That’s an invitation for trouble.”
“如果我们和中国发生大的分歧，显然会在经济上对那家银行有影响，”佩恩特说。“没办法既担任经济或军事政策上的高级顾问，又持有一家中国银行的大量股份。这是自找麻烦。”
The ethics documents issued to Mr. Cohn, known as certificates of divestiture, and a separate set issued to his wife, Lisa Pevaroff-Cohn, indicate that the couple will reinvest the proceeds of the Chinese bank stock sale and other asset sales into certain widely held assets, like Treasury bills or exchange-traded funds.
发给科恩的伦理文件“出售证书”和发给他妻子莉萨·佩瓦罗夫-科恩(Lisa Pevaroff-Cohn)的另一套文件表明，他们夫妇二人将用出售上述中国银行的股份和其他资产获得的收益，投资某些广泛持有的资产，如短期国库券或交易所交易基金。
The certificates of divestiture issued on March 8 are not a complete picture of Mr. Cohn’s assets. They list only those that he and Ms. Pevaroff-Cohn will sell and then reinvest as a means of legally avoiding certain capital-gains taxes. Once the positions listed in the documents are liquidated, the couple will have 60 days to make the new investments.
3月8日发出的“出售证书”中所透露的，并不是科恩的全部资产。它们只列出了科恩夫妇将卖出然后重新投资，以便合法地避开某些资本利得税的资产。一旦文件中列出的仓位被卖出，科恩夫妇将有60天的时间重新投资。
But the documents do provide a window into the assets that Mr. Cohn and his wife held at the end of his 26-year tenure at Goldman Sachs, from which he resigned in December.
但相关文件的确提供了一扇窗户，让外界能够了解科恩结束在高盛26年的职业生涯时，他和妻子两人的资产持有情况。去年12月，科恩从高盛辞职。
In addition to his stake in the Chinese bank, Mr. Cohn is selling roughly $216 million in Goldman stock, plus 18 other stocks, and plans to reinvest the proceeds.
除在中国工商银行的股份外，科恩还将出售价值约2.16亿美元的高盛股票和另外18支股票，并计划用相关收益重新投资。
The other holdings include some major consumer brands, like the tobacco companies Philip Morris and Reynolds American, as well as the food company Kraft Heinz; and a passel of tech companies including Facebook, Twitter, Box, Intel, HP and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Aside from Goldman, his holdings include only one other major United States bank, Bank of America. (Mr. Cohn is selling 9,174 Bank of America shares, valued at roughly $230,000.)
他的其他资产包括一些大型消费品牌的股票，如烟草公司菲利普莫里斯(Philip Morris)和雷诺兹美国(Reynolds American)，以及食品公司卡夫亨氏(Kraft Heinz)和一系列科技公司，包括Facebook、Twitter、Box、英特尔(Intel)、惠普(HP)和慧与(Hewlett Packard Enterprise)。除高盛外，他的资产中只有一家美国大型银行，即美国银行(Bank of America)。（科恩即将出售9174股美国银行的股份，大约价值23万美元。）
Taken together, Mr. Cohn and Ms. Pevaroff-Cohn are selling small minority stakes in 11 private investment vehicles, including a group of Goldman Sachs-operated private equity funds, some of which were set up specifically for firm employees.
加在一起，科恩和佩瓦罗夫-科恩即将出售他们在11家私人投资机构中的少量少数股份，包括高盛运营的一批私募股权基金，其中一些是特意为公司员工设立的。
Mr. Cohn’s detailed ethics plan and personal financial disclosure statement, which would include further information about his income and assets, have not yet been made public.
科恩详细的伦理计划和个人财务披露声明尚未公开。后者可能包含有关其收入和资产的进一步信息。
In a filing on Jan. 24, Goldman Sachs explained that because of Mr. Cohn’s new government role, he would sell stakes in a variety of private equity funds and hedge funds managed by the firm. In some cases, the stakes were repurchased by Goldman itself, at a discount.
在1月24日的一份备案文件中，高盛解释说，因为科恩在政府中的新角色，他将出售在该公司管理的各种私募股权基金和对冲基金中的股份。在一些情况下，相关股份被高盛以一定的折扣回购。
Mr. Cohn is not the only Goldman Sachs executive to invest in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. When he became Treasury secretary in 2006, the former Goldman chief executive Henry M. Paulson Jr. sold an individual position worth as much as $25 million in the bank, according to government documents issued at the time.
科恩不是唯一一名投资中国工商银行的高盛高管。当时发布的政府文件显示，2006年成为美国财政部长后，前高盛首席执行官亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson)出售了他个人持有的仓位，价值高达2500万美元。
Goldman itself held a sizable position in the Chinese bank for seven years, selling the last block of it to end the investment in 2013.
高盛自己也曾持有该银行相当大的仓位七年。2013年，高盛结束这笔投资，卖掉了最后一批工行股票。