WASHINGTON — The White House has developed a plan to force out Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, whose relationship with President Donald Trump has been strained, and replace him with Mike Pompeo, the CIA director, perhaps within the next several weeks, senior administration officials said Thursday.
华盛顿——联邦政府高级官员周四称，白宫制定了一个逼迫与唐纳德·特朗普总统关系紧张的国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)出局，由中央情报局(CIA)局长迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)取而代之的计划，并且此事可能会在接下来的几周内发生。
Pompeo would be replaced at the CIA by Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., who has been a key ally of the president on national security matters, according to the White House plan. Cotton has signaled that he would accept the job if offered, said the officials, who insisted on anonymity to discuss sensitive deliberations before decisions are announced.
根据白宫的这个方案，庞皮欧在CIA的职位将由总统在国家安全事务上的关键盟友、阿肯色州共和党参议员汤姆·科顿(Tom Cotton)接替。坚持要求在决定公布之前匿名讨论敏感商议情况的相关官员称，科顿已表示如果有机会，他会接受这份工作。
It was not immediately clear whether Trump had given final approval to the plan developed by John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, but the president has been said to have soured on Tillerson and in general is ready to make a change at the State Department. Tillerson was at the White House on Thursday twice for meetings, but neither the president nor his team gave a public reaffirmation of his position in the administration.
还无法立即知道由白宫幕僚长约翰·F·凯利(John F. Kelly)制定的这个方案是否得到了特朗普的最终批准，但总统据说与蒂勒森关系恶化，基本上准备对国务院进行调整。周四当天，蒂勒森两次前往白宫参加会议，但总统和他的团队均未公开再次确认他在政府中的职位。
As he hosted the visiting crown prince of Bahrain, Trump was asked by reporters if he wanted Tillerson to stay on the job. “He’s here,” Trump said simply. “Rex is here.”
在接待到访的巴林王储时，特朗普被记者问及是否希望蒂勒森留任。“他在这里，”特朗普简单地说。“雷克斯在这里。”
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later issued a statement saying that “there are no personnel announcements at this time,” but she did not deny that there was a transition plan in mind.
白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)后来发表声明称“目前没有人事变动方面的声明”，但她没有否认一个人事变更计划正在酝酿之中。
“When the president loses confidence in someone they will no longer serve in the capacity that they’re in,” Sanders told reporters at a briefing later in the day. “The president was here today with the secretary of state. They engaged in a foreign leader visit and are continuing to work together to close out what we consider an incredible year.”
“当总统失去对一个人的信任时，他们就不能留在原来的职位上了，”桑德斯在当天晚些时候的记者会上对记者说。“总统今天在这里和国务卿一起参加了一场外国领导人来访活动，并将继续携手完成我们认为是不可思议的一年。”
Heather Nauert, the State Department spokeswoman, went further, saying that Kelly called to deny that there was a transition plan. Nauert noted that Tillerson not only had been to the White House twice Thursday but also had spoken with Germany’s foreign minister and the U.N. secretary-general.
国务院发言人希瑟·诺尔特(Heather Nauert)提供了进一步的细节，称凯利打来电话，否认存在人事变动的计划。诺尔特指出，蒂勒森周四不仅两次前往白宫，还同德国外长和联合国秘书长通过话。