So the reconciliation continues. Kind of.
和解的状况在持续。可以这么说。
Whatever their feelings about Donald J. Trump winning the presidential election, President Obama and the first lady have been careful to demonstrate that it is time “to now come together, work together, to deal with the many challenges that we face,” as Mr. Obama said when he met the president-elect at the White House on Thursday.
不管奥巴马总统和第一夫人对唐纳德·J·特朗普当选总统究竟是何感受，他们都在小心地对外显示，是时候“团结一致，共同努力，解决我们面临的许多挑战”，就像奥巴马在上周四首次与当选总统在白宫会面时所讲的那样。
Hillary Clinton began the messaging when she wore a purple-lapel Ralph Lauren pantsuit for her concession speech on Wednesday morning, uniting red and blue in a single shade as she urged the country to unite. And Michelle Obama continued the subliminal signals when she chose a purple Narciso Rodriguez dress with an orange aftershock sunburst curve for her meeting with Melania Trump.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)上周三上午就开始传达这一信息，当时她穿着一套拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)紫色翻领裤装发表自己的败选演说，敦促美国团结一致，将红蓝阵营团结在一起。米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)继续释放这种潜意识的信号，选择了一件带橘色余波辐射曲线的紫色纳西索·罗德里格斯(Narciso Rodriguez)裙子与梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)会面。
It was a nice bit of color diplomacy.
这可真有点色彩外交的意味。
But it also wasn’t without implicit references to Mr. Obama’s administration and legacy. After all, it was the second time she wore Mr. Rodriguez this week, the first time being for her final speech for Mrs. Clinton in Philadelphia, delivered in a navy coat by the designer.
但它不可能不涉及奥巴马政府及其遗产。毕竟，这是她这一周第二次穿罗德里格斯的裙子，上一次是在费城为克林顿发表最后一次演讲，当时她穿了一件罗德里格斯设计的深蓝色外套。
Mr. Rodriguez is, as it happens, Cuban-American, the son of immigrants and a classic American success story. He is currently the subject of a retrospective at the Frost Art Museum in Miami, chosen in part, the curator told The New York Times, because “It is very important to incorporate the accomplishments of Latin American artists, architects and designers into the canon of history.”
罗德里格斯碰巧是古巴裔美国人、移民的后代，也是一个典型的美国成功故事。迈阿密的弗罗斯特艺术博物馆(Frost Art Museum)目前正在展出以他为主题的设计回顾展。该展览的策展人告诉《纽约时报》，之所以选择他，部分原因在于，“将拉丁裔美国艺术家、建筑师和设计师的成就纳入历史正统，是很重要的。”
Mr. Rodriguez was also the designer of the black and red dress that Mrs. Obama wore when her husband gave his victory speech in Chicago in 2008.
罗德里格斯还设计过一件黑红相间的裙子，奥巴马夫人穿着它出席了丈夫于2008年在芝加哥发表获选演说的活动。
Something of a contrast was, not surprisingly, provided by Mrs. Trump. For the visit to Washington on Thursday, she wore a streamlined sleeveless black sheath dress, a matching coat and Christian Louboutin heels. Thus far, as was the case throughout the campaign, no brand has issued the traditional news release about Mrs. Trump wearing its designs, most likely because she buys her clothes herself, rather than working through a stylist or brand. (The shoes were recognizable because of the brand’s signature red soles).
不足为奇的是，特朗普夫人与之形成了对比。在上周四首次访问华盛顿时，她穿了一件流线剪裁的无袖黑色紧身裙和一件与之配套的大衣，脚穿一双克里斯提·鲁布托(Christian Louboutin)高跟鞋。就像整个竞选活动期间那样，迄今为止还没有那个品牌发布有关特朗普夫人身着自己品牌服装的常规新闻报道，她很有可能是自己买衣服，而不是由一位造型师或品牌来做这项工作（人们之所以能辨认出这双鞋，是因为它们有该品牌标志性的红色鞋底）。
Whether that will change when she is in the White House remains to be seen. In the meantime, the fact she wore black instead of her usual white or pastel shades has got some people riled up. (“Melania Trump wore a funereal black dress to the White House,” Yahoo News cried.)
至于她入住白宫之后，这种情况是否会发生改变，还有待观察。与此同时，她身着黑色服装而非她通常所穿的白色或柔和色调服装的事实，却惹到了一些人。（“梅拉尼娅·特朗普穿着葬礼上的黑色裙子去了白宫”，雅虎新闻[Yahoo News]的文章标题醒目地写道。）
Personally, I think it’s too early to judge whether Mrs. Trump thinks about her clothes in communications terms, so I’m going to hold off on reading too much into the shade. Rather, I’d say she looked polished and professional, and as if she wasn’t trying to call attention to herself, though that is kind of unavoidable.
我个人认为，判断特朗普夫人是否有意通过着装传达信息还为时过早，所以我暂时不会对它做过多解读。相反，我会说她看起来优雅而职业，就好像她没有在试图引起别人的注意，尽管这似乎难以避免。
Indeed, as Mrs. Obama showed over the past eight years — and reiterated on Thursday — a wardrobe can be a powerful platform for a first lady, making points without her having to say a word. Given Mrs. Trump’s reported antipathy for public performance, it might serve her very well as she assumes her new role.
在过去的八年里，奥巴马夫人的确证明了，对第一夫人而言，衣橱可以是一个强大的平台，可以让她不发一言而就表达出自己的观点。她在上周四再次证明了这一点。考虑到外界称特朗普夫人对公开亮相非常厌恶，在正式就任新角色之后，这可能更适合她。