WASHINGTON — President Obama finds himself under fire on two disparate fronts these days, both for the botched rollout of his signature health care program and for the secret spying on allied heads of state. In both instances, his explanation roughly boils down to this: I didn’t know.
近日以来，奥巴马总统发现自己同时在互不相干的两条战线上陷入了焦头烂额的境地，一个原因是他的标志性医改法案甫一推出就出了漏子，另一个原因则是美国对盟国首脑进行了秘密监视。他对两件事的解释大致都可归结为一点：我不知情。
As a practical matter, no president can be aware of everything going on in the sprawling government he theoretically manages. But as a matter of politics, Mr. Obama’s plea of ignorance may do less to deflect blame than to prompt new questions about just how much in charge he really is.
从现实角度说，没有哪个总统能够通盘了解自己理论上掌管的庞大政府机构正在运作的所有事务。可是，从政治角度来说，奥巴马以一无所知作为理由，很可能转移不了多少责任，反倒会引发新的疑问：他究竟能在多大程度上掌控局面？
In recent days, the president’s health and human services secretary said that despite internal concerns and a failed test run Mr. Obama was not told about serious problems with the new program’s website until it was launched this month. Other officials said the president was not aware that the National Security Agency was tapping the phone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and other friendly leaders until this summer, although intelligence officials said Tuesday that others in the White House had known.
近日以来，总统手下的卫生和公共服务部长说，虽然政府内部存在担忧，试运营也失败了，但总统是到新医改方案的网站于本月上线之后才获悉网站出现了严重的问题。其他官员说，直到今夏，总统才意识到国家安全局(National Security Agency，简称NSA)正在窃听德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)及其他友好国家领导人的电话，尽管情报官员周二表示，白宫的其他人已经一早得知了这种做法。
Opposition lawmakers and pundits have seized on the White House explanations to accuse Mr. Obama of being a “bystander president,” as the Republican National Committee put it. Even some Democrats are scratching their heads at the seeming detachment from significant matters. MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” ran a montage of clips showing Mr. Obama or his aides disclaiming presidential knowledge of various issues as well as a graphic titled “Implausible Deniability.”
反对派议员和权威人士抓住了白宫的解释，指责奥巴马是共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)所说的“袖手旁观的总统”。甚至一些民主党人都在挠头，无法理解奥巴马在重大事务上看似超然的态度。MSNBC电视台的节目《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)播放了一组剪接影像，画面显示奥巴马或其助手就各种议题否认总统知情，配的是一个毫不客气的标题，“难以取信的推诿本事”。
“It seems to me there’s a pattern here — with any bad news coming out of the administration, the excuse is the president just didn’t know about it,” said Representative Adam Kinzinger, Republican of Illinois.
伊利诺伊州共和党众议员亚当·金青格(Adam Kinzinger)说，“在我看来，白宫似乎存在一种模式——只要政府出现了坏消息，借口都是总统确实不知情。”
“There’s a point at which the I-didn’t-know excuse really violates the idea of the buck stops here,” he added. “We want to have a feeling that the president ultimately takes responsibility. The American people want to know they have a president who’s in control and in charge.”
他还说，“有一个临界点，在这个点上，‘我不知情’的借口实实在在地背离了美国政坛绝不推诿责任的观念。我们想获得这么一种感觉，那就是总统最终会负起责任。美国人民希望知道，他们有一位掌控全局、负责任的总统。”
Democrats were less likely to blame the president but suggested that he was ill served if other officials did not keep him fully abreast. “If people really knew there were to be problems, I was a little surprised that people at the highest levels weren’t aware,” Patrick Griffin, who was a top White House official under Bill Clinton, said of the health care program.
民主党人责怪总统的可能性较小，不过他们表示，如果其他官员没有让总统充分及时地了解情况，那就是没有尽到对总统的责任。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)时期的白宫高级官员帕特里克·格里芬(Patrick Griffin)说，“如果人们确实知道会发生问题，最高层的领导却毫不知情，那我会感到有点儿意外。”
As for the N.S.A. surveillance, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the Democrat who leads the Senate intelligence committee, put it sharply in a statement she released earlier this week. “It is my understanding that President Obama was not aware Chancellor Merkel’s communications were being collected since 2002,” she said. “That is a big problem.”
至于NSA的监听活动，在本周早些时候发表的一则声明中，加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)做了个尖锐的总结。“我的理解是，我们从2002年开始就一直在收集默克尔总理的通讯记录，奥巴马总统却不知道，”她说。“这是个大问题。”范斯坦是参议员情报委员会(Senate intelligence committee)主席。
Aides dismissed suggestions that Mr. Obama did not pay enough attention in either of these areas. On the spying program, they said the president was deeply immersed in details of the nation’s surveillance practices but was focused on those areas that constituted the major threats to the United States. He had no reason to suspect that Ms. Merkel or other leaders of close allies were being tapped, nor did he think to grill anyone about it because that was not a high priority, they said.
助手们否认了外界的指责，即奥巴马没有对这两个领域给予足够的重视。在监听问题上，他们说，总统深切地关注着国家监控行动的细节，只是把重点放在了对美国构成重大威胁的那些领域。他们说，总统没有理由怀疑默克尔或其他亲密盟国的领导人受到了监听，也没有想到要向任何人质询这个问题，因为这不是一个紧要问题。
On health care, aides said that Mr. Obama had been fixated on details of the law’s implementation and that advisers did not withhold information but were likewise surprised by the scope of the problems.
在医改法案问题上，助手们称奥巴马一直紧盯着法律实施的细节，他的那些顾问也没有隐瞒信息，只是跟他一样，对相关问题的规模感到震惊。
“From the moment the health care bill was signed into law the president was very focused on making sure it was implemented correctly,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a senior White House adviser. “In just about every meeting, he pushed the team on whether the website was going to work. Unfortunately, it did not, and he’s very frustrated.”
“从医改法案被签署成为法律那一刻起，总统就十分专注于确保其得到正确实施，”白宫高级顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)说，“几乎是在每次会议上，他都会催问相关团队，网站管不管用。令人遗憾的是，网站不管用，他非常失望。”
Mr. Pfeiffer insisted that the president wants to hear what he needs to hear and would not accept advisers’ keeping negative information from him. “He’ll know if you don’t tell him the bad news he needs to hear, and that’s the quickest way to be on the outside looking in,” Mr. Pfeiffer said.
法伊弗坚持说，总统希望听到他应该听的东西，不会允许顾问向他隐瞒负面消息。“如果不把他应该听到的坏消息告诉他，他会发现的，而这是从外部了解情况的最快方法，”法伊弗说。
Accusations that Mr. Obama is removed from the details of his programs are somewhat surprising given the reputation the president developed early in his administration for intense, consuming interest in the particulars. Before ordering more troops to Afghanistan, for instance, Mr. Obama conducted what amounted to an exhaustive three-month series of seminars on the region.
执政初期，奥巴马就因对细节极其强烈的兴趣而赢得了美名，有鉴于此，指责他不知晓自己项目细节的说法有些让人惊讶。比如，在下令向阿富汗增兵之前，他举行了一系列有关该地区的详尽研讨，历时三个月。
But on other issues, he has seemed uninvolved at significant junctures. He has said he learned from news reports about Operation Fast and Furious, a botched federal investigation into gun smuggling that allowed weapons to fall into criminals’ hands.
然而，在其他一些问题上，他确曾在一些重大时刻表现出置身事外的模样。他曾说自己是通过新闻报道才知道了“飞速行动”(Operation Fast and Furious)，那是联邦政府对枪支走私活动进行的一次失败调查，这些走私活动导致武器落入了犯罪分子之手。
His staff knew about an investigation into the targeting of conservative groups by the Internal Revenue Service, but did not tell him until it was becoming public. Likewise, aides said the president was unaware of a Justice Department decision to secretly obtain reporter phone logs in a leak case.
他的工作人员获悉了一项针对国税局（Internal Revenue Service，简称IRS）区别对待保守团体的调查，但却没有在事情公开之前告诉他。同样，他的助手表示，总统并不知晓司法部(Justice Department)在一起泄密案中秘密获取记者手机记录的决定。
Still, those cases underscore the difficult choices in what to tell a president. Aides determined that it would be inappropriate, not to mention politically risky, for the president to have advance knowledge of the I.R.S. investigation. A president, they said, should not be involved in such investigations or law enforcement cases because if he were it could politicize them.
然而，这些案例突显了一个难于抉择的问题，也就是说，什么事情才应该告诉总统。助手们认为，让总统事先知道对IRS的调查是不妥当的，更别说还会造成政治风险。他们说，总统不应卷入这种调查或执法案件，因为总统的卷入会使这些调查和案件政治化。
John Tuck, who was a White House aide under Reagan, said he was not as bothered as other Republicans about Mr. Obama’s not knowing about the problems with the health care system in advance. “I would never put the finger on somebody saying he should have known or might have known,” Mr. Tuck said. “What difference does it make if he knew or he didn’t know?”
里根(Reagan)时期的白宫顾问约翰·塔克(John Tuck)表示，对于奥巴马事先不知道医保系统问题的事实，他并不像其他共和党人那么在意。“我永远不会指着别人，说别人应该知道或者可能知道什么事情，”塔克说，“他知道也好，不知道也好，有什么区别呢？”
But in any White House, he said, the typical pattern is to try to insulate the president from responsibility for bad news. “If you had a good story you brought it to the White House,” he said. “If you had a bad story you put it out to the department that was responsible for it.”
但他说，不管是哪个总统执政，白宫的典型模式都是努力不让总统为坏消息担责。“如果有好消息，那就告诉白宫，”他说，“如果有坏消息，那就不要告诉白宫，转头去找应该为其负责的部门。”