WASHINGTON — The White House acknowledged on Tuesday that President Trump had a second, previously undisclosed, private conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia this month, raising new questions about their relationship as the cloud of Russia investigations continues to shadow the Trump administration.
华盛顿——白宫周二承认，特朗普本月与俄罗斯总统普京还进行了另外一次私下交谈，此事之前未作披露。在“通俄门”调查仍旧笼罩在特朗普当局上方之际，两人的关系引起了新的质疑。
The hourlong conversation in Hamburg, Germany, took place at a private dinner of the world leaders at a conference hall on the banks of the Elbe River during the Group of 20 economic summit meeting. It followed a more than two-hour formal meeting earlier in the day between the two presidents that included their foreign ministers and featured a fraught discussion about Moscow’s attempts to interfere in the 2016 elections.
这次持续一个小时的交谈，发生在德国汉堡G20峰会期间，各国领导人在易北河畔的一个会议厅举行的私人晚宴上。当天早些时候，美俄元首举行了两个多小时的正式会议，两国外交部长也有参加，双方就莫斯科干预2016年美国选举的行动举行了紧张的讨论。
In the earlier meeting, Mr. Trump questioned the Russian president about his role in the American elections, Mr. Putin denied his involvement, and the two men agreed to move beyond the dispute in the interest of finding common ground on other matters, including a limited cease-fire in Syria.
在早些时候的那次会面中，特朗普对普京在美国选举中扮演的角色提出了质疑，而普京否认自己插手选举，两人同意把这种争议放在一边，在其他事项上寻求共同点，包括叙利亚的一次有限停火。
But the intimate dinner conversation, of which there is no official United States government record is the latest to raise eyebrows. Foreign leaders who witnessed it later commented privately on the oddity of an American president flaunting such a close rapport with his Russian counterpart.
但晚宴上的亲密对话在美国政府那里没有留下任何官方记录，令人称奇之事再添一桩。在场的外国领导人亲眼目睹了这次交谈，他们后来私下评论说，一个美国总统炫耀与俄罗斯总统的亲密关系，真是有些奇怪。
“Pretty much everyone at the dinner thought this was really weird, that here is the president of the United States, who clearly wants to display that he has a better relationship personally with President Putin than any of us, or simply doesn’t care,” said Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group, a Washington-based research and consulting firm, who said he heard directly from attendees. “They were flummoxed, they were confused and they were startled.”
“晚餐上的几乎所有人都认为这事很怪，美国总统显然希望表现出他与普京的私交比和我们任何人都好，或者他根本就是不在乎，”华盛顿研究和咨询公司欧亚集团主席伊恩·布雷默(Ian Bremmer)说自己亲耳听到与会者这么说。“他们感到困惑不解，他们也很吃惊。”
White House officials did not respond to repeated inquiries about the nature or substance of the conversation, but one confirmed that it had occurred without offering any details, and insisted on anonymity because the discussion was private.
关于这次谈话的性质或内容，白宫官员没有回应我们的再三询问，但是有人确认，这件事确实发生过。此人没有提供任何细节，并坚持要求不具名，因为该讨论是私人性质的。