WASHINGTON — The White House has pressured the chief executives of some of America’s largest energy, financial and industrial corporations into canceling plans to attend an international economic forum in Russia to be hosted by President Vladimir V. Putin this month, the latest effort to isolate Moscow in retaliation for its intervention in Ukraine.
华盛顿——作为报复俄罗斯干涉乌克兰事务而对其进行孤立的最新行动，白宫出手对美国一些规模最大的能源、金融及工业企业的首席执行官施压，要求他们取消前往俄罗斯出席一个国际经济论坛的计划。该论坛定于本月举行，将由俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)主持。
The top executives of such giants as Alcoa, Goldman Sachs, PepsiCo, Morgan Stanley, ConocoPhillips and other multinational companies with business in Russia have either pulled out of the conference or plan to do so after an intensive lobbying campaign by President Obama’s advisers. Corporate officials predicted that nearly every American C.E.O. will now skip the forum in St. Petersburg.
美国铝业(Alcoa)、高盛(Goldman Sachs)、百事(PepsiCo)、摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)和康菲石油(ConocoPhillips)等与俄罗斯有生意来往的跨国巨型企业的首席执行官，要么是已经退出本次会议，要么是在奥巴马总统幕僚的大力游说下，计划取消行程。业界高管预测，目前几乎所有的美国CEO均不会出席将在圣彼得堡召开的本次论坛。
The personal telephone calls from White House officials and cabinet secretaries have put the executives in an awkward position because they do not want to run afoul of the Obama administration, but they are acutely aware that Mr. Putin takes attendance at this event, which has become an important showcase for him on the world stage. Hoping to avoid alienating Mr. Putin at the risk of jeopardizing their operations and tens of thousands of employees in Russia, several companies are sending lower-level executives based in Moscow or Europe to the meeting from May 22 to 24.
白宫官员与内阁部长的亲自致电将这些企业高管置于尴尬境地，因为他们不希望与奥巴马政府闹僵，但同时也深知，普京本人将会清点参会人员，而本次活动已成为他在世界舞台上重要的展示场合。多家企业将派出莫斯科或欧洲办公室的较低级别的管理人员出席5月22日到24日举办的论坛，希望不要惹恼普京，以免危及公司的经营，以及数以万计的在俄员工。
The St. Petersburg forum, styled as Russia’s answer to the annual economic meeting in Davos, Switzerland, has thus become the latest battleground in the geopolitical contest of wills between Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin over the fate of Ukraine. Although sanctions imposed by Mr. Obama do not legally preclude American companies from sending representatives to the gathering, administration officials have told the top executives that personally participating would make them propaganda tools for Mr. Putin, who could use their presence to refute the notion that he has been isolated internationally.
在圣彼得堡召开的论坛被塑造为俄罗斯版本的瑞士达沃斯年度经济会议。在奥巴马与普京围绕乌克兰命运问题进行的地缘政治意志较量中，它已成为最新的战场。尽管奥巴马施加的制裁在法律上并未禁止美国企业的代表出席会议，但其政府官员告诉这些首席执行官，参会将使他们成为普京的宣传工具，被他利用来驳斥自己遭到全世界孤立的说法。
The pullout could be embarrassing for Mr. Putin, who attends the forum. As of Monday, the forum’s website was still trumpeting the participation of some American executives who now plan to skip the session. A picture of Lloyd Blankfein, the chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs, for instance, was shown on the site even as a company executive privately said “there’s almost zero chance” he will go unless the Ukraine situation suddenly reverses course.
取消行程可能会让亲临现场的普京难堪。截至本周一，论坛网站上还在大肆宣传美国高管参会，而这些人现在已经计划取消行程。比如，高盛董事长兼首席执行官劳尔德·贝兰克梵(Lloyd Blankfein)的照片就出现在了网站上，但公司的一名高管私下表示，他赴会的“可能性几乎为零”，除非乌克兰局势突然逆转。
Among the top administration officials who have been working the telephones are Valerie Jarrett, the president’s senior adviser and liaison to business; Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary; Penny Pritzker, the commerce secretary; and Jeffrey D. Zients, the national economic adviser.
奥巴马政府的高级官员中，打出这种电话的人包括：总统的高级顾问兼商界联络人瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)、财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)、商务部长彭妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)，以及国家经济顾问杰弗里·D·齐恩茨(Jeffrey D. Zients)。
“They’ve basically been saying, ‘We’re not telling you what to do, but it wouldn’t look good,’ ” said an executive at one of the companies who received such a call, and who, like others, declined to be named to avoid offending either side in the dispute.
“他们基本上在说，‘我们不是要求你怎么做，不过这事看起来不妙，’”接到这样一通电话的某公司高管称。与其他人一样，为了避免惹到冲突的任何一方，这名高管要求不具名。
Some industry officials privately expressed frustration at being caught in the middle, and argued that cutting off business ties would worsen relations between the United States and Russia rather than improve them. They said European or Asian competitors may simply fill the void. “Nobody wants to get caught on the wrong side of anybody in this if they can help it,” said one such official. “Some companies are trying to do their best to avoid getting trapped in this minefield.”
有些业界高管私下里表达了夹在中间的烦恼之情，并且认为，切断经济联系将会使美俄关系进一步恶化，而不是改善。他们还说，欧洲或亚洲的竞争对手或许会直接填补空白。“如果能选择的话，没人想去惹恼任何一方，”一名高管说，“有些公司在尽全力避免陷进这个雷区。”
The White House said American government officials will not attend the St. Petersburg forum this year. “Obviously, companies will have to make their own decisions, but we believe that the most senior business executives traveling to Russia to make high-profile appearances with Russian government officials at events such as this would send an inappropriate message,” said Laura Lucas Magnuson, a White House spokeswoman.
白宫表示，美国政府官员将不会参加今年的圣彼得堡论坛。“显然，企业得自己做决定，但我们认为，如果最高层的企业管理人员飞去俄罗斯，在这类活动上与俄罗斯政府官员高调地共同亮相，将释放出不合适的信号，”白宫女发言人劳拉·卢卡斯·马格努森 (Laura Lucas Magnuson)说。
The situation has left many corporate executives anxious. At a closed meeting in Moscow of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia last week, representatives of United States firms expressed aggravation at being penalized either way. “The understanding is that those that choose to go will be on the Obama administration’s dog list,” concluded a participant’s summary of the session.
这种情况让许多企业高管颇为焦虑。上周在莫斯科举行的俄罗斯美国商会(American Chamber of Commerce in Russia)闭门会议上，美国企业的代表表达了在劫难逃的恼怒之情。“感觉是，选择去的那些会上奥巴马政府的黑名单，”一名参会者在会议纪要中总结道。
The situation reflects a turnaround from a year ago, when the Obama administration encouraged participation to strengthen trade ties. The chief executives of General Electric, Deere & Company, Citigroup, MetLife, Alcoa, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Visa, Chevron, Hill & Knowlton Strategies and Cisco Systems attended last year.
这与一年前的情形大相径庭。当时，奥巴马政府鼓励美国高管参会，以加强贸易纽带。通用电气(General Electric)、约翰迪尔(Deere & Company)、花旗集团(Citigroup)、大都会人寿(MetLife)、美铝、康菲石油、埃克森美孚(ExxonMobil)、威士(Visa)、雪佛龙(Chevron)、伟达公关(Hill & Knowlton Strategies)和思科系统(Cisco Systems)的首席执行官去年悉数到场。
For some companies, the decision has been harder than others. Industry officials said the situation has tormented PepsiCo, which made $4.9 billion in Russia last year, making it the company’s second-largest market, and Cargill, the agricultural producer that has invested more than $1 billion in Russia and has more than 3,000 employees there. Pepsi’s chief executive, Indra Nooyi, abruptly canceled last week, citing a scheduling conflict. Cargill has not disclosed its plans.
部分企业尤其难以做出决定。业界高管透露，这件事让百事和农业企业嘉吉(Cargill)非常头疼。去年，百事在俄罗斯的营收达49亿美元（约合300亿元人民币），是公司的全球第二大市场。嘉吉则已在俄罗斯投资了逾10亿美元，在那里有超过3000名员工。百事的首席执行官卢英德(Indra Nooyi)上周突然取消计划，理由是日程冲突。嘉吉尚未披露自身的打算。