WASHINGTON — President Obama has directed the Pentagon to develop an expanded list of potential targets in Syria in response to intelligence suggesting that the government of President Bashar al-Assad has been moving troops and equipment used to employ chemical weapons while Congress debates whether to authorize military action.
华盛顿——根据情报显示，巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)的政府正在转移使用化学武器的部队和装备，为此奥巴马总统指示五角大楼列出一份叙利亚潜在目标的扩大清单，与此同时，国会在探讨是否对军事行动做出授权。
Mr. Obama, officials said, is now determined to put more emphasis on the “degrade” part of what the administration has said is the goal of a military strike against Syria — to “deter and degrade” Mr. Assad’s ability to use chemical weapons. That means expanding beyond the 50 or so major sites that were part of the original target list developed with French forces before Mr. Obama delayed action on Saturday to seek Congressional approval of his plan.
官员称，奥巴马现在决心要更加强调对叙利亚军事打击中的“削弱”部分——“威慑和削弱”阿萨德，让他不敢也无法再使用化学武器。这意味着需要对原来的目标清单进行扩充。原清单是在奥巴马于周六推迟行动以寻求国会批准之前与法国军方合作列出的，包含了约50个重要目标。
For the first time, the administration is talking about using American and French aircraft to conduct strikes on specific targets, in addition to ship-launched Tomahawk cruise missiles. There is a renewed push to get other NATO forces involved.
这是政府首次谈及除舰载战斧巡航导弹以外，还要使用美国和法国的飞机对具体目标实施打击。此外他们还再度开始动员其他北约(NATO)部队参战。
The strikes would be aimed not at the chemical stockpiles themselves — risking a potential catastrophe — but rather the military units that have stored and prepared the chemical weapons and carried the attacks against Syrian rebels, as well as the headquarters overseeing the effort, and the rockets and artillery that have launched the attacks, military officials said Thursday.
军方官员在周四称，打击的目标不会是化学武器储备本身——这样可能会造成灾难——而是针对存储和准备化学武器、并对叙利亚反对派实施化武攻击的军事单位，此外还有监督任务执行的司令部，以及实施攻击的火箭和火炮。
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has said that other targets would include equipment that Syria uses to protect the chemicals — air defenses, long-range missiles and rockets, which can also deliver the weapons.
参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Martin E.Dempsey)表示，其他目标将包括叙利亚用来保护化学武器的设备，其中有远程防空导弹和火箭，这些也可以用于投放化学武器。
Mr. Obama’s instructions come as most members of Congress who are even willing to consider voting in favor of a military response to Syria’s use of the chemical weapons are insisting on strict limits on the duration and type of the strikes carried out by the United States, while a small number of Republicans are telling the White House that the current plans are not muscular enough to destabilize the Assad government.
在奥巴马的指示来临之际，愿意考虑为军事反应投赞成票的国会成员中，大多数都坚持严格地限制美国实施打击的时间和类型。而少数共和党国会议员则告诉白宫，作为对叙利亚使用化学武器的回应，现有的计划不够强大，无法动摇阿萨德政府。
Senior officials are aware of the competing imperatives they now confront — that to win even the fight on Capitol Hill, they will have to accept restrictions on the military response, and in order to make the strike meaningful they must expand its scope.
高层官员意识到了他们现在面对的棘手矛盾——为了赢得国会山上的斗争，他们不得不接受对军事反应的限制，但若想进行有效的打击，又必须扩大其范围。
“They are being pulled in two different directions,” a senior foreign official involved in the discussions said Thursday. “The worst outcome would be to come out of this bruising battle with Congress and conduct a military action that made little difference.”
“他们被拉向了两个不同的方向，”参与讨论的一名高级外国官员在周四称。“最坏的结果将会是，在与国会的殊死斗争中获胜，却只进行了一次效果微乎其微的军事行动。”
Officials cautioned that the options for an increased American strike would still be limited — “think incremental increase, not exponential,” said one official — but would be intended to inflict significant damage on the Syrian military.
官员警告称，美国增强打击力度的选项依然很有限——以一名官员的话说，“考虑逐步地、而非大幅度地增强”——但却想要对叙利亚的军事力量构成严重破坏。
In endorsing a strike on Wednesday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee made some modifications to the resolution proposed by the White House, and other versions are also being circulated. The latest is from Senator Joe Manchin III, a conservative Democrat from West Virginia who proposes giving Mr. Assad 45 days to sign the Chemical Weapons Convention and begin securing and ridding the country of its weapons stockpiles. Only if Mr. Assad refuses would the president be authorized to take military action.
周三，尽管支持进行打击，参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)对白宫提出的决议作出了一些修改，而该决议的一些其他版本正在传阅中。最新的版本来自参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)，他是一名来自西弗吉尼亚的保守派民主党人，提出给阿萨德45天时间来签署《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)，并开始安全地储存与销毁该国的化学武器储备。只有阿萨德拒绝了这些条件，总统才会被授权采取军事行动。
“We need some options out there that does something about the chemical weapons,” Mr. Manchin said. “That’s what’s missing right now.” The concept is already being debated by some government officials and foreign diplomats, though the White House has not weighed in.
“我们希望针对化学武器能有一些选项，”曼钦说。“现在欠缺的就是这个。”一些政府官员和外国外交官已经开始讨论这个想法，不过白宫还没有加入进来。
For now, White House officials insist that they are slowly gaining ground in lining up support, though the evidence is slim. “We’re very pleased with the trend lines,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser. “I think each day what you’ve seen is different members coming out on a bipartisan basis to support an authorization to use military force.”
目前，白宫官员还是坚称，他们在征求支持方面正慢慢掌握主动，尽管相关证据比较薄弱。“我们很满意现在的趋势，”国家安全副顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“我感觉每天都能看到来自两党的议员站出来支持对动武的授权。”
He noted Wednesday’s Senate committee vote and the endorsements from a range of senators, including from John McCain of Arizona and the liberal Democrat Barbara Boxer of California. “What we’re seeing each day is an increasing number of members who are convinced that a military response is necessary,” Mr. Rhodes said. “But we’re going to continue to make the case to members.”
他提到了周三的参议院委员会投票，包括亚利桑那州的约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和加利福尼亚州自由派民主党人芭芭拉·博克瑟(Barbara Boxer)在内的众多参议员都做了背书。“我们看到每天都有更多的议员认识到做出军事反应是必要的，”罗兹说。“不过我们还是会继续向议员们做出说明。”
Privately, some members of the Obama administration appear concerned that General Dempsey’s presentations to Congress — particularly his repeated assertions that any American intervention in Syria is unlikely to have a decisive effect on the civil war — are undercutting the administration’s argument that the attacks, while targeted, would also change Mr. Assad’s calculus.
一些奥巴马政府的成员私下里对邓普西上将在国会的陈述表达了担忧——尤其是他反复断言，无论美国对叙利亚做出何种干预，都不太可能对该国的内战带去决定性影响——这削弱了政府的论点，他们一直在说军事打击尽管是针对具体目标的，但还是会从根本上削弱阿萨德。
So as the target list expands, the administration is creeping closer to carrying out military action that also could help tip the balance on the ground, even as the administration argues that that is not the primary intent.
随着目标清单的扩大，美国政府发起军事行动的日子越来越近，这样的行动有可能改变该地区的力量对比，虽然政府称这并非他们的首要意图。
The bulk of the American attack is still expected to be carried out by cruise missiles from some or all of the four Arleigh Burke-class destroyers within striking range of Syria in the eastern Mediterranean. Each ship carries about three dozen Tomahawk cruise missiles, a low-flying, highly accurate weapon that can be launched from safe distances of up to about 1,000 miles.
预计美国的军事打击还是主要通过巡航导弹进行，叙利亚处在地中海东部的四艘阿利·伯克级驱逐舰的攻击范围内，它们会部分或全部加入到打击行动中。每艘驱逐舰装载着30多枚战斧巡航导弹，这种低空飞行的高精度武器最远可以从约1000英里开外的安全地带发射。
But military planners are now preparing options to include attacks from Air Force bombers, a development reported Thursday by The Wall Street Journal. The Pentagon initially was planning to rely solely on cruise missiles.
但《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)在周四的报道中提到一个最新进展，军方计划制定者正在准备包含空军轰炸机的选项。五角大楼最初是打算全部依靠巡航导弹的。
Bombers could carry scores more munitions, potentially permitting the United States to carry out more strikes if the first wave does not destroy the targets.
轰炸机可以携带的弹药要多得多，这就意味着，一旦首轮攻击没有摧毁目标，还有机会发动进一步的攻击。
Among the options available are B-52 bombers, which can carry air-launched cruise missiles; B-1’s that are based in Qatar and carry long-range, air-to-surface missiles; and B-2 stealth bombers, which are based in Missouri and carry satellite-guided bombs.
已有的选项中包括，可以携带空射巡航导弹的B-52轰炸机；部署在卡塔尔的B-1，可以携带远程空对地导弹；部署在密苏里州的B-2隐形轰炸机，可以携带卫星制导炸弹。
The Navy in recent days has moved the aircraft carrier Nimitz into the Red Sea, within striking distance of Syria.
海军近日已经将尼米兹号航空母舰调往红海，将叙利亚纳入打击范围。
But Defense Department officials said Thursday that the Nimitz, and its squadrons of F-18 Super Hornet attack planes, as well as three missile-toting destroyers in its battle group, are not likely to join any attack unless Syria launches major retaliatory strikes.
但是国防部官员在周四称，尼米兹号和舰上的F-18超级大黄蜂攻击机中队以及航母战斗群中的三艘导弹驱逐舰不太可能参与任何攻击，除非叙利亚发起大规模的报复行动。
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told lawmakers on Wednesday that an American operation would cost “in the tens of millions of dollars,” the first time any administration official has put even a rough price tag on the possible strike.
国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)在周三对议员说，美国的一次行动成本可达“数千万美元，”这是第一次有政府官员给可能发动的攻击打上价签，哪怕只是像这样的模糊数字。