Brushing aside pleas and warnings from President Obama and other senior Americans, Russia granted Edward J. Snowden temporary asylum and allowed him to walk free out of a Moscow airport transit zone on Thursday despite the risk of a breach in relations with the United States.
周四，俄罗斯不顾奥巴马总统和其他美国重要人物的请求和警告，向爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)提供了临时庇护，允许他自由地离开了莫斯科一座机场的中转区，尽管这样做可能会破坏美俄两国的关系。
Russia’s decision, which infuriated American officials, ended five weeks of legal limbo for Mr. Snowden, the former intelligence analyst wanted by the United States for leaking details of the National Security Agency’s surveillance programs, and opened a new phase of his legal and political odyssey.
俄罗斯的决定令美国官员十分恼怒，斯诺登置身于进退维谷的法律状态已有五周，这种处境也由此结束。斯诺登是美国前情报分析人员，他因为泄露美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)监听项目的相关细节而遭美国通缉。如今，他的法律和政治冒险又开始了一个新阶段。
Even as his leaks continued with new disclosures from the computer files he downloaded, Mr. Snowden now has legal permission to live — and conceivably even work — anywhere here for as long as a year, safely out of the reach of American prosecutors. Though some supporters expect him to seek permanent sanctuary elsewhere, possibly in Latin America, Mr. Snowden now has an international platform to continue defending his actions as a whistle-blower exposing wrongdoing by the American government.
虽然斯诺登通过公布自己下载的电脑文件，仍在继续披露新信息，但是他现在却可以合法地在这里的任何地点生活——可以想见，甚至还能工作——长达一年，而完全不用担心会受到美国检察机关的干扰。虽然有些支持者希望他能前往其他地方（或许在拉丁美洲）寻求永久庇护，但是斯诺登现在已经有了一个国际平台，他可以利用这个平台继续为自己的行为辩护，称自己只是一个揭露美国政府错误行为的告密者。
In a statement issued by WikiLeaks, the antisecrecy organization that has been assisting him since he made his disclosures in June, Mr. Snowden thanked Russia for giving him permission to enter the country “in accordance with its laws and international obligations.” He accused the Obama administration of disregarding domestic and international law since his disclosures, but added that “in the end, the law is winning.”
自斯诺登于6月披露信息以来，反机密组织维基解密(WikiLeaks)就一直在向他进行协助。该组织的一份声明中称，斯诺登对俄罗斯“依照该国的法律和国际义务”，允许他进入俄罗斯表示了感谢。他指责奥巴马政府从他披露信息以来，一直无视本国法律和国际法，他还说“到最后，法律还是占了上风”。
The White House indicated that it was reconsidering Mr. Obama’s plan to meet President Vladimir V. Putin in Moscow next month after the summit of the Group of 20 nations in St. Petersburg, though officials stopped short of canceling the meeting outright. While American and Russian officials acknowledge the need to work together on issues of global importance, from the reduction of nuclear weapons to the war in Syria, Mr. Snowden’s case now casts a shadow over relations in the way little has since the days of cold war defections.
奥巴马原计划下个月在圣彼得堡举行的二十国集团(Group of 20)峰会结束后，与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)会面，尽管美国官员并没有做出直接取消会议的举动，但是白宫表示正在重新考虑这个安排。虽然美俄官员都承认两国需要对一些重要的国际问题——从削减核武器到叙利亚战争——展开合作，但斯诺登一案目前已使两国关系蒙上了阴影，自从冷战时期的叛逃事件以来，很少有事情会对两国关系产生这样的影响。
“We are extremely disappointed that the Russian Federation would take this step,” the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said in Washington. He pointedly added that the administration was evaluating “the utility of having a summit.”
“俄罗斯联邦采取这一举动让我们深感失望，”白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)在华盛顿说。他还特地指出，美国政府正在衡量“召开峰会的作用”。
Mr. Putin, who spent the day at his official residence on the outskirts of Moscow, has appeared increasingly impervious to entreaties from the United States — even those directly from Mr. Obama, who telephoned him last month to discuss Mr. Snowden’s case.
普京当天在自己位于莫斯科郊区的官邸，他对美国的请求似乎越来越无动于衷——即便是奥巴马本人的请求。上个月，奥巴马还曾致电普京商讨斯诺登一案。
Mr. Putin, who met with the president of Tajikistan, in part to discuss the impact of the American withdrawal from Afghanistan next year, made no public comments on Mr. Snowden’s release on Thursday. The Kremlin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, said that the decision had been made by immigration officials and not by Mr. Putin himself, though it is widely assumed here that any decision with such potentially severe diplomatic consequences would require approval from the Kremlin.
周四，普京会见了塔吉克斯坦总统，此次会面部分是为了讨论美国明年从阿富汗撤军将产生的影响，他并未对斯诺登从机场中转区脱身一事公开发表评论。克里姆林宫(Kremlin)发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)说，做出这个决定的是负责移民的官员而非普京本人。不过在这里，人们广泛认为，任何有可能引起这种严重外交后果的决定，都必须得到克里姆林宫的批准。
“It has nothing to do with the president or his administration,” Mr. Peskov said in a telephone interview.
佩斯科夫在电话采访中说，“这件事与总统和他的政府没有任何关系。”
The Kremlin seemed to dare the White House to cancel the summit. Mr. Peskov said that Russia continued to prepare to hold the meetings in Moscow and would until notified otherwise. He said that Russia believed in the importance of the relationship for ensuring regional and global security, but he shifted the onus to the Obama administration.
克里姆林宫似乎是认定了白宫不会取消峰会。佩斯科夫说，俄罗斯将继续为将在莫斯科举行的峰会做准备，除非得到美国的通知。他说，俄罗斯承认两国关系在保证地区和国际安全上的重要性，但是他把责任推给了奥巴马政府。
“You cannot dance tango alone,” he said.
他说，“一个人是没办法跳探戈的。”
By late Thursday night, Mr. Snowden’s whereabouts remained unclear. He left the international transit zone at Sheremetyevo Airport unexpectedly at 3:30 p.m. after his lawyer, Anatoly G. Kucherena, spent the day with officials from the Federal Migration Service. Mr. Kucherena delivered him a passport-like document issued on Wednesday and valid until July 31, 2014, granting him status as a “temporary refugee” in Russia.
直到周四深夜，斯诺登仍然去向不明。在斯诺登的律师阿纳托利·G·库切连纳(Anatoly G. Kucherena)当天与俄罗斯联邦移民局(Federal Migration Service)官员见面后，斯诺登于下午3:30出人意料地离开了莫斯科谢列梅杰沃机场(Sheremetyevo Airport)的国际中转区。库切连纳给了他一份类似护照的文件，该文件于周三签发，有效期截至2014年7月31日，使得斯诺登拥有了俄罗斯“临时难民”身份。
Mr. Kucherena, in an interview, said he would not disclose Mr. Snowden’s whereabouts, though he expected that he could make a public appearance soon. “I cannot give out details,” he said in an interview.
库切连纳在一次采访中表示，他不会透露斯诺登的行踪，但他预计斯诺登很快就会公开露面。他在采访中表示，“我不能透露细节。”
WikiLeaks said that Mr. Snowden was accompanied by one of its representatives, Sarah Harrison, who appears to have remained with him since his flight began in Hong Kong in June. Mr. Kucherena said in television interviews that while he would continue to act as counsel, he was not involved in arrangements for Mr. Snowden’s accommodation in Russia.
维基解密(WikiLeaks)表示，陪同斯诺登的是维基解密的代表莎拉·哈里森(Sarah Harrison)。自斯诺登从6月在香港开始逃亡以来，哈里森似乎一直陪伴着斯诺登。库切连纳在一次电视采访中表示，他虽然会继续担任斯诺登的顾问，但却没有参与安排斯诺登在俄罗斯的住宿。
Mr. Snowden, 30, could still decide to seek permanent asylum in another country. According to Mr. Kucherena, he has not officially applied for permanent political asylum in Russia and could simply remain until he is able to fly elsewhere, though the logistics of that have been complicated by intense pressure from the Obama administration on countries to block his transit.
30岁的斯诺登仍然有可能决定向其他国家寻求永久避难。据库切连纳透露，斯诺登并没有正式向俄罗斯提出永久政治避难申请，在可以飞往任何地方之前，他只能留在俄罗斯。不过，由于奥巴马政府对各个国家大力施压，阻止斯诺登离开，斯诺登出行的后勤工作已经变得相当复杂。
After Mr. Snowden’s departure from the Moscow airport on Thursday there was frenzied news media speculation, including one specious report that he was headed to a notorious expatriate bar known as the Hungry Duck that had in fact closed.
斯诺登于周四离开莫斯科机场后，新闻媒体纷纷展开了猜测，有一篇似是而非的报道称，斯诺登去了一家臭名昭著的外籍人士聚集的酒吧，这家名为“饥饿鸭子”(Hungry Duck)的酒吧实际上已经停业。
Mr. Snowden’s official arrival in Russia was broadly cheered by many here who, like those in the United States and other countries, have defended his decision to leak the secrets of American surveillance. Ivan Melnikov, a senior Communist Party member of Parliament and a candidate for mayor of Moscow in next month’s election, called him a hero.
正式抵达俄罗斯之后，斯诺登受到了很多俄罗斯人的热烈欢迎，这些人跟美国及其他国家的一些人一样，支持斯诺登泄漏美国监控计划机密的决定。俄罗斯议会资深共产党议员伊万·梅尔尼科夫(Ivan Melnikov)称斯诺登是一个英雄，梅尔尼科夫将于下个月参加莫斯科市长选举。
“Frankly speaking,” Mr. Melnikov said, according to the Interfax news agency, he is “also like a balm to the hearts of all Russian patriots.”
“坦白说，”俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax news agency)援引梅尔尼科夫的话说，斯诺登“还像是安慰俄罗斯所有爱国人士的一剂良药”。
Pavel Durov, the founder of the most prominent Russian online social network, VKontakte, even invited Mr. Snowden to join his company and help create new security measures. “Snowden might be interested in working to protect the personal data of millions of our users,” he wrote.
俄罗斯最有名的社交网络平台Vkontakte的创始人帕维尔·杜罗夫(Pavel Durov)甚至邀请斯诺登加入他的公司，帮助设计新的安全措施。他写道，“斯诺登可能会对保护我们数百万用户个人数据的工作感兴趣。”
Lyudmila M. Alekseyeva, the head of the Moscow Helsinki Group and a stalwart of the human rights movement here since the Soviet era, welcomed the government’s decision. “I am satisfied that this happened,” Ms. Alekseyeva, who met Secretary of State John Kerry in Moscow in May, told Interfax.
柳德米拉·M·阿列克谢耶娃(Lyudmila M. Alekseyeva)是莫斯科赫尔辛基小组(Moscow Helsinki Group)的负责人，自苏联时代以来一直是人权运动的坚定支持者。她对政府的决定表示欢迎，并对俄罗斯国际文传电讯社说，“我很高兴政府做出了这样的决定。”今年5月，阿列克谢耶娃曾在莫斯科与美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)会面。
Although Mr. Putin has sought to avoid a personal confrontation with Mr. Obama over Mr. Snowden — calling his limbo in the airport “an unwanted Christmas present” — officials across the political spectrum have delighted in criticizing what they perceive as American arrogance and hypocrisy. Robert Shlegel, a member of Parliament in the pro-Kremlin majority party, United Russia, noted that the disclosures exposed surveillance efforts against American allies in Europe as well.
虽然普京力图避免因为斯诺登——他曾称被困机场的斯诺登是“一件不中意的圣诞礼物”——而与奥巴马产生个人冲突，各个政治派系的官员却仍然喜欢批评美国，批评他们所说的美国的傲慢和虚伪。亲克林姆林宫(Kremlin)的多数党统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)议员罗伯特·施莱格尔(Robert Shlegel)指出，斯诺登也披露了美国对自己那些欧洲盟友的监控举措。
“Will Obama cancel meetings with their leaders, too?” he said.
他说，“奥巴马也会取消与那些国家的领导人的会面吗？”