KABUL, Afghanistan — The leader of the Taliban in Afghanistan, Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, was killed by a U.S. drone strike, the Afghan intelligence agency said on Sunday. 
阿富汗喀布尔——阿富汗情报机构周日表示，阿富汗塔利班头目阿赫塔尔·穆罕默德·曼苏尔(Akhtar Muhammad Mansour)毛拉在美国无人机袭击中身亡。
Some Taliban commanders vehemently denied that Mansour was present in the area of the strike, which occurred on Saturday near the Afghan border in the Pakistani province of Baluchistan, but a statement from the intelligence agency, the National Directorate of Security, was unambiguous. 
上周六的这次袭击发生在巴基斯坦的俾路支省与阿富汗接壤的地区，塔利班一些指挥官否认曼苏尔在场，但情报机构阿富汗国家安全局(National Directorate of Security)在声明中使用了极为肯定的措辞。
“Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, the leader of the Taliban group, was killed around 3:45 p.m. yesterday as a result of an airstrike in Dalbandin area of Baluchistan Province in Pakistan,” the statement said. “He had been under close surveillance for a while, until his vehicle was struck and destroyed on the main road in the Dalbandin area.” 
“塔利班集团头目阿赫塔尔·穆罕默德·曼苏尔昨天下午3:45左右，在巴基斯坦俾路支省达尔地区的一次空袭中丧生，”声明说。“此人处在严密监视下已经有一段时间，直到他的汽车在达尔地区的主要道路上被击中并摧毁。”
The United States did not offer confirmation of its own. 
美国并没有予以确认。
“We are confident, but at this point we do not have indisputable facts that he is dead,” said Brig. Gen. Charles H. Cleveland, a spokesman for U.S. forces in Afghanistan, said on Sunday. 
“我们很有把握，但在目前，他已死亡一事并非无可争辩的事实，”周日，美军驻阿富汗发言人查尔斯·H·克里夫兰(Charles H. Cleveland)准将说。
Pakistan was not informed of the strike beforehand, said a senior U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
一名不愿具名的美国高级官员说，袭击的消息并未事先透露给巴基斯坦。
Pakistan’s foreign ministry issued a statement Sunday denouncing the attack as a violation of the country’s sovereignty. In the statement, the ministry said a man carrying a Pakistani passport under the name of Wali Muhammad was targeted in the strike along with his driver. It was not immediately clear if either was Mansour. 
巴基斯坦外交部周日发表声明，谴责这次袭击侵犯了该国主权。外交部在声明中表示，一名男子及其司机遭到了袭击，该男子持有的巴基斯坦护照上的名字叫瓦利·穆罕默德(Wali Muhammad)。目前尚不清楚两人中是否有一人是曼苏尔。
Secretary of State John Kerry, speaking on Sunday in Naypyidaw, the capital of Myanmar, where he was visiting the nation’s new civilian government, was the first senior official to talk about the targeted attack. He repeatedly referred to Mansour in the past tense. 
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)是首位谈论这次袭击的高级官员，周日他正在缅甸首都内比都访问该国新上任的文职政府。提到曼苏尔时，克里一再使用过去时。
“We have long said that Mansour posed an imminent threat to us and to Afghan civilians,” Kerry said. “This action sends a clear message to the world that we will continue to work with our Afghan partners.” 
“我们一直都说，曼苏尔对我们和阿富汗平民构成了迫在眉睫的威胁，”克里说。“这次的行动向大家发出了明确信息，我们将继续与阿富汗伙伴一起合作。”
Mullah Hameedi, a top Taliban military commander in southern Afghanistan who confirmed a strike in the border area but denied that Mansour was there, said: “We are going to persuade Mullah Mansour to publish his audio record to confirm he is alive.”
哈米迪(Hameedi)毛拉是塔利班在阿富汗南部的最高军事指挥官之一，他证实边境地区发生了袭击，但否认曼苏尔在场。他说：“我们会说服曼苏尔毛拉发布一段音频，以证明他还活着。”