WASHINGTON — Out with almonds, in with Doritos.
华盛顿——把杏仁拿走，把多力多滋(Doritos)拿进来。
At the stroke of 12:01 p.m. on Friday, as soon as Donald J. Trump is sworn in as president and Barack Obama relinquishes the office, dozens of federal workers will swing into action at the White House to replace one commander in chief’s creature comforts — favorite snacks, clothes, toiletries, artwork and furniture — with those of his successor.
周五中午12点01分整，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)一宣誓就任总统，贝拉克·奥巴马总统一下台，白宫的数十名联邦工作人员便会迅速行动起来，撤下一位统帅的物品——最喜欢的零食、衣服、洗漱用品、艺术品和家具——换上他的继任者的东西。
The process, months in the planning but mere hours in its militarylike execution, unfolds mostly away from public view as Americans and the world focus on the pageantry of Inauguration Day: the presidential oath and address at the Capitol, a parade down Pennsylvania Avenue, the black-tie balls.
计划这个过程的时间长达几个月，但它的执行时间只有几个小时，像军事行动一样。大部分行动都发生在公众视野之外；此时，美国民众和全世界关注的重点都是总统就职日(Inauguration Day)这一天的盛典：总统宣誓和国会大厦的演讲、宾夕法尼亚大道上的游行、正式舞会。
For the roughly 100 people who work in the White House and the employees on hand to help them with perhaps the world’s highest-stakes moving day, the official events double as useful distractions that keep the exiting president and his family and the incoming occupants off-site during the work.
对在白宫工作的约100人和可以帮他们度过这一或许是世界上最重要的搬家日的雇员来说，那些正式活动还有另外一个作用：分散离任总统及其家人和新主人的注意力，让他们不在现场。
“It’s very busy — you are on your feet constantly, making sure things are going in the right place and in the right way, and there is very little time to spare,” said Betty Monkman, a White House curator for more than three decades who helped supervise the changeover in 2001, when Bill Clinton was moving out and George W. Bush was coming in. “The housekeeper and maids are all getting the clothes in the closet and cosmetics and toiletries in the bathrooms, the kitchen staff is preparing the food. There is a lot going on.”
“非常忙，根本没机会坐下，确保一切都会用正确的方式摆放在合适的地方，空闲时间少之又少，”当了30多年白宫资产管理总监的贝蒂·蒙克曼(Betty Monkman)说道。她参与指挥了2001年那场比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)搬走、乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)搬来的交接。“管家和女性服务员都在收拾衣橱里的衣服，以及洗手间里的化妆品和洗漱用品，厨房工作人员准备吃的。很多事情同时进行。”
Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, who plan to move to a house less than two miles from the White House so they can remain in Washington while their younger daughter, Sasha, completes high school, have already begun moving personal items to their new home. Moving trucks, including one from a company specializing in storing and moving fine art, have been parked outside the house in the District’s upscale Kalorama neighborhood, and workers have been photographed carrying large cartons inside.
奥巴马和妻子米歇尔(Michelle)计划搬到一栋距离白宫不到两英里（约合3.2公里）的房子里去，这样在小女儿萨莎(Sasha)上高中期间，他们还能留在华盛顿。他们已经开始往新家搬运个人物品了。已经有搬家的车，包括一家专门从事艺术品储存和搬运的公司的一辆卡车，停在地处特区高端住宅区卡洛拉马的那栋房子外面了，工作人员还被拍到正在往里搬大箱子。
But much of the work at the White House cannot take place until the transfer of power occurs just after noon, when two moving trucks pull into the driveway that circles the South Lawn — one to deliver the new president’s possessions and the other one to cart off those belonging to the departing chief executive.
但白宫的很多工作，要在正午刚过后的权力交接结束后才能进行。届时，会有两辆搬家车开进环绕白宫南草坪的车道并停在那里，一辆运来新总统的物品，另一辆拉走离任总统的物品。
Nostalgia mixes in with the frenzy.
怀旧和兴奋相互交织。
“It’s an emotional time,” said Anita McBride, who served as chief of staff to Laura Bush, including during the 2009 handoff to the Obamas.
“是伤感的时刻，”曾任劳拉·布什(Laura Bush)的幕僚长，参与2009年和奥巴马一家交接的安妮塔·迈克布莱德(Anita McBride)说道。
On the morning of the inauguration, before the departing president hosts his successor for a midmorning tea, members of the White House residence staff — butlers, maids, cooks, groundskeepers and others — typically gather in the East Room to say goodbye to the couple they have served, often for the better part of a decade.
就职日这一天的早上，在离任总统招待继任者喝上午茶之前，白宫负责生活起居的工作人员——男管家、女服务员、厨师、场地管理员和其他人员——往往会聚集在白宫东厅，和他们服务过的第一夫妇道别。他们的服务时间通常都在五年以上。
“It can be teary,” Ms. McBride said.
“可能会让人流泪，”迈克布莱德说。
The changes range from the mundane to the significant. Mr. Obama, whose family’s obsession with healthy eating has been well documented, keeps a large bowl of apples on a table in the Oval Office and a supply of almonds for his late-night nibbling over briefing books. Mr. Trump, a fast-food aficionado, is known to prefer not only Doritos but also Lays potato chips. The chief usher is in charge of briefing the kitchen staff of any such requests in advance so the pantry on the ground floor of the White House can be appropriately stocked.
变化有大有小。奥巴马一家对健康饮食的执着已经有了很多描述，奥巴马在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)的一个桌子上放了一大盘苹果，还为深夜研究简报准备了杏仁。特朗普则是快餐的狂热爱好者，更喜欢多力多滋和乐事(Lay's)薯片。首席接待员负责提前告知厨房工作人员这类要求，以便让设在白宫一楼的食品储藏室储备恰当的食品。
Mr. Trump’s team declined to comment on what requests he has made for stocking the kitchen or redecorating the house for his first days there, and it is not clear how much time the incoming president — who is most comfortable in the familiar confines of his lavish penthouse apartment at Trump Tower, with its gold-encrusted accents — plans to spend there.
特朗普的团队拒绝评论特朗普为自己初期入住的厨房采购或房屋重新装修提出了什么要求，也不清楚新总统——对他来说，在外表金光闪闪的特朗普大厦顶层豪华公寓的熟悉环境里才是最舒服的——计划有多少时间待在那里。
His wife, Melania, who met Jan. 3 at the White House with the usher and curator, plans to live in New York for the first months of Mr. Trump’s presidency so the couple’s elementary school-age son, Barron, can finish the year at his private school in Manhattan.
1月3日，特朗普的妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)在白宫和接待员及资产管理总监进行了面谈。她计划在特朗普担任总统的前几个月里仍住在纽约，以便他们上小学的儿子巴伦(Barron)能在曼哈顿一所私立学校读完本学年。
The White House empties of all but a skeleton crew of political appointees during the inauguration on Capitol Hill. Amy Zantzinger, a social secretary for Ms. Bush, recalls walking out the White House gate just before noon on that day in 2009 as Michael Smith, the Obamas’ decorator, was coming in.
除了由政治任命官员组成的基本团队，在国会山举行就职仪式期间，所有人员都会离开白宫。劳拉·布什的社交秘书艾米·赞津格(Amy Zantzinger)回忆说，2009年总统就职日那天将近正午时分，她走出白宫的大门时，奥巴马一家的室内装修设计师迈克尔·史密斯(Michael Smith)正要进门。
“Mrs. Obama’s priority that day was getting the girls’ rooms settled in time for bedtime that night,” Ms. Zantzinger said about the first daughters, then 7 and 10.
“那一天，奥巴马夫人最重要的事情是把两个姑娘的房间收拾妥当，让她们当晚按时睡觉，”赞津格说的是当时分别为7岁和10岁的第一女儿。
A transition official close to Mrs. Trump, speaking on the condition of anonymity because she was not authorized to talk about the move-in process, said she was working closely with an interior designer to redo parts of the White House residence. (The official also would not address reports that Mrs. Trump, a former model, would install a well-lit “glam room’’ for makeup and hair preparations.) She has enlisted Jessica Boulanger, a senior vice president of communications at the Business Roundtable who has an interest in fashion design, on a volunteer basis to help her establish an East Wing team.
一位熟悉梅拉尼娅的过渡官员说，她正在与室内设计师密切合作，对白宫的部分住房进行改动。由于这名官员没有谈论搬家过程的授权，她不愿具名（对于梅拉尼娅这位前模特要专门打造一个光线充足的“魅力房间”来化妆和做头发的报道，她也不愿谈及）。梅拉尼娅请来了杰西卡·布朗热(Jessica Boulanger)，后者志愿帮忙，为她建立一个东翼团队。布朗热是商业圆桌会议(Business Roundtable)商业传讯高级副总裁，对时尚设计很有兴趣。
Mr. Trump is planning to swap the curtains in the Oval Office — currently a deep shade of red — for those used by a previous president, according to a person familiar with the exchange.
知情人士说，特朗普打算把椭圆形办公室的窗帘——目前深红色的——换成一位前总统使用过的窗帘。
At the White House, aides have been plotting the move for weeks. They compiled briefing books for the incoming first family with color photographs and architectural drawings of all the rooms in the residence, including what furniture and artwork are available. Curators, who keep computerized inventories of artifacts that are in the permanent collection of the White House and those that have been brought in as gifts or personal items, police the process to ensure that exiting presidents do not leave with anything that does not belong to them.
在白宫，这几周来助手都在计划搬家的事情。他们为将要入住的第一家庭编制了一些简介，里面有所有房间的彩色照片和建筑图纸，包括可用的家具和艺术品。一些管理人负责监督这个过程，他们把白宫永久收藏的文物，以及那些作为礼物或个人物品而带来的东西都录入了计算机，确保离任的总统不会带走任何不属于他们的东西。
It does not always go seamlessly. Bill and Hillary Clinton had to return nearly $50,000 worth of gifts they took with them when they left the White House in 2001. These were eventually determined to be the property of the National Park Service, which oversees the White House.
这个过程也并不总是很顺利。比尔和希拉里·克林顿(Bill and Hillary Clinton)2001年离开白宫之后，不得不返还价值近5万美元的礼物。这些礼物最终被确定为美国国家公园管理局(National Park Service)，即白宫的主管部门的财产。
“The Clintons were partying up until 3 a.m. the night before, so it was much more of a frantic turnaround for the residence staff to move in the Bushes’ stuff,” Ms. McBride said. When it came time for Mrs. Bush, a librarian, to transition out of the White House, she added, she made sure the process was orderly, starting in the summer of 2008 when she began gradually moving belongings to the family’s ranch in Crawford, Tex.
麦克布莱德说：“克林顿一家的派对开到前一天半夜3点，所以工作人员把布什一家的东西搬进来的时候非常忙乱。布什夫人曾是图书管理员，需要他们从白宫离开的时候，她确保了这个过程的井然有序，从2008年夏天起，她就开始逐步将物品搬到布什在德克萨斯州克劳福德的家庭牧场了。”
The newly sworn-in president and first lady typically return to the White House after a lunch at the Capitol and are greeted by the chief usher, who makes sure they are comfortable for a few moments before they head out again to a viewing stand on Pennsylvania Avenue to watch the inaugural parade.
新任的总统和第一夫人通常在国会大厦吃午饭，然后回到白宫，由首席招待员迎接，让他们放松休息一阵，然后他们又再次出去，到宾夕法尼亚大道的观景台观看总统就职游行。
“They’ll come and go quickly, which is just as well,” Ms. Monkman said, “because there is still so much to do.”
“他们回来一会儿就会走，这也挺好，”蒙克曼说，“因为我们还有很多事要做。”