In the beginning, there was hope. A racial barrier shattered. An anxious nation eager to turn the page on foreign war and economic hardship. And the audacious plans of a new president.
起初是有希望的。一道种族的藩篱被推翻。一个充满忧虑的国家渴望结束海外战争和经济困境。一位新总统提出了大胆的计划。
President Barack Obama stood on the West Front of the Capitol on Jan. 20, 2009, and dismissed as small-minded those who would question his grand ambitions.
2009年1月20日，贝拉克·奥巴马总统站在国会大厦西门，称那些质疑他的雄心的人思想狭隘。
“They have forgotten what this country has already done,” Obama said, “what free men and women can achieve when imagination is joined to common purpose, and necessity to courage.”
“他们忘记了这个国家已经取得的成就，”奥巴马说，“忘记了当自由的人们把想象力和共同目标结合起来，把需求和勇气结合起来，能成就怎样一番事业。”
Days before, Obama — the African-American son of a Kenya-born father and a Kansas-born mother — had stood in the Oval Office, in a White House built in part by slaves, flanked by four white men who were the only others on the planet who understood the burden of the job he was about to take on.
在那之前数日，奥巴马——肯尼亚出生的父亲和堪萨斯出生的母亲所生的非裔美国儿子——站在部分由奴隶建成的白宫的椭圆形办公室里。他身旁站着四名白人男性，他们是世界上唯一了解他即将承担的重负的人。
Obama began with bold strokes. He signed executive orders to close what remained of the secret CIA prisons. He ordered the closing of Guantánamo Bay.
奥巴马一上台就大刀阔斧地进行了一些改革。他签署行政令关闭了中央情报局剩下的秘密监狱。他下令关闭了关塔那摩湾的监狱。
He pushed through a $787 billion economic stimulus bill, and began the work to provide health coverage to 46 million Americans.
他推动通过了7870亿美元的经济刺激议案，开始努力为4600万美国人提供健康保险。
To Republicans hoping to temper his agenda, Obama had a curt message. “Elections have consequences,” he told Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican leader.
奥巴马向希望压制他计划的共和党人给出了一个残酷的回应。“选举是有后果的，”他对众议院共和党领袖、弗吉尼亚州众议员埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)说。
His presidency could be transformational, Obama believed. He quizzed historians on how past commanders in chief had harnessed Congress to achieve great things.
奥巴马认为自己的总统任期将是变革性的。他让史学家们回想过去的统帅们曾如何利用国会实现伟大目标。
“He had a mindset of getting big things done the way Lyndon Johnson was able to in the 1960s, and to be part of the pantheon of great progressive presidents,” said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian who has spoken regularly with Obama. “He truly believed that he could unify the country.”
“他的想法是像20世纪60年代的林登·约翰逊(Lyndon Johnson)那样做成大事，进入伟大变革总统的殿堂，”经常与奥巴马交谈的总统史学家道格拉斯·布林克利(Douglas Brinkley)说，“他真的认为自己能够团结这个国家。”
He found instead that it was as divided as ever.
结果他发现，它还是像从前那样分裂。
“It feels bad,” he said in 2010, licking wounds from a midterm electoral loss he called a “shellacking.”
“感觉很糟糕，”2010年中期选举失败（他称之为“惨败”）后处于疗伤阶段的奥巴马说。
The agent of change had become a symbol of the status quo he had vowed to upend. Obama had his health care bill, but the triumph had come at a heavy cost.
改革的驱动者，变成了他承诺要颠覆的那种现状的象征。奥巴马成功推行了自己的医改法案，但付出了沉重的代价。
“This is something that I think every president needs to go through,” he told reporters. “In the rush of activity, sometimes we lose track of, you know, the ways that we connected with voters that got us here in the first place.”
“我认为，这是每一位总统都需要经历的事，”他对记者们说。“在一系列的行动中，有时我们会忘记自己与选民的联系，当初正是靠着这种联系，我们才能有今天的局面。”
Tea Party-fueled Republicans, energized by their virulent opposition to what they derisively branded “Obamacare,” vowed not to let Obama’s agenda advance.
在茶党推动下的共和党人为了恶意反对他们所嘲弄的“奥巴马医改”，立誓不让奥巴马的计划向前推进。
And so his aspirations shifted with the political tide.
所以，他的志向也随着政治潮流发生了变化。
“I guess in my second term, I’ll be doing a lot of foreign policy,” he ruefully told a group of historians at a 2011 dinner at the White House.
“我想，在我的第二个任期，我将在外交政策方面做很多事，”2011年在白宫的一次宴会上，他沮丧地对一群史学家们说。
David Kennedy of Stanford University was there.
当时，斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的戴维·肯尼迪(David Kennedy)也在现场。
“He just felt checked and blocked and that he couldn’t get any further,” he said. “He went from a place of being just full of enthusiasm and hope and expectation and hope and aspiration to a real sense of disappointment, of being stymied.”
“他就是觉得自己受到牵制和阻碍，无法前进，”他说。“他从充满热情、希望、期待和抱负转变为因受阻而感到的深切失望。”
It never got easier. Time and again, Obama had to comfort a nation stunned by repeated shooting rampages across the country. Spending time with families who lost young children in the gun massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, in December 2012, was the “hardest day of my presidency,” he said afterward. “And I’ve had some hard days.”
情况始终没有好转。奥巴马不得不一次又一次地安抚这个多次被枪击案震惊的国家。后来他说，2012年12月，他在康涅狄格州纽敦安抚在桑迪·胡克小学(Sandy Hook Elementary School)大规模枪击案中失去幼子的家庭那天，是“我总统任期内最艰难的一天”。“而我可是有过不少艰难的时刻的。”
Obama’s voice crackled with anger in 2013 after the Senate defeated measures to expand gun restrictions. Three years later, while announcing a set of modest executive actions to curb gun violence, he shed tears in the East Room as he remembered the Newtown children.
2013年，在扩大控枪措施的议案在参议院遭否决后，奥巴马的声音里充满愤怒。三年后，他在白宫东厅宣布一系列适度的行政命令以求遏制枪支暴力时，因为想起纽敦的孩子们而流下了眼泪。
“Every time I think about those kids,” he said as he wept openly, “it gets me mad.”
“每当我想起那些孩子，”他一边说一边当众掉泪，“我都会很愤怒。”
His foreign policy was one of contradictions. Nine days after announcing that he would send 30,000 more American troops to Afghanistan, Obama accepted the Nobel Prize in Oslo, Norway. Even he did not believe that he had earned it yet.
奥巴马的外交政策充满矛盾。就在他宣布向阿富汗再派遣3万名美国士兵后九天，他在挪威奥斯陆领取了诺贝尔奖(Nobel Prize)。甚至连他都不敢相信自己获得了这个奖项。
Six years later, Obama had to concede that the war in Afghanistan would not end before he left office.
六年后，奥巴马不得不承认，在他卸任前，阿富汗战争不会结束。
But he basked in international adulation for other breakthroughs: a broad climate change agreement, the most significant in history, forged in Paris; a nuclear deal with Iran; a surprise opening with Cuba.
但是，由于他在其他方面取得的突破，他受到了国际社会的赞扬：在巴黎达成史上最重要的全面气候变化协议；和伊朗达成核协议；意外地打开了古巴的国门。
“I didn’t make any big mistakes,” the Nobel Prize winner told historians in 2014 of his foreign policy legacy. That was before the Islamic State group began a brutal offensive in Iraq, a ruthless new adversary on the rise.
“我没犯什么大错，”2014年，这位诺贝尔和平奖得主对史学家谈起自己的外交遗产时说。那是在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)开始在伊拉克发起残暴进攻之前，这个冷酷的新敌人正在崛起。
In the end, the victories were hard fought.
胜利终归是要付出艰苦斗争的。
“Yes, we can,” was his inspirational campaign mantra in 2008, but in 2016, traveling the country to promote his rival-turned-ally Hillary Clinton, he often resorted to, “C’mon, man!” He watched incredulously as voters contemplated replacing him with a man who owed his political rise to a false conspiracy theory that Obama was born in Kenya.
“是的，我们可以”是他在2008年竞选中提出的鼓舞人心的口号，但是到2016年，他在全国各地支持他曾经的对手、现在的盟友希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)时，他经常说的是，“别这样啊，伙计！”他难以置信地看到，那个靠着一个不实的阴谋论——奥巴马出生在肯尼亚——在政坛崛起的人，正在赢得选民的注意。
He smiled tightly for the cameras after the election, shaking hands with the president-elect in the Oval Office only days after telling Americans that Donald Trump could never be trusted with the nuclear codes.
选举结束后，在椭圆形办公室与候任总统握手时，他僵硬地对着摄像机微笑。仅在数天前，他还对美国人说，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)这样的人是不能托付核密码的。
“You don’t need hope when things are going well,” he said to heartbroken young aides. “You need it when things are not going well.”
“事情进展顺利时，你不需要希望，”他对心碎的年轻助手们说，“事情进展不顺利时，你才需要它。”
Ever rational and restrained, he insisted on an orderly passing of the baton. It was jarring to aides who wanted the fiery Barack Obama of the 2008 campaign.
他以一贯的理智和克制，坚决主张权力的平稳交接。这令助手们很是不快，因为他们想看到2008年竞选时那个慷慨激昂的贝拉克·奥巴马。
But he, and the country, had changed. Hope had been tempered by volatile politics, the art of the possible and the slowness of societies to evolve.
但是，他和这个国家已经变了。希望已被动荡的政治形势、各种可能性以及社会进步的缓慢所消磨。
“America is not a fragile thing,” Obama said in a farewell address in Chicago. “But the gains of our long journey to freedom are not assured.”
“美国不是弱不禁风的，”奥巴马在芝加哥的告别演讲中说，“但是，我们在争取自由的漫长旅程中所取得的收获，并非安全无虞。”