WASHINGTON — For visitors to the White House, Wednesday proved cause for rejoicing — and a post or two on Instagram — as Michelle Obama announced the end of a 40-year-old ban on photography during public tours. The first lady revealed the news in a video posted early Wednesday in which she literally tore up a sign bearing the rule.
华盛顿——对于白宫参观者，周三是值得欢庆的一天，而且他们还可以在Instagram上分享一两张照片。这是因为米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)宣布，要取消维持了40年之久的公共参观中禁止拍照的规定。这位第一夫人在周三早些时候发布的一个视频中宣布了这个消息，她真的在视频中撕毁了一张写着这条规定的标识。
The move, which drew near universal praise, is likely to generate a stream of positive images for the White House and the first family, especially among young people using social media.
这个举动几乎得到了一致赞许，白宫和总统一家很可能会因此树立起一系列正面形象，在使用社交媒体的年轻人当中尤其如此。
Robert Dallek, a presidential historian, said the change would bring greater transparency and openness to the White House, particularly at a time when Republican presidential candidates looking to position themselves as Washington outsiders have criticized the administration for being out of touch.
总统历史学者罗伯特·达莱克(Robert Dallek)表示，这种变化将增加白宫的透明度与开放度，尤其是在希望能以华盛顿局外人自居的共和党总统候选人批评奥巴马政府太过疏离的时候。
“They don't do these things without political considerations,” Dallek said. “I guess they want to show that they are not hidebound. They're not strapped down by traditions that limit what goes on.”
“他们做这些事情时，不会没有任何政治考虑，”达莱克说。“我认为，他们是想表明自己并不墨守成规，不会被一些具有限制性的传统所束缚。”
The photography ban was originally put in place to address a range of concerns, including the damaging effect of flash photography on artwork and delays in tours as visitors stopped to snap shots and strayed from the tour route.
禁止拍照的规定最初是为了打消各种忧虑，比如闪光灯对艺术品的破坏，以及如果参观者停下来拍照，脱离参观队伍，行程就会被拖延等。
The White House's decision was also an acknowledgment of the near impossibility of stopping all visitors from using cellphones to record and widely share personal experiences.
白宫的决定也表明，它知道几乎不可能禁止所有参观者使用手机来记录并广泛分享自己的经历。
While cellphone cameras and still-photo cameras with fixed lenses no longer than 3 inches are now allowed, video cameras, tablets, tripods and camera sticks are still prohibited. Flash photography and live-streaming are also banned.
虽然参观者目前可以使用手机照相机，以及配有不长于3英寸的固定镜头的静态照片相机，但他们仍不能使用摄像机、平板电脑、三脚架和自拍杆。闪光灯和在线视频直播也被禁止。
Around the East Wing, lines formed as visitors waited to pose next to artifacts or paintings. But most people did not seem to mind the added wait, even as some families snapped shot after shot.
在白宫东翼，等待与艺术品或绘画拍照的参观者排成了队伍。但大多数人似乎都不介意这种额外的等候，尽管有些家庭一张接一张地拍照。
In the State Dining Room, Kim Kesler watched her daughter Chloe photograph a portrait of Abraham Lincoln.
金·凯斯勒(Kim Kesler)在国家宴会厅看自己的女儿克洛艾(Chloe)给一幅亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)的肖像拍照。