WASHINGTON — A White House insider in the thick of negotiations over nuclear issues with Iran was fired after he was exposed as the voice of a Twitter feed that over more than two years knocked public figures and colleagues, a White House official confirmed late Tuesday.
华盛顿——一名白宫官员周二晚间确认，某白宫内部人士被曝光在两年多的时间里通过Twitter账户抨击公众人物和同僚，由是遭到免职。这名被免职的官员此前正在积极参与与伊朗的核谈判。
Jofi Joseph, formerly the director of nuclear nonproliferation issues on the National Security Council staff at the White House, was @NatSecWonk, who took anonymous and often caustic digs at people like former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton; Ben Rhodes, the N.S.C. spokesman; and Representative Darrell R. Issa, Republican of California and a nemesis of the administration as chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
白宫国家安全委员会(National Security Council)核不扩散事务前负责人约菲·约瑟夫(Jofi Joseph)就是@NatSecWonk的主人，这个账号曾匿名对多位人士进行比较尖刻的挖苦，其中包括：前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)、国家安全委员会发言人本·罗兹(Ben Rhodes)，以及政府的主要对手之一、身为众议院监管与政府改革委员会(House Oversight and Government Reform Committee)主席的加州共和党众议员戴罗尔·R·伊萨(Darrell R. Issa)。
Administration officials said Mr. Joseph was fired last week after he was unmasked as the Twitter account’s author. The White House official e-mailed to confirm “he no longer works at the White House. Beyond that not going to get into personnel matters.”
政府官员称，约瑟夫被曝光是该Twitter账户的作者，因此已于上周被免职。白宫官员通过电子邮件确认“他已不在白宫工作。除此以外，不谈论人事问题”。
The firing was first disclosed by the Web site Daily Beast and its reporter Josh Rogin, who was one of the subjects of Mr. Joseph’s tweets.
率先披露此事的是《每日野兽》网站(Daily Beast)的记者乔希·罗金(Josh Rogin)，他是约瑟夫Twitter账户谈论的对象之一。
“Just a hunch, but I have the sense lots of people would like to punch @joshrogin in the face,” Mr. Joseph wrote on the social-networking site after news reports that Mr. Rogin had been hit by a comedian at a Washington club.
“我有一种直觉，那就是很多人都想朝@joshrogin的脸揍一拳，”约瑟夫在社交网络Twitter上写道，此前曾有报道称，罗金在华盛顿的一个俱乐部遭到了一名喜剧演员的殴打。
Mr. Joseph was generally respected and popular within the White House, so his secret life took colleagues by surprise. On @NatSecWonk, which has now disappeared, he called himself a “keen observer of the foreign policy and national security scene” who “unapologetically says what everyone else only thinks.”
总体上说，约瑟夫受到了白宫同僚的尊重和喜爱，所以他的秘密生活让同事们倍感吃惊。他在@NatSecWonk上称自己是“外交政策和国家安全局势的敏锐观察者”，经常会“毫无歉疚地说出其他人只敢在心里想的事情”。目前该账号已经消失。
In that self-described spirit, Mr. Joseph made Mrs. Clinton a particular target. As secretary of state in President Obama’s first term, she “had few policy goals and no wins,” he wrote. And he called Mr. Issa “an ass,” then added, “but he’s on to something here with the @HillaryClinton whitewash of accountability for Benghazi,” referring to the terrorist killings in that Libyan city of four Americans, including the ambassador, last year.
在自己描述的这种精神的引领下，约瑟夫把希拉里作为了一个主要目标。他写道，作为奥巴马总统第一任期的国务卿，她“既没有什么政治目标，也没有任何成就。”他称伊萨是个“蠢货”，然后又说，“但他已经发现@HillaryClinton在试图洗白对班加西事件的责任”。他指的是去年发生在利比亚城市班加西的恐怖袭击，该事件共导致包括美国大使在内的四名美国人死亡。
Mr. Joseph, 40, has a background in foreign policy. While he worked for Democrats — on Capitol Hill before the Obama White House — he also had roots in the neoconservative establishment, including among the foreign policy architects for President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney.
40岁的约瑟夫拥有外交政策方面的背景。奥巴马上任之前，他曾在国会(Capitol Hill)为民主党人工作，其间与新保守派领导层搭上了关系，其中包括乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)的那些外交政策制定者。
Early in the Obama administration, Mr. Joseph was a senior adviser to Ellen Tauscher, the former Democratic congresswoman from California who was Mr. Obama’s under secretary of state for arms control and nonproliferation issues. Before that, he was a foreign policy adviser to Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, and served on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee when Joseph R. Biden Jr. was chairman.
奥巴马执政初期，约瑟夫担任前加利福尼亚州民主党国会女议员埃伦·陶舍尔(Ellen Tauscher)的高级顾问，陶舍尔当时是奥巴马政府负责军备控制和防扩散问题的副国务卿。在此之前，他曾担任宾夕法尼亚州民主党参议员鲍勃·凯西(Bob Casey)的外交政策顾问，并在小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)领导的参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)任职。
According to Mr. Joseph’s biography on the Web site of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a neoconservative group where he was a fellow for 2011, “between his stints on Capitol Hill, Jofi was a senior consultant with a professional services firm, facilitating strategic planning and policy analysis for the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts on critical infrastructure protection.”
保卫民主基金会(Foundation for Defense of Democracies)是一个新保守派团体，2011年，约瑟夫曾是该团体成员。该团体网站上的约瑟夫个人简介写道，“在国会任职期间，约菲是一家专业服务公司的高级顾问，为国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)的关键基础设施保护工作提供战略规划及政策分析方面的帮助。”
Among the associates at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies are John Hannah, formerly national security adviser for Mr. Cheney; Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia and the House majority leader; and the conservative syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer. Mr. Joseph’s wife, Carolyn Leddy, is on the Republican staff of the Senate Foreign Relations. During the Bush administration, she served at the State Department and on the National Security Council staff; in 2007 she was part of a delegation that visited the Yongbyon nuclear facility in North Korea. Mr. Joseph apologized in remarks to Politico, the politics Web site.
他在保卫民主基金会的熟人包括切尼的前国家安全顾问约翰·汉娜(John Hannah)，弗吉尼亚州共和党众议员、众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)，以及保守派专栏作家查尔斯·克劳塞默(Charles Krauthammer)。约瑟夫的妻子卡罗琳·莱迪(Carolyn Leddy)是参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)的共和党职员。在布什政府时期，莱迪曾在国务院(State Department)任职，并且还是国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的工作人员。2007年，莱迪随团访问了朝鲜的宁边核设施。约瑟夫在政治网站“政治人”(Politico)发表了道歉言论。
“What started out as an intended parody account of DC culture developed over time into a series of inappropriate and meanspirited comments,” he told the site. “I bear complete responsibility for this affair and I sincerely apologize to everyone I insulted.”
“起初我只是刻意用戏仿的方式讲述华盛顿的文化，但我的言论逐渐演变成了一系列不恰当的刻薄评论，”他告诉该网站。“我为此事负全责，并且真诚地向我攻击过的所有人道歉。”