WASHINGTON — President Trump used his first full day in office on Saturday to unleash a remarkably bitter attack on the news media over depictions of the crowd at the inauguration on Friday.
华盛顿——周六，特朗普利用就任总统后的第一个全天，就新闻媒体对周五参加就职仪式人群规模的报道发起了猛烈抨击。
In a pair of angry public appearances Saturday, Trump and his White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, excoriated the news media for what they said were deliberate efforts to understate the number of people who had gathered on the National Mall.
周六，特朗普和他的白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)都在公开露面时发难，称新闻媒体故意低估在国家广场(National Mall)上聚集的人数。
He said that Trump had drawn “the largest inaugural crowd ever,” but quickly acknowledged that there were “no numbers” to confirm it, noting that the Park Service does not issue crowd estimates.
斯派塞说，特朗普吸引了“史上最大的就职观礼人群”，但又立即承认“没有数字”来证实这一点，因为国家公园管理局(National Park Service)不会发布估计的人数。
The Park Service said in 2009 that it “firmly” believed that Barack Obama had drawn the largest crowd ever to the National Mall. Photographs of Obama’s first inauguration and of Trump’s clearly showed that the crowd on Friday was significantly smaller.
公园管理局在2009年说，它“坚定”认为，奥巴马吸引了史上最多人数来到国家广场。把奥巴马第一次就职典礼和特朗普典礼的照片进行对比，可以清楚地看到上周五的人群明显更小。
Earlier Saturday at an appearance at the CIA headquarters, Trump said the news media had created a misleading impression about his inauguration crowd.
周六早些时候，特朗普出现在中央情报局总部时，称新闻媒体对他就职典礼的观礼人数进行了误导性的报道。
“We had a massive field of people — you saw that,” he said. “I get up this morning, I turn on one of the networks, and they show an empty field. I said, ‘Wait a minute, I made a speech, I looked out, the field was, it looked like a million, million and a half people.’ They showed a field where there were practically nobody standing there and they said, ‘Donald Trump did not draw well.'”
“有很大一群人群聚集在广场——你们都看到了，”他说。“我今天早上起床，上网一看，他们的照片上是空的。我说，‘奇怪了，我发言的时候，一眼望过去，广场上好像有一百万，一百五十万人，’而在他们的照片上几乎没人站在那里，他们说，‘唐纳德·特朗普没有吸引到什么人。’”
Spicer started his first White House briefing by accusing news outlets of intentionally manipulating photographs “to minimize the enormous support” that Trump had received. He suggested that the news media wanted to compare the turnout on Friday unfavorably with the huge anti-Trump protest in Washington on Saturday.
斯派塞在他的第一次白宫新闻发布中，指责新闻媒体故意使用有偏颇的照片“淡化特朗普获得的巨大支持”。他表示，新闻媒体想把周五的到场人数和周六华盛顿举行的巨大反特朗普抗议进行比较，营造反差效果。
He then launched into a detailed technical discussion of inaugural crowd-counting, attributing clearly visible gaps in the crowd to white “coverings” meant to protect the grass. He also said that security measures had prevented “hundreds of thousands” of people from entering the Mall.
然后，他对就职典礼人群的计数进行了深入的技术讨论，将人群中清晰可见的差距归因于用来保护草坪的白色“覆盖物”。他还说，安全部门阻止了“数以十万计的人”进入广场。
“We are going to hold the press accountable,” Spicer shouted before leaving without answering reporters’ questions.
“我们要向新闻媒体问责，”斯派塞在离开之前喊道。他没有回答记者的问题。
Ari Fleischer, George W. Bush’s first press secretary, who watched Spicer’s broadside on television, wrote on Twitter: “This is called a statement you are told to make by the President. And you know the President is watching.”
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的第一个新闻秘书阿里·弗莱舍(Ari Fleischer)在电视上观看了斯派塞的发布会后，在Twitter上写道：“这就是总统指示你做的那种声明。你知道总统在看。”
The issue of crowd size, so important to a president obsessed with image and branding, completely overshadowed Trump’s messages of economic resurgence and a new war on the “carnage” he believes to be taking place in U.S. cities.
对于一个痴迷于形象和品牌的总统来说，人群规模这个问题非常重要，令其关于经济复苏，以及掀起一场新的战争，打击他认为美国城市正在发生的“屠杀”现象方面的信息黯然失色。
A photographic analysis of an image taken 45 minutes before Trump took the oath of office and an image taken at the same time eight years earlier during Obama’s ceremony showed far fewer attendees for Trump’s event.
对特朗普宣誓之前45分钟拍摄的一张图像与八年前奥巴马就职仪式上同一时间拍摄的一张图像进行分析，显示特朗普的观礼人群小得多。
The analysis, by Keith Still, a professor at Manchester Metropolitan University in Britain, an expert on crowd estimates, said he believed that Trump’s crowd was about one-third the size of Obama’s.
英国曼彻斯特城市大学(Manchester Metropolitan University)的基思·斯蒂尔(Keith Still)教授是人群规模估计领域的专家，他认为，特朗普的观礼人群大约是奥巴马的三分之一。