WASHINGTON — President Obama is poised to order the National Security Agency to stop eavesdropping on the leaders of American allies, administration and Congressional officials said Monday, responding to a deepening diplomatic crisis over reports that the agency had for years targeted the cellphone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
华盛顿——政府和国会官员周一表示，为应对一场不断深化的外交危机，奥巴马总统准备下令国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）停止窃听美国盟国的领导人。这场危机是由相关新闻报道引发的，那些报道称，多年以来，NSA一直把德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机列为目标。
The White House informed a leading Democratic lawmaker, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, of its plans, which grew out of a broader internal review of intelligence-gathering methods, prompted by the leak of N.S.A. documents by a former contractor, Edward J. Snowden.
白宫将自己的计划告知了资深民主党议员、加利福尼亚州参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)。前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露NSA文件一事引发了针对情报搜集方式的广泛内部审查，进而促成了这些计划。
In a statement on Monday, Senator Feinstein, chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said, “I do not believe the United States should be collecting phone calls or emails of friendly presidents and prime ministers.” Ms. Feinstein, who has been a stalwart defender of the administration’s surveillance policies, said her committee would begin a “major review of all intelligence collection programs.”
在周一的一份声明中，身为参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)主席的范斯坦称，“我不相信美国会收集友好国家的总统和总理的电话或电子邮件信息。”范斯坦一直坚定支持奥巴马政府的监视政策。她表示，自己领导的委员会将开始“对所有情报收集项目进行大规模审查”。
The White House said Monday evening that no final decision had been made on the monitoring of friendly foreign leaders. But the disclosure that it is moving to prohibit it marks a landmark shift for the N.S.A., which has had nearly unfettered powers to collect data on tens of millions of people around the world, from ordinary citizens to heads of state, including the leaders of Brazil and Mexico.
周一晚上，白宫表示尚未就监视友好外国领导人一事做出最终决定。然而，白宫准备禁止这一行为的消息既已披露，对NSA而言就标志着一个重大转变。NSA享有几乎不受约束的权力，可以收集全世界几千万人的信息，从寻常百姓到国家领导人，其中包括巴西和墨西哥的领导人。
It is also likely to prompt a fierce debate on what constitutes an American ally. Prohibiting eavesdropping on Ms. Merkel’s phone is an easier judgment than, for example, collecting intelligence on the military-backed leaders in Egypt.
这还可能引发一场关于怎样才算是美国盟友的激烈讨论。比如，相比于禁止收集由军方支持的埃及领导人的情报，禁止窃听默克尔的电话是个更容易做的决定。
“We have already made some decisions through this process and expect to make more,” said a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Caitlin M. Hayden, adding that the review would be completed in December.
“在这个过程中，我们已经做出了一些决定，预计还会做做一些决定，”国家安全委员会(National Security Council)女发言人特琳·M·海登(Caitlin M. Hayden)说。她还说，审查预计会在12月结束。
Disclosure of the White House’s proposed action came after the release of Senator Feinstein’s statement Monday afternoon, in which she asserted that the White House had told her it would cease all intelligence collection in friendly countries. That statement, White House officials said, was “not accurate,” but the officials acknowledged that they had already made unspecified changes in surveillance policy and planned further changes, particularly in the monitoring of government leaders.
白宫提议的行动是在范斯坦周一下午发表声明后公开的。她在声明中称，白宫曾告诉她，将停止在友好国家进行的一切情报收集活动。白宫官员称她的声明“不准确”，但相关官员承认，他们已对监视政策进行了调整，并计划进行进一步改革，尤其是在监视政府领导人方面。但他们没有具体说明调整的内容。
The administration will reserve the right to continue collecting intelligence in friendly countries that pertains to criminal activity, potential terrorist threats, and the proliferation of unconventional weapons, according to several officials. It also appeared to be leaving itself room in the case of a foreign leader of an ally who turned hostile or whose actions posed a threat to the United States.
几名官员称，奥巴马政府将保留相关权利，继续在友好国家收集有关犯罪活动、潜在恐怖威胁以及非常规性武器扩散的情报。同时，美国似乎也给自己留了余地，以便监视态度转为敌对或是行为对美国构成威胁的盟国领导人。
The crossed wires between the White House and Senator Feinstein were an indication of how the furor over the N.S.A.’s methods is testing even the administration staunchest defenders.
白宫和参议员范斯坦口径不一的事实表明，即便是对奥巴马政府最坚定的捍卫者来说，NSA工作方式引发的愤怒也形成了考验。
Aides said the senator’s six-paragraph statement reflected exasperation at the N.S.A. for failing to keep the Intelligence Committee fully apprised of such politically delicate operations as eavesdropping on the conversations of friendly foreign leaders.
助手们表示，范斯坦那份六段长的声明表明她被NSA惹怒了，因为监听友好国家领导人谈话的行动在政治上如此敏感，NSA却没有向情报委员会进行全面汇报。
“She believes the committee was not adequately briefed on the details of these programs, and she’s frustrated,” said a committee staff member. “In her mind, there were salient omissions.”
“她认为NSA没有向委员会充分通报这些项目的细节，她很懊恼，”委员会的一名工作人员说，“在她看来，这方面存在明显的疏漏。”
The review that Senator Feinstein announced would be “a major undertaking,” the staff member said.
这名工作人员称，范斯坦宣布的那项审查将是“一项庞大的任务”。
The White House has faced growing outrage in Germany and among other European allies over its surveillance policies. Senior officials from Mrs. Merkel’s office, as well as the heads of Germany’s domestic and foreign intelligence agencies, plan to travel to Washington in the coming days to register their anger.
因为自己的监视政策，白宫在德国和其他欧洲盟国面临着日益加深的愤怒。默克尔办公室的高级官员及德国国内外情报机构的负责人计划在未来几天到访华盛顿，表示他们的愤怒。
They are expected to ask for a no-spying agreement similar to what the United States has with Britain, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, which are known as the Five Eyes.
他们估计会要求同美国签订一项互不监视协议，类似于美国同英国、加拿大、澳大利亚和新西兰签订的协议，这五个国家就是所谓的“五只眼”(Five Eyes)。
The United States has historically resisted such agreements, even with friendly governments, though it explored a similar arrangement with France early in the Obama administration. But officials said they would give the Germans, in particular, a careful hearing.
美国一向拒绝签订此类协议，甚至和关系友好的政府之间亦是如此，不过，在奥巴马当政早期，美国曾和法国探讨签订类似的协议。尽管如此，官员们说，作为特例，他们会仔细听取德国人的意见。
“We have intel relationships that are already very close,” said a senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the subject. “There are other types of agreements you could have: cooperation, limits on intelligence, greater transparency. The countries on the top of the list for those are close European allies.”
一名高官说，“美德之间的情报关系本来就已经非常密切。其他一些类型的协议也可以考虑，比如合作、情报限制、更大的透明度。在此类协议的对象名单上位列前几位的国家，都是和美国关系密切的欧洲盟友。”考虑到话题的敏感性，这名官员要求匿名发言。
The National Security Agency has said it did not inform Mr. Obama of its monitoring of Ms. Merkel, which began in early 2002 and was not suspended until sometime last summer after the theft of the N.S.A. data by Mr. Snowden was discovered. But the N.S.A.’s documentation on Mrs. Merkel’s case authorized the agency’s operatives in Germany not only to collect data about the numbers she was calling, but also to listen in on her conversations, according to current and former administration officials.
NSA已经表示，该机构没有向奥巴马报告对默克尔的窃听行动。该行动始于2002年初，直到今年夏天的某个时候，NSA察觉了斯诺登窃取数据的行为，这才暂停了行动。不过，据一些现任或前任政府官员透露，与窃听默克尔相关的NSA文件，不仅授权NSA驻德特工收集与她拨打的电话号码相关的数据，还授权窃听她的对话内容。
It was unclear whether excerpts from Ms. Merkel’s conversations appeared in intelligence reports circulated in Washington or shared with the White House. Officials said they had never seen information attributed to an intercept of Ms. Merkel’s conversations. But they said it was likely that some conversations had been recorded simply because the N.S.A. had focused on her for so long.
目前还不清楚，默克尔的对话摘录是否出现在了美国政府传阅的情报报告中，也不清楚白宫是否收到了这些摘录。官员们说，他们从未见到被归为默克尔对话摘录的信息。不过，他们说，默克尔的某些对话被记录下来，有可能仅仅是因为NSA关注她的时间太长了。
“At that point it was clear that lists of targeted foreign officials may well become public,” said one official, “so many of the interceptions were suspended.”
一名官员说，“那个时候，局面已经非常清楚，外国官员的目标名单很可能会被公开。这一来，许多窃听行动都暂停了。”
In both public comments and private interchanges with German officials, the Obama administration has refused to confirm that Ms. Merkel’s phone was targeted, though it has said that it is not the subject of N.S.A. action now, and will not be in the future.
在公开评论和与德国官员的私下交流中，奥巴马政府都拒绝承认默克尔的电话过去曾是窃听目标，不过政府已经表示，她的电话现在不是NSA的窃听目标，未来也不会是。
The refusal to talk about the past has further angered German officials, who have said that the surveillance has broken trust between two close allies. The Germans were particularly angry that the operation appears to have been run from inside the American Embassy or somewhere near it, in the heart of Berlin, steps from the Brandenburg Gate.
拒绝讨论过去的行为进一步惹恼了德国官员，他们已经表示，窃听行为破坏了两个亲密盟友之间的互信。德国人尤为愤怒的是，实施窃听的地点似乎位于美国驻德国大使馆或附近区域，大使馆位于柏林市中心，距勃兰登堡门只有几步之遥。
None of the officials and former officials who were interviewed would speak directly about the decision to target Ms. Merkel, saying that information was classified. But they said the legal distinction between tapping a conversation and simply collecting telephone “metadata” — essentially the kind of information about a telephone call that would be found on a telephone bill — existed only for domestic telephone calls, or calls involving United States citizens.
接受采访的现任和前任政府官员都不愿直接谈论把默克尔列为窃听目标的决定，他们说，这是机密信息。不过他们指出，窃听通话内容和单纯收集通话“元数据”之间的法律区别只适用于国内通话或涉及美国公民的通话。“元数据”大致是指会在话费账单上出现的那一类电话数据。
To record the conversation of a “U.S. Person,” the intelligence agencies would need a warrant. But no such distinction applies to intercepting the calls of foreigners, on foreign soil — though those intercepts may be a violation of local law.
要记录一名“美国人”的通话内容，情报机构需要取得授权。不过，在外国窃听外国人通话时无需进行这种区分，尽管这种窃听行为也许违反了当地法律。
That means that the intercepts of other world leaders could have also involved both information about the calls and the conversations themselves.
这意味着，窃听其他国家领导人通话的活动也有可能既涉及与通话有关的信息，也涉及通话内容本身。
Dennis C. Blair, Mr. Obama’s first director of national intelligence, declined to speak specifically about the Merkel case. But he said he had little patience for the complaints of foreign leaders. “If any foreign leader is talking on a cellphone or communicating on unclassified email, what the U.S. might learn is the least of their problems.”
奥巴马的第一任国家情报总监丹尼斯·C·布莱尔(Dennis C. Blair)拒绝专门谈论默克尔的案子。不过他说，他没兴趣听取外国领导人的投诉。“外国领导人既然要打手机，或者用没有加密的电子邮件进行交流，那就说明他们根本不在乎美国会从中获得什么情报。”
In addition to the Germans, European Union officials and members of the European Parliament are descending on Washington to deliver a tough message: The N.S.A.’s surveillance is unacceptable and has eroded trust between the United States and Europe.
除了德国人之外，欧盟官员和欧洲议会(European Parliament)的成员也准备突击访问华盛顿，意在传递一条强硬的讯息：NSA的监听行为不可接受，已经侵蚀了美国和欧洲之间的信任。
“The key message is there is a problem,” said Silvia Kofler, a spokeswoman for the European Union. “We need to re-establish the trust between partners. You don’t spy on partners.”
“关键讯息是，问题确实存在，”欧盟女发言人西尔维娅·科夫勒(Silvia Kofler)说。“我们需要重建伙伴之间的信任。你不会监视自己的伙伴。”