It has been rare to find Ben Rhodes’s name in news stories about the large events of the past seven years, unless you are looking for the quotation from an unnamed senior official in Paragraph 9. He is invisible because he is not an egotist, and because he is devoted to the president. But once you are attuned to the distinctive qualities of Rhodes’s voice — which is often laced with aggressive contempt for anyone or anything that stands in the president’s way — you can hear him everywhere.
过去七年，本·罗兹(Ben Rhodes)的名字很少出现在关于重大事件的新闻报道里，除非是文章的第九段里引用了一位未透露姓名的高级官员的话。他仿佛是隐形的，因为他并不是一个以自我为中心的人，也因为他对总统忠心耿耿。但是一旦你习惯了罗兹的独特语气——通常点缀着对阻碍总统去路的所有人与事的激烈抨击——你就会在许多地方看到他。
Rhodes’s mother and father are not interested in talking about Rhodes. Neither is his older brother, David, who is president of CBS News, an organization that recently revived the effort to declassify the contents of the redacted 28 pages of the Sept. 11 report on the eve of Obama’s visit to Saudi Arabia, on which Rhodes, as usual, accompanied the president. The brothers are close, but they often go months without seeing each other. “He was like the kid who carried the briefcase to school,” Ben says of his brother, who worked at Fox News and Bloomberg before moving to CBS. “I actually didn’t do that great in high school because I was drinking and smoking pot and hanging out in Central Park.”
罗兹的父母不太愿意谈起罗兹。他的哥哥，CBS新闻台的主席大卫(David)也一样。在奥巴马出访沙特阿拉伯之前（罗兹当然和往常一样随同前往），CBS刚刚重新开始为解密经编辑后为28页的911事件报告而努力。兄弟俩关系亲密，但他们经常几个月也见不到面。“他是那种带着公文包去上学的小孩，”本这么说起哥哥，在CBS工作之前，大卫曾在Fox新闻台和彭博社工作过。“我在高中的成绩其实不怎么样，因为我喝酒，抽大麻，还老在中央公园晃荡。”
Rhodes’s impassioned yet depressive vibe, which I feel in his stray remarks and in the strangeness of his decision to allow me to roam around the White House, stems in part from feeling overloaded; he wishes he had more time to think and write. His mother is Jewish from the Upper East Side, and worships John Updike, and reads The New Yorker. His father is a Texan lawyer who took his sons to St. Thomas Episcopal Church once a month, where Rhodes felt like the Jewish kid in church, the same way he felt like a “Jewish Christian” at Passover Seders. His New York City prep-school-kid combination of vulnerability, brattiness and passionate hatred for phonies suggests an only slightly updated version of what Holden Caulfield might have been like if he grew up to work in the West Wing.
罗兹身上有种热情而又抑郁的气质，这可以在他随口的言论，以及他允许我在白宫内随便乱转的奇怪决定中感受到，可能部分是因为他觉得自己有点不堪重负了；他希望自己能有更多时间去思考和写作。他的母亲是来自上东区的犹太人，崇拜约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)，爱读《纽约客》杂志(The New Yorker)。他的父亲是来自得克萨斯州的律师，以前每月都要带两个儿子去圣托马斯主教教堂一次，作为教堂里的犹太小孩，罗兹感觉就像是逾越节家宴上的“犹太基督徒”。他在纽约读大学预科的经历充满了脆弱、暴躁与对虚伪的激烈憎恨，如果《麦田里的守望者》主角霍尔顿·考尔菲德(Holden Caulfield)生活在当代，长大以后进入白宫西翼工作，说不定就是这个样子。
Rhodes’s windowless back office, which doesn’t have a TV screen, is an oasis of late-night calm in a building devoted to the performance of power. The walls are painted a soft creamy color, which gives it the feel of an upscale hotel room with the drapes closed. He arrives here every morning between 8 and 9 from a modest two-bedroom apartment in a grad-student-type building in an unpretentious Washington neighborhood around the corner from his favorite post-collegiate bar. Before coming to work, he walks his 1-year-old daughter to day care. Then he drives to work in his Beamer, which appears to be the one grown-up luxury he and his wife, Ann Norris, who works in the State Department and longs to return to her childhood home of California, can afford. When his wife takes the car, he rides the bus, which offers him a touch of the anonymity he craves. His days at the White House start with the president’s daily briefing, which usually includes the vice president, National Security Adviser Susan Rice, Deputy National Security Adviser Avril Haines and Homeland Security Adviser Lisa Monaco.
在这样一栋一心展现权力的建筑里，罗兹没有窗子的办公室里间不设一块电视屏幕，这里堪称一处绿洲，在深夜显得格外宁静。办公室的墙壁漆成了柔和的浅黄色，有点像拉下窗帘的高级酒店房间。每天早上，他都在八九点之间来到这里。他住在华盛顿一个简朴的两卧公寓，公寓位于一个朴实无华的社区里一栋研究生宿舍风格的楼里，他最爱去的大学毕业生酒吧就在街角。上班之前，他会走路送自己一岁大的女儿去日托所。然后开着自己的Beamer车去工作，他的妻子安·诺里斯(Ann Norris)在国务院工作，一直渴望回到加利福尼亚的故乡，这辆车子对于他俩来说，算是能负担得起的成人奢侈品。如果妻子要开车，他就坐公共汽车，这样就可以像他一直渴望的那样泯然众人片刻。他在白宫的一天以参加总统的每日简报开始，出席的通常有副总统、国家安全顾问苏珊·赖斯(Susan Rice)、国家安全副顾问埃夫里尔·海恩斯(Avril Haines)和国土安全顾问莉萨·莫纳科(Lisa Monaco)。
The books on his shelves are a mix of DeLillo novels, history books, recondite tomes on Cuba and Burma and adventure-wonk stuff like Mark Mazzetti’s “The Way of the Knife.” C. S. Lewis makes an appearance here, alongside a volume of Lincoln speeches (Obama tells all his speechwriters to read Lincoln) and George Orwell’s “All Art Is Propaganda.” I have seen the same books on the shelves of plenty of Brooklyn apartments. Yet some large part of the recent history of America and its role in the world turns on the fact that the entirely familiar person sitting at the desk in front of me, who seems not unlike other weed-smokers I know who write Frederick Barthelme-type short stories, has achieved a “mind meld” with President Obama and used his skills to help execute a radical shift in American foreign policy.
他的书架上有德里罗(DeLillo)的小说、历史书、关于古巴和缅甸的大部头专著，还有些冒险专家的作品，比如马克·玛泽蒂(Mark Mazzetti)的《刀之路》(The Way of the Knife)。C·S·刘易斯(C. S. Lewis)的书放在林肯演讲集旁边（奥巴马让自己的演讲撰稿人们多看看林肯），还有乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)的《一切艺术都是宣传》(All Art Is Propaganda)。我在不少布鲁克林的公寓里看见过这些书。不过这里还有不少书是关于美国的近期历史，以及它在这个世界上所扮演的角色，这表明这个平易近人、坐在我面前的书桌后面，看上去一点也不像弗里德里克·巴塞尔姆式短篇小说里的大麻烟鬼的人确实能和奥巴马总统“心灵融合”，他一直在使用自己的才能，令美国的外交政策产生重大转变。
So I wonder: How did he get from there to here?
于是我想：他到底是怎么完成这种转变的？
The story that Rhodes published in The Beloit Fiction Journal is a good place to start.
罗兹在《贝洛伊特小说期刊》上发表的那篇小说是个好开始。
 The goldfish idea, I’m told, had been Ms. Wellberg’s.“Why?” I ask. She is dyed blond, slim, petite, attractive.“You take meticulous notes,” she slurs.
我被告知，关于金鱼的主意其实是威尔伯格女士想出来的。“为什么？”我问。她染了金发，苗条、娇小，迷人。“你做了很详细的笔记，”她含糊地说。
The editor at Foreign Policy who read “Goldfish,” which Rhodes attached with his query letter, said that the young M.F.A. would be bored with fact-checking. Instead, he suggested that he apply for a job with Lee Hamilton, the onetime congressman from Indiana, who was looking for a speechwriter.
《外交政策》的编辑读了罗兹随求职信附上的《金鱼》，觉得这位年轻的艺术硕士肯定会厌倦事实核查工作。他建议罗兹向李·汉密尔顿(Lee Hamilton)申请一份工作，他是当时印第安纳州的国会议员，正在找演讲撰稿人。
“I was surprised,” Hamilton remembered. “What the hell does a guy who wanted to write fiction come to me for?” But he had always found writers useful, and Rhodes’s writing sample was the best in the pile. So he hired him on at the Wilson Center, a nonpartisan think tank. Though Rhodes never said a word in meetings, Hamilton says, he had a keen understanding of what was going on and a talent for putting the positions of distinguished participants down on paper. “I immediately understood that it’s a very important quality for a staffer,” Hamilton explained, “that he could come into a meeting and decide what was decided.” I suggested that the phrase “decide what was decided” is suggestive of the enormous power that might accrue to someone with Rhodes’s gifts. Hamilton nodded. “Absolutely,” he said.
“我很惊讶，”汉密尔顿回忆。“一个想写小说的家伙来找我干什么？”但他觉得作家总是有用的，而且罗兹的样稿是求职者中最好的。于是他就让罗兹进了无党派智库威尔逊中心(Wilson Center)。汉密尔顿说，尽管罗兹在会议上从来不发一言，但他对事态有着敏锐的理解力，能够把不同参与者的立场落在纸上。“我一下就明白，对于一个政治机构内的工作人员来说，这是一种非常重要的能力，”汉密尔顿解释说，“他可以参加一个会议，并决定会议到底要决定什么问题。”我说，“决定会议到底要决定什么问题”这句话让人觉得，巨大的权力迟早会渐渐落在拥有罗兹这样才能的人身上。汉密尔顿点头。“没错，”他说。
The notes go on and on. They have ideas with subsets of ideas and reactions to ideas indented beneath the original ideas. The handwriting is perfect. The representation of what happened in the meetings immaculate, like a mirror’s reflection after it has been scrubbed clean. I have a reputation for my notes.
笔记在不断继续。他们为这些主意做了分组，对原有的主意下面标注的主意做了回应。手写的字迹非常工整。在会议上对事态的描述无懈可击，就像擦拭干净的镜子里的映像。我因为做笔记出了名。
Rhodes served as Hamilton’s staff member on the 9/11 Commission, where he met Denis McDonough, another Hamilton protégé, who had gone on to work for Tom Daschle in the Senate. Rhodes then became the chief note-taker for the Iraq Study Group, the bipartisan commission that excoriated George Bush’s war in Iraq. He accompanied Hamilton and his Republican counterpart on the group, former secretary of state and Bush family intimate James Baker, to their meetings with Colin Powell, Condoleezza Rice, Stephen Hadley, David Petraeus and many others (Vice President Dick Cheney met with the group but didn’t say a word). According to both Hamilton and Edward Djerejian, Baker’s second on the I.S.G., Rhodes’s opinions were helpful in shaping the group’s conclusions — a scathing indictment of the policy makers responsible for invading Iraq. For Rhodes, who wrote much of the I.S.G. report, the Iraq war was proof, in black and white, not of the complexity of international affairs or the many perils attendant on political decision-making but of the fact that the decision-makers were morons.
罗兹成了汉密尔顿911委员会中的工作人员，在那里他遇到了汉密尔顿的另一个门生——丹尼斯·麦克多诺(Denis McDonough)，后来他为参议院的汤姆·达施勒(Tom Daschle)工作。罗兹后来又成了伊拉克研究小组(Iraq Study Group)的主要笔记记录者，这个两党联合委员会严厉谴责乔治·布什(George Bush)对伊拉克发动的战争。他陪同汉密尔顿以及该小组与他职位相当的共和党人，前国务卿及布什家族的密友詹姆斯·贝克(James Baker)，与科林·鲍威尔(Colin Powell)、康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)、斯蒂芬·哈利德(Stephen Hadley)、大卫·彼得雷乌斯(David Petraeus)等多人开会（副总统迪克·切尼[Dick Cheney]也同这个小组看会，但从来不发言）。根据哈密尔顿和贝克在伊拉克研究小组的二把手爱德华·杰雷吉安(Edward Djerejian)的说法，小组最后决定要严厉声讨同入侵伊拉克有关的决策者，罗兹的意见在其中发挥了作用。罗兹写了不少伊拉克研究小组的报告，对于他来说，伊拉克战争并没有证明国际问题有多么错综复杂， 也没有证明政治决策会带来许多风险，而是明明白白地证实了当时的决策者都是傻瓜。
One result of this experience was that when Rhodes joined the Obama campaign in 2007, he arguably knew more about the Iraq war than the candidate himself, or any of his advisers. He had also developed a healthy contempt for the American foreign-policy establishment, including editors and reporters at The New York Times, The Washington Post, The New Yorker and elsewhere, who at first applauded the Iraq war and then sought to pin all the blame on Bush and his merry band of neocons when it quickly turned sour. If anything, that anger has grown fiercer during Rhodes’s time in the White House. He referred to the American foreign-policy establishment as the Blob. According to Rhodes, the Blob includes Hillary Clinton, Robert Gates and other Iraq-war promoters from both parties who now whine incessantly about the collapse of the American security order in Europe and the Middle East.
这一经历的一个结果是，罗兹2007年加入奥巴马竞选团队时，他肯定比这位候选人本人以及他的其他顾问都更了解伊拉克战争。他也非常看不起美国的外交政策权力集团，包括《纽约时报》、《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)和《纽约客》等媒体的编辑和记者，他们一开始称赞伊拉克战争，等它出现问题时，又把所有的责任都推到布什以及他的新保守主义团队身上。实际上，罗兹在白宫工作期间，那种愤怒更强烈了。他说美国的外交政策权力集团是一群乌合之众。在罗兹看来，这个集团包括希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和罗伯特·盖茨(Robert Gates)等两党里支持伊拉克战争的人——现在这些人在不停悲叹美国在欧洲和中东的安全秩序在崩溃。
Boost thinks very highly of me. My notes are so impressive that they have taken on the form of ideas, he feels. I capture other people’s words in a manner that not only organizes them, but inserts a clarity and purpose that was not present in the original idea. Connections are made between two opposing ideas that were not apparent in the meeting. I have gotten at not only the representation of things, but the way that the mind actually works.
布斯特(Boost)很看重我。我的笔记令人印象深刻，它们是以想法的形式呈现的（他感觉）。我理解别人的话语时，不仅重新组织它们，而且让它们比原话更清晰，目的更明确。我能在两个对立的观点之间找到联系，这种联系在会议上不是很明显。我不仅能理解表达出来的话语，而且能看透话语背后的真实想法。
Jon Favreau, then the campaign’s lead speechwriter, felt as if he could use a foreign-affairs expert who could write. “Foreign-policy advisers kept changing all the language that made Obama sound like he wasn’t part of the Democratic foreign-policy establishment,” he remembers. “The idea of someone with a masters in fiction who had also co-authored the Iraq Study Group and 9/11 Commission reports seemed perfect for a candidate who put so much emphasis on storytelling.” The two young speechwriters quickly found themselves to be in sync. “He truly gives zero [expletive] about what most people in Washington think,” Favreau says admiringly of Rhodes. “I think he’s always seen his time there as temporary and won’t care if he’s never again invited to a cocktail party, or asked to appear on ‘Morning Joe,’ or inducted into the Council on Foreign Relations hall of fame or whatever the hell they do there.”
当时的竞选演讲主撰稿人乔恩·法夫罗(Jon Favreau)觉得似乎可以聘用一名善于写作的外交事务专家。“外交政策顾问们不断改变措辞，这会让奥巴马听起来不像是民主党外交政策权力集团的一员，”他回忆说，“对这位非常注重叙事的候选人来说，一个拥有虚构写作硕士学位、曾参与撰写伊拉克研究小组和9·11委员会的研究报告的人似乎是完美的选择。”这两位年轻的演讲稿撰写人很快发现他们很合拍。“他真的毫不在乎华盛顿大部分人怎么想，”法夫罗提到罗兹时钦佩地说道，“我觉得，他一直认为自己在白宫的工作是暂时的，他不在乎自己是否永远不再被邀请参加鸡尾酒会，不再在《早安，乔》节目(Morning Joe)中亮相，或者不再被列入外交学会名人堂或者其他什么玩意。”
I sit next to Boost in the meetings. The ideas fly like radio waves. I am silent in these meetings, taking notes.
在会议上，我坐在布斯特旁边。众人的观点像电台电波一样飞来飞去。在这些会议上，我保持沉默，只做笔记。
“He was easily underestimatable,” Samantha Power recalls, of Rhodes’s arrival on the Obama campaign in 2007. Herself a writer, whose history of America’s responses to genocide, “A Problem From Hell,” won the Pulitzer Prize, Power went to work in Obama’s Senate office in 2005. Power is now the American ambassador to the United Nations. Her attire suggests a disingenuous ambivalence about her role in government that appears to be common among her cohort in the Obama administration, with a cardigan made of thick, expensive-looking cashmere worn over a simple frock, along with silver spray-painted rock ’n’ roll sneakers. See, I’m sympatico, the sneakers proclaim.
“他很容易被低估，”萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)谈起罗兹2007年刚加入奥巴马竞选团队的情况时说。鲍尔也是一名作家，她的《来自地狱的问题》(A Problem From Hell)一书讲述的是美国对种族灭绝反应的历史，曾获得普利策奖。从2005年起，鲍尔开始在奥巴马的参议院办公室工作。现在她是美国驻联合国大使。虽然刻意隐藏，但她的着装流露出她对自己在政府中的角色存在矛盾心理——这种心理似乎在奥巴马政府里她的同行中很常见。她穿着用看起来很昂贵的厚实羊绒做成的开襟毛衣，里面穿着一件样式简单的连衣裙，脚上穿着一双银色喷染摇滚风格运动鞋。这双运动鞋似乎在宣告：瞧我多有亲和力。
Early on, what struck her about Rhodes was how strategic he was. “He was leading quietly, initially, and mainly just through track changes, like what to accept and reject,” she says. When I ask her where Rhodes’s control over drafts of the candidate’s speeches came from, she immediately answers, “Obama,” but then qualifies her answer. “But it was Hobbesian,” she adds. “He had the pen. And he understood intuitively that having the pen gave him that control.” His judgment was superior to that of his rivals, and he refused to ever back down. “He was just defiant,” she recalls. “He was like: ‘No, I’m not. That’s bad. Obama wouldn’t want that.’ ”
一开始，罗兹的策略给鲍尔留下了深刻印象。“他不动声色地主动进行引导，主要通过跟踪变化，比如接受什么、拒绝什么，”她说道。当我问她罗兹对这位候选人演讲稿的控制权来自何处时，她马上回答说“奥巴马”，不过她接着修正了自己的回答。“实际上是因为霍布斯哲学，”她补充说，“他是执笔者。他本能地知道，作为执笔人，他有控制权。”他的判断力胜过他的对手们，而且他拒绝退让。“他就是藐视权威，”她回忆说，“他会说：‘不，我不赞同。那样不好。奥巴马不会喜欢那样。’ ”
Obama relies on Rhodes for “an unvarnished take,” in part, she says, because “Ben just has no poker face,” and so it’s easy to see when he is feeling uncomfortable. “The president will be like, ‘Ben, something on your mind?’ And then Ben will have this incredibly precise lay-down of why the previous half-hour has been an utter waste of time, because there’s a structural flaw to the entire direction of the conversation.”
她说，奥巴马依赖罗兹“不加掩饰的反应”，部分原因是，“本永远不会毫无表情”，所以你很容易看出他何时感到不爽。“总统会问，‘本，你有什么想法吗？’然后，本会以不可思议的精准阐述为什么之前的半小时完全是浪费时间，因为之前谈话的大方向存在结构性缺陷。”
The literary character that Rhodes most closely resembles, Power volunteers, is Holden Caulfield. “He hates the idea of being phony, and he’s impetuous, and he has very strong views.”
鲍尔主动表示，罗兹最像的文学人物是霍尔顿·考尔菲德。“他讨厌虚伪，很冲动，有非常强烈的主张。”
In Afghanistan the Taliban dynamites enormous statues of Buddha, the ancient material imploding and crumbling to the ground, small specks of men can be seen watching in the foreground. This is somewhere else. Far away.
在阿富汗，塔利班炸毁巨大的佛像。古老的佛像爆炸后，碎片散落到地面上。你能看见男人这里一堆那里一堆站在前面的空地上观看。这是世界的另一个角落。一个遥远的角落。