The parents of Kayla Mueller, the American aid worker abducted by the Islamic State, said Tuesday that they now had proof from the militant group that she was dead, four days after it claimed she had been killed in a Jordanian airstrike.
被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)绑架的美国援助工作者凯拉·米勒(Kayla Mueller)的父母周二表示，他们现在获得了该激进组织提供的证据，表明米勒已经死亡。四天之前，该组织宣称米勒在约旦开展的空袭中遇难。
The parents, who had publicly maintained hope that she was still alive despite the claim by her abductors, did not specify the proof furnished to them, saying only that American intelligence officials had confirmed the proof's authenticity. The White House also announced that it had confirmed Ms. Mueller was dead.
在绑匪宣称米勒已经死亡后，她的父母还曾公开表示，希望她还活着。他们没有详细说明他们获得的证据，只是说美国情报官员已经确认了证据的真实性。白宫也宣布，确信米勒已经死亡。
But two people who had been briefed on the proof said it consisted of at least three photographs, all headshots. These people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the matter is so sensitive, said two photographs showed Ms. Mueller in a black Muslim head covering, but that contusions to her face were visible. The third photo, they said, showed Ms. Mueller wrapped in a white burial shroud.
但两名知情人士表示，证据包括至少三张照片，全部都是头部特写。由于事件的敏感性，这两名知情人士要求匿名。他们透露，有两张照片显示，米勒戴着黑色的穆斯林头巾，脸上的瘀伤非常明显。他们表示，第三张照片显示，米勒被裹在白色的裹尸布里。
It was unclear whether the injuries seen in the photographs were consistent with the Islamic State's assertion that Ms. Mueller, 26, died last Friday when Jordanian bombs flattened a structure in northern Syria where it said she had been held. Jordanian and American officials have challenged that assertion and have blamed the Islamic State for her death.
目前尚不清楚，照片显示的伤情，是否与伊斯兰国的说法一致。伊斯兰国称，26岁的米勒于上周五丧生，当时约旦投掷的炸弹将叙利亚北部一栋建筑夷为平地，而米勒就被关押在那栋建筑里。约旦及美国官员质疑这种说法，并将米勒的死归咎于伊斯兰国。
“We are heartbroken to share that we’ve received confirmation that Kayla Jean Mueller has lost her life,” the parents, Carl and Marsha Mueller, wrote from their home in Prescott, Ariz. “We are so proud of the person Kayla was and the work that she did while she was here with us. She lived with purpose.”
“我们非常悲痛地告诉大家，我们收到了确认凯拉·珍·米勒(Kayla Jean Mueller)死亡的信息，”米勒的父母卡尔·米勒和玛莎·米勒(Carl and Marsha Mueller)在位于亚利桑那州普雷斯科特的家中写道。“我们为凯拉及她的工作感到骄傲。她度过了有意义的一生。”
A family representative said the Muellers had received a message from their daughter’s captors over the weekend, containing “additional information which the intelligence community authenticated and deemed credible” as proof that she was dead. The representative, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, declined to give more details.
米勒家人的一名代表透露，米勒夫妇上周末收到了绑匪发来的消息，其中包含“情报机构已经证实可信的其他信息”，表明米勒已经死亡。这名要求匿名的家庭代表拒绝提供更多细节。
“Everyone, if you are receiving this letter it means I am still detained but my cellmates … have been released,” she wrote in the letter, which is not dated. “Please know that I am in a safe location, completely unharmed + healthy (put on weight in fact); I have been treated w/utmost respect + kindness.”
“大家好，如果你收到了这封信，就意味着我仍被关押，但我的狱友已被释放，”她在一封未注明日期的信中写道。“我想让大家知道，我在一个安全的地方，毫发未伤+非常健康（实际上体重增加了）；我还受到了极大的尊重和善待。”
The details of her captivity remain blurry. European and Syrian hostages who have been released by the Islamic State said they had been held in cells adjoining hers in a former potato chip factory north of Aleppo, as well as in at least two locations in Raqqa, the capital of the group’s self-declared caliphate. Men and women were held in separate cells in both locations, they said, but in at least one compound they were able to communicate with Ms. Mueller through the wall.
米勒被囚禁的细节仍不清楚。已被伊斯兰国释放的欧洲和叙利亚人质表示，他们曾被关押在阿勒颇北部，一家曾经生产薯片的旧工厂改成的牢房里，紧挨着米勒的牢房；他们还曾被关押在位于拉卡的至少两处地点。拉卡是该组织自行宣告成立的哈里发国的首都。他们表示，在那两个地点，男性和女性被分开关押，但至少在一个地方，他们可以通过墙壁与米勒交流。
In Raqqa, she briefly had the company of three female employees of Doctors Without Borders. They were subsequently released. At the height of the hostage crisis in early 2014, she was one of at least 23 Western hostages, most of them Europeans, who were held by the Islamic State. Ms. Mueller and the three medical charity workers were the only women among them.
在拉卡时，她曾短暂地与无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)的三名女性工作者关在一起，这三人随后获释。2014年初，在人质危机最严重时，至少有23名西方人质被伊斯兰国绑架，其中大多是欧洲人，她就是其中之一。米勒和那三名从事慈善工作的医务人员，是其中仅有的几名女性。
“The women were, in general, treated well,” said a former European hostage, and were not overtly abused the way male hostages were.
一名曾被挟持的欧洲人说，“总体而言，这些女性受到了比较友善的对待，”她们没有像男性人质那样遭到明显的虐待。
At a White House news conference, Josh Earnest, the Obama administration’s spokesman, said the information received by the Mueller family, as analyzed by intelligence officials, did not provide any insight into how she had died. Mr. Earnest also said, “I do not believe they were able to conclude when she died.”
奥巴马政府的发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在白宫的新闻发布会上说，经过情报人员分析，米勒家人收到的信息中，并没有任何线索能表明她是如何死亡的。欧内斯特还表示，“我认为他们无法断定她死亡的时间。”
However, Mr. Earnest disputed the Islamic State’s assertion that Ms. Mueller was killed in an airstrike last Friday conducted by Jordanian warplanes, which are participants in the American-led campaign to bomb areas in Syria and Iraq held by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
然而伊斯兰国宣称，米勒是上周五在约旦战机的一次空袭中丧生的，不过欧内斯特并不同意这个观点。约旦战机参与了美国领导的，针对伊斯兰国在叙利亚和伊拉克占据区域的轰炸行动。
There was no evidence, Mr. Earnest said, “of civilians in the target area before the coalition strike.” And in any case, he said, the Islamic State militants who were holding Ms. Mueller “were responsible for her safety and well-being.”
欧内斯特说，没有证据“表明在联合空袭开始前，目标地区存在平民”。他说，无论实际情况是怎样的，挟持米勒的伊斯兰国武装分子“都应该负责她的安全和健康”。
“Therefore,” Mr. Earnest said, “they are responsible for her death.”
“因此，”欧内斯特说，“他们应该对她的死亡负责。”
Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, also blamed the Islamic State for Ms. Mueller’s death, but offered no details on how or when she died.
五角大楼新闻秘书约翰·F·柯比海军少将(Rear Adm. John F. Kirby)同样认为，伊斯兰国应该对米勒的死负责，但没有详细讲述她死亡的具体经过和时间。
“ISIL is responsible for that death,” Admiral Kirby told reporters at the Pentagon. “But we're not in a position to confirm the circumstances specifically, either to timing or to cause of death.”
“ISIL应该对她的死负责，”柯比在五角大楼对记者表示。“但是我们还不能准确地确信相关情况，不论是时间还是死因。”