WASHINGTON — The White House, confronted by an unexpected crisis on a battlefield it thought it had left behind, scrambled Thursday to reassure Iraq that it would help its beleaguered army fend off militants who have overrun much of the country and now threaten Baghdad.
华盛顿——白宫本以为已经离开了那片战场，但现在却遭遇了一场突如其来的危机。周四，白宫慌忙安抚伊拉克，称美国将会帮助该国陷于困境的军队抵御武装分子。武装分子已经占领伊拉克大部分地区，并对巴格达构成了威胁。
Recognizing what one official described as an “urgent emergency situation,” President Obama and his aides moved on multiple fronts. A senior official said the president was actively considering American airstrikes against the militant groups. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. telephoned Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to express American support. And Pentagon officials briefed lawmakers about what one senator later described as a “grave situation.”
奥巴马总统及其助手承认，目前是一名官员所说的“紧迫的紧急情况”，并表示已经从多个方面开展行动。一名高级官员表示，奥巴马正在积极考虑对武装组织发动空袭。副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)致电伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)，表达了美国的支持态度。五角大楼官员向国会议员进行了汇报，一名参议员事后形容“形势很严峻”。
In his only public comments on Iraq, Mr. Obama said his national security staff was meeting around the clock, but the frenzy of activity has yet to produce a tangible American response — attesting to how swiftly this crisis has erupted and how it has left a stunned White House groping for a response.
奥巴马在针对伊拉克局势发表的仅有的一次评论中表示，他的国家安全团队正夜以继日地开会，但这些疯狂行动还没有促使美国做出实质回应，显示出这场危机爆发速度之快，令白宫手足无措，慌忙寻找对策。
The chaotic situation in Iraq showed no sign of letup on Thursday as emboldened Sunni militants who seized two important Iraqi cities this week moved closed to Baghdad while Kurdish forces poured into the strategic northern city of Kirkuk after it was evacuated by government forces.
周四，伊拉克的混乱局势没有缓和的迹象，信心大增的逊尼派武装分子逼近巴格达，本周他们已经占领了伊拉克的两座重要城市。与此同时，政府军撤出北部的战略重镇基尔库克后，库尔德军队进驻该城。
Airstrikes were only one of several options being weighed by the president, according to the senior official, who cautioned that the president had made no decision on military action. The airstrikes, the official said, could be delivered either by unmanned drones or warplanes.
上述高级官员透露，发动空袭只是奥巴马正在考虑的多个选择之一。该官员警告称，总统还没做出采取军事行动的决定。该官员表示，可以通过无人机或战斗机发动空袭。
“I don’t rule out anything,” Mr. Obama said, speaking in the Oval Office after meeting with Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia, “because we do have a stake in making sure that these jihadists are not getting a permanent foothold in either Iraq or Syria, for that matter.” He said he was watching the fast-moving events with “a lot of concern.”
“我不排除任何可能，”奥巴马在会见澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)后在白宫椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)说。“因为我们确实要确保圣战分子无法在伊拉克或叙利亚得到永久性的立足点，这与我们息息相关。”奥巴马表示，他正在关注迅速发展的事态，对此“非常关切”。
For Mr. Obama, ordering airstrikes would be a symbolically momentous step, returning the United States to a combat role in Iraq two and a half years after he pulled out the last American soldier, ending the nation’s involvement in a war that left more than 4,400 Americans dead.
对于奥巴马来说，下令发动空袭会是一个具有象征意义的重要举措，使美国在撤离最后一名士兵，从伊拉克战争中抽身两年半之后，重新回归伊拉克战场。伊拉克战争致使超过4400名美国人丧生。
The possibility of coming to Iraq’s rescue raises a host of thorny questions for Mr. Obama, who has steadfastly resisted being drawn into sectarian strife in Iraq or its neighbor, Syria. Republican lawmakers accused him of being caught flat-footed by the crisis and of hastening this outcome by not leaving an adequate American force behind after 2011.
美国援助伊拉克的可能性，给奥巴马带来了很多棘手的问题。奥巴马一直坚决反对让美国牵扯进伊拉克或其邻国叙利亚的宗派斗争之中。共和党议员指责奥巴马面对这场危机时手足无措，而且在2011年之后，没有留下足够多的美国兵力，加速了这种结局的出现。
Reports that Iran has sent its paramilitary Quds Force to help the struggling Iraqi Army battle the militant group, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, raised the awkward possibility that the United States could find itself allied with Iran in shoring up an unpopular Shiite government in Baghdad. The White House said it was aware of the reports, but did not confirm them.
有报道称，伊朗已经派遣其准军事部队圣城军(Quds Force)帮助苦苦挣扎的伊拉克军队对抗武装组织“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”(Islamic State of Iraq and Syria)，这提高了美国陷入一种尴尬处境的可能性——美国可能会发现，自己在与伊朗联手支持不受欢迎的什叶派巴格达政府。白宫表示，已经了解相关报道，但并未予以证实。
Mr. Obama insisted he had been monitoring the threat from Sunni militant groups for several months. The United States, he said, had supplied Iraq with military equipment and intelligence.
奥巴马坚称，自己几个月来一直在持续观察来自逊尼派武装组织的威胁。他表示，美国向伊拉克提供了军事装备和情报。
Until now, though, the White House has rebuffed several requests from Mr. Maliki for the United States to conduct airstrikes against the staging areas of the militant groups, north and west of Baghdad, where extremists have flowed across the border from Syria.
然而直到现在，虽然马利基曾多次请求美国对武装组织在巴格达以北和以西地区的集结地实施空中打击，但是都被白宫断然拒绝。来自叙利亚的极端分子跨越边境汇聚到了那里。
In the past two days, Mr. Obama acknowledged, it was clear that the United States needed to go further. “Iraq’s going to need more help,” he said. “It’s going to need more help from us, and it’s going to need more help from the international community.”
过去两天，奥巴马承认美国显然需要采取进一步举措。“伊拉克需要更多帮助，”他说。“它需要我们提供更多帮助，也需要国际社会提供更多帮助。”
“In our consultations with the Iraqis,” he said, “there will be some short-term, immediate things that need to be done militarily. But this should be also a wake-up call for the Iraqi government.”
“经过与伊拉克方面的协商，”他说，“我们需要立即在军事方面采取一些短期的行动。但这也应该对伊拉克政府起到警醒作用。”
The president said the crisis confirmed his decision — articulated in a speech at the United States Military Academy — to reorient American counterterrorism strategy from fighting Al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan to a more diffuse set of terrorist groups, some linked with Al Qaeda, that stretch from the Middle East to North Africa.
奥巴马决定将美国反恐策略的重心，从打击阿富汗和巴基斯坦的基地组织(Al Qaeda)，转移到一些活动范围更广的恐怖组织上来，它们有些与基地组织相关，活动范围从中东一直延伸到北非。奥巴马在西点军校(United States Military Academy)发表的演讲中说，目前的危机印证了他的上述决定是正确的。
On Capitol Hill, however, the images of Baghdad under threat from Islamic militants fanned a political firestorm. Speaker John A. Boehner warned that the progress in Iraq was “clearly in jeopardy,” and said Mr. Obama had been caught “taking a nap.”
然而，巴格达受到伊斯兰派武装分子威胁的情景，在国会掀起了一场政治上的轩然大波。众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)警告称，伊拉克的事态发展“明显处于危险之中”，还说事态让“打盹的”奥巴马猝不及防。
Democrats said the strife was the result of former President George W. Bush’s misguided invasion of Iraq in 2003. “One act of violence provokes another act of violence,” said the Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader. “And here we are.”
民主党表示，这场战争是前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的错误举动造成的结果，他不应该在2003年入侵伊拉克。“一场暴行会引发另一场暴行，”众议院少数党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)说。“所以我们到了今天的地步。”
Senators on the Armed Services Committee emerging from a two-hour, classified briefing on Iraq appeared stunned by what they heard from a senior Pentagon official, two senior Defense Intelligence Agency analysts and the three-star general in charge of security cooperation at the American Embassy in Baghdad.
参议院军事委员会(Armed Services Committee)成员在听取完关于伊拉克局势的两个小时的机密汇报后，似乎对国防部一名高级官员、国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)两名高级分析师，以及在美国驻巴格达大使馆负责安全合作的中将所说的话感到震惊。
“Needless to say, it’s a grave situation,” said Senator Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat.
“不用说，形势很严峻，”佛罗里达州民主党参议员比尔·尼尔森(Bill Nelson)说。
A State Department spokeswoman said American contractors working in Baghdad on foreign military sales had been evacuated by their companies. But diplomats and staff members at the embassy in Baghdad and consulates elsewhere in Iraq had not been moved, according to the spokeswoman, Jen Psaki.
国务院一名发言人表示，在巴格达从事对外军售的美国承包商雇员，已经被他们所属的公司撤回。但是，发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)说，驻巴格达大使馆和伊拉克其他地方领事馆的工作人员还留在那里。
While experts said leaving behind a residual force of several thousand American troops would have helped the Iraqi Army tactically, some doubt it would have prevented the sectarian forces that are threatening to tear the country into Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish blocs.
虽然专家表示，把几千名美国士兵留在伊拉克在战术上对伊拉克军队有帮助，但一些人怀疑那样做能否遏制纷争的宗派势力。这些势力可能会使伊拉克分裂为逊尼派、什叶派和库尔德人的领地。
“In the long run, I’m not sure it would have made a difference with the forces pushing for the disintegration of Iraq,” said Gen. Amos Yadlin, a retired head of Israeli military intelligence who is now the executive director of Israel’s Institute of National Security Studies.
“长期来看，在这些势力极力分化伊拉克的时候，我不确定那样做能起到什么作用，”曾任以色列军方情报部门负责人的阿莫斯·亚德林(Amos Yadlin)说。他现在是以色列国家安全研究所(Institute for National Security Studies)所长。
Andrew J. Tabler, an expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said that American airstrikes would “help them deal with the symptoms of the disease, but the disease is rooted in Syria.”
华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)的叙利亚问题专家安德鲁·J·泰布勒(Andrew J. Tabler)说，美国的空中打击能够“帮他们处理疾病的症状，但是病根在叙利亚。”