WASHINGTON — President Trump was informed more than two weeks ago that his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, had not told the truth about his interactions with Russia’s ambassador, and the president eventually asked for Mr. Flynn’s resignation after concluding he could not be trusted, a White House official said on Tuesday.
华盛顿——一位白宫官员周二表示，特朗普总统在两周多前就得知他的国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)没有讲述他与俄罗斯驻美大使交流的实情，在得出弗林无法被信任的结论后，总统最终要求他辞职。
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said the president’s team had been “reviewing and evaluating this issue with respect to General Flynn on a daily basis for a few weeks trying to ascertain the truth.” While Mr. Trump and his advisers ultimately concluded that there was no violation of law, the president decided Mr. Flynn could no longer serve in his position.
白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)表示，总统的团队“每天评估有关弗林中将的问题已经有数周时间，竭力查明真相”。尽管特朗普及其顾问最终得出结论，认为其中没有违法行为，但总统还是决定不再让弗林担任该职位。
“The evolving and eroding level of trust as a result of this situation and a series of other questionable instances is what led the president to ask for General Flynn’s resignation,” Mr. Spicer said at his daily briefing. He did not elaborate on the “other questionable instances.”
“这种情况和一系列其他可疑问题导致的信任度变化降低，这是总统要求弗林中将辞职的原因，”斯派塞在发布每日简报时说。他没有详细说明“其他可疑问题”指什么。
As leaders of both parties indicated that Congress would investigate, Mr. Spicer’s comments were the first public confirmation by the White House that Mr. Trump was aware of the allegations against Mr. Flynn before they were reported last week. They also contradicted the previous description of the national security adviser’s abrupt departure on Monday night, attributing the decision to Mr. Trump rather than Mr. Flynn.
在两党领导人表示国会将进行调查时，斯派塞的言论意味着白宫第一次公开证实总统在上周弗林被指控的消息出来之前便得知了此事。这些言论传递出的信息也与此前有关这位国家安全顾问在周一晚突然辞职的描述相反，即将该决定归于特朗普，而非弗林本人。
The issue traced back to a telephone call between Mr. Flynn, then Mr. Trump’s designated national security adviser, and Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the United States, in December. Mr. Flynn later told Mike Pence, then the vice president-elect, and others on the incoming White House team that the conversation did not include any discussion of sanctions being imposed on Russia by the departing president, Barack Obama, over interference in American elections.
这个问题要追溯至被特朗普提名为国家安全顾问的弗林和俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)在去年12月进行的一次通话。弗林后来告诉当时的候任副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)及其他即将进入白宫团队的人，这次谈话没有涉及即将离任的总统巴拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)就俄国干涉美国大选问题对其实施制裁的问题。
Mr. Pence and Mr. Spicer passed along this account to the public. But the telephone conversation was intercepted by the American intelligence apparatus that typically monitors Russian diplomats, and a transcript reviewed by the Justice Department showed that sanctions did, in fact, come up.
彭斯和斯派塞将这种说法传达给了公众。但这次通话被一直监视俄罗斯外交官美国情报机构拦截，一份经过司法部审核的文字版显示，谈话中提到了制裁问题。
In his resignation letter, Mr. Flynn did not acknowledge intentionally lying but said, “I inadvertently briefed the vice president-elect and others with incomplete information about my phone calls with the Russian ambassador.”
在辞职信中，弗林不承认自己是有意撒谎，而是表示，“在向副总统和其他人通报与俄罗斯大使的通话时，我无意间遗漏了一些信息。”
But in an interview on Monday just hours earlier with The Daily Caller, a conservative news site, Mr. Flynn had defiantly insisted that he “crossed no lines” and expressed outrage at leaks about his call. He said he had the backing of Mr. Trump, who “expressed confidence” in him and told him to “go out and talk more” to defend himself.
但就在周一辞职几小时前接受保守派新闻网站“每日通话”(The Daily Caller)采访时，弗林还挑衅地坚称自己“没有越界”，并对他的通话信息遭泄露表示愤慨。他说他得到了特朗普的支持，称后者表示对他“有信心”，并让他“出去进一步”为自己辩护。
By Mr. Spicer’s account, Sally Q. Yates, an Obama administration holdover serving as the acting attorney general, contacted Donald F. McGahn II, the new White House counsel, on Jan. 26 to give him “a heads up” about the discrepancy. Other officials have said that Ms. Yates warned the White House that Mr. Flynn had exposed himself to potential blackmail by Russia, since Moscow knew what had been said during the telephone call — differing from his public account.
依据斯派塞的描述，从奥巴马政府留任、当时担任代理司法部长的莎莉·Q·耶茨(Sally Q. Yates)在1月26日联系了白宫律师唐纳德·F·麦克加恩二世(Donald F. McGahn II)，“提醒”他注意这种差异。其他官员表示，耶茨对白宫发出警告，称既然莫斯科知道通话期间谈论了什么——与弗林的公开说法不同——他便将自己暴露于可能遭到俄罗斯敲诈的境地。
Mr. Trump was told “immediately,” Mr. Spicer said, and directed Mr. McGahn to look into the matter. After an “extensive review” that lasted several days, Mr. McGahn concluded that nothing in the conversation violated federal law, Mr. Spicer said.
斯派塞表示，特朗普“立刻”得知了消息，随即指示麦克加恩查明此事。他还提到，经过几天的“深入评估”，麦克加恩得出结论，认为这次谈话中没有什么内容违反联邦法律。
But the president was then left to determine whether he could still trust Mr. Flynn, a retired Army lieutenant general and former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Mr. Spicer said Mr. Flynn stuck to his original account, making matters worse. “In a series of questioning that was rather exhaustive over a long period of time, he continued to maintain that had not occurred,” Mr. Spicer said.
但接着总统便需要决定他是否还能信任退休陆军中将、前国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)局长弗林。斯派塞表示，弗林坚持自己最初的说法，这让情况变得更糟。“在持续很长时间的一系列十分详尽的质疑中，他持续坚称情况不是那样，”斯派塞说。
“We got to a point not based on a legal issue, but based on a trust issue, with the level of trust between the president and General Flynn had eroded to the point where he felt he had to make a change,” Mr. Spicer said. “The president was very concerned that General Flynn had misled the vice president and others.”
“我们到了一个基于信任问题而非法律问题做决定的位置上，因为总统和弗林中将之间的信任已经减少到他觉得必须做出改变的地步，”斯派塞说。“总统非常担心弗林中将误导了副总统和其他人。”
Asked if Mr. Trump had instructed Mr. Flynn to talk about sanctions with Mr. Kislyak, Mr. Spicer said, “No, absolutely not.” Asked if Mr. Trump knew that the issue had come up before the Justice Department told the White House, Mr. Spicer said, “No, he was not aware.”
在被问到是否是特朗普指示弗林与基斯利亚克谈论制裁问题时，斯派塞表示，“不，绝对不是。”在又被问到特朗普是否是在司法部告知白宫之前就知道出现了问题时，斯派塞则表示，“不，他不知情。”
Mr. Spicer emphasized that there was “nothing wrong” with Mr. Flynn talking with representatives of other countries during the transition to prepare for the new president taking office, and in fact Mr. Trump wanted him to.
斯派塞强调，弗林在为新总统就职做准备的过渡期间与其他国家的代表交谈“没什么错”，实际上特朗普希望他这么做。
“The Intelligence Committee is already looking at Russian involvement in our election and they have broad jurisdiction over the intel community writ large and they can look at whatever they choose to,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate majority leader, approving a broadening of the existing probe.
“情报委员会已经在调查俄罗斯介入我们大选的问题，他们对情报领域显然有广泛的管辖权，可以浏览任何想看的东西，”参议院多数党领袖、肯塔基参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)说，他赞成扩大现阶段调查的范围。
Democrats in Congress rushed to demand an investigation, arguing that Mr. Flynn’s departure did not resolve the matter. “Right now, there are way more questions than answers on President Trump’s relationship with Russia,” said Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut.
国会中的民主党人急着要求进行调查，称弗林离职不意味着问题就得到了解决。“目前，有关特朗普总统与俄罗斯的关系，我们面临的问题比答案要多得多，”康涅狄格州民主党参议员克里斯托弗·S·墨菲(Christopher S. Murphy)说。
Representative Adam Smith of Washington, the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, said the episode raised “grave questions about who in the White House knew about Flynn’s vulnerability to blackmail and exploitation by the Russian government, and when they knew about it.”
在参议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)里地位较高的民主党人、华盛顿州众议员亚当·史密斯(Adam Smith)表示，这起事件提出了“一些严重的问题，即白宫内有谁知道弗林有这样的把柄，容易遭到俄罗斯政府敲诈和利用，以及是何时知道的。”
“If anyone in the White House knew about Flynn’s vulnerability and chose not to act, they exercised inexcusably poor judgment that put the security of our country at enormous risk,” he added.
“如果白宫里有任何人知道弗林的这个问题却选择不采取任何行动，他们便做出了糟到不可饶恕的判断，而这会将我们国家的安全置于巨大的风险中，”他接着讲道。
Republicans were less eager to talk about the issue. Representative Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, one of the few to comment publicly, said the cover-up was worse than the crime. “It was a bad decision to call Russia and talk about this in the middle of, you know, the past administration determining what sanctions are going to look like,” he said on Fox News. “But what happened, the big problem is when he lied to the vice president.”
共和党人相对不那么热心谈论这个议题。伊利诺伊州共和党众议员亚当·金青格(Adam Kinzinger)是为数不多的就此发表公开评论的共和党人，他表示掩饰犯罪比犯罪本身更糟。“在上届政府正在决定进行什么样制裁的过程中给俄罗斯打电话谈论这个问题，本身就是个糟糕的决定，”他在接受福克斯频道采访时说。“但不管发生了什么，最大的问题在于他对副总统撒了谎。”