Mayor Bill de Blasio on Tuesday is set to declare housing as the focal point of his second year in office, unveiling a vision for an even denser yet more affordable New York City that will transform neighborhoods from East Harlem in Manhattan to Staten Island’s North Shore.
纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)于周二（2月3日）宣布，住房问题将是他上任第二年关注的焦点，他的长远规划是，要让纽约市本已高度密集的住宅变得更密集，但同时也更平价，并改造从曼哈顿东哈莱姆区(East Harlem)到斯塔顿岛(Staten Island)北岸(North Shore)的各个社区。
The mayor’s mission: to convince New Yorkers that his plan to build more, and build higher, can improve the quality of life for residents across all income levels, even as many have come to associate construction cranes and high-rise buildings with the out-of-reach opulence of the upper class.
市长的使命是：说服纽约人，使他们相信，按照他的计划修建更多、更高的住房，有助于为各收入阶层的居民改善生活质量。尽管在很多人眼里，施工起重机和高层建筑象征着他们无法企及的上层阶级财富。
In his second State of the City address, Mr. de Blasio plans to invoke the city’s post-World War II building boom, when large housing complexes like Stuyvesant Town offered shelter and security to middle- and working-class New Yorkers.
在他第二年的市情咨文中，白思豪打算在这座城市里掀起二战后的新一轮建设热潮，使得诸如斯图文森镇(Stuyvesant Town)这类大型住宅区，为中产阶级和工薪阶层的纽约人提供安全、有保障的住所。
Officials said the mayor would announce new plans to rezone two more neighborhoods, East Harlem and Stapleton, Staten Island, to allow for taller and larger residential buildings. Mr. de Blasio intends to make affordable apartments a requirement, not an option, in those developments — along with four others across the city — and he will offer new protections for current tenants who fear being forced out by the changes.
官员们宣称，市长将宣布新计划，来改划(rezone)两处社区——东哈莱姆和斯塔顿岛的斯特普尔顿(Stapleton)，以修建更高、更大的住宅楼。在这些开发项目、以及全市范围内其他四处开发项目中，白思豪打算将修建平价住宅作为一种对开发商的要求，而非选择。此外，对于害怕因政策变化而被逼搬迁的现有租户，他也将提供新的保护措施。
The mayor also plans to call for the construction of 160,000 new market-rate apartments over the next decade, hoping that a larger supply of housing will help reduce rents more broadly.
市长还打算呼吁开发商在未来十年内修建16万套新的市价公寓，希望住房供应量的提升有助于更为广泛地降低租金。
To succeed, Mr. de Blasio — elected in part on a wave of anger over glittery developments approved by the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg — must confront knotty, emotionally charged questions about gentrification and the changing cityscape. Because affordable housing is built hand in hand with market-rate units, City Hall has already faced resistance in neighborhoods wary of change.
白思豪当初之所以当选，有部分原因是前市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的政府批准了一些华而不实的开发项目，引起市民的愤慨。如今，为取得成功，白思豪必须面对两个导致群情激奋的棘手难题——士绅化(gentrification)和城市景观的改变。由于平价的保障房与市价房是建在一起的，市政府也已面临了一些抵触变化的社区带来的阻力。
But the mayor, in the speech, plans to say that his administration is carving out a careful middle ground.
但是市长有意在此次讲话中声明，他的执政班子正在认真谨慎地规划中间地带。
“We’re serious about having neighborhoods grow, but we’re also really serious about making sure communities that are there have the right to stay there,” Alicia Glen, the city’s deputy mayor for housing and economic development, said in an interview.
“我们非常认真地想要推进社区的扩张，但我们同时也非常认真地想要确保现有社区维持原状的权利。”负责住房和经济发展的副市长艾丽西亚·格伦(Alicia Glen)在接受采访时说。
“Density doesn’t have to be a bad word,” Ms. Glen added. “We want to explain the benefits of density, and why density is not, per se, a scary thing.”
“住房密集并不一定是个坏词，”格伦补充道，“我们想解释住房密集的好处，告诉大家为什么住房密集本身并不是件可怕的事。”
To bolster that effort, the de Blasio administration will invest $36 million in legal services for tenants in newly rezoned neighborhoods. The idea, mayoral aides say, is to help residents fight harassment by landlords, who might be eager to eject tenants to take advantage of the higher rents that often accompany a rezoning.
为支持这一努力，白思豪政府将投资3600万美元（约合人民币22484元），为新改划社区的租户提供法律服务。市长助理表示，这样做的用意是为帮助居民免受房东的骚扰。由于改划往往会造成租金的抬升，房东可能会急于赶走租户，以便从改划中获利。
The program, which would rely on outside groups like the Legal Aid Society, would virtually triple the amount spent annually by the city on legal services for tenants. And it would be accompanied by outreach efforts so that tenants would be better prepared to handle illegal behavior by landlords.
该法律服务项目将依赖于法律援助协会(Legal Aid Society)等政府外团体的力量，这将使市政府每年花在租户法律服务上的资金，几乎增加到了之前的三倍。这将伴随着推广工作，使租户做好更充分的准备来应对房东的非法行为。
“It’s what needs to be done to make sure the playing field is level,” said Jonathan Lippman, chief judge of the New York Court of Appeals, who has long advocated greater legal services for the poor. Judge Lippman said the expanded funding would cover the costs of legal representation for nearly 14,000 cases in housing court.
“这是为了确保公平而必须采取的措施。”纽约上诉法院(New York Court of Appeals)的首席法官乔纳森·李普曼(Jonathan Lippman)说，他一向主张为穷人提供更多法律服务。李普曼还说，资金投入扩大的部分，将用于支付住房法庭中近14000例案件的法律代理（或称民事法律援助——译注）费用。
Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, agreed that the program could be helpful, even if tenants were the ones found to be acting illegally.
纽约房地产委员会(Real Estate Board of New York)的会长史蒂芬·斯皮诺拉(Stevem Spinola)也认为，即使最终发现违法的一方是租户，这个法律服务项目也会发挥作用。
“There will be possibilities of some tenants making false claims,” Mr. Spinola said. “The work of these professional attorneys, hopefully, will be to resolve those issues.”
“有些租户会作出虚假声明，这样的可能性是存在的，”斯皮诺拉说，“这些专业律师的工作就是解决这些问题。”
Mr. de Blasio’s remarks, at Baruch College in Manhattan, are expected to focus almost entirely on housing policy, a break from past years, when mayors used the State of the City speech to lay out dozens of discrete policy initiatives.
与往年不同的是，白思豪在曼哈顿巴鲁克学院(Baruch College)的发言，几乎会完全聚焦在住房政策。而在近几年的市情咨文讲话中，市长宣布的都是几个互不相干的政策措施。
Still, critical details of the mayor’s housing plan remain uncertain.
尽管如此，白思豪住房计划的关键细节仍不明朗。
The de Blasio administration has long made clear that it will require developers to include affordable units when building in rezoned areas, a switch from the Bloomberg years when such units were optional. But mayoral aides said the ratio of affordable to market-rate units in those areas has not yet been determined. Housing advocates have argued the city should exceed the current standard that 20 percent of units in a building be affordable.
白思豪政府早已明确表示，市政府将要求在改划区内建房的开发商，把平价单元纳入开发项目，这与上届政府大相径庭。在布隆伯格主政期间，开发项目中是否纳入这类平价单元，可由开发商自行选择。但是市长助理表示，在那些地区，平价单元与市价单元的比例还有待确定。但是支持保障房的人士认为，政府应增加平价房的比例。现定的比例是20%。
Who qualifies for an affordable unit is also up in the air. City planners often set a range of qualifying income levels for each neighborhood being rezoned, but those formulas can be easily adjusted. Mayoral aides said the figures would not be unveiled until later in the year.
至于谁有资格入住平价单元的问题，也是悬而未决。城市规划者往往会给每个改划社区设置一个符合条件的收入水平范围，但那些规则可能很容易调整。市长助理说，具体数字只有到今年晚些时候才会公布。
Ms. Glen, the deputy mayor, said the city was determining those details on a neighborhood-by-neighborhood basis. She said that City Hall was intent on tweaking the housing market in ways that would benefit all residents.
副市长格伦指出，市政府正在逐个社区确定那些细节。她说，市政府已下定决心，要以有利于全体居民的方式来调整住房市场。
“We have to recognize that we will lose something essential about the gestalt of New York if we don’t recognize there are a huge number of regular people who need to know they can live in New York City,” she said.
“现在有很大一批普通人需要知道，他们是可以在纽约安居的。我们必须意识到，如果我们对如此大规模的群体视而不见，就会使纽约的完全形态缺失掉一些重要的东西。”她说。
The addition of 160,000 market-rate units — on top of the 200,000 affordable units that Mr. de Blasio has pledged to build or preserve in the next decade — is an attempt to correct “a serious supply-and-demand imbalance,” Ms. Glen said.
白思豪已承诺在未来十年内修建或保留20万套平价住宅单元；在此基础上，再新建16万套市价单元，以试图解决“供需严重失衡的问题”，格伦说。
Mr. Spinola, the Real Estate Board president, said that goal was “not impossible.”
房地产委员会的会长斯皮诺拉表示，这个目标是“并非不可能实现的。”
“We have a shortage of housing,” he said on Tuesday. “If we don’t build any more, the only thing that will happen is prices will go up.”
“我们正面临住房短缺的问题，”他在周二表示，“如果我们不修建更多住房，那么唯一的结果就是，房价会上涨。”