William Ellwood Heinecke has always followed his instincts.
威廉·埃尔伍德·海内克(William Ellwood Heinecke)一直都凭直觉做事。
He started his first businesses, cleaning offices and selling advertising, as an expatriate high school student in Bangkok. He was a millionaire before he reached voting age.
作为侨民，他在曼谷念高中时就开始创办企业，经营办公室打扫和广告推销。在到达投票年龄以前，他就成了百万富翁。
Defying conventional wisdom at the time about overseas appetites, he introduced pizza to Asians in the early 1980s, the start of an empire of retailers, restaurants and resorts built around classic brands like Pizza Hut, Sizzler, Marriott and Esprit. It encompasses more than 10,000 rooms and 1,400 restaurants across 22 countries. He has moved up the value chain, developing his own successful brands.
20世纪80年代早期，他不顾人们对海外食品的传统看法，将披萨引入亚洲，围绕必胜客(Pizza Hut)、时时乐(Sizzler)、万豪(Marriott)和埃斯普利特(Esprit)等经典品牌，打造起一个包括零售商店、餐厅和度假胜地的帝国，在22个国家共有1万多个客房和1400多家餐厅。后来他向价值链上方移动，发展了自己的成功品牌。
Now Mr. Heinecke, the billionaire chairman of Minor International, has aggressively steered expansion into the Middle East, Africa, Australia and emerging markets across Asia, flying around the region in corporate jets, swooping in on huge deals.
如今，美诺国际集团(Minor International)的亿万富翁董事长海内克积极进军中东、非洲、澳大利亚和亚洲各地的新兴市场，乘坐商用机穿梭于亚太各地，进行大笔交易。
Maintaining the spirit of American entrepreneurship, Mr. Heinecke has kept his mantra the same: find a gap and fill it.
海内克保持着美国企业家的精神，他的信条是：找到市场空白，然后填补它。
“The stakes are bigger perhaps,” he said. “Now we’re dealing with a bigger playing field. It’s a more complex world. But the skills of being an entrepreneur haven’t changed, and probably won’t change.”
“赌注或许更高了，”他说，“现在，我们在对付一个更大的竞争舞台。世界也变得更加复杂。但是，企业家所需的技巧并没有变，很可能永远都不会变。”
Mr. Heinecke has long stood out as an entrepreneur here, and not just because of his unusual upbringing and appearance — he is six feet tall and has worn a beard since he started his first businesses as a teenager.
在曼谷，作为企业家的海内克一直都很显眼，这不仅是因为他不同寻常的成长经历和外貌——他身高6英尺（约合183厘米），自从青少年时代第一次创业开始就一直留着胡须。
Asia is among the world’s biggest source of new billionaires, but most expand or refocus family wealth. Outside of mushrooming markets like technology and real estate, few are self-made successes like Mr. Heinecke.
亚洲是世界上最大的亿万富翁诞生地，但大多数都是在扩张家庭财富，或者调整家庭财富的投资方向。在科技和房地产等快速增值的市场外，很少有像海内克这样白手起家的成功人士。
Fewer still are Western-born. “You can probably put him among a handful of expats in Asia,” says Kevin Whitcraft, another American businessman raised in Thailand, who has franchised one of Mr. Heinecke’s companies in frontier markets like Laos and Cambodia.
出生于西方的人就更少了。“你或许可以把他放在亚洲的一小部分侨民中间，”另一名在泰国长大的美国商人凯文·惠特克拉夫特(Kevin Whitcraft)说。他得到了海内克在老挝和柬埔寨等前沿市场的一家公司的特许经营权。
“What really stands out about Bill is that he could have made it anywhere in the world,” Mr. Whitcraft added. “He’s always been a great salesman. He’s just a born businessman and entrepreneur.”
“比尔（指海内克）真正的过人之处在于，他能够在世界任何地方取得成功，”惠特克拉夫特还说。“他一直都是个出色的销售高手。他是个天生的商人和企业家。”
Mr. Heinecke, 64, grew up in Hong Kong, Japan and Thailand. His father, Roy, was a United States diplomat in Asia. His mother, Constance, worked for for American magazines. The family moved to Bangkok 50 years ago.
今年64岁的海内克成长于香港、日本和泰国。他的父亲罗伊(Roy)是美国驻亚洲的一名外交官。母亲康斯坦丝(Constance)为美国的几家杂志工作。一家人于50年前搬到了曼谷。
He always seemed in a hurry. Starting with go-carts as a boy, he geared up to the racetrack, then rallies on dirt roads through the jungles. He set many Asian records, and survived several near-fatal crashes. He keeps a collection of vintage cars including a 1963 Shelby Cobra worth $3 million, and a Ferrari that once belonged to Clint Eastwood.
他似乎总是在赶时间。他还是个孩子时，就开始驾驶微型竞赛汽车，后来便升级为赛车，还曾参加穿越丛林泥路的竞赛。他创造了很多亚洲纪录，而且数次险些在事故中丧命。他收藏的古董车包括一辆价值300万美元（约合1840万元人民币）的1963年的谢尔比眼镜蛇(Shelby Cobra)；还有一辆曾属于克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)的法拉利(Ferrari)。
He says he believes he was in the right place at the right time, before the Asian boom. Yet he was not only driven, he had an innate sense of direction. As fellow students traveled West to attend college, Mr. Heinecke stayed in Thailand. “I always knew what I wanted to do, and where to do it. I just saw so much opportunity here,” he explained.
他说，他认为自己在亚洲繁荣之前，在正确的时间来到了正确的地方。然而，他不仅有动力，而且还拥有一种与生俱来的方向感。当同学们前往西方上大学的时候，海内克留在了泰国。他解释道，“我一向知道自己想做什么，要在哪里做。我在这里看到了这么多的机会。”
In 1980, he introduced pizza to Asians. Experts predicted that they would never take to Western fare, but he added local ingredients and quickly became Asia’s pizza king. He initially franchised for Pizza Hut, but when the parent company tried to restrict his other restaurant efforts, a battle ensued, and Mr. Heinecke boldly started his own Pizza Company, instantly becoming the regional giant.
1980年，他把披萨介绍给了亚洲人。当时有专家预计，亚洲人绝不会喜欢上西方食物，但是他在披萨中加入了当地的配料，然后很快就成了亚洲的披萨之王。他开始时经营必胜客的加盟店，但是当必胜客试图限制他在开办餐厅方面的其他努力时，双方爆发了纠纷。随后，海内克大胆创立了自己的品奇披萨(Pizza Company)，很快成了地区巨擘。
He spied a related opportunity and moved into dairy production, churning out cheese to top all those pies. He melts 1,000 tons of mozzarella annually, just in his Thailand pizza parlors.
他发现了一个相关的契机，开始进军乳制品生产，量产披萨上的奶酪。仅仅在泰国的披萨店，他每年就要用掉1000吨的马苏里拉奶酪。
Mr. Heinecke expanded into hotels, running properties under the Marriot, Sheraton and Four Seasons banners. His hotels typically feature an array of retail shops and dining, mainly from the Minor portfolio. Call it old-fashioned synergy.
海内克把业务扩展到了酒店，在万豪、喜来登(Sheraton)和四季(Four Seasons)等品牌下经营。他的酒店里通常设有一系列零售店和餐厅，这些主要是美诺的资产。不妨称其为老派的协同效应。
Some point to construction of the Four Seasons Tented Camp in the Golden Triangle, where Thailand borders Laos and Myanmar, as a transformational project in Mr. Heinecke’s career. Jason Friedman worked closely with Mr. Heinecke a decade ago on the small collection of luxury tents in an elephant sanctuary financed by Mr. Heinecke. Many thought it a vanity project — contrasting Mr. Heinecke’s reputation for frugality.
有人认为，在泰国与老挝和缅甸交界的金三角地区(Golden Triangle)修建四季华蓬酒店(Four Seasons Tented Camp)是海内克事业的一个转折性工程。10年前，贾森·弗里德曼(Jason Friedman)曾在海内克资助的一个大象保护区与他密切共事，那里有少量的豪华帐篷。很多人都认为那是个形象工程，与海内克的节俭声誉形成反差。
“Bill is quite well known for being conservative, almost formulaic, by the numbers,” said Mr. Friedman, former manager at the camp, but now the manager of the Siam, an upscale boutique lodge in Bangkok. “The tented camp was really a passion for him. He was involved in all the details, right down to the number of animals in the park.
“比尔一直以在数字上保守甚至刻板而闻名，”前华蓬酒店经理、现在担任曼谷高档精品酒店——暹罗酒店(The Siam)经理的弗里德曼说。“他对华蓬酒店充满激情，他过问所有细节，甚至包括公园里动物的数量。”
“I saw a very different side of Bill than many see, and the project really put him out there not only as an entrepreneur but also an innovator.”
“与许多人不同，我看到了比尔非常不同的一面，那个项目表明他不仅是一位企业家，还是一名创新者。”
The camp became a global sensation, generating more publicity than any previous Four Seasons opening, he said. Minor later started Anantara, which has become one of the fastest-growing Asia-based resort chains. Much of that growth has been in the Middle East, China and the Maldives.
他说，华蓬酒店引起了全球轰动，比以往任何一家四季酒店的开业都更受关注。后来，美诺创办了安纳塔拉豪华度假村(Anantara)，成为增长最快的亚洲连锁度假酒店之一，其业务增长有很大一部分来自中东、中国和马尔代夫。
“Now, we are recognized for our expertise, our own intellectual property,” Mr. Heinecke said. Anantara is like a franchiser. Owners finance the projects and pay Minor management fees. “This allows us to grow the brand much faster.” Revenue for the company’s hotel division was up 80 percent in 2012 over the previous year.
“现在，我们因为自己的运作诀窍和知识产权而得到认可，”海内克说。安纳塔拉就像一个加盟网的盟主。加盟店主为项目提供资金，并向美诺支付管理费。“这样，我们就可以更快地发展品牌。”2012年，公司酒店部门的营收同比增长80%。
Mr. Heinecke has also expanded Minor by canny acquisition. His takeover of Oaks Hotels and Resorts in Australia doubled hospitality operations in 2011. While he had ample success with his own Pizza Company, he bought Australia’s Coffee Club to take prominence in another market many said would never gain traction in Asia.
海内克先生还通过精明的收购扩大美诺集团的规模。他对澳大利亚奥克斯酒店和度假区(Oaks Hotels and Resorts)的收购，使酒店规模在2011年扩大了一倍。他在品奇披萨上取得巨大成功的同时，买下了澳大利亚的咖啡俱乐部(Coffee Club)，进军另一个很多人说永远不会在亚洲蓬勃发展的市场。
Minor is now ideally positioned just as coffee consumption soars across the increasingly affluent region.
美诺现在所处的市场地位十分理想，因为在日益富裕的亚洲各地，咖啡消费正在迅速增长。
Yet there have been missteps, as Mr. Heinecke is the first to recount. “You don’t succeed without stumbling,” he said.
然而，海内克第一个承认，发展道路上也有走错的时候。他说，“不跌倒就不会成功。”
Mr. Heinecke was probably the first to bring fast food to China — too early, as it turned out. He was also a pioneer with hotels in Vietnam, building in the 1980s, before the boom. That first hotel in Vietnam, he conceded, still has not turned a profit. Several other properties in Vietnam are doing well, however. He chalked that up to lessons learned and diligence, something he stresses in every aspect of his operation. Before he signed on the Oaks deal, he said, he visited most of the hotels, staying in many.
海内克或许是第一个把快餐引入中国的人——结果证明太早了。在酒店行业蓬勃发展之前，他还是在越南开办酒店的先驱，当时是20世纪80年代。他承认，越南的第一家酒店仍未盈利。然而，他在越南的其他几家酒店经营良好。他把这归因于吸取教训和勤奋，这是他在商业运作的每个方面都会注重的特质。在签署奥克斯协议之前，他说他曾到访过大部分酒店，并在很多酒店下榻。
Outside forces have also buffeted his operations. Mr. Heinecke was nearly crushed by the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. The 2004 tsunami wiped out an entire hotel. Coups, flooding and SARS have also hit his businesses hard, particularly those heavily dependent on tourism.
外部力量也曾重创他的业务。20世纪90年代末的亚洲金融危机几乎把海内克击垮。2004年的海啸摧毁了一整家酒店。政变、洪水和严重急性呼吸道综合征(SARS)也对他的企业造成了沉重打击，尤其是那些严重依赖旅游业的业务。
Through it all, Mr. Heinecke remains focused on the next deal, and improving efficiency. “He’s constantly on the move, doing business all the time,” said Joe Cummings, a Bangkok author who is writing a book about the Anantara hotels and destinations. “He’s like a shark, very opportunistic. And he really knows every detail about his businesses, right down to the price of a candy bar in the minibar.”
一路走来，海内克先生仍然把注意力放在下一笔交易和提高效率上。“他一直在行动，一直在洽谈生意，”曼谷作家乔·卡明斯(Joe Cummings)说。他正在写一本关于安纳塔拉酒店和旅游景点的书。“他就像一条鲨鱼，非常懂得把握时机。而且他真的非常了解自己的业务，连迷你吧台上糖块的价格都知道。”