Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Thursday that he had no qualms about the harsh words directed at his predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg, at Mr. de Blasio’s inauguration ceremony.
纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)周四表示，对于在他的就职典礼上，一些演讲者向前任市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)发出的严厉批评并没有感到不安。
“I’m very comfortable with all that was done,” the mayor said at a news conference, hours after a top Bloomberg aide suggested that some of those who spoke at the event on Wednesday had unfairly characterized the departing mayor’s tenure.
布隆伯格的一名高级助手表示，周三在就职典礼上，一些演讲者对离任市长的任期作出的评价并不公平。几小时后，新任市长就在新闻发布会上说，“我觉得那些发言没什么问题。”
Several speakers, although not Mr. de Blasio himself, stridently criticized Mr. Bloomberg’s policies, referring derisively to a perceived emphasis by his administration on luxury developments and sports arenas over the interests of working-class and poor New Yorkers.
一些演讲者严厉批评了布隆伯格的政策，他们以讽刺的口吻谈论道，公众感觉布隆伯格政府关注的是奢侈的开发项目和体育场馆，而不重视纽约工薪阶层和贫困人口的利益。不过白思豪本人并未发表类似言论。
Mr. Bloomberg sat stoically throughout the event, clearly visible in the front row onstage, his arms crossed and lips pursed.
在典礼现场，布隆伯格坐在台上前排的显眼位置，双臂交叉，表情冷峻，双唇紧绷。
Asked on Thursday by a reporter about “anti-Bloomberg” remarks at his inauguration ceremony, Mr. de Blasio said he disagreed with the basic premise of the question.
周四，一名记者向白思豪问起他的就职典礼上发表的“反布隆伯格”言论时，白思豪说，他不认同这个问题的前提。
“I made clear my real respect for Mayor Bloomberg,” Mr. de Blasio said at Police Headquarters. “It’s not a secret that I’ve had some disagreements with him on policy, but I honored with a whole heart what he did to this city.”
“我明确地表示，我确实尊敬布隆伯格市长，”白思豪在纽约警察局总部说。“我和他在政策上有一些分歧，这也不是秘密，但我真心敬重他对这个城市所做的事。”
The mayor noted that former President Bill Clinton, who administered the oath of office, also spoke warmly of Mr. Bloomberg.
白思豪还提到，监督他宣誓就职的前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)也对布隆伯格给予了热情的评价。
Mr. de Blasio did not mention the speakers who did speak critically — including the singer Harry Belafonte and Public Advocate Letitia James. Instead, he said broadly that “everybody who spoke at the inauguration spoke from the heart, talked about their own understanding of our city, and what we need to do to move our city forward.”
白思豪并没有提及那些确实提出批评的发言者，包括歌手哈里·贝拉方特(Harry Belafonte)和公益维护专员詹乐霞(Letitia James)。他只是泛泛地说，“在就职典礼上，每个人的发言都发自内心，他们谈了自己对我们这座城市的理解，也谈了我们需要做些什么才能推动这座城市前进。”
In his inaugural address, Mr. de Blasio praised Mr. Bloomberg, specifically citing his work on environmental and health issues. And he ad-libbed a line that was missing from his prepared remarks, urging the crowd, “Please, let’s acknowledge the incredible commitment of our mayor.”
白思豪在自己的就职演说中对布隆伯格大加称赞，还着重提到他在环保和医疗议题上的成绩。他还在演说中临时加了一句讲稿中没有的话，呼吁台下的民众，“请大家感谢市长无比热忱的投入。”
The occasionally rough tone of the inaugural was widely remarked upon on social media, where some people expressed surprise that Mr. Bloomberg would come under attack at an event typically reserved for a show of harmonious transition.
就职典礼上不时出现的尖刻言论，在社交媒体上受到了广泛关注。这通常是一个专门用来展示权力和谐交接的场合，一些人表示，此时布隆伯格受到批评，让人感到惊讶。
Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor under Mr. Bloomberg who is tending to the former mayor’s image, called into a program on the radio station WNYC on Thursday to say he wanted to correct the record on some of the things said at the inauguration event.
在布隆伯格任内担任过副市长的霍华德·沃尔夫森(Howard Wolfson)维护了前任市长的形象。他周四致电WNYC电台，称自己想纠正就职典礼上的言论中所提及的一些事情。
“It’s not the rhetoric that bothers me — anyone is entitled to their opinion, and there are people who obviously are going to have real disagreements with what we accomplished during the past 12 years,” Mr. Wolfson told the program’s host, Brian Lehrer.
沃尔夫森对节目的主播布莱恩·莱勒(Brian Lehrer)说，“让我不快的并不是言辞本身，毕竟每个人都有权保有自己的意见，而且针对过去12年里的成绩，显然有一些人存在实实在在的分歧。”
But he pointed out that Mr. Belafonte had suggested New York had a burgeoning prison population when, in fact, incarceration rates dropped sharply under Mr. Bloomberg.
然而他指出，贝拉方特提到纽约在押人员数量大幅增加，但实际上监禁率在布隆伯格任内出现了大幅下降。
“I do think it’s important to have a common set of facts and to really understand what the data is,” Mr. Wolfson said. “This was a very data-driven mayor, and we should talk about the data.”
“我真的认为要有一套一致承认的事实，而且要了解数据到底是怎样的，”沃尔夫森说。“他是一个关注数据的市长，我们也应当就数据论事。”