SAMARKAND, Uzbekistan — For most of the year, Dr. Tamara Khidoyatova treats patients as a doctor at a hospital here in this picturesque, old Silk Road city. But for a few weeks every autumn, she is forced to pick cotton, for which she is paid little or nothing.
乌兹别克斯坦撒马尔罕——一年中大部分时间，塔玛拉·希多亚托娃(Tamara Khidoyatova)都在当地一家医院救治病人。这座古城风景如画，坐落在旧时的丝绸之路上。然而，每年秋天，有几个星期，希多亚托娃会被迫去摘棉花，而她为此得到的薪酬极低，或者没有薪酬。
Throughout the fall, when the cotton harvest comes in, the government drafts about a million people, primarily public-sector employees and professionals, to work as cotton pickers, helping bring in the harvest for the world’s fifth-largest cotton exporting nation.
秋天，棉花收获季到来时，政府就会征用约100万人去摘棉花，这些人主要是公共部门的雇员和专业人士。在被选出后，他们要帮着世界上第五大棉花出口国去收棉花。
“You come to work, with all the makeup, wearing nice clothes, good shoes,” Dr. Khidoyatova, 61, said. “And the polyclinic director runs in and says, ‘I need 40 people in the field, the bus is outside, hurry, hurry!’ ”
“你来工作了，还画着妆，穿着好看的衣服，高档的鞋子，”61岁的希多亚托娃说。“然后综合诊所主任跑过来说，‘我需要40个人到地里去干活，快，快！’”
That was just a day trip. But most people are given some notice, and then go away for a month at a time. Once in the fields, pickers loop heavy cloth sacks over their necks, stoop between the furrows and repeatedly clutch at the white puffs to gather a quota of 120 pounds of raw cotton a day. At night, they sleep on cots in the gymnasiums of village schools or in crude barracks in the fields.
这只是去干一天活。多数人得到简单通知后，一走就是一个月。到了地里，棉花采摘者就将笨重的布袋子搭在脖子上，在犁沟间弯着腰，一遍又一遍地伸手摘下白色棉花团，努力达到一天采摘120磅原棉的指标。晚上，他们睡在简易床上，在村里学校的体育馆或是田地里搭建的工棚过夜。
Until recent years, students, some as young as 7, were routinely called on to pick cotton, and some high school-age youths still do. But pressured by a boycott organized by the Cotton Campaign and the Responsible Sourcing Network, groups that have worked with major Western garment companies, Uzbekistan has mostly stopped using students in the fields. To replace them, the authorities have in effect turned to their parents.
几年前，学生还会被定期征来摘棉花，其中小的只有七岁，而一些高中生大小的孩子现在仍会被派来摘棉花。然而，和大型西方服装公司合作的“棉花运动”(Cotton Campaign)及“尽责采购商网络”(Responsible Sourcing Network)组织的抵制行动，给乌兹别克斯坦政府带来很大压力，该国已在很大程度上停止在田地里使用学生劳工。为找到替代劳工，乌国政府实际上转向了他们的父母。
It is one of the world’s more bizarre systems of agricultural labor, possible, perhaps, only in one of the world’s most cloistered and repressive societies. Central Asia’s most populous country, at 30 million, Uzbekistan since 1989 has been ruled by President Islam Karimov, first as a Soviet apparatchik and later as head of state. Human Rights Watch estimates that the country holds more political prisoners than the rest of the former Soviet Union combined.
这是世界上最奇怪的农业劳工机制之一，或许，它也只可能出现在这样一个世界上最与世隔绝、最具压迫性的社会中。乌兹别克斯坦是中亚人口最多的国家，有3000万人口，自1989年以来，该国就被伊斯兰·卡里莫夫总统(Islam Karimov)统治着，开始他是苏联的共产党官僚，后来成为一国之首。人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)估计，该国的政治犯比其他所有前苏联国家的政治犯加在一起还多。
To hear the government tell it, all these teachers, doctors, bureaucrats, employees of small businesses, engineers and architects “volunteer” for a few weeks of farm labor each year.
而政府的说法是，所有的老师、医生、政府雇员、小企业雇员、工程师和建筑师，都是“志愿”每年来农场干几个星期农活。
“The government doesn’t invest in mechanization at all because they have cheap labor, and cotton gathered by hand is more valuable,” said Sergei V. Naumov, an Uzbekistan-based reporter for Ferghana.news, a website for Central Asian news, who has covered the harvest for a decade.
“政府完全不投资推动机械化，因为它有廉价劳动力，而且手工摘的棉花更值钱，”报道中亚新闻的网站费尔干纳新闻网(Ferghana.news)驻乌兹别克斯坦记者谢尔盖·V·瑙莫夫(Sergei V. Naumov)说。瑙莫夫10年来一直在报道这里的棉花收获。
In simplest terms, it is a system of forced labor, rights groups and international labor monitors say, an old scourge of the cotton industry that has returned to life. With its monopoly on the industry, the government pays far below world prices for the cotton, reaping extortionate profits that help balance the budget. In return, it provides farmers with free labor.
权益组织和国际劳工监督组织称，简单地说，这是一种强制劳动体制，是棉花产业的旧祸害死灰复燃。由于在棉花产业占据着垄断地位，政府收购棉花的价格远低于世界市场水平，它从中赚取暴利，来帮助其维持收支平衡。作为回报，政府为农场主提供免费劳动力。
Still, the international apparel industry, having tolerated forced labor of younger children in Uzbekistan’s fields and already stung from negative publicity for relying on Asian sweatshop labor, has extended its boycott here to include forced labor of any sort. So far, 136 companies, including Disney, Fruit of the Loom, Gap, H & M, Levi’s and Walmart, have pledged to avoid knowingly buying Uzbek cotton as long as the practice continues.
国际服装业曾经容忍乌兹别克斯坦强迫童工在地里劳动。但在该行业因为依赖亚洲血汗工厂而遭受负面曝光的冲击之后，针对乌兹别克斯坦，该行业已将抵制范围扩大到任何一种强制劳工。到目前为止，已有包括迪士尼(Disney)、鲜果布衣(Fruit of the Loom)、Gap、H&M、李维斯(Levi’s)和沃尔玛(Walmart)在内的136家公司表示，只要这种做法仍在继续，就保证不会在知情情况下购买乌兹别克斯坦的棉花。
That threat goes unheard here through the harvest months, from mid-September to mid-November, when more than a million people are sent from cities and villages into the sprawling fields of mud and ripe cotton plants. There, the conditions for teachers and doctors are not so different from those of the slaves of the past, but with one modern twist.
在当地从9月中旬到11月中旬的棉花收获季，没有人去理会这个威胁；超过100万人被从城市和乡村送到满是泥巴和成熟棉花的广阔田地里。老师和医生的状况和过去奴隶劳工生活的环境没什么不同，只是加了一点现代改动。
“Nobody beats you with a whip,” Muhabbat Abdullayeva, a stately, plump woman with short, dyed-red hair who teaches at an elementary school, said in a village near Samarkand.
“没有人拿着鞭子打你，”小学老师姆哈巴特·阿伯杜拉耶娃(Muhabbat Abdullayeva)在撒马尔罕附近的一个村庄说道，阿伯杜拉耶娃举止优雅、体态丰腴，留着染成红色的短发。
But failing to “volunteer” can lead to being fired or arrested.
不“自愿”劳动的后果可能是被开除或逮捕。
Come harvest time, office managers and school principals divide employees into two groups, then rotate them through cotton picking and ordinary duties. Those not picking work a double shift or, in the case of teachers, combine two classrooms.
收获季到来时，办公室经理或学校校长会将员工分成两组，然后让两组人在摘棉花和做日常工作之间轮班。不摘棉花的人会做两个班，或者是老师的话，就会将两个班级合在一起上课。
In this system, your boss at work is also your boss in the fields. Cotton-picking skills become a component of annual job evaluations, skewing decisions on promotions, said Dmitri Tikhonov, a rights activist and an authority on Uzbekistan’s cotton-picking policies.
在这种制度下，你工作上的老板也是你在地里干活的老板。摘棉花的技能成为每年工作评估的因素，有可能让你的升职泡汤，权利倡导人士、研究乌兹别克斯坦棉花采摘政策的权威德米特里·吉洪诺夫(Dmitri Tikhonov)说。
In June, the State Department ranked Uzbekistan in the lowest category for tolerating human trafficking and forced labor.
6月份，在一份对贩卖人口和强制劳动纵容度的排名中，美国国务院将乌兹别克斯坦列入最低的一个类别。
“What makes the situation in Uzbekistan so unusual is that the Uzbek government works as the trafficker in chief, mobilizing the population with the use of officials at all levels,” Steve Swerdlow, a Central Asia researcher with Human Rights Watch, said in an interview. “Millions of its citizens pick cotton in abusive conditions, exposed to pesticides, without potable water, with inadequate shelter, for which they receive little or no pay.”
“乌兹别克斯坦的情况之所以如此不同寻常，是因为其政府就是非法活动的主脑，它在利用所有级别的官员来调动人口，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)的中亚研究员史蒂夫·斯维尔德罗(Steve Swerdlow)在采访中说。“乌兹别克斯坦有数百万人在恶劣的条件下采摘棉花，他们没有任何保护自己不受杀虫剂伤害的措施，也没有适合饮用的水和充分的遮蔽，最后只得到很少一点报酬，或什么报酬也没有。”
Dr. Khidoyatova, in an interview in her kitchen, over tea and plates of raisins, almonds and lumps of brown sugar, the local delicacies, said, “Every fall for the past 22 years, all the years of Uzbek independence, I had to pick cotton, and every year things only get worse.”
希多亚托娃在她的厨房里接受了采访，大家喝着茶，吃着一碟碟葡萄干、杏仁和红糖块，这些都是当地特色。她说，“在过去22年的每个秋天，在乌兹别克斯坦独立后的每一年，我都要摘棉花，而且情况一年比一年糟。”
Every cotton harvest, meanwhile, brings more signs of dysfunction in the general economy because of absent employees. Hospitals close for all but emergencies. The social welfare system breaks down, as bureaucrats who disburse pensions are no longer at their desks.
同时，由于雇员的缺勤，每一次棉花丰收都会导致整体经济呈现更多运转不良的迹象。医院除急诊部门以外全部关门。社会福利系统崩溃，因为负责发放养老金的官员不在办公室里。
The Uzbek government characterizes the widespread participation in the harvest as upholding tradition or patriotic service, akin to volunteering for the National Guard or a neighborhood cleanup. Pickers are paid about 3 cents a pound, a pittance even here. Sometimes, the cost of a bus ticket and food exceeds this payment, meaning laborers work for nothing or even end up owing the state.
乌兹别克斯坦政府认为，人们对收获的广泛参与是在维持传统或是爱国的表现，类似于自愿参加国民警卫队(National Guard)或清扫自己的住房周边。每采摘一磅棉花，采摘者可以拿到大约3美分（约合0.2元人民币），即使在乌兹别克斯坦，这都属于很低的标准。有时候，这点钱买张汽车票或者买点食物都不够，也就是说工人的劳动根本没有回报，甚至最后还会欠国家的钱。
In a speech in October, Mr. Karimov praised the citizenry, saying: “Since olden days cotton has been seen as a symbol of whiteness, of spiritual purity. And only people of pure mind and beautiful soul are capable of farming it.”
卡里莫夫在10月的演讲中对乌兹别克斯坦公民表示了赞扬，他说，“从古到今，棉花一直被视作洁白和精神纯洁的象征。只有精神纯洁和拥有美丽灵魂的人才有能力采摘棉花。”