BEIJING — The Chinese government is investigating the detention of more than 100 Chinese citizens by Myanmar on suspicion that they entered the country to engage in logging, a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Myanmar said Tuesday.
北京——中国驻缅甸大使馆的一位新闻发言人周二表示，中国政府正在调查100多名中国公民被缅甸拘押一事，这些人被怀疑进入缅甸伐木。
A group of diplomats has arrived in Myitkyina, the capital of Kachin State in northern Myanmar, to discuss the situation with officials there and to offer consular services to the detained Chinese, the spokesman, Pan Xuesong, said in a written statement.
新闻发言人潘雪松在一份书面声明中说，一批外交官已抵达缅甸北部的克钦邦首府密支那，与那里的官员讨论有关情况，并为被扣留的中国人提供领事服务。
According to Chinese news reports on Monday, the Chinese were detained in early January after having entered Kachin, which is west of Yunnan Province. The state is a volatile area of Myanmar, also known as Burma, that has been split by a long-running civil war. Part of the state is controlled by the Kachin Independence Organization and its armed wing, the Kachin Independence Army. There has been intense fighting in recent years between the rebel army, made up of ethnic Kachin, and the military of Myanmar. Recently, there has been another surge in violence.
据周一的中国新闻报道，这些中国人一月初进入克钦邦后被拘押，克钦邦位于云南省以西，是缅甸的一个动荡地区，被一场长期的内战所分裂。该邦的部分地区在克钦族独立组织及其武装派别克钦独立军控制之下。由克钦少数民族组成的判军与缅甸军队近年来在这里发生过多次激烈战斗。最近，暴力事件又在激增。
Kachin is rich in natural resources that include jade and wood. Chinese have often crossed the border from Yunnan to exploit and trade those resources.
克钦有丰富的自然资源，包括玉石和木材。中国人常从云南越境进入该地区从事这些资源的开发和贸易活动。
Mr. Pan said the Chinese diplomats in Myitkyina were holding talks with “relevant officials from the local government and police and immigration departments.”
潘雪松说，中国外交官在密支那与“当地政府有关官员以及警察和移民部门”进行了会谈。
Mr. Pan also said that the diplomats in Myitkyina had failed to find any evidence that hundreds of Chinese civilians had been trapped with ethnic Kachin civilians in an area of Kachin where clashes have been taking place in recent days. On Monday, a state-run Chinese newspaper, Global Times, reported that hundreds of Chinese, including jade miners and merchants, had been trapped by fighting in the state and were running low on food and water. The Global Times report cited an intelligence official with a rebel group but did not give the official’s name.
潘雪松还表示，外交官在密支那未找到任何证据表明，有数百名中国平民与当地克钦平民一起被困在最近几天发生冲突的克钦地区。周一，中国国有报纸《环球时报》报道，包括玉石矿主和商人在内的数百名中国人在克钦的战火中被困，缺少食物和饮水。《环球时报》的报道引用了一个反叛组织情报官员的话，但没有给出该人的姓名。
U Mong Gwong, an officer of the Kachin Independence Army, said by telephone on Tuesday that 250 to 300 Chinese civilians were indeed trapped in the Hpakant area and that the Burmese Army should allow them to leave. U Zaw Htay, a director in the office of the president, Thein Sein, declined to say how many people were trapped but said the issue would be resolved “according to laws.”
克钦独立军的一名军官蒙光(U Mong Gwong，音译)周二在电话中说，确有250名到300名中国平民被困在帕敢地区，缅甸军队应该允许他们离开当地。登盛(Thein Sein，又译吴登盛)总统办公室主任佐泰(U Zaw Htay)婉言拒绝表示有多少人被困，但说问题将“依法”得到解决。
Fighting has flared recently in other border regions of Myanmar between government forces and ethnic rebel militias similar to the Kachin Independence Army. In the northern state of Shan, the army is facing off against an alliance of ethnic Kachin, Palung, Shan and Kokang. The violence could derail government plans for a cease-fire on Feb. 12, which is Union Day, a national holiday commemorating the unification of the country in 1947.
缅甸政府军与类似克钦独立军的少数民族反叛游击队在缅甸的其他边境地区近来也爆发过战斗。在北部的掸邦，政府军面对的是一个由克钦族、巴朗族、掸族和果敢族人组成的少数民族联军。暴力事件可能会导致政府打算在2月12日停火的计划破产，2月12日是纪念1947年国家统一的全国性节日联邦日。