The April 25 earthquake in Nepal and powerful aftershocks have not only killed more than 8,000 people and destroyed thousands of homes, but also left historic buildings in ruins. While reconstruction could take decades, the Chinese web services company Baidu has begun a campaign to recreate these structures online.
尼泊尔4月25日发生的地震以及后来发生的强烈余震，不仅造成8000多人死亡，毁坏了成千上万家的住房，而且还把许多历史建筑变为废墟。重建可能需要数十年的时间，不过中国的网络服务公司百度已经开始了一项在线重建这些建筑的行动。
“We want to apply our own technology instead of donating money or using another corporate relief effort to provide help for the earthquake,” said Kaiser Kuo, Baidu’s director for international communications, in a telephone interview.
“我们要用我们自己的技术，而不是用捐钱、或通过其他企业救灾努力，来为震后重建提供帮助，”百度的国际交流主管郭怡广在接受电话采访时说。
In its campaign, called “See you again, Kathmandu,” Baidu has appealed to Internet users to upload their photographs of historic sites. The imaging system requires hundreds of photos taken from different angles and under different weather conditions to create a comprehensive view of the sites. According to Baidu, between 500 and 1,000 photos are needed for the digital re-creation of a single building. These static images can be used to generate a 3-D video to allow users to view the sites from the perspective of a visitor touring them before the earthquake.
百度在这个名为“See you again，加德满都”的行动中呼吁网民们上传他们拍摄的历史古迹照片。百度的成像系统需要数百张从不同角度、在不同天气条件下拍摄的照片，来制做这些景点的全部图像。据百度说，用数字化方式重建仅一座建筑物就需要500到1000张照片。这些静态照片可以用于产生3D视频，让网络用户可以从地震前观光者的视角来欣赏这些景点。
Nepal is a popular destination for Chinese tourists, and since the campaign was announced on April 29, more than 42,000 photographs have been uploaded, and eight sites have been 70 percent to 80 percent digitally recreated, including the 17th-century Maju Deval temple in Kathmandu.
尼泊尔是中国游客的热门目的地。自从行动于4月29日宣布以来，百度收到的上传照片已超过42,000张，有八个景点的数字重建已经完成了70％到80％，包括位于加德满都的17世纪的马驹德瓦尔寺。
“We started with sites on the Unesco World Cultural Heritage list, but we are expecting more sites to be recreated, not only those in Kathmandu, but other damaged buildings in Nepal,” Mr. Kuo said.
“我们是从列入联合国教科文组织世界文化遗产名录的古迹开始的，我们预计会重建更多的景点，不仅是加德满都的那些，而且也包括尼泊尔其他的受损建筑物，”郭怡广说。
To encourage non-Chinese speakers to contribute photographs, the campaign’s website for uploading images is in both English and Chinese. Baidu is also planning to hold an exhibition of the digitally recreated historic sites.
为鼓励不懂中文的人也贡献照片，这一行动用来上传照片的网站是中英双语的。百度还计划为数字重建的古迹举办一个展览。