Nicky Bailey and Nadja Saralam were not among the top finishers in the 2013 Peking to Paris Motor Challenge when they reached the checkered flag at the magnificent Place Vendôme here earlier this month. However, they managed to impress everyone with their feat of driving an open-topped 100-year-old automobile 7,610 miles, negotiating harsh terrain and weather in the process.
本月早些时候，尼基·贝利(Nicky Bailey)与纳迪亚·萨拉姆(Nadja Saralam)到达雄伟壮观的凡多姆广场时，并没有跻身2013北京—巴黎拉力赛(Peking to Paris Motor Challenge)优胜选手之列。但他们给所有人留下了深刻印象，因为他们驾驶一辆有100年历史的敞篷老爷车，越过各种崎岖地貌，经过各种严酷天气，行驶了7610英里。
The Perth, Australia-based pair drove their 1913 Ford Model T into the City of Light after a grueling monthlong journey that had commenced in Beijing on May 28. The rally, originally held in 1907 and previously re-enacted in 1997, 2007 and 2010 by the Endurance Rally Association, featured multiple classes of classic and vintage cars.
5月28日，这对来自澳大利亚珀斯的车手开着他们的1913年福特T型车(Ford Model T)，从北京出发。经过一个月的艰苦征途，他们到达了这座光明之城。该赛事最初开始于1907年，并于1997年、2007年及2010年由耐力聚集协会(Endurance Rally Association)恢复，特点就是各种层次的经典车型及老爷车。
“Everyone thought we might have had a tough trip,” said Mr. Bailey, who found the car in pieces two years ago at an auction in Queensland. “On the contrary, we had a great time as this car is so simple and easy to work on. Any problem we wanted to fix could be done very quickly.”
两年前，贝利在昆士兰的一场拍卖会上发现了这辆破旧不堪的老爷车。他说，“人人都以为我们会在路上历经艰难。恰恰相反，由于这辆车非常简单，易于操作，我们的旅程很愉快。不管遇到什么问题，我们都可以很快处理好。”
For example, they found a quick solution when their car sustained front spring damage in Mongolia.
例如，车的前减震弹簧在蒙古出现了损坏，他们很快就找到了解决方法。
“We replaced it with a piece of wood, which did the job for three hours,” he said. “By then we managed to make it to a garage where we found leaf springs.”
他说，“我们用一片木头代替弹簧，接着开了3个小时。之后我们就开进一个汽车修理厂，找到了簧片。”
Ms. Saralam, who served as Mr. Bailey’s co-driver, said that on a downhill with a bit of a tail-wind, the car reached a top speed of just over 50 miles an hour.
萨拉姆是贝利的副驾驶。她说，有一次开车下坡，加上有顺风，车达到了最高速度，也就是每小时50英里多一点儿。
“Our car wasn’t the fastest but it was reliable and comfortable,” she said. “The chassis is made of special steel. In Mongolia, people driving behind us thought we were driving a moon buggy as the chassis would twist and turn according to the terrain while we would be perfectly still in the middle.
她说，“我们的车不是最快的，但是既可靠又舒适，底盘是特殊钢材做成的。在蒙古，在我们后面开车的人觉得我们是在开一辆月球探险车，因为底盘会随着地形弯曲并转向，而我们坐在车里却稳如泰山。”
“The other good thing about this car was that it doesn’t have a roof,” Ms. Saralam said. “We could smell the earth and feel as if we were part of the amazing landscapes that unfolded before us every single day. We were snowed upon, had to brave hail and the sun. All this made the drive even more fun. The ones driving cars with roofs saw their entire trip as though they were looking through a TV.”
萨拉姆说，“这辆车还有一个优点，那就是没有车顶。我们可以闻到泥土的清香，感觉自己就是这每天展现在我们面前的美丽风光的一部分。雪花飘落在我们头上，我们得穿过冰雹，得承受烈日。但这一切都使得旅途更加有趣。那些开着有顶车的人，整个旅途当中都像是在看电视里的画面。”
Mr. Bailey said it took him nine months to prepare the car, which involved rebuilding the engine with a new crankshaft, carburetor and pistons. He also built the body, which is a replica of the Model T that participated in the New York to Seattle race in 1909.
贝利说，他花了九个月时间来准备这辆车，包括给引擎加上新的曲轴、化油器和活塞。他还建造了一个车身，车身是一辆参加过1909年纽约-西雅图拉力赛的T型车的复制品。
“All the mechanical parts are original. The only modern components are the rear disc brakes which were purely for safety reasons,” he said.
“所有的机械部件都是原装的。唯一的现代组件是后盘式刹车，这纯粹是出于安全考虑，”他说。
Of course, driving a 100-year-old car wasn’t easy.
当然，开一辆100岁的汽车并不容易。
“I had blisters and sore shoulders because of constantly holding the steering,” Mr. Bailey said. “We had problems going downhill due to braking issues, because of which we had to go around some of the big passes.”
“因为不停地握着方向盘，我手上磨出了水泡，肩膀也发酸，”贝利说。“由于制动问题，我们下坡时有困难，所以不得不绕一些大圈。”
Ms. Saralam remarked that they had chosen a Model T with no roof because they wanted to get as close as possible to the experience the original racers had. “I think that’s the spirit of this race,” she said.
萨拉姆说，他们之所以选择一辆没有车顶的T型车，是因为他们想尽可能接近地感受当初那些赛车手的体验。“我想，这就是这次车赛的灵魂所在，”她说。
Surprisingly, Mr. Bailey and Ms. Saralam packed all the luggage, spare parts and tools they needed in the car’s small baggage space.
令人吃惊的是，贝利和萨拉姆把他俩需要的所有行李、备用零件和工具都塞进了这辆车窄小的行李箱。
“We didn’t carry lot of clothes,” Ms. Saralam said. “Every day, I was wearing the same set of clothes, which I would wash in the hotel the previous evening.”
“我们没有带太多衣服，”萨拉姆说。“我每天都穿同一套衣服，我会在前一晚的旅馆中把它洗好。”
Mongolian terrain was the toughest of all, she said.
蒙古的地形是最困难的，她说。
“We suffered suspension damage, while other cars had troubles there, too,” she said. “Generally speaking, Mongolia implants a fungus in your car which doesn’t show up until you have reached further into Europe. But the initial damage is done in Mongolia.”
“我们曾遭遇悬挂受损，其他车辆也在那里遇上了问题，”她说。“总体说来，蒙古会在你的车里种下一种真菌，这东西要到你接着开进欧洲时才会显露出来。然而，损坏最初是在蒙古发生的。”
The Model T was the oldest among the 100 cars that participated in the rally, but it wasn’t the only one that attracted attention from the sizable crowd that had gathered at the event’s conclusion. A 1917 La France Tourer with a monstrous 14.5-liter engine was one of the more notable cars.
T型车是参加拉力赛的100辆车中最老的一款，但却并不是唯一让观看活动闭幕的大批观众瞩目的一辆。一辆拥有14.5升庞大引擎的1917年“法国旅行车”(La France Tourer)也是最受关注的汽车之一。
The rally may be over, but Ms. Saralam said she was ready to get on the road again.
拉力赛或许是结束了，萨拉姆却说她已经准备好再次上路。
“I would love to jump in the Model T and drive back to Beijing,” she said.
“我很想跳上T型车，一路开回北京，”她说。