As their family grew, Benjamin Berkman and Boji Wong knew they would need more space than they had in their two-bedroom Battery Park City condominium.
随着家庭的壮大，本杰明·贝尔克曼(Benjamin Berkman)和王博吉（Boji Wong，音）心里明白，他们在炮台公园城(Battery Park City)那套两居室的共管公寓已经不够大了。
After their second child was born, they went on a hunt for a bigger place.
第二个孩子出世后，他们开始物色更大的住房。
The couple, who both grew up in Manhattan, had met in high school. They couldn’t find anything suitable in their preferred neighborhood, Lower Manhattan, near Ms. Wong’s family. So, three and a half years ago, they opted for a $1.7 million townhouse in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
夫妇俩从小在曼哈顿长大，两个人在高中时相识。他们比较心仪的是曼哈顿下城区，也就是女方的娘家附近，但在那里找不到合适的房子。于是三年半以前，他们在布鲁克林区的科布尔山(Cobble Hill)选了一套170万美元（约合人民币1047万元）的联排住宅。
“We had a lot of friends who were doing the Brooklyn thing, and I was into it,” said Mr. Berkman, 40, who works in the music field. “Every time we went out there, we kind of enjoyed it.”
“我们有很多朋友喜欢逛布鲁克林，我也是，”现年40岁、从事音乐行业的贝尔克曼表示，“我们每次去那里都挺享受的。”
The four-story townhouse required a complete overhaul. All they kept was the staircase. The renovation took a year and a half.
共四层楼的联排住宅需要彻底装修，他们只保留了原来的楼梯。装修花了一年半时间。
Meanwhile, they sold their Battery Park City apartment, lived with family downtown and had a third child.
与此同时，他们卖掉了炮台公园城的公寓，和家人一起住在市中心，生下了第三个孩子。
As they prepared to move to the Cobble Hill house, Mr. Berkman grew concerned about insurance and quadrupled their contents coverage, joking with the agent, “What’s the worst that could happen — the house burns down?”
当他们准备搬进科布尔山的房子时，贝尔克曼开始担心保险的问题，将家庭财产保险的承包范围增加了三倍。他跟经纪人开玩笑说：“最坏的情况是什么——房子被烧掉？”
The day before the family’s scheduled move, workers were making one final fix to the air-conditioning. The control panel was in a dressing area near the master bedroom. Workers moved a lamp that was regulated by a timer. When the bulb went on, clothing ignited. The house was destroyed in the ensuing fire.
就在一家人打算搬家的前一天，工人们对空调做了最后的调试。控制板在主卧附近的更衣区里。工人们挪了一盏由一个定时开关控制的台灯。灯一亮，衣服就烧着了。房子也在随后的火灾中被烧毁。
The insurance company declared a total loss, but covered the cost of rebuilding, along with living expenses. Without such coverage, “we would have been ruined,” Mr. Berkman said.
保险公司将损失情况认定为全损，但是承担了重建费和生活开支。如果没有保险赔偿，“我们的生活就毁了。”贝尔克曼表示。
“Once the proverbial smoke clears, it really does make you realize what’s important,” he said. “You can lose all of your stuff, and it’s all replaceable. The most valuable thing to me are my kids and family.”
“浓烟散尽之后，这次惨痛的教训确实能让你意识到什么是重要的，”他说，“对我来说，最宝贵的就是我的孩子和家庭。”
While the rebuilding began, the couple rented temporarily in a small TriBeCa co-op building. To keep their options open, they began looking for a three-bedroom to buy in the neighborhood. Even with a budget in the $4 million range, they found little inventory.
房屋重建的过程中，夫妇俩在翠贝卡区的一栋小楼房里租下一套合作公寓，作为临时住处。为保留更多选择的余地，他们开始在当地社区内寻购三居室。即使拥有400万美元（约合人民币2463万元）的预算，他们找到的存量房依然很少。
“I was not interested in a fixer-upper at that point,” said Ms. Wong, 39, a lawyer who is now an admissions officer at her alma mater Friends Seminary in Manhattan.
“那个时候，我对于有待修缮的房源没兴趣。”王博吉说。现年39岁的她是一名律师，目前在其母校、曼哈顿私立学校Friends Seminary担任招生负责人。
They saw a sunny, move-in-condition three-bedroom with around 2,200 square feet in an eight-unit co-op. The place had plenty of built-in shelving as well as basement storage. The listing price was $3.375 million, with monthly maintenance of around $1,000.
他们找到了一套光线充足、可以直接入住的三居室，面积在2200平方英尺（约合204平方米）左右，位于一栋包含八套住宅单位的合作公寓大楼内。屋子里有很多嵌入式橱柜，地下室的储藏间也很大。房子的挂牌价为337.5万美元（约合人民币2078万元），每个月的维护费在1000美元（约合人民币6158元）左右。
The couple were heartbroken to lose it in a bidding war. It sold for $3.58 million; they had been outbid by $10,000.
让夫妇俩心碎的是，他们在竞购战中输给了别人。房子以358万美元（约合人民币2205万元）的价格卖了出去；买家的出价比他们高出1万美元（约合人民币6万元）。
Then, through friends, they heard of a condominium with nearly 2,400 square feet in the two-building Mohawk Atelier on Duane Street. It had been on and off the market for several years.
后来，他们通过朋友得知，杜安街(Duane Street)的双塔建筑Mohawk Atelier大楼里，有一套将近2400平方英尺（约合223平方米）的共管公寓待售。这套房子已经断断续续地上市、下市了好几年。
Although they hesitated at the monthly charges — around $4,200 — they went for it, agreeing on a price of $3.9 million. But the seller removed it from the market. The place was later re-listed at $4.5 million, and sold for $4.325 million.
尽管4200美元（约合人民币2.6万元）左右的月度费用让他们有点犹豫，但他们还是争取了一番，双方商定的房价为390万美元（约合人民币2402万元）。但是，卖家又将房子撤出了市场。后来，这套房子以450万美元（约合人民币2771万元）的价格重新挂牌上市，最终以432.5万美元（约合人民币2663万元）的价格卖出。
Again through friends, the couple found another condo on Duane Street. This one, a triplex with bedrooms on the top and bottom levels, had around 3,000 square feet plus a small back terrace. They offered the asking price, $4.5 million. Monthly charges were around $2,800. That one, too, was taken off the market.
又是通过朋友，他们在杜安街找到一套共管公寓。这是一座三层住宅，顶层和一层都有卧室，面积3000平方英尺（约合279平方米）左右，屋后还带一座小露台。他们的出价与卖家的要价相同，都是450万美元（约合人民币2771万元）。每月费用在2800美元（约合人民币17242元）左右。但那套房子后来也被撤市了。
By last fall, they were ready for a break from the search. They could move into the Cobble Hill house, but their eldest was in kindergarten and that would mean uprooting the family. They wondered about rearing young children in a four-story house. “There would have been many falls on those stairs,” Ms. Wong said. “We said, ‘Let’s just rent. If something comes up, it will come up.’ ”
到去年秋天时，他们可以中断找房了。科布尔山的房子已可入住，但是他们最大的孩子已经上幼儿园了，这就意味着一家人得。他们无法想象如何在四层的房子里抚养年幼的孩子。“他们爬楼梯肯定会摔很多跤的，”王博吉说，“我们当时说，‘我们就租房吧，该发生的事情总会发生的。’”
They moved into a three-bedroom in a TriBeCa rental building and sold the Cobble Hill house for $3.75 million.
他们搬进了翠贝卡一栋出租楼里的三居室公寓，并以375万美元（约合人民币2309万元）的价格卖掉了科布尔山的房子。
Then, in the spring, the agents for the sunny three-bedroom co-op they had liked so much contacted them: It was again for sale.
来年春天，他们曾经心仪无比的那套采光充足的三居室合作公寓有了新消息，经纪人联系他们说：这套房子又在销售了。
“I said, ‘What’s the catch?’ ” Ms. Wong said. “Why are these people, after winning the bidding war, wanting to sell? Is something wrong with it? After all the real estate trials and tribulations I had been through, I knew better than to get excited about it.”
“我说，‘有什么猫腻吗？’”王博吉说，“为什这些人打赢了竞购战，又要卖房子？出了什么问题？我在房地产市场经历过了那么多波折和磨难，听到这种消息都不会那么容易激动了。”
It turned out that the sellers, with young children and a recent job change, had a craving for the suburbs.
原来，带着年幼孩子的卖家最近刚刚换了工作，想要住到郊区去。