More men are steering clear of Broadway, and not even this spring’s ultimate bro show — “Rocky,” the new musical about the beloved boxing underdog — has found a way to fill seats with them.
有更多男性在躲避百老汇，即使是今春的终极硬汉大戏《洛奇》(Rocky)都发现，要想让男性观众到场实在是难上加难，《洛奇》是一部新推出的音乐剧，讲述了惹人喜爱的过气拳击手的故事。
While men have been hanging back for years, their current scarcity, at a time when overall Broadway attendance is down, is particularly stark. Only 32 percent of audience members last year were men, or 3.7 million, compared with 42 percent (or 4.2 million) in 1980.
男性对百老汇若即若离的态度已持续多年，在一个百老汇上座率下降的年代，男性目前的上座稀缺性尤为明显。去年，只有32%的观众，即370万观众是男性，而在1980年，男性观众的比例为42%（即420万）。
This season is not providing any relief. Yankees fans skipped the baseball-themed “Bronx Bombers,” which flopped fast. John Grisham guys passed on the adaptation of “A Time to Kill,” which closed after seven weeks. Among musicals, “Big Fish” was all about dads, and “First Date” sold shot glasses to underscore its dude appeal, yet both shows were strikingly poor sellers.
今年的演出季没能带来任何宽慰。以棒球为主题的《布朗克斯轰炸机》(Bronx Bombers)未得到洋基队(Yankee)粉丝的垂青，迅速落败。根据约翰·格里森姆(John Grisham)的小说改编的剧目《杀戮时刻》(A Time to Kill)也未能俘获格里森姆死忠的欢心，上演仅7周即落幕。在众多音乐剧中，《大鱼》(Big Fish)是一部讲述父爱的剧目，《第一次约会》(First Date)靠兜售烈性酒强调自己的男性魅力，不过，这两部剧的票房都损失惨重。
Women drive Broadway sales, though successful shows often depend on them to wrangle their husbands or boyfriends.
女性带动了百老汇的销售额，不过，成功的演出往往取决于她们把自己的丈夫或男友带进场。
That might be the Achilles’ heel of “The Bridges of Madison County,” a new romantic musical based on the enormously successful book and film. Producers have taken out emergency loans to keep running, in part because the show has proved so unpopular with men.
这也许正是畅销书和卖座电影《廊桥遗梦》(The Bridges of Madison County)改编的新版爱情音乐剧的弱点所在。事实已证明，男性对这部剧实在是兴趣寥寥，这也是制作人掏出应急贷款维持该剧运转的部分原因。
“It’s always been a holy grail on Broadway — to have a show that universally appeals to men and women,” said Michele Groner, the lead marketing executive for “Rocky.” “Women are the low-hanging fruit. Trying to appeal to men is an increasingly scary challenge.” (The attendance problem is mostly with straight men; gay men are widely considered by producers and group sales agents to be a reliable Broadway demographic.)
《洛奇》的首席市场推广总监迈克尔·格罗纳(Michele Groner)说，“上演一部能同时吸引男女观众的剧目，一直是百老汇梦寐以求的目标。女性是垂手可得的果子。设法吸引男性则是一个越来越让人生畏的挑战。”（主要是男异性恋者存在上座率上不去的问题；制片人和团体票代广泛认为，男同性恋是可靠的百老汇观众。）
While a night out at the theater used to be a staple for cultured American men, fewer shows are grabbing them these days. One possible reason: The golden age of grown-up musicals like “South Pacific” and “Guys and Dolls” has given way to spectacle-laden shows aimed at moms and children. And while families may have turned “The Lion King” and “Wicked” into billion-dollar blockbusters, men often feel either dragged along to such shows or grateful to be left home with the remote control.
夜间去剧院看演出，曾是格调高雅的美国男士的一项主要消遣，然而近年来却没有几部剧能抓住他们的心。一个可能的原因是，《南太平洋》(South Pacific)和《红男绿女》(Guys and Dolls)等成人音乐剧迭出的黄金时代，已经让位于以母亲和儿童为对象的奇观型音乐剧。举家看戏的模式把《狮子王》(The Lion King)和《女巫前传》(Wicked)变成了票房数以百万计的大戏，然而，男性常常要么觉得，自己是被生拉硬拽着去看此类演出的，要么就是在庆幸自己能留在家里掌控遥控器。
“When my wife and three girls invited me to ‘Mary Poppins,’ I was like, ‘Are you kidding?’ ” said Bert Miranda, an insurance executive who was visiting New York with his family recently, recalling their last trip from Jacksonville, Fla.
正和家人同游纽约的保险业高管贝尔特·米兰达(Bert Miranda)回忆起他们一家子上一次从佛罗里达州杰克逊维尔到纽约的经历时说，“我的妻子和三个女儿邀请我去看《欢乐满人间》(Mary Poppins)，我当时的反应是，‘你们是在开玩笑吧？’”
The Mirandas spoke after seeing “Rocky,” one of the big-budget new shows of the season. Producers believed that highlighting the show’s central romance in ads — with the tagline “Love Wins” — would attract women, while wide swaths of men would want to see a favorite hero. But “Rocky” has been struggling at the box office, grossing $799,879 last week, or 53 percent of the maximum possible amount — barely enough to break even.
米兰达夫妇在看了《洛奇》之后发表了看法，这部剧是本季预算最高的新剧之一。制作人认为，在广告中突显本剧主打的爱情元素——通过“爱情胜利了”这样的广告词——是能够吸引女性观众的，而大量的男性则会去看他们喜爱的英雄。然而，《洛奇》的票房收入一直欠佳，它上周的票房只有79万9879美元（约合480万元人民币），只达到了它可能斩获的最高票房的53%，仅够勉强维持成本。
To bolster attendance, “Rocky” is now making a powerful push for men. The musical’s ads now feature the word “Knockout!” — used in some theater reviews — and television ads are running where the guys are: Jimmy Fallon, Seth Meyers, “Saturday Night Live,” Comedy Central, ESPN. The show is also pursuing a social media campaign using catchphrases from legends from football and baseball.
为了提升上座率，《洛奇》现在正在大力吸引男性观众。这部音乐剧的广告现在鲜明地标上了“击倒！”这个词——在一些剧评中也能看到，电视广告也在拥有众多男性观众的节目和频道上播出，比如吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)和塞斯·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)的节目、《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)、喜剧中心频道(Comedy Central)以及ESPN。同时，这部剧也正在社交媒体上进行宣传，用的是来自橄榄球和棒球领域的传奇人物的口头禅。
While “Rocky” executives don’t have hard numbers by sex, they have noticed men attending together without women — an unusual sight on Broadway — and guys pumping their fists, trading high-fives and cheering Rocky during the climactic title fight, in which a boxing ring slides into the audience.
尽管《洛奇》的高管没有关于不同性别的观众人数的具体数字，但他们注意到，男性没有女性同行结伴观看演出——在百老汇这种情况不同寻常，以及男性看到剧中高潮那一场冠军争夺赛时挥舞拳头、相互击掌、为洛奇加油，这场戏中，拳击台滑进了观众席里。
“Some are in Hugo Boss suits; some are in sweatpants,” Ms. Groner said of the men. “But we need more of them.”
“一些人穿着雨果·波士(Hugo Boss)的套装；一些人穿着运动裤，” 格罗纳说的是那些男观众，“但我们需要更多的男性观众。”
Because Broadway producers do not disclose show-by-show breakdowns by sex — their trade organization releases the overall annual figures — there is no Top 10 list of shows for men. But according to Broadway marketing executives and group sales agents, recent musicals that have drawn strong numbers of men include “The Book of Mormon,” “Jersey Boys,” “Rock of Ages,” “Motown the Musical” and the Monty Python-inspired “Spamalot.” Some plays with popular alpha-male stars — like “Glengarry Glen Ross” with Al Pacino — were solid sellers as well. (Some 80 percent of all Broadway theatergoers see musicals.)
因为百老汇的制片人不会按性别公布每一部作品的观众人数——它们的行业组织会公布每年的总体数字——所以没有男性最爱的10部作品这样的名单。但据百老汇的营销高管和团购代理商称，最近吸引了大量男性观众的音乐剧包括《摩门之书》(The Book of Mormon)、《泽西男孩》(Jersey Boys)、《摇滚年代》（Rock of Ages）、《摩城音乐剧》(Motown the Musical)和受蒙提派森(Monty Python)启发而作《火腿骑士》(Spamalot)。部分有大受欢迎的硬汉型男星参演的剧目，比如阿尔·帕西诺(Al Pacino)参演的《大亨游戏》(Glengarry Glen Ross)，也稳居最受欢迎作品之列。（去百老汇看演出的人中，大约80%的人是去看音乐剧的。）
Yet appealing too exclusively to men can backfire. The lack of men at recent sports plays on Broadway — “Bronx Bombers,” “Magic/Bird” and “Lombardi” — surprised their producers, given the promotional support from the professional baseball, basketball and football leagues. (No leagues or teams put money into the shows, the producers said.) Tony Ponturo, a lead producer of the plays, said he and his partners were “taking a breath” before deciding whether to do another sports play.
然而，过于针对男性也会产生适得其反的后果。最近，观看在百老汇上演的体育题材作品——《布朗克斯轰炸机》、《魔术师/大鸟》(Magic/Bird)和《隆巴尔迪》(Lombardi)——的男性观众不多，考虑到职业棒球、篮球和橄榄球联盟都为这些剧提供了宣传支持，这个结果令制作方大为吃惊。（制作方称，没有联盟或球队投资这些作品。）这些剧的首席制作人托尼·蓬图罗(Tony Ponturo)表示，在决定要不要再制作一部体育题材的剧之前，他和合作伙伴需要“先喘口气”。
“We had a lot of challenges, like getting our men from the suburbs to come during weeknights,” Mr. Ponturo said. “It takes time to blow up the routine of a male who doesn’t normally go to theater. But we didn’t have the money to keep waiting.”
“我们面临很多挑战，比如让郊区的男性观众在工作日的晚上来看演出，”蓬图罗说，“打破一个通常不去看演出的男人的日常安排需要时间，但我们没钱一直等。”
For “Rocky,” audience members like Mr. Miranda will be crucial to spreading positive word of mouth. Wearing a Mets hoodie — he grew up in New Brunswick, N.J. — Mr. Miranda said he would recommend the show to friends, especially because it borrowed “thrilling” elements from the “Rocky” movies — like Bill Conti’s theme and the song “Eye of the Tiger,” which is blended in the show with original music.
对于《洛奇》，像米兰达这样的观众带来的口口相传的正面评价极为重要。身穿大都会(Mets)连帽衫——他在新泽西州的新布朗斯维克长大——的米兰达说自己会向朋友推荐这部剧，尤其是因为这部音乐剧借鉴了《洛奇》系列电影中的“惊悚”元素——比如比尔·康蒂(Bill Conti)的主题曲和《虎之眼》(Eye of the Tiger)这首歌。在这部音乐剧中，这首歌和原创音乐交融在了一起。
“I’m big into baseball, big into the Jacksonville Jaguars, big into the outdoors,” he said. “Not many of my friends see musicals either, but I’ll tell them that this one is for real.”
“我喜欢棒球，是杰克逊维尔美洲虎队(Jacksonville Jaguars)的超级粉丝，热爱户外运动，”他说，“我朋友当中看音乐剧的也不多，但我会告诉他们这部剧真的不错。”