In his eight years in New York, Mike Lee has moved a great deal — sharing rentals throughout Brooklyn and Queens with friends, roommates and siblings.
在纽约的八年生活中，麦克·李(Mike Lee)搬了无数次家——他和朋友、室友以及兄弟姐妹们一起分摊房租，住遍了布鲁克林(Brooklyn)与皇后区(Queens)。
Three years ago, he and Virginia Chiang met through friends, just months after she arrived in New York from her native Los Angeles. She rented a high-ceilinged studio in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn.
三年前，他和弗吉尼亚·蒋(Virginia Chiang)通过朋友认识，没过几个月，她便从老家洛杉矶(Los Angeles)来到纽约，在布鲁克林的卡罗尔花园(Carroll Gardens)租了一间有超高天花板的单间公寓。
The two married in a small ceremony last winter. “We would much rather spend that money on a home or a vacation, anything but a one-day party,” said Mr. Lee, who grew up mostly in Connecticut but spent time in Korea before and after his years at Syracuse University.
去年冬天，两人结了婚，只办了一场小规模的婚礼。“我们宁愿用那笔钱来买套房子，或去度个假，反正不是用来办一整天的派对，”李说。他基本上在康涅狄格州(Connecticut)长大，但在就读雪城大学(Syracuse University)之前和之后的那些年里，一直都待在韩国。
The couple lived in Ms. Chiang’s studio. She loved her neighborhood, which made up for the noisy upstairs neighbor. “It sounded like he brought home ponies every night,” she said.
夫妻俩一度生活在蒋的单间公寓里。她喜欢自己所在的这个社区，也就忍受了楼上吵闹的邻居。“听上去就像他每天晚上都要带一群小马回家。”她说。
After they resolved to buy a studio or a one-bedroom, Ms. Chiang had hopes of staying in Carroll Gardens. But among the first places they saw was a ground-floor studio condominium in Bushwick, Brooklyn, offered for sale by the owner and listed in the high $200,000s. When negotiations stalled, a friend suggested they contact Sunny Pyun, then an agent at Bond New York and now at the Corcoran Group.
在他们决定购置一套单间公寓或一居室公寓后，蒋曾经期待依然能够住在卡罗尔花园社区。但是，在他们最初看的几个地方里，有一处是布鲁克林布什维克(Bushwick)社区的一套底层单间共管公寓，由业主本人发布出售信息，要价20多万美元（约合人民币124万元）。当谈判陷入僵局时，一位朋友建议他们联系时任纽约邦德公司(Bond New York)经纪人的桑尼·卞(Sunny Pyun)，她后来就职于柯克南集团(Corcoran Group)。
“We decided we didn’t know what we were doing and would work with Sunny,” Mr. Lee said.
“我们想明白了，我们对自己在做的这件事并不在行，还是要与桑尼合作。”李说。
Meanwhile, Ms. Chiang, who had studied at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif., left her job as an Asian art specialist at an auction house to study jewelry design and metalsmithing.
与此同时，曾就读于加州帕萨迪纳市(Pasadena)艺术中心设计学院(Art Center College of Design)的蒋，辞去了她在一家拍卖行的亚洲艺术专家的工作，去学习珠宝设计和金属工艺。
With one income, their budget topped out at $400,000. “Carroll Gardens was pretty dry at that price point,” said Mr. Lee, who works as a writer-producer for PIX 11.
由于只有一份收入，他们的预算以40万美元（约合人民币248万元）封顶。“在那样的价格点上，卡罗尔花园的房源少之又少。”身为PIX 11公司撰稿人兼制作人的李说。
As for the wish list, he said, “I was fixated on proximity to trains, and the commute was for me a weirdly huge factor.”
至于有什么心愿，他说，“我得住在火车站附近，对我来说，通勤是个相当重要的因素。”
Furthermore, he said, “easy access to food was a big factor, but who doesn’t want that?” To address both these concerns, he suggested they hunt in Jackson Heights, Queens, near where he had lived for a time. “I had fond memories of the place — good times hanging out there, eating.”
此外，他说，“就餐便利也是一个重要因素，但谁不是这样想呢？”为了满足这两点考虑，他提到，他们曾在皇后区的杰克逊高地(Jackson Heights)找过房，就在他曾住过很久的那所旧居附近。“我对那里有些快乐的回忆——在附近消磨的美好时光，吃饭。”
But they lost interest after seeing a one-bedroom co-op on 74th Street with a view of a fire escape. The price was just $210,000, with maintenance in the mid-$600s. (It remains for sale at $199,950.)
但是，他们在74街(74th Street)看过一套带消防逃生楼梯景观的一居室合作公寓后，就对此地失去了兴趣。这套公寓的价格才21万美元（约合人民币130万元），维护费用大约650美元（约合人民币4027元）左右（这套公寓仍在出售，价格为199950美元[约合人民币123.9万元]）。
Back in Brooklyn, every place had some kind of fatal flaw, like a ground-floor studio co-op on South Oxford Street in Fort Greene, listed for $359,000 with monthly maintenance in the low $400s. The bedroom window faced the sidewalk. “It was like sleeping in a window display, like visual merchandising,” Ms. Chiang said. (The place sold for $353,000.)
回到布鲁克林，每个地方都有某种致命缺陷，例如格林堡(Fort Greene)南牛津街(South Oxford Street)上的一套底层单间合作公寓，市场售价为35.9万美元（约合人民币222.4万元），每月的维护费用低至400多美元（约合人民币2478元）。但这套公寓的卧室窗户面对着人行道。“感觉就像睡在橱窗里，类似视觉营销，”蒋说（该公寓后以35.3万美元[约合人民币219万元]的价格售出）。
Little was wrong, however, with a one-bedroom on Washington Avenue in Prospect Heights, which had a washer-dryer in the bathroom. The co-op’s price was $389,000, with maintenance around $600 a month. A few doors down, a line of waiting diners extended from Tom’s Restaurant.
不过，在展望高地(Prospect Heights)的华盛顿大道(Washington Avenue)上，有套一居室公寓几乎没什么问题，就是浴室里放了一台洗衣/烘干两用机。这套合作公寓的价格为38.9万美元（约合人民币241万元），每个月的维护费用大约为600美元（约合人民币3717元）。隔壁不远处，在Tom’s Restaurant餐厅门外等候就餐的人排起了长队。
“At first I didn’t want to live that close to a restaurant,” Ms. Chiang said. But then she decided such popularity was a good omen for future apartment values.
“起初，我们并不想住得离餐厅太近，”蒋说。但后来她想明白了，如此旺的人气是未来公寓升值的好兆头。
On one visit, music wafted in the bedroom window. “I thought earplugs were my fate in New York,” Ms. Chiang said. “It’s like an added body part.”
在一次看房的过程中，音乐飘进了卧室窗户。“我觉得，只要生活在纽约，戴耳塞就是我的宿命，”蒋说，“就像身体的一个配件了。”
The couple offered $400,000 and were not surprised to be outbid. (The apartment sold for $405,000, with a 50 percent down payment.)
这对夫妻出价40万美元，但竞价没有成功。这也不足为奇（该公寓后以40.5万美元[约合人民币251万元]的价格售出，而且付了50%的预付金）。
Mr. Lee had become worried about the fierce competition they were encountering. “Sunny told us about all-cash buyers,” Mr. Lee said. “I didn’t know what that meant. I just knew that they were our enemies. Why would anyone have that much cash on them, and if you do, why are you looking to buy a one-bedroom?”
李开始为他们所面对的激烈竞争而焦虑。“桑尼对我们说了一些买家支付全额现金的事，”李说，“我不知道那意味着什么。我只知道那些人都是我们的敌人。为什么有人会带那么多现金在身边呢，而且，如果你有那么多现金，为什么还要去买一套一居室的公寓呢？”
Intrigued by a feature in Kinfolk magazine about a Jackson Heights co-op, the couple decided to revisit Jackson Heights.
看了《Kinfolk》杂志上一篇关于杰克逊高地的专题报道后，这对夫妇决定再回去看看。
Some apartments there seemed a bit shabby. But one place was a blank canvas — empty, renovated, bright, airy. The 900-square-foot corner one-bedroom was on a top floor with no neighbors. The listing price was $285,000, with monthly maintenance around $700. At the packed open house, “some guy brought his measuring tape,” Ms. Chiang said. “We thought, ‘This is serious, it’s going to be competitive.’ “
那里有些公寓看起来有点破旧；但有那么个地方，恰如一张空白画布——空空的，翻修过，很明亮，通风好。这套900平方英尺（约合83.6平方米）的转角一居室公寓位于顶楼，再没有住在楼上的邻居了。市场售价为28.5万美元（约合人民币177万元），每月的维护费用大约是700美元（约合人民币4336元）。公开看房那天，人满为患，“有个人还带着他的卷尺，”蒋说，“我们想，‘情况很严峻，竞争会很激烈。’”
Sure enough, a bidding war developed. Still, even when the competition is a cash buyer, “you can show you also have the ability to get the deal done,” said Paul Hyun, who worked with Ms. Pyun at Bond and moved with her to Corcoran.
毫无疑问，一场竞价战拉开了序幕。但是，即便竞争对手是一位带着现金的买家，“你还是可以展示出自己也有能力搞定这笔交易。”与卞同在Bond工作、后来又同她一起加入了柯克南公司的保罗·玄(Paul Hyun)说。
The couple’s final offer was almost $336,000, well within their budget. It was accepted.
这对夫妻的最终出价大约是33.6万美元（约合人民币208万元），恰好限制在了他们的预算内。该价格被接受了。