“Capital in the Twenty-First Century,” the new book by the French economist Thomas Piketty, is a bona fide phenomenon. Other books on economics have been best sellers, but Mr. Piketty’s contribution is serious, discourse-changing scholarship in a way most best sellers aren’t. And conservatives are terrified. Thus James Pethokoukis of the American Enterprise Institute warns in National Review that Mr. Piketty’s work must be refuted, because otherwise it “will spread among the clerisy and reshape the political economic landscape on which all future policy battles will be waged.”
法国经济学家托马·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)的新书《二十一世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)确实成了一个现象。别的经济学书也曾经畅销过，但皮克提的著作是一部能够改变舆论走向的严肃学术作品，大多数畅销书都做不到这一点。而且它让保守派大惊失色。所以美国企业研究所(American Enterprise Institute)的詹姆斯·佩特库奇斯(James Pethokoukis)在《国家评论》(National Review)上警告说，必须对皮克提的作品进行反驳，否则“它就会在知识界传播，重塑政治和经济观念，而未来所有的政策论战都会在这些观念的基础上展开。”
Well, good luck with that. The really striking thing about the debate so far is that the right seems unable to mount any kind of substantive counterattack to Mr. Piketty’s thesis. Instead, the response has been all about name-calling — in particular, claims that Mr. Piketty is a Marxist, and so is anyone who considers inequality of income and wealth an important issue.
那就祝他好运吧。这场辩论中真正令人惊讶的事情是，到目前为止，右翼似乎未能对皮克提的论述提出任何实质性的反击。他们做出的反应全都是贴标签。具体而言就是宣称皮克提是个马克思主义者，任何认为收入和财富的不平等是个重要问题的人，都是马克思主义者。
I’ll come back to the name-calling in a moment. First, let’s talk about why “Capital” is having such an impact.
我等会儿再谈贴标签的问题。首先，我们来谈谈为什么《二十一世纪资本论》一书会有如此巨大的影响。
Mr. Piketty is hardly the first economist to point out that we are experiencing a sharp rise in inequality, or even to emphasize the contrast between slow income growth for most of the population and soaring incomes at the top. It’s true that Mr. Piketty and his colleagues have added a great deal of historical depth to our knowledge, demonstrating that we really are living in a new Gilded Age. But we’ve known that for a while.
皮克提并不是第一个指出我们面临的不平等正在迅速加剧的经济学家，也肯定不是第一个强调收入差距的人——绝大多数人口收入增长缓慢，而最富有的阶层却收入飞涨。皮克提和他的同事的确给我们的知识增添了大量的历史深度，也揭示出我们的确生活在一个新的“镀金时代”(Gilded Age)。但我们知道这一点已经有一阵子了。
No, what’s really new about “Capital” is the way it demolishes that most cherished of conservative myths, the insistence that we’re living in a meritocracy in which great wealth is earned and deserved.
重点并不在此。《二十一世纪资本论》一书真正的新颖之处在于，他摧毁了保守派最为珍视的一些错误信条。保守派坚持认为，我们生活在一个靠才能成功的时代，富人的巨额财富都是赚来的，也都是应得的。
For the past couple of decades, the conservative response to attempts to make soaring incomes at the top into a political issue has involved two lines of defense: first, denial that the rich are actually doing as well and the rest as badly as they are, but when denial fails, claims that those soaring incomes at the top are a justified reward for services rendered. Don’t call them the 1 percent, or the wealthy; call them “job creators.”
在过去二十年里，每当有人尝试把顶层人收入高涨变成政治议题，保守派的回应都是从两个方面辩解：首先，否认富人的境遇真的有那么好，否认其他人的境遇真的有那么坏；如果抵赖不成，就宣称顶层人士的收入是他们提供的服务换来的正当回报。不要管他们叫“那1%”，或“富人”，他们是“就业岗位创造者”。
But how do you make that defense if the rich derive much of their income not from the work they do but from the assets they own? And what if great wealth comes increasingly not from enterprise but from inheritance?
但如果富人的大部分收入并非来源于他们的工作，而是来自他们拥有的财产，那还怎么用这种说辞搪塞？如果越来越多人的财富，并非来自创业进取，而是来自继承，又该怎么说？
What Mr. Piketty shows is that these are not idle questions. Western societies before World War I were indeed dominated by an oligarchy of inherited wealth — and his book makes a compelling case that we’re well on our way back toward that state.
皮克提阐明了，上面这两个问题并非泛泛而谈。第一次世界大战前，西方社会确实是由一个继承来大量财富的寡头阶层把持的。这本书令人信服地阐述道，我们正走在退回那种状态的道路上。
So what’s a conservative, fearing that this diagnosis might be used to justify higher taxes on the wealthy, to do? He could try to refute Mr. Piketty in a substantive way, but, so far, I’ve seen no sign of that happening. Instead, as I said, it has been all about name-calling.
那么，如果一个保守派担心这份诊断书可能成为向富人加税的理由，他该怎么办呢？他可以试着以有理有据的方式反驳皮克提，可是到现在为止，我们还没有看到这方面的任何迹象。就像我说的，实际上全都是贴标签。
I guess this shouldn’t be surprising. I’ve been involved in debates over inequality for more than two decades, and have yet to see conservative “experts” manage to dispute the numbers without tripping over their own intellectual shoelaces. Why, it’s almost as if the facts are fundamentally not on their side. At the same time, red-baiting anyone who questions any aspect of free-market dogma has been standard right-wing operating procedure ever since the likes of William F. Buckley tried to block the teaching of Keynesian economics, not by showing that it was wrong, but by denouncing it as “collectivist.”
我想，自己不应对此感到惊讶。我参加关于不平等的辩论已经超过二十年了，还没有见到过保守派的“专家”能够对这些数字提出反驳，而不在智力上摔跟头。为什么呢？因为事实仿佛根本并没有站在他们那一边。与此同时，只要任何人对自由市场原则从任何角度提出疑问，都会被“抹红”，自从威廉·F·巴克利(William F. Buckley)之类的人试图阻挠凯恩斯学派的经济学理论时开始，这就已经成了右翼的标准操作程序——不是证明那种理论是错的，而是谴责那是“集体主义”。
Still, it has been amazing to watch conservatives, one after another, denounce Mr. Piketty as a Marxist. Even Mr. Pethokoukis, who is more sophisticated than the rest, calls “Capital” a work of “soft Marxism,” which only makes sense if the mere mention of unequal wealth makes you a Marxist. (And maybe that’s how they see it: recently former Senator Rick Santorum denounced the term “middle class” as “Marxism talk,” because, you see, we don’t have classes in America.)
不过，看着保守派们一个接一个地谴责皮克提是马克思主义者，也很令人惊奇。即使是比其他人更有城府的佩特库奇斯，也把这本书称作是“软马克思主义”——这种观点成立的唯一前提是：只要一提财富不平等，你就会成为马克思主者。（或许他们就是这样看待这个议题的。最近，前参议员里克·桑托勒姆[Rick Santorum]谴责“中产阶级”这个词是“马克思主义的调调”，因为你明白的，美国没有阶级。）