For the 2001 comedy “Monsters, Inc.” Pixar Animation Studios devised all manner of squishy, creepy, cuddly, fuzzy, wobbly creatures to populate that tale of monsters who harness the energy of human screams to power their city. Now, the film’s prequel, “Monsters University,” opening June 21, takes its familiar lead characters — the short, green, one-eyed Mike and his tall, furry sidekick, Sully, back to school.
在2001年的喜剧片《怪兽电力公司》(Monsters, Inc.)中，皮克斯动画工作室(Pixar Animation Studios)设计了各种黏糊糊的、可怕的、逗人喜爱的、毛茸茸的或者歪歪斜斜的生物，来当怪兽故事中的居民，这些怪兽利用人类尖叫的能量为他们的城市供电。如今，这部电影的前传《怪兽大学》(Monsters University)于6月21日上映（指北美公映——编注），把其中人们熟悉的主人公——矮小、绿色、独眼的麦克(Mike)和他高高的、毛茸茸的伙伴萨利(Sully)——带回了学校。
Several new colorful characters attend the college, but one of the most curious is Art, a purple longhaired hippie-esque monster majoring in new-age philosophy. He’s one of the misfits of Oozma Kappa (“We’re O.K.!”), a fraternity Mike and Sully join.
这所大学里还有几个有趣的新人物，但是其中最令人好奇的是阿特(Art)，他是一个有着紫色长毛的、嬉皮士式的怪兽，主修新世纪哲学。在麦克和萨利加入的男生联谊会Oozma Kappa（“我们OK！”）中，阿特是个格格不入的人。
With his wide, rainbow-shaped stance, he’s the kind of student who keeps a dream journal and is excited to “laugh with you and cry with you.” From his shape, to his no-worries personality, to the way he moves (and scares), Art proved to be a design challenge.
他身体宽大，站着的时候像彩虹，他是那种会写心情日记的人，会兴奋地“跟你一起大笑，也会跟你一起大哭的人”。从阿特的体型，到他无忧无虑的性格，到他走路（惊恐时的）的姿势，阿特的设计难度很大。
The filmmakers were trying to base characters on college types, like jocks, cool kids and nerds. But, the film’s director, Dan Scanlon, said by phone from Pixar’s headquarters in Emeryville, Calif.: “We didn’t know what Art was. He was this mystery. And in a weird, kind of wonderful way, that became who Art was. We realized that that itself is a college type.”
电影制作人们努力根据大学生的类型来设计里面的人物，比如运动健将、酷小子和书呆子。但是这部电影的导演丹·斯坎隆(Dan Scanlon)在加利福尼亚州埃默里维尔市皮克斯动画工作室的总部通过电话说：“我不知道阿特是哪种类型。他很神秘。后来我们以一种奇怪而神奇的方式设计出了这个角色。我们意识到它自成一格。”
Here is a look at the visual evolution of Art, as explained by Mr. Scanlon, the sketch artist Chris Sasaki and the production designer Ricky Nierva.
下面是对阿特形象演变的回顾，由斯坎隆、绘图艺术家克里斯·佐佐木(Chris Sasaki)和制作设计师里基·涅尔瓦(Ricky Nierva)讲解。
Stretching a Concept
扩展概念
Mr. Scanlon initially proposed making Art a theater major. So Mr. Sasaki began with drawings like this sketch, in which he looks more alligator-like and sports a scarf. “We were playing around with this longer-shaped, chest-out character, where he’s more theatrical and over the top,” Mr. Sasaki said. But the story went in a different direction and Art became more mysterious.
斯坎隆最初想把阿特设计成戏剧系的学生。所以佐佐木先画了一些像右图这样的草图，阿特看起来更像戴着围巾的短吻鳄。“一开始我们设计的是这个长条形的、胸部高挺的人物，他更戏剧化、更夸张，”佐佐木说。但是故事向另一个方向发展了，阿特变得更神秘了。
“With the design, I went through a lot of frustration because I didn’t know where to take it,” he said. “I remember as a joke I drew this letter A and put two dots for eyes in the middle. I thought, hey that’s kind of funny. Maybe he’s just all legs.” This sketch shows an early version of that shape. “I thought, with these legs he could do some really funny walks and would be funny for the audience to see.”
“我设计的时候遇到了很多挫折，因为我们不知道从何设计，”他说，“我记得自己闹着玩的时候，画了个字母A，在中间画了两个圆点当眼睛。我想，嘿，这个有点好玩。也许他就长着两条腿。”这个草图是那个形象的最初版本。“我想，有这样的腿，他走路的时候一定能做出非常滑稽的姿势，观众看着也一定觉得很有趣。”
Soft Pencil, Elastic Feel
软芯铅笔，弹力十足
These pencil sketches by Mr. Scanlon were an attempt to better flesh out Art’s movement, which became more versatile, and his purpose. They helped the creative team visualize some possibilities.
斯坎隆画的这些铅笔素描是为了更好地表现阿特更多样化的动作和他的目的。这些素描帮助创意小组想出一些可能的动作。
In one scene, he wraps himself in a circle and rolls like a tire. In another, he stretches himself out into a long line so he can roll under a bed.
在有一幕里，他把自己蜷成一个圈，像轮胎那样滚着走。在另一幕里，他把自己伸展成一根长线，这样他能在床底下滚动。
“A big part of my job is to go to a guy like Chris or Ricky and explain who the character is and their purpose in the story,” Mr. Scanlon said. “I’m the guy who knows the most about what the story needs. We have great artists who can design appealing characters. I let them know what they need to create and inspire them to create it.”
“我工作的一个重要部分是向克里斯或里基这样的人解释每个角色的特点以及他在故事里的用意，”斯坎隆说，“我最了解这个故事需要什么的人物。我们有伟大的艺术家，他们能设计出迷人的角色。我让他们知道需要创造什么样的角色，并启发他们去创造。”
Outside the Lines
弦外之音
When the Oozma Kappa members are under threat of arrest, Art screams out, “I can’t go back to jail!” One-liners like that abound, further complicating this character and what the audience does or doesn’t know about him.
当Oozma Kappa的成员有被逮捕的危险时，阿特尖叫道：“我不能回去坐牢！”像这样的俏皮话到处都是，使这个人物显得更加复杂，更加扑朔迷离。
This rough sketch, which Mr. Nierva drew by marker, was an early pass at trying to capture Art’s wacky but elusive nature.
涅尔瓦用记号笔画的这个粗糙的草图，是最早通过的造型，努力捕捉阿特古怪而难以捉摸的天性。
“I thought that he would be shedding all the time,” Mr. Nierva said, but added: “We went away from it because you don’t want him leaving this trail of hair everywhere. It’s technically a challenge.”
“我本来认为他应该是一直在掉毛，”涅尔瓦说，但是他补充说，“我们放弃了这一点，因为你不想让它到处留下毛发痕迹。从技术上讲，这是个难题。”
He said the technical department got a little nervous when that drawing came up. “Also, I was playing around with the hair tuft on his head, really pushing that even further.”
他说，当技术部看到那幅画后，他们有点紧张。“我还拿他头上那撮毛做文章，真的让它更难处理了。”
Final Shape Takes Form
最后成形
This painting, by the art director Dice Tsutsumi, is what the designers call a “color rough.” It is a pass at the final look of the character after it is fully sculptured in clay as a maquette. “Here, you would explore color and fur,” Mr. Nierva said.
美术指导戴斯·堤(Dice Tsutsumi)画的这幅画是设计师们所说的“粗糙色彩版”。它是角色最后定型时的一个版本，完全用粘土做成雕塑，作为初步设计模型。“你要再研究一下颜色和毛发，”涅尔瓦说。
It was Mr. Tsutsumi’s idea to make Art purple, while the stripes came from Mr. Sasaki. “I remember wanting to do the striping to kind of feel like tube socks in a way,” Mr. Sasaki said. “So I incorporated that into his fur pattern.”
堤先生提议把阿特画成紫色的，而条纹的想法来自佐佐木。“我记得想做条纹是为了从某种角度看像无脚跟短筒袜，”佐佐木说，“所以我把条纹加到了毛发图案中。”
One feature that remained throughout the evolution of the design was Art’s giant mouth, which takes up much of his face. The team didn’t want the teeth to be sharp.
整个设计过程中唯一没有变的是阿特的大嘴，它占据了脸的很大一部分。创意团队不想让它的牙齿太锋利。
“We wanted them to feel a little less threatening and kind of inviting,” Mr. Sasaki said, explaining the rounded look they went with. “And we wanted to make them kind of offset, so he doesn’t have that divide of where the center teeth would be.”
“我们想让那些牙齿感觉不那么可怕，还有点可亲，”佐佐木这样解释这些牙齿圆圆的外形，“我们想让它们不那么对称，分不出哪个是中间那颗牙。”
A Monster on the Move
运动中的怪兽
In the movie, Art is heavy on fur, especially at the feet, with small mangled speckles of different colors in that fur. His stance, movement and arms had three inspirations.
在电影中，阿特毛发浓密，特别是脚上，毛上有不同颜色的小斑点。他的站姿、运动和胳膊有3个灵感来源。
One was the whimsical performance troupe Mummenschanz. “I showed Dan some YouTube videos and there was this particular performance with a person inside of a gigantic coiled tube,” Mr. Nierva said. “The tube was a character playing with a big ball.”
第一个灵感来源是异想天开的表演团体Mummenschanz。“我给丹看了YouTube上的一些视频，其中有一场表演，有一个人站在一个巨大的螺旋管里，”涅尔瓦说，“那个管子的形状是一个玩大球的人物。”
Another was the Muppets. Like those characters, Pixar wanted to make Art and the other monsters appealing, approachable and not too scary. The third was a “Saturday Night Live” sketch, featuring Chris Farleyas the motivational speaker Matt Foley who lives “in a van down by the river.”
另一个灵感来源是《布偶大电影》(Muppets)。像那些人物一样，皮克斯想让阿特和其他怪兽吸引人，可接近，不太可怕。第3个灵感来源是《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)的短剧里克里斯·法勒雅斯(Chris Farleyas)扮演的励志演说家马特·福利(Matt Foley)，他住在“河边的一个房车里”。
“It’s the way that Chris Farley stood,” Mr. Nierva said. “He would spread his legs wide and put his arms between his legs as he’s making his point. And we loved how that look felt.”
“是克里斯·法勒雅斯站立的姿势启发了我们，”涅尔瓦说，“他讲道理的时候，把两条腿分得很开，把手放在两腿之间。我们很喜欢那个形象给人的感觉。”