WASHINGTON — The angry allegation by the German government that the National Security Agency monitored the cellphone of Chancellor Angela Merkel may force President Obama into making a choice he has avoided for years between continuing the age-old game of spying on America’s friends and undercutting cooperation with important partners in tracking terrorists, managing the global economy and slowing Iran’s nuclear program.
华盛顿——德国政府怒指美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)曾监控德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机，此事有可能迫使奥巴马总统直面多年来一直在回避的一个抉择：是把监控美国的朋友这场持续已久的游戏继续下去，还是削弱与他们在追踪恐怖分子、管理全球经济、遏制伊朗核计划等方面的合作？
The pressure to make such a choice builds each day, as some the United States’ closest allies have demanded explanations from Washington after similar disclosures about the breadth and sophistication of American electronic spying. Inside the administration it has touched off behind-the-scenes recriminations between the White House and the intelligence agencies over how much detail was given to White House officials about which world leaders are being monitored.
有关美国电子监控活动广度和复杂度的信息一经披露，美国最亲密的盟友们纷纷要求华盛顿方面做出解释。因此，做出抉择的压力与日俱增。在奥巴马政府内部，这种压力已经引发了白宫和情报部门暗地里的相互指责，其焦点在于，关于哪些世界领导人受到监控的细节，情报部门向白宫官员通报了多少。
“This was colossally bad judgment — doing something because you can, instead of asking if you should,” said one career American official with long experience in Europe. A senior administration official declined to say what Mr. Obama knew or did not know about monitoring of Ms. Merkel’s phone, but said the president “doesn’t think we are in the right place.”
“这是一个极为恶劣的错误判断——仅仅因为能做到某件事你就去做了，却没问问是否应该这样做。”一位在欧洲有长期工作经历的美国公务员说。至于奥巴马对默克尔的手机被监控一事了解或者不了解哪些情况，政府的一名高级官员拒绝置评，但他表示，总统“认为我们做得不对”。
The tension with Germany built last week after German officials were given evidence of the cellphone monitoring by Der Spiegel, the German weekly magazine. The first protests to Washington came in an angry phone call to Susan Rice, the president’s national security adviser, from her German counterpart, Christoph Heusgen.
德国《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)上周把默克尔的手机受到监控的证据交给该国官员之后，美德关系就开始紧张。默克尔负责国家安全事务的助手克里斯托弗·豪斯根(Christoph Heusgen)向奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·赖斯(Susan Rice)打了一通愤怒的电话，这次通话带来了对华盛顿方面的第一轮抗议。
During the call, according to German officials, Ms. Rice insisted that Mr. Obama did not know about the monitoring of Ms. Merkel’s phone, and said it was not currently happening, and would not in the future. But according to American officials familiar with the call, Ms. Rice would not acknowledge that the monitoring took place, even though she did not dispute the evidence the Germans had provided to her, which stretched back into the administration of President George W. Bush.
德国官员透露，赖斯在电话中坚称，奥巴马对监控默克尔的手机一事毫不知情，还表示这样的事现在没有进行，将来也不会发生。但据了解通话内容的美国官员透露，赖斯不肯承认对默克尔的手机进行过监控，不过她并没有对德国提交给她的证据表示异议，这些证据一直追溯到了前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)主政的时代。
If Ms. Rice’s contention that the president was unaware of the monitoring is correct, it raises the question of why he was not alerted — especially after tensions rose earlier this year, following the first revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, about American spying operations in Germany. Mr. Obama addressed those concerns at length during a visit to Germany.
假如赖斯关于奥巴马总统对监控毫不知情的表述是准确的，那就提出了这样一个问题，为什么他没能得到警示？尤其是在国家安全局(NSA)承包商前雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)今年早些时候揭露了美国在德国的间谍活动，已经令两国关系日趋紧张之后。奥巴马曾在访德期间大费周章地应对此事引发的疑虑。
There is little new in spying among allies: the oft-quoted line from Secretary of State Henry Stimson that “Gentlemen do not read each other’s mail” was barely true when he uttered it in 1929, and Mr. Stimson himself later oversaw the breaking of codes during World War II.
针对盟国搞间谍活动不是什么新鲜事。“绅士不拆阅彼此的信件”，美国前国务卿亨利·L·史汀生(Henry L.Stimson)在1929年说的这句话经常被人引用，但这话在当时就并不成立，而史汀生本人后来曾在二战期间负责密码的破译工作。
But the sentiment is particularly potent in the case of a country like Germany, which has been critical for a number of American intelligence operations. The BND, Germany’s main intelligence agency, has pursued suspected terrorist cells and was critical to extracting information from an Iranian scientist whose computer hard drive revealed documents strongly suggesting Iran was working on the design of a nuclear warhead. It played a supporting role in trying to cripple Iran’s nuclear enrichment program, through the use of a cyberweapon.
但德国在美国的许多情报活动中，一直担任着关键角色。对这样一个国家，监控事件所引发的情绪尤为强烈。作为德国的主要情报机构，德国联邦情报局(BND)一直在追踪涉嫌从事恐怖主义活动的团伙。此外，在从一名伊朗科学家的电脑中搜集信息的行动中，BND也起到过关键作用。从这名科学家的电脑硬盘中发现的文件，以很强的说服力表明伊朗正在设计核弹头。BND也运用网络武器，在竭力重创伊朗核浓缩计划的行动中起到了配合作用。
A spokesman for the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper, declined to comment about any American discussions with the Germans about the intelligence relationship between the two countries.
美国国家情报总监詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper)的发言人，拒绝就任何美德之间关于两国情报关系的讨论发表评论。
In the past, Germany has pushed for an agreement similar to the understanding that the United States has with Britain and three other English-speaking allies that prohibits spying on one another.
美国和英国，以及其他三个讲英语的盟国之间有一项协议，禁止针对彼此实施间谍活动。过去德国曾极力要求与美国达成类似的协议。
Until now the Obama administration has been loath to broker such a deal with the Germans, who have publicly stated their interest in a nonspying pact, partly because other nations would demand a similar arrangement. But the revelations of recent days have so strained relations between Washington and Berlin that that calculus appears may be changing — especially because American officials have difficulty making a credible case for what the United States has to gain from spying on senior German officials.
德国曾公开表达过，有意达成互不开展间谍活动的协议。但到目前为止，奥巴马政府一直不愿就签订这样一项协议与德国人展开谈判，部分原因在于担心其他国家也会要求做类似的安排。但近日披露出来的信息令华盛顿和柏林方面的关系变得如此紧张，以至于政治考量或许正在变化。尤为关键的原因是，对于自己究竟想通过监控德国高官获得什么东西，美国难以给出合理的解释。
Senior officials administration officials say the National Security Agency, in its push to build a global data-gathering network that can reach into any country, has rarely  weighed the long-term political costs of some of its operations. Whether to make those kinds of reciprocal agreements with allies is among the questions two different administration reviews of N.S.A. spying practices hope to address.
奥巴马政府的高级官员表示，NSA极力推动建立一个可以深入任何国家的全球信息搜集网，在此过程中很少权衡过自己的某些行动带来的长期政治成本。是否与盟国签订上述互惠协定，也是奥巴马政府对NSA的间谍行动分别开展的两次审查中，希望解答的问题之一。