The condom of the future might be made of cow tendon or fish skin. It might have “shape memory” to instantly mold to a specific man. Or it might come with pull tabs so a man could slip it on with little fuss.
未来的安全套可能会是用牛筋或鱼皮做成的。它也许会有“形状记忆”，能立即贴合某位男性的身体。或者它可能会附有一个拉环，因此不费什么事就能戴上。
Those ideas are among the winners announced Wednesday by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation of a contest to create a condom that men would actually use. The contest, the foundation said, aimed to decrease unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases with “a next-generation condom that significantly preserves or enhances pleasure.”
周三，比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation)举办的一场竞赛宣布了结果，这些就是其中的部分获奖创意。这场竞赛的目的是为了发明男士乐用的安全套。基金会说，这是为了生产出“能够显著保留或增加快感的下一代安全套”，以减少意外怀孕的几率和性病的传播。
The foundation received 812 applications, chose 11 and awarded the winners $100,000 each. They could receive up to $1 million after they develop the ideas. Steven Buchsbaum, a Gates Foundation official, said winners ranged from a longtime condom manufacturer in India to American chemical engineers to British design consultants whose previous work included vacuum cleaners.
基金会共收到812个作品，从中挑选了11个，并奖励每位获奖者10万美元（约合61万元人民币）。如果他们将创意开发出来，最多可获得100万美元的资金。盖茨基金会官员史蒂文·布克斯鲍姆(Steven Buchsbaum)表示，获奖者中有长期生产安全套的印度商人、美国化学工程师，还有以前设计过吸尘器的英国设计顾问。
Many ideas involved materials besides latex, aiming for thinner, stronger, less constricting condoms with better sensation, “reducing the loving distance between partners, so they will be more close,” said Dr. Papa Salif Sow, a Gates senior program officer. Other ideas focused on “how to improve the donning,” he said, because “in sub-Saharan Africa, sex is basically done with low light and it might be very difficult to see the direction of the condom.”
许多创意都没有使用乳胶作为材料，目的是为了使安全套更薄、更结实、更少束缚感，进而快感更多，“减少伴侣之间爱的距离，所以他们会更亲密，”盖茨基金会高级项目官员帕帕·萨利夫·索乌(Papa Salif Sow)博士说道。其他一些创意则集中于“增加穿戴的便利性”，他说，因为“在撒哈拉以南非洲地区，性事基本上都在光线极暗的情况下完成，可能会很难看清安全套的操作。”
Winners include the “ultrasensitive reconstituted collagen condom” proposed by Apex Medical Technologies in San Diego. Apex’s president, Mark McGlothlin, said his product would feel like skin and be made from collagen fibers from cows’ Achilles tendons or possibly fish skin.
获胜作品中有圣迭戈埃佩克斯医疗科技公司(Apex Medical Technologies)提交的“超敏感再造胶原质安全套”。埃佩克斯的总裁马克·麦格洛思林(Mark McGlothlin)说，这款产品的触感将仿若肌肤，会使用从牛跟腱或鱼皮中提取的胶原纤维做材料。
“They’re unbelievably strong,” said Mr. McGlothlin, who currently gets beef tendon from a Vietnamese grocery. “I could yank all day and not break this thing.”
“它们强韧得难以置信，”麦格洛思林说道，他目前从一家越南生鲜杂货店购买牛筋。“我可以使劲扯它一整天也不会破。”
A “wrapping condom” proposal by the California Family Health Council in Los Angeles will build on a version manufactured in Colombia, made of polyethylene plastic that “clings like Saran Wrap rather than squeezes,” according to Ron Frezieres, the council’s vice president for research. It would come in three-packs the size of a credit card and almost as thin, he said, and, like another grant winner called the Rapidom, would have pull tabs to “keep you from being confused about which way to put it on,” Mr. Frezieres added.
洛杉矶的加利福尼亚家庭健康委员会(California Family Health Council)提交的创意名为“包裹式安全套”，是在哥伦比亚生产的一款产品的基础上设计的，由聚乙烯塑料制成，“贴合得就好像是保鲜膜，而不会有挤压感”，委员会负责研究事务的副主席罗恩·弗雷泽雷斯(Ron Frezieres)说。他说，这款产品的包装将是三个一盒，大小约和信用卡差不多，薄厚度也差不多，而且和另一个获奖创意快速套(Rapidom)一样，将会附有拉环，这样“就不会搞错该从哪面儿戴了”，弗雷泽雷斯补充说。
At least two winners will work with polyurethane, including Richard Chartoff, a University of Oregon chemical engineer, who foresees a “one-size-fits-all” design having shape memory to “fit like an extra layer of skin, conforming to the shape.” He is also considering adding nanoparticles containing antiviral or antibacterial drugs, and, more prosaically, offering different colors.
至少两位获奖者将使用聚氨酯材料，其中包括俄勒冈大学(University of Oregon)研究化学工程的理查德·查托夫(Richard Chartoff)。他预见会有一个“适合所有人的均码”设计，具有形状记忆功能，会“贴合得就好像另一层皮肤，与形状完全一致”。他还在考虑要附加一层包含抗病毒或抗菌药的纳米颗粒，相对平淡无奇的是，该产品会提供不同的颜色。
Stephen Ward, a Gates Foundation program officer, said that among the problems tackled were “improving lubrication, internal friction, external friction, heat transfer.”
盖茨基金会的一位项目官员斯蒂芬·沃德(Stephen Ward)说，设计竞赛要解决的问题有“润滑的改善、内摩擦、外摩擦和热传递 ”。
Two or more grantees might be teamed to make one design, he added. “There’s not one magic bullet,” he said. “The idea is making them easier for people to use in the moment, in the dark, whatever situation they’re in.”
他还说，有可能两位或更多的获奖者会组合起来开发一项设计。“不存在一颗魔术子弹，”他说。“我们的目的是，在人们需要时、在黑暗中，还是在任何情况下，人们都能更方便地使用。”