SEATTLE — There’s a question being whispered around Microsoft’s sprawling suburban campus: What will Bill Gates do? Mr. Gates’s role at Microsoft has been a source of wide fascination since he left his day-to-day responsibilities in 2008. But interest in it has grown in the past few years as Microsoft has stumbled, and it intensified sharply in the weeks since Steven A. Ballmer announced he would be retiring as Microsoft’s chief executive in the next year.
西雅图——在微软位于郊外的蔓延园区内，人们正低声谈论着一个问题：比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)将要干什么？自从2008年他不再负责公司的日常事务以来，盖茨在微软的角色就一直是人们津津乐道的话题。但是由于微软的不景气，对这个问题的兴趣在过去几年中越来越大，在史蒂文·A·鲍尔默(Steven A.Ballmer)宣布他将在明年退休、不再担任微软首席执行官后的几周里，人们对这个问题的兴趣急剧上升。
Many employees and investors fondly remember the company’s heyday under Mr. Gates, a towering figure in the tech industry who built Microsoft into a dominant force. And some Microsoft employees say they have noticed Mr. Gates around the company’s campus in Redmond, Wash., more often since Mr. Ballmer’s announcement, leading to speculation — perhaps mixed with a dash of hope — that he might want to assume a bigger role and return the company to its past heights.
很多员工和投资者深情地牢记着盖茨领导时微软的全胜时期，这位技术行业的杰出人物把微软打造成了行业中的主导力量。有些微软员工说，他们注意到盖茨出入于在华盛顿州雷德蒙德的微软园区内，尤其是在鲍尔默宣布退休以后，盖茨出现的次数更加频繁，这引起人们猜测（可能或许带有一点希望），他可能会重新出任重要职位，来重振微软。
“It’s impossible to walk away from something that you have shaped and led to that extent, and with which you are so personally identified,” Ed Lazowska, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington, said of Mr. Gates. “I think there’s zero chance that he disengages — if anything, I bet he engages more.”
华盛顿大学(University of Washington)计算机科学系教授爱德·拉佐斯卡(Ed Lazowska)在提到盖茨时说，“不可能会离开你倾力打造并把它发展到那个程度的东西，而且那东西与你个人具有如此高的认同。我认为他脱手的可能性为零，如果要我做任何猜测的话，我打赌他会更多地插手进来。”
Whatever his future duties, Mr. Gates already has a strong hand in deciding the company’s direction. He remains Microsoft’s chairman and its largest individual shareholder, and he is one of four members of the committee leading the search for the next chief executive. His opinion in the selection process will hold more sway than anyone else’s.
不管他将来的责任是什么，盖茨在决定公司的方向上已经具有很强的影响力。他依然是微软的董事长，也是其最大的个人股东，他还是负责寻找下任首席执行官人选的四人委员会成员之一。他的意见在选择过程中将比任何人的都重要。
Despite the speculation, it remains a long shot that Mr. Gates will take on bigger day-to-day duties at the company. According to several people close to him, who spoke on the condition that they not be named because their discussions were private, Mr. Gates has no intention of leaving his philanthropic career to work again full time at Microsoft. Jon Pinette, a spokesman for Mr. Gates, declined to comment.
虽然有各种各样的猜测，但盖茨在微软承担起更多日常事务的可能性很小。据一些接近他的人称，盖茨无意抽身慈善事业全职回归微软，由于是私下讨论，这些人要求不具名。盖茨的发言人乔恩·皮内特 (Jon Pinette)婉言拒绝对此发表评论。
Still, the narrative of the rescuing founder remains a powerful one, especially since Steven P. Jobs, a rival of Mr. Gates’s, returned to Apple and transformed it into one of the world’s most profitable companies. Microsoft has struggled in important new markets in recent years, particularly with mobile phones and tablets, leading some executives in the tech industry to call for Mr. Gates to return as chief executive.
尽管如此，创始人出来拯救的故事仍然很有吸引力，尤其是自从盖茨的对手、史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P.Jobs)重返苹果公司，并将它转变成世界上一家最赚钱的公司以来。微软最近几年来一直在重要的新市场上挣扎，特别是在移动电话以及平板电脑等产品上，这导致一些技术行业高管呼吁盖茨重新出任首席执行官。
The search for Mr. Ballmer’s replacement is still in its early stages. Although the process could suddenly accelerate, the board is in no hurry to act before the end of the year, said a person briefed on the succession plans.
寻找接替鲍尔默的人的工作依然处在早期。一名了解继任计划的人说，尽管这个程序有突然加快的可能，董事会在年底前不会急于行动。
According to this and another person with knowledge of the Microsoft’s chief executive search, the list of executives being considered for the job includes Alan Mulally, the chief executive of Ford; Paul Maritz, a former Microsoft executive who now leads a cloud technology company called Pivotal; Tony Bates, a current Microsoft executive who came to the company through its acquisition of Skype; and Stephen Elop, the Nokia executive who has already announced his intention to return to Microsoft once the company completes its acquisition of Nokia’s phone business.
根据这位人士以及另一位知悉微软寻找首席执行官情况的人的消息，考虑中的高管人选包括福特公司(Ford)首席执行官阿兰·穆拉里(Alan Mulally)，微软前高管、现掌管云技术公司Pivotal的鲍尔·马里兹(Paul Maritz)，通过收购Skype进入微软的高管托尼·贝茨(Tony Bates)，以及诺基亚(Nokia)高管斯特芬·埃洛普(Stephen Elop)，他已宣布一旦微软完成了收购诺基亚的手机业务，将会重返微软。
Frank Shaw, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment on potential candidates for chief executive.
微软发言人弗兰克·肖(Frank Shaw)拒绝对可能的首席执行官候选人发表评论。
Among outsiders, Mr. Mulally of Ford is a favorite because of his success in reviving Ford without the help of the government bailout and bankruptcy filing used by the other two Detroit automakers, General Motors and Chrysler.
在微软以外的人选中，福特公司的穆拉里最受欢迎，他成功地重振了福特公司，没有靠政府的救援或是动用破产程序，不像底特律的另外两家汽车制造商：通用汽车(General Motors)和克莱斯勒(Chrysler)那样。
Mr. Mulally was unavailable for comment about whether he has interest in the Microsoft job. He does not have a software background, which has given some current and former Microsoft employees pause because they believe the company needs a leader with a strong technology vision. Another concern is Mr. Mulally’s age, 68, which suggests he may not be in the job for long.
没有联系到穆拉里，就他对去微软工作是否有兴趣发表评论。他没有软件行业背景，这让一些微软以前和现在的员工担心，因为他们认为公司需要一个有很强的技术远见的领导。而另一个担心是穆拉里68岁的年龄，这暗示着他可能在这个职位工作不了很长时间。
Mr. Mulally has consistently said he will stay as chief executive at Ford at least through 2014. Ford’s board is set to meet on Wednesday, and its directors may be under pressure to address the speculation before it becomes a distraction.
穆拉里一直称，他在福特公司担任首席执行官至少要到2014年底。福特公司董事会将在周三开会，董事们可能面临就目前的猜测发表评论的压力，免得这个问题让人分心。
“There is no change to what we announced last November,” said Jay Cooney, a Ford spokesman. “Alan is absolutely focused on continuing to make progress on the One Ford plan.”
福特发言人杰伊·库尼(Jay Cooney)说，“我们去年11月宣布的计划没有改变。阿兰正在绝对专心地继续推动‘一个福特’(One Ford)计划。”
No talk about Microsoft’s future gets very far before Mr. Gates’s name is mentioned. Long the face of the company and one of the world’s richest people, Mr. Gates turned his attention to philanthropy in 2008, focusing much of his efforts on education and global health challenges like the fight against H.I.V.
对微软未来的讨论进行不了多久，就会提到盖茨的名字。他一直都是微软公司的形象，也是世界上最富有的人之一，他在2008年转去投身慈善事业，将大部分注意力放在教育、以及应接像艾滋病这样的全球健康挑战上。
He has significantly reduced his holdings in the company in recent years, putting much of the money toward his philanthropy. But he still owns 4.52 percent of Microsoft’s stock, worth about $12.8 billion, more than any other individual shareholder. A decade ago, he held 10.75 percent.
最近几年，他大幅减持自己在微软的股份，将大部分出售股份得到的钱用于慈善事业。但他依然持有微软公司4.52%的股份，价值128亿美元（约合783.4亿元人民币），这高于其他任何一位个人股东。十年前，他拥有10.75%的股份。
Along the way, he has remained engaged in discussions about products at Microsoft, meeting frequently with executives from the company. Typically, he takes product briefings from Microsoft executives at his personal offices in Kirkland, a Seattle suburb a short drive from Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, people with knowledge of the meetings said. These meetings can happen once a week or less, depending on his travel schedule for his philanthropic duties and the flow of Microsoft product development.
在减少持股的同时，他依然参与微软的产品讨论，频繁与公司高管开碰面会。通常，他是在自己位于西雅图郊区柯克兰的私人办公室里听微软高管做产品介绍，柯克兰距离微软公司位于雷德蒙德的总部没有多少车程，一些知晓这些碰面会的人说。这种碰面会可能是一周一次或更频繁，取决于他慈善事业的日程和微软产品开发的情况。
At the product meetings, he has met with managers of the Windows, Bing search and Office products. He is considered a “fresh set of eyes” whose input is valued by Microsoft executives, one person familiar with the meetings said.
在有关产品的碰面会上，他与Windows、“必应”(Bing)搜索以及Office产品的经理见面。一名熟悉这些碰面会的人说，大家觉得盖茨能提供“一种新眼光”，微软的高管很重视他的意见。
For reasons that are unclear, Mr. Gates showed up for a handful of product briefings on the company’s campus in the weeks after Mr. Ballmer’s resignation was announced. Mr. Shaw of Microsoft said the amount of time Mr. Gates was spending with Microsoft employees had not changed meaningfully.
不知道是什么原因，在鲍尔默宣布退休之后的几周中，盖茨来到公司园区内参加了几次公司的产品碰面会。微软发言人肖说，盖茨花在与微软员工一起的时间没有实质性的变化。
“Bill’s overall engagement with Microsoft product and engineering teams has remained consistent since he transitioned to his current role,” Mr. Shaw said.
肖说，“比尔与微软产品和工程师团队接触的时间，在他转到目前的事业上之后一直没有变化。”
There is a faction of Microsoft investors and former employees that thinks the company needs less, not more, of Mr. Gates. As chairman, these people believe, Mr. Gates deserves equal blame for Microsoft’s travails in recent years.
有一部分微软的投资者以及前员工认为公司不是更多地需要、而是更少地需要盖茨。这些人认为，作为公司的董事长，盖茨对微软近年来的困境负有同等负责。
Last week, news reports surfaced that three unnamed shareholders had begun pressing the Microsoft board for Mr. Gates to leave as chairman because they believed he would be an impediment to strategy changes by the new chief executive.
上周，新闻媒体曝料称，三名没有透露姓名的股东已开始向微软董事会施加压力，迫使盖茨离开董事长的职位，因为他们认为他会成为新任首席执行官改变策略的绊脚石。
Any such push is very unlikely to succeed in forcing Mr. Gates to distance himself from the company, according to several people who know Mr. Gates and the dynamics of the board. Last Thursday, the Microsoft board recommended Mr. Gates’ re-election as a director, according to a company filing with securities regulators.
了解盖茨和董事会内部情况的几位知情人士表示，任何这种努力都不太可能会成功迫使盖茨远离公司。公司向证券监管部门提交的一份文件显示，上周四，微软董事会推荐盖茨重新当选董事。
Mr. Gates’s future role will partly be up to the new chief executive. Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, senior associate dean at the Yale School of Management, said it would be important for Microsoft’s new leader to keep Mr. Gates around.
盖茨未来的角色将部分取决于微软的新首席执行官。耶鲁大学管理学院资深副院长杰弗里·A·索南菲尔德(Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld)说，对微软的新领导人来说，把盖茨留在身边很重要。
“I think it’s hugely positive,” he said about Mr. Gates’s presence at the company. “You can have a wise elder statesperson who is very inspirational if they know the boundaries.”
在提到盖茨在公司的出现时，他说，“我认为这极为有利。如果他们能够正确把握的话，他们会得到一位明智的、德高望重的政治家。”
Among many aspiring techies, he still remains an inspirational, Walt Disney-like figure seen as a founding father of the industry.
在许多雄心勃勃的技术人员眼里，盖茨仍是一位励志人物，就像沃特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)一向被视作行业之父那样。
“When I was growing up, Bill Gates was my hero,” Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, said in a speech at a conference last month. He added: “I think he’s one of the greatest visionaries that our industry has ever had.”
“我长大的时候，比尔·盖茨一直是我心目中的英雄，”Facebook的首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)上个月在一次会议上发表演讲时说。他还说：“我认为，他是我们这个行业有史以来最伟大的高瞻远瞩者之一。”