I HAVE visited Iraq five times since 2007, and I have seen nothing like the suffering I’m witnessing now.
2007年到现在，我去过伊拉克五次，从未见过像现在这样苦痛的景象。
I came to visit the camps and informal settlements where displaced Iraqis and Syrian refugees are desperately seeking shelter from the fighting that has convulsed their region.
我访问过难民营和非正式定居点，那里居住着流离失所的伊拉克人和叙利亚难民。他们逃离战火纷飞的家乡，绝望地寻觅栖身之所。
In almost four years of war, nearly half of Syria’s population of 23 million people has been uprooted. Within Iraq itself, more than two million people have fled conflict and the terror unleashed by extremist groups. These refugees and displaced people have witnessed unspeakable brutality. Their children are out of school, they are struggling to survive, and they are surrounded on all sides by violence.
叙利亚有2300万人口，持续了近四年的战争导致近一半人口背井离乡。在伊拉克本国，有两百万人逃离冲突和极端组织的恐怖统治。这些难民和流离失所者都目睹过无可言喻的暴行。孩子失学，大人艰难求生，被四面八方的暴力围困着。
For many years I have visited camps, and every time, I sit in a tent and hear stories. I try my best to give support. To say something that will show solidarity and give some kind of thoughtful guidance. On this trip I was speechless.
这些年来，我探访过很多难民营，每一次我都坐在帐篷里，聆听他们的故事。然后尽我所能地向他们提供支持。对他们说一些表示休戚与共的话语，给予他们一些贴心的指导。但是这一次，我说不出话来。
What do you say to a mother with tears streaming down her face who says her daughter is in the hands of the Islamic State, or ISIS, and that she wishes she were there, too? Even if she had to be raped and tortured, she says, it would be better than not being with her daughter.
当一位母亲泪流满面地说，她女儿落入了伊斯兰国（Islamic State，或称ISIS）之手，她希望自己也在那里时，你能说些什么呢？她说，即便自己肯定会遭到强奸和折磨，也总比和女儿分开强。
What do you say to the 13-year-old girl who describes the warehouses where she and the others lived and would be pulled out, three at a time, to be raped by the men? When her brother found out, he killed himself.
当一个13岁的女孩，描述她和其他女孩一起住在仓库里，每一次会有三个人被拉出去，遭到男性强奸时，你能说些什么呢？她的兄弟得知此事后自杀了。
How can you speak when a woman your own age looks you in the eye and tells you that her whole family was killed in front of her, and that she now lives alone in a tent and has minimal food rations?
当一个和我年纪相仿的女人，看着你的眼睛对你说，全家人当着她的面被杀害，现在她孤身住在帐篷里，靠最低口粮生活时，你能说些什么呢？
In the next tent, I met a family of eight children. No parents. Father killed. Mother missing, most likely taken. The 19-year-old boy is the sole breadwinner. When I comment that it is a lot of responsibility for his age, he just smiles and puts his arm around his young sister. He tells me he is grateful he has the opportunity to work and help them. He means it. He and his family are the hope for the future. They are resilient against impossible odds.
住在隔壁一个帐篷的这家人有八个孩子，却没有父母。父亲被杀害。母亲失踪，极有可能是被掳走了。家中唯一的经济支柱是一个19岁的男孩。当我说，对于他这样的年纪，这个责任负担非常沉重时，他只是面带笑容，用胳膊搂住了妹妹。他告诉我，他很庆幸自己有工作的机会，可以帮助家人。这是他的由衷之言。他和家人是未来的希望。巨大的困难压不垮他们。
Nothing prepares you for the reality of so much individual human misery: for the stories of suffering and death, and the gaze of hungry, traumatized children.
你永远无法做好心理准备，来面对如此巨大的个人痛苦：这些与苦难和死亡有关的经历，这些忍饥挨饿、饱受创伤的孩子投来的目光。
Who can blame them for thinking that we have given up on them? Only a fraction of the humanitarian aid they need is being provided. There has been no progress on ending the war in Syria since the Geneva process collapsed 12 months ago. Syria is in flames, and areas of Iraq are gripped by fighting. The doors of many nations are bolted against them. There is nowhere they can turn.
他们以为已经被我们放弃，谁又能责怪他们这么想呢？他们获得的人道主义援助，和他们所需的相差悬殊。自从12个月前日内瓦会谈破裂以来，结束叙利亚战争的努力就没有取得任何进展。叙利亚的战火在熊熊燃烧，伊拉克的很多地区也沦为战区。很多国家向他们关闭了大门。他们无处可去。
Syria’s neighbors have taken in nearly four million Syrian refugees, but they are reaching their limits. Syrian refugees now make up 10 percent of Jordan’s population. In Lebanon, every fourth person is now a Syrian. They need food, shelter, education, health care and work. This means fewer resources available for local people. Far wealthier countries might crack under these pressures.
叙利亚的邻国已经接受了将近400万叙利亚难民，但它们已经快达到极限。叙利亚难民目前占约旦人口的10％。在黎巴嫩，每四个人当中就有一个叙利亚人。他们需要食物、住所、教育、医疗保健和工作。这意味着可供当地人享受的资源会变少。在这些压力之下，比它们更富裕的国家也可能会崩溃。
Stories of terror, barrel bombs and massacres have acquired an awful familiarity. There is a great temptation to turn inward, to focus on our own troubles.
关于恐惧、油桶炸弹和大屠杀的报道已经司空见惯。现在有一种把目光转向国内的强烈势头，要开始关注我们自己的问题。
But the plain fact is we cannot insulate ourselves against this crisis. The spread of extremism, the surge in foreign fighters, the threat of new terrorism — only an end to the war in Syria will begin to turn the tide on these problems. Without that, we are just tinkering at the edges.
但是，这里有个明确的事实，即我们无法置身于这场危机之外。极端主义的蔓延、外国武装分子人数的激增、新恐怖主义的威胁——只有结束叙利亚的战争，才能开始扭转这些问题的走向。如果不这样，我们就只是在做些边边角角的修补。
At stake are not only the lives of millions of people and the future of the Middle East, but also the credibility of the international system. What does it say about our commitment to human rights and accountability that we seem to tolerate crimes against humanity happening in Syria and Iraq on a daily basis?
处于危险之中的，不仅是数以百万计的人们的生命和中东的未来，还包括国际体系的信誉。如果我们似乎能容忍每天发生在叙利亚和伊拉克的人道主义罪行，那么我们保护人权的承诺和责任又该作何解释？
When the United Nations refugee agency was created after World War II, it was intended to help people return to their homes after conflict. It wasn’t created to feed, year after year, people who may never go home, whose children will be born stateless, and whose countries may never see peace. But that is the situation today, with 51 million refugees, asylum-seekers or displaced people worldwide, more than at any time in the organization’s history.
联合国难民署在第二次世界大战之后成立，其目的在于帮助人们在冲突之后重返家园。当初之所以成立这个机构，并不是为了年复一年地为那些可能永远回不了家的人提供食物，这些人的子女可能在出生时没有国籍，他们的国家可能永远也看不到和平。但是，目前的情况正是如此，全世界共有5100万名难民、寻求庇护者和流离失所者，超过了该组织历史上所有时期。