Sergey Ponomarev, 31, is a freelance photographer covering the conflict in Ukraine on assignment for The New York Times. He grew up in Moscow and also in Ireland, where his father worked as a journalist for Itar-Tass. He previously worked for The Associated Press. He spoke to James Estrin from Crimea on Sunday evening Eastern time. The conversation has been edited. 
31岁的谢尔盖·波诺马廖夫(Sergey Ponomarev)是《纽约时报》委派报道乌克兰冲突的一名自由摄影师。他在莫斯科和爱尔兰长大，他的父亲曾在爱尔兰工作，是塔斯社(Itar-Tass)的一名记者。此前，波诺马廖夫曾为美联社(The Associated Press)工作。美国东部时间上周日晚，他在克里米亚和詹姆斯·埃斯特林(James Estrin)进行了交谈。以下谈话已经过编辑。
Q. What did you see today?
问：你今天看到了什么？
A. I witnessed Russian troops surrounding a Ukrainian military base. They spoke with a commander and gave him an ultimatum that he needed to surrender and lay down arms. After he refused to do that, they waited for a while and then again asked him to come and meet with them. The Ukrainian commander came back and said that the problem is solved, there will be no war.
答：我看到俄罗斯军队包围了乌克兰的一处军事基地。他们和一名指挥官谈了话，还向后者发出最后通牒，要求后者投降，放下武器。遭到拒绝之后，他们等了一会儿，之后再次要求指挥官出来和他们谈话。那名乌克兰的指挥官又出来了，说问题已经解决，不会发生战争。
It seems both sides don’t want to break the fragile peace. But the Russians stayed outside of the base.
看起来，双方都不想破坏这种脆弱的和平。不过，俄罗斯人一直待在基地外边。
Q. When did you arrive in Crimea?
问：你是什么时候到克里米亚的？
A. It was four days ago.
答：四天前。
Q. Why did you go there?
问：你为什么会去那儿？
A. I just thought that the next news would happen there. I saw pictures on Twitter showing a crowd of about 30,000 gathered in Simferopol [the capital of Crimea]. I thought this is the story, because the new Ukrainian authorities are weak in the countryside so all those regions and people that have been trying to get away from Ukraine for ages will try to do that.
答：我只是觉得那里会有新闻。我在Twitter上看到了一些图片，图片显示大约有三万人在辛菲罗波尔［克里米亚首府］聚集起来。我觉得这就是新闻，因为乌克兰新政府在农村地区的力量非常薄弱，所以那些长期想脱离乌克兰的地区和民众会设法做到这一点。
I was in Simferopol visiting a friend when I was studying in university and also when I was with The Associated Press covering a joint Ukrainian and Russian Navy parade in 2011. This is a totally military city, where almost all of its citizens are somehow connected with the Navy. And almost all want to be part of Russia.
读大学的时候，2011年为美联社报道乌俄海军联合阅兵活动的时候，我都曾去辛菲罗波尔拜访朋友。这完全是一个军事城市，几乎所有居民都与海军存在某种程度的联系。几乎所有人都想成为俄罗斯的一部分。
I had a quiet day when I arrived on Feb. 26, nothing was going on and I took some pictures at the unfinished Yanukovych country house [a residence of the ousted president Viktor F. Yanukovych]. On the next day there were clashes between ethnic Russians and Tatars who are Muslims. There were 10,000 Tatars facing thousands of Russians, and they fought throughout the day. At the end of the day the Tatars who support Ukraine kicked out the Russians.Q.
2月26日，我在抵达当地时安静地度过了一天，那时没有发生任何事，我在尚未完工的亚努科维奇乡村别墅（被罢黜的总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇[Viktor F.Yanukovych]的住所）前拍了一些照片。第二天，俄罗斯族人和身为穆斯林的鞑靼人发生了冲突。当时有1万名鞑靼人面对着数千名俄罗斯人，他们打了一整天。当天快要结束时，支持乌克兰的鞑靼人赶走了俄罗斯人。
Do you speak Ukranian?
问：你会说乌克兰语吗？
A. I speak Russian with a Russian accent. The Russian language is very similar to Ukrainian. We use many of the same words with slightly different pronunciation and people can tell which region you are from by your pronunciation. Also, many Ukrainians are Russian speakers.
答：我说俄语，而且带有俄罗斯口音。俄语与乌克兰语非常相似。我们用的很多词都一样，只是发音略有不同，人们能够根据你的口音判断你来自哪个地区。而且很多乌克兰人都会讲俄语。
Q. How does that affect you in Crimea or Kiev?
问：这一点会在克里米亚或基辅对你产生什么影响？
A. This doesn’t affect me in Crimea at all because people are speaking with Muscovite accents, but I didn’t encounter any problems either in Kiev or Lviv in western Ukraine.
答：它没有在克里米亚对我产生任何影响，因为人们说话带有莫斯科口音，但我在基辅或者位于乌克兰西部的利沃夫也从没有遇到任何问题。
Q. In your email yesterday you said it was hard to figure out what was going on. You saw Russians soldiers today, but is it any clearer what’s going on?
问：你在昨天的电子邮件中说，很难弄清楚目前的状况。你今天也见到了俄罗斯士兵，那么你对目前的状况有更清晰的了解吗？
A. This is just a first step. If you deploy troops you need support and supplies, so we expect more troops will arrive.
答：这只是第一步。如果你在部署军队，就意味着你需要支持和补给，所以我们认为还会有更多军队来到这里。
Usually everything is predictable, but now it’s not predictable at all. We just wake up early in the morning, read the news and follow social networks and local broadcasts or bloggers and try to understand what we can do in this situation.
通常情况下，一切都是可以预料的，但是目前的情况根本无法预料。我们只会每天早晨很早醒来，读一读新闻，看看社交网络、当地广播或博客作者的文章，然后再去尝试理解我们在这种情况下能做些什么。
But we do not plan anything the day before because everything can change.
我们绝不会在头一天计划任何事，因为一切都可能发生变化。
The most unpredictable thing is army movements. You have no connection to them and they are not talking to anybody. They’re definitely the Russian army, but they’re not talking to anyone. They’re masked. They’re polite, but they are not explaining anything and there’s no official statements. You’re just witnessing silent, polite and heavily armed people guarding Parliament and then the next day they are surrounding the military base.
最难以预料的是军队的行动。你与他们没有任何联系，而且他们也不与任何人说话。他们绝对是俄罗斯军队，但是他们不与任何人说话。他们戴着面具。他们很客气，但是他们不会解释任何事情，而且也没有任何官方声明。你就只能看到沉默、客气和全副武装的人在保卫议会，然后他们次日便包围了军事基地。
Also, there are a number of local Russian people without any connections to them who are supporting them and think that the journalists are disturbing the soldiers from serving their duties.
同时，那里还有一些当地俄罗斯族人，他们与军队没有任何联系，但是他们支持军队，而且还认为记者在打扰士兵们执行任务。
Q. Have the local people been hostile to journalists?
问：当地人是否对记者充满敌意？
A. Not to me because I can speak Russian, but they were quite hostile to other foreign journalists and one of my good friends from the Netherlands was beaten yesterday.
答：因为我会说俄语，所以我没有感受到敌意，但是他们对其他外国记者的确怀有很大的敌意，我来自荷兰的一个好朋友昨天就遭到了殴打。
Q. So when did you first arrive in Ukraine to cover the unrest?
问：你第一次来乌克兰报道暴乱是什么时候？
A. I was covering Ukraine’s revolution almost since the very beginning. I came there in the beginning of December and stayed there for three weeks. After that I came back on Feb 18 when the fragile peace agreement between protesters and police was broken.
答：我几乎从一开始就在报道乌克兰革命。我12月初来到这里，然后待了3周。那次以后，2月18日，当抗议者与警方之间脆弱的和平协议破裂时，我又回到了这里。
I came to a city that I could not recognize, the whole downtown was in black smoke from burning tires. The protesters’ camp had shrunk and barricades were moved so close to the stage that I had a feeling that this might be a last night of Maidan. I arrived at the end of the day when a large force of police was storming the square and the camp.
我来到了一个完全认不出来的城市，整个市区因为轮胎燃烧而被浓重的烟雾笼罩。抗议者的营地范围缩小，路障也被移到了离台子很近的地方，我顿时觉得这可能是独立广场的最后一夜。我在当天快要结束时抵达，当时一大群警察正在对广场和营地发动猛攻。
But protesters managed to hold the police push and saved the camp. They urgently needed new forces to protect camp. And the forces started to come in the next few days.
但是抗议者挡住了警察的进攻，拯救了营地。他们迫切需要新的力量来保护营地。然后接下来的几天，支援力量就开始进驻此地。
Q. How about the day when so many protesters were killed?
问：有一天死了许多抗议者，当时的情况是怎样的？
A. I was on the front-line barricades on Feb. 20 when protesters suddenly broke through and rushed towards police lines. This was so sudden that the police didn’t manage to form proper lines or barriers to stop the protesters who quickly advanced up the street. They were almost in front of the retreating police vehicles and water cannon trucks.
答：2月20日，当时我正在前线的路障处，然后抗议者突然突破路障，冲向了警方的防线。事情发生的特别突然，警察还来不及组成适当的防线和屏障来阻止快速进入街道的抗议者。他们几乎来到了正在撤退的警车和高压水炮车前。
I shot this video and posted it on Instagram when they were approaching police lines. There’s just a few meters between them. Then I went downstairs to follow protesters – just a few minutes before snipers started to shoot protesters from a small tower nearby.
当他们接近警察防线时，我拍摄了这段视频，并把它放在了Instagram上。他们之间只有几米远的距离。然后我下楼跟着抗议者——仅仅几分钟后，狙击手就开始从附近的一座小塔上射击抗议者。
On the other side of the Independence Square, some 200 to 300 protesters also broke through police lines and were about to capture some 70 policemen.
在独立广场的另一边，有200到300名抗议者也突破了警方防线，即将俘虏大约70名警察。
I was witnessing so many people being killed. People were mourning and I found priests who are conducting services. From then until I left to Crimea three days later there were funerals and mourning all day.Q.
我亲眼目睹了很多人被杀害的场景。人们陷入悲痛之中，我看到了正在举行祭奠仪式的牧师。从那时起，一直到三天后我去往克里米亚的时候，那里一直在举行葬礼和悼念活动。
Do you remember what it was like to be walking among the bodies and photographing the priests?
问：你还记得一边在尸体中穿行，一边拍摄牧师是什么感觉吗？
A. Well, that was a mess because bodies were arriving every 5 or 10 minutes. I didn’t understand why this happened, why the snipers are shooting towards the protesters who had only clubs and shields. But I understood that after three months of standoff, both sides were angry at each other.
答：哦，当时一片混乱，因为每过5到10分钟，就会有尸体运来这里。我不明白为什么会发生这种事情，为什么狙击手要向只有棍棒和盾牌的抗议者开枪。但是我明白，经过三个月的僵持，双方对彼此都怀有怨气。
Q. How about when the government fell?
问：政府倒台时是什么情况？
A. In few next days the governmental compound looked like a desert, there were no policemen, and protesters with clubs, masks and shields started to fill the checkpoints and entrances to the administrative buildings.
答：就在几天的时间里，政府大楼变得像个荒漠，那里没有警察，检查站和行政办公楼的入口处开始挤满手持棍棒和盾牌、头戴面具的抗议者。
I think the first people who managed to stand in front of the residence were photographers. Everybody there was afraid of snipers. But we were curious and went to Parliament and found no police and then we went towards the residential administration and residential headquarters and we also found nothing.
我认为最先站在官邸前的人是摄影师。那里的每个人都害怕狙击手。但是我们感到好奇，我们去了议会，发现没有警察，我们随后走向总统办公厅和总统府，那里也是什么都没有。
Nobody stopped us. There were no police.
没人阻止我们。那里没有警察。
Q. That must have been pretty wild when you entered.
问：你进去的时候肯定非常可怕。
A. Well, it wasn’t so wild. I was with Yuri Kozyrev. We worked together during revolution in Libya and Kurdistan and he has witnessed much more than I have. He said that he had never seen a situation where people were not taking or breaking things, but just guarding and protecting them. The same happened in Yanukovych’s personal compounds. He lived like a king in luxury, but they were not taking or breaking anything – just protecting it from looters.
答：其实也没那么可怕。我当时和尤里·科济列夫(Yuri Kozyrev)在一起。我们在利比亚和库尔德斯坦革命时一起工作过，他见过的事情比我多。他说他从来没有见过当时的那种情况：人们没有取走或打碎东西，只是在守卫和保护它们。在亚努科维奇的私人住所时也是一样。他住得像个奢侈的国王，但是人们却没有拿东西或者破坏任何东西——只是在保护这些东西，防止它们被抢走。