Li Jinsheng, a massage center owner, was among the first blind people to take the “gaokao,” or nationwide university entrance examinations, after the government, in a major turnaround in April, allowed blind people to do so. But Mr. Li says he failed.
李金生是一家按摩中心的店主，他是首批参加高考（中国全国性大学入学考试）的盲人之一。4月，政府突然转变态度，允许盲人参加高考。但是李金生说他没过。
“It went badly,” he said by telephone from his home in Zhumadian in Henan Province on Tuesday. Then he hung up, apparently too upset to say more.
“考得很差，”他周二在自己位于河南省驻马店的家中通过电话表示。然后他挂断了电话，似乎因为过于难过而不愿再多说什么。
Chinese news media have been abuzz with the tale of Mr. Li, 46, who reportedly handed in mostly blank papers after the two-day examination last Saturday and Sunday taken by about 9 million high school students, unable to cope with the form of Braille it was presented in. Many people have been deeply unsympathetic, said his friend and supporter Huang Rui, a lawyer at the Boyang Law Firm in Zhengzhou, the provincial capital of Henan, and a disabled rights advocate.
中国媒体纷纷对46岁的李金生的故事进行了报道。据称，在上周六和周日举行的约有900万名高中生参加的考试中，他因为不能较好地阅读试卷上的盲文，基本交了白卷。他的朋友及支持者黄锐表示，许多人对这种情况都不表示同情。黄锐是河南省省会郑州的博阳律师事务所的一名律师，也是残疾人权益倡导者。
“They’re saying he brought disgrace on blind people, that it was a waste of state resources,” Mr. Huang said by telephone. “People have been very critical of him.”
“他们说他给盲人抹了黑，浪费了国家资源，”黄锐在电话中说，“人们对他的批评很激烈。”
“But I think he was a path breaker,” he said. “What we need now is many more people to carry forward what he started. Otherwise, handing in blank papers like that, well, he becomes a joke of history.”
“但是我认为他是一名先驱，”他说。“我们现在需要的就是有更多人来推动他所开创的事业。否则，像那样交白卷，他只会成为历史的笑话。”
In an profile in April, Mr. Li was jubilant, preparing to take the test and hoping to study law, after decades of being denied the chance. At the time, he said, “If I fail the exam, never mind, I just have to try.”
在4月的一次访谈中，李金生还很高兴。他当时正在准备考试，而且希望能学习法律。之前数十年，他一直没有这个机会。当时他说，“就算落榜也没关系，我一定要试试。”
Said Mr. Huang: “If he’d done well, he’d be everyone’s favorite now, there would be publicity about him and praise. But he didn’t, so he’s under a lot of pressure now.
黄锐说：“如果他考得不错，他就会被众人追捧，人们会宣传他、称赞他。但是他没考好，所以他现在的压力很大。
“Chinese people don’t look at things from a rights point of view. They look for the result. And a lot of people feel he’s made blind people lose face, including blind rights activists.
“中国人从来不从权利的角度看待事情。他们重视结果。很多人都觉得他给盲人丢了脸，其中还包括一些盲人维权活动人士。”
“I’d estimate only about 10 percent of people support him right now,” Mr. Huang said. “But I feel he’s a person who knows what’s right and what’s wrong. And he was brave to try this.”
“我认为现在只有大约10%的人支持他，”黄锐说，”但是我认为他是一个明辨是非的人。而且他还勇敢地进行了尝试。“
Disabled rights advocates have long argued that education for blind people in China is very poor, and have called on the government to improve it.
残疾人维权人士认为中国的盲人教育非常落后，他们一直呼吁政府改善这种状况。
Perhaps presaging Mr. Li’s experience, Mr. Huang warned at the time that it was good that the government was finally offering blind people an opportunity to take the examination, but that with the entire educational system for the blind “a blank page,” it was only the beginning of much-needed change to enable them to truly participate in society.
当时黄锐警告称，政府最终给盲人提供了参加高考的机会，这很好，但是由于整个盲人教育体系只是“一页白纸”，这个举措只是一个开端，要使盲人真正参与社会，还有需要做出许多改变。或许这番警告早已预示了李金生的处境。
The government’s about-face was abrupt, coming just two months before the examination, and contained in a document that ordered the change but didn’t spell out any special training or preparation courses for blind people who wanted to participate.
政府态度的转变很突然，高考前两个月才刚刚宣布这项决定。包含这个决定的文件命令有关部门做出改变，但是没有说要为想参加高考的盲人提供任何特殊培训或备考课程。
The document, “A Notice Regarding Doing the 2014 General Gaokao Work Well,” ordered education authorities across China to “actively take measures to offer disabled people equality in applying for and taking part in the university entrance examination. When blind people take the examination, they should offer them examination papers for the blind,” which could be in Braille or electronic form, and “offer the help of specialized staff.”
这份叫做“关于做好2014年普通高校招生工作的通知”的文件命令中国各地的教育部门“为残疾人平等报名参加考试提供便利。有盲人参加考试时，为盲人考生提供试卷”——盲文试卷或电子试卷，或者“由专门的工作人员予以协助”。
The paper Mr. Li faced was in Braille, said Mr. Huang, and he had trouble with it. On his Chinese language and literature paper, instead of answering the set questions, he wrote: “Please provide an electronic version of this paper,” according to Mr. Huang.
黄锐说，摆在李金生面前的试卷是盲文试卷，但是他不太会使用。黄锐说，在语文试卷上，李金生没有回答问题，而是写道：“请给我提供一份电子版试卷。”
“He found Braille difficult and had practiced on an electronic version. But to be honest, I’m not sure if he would have passed those ones either. His English is pretty nonexistent, and his math is not that great.”
“他觉得盲文很难，所以是用电子版进行练习的。但是老实说，我不确定用电子试卷考试，他能不能通过。他对英语几乎一窍不通，而且数学也不怎么好。”