On the subject of sex, a subject that makes so many stammer, clam up or crack wise, Esther Perel, a couples therapist and author, is uncommonly eloquent, even rhapsodic. That particular rhetorical gift is apparently in high demand: Last July, Ms. Perel gave an opening talk at Summit Outside, a three-day meeting of 900 entrepreneurs and creative types held on Powder Mountain in Eden, Utah.
“性”这个话题会让很多人吞吞吐吐、三缄其口或是顾左右而言他，然而情侣心理治疗师兼作家艾瑟·佩莱尔(Esther Perel)对此却极为健谈，甚至到了狂热的地步。人们显然非常需要她这种特别的修辞天赋：去年7月，佩莱尔女士在“户外峰会”(Summit Outside)上发表演讲，这个在犹他州的伊甸召开的会议为期三天，共有900名企业家和创意人士参与。
“Think of a moment when you have an experience of major adventure, of novelty, of surprise, of mystery, of risk,” Ms. Perel, 55, asked the audience, which was seated on a grassy lawn stretching out in front of the stage. “A moment perhaps where you express desires in your body that you usually don’t allow yourself to know.” Ms. Perel, a Belgian who speaks nine languages, has a French-sounding accent that implicitly seems to bolster her authority. A video of this event captured the response: At one point, a young man looked around nervously, as if he found the exercise uncomfortable, but some of the guests, their name tags hanging around their necks, closed their eyes, luxuriating in their moment of reflection.
“回想你曾参与伟大冒险的时刻，参与到一种新奇、惊喜、神秘或危险的事情中，”55岁的佩莱尔对坐在讲台前面的草坪上的观众们说，“在那一刻，你身体的哪一个部分表现出了欲望呢，可能是你平时不允许自己知道的那个地方吧。”佩莱尔是比利时人，会说九种语言，她的话带着一点法国口音，这似乎隐隐加强了她的权威。会议录像捕捉到了观众们的反应：在某个时刻，一个年轻男人紧张不安地东张西望，仿佛觉得不自在，但也有些脖子上挂着名字标牌的观众闭上了眼睛，任凭自己沉浸在回忆与思考之中。
Summit’s organizers knew that Ms. Perel’s talk, which addressed the paradox of wanting both adventure and security in monogamous relationships, went over well with the audience, which included gurus like the Zappos chief executive, Tony Hsieh, and the TED darling J R, a street artist and photographer. But they were nonetheless surprised when more than half the event’s 900 guests turned up the next morning to hear her talk on “Love, Sex and Power.” Ms. Perel ended up holding three additional workshops to meet the demand. “She started this trending conversation, and she also became the one to be around,” said Emily Greener, a founder of the Los Angeles-based nonprofit I Am That Girl, who attended the event. “There was a lot of, ‘Oh, I sat with Esther at dinner, and she said this.’ She became social capital.”
佩莱尔的讲话是关于一夫一妻制关系中的悖论——既渴求冒险，又渴望安全，峰会的组织者们知道这带给观众的效果很好，台下坐着的有很多导师级人物，比如Zappos的首席执行官谢家华，还有TED的宠儿——街头艺术家与摄影师J R。但是到了第二天，与会的900名宾客中有一多半都跑来听佩莱尔的讲座“爱、性与权力”，组织者们也为之震惊。最后，为满足宾客们的需要，佩莱尔增加了三场特别研讨会。“她开启了这场趋势讨论，她自己也成了其中的一部分，”与会者艾米莉·格林纳尔(Emily Greener)说，她是洛杉矶非营利组织“我是那个女孩”(I Am That Girl)的创始人。“有很多人说，‘啊，我和艾瑟共进晚餐，她说了什么什么。’她成了一种社交资本。”
Since 2006, when Ms. Perel published a best-selling book, “Mating in Captivity,” she has become a go-to speaker on sexuality and relationships in the world of couples therapy as well as in the luxury self-actualization set. She frequently runs discussions at resorts during events that the self-improvement mogul Tony Robbins holds for his Platinum Members, among the biggest donors to his foundation. This month, she spoke at Omega’s winter learning vacation in Costa Rica. Her 2013 TED talk, the “Secret to Desire in a Long Term Relationship,” had one million hits in the first two weeks it was posted, taking on an apparent epidemic of low-libido marriages in what is theoretically the least repressed era in modern history. (That may be part of the problem: “How can you desire what you already have?” Ms. Perel often asks in her talks.)
2006年，佩莱尔出版了畅销书《被束缚的交配》(Mating in Captivity)，自那以后，她就成了伴侣心理治疗与奢华自我改善界关于性爱与婚恋问题的顾问演讲者。她常常在自我改善界的大人物托尼·罗宾斯(Tony Robbins)为白金会员（他们都是他的基金会最大的赞助者）举办的活动期间举行座谈，地点往往都在风景胜地。这个月，她在欧米茄公司于哥斯达黎加举办的冬日学习假期中发言。2013年她在TED上的演讲题为“渴望长期亲密关系的秘密”，这个演讲在网上发表两星期，点击量就达到了100万次。如今的时代从理论上而言，是现代历史上对人们压抑最少的时代，她的演讲却直击这个时代里低性欲婚姻的通病——这或许正是问题的一部分：“你怎么能去渴望自己已经拥有的东西？”佩莱尔经常在她的讲座上这样发问。
Perhaps not since Dr. Ruth commandeered American airwaves in the 1980s has there been a public figure with so much of an audience for her work on human sexuality. But if Dr. Ruth was trying to talk explicitly about the mechanics of sex in a pre-Lewinsky, relatively tame media environment, Ms. Perel has captured attention in the era of the oversexed. Instead of offering more explicitness, she writes and talks about the aspects of sexuality that can’t be captured on a screen, the hidden, psychological states that do or do not set the mechanics in motion.
自从20世纪80年代美国广播电台中的罗斯医生(Rr. Ruth)成为公众人物之后，或许这还是第一次，一个主要研究人类性行为的公众人物会拥有如此之多的听众。罗斯医生是在一种相对温和的前莱温斯基(Lewinsky)媒体环境之下，试图清晰地讲解性爱的机制，而佩莱尔却在这个性爱过多的时代吸引了人们的注意力。她并没有讲出更多露骨的东西，她所谈论和书写的，都是性爱当中那种无法被拍到屏幕上的东西，是那些隐藏的心理状态，它们令心理机制采取行动或不采取行动。
“Blatantness doesn’t inspire you these days,” said Ms. Perel, drinking French press coffee in the kitchen of her downtown Manhattan apartment not long ago. She was wearing huge sparkling hoop earrings and a tank top. “But to talk about mystery is immensely inspiring.” Embracing the mysteries of desire means she is also not on the hook for offering prescriptive answers to reviving a sex life that’s flatlined. “Americans fundamentally believe there is not a problem that does not have a solution — it’s the Nike approach: Just do it. But try to apply that to eroticism?” she asked, then shook her head. “I don’t have answers, as in ‘This is what you do.’ I do say, ‘This how I think it works.’ ”
“如今，露骨的东西已经不能刺激人们了，”不久前，佩莱尔在位于市中心曼哈顿的公寓里接受了采访，她戴着闪亮的大圆圈耳环，穿着背心，在自家厨房里喝法式滤压咖啡。“但是如果说起神秘的东西，这就非常有启发性。”接受欲望之中的神秘一面，意味着她并不仅仅是提供那些老一套的、旨在恢复伴侣间日趋平淡的性生活的答案。“美国人基本上都相信所有问题都有答案——那是耐克的方法：去做就是了。但是把这一套用在性爱之中呢？”她摇了摇头。“我没有‘你就要这样做的’之类答案。我只是说，‘我觉得这样能行。’”
So exactly how does she think it works? Needless to say, it works all sorts of ways, but Ms. Perel’s book and talks make the claim that in seeking total comfort and intimacy, couples sometimes squash any possibility of a sexual charge. “Intimacy becomes cruel when it excludes any possibility of discovery,” she writes in “Mating in Captivity.” And also: “When there is nothing left to hide, there is nothing left to seek.”
所以她觉得这是怎么产生效果的呢？不用说，是以多种方式产生效果，但佩莱尔的书和讲座声称，在追求舒适与亲密的同时，伴侣关系有时会遏制性能量。“如果把任何新发现的可能性排除在外，亲密关系就成为一种残酷，”她在《被束缚的交配》中写道，还有“如果没有任何东西可以隐藏，那么也就没有任何东西可以去发现。”
This notion, intuitive though it may be to anyone who’s ever owned a flannel nightgown, came as something of a revelation to the couples therapy community. Ms. Perel nudged the conversation in those circles away from the more politically correct concept “that if you really understand and care for each other, good sex will follow,” said Jim Walkup, president of the metro chapter of the New York Association for Marriage and Family Therapy. “She’s an advocate of understanding the difference between the erotic and the deep, caring commitment.” Couples therapy for the last 20 years, Ms. Perel said in a talk she gave to that association in December, has emphasized the need for security in a relationship. “But if woman is so domesticated and all she wanted is security, why did every civilization need to lock her up if she wasn’t going anywhere, anyway?”
对于任何曾经拥有一件法兰绒睡衣的人来说，这种观念都显得很直观，然而对于那些参加伴侣治疗的人们来说却显得像是一种启示。佩莱尔让对话远离更为政治正确的概念，诸如“如果你们真的彼此理解和关心，美好的性爱也会到来”之类，”婚姻与家庭治疗纽约协会的大都市分会主席吉姆·沃卡普(Jim Walkup)说，“她主张，性爱与伴侣之间深刻关怀的承诺之间是有区别的，要理解这种区别。” 12月，佩莱尔去纽约协会做讲座时说，近20年来的伴侣疗法强调深入研究一段关系，“但是如果女人太喜欢家庭生活，只想要安全感，如果她哪儿也不想去，那么为什么所有文明都需要把她锁在家里呢？”
In lieu of answers, Ms. Perel offers enticingly packaged insights as well a frank manner, her fans say, that facilitates open conversation. That she is physically appealing — in some photos, she looks like an exotically styled Katie Couric — is not irrelevant in her line of work. As Mr. Robbins put it, “She’s an attractive person, so men will pay attention — sounds horrible, but true — but not over the top, in a way that would make women not feel safe.”
粉丝们说，佩莱尔并不提供答案，只是提供了一系列诱人的洞察，以及一种坦白的态度，可以促进公开对话。她长得很美，在某些照片里，她看上去有点像富于异国风情的凯蒂·库里克(Katie Couric)，这与她的作品并非全然无关。正如罗宾斯所说：“她是个很迷人的人，所以男人经常注意她——这听上去很可怕，但这是真的——但是这种关注并不过火，是那种让女人觉得安全的关注。”
Petite, perfumed, blonde and someone who strategically brushes back her hair while speaking, Ms. Perel quickly builds intimate connections. Which is not to say her manner is gentle. At a men-only discussion she held at Summit, a married, successful investor from Los Angeles raised his hand, started with an off-color joke, then asked Ms. Perel about the challenge of temptation at a place like that very retreat, where there were so many unattached young women, none of whom nagged him about taking his shoes off in the house. Ms. Perel let loose.
她身材娇小，一头金发，喷着香水，演讲时经常有技巧地撩动头发，这样很快就能与人建立起密切的联系。但这并不意味着她的方式很温和。在那次峰会上，她举行了一次只有男人参加的座谈会，一个来自洛杉矶，事业有成的已婚投资者举手发言，一开口就是黄色笑话，然后问佩莱尔，如果置身一个安静的地方，身边有很多未婚的年轻女性，没有人会用在家里要脱掉鞋子之类的事情烦他，在这样一个场合，该怎样抗拒诱惑。佩莱尔轻松应对。
“She said something like, ‘If you’re so immature that your wife is mothering you, and that turns you off and you can’t communicate it, that’s your problem,’ ” recalled the investor, who preferred that his name not be used. “She was hard on me. And I was O.K. with that. She’s very authentic.”
“她说，‘如果你那么不成熟，你的妻子要给你当妈妈，这让你觉得不舒服，而你又不去沟通，这完全是你的问题，’”这位不愿意透露姓名的投资者说。“她对我很严厉，我觉得没问题。她很真诚。”
Many of Ms. Perel’s fans might be surprised to learn that she is relatively new to the subject for which she is best-known. She started concentrating on sexuality about a decade ago. Until then, she was mostly known in the therapeutic field for her clinical work with intercultural and interfaith couples.
其实在这个领域里，佩莱尔还是一个新人，这可能会令她的许多粉丝们感到惊讶。她是十年前才开始关注性爱问题的。在那之前，她主要是以为跨文化与跨信仰的伴侣提供临床心理治疗闻名。
The daughter of two Polish-born Holocaust survivors, Ms. Perel was raised in Antwerp, in a community of survivors; she went to college at Hebrew University and started creating workshops with Jewish immigrants about their cultural identity. Her work with interfaith couples grew out of that expertise. “Since I was 19, I’ve been creating conversations,” she said. “I create thought-provoking, challenging conversations about the unspoken.”
佩莱尔的父母都是波兰人，是犹太大屠杀的幸存者，她在安特卫普一个犹太大屠杀幸存者的社区中长大；在希伯来大学读书，后来为犹太移民主持对谈，促进他们的文化身份认同。她为跨信仰伴侣进行心理治疗便是在此基础上发展起来的。“从19岁起，我就开始举办座谈了，”她说。“我为不能言说的主题举办发人深省、富于挑战性的座谈会。”
In her mid-40s, Ms. Perel, who has a master’s degree in expressive art therapy, started thinking about taking on a new intellectual challenge. She began reading and writing more explicitly about sexuality, an aspect of couples therapy in which she had not yet specialized. She feels certain that the decision to take on the subject of sex, like her interest in cultural identity before it, can be traced to her upbringing. “I remember saying as a kid, ‘No door will ever be closed to me,’ ” she said.
佩莱尔拥有表现艺术心理疗法的硕士学位，45岁左右的时候，她开始考虑从事新的智力挑战。她开始阅读和写作关于性爱方面更加直白的内容，在情侣心理疗法中，这个领域是她当时并不精通的。她明白，她对性爱这个主题的关注，和她之前对文化身份认同的兴趣一样，可以追溯到她的成长期。“我记得小时候，我说过，‘我要打开所有的大门，’”她说。
Growing up in a community of survivors left her permanently thinking about how people find their way to vibrant lives. “In my community there were two groups of people,” she said. “There were the ones who did not die and the ones who came back to life.” Her parents, a social couple who talked openly about what they endured in the camps, who were storytellers and who had humor, fell into the second category. In helping others explore their sexuality, as Ms. Perel sees it, she is helping foster a totally different, difficult conversation, and yet also helping individuals “be more alive — to have a more complex and meaningful lived life.”
在大屠杀幸存者的社区长大的经历使她一直在思考人们如何在动荡的生活中寻找自己的出路。“在我成长的社区里有两种人，”她说。“一种是没死过的，一种是复活过来的。”她的父母是第二种人，他们很爱社交，经常公开谈起自己是如何挺过了集中营的日子，他们喜欢讲故事，有幽默感。佩莱尔认为，在帮助别人探索自己的性爱同时，她也在培育出一种完全不同的、非常艰苦的对话，能够帮助个体的人“更有生机——拥有更复杂、更有意义的生活”。
Ms. Perel prefers to leave her husband, Jack Saul, the director of the International Trauma Studies Program in New York, out of stories about her work (although she did mention that he likes to say he’s going to write a sequel called “How to Get Your Wife to Write a Book About Eroticism.” But when the older of their two sons, Adam Saul, walked in the door of their home that afternoon, she invited him (in French, in which she usually converses with him) to comment on his mother’s work if he was so inclined. Adam, a sophomore at Wesleyan, said that for years he begged his mother to cover up her books about sex when his friends came over.
佩莱尔的丈夫杰克·索尔(Jack Saul)是纽约国际心理创伤研究计划的主任，她不愿意谈起丈夫在她的工作中扮演的角色（不过她说，他打算写一个系列，就叫“怎样唆使你的老婆写一本关于性爱的书”）。不过，当天下午，她两个儿子中的老大亚当·索尔走进家门后，她邀请他（用法语，他俩之间交谈一般都是用这种语言）来评价一下母亲的工作。亚当是卫斯理大学的二年级学生，他说多年来自己带朋友回家时都得求妈妈把她那些关于性爱的书的封面遮住。
“But she said she wouldn’t cover up books about weapons of mass destruction, ‘And so I wouldn’t cover these up, either,’ ” said Adam, putting on his mother’s European accent as she looked on with pride. For all the embarrassment he might have endured, he had some nice things to say about having a sex therapist for a mother, too. “High school sexual education programs don’t teach you how to communicate with your partner,” he said. “They’ll show you a picture, I can tell you if it’s gonorrhea or chlamydia, but not how to have normal, healthy intimacy.”
“但她说，既然她不会把关于大规模杀伤武器的书的封面遮住，‘所以这些书的封面我也不打算遮住，’”亚当模仿着母亲的欧洲口音，而她脸上浮现出自豪的神情。他虽然经历了许多尴尬，但是拥有一个身为性心理治疗师的老妈也有很多好事可说，“中学的性教育课不会教你怎么和伴侣沟通，”他说。“他们就给你看一张图，我可以告诉你那是淋病病毒还是衣原体，但从中学不到怎样享有正常健康的亲密关系。”