MONETA, Va. — A former reporter who had been fired by a Virginia television station shot and killed two of the station’s journalists as they broadcast live on Wednesday morning, officials said, recording the act on video himself and then posting the video online. He later took his own life, officials said.
弗吉尼亚州莫内塔——官员称，周三早上，弗吉尼亚州一名遭电视台解雇的前记者，枪杀了该电视台两名正在进行现场直播的记者。凶手自己用视频记录下了这一举动，随后还将视频发布在了网上。官员称，这名男子随后自杀。
The shooting and the graphic images that resulted marked a horrific turn in the national intersection of video, violence and social media. The gunman’s own 56-second video showed him waiting until the journalists were on air before raising a handgun and firing at point-blank range, ensuring that it would be seen, live or recorded, by thousands.
枪击事件之后传出了血腥的画面，视频、暴力和社交媒体融合在一起，向全国展示了这场可怕的事件。枪手自己录制的长达56秒的视频显示，他一直等到两名记者开始直播后，才举起手枪近距离地开火，确保这一幕能被成千上万的观众看到，不论是直播还是被录制下来。
A reporter, Alison Parker, 24, and a cameraman, Adam Ward, 27, were killed, according to their station, WDBJ, while the person they were interviewing, Vicki Gardner, was wounded and underwent surgery. She was listed in stable condition.
死者供职的电视台WDBJ称，遇害者分别是24岁的记者艾莉森·帕克(Alison Parker)和27岁的摄像师亚当·沃德(Adam Ward)，而当时正在接受他们采访的薇姬·加德纳(Vicki Gardner)因伤接受手术，目前伤情稳定。
After leading the police on a high-speed pursuit, the gunman shot himself in the head. He died around 1:30 p.m. after being airlifted to a hospital.
在被警方高速追逐后，枪手朝自己的头部开枪自杀。空运到医院后，凶手于下午1点30分左右死亡。
The police and WDBJ identified the gunman as Vester Lee Flanagan, whose on-the-air name was Bryce Williams. Mr. Flanagan, 41, had aired grievances against the station and other employees there before and after he was dismissed two years ago.
警方和WDBJ称，枪手是韦斯特·李·弗拉纳根(Vester Lee Flanagan)，做节目时曾化名布赖斯·威廉斯(Bryce Williams)。41岁的弗拉纳根两年前被该电视台解雇。在被解雇前和被解雇后，他都表达过对电视台及其员工的不满。
Shortly after the shooting, a post to Mr. Flanagan’s Twitter account said, “I filmed the shooting see Facebook,” and a shocking video recording from the gunman’s point of view was posted to his Facebook page. Both accounts were quickly shut down.
枪击事件发生后不久，弗拉纳根的Twitter账户发出的一则消息称，“我把枪击事件拍下来了，请看我的Facebook页面。”而在他的Facebook页面上，一段令人震惊的视频，从枪手的角度展示了当时的情况。很快，这两个账户都被关闭了。
ABC News reported that it had received a 23-page fax from Mr. Flanagan and had given it to law enforcement officials. A Virginia government official who saw the fax described it as the “rantings of an obviously depressed individual” who mentions suicide, but does not talk about killing others.
ABC新闻频道(ABC News)报道称，收到了弗拉纳根发来的一份23页长的传真，并已将其转交给了执法官员。弗吉尼亚州的一名政府官员看过传真，称行文像是“一个显然患有抑郁症的人发出的咆哮”。这名官员称，弗拉纳根提到了自杀，但没有说过要杀害他人。
In the document sent to ABC News, Mr. Flanagan, who is black, wrote that the carnage was his reaction to the racism of the Charleston church shooting, in which Dylann S. Roof is accused of shooting nine church members.
在传真给ABC新闻频道的文件中，身为黑人的弗拉纳根写道，导致他杀人的是查尔斯顿教堂枪击事件反映出的种族主义。在该事件中，迪伦·S·鲁夫(Dylann S. Roof)被控杀害了九名教众。
“Why did I do it? I put down a deposit for a gun on 6/19/15,” he wrote, according to ABC. “The church shooting in Charleston happened on 6/17/15.”
据ABC称，弗拉纳根写道，“为什么这么做？15年6月19日，我付了买枪的定金。查尔斯顿枪击是15年6月17日发生的。”
“The church shooting was the tipping point…but my anger has been building steadily...I’ve been a human powder keg for a while…just waiting to go BOOM!!!!” he wrote.
“教堂枪击事件是个转折点……但我的愤怒由来已久……一段时间以来，我就是个人体炸药桶……就等着轰的一声引爆！！！”他写道。
In the fax, he said that he had suffered racial discrimination, sexual harassment and bullying at work, and that he had been attacked by black men and white females. He talked about how he was attacked for being a gay black man.
在传真中，他说自己在工作中遭受了种族歧视、性骚扰和欺凌，还称自己遭到过黑人男性和白人女性的攻击。他还谈到了自己作为黑人同性恋所受到的攻击。
“Yes, it will sound like I am angry…I am,” he wrote, according to ABC. “And I have every right to be. But when I leave this Earth, the only emotion I want to feel is peace...”
据ABC描述，弗拉纳根写道，“是的，听上去我好像有些生气……我是生气。我完全有理由生气。但离开地球时，我只想有一种感受，那就是宁静……”
The Twitter account of Mr. Flanagan referred to a complaint he had filed against the station with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. He claimed to have been subjected to racist comments in the workplace.
弗拉纳根的Twitter账号提到，他曾向联邦公平就业机会委员会(Equal Employment Opportunity Commission)投诉前述电视台。他声称自己在工作场所成了种族歧视言论的攻击对象。
Jeffrey A. Marks, president and general manager of the station, confirmed that the complaint had been filed, but said it was dismissed as baseless. Of the racist comments, “none of them could be corroborated by anyone,” he said. “We think they were fabricated.”
该电视台的台长兼总经理杰弗里·A·马克斯(Jeffrey A. Marks)证实了那次投诉，但表示因为被认为毫无根据，投诉未被受理。对于弗拉纳根提到的种族主义言论，他表示，“谁都没法证实，我们认为它们是捏造出来的。”
A spokeswoman for the agency, Kimberly Smith-Brown, said federal law prohibited her from confirming whether the agency had received a complaint.
公平就业机会委员会的女发言人金伯莉·史密斯-布朗(Kimberly Smith-Brown)称，联邦法律不允许她证实该委员会是否收到了投诉。
At WDBJ, Mr. Flanagan “quickly gathered a reputation as someone who was difficult to work with,” Mr. Marks said.
马克斯表示，在WDBJ时，弗拉纳根“很快就落下了难以共事的名声”。
“He was sort of looking out for people to say things that he could take offense to,” Mr. Marks said. “Eventually, after many incidents of his anger coming to the fore, we dismissed him. He did not take that well, and we had to call the police to escort him from the building.”
“他仿佛是紧盯着别人在说些什么话，好让他觉得自己被冒犯了，”马克斯说。“最终，在他把愤怒表现出来的情况发生多次后，我们把他解雇了。他觉得难以接受，我们不得不让警察来把他从楼里带走。”
Discussing Ms. Parker and Mr. Ward on the air, Mr. Marks said, “I cannot tell you how much they were loved.”
谈到事发时正在进行直播的帕克和沃德，马克斯说，“同事对他们有多喜欢，我简直无法形容。”
Both victims were romantically involved with other members of the station’s staff, Mr. Marks said. “We have other members of the team here today, holding back tears, frankly,” he said.
马克斯说，两名遇害者都和电视台的其他同事情谊深厚。“今天我们团队的其他成员也在这里，老实说都强忍着眼泪，”他说。
Ms. Parker and Mr. Ward were covering a story for WDBJ at Bridgewater Plaza, a shopping and recreational sports plaza on the shore of Smith Mountain Lake, in the Blue Ridge Mountains. They were interviewing Ms. Gardner, executive director of the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce, at 6:46 a.m. when the shooting began.
遇袭时，帕克和沃德正在布里奇沃特购物中心(Bridgewater Plaza)采访。那是一家购物休闲运动中心，位于蓝岭山脉中的史密斯山湖湖畔。当时是早上6点46分，他们正在采访史密斯山湖地区商会的执行理事加德纳，枪击就是在这时发生的。