Right Now: After winning the presidency, Donald J. Trump is addressing supporters in New York City. 
最新：特朗普在纽约发表胜选演讲，肯定了希拉里坚持不懈的努力及其家人的支持。号召美国民众弥合一切裂痕，作为一个整体来建设美国。他还表示，希拉里已经致电向他表示祝贺。
******
Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, addressed her supporters and said she would not concede tonight. 
希拉里·克林顿竞选团队的主席约翰·D·波德斯塔向支持者发表讲话，称希拉里今晚将不会发表败选演讲。
Donald Trump Pennsylvania.
唐纳德·J·特朗普赢下宾夕法尼亚州。
******
Donald Trump has won Florida.
唐纳德·J·特朗普赢得佛罗里达州29张选举人票，拿下该州。
******
Donald Trump has won North Carolina, opening a clear path to victory with one of the night’s biggest electoral prizes. Hillary Clinton has won Virginia.
唐纳德·J·特朗普赢得北卡罗来纳州这一大选日头奖，似乎为胜利之路扫清了障碍。但希拉里·克林顿随即拿下弗吉尼亚州及加利福尼亚州，仍保留反败为胜的可能。
Donald J. Trump was holding on to small but significant leads in a series of key battleground states on Tuesday night, upending months of polling that had given the advantage to Hillary Clinton and raising Republican hopes of seizing back the White House.
特朗普周二晚在各个关键州保持着微小却重要的领先优势，颠覆了数月预测希拉里·克林顿将保持优势的民调，燃起共和党夺回白宫的希望。
Reaction to the prospect of a Trump presidency rippled across the globe, with financial markets abroad falling as American television networks raised the prospect that Mrs. Clinton might lose. Asian markets were trading sharply lower, down around two percentage points, and in the United States, Dow Jones futures were down as much as 600 points in after-hours trading.
对于特朗普即将成为总统的反应迅速波及全球，随着美国各大电视网提升了希拉里·克林顿或许将输掉选举的可能性，全球金融市场迅速下跌。亚洲市场下跌两个百分点，在美国，道琼斯预计将在盘后交易下跌600点。
******
Donald Trump has won Ohio. It’s a major victory in a closely contested state that voted for President Obama twice.
特朗普已赢得俄亥俄州，获得重大胜利。选情一度势均力敌，此前该州两次投给奥巴马总统。
******
Donald J. Trump is holding on to razor-thin leads in several crucial battleground states, including Florida and North Carolina, giving the Republican nominee a path to victory if he can defeat Hillary Clinton in one of the Democratic strongholds that until recently seemed firmly in her grasp.
在几个关键州，包括佛罗里达州和北卡罗来纳州在内，唐纳德·J·特朗普正保持微弱优势，如果这位共和党提名人能在民主党其中一个据点打败希拉里·克林顿，他可能会就此走向胜利。不久前那些据点似乎还牢牢掌握在克林顿手里。
The vote margins separating Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton remain razor thin in the states that will determine the outcome of the presidential contest, with voters clearly demonstrating the polarized nature of the American electorate.
在这场总统竞选中对最终结果起决定性作用的关键州，特朗普和克林顿的票数差距极小，极大地表现出了美国选民的两极化本质。
Campaign advisers to Mrs. Clinton watched nervously on Tuesday night as healthy leads that had been predicted in polling for much of the past several months appeared to evaporate while the votes were tallied. At 10 p.m., Mr. Trump was clinging to small leads in Florida, North Carolina, Michigan, Wisconsin.
周二晚，随着计票开展，此前数月民调预测克林顿保持领先的态势似乎已消失不见，克林顿的竞选顾问紧张地关注着选举。当地时间晚10点，特朗普在佛罗里达州、北卡罗来纳州、密歇根州和威斯康星洲保持着微弱优势。
In Florida, Mr. Trump was leading among white voters, including those with a college degree, while Mrs. Clinton was buoyed by a rise in nonwhite voters. Roughly four in 10 Florida voters in Tuesday’s election were nonwhite, and they accounted for well over half of Mrs. Clinton’s backers there.
特朗普在佛罗里达州白人选民中领先，包括那些有大学学位的，克林顿则获得了非白人选民的支持。佛罗里达选民每10个人中有大约4人为非白人，这一群体也占当地克林顿支持者总数的超过一半。
Early results from East Coast and Rust Belt battleground states showed a tight race between Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton for the Oval Office as Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a onetime presidential hopeful, won re-election in a hard-fought contest that could help thwart Democratic hopes to take over the Senate.
东海岸和“铁锈地带”选区初步结果显示唐纳德·J·特朗普和希拉里·克林顿势均力敌，同时马尔科·卢比奥赢得佛罗里达州参议员席位，他曾是一名有希望的总统候选人，此次重新参与选举赢得席位，可能就此击碎民主党接管参议院的希望。
******
Donald J. Trump has won three deep red states — Kentucky, Indiana and West Virginia — earning a total of 24 electoral votes in his bid for the presidency. And Hillary Clinton has won Vermont’s three electoral votes, emerging victorious in the state represented in the Senate by Bernie Sanders, her top Democratic challenger in the primaries.
唐纳德·J·特朗普已赢得肯塔基州、印第安纳州和西弗吉尼亚州三个深红选区，在本次大选中获得24张选举人票。希拉里·克林顿已赢得佛蒙特州3张选举人票，在这个曾经由她的头号民主党初选对手伯尼·桑德斯在参议院所代表的州取得胜利。
But a handful of key states on the East Coast remain too close to call shortly after polls closed at 7 p.m., reflecting an intense battle for votes that could lead to a long night before a White House victor is determined.
但还有不少东海岸的关键州票数相当，无法在美东时间晚7点投票结束后迅速宣布结果。最终的胜利者尘埃落定之前，两位候选人还将度过一个漫漫长夜，有一场激烈的战争要打。
Here are some other developments happening now:
这里是目前的一些其他进展：
• Ohio may be very close. While pre-election polls have consistently shown Mr. Trump in the lead in the Buckeye State, the results of early exit polls there suggest that late deciders have leaned toward Mrs. Clinton, giving her more of a chance. Among the one in six voters who decided in the past week, Mrs. Clinton holds a modest but clear advantage over Mr. Trump, and she performed best among women, younger voters, black voters and the nonreligious. Mr. Trump’s strongest support came from men, older voters, white voters and evangelicals.
• 俄亥俄州票数可能非常接近。早期选举民调一直显示特朗普在这个又名“七叶树州”的地方会领先，早期出口民调显示较晚决定投给谁的选民可能会倾向克林顿，给她较大机会。在上周选定投票对象的每6个选民中，就有一人给予希拉里大幅优势，并且希拉里在女性、年轻选民、黑人选民、不信教者中表现尤佳。特朗普最强有力的支持则来自男性、年长的选民、白人及福音派。
• Both candidates earn some expected victories. From the department of the unsurprising, the results from a slew of noncompetitive states: Mrs. Clinton has won in Illinois, New York, Maryland, New Jersey, Massachusetts and Delaware, as well as the District of Columbia. Mr. Trump has won in South Dakota, Wyoming, Texas, Kansas, Nebraska, Arkansas, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Tennessee.
• 两位候选人都取得一些了预期中的胜利。那些无甚惊喜、不具有竞争力的选区结果已出：希拉里·克林顿分别赢得马里兰州、新泽西州、马萨诸塞州、特拉华州、哥伦比亚特区、康涅迪格州、纽约、伊利诺斯州和罗德岛。特朗普则赢得俄克拉荷马州、田纳西州、阿拉巴马州、路易斯安那州、阿肯色州、堪萨斯州、内布拉斯卡州、德克萨斯州、怀俄明州、北达科他州、南达科他州、密西西比州和南卡罗来纳州。
******
Voters who surged into polling places across America on Tuesday were sharply divided over whether either Donald J. Trump or Hillary Clinton had the experience and character to lead the nation, and large majorities of those who cast ballots expressed doubts about the honesty and integrity of both candidates. A race that has been dominated by ugly, personal attacks appears to have taken a toll on voters, who said in early exit polling that they had serious misgivings about Mr. Trump’s treatment of women and about Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server.
对于唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)或者希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)是否拥有领导美国的经验和性格，本周二涌入美国各地投票站的选民有很大的分歧，而且大多数投票者都对两位候选人的诚实和正直表示了怀疑。这场充斥着丑陋的人身攻击的竞选似乎给选民带来了伤害，他们在早期出口民调中说，特朗普对待女性的态度，以及克林顿使用私人电邮服务器的事情，给他们带来了严重疑虑。
The country’s mood appears darker and more pessimistic than it was four years ago, with about 60 percent of voters saying the country is seriously on the wrong track, compared with only about half of voters who said that in 2012. More than two-thirds of Tuesday’s voters said they were dissatisfied or even angry with the way the federal government was working.
国人的情绪似乎比四年前加更消沉和悲观，约60%的选民说，国家步入了极为错误的轨道，而2012年的时候只有大约一半的选民这么说。本周二超过三分之二的选民说，他们对联邦政府的运作方式不满意，甚至是感到愤怒。
Many voters who cast ballots early in the day said they were eager for a president who could bring change to Washington, though they expressed dismay that issues like the economy had been largely overlooked in the brutal, long and nasty campaign.
很多一大早就去投票的选民表示，他们渴望能够给华盛顿带来变革的总统，不过像经济这样的问题在粗暴、冗长和卑劣的竞选活动中基本上遭到了忽视，令他们感到失望。
Here are some of the day’s other highlights:
这里有一些其他重点：
• Does anyone trust the presidential hopefuls? Months of personal character attacks by both candidates appear to have left voters largely dissatisfied with their choices, according to early exit polls: only about 4 in 10 voters viewed Mrs. Clinton as honest and trustworthy, while slightly fewer said that Mr. Trump is honest.
• 有人信任总统候选人吗？数月来，两个候选人都对对方的人格展开了攻击，似乎导致大部分选民对眼前的选项都不满意，早期出口民调显示：每10名选民中只有大约4人认为克林顿诚实可信，认为特朗普诚实的人略少一点。
• Whose resume is better? Mrs. Clinton’s experience appears to pass the test with voters, about half of whom said the former senator and secretary of state is qualified to serve as president. Fewer than 4 in 10 said the same of Mr. Trump, who has embraced his status as a businessman and a Washington outsider.
• 谁的资历更合适？克林顿的资历似乎获得了选民的认可，大约一半的人说，克林顿曾任参议员和国务卿，能胜任总统一职。少于4/10的人说特朗普能胜任。特朗普作为商人和华盛顿局外人的身份被他自己视为一个亮点。
• How did the scandals play? More than 4 in 10 voters said Mrs. Clinton’s email controversies bothered them “a lot” while a larger proportion — 6 in 10 — said they were bothered a lot by Mr. Trump’s treatment of women.
• 丑闻有什么影响？超过4/10的选民说，克林顿的电邮争议让他们“非常”恼火，而比例更多（6/10）的人说，特朗普对待女性的态度让他们很恼火。
• Will it be a record-shattering day for voting? It is too early to tell. But there are some indicators of the turnout across the country. Voting was robust in the bellwether state of Florida, where early voting was particularly en vogue. By 1 p.m., more than 900,000 voters had cast ballots in Miami-Dade County, surpassing the total turnout from four years ago, according to Robert Rodriguez, a spokesman for the board of elections.
• 这次选举的投票率会创下记录吗？现在说为时尚早。但是有一些指标显示了全国的投票率。佛罗里达州去投票的人很多，而且还投得很早。选举委员会发言人罗伯特·罗德里格斯(Robert Rodriguez)说，截止下午1点，迈阿密-戴德县就有超过90万选民投票，比该县四年前总的投票人数还多。
The Hispanic population, a sleeping giant, is now awake. The Hispanic turnout will be far higher than it was in 2012. It has the best shot of deciding the election in Florida, where Hispanic voters represent a well-above-average share of the population.
西语裔人口曾是沉睡的巨人，现在已经醒来。他们的投票率将远远高于2012年。他们很有可能会决定佛罗里达州的选举结果，因为西语裔选民在该州的占比远远高于全国平均水平。
Trump campaign sues over Nevada voting.
特朗普竞选团队就内华达州投票提起诉讼。
The Trump campaign filed a lawsuit on Tuesday seeking to have votes in Nevada impounded on the grounds that poll workers illegally extended early voting hours to accommodate people who were waiting in long lines.
周二，特朗普竞选团队提起诉讼，要求扣押内华达州选票，理由是投票站工作人员非法延长了提前投票时间，以关照正在排着长队的人们。
Thousands of Hispanic voters lined up outside polling places to vote last Friday in Clark County, which is home to Las Vegas and has the state’s largest Hispanic population. Record turnout has raised fears among Republicans that they could lose the battleground state and Trump campaign officials have been complaining that the extension of hours in some locations is evidence that the election is rigged.
上周五，数千名西语裔选民在克拉克县的投票点外排队。这是拉斯维加斯所在的县，拥有该州最大的西语裔人口。创纪录的投票人数令共和党人担心可能会丢掉这个关键州。特朗普竞选团队的工作人员一直在抱怨，有些投票点延长了数小时，证明这场选举受到了操纵。
The lawsuit alleges that the people were allowed to vote illegally because they cast ballots after the published closing times at polling places.
诉讼称人们被允许非法投票，因为他们是在投票点公布的结束时间之后投票。
The campaign also sent a letter to Nevada’s secretary of state asking for an investigation into the allegations of “egregious violations.”
该竞选团队还去信内华达州务卿，要求对这一“严重违规”的行为展开调查。
Clinton and Trump vote.
克林顿和特朗普投票。
Parents held their children in the air to get a glimpse as Mrs. Clinton voted for herself in Chappaqua, N.Y., on Tuesday morning.
周二早上，克林顿在纽约州的查帕瓜给自己投票时，父母们把孩子举到头顶，好看到那一场景。
“It’s a humbling feeling,” Mrs. Clinton said.
“这让我深感卑微，”克林顿说。
Mr. Trump appeared to be in good spirits when he arrived at a Manhattan polling place on the Upper East Side just before 11 a.m. with his wife, Melania, to vote for himself.
上午将近11点的时候，特朗普和妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)到达了位于曼哈顿上东区的一个投票点，给自己投票。他看上去好像情绪不错。
He was met with a mix of cheers and boos as he left his motorcade and waved to pedestrians.
在他离开车队向行人挥手时，有人欢呼，有人发出嘘声。
Inside Public School 59, Mr. Trump shook hands with other voters and offered high-fives to some children who came along with their parents.
在59公立学校内，特朗普与其他投票者握手，还主动和一些跟父母一起来的孩子击掌。
The vice-presidential candidates also voted in the morning.
两位副总统候选人也在这天上午投了票。
George W. Bush leaves the top of his ballot blank.
乔治·W·布什的选票顶端为空白。
Former President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura, did not vote for Donald J. Trump, a Bush spokesman said, making official their rejection of the Republican presidential nominee.
乔治·W·布什的发言人表示，这位前总统及他的妻子劳拉没有投票给唐纳德·J·特朗普，正式表明了他们对这位共和党提名人的反对态度。
Mr. and Mrs. Bush “left the top blank and voted Republican down-ballot,” according to Freddy Ford, an aide to the former president.
前总统的助手弗雷迪·福特(Freddy Ford)称，布什夫妇“把最上方空着，选择了选票下方的共和党人”。
Mr. Bush, his father and his younger brother, Jeb, all indicated after the primary contest that they would not support Mr. Trump. The 43rd president has avoided commenting publicly on the campaign ever since, even as he obliquely criticized Mr. Trump’s brand of populism at a series of fund-raisers for Republican Senate candidates.
在初选结束后，布什、他的父亲及弟弟杰布就曾表示，他们不会支持特朗普。自那之后，这位美国第43任总统一直避免公开就竞选发表评论，就连参加为多名共和党参议员候选人举行的一系列募捐会时，他也是间接指责特朗普的民粹主义。
Bob Dole is the only former Republican nominee who supported Mr. Trump’s candidacy.
鲍勃·多尔(Bob Dole)是唯一一个支持特朗普当候选人的前共和党提名人。