PHOENIX — From his desk in a downtown workshop, Greg Hankerson is at war with a Chinese company half a world away.
凤凰城——在市中心一家工作坊的办公桌前，格里格·汉克森(Greg Hankerson)正在和半个世界之外的一家中国公司交战。
Mr. Hankerson and his wife, Sim, own Vintage Industrial, which designs and makes antique-style tables, cabinets and other furniture. The 25-employee start-up produces everything at its Phoenix factory, much of it by hand.
汉克森和他的妻子西姆(Sim)创办了Vintage Industrial，专门设计和制作古董风格的桌子、橱柜和其他家具。这家初创公司有25名员工，在凤凰城的工厂生产家具，大部分都是手工制作。
But that hasn’t protected Mr. Hankerson from counterfeiters, who peddle cheap copies of his creations on internet marketplaces run by Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce company. He can find hundreds of suspected counterfeits of his furniture on Alibaba’s various sites, including Taobao, a free-for-all shopping platform on which the Chinese hawk items as varied as T-shirts and televisions.
但是汉克森还是受到了假货商的打击。这些假货商在中国最大的电子商务公司阿里巴巴的平台上销售汉克森家具的廉价山寨品，他可以在阿里巴巴的各个网站上找到数以百计的这种仿冒产品。其中一个网站是任何人都可以加入的购物平台淘宝，中国人爱在这里购买从T恤到电视机的各种东西。
One recent day, Mr. Hankerson fired up his web browser to scan for counterfeits. Several Taobao shops sell copies of various Vintage Industrial tables, including one with A-shaped legs and another with a glass top and propeller-like base, as well as cabinets and a metal locker.
最近的一天，汉克森在浏览器上竭力搜寻仿品。有好几家淘宝店销售各种Vintage Industrial出品桌子的仿品，包括一张A字形桌腿的，一张有螺旋桨形状底座、玻璃台面的，还有橱柜和金属储物柜。
“It just keeps going and going and going,” Mr. Hankerson, 45, said. “It’s like trying to pick weeds on a 70-acre farm.”
“就这么一直不停，不断不断地冒出来，”45岁的汉克森说。“感觉就好像是给一片70英亩的农田除杂草。”
Alibaba’s founder, Jack Ma, has pledged to enhance the fortunes of small enterprises around the world by using e-commerce to expand their global trade. In January, Mr. Ma, who is one of China’s richest people, pledged to Donald J. Trump, then the president-elect, that Alibaba would create one million jobs in the United States by connecting small businesses like Mr. Hankerson’s to increasingly wealthy Chinese shoppers.
阿里巴巴的创始人马云曾经承诺通过发展电子商务、扩展全世界的小企业在全球的贸易，帮它们增加收入。今年1月，中国最富有的人之一马云向当时还是候任总统的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)保证，阿里巴巴将在美国创造100万个工作岗位，方式是将汉克森的工作坊这样的小企业与越来越富有的中国买家连接起来。
But Mr. Hankerson wants to know why Alibaba doesn’t do more to defeat counterfeiting, which damages the very same small businesses Mr. Ma says he intends to aid.
但汉克森想知道阿里巴巴为什么不在打假方面做更多努力，因为假货伤害的正是马云有意帮助的小企业。
Mr. Ma “is making himself look like someone you can trust,” Mr. Hankerson said. But, he added, his company is selling counterfeit products.
马云“在把自己塑造成看起来值得信任的人”，汉克森说，但他的公司却在销售假货。
Alibaba is a company valued at $260 billion, with hundreds of millions of buyers using its sales platforms. Millions of Chinese shop there for things as varied as snacks and knickknacks and phone charging cables, while global brands flock to its high-end sales platform, Tmall. In China, Alibaba is a kingmaker for hopeful tech start-ups, while an affiliated online mobile payment system is the envy of Silicon Valley. It has a growing cloud-computing business and increasingly extols its prowess with big data.
阿里巴巴是一家市值2600亿美元的公司，有数亿卖家使用它的销售平台。数千万的中国人在上面购买从零食到小摆设再到手机充电线等各种东西，各种全球品牌也涌入阿里巴巴的高端销售平台天猫。阿里巴巴在中国对有望成功的科技创业公司是一个极具影响力的角色，与此同时它旗下的一个在线移动支付系统也令硅谷公司艳羡。它还拥有不断增长的云计算业务，也愈发频繁地夸耀自身在大数据领域的实力。
That leaves many businesses, big and small, wondering why it has such a hard time finding fakes on its sites. Its online system for reporting counterfeits, many say, is cumbersome and prone to hiccups. Against one of the world’s biggest tech firms, Mr. Hankerson employs his iMac, $74-a-month image-searching software, his phone and a lot of time — sometimes, he says, 12 hours a day.
这让大大小小的许多企业想不通，为什么它在自己的网站上找假货就那么艰难。许多人表示，阿里巴巴举报假货的在线系统十分繁琐，很容易出现问题。面对世界上最大的科技公司之一，汉克森的装备是自己的iMac、74美元一个月的图片搜索软件、他的电话，还要搭上很多时间——他说有时一天要花12个小时。
Yet if he doesn’t invest the effort, he worries that a flood of cut-rate replicas could undermine the future of his business. Shops on Alibaba — shops that sometimes sell outside China — offer their copies at a fraction of Mr. Hankerson’s prices. One Taobao store sold a version of his A-frame table, with a starting price of $5,295, for $24.
然而，如果不做这些努力，他担心一大批廉价复制品会损及他未来的生意。阿里巴巴上的店铺——有时也在中国之外销售商品——提供的仿品的价格只有汉克森售价的零头。一家淘宝店铺把他标价不低于5295美元的A字形桌子的仿品打出了24美元的价格。
“If this gets out of hand, people are going to be able to buy our stuff for next for nothing,” he said. “It could be devastating for us.”
“如果这种情况失去控制，人们下一次就会想以极其便宜的价格买我们的东西，”他说。“那对我们来说将是毁灭性的。”
Fighting Fakes
打假
Alibaba has long faced accusations that its sales platforms are a haven for fakes, and big organizations have been effective at bringing the problem to the fore.
长久以来，阿里巴巴一直被指控其销售平台是假货的天堂，大机构实际上已经将这一问题摆上了台面。
Following complaints from industry groups, the office of the United States Trade Representative last year added Taobao to its list of “notorious markets” for counterfeit goods, after removing it four years earlier. The corporate owner of the Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent brand names, Kering, sued Alibaba two years ago over the prevalence of fakes on its services. Alibaba, which is fighting the suit in a New York federal court, says it has no basis.
在行业组织提出抗议之后，美国贸易代表办公室（United States Trade Representative，简称USTR）去年将淘宝列入了出售假冒商品的“恶名市场”名单——该机构四年前曾将淘宝从这个名单中删除。拥有古驰(Gucci)和伊夫·圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)品牌的开云公司(Kering)在两年前就阿里巴巴网站上假货肆虐的情况对它提起诉讼。正在一座纽约联邦法院应对这场官司的阿里巴巴表示，这项指控没有依据。
In a report submitted to the U.S.T.R. in October, Alibaba boasted about the technology and resources it uses to clean counterfeits from its platforms. The company says its systems are powerful enough to scan 10 million product listings each day. As a result, Alibaba said, it proactively removed 380 million suspect product listings in one 12-month period.
在去年10月向USTR提交的一份报告中，阿里巴巴竭力夸耀自己用以清除平台假货的技术和资源。这家公司表示，它的系统十分强大，每天可以扫描1000万个产品清单。阿里巴巴表示，结果它在12个月内就主动下架了3.8亿个可疑产品。
“There are few companies (indeed, none, to our knowledge) that have taken the combination of steps Alibaba has taken, and has concrete plans to take, and certainly none that have put in place measures on the scale of Alibaba’s,” the company told the U.S.T.R.
“很少有公司（实际上，据我们所知一个也没有）采取阿里巴巴这样的组合步骤，制定这些具体的计划，当然也没有哪家公司曾以阿里巴巴这么大的规模落实措施，”这家公司对USTR表示。
Alibaba also argues that many of the complaints against it are unfair. Counterfeiting and piracy are widespread in the Chinese economy. As private businesspeople, Mr. Ma and his team cannot shut down the culprits producing fake goods.
阿里巴巴还认为，许多针对它的投诉是不公平的。假货和盗版在中国经济中非常普遍。作为私营经济参与者，马云和他的团队无法彻底阻止生产假货的负责人。
Additionally, Alibaba suggests that it has been made into a scapegoat. In a statement in December, the company protested that the U.S.T.R. decision “leads us to question whether the U.S.T.R. acted based on the actual facts or was influenced by the current political climate”.
此外，阿里巴巴表示，它已经成了替罪羊。在12月的一份声明中，公司抗议称，美国贸易代表办公室的决定“不得不令我们质疑，这一决定是否基于事实，还是受到当前政治氛围所影响”。
The U.S.T.R. and industry experts contend that there is a lot more Alibaba could and should be doing to tackle fakes.
美国贸易代表办公室与业内专家认为，在处理假货上，阿里巴巴本可以，也本应该做更多事情。
“They are a leading technology company,” said Stephen Lamar, executive vice president at the American Apparel & Footwear Association, which represents many brands hurt by counterfeiting. “It is our hope that they use this technology to develop solutions and make sure those solutions are available for everybody.”
“他们是一家领先的技术公司，”美国服装和鞋业协会(American Apparel ＆ Footwear Association)执行副总裁史蒂芬·拉马(Stephen Lamar)说，“我们希望他们使用这些技术来开发解决方案，并确保所有人都能获得这些解决方案。”这家协会代表了许多受假货影响的品牌。
The U.S.T.R. notorious-markets report cited the extra challenges that small and medium enterprises face in dealing with fakes on Taobao. Smaller firms have a harder time qualifying for Alibaba’s streamlined program for removing fakes, the report said, which means small firms often encounter more bureaucracy and longer response times than some large ones. The report said that businesses regularly experience problems with Alibaba’s reporting system, including persistent error messages that stall submissions.
美国贸易代表办公室那份恶名市场报告引述了中小企业在处理淘宝上的假货时所面临的额外挑战。报告说，在向阿里巴巴要求移除假货的快速流程中，小型公司更难以符合条件，这意味着小公司往往要比大公司遇到更多的繁杂程序和更长的响应时间。该报告说，企业经常遇到阿里巴巴报告系统的问题，包括持续的错误消息，从而延迟提交。
For small enterprises, fighting fakes on Alibaba’s sites “can become expensive, it can become frustrating, it can take time away from your sales, marketing and other creative endeavors,” Mr. Lamar said.
对于小企业来说，打击阿里巴巴网站上的假货“可能会很昂贵，可能变得令人沮丧，可能会花费本应用于销售、营销和其他创造性工作的时间，”拉马说。
An Alibaba spokesman said that suggestions that small businesses do not get its attention are “false” and that they can qualify for the streamlined process if their submissions prove reliable. He added that its process for removing suspect listings is in place to address the large number of fraudulent claims the firm receives.
一位阿里巴巴发言人表示，小企业没有得到关注的说法是“错误的”，如果他们提交的信息被证明是可靠的，就可以符合快速流程。他补充说，阿里巴巴移除可疑商品信息的流程已经到位，可以解决该公司收到的大量假货投诉。
“There are places that our systems can be improved to make them more effective, efficient and user-friendly,” he said, “and we are working hard every day to make these improvements a reality.”
“我们的系统在一些地方可以有所改进，使它们更有效，效率更高，更加用户友好，”他说，“我们每天都在努力使这些改进成为现实。” 
Thinking Small
从小处着眼
Michelle Stennett, 38, a jewelry maker in Suwanee, Ga., found out counterfeiters had stolen her designs during a trip to Yiwu in eastern China in 2012 to buy supplies. Upon returning home, Ms. Stennett scoured Alibaba.com — an Alibaba platform that sells around the world — and discovered shop after shop selling copies of her wares.
38岁的米歇尔·史泰尼(Michelle Stennett)是佐治亚州苏旺尼的一名首饰制造商。2012年，她在中国东部城市义乌购买原料时发现仿造者窃取了她的设计。返回家乡后，史泰妮在Alibaba.com上搜索——这是阿里巴巴在全世界的销售平台——发现很多店铺在销售她的首饰的仿制品。
She first tried contacting the stores directly, ordering them to take down the offending goods. Some complied, but others didn’t. Next she filed a couple of complaints to Alibaba, asking the firm to remove the copies. Although those were successful, she quickly realized that the scale of the problem and the paperwork Alibaba required were too much for her to handle as a one-person business.
她首先试着直接联系那些店铺，要求他们撤下假冒商品。有些店铺同意配合，但也有些不予理会。接下来，她向阿里巴巴提出了几起投诉，要求该公司撤掉那些仿制品。虽然那些努力取得了成功，但她很快意识到问题的规模，对她这个一人公司来说，阿里巴巴要求提供的文件是太过沉重的负担。
“There was no way I could go through the process,” she said. There were “too many.”
“我不可能完成所有那些手续，”她说。“太多了”。
Despondent, Ms. Stennett said she stopped making jewelry for nearly a year. “If someone is going to take my design and mass-produce it, it is hard for me to compete with them,” she said. When she resumed, in 2013, she decided to source her components only from American suppliers, hoping to make it harder for counterfeiters to replicate her products.
沮丧的史泰尼表示，她有近一年的时间没有制作首饰。“如果有人窃取我的设计去批量生产，我很难和他们竞争，”她说。2013年，她重新开始生产后，决定只从美国供应商那里购买配件，希望这能让造假者更难复制她的产品。
Now Ms. Stennett rarely checks Alibaba, afraid of what she’ll find. After a quick search of Alibaba.com one day in March, she spotted an image of one of her pendants, which she reported to Alibaba. It is no longer on the platform, but she said she still does not have time to hunt for fakes.
现在，史泰尼很少查看阿里巴巴，害怕看到她会发现的东西。今年3月的一天，在快速搜索阿里巴巴网站后，她发现了自己设计的一款吊坠的图片，她向阿里巴巴报告了此事。现在，那款商品不在那个平台上了，但她说她还是没时间去搜索假货。
“You’re losing out on money,” she said, “because time is money.”
“那样你就等于是亏钱，”她说，“因为时间就是金钱。”
Alibaba did not respond to a request for comment on Ms. Stennett’s predicament.
阿里巴巴没有回应关于史泰尼困境的置评请求。
In Los Angeles, Color Long simply had no idea how to tackle her counterfeiting problem. The 46-year-old founder of the clothing line Reignland Concept started creating, sewing and selling her children’s wear and marketing it online in 2015. Even today, she makes most of the 200 pieces of clothing she sells each month herself, with one assistant.
洛杉矶的科洛·朗(Color Long)根本不知道该如何应对假货问题。46岁的朗是Reignland Concept服装系列的创始人，2015年，她开始设计、缝制和销售童装，并在网上推广。即使到现在，她每月所售出的200件衣服中，大部分依然是她在一名助手的帮助下亲手制作的。
Last year, a friend told her that she had found her designs being sold by a store in Australia. Confused, Ms. Long contacted the proprietor, who informed her she had purchased the clothing on Alibaba.com and had no idea the designs were originally from Reignland. Ms. Long looked at the Alibaba shop and was shocked to find a picture of her own son, one of the models in her promotional material, being used to peddle fakes of her clothing.
去年，一位朋友告诉她，自己发现澳大利亚的一家商店在销售她设计的衣服。朗在困惑之中联系了店主，后者告诉她衣服是从阿里巴巴网站买来的，店主完全不知道那些设计最初来自Reignland。朗查看了阿里巴巴的那家店，震惊地发现自己儿子的一张照片被用来兜售她的衣服的仿制品。她的儿子是她宣传材料中的模特之一。
Ms. Long did not know she could ask Alibaba for assistance in removing these counterfeits. Instead, she contacted several shops, which, in some cases, have cooperated and removed the offending products. But Ms. Long blames the spread of copies from Alibaba for the sudden decline in sales of one of her best-selling products, a pair of children’s pants.
朗不知道自己可以要求阿里巴巴协助撤下这些假冒商品。她联系了几家店铺，在某些情况下，这些店铺愿意合作，撤下了假冒产品。不过，朗指责阿里巴巴假货的泛滥导致她的一条畅销童裤销量突然下滑。
A few months ago, she had been selling about 30 a week, she said. Now, she moves only five a month.
她说，几个月前，她每周大约能卖出30条，现在每个月只能卖掉5条。
Under the Table
台面之下
Mr. Hankerson had worked at his father’s financial firm and in I.T. services, building websites, before he began tinkering with furniture.
汉克森开始鼓捣家具之前，曾在父亲的金融公司和IT行业工作，负责建立网站。
He unexpectedly started Vintage in 2009, when his wife said she wanted a new patio table. Mr. Hankerson hammered one together and posted a picture on a website. He began making more tables and advertising them on the internet, too. “I loved the experience so much that I just wanted to make a better table,” he said. “Like a mad artist.”
2009年，他的妻子说想要一张新的露台餐桌，他因此意外地创立了Vintage公司。汉克森敲敲打打，做出了一张桌子，并把它的照片发布在一个网站上。他开始制作更多的桌子，也在互联网上推广。“我非常喜欢这种经历，我只想做一张更好的桌子，”他说，“就像一个疯狂的艺术家。”
Today, the Vintage factory is abuzz with the sounds of welding, sawing and hammering. There is one nod to modern automation — a recently acquired computerized steel-cutting machine — but much of the manufacturing is done by specially trained employees with woodworking or metalworking skills.
如今，Vintage的工厂充满焊接、锯切和锤击的声音。最近，他购买了一个电脑切割机，算是实现了一点现代自动化，但大部分生产是由经专门培训，具有木工或金属加工技能的员工完成的。
While his business was quickly growing, Mr. Hankerson had no idea counterfeiters were profiting off his work as well.
虽然汉克森的公司很快壮大了，但他并不知道假冒者也在从他的工作中渔利。
He first learned he had a problem in 2014, when he spotted an advertisement on Facebook that included a photo of one of his A-frame tables. He contacted the seller, who said she had bought the merchandise from elsewhere. Intrigued and worried, Mr. Hankerson began searching for images of his designs using Google, and he discovered many of them around the web.
他第一次发现这个问题是在2014年，当时他在Facebook上看见一个广告，其中包含一张他的A字桌的照片。他联系了卖家，后者说她是从其他地方购得这件商品。汉克森又好奇又担忧，开始用谷歌搜索自己设计的产品的照片，他在网上找到了许多。
“You would find one image, and you go and look at their catalog on Alibaba, and there’s another and another and another,” he said. “It’s going down the rabbit hole.”
“你找到一张照片，然后在阿里巴巴上看看它所在的类别，你就能找到一个又一个，”他说，“就像掉进兔子洞。”
Many shops promote these fakes with pictures lifted from Mr. Hankerson’s own website. One photo bouncing around Taobao features a Vintage console with framed snapshots of Mr. Hankerson and his family still hanging on the wall above it.
许多店铺用从汉克森的网站上搞到的照片推广这些假货。在淘宝弹出的一张复古橱柜的照片中，汉克森和家人带框的快照照片还挂在家具上方的墙上。
Some Taobao sellers admit they get their designs from Mr. Hankerson. Liao Xiaoting, a customer service provider at Shang Jie Crafts Company, said her firm’s designers use them as “reference” to make their own furniture, with changes, mainly to the materials.
一些淘宝卖家承认他们是从汉克森那里获得的设计。尚捷工艺品有限公司的客服人员廖晓婷表示，她公司的设计师们以那些设计为“参考”制作自己的家具，主要是在材料方面进行了一些改动。
Huang Geqing, proprietor of a Taobao shop called Creative Iron Factory, said that he copies Vintage’s designs, manufactures replicas in Fujian province in eastern China, and uses Mr. Hankerson’s photos to promote his own products. He first found Vintage’s designs marketed on other Taobao stores, then traced them back to the original source.
名为创意铁工厂的淘宝店的店主黄歌清表示，他仿照Vintage的设计，在中国东部的福建省生产仿制品，然后用汉克森的照片推广自己的产品。他最初是看到其他淘宝店在出售Vintage的设计，然后追溯到了它们的来源。
Mr. Huang estimates 100 shops may be selling fakes of Mr. Hankerson’s furniture. The style “is quite popular in China,” he said. “We can make something exactly like it.”
据黄歌清估计，可能有100家淘宝店在销售汉克森家具的仿制品。这种风格“现在国内比较流行，”他说。“我们可以做出一模一样的东西”。
Mr. Hankerson said he had no idea how many of these fakes can be found outside of China. Though some of these likely counterfeits have been on Taobao, which has primarily Chinese users, he has also spotted them on the globally focused Alibaba.com.
汉克森说，他不知道在中国境外能找到多少这样的假货。虽然其中一些出现在以中国用户为主的淘宝上，但他也在面向全球的Alibaba.com网站上找到了它们。
One furniture maker in India, Raja Rani Art Handicrafts, said two pieces of furniture it sells on Alibaba.com are based on Mr. Hankerson’s designs. “This design is from Vintage Industrial, but we also manufacture the same design in our company,” said Bobby Shukhla, who answered queries from The New York Times.
印度家具制造商拉贾·拉尼艺术工艺品公司(Raja Rani Art Handicrafts)表示，它在阿里巴巴网站销售的两件家具是基于汉克森的设计。“这个设计来自Vintage Industrial，但是我们公司也生产相同的设计。”鲍比·舒克拉(Bobby Shukhla)在回复《纽约时报》的询问时说。
Mr. Hankerson tried contacting sellers directly, asking them to take down his images. Most of them complied. He was also encouraged when Alibaba staff members removed all of the photos he targeted on Alibaba.com through its infringement-fighting process.
汉克森试着直接联系卖家，要求他们撤掉他的图片。大多数卖家同意配合。阿里巴巴员工撤掉了他通过打击侵权流程在Alibaba.com 网站上找到的所有照片，这也令他受到鼓舞。
But then he ran into difficulties. Last year, the website through which he could send Alibaba requests to remove suspect listings stopped working. He tried submitting and resubmitting the required paperwork on the site, even on different computers, only to have it return error messages.
不过之后他遇到了困难。去年，本来他可以向阿里巴巴发送移除可疑照片请求的网站停止运行了。他用不同的电脑在该网站上多次尝试提交所需的文件，结果都因信息错误而被退回。
An Alibaba spokesman, in written responses, said that in October the company started an improved online system through which companies and people can report possible infringement on any of its platforms. He said that Mr. Hankerson has not tried to use this new system. Mr. Hankerson said he had but could not get it to work.
阿里巴巴的一位发言人在书面答复中表示，去年10月，该公司开始启用一个改进后的在线系统，公司和个人可以在它的任何一个平台上报告可能的侵权行为。他说汉克森并没有尝试使用这个新系统。汉克森称，他试过，但是没有成功。
Mr. Hankerson decided to step up his efforts. In August, he sent emails to Alibaba’s investor and public relations departments threatening to raise a public ruckus about fakes on its sites.
汉克森决定做出进一步努力。去年8月，他给阿里巴巴的投资者和公共关系部发送邮件，威胁要就该网站的假货公开大闹一场。
A manager at Alibaba’s intellectual property protection department reached out. Mr. Hankerson handed over lists of more than 400 suspect images, only some of which were removed. Many of them, Mr. Hankerson was informed, were on a different Alibaba system and had to be removed through a separate process, which has not yet been undertaken.
阿里巴巴知识产权保护部的一名经理跟他取得了联系。汉克森提交了一份包含400多张可疑照片的清单，只有其中一些被删除了。汉克森被告知，其中很多在阿里巴巴的另一个系统上，必须通过一个尚未开始运行的单独程序予以删除。
He argued that he shouldn’t have to go to such lengths to get Alibaba to act. Once Alibaba has been made aware of his company’s intellectual property, he said, the firm should proactively prevent additional postings of his photos or clean any suspect products from its platforms. Yet despite Alibaba’s boast to the U.S.T.R., combing the millions of listings could be difficult or expensive.
汉克斯认为自己不应该费这么大力气才迫使阿里巴巴采取行动。他认为，阿里巴巴一旦知道知识产权属于他的公司，就应该主动防止他的更多照片被发布，或清理自己平台上的任何可疑产品。然而，尽管阿里巴巴向美国贸易代表办公室夸下海口，但筛查成百上千万件商品可能是困难或昂贵的。
Mr. Hankerson tracks images with the help of a service called Plaghunter, which both regularly monitors the use of his photos on the web, including Alibaba’s sites, and allows him to conduct a search when needed. What frustrated him the most, he said, is that the same photos keep appearing on the company’s marketplaces.
汉克森借助一个名为Plaghunter的软件追踪这些图片，该软件能够定期监视他的照片在网上的使用情况——包括在阿里巴巴的网站上——还能让他在需要时进行搜索。他说，最令他沮丧的是，同样的照片不断出现在阿里巴巴的市场上。
“It should be click and forget,” he said. “Our products should never be on their site.”
“这本来应该是一劳永逸的，”他说，“我们的产品本应该再也不会出现在他们的网站上。”
An Alibaba spokesman said the company had tried to work with Mr. Hankerson to remove his images and resolve his technical problems. “It’s important to note that the primary responsibility of protecting a brand rests with the brand itself,” the spokesman wrote in an email.
阿里巴巴的一位发言人表示，该公司曾试图与汉克森合作，移除他的照片，解决他的技术问题。“需要指出的是，保护品牌的主要责任在于品牌本身，”这位发言人在接受邮件采访时写道。
Additionally, Alibaba disputes the idea that it tolerates fakes. Intellectual property infringement “hurts Alibaba’s business and reputation,” the spokesman said. “It doesn’t matter whether the infringement is against big brands or small companies.”
此外，阿里巴巴否认自己容忍假货。这位发言人表示，知识产权侵权“伤害阿里巴巴的业务和声誉”，“不管侵权针对的是大品牌还是小公司。”
Mr. Hankerson remains unmollified. He is talking to lawyers about his options and is trying to rally other small-business owners to the cause.
汉克森依然没有释怀。他在和律师商谈自己还可以采取哪些行动，并试图召集其他小企业主参与这项事业。
“They want to have all those counterfeits,” he said, “and they want to make money off of it.”
“他们想保留所有假货，”他说，“他们想从中赚钱。”