As the recognition of the danger of outdoor air pollution in China grows, health authorities are trying to use that knowledge to raise awareness of an even deadlier health threat: smoking. China has about 350 million smokers, and despite efforts to reduce consumption, tobacco is still widely consumed, and about half of adult males are regular smokers, according to surveys.
随着中国民众对室外空气污染危害的认识加深，卫生部门正试图借助这种知识来提高对一种更为危险的健康威胁的意识：吸烟。调查显示，中国有3.5亿左右的烟民；尽管存在诸多方面的努力，烟草消费仍很普遍，约一半的成年男性经常抽烟。
Two years ago China’s health ministry introduced a ban on smoking in restaurants and other public places, but the measure included no penalties and is widely ignored. Production of cigarettes, almost all for domestic consumption, has climbed 50 percent over the last decade, according to a 2013 report by the Beijing-based Think Tank Research Center for Health Development.
两年前，中国卫生部推出了在餐馆等公共场所的禁烟令，不过，此项规定没有惩罚机制，被广泛无视。北京的智库卫生发展研究中心2013年发表的一份报告显示，过去10年间，国内烟草生产量攀升了50%。而中国的烟草生产几乎全部用于国内消费。
Efforts to curb smoking have faltered in China, and researchers say awareness of the health risks of smoking has trailed developed nations. But awareness of the dangers of air pollution has climbed rapidly in recent years, as the government has begun releasing real-time air quality data and cities have issued emergency plans for pollution emergencies. Episodes of extreme smog — in Beijing in January, in Harbin in October and in Shanghai and much of east China earlier this month, has triggered a broad discussion in China of the dangerous side effects of the rising number of cars and the country’s rapid industrial growth.
在中国，不仅控烟努力受挫，而且研究人员表示，民众对吸烟健康风险的认识也落后于发达国家。不过，由于政府开始公布实时空气质量数据，各大城市相继制订污染应急计划，民众对空气污染危害性的认识近年来突飞猛进。极端烟雾事件——今年1月在北京、10月在哈尔滨，以及本月早些时候在上海及中国东部大部分地区——引发了对汽车保有量持续上升与工业快速增长的危险副作用的大规模讨论。
PM 2.5, the fine particles in bad air that are particularly harmful to human health, was once an obscure metric to most Chinese. It is now the name of one of the country’s most popular brands of face mask, as Marketplace reported in February.
污染空气中的细颗粒物PM 2.5对人体健康尤为有害。这一指标过去不为多数中国人所知，而Marketplace今年2月的报告指出，它如今成为了中国口罩业最流行的招牌之一。
Zhang Shu, head of pulmonary medicine at the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital in Beijing, told the Beijing News that under normal conditions indoor air pollution is influenced by conditions outside, but in a closed environment tobacco smoke can make indoor conditions even worse.
中日友好医院中医肺病科主任医师张纾难在接受《新京报》采访时表示，室内污染通常与室外超标有着直接关系，但在封闭空间里，抽烟会造成室内状况比室外要差。
“Many people complain about smog but they forget about someone smoking inside, that’s often a worse source of pollution,” the newspaper said. One recent study showed that a smoker indoors can experience levels of PM 2.5 as high as 630 micrograms per cubic meter. A nonsmoker sitting nearby experienced concentrations up to 160. By comparison, the World Health Organization’s recommended limit is 25 micrograms per cubic meter for 24-hour exposure.
“许多人在抱怨雾霾时却忘了，室内吸烟的人往往是比雾霾更严重的污染源，”文中称。近期的一项研究显示，室内吸烟者的PM 2.5暴露水平可高达630微克每立方米。坐在附近吸二手烟的人的暴露浓度可达160。相比之下，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)建议的24小时暴露限值是25微克每立方米。
The Beijing News cited a group of volunteers who measured indoor air pollution at 51 Beijing restaurants this year. Those that banned smoking had an average PM 2.5 concentration of 40, those that had separate smoking and non-smoking sections had an average of 184 and those that didn’t restrict smoking had a PM 2.5 level of 280.
《新京报》的报道中援引了一群志愿者今年在北京51家餐厅检测室内空气污染的报告。无烟餐厅、吸烟区与无烟区分开的餐厅和完全不禁烟餐厅的PM 2.5均值分别为40、184和280。
Over the last 30 years lung cancer as a cause of death has increased by 465 percent, according to a recent conference. Smoking and pollution are both significant factors in that frightening figure. Outdoor air pollution was linked with 1.2 million premature deaths in China, according to an analysis of data first published in the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study. The same study found that tobacco smoking was responsible for a slightly higher number of deaths, after dietary risks and high blood pressure.
近期举办的一次论坛称，中国因肺癌死亡的人数在过去30年间上升了465%。在这一骇人听闻的数据背后，吸烟与污染均是重要因素。最先在《2010年全球致病量研究》(2010 Global Burden of Disease Study)中公布的数据分析显示，中国每年有120万人的早逝与室外空气污染有关。该项研究还得出结论，吸烟导致的死亡稍高于这一数据，仅次于饮食风险与高血压。