Kerry Ryan needed a new place to live; her crazy Yugoslavian roommate had become unbearable. So, as people did in 1991 in New York City, she turned to the classified ads in The Village Voice.
下面的故事发生在二十世纪90年代初。鉴于和来自南斯拉夫的神经质女室友的关系越来越僵，凯莉打算为自己换个住处。和当时多数在纽约闯荡的人找房子一样，凯莉开始在当地一份叫做乡村之音的报纸的分类广告中查找租房信息。
Ms. Ryan was 21 at the time and had immigrated from her native Ireland only a month and a half earlier for an internship in the fashion industry. She was naïve, by her own description, but apparently not lacking in gumption.
刚刚从爱尔兰来到纽约仅一个半月的21岁的新移民凯莉在纽约时尚圈做实习生。她是个天真的女孩，天真不乏睿智的那种，至少她自己是这么认为的。
The ad said: “29th & 3rd Ave-3 mos. poss longer. M seeks non-smoking F, strictly Platonic. Own room in 2BR apt. elev bldg A/C.”
其中一条合租广告是这样的“地点29大街与3大街交口，租期至少3个月，房型及设施为电梯公寓带空调，两室中一室出租，男房东自住另外一室，租客要求为不吸烟女性，注：平时相处仅限精神交流层面。”
She called the listed number, and the man who answered the phone invited her to come check out the place.
凯莉接通了广告中的电话，接电话的男人随即邀请她去看房。
That man, John Juback, then 43, was a stage actor, born in the Bronx and raised in New Jersey. He had been living alone in a small, two-bedroom apartment in Kips Bay and for reasons that he can no longer remember — perhaps he needed some extra money for something, he said — he had decided to sublet the second bedroom. He had rented to a woman once before, a college student who spent a summer in the city, and it had gone very well. So he decided to try it again.
男人名叫查若望，就是房东。他那年43岁，生于纽约布朗区，长于新泽西，是个舞台剧演员。若望一直独居在这个位于吉普湾的面积不大的两居室公寓里。也许是出于赚些零用钱的考虑或者其他连他自己也不记得的原因他才打算分租的。若望之前唯一的租客是个女大学生，在纽约呆了一个暑假就离开了。因为他觉得与人合租感觉还不错，所以才打算继续找新租客。
Mr. Juback hoped the ad would provide public reassurance that he was not laying some sort of trap. Furthermore, he was in a long-term relationship.
当时若望和凯莉解释说，他觉得自己在租房广告中写的比如“至多精神交流”都是事实，因为他本人的确是个谦谦君子并且他和女友关系非常稳定。
“I wanted to really make the women feel comfortable,” he said.
“我说那些就是想让她感觉住在这里不会有任何麻烦。”回忆起当年的情景，若望解释说。
Things did not start off that way. As Ms. Ryan, wearing a dress printed with sunflowers, ascended the stairs to the apartment on Aug. 16, Mr. Juback, standing in his doorway, exclaimed: “Well, look at you!” (“I always thought that was terrible,” she said. Mr. Juback, for his part, said he did not intend the comment to be provocative: “She looked great!”)
然而事情并非如想象的那样简单。凯莉记得去若望家看房的那天是八月十六号，那天她穿的是一件满是向日葵花图案的连衣裙。当她爬楼梯快接近公寓门口时，站在走廊里迎候她的若望情不自禁的喊道：“哇！你长得真靓！”（对于若望当时的表现，凯莉说她一直觉得那样的直率令她不快，然而若望对此的评价是凯莉的确很漂亮而且他也没想到他的反应会被视为过激行为。）
Still, the “interview,” as Ms. Ryan calls it, seemed to go fine.
尽管伴随着这样的小插曲，这次看房经历或者用凯莉自己的话叫做“面试经历”总体感觉还是不错的。
“I met him, I thought: ‘O.K., here’s this dude. He’s not really what I was thinking about as a roommate type. He’s a lot older than I am. I was just off the plane. I had never been to the United States before. He’s a New Yorker. He’s an actor. He’s really out there.’” But it was the best option she had.
“我见到他时最初感受是“欧！他就是房东！他完全不是我想象中室友的样子，他比我大那么多。我是个这辈子第一次来美国的刚下飞机的异乡人，而他是个地地道道的纽约人并且还是个演员。他和我差距太大了。”不过，对凯莉而言这个室友将是她最好的选择。
“I didn’t know about John,” she continued, “but it was better than living with the Yugoslavian lady.”
“尽管我当时一点也不了解他，但是和那个南斯拉夫女孩比，作为室友他只会更好不会更差。”
Days passed without word from Mr. Juback. So Ms. Ryan, who grew up in Fethard, a village in County Tipperary, started calling. It was the era of answering machines, which mystified Ms. Ryan. (“We didn’t have answering machines where I came from,” she said.) Though she was brave enough to start a new life in New York at 21, her courage flagged at the sound of the beep.
然而看完房后接下来的几天若望并没有联系凯莉。于是，作为从堤波镇筏子村长大的农村姑娘，凯莉选择了主动出击。那是个使用带答录功能电话机的年代，而凯莉从没用过答录机。（“当时在我们老家我们没用过这东西。”凯莉回忆说）虽然年仅21岁的凯莉选择在纽约开始新生活体现了她过人的勇气，但是答录机的哔哔声还是令她不知所措。
It was also, of course, the era of real-time message-screening, of which Mr. Juback was an accomplished practitioner.
那个年代接电话时使用实时信息过滤功能（不熟悉的电话会被挂掉）已经很普遍并且更糟糕的是查若望又偏偏热衷于此。
There were a lot of hang-ups. Ms. Ryan, using pay phones, ate through a stack of quarters.
因此当凯莉使用投币电话打给若望时，电话基本都被他挂断。
Finally, she mustered the courage to leave a message. “Hi, John. This is Kerry,” she began hesitantly. Mr. Juback, listening in his apartment, picked up immediately. “I’d love for you to be my roommate,” he blurted. He had lost her number.
最终，凯莉鼓起勇气给若望留言。“若望，你好，我是凯莉”她试探性的说道。若望在他公寓里收到这则留言后，他马上电话回复了凯莉。“我非常欢迎你过来合租。“他迫不及待地说。其实，他之前没联系凯莉是因为把她的电话号弄丢了。
Ms. Ryan moved in at the end of August after sneaking out of her old apartment, her belongings stuffed in two garbage bags, because the Yugoslavian woman had forbidden her to leave.
就这样，凯莉在八月底搬进了新居。因为那个南斯拉夫女孩不准她搬走，她只能偷偷地搬家，以至于用于搬行李的包裹是两个大垃圾袋。
Mr. Juback had a busy professional life and a serious girlfriend. Ms. Ryan, on the other hand, “tore the city apart,” she said, hitting clubs at night and dating voraciously. “I had a lot of men in the city. I did the United Nations.” (“Don’t put that in!” she quickly added. Then just as quickly: “O.K., O.K. Put it in.”)
当时查若望工作很忙并且他也在认真地谈着恋爱。相反，凯莉是夜店的常客并且疯狂地和各种男人约会。用她自己的话形容那时的生活方式是“浪翻天”。凯莉回忆说，“城市各个角落都能找到我的男友，他们加在一起都能成立联合国了！”（”没你想象的那么放荡！“凯莉补充道，不过，接着承认说“不过的确挺放荡的！”）
Mr. Juback said he admired how “fancy free” she was and recalled one emblematic scene from that time. He was coming home in a taxi late one winter night and spotted Ms. Ryan walking alone down Third Avenue. “It was 1 or 2 in the morning,” he said. “There was a light coat of snow on the ground, and Kerry was doing a sort of loose, laid-back version of a German lock step. She was kicking snow up as she was walking. She was pretty much the only person on Third Avenue.”
回忆起当年，若望说那时他还真挺羡慕她那么天马行空的自由自在。他还清晰的记得第一年合住时一个终身难忘的场景：那年冬天的深夜，坐出租车回家的若望看到凯莉独自一人在三大街游荡。“大概是凌晨一两点钟吧！”他说，“马路上覆盖着一层轻雪，凯莉在马路上闲散踱着方步，边走边踢起路上的薄雪。整个三大街上就她一个人。”
The two gradually became very good friends. They went out for meals, drank, took walks and hung out. They made each other laugh and confided in each other. “We talked talked talked talked talked talked,” Ms. Ryan recalled.
若望和凯莉慢慢成了非常要好的朋友。他们一起下馆子，一起去夜店，一起散步，一起出门。他们相互逗乐，彼此信任。“我们在一起就说个没完！”凯莉说。
For a long time, the thought of something more did not really occur to either of them.
即便如此，在相当长的时间里，他们两个人都没有那种超越友谊的想法。
Mr. Juback’s first inkling of deeper feelings came one night in early 1992. Ms. Ryan had joined his girlfriend and his sister for a performance of “Search and Destroy” at the Circle in the Square Theater; Mr. Juback was in the cast. Afterward, they had all gone to Joe Allen’s for dinner.
若望对凯莉产生特别的感觉始于次年即1992年初的一个晚上。那天，凯莉和若望的女友以及若望的姐姐一起去百老汇知名的方圆戏曲学院看若望参演的舞台剧《寻觅与毁灭》。演出结束后他们一起去周艾伦私房菜吃晚餐。
Mr. Juback’s relationship with his girlfriend had begun to wane, and over dinner he thought to himself that he wanted to find “someone just like Kerry, only older.”
那时若望与女友的关系已大不如前，若望边吃饭边幻想他能找个和凯莉一样但是年龄稍大些的女友。
Still, he kept his distance. “I didn’t want to be a lech,” he said. “My whole deal was, ‘I’m not going to be one of those guys,’ so I didn’t make any moves.”
然而，若望还是努力确保他与凯莉的关系在友谊范围内。他回忆说，“我当时的想法是‘我不能占凯莉的便宜，我不能成为那样的混蛋’，因此，我没有采取任何行动来推进我们的关系。”
For Ms. Ryan, something shifted decisively on the cusp of that summer. She had an opportunity to rent a great apartment on Delancey Street and suggested to Mr. Juback that they look at it together. He was reluctant to move for practical reasons: He had a good deal on his place and did not want to give it up.
1992年夏天的某天，对于凯莉而言很特别，因为她对若望的感情变得更微妙。那时，她曾想搬到位于德兰街的一间更好的公寓。她希望若望能和她一块去看房。然而若望不愿意，他的理由显得很实际：他向凯莉收的租金并不高并且他也不想让她走。
In the course of this discussion, Ms. Ryan realized she did not want to move without him. That realization led to an even deeper epiphany. “I decided I wanted him,” she said. “And that was it.”
在商量搬家的过程中，凯莉意识到她不想搬走是因为她不愿意和若望分开。这样的直觉升华成一种领悟。“我想和他生活在一块儿，就是这么简单！”凯莉回忆说。
“I made it my business to go about getting him.”
“我开始主动追求他。”
So began what Ms. Ryan calls “the whole hot buildup.”
因此，两个人的恋人关系开始如凯莉所言“迅速升温”。
As the summer heat escalated, so did the electricity between them.
和夏日骄阳那样，他们的感情变得越来越炽热。
There was the night Mr. Juback massaged Ms. Ryan’s feet when she hobbled into the apartment after breaking her heel at a club.
他们曾经度过这样难以忘怀的夜晚：凯莉在俱乐部挫伤后脚跟，当她蹦回公寓后若望忙着帮她按摩。
There was the trip to hear evensong at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, after which their eyes met knowingly as they picked out peaches at a street vendor’s stand (“dripping fruit,” Ms. Ryan noted).
他们曾经度过这样难以忘怀的旅程：在圣约翰大教堂一起听晚祈，然后一起一边在路边的水果摊挑桃子一边眉目传情。（“多汁的那种水蜜桃！”凯莉强调道。）
There was the time Mr. Juback bought sunflowers, which Ms. Ryan read as a poetic echo of the dress she had worn the day they met; the time Mr. Juback asked Ms. Ryan to recommend a scent for him; the time he invited her to watch the film “Swept Away.”
他们一起度过了无数甜蜜时光。比如，当若望买给凯莉一束向日葵花。在凯莉的眼里，向日葵有非凡的意义：它既妆点了他们初次相逢时她的衣装，同时也是若望对此刻骨铭心的明证。比如，当若望要凯莉给他推荐香水品牌，当若望带凯莉一起看那部叫做《浩劫妙冤家》的电影。
“There was this whole question in the air,” she said.
凯莉回忆说，“连空气中也充满了甜蜜的味道。”
In mid-August, Ms. Ryan secretly made strawberry shortcake, one of Mr. Juback’s favorite desserts, in honor of the first anniversary of their meeting. “I made it from scratch,” she said, “because that’s what I was brought up to do.”
到了八月中旬，为了迎接并庆祝他们初次见面日，凯莉偷偷做了若望最喜欢的甜点之一草莓花式蛋糕。“做蛋糕对我来说完全是全新尝试，不过我就是在这样勤于动手的家庭里成长起来的。”凯莉回忆道。
On Aug. 16, she reached into the refrigerator and said, “Look what I made you.” As he went to kiss her on the cheek, she swiveled and met his lips with hers. The kiss was momentary, somewhere between chaste and lustful.
1992年8月16日，凯莉打开冰箱对若望说：“猜猜我做了什么特别的好东西给你？”若望走过来准备亲一下凯莉的脸颊表示谢意，凯莉却及时地倾了下头，于是四唇相接。这一吻时间并不长，介于纯洁的初吻和情人的热吻之间。不过他们还是克制着没有上床。
They kept each other at bay until the next day, when, after returning home from brunch at the Noho Star, their resistance melted.
第二天，在一家名为诺星的饭店吃过晚早餐后，他们一起回到公寓，这次他们没有再犹豫。
Neither knew where they were headed. “I was, like, ‘Was that an accident between roommates?’ ” Mr. Juback recalled. But it continued.
然而，对这份友谊转变成的恋情，他们对未来都没有把握。“我这样安慰自己‘这也许仅仅是异性合租伙伴的偶尔越轨而已吧！’“若望回忆道。不过，事实证明他错了。
Early on, Mr. Juback urged caution. He worried that Ms. Ryan might wake up someday, decide she wanted someone younger and move on.
刚开始，若望不断提醒自己。他怀疑凯莉总有一天会翻然醒悟转而找个更年轻的男友并离开他。
“He told me he worried that I was messing around with him,” she said.
“他和我说他担心我就是和他玩玩，说我没有把这份感情当真。”凯莉回忆说。
The weeks became months. She kept the relationship a secret from her parents, knowing that they would not approve. But she blew her cover with a misstep. She had written separately to her sister and her mother, mentioning the relationship in the letter to her sister but omitting it in the letter to her mother.
慢慢地，两人的恋情从持续几周变成了持续几个月。凯莉对告诉父母隐瞒了自己的恋情因为怕他们反对。但是她还是因为失误而漏了马脚。事情的经过是这样的：她给她姐和她妈分别写了一封信，给她姐的信里她提到了这份恋情，但是给她妈的信里却没有提。
Then she switched the envelopes.
但不幸的是，她把信装错了信封。
Ms. Ryan’s parents were livid, refusing to accept her choice of a boyfriend. “World War III,” Mr. Juback said. “Kerry’s mother would write letters telling her to come to her senses.”
凯莉的父母得知此事后勃然大怒并且完全反对她自己做出的对另一半的选择。“当时简直是经历了第三次世界大战！凯莉妈要写信给她告诫她别犯傻。”若望回忆道。
(“John, Mammy may read this,” she interjected, referring to her mother. “Good!” he replied.)
（“若望！老妈很可能能读到这个故事！”凯莉插嘴提醒道，当然她指她老妈。“看到就看到吧！”若望说。）
It would be several long years — not until the couple decided to marry — before Ms. Ryan’s parents finally accepted their daughter’s choice.
凯莉的父母对这份恋情的反对持续了数年，直到凯莉准备和若望结婚他们才最终接受了女儿的选择。
In 1997, after returning from six months of traveling alone — a trip she took partly to test her commitment to Mr. Juback — Ms. Ryan proposed that they get married. They were on the subway returning from brunch. “I said, ‘Let’s do it,’ ” she recalled.
1997年，凯莉完成了六个月的独自旅行-这次旅行的部分目的是凯莉想考验一下她自己对若望的依恋程度。然后，凯莉正式向若望求婚。那天，就在回家的地铁上，他们刚吃过晚早晨。凯莉回忆说，“当时我说，‘我们准备结婚吧！’”
They married in April 1998 in St. Peter’s Basilica at the Vatican.
1998年4月，凯莉和若望在梵蒂冈的圣彼得大教堂正式结为夫妇。
Both are quick to point out that their marriage, like any long relationship, has not been without its turmoil. They declined to offer much detail except to say that Ms. Ryan — who calls herself “the hothead” in the relationship — once stormed out of the apartment and got a room at the Bowery Hotel in the East Village.
和任何的马拉松爱情一样，这对儿夫妇承认他们的婚姻生活也同样不是一帆风顺的，尽管他们拒绝透露更多细节。不过，他们透露说凯莉还是和婚前恋爱的时候那样脾气火爆。她曾有一次离家出走，并在纽约曼哈顿东村的博为酒店过夜。
Later that night, however, she called Mr. Juback in a gesture of détente to invite him over. In an echo of their first telephonic pas de deux, he missed the call and did not hear her message. Each slept alone. They made up the next day.
不过，离家的当晚凯莉就打电话给若望。她希望通过主动联系作为一种让步的象征并请若望到酒店同住。巧合的是就像当年错过凯莉的电话那样，若望没接电话也没有回她的留言。因此当晚两人各自安歇。还好他们第二天就和好了。
In 2011, after more than a decade of trying to have a child, Ms. Ryan gave birth to their son, Jack.
2011年，受孕未果超过十年的凯莉生下了他们的第一个男孩-孩子名叫杰克。
Apart from the stares of strangers trying to do the math, the age difference between them has not been a big deal. The divide manifests itself only in the realm of technology, they say: Ms. Ryan, who continues to work in the fashion industry, is more comfortable with technology than Mr. Juback, something they both attribute to their having come of age in different epochs.
尽管还是无法阻止陌生人试图猜测他们的年龄差距，年龄差距本身对凯莉和若望的婚姻影响微乎其微。他们表示这仅仅体现在两人对新科技的接受。一方面，凯莉始终在时尚圈工作，因此她较之若望更乐意接受新科技。另一方面，因为他们的确生于不同的年代。
Mr. Juback, who still works as an actor, looks remarkably youthful for his age, and the difference in years seems to fade amid the obvious chemistry and ease between them.
同时，若望一直做他的老本行-演员，因此他看上去比实际年龄年轻很多。并且，随着夫妻间的契合度越来越高年龄差距也变得越来越微不足道。
They now celebrate two key anniversaries in their relationship: the date of their marriage and the date they met, when Ms. Ryan went to see Mr. Juback’s apartment. That older anniversary has greater resonance, in part because it is imbued with the seven-year foundation they built before getting married.
现在他们每年要庆祝两个重大纪念日。一个是他们的结婚纪念日，另一个是他们的初次见面纪念日，就是当凯莉去若望家看房的那一天。后者反而能引起更多的对往事的回忆，部分原因是这婚前七年的”同居”生活为他们的婚姻奠定了牢固的感情基础。
The Village Voice ad that brought them together is now framed in their apartment.
当年发布在乡村之声报纸上的那则租房广告现在放在他们家里，已经被裱起来。
“Good for a laugh, that platonic thing,” Ms. Ryan said.
“精神交流多少事，如今尽付笑谈中。”若望说。