Americans spend an estimated $1.3 billion on fish oil products every year, making them one of the most commonly consumed dietary supplements in the country.
每年美国人在鱼油类产品上的花费大约可达13亿美元，使得此类产品成为了该国最常被食用的膳食补充剂之一。
But do you know what’s in your fish oil?
但是，你可知鱼油产品中都有些什么成分？
A new documentary, “Supplements and Safety,” pulls back the curtain on some of America’s most popular supplements, and it suggests that many people who buy them may not be getting what they are paying for. The program, airing on the PBS investigative series “Frontline” on Tuesday night, is a collaboration between “Frontline,” The New York Times and The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
新纪录片《补充剂与安全》(Supplements and Safety)为您揭开了美国部分最受欢迎的补充剂的神秘面纱，该片表明，许多人其实并没能买到他们想要的东西。此片由美国公共电视网(PBS)的纪实系列节目《前线》(Frontline)、《纽约时报》杂志(The New York Times Magazine)以及加拿大广播公司(The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation)联合出品，并于1月19日晚上在《前线》节目中播出。
The program examines the widespread use of potent vitamins, herbs, fish oil and fat-burning supplements. Millions of Americans use these products safely every year. But researchers have found that in many cases they can cause unexpected side effects. And because dietary supplements are largely unregulated by the federal government, adulteration and contamination are common, experts say.
该片考察了受到广泛使用的强效维生素、草药、鱼油以及“燃烧脂肪”类补充剂。每年都有数百万美国人使用这些产品，且未出现什么安全问题。但研究人员发现，在许多情况下，这些产品也可能会导致意想不到的副作用。专家们表示，由于膳食补充剂基本上不受联邦政府的监管，掺假和污染十分常见。
The Frontline documentary investigates large outbreaks of disease tied to tainted vitamins and fat-burning supplements, including one case in which a workout supplement was linked to more than 70 cases of liver damage. The company whose products were at the center of that outbreak, USPlabs, is among 117 companies and individuals that the Justice Department filed criminal and civil enforcement actions against last year.
《前线》节目这一纪录片调查了与受污染的维生素和“燃烧脂肪”类补充剂有关的几场大规模的疾病暴发，在其中一个案例中，一种运动补充剂被发现与超过70例肝损伤有关。去年，美国司法部(Justice Department)向涉案产品的生产公司USPlabs等117家企业和个人发起了刑事和民事强制执行。
The “Frontline” program follows doctors, patients, industry experts and regulators to uncover the root of these outbreaks. It looks at whether the widespread use of vitamin D and other popular vitamins that are commonly sold and taken in high doses can do more harm than good. One that it focuses on is fish oil, the third most popular supplement in America, which is used by at least one in 10 adults.
《前线》的该节目追寻医生、患者，行业专家以及监管部门的足迹，挖掘这些爆发的根源。他们调查了普遍售卖的维生素D和其他常见的维生素产品，并探讨了广泛使用并以大剂量摄入是否弊大于利。该片着重调查了鱼油，这是美国第三流行的补充剂，每十名成年人中就至少有一人在使用此类产品。
Despite their popularity, some studies have found that roughly three-quarters of fish oil supplements on the market do not contain the amount of omega-3 fatty acids advertised on their labels. Some have also found that fish oil supplements are prone to becoming rancid.
尽管它们深受欢迎，一些研究发现，市场上约四分之三的鱼油补充剂所含的ω-3脂肪酸都达不到其标签上宣称的含量。还有研究发现，鱼油补充剂容易出现哈喇味。
Fish oil supplements are widely marketed as beneficial to cardiovascular health. But the film points out that such claims are debatable at best. A majority of clinical trials have found no evidence that they protect against heart disease, according to a study published in JAMA Internal Medicine in 2014.
鱼油补充剂普遍被以“有益于心血管健康”的名头推销给消费者。但这部影片指出，这充其量是种有争议的说法。2014年发表在《美国医学会期刊：内科学》杂志(JAMA Internal Medicine)上的一项研究指出，大多数临床试验显示，尚无任何证据表明鱼油对心脏病有预防效果。
“I think for cardiovascular disease, one has to say that there is no compelling evidence that taking fish oils protects against a first heart attack or a second heart attack,” Andrew Grey, the author of the JAMA study and an associate professor of medicine at the University of Auckland, says in the “Frontline” report. “So people who are advised to do that or are doing it are wasting their time and their money.”
“我认为，就心血管疾病而言，尚无令人信服的证据能表明服用鱼油可预防初次心肌梗死或再次心肌梗死，”该JAMA研究的作者，奥克兰大学(University of Auckland)的医学副教授安德鲁·格雷(Andrew Grey)在《前线》节目的报道中说。“因此，听信‘建议’去服用鱼油或正在服用鱼油的人只不过是在浪费时间和金钱而已。”
Proponents of fish oil supplements argue that omega-3 fatty acids are essential for heart function and promote overall health. Experts say there is no doubt about that. But there is no clinical evidence that taking high doses in supplement form is beneficial for most people.
鱼油补充剂的拥护者们则认为，ω-3脂肪酸对于保障心脏功能和促进全身健康必不可少。专家们承认这一点毫无疑问。但无临床证据支持以补充剂形式服用高剂量鱼油对大多数人有益。