HONG KONG — In a move that underscores the growing importance of Asia as a market for goods as varied as fast cars, fine wines and postage stamps, Spink & Sons, a small auction house founded in London in 1666, announced on Tuesday that its chief executive had relocated to Hong Kong.
香港——1666年创办于伦敦的小型拍卖行斯宾客父子公司(Spink & Son) 本周二宣布，其首席执行官已移居香港，此举突显了作为一个涵盖跑车、美酒和邮票等多种商品的交易市场，亚洲的重要性正在日益增长。
Olivier D. Stocker, a former investment banker who spent many years in Asia before buying the auction house in 2002, moved to Hong Kong from London this month, a step he said was aimed at galvanizing Asian growth.
奥利维尔·D·斯托克(Olivier D. Stocker)曾是一位投资银行家，他在2002年买下斯宾客拍卖行之前，已经在亚洲生活过多年。本月他从伦敦移居香港，声称此举是为了促进公司亚洲业务的增长。
“If you really want to focus your mind and business on the region, you have to live here,” said Mr. Stocker, who is French. By basing himself and his family full time in Hong Kong, he said, “you are sending an important message to your customers and your staff that you believe in the region, that you are committed to it.”
斯托克是法国人，他说：“如果你真心想把注意力和业务集中在这个地区，你就必须住在这里。 ”他表示，自己和家人搬到香港生活，“向客户和员工传达了一个重要信息：你对这个地区充满信心，决意在这里付出长期努力。”
Mr. Stocker’s remarks echo those of a growing number of senior executives from non-Asian companies who have based themselves in cities like Singapore, Hong Kong and Shanghai, rather than in the countries in which their companies have headquarters.
现在有越来越多非亚洲公司的高级管理人员居住在像新加坡、香港和上海这样的城市，而不是公司总部所在的国家，斯托克的说法与这些人的表述非常相似。
The phenomenon is fairly recent, but has picked up rapidly in the past few years as Asia’s appetite for industrial, consumer and luxury goods has emerged as a key engine of growth for Western companies struggling at home.
这种现象出现的时间还很短，但在过去的几年里增长迅速，因为对于在欧美市场苦苦挣扎的西方公司来说，亚洲对工业品、消费品和奢侈品的需求已经成为了一个关键的增长引擎。
In 2008, for example, just 19.1 percent of non-Asian multinational companies surveyed by the Economist Corporate Network had one or more board members living and working in Asia. By last year, that figure had reached 38.3 percent. What is more, 52.6 percent of the respondents in the Economist Corporate Network’s 2012 survey expected to have board members in the region by 2017.
例如，在2008年，经济学人企业网络组织(Economist Corporate Network)调查的非亚洲跨国公司中，仅有19.1 ％有一名或更多的董事会成员在亚洲工作和生活，到去年，这一数字已升至38.3％ 。更重要的是，在该组织 2012年度的调查中，有52.6 ％受访公司表示，2017年之前将会有董事会成员移居亚洲。
Among those who have chosen to base themselves in Asia in recent years are John Rice, vice chairman of General Electric and president and chief executive of global growth and operations, who moved to Hong Kong in 2011; Jean-Pascal Tricoirse, the chief executive of Schneider Electric, a French engineering company that derives more than a quarter of its sales from Asia, spends so much time traveling in Asia that his family has moved to Hong Kong.
近年来选择在亚洲居住的公司高管有通用电气(General Electric)副主席、全球增长和运营总裁兼首席执行官约翰·赖斯(John Rice)，他于2011年移居香港；还有法国工程公司施耐德电气(Schneider Electric)的首席执行官赵国华(Jean-Pascal Tricoire)，该公司超过四分之一的销售额来自亚洲，赵国华在亚洲出差的时间非常之多，所以他的家人干脆搬到了香港。
The auction world, too, has seen Asian spending power become a key driver of growth over the past decade as affluence has increased throughout the region, industry experts say.
同样，在过去10年里，随着亚洲富裕程度的整体提高，拍卖界也将该地区的消费力视为业务增长的主要推动力，业内专家说。
Hong Kong, for example, has emerged as a key venue for high-end jewelry auctions in the past six or seven years and now ranks alongside Geneva and New York as a center for such sales.
例如，在过去的六、七年里，香港以高端珠宝拍卖重镇的形象出现，现在它已经成为了跟日内瓦和纽约同一档次的高端珠宝销售中心。
Likewise, Mr. Stocker said, Hong Kong has long been an important market for the stamps, coins and other collectibles that his auction house specializes in.
同样，斯托克说，对于斯宾客拍卖行专精的邮票、钱币等收藏品来说，香港长期以来都是一个重要市场。
“But you have really seen Asian buyers picking up steam and momentum over the past decade,” he said. “The region is the fastest growing in the world.”
“但是，在过去的10年里，你真正看到了亚洲买家的崛起 ”他说，“这里是全球增长最快的地区。 ”
Asian buyers now account for about one-third of the money spent at Spinks sales, which take place in London, Hong Kong, Singapore, New York and elsewhere. That proportion, he said, could rise to about 50 percent in the next five or 10 years.
现在该公司在伦敦、香港、新加坡、纽约和其他地方的拍卖收入，大约有三分之一来自亚洲买家；斯托克说，在未来的五年或十年中，这一比例可能会上升到约50％ 。