Early signs of what the Trump administration may look like: A man associated with white supremacy and misogyny will be White House chief strategist; a man rejected for a judgeship because of alleged racism will be attorney general; and an Islamophobe who has taken money from Moscow will be national security adviser.
特朗普政府会是什么样？以下是一些初步迹象：一个涉白人至上主义和女性歧视的人将成为白宫首席策略师；一个据称因种族歧视而被否决法官任命的人将成为司法部长；一个收了莫斯科的钱的恐伊斯兰者将成为国家安全顾问。
No, this is not satire.
不，这不是讽刺作品。
I’ve repeatedly noted that my side lost this election, that elections have consequences, and that President-Elect Donald Trump should be given a chance. He seems intent on blowing that chance.
我一再指出，我所在的一方在这次选举中失败了，本次选举会有种种后果，并且我们应该给候任总统特朗普一个机会。而现在，他似乎打算毁掉这个机会。
The announcement that Trump has recruited Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn as national security adviser is particularly alarming. Flynn is smart and knows the world very well, but he was fired from his last government job for incompetence. Worse, he today is regarded by many Republican and Democratic foreign policy specialists as a kook.
特朗普宣布聘请迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)中将担任国家安全顾问的决定尤其令人震惊。弗林聪明，很了解这个世界，但他上一次在政府任职是因为无能被解雇的。更糟糕的是，如今许多共和党与民主党的外交政策专家都将他视为一个蠢材。
It’s all complicated. Flynn had a brilliant military career and did an outstanding job in Iraq and Afghanistan. Five years ago, he was widely admired as the best intelligence officer of his generation.
事情都不是非黑即白的。弗林有着辉煌的军旅生涯，曾在伊拉克和阿富汗杰出地完成了工作。五年前，他被广泛誉为他这一代人中最好的情报官。
Then President Obama nominated Flynn to become director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, and he began to unravel. He turned out to be a catastrophic manager. Colin Powell, former secretary of state, explained in hacked emails why Flynn was fired: “abusive with staff, didn’t listen, worked against policy, bad management.” Powell added that ever since, Flynn has been “right-wing nutty.”
后来奥巴马总统任命弗林担任国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)局长，他的失败就开始了。原来他是个灾难性的管理者。前国务卿科林·鲍威尔(Colin Powell)在被黑客披露的电子邮件中解释弗林何以遭到解雇：“辱骂工作人员，不听劝，违反政策，管理不善。”此外鲍威尔还说，从那以后弗林就成了“右翼的疯子。”
Flynn was proved right on one important point: His argument that the Obama administration was too passive about Islamic militants after the killing of Osama bin Laden. But Flynn’s former fans have been bewildered at his raging denunciation of Islam, including calling it a “cancer.” In February, Flynn also tweeted and asked others to forward a viciously bigoted video that argued that there could be no such thing as Islamophobia.
弗林在一个重要问题上被证明是对的：他认为奥巴马政府在杀死奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之后，在伊斯兰激进分子的应对上太过被动。但是弗林对伊斯兰教进行肆意谴责，称之为“癌症”，令曾经对他青睐有加的人大惑不解。二月，弗林还发推要求其他人转发一个充满恶意偏见的视频，其中声称根本没有恐伊斯兰这回事。
“Fearing Islam, which wants 80 percent of humanity enslaved or exterminated, is totally rational and hence cannot possibly be called a phobia,” the video declares.
视频宣称：“伊斯兰教希望奴役或灭绝世界上80％的人类，对它有恐惧是完全合理的，不能称之为一种‘恐惧症’。”
Indeed, for an intelligence officer, Flynn seems to have trouble distinguishing truth from falsehood. Earlier this month, he tweeted an obviously fake story claiming that the police had found emails linking Hillary Clinton to sex crimes with children. When he was in government, subordinates had a special name for his delusions: “Flynn facts.”
事实上，作为一个情报官员，弗林似乎在区分真相和假象方面有些困难。本月初，他发推文公布了一个明显的不实报道，声称警方发现了一些电子邮件，将希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)与针对儿童的性犯罪联系起来。当他在政府供职期间，下属为他的种种错觉起了一个特别的名字：“弗林真相。”
Another problem is Flynn’s ties to foreign governments. He took money from Russia to attend an event in Moscow, sitting near President Vladimir Putin. He also appears to have taken money from Turkish interests and, without publicly disclosing the money, wrote an op-ed shilling for Turkey.
另一个问题是弗林与外国政府的关系。在收取了俄罗斯人的钱后，他出席了在莫斯科举行的一次活动，就坐在弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)总统身边。他似乎还拿了土耳其利益集团的钱，在没有公开披露这笔钱的情况下，写了一篇支持土耳其的文章。
For his chief of staff, Flynn chose his son, who is a looney on social media, calling President Obama a fascist, tweeting racially insensitive comments and sharing absurd conspiracy theories.
弗林选择自己的儿子担任幕僚长，此人在社交媒体上胡说八道，曾称奥巴马总统是法西斯主义者，发推文时对种族问题毫不避讳，还转发荒诞的阴谋论。
The national security adviser not only guides the president on foreign policy but also coordinates across all the agencies. That requires a good listener with diplomatic and management skills — and Flynn is missing that gene.
国家安全顾问不仅要在外交政策方面指导总统，而且还需要在所有机构之间做出协调。这需要一个有外交能力和管理技巧、善于倾听的人――这正是弗林天生缺少的。
The pick of Flynn comes on top of other problematic appointments. Trump offered the job of attorney general to Senator Jeff Sessions, who was rejected for a federal judgeship in 1986 by a Republican-dominated Senate because of a history of racially charged statements. For example, he had said that he had thought members of the Ku Klux Klan “were O.K. until I found out they smoked pot” (he explained that he had been joking). His nomination was only the second in 48 years to be rejected for a judgeship by the Senate Judiciary Committee.
除了弗林，还有其他有问题的任命。特朗普邀请杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)参议员担任司法部长，1986年，由共和党控制的参议院驳回了杰夫·塞申斯的联邦法官任命，因为他有发表种族主义言论的历史。比如他说他本认为三K党的成员们“没问题。直到我发现他们抽大麻”（他解释说自己是在开玩笑）。这是48年来参议院司法委员会第二次驳回一项法官任命。
As attorney general, Sessions will be in charge of enforcing civil rights laws.
作为司法部长，塞申斯将负责民权法律的执行。
Then there’s Steve Bannon, the designated White House chief strategist, who at Breitbart was at the center of white supremacist, Islamophobic misogyny. One Breitbart headline: “Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy.”
再就是史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)了，特朗普委任的这位白宫首席策略师在布莱特巴特(Breitbart)网站时，曾是白人至上主义、恐伊斯兰与女性歧视的中心人物。布莱特巴特网站上有一则文章，标题是：“避孕让女人丧失魅力且疯狂。”
In fairness, Trump has also appointed normal conservatives: Reince Priebus as chief of staff and Mike Pompeo to lead the C.I.A. I don’t agree much with either, but both are intelligent and qualified.
公平地说，特朗普也任命了正常的保守派：雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)担任幕僚长，迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)领导中情局，虽然两人我都不甚认可，但他们都是聪明而且够格的。
Other signals are also troubling, such as a Trump surrogate speaking of instituting a registry of Muslims — and citing the internment of Japanese-Americans in World War II as a precedent. Really?
但还有一些令人不安的迹象，比如一位特朗普的代理人说起要设立穆斯林登记制度，并援引日裔美国人在第二次世界大战中被拘留一事作为先例。开玩笑吗？
George Takei, the actor whose family was interned, wrote eloquently in The Washington Post about the risks “when, in an atmosphere of fear or mistrust, one group is singled out and vilified, as Japanese Americans were during World War II and as Muslim Americans are today. How terrible it is to contemplate, once again, that the government itself might once more be the very instrument of terror and division. That cannot happen again.”
演员乔治·竹井(George Takei)的家人曾在当时遭到拘留，他在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)上发表的一篇雄文指出，危险的是，“在恐惧或不信任的气氛中，一个群体被挑选出来，遭到诋毁，就像 二战期间的日裔美国人和今天的美国穆斯林。想到政府本身可能再度成为恐怖和分裂的工具，这是多么可怕。这种事不能再发生。”
Plenty of smart, experienced Republicans are available for Trump administration slots. But so far, too many are being stiffed.
有众多聪明、经验丰富的共和党人可以供特朗普选择，担任管理职务。但到目前为止，太多的人被挤到一边了。
Eliot Cohen is a thoughtful, experienced conservative who worked in the Bush administration and, despite his own distaste for Trump, had urged others to work for him. But after his interactions with a Trump transition team that he described as arrogant, he tweeted, “changed my recommendation: stay away.”
艾略特·科恩(Eliot Cohen)是一个思维缜密且有经验的保守派，曾在布什政府工作，尽管他自己厌恶特朗普，但还是呼吁大家为特朗普工作。然而在同一个特朗普的过渡团队交流之后，他说他们都很傲慢，并且发推说，“我改变了自己的建议：还是离他们远一点吧。”
Look, Trump has been elected, he will be our president and he has the right to choose conservatives. But instead of turning to the many principled Republicans available, he seems drawn to hotheads and bigots, embarrassing himself and our nation.
是的，特朗普已经当选，他将成为我们的总统，他有权选择保守派。但他并没有选择许许多多坚持原则、足堪大用的共和党人，倒是被那些鲁莽、偏执之辈所吸引，令他自己和我们的国家都感到难堪。