BEIJING — When the hammer came down at an evening auction during China Guardian’s spring sale in May 2011, “Eagle Standing on a Pine Tree,” a 1946 ink painting by Qi Baishi, one of China’s 20th-century masters, had drawn a startling price: $65.4 million. No Chinese painting had ever fetched so much at auction, and, by the end of the year, the sale appeared to have global implications, helping China surpass the United States as the world’s biggest art and auction market. 
北京——2011年5月，中国嘉德春季拍卖会晚间拍卖现场，拍卖槌已落下，中国20世纪绘画大师齐白石于1946年完成的水墨画《松柏高立图·篆书四言联》以4.255亿元人民币的惊人高价成交。从没有一幅中国画作拍出如此高的价格；而到了2011年年底，这笔交易似乎已在全球产生影响，帮助中国赶超了美国，成为全球最大的艺术品和拍卖市场。
But two years after the auction, Qi Baishi’s masterpiece is still languishing in a warehouse in Beijing. The winning bidder has refused to pay for the piece since doubts were raised about its authenticity. 
但在拍卖结束两年后，齐白石的这幅名作仍弃置在北京的一个仓库里。画作是否为真迹引发质疑后，成功竞拍者拒绝付款。
Buyers also failed to pay for the second-most-expensive work reported to have sold in that session, and they similarly balked at paying for the third-, fourth-, sixth- and ninth-most-expensive works — a striking pattern of default that has been repeated at auction houses across the country.
同样，在那场春季拍卖会中拍下第二高价作品的买家最后也没有付款，而拍下第三、第四、第六以及第九位高价作品的买家也出现了相类似的情况——这样惊人的违约行为在中国各地的拍卖行都一直不断出现。
“The market is in a very dubious stage,” said Alexander Zacke, an expert in Asian art who runs Auctionata, an international online auction house. “No one will take results in mainland China very seriously.”Indeed, even as the art world marvels at China’s booming market, a six-month review by The New York Times found that many of the sales — transactions reported to have produced as much as a third of the country’s auction revenue in recent years — did not actually take place. 
经营着国际在线拍卖行Auctionata的亚洲艺术品专家亚历山大·察克(Alexander Zacke)说，“中国市场处于一个十分不明朗的阶段。没有人会太把中国大陆的拍卖结果当回事。”事实上，即便艺术界惊叹于中国蓬勃发展的市场，《纽约时报》所进行的一项持续六个月的调查发现，很多交易——近年来为艺术市场贡献了三分之一拍卖收入的交易——事实上并不存在。
 Just as problematic, the market is flooded with forgeries, often mass-produced, and has become a breeding ground for corruption, as business executives curry favor with officials by bribing them with art. 
同样有问题的是，中国市场上充斥着通常是批量制作的赝品，也成了滋生腐败的温床：为讨好政府官员，商业高管会用艺术品行贿。
Fraud is certainly no stranger to the international art world, but experts warn that the market here is particularly vulnerable because, like many industries in China, it has expanded too fast for regulators to keep pace. 
在国际艺术品行业，赝品肯定不是什么稀罕事，但专家警告称，中国市场这方面的问题尤其多，原因就是和中国很多行业一样，它扩张过快，而监管还跟不上。
In fact, few areas of business offer as revealing a view of this socialist society’s lurch toward capitalism as the art market. Like many luxury businesses in China, the explosion of buyers for art here has been fueled by the pent-up consumerism of the newly rich. The demand is so great that last year, in a country that barely had an art market two decades ago, reported auction revenues were up 900 percent over 2003 — to $8.9 billion. (The United States auction market for 2012 was $8.1 billion.) 
事实上，没有几个领域能像艺术品市场这样，如此生动地展示出这个社会主义国家向资本主义的跃进。和中国许多奢侈品行业一样，这里艺术品购买者的激增也源自中国新贵一族压抑已久的消费主义热情。人们对艺术品的需求如此之高，以至于去年，在这个20年前艺术品市场几乎不存在的国家，拍卖收入据报较2003年提高了900%，达到89亿美元。（2012年，美国拍卖市场的收入为81亿美元。）
While the luxury-buying habits in China often mimic those in the West, the demand for art reflects uniquely Chinese tastes. While the rest of the world bids up Pollocks and Rothkos, Chinese buyers typically pursue traditional Chinese pieces, some by 15th-century masters, and others by modern artists, like Zhang Daqian, one of many who have chosen to work in that old style. Even today, the name of Zhang, a 20th-century artist known for his landscapes, hardly registers internationally outside collecting circles, though in recent years he has joined Picasso and Warhol as one of the best-selling artists in the world.
尽管中国的奢侈品购买习惯经常模仿西方，但对艺术的需求却反映了独特的中国品味。就在世界上其他人都在竞拍波洛克(Pollock)和罗斯科(Rothko)的作品时，中国买家则通常会购买传统的、中国的作品，其中一些来自于15世纪的艺术大师，另外一些则来自于张大千等现代艺术家。张大千是众多选择创作传统风格作品的现代艺术家之一。即使是今天，在艺术收藏界之外，国际上也很少知道以风景画闻名的20世纪画家张大千的名字，但最近几年，他也加入了毕加索(Picasso)和沃霍尔(Warhol)的行列，成了拥有世界上最畅销作品的艺术家之一。
This very reverence for the cultural past is now contributing greatly to the surge in forgeries. Artists here are trained to imitate the old Chinese masters, and they routinely produce high-quality copies of paintings and other works, such as ceramics and jade artifacts. That tradition has intersected with the newly lucrative art market, in which reproductions that so many have the skills to create are often offered as the real thing. It would be hard to create a more fertile environment for the proliferation of fakes. 
正是这种对悠久文化的敬意大大地催生了赝品的激增。这里的一些艺术家会接受训练，模仿大师的作品。他们常常会制作出高质量的绘画和其他作品的仿制品，比如陶器或者玉器。这一传统已经和刚刚变得有利可图的艺术品市场交织在了一起，很多人都有技术制造以假乱真的纺织品，它们被当做真品呈现。在这个市场上，学生们长时间学着模仿的那些作品突然之间变得价值连城。很难创造出比这更适合大量赝品滋生的环境了。
“This is the challenge right now,” said Wang Yannan, the president and director of China Guardian, the nation’s second-biggest auction house. “In the mind of every Chinese, the first question is whether it’s fake.”
“这正是当下的挑战，”中国第二大拍卖行中国嘉德董事总裁王雁南说，“在每个中国人的心里，第一个问题是：它是不是假的？”
For years, much of the forgery went unnoticed as works passed from buyer to buyer, their prices spiraling up. But, increasingly, high-profile scandals are exposing the extent of the fakery and sowing doubts about the larger market. In one case, three years ago, an oil painting attributed to the 20th-century artist Xu Beihong, which sold at auction for more than $10 million, turned out to have been produced 30 years after the artist’s death by a student during a class exercise at one of China’s leading arts academies. 
在很多年里，许多赝品在一个又一个卖家手上流转，却没被发现，它们的价格却一路高升。但广受关注的丑闻也越来越多，不仅披露了造假行为的程度，还引发了对整个市场的质疑。在三年前的一起案例中，一幅据称出自20世纪画家徐悲鸿之手的油画在中国的拍卖会上拍出了7280万元的高价，但后来，事实证明那幅画是在徐悲鸿去世30年后画成的，是中国一家著名美术学院的一个学生在课堂练习期间画的。
Even more embarrassing was the government’s decision last July to close a private museum in Hebei because of suspicions that nearly everything in it — all 40,000 artifacts, including a Tang dynasty porcelain vase — were fake.
政府7月末做出的一项决定更令人尴尬。因为怀疑河北一家私人博物馆里的所有展品都是赝品，政府决定关闭这家博物馆。该博物馆共有4万件手工艺品，其中包括一个唐代的瓷花瓶。
“There’s always been forgers on the market, but it’s a matter of proportion,” said Robert D. Mowry, a former curator of Asian art at Harvard who is now a consultant for Christie’s. 
“市场上总会有赝品，不过是比例问题，”哈佛大学(Harvard University)前亚洲艺术品策展人罗伯特·D·莫里(Robert D. Mowry)说。他现在担任佳士得(Christie’s)的顾问。
Concern about fraud and a cooling economy seem to have tempered enthusiasm in the Chinese art market. After peaking in 2011, reported revenues dropped off 24 percent last year, according to Arts Economics, a research company that studies the international market. This year is expected to be modestly better than 2012.
对赝品和经济降温的担忧似乎已经影响到了人们对中国艺术品市场的热情。根据研究全球市场的公司艺术经济咨询公司(Arts Economics)的数据，在2011年达到顶峰后，2012年公布的收入即减少了24%。今年预计会稍稍好于去年。
The Chinese auction industry and the government have taken notice, and say they are looking to clean up the abuses and stem further damage to consumer confidence, especially since the art market is actually perceived by many as one of the safer places to invest. 
中国的拍卖行业和政府已经注意到了这种情况，并称他们正在试图整顿泛滥的赝品并阻止其进一步削弱消费者信心，特别是因为艺术品市场实际上被认为是更安全的投资领域之一。
“A majority of Chinese people do not trust the Chinese stock market,” said Melanie Ouyang Lum, a consultant on Chinese art. “The housing boom has slowed tremendously. A lot of people are looking to art for investment.”
“大部分中国人不信任中国的股市，”中国艺术品顾问欧阳后蕊说，“房地产市场的增长已大幅放缓。很多人正在转而投资艺术品。
China has also identified culture as a core area for economic growth, and a vibrant art market as a useful tool of soft power, promoting a view of Chinese society as a center of aesthetics and beauty and deflecting the international focus from political and human rights issues. The Chinese are handicapped in cleaning up the art market, though, by a weakness in their laws, which absolve auction houses of any responsibility if a work turns out to be fake.
中国也已经把文化当做推动经济增长的核心领域，把充满活力的艺术品市场当做增强软实力的有用工具，倡导中国社会是美学和美的中心这一观点，转移国际社会对政治和人权问题的关注。但法律上的一个漏洞却妨碍了中国对艺术品市场的整顿，按照中国法律，如果证明作品为假，拍卖行不承担任何责任。
The forgery problem helps account for the soaring number of payment defaults. In the past three years, a study of sales at mainland auction houses by the China Association of Auctioneers found that about half the sales of artworks worth more than $1.5 million — a major portion of the market — were not completed because the buyer failed to pay what was owed. (For major auction houses in the United States, the default rate for works of the same value is negligible, several experts said.) 
赝品的问题也带来了越来越多拍下后不付钱的情况。中国拍卖行业协会对中国大陆拍卖公司进行的一项研究显示，过去三年，在价值超过150万美元的艺术品——市场的很大一部分——销售上，大约有一半没有完成，原因是买家没有付款。（一些专家称，对于美国的大型拍卖公司来说，这一比例则微不足道）。
“It has something to do with the general environment in China,” said Zhang Yanhua, the association chairwoman. “As you know, China is still trying to build the rule of law in this country.” 
中国拍卖行业协会会长张延华说，“这与中国的整体环境有关。我们都知道，中国仍然在努力建立法治。”
Other explanations for the wave of defaults and late payments, experts say, include instances in which bidders got buyer’s remorse or just bid up a price to increase the value of works by a particular artist they collect.
专家称，大量出现这种不付款和逾期付款情况的其他一些解释，是因为竞拍者后悔了或者是为了抬高他们收集的某位艺术家作品的估价基准而竞价。
Even when you factor in faulty revenue reporting, the rise in art buying over the past decade has been meteoric, with Chinese banks, state-owned companies and business tycoons continuing to invest in the boom. Art has become a kind of currency, and collecting is so popular in China now that auctions are often mobbed. On Chinese television, more than 20 programs offer tips on collectingand on identifying cultural relics, and late-night infomercials promise quick riches to viewers who purchase a $2,500 collection of works by former students of renowned masters. Purchase today, the ad declares, and you can immediately secure a profit of $100,000.
即使将赝品的情况考虑在内，过去10年，中国艺术品购买的增长仍令人炫目，中国的银行、国有公司和企业大亨仍在投入资金，推波助澜。艺术已经成为一种货币，收藏在中国已经如此流行，以至于拍卖会上常常人满为患。在中国的电视上，有超过20个节目提供收藏或是如何鉴别文物的建议，深夜的专题广告片则会向观众承诺，只要购买知名大师前学生的2500美元的艺术品，就能致富。广告里放言，今天购买，“你立刻就能赚10万美元”。
With so much at stake, Chinese art dealers have rushed to Europe and America to buy back Chinese relics. There has also been a rash of museum thefts involving Chinese antiquities. And a black market in artifacts has emerged, with so-called tomb raiders digging up buried treasures that they can sell.
在利益的驱使下，中国的艺术品经销商匆匆赶赴欧洲和美国买回中国的文物。还曾出现过一波与中国文物相关的博物馆盗窃案。手工艺品的黑市也已浮现，所谓的“盗墓者”会在那里出售他们挖来的宝贝。
The interest in addressing the market’s weaknesses may have played a role in China’s recent decision to loosen longstanding rules that restrict Western auction houses from access to the Chinese market.
中国最近决定放松长期以来限制西方拍卖公司进入中国市场的规定，这可能是因为解决市场的弱点符合中国的利益。
Now Sotheby’s has a joint venture with a state-run company, and Christie’s won a license this year to become the first international auction house to operate independently in China — developments that may serve to foster competition and higher standards in the market.
如今，苏富比(Sotheby’s)已与一家中国国有公司经营一家合资企业，而佳士得今年已经获得执照，成为了第一家在中国独立经营的国际拍卖公司——这种发展可能会帮助中国市场形成竞争和更高的标准。
Ms. Zhang, the head of the auction association, said bringing in the Western auction houses was like putting a crocodile in a pond.
中国拍卖行业协会会长张延华说，引进西方的拍卖公司就像是在池塘里放进一条鳄鱼。
“It makes the fish swim faster,” she said.
她说，“这会让鱼游得更快。”
The Rising Price of Culture
文化的升值
Less than a decade ago, the Chinese art market was still quite sleepy, a legacy of the Cultural Revolution when luxury items were viewed as bourgeois and the Red Guards raided homes, seizing and destroying art.
不到10年前，中国艺术品市场仍然一片沉寂，这是文化大革命造成的结果。文革期间，奢侈品被认为是小资产阶级的东西，红卫兵抄家、没收、销毁艺术品。
Ma Weidu, a major collector based in Beijing, recounted how easy it still was in the 1980s to secure small artifacts. People gave them to him for nothing, he said, or traded them for a few cigarettes. Occasionally, he would pay a small fee. 
根据在北京的著名收藏家马未都回忆，上世纪80年代，弄到一些小件的手工艺品仍然是非常容易的事。他说，人们会白白给他，或是用换几根香烟。有时，他会付一点钱。
“They’d say: ‘Take it all. All I want is a washing machine,’” he recalled.
他回忆说，“他们会说，‘把这些都拿走。我只想要一台洗衣机。’”
The auctioning of art remained rare until the early 1990s, when the government lifted restrictions on the sale of cultural relics. Still, the art market did not begin to take off until 2004, fueled by rising incomes. 
艺术品拍卖那时相当少见。直到上世纪90年代初，政府放开了对文物销售的限制，这种情况才有所改观。即便如此， 直到2004年，受到不断增长的收入的刺激，艺术市场才开始起步腾飞。
Now there are more than 350 Chinese auction houses that deal in fine arts. The two largest — Poly International Auction company, and China Guardian — are billion-dollar enterprises with offices in several cities, including Tokyo and New York, and close ties to the country’s ruling elite.
现在，中国有超过350家从事艺术品交易的中国拍卖行。最大的两家是保利国际拍卖有限公司和中国嘉德国际拍卖有限公司，它们都是资产数以亿计的企业，在包括东京和纽约在内的多座城市设有办公室，和国内的统治精英保持着密切的关系。
But as the market has grown, so has its dark underbelly. Price manipulation is rampant, analysts say, as collectors and investors, perhaps an art investment fund with large holdings in a particular artist, bid up a work to boost the value of their entire inventory. Sometimes, experts say, auction houses themselves throw in fake bids. The Chinese have a name for the price-boosting process. They call it “stir frying.”
不过，随着市场的增长，它的阴暗面也在增大。分析人士说，操纵价格的现象比比皆是，原因是收藏者和投资者通过竞拍一件作品来推高他们所有库存的价值，这些投资者也许是某个大量持有某位特定艺术家藏品的艺术投资基金组织。专家说，有时候，拍卖行自己会进行虚假竞拍。对推高价格的流程，中国人有一个词。他们把它叫做“爆炒”。
While some collectors care deeply about their art, even exhibiting it in their own elaborate private museums, many buyers are primarily investors looking to flip a work for profit, experts say. Objects are sold and resold. One painting by Qi Baishi, “Fish and Shrimp,” sold four times at auction in the 10 years ending last December, the price climbing to $794,000 from $30,000 in 2002, before trailing off last year to $552,000.
虽然，有一些收藏者极为在意他们拥有的艺术品，甚至会在他们自己精心打造的私人博物馆里展出这些艺术品，然而，专家表示，许多买家首先仍然是投资人，他们只是指望着买卖作品得利而已。标的物一卖再卖，比如齐白石的画作《鱼虾图》，在截至去年12月的过去10年里已经被拍卖了四次，其价格从2002年的3万美元，攀升到了79.4万美元，而后走低到去年的55.2万美元。
Resale opportunities are a priority for many buyers. At an auction in Beijing last month, four men from Guangzhou bought several paintings worth tens of thousands of dollars. “Most people you see here, we don’t have a real job, we are traders,” said one of the men, in a white bomber jacket. “We buy them and resell them to educated, wealthy people.”
对许多买家来说，再售机会非常重要。在上个月于北京举行的一次拍卖会上，四名来自广东的男子买下了几幅价值数万美元的画作。其中一名穿着白色短夹克衫的男子说，“和你在这里见到的大多数人一样，我们没有真正的工作，是交易商。我们买下这些画，再把它们卖给有教养的富人。”
Analysts say that flipping artwork contributes to the market’s nonpayment problem. Before an auction, a buyer might find a collector interested in a piece and bid successfully for it, but refuse to pay if the deal with the collector falls through.
分析人士说，翻炒艺术品加深了市场的拒付问题。在一次拍卖会前，一名买家可能发现一名收藏者对一幅作品感兴趣，就成功地把它拍下了。但如果他和这名收藏者的交易落了空，他就会在之后拒绝付款。
And then there are the payment problems that arise because China’s art market is, economically speaking, so young, and its rich are so recently minted. 
此外，从经济角度来说，之所以会产生付款问题，是因为中国的艺术品市场太年轻了，中国的有钱人，都是刚刚致富不久。
“There is still a big difference between East and West in understanding whether raising a paddle at an auction is actually a binding contract or not,” said Philip Tinari, director of the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art in Beijing. “Some young starlet buys a bunch of paintings at an auction, walks out and says, ‘Nos. 13, 11, 7, 6, 5’, those are the ones I don’t want.’ It happens all the time.”
位于北京的尤伦斯当代艺术中心馆长田霏宇(Philip Tinari)说，“对于在拍卖会上举牌实际上是否形成了有约束力的合同，东方和西方的理解依然存在巨大的差异。一些小有名气的年轻女明星在一次拍卖会上购买了一批画作，之后走出来说，‘13、11、7、6、5号，我不想要这些号码的作品。’”这样的情况时常发生。
Auction houses have typically papered over the nonpayments, reporting aborted transactions as true sales, even posting record prices and seldom correcting the record. This has misleadingly burnished their revenues, making the market seem hotter and propping up prices, industry experts said.
业内专家说，拍卖行往往会掩盖拒付事件，把取消的交易作为真实交易公布出来，甚至会把该交易的成交价宣布为历史新纪录，而很少作出更正。此举以一种欺骗性的方式粉饰了他们的收入，让市场看上去比实际上更红火，并抬高了物品的价格。
The practice has so alarmed the Chinese authorities, who worry that it could undermine the credibility of the market, that the auction association and state bodies like the ministries of commerce and culture stepped in a few years ago.
这种做法引起了中国有关部门的警觉，他们担心，这可能会破坏市场的信誉，因此，中国拍卖行业协会和中国有关部门，比如商务部和文化部都已在几年前介入。
As part of a larger program of reforms, the association now collects nonpayment data and publishes its findings in an effort to expose malefactors. It not only encourages auction houses to blacklist buyers with a history of not paying, but also recommends that the houses require steep deposits from potential bidders. The government has canceled or suspended the licenses of 150 auction houses between 2008 and 2011 for a variety of problems, including the sale of fake items. 
作为一个包含多项改革的更大计划的一部分，中国拍卖行业协会现在开始收集不付钱的买家的数据，并公布结果，对这些买家进行曝光。协会不仅鼓励拍卖行把有违约记录的买家列入黑名单，还建议拍卖行要求潜在买家支付高昂的定金。2008年到2011年，政府对存在不同问题的150家拍卖行吊销或暂扣了营业执照。
Even with the fraud and fakery, many collectors and investors say there is too much excitement and profit in the market to warrant dropping out, especially when new money keeps showing up at auctions, ready to buy.
即使是存在欺诈行为和赝品，许多收藏家和投资者说，这个市场依然存在太多让人兴奋的东西和利润，不容错过，尤其当拍卖会上不断出现有购买意愿的新贵的时候。
“In the newspapers, there are always stories of someone buying something for a dollar and selling it for a million,” said Rui Zhang, who runs the art market and management programs at Tsinghua University in Beijing. But Jiang Yinfeng, an artist, critic and curator, said that the people who suffer in such an overheated market are often those with little experience in such matters. “Some of my friends use their houses as collateral to buy art items,” he said. “Some of them take high-interest loans.”
清华大学负责艺术市场和管理课程的张瑞（音译）说，在报纸上总是能读到有人把花小钱买来的东西卖出100万高价的故事。但是艺术家、评论人和策展人蒋银峰（音）说，在这样一个过热市场承受损失的，往往是没有经验的人。他说，我的一些朋友用房子做抵押买艺术品。有些人借高利贷。
One engine driving the Chinese art market has been the culture of gift-giving, which prompts provincial officials to arrive en masse in Beijing during the Mid-Autumn Festival in September, further clogging the congested streets as they ferry presents of art, alcohol and other items to senior government officials.
推动中国艺术品市场的引擎之一是送礼文化。在9月的中秋节期间，各省官员大批进京，导致北京本已不畅的道路更加拥堵，这都是为了给政府高官送上艺术品、名酒和其他礼品。
But art is also used in more elaborate bribery schemes. In some cases, an official will receive a work of art with instructions to put it up for auction; a businessman will use it as the currency for a bribe, purchasing the art at an inflated price and giving the official a tidy profit. 
但是艺术品也被用于更煞费苦心的行贿计划中。有时，官员会收到一件艺术品和一个关于如何将艺术品拿去拍卖的说明；商人会把艺术品作为贿赂的资金，以高价把艺术品买走，让官员得到一大笔钱。
“Unlike cash, the value is less obvious,” said Zhang Pingjie, a curator at the Himalayas Art Museum in Shanghai. 
上海喜玛拉雅美术馆的策展人张平杰说，“与现金不同，艺术品的价值不那么明显。”
Whether the given work is real often doesn’t matter, experts say, because the buyer intends to spend lavishly anyway. And were the scheme to be discovered, the minimal value of a fake would mean a lesser punishment. 
一些专家说，艺术品是真是假并不重要，因为反正这个人会花大价钱买走。如果行贿的行为暴露，赝品的价值小， 惩罚会更轻。
The bribery of public officials with art is so widespread that the Chinese have coined a term to describe this kind of aesthetic corruption.
用艺术品向政府官员行贿的行为已经如此普遍，中国人甚至发明了一个词专门来形容这种与艺术品有关的腐败。
They call it “yahui” or “elegant bribery.”
他们把它叫做“雅贿”。
One such bribery case occurred several years ago when the city of Chongqing cracked down on the gangsters who controlled its buses, taxis and gambling parlors.
几年前，重庆市打击控制公共汽车、出租车和赌博机构的黑帮团伙时就出现了这样的案例。
In 2009, the authorities detained the man who had protected the criminals: the city’s own deputy police chief, Wen Qiang. 
2009年，有关部门逮捕了曾经保护这些黑帮团伙的人——重庆市公安局副局长文强。
Searches of Mr. Wen’s properties turned up watches, wine and other items typical of graft around the world, including $3 million in cash wrapped in oil paper and submerged in a fish pond.
警方在搜查文强的财产时发现了手表、葡萄酒和来自世界各地的其他受贿得来的赃物，包括放在鱼池的水里用油纸包裹的300万美元的现金。
But investigators also discovered a surprisingly expansive and expensive collection of art at Mr. Wen’s mountainside villa and another home he kept at the Crabapple Moon Residences. He had been given, they said, more than 100 works, including fine ivory sculptures and a Buddha head carved from stone. Valuable calligraphy scrolls were stored in a ceramic container. A painting attributed to Zhang Daqian rested on a bookshelf. 
但调查人员还发现，在文强的“海棠晓月”半山别墅和其他住所里，有数量和价格惊人的艺术藏品。他们说，文强收受了100多件艺术品，其中有精美的象牙雕件和一个石刻佛头。一个陶瓷容器中装着昂贵的书法卷轴。书架上还放着一幅被认为是张大千所作的画。
Mr. Wen was executed for his crimes the next year.
文强在第二年被执行死刑。
“Who is in the auction market?” asked Li Yanjun, an art expert and authenticator at Beijing Oriental University. 
“拍卖市场里的是什么人？”北京东方大学的艺术专家和鉴定师李延军 （音译）说。
“Government officials,” he said. “They hide and have people bid for them, or buy up their works.”
“是政府官员，”他说， “他们自己不露面，让人帮他们竞拍，或者购买他们手里的藏品。 ”
Brand-New Antiquities
崭新的文物
The stool and dressing table were a set, carved from jade and said to date from the Han dynasty, some 2,000 years ago. Their sale at auction in Beijing two years ago drew $33 million and lots of fanfare.
两年前的8月，在北京的一场拍卖活动中，一套据说可追溯至大约2000年前汉代的玉雕梳妆台和凳子，以3300万美元的价格拍出，吸引了大量关注。
But then experts began pointing out that Chinese did not sit on chairs during the Han dynasty (206 B.C. to A.D. 220). They sat on the floor. 
但是这时，专家们指出，在汉代（公元前206年至公元220年），中国人不坐椅子，而是席地而坐。
Eventually, a leader of the jade trade in Pizhou, a village in Jiangsu Province in eastern China, acknowledged that the pieces had been created by craftsmen there in 2010.
最终，江苏邳州的一名玉雕行业负责人承认，这套工艺品是当地匠人在2010年加工的。
Wang Rumian, former president of the Pizhou Gemstone and Jade Industry Association, said in an interview last month that it had been the art dealers, not the craftsmen, who chose to pass off the set as ancient. 
上个月，邳州宝玉石行业协会前会长汪如棉在接受记者采访时说，把这套作品说成是古董的不是工匠，而是艺术品经销商。
“It wasn’t made that well,” he insisted.
“东西做得没有那么好，”他坚称。
But it was good enough to fool the Chinese art market and draw a record price for jade that year. 
但是已经好得足以糊弄中国艺术品市场，并创下当年的玉器交易价的纪录了。
The trail of phony “antiques,” bogus paintings and fake bronzes winds throughout China these days. In Jingdezhen, a city in the rugged mountains of southeast China, small workshops produce exquisite reproductions of Ming and Qing dynasty porcelain, the craftsmen going to some lengths to build the wood-fired kilns that help create the subtle textures and glazes.
如今，中国各地都有假“古董”、假画、假铜器的踪迹出现。在中国东南部崎岖的山区城市景德镇，小作坊里能制作出明代和清代瓷器的精美复制品，工匠们大费周章修建烧木材的窑口，好让瓷器拥有细腻的纹理和釉光。
In Yanjian, a dusty village in central Henan Province, they use ammonia on bronze to induce corrosion and produce that same greenish, oxidized patina that comes from exposure, allowing a bell or ritual wine vessel made a few days ago to pass for an artifact unearthed from a tomb. 
在尘土飞扬的河南延津，人们用氨水来腐蚀铜制品，以便获得那种暴露在空气中得到的绿色氧化外观。就这样，他们把一个几天前才做出的瓿，仿制成从墓里出土的文物。瓿是一种祭祀用的酒器。
And in Beijing, Tianjin, Suzhou and Nanjing, highly skilled painters and calligraphers are replicating the brush strokes of revered masters. 
在北京、天津、苏州和南京，技艺高超的画师和书法艺人也在仿制备受尊崇的大师的书画。
So-called traditional Chinese paintings typically depict the natural beauty of mountains, rivers and forests in an ancient style, and, together with calligraphy, are the workhorses of China’s art market, accounting for nearly half the money taken in at auction last year. So, throughout the country, painters work to copy masters like Qi Baishi and Fu Baoshi. 
所谓的“传统”中国画，通常是用一种古代风格描绘山川林壑等自然美景的作品，它们和书法是中国艺术市场的重头戏，去年占据了拍卖总金额的将近一半。因此，中国各地的画师们正在努力临摹齐白石、傅抱石等大师的作品。
“I’ve seen 700 to 800 people in a painting workshop, with a clear division of labor, making the works of Qi Baishi,” says Zhang Jinfa, a professional arts authenticator based in Beijing. 
“我见过一个绘画‘车间’，里面有700到800人，分工明确地仿制齐白石的作品。”住在北京的职业艺术品鉴定师张金发（音译）说。
A study last year by Artron, an art data company based in China, estimated that as many as 250,000 people in about 20 Chinese cities may be involved in producing and selling fakes. Visits to several of these cities in recent months documented that such production centers are thriving. 
中国艺术品数据公司雅昌(Artron)去年进行的一项研究估计，可能有多达25万人在中国约20个城市生产和销售假艺术品。在最近几个月对一些这类城市制作中心的探访中我发现它们非常兴旺。
Thousands of people in Jingdezhen, the ancient center of porcelain making, are employed by its bustling workshops, where bare-chested craftsmen sit hunched over, spinning clay into ancient forms. Down the production line, painters dip their brushes in ink and copy the outlines of flowers or traditional Chinese patterns onto the pottery. Often, the images are taken directly from auction catalogs that are pressed open on a nearby table.
古老的陶瓷之乡景德镇有成千上万人在忙碌的陶瓷厂工作。在那里，坦胸露背的匠人弯着腰坐着，把旋转着的陶土塑成传统的样式。在生产线的下游，画师将笔刷蘸上颜料，往陶器上临摹花卉的轮廓或中国传统图案。通常的情况是，图案直接来自旁边桌上摊开的拍品目录。
One of the best-known ceramic reproduction makers in Jingdezhen is Xiong Jianjun, who spent eight years making a copy of a Qianlong vase at the request of the National Museum in Beijing. 
熊建军是景德镇最出名的陶瓷仿制专家之一。他花了八年时间应北京的国家博物馆之邀仿制了一尊乾隆瓶。
“You need to study the fundamentals and decipher what they did back then,” said Mr. Xiong, who said some of his reproductions have been sold without his consent as antiquities. 
“你得研究基本功，破解他们当时的做法，”熊建军说。他还表示，他做的某些仿品在未获他同意的情况下作为古董出售了。
In China, the tradition of copying reflects more than a simple reverence for the past; it is an appreciation that beauty has been captured in a fashion worth emulating. Unlike the West, where “the shock of the new” is admired, China values tradition, and its best-selling works often pay homage to, and look like, those made hundreds of years earlier. 
在中国，临摹的传统反映的不仅是简单的崇古，还是对值得模仿的美学呈现方式的一种赞赏。与崇尚“新艺术的震撼”的西方不同，中国看中传统，最热销的东西往往会向千百年前的物件致敬，并与之形似。
At prestigious art schools, students engage in what the Chinese refer to as “lin mo,” or imitating the masters. Forgery and fraud are not necessarily part of the tradition, experts say, though famous painters like Zhang Daqian, who died 30 years ago, took pleasure in fooling the experts.
在著名的艺术院校，学生们会对大师进行“临摹”。一些专家表示，伪造和欺诈并不一定是这种传统的组成部分，尽管30年前过世的张大千这样的著名画家曾以能骗过专家为乐。
“Zhang Daqian felt he was an equal to the old masters,” said Maxwell K. Hearn, chairman of the Asian art department at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. “And so the true test was whether he could copy them. “
纽约大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)的亚洲艺术部主任何慕文(Maxwell K. Hearn)说，“张大千觉得自己与古代的大师不相上下。因此，真正的考验就在于他能否模仿。”
One story that illustrates Mr. Zhang’s playful approach to copying concerns his 1967 trip to review an exhibition of the works of Shitao, a 17th-century painter, at the University of Michigan Museum of Art. His tour guides were proud to show him the works of such a famous painter, who had died more than two centuries earlier. So they were surprised when Mr. Zhang began to laugh and point to various works on the wall, saying: “I did that! And that.” 
有一个故事证明了张大千在临摹上的玩笑做法。1967年，他前往密歇根大学艺术博物馆(University of Michigan Museum of Art)观看石涛这位17世纪画家的作品展。向导骄傲地向他展示了这位200年多前离世的著名画家的大作。让他们大吃一惊的是，张大千哈哈大笑，指着墙上的几幅作品说，“这是我画的！这也是！”
“That is how Zhang Daqian talked,” said Marshall Wu, a retired professor at the University of Michigan who first met Mr. Zhangin the 1960s. “You never really knew if he was serious or kidding. But he did a lot of Shitao forgeries.”
密歇根大学退休教授、上世纪60年代首次见到张大千的武佩圣(Marshall Wu)说，“张大千就是这么讲话的。你永远搞不清他到底是说真的还是在开玩笑。不过，他确实仿了不少石涛的作品。”
Mr. Zhang’s work now serves as a model for a painter in Beijing, Liang Zhaojin, who studied with the master and now works in his own classical style that is based on that tradition.
张大千的作品如今是在北京的画家梁兆金的模仿对象。他曾师从张大千，现在以基于那种传统的自己的古典风格创作。
“I am honoring Master Zhang,” he said, “by inheriting and promoting his style.” 
“我是在向张大师致敬，继承和发扬他的画风，”他说。
It is easier to detect fakes, of course, when the artists are still alive. Artron recently collected 100 works attributed to a popular painter, He Jiaying, and, with his help, determined that about 80 were fakes. 
当然了，如果艺术家仍然在世，辨认赝品就容易一些。雅昌近期网罗了100件著名画家何家英的作品。在他的帮助下，鉴定出其中大约80件是赝品。
“Basically, everything is controlled by middlemen,” said Wu Shu, a writer who has posed as an art dealer as part of his research and published three books on the subject, including, “Who Is Swindling China?”
“基本上，一切都是被中间商控制的，”同为艺术品交易商的作家吴树说道。他同时进行研究，已发表了关于这个话题的三本书，其中包括《谁在忽悠中国？》。
“They generally divide the goods into three categories: the best-quality things go to the auction market; midlevel works go to the antiquity markets; and lower-level things go to flea markets,” he said.
“他们一般把商品分成三类：质量最好的拿去拍卖；质量居中的拿到古董市场；而水平较差的就流向了跳蚤市场，”他说。
Experts say some Chinese dealers and consignors slip works into auction by doctoring old sales catalogs to invent a provenance, and — if all else fails — paying an auction house specialist to include a suspect item.
专家称，一些中国交易商和发货人通过篡改旧的成交目录，伪造一个作品出处，让艺术品偷偷进入拍卖市场，如果所有其他的方法都失败了，他们会买通拍卖行专家，以便混入一件可疑作品。
Auction houses need impressive consignments to attract collectors, and experts say that, in their desperation for inventory, many have ordered forgeries.
拍卖行需要令人惊叹的拍品来吸引藏家，而专家称，因为迫切想要得到此类拍品，很多拍卖行开始购进赝品。
“I would say 80 percent of the lots at small and medium-sized auction houses are replicas,” said Xiao Ping, a prominent painter who formerly worked as an authentication adviser to the Nanjing Museum. 
“我觉得在中小拍卖行，80%的拍品都是仿造的，”前南京博物馆鉴定顾问、著名画家萧平说。
Immortal Creativity
不朽的创造力
Qi Baishi was a master of the ordinary. In the summer of 1957, with his health deteriorating, the painter went into the studio of his traditional courtyard residence in Beijing, dabbed his brush in ink and created a portrait of a flower, a long-stemmed raspberry-and-yellow peony.
齐白石是擅长化腐朽为神奇的创作大师。1957年夏天，在身体状况恶化的情况下，齐白石在北京传统四合院家里的画室用笔轻轻蘸了些墨，创作出一幅花卉图，上面画着长着长茎的覆盆子和黄牡丹。
Three months later, he was dead, at 93.
三个月后，齐白石逝世，享年93岁。
“That was the last work he completed,” said his grandson Qi Bingyi, who keeps the painting locked in a safe at his home in Beijing. “I have it right here. Do you want to see it?” he said before unrolling the work for visitors last month.
“那是他完成的最后一幅作品，”齐白石的孙子齐秉颐说，他把这幅画锁在自己北京家中的保险箱里。“我就把它放在这儿。你想看吗？”上个月，在打开这幅画让参观者欣赏之前齐秉颐这么说道。
Death, however, seems to have done little to curb Qi Baishi’s productivity, according to auction records and interviews with experts and his family. They indicate that rising values and his popularity as one of China’s greatest modern painters have led to a flood of fake Qi Baishis on the market.
然而，根据拍卖记录和对专家及齐白石家人的采访，死亡似乎没能减少他的作品产量。他们表示，作为中国最伟大的现代画家之一，其名声和身价不断上升，导致市场上冒出大量齐白石画作的赝品。
Liu Xilin, editor of “The Complete Works of Qi Baishi at the Beijing Fine Arts Academy,” said about half the Qi Baishi works that come up for auction in China are fake. “I can see that by just looking at their catalogs.”
《北京画院藏齐白石全集》编辑刘曦林说，在中国大约一半参与竞拍的齐白石作品都是假的。“看他们的目录我就能看出来。”
In the past 20 years, works attributed to Qi Baishi have been put up for auction more than 27,000 times in China. 
过去20年里，据称是齐白石所作的作品，已在中国的拍卖会上被拍卖了逾2.7万次。
In one sign of the mania, 5,600 works attributed to Qi Baishi came on the market in 2011, up from 381 works in 2000. 
这股狂热风潮的一个迹象是，2011年，有5600幅据称的齐白石画作出现在市场中，而2000年只有381幅。
Qi Baishi, born in 1864 into a peasant family, herded cows and worked as a carpenter’s apprentice before taking up painting at 27. Fame came a few decades later, after he moved to Beijing and adopted a fluid, almost calligraphylike style, using an ink wash. 
1864年，齐白石出生在一个农民家庭，他从27岁开始从事绘画，在这之前，他放过牛，还当过木匠的学徒。几十年之后，尤其是在他搬到北京、并运用水墨，以一种流动的、几乎和书法类似的画风创作作品之后，他的作品声名鹊起。
He specialized in vivid landscapes and portraits of nature, documenting begonias, dragonflies, grasshoppers, frogs, chickens, crabs and shrimp, lots of shrimp.
他擅长临摹栩栩如生的山水及刻画自然景物，他描摹了秋海棠、蜻蜓、蚱蜢、青蛙、鸡、螃蟹和虾，其中尤以画虾为最多。
Scholars say he was prolific and estimate he produced between 10,000 and 15,000 works in his lifetime. Of those, about 3,000 are in the collections of major museums and some are assumed to have been destroyed during the Japanese invasion in the 1930s or during the Cultural Revolution, when Red Guards looted and occupied his family’s home. 
学者们说，他是位多产的艺术家，估计一生中完成的作品总量在1万幅到1.5万幅之间。据猜测，他的一些作品在20世纪30年代的日本侵华战争中，或是文化大革命期间被毁掉了，文革期间，红卫兵洗劫并霸占了他的家。还有3000幅作品被收藏在主要的博物馆中。
Auction records, though, show that more than 18,000 distinctive works by Qi Baishi have been offered for sale since 1993, an impossible number, if the expert estimates are right.
尽管如此，拍卖记录显示，自1993年以来，有1.8万多幅不同的齐白石作品被拿出来拍卖；如果专家的估计正确，是不可能冒出这么多画作的。
In a study this year, Artron said many of China’s leading modern artists are being counterfeited, but none more so than Qi Baishi. Arnold Chang, who ran Sotheby’s Chinese painting division in the 1990s, is equally emphatic.
在今年的一项研究中，雅昌公司说，许多领先的中国当代艺术家的作品正被仿制，不过没有一人的被仿制量比得上齐白石。在20世纪90年代负责苏富比拍卖行中国画分部的张洪(Arnold Chang)对此同样确信不疑。
“There is no doubt,” he said, “that there are far more works ascribed to Qi Baishi in the market than he could have possibly painted, even with an assembly line of assistants — which he supposedly had.”
他说，“毫无疑问，市场上声称是齐白石所做的画，比他可能画出的画要多得多，就算算上助手以流水线方式生产出来的画也一样——据称他确实是这么干的。”
Just about every major city in China has an art dealer who claims access to high-quality Qi Baishi fakes. They are often sold as reproductions, as are many of the elaborate counterfeits created here, but experts say many of them invariably end up at auction, rebranded as the real thing. 
差不多每座中国大城市都有一家艺术交易商声称能获得高质量的齐白石仿制品。它们往往作为艺术复制品销售，与中国出炉的许多精致赝品一样，但专家们说，许多仿制品最终难免出现在拍卖中，改头换面号称真迹。
Qi Baishi’s own family, some of them painters, aggressively promote themselves as descendants of the famous artist in order to sell their works, done in his style. 
齐白石的亲属中有一些人是画家，他们以“齐白石的后代”为卖点，极力推销自己的画作，号称继承了他的风格。
“Some distant relatives can’t even draw very well, and they go out and claim they are Qi Baishi’s family,” said Qi Binghui, a granddaughter of the artist, who is based in Beijing. “If you’re going to do something in your grandfather’s name, at least live up to his standard.”
齐白石的孙女、在北京生活的齐秉慧说，“一些远房亲戚甚至连画都画得不太好，还出去自称是齐白石的亲戚。如果你打算以祖父的名义干点什么，至少，你应该达到他的标准。”
Family members say they have been pressed to authenticate fakes, to pose for photos with pieces that might go to auction and even to mass-produce famous works by Qi Baishi.
家人称他们被要求仿冒真品，同一些可能流入拍卖市场的作品合影，甚至批量生产齐白石的一些名作。
“I can tell you I was once asked to go to Thailand to justify a batch of 20 fake paintings claimed to be my grandfather’s,” Qi Binghui said. “That person was trying to sell those fake paintings in Thailand, and he wanted me to assure the buyers that they were real.” 
“我可以告诉你，有一次有人请我去泰国，去给20幅号称出自我爷爷之手的赝品作证，”齐秉慧说，“当时那个人正试图在泰国出售那些赝品，想让我向买家保证那些画是真品。”
Concern over fake Qi Baishis is now a challenge for auction houses. China Guardian, the big auction house, says it has an enviable record of spotting fakes, and most experts agree that its reputation stands above all others. But in the spring of 2011, China Guardian marketed “Eagle Standing on a Pine Tree” as the classic masterpiece the painter had created decades earlier to honor the birthday of Chiang Kai-shek, then president. 
如今，对仿齐白石的赝品的担忧是拍卖行面临的一个挑战。2011年，大型拍卖行中国嘉德，宣称它有着令人羡慕的识别赝品的纪录；大多数专家都同意嘉德的声誉与其他拍卖行比更出众。但是在2011年春天，嘉德推销齐白石的《松鹰图》时声称，这幅经典大作是几十年前画家为庆祝时任总统蒋介石的生日而创作的。
The work was put up for sale by Liu Yiqian, a former taxi driver turned wealthy financier, who has become one of China’s largest art collectors. He sold it as a set with a calligraphic couplet Qi Baishi wrote to accompany the painting, and the auction house estimated it could bring in as much as $20 million.
出售这幅画的是刘益谦。由出租车司机成为金融家的他，已是中国最大的艺术品收藏家之一。他是将这幅画，连同齐白石当时随附这幅画作的一幅书画对联一起出售。拍卖行当时估计，它能卖到2000万美元。
On a cool evening in May, bidding on the work went back and forth for more than 30 minutes as a collector in the room jousted with someone calling in bids by telephone. When the hammer fell at a record $65.4 million, the room burst into applause.
在5月一个凉爽的夜晚，拍卖现场的一名收藏者和一个通过电话竞拍的人展开了争夺，这幅作品的竞拍来来回回地持续了半个多小时。当拍卖最终以4.25亿元人民币（6540万美元）的价格落锤时，拍卖厅爆发出一片掌声。
The euphoria did not last long, though. An art critic, Mou Jianping, soon suggested that the work might be fake, and the bidder decided not to pay. Two years later, the buyer has effectively defaulted on the item.
但这种愉悦并未持续多久，艺术品评论人士牟建平提出这幅作品可能是赝品。于是，拍得这幅作品的电视公司湖南广电传媒集团拒绝付款。两年后，买家在这笔拍卖交易中造成了事实上的违约。
Mr. Liu declined to comment on the failed sale.
刘益谦拒绝对这笔流产的交易置评。
But in an interview last month, Kou Qin, director and vice president of China Guardian, described the nonpayment problem in the market as “a very bad phenomenon,” but one that will be fought. His company reduced its nonpayment rate for the most expensive items to 17 percent last year.
但在上月的一次采访中，中国嘉德董事兼副总经理寇勤称，市场上的拒付问题是“一种非常恶劣的现象”，但他们将与这个问题作斗争。去年，中国嘉德把高端拍品的拒付率降到了17%。
“Lack of honor,” he said. “It is a problem faced by the whole of society.” 
“言而无信，这是全社会面临的问题，”他如是说。