The meaning of a true eccentric isn’t in the costume — it’s in the soul.
真正的古怪不在于服装，而在于灵魂。 
Jeremy Langmead tells a memorable story about Isabella Blow. “Imagine the office at News International, all the male journalists sitting around in shirt sleeves,” Langmead says. Now the editor in chief of the online men’s wear retailer Mr Porter, Langmead was the editor who hired Isabella Blow as fashion director of the Sunday Times Style Magazine in London in 1997. “In comes Isabella wearing giant mink antlers sticking out from the top of a coat. It was absolutely about who she was in her soul. At lunchtime she would sit among all the printers, eating her roast beef dressed like that, as if it was the most natural thing in the world.”
杰里米·兰米德(Jeremy Langmead)讲述了一个关于伊莎贝拉·布罗(Isabella Blow)的难忘故事。“想象一下新闻国际公司的办公室，四周的男记者都穿着长袖衬衫，”兰米德说。兰米德如今是在线男装零售网Mr Porter的主编，1997年，他在伦敦《星期日泰晤士报时尚特刊》(Sunday Times Style Magazine)担任编辑期间，聘用伊莎贝拉·布罗担任该报时尚总监。“这时，伊莎贝拉走了进来，一个巨大的貂皮鹿角从她的大衣上面伸出来。这完全反映了她灵魂深处的样子。午餐时，她坐在打印机中间，穿着那样的服装，吃着烤牛肉，好像那是世界上最自然的事。”
The outlandish, deeply unusual former assistant at Vogue who became mentor to a generation of fashion designers, editors and photographers, Isabella Blow is the subject of a new exhibition set amid the Neo-Classical splendor of London’s Somerset House. The surroundings are appropriate, for this is not just a show but an acknowledgement of how her sense of style opened the minds of her peers. She is hereby raised into the pantheon, lauded for the very personal vision that once disgusted the establishment.
伊莎贝拉·布罗是《Vogue》的前助理，古怪、与众不同的她堪称一代服装设计师、编辑和摄影师的导师。现在，一场以她为主题的新展览在壮丽的、新古典主义风格的伦敦萨默塞特宫举行。在那里举行真是恰如其分，因为这不仅是一场展览，更是在昭示她的时尚感知力如何启发了她的同辈人。她的形象曾遭到传统权威的鄙视，如今在这里，她被赞美，被奉为神祗。
Blow was eccentric from her top feathers to the paint that adorned her toes. I used to see her at parties sometimes, and she was a fantastically alarming person; when she smiled, throwing her head back, you saw a sneering mouth so red with lipstick that it was like an open wound. She never seemed like just another one of the fashion crowd: she was a visionary who ripened with new ideas every morning, not every season, and was a genuine muse in a world of phonies.
布罗从头上的羽毛到脚上的指甲油都很古怪。我曾在一些派对上见过她，她让人感到不可思议的惊恐。她微笑的时候把头往后仰，你看到她嘲弄的嘴上涂着鲜红的唇膏，像一个张开的伤口。她从来不像时尚界的任何其他人。她创造力极强，她不是每一季都有新想法，而是每天早晨都有新想法，她是这个充满骗子的世界里真正的灵感女神。
True eccentrics — the Isabella Blows, the Vivienne Westwoods, the Anna Piaggis and the Stephen Tennants, as if there could ever be more than one of each — are the kind of people whose entire existence is devoted to individuality and innovation. That’s what makes a real eccentric: they really mean it, and they’re willing to suffer for it. Their social function is to explode our preconceptions about what beauty is and what good taste means. Eccentrics raise the bar on the impossible.
真正的怪人——像伊莎贝拉·布罗、薇薇安·韦斯特伍德(Vivienne Westwood)、安娜·皮亚姬(Anna Piaggi)和斯蒂芬·坦南特(Stephen Tennant)这样的人（我这么说不准确，因为这些人都是独一无二的），他们存在的意义就是追求个性和创新。真正的怪人是认真的，他们愿意承受古怪带来的痛苦。他们的社会价值就是打破我们对美和品位的偏见。怪人们使一切变得可能。
Yet, unfortunately, there are a few too many fake ones out there now. These are the imitators, the publicity scavengers, the ones who think it’s merely about fame or attention. They seem to be working not from a brilliant fund of ideas or from a conviction that their outer selves must be used to express a fascinating inner landscape. On the contrary, they’re just showoffs who dress up for the cameras. For people interested in our contemporary times, this is an important distinction: the true eccentric gives us more mystery, more wonder about being human, a new side to beauty, while the faux-eccentric gives us less of everything.The point of style, surely, has never been about just sticking on an outfit, or a weird hat, just to get a photograph of yourself on the Internet. There’s nothing startling about these people, except, perhaps, the degree of their conformity to the new media norms. By contrast, every one of Isabella Blow’s outfits was a complete reflection of her psychology and her convictions. Every day for Blow was a struggle for survival. She didn’t care what people thought, and the fakes care about nothing else.
但不幸的是，如今有太多假怪人。他们模仿别人，以自我宣传为目的，认为古怪就是为了获得名声或引起注意。他们装束怪异，不是因为他们有很多精彩的想法，也不是因为他们坚信，自己的外在形象应该用来表现自己迷人的内心世界。相反，他们打扮起来，就是为了卖弄，为了抢镜。对我们这个时代感兴趣的人认为这两者截然不同：真正的怪人让我们看到更多身为人类的神秘和神奇，看到了美的新层面，而假怪人不能带给我们任何东西。当然，时尚的意义从来都不仅在于一套衣服或一顶古怪的帽子，不只是为了在互联网上出名。这些假怪人没有任何让人吃惊之处，也许他们唯一让人吃惊的地方就是对新媒体规则的严格遵守。相比之下，伊莎贝拉·布罗的每套服饰都完全反映她的心理和信念。对布罗来说，每一天都是为生存而奋斗。她不在乎别人的看法，而假怪人们唯一在乎的就是别人的看法。
An eccentric who merits the label works from within. I once went to New York and called up the excellent dandy Quentin Crisp. (His number was in the phone book.) He, too, had the jaunty hat and the face emboldened with a ton of slap, but his brilliance was to see how society and its prejudices was a colorful absurdity that people like him could reflect back. He could show you depravity hiding in a business suit, and with a painted finger he could push the moral Anglepoise lamp just so, revealing how false and vain the supposedly “normal” world could be. And there he was, a man who had been spat at and reviled, sitting in the Waverly Restaurant surrounded by people mumbling into their tuna fish sandwiches, occasionally looking up and sniggering at this queer old gentleman wearing blue eye shadow and taking great care not to drop egg on his claret-colored suit.
真正的怪人从心底里看重标志性的作品。我曾到纽约给很会打扮的昆汀·克里斯普(Quentin Crisp)打电话（你能在电话簿上找到他的电话）。他戴着俏皮的帽子，脸上大胆地涂着厚重的脂粉，但是他的精彩之处在于，像他这样的人能反映出，社会和社会偏见是多么荒谬。他能向你展示藏在西服里面的堕落，他那涂着指甲油的手指能转动道德的万向灯，揭示出所谓的“正常”世界是多么虚假和虚荣。这个被唾弃、被辱骂的人坐在韦弗利餐厅，周围的人细嚼慢咽着他们的金枪鱼三明治，偶尔抬起头，窃笑这个涂着蓝色眼影、小心翼翼不让鸡蛋掉到深紫红色西服上的怪老头。
People like this are like beautiful storytellers, breaking rules you didn’t even know were there, just so you can see better and maybe be better. Life is so full of rules and so full of predictable routines that one can almost forget that art and life depend on spontaneity. Enter the eccentric. No, not you, Little Miss Where’s-the-Camera! And not you, Mr. I-Bought-My-Oddball-Persona-Off-the-Rack. I’m talking about someone like the performance artist, club kid and, latterly, the Lucian Freud model Leigh Bowery, walking around London in the 1980s dressed like a giant exclamation mark, or Penelope Betjeman, the upper-class animal lover, traveler and wit, wishing she could give birth to horses rather than to children. I’m talking about Stephen Tennant arriving in New York on the Berengaria, where he was met, according to his biographer Philip Hoare, by a friend who was quite astonished by his manner and appearance. Tennant came down the gangway in demi-wave and full makeup, holding a small bunch of flowers.
他们这类人就像很会讲故事的人，不断打破你根本没有意识到的规则，你因此能看到更美好的东西，也能变得更美好。生活充满了规则和习俗，以至于人们几乎忘了艺术和生命都是自然生发的。欢迎你来到怪人的世界。不，我不是说你，那个寻找镜头的小姐！也不是说你，那个假扮怪人的先生！我说的是行为艺术家、锐舞小子以及卢西恩·弗洛伊德(Lucian Freud)的模特利·鲍厄里(Leigh Bowery)，他在20世纪80年代穿得像个巨大的惊叹号在伦敦四处游走，或者佩内洛普·贝奇曼(Penelope Betjeman)，她是上层社会的动物爱好者、旅行家和智者，她希望自己能生出小马，而不是孩子。我说的是斯蒂芬·坦南特，据他的传记作者菲利普·霍尔(Philip Hoare)说，他搭乘伯伦加莉亚号到达纽约的时候，接他的朋友被他的举止和外貌吓了一跳。坦南特走下船舷时，留着小波浪卷发，画着浓妆，手里拿着一小束花。
“Pin ‘em on!” shouted the customs official, not exactly admiring of the stately English homosexual.
“把它们别上！”海关官员喊道。他显然并不是很赞赏这个高贵的英国同性恋的妆扮。
“Oh, have you got a pin?” Tennant said. “You kind, kind creature.”Isabella Blow would have died for her outrageous ideas — and many people maintain that she did. The McQueen frocks and the Philip Treacy hats weren’t what made her eccentric: the meal was the meal Blow made of herself, the phantasmagoric sense of fashion, beauty and invention. With her intelligence and her conviction, she could stare right past your most mundane, fearful self, seeing acres of freedom and possibility around each person. Eccentrics don’t just dress up; they elevate the conversation by revealing, as she did, the places where the conversation hasn’t yet dared to go.
“哦，你有夹子吗，我的好心人？”坦南特问道。很多人都认为，伊莎贝拉·布罗可以为自己疯狂的想法去死。她的古怪不是因为身穿麦昆(McQueen)的连衣裙、头戴菲利普·崔西(Philip Treacy)的帽子，而在于她自己，在于她对时尚、美和创新的变幻不定的感觉。凭借聪明和信念，她能够透过每个人平凡、恐惧的自我看见无限的自由和可能性。怪人们不只是把自己妆扮起来，他们敢于谈论一般人不敢谈论的话题，从而让谈话提升一个层次。
The accessories designer and Yves Saint Laurent muse Loulou de La Falaise was once described as a beauty “held together by gold thread,” and a large part of her eccentricity had to do with a love of fantasy. She could imagine her way out of the normal, and she wanted to drag the audience with her. At her wedding in 1977, according to Vogue, she “dressed as a 16th-century Maharaja in harem pants, sported a turban sprouting a flame-colored aigrette and carried a fistful of beribboned red anemones.”
配饰设计师、伊夫·圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)的缪斯，卢卢·德拉法莱斯(Loulou de La Falaise)曾被描述为“用金线织成的”美女。她的古怪主要源自于她对幻想的热爱。她能想出让自己不同寻常的方法，她想迷住观众。据《Vogue》杂志说，在她1977年的婚礼上，她“打扮得像个16世纪的印度王公，穿着哈伦裤，戴着头巾，头巾上伸出火红色的羽饰，手里拿着饰有缎带的红海葵”。
There are people who, as Oscar Wilde wrote, “know the price of everything and the value of nothing.” The faux eccentrics are the latest example of this type, a cynical little tribe indeed. One of the things Isabella Blow saw clearly was that true style isn’t a matter of doing what other people do, or even of doing things first, but of doing things memorably. The same is true of her wonderful kinswomen, like the Italian fashion writer and icon Anna Piaggi, who looked like a walking Picasso, or the decorator Madeleine Castaing, who lived her life as if it was a fairy story, believing that cheetahs, snakes and leopards made good friends and even better carpets. They didn’t always get the life they wanted, but they knew how to dream.
奥斯卡·王尔德(Oscar Wilde)曾写道，有些人“知道所有东西的价格，却不知道任何东西的价值”。假怪人就是这类人的最新例子，实际上他们是一个自私自利的小群体。伊莎贝拉·布罗清楚地知道，真正的时尚不是做其他人做过的事，甚至不是第一个做某些事，而是做让人印象深刻的事。她的那些杰出的同类们都是这样的，比如意大利时尚作家与时尚符号安娜·皮亚姬，她看起来像行走的毕加索图画；又如室内装潢师玛德琳·卡斯坦(Madeleine Castaing)，她像是活在童话故事里的人，认为猎豹、蛇和豹子是好朋友，更是做地毯的好材料。她们不总是能过上自己想要的生活，但她们知道如何去梦想。
“Fail better” might be the motto of most eccentrics, and I think of it when I contemplate the life of Edith Bouvier Beale, “Little Edie,” cousin of Jackie Kennedy and Lee Radziwill, who was always telling lies and running away, and was featured in the documentary “Grey Gardens.” She only liked men born under the sign of Sagittarius, and eventually she lived in the family house in the Hamptons surrounded by 1,000 bags’ worth of garbage. You wouldn’t say things worked out well for Little Edie, but she was a beautiful woman who went her own way. And maybe that’s the true definition of an eccentric — someone who can’t be slain by what lesser people might say. “I was born with the courage to live,” said Elsie de Wolfe, who is considered America’s first decorator, and who was dyeing her hair blue and doing handstands well into her 70s. “Only those are unwise who have never dared to be fools.”
“输得漂亮”可能是大多数怪人的座右铭。我在思考伊迪丝·布维尔·比尔(Edith Bouvier Beale)的一生时，想到了这一点。“小伊迪丝”是杰姬·肯尼迪(Jackie Kennedy)和李·拉齐维尔(Lee Radziwill)的表姐，她总是说谎和离家出走，她是纪录片《灰色花园》(Grey Gardens)的主人公。她只喜欢射手座的男人，最后生活在汉普顿斯的家族老屋中，被1000袋那么多的垃圾包围。你不能说“小伊迪丝”生活得很好，但她是个我行我素的美丽女人。也许那才是怪人的真正定义——不会被不重要的人说的话扼杀。“我生而拥有生活的勇气，”埃尔希·德·乌尔夫(Elsie de Wolfe)说。她被认为是美国的第一位室内装潢师，70多岁的时候，还把头发染成蓝色，还做手倒立。“只有从来不敢当傻瓜的人才是愚蠢的。”