Invisible from the roadway, hidden deep in the lush English countryside, Moscow Farm is an unlikely base for an international organized crime gang churning out a dangerous brew of fake vodka.
莫斯科农场(Moscow Farm)不太像是一个生产危险的假伏特加酒的国际有组织犯罪集团基地。它深藏于英国苍翠乡间的树木掩隐中，从马路上看是看不见的。
But a quarter of a mile off a one-lane road here, tens of thousands of liters of counterfeit spirits were distilled, pumped into genuine vodka bottles, with near-perfect counterfeit labels and duty stamps, and sold in corner shops across Britain. The fake Glen’s vodka looked real. But analysis revealed that it was spiked with bleach to lighten its color, and contained high levels of methanol, which in large doses can cause blindness.
但是，就是在这个距一条单车道小路四分之一英里远的地方，蒸馏了数以万公升计的假烈酒，装入真的伏特加瓶子，贴上几乎乱真的假标签及印花税票，在全英国各地的街角商店里出售。这种假的格兰(Glen's)伏特加看起来很像真的。但是经分析发现，酒里掺入了漂白粉以淡化色泽，并且甲醇水平很高，大量饮用可能致盲。
No one knows the harm done to those who drank it — or whether they connected any illness with their bargain vodka — but cases of poisoning have been reported throughout Europe, including in the Czech Republic, where more than 20 people died last year after drinking counterfeit liquor.
没人知道喝了这种酒的人受到了什么伤害——也不知道他们有没有把自身的疾病跟他们喝的廉价酒联系起来，但是欧洲各地都出现了中毒事件的报道。例如，去年捷克共和国有20多人在饮用假酒后死亡。
The Europe-wide scandal surrounding the substitution of cheaper horse meat in what had been labeled beef products caught the most attention from consumers, regulators and investigators this year. But in terms of food fraud, regulators and investigators say, that is just a hint of what has been happening as the economic crisis persists.
今年，全欧洲范围内都出现了在标为牛肉的产品中用廉价马肉替代的情况，消费者、监管者及调查者的注意力大多集中于这一丑闻。但是，监管者及调查者说，这只是持续的经济危机中食品造假现象的冰山一角。
Investigators have uncovered thousands of frauds, raising fresh questions about regulatory oversight as criminals offer bargain-hunting shoppers cheap versions of everyday products, including counterfeit chocolate and adulterated olive oil, Jacob’s Creek wine and even Bollinger Champagne. As the horse meat scandal showed, even legitimate companies can be overtaken by the murky world of food fraud.
调查者已经披露了上千起造假案件，使得人们质疑监管方的工作。犯罪分子为寻求便宜商品的购物者提供廉价日用品，包括假冒伪劣巧克力，兑了水的橄榄油，杰卡斯(Jacob’s Creek)葡萄酒，甚至还有堡林爵香槟(Bollinger Champagne)。正像马肉丑闻所表现的那样，甚至合法公司都有可能沾染食品造假的黑暗世界。
“Around the world, food fraud is an epidemic — in every single country where food is produced or grown, food fraud is occurring,” said Mitchell Weinberg, president and chief executive of Inscatech, a company that advises on food security. “Just about every single ingredient that has even a moderate economic value is potentially vulnerable to fraud.”
食品安全顾问公司Inscatech的首席执行官及总裁米切尔·维恩伯格(Mitchell Weinberg)说，“食品造假是个全球问题，在每个生产食品或种植粮食的国家，都在发生食品造假问题。几乎每个有一点点经济价值的成分都可能出现造假问题。”
Speaking at a recent conference organized by the consulting firm FoodChain Europe, Mr. Weinberg added that many processed products contain ingredients like sugar, vanilla, paprika, honey, olive oil or cocoa products that are tainted.
最近，维恩伯格在咨询公司欧洲食物链公司(FoodChain Europe)组织的一次会议上说，许多加工过的食品含有糖、香草、辣椒粉、蜂蜜、橄榄油或可可制品等被污染的调料。
Increasingly, those frauds are the work of organized international criminal networks lured by the potential for big profits in an illicit trade in which most forgers are never caught. The vodka gang boss, Kevin Eddishaw, was — but not before he had counterfeited liquor on an industrial scale, generating profits to match, according to investigators, who estimated that his distillery produced at least 165,000 bottles costing the British government $2.3 million in lost tax revenue.
这种造假越来越多地成为国际犯罪网络的手段，非法交易牟取暴利的可能性吸引它们投身其中。而在这种非法交易中，大部分造假者永远都不会被抓住。据调查者称，这个伏特加造假集团的老板凯文·艾迪肖(Kevin Eddishaw)利润非常丰厚——不过是在将假酒量产之后。调查者估计艾迪肖的酒厂至少生产了16.5万瓶假酒，使英国政府损失税收230万美元（约合1380万美元）。
“He was living a very nice lifestyle,” said Roddy Mackinnon, criminal investigation officer for Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, “a couple of properties, nice cars: a Range Rover, a Mercedes.”
英国税务海关总署(Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs)的刑事调查官罗迪·麦金农(Roddy Mackinnon)说，“他过得相当舒服，有几处房产，有好车：一辆路虎，一辆奔驰。”
Here at Moscow Farm, the gang used the production techniques of a modern-day factory equipped with at least $77,200 in equipment (while ignoring safety rules). Gang members bought bottles from the supplier of the real makers of Glen’s vodka, used forged labels from Poland, and faked duty stamps on boxes.
在莫斯科农场，该犯罪集团购置了价值至少在7.72万美元的设备，采用现代工厂的生产技术（同时无视安全规定）。犯罪集团成员从真的格兰伏特加酒厂的供货商处购得真瓶子，贴上来自波兰的假标签，还假冒了箱子上的印花税票。
“They tried to do as much as they could to replicate the real thing,” Mr. Mackinnon said. “They were very professional, there was attention to detail.”
麦金农说，“他们为假冒真品无所不用其极。他们非常专业，专注于细节。”
The plot fits a pattern, identified by Europol, the European Union’s law enforcement agency, which says organized crime groups have capitalized on the economic downturn.
欧盟执法部门欧洲刑警组织(Europol)认为，此案符合有组织犯罪集团利用经济衰退牟利的模式。
“In response to reduced consumer spending power, counterfeiters have expanded their range of products,” a recent Europol report said. In addition to the traditional counterfeit luxury product, organized crime groups “now also counterfeit daily consumer goods such as detergents, foodstuffs, cosmetic products and pharmaceuticals.”
欧洲刑警组织最近的一份报告称，“消费者购买力下降，因此，造假者扩大了他们的造假产品种类。”除了传统的假冒奢侈品之外，有组织的犯罪集团“现在也进行洗衣粉、食品、化妆品及药品等日常消费品的造假”。
Shaun Kennedy, associate professor at the University of Minnesota, estimated that 10 percent of food that consumers buy in the developed world was adulterated. Because the profit margins for foodstuffs are often within single digits, “if you dilute by 2 percent, that’s a big deal.” He cited a report from the United States’ Grocery Manufacturers Association saying that economic adulteration and counterfeiting of global food and consumer products was expected to cost the industry $10 billion to $15 billion a year.
明尼苏达州立大学(University of Minnesota)的副教授肖恩·肯尼迪(Shaun Kennedy)估计，发达国家消费者购买的食品中有10%都掺了假。由于食品的利润率常常是低于10%的，“如果稀释2%，这就是很大的利润”。他引用了美国食品生产协会(Grocery Manufacturers Association)的一份报告称，据估计，全球食品及消费品中的经济掺假和制假给每年产业带来的损失可能在100亿到150亿美元之间。
“Mostly the perpetrators are not intending to cause anyone harm — that would be bad for repeat business — but often they don’t understand the potential impact,” Mr. Kennedy added.
肯尼迪教授称，“造假者通常无意于伤害任何人，因为这样不利于招揽回头客，但是他们常常不知道自己的做法可能产生什么后果。”
Investigators say a huge array of deceptions exist. Simple ones involve presenting cheap products as branded or top-quality ones, like selling catfish as sea bream, labeling farmed salmon as wild or marketing battery-produced eggs as organic or free range. In February, the German authorities began investigating around 160 farms suspected of breaking rules on organic and free-range egg production, for example.
调查者称骗术是五花八门的。简单的骗术是将廉价产品充作名牌或顶级产品，像是用鲶鱼冒充海狸，把养鱼场产的鲑鱼当野生鲑鱼卖，或把鸡场产出的鸡蛋当做有机鸡蛋或柴鸡蛋卖。今年2月，德国官方开始调查涉嫌违反有机鸡蛋及柴鸡蛋生产规定的约160家农场。
In other cases, cheaper ingredients are added to genuine products to increase profit margins. Sometimes vegetable oil goes into chocolate bars, or pomegranate juice, wine, coffee, honey or olive oil is adulterated with water, sweeteners or cheaper substitutes.
还有的是将廉价原料掺入真的商品中，以提高利润率。有的会在巧克力棒里掺入植物油，或者在石榴汁、红酒、咖啡、蜂蜜、橄榄油里兑水、甜化剂或廉价替代品。
Whenever there is tampering, there are potential risks to health. Indian restaurants in Britain have been prosecuted for adding ground peanuts to almond powder, which poses a risk to allergy sufferers. Food experts say that engine oil is among the substances found in olive oil.
只要掺假，就有可能危害健康。英国的印度餐馆因为在杏仁粉中搀花生粉而被起诉，因为这种掺假可能会危害过敏患者。食品专家称，机油也在橄榄油的替代品之列。
Another fraud is to fake the packaging of well-known brands with writing in a foreign language so consumers believe they have a genuine product that was diverted abroad at a bargain price.
另外一种骗术是，假冒知名品牌的包装，包装上写着外语，使得消费者认为自己可以用便宜的价格买到转外销的真品。
In a depot in South London, trading standards officers display fake foods including about 300 bottles of counterfeit red and white wine, labeled Jacob’s Creek. One small detail gives away these otherwise convincing forgeries: the counterfeiters misspelled the name of the country where the real wine is produced — Australia — missing its middle “a.”
在伦敦南部的一个仓库，贸易标准部门官员展示了一些假冒伪劣食品，其中包括约300瓶假红葡萄酒及假白葡萄酒，商标是杰卡斯。一个小细节让这个看上去很难起疑心的假货露了馅：造假者拼错了真酒产地，把澳大利亚的Australia拼写成了Austrlia。
Russell Bignell, trading standards officer at Wandsworth Council, said bottles normally contained cheaper wine but added, “the fact is we don’t know what’s in it.”
旺兹沃思市议会(Wandsworth Council)的贸易标准官员拉塞尔·比格内尔(Russell Bignell)说，这些瓶子里一般都装了廉价酒。但是他补充说，“其实我们不知道里面装了什么。”