We’ve all been there. You wake up in the middle of the night and grab your smartphone to check the time — it’s 3 a.m. — and see an alert. Before you know it, you fall down a rabbit hole of email and Twitter. Sleep? Forget it.
这事我们都经历过。你半夜醒来，拿起你的智能手机看时间——现在是凌晨3点——然后看到一条提醒。然后稀里糊涂地就刷起邮件和Twitter来。睡觉？得了吧。
Well, I’ve found a $7 solution: an old-fashioned alarm clock. My smartphone has been banished from the bedroom.
我找到一个耗资7美元（约合42元人民币）的解决方案：一个老式闹钟。智能手机已经被我驱逐出卧室。
Sure, you can flip your phone to quiet mode. But the draw to roam in the early hours is powerful. Sleep researchers say this isn’t good for you. You might as well get up and drink a shot of espresso.
没错，你可以把手机设置成静音模式。但早早起来刷手机的诱惑力是巨大的。睡眠研究人员说了，这么做对你没好处。你还不如起来喝一杯意式咖啡。
“It’s a very slippery slope, once you’ve picked up your phone, to see what time it is, to checking your email, to lying awake with anxiety,” said Dr. David M. Claman, director of the Sleep Disorders Center at the University of California San Francisco Medical Center. “If you wake up in the middle of the night and check your phone, you will inevitably get frustrated and worried by something you’ve seen, leading your body to tense up.”
“这是条不归路，一旦你拿起手机看时间，就会查邮件，然后就会焦虑地干躺着睡不着，”加州大学旧金山医疗中心睡眠紊乱中心(Sleep Disorders Center at the University of California San Francisco Medical Center)主任戴维·M·克拉曼(David M. Claman)博士说。“如果半夜起来看手机，你会不可避免地被看到的东西弄得心烦意乱，导致你的身体开始紧张起来。”
Then it’s game over. You’re tossing and turning, thinking about an email, a text or a meeting in six hours.
然后就完了。你辗转反侧，想着某一封邮件、一条短信或六个小时后的一个会议。
Dr. Claman said smartphones in the bedroom have led to a rise in sleep-related complaints from his patients. “For people I see in their 20s and 30s, the phone is becoming a more common contributing factor to insomnia,” he said.
克拉曼博士说，在他的病人中，卧室里用智能手机导致的睡眠相关问题在增加。他说，“在经我诊断的二、三十岁病人当中，手机作为失眠症的一个诱因已经变得越来越常见。”
Some large, long-term studies on sleep disorders in the United Kingdom and Finland have found that stress-related issues have led to a rise in insomnia over the last decade. In the United States, according to the National Center on Sleep Disorders Research at the National Institutes of Health, as many as 40 percent of Americans suffer from insomnia in a given year. Ten to 15 percent have chronic insomnia.
在英国和芬兰进行的一些大规模的睡眠紊乱长期研究发现，过去十年里精神压力相关的问题导致了失眠症的增多。在美国，国立卫生研究院国家睡眠紊乱研究中心(National Center on Sleep Disorders Research at the National Institutes of Health)称，在一年内存在失眠问题的美国人可以多达40%。其中10%到15%有慢性失眠症。
All these sleep interruptions lead to work problems. A 2011 study by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine found that insomnia costs $2,280 in lost productivity per American worker every year. That adds up to $63 billion a year for the nation.
这些睡眠中断都会给工作带来问题。美国睡眠协会(American Academy of Sleep Medicine)在2011年的一次研究发现，失眠平均每年给每一个美国劳动者带来价值2280美元的生产率损失。这样计算，每年全国的损失总计就达630亿美元。
The draw of the smartphone is understandable. The alarm clock is a free feature. It’s also incredibly convenient — who doesn’t like being able to speak to their phone and say, “Wake me up at 7 a.m.”?
智能手机的吸引力是很容易理解的。闹钟是一个免费的功能。同时它还极为便利——谁不想对着手机说“早上7点叫醒我”呢？
Many Americans do like it, and they increasingly have brought their smartphones into their bedrooms. A 2013 Facebook-sponsored study by IDC Research found that 44 percent of the people who own a smartphone said they use it as an alarm clock. That number rose to 54 percent for people 18 to 24.
很多美国人就喜欢这样做，他们越来越多地把智能手机带到卧室里。2013年一份由Facebook赞助、国际数据公司研究中心(IDC Research)进行的研究发现，拥有智能手机的人当中有44%会用它作闹钟。在18到24岁的人当中，这个比例上升到了54%。
Device makers are helping the trend along and hoping these figures rise. Most new alarm clocks made today are designed to be married to a smartphone.
设备制造商也在推动这股潮流，希望这个数字继续上升。现在新出现的闹钟大多是跟智能手机结合的。
This goes against years of research showing that screens, in any capacity, do everything but help us fall asleep. In 2012, the American Medical Association’s Council on Science and Public Health said that “exposure to excessive light at night, including extended use of various electronic media, can disrupt sleep or exacerbate sleep disorders.”
这和多年来的研究结果是相悖的，研究表明电子设备屏幕无论尺寸大小都是不利于我们睡着的。2012年，美国医学会(American Medical Association)的科学和公共健康委员会(Council on Science and Public Health)说，“在夜间暴露于过度的光照下，包括长时间使用各种电子媒体，会对睡眠造成干扰，或使睡眠紊乱恶化。”
Sleep researchers say that looking at a blue light, which is produced by smartphone and tablet screens, sets off brain receptors that are designed to keep us awake and interferes with circadian sleep patterns. Experimental research has found that if people use a tablet for up to two hours before bed, it takes an extra hour to fall asleep.
睡眠研究人员说，注视智能手机和平板电脑发出的蓝光会触发让我们保持清醒的大脑受体，干扰生物钟的睡眠规律。实验研究发现，如果一个人在睡前使用平板电脑的时间长达两个小时，他要再多花一个小时才能入睡。
Orfeu M. Buxton, a neuroscientist and assistant professor in the division of sleep medicine at Harvard Medical School, said the phone in the bedroom could set off what he called “threat vigilance,” which is a type of anxiety that keeps you awake. “This means that you’re never off, you’re always watchful, which is a hallmark to insomnia,” he said.
哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)睡眠医学助理教授、神经科学家奥尔费乌·M·巴克斯顿(Orfeu M. Buxton)说，在卧室里用手机会触发他所说的“威胁警觉”，这是一种会让你无法入睡的焦虑。“就是说你会歇不下来，你会一直保持警觉，而这正是失眠的特征，”他说。
Teens fare the worst. Some children in middle school not only bring their phone into the bedroom but also leave the ringer on. “I have found that 10 or 15 percent of teens in middle school are hardened insomniacs that not only sleep with their cellphones on but feel they have to be responsive to intrusion, in case a friend is in need,” Mr. Buxton said.
青少年的情况是最糟的。一些上中学的孩子不但把手机带进卧室，还会把铃声打开。巴克斯顿说，“我发现中学生中有10%到15%的患有严重失眠症，他们不但带着手机睡觉，还认为他们必须及时对干扰做出回应，以防是朋友找他们有事。”
This I know: Little good comes from looking at your phone at 3 a.m. So for now, my bedroom rule is this: No gadgets allowed.
有一点我是知道的：凌晨三点盯着手机看不会有什么益处。所以现在我的卧室准则是：禁止设备进入。
Except my new alarm clock. It has no apps or Wi-Fi, but it wakes me up in the morning, not in the middle of the night.
只有我的新闹钟除外。它没有软件应用，没有Wi-Fi，但是它能在早上叫醒我，而不是半夜。