Two new studies have found that people with sleep apnea, a common disorder that causes snoring, fatigue and dangerous pauses in breathing at night, have a higher risk of cancer. The new research marks the first time that sleep apnea has been linked to cancer in humans.
睡眠呼吸暂停综合症是一种常见病，可能导致打鼾、疲劳和危险的夜间呼吸暂停。两项最新研究发现，患有此种疾病的人罹患癌症的风险更高。这是睡眠呼吸暂停综合症首次与人类癌症风险联系在一起。
About 28 million Americans have some form of sleep apnea, though many cases go undiagnosed. For sleep doctors, the condition is a top concern because it deprives the body of oxygen at night and often coincides with cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes.
约有2800万美国人患有不同程度的睡眠呼吸暂停综合症，然而许多病人并未得到诊断。对于睡眠科医生，这一状况被视为头号大敌，因为它会导致身体在夜间缺氧，而且经常伴随着心血管疾病、肥胖症和糖尿病。
"This is really big news," said Dr. Joseph Golish, a professor of sleep medicine with the MetroHealth System in Cleveland who was not involved in the research. "It's the first time this has been shown, and it looks like a very solid association," he said.
“这可不是件小事，”克利夫兰市健康服务体系(Metro Health System)的睡眠医学教授约瑟夫·戈里什(Joseph Golish)医生指出。他本人并未参与此项研究。“这是研究者首次发现此种联系，而且这种联系的存在似乎证据确凿。”
Dr. Golish, the former chief of sleep medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, said that the cancer link may not prove to be as strong as the well-documented relationship between sleep apnea and cardiovascular disease, "but until disproven, it would be one more reason to get your apnea treated or to get it diagnosed if you think you might have it."
戈里什医生是克利夫兰医学院的睡眠医学系前负责人。他表示，睡眠呼吸暂停综合症与癌症之间的联系或许没有其与心血管病之间的联系那么强。关于后者，已有大量研究文献证明其相关性。“但在另有证据推翻这一结论之前，如果你觉得自己可能患有睡眠呼吸暂停综合症，那么你又多了个理由，要尽快治疗或确诊。”
In one of the new studies, researchers in Spain followed thousands of patients at sleep clinics and found that those with the most severe forms of sleep apnea had a 65 percent greater risk of developing cancer of any kind. The second study, of about 1,500 government workers in Wisconsin, showed that those with the most breathing abnormalities at night had five times the rate of dying from cancer as people without the sleep disorder. Both research teams only looked at cancer diagnoses and outcomes in general, without focusing on any specific type of cancer.
在一项最新研究中，西班牙研究人员跟踪记录了数千名在睡眠诊所接受治疗的病人，发现那些睡眠呼吸暂停综合症病况最严重的人患上各类癌症的风险要高出65%。针对威斯康辛州1500余名政府工作人员的第二项研究显示，最常经历夜间呼吸异常状况的人死于癌症的风险是那些没有睡眠障碍问题的人的5倍。两个研究团队都仅关注癌症的诊出和总体预后状况，并未具体分析特定癌症。
In both studies, being presented in San Francisco this week at an international conference organized by the American Thoracic Society, the researchers ruled out the possibility that the usual risk factors for cancer, like age, smoking, alcohol use, physical activity and weight, could have played a role. The association between cancer and disordered breathing at night remained even after they adjusted these and other variables.
这两项研究结果提交发布于本周在旧金山召开的一场由美国胸科协会主办的国际会议上。在研究中，研究者均排除了可能影响结果的其他常见癌症风险因素，如年龄、烟草和酒精摄入、运动状况和体重等。即便在根据这些因素和其他变量加以调整之后，癌症与夜间呼吸障碍之间的联系依然显著。
Dr. Mitesh Borad, a cancer researcher and assistant professor of medicine at the Mayo Clinic who was not involved with the studies, called the findings "provocative" but said more research was needed to confirm the association. The studies were observational, and other, unknown factors may account for the correlation between sleep apnea and cancer.
梅奥医学中心(Mayo Clinic)的癌症研究人员、医学助理教授米捷什·博拉德(Mitesh Borad)医生并未参与这两项研究。他认为这些发现“令人深省”，但表示仍需更多研究来验证该种联系确实存在。这两项研究都是观察性研究（与有对照组的干预研究相对——译注），其他未知因素或许会影响到睡眠呼吸暂停综合症与癌症之间的相关性。
Recent animal studies have suggested that sleep apnea might play a role in cancer. When mice with tumors were placed in low-oxygen environments that simulate the effects of sleep apnea, their cancers progressed more rapidly. Scientist speculate that depriving mice of oxygen may cause their bodies to develop more blood vessels to compensate, an effect that could act as a kind of fertilizer for cancer tissue and cause tumors to grow and spread more quickly.
最近的几项动物研究表明，睡眠呼吸暂停综合症或许会导致癌症。将长有肿瘤的小鼠置于氧气浓度低的环境中，以达到睡眠呼吸暂停综合症的效果，这些小鼠的癌症恶化速度要快得多。科学家推测，令小鼠处于缺氧状态或许会促使它们的身体用增生血管的方式加以补偿，这相当于为癌变组织提供“肥料”，让肿瘤生长和扩散得格外迅速。
The researchers wondered whether a similar relationship might exist in people with sleep apnea, in whom throat muscles collapse during sleep, choking off the airway and causing gasping and snoring as the body fights for air. Severe sleep apnea can produce hundreds of such episodes each night, depleting the body of oxygen.
研究人员想要知道，类似的关系是否也存在于患有睡眠呼吸暂停综合症的人中。病人入睡期间喉部肌肉松弛塌陷，阻塞气道，当身体拼命获取氧气时，便导致憋气或打鼾。严重的睡眠呼吸暂停综合症患者一晚上可以经历上百次类似的发作，令身体缺氧。
In one study, a team at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health examined data on state workers taking part in the long-running Wisconsin Sleep Cohort, who since 1989 have undergone extensive overnight sleep studies and other measures of health about every four years. The landmark project was one of the first to reveal the widespread occurrence of sleep apnea in the general population.
威斯康辛大学(University of Wisconsin)医学与公共卫生学院的研究小组在一项研究中，对参与“威斯康辛睡眠队列研究”的州政府工作人员的数据加以分析。这些研究对象自1989年起，每四年时间便要接受详尽的整晚睡眠研究及其他健康状况检查。这一具有历史意义的项目最早揭示出睡眠呼吸暂停综合症在一般人群中的普遍存在。
The researchers found that the more severe a person's breathing problems at night, the greater the likelihood of dying from cancer. People with moderate apnea were found to die of cancer at a rate double that of people without disordered breathing at night, while those in the severe category died at a rate 4.8 times that of those without the sleep disorder.
研究人员发现，一个人夜间呼吸问题越严重，其未来死于癌症的可能性就越高。患有中度睡眠呼吸暂停综合症的人死于癌症的风险是没有夜间呼吸障碍问题的人的两倍，而那些睡眠呼吸暂停综合症重症患者的风险更高达不存在睡眠障碍者的4.8倍。
"That is really striking," said Dr. F. Javier Nieto, one of the study's authors and chairman of the department of population health sciences at the University of Wisconsin. "It could be something else, but it's hard to imagine that something we didn't control for is causing this."
“这的确引人注目，”该项研究作者之一、威斯康辛大学群体健康科学系主任F·哈维尔·涅托(F. Javier Nieto)医生表示。“当然也可能存在其他原因，但很难想像我们未加控制的其他因素会导致这一结果。”
In the second study, researchers with the Spanish Sleep Network took a slightly different approach, looking not at cancer mortality among apnea patients, but at the incidence of cancer. They used a measure called the hypoxemia index, which looks at the amount of time the level of oxygen in a person's blood drops below 90 percent at night.
在第二项研究中，西班牙睡眠网络(Spanish Sleep Network)的研究人员采取了一种略为不同的研究途径。他们所考察的并非睡眠呼吸暂停综合症患者的癌症死亡率，而是癌症发病率。研究者使用低血氧指数(hypoxemia index)作为评估标准，该指数考察个体夜间血氧浓度低于90%的时长。
About 5,200 people were followed for seven years, none of whom had a cancer diagnosis when the study began. The researchers found that the greater the extent of hypoxemia, or oxygen depletion, during sleep, the more likely a person would receive a cancer diagnosis during the study period.
该研究对5200人进行了长达7年的跟踪调查，在起始阶段，所有调查对象都未被诊断出患有癌症。研究者发现，睡眠时低血氧指数越高，调查对象在研究持续期间被诊断出癌症的可能性也就越大。
People whose oxygen levels dropped below 90 percent for up to 12 percent of the total time they were asleep, for example, had a 68 percent greater likelihood of developing cancer than people whose oxygen levels did not plummet at night, said study author Dr. Miguel Angel Martinez-Garcia of La Fe University and Polytechnic Hospital in Spain. As time spent without oxygen increased, so, too, did cancer risk.
该研究作者、西班牙拉斐大学理工学院医院的米格尔·安赫尔·马丁内斯-加西亚(Miguel Angel Martinez-Garcia)医生指出，例如那些睡眠过程中12%的时间血氧浓度低于90%的人，患上癌症的风险就比夜晚血氧浓度不会骤然下降的人高出68%。处于缺氧状态下的时间越长，癌症风险也便相应增加。
Although the study did not look for it, Dr. Martinez-Garcia speculated that treatments for sleep apnea like continuous positive airway pressure, or CPAP, which keeps the airways open at night, might reduce the association.
尽管该项研究并未涉及干预方法，马丁内斯-加西亚医生猜测，用来治疗睡眠呼吸暂停综合症、保持晚间气道通畅的连续气道正压通气疗法（continuous positive airway pressure，简称CPAP）或许可以减少癌症风险。
The Wisconsin study also did not specifically look at the impact of treatment for apnea on survival, either, but when people who were being treated with CPAP were removed from the analysis, the cancer association became stronger, "which is consistent with the hypoxemia theory," Dr. Nieto said.
威斯康辛大学的研究也没有涉及睡眠呼吸暂停综合症治疗与癌症存活率之间的关系。但当那些接受了CPAP治疗的调查对象在数据分析时被排除在外时，睡眠呼吸暂停综合症与癌症之间的相关性变得更强了，“这与低血氧理论相吻合，”涅托医生指出。
"I would say that this is one more instance that shows that sleep apnea can have profound impacts for people's health," he added. "Not breathing while you're sleeping is a serious problem."
他补充道，“我想指出，这是表明睡眠呼吸暂停综合症显著影响健康的另一例证。睡觉时无法呼吸是件非同小可的事。”