THE BEST PATH to a healthy weight may be a good night’s sleep.
通向健康体重的最佳途径，或许只是一夜好眠而已。
For years researchers have known that adults who sleep less than five or six hours a night are at higher risk of being overweight. Among children, sleeping less than 10 hours a night is associated with weight gain.
多年来，研究人员一直清楚这个事实：每晚睡眠不足五六个小时的成年人，其超重风险更高。而在儿童中，每晚睡眠不足10小时也跟体重增长有关系。
Now a fascinating new study suggests that the link may be even more insidious than previously thought. Losing just a few hours of sleep a few nights in a row can lead to almost immediate weight gain.
而现在，一个引人注目的新研究发现，这种联系也许比此前人们认识到的更为显著：每晚缺少几小时睡眠，连续这样数晚，就能导致体重立竿见影地往上窜。
Sleep researchers from the University of Colorado recruited 16 healthy men and women for a two-week experiment tracking sleep, metabolism and eating habits. Nothing was left to chance: the subjects stayed in a special room that allowed researchers to track their metabolism by measuring the amount of oxygen they used and carbon dioxide they produced. Every bite of food was recorded, and strict sleep schedules were imposed.
科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)的睡眠研究人员征召了16名健康的男性和女性参加为期两周的试验，记录他们的睡眠、代谢和饮食习惯。试验没有容下半点含糊之处：受试者住在一个特别的房子里，研究者可以通过测量他们吸入的氧气和呼出的二氧化碳量来追踪记录他们的代谢水平。每吃下去的一口食物都被记录在案，且要严格遵守睡眠时间安排。
The goal was to determine how inadequate sleep over just one week — similar to what might occur when students cram for exams or when office workers stay up late to meet a looming deadline — affects a person’s weight, behavior and physiology.
研究人员的目的是发现，仅仅缺觉一个星期——这种情况跟学生在考前临时抱佛脚，或者员工为了即将到来的最后期限而赶工差不多——会如何影响一个人的体重、行为和生理机能。
During the first week of the study, half the people were allowed to sleep nine hours a night while the other half stayed up until about midnight and then could sleep up to five hours. Everyone was given unlimited access to food. In the second week, the nine-hour sleepers were then restricted to five hours of sleep a night, while the sleep-deprived participants were allowed an extra four hours.
在研究的第一周，半数受试者可以每晚睡九小时，而其余半数只能在午夜时分睡觉，总共最多能睡五小时。每个人都可以任意进餐。而在第二周，九小时睡眠组只能得到五小时睡觉，前一周缺觉的受试者则可以每天多睡四小时。
Notably, the researchers found that staying up late and getting just five hours of sleep increased a person’s metabolism. Sleep-deprived participants actually burned an extra 111 calories a day, according to the findings published last week in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
研究者发现，很晚睡觉而且只能睡五小时，显著地增加了一个人的代谢量。据这篇上周发表在《美国国家科学院院刊》(The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)的研究表示，事实上，缺觉的受试者每天会额外燃烧111大卡热量。
But even though we burn more calories when we stay awake, losing sleep is not a good way to lose weight. The light sleepers ended up eating far more than those who got nine hours of sleep, and by the end of the first week the sleep-deprived subjects had gained an average of about two pounds.
不过，尽管我们清醒时会多燃烧热量，不睡觉并不是减重的好方法。睡眠不足的人会比每天睡足九小时的人吃的更多，在研究第一周结束时，缺觉组平均每人增重约两磅（约合900克）。
During the second week, members of the group that had originally slept nine hours also gained weight when they were restricted to just five hours. And the other group began to lose some (but not all) of the weight gained in that first sleep-deprived week.
在第二周，原先能睡够九小时的受试者只能每天睡五小时，他们也随之开始增重。而另一组开始慢慢减去了在缺觉的第一周增加的部分（而非全部）体重。
Kenneth Wrightdirector of the university’s sleep and chronobiology laboratory, said part of the change was behavioral. Staying up late and skimping on sleep led to not only more eating, but a shift in the type of foods a person consumed.
科罗拉多大学睡眠和时间生物学实验室主任肯尼斯·赖特(Kenneth Wright)说，改变部分源自受试者的行为。迟迟不睡觉不仅会让人多吃，同时也会改变其所摄取的食物种类。
“We found that when people weren’t getting enough sleep they overate carbohydrates,” he said. “They ate more food, and when they ate food also changed. They ate a smaller breakfast and they ate a lot more after dinner.”
赖特说：“我们发现那些缺觉的人会多吃碳水化合物。他们吃的东西更多，而且所吃的食物也发生了变化。他们的早饭吃得较少，而在晚饭后吃的零食增多了。”
In fact, sleep-deprived eaters ended up eating more calories during after-dinner snacking than in any other meal during the day. Over all, people consumed 6 percent more calories when they got too little sleep. Once they started sleeping more, they began eating more healthfully, consuming fewer carbohydrates and fats. Dr. Wright noted that the effect of sleep deprivation on weight would likely be similar in the real world although it might not be as pronounced as in the controlled environment. The researchers found that insufficient sleep changed the timing of a person’s internal clock, and that in turn appeared to influence the changes in eating habits. “They were awake three hours before their internal nighttime had ended,” Dr. Wright said. “Being awakened during their biological night is probably why they ate smaller breakfasts.”
缺觉的人晚餐后吃的零食所含的热量，事实上比他们白天的任何一餐饭热量都更高。总的来说，当人们睡眠不足时，所摄入的热量要比平时高出6%。一旦他们的睡眠时间增加，就开始吃得更健康，而且吃的碳水化合物和脂肪变少了。赖特博士指出，在真实生活中睡眠不足对体重产生的影响应该与受控制的试验环境中相仿，不过效果可能不会那么显著。研究人员发现缺觉会改变一个人的生物钟节奏，而这反过来似乎会影响一个人的进食习惯。“在他们起床三小时后，他们在生理上的夜晚才刚刚结束。由于醒来时他们的生物钟仍处在夜晚，所以早饭吃得不多。”
The effect was similar to the jet lag that occurs when a person travels from California to New York.
这种改变跟一个人从加州飞到纽约时所碰到的时差反应类似。
Last fall, The Annals of Internal Medicine reported on a study by University of Chicago researchers, who found that lack of sleep alters the biology of fat cells. In the small study — just seven healthy volunteers — the researchers tracked the changes that occurred when subjects moved from 8.5 hours of sleep to just 4.5 hours. After four nights of less sleep, their fat cells were less sensitive to insulin, a metabolic change associated with both diabetes and obesity.
去年秋季，《内科学年鉴》(The Annals of Internal Medicine)报道了芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)科研人员所进行的一项研究，研究发现睡眠不足可改变脂肪细胞的生物学特性。在这项只有七个健康志愿者参加的小型研究中，研究者记录下受试者从每天八个半小时睡眠减少为仅有四个半小时睡眠时，所发生的种种变化。在经过了四个缺觉的夜晚后，他们的脂肪细胞对胰岛素的敏感度降低了，这种代谢改变与糖尿病和肥胖症都有联系。
“Metabolically, lack of sleep aged fat cells about 20 years,” said Matthew Brady, an associate professor of medicine at the University of Chicago and the senior author on the study.
这项研究的资深作者，芝加哥大学医学院副教授马修·布拉迪(Matthew Brady)说：“从代谢角度来说，睡眠不足可使脂肪细胞老化20年左右。”
“These subjects were in their low 20s but it’s as if they were now middle-aged in terms of their response. We were surprised how profound the effects were.”
“受试者都才20岁出头，但从他们的脂肪细胞反应来看，他们简直都跟中年人一样。我们对发生了如此显著的效果都深感意外。”
Both Drs. Wright and Brady noted that because their studies lasted only days, it was not clear how long-term sleep deprivation affects weight, and whether the body adjusts to less sleep.
赖特和布拉迪都表示，他们的试验只持续了数天，因此现在并不能确切了解缺觉对体重会产生怎样的长期影响，也不知道人体是否会渐渐适应睡眠不足。
Dr. Brady said that while better sleep would not solve the obesity problem, paying more attention to sleep habits could help individuals better manage their weight.
布拉迪说，尽管较优质的睡眠并不会解决肥胖问题，但对睡眠习惯多加注意可以帮助人们更好地管理自己的体重。
In the future he hopes to study whether a focus on better sleep could improve the health of people in middle age who are overweight or prediabetic.
他希望在今后可以进一步研究这个问题：通过关注睡眠质量的改善，是否能改善超重或出现糖尿病前期症状的中年人的健康。
“Telling someone they need to sleep more as a way to improve their metabolic health, we think would be more palatable,” said Dr. Brady. “We think sleep is very underappreciated.”
布拉迪博士说：“我们觉得，告诉人们多睡点觉能改善代谢健康，大家更能听得进去。现在睡眠的作用被大大低估了。”