Jeb Bush once called for building prisons and emphasizing “punishment over therapy” for juvenile offenders. Today, he supports reforming the criminal justice system, arguing that incarceration can harden low-level lawbreakers into career criminals.
杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)曾经呼吁建造监狱，强调对少年犯“惩戒比治疗更重要”。如今，他支持改革刑事司法制度，并且指出，监禁可能会让程度较轻的违法者变成职业罪犯。
In the past, he stressed using deportation to rid the United States of unauthorized immigrants. These days, he describes crossing the border illegally as “an act of love” by migrant parents and supports a path to citizenship for those who have done so.
过去，他支持用遣返的方式清除美国境内的非法移民。如今，他把非法穿越边境称作移民父母“爱心驱使下的行动”，支持为他们提供一条获得公民身份的途径。
He used to emphasize the rights of big landowners who felt cheated by environmental programs. Now, he is a champion of state-sponsored conservation, celebrated for his $2 billion program to restore the Everglades.
他过去注重那些感到被环境项目所欺骗的大型土地所有者的权利。如今，他支持由州政府出资开展环保行动，他发起了20亿美元的大沼泽地(Everglades)恢复项目，于是为他赢得了声名。
Mr. Bush, 61, the former governor of Florida, insists that he will not contort himself to satisfy the ideologues of the Republican Party as he lays the groundwork for a possible presidential run in 2016. But as he pledges to stay true to his beliefs, an examination of Mr. Bush’s record reveals ways in which those views have already changed since his first run for elected office — in presentation, in tone, in language and, at times, in substance.
布什现年61岁，是佛罗里达州的前州长。他正在为2016年参加总统竞选的可能性打基础，现在他坚称，不会为了迎合共和党的意识形态而勉强自己。但就在他承诺坚守自己信念的同时，如果仔细研究布什以往的表态，就会发现自从他首次竞选公职以来，其观点的某些层面已经发生改变——表述方式、语调、措辞，有时甚至是实质性的改变。
The long trail of Mr. Bush’s pronouncements — from his days as a candidate for governor of Florida in 1994 to today in his role as a public policy expert bent on recasting the Republican brand — will inevitability invite suspicion from within his party that he lacks genuine conservative conviction, a wariness that he needs to overcome to win the Republican nomination. But the journey may give Mr. Bush the broader, cross-party appeal necessary to compete in a presidential general election.
布什长期以来的各种表态——从1994年作为佛罗里达州州长候选人的时期，到作为公共政策专家致力于重塑共和党品牌的今天——将不可避免地招致党内的质疑：他缺乏真正的保守派信念。他需要克服这种疑虑，才能赢得共和党提名。但布什的这种变化也可能使他具有了更广泛的、超越党派的魅力，而要想在大选中脱颖而出，这是必不可少的。
Over the past two decades, Mr. Bush has shifted from a doctrinaire and, in his word, “headbanging” version of conservatism, forged in the crucible of Newt Gingrich’s revolt-driven Republican Party, to a more nuanced approach, one influenced, colleagues said, by his immersion in the multiculturalism of Florida and his adoption of the Catholic faith.
过去20年里，布什已经从教条主义，以及用他的话说“疯狂”的保守主义，转变成了一种更加微妙的态度。前者是在纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)领导的，由反叛推动的共和党熔炉中造就的。他的同事们说，他发生转变的影响因素，是佛罗里达州多元文化的整体环境，以及他的天主教信仰。
“There is an evolution in temperament and an evolution in judgment and an evolution in wisdom — and there is an evolution in his respect for others’ point of view,” said Al Cardenas, a longtime friend who insisted that Mr. Bush had “not changed his conservative values.”
“秉性的转变，判断力的转变，智慧的转变——此外，他对其他人的观点也变得更为尊重，”布什的长期友人阿尔·卡德纳斯(Al Cardenas)说。但他强调说，布什“没有改变他的保守派价值观”。
For Mr. Bush, the pattern was illustrated last week by a head-turning statement on the legalization of same-sex marriage in Florida, when he urged “respect” for the unions and offered words of conciliation to same-sex couples “making lifetime commitments to each other.”
就布什而言，这种变化在上周一则引人注目的声明中得到了展现。声明的主题是佛罗里达州同性婚姻的合法化。他呼吁“尊重”这种结合，向那些“对彼此做出一生承诺”的同性伴侣表达了包容。
In 1994, as he ran for governor in Florida, Mr. Bush employed strikingly different language when discussing gay rights, arguing that “polluters, pedophiles, pornographers, drunk drivers and developers without permits receive — and deserve — precious little representation or defense from their governor.” He concluded that “we have enough special categories, enough victims.”
1994年，在竞选佛罗里达州长期间，布什采用了迥然不同的语言谈论了同性恋的权利，称“污染者、恋童癖、淫秽品作者、酒驾司机，以及没有许可的开发商，得不到宝贵的发言权以及州长的辩护，而且理当如此”。他总结说，“我们已经有了足够的特殊人群，也有足够的受害者。”
From that point, he has been on a long walk away from such harshness. Friends, advisers and outside analysts said the deepest transformation had occurred after his stinging loss in the 1994 race, even as the Republican Party achieved victories so sweeping that it took control of the House of Representatives for the first time in 40 years.
在此之后，他与这种强硬态度渐行渐远。友人、顾问和外部分析人士说，最深刻的转型发生在他1994年选举惨败之后，尽管当时共和党获得了压倒性的胜利，40年来首次控制了众议院。
His unstinting message of financial austerity and tear-it-down conservatism had alienated many Florida voters. “He lost because he did not come across as particularly likable,” said Aubrey Jewett, a professor of political science at the University of Central Florida who has studied Mr. Bush. “He was harsh.”
他不断提出的财政紧缩观点，以及毫不掩饰的保守主义倾向，曾经疏远了佛罗里达州的许多选民。“他败选是因为，他不是特别招人喜欢，”中佛罗里达大学(University of Central Florida)研究布什的政治学教授奥布雷·朱伊特(Aubrey Jewett)说，“他很尖刻。”
Sally Bradshaw, who advised Mr. Bush during that period, said: “He learned from his loss that there are ways to bring people together and ways to drive people apart. The lesson from ’94 was that he wanted to bring people together.”
在那段时期为布什担任顾问的萨莉·布拉德肖(Sally Bradshaw)说：“他从自己的失败中发现，有些方法可以把人团结起来，有些方法则会让自己众叛亲离。94年的教训让他明白，要把人团结起来。”
A chastened Mr. Bush re-evaluated his style. He co-founded a charter school in an impoverished Miami neighborhood and visited shelters for abused woman. He played down rigidity. “The ideological battle is not as important as it once was,” he told The New York Times in 1998 as he prepared his second race for governor, which he won.
经过磨砺的布什重新审视了自己的风格。他在一个贫穷的迈阿密社区联合创办了一所特许学校，走访了受虐妇女的避难所。他软化了自己的僵硬立场。“意识形态之争不像以往那么重要了，”他在1998年为第二次竞选州长做准备期间对时报表示。这一次，他赢了。
A useful case study: the environment. Before the 1994 election, Mr. Bush supported a state constitutional amendment, also backed by big corporations, to compensate landowners hurt by conservation efforts. He held out the prospect of cutting funds for a major program to purchase environmentally fragile lands and declared that “excessive regulation does not mean we are going to improve the quality of water, air or land-use planning.”
环境问题就是一个很好的例子。在1994年的选举前，布什曾支持一份州宪法修订案，要对受到环保项目影响的土地所有者进行补偿，该法案也得到了一些大公司的支持。布什提出了削减一个用于购买环境脆弱土地的大型项目资金的可能性，并声称，“过度监管并不意味着我们就能够改善水、空气或土地使用规划的质量。”
Allison DeFoor, who was a top environmental adviser to Mr. Bush when he became governor, said bluntly, “He was hostile to the environment in 1994.”
艾利森·德福(Allison Defoor)在布什当选州长时是他的高级环境顾问。他曾直言不讳地说，“他在1994年对环境是有敌意的。”
But Mr. Bush was open to arguments from the other side. He met with conservation experts and toured important environmental sites across Florida. When he was elected four years later, “his heart changed,” Mr. DeFoor said.
但布什对对立方的观点持开放态度。他与环境保护专家见了面，参观了佛罗里达州各地的环保区。四年后当选州长时，“他的想法已经变了，”德福说。
As governor, Mr. Bush invested heavily in a plan to restore the Everglades, eroded over time by development and agriculture. He called the wetlands “a treasure” and kept a toy version of a manatee, an endangered aquatic mammal, on his desk.
作为州长，布什大举投资了一个恢复佛罗里达大沼泽地的项目，这片沼泽受到了土地开发和农业活动的长期侵蚀。他把这些湿地称作“宝藏”，还在办公桌上放了一个海牛玩具，这是一种濒危的水生哺乳动物。
Matthew T. Corrigan, a professor at the University of North Florida who wrote a book, “Conservative Hurricane,” about Mr. Bush’s agenda as governor, said Mr. Bush’s “overall presentation has changed, especially since he left the governor’s office” in 2007.
北佛罗里达大学教授马修·T·科里根(Matthew T. Corrigan)是《保守的飓风》(Conservative Hurricane)一书的作者，该书谈论了布什作为州长的议程。科里根说，布什的“整体面貌已经改变，尤其是在2007年离开州长职位之后。”