SEOUL, South Korea — Shin Dong-hyuk, the best-known survivor of a North Korean prison camp, said on Sunday that he was retracting central elements of his widely reported life story that has helped him win international human rights awards and become a star witness for the United Nations’ unprecedented investigative report on North Korean human rights abuse.
韩国首尔——最知名的朝鲜集中营幸存者申东赫(Shin Dong-hyuk)周日表示，他打算收回一些有关自身经历的核心说法。他的这些个人经历受到广泛报道，帮助他赢得了多个国际人权奖项。在联合国针对朝鲜人权状况撰写的一份前所未有的调查报告中，他也成了引人关注的证人。
Mr. Shin has become the most celebrated survivor of torture and other human rights abuse at a North Korean gulag, as his story was widely told through numerous media interviews, a 2007 memoir he published in Korean, and “Escape From Camp 14,” a best-selling 2012 book written by Blaine Harden, a former Washington Post reporter.
申东赫已经成为朝鲜劳改营酷刑及其他践踏人权的行为的最知名亲历者。他的故事通过各种渠道被广泛传播，包括不计其数的媒体采访，2007年他以韩语出版的一本回忆录，以及前《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)记者布莱恩·哈登(Blaine Harden)撰写的畅销书《逃离第14号集中营》(Escape from Camp 14)。
Most recently, he was a key witness for the Commission of Inquiry, an initative started by the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2013, with a one-year mandate to investigate what the council called allegations of “systematic, widespread and grave violations of human rights,” including possible crimes against humanity, by the North Korean authorities. Based on the panel’s report, published last year, the United Nations adopted a resolution recommending that Kim Jong-un and other top North Korean leaders be sued for a “crime against humanity” at the International Criminal Court.
不久前，他还成为了调查委员会(Commission of Inquiry)的关键证人，该机构2013年由联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)设立，用一年的时间调查了人权理事会所说的，朝鲜当局“系统、广泛而严重地侵犯人权”行为，包括可能的反人类的罪行。根据上述委员会去年发布的报告，联合国通过了一项决议，建议在国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)以“反人类罪”起诉金正恩和其他朝鲜最高领导人。
But in recent weeks, his credibility has been questioned by not only the North Korean government but also a growing number of human rights advocates and former North Korean political prison camp survivors living in South Korea. They were waiting for him to return from a trip to the United States this week to answer questions.
然而最近几周，他的信誉受到了质疑。提出质疑的不仅有朝鲜政府，还有越来越多的人权倡导人士，以及从关押政治犯的朝鲜监狱逃脱、现居韩国的幸存者。他们正在等待申东赫本周从美国回国，并回应质疑。
“I am sorry to a lot of people,” Mr. Shin said by telephone from the United States, where he recently married a Korean-American woman and is expecting to be a father soon. “I knew I could hide it no longer, but I dithered because friends feared the damage my coming out might do to the movement for North Korean human rights.”
“我对很多人感到抱歉，”身在美国的申东赫通过电话表示。他不久前在美国与一名美籍韩裔女子结婚，很快就要当爸爸了。“我知道我不能再隐瞒了，但我退缩了，因为朋友们担心我说出真相后，揭露朝鲜人权问题的行动会受到损害。”
Mr. Shin’s international fame rested largely on his remarkable story: He said he was not only born inside Camp 14 — a sprawling cluster of villages in mountains north of the North Korean capital Pyongyang, a place known as “a total-control zone” from which no inmate expected to leave alive — but also lived there, surviving hunger and torture, until he miraculously escaped in 2005, at age 23, and fled to South Korea the following year.
申东赫在国际上的知名度主要来自于他不同寻常的经历：他说自己不光出生在14号集中营——朝鲜首都平壤北部山区中的一大片村子，也被称为“完全控制区域”，没有一名囚犯可以指望活着出来——也一直在那里生活，在饥饿和酷刑的折磨中活了下来，直到2005年，当时23岁的他奇迹般地逃了出来，并于次年逃到了韩国。
Mr. Shin was the first North Korean who came south who claimed to have escaped from a “total-control zone,” or any other prison camp.
申东赫是第一个来到韩国并声称自己逃离了“完全控制区域”或其他任何集中营的朝鲜人。
More than a dozen other North Korean prison camp survivors have escaped to South Korea, but all of them were former inmates who were freed after serving terms in less tightly controlled prison camps, such as Camp 18 and Camp 15 (which is also known as Yodok), and fled to South Korea.
另外还有十多名朝鲜集中营幸存者逃到了韩国，但这些人均是在管制不那么严格的集中营，比如第18号集中营和第15号集中营（又名耀德集中营）刑满获释后逃去韩国的。
Mr. Shin’s story has been hailed as the first and only firsthand description of life inside a dreaded “total-control zone,” where he said guards beat children to death. The inmates were put to work in mines or logging camps until they died, with no hope of redemption, he said.
申东赫的故事被当做是对令人毛骨悚然的“完全控制区域”内的生活，首次公之于众的第一手描述。他说那里的看守打死过小孩，并称囚犯被迫挖矿或伐木到死，没有获释的希望。
Now, Mr. Shin said he spent most of his life in North Korea not in Camp 14 but in Camp 18. Mr. Harden and Ahn Myeong-cheol, Mr. Shin’s longtime acquaintance who is also a former prison camp guard from the North, said they had heard Mr. Shin’s revised story.
现在，申东赫称自己在朝鲜生活的大部分时间不是在14号集中营度过的，而是在18号集中营。哈登和安明哲(Ahn Myeong-cheol)称，他们听申东赫讲了更正后的故事。安明哲和申东赫相识已久，逃离朝鲜前曾是一名集中营看守。
“I didn’t realize that changing these details would be important,” Mr. Harden quoted Mr. Shin as saying. “I feel very bad that I wasn’t able to come forward with the full truth at the beginning.”
“我那时没有意识到更改这些细节会有重要影响，”哈登援引申东赫的话说。“我对自己未能在一开始就说出全部真相感到非常抱歉。”
Mr. Shin’s change of story raised questions about the credibility of the detailed testimonies he has given about North Korean human rights abuse, citing them as his firsthand knowledge from Camp 14.
申东赫讲述过朝鲜践踏人权的细节，并称那是他从14号集中营了解到的第一手情况。但他改变口径的做法，使其证词的可信度受到了质疑。
Camp 18, across a river from Camp 14, was also a place of widespread human rights violations, but it was a far less restricted place than Camp 14. The South Korean government’s 2014 white paper on North Korean human rights said that unlike other prison camps, Camp 18 and part of Yodok allowed their inmates to retain civil rights, join the ruling Workers’ Party and marry. Two former inmates of Camp 18 said the people there received salaries in the late 1980s and 1990s, when Mr. Shin now says he spent most of his life in the North there.
与14号集中营隔河相对的18号集中营也普遍存在违反人权的行为，但那里的管制远不及14号集中营。韩国政府2014年就朝鲜人权状况发表的白皮书称，不同于其他集中营，位于耀德郡的18号集中营允许囚犯保留公民权利、加入执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers’ Party)，也可以结婚。曾在18号集中营服刑的两名人士称，上世纪80年代末和90年代，那里的服刑人员是有工资的。而申东赫现在称自己在朝鲜度过的大部分时间，正处于这个时间段。
In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Harden said Mr. Shin admitted to him that when he was about 6, he, his mother and his brother were transferred to Camp 18.
在周日的一份声明中，哈登称申东赫向自己坦承，大约6岁时，其母亲和兄弟被转移到了18号集中营。