T. H. Tsien, a scholar of Chinese books and printing who in 1941 risked his life to smuggle tens of thousands of rare volumes to safety amid the Japanese occupation of Shanghai, died on April 9 at his home in Chicago. He was 105.
4月9日，中国书史及印刷史学者钱存训(T. H. Tsien)，在其位于芝加哥的家中去世，享年105岁，他曾在日本占领上海期间冒着生命危险把数万本珍稀古籍偷运到安全地点。
His death was announced by the University of Chicago, with which he had been associated since the late 1940s. At his death, he was an emeritus professor of East Asian languages and civilizations there and an emeritus curator of the university’s East Asian library.
钱存训去世的消息是由芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)发布的，他和该校的渊源始于1940年代末。去世时，他是芝加哥大学的东亚语言文化专业荣誉教授和东亚图书馆(East Asian library)荣誉馆长。
One of the world’s most renowned scholars of Chinese bibliography and paleography — the study of ancient writing — Professor Tsien (pronounced chee-AHN) was the author of scores of books and articles, many in English, about the august history of the written word in China. As he was fond of reminding people, movable type originated in China centuries before Gutenberg.
钱存训是世界上最知名的中国书目和古文字学学者之一，曾以中国文字的悠久历史为题写过大量书籍和文章，而且其中很多都是用英文写就的。他喜欢提醒世人，中国人最先发明了活字印刷术，比古登堡(Gutenberg)早好几百年。
Professor Tsien, who was born in China in the twilight of the reign of its last emperor, was a young librarian there during the Japanese occupation, which lasted from 1931 until the end of World War II. Working in secret, he was charged with keeping a trove of precious volumes, some dating to the first millennium B.C., from falling into the occupiers’ hands.
钱存训在中国出生之际，恰逢中国末代皇帝的统治濒临终结。在日据时期（从1931年到二战结束），他成了一名年轻的图书管理员。为了不让一批珍稀善本落入占领者手中，他接受了一项秘密的任务。其中一些古籍已有2000多年的历史。
The Library of Congress in Washington agreed to take some 30,000 volumes, but the difficulty lay in getting them out of Shanghai. By 1941, the city’s harbor and customs office were under the control of the Japanese, who would have seized the books and very likely destroyed them. Had Professor Tsien’s work been uncovered, he would almost certainly have been executed.
位于华盛顿的国会图书馆(Library of Congress)同意接收3万册善本，但让人犯难的是如何将善本运出上海。到1941年的时候，上海的港口和海关都处于日本人的控制之下，这些善本如果被他们截获，很有可能被毁。而钱存训的秘密任务一旦暴露，他几乎肯定会被处死。
Determined to get the books out of China at all costs, Professor Tsien could not have done so, he later wrote, had it not been for a turn of fate.
他决心不惜一切代价把书运出中国，但钱存训后来写道，要不是一个偶然的机会，他是不可能完成这件事的。
Tsuen-hsuin Tsien was born on Dec. 1, 1909, in the Jiangsu Province of eastern China. As a youth, he edited a student publication advocating the overthrow of the warlords who since the 1910s had been savagely partitioning the country. Soon afterward, he and his teacher were arrested by a local warlord’s henchmen.
钱存训于1909年12月1日出生于中国东部的江苏省。青年时代，他编过一本学生刊物，主张推翻自1910年代以来一直试图野蛮瓜分中国的军阀。此后不久，他和他的老师被当地军阀的亲信逮捕。
Young Mr. Tsien was released; the teacher was executed. Mr. Tsien joined the Nationalist Army, which in 1928 helped defeat the warlords, unifying China.
年轻的钱存训后来被释放；而老师则被处死了。钱存训加入了国民革命军，这支军队在1928年打败了军阀，统一了中国。
At the University of Nanking (now Nanjing), Mr. Tsien studied Chinese and Western history and library science, earning an undergraduate degree in 1932. He later went to work in the Nanjing branch of China’s national library.
钱存训进入金陵大学（今南京大学）读中国及西方历史和图书馆学，于1932年获得本科学位。后来，他去了如今是国家图书馆南京分馆的机构工作。
In 1937, at grave risk, Mr. Tsien fled Nanjing with more than a dozen family members just before the Japanese massacre there. The massacre, known ever after as the Rape of Nanking, resulted in the killing of more than 300,000 civilians and the rape of more than 80,000 women. Settling in Shanghai, he joined the national library’s branch there.
1937年，钱存训冒着巨大的危险，与十几名家人一起逃离南京，刚好是在日本人进行大屠杀之前。后来在历史上被称为“南京大屠杀”的那场杀戳，造成30多万平民被杀死，逾8万名妇女被强奸。在上海住下来后，他加入了国家图书馆的上海分馆。
In the wake of the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931, some 60,000 rare books, among China’s foremost cultural treasures, had been moved from Beijing to Shanghai for safekeeping. After Japan seized Shanghai in 1937, the books — including those Mr. Tsien would smuggle out of China — were secreted in the city’s French Concession and International Settlement.
1931年日本侵略东北三省之后，约有6万册善本从北京转移到上海保管，这些古籍代表着中国最重要的文化瑰宝。1937年，日本人占领上海之后，这些古籍（包括钱存训后来偷运出中国的那些）被藏到了上海的法租界和公共租界。
Long-term plans for the volumes were essential, but the question remained: How to get them past customs?
保护这些善本的长远计划至关重要，但问题依然存在：如何让它们通过海关？
Mr. Tsien agonized over the problem for the next few years. Then, in 1941, an old schoolmate of his wife’s came for a visit. The schoolmate had a brother who happened to be a customs agent. Mr. Tsien recruited the agent to his cause.
在接下来的几年里，钱存训为这个问题焦虑不已。后来在1941年，他夫人的一个老同学来家中拜访。这位同学有个哥哥恰巧是海关工作人员。钱存训动员了那个人来帮助自己的事业。
Covertly packing 30,000 of the books into 102 wooden crates, Mr. Tsien labeled them, on the agent’s advice, as new books purchased by the Library of Congress. In the guise of a bookseller, he created false invoices to accompany the shipments.
钱存训秘密地把3万册善本装进102个木箱里，并按照那位海关人员的建议，在箱子上标出它们是美国国会图书馆购买的新书。他以一个书商的身份，为发货制造了假发票。
The crates left the Port of Shanghai a few at a time, moving through customs when Mr. Tsien’s confederate was on duty. The last one left China on Dec. 5, 1941, two days before Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.
这些木箱子分几次从上海的港口运出，每次过海关时，都是钱存训的同伙值班。最后一个箱子于1941年12月5日离开了中国，那是日本袭击珍珠港的两天前。
At the Library of Congress, the books were microfilmed for posterity — an enterprise, entailing more than a thousand rolls of film, that has made them accessible to scholars worldwide.
在美国国会图书馆，这些书籍被翻拍为永久保存的缩微胶卷，总共有上千卷之多，让全世界的学者能够查阅它们。
In 1947, Mr. Tsien was dispatched to the United States to retrieve the books. But the outbreak of civil war between China’s Communists and its ruling Nationalists precluded his returning home.
1947年，钱存训被派往美国索回这些古籍。但是，中国的共产党和统治中国的国民党之间爆发了内战，阻止了他的回程。
Accepting an invitation from the University of Chicago library to catalog its Chinese holdings, he went on to earn a master’s degree in library science from the university in 1952, followed by a Ph.D. in library science and East Asian studies there in 1957. Over the coming decades, Professor Tsien built the university’s collection of East Asian books into one of the foremost in the United States.
他接受了美国芝加哥大学图书馆的邀请，为馆藏的中国书籍编目，后来，他于1952年获得了芝加哥大学的图书馆学硕士学位，再后来，于1957年获得了图书馆学和东亚研究的博士学位。在那以后的几十年里，钱存训扩大了芝加哥大学东亚图书馆的馆藏，使其成为美国最重要的东亚图书馆之一。
Professor Tsien’s wife, Wen-ching Hsu Tsien, died in 2008, as did a daughter, Ginger Tsien. His survivors include two other daughters, Mary Tsien Dunkel and Gloria Tsien; a sister, Cunrou Qian; a brother, Cunxue Qian; and two step-grandchildren.
钱存训的夫人许文锦(Wen-ching Hsu Tsien)和长女钱孝岑(Ginger Tsien)于2008年去世。他的后人包括另外两个女儿：钱孝岳(Mary Tsien Dunkel)和钱孝娥(Gloria Tsien)；妹妹钱存柔；弟弟钱存学；以及两个继外孙辈的后代。
His books include “A History of Writing and Writing Materials in Ancient China” (1975); “Written on Bamboo and Silk: The Beginnings of Chinese Books and Inscriptions,” published in a revised edition in 2004; and “Collected Writings on Chinese Culture” (2011).
他的英文著作包括1975年出版“A History of Writing and Writing Materials in Ancient China”、2004年出了修订版的《书于竹帛——中国古代的文字记录》(Written on Bamboo and Silk: The Beginnings of Chinese Books and Inscriptions)、以及2011年出版的“Collected Writings on Chinese Culture”。
Among his laurels is the Distinguished Service Award from the National Library of China, which he received in 1999. In 2007, Nanjing University opened the T. H. Tsien Library, seeded with thousands of volumes from his personal collection.
他的荣誉包括中国国家图书馆1999年授予他的“终身成就奖”。2007年，南京大学在钱存训个人收藏的基础上，成立了钱存训图书馆。