WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump called the FBI director, James B. Comey, weeks after he took office and asked him when federal authorities were going to put out word that Trump was not personally under investigation, according to two people briefed on the call.
华盛顿——据两名知情人士介绍，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统上任几周后给联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)打电话，询问联邦当局打算何时放出消息，表明特朗普本人没有受到调查。
Comey told the president that if he wanted to know details about the bureau’s investigations, he should not contact him directly but instead follow the proper procedures and have the White House counsel send any inquires to the Justice Department, according to those people.
这些知情人士称，科米告诉总统，如果总统希望了解联邦调查局的调查细节，那么不应直接与他联系，而应遵循适当的程序，让白宫律师向司法部询问。
After explaining to Trump how communications with the FBI should work, Comey believed he had effectively drawn the line after a series of encounters he had with the president and other White House officials that he felt jeopardized the FBI’s independence. At the time, Comey was overseeing the investigation into links between Trump’s associates and Russia.
经过一系列同总统及其他白宫官员的接触，科米感到联邦调查局的独立性受到了威胁，然而在向特朗普解释了应当如何与联邦调查局进行沟通之后，他相信自己已经有效地划出了界限。当时，科米正在监督对特朗普的助手同俄罗斯之间的联系的调查。
Those interactions included a dinner in which associates of Comey say Trump asked him to pledge his loyalty and a meeting in the Oval Office at which Trump told him he hoped Comey would shut down an investigation into Trump’s former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Trump has denied making the request.
科米和总统及白宫的互动包括一次晚餐，科米身边的人说，特朗普在晚餐上要求科米承诺效忠自己；此外，在椭圆形办公室会议的一次会议中，特朗普还曾表示希望科米终止对总统前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的调查。特朗普否认自己曾经提出这一要求。
The day after the Flynn conversation, Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, asked Comey to help push back on reports in the news media that Trump’s associates had been in contact with Russian intelligence officials during the campaign.
在关于弗林那次对话的翌日，白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)要求科米帮忙，回击新闻媒体报道中关于特朗普助手在竞选活动中曾与俄罗斯情报官员有过接触的消息。
Comey described all of his encounters with the president and the White House — including the phone call from Trump — in detailed memos he wrote at the time and gave to his aides. Congressional investigators have requested copies of the memos, which, according to two people who have read them, provide snapshots of a fraught relationship between a president trying to win over and influence an FBI director, and someone who had built his reputation on asserting his independence, sometimes in a dramatic way.
当时，科米在备忘录中详细描述了他与总统和白宫人员的所有交涉，包括特朗普打来的电话在内，并将备忘录交给了自己的助手。国会调查人员已经要求得到备忘录的副本，根据两位读过这些备忘录的人士称，它们简单地勾勒出二人之间非常艰难的关系：总统想要赢得联邦调查局局长的支持，并对他施加影响；后者则以坚持独立性而著称，有时会以一种颇具戏剧性的方式达成这一目的。
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said in a statement Thursday that “the sworn testimony” of both Comey and Andrew G. McCabe, the FBI’s acting director, “make clear that there was never any attempt to interfere in this investigation. As the president previously stated, he respects the ongoing investigations and will continue working to fulfill his promises to the American people.”
白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)周四在一份声明中表示，科米和联邦调查局的代理局长安德鲁·G·麦凯布(Andrew G. McCabe)的“宣誓证言”都“明确表示，从未有过干涉这项调查的尝试。正如总统以前所声明的，他尊重正在进行的调查工作，并将继续努力履行对美国人民的承诺”。
It is not clear whether in all their interactions Comey answered Trump’s question or if he ever told him whether he was under investigation. In the letter Trump sent to Comey last week in which he informed him that he had been fired, Trump told Comey, “I greatly appreciate you informing me, on three separate occasions, that I am not under investigation.”
在二人所有的互动中，科米有没有回答特朗普的问题，或者有没有告诉过特朗普他是否受到调查，目前尚不分明。特朗普上周在通知科米已被解雇的信函中说，“我非常感谢你三次在不同的场合中告诉我，我没有受到调查。”
The FBI’s longest-running director, J. Edgar Hoover, had close relationships with several presidents. But in the modern FBI, directors have sought an arm’s length relationship with the presidents they serve and have followed Justice Department guidelines outlining how the White House should have limited contact with the FBI.
J·埃德加·胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover)是在任时间最长的联邦调查局局长，他与数位总统都有着密切的关系。但在近几十年的联邦调查局历史中，局长们都尽量与其所服务的总统保持一定距离，并遵循司法部的相关准则，其中规定了白宫如何同联邦调查局保持有限制的联系。
Those guidelines, which also cover the FBI, prohibit conversations with the White House about active criminal investigations unless they are “important for the performance of the president’s duties and appropriate from a law enforcement perspective.” When such conversations are necessary, only the attorney general or the deputy attorney general can initiate those discussions.
这些准则也约束着联邦调查局，禁止它与白宫讨论正在进行中的刑事调查，除非这种讨论“对于履行总统的职责是重要的，并且从执法的角度来说是适当的”。如果这种对话是有必要的，只有司法部长或司法部副部长可以启动这些讨论。
Comey has spoken privately of his concerns that the contacts from Trump and his aides were inappropriate, and how he felt compelled to resist them.
科米私下里说过，他担心自己同特朗普及其助手的接触是不适宜的，他感到必须抵制这些接触。
“He had to throw some brushback pitches to the administration,” Benjamin Wittes, a friend of Comey’s, said in interviews.
“他不得不向行政部门做出一些表示，让他们知难而退，”科米的朋友本杰明·威茨(Benjamin Wittes)在接受采访时说。
Wittes, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, the editor-in-chief of the Lawfare blog and a frequent critic of Trump, recalls a lunch he had with Comey in March at which Comey told him he had spent the first two months of Trump’s administration trying to preserve distance between the FBI and the White House and educating it on the proper way to interact with the bureau.
威茨是布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的高级研究员及Lawfare博客的总编，经常批评特朗普。他回忆三月与科米共进午餐时，科米告诉他，特朗普上任两个月以来，自己一直在试图令联邦调查局和白宫之间保持距离，并教育白宫以适当的方式同联邦调查局进行互动。
Wittes said he never intended to publicly discuss his conversations with Comey. But after The New York Times reported earlier this month that shortly after his inauguration Trump asked Comey for a loyalty pledge, Wittes said he saw Trump’s behavior in a “more menacing light” and decided to speak out.
威茨说自己从来没有打算公开讨论他和科米之间的对话。但看到《纽约时报》本月早些时候报道说，特朗普在就职典礼不久后就要求科米宣誓效忠，威茨说，他开始“从一个更危险的角度”看待特朗普的行为，于是决定说出来。
Wittes said that Comey told him that despite Trump’s attempts to build a personal relationship, he did not want to be friendly with the president and thought any conversation with him or personal contact was inappropriate.
威茨说，科米告诉他，尽管特朗普试图建立一种私人关系，但他并不想和总统有什么友好往来，并且认为与总统进行任何谈话或私人接触都是不合适的。
Their conversation took place after Comey’s phone call with the president, Wittes said, and Comey told him that his relationship with the president and the White House staff was now in the right place.
他们的谈话是在科米和总统通电话之后进行的，威茨说，科米告诉他，他和总统以及白宫工作人员的关系此时已经保持在了正确的位置上。
“'I think we’ve kind of got them trained,'” Wittes said, paraphrasing what Comey told him.
“‘我想我们算是把他们训练好了，’”威茨转述科米告诉他的话说。
But he said Comey had also described other encounters with the president that had troubled him.
但他说，科米还描述了与总统的其他往来，也都令他感到困扰。
One of those occurred at the White House on Jan. 22, just two days after Trump was sworn in. That day, Trump hosted a ceremony to honor law enforcement officials who had provided security for the inauguration.
其中一次发生在白宫，就在特朗普宣誓就职两天之后的1月22日。那天特朗普主持了一个仪式，表彰为就职典礼提供安全保卫的执法人员。
Wittes said that Comey told him that he initially did not want to go to the meeting because the FBI director should not have too close a relationship with the White House. But Comey went because he wanted to represent the bureau.
威茨说，科米告诉他，自己最初不想去参加这个会议，因为联邦调查局局长不应和白宫产生过于密切的关系。但是，因为科米想要代表整个调查局，所以还是去了。
The ceremony occurred in the Blue Room of the White House, where many senior law enforcement officials — including the Secret Service director — had gathered. Comey — who is 6 feet 8 inches tall and was wearing a dark blue suit that day — told Wittes that he tried to blend in with the blue curtains in the back of the room, in the hopes that Trump would not spot him and call him out.
仪式在白宫的蓝厅举行，许多高级执法官员相聚一堂，特勤局局长也在场。身高超过两米的科米当天穿着深蓝色的西装，他告诉威茨，自己尽量和房间后面的蓝色窗帘融为一体，希望特朗普不会发现他，把他叫出来。
“He thought he had gotten through and not been noticed or singled out and that he was going to get away without an individual interaction,” Wittes said Comey told him.
“他一度认为自己已经过关了，没有被注意到或者被叫出来，不做什么私人互动就可以离开，”威茨说科米这样告诉他。
But Trump spotted Comey and called him out.
但是特朗普发现了科米，把他叫了出来。
“Oh and there’s Jim,” Trump said. “He’s become more famous than me.”
“哦，那不是吉姆吗，”特朗普说。“他已经比我更出名了。”
With an abashed look on his face, Comey walked up to Trump.
面带窘态的科米走到了特朗普身边。
“Comey said that as he was walking across the room he was determined that there wasn’t going to be a hug,” Wittes said. “It was bad enough there was going to be a handshake. And Comey has long arms so Comey said he pre-emptively reached out for a handshake and grabbed the president’s hand. But Trump pulled him into an embrace and Comey didn’t reciprocate. If you look at the video, it’s one person shaking hands and another hugging.”
“科米说，当他穿过房间走向特朗普的时候，他下定决心不和特朗普拥抱，”威茨说。“光是握手就已经很不好了。科米的胳膊很长，所以，他说，他就先发制人，抢先伸出手去抓住了总统的手。但是特朗普把他拉进怀里，对此科米没有回应。如果你看视频就可以发现，一个人是在握手，另一个是在拥抱。”
Comey told Wittes of another encounter, on March 1, that also troubled him.
科米还告诉威茨，3月1日的另一次接触也让他觉得烦恼。
Wittes said that Comey said that he received a call from the White House and was told that “the president needs to talk to you urgently.”
威茨说，科米说他那天接到了白宫的电话，被告知“总统需要同你进行紧急交谈”。
Wittes said that Comey told him that he perceived the call as Trump still “trying to get him on the team and he saw it in light of his refusal to give him his loyalty.”
威茨说，科米告诉他，他认为特朗普仍然“试图拉他入伙，他觉得这个电话是因为他拒绝向特朗普效忠”。
“Trump was still trying to get him on board,” Wittes said.
“特朗普还在试图拉拢他，”威茨说。
Wittes said that in another conversation he told Comey he was encouraged by the fact that the Senate was likely to confirm Rod J. Rosenstein, a longtime federal prosecutor, as the deputy attorney general.
威茨表示，在另一次谈话中，他告诉科米，参议院可能会确认资深联邦检察官罗德·J·罗森斯坦(Rod J. Rosenstein)担任副司法部长，这个消息令自己感到振奋。
To Wittes’ surprise, Comey did not completely agree with him.
令威茨惊讶的是，科米并不完全同意他的看法。
“He said, ‘I don’t know. I have some concerns. He’s good, he’s solid but he’s also a survivor and you don’t survive that long without making some compromises and I’m concerned about that.'”
“他说，‘我不知道。我有一些顾虑。他很好，有真才实学，但他也是一个幸存者，幸存了这么久，你不可能没有做出过妥协，我就是担心这个。’”
Weeks after his confirmation, Rosenstein wrote a memo that Trump initially cited as the justification for firing Comey. Rosenstein told members of the Senate on Thursday that Trump had already decided to fire him when he wrote it.
罗森斯坦的任命得到确认几周之后，他在一份备忘录中写到了特朗普最初用以解雇科米的那些理由。罗森斯坦于星期四告诉参议员们，在他写下这些话的时候，特朗普已经决定解雇科米。