Tama Robertson is an artist who sells paintings and makes jewelry, but this being New York City, she also works in real estate. She has worked as an associate broker and invested in some properties of her own, but in recent years, she has supplemented her income with something a bit more contentious: She rents out a room in her own apartment to travelers she finds on the website Airbnb.
塔玛·罗伯逊(Tama Robertson)是一位艺术家，她不但销售画作，也制作珠宝。但这里毕竟是纽约嘛，她还在房地产领域工作。除了一直做着助理经纪人的工作，她还自己投资了一些房产。但近些年来，她通过某种颇有争议的方式，补贴着自己的收入：她把自己公寓中的一个房间出租给了她从Airbnb网站上找到的一些旅行者。
By sharing her kitchen and her keys with strangers, she estimates that she brings in up to $10,000 a year.
通过与陌生人共享她的厨房和房间钥匙，她预计自己每年可以增加将近1万美元（约合人民币6万元）的收入。
Airbnb is a service that is adored by some, despised by others, and most commonly known as a place to rent out your apartment while you’re out of town for a few days. But doing so is often illegal in New York City, one reason the company has locked horns with the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman.
Airbnb是一项有人喜欢、有人鄙视的服务。大家往往将它当做一个可以在外出的日子里出租自家公寓的地方。但在纽约，做这件事往往是违法的，这也是该公司与纽约州检查长埃里克·T·施耐德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)争吵不休的原因之一。
A huge amount of money hangs in the balance of this dispute, including revenue for Airbnb, as well as untold millions in hotel tax dollars that the attorney general says Airbnb has been costing the state every year. Also at stake is a discrete little economy, populated by New Yorkers who make a substantial portion of their income by renting out apartments on a short-term basis through the website, sometimes legally and sometimes not.
在这场纷争当中，有一大笔钱的归属悬而未决，包括Airbnb的总收入，以及难以计数的酒店房租税。这位检察长说，Airbnb每年都令该州损失了这样一笔税金。同样处于风口浪尖的，还有一种分散型的小规模经济，其主体是那些通过在该网站时而合法、时而不合法地短期出租公寓，赚取大部分收入的纽约人。
“Last year we made about $90,000 from this business,” said Leslie, who rents out two rooms in her two-family house in Brooklyn through Airbnb.
“去年，我们从这笔生意中赚了大约9万美元（约合人民币54.84万元），”莱斯利(Leslie)说。她通过Airbnb出租了自己在布鲁克林一栋两家共用式住宅(two-family house)中的两个房间。
Leslie, a stay-at-home mother who is married to a teacher, agreed to speak only if her address and last name were withheld. So did Joe, who said his “dedicated Airbnb room,” which brings in about $2,000 per month that he splits with his two roommates, allowed him to start a small technology company. And P., a musician who rents out two apartments in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn.
莱斯利是一位居家母亲，嫁给了一名教师。仅在不公布她的住址和姓氏的情况下才同意发言。乔也是如此，他说自己“贡献出来作Airbnb用的房间”，每个月可以带来2000美元（约合人民币12180元）的收入。他和两位室友平分这笔钱，这些收入让他开起了一家小的科技公司。还有P.，一位在曼哈顿出租了两套公寓，并在布鲁克林也出租了一套的音乐家。
One man, however, declined to be identified by his extremely common first name, by his profession or even by the state in which he lives. Instead he described himself as “one of the people they really want to get.” He operates empty New York City apartments as short-term rentals, none of which he lives in, a practice he called “beyond lucrative.” It also happens to generally be illegal.
但有一个人拒绝透露自己的身份，他既不愿意公布自己极为普通的名字，也不愿意告知他的职业、甚至不愿说出自己所住的州名。不过，他把自己描述为“他们很想逮到的那类人中的一个。”他在纽约市经营着几套空闲的公寓，作为短期出租房使用。他不住在其中任何一套公寓中，这是一桩被他称为“极其有利可图”的买卖。当然，一般来说也是不合法的。
In most residential apartment buildings, renting out your space for less than 30 days is illegal, unless you are present when you have that visitor. The restriction does not apply to single- or two-family homes, like Leslie’s, but zoning laws may still limit the practice. Leases and building bylaws may also forbid it.
在大多数住宅公寓楼中，只要你出租房子的时间不超过30天，都属非法，除非房客入住期间你也在场。这条限制不针对独栋房屋或两家共用式房屋，比如莱斯利的家；但地区法规可能仍然对此有所限制。在租赁条款和公寓楼规章里可能也会禁止这一做法。
Still, even those whose rental side business might surmount legal hurdles were skittish about being identified. Sometimes they did not want their neighbors to know. But they were also worried that the state might choose to make an example of them. Mr. Schneiderman has subpoenaed Airbnb for transaction information on many of its New York users, and the company is fighting to keep the information private.
不过，即使有些人的租赁副业可能跨越了法律障碍，他们对表明身份也依然感到紧张不安。有时候，他们不想让自己的邻居知道。他们还担心州政府可能会把他们挑选出来，列为典型。施奈德曼已经给Airbnb发了传票，要求公布该网站众多纽约用户的交易信息；但这家公司正在争取让信息保持隐私状态。
According to the attorney general’s office, based on information given to it by Airbnb, the top 40 Airbnb hosts in New York have each grossed at least $400,000 over the past three years, a collective total of over $35 million. The top 100 hosts in that time period have grossed $54 million.
根据检察长办公室的消息，从Airbnb呈交的信息来看，在该网站排名前40位的房东之中，每一位在过去三年的总收入都至少有40万美元（约合人民币243万元），合计超过3500万美元（约合人民币2.13亿元）。而前100位房东同期的总收入为5400万美元（约合人民币3.29亿元）。
“We began this process in the hopes of collaborating with Airbnb to recover millions of dollars in unpaid taxes and to stop the abuse of Airbnb’s site by operators of illegal hotels,” Matt Mittenthal, a spokesman for Mr. Schneiderman, said in an email. “Airbnb isn’t standing up for average New Yorkers who rent out their apartments from time to time — Airbnb is standing up for highly profitable, illegal businesses that make up a huge chunk of its corporate revenue.”
“我们开始进行这项工作，是希望与Airbnb合作，来弥补数百万美元的未付税款，并禁止非法酒店的经营者滥用Airbnb网站，”施耐德曼的发言人马特·米滕塔尔(Matt Mittenthal)在一封邮件中说，“Airbnb并不是那些偶尔出租自己公寓的普通纽约人的支持平台——它所支持的是高利润的非法经营项目，那才是该公司营业收入的主要来源。”
Some building management companies have begun clampdowns of their own. One of them, TF Cornerstone, recently sent a letter to all of its rental tenants saying that subletting their apartments short-term on websites “creates an overall security risk” and also violates their lease. Another company, Dermer Management, reminded residents in some of its condo buildings that though Super Bowl weekend might seem like a great time to rent out their apartments for extra cash, the buildings’ sublet policy forbids it.
一些物业管理公司已经开始各自下达禁令。其中一家名为TF Cornerstone的公司最近给所有租客寄了一封信，信中说，在网站上短期转租他们的公寓“造成了整体的安全风险”，并且也违反了他们的租约。另一家公司Dermer Management提醒了一些分户式产权公寓的住户，虽然举办橄榄球超级杯大赛(Super Bowl)的那个周末可能是出租公寓、赚取额外收入的大好机会，但是这些物业的转租政策禁止人们这样做。
But Airbnb and its hosts say that they serve an important economic function in the city, helping travelers on a budget visit a place so expensive it might otherwise be out of reach, and that they bring those tourists to areas where they might not otherwise go.
但是，Airbnb和该网站上的房东们说，他们在这座城市中发挥了一项重要的经济职能——让预算有限的旅行者可以游览一个原本贵得可能令他们去不起的地方；而且他们把旅行者领进了一些他们原本可能不会去的地方。
“It’s important to remember that almost 90 percent of our hosts have only one listing and it’s the home they live in,” said David Hantman, head of global public policy for Airbnb. “They have asked for a lot of data on regular New Yorkers, and we don’t want to turn it over.”
“重要的是，请记得我们大约90%的房东只有一处房源，也就是他们的住宅，”Airbnb全球公共利益政策主管大卫·汉特曼(David Hantman)说，“他们要求我们提供普通纽约人的大量数据，但我们不想披露它们。”
Ms. Robertson, who began renting out space in her apartment when an illness resulted in high medical bills in a difficult economy, said she had guests only when she was at home. And both she and Leslie, the stay-at-home mother in Brooklyn, said they had declared all of the money they had earned on Airbnb as income.
罗伯逊在经济困顿又因病欠下高额医疗费用的情况下，开始出租自己公寓中的房间。她说，只有当自己在家的时候，她才会找来一些房客。她和那位住在布鲁克林的全职母亲莱斯利都说，自己已经把通过Airbnb赚到的所有钱都算进收入申报了。
“Show me the law, and I’ll follow it,” said Leslie, who is in the process of hiring an expediter to help her navigate zoning restrictions against the practice. “When I ask five different lawyers what the law actually means, I get five different answers.”
“请告诉我有哪些相关法律，我一定会严格遵守，”莱斯利说，她正打算聘请一位稽查员来帮助自己避开这项操作中的区域限制。“当我找到5位不同的律师，询问这条法律到底是什么意思的时候，我会得到5个不同的答案。”
But as several hosts pointed out, letting a stranger use your shower is not for everybody, and there are those who will always prefer to stay in a hotel.
但是，正如几位房东指出的一样，让一个陌生人使用你的淋浴，这种做法并不适合每个人，有些人总归还是喜欢住在酒店里。
“This spring, my own family was in town looking at colleges and they refused to stay here — they stayed in a hotel,” said Susan, who owns a small consulting business and rents out a room in her co-op apartment. “There are people who want complete privacy and room service, and they’re willing to pay for that. It doesn’t matter how many good reviews I have, my family’s not staying here.”
“今年春天，我自己的家人到纽约来看学校，但他们都拒绝住在我这——他们住进了酒店，”苏珊(Susan)说，她经营着一家小型咨询公司，还出租了自己分户式产权公寓中的一个房间。“有些人需要完全的个人隐私以及客房服务，他们愿意为此付钱。不管我有多少个好评，我的家人就是不愿意住在这里。”
She still finds plenty of takers, though. She said the rental income from that one room made up about half of her income.
不过，她还是找到了许多愿意入住的人。她说，从那个房间获得的租金收入，大约占她全部收入的一半。