LIMA, Peru — From his office window, Henrik Kristensen, the chief executive of the company that runs Peru’s main port, can still look out at rows of newly arrived, shiny Kia automobiles from South Korea and shipping containers stacked four high, full of imported items like television sets and brand-name clothing bound for the growing number of malls that serve this country’s burgeoning middle class.
秘鲁利马——亨里克·克里斯滕森(Henrik Kristensen)所在的公司经营着秘鲁的主要港口。作为公司首席执行官的他，从办公室往窗外望去，仍能看到一排排刚从韩国运来的锃亮的起亚(Kia)轿车，以及堆了四层的货运集装箱，里面装满了电视机和名牌服装等进口商品，等待被运往日益增多的商场，而它们服务的对象是秘鲁迅速发展的中产阶级。
“This is Peru,” he said. “When you go to the shopping malls they’re full of people, they’re full. That’s a good indicator that people are really spending money.”
“这里是秘鲁，”他说。“去商场看看，到处是人，都是满的。这是个好迹象，表明人们的确在花钱。”
Peru’s economy grew an average of 6.4 percent a year from 2002-12 after adjusting for inflation, according to government figures, a remarkable period of sustained expansion that has made it one of the world’s star economies.
根据秘鲁官方的数据，2002年到2012年间，剔除通胀影响后的秘鲁年均经济增长率为6.4%。这段不凡的持续增长让该国跻身于世界经济的明星之列。
But suddenly growth has slowed here, and just beyond the view from Mr. Kristensen’s window, under Lima’s perpetually gray winter sky, the reason becomes clear.
但在突然之间，秘鲁经济放缓。就在克里斯滕森的视野之外，利马永远灰暗的冬季天空之下，背后的原因得以显现。
At Dock 5B, ships are loaded with Peru’s mining riches, including copper ore, lead and zinc — the raw materials that fueled the Peruvian boom with their rising prices in recent years. But in the first six months of this year, mineral shipments through the port were down 12 percent by weight, according to APM Terminals, Mr. Kristensen’s company, which operates the facility for the Peruvian government.
在5B码头，一艘艘货船装载的是秘鲁的铜矿石、铅和锌等矿藏。随着这些原材料的价格近年来节节攀升，秘鲁的经济繁荣获得了动力。但是，根据克里斯滕森所在的马士基集装箱码头公司(APM Terminals)的测算，今年前六个月，经由利马港的矿石货运量按重量计算下降了12%。该公司受秘鲁政府委托，经营利马港。
The decrease resulted from a drop in demand in a struggling world economy and a slowdown in China, one of Peru’s top trading partners. Those factors have also caused mineral prices to plummet, sucking the wind from the sails of Peru’s economy.
下降的原因是全球经济不振造成的需求下降，以及秘鲁主要的贸易伙伴中国的经济放缓。这些因素导致矿石价格猛跌，从而让秘鲁经济丧失了动力。
This bust amid the boom has given vent to a national angst, with hand-wringing over the economy a mainstay of newspaper front pages and television news programs. Headlines bemoan soaring trade imbalances as the value of mining and other exports, including apparel and agricultural products, plunges at the same time imports are surging.
经济繁荣的突然终结成为了全民情绪发泄的出口，对经济的不满充斥着报章头条和电视新闻节目。新闻头条纷纷哀叹，随着矿石、纺织品和农产品等出口商品的价值猛跌，与此同时进口又激增，贸易不平衡的程度骤然加深。
Miguel Castilla, the economy and finance minister, said he expected the economy to grow between 5.5 percent and 6 percent this year. While that was down from earlier predictions, it would maintain Peru’s place as one of the fastest-growing economies in Latin America. Even some of the most skeptical economists predict Peru’s economy will grow by nearly 5 percent this year, a rate that would be celebrated as a ripping success in many countries.
秘鲁经济与财政部长米格尔·卡斯蒂利亚(Miguel Castilla)表示，他预计今年的经济增长率在5.5%到6%之间。尽管低于早前的预测，这仍将使秘鲁保持在拉丁美洲发展最快的经济体之列。就连某些最具怀疑态度的经济学者也预测，秘鲁今年的经济增长将接近5%。在许多国家，这一数字足以被当作特大成就来庆祝了。
But in Peru, such predictions are being treated as something close to disaster.
但在秘鲁，这样的预测几乎被视为灾难。
“Growing for a decade at 6 percent, you get used to it,” said Gustavo Yamada, the dean of economics at the University of the Pacific in Lima. Mr. Yamada said he expected growth in Peru to settle into a range of about 4 percent to 5 percent in coming years.
利马太平洋大学(University of the Pacific)经济学院的院长古斯塔沃·山田(Gustavo Yamada)称，“10年6%的增长，人们都习惯了。”他还表示，自己预计秘鲁未来数年的增长将落在大约4%到5%的区间。
“That creates a scenario,” he said, “of, ‘Hey, wait a minute, we were going to be the next Inca tiger, what a disappointment.’ ”
“这会构成一种情况，人们会说，‘喂，等一下，我们不是即将成为下一只印加虎吗？现在也太令人失望了，’”他说。
Polls show that consumer confidence has slipped this year, and a Peru Central Bank survey in June showed that investor confidence was at its lowest point in almost two years.
调查数据显示，今年的消费者信心有所下滑。秘鲁中央银行(Peru Central Bank)今年6月的调查则表明，投资者信心处于近两年来的最低点。
“We have become used to a sustained period of growth, and we have forgotten about cycles,” said Mr. Castilla, the economic minister.
经济部长卡斯蒂利亚说，“我们已经习惯了持续增长期，忘记了经济周期。”
Just as outside factors, like rising metals prices, fueled Peru’s boom, similar factors, like the slow recovery in the United States, Europe’s economic woes and China’s slowdown, are now causing it to cool down, he said.
他还表示，正如金属价格上升等外因促成了秘鲁的经济繁荣，类似的因素也在导致秘鲁经济冷却下来。这些因素包括，美国复苏缓慢、欧洲经济不振，以及中国经济放缓。
Peru’s economy is a mash-up of strengths and weaknesses. The country has robust international reserves, a large rainy day fund that can be used for economic stimulus in a crisis, and low public debt.
秘鲁经济的长处与短处并存。该国拥有强劲的外汇储备、较少的国债，以及一个大型应急基金，以备危机来临时用于经济刺激计划。
Poverty in Peru has been cut by more than half in recent years, falling from 59 percent of the population in 2004 to 26 percent last year, according to government figures. Millions have moved into the middle class, which the Inter-American Development Bank estimates has doubled in size from 2007-12 and now includes about half of all Peruvian families.
政府数据显示，近年来，秘鲁已经消除了一半以上的贫困人口，贫困人口比例从2004年的59%下降到去年的26%。数百万人已步入中产阶级。美洲开发银行(Inter-American Development Bank)预计，该国的中产阶级规模在2007年到2012年间翻了一倍，现在秘鲁所有家庭中有一半左右属于中产阶级。
But the new prosperity is unevenly distributed, concentrated in the cities and along the coast. More than half of those in rural areas still live in poverty, especially in the Andes and the Amazon basin. Lima also remains home to vast slums.
但是，这种新繁荣的分配并不均衡，集中在城市和沿海地区。农村人口中还有半数以上生活在贫困中，尤其是在安第斯山脉和亚马孙盆地地区。利马也依然有着大量贫民窟。
Peru’s economy is heavily dependent on mining. The nation is the world’s third-largest producer of copper and silver and the sixth-largest producer of gold, according to the United States Geological Survey. And despite talks of diversification, President Ollanta Humala is pinning his hopes for sustained growth on mining.
秘鲁经济严重依赖采矿业。根据美国地质调查局(United States Geological Survey)排名，秘鲁是世界上第三大铜、银产地，以及第六大黄金产地。虽然总统奥良塔·乌马拉(Ollanta Humala)说要多样化，但他的希望却寄托在矿业的持续增长上。
Several new copper mines are scheduled to begin producing over the next few years, which could double the country’s output. But gold mining, which accounts for a large share of the value of mine exports, has declined as mines have become tapped out, and protests have stalled a major new gold-mining project, known as Conga, in the Cajamarca region.
未来几年，将有几座新铜矿投产，这将会让秘鲁的产出增加一倍。但是，占矿产出口比重很大一部分的采金业却因为矿源枯竭而萎缩。而在卡哈马卡地区，人们的抗议导致一座新的大型金矿，也就是孔加金矿停产。
The total volume of Peru’s mineral exports in the first half of this year was about equal to that of the same period in 2012, but because of lower prices, their value fell by more than 15 percent, according to the Exporters Association, a trade group in Peru.
根据秘鲁贸易组织出口商协会(Exporters Association)的统计数据，今年上半年的秘鲁矿产出口总量与2012年同期持平，但由于价格较低，出口额却下降了15%以上。
Carlos González, an economist with the Exporters Association, said Peru’s economic deceleration was being overdramatized, but he added that Peru would have to work harder to maintain growth and to attract investors as outside conditions changed.
出口商协会的经济师卡洛斯·冈萨雷斯(Carlos González)称，秘鲁的经济放缓被过分夸大，但是他补充说，随着外部条件的变化，秘鲁必须更加努力，才能维持增长速度和吸引投资者。
“We were the prettiest girl in the neighborhood who could get the best boyfriend,” he said. “It seems we’ve passed that moment.”
他说，“以前我们一直是附近最漂亮的姑娘，能得到最好的男朋友。现在似乎已经时过境迁。”