The likelihood of a school-aged American child receiving a diagnosis of autism, Asperger syndrome or a related developmental disorder increased 72 percent in 2011-12 from 2007, according to an analysis of a phone survey of parents released Wednesday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Health Resources and Services Administration.
根据美国疾病预防和控制中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）及美国卫生资源和服务管理局(Health Resources and Services Administration)在周三发布的一项对家长电话调查的分析，从2007年至2011-12年度，美国学龄儿童诊断出自闭症、阿斯伯格综合症(Asperger syndrome)或相关发育障碍的可能性上升了72%。
According to experts not involved in the report, the increase coincided with a period of soaring awareness of autism spectrum disorders among clinicians and schools, as well as parents.
未参与该研究的专家们称，这一患病率的增加与临床医生、学校及家长对自闭症谱系障碍的认识发生飞速增长的时间段相一致。
The report emphasized that while the numbers changed from 1 in 86 children, ages 6 to 17, having received a diagnosis in a 2007 parent survey, to 1 in 50 children in the current report, most of the increase was because of previously undiagnosed cases.
该报告强调，虽然具体的患病率从2007年家长调查中的每86名6-17岁儿童中一例增加至当前报告中的每50名儿童中一例，但这一增幅中的绝大部分是由于既往漏诊的病例所导致。
“Our findings suggest that the increase in prevalence is due to improved recognition of autism spectrum disorders,” said Stephen J. Blumberg, a senior scientist with the centers’ National Center for Health Statistics and the lead author of the study, “as opposed to children with newly developed risks for them.”
疾控中心国家健康统计中心(National Center for Health Statistics)的资深科学家、该研究的主要作者史蒂芬·J·布隆伯格(Stephen J. Blumberg)表示：“我们的研究结果表明，自闭症谱系障碍患病率的增加是由于人们改善了对该疾病的认识，而并非是因为儿童中存在新发疾病风险。”
Parents in the newer survey who reported that their children had received a diagnosis between 2008 and 2012 were far more likely to report that the diagnosis had been characterized as “mild” than parents who received the diagnosis earlier.
在这项近期的调查中，与2008-2012年之前就已确诊的儿童的家长相比，在此时间段内诊断为自闭症的儿童的家长报告其子女的诊断结果为“轻度疾病”的可能性要大得多。
“We in the field don’t have a standard set of definitions about what is mild and severe yet,” said Dr. Susan L. Hyman, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Rochester Medical Center. “Yet this survey allows parents to determine whether they see their child as mild or severe.”
“在实际应用中，我们尚不具备定义病情轻重的一整套标准，”罗切斯特大学(University of Rochester)医学中心的儿科学教授苏珊·L·海曼(Susan L. Hyman)博士指出：“但这项调查让家长们自行判断子女的病情轻重程度。”
In keeping with earlier studies about autism spectrum disorders, the new report reflected gender disparities. In the new study, 1 in 31 boys had received a diagnosis, up from 1 in 56 boys in 2007. By contrast, 1 in 143 girls received a diagnosis, according to the latest report; in 2007, 1 in 204 girls received a diagnosis.
与关于自闭症谱系障碍的早期研究相一致，这一新的研究报告也反映了性别差异。在这项新研究中，男孩的患病率从2007年的每56人中一例诊断增加至现在的每31人中一例诊断。相比之下，女孩在2007年的患病率为每204人中一例诊断；而根据最近的报告，现在每143人中有一例诊断。
The rise in diagnoses was also generally greater among 14- to 17-year-olds, underscoring the likelihood that these were previously unrecognized cases.
在14-17岁的年轻人中，该疾病的诊断也普遍有所增加。这个发现强调了以下可能性：上述增幅其实是既往的漏诊病例。
Nonetheless, with parents describing 1 in 50 children as having significant social or other challenges, the new data “tells us the real numbers of children needing help to experience social and academic success,” said Deborah A. Fein, a co-author of a forthcoming study in Pediatrics about a widely used screening tool for autism in toddlers. “We need to find ways of funding and providing help to these children,” Dr. Fein, a professor of psychology at the University of Connecticut, said in an e-mail.
然而，基于参与该调查的家长的叙述，在50名儿童中就有一人在社交或其他方面存在明显的困难。这一新数据“为我们指出了需要在社交和学术成功的经验方面获得帮助的儿童的实际数量，”德博拉·A·费恩(Deborah A. Fein)指出，她作为共同作者参与了关于一种广泛使用的幼儿自闭症筛查工具的研究，且该研究即将发表于《儿科学》杂志(Pediatrics)上。康涅狄格大学的心理学教授费恩博士也在一封电子邮件中写道：“我们需要设法募集资金，并为这些儿童提供帮助”。
Experts also reacted cautiously to the new report because of its methodology, in which researchers randomly dialed landlines and cellphone numbers, interviewing parents.
出于方法学原因，专家们对该报告的反应也较为谨慎。这项新研究所采用的调查方法为，由研究人员随机拨打固定电话和手机号码，并对家长进行访谈。
By contrast, a study released last year by the C.D.C.’s Autism and Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network looked directly at school behavioral assessments and clinical reports of children who were 8 years old in 2008 and applied a standard checklist of criteria for the diagnoses. While that study found a 78 percent increase in autism spectrum disorders from 2002 to 2008, it said the likelihood of a child receiving such a diagnosis was 1 in 88.
与此相反，去年由CDC的自闭症和发育障碍监测网络发布的一项研究则是直接调查了2008年时8岁儿童的在校行为评估和临床报告，并采用了标准化的诊断标准清单。虽然该研究发现，从2002年至2008年，自闭症谱系障碍的患病率上升了78%，但它同时也显示，儿童确诊该疾病的可能性为1:88。 
Because the methodologies were so different, as well as the age range of the children themselves, it was difficult, experts said, to draw conclusions about prevalence or diagnoses, not least because clinicians themselves use different assessment tools. A diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder can change as a child grows older.
由于研究方法以及研究所涉及儿童的年龄范围存在如此巨大的差异，尤其是临床医生们使用了不同的评估工具，专家们表示难以就患病率或疾病诊断得出结论。而且，随着儿童逐渐长大，自闭症谱系障碍的诊断也可能发生变化。
Dr. Catherine Lord, director for the Center for Autism and Developing Brain at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell and Columbia, who was not involved in the C.D.C. study, said, “We can’t dismiss this report, but we can’t interpret it to mean that more people have a diagnosis. It means that more families are thinking of this as a possibility and maybe more professionals are bringing it up.”
并未参与这项CDC研究的纽约长老会医院/威尔康奈尔医学院(New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell)和哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)自闭症和脑发育研究中心主任凯瑟琳·洛德(Catherine Lord)博士表示：“我们不能完全摒弃这项报告，但也不能简单地将其解读为有更多的人确诊患有该疾病。它意味着越来越多的家庭已经考虑到了该疾病的可能性，且这一趋势可能日益受到更多专业人士的认识。”