Researchers at Johns Hopkins University said they found levels of arsenic in chicken that exceeded amounts that occur naturally, and warned that they could lead to a small increase in the risk of cancer for consumers over a lifetime.
约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)的研究人员称，他们发现鸡肉中的砷含量超过了自然累积量，并警告说，这可能会导致消费者的终生癌症风险出现小幅增加。
The levels were well below danger levels set in federal safety standards, though the researchers pointed out that those were first established in the 1940s. And the chicken samples tested were from 2010 and 2011, before sales of the drug that researchers say was a major driver of the elevated arsenic levels, roxarsone, were suspended.
虽然该水平仍远低于联邦安全标准中的危险水平，但研究人员也指出，这些标准最早在20世纪40年代订立，到现在时日已久。本次接受测试的鸡肉样本取材于2010年和2011年，也就是洛克沙胂(roxarsone)的销售被叫停之前。而研究人员认为，该药物是造成砷含量升高的主要驱动力。
A spokeswoman for the chicken industry said the levels found by researchers were low, but the researchers contend that the elevated levels are important because the Food and Drug Administration has not banned the drug, and it is still being sold abroad.
养鸡业的一位女发言人称，研究人员所发现的砷含量其实很低。而研究人员表示砷含量的升高具有重要的意义，因为美国食品和药品管理局(F.D.A.)尚未明令禁止该药物，它仍继续被销往国外。
The issue of arsenic in food has drawn public attention since research last year by Consumer Reports found substantial arsenic levels in rice. Arsenic residue in rice often comes from water used in farming.
自从去年《消费者报告》(Consumer Reports)进行的研究发现大米中的砷含量大幅上升后，食品中砷的问题已经引起了公众的关注。大米中的砷残留往往来自农业灌溉用水。
Keeve Nachman, a scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future and the chicken study’s main author, acknowledged that the levels of inorganic arsenic in chicken were far lower than those found in rice, but said that any deliberate additive amounted to a public health risk. Roxarsone, and a chemically similar drug, nitarsone, remain the last federally approved uses of arsenic in food production, he said.
约翰·霍普金斯大学宜居未来研究中心(Center for a Livable Future)的科学家基夫·纳赫曼(Keeve Nachman)是这一关于鸡肉的研究的主要作者，他承认鸡肉中的无机砷含量远远低于其在大米中的含量，但他表示，任何刻意使用的添加剂都可能给公众健康带来风险。他补充道，洛克沙胂及与其化学性质相似的药物硝苯砷酸是联邦政府批准可用于食品生产的最后两种含砷物质。
Roxarsone, known by its brand name 3-Nitro, kills intestinal parasites, promotes growth and makes meat look pinker. It contains organic arsenic, which is far less toxic than its inorganic counterpart. For decades, it was believed that animals simply excreted organic arsenic. But evidence is emerging that it may also be converted into its carcinogenic cousin in the body of the chicken.
从洛克沙胂的商品名就可以看出，它含有3-硝基。这种化合物可以杀死肠道寄生虫，促进生长，并使肉质的色泽更为红润。它含有机砷，毒性远远低于无机砷。数十年来，人们一直认为动物可将有机砷排出体外。但越来越多的证据表明，在鸡体内，有机砷也可能转换为具有致癌性的无机砷。
The study, which measured inorganic arsenic levels in chicken, found roxarsone in about half the samples. The researchers said they tested meat samples that were gathered from December 2010 to June 2011 — before the sale of roxarsone was suspended — because they wanted to examine whether the drug led to increased levels of inorganic arsenic.
这项研究测定了鸡肉中的无机砷含量，并在约一半的样本中检出了洛克沙胂。研究人员称，他们所测试的肉类样本收集于2010年12月至2011年6月之间，即洛克沙胂的销售被叫停之前，这是因为他们想要查明是否是该药物导致了无机砷含量的增加。
A spokeswoman for the company that sells the drug, Zoetis, said sales in the United States “remain suspended pending the ongoing evaluation of relevant scientific data regarding the use of this product in poultry.” She said that the company no longer manufactures the drug, and that it is selling down remaining stock in markets that still permit it, all of them in Latin America.
销售该药物的硕腾(Zoetis)公司的女发言人表示，“在对有关在禽类中使用该产品的科学数据进行评估期间，美国将继续暂停其销售。”她还说，公司已经不再生产该药物，并将剩余存货外销给仍许可其出售的市场（均位于拉丁美洲）。
A spokesman for the F.D.A. said in an e-mail that the company “has assured FDA that it will not begin marketing the drug again in the United States without first consulting with the agency.”
食品和药品管理局的发言人在一封电子邮件中称，该公司已经向食品和药品管理局保证，在向本机构咨询之前，不会在美国再次开始销售该药物。
The study, to be published on Saturday in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives, tested 140 samples of chicken from grocery stores in 10 American cities. It found that chicken contained inorganic arsenic at the level of about two parts per billion. Organic chicken was also tested. It contained about half a part per billion. Federal standards allow anything below 500 parts per billion of total arsenic.
这项将在周六发表于《环境与健康展望杂志》(Enviornmental Health Perspectives)的研究测试了来自10 个美国城市的副食品商店中的140份鸡肉样本。研究发现，鸡肉中的无机砷含量约为十亿分之二(2ppb)。研究对有机鸡肉也进行了测试，结果为0.5ppb。而联邦标准的许可值为总砷含量低于500ppb。
The study estimated that the exposure could cause an additional 124 deaths in the country annually from lung and bladder cancer, if the drug were fed to all chickens.
研究估计，如果所有的鸡饲料中均添加了该药物，所造成的砷暴露将导致美国每年因肺癌和膀胱癌死亡的人数增加124人。
The National Chicken Council said the findings reflected “very low levels of arsenic,” and were not worrisome.
全美养鸡理事会(National Chicken Council)表示，调查结果反映出“砷含量非常低”，根本无需担忧。
“These samples, taken as part of this extremely small, agenda-driven study, were purchased before roxarsone was removed from the market in June 2011, and the conclusions are used to intentionally mislead consumers,” said Ashley Peterson, vice president of scientific and regulatory affairs at the National Chicken Council.
“这项小样本量、议程驱动的研究使用的是2011年6月洛克沙胂撤出市场前购买的样本。研究人员在使用该结论刻意地误导消费者，”全美养鸡理事会科学和管理事务委员会副主席阿什利·彼得森(Ashley Peterson)如是说。
Sale of the drug was suspended in 2011 after the F.D.A. released a report finding inorganic arsenic in chicken livers, but the agency did not ban roxarsone. In that report, the agency said, “any new animal drug that contributes to the overall inorganic arsenic burden is of potential concern.” Consumer advocates contended the drug should be banned.
在食品和药品管理局发布报告称在鸡肝中发现无机砷之后，洛克沙胂的销售在2011年被叫停，但并未被列为禁药。在上述报告中，食品和药品管理局指出，“任何可能造成总无机砷负担的新兽药都可能存在问题。”消费者权益保护组织主张应明令禁止该药物。