The incidence of advanced breast cancer among younger women, ages 25 to 39, may have increased slightly over the last three decades, according to a study released Tuesday.
据周二发布的一项研究表明，在过去的30年里，就25岁-39岁的年轻女性而言，晚期乳腺癌的发病率呈略微增长趋势。
But more research is needed to verify the finding, which was based on an analysis of statistics, the study’s authors said. They do not know what may have caused the apparent increase.
但该研究报告的作者表示，这一发现是建立在统计数据分析之上的，还需要更多研究予以确认。他们并不清楚是什么导致了这一明显的增长趋势。
Some outside experts questioned whether the increase was real, and expressed concerns that the report would frighten women needlessly.
一些外界专家质疑这种增长的真实性，并担心该报告会对女性造成不必要的担忧。
The study, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, found that advanced cases climbed to 2.9 per 100,000 younger women in 2009, from 1.53 per 100,000 women in 1976 — an increase of 1.37 cases per 100,000 women in 34 years. The totals were about 250 such cases per year in the mid-1970s, and more than 800 per year in 2009.
发表在《美国医学协会杂志》(The Journal of the American Medical Association)上的这份报告表示，平均每10万名年轻女性中的晚期病例人数从1976年的1.53人上升到2009年的2.9人——34年来，每10万名女性中的病例人数增加了1.37人。在20世纪70年代中期，每年晚期癌症确诊人数约为250人，而到2009年，这一数字已超过800人。
Though small, the increase was statistically significant, and the researchers said it was worrisome because it involved cancer that had already spread to organs like the liver or lungs by the time it was diagnosed, which greatly diminishes the odds of survival.
虽然人数很少，但这种增长却拥有统计学意义。研究人员表示，这种情况令人担忧，因为在确诊时，癌症早已转移到了肝或肺等器官，而这将会大大降低患者的生存率。
For now, the only advice the researchers can offer to young women is to see a doctor quickly if they notice lumps, pain or other changes in the breast, and not to assume that they cannot have breast cancer because they are young and healthy, or have no family history of the disease.
就目前而言，研究人员向年轻女性所能提供的唯一建议就是在发现乳房肿块、疼痛或其他变化时及早去看医生，而不能因为年轻、健康或无家族病史就认为自己不可能患乳腺癌。
“Breast cancer can and does occur in younger women,” said Dr. Rebecca H. Johnson, the first author of the study and medical director of the adolescent and young adult oncology program at Seattle Children’s Hospital.
“年轻女性可能而且也确实会患乳腺癌，”该研究的第一作者、西雅图儿童医院(Seattle Children’s Hospital) 青少年与年轻成人肿瘤项目的医疗主任丽贝卡·H·约翰逊(Rebecca H. Johnson)医生说。
But Dr. Johnson noted that there is no evidence that screening helps younger women who have an average risk for the disease and no symptoms. “We’re certainly not advocating that young women get mammography at an earlier age than is generally specified,” she said.
但约翰逊医生也指出，没有证据表明乳腺癌筛查可以帮助那些具有一般患病风险且毫无病征的年轻女性。“我们肯定不主张年轻女性在通常的指定年龄前过早接受钼靶X线检查，”她说。
Expert groups differ about when screening should begin; some say at age 40, others 50.
对于从何时开始筛查，专家组有着不同的意见；有的说是从40岁，而有的说是从50岁。
Breast cancer is not common in younger women; only 1.8 percent of all cases are diagnosed in women from 20 to 34, and 10 percent in women from 35 to 44. However, when it does occur, the disease tends to be more deadly in younger women than in older ones. Researchers are not sure why.
乳腺癌在年轻女性群体中并不多见；在所有病例中，20岁-34岁年龄段患者的比例仅占1.8%，35岁-44岁年龄段患者的比例为10%。然而，一旦病发，相对于年长女性而言，乳腺癌对年轻女性的威胁更为致命。但研究人员并不清楚个中原因。
The researchers analyzed data from SEER, a program run by the National Cancer Institute to collect cancer statistics on 28 percent of the population of the United States. The study also used data from the past when SEER was smaller.
研究人员对SEER项目（Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results，流行病学监测及预后）的数据进行了分析。SEER是美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)运营的一个项目，负责收集全美国28%人口的癌症统计数据。该研究也使用了早期SEER监测规模较小时的数据。
The study is based on information from 936,497 women who had breast cancer from 1976 to 2009. Of those, 53,502 were 25 to 39 years old, including 3,438 who had advanced breast cancer, also called metastatic or distant disease.
这一研究是以1976年-2009年的936497名女性乳腺癌患者的信息为基础的。在这些人中，有53502名患者的年龄在25岁-39岁之间，其中包括3438名晚期乳腺癌患者。晚期乳腺癌又被称为转移或远处转移疾病。
Younger women were the only ones in whom metastatic disease seemed to have increased, the researchers found.
研究人员发现，年轻女性可能是转移疾病发病率呈上升趋势的唯一群体。
Dr. Archie Bleyer, a clinical research professor in radiation medicine at the Knight Cancer Institute at the Oregon Health and Science University in Portland who helped write the study, said scientists needed to verify the increase in advanced breast cancer in young women in the United States and find out whether it is occurring in other developed Western countries. “This is the first report of this kind,” he said, adding that researchers had already asked colleagues in Canada to analyze data there.
阿尔奇·布莱耶(Archie Bleyer)医生是放射医学的临床研究教授，任职于波特兰俄勒冈健康与科学大学(Oregon Health and Science University)的奈特癌症研究所(Knight Cancer Institute) 。他帮助撰写了这份研究报告。他表示，科学家需要对美国年轻女性晚期乳腺癌的增长情况进行确认，并弄清其他西方发达国家是否也存在类似的情况。“这是关于该方面问题的首份报告，”他指出，并表示研究人员已经请求加拿大的同事进行当地的数据分析。
“We need this to be sure ourselves about this potentially concerning, almost alarming trend,” Dr. Bleyer said. “Then and only then are we really worried about what is the cause, because we’ve got to be sure it’s real.”
“我们需要确定这种潜在的担忧，这可以说是一个令人恐惧的趋势，”布莱耶医生说，“那时，且只能到那时，我们才会真正担心这背后的原因，因为我们已经确定这种情况是真实存在的。”
Dr. Johnson said her own experience led her to look into the statistics on the disease in young women. She had breast cancer when she was 27; she is now 44. Over the years, friends and colleagues often referred young women with the disease to her for advice.
约翰逊医生表示，正是她自己的经历促使她去查阅有关年轻女性患该病的统计数据。她在27岁时得了乳腺癌；而今，她已经44岁。这些年来，朋友和同事经常向她引荐一些罹患此病的年轻女性，以向她寻求建议。
“It just struck me how many of those people there were,” she said.
“让我感到吃惊的是，患病的人非常多，”她说。
Dr. Donald A. Berry, an expert on breast cancer data and a professor of biostatistics at the University of Texas’ M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, said he was dubious about the finding, even though it was statistically significant, because the size of the apparent increase was so small — 1.37 cases per 100,000 women, over the course of 30 years.
唐纳德·A·贝里(Donald A. Berry)医生是乳腺癌数据专家、生物统计学教授，任职于休斯顿得克萨斯大学(University of Texas)的MD安德森癌症中心(M. D. Anderson Cancer Center)。他表示自己对这一发现持怀疑态度，虽然拥有统计学意义，但这种明显增长的规模太小了——30年间，每10万名女性中的病例数仅增加了1.37人。
More screening and more precise tests to identify the stage of cancer at the time of diagnosis might account for the increase, he said.
他说，越来越多的癌症筛查以及在鉴别癌症分期时越来越精确的检查，或许可以解释这种增长。
“Not many women aged 25 to 39 get screened, but some do, but it only takes a few to account for a notable increase from one in 100,000,” Dr. Berry said.
“就25岁039岁的女性来说，进行癌症筛查的并不是很多，但的确有人做，而只要有少数人做，就可以解释这种十万分之一的增长。”贝里医生说。
Dr. Silvia C. Formenti, a breast cancer expert and the chairwoman of radiation oncology at New York University Langone Medical Center, questioned the study in part because although it found an increased incidence of advanced disease, it did not find the accompanying increase in deaths that would be expected.
乳腺癌专家、纽约大学朗格尼医疗中心(NYU Langone Medical Center)放射肿瘤科主任西尔维亚·C·弗蒙提(Silvia C. Formenti)医生也对该研究提出质疑，而原因之一就是晚期乳腺癌的发病率虽然有所上升，但预期死亡率并没有出现同步增长。
A spokeswoman for an advocacy group for young women with breast cancer, Young Survival Coalition, said the organization also wondered whether improved diagnostic and staging tests might explain all or part of the increase.
年轻女性乳腺癌患者支持团体“青年生存同盟会”(Young Survival Coalition)的发言人表示，该组织也怀疑改进的诊断技术和分期检查或许可以完全或部分地解释这种增长。
“We’re looking at this data with caution,” said the spokeswoman, Michelle Esser. “We don’t want to invite panic or alarm.”
“我们对这一数据持审慎态度，”该组织的发言人米歇尔·埃塞尔(Michelle Esser)说，“我们不想引起恐慌或恐惧。”
She said it was important to note that the findings applied only to women who had metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis, and did not imply that women who already had early-stage cancer faced an increased risk of advanced disease.
她表示，需要重点指出的是，该发现仅适用于那些在诊断时已处于癌症晚期的女性，这并不意味着早期癌症患者会面临更高的重病风险。
Dr. J. Leonard Lichtenfeld , deputy chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, said he and an epidemiologist for the society thought the increase was real.
美国癌症学会(American Cancer Society)副首席医疗官J·伦纳德·里奇菲尔德(J. Leonard Lichtenfeld)医生表示，他和该学会的一位流行病学家认为这种增长是真实存在的。
“We want to make sure this is not oversold or that people suddenly get very frightened that we have a huge problem,” Dr. Lichtenfeld said. “We don’t. But we are concerned that over time, we might have a more serious problem than we have today.”
“我们要搞清楚这是否言过其实，否则人们就会因一个巨大问题而突然陷入恐慌，”里奇菲尔德医生说，“我们不想这样，但我们担心的是，随着时间的推移，我们可能会面临一个比现在更为严重的问题。”