BEIJING — High blood pressure and obesity are becoming increasingly common in China, contributing to an epidemic of cardiovascular disease that will probably worsen over the next two decades, according to a study published on Monday.
北京——周一发表的一篇论文显示，高血压和肥胖症在中国变得越来越普遍，导致心血管疾病的流行。文章还表示，在接下来的二十年里，中国心血管疾病的发病情况很可能还会恶化。
The study, by Harvard researchers, suggested that changes in lifestyle brought on by China’s fast-paced economic growth over the past three decades had contributed to a sharp rise in cardiovascular diseases, such as heart attacks and strokes.
由哈佛大学的研究人员进行的这项研究显示，过去三十年里，中国经济快速增长，由此带来的生活方式上的变化是心肌梗死和脑卒中等心血管疾病发病率急剧上升的原因之一。
In 1979, for example, when the Chinese government began opening up its economy, roughly 8 percent of Chinese adults had high blood pressure. By 2010, the rate had increased to 34 percent.
比如，在中国政府刚开始开放经济的1979年，中国只有约8%的成年人患有高血压。到2010年，这一比例上升至34%。
“China is facing a rising epidemic of cardiovascular disease, and it shows no sign of abating,” Frank Hu, a professor of nutrition and epidemiology at the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, said in a statement.
“中国正面临心血管疾病越来越普遍的情况，并且没有表现出缓解的迹象，”哈佛大学陈曾熙公共卫生学院(T.H. Chan School of Public Health)营养学与流行病学教授胡丙长(Frank Hu)在声明中表示。
China’s embrace of Western foods, like red meat and soda, has exacerbated the problem, the researchers found. Fast-food restaurants are wildly popular in many provinces, and obesity is a growing problem, especially among rural children.
研究人员发现，中国对红肉和汽水等西方食品的欣然接纳导致问题加剧。快餐店在中国很多省份大受欢迎，肥胖症的问题也日益严重，特别是在农村孩子当中。
Decreasing levels of physical activity were also a significant factor, the study found, as more Chinese families have moved to cities from the countryside. Smoking is also widespread, despite efforts by the government to discourage the habit. More than half of Chinese men still smoke.
研究发现，随着从乡村迁至城镇的中国家庭增加，体力活动水平降低也是一个重要因素。此外，为了打击吸烟的习惯，政府采取了多项措施。尽管如此，吸烟现象仍很普遍。中国依然有超过一半的男性是烟民。
Cardiovascular illnesses are now the leading cause of death in China. In 2011, 44 percent of the deaths of people over age 35 were the result of cardiovascular disease, the Harvard researchers found.
心血管疾病目前是中国的第一大死因。哈佛大学的研究人员发现，在2011年，35岁以上的死者中，44%死于心血管疾病。
The study, published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, was based on data from 26,000 people in nine Chinese provinces from 1991 to 2011. The findings were consistent with other studies warning of worsening rates of cardiovascular illness in China, even as living standards have improved.
这篇论文发表在美国心脏病学会杂志》(Journal of the American College of Cardiology)上，依据的数据来自中国九个省份的2.6万人，采集工作始于1991年，结束于2011年。这项研究的结果与其他一些研究相符。这些研究告诫人们，虽然生活水平得到改善，但中国的心血管疾病发病率在持续攀升。