In a scientific triumph that will change the way the world fights a killer, an experimental Ebola vaccine tested on humans in the waning days of the West African epidemic has been shown to provide 100 percent protection against the lethal disease.
在西非埃博拉疫情减弱的时期，一种实验中的埃博拉病毒疫苗经过人体测试，已被证明可对这种致命疾病产生100%的免疫效果。这是一场科学的胜利，将改变世界打击这种致命疾病的方式。
The vaccine has not yet been approved by any regulatory authority, but it is considered so effective that an emergency stockpile of 300,000 doses has been created for use should an outbreak flare up again.
该疫苗尚未得到任何监管机构的批准，但它被认为非常有效，目前已建立30万剂的应急储备，以便在疫情再次爆发时投入使用。
Since Ebola was discovered in the former Zaire in 1976, there have been many efforts to create a vaccine. All began with a sense of urgency but then petered out for lack of money. Although only about 1,600 people died of Ebola over those years, the grotesque nature of their deaths has lent the disease a frightening reputation.
自从1976年埃博拉病毒在前扎伊尔被发现以来，人们为研制疫苗进行了大量努力。所有项目最早都颇具紧迫感，但后来因为缺乏资金无果而终。虽然那些年里只有大约1600人死于埃博拉病毒，但他们死亡时的恐怖情形为这种疾病带来了可怕的名声。
Ultimately, only the explosive 2014 outbreak that took 11,000 lives in Africa and spread overseas, killing a handful of people in Europe and the United States, provided the political and economic drive to make an effective vaccine.
最终，2014年的疫情爆发令非洲的11000人丧生，并且传播到海外，在欧洲和美国令数人丧生，这才为研制有效疫苗提供了政治与经济动力。
The test results of the trial in Guinea were released Thursday in The Lancet.
周四，《柳叶刀》(The Lancet)公布了在几内亚的实验结果。
The vaccine was not ready in time to stop the outbreak, which probably began in a hollow, bat-filled tree in Guinea and swept Liberia and Guinea before being defeated. But the prospect of a vaccine stockpile has brought optimism among public health experts.
此次疫情爆发可能始于几内亚一棵住满蝙蝠的空心树，横扫利比里与几内亚后才被击退，当时疫苗尚未准备就绪，未能及时阻止疫情爆发。但是疫苗储备的前景令公共卫生专家感到乐观。
The vaccine opens up new, faster, more efficient ways to encircle and strangle the virus. .
疫苗开辟了全新的方式，可以更快、更有效地包围并扼杀病毒。
The new vaccine has some flaws, experts said. It appears to work against only one of the two most common strains of the Ebola virus, and it may not give long-lasting protection. Some of those who get it report side effects like joint pain and headaches.
专家说，新疫苗有一些缺陷。它似乎只能对抗埃博拉病毒的两种最常见的菌株之一，并且可能无法提供长期保护。有些注射疫苗者报告了副作用，如关节疼痛和头痛。
The Lancet study was done in 11,841 residents of Guinea last year. Among the 5,837 people who got the vaccine, none came down with Ebola 10 or more days later. There were 23 Ebola cases among the thousands of others not immediately vaccinated.
去年，这个发表在《柳叶刀》上的项目在几内亚的11841名居民中进行了研究。在接受疫苗的5837人中，10天乃至更长时间内没有人感染埃博拉病毒。在其余数千名没有立即接种疫苗的人当中，有23人感染埃博拉病毒。