NEW DELHI — Her first child survived eight months before succumbing to pneumonia; her second was stillborn; her third, delivered in a rickshaw, gasped for an hour before dying.
新德里——她的第一个孩子在被肺炎夺去生命之前，只存活了8个月；她的第二个孩子是死胎；她的第三个孩子在人力车里出生，喘息一小时后就死亡了。
When she got pregnant for a fourth time, Juhi, a woman from a South Delhi slum who uses only one name, was spotted by a local health worker and taken to a mobile clinic. A doctor diagnosed severe anemia, gave her iron pills and begged her to eat more.
当她第四次怀孕时，这位来自南德里贫民窟、名叫朱希(Juhi)的女子——她的名字只有一节——被当地的一名卫生工作者发现，并被带到了一个流动诊所。医生诊断后发现她患有严重贫血，给她开了补铁的药品，并劝告她多吃点东西。
Juhi listened, and gave birth to a boy, Muhammad Sultan, who has survived his first birthday — a huge milestone in a country with about one-sixth of the world’s population but one-third of all newborn deaths.
朱希听了医生的话，诞下一名男婴，给他取名穆罕默德·苏丹(Muhammad Sultan)。这个男孩成功度过了自己的第一个生日——在这个人口占世界六分之一，但新生儿死亡数却占世界三分之一的国家，这是个重大的里程碑。
“My in-laws were telling me they would get my husband married to someone else, because I couldn’t have a healthy baby,” Juhi, 26, said in an interview. “That’s why we left our village. But now my mother-in-law is happy with me.”
“我的婆家人告诉我，他们要让我丈夫娶别人，因为我生不出健康的宝宝，”26岁的朱希在接受采访时说。“这就是我们离开村子的原因。但是现在，我的婆婆对我很满意。”
The poor health of children in India, even after decades of robust economic growth, is one of the world’s most perplexing public health questions.
尽管数十年来，印度经济增长势头强劲，但是印度儿童的健康状况仍然十分糟糕，这已经成为世界上最令人困惑的公共卫生问题之一。
A child raised in India is far more likely to be malnourished than one from the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe or Somalia, the world’s poorest countries. Poor sanitation and a growing tide of drug-resistant infections also affect nutrition.
与在刚果民主共和国、津巴布韦或索马里等世界最穷国长大的孩子相比，在印度长大的孩子出现营养不良的可能性更大。恶劣的卫生条件和越来越多的耐药传染病也会影响营养。
But an important factor is the relatively poor health of young Indian women. More than 90 percent of adolescent Indian girls are anemic, a crucial measure of poor nutrition. And while researchers have long known that Indian mothers tend to be less healthy than their African counterparts, a new study published Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences demonstrates that the disparity is far worse than previously believed.
但其中一个重要因素，就是印度年轻女性相对较差的健康状况。超过90%的印度青春期少女患有贫血，这是衡量营养不良的一个重要标准。尽管研究人员早就知道，印度母亲的健康状况往往比非洲母亲更差，周一发表在《美国国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上的一项新研究却表明，差距比人们以前认识到的程度要严重许多。
By analyzing census data, Diane Coffey of Princeton University found that 42 percent of Indian mothers are underweight. The figure for sub-Saharan Africa is 16.5 percent.
通过分析人口普查数据，普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)的戴安娜·科菲(Diane Coffey)发现，42%的印度母亲都体重不足，撒哈拉以南非洲地区的比例则为16.5%。
Indeed, Ms. Coffey calculated that the average woman in India weighs less at the end of her pregnancy than the average woman in sub-Saharan Africa did at the beginning, an astonishing finding.
的确，根据科菲计算，印度女性在怀孕末期的体重，平均比撒哈拉以南非洲地区的女性在怀孕初期的体重还轻，这个发现令人震惊。
“In India, people are richer, better educated and have fewer children than those in sub-Saharan Africa, so it’s really surprising that Indian children are shorter and smaller than those in sub-Saharan Africa,” Ms. Coffey said in an interview. “But when you step back and look at the state of Indian mothers, it’s not such a surprise after all.”
“印度人更加富裕，受教育程度也比较高，生的孩子也比那些撒哈拉以南非洲的人少，所以发现印度孩子比撒哈拉以南非洲的孩子更矮、更小，真的很令人惊讶，”科菲在采访中表示。“但是，如果你退后一步，看看印度母亲的状态，就会发现这个结果其实并不奇怪。”
Research has shown that genetics play no role in the size differences, leaving environmental factors as the only explanation, Ms. Coffey said.
科菲说，研究表明，遗传对体型的大小没有任何影响，所以环境因素就成了唯一的解释。
The reasons for Indian mothers’ relatively poor health are many, including a culture that discriminates against them. Sex differences in education, employment outside the home, and infant mortality are all greater in India than in Africa.
印度母亲相对较差的健康状况有诸多原因，其中之一就是她们在印度文化中受到歧视。教育、在家庭之外就业，以及婴儿死亡率等方面，印度的性别差异都比非洲要大。
“In India, young newly married women are at the bottom of household hierarchies,” Ms. Coffey said. “So at the same time that Indian women become pregnant, they are often expected to keep quiet, work hard and eat little.”
“在印度，年轻的新婚女性总是处于家庭结构的底端，”科菲说。“因此，当印度女性怀孕时，人们通常希望她们能保持沉默、努力干活、少吃一点。”
Mothers also suffer from the same sewage-borne infections that so often kill their babies, made endemic by the primitive sanitation in much of the country, Ms. Coffey said.
科菲表示，母亲们也会罹患通过污水传播的疾病，她们的孩子经常死于这些疾病。这种疾病广为传播的原因是印度大部分地区的卫生条件非常原始。
“It is likely that infectious disease is responsible for a signification portion of India’s pre-pregnancy underweight problem,” she said.
她说，“传染病很可能是印度女性孕前体重过轻的一个重要因素。”
Dr. Shella Duggal, Juhi’s doctor at the mobile clinic, said that almost every pregnant woman she treats in her visits to Delhi’s slums is severely anemic. Parasites, spread by poor sanitation and dirty water, are a crucial reason, she said.
朱希在流动诊所的医生谢拉·杜加尔(Shella Duggal)说，她在探访德里贫民窟时接诊的每个怀孕女性，几乎都患有严重的贫血。她说，通过糟糕的卫生条件和脏水传播的寄生虫是一个重要原因。
“So the first thing we do is deworm them and give them iron supplements,” Dr. Duggal said. “And then I tell them to eat.”
“所以我们做的第一件事就是为她们驱虫，并给他们补充铁元素，”杜加尔说。“然后，我告诉她们要吃东西。”
It is a prescription many of her patients find difficult to carry out, she said.
她说，她的很多病人都觉得这个药方难以实施。
“These mothers are the last persons in their families to have food,” Dr. Duggal said. “First, she feeds the husband and then the kids, and only then will she eat the leftovers.”
“这些母亲是家庭中最后享用食物的人，”杜加尔说。“首先，她要给丈夫吃饭，然后是孩子，然后才轮到自己吃点剩菜剩饭。”