SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean scientists have learned to produce crucial components of gas centrifuges inside their isolated country, undermining years of export controls and sanctions intended to stop the country’s enrichment of uranium for nuclear weapons, according to an analysis by two American arms control experts made available on Monday.
韩国首尔——根据美国两名军备控制专家周一提供的分析报告，朝鲜的科学家已经学会在这个孤立的国家制造气体离心机的关键部件，削弱了旨在阻止朝鲜为制造核武器而进行铀浓缩的多年出口管制及制裁举措的成效。
The analysis comes as experts have reported other signs that North Korea is activating or expanding its nuclear production facilities. Taken together, they suggest a new effort by the North to master all the facets of the nuclear production cycle — or perhaps to give the impression of nuclear progress that would drive new offers of talks or economic aid, in the view of some analysts.
分析报告发表时，专家报告称有其他迹象表明朝鲜正在启动或扩建核生产设施。一些分析人士认为，综合来看，这些情况说明朝鲜采取了新的举措，以便掌握核生产流程各个方面的技术，也有可能，朝鲜这是在制造核计划有所进展的假象，以便促使相关方面提议谈判或提供经济援助。
The new study focuses on production of advanced centrifuges, a technically difficult feat that the United States and others have tried to make harder for the North with a network of sanctions and bans on the export of sophisticated parts and metals. If the North Koreans are successfully making their own parts, they would essentially invalidate much of the international strategy to force them to denuclearize and make it more difficult to monitor their production progress.
新研究主要关注先进离心机的制造，美国及其他国家一直在采取制裁举措，并且禁止向朝鲜出口复杂部件及金属，目的是使朝鲜难以掌握这项难度较高的技术。如果朝鲜人自己成功地制造了部件，实际上就挫败了国际社会迫使朝鲜停止生产核武器的大部分策略，并且使国际社会更难监控其生产进程。
“That means, unfortunately, that we won’t be in a good position to spot them expanding the program through foreign shopping expeditions, and that policies based on export controls, sanctions and interdiction won’t get much traction, either,” said Joshua Pollack, one of the experts presenting the findings this week. “The deeper implication, if they are able to expand the program unchecked, is that we’ll never be too confident that we know where all the centrifuges are. And that in turn could put a verifiable denuclearization deal out of reach.”
“遗憾的是，这意味着我们难以通过朝鲜的进口情况来探知其扩张核计划的举措，出口管控、制裁及封锁政策也不会收到很大成效，”乔舒亚·波拉克(Joshua Pollack)说。“既然他们能够在不受限制的情况下发展核计划，这还具有更深的含义，那就是我们绝不能过于自信，以为我们知道所有离心机的位置。进一步说，这会使可核查的无核化协议变得遥不可及。”波拉克是本周介绍前述研究结果的专家之一。
Mr. Pollack’s findings in collaboration with Scott Kemp, an expert on centrifuge technology at M.I.T., will be presented on Wednesday during a conference organized by the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul.
首尔峨山政策研究院(Asan Institute for Policy Studies)将于本周三组织会议，介绍波拉克与麻省理工学院(MIT)离心机技术专家斯科特·肯普(Scott Kemp)共同发现的结果。
Mr. Pollack said he and Dr. Kemp had analyzed such open-source data as scientific journals, news reports and propaganda from North Korea to find evidence that the country is learning — or has already learned — how to make such crucial centrifuge components and related technologies and materials as uranium hexafluoride, vacuum pumps, frequency inverters, magnetic top bearings and maraging steel. He said that domestic production appeared to have begun no later than 2009.
波拉克和肯普博士分析了科技期刊、新闻报道及朝鲜宣传材料等公开资料，以便发现相关证据，证明朝鲜正在学习——或已经学会——离心机关键部件的制造技术和相关技术，以及制造六氟化铀、真空泵、变频器、磁性盖轴承和马氏体时效钢等材料的技术。他表示，朝鲜似乎在2009年之前即已开始自行制造相关设备。
North Korea shocked the United States in 2010 when its officials escorted a visiting American nuclear expert, Siegfried S. Hecker of Stanford University, to their main nuclear complex in Yongbyon, north of Pyongyang. There, they showed him a modern plant that they said housed 2,000 gas centrifuges, a technology that North Korea said it would use to enrich uranium for reactors but that American officials feared was a cover for making highly enriched uranium for atomic bomb fuel. Until then, the North’s sole source of weapons fuel had been plutonium gleaned from the waste of a mothballed nuclear reactor in Yongbyon.
2010年，朝鲜官员陪同到访的美国核专家——斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的西格夫里·S·赫克(Siegfried S. Hecker)——前往朝鲜的主要核设施，此举让美国感到震惊。这个设施位于平壤北部的宁边，他们在此向赫克展示了一个现代工厂，并称那里有2000台气体离心机。朝鲜称他们将利用该技术生产用于反应堆的浓缩铀，美国官员则担心这是为生产用于原子弹燃料的高浓缩铀作掩护。直到那时，朝鲜唯一的武器燃料来源仍是从宁边一个封存核反应堆的废弃物当中提取的钚。
Then, this April, at the height of tensions incited by the North’s nuclear test in February, the country declared that it would “adjust and alter the use of the existing nuclear facilities” for “bolstering up the nuclear armed force both in quality and quantity.” It said that included immediately restarting the Yongbyon facilities.
今年4月，也就是朝鲜2月份的核试验致使局势高度紧张的时候，朝鲜宣称，该国将“调整和改变现存核设施的用途”，以“提高核武力的质量和数量”。朝鲜称，这些举措包括立即重启宁边的核设施。
Last month, the Institute for Science and International Security in Washington cited satellite images to report that North Korea appears to have doubled the size of the building that housed the uranium enrichment plant in Yongbyon in recent months, and raising concerns that its enrichment capability would grow along with it.
上个月，华盛顿科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)依据卫星图像报称，最近几个月，朝鲜似乎已经将宁边铀浓缩厂所在建筑的规模扩大了一倍，致使人们担心，其铀浓缩能力会随着建筑规模的扩大而不断提高。
This month, another monitoring group, the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University, cited satellite photographs showing steam emerging from the Yongbyon reactor, suggesting that the North was following through on its vow to resume plutonium production.
本月，另一个监察组织约翰斯·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)的美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute)指出，卫星图片显示宁边反应堆有蒸汽冒出，表明朝鲜正在兑现恢复钚生产的誓言。
South Korean officials declined to comment on the American scholars’ findings or on the North’s centrifuge capabilities in general.
韩国官员不愿评价美国学者的研究发现或朝鲜的离心机能力。
Kang Jung-min, a nuclear scientist at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology who said he was familiar with the work by Dr. Kemp and Mr. Pollack, said he agreed with their analysis. Mr. Hecker, the Stanford professor, said he agreed for the most part with the analysis, though he said it was still unclear whether North Korea can indigenously produce the high-strength grades of maraging steel used in the rotor-tube of a centrifuge — one of the most difficult steps in centrifuge production.
韩国科学技术院(Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology)核科学家康中珉（Kang Jung-min，音译）说，他对肯普和波拉克的工作很熟悉，而且同意他们的分析。斯坦福大学教授赫克则说他同意分析的大部分内容，同时表示，目前尚不清楚朝鲜是否能自行生产用于离心机旋转管的高强度马氏体钢——这是离心机生产最困难的步骤之一。
“Having said that, if North Korea does indeed double the size of its Yongbyon centrifuge plant (all we know so far is that the roof is now expanded by a factor of two), then the likelihood of indigenous fabrication of maraging steel has increased,” Mr. Hecker said in an e-mail interview.
赫克在电子邮件采访中说，“即便如此，如果朝鲜确实将宁边离心机工厂的规模扩大了一倍（我们目前了解的情况只是，屋顶扩大了一倍），那么朝鲜自行生产马氏体钢的可能性就会增加。”
Since Mr. Hecker’s visit to Yongbyon in 2010, he and other experts have said that North Korea was likely to have produced and hidden many more centrifuges elsewhere in the country. Unlike the North’s old plutonium program, which involved a highly visible nuclear reactor, centrifuge plants are relatively easy to hide, they say.
自赫克于2010年到访宁边以来，他和其他专家都曾表示，朝鲜很可能生产了更多的离心机，并把它们藏在了朝鲜其他地方。他们说，朝鲜原来的钚项目带有非常容易发现的核反应堆，离心机工厂则与之不同，相对易于隐藏。
In 2011, the mass-circulation daily Chosun Ilbo of South Korea quoted an anonymous defector from North Korea as saying that the country had been building centrifuges in Huichon, an industrial town about 35 miles northeast of Yongbyon, since the late 1990s. He said the North had imported the motors for centrifuges from such countries as Japan, France and Russia.
2011年，韩国发行量很大的报刊《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)援引一名匿名脱北者的话说，自20世纪90年代末以来，朝鲜一直在熙川修建离心机工厂。熙川是一座工业城镇，位于宁边东南方向35英里（约合65公里）处。此人还说，朝鲜从日本、法国和俄罗斯等国引进了用于离心机的马达。
How to ensure that North Korea does not lie about the scale of its nuclear weapons program was a central dispute behind the collapse of six-nation talks aimed at ending the North’s nuclear weapons programs in late 2008. That dispute will be harder to settle if the North can produce centrifuges indigenously.
2008年末，旨在结束朝鲜核武项目的六方会谈最终谈崩，核心的争议之一就是如何确保朝鲜在其核武项目规模的问题上不会说谎。如果朝鲜能够自行制造离心机，这个争议将更加难以解决。
North Korea and its main ally, China, have recently tried to reconvene the six-nation talks. But the United States and its allies have said they will resume the talks only if the North agrees to eventually give up its nuclear arsenal.
近来，朝鲜及其主要盟友中国都曾尝试恢复六方会谈。但是，美国及其盟友表示，只有在朝鲜同意最终放弃核武库的前提下，他们才愿意恢复六方会谈。
As evidence to back up their analysis, Mr. Pollack and Mr. Kemp cited photographs of Kim Jong-il, the North Korean leader who died in 2011, and his son and the current leader, Kim Jong-un, visiting underground tunnels to inspect increasingly sophisticated machine tools of the kind needed to make centrifuge rotors. They also cited accounts of iron- and steelmaking technologies in North Korean publications, as well as scientific reports and patent awards that they said described work on centrifuge production.
为了佐证自己的分析，波拉克和肯普拿出了一些照片，照片显示，于2011年过世的朝鲜领导人金正日(Kim Jong-il)和他的儿子、朝鲜目前的领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)正在地下隧道视察日益精密的机床。这些机床就是用来制造离心机转子的。他们还引述了朝鲜出版物中关于钢铁制造技术的说明，以及一些科学报告和专利授权书的内容（他们称这些内容描述了离心机的生产过程）。
Mr. Pollack said that domestic production of centrifuge components might explain why American officials were caught off guard when the North unveiled its centrifuge plant in Yongbyon in 2010 and why North Koreans seem to have been able to expand the plant lately despite few indications of shipments of specialty steel and other imports from the outside in recent years.
波拉克表示，朝鲜能够自行制造离心机组件的事实，或许可以解释，朝鲜于2010年公开的宁边离心机工厂为何能让美国官方大吃一惊，还可以解释，朝鲜虽然近年来很少从国外进口特殊钢材及其他原料，最近为何还是表现出了扩大工厂规模的迹象。
“The most likely answer is, by producing the necessary components and materials at home,” he said.
他说，“可能性最大的答案就是，朝鲜在国内生产必要的组件和材料。”