For the first time, researchers have shown that reducing air pollution leads to improved respiratory function in children ages 11 to 15, a critical period of lung development.
11至15岁是肺部发育的关键时期，如今，研究人员第一次证明，减少空气污染可改善该年龄段青少年的呼吸功能。
Scientists have long known that air pollution is linked to smaller lung capacity and compromised breathing in children. But it had not been clear whether, and to what extent, a reduction in air pollution over the years might prevent these problems.
科学家们早就知道，空气污染与青少年肺活量较小和呼吸功能损害有关。然而，长期减轻空气污染能否以及能在何种程度上预防这些问题，此前尚没有明确的答案。
Environmentalists have maintained that federal emission standards are not stringent enough to safeguard health, while some conservatives criticize the regulations as overly restrictive and expensive. The new study, conducted in Southern California and published on Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, provides evidence that better air quality, a result of stricter regulation, improved health among children, experts said.
环保人士宣称，联邦政府规定的排放标准不够严格，不足以保障公众健康，而一些保守派人士则批评相关规定过于严格且代价高昂。周三，《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上发表了一项在南加州大学(Southern California)进行的新研究，专家称，该研究提供的证据表明，更严格的监管提高了空气质量，青少年的健康状况也随之改善。
Morton Lippmann, a professor of environmental medicine at New York University School of Medicine, said the research would be influential and predicted that within the next few years, when federal emission standards are due for review, “this kind of information will play a major role.”
纽约大学医学院(New York University School of Medicine)的环境医学教授莫顿·李普曼(Morton Lippmann)表示，这项研究具有一定的影响力，并预测，在未来几年内，联邦排放标准到期并接受复审时，“此类信息将发挥重大的作用。”
“It provides confirmation that the work we’ve done to improve air pollution has made a difference in kids’ health,” said Dr. Joel Kaufman, a physician and epidemiologist at the University of Washington, who was not involved in the research. “There are more kids comfortable running around.”
“它证实了我们此前控制空气污染的诸多工作确实有效地改善了青少年健康，”未参与该研究的华盛顿大学(University of Washington)的医生和流行病学家乔尔·考夫曼(Joel Kaufman)博士说。“有更多的孩子可以轻松地到处跑着玩了。”
Over 17 years, researchers at the University of Southern California studied air pollution levels as they declined in five regional communities. The scientists also measured breathing capacity in 2,120 schoolchildren from the communities during three periods: 1994-1998, 1997-2001 and 2007-2011.
南加州大学的研究人员选取了五个社区，并研究了17年期间这些地区持续下降的空气污染水平。科学家们还分三个时间段（1994-1998年，1997-2001年和2007-2011年）分别测定了这些社区中2120名学龄儿童的肺活量。
The communities included the port city of Long Beach, Calif., as well as the inland city of Mira Loma, Calif., where mountains trap pollution blown eastward from the coast and downwind from agricultural production.
这些社区里有港口城市，如加利福尼亚州的长滩市，也有内陆城市，如加利福尼亚州的米拉洛玛市。该地区位于农业生产区的下风处，而且，由于受到山脉的阻挡，从海岸向东吹来的污染物也被截留在此地。
During those years, federal and state emission standards lowered the billowing output of California’s automobiles, diesel trucks, refineries, ships and trains. By the study’s conclusion in 2011, fine particulates had fallen by 50 percent and nitrogen dioxide levels by 35 percent in the communities, changes that were representative of declining pollution across the Los Angeles basin.
在研究期间，受联邦政府和加州自身排放标准的管制，该州汽车、柴油卡车、炼油厂、轮船和火车的烟尘排放量都有所降低。2011年研究作结之前，这些社区空气中的细颗粒物减少了50%，二氧化氮含量下降了35%，这些变化代表整个洛杉矶盆地的空气污染水平在普遍下降。
The children studied were in a period of pubertal growth during which lungs almost finish developing. Using a device called a spirometer, the children exhaled into a tube that measured both how much air they could breathe out in one second and how much air they could blow out completely.
研究选取的受试青少年正处于青春期，在此期间，人的肺部发育基本完成。研究人员使用名为肺量计(spirometer)的装置，让那些青少年朝管子里呼气，并以此测定了他们的第一秒用力呼气量和肺活量。
The second measure, capacity, is often used as a surrogate to describe the size of the lungs themselves.
其中的第二项，也就是肺活量，经常被当做肺部大小的替代性指标。
As emission standards tightened and the air became cleaner, the scientists found that lung development in children born in later years was more robust than in those born earlier. Moreover, the percentage of children with significantly impaired lung function declined during the study period, from 8 percent to 3.5 percent.
科学家们发现，随着排放标准更加严格，空气变得更干净，较晚出生的青少年的肺部发育要优于较早出生的同龄人群。此外，在研究期间，肺功能明显受损的儿童的比例从8%下降到了3.5%。
In 2011, the third wave of 15-year-olds was assessed. Over the four years the children were tested, the growth in their lung capacity had been about 10 percent greater than that of the 15-year-olds measured in 1998. The positive effects were observed in boys and girls, and regardless of race and ethnicity.
2011年，研究人员对第三批15岁青少年进行了评估。在接受检测的四年中，他们肺活量的增长幅度比1998年的那批15岁青少年要高出约10%。这些积极效果在男孩和女孩中都可以观察到，且与种族和民族无关。
The average teenager running around a soccer field might not notice an appreciable difference, said W. James Gauderman, a professor of preventive medicine at the University of Southern California and the lead author of the Children’s Health Study, from which the data was drawn.
上述数据出自《少儿健康研究》(Children’s Health Study)。其主要作者，南加州大学的预防医学教授W·詹姆斯·高德曼(W. James Gauderman)表示，经常在足球场上跑来跑去的普通青少年可能不会感觉到明显的变化。
The larger implication, he said, was that the latest group of children may have a jump-start on longevity compared with children who grew up breathing more polluted air. Absent factors such as smoking or asthma, normal lung function slowly begins to decrease in early adulthood.
但更大的意义在于，他补充道，与在空气污染较严重的环境中长大的青少年相比，最后一批青少年在寿命的起跑线上具有优势。在排除了吸烟、哮喘等因素后，正常肺功能从成年早期就会开始慢慢衰退。
“When they’re done with the teenage years, they’re stuck with the lungs they have for the rest of their lives,” Dr. Gauderman said.
高德曼博士指出：“人在十几岁时肺部完成发育，此后一生就只能依靠这一对肺脏。”
Studies have shown that adults exposed to high levels of air pollution are more susceptible to premature death from pulmonary and cardiovascular disease.
研究显示，暴露于高水平空气污染中的成年人更容易因肺部和心血管疾病过早死亡。
Dr. Kaufman speculated that a 10 percent improvement in lung function might translate into a five- or six-year delay in the onset of clinical lung disease, although such results could only be determined years from now.
考夫曼博士推测，肺功能改善10%，意味着临床肺部疾病的发作可能将推迟五或六年——不过，实际结果如何只能靠今后继续研究才能确定。
During the years of the study, ozone levels declined only modestly. Although ozone has been associated with acute health problems, such as asthma attacks, Dr. Gauderman and his colleagues concluded that its reduction does not have the long-term effects on overall lung function that fine particulates and nitrogen dioxide do.
在这些年的研究期间，臭氧水平仅略有下降。虽然有研究表明，臭氧与急性健康问题，如哮喘发作相关，但高德曼博士及其同事们的结论是，就肺部总体功能而言，臭氧的减少不具备细颗粒物和二氧化氮那样的长期影响。
This study adds to a growing body of research that addresses not only the deleterious effects of air pollution on health, but restorative possibilities when pollution is reduced, including lowered mortality risk of lung cancer and cardiovascular disease.
包括该研究在内，有越来越多的研究显示，空气污染不利于健康，而减少污染则可能逆转这些不良影响，例如降低因肺癌和心血管疾病死亡的风险等。
“Some have argued that the substantial improvements in air quality over the past 40 years are sufficient to protect public health and that there is little evidence to support more stringent standards,” noted Douglas W. Dockery, a professor of environmental epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in an editorial accompanying the new study. “However, the current report and other studies suggest that further improvement in air quality may have beneficial public health effects.”
“有些人认为，过去40年来空气质量的显著改善已经足以保护公众健康，且罕有证据支持执行更严格的标准，”哈佛大学公共卫生学院(Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health)的环境流行病学教授道格拉斯·W·多克里(Douglas W. Dockery)在随该新研究刊发的社论中指出。“然而，该报告和其他研究表明，进一步改善空气质量将更有利于公众健康。”
Diane Katz, a research fellow in regulatory policy at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy organization, said it was good news that air pollution was reduced and children’s lung function had improved. But, she added, “The study doesn’t say anything about regulation. We don’t know what would have happened if we had had less burdensome regulation,” or whether automobile technology or other sources of emission controls alone “would have been just as effective.”
美国保守派政策组织美国传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)的管制性政策(regulatory policy)研究员黛安娜·卡茨(Diane Katz)说，空气污染减少，青少年肺功能改善，这些都是好消息。然而，她补充说，“这项研究并没有说明任何与监管有关的问题。我们不清楚如果减轻监管负担会有什么影响”，也不知道如果单靠改进汽车技术或控制其他排放来源是否“也会同样有效”。