For thousands of years, coffee has been one of the two or three most popular beverages on earth. But it’s only recently that scientists are figuring out that the drink has notable health benefits. In one large-scale epidemiological study from last year, researchers primarily at the National Cancer Institute parsed health information from more than 400,000 volunteers, ages 50 to 71, who were free of major diseases at the study’s start in 1995. By 2008, more than 50,000 of the participants had died. But men who reported drinking two or three cups of coffee a day were 10 percent less likely to have died than those who didn’t drink coffee, while women drinking the same amount had 13 percent less risk of dying during the study. It’s not clear exactly what coffee had to do with their longevity, but the correlation is striking.
成百上千年来，咖啡一直是地球上最流行的两三种饮料中的一种。但直至近期，科学家才渐渐发现这种饮料拥有引人注目的健康效益。在一项去年发表的大规模流行病学研究中，主要来自美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)的研究人员分析了40多万名年龄在50-71岁的志愿者的健康信息，在研究起始的1995年，这些志愿者都没有患大病。到了2008年，其中有5万多人去世。但自称每天喝两三杯咖啡的男性，相比完全不喝咖啡的男性，死亡风险低了10%，而喝同样份量咖啡的女性在研究期间死亡的风险低了13%。研究者无法确切得知咖啡对被访者的长寿产生了何种作用，但这种关联确实是惊人的。 
Other recent studies have linked moderate coffee drinking — the equivalent of three or four 5-ounce cups of coffee a day or a single venti-size Starbucks — with more specific advantages: a reduction in the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes, basal cell carcinoma (the most common skin cancer), prostate cancer, oral cancer and breast cancer recurrence.
还有些近期的研究则发现，适量饮用咖啡——每天喝三四杯咖啡，每杯为5盎司（约140克），也即是一杯星巴克的特大杯(venti)咖啡——可带来更加明确的益处：减少患II型糖尿病、基底细胞癌（最常见的皮肤癌）、前列腺癌、口腔癌和乳腺癌复发风险。
Perhaps most consequential, animal experiments show that caffeine may reshape the biochemical environment inside our brains in ways that could stave off dementia. In a 2012 experiment at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, mice were briefly starved of oxygen, causing them to lose the ability to form memories. Half of the mice received a dose of caffeine that was the equivalent of several cups of coffee. After they were reoxygenated, the caffeinated mice regained their ability to form new memories 33 percent faster than the uncaffeinated. Close examination of the animals’ brain tissue showed that the caffeine disrupted the action of adenosine, a substance inside cells that usually provides energy, but can become destructive if it leaks out when the cells are injured or under stress. The escaped adenosine can jump-start a biochemical cascade leading to inflammation, which can disrupt the function of neurons, and potentially contribute to neurodegeneration or, in other words, dementia.
而最重要的发现是：动物试验显示咖啡因或许可以改造我们大脑中的生化环境，防止痴呆症的发生。2012年，伊利诺伊大学厄巴纳-香槟分校(University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)进行了一项试验，试验小鼠暂时处于缺氧环境中，因此丧失了形成记忆的能力。其中半数小鼠随后服用了一剂相当于几杯咖啡量的咖啡因。在重新吸到氧气后，服用了咖啡因的小鼠恢复形成新记忆的速度比没有服用的小鼠快了33%。检查小鼠的脑组织可以发现，咖啡因破坏了腺苷的活动，这种存在于细胞内的物质通常可以供给能量，但细胞受损或应激时释放出来时，则可带来破坏性的后果。逃逸的腺苷能启动一组生化剧变，引发炎症，而这会破坏神经元功能，因此可能导致神经退行性疾病，也即是痴呆症。
In a 2012 study of humans, researchers from the University of South Florida and the University of Miami tested the blood levels of caffeine in older adults with mild cognitive impairment, or the first glimmer of serious forgetfulness, a common precursor of Alzheimer’s disease, and then re-evaluated them two to four years later. Participants with little or no caffeine circulating in their bloodstreams were far more likely to have progressed to full-blown Alzheimer’s than those whose blood indicated they’d had about three cups’ worth of caffeine.
在2012年的一项人体试验中，来自南佛罗里达大学(University of South Florida)和迈阿密大学(University of Miami)的研究人员对长者血液中的咖啡因浓度进行检测，这些老年人要么出现了轻度认知障碍，要么开始初现严重健忘症状，而这通常是患阿尔茨海默症的征兆。在2-4年后，研究者对他们再次进行检测。血液中含极少或完全不含咖啡因的人阿尔茨海默症严重恶化的可能性，要远甚于血检结果显示每天喝三杯咖啡的受试者。
There’s still much to be learned about the effects of coffee. “We don’t know whether blocking the action of adenosine is sufficient” to prevent or lessen the effects of dementia, says Dr. Gregory G. Freund, a professor of pathology at the University of Illinois who led the 2012 study of mice. It is also unclear whether caffeine by itself provides the benefits associated with coffee drinking or if coffee contains other valuable ingredients. In a 2011 study by the same researchers at the University of South Florida, for instance, mice genetically bred to develop Alzheimer’s and then given caffeine alone did not fare as well on memory tests as those provided with actual coffee. Nor is there any evidence that mixing caffeine with large amounts of sugar, as in energy drinks, is healthful. But a cup or three of coffee “has been popular for a long, long time,” Dr. Freund says, “and there’s probably good reasons for that.”
对于咖啡的效果，现在人们仍然知之甚少。格里高利·G·弗伦德(Gregory G. Freund)博士是伊利诺伊大学病理学教授，也是2012年那项小鼠试验的组织者，他说，“我们尚不明确，阻滞腺苷的活动是否足以”防止或减弱其对痴呆症的影响。目前也不能确切得知，喝咖啡带来的益处主要在于它含有的咖啡因，还是其中的其他有益成份。比方说，在2011年由南佛罗里达大学的同一组研究人员还做了一项试验，经过基因改造而易患上阿尔茨海默症的小鼠要接受记忆力测试，结果服用咖啡因的小鼠表现不如喝真正的咖啡的小鼠好。此外，也没有证据表明将咖啡因混合大量糖——这就是功能饮料——有健康益处。但是，弗伦德博士说，每天喝三两杯咖啡“已经时兴了很长很长时间，而且这么做也许是有很好的理由的。”