A new study has found that dementia rates among people 65 and older in England and Wales have plummeted by 25 percent over the past two decades, to 6.2 percent from 8.3 percent, a trend that researchers say is probably occurring across developed countries and that could have major social and economic implications for families and societies.
一项最新研究发现，在英格兰和威尔士，65岁及以上人群中痴呆症患者的比例在过去二十年下降了25%，从8.3%下降到了6.2%。研究人员称，这种趋势可能正发生在所有发达国家，并且可能对家庭和社会带来重要的社会和经济影响。
Another recent study, conducted in Denmark, found that people in their 90s who were given a standard test of mental ability in 2010 scored substantially better than people who had reached their 90s a decade earlier. Nearly one-quarter of those assessed in 2010 scored at the highest level, a rate twice that of those tested in 1998. The percentage of subjects severely impaired fell to 17 percent from 22 percent.
前不久，在丹麦做的另一项研究发现，在2010年接受心智能力标准测试的90多岁的人的得分，远远好于十年前的那些90多岁的人。在2010年接受测试的人中，将近四分之一的得分达到了最高水平，这个比例是1998年那次测试的两倍。在调查对象当中，心智能力严重受损者的比例从22%降到了17%。
The British study, published on Tuesday in The Lancet, and the Danish one, which was released last week, also in The Lancet, soften alarms sounded by advocacy groups and some public health officials who have forecast a rapid rise in the number of people with dementia, as well as in the costs of caring for them. The projections assumed the odds of getting dementia would be unchanged.
英国的研究和丹麦的研究分别于本周二和上周发表在《柳叶刀》(The Lancet)上。这两项研究缓和了倡导组织和一些公共健康官员的警告，这些组织和官员预测，痴呆症患者的人数以及照顾这些患者的成本将会快速增加。这些预测的假定前提是患痴呆症的几率不会改变。
Yet experts on aging said the studies also confirmed something they had suspected but had had difficulty proving: that dementia rates would fall and mental acuity improve as the population grew healthier and better educated. The incidence of dementia is lower among those better educated, as well as among those who control their blood pressure and cholesterol, possibly because some dementia is caused by ministrokes and other vascular damage. So as populations controlled cardiovascular risk factors better and had more years of schooling, it made sense that the risk of dementia might decrease. A half-dozen previous studies had hinted that the rate was falling, but they had flaws that led some to doubt the conclusions.
然而，研究老龄化问题的专家称，这两项研究还证实了他们有所怀疑却难以证明的东西：随着人们变得更健康，接受的教育更好，痴呆症患者比例将会下降，精神敏锐度也会得到改善。在受教育程度更好和控制血压及胆固醇的人中间，痴呆症发病率较低，可能是因为部分痴呆症是由短暂性脑缺血发作和其他血管损伤导致的。因此，鉴于人们更好地控制了心血管风险因素，并接受了更多的教育，患痴呆症的风险有所降低也是顺理成章的事情。之前已经有六项研究暗示这一比例正在下降，但这些研究存在一些瑕疵，导致一些人质疑它们的结论。
Researchers said the two new studies were the strongest, most credible evidence yet that their hunch had been right. Dallas Anderson, an expert on the epidemiology of dementia at the National Institute on Aging, the principal financer of dementia research in the United States, said the new studies were “rigorous and are strong evidence.” He added that he expected that the same trends were occurring in the United States but that studies were necessary to confirm them.
研究人员称，这两项最新研究是迄今为止最有力、最可靠的证据，证明那些研究的预感是对的。美国痴呆症研究的主要出资机构国家老龄化研究所(National Institute on Aging)痴呆症流行病学专家达拉斯·安德森(Dallas Anderson)表示，最新研究“很严密，可以作为有力的证据”。他补充说，他估计美国也出现了同样的趋势，但必须通过研究才能确证。
“It’s terrific news,” said Dr. P. Murali Doraiswamy, an Alzheimer’s researcher at Duke University, who was not involved in the new studies. It means, he said, that the common assumption that every successive generation will have the same risk for dementia does not hold true.
杜克大学(Duke University)的阿耳茨海默氏征研究员P·穆拉利·多雷斯瓦米(P. Murali Doraiswamy)博士没有参与这项新研究，但他表示，“这是一个好消息”，意味着关于每一代都有相同的痴呆症风险的普遍假定是站不住脚的。
The new studies offer hope amid a cascade of bad news about Alzheimer’s disease and dementia. Major clinical trials of drugs to treat Alzheimer’s have failed. And a recent analysis by the RAND Corporation — based on an assumption that dementia rates would remain steady — concluded that the number of people with dementia would double in the next 30 years as the baby boom generation aged, as would the costs of caring for them. But its lead author, Michael D. Hurd, a principal senior researcher at RAND, said in an interview that his projections of future cases and costs could be off if the falling dementia rates found in Britain held true in the United States.
在关于阿耳茨海默氏征和痴呆症的坏消息不绝于耳之际，新研究给出了希望。治疗阿耳茨海默氏征的一些主要临床药物试验已经失败。基于痴呆症患病比例将维持稳定的假定，兰德公司(RAND Corporation)最近的一项分析得出结论称，随着婴儿潮一代的老去，未来30年里，患有痴呆症的人口数量将会翻番，照顾这些病人的成本也将翻番。不过，此次分析的主要作者、兰德公司的首要资深研究员迈克尔·D·赫德(Michael D. Hurd)在一次采访中说，如果在英国发现的痴呆症患病比例下降的状况也适用于美国的话，那他对这种病的未来病例和成本的预测就不能算数了。
Dr. Marcel Olde Rikkert of Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center in the Netherlands, who wrote an editorial to accompany the Danish study, said estimates of the risk of dementia in older people “urgently need a reset.”
荷兰的内梅亨大学奈美恩医学院(Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center)博士马塞尔·奥尔德·里克尔特(Marcel Olde Rikkert)为丹麦的研究撰写了一篇随文社评，他说，老年人患上痴呆症风险的预测“急需重设”。
But Maria Carrillo, vice president of medical and scientific relations at the Alzheimer’s Association, an advocacy group, was not convinced that the trends were real or that they held for the United States.
不过，倡导组织阿耳茨海默氏征协会(Alzheimer’s Association)的医学和科学关系副会长玛丽亚·卡里略(Maria Carrillo)并不确定这种趋势是真的，也不确定美国会出现这种趋势。
The studies assessed dementia, which includes Alzheimer’s disease but also other conditions that can make mental functioning deteriorate. Richard Suzman, the director of the division of behavioral and social research at the National Institute on Aging, said it was not possible to know from the new studies whether Alzheimer’s was becoming more or less prevalent.
评估痴呆病的研究不仅针对阿耳茨海默氏征，也针对其他可能引发脑功能退化的病况。国家老龄化研究所行为与社会研究分部主管理查德·苏兹曼(Richard Suzman)说，新研究无法告诉人们，阿耳茨海默氏征是正在变得更为普遍，还是有所收敛。