Immigrants have contributed billions of dollars more to Medicare in recent years than the program has paid out on their behalf, according to a new study, a pattern that goes against the notion that immigrants are a drain on federal health care spending.
根据一项新研究，移民每年向联邦医疗保险(Medicare)计划缴纳的资金，要比该计划为他们支付的费用多出数十亿美元，这个结论驳斥了人们认为移民是联邦医疗保险支出的一个负担的观念。
The study, led by researchers at Harvard Medical School, measured immigrants’ contributions to the part of Medicare that pays for hospital care, a trust fund that accounts for nearly half of the federal program’s revenue. It found that immigrants generated surpluses totaling $115 billion from 2002 to 2009. In comparison, the American-born population incurred a deficit of $28 billion over the same period.
由哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)研究人员主导的这项研究，衡量了移民向联邦医疗保险中覆盖住院费用的部分所缴纳的金额。该基金在联邦医疗保险的总收入中占了近50%。研究发现，从2002年到2009年之间，移民们创造了总计1150亿美元的盈余。相比之下，生于美国的人口在同期造成了280亿美元的亏损。
The findings shed light on what demographers have long known: Immigrants are crucial in balancing the age structure of American society, providing an infusion of young, working-age adults who support the country’s aging population and help cover the costs of Medicare and Social Security. And with the largest generation in the United States, the baby boomers, now starting to retire, the financial help from immigrants has never been more needed, experts said.
这项发现印证了人口学家早就知道的观点：移民对平衡美国社会的年龄结构相当关键，前提是涌入美国的是年轻、正值工作年龄的成年人，他们能扶助美国老龄化的人口，帮助承担联邦医疗保险和社会安全福利(Social Security)的成本。专家们说，随着美国规模最庞大的一代人，也就是婴儿潮一代(baby boomers)开始退休，美国从未像现在这样迫切地需要来自移民的经济支持。
Individual immigrant contributions were roughly the same as those of American citizens, the study found, but immigrants as a group received less than they paid in, largely because they were younger on average than the American-born population and fewer of them were old enough to be eligible for benefits. The median age of Hispanics, whose foreign-born contingent is by far the largest immigrant group, is 27, according to the Brookings Institution. The median age of non-Hispanic whites in the United States is 42.
研究发现，移民个人缴纳的金额和美国公民缴纳额大体相同，不过，作为一个群体，移民享受的支出比已缴纳的费用要少，这在很大程度上是因为，平均而言，他们比生于美国的人口更年轻，他们当中老到有资格享受福利的人口则更少。根据布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的数据，西语裔人口的年龄中位数是27岁，而在国外出生的西语裔人口是美国规模最大的一个移民群体，比其他群体规模大很多。美国非西语裔白人的年龄中位数为42岁。
The study drew on two nationally representative federal surveys, from the Census Bureau and the Department of Health and Human Services. Researchers included the contributions of legal residents who were not citizens, a group that is eligible for Medicare if certain requirements are met; unauthorized immigrants; and citizens who were born abroad.
这项研究采用了两项具有全国代表性的联邦调查数据，它们来自美国人口普查局(Census Bureau)和美国卫生和公众服务部(Department of Health and Human Service)。研究人员把不是美国公民的合法居民也包括在内，这一群体如能满足一定条件，就有资格享受联邦医疗保险；研究对象还包括非法移民；以及出生在国外的公民。
It was not clear how much of the surplus was made up of earnings by immigrants in the country illegally, who are ineligible for most government programs.
不清楚有多少盈余来自非法移民在美国的收入，他们没有资格获得大部分政府提供的福利。
The Census Bureau, whose data was used for the contributions portion of the study, says it attempts to count all immigrants, including those in the country illegally.
美国人口普查局表示，它尝试把所有移民，包括非法进入美国的移民统计在内。人口普查局的数据被该研究用于计算缴纳资金的比例。
The finding “pokes a hole in the widespread assumption that immigrants drain U.S. health care spending dollars,” said Leah Zallman, an instructor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and the lead author of the study.
哈佛医学院教师，本次研究的主要作者利娅·扎尔曼(Leah Zallman)说，这项发现“对广泛存在想法提出了质疑，很多人都认为移民消耗了美国的医疗保险支出”。
The study, which was published on the Web site of the journal Health Affairs on Wednesday, comes as Congress considers legislation that would eventually give legal status to the country’s 11 million unauthorized immigrants. The legislation has sparked a vigorous debate about whether immigrants ultimately contribute more than they receive from the federal budget. One of the sticking points has been whether immigrants should be eligible for government programs, including health benefits, before they qualify for citizenship, but while they are on the path to getting it.
这项研究于周三发表在了《健康事务》(Health Affairs)杂志的网站上。当前美国国会正在审议一份立法议案，该议案最终将向美国的1100万非法移民给予合法身份。这项议案已经激起了激烈的辩论，辩论的议题涉及移民缴纳的金额，是否高于他们从联邦预算中获得的收益。相持不下的一个问题是，在移民尚未获得公民身份，但正在申请期间，是否有资格领取包括医疗福利在内的政府福利。
The study was concerned only with Medicare, the federal program that accounts for about a fifth of all American health care expenditures. Experts said that the study’s findings served as a useful reminder that immigrants, at least for now, are extending the life of the beleaguered program, not hastening its demise.
这项研究仅限于联邦医疗保险项目，该项目在美国总医疗开支中约占五分之一。专家们表示，这项研究的发现应该可以清楚地提醒人们，移民们正在延长这个处境窘迫的福利项目的生命，而不是加速它的灭亡，至少目前是这样。
“There’s this strong belief that immigrants are takers,” said Leighton Ku, the director of the Center for Health Policy Research at George Washington University. “This shows they are contributing hugely. Without immigrants, the Medicare trust fund would be in trouble sooner.” The belief prevails, for example, among some opponents of immigration reform.
“很多人强烈地认为，移民是索取者，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)健康政策研究中心(Center for Health Policy Research)主任顾尊礼(Leighton Ku)说，“但这项研究显示，他们的贡献巨大。没有移民，联邦医疗保险信托基金会更早出现问题。”这种认为移民是索取者的看法，在一些反对移民改革的人中十分盛行。
The study did not grapple with the health care costs of immigrants over their full lifetimes, a calculation that economists say is critical to understanding their long-term impact on the federal budget.
这项研究没有调查移民一生的医疗费用。而经济学家认为，这一计算结果对于了解移民对联邦预算的长期影响至关重要。
“It’s just a snapshot of a point in time,” said Paul Van de Water, a visiting fellow at the liberal-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
在倾向自由派的预算与政策重点中心(Center on Budget and Policy Priorities)担任访问学者的保罗·范德沃特(Paul Van de Water)说：“它只反映了这一时间点的情况。”
Similar calculations have been made for Social Security. The chief actuary of the Social Security Administration, Stephen C. Goss, estimated that immigrants in the country illegally, some of whom assume fake Social Security numbers to provide cover for employers and themselves, among other reasons, generated a surplus of about $12 billion for the Social Security Trust Fund in 2010.
在社会安全福利项目上已做过了类似的计算。社会安全总署(Social Security Administration)首席精算师斯蒂芬·C·戈斯(Stephen C. Goss)估计，2010年，这个国家的非法移民共为社会安全福利信托基金(Social Security Trust Fund)多缴纳了120亿美元。为了保护雇主和他们自己，还有其他一些原因，非法移民中的一些人伪造了社会安全号码。
But that equation would change if unauthorized immigrants were to gain legal status under a new law and eventually began collecting Social Security once they were of retirement age. One major policy question is how much that might cost, experts said.
但是，如果非法移民在新法律的支持下最终获得合法身份，并且一旦到了退休年龄最终开始享受社会安全福利，那么这种计算结果就会改变。专家们表示，一个重要的政策问题是，这会花费多少钱。
The Heritage Foundation, a conservative institute, estimated that the legislation’s changes, if implemented, could cost taxpayers more than $6 trillion. Critics of that calculation said it did not take into account the economic benefits that would arise from taking millions of people out of the shadow economy.
据保守派机构传统基金会(Heritage Foundation)估计，如果新法律开始实行，将需要超过6万亿美元的税款。批评这一估算的人称，该估算没有考虑数百万名移民在脱离灰色经济后会产生的经济效益。
Mr. Goss, in a letter this month to Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, said that the legislation’s effect on the health of Social Security would be positive in the long term.
戈斯在本月写给佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)的一封信中说，新法律对社会安全福利的影响在长期看来是积极的。
Gordon Hanson, a professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego, who has worked on migration issues for 20 years, said there was still no comprehensive nonpartisan analysis of the fiscal consequences of putting illegal immigrants on the books.
研究移民问题长达20年的加州大学圣迭哥分校(University of California, San Diego)经济学教授戈登·汉森(Gordon Hanson)说，让非法移民获得公民身份会带来怎样的财政后果，目前对此还没有无党派立场的综合性分析。