Stone leaves me cold. Yes, Connemara green marble can be luscious, and the fossils in Indiana limestone may be mesmerizing, but the setting of stone — massive hunks of rock, which must be derricked into place — removes all sense of handwork. A stone wall is the creation of machines.
石头打动不了我的心。诚然，康尼马拉（Connemara，在爱尔兰的西部——译注）的绿色大理石可能华丽动人，而印第安那州石灰岩中的化石也令人痴迷，但安放石头的过程——尤其是那些必须用起重机才能搬到位的大块岩石，就与手工艺的感觉无缘了。一堵石墙，只是机械的产物。
On the other hand, the human touch is all over brick. It is not difficult to imagine a mason setting each one, squishing down the mortar and filling the joints, moving on to the next, and then starting all over again. Any brick wall is barely a handshake away from the people who, a few months or years or centuries ago, created it; one degree of separation, if you will.
而砖块则处处附着了人类触摸的痕迹。不难想象一位泥瓦匠的工作场景——放好一块砖，抹上砂浆，填满砖缝，然后再放另一块砖，如此这般，循环往复。每一堵砌好的砖墙，都像与砌墙者的一次握手告别。无论砌成于几个月前、几年前或是几个世纪前，砖墙都会给人一种别离之感，如果你愿意这样想的话。
This sense of antiquity is best displayed in Roman brick, usually 12 inches long as opposed to the more common 8 inches. This kind was used before the Romans, and it is not clear how it developed in the ancient world; perhaps in drying, the thinner form was more forgiving in shrinkage. But somehow the empire put its stamp on it, and the part-ruined buildings of Classical Italy are full of these long, flat shapes: the arches of the fourth-century Baths of Diocletian come to mind.
砖墙的沧桑感，在罗马砖块中得到了最佳体现。罗马砖块通常12英寸长（约30.5厘米），而普通砖块的长度只有8英寸（约20.3厘米）。在罗马人之前，人们用的也是这种砖块，但它在古代世界中是怎样产生的，还不得而知，可能是在干燥的过程中，外形较薄的砖块更加不易缩水。但罗马帝国设法在这种砖块上打了自己的烙印。于是，在意大利古典建筑中那些一半倾颓的遗迹中，这种修长扁平的形状随处可见，比如公元四世纪建造的戴克里先浴场(Baths of Diocletian)的那些拱门。
In New York, Roman brick came to be used in all sorts of ways, but the kind I like is all over Park and West End Avenues, where it was fashionable in apartment houses of the early 20th century. The brick at 960 Park Avenue, on the 82nd Street corner, has deep-struck joints; the mortar has been raked out, leaving the brick projecting. Because the brick is irregular and on the thin side, it has a fragile air, as if it might snap off.
在纽约，罗马砖块也被用在了各种场合。而我喜欢的那种，都分布在公园大道和西区大道(Park and West End Avenues)上。当地于20世纪初修建的那些公寓式住宅中，罗马砖块曾经风行一时。在第82大街的转角处，公园大道960号的砖块有着深陷的砖缝，缝里的砂浆都被清理出去，只剩砖块凸出来。由于形状偏瘦且不规则，这种砖块看起来不太结实，似乎随时都会断裂。
Although red brick was the standard in New York until after the Civil War, a quest for variety began in the 1880s. That’s when dappled iron-spot brick was introduced. The 1894 Dakota Stables, a masonry masterpiece of orange iron-spot trimmed with salmon-colored brick, stood at Amsterdam Avenue and 77th Street until a few years ago. Although it was an obvious development site for two decades, only a passing effort was made to save it.
虽然在美国内战结束前，红砖墙是纽约市建筑的标准配置，但从19世纪80年代开始，这座城市开始追求多样化。就在这一时期，带斑点的铁斑砖块(iron-spot brick)被引进来。1894年建造的达科塔马厩(Dakota Stables)就是砖式建筑的杰作。其墙体上的橘色铁斑，点缀着鲑鱼色的砖块。它曾屹立在阿姆斯特丹大道(Amsterdam Avenue)与第77街之间，直到前几年才被拆除。虽然过去二十年来，这里无疑是个处于开发中的地段，但人们只是短暂地尝试了一下挽救这栋大楼。
Another striking orange iron-spot brick structure in New York is still with us: the delicate Church of the Holy Trinity on East 88th Street, between Second and First Avenues. Built by the Rhinelander family in 1897 and designed by Barney & Chapman, this is a complex arrangement of French Gothic forms, more like a small town than a single structure, perhaps the best such assemblage in Manhattan.
不过，纽约市内还保留着另一栋醒目的橘红色铁斑砖式建筑——精美的圣三一教堂(Church of the Holy Trinity)。它坐落在东88街，位于第一大道与第二大道之间。这座教堂是由莱茵兰德家族(Rhinelander family)于1897年委托Barney & Chapman公司设计建造的，是一栋复杂的法式哥特建筑。它更像是一座小镇，而不是独栋的建筑。这座教堂或许就是曼哈顿地区砖式结构的最佳代表。
In addition to iron-spot, it has Roman brick. Instead of the thick joints used at 960 Park Avenue, the architects laid the brick more tightly here, contributing to what The Brickbuilder magazine described in 1899 as “a harmony of color that is only surpassed by nature’s inimitable autumn foliage.”
这座建筑上除了铁斑砖块，还有罗马砖块，而且砖缝不像公园大道960号的那么深。建筑师将砖块砌得更为紧密，因而被《砖式建筑》(The Brickbuilder)杂志在1899年描述为：“颜色是如此和谐，也许只有大自然里无可比拟的秋叶才能将其超越。”
The flat arches over the basement windows are worth a look, too. The bricks were shaped to form wedges laid one next to the other, spanning the opening. The delicacy of such work is often astonishing; another example is the curved arch on the old stable at 75 East 77th Street, where the bricks reduce to an amazing thinness.
此处建筑物地下室窗户的平拱也值得一看。砌窗的砖块都做成楔子形，一块叠着一块横跨窗口，其做工的精细程度往往让人吃惊；另一个例子就是位于东77街75号的老马厩的拱门，那里的砖块被削薄的程度令人惊讶。
Neither thin nor delicate, clinker brick is the Marlon Brando of masonry: misshapen, blackened in the kiln, historically regarded as trash by brickmakers. The architects George and Edward Blum were among New York’s most versatile designers in brick, and clinkers did not escape their imagination, especially at the 1930 apartment house at 405 East 54th Street, at First Avenue.
烧结砖(clinker brick)既不薄也不精致，就像砖料中的马龙•白兰度(Marlon Brando)：奇形怪状，在砖窑中变得黝黑，过去一直被制砖者视为垃圾。建筑大师乔治和爱德华·布卢姆(George and Edward Blum)是纽约最多才多艺的砖块设计师，这种烧结砖让他们充分发挥了想象力，在1930年建造的一栋公寓住宅就是代表。这栋楼位于第一大道，在东54街405号。
The First Avenue side is all storefront, but the brick on 54th Street was laid every which way, a hypnotic whirl of dark red, purple and black chunks of misshapen brick, 95 percent of which would be rejected for a standard colonial-style house. The Blums’ client could afford this technique only on the lower floors. Above, the rubble falls into line — throwaway brick is expensive!
面向第一大道的那侧全是店面，而第54街一侧的砖块，则朝向四面八方，形成一个由一组组形状不规则的砖块构成的深红、紫色和黑色漩涡，令人头晕目眩。其中95%的砖块，都是建造标准的殖民地风格房屋时不会被选用的材料。布卢姆兄弟的这位客户出于经济考虑，只能把这种砌砖技术用于较低的楼层。再往上，这些碎砖块就被简单排成了行——一次性的砖块太昂贵了！
If clinker brick is the Wild One, brick set in the crisscross pattern called diaper work is like a ballerina. In New York the grandpappy of diaper work was the 1865 National Academy of Design at Park Avenue South and 23rd Street, reminiscent of the Doge’s Palace in Venice.
如果烧结砖属于狂野的一类，那么被称作菱形花格工艺的交叉排列式样，就像一位芭蕾舞女演员了。在纽约，运用菱形花格工艺的鼻祖是1865年建造的国家设计学院(National Academy of Design)，位于公园大道南与第23街之间，那栋楼让人想起威尼斯的总督府(Doge’s Palace)。
Not everyone loved the crisscross design, covering the entire second floor. The Real Estate Record and Guide could hardly bear to look at it, describing it in 1868 as “architectural delirium tremens, where variegated bricks make up a sort of mosaic front.”
但并非每个人都喜欢把交叉排列的设计用于整个二楼的。1868年，《房地产记录与指南》(Real Estate Record and Guide)对此就颇为不屑一顾，还称之为“建筑物的精神错乱，那些乱七八糟的砖块构成了一种有点像马赛克的立面。”
The academy building is long gone, but the Upper West Side has several diapered apartment houses, the Allenhurst, at Broadway and West 100th Street, and the Peter Stuyvesant, at Riverside Drive and 98th Street. The Peter Stuyvesant was designed in 1908 for a group including James T. Lee, a grandfather of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
这栋学院大楼，在很早以前就已不复存在。但在上西区仍有几栋菱形花格的公寓楼。比如百老汇与西100街之间的艾伦赫斯特(Allenhurst)大楼，还有河滨大道(Riverside Drive)与第98街之间的彼得·斯蒂文森(Peter Stuyvesant)大楼。后者设计于1908年，其业主包括杰奎琳·肯尼迪·奥纳西斯(Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis)的祖父詹姆斯·T·李(James T. Lee)。
There, the crisscross covers the top three floors, writ very bold because the building is so tall. Surrounded by great bosses of polychrome terra cotta and underneath a deep green copper cornice, the bricks softly stair-step up the facade. There must be thousands; each one was set by a human hand.
在那栋楼上，菱形花格覆盖了最上端的三层楼，由于这座建筑本来就很高，看起来特别显眼。大楼四周耸立着巨大的彩绘陶罐，在深绿色的铜檐口之下，砖块在立面上柔和地拼出阶梯向上的图案，数量肯定有上千块之多，而其中的每一块，都是由劳动者的双手砌成的。