His younger daughter was the last to go into the ground. Before her had gone her sister, her younger brother and the baby, William. Too small for his own coffin, he lay nestled beside their mother.
他的小女儿最后一个入土。在她之前入土的是她的姐姐、弟弟和最小的宝宝威廉姆(William)。威廉姆太小了，没有自己的棺材，而是躺在他们的母亲身边。
After American soil had covered his family’s coffins, Yilin Zhuo had nothing left to stay for. In early December, he abandoned his adopted home, Brooklyn, for the Chinese village he had come from two decades ago.
在美国的黄土掩埋了他一家人的棺材之后，卓仪林在这里没有值得他留下来的事情了。12月初，他放弃了自己在布鲁克林的第二故乡，返回了20年前离开的中国村庄。
“A father just wants to see his children grow up,” he said, hours before his flight. “Now my children are gone. My wife is gone. Can I ever be happy again?”
在飞机起飞的几小时前，他说，“一个父亲只是想看着自己的孩子长大。现在我的孩子都不在了。老婆也不在了。我还能再开心吗？”
Linda was 9; Amy, 7; Kevin, 5; and William, just 1. They and their mother, Qiaozhen Li, 37, were found stabbed to death in late October in their Sunset Park apartment. A cousin who had been staying with the family was arrested after the police found him there, his clothes spattered with blood, a large kitchen knife nearby.
琳达(Linda)死时9岁；艾米(Amy)7岁；凯文(Kevin)5岁；威廉姆，只有1岁。他们以及他们37岁的母亲李巧珍被人在去年10月底发现被砍死在位于日落公园(Sunset Park)的公寓内。警察在现场找到一个和这家人住在一起的表亲，将其逮捕，他的衣服上溅着血迹，旁边有一把厨房用的菜刀。
It was family violence on a scale rarely seen in New York City, set in motion, the cousin told the police, by his sense of failure to find the security, stability and family all newcomers to Brooklyn’s Chinatown seek.
这起家庭暴力事件的残酷程度在纽约市实属罕见，该表亲对警察表示，导致惨案的原因是自己的失败感，他在布鲁克林的中国城没有找到安全、稳定和家庭，这些是所有的新移民寻求的东西。
Until that Saturday night, the household had been one more poor immigrant family among the thousands who have emptied the towns and villages around Fuzhou, in the Fujian Province in southeastern China, for Sunset Park.
直到惨案发生的那个周六晚之前，这个家庭一直是成千户贫穷移民家庭之一，这些来自中国东南部福建省福州市附近的城镇和乡村的移民成批地离开老家，来到日落公园定居。
Once in New York, the men board buses for jobs in the Chinese takeout shops and buffets that sprout improbably along neon-lit highways and inside small-town strip malls: west to Michigan, north to Maine, south to Georgia. America’s Chinese restaurants are a diaspora of the Fuzhounese, nearly half a million of them hoping, like generations of immigrants before them, that long hours and low wages will someday make their uprooting worth it.
一旦来到纽约后，他们中的男人登上大巴，前往中国外卖店和快餐馆工作，这些小店令人难以置信地如雨后春笋般出现在霓虹闪烁的公路两旁，或一些小镇的沿路商业区中，西至密歇根州，北至缅因州，南到乔治亚州。美国的中餐馆是福州人流离海外的去处，将近50万福州人，像他们之前的几代移民那样，希望长时间的工作和低工资会在有朝一日让他们得到背井离乡的回报。
Mr. Zhuo, 41, was one such worker. His cousin, Mindong Chen, 25, was another. Their divergent paths — one on the way up, the other now charged with murder — lay bare the reality of life in this Chinese community: crushing burdens and relentless poverty, permanent for all but a few.
现年41岁的卓仪林曾是这些打工者中的一员。他的表弟、25岁的陈闽东也是其中的一员。他们的不同道路——一个曾越过越好，而另一个则现在被指控犯有杀人罪——把这个华人社区的现实生活暴露无遗：沉重的负担和残酷的贫困，对除了极少数的几乎所有人来说，永无止境。
Mr. Chen’s troubles were there for all to see in his postings on Qzone, a Chinese social media service. “Why is the pressure now so great?” he wrote. “The path has been so difficult.”
任何人都能从陈闽东的QQ空间上看出他的烦恼，QQ空间是一个中文社交媒体。他写道，“为什么现在压力这么大？道路这么难走。”
Little has been told beyond the Chinese press about the people who died and about Mr. Zhuo, the father left behind, and Mr. Chen, the cousin. He is awaiting a hearing on whether he is mentally competent to stand trial for murder.
除了中文媒体外，几乎没有关于死者和留在他们身后的父亲卓仪林、以及卓仪林的表弟陈闽东的报道。陈闽东正在等待一次关于他是否精神正常、可接受杀人罪审判的法庭听证。
Both cousins had come to New York the same way, as young men sent away from home to grind away at busboy and wok-cook jobs that offer only the merest hope of a better life. But Mr. Zhuo built his chance into a humble career, home and family.
这两个表兄弟以同样的方式来到纽约，他们年轻时被送离家乡，到餐厅从事打杂和掌勺的长时间工作，这种工作给更好的生活只带来仅仅一点希望。但卓仪林却用他的机会打造出了一份卑微的职业，得到一个住所和家庭。
What little he had, his cousin — struggling, envious, desperate — is accused of shattering in one night.
而他的表弟则陷入困境、嫉妒和绝望之中，他被指控在一夜之间摧毁了卓仪林所仅有的一切。
Fired from yet another job and on the verge of deportation, Mr. Chen came to stay in the family’s 57th Street apartment in October. He gambled. He smoked. He did not act right, Ms. Li told relatives. Days before the stabbings, Mr. Chen had argued with the children. The night of Oct. 26, Ms. Li, in a call with her mother-in-law in China, told her that Mr. Chen had a knife. By the time concerned relatives came to her door and Mr. Zhuo rushed home from work, it was too late.
去年10月，陈闽东再次被解雇、面临被驱逐出境，之后他来到卓仪林家位于57号大街的公寓中暂住。他赌博、抽烟。李巧珍对亲戚说，他不干正事。事发几天前，陈闽东曾与孩子们发生争吵。10月26日晚，李巧珍在给中国的婆婆打电话时说，陈闽东有一把刀。等到担心的亲戚来到她家门口、卓仪林匆匆从店里赶回时，为时已晚。
Soon after his arrest, Mr. Chen told detectives that “everyone seems to be doing better than him” since he arrived in the United States in 2004, according to the police.
据警方称，陈闽东在被逮捕后不久告诉调查人员，自从2004年9月他来到这里后，“每个人似乎都比他过得更好。”
His family, and Mr. Zhuo’s, had borrowed tens of thousands of dollars from relatives and friends for Chinese smuggling rings, known as snakeheads, to sneak their sons into New York City.
他的家人，以及卓仪林的家人从亲戚朋友那里借了几万美元付给中国的偷渡人口团伙，也就是蛇头，将他们的儿子偷渡到纽约市。
They would speak no English, have few prospects. But there was still a chance — to support their families, repay their smuggling debts, sponsor emigrating relatives and start families.
他们不会说英语，前途渺茫，但这仍是一种机会，可能让他们能帮助家人、还清偷渡欠下的债、赞助亲戚移民，以及拥有自己的家庭。
The restaurant workers live by two dark jokes. One plays on the Chinese words for snakehead, stove burner and pillow, which all end in the suffix meaning “head.” “We Fujianese have three heads — snakehead, stove burner, pillow,” they say. Arrive by boat or plane, cook, sleep, wake to cook again. Jobs last between a few weeks and a few years.
这些餐厅打工者靠两个黑色幽默度日。一个玩的是汉语中蛇头、灶头和枕头三个词，它们都已“头”字结尾。他们说，“我们福建人有三个头——蛇头、灶头、枕头。”他们乘轮船或飞机来到这里，每天都在做饭、睡觉、睡醒了再做饭中度过。在一个岗位上一般工作几周到几年时间不等。
The other saying, “ka che dian,” or “card, car, store,” refers to the green card, property and business that young men must possess before they are considered eligible to marry. But before saving for the future, they must toil for years to repay their snakehead debts, which can top $80,000.
另一个是“卡、车、店”，指的年轻男子被认为有资格结婚所必须拥有的绿卡、财产和生意。但是，在为未来积蓄之前，他们必须辛苦工作好几年，以偿还他们欠蛇头的债，这种债最高可达8万美元（约合人民币48万元）。
“Work is our entire life. We don’t have any choice,” said James Zheng, 31, who bounced between more than 10 different restaurants across the country before opening an employment agency off Sunset Park’s Eighth Avenue, the heart of Brooklyn’s Chinatown. “They think if they keep working so hard, they can own a restaurant or own a house.”
31岁的詹姆斯·郑(James Zheng)说，“工作就是我们的全部生活，我们没有任何选择。他们认为只要自己坚持努力工作，就能拥有一家餐馆或一座房子。”郑先生在美国各地的10多家不同的餐馆打过工，后来在日落公园的第八大道上开了一家就业中介机构。
“What they’re pursuing and what they’re living are completely different,” he added. “This is the American dream: There’s nothing to it.”
他补充说，“他们所追求的与他们的现实生活截然不同。这是就是美国梦：就这么简单。”
Mr. Zhuo’s father died when he was 12. When he was 21, he was smuggled out of China for $40,000.
卓仪林的父亲在他12岁时去世。他21岁时花了4万美元从中国偷渡到美国。
By 2006, he had secured a long-term position as a stir-fry cook at Best Wok, a takeout shop in Rosedale, Queens, preparing dish after dish of chicken and broccoli. After he struggled to find a wife in New York, his mother set him up with a friend’s daughter in China, Ms. Li.
到2006年时，他已在皇后区罗斯代尔的一家叫“Best Wok”的中餐外卖店得到了一个长期的炒菜厨师的位置，炒出了一盘又一盘的鸡肉西兰花。在纽约找老婆失败多次后，他的母亲在中国把一位朋友的女儿李巧珍介绍给了他。
As his family grew, Mr. Zhuo worked harder. Knowing he could not afford cigarettes, he never smoked. He declined his boss’s invitations for nights out. He saved up to help a brother pay his smuggling debts.
随着家庭人口的增加，卓仪林更加卖命地工作。他知道自己买不起香烟，所以从不抽烟。他婉绝老板请他晚上出去消遣的邀请。他攒钱帮一个兄弟还清了偷渡欠的债。
To avoid the lengthy commute from eastern Queens, Mr. Zhuo lived like an out-of-town worker, sharing a room provided by his boss with other employees. He went home on Sundays. After 12-hour shifts ended at midnight, he and others watched TV or video chatted with their families.
为了节省去皇后区东部上班花在路上的时间，他像来自城外的打工者那样，和其他员工一起住在老板提供的一间宿舍里。他每个周日回家一次。每天在12个小时的工作结束后，他和其他人一起看电视，或与家人视频聊天。
Over time, the couple found some security. They paid off their snakehead debts two years ago. Both gained legal status. While others sent their children to be raised in China, Ms. Li stayed at home with their four children. They rented part of their apartment to relatives, crowding into the remaining two rooms.
慢慢地，这对夫妻找到了一点安全感。两年前，他们还清了欠蛇头的所有债款。两个人都获得了合法的身份。其他移民把自己的孩子送回中国抚养，李巧珍却呆在家里自己带四个孩子。他们还把自己公寓的一部分出租给亲戚，一家人则挤在余下的两个房间里。
When Mr. Chen knocked on their door this fall, he had just been fired from a job in Chicago. They offered him a meal, then a bed.
去年秋天，陈闽东敲开了他们家的门，他刚在芝加哥被解雇。他们给他提供了吃的，还让他住了下来。
Since arriving in the United States as a 16-year-old, Mr. Chen had had trouble holding down work. Between jobs, he gambled and smoked marijuana in illegal slot machine parlors, said his friend of several years, Tony Chen. Often agitated, he would pound his hand against the machines when he lost.
陈闽东从16岁那年来到美国后，一直不能在一个工作岗位上长久地干下去。和他相识几年的朋友托尼·陈(Tony Chen)说，他没有工作时常在非法的老虎机店赌博、抽大麻。他常常脾气不好，赌输的时候会用手狠狠地拍机器。
He was usually broke, earning little but his family’s disapproval. His father, Chen Yixiang, had paid nearly $100,000 to his son’s smugglers, and still owes half that to lenders, he said. “I will never be able to see my son again,” Mr. Yixiang said, speaking from China. “I am worse off than my son is now. My head is a mess.”
他经常身无分文，除了家人的失望，什么都挣不到。他说，他的父亲陈一祥（音译）把自己偷渡出国花了近10万美元，现在还欠着这笔钱的一半。陈一祥在中国说，“我再也见不到儿子了。我比他现在的情况还糟糕。脑子里一团糟。”
The stream of Fuzhounese immigrants has slowed in recent years. But New York still exerts a powerful pull for those who might earn $2,000 a year at home, compared with $1,500 or $3,000 a month in a restaurant, said Kenneth J. Guest, a Baruch College anthropologist who studies the city’s Fuzhounese population.
最近几年来，福州人的移民潮有所放缓。但是，对那些在国内一年可能只挣2000美元的人来说，纽约对他们仍具有强大的吸引力，在这里的餐馆打工一个月可挣1500到3000美元，巴鲁克学院(Baruch College)研究纽约市福州籍人口的人类学家肯尼斯·J·格斯特(Kenneth J. Guest)说。
In the employment agencies, men study grids of yellow Post-it notes fluttering on the walls. Each announces a job, monthly pay and a three-digit number, the restaurant’s telephone area code. For many, the names of the cities and states where they work mean little. What they know are numbers: highway exits, area codes and the time it takes to ride back to Chinatown.
在就业中介所里，男人们仔细地看着贴满墙上的随风飘动的黄色便笺贴。每张贴上宣布着一个工作岗位、月薪和一个三位数的号码，这是该餐馆所在地的电话区域码。对很多人来说，他们打工的城市和州的名字没什么意义。他们知道的只是数字：高速路出口号、电话区域码、以及从打工的地方返回中国城需要的乘车时间。
On days off, or between jobs, they return to New York. Some keep small rooms in subdivided apartments, sharing them with as many as six roommates. Others stay with relatives. The less fortunate pay a few dollars to spend the night in Internet cafes, playing computer games until they fall asleep.
休息日或待业期间，他们回到纽约。有些人在被分隔成小间的公寓里有一个小房间，最多时和6个人一起住在里面。其他人则住在亲戚家。更不幸的人就花几美元在网吧度夜，打游戏打到睡着为止。
Although Mr. Chen did not have much money or a green card, he got engaged a few years ago, Tony Chen said. But after he paid the customary bride-price — a prerequisite that can top $50,000 among the Brooklyn Fuzhounese — the woman disappeared, a not-uncommon type of marriage fraud that left Mr. Chen devastated.
托尼·陈说，虽然陈闽东没有钱也没有绿卡，但他在几年前订过婚。在布鲁克林的福州人中，订婚所需的彩礼最高可达5万美元，然而，在他付了彩礼之后，那个女子消失了。这种并不罕见的骗婚让陈闽东极度痛苦。
“Looking at one couple after the next. Why do I feel so lonely?” he wrote on Qzone in August 2012. “I want to shout out loud: I love you.”
他2012年8月在QQ空间上写道，“看着一对对的夫妻。为什么我这么孤独？我想大声喊出：我爱你。”
In this environment, anxiety and depression run rampant. But mental illness is both stigmatized and not well understood in the community, said Paul P. Mak, the president of the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, who recently organized a series of mental health workshops at the Zhuo children’s school. Mr. Chen has undergone psychiatric evaluation, said his lawyer, Danielle V. Eaddy. A hearing on whether he is fit to stand trial is scheduled for January.
在这种环境中，焦虑和绝望很常见。但是，布鲁克林美籍华人协会(Brooklyn Chinese-American Association)会长保罗·P·麦(Paul P. Mak)说，在这个社区里，精神疾病被认为是一种耻辱，人们对这种疾病也缺乏了解，他最近在卓仪林孩子上过学的学校里组织了一系列精神健康研讨班。陈闽东的律师丹妮尔·V·伊艾迪(Danielle V. Eaddy)说，陈闽东已经做了心理评估。有关他是否足够正常、从而能出庭受审的听证会计划将在1月份举行。
Speaking little English and afraid of immigration authorities, many immigrants do not turn to the police when they feel they are in danger, Mr. Mak said. It is unclear whether Ms. Li sought help for Mr. Chen before Oct. 26.
麦先生说，很多移民由于英语水平有限，也由于害怕移民局，在他们感觉自己面临危险时不敢报警。不清楚李巧珍在10月26日之前是否为陈闽东寻求过帮助。
Too late to save her, her family flew to New York last month for the funeral. They scattered daisies and carnations over the coffins — white flowers, the Chinese color of grief.
她的家人已不能救她，他们在11月飞抵纽约参加了她的葬礼。他们在棺材上洒上白色的雏菊和康乃馨，白色在中国是代表哀伤的颜色。
Then it was time to leave. In his lap, Mr. Zhuo held a photo of his smiling wife and children as the black car pulled away.
接下来，离开的时刻到了。黑色汽车从墓地开出，坐在车里的卓仪林手中捧着一张微笑着的妻子和孩子们的合影。