“Who plants flowers on this crummy street?” protested Carlos, the hero of a young adult novel called “The Street of the Flower Boxes,” which told of the rejuvenation of a trash-strewed, gang-infested block in Manhattan of the 1960s: West 94th Street between Central Park West and Columbus Avenue.
“谁在这条破街上种花？”卡洛斯(Carlos)抗议道。卡洛斯是年轻成人小说《花盆街》(The Street of the Flower Boxes)中的主人公。这部小说讲述了上世纪60年代，曼哈顿一个垃圾遍地、黑帮成灾的街区恢复活力的故事。小说中的街区是位于中央公园西和哥伦布大道之间的西94街。
Carlos was fiction, but the events in the book were based on the real-life experience of its author, Peggy Mann Houlton, who bought a brownstone on that street in 1960 with her husband, William Houlton. The couple paid $18,000 for their home and then spent decades meticulously restoring and nurturing the brownstone and the neighborhood.
卡洛斯是虚构出来，但这本书里的故事却是根据作者佩姬·曼·霍尔顿(Peggy Mann Houlton)的真实经历改编的。1960年，她和丈夫威廉·霍尔顿(William Houlton)买下了那条街上的一栋褐砂石房屋。夫妻俩当时花了1.8万美元（约合11万元人民币），后来用了几十年时间一丝不苟地修缮和打理这栋房屋和周边地区。
Until one day the house began returning the favor.
直到有一天，这栋房屋开始回馈主人。
For nearly 15 years, it has been a high-end rental property, bringing the Houltons’ grown daughters about $14,000 a month in recent years. And now it is a house for sale, with exceptional original detail, a manicured garden and an asking price of nearly $5 million.
在将近15年里，它一直是一处高端出租物业。最近几年，它每月能为霍尔顿夫妇两个已成年的女儿带来大约1.4万美元（约合8.6万元人民币）的收入。如今，它是一处待售房屋，连带出售的还有屋子里大量原汁原味的设计装修细节，以及一个精心打理的花园，要价接近500万美元。
Clearly, the street is not so crummy anymore.
显然，这处房屋所在的街道已不再破败不堪。
“If a passer-by looks closely at the front window of the Houltons’ brownstone at 46 West 94th Street, he can see three bullet holes,” a 1972 article in The New York Times said.
“路人如果走近了看霍尔顿家位于西94街46号的褐砂石房屋的前窗，能看到三个弹孔，”《纽约时报》在1972年的一篇文章说。
“Two of the bullet holes were there when we bought the house,” Ms. Houlton recounted in the article. “One happened after we moved in, during a riot in the street.”
“其中两个弹孔是我们买下房子时就有的，”霍尔顿夫人在那篇文章中回忆说，“另一个弹孔是我们搬进去以后留下的，当时街上发生了一场骚乱。”
Their elder daughter, Jenny, was an infant at the time, the article said, and her mother hid her in a closet to protect her from stray bullets.
那篇文章说，当时他们的大女儿珍妮(Jenny)还是个婴儿，为了避免被流弹所伤，她母亲把她藏在了壁橱里。
Nonetheless, the couple stayed, and the house became the inspiration for something of an urban revival movement. In 1966, Ms. Houlton, whose work appeared under her maiden name, Peggy Mann, published “The Street of the Flower Boxes,” based on her and her husband’s experience encouraging children on their block to assemble, decorate and sell flower boxes to their neighbors, providing a modest yet extraordinarily effective lift to the neighborhood — perhaps shockingly so, to today’s cynical eyes. The book was turned into a television movie of the same name, which won a Peabody Award.
但夫妇俩没有离开，这栋房子也激励了某种城市复兴运动。1966年，霍尔顿夫人用自己婚前的名字佩姬·曼出版了《花盆街》，书中讲的是自己和丈夫的亲身经历，他们鼓励街坊的孩子们收集和装饰花盆，然后卖给邻居，给街区的气氛带来了一种含蓄但极其有效的提升——以今天愤世嫉俗的眼光来看，这种有效程度或许令人震惊。后来，这本书被改编成了同名电视电影，赢得了一项皮博迪奖(Peabody Award)。
The idea was then picked up by Keep America Beautiful, the organization that created the famous crying Indian ad, and turned into a national neighborhood beautification movement and competition. (A 1976 article in The New Yorker about the flower box project described West 94th Street as a place that “didn’t look so swell when flower boxes first appeared there, a few years ago, but is now the sort of block that makes New York City’s detractors sound stupid.”)
随后，这个主意被创作了著名的“哭泣的印第安人”广告的“让美国保持美丽”(Keep America Beautiful)组织采纳，并转变成了一场全国性的社区美化运动和比赛。（《纽约时报》1976年对这个花盆项目进行了报道，文章称西94街这个地方“在几年前花盆刚出现的时候，看上去并不这么美，但现在却成了那种让诋毁纽约的人显得满口胡话的地方了”。）
In 1990, Ms. Houlton died, having written more than 35 books in her 65 years. A few years later, Mr. Houlton had a stroke that left him in need of constant assistance.
1990年，霍尔顿夫人去世。在65年的人生旅程中，她写了至少35本书。几年后，霍尔顿先生经历了一次中风，从此需要有人时刻在身旁照料。
“We didn’t have money for 24-hour care,” said Jennifer Houlton-Vinyl, once the infant daughter in the closet, now with two children of her own. “But what we did have was the house.”
“我们没钱请全天护理，”珍妮弗·霍尔顿-范诺尔(Jennifer Houlton-Vinyl)说，“但我们还有这所房子。”她就是当初被藏在壁橱里的那个婴儿，现在已经是两个孩子的母亲了。
For a few years, the family offered free room and board to a small cast of young men in exchange for shifts taking care of their father, an arrangement that lasted until shortly before Mr. Houlton died.
在好几年时间里，霍尔顿家免费为一小群年轻人提供食宿，交换条件就是这些年轻人要轮流换班照顾霍尔顿先生。这样的安排一直持续到霍尔顿先生离世前不久。
Then, about 15 years ago, the daughters took out a mortgage and remodeled the house. They put in a new kitchen and added a deck to the back garden. They updated the bathrooms and finally replaced the window pocked with bullet holes, which Betsy Houlton Robinson explained cheerfully had been kept “for posterity.” They created a high-end brownstone rental.
于是，在大约15年前，姐妹俩用房子作抵押，对其进行了改造。他们新添了一个厨房，在后花园铺了一层地板。他们还升级了浴室，并终于换掉了有弹孔的那扇窗户。贝齐·霍尔顿·鲁宾逊(Betsy Houlton Robinson)曾兴高采烈地说，那扇窗户是留给“子孙后代”的。他们将房子改造成了一处高端的褐砂石出租物业。
“We’re attached to the house, and it was some way to make money,” Ms. Houlton-Vinyl said of their decision to become a landlord to the wealthy. “I mean, she’s a blacksmith,” she said of her sister, Betsy, who lives in Normandy, “and I’m a writer. So …”
“我们对这座房子是有感情的，这只是一种赚钱的方式，”霍尔顿-范诺尔在说起将房子租给富人的决定时说。“我是说，她是制作铁器的，”她说的是生活在诺曼底的妹妹贝齐，“我是个作家。所以……”
Among their tenants have been bankers and diplomats, and the challenges at that level have been unusual — the diplomats, for example, had trouble figuring out where they would host their large formal dinner parties.
他们的租客中有银行家和外交官，而那种级别的租客带来的挑战是非比寻常的。比如，外交官因为找不到地方举办大型的正式宴会而头疼。
All new residents can also decorate as they choose. The aesthetic of the current tenants could perhaps be best described as “lavish vampire,” with an enthusiasm for dark walls, heavy drapes and, in an upstairs den, what appears to be a monstrous elephant skull. They have even forsaken flower boxes for two conical trees at the top of the stoop.
所有新租客都能随心所欲的装饰房屋。或许，用“奢华的吸血鬼”最能形容现在这些租客的审美。他们热衷于深色的墙、厚重的窗帘，在楼上一个小房间里还要摆一个巨大的象头骨。他们甚至将门廊顶上的花盆换成了两棵锥形的树。
The bones of the house, however, are untouched, and since the house has been sold only three times since it was completed in 1896, a rare trove of original detail is still intact.
然而，房屋的主体框架没有改变。而且因为自1896年建成后只被出售了三次，房屋原来的宝贵细节依然完好无损，这种情况很少见。
“Because they’re paying so much money, it’s a pretty high maintenance job,” Ms. Houlton-Vinyl said. Her husband, Kosmo Vinyl — who, incidentally, was once a manager for a punk rock band, the Clash — acts as the brownstone’s superintendent and has to be available to the tenants more or less around the clock. (In addition to writing, Ms. Houlton-Vinyl works as a receptionist at a law firm, largely so her family can have health insurance, she said.)
“因为他们付了这么多钱，所以维护工作可是不省心，”霍尔顿·范诺尔说。她丈夫卡斯莫·范诺尔(Kosmo Vinyl)曾阴差阳错地当过朋克摇滚乐队碰撞(the Clash)的经纪人。他是这栋褐砂石房屋的管理员，几乎是要随叫随到的。（除了写作，霍尔顿-范诺尔还是一家律所的前台。她说，这么做主要是因为，只有这样家人才能买得起健康保险。）
After nearly 15 years of being more or less on call for their tenants, Ms. Houlton-Vinyl said, she and her husband are ready for a bit more freedom. So the house is for sale, listed with Jane Beal and Rose Ann Nielsen of the Corcoran Group. According to the real estate Web site Streeteasy, its price tag of $4.995 million is just shy of the median sale price for recently sold town houses in the area. The sisters hope the home will have many suitors.
霍尔顿-范诺尔说，在度过了几乎要随叫随到地为租客服务的15年后，她和丈夫已经准备过点更自由的生活了。因此，这栋房屋现在已经在柯尔克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的简·比尔(Jane Beal)和罗丝·安·尼尔森(Rose Ann Nielsen)处挂牌出售。从房地产中介网站Streeteasy上看，这处房屋的499.5万美元售价还不及该地区最近卖出的中等价位联排房屋。姐妹俩希望这栋房屋能有众多意向买家。
“I had a friend compare it to a relationship,” Ms. Houlton Robinson said of the decision to sell the house. “It is sad, but maybe now the lovely lady will have the chance to be in another loving, long-term commitment.”
“我的一个朋友把它比成一段感情，”霍尔顿·鲁宾逊在说起出售房屋的决定时说，“这个决定令人难过，但或许，现在这位可爱的女士有机会开始另外一段充满爱意的长期感情。”