SHANGHAI – James W. Breyer, the venture capitalist who made a fortune with an early bet on Facebook, is putting some of his winnings to work in China, partnering with Beijing-based venture capital firm to invest in Chinese technology start-ups.
上海——因为早期将赌注押在Facebook上而收获丰厚回报的风险投资者詹姆斯·W·布雷耶(James W. Breyer)正在将部分赢利投入中国，与北京的一家风险投资公司合作，投资中国的科技创业公司。
IDG Capital Partners said on Wednesday that Mr. Breyer, a longtime partner at Accel Partners in Palo Alto, Calif., would advise and invest alongside a $586 million IDG fund that closed June 3. The fund is expected to make early stage investments in Chinese technology, media and telecommunication companies.
IDG资本(IDG Capital Partners)周三称，作为加州帕洛阿尔托的阿克塞尔合伙公司(Accel Partners)的长期合伙人，布雷耶将和IDG于6月3日完成募集的一个价值5.86亿美元（约合37亿元人民币）的基金一同投资，并为其提供咨询。这笔资金预计会被用于中国科技、媒体和电信公司的早期投资。
The announcement comes as interest soars in Chinese technology companies after two years of frenzied deal-making, much of it involving China’s Internet giants: Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent. Those three companies alone have spent more than $10 billion buying up start-ups and rivals during the last few years.
此番声明的出现，正值经过两年的疯狂交易后，投资者对中国科技公司的兴趣激增之时。其中大量交易都涉及中国的互联网巨头：阿里巴巴、百度和腾讯。过去几年里，仅这三家公司就已投入超过100亿美元收购创业公司和竞争对手。
And with other technology highfliers here, including JD.com, the Chinese e-commerce company that recently raised $1.78 billion in its New York public listing, China has rapidly become a prime destination for the world’s biggest venture capital and private equity firms. Among the biggest and most active in China are Sequoia Capital, Qiming Ventures, SAIF Partners, IDG Capital Partners and Northern Light Venture Capital.
还有其他一些颇具雄心壮志的科技公司，其中包括京东。作为一家电子商务公司，京东前不久在纽约上市，募集到了17.8亿美元。鉴于此，中国已迅速成为了全世界最大的风险投资公司和私募股本公司的最佳目的地。其中，在中国规模最大、最活跃的公司包括红杉资本(Sequoia Capital)、启明创投(Qiming Ventures)、软银赛富(SAIF Partners)、IDG资本和北极光(Northern Light Venture Capital)。
Mr. Breyer, 53, has been with Accel Partners since 1987. He has said recently that he will remain with Accel but devote more time to his family investment firm, Breyer Capital, and to doing philanthropic work. Last year, he was also elected to the Harvard Corporation, the university’s governing board. He is a Harvard Business School graduate.
现年53岁的布雷耶自1987年起就一直在阿克塞尔合伙公司任职。最近，他表示自己会继续留在阿克塞尔，不过他会把大部分时间贡献给自己家族的投资公司布雷耶资本(Breyer Capital)，同时会做一些慈善工作。去年，他还当选为哈佛大学(Harvard University)的管理委员会哈佛大学校董委员会(Harvard Corporation)的委员。他是哈佛商学院的毕业生。
His relationship with Beijing-based IDG Capital Partners goes back to 2005, when Accel Partners began partnering with IDG to invest in Chinese companies. During that time, the five IDG-Accel Partners funds invested more than $2 billion in China. IDG Capital Partners’ founding general partner is Hugo Shong, who was instrumental in bringing Mr. Breyer in as an investor.
他和北京的IDG资本之间的渊源，可以追溯到2005年，他们在那一年开始合作投资中国企业。当时IDG资本的五只基金在中国投资了20多亿美元。IDG资本的普通创始合伙人是熊晓鸽，他对引荐布雷耶成为该资本的投资人起到了重要作用。
IDG was founded by Patrick McGovern, who died this year. The Boston-based firm established an outpost in China in 1993, the first Chinese venture capital firm. That Beijing-based venture capital firm was an early stage investor in some of China’s biggest technology start-ups, including Baidu, Tencent, Sohu and Ctrip. IDG Capital owns a stake in Xiaomi, the fast-growing Chinese smartphone maker, and once held a stake in 91 Wireless, the app store that was acquired by Baidu last year for $1.9 billion.
IDG的创始人是今年去世的麦戈文(Patrick McGovern)。这家总部位于波士顿的公司于1993年在中国建立了一家分公司，是中国第一家风险投资公司。位于北京的这家风投公司是中国规模最大的一些科技初创企业的早期投资人，包括百度、腾讯、搜狐和携程。IDG资本是小米的股东，后者是一家快速增长的中国智能手机制造商，IDG还曾拥有91无线的股份，这家应用商店去年被百度斥资19亿美元收购。