SAN FRANCISCO — One of Silicon Valley’s most famous venture capital firms prevailed on Friday over a former partner in a closely watched suit claiming gender discrimination, but hardly got away unscathed.
旧金山——周五，硅谷最知名的风投公司在一起备受关注的诉讼案中获胜，但并非毫发无损。一名前合伙人控告该公司存在性别歧视行为。
The plaintiff, Ellen Pao, had accused the firm, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, of discriminating against her in the course of her employment and eventual dismissal.
原告鲍康如(Ellen Pao)控告凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)在她任职期间及最终被解雇之时，存在性别歧视。
The decision handed Kleiner a sweeping victory in a case that had mesmerized Silicon Valley with its salacious details while simultaneously amplifying concerns about the lack of diversity in the technology industry.
该案的一些桃色情节吸引了硅谷的关注，同时也加剧了人们对科技产业中欠缺多样性的担忧。法庭的裁决令凯鹏华盈在这起案件中全面胜诉。
Even with her loss in the case, Ms. Pao’s suit succeeded in prompting debate about women in technology and venture capital, said Deborah Rhode, a law professor at Stanford University.
斯坦福大学(Stanford University)法学教授德博拉·罗德(Deborah Rhode)表示，尽管鲍康如败诉了，但是她的案件成功推动了科技及风投行业中女性角色的讨论。
“This case sends a powerful signal to Silicon Valley in general and the venture capital industry in particular,” Ms. Rhode said. “Defendants who win in court sometimes lose in the world outside it.”
“该案基本上向硅谷，尤其是风投行业，发出了一个强有力的信号，”罗德说。“在法院上成为赢家的被告，有时在法庭外会变成输家。”
Kleiner and its lawyers did little to celebrate the win, with the lawyer Lynne C. Hermle saying that it “never occurred to me for a second that a careful and attentive jury like this would find either discrimination or retaliation.” Kleiner issued a statement saying it was committed to supporting women.
凯鹏华盈及其律师没有庆祝胜利。律师琳内·C·赫尔姆勒(Lynne C. Hermle)表示，“我从来没想过，一个如此谨慎细心的陪审团，会认定存在歧视或报复行为。”凯鹏华盈发布声明称，该公司致力于支持女性。
Ms. Pao waved to the jury as she left the courtroom for the last time, a smile fixed on her face. “If I’ve helped to level the playing field for women and minorities in venture capital, then the battle was worth it,” she said in a brief news conference.
鲍康如最后离开法庭时向陪审团挥了挥手，脸上挂着微笑。她在简短的新闻发布会上表示，“如果我在一定程度上为风投行业的女性和少数族裔赢得了公平竞争的环境，那这场斗争就是值得的。”
Her suit, filed in Superior Court here, claimed that Kleiner did not promote her because of her gender, that it retaliated against her for complaining, that it failed to prevent gender discrimination and that it fired her in 2012 for complaining.
鲍康如在旧金山的最高法院提起诉讼，称凯鹏华盈因为自己的性别而没有提拔她，还在她提出投诉后对她进行了报复，该公司未能阻止性别歧视行为，并于2012年因为她进行投诉而将其解雇。
The suit asked $16 million in compensatory damages plus punitive damages. Ms. Pao is now interim chief of the social media news site Reddit.
该诉讼要求获得1600万美元（约合9900万元人民币）的补偿性赔偿和惩罚性赔偿。鲍康如现在担任社交媒体新闻网站Reddit的临时首席执行官。
After the jurors rejected each of her four claims, they were found to be one vote short on a claim about her termination. For two hours, doubt reigned, the media unspooled possible outcomes and the jury went back to work. In the end, the problem seemed more juror confusion than anything else, and the claim went down with the others.
在陪审团驳回了她提出的所有四项指控后，陪审团以一票之差，无法就涉及解雇一事的一项指控做出裁定。在之后两个小时的时间里，充斥着各种疑问，媒体开始猜测可能出现的结果，陪审团又回去继续讨论。最终，问题似乎只是陪审团内部的困惑，这项指控和其他指控一同被驳回了。
The jurors said in interviews they did not take on the role of “conscience of this community,” as one of Ms. Pao’s lawyers had urged in the closing arguments. They focused on the facts at hand, and concluded it was Ms. Pao’s own performance that held her back.
陪审员在接受采访时表示，他们不会像鲍康如的一名律师在发表结案陈词时要求的那样，扮演“社会的良心”。他们关注于眼前的事实，并断定是鲍康如自己的表现，阻碍了她的事业发展。
One juror, Steve Sammut, 62, said it was difficult coming to a verdict.
62岁的陪审员史蒂夫·萨马特(Steve Sammut)表示，做出判决的过程很困难。
“We were split there for a while,” he said, adding that a key point was how Ms. Pao’s reviews at Kleiner deteriorated over time. He also said the witnesses for Kleiner, most of whom came from the firm, helped seal the case.
他说，“我们一度出现了分歧。”他又表示，关键在于凯鹏华盈对鲍康如的评估是为什么变得越来越差的。他还说，凯鹏华盈方面的证人对于案件的结案起到了帮助。这些证人大都来自该公司内部。
Another juror, Marshalette Ramsey, 41, said she believed Ms. Pao was discriminated against. The male junior partners at Kleiner “had those same character flaws that Ellen was cited with,” but they were promoted, she said.
另一名陪审员，41岁的马沙利特·拉姆齐(Marshalette Ramsey)表示，她认为鲍康如遭到了歧视。她表示，他们声称鲍康如存在性格缺陷，但凯鹏华盈资历较低的男性合伙人“也存在与鲍康如类似的性格缺陷”，但他们得到了晋升。
“I’m going home emotional,” said Ms. Ramsey.
拉姆齐表示，“我会带着情绪回家。”
Ms. Pao joined Kleiner in 2005 as chief of staff to John Doerr, the firm’s best-known partner. She became a junior investing partner, failed to make senior partner and was fired in 2012.
鲍康如于2005年加入凯鹏华盈，担任该公司最知名合伙人约翰·德尔(John Doerr)的办公室主任。之后她成为了一名初级投资合伙人，但没能晋升为高级合伙人。接着她在2012年被解雇。
It was the most prominent trial in Silicon Valley in memory for many reasons, including Kleiner Perkins’s reputation as the quintessential venture capital firm. But the suit, filed in 2012, also came as the freewheeling ways of the male-dominated technology industry increasingly drew scrutiny.
这是硅谷让人铭记的最受关注的审判，它受关注的原因有很多，比如凯鹏华盈作为一家出色风投公司的声誉。但鲍康如在2012年提起诉讼之时，以男性为主导的科技行业里，无所顾忌的行为方式也正在受到越来越多的关注。
Episodes of men behaving badly make the news frequently here, whether it is sexism or harassment in the workplace or just derogatory attitudes toward women. Critics are increasingly drawing a straight line between such behavior and the small percentage of women who are engineers and executives, and the even smaller percentage of women who are venture capitalists.
男性的不端行为经常成为新闻，无论是工作场合的性别歧视还是性骚扰，抑或对女性的贬损态度。批评人士越来越多地认为，女性担任工程师或高管的比例很小，女性风险投资家的比例更小的现象，与上述行为之间存在关联。
According to research from Babson College, the percentage of female venture capitalists is 6 percent, down from 10 percent at the peak of the dot-com boom in 1999.
根据巴布森学院(Babson College)的研究，女风险投资家的比例是6%，与1999年互联网热潮当中10%的比例相比出现了下降。
The suit and the trial introduced a number of colorful phrases that were said to have been uttered to or about Ms. Pao. Most were heavily disputed by the defense, but they made it appear that Kleiner has been slow to evolve since it was formed in the early 1970s.
此次诉讼和审理过程中，曝光了很多不雅的词句，据称这些话要么是对鲍康如说的，要么是对她的评价。辩方对其中大部分词句都极力辩驳，但从他们的辩护来看，凯鹏华盈自上世纪70年代初成立以来，转变的速度比较缓慢。
“Kleiner Perkins has been significantly tainted by the facts that have come out in this proceedings,” Ms. Rhode of Stanford said.
斯坦福大学的罗德说，“这场诉讼过程中揭露的事实，对凯鹏华盈造成了极大损害。”
During the trial, numerous details emerged, including Mr. Doerr’s telling an investigator that Ms. Pao had a “female chip on her shoulder.” Chi-Hua Chien, a partner, said women should not be invited to a dinner with former Vice President Al Gore because they “kill the buzz.” A senior partner at the time, Ray Lane, joked to a junior partner that she should be “flattered” that a colleague showed up at her hotel room door wearing only a bathrobe. Another senior partner, Ted Schlein, seemed never to have heard of the exhortation of Sheryl Sandberg, a senior Facebook executive, that women should “sit at the table,” testifying, “I really don’t think it was a very big deal to us who sits at a table or who does not.”
案件审理过程中，大量细节浮出水面。多尔曾告诉一名调查人员，鲍康如的“肩膀上装着一枚女性芯片”。合伙人钱智华(Chi-Hua Chien)说，不应该邀请女性与前副总统阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)共进晚餐，因为她们“很扫兴”。当时的高级合伙人雷·莱恩(Ray Lane)对一名低级合伙人开玩笑说，同事只裹着浴袍来到她酒店房间门口时，她应该感到“受宠若惊”。另一名高级合伙人特德·施莱因(Ted Schlein)似乎从未听说过Facebook高管谢莉尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)的劝诫——女人应该“坐在桌前”参与决策。施莱因在证词中称，“我真的不认为，谁坐在桌前谁不在，是一件很重要的事。”
Ms. Pao is married to Alphonse Fletcher Jr., a Wall Street financier whose hedge fund is bankrupt. Pension funds are suing to recover their money amid accusations of fraud. Kleiner tried to insert Mr. Fletcher into the case, which would have raised questions about Ms. Pao’s motives in bringing suit, but Judge Kahn refused to allow it.
鲍康如的丈夫小阿方斯·弗莱彻(Alphonse Fletcher Jr.)是华尔街的一名基金经理，他的对冲基金已经破产。几家养老基金提起诉讼，希望能追回资金，此外弗莱彻还面临着欺诈指控。凯鹏华盈试图把弗莱彻拉进此案——这将使人对鲍康如提起诉讼的动机产生疑问——但是被法官哈罗德·卡恩(Harold Kahn)拒绝了。
Mr. Fletcher did not attend the trial.
弗莱彻没有出席审判。
In a sign that the struggle over the place of women in Silicon Valley is only beginning, gender discrimination suits have recently been filed against two prominent companies, Facebook and Twitter.
最近，著名企业Facebook和Twitter纷纷受到性别歧视指控，这表明关于硅谷女性地位的斗争才刚刚开始。
The suit against Twitter, by a former engineer, Tina Huang, claims that the process for promotion is not clear and is biased in favor of men, a claim that Ms. Pao also made about Kleiner. The suit seeks class-action status. Twitter said in a statement that it was committed “to a diverse and supportive workplace.”
前工程师蒂娜·黄(Tina Huang)在对Twitter提起的诉讼中称，提升过程不明确，而且偏袒男性。鲍康如也对凯鹏华盈提出了类似指控。蒂娜·黄希望起诉Twitter的案件能归类为集体诉讼。Twitter在声明中称，公司致力于创造“多元且为员工提供支持的工作环境”。
The suit against Facebook is narrower. Chia Hong, a former manager, says she was “discriminated against, harassed, and retaliated against” because of her sex and race, culminating in her termination. Ms. Hong is represented by Lawless & Lawless, one of the firms representing Ms. Pao. Facebook has said that it works “extremely hard” on diversity and believes that it treated the employee in question fairly.
针对Facebook提起的诉讼中涉及的指控较少。前管理人员洪嘉（Chia Hong，音）称，因为自己的性别和种族，她“遭到了歧视、骚扰和报复”，这些遭遇以她被解雇而告终。代理洪嘉的是Lawless & Lawless律师事务所，该律所也是代理鲍康如案件的律所之一。Facebook称，公司在多样性方面做出了“非常大”的努力，而且认为对待该名员工的方式是公平的。
The Kleiner trial, which took 24 days before it went to the jury on Wednesday, offered a glimpse of the Silicon Valley elite at work and play.
在周三交由陪审团裁决之前，凯鹏华盈案的审理已经花了24天。案件的细节让人得以一瞥硅谷精英工作和玩乐时的状态。
Ms. Pao accidentally learned about the dinner Mr. Gore was having because she was living in the same San Francisco building. She met Mr. Fletcher at an exclusive fellowship that Mr. Doerr recommended her for. Even after being fired by Kleiner in 2012, Ms. Pao was paid $33,333 a month for the next six months, plus benefits and bonus. Most Americans could never imagine such handsome remuneration, terminated or not.
鲍康如之所以会无意间得知戈尔的晚宴，是因为她住在旧金山的同一栋楼里。她在多尔推荐她参加的一场私人聚会上遇到了弗莱彻。2012年在被凯鹏华盈解雇后，鲍康如在接下来的六个月里，每月仍可以获得33333美元，此外还有福利和奖金。不管是否在任，大多数美国人永远也无法想象如此丰厚的报酬。
But it was competitive and even combative, with sharp elbows and tears. Ms. Pao, it emerged in testimony, compiled a “resentment” chart of colleagues who, she believed, wronged her. People worked through holidays and maternity leaves. The pressure to discover the newest new thing was immense. One great investment — a Google, a Facebook, an Amazon — could make your reputation for life.
但是，这里仍然到处都是竞争乃至斗争，有人受到排挤，有人黯然垂泪。证词显示，鲍康如列了一个关于同事的“憎恶”表，她认为上面的人都曾待她不善。人们会在假期和休产假期间工作，因为发现下一个新项目的压力非常大。一笔明智的投资，比如谷歌(Google)、Facebook和亚马逊(Amazon)，就足以奠定你这辈子的名声。