When Max Kelly, the chief security officer for Facebook, left the social media company in 2010, he did not go to Google, Twitter or a similar Silicon Valley concern. Instead the man who was responsible for protecting the personal information of Facebook’s more than one billion users from outside attacks went to work for another giant institution that manages and analyzes large pools of data: the National Security Agency.
Facebook首席安全官马克斯·凯利(Max Kelly)于2010年离开这家社交媒体公司之后，没有加入谷歌(Google)、Twitter或类似的硅谷公司。相反地，这位曾负责保护Facebook超过10亿用户的个人信息免受外部攻击的高管，去了另一家要管理和分析大量数据的巨型机构就职，那就是美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）。
Mr. Kelly’s move to the spy agency, which has not previously been reported, underscores the increasingly deep connections between Silicon Valley and the agency and the degree to which they are now in the same business. Both hunt for ways to collect, analyze and exploit large pools of data about millions of Americans.
凯利转投这家情报机构的事之前从未曝光，它突显了硅谷和NSA之间越来越深入的联系，以及两者业务重合的程度。两者都在寻找途径收集、分析和利用涉及数以百万计美国人的大量数据。
The only difference is that the N.S.A. does it for intelligence, and Silicon Valley does it to make money.
它们唯一的区别是，NSA这么做是为了情报，而硅谷这么做是为了赚钱。
The disclosure of the spy agency’s program called Prism, which is said to collect the e-mails and other Web activity of foreigners using major Internet companies like Google, Yahoo and Facebook, has prompted the companies to deny that the agency has direct access to their computers, even as they acknowledge complying with secret N.S.A. court orders for specific data.
NSA的这项计划名为“棱镜”(Prism)，它收集谷歌、雅虎(Yahoo)和Facebook等大型互联网公司的外国用户的电子邮件和其他网络活动信息，该计划披露之后，这些公司纷纷否认NSA能直接进入他们的电脑系统，尽管他们同时也承认，他们会配合NSA从法院获取的秘密判令，提供特定数据。
Yet technology experts and former intelligence officials say the convergence between Silicon Valley and the N.S.A. and the rise of data mining — both as an industry and as a crucial intelligence tool — have created a more complex reality.
不过，技术专家和前情报官员表示，硅谷和NSA的融合以及数据挖掘的兴起——作为一个行业和一种至关重要的情报工具——已经创造了一个更加复杂的现实局面。
Silicon Valley has what the spy agency wants: vast amounts of private data and the most sophisticated software available to analyze it. The agency in turn is one of Silicon Valley’s largest customers for what is known as data analytics, one of the valley’s fastest-growing markets. To get their hands on the latest software technology to manipulate and take advantage of large volumes of data, United States intelligence agencies invest in Silicon Valley start-ups, award classified contracts and recruit technology experts like Mr. Kelly.
硅谷有NSA想要的东西：大量个人数据和可用于分析这些数据的最先进的软件。相应地，NSA是硅谷在数据分析业务领域最大的客户之一，而该领域又是硅谷增长最快的市场之一。为了掌握最新的软件技术，用以操纵和利用大量数据，美国的情报机构投资硅谷的创业公司，和它们签署获取机密信息的合同，还雇佣像凯利这样的技术专家。
“We are all in these Big Data business models,” said Ray Wang, a technology analyst and chief executive of Constellation Research, based in San Francisco. “There are a lot of connections now because the data scientists and the folks who are building these systems have a lot of common interests.”
位于旧金山的星座研究公司(Constellation Research)首席执行官兼技术分析师雷·王(Ray Wang)说，“我们都身处这种大数据商业模式中。如今，由于数据科学家和建立这些系统的人之间存在大量的共同利益，因此两者之间存在着千丝万缕的联系。”
Although Silicon Valley has sold equipment to the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies for a generation, the interests of the two began to converge in new ways in the last few years as advances in computer storage technology drastically reduced the costs of storing enormous amounts of data — at the same time that the value of the data for use in consumer marketing began to rise. “These worlds overlap,” said Philipp S. Krüger, chief executive of Explorist, an Internet start-up in New York.
硅谷一直将设备出售给NSA和其他情报机构，不过直到过去的几年，随着计算机存储技术的进步，存储大量数据的成本大大降低了，同时，用于消费市场的数据开始升值，两者的利益才开始以新的方式融合。纽约一家互联网创业公司Explorist的首席执行官菲利普·S·克吕格尔(Philipp S. Krüger)说，“这些领域是重合的。”
The sums the N.S.A. spends in Silicon Valley are classified, as is the agency’s total budget, which independent analysts say is $8 billion to $10 billion a year.
NSA在硅谷的资金投入和它的总预算都属于机密信息，独立分析人士说，该局一年的总预算为80亿（约合490亿元人民币）到100亿美元。
Despite the companies’ assertions that they cooperate with the agency only when legally compelled, current and former industry officials say the companies sometimes secretly put together teams of in-house experts to find ways to cooperate more completely with the N.S.A. and to make their customers’ information more accessible to the agency. The companies do so, the officials say, because they want to control the process themselves. They are also under subtle but powerful pressure from the N.S.A. to make access easier.
尽管这些公司坚称，他们只在法律的强制下才与NSA合作，可是前任及现任情报官员都说，有时候，这些公司会秘密地组建内部专家团队，由他们寻找途径与NSA进行更全面的合作，使NSA更易取得它们的客户信息。官员们说，公司之所以这么做，是因为他们想在这个过程中占据主动。他们还受到来自NSA隐晦而强大的压力，要求更容易地获取数据。
Skype, the Internet-based calling service, began its own secret program, Project Chess, to explore the legal and technical issues in making Skype calls readily available to intelligence agencies and law enforcement officials, according to people briefed on the program who asked not to be named to avoid trouble with the intelligence agencies.
基于互联网的通话服务公司Skype启动了它自己的秘密计划，据了解计划的人士透露，该计划名为“国际象棋计划”(Project Chess)，目的是探索法律和技术问题，使Skype通话信息能更便利地供情报机构和执法官员使用。为了避免情报机构追究，这些人要求匿名。
Project Chess, which has never been previously disclosed, was small, limited to fewer than a dozen people inside Skype, and was developed as the company had sometimes contentious talks with the government over legal issues, said one of the people briefed on the project. The project began about five years ago, before most of the company was sold by its parent, eBay, to outside investors in 2009. Microsoft acquired Skype in an $8.5 billion deal that was completed in October 2011.
“国际象棋计划”之前从未被披露过，其中一名了解该计划的人士透露，它的规模不大，Skype内部只有几个人了解情况，开发的过程中公司偶尔会和政府就法律问题发生争吵。2009年，Skype的母公司eBay把它的大部分股份出售给了外部投资者，而该计划大约始于五年前，是在出售之前进行的。2011年10月，微软(Microsoft)以85亿美元收购了Skype。
A Skype executive denied last year in a blog post that recent changes in the way Skype operated were made at the behest of Microsoft to make snooping easier for law enforcement. It appears, however, that Skype figured out how to cooperate with the intelligence community before Microsoft took over the company, according to documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, a former contractor for the N.S.A. One of the documents about the Prism program made public by Mr. Snowden says Skype joined Prism on Feb. 6, 2011.
去年，一位Skype的高管在一篇博客文章中否认，Skype近来在运营方式上的改变是根据微软的要求做出的，是为了让执法部门更容易监听。然而，根据NSA前外包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露出的文件显示，Skype在被微软接手前就已经找到了与情报部门的合作方式。斯诺登公布的其中一份有关棱镜计划的文件显示，Skype于2011年2月6日加入了棱镜计划。
Microsoft executives are no longer willing to affirm statements, made by Skype several years ago, that Skype calls could not be wiretapped. Frank X. Shaw, a Microsoft spokesman, declined to comment.
Skype几年前曾宣布，它的通话是不能被窃听的，但微软的高管们已不再愿意确认这一说法。微软公司的一位发言人弗兰克·X·肖(Frank X. Shaw)拒绝对此发表评论。
In its recruiting in Silicon Valley, the N.S.A. sends some of its most senior officials to lure the best of the best. No less than Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the agency’s director and the chief of the Pentagon’s Cyber Command, showed up at one of the world’s largest hacker conferences in Las Vegas last summer, looking stiff in an uncharacteristic T-shirt and jeans, to give the keynote speech. His main purpose at Defcon, the conference, was to recruit hackers for his spy agency.
NSA为了在硅谷的招聘工作派遣了一些最高级别的官员，以吸引最顶尖的人才。去年夏天，NSA局长、国防部网战司令部(Cyber Command)司令基思·B·亚历山大(Keith B. Alexander)将军这样的重要人物出现在拉斯维加斯，参加世界最大规模的一次黑客会议。他身着和他身份不符的T恤衫和牛仔裤，发表了主题演讲，看起来神色僵硬。他参加这次名为Defcon的会议的主要目的就是为他的情报机构招揽黑客人才。
N.S.A. badges are often seen on the lapels of officials at other technology and information security conferences. “They’re very open about their interest in recruiting from the hacker community,” said Jennifer Granick, the director of civil liberties at Stanford Law School’s Center for Internet and Society.
在其他一些技术和信息安全会议上，也时常能见到翻领上别着NSA徽章的官员。“他们毫不掩饰从黑客群体中招募人才的兴趣，”斯坦福法学院(Stanford Law School)互联网与社会中心(Center for Internet and Society)公民自由领域的负责人珍妮弗·格拉尼克(Jennifer Granick)说。
But perhaps no one embodies the tightening relationship between the N.S.A. and the valley more than Kenneth A. Minihan.
然而，或许没有哪一位能像肯尼思·A·米尼汉(Kenneth A. Minihan)那样，如此完美地体现出NSA和硅谷之间日益紧密的关系。
A career Air Force intelligence officer, Mr. Minihan was the director of the N.S.A. during the Clinton administration until his retirement in the late 1990s, and then he ran the agency’s outside professional networking organization. Today he is managing director of Paladin Capital Group, a venture capital firm based in Washington that in part specializes in funding start-ups that offer high-tech solutions for the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies. In effect, Mr. Minihan is an advanced scout for the N.S.A. as it tries to capitalize on the latest technology to analyze and exploit the vast amounts of data flowing around the world and inside the United States.
米尼汉为美国空军(Air Force)情报官员，在克林顿执政期间曾任NSA局长，直到20世纪90年代末退休，后来他曾负责NSA外设的专业网络组织。如今，他是一家位于华盛顿的风险投资公司帕拉丁资本集团(Paladin Capital Group)的董事总经理。这家公司的业务包括资助那些为NSA和其他情报机构提供高科技解决方案的创业公司。实际上，在NSA尝试利用最新科技来分析和利用流动在世界各地和美国国内的大量数据的过程中，米尼汉起到了一名高级伯乐的作用。
The members of Paladin’s strategic advisory board include Richard C. Schaeffer Jr., a former N.S.A. executive. While Paladin is a private firm, the American intelligence community has its own in-house venture capital company, In-Q-tel, financed by the Central Intelligence Agency to invest in high-tech start-ups.
帕拉丁的战略顾问团队包括了前NSA高级官员小理查德·C·谢弗(Richard C. Schaeffer Jr.)。帕拉丁是一家私营公司，然而美国的情报部门也有自己的风险投资公司In-Q-tel，它由中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA）出资，专门投资科技创业公司。
Many software technology firms involved in data analytics are open about their connections to intelligence agencies. Gary King, a co-founder and chief scientist at Crimson Hexagon, a start-up in Boston, said in an interview that he had given talks at C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va., about his company’s social media analytics tools.
很多涉及数据分析的软件科技公司都毫不避讳它们与情报机构的联系。Crimson Hexagon是一家波士顿的创业公司，它的联合创始人和首席科学家加里·金(Gary King)在接受采访时表示，他曾经在弗吉尼亚州兰利的CIA总部谈论他们公司的社交媒体分析工具。
The future holds the prospect of ever greater cooperation between Silicon Valley and the N.S.A. because data storage is expected to increase at an annual compound rate of 53 percent through 2016, according to the International Data Corporation.
根据国际数据资讯公司(International Data Corporation)的分析，硅谷和NSA未来开展的合作可能会越来越广泛深入，因为据估计，到2016年，数据存储的年均复合增长率将达53%。
“We reached a tipping point, where the value of having user data rose beyond the cost of storing it,” noted Dan Auerbach, a technology analyst with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an electronic privacy group in San Francisco. “Now we have an incentive to keep it forever.”
“我们已经到了一个转折点，获取用户数据的价值超出了存储这些数据的花费，”旧金山的电子前沿基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)的科技分析师丹·奥尔巴克(Dan Auerbach)指出。“如今，我们有动力永远保留这些数据。”
Social media sites in the meantime are growing as voluntary data mining operations on a scale that rivals or exceeds anything the government could attempt on its own. “You willingly hand over data to Facebook that you would never give voluntarily to the government,” said Bruce Schneier, a technologist and author.
与此同时，社交媒体网站不断增加，而自愿的数据挖掘操作规模已经可以匹敌政府本身的能力，甚至超过了它。“你会乐意将数据交给Facebook，却永远不会主动交给政府，”技术专家和作家布鲁斯·施奈尔(Bruce Schneier)说。