PALO ALTO, Calif. — These are fabulous times in Silicon Valley.
加利福尼亚州帕洛阿尔托——眼下是硅谷大放异彩的时节。
Mere youths, who in another era would just be graduating from college or perhaps wondering what to make of their lives, are turning down deals that would make them and their great-grandchildren wealthy beyond imagining. They are confident that even better deals await.
他们不过是一群小青年，换在别的年代，他们可能刚刚要从大学毕业，或者也许正在思考该如何度过这一生，然而现在他们却对价值连城的收购合约不屑一顾，哪怕这样的交易会让他们和他们的曾孙辈都富得超乎想象。他们有信心还会出现更好的合约。
“Man, it feels more and more like 1999 every day,” tweeted Bill Gurley, one of the valley’s leading venture capitalists. “Risk is being discounted tremendously.”
“好家伙，每一天都觉得越来越像是1999年，”比尔·格利(Bill Gurley)在Twitter上写道，他是硅谷最知名的风险投资人之一。“风险被大打折扣。”
That was in May, shortly after his firm, Benchmark, led a $13.5 million investment in Snapchat, the disappearing-photo site that has millions of adolescent users but no revenue.
那是5月，他的公司基准投资(Benchmark)刚刚主导了一轮对Snapchat的投资，总额达1350万美元（约合8200万元人民币）。Snapchat提供“阅后即焚”的照片传送服务，有数百万的青少年用户，但却没有一分钱的收入。
Snapchat, all of two years old, just turned down a multibillion-dollar deal from Facebook and, perhaps, an even bigger deal from Google. On paper, that would mean a fortyfold return on Benchmark’s investment in less than a year.
成立不过两年的Snapchat刚刚拒绝了Facebook开出的一份价值数十亿的收购合约，还有一份来自谷歌(Google)的，开价可能还要高。理论上来说，这意味着在不到一年的时间里，基准投资的资金取得了40倍的收益。
Benchmark is the venture capital darling of the moment, a backer not only of Snapchat but the photo-sharing app Instagram (sold for $1 billion to Facebook), the ride-sharing service Uber (valued at $3.5 billion) and Twitter ($22 billion), among many others. Ten of its companies have gone public in the last two years, with another half-dozen on the way. Benchmark seems to have a golden touch.
基准投资如今在风险投资界正当红，它不仅为Snapchat提供了资金，还为照片分享应用Instagram（以10亿美元的价格出售给Facebook）、拼车服务Uber（估值为35亿美元）、Twitter（220亿美元）等公司注资。在过去两年，它投资的公司中已有10家上市，还有另外六七家正准备上市。基准投资似乎掌握了点金术。
That is generating a huge amount of attention and an undercurrent of concern. In Silicon Valley, it may not be 1999 yet, but that fateful year — a moment when no one thought there was any risk to the wildest idea — can be seen on the horizon, drifting closer.
这一点正引起许多的关注以及一阵隐隐的担忧。现在的硅谷也许还谈不上1999年重现，但那灾难性的一年——在当时，即使最漫无边际的想法都没人会觉得有什么风险——已经出现在地平线上，离我们越来越近。
No one here would really mind another 1999, of course. As a legendary Silicon Valley bumper sticker has it, “Please God, just one more bubble.” But booms are inevitably followed by busts.
当然，这里没人真的介意再来一次1999。硅谷有一张著名的车贴标语是这样写的：“求您了上帝，再来一个泡泡。”但繁荣之后这个泡泡势必是要破的。
“All business activity is driven by either fear or greed, and in Silicon Valley we’re in a cycle where greed may be on the rise,” said Josh Green, a venture capitalist who is chairman of the National Venture Capital Association.
美国国家投资风险协会(National Venture Capital Association)主席、风险投资家乔希·格林(Josh Green)说，“所有商业活动背后的驱动力不是恐惧就是贪婪，而在硅谷，贪婪可能正处在上升期。”
For Benchmark, that means walking a narrow line between hyping the future — second nature to everyone in Silicon Valley — and overhyping it.
对基准投资来说，这就意味着要谨小慎微地前行，既要推高未来——这是硅谷里每一个人的秉性——又不能过分推高未来。
Opinions differ here about exactly what stage of exuberance the valley is in. “Everyone feels like the valley has been in a boom cycle for quite some time,” said Jeremy Stoppelman, the chief executive of Yelp. “That makes people nervous.”
至于硅谷究竟处于繁荣期的哪一个阶段，此地也有不同的意见。Yelp的首席执行官杰里米·斯托普尔曼(Jeremy Stoppelman)说，“每个人都觉得，硅谷的繁荣期已经持续了相当长一段时间了。这让人们感到不安。”
John Backus, a founding partner with New Atlantic Ventures, says he believes it is more like 1996: Things are just ramping up.
新大西洋风投(New Atlantic Ventures)的创始合伙人约翰·巴克斯(John Backus)说，他相信现在更像是1996年：一切都蒸蒸日上。
The numbers back him up. In 2000, just as the dot-com party was ending, a record number of venture capitalists invested a record amount of money in a record number of deals. Entrepreneurs received over $100 billion, a tenfold rise in dollars deployed in just four years.
相关数字也证明了他的观点。2000年，当那场互联网盛宴开始散去，风险投资家的人数、他们参与的交易数和投入的资金额都创下了记录。创业者获得了1000多亿美元的资金，仅仅四年里就涨了10倍。
Much of the money disappeared. So, eventually, did many of the entrepreneurs and most of the venture capitalists.
其中许多资金就蒸发了。许多创业者和多数风险投资家最后也都从此销声匿迹。
Recovery was fitful. Even with the stock market soaring since the recession, venture money invested fell in 2012 from 2011, and then fell again in the first half of this year. Predictions of the death of venture capital have been plentiful.
而复苏却时断时续。虽然经济萧条以来股市持续走高，2012年投入的风险资金却较2011年有所下降，而且今年前6个月继续走低。许多人预测风险投资将走向末路。
For one thing, it takes a lot less money to start a company now than it did in 1999. When apps like Instagram and Snapchat catch on, they do so in a matter of months. V.C.’s are no longer quite as essential, and they know it. Just last week, Tim Draper, a third-generation venture capitalist with Draper Fisher Jurvetson, said he was skipping the next fund to devote his time to his academy for young entrepreneurs.
一个原因是，比较1999年，如今开一家公司的投入要少得多。像Instagram、Snapchat这样的应用，只需几个月的时间就引起了许多人的注意。风险投资不再那么至关重要了，他们也都知道这一点。仅仅上周，第三代风险投资、德丰杰(Draper Fisher Jurvetson)公司的蒂姆·德雷珀(Tim Draper)表示，他下一步不会继续投资，而是将主要精力放在他培养年轻企业家的学院。
But there are signs of life. Funding in the third quarter suddenly popped, up 17 percent from 2012. “I think this is the best time we’ve seen since 1999 to be a venture capitalist,” Mr. Backus said. He expects the returns on venture capital, which have been miserable since the bust, to greatly improve this year.
但我们也看到了发展的迹象。第三季度的资金投入突然增加，较2012年同比增长17%。“我想，这是我们所见的1999年后风险投资家的最好时光，”巴克斯说。自上一轮泡沫破裂之后，风投的收益一直不佳，但他认为今年的形势将大大改善。
“Everyone talks about the mega win — who was in Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest,” he said. “But the bread and butter of venture firms is not those multibillion exits but the $200 million deals, and there are a lot of those.” As an example he pointed to GlobalLogic, which operates design and engineering centers. It was acquired in October in a deal that returned $75 million on New Atlantic’s $5 million investment.
“大家都在讨论当年投了Facebook、Twitter及Pinterest的那些大赢家，”他说。“但风险公司的收入不能靠那些价值数十亿的投资退出，而是来自于那些2亿美元的交易，后者有很多。”他以从事设计及工程中心运营的GlobalLogic作为例子。该公司在今年10月被收购，使得新大西洋风投的500万美元投资获得了7500万美元的收益。
Better returns would influence pension firms and other big investors to give more money to the V.C.’s, which would in term increase the number of deals.
较好的收益会促使养老金管理公司及其他大型投资商向风险投资公司注入更多资金，这又会带动交易数量的增加。
“I would be really scared if all of sudden the industry raised $100 billion,” Mr. Backus said. “But I don’t know how you can stop that. The greed factor kicks in. Everyone wants a piece of action.”
“如果业内突然一下子募集了1000亿美元，那我真的要恐慌了，”巴克斯说。“但我不知道如何能阻止这种势头。贪婪的因素开始发挥作用。每个人都想分一点甜头。”
Benchmark is putting together a new investment fund. Given its recent track record, it could easily raise $1 billion from its limited partners. Instead, it will keep the fund to its usual size, $425 million. That is a hallmark of the discipline that has attended Benchmark since its founding in 1995. While other V.C. firms have bulked up, offering more services to entrepreneurs, Benchmark has stayed lean.
基准投资正在组合一支新的投资基金。鉴于最近取得的成绩，它可以轻而易举地通过有限责任合作人那里筹得10亿美元。但公司却将基金保持在正常规模——4.25亿美元。这是基准投资自1995年成立以来一直遵守的独特原则。其他风险投资公司的规模不断壮大，为创业者提供更多服务，但基准投资一直保持其精简的形式。
Its founding partners did not put their name on the door, a way of stressing that all were equal and would share in the profits equally. For Silicon Valley venture capitalists, this was a radical move. A rival venture capitalist told an industry publication that this was “communism.”
公司的创始合伙人没有把自己的名字放到招牌里去，以此来强调人人平等、利润均分。对于硅谷的风险投资家来说，这是一种不同寻常的做法。一名与之有竞争关系的风险投资家对一家行业杂志表示，这是“共产主义”。
Benchmark’s first fund quoted Voltaire: “God is not on the side of the big arsenals, but on the side of those who shoot best.” Its great dot-com hit was eBay, which was considered at the time the greatest venture capital success ever. In Randall Stross’s fly-on-the-wall 2000 book, “eBoys,” the partners are depicted as hardworking, smart and making it up as they go along, in the best venture capital tradition.
基准投资第一支基金引用了伏尔泰(Voltaire)的话：“上帝不是站在火力最猛的一方，而是站在枪法最好的一方。”基准投资最成功的网络投资是eBay，这在当时被视为有史以来最成功的风险投资。兰德尔·斯特罗斯(Randall Stross)以自己的暗中观察写就了2000年出版的《硅谷教父》(eBoys)。他在书中称这些合伙人勤奋、聪明，还善于即兴发挥，这是最好的风险投资传统。
Now the partners are mostly different, but the one-for-all and all-for-one philosophy is the same, and the hits have kept coming.
如今的合伙人们已经大为不同，但我为人人、人人为我的理念是一样的，成功也就接踵而至。
Mr. Gurley, perhaps the best known of the partners at Benchmark, declined to be interviewed, as did the other partners, a spokeswoman said. But the executives of their portfolio companies were eager to discuss their skills.
格利或许是基准投资最有名的合伙人，一名女发言人表示，他和其他合伙人都拒绝接受采访。而他们投资的那些公司的高管们则很乐于探讨他们的技巧。
Jess Lee, the chief executive of the shopping site Polyvore, said that Peter Fenton, the Benchmark partner on her board, was always encouraging long-term thinking.
购物网站Polyvore的首席执行官李洁丝(Jess Lee)表示，公司董事会成员、基准投资合伙人彼得·芬顿(Peter Fenton)一直鼓励多作长远考虑。
“He wants us to focus on building the most impactful, sustainable business — an organization that lasts, versus take the best offer you can now,” said Ms. Lee in a phone interview from a Goldman Sachs conference in Las Vegas.
在洛杉矶参加高盛(Goldman Sachs)会议的李洁丝接受电话采访时表示，“他希望我们侧重打造最具影响力的、可持续的业务，一个能够持久的组织，而不是着眼于眼前的最大利益。”
When the Snapchat news was breaking, Mr. Gurley did not post another reference to 1999, the year the venture capital industry went crazy and valuations of revenue-less companies like Snapchat rose to incredible levels. Instead, he promoted the service, noting that “many adults still don’t understand the draw of Snapchat.” He has also pointed out that many enduring Internet companies had no revenue in the beginning.
当Snapchat的新闻传出的时候，格利没有再一次拿出1999年作参照——风险投资行业在那一年非常疯狂，像Snapchat这样毫无收益的公司能估出一个离谱的价格。事实上他反而对这项服务大加推广，指出“很多成年人还不了解Snapchat的魅力。”他还说，很多十分有影响的网络公司起初都没有收益。
Half of Silicon Valley argues that Snapchat is a flash in the pan, which means its fate will be revelatory as well as entertaining to watch. Perhaps it will indeed rank with the likes of Google or Yahoo. Or perhaps it is Pets.com.
一半的硅谷人认为，Snapchat不过是昙花一现，该公司的命运既有启发性，也具娱乐性。或许，它真的会跻身谷歌或雅虎(Yahoo)这类公司的行列。或许它只是又一个Pets.com。
“I don’t think we’ll ever get back — and should never get back — to the days of the late 1990s,” said Mr. Green, the venture capital association chairman. “But in venture capital we live in alpha world. It’s all about taking risks. This will not be orderly.”
“我认为我们不会回到——也绝不应该回到——20世纪90年代末，”风险投资协会主席格林说。“但风险投资领域的竞争十分激烈。这意味着要承担风险，不会按部就班。”