SAN FRANCISCO — Not long ago the pink house at 1829 Church Street, in the Glen Park neighborhood here, hit the market for $895,000.
旧金山——不久前，格伦公园居民区教堂街1829号的一栋粉红色住宅在市场上挂牌出售，要价89.5万美元（约合人民币550万美元）。
It sold for $1.425 million — $530,000 over the asking price — in less than two weeks.
不到两周，它就以142.5万美元的价格售出——比要价高出53万美元。
The story of this fixer-upper, with three bedrooms, two baths, linoleum floors and an Eisenhower-era kitchen, is in some ways the story of the moment in the city, where longtime residents complain that Silicon Valley money is basically ruining the place for everyone else.
这栋有待修缮的房子有三间卧室、两个浴室，铺了油毡地板，还有一个艾森豪威尔(Eisenhower)时代的厨房。从某些方面来说，它的故事就是当前旧金山的写照，该市的老居民抱怨说，硅谷的钱几乎让这个城市对其他所有人来说都变得不宜居住了。
More wealth is concentrated in the San Francisco Bay Area than just about any other place in the nation. Google alone, the story goes, minted 1,000 millionaires when it went public. Ditto Facebook. And Twitter? Some estimate 1,600. Tech worker bees are doing just fine, too, with average base salaries now north of $100,000.
财富在旧金山湾区的集中程度，几乎高于美国其他所有地方。仅是谷歌(Google)一家公司，据说上市时就造就了1000个百万富翁。Facebook也是如此。Twitter呢？一些人估计有1600个。科技工人的日子也过得不错，现在平均基本年薪在10万美元以上。
To understand how all this money is transforming San Francisco, for better and worse, look no further than this city’s hyperventilating real estate market. As technology companies have moved in — more than 5,000 start-ups now make their home locally — the influx of well-paid workers has pushed rents and home prices through the roof. Worsening matters, San Francisco has also become a bedroom community for many of the young people who work in Silicon Valley. Each day, Apple, Facebook, Google and others shuttle tens of thousands of their employees to work using private buses that have become a controversial symbol of rising tech wealth.
要了解这些钱是如何改变旧金山的，无论这些改变是好是坏，看看旧金山疯狂的房地产市场就知道了。随着科技公司的迁入——逾5000家初创公司已在这里落了脚——高薪工人大批涌入，把这里的房租和房价推高到了离谱的程度。让情况变得更糟的是，由于很多在硅谷工作的年轻人只在旧金山过夜，这里也沦为了他们的“卧室社区”。每一天，苹果(Apple)、Facebook、谷歌等公司都用自有巴士运送数以万计的员工上下班，这些巴士已成为了日益增加的高科技财富引人争议的一个象征。
At a recent open house for 1829 Church Street, the broker explained the property’s dilapidated appeal.
在教堂街1829号最近的一次开放参观日上，经纪人解释了这座破旧住宅吸引人的地方。
“It’s a block away from all the tech shuttles,” he said.
“它距所有高科技公司的班车路线都只相隔一个街区。”他说。
On one level, the technology industry and its riches have been very good to San Francisco. The unemployment rate is 4.8 percent, compared with 6.6 percent nationwide. Entire neighborhoods are being revitalized — or destroyed, depending on whom you talk to. To some, San Francisco is losing its soul as it gentrifies rapidly.
在某种程度上，科技产业及其财富给旧金山带来了极大的好处。这里的失业率只有4.8%，而全国总体水平为6.6%。整个社区都被注入了活力——或被扼杀了活力，这取决于跟你交谈的人是谁。对于某些人来说，随着旧金山的迅速贵族化，这座城市正在失去灵魂。
There is reason to worry. Over the last decade, 75,000 people have moved to San Francisco, but only 17,000 new housing units have been built. Over the next 25 years, city officials project, 150,000 more people will arrive.
这并不是杞人忧天。过去的10年已经有7.5万人迁入旧金山，但这里只修建了1.7万套新的住宅单元。市政府官员预测，在接下来的25年里，还会有15万人前来这里。
“The city is surrounded by water on three sides, and there is nowhere for people to go,” said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online real estate brokerage firm.
“这个城市三面环水，没有什么地方可供开发了。”网上房地产经纪公司雷德芬(Redfin)的首席执行官格伦·凯尔曼(Glenn Kelman)说。
Little wonder, then, that a feeding frenzy is underway in the housing market. Landon Nash, a real estate broker, said it was not uncommon for open houses to see hundreds of people shuffle through and conclude with a 20-person bidding war. People are waiving mortgage contingency clauses and home inspections — and paying cash.
难怪房产市场会这么疯狂。房地产经纪人兰登·纳什(Landon Nash)说，开放参观日有数百人前来看房，20人参与竞购的情况并不少见。买主会放弃抵押条件条款和房屋检查步骤，直接用现金付款。
In December, almost 40 percent of the home sales were all cash. Redfin estimates that, on average, homes in San Francisco are selling for 60 percent to 80 percent over asking price. Most are gobbled up within 16 days of being listed, down from 61 days five years ago, when the nation’s real estate market was still soft.
去年12月，近40%住宅销售都是全额现金付款。雷德芬估计，平均而言，旧金山的房屋售价会比要价高出60%到80%。大多数都在挂牌16天后售出，五年前全美房地产市场不景气的时候，通常需要61天才能售出。
But here’s the problem: As more people move in, the city will also need more public-school teachers, police officers and firefighters. Living in San Francisco on a city salary is difficult if not impossible. According to Redfin, in San Francisco County, where the average teacher earns $59,700 a year, not a single home now on the market is within the reach of the average public-school teacher. For police officers, who make an average of $80,000 a year, there is one affordable home. Five years ago, police officers and teachers could have afforded 36 percent of the homes on the market, according to Redfin.
但还有一个问题：随着越来越多的人迁入旧金山，该市还会需要更多的公立学校教师、警察和消防队员。在旧金山靠政府工资就算能够生活，也会十分困难。雷德芬的资料显示，在旧金山县，教师们的平均年收入是5.97万美元，现在市场上的住宅全都超出了普通公立学校教师的购买承受范围。警察平均每年能赚8万美元，可以住经济实惠型住宅。而在五年前，警察和教师可以负担得起市场上36%的住宅，雷德芬的资料显示。
Even some tech entrepreneurs and programmers say they are being priced out. They are competing with co-workers who got in early on a tech start-up, or started one of their own, and have seemingly unlimited money at their disposal.
就连一些高科技创业者和程序员也说自己付不起租金。他们正在和一些同行竞争，这些同行更早进入高科技创业公司或者自己创业，似乎有花不完的钱。
When Mark Zuckerberg bought his pied-à-terre in San Francisco’s Noe Valley in 2012, he had a representative knock on the door of the home he liked — it wasn’t even for sale — and then offered the owners all cash at double the value of the property.
2012年，马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)在旧金山诺伊谷买下一处临时住所时，他派人代表他去敲当时业主家的门——那所住宅甚至还没有挂牌出售——提出以双倍价格全额现金购买该栋住宅。
On Tuesday, 250 San Francisco residents congregated at Virgil’s Sea Room, a bar in the Mission district, to discuss the housing crisis. It didn’t take long for the event, called Tech Workers Against Displacement Happy Hour, to erupt into an expletive-fueled yelling match between tech workers and people running nonprofits that are trying to stop evictions in the city.
周二，250名旧金山居民聚集在教会区的“维吉尔海屋”(Virgil’s Sea Room)酒吧讨论住房危机。没过多久，这个名为“科技工人反驱逐欢乐时光”(Tech Workers Against Displacement Happy Hour)的活动就变成了一场充满粗口的骂战，双方分别是科技工人和试图阻止旧金山驱逐现象的非营利组织的负责人。
City officials know they have a housing problem on their hands.
市府官员知道他们面临住房问题。
“Our approach to housing in San Francisco is very dysfunctional,” said Scott Wiener, a San Francisco supervisor who is a proponent of new housing. “The system is intentionally designed to make it as difficult as possible to build new housing.”
“旧金山的住房管理办法很有问题。”斯科特·维纳(Scott Wiener)说，他是该市的一名监管员，支持修建新房屋。“这个系统故意设计得让新住房建设无比困难。”
There are long lists of rules, regulations and hurdles developers need to get around before building in the city that Mr. Wiener said were created to curb new construction. Real estate experts say the only way to build is up, but many longtime residents have shot down proposals for high-rise housing.
维纳说，开发商在修建房屋之前，需要应对很多规则、法规和难关，这些都是为了遏制新房屋的施工建设。房地产专家说唯一的办法就修建高楼，但很多老居民都反对修建高层住宅的提议。
Additionally, with each new housing unit, there need to be some affordable options. According to the Public Policy Institute of California and the Stanford Center on Poverty and Inequality, more than 23 percent of San Francisco residents are below the poverty threshold.
此外，每修建一套新的住宅单元，也需要修建一些经济型住宅。加州公共政策研究所(Public Policy Institute of California)和斯坦福贫困与不平等研究中心(Stanford Center on Poverty and Inequality)的资料显示，逾23%的旧金山居民处在贫困线以下。
In recent years, officials have managed to approve some new high-rise housing in the SoMa and Tenderloin areas. But it seems to be too little, too late.
近年来，官员们已设法批准开发商在市场街南区和田德隆修建了一些高层建筑，但不仅它们数量太少，而且行动得似乎也太晚了。
“We’re in an absolute housing crisis right now,” Mr. Wiener said. “There’s no easy solution, and it’s going to take us time to fix this.”
“现在我们陷入了一场绝对的房屋危机之中。”维纳说，“没有简单的解决方案，解决这个问题需要时间。”