SAN FRANCISCO — Look out Las Vegas, here comes FarmVille.
旧金山——拉斯维加斯可要小心了，“农场小镇”(FarmVille)要来了。
Silicon Valley is betting that online gambling is its next billion-dollar business, with developers across the industry turning casual games into occasions for adults to wager.
硅谷认定了在线赌博会是下一桩价值亿万美元的生意，整个行业的开发人员都在将各种休闲游戏，转变成让成年人赌博的机会。
At the moment these games are aimed overseas, where attitudes toward gambling are more relaxed and online betting is generally legal, and extremely lucrative. But game companies, from small teams to Facebook and Zynga, have their eye on the ultimate prize: the rich American market, where most types of real-money online wagers have been cleared by the Justice Department.
目前，这些游戏都针对海外市场，那里对于赌博的态度更为宽松，在线赌博通常也都合法，而且利润十分丰厚。然而无论是小团队，还是Facebook和Zynga，游戏公司都在瞄着最终大奖：巨大的美国市场。但在美国，大多数以真实货币为赌注的在线赌博，都已被司法部(Justice Department)取缔。
Two states, Nevada and Delaware, are already laying the groundwork for virtual gambling. Within months they will most likely be joined by New Jersey.
内华达和特拉华两州已经开始为虚拟赌博打基础了。几个月后，新泽西也很有可能加入这个行列。
Bills have also been introduced in Mississippi, Iowa, California and other states, driven by the realization that online gambling could bring in streams of tax revenue. In Iowa alone, online gambling proponents estimated that 150,000 residents were playing poker illegally.
密西西比州、艾奥瓦州、加利福尼亚州及其他州也由于认识到在线赌博能够带来大量税收收入，而推出了法案。在线赌博的推动者估计，单在艾奥瓦州，就有15万名居民玩着非法的扑克游戏。
Legislative progress, though, is slow. Opponents include an influential casino industry wary of competition and the traditional antigambling factions.
不过，立法程序十分缓慢。反对者中既有担心竞争的有影响力的赌博产业，也有传统的反赌博组织。
Silicon Valley is hardly discouraged. Companies here believe that online gambling will soon become as simple as buying an e-book or streaming a movie, and that the convenience of being able to bet from your couch, surrounded by virtual friends, will offset the lack of glittering ambience found in a real-world casino. Think you can get a field of corn in FarmVille, the popular Facebook game, to grow faster than your brother-in-law’s? Five bucks says you cannot.
不过这也没能让硅谷的热情减退。这里的企业相信，在线赌博很快就会像购买电子书、在线观看电影一样简单，而且坐在自家沙发上就能与网上虚拟的朋友们赌博，这种便利性，也能够弥补无法感受到富丽堂皇的真实赌场的遗憾。你说你在流行的Facebook游戏“农场小镇”里，种一片玉米田，能比你姐夫的长得更快？我敢赌五美元，你不行。
“Gambling in the U.S. is controlled by a few land-based casinos and some powerful Indian casinos,” said Chris Griffin, chief executive of Betable, a London gambling start-up that helps companies negotiate licenses and handle the betting aspects of the business. “What potentially becomes an interesting counterweight is all of a sudden thousands of developers in Silicon Valley making money overseas and wanting to turn their efforts inward and make money in the U.S.”
博彩业公司Betable的CEO克里斯·格里芬(Chris Griffin)表示，“在美国，赌博业由少数几家实体赌场，以及一些印第安人经营的强大赌场控制。”这家新创公司位于伦敦，能够帮助企业进行许可证谈判，并处理业务中涉及赌博的方面。“有可能成为一种有趣制衡的是，突然之间，硅谷数千家从海外赚钱的开发企业，现在想将业务转向国内，从美国赚钱。”
Betable has set up shop in San Francisco, where 15 studios are now using its back-end platform. “This is the next evolution in games, and kind of ground zero for the developer community,” Mr. Griffin said.
Betable已经在旧金山开设了办公室，有15个工作室正在使用该公司的后端平台。格里芬说，“这是游戏产业的下一次进化，有点像是开发人员群体的共同目标。”
Overseas, online betting is generating an estimated $32 billion in annual revenue — nearly the size of the United States casino market. Juniper Research estimates that betting on mobile devices alone will be a $100 billion worldwide industry by 2017.
在海外，在线赌博估计产生了320亿美元的年收入，与美国赌场业的规模相当。朱尼普研究公司(Juniper Research)估计，单单在移动设备上赌博，到2017年就可能成为价值1000亿美元的全球产业。
“Everyone is really anticipating this becoming a huge business,” said Chris DeWolfe, a co-founder of the pioneering social site Myspace, who is throwing his energies into a gaming studio with a gambling component backed by, among others, the personal investment funds of Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, and Eric E. Schmidt, Google’s executive chairman.
社交网站先行者Myspace的一位共同创始人克里斯·德沃尔夫(Chris DeWolfe)说，“所有人都预期这会成为一桩大生意。”他现在把精力投入到了一家具有赌博成分的游戏工作室。这家工作室得到了亚马逊(Amazon)创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)，以及谷歌(Google)执行总裁埃里克·E·施密特(Eric E. Schmidt)的个人投资。
As companies eagerly wait for the American market to open up, they are introducing betting games in Britain, where Apple has tweaked the iPhone software to accommodate them. Facebook began allowing online gambling for British users last summer with Jackpotjoy, a bingo site; deals with other developers followed in December and this month.
各公司迫切地等待美国市场开放的同时，它们也正在将赌博游戏推广到英国，苹果(Apple)也在这里调整了iPhone的软件来适应这些游戏。去年夏天，Facebook开始允许英国用户通过宾果网站Jackpotjoy进行在线赌博。去年12月和这个月，Facebook还与其他开发企业达成了协议。
Zynga, the company that developed FarmVille, Mafia Wars, Words With Friends and many other popular casual games, is advertising the imminent release of its first betting games in Britain. “All your favorite Zynga game characters will be there, except this time they’ll have real money prizes to offer you,” an ad says. “Play online casino games for pennies and live the dream!”
开发了“农场小镇”、“黑帮战争”(Mafia Wars)、“朋友拼字”(Words With Friends)，以及许多其他流行休闲游戏的Zynga公司，正在为即将在英国推出的首款赌博游戏打广告。广告中说，“你最喜欢的所有Zynga游戏人物都会来玩，不过这次他们会给你真钱奖励。几个便士就能在线玩赌博游戏，让你美梦成真！”
Mr. DeWolfe’s studio, SGN, is also on the verge of starting its first real-money games in Britain. “Those companies that have a critical mass of users that are interested in playing real-money games are going to be incredibly valuable,” he said.
德沃尔夫的工作室SGN也即将开始在英国经营自己的真实货币赌博游戏。他说，“一些公司拥有大量有兴趣玩真钱游戏的用户，那些公司的价值高得无法想象。”
Mark Pincus, the chief executive of Zynga, said the company was just following the market. “There is no question there is great interest from all kinds of people in games of chance, whether it is for real money or virtual rewards,” he said. Zynga, which has missed revenue expectations in the last year, is making gambling a centerpiece of its new strategy. It has just applied to Nevada for a gambling license.
Zynga的首席执行官马克·平卡斯(Mark Pincus)说，公司只是在跟随市场的趋势。他说，“毫无疑问，各式各样的人都对碰运气的游戏充满兴趣，无论这些游戏给的是真钱还是虚拟奖励。”去年未能实现收益预期的Zynga正在把赌博游戏打造成公司新战略的中心项目。Zynga刚刚向内华达州申请了赌博执照。
Casual gaming first blossomed on Facebook’s Web site, where players could readily corral friends into their games. It is now being rethought for mobile devices, so people can play in brief snippets as they wait for a bus or a sandwich.
休闲游戏最初在Facebook上得到了蓬勃发展，在那里，玩家可以轻易地把朋友拉拢到自己的游戏中。现在，开发商正在为移动设备重新设计游戏，以便于人们可以在等车或吃三明治的片刻功夫里玩游戏。
Some games mimic the slots and poker found in casinos; others emphasize considerably more creativity. The vast majority of casual game players play at no charge. A small number buy virtual objects in the game to speed their play or increase their status.
一些游戏模仿了赌场里的老虎机和扑克牌游戏；其他的游戏则强烈地显示出更多的创造性。绝大部分休闲游戏玩家打游戏时不需付费。有一小部分玩家购买了游戏中的虚拟装备，来加快游戏进程、或者提高他们的级别。
Tech executives expect an equally small number to play for real money but believe they will bet heavily, making them much more valuable to the gaming companies. By Betable’s estimate, the lifetime value of a casual player is $2 versus $1,800 for a real-money player.
技术企业高管们预计，在游戏里花出真金白银进行博弈的人也不会太多，不过，他们认为这些人会花大价钱下注，他们对游戏公司也要有价值得多。据Betable估计，一个使用真实货币的玩家，其终身价值为1800美元，一个休闲游戏玩家的终生价值只有2美元。
Big Fish Studios, a Seattle developer, introduced Big Fish Casino, an iPhone app, in Britain last fall. “We started with a one-pence slot machine,” little more than a penny, said Paul Thelen, Big Fish’s founder and chief executive. “Now it is up to a maximum of about $50 a bet.” Average revenue per player is exceeding $20 a day, whereas in virtual currency it was 30 or 40 cents.
去年秋天，西雅图的游戏开发企业大鱼工作室(Big Fish Studios)在英国推出了“大鱼赌场”(Big Fish Casino)游戏，这是一款iPhone应用。“一开始，游戏只提供一个赌注为一便士的老虎机”，比1美分多不了多少，大鱼工作室的创始人兼首席执行官保罗·西伦(Paul Thelen)说。“现在，它的每笔押注额最高可达大约50美元。”公司的每日收益超过了每个玩家20美元，而用虚拟货币时，日均收益是每个玩家30或40美分。
“Like in Vegas, some people get lucky and some don’t,” he added.
他补充说，“就像在拉斯维加斯，一些人鸿运当头，另一些人则没那么好的运气。”
The powerful Las Vegas and Indian casinos have mixed attitudes toward online gambling. Caesars Entertainment in 2011 acquired the Israeli start-up Playtika, developer of the popular Facebook game Slotomania, for about $180 million, offering it a springboard into the digital world. But Sheldon Adelson, the Las Vegas magnate and major Republican Party donor, is opposed to online betting because he thinks children will end up gambling.
实力雄厚的拉斯维加斯赌场和印第安赌场，对待在线赌博的态度相当复杂。2011年，凯撒娱乐(Caesars Entertainment)以大约1.8亿美元的价格，收购了以色列创业企业Playtika，后者开发了广受欢迎的Facebook游戏“疯狂老虎机”(Slotomaniag)，这宗交易为凯撒娱乐进军数字世界提供了一个跳板。不过，拉斯维加斯巨头、共和党的主要捐助人谢尔登·埃德森（Sheldon Adelson，又译萧登·艾德森——译注）却反对在线赌博游戏，其理由是，他认为这会导致儿童参与赌博。
In New Jersey, Gov. Chris Christie has had different qualms. He has vetoed two online gambling bills, the second earlier this month. One concern: the state’s take, a proposed 10 percent tax, was not large enough.
在新泽西州，州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)有着不同的顾虑。他已经否决了两份在线赌博议案，第二次否决是在本月早些时候。他的一个忧虑是：议案提出的10%的州政府税率还不够高。
The measure, which is likely to be refined and successfully resubmitted in the next few months, followed the state Constitution, which mandates that Atlantic City is the only spot in the state where gambling can take place. And so only the casinos were allowed to offer online games, although they could partner with tech companies; the actual computers allowing the gambling would have to be housed in the casinos. And of course players had to be over 21 and physically located in New Jersey.
这一议案可能会在未来数月进行修订，并重新提交。该举措符合新泽西州宪法的规定，即大西洋城是该州唯一的合法赌博区。所以，只有那些赌场才能获准提供在线赌博游戏，不过他们可以与技术公司合作；具备赌博功能的电脑必须放置在赌场内。当然，玩家的年龄必须超过21岁，且本人必须在新泽西州。