STANFORD, Calif. — For a few hours on Tuesday, Silicon Valley stopped rushing headlong into the future.
加利福尼亚州斯坦福——周二的几个小时，硅谷停下了向未来进发的脚步。
Dave Goldberg’s memorial service had no golden screens, no world-changing dreams or epic lines of code. About 1,700 people, most of whom in the world’s eyes are blessed beyond imagining, paused to contemplate fate and mortality. Many wept.
戴夫·古德伯格(Dave Goldberg)的追悼会没有黄金银幕，没有改变世界的梦想，也没有史诗般的代码。约1700人停了下来，沉思命运与生死——他们中的大多数在常人眼中宠命优渥。很多人落下了眼泪。
Mr. Goldberg died on Friday from head injuries after collapsing on a treadmill at a luxury resort in Mexico, according to the authorities. He was 47 and had been the chief executive of SurveyMonkey, an online polling service valued at $2 billion.
据官方消息，古德伯格上周五在墨西哥一个豪华度假村的跑步机上摔倒，后死于头部创伤。古德伯格现年47岁，是估值20亿美元的网络调查问卷公司SurveyMonkey的首席执行官。
His widow is Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook. He was a star at Yahoo, and she at Google before she joined Facebook. Between them, they seemed to know almost everyone among today’s leaders in entertainment, tech and politics.
古德伯格身后留下了妻子、Facebook的首席运营官谢丽尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)。他在雅虎(Yahoo)时是一颗明星，她在加入Facebook之前也是谷歌的一颗明星。他们两个人似乎认识如今娱乐、科技和政治界中几乎所有的领袖。
“Today we will put the love of my life to rest, but only his body,” Ms. Sandberg, who had not previously spoken publicly about her husband’s death, told those assembled at the Stanford Memorial Auditorium. “His spirit and soul are still with us.”
“今天，我们让我的一生所爱安息，但安息的只是他的躯体，” 桑德伯格对聚集在斯坦福纪念礼堂(Stanford Memorial Auditorium)的人们说，在此之前她未曾公开对丈夫之死发表任何声明。“他的精神和灵魂仍然与我们同在。”
Memorial Auditorium, dedicated in 1937 to Stanford’s dead from what was then called the Great War, was full. Prominent names were there: the director George Lucas and John Doerr of the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; the actor Ben Affleck; and, of course, Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook.
斯坦福纪念礼堂里坐满了人，这个礼堂于1937年为纪念在一战中死去的斯坦福人而建。很多大人物都现身了：导演乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)、风投公司凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)的约翰·杜尔(John Doerr)、演员本·阿弗莱克(Ben Affleck)，当然还有Facebook创始人马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)。
“I hope he knew how much he was loved,” said Reid Hoffman, the founder of LinkedIn. “I wish he could feel it.”
“我希望他知道，我们是如何地爱他，”领英(LinkedIn)创始人瑞·哈夫曼(Reid Hoffman)说，“我希望他感受到了。”
Bono sang “One” to a simple accompaniment. “It’s one need in the night,” he said. “We get to carry each other.”
博诺(Bono)在简单的伴奏下演唱了《一》(One)。“那是黑夜里的需要，”他说。“我们必须互相扶持。”
After the invited guests assembled, trading stories of the last time they’d seen Mr. Goldberg and expressing gratitude for each other’s company, the family entered from behind a midnight blue curtain.
受邀嘉宾到场之后，人们交流着他们最后一次遇见古德伯格的故事，表达对拥有彼此陪伴的感激，古德伯格的家人从深蓝色幕布后走进来。
Slides traced Mr. Goldberg’s life, from a childhood in Minnesota to adulthood, unabashed in his plastic Viking helmet or smiling as he introduced his children to the president of the United States.
幻灯片回溯了古德伯格的一生，从明尼苏达的童年到成年，他戴着塑料维京海盗头盔时的调皮，或向美国总统介绍他的孩子时的笑容。
Speakers, some of whom had known Mr. Goldberg as far back as his days as a student at Harvard University, portrayed a man blessed with the gifts of camaraderie and business acumen.
演讲者们形容他是一个生来富于同情和商业头脑的人，他们当中的一些人在古德伯格还是一名哈佛大学学生时就已经认识他。
There was space too for Mr. Goldberg’s ample humor, his joy in life and his skill at playing cards – half of the speakers were from a beloved poker quartet. “We went to Vegas almost 35 times,” said Phil Deutch, an energy investor. “The real number is 47. One year was on a Mother’s Day – in hindsight, that was a mistake.”
还有人提到古德伯格的幽默感，他的人生乐事，他的牌技——半数演讲者来自一个可爱的扑克四人组。“我们去拉斯维加斯几乎有35次了”，能源投资人菲尔·杜奇(Phil Deutch)说。“真实的次数是47次。有一年是在母亲节——现在想起来，那是一个错误。”
Every speaker promised to remember Mr. Goldberg’s loving, solicitous nature and take that to Ms. Sandberg, who now has two children to raise alone.
每个演讲者都许诺铭记古德伯格的友爱、热心的天性，并将此带给桑德伯格，她现在要独自一人抚养两个孩子。