When Awilda Jimenez started forgetting things last year, her husband, Edwin, felt a shiver of dread. Her mother had developed Alzheimer’s in her 50s. Could his wife, 61, have it, too?
去年，艾维达·希门尼斯(Awilda Jimenez)开始记不起事情的时候，她的丈夫埃德温(Edwin)恐惧得颤抖起来。艾维达的妈妈在50多岁时患上了阿尔茨海默氏病。现在，他61岁的妻子也会得这种病吗？
He learned there was a new brain scan to diagnose the disease and nervously agreed to get her one, secretly hoping it would lay his fears to rest. In June, his wife became what her doctor says is the first private patient in Arizona to have the test.
他听说有一种新的脑部扫描技术可以诊断这种疾病，他同意给妻子做检测，暗自希望此举可以消除他的担心。6月，他妻子做了扫描，据她的医生说，她是亚利桑那州首位接受检测的私人患者。
“The scan was floridly positive,” said her doctor, Adam S. Fleisher, director of brain imaging at the Banner Alzheimer’s Institute in Phoenix.
她的医生、菲尼克斯“旗帜阿尔茨海默氏病研究所”(Banner Alzheimer’s Institute)脑成像部主任亚当·S·弗莱舍(Adam S. Fleisher)说，“扫描结果鲜明地呈现阳性。”
The Jimenezes have struggled ever since to deal with this devastating news. They are confronting a problem of the new era of Alzheimer’s research: The ability to detect the disease has leapt far ahead of treatments. There are none that can stop or even significantly slow the inexorable progression to dementia and death.
从那时起，希门尼斯夫妇一直在挣扎着对付这个如雷轰顶般的消息。他们面临阿尔茨海默氏病研究新时代的问题：探测疾病的能力远远超前于治疗能力。没有一种办法能够阻止（或者哪怕是明显减缓）痴呆和死亡的必然进程。
Families like the Jimenezes, with no good options, can only ask: Should they live their lives differently, get their affairs in order, join a clinical trial of an experimental drug?
像希门尼斯夫妇这样没有其他选择的家庭只能问：他们应该换一种生活方式，赶紧安排好自己的事务，或者加入某种实验性药物的临床试验吗？
“I was hoping the scan would be negative,” Mr. Jimenez said. “When I found out it was positive, my heart sank.”
“我当时希望扫描结果是阴性，”埃德温说。“当我得知是阳性的时候，我的心一下子沉了下去。”
The new brain scan technology, which went on the market in June, is spreading fast. There are already more than 300 hospitals and imaging centers, located in most major metropolitan areas, that are ready to perform the scans, according to Eli Lilly, which sells the tracer used to mark plaque for the scan.
新的脑部扫描技术在6月份进入市场后迅速得到推广。礼来公司(Eli Lilly)表示，迄今已有300余家医院和成像中心——遍布全美多数大城市——准备好进行这种扫描。该公司销售在扫描中用来标记斑块的示踪剂。
The scans show plaques in the brain — barnaclelike clumps of protein, beta amyloid — that, together with dementia, are the defining feature of Alzheimer’s disease. Those who have dementia but do not have excessive plaques do not have Alzheimer’s. It is no longer necessary to wait until the person dies and has an autopsy to learn if the brain was studded with plaques.
扫描显示出的大脑中的斑块（形状像是甲壳动物的β淀粉样蛋白斑块），再加上痴呆症状，就足以诊断阿尔茨海默氏病。那些有痴呆症状、但斑块不是过多的人不是阿尔茨海默氏病患者。再也不需要等到病人死后，通过解剖来查明其大脑是否布满斑块。
Many insurers, including Medicare, will not yet pay for the new scans, which cost several thousand dollars. And getting one comes with serious risks. While federal law prevents insurers and employers from discriminating based on genetic tests, it does not apply to scans. People with brain plaques can be denied long-term care insurance.
很多保险公司，包括面向老年人的联邦医疗保险(Medicare)，尚未覆盖这种新的扫描，其费用高达几千美元。自费接受扫描也是带有严重风险的。虽然联邦法律禁止保险公司和雇主基于基因测试的歧视行为，但这不适用于扫描测试。大脑有斑块的人士，可能被拒绝投保长期护理保险。
The Food and Drug Administration, worried about interpretations of the scans, has required something new: Doctors must take a test showing they can read them accurately before they begin doing them. So far, 700 doctors have qualified, according to Eli Lilly. Other kinds of diagnostic scans have no such requirement.
美国食品和药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration ，简称FDA）对此类扫描的结果判读感到担心，于是提出了新要求：医生在操作之前必须先参加考试，证明他们能够准确判读扫描结果。据礼来公司介绍，迄今已有700名医生合格。其他诊断扫描没有此类要求。
In another unusual feature, the F.D.A. requires that radiologists not be told anything about the patient. They are generally trained to incorporate clinical information into their interpretation of other types of scans, said Dr. R. Dwaine Rieves, director of the drug agency’s Division of Medical Imaging Products.
还有一个不寻常之处，FDA要求放射科医师不被告知病人的任何病史资料。FDA医学影像部(Division of Medical Imaging Products)主任R·德维尼·里夫斯博士(R. Dwaine Rieves)表示，按照放射科医师的一般训练，对于其他扫描，他们会在判读结果时考虑临床资料。
But in this case, clinical information may lead radiologists to inadvertently shade their reports to coincide with what doctors suspect is the underlying disease. With Alzheimer’s, Dr. Rieves said, “clinical impressions have been misleading.”
但就这种扫描而言，临床资料可能导致放射科医师在不经意间受到影响，在他们的报告中迎合医生对根本疾病的猜测。里夫斯表示，在诊断阿尔茨海默氏病时，“临床印象一直具有误导性。”
“This is a big change in the world of image interpretation,” he said.
他说，“这是图像判读领域的一大变化。”
Like some other Alzheimer’s experts, Dr. Fleisher used the amyloid scan for several years as part of a research study that led to its F.D.A. approval. Subjects were not told what the scans showed. Now, with the scan on the market, the rules have changed.
作为一项研究的一部分，弗莱舍医生和其他一些阿尔茨海默氏病专家一样，利用淀粉样蛋白扫描已经有数年了，该项研究最终使这种扫描得到FDA的批准。之前，接受扫描的人不会被告知扫描结果。现在，随着这种扫描进入市场，规则发生了改变。
Dr. Fleisher’s first patient was Mrs. Jimenez. Her husband, the family breadwinner, had lost his job as a computer consultant when the couple moved from New York to Arizona to take care of Mrs. Jimenez’s mother. Paying several thousand dollars for a scan was out of the question. But Dr. Fleisher found a radiologist, Dr. Mantej Singh Sra of Sun Radiology, who was so eager to get into the business that he agreed to do Mrs. Jimenez’s scan free. His plan was to be the first in Arizona to do a scan, and advertise it.
弗莱舍医生的第一位病人就是艾维达。在艾维达和丈夫从纽约搬到亚利桑那州去照顾她母亲时，艾维达的丈夫（家里的经济支柱）丢掉了电脑咨询师的工作。掏出数千美元做扫描是根本不现实的。但是，弗莱舍找到了“太阳放射治疗所”(Sun Radiology)的放射科医师曼特耶·辛格·斯拉(Mantej Singh Sra)，斯拉非常希望进入这个行业，以至于他同意免费帮艾维达做脑部扫描。他的计划是率先在亚利桑那州做这种扫描，据以广告自己的服务。
After Dr. Sra did the scan, the Jimenezes returned to Dr. Fleisher to learn the result.
斯拉为艾维拉做完脑部扫描后，希门尼斯夫妇回到弗莱舍医生那里听取扫描结果。
Dr. Fleisher, sad to see so much plaque in Mrs. Jimenez’s brain, referred her to a psychiatrist to help with anxiety and suggested she enter clinical trials of experimental drugs.
弗莱舍医生难过地发现艾维达的大脑里有很多斑块，他只能把艾维达介绍给一位精神科医生，帮助她应对焦虑，同时建议艾维达参加实验性药物的临床试验。
But Mr. Jimenez did not like that idea. He worried about unexpected side effects.
但埃德温没有接受这个建议。他担心会出现意想不到的副作用。
“Tempting as it is, where do you draw the line?” he asks. “At what point do you take a risk with a loved one?”
“尽管听上去很吸引人，但你如何把握好这个度呢？”他问道。“什么时候你会愿意拿自己心爱的人冒险呢？”
At Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, Dr. Samuel E. Gandy found that his patients — mostly affluent — were unfazed by the medical center’s $3,750 price for the scan. He has been ordering at least one a week for people with symptoms ambiguous enough to suggest the possibility of brain plaques.
在纽约的西奈山医疗中心(Mount Sinai Medical Center)，脑部扫描的价格为3750美元（约合23379元人民币），该中心的塞缪尔·E·甘迪医生(Samuel E. Gandy)发现，他的病人——多数都很富有——不觉得这笔钱是个问题。每周他都会为病人安排至少一次脑部扫描，那些病人的症状都足够可疑，似乎表明他们的脑部至少可能有斑块。
Most of his patients want their names kept confidential, fearing an inability to get long-term care insurance, or just wanting privacy.
甘迪医生的多数病人都希望保密，担心以后不能获得长期护理保险，或者仅仅是为了隐私。
A woman from New Zealand was told by one doctor that she had Alzheimer’s and by another that she had frontotemporal dementia, a rare brain disease that strikes people at younger ages than Alzheimer’s and progresses faster. She had a scan. The result was clear — no significant accumulation of plaques. She had frontotemporal dementia. Unfortunately, Dr. Gandy said, there was nothing he could offer her, not even a clinical drug trial.
来自新西兰的一位女士从一名医生那里得知她患了阿尔茨海默氏病，而另一位医生却告诉她，她得的是额颞叶痴呆，这是一种很罕见的脑部疾病，比阿尔茨海默氏病的发病期早，并且发展得更快。这位女性接受了脑部扫描。结果很清楚——没有大量斑块聚集。她得的是额颞叶痴呆。不幸的是，甘迪医生表示，他拿不出任何东西帮助这位女士，甚至无法让她参加临床药物试验。
Dr. Gandy said that as many as 30 percent of people who seem to have Alzheimer’s turn out not to have it when they get the scan. But those who get bad news struggle to cope.
甘迪医生说，那些疑似患有阿尔茨海默氏病的人接受扫描后，多达30%的人会发现并没有患这种病。但那些得到坏消息的人很难接受现实。
Desperate to slow the progression of his wife’s disease, Mr. Jimenez is now giving her turmeric, coenzyme Q10, astaxanthin, krill oil, ginkgo biloba and coconut oil — remedies he found on the Internet. There is no good evidence they work, and each costs about $5 to $15 a month. But, Mr. Jimenez says: “What am I going to do? People feel so helpless with this disease that they are willing to try anything.”
急于延缓妻子病情发展的埃德温，现在让艾维达服用姜黄、辅酶Q10、虾青素、磷虾油、银杏以及椰子油——这些都是他在互联网上找到的偏方。没有很好的证据证明它们有效，而每一样东西每月都要花费5至15美元。但是埃德温说：“我能怎么做？这种病让人感到无能为力，只能乱投医。”
He worries about the future and how they will survive financially. He wonders if it might have been better not to know the diagnosis.
埃德温对未来很担忧，也不知道他和妻子能否度过经济上的难关。他纳闷的是，如果不知道诊断结果，会不会更好。
“It is financially, emotionally and spiritually draining,” Mr. Jimenez said. “Everything hangs by a thread.”
“这在经济上、情感上和精神上都让人筋疲力尽，”埃德温说。“一切都命悬一线。”