The release of a blockbuster album has historically come with a few standard marketing moves. Flood the radio with an early single. Book as many TV appearances as possible. Line up partnerships with big retailers and consumer brands.
从以往经验来看，成就一张大热门专辑，需要执行几条标准的市场营销策略。用一首先期发布的单曲在电台反复播放。抓住一切在电视上露面的机会。和大零售商、消费品牌建立合作。
But at midnight on Thursday, when Beyoncé released her latest album, she did none of those things. Instead, she merely wrote, “Surprise!” to her more than eight million Instagram followers, and the full album — all 14 songs and 17 videos of it — appeared for sale on iTunes.
但在周四的午夜，当碧昂丝(Beyoncé)发布她的最新专辑时，这些她全都没做。她只是在Instagram上对八百多万追随者说了一句“惊喜！”而整张专辑——全部14首歌和17部视频——开始在iTunes上架出售。
The stealth rollout of the album, “Beyoncé,” upended the music industry’s conventional wisdom, and was a smashing success. It sold 365,000 copies in the United States on its first day, according to people with direct knowledge who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss its sales. Depending on how it performed through the weekend, “Beyoncé” will likely have one of the year’s biggest opening sales weeks.
这张悄悄发布的专辑《碧昂丝》(Beyoncé)颠覆了音乐产业的传统智慧，正创下无与伦比的佳绩。据对销售状况有直接了解的人士称，专辑发行首日在美国售出36.5万张，由于没有得到谈论销量数据的授权，这些人要求在文中匿名。如果一直到周末都能保持很好的势头，《碧昂丝》有望成为这一年发售首周最热卖的专辑之一。
“I didn’t want to release my music the way I’ve done it,” Beyoncé said in a news release, which so far represents the only public comments that she or Columbia, her label, have made. “I am bored with that.”
“我不想再用以前那种方式发布我的音乐了，”碧昂丝在一份新闻稿中说，这份新闻稿迄今是她和她的唱片公司哥伦比亚(Columbia)发出的唯一公开评论。“我已经厌倦了。”
Though very few acts could attract the same attention as Beyoncé, the episode contains some lessons — and possibly a future blueprint — for the music industry. In bypassing the industry’s traditional promotional machinery, she demonstrated social media’s power to amplify news and to forge a direct connection to her audience. The release was “designed to highlight that it’s about her and her fan relationships,” said Alice Enders, a media analyst with the firm Enders Analysis in London.
当然，很少有人具备碧昂丝那样的号召力，但这个事件依然有很多值得音乐产业借鉴的地方——也许还是一份未来的蓝图。通过绕过产业内的传统推广系统，她证明了社交媒体在放大新闻效应和建立她与听众之间的直接联系方面的力量。这次发行的“意图是，强调她和她的粉丝之间的关系才是最重要的，”伦敦恩德斯分析公司(Enders Analysis)媒体分析师爱丽丝·恩德斯(Alice Enders)说。
Beyoncé appeared to agree with that assessment. “There’s so much that gets between the music, the artist and the fans,” she said in the news release. “I felt like I didn’t want anybody to give the message when my record is coming out. I just want this to come out when it’s ready and from me to my fans.”
碧昂丝似乎认同这种判断。“音乐、艺人和乐迷之间有太多障碍，”她在新闻稿中说，“我觉得我不希望任何人来帮自己传达出唱片的消息。我只想等它准备好了就出来，由我交给乐迷。”
The news quickly spread well past Beyoncé’s core audience, however. The online reaction to the album’s release — according to data from Twitter cited by Billboard, the news generated 1.2 million tweets in 12 hours — became a news story in itself. Other stars like Katy Perry and Lady Gaga promoted it to their millions of followers on social media, magnifying the attention. The album also quickly gained critical acclaim.
然而，消息很快就传到了碧昂丝铁杆歌迷群体之外。据《公告牌》(Billboard)援引的Twitter数据，这个消息在12个小时内引发了120万条推文，网络对专辑发布的反响本身也成了一个新闻。凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)和Lady Gaga等明星也在社交媒体上对自己的数百万追随者做宣传，将该专辑受到的关注进一步放大。此外专辑很快也得到了乐评的肯定。
The release also showed the marketing value of no marketing. Typically, to spur sales for high-priority albums, record companies follow Hollywood’s time-tested strategy of pointing consumers — repeatedly, and through every media platform available — to a specific release date in the future, and piggybacking on the promotional might of big consumer brands. Justin Timberlake, for instance, blitzed late night-television and was in commercials for Target and Bud Light Platinum before releasing his album “The 20/20 Experience” in March.
此次发布还展现了无营销的营销价值。为了刺激重量级专辑的销量，唱片公司通常会借用在好莱坞屡试不爽的策略，即通过一切媒体平台反复告诉消费者将来的某一个具体的发布日期，并借用大消费品牌的强大推销力量。比如贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)为了3月发布的专辑《正常体验》(The 20/20 Experience)在深夜电视节目上发动宣传战，还上了Target和Bud Light Platinum的广告。
Beyoncé also bucked other industry trends. At a time when singles are the dominant sales unit for pop music, the album was presented to fans as a complete multimedia work that had to be purchased in its entirety for $15.99. Accompanying the songs is a collection of videos by celebrated directors like Hype Williams and Terry Richardson. As Beyoncé explained in a video posted to her Facebook account, she wanted the album to be consumed and appreciated as a full artistic expression.
碧昂丝还抵制了其他一些产业风气。在一个单曲成为流行音乐销售主导力量的时代，这张专辑是被作为一个完整的多媒体作品呈现给乐迷的，必须以15.99美元（约合97元人民币）全部买下。和歌曲一同出售的还有一系列由著名导演执导拍摄的音乐视频，包括海普·威廉姆斯(Hype Williams)和特里·理查德森(Terry Richardson)的作品。在一则通过Facebook帐号发布的视频中，碧昂丝解释说，她希望这张专辑能作为一个完整的艺术表达被买下和欣赏。
That decision may have also helped sell more full albums — a far more profitable product for Beyoncé and Columbia. To prevent leaks, Columbia waited until after the exclusive iTunes release to manufacture the CD-DVD version of the album, which the release on Friday promised “will be available at retail in time for the holidays.”
这个决定可能对整张专辑的销量是有帮助的，而这样的产品给碧昂丝和哥伦比亚公司带来的利润要高很多。为了防止泄露，哥伦比亚一直等到iTunes独家发售之后才开始生产专辑的CD-DVD版，周五发布的消息承诺，“专辑能赶在节前上架。”
Beyoncé’s surprise album did not turn away radio stations, which are usually supplied with music in advance and courted by the record labels. Dion Summers, who programs urban music at Sirius XM Radio, said that rather than wait for Beyoncé’s label to deliver the music, he bought the album early Friday and began to play the songs “Drunk in Love” and “Partition” immediately.
唱片公司极为倚重的电台通常是会提前拿到音乐的，但它们并没有因此拒绝碧昂丝的惊喜专辑。在天狼星XM电台(Sirius XM Radio)负责都市音乐的迪昂·萨莫尔斯(Dion Summers)说他没有等碧昂丝的公司把音乐送来，而是周五早早地买了专辑，立即开始在节目里放《醉爱》(Drunk in Love)和《分开》(Partition)。
“It’s an instant classic, a game changer,” Mr. Summers said. “It has a long life ahead of it.”
“无需时间检验，这张专辑相当经典，是张改变规则的专辑，”萨莫尔斯说，“它会流传很长时间。”
In the music industry and among Beyoncé’s fans, it was no secret that she had been working on a new record. In fact, she had gone into 2013 with what seemed to be a by-the-book marketing campaign for an imminent album. Late last year she formed a lucrative global partnership with Pepsi, and in February sang at the Super Bowl halftime show and had an HBO documentary. She even embarked on a world tour in April, stoking gossip about a possible delay for the record.
无论是音乐产业还是碧昂丝的粉丝都知道她一直在做这张专辑。事实上2013年初她似乎就已经在进行一场按部就班的新专辑推广活动。去年底她和百事(Pepsi)组成了一个价值连城的全球合作伙伴关系，2月在超级碗中场秀上献唱，还有了一部HBO纪录片。她甚至在4月进行了一次全球巡演，引发唱片将延期发布的传闻。
But that expectation may have heightened the anticipation — and the rush to buy — when the album, her fifth studio release, finally came out. Her first-day sales surpassed the 310,000 copies that her last album, “4,” sold in its first week two years ago.
但这种猜测可能反而加剧了人们的期待，并在她的第五张录音室专辑终于推出时，刺激了人们的购买冲动。该专辑的首日销量超过了两年前的上一张专辑《4》31万张的首周销量。
Even last week, a release date looked nebulous. In an interview with the industry publication Hits, Rob Stringer, Columbia’s chief executive, said that as part of the label’s plans for 2014, “Obviously, at some point Beyoncé will put a record out.”
就在上周，发行日期还是含混不清的。在接受产业期刊《金曲》(Hits)的采访时，哥伦比亚首席执行官罗伯·斯特林厄(Rob Stringer)说，作为公司的2014年计划的一部分，“碧昂丝显然在一定时候会推出一张唱片。”
“And when she does,” he added, “it will be monumental.”
“等她真的出了，”他还说，“那将是件了不起的大事。”