LE BOURGET, France — Should there be a global price on carbon?
法国布尔歇——碳应该有一个全球价格吗？
Many countries say yes. About 40 countries and 23 regions, states and cities, representing about 12 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, have mechanisms to put a price on carbon.
很多国家认为应该有。约40个国家和23个地区、州和城市已经建立了碳定价机制，它们总共占全球温室气体排放量的12%。
Ninety countries have promised to include a carbon pricing program by either imposing a tax on carbon emissions or adopting a market system to trade emission rights – known as cap-and-trade — as part of their emission reduction plans.
90个国家已承诺，将在其减排计划中采用碳定价机制，具体方式可以是对碳排放征税，也可以用市场机制来开展碳排放权交易——称为“排放限额与交易”系统。
The United States is not one of the 90, and the issue is far too contentious to make the agenda for the Paris climate talks.
美国不在那90个国家之列，而这个问题太过敏感，无法成为巴黎气候大会的议程。
But on the sidelines of the talks on Monday, the leaders of Canada, Chile, Ethiopia, France, Germany and Mexico called on other countries to start charging for carbon pollution, citing the example of California, whose cap-and-trade program is nearly a decade old.
但在周一的会谈期间，加拿大、智利、埃塞俄比亚、法国、德国和墨西哥的领导人以加利福尼亚州为例，呼吁其他国家开始对污染收费。加州的碳排放限额与交易计划已实行近十年。
“Let us be clear: We are not going to impose on everyone a single way to price carbon,” President François Hollande of France, the host of the climate talks, said. “What we want to promote are tools that will modify, little by little, through a carbon price, the behaviors of economic actors.”
“要明确一点，我们不是强迫所有国家都按照一种方式给碳定价，”法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)说。“我们想宣传的，是通过碳价来慢慢改变经济主体行为的工具。”
Mr. Hollande added: “We could envision that by 2020 there could be a carbon price for all the G20 countries.” China, for example, plans to begin a carbon emissions trading program by 2017, and France plans to increase its domestic fossil-fuel tax, to 100 euros per metric ton in 2030, from 22 euros per metric ton next year.
奥朗德接着表示：“我们可以设想，到2020年，可能20国集团的所有成员国都对碳定价了。”比如，中国计划在2017年启动一个碳排放交易计划，法国则计划把国内的化石燃料税从明年的每公吨22欧元，增加到2030年的每公吨100欧元。
But Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said that “the whole has to be included” if carbon pricing is to work.
但德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)称，如果给碳定价有用，“所有国家都应参与”。
Canada’s shift on the issue has been the most dramatic. As Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, whose Liberal Party swept to power in elections last month, put it, “Canada has been less enthusiastic than some these last years about carbon pricing. But now we have four provinces who have stepped up and put on a carbon price.” The four are Alberta, British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec.
加拿大在这个问题上的转变是最大的。正如该国总理贾斯廷·特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)所说，“过去几年，在给碳定价这个问题上加拿大不像一些国家那么热情。但现在，我们已经有四个省加快步伐，对碳定价了。”他说的四个省是艾伯塔、不列颠哥伦比亚、安大略和魁北克。特鲁多所在的自由党(Liberal Party)是通过上月的选举成为执政党的。
The traditional resistance in the energy industry to a carbon tax may be eroding. Last month, 10 big oil companies endorsed the United Nations’ goals of limiting climate warming. There is a growing consensus that much of the world’s reserves of oil, gas and coal may have to stay in the ground if the world is to move toward a low-carbon future.
能源行业向来反对碳税，但这种反对可能正在消失。上月，10家大型石油公司对联合国限制气候变暖的目标表示支持。如果要朝低碳的方向发展，世界上大量的石油、天然气和煤炭储备可能必须留在地下，这一点日渐成为共识。
As Mr. Trudeau put it, there is rising acceptance that “reducing our carbon footprint isn’t just good for the planet, it is also good for business and most importantly good for future generations.”
就像特鲁多所说，人们越来越认可“减少碳足迹不仅有利于地球，还有利于商业，最重要的是有利于子孙后代”。
Ethiopia is the poorest of the six countries whose leaders attended the event. “Many of you may wonder why such a poor country as Ethiopia has an interest in carbon pricing,” Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn said, adding: “Pricing of carbon could potentially be an opportunity for financing technology for supporting climate action.”
在发起呼吁的六个国家中，埃塞俄比亚是最穷的。“可能你们中的很多人都好奇，为何像埃塞俄比亚这么穷的国家都有意给碳定价，”该国总理海尔马里亚姆·德萨莱尼(Hailemariam Desalegn)说。“给碳定价可能是向支持气候行动的技术提供资金的潜在机会。”