Next Monday I’m scheduled to be on a panel at the South by Southwest mediafest in Austin, discussing the ways in which our digital culture is changing how our children grow up. My role is apparently to make the more expert members of the panel – Emily Bazelon of Slate, Danah Boyd of Microsoft Research and Jason Rzepka of MTV – look brilliant by comparison. Given Bazelon’s timely new book on bullying, I expect that much of the conversation will explore whether the Internet contributes to a rising tide of meanness.
下周一，我将动身去南方，计划前往位于奥斯汀的西南部媒体盛会去参加一个座谈会，就当下的“数码文化”如何改变孩子的成长方式展开讨论。显然，我的角色是为了让像《Slate》杂志的艾美莉·巴森隆(Emily Bazelon)、微软研究院(Microsoft Research)的丹娜·伯依德(Danah Boyd)，以及MTV的杰森·来斯艾普卡(Jason Rzepka)等其他更具相关专业知识的成员显得更为睿智而存在的。考虑到来斯艾普卡那本及时推出的新书是关于欺凌主题的，因此我推测，不少时间将用来探讨，网络是否对日益增长的恶性行为起到了推波助澜的作用。
So the subject was on my mind as I absorbed the reader response to my column Monday on President Obama’s role in the great American budget impasse and the automated austerity called “sequester.” The column argued that, while the preponderance of blame lies with an intransigent, Obama-hating claque of congressional Republicans, Obama had played into their hands by failing to use the leverage available to him as president. Most of the reader reaction was critical: I was unfair to Obama, I gave short shrift to the pigheadedness of the Republicans, I was too enamored of a grand fiscal compromise, I was wrong to suggest any tampering with Medicare or Social Security, etc. Other readers came to my defense. I tossed in a few responses. The exchanges had moments of lively and thought-provoking debate, but they were surrounded by a lot of vitriol and sloganeering.
所以当我在看自己周一专栏的读者评论时，这个问题也一直浮现在我脑海里。那篇文章论述了奥巴马总统在美国预算僵局及被称为“自动减赤”的自动财政紧缩中所起到的作用。我在专栏里写到，虽然那些毫不让步、憎恨奥巴马的共和党议员要承担大部分责任，但奥巴马之所以失去了主动权，也是因为自己没能完全地利用一个总统可以动用的资源。大多数的读者对此反响尖锐，他们认为：我对奥巴马评价不公；我忽视了共和党人的固执程度；我太迷信于财政大妥协；我不该建议对联邦医疗保险(Medicare)或社会安全福利(Social Security)进行任何改动等等。有些读者也支持我。我随手回复了几条。但除去偶尔带来了非常生动、并具启发性的辩论，这种交流充斥着尖酸刻薄的话语和口号。
The discussion took place in many venues, but I followed it in two: the comment stream posted with the article on nytimes.com, and Twitter. As the teachers say, compare and contrast.
许多平台都对这个话题进行了讨论，但我主要查看了两个地方：《纽约时报》网站上跟在该文章后面的评论，以及Twitter。就如老师们常讲的，比较和对比。
In both arenas the commenters mostly lean left. The Times opinion section tends to draw liberal readers. So does Twitter, according to a new Pew Research report. (Twenty percent of the public thought Obama won his first debate against Mitt Romney. Fifty-nine percent of Tweeters thought so.) In both venues the commenters were rough on me, and quick to categorize me (and dismiss me) in partisan terms: as a shill for the right wing, or a footsoldier of the morally bankrupt center. But the Twitter exchange was markedly meaner and shallower than the comment feed on The Times website. It was like the difference between a relatively civil town meeting and open mike night at a really bad comedy club.
在这两个地方，大多评论都偏左。《纽约时报》上的观点栏主要吸引了自由派的读者。 而根据新的皮尤研究报告(Pew Research Report)，Twitter也是如此。（只有20％的公众认为奥巴马在他的第一场辩论上赢了罗姆尼，而在Twitter上有59％的人这么认为。）这两个地方的评论都非常苛刻，并且他们都很快就用“党派标签”来迅速给我定性，并对我不屑一顾。他们把我当成右翼的“托儿”，或道德沦丧的中间派走卒。但比起时报网站，Twitter上的交流明显更为恶毒且肤浅。这就像是一个相对客气有礼的城镇会议，和一个大家可以随便上台表演的末流喜剧俱乐部开放之夜的区别。
At this very moment someone is doubtless tweeting: “Duh, it’s Twitter, not a term paper, you arrogant moron.” Yes, I get that Twitter is for snappy, 140-character repartee, not serious argument and reflection and nuance. NYT comments give readers more room to marshal facts and articulate points of view, and many of them ring with real authority. Also, Times comments are moderated to filter out the profanity, personal insult and intemperate outbursts that Twitter relishes.
此时此刻，肯定有人发推文称：“切，这是Twitter，不是学期论文，你这个自以为是的白痴。”是的，我知道Twitter需要的是短小精悍的机智应答，且长度不得超过140个字母。它不是严肃辩论问题，反思或提供细节之处。而《纽约时报》的评论栏给予了更多的空间来让读者统筹事实和清楚地表达观点，其中很多评论相当具有权威性。同时，《纽约时报》上的评论栏能过滤掉Twitter上常见的粗话，人身攻击以及各种毫无节制的发泄。
But bear with me. More in the spirit of Twitter than column-writing – as in, let’s toss out some thoughts and see how the crowd reacts – here are a few other factors that may make the Internet a hospitable place for malice:
请对我耐心一点，让我秉承着写Twitter而非写专栏的精神——即随便抛出一些想法，看看大众如何反应—－讲一讲几个让互联网变成藏污纳垢场所的其他因素：
Social media rewards partisanship. It is the nature of the medium that like-minded people talk to one another and reinforce one another. It is easy to dismiss any aliens who challenge your prejudices. Unquestioned prejudices shrivel into slogans and labels.
社交网络奖励党派之争。这种媒介的性质就是让志同道合者彼此交流，然后巩固彼此的观点。在这里，一个人很容易就会对挑战自己偏见的人嗤之以鼻。没人质疑的偏见又很容易简化成口号和标签。
Immediacy encourages snap judgments, and once you have voiced your judgment to the wide world it is more difficult to retreat from it. Sree Sreenivasan, the chief digital officer at Columbia University, has said he spends an average of three to five minutes composing every tweet he sends. But that goes against the Twitter grain, where I suspect most tweets take three to five seconds.
发表评论的急迫性则鼓励人们做出快速评判，而一旦你对外界表达了自己的判断和想法，你就很难改变立场。 哥伦比亚大学的数码事务负责人斯里·斯里尼瓦萨(Sree Sreenivasan)曾经说，他完成一条推文的平均时间是三到五分钟。但这违背了Twitter的理念，我怀疑大多推文只用三到五秒钟就完成了。
In a crowd – and the Internet is the ultimate crowd – there is a temptation to SHOUT to be heard. This is especially true when comments are unfiltered, and the crowd noise consists in large part of nips and jibes and sneers.
在人群中——当然，互联网就是最大的一群人——有着一种大喊大叫以被听到的冲动。这点在评论不被过滤的时候表现得尤其明显，而人群中大多数声音代表着彼此之间的争斗，奚落和嘲笑。
Anonymity – and much of social media still permits anonymity – is license to be vicious.
匿名制——许多社交媒体依然允许匿名制——是恶意行为的许可证。
The Web culture is simultaneously elitist and anti-authoritarian, as you might expect from a universe that (for now) skews young, educated and attentive to fashions. The technology is open to all; the ambience is more clubby.
网络文化既带有精英主义色彩，又具备反权威性质，考虑到网络世界偏向于年轻人和受过教育的人，并对时尚潮流敏感，这点并不出人意料。科技是对所有人开放的；网络气氛则有些排外。
It is always on, and it gets inside your head. If you are a kid hounded by the class nasties, or an adult being punished for an unpopular view, there is no escape.
这一切无休无止，它会影响你的思维。不管你是一个被班上坏孩子欺负的小孩，还是一个因持不受欢迎观点而被惩罚的成年人，总是无处可逃。
For the record, I spent about six years of my working life helping reinvent this paper’s newsroom for the digital world – among other things, nurturing a culture of invention and experimentation, and convening an interactive audience. I believe the blessings of the Internet outnumber its dangers.
我想说清一点：我花了约六年工作时间来改造这家报纸的新闻编辑室，以适应这个数字化的世界，其中的一项工作就是，培育一个具有创新性和实验性的文化氛围，并且去吸引愿意互动的读者。我相信互联网的好处超过了它的危害。