TEHRAN, Iran — Born into a poor family in one of Tehran’s most desolate neighborhoods, at age 17 Safar Anghouti had little to look forward to beyond a lifetime in his father’s business — rummaging through trash on the streets of the city for bottles, cans and anything else of value.
伊朗德黑兰——17岁的萨法尔·安古提(Safar Anghouti)出生在德黑兰最破败的社区的一个贫穷家庭，除了一辈子给父亲帮忙，在街上的垃圾堆里翻找瓶瓶罐罐及所有值钱的东西，他似乎没有任何其他期望。
But one thing could always be said of Safar Anghouti: he was talented with the knife. His friends said he could unfailingly hit a target at 30 feet. One day seven years ago he lost his temper, and in a flash his knife flew through the air, inflicting a mortal wound in the neck of a rival.
但萨法尔·安古提有一项值得夸耀的本事：他擅于用刀。朋友说，他可以击中距离自己30英尺（约合9米）的东西，百发百中。七年前的一天，他发了一次脾气，然后他的刀瞬间划过空气，在对手的脖子上留下了致命的一刀。
Mr. Anghouti was quickly tried and convicted, and this being Iran, where murder carries the death penalty even for minors, he found himself on death row in one of the country’s largest prisons.
很快，安古提便接受了审判并被定罪。他被关在了伊朗最大的一个监狱里，等待死刑。在伊朗，甚至连未成年人都要因为谋杀而接受死刑。
For most Iranian convicts — more than 600 were executed last year — that would have been the end of the story, but not for Mr. Anghouti, who became the beneficiary of two evolving trends in Iranian society, a growing distaste for capital punishment and the spread of social media.
对于大多伊朗罪犯而言——去年共有600多人被处以极刑——故事可能会就此结束，然而对于安古提来说却并非如此。他成为了伊朗社会两种正在发展的趋势的受益者——人们对死刑越来越排斥，以及社交媒体的快速发展。
Under Iran’s Islamic justice system, convicted criminals — even murderers — can buy their freedom from the victim’s family. Thanks to an extraordinary social media campaign, Mr. Anghouti’s impoverished family was able to take the next step and raise the $50,000 demanded by the relatives of the victim. After escaping the noose three times with last-minute appeals, Mr. Anghouti, now 24, is due to be released any day, once bureaucratic loose ends are tied up.
根据伊朗的伊斯兰司法体系，被定罪的罪犯——甚至谋杀犯——能用金钱从受害者家属手中买回自由。在一场大规模社交媒体运动的帮助下，安古提一贫如洗的家庭才得以采取下一步骤，筹集到了受害者家属索要的5万美元（约合30.6万元人民币）。安古提三次在紧急关头通过上诉逃脱死亡，只要程序性问题一解决，现已24岁的他会随时获释。
“All these people, they felt the execution of someone who committed a mistake when he wasn’t even old enough to get a driver’s license was unjust,” said Mr. Anghouti’s sister, Zahra. “Instead of applauding revenge, they paid money to spare my brother’s life.”
“所有人都认为，处决一个甚至还没有到达持有驾照年龄的犯错者是不公平的，”安古提的姐妹扎赫拉(Zahra)说。“他们非但没有呼吁报复，反而捐钱来换取我兄弟的性命。”
Executions have been a primary form of punishment in Iran for decades, some of them public but most carried out behind prison walls. The United Nations estimates that Iran executed 500 to 625 convicts in 2013 — among them two juvenile offenders and 28 women — by far the most in the world after China.
数十年来，极刑一直是惩罚罪犯的主要方式，有时候当局会公开执行死刑，但大多数时候，死刑都是在监狱里执行的。据联合国(United Nations)估计，伊朗2013年共处决了500到625名罪犯，其中有两名未成年人，还有28名女性。这个数字排在中国之后，但远远领先其他国家。
Most of the sentences were handed down for drug smuggling and dealing, but executions were also carried out for murder, sodomy and “enmity against God,” a religious accusation open to a multitude of interpretations.
大多数人都是因为毒品走私和交易而被处以极刑的，但杀人、鸡奸和“渎神”也可能会被判处死刑。“渎神”是一种与宗教相关的指控，它可能有着各种各样的诠释方式。
But in recent years attitudes have shifted, social activists say. Public hangings still attract hundreds of onlookers, but Iran’s enormous middle class is turning against capital punishment.
社会活动人士说，近年来，人们的态度发生了转变。公开的绞刑仍然会吸引成百上千人前去观看，但是伊朗庞大的中产阶级开始转而反对极刑。
The issue of juveniles and Islamic law in Iran is especially complex, mainly because of conflicting interpretations of adulthood. According to the official Iranian interpretation of Islam, a girl is mature at the age of 9 and a boy is regarded as a man at 15. But the legal age for obtaining a driver’s license and owning property is 18, as is the threshold for men to fulfill Iran’s obligatory military service.
在伊朗，关于未成年人和伊斯兰教法的事情尤其复杂，主要是因为人们对成年的定义看法不一。根据伊朗对伊斯兰教的官方解释，女性的成熟年龄为9岁，而男性的成熟年龄是15岁。但是，获取驾照和持有财产的法定年龄为18岁，男性服义务兵役的年龄也是18岁。
In 2012, the Guardian Council, which decides whether new laws are constitutional, approved an amended penal code for juvenile offenders that removes capital punishment for “discretionary crimes” like drug-related offenses. But individual judges can still hand down death sentences to juvenile offenders in other cases if they determine the child understood the nature and consequences of the crime. As of late 2012, Human Rights Watch reported last year, more than 100 juvenile offenders were on death row.
2012年，负责决定新法规是否合乎宪法的宪法监督委员会(Guardian Council)批准了针对青少年罪犯的一项刑法修正案，经过修正的法案移除了对涉毒罪行等“可酌情行事的罪行”进行极刑惩罚的规定。但是，法官仍然有权对青少年罪犯判处死刑，条件是他们能够确定这个孩子明白其罪行的本质和结果。2012年年末，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)称，去年共有100多名青少年罪犯在等待死刑。
One of those was Mr. Anghouti, who had let his knife fly after seeing his victim, Mehdi Rezai, talking with a girl the young trash collector considered his. Seven years after the killing, the final date for his execution was set for Jan. 20.
在其中就有安古提，这位收废品的小伙子当年看到被害人麦赫迪·雷扎伊(Mehdi Rezai)和他认为属于自己的姑娘谈话，于是掷出了飞刀。在杀人案发七年后，他的行刑日期定在了1月20日。
With only a month to go, Mr. Anghouti’s family turned to the Imam Ali Popular Student’s Society, one of the few tolerated groups trying to prevent the executions of juvenile offenders. Since 2006, the group had managed to prevent 15 such executions.
安古提的家人一个月前才向阿里伊玛目民间学生协会(Imam Ali Popular Student’s Society)求助，那是少数得到容忍的反对处决青少年罪犯的活动团体。自2006年以来，该团体已经成功地阻止了15宗处决。
The group’s work is based on a key principle in Iran’s interpretation of Islamic law that allows victims to seek retribution, avenging what has been done to them or their relatives — sometimes in eye-for-an-eye fashion — or to pardon offenders. In many cases, a pardon comes with cash compensation.
这个组织的工作依据的是伊朗阐释伊斯兰教法的一项关键原则，即允许受害人去寻求惩罚，依据他们或他们的亲属的遭遇来实施报复——有时候用的是以牙还牙的办法——或者选择赦免罪犯。赦免很多时候都是涉及到现金赔偿的。
“We tell people that children are innocent,” said Zahra Rahimi, who runs the society with her husband, Sharmin Neymaninejad.
“我们对人们说，孩子是无辜的，”和丈夫沙米因·内耶曼尼内贾德(Sharmin Neymaninejad)一同负责该协会的札哈拉·拉西米(Zahra Rahimi)说。
For the past year, she and other volunteers visited the family of Mr. Rezai, the victim. Sipping tea, sometimes taking along famous actors and other victims who had pardoned their attackers, they worked patiently to break down a wall of resistance and convince the relatives that it would be merciful and compassionate to allow Mr. Anghouti to live.
去年，她和其他志愿者会前往受害人雷扎伊家中。他们坐下来喝茶，有时会带一些著名的演员和其他已经赦免攻击者的受害人同去，他们耐心地化解了抵触情绪，让受害人亲属认识到，给安古提一条活路是一件仁慈而富于同情心的事。