BANGKOK — Anand Panyarachun, one of Thailand’s leading statesmen, recently noted that his country seemed to have everything going for it — plentiful natural resources, good weather and fortunate geography free from typhoons or volcanic eruptions.
曼谷——泰国知名政治家阿南·班雅拉春(Anand Panyarachun)最近指出，他的祖国似乎具备一切有利条件——有丰富的自然资源和良好的气候，还有幸运的地理位置，不必担心台风或者火山爆发。
Yet Thailand, he said, was “pulling the plug” on itself with destructive politics.
但他表示，带有破坏性的政治活动正让泰国走上自我毁灭之路。
“I cannot explain what continues to overshadow all of this goodness,” he said.
“我无法解释是什么遮蔽了所有这些美好的东西，”他说。
The repeated bouts of violent unrest over the past seven years, including the grinding protests that began here last week, are often attributed to the highly personalized battle between opponents and allies of Thaksin Shinawatra, the tycoon and former prime minister who was removed in a 2006 coup but who remains a force in Thai politics.
在过去七年间反复爆发的暴力骚乱，包括始于上周的那些充满摩擦的抗议活动，常常被归因为他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的对手和盟友之间高度个人化的斗争。这位极其富有的前总理在2006年的一场政变中被赶下台，但依然是泰国政坛一位颇具影响力的人物。
Yet researchers and historians say something deeper is ailing the country, a steady unraveling of an old consensus about who wields political power and who receives government largess, questions that will linger long after the last protester in the latest demonstrations goes home.
不过，研究人员和历史学家们表示，让这个国家倍受困扰的还有更深层的原因。关于由谁来接掌政权，以及由谁来接受政府的慷慨善待，旧有的共识正逐步瓦解。参加最近的游行示威活动的抗议者散去之后，这些问题依然会长久地存在。
“What has been happening in Thailand is not about Thaksin or not even about conflicts among the elite — it’s socioeconomic change, enormous change that has taken place for the past two decades,” said Nidhi Eoseewong, a prominent historian.
“泰国当前的局势与他信乃至精英阶层内部的冲突无关——真正的原因在于过去20年间在社会经济层面所发生的巨大变化。”著名历史学家尼迪·伊奥希翁(Nidhi Eoseewong)表示。
Mr. Nidhi said the country had changed in tandem with Asia’s rapid economic growth. Millions of peasant farmers have risen into the middle class and are clamoring for more representation. “The old elite, including the established middle class, doesn’t want to tolerate their participation,” he said.
伊奥希翁称，随着亚洲经济的快速增长，这个国家已经发生了改变。数百万农民挤进了中产阶层，吵着要享有话语权。“而原先的精英阶层，包括既有的中产阶层，不能容忍他们的参与，”他说。
The protests of the past week have illustrated how the old establishment feels threatened by the power of the provincial masses.
过去一周的抗议活动已经说明，乡野民众的力量如何让旧有的权力集团感受到了威胁。
The leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban, a former executive in the Democrat Party, Thailand’s oldest political party, has demanded that the country abandon its electoral system in favor of an unelected and ill-defined People’s Council. The source of mistrust of electoral politics seems clear. The Democrat Party has lost every election since 1992, mainly because it has failed to gain support among the emerging rural middle class in the north.
抗议活动的领导者素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)，曾是泰国历史最悠久的政党——民主党(Democrat Party)的高层领导。他已经要求这个国家抛弃选举制度，转而成立一个不经选举、未被清晰界定的人民委员会。对选举政治怀有疑虑的根源似乎很明确。从1992年至今，民主党输掉了每次大选，主要原因就是该党没能获得北部农村新兴中产阶级的支持。
The electoral power shift from Bangkok to the northern provinces is all the more destabilizing because it comes amid uncertainty about the future of Thailand’s monarchy. In his more than six decades on the throne, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who turns 86 on Thursday, has helped define the country’s identity and provided cohesion for its linguistic and ethnic groups. But some analysts say the adoration of the king has been a crutch for the nation and that his death could further test the fragile relationships between the powerful military, the elites and the emerging middle class.
选举话语权从曼谷向北方省份的转移让局势更加不稳定，因为这种转移是在泰国君主制的未来充满变数之际发生的。普密蓬·阿杜德国王(King Bhumibol Adulyadej)将于周四迎来自己86岁的生日，他在登基后的60多年时间里，帮助确立了民众对这个国家的认同感，给说着不同语言、来自不同种族的群体提供了凝聚力。但一些分析人士表示，国王崇拜一直是这个国家的一把拐杖，一旦他离世，强大的军方、精英阶层以及新兴中产阶级之间的脆弱关系就会遭受更大的考验。
Power struggles between Bangkok and the provinces, especially the populous northeast, go back at least a century, according to Charles Keyes, an American scholar and the author of a new book on the integration of the northeast into the Thai state.
按照美国学者查理·凯斯的说法，曼谷与各个省份，尤其是人口众多的东北部省份之间的权力斗争，至少可以往前追溯一个世纪。凯斯新出版了一本研究东北部地区如何融入泰族国家的书。
An insurrection by northeasterners was brutally repressed by government troops in 1902. Half a century later, an authoritarian government ordered the killings of a number of prominent northeastern politicians.
1902年，东北部地区的一场叛乱遭到了政府军的无情镇压。半个世纪之后，一个独裁政府下令诛杀了东北部地区的多位重要政治人物。
“There’s been a pattern of trying to negotiate a right to be recognized, to have a political voice and to determine their own future,” Mr. Keyes said of northeastern Thailand, whose inhabitants speak Lao, which is distinct but related to Thai. “We see a lot of echoes of that today.”
“这里的人们一直处于竭力争取权利的状态，争取得到承认，争取在政治上发声，争取能够决定自己的未来，”凯斯在谈及东北部地区时说道。“我们今天依然能看到大量类似的情况。”该地区的居民说的是佬语(Lao)，和泰语有所不同，但两者存在关联。
Electoral politics, and especially the rise of Mr. Thaksin’s party and its focus on rural areas, has allowed the northern part of Thailand to assert itself. Northeastern Thailand, once considered a backwater, is still poorer than Bangkok but outpaces the capital in economic growth. From relying almost exclusively on subsistence farming, the northeast now has industries, shopping malls and universities.
选举政治，尤其是他信所在党派的崛起及其对农村的关注，已经让北部地区得以显示自己的威力。一度被视为穷乡僻壤的泰国东北部地区，虽然还是不如曼谷富有，但其经济增长速度已经超过了首都。该地区从前几乎完全依赖于自给自足的农业生产，如今则有了自己的工业、购物中心和大学。
Home to a third of the country’s voters, the region now effectively makes or breaks governments. The government’s policies cater to the northeast, including a highly contentious program that pays farmers a price well above market rates for their rice — at great cost to the state.
作为泰国三分之一选民的家乡，该地区实际上既能让政府上台，也能让政府垮台。政府会在政策上迎合东北部地区，其中包括一个备受争议的、让政府付出了巨额成本的项目：以远高于市价的价格从农民手中收购大米。
For voters in Bangkok, that is hard to bear.
这让曼谷的选民难以忍受。
“I understand that democracy means being governed by a majority,” said Chaiwat Chairoongrueng, a 36-year-old civil servant protesting last week. “But you cannot use the majority to rule over everything.”
“我知道民主意味着由多数人执政，”现年36岁，曾在上周走上街头表示抗议的公务员猜瓦·谢尔龙格林格(Chaiwat Chairoongrueng)说，“但你不能拿‘大多数’来统治一切。”
Protesters did little to hide their sense of superiority, echoing the leaders of the demonstration who repeatedly described the demonstrators as “good people” fighting evil.
抗议者们毫不掩饰自己的优越感。与此相呼应的是，游行示威的领导者一遍又一遍地将游行者描绘成对抗恶行的“好人”。
“We are the middle class, we are educated and we know best,” said Saowanee Usanakornkul, 43, from southern Thailand who took part in the protest. “We know what is right and wrong,” she said. “But the poor don’t know anything. They elect the people who give them money.”
现年42岁、来自泰国南部的萨瓦尼·乌萨那空库(Saowanee Usanakornkul)也参加了抗议活动，她说，“我们是中产阶层，受过良好的教育，对一切都很清楚。我们知道什么是对什么是错，但穷人什么也不知道。谁给他们钱就选谁。”
In recent days, as the protests flared, Bangkok was rife with rumors about shadowy groups commandeering the demonstrations; the Thai news media carries perennial stories about the prospect for another coup.
连日来，随着抗议活动的爆发，曼谷城中充斥着关于游行示威的幕后操纵组织的各种谣言；泰国媒体则没完没了地传播着与再次发生政变的可能性有关的报道。
In discussing Thai politics soon after the last violent clashes in Bangkok — a military crackdown that left more than 90 people dead in 2010 — Benedict Anderson, an expert on Southeast Asia at Cornell, quoted the political thinker Antonio Gramsci to illustrate his fears: “When the old refuses to die, and the new is struggling to be born, monsters appear.”
曼谷上一次发生暴力冲突是在2010年，军事镇压导致超过90人丧生。那之后不久，康奈尔大学(Cornell)东南亚问题专家贝内迪克特·安德森(Benedict Anderson)在讨论泰国政治时，引用了政治思想家安东尼奥·葛兰西(Antonio Gramsci)的话来表达自己的忧虑：“旧的拒绝死亡，新的又奋力获得诞生，这时候怪物便出现了。”
Mr. Nidhi, the historian, said it might be years before Thailand reached a new ruling consensus and the country was more settled.
历史学家伊奥希翁说，或许还要经过很多年，泰国各界才能达成新的治国理政共识，那时这个国家才能变得更加安定。
“In all societies, politics needs time to adjust to large social transformations,” he said. “You have to give Thailand more time.”
“在所有社会中，政治都需要一些时间来适应巨大的社会变革，”他说。“你必须给泰国更多的时间。”