BAD NEWS SELLS. If it bleeds, it leads. No news is good news, and good news is no news.
坏新闻才有销路。只要有流血，就能上头条。没有新闻，那是好事。好消息，不算新闻。
Those are the classic rules for the evening broadcasts and the morning papers, based partly on data (ratings and circulation) and partly on the gut instincts of producers and editors. Wars, earthquakes, plagues, floods, fires, sick children, murdered spouses — the more suffering and mayhem, the more coverage.
这些是晚间广播和早间报纸的经典法则，部分是基于数据，包括评级和销量，部分是基于新闻制作人和编辑的本能直觉。战争、地震、瘟疫、洪水、火灾、患病儿童、谋杀配偶——痛苦和杀戮越多，报道量就越大。
But now that information is being spread and monitored in different ways, researchers are discovering new rules. By scanning people’s brains and tracking their e-mails and online posts, neuroscientists and psychologists have found that good news can spread faster and farther than disasters and sob stories.
但现在，随着信息以各种不同方式被传播和关注，研究者们正在发现新的法则。通过扫描人们的大脑，并跟踪他们的电子邮件和网上帖子，神经学家和心理学家发现，好新闻比灾难和悲伤的报道传播得更快、更远。
“The ‘if it bleeds’ rule works for mass media that just want you to tune in,” says Jonah Berger, a social psychologist at the University of Pennsylvania. “They want your eyeballs and don’t care how you’re feeling. But when you share a story with your friends and peers, you care a lot more how they react. You don’t want them to think of you as a Debbie Downer.”
“‘只要流血’的法则对于大众传媒来说有效，他们只是要你关注，”宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)社会心理学家乔纳·伯杰(Jonah Berger)说。“他们只想夺人眼球，却不顾人们的感受。但当人们与朋友和同事分享一个故事时，他们会非常关心对方的反应。人们不想让别人把自己当成沮丧的黛比(Debbie Downer)。”
Researchers analyzing word-of-mouth communication — e-mails, Web posts and reviews, face-to-face conversations — found that it tended to be more positive than negative, but that didn’t necessarily mean people preferred positive news. Was positive news shared more often simply because people experienced more good things than bad things?
研究者们分析了口碑传播，包括电子邮件、网页上的帖子和评论，以及面对面的交谈。他们发现其内容更倾向于积极而非消极，但这并不一定意味着人们喜欢积极的新闻。积极新闻更经常被人分享，是否仅仅意味着人们所经历的好事情多于坏事情呢？
To test for that possibility, Dr. Berger looked at how people spread a particular set of news stories: thousands of articles on The New York Times’s Web site. He and Katherine Milkman, a Penn colleague, analyzed the “most e-mailed” list for six months, controlling for factors like how much display an article received in different parts of the home page.
为了测试这种可能性，伯杰博士关注了人们如何传播一组特定的新闻故事：《纽约时报》网站上的几千篇文章。他和宾夕法尼亚大学的同事凯瑟琳·米尔克曼(Katherine Milkman)分析了六个月内的“电子邮件转发最多”的列表，并考虑了一些造成影响的因素，例如一篇文章在主页的不同区域得到了多大的显示面。
One of his first findings to be reported — which I still consider the most important social-science discovery of the past century — was that articles and columns in the Science section were much more likely to make the list than nonscience articles. He found that science aroused feelings of awe and made Times readers want to share this positive emotion with others.
他的研究发现中最先得到报道的，包括这样一个结论：科学版的报道和专栏文章似乎比非科学报道更多地被转发。我仍旧认为这是上个世纪最重要的社会科学发现。他发现，科学会激起敬畏感，令《纽约时报》读者想要把这份积极情绪与他人分享。
Readers also tended to share articles that were exciting or funny, or that inspired negative emotions like anger or anxiety, but not articles that left them merely sad. They needed to be aroused one way or the other, and they preferred good news to bad. The more positive an article, the more likely it was to be shared, as Dr. Berger explains in his new book, “Contagious: Why Things Catch On.”
读者还倾向于分享令人兴奋或有趣的文章，或那些激发愤怒或焦虑之类负面情绪的文章，但并非那些仅让他们难过的文章。总之，他们需要被激起某种情绪，而且他们喜欢好新闻胜过坏新闻。一篇文章越积极正面，似乎就将得到越多分享，就像伯杰博士在他的新书《传播性：为什么事情会流行起来》(Contagious: Why Things Catch On)中所解释的一样。
“Stories about newcomers falling in love with New York City,” he writes, were more likely to be e-mailed than “pieces that detailed things like the death of a popular zookeeper.” Debbie Downer is apparently no match for Polly Positive, at least among Times readers.
他写道，“新来者爱上纽约市之类的报道”，比“受欢迎的动物园管理员之死的细节报道文章”更多地被以电子邮件转发。“沮丧的黛比”明显赶不上“积极的波莉”(Polly Positive)，至少在《纽约时报》的读者中是这样。
In another attempt to understand what’s buzzworthy, neuroscientists have scanned the brains of people while they hear about new ideas. Then, as these people told others about what they had heard, the scientists observed which ideas spread and which didn’t.
在另一个对理解什么是值得广泛关注的尝试中，神经学家在人们听到新闻时扫描他们的大脑。随后，在这些人告诉其他人他们所听到的新闻时，科学家观察哪些新闻被传播，哪些没有。
You might predict that people would pass along the most memorable ideas — the ones that lighted up the brain regions associated with encoding and retrieving memories. But that’s not what happened in the experiments, which were conducted by Emily Falk along with colleagues at the University of Michigan and researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles.
你大概会想，人们将传播那些最能被记住的新闻，这些新闻会使大脑编码和检索记忆的区域亮起来。但试验中所发生的并非如此。这些实验由密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的埃米莉·福尔克(Emily Falk)及其同事，和加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的研究者们共同完成。
The best predictors of buzz were elsewhere, in the brain regions associated with social cognition — thoughts about other people. If those regions lighted up when something was heard, people were more likely to talk about the idea enthusiastically, and the idea would keep spreading.
更准确预测哪些信息被传播的，是大脑的另一个区域，一个与社会认知相关的区域，即考虑他人的区域。当听到某些事情时，如果这些区域亮起来，人们将更有可能热烈地谈论这个消息，而且这个消息还将继续传播。
“You’d expect people to be most enthusiastic and opinionated and successful in spreading ideas that they themselves are excited about,” says Dr. Falk. “But our research suggests that’s not the whole story. Thinking about what appeals to others may be even more important.”
“你大概会估计，人们传播自己最感兴趣的信息时会最积极，最有话说，”福尔克博士说。“但我们的研究显示，这并非事实的全部。考虑哪些信息让别人感兴趣，可能更重要。”
This social consciousness comes into play when people are sharing information about their favorite subject of all: themselves. This is intrinsically pleasurable and activates the brain regions associated with rewards like food, as demonstrated in a study by Diana Tamir and Jason Mitchell of Harvard. In fact, the study showed, it’s so pleasurable that people will pass up monetary rewards for the chance to talk about themselves.
在人们分享有关他们最喜欢的话题——他们自己——的信息时，这种社会意识就会发挥作用。这种分享本身给人愉悦感，也能激发大脑与奖励（比如食物）有关的区域。哈佛大学的黛安娜·塔米尔(Diana Tamir)和贾森·米切尔(Jason Mitchell)在研究中展示了这一点。实际上，这项研究显示，这种分享是如此令人愉悦，以至于人们宁愿放弃金钱奖励，也要争取谈论他们自己的机会。
Past research into everyday conversation showed that a third of it is devoted to oneself, but today that topic has become an obsession thanks to social media. Rutgers researchers classify 80 percent of Twitter users as "meformers" who tweet mainly about themselves.
过去对于日常谈话的研究显示，三分之一的日常会话是关注说者本人。而今天，得益于社交媒体，关于自己的话题已经成了一种痴迷。罗格斯大学(Rutgers)研究者把80%的Twitter用户划分为“自我信息传播者”(meformers)，他们发的留言大部分都是关于他们自己。
The result is even more Polly Positivity, and not just because people are so adept at what psychologists call self-presentation: pointing out one’s own wonderfulness. While people have always said nice things about themselves in traditional conversations and saved the nastier comments for others, today they’re more diligent in spreading the word through written media like e-mail, Facebook and Twitter.
其结果，就是更加“积极的波莉”，而这不仅是因为人们如此擅长心理学家所谓的自我表现，表达自身的精彩。在传统的对话中，人们通常会对自己褒奖有加，而把糟糕的评论留给他人；今天，他们则更加积极地通过电子邮件、Facebook和Twitter等文字媒体来传播信息。
“In most oral conversations, we don’t have time to think about exactly the right thing to say,” Dr. Berger explains. “We fill conversational spaces by saying what’s top of mind. But when you write something, you have the time to construct and refine what you say, so it involves more self-presentation.”
“在大多数口头对话中，我们没有时间来思考怎么说才正确，”伯杰博士解释说。“我们以脑中想到的第一件事情来填补会话的空间。但当你在写东西的时候，你有时间来组织和精炼你要说的内容，所以这会包含更多自我表现。”
Dr. Berger’s experiments have shown that people say more positive things when they’re talking to a bigger audience, rather than just one person — a result that helps explain the relentlessly perfect vacations that keep showing up on Facebook.
伯杰博士的实验显示，当人们向更多的人，而不仅是一个人说话时，他们会说些更加积极的东西。这一结果有助于解释为何完美的假期总是不断地出现在Facebook上。
But does all this positivity actually make the audience feel any better? Not necessarily. A study in Utah showed that the longer people spend on Facebook, the more they think that life is unfair and that they’re less happy than their “friends.”
但是否所有这些积极的事情，都让听众感觉好些呢？这倒不一定。犹他大学(Utah)的一次研究显示，人们在Facebook上花的时间越长，他们越感到生活不公，认为自己不如他们的“朋友们”幸福。
Similar results were observed in Germany by a team led by Hanna Krasnova, which recently reported a “rampant nature of envy” and other “invidious emotions” among heavy users of Facebook.
在德国，一个由汉娜·克拉斯诺娃(Hanna Krasnova)带领的小组也发现了相似的结果。他们最近报告，说观察到频繁使用Facebook的用户表现出“疯狂的嫉妒”和其他“忿忿不平的情绪”。