Between the fall of 2011 and the spring of 2012, people across the United States suddenly found themselves unable to get their hands on A.D.H.D. medication. Low-dose generics were particularly in short supply. There were several factors contributing to the shortage, but the main cause was that supply was suddenly being outpaced by demand.
在2011年秋季至2012年春季之间，全美国的人突然惊觉，他们再也买不到治疗注意力缺陷多动障碍（Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder，简称A.D.H.D. ，此前通常称为“多动症”——译注）的药了。低剂量类的药供应尤为紧缺。该类药品短缺的背后有不少因素，但最主要的原因是供应跟不上突然爆发的增长。
The number of diagnoses of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder has ballooned over the past few decades. Before the early 1990s, fewer than 5 percent of school-age kids were thought to have A.D.H.D. Earlier this year, data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed that 11 percent of children ages 4 to 17 had at some point received the diagnosis — and that doesn’t even include first-time diagnoses in adults. (Full disclosure: I’m one of them.)
在过去几年里，注意力缺陷多动障碍的确诊数量飞速增长。在20世纪90年代早期之前，只有不到5%的学龄儿童被诊断患有注意力缺陷多动障碍。在今年早些时候，美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)提供的数据显示，在4岁至17岁的孩子中，有11%都在某阶段确诊患有此症——而且这个数据还不包括那些首次检出患病的成人（开诚布公地说：我是其中一个）。
That amounts to millions of extra people receiving regular doses of stimulant drugs to keep neurological symptoms in check. For a lot of us, the diagnosis and subsequent treatments — both behavioral and pharmaceutical — have proved helpful. But still: Where did we all come from? Were that many Americans always pathologically hyperactive and unable to focus, and only now are getting the treatment they need?
这多出来的几百万患者要接受常规剂量的兴奋型药物，来保持神经系统处在可控状态。对我们之中的很多人来说，这些诊断以及随之而来的治疗——行为上以及药物上的——都被证明是有效的。但还是有问题存在：我们是从哪儿染上了这种病？是不是许多美国人一直都处于病态过度活跃状态，没有办法集中注意力，而只不过直到现在才接受了他们所需要的治疗？
Probably not. Of the 6.4 million kids who have been given diagnoses of A.D.H.D., a large percentage are unlikely to have any kind of physiological difference that would make them more distractible than the average non-A.D.H.D. kid. It’s also doubtful that biological or environmental changes are making physiological differences more prevalent. Instead, the rapid increase in people with A.D.H.D. probably has more to do with sociological factors — changes in the way we school our children, in the way we interact with doctors and in what we expect from our kids.
也许不是这样。在640万被确诊患注意力缺陷多动障碍的儿童中，有很大一部分与普通的未患该症的儿童相比，并没有什么生理上的差异导致他们更容易分心。生物性或者环境上的改变是否导致了生理的变化，目前也是存疑的。相反，患注意力缺陷多动障碍人数的快速增长也许与社会学因素有着更密切的关系——我们教育孩子方法的改变，我们与医生交流方式的改变，以及我们对孩子的期望的改变。
Which is not to say that A.D.H.D. is a made-up disorder. In fact, there’s compelling evidence that it has a strong genetic basis. Scientists often study twins to examine whether certain behaviors and traits are inborn. They do this by comparing identical twins (who share almost 100 percent of the same genes) with fraternal twins (who share about half their genes). If a disorder has a genetic basis, then identical twins will be more likely to share it than fraternal twins. In 2010, researchers at Michigan State University analyzed 22 different studies of twins and found that the traits of hyperactivity and inattentiveness were highly inheritable. Numerous brain-imaging studies have also shown distinct differences between the brains of people given diagnoses of A.D.H.D. and those not — including evidence that some with A.D.H.D. may have fewer receptors in certain regions for the chemical messenger dopamine, which would impair the brain’s ability to function in top form.
我并不是在说注意力缺陷多动障碍是人为制造的疾病。事实上，有非常有力的证据证明它是有强大的基因基础的。科学家们经常把双胞胎当作对象来研究某些特定行为与特征是否是与生俱来的。他们的做法是比较同卵双胞胎（几乎拥有100%等同的基因）与异卵双胞胎（拥有50%等同基因）。如果一种疾病有基因基础，那同卵双胞胎同时得病的可能性就会比异卵双胞胎高。2010年，密歇根大学(Michigan State University)的研究者们分析了22项针对双胞胎的不同研究，发现多动与注意力缺失的可遗传性是很高的。许多影像学研究也显示，被诊断为注意力缺陷多动障碍的患者的大脑与其他人的大脑有着清晰的差别——包括有证据证明该症患者脑部的特定区域中用来接受传递化学信息的多巴胺的受体可能比其他人少，这有可能会削弱大脑在最佳状态下运转的能力。
None of that research yet translates into an objective diagnostic approach, however. Before I received my diagnosis, I spent multiple sessions with a psychiatrist who interviewed me and my husband, took a health history from my doctor and administered several intelligence tests. That’s not the norm, though, and not only because I was given my diagnosis as an adult. Most children are given the diagnosis on the basis of a short visit with their pediatrician. In fact, the diagnosis can be as simple as prescribing Ritalin to a child and telling the parents to see if it helps improve their school performance.
不过，这些研究并没有转化成客观的诊断方法。在接到确诊前，我曾与一位精神科医生会面了几次，这位医生与我和我的丈夫进行了面谈，从我的医生那里拿走了一份病历，还让我做了几个智力测试。但这并不是通常的做法，也不仅仅是因为我是以成年人的身份被确诊才会这样。大多数儿童是在与他们的小儿科医师进行短暂接触的基础之上被诊断为患病的。事实上，这个诊断可能就是这么简单：给孩子开利他林（Ritalin，中枢兴奋药物——译注），告诉家长注意观察这个孩子在学校的表现能否改进。
This lack of rigor leaves room for plenty of diagnoses that are based on something other than biology. Case in point: The beginning of A.D.H.D. as an “epidemic” corresponds with a couple of important policy changes that incentivized diagnosis. The incorporation of A.D.H.D. under the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act in 1991 — and a subsequent overhaul of the Food and Drug Administration in 1997 that allowed drug companies to more easily market directly to the public — were hugely influential, according to Adam Rafalovich, a sociologist at Pacific University in Oregon. For the first time, the diagnosis came with an upside — access to tutors, for instance, and time allowances on standardized tests. By the late 1990s, as more parents and teachers became aware that A.D.H.D. existed, and that there were drugs to treat it, the diagnosis became increasingly normalized, until it was viewed by many as just another part of the experience of childhood.
不够严谨的态度为大量建立在生物学以外的基础上的诊断创造了空间。举例来说：注意力缺陷多动障碍作为一种“流行病”的开始与一系列鼓励诊断的重要政策变化有关。来自位于俄勒冈州的太平洋大学(Pacific University)的社会学家亚当·拉法洛维奇(Adam Rafalovich)认为，在1991年，注意力缺陷多动障碍被列入《残障教育法案》(Individuals with Disabilities Education Act)——随之而来的是食品药物管理局(Food and Drug Administration)在1997年的一次大改革，允许制药公司更便捷地直接面向公众做宣传——具有极大影响力。这是第一次，获得该病的确诊能带来种种好处——比如说，能得到家教辅导，在标准化测试中考试时间还能得到宽限。到了20世纪90年代晚期，越来越多家长与教师意识到了注意力缺陷多动障碍的存在，同时知道它有药可医，该病的诊断变得越来越常见，时至今日，在很多人看来，它只不过是童年经历的一个部分而已。
Stephen Hinshaw, a professor of psychology at University of California, Berkeley, has found another telling correlation. Hinshaw was struck by the disorder’s uneven geographical distribution. In 2007, 15.6 percent of kids between the ages of 4 and 17 in North Carolina had at some point received an A.D.H.D. diagnosis. In California, that number was 6.2 percent. This disparity between the two states is representative of big differences, generally speaking, in the rates of diagnosis between the South and West. Even after Hinshaw’s team accounted for differences like race and income, they still found that kids in North Carolina were nearly twice as likely to be given diagnoses of A.D.H.D. as those in California.
斯蒂芬·欣肖(Stephen Hinshaw)是加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的心理学教授，他发现另一个显著的相关性因素。欣肖对这种疾病极不均衡的地理分布感到十分震惊。2007年，在北卡罗来纳州，有15.6%的4至17岁孩子都在某一时期内被确诊患有该病。而在加州，这个数据为6.2%。总的来说，两州之间的数据差异代表了美国南部与西部该病确诊率的巨大差异。甚至在欣肖的团队把排除了种族与收入等因素后，他们还是发现在北卡州被确诊为患有注意力缺陷多动障碍的孩子差不多是在加州的两倍。
Hinshaw, as well as sociologists like Rafalovich and Peter Conrad of Brandeis University, argues that such numbers are evidence of sociological influences on the rise in A.D.H.D. diagnoses. In trying to narrow down what those influences might be, Hinshaw evaluated differences between diagnostic tools, types of health insurance, cultural values and public perceptions of mental illness. Nothing seemed to explain the difference — until he looked at educational policies.
和拉法洛维奇以及布兰迪斯大学(Brandeis University)的彼得·康拉德(Peter Conrad)等社会学家一样，欣肖也认为这类数据是社会学因素对于注意力缺陷多动障碍确诊数量上升的影响的证明。为了缩小这些影响可能存在的范围，欣肖衡量了诊断工具、医保种类、文化价值观以及公众对精神疾病的理解之间的差别。这些看起来都无法解释这种差异——直到他把目光转向教育政策。
The No Child Left Behind Act, signed into law by President George W. Bush, was the first federal effort to link school financing to standardized-test performance. But various states had been slowly rolling out similar policies for the last three decades. North Carolina was one of the first to adopt such a program; California was one of the last. The correlations between the implementation of these laws and the rates of A.D.H.D. diagnosis matched on a regional scale as well. When Hinshaw compared the rollout of these school policies with incidences of A.D.H.D., he found that when a state passed laws punishing or rewarding schools for their standardized-test scores, A.D.H.D. diagnoses in that state would increase not long afterward. Nationwide, the rates of A.D.H.D. diagnosis increased by 22 percent in the first four years after No Child Left Behind was implemented.
由乔治·布什(George W. Bush)签署的“有教无类法案”(No Child Left Behind Act)是第一项将学校的财政拨款与标准化考试成绩联系在一起的联邦法案。但是在过去30年中，各州都在缓慢推行类似的政策。北卡罗来纳州是首批引进这种项目的州之一；而加州是最末一批中的一员。这些法律的施行与注意力缺陷多动障碍确诊率之间的关联在地域范围内也是成立的。当欣肖把这些学校政策与注意力缺陷多动障碍的发生率进行比对时，他发现当一个州通过视标准化考试得分对学校进行赏罚的法律时，不久之后该州的注意力缺陷多动障碍诊断就会上升。在全美国范围内，在“有教无类法案”颁布后的前四年，注意力缺陷多动障碍诊断率增长了22%。
To be clear: Those are correlations, not causal links. But A.D.H.D., education policies, disability protections and advertising freedoms all appear to wink suggestively at one another. From parents’ and teachers’ perspectives, the diagnosis is considered a success if the medication improves kids’ ability to perform on tests and calms them down enough so that they’re not a distraction to others. (In some school districts, an A.D.H.D. diagnosis also results in that child’s test score being removed from the school’s official average.) Writ large, Hinshaw says, these incentives conspire to boost the diagnosis of the disorder, regardless of its biological prevalence.
在此要说清楚的是：这些是相关性，并不是因果联系。但注意力缺陷多动障碍、教育政策、身心残障者保护以及广告宣传自由，林林总总好像在对彼此眨眼暗示。从家长和教师的角度来说，如果药物提高了孩子在考试中的表现，让他们平静下来不再让其他人分心的话，确诊算得上是一种成功。（在有些学区，确诊注意力缺陷多动障碍的儿童，其考试成绩不计入学校的平均分统计。）欣肖说，明显可见的是，撇开生物学上的流行性，是这些动因合力导致了该疾病确诊数量的大爆发。
Rates of A.D.H.D. diagnosis also vary widely from country to country. In 2003, when nearly 8 percent of American kids had been given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D., only about 2 percent of children in Britain had. According to the British National Health Service, the estimate of kids affected by A.D.H.D. there is now as high as 5 percent. Why would Britain have such a comparatively low incidence of the disorder? But also, why is that incidence on the rise?
注意力缺陷多动障碍的确诊率在国家与国家之间也有着很大的差异。在2003年，当近8%的美国孩子被确诊为患有注意力缺陷多动障碍时，只有2%的英国孩子拿到了相同的诊断书。据英国国家健康中心(British National Health Service)估计，患有注意力缺陷多动障碍的孩子现在已经高达5%。为什么英国有相对较低的发病率呢？可是为什么他们的发病率也在升高？
Conrad says both questions are linked to the different ways our societies define disorders. In the United States, we base those definitions on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (D.S.M.), while Europeans have historically used the International Classification of Diseases (I.C.D.). “The I.C.D. has much stricter guidelines for diagnosis,” Conrad says. “But, for a variety of reasons, the D.S.M. has become more widely used in more places.” Conrad, who’s currently researching the spread of A.D.H.D. diagnosis rates, believes that America is essentially exporting the D.S.M. definition and the medicalized response to it. A result, he says, is that “now we see higher and higher prevalence rates outside the United States.”
康拉德表示，这两个问题都与社会定义疾病的方法不同有关。在美国，我们根据精神疾病诊断与统计手册（The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders，简称为D.S.M.）做出诊断，而欧洲人则一直使用国际疾病分类（international Classification of diseases，简称为I.C.D.）。“I.C.D.对于诊断的指导要求要严格得多，”康拉德说，“但是，因为很多原因，D.S.M.在更多地方得以更广泛使用。”康拉德现在正在研究注意力缺陷多动障碍确诊率的上升，他相信美国正在向外输出D.S.M.的疾病定义以及相应的医疗措施。他认为，其结果是“现在我们看到在美国之外越来越高的发病率。”
According to Joel Nigg, professor of psychiatry at Oregon Health and Science University, this is part of a broader trend in America: the medicalization of traits that previous generations might have dealt with in other ways. Schools used to punish kids who wouldn’t sit still. Today we tend to see those kids as needing therapy and medicine. When people don’t fit in, we react by giving their behavior a label, either medicalizing it, criminalizing it or moralizing it, Nigg says.
俄勒冈健康与科学大学(Oregon Health and Science University)的精神病学教授乔尔·尼格(Joel Nigg)认为，这是在美国正在进行的一个更大风潮的一部分：过去几代人可能用其他方法处理的特定情况，如今都用医疗手段来处理了。学校曾经惩罚那些不能安静坐着的孩子。今天我们更多地认为这些孩子需要心理治疗和药物。尼格说，当有人不符合规矩时，我们就给他们的行为贴上标签，对其进行治疗、判其有罪或者向其进行说教。
For some kids, getting medicine might be a better outcome than being labeled a troublemaker. But of course there are also downsides, especially when there are so many incentives encouraging overdiagnosis. Medicalization can hurt people just as much as moralizing can. Not so long ago, homosexuality was officially considered a mental illness. And in a remarkable bit of societal blindness, the diagnosis of drapetomania was used to explain why black slaves would want to escape to freedom.
对有些孩子来说，吃药可能是比被贴上惹祸精这个标签更好的结局。但这样做当然也有坏的一面，特别是当有那么多动机都在鼓励过度诊断的时候。医学治疗可能像道德说教一样对人造成伤害。就在不久前，同性恋还被官方认为是一种精神疾病。而在某个时期有一个不同寻常的社会盲点，人们用“漂泊狂”这个诊断来解释为什么黑人奴隶想要逃跑获得自由。
Today many sociologists and neuroscientists believe that regardless of A.D.H.D.’s biological basis, the explosion in rates of diagnosis is caused by sociological factors — especially ones related to education and the changing expectations we have for kids. During the same 30 years when A.D.H.D. diagnoses increased, American childhood drastically changed. Even at the grade-school level, kids now have more homework, less recess and a lot less unstructured free time to relax and play. It’s easy to look at that situation and speculate how “A.D.H.D.” might have become a convenient societal catchall for what happens when kids are expected to be miniature adults. High-stakes standardized testing, increased competition for slots in top colleges, a less-and-less accommodating economy for those who don’t get into colleges but can no longer depend on the existence of blue-collar jobs — all of these are expressed through policy changes and cultural expectations, but they may also manifest themselves in more troubling ways — in the rising number of kids whose behavior has become pathologized.
如今，许多社会学家和神经系统科学家相信，在注意力缺陷多动障碍的生物学基础之外，确诊率的急剧增长是由社会学因素引起的——特别是那些与教育以及我们对孩子期望改变相关的因素。在该病确诊宗数增长的这30年中，美国人的童年也彻底改变了。甚至在小学阶段，孩子们的作业都增加了，休息时间减少了，用来放松与玩耍的自由支配时间更是少了许多。看着这样的情况，很容易就能看出来，当孩子被期望成为小大人的时候，注意力缺陷多动障碍何以成为了一个方便的社会万金油。高风险的标准化测试，进入顶尖大学的激烈竞争，越来越不景气的经济使得那些没上大学的人再也不能靠蓝领的工作维生——所有的这一切都从政策改变与文化期望中得到反映，但它们可能也通过更令人困扰的方式表现出来——就像是行为被归为病态的孩子数量上升。