AT the recent New York Times forum in Singapore, Eleonora Sharef, a co-founder of HireArt, was explaining what new skills employers were seeking from job applicants, but she really got the audience’s attention when she mentioned that her search firm was recently told by one employer that it wouldn’t look at any applicant for a marketing job who didn’t have at least 2,000 Twitter followers — and the more the better. She didn’t disclose the name of the firm, but she told me that it wasn’t Twitter.
前不久在新加坡举办的《纽约时报》论坛上，HireArt的联合创始人艾丽奥诺拉·谢里夫(Eleonora Sharef)阐述了雇主们希望求职者拥有哪些新技能，然而真正让人印象深刻的是她在演讲中提到的一件事: 一名雇主最近告诉她的招聘公司，在招市场营销人员时，他们不会考虑一位Twitter粉丝数不到2000的求职者——而且对求职者来说，Twitter关注者越多越好。她没有披露这家公司的名字，但是她告诉我，这家公司不是Twitter。
At a meeting with students at Fudan University in Shanghai a few days earlier, I was struck by how anxious some of the Chinese students were about the question: “Am I going to have a job?” If you’re a software engineer in China, you’ll do fine, also a factory worker — but a plain-old college grad? The Times reported earlier this year that in China today “among people in their early 20s, those with a college degree were four times as likely to be unemployed as those with only an elementary school education.”
几天前，我在上海的复旦大学与学生们见了面，让我深有感触的是，有一个问题让一些中国学生如此焦急，那就是：我能找到工作吗？ 如果你在中国是一名软件工程师，那肯定没问题，如果你是工厂工人，也没问题——但是一个普普通通的大学毕业生呢？根据《纽约时报》今年早些时候的报道，在中国，“20岁出头的人中，拥有大学学历的人失业的可能性是只有小学学历的人的四倍”。
Stories like these explain why I really hope that Obamacare succeeds. Say what?
类似的故事就是我真心希望奥巴马医改法案能够成功的原因。虽然这听起来有些古怪。
Here’s the logic: The Cold War era I grew up in was a world of insulated walls, both geopolitical and economic, so the pace of change was slower — you could work for the same company for 30 years — and because bosses had fewer alternatives, unions had greater leverage. The result was a middle class built on something called a high-wage or a decent-wage medium-skilled job, and the benefits that went with it.
理由如下：在我成长的冷战时期，世界充满了将人们彼此隔绝的墙壁，既包括地理上的，也包括经济上的，因此，变化发生的速度较为缓慢——你可能30年里都在为同一家公司工作——而且由于老板们的选择较少，工会有了更大筹码。结果是，一个中产阶级群体出现了，原因就是那些高薪酬或薪酬体面、中等技能要求的工作，以及它们提供的福利。
The proliferation of such jobs meant that many people could lead a middle-class lifestyle — with less education and more security — because they didn’t have to compete so directly with either a computer or a machine that could do their jobs faster and better (by far the biggest source of job churn) or against an Indian or Chinese who would do their jobs cheaper. And by a middle-class lifestyle, I don’t mean just scraping by. I mean having status: enough money to buy a house, enjoy some leisure and offer your kids the opportunity to do better than you.
这样的工作岗位的增多意味着许多人可以过上中产阶级的生活——不需要受很高的教育，但生活有更好的保障——因为他们不需要那么直接地与能够更快更好地完成他们工作的电脑或机器竞争（目前为止工作变动的最主要原因），也不需要与劳动力更廉价的印度人或中国人竞争。我所说的中产阶级的生活方式不是勉强度日。我指的是要有一定地位：有足够的钱买一栋房子，有一些闲暇时间，可以给子女提供机会，让他们能够过上更好的生活。
But thanks to the merger of globalization and the I.T. revolution that has unfolded over the last two decades — which is rapidly and radically transforming how knowledge and information are generated, disseminated and collaborated on to create value — “the high-wage, medium-skilled job is over,” says Stefanie Sanford, the chief of global policy and advocacy for the College Board. The only high-wage jobs that will support the kind of middle-class lifestyle of old will be high-skilled ones, requiring a commitment to rigorous education, adaptability and innovation, she added.
但是，由于过去20年全球化和信息技术革命的共同作用——它们正在迅速而彻底地变革着知识和信息的产生、传播和共同创造价值的方式——“高薪酬、中等技能要求的工作岗位已经不复存在，”美国大学理事会(College Board)全球政策和倡议主任斯蒂芬妮·桑福德(Stefanie Sanford)说。她补充说，唯一能够支持老式的中产阶级生活方式的高工资工作将是高技能要求的工作，需要任职者接受过严格的教育，拥有适应能力和创新能力。
But will even this prescription for creating enough jobs with decent middle-class incomes suffice, asks James Manyika, who leads research on economic and technology trends at the McKinsey Global Institute. While these prescriptions are certainly “correct,” notes Manyika, they “may not be enough to solve for the scale and nature of the problem.” The pace of technologically driven productivity growth, he said, suggests that we may not need as many workers to drive equivalent levels of output and G.D.P.
但是麦肯锡全球研究所(McKinsey Global Institute)负责经济和技术趋势研究的总监詹姆斯·马尼卡(James Manyika)问道，这个处方就能够制造出足够的、提供体面的中产阶级收入的工作岗位了吗？他指出，尽管这些处方毫无疑问是“正确”的，但可能还不足以应对这个问题的规模和性质。他说，受到科技驱动的生产力增长的速度意味着，为了获得同样水平的经济产出和GDP，我们可能不需要那么多的工人了。
As the M.I.T. economists Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee show in their book “Race Against the Machine,” for the last two centuries productivity, median income and employment all rose together. No longer. Now we have record productivity, wealth and innovation, yet median incomes are falling, inequality is rising and high unemployment remains persistent.
正如麻省理工学院(MIT)的经济学家安德鲁·麦卡菲(Andrew McAfee)和埃里克·布林约尔松(Erik Brynjolfsson)在他们的《与机器赛跑》(Race Against the Machine)一书中所言，过去两个世纪，生产力、收入中值和就业率同时增加了。这种情况已不复存在。现在我们有了前所未有的生产力、财富和创新能力，然而收入中值却在下降，不平等现象不断加剧，失业率居高不下。
To be sure, notes Manyika, a similar thing happened when we introduced technology to agriculture. We did not need as many people to produce food, so everybody shifted to manufacturing. As the same thing happened there, many people shifted to services.
马尼卡指出，毫无疑问，当我们把科技引入农业的时候，类似的事情发生了。我们不需要那么多的人来种粮食了，所以人们纷纷进入制造业。制造业也出现了同样的情况，于是许多人进入服务业。
But now, adds Manyika, “a growing share of high-paying services and knowledge work is also falling prey to technology.” And while new companies like Twitter are exciting, they do not employ people with high-paying jobs in large numbers. The economy and the service sector will still offer large numbers of jobs, but many simply may not sustain a true middle-class lifestyle.
但是现在，马尼卡补充说，“越来越多的高薪服务岗位和脑力劳动也成为了科技的战利品。”尽管Twitter这样的新公司令人兴奋，他们不会提供大量高薪工作。经济领域和服务领域仍然提供大量工作，但许多根本无法维持真正的中产生活方式。
As a result, argues Manyika, how we think about “employment” to sustain a middle-class lifestyle may need to expand “to include a broader set of possibilities for generating income” compared with the traditional job, with benefits and a well-grooved career path. To be in the middle class, you may need to consider not only high-skilled jobs, “but also more nontraditional forms of work,” explained Manyika. Work itself may have to be thought of as “a form of entrepreneurship” where you draw on all kinds of assets and skills to generate income.
因此，马尼卡说，我们对通过“就业”来维持中产阶级生活方式的思路可能需要拓宽，从而包括更宽泛的制造收入的可能性，而不是仅依靠传统的工作，以及它所提供的福利和清晰的职业路径。马尼卡解释说，为了成为中产阶级，你可能不仅需要考虑从事一份高技能的工作，“还要做更多非传统的工作”。工作本身可能需要被认为是一种企业的形式，你在工作中利用各种资产和技能来创造收入。
This could mean leveraging your skills through Task Rabbit, or your car through Uber, or your spare bedroom through AirBnB to add up to a middle-class income. 
这可能意味着通过Task Rabbit利用你的技能，或者通过Uber利用你的汽车，或者通过AirBnB利用你的闲置卧室，从而增加一些可以让你进入中产阶级的收入。
In the end, this transition we’re going through could prove more exciting than people think, but right now asking large numbers of people to go from being an “employee” to a “work entrepreneur” feels scary and uncertain. Having a national health care safety net under the vast majority of Americans — to ease and enable people to make this transition — is both morally right and in the interest of everyone who wants a stable society.
最后，我们将要经历的这个过渡可能比人们想的更令人兴奋，但是现在，要求许多人从一名“雇员”变成一个“工作企业家”，他们会感觉很害怕，而且没有安全感。让大部分美国人拥有国家医疗保健安全网的保障——让人们更容易地完成这种过渡——既符合道义，也符合每一个希望社会稳定的人的利益。