Mohsin Hamid’s latest novel boasts a startlingly distinctive voice, as commanding and unadorned as its title, “How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia.” But what may be most exciting about that voice — the whole book is delivered in the terse declarations of a mock self-help manual — is that it’s nothing like the voices we met in his two earlier novels. The first, “Moth Smoke,” was a moody, multipart evocation of party kids and S.U.V.’s in Lahore, poetically given life by Hamid as if to the manner born; his second, “The Reluctant Fundamentalist,” was a fast-moving monologue from a young Pakistani, educated at Princeton and once well employed in New York (as Hamid was), who’s returned to his homeland post-9/11 and lures a Daniel Pearl-like American into a confrontation.
穆赫辛·哈米德(Mohsin Hamid)的最新小说拥有极为独特的声音，它威严自信，不加修饰，就像其书名《如何在崛起的亚洲成为巨富》(How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia)一样。但是，这个声音中——整本书戏仿了励志自助指南，使用了简洁的宣言式句子——最令人兴奋的东西，也许就是它跟哈米德的前两部小说截然不同。哈米德的第一部小说《飞蛾扑烟》(Moth Smoke)对巴基斯坦拉合尔出入派对、驾驶跑车的年轻人的生活进行了多重展现，书中情绪阴郁，描绘栩栩如生，富有诗意；第二部小说《不情愿的原教旨主义者》(The Reluctant Fundamentalist)则是一名巴基斯坦年轻人的快节奏独白，主人公就读于普林斯顿大学，曾在纽约市有份好工作（就跟哈米德一样），9.11事件之后，他重返故土，把一个像丹尼尔·珀尔(Daniel Pearl)那样的美国人诱入到一场对抗中。
Hamid clearly has a voice, but it’s really a collection of voices; the tension in his work comes from the way he brings one side of himself (the Western-educated and the globally shrewd) against the other (the Pakistani). It’s as if he’s picked up different selves — competing perspectives — at every step along life’s way, so that sometimes the British resident in him surveys his native Pakistan; sometimes the Pakistani in him regards the Ivy League as it could be seen only from afar. Pick up one of his novels, and you never know what voice you’ll encounter.
哈米德显然拥有一种声音，但它实际上是一些声音的聚集；他作品中的张力，来源于他用自己的一个侧面（受过西方教育，拥有敏锐的全球视野）对照另一个侧面（他是巴基斯坦人）。这就如同他在生活道路上的每一步都选择了不同的自我——相互矛盾的观点——所以，有时他内心中的英国居民会审视他的巴基斯坦故乡；有时，他内心中的巴基斯坦人又会以一种只能远观才会有的眼光打量常青藤名牌大学。当你拿起他的一本小说时，你永远不知道会遇到哪种声音。
Writing teachers across the land still urge students, “Find your voice”; publishers are notoriously eager to discover any new writer with as engaging and exceptional a voice as, say, Alice Munro or (the wonderfully mongrel, as it happens) Junot Díaz. But Hamid ushers us into a contemporary world in which, for many, to settle on any one voice is a lie, a betrayal of all the other voices inside us that are equally authentic. As Zadie Smith suggests in her brilliant essay “Speaking in Tongues,” a Barack Obama can speak to black folks in a church and to a Harvard Law School class in entirely different accents, and yet still be himself on both occasions. The burden of being many-voiced is that any style you choose fails to do justice to the many other positions you could take; the blessing is that you can be wise to yourself, as Smith so obviously is, repudiating her previous novels with each new offering. Her extraordinary collection of essays is, perfectly, titled “Changing My Mind.”
全国各地写作教师仍然在敦促学生们“找到你的声音”；出版社渴望发现像爱丽丝·门罗(Alice Munro)或者（碰巧是绝妙地混合起来的）朱诺特·迪亚斯(Junot Díaz)那样有着迷人、非凡声音的新作家。但哈米德引领我们进入了一个现代世界，对于许多人来说，在这个世界里安于任何一个声音都是谎言，是对我们内心所有其他具有同等效力的声音的背叛。正如扎迪·史密斯(Zadie Smith)在其妙文《使用方言》(Speaking in Tongues)中所说，奥巴马可以在教堂对黑人同胞讲话时，跟在哈佛大学法学院讲话时采用完全不同的口音，但在这两种场合中他都仍然展现了真实的自己。采用多个声音的负累在于，你选择的任何一种风格都无法妥贴表达你可以采取的其他许多立场；好处则是你可以对它善加利用，史密斯显然就是这样做的：带着新意重复自己以前的小说。她非凡的散文集有一个恰如其分的标题：《变化我心意》(Changing My Mind)。
To some extent this is true of all of us. Look at your out-box: in the past hour you may have sent e-mails to mother, partner, boss and child, possibly even describing the same party. But each one is likely to have been written in a very different voice, and even to have treated the event quite differently — not to do so would be a form of insensitivity. “A man has as many social selves as there are individuals who recognize him,” as William James had it. It’s the man who doesn’t change his voice according to his audience who seems scary, locked inside his own assumptions.
在某种程度上，我们所有人都是如此。看看你的发件箱：在过去的一个小时中，你可能给母亲、合伙人、老板和孩子都发过电邮，甚至跟他们提到了同一个派对。但是每一封电邮也许都用截然不同的声音写成，甚至对派对的描述也可能大不相同——不这样做就是某种形式的不通人情。正如威廉·詹姆斯(William James)所说：“有多少人能认出你，你就有多少个社交侧面。”不根据听众不同而变化声音的那种人未免有些可怕，他们锁定在了自己的臆想之中。
At its core, writing is about cutting beneath every social expectation to get to the voice you have when no one is listening. It’s about finding something true, the voice that lies beneath all words. But the paradox of writing is that everyone at her desk finds that the stunning passage written in the morning seems flat three hours later, and by the time it’s rewritten, the original version will look dazzling again. Our moods, our beings are as changeable as the sky (long hours at any writing project teach us), so we can no longer trust any one voice as definitive or lasting.
就其核心而言，写作意味着在无人倾听的时候，穿越每一个社会期望，抵达你自己的声音；意味着找到真实，找到藏伏在所有词句之下的那个声音。但写作的矛盾之处在于，你会发现你早晨写就的精彩文字，三个小时之后看上去似乎有些寡淡无味，而当你要改写它的时候，最初的版本又会再次显得光彩夺目。我们的情绪，以及我们自己，就像天空一样多变（任何需要花费较长时间写完的东西教会了我们这一点），所以我们不能再相信任何声音是确定不变或是持久的了。
This doesn’t mean the essential vision changes: Thomas Pynchon’s quirks and obsessive fascinations are as evident when he writes (as he does in two of his most recent novels) in a Southern California surfer-town Raymond Chandler style and in perfect, sonorous 18th-­century sentences. And even those who feel “Housekeeping” should sit in a different corner of the bookstore from Marilynne Robinson’s novels of roughly a quarter-­century later, “Gilead” and “Home,” may accept that the impressively searching writer has simply moved from the Emily Dickinson chamber of her youth, in Idaho, to an Emersonian duplex in Iowa. Most drama, much poetry is about a collision of voices, as Shakespeare gives us the sounds of Desdemona, Iago and Othello — three people inside him — and we lean forward to see who will prevail.
这并不意味着作者的基本洞察力发生了变化：当托马斯·品钦(Thomas Pynchon)以雷蒙德·钱德勒(Raymond Chandler)式的南加州冲浪小城风格写作时（他最新的几部小说中有两部就是如此），以及用完美的、堂皇的18世纪句子写作时，他的古怪特性以及执迷的魅力都展露无遗。即便你认为玛里琳·鲁宾逊(Marilynne Robinson)的《家政》(Housekeeping)跟她差不多四分之一个世纪之后的小说《基列》（Gilead）和《家》(Home)在书店里应该分别放在不同的类别下，也可以接受这位极为犀利的作家只不过是从她青年时代在爱达荷州的艾米莉·迪金森(Emily Dickinson)书室，移居到了艾奥瓦州爱默生式的联式房屋。大多数戏剧，以及很多诗歌，都是声音的碰撞，正如莎士比亚(Shakespeare)让我们听到了苔丝狄蒙娜(Desdemona)、伊阿古(Iago)和奥赛罗(Othello)——他内心里的三个人——的声音，而我们凝神注目，看看谁会成为主导。
Yet the evergreen virtue of “negative capability” — essentially, giving weight to many of the voices inside yourself without hungering for a resolution — is ever more urgent at a moment when the blogosphere encourages us to settle on one voice (loud, hyperbolic, self-branding) at the expense of anything nuanced or self-questioning. And when the reality-show aesthetic of the memoir refuses to acknowledge that we may be least ourselves when we are playing, or talking about ourselves in public.
然而，推崇“消极能力”——本质而言，即重视自己内心的多个声音，不急于做出一个决定——这个持久的美德，现在变得更加紧要了，因为博客圈鼓励我们安于一个声音（响亮、夸张、给自己加标签），无视任何微妙的差异，放弃自我反省。而且，回忆录的真人秀美学也拒绝承认我们在公共场合做戏或谈到自己的时候，可能是最不真实的自己。
What’s more, those people you might once have called “Other” are now in your neighborhood, in your bed, maybe even in yourself. That’s one reason David Mitchell, in his virtuoso debut, “Ghostwritten,” served up nine voices in eight countries, linked in only the most suggestive of ways. (In his subsequent epic, “Cloud Atlas,” he calmly stitches together centuries as nimbly as voices.) This is not mere Dickensian ventriloquism, but rather a point about similarity and difference in the global order.
而且，你可能曾经称之为“其他人”的那些人，现在就在你家附近，在你的床上，甚至在你自己内心里。为什么大卫·米切尔(David Mitchell)在他惊艳的处女作《幽灵代笔》(Ghostwritten)中描写了分散在8个国家的9个声音，并让它们以一种最具启发性的方式联系起来，这就是一个原因（在他随后的史诗性小说《云图》(Cloud Atlas)，米切尔平静地把不同世纪缝合在一起，像缝合声音一样灵活）。这关乎全球范围内的相似性和差异性，而不单单是狄更斯式的口技。
Or look at Zadie Smith’s fresh and challenging collage-­portrait of London, “NW”: each section comes to us in a different form, and the main character constantly switches back and forth between bookish and street talk, Jamaican and BBC English. The novel gives us a dazzling picture of a city where all the lines of race and class are jumbled; but it also advances a more personal inquiry as Smith, born to a Jamaican mother and a white English father, growing up in a modest, working-class part of London before remaking herself through literature at Cambridge, investigates what is lost when you change your name and what gained when you shift your neighborhood.
或者看看扎迪·史密斯的小说《NW》吧，它新颖，具有挑战性，是一幅伦敦的拼贴肖像画：每个章节都以不同的形式呈现在我们面前，而主人公也在文绉绉的措辞和市井俚语之间，在牙买加英语和BBC英语之间来回切换。《NW》为我们展现了一幅令人眼花缭乱的城市图景，在这个城市中，种族和阶层边界全都混杂在一起；此外，这部小说还推动了一个更加私人化的调查：作者想知道，当你改变名字时，你失去了什么，当你更换居民区时，你得到了什么。史密斯的母亲是牙买加人，父亲是英国白人，她生长在伦敦一个朴素的工薪阶层地区，后在剑桥大学文学系令自己脱胎换骨。
The ideal writer should be a Method actor of sorts, I’ve always felt: Meryl Streep can get so profoundly into Isak Dinesen, Margaret Thatcher and Karen Silkwood in part because she finds that corner in herself that rhymes with each one of them. We can evoke the people (or places) that move us by becoming them, since every subject worth taking on remakes us in its own image. In my first book, I thought it only right to describe the Philippines in a passionate, undefended, solicitous voice — to reflect what I saw in the place itself — and, five chapters later, to evoke Japan from a glassy remove, to speak for its cool and polished distances. Writing on the Dalai Lama, I work hard to espouse an analytical and logical and rigorous part of myself — to transmit by example those qualities most evident in him. And then, when I turn to writing about Graham Greene, I aspire to a more haunted, shriven, doubting (even English) voice.
理想的作家应该跟方法派演员有某种共通之处，我一直觉得：梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)之所以能够如此富于深度地演绎伊萨克·迪内森(Isak Dinesen)、玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)和卡伦·西尔克伍德(Karen Silkwood)，部分原因在于她发现自己内心里的某几个角落各自跟她们存在共鸣。通过变成感动我们的人（或地方），我们可以呈现他们，因为每一个值得呈现的主题都会以其自身的形象重新塑造我们。在我的第一本书里，我认为，只有用一个充满激情的、不设防的、关切的声音来描绘菲律宾才是恰当的——以反映我在菲律宾的所见所闻——而且，在五个章节之后，只有用一种光鲜的差别感来呈现日本，以展示其炫酷闪亮的遥远距离才是恰当的。在写《达赖喇嘛》(Dalai Lama)的时候，我努力发挥自己严谨、有分析能力、有逻辑的方面——以烘托他身上这些最明显的特质。而当我开始写格雷厄姆·格林(Graham Greene)的时候，我希望采用的则是一种更加苦恼的、被恕罪的、怀疑的（甚至是英国人的）声音。
All of us, as the neuroscientist David Eagleman points out, are “not of one mind. Everyone is of many minds all the time.” But how much more true of writers like Hamid or Smith — Hari Kunzru or Chang-rae Lee — who have inhabited so many different worlds that we (and they) can’t begin to say they exclusively “belong to” any. Perhaps finding the answer to that question — locating what Hamid calls in his new book “a plausible unitary self” — is part of what all their stylistic experiments are about. But in the meantime, what they are telling us is that for an increasing number of people worldwide, it’s only by remaining constantly mobile, keeping your voice as fluid and versatile as the world around you, that you can begin to be true to who you really are.
就像神经科学家大卫·伊格曼(David Eagleman)所指出的那样，我们所有人都“不是一心一意的。在任何时候，每个人都有多个心智”。但是，对于像哈米德或者史密斯——哈瑞伊·昆祖鲁(Hari Kunzru)或李昌来(Chang-rae Lee)——那样的作家来说，这个说法又会更加真切到何种地步呢？他们居住在那么多不同的世界中，以至于我们（以及他们）不能说他们完全“属于”某个地方。也许，他们进行所有这些写作体裁实验的主旨之一，就是找到这个问题的答案——找到哈米德在他的新作中所说的“合理统一的自我”。而与此同时，他们也告诉了我们，对于世界各地越来越多的人来说，只有一直保持变动，保持让你的声音像你周围的世界一样灵活，一样多姿多彩，你才能开始对你真正的自我保持真诚。