Louise Linton, wife of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, raised ire this week with an Instagram post depicting herself descending the steps of a government jet accompanied by the caption, “Great #daytrip to #Kentucky! #nicest #people #rolandmouret pants, #hermesscarf, #tomford sunnies, and #valentinorockstudheels #valentino #usa.” In the photos, the 36-year-old Scottish actress, who grew up in a castle and married Mr. Mnuchin, a multimillionaire, earlier this year, is clad in what appeared to be approximately $16,000 of luxurious cream wool crepe designer clothing and opulent accessories, which she dutifully tagged for any Real Americans currently in the market for thousand-dollar white pants.
本周，美国财政部长史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)的妻子露易丝·林顿(Louise Linton)在社交媒体Instagram上引起公愤。她晒出了自己在机长陪同下走下公务专机的照片，并写道“#肯塔基的愉快#短途出行！#人们#非常亲切#罗兰·穆雷(rolandmouret)长裤，#爱马仕丝巾，#汤姆·福特(tomford)墨镜，以及#华伦天奴(valentino)铆钉高跟鞋 #华伦天奴 #美国”。这位苏格兰女演员现年36岁，从小在城堡里长大，今年早些时候嫁给了亿万富翁姆努钦。照片上她身着价值约1.6万美元的奢华乳白羊毛绉绸名牌服装，满身配饰珠光宝气；她负责地一一标注这些商品，为想买几千美元白色长裤的“真正的美国人”提供参考。
Several Instagram commenters pointed out that, in a country where an estimated 43 million people live below the poverty line and 6.4 million children live with food insecurity, flaunting ostentatious wealth at least partially supported by taxpayer money goes beyond tackiness and approaches sadism. One user wrote: “Glad we could pay for your little getaway. #deplorable.” Added another: “Please don’t tag your Hermes scarf. Distasteful.”
好几位Instagram网友在评论中指出，美国目前约有4300万人生活在贫困线以下，640万儿童的食品没有保障，而林顿如此炫耀至少部分是由纳税人的钱换来的财富，这种行为已非低俗可以形容，而是近乎变态。有位网友写道：“我们很高兴为你的短途旅行埋单。#可耻。”还有人回复道：“请别给你那爱马仕丝巾加标签。没品味。”
In response, Ms. Linton posted a vertiginous wall of text suggesting that rich people are nobler and more self-sacrificing than poor people because they pay a lot of taxes, the tone implying that perhaps the serfs of Instagram would appreciate her scarf more if they weren’t so dung-caked. When Ms. Linton’s response, which contained the lines “Aw” and “Your life looks cute,” didn’t garner the ecstatic genuflection of the common people as expected, she made her account private. She later apologized, calling the post and her response “inappropriate and highly insensitive.”
对此，林顿回复了一大篇令人眼花缭乱的文字，暗示富人比穷人更高尚，更勇于自我牺牲，因为富人交了很多税；言下之意，Instagram上的这些草民如果不是土得掉渣，也许就会更欣赏她的丝巾了。林顿的回复里还有“哟”、“你的生活看起来真可爱”等词句。然而这段回复并未如她所料，引来老百姓的欢呼膜拜。于是，她把账号设成了私密状态。后来她又公开道歉，说自己的贴子和回复“不适当而且完全不顾他人感受”。
This, of course, is one of the classic social media bungles! Who hasn’t inadvertently posted an innocent outfit of the day that comes across as more stuck up than aspirational? Who can keep all this millennial etiquette straight when your Borzoi just spilled emeralds all over your laptop? Well, great news for busy public-service-minded citizens on the go: We’ve compiled an easy guide to help you show off your #shoegoals without implying that you’re #abetting a #violent #racist #kleptocracy. Just have your calligrapher transcribe it and you’re ready to ’Gram!
当然，这是一次典型的社交媒体错误操作！谁没有过不经意发了当日造型，结果没显得高端大气，反而被认为是高傲自大呢？你的俄国狼狗把绿宝石撒得笔记本电脑上到处都是的时候，谁还顾得上遵守这些千禧世代的礼仪？好消息，事务繁忙、一心为公的公民请注意：我们推出以下简易指南，教你如何炫耀你的#必买美鞋，还不会显得你是一个#暴力、#种族主义的#盗贼政权的帮凶。只需让你的誊写员抄写一遍这篇指南，你就可以到Instagram上尽情炫富去了！
DO: Share your good fortune! True friends take joy in one another’s successes, and the worldwide web is a great place to tell your fans and loved ones about your well-deserved windfalls and actualized dreams.
要：分享你的好运！真正的朋友能为彼此的成功感到由衷高兴，万维网特别适合向你的粉丝和挚爱展现你应得的横财和成真的美梦。
DON’T: Lay it on too thick. Instead of a florid tableaux in which you look like Khaleesi stooping to scatter millet for the teeming indigents of Slaver’s Bay to snarl and grub over, try a cute Starbucks selfie that shows off your new hat. Less is more. #hatgoals
不要：过分张扬。与其营造一幅华丽图景，让你看起来像是卡丽熙，屈尊为奴隶湾的遍地饥民抛撒小米，供他们哄抢，不如在可爱的星巴克自拍里晒出你的新帽子。少即是多。#必买美帽
DO: Express appreciation for the gifts the universe has given you. Less attitude, more gratitude.
要：为宇宙赐予你的礼物表达感激之情。少一点傲娇，多一点感恩。
DON’T: Express entitlement to United States government funds for decadent pleasure tours you, with your immense wealth, could easily afford yourself because America’s delusional obsession with rugged individualism deters voters from pushing for an overhaul of the tax code that might mitigate our staggering income disparity! Instead, maybe say “#blessed,” with a picture of your cold-pressed juice.
不要：有些豪华旅游你凭借自己的巨大财富就可以支付得起，不要因为美国人痴迷于粗糙的个人主义，导致选民不会去推动那些可能缩小我们的收入差距鸿沟的税制改革，就表现出你花政府的钱天经地义！不如写“#有福气”再配上冷榨果汁的照片。
DO: Build your personal brand.
要：打造你的个人品牌。
DON’T: Build your personal brand around conspicuous consumption in a cultural moment when the political administration that employs your husband and supposedly represents the interests of the struggling Everyman is actively trying to distance itself from a hostile foreign oligarchy.
不要：在这个文化上的敏感时刻通过烧钱摆阔来打造你的个人品牌。此刻，你丈夫任职的政府号称代表所有努力打拼的普通人的利益，却正在努力拉开自己与一个敌对的寡头国家的距离。
DO: Use hashtags so that ’Grammers with similar interests can find your latest snaps. For instance, the hashtag #humble helps you connect with other users who like things that are #humble! Try it out!
要：善用标签，让Instagram上有相似兴趣的人能看到你的更新。例如，“#谦卑”能把你和其他喜欢“#谦卑”的用户连结起来！试试吧！
DON’T: Use hashtags to let ’Grammers know that your handbag costs more than they pay in rent in a year, particularly if you’re married to the cabinet official who could help make homeownership and true, substantive, generational financial stability accessible for the working class, but probably won’t! Instead, try something more relatable, like #selfcare under a picture of you standing next to a horse. (Best not to mention that you own the horse and also the copyright to the concept of horses.)
不要：用标签让Instagram用户知道你的手包比他们一年的房租还贵，特别是考虑到你的内阁高官丈夫明明有能力协助实现工薪阶层买得起房，获得一代人的、真正的、实实在在的财富稳定，但却很可能不会那么做！相反，试试用一些更平易近人的标签，例如在你站在马旁边的照片下加上“#照顾自己”。（最好别提那匹马是你的，以及马这个概念的版权归你所有。）
DO: Accept criticism with a smile and an open mind. Not everyone is going to “get” you, and that’s O.K. Every callout is an opportunity to either improve yourself or model grace under fire. We are all just students in this university called life.
要：用微笑和开放的心态接受批评。不是每个人都会懂你，这没关系。每一次诘问都是一个机会，或者让你改进自我，或者让你表现出临事不惊的大度。在生活这所学校里，我们都只是学生。
DON’T: Get defensive and telegraph the fact that you feel unmitigated disdain toward those who weren’t fortunate enough to be born into money, marry into more money, then have their moneyed partner luck into a cushy six-figure government job with perks such as private jets and trips to #Kentucky. Before you tell a stranger that her complaint about the nation falling into the hands of cartoon rich people who can’t even forcefully denounce the Confederacy is really just the jealous squalling of a loser with a bad life, stop and think: Is this public? Will people see this? Am I a member of a humane, collective society or a capsule of pure consciousness floating in the void? Next, force your butler to eat your iPhone.
不要：开启防御模式，并流露出你多么鄙视那些不如你好运的人，他们没能像你一样生在富贵之家、嫁入豪门，而且有钱的配偶又幸运地捞到一个轻松且年薪六位数的政府公职，还附带福利，比如私人飞机，可以去“#肯塔基”旅行。陌生人抱怨美国已经落入了一群漫画式的富翁之后，甚至连强烈谴责南北战争中的南部邦联都做不到的时候，别急着反驳说这不过是她这种生活潦倒的人生输家的嫉妒心理，请三思：这里是公共场合吗？别人会看到我说的话吗？我是人道集体社会的一员，还是漂浮在虚空中的一股单纯的意识？然后，强迫你的男管家吃掉你的iPhone。
DO: Explore filters, which can hide imperfections and make sunsets pop!
要：尝试滤镜，美颜遮瑕，还能突显夕阳之美！
DON’T: Reveal your own deeply flawed filter on the world.
不要：暴露你自己有严重缺陷的世界观。