TWENTY-FIVE years ago, when I was a graduate student, there were departments of natural science that no longer exist today. Departments of anatomy, histology, biochemistry and physiology have disappeared, replaced by innovative departments of stem-cell biology, systems biology, neurobiology and molecular biophysics. Taking a page from Darwin, the natural sciences are evolving with the times. The perfection of cloning techniques gave rise to stem-cell biology; advances in computer science contributed to systems biology. Whole new fields of inquiry, as well as university departments and majors, owe their existence to fresh discoveries and novel tools.
25年前，当我还在读研究生的时候，大学里有一些今天已不复存在的自然科学系。解剖学、组织学、生物化学和生理学等系别已不见踪迹，取而代之的是一些创新学系，比如干细胞生物学、系统生物学、神经生物学和分子生物物理学。借用达尔文(Darwin)的话说就是，自然科学正随着时代的变迁而不断演化。克隆技术的完善带来了干细胞生物学；计算机科学的进步则催生了系统生物学。全新的探索领域，以及大学院系和专业的出现，应归功于新发现和新奇的工具。
In contrast, the social sciences have stagnated. They offer essentially the same set of academic departments and disciplines that they have for nearly 100 years: sociology, economics, anthropology, psychology and political science. This is not only boring but also counterproductive, constraining engagement with the scientific cutting edge and stifling the creation of new and useful knowledge. Such inertia reflects an unnecessary insecurity and conservatism, and helps explain why the social sciences don’t enjoy the same prestige as the natural sciences.
相比之下，社会科学一直停滞不前。如今的这套院系和学科设置与近100年前的情形基本相同，依然是社会学、经济学、人类学、心理学和政治学。这不仅令人乏味，而且往往适得其反，它不仅束缚了社会科学界进军科学前沿的脚步，还扼杀了新鲜、有益知识的创造。这种惯性反映出一种不必要的不安全感和保守主义，并有助于解释社会科学为什么无法享有与自然科学同等的声誉。
One reason citizens, politicians and university donors sometimes lack confidence in the social sciences is that social scientists too often miss the chance to declare victory and move on to new frontiers. Like natural scientists, they should be able to say, “We have figured this topic out to a reasonable degree of certainty, and we are now moving our attention to more exciting areas.” But they do not.
公民、政治家和大学捐助者有时对社会科学缺乏信心的原因之一是，社会科学家过于频繁地错失宣布胜利，并继续迈向新前沿的机会。他们应该能够像自然科学家那样宣布：“我们对这一课题的研究已经具备了一种合理的确定性。现在，我们正在把注意力转向更加令人兴奋的领域。”但他们没有这样做。
I’m not suggesting that social scientists stop teaching and investigating classic topics like monopoly power, racial profiling and health inequality. But everyone knows that monopoly power is bad for markets, that people are racially biased and that illness is unequally distributed by social class. There are diminishing returns from the continuing study of many such topics. And repeatedly observing these phenomena does not help us fix them.
我这样说并不是建议社会科学家停止教学工作，并放弃对垄断力量、种族定性和健康不平等这类经典课题的调查研究。但每个人都知道，垄断力量对市场有害，人们因种族问题而受到歧视，疾病在社会各阶层分布不均。继续研究大量此类课题的收益正在递减。反复观察这些现象无助于问题的解决。
So social scientists should devote a small palace guard to settled subjects and redeploy most of their forces to new fields like social neuroscience, behavioral economics, evolutionary psychology and social epigenetics, most of which, not coincidentally, lie at the intersection of the natural and social sciences. Behavioral economics, for example, has used psychology to radically reshape classical economics.
因此，社会科学家应该派遣少量宫廷卫士留守已有定论的学科，同时应将主力部队重新部署于全新领域，比如社会神经科学、行为经济学、进化心理学和社会表观遗传学。并非巧合的是，其中大部分学科恰好处于自然和社会科学的交汇处。例如，行为经济学通过运用心理学，从根本上重塑了古典经济学。
Such interdisciplinary efforts are also generating practical insights about fundamental problems like chronic illness, energy conservation, pandemic disease, intergenerational poverty and market panics. For example, a better understanding of the structure and function of human social networks is helping us understand which individuals within social systems have an outsize impact when it comes to the spread of germs or the spread of ideas. As a result, we now have at our disposal new ways to accelerate the adoption of desirable practices as diverse as vaccination in rural villages and seat-belt use among urban schoolchildren.
这种跨学科的努力也让学界对慢性疾病、能源节约、流行疾病、跨代贫穷和市场恐慌等根本性问题产生了不少实用见解。比如，对人类社会网络结构和功能的更深入理解，正在帮助我们了解社会系统中的哪些个体对病菌或思想的传播施加了巨大影响。因此，我们现在已经运用新方式来加快实施内容多样的可取做法，比如在农村地区推广疫苗接种，鼓励城市中小学生系安全带等等。
It is time to create new social science departments that reflect the breadth and complexity of the problems we face as well as the novelty of 21st-century science. These would include departments of biosocial science, network science, neuroeconomics, behavioral genetics and computational social science. Eventually, these departments would themselves be dismantled or transmuted as science continues to advance.
现在到了创建新的社会科学系的时候了。这些新学系不仅要体现出21世纪科学的新奇之处，更应该反映我们面临的种种问题的广度和复杂性。它们将包括生物社会科学、网络科学、神经经济学、行为遗传学和计算社会科学等系别。最终，随着科学的不断发展，这些学系自身也难逃被取消或蜕变的命运。
Some recent examples offer a glimpse of the potential. At Yale, the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs applies diverse social sciences to the study of international issues and offers a new major. At Harvard, the sub-discipline of physical anthropology, which increasingly relies on modern genetics, was hived off the anthropology department to make the department of human evolutionary biology. Still, such efforts are generally more like herds splitting up than like new species emerging. We have not yet changed the basic DNA of the social sciences. Failure to do so might even result in having the natural sciences co-opt topics rightly and beneficially in the purview of the social sciences.
最近的一些例子让我们有机会一窥这些社会科学的潜能。耶鲁大学(Yale)的杰克逊全球事务研究所(Jackson Institute for Global Affairs)应用不同的社会科学来研究国际问题，并开设了一门新专业。在哈佛大学(Harvard)，日益依赖现代遗传学的子学科人类体格学已经脱离人类学系，重新组建为人类进化生物学系。不过，诸如此类的努力通常更像是畜群分裂，而不是新物种出现。我们还没有改变社会科学的基因。未能做到这一点甚至有可能导致自然科学收编某些本属于社会科学范畴的课题——这是正确且有益的。
New social science departments could also help to better train students by engaging in new types of pedagogy. For example, in the natural sciences, even college freshmen do laboratory experiments. Why is this rare in the social sciences? When students learn about social phenomena, why don’t they go to the lab to examine them — how markets reach equilibrium, how people cooperate, how social ties are formed? Newly invented tools make this feasible. It is now possible to use the Internet to enlist thousands of people to participate in randomized experiments. This seems radical only because our current social science departments weren’t organized to teach this way.
采用全新的教学方法，也有助于新的社会科学系更好地培养学生。比如，在自然科学系，就连大一新生都在做实验。而在社会科学系，这一幕为什么如此罕见呢？当学生们了解社会现象的时候，他们为什么不去实验室悉心观察市场如何达到均衡，人们如何合作，社会关系如何形成等现象呢？新发明的工具让这种观察变得可行。学生们现在完全可以利用互联网招募数千人参加随机试验。只有一个原因让这种做法听起来有些激进。那就是，我们目前的社会科学系并没有按照这种方式组织教学活动。
For the past century, people have looked to the physical and biological sciences to solve important problems. The social sciences offer equal promise for improving human welfare; our lives can be greatly improved through a deeper understanding of individual and collective behavior. But to realize this promise, the social sciences, like the natural sciences, need to match their institutional structures to today’s intellectual challenges.
过去一个世纪以来，世人一直寄望于物理和生物科学来解决重大问题。社会科学同样可以提供改善人类福祉的美好前景；通过更深入地理解个人和集体行为，我们的生活有望获得显著改善。但要实现这一前景，社会学科需要效仿自然学科，建立与如今面临的智力挑战相匹配的体制结构。