Studio 6A, the Rockefeller Plaza home of NBC’s “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon,” was filled with artificial smoke and laser lights when Bard and Vegard Ylvisaker arrived. These Norwegian brothers, who had spent the previous days traveling from Oslo to London to New York, did not seem to be particularly fazed as they surveyed their surroundings, which included a squad of dancers in fox masks and makeup, two long rows of full-length mirrors and a man dressed in a head-to-toe horse costume.
洛克菲勒大厦的6A摄影棚是NBC台“吉米·法伦深夜秀”(Late Night With Jimmy Fallon)的拍摄地点，当巴德(Bard)与维加德·伊尔维萨克(Vegard Ylvisaker)到来时，整个屋子里弥漫着人造烟雾和激光。这对挪威兄弟前几天从奥斯陆赶到伦敦，之后来到纽约。他们打量着周围，有一群戴着狐狸面具和彩妆的舞者、长长的两列全身镜子和一个从头到脚化装成马的男人，这阵势并没让他们怯场。
“It’s absurd,” said Bard, who is 31, with a deadpan demeanor and long blond hair. “But after a while, it starts to feel like work.”
“很古怪，”31岁的巴德说，他一头金色长发，总是不动声色，“但是过了一会儿，就开始有工作的感觉了。”
This has become the routine for the Ylvisaker brothers, known collectively as Ylvis (pronounced ILL-vis), for the past month, ever since they became unlikely pop music sensations with a willfully silly if undeniably catchy song called “The Fox (What Does the Fox Say?).”
伊尔维萨克兄弟的乐队名叫“伊尔维斯”(Ylvis)，上个月他们的一首故意冒傻气不过却很动听的歌曲《狐狸（狐狸怎么叫）》(The Fox [What Does the Fox Say?])令他们不可思议地成了流行音乐红人，从那以后，这一套他们已经习惯了。
Over a thumping electronic beat, “The Fox” asks in pleadingly sincere tones why, if there are distinctive sounds associated with the many other animals in creation, is there not one for the fox? (As the lyrics put it: “Ducks say quack, and fish go blub and the seal goes ow ow ow ... What does the fox say?”)
一阵砰砰的电子节拍之后，《狐狸》用祈求般的真诚语气问：为什么其他动物都有自己独特的叫声，狐狸却没有？歌词唱道：“鸭子叫呱呱，鱼儿叫叭叭，海豹的叫声是嗷嗷嗷……狐狸怎么叫呢？”
This week, “The Fox” reached No. 6 on Billboard’s Hot 100 singles chart, surpassing hits like Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines” and Lady Gaga’s “Applause.” An equally mystifying video that features the photogenic Ylvisakers and other performers in a variety of animal outfits, evoking “I Am the Walrus,” if it had been directed by Lars von Trier, has been viewed more than 100 million times on YouTube.
这个星期，《狐狸》登上了公告牌百大单曲榜第六位，力压罗宾·西克(Robin Thicke)的《模糊的句子》(Blurred Lines)和Lady Gaga的《掌声》(Applause)。这首歌的音乐录影带同样令人迷惑，在片中，颇为上镜的伊尔维萨克兄弟和其他表演者穿着各种动物服装，让人觉得如果《我是海象》(I Am the Walrus)的音乐录像如果由拉斯·冯·特里厄(Lars von Trier)来导演的话，也会是这个样子。这个录像在YouTube网站上已经被观看了一亿多次。
But even as the song continues to grow in popularity, and Ylvis is invited to perform it on American programs like “Late Night” and the “Today” show, it is becoming both a blessing and a burden to its creators — a propitious opportunity and a prank that backfired wildly. How much further, they wonder, can they take something that was never meant to go anywhere in the first place?
这首歌还在持续走红，“伊尔维斯”不断接到美国的“深夜秀”和“今日秀”等节目邀请。如今对于他们来说，它既是好事，也是一种负担——既为他们带来有利的机会，同时也成了一个恶作剧，带来不少适得其反的后果。他们不禁想，靠着这首一开始本来什么目的也没有的歌，他们能走多远呢？
“This was the plan all along,” the floppy-haired Vegard, 34, shouted to Mr. Fallon during a break in filming on Wednesday. They were both dressed as foxes, and something in Vegard’s voice suggested he meant the opposite.
“我们的计划一直都是这样，”34岁的维加德留着蓬松的头发，星期三录制节目的间隙，他向法伦喊道。兄弟俩都穿成狐狸的样子，维加德的语气表明他在说反话。
In their homeland, the Ylvisaker brothers are jokesters with a loyal local following and the hosts of their own comedy talk show, “I Kveld Med Ylvis” (“Tonight With Ylvis”), on Norwegian television.
在家乡，伊尔维萨克兄弟是一对谐星，有忠实的本地拥趸，在挪威电视台拥有自己的喜剧脱口秀节目——“伊尔维斯今夜秀”(I Kveld Med Ylvis)。
They made “The Fox” with assistance from Stargate, the Norwegian-born, New York-based producing duo that has also helped create hit songs for Rihanna, Katy Perry and Wiz Khalifa — except that their track, the Ylvisakers said, was intended to be bad.
他们在挪威裔纽约制作二人组“星门”(Stargate)帮助下创作了《狐狸》这首歌，“星门”还帮蕾哈娜(Rihanna)、凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)和维兹·卡利法(Wiz Khalifa)写过金曲，但伊尔维萨克兄弟说，他们这首歌是故意要写得很恶劣。
“From a comedian’s perspective, it would be much more fun if we misused their talents,” Bard said. “We go make that song, we come back to our talk show and we say, ‘Sorry, guys.’ ”
“从喜剧演员的角度来说，如果我们把他们的才华用在不恰当的地方，它可能会更有意思，”巴德说，“我们制作了这首歌，然后回到我们的脱口秀节目，说：‘对不起了，伙计们。’”
Instead, the video became an international phenomenon when it was posted in early September, racking up hundreds of thousands of views by the day and catching the attention of Warner Music, which had already signed Ylvis to the Norwegian arm of the company.
然而这首歌的音乐录像自9月在网上贴出，很快成了全球现象，每天都有几十万的点击率，这引起了华纳音乐公司(Warner Music)公司的注意，他们已经通过挪威的分公司签下了“伊尔维斯”。
“The Fox” made its debut at No. 29 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart, helped by a revised ranking system that accounts for a song’s online activity. Warner was particularly impressed by actual sales of the song — about 75,000 copies a week, says Peter Gray, senior vice president for promotion at Warner Brothers Records — achieved without radio play or a costly marketing campaign.
《狐狸》初登公告牌百名单曲榜就获得了第29名的成绩，因为该排行榜的排名系统经过调整，把歌曲的网络活跃程度也统计在内。更令华纳公司震撼的是歌曲的真实销量——一周7.5万份。华纳兄弟唱片公司负责推广的资深副总裁彼得·格雷(Peter Gary)说，它没有在广播节目中播出，也没有进行花费不菲的市场宣传就取得了这样的成绩。
“There are a lot of hit songs that people have put major muscle and campaigns behind, for months and months, that aren’t selling half of that, or a quarter of that,” Mr. Gray said.
“有很多金曲，人们在背后为它们付出许多努力，月复一月发起宣传攻势，但销量还不及这首歌的一半或者1/4，”格雷说。
On the strength of “The Fox,” Ylvis was booked on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and at the iHeartRadio festival in Las Vegas last month, performing on a bill with artists like Justin Timberlake and Miley Cyrus. But what the band intends to do with this momentum remains an open question.
因为《狐狸》的大红，“伊尔维斯”得以登上“艾伦·德杰尼勒斯秀”(The Ellen DeGeneres Show)和上月在拉斯维加斯举行的iHeartRadio音乐节，与贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)和麦莉·塞勒斯(Miley Cyrus)等艺人同台共演。但乐队趁着这股势头接下来要干什么，这已经成了公开的疑问。
Mr. Gray said that Ylvis could be challenged by “the perception of novelty, which I suppose allows people to pass something off as silly, as opposed to being taken seriously as art.”
格雷说，“伊尔维斯”可能会受到“人们对‘新奇事物’观念的挑战，我认为，在这种观念之下，人们会把某些作品当成是傻乎乎的东西，而不是视为严肃的艺术。”
Such a fate, it could be argued, befell Psy, the Korean rapper who had a surprise worldwide hit with the song “Gangnam Style” (and the goofy dancing in its accompanying video), but who did not match this feat with his follow-up single, “Gentleman.” But, Mr. Gray said: “I would say this: Once a name, always a threat. If Psy writes another hit song, or if Ylvis writes another hit song, the door is open for them.” Though there is no current plan to release a full-length Ylvis album, Mr. Gray said, “A hit song changes everything.”
遭受同样命运的或许还有韩国饶舌乐手“鸟叔”(Psy)，他的《江南Style》(Gangnam Style)意外成了全球金曲，但他的下一首单曲《绅士》(Gentleman)却远远没能获得之前的成功。但格雷说：“我可以说，一旦成名就会一直拥有影响力。‘鸟叔’或者‘伊尔维斯’一旦写出另一首金曲，机会的大门马上会为他们敞开。”尽管“伊尔维斯”目前还没有发行完整长度专辑的计划，格雷说：“一首金曲就能改变一切。”
For Ylvis, “This is a big chance,” Bard said, but promoting “The Fox” requires him and Vegard to leave their wives and young children at home for days at a time, and prevents them from working on their Norwegian TV show. For the time being, Bard said, “We tried to push all our work on our colleagues.”
对于“伊尔维斯”来说，“这是个大好机会，”巴德说，但是宣传《狐狸》需要他和维加德不时离开家中的妻儿，也让他们无法继续挪威电视台的脱口秀节目。巴德说，他们暂时“尽量把工作都推给同事们”。
As they made their way from NBC headquarters to SoHo, the Ylvisakers said they were satisfied and relieved by their appearance on “Late Night,” where the house band, the Roots, had joined in on “The Fox.”
来到NBC在SoHo区的总部时，伊尔维萨克兄弟说，他们对自己在深夜秀上的表演感到满意和如释重负，节目的驻场乐队“根源”(Roots)也参演了《狐狸》。
Before that evening’s performance of the song, Bard said, “We never rehearsed it, because it was never supposed to be a live thing.”
法伦秀当晚，表演这首歌之前，巴德说：“我们从来没彩排过，因为它不应该被当做现场演出。”
Vegard added, “It’s not like a story; it’s just a bunch of animal sounds.”
维加德补充说：“它不是一个故事，只是一大串动物的叫声。”
He said it was inevitable that enthusiasm for “The Fox” would wane. “You can’t be amazed for an entire month,” he said. “At some point, it has to level off.”
他说，对《狐狸》的狂热会不可避免地退去。“你不可能为它兴奋上一整月，”他说，“到了某种程度，走势就会稳定下来。”
Whenever that happens, Bard said he would be prepared.
不管这种情况将在何时发生，巴德说到时他都能接受。
“There might come a song about wolves from Denmark in the next week, and then, suddenly, we’re off the hook,” he said. “That’s O.K. Even if that happens, it’s been fun.”
“下个星期没准就会从丹麦冒出一首关于狼的歌，然后我们就算脱身了，”他说，“这没什么，就算真是这样也挺好玩的。”