The past month has presented the world with what the Israeli analyst Orit Perlov describes as the two dominant Arab governing models: ISIS and SISI. 
过去一个月，世界上出现了以色列分析师奥里特·佩尔洛夫(Orit Perlov)所说的阿拉伯世界的两种主要治理模式：ISIS和SISI。
ISIS, of course, is the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the bloodthirsty Sunni militia that has gouged out a new state from Sunni areas in Syria and Iraq. SISI, of course, is Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the new strongman/president of Egypt, whose regime debuted this week by shamefully sentencing three Al Jazeera journalists to prison terms on patently trumped-up charges — a great nation acting so small.
ISIS当然是指伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），这个凶残的逊尼派武装组织通过攫取叙利亚和伊拉克逊尼派聚居区的部分土地，成立了一个新国家。SISI指的当然是阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)，埃及的新强人总统。本周，他的政府因为极不光彩地以莫须有的罪名把三名半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)记者关进监狱而受到指责——一个大国竟会做出如此卑劣的举动。
ISIS and Sisi, argues Perlov, a researcher on Middle East social networks at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies, are just flip sides of the same coin: one elevates “god” as the arbiter of all political life and the other “the national state.”
佩尔洛夫是特拉维夫大学(Tel Aviv University)国家安全研究中心(Institute for National Security Studies)研究中东社交网络的学者。他认为，ISIS和塞西只是同一枚硬币的两面：一方认为所有政治生活都应该由“神”来决定，另一方则把“国家”视作最高仲裁者。
Both have failed and will continue to fail — and require coercion to stay in power — because they cannot deliver for young Arabs and Muslims what they need most: the education, freedom and jobs to realize their full potential and the ability to participate as equal citizens in their political life.
两者都已失败，而且还会继续失败——他们都需要采用高压政策来维护自己的统治——因为他们无法给年轻的阿拉伯人和穆斯林提供他们最需要的东西：能让他们完全实现潜能的教育、自由，及工作，还有作为平等的公民参与政治生活的能力。
We are going to have to wait for a new generation that “puts society in the center,” argues Perlov, a new Arab/Muslim generation that asks not “how can we serve god or how can we serve the state but how can they serve us.”
我们还需要等待这里出现“把社会放在中心位置”的新一代，佩尔洛夫认为，这些新一代的阿拉伯人/穆斯林不会问“我们如何为神灵服务或我们如何为国家服务，而是它们如何为我们服务”。
Perlov argues that these governing models — hyper-Islamism (ISIS) driven by a war against “takfiris,” or apostates, which is how Sunni Muslim extremists refer to Shiite Muslims; and hyper-nationalism (SISI) driven by a war against Islamist “terrorists,” which is what the Egyptian state calls the Muslim Brotherhood — need to be exhausted to make room for a third option built on pluralism in society, religion and thought.
佩尔洛夫称，这些治理模式——针对“takfiris”或变节者的战争所推动的极端伊斯兰主义(ISIS)，takfiris是逊尼派穆斯林极端分子对什叶派穆斯林的称呼；以及由针对伊斯兰“恐怖分子”的战争所推动的极端民族主义(SISI)，伊斯兰“恐怖分子”是埃及政府对穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)成员的称呼——应该走完自己的路，以便给以社会、宗教和思想多元主义为基础的第三种选择腾出空间。
The Arab world needs to finally puncture the twin myths of the military state (SISI) or the Islamic state (ISIS) that will bring prosperity, stability and dignity. Only when the general populations “finally admit that they are both failed and unworkable models,” argues Perlov, might there be “a chance to see this region move to the 21st century.” 
阿拉伯世界需要最终揭穿军事政府(SISI)和伊斯兰国(ISIS)能给人们带来繁荣、稳定与尊严的谎言。只有当人民大众“最终承认这两者都是失败的、行不通的模式，”佩尔洛夫称，“这个地区才有机会进入21世纪。”
The situation is not totally bleak. You have two emergent models, both frail and neither perfect, where Muslim Middle East nations have built decent, democratizing governance, based on society and with some political, cultural and religious pluralism: Tunisia and Kurdistan. Again both are works in progress, but what is important is that they did emerge from the societies themselves. You also have the relatively soft monarchies — like Jordan and Morocco — that are at least experimenting at the margins with more participatory governance, allow for some opposition and do not rule with the brutality of the secular autocrats.
情况并非糟到不可救药。这里有两种处于初级阶段的模式，它们都很脆弱，而且都不完美。中东的有些穆斯林国家已经以社会为基础，运用一些政治、文化和宗教方面的多元主义建立起了体面而民主化的治理模式，例如突尼斯和库尔德斯坦。这里再次声明，两者都还不成熟，但重要的是，它们都是自己从社会中产生的。这里还有相对温和的君主制国家——比如约旦和摩洛哥——它们至少在边边角角的地方试验着允许更多人参与治理的做法，允许人们在一定程度上表示反对，而且也没有以世俗独裁者的暴力方式在进行统治。
“Both the secular authoritarian model — most recently represented by Sisi — and the radical religious model — represented now by ISIS — have failed,” adds Marwan Muasher, the former foreign minister of Jordan and author of “The Second Arab Awakening and the Battle for Pluralism.” “They did because they have not addressed peoples’ real needs: improving the quality of their life, both in economic and development terms, and also in feeling they are part of the decision-making process.  Both models have been exclusionist, presenting themselves as the holders of absolute truth and of the solution to all society’s problems.”
“世俗的威权主义模式——最近的代表是塞西——以及激进的宗教模式——目前以ISIS为代表——都失败了，”约旦前外长、《第二次阿拉伯觉醒和争取多元主义的战斗》(The Second Arab Awakening and the Battle for Pluralism)一书的作者马尔万·马阿谢尔(Marwan Muasher)说。“它们之所以失败，是因为他们没有满足人们的真正需求：提高人们的生活质量，不仅从经济和发展方面进行改善，而且还应该让他们感觉自己能参与决策。两种模式都是排外主义的体现，他们把自己标榜为绝对真理的持有者，认为自己能解决所有的社会问题。”
But the Arab public “is not stupid,” Muasher added. “While we will continue to see exclusionist discourses in much of the Arab world for the foreseeable future, results will end up trumping ideology. And results can only come from policies of inclusion, that would give all forces a stake in the system, thereby producing stability, checks and balances, and ultimately prosperity. ISIS and Sisi cannot win. Unfortunately, it might take exhausting all other options before a critical mass is developed that internalizes this basic fact. That is the challenge of the new generation in the Arab world, where 70 percent of the population is under 30 years of age. The old generation, secular or religious, seems to have learned nothing from the failure of the postindependence era to achieve sustainable development, and the danger of exclusionist policies.”
但是，阿拉伯公众“并不笨”，马阿谢尔说。“虽然在可以预见的未来，阿拉伯世界的大部分地区还是会继续出现排外主义论调，但是结果最终会打败意识形态。而结果只能来自包容性政策，这样每股势力才能在整个体系中占有一席之地，从而产生稳定与制衡，并最终带来繁荣。ISIS和塞西无法取胜。不幸的是，可能在所有其他选项都用完以后，才会产生一种内化这个基本事实的临界物质。这就是阿拉伯新一代人所面临的挑战，这里70%的人口都在30岁以下。老一代人，不论是世俗者还是有宗教分子，似乎都没有从后独立时代实现可持续发展方面的失败，以及排外主义政策的危险上吸取任何教训。”
Indeed, the Iraq founded in 1921 is gone with the wind. The new Egypt imagined in Tahrir Square is stillborn. Too many leaders and followers in both societies seem intent on giving their failed ideas of the past another spin around the block before, hopefully, they opt for the only idea that works: pluralism in politics, education and religion. This could take a while, or not. I don’t know.
的确，1921年建立的伊拉克已经烟消云散。解放广场上幻想的新埃及也夭折了。两个社会里有太多领导人和追随者似乎笃定地想，再尝试一次过去已经失败的理念，之后才去接受唯一能奏效的理念：政治、教育和宗教上的多元主义。希望结果是这样的。不过这可能要过一段挺长的时间才能实现，或者也许很快会到来。我也不知道答案。