For years Dr. Eben Alexander III had dismissed near-death revelations of God and heaven as explainable by the hard wiring of the human brain. He was, after all, a neurosurgeon with sophisticated medical training.
多年来，埃本·亚历山大三世医生一直认为可以用人类大脑脑神经的串联来解释濒死体验时见证上帝和天堂的经历。毕竟他是位神经科医生，拥有丰富的医学训练背景。
But then in 2008 Dr. Alexander contracted bacterial meningitis. The deadly infection soaked his brain and sent him into a deep coma.
但在2008年，亚历山大医生得了细菌性脑膜炎。脑内各处出现了致命的感染，导致他陷入深度昏迷。
During that week, as life slipped away, he now says, he was living intensely in his mind. He was reborn into a primitive mucky Jell-o-like substance and then guided by “a beautiful girl with high cheekbones and deep blue eyes” on the wings of a butterfly to an “immense void” that is both “pitch black” and “brimming with light” coming from an “orb” that interprets for an all-loving God.
他现在回忆说，在昏迷的那个星期，当生命一点点流逝时，他的思维活动却极为激烈。他感觉自己重生为一种原始、粘湿的果冻般的物质，然后乘在一只蝴蝶的翅膀上，在“一个长着高高的颧骨、深蓝色的双眼的美丽的女孩”的引导下，到达了某个“浩瀚无边的空间”，这里“黑暗无比”，同时“边缘又带着光芒”， 光线来自于一个“球体”，他将它解释为博爱的上帝。
Dr. Alexander, 58, was so changed by the experience that he felt compelled to write a book, “Proof of Heaven,” that recounts his experience. He knew full well that he was gambling his professional reputation by writing it, but his hope is that his expertise will be enough to persuade skeptics, particularly medical skeptics, as he used to be, to open their minds to an afterworld.
现年58岁的亚历山大医生深受这次经历的影响，因此写出了一本题为《天国的证据》(Proof of Heaven)的书来回顾自己的经历。他非常清楚，写这本书是拿自己的职业声誉作赌注，但他希望自己的专业知识足以说服怀疑者，尤其是像当年自己那样的医疗界的怀疑者，用这本书来启发他们关于后世的思维。
Dr. Alexander acknowledged that tales of near-death experiences that reveal a bright light leading to compassionate world beyond are as old as time and by now seem trite. He is aware that his version of heaven is even more psychedelic than most — the butterflies, he explained, were not his choice, and anyway that was his “gateway” and not heaven itself.
亚历山大医生承认，关于一束亮光指引人进入远方充满慈悲的世界的濒死体验传说，可谓自古有之，现在看来是陈腔滥调。他明白自己关于天堂的描述比其他大部分的说法都要更具迷幻意味——他解释说，蝴蝶并非来自于他的选择，而且无论如何，这是他的“通道”而非天堂本身。
Still, he said, he has a trump card: Having trained at Duke University and taught and practiced as a surgeon at Harvard, he knows brain science as well as anyone. And science, he said, cannot explain his experience.
不过他说，他手上有一张王牌：他曾在杜克大学(Duke University)接受专业训练，在哈佛大学(Harvard)担任外科医生和教师，他对大脑科学有深入了解。而他说，科学无法解释自己的经历。
“During my coma my brain wasn’t working improperly,” he writes in his book. “It wasn’t working at all.”
在书中他这样写道：“在昏迷时我的大脑并不是在错误运转。它根本就没运转。”
Simon & Schuster, which released the book on Oct. 23, is betting that it can appeal to very different but potentially lucrative audiences: those interested in neuroscience and those interested in mystical experiences. Already Dr. Alexander has been a guest on “The Dr. Oz Show” and is scheduled to appear as the sole guest of an hourlong special with Oprah Winfrey on Sunday.
西蒙舒斯特出版社(Simon & Schuster)在10月23日出版了这本书，出版社方面断言它能吸引截然不同、但有利可图的读者群体上：这当中既有对神经科学感兴趣的人，也有对神秘经验感兴趣的人。亚历山大医生已经成为《The Dr. Oz Show》的嘉宾，并计划在周日上奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)的节目，他是这档一小时长的特别节目的唯一嘉宾。
“This book covers topics that are of interest to a lot of people: consciousness, near death, and heaven,” said Priscilla Painton, the executive editor at Simon & Schuster, who acquired the book.
西蒙舒斯特出版社的执行编辑普里西拉·彭顿(Priscilla Painton)获得了该本书的版权，她说：“这本书涉及了诸多题材，包括意识、濒死、天堂等，对许多人来说都很有意思。”
The company took the unusual step of releasing the book in hardcover, paperback and e-book format, so it could simultaneously sell to a wider range of readers — at Walmarts and grocery stores as well as independent bookstores and online. It rose instantly to No. 1 on The New York Times’s paperback best-seller list and is there again for next week.
这家出版社在发行该书时做法不同以往，同时出版了精装、平装和电子书三种形式，以期能向更广泛的读者销售这本书——读者既能在独立书店和网上买到，也能在沃尔玛和食品杂货店买到。这本书一出版，立即登上了《纽约时报》平装书畅销榜的冠军位置，在下一周蝉联冠军。
Ms. Painton would not elaborate on what type of audience the book had attracted so far, but she did say she expected it to continue to be a big seller. The publisher has printed nearly one million copies, combined hardcover and paperback, to be snapped up at airports and as stocking stuffers at big retailers like Target. Another 78,000 digital copes have been sold.
彭顿并未详细阐明这本书目前为止吸引最多的是哪一类的读者，但她说，她认为这本书能持续热卖。该书的精装和平装本加起来印数接近100万册，出版社希望这本书既能成为机场书店热门读物，也能在像塔吉特(Target)这类大型零售商那里当作圣诞礼物来推销。此外本书还已经售出了7.8万本电子书。
In a recent interview at the Algonquin Hotel lobby in Manhattan, however, Dr. Alexander made it clear that he was less interested in appealing to religious “believers,” even though they had been a core audience for similar books.
不过，最近在曼哈顿阿尔冈昆酒店(Algonquin Hotel)大堂里接受采访时，亚历山大医生清楚表明，他对吸引虔诚的“信徒”并不热衷，尽管他们确实是类似书籍的核心受众群体。
He rejected the idea that readers of his book would be the same as those who bought “Heaven Is for Real,” a 2010 mega best-seller about a preacher’s son who sat on Jesus’ lap during a near-death experience.
他驳斥了一种看法，那就是自己这本书的读者群体将与2010年的畅销书《真的有天堂》(Heaven Is for Real)重合，后者讲述的是一个牧师之子的濒死体验，在濒临死亡时，他认为自己坐在了耶稣的膝盖上。
“It is totally different,” he insisted. “Those who believed in heaven when they read the book were not happy. They didn’t like the title. They say, ‘This is not scientific proof.’ ”
“这两本书完全是两码事，”他坚持说：“那些相信真的有天堂存在的人在读这本书时是不会高兴的。他们不喜欢这个书名。他们说，‘这又不是科学的证据。’”
In fact, he said, “Proof of Heaven” was not his idea for a title. He preferred “An N of One,” a reference to medical trials in which there is only a single patient.
他还说，其实《天国的证据》这个书名并不是他本人的想法。他更喜欢《单人测试》(An N of One)这个书名，它是一个术语，指的是只有一名患者参加的医学试验。
Wearing a yellow bow tie, Dr. Alexander talked about his career and his years at Harvard, sounding every bit the part of a doctor one might trust to drill open skulls and manipulate their contents.
亚历山大医生系着个黄色的领结，回顾了自己的职业生涯和在哈佛大学的往事，听着他的讲述，你会放心把自己交给面前的这位医生，由他钻开自己的头颅，在里面动刀子。
He left Harvard in 2001, he said, because he was tired of “medical politics.” In 2006 he moved to Lynchburg, Va., where he did research on less invasive forms of brain surgery through focused X-rays and digital scanners. Then the meningitis felled him.
他在2001年离开了哈佛，他说原因是因为自己厌倦了“医疗政治”。2006年他搬到了弗吉尼亚州林奇堡市，在那里，他借助X射线聚焦和数字扫描技术，对较少侵入性的脑部手术进行了研究。但接下来，脑膜炎不期而至。
After recovering, he originally planned to write a scientific paper that would explain his intensely vivid recollections. But after consulting the existing literature and talking extensively to other colleagues in the field he decided no scientific explanation existed.
在痊愈后，他本来计划要写一篇科学论文来解释自己那些栩栩如生的记忆。但在查阅了已有的文献资料，并与业内其他同事进行了大量交流后，他发现根本不存在科学的解释。
“My entire neocortex — the outer surface of the brain, the part that makes us human — was entirely shut down, inoperative,” he said.
他说：“当时，我大脑的全部新皮质——也就是脑部的外表面，那个令我们生而为人的部位——已经完全罢工了。”
He hesitated nevertheless. It took him two years, he said, to even use the word God in discussing his experience. But then he felt an obligation to all those dealing with near-death experience, and particularly to his fellow doctors. He felt compelled to let them know.
他还是犹豫不决。他说，自己是花了两年时间，才开始在讲述自己的经历时用到了“上帝”这个词。但他当时觉得自己对所有曾面对过濒死经历的人，尤其是医生同行们负有一种责任。他觉得自己有必要让他们知道这段故事。
So far he has spoken at the Lynchburg hospital, where he was treated, and said he has been invited to address a group of neurosurgeons at Stanford.
他曾在接受治疗的林奇堡医院做过演讲，并受邀要去斯坦福向一群神经科医生讲述自己的经历。
But these invitations, he acknowledged, do not mean that his theory is gaining ground among doctors. In private conversations, he said, very few of his colleagues offered counterarguments. Some agreed with his conclusion that science could not explain what he saw, but none of them were willing to be named in his book.
他自己也承认，这些邀请并不意味着他的说法在医生群体中得到了采纳。他说，跟同事们私下里聊天时，很少有人反驳他。一些人认同他的结论，那就是科学无法解释他看到的东西，但没有人同意他在书中介绍自己的名字。
Other former colleagues reached for comment were not convinced. Dr. Martin Samuels, chairman of the neurology department at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, a Harvard teaching affiliate, remembered Dr. Alexander as a competent neurosurgeon. But he said: “There is no way to know, in fact, that his neocortex was shut down. It sounds scientific, but it is an interpretation made after the fact.”
其他受邀发表意见的前同事则表示，他们并不能确信亚历山大医生的说法。马丁·塞缪尔医生(Martin Samuels)是哈佛附属的教学医院布里格姆妇产医院(Brigham and Women’s Hospital)神经科负责人，在他的印象里，亚历山大是位能干的神经外科医生，但他说：“事实上我们无从得知当时他的大脑新皮质是不是真的完全失灵了。它听来是套科学的说辞，但那是根据事实所做出的阐释。”
“My own experience,” Dr. Samuels added, “is that we all live in virtual reality, and the brain is the final arbiter. The fact that he is a neurosurgeon is no more relevant than if he was a plumber.”
塞缪尔进一步说：“以我的经验来看，我们所有人都生活在虚拟的现实中，而大脑才是最终的裁决者。你是神经外科医生，跟他是水管工，对结果都没什么影响。”
Dr. Alexander shrugs off such analysis. He still hopes to tour “major medical centers and hospices and nursing homes,” he said, to relate his experience in distinctly medical environments.
对于这种分析，亚历山大不置可否。他说自己仍然希望能前往“大型医疗中心、临终关怀医院和疗养院”巡讲，在医疗场所来讲述自己的经历。
His messages to those who deal with dying is one of relief. “Our spirit is not dependent on the brain or body,” he said. “It is eternal, and no one has one sentence worth of hard evidence that it isn’t.”
对于那些面对死亡的人来说，他传递的信息则是一种慰藉。“我们的精神并不依靠大脑或躯体，它是不朽的，没有人能拿出任何坚实的证据证明这不是事实。”