Camels may be a carrier of the mysterious virus that has infected at least 94 people in the Middle East and killed half of them, scientists are reporting.
科学家指出，骆驼的身上可能携带了一种在中东肆虐的神秘病毒。该病毒已感染了至少94人，其中有一半已经死亡。
The virus, first detected last year in Saudi Arabia, causes Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS, which begins with flulike symptoms and can progress to severe pneumonia. Because the virus belongs to a family called coronaviruses, often found in bats, researchers suspect that it originally came from bats. The bats might infect people through droppings or saliva, but they might also infect other animals that could then transmit the virus to humans. But which animals? Researchers have been scrambling to find out.
病毒于去年在沙特阿拉伯首次发现，能导致“中东呼吸综合征”（Middle East respiratory syndrome，简称MERS）。患者首先产生类似感冒的症状，然后会发展成严重的肺炎。由于属于冠状病毒科，而其常见于蝙蝠体内，因此研究人员怀疑它最初来源于蝙蝠。蝙蝠可以通过粪便或唾液传染人，不过也可以感染其他动物，然后再将病毒传染给人类。到底是哪些动物？研究人员一直在加紧研究。
Now, a scientific team from a dozen universities is reporting that dromedary camels (the kind with one hump) from Oman and the Canary Islands show signs of past infection with the MERS virus or one very much like it. Researchers tested blood samples from 50 female retired racing camels in Oman, and 105 used in the tourist industry in the Canary Islands. The blood tests did not find the virus itself, but did find antibodies to it — highly specific proteins that the immune system makes to fight off an infection — in all the camels from Oman, and 14 percent of the ones from the Canary Islands. Other animals were also tested — sheep, goats, camels, llamas and alpacas — but none had MERS antibodies.
现在，来自十几家大学的科学家组成的团队撰文指出，有迹象表明，阿曼和加那利群岛的单峰骆驼过去曾感染过MERS病毒或与之极其类似的一种病毒。研究人员检测了阿曼50头退役母赛驼和加那利群岛105头用于旅游的骆驼的血液样本。血检并没有发现该病毒，但是找到了它的抗体。抗体是免疫系统产生的用以对抗感染的高特异性蛋白。这种抗体出现在所有阿曼骆驼和14%的加那利群岛骆驼血样中。研究者还检测了其他动物，包括绵羊、山羊、双峰驼、大羊驼和羊驼，均未发现MERS抗体。
Writing in The Lancet Infectious Diseases, the researchers say their findings need to be verified by other studies, but meanwhile, detailed case histories should be taken of people who have had MERS to find out if they had been exposed to camels or their milk or meat.
研究结果发表在《柳叶刀感染性疾病杂志》(The Lancet Infectious Diseases)上。研究人员在文中写道，他们的发现需要由其他研究来验证，与此同时，还应研究MERS患者的详细接触史，以便找出他们是否接触过骆驼、驼奶或驼肉。
Some researchers praised the study. Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, a virus expert at Columbia University who has been studying MERS, said, “I think it’s compelling evidence that dromedaries are infected with MERS or a related coronavirus.” The study does not prove that the animals have infected humans, he added, but he said it was plausible because people in the Middle East have a great deal of contact with camels as racing animals, pets and sources of food.
一些科研人员对该研究表示赞许。哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的病毒学专家W·伊恩·利普金博士(W. Ian Lipkin)也在研究MERS，他说，“我觉得这是有力的证据，表明单峰驼感染了MERS或与其有关的一种冠状病毒。”他补充说，该研究并没有证明是单峰驼感染了人类，不过这看来是合理的，因为中东人与骆驼有诸多接触，拿它比赛、当宠物或食用。
William Karesh, a veterinarian and executive vice president of EcoHealth Alliance, a group also studying MERS, said that finding the virus itself in an animal would be stronger and more convincing evidence. But he said the new research was well done and added, “All the clues in a mystery are valuable.”
生态健康联盟(EcoHealth Alliance)也在研究MERS，该组织执行副会长、兽医威廉·卡雷什(William Karesh)认为，如能在动物体内找到病毒本身将是更有力且更令人信服的证据。不过他也表示，这项新研究做得很好，而且“谜题里所有的线索都是有价值的。”