MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia reappeared in public on Monday after a curious absence of more than a week, commenting wryly that things “would be boring without gossip.”
莫斯科——在离奇地消失了逾一周后，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周一重新出现在公众视野中，讽刺地评论道，生活“没有八卦，会很无聊”。
Rossiya 24, a state television station, showed Mr. Putin with the president of Kyrgyzstan, Almazbek Atambayev, at a palace in St. Petersburg. The two discussed Kyrgyzstan’s planned accession to a Russian-backed regional trade group.
官方电视台俄罗斯24电视台(Rossiya 24)播出了普京与吉尔吉斯斯坦总统阿尔马兹别克·阿坦巴耶夫(Almazbek Atambayev)在圣彼得堡的一座宫殿内会面的镜头。两人商讨了吉尔吉斯斯坦加入俄罗斯支持的地区贸易组织的计划。
The meeting reportedly began more than an hour late, prolonging concerns about Mr. Putin’s whereabouts, a subject that has obsessed Moscow and Russia for days.
据称，此次会面推迟了一个多小时，进一步加剧了人们对普京行踪的关注，数天来，这一直是莫斯科和俄罗斯最关心的问题。
Until Monday, the last confirmed public sighting of the Russian president had been at a meeting with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy on March 5. Mr. Putin abruptly canceled a trip to Kazakhstan and postponed a treaty signing with representatives from South Ossetia, who were reportedly told not to bother flying to Moscow.
在周一之前，普京最后一次公开亮相是3月5日与意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)的会面。普京突然取消了访问哈萨克斯坦的行程，并推迟了与南奥塞梯的代表签订协议的活动，据称，南奥塞梯的代表被告知不必飞往莫斯科。
Further stirring unease here, the Russian leader was absent from an annual meeting of top officials from the F.S.B., Russia’s domestic intelligence service.
进一步引发不安的是，普京缺席俄罗斯国内情报机构俄罗斯联邦安全局(FSB)高级官员的年度会议。
The rumor mill churned, and among the possible explanations were that Mr. Putin had fallen ill with a virulent strain of the flu, that he had surreptitiously flown to Switzerland for the birth of his love child, that he had had a stroke and that he had been ousted in a coup.
流言满天飞，有很多可能的解释，比如普京感染了恶性流感病毒，普京已经秘密飞往瑞士等待私生子的出生，普京中风了，普京在政变中被推翻。
Dmitri S. Peskov, the president’s spokesman, brushed off the health questions, saying that Mr. Putin’s handshake was so firm it was bone crushing, and that the president had been busy working with official papers.
普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科(Dmitri S. Peskov)对健康问题予以否认，称普京握手有力，足以将对方的手弄断，并称总统一直忙于处理公文。
On Monday, Mr. Peskov mocked speculation about the president’s whereabouts, saying of Mr. Putin’s resurfacing, “have you all seen the broken, paralyzed president, who has been kidnapped by generals? He’s only just flown in from Switzerland, where he attended a birth, as you know.”
周一，佩斯科嘲笑了对总统行踪的猜测，他在提到普京的重新露面时说，“你们都看到被将军绑架、缺胳膊少腿的瘫痪总统了吧？他只是刚刚从瑞士飞回来而已，如你所知，他去那里照看产妇。”
During the meeting, Mr. Atambayev volunteered to members of the news media in St. Petersburg that he and Mr. Putin had toured the palace grounds and that the Russian leader was by all appearances in good health.
会议过程中，阿坦巴耶夫主动向圣彼得堡的新闻媒体成员表示，他和普京参观了宫殿，这位俄罗斯领导人的健康状况显然不错。
“With your permission, Vladimir Vladimirovich, I would like to add something here,” Mr. Atambayev said, addressing the Russian leader before the news media. “Just now, Vladimir Vladimirovich drove me around the grounds, he was sitting behind the wheel himself. This was to dispel the rumors. I often hear different rumors about myself, this isn’t right. That is, the president of Russia not only walks, he races around, he gives guests rides.”
“如果你允许，弗拉基米尔·弗拉基米罗维奇，我想在这里补充一些内容，”阿坦巴耶夫在新闻媒体前对这位俄罗斯领导人说。“刚才，弗拉基米尔·弗拉基米罗维奇带我这里转了转，他亲自开车。这是为了消除谣言。我经常听到关于自己的各种传言，这样是不对的。也就是说，俄罗斯总统不仅能走路，还能到处跑，能开车载着客人参观。”
Mr. Putin’s departure from the public eye captivated Moscow’s political class, already uneasy from the war simmering in neighboring Ukraine and from the killing of the opposition leader Boris Y. Nemtsov on Feb. 27.
普京从公众视野消失一事，引发了莫斯科政治阶层的关注；因为邻国乌克兰不断升级的战事，以及反对党领袖鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y.Nemtsov)于2月27日遇刺一事，政治阶层早已感到不安。