KIEV, Ukraine — The tense Russian-American jockeying over the fate of Ukraine escalated on Thursday as a Kremlin official accused Washington of “crudely interfering” in the former Soviet republic, while the Obama administration blamed Moscow for spreading an intercepted private conversation between two American diplomats.
乌克兰基辅——本周四，一位克里姆林宫官员指责美国“粗暴干涉”这座前苏联加盟共和国的事务，而奥巴马政府则指责俄罗斯四处散播两名美国外交官被截获的私下谈话，俄罗斯和美国为掌控乌克兰命运展开的紧张争夺由此而加剧。
An audiotape of the conversation appeared on the Internet and opened a window into American handling of the political crisis here, as the two diplomats candidly discussed the composition of a possible new government to replace the pro-Russian cabinet of Ukraine’s president, Viktor F. Yanukovych. It also turned the tables on the Obama administration, which has been under fire lately for spying on foreign leaders.
一段谈话的录音出现在网络上，让外界一窥美国对此地政治危机的处理方式，两名外交官在其中直率地讨论了可能会组建新政府，以取代乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)治下的亲俄内阁。这段录音也将舆论的矛头转向了奥巴马政府，后者最近一直因为监听外国领导人而饱受攻击。
The developments on the eve of the Winter Olympics opening in Sochi, Russia, underscored the increasingly Cold War-style contest for influence here as East and West vie for the favor of a nation of 45 million with historic ties to Moscow but a deep yearning to join the rest of Europe. The tit-for-tat has been going on since November, when Mr. Yanukovych spurned a trade deal with Europe and accepted a $15 billion loan from Moscow. Months of street protests have threatened his government, and American officials are now trying to broker a settlement — an effort the Kremlin seems determined to block.
在冬季奥运会于俄罗斯索契开幕的前夜，这样的局势发展突显了东西方为了争夺在本地的影响力，而展开的日益激烈的冷战式竞赛。它们都在争抢这个有着4500万人口国家的欢心。乌克兰和俄罗斯素有历史渊源，可是却深切渴望成为欧洲的一部分。自去年11月以来，这场针锋相对的竞赛就一直在进行，当时，亚努科维奇拒绝了和欧洲的贸易协定，接受了俄罗斯提供的150亿美元（约合910亿元人民币）贷款。持续数月的街头抗议已对亚努科维奇政府构成威胁，目前，美国官员正在设法撮合，以达成和解，而俄罗斯似乎已决意阻挠美方的这种努力。
The posting of the audiotape represented a striking turn in the situation. It was posted anonymously on YouTube on Tuesday under a Russian headline, “Puppets of Maidan,” a reference to the square in Kiev occupied by protesters, and then tweeted on Thursday by a Russian government official who called it “controversial.”
录音的公布代表局势出现了一个惊人的转折。这段录音于周二被匿名上传至YouTube网站，标题是“独立广场的傀儡”(Puppets of Maidan)，独立广场指的是基辅一处被抗议者占领的广场，一名俄罗斯政府官员随后在周四推送了这段录音，说它“具有争议”。
The tape captured a four-minute telephone call on Jan. 25 between Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state for European affairs, and Geoffrey Pyatt, the ambassador to Ukraine, trading their views of the crisis, their assessments of various opposition leaders and their frustrations with their European counterparts. At one point, Ms. Nuland used an expletive to describe what should happen to the European Union.
本段录音捕捉了1月25日的一段四分钟通话，通话的一方是负责欧洲事务的美国助理国务卿维多利亚·纽兰(Victoria Nuland)，另一方是美国驻乌克兰大使杰弗里·皮雅特(Geoffrey Pyatt)，二人交换了对危机的见解、他们对多名反对派领导人的评价，以及对欧洲同行的失望之情。纽兰曾语带咒骂地描述欧盟接下来会发生的事情。
The two were discussing Mr. Yanukovych’s offer to bring two opposition leaders, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk and Vitali Klitschko, into the government as prime minister and deputy prime minister. The Americans clearly favored Mr. Yatsenyuk, a former economics minister, and Ms. Nuland said Mr. Klitschko, a former world heavyweight boxing champion, should not go into government. “I don’t think it’s a good idea,” Ms. Nuland said.
二人讨论了亚努科维奇提出的由反对派领导人阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)和维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)出任政府总理和副总理的提议。美国人显然支持前经济部部长亚采纽克，纽兰说，前世界重量级拳击冠军克里奇科不应该进入政府部门。她说，“我不认为这是个好主意。”
Mr. Pyatt expressed hope for a deal to form a new government but warned that Moscow would try to undo their negotiations. “If it does gain altitude, the Russians will be working behind the scenes to torpedo it,” he said.
皮雅特表示，他希望能达成协议，组建新政府，不过他警告称，俄罗斯会设法破坏谈判的成果。他说，“如果谈判确实获得进展，俄罗斯人会设法在背后捣鬼，破坏谈判。”
A link to the secret recording was sent out in a Twitter message on Thursday by Dmitry Losukov, an aide to Russia’s deputy prime minister, just as Ms. Nuland was in Kiev meeting with Mr. Yanukovych and opposition leaders. The White House pointed to that as an indication of Russian involvement, although it said it was not accusing Moscow of taping the call. “I think it says something about Russia’s role,” said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary.
就在纽兰在基辅会见亚努科维奇和反对派领导人的同时，俄罗斯副总理的助理德米特里·洛苏科夫(Dmitry Losukov)于周四在Twitter上发送了秘密录音的链接。白宫认为这表明了俄罗斯与此有关，尽管白宫表示，它不是在指责莫斯科监听通话。白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)说，“我认为，它在一定程度上显示了俄罗斯扮演的角色。”
Jen Psaki, a State Department spokeswoman, said she had no information about who posted the recording but criticized Moscow for promoting it. “Certainly, we think this is a new low in Russian tradecraft,” she said.
国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)说，她不知道是谁上传了录音，不过，她指责莫斯科推动了此事。她说，“我们认为，这肯定是俄罗斯谍报技术的新低谷。”
Mr. Losukov, responding to messages from a reporter on Twitter, rejected the American assertion that he was the first to disseminate the recording. “Disseminating started earlier,” he wrote, adding that his post was being “used to hang the blame” on Russia. Asked if Russia had any role, he said: “How would I know? I was just monitoring ‘the Internets’ while my boss was off to a meeting with the Chinese leader.”
洛苏科夫在Twitter上回应一名记者的留言时，驳斥了美国人坚称是他率先散布录音的断言。“录音的散布开始得更早，”他写道，还说他的帖子“被用于指责”俄罗斯。被问道俄罗斯是否参与了此事时，他说：“我怎么知道？我只是在老板外出会见中国领导人时，监视‘互联网’而已。”
The secret tape, reported Thursday by the Kyiv Post, came to light as a Kremlin adviser, Sergei Glazyev, accused the United States of funding and arming protesters in Kiev and seemed to threaten Russian intervention.
据《基辅邮报》(Kyiv Post)周四报道，就在克林姆林宫顾问谢尔盖·格拉斯耶夫(Sergei Glazyev)指责美国资助并武装基辅的抗议者，似乎威胁说俄罗斯要进行干预的时刻，神秘的录音被爆了光。
Urging Ukrainian authorities to crush what he described as an attempted coup by American-armed “rebels,” Mr. Glazyev said in an interview published Thursday in a Ukrainian edition of a Russian newspaper that Washington was violating a 1994 agreement by trying to shape events in Kiev. “What the Americans are getting up to now, unilaterally and crudely interfering in Ukraine’s internal affairs, is a clear breach of that treaty,” said Mr. Glazyev, who advises President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Ukraine. “The agreement is for collective guarantees and collective action.”
周四，在一份俄罗斯报纸乌克兰版所刊登的采访中，格拉斯耶夫说，美方正在设法影响乌克兰发生的事件，违反了1994年的协议。他认为，这是一场由美国武装的“反叛分子”发动的未遂政变，并敦促乌克兰当局粉碎这场政变。“美国人在单边地、粗暴地干涉乌克兰内政，他们现在的所作所为明显违背了那份条约。那份条约的目的是为了共同的保障、共同的行动。”格拉斯耶夫说，他是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的乌克兰事务顾问。
This, he said, gave Russia the legal right to intervene in the crisis. He did not specify what form such intervention might take.
他说，这种行径赋予了俄罗斯干预此次危机的合法权利。他没有细说，这种干预可能会以何种形式展开。
Further inflaming the situation, a Ukrainian protest leader who vanished for a week and then emerged from a forest late last month saying he had been “crucified” gave the first full account of his ordeal on Thursday.
让局势进一步激化的是，一名说自己受到了“折磨”的乌克兰抗议领袖在消失了一周后，于上个月末从森林中显身，他在周四首次全面描述了自己经历的磨难。
The activist, Dmytro Bulatov, appeared with a Lithuanian doctor to rebut government claims that he had only suffered “a scratch” and to accuse Russian agents and a friend of Mr. Putin’s of having a possible hand in his kidnapping and torture.
这名叫德米特罗·布拉托夫(Dmytro Bulatov)的活动人士和一名立陶宛医生一道现身，驳斥了政府声称他只有“一道划伤”的陈述，并指责俄罗斯特工和普京的一名朋友可能参与了对他的绑架和折磨。
“It was so scary and so painful that I asked them to kill me,” Mr. Bulatov said at a news conference in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital. He described his captors as Russian speakers who were “very professional” in inflicting pain. He said they kept his eyes covered with a mask, beat him constantly, cut off part of his ear and then nailed his hands to a wooden door.
布拉托夫在立陶宛首都维尔纽斯的新闻发布会上说，“这次经历太可怕、太痛苦了，以至于我求他们杀了我。”他说，抓捕他的人说的是俄语，他们施加痛苦的手段“极其专业”。他说，他们用面罩遮住他的眼睛，不断地殴打他，把他的耳朵切下了一部分，还把他的手钉在一扇木门上。
“When they nailed my hands to the door, they said they would leave no marks,” he said. He said he had no proof they were from Russian special services but “from the manner they beat me, they clearly knew what they were doing.”
他说，“当他们把我的手钉到门上时，他们说不会留下任何痕迹。”他说自己没有证据证明他们来自俄罗斯特工部门，不过，“从他们殴打我的方式来看，他们显然知道自己在干什么。”
The Lithuanian doctor attending the news conference said part of Mr. Bulatov’s right ear was missing and he had a deep wound on his left cheek and “multiple bruises on his back and arms.” He did not directly confirm the crucifixion claims but said both of Mr. Bulatov’s hands had wounds, although X-rays had shown no broken bones.
参加新闻发布会的立陶宛医生说，布拉托夫失去了部分右耳，他的左颊有一道深深的创口，“他的背部和手臂有多处瘀伤”。他没有直接确认布拉托夫被钉在门上的说法，不过他说，他的双手都受了伤，虽然X光片没有显示骨折。
Mr. Bulatov said his captors questioned him closely about links between protesters and the American Embassy in Kiev and about protesters who had broken a fence at the house of Victor Medvedchuk, the head of a pro-Russia civil society group, Ukrainian Choice, and an old friend of Mr. Putin’s.
布拉托夫说，抓捕他的人集中讯问了他有关抗议者和美国驻基辅大使馆之间的关系，以及有关打破了维克多·梅德韦德丘克(Viktor Medvedchuk)家栅栏的抗议者的事情，梅德韦德丘克是亲俄民间团体“乌克兰选择”(Ukrainian Choice)的领导人，也是普京的老友。
Mr. Bulatov helped organize the roaming teams that have staged protests outside and, in some cases, tried to break into the homes of Ukrainian leaders and others viewed as close to Russia. He said his captors “made me say that I was an American spy, that I worked for the Central Intelligence Agency” and that American diplomats had given money “to create disorder.”
布拉托夫协助组织了四处出没的队伍，他们在室外举行抗议活动，在某些时候，他们还试图攻入乌克兰领导人和被视为亲近俄罗斯的一些其他人物的家中。他说，抓捕他的人“让我承认，我是美国间谍，我为中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)工作”，是美国外交官给我钱“来制造混乱”。
All of this was untrue, he added, but “I lied because I could not stand the pain.”
他还说，所有这些都是不实之词，不过“我撒谎了，因为我无法忍受那种痛苦”。