THEY learn to read at age 2, play Bach at 4, breeze through calculus at 6, and speak foreign languages fluently by 8. Their classmates shudder with envy; their parents rejoice at winning the lottery. But to paraphrase T. S. Eliot, their careers tend to end not with a bang, but with a whimper.
他们2岁学会阅读、4岁演奏巴赫的乐曲、6岁轻松地学会微积分、8岁讲一口流利的外语。同学对他们嫉妒不已；他们的父母则仿佛中了大奖而欢欣鼓舞。不过，借用T·S·艾略特(T. S. Eliot)的诗句，他们的职业生涯往往并不会以“一声巨响”告终，而是以“一阵呜咽”作结。
Consider the nation’s most prestigious award for scientifically gifted high school students, the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, called the Super Bowl of science by one American president. From its inception in 1942 until 1994, the search recognized more than 2000 precocious teenagers as finalists. But just 1 percent ended up making the National Academy of Sciences, and just eight have won Nobel Prizes. For every Lisa Randall who revolutionizes theoretical physics, there are many dozens who fall far short of their potential.
我们可以看看为具有科学天赋的美国高中生设置的至高荣誉西屋科学奖(Westinghouse Science Talent Search)。这一奖项曾被一位美国总统称为“科学界的超级碗”，从1942年诞生到1994年间，有逾2000名早慧少年进入决选。不过，其中仅有1%后来成为了美国科学院院士，只有八人赢得诺贝尔奖。每一个改写理论物理学的莉萨·兰达尔(Lisa Randall)的背后，都有上百个远远未能实现潜力的孩子。
Child prodigies rarely become adult geniuses who change the world. We assume that they must lack the social and emotional skills to function in society. When you look at the evidence, though, this explanation doesn’t suffice: Less than a quarter of gifted children suffer from social and emotional problems. A vast majority are well adjusted — as winning at a cocktail party as in the spelling bee.
神童很少会成为改变世界的成年天才。我们以为，这肯定是因为他们缺乏在社会中良好运行所需的社交与情感技能。不过，看看证据的话，这一解释并不能令人满意：不到四分之一的神童的确拥有社交或情感问题。但绝大部分人能很好地适应社会，在拼写比赛和鸡尾酒会上同样如鱼得水。
What holds them back is that they don’t learn to be original. They strive to earn the approval of their parents and the admiration of their teachers. But as they perform in Carnegie Hall and become chess champions, something unexpected happens: Practice makes perfect, but it doesn’t make new.
让他们止步不前的是没能学会原创。他们奋力赢得父母的肯定、教师的钦佩。然而，当他们在卡耐基音乐厅演出或成为国际象棋冠军的时候，意料之外的事情发生了：熟能生巧，但不能生新。
The gifted learn to play magnificent Mozart melodies, but rarely compose their own original scores. They focus their energy on consuming existing scientific knowledge, not producing new insights. They conform to codified rules, rather than inventing their own. Research suggests that the most creative children are the least likely to become the teacher’s pet, and in response, many learn to keep their original ideas to themselves. In the language of the critic William Deresiewicz, they become the excellent sheep.
神童能学会演奏复杂至极的莫扎特曲目，但很少能写出自己的原创音乐。他们把精力集中花到吸取现有科学知识上，而非创造新的见解。他们遵守成规，而非创造新规。研究显示，最有创造力的孩子也最不可能成为教师的宠儿，因此许多这样的孩子学会了把自己的原创思想埋在心中。用评论人威廉·德雷谢维奇(William Deresiewicz)的话说，他们成为了优秀的羔羊。
In adulthood, many prodigies become experts in their fields and leaders in their organizations. Yet “only a fraction of gifted children eventually become revolutionary adult creators,” laments the psychologist Ellen Winner. “Those who do must make a painful transition” to an adult who “ultimately remakes a domain.”
成年后，许多神童变为领域内的专家、机构中的领袖。但心理学者埃伦·温纳(Ellen Winner)哀叹，“只有一小部分神童后来在成年期变为革命性的开创者”，“这些人必须进行痛苦的转变”，才能成为“最终改写某一领域版图”的成人。
Most prodigies never make that leap. They apply their extraordinary abilities by shining in their jobs without making waves. They become doctors who heal their patients without fighting to fix the broken medical system or lawyers who defend clients on unfair charges but do not try to transform the laws themselves.
多数神童没能跨越这一鸿沟。他们将自己的卓越才能用于在工作岗位上闪光，却不会掀起大的波澜。他们成了治病救人的医生，却不会去奋力修复崩坏的医疗体系；他们成了为遭遇不公的客户进行辩护的律师，却不会试图去改革法律本身。
So what does it take to raise a creative child? One study compared the families of children who were rated among the most creative 5 percent in their school system with those who were not unusually creative. The parents of ordinary children had an average of six rules, like specific schedules for homework and bedtime. Parents of highly creative children had an average of fewer than one rule.
那么，究竟怎样才能养育一个有创造力的孩子？一项研究对不同家庭进行了比较，一部分家庭里的孩子被学校认为创造力排在前5%，另一部分家庭里的孩子则稀松平常。普通孩子的家长平均制定了六条规矩，比如固定的做作业和睡觉时间；高创造性孩子的家长定下的规矩平均不到一条。
Creativity may be hard to nurture, but it’s easy to thwart. By limiting rules, parents encouraged their children to think for themselves. They tended to “place emphasis on moral values, rather than on specific rules,” the Harvard psychologist Teresa Amabile reports.
创造性可以说难以培养，但易于扼杀。通过减少规矩，家长鼓励孩子自行思考。他们似乎“更多地强调道德价值，而不是具体的规矩，”哈佛心理学者特雷莎·阿马比尔(Teresa Amabile)在论文中这样写道。
Even then, though, parents didn’t shove their values down their children’s throats. When psychologists compared America’s most creative architects with a group of highly skilled but unoriginal peers, there was something unique about the parents of the creative architects: “Emphasis was placed on the development of one’s own ethical code.”
不过，即便如此，家长也不会把自己的价值观填进孩子的脑袋。心理学者比较了美国最富创意的一群建筑师及其技能高超但创意欠奉的同行。他们发现，有创意的建筑师的父母有一个特殊之处：“他们强调的是让孩子发展出一套自己的道德规则。”
Yes, parents encouraged their children to pursue excellence and success — but they also encouraged them to find “joy in work.” Their children had freedom to sort out their own values and discover their own interests. And that set them up to flourish as creative adults.
的确，这些家长鼓励子女追求卓越与成功，但他们还鼓励孩子“在工作中寻找到乐趣”。他们的孩子拥有探索自己的价值观并发现自身兴趣的自由。而这一点激发他们茁壮成长为创意十足的成人。
When the psychologist Benjamin Bloom led a study of the early roots of world-class musicians, artists, athletes and scientists, he learned that their parents didn’t dream of raising superstar kids. They weren’t drill sergeants or slave drivers. They responded to the intrinsic motivation of their children. When their children showed interest and enthusiasm in a skill, the parents supported them.
心理学者本杰明·布鲁姆(Benjamin Bloom)对世界级音乐家、艺术家、运动员和科学家的早期萌芽进行了研究。他发现，这些大师的父母并未梦想养育出超级明星子女。他们不是操练新兵的士官或监督奴隶的主人，而是对孩子自发的积极性加以回应。当他们的子女展现出对某项技能的兴趣和热情时，家长予以了支持。
Top concert pianists didn’t have elite teachers from the time they could walk; their first lessons came from instructors who happened to live nearby and made learning fun. Mozart showed interest in music before taking lessons, not the other way around. Mary Lou Williams learned to play the piano on her own; Itzhak Perlman began teaching himself the violin after being rejected from music school.
顶尖的古典钢琴家并不是打从学步开始就师从精英教员；他们的启蒙课来自恰好住在家附近并让学习过程妙趣横生的教师。莫扎特在上音乐课之前就展现出了兴趣，而非反过来。玛丽·卢·威廉姆斯(Mary Lou Williams)自己学会了弹钢琴；伊扎克·帕尔曼(Itzhak Perlman)被音乐学校拒绝后开始自学小提琴。
Even the best athletes didn’t start out any better than their peers. When Dr. Bloom’s team interviewed tennis players who were ranked in the top 10 in the world, they were not, to paraphrase Jerry Seinfeld, doing push-ups since they were a fetus. Few of them faced intense pressure to perfect the game as Andre Agassi did. A majority of the tennis stars remembered one thing about their first coaches: They made tennis enjoyable.
即使是最好的运动员也没有从一开始就比同辈优异。布鲁姆的团队在采访了排名全球前十的网球运动员之后发现，拿杰瑞·宋飞(Jerry Seinfeld)的话换个方式说，他们可没有从娘肚子里就开始做俯卧撑。他们很少有人像安德烈·阿加西(Andre Agassi)那样，因追求比赛的完美而承受巨大压力。说到自己的第一位教练，大多数网球明星都会记得：他们让网球变得很有趣。
SINCE Malcolm Gladwell popularized the “10,000-hour rule” suggesting that success depends on the time we spend in deliberate practice, debate has raged about how the hours necessary to become an expert vary by field and person. In arguing about that, we’ve overlooked two questions that matter just as much.
自从马尔科姆·格拉德威尔(Malcolm Gladwell)向大众普及“一万小时定律”——指出在一件事上能否成功，取决于你着意练习的时间——以来，人们就开始激烈争论，精通某项技能所需的时间因所在领域和个人资质差别会有多大不同。在就这个问题争论时，我们忽略了两个同样重要的问题。
First, can’t practice itself blind us to ways to improve our area of study? Research reveals that the more we practice, the more we become entrenched — trapped in familiar ways of thinking. Expert bridge players struggled more than novices to adapt when the rules were changed; expert accountants were worse than novices at applying a new tax law.
第一，练习本身难道不会妨碍我们提升自己的学习观念吗？有研究显示，练得越多，我们就变得越固化——陷入熟悉的思维方式。比赛规则改变时，桥牌高手比新手更难适应；在采用新税法方面，经验丰富的财务人员还不如新手做得好。
Second, what motivates people to practice a skill for thousands of hours? The most reliable answer is passion — discovered through natural curiosity or nurtured through early enjoyable experiences with an activity or many activities.
其二，有什么能激发人们为一项技能练习成千上万个小时？最靠谱的答案是激情——由自然产生的好奇心引发，或因在从事一项或多项活动初期有令人愉快的体验而养成的激情。
Evidence shows that creative contributions depend on the breadth, not just depth, of our knowledge and experience. In fashion, the most original collections come from directors who spend the most time working abroad. In science, winning a Nobel Prize is less about being a single-minded genius and more about being interested in many things. Relative to typical scientists, Nobel Prize winners are 22 times more likely to perform as actors, dancers or magicians; 12 times more likely to write poetry, plays or novels; seven times more likely to dabble in arts and crafts; and twice as likely to play an instrument or compose music.
有证据显示，要取得创造性成就，你不仅要有知识和经历的深度，还要有广度。在时尚界，最具原创性的服装系列往往出自花最多时间在海外工作的设计总监。在科学界，赢得诺贝尔的人更多的会对很多事物充满兴趣，而非一心研究一种东西的天才。相比于普通的科学家，诺贝尔奖获得者有高于22倍的几率作为演员、舞蹈家或魔术师进行过表演；有超过12倍的几率尝试过诗人、剧作家或小说家的角色；还有高于7倍的几率掌握一门乐器或作曲技能。
No one is forcing these luminary scientists to get involved in artistic hobbies. It’s a reflection of their curiosity. And sometimes, that curiosity leads them to flashes of insight. “The theory of relativity occurred to me by intuition, and music is the driving force behind this intuition,” Albert Einstein reflected. His mother enrolled him in violin lessons starting at age 5, but he wasn’t intrigued. His love of music only blossomed as a teenager, after he stopped taking lessons and stumbled upon Mozart’s sonatas. “Love is a better teacher than a sense of duty,” he said.
没人强迫这些杰出的科学家发展这些艺术爱好。这反应的是他们个人的好奇心。有时候，好奇心会让他们灵光闪现。“我是凭直觉发现了相对论，是音乐在背后推动着这种直觉，”阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦(Albert Einstein)曾这样回想道。五岁的时候，他的母亲就开始让他学小提琴，但他没有产生兴趣。他对音乐的热爱直到青少年时期才萌生，当时他已经不再上小提琴课，但偶然听到了莫扎特的奏鸣曲。“相比于责任感，对一件事的热爱是更好的老师，”他说。
Hear that, Tiger Moms and Lombardi Dads? You can’t program a child to become creative. Try to engineer a certain kind of success, and the best you’ll get is an ambitious robot. If you want your children to bring original ideas into the world, you need to let them pursue their passions, not yours.
听到了吗，虎爸虎妈们？你无法通过设计，让一个小孩变得有创造力。通过策划实现某种成功，你所能得到的最好的结果不过是一个有抱负的机器人。如果你希望自己的孩子能给世界带来前所未有的观念，你需要让他们追寻自己的激情，而不是你个人的。