MUZAFFARPUR, India — The children begin arriving every year in mid-May, brought to an overburdened hospital here in one of India’s most impoverished areas by their panic-stricken mothers. Seemingly healthy hours earlier, most have lapsed into a coma, punctuated by convulsions.
印度穆扎夫法尔普尔——每年5月中旬开始，当地许多孩子陆续被惊慌失措的母亲送到这个印度最贫困地区的一座超负荷运转的医院里。大多数孩子几个小时前看上去还健康，现在却陷入了昏迷，并且偶有痉挛发生。
Doctors work to calm the convulsions and keep the children hydrated, but then have to watch helplessly along with the anguished parents as a third of their young patients die, often within hours. Then, as suddenly as it started, the mysterious outbreak stops with the onset of the monsoon rains this month. No one knows why.
医生努力控制住痉挛，给孩子充分补水，但接下来就只能和痛苦万分的父母一起，眼睁睁看着三分之一的小患者死去，全过程通常只有几个小时。而后，在本月的季风雨来临之际，这场神秘的疫情会突然结束，就跟它当初的爆发一样。谁也不知道是为什么。
The mud-and-bamboo huts in this part of India cradle more dying children than anywhere in the world, with diarrhea and malnutrition long ranking as the region’s great scourges. But now, this unknown killer is stalking the very young.
在印度这一带的竹棚泥屋里住着许多奄奄一息的孩子，数量之巨远超世界上任何其他地方，腹泻和营养不良多年来一直是这里的两大困扰。如今又出现了这个死盯着幼儿不放的未知杀手。
Although public health statistics are unreliable here, the disease is believed to infect tens of thousands of people a year and kill thousands.
这里的公共卫生统计数据是不可靠的，据信，每年有数万人感染这种疾病，并导致成千上万人死亡。
All doctors know is that the illness is a form of brain swelling, or encephalitis, but that is a huge category, covering a wide spectrum of diseases. Doctors have tested for known causes of brain swelling, including meningitis and Japanese encephalitis, but the tests almost always come back negative. India’s top health officials say the disease, known officially as acute encephalitis syndrome, has them stumped.
医生只知道这是某种脑部肿胀，即脑炎，但这是个很大的门类，涵盖了许多种疾病。医生们针对脑肿胀的一些已知原因进行了检验，包括脑膜炎和日本脑炎（即流行性乙型脑炎。——译注），但检验结果几乎全部是阴性的。印度高层卫生官员说，他们对这种正式称呼为“急性脑炎综合症”(acute encephalitis syndrome)的疾病束手无策。
“This outbreak happens every year, and we have not been able to identify the cause or link even a single factor responsible,” Dr. L. S. Chauhan, the director of the National Center for Disease Control in India, said in an interview.
印度国家疾病控制中心(National Center for Disease Control)主任L·S·乔汗(L. S. Chauhan)博士在接受采访时说，“这种疫病每年都会爆发，我们却一直未能找出病因，甚至都找不到任何一个相关因素。”
Dr. Chauhan hopes to change that. With help from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, he started a program this year to train an elite cadre of disease sleuths, part of a recently organized Epidemic Intelligence Service in India that he hopes will eventually undertake the investigations of India’s estimated 1,500 epidemics.
乔汗希望能改变这个局面。在亚特兰大的疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的协助下，他在今年开始了一个项目，要培养一个疾病探查精英小组，作为近期成立的印度流行病情报局(Epidemic Intelligence Service)的一部分，希望能最终担负起印度约1500起疫病传播事件的调查工作。
But the outbreak in Muzaffarpur is slowly spreading to neighboring areas, and Dr. Chauhan has thrown everything he can at it, assigning all seven of his trainees — each already an accomplished physician. Experts from the C.D.C. are advising them, and their work is being closely followed by concerned officials in the United States.
但是穆扎夫法尔普尔的疫情正在慢慢向周边地区扩散，为此乔汗已经投入了全部的力量，将他的七名学员——他们本身都已是功成名就的医生——悉数指派到该疾病的工作中。美国的疾控中心专家在向他们提供建议，而在美国的相关官员也在密切关注他们的工作。
The first reports of this mysterious illness date to 1995, when nearly 1,000 children were sickened and 300 died in Muzaffarpur’s three hospitals. Smaller epidemics have followed almost every year since.
关于这种神秘疾病的报告最早出现在1995年，当时有将近1000名儿童患病，300人死在穆扎夫法尔普尔的三家医院里。此后几乎每年都有疫情爆发，但规模略小。
Officials say they do not know whether the illness began in 1995 or had simply gone unnoticed before. Not only has it spread to nearby areas, but researchers have also recently found similar cases in neighboring Nepal. Some outbreaks in India have gone unreported because officials suppressed any mention for fear of prompting panic or criticism.
官员称，他们不知道这种病是不是从1995年开始出现的，也可能只是之前没注意到。现在它已经不只是传播到周边地区，研究人员在邻国尼泊尔也发现了类似病例。由于官方担心出现恐慌或遭到责难，封锁了一切消息，因此印度的一部分疫情是没有得到报道的。
“India has a huge problem with encephalitis,” said Dr. Rajesh Pandey, one of the epidemiologists camped out in Muzaffarpur, “and it’s not something almost anyone knows about.”
“印度存在严重的脑炎问题，”驻扎在穆扎夫法尔普尔的其中一位流行病学家拉杰什·潘迪(Rajesh Pandey)医生说，“这事情不是谁都知道的。”
The illness is often confused with Japanese encephalitis, which generally arrives just after the start of the monsoons and peaks in the fall, as it is spread by mosquitoes that breed in standing water. But this affliction starts a couple of months earlier and ends with the monsoon.
这种疾病经常会和日本脑炎混为一谈，后者通常是季风开始时爆发，季风结束时达到顶峰，传播靠的是积水滋养的蚊子。但是这种病爆发的时间要早几个月，在季风到来时结束。
“This is a real mystery,” Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the C.D.C. director, said in a telephone interview. “We’re not sure we’ll be able to solve it, but at least we can unleash the best epidemiological tools we have to try to answer the question.”
“这完全是个谜，”美国疾控中心主任托马斯·R·弗雷登(Thomas R. Frieden)博士在一次电话采访中说。“我们不知道是不是能解开这个谜，但至少我们可以拿出最好的流行病学手段去尝试找到答案。”
Dr. Chauhan’s team has been given a rustic guesthouse next to a hospital here. There is no air-conditioning, the beds sag and the electricity is fitful. But there is an urgency to the doctors’ work. They gather almost every night in a small dining room to update crude posters with information about each case and debate their theories. A new virus, an old bacteria, litchis, alcoholic tree sap, heat, pesticides, rats, bats and sand flies are among the suspected causes.
乔汗博士的团队在医院旁边的一座破旧的家庭旅馆驻扎下来。房间没有空调，床铺松松垮垮，电力断断续续。但是医生们的时间很紧。他们几乎每晚都要在一个小餐厅里开会，把每个病例的信息更新到粗略的图板上，讨论各自的理论。目前有嫌疑的病因包括一种新病毒、一种旧细菌、荔枝、含酒精的树液、炎热、杀虫剂、老鼠、蝙蝠和白蛉。
In the nearby hospital, parents say in hushed tones that a ghost must be angry. Some paint black spots on siblings’ foreheads to ward off the evil eye.
在附近的医院，父母们压低声音说，一定是有鬼发怒了。一些人还会在子女的额头上涂上黑点，来抵挡恶灵的目光。
Investigators have collected samples of blood, urine and spinal fluid from each of this year’s sick children — there were 133, 59 of whom died — and they asked their parents more than 150 questions about the children’s food, water, sleeping arrangements and villages.
研究人员从今年每一个患病儿童身上搜集了的血样、尿样和脑脊液样本。总共有133名患儿，其中59名已经死亡。研究人员还向患儿的父母询问了超过150个问题，涉及患儿的食物、饮水、睡眠状况和村落的情况。
Since cases tend to be isolated, the illness probably does not spread in the traditional person-to-person way, like the flu or tuberculosis. So the researchers are looking not only for the cause (virus, bacteria or toxin), but also for a carrier (rats, livestock or bats) and perhaps even for a vehicle (sand flies, drink or fruit). The investigation is like a highly complex puzzle, in which every piece must be solved.
因为病例往往是孤立的，所以这种疾病可能并不像流感或结核病那样，是以传统的人传人途径传播的。所以研究人员不仅在寻找病原（病毒、细菌或毒物），也在寻找病原携带者（老鼠、牲畜或蝙蝠），可能也需要寻找传播途径（沙蝇、饮水或水果）。这场调查就像一个十分复杂的谜题，其中的每一环都需要解答出来。
A day in the field with Dr. Pandey revealed the magnitude of the task. It took him to a tiny cluster of brick-and-bamboo huts that made up the village of Chotta Sindhwari and the home of Mohammad Nasir, who goes by Nasir, a 10-year-old hospitalized two weeks earlier with brain swelling.
跟着潘迪用一天的时间进行实地调查，就会发现这个任务有多么艰巨。这场调查把他带到了位于乔塔·信德瓦里村的穆罕默德·纳斯尔(Mohammad Nasir)家，这个村子是由一小撮砖头和竹子建成的小棚子组成的。纳斯尔是一名10岁的儿童，两周前刚因为脑部肿胀而入院。
Dr. Pandey asked to see where Nasir slept. His parents showed him a small room in a brick building with a mud floor, a bamboo roof and a wooden sleeping platform. Flies buzzed around; a young goat wandered in. Sacks of corn and rice, a magnet for rats, were piled near the bed. There was little ventilation, which could create excess heat. Mango, banana, palm and litchi trees were nearby. Dr. Pandey took notes on it all.
潘迪要求看看纳斯尔是在哪里睡觉的。纳斯尔的父母向他展示了一栋砖质建筑里的一个小房间，房间地面是泥的、屋顶是竹的，里面有一个木质的台子是他睡觉的地方。苍蝇嗡嗡地飞来飞去，一只小山羊会溜达进来。靠近床板的地方堆着一袋袋玉米和大米，这里会招引老鼠。房间的通风很差，这就可能使其非常炎热。附近有芒果树、香蕉树、棕榈树和荔枝树，潘迪把这些情况一一记了下来。
Five siblings slept on the platform, and there was mosquito netting above it. But Nasir’s mother said she sometimes found him sleeping on the mud floor outside the netting.
床板上睡着兄弟姐妹五人，上方挂着蚊帐。然而纳斯尔的母亲说，她有时会发现，纳斯尔睡在蚊帐外的泥地上。
Water came from a nearby pump. There was standing water with mosquito larvae, which Dr. Pandey collected in a small plastic bottle. They will be grown later for identification.
水取自附近的一座水井，这里有一块含有蚊虫卵的死水，潘迪将蚊虫卵收集到塑料小瓶里，将来会对它们进行培养从而以做辨识。
“This well is probably shallow, and they drink from it directly,” Dr. Pandey said, making it a possible source of fecal contamination. Some have guessed that the disease is an intestinal virus carried in contaminated water. But patients with such infections usually have enlarged spleens, something not seen in the affected children, Dr. Pandey said.
潘迪表示，“这口井可能很浅，他们会直接从中饮水。”这就可能构成了粪便污染的来源。一些人猜测，疾病来自污水中携带的一种肠道病毒。但感染这种病毒的人常常发生脾肿大，而患病儿童并未出现这种症状。
He asked about the village’s use of pesticides. (A separate team of environmental experts will soon test villages for pesticide and toxin residues.) He visited its grove of litchi trees. One theory is that infected bats contaminate the fruit, which ripen in May and June.
他又询问了村子里使用杀虫剂的情况。（另一组环境专家很快将会在各个村子里检测杀虫剂和毒物残留。）他还查看了村子里的荔枝树丛，有一种理论是患病的蝙蝠污染了水果，而水果会在5月、6月成熟。
As if on cue, a cheerful old man walked through the grove carrying a clay pot of palm sap, which becomes mildly alcoholic in the summer heat. The pot was filled with a milky brew, dead insects and perhaps some bat feces and urine. Maybe children find a way to drink it, Dr. Pandey speculated, or their parents, inured to its effects, drink it and somehow pass along an infection.
时间正好，一个老人兴冲冲地从荔枝树丛间走过，手里提着一个盛满椰枣汁的陶壶，在夏季的温度下，椰枣汁变得微微有了些酒精度。壶中满是乳白色的浆液，其中还有死昆虫，或许还有蝙蝠的粪便很尿液。潘迪猜测，或许孩子们想方设法喝到了里面的液体，或许他们的父母喝下了椰枣汁，习惯了其影响，但把疾病传递了下去。
Then Dr. Pandey walked down the village’s dirt road to find a random child of Nasir’s age and perform the same survey. He was pursued by a pack of curious children, one of whom eventually stepped forward like an army recruit — chest out, head up — to answer the doctor’s questions.
之后潘迪沿着村里的土路走，随机找和纳斯尔年龄相仿的孩子们进行同样的调查。他被一群好奇的儿童跟着，其中一个孩子最终像应征入伍的新兵一样向前一步走，抬头挺胸地回答医生的问题。
The village visit took five hours, and the study will need about 360 subjects. The epidemiologists say they have been working 14-hour days.
拜访这个村子花了五个小时，而这项研究需要大约360名对象。流行病学家说，他们每天要工作14小时。
“I’m here until we finish,” Dr. Pandey said.
潘迪说，“我们不做完我就不走。”