Xie Chengfeng had a fever. Otherwise, the Chinese golfer would have been driving his orange coupe to the practice range on this June morning rather than languishing in bed, cold towel on his forehead, in his four-story mansion. Five years ago, Xie (pronounced “shee-eh”) and his family uprooted themselves and moved to Mission Hills, a sprawling golf resort in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen for just one purpose: so he could become the next Tiger Woods.
谢乘风（音译）发烧了，要不然，这个6月的早晨，这位中国高尔夫球手本应开着他的橘红色小车到练习场去，而不是留在有四层楼的家中，额头敷着冷毛巾痛苦地躺在床上。五年前，谢和全家搬到观澜湖(Mission Hills)——中国南方城市深圳一处宽阔的高尔夫度假胜地，他们来此只有一个目的，就是要让谢成为下一个老虎伍兹(Tiger Woods)。
Nearly every day of the year, when he’s not competing in a tournament, Xie works out in the morning, using the punching bag, medicine balls and bull whip (to strengthen his wrists) in the second-floor living room overlooking a quiet lagoon. Then he’s off to the members-only driving range for two hours of training, hitting balls with every club in his bag. After lunch, Xie works on chipping and putting before playing a round on one of Mission Hills’ 22 courses (it bills itself as the world’s largest golf club). Nearly every other activity is designed to benefit Xie’s golf game: piano lessons to strengthen his fingers; math tutorials to help him calculate distances, wind speeds and green breaks; and a daily English class to prepare him for his eventual arrival on the PGA Tour.
一年到头，只要不参加巡回赛，谢乘风都会在早上锻炼体能。在可以俯瞰楼下环礁湖的二楼起居室里，他使用沙包袋、医疗球和牛皮鞭（用来增强腕部力量）来锻炼。然后他下楼到只对会员开放的发球场做两小时训练，轮流用袋中的每一只球杆击球。午饭后，谢做一些滚地球和推杆练习，之后在观澜湖的22个球场之中的某一个打一轮比赛——这里自称世界上最大的高尔夫俱乐部。谢的几乎每一项活动都是围绕着高尔夫球量身定制：钢琴课是为了增强手指力量，数学课是为了帮助他计算距离、风速和果岭地形；每天的英语课是帮他为最终进军PGA巡回赛做准备。
Xie is 8 years old.
谢乘风今年8岁。
When I visited his family home last month, the boy’s father, Xie Xiaochun, handed me a plate of papayas grown on their back patio and an album of baby photos of his only child. One set of pictures showed the chubby toddler in a navy blue sweater vest, swinging a golf club. “He started hitting balls when he was 2½ years old — younger than Tiger was when he began!” Xie’s father told me in Mandarin. Barely six months after his son began playing golf, Xie Xiaochun — a 43-year-old migrant from northeastern China who made a fortune in the trucking-logistics business — bought this house, and the golf membership that came with it, so his son would have ready access to world-class courses and instruction.
上个月，当我去他家的时候，这个男孩的父亲谢小春（音译）递给我一盘他家后院长出的木瓜，以及一本他的独生子还是婴儿时的影集。其中一组照片上，这个天使般的小男孩穿着深蓝色的背心，挥舞着高尔夫球球杆。“他两岁半就开始击球了——比老虎伍兹还早！”这位父亲用普通话对我说。43岁的谢小春来自东北，靠做物流起家，儿子开始打球之后不到半年，他就买下了这栋随赠高尔夫球场会员资格的房子，让儿子可以在世界级的球场打球，并接受世界级的指导。
You can’t call Xie a school dropout. He has never attended school. “He really didn’t want to go, and I thought it was a waste of time he could use for golf training,” his father said. As his peers went off to first grade, the outgoing boy enrolled in a succession of golf academies — first at Mission Hills at the Cindy Reid Golf Academy, named after an American teaching pro, then at one on Hainan Island run by Tiger Woods’s former coach, Hank Haney, and finally at a summer golf camp in Japan. Father and son are now back home, working on their own regimen. Xie’s parents still call him Xiao Bao, or Little Baby: at nearly 5-foot-3 (two inches shorter than his father) and 120 pounds, he dwarfs his 8-year-old competition. (Though his parents are small, their homeland in northeastern China is known for producing giants.) When asked to name his favorite club, Xie replied. “The driver, of course!” He can hit it nearly 220 yards, about as far as the average adult amateur — and about 50 yards past his peers.
谢乘风算不上是辍学生。他从没去过学校。“他真的不想上学。我觉得上学是浪费他练高尔夫球的时间，”他的父亲说。当同龄人在上小学一年级时，这个活泼外向的男孩已成为一系列高尔夫球学校的学员。先是在观澜山的辛迪瑞高尔夫学校(Cindy Reid Golf Academy)，校名是以一位美国教练的名字命名的；之后他又去了海南岛上一个由老虎伍兹的前教练汉克·哈尼(Hank Haney)开办的学校；最后又去了日本一个夏季高尔夫球训练营。父子两人现在回到家中，按自己的方式进行训练。谢的父母仍然叫他“小宝”，他比8岁的同龄孩子要高大很多，身高已经接近5英尺3英寸（约1米6——译注），比父亲矮两英寸，体重120磅（约55公斤——译注。尽管父母身材都不高，但在他们的家乡中国东北出了很多高个子）。问他最喜欢的球杆是什么，谢答道：“当然是木杆！”他可以挥舞木杆，击出220码的球，几乎是成人业余选手的平均成绩，比同龄人的平均水平远50码。
Xie said his feverish symptoms began during a tournament the day before. I hadn’t noticed, because his sunburned face always looked flushed, especially above his all-pink golf ensemble. He ended up with a third-place trophy, but his mother whispered to me: “He often feels sick when he doesn’t play too well.” Despite the fever, when I asked about the car in the driveway, Xie shuffled downstairs to show me the full-size, Chinese-made electric car — a gift from his father for his 6th birthday. Plastered on the car’s back window was a “test driver” sticker; the logo on the side, because of an intentionally displaced “S,” read “Peedway.” “He’s big enough to drive,” his father said. “He’s just not allowed to leave Mission Hills.”
谢乘风说，他昨天比赛时就有点发烧了。我并没注意到，因为他黝黑的脸庞总是红扑扑的，特别是衬着那套粉红色的高尔夫球装备。比赛他获得了第三名，但他的母亲悄悄告诉我：“他一打不好球就生病。”虽然发烧了，但当我问起车道上的车子时，谢还是慢慢走到楼下，给我看那辆中国制造的完整规格电动汽车——这是父亲送他的6岁生日礼物。汽车后窗上贴着“实习”的标记；汽车的标志在侧面，是“Speedway”，但“S”被故意撤下了，所以就成了“Peedway”。“他够大了，可以开车了，”父亲说，“但他不能把车开出观澜湖。”
The People’s Republic might seem an unlikely incubator for golf prodigies. Chairman Mao, after all, banned the game in 1949 as so much bourgeois frippery and had the handful of golf courses that predated the Communist revolution plowed under. The taboo lasted 35 years. China’s first golf course built since then is not yet three decades old — younger than Tiger Woods. Even today, the state ostensibly outlaws the construction of new courses in mainland China, lest they gobble up too much scarce land and water — an edict that, though flouted in places, still limits the growth of the game. Then there’s the paucity of role models: though the country churns out Olympic champions in sports from diving to table tennis, China has just four professional golfers — two men, two women — ranked in the world’s top 300.
中华人民共和国可能不太像培育高尔夫天才的好地方。毕竟，1949年，毛主席把这项运动和其他很多小资产阶级消遣一起禁掉了；共产主义革命之前建造的少数几个高尔夫球场也消失不见。这一禁令持续了35年。其后中国建造的第一个高尔夫球场至今只有不到30年的历史——比老虎伍兹的年纪还小。即便在今天，国家在表面上仍然禁止在中国大陆地区建造新的高尔夫球场，因为它们占据了太多宝贵的土地资源和水资源。该禁令尽管在一些地区无人遵守，但仍然限制了这项运动的发展。所以行业内也没有什么榜样可言：从跳水到乒乓球，尽管中国在许多体育项目上可以包揽奥运金牌，但只有两男两女四个职业高尔夫球选手进入了世界排名前300位。
And yet Chinese wunderkinds are now beginning to infiltrate some of the highest levels of golf. First came 14-year-old Andy Zhang, who played in last year’s U.S. Open. Then, in April, Guan Tianlang, also 14, dazzled at the Masters. The boy in popsicle-colored pants — the youngest ever to tee off at the tournament — made the cut despite a rare slow-play penalty that angered his new fans (the rapper Lil Wayne tweeted: “Shame on the Masters”). With disarming maturity, the eighth-grader never scored worse than a bogey in four rounds and became the toast of the tournament. Gary Player said: “Mark my words: we are witnessing the most historic moment golf has experienced in my lifetime.”
然而中国神童们开始向高尔夫球的最高级别赛事进军了。先是14岁的张华参加了去年的美国公开赛。今年4月，同样14岁的关天朗在美国大师赛(Masters)上技惊四座。这个穿彩色裤子的男孩是历史上参加这一赛事的最年轻选手。尽管受到少见的击球过慢判罚，但他还是取得了进入后两场比赛的资格，这个判罚令他的新球迷们感到愤怒——说唱歌手利尔·韦恩(Lil Wayne)发推特说：“大师赛真丢人。”这个8年级学生有着令人折服的成熟，四场比赛中， 最差成绩也是高于标准杆一杆，他成了这次比赛的焦点。格雷·普雷尔(Gary Player)说：“记下我的话：我们在见证我这一生中高尔夫球史上最重大的历史性时刻。”
And the prodigies keep getting younger. In May, Ye Wocheng — at 12 years old, not even a teenager — became the youngest golfer ever to compete in a European Tour event when he played in the China Open. (The record he broke was set the year before by none other than his Chinese rival, Guan.) Ye has been playing since he was 4 — two-thirds of his life — so he wasn’t kidding when he said, through his braces, “I’ve dreamed of this since I was a boy.”
这些神童们的年纪愈来愈年轻。5月，12岁的叶沃诚（几乎连“少年”都算不上）在中国公开赛上亮相，成了欧洲巡回赛上最年轻的高尔夫球选手，打破了他的中国同胞关天朗去年创造的最年轻选手记录。叶沃诚从4岁就开始打球，也就是说，他人生的2/3都在打高尔夫球中度过，所以戴着牙套的他说的这句话并不是开玩笑：“我从小就梦想着这一刻。”
These three boys may be just the beginning. Beyond them, training with ferocious intensity, is a small but growing band of younger Chinese golfers — some, like Xie, just 7 or 8 — who are starting to win international tournaments. We’ve come to expect such precociousness from China’s assembly line of Olympic gymnasts and female weight lifters — athletes plucked from relatively poor families at an early age and molded into champions by the Soviet-style state sports machine. But the case of the golf prodigies is more curious and complex, offering an unusual window into modern China.
这三个男孩可能不过是个开头。除了他们，还有一些更年轻的中国高尔夫球手（比如只有七八岁的谢乘风），这个群体人数虽少，但却在不断增长；他们刻苦训练，已经开始在国际赛事上获奖。我们熟悉中国制造早熟奥运体操选手和女子举重选手的流水线——从贫困家庭中挑选出来的年轻选手被苏联模式的国家体育机器塑造成冠军。但高尔夫神童的模式更加奇异复杂，可以成为了解现代中国的一扇特别窗口。
The wealthy children of China’s economic boom — the fu er dai, or “second-generation rich” — are often derided as “little emperors,” so spoiled by privilege that they need never strive nor suffer. The reputation is, in many cases, richly deserved, and you would never confuse hitting golf balls off the Bermuda grass at Mission Hills with laboring in a steel mill or a garment factory. Even so, these boys and girls, whether driven by desire or family pressure, often train nonstop, with very few days off, under a parental discipline that can rival the toughest coaches in the Chinese sports system.
中国经济发展大潮中，出身于富有家庭的“富二代”儿童们经常被贬称为“小皇帝”，他们娇生惯养，根本不用经历任何奋斗和痛苦。在很多时候，这个说法确实名副其实，在观澜湖的百慕大草坪上打高尔夫球，这确实和在钢铁厂或制衣厂做工有着天壤之别。尽管如此，这些孩子们受到个人欲望或家庭压力的驱使，往往全年无休地不停训练，父母对他们的管束与中国体育体制下最严厉的教练不相上下。
Obsessive parenting exists everywhere, of course. But in China, the sudden explosion of wealth and the preponderance of only children (because of the restrictive one-child policy still prevalent in many parts of the country) intensifies the anxiety of parents willing to go to almost any extreme to turn their child into the next Tiger Woods. Many foreign pros worry that children who are pushed to train so hard will burn out long before they reach their prime. Yet the tantalizing sight of a Chinese boy at the Masters has compelled some parents to push even harder. “Guan has inspired a lot of people,” says a foreign pro in Beijing. “But I now have parents of 13-year-olds asking me, ‘Does my son have the ability to play in the Masters?’ With that kind of attitude, you either quit or double down.”
当然，到处都有执迷于望子成龙的父母。但在中国，突然的财富大爆发与大量独生子女（强制性独生子女政策在中国许多地方仍然很普遍）增强了父母的焦虑，为了把自己唯一的孩子变成下一个老虎伍兹，他们愿意采取任何极端手段。许多国外的教练都担心，如果过分逼迫小孩刻苦训练，可能会使他们尚未到达巅峰期就到头了。但是“大师赛上的中国男孩”这幅画面实在太诱人，令许多家长变本加厉地逼迫自己的孩子。“关激励了很多人，”在北京的一个外国教练说，“但是现在不少13岁孩子的父母纷纷来问我：‘我儿子的水平能打大师赛吗？’有这种态度，你要么干脆退出，要么就得付出双倍努力。”
In the effort to create a Chinese star, families are not the only ones doubling down. Corporations, too, are eager to find a figure — golf’s version of the basketball star Yao Ming — who can help build a sport that appeals to China’s status-conscious elites. And now, an even bigger player has invested in the quest: the Chinese state. With golf’s reinstatement into the Olympic Games, starting in 2016, the medal-hungry government is taking a keen interest in the game it once disdained.
为了打造中国明星，付出双倍努力的不止是家庭。鉴于这项运动如此吸引身份意识强烈的中国精英阶层，大公司也在渴望寻找这项体育活动的代表人物——也就是篮球明星姚明的高尔夫球版。如今中国政府这个更大的玩家也开始投资高尔夫领域。2016年，高尔夫将重返奥林匹克赛事，渴望奖牌的中国政府又开始关注这个一度遭到蔑视的运动。
The head of the state-run China Golf Association, Zhang Xiaoning, says that golf’s emphasis on technique and mental strength, rather than sheer athleticism, makes it “ideally suited” for Chinese. (China even claims that a stick-and-ball game played by the elites during the Song dynasty nearly a millennium ago is the actual precursor to golf.) The challenge now is to expand the pool of athletes in a game that is almost the exclusive preserve of the very rich. So far, the C.G.A. has teamed with corporations to host tournaments, teach golf in primary schools and build a sophisticated national golf training center. In March, China even signed up Greg Norman, a former world No. 1, to help develop a national team that could win Olympic medals. There’s little chance of that in 2016, but with Guan, Ye and the pack of prodigies on the horizon, the future of golf already seems to be tilting toward China.
中国高尔夫球协会是一个政府机构，担任负责人的张小宁说，高尔夫运动强调技巧和意志力，而不是纯粹的运动能力，所以“十分适合”中国人（中国甚至声称，在将近1000多年前的宋朝，中国精英阶层有一种用球和棍子玩的游戏，它是高尔夫球真正的前身）。目前高尔夫球几乎是一种富裕阶层的专利，如何增加运动员数量是很大的问题。迄今中国高尔夫球协会已同企业合作，主办巡回赛，在小学教授高尔夫球，并建立了高级的国家高尔夫球训练中心。3月，中国甚至同世界前排名第一选手格里格·诺曼(Greg Norman)签约，帮助建立一支国家队，以求赢得奥林匹克奖牌。2016年的夺牌希望并不大，但有了关、叶和目前涌现出来的众多神童，高尔夫球的未来似乎在向中国倾斜。
Early one recent Saturday morning, a stream of luxury cars pulled into the parking lot at Bayhood No. 9, a golf club and the most popular training ground in Beijing. BMWs and Range Rovers, Porsches and a single silvery blue Rolls-Royce — each disgorged a child dressed in colorful golf attire. A lesson with the head pro in one of the club’s state-of-the-art plexiglass bays costs $250 an hour. The row of V.I.P. suites on the second floor — carpeted rooms with flat-screen televisions and two hitting mats — rent for $75,000 a year. When I inquired at the front desk, the attendant smiled. “The V.I.P. suites are fully booked until next year,” she said. “May I put your name on the waiting list?”
不久前的一个周六清晨，一队豪华轿车驶进北湖九号(Bayhood No. 9)，北京一家高尔夫球俱乐部，也是最受欢迎的训练中心。车队中有宝马、揽胜陆虎和保时捷，还有一辆银蓝色的劳斯莱斯，从每辆车里都走下一个穿鲜艳高尔夫球服的孩子。在俱乐部工艺卓绝的树脂玻璃房里听头牌教练讲课要花费每小时250美元。二楼有一排贵宾套间，屋里铺着地毯，有宽屏电视和两块高尔夫球击球垫，租金是75000美元一年。当我在前台询问时，招待员笑着说：“贵宾套间已经预订到明年了，我能把您的名字排进轮候名单吗？”
By 9 a.m., close to a dozen junior golfers were chipping and putting around the practice greens, a parent or pro hovering over each of them. A mother in sunglasses laid out 20 balls for a pudgy boy in electric blue pants, scolding him under her breath when he flubbed a chip, then squeezing his face with delight when he rolled one into the hole. Steps away, a chain-smoking man in an orange shirt that matched his orange-tinted hair stood over a bunker where his 11-year-old son blasted out one sand shot after another. “Wrists firm!” the father barked. “More loft!” he cried after another shot. How long did father and son plan to train that day? The man smiled: “We’ll be here until it’s too dark to see!”
上午9点，十几个小高尔夫球手在绿地上练习滚地球和推杆，每人身边都有一个亲属或教练。一个戴墨镜的母亲为一个穿亮蓝色裤子的矮个子男孩摆好20个球，看他打坏了一个滚地球，就低声责备他，等他推一个球滚入洞中，又高兴地捏了捏他的脸。几步之外，一个穿橘红色上衣，头发也染成橘红色的男人站在沙坑旁边一支接一支地抽烟，他11岁的儿子在沙子里一个接一个地打球。“手腕要稳！”父亲叫道，“再高点！”儿子每击完一个球他都这样喊道。他俩今天打算练多久？男人笑道：“我们要一直练到天黑看不见！”
China is producing some of the world’s best young golfers because wealthy families who have profited from the nation’s market reforms are replicating, in miniature, the formula of the socialist state sports system: pushing kids to specialize early and then having them chi ku, or “eat bitterness,” with relentless training. “Families are different in China,” says Chen Li, a golf father who accompanies his 10-year-old son through eight hours of training each weekend day. “In America, you offer kids a big plate with lots of choices, right? We give them a small plate — make them choose early — and stack it as high as possible.” He raised his hand higher and higher and then wobbled it. “The pressure can get pretty heavy.”
中国正在制造世界上最优秀的年轻高尔夫球手，在中国经济改革中致富的家庭开始小规模地复制社会主义国有体育制度的模式——迫使孩子们早早培养特长，之后用残酷的训练让他们“吃苦”。“在中国有各种各样的家庭，”每周六日陪10岁的儿子练习8小时高尔夫球的父亲陈立（音译）说，“在美国，你们给孩子们一个大盘子，里面有很多选择，对吧？我们给孩子们一个小盘子，让他们早早选择，最后里面的东西会堆得很高。”他把手越举越高，然后摇晃着，“压力也会很大。”
That same pressure exists across Chinese society as families coax their children to excel in piano, ballet, English or mathematics. Golf has landed on the menu of options only recently, as parents — many of whom do not play — are attracted to an outdoor family activity imbued with status, prestige and bright clothing. Thirty years ago, there were no golfers or golf courses in mainland China. Today there are around 400,000 regular golfers, a number that could easily double by 2020 as the middle class expands. The central government’s 2004 ban on course construction, meanwhile, has been subverted in some localities by a collusion of economic and political interests. As a result, the number of courses in China has grown to some 600 today from 170 in 2004, with 1,000 projected by 2020. (The U.S. has 15,000 courses, Japan 2,500.)
这种压力存在于整个中国社会，家庭哄着孩子们学钢琴、芭蕾、英语和数学。高尔夫是最近才加入的选项，父母们虽然很多人自己不打球，却被这项与身份、特权和光鲜衣着密不可分的户外家庭活动所吸引。30年前，在中国大陆根本没有高尔夫球手或高尔夫球场。如今已有40万人定期打高尔夫，随着中产阶级阶层的扩大，到2020年，这个数字或许会轻易翻番。2004年，中央政府禁止了新建高尔夫球场，但出于经济和政治的考虑，这一禁令被若干地方政府推翻。因此，中国高尔夫球场的数字从2004年的170座增长到如今的600座。预计2020年将达到1000座（目前美国有15000座高尔夫球场，日本有2500座）。
It is not simply a shortage of courses, competitions and coaching but the high prices for all of them that make junior golf a zone of exclusivity. Golf skews rich in other parts of the world too, but in the United States, juniors can gain cheap access to municipal courses and ranges. A network of local and national junior tournaments flows into high-school programs and university scholarships. None of this golf infrastructure, and the golf culture that accompanies it, exists in China. In the absence of a simple path forward, golf families are undertaking their own elaborate regimens for their promising sons or daughters.
不仅是场馆、竞赛与教练的短缺，这些设施的价格之高昂也令少年高尔夫球成为奢华的运动。高尔夫球在世界的其他地方也多少算富人运动，但在美国，少年儿童可以以较为便宜的价格进入市营的高尔夫球场和练习场。本地和国家少年高尔夫球巡回赛网络在中学和大学十分普及。中国却没有这些基础建设与相关文化。高尔夫家庭们没有简单的路可走，只能辛苦地为大有前途的子女们摸索自己的模式。
Inside the Bayhood clubhouse, I watched Daniel Tang, a 10-year-old boy in canary yellow pants, take a lesson with C. K. Tan, a popular Malaysian teaching pro. Tang has played golf for six years, the past four with professional instruction. He now ranks near the top of his age group nationally. His swing is nearly flawless, but his father wants him to add distance to his 190-yard drives. Tan videotaped the boy hitting a sand-filled impact bag to analyze his body rotation, club angle and club-head speed at impact.
在北湖俱乐部里，10岁的丹尼尔·唐(Daniel Tang)穿着淡黄色裤子，在上受欢迎的马来西亚教练C·K·谭(C. K. Tan)的课，而我则在一边观看。唐打高尔夫球6年了，过去4年间都在接受职业训练，他目前在全国的同年龄组里排名已近榜首。他的挥杆近乎完美无瑕，他能击出190码的远球，父亲希望他增加这个距离。谭录下了这个男孩挥杆击打沙袋的动作，以便分析他的身体旋转、挥杆角度和杆头击球速度。
After the lesson, the boy took off his hat and shook my hand as politely as if we had just concluded a match on the 18th green. But he was hardly finished: he still had a few more hours of chipping and putting before an hour session with a golf-fitness trainer. (All the hard work would pay off. At a June tournament on the same mountain course near the Great Wall where he finished fifth a month earlier, Tang won his age division by three shots, shooting three over par for 27 holes.)
上完课，这个男孩摘下帽子，礼貌地同我握手，仿佛我们刚刚结束一场18洞比赛。但他的训练还没结束，他还要花几个小时做滚地球和推杆练习，之后是一个小时的高尔夫球体能训练（他的刻苦锻炼取得了回报。 同样是在这块长城边的山地球场，上个月他在那里完成了第五次比赛，而在6月的巡回赛上，唐以三球优势获得了该年龄组的冠军，以低于标准成绩三杆的成绩完成了27洞）。
Watching Daniel Tang putt in the fading sunlight, I asked his father, Tang Hui, how his son had become so devoted to golf. “When he was 5 years old,” Tang Hui said, “I told him, ‘Listen, if you focus on golf, I will invest whatever it takes.’ ” His son, he said, “did not object.”
看着丹尼尔·唐在落日下推杆，我问他的父亲唐辉（音译），他的儿子是怎样开始迷上高尔夫球的。“他5岁的时候，”唐辉说，“我告诉他，‘听着，如果你专心练高尔夫球，我花多少钱也愿意。’”他说，他的儿子“没有表示反对”。
Since then, their family life has bent to the gravitational pull of their only child’s golf career. Moving into a house closer to a golf course, Tang Hui installed a 400-square-foot putting green on the third floor so his son could practice at night and through Beijing’s long winters. Every winter over school holiday, Tang and his mother travel south, to China’s golf mecca, for up to a month of full-time training with another elite golfer, a bubbly 10-year-old girl named Ni Jiaman. Even the decision last year to transfer Tang out of a rigorous public school and into Ni’s international school in Beijing hinged on golf: a lighter homework load and more flexible schedule give him more time to train. The daily English classes, meanwhile, are priming him for his first U.S. tournaments — and perhaps a scholarship to an American university.
从那以后，他们的家庭生活就完全向这个独生儿子的高尔夫球生涯倾斜。他们搬到了一座高尔夫球场附近的房子，唐辉在家里的三楼铺上了一块400平方英尺的果岭，北京漫长的冬夜，儿子可以晚上在家练习。每年寒假，丹尼尔·唐和母亲都会到中国南部的高尔夫球圣地呆上一个月，和另一个精英高尔夫球手一起训练。那是一个相貌欢快的女孩，名叫倪家曼（音译）。去年家人决定让唐转学，离开严格的公立学校，转到北京倪家曼就读的国际学校，这个决定也是为了高尔夫球：国际学校家庭作业负担较轻，课程安排灵活，方便他有更多时间训练。不过每天的英语课对他来说最重要，是为了他初次赴美参加巡回赛做准备，也许将来还要到美国大学就读。
The cost for this kind of pro training is steep. Even starting out, many golf families spend around $30,000 a year on lessons, greens fees and travel for tournaments and training. Expenses increase sharply when families start traveling to the United States for junior tournaments, enroll their children in full-time U.S. golf academies or hire a full-time foreign coach in China. At Bayhood No. 9, I asked the father of another junior if his investment in golf had been worth it. “Oh, I don’t look at this as an investment,” said the man, who often caddies for his son. “I see this as a chance to spend a lot of time with my son.” He raised an eyebrow. “If I weren’t doing this, I’d be spending all my time and money on my mistress.”
这种职业训练花费非常巨大。从刚起步时开始，许多高尔夫家庭的花费就已达到每年3万美元，用于学费、果岭费和参赛与去训练场地的交通费。当他们赴美参加少年组巡回赛、在美国高尔夫球协会给孩子登记或在中国聘用全职外籍教练后，费用还将直线上升。在北湖9号，我问另一个孩子的父亲，他在高尔夫球方面的投资是否物有所值。“啊，我不把这当做投资，”这个总是给儿子当球童的父亲说，“我觉得这是和儿子长时间相处的机会。”他扬起眉毛，“如果不这样，我就把时间和钱都用来包二奶了。”
Just north of the crimson walls of Beijing’s Forbidden City, off a busy eight-lane boulevard, is the government-run Shichahai sports school, which is known as the cradle of champions. More than 600 athletes live there year-round. Since its founding in 1958, Beijing’s athletic training base has molded dozens of Olympic gold medalists in every sport from taekwondo to table tennis, gymnastics to badminton. The Chinese film star Jet Li even learned martial arts there.
在北京紫禁城的红墙以北，热闹的八车道马路旁边，就是政府开办的什刹海体校，这里被视为冠军的摇篮。有600多个运动员整年住在这里。自1958年创建以来，这个北京运动员培训基地已经培养出了几十个奥运金牌得主，涵盖多个项目，从跆拳道到乒乓球，从体操到羽毛球。中国影星李连杰也是在这里学的武术。
One afternoon in June, in a basement at Shichahai, I watched a group of young golfers grimacing in pain as their coach led them through a series of calisthenics under a large red Chinese flag. This first cohort of golfers ever to live at Shichahai is evidence of China’s intent to develop golf as an Olympic sport. One of the most promising and youngest prospects is Luo Junyi, an 8-year-old girl with a button nose. Luo sometimes sees her parents on weekends, but she lives at Shichahai full time, abiding by the sports system’s rules of the “three togethers”: eating, sleeping and training with her fellow athletes.
6月的一个下午，在什刹海体校的一个地下室里，教练带着一群年轻的高尔夫球手在一面巨大的中国国旗下做体操，我看见球手们脸上露出痛苦的表情。他们是第一批住进什刹海的高尔夫球手，这证明高尔夫球运动重返奥运后，中国计划发展这项运动。8岁的罗君逸（音译）长着圆圆的小鼻头，是其中最年轻，也是最有希望的选手之一。她有时能在周末见到父母，但全天都住在什刹海体校，遵守“三集中”的体校制度——吃、睡、训练都和其他运动员们在一起。
The Shichahai coaches selected Luo because of her excellent tournament results — a boon because her family couldn’t keep up with the arms race of junior golf. When I first met Luo and her father in May, at a tournament where she finished second, she was playing a practice round with a 7-year-old boy, Eric Zhou, whose parents told me they spend $50,000 a year on his golf career. (Zhou, who won an international 6-and-under championship in Las Vegas last summer, went on to win this tournament, too, on the final hole; Luo finished second in her age group.) “We don’t have the same economic conditions as the others,” Luo’s father told me. “So when Shichahai offered my daughter a spot, we took it.” The Beijing school charges $350 a month for room, board, classes and golf training — a fraction of what other parents spend. If she makes the Beijing team, the tuition will be waived.
什刹海体校的教练们看中的是罗在巡回赛中的优异成绩，能进入体校是一种恩惠，因为她的父母负担不起少年高尔夫球“军备竞赛”的高昂费用。我第一次见到罗和她的父亲是在5月的巡回赛上，她获得第二名，当时她和7岁的男孩埃里克·周(Eric Zhou)打了一局练习赛，周的父母说他们每年在周的高尔夫球生涯上花费5万美元（去年夏天，周在拉斯维加斯获得国际6岁及以下年龄组的第一名，这次巡回赛也获得第一，在最后一洞才决出胜负，罗在自己的年龄组获得第二）。罗的父亲告诉我：“我们没有别人的经济条件，所以什刹海给我女儿一个名额，我们就接受了。”这座北京体校每月收取350美元作为食宿、文化课和高尔夫球训练课费用，这点钱和其他父母花的钱相比简直太少了。如果她能入选北京队，费用还可免除。
Spurred by the 2009 decision to bring golf back into the Olympics, the Chinese sports system is trying to make up for lost time. So far, the C.G.A. has built a three-tier system of pro, amateur and junior national teams, and — by making golf a medal sport in the National Games — compelling Chinese provinces to form their own teams. To expand the base of young golfers, the C.G.A. has worked with HSBC to host junior tournaments and to teach golf in primary schools, reaching tens of thousands of children. That is a tiny number in a country of more than 1.3 billion, and even the C.G.A.’s head of training, Li Dazheng, frets that the “assembly line” China has created for other sports does not yet exist for golf. Still, according to Michael Dickie, the Scotland-born head coach of China’s women’s Olympic team, “no other country in the world is putting as many resources into golf as China. It’s unparalleled.”
2009年，高尔夫球被重新列入奥运赛事，中国体育体系受到激励，希望弥补失去的时间。迄今中国高尔夫球协会已经建立起职业选手、业余选手和国家少年队三层体系，并把高尔夫球列入全运会项目，借此促使各省建立起自己的高尔夫球队。为了增加年轻高尔夫球手基数，中国高尔夫球协会和汇丰银行合作，主办少年高尔夫球巡回赛，在小学开设高尔夫球课，面向上万名孩子授课。相对于这个国家的13亿人口，这个数字很小，就连中国高尔夫球协会的培训主任李大正都抱怨，中国的高尔夫球培训中没有其他运动项目里的那种“流水线”。然而中国女子奥运队总教练，苏格兰出生的迈克尔·迪基(Michael Dickie)说：“世界上没有其他任何一个国家像中国一样，在高尔夫球领域拥有那么多资源。这是绝无仅有的。”
Luo is the only female golfer at Shichahai — and far more boys than girls show up at junior tournaments — but China’s sports system prides itself on developing male and female athletes with equal vigor. “We are focusing on women,” C.G.A.’s chief, Zhang Xiaoning, says, “because Chinese women have a greater chance of achieving breakthroughs on the international stage.” They already have: Feng Shanshan, 23, won last year’s L.P.G.A. Championship, a major, and is ranked No. 6 in the world. Two top teenage girls received golf scholarships to Duke and Georgetown. And while Feng is the lone Chinese woman in the top 100, many golf families look to South Korea for greater inspiration: Korean women now account for an astonishing 35 of the L.P.G.A.’s top 100.
罗君逸是什刹海体校内的唯一女高尔夫球手，在少年巡回赛中，男孩也远比女孩要多，但中国的体育体系以培养拥有同等能力的男女运动员而自豪。“我们关注女选手，”中国高尔夫球协会主任张小宁说：“因为中国女选手更有机会在国际赛事上取得突破。”她们已经做到了——23岁的冯珊珊赢得了去年的重要赛事，LPGA锦标赛，目前世界排名第6。有两位十几岁的顶级女选手在杜克大学和乔治敦大学获得高尔夫球学位。冯珊珊是中国女选手中唯一一个进入世界排名前100位的，很多高尔夫家庭把韩国视为更大的榜样：韩国女选手有35人打入LPGA赛事前100名，这是个十分惊人的数目。
The C.G.A.’s biggest gambit is an $80 million national golf training center inaugurated last year in Nanshan in Shandong Province, on China’s eastern coast. The facility, built to C.G.A. specifications by the Nanshan Group, a Chinese conglomerate, is meant to surpass the most advanced training centers in the West. Beyond the gimmicks — bunkers with four kinds of sand, colorful bushes shaped into the five Olympic rings — the center has several hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of the latest digital swing technology. So far, however, the machines are rarely used. A junior golf academy trains at the range, but the technology is reserved largely for the national teams, which convene there sporadically. “The equipment is like an X-ray machine,” says one coach. “You only need it once or twice per year.”
中国高尔夫球协会最大的动作是斥资8000万美元打造的国家高尔夫球训练中心，去年在中国东海岸的山东省南山落成。这座设施由中国高尔夫球协会修建，由中国大企业南山集团赞助，旨在超越西方最先进的训练中心。中心里有配备四种沙子的沙坑，被修剪成奥运五环的彩色灌木，除了这些小花样，还配备了数台价值数十万美元的最先进的数码挥杆练习器材。不过这些机器很少用得上。一个少年高尔夫球协会在练习场里训练，但器材主要是为国家队留着的，他们不时来到这里集中训练。“这种设备有点像X光机，”一个教练说，“一年也就用上一两次。”
The city-level training facility at Shichahai, a converted boxing gym with seven artificial-turf golf mats and nets, has none of that sophistication. Five days a week, after taking morning classes, Luo and her teammates smash golf balls into nets; on weekends, they play on local courses. Their two Chinese coaches have little expertise: one is a young college graduate with a degree in golf-management studies, while the other is a former national taekwondo champion who, though fanatical about conditioning, confessed to me that he had never hit a golf ball before being assigned to the team last year. A foreign teaching pro comes once a month to give lessons, but it’s a different person each time. “We would like to have more consistent lessons with a foreign pro,” Luo’s father said. “But what option do we have?”
什刹海体校的市级训练场地就没那么高级了，它是由一个拳击馆改造的，里面有七块带球垫和练习网的人工高尔夫球草皮。一周有5天时间，上完上午的文化课，罗君逸和队友们就来这里把高尔夫球挥入网中，周末他们在本地的球场上打球。他们的两个中国教练没什么专业技能：一个是年轻的大学毕业生，有高尔夫球管理研究学位，另一个是空手道前国家冠军，尽管他对训练十分狂热，但向我坦白说，在去年分配到这个队之前，他从来没打过高尔夫球。有外国教练每月来给他们上一次课，但每次都换一个人。“我们希望能让同一个外国教练来上课，保持连贯性，”罗的父亲说，“但我们有什么选择呢？”
China’s junior-golf trailblazers, Guan Tianlang and Ye Wocheng, live two hours from each other in southern Guangdong Province. In some ways, Ye has been chasing his older rival from the moment he picked up his first golf club, by accident, at age 4. Left alone for a minute at a driving range, Ye tried to swing his father’s giant Callaway driver — and shattered it against a partition. “I was furious,” recalls his father, a construction-company boss. “That club cost me more than a thousand dollars.” The next day, he bought his son a set of small clubs and showed him a hitting net in a local golf shop. “Let him hit balls as long as he can,” he told the shop owner, “and give him a Coke only if he sweats.” Even at 4, Ye hit balls all afternoon until his face dripped with sweat.
中国少年高尔夫球的先驱者关天朗和叶沃诚都住在广东省南部，两家相距只有两小时车程。在某些方面，叶自从第一次拿起球杆之日起，就在追赶自己这位年长竞争者的步伐。那完全是一次意外，发生在他4岁那年。有那么一分钟，发球训练区只有他一个人，他试着挥舞父亲巨大的卡拉威木杆，把它磕在隔墙上摔坏了。“我气坏了，”他的父亲，一个建筑公司老板说，“那球杆值一千多美元。”第二天，他在当地高尔夫球用品店给儿子买了一套小型球杆，给他看一个练球网。“让他击球，能打多远就多远，”他告诉店主，“等他出汗才能给他喝可乐。”只有4岁的叶打了一下午球，直到汗流满面。
The prizes for both boys would get only sweeter and more addictive. At 6, Guan was already winning trophies at local tournaments and preparing for his first competitions in the United States. His father and mother did not take him out of school, but they pulled back from their own businesses and invested all of their time — and part of their considerable wealth — into his career. Guan’s father was, and remains, his primary coach, but as the boy prepared for his first U.S. tournaments, he took lessons from Dan Webb, a Canadian teaching pro then based in Guangzhou. Guan had already been golfing for two years, Webb says, “and he could imitate the swings of four pros: Tiger, Furyk, Els, DiMarco.” The boy not only dressed like a pro, with primary-color pants hand-sewn by his mother, but he also had the preternatural calm of a tour veteran. “His real talent,” Webb says, “was his self-belief.”
等待两个男孩的奖励变得愈来愈甜美迷人。6岁那年，关天朗已经开始在本地巡回赛上赢得奖杯，并为初次赴美参赛做准备。他的父母没让他退学，但他们放弃了自己的生意，把自己的时间和相当一部分财富投资在儿子的事业上。关的父亲过去是，现在也一直是儿子的基础教练。但关为美国巡回赛做准备时，他也去上丹·韦布(Dan Webb)的课，韦布是一位加拿大教练，当时居住在广州。那会儿关已经打了两年高尔夫球，韦伯说：“他能模仿四个职业选手的挥杆：老虎、福瑞克(Furyk)、埃尔斯(Els)和迪马科(DiMarco)。”这个男孩穿着母亲亲手缝制的原色球裤，他不只是穿得像个职业选手，也有了巡回赛老手那种不可思议的冷静。“他真正的天赋就是他的自信，”韦布说。
Not all of China’s top juniors have perfect technique — indeed, Guan’s swing is considered flawed — but their mental strength and self-confidence set them apart. At the Masters, the 14-year-old Guan startled reporters when, in his soft voice, he pronounced: “I wish, one day, I can win all four majors in one year.” Nobody has won golf’s Grand Slam in a calendar year in the modern era, not even Woods. Guan’s statement was too innocent to be considered arrogant, but it did reflect the sky-is-the-limit ambitions of modern China.
中国的顶尖少年选手并不是个个都拥有完美的技巧——关天朗的挥杆也有很大缺陷——但精神力量和自信让他们出类拔萃。在大师赛上，14岁的关用温和的声音宣布：“我希望今后可以在一年内赢得四项重大赛事。”记者们不禁为之震惊。在现代，从来没有人在一年内赢得高尔夫四项赛事的大满贯，就连伍兹也做不到。关的宣言太过天真，不能被视为傲慢，但它确实反映了现代中国人的无限雄心壮志。
Ye hasn’t lagged far behind Guan in achievements or self-confidence. He broke par when he was 8. By 9, he was winning most tournaments in his age group in China. But filling his family’s three-story house with junior trophies — more than 100 now line the bookshelves — was never the ultimate goal. Early on, watching a P.G.A. tournament on TV, Ye fixated on Woods — not because of his swing or personality but because he pulled off brilliant shots under pressure. “Even when I was 9,” Ye told me, “I was dreaming about being No. 1 in the world.”
无论是在成绩还是在自信方面，叶沃诚都与关天朗相去不远。他8岁那年就打出了低于标准杆的成绩。9岁那年，他赢得了中国同龄组大部分赛事的冠军。他的家是一栋3层小楼，书架上已经陈列了100多个奖杯，但这绝不是他的终极目标。前些时候，在电视里看PGA巡回赛时，叶目不转睛地盯着伍兹，不仅是因为他的挥杆技术或人格魅力，而是因为他承受压力打出了好球。“我9岁时就梦想着成为世界第一，”叶告诉我。
Chinese families may be able to create perfect petri-dish conditions for incubating golf prodigies: discipline, focus, hard work, unwavering support. But creating a world-class golfer requires a deeper level of expertise than Ye’s local Chinese pro could offer. At a junior event in 2010, Ye and his father were introduced to David Watson, a veteran British touring pro who had become a sort of Pied Piper for top Chinese juniors. Standing 6-foot-5 and ramrod-straight, Watson fixed the 9-year-old with a hard look: “Are you willing to make a huge sacrifice to be the best?” Ye nodded. What started as a once-a-week lesson eventually became a full-time partnership (with Ye and another boy). And the results followed. Ye won the San Diego Junior Masters in 2010 and then repeated the feat in 2011. “You could see already,” Watson says, “that he was bred to play this game.”
中国家庭或许有能力为高尔夫神童创造完美的培养环境：纪律、专注、勤奋、毫不动摇的支持。但打造世界级高尔夫球手需要更深的专业知识，这是叶的本地中国教练无法提供的。在2010年一项少年赛事上，有人把大卫·沃特森(David Watson)介绍给叶和他的父亲，他是一位资深英国巡回赛教练，吸引着中国少年选手们趋之若鹜。沃特森6英尺5英寸高（约1米9——译注），身材像球杆一样笔挺，他严厉地望着这个9岁的孩子：“为了成为最好，你愿意付出巨大的牺牲吗？”叶点了点头。之后沃特森开始每周给他上课一次，再后来就成了叶的全职教练（同时还教另一名男孩）。接着就有了回报。2010年，叶获得了圣地亚哥少年大师赛冠军，2011年又蝉联冠军。“你已经可以看出他是为这项运动而生的，”沃特森说。
The outside world noticed, too. When I followed Ye during the first round at the China Open in May, the 12-year-old — dressed in an orange and lavender Nike ensemble — had an extra member in his entourage. Besides Watson, who was carrying his bag, the gallery included his mother and father — and a young Nike representative. According to Ye’s father, Nike has been sending Ye a steady supply of free golf clothes and clubs since he was 9. (This is a common practice; signed endorsement deals would disqualify players from many junior and amateur events — not to mention American college teams.) Nike has also signed up Watson as part of its worldwide advisory staff, bringing him to the United States for workshops on fitness and training. If Ye ever does become a star, he will most likely be swathed in the swoosh.
世界也注意到了这一点。5月，我在中国公开赛上看着叶打第一回合，12岁的他穿着橘红色和淡紫色的耐克衫，他的随行人员中有一位特殊的成员。除了帮他背包的沃特森和他的父母，还有一位年轻的耐克代表。叶的父亲说，耐克自从他9岁那年起，就开始赞助他免费的高尔夫球服和球杆（这是一种常见的做法，签署商业广告会令选手失去大部分少年与业余赛事的资格，更不必说加入美国大学校队资格）。耐克还与沃特森签约，让他作为品牌的全球顾问到美国工作室参与健身和训练。如果叶成了明星，他将来肯定会被耐克的钩子商标所包围。
And draped in China’s national flag. Ye has not only been selected for the national junior team, a squad that will prepare for the 2020 Olympics, but the state also pays part of Watson’s annual salary. So here, in a way, is a new Chinese model for creating a golf star: a convergence of political, commercial and family interests, all with different motives, serving a single goal — to turn a 12-year-old boy into the best golfer in the world.
当然，中国国旗也会披在他的身上。叶还没有入选为2020年奥运会做准备的国家少年队，但国家已经开始支付沃特森一部分的年薪。所以，这是一种培养高尔夫明星的中国新模式：政治、商业与家庭兴趣的集合，每种力量都有不同的动机，但目的只有一个——让这个12岁的男孩成为世界上最好的高尔夫球手。
In every industry that China has built from scratch over the past three decades — from cars to computers — the country has relied initially on a heavy injection of foreign expertise. In the auto industry, the transfer of technology came from engineers and designers; for golf, it comes from the foreign teaching pros (not to mention course designers) who have flocked to China.
在过去的30年里，从汽车到电脑，中国每一个从零开始的行业最初都是从引进外国技术开始的。在汽车工业，技术引进是从引进工程师和设计师开始；在高尔夫球行业，是从引进外国教练开始（当然还有场地设计师），他们大批赶到中国。
Fifteen years ago there were few full-time foreign pros living in China. Today there are a few hundred, both Western and Asian, and they can command fees higher than they could get in the United States — between $100 and $250 an hour. One pro in Shenzhen charges $500 an hour and still has no shortage of students. Before a tournament in June, the parents of a 12-year-old girl flew her to Shenzhen for a series of 10 lessons with this pro — $5,000, plus travel costs — before flying to the tournament venue. (She still lost.)
15年前，中国几乎没有全职外国教练，如今已经有几百人之多，既有西方人也有亚洲人，他们可以收取比在美国高的费用，每小时100美元到250美元不等。深圳的一个教练收费500美元一小时，学生仍然络绎不绝地上门。6月的巡回赛开赛之前，一个12岁女孩的父母带她飞往深圳，花5000美元上了这位教练的12堂课，然后又坐飞机赶往竞赛场地（最后她仍然输了）。
Foreign pros in China often find themselves in the odd position of pleading with parents to slow down. “They get upset when I say one lesson every two weeks is enough,” says C. K. Tan, the pro at Bayhood No. 9. One of his colleagues puts it more bluntly: “Since Guan, everybody is chasing him down this path. And nobody really knows yet whether it will lead to glory — or the abyss.”
外国教练们发现，在中国他们要经常劝家长们放慢速度，这令他们处于尴尬的位置。“我说两周上一堂课就够了，这令他们感到不安，”北湖9号的教练C·K·谭说。他的一个同事说得更直率：“自从关天朗之后，所有人都在这条路上追逐他。没有人知道这条路通往荣誉还是深渊。”
A few years ago, American golf academies seemed poised to flood the China market. But several famous ones that opened branches in China — run by golf luminaries like David Leadbetter and Cindy Reid — have closed, often after disagreements with local partners. It’s a pattern any foreigner doing business in China would recognize: Chinese firms tend to nudge out their foreign partners once the technology has been transferred and the local company has built up its own strength and know-how.
几年前，美国高尔夫球学校对中国市场大潮还颇有信心。但是有几个著名教练在中国开办的分校相继关闭了——诸如高尔夫名人大卫·利德贝特(David Leadbetter)和辛迪瑞(Cindy Reid)，通常是因为他们和本地父母们意见相左。外国人在中国做生意通常都是这种模式：中国工厂一旦掌握技术，本地公司一旦建立起自己的实力和知名度，就会把外国合作伙伴推出去。
The Chinese academies still rely on foreign pros, though, because clients demand them. Dan Webb, for example, now runs a multistory driving range — “a golf factory,” he calls it — at the Sand River Golf Club in Shenzhen. Besides hiring 10 foreign pros, Webb is bringing in two Dutch psychologists to start a program focused on the mental aspects of the game, analyzing frontal-lobe activity as students hit. His idea, he says, is to “create a Shaolin temple for golf” where students train with the discipline of warrior monks. His Chinese boss has bigger ambitions: He wants Webb to open 50 golf academies in China over the next three years.
但中国高尔夫球学校仍然依赖外国教练，因为客户需要他们。比如丹·韦布，他在深圳的沙河高尔夫球俱乐部经营着一个多层挥杆训练场，他把它称为“一个高尔夫工厂”。韦布聘请了10名外国教练，还请来了两个丹麦心理学家，研究运动员的心理状态，分析学员击球时大脑前额叶的活动。他说，他的理想是“创建一座高尔夫球的少林寺”，学员们在这里接受武僧式的训练。他的中国老板野心更大，他希望韦布在未来三年内在中国开办50座高尔夫球学校。
Being Guan’s childhood coach gives Webb extra cachet in China. Since Guan’s success at the Masters, other golf parents have been trying to follow his formula — lessons with a foreign pro, early exposure to international competition and extended stays in America to train and compete. One ripple effect: in the past few months, at least a dozen top Chinese juniors have enrolled in full-time residential golf academies in the United States, some with annual costs above $60,000. And the aspirants keep getting more precocious. In Beijing, I met a 4-year-old boy, Zhu He, whose parents took him to Florida and California in June to check out three prospective golf academies. “Once he’s 5,” his father said, “he’ll be ready to go.”
韦布是关天朗儿时的教练，这在中国给了他特殊的威望。自从关在大师赛上成名后，其他家长也开始学习关的方式——跟外国教练上课，早早参加国际竞赛，长期呆在美国训练和比赛。这带来的影响是，过去几个月里，至少有十几个顶尖中国少年选手报名参加美国专业住宿式高尔夫球学校，有些学校每年学费要6万美元。而且有志于此的人年纪年纪愈来愈小。在北京，我遇到一个4岁的男孩，名叫朱和（音译），6月，父母带他去了佛罗里达和加利福尼亚，考察三座备选的高尔夫球学校。“等他5岁就可以去了，”他的父亲说。
Plenty of children seem to be thriving in this competitive atmosphere. On a practice green in Shenzhen, I met Kuang Yang, an 8-year-old who was dressed like a miniature pro in bright orange pants and saddle shoes. He was goading a friend: “Bet you can’t make that.” Kuang won a tournament by 11 strokes the week before — shooting an astonishing five-under-par 67 in one round — and he likes challenging everyone he meets, even adults. After his friend missed, Kuang curled a long putt into the hole. His parents cheered, and their son looked over, smiling fiendishly. “He loves to win,” his father said, “because it brings him a lot of praise.”
很多孩子似乎渴望这种竞争氛围。在深圳的一处练习场地，我遇到8岁的匡阳（音译），他穿着亮橙色裤子和凉鞋，看上去像个小小的职业选手。他激励一个朋友：“看你能不能做到。”这周早些时候，匡以11杆的优势赢得了一场巡回赛，击出了惊人的一轮比赛67杆低于标准杆5杆的成绩。他乐于向见到的每个人挑战，甚至是成年人。朋友失球后，匡做了个长长的推杆让球进洞。父母为他欢呼，他向这边看着，露出友好的微笑。“他喜欢赢球，”他父亲说，“因为这为他带来很多表扬。”
But then there is the case of Liu Yanwei, a top Chinese amateur I visited in Shenzhen. His father pulled him out of school in Beijing two years ago, at age 13, and sent him 1,300 miles south to live in a hotel suite in Mission Hills — not to enroll him in a golf academy but essentially to build one around him. Along with an Australian teaching pro who flies in 10 days every month, his father — a wealthy industrialist — hired a young American pro to practice with his son; a full-time fitness trainer to give him two-a-day workouts; and two employees to serve as the boy’s ever-present minders, because his parents still live in Beijing. On the practice green before a round, I asked Liu if his father ever gave him a day off. “Nope,” he said, flashing a grin. “Only work.” Over the one holiday even factory workers take off — Chinese New Year — Liu’s father visits for two weeks, evaluating his son’s progress. Instead of vacation time, Liu said, “that is my jail time.”
但也有刘彦伟（音译）这样的例子，他是我在深圳采访的一位顶尖业余选手。两年前，他13岁时，父亲让他从北京的学校退学，把他送到1300英里之外的南方，生活在观澜湖的一个宾馆套间里。父亲没有把他送进高尔夫球学校，而是在他周围打造了一个“学校”。一位澳大利亚教练每月有10天坐飞机过来指导他，这位富裕的工业家父亲还雇了一个年轻的美国教练当儿子的陪练、一个全职健身教练，每天指导他健身两次；还有两个雇员随身照顾这个男孩，因为父母仍在北京生活。在训练绿地上，一轮比赛开始之前，我问刘，父亲会不会让他放假，“从不，”他笑着说，“只有工作。”每当工厂工人都会放假的春节，刘的父亲会来深圳呆两个星期，评估儿子的进展。这不但不像假期，刘说：“对我来说就像坐牢。”
Golf has had its share of prodigies who have failed to realize their early promise, like the young American Michelle Wie. Burnout and injury are dangers for any athlete who trains unrelentingly from an early age, especially if they are trying to live their parents’ dream. “It’s not easy when kids are extrinsically motivated by a parent,” says Tom Jackson, president of the Core Golf Academy in Orlando, Fla., which has 51 students from all over the world, including China. “They’ll reach a point where they say: ‘I don’t want this. This was always your dream, not mine.’ ”
高尔夫运动中不乏没能充分实现自己早期潜力的神童，比如年轻的美国人米歇尔·韦伊(Michelle Wie)。过度疲劳和受伤是任何早期就承受大量训练的运动员都要面对的风险，特别是在父母借他们实现自己梦想的情况下。“子女心不甘情不愿地受父母驱使，这对他们来说并不轻松，”佛罗里达州奥兰多市科尔高尔夫学校的汤姆·杰克逊(Tom Jackson)说，学校里有51个来自世界各地的学生，也包括来自中国的学生。“到达某个阶段，他们就会说：‘我不想要这个。这一直都是你的梦想，不是我的。’”
Xie Chengfeng couldn’t stop laughing. It was the first evening of a junior tournament in the southern Chinese enclave of Nansha — Xie’s sixth competition in barely a month — and the boy was racing down the clubhouse stairs with a raucous posse of 8-year-olds. The tournament sponsors, the Florida-based Core Golf Academy, had just held a buffet dinner for all 85 contestants. Parents were expressly not invited. In the joyous mayhem, I realized one reason Xie loved tournaments so much: They offered rare moments like these in which he could truly play with other kids. At home, following his solitary regimen, away from school, Xie led an isolated existence. This was a welcome release.
谢乘风笑个不停。他来到中国南方岛屿南沙参加一次少年巡回赛，这是他一个月内第六次参加比赛。开赛后的第一个晚上，谢和一群吵闹的8岁孩子们一起从俱乐部的楼梯冲下来。巡回赛的赞助者，佛罗里达的科尔高尔夫球学校刚刚为85名参赛者举办了自助餐晚宴。特意没有邀请父母们。在这个欢乐的混乱场合里，我发现了谢为什么这么喜欢比赛：它们提供这样的少有时刻，让他可以真正和其他孩子们一起玩耍。在家里他要独自训练，也不去上学，过着孤独的生活。此时是个很好的放松机会。
The next morning, it was back to business. At 6:45, dressed in his all-pink ensemble, Xie was hitting balls on the driving range with his father close behind him. Long rows of juniors and their parents flanked them on either side. None of the kids were talking or laughing anymore. At the far end of the range, in checkered pants and an orange Nike shirt, the tournament’s marquee player, Ye Wocheng, rifled drives into the morning air. Ye’s coach, David Watson, softly repeated swing pointers, while his parents watched silently. This tournament, which the Core Academy put together as a way of recruiting Chinese students, would serve as a tuneup for Ye before a series of international junior tournaments in the U.S. But his father, like Xie’s, was also curious about Core, which boasts one of Tiger Woods’s coaches, Sean Foley.
第二天早上，一切回到正轨。上午6点45分，谢穿着粉红色比赛服在发球场上击球，父亲站在他身边，长长的几排小选手和父母们站在他们两旁。孩子们不再说笑。赛场尽头站着比赛的著名选手，身穿格子裤和橘红色耐克上衣的叶沃诚，在清晨的空气里匆匆发球。叶的教练大卫·沃特森轻声重复着挥杆要点，他的父母静静地看着。这个巡回赛是科尔学校为招募中国学生而组织的，也是叶在赴美参加一系列国际少年巡回赛前的调整。但叶的父亲和谢一样，对科尔学校很好奇，它声称拥有老虎伍兹的教练之一：肖恩·弗利(Sean Foley)。
It has been a heady time for Ye. Since his debut in the China Open, he has received queries from two PGA Tour caddies looking to be hired, one sports agent and two European tour events. (He has declined their approaches.) In late May, I sat with the 12-year-old in a clubhouse bar watching the Golf Channel, when suddenly his own face appeared on the television in a special broadcast about his experiences. Ye kept staring at the monitor, his mouth half-open in a disbelieving smile. “It’s a weird feeling,” he said.
这对于叶来说是个很方便的时间。自从在中国公开赛亮相以来，他已收到两个PGA巡回赛球童的申请，希望被他雇佣，此外还有一个体育代理机构的申请和两项欧洲巡回赛事的邀请（他已经全部拒绝）。5月底，我和这个12岁的男孩一起在俱乐部酒吧看电视里的高尔夫频道。突然他的面孔出现在电视上，是一个关于他的特别报道节目。叶一直盯着电视，嘴半张着，露出一个不敢置信的笑容。“真是奇怪的感觉，”他说。
In the past couple of months Ye has won three junior tournaments in a row by coming from behind with late charges, building a reputation as a closer. Watson now has another goal for him: to win every junior tournament by at least 10 strokes. At the two-day Core event, Ye was tied for the lead after the first day with a 15-year-old boy, Xue Han, who trains full time at a small academy in Florida, where 11 of the 15 students are Chinese. On the final day, Ye pulled away, posting birdies on the final three holes to finish with a four-under-par 68. He won by eight strokes. “Still two shots off,” Watson told him, only half-joking.
过去的两个月里，叶一口气赢得了三项少年巡回赛，因为参赛较晚，还付了相关费用，他建立起了比赛终结者的名声。沃特森现在为他制定了另一个目标：每个少年巡回赛赛事要赢得至少10杆。在科尔主办的这项为期两天的比赛上，第一天，叶保持领先，紧随其后的是15岁的薛寒（音译），他在佛罗里达一个小学校里接受专业训练，学校里有11到15个中国学生。最后一天，叶远远甩开了其他人，在最后三洞取得了低于标准杆一杆的成绩，总成绩是68杆低于标准杆4杆。他以8杆的优势获胜。“还是差两杆，”沃特森半开玩笑地说。
Ye’s father understands the need to pace his son for the long haul. “The road from juniors to pros is a marathon, not a sprint,” he told me. Even so, don’t expect Ye to take any days off soon. His goal now, it seems, is to break every record Guan has set. Becoming the youngest golfer ever to play in a tour event was one milestone. Winning more international junior championships is another. His next big target: Augusta. To qualify for the Masters, Ye would need to win this fall’s Asia-Pacific Amateur, as Guan did last year. It will be a rare opportunity to go head to head against Guan, even if his older rival, coming off five PGA Tour events in the United States, would still be considered the heavy favorite.
叶的父亲理解要调整儿子的步调，为长期做打算。“从少年选手到职业选手的道路是一场马拉松，不是短跑冲刺，”他说。尽管如此，也别指望叶能马上休息。如今他的目标似乎是打破所有关天朗保持的纪录。成为巡回赛上最年轻的高尔夫球手是一座里程碑，赢得更多国际少年赛事的冠军又是一座里程碑，他的下一个目标是奥古斯特赛场。为了获得大师赛资格，叶需要在这个秋天拿下亚太业余选手赛，关天朗在去年已经做到了。这是一个可以直接与关竞赛的珍贵机会，年长一些的关已经在美国参加过5次PGA赛事，被认为更有胜算。
Out on the golf course, I spotted Xie on the sixth fairway. He was hard to miss: a large boy in pink, a full head taller than his playing partners, moaning loudly after an approach shot had gone astray. Coming off the green, Xie screwed up his face and shook his head: “Oh, I’m playing very badly.” He finished in third place, and his father gently consoled him afterward.
我站在赛场之外，看见谢乘风在第6赛道。他很醒目，一个穿粉红色衣服的高个子男孩，比周围的对手都要高一头，一个球打偏了，他发出大声的悲叹。离开果岭，谢满脸担忧，摇着头说：“我打得真差。”最后他获得第三名，父亲轻轻地安慰了他。
When I spoke to Xie’s father, he seemed in a reflective mood. “My thinking has changed a lot since we started,” he said, as his son played a game on his iPad. “Kids who start early have an advantage in golf, but it’s a long road to the top,” he said. “I don’t want to push him too hard. I want to make sure he keeps doing this because it’s fun and he’s interested, not just because I’d like him to be the next Tiger Woods.” Xie looked up from his iPad. “I don’t know about Tiger anymore, Dad,” he said. “He’s so up and down these days: great one week, terrible the next.”
和谢的父亲交谈时，他似乎正在反思。“我的想法和一开始相比改变了很多，”他说，这时儿子正在用他的iPad玩游戏。“孩子早早开始打高尔夫球会有优势，但通往顶峰有很长一段路要走，”他说，“我不想把他逼得太紧。我希望他坚持打球是因为打球有意思，而且他也感兴趣，不是因为我希望他成为下一个老虎伍兹。”谢抬起头来说：“我都快不认识老虎了，爸爸。他最近起伏太大，一星期打得好，一星期打得差。”
The family’s ultimate ambition hasn’t changed. Xie will not suddenly be enrolling in primary school. He will continue his training regimen, his daily drive to the clubhouse in his electric car. Xie’s father took a Core Academy brochure — just in case — and loaded his son’s clubs in the trunk of the Lexus for the drive back to Mission Hills. They needed to get home early and rest for tomorrow. It was a school day for most kids, but for Xie, it would be another day of toil in the hothouse of junior golf in China.
这家人最终的雄心依然没有改变。谢是不会某天就突然回去上小学的。他会继续自己的训练计划，每天仍会开着电动车去俱乐部。谢的父亲拿了科尔学校的宣传手册——只是备用——他把儿子的球杆放进雷克萨斯轿车的后备箱，准备开回观澜湖。他们得早点回家，好好休息，迎接明天。翌日，大多数孩子都要去上学，但谢仍要在中国少年高尔夫球的竞技场里艰苦训练。