In the less than two weeks since its premiere in China, Paramount Pictures’ ‘‘Transformers: Age of Extinction’’ has hurtled to the top of the country’s box-office records, surpassing ‘‘Avatar,’’ according to the Chinese movie website Mtime.
据中国电影网站时光网说，派拉蒙影业(Paramount Pictures)的《变形金刚4：绝迹重生》(Transformers: Age of Extinction)在中国上映不到两周就打破了票房记录，超过了《阿凡达》(Avatar)。截至周日，该片在中国共赚得2.23多亿美元。该片在中国取得了巨大成功，而在美国，第二个周末的表现有点弱。本片由迈克尔·贝(Michael Bay)导演，是关于外星机器人的系列大片的第四部。
The runaway success in China for the film, which had grossed more than $223 million as of Sunday, comes amid reports of a somewhat weaker second-weekend performance in the United States. The movie, directed by Michael Bay, is the fourth installment in the franchise about alien robots.
据时光网说，截至7月4日美国国庆节周末结束，该片在美国共赚得1.74多亿美元。6月27日在中国和美国同时首映的那个周末，两国的票房收入差不多一样。
By the end of the July 4 holiday weekend, the movie had brought in more than $174 million in the United States, according to Mtime, after having taken in almost equal box-office receipts in both China and the United States in the first weekend after its simultaneous premiere on June 27.Zhang Hongsen, the head of China’s Film Bureau, last month exhorted cinema owners not to abandon a Chinese-made film, ‘‘The Breakup Guru,’’ in favor of ‘‘Transformers.’’ But “Guru” had pulled in only $65.9 million as of Sunday, less than a third of the ‘‘Transformers’’ take in the country.
中国新闻出版广电总局电影局局长张宏森上个月劝诫院线老板们不要抛弃中国电影《分手大师》，一味偏爱《变形金刚》。但是《分手大师》截至周日仅赚得6590万美元，不到《变形金刚》在该国票房收入的三分之一。
While ‘‘Transformers’’ was all but guaranteed a certain measure of success in China given the immense popularity of the franchise in the country, its record-breaking success will most likely be seen as further validation of Paramount’s stepped-up outreach to Chinese audiences.
虽然《变形金刚》几乎一定会在中国取得成功，因为这个系列在中国特别受欢迎，但是它成功打破记录最可能被看做是派拉蒙影业加速靠近中国观众的努力取得了成效。
For its latest film, the studio adopted a collaborative production strategy that included a partnership with China Movie Channel, a Chinese production company, as well as filming in mainland China and Hong Kong. Significant roles to were given to Chinese actors such as Li Bingbing.
该公司在拍摄最后一部时采取合拍模式，与中国制片公司中国电影频道合作，而且在中国内地和香港拍摄。还给中国演员分配了一些值得注意的角色，比如李冰冰。
‘‘The speed with which the Chinese audiences have embraced ‘Transformers 4’ has been a wonderful surprise,’’ said Marc Ganis, co-founder of the United States-based Jiaflix Enterprises, a joint-venture partner with China Movie Channel and one of the production and marketing partners for the film.
“中国观众欢迎《变形金刚4》的速度是个巨大的惊喜，”美国Jiaflix Enterprises公司的联合创始人马克·加尼斯(Marc Ganis)说。该公司是中国电影频道的合资伙伴，是该片的制片和市场推广伙伴之一。
For Hollywood studios, the film’s impressive performance in China is a tantalizing display of the country’s potential for fast growth. China has become the world’s second-biggest film market, behind the United States.
对好莱坞电影公司来说，该片在中国的优异表现是该国快速增长潜力的诱人展现。中国已成为仅次于美国的全球第二大电影市场。
In the seven years since the first ‘‘Transformers’’ was shown, the number of commercial movie screens in China has increased fivefold, according to Mtime.
据时光网说，从第一部《变形金刚》在中国上映七年来，商业性电影银幕的数量已经翻了五倍。
Even compared with four years ago, when James Cameron’s ‘‘Avatar’’ was released — smashing domestic box office records at the time with earnings topping $222 million, according to Mtime — the film market in China has entered a ‘‘different era,’’ Mr. Ganis said.
据时光网说，四年前詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)的《阿凡达》在中国上映时赚了2.222亿美元，打破了国内票房记录。加尼斯说，即使与四年前相比，中国的电影市场也进入了一个“不同的时代”。
While there are more screens in China, there is also ‘‘way more competition,’’ he said, referring to the Chinese government’s decision in 2012 to increase the yearly limit on imported films to 34 from 20.
他说，虽然中国的银幕数量增加了，但是“竞争也更激烈了”，他指的是中国政府2012年决定把每年进口电影的限额从20个增加到34个。