HONG KONG — The woman credited with creating the so-called burkini said the controversy over efforts to ban the full-body bathing suit worn by some Muslim women has helped bolster demand for her invention, which she said was not meant to be a political statement.
香港——被认为发明了所谓“布基尼”的女子说，与试图禁止这种一些穆斯林妇女穿的全身泳衣有关的争论，也已帮助增加了对其发明的需求，她说，布基尼本来并不是一个政治声明。
Aheda Zanetti, the Lebanese-Australian inventor of the swimsuit, said officials in more than a dozen French beach towns seeking to prevent women from covering up have misconstrued the purpose of the bathing suit.
泳装发明者、黎巴嫩裔澳大利亚人阿海达·萨内蒂(Aheda Zanetti)表示，法国十几个海滩小镇的官员试图阻止妇女遮盖全身的做法，误解了这种泳衣的目的。
“They’ve misunderstood the burkini swimsuit,” Ms. Zanetti, 49, said in a telephone interview from Sydney. “Because the burkini swimsuit is freedom and happiness and lifestyle changes — you can’t take that away from a Muslim, or any other woman, that chooses to wear it.”
“他们误解了布基尼泳衣，”49岁的萨内蒂在悉尼接受电话采访时说。“因为布基尼泳衣代表自由、幸福和生活方式的变化，你不能从选择穿它的穆斯林或任何其他女性那里把它夺走。”
Ms. Zanetti said she designed the garment in 2004 for women who wanted to show less skin while bathing or exercising.
萨内蒂说，2004年，自己为那些不想在游泳或锻炼时暴露很多皮肤的妇女设计了这种服装。
“I wanted to introduce a full range of clothing to suit a Muslim woman — or any woman — that wanted a bit of modesty and wanted to participate in any sporting activities,” said Ms. Zanetti, who is a Muslim and wears her own swimwear products. “It was also my aim for them not to be judged for who they are, or where they’re from, and who people think they’re representing.”
“我希望推出满足穆斯林女性、或任何女性需求的全套服装，这些服装是为那些在参加体育活动时想保留一点端庄的人设计的，”萨内蒂说，她是一名穆斯林，她穿自己设计的泳装产品。“我的目的也是让她们不因为她们的身份、或她们来自哪个国家，以及人们认为她们代表什么而被品头品足。”
A fashion designer and former hairdresser, Ms. Zanetti coined the name “burkini,” a blend of the words burqa and bikini, but said that the swimsuit was not intended to exclude non-Muslims and was not meant to be a political statement.
现为时装设计师、曾经当过美发师的萨内蒂创造了“布基尼”这个名字，它是布卡(burqa)和比基尼(bikini)的组合，但她说，泳衣并不把非穆斯林排除在外，也没有想成为一个政治声明。
The French “burkini” bans, and the news reports about the ensuing debate, have been good for business, she said, with online sales rising about 200 percent in recent days. Most demand is coming from Australia, Europe and Canada, she said, and some new customers include skin-cancer patients who are looking for ways to shield their skin from the sun.
她说，法国的“布基尼”禁令，以及对随之而来的辩论的新闻报道，对她的商业有好处，最近几天网上的销售量上升了约200％。她说，大部分需求来自澳大利亚、欧洲和加拿大，新客户中有些是皮肤癌患者，他们在寻找不让皮肤暴露在太阳光下的方法。
Ms. Zanetti said that her company, Ahiida, has sold 700,000 swimsuits since 2008. The company sells its products in stores in Australia, Europe, the Middle East, the United States and Southeast Asia.
萨内蒂说，自2008年以来，她的公司Ahiida已经售出了70万件泳衣。公司在澳大利亚、欧洲、中东、美国及东南亚地区的商店销售产品。
Ms. Zanetti, who moved to Australia from Lebanon as a 2-year-old, said that she did not feel comfortable wearing traditional swimsuits as a young girl. She and her friends would sometimes swim in full clothing, she said, but they did not linger in the water because they were embarrassed.
萨内蒂二岁时从黎巴嫩移民澳大利亚，她说她小的时候不喜欢穿传统的泳衣。她说，她和她的朋友们有时会穿着平时的衣服游泳，但她们在水里待的时间不长，因为她们害羞。
Years later, she said, her teenage niece wanted to play netball, a game similar to basketball that is played mostly by women, but was prohibited by her local Sydney league from playing while wearing a hijab. Ms. Zanetti said her sister wrote a letter of complaint to league officials, who reversed their decision.
她说，好多年后，她的一个十几岁的侄女想打投球，那是一种主要是女性参与的类似于篮球的运动，但因为她戴着哈吉布打球，悉尼当地的球赛联盟曾禁止她参赛。萨内蒂说，她姐姐给赛联官员写信抗议，赛联推翻了其决定。
Even so, Ms. Zanetti said that her niece’s hijab was “completely unsuitable” for athletics.
萨内蒂说，尽管如此，她侄女戴的哈吉布对运动员“完全不合适”。
Ms. Zanetti said she designed the “burkini,” which covers everything except the face, hands and feet, so that women like her niece could cover and still participate comfortably in sport. She also created the hijood — headwear attached to the “burkini,” to look like the hood of a sweatshirt.
萨内蒂说，她设计的“布基尼”让像她侄女那样的女性可以遮盖全身，同时仍能舒服地参加运动，布基尼遮盖了脸、手和脚以外的身体所有部分。她还发明了一个叫“哈吉帽”(hijood)的东西，这种帽子可以像运动衫的兜帽那样，附加在“布基尼”上。
Ms. Zanetti said that her four children, who once “rolled their eyes” over her swimwear innovations, have recently become more interested as they follow the news from France.
萨内蒂说，她的四个孩子曾经对她的泳装创新“不以为然”，最近因为注意到来自法国的新闻，他们对泳装有了更大的兴趣。
She said that her children have noticed “that I have a strong voice on behalf of women, for freedom of choice, ” she said. “I can feel how proud they are, more than they’ve ever been.”
她说她的孩子们已注意到，“我有代表女性、代表选择的自由发出的强大声音，”她说。“我能感觉到他们是多么地自豪，比他们以往任何时候都自豪。”