The Third Reich was not only a totalitarian state but also a total multimedia regime. Seven decades after its fiery collapse, the embers remain — including some 1,200 feature films produced under Joseph Goebbels’s ministry of propaganda. Are they historical evidence, incitements to murder, fascist pornography, evergreen entertainments, toxic waste or passé kitsch? All of the above?
德意志第三帝国不仅是一个极权国家，还是一个善用多媒体的政权。七十年前，政权轰然倒塌，七十年后，余烬在现世中还存有踪影——其中包括约瑟夫·戈培尔(Joseph Goebbels)率领的纳粹宣传部制作的约1200部故事片。这些影片是历史的证据，还是煽动谋杀的工具？是法西斯主义的色情片，还是尚有活力的娱乐品？是具有毒性的废物，还是过时的三俗制造？或者以上这些全部？
Those questions are raised by “Forbidden Films: The Hidden Legacy of Nazi Film,” a documentary essay by the German filmmaker Felix Moeller, opening May 13 at Film Forum for a weeklong, free-admission run.
德国导演菲利克斯·穆勒(Felix Moeller)的论说文式纪录片《禁片：纳粹电影的隐秘遗存》(Forbidden Films: The Hidden Legacy of Nazi Film)提出了这些问题。该片于5月13日在纽约“电影论坛”剧院(Film Forum)放映，持续一周，免费入场。
Mr. Moeller, born 20 years after Germany’s defeat, is concerned about what he sees as youthful disinterest in the Nazi period and the concurrent rise of right-wing nationalism in Europe. He arrived at “Forbidden Films,” he said by telephone from Berlin, after making “Harlan: In the Shadow of Jew Süss,” a documentary about the family legacy of Nazi Germany’s most celebrated director, Veit Harlan. Harlan’s most notorious film, “Jew Süss” (1940) — a period melodrama in which a Jewish moneylender connives to take control of the duchy of Württemberg — is as incontrovertibly anti-Semitic as it was enormously popular.
穆勒生于德国战败20年后，令他担忧的是，现在的年轻人对纳粹历史漠不关心，同时右翼民族主义在欧洲崛起。他在柏林接受电话采访说，筹备《禁片》前，他制作了纪录片《哈兰：在<犹太人苏斯>的阴影里》(Harlan: In the Shadow of Jew Süss)，这是一部围绕纳粹德国知名导演威特·哈兰(Veit Harlan)的纪录片，讲述了哈兰的家族遗产。哈兰最为臭名昭著的影片是1940年的《犹太人苏斯》(Jew Süss)。这是一部情节夸张的电影，具有那个时期的典型特征。剧中，一位犹太裔放贷者密谋占领公爵的领地符腾堡。影片在当时备受欢迎，反犹程度之深可见一斑。
According to the film historian Eric Rentschler, author of “The Ministry of Illusion,” an analysis of Nazi cinema, Goebbels’s productions used entertainment to reinforce the status quo. The hard-core propaganda films that followed Hitler’s rise to power in 1933 and the outbreak of World War II “constituted a very small portion of the era’s features,” Mr. Rentschler has written. Nazi propaganda was often deliberately entertaining and, in any case, entertainment films were scarcely immune to ideology. “You can’t separate the political films from the unpolitical ones,” Mr. Rentschler said in a phone interview from Cambridge, Mass. “They were all part of a functioning system.”
曾著有分析纳粹电影产业著作《幻想部》(The Ministry of Illusion)的电影历史学家艾瑞克·伦奇勒(Eric Rentschler)说，戈培尔的电影产品是以娱乐的形式巩固既有秩序。1933年希特勒上台及第二次世界大战爆发后产生的纯宣传性影片“只占这一时期电影的很小一部分”，伦奇勒写道。纳粹宣传经常故意表现出娱乐特征，可是无论什么时候，娱乐电影都几乎不可能免于意识形态。“你无法把政治电影从不政治的电影中分离出来。”身在马萨诸塞州剑桥的伦奇勒在电话采访中说道。“它们都在这个发挥功用的系统里运转。”
Around 300 German movies were banned by American occupation forces. In the 1950s, the role of clearing old movies for public screenings was ceded to local authorities, in particular the government-sponsored F. W. Murnau Foundation, which holds the rights to most German movies made before 1945.
约300部德国电影曾被美军列入禁片。1950年代，把旧时期的电影从公开放映片单中清除的任务落到了德国地方权力机构手中，具体而言，这个机构是政府资助的穆尔瑙基金会(F.W. Murnau Foundation)。该基金会掌握着1945年前大部分德国电影的版权。
Forty-four of the Murnau Foundation’s films, as well as others held by the German Federal Archives, remain prohibited there and can be shown only under special circumstances, which include the presence of an expert to furnish context. In addition to well-known propagandist works like the Nazi martyrdom film “Hitler Youth Quex” (1933), Leni Riefenstahl’s staged documentary “Triumph of the Will” (1935) and “Jew Süss,” forbidden films include the virulently anti-British “Uncle Kruger,” the pro-euthanasia melodrama “I Accuse,” and the gung-ho bomber-pilot celebration “Stukas,” all released in 1941.
穆尔瑙基金会的44部影片和德国联邦档案局的其他一些影片直到今天仍未解禁，只在特殊场合播放，并需要专业人士提供放映说明。除了一些为人熟知的宣传电影，如1933年的纳粹殉道片《希特勒少年旗帜引导我们前进》(Hitler Youth Quex)，1935年由莱尼•里芬斯塔尔(Leni Riefenstahl) 制作的《意志的胜利》(Triumph of the Will)、《犹太人苏斯》，被禁影片还包括恶毒反英的《克鲁格叔叔》(Uncle Kruger)，倡导安乐死的情节剧《我控诉》(I Accuse)，赞美轰炸机飞行员的《斯图卡》(Stukas)，后三部影片都发行于1941年。
More reportage than polemic, “Forbidden Films” presents scholars, filmmakers, government officials and former neo-Nazis. Mr. Moeller also documents museum or university screenings of the banned films in Germany, France and Israel, and records a range of responses. Shaken members of the audience are interviewed after emerging from a sold-out showing of “Jew Süss,” a film that, Mr. Moeller said, is presented at least every other week somewhere in Germany. “It makes me ill, because it is so good and it transmits such a horrible message,” one says. Other viewers are stunned by “Homecoming” (1941), a movie designed to justify the German invasion of Poland, in which brutish Poles persecute the nation’s German minority.
纪录片《禁片》给学者、电影人、政府官员、前新纳粹主义者带来的更多的是对事实的展现，而非争论。穆勒记录了德国、法国、以色列的博物馆或大学对这些禁片的放映情况，并收集了观众的反馈。在《犹太人苏斯》一场售票告罄的放映后，被影片震撼的观众接受了采访。穆勒说，在德国，《犹太人苏斯》至少每两周就会在一个地方播放。“我感到有点难受。这个片子拍得不错，可传达的是一个可怕的信息”，一名观众说。让观众震惊的还有1941年的《归乡》(Homecoming)。这是一部为德国侵略波兰行径辩护的片子。片中，波兰人被刻画成残忍的形象，迫害波兰国内的德国少数族裔。
Like “Jew Süss,” in which a devious racist fanatic takes over a “pure” German realm, “Homecoming” embodies the classic propaganda ploy of projecting one’s own crimes on the enemy. Similarly, “Uncle Kruger” credits the British with the invention of concentration camps and “The Rothschilds” (1940), a pseudo-historical movie rife with misinformation, shows Jewish capitalists using disinformation to foment international panic.
如果说《犹太人苏斯》展示了奸诈的种族狂热者如何占领一片“纯”德国领土，而《归乡》讲述了如何把个体罪行扩大到所有敌人的经典宣传策略，相似地，《克鲁格叔叔》为英国打上集中营发明者的标签。1940年的伪历史性影片《罗斯柴尔德家族》(The Rothschilds)运用错误信息，讲了了犹太资本家掩盖事实，煽动国际恐慌的故事。
Not everyone experiences the same movie. While members of an Israeli audience appear unfazed by “The Rothschilds” — regarding it as more dated than dangerous — neo-Nazis consider it a relevant illustration of contemporary globalism. One man exits “Homecoming” pleased, he says, by its exposure of the “merciless way that Poles terrorized minorities.”
不是每个人都会对影片产生同样的感触。以色列观众似乎就没有被《罗斯柴尔德家族》困扰——只是觉得它过时而并没觉得它危险。新纳粹主义者认为电影展示了当代的全球主义。一名观众看完《归乡》很开心，说，这部片子暴露了“波兰人恐吓少数群体的无情”。
Widely distributed in Nazi-occupied Europe, with special screenings for SS units, “Jew Süss” was shown at the 1940 Venice Film Festival, where it was praised for its formal qualities by Michelangelo Antonioni, then a young journalist. The filmmaker Jonas Mekas saw the same movie as a student in Nazi-occupied Lithuania. Recalling the Jewish arch-villain as a sympathetic, even heroic character, he later wrote in The Village Voice that he “could not understand how Germans could allow this film to be shown in occupied territories” and was baffled when Harlan was tried after the war for crimes against humanity.
《犹太人苏斯》曾在纳粹占领的欧洲进行广泛播放，并专门为党卫队放映，1940年，这部片子参加了威尼斯电影节，当时还是个年轻记者的米开朗基罗·安东尼奥尼(Michelangelo Antonioni)还赞赏过它的品质。电影人乔纳斯·梅卡斯(Jonas Mekas)在还是学生的时候，也在纳粹占领的立陶宛看过这部电影。乔纳斯称犹太人大反派具有同情心，甚至是英雄主义式的人物，后来他在《村声》(The Village Voice)中写道，他“不理解为什么德国人会允许这样的影片在占领区播放”，也不明白在这场反人道的罪孽战争之后，为什么哈兰的作品还可以继续得到放映。
The debate over Nazi films is not new. The 1966 rerelease of Harlan’s war spectacle “Kolberg” (1945) in West Germany became an international story. A 1991 New York Times article on the morality of showing the venomous pseudo-documentary “The Eternal Jew” (1940) ended with an American filmmaker warning that as absurdly excessive as it was, the movie “could become a cult film.” It has — described in terms suggesting a “Rocky Horror” for skinheads by a former neo-Nazi who points out in “Forbidden Films” that “banning things makes them fascinating and taboo.” Perhaps, but showing these movies runs the risk of reducing them to camp.
纳粹电影带来争论并不是什么新鲜事了。1966年，西德重映哈兰1945年的战争片《科尔贝格》(Kolberg)在国际上引起了相当大的反应。1991年时报的一篇文章讨论了对1940年邪恶的伪纪录片《永恒的犹太人》(The Eternal Jew)的播放限制。文章结尾，一位美国电影导演用一种相当夸张的警告口吻称它“可能成为一部邪典电影”。的确如此，在《禁片》中出现的一个前新纳粹主义分子称电影中的光头仔具有曾风靡一时的“洛基恐怖”，并称，“禁止一个东西使它更加吸引人，拥有了禁忌之美”。或许吧，可是播放这些影片也面临着让它们再次被封禁的风险。
To complicate matters, the original movies are crumbling (and there are those who believe they should). Mr. Moeller told me that some, like the Gestapo-glorifying thriller “Counterfeiter” (1940), are so deteriorated they could not be used in his documentary. He has joined with other filmmakers in requesting that the Murnau Foundation apply for preservation funds. But not all interest is historical. The director Oskar Roehler, whose luridly fictionalized account of the making of “Jew Süss,” “Jew Süss: Rise and Fall,” was widely criticized on its 2010 release, wondered why he can’t add these movies to his DVD library. The ban makes no sense, when YouTube is an easy source of Nazi propaganda and, Mr. Roehler said, “fringe groups will get their hands on this stuff anyway.”
让事情变得更加复杂的是，这些电影的原片正在损毁（有一些人觉得就应该这样做）。穆勒对我说，一些影片，比如为盖世太保增光添彩的1940年的恐怖片《伪钞制造者》(Counterfeiter)毁坏得非常严重，以致他无法在纪录片中运用。他已经和其他电影人一起请求穆尔瑙基金会申请电影保护基金。可惜不是所有人都对历史感兴趣。导演奥斯卡·罗勒(Oskar Roehler)触目惊心的虚拟化作品《犹太人苏斯：无良的电影》(Jew Süss: Rise and Fall)解释了《犹太人苏斯》的诞生，影片在2010年发行时受到广泛批评。而罗勒好奇为什么不能把这些电影放入他的DVD图书馆里。禁止没有任何意义，YouTube是接触纳粹宣传电影一个很容易的渠道，穆勒说，“极端分子如果想得到这些东西，总会得到的。”
Mr. Moeller gives the last word to the film scholar Rainer Rother, who regards misuse of the films as preferable to sweeping them under the rug. Mr. Rentschler agreed, invoking the Kantian notion of mature political judgment: “If these films are shown publicly, it’s going to generate public discourse.” More cautious, Mr. Moeller would lift the ban on some, like “I Accuse,” but hold off on “Jew Süss” and “Homecoming.” “There’s still quite a bit of poison,” he said.
影片中，穆勒最后展现了电影学者莱纳•罗特(Rainer Rother)的观点。罗特认为对这些电影的不当使用总比把它们掩盖遗忘来得好。穆勒表示同意，并引用了康德关于成熟政治判断的思想：“如果这些电影公开放映，会引起公共讨论。”穆勒更加警惕，觉得可以消除部分电影的禁令，如《我控诉》，但保留对《犹太人苏斯》和《归乡》的禁令。“确实还是有一些毒性在里面的，”他说。
This dilemma is not uniquely German. The founding masterpiece of the American film industry, D. W. Griffith’s “The Birth of a Nation” (1915), is a distorted and white supremacist account of the Civil War and Reconstruction. Like “Jew Süss” and “Homecoming,” Griffith’s film serves as an object lesson in historical falsification and emotional manipulation; released during a period of frequent lynchings, it not only glorified the Ku Klux Klan but also served as a Klan recruiting tool.
这个困境不仅存在于德国。美国电影产业的奠基之作，D·W·格里菲斯(D. W. Griffit)1915年的《一个国家的诞生》(The Birth of a Nation)是一部扭曲的白人至上主义的、关于南北战争和南部重建的解释。和《犹太人苏斯》和《归乡》一样，格里菲斯的电影成为历史上扭曲事实和操纵情绪的反面教材。这部电影发布时，私刑受到滥用，可影片不仅美化了3K党(Ku Klux Klan)，还成为了3K党的招募工具。