Mindfulness meditation, the ancient and flourishing practice that increases awareness of random thoughts and redirects attention to the present moment, has been used to manage stress, depression and even chronic pain. But can it improve test scores?
正念禅修历史悠久，至今盛行不衰。它有助于人们梳理杂乱无章的思绪，并更好地将注意力集中于当下要解决的事务。人们现已借助这种修习活动来管理压力、治疗抑郁症乃至慢性疼痛等。但是，它是否也能提高学生的考试成绩呢？
Researchers in the department of psychological and brain sciences at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who have been studying the relationship between mindfulness and mind-wandering, or the tendency to let our minds drift away on “task-unrelated thoughts,” as it is referred to in academic literature, sought to find out.
美国加州大学圣芭芭拉分校(University of California, Santa Barbara)心理学与脑科学系的研究人员研究了正念禅修与分心走神(mind-wandering)之间的关系，旨在对上述问题一探究竟。
“We had already found that mind-wandering underlies performance on a variety of tests, including working memory capacity and intelligence,” said Michael D. Mrazek, a graduate student working with Jonathan W. Schooler, a professor of psychology at the university who studies the impacts and implications of mind-wandering and mindfulness. The higher the working memory, or an individual’s ability to keep in mind chunks of information and also use them, the better students tend to perform on reading comprehension tests.
该大学的心理学教授乔纳森·W·斯库勒(Jonathan W. Schooler)对走神和禅修的影响和意义进行了探讨。他的合作者，研究生迈克尔·D·姆拉泽克(Michael D. Mrazek)在谈到他们的研究时说道：“我们发现，走神分心可影响人们在工作记忆容量、智力等多种测试中的成绩。”一个人的工作记忆水平（或者说他记忆并运用信息点的能力）越高，他的阅读理解测验成绩往往就越好。
Researchers disagree about the extent to which an individual’s working memory capacity can be enhanced. But in a study published last month in the journal Psychological Science, the Santa Barbara researchers found that after a group of undergraduates went through a two-week intensive mindfulness training program, their mind-wandering decreased and their working memory capacity improved. They also performed better on a reading comprehension test — a section from the Graduate Record Examination, or G.R.E.
关于正念禅修可在何种程度上改善一个人的工作记忆容量，研究人员尚未达成共识。但在上个月发表于《心理科学》杂志 (Psychological Science)上的一项研究中，圣芭芭拉分校的研究人员发现，一组本科生在接受了为期两周的正念禅修强化训练后，走神现象有所减少，工作记忆容量则有所增加。此外，他们在研究生入学考试（Graduate Record Examination, 简称GRE）阅读理解部分中的测验成绩也有所提高。
For the study, the researchers enrolled 48 University of California undergraduates in a study intended, they told them, to improve cognitive performance. Each student was evaluated for working memory capacity, mind-wandering and performance on a G.R.E. reading comprehension section.
在这项研究中，研究人员宣称要进行一项意在改善认知能力的研究，招募了48名就读于加州大学的本科生，并在工作记忆容量、走神分心程度以及GRE阅读理解部分的成绩等方面对他们分别进行了评估。
Then, half the group was randomly assigned to take part in a nutrition program, in which they were educated about healthy eating and asked to keep a daily food diary.
在随后的随机分组之后，其中一半学生参加了营养计划，内容包括学习健康饮食以及记录日常饮食日记等。
The others took a training that resembled the standard mindfulness-based stress reduction program, which typically meets once a week for eight sessions. In the Santa Barbara regimen, students instead met four days a week for two weeks and were not required to devote as much formal practice outside of class.
其余的学生们则接受了与标准正念减压计划相类似的训练。只是圣芭芭拉分校的训练方案将标准方案的每周一次，共计八次改为了每周四天，共计两周，且并不要求学生们在课堂之外也尽量进行正规修习。
But in the main, the class invoked the secular pillars of the practice, including sitting in an upright posture with legs crossed and gaze lowered, breathing exercises and “minimizing the distracting quality of past and future concerns by reframing them as mental projections occurring in the present.”
但大体而言，这些课程已足以奠定正念禅修的基础，包括：盘腿端坐，目光低垂，进行呼吸练习，“重新整理自己对过去和未来的忧虑情绪，并认识到它们只是当下的心理投射，从而尽可能地减少杂念。”
After two weeks, the students were re-evaluated for mind-wandering and working memory capacity and given another version of the G.R.E. reading comprehension section.
两周后，学生们再次接受了分心走神程度和工作记忆容量评估，并通过另一套GRE阅读理解题目进行了测验。
The nutrition group’s results did not change.
营养组的学生成绩没有变化。
The group that took mindfulness training, however, mind-wandered less and performed better on tests of working memory capacity and reading comprehension. For example, before the training, their average G.R.E. verbal score was 460. Two weeks later, it was 520.
然而，正念训练组的学生走神的程度较低，在工作记忆容量和阅读理解测验中的成绩也较好。例如，在为期两周的训练后，他们的GRE语言测验平均得分从460分提高到了520分。
Richard J. Davidson, a professor of psychology and psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who has studied brain function in long-term and novice mindful meditators, offered this analogy: “You can improve the signal-to-noise ratio by reducing the noise. Decreasing mind-wandering is doing just that.”
威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin-Madison)的心理学和精神病学教授理查德·J·戴维森(Richard J. Davidson)研究了正念禅修长期修习者和新近修习者的脑部功能，并通过类比解释道：“你可以通过降低噪声来提高信噪比，而减少走神的作用也正是如此。”
Other professors of cognitive psychology thought the study was well done, although based on a small sample, with results that have yet to be replicated.
其他的认知心理学教授也对该研究给予了很高的评价，但同时也指出，它的样本量较小，且研究结果还有待重复。
“A type of training that can help one avoid susceptibility to worries, or other sources of mind-wandering, very well could improve performance,” said Nelson Cowan, a professor at the University of Missouri who specializes in the study of working memory capacity and attention, in an e-mail message.
密苏里大学(University of Missouri)的教授纳尔逊·考恩(Nelson Cowan)专攻注意和工作记忆容量方面的研究。他在电子邮件中谈到：“如果某种训练可以帮助人们免受忧虑的侵扰或规避其他可导致走神的根源，那么它必将大幅提高工作效能。”
Daniel T. Willingham, a psychology professor at the University of Virginia and author of “When Can You Trust the Experts? How to Tell Good Science From Bad in Education,” said that “when you see these big effects, it may not be that you’ve really fundamentally changed how the mind works. But you have removed a stumbling block that was absorbing them.”
《何时可以信任专家？在教育过程中如何区别“好”科学与“坏”科学》(When Can You Trust the Experts? How to Tell Good Science From Bad in Education)一书的作者，弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)的心理学教授丹尼尔·T·威林厄姆(Daniel T. Willingham)表示：“正念禅修具有这些神奇的效果并不是由于它从根本上改变了你脑部的工作原理，而是因为它协助你清除了那些干扰你集中精力的绊脚石。”
The Santa Barbara researchers have also recently worked with local high school students to see whether the results can be repeated using the SAT. But psychology professors like David Z. Hambrick of Michigan State University questioned how long the effects of a two-week training program would last.
最近，圣芭芭拉分校的研究人员在当地的高中生中进行了类似的研究，以考察在学术能力评估测试(SAT)中能否重现上述研究结果。然而，以密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)的戴维·Z·汉布里克(David Z. Hambrick)为代表的多位心理学教授对两周训练的效果可以持续多久提出了质疑。
Professor Davidson, who has studied Buddhist monks who have practiced meditation for 34,000 hours over the course of their lives, said, “If you have people who are out of shape and then do two weeks of physical exercise, you’ll see some benefit. But if they stop exercising, the benefits won’t persist.”
戴维森教授对终生禅修时间超过34000小时的佛教僧侣们进行了研究。他指出：“如果一个人身材走形，那么他可从两周的体育锻炼中获益良多。但一旦停止锻炼，这些收益也将不复存在。”