Masao Yoshida, a nuclear engineer who took charge of the Fukushima Daiichi power plant two years ago as multiple reactors spiraled out of control after a tsunami, but who ultimately failed to prevent the world’s worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl, died here on Tuesday. He was 58.
前福岛第一核电站站长、核工程师吉田昌郎(Masao Yoshida)于周二在东京去世，享年58岁。两年前他接管核电站，在任时曾负责处理因海啸导致的多个反应堆失控事故，但最终没能阻止自切尔诺贝利事故以来最严重的核灾难。
The cause was cancer, said the Fukushima plant’s operator, Tokyo Electric Power.
福岛电站的运营商东京电力公司(Tokyo Electric Power)称他死于癌症。
Mr. Yoshida had been chief manager at Fukushima Daiichi for just nine months when a 42-foot tsunami inundated the site on March 11, 2011, knocking out vital cooling systems to the plant’s six reactors. Three reactors eventually suffered hydrogen explosions and fuel meltdowns, releasing vast amounts of radioactive matter into the environment.
2011年3月11日福岛第一核电站被42英尺（约合12.8米）高的海啸淹没，对电站六个反应堆的运转至关重要的冷却系统遭到重创，当时吉田担任站长一职只有九个月。其中三个反应堆最终发生氢气爆炸和燃料熔毁，向环境释放了大量放射性物质。
Although the company was widely criticized for its handling of the disaster, which forced more than 100,000 people from their homes, Mr. Yoshida won praise for his effort to minimize the damage.
在这场令超过10万人被迫离开家园的灾难中，东京电力公司的应对遭到广泛的批评，但努力将破坏减至最低限度的吉田赢得了赞誉。
He has been faulted, however, for failing to invest in adequate tsunami walls at the company’s nuclear power plants when he was head of nuclear facilities. Mr. Yoshida later apologized to reporters, saying he had been “too lax” in his assumptions of how big a tsunami might hit the coastal plant.
然而作为电站负责人，他是有过错的，他没有给这个核设施筑起足够强大的海啸墙。吉田后来也曾向记者道歉，说他“太大意”，没有很好地预判这座滨海电站会遭受何等强度的海啸冲击。
Mr. Yoshida took a leave from Tokyo Electric in late 2011 after receiving a diagnosis of esophageal cancer. Experts have said his illness was not a result of radiation exposure from the accident, given how quickly it came on.
2011年底被诊断出食道癌后，吉田离开了东京电力。有专家称，考虑到病发如此之快，他的病患应该不是在事故中遭受核辐射的结果。
Survivors include his wife, Yoko, and three sons.
他的身后留下了妻子洋子（音译）和三个儿子。
When the tsunami hit, Mr. Yoshida took command from inside a fortified bunker at the plant. In video footage of the command room released by Tokyo Electric last year, Mr. Yoshida can be seen at times pushing his workers to hook up water hoses or procure fuel, at times tearfully apologizing to teams he sent out to check on the stricken reactors.
海啸袭来时，吉田在电站的一个加固掩体内指挥工作。东京电力去年公布了指挥室内的录像资料，从中可以看到吉田时而催促他的工人去连接水管或提取燃料，时而流着泪向被他派去检查受损反应堆的人员道歉。
At one point, he ignores orders from Prime Minister Naoto Kan to stop injecting seawater into one of the reactors, a last-ditch measure taken by plant workers to try to cool it.
日本首相菅直人(Naoto Kan)一度下令停止向其中一座反应堆注入海水，吉田未予理会。注入海水是电站工人冷却反应堆的最后手段。
He later offers to lead a “suicide mission” with other older officials to try pumping water into another reactor, but is dissuaded. And as officials warn that core meltdowns have most likely started, he directs men to leave the reactors but stays put in the bunker. Mr. Yoshida later said that the thought of abandoning the plant never occurred to him.
而后他提出由自己带领一些年长的管理人员去执行一项“自杀式任务”，尝试把水注入另一个反应堆，但最终被劝阻。在有管理人员警告炉心很有可能已经开始熔毁后，他下令让众人离开反应堆，但还是留守在掩体内。吉田后来说，他始终就没想过要放弃电站。
“I fear we are in acute danger,” Mr. Yoshida is heard saying in the video shortly after yet another blast rocks the command room. “But let’s calm down a little. Let’s all take a deep breath. Inhale, exhale.”
“我们现在的情况恐怕非常危险了，”在指挥室因又一次的爆炸而剧烈晃动时，吉田在视频中说。“但是我们冷静一下。大家都深呼吸。吸气，呼气。”
Masao Yoshida was born on Feb. 17, 1955, in Osaka, Japan, to a family that ran a small advertising firm. An only child, he spent much of his middle and high school years practicing the Japanese martial art kendo. He went on to study nuclear engineering at the Tokyo Institute of Technology and joined Tokyo Electric after graduate school.
吉田昌郎1955年2月17日生于日本大阪，父母经营着一个小广告公司。作为这个家唯一的孩子，他在初、高中花了不少时间练习剑道。而后他进入东京工业大学(Tokyo Institute of Technology)学习核工程学，研究生毕业后进入东京电力工作。
He worked his way up through the company’s nuclear power division, overseeing its nuclear facilities from 2007 until being appointed chief of Fukushima Daiichi in June 2010. The tsunami that struck the plant was the largest in recent memory. He led the disaster response for eight months before going on sick leave.
他在公司的核电部门一路升迁，2007年开始负责公司的核设施管理工作，直到2010年6月被任命为福岛第一核电站站长。袭击电站的海啸是近年来最大的一次。他领导了八个月的灾后应对工作，直至因病离职。
On his last day at Fukushima Daiichi in December 2011, according to a book on Mr. Yoshida by Kadota Ryusho, he again rallied his troops.
在门田隆将(Kadota Ryusho)的一本关于吉田的书中提到，2011年12月他在离开福岛第一核电站的那天，曾将属下召集到一起。
“You still have a difficult road ahead, but I know you will overcome,” Mr. Yoshida is quoted as saying. “I promise to do my best to return.”
“你们还要面对一条艰难的路，但我知道你们能挺过去，”书中引用吉田的话说。“我一定会尽全力回来的。”