The operator of the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant said Wednesday that it had found a leak in one of the hundreds of steel tanks used to store radioactive water at the plant, raising renewed questions about the company’s ability to handle the plant’s cleanup.
福岛核电站的运营者于本周三表示，公司发现，在这个受损严重的核电站里，用来存储站内放射性污水的数百个钢质水槽当中已有一个发生了泄漏。泄漏事故再度引发了人们对该公司清污能力的质疑。
The discovery comes a day after the operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, admitted that it had found cesium particles in groundwater flowing into the Fukushima Daiichi plant, reversing its earlier assertion that the water was uncontaminated.
此次泄漏被发现的前一日，前述运营者东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）的一名操作人员承认，公司已在流入福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的地下水中发现了铯微粒，这一说法推翻了东电早些时候断言地下水未被污染的声明。
The company stressed that the size of the tank leak was small — the equivalent of about a quart had dripped out so far, it said — and that the level of radioactivity in groundwater was within safe levels. However, the problems are the latest in a string of mistakes and mishaps that have added to mounting criticism of the government’s decision to leave the tricky cleanup in the hands of Tepco, the company that many say allowed the triple meltdown two years ago to happen in the first place.
东电强调，水槽泄漏事故的规模相当小，到目前为止，只有大约1夸脱（约0.95升）的污水流出。公司还说，地下水的放射水平依然处于安全范围之内。然而，这些问题是一连串的错误和灾难中最新的一批，它们加剧了人们对政府逐渐增加的指责，因为政府决定把棘手的清污任务交到东电手中。许多人说，该公司是导致核电站两年前发生三重熔融事故的根本原因。
Recently, Tepco has struggled to deal with tens of millions of gallons of contaminated, toxic water at the plant, which must be stored in the large steel tanks that now occupy virtually every available bit of space there. The amount of radioactive water has continued to grow as groundwater has flowed at a rate of 100,000 gallons per day into the basements of the damaged reactor buildings. This contaminated water must be drawn off every day to prevent it from overwhelming makeshift systems that cool the melted reactors.
最近，东电一直在竭力处理核电站内数千万加仑的有毒污水，这些污水必须被存储在大型钢槽内，现在，钢槽实际上已占据了核电站里每一寸可用的空间。随着地下水以每日10万加仑的速度流入受损核反应堆厂房的地下室，放射性污水的水量还在持续增加。这些污水每天都得进行转移，以防止它们淹没冷却熔毁反应堆的临时系统。
The company has installed a new filtering system that it says removes every type of radioactive particle but one, tritium. Still, that leaves it no choice but to keep storing the water rather than dumping it.
东电安装了一个新的过滤系统，说它能去除除了氚之外的所有放射性微粒。然而，这样的过滤效果还是让东电别无选择，只能继续存储污水，不能把它们倒掉。
Wednesday’s leak underscored the risks of doing so at the plant, where a larger spill might potentially reach the nearby Pacific Ocean. The leaking tank had just been installed to store toxic water from an underground storage pond that needed to be emptied after it, too, sprang a leak.
周三的泄漏突显了在电站存储污水的风险，在这里，规模更大的泄漏可能会直抵不远处的太平洋。发生泄漏的水槽是刚刚安装来储存有毒废水的。这些废水原本被存放在一个地下储水池里，那个水池也发生了泄漏，不得不清空，废水才被转移到了这个水槽里。
Faced with growing public alarm over the water crisis, the government last week ordered Tepco to stop the influx of groundwater by freezing soil around the reactor buildings, a novel plan that calls for creating a wall of underground ice. The company has also planned to reduce the influx by pumping some of the groundwater into the sea before it reaches the buildings and becomes contaminated.
面对民众对水危机越来越高的警惕，政府上周命令东电冻结反应堆建筑附近的泥土，以阻止地下水流入。这是一个新奇的计划，需要公司筑起一堵地下冰墙。东京电力公司还计划在部分地下水抵达反应堆建筑并受到污染之前将其泵到海里，以此减少地下水的流入。
However, the pumping plan needs the approval of residents and commercial fishermen in areas outside the evacuation zone immediately around the plant, who have been slowly regaining their livelihoods since the meltdowns spewed radiation over northeastern Japan. The company had been offering them reassurances that the water to be dumped contained no radioactive particles that could further contaminate the ocean.
然而，泵水计划需要得到紧邻电站周边疏散区的居民和商业渔民的同意。自堆芯熔化使辐射泄漏至整个日本东北部之后，这些人一直在慢慢地恢复生计。东京电力公司一直在向他们保证，要排出的水里不含会进一步污染海洋的放射性粒子。
Those plans could now be jeopardized by Tuesday’s admission that the groundwater in fact does contain cesium, a byproduct of the meltdowns. The company, which conceded that it had erred in previous tests, said it had found up to 0.39 becquerels of radioactive cesium 137 per liter of water, an amount that is far below Japan’s safety level for drinking water of 10 becquerels per liter.
公司员工周二承认地下水里确实含有堆芯熔化的副产品铯，这可能会让前述计划陷入困境。东京电力公司承认之前的检测存在失误，并称在每升水中发现了0.39贝克的放射性铯-137，这一数字远低于日本每升10贝克的饮用水安全标准。
Still, it may be enough to scuttle or at least put on hold the company’s plan to pump groundwater into the sea. Just last week, the company sought to persuade local fishing cooperatives by telling them that levels of cesium in the groundwater were so low that they could not be detected. Those reassurances were met with intense skepticism by fishermen who, even before Tuesday’s admissions, said they no longer trusted any assertions made by Tepco.
尽管如此，这仍有可能破坏东京电力公司把地下水泵到海里的计划，至少也可能会让这个计划暂停。就在上周，该公司还告诉当地的渔业合作社，地下水的铯含量非常低，根本检测不出来，试图以此说服它们。早在东电员工周二承认事实之前，渔民就对这些保证提出了强烈质疑，表示自己不再相信东电的任何断言。