TOKYO — A crisis over contaminated water at Japan’s stricken nuclear plant worsened on Saturday when the plant’s operator said it had detected high radiation levels near storage tanks, a finding that raised the possibility of additional leaks.
东京——严重受损的日本核电站引发的污水危机于上周六加剧，电站运营商在当日表示，他们已在储水罐附近探查到高水平的辐射，这意味着发生其他泄漏的可能性变得更大。
The operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, said it had found the high levels of radiation at four separate spots on the ground, near some of the hundreds of tanks used to store toxic water produced by makeshift efforts to cool the Fukushima Daiichi plant’s three damaged reactors. The highest reading was 1,800 millisieverts per hour, or enough to give a lethal dose in about four hours, Tepco said.
运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）表示，他们已经在地面上的四个不同地点探查到高辐射量，这四个地点位于某些储水罐的附近。这些水罐是数百个存储有毒污水的水罐的一部分，污水来自福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi plant)用于冷却受损反应堆的临时装置。东电说，最高辐射读数达到了每小时1800微西弗，足以在四小时左右的时间里产生足以致命的剂量。
The contaminated spots were found as Tepco employees checked the integrity of the tanks after a leak two weeks ago released 300 tons of toxic water into the Pacific. That leak prompted Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to announce that the government would step in at the plant, which was crippled two years ago by a huge earthquake and tsunami, to help get it under control amid rising public fears of a second environmental disaster.
发现污染点时，东电员工正在检查水罐是否完好，两周之前的一起泄漏事故向太平洋排放了300吨的毒性水。那次泄漏促使日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)宣布，政府将介入核电站事务，在公众对发生二次环境灾难的担忧日益高涨之际，协助控制危机。该核电站在两年前的一次巨大的地震和海啸中，遭到了严重的破坏。
Saturday’s discoveries suggested that there may have been other leaks from the tanks, many of which appear to have been shoddily built as Tepco has scrambled to find enough storage space for the contaminated water being produced by the plant. However, Tepco said that it had found no evidence of fallen water levels in nearby tanks, making it unclear how much water, if any, may have leaked out, and whether any reached the Pacific, about 1,500 feet away.
周六的发现表明，可能有其他的泄漏点。由于东电在为核电站产生的污水寻找足够的存储空间时行动仓促，许多水罐似乎都修建得相当粗糙。不过，东电说，他们没有在附近的水罐发现水位下降的证据，因此，目前还不清楚，假使存在泄漏情况，被泄漏的水量有多少，也不清楚，这些水是否流入了1500英尺（约合457米）以外的太平洋。
About 430,000 tons of contaminated water, or enough to fill 170 Olympic-size pools, are stored in rows of tanks at the plant, which appears to be running out of open space to put them all. The contaminated water increases by 400 tons every day as groundwater flows into the basements of the damaged buildings housing the three ruined reactors, which melted down in the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986.
大约有43万吨的污水被存储在核电站里成排的水罐内，这个水量足以填满170个奥林匹克运动会的标准泳池。目前在核电站里，存储这些污水的空间正在变得越来越稀少。而随着地下水流入受损建筑的地下室内，每天都会增加400吨的污水，这些受损建筑内装有三个破损反应堆，它们在自1986年以来最为严重的核事故中发生了熔融情况。
Tepco must draw off that water to prevent it from overwhelming jury-rigged cooling systems that keep the reactors’ melted cores from reheating and melting into the ground in a phenomenon known as the China syndrome. Tepco has struggled to safely handle and store all the water.
东电必须抽出所有的污水，以免临时拼凑的冷却系统遭到破坏，该系统的作用是避免熔毁的反应堆堆芯再次发热后出现融入地表的现象，该现象被称为“中国综合征”（China syndrome，一部反映核反应堆发生机器故障而导致堆芯熔融事故的电影，后来该电影名被普遍用于指称这种现象——译注）。