Roger Ailes, who shaped the images that helped elect three Republican presidents and then became a dominant, often-intimidating force in U.S. conservative politics at the helm of Fox News until he was forced out in a sexual predation scandal, died Thursday morning in Palm Beach County, Florida. He was 77.
罗杰·艾尔斯(Roger Ailes)曾协助打造形象帮助三位共和党人当上总统，后来成为了美国保守派中一股重要的、常常令人生畏的政治力量——他一直在福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)掌舵，直到因性侵犯丑闻被迫离职。本周四早晨，他在佛罗里达州棕榈滩县去世，享年77岁。
The county Medical Examiner’s Office said in a statement that the cause was complications of a subdural hematoma that Ailes had suffered in a fall at his home in Palm Beach. Hemophilia contributed to his death, the statement said.
该县法医办公室在一份声明中表示，他的死因是硬脑膜下血肿引发的并发症，艾尔斯去年在棕榈滩家中摔倒之后，就出现了硬脑膜下血肿。声明说，他的过世也和血友病有关。
“Fair and balanced” was Ailes’ defining phrase for Fox News, along with another slogan: “We report. You decide.” Though routinely mocked by liberal critics, those words amounted to an article of faith for Ailes, who created Fox News with Rupert Murdoch’s money and guided it for two decades.
“公平而平衡”是艾尔斯给福克斯新闻频道制定的宗旨，他提出的另一个口号是：“我们报道。你决定。”虽然经常遭到自由派批评人士的嘲笑，但这些口号对于艾尔斯来说确实是一种信念，他利用鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的资金创建了福克斯新闻频道，并带领它走过了20年。
“If we look conservative,” he said, “it’s because the other guys are so far to the left.”
“如果我们看起来显得保守，”他说，“那是因为其他人太左了。”
Ailes keenly understood television and its reliance on attention-grabbing flourishes. He learned the medium’s emotional impact in the 1960s as the young producer of “The Mike Douglas Show,” a syndicated daytime variety program.
艾尔斯敏锐地领悟到了电视及其对吸睛元素的依赖。在1960年代，他还是辛迪加日间综艺节目《麦克·道格拉斯秀》(The Mike Douglas Show)的一名年轻制作人的时候，就明白了电视这种媒介对人们感情上的影响。
He put that instinct to effective use after he left the Douglas show in 1968 to devote himself to political stagecraft. He devised media strategies for several dozen political campaigns, including the winning presidential candidacies of Richard M. Nixon in 1968, Ronald Reagan in 1984 and Bush in 1988. In 2016, he informally advised the triumphant Trump campaign.
1968年，他离开《麦克·道格拉斯秀》之后，把这种才华有效地运用在了政治舞台上。他给数十个政治竞选活动设计了媒体策略，包括理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)在1968年、罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)在1984年、布什在1988年赢得的总统竞选。2016年，他还非正式地为特朗普的竞选活动提供了建议。
At Ailes’ Fox, the news was delivered with eye-catching graphics and whooshing sound effects. Female broadcasters tended to be attractive blondes encouraged to show more than a little leg.
在他领导福克斯期间，该台播出新闻时带有醒目的图像和嗖嗖的音效。女主播往往是美貌的金发女郎，而且鼓励她们不仅仅露出一小段腿部。
In January 2002, barely five years after its birth, Fox passed the well-established CNN as the most-watched cable news network. It stayed No. 1, reinforcing Ailes’ political influence.
2002年1月，福克斯诞生5年之后，就超过了老牌的CNN，成为收视最高的有线新闻网络。它保持在第一名位置上，同时也增强了艾尔斯的政治影响力。
In a statement Thursday morning, Murdoch said Ailes “will be remembered by the many people on both sides of the camera that he discovered, nurtured and promoted.”
默多克在周四上午发表的一份声明中说，艾尔斯“会被摄像机两边很多他发现、培养和提拔的人所缅怀。”
“Roger and I shared a big idea, which he executed in a way no one else could have,” he added. “In addition, Roger was a great patriot who never ceased fighting for his beliefs.”
“罗杰和我都有一个很大的想法，他以一种无人能及的方式贯彻了这个想法，”他说。“此外，罗杰也是一位伟大的爱国者，他从未停止过为自己的信仰而战斗。”
Although an Ailes admirer, Murdoch reluctantly concluded in the summer of 2016 that his news chief had to go after a former network anchor, Gretchen Carlson, brought a lawsuit charging Ailes with sexual harassment.
默多克虽然钦佩艾尔斯，但在2016年夏天，福克斯的前主播格雷琴·卡尔森(Gretchen Carlson)向艾尔斯提起了性骚扰诉讼之后，他也只好让这位新闻主管走人。