For vegetarians or pescatarians, the menu in many McDonald’s restaurants across China is suddenly looking very friendly. Gone are the fast-food chain’s signature Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets. Even the beef rice wraps, created specifically to cater to the tastes of the local clientele, are nowhere to be found.
对于素食者或鱼素者（注：不吃肉但是会吃鱼类和海产品的人）来说，在中国的一些麦当劳餐厅里，餐单突然之间显得十分友好：上面没有了这家快餐连锁店出名的巨无霸(Big Macs)和麦乐鸡(Chicken McNuggets)。即便是专为迎合当地食客口味而开发的牛肉麦饭卷，也不见踪迹。
On Tuesday, meat shortages were being reported in many of the more than 2,000 McDonald’s outlets in China, including in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and the northeastern city of Jinan.The only sandwich left on offer in most restaurants? Filet-O-Fish.
中国共有逾2000家麦当劳分店，其中很多在本周二都缺少荤食，包括在北京、上海、广州和东北部城市济南的一些分店。大多数餐厅只剩下一种三明治，它是什么呢？麦香鱼(Filet-O-Fish)。
The disappearance of beef, pork and chicken from the menu in recent days comes after a major meat supplier for the chain issued a recall for its China-made products last week amid a food safety scandal.
最近几天，牛肉、猪肉和鸡肉从餐单上消失了，这是因为上周曝光的一起食品安全丑闻，导致麦当劳的主要肉类供应商召回了其在中国生产的产品。
The controversy erupted early last week after an investigative news report by Shanghai-based Dragon TV showed hidden-camera footage of workers at the meat-processing plant of Shanghai Husi Food Company using meat past its expiration date to make burger patties and Chicken McNuggets. The footage, which also showed workers picking up meat that had fallen on the floor and throwing it back into the processing machine, prompted an investigation, still underway, by the Shanghai Municipal Food and Drug Administration. Five people, including the quality-control manager of Shanghai Husi Food, have been detained by the police.
这场争议是在上周初爆发的，起因是上海的东方卫视播出了一个调查报道。记者用隐藏的摄像机，拍下了在上海福喜食品公司的肉类加工厂里，工作人员用过期肉类制作汉堡肉饼和麦乐鸡，以及工人捡起落到地板上的肉，把它扔回到加工机的画面；看到这些镜头后，上海市食品药品监督管理局开始对此进行调查，目前调查仍在进行中。警方已经拘留五人，其中包括上海福喜食品的质管经理。
“This is my company and events like these have a personal toll,” Sheldon Lavin, chief executive of OSI Group, the Aurora, Ill.-based owner of Shanghai Husi Food, said at a news conference in Shanghai on Monday, according to Reuters. “They simply don’t represent the values I stand for or those of my company.”
“这是我的公司，像这样的事情对我个人来说也是一种打击，”据路透社报道，福喜集团(OSI Group)首席执行官谢尔顿·拉文(Sheldon Lavin)本周一在上海的新闻发布会上表示。“他们根本就不能代表我和我公司的价值观。”福喜集团总部位于伊利诺伊州奥罗拉，是上海福喜食品公司的母公司。
On Saturday, in response to mounting pressure, OSI announced that it had recalled all products made by Shanghai Husi from the market. Before the scandal broke, the company had also supplied other fast-food restaurants in China such as KFC, Burger King, Starbucks and the Papa John’s pizza chain. The company announced on Monday that it was re-organizing its corporate structure to further centralize its China operations and assigning new managers to focus on operations, quality assurance and auditing.
上周六，为了应对越来越大的压力，福喜集团宣布，它已从市场上召回了上海福喜公司的所有产品。在丑闻爆发前，该公司也为中国境内的其他快餐店供货，比如肯德基、汉堡王、星巴克和棒约翰比萨连锁店。该公司本周一宣布，它正在重组企业结构，以便进一步集中管理其在中国的业务，并会指派新的管理人员，把工作重心放在运营、质量管理和稽核上。
A statement posted Monday on the OSI website read: “Overall these actions are the first stage of many required to start rebuilding respect and the trust of our customers, the government, and the public.”
本周一福喜集团在官方网站上发表声明说：“总体来说，这些行动是多个步骤中的第一步，这些步骤旨在重获尊重以及客户、政府和公众对我们的信任。”
Meanwhile, it was a somewhat forlorn scene at lunchtime on Tuesday at a McDonald’s in Beijing. Several employees stood listlessly behind a counter at the normally heavily trafficked restaurant, while a few people drifted in to inquire about the menu. The only available items, said a woman working at the cash register, were Filet-O-Fish sandwiches, hash browns, French fries, apple pie, pineapple pie and a “wide variety of drinks.”
本周二午餐时间，北京一家麦当劳餐厅里的场面有点凄凉。几个员工无精打采地站在通常十分繁忙的柜台后面，只有寥寥数人走进来询问有什么品种供应。一名在收银台前工作的女性说，现在只有麦香鱼三明治、薯饼、薯条、苹果派、菠萝派和“各种饮料”。