NARAHA, Japan — “Out of work? Nowhere to live? Nowhere to go? Nothing to eat?” the online ad reads. “Come to Fukushima.”
日本楢叶町——“没工作了？无处栖身了？没地方去了？没饭吃了？来福岛吧。”网络广告如是说。
That grim posting targeting the destitute, by a company seeking laborers for the ravaged Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, is one of the starkest indications yet of an increasingly troubled search for workers willing to carry out the hazardous decommissioning at the site.
这则令人沮丧的消息针对的是穷困潦倒的人，是一家为已遭破坏的福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant)招工的公司贴出的。如今要找到乐意担负这项危险使命，来拆除核电站反应堆的工人已经越来越难，而这则广告更是明确无误地体现了这一点。
The plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, known as Tepco, has been shifting its attention away, leaving the complex cleanup to an often badly managed, poorly trained, demoralized and sometimes unskilled work force that has made some dangerous missteps. At the same time, the company is pouring its resources into another plant, Kashiwazaki-Kariwa, that it hopes to restart this year as part of the government’s push to return to nuclear energy three years after the world’s second-worst nuclear disaster. It is a move that some members of the country’s nuclear regulatory board have criticized.
核电站运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）已转移了工作重心，将复杂的清理工作留给一队常常是管理不善、缺乏培训、意志消沉，有时甚至技能低下的员工，而这些员工已经造成了一些危险的“失误”。与此同时，东电正将大量资源投入另一座电站——柏崎刈羽(Kashiwazaki-Kariwa)核电站。公司希望今年重启柏崎刈羽核电站，这也是在世界第二大核事故发生三年后，日本政府在恢复核能方面做出的努力。相关行动已经遭到了日本核能监管委员会部分成员的批评。
That has translated into jobs at Fukushima that pay less and are more sporadic, chasing away qualified workers. Left behind, laborers and others say, is a work force often assembled by fly-by-night labor brokers with little technical or safety expertise and even less concern about hiring desperate people. Police and labor activists say some of the most aggressive of the brokers have mob ties.
这就带来了福岛核电站那些薪酬更低、更随机的工作，迫使合格的员工离开。包括工人在内的相关人士表示，留下的是一些常常是靠不太可信的中介找来的工人。这些中介没有多少技术和安全方面的知识，更不在乎招揽那些走投无路的人。警方和劳工权益倡导人士表示，其中一些最嚣张的中介有黑帮背景。
Regulators, contractors and more than 20 current and former workers interviewed in recent months say the deteriorating labor conditions are a prime cause of a string of large leaks of contaminated water and other embarrassing errors that have already damaged the environment and, in some cases, put workers in danger. In the worst-case scenario, experts fear, struggling workers could trigger a bigger spill or another radiological release.
最近几个月采访的监管机构、承包商以及二十多位过去和现在在福岛核电站工作的工人都表示，恶化的劳工条件是福岛一系列问题的主因。福岛核电站已发生多次大规模污水泄漏事故，并出现了一些令人尴尬的错误，导致对环境的破坏，在一些情况下，还让工人陷入危险。专家们担心，在最糟糕的情况下，面对问题不知所措的工人们有可能会导致更大规模的污水泄漏，或是又一场放射性元素的泄漏。
“There is a crisis of manpower at the plant,” said Yukiteru Naka, founder of Tohoku Enterprise, a contractor and former plant engineer for General Electric. “We are forced to do more with less, like firemen being told to use less water even though the fire’s still burning.”
“核电站正在上演一场人力危机，”东北公司(Yukiteru Naka)创始人、通用电气(General Electric)前设备工程师，及承包商名嘉幸照(Yukiteru Naka)说。“我们不得不用更少的东西做更多的事，就好像跟救火队员说要少用水，尽管火还在烧。”
That crisis was especially evident one dark morning last October, when a crew of contract workers was sent to remove hoses and valves as part of a long-overdue upgrade to the plant’s water purification system.
而去年10月一个阴郁的早上，这场危机显得尤为触目惊心。当时为了进行一场拖延已久的工程，来升级电站的水净化系统，管理方派了一队工人去拆除水管和阀门。
According to regulatory filings by Tepco, the team received only a 20-minute briefing from their supervisor and were given no diagrams of the system they were to fix and no review of safety procedures — a scenario a former supervisor at the plant called unthinkable. Worse yet, the laborers were not warned that a hose near the one they would be removing was filled with water laced with radioactive cesium.
根据东电提交的监管文件，这队工人事前仅仅接受了主管20分钟的情况通报，对于将要维修的系统，他们没有拿到任何图纸，也没有回顾安全流程，该电站的一位前主管称出现这样的情况让人难以置信。更糟糕的是，没有人提醒这些工人，在他们应该拆除的那根水管附近，有另一根水管充满了富含放射性元素铯的污水。
As the men shambled off in their bulky protective gear, their supervisor, juggling multiple responsibilities, left to check on another crew. They chose the wrong hose, and a torrent of radioactive water began spilling out. Panicked, the workers thrust their gloved hands into the water to try to stop the leak, spraying themselves and two other workers who raced over to help.
就在这些穿着沉重防护服的工人步履蹒跚地去执行任务时，他们同时负责多项任务的主管离开去查看另一组人员的工作。工人们找错了水管，含有放射性元素的污水喷涌而出。惊慌失措的工人们将戴着手套的双手伸入水中，企图堵住漏水，结果给他们自己和其他两个赶过来帮忙的工人身上喷上了污水。
Although the workers received significant exposures, Shigeharu Nakachi, an expert in the health effects of pollution, said it was not enough to cause radiation sickness. Still, he said such exposures were “something that should be avoided at all cost.”
虽然这些工人受到了大剂量的辐射，但研究污染对健康影响的专家中地重晴（Shigeharu Nakachi，音译）表示，这种剂量还不足以引起辐射疾病。但他也表示，“应该不惜一切代价来避免”这种辐射。
Tepco has refused to say how experienced these workers were, but according to regulatory filings, the company that hired them signed a contract for the work a week before the leak. Tepco also refused to say whether the contractor procured them from labor brokers, which is an often illegal if widely accepted part of hiring at nuclear plants. In a written reply to questions, Tepco said it “is not in a position to comment on the employment practices” of its contractors.
东电拒绝透露这些工人的资历，但根据他们提交的监管文件，雇佣他们的公司是在这次泄漏发生一个星期之前签下用工协议的。东电也拒绝透露，承包商是否是从中介手上雇下他们的。这种做法虽然常常是违法的，但在核电站的用工方面却被广泛接受。在针对一些问题给出的书面回答中，东电表示，对于承包商的“用工行为，它没有资格加以评论”。
Similarly, Tepco has refused to divulge a full accounting of a recent leak at the plant — the worst spill in six months — which occurred when workers filling storage tanks with contaminated water remotely diverted it into the wrong tank. But even the scant information available point to confusion by workers. They ignored alarms warning of an overflow because so many tanks are near capacity, alarms ring all the time. No one noticed that water levels in the tank that was supposed to be receiving the water never rose.
同样地，东电也拒绝透露电站最近一次泄漏事故的详情。这是六个月以来最严重的一次泄漏，当时工人们正在往储水箱灌污水，却通过远程操作，将污水引入了错误的水箱里。即使是现有的一些零星信息，也显示出工人们的混乱。因为许多储水箱都快满了，不时发出警报，因此工人们忽视了这次的溢出警报。没人注意到，原本应该接收污水的水箱，其中的水位没有丝毫上涨。
“It’s an extremely elementary mistake,” Toyoshi Fuketa, a commissioner at the Nuclear Regulation Authority, said at a recent hearing. “If a fire alarm went off in your house, you’d be worried, let alone a nuclear power plant.”
“这是一个非常低级的错误，”原子能监管委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)委员更田豊志(Toyoshi Fuketa)在最近的一次听证会上说。“如果你家里的火警铃响了，你会担心，更不要说是在一座核电站里了。”
Tepco’s deputy nuclear chief, Masayuki Ono, later explained that “it did not occur to us to actually go to the scene to check.”
东电原子能部代理部长尾野昌之(Masayuki Ono)后来解释说，“我们当时没有想到要去现场实地检查。”
At the heart of the plant’s problems is a multitiered hiring system in the nuclear industry that critics have long said allowed the large utilities that run the plants to distance themselves from troubles that arise. Under the system, it hires contractors who parcel out work to several layers of subcontractors. At the bottom, subjected to the dirtiest work, are the so-called “nuclear Gypsies” — itinerant laborers lured by the industry’s generally good wages.
福岛核电站问题的关键所在是核工业中多层的雇佣体系。批评人士一直说，这样一个体系使得运营核电站的大型公用事业企业在问题出现时能够置身事外。这种体系会雇佣承包商，由承包商将工作外包给不同级别的分包公司。在这套体系底层的工人担负着最脏的工作，他们被称为“核吉普赛人”——一些受这个行业丰厚工资吸引而来的流动工人。
The accident has only magnified the problems the system allows. According to company records, contract workers at Fukushima Daiichi receive, on average, more than twice the radiation exposure of Tepco employees. The layered system, many say, also allows for relatively little oversight by Tepco.
这次事故更是将该体系所存在的问题进一步放大。根据公司记录，福岛第一核电站的合同工平均接受的辐射是东电员工的两倍多。许多人说，这种多层的用工体系意味着东电的监管能力相对较弱。
In a recent interview, a Tepco spokeswoman said that the company regularly evaluated its contractors and required them to provide their workers with a class on the basics of radiation. (She denied charges of widespread cheating made by some workers.)
在最近的一次采访中，一位东电的女发言人称，公司会定期评估承包商，并要求他们给工人们上课，进行基本辐射知识的培训。（她否认在一些工人中存在大量的作弊行为。）
But at a news conference last month, the chief nuclear regulator, Shunichi Tanaka, said, “There is a subcontracting structure that means even workers from third- or fourth-level contractors work at the site, and Tepco does not have a clear picture of what’s happening on the ground.”
但在上个月举行的一次新闻发布会上，原子能监管机构负责人田中俊一(Shunichi Tanaka)说，“这样一种分包结构意味着，即使是第三甚至第四级承包商的雇员，也能在现场工作。而且东电对现场发生的状况也没有清晰的了解。”
Mr. Naka, the contractor who talked of a manpower crisis, said many of his best engineers — including those who battled explosions and fires in the early days of the crisis — have either quit, or cannot work at the plant because they have reached legal radiation limits for the year.
谈到人力资源危机的承包商名嘉幸照说，许多他手下最好的工程师，包括那些在危机发生后最初几天里，与爆炸和烈火抗争的那些，要么已经辞职，要么因为达到了法定的年度辐射上限而不能再在该核电站工作。
Yoshitatsu Uechi is one of the people who has stepped in for more experienced workers. A former bus driver and construction worker, Mr. Uechi has never before worked at a nuclear plant.
由于缺乏更有经验的工作人员，其他人开始参与进来，植地义龙（Yoshitatsu Uechi，音译）就是其中之一。他当过巴士司机和建筑工人，但从来没有在核电站工作过。
He was paid about $150 a day to work on one of the plant’s most pressing jobs: building tanks to store the vast quantities of contaminated water at the site. He describes hurried days, saying he was told at one point by his contractor to continue sealing the seams of the tanks despite rain and snow that made the sealant slide off.
他现在日薪约为150美元，从事的是核电站里最紧迫的工作：建造蓄水池，以在电站里贮存大量受到污染的水。他描述最忙碌的日子时说，承包商有一次曾告诉他，尽管密封材料会在雨雪冲刷之下滑落，也要继续密封水槽的缝隙。
He believes such slipshod work eventually compromised the tanks, some of which have since leaked.
他认为，这种马马虎虎的工作最终影响了水槽的质量，一些水槽后来泄漏了。
“I spoke out many times on the defects, but nobody listened,” said Mr. Uechi, a father of four who says he left Okinawa and its depressed economy for Fukushima to provide a better life for his children. He said he rarely saw Tepco managers while on the job.
植地义龙说，“这些瑕疵我提出过很多次，但没人听。”植地是四个孩子的父亲，他说他离开经济凋敝的冲绳来到福岛，是为了给孩子们提供更好的生活。他说，自己在工作中很难看到东电的管理人员。
He said he expressed his worries not only to his immediate bosses, but to Tepco. (Asked about the complaints, Tepco said it could not discuss individual workers out of privacy concerns.)
他说，他不仅对直属领导表达过担忧，也向东电投诉过。（在被问及这些投诉时，东电表示，出于隐私方面的考虑，不能讨论具体的工作人员。）
Tepco has promised to increase pay to make up for the risky and unstable nature of the work. Still, workers eating dinner at a dormitory near the plant were skeptical, especially over whether they would receive any extra money.
东电承诺提高薪酬，从而为这份工作有风险、不稳定的性质给予补偿。然而在工厂附近的宿舍里吃晚餐的工人们却表示怀疑，尤其是怀疑他们会不会拿到更多的钱。
“Once the many levels of contractors skim off their share, there’s not very much left for us,” said one worker in his 40s said, as he and two colleagues washed down a simple meal of chicken, eggplant and rice with beer and whiskey.
一名40岁的工人说，“那么多层承包商抽走自己的那份钱之后，留给我们的就没有多少了。”说这话时，他正在和两名工友吃着简餐，其中有鸡肉、茄子、米饭，还有啤酒和威士忌。
Each of the men — who feared being fired if their names were used — were housed in tiny rooms with a bed and a desk. The area around the dormitory is mainly deserted since many people refused to move back after the accident.
这些工人每人一个房间，房内有床有桌，他们担心使用真名就会被开除。宿舍周围的区域大多人迹罕至，原因是许多人在事故发生后不愿搬回这里。