He might have been called Sherrinford, might have resided at 221 Upper Baker Street, and might not have survived the Reichenbach Falls.
他本来可能叫谢林福特(Sherrinford)，本可能住在上贝克街221号，本可能死在雷申巴克瀑布。
But luckily for his fans, Arthur Conan Doyle changed his mind more than once about his fictional ‘‘consulting detective,’’ now the subject of a Museum of London exhibition called ‘‘Sherlock Holmes: The Man Who Never Lived And Will Never Die.’’
对粉丝们来说幸运的是，阿瑟·柯南·道尔(Arthur Conan Doyle)对自己虚构的“顾问侦探”多次改变主意。现在，这位侦探成了伦敦博物馆一场展览的主题，展览名为“夏洛克·福尔摩斯：那个从未活过也永不会死的人”(Sherlock Holmes: The Man Who Never Lived And Will Never Die)。
The intrigue begins right at the exhibition’s entrance, with visitors pushing through a door hidden in a wall of fake bookshelves.
趣味从展览入口处就开始了——参观者要穿过一扇隐藏在假书架墙上的门。
Then they hear the voices of actors like John Gielgud and Simon Callow who portrayed him on the radio, and see video clips of actors like Basil Rathbone and Jeremy Brett who played him decades ago on screen.
然后他们听见曾在电台为福尔摩斯配音的约翰·吉尔古德(John Gielgud)和西蒙·卡洛(Simon Callow)的声音，看到几十年前在电影和电视中饰演福尔摩斯的巴兹尔·拉思伯恩(Basil Rathbone)和杰里米·布雷特(Jeremy Brett)的视频剪辑。
The exhibition’s organizers say they are trying to give those who may have discovered Holmes through the latest film or television adaptation a wider cultural context for a true London icon.
这场展览的组织者们称，他们努力为那些通过最新电影或改编的电视剧集发现福尔摩斯的人呈现更广阔的文化背景，以真正了解这位伦敦的标志人物。
Capitalizing on interest in the BBC’s Emmy-winning version starring Benedict Cumberbatch and Martin Freeman, the museum reaches back to 1885 and a sheet of paper upon which Conan Doyle first jotted down some ideas, including possible names and addresses for his stories.
该博物馆利用人们对获得艾美奖的BBC电视剧《神探夏洛克》(本尼迪克特·康伯巴奇[Benedict Cumberbatch]和马丁·弗里曼[Martin Freeman]主演)的兴趣，追溯到1885年的一张纸，柯南·道尔在这张纸上匆匆写下一些想法，包括故事的备选名字和地址。
‘‘For very keen Sherlockians, this in where it all starts,’’ the curator, Alex Werner, said in an interview. ‘‘It’s a paper where Conan Doyle is really thinking out the story. He is considering the name Sherrinford Holmes and he doesn’t have Dr. Watson’s name yet.’’
“对福尔摩斯迷们来说，这是一切的开端，”策展人亚历克斯·维尔纳(Alex Werner)在采访中说，“柯南·道尔真正思考这个故事就是从这张纸开始的。他在考虑把主人公命名为谢林福特·福尔摩斯，还没想好华生医生(Dr. Watson)的名字。”
And because Conan Doyle considered Edgar Allen Poe as a major influence, the show includes an excerpt from the handwritten manuscript of what is considered the world’s first modern detective story, Poe’s ‘‘The Murders in the Rue Morgue.’’
柯南·道尔认为埃德加·艾伦·坡(Edgar Allen Poe)对自己影响巨大，所以这场展览包括艾伦·坡《摩格街谋杀案》(The Murders in the Rue Morgue)的手稿节选。它被认为是世界上第一个现代侦探故事。
‘‘We’ve borrowed three pages from the Free Library of Philadelphia,’’ Mr. Werner said, ‘‘the first time these have been out of the United States.’’
“我们从费城自由图书馆(Free Library of Philadelphia)借了三页，”维尔纳说，“这些草稿是首次离开美国。”
But the pipe-puffing, opium-dabbling detective and his note-taking sidekick share the spotlight here with a very moody third character, the city of London itself.
但是这位抽着烟斗、吸着鸦片的侦探和他做笔记的助手与另一位非常喜怒无常的角色共享这里的聚光灯。它就是伦敦。
‘‘The whole world of Sherlock Holmes emanates from the consulting room at 221B Baker Street,’’ Mr. Werner said. ‘‘He is always returning there; messages are delivered there; it’s the place where he thinks through the problems and solves the mysteries.’’
“夏洛克·福尔摩斯的整个世界源于贝克街221B号的咨询室，”维尔纳说，“他总是回到那里；消息被送往那里；他在那里思考难题，破解谜案。”
Using photographs and postcards, the display illustrates the mysterious atmosphere of Victorian London described in the Holmes canon of more than 50 short stories and four short novels.
这场展览通过照片和明信片展示福尔摩斯经典作品中描绘的维多利亚时代伦敦的神秘氛围。这些作品包括50多个短篇故事和四本短篇小说。
The exhibition ends with a look at the immortality of Holmes: Even the author tried, but failed, to kill him.
展览在结尾处探讨了福尔摩斯的永恒：甚至连作者想杀死他也未能成功。
‘‘As soon as Conan Doyle created this character, he was trying to kill him off,’’ Mr. Werner said. ‘‘For him, it was just a popular story and he wanted to be known for more serious literary works.’’But the public wanted more, so Conan Doyle, who had shocked American and British readers by letting Holmes fall to his death at the Reichenbach Falls in Switzerland in 1893, brought him back to life in 1903.
“柯南·道尔在创造出这个人物时就想杀死他，”维尔纳说，“对他来说，它只是个通俗故事，他想以更严肃的文学作品闻名。”1893年，柯南·道尔让福尔摩斯在雷申巴克瀑布摔死，震惊了英美读者。他们想听到更多关于福尔摩斯的故事，所以作者在1903年让他复活了。