When Ying Guan Chen — stumbling and bleeding from the bullet holes in his face and lower torso — collapsed and died in a Popeye’s restaurant in the Sunset Park neighborhood in Brooklyn, it was clear almost at once that his killer was a fellow Chinese immigrant named Wu Long Chen.
陈英冠（音）在布鲁克林日落公园(Sunset Park)附近的大力水手餐厅(Popeye’s restaurant)中弹倒地，面部和下腹中弹，伤口大量流血，而后昏迷死亡。几乎当场就可断定，行凶者是同为中国移民的陈武龙（音）。
But while the shooting occurred against a gritty New York backdrop — a fast-food chicken joint a few blocks from an elevated highway — it roots lay in events that started thousands of miles away in a rural village in the Chinese province of Fujian.
虽然枪杀真切地发生在纽约——就在距离高架路几个街区外的一个炸鸡快餐店里——但它的祸根源自几千英里外中国福建省的一个农村。
There, more than 20 years ago, those who know the story say, a family feud broke out, the bitterness of which survived both time and the two men’s journeys from China to New York. Last month, Wu Long Chen, 46, was convicted in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn of murdering Ying Guan Chen, 68. And on Monday, Wu Long Chen will face up to life in prison at a sentencing hearing where members of his victim’s family are expected to tell a judge about the vendetta.
据知情人称，20多年前，那里发生了一起家族冲突。时光流逝，两人从中国来到纽约，但是心中仍有余恨。上个月，纽约州最高法院布鲁克林分院判定46岁的陈武龙谋杀了68岁的陈英冠。周一，在宣判听证会上，陈武龙将面临最高可为终身监禁的宣判，届时受害者家属可能会将这段夙怨告知法官。
It began in the village of Fengchen, in the town of Heshang, in the Changle section of Fuzhou City, in Fujian Province, a mountainous region on the eastern coast of China that rests against the commingled waters of the South and East China Seas. According to Ying Guan Chen’s widow, Aijiao Xu, the two Chen families had lived for years near one another on an unpaved road in the village, which is populated by residents who share a common ancestry and surname.
故事始于中国东部山区福建省，这个省份临近南海与东海交汇的水域。两个陈姓家庭住在福州市长乐区鹤上镇峰陈村，村民们有着共同的祖先和相同的姓。据陈英冠的遗孀徐爱娇（音）称，两家是该村的近邻，在同一条土路边住了很多年。
Two of Ying Guan Chen’s brothers lived across the road from Wu Long Chen and his family, and whenever the second family cleaned their house, a pile of sweepings, Ms. Xu said — much of it leaves and paper — would blow downwind toward the first family’s house, clogging its gutter. There was no municipal garbage service then, Ms. Xu said, and so the tensions eventually reached a fever point.
徐爱娇称，陈英冠的两个兄弟住在陈武龙一家对面，陈武龙家每次打扫房间，一堆垃圾——大多是树叶和纸片——会顺风吹到陈英冠两个兄弟家里，把排水沟堵住。徐爱娇称，当时还没有市政垃圾处理服务，所以双方的紧张关系最终达到白热化。
One day, around the time of a Chinese New Year, Ms. Xu heard an argument coming from her husband’s brothers’ house. When she ran over with her eldest son to investigate, she said, she saw the brothers fighting with the family of Wu Long Chen.
某年春节前后的一天，徐爱娇听见小叔子家里传出争吵声。她说，她和大儿子跑去查看，看到两兄弟正在跟陈武龙一家打架。
One of Wu Long’s brothers, Ms. Xu said, had grabbed an ax and was swinging it at one of her husband’s brothers. Ms. Xu’s son hit the brother in the leg with a stick, knocking him down and leaving him, as she put it, “feeling faint.”
徐爱娇说，陈武龙的一个兄弟拿起一把斧头，冲着她的一个小叔子挥舞。徐爱娇的儿子用棍子打了陈武龙那个兄弟的腿，把他打倒了，据徐爱娇说，他当场“昏了过去”。
“His brothers had to drag him back to his house,” said Ms. Xu’s daughter, Xiaomei Chen, who was only 6 at the time, but has heard the story from her family.
“他的兄弟们只能把他拖回房间，”徐爱娇的女儿陈晓梅（音）说。她当时只有六岁，但听家人讲过这个故事。
Eventually, the police were called and one of Wu Long Chen’s relatives and Ms. Xu’s eldest son were both hauled down to the station house, where they remained overnight and both families were fined, Ms. Xu said.
徐爱娇说，最后警察来了，陈武龙的一个亲戚和徐爱娇的大儿子都被带去了派出所，关了一夜，两家人都被罚了款。
After the fight, some of Ying Guan Chen’s relatives gathered large stones, Tianxia Chen, a neighbor of both the families, said. Then, in the evening, they went to the second story of their house and took turns hurling the stones at Wu Long Chen’s family’s house.
两家人共同的邻居陈天侠（音）说，那次打架后，陈英冠的一些亲戚收集了一些大石头。然后他们在晚上到自家的二层楼，轮流往陈武龙家的院子里扔石头。
The stones shattered windows and glass doors, Tianxia Chen recalled. Furniture was destroyed.
陈天侠回忆，石头打碎了窗户和玻璃门。家具都被毁了。
“The house was completely smashed,” he said.
“房子完全被毁了，”他说。
And from that point onward, Ms. Xu added, the families never spoke.
徐爱娇还说，从那以后，两家人再没说过话。
So it went, even though both Wu Long Chen and Ying Guan Chen had moved to New York City. Twice, Ms. Xu recalled, the men had chance encounters on the streets of Manhattan’s Chinatown. But each time, she said, they passed one another without a word exchanged.
虽然陈武龙和陈英冠后来都搬到了纽约，他们依然互不说话。徐爱娇回忆说，两人在曼哈顿中国城的大街上偶遇过两次，但他们两次都没说话。
While both men made a living in New York working in Chinese restaurants, Wu Long Chen was fired about five years ago and in his despair he sought out Tianxia Chen, who had also moved to the city. Tianxia Chen, a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine, said he treated his friend for mental illness, and though it seemed to help for a while, Wu Long Chen’s troubles gradually returned.
虽然两人都在纽约的中餐馆谋生，但是大约五年前，陈武龙被解雇了，他在绝望中向同样搬到纽约的陈天侠求助。陈天侠是中医大夫，他说自己帮助陈武龙治疗过精神疾病，陈武龙虽然似乎好转了一段时间，但慢慢地又出现了症状。
Though he frequented the employment agencies on Eldridge Street, he was unable to hold a job, Tianxia Chen said. “He would get confused,” Tianxia Chen said.
陈天侠说，虽然陈武龙常去埃尔德里奇街的职业介绍所，但他什么工作也做不长。“他有时候会犯糊涂，”陈天侠说。
Then, in October, just two months before the shooting, Wu Long Chen attended the wedding of a fellow Fengchen villager at the Pacificana Restaurant in Sunset Park. Ying Guan Chen was also there. Guests at the wedding said that while the two men saw each other, they did not interact. And, according to Tianxia Chen, after the event, Wu Long Chen became obsessed with Ying Guan Chen, asking repeatedly for his phone number and talking about revenge.
2015年10月，就在枪击案发生前两个月，陈武龙去日落公园的海悦餐厅(Pacificana Restaurant)参加以前峰陈村一个村民的婚礼。陈英冠也在那里。据婚礼上的宾客称，虽然两人看见了彼此，但是没有交谈。据陈天侠说，婚礼结束后，陈武龙老想着陈英冠，反复询问他的电话号码，说要报仇。
“It’s been 20 years,” Tianxia Chen recalled telling Wu Long Chen. “What revenge do you seek now?”
“都过去20年了，”陈天侠记得自己这样对陈武龙说。“你现在报什么仇？”
It was around the same time, Tianxia Chen said, that Wu Long Chen claimed to have bought a gun. Worried by the news, Tianxia Chen said he told his friend: “If you bought a gun, get rid of it — throw it away.”
陈天侠说，差不多就在那个时候，陈武龙说自己买了一把枪。陈天侠听到这个消息后很担忧，对他的朋友说：“你要是买了枪，赶紧处理掉——把它扔了。”
Though Wu Long Chen eventually claimed that he was only joking about the gun, the authorities say that he did indeed buy one. And on Dec. 7, 2015, they said, he brought it, hidden in a duffel bag, to the wedding of another immigrant from Fengchen — this one at a restaurant in Sunset Park called the Golden Imperial Palace.
虽然陈武龙最终说，枪的事只是开玩笑，但当局表示，他的确买了一把枪。当局称，2015年12月7日，他买了一把枪，藏在帆布包里，去参加另一名来自峰陈村的移民的婚礼，这次是在日落公园一个名叫金皇廷(Golden Imperial Palace)的餐厅里。
Once again, Ying Guan Chen was also there. In fact, a videotape shows him placing a red gift envelope among a stack of others near the door and talking with his friends from the village. Wu Long Chen can also be seen in the videotape: sitting at a table eating dinner, the duffel bag with the gun inside beside him.
这一次，陈英冠同样在场。事实上，一段视频显示，他在门边把一个红包放进一摞红包中间，还和同村友人聊了天。在视频中也能看到陈武龙：他坐在一张桌子旁吃晚餐，身边搁着装枪的大号旅行包。
Shortly after 9:30 p.m., Ying Guan Chen left the wedding. Wu Long Chen followed him, the videotape shows, trailing his rival for several blocks.
晚上9点半刚过，陈英冠离开婚礼现场。视频显示陈武龙跟了出去，他尾随着仇人走过了几个街区。
Then, at 61st Street and Seventh Avenue, Wu Long Chen, his gun in hand, approached his former neighbor on the sidewalk and fired three shots at him at point-blank range. A videotape from a surveillance camera shows Wu Long Chen running away. Another surveillance camera captured Ying Guan Chen stumbling into the Popeye’s where he collapsed.
随后，在61街和第七大道交界处，手中持枪的陈武龙在便道上凑近自己以前的邻居，朝对方近距离开了三枪。一段监控视频显示了陈武龙逃跑的情形。另一段监控视频捕捉到了陈英冠踉踉跄跄闯进大力水手炸鸡店的身影——他在那里倒在地上。
After 20 years of hearing tales about the fight in Fengchen, Xiaomei Chen, Ying Guan Chen’s daughter, said she still had a hard time believing that something from the distant past — and from another continent — had caused her father’s death.
陈英冠之女陈晓梅二十年前就听说过峰陈村的那场争斗，她仍然难以相信，发生在遥远的过去以及另一个大洲上的某件事导致了父亲的死亡。
“How is it even possible that someone could hold a grudge over something like this?” she said.
“一个人怎么可能为了这么一件事就怀恨在心？”她说。