This is not another obituary for Roger Ailes, who died last week 10 months after being ousted at Fox News. It is, I hope, instead an obituary for the culture he purveyed — a culture that affected me profoundly and personally.
这不是罗杰·艾尔斯(Roger Ailes)的另一则讣告，上周，他在被赶出福克斯新闻(Fox News)10个月后过世。我希望，这是他所传播的那种文化的讣告——这种文化对我产生了深刻的、切身的影响。
Just two years after Rupert Murdoch appointed Mr. Ailes to head the new cable news network, my relationship with President Bill Clinton became public. Mr. Ailes, a former Republican political operative, took the story of the affair and the trial that followed and made certain his anchors hammered it ceaselessly, 24 hours a day.
鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)任命艾尔斯领导这个新的有线新闻网刚刚两年，我与比尔·克林顿总统的关系公开了。前共和党政治操盘手艾尔斯盯紧这桩绯闻和接下来的审判，确保他的主播一天24小时不间断地关注这件事。
It worked like magic: The story hooked viewers and made them Fox loyalists. For the past 15 years, Fox News has been the No. 1 news station; last year the network made about $2.3 billion.
效果很神奇：这个故事吸引了观众，让他们成为福克斯的忠实粉丝。15年来，福克斯新闻一直是美国第一大新闻台，去年这个电视台的收入大约是23亿美元。
Some experts have noted that viewers found Fox for the first time because of the crisis. John Moody, a Fox executive editor, reflected on that period: “The Lewinsky saga put us on the news map.” As he put it in another interview: “Monica was a news channel’s dream come true.”
有专家指出，正是由于那次危机，观众第一次注意到了福克斯。福克斯执行主编约翰·穆迪(John Moody)回忆那段时期的时候说：“莱温斯基事件让我们登上了新闻的版图。”他在另一次采访时说：“对于一个新闻频道来说，莫妮卡就像是美梦成真。”
Their dream was my nightmare. My character, my looks and my life were picked apart mercilessly. Truth and fiction mixed at random in the service of higher ratings. My family and I huddled at home, worried about my going to jail — I was the original target of Kenneth Starr’s investigation, threatened with 27 years for having been accused of signing a false affidavit and other alleged crimes — or worse, me taking my own life. Meantime, Mr. Ailes huddled with his employees at Fox News, dictating a lineup of talking heads to best exploit this personal and national tragedy.
他们的美梦是我的噩梦。我的性格、我的外表和我的生活都被摧毁了。真实和虚构的内容随机地混合在一起，以便获得更高的收视率。我和家人闭门不出，担心我要进监狱——我成了肯尼思·斯塔尔(Kenneth Starr)调查的最初目标，因为被控在一个虚假的誓言上签字，以及其他所谓的罪行，可能要被监禁27年——更糟的是，他们担心我自杀。与此同时，艾尔斯与福克斯新闻的员工们却聚在一起，示意各方人马最大程度地利用这起个人悲剧和国家悲剧。
For myriad reasons — information gathering, boredom (I couldn’t leave my home without being trailed by paparazzi) and a touch of masochism — I watched the news around the clock. On Fox, it seemed, no rumor was too unsubstantiated, no innuendo too vile and no accusation too abhorrent.
出于无数的原因——信息收集、无聊（我一离开家就有狗仔队追踪）和一丝受虐狂——我全天候地收看他们的新闻。在福克斯，没有根据的谣言、邪恶的讽刺、恶毒的指责，似乎都是没有下限的。
Let’s not pretend that Fox News was the only network to cover this story in the gutter. Mr. Ailes’s station may have pioneered this new style of television reportage, but the other cable news channels didn’t hesitate to join the race to the bottom. In fact, in late 1998, when Keith Olbermann briefly left MSNBC, he expressed disgust with the frequent Lewinsky coverage.
这倒也不是说福克斯新闻是唯一这么无耻报道这件事的新闻台。但艾尔斯的电视台可能是这种新的电视报道方式的开创者，其他有线新闻频道也毫不犹豫地加入到逐底竞争中来。事实上，到1998年底，当基斯·奥尔伯曼(Keith Olbermann)暂时离开MSNBC的时候，他对莱温斯基一事的密集报道也表示了厌恶。
Just as television news was devolving into a modern coliseum, the internet came along and compounded this culture of shame and vitriol. Remember: The story of my affair was not broken by The Washington Post, The New York Times or the networks, but online by the Drudge Report. The comments on television and online were excruciating. I ceased being a three-dimensional person. Instead I became a whore, a bimbo, a slut and worse. Just days after the story broke, Fox asked its viewers to vote on this pressing question: Is Monica Lewinsky an “average girl” or a “young tramp looking for thrills”?
就在电视新闻台退化为现代斗兽场之际，互联网也加入进来，让这种羞辱和刻薄的文化变本加厉。请记住：我的绯闻不是《华盛顿邮报》、《纽约时报》或哪个新闻台曝光的，而是 “德鲁奇报道”网站(Drudge Report)抖漏的。电视上和网络上的评论令人痛苦。我不再是一个三维的人了。而是成了妓女、蠢货、荡妇，还有更糟的。报道出来几天后，福克斯要求观众投票表决一个紧迫的问题：莫妮卡·莱温斯基是“普通女孩”还是“寻找刺激的年轻荡妇”？
Our world — of cyberbullying and chyrons, trolls and tweets — was forged in 1998. It is, as the historian Nicolaus Mills has put it, a “culture of humiliation,” in which those who prey on the vulnerable in the service of clicks and ratings are handsomely rewarded.
我们的世界——充满网络欺凌和滚动新闻、喷子和推文——是在1998年被打造出来的。正如历史学家尼古劳斯·米尔斯(Nicolaus Mills)所说，那是一种“羞辱文化”，为了获得带来巨大回报的点击量和收视率，人们对弱势者下手。
As the past year has revealed, thanks to brave women like Gretchen Carlson and Megyn Kelly, it is clear that at Fox, this culture of exploitation wasn’t limited to the screen. The irony of Mr. Ailes’s career at Fox — that he harnessed a sex scandal to build a cable juggernaut and then was brought down by his own — was not lost on anyone who has been paying attention.
过去一年里的事情表明，多亏了有格蕾琴·卡尔森(Gretchen Carlson)和梅根·凯利(Megyn Kelly)这些勇敢女性，在福克斯，这种剥削文化显然并不局限在屏幕上。艾尔斯在福克斯职业生涯起伏颇具有讽刺意味，他利用性丑闻来打造了一个有线电视巨头，然后他又因为自己的性丑闻而下了台——知道这件事的人都能看出这有多讽刺。
There are some positive signs that the younger generation at Fox — James and Lachlan Murdoch — seem to want to change the culture Mr. Ailes created. Last week Bob Beckel, a Fox pundit who made a racist remark to an African-American Fox employee, was dismissed. Would this have happened in the Ailes era?
有一些积极的迹象表明，福克斯年轻一代掌门人——詹姆斯和拉克兰·默多克(James and Lachlan Murdoch)似乎都想改变艾尔斯创造的文化。上周，一名对福克斯非裔美国雇员发表种族主义言论的福克斯专家鲍勃·贝克尔(Bob Beckel)被解雇了。在艾尔斯时代会发生这种事吗？
Although I imagine the desire by the Murdoch brothers to present a clean record to the European Commission reviewing their proposed takeover of Sky News played a role in their thinking, the Murdochs deserve praise for their part in the decision to fire Bill O’Reilly, whose show brought in $100 million a year in ad revenue but who harassed and bullied women he worked with. I hope the Murdochs understand that Americans will no longer tolerate a corporate culture that views hate and harassment as part of running a successful news business.
虽然我觉得在这件事中，默多克兄弟希望向欧盟委员会提交一个清白的记录，以便通过他们收购“天空新闻”(Sky News)的提案，可能也发挥了一些作用，但默多克兄弟炒掉比尔·奥莱利(Bill O'Reilly)的决定是值得赞扬的，此人的节目每年带来1亿美元的广告收入，但是他骚扰和欺负共事的女性。我希望默多克兄弟知道，美国人不再容忍这样的企业文化：憎恨和骚扰是一家成功经营的新闻单位所需要的。
None of this is to say that we shouldn’t have a credible conservative point of view in our media — quite the opposite. If we’ve learned nothing else from the 2016 presidential election, it’s that we must find a way to foster robust and healthy discussion and debate. Our news channels should be just such places.
这并不是说我们的媒体不应该有一个可靠、谨慎的立场，而是恰恰相反。如果我们从2016年的总统大选中只学到一件事，那就是我们必须找到一种方法，来鼓励健康有活力的讨论和辩论。我们的新闻频道就应该是这样的地方。
So, farewell to the age of Ailes. The late Fox chief pledged Americans fair and balanced news. Maybe now we’ll get it.
所以，再见了，艾尔斯时代。福克斯这位已故的掌门人承诺给美国人带来公平、平衡的新闻，也许现在我们可以看到了。