TOKYO — About 100 tons of highly radioactive water leaked from one of the hundreds of storage tanks at the devastated Fukushima nuclear plant, its operator said on Thursday, calling it the worst spill at the plant in six months.
东京——受损的福岛核电站的运营商周四表示，核电站数百个储水箱中的一个水箱泄漏了约100吨高放射性污水，并称这是核电站半年来最严重的泄漏事件。
The operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, said the leak, discovered on Wednesday and stopped on Thursday, happened far enough from the plant’s waterfront that none of the radioactive water was likely to reach the Pacific Ocean, as has happened during some previous spills. Still, the incident was an uncomfortable reminder of the many mishaps that have plagued the containment and cleanup efforts at the plant, as well as the hundreds of tons of contaminated groundwater that still flows unchecked into the Pacific every day.
运营商东京电力公司(Tokyo Electric Power Company)称，此次泄漏是周三被发现的，周四就已经停止了，泄漏发生的地方与核电站码头区之间的距离足够远，因此这些放射性污水不大可能像之前一些泄漏事件中那样，进入太平洋。然而，此次令人不安的事故让人想起了困扰着该核电站的控制和清理行动的许多事故，以及每天不受限制地流入太平洋的几百吨地下污水。
The company, known as Tepco, said it had traced the latest leak to a pair of valves that were left open by mistake.
简称东电的该公司称，已追查到这次泄漏是两个阀门造成的，有人错误地开启了它们。
The leaked water was among the most severely contaminated that Tepco has reported in the aftermath of the March 2011 disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, when damage caused by an earthquake and a tsunami led to meltdowns in three of the plant’s reactors. Each liter of the water contained, on average, 230 million becquerels of particles giving off beta radiation, the company said. About half of the particles were likely to be strontium 90, which is readily taken up by the human body in the same way as calcium, and can cause bone cancer and leukemia.
2011年3月，灾难袭击福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)，地震和海啸给核电站造成的损失导致核电站三个反应堆的堆芯熔毁。在东电自那以后通报的情况中，此次泄漏的水属于受污染程度最严重的。东电称，平均每升水含2.3亿贝克能发出β辐射的粒子。约有一半粒子可能是锶-90，这种粒子很容易像钙那样被人体吸收，能够引发骨癌和白血病。
That means the water was about 3.8 million times as contaminated with strontium 90 as the maximum allowed under Japan’s safety standards for drinking water. It also showed levels much more radioactive than a worrisome groundwater reading that Tepco announced earlier this month. That reading — five million becquerels of strontium 90 per liter — which was detected at a location closer to the ocean than the latest spill, prompted criticism of Tepco because the company waited five months to report it publicly.
这意味着，这些水里锶-90的浓度大约是日本饮用水安全标准规定的最大浓度的380万倍。它同时表明，这些污水的放射性水平远高于东电本月早些时候公布的地下水检测结果。当时，令人担忧的结果——每升水含500万贝克锶-90——是在比这次发生泄漏的地方离太平洋更近的地方检测到的。检测结果导致东电广受批评，因为该公司是等到五个月后，才将结果公之于众。
Critics have assailed the company since the accident, saying that it has been slow to acknowledge problems at the stricken plant and that it has disclosed too little information about the conditions inside. Even so, the government has left the company largely in charge of the cleanup work there.
自此次事故发生以来，批评人士一直在抨击该公司，称其在承认受损核电站存在的问题上行动迟缓，而且对有关核电站内部情况的信息公布的过少。尽管如此，政府依然令该公司主要负责那里的清理工作。
Tepco has struggled to deal with the hundreds of tons of groundwater seeping each day into the plant’s damaged reactor buildings, where it is contaminated by the melted nuclear reactor cores. To keep the radioactive water from running into the Pacific, the company must pump it out of the reactor buildings and store it in rows of huge tanks it has erected on the plant’s grounds.
每天，数百吨地下水渗进核电站受损的反应堆建筑，并在那里遭到已熔毁的反应堆堆芯的污染。东电一直无力处理这些地下水。为了防止放射性污水流进太平洋，该公司必须将其从反应堆建筑里泵出来，再将之储存在巨大的水箱中。为此，该公司在核电站的空地上修建了一排又一排的大水箱。
So far, Tepco said, about 340,000 tons of water have accumulated in the tanks, enough to fill more than 135 Olympic-size swimming pools. A ton of water is equivalent to about 240 gallons.
东电称，迄今为止水箱已经蓄了大约34万吨污水，足以注满135个以上奥运会标准的游泳池。一吨大致相当于240加仑。