TOKYO — For months now, it has been hard to escape the continuing deluge of bad news from the devastated Fukushima nuclear power plant.
东京——数月来，遭损毁的福岛核电站不断传来坏消息，其铺天盖地之势令人无法躲避。
Even after the company that operates the plant admitted this summer that tons of contaminated groundwater was leaking into the Pacific Ocean every day, new accidents have added to the uncontrolled releases of radioactive materials. This week, newly tainted rainwater overflowed dikes. Two weeks before that, workers mistakenly disconnected a pipe, dumping 10 more tons of contaminated water onto the ground and dousing themselves in the process.
今年夏天，核电站运营商承认每天有数吨被污染的地下水流进太平洋。而且，新的事故还在加大放射性物质的泄漏。本周，新近被污染的雨水溢出了堤坝。在那之前两周，工人错拔了一根管子，从而导致又有10吨污水被排到了地面，还把他们自己淋了一身。
Those accidents have raised questions about whether the continuing leaks are putting the environment, and by extension the Japanese people, in new danger more than two and a half years after the original disaster — and long after many had hoped natural radioactive decay would have allowed healing to begin.
最初那场灾难已经过去了超过两年半的时间，许多人原本希望，随着放射性衰变自然发生，到此时修复早已应该开始，但这些事故使人们质疑，持续的泄漏是否正在让环境乃至日本人民陷入新的危险。
Interviews with scientists in recent weeks suggest that they are struggling to determine which effects — including newly discovered hot spots on a wide swath of the ocean floor near Fukushima — are from recent leaks and which are leftovers from the original disaster. But evidence collected by them and the plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, shows worrisome trends.
最近几周对科学家进行的采访表明，他们很难确认，哪些影响是最近的泄漏造成的，哪些是最初那场灾难遗留下来的。这些影响包括新近在福岛附近一片宽阔的海床地带发现的高辐射点。但他们和核电站运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）收集到的证据表明，趋势令人担忧。
The latest releases appear to be carrying much more contaminated water than before into the Pacific. And that flow may not slow until at least 2015, when an ice wall around the damaged reactors is supposed to be completed. Beyond that, although many Japanese believed that the plant had stopped spewing radioactive materials long ago, they have continued to seep into the air.
最新泄漏带入太平洋的污水似乎远多于以前。而且泄露速度至少要到2015年才能慢下来，到那时，受损反应堆周围的一堵冰墙应该已经建成。此外，尽管许多日本人认为核电站早已停止喷发放射性物质了，但放射性物质依然在渗入空气。
“This has become a slowly unfolding environmental misery,” said Atsunao Marui, a geochemist at the Geological Survey of Japan who has studied contaminated groundwater flowing from the plant. “If we don’t put a stop to the releases, we risk creating a new man-made disaster.”
“这已经演变成了一场缓慢展开的环境悲剧，”地质调查综合中心(Geological Survey of Japan)地球化学家丸井敦尚(Atsunao Marui)说，“如果不控制住泄漏，我们可能会制造一场新的人为灾难。”他研究了从福岛核电站流出的污染地下水。
Even the most alarmed of the scientists who were interviewed did not extend their worries about the new releases to human health. With more than 80,000 residents near the plant evacuated almost immediately after the disaster, and fishing in nearby waters still severely restricted, they say there is little or no direct danger to humans from the latest releases. But, they say, that does not rule out other impacts on the environment.
接受采访的科学家中，即便是那些最警醒的科学家也不担心最新泄漏会影响到人类健康。灾难发生后，核电站附近的8万多名居民几乎立即就被疏散了，附近水域依然严禁捕鱼。他们表示，有鉴于此，最新泄漏给人类造成的直接危害很小或根本没有。但他们也说，这并不排除会对环境造成其他影响。
And while the air and water releases are a small fraction of what they were in the early days of the disaster, they are still significantly larger than what would normally be permitted of a functioning plant.
同灾难发生后的最初几天相比，如今通过空气和水释放出的辐射物质实在不算多，但它们也依然远高于正常运行的核电站通常获许的排放量。
The magnitude of the recent spike in radiation, and the amounts of groundwater involved, have led Michio Aoyama, an oceanographer at a government research institute who is considered an authority on radiation in the sea, to conclude that radioactive cesium 137 may now be leaking into the Pacific at a rate of about 30 billion becquerels per year, or about three times as high as last year. He estimates that strontium 90 may be entering the Pacific at a similar rate.
近来辐射激增的幅度之大，以及所污染地下水的量之多，都让青山道夫(Michio Aoyama)认为，放射性同位素铯-137可能正以每年约300亿贝可勒尔的速度流入太平洋，此速度为去年的三倍。青山道夫是一位海洋学家，为一家政府研究机构效力，被认为是海洋辐射方面的权威。他估计，锶-90可能也正以相似的速度进入太平洋。
Dr. Aoyama notes that those amounts would be much smaller than the amount of cesium 137 alone released into the Pacific during the accident itself, which he estimates at up to 18 quadrillion becquerels. Still, other scientists suspect that the new releases are having measurable effects beyond the harbor.
青山博士估计，事故发生时，多达1.8万万亿贝可勒尔的铯-137流入了太平洋，他指出，如今的量较那时要小得多。但其他一些科学家却怀疑，最新泄漏对港口以外的地区也有相当大的影响。
Blair Thornton, an associate professor at the University of Tokyo’s Underwater Technology Research Center, helped find the hot spots, spread across at least 150 square miles of the ocean bottom offshore from the plant. He said they appeared to be formed when radioactive particles like cesium and strontium, which are heavier than water, collect in low points like trenches.
东京大学(University of Tokyo)海中工学研究中心(Underwater Technology Research Center)副教授布莱尔·桑顿(Blair Thornton)帮助找到了高辐射点，它们至少覆盖了核电站以外150平方英里（约合388平方公里）海床的范围。他表示，这些高辐射点看来是在铯和锶这些重于水的放射性物质积聚在海底深沟等低点时形成的。
Radiation levels there should naturally weaken over time, Dr. Thornton said, as sea currents deposit new sediments on top of toxic particles. The fact that radiation levels are still up to hundreds of times as high as they are in other areas of the sea floor raises the possibility that the spots are being blanketed in new contamination from the plant, he said. The other possibility, Dr. Thornton said, is that radioactive particles released by the original accident bonded to mud on the sea bottom and are not disappearing as quickly as expected.
桑顿博士表示，随着洋流将新的沉淀物覆盖到有毒物质以上，那些地方的辐射水平应该会随时间推移而自然减弱。他说，目前的情况是，这些地方的辐射水平依然是海床其他地区辐射水平的数百倍，因此提出了这种可能性，这些高辐射点上又覆盖上了核电站释放出的新污染物质。桑顿博士说，还有一种可能是，事故最初发生时释放出的放射性物质粘在了海床的泥上，不会像预期消失得那么快。
Less attention has been paid to the continued airborne releases of cesium from the site’s crippled reactors, whose layers of protection were damaged or destroyed. The plant still emits 10 million becquerels per hour into the atmosphere, according to Tepco. While the amounts of airborne emissions dropped sharply after the accident, which spewed radioactive materials across a wide swath of northeastern Japan, they have held steady since February 2012, Tepco said.
核电站损毁反应堆外的层层防护要么已遭破坏，要么已完全损毁，因此损毁反应堆仍持续通过空气释放出铯，但这一问题却没有引起那么大的关注。东电公司表示，核电站依然以每小时1000万贝可勒尔的速度向大气释放放射性元素。东电公司表示，核电站事故向日本东北部大片地区释放了放射性物质，虽然事故过后，向空气排放的辐射已大大减少，但2012年2月以来，排放量始终维持在一个固定的水平上。
Tepco has tried to stop these continuing releases by taking steps like erecting a cover over one damaged reactor, but it acknowledges that radioactive materials still escape through tiny gaps in the cover, or through damaged ventilation systems and cracks in the reactor buildings. So long as such air and water releases continue, experts warn, there will be no end to Fukushima’s slowly unfolding environmental damage.
东电已试图停止这些持续的泄漏，采取了一系列措施，其中包括在一个遭破坏的反应堆外架设覆盖物，但它也承认，放射性物质依然会透过覆盖物上的小空隙，或反应堆建筑上遭损毁的通风系统和缝隙钻出来。专家们警告，只要这样的气态和液态泄露继续，逐渐在福岛核电站出现的环境破坏就不会终止。
“These aren’t levels that are going to directly affect human health,” Masashi Kusakabe, a researcher at an institute that has monitored cesium in the ocean for the government, said referring to releases into the Pacific.
日下部正志(Masashi Kusakabe)是一名研究员，效力于一家为政府监测流入太平洋的铯元素的机构，他说，“这样的辐射量不会直接影响人体健康，”这里是指流入太平洋的辐射量。
“But that doesn’t mean that therefore these releases are good or acceptable,” he said. “There is no precedent for what is happening, so we are on untrodden ground.”
“但这并不是说，这样的辐射没有问题，或者可以接受，”他说。“以前从没有这样的事发生过，所以我们目前的处境也是没有先例的。”