TOKYO — The cleanup of Japan’s devastated Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant crossed an important milestone on Saturday when the plant’s operator announced it had safely removed the radioactive fuel from the most vulnerable of the four heavily damaged reactor buildings.
东京——日本福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的清理工作周六跨越了一座重要的里程碑。核电站的运营方宣布：严重损毁的四座反应堆建筑中，最脆弱的那座里的辐射性燃料已被安全转移。
The operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, removed the last remaining fuel rods from the ruined No. 4 reactor building, putting the rods inside a large white container for transportation to another, undamaged storage pool elsewhere on the plant’s grounds. The company, known as Tepco, had put a high priority on removing the No. 4 unit’s some 1,500 fuel rods because they sat in a largely unprotected storage pool on an upper floor of the building, which had been gutted by a powerful hydrogen explosion during the March 2011 accident.
核电站的运营方东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）取出了受损的4号反应堆建筑中剩余的所有燃料棒，把它们放进一个巨大的白色容器中，准备运输到核电站场地内一座未受损的储存池中。东电公司此前一直把移除4号反应堆的约1500根燃料棒作为首要任务，因为它们处在建筑上层的一座基本上不受保护的燃料储存池中，而该建筑在2011年3月的事故中因威力巨大的氢爆炸而遭到严重破坏。
This had led to fears of additional releases of radioactive material if the pool was damaged further, such as by an earthquake. By succeeding in the technically difficult task of extracting those rods, Tepco eliminated one of the plant’s most worrisome vulnerabilities. This is also the first time that the fuel has been removed from one of the four wrecked reactor buildings.
爆炸引发了外界的担忧：如果储存池出于地震等原因受到进一步损毁，将会泄露更多辐射物质。取出这些燃料棒的任务在技术上颇具难度，而在成功地完成这项任务之后，东电消除了核电站最令人忧虑的薄弱环节。这也是四座受损的核反应建筑中的燃料首次被成功转移。
It took almost four years to reach this goal, as the cleanup has been plagued by mishaps and a so far unstoppable flow of groundwater that has flooded the basements of the crippled reactor buildings. The aging Fukushima Daiichi plant suffered a triple meltdown after a huge earthquake and tsunami struck on March 11, 2011, knocking out vital cooling systems.
实现这一目标花了近四年时间。清理工作频频受阻，影响因素包括几次意外事件，以及迄今未能控制住的涌入受损反应堆建筑地下室的地下水。在2011年3月11日发生的强烈地震和海啸摧毁了至关重要的冷却系统之后，老化的福岛第一核电站遭受了三重熔融的打击。
Tepco still faces the far more challenging task of removing the ruined fuel cores from the three reactors that melted down in the accident. These reactors were so damaged — and their levels of radioactivity remain so high — that removing their fuel is expected to take decades. Some experts have said it may not be possible at all, and have called instead for simply encasing those reactors in a sarcophagus of thick concrete.
东电依然面临一项艰巨得多的挑战，即清除已在事故中熔融的三座反应堆中被毁的堆芯燃料。这些反映堆受损严重——辐射水平也依然居高不下——清理工作预计要花费数十年时间。一些专家认为这项任务或许根本就不可能完成，转而提议用厚厚的混凝土建造一座密闭设施，将那些反应堆封存起来。
The fuel cores from those three reactors, Nos. 1-3, are believed to have melted like wax as the uncooled reactors overheated, forming lumps on the bottom of the reactor vessels. Scientists have warned that the hot, molten uranium may have even melted through the metal containment vessels, possibly reaching the floor of the reactor buildings or even the earth beneath.
据信，在未被冷却的反应堆过热的过程中，1至3号反应堆的堆芯燃料已经像蜡一样熔化了，并在反应堆容器底部结成了块。科学家们警告，熔融的高温铀甚至可能已经熔穿了金属保护壳，可能已抵达反应堆建筑的基底乃至下面的土壤。
However, it was the storage pool at the No. 4 unit, and particularly its highly radioactive spent fuel rods, that had caused the most intense concern in the first weeks after the accident. While the No. 4 reactor itself had been safely shut down when the accident happened, hydrogen released by the meltdowns at the other reactors caused an enormous explosion that blew off the reactor building’s roof and walls, leaving its storage pool exposed to the air.
然而，在事故发生后的最初几周，最受关注的是4号机组的储存池，特别是里面放置的具有高度辐射性的乏燃料棒。尽管事故发生时，4号反应堆本身已被安全关闭，但其他反应堆熔融时释放的氢气引发了一场大爆炸，掀翻了4号反应堆所在建筑的屋顶和墙壁，导致其燃料池直接暴露在了空气中。