The stricken nuclear power plant at Fukushima has probably been leaking contaminated water into the ocean for two years, ever since an earthquake and tsunami badly damaged the plant, Japan’s chief nuclear regulator said on Wednesday.
周三，日本的首要核监管机构称，自从地震和海啸造成严重损失两年以来，受损的福岛核电站很可能一直在向海洋中泄漏被污染的水。
In unusually candid comments, Shunichi Tanaka, the head of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, also said that neither his staff nor the plant’s operator knew exactly where the leaks were coming from, or how to stop them.
原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)的主席田中俊一(Shunichi Tanaka)在这番异常坦率的言论中还说，他的员工和发电厂的运营商都不知道泄漏的具体来源和具体的阻止方法。
The operator, Tokyo Electric Power, has reported spikes in the amounts of radioactive cesium, tritium and strontium detected in groundwater at the plant, adding urgency to the task of sealing any leaks. Radioactive cesium and strontium, especially, are known to raise risks of cancer in humans.
东京电力公司(Tokyo Electric Power)报称在核电站的地下水中检测到了数量异常的放射性元素铯、氚和锶，堵漏的任务由此变得更加紧迫。特别是放射性元素铯和锶已知会提高人类患癌症的风险。
Mr. Tanaka’s comments bring into sharp relief the precariousness of the cleanup at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, where core meltdowns occurred at three of the six reactors. A critical problem has been the groundwater that has been pouring into the basements of the damaged reactor buildings and becoming contaminated. Workers have been pumping the water out to be stored in dozens of tanks at the plant, but have not stopped the inflow.
田中俊一的言论清晰地显示了福岛第一核电站清理工作的不安全性，该核电站六个反应堆中的三个发生了堆芯熔化。一个关键性问题是，地下水一直在涌入受损反应堆建筑的地下室，随即遭到污染。工人们一直在用泵把水排出，并储存在核电厂的几十个水柜中，但却未能阻止地下水继续流入。
Until recently, Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, flatly denied that any of that water was leaking into the ocean, even though various independent studies of radiation levels in the nearby ocean have suggested otherwise. In recent days, Tepco has retreated to saying that it was not sure whether there was a leak into the ocean.
直到近期，东京电力一直断然否认有任何污染水泄漏到了海洋中，尽管多项独立研究显示，附近海域的辐射水平表明情况与他们所说的不同。最近几天，东京电力有所让步，称不确定是否有污染水泄漏到海洋中。
Mr. Tanaka said that the evidence was overwhelming.
田中俊一说，相关证据是压倒性的。
“We’ve seen for a fact that levels of radioactivity in the seawater remain high, and contamination continues — I don’t think anyone can deny that,” he said Wednesday at a briefing after a meeting of the authority’s top regulators. “We must take action as soon as possible.
“我们已经看到了一个事实，海水中的放射性水平一直很高，而且污染还在继续，我想任何人也否认不了这一点，”周三，他在该机构顶级监管者会议之后的一次新闻发布会上说。“我们必须尽快采取行动。”
“That said, considering the state of the plant, it’s difficult to find a solution today or tomorrow,” he added. “That’s probably not satisfactory to many of you. But that’s the reality we face after an accident like this.”
“尽管如此，考虑到该核电站的情况，很难在一两天之内找到解决方案，”他补充说。“这多半会令你们中的许多人不满意。然而，这就是我们在遇到这样一次事故之后必须面对的现实。”
By acknowledging that the Fukushima Daiichi plant is not watertight, Mr. Tanaka confirmed suspicions held by experts that the plant has continued to leak radiation into the ocean long after the huge initial releases seen in the disaster’s early days.
田中俊一承认福岛第一核电站并非不透水，由此证实了专家的怀疑，亦即灾难初期的大规模泄漏结束之后，核电站一直在向海洋中泄漏放射性物质。
A study released earlier this year by Jota Kanda, an oceanographer at the Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology, examined Tepco’s own readings of radiation levels in the waters near the plant’s oceanfront site. The study concluded that it was highly likely the plant was leaking.
今年早些时候，东京海洋大学(Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology)海洋学家神田穰太(Jota Kanda)发表了一份研究，分析了东京电力自己公布的核电站附近海域的辐射水平读数。该研究得出结论称，这极有可能是因为核电站正在泄漏。
“If there was no leak, we would see far lower levels of radioactive cesium in waters off the plant,” Professor Kanda said last month. He said that natural tidal flushing of the water in the plant’s harbor should have dispersed the initially released radioactivity by now, with a far more rapid drop in radiation levels than had been detected.
上月，神田穰太说，“如果没有泄漏，核电站附近的水域的放射性铯水平就应该低得多。”他说，到现在，核电站所处海湾的自然潮汐应该早已冲散了最初释放的放射性物质，放射性物质水平下降的速度也应该比检测到的速度快得多。
“This suggests that water might be leaking out from the plant through damaged pipes or drains, or other routes Tepco doesn’t know about,” he said. “We need to find out where exactly these leaks are, and plug them.”
他说，“这说明，污水流出核电站的途径可能是受损管道、下水道或其他什么东京电力公司不知道的途径。我们需要找出泄漏的确切位置，然后堵住它们。”
Unexplained spikes since May in cesium levels detected in groundwater, coupled with higher strontium and tritium readings off shore, have added to the urgency.
自5月以来，检测到的地下水铯含量出现了原因不明的激增，再加上近岸处的锶及氚水平也有升高，使得情况变得更加紧迫。
Tepco said Wednesday that it was not sure that any contaminated water was reaching the ocean. It has said in the past that the stricken plant was now having “no significant impact” on the marine environment.
周三，东京电力公司称，公司不能确定有没有污水进入海洋。公司此前曾说，受灾的核电站如今对海洋环境“没有太大影响”。
“We can’t say anything for sure,” Noriyuki Imaizumi, a Tepco spokesman, said Wednesday at a news conference in Tokyo. “But we aren’t just sitting back. We are first analyzing why there have been high radiation measurements in recent weeks.”
东京电力公司发言人今泉记之（Noriyuki Imaizumi，音译）说，“现在还下不了任何定论。但我们绝不会坐视不理。过去几周，我们第一个开始分析，为什么会有那么高的放射性物质水平。”
The struggle to seal the plant has raised questions about the government’s push to restart Japan’s other nuclear power stations, which were shut down in the wake of the Fukushima disaster. Some critics have said that the work of certifying and reopening other plants will distract from the cleanup at Fukushima. To allay public fears, the government has promised that restarts will be authorized only for reactors that pass rigid new standards that took effect this month.
密封该核电站的努力，使人质疑日本政府不该推动在福岛事件之后关闭的其他核电站重启。一些批评人士称，认证并重启其他核电站将会分散人们对福岛核电站清理工作的注意力。为缓解公众的恐惧，政府承诺只允许那些通过严格新标准的核反应堆重启。这些新标准将于本月生效。 Four utilities across Japan have applied to restart a total of 10 reactors, applications that must now be assessed by the nuclear regulator with a staff of just 80 people. Tokyo Electric has said that it intends to apply to restart two of the seven reactors at a power plant on the coast of the Sea of Japan. That workload may leave the agency with few resources to devote to monitoring the messy cleanup at Fukushima.
日本全国已有四家核电站申请重启共10座反应堆。核监管机构现在必须依靠仅有80人的团队来评估这些申请。东京电力公司称，公司有意申请重开日本海海岸一座核电厂七座核反应堆中的两座。这样的工作量可能使监管机构没有余力来监管福岛核电站的棘手清理工作。
Tepco has taken some measures in the hope of keeping contaminated groundwater away from the sea, including fortifying an underwater wall that runs along much of the shoreline at the plant site. Mr. Tanaka said it was doubtful whether those measures would be effective.
东京电力公司已经采取了一些措施，旨在使已被污染的地下水远离海洋，包括加固环绕该核电站附近大部分海岸线的地下水墙。田中俊一称，这些方法的有效性尚存疑问。
“We don’t truly know whether that will work,” Mr. Tanaka said. “Of course, we’d hope to eliminate all leaks, but in this situation, all we can hope for is to minimize the impact on the environment. If you have any better ideas, we’d like to know.”
田中俊一说，“我们并不真正知道这些方法是否有效。当然，我们希望堵住所有泄漏，但是，在这种情况下，我们能希望的只是尽量减小泄漏对环境的影响。如果你有什么更好的方法，我们洗耳恭听。”