Tons of contaminated groundwater from the stricken Fukushima nuclear plant have overwhelmed an underground barrier and are emptying daily into the Pacific, creating what a top regulator has called a crisis.
来自受损的福岛核电站的大量被污染地下水已经没过了一个地下屏障，每天倾入太平洋，一位高层监管人员称这为一场危机。
The water contains strontium — a particularly dangerous isotope if it gets into the food chain — as well as cesium and tritium, which are considered less dangerous when released into the ocean. Despite increasing alarm among regulators in recent weeks, the plant’s operator says it does not yet pose a health threat because levels of the contaminants are still very low in the open ocean, beyond the plant’s man-made harbor — a contention even critics support.
水中含有锶，这种放射性同位素一旦进入食物链就会产生很大危害，此外还有铯和氚，这两种物质排入海水中的危害较小。尽管监管人员最近几周对此越来越担心，但核电站运营方却说这尚未对健康构成威胁，因为在电厂人工港之外的开放海域内，污染物含量仍然非常低，这一观点连批评人士都是认可的。
But regulators and critics alike are worried because the company, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, has been unable to stop the flow of the contaminated water, which appears to have started between December and May. The company has also not yet conclusively identified the source of the contamination, compounding fears.
但监管机构和批评人士都表示担心，因为东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）还没能阻止污染水的流出，这些污染水似乎从去年12月到5月间就已开始出现。而且，东电还没能最终确定污染源头，这加剧了恐惧。
“Tepco lacks a sufficient sense of urgency for this crisis,” Shinji Kinjo, a high-level official at the country’s nuclear regulatory watchdog, said Tuesday in an interview.
“对于这次危机，东电缺乏足够的紧迫感，”日本核监管机构高级官员金城慎司(Shinji Kinjo)在周二的采访中说。
The plant was already struggling to store hundreds of thousands of tons of contaminated water that flowed through the buildings housing three reactors where meltdowns occurred in 2011. But the contamination in this new groundwater problem is from different sources, Tepco said.
核电厂已经因为存储数十万吨污染水而不堪重负，这些水流经了在2011年出现堆芯熔毁的三个反应堆所在的建筑。不过东电表示，新出现的地下水污染来自不同的源头。
The releases of information in recent days on the latest problem followed a familiar pattern, with the company providing very technical data in bits and pieces without context, making it difficult to judge its significance.
近日来东电发布信息是遵循一定套路的，提供一些非常技术性的数据，零零碎碎、没有任何背景可供参考，让人很难判断其重要性。
Tepco had said that the groundwater, which flows downhill from mountains behind the plant and into the sea, had remained relatively clean even after the accident because it is so deep, several yards below the surface. But in May the company reported detecting a sharp increase in the amounts of radioactive tritium in groundwater beneath the plant.
东电曾表示，地下水从核电站背后的山上流下来，进入大海，因为深达几码，所以即便是在事故发生后也还相对干净。但在5月，东电称它发现核电站下地下水中的放射性氚含量大幅增加。
Tepco now says the groundwater is emptying into the plant’s man-made harbor at a rate of 400 tons a day — enough to fill an Olympic swimming pool every week. While the company did not specifically say how much of the water was contaminated, it offered a calculation for the amount of tritium being released that assumed all of the water was contaminated.
东电现在表示，地下水正在以每天400吨的速度灌入核电站的人工港，足够每周填满一座奥林匹克泳池。虽然公司没有具体说明有多少水被污染，但却算出了假设所有的水都被污染的情况下将释放多少氚元素。
To halt the flow of contaminated water, Tepco built an underground barrier along the shoreline in front of one damaged reactor in June by injecting chemicals into the soil to harden it. But the operator has told regulators that it believes the barrier failed to stop the water, instead acting as a dam that pooled the contaminated underground water behind it until it flowed over the top of the barrier toward the sea. Mr. Kinjo, the regulator, warned that if the water kept rising, it could soon come to the surface, increasing hazards for the plant’s already hard-pressed workers.
为了阻挡污染水的流动，东电6月份在一座受损的反应堆建筑前，沿着海岸线，通过在土壤内注入化学物质使其硬化，建立起一道地下屏障。但该公司已经告诉监管当局，它认为屏障未能阻挡水流，只是形成了一个大坝，在污水漫过屏障流入大海之前，将它们集中在一起而已。监管人员金城慎司警告说，如果水位继续上涨，可能很快就会溢到地表，对电厂那些处境已经很危险中的工人来说，这会增加他们可能承受的风险。
The company has admitted that it failed to respond quickly enough to the latest groundwater contamination, saying it was preoccupied with more pressing issues like cooling the damaged reactors.
东电承认它未能对最近的地下水污染作出足够快的反应，原因是它一直在集中注意力解决包括冷却损毁反应堆在内的更紧迫的问题。
“Tepco appears overwhelmed in dealing with what is a very serious problem,” said Akio Yamamoto, a professor of nuclear engineering at Nagoya University, who serves as outside expert for the Nuclear Regulation Authority, Japan’s nuclear watchdog. “It cannot do everything on its own.”
“在这个非常严重的问题面前，东电看来已经应付不过来了，”名古屋大学(Nagoya University)核工程学教授山本章夫(Akio Yamamoto)说。“它无法独自处理好所有事情。”山本章夫也是日本核监管机构原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)的一名外部专家。
Mr. Yamamoto and other experts agree with Tepco’s assessment that the amounts of radiation being released into the Pacific have been too small to pose a risk to human health. Still, some critics contend that the plant has emitted far more radioactive materials than it is saying, based in part on levels of contaminants discovered in the harbor, which are well above safe levels in some places.
根据东电的判断，正在释放到太平洋的辐射量还非常少，不足以对人体健康构成任何威胁，对此山本章夫和其他一些专家是认可的。但一些批评人士争辩说，电站已释放的放射性物质远比它所称的要多，这一结论一定程度上来自于在人工港所发现的污染物含量，其中某些地方已远超安全水平。
Regulators said they were waiting for Tepco to take additional steps to slow the flow of contaminated groundwater into the sea. These include construction of more chemical barriers as well as pumping out about 100 tons per day of the water to keep it from overflowing the barriers. This, however, will create a new problem, as the water must then be stored on the grounds of a plant that is already crowded with more than 1,000 large tanks filled with contaminated water siphoned from the reactor buildings.
监管人员说，他们正在等待东电采取更多措施，减慢受污染地下水流入太平洋的速度。这包括建造更多化学屏障，并每天泵出约100吨水，以避免废水漫过屏障。然而，这又会带来一个新问题，因为这些废水必须存储在电站地面区域内，但这里已经摆满了1000多个大罐，装满了从反应堆中抽出的废水。
Mr. Kinjo, a director in the office overseeing the response to the Fukushima accident at the nuclear authority, said that the levels of contamination in the water that had collected in the reactor buildings was too low to account for the radiation levels seen in the groundwater now flowing into the ocean, so the water at the reactors was unlikely to be the source of the latest leaks.
金城慎司是原子能管制委员会监管福岛事故应对的部门负责人，他说，从反应堆收集的废水污染含量很低，无法解释如今流入太平洋的地下水中的高辐射含量，所以反应堆中的水不太可能是最近泄漏的源头。
The most likely source appears to be pools of highly radioactive water that collected in the plant’s maze of underground conduits after a large leak of water from near the overheating reactors in April 2011, a few weeks after the accident. Last week, Tepco said water in one such conduit near the No. 2 reactor contained 1.6 billion becquerels per liter of radioactive cesium 137, far above the safe level of 90 becquerels per liter.
最有可能的来源现在看来是储存高放射性废水的水池，这些废水于2011年4月收集自电站错综复杂的地下管线，当时事故刚刚过去几周，过热反应堆附近的管道出现大量泄漏。上周，东电表示，在二号反应堆附近的这样一个管道中，每升水中放射性铯-137的含量为16亿贝可勒尔，这远远超过了每升90贝可勒尔的安全水平。
Tepco estimates that about 50 billion becquerels of tritium are currently flowing into the sea every day, or almost exactly the same amount that regulators would allow a normally functioning plant to emit daily, along with smaller amounts of strontium and cesium. That is far less than the amount of radioactive material that spilled into the ocean in the April 2011 leak, but experts note that the current contamination is continuing and that no one knows how or when it will end.
东电估计，现在每天流入大海的氚元素的量约为500亿贝可勒尔，这差不多相当于监管机构允许正常运转的电站每天的排出量，此外还有较少量的锶和铯。相比较2011年4月泄漏时溢入大海的大量放射性物质来说，这要少得多，但专家们也指出，当前的污染还在继续，没人知道如何、或何时会停止。
An American expert, Kathryn A. Higley, the head of the department of nuclear engineering and radiation health physics at Oregon State University, said that the amount cited by Tepco was “small potatoes” in absolute terms and in relation to what was released early in the accident.
美国专家、俄勒冈州立大学(Oregon State University)核工程与核辐射保健物理学系主任凯瑟琳·A·希格利(Kathryn A. Higley)说，东电所说的量从绝对值上，以及与早先事故中所泄漏的量相比，都是“微不足道的。”
While the reactors’ maze of pipes and ducts were sealed shut with concrete to prevent leaks, some highly contaminated water may now be seeping through cracks in the conduits and out via a layer of gravel, Mr. Kinjo said. From there, it may be spreading into the soil and mixing with the groundwater. Mr. Kinjo and others said the problem might have surfaced only recently because of the time it took the seepage to reach the groundwater. The first sign of trouble came on May 22, when Tepco found that groundwater at a spot between one damaged reactor and the sea contained a half-million becquerels per liter of tritium, a radioactive isotope of hydrogen — about 10 times the safe level. The water also contained high levels of strontium, an element that causes cancer and other health problems in humans because it is absorbed into the bones.
金城慎司说，虽然反应堆中错综复杂的管线都已经用混凝土封住以避免泄漏，但一些高辐射的废水如今可能正通过管线上的缝隙渗出，再透过一层砂砾流出。从这里，它再会扩散到土壤中，与地下水混合。金城慎司和其他人表示，这个问题只是最近才表现出来，可能是因为渗漏进入地下水需要一定时间。问题第一次显现是在5月22日，当时东电发现，在破损的反应堆和大海之间，有一处地下水每升中含有50万贝可勒尔的氚，这大约是安全水平的10倍。氚是氢的放射性同位素。这些水还含有大量的锶，这种元素由于能被骨头所吸收，会引发癌症和人体的其他健康问题。
Since then, Mr. Kinjo said, the contamination appears to be spreading, with tests last month by Tepco showing high levels of tritium and other radioactive elements like strontium starting at other locations near the two other crippled reactors.
金城慎司说，自从那时起，污染似乎就一直在扩散。东电上个月的测试发现，在其他两座被毁反应堆附近的一些地点，开始出现大量的氚和锶等放射性元素。