TOKYO — The operator of the crippled Fukushima Daiichi power plant on Monday began removing nuclear fuel assemblies from a storage pool atop one of the site’s blown-out reactor buildings, a delicate yet critical operation that could help reduce risks at the plant.
东京——周一，受损的福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)工作人员开始转移一座报废反应堆建筑顶部一个燃料池里的燃料棒。这项棘手却关键的任务将有助于降低核电站的风险。
The Tokyo Electric Power Company released frequent updates about its progress on Monday, when it extracted four of the 1,533 fuel assemblies that lie in a pool of water at the plant’s No. 4 reactor.
周一，东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）就其工作进展频繁发布最新消息。核电站4号反应堆的那个水池中共有1533根燃料棒，公司当时取出了四根。
That reactor, along with three others, was heavily damaged by hydrogen explosions in the early days of the accident, triggered by the enormous earthquake and tsunami of March 2011.
这个反应堆和其他三个反应堆都在事故早期的氢爆中受到了重创。那次事故由2011年3月的大地震和海啸引发。
The state of the No. 4 reactor has been a particular concern because all the fuel at the unit, which was shut down for checks when the crisis hit, lies inside a spent-fuel pool that is perched on the damaged reactor’s upper floors. Experts had warned that leaving the fuel assemblies atop a structurally compromised building was extremely dangerous.
4号反应堆的状况之所以尤其令人担心，是因为那里的所有燃料都放在受损反应堆顶层的一个乏燃料池内。工作人员在灾难发生时关闭了该反应堆。专家警告称，把燃料棒留在一个结构受损的建筑顶上非常危险。
Over the past months, Tepco has focused on devising a plan to place the fuel assemblies in a steel cask, which will be lifted out of the water and transported by trailer to a more secure fuel pool on the ground. To prevent the nuclear fuel assemblies from overheating, engineers must keep them covered with water.
过去几个月，东电关注的重点是设计一个计划，把燃料棒放进一个钢桶，然后把桶从水里吊出来，再用拖车把它运到地面上更加安全的燃料池里。为了防止核燃料棒过热，工程师必须让它们一直待在水里。
On Monday morning, workers carefully lowered the cask into the spent fuel pool. They then used a crane to extract the first fuel assembly from racks inside the pool and transferred the assembly into the cask. By Tuesday, engineers will transfer 21 more fuel assemblies into the cask before they lift it out of the water and onto a trailer.
周一上午，工作人员小心翼翼地把桶放进了废料池。然后，他们用吊车从池里的架子上取出了第一根燃料棒，然后把它放到了桶里。周二，工程师将把另外21根燃料棒放入桶内，然后把桶从水里吊出来，装上拖车。
Naomi Hirose, the president of Tepco, called the start of the work at the No. 4 unit a milestone in a cleanup and decommissioning process that is expected to take decades. Tepco hopes to finish removing fuel from the No. 4 reactor pool by the end of next year.
东电总裁广濑直己(Naomi Hirose)称，4号反应堆清理工作的开始是清理及报废过程的一个里程碑，这个过程预计将持续数十年。东电希望在明年年底前结束4号反应堆燃料池的清理工作。
“The extraction process represents the beginning of a new and important chapter in our work,” Mr. Hirose said in a statement.
广濑直己在一份声明中表示，“燃料棒取出过程表明我们的工作揭开了一个重要的新篇章。”
But Japan’s nuclear regulator has pointed out that the process also poses some risks. If damaged or left uncovered, the fuel assemblies could overheat or emit large amounts of radiation. Another difficulty is that engineers could have trouble extracting the fuel assemblies from storage racks in the pool, which is strewn with debris that might cause some assemblies to jam.
但日本的核管理机构指出，这个过程也会带来一些风险。如果受损或暴露，这些燃料棒可能会过热，或释放大量辐射。另一个难题是工程师很难从燃料池的存放架上取出燃料棒，因为燃料池里布满碎片，可能会导致一些燃料棒被卡住。
Lake Barrett, a former United States nuclear regulator involved with the cleanup after the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island in 1979, said he had been invited by Tepco to review its contingency plans and found them thorough. Even if assemblies got jammed, for example, Tepco engineers could ultimately use underwater cutters to free them, he said in a telephone interview.
前美国核监管人员莱克·巴雷特(Lake Barrett)曾参与1979年三里岛(Three-Miles Island)核事故的清理工作，他表示，他受东电邀请检查了该公司的应急计划，发现这些计划非常周密。他在电话采访中说，比如，即便燃料棒卡住了，东电的工程师仍然能够使用水下切割设备解脱燃料棒。
“I’m not trivializing what is an important operation. And yes, there’s small debris on top. Several of the assemblies will probably get stuck,” he said. “But it can be dealt with. The technological safety risk of moving the fuel is very, very low, and I believe they’re ready to go.”
“我没有低估这个重要操作的难度。是的，燃料池上面有些小碎片。有些燃料棒可能会被卡住，”他说。“但这个问题可以处理。转移燃料的技术安全风险非常，非常低，我认为，他们已经做好了转移的准备。”