TOKYO — Three hundred tons of highly contaminated water have leaked from a storage tank at the ravaged Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant on Japan’s Pacific Coast, its operator said on Tuesday, raising further concerns over the site’s safety and prompting regulators to declare a radiological release incident for the first time since disaster struck there in 2011.
东京——周二，福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant)的运营商称，这个位于日本太平洋沿岸的受损核电站的一个储水箱流出了300吨高浓度污水，这引发了对该电站安全的更多担忧，也迫使监管机构宣布发生了放射性泄漏事故，这尚属2011年灾难降临该电站后的首次。
Workers raced to place sandbags around the leak at the site to stem the spread of the water, a task made more urgent by a forecast of heavy rain for the Fukushima region later in the day. A spokesman at Tokyo Electric Power, the plant’s operator, acknowledged that much of the contaminated water had seeped into the soil and could eventually reach the ocean, adding to the tons of radioactive fluids that have already leaked into the sea from the troubled plant.
工作人员匆匆忙忙地把沙袋放在电站发生泄漏的地方，以防止污水蔓延。因为预测当天晚些时候福岛地区会有大雨，这项工作变得更加紧迫。电站运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power，简称东电）发言人承认，大量污水已经渗进了土壤，可能最终会流入大海。此前，已有大量放射性液体从这家深陷困境的电站流入海洋。
The leaked water contains levels of radioactive cesium and strontium many hundreds of times higher than legal safety limits, Tokyo Electric said. Exposure to either element is known to increase the risk of cancer.
该公司称，泄漏的水中放射性铯和锶的含量高出法律规定的安全标准几百倍。据知，接触其中任何一种物质都会增加患癌的风险。
The company said it had not determined the source of the leak.
东电公司称尚未查明泄漏的源头。
“We must prevent the contaminated water from dispersing further due to rain and are piling up more sandbags,” said Masayuki Ono, a spokesman for the operator, also known as Tepco. But he also said much of the water has been absorbed into the soil, and workers would need to try to remove some of the soil using shovel cars and other heavy machinery.
“我们必须防止污水因下雨而进一步蔓延，因此正在堆积更多沙袋，”东电发言人尾野昌之(Masayuki Ono)说。但他也表示，很多水已经渗入土壤，工作人员需要尝试用推土机等重型机械移除部分土壤。
Tepco has acknowledged in recent weeks that leaks of radioactive runoff at the site, about 150 miles north of Tokyo, are at crisis levels. The runoff comes from cooling water that workers are pumping into the damaged cores of the site’s three most damaged reactors, as well as from groundwater pouring into the breached basements of those reactors.
东电在最近几周承认，位于东京以北约150英里（约合240公里）的福岛第一核电站泄漏的放射性径流处于会造成危机的水平。径流来自工作人员泵入核电站三个受损最严重反应堆的熔毁堆芯的冷却水，以及涌入这些反应堆受损地下室的地下水。
Some of that runoff has been seeping into the ocean since the accident at the site in 2011, triggered by a powerful earthquake and a 14-meter tsunami. To reduce the leaks, Tepco has started pumping out some of the contaminated water and storing it in almost 1,000 large tanks it has built on the debris-strewn site.
自2011年核电站发生事故后，这些径流中已经有一部分渗进了海洋。当时的那场事故是由一场大地震和高达14米的海啸引发的。为了减少径流泄漏，东电已经开始泵出部分污水，将其储存在近1000个大水箱中。这些水箱就建在一片狼藉的事故现场。
Tepco hopes to start cleansing the water using an elaborate filtering system and start releasing low-level contaminated water into the ocean. Those plans have been delayed by technical problems and protests from local fishermen.
东电希望用一个精密的过滤系统净化污水，并把低浓度污水排进大海。但因为技术问题和当地渔民的抗议，这些计划已被推迟。
Desperate for options, Japan’s nuclear regulator has suggested surrounding the plant with a huge underground ice wall to stem any leaks. That plan has its own drawbacks, however, and would require huge amounts of electricity almost indefinitely.
急于找到解决方案的日本原子能监管机构提议，在核电厂四周建造一堵巨型地下冰墙，以阻止任何泄漏的发生。不过，这一方案存在瑕疵，而且几乎要永久性地耗费巨大的电量。
The latest leak comes from one of the site’s 1,000 tanks, about 500 yards inland, Tepco said. Workers discovered puddles of radioactive water near the tank on Monday. Further checks revealed that the 1,000-ton capacity vessel, thought to be nearly full, only contained 700 tons, with the remainder having almost certainly leaked out.
东电称，最新的泄漏来自核电站所在地1000个水箱中的一个，距离海边约500码（约合460米）。本周一的时候，工人们发现该水箱附近有放射性水洼。进一步的核查显示，可以容纳1000吨水的箱体本应几近全满，但实际上只装有700吨水，其余部分几乎可以肯定已经泄漏出去。
There had been concerns raised among some experts over the durability of the tanks. Mr. Ono said that Tepco had assumed the tanks would last at least five years, but the latest leak comes less than two years after the company started installing the storage vessels at the site to deal with the growing amounts of runoff.
有些专家一直对水箱的耐久性有所担心。尾野昌之表示，东电之前的构想是这些水箱至少可以维持五年。不过，这次泄漏距离东电开始安装储水箱还不足两年，而就地安装水箱的目的是处理日益增大的径流量。
“It is going to be very difficult and dangerous for Tepco to keep on storing all this water,” said Hiroshi Miyano, an expert in nuclear system design at Hosei University in Tokyo. He said, for example, that another strong earthquake or tsunami could destroy the tanks and lead to a huge spill.
东京法政大学(Hosei University)的核系统设计专家宫野广(Hiroshi Miyano)称，“东电继续存储这些水的话，会变得非常困难和危险。”他说，例如，如果再来一场强震或海啸的话，可能会摧毁这些水箱并导致巨大泄漏事故。
At some point, Tepco will have no choice but to start releasing some of the water into the ocean after cleaning it, Dr. Miyano said. The continued mishaps at the site have heightened public scrutiny of Tepco and made it more difficult to build public consensus around any release of water, he said.
宫野博士表示，到某个时间点，东电将别无选择，只能在净化之后将部分水排放到海里。他还表示，现场麻烦不断，使得民众对东电的审视进一步加强，并让公众难以在任何排水计划上达成共识。
“That just makes the problem worse, with no viable solution,” he said.
“这只会使问题变得更糟，什么可行的解决办法也没有，”他说。
The Nuclear Regulation Authority described the leak as a Level 1 incident, the lowest level, on a global scale that rates radiological releases. This was the first time that Japan had declared a radiological event since earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, which was rated at Level 7, the highest on that scale and on par with the 1986 accident at Chernobyl.
原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)称，本次泄漏为1级事故，根据放射性泄漏的国际评级标准，属最低级别。2011年3月的地震与海啸所引发的泄漏事故被评为7级，属最高级别，与1986年的切尔诺贝利事故同级。自那以后，本次泄漏是日本首次宣布发生放射性事件。
In a statement, the regulator ordered Tepco to do its utmost to identify the exact source of the leak, to step up radiation monitoring at the site and to remove contaminated soil. Tepco said it would do its best to comply.
该监管机构在其声明中指示东电竭尽全力找到泄漏的确切来源、加强现场的辐射监测，并移除受污土壤。东电回应，将全力以赴予以执行。