SINGAPORE — Like good wines, teas are a reflection of their “terroir,” the geology, climate and geography of their origin.
新加坡——就像好酒一样，茶叶也能反映出其原产地的“土壤条件”(terroir)、地质条件、气候条件和地理位置。
Yin Zhen, the rarest of white teas, is produced only in China’s Fujian Province and for centuries was reserved for the pleasure of the inner circles of the imperial court.
白茶中最珍贵的银针仅产于中国福建省，几百年来仅供皇家享用。
In post-imperial times it has become established as a favored brew among tea connoisseurs who appreciate its delicate flavor, though it has remained largely ignored by a general public used to stronger tastes.
在现代社会，能欣赏其清淡口味的茶叶鉴赏家们也青睐这种茶，但是普通大众更习惯喝气味更浓郁的茶，所以常常把它忽视。
That, however, is changing. Spurred by marketing that exalts the perceived health benefits of white teas and by new blends that add flowers, fruits and spices for a richer experience, more consumers are now seeking out the higher graded white teas, despite — or maybe in part because of — their high price.
但是，这种情况正在改变。生产者在营销宣传时特别强调白茶已为人所知的保健功效；加工时则加入花瓣、水果和香料，使之具有更丰富的口感；因此，越来越多的顾客在追捧更高等级的白茶，尽管它价格昂贵，不过它昂贵的价格也许正是吸引顾客的原因之一。
Yin Zhen can retail for 60 Singapore dollars, or $49, for 50 grams, or 1.76 ounces, compared with 11 dollars for the more common Pai Mu Tan white tea or 43 dollars for the finest first flush Darjeeling black tea, said Taha Bouqdib, president of TWG Tea, an international tea company based in Singapore.
新加坡国际茶业公司TWG Tea的总裁塔哈·布克迪布(Taha Bouqdib)说，银针的零售价是每50克（1.76盎司）60新加坡元（49美元），而更普通的白牡丹白茶是11新加坡元，顶级大吉岭(Darjeeling)红茶初摘茶是43新加坡元。
Yet the company has sold about three tons of white teas so far this year through its retail outlets in Asia, the Middle East, Britain and the United States, up almost 60 percent compared with last year, Mr. Bouqdib said.
布克迪布先生说，今年到目前为止，该公司已经通过其在亚洲、中东、英国和美国的零售店卖出了约3吨白茶，比去年增长了约60%。
“This is due entirely to the launch, in April, of our Yin Zhen white tea blends,” he said, sipping a white Earl Grey recently in one of the company’s tea salons. “These teas are appreciated not just by purists, but by a much wider clientele now.”
“这完全归功于今年4月我们推出的银针混合茶，”在该公司最近举行的一次茶叶沙龙上，他品了一口“白伯爵茶”，说道，“不只是纯粹主义者喜欢这些茶叶，现在喜欢这些茶叶的人，范围大了很多。”
In the same time that white tea sales rose 60 percent, the company’s sales of black tea rose only 10 percent and those of green tea just 2 percent, he said.
他说，在白茶销售上涨60%的同一时期，该公司的红茶销售仅增长了10%，绿茶仅增长了2%。
Still, white tea — so called for the fine, silvery-white hairs on the young leaf buds — remains only a small part of the company’s sales, which totaled about 680 tons last year, and is likely to stay so, given its limited production.
白茶取自嫩叶的芽尖，因芽尖上银白色的细小茸毛而得名。这家公司去年共销售了约680吨茶叶，所以白茶仍然只占了其中一小部分；以后大致也是如此，因为白茶的产量有限。
Other companies are also reporting increased white tea sales.
其他公司也称白茶的销量在上升。
“We believe a key factor of the success of white tea in general is that it meets high-end consumers’ fascination for luxury goods and new experiences,” Franck Dessain, a director of the Paris-based Mariage Frères, said in an e-mail. “Because such tea is rare, it has become a status symbol.”
“我们认为白茶总体畅销的一个主要原因是它迎合了高端顾客对奢侈品和新体验的痴迷，”巴黎“玛黑兄弟”(Mariage Frères)茶叶公司的主管弗兰克·迪赛恩(Franck Dessain)在接受电子邮件采访时这样说，“因为这种茶叶非常罕见，所以它成了一种地位的象征。”
“There is no doubt that Yin Zhen is the lead product, but every single white tea takes profit from the status and prestige of Yin Zhen and then is considered a top luxury product,” he said.
“银针无疑是其中最珍贵的，但是每一片白茶都得益于银针的地位和声望，被认为是顶级奢侈品，”他说。
Green, black, blue, white and yellow teas all come from one of two tea plant varieties: the Camellia sinensis — a small-leaf tea plant that thrives in cool, mountain regions of central China and Japan — and the Camellia assamica — a broad-leaf variety that grows best in the moist, tropical climates of North-east India and China.
绿色、黑色、蓝色、白色和黄色的茶叶都来自于两种茶树：小叶茶树(Camellia sinensis)在中国中部和日本凉爽的山区长势最好；大叶茶树(Camellia assamica)在印度东北部和中国潮湿的热带气候中长得最好。
Processing after the harvest determines the type of tea produced.
采摘之后的加工过程决定了茶叶的种类。
Leaves can be steamed, roasted, semi-fermented or fully fermented.
茶叶的加工方法包括蒸、焙、半发酵和完全发酵。
White tea is the least processed of all the teas and is produced from the buds of the Camellia sinensis shrub, picked before they have fully opened. Young, and barely oxidized in the processing, the leaves retain a high concentration of anti-oxidants: in the last 10 years, a string of research papers has asserted that white tea may have health benefits in helping to reduce cancer and heart disease risks, and fighting the effects of aging.
白茶是所有茶叶中加工最少的一种；白茶采自小叶灌木茶树的芽尖，在尚未完全长开之前就采摘了下来。茶叶非常嫩，加工过程中基本没有被氧化，所以茶叶中保留着高浓度的抗氧化剂：在过去十年里，一长串的研究报告宣称，白茶可能具有保健功效，能防癌，预防心脏病，延缓衰老。
For purists, Yin Zhen, harvested only in a period of a few days in the year, when the buds are at their finest, and sun-dried, has no equal.
银针是在芽尖最鲜嫩的时候采摘的，一年中也就那么几天；加工方法是置于阳光下晒干；所以对纯粹主义者来说，它是无与伦比的。
“Many countries can do white tea, but nothing compared to the quality that comes from Fujian,” Mr. Bouqdib said.
“很多国家能产白茶，但是质量都比不上福建产的，”布克迪布先生说。
François-Xavier Delmas, founder of the French company Le Palais des Thés, agreed: “There is only one source for real white tea — Fujian,” he said. “It is the birthplace of white tea.”
法国“茶叶宫殿”(Le Palais des Thés)公司的创始人弗朗索瓦-泽维尔·德尔马斯(François-Xavier Delmas)对此表示赞同：“真正的白茶只有一个产地，那就是福建，”他说，“那是白茶的诞生地。”
He added that in Darjeeling, in the Himalayan foothills of northeast India, “they say they make white tea but in fact it is not really that. They make a low-oxidized tea. It can be very good, but it is not white tea. The process is different.”
他补充说，在印度东北部喜马拉雅山麓的大吉岭，“那里的人说他们产白茶，但事实上并非如此。他们生产一种低氧化的茶。那种茶可能也很好喝，但它不是白茶。加工方法不同。”
Indian producers borrowed the white tea name “because they know buyers pay a good price for such teas, ” he said.
他说，印度生产者借用白茶的名义，“是因为他们知道买家愿意花大价钱买这种茶。”
Le Palais des Thés has been developing flavored white teas to capitalize on a growing demand among young people, particularly in Asia, Mr. Delmas added.
德尔马斯先生补充说，“茶叶宫殿”公司开发了各种口味的白茶，以满足年轻人，特别是亚洲年轻人，日益增长的需求。
The company uses Pai Mu Tan, another white tea from Fujian, for its floral and fruit perfumed blends. Mr. Delmas said it was “less subtle than the Yin Zhen,” and less prone to being overwhelmed in combinations with other ingredients.
该公司也用福建产的另一种白茶“白牡丹茶”制作花茶和果茶。德尔马斯先生说白牡丹茶“不像银针那么清淡”，在与其他原料混合时，它的味道不那么容易被冲淡。
TWG Tea has taken a different tack, however, with an extended collection of 15 blended Yin Zhen teas that include White Gold, blended with cider apple; White Secret, with passion fruit; White Fortune, with wild strawberry; and White Earl Grey, with bergamot.
TWG茶叶公司则采取了不同的方法，生产了一系列混合银针茶，共有15种，包括与苹果酒混合的“白金茶”(White Gold)，与西番莲混合的“白秘茶”(White Secret)，与野生草莓混合的“白福茶”(White Fortune)，以及与佛手柑混合的“白伯爵茶”(White Earl Grey)。
Mariage Frères also offers complex Yin Zhen blends: its Mountain of the Moon tea is mixed with leaves of peony, rose, and jasmine; Lacquer Pavilion has sweet spices and mallow flowers; and Tea after a Storm is flavored with mint and orange blossom.
“玛黑兄弟”茶叶公司也供应复杂的混合银针茶：“月亮山茶”(Mountain of the Moon)是与牡丹、玫瑰和茉莉花瓣混合的；“漆亭茶”(Lacquer Pavilion)含有甜味香料和锦葵花；“暴风雨后之茶”(Tea after a Storm)带有薄荷和香橙花的味道。