HONG KONG — General Motors now sells far more Buicks in China than in the United States, partly by playing on its history as the brand in which Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the founder of modern China, was chauffeured around.
香港 - 通用汽车(General Motors)在中国的别克汽车(Buicks)销量，要远超其美国本土。一部分原因是通用汽车所打的历史牌，即别克车曾经是现代中国之父孙中山的座驾。
It turns out, however, that the Ford Motor Company had a chance nearly 90 years ago to become Dr. Sun’s favorite brand — and missed it.
但是在将近90年前，福特汽车公司(Ford Motor Company)曾经有机会成为孙中山最中意的品牌——只可惜福特错过了这个机会。
Dr. Sun, a medical doctor and revolutionary who briefly became the first president of China in 1912, wrote to Henry Ford in 1924, in an exchange of letters released in Hong Kong by Ford Motor on Sunday night.
孙中山是一位医生和革命者。1912年，他曾经短暂出任过中国的第一任总统。周日晚间，福特汽车在香港公布的信件往来显示，孙中山曾经在1924年给亨利·福特(Henry Ford)写过信。
A top Nationalist Party official in southern China by then, Dr. Sun invited Mr. Ford to create an industrial empire in China even bigger than his operations in the United States, where Ford Motor was still the market leader.
这个时候，孙中山已经是中国南方的国民党最高领袖。他邀请福特来华投资，在中国建立一个比其美国产业更加庞大的工业帝国。此时，福特汽车仍然是美国汽车市场的领导者。
But an assistant in Mr. Ford’s office sent Dr. Sun a terse rejection, acknowledging receipt of the invitation but saying, “We desire to advise, however, that Mr. Ford has made no plans for visiting China in the very near future.”
但是福特办公室的一位助理发过来一封简短的回绝信，称来函收到，“但是，我们想要告诉您，福特先生并没有近期造访中国的计划。”
Dr. Sun spent many years of his youth in Hong Kong, attending medical school here and becoming deeply involved in organizing revolutionary activities. The territory was then a British colony, beyond the reach of imperial China’s law enforcement and intelligence apparatus. Britain returned Hong Kong to China in 1997.
年轻时代的孙中山曾经在香港度过数年的时光。他在这里就读医学院，并渐渐深入地投身于革命活动的组织工作中。当时的香港还是英国殖民地，清帝国的执法与情报机构鞭长莫及。1997年，英国将香港交还中国。
Ford Motor released copies of Dr. Sun’s correspondence from the archives of the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich., ahead of the company’s planned bid on Monday for regulatory approval to become a government-approved provider of taxis in Hong Kong.
福特汽车将孙中山的信函从位于密歇根州迪尔伯恩(Dearborn, Mich.)的亨利·福特博物馆中取出，并选在周一之前公布这些信函的复制品。该公司计划竞标成为香港政府指认的出租车供应商。周一，该公司将提出竞标，以获得监管许可。
The city has nearly 18,000 taxis, 98 percent of them supplied by Toyota, with Nissan providing virtually all of the rest. Ford Motor is trying to win approval of the Ford Transit Connect, a compact minivan manufactured in Valencia, Spain.
香港有近1.8万辆出租车，其中98%都由丰田公司(Toyota)提供，剩下的基本上都是由日产公司(Nissan)提供。福特公司正在争取获得政府对于福特全顺Connect (Ford Transit Connect)的批准。这是一种在西班牙瓦伦西亚生产的紧凑型商务车。
Ever since China’s civil war ended in 1949 with a Communist victory and the retreat of the Nationalists to Taiwan, one of the few points both sides could agree on was that Dr. Sun played a central role in the founding of modern China. Although Dr. Sun was a Nationalist, the Communists have also revered him as one of their intellectual forefathers.
1949年国共内战结束，共产党获得胜利，国民党败退台湾。此后，双方立场一致的地方很少，但是他们都认为，孙中山在建立现代中国的进程中扮演了关键角色。虽然孙中山是一位国民党人，但是共产党仍然对他尊敬有加，认为他是共产党在思想上的先行者之一。
Ford has bet heavily on the mainland Chinese market and is rapidly expanding there, but also continues to do well in Taiwan. Releasing the documents in Hong Kong, where Taiwanese and mainland Chinese officials sometimes meet secretly at a nearly neutral location, may allow Ford Motor to sidestep sometimes acrimonious arguments from both sides over who are the true modern political heirs to Dr. Sun.
福特向中国大陆投下了巨大的赌注，并在迅速扩张产能。同时，福特在台湾的发展也非常良好。中国大陆和台湾官员有时会在香港密会，这个会面地点相对中立。通过在香港发布这些文件，福特或将回避一个有时相当棘手的争议：国共双方中，究竟谁才是孙中山的现代政治继承人。
G.M. has thrived in China, thanks mainly to its Buick brand, which the company frequently ties to Dr. Sun in its marketing. G.M. shipped 71,002 Buicks to dealers in China last month — compared to only 15,623 Buicks in the United States.
通用汽车在中国大陆的事业蒸蒸日上，这主要归功于其别克品牌的表现。通用汽车经常在别克汽车的市场营销中提到孙中山。上个月，通用卖给中国经销商71002辆别克车，美国的同期数据仅为15623辆。
Ford Motor has lagged far behind in China, mainly because G.M. was ahead of most rivals in winning regulatory permission in 1997 to open a Buick assembly plant in Shanghai. Foreign entry into the Chinese auto market was still severely restricted then. G.M. relentlessly emphasized its connection to Dr. Sun at the time, portraying Buick as returning to a market where it had a big presence in the 1920s and 1930s. G.M. mentions less often that the preferred car of China’s last imperial ruler, Emperor Pu Yi, was also a Buick.
福特汽车在中国的发展，被通用汽车远远抛在后面。1997年，通用汽车就获得了政府许可，在上海开办了别克组装厂。借此，通用将绝大多数竞争对手甩在身后。当时，外商进入中国汽车市场受到非常严格的限制。但是通用汽车不断强调他们与孙中山之间的渊源，表示别克车在1920到1930年代的中国占有巨大的市场份额，而现在这个品牌只是重回中国而已。虽然中国的末代皇帝溥仪最喜欢的汽车也是别克，但是通用对于这一事实的宣传却少得多。
But Ford has begun catching up, with sales in China up 61 percent in September from a year earlier, compared to a gain of 14 percent for G.M.
福特已经开始奋起直追。9月份，其在华销量同比上升61%，而通用同期仅增长14%。
As for Dr. Sun’s letter, it may have been prophetic in warning that China needed help to address its weak economy, or else it could attract foreign intervention that would sow the seeds of another world war. Japan grabbed part of northeastern China in 1931 and a full-scale war began between China and Japan in 1937.
至于孙中山的信函，则相当有预见性。孙中山在信中警告说，中国需要外界帮助，以扶持其孱弱的经济。否则中国将会遭遇外界干预，从而埋下另一场世界大战的种子。1931年，日本占据了中国东北的部分地区。1937年，中日全面战争爆发。
The war set off a spiral of hostility in East Asia, with an American trade embargo against Japan followed by the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941. The bombing drew the United States into World War II and turned the Pacific into one of the theaters of that war.
这场战争导致了东亚局势的持续紧张，美国也开始对日本实施贸易禁运。此后在1941年，日本轰炸了珍珠港。这直接导致美国卷入第二次世界大战，而太平洋成为了这场大战的重要战场之一。
Ford has a negligible market share in Japan and no assembly plants there. In addition to the highly competitive auto factories that are already there, extensive regulations in Japan set unique standards for even mundane equipment like headlights. These nontariff trade barriers have made it largely uneconomical for international automakers to ship cars to Japan.
现在，福特在日本的市场份额可以忽略不计，他们在日本也没有组装厂。一方面，日本现有的各大车厂本身就很有竞争力，另一方面日本对于汽车的管制相当宽泛，就连对于车头灯这样普通的零配件都有独特的标准。对于国际汽车厂商而言，因为这些非关税贸易壁垒，出口汽车到日本显得非常不经济。