Kiana Hayeri has fond memories of her teenage years in Tehran — even if she had to dodge the morality police whenever she decided to wear a little more makeup or uncover her hair.
基安娜·哈耶里(Kiana Hayeri)十分怀念自己在德黑兰度过的青少年时光，虽然在那个时候，要是稍微化了点儿妆，或者是露出了头发，她就必须躲开风化警察。
But at 17, her family sent her to live in Toronto so that she could have better opportunities for college and a career. At an age when fitting in at school is important, Ms. Hayeri’s mastery of English was limited to “I don’t speak English.”
但是，她17岁的时候，她的家人把她送到了多伦多，好让她获得更好的大学教育和工作机会。在这个年纪，融入学校十分重要，然而，当时哈耶里会说的英语仅限于“我不会说英语”。
Ms. Hayeri, now 24, has spent the last three years documenting people very much like herself. Her first major project, “Your Veil Is a Battleground,” published last year on Lens, showed teenage girls in Tehran living dual lives — a proscribed one in public and another pushing limits and striving for personal freedoms in private. Her subjects were not necessarily typical of the country, but in Tehran she found many young people yearning for more.
今年24岁的哈耶里在过去3年中一直在记录和她经历相似的人们的生活。她的第一个大项目《你的面纱是个战场》(Your Veil Is a Battleground)去年在Lens上发表，拍摄的是在德黑兰过着双重生活的青少年女孩，她们在公开场合严守禁忌，私下里却突破极限追求个人自由。她的拍摄对象不一定非得是这个国家的典型人物，但她的确发现，德黑兰的很多青年都渴望更多。
They were, she felt, exactly who she would have been if she had not emigrated.
她认为，自己如果没有移民，便会成为他们当中的一个。
Ms. Hayeri followed four of them as they, too, emigrated in search of those freedoms and better economic opportunities. She photographed her 17-year-old subjects in Tehran, as they moved and in the countries where they settled over the last year.
哈耶里跟踪记录了其中4个女孩的生活，她们跟她自己一样，也为寻找自由和更好的经济条件而移了民。她拍摄了那些17岁青年在德黑兰的生活，还拍摄了他们移民，以及过去一年在新国家安定下来的过程。
“I think for all these girls, the families sent them away for exactly the same reason that my family did: for a better future, for more safety, more educational options,” Ms. Hayeri said. “Hoping for a better future.”
哈耶里说，“我觉得，就这些女孩而言，她们的家人把她们送出去的原因和我家人是完全一样的：为了更好的未来、更多的安全保障、更多受教育的选择。总的来说是希望能有一个更好的未来。”
Their experiences have been quite different.
她们的经历各不相同。
Parmida moved with her family to California to study ballet, which was illegal in Iran. “Not only couldn’t she perform, but ballet classes have to be run sort of underground,” Ms. Hayeri said. In the United States, Parmida has continued her ballet lessons and has started ballroom dancing.
帕尔米达(Parmida)和她的家人一起搬到了加利福尼亚，为的是学习芭蕾舞，跳芭蕾舞在伊朗是非法的。哈耶里说，“她不仅不能表演，连上芭蕾舞课都得用上类似地下活动的办法。”帕尔米达在美国继续学习芭蕾舞，并且已经开始在舞厅跳舞。
Melika moved to Montreal to finish high school and attend college. She lives alone, though her parents visit often. She is generally quiet and shy. “She studies all the time, so grade-wise, she’s doing amazing,” Ms. Hayeri said. “But I don’t think that she’s happy with where she is right now.”
梅利卡(Melika)搬到蒙特利尔，为的是念完高中并进入大学。她一个人住，不过她父母经常来看她。大致说来，她又安静又腼腆。哈耶里说，“她总是在学习，很会考试，成绩很好。但我觉得，她对现在的处境并不满意。”
Soheila moved to Toronto with her family, “very religious and restrictive” Sunni Muslims from southern Iran. She has changed a lot since arriving, especially in “the way she dresses and the way she interacts with friends,” Ms. Hayeri said. “Now she lives her life and works at McDonald’s.”
苏海拉(Soheila)和家人一起搬到了多伦多，她的家人来自伊朗南部，是“非常虔诚非常严格”的逊尼派穆斯林。哈耶里说，来多伦多之后，她改变了很多，特别是“在穿衣服的方式和与朋友相处方面。现在她在麦当劳工作，过着自己的生活。”
Parastou was a member of the Iranian national junior canoeing team, but her prospects for continued athletic competition were dim because she was a woman, and women are discouraged from participating in public sporting events in Iran. She moved to Australia, hoping to compete there. Now, she works as a lifeguard and teaches swimming while continuing her training.
帕拉斯托(Parastou)是伊朗国家少年皮划艇队的成员，但她继续参加运动竞赛的前途十分渺茫，因为她是女的，而伊朗不鼓励女性参加公开体育运动。于是她搬到了澳大利亚，希望能在那里参加比赛。如今她一边继续训练，一边从事救生员和游泳教练的工作。
As new immigrants, each of these four women face similar challenges to those Ms. Hayeri faced when she moved to Canada in 2005. But since then, Ms. Hayeri has found her own path as a successful young photographer. She is glad that she emigrated — a move that allowed her to become “a different person.”
作为新移民，这4个女孩面临的问题都类似于哈耶里在2005年移民加拿大时所面临的问题。但从那时起，哈耶里找到了自己的路，成为了一名成功的年轻摄影师。她为自己的移民选择感到高兴，因为这使她有机会成为“一个不同的人。”
Now, though, she is back in Tehran, photographing during the run-up to Iran’s June 14 presidential election.
但是，现在她回到了德黑兰，在伊朗6月14日总统选举即将到来的这段时间里进行拍摄。