HONG KONG — China is disclosing a steadily growing number of cases of H7N9 bird flu, including four more cases announced on Friday, reviving concerns among health experts that the disease may be spreading and could pose a further threat as the world’s largest annual human migration begins ahead of Chinese New Year.
香港——中国公布的H7N9禽流感病例正在稳步增加。有关部门周五宣布了四个新增病例，健康专家由此担心该疾病或许正在蔓延，而且由于中国新年将近，世界上规模最大的年度人口流动已经开始，该疾病可能会带来进一步威胁。
Mainland China has confirmed 14 cases this week alone, including the four announced on Friday, and seven on Thursday.
仅仅本周，中国内地就确诊了14个病例，其中包括周五宣布的四例和周四宣布的七例。
Human cases of the H7N9 avian influenza virus began to emerge in late March near Shanghai, infecting 131 people, including 26 who died, by early May. The virus then seemed to fade away, as influenza viruses often do over the summer.
去年3月末，人感染H7N9禽流感病毒的病例开始在上海附近出现，截至5月初，该病毒共导致131人感染，其中有26人死亡。随后，这种病毒的势头似乎逐渐减弱，因为流感病毒经常会在夏季减弱。
The virus then re-emerged much earlier in the season last October with a trickle of cases, and that trickle has now accelerated in January.
这种病毒于去年10月重现，重现的时间提前了许多，但病例不多；目前，病例开始加速增加。
The increased tempo of cases comes just before people across China begin their traditional trips to family reunions for celebrations of the Chinese New Year, which falls on Jan. 31 this year. The official travel season in China began Thursday, with the government estimating that 3.62 billion trips would be taken in the next 40 days by road, train, airplane and other modes of transportation.
中国今年的春节是1月31日，各地的人们已经开始回家过年的传统旅程，禽流感病例恰在此时加速增加。官方所说的春运已于周四开始。据政府预计，在未来40天内，公路、铁路、飞机和其他交通方式的客流量将达到36.2亿人次。
Many of those trips are to hometowns in rural areas. A large majority of today’s Chinese grew up in the countryside, even though the country as a whole became more than 50 percent urban in 2011 because of heavy migration to factories, construction sites and universities in cities.
其中许多旅程的目的地都是农村地区。由于大量人口向工厂、建筑工地和位于城市的大学转移，中国的城市化水平已经在2011年超过50%，尽管如此，如今的中国人当中仍有相当大一部分成长于农村。
Contact with poultry, common in rural areas, is still the main route of infection for the virus. Heavy travel in densely packed vehicles offers the virus more chances to pass from person to person, and possibly evolve into new forms that may be more readily transmissible.
与家禽接触的情形在农村地区颇为常见，这种情形仍然是感染禽流感病毒的主要途径。使用拥挤交通工具的频密旅程让这种病毒有了更多实现人际传播的机会，还让病毒有机会演变为传染性可能更强的新形式。
In a sign that governments around the region are starting to take precautions as well, Hong Kong announced late Friday that it would begin conducting blood tests on Jan. 24 on local and imported poultry to determine if they have the virus. Any birds with confirmed infections will be killed, as will any birds that have been kept with the infected birds, said Dr. Ko Wing-man, the secretary for food and health.
中国内地周边的各地政府纷纷开始采取预防措施。香港于周五晚间宣布，将于1月24日开始对当地和进口的家禽进行血液测试，查看其血液中是否含有这种病毒。食物及卫生局局长高永文(Ko Wing-man)博士说，所有确认感染的禽类和所有与受感染禽类养在一起的禽类都将被扑杀。
Health experts are watching closely for two warning signs of greater human-to-human transmission that have not yet occurred on a large scale.
目前尚未出现大规模的人际传播，但健康专家正在密切观察两个相关的警示现象。
One sign would be a spate of cases among people who have had no apparent contact with poultry or environments contaminated by the feces, uncooked blood or other fluids of poultry. The other would be a series of cases in which several members of the same family fall ill in quick succession and appear to have transmitted the disease to one another.
其中一个迹象是，在没有与禽类或被粪便、未煮过的血液和其他禽类液体污染的环境进行明显接触的情况下，出现大量人感染病例。另一个迹象则是，同一个家庭的几名成员快速相继染病，并且表现出人际传播的特征。
Helen Yu, a spokeswoman for the Beijing office of the World Health Organization, wrote in an email that the proportion of cases among people who had no contact with poultry had stayed low since the disease emerged nearly a year ago and showed no sign of increasing this winter.
世界卫生组织（World Health Organization，简称WTO）北京办事处女发言人海伦·于(Helen Yu)在一封电子邮件中写道，自该病在近一年前出现以来，没有接触过家禽的病例所占比例一直保持在较低水平，今冬也没有增加的迹象。
Similarly, there has been only one family cluster of cases this winter, compared with four clusters last spring.
同样，去年春天仅有四例家族感染病例，今冬也只有一例。
“It is possible that limited human-to-human transmission may occur, but there is no evidence of sustained or widespread human-to-human transmission,” she wrote. “We continue to expect sporadic human cases.”
“可能会出现有限的人际传播，但没有迹象表明会出现持续或广泛的人际传播，”她写道。“我们依然预计，只会出现零星的人感染病例。”
Extensive testing for bird flu may also result in more cases being detected even if the actual rate of infections is not increasing as rapidly as the data on confirmed infections might suggest.
即便实际感染病例增加的速度并不像确诊病例数据所暗示的那么迅速，但大范围的禽流感检测仍有可能检测出更多病例。
Yet the H7N9 virus remains a particular concern for two reasons.
然而，H7N9病毒依然特别令人担忧，原因有二。
It has a series of genetic mutations that have been associated in other viruses with greater adaptation to human-to-human transmission. And the H7N9 virus has proved itself to be “much, much better than other avian influenza viruses” at growing in human lung tissue samples in a laboratory at Hong Kong University, said Dr. Malik Peiris, a prominent avian influenza researcher at the university.
该病毒的一些基因突变和其他一些病毒有关联，那些病毒更适应人际传播。而且，香港大学(Hong Kong University)知名禽流感研究人员马利克·佩里斯(Malik Peiris)博士表示，该校一个实验室的实验结果表明，H7N9病毒“远比其他禽流感病毒”更适合在人肺组织样本中生长。
The laboratory uses lung tissue that was removed from people during lung cancer surgery or other procedures. The tissue would normally be discarded after such surgeries but is sent to the laboratory for tests instead, Dr. Peiris said.
该实验室使用的是人们在肺癌手术或其他手术过程中摘除的人肺组织。佩里斯博士说，这类手术摘除的组织一般说来都会被丢弃，这次则被送到了实验室。
The Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota noted in a short report on Thursday that the pace of new cases in China in recent days has already matched the busiest pace reached last spring.
明尼苏达大学传染病研究和政策中心(Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota)在周四的一份简短报告中指出，中国最近几天发现新病例的速度已经赶上了去年春末的最快速度。
According to the W.H.O., 183 cases have been reported from mainland China since last March. Hong Kong has also reported three cases, and Taiwan has reported two, all of them involving people apparently infected in mainland China.
世界卫生组织称，自去年3月以来，中国内地共通报了183个病例。香港也通报了三例，台湾两例，这些病例中的患者似乎都是在内地感染病毒的。
The W.H.O. is not currently recommending any restrictions on travel to China. But the Geneva-based organization is suggesting that visitors to China avoid live bird markets or if they must visit them, that they avoid live animals and surfaces in contact with live animals or with the blood or feces of poultry.
目前，世卫组织尚未建议限制赴华旅游。但总部位于日内瓦的该组织建议，赴华游客应避免前往活禽市场，如果非去不可，也应该避免接触活禽以及沾染了家禽血液、粪便的台面。
The organization is also recommending that poultry be cooked thoroughly, that poultry-cooking implements be cleaned thoroughly, and that visitors wash their hands regularly and cover their mouths and noses when coughing or sneezing.
该组织还建议，家禽应彻底烹煮，烹煮家禽的器具应彻底清洗，游客应该勤洗手，并在咳嗽或打喷嚏时掩住口鼻。