AL-SUBAYHIYAH, Kuwait — The money flows in via bank transfer or is delivered in bags or pockets bulging with cash. Working from his sparely furnished sitting room here, Ghanim al-Mteiri gathers the funds and transports them to Syria for the rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad.
科威特苏贝西雅——资金通过银行转账或塞满现金的大小口袋滚滚流入。加尼姆·姆泰里(Ghanim al-Mteiri)在自己装潢简朴的起居室里劳作着，他收集资金，再将它们输送至叙利亚，以支持正在对抗巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统的反政府武装。
Mr. Mteiri — one of dozens of Kuwaitis who openly raise money to arm the opposition — has helped turn this tiny, oil-rich Persian Gulf state into a virtual Western Union outlet for Syria’s rebels, with the bulk of the funds he collects going to a Syrian affiliate of Al Qaeda.
在这里，包括姆泰里在内的几十位科威特人公开为武装叙利亚反对派进行筹款，他们已帮助这座小小的波斯湾石油富国变身成为一个实质上的西联汇款(Western Union)网点，专为叙利亚反政府武装服务。通过这种方式，姆泰里筹集的大笔资金流向基地组织(Al Qaeda)在叙利亚的一个附属组织。
One Kuwait-based effort raised money to equip 12,000 rebel fighters for $2,500 each. Another campaign, run by a Saudi sheikh based in Syria and close to Al Qaeda, is called “Wage Jihad With Your Money.” Donors earn “silver status” by giving $175 for 50 sniper bullets, or “gold status” by giving twice as much for eight mortar rounds.
一个以科威特为根据地的项目筹集到了资金，为1.2万名反政府武装分子每人投入2500美元（约合15200元人民币），配置各种装备。另一项名为“用你的钱发动伊斯兰圣战”(Wage Jihad With Your Money)的行动则是由一位现居叙利亚的沙特阿拉伯酋长发起，他与基地组织关系密切。捐款人如果给出175美元来购买50枚狙击步枪子弹就能赢得“银级地位”，如果将钱加倍购买八发迫击炮炮弹，那就能取得“金级地位”。
“Once upon a time we cooperated with the Americans in Iraq,” said Mr. Mteiri, a former soldier in the Kuwaiti Army, recalling the American role in pushing Iraq out of Kuwait in 1991. “Now we want to get Bashar out of Syria, so why not cooperate with Al Qaeda?”
“我们曾在伊拉克与美国人合作，”姆泰里回忆起1991年美国人帮助将伊拉克人赶出科威特时说，他是一名科威特军队退伍士兵。“现在我们想把巴沙尔赶出叙利亚，所以为什么不能和基地组织合作呢？”
Outside support for the warring parties in Syria has helped sustain the conflict and transformed it into a proxy battle by regional powers, with Russia, Iran and the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah helping the government and with Saudi Arabia and Qatar providing the main support for the rebels.
外部力量对叙利亚交战各方的支持使得这场内战持续了下来，也将它转变成了一场由区域势力参与的代理人大战，在俄罗斯、伊朗和黎巴嫩武装组织真主党(Hezbollah)对政府施以援手的同时，沙特阿拉伯和卡塔尔则为反政府武装提供了主要支持。
But the flow of private funds to rebel groups has added a wild-card factor to the war, analysts say, exacerbating divisions in the opposition and bolstering its most extreme elements. While the West has been hesitant to arm and finance the more secular forces that initially led the turn to armed rebellion, fighters have flocked to Islamist militias and in some cases rebranded themselves as jihadist because that is where the money is.
但分析人士表示，帮助反政府武装组织的民间资金的流入为这场战争增加了一种不可预知的因素，使反对派的分裂愈加恶化，也助长了其中最激进的力量。由于西方一直不愿为那些最初引领了武装暴动的、更世俗化的力量提供武器和资金，武装分子纷纷投靠伊斯兰民兵组织，其中一些甚至重新将自己标榜为圣战主义者，因为只有这样才能获得资金。
“It creates a self-sustaining dynamic that is totally independent of all the strategic and diplomatic games that are happening and being led by states,” said Emile Hokayem, an analyst in the Middle East with the International Institute for Strategic Studies.
国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)驻中东分析师埃米尔·霍卡彦姆(Emile Hokayem)说，“它创造出一种可自我持续的动力，完全独立于现有的、由各国主导的战略与外交博弈之外。”
Most private donors shun the Western-backed Supreme Military Council, undermining a body meant to unify the rebels into a moderate force. And they dismiss the opposition’s political leadership as well as calls by the United States and other powers for peace talks. 
多数私人捐款人都会避开西方支持的最高军事委员会(Supreme Military Council)，这无疑削弱了这个意图将各反政府武装统一在一起的温和组织。他们也不认可反对派的政治领袖们，并无视美国和其他国家要求和平谈判的呼声。
Sheikh Mohammed Haif al-Mteiri, a former member of Parliament who is not related to the former Kuwaiti soldier and leads a committee that funds mainline rebel groups, said private funding would not exist if countries like the United States had intervened to protect Syrian civilians.
前国会议员谢赫穆罕默德·海夫·姆泰里(Sheikh Mohammed Haif al-Mteiri)表示，如果美国等国当初出手保护叙利亚平民，这种民间筹资现象就根本不会存在。谢赫穆罕默德·海夫·姆泰里与那位科威特退伍士兵并无亲属关系，他领导着一个为主流反政府武装组织筹资的委员会。
Kuwait lacks a tough police state like those that have cracked down on such activity in other gulf states, and a range of Islamists participate in its relatively open political system. A number of former members of Parliament actively raise funds, and some have traveled to Syria to meet their rebel allies. Kuwait’s turning a blind eye to the fund-raising has upset Washington.
和其他对此类行为采取严厉打击的海湾国家不同的是，科威特并不是一个强硬的警察国家，而且有着许多立场不同的伊斯兰主义者参与到了其相对开放的政治体系里。数名前国会议员一直积极参与筹款，其中一些还去了叙利亚，与反政府武装盟友见面。而科威特政府对于这种已经惹恼了华盛顿的筹款行为也睁一只眼闭一只眼。
The nation’s location and banking system also make it easy for donors from more restrictive countries to wire money in or drive it across the border for drop-off.
对于那些来自限制较多国家的捐款人来说，科威特的地理位置及银行系统也更便利，他们可以很便利地通过电汇把钱转入，或驾车穿过边境将钱捎带过来。
Most fund-raisers refuse to disclose how much money they collect, other than announcing gifts on social media. Private support is believed to be less than that sent by states, although Western and Arab officials acknowledged that underground funding was difficult to track.
除了在社交媒体上宣布捐赠行为，大多数募捐者都拒绝透露他们筹到的金额。外界认为私人资助的金额要少于各个国家的资助金额，但是西方及阿拉伯国家的官员承认，很难对地下筹资活动进行监控。
The Kuwaiti government has played down the importance of the funds, saying Kuwait’s charitable contributions dwarf any cash sent for arms.
科威特政府一直淡化这些资金的重要性，称科威特的慈善捐款远超过用于购买武器的援助资金。
The minister for cabinet affairs, Sheikh Mohammed al-Abdullah al-Sabah, said in an interview that the government had sent more than $500 million in aid to Syria’s neighbors in addition to money sent by licensed Kuwaiti charities.
内阁事务国务大臣谢赫穆罕默德·阿卜杜拉·萨巴赫(Sheikh Mohammed al-Abdullah al-Sabah)在一次采访中表示，除了正式的科威特慈善组织捐赠的资金，科威特政府已经向叙利亚的邻国提供了逾5亿美元的援助资金。
He compared private funding to the smuggling of drugs or Cuban cigars into the United States, saying the government could do no more to stop it.
他将私人筹资活动比作向美国走私毒品或古巴雪茄，称政府无法采取更多举措来制止这种行为。
“How am I supposed to stop someone who gets on a plane with $10,000 in his jacket pocket?” he said.
他说，“我应该如何阻拦一个登机时上衣口袋里揣了一万美元的人呢？”
American officials disagree.
美国官员并不同意这种看法。
“The Kuwaitis could be doing a lot more on this issue,” said David S. Cohen, the Treasury under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence. He said that Kuwait posed the region’s biggest problem of financing linked to extremists in Syria, and that American efforts to press the issue with the Kuwaiti government had yielded limited results.
财政部负责反恐与金融情报的副部长戴维·S·科恩(David S. Cohen)说，“科威特方面在该问题上可以做很多事。”他表示，在与叙利亚极端分子有关的筹资活动上，科威特给这个地区带来了最大的问题，而美国针对该问题向科威特政府施加的压力也没有取得显著成果。
Mr. Cohen declined to estimate the amount of private funding flowing through Kuwait to Syria, but said it was enough to equip extremist fighters with ample light arms and supplies.
科恩拒绝估算从科威特流入叙利亚的私人资金的数额，但称这些资金足以为极端主义武装分子提供充足的轻型武器和物资。
The funding operation run by Mr. Mteiri, the former Kuwaiti soldier, illustrates how the campaigns work and the motivations behind them.
科威特退伍士兵姆泰里开展的筹资活动展示了这种活动的运转方式，以及活动背后的动机。
In an interview often interrupted by tea and prayer breaks, Mr. Mteiri, 40, said he had been moved to raise funds for Syria by a video of a young girl crying uncontrollably after government forces killed her father. At the same time, he hopes the war alters Syria’s character.
40岁的姆泰里接受了采访，此次采访因为喝茶或祷告而被多次打断。姆泰里表示，他看到的一个视频——一个年轻女孩在政府军杀死其父亲后无法自控地大哭——打动了他，因此开始为叙利亚筹集资金。与此同时，他希望战争能改变叙利亚的特质。
“We seek to end Alawite rule in Syria because we consider it a Sunni country and the capital of the Islamic world,” he said.
他说，“我们力图终结阿拉维派(Alawite)在叙利亚的统治地位，因为我们将它视作逊尼派国家，伊斯兰世界的首都。”
Last year, a conference he organized for members of his tribe, one of the gulf’s largest, opened soon after a mass killing by government forces in Houla, prompting more than $14 million in donations in five days, Mr. Mteiri said. The sum could not be verified.
姆泰里表示，去年政府军在胡拉镇开展大规模屠杀后不久，他就组织宗族成员参加会议，在5天的时间里筹得1400万美元的捐款。姆泰里所在的宗族是海湾地区最大的宗族之一，相关捐款总额无法获得验证。
Since then, he has organized more conferences and overseen aid convoys while collecting donations. One wealthy businessman gave $1.7 million, he said, though most donations are smaller. Two brides had given him their wedding dowries, he said, and children had donated their iPads.
此后，他组织了更多会议，在筹集捐款的同时也监督援助物资的运输工作。他表示，一个富商捐了170万美元，但大多数都是小额捐赠。他表示，两名新娘捐出了自己的嫁妆，孩子们则捐出了他们的iPad。
While he spoke, his iPhone buzzed, and he showed a visitor a bank transfer notice for $1,300 from Saudi Arabia.
他说话的时候，他的iPhone响了，他向一名访客展示了一条银行转账通知——从沙特阿拉伯转入的1300美元。