IN the United States, public reaction to the corporate use of business jets can be scathing when instances of obvious excess become publicized, such as the day in 2008 when the top executives of the Detroit automakers each used a private jet to fly to Washington to argue for $25 billion in taxpayer bailouts.
在美国，当大公司使用商务飞机的招摇举动遭到曝光时，公众可能会对这种做法给予严厉的抨击。比如2008年，底特律汽车制造企业的高管们每人乘坐一架私人飞机，前往华盛顿申请政府用纳税人的钱，给予总额250亿美元（约合1560亿元人民币）的救援时的那样。
But in China, where sales of business jets are increasing despite a lack of large scale air-system support and a dearth of airports to handle private flights, attitudes about private jets seem to be different. While forecasters had long assumed midsize and smaller jets would prevail as China’s business aviation market expanded throughout the country, that has not been the case.
但在中国，对私人飞机的态度似乎很不一样。尽管缺乏大规模的航空系统的支持，也少有为私人飞机提供服务的机场，商务飞机在中国的销量正不断增长。虽然预测者长期以来一直认为，随着中国商务航空市场的扩大，最受欢迎的将是中小型飞机，但事实并非如此。
Instead, Chinese buyers are enthusiastically opting mostly for so-called heavy metal jets — big, long-range luxury jets that can cost $50 million or more before extras like fancy cabin fixtures. A big jet is considered a big status symbol.
相反，中国买家都在满腔热情地选购所谓的重型金属飞机——大型、远程的豪华飞机，不包括机舱内的豪华配件的话，其价格可达5000万美元以上。大飞机被视作身份地位的象征。
In China, “the distribution of cabin size is very different,” said Brian Foley, whose company, Brian Foley Associates, provides market analysis on the global aerospace industry. “China leans more toward the heavy, top-end class” in business jet purchases, he said.
在中国，客户“对机舱大小的偏好十分不同”，全球航空业市场分析公司布莱恩·弗雷咨询公司(Brian Foley Associates)总裁布莱恩·弗雷(Brian Foley)说。他透露，在购买商务飞机时，“中国客户更倾向于重型的高档飞机。”
The main allure is longer range. A top-end Gulfstream G550 — price tag $56 million before cabin fittings — can fly 6,800 nautical miles nonstop, or about 7,800 miles, easily covering the distance between Shanghai and New York.
尤其受到关注的是航程较远的飞机。最高端的湾流(Gulfstream)G550商务机——不包括机舱配件，标价为5600万美元——可以不间断飞行6800海里，即大约7800英里（约合1.3万公里），轻松超过上海和纽约之间的距离。
“China is a pretty big land mass, and if you want to go to a business center outside of China, you just need the legs to get there,” Mr. Foley said.
“中国的陆地面积相当大，如果你想要前往中国之外的商业中心，就只能坐飞机，”弗雷说。
But cultural differences also favor the market for the big luxury jets, it seems.
不过，助推大型豪华飞机市场发展的，似乎还有文化上的差异。
“In China,” Mr. Foley said, “if you’re a successful business person, you generally don’t mind flaunting that and making your compatriots aware that you’re doing well. And one way to do that is to buy the biggest and best business jet, if you have the money to buy it.”
“在中国，”弗雷说，“如果你是一个成功的商人，你一般不会介意炫耀这一点，也不介意让同胞知道你有钱。而其中一种炫耀方式，就是购买最大最好的商务飞机，如果你买得起的话。”
Global sales of business jets, which plunged during the financial crisis, have been in a slow recovery, and will account for $250 billion in sales from 2013 to 2023, according to Honeywell’s business and general aviation division. In its most recent 10-year forecast, Honeywell said that bigger, faster, more expensive long-range jets would account for 70 percent of new expenditures worldwide on business jets.
全球商务机销售在金融危机期间曾大幅下降，目前正缓慢恢复。根据霍尼韦尔(Honeywell)商务和通用航空部门的数据，2013到2023年的销售额将达2500亿美元。在其最新的10年期预测报告中，霍尼韦尔说，机舱更大、速度更快、价格更昂贵的远程飞机将占到全世界新增商务机支出的70%。
Throughout Asia, Honeywell said, the total number of business jets has grown about 12 percent annually over the last five years, when large-cabin, long-range jets accounted for 77 percent of total sales.
霍尼韦尔的报告中写道，在整个亚洲，过去五年商务机的总数每年增长了约12%，在此期间，大机舱的远程飞机在总销售中所占的比例为77%。
Figures from the General Aviation Manufacturers Association show marked global shifts underway in the market for business jets. In 2007, the United States and Canada accounted for 58.3 percent of the 1,136 business jets delivered worldwide. That dropped to 49.7 percent in 2012, then rose slightly, to 52.4 percent, last year — when the industry was still struggling for stability and overall shipments were 678.
美国通用航空制造商协会(General Aviation Manufacturers Association)的数据显示，全球商务机市场正在发生一些明显变化。2007年，在全世界交付的1136架商务机中，美国和加拿大的购买量占58.3%。这个数字2012年下降到了49.7%，去年略有上升，达到52.4%。去年，这个行业艰难地维持了稳定，总出货量为678架。
But there has been significant growth in the Asia-Pacific region, which accounted for 11.9 percent of shipments of business jets in 2013, up from 4.2 percent in 2007. In Latin America, the share grew to 11.1 percent in 2013 from 7.5 percent in 2007. The Middle East and Africa accounted for 9 percent of shipments last year, up from 5.2 percent in 2007.
而亚太地区的商务机销量出现了大幅增长，其购买量在2013年全球商务机的出货量中占到11.9%，高于2007年的4.2%。拉美地区所占的比例在2007年为7.5%，2013年增长到了11.1%。中东和非洲在去年全球商务机出货量中的占比为9%，高于2007年的5.2%。
In Europe, the share fell to 16.6 percent in 2013 from 24.9 percent in 2007. In addition to Europe’s struggling economy, contributing factors included cultural attitudes that are sometimes negative toward use of private jets and high-speed train service that can substitute for flying on medium-length routes.
欧洲所占的比例从2007年的24.9%降至2013年的16.6%。除了欧洲举步维艰的经济，其他原因还包括，该地区的文化有时不提倡乘坐私人飞机，而且对于中等长度的线路，高铁可以替代飞机。
In the Asia-Pacific region, transport ministers from 21 countries have adopted a plan to ease the way for business aviation, which is often hampered by strict bureaucratic rules and — in many cases — by military control of national airspace.
在亚太地区，21个国家的交通部长已经达成了一个为商务航空提供便利的方案。商务航空常常受到严格的官僚规定约束，而且在很多情况下还受制于军方对空域的管控。
Those issues are to be explored at the Asian Business Aviation Conference and Exhibition, which runs Tuesday through Thursday in Shanghai. The agenda is focused on the growing importance of business aviation for the region. Among the participants will be top Chinese officials, who are expected to address obstacles to that growth in China.
周二到周四在上海举行的亚洲商务航空大会和展览会(Asian Business Aviation Conference and Exhibition)会探讨这些问题。会议的议程主要关注该地区商务航空日益提升的重要性。与会者包括中国的高级官员，预计他们会着手应对中国商务机销售增长所面临的障碍。
“In the U.S., there are about 5,000 airports that can be used by business jets,” said Mr. Foley, the aerospace analyst, adding that in China the number stood at around 200 airports. “And complicating that is the fact that there aren’t a lot of services for fuel or comfort, or any of the things you expect in a longer-established business aviation market.”
航空分析师弗雷说，“在美国，可供商务机使用的机场大约有5000个。”他接着说，而中国只有200个左右。“更麻烦的是，中国没有太多燃料或支持方面的服务，也没有成熟的商务航空市场中所具备的其他条件。”
And he pointed to other obstacles in the region. “In China, trying to get from point A to point B by business jet can be tricky,” Mr. Foley said. “In the U.S., you can just file your flight plan and be up and on your merry way within half an hour. Not in China. It used to be days, but it’s still hours to get your flight clearance. And it might not be very direct, at your requested altitude or way-points, because the military owns the airspace, and private aviation is low on the totem pole after the military and the airlines.”
他还指出了该地区存在的其他障碍。弗雷说，“在中国，乘坐商务机从一个地方到另一个地方可能会很麻烦。在美国，只要申报飞行计划，半小时之内就可以高高兴兴地起飞了。在中国就不行。过去要花上几天时间，现在要获得许可也要好几个小时。而且可能不会很直接，不会按照你申请的高度或航路点，这是因为空域由军方拥有，私人飞机的等级要低于军方和航空公司。”
So a well-heeled tycoon might buy a $60 million luxury jet in China but find that using it is more complicated than in many countries. Still, that is where the market preferences lie, and business culture in a rapidly developing economy may explain part of that, Mr. Foley suggested.
因此一位不差钱的大亨在购买一架6000万美元的豪华飞机之后可能会发现，在中国使用这架飞机比在许多国家都麻烦。弗雷说，尽管如此，市场的偏好仍然摆在那里，部分原因可能在于这个飞速发展的经济体的商业文化。
“Some of these big jets that are bought are pretty much parked out on the ramp most of the time,” he said, adding that the owners were often limited to impressing associates and clients on the ground, rather than at 40,000 feet.
他说，“一些人买来的大飞机多数时间都停在停机坪上。”他接着说，飞机的主人常常只能在地面上向合作伙伴和客户显摆，而不是在4万英尺的高空。
“We kind of refer to that as ramp jewelry,” Mr. Foley said.
弗雷说，“我们有时把那种飞机叫做停机坪上的首饰。”