Never let it be said that Elon Musk, a serial entrepreneur who was a co-founder of PayPal and the electric car company Tesla Motors, is afraid to think big.
千万别说埃隆·马斯克(Elon Musk)不敢从大处着想，他先后创办了许多企业，是贝宝(PayPal)和电动汽车公司特斯拉汽车(Tesla Motors)的联合创始人。
Mr. Musk on Monday harked back to the days of the late-1990s tech bubble — when no idea seemed too big or too expensive — by showing off plans for a project that seems the stuff of science fiction.
本周一，马斯克让人回想起了20世纪90年代末的科技泡沫——当时再大的想法都不嫌大，再昂贵的点子也不嫌贵——他向大家展示了一个似乎出自科幻小说的项目方案。
The hypothetical project is called the Hyperloop, a high-speed train that would take people to San Francisco from Los Angeles in 30 minutes. That is a speed of almost 800 miles an hour.
设想的项目名为Hyperloop，是一种高速列车，可以在30分钟内把乘客从洛杉矶送到旧金山，时速将近每小时约800英里（约合1230公里）。
The first unanswered question among many for Mr. Musk’s ambitious vision is who exactly would build this 400-mile transportation system. Mr. Musk suggested someone else should do it. But if no one takes the baton, he might do it. Or not.
在马斯克雄心勃勃的愿景中，悬而未决的问题有很多，其中头一个就是：究竟谁会来修建这条400英里长的运输系统？马斯克说别人应该来做这件事。但是，如果没有人接过接力棒的话，他就可能会亲自上阵。也可能不会。
Beyond that, the details of who would pay for Hyperloop, how it would be build and how long it would take are also unclear. But Mr. Musk theorized that if he devoted all of his energy, he could have a prototype done within one to two years. He estimated the project would cost around $6 billion and tickets would cost $20 per trip.
除此之外，谁来支付Hyperloop的费用，它将如何修建，会花多长时间，这些细节也都还不清楚。但马斯克推断，如果他把全副精力投入到这个项目上，可以在一两年内修建好Hyperloop的一个原型样品。他估计，这个项目耗资约为60亿美元，每趟车程票价20美元。
“It doesn’t seem plausible to me,” said Richard White, a professor of American history at Stanford and author of “Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America.” “I’m suspicious about everything, especially cost.”
“我觉得不可信。”理查德·怀特(Richard White)说。他是斯坦福大学(Stanford)的美国史教授，著有《强行通过：大铁路和现代美国的形成》(Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America)一书。“我怀疑该项目的每一个方面，尤其是成本。”
Mr. White added, “How’s he going to build this thing for $6 billion? You can’t even build the Bay Bridge for that much money.” The still-unfinished renovations of the Bay Bridge connecting San Francisco and Oakland are expected to cost $6.3 billion.
怀特说，“只花60亿美元他怎么能建得成这个系统？那点钱连建海湾大桥(Bay Bridge)都建不起。”连接旧金山和奥克兰的海湾大桥仍在整修中，整修预计将耗资63亿美元。
So don’t pack your bags just yet. In an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek on Monday, Mr. Musk said he regretted mentioning the Hyperloop last year, saying that he has no time to work on the project and instead has to run SpaceX and Tesla Motors, his two other companies.
所以，你不用现在就急着收拾行李。马斯克本周一在接受《彭博商业周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek)采访时说，他后悔去年就提到了Hyperloop，他又没有时间去运作该项目，而是必须把精力放在他的另外两家公司，SpaceX和特斯拉汽车上。
Mr. Musk first mentioned Hyperloop last summer and detailed it further in an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek. In July, he announced on Twitter that he would unveil the designs for the high-speed train on Aug. 12. As promised, a 57-page “alpha design” plan was posted online Monday that explained how such a train would work.Mr. Musk has clearly put a lot of thought into the design. The document he unveiled explains that the high-speed train would become “truly a new mode of transport — a fifth mode after planes, trains, cars and boats.” The Hyperloop would transport people in “pods” that would travel through tubes. The tubes would be mounted on pylons that could be designed to withstand earthquake movements.
马斯克首次提到Hyperloop是在去年夏天；在接受《彭博商业周刊》的一次采访时，他又进一步详细介绍了这个项目。今年7月，他在Twitter上宣布，他将在8月12日公布这种高速列车的设计稿。一份57页的“阿尔法设计”方案如期而至，于本周一发布到网上，它解释了这种列车的运行原理，显然马斯克在设计中花了不少心思。他公布的这份文件解释道，这种高速列车将成为“真正的新型交通手段——继飞机、火车、汽车和船只之后的第五种方式”。Hyperloop用“胶囊仓”搭载乘客，胶囊仓会在管道中前进，支撑管道的桥塔可以选用能承受地震的设计。
Mr. Musk took swipes at the California High Speed Rail that is being built and headed by the California High-Speed Rail Authority. This train, while real, is not expected to be completed until 2029 and will cost an estimated $68.4 billion to build.
马斯克抨击了加州高速铁路管理局(California High-Speed Rail Authority)推进的，正在修建中的加州高速铁路。这个列车项目虽然现实，但要到2029年才能完工，造价预计将达684亿美元。
“When the California ‘high speed’ rail was approved, I was quite disappointed, as I know many others were too,” Mr. Musk wrote, while saying that the Hyperloop would cost $6 billion to build. It is not clear how he arrived at this cost estimate.
在提到修建Hyperloop将耗资60亿美元的时候，马斯克写道：“当加州‘高速’铁路获得批准时，我深感失望，我知道很多人都很失望。”目前还不清楚他是如何估算出这个成本的。
If anyone could build such a train, it is probably Mr. Musk. Critics railed against him when he first broached the idea for private space travel with Space Exploration Technologies, of Hawthorne, Calif. Otherwise known as SpaceX, Mr. Musk’s company proved critics wrong last year when it launched its Falcon 9 rocket.
如果有什么人能建造这样一种列车的话，那个人可能就是马斯克。他首次提出在加利福尼亚州霍桑成立太空探索技术公司(Space Exploration Technologies)，提供私人太空旅行的想法时，遭到了批评者的抨击。这家又名为SpaceX的公司去年发射了“猎鹰9号”(Falcon 9)火箭，证明批评者失算了。
But Mr. Musk’s assertion that he does not want to be the leader of the Hyperloop project has some people wondering if it will actually be built.
但是马斯克表示他不想成为Hyperloop项目的领导者，因此一些人开始怀疑，这个项目到底会不会建成。
During a news conference, Mr. Musk seemed to waver over whether he wanted to be involved with the project. “I’m somewhat tempted to at least make a demonstration prototype,” he said. “I’ve sort of come around a little bit on my thinking here that maybe I should do the beginning bit and build a subscale version that’s operating.”
在一次新闻发布会上，马斯克对于他是否想参与该项目似乎有些犹豫。“我有点动心，想至少做一个示范样品出来，”他说。“我也算对这个项目进行过一些考虑，觉得也许我应该起个头，修建一个可以运营的缩小版。”
In the paper released Monday, Mr. Musk acknowledged that there had been other proposed ideas for a train similar to the high-speed train over the years. “Unfortunately,” he wrote, “none of these have panned out.”
在周一发布的文件中，马斯克承认，这些年来，类似于这种高速列车的项目也有其他人提出过。“可惜的是，”他写道，“它们都不了了之。”