HONG KONG – A number of private equity groups have been knocked out of the running to acquire ParknShop, the Hong Kong supermarket chain owned by the billionaire Li Ka-shing that is considering selling itself in a deal that could command $3 billion to $4 billion, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
香港——熟悉情况的人士称，一些私募股权机构失去了收购亿万富翁李嘉诚(Li Ka-shing)旗下的香港百佳(ParknShop)连锁超市的机会。该连锁超市正在考虑出售，交易金额可能高达30亿（约合184亿元人民币）至40亿美元。
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG Capital are among the private equity investors that are no longer in the bidding, two people with knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday, asking not to be identified because the information was not public. The handful of bidders remaining are all retailers, among them the state-owned China Resources Enterprise and the AEON Group of Japan, one of the people said.
两名熟悉情况的人士周三称，不再参与竞标的机构包括科尔伯格-克拉维斯-罗伯茨公司（Kohlberg Kravis Roberts，简称KKR）和德州太平洋集团(TPG Capital)。这两人要求匿名，因为相关信息还没有公开。其中一人称，还在竞标的都是零售商，其中包括中国国有企业华润创业有限公司(China Resources Enterprise)和日本的永旺集团(Aeon Group)。
“It remains to be seen how competitive this auction really is, but private equity does not really see value at the kind of levels they are talking about,” said one person close to a private equity group that had submitted a bid. “If you are a strategic investor and you can make any synergies with your existing business in Hong Kong or China, then maybe it makes more sense.”
“这次竞标的激烈程度还有待观察，但私募股权机构并不觉得超市的价值能达到他们谈论的这个水平，”与一家曾参与角逐的私募股权机构关系密切的一名人士说，“如果你是一个战略投资者，而且能把超市和你在香港或大陆的现有业务结合起来，这么做或许会更有意义。”
Mr. Li is the richest person in Asia, and ParknShop, part of his conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, is one of two dominant supermarket operators in Hong Kong, with a market share of 35.4 percent last year, according to figures from Euromonitor International.
李嘉诚是亚洲首富，而他的企业集团和记黄埔(Hutchison Whampoa)旗下的百佳超级市场是香港两大超市运营商之一。根据欧睿信息咨询公司(Euromonitor International)的数据，百佳去年的市场占有率为35.4%。
The Wellcome supermarket chain, owned by Singapore-listed Dairy Farm International, a unit of the rival Asian conglomerate Jardine Matheson, controls 41.4 percent of the market, according to Euromonitor. CR Vanguard, a supermarket chain owned by China Resources, has a 7.8 percent share.
据欧睿信息咨询公司称，新加坡上市公司牛奶国际(Dairy Farm International)旗下的惠康(Welcome)连锁超市占据了41.4%的市场份额。牛奶国际是和记黄埔在亚洲的竞争对手怡和洋行(Jardine Matheson)的子公司。华润旗下的华润万家(CR Vanguard)占有7.8%的市场份额。
The high concentration of market share among a small number of competitors is a characteristic found in many areas of Hong Kong’s small but lucrative domestic economy. But unlike the situation in mainland China, where the supermarket sector is a fast-growing and highly fragmented business, the sector in Hong Kong is considerably saturated and sales growth has slowed in recent years, according to analysts.
市场份额在少数竞争对手当中的高度集中，是规模不大但利润丰厚的香港市场的许多领域都有的一个特性。分析师称，在中国内地，超市业是一个增长迅速且高度分散的行业，与之不同的是，该行业在香港已相当饱和，销售增长也已在近年出现放缓。
Total supermarket sales in Hong Kong rose to 24.1 billion Hong Kong dollars ($3.1 billion) in the first half of the year, up 7.2 percent from the period a year earlier. That was slower than the 10.3 percent sales growth in 2012, and 12.4 percent in 2011, according to government figures.
今年上半年，香港超市的总销售额上升至241亿港元（约合190亿元人民币），比去年同期上涨7.2%。据政府数据，这低于2012年和2011年的增长率，后者分别是10.3%和12.4%。
At the same time, the retailers in Hong Kong have had to grapple with rising costs. Retail rents have doubled in the last 10 years, according to official statistics.
同时，香港的零售商不得不竭力应对成本上升的问题。据官方统计，零售租金在过去的10年里翻了一番。
Hong Kong raised its minimum wage to 30 dollars this year, up from the 28 dollars it had been set at since it was first introduced two years ago.
香港在今年把最低工资上调至30港元，两年前则是28港元，那时候香港刚刚开始设定最低工资。
News that K.K.R. and TPG were no longer in the running for ParknShop was reported earlier on Wednesday by Reuters.
之前，KKR和TPG不再竞购百佳超市的消息已经见诸路透社(Reuters)周三的报道。
Hutchison had announced on July 20 that it had started a strategic review of the supermarket business to “optimize value for shareholders.” But it emphasized that “there can be no assurances that the process will result in any transaction being announced or completed.”
和记黄埔在7月20日宣布，公司已开始对超市业务进行战略评估，以便“优化股东价值”。但该公司强调，“尚不能保证，该过程将导致公司宣布或完成任何交易。”