Soo K. Chan, an architect and developer from Singapore who has designed and built residences, hotels and museums around the world, is launching his first two projects in the United States in New York City. And it seems as if Mr. Chan and his company, SCDA Architects, intend to come on strong, with two condominiums along that magnet for brand-name architects, the High Line.
曾仕乾(Soo K. Chan)是一名来自新加坡的建筑师、开发商，曾在世界各地设计和建造住宅、酒店和博物馆。现在，他正在纽约市里开展他在美国的头两个项目。曾仕乾和他的建筑设计公司SCDA Architects似乎准备大展拳脚，在著名建筑师云集的高线(High Line)一带，建造两栋共管公寓楼。
Both projects will have a watery theme. The facades of his 515 Highline, a 12-unit condo at 515 West 29th Street in West Chelsea that will almost touch the elevated park, will be rippled like the surface of a sea.
两个项目都将以“水”作为主题。其中515 Highline位于西切尔西区(West Chelsea)西29街515号，是一栋包含12个住宅单元的共管公寓楼。它将紧挨着架空的高线公园，外形就像波澜起伏的海面。
And Soori High Line, a 27-unit condo across the street at 522 West 29th, will have not only rooftop pools for residents of its triplex penthouses. More than a dozen lower-floor apartments will also come with private pools to allow residents to float above it all while contemplating the brash buildings that increasingly populate the surrounding blocks.
而街对面的Soori High Line，是一栋包含27个单元的共管公寓楼。其中不仅有屋顶泳池，供三层复式顶层公寓的住户使用；而且那十几套低层公寓里也配备了私家泳池，住户们可以一边浮在水面上，一边欣赏周边街区如雨后春笋般涌现的花哨建筑。
“There are a lot of attention-grabbing attempts here, and if they become gimmicky, it’s unfortunate,” said Cary Tamarkin, another architect-developer, whose 508 West 24th Street, a 15-unit condo with a giant clock facing the High Line, is nearly complete. “But I think these kinds of buildings are only good for a neighborhood that’s becoming a museum of architecture.”
“这里有很多试图吸引眼球的建筑，如果它们成了噱头，那就不好了，”另一位建筑师兼开发商加里·塔马尔金(Cary Tamarkin)说。他正在西24街508号开发一栋包含15个单元的共管公寓楼，上面有一面巨钟正对着高线。该项目目前即将完工，“但是我觉得，在社区里建这种楼房没有好处，除非这个社区以后会变成建筑博物馆。”
Soori High Line, which has a boxy 11-story shape that could be considered subdued for the area, was developed by a team that includes Singapore-based Oriel, of which Mr. Chan is a managing principal, and the New York-based Siras Development. The interiors of the two- to five-bedroom units have ceilings that soar as high as 18 feet, and some walls made of a single sheet of glass.
Soori High Line共有11层，采用了四四方方的外形，这样的设计可被视为因地制宜之举。该楼盘的开发团队包括总部设在新加坡的Oriel——曾仕乾是该公司的高管，以及总部设在纽约的Siras Development公司。两居室到五居室单元的天花板高达18英尺（约合5.5米），有些墙壁由单块玻璃制成。
But the pool-packed Soori High Line may steal the show. The $125 million project, between 10th and 11th Avenues, promises to provide the hard-to-beat thrill of allowing residents to take a dip without having to leave their apartments. Rectangular pools are tucked into alcoves with just one end exposed — in all seasons — to the open air. At most 24 feet long, the 4-foot-deep cubbyhole pools are not intended for serious swimmers.
不过，随处是泳池的Soori High Line这次或许会抢尽风头。这个耗资1.25亿美元（约合人民币7.7亿元）的项目位于第10大道和第11大道之间，有望为住户提供难以匹敌的刺激体验，让住户无需出门就可泡进泳池里。这些矩形泳池设在壁凹里，只有一端暴露在室外，四季如此。其长度最多24英尺（约合7.3米），深4英尺（约合1.2米），可谓小而舒适，但不适合严肃的游泳者。
“Most of the time, it will be a focal point for people to enjoy,” said Mr. Chan, who compared the project to Alila Villas Soori, the pool-adorned beachside resort he built in Bali. At the luxury villas, indoor and outdoor spaces can seem indistinguishable.
“多数时候，它会是人们享受美好时光的重要平台，”曾仕乾说。他说这个项目很像Alila Villas Soori，后者是他在巴厘岛建造的一处装点着泳池的海滨度假别墅。在奢华别墅里，室内外空间的界限可能并不那么分明。
New Yorkers might be loath to don swim trunks after Labor Day, so Soori High Line buyers will have the option of purchasing panels to cover the pool and turn it into a different kind of outdoor space, like a terrace, Mr. Chan explained. But because the pools can be heated to 80 degrees year round, an intrepid owner could soak while watching the snow fall.
曾仕乾解释说，过了劳动节以后，纽约人可能就不愿意穿上泳裤下水了。因此，Soori High Line的购房者可以选择购买镶板，将泳池盖起来，使之变身成为另一类型的室外空间，比如一座露台。不过，由于泳池可以全年加热到80华氏度（约合30摄氏度），胆大的业主也可一边泡在泳池里，一边欣赏落雪。
The pools will definitely be a cornerstone of marketing efforts, said John Gomes, a broker with Douglas Elliman and a leader of the sales team. “They’re so cool, whether you take a dip every day or not.”
这些泳池肯定会成为支持营销宣传的基石，道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman)的经纪人约翰·戈麦斯(John Gomes)如是说，“无论你是不是每天都去游一下，这些泳池都太酷了。”
Since marketing began in Singapore this summer, five units have sold at the building; prices start at about $3,000 a square foot, or $3.7 million for two-bedrooms. The project is scheduled to open in spring 2016.
自从营销活动于今年夏天开始在新加坡展开后，楼内有五个单元已经售出；起价大约在每平方英尺3000美元（约合每平方米人民币21万元），或是一套两居室370万美元（约合人民币2276万元）。这个项目预计在2016年春季对外开放。
“We’re definitely going after buyers from that part of the world,” said Ashwin Verma, a Siras managing partner and a developer who has been active in the High Line area, though through Blackhouse Development.
“我们肯定会争取那里的海外买家。”Siras的主理合伙人阿什温·韦尔马(Ashwin Verma)说。韦尔马一位是活跃在高线一带的开发商，只不过他在高线一带是通过Blackhouse Development公司开展业务。
While many buildings in Manhattan have swimming pools, they tend to be of the shared indoor or rooftop variety. According to a mid-August search of StreetEasy, the real estate website, 705 co-ops and condos for sale advertised pool access, with a few private pools existing in townhouses.
虽然泳池在曼哈顿的楼盘内并不少见，但它们一般都是室内或屋顶的公共泳池。根据地产网站StreetEasy今年8月中旬的一次搜索结果，有705套待售合作公寓和共管公寓，将泳池作为卖点之一；有些私家泳池则设在联排住宅中。
At 515 Highline, meanwhile, Mr. Chan went with a more exuberant exterior, covering the northern and southern sides with curvy glass fins, a treatment similar to one he used on the toy museum he designed in Singapore.
与此同时，在515 Highline，曾仕乾采用了更加华丽的外饰，将大楼的北面和南面饰以波浪起伏的鳍状玻璃片，这种处理和他在新加坡设计的一家玩具博物馆很相似。
Mr. Chan is an investor in the 11-story project, which will have 12 apartments, most floor-throughs; its developer is the Bauhouse Group of New York.
曾仕乾也是515 Highline项目的投资人之一。该项目共11层，将建造12套公寓，其中多数公寓都会占满整个楼层；项目开发商是成立于2012年的纽约Bauhouse集团。
The $70 million project broke ground this summer and will be completed at the end of 2015.
这个耗资7000万美元（约合人民币4.3亿元）的项目，已于今年夏天破土动工，预计将于2015年末完工。
The building’s ribbed facade is not its only unusual feature. It sits at a place where the High Line takes a sharp turn, which will give every apartment a view of the High Line, developers say.
大楼的棱纹立面并非其唯一不同寻常的特色。大楼坐落在高线的一个急转弯处，因此每套公寓里的住户都可以欣赏到高线景观，开发商表示。
And, a dumbwaiter will run from each home to a large kitchen in the basement, so residents can have extra space to prepare large feasts, said Joseph P. Beninati, the managing member of Bauhouse, which was formed in 2012.
此外，有一台送菜升降机，可将菜肴从地下室的一间大厨房送达每套住宅。这样一来，住户就可利用这处额外的空间准备大型宴会了，Bauhouse的董事会成员约瑟夫·P·贝尼纳蒂(Joseph P. Beninati)说。
In addition, a towering 65-by-45-foot space on the building’s flat eastern wall, which faces the High Line, will be dedicated to the display of large artworks. “There can never be a Nike swoosh or a Budweiser Clydesdale on it,” Mr. Beninati said.
此外，在大楼平坦的东墙上，将设置一块65*45英尺（约合19.8米*13.7米）的高耸空间，用于展示大型艺术作品。“那里肯定不会显示耐克(Nike)标志或百威克莱兹代尔马（Budweiser Clydesdale，百威啤酒的品牌大使——译注）。”贝尼纳蒂说。
In terms of development, the site is also unusual. Had the developers torn down the existing six-story brick building, which was used to store wire hangers for garment district businesses, they would have been forced to build a much smaller structure, since zoning laws have changed over the years.
从开发的角度讲，这个楼盘也不同寻常。这里原本是一座六层的砖砌建筑，是时装区(garment district)的工厂存放衣架的地方。要是开发商当初拆掉了这栋建筑，他们就只能被迫建造面积小很多的楼盘了，因为区划法规这些年已经发生了改变。
So, Bauhouse is constructing its tower inside the brick building, as if putting a hand in a glove, so the project can be counted as a conversion and not new construction, said Chris Jones, a Bauhouse co-founder. When the glass portion reaches a certain height later this year, the brick walls will be peeled back and, “Hey, presto, this sort of new building will emerge,” Mr. Jones said.
因此，Bauhouse是在这栋砖砌建筑的内部建造楼房，就好比将手伸进手套里一样。由此一来，这个项目就会被视作改建工程，而非新建工程，Bauhouse的联合创始人克里斯·琼斯(Chris Jones)说。等到今年末，大楼的玻璃部分建造到一定高度后，原本的砖墙就会被剥离，然后“新建筑就会像变魔术一样出现了。”琼斯说。
The only original brick that will remain will serve as space for the artwork. Sales are to begin this fall, after the condo’s offering plan is approved; prices are expected to start at $5 million.
唯一一处保留了砖墙的地方，将用作一处展示艺术作品的空间。销售工作将等到共管公寓的售房计划书获批之后，于今年秋天开始；起价有望达到500万美元（约合人民币3075万元）。