On Sunday, when Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu performed yoga with scores of other people, he lay in the corpse pose, which is an imitation of death. He dozed off. When someone poked him, he sprang up and began rotating his head. It was a joy for metaphor-hunters, because Mr. Prabhu heads an organization that once appeared to be dead but is now, he says, “emerging out of a deep slumber.”
周日，印度铁道部长苏雷什·普拉布(Suresh Prabhu)与另外几十人一起做瑜伽，他躺下做“睡尸式”(corpse pose)，这是个模仿死亡的姿势。他躺着睡着了，有人捅醒他时，他跳起身来开始摇头晃脑。乐于寻找隐喻的人该高兴了，因为普拉布领导的机构一度形如僵死，现在他说，铁道系统“正在从沉睡中醒来”。
Over the decades, India has tried to make its gigantic railway system competent, which has led to several committees that have in turn submitted hundreds of pages of reports. Tired of it all, Narendra Modi, before he became prime minister last year, said if he had the power he would “privatize” the railway.
在过去几十年里，印度一直努力想让该国庞大的铁路系统能够运转得当，于是成立了数个委员会，这些委员会又提交了成百上千页的报告。纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)厌倦了这一切，在去年成为总理之前他就表示，如果获得领导权就会推动铁路“私有化”。
But as prime minister and a practical man, Mr. Modi has abandoned the plan, fearing a revolt by the overstaffed agency’s employees. There is a subdued acceptance now in his government that it is not wise to expect a radical transformation of the railway and that any change will be slow, and far from dramatic.
然而作为总理和一个务实的人，莫迪由于担心遭到这个臃肿机构的职员大肆反对，抛弃了上述方案。如今在他的政府内部，官员们已经不情愿地接受了，期待铁路系统剧烈转型并不明智，任何转变都会很慢，而且远远称不上显著。
To improve the railway, Mr. Prabhu has created yet another committee, which is headed by the industrialist Ratan Tata, who had once lamented the work culture of managers in two British firms that he had planned to acquire. “Friday, from 3:30 p.m.,” he said, “you can’t find anybody in their office.” It would be amusing to know his views of the managers of Indian Railways who can often be found in their offices at 3:30 p.m. on Fridays, but are widely believed to be underworked, inefficient and corrupt. “The golden wisdom in the railway,” according to a retired official who did not wish to be named, “is never take a decision.” It is too risky.
为了改善铁路体系，普拉布又建立了一个委员会，委员会主席是工业家拉坦·塔塔(Ratan Tata)。塔塔曾经哀叹过，他曾经计划收购的两家英国企业的那些经理人，工作态度不佳。“周五，刚3点半，”他说，“他们的办公室里就找不到人了。”印度铁路的管理人员在周五下午3点半时倒是能在办公室里找到，但是他们被普遍认为工作不饱和、效率低，而且腐败。要是知道塔塔对此作何感想，该是多么有趣。“铁路系统的金科玉律，”一位不愿具名的退休官员说，“就是不要做决策。”决策的风险太大了。
Last September, another committee was formed, which was headed by the economist Bibek Debroy, who turned in his report this month. The report takes care to note that it does not recommend the privatization of the railways, but it does recommend that private companies be allowed to take over some of the operations and services. That was still offensive to the railway’s unions, and they plan to protest on Tuesday. On that day they may probably work less than usual.
去年9月，又一个委员会成立了，负责人是经济学家比贝克·德布罗伊(Bibek Debroy)，他这个月已经提交了报告。报告中谨慎地提到，不建议铁路系统私有化，但建议允许私营企业接管一些经营和服务任务。但这仍然激怒了铁路工会，他们计划在周二举行示威。到那一天，他们可能会比平常工作得再少一些。
Indian Railways is primarily a form of employment that also runs trains. It employs more than 1.3 million people, and in the last fiscal year earned about 1.6 trillion rupees, or $25.2 billion, or less than 14 percent of the revenue of Apple. The railway spends almost as much as it earns. Often it turns in a small profit, but that is a result of legally sanctioned accounting wizardry. For instance, the way it calculates depreciation on its assets is not how companies conduct the same exercise. Also, it does not spend as much as it should on upgrading its trains, research or on safety.
印度铁路主要是一个雇主，只是碰巧在经营铁路运输。其雇员有1300万人，在上一财年营收1.6万亿卢比，约合1564亿元人民币，不足苹果的14%。印度铁路花的钱几乎和赚的钱一样多。它时常能有小小的盈利，但那是法律允许的会计花招产生的结果。例如，印度铁路计算资产折旧的方法，就与企业开展相同操作的做法不同。此外，它对列车升级、研发和安全的投资，却达不到应有的水平。
The Debroy committee has recommended that Indian Railways adopt respectable accounting practices, so that the organization and its probable private partners can fully evaluate the economics of running trains.
德布罗伊的委员会建议，印度铁路采用广受尊重的会计规范，从而让该机构自身，以及潜在的私营部门合作伙伴，全面地评估经营铁路的经济效益。
Mr. Prabhu’s overarching solution for rescuing the railway system is to procure more investment from sources that include private corporations. The Debroy committee says that unless the accounting practices of the railway change, it will struggle to lure money from organizations that the Indian government cannot influence.
普拉布为全面拯救铁路系统而提出的方案是，从包括私营企业在内的各种来源筹措投资资金。德布罗伊的委员会表示，除非改革铁路系统的会计操作方式，否则很难从印度政府无法施加影响的实体吸引投资。
Indian Railways operates more than 19,000 trains and carries 23 million passengers every day. India is one of the four countries in the world whose railway systems carry more than a billion tons of freight each year. It is crucial to India’s poor, and passenger fares are so low that the railway system loses about 30 rupees for every kilometer a passenger travels. It makes a profit of about 48 rupees for every kilometer a ton of goods is carried.
印度铁路运营着超过1.9万辆列车，每天搭载2300万名乘客。铁路系统年货物运载量超过10亿吨的国家有四个，印度就是其中一个。铁路对印度的穷人至关重要，客运车票价格极低，一名乘客乘坐一公里火车，铁路系统就会亏损30卢比。而运载一吨货物行驶一公里，则能盈利48卢比。
Apart from trains, the railway also runs over a hundred hospitals, over 150 schools and one college. It has its own police force. The Debroy committee has recommended that the railway, to a degree, give up control over these activities. Indian Railways, the committee suggests, is primarily in the business of running trains.
除了火车之外，印度铁路还经营着超过100座医院、超过150座学校，以及一所高校。印度铁路有自己的警察队伍。德布罗伊委员会建议，铁路系统在一定程度上放弃对这些业务的控制权。委员会提出，印度铁路的主要业务应该是经营火车。