In 1843, Joseph Krug established the House of Krug in Reims, France, at the center of the rich wine-growing region of Champagne. A German-born accountant who had moved to Paris when he was 34, Krug wanted to dispense with “vintages” and create a sparkling wine that could be produced with unwavering consistency every year. He was helped by an aptitude for blending reserve wines, a gift that allowed him to create one of the world’s most sippable Champagnes, Krug Grande Cuvée NV. He said that Champagne should be about perfection, and perfection is ultimately about pleasure. We know this because he wrote it in a journal, discovered in Krug’s archives only two years ago, a copy of which is now on display at the brand’s Maison in Reims.
1843年，约瑟夫·库克(Joseph Krug)在法国兰斯创建了库克香槟酒庄(House of Krug)，那是香槟产区富饶的酿酒中心地带。库克是一名出生在德国的会计师，34岁时移居巴黎，他想要舍弃“年份酒”，创造出一种在每一年都能够保持一致品质的起泡酒。他得益于一种善于混合陈年保留酒的才能，这一项天赋让他得以创造出世界上最经得起品味的香槟之一：库克NV陈年香槟(Krug Grande Cuvée NV)。他说，香槟之美当在于完美，而完美最终又是为了追求愉悦。我们之所以知道这些，是因为他在一本日记里写下来了，日记仅在两年前才在库克的档案库里被发现，一份副本如今正在该品牌的“兰斯之家”(Maison in Reims)里展出。
Today, Krug, now a sixth-generation family business, buys about two-thirds of its grapes from 100 suppliers in the Champagne region, where there are some 280,000 pinot noir and chardonnay vineyards in use, according to Eric Lebel, the House of Krug’s cellar master. Of Lebel’s many jobs, one of the most important is quality control. He pays regular visits to more than 200 regional vineyards, especially in September, when the grapes are harvested. He selects vineyards by the characteristics of their grapes, not by the tonnage they can supply.
今天的库克是已经延续到第六代的家族产业，他们的葡萄有三分之二是从香槟区的100个供应商那里购买的。据库克香槟酒庄的酒窖总管埃里克·勒贝尔(Eric Lebel)说，香槟区有大约28万个黑皮诺和霞多丽葡萄园正在经营。在勒贝尔的大量工作中，其中一项最重要的就是质量监控。他定期探访该地区的200多个葡萄园，尤其是在9月葡萄收成的时候。他挑选葡萄园时，是看它们所出产葡萄的品质，而不是它们所能供应的吨数。
By autumn, Krug’s base wines are created. A diverse tasting committee convenes three times a week, registering around 5,000 records over the course of five months.Lebel then plods the notes, and by March will have a sketch of the year’s take. He fills in any flavor blanks (Grande Cuvée NV is essentially an oenological jigsaw puzzle), by blending the base wines from that year with some 150 wines from ten different vintages. The entire process from harvest to maturation can last anywhere from 7 to 17 years, whether it’s Grande Cuvée NV or a Krug vintage.
到了秋天，库克香槟的基酒就要被制造出来。由各方人组成的试酒委员会每周三次聚集起来，在前后五个月时间内留下大约5000份记录。然后，勒贝尔就在这些记录中一步一步地研究，到了3月，他就会有这一年选酒方案的蓝图。他要填补所有香气的漏洞（本质上，库克陈年香槟就是一幅酿酒学的拼图），方法就是将那一年的基酒与来自十个不同年份的150种酒相互混合。
Krug also has its own 17th-century Chardonnay vineyard, Clos du Mesnil, in the village of Mesnil-sur-Oger, access to which is usually granted only to employees. The cloistered vineyard, which the Krug family maintains to be the purest expression of chardonnay, is locked behind high, protective walls that provide the grapes with a superior microclimate. It’s one of 12 walled vineyards in the Champagne region, with an annual output of between 2,000 and 10,000 bottles.
库克也有自己的霞多丽葡萄园——可以上溯到17世纪的梅斯尼庄园(Clos du Mesnil)，位于市镇奥热河畔梅斯尼(Mesnil-sur-Oger)，这里通常只允许工作人员进入。这座偏远的葡萄园，在库克家族的维护下，一直是霞多丽葡萄最纯粹的绽放之地。它被封锁在高高的护墙后面，让葡萄得到了优质的微型气候。它是香槟区里12个被围墙围起来的葡萄园之一，每年出产2000至10000瓶葡萄酒。
At the House’s Maison in Reims, employees take particular pride in their association with the brand. One told a story about an afternoon a few years ago, when some archived vintages were being moved and a bottle fell and cracked along the neck. Everyone rushed to sample the damaged bottle’s contents and guess the vintage. Because the Champagne was bright and crisp without a hint of having gone off, most guessed 1960 or 1970, but the bottled dated to 1915.
在“兰斯之家”，雇员们都为自己与品牌的联系而倍感自豪。其中一个还说起了几年前某个下午发生的故事。当时人们正在搬动一些存档的年份酒，而其中一瓶掉在了地上，瓶颈处破裂了。所有人都赶忙将破瓶子里的酒取样，并且猜测酒的年份。因为那一瓶香槟的颜色鲜亮通透，没有任何一丝变质的痕迹，大多数人猜测它是1960或1970年的，但这一瓶装酒的日期却是1915年。
Owned by LVMH since 1999, Krug’s operations have never been open to the public. But this week, Lebel offered a rare look into the winemaker’s maison and private vineyard, revealing the alchemy required to make the perfect Krug Grande Cuvée NV.
自从1999年开始为路威酩轩(LVMH)所拥有之后，库克酒庄的运作从来没有向公众公开过。但是这一周，勒贝尔提供了一个少有的察看这家酿酒商的基地和私人葡萄园的机会，揭示酿造完美库克陈年香槟的秘密。