Coming after a ho-hum stretch in museums, the 2013-14 art season promises an unusually interesting mix of material from the distant past and art that engages with a politically fraught present. As the months go by, we should get a sense of what our art institutions can do when they depart, even a little, from the obvious.
在经历了一段沉闷的时光之后，2013-2014的博物馆艺术季有望变得非常有趣，既有来自遥远过去的内容，也有与当今政治相结合的艺术。接下来的几个月，我们应该能体会到我们的艺术机构在稍微远离平淡之后能带给我们什么惊喜。
The surprises start with what won’t be there. Astonishingly, those box-office artists in residence Matisse and Picasso are on leave of absence, though their seats will be kept warm by familiar Modernist peers, with solo shows by Balthus at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (opening Sept. 25), Braque at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (Feb. 16); Léger at the Philadelphia Museum of Art (Oct. 14); Magritte at the Museum of Modern Art (Sept. 28); and Robert Motherwell (with early collages, his best work) at the Guggenheim Museum (Sept. 27).
惊喜首先在于终于没有某些人的展览了。那些受欢迎的长驻艺术家们，比如马蒂斯(Matisse)和毕加索(Picasso)，终于休假了，不过他们的位置将被其他我们熟悉的现代主义画家们占据，比如大都会艺术博物馆的巴尔蒂斯(Balthus)个展（9月25日开幕）、休斯顿美术馆的布拉克(Braque)个展（2月16日开幕）、费城艺术博物馆的莱热(Léger)个展（10月14日开幕）、现代艺术博物馆的马格里特(Magritte)个展（9月28日开幕）以及古根海姆博物馆的罗伯特·马瑟韦尔（Robert Motherwell，将展示他早期的拼贴画，那是他最好的作品）个展（9月27日开幕）。
Traveling much further back in time at the Met, I’m particularly looking forward to “Medieval Treasures From Hildesheim” (Sept. 17), which will bring together sacred objects associated with one of the great churches of Western Europe. If the result has anything like the impact of the museum’s Basel cathedral treasury display of several years back, the show will be one of the stealth discoveries of the year.
我特别期待大都会博物馆的一场追溯到很久以前的展览——《来自希尔德斯海姆教堂的中世纪瑰宝》（Medieval Treasures From Hildesheim，9月17日开幕）。这场展览将把与这座西欧最好的教堂之一有关的宗教物品集中展示给我们。如果这场展览能与几年前该博物馆展示的巴塞尔大教堂的宝物相媲美，那它将成为本年度最不为人所知的发现之一。
“Heaven and Earth: Art of Byzantium from Greek Collections,” at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, with bejeweled religious and secular work, should generate a comparable glow. As should “Yoga: The Art of Transformation,” a visual overview of a spiritual discipline that grew from esoteric beginnings in ancient India to become an international phenomenon. The exhibition opens at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington, on Oct. 19, and travels to Cleveland and San Francisco.
华盛顿的国家艺术馆举办的“天与地：希腊藏品中的拜占庭艺术”(Heaven and Earth: Art of Byzantium from Greek Collections)将展出用珠宝装饰的宗教和世俗作品，应该能与大都会博物馆的展览一争高下。“瑜伽：变形的艺术”(Yoga: The Art of Transformation)应该具有同样的效应，这场展览从视觉的角度回顾了这个精神修炼从古印度神奇起源而后演变成一个全球现象的过程。这场展览10月19日在华盛顿的阿瑟·M·萨克勒美术馆(Arthur M. Sackler Gallery)开幕，之后将前往克利夫兰和旧金山展出。
Other shows take internationalism as their theme. The Met’s “Interwoven Globe: The Worldwide Textile Trade, 1500-1800,” culled from the museum’s deep closets, is one (Sept. 16). Another is “Kongo Across the Waters,” which opens on Oct. 22 at the Harn Museum at the University of Florida, Gainesville, and draws on little-studied archaeological material to document the rise of the powerful Kongo kingdom in West Africa, its early contacts with Europe, and its far-reaching influence on the history of the African-Americas.
其他一些展览以国际主义为主题。其中一个是大都会博物馆的“编织地球：全球纺织贸易，1500-1800”（Interwoven Globe: The Worldwide Textile Trade, 1500-1800），由从该博物馆最深的壁橱里选出的物品组成（9月16日开幕）。另一个是“跨越水域的刚果”(Kongo Across the Waters)。该展览将于10月22日在盖恩斯维尔的佛罗里达大学哈恩博物馆(Harn Museum)开幕，利用极少被研究的考古资料来记录西非强大的刚果王国的崛起，它与欧洲的早期接触，以及它对非裔美国人历史的长远影响。
African-American history is a natural focus in a season that coincides with the half-century anniversary of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. The subject is front and center in “Witness: Art, Activism and Civil Rights” at the Brooklyn Museum (April 6 to Aug. 10). And it’s implicit in “Tell It With Pride: the 54th Massachusetts Regiment and August Saint-Gaudens’ Shaw Memorial” at the National Gallery of Art in Washington. This small show takes a close-up look at a sculptural homage to an ill-fated Union Army unit in the Civil War. Although the monument carries the name of the regiment’s white leader, Robert Gould Shaw, the soldiers he led, and died with, were black (Sept. 15 to Jan. 20).
这个展览季正好跟1964年《民权法案》颁布50周年重合，非裔美国人的历史自然是个焦点。一个以此为主题的展览是布鲁克林博物馆的“见证：艺术、行动主义和民权”（Witness: Art, Activism and Civil Rights，4月6日至8月10日）。另一个暗含该主题的展览是华盛顿国家艺术馆的“骄傲地说出来：第54马萨诸塞军团和奥古斯特·圣高登斯的《肖纪念碑》”（Tell It With Pride: the 54th Massachusetts Regiment and August Saint-Gaudens’ Shaw Memorial，9月15日至1月20日）。这个小型展览聚焦于一个纪念美国内战中一个不幸的联邦军团的雕像。虽然该纪念碑以该军团的白人领导人罗伯特·古尔德·肖(Robert Gould Shaw)命名，但是他领导并一同战死的士兵们是黑人。
Reminders that the full achievement of civil rights — pertaining to race, class and sex — remains very much a work in progress comes through in exhibitions of contemporary art. The photographer Carrie Mae Weems makes this the propelling theme of an extraordinary retrospective, encompassing three decades of African-American life, that arrives at the Guggenheim on Jan. 24. In a very different way, Wangechi Mutu, a young artist born in East Africa, blends ethnicity, sexuality and colonialism in her fantastically inventive collages, seen at the Brooklyn Museum starting Oct. 11.
要完全实现民权——与种族、阶级和性别有关的所有权利——需要不断努力。当代艺术展览在不断提醒我们这一点。摄影师凯莉·梅·维姆斯(Carrie Mae Weems)把这变成了一个特别回顾展的主题，包含了非裔美国人30年的生活。该展览将于1月24日在古根海姆博物馆开幕。出生在东非的年轻艺术家瓦格希·姆图(Wangechi Mutu)用非常不同的方式把种族、性别和殖民主义融合在她奇妙的创意拼贴画中。这场展览将于10月11日在布鲁克林博物馆开幕。
All these elements will certainly figure into “Ruffneck Constructivists,” a group show about the complications and perversities of “racial” thinking, which is being organized by the artist Kara Walker for the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia (Feb. 12) and should have particular resonance in the wake of the death of Trayvon Martin and its aftermath. And politics is, inevitably, soaked into the fabric of the two-part “Radical Presence: Black Performance in Contemporary Art.” Part 1 was scheduled to open at at Grey Art Gallery, at New York University, on Tuesday, running through Dec. 7, while Part 2, at The Studio Museum in Harlem, will open on Nov. 14, when it will overlap with the run of Performa 13, New York City’s performance art biennial (Nov. 1 to 24).
所有这些元素肯定会出现在“鲁夫奈克建构主义者”（Ruffneck Constructivists，2月12日开幕）中，这是一个关于“种族”思考的并发症和邪恶性的集体展览，由艺术家卡拉·沃克(Kara Walker)为费城的当代艺术协会组织的；在特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)枪击案及其余波的影响下一定会引起特别的共鸣。政治必然会融入“激进的表现：当代艺术中的黑人表演”(Radical Presence: Black Performance in Contemporary Art)展览中。该展览分两部分，第一部分从周二至10月7日在纽约大学的格雷艺术馆(Grey Art Gallery)展出，第二部分将于11月14日在哈莱姆区的工作室博物馆(The Studio Museum)开幕，届时纽约市表演艺术双年展“表演13”(Performa 13)也将举行。
Performa itself, in its fifth edition this fall, would do well to take a lesson from another concurrent show, this one opening at the Whitney Museum of American Art on Oct. 31. Titled “Rituals of Rented Island: Object Theater, Loft Performance, and the New Psychodrama — Manhattan 1970-1980,” it promises to revisit an era in New York when performance art was still a daringly ephemeral, market-challenging medium, not the big-ticket, deluxe, staged and restaged thing it has become.
“表演13”今年秋天是第五次举行，它将会很好地借鉴另一场同时进行的展览——10月31日在惠特尼美国艺术博物馆开幕的“租来的小岛的仪式：物体剧院、阁楼表演和新心理剧——曼哈顿1970-1980”(Rituals of Rented Island: Object Theater, Loft Performance, and the New Psychodrama — Manhattan 1970-1980)。该展览致力于重现当年的纽约，当时表演艺术还只是一种短暂的、受市场质疑的媒介，而不是如今这种昂贵、奢华、能多次上演的艺术形式。
The art world’s current backward-glancing mood is well served by documentary flashbacks far and near. An especially intriguing example, “JFK November 22, 1963: A Bystander’s View of History,” assembled for the 50th anniversary of John F. Kennedy’s assassination, opens at the International Center of Photography on Oct. 4, while “After Effects: Photographs from Super Storm Sandy,” at the Museum of the City of New York, brings back the realities of environmental turbulence from just last year (Nov. 20).
艺术界目前的怀旧情绪在对以前和最近发生的事情的纪实重现中得到了很好的释放。一个特别有趣的例子是“约翰·F·肯尼迪，1963年11月22日：一个旁观者眼中的历史”(JFK November 22, 1963: A Bystander’s View of History)。这场展览是为了纪念约翰·F·肯尼迪被刺50周年，将于10月4日在国际摄影中心开幕。而纽约市博物馆即将举办的“后效应：超级飓风桑迪摄影展”（After Effects: Photographs from Super Storm Sandy，11月20日）则回顾的是去年发生的重大气候事件。
And I anticipate with pleasure the chance to spend time with artists who have, in one way or other made history, past and present, the subject of their work. This is certainly the case with Art Spiegelman, who dared to tackle the Holocaust in the form of a graphic novel and whose long-awaited retrospective opens at the Jewish Museum on Nov. 8.
我带着愉快的心情期待有机会与那些通过某种方式以过去和现在的历史作为作品主题的艺术家们共度时光。阿特·斯皮格曼(Art Spiegelman)肯定是这样的艺术家，他敢于用绘画小说来描述纳粹大屠杀，关于他的期待已久的回顾展将于11月8日在犹太博物馆开幕。
The veteran American conceptualist Mel Chin has been making socially engaged, ethically-driven work about environmental catastrophe since the 1970s, effectively forecasting history as it unfolded. And the young French filmmaker Camille Henrot, winner of the Silver Lion award for most promising newcomer at this year’s Venice Biennale, is doing something now. Both artists will have shows at the New Orleans Museum of Art, with Ms. Henrot’s opening on Oct. 11, Mr. Chin’s on Feb. 21.
美国资深概念派艺术家陈貌仁(Mel Chin)一直在创作与20世纪70年代以来的环境灾难有关的社会、伦理作品，准确预见后来发生的历史。年轻的法国电影制作人卡米尔·亨罗特(Camille Henrot)在今年的威尼斯双年展上获得了最具潜力艺术新人银狮奖。这两位艺术家都将在新奥尔良艺术博物馆举办展览，亨罗特的展览将于10月11日开幕，陈貌仁的展览将于2月21日开幕。
It will be good to revisit the art of Mike Kelley, irrepressible chronicler of the underbelly of American pop culture, in a career overview traveling from Europe to MoMA PS1, Oct. 13 to Feb. 2. And I’m eager to become fully acquainted with the work of two South American figures who have had scant exposure here. The Bronx Museum of the Arts offers a substantial view of the Brazilian artist Paulo Bruscky who, in the 1960s, used mail art to tell the world about life under military dictatorship. The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, will survey the equally potent art of resistance created by Antonio Berni in Argentina (Nov. 10).
能重温麦克·凯利(Mike Kelley)的艺术作品将是件很好的事，他记录了美国流行文化的要害。关于他的回顾展将从欧洲来到现代艺术博物馆（10月13日至2月2日）。我期待全面了解两位南美艺术家的作品，他们在美国没有得到足够的展示。布朗克斯艺术博物馆收集了巴西艺术家保罗·布拉斯基(Paulo Bruscky)的大量作品，他在20世纪60年代利用邮件艺术向世人展示了军事独裁下的生活。休斯顿美术馆将纵览阿根廷艺术家安东尼奥·贝尔尼(Antonio Berni)的同样有说服力的反抗艺术。
Finally, Peter Schumann, who founded Bread and Puppet Theater on the streets of New York in the 1960s and has kept it alive on a farm in Vermont since, is, at last getting the showcase he deserves at the refurbished Queens Museum beginning Oct. 13.
彼得·舒曼(Peter Schumann)在20世纪60年代的纽约街头成立了“面包与木偶剧团”(Bread and Puppet Theater)，后来让它在佛蒙特的一个农场存活下来。他终于在修饰一新的皇后博物馆得到了应有的呈现，展览从10月13日开始。
Museums are odd places, mixed blessings. By categorizing objects, separating cultures, and simplifying history, they can truncate truth and flatten values. A show called “Take It or Leave It: Institution, Image, Ideology” at the Hammer Museum, University of California, Los Angeles, will critically consider this reality (Feb. 8). And another California show, this one at the Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive, will, with luck, offer an alternative to it.
博物馆是个奇怪的地方，一个有利亦有弊的地方。通过把物品分类、分割文化、简化历史，它能删节事实、抹平价值观。位于洛杉矶的加州大学海默博物馆(Hammer Museum)举办的“要么接受要么放弃：制度、想象、意识形态”(Take It or Leave It: Institution, Image, Ideology)将批判性地思考这个事实（2月8日开幕）。加州的另一场展览——位于伯克利艺术博物馆和太平洋电影档案馆的展览——将幸运地从另一个角度分析这个问题。
Organized by Lawrence Rinder and David Wilson, it will invite an interdisciplinary bunch of local makers and doers — artists, performers, craftsmen, teachers — to pool their talents and desires and create an exhibition organically, day by day, keeping the emphasis on process rather than on achievement, and leaving the definition of achievement loose in the air. The show is called “The Possible,” which is my watchword for the season ahead.
劳伦斯·林德尔(Lawrence Rinder)和戴维·威尔森(David Wilson)将邀请各行各业的当地人——艺术家、表演者、手工艺人和教师——把他们的才华和欲望一起发挥出来，创造一个有机的、每天不断变化的展览。该展览重视过程而非成果，并令“成果”的定义变得不确定。这场展览名叫“可能”(The Possible)，这正是我对即将到来的展览季的概括。