Cape Town — Last month, 23,000 people signed a petition calling for a boycott of the South African artist Brett Bailey’s latest show, “Exhibit B,” at London’s prestigious Barbican Center.
开普敦——上个月，2.3万人签署请愿书，呼吁抵制南非艺术家布莱特·贝利(Brett Bailey)在伦敦巴比肯艺术中心(Barbican Center)展示的最新作品《物证 B》(Exhibit B)。
Mr. Bailey’s performance was inspired by and is, in part, a retrospective on the “human zoos” in which Africans were displayed as primitive freak-show exhibits for the viewing pleasure of 19th-century European audiences. It features black actors exhibited semi-nude, caged, chained, gagged and bound, catalogued, painted, and as disembodied heads singing in choral lament in a series of museum-style installations that re-enact some of the worst atrocities Europeans have visited on Africans.
贝利作品的灵感来自19世纪欧洲观众将非洲人当原始怪物观赏的“人类动物园”，一定程度上也是对此的回顾。一系列博物馆风格的装置作品力求重现欧洲人强加到非洲人身上的一些最恶劣的暴行：黑人演员身体半裸、关在牢笼里、被锁链拴住、绑住手脚堵住嘴、编入图录、涂上颜料，同时还有与身体分离的一颗颗头颅合唱挽歌。
A loud but peaceful protest greeted the show on Sept. 23, its opening night. Mr. Bailey and the Barbican immediately cried censorship and hastily canceled the remaining four performances, citing supposed concerns for the safety of the performers and audiences.
9月23日，展览开幕的当晚，出现了声势浩大而和平的抗议活动。贝利本人和巴比肯中心立即高呼遭遇审查，很快取消了余下的四场表演，给出的所谓理由是担心演员和观众的安全。
The controversy the show has attracted is reminiscent of the uproar over the New York artist Joe Scanlan’s fictional black woman artist, “Donelle Woolford,” played by hired actresses. In May, work purported to be by Ms. Woolford was included in the Whitney Museum of American Art’s spring biennial lineup. Black artists objected and some withdrew their work from the show, arguing that the biennial grossly underrepresented actual black female artists and featured only a few as a superficial gesture. The inclusion of a fictitious black woman only aggravated their concerns.
这一展览引发的争议，让人想起纽约艺术家乔·斯坎伦(Joe Scanlan)创作的虚构黑人女艺术家“多内尔·伍尔福德”(Donelle Woolford)——由请来的女演员饰演——引发的激愤。今年5月，归于伍尔福德名下的作品入选了惠特尼美国艺术博物馆(Whitney Museum of American Art)的春季双年展。黑人艺术家对此予以反对，一些人从双年展撤回了自己的作品，认为其中的真实黑人女艺术家严重缺失，仅有少数几位装点门面。一名虚构的黑人女性的入选只能让他们更为不安。
Similarly, in London, the reactions of Mr. Bailey, the Barbican and London’s white-dominated arts scene to the petition and protest have only served to underscore the racism inherent in the design of “Exhibit B.”
与此类似，在伦敦，贝利本人、巴比肯中心及以白人为主的伦敦艺术圈对请愿书和抗议活动的回应，不过是突显了《物证 B》的设计中固有的种族主义。
As the piece consists of a series of tableaux vivants, the performers do not speak and they do not move. They only confront the audience with direct eye contact.
作品中包含一系列的活人造型展示，演员既不发声也不移动，只是通过直接的目光接触来与观众对峙。
Mr. Bailey opted for the shock value of using actual people, because audience members and their reactions are said to be part of each installation, thus establishing the performance as an ostensible confrontation of racism. But if the audience is, by design, part of the performance, then so, too, is Mr. Bailey, who skulks around during performances, gauging the reactions of the audience.
贝利之所以选择使用真人的震撼效果，是因为据说观众及其反馈是每件装置作品的组成部分，这样就能将本次展出变成貌似真实地直面种族主义。不过，如果说观众被故意设计成表演的一部分，那么，在展出过程中悄然走来走去评估观众反应的贝利，也是表演的一部分。
The piece narrows the experience of being black by depicting blackness only as suffering. And it presents this caricature of blackness and the bodies of the performers to white audiences, who can then pick apart the guilt, shame, denial or dissociation they might personally feel from being beneficiaries of and perhaps co-conspirators in racism.
这一作品将身为黑人的经历进行了狭隘处理，仅仅描绘了受苦受难的一面。而且，它将这种黑人属性的夸张描绘连带表演者的身体一同呈现给白人观众，让他们消解作为种族主义的受益者甚或同谋而可能会私下感受到的内疚、耻辱、否认或疏离。
Individual performers in the piece, like Stella Odunlami, have said they felt empowered by exposing a sordid chapter of history and confronting the audience with it. Still, the piece reduces the actors’ role to that of a stress ball delivered to white audiences to work through whatever emotional anguish might come from facing up to the brutality on which the prosperity of Europe and its diaspora was built.
作品中的个体表演者，比如斯泰拉·奥敦拉米(Stella Odunlami)表示，他们觉得，通过揭开历史的伤疤并让观众直接加以面对，自己获得了力量。虽说如此，这个展览还是将演员的作用矮化为呈送给白人观众的减压阀：当他们直面欧洲及其海外移民的繁荣昌盛所基于的种种暴行时，这些演员让他们得以克服或许会从中感受到的精神痛苦。
They are also the living masks from behind which Mr. Bailey confronts white people about racism. Mr. Bailey has in effect used the economic and social power conferred to him as a white South African by colonialism and apartheid to create art that turns black bodies into therapeutic objects for white people.
演员还是贝利用来让白人直面种族主义的活生生的挡箭牌。实际上，他利用了身为南非白人而从殖民主义和种族隔离中获得的经济与社会影响力，创造出的作品却将黑人的身体物化为呈送给白人的治愈工具。
It was therefore shameful that Mr. Bailey and the Barbican went on the defensive when charges of racism were leveled against them. They branded the protesters — comprised of anti-racism activists, artists, writers and performers, many of whom were African or of African descent — “extreme” and a security threat while accusing them of “mob hysteria.”
因此，当受到种族主义的指责时，贝利和巴比肯中心的辩护令人遗憾。他们将抗议者——包括反对种族主义的活动人士、艺术家、作家和演员，其中很多是非洲人或非洲裔——定性为“极端”，指责他们“暴徒式的歇斯底里”威胁到人员安全。
Many of the petitioners and protesters wanted the performance to be scrapped, and they were within their rights to call for it. But what they wanted more was for Mr. Bailey and the Barbican to engage meaningfully with their complaint. Instead of engagement, both Mr. Bailey and the Barbican ducked accountability — and that’s a shame. Had their reaction not been so defensive, “Exhibit B” could have been a profound and meaningful exposition of racism, old and new.
许多请愿者和抗议者希望取消展出，他们也完全有权发出这样的呼声。然而，他们更希望的是，贝利和巴比肯中心严肃对待他们的控诉。可是，二者并未加以面对，而是逃避责任——实在遗憾。倘若他们的反应不是这么卖力地自辩，《物证 B》本可以成为对新旧种族主义的一次有意义的卓越展示。
“Exhibit B” has generated far less debate in Mr. Bailey’s home country compared to the slow-building controversy that has stalked the performance as it tours Europe (it will be performed in Paris next month). That’s because it was only staged once in South Africa at an arts festival too pricey to be accessible to the average black South African.
比起《物证 B》在欧洲巡展期间（下月将去巴黎）招惹的逐渐累积起来的争议，它在贝利的家乡激起的辩论要少得多。那是因为，它只在南非的一个艺术节上展示了一回，而那次的艺术节对南非的普通黑人而言实在负担不起。
This places it in stark contrast to another piece, “The Spear,” a painting by the white South African artist Brett Murray that featured South Africa’s president, Jacob Zuma, with his pants down in a supposed commentary on the president’s polygamy, promiscuity and many children. The artist faced a barrage of criticism and the painting was eventually vandalized in a gallery. Mr. Murray denied any racist intent behind his painting, which transposes Mr. Zuma and his exposed genitals onto an old Vladimir Lenin poster.
这让《物证 B》与另一件作品《茅》(The Spear)形成了鲜明对照。《茅》是南非艺术家布莱特·默里(Brett Murray)的画作，以褪下底裤的南非总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)为主角，据称是为了讽刺他一夫多妻、滥交多子。默里饱受抨击，画作最终也在一间展馆里遭到毁坏。在那幅画中，祖马及其暴露的下体嫁接到了一张老的弗拉基米尔·列宁(Vladimir Lenin)海报上，但默里否认自己的作品中有任何种族主义意图。