The Deep South was, quite literally, a black and white world in 1965, when Congress approved the Voting Rights Act, sweeping away barriers that kept African-Americans from the polls.
1965年的美国南方腹地是个毫不夸张的黑白分明的世界，当时国会通过了《选举权法》(Voting Rights Act)，清除了阻止非裔美国人参与投票的种种限制。
And the Supreme Court decision on Tuesday, which struck down a key part of the law, is certain to set off a series of skirmishes over voting regulations between the white Republicans who control Southern state legislatures and civil rights groups seeking to maximize black voter clout.
最高法院周二的裁决废除了该法案的一个重要部分，肯定会激起一系列有关投票规则的冲突。冲突的一方是控制南方各州立法机构的白人共和党人，另一方是寻求将黑人选民影响力最大化的民权组织。
But those who have studied the region closely say that a more unstoppable force is approaching that will alter the power structure throughout the South and upend the understanding of politics there: demographic change.
但是仔细研究过该地区的人说，一股更加难以阻挡的力量正在出现，将改变整个南方的权力结构，颠覆那里的政治认识。这股力量就是人口结构变化。
The states with the highest growth in the Latino population over the last decade are in the South, which is also absorbing an influx of people of all races moving in from other parts of the country.
上一个十年中，拉丁裔人口增长最快的州就在南方。南方也正在吸收着来自美国其他地方各个族裔的人口。
While most experts expect battles over voting restrictions in the coming years, they say that ultimately those efforts cannot hold back the wave of change that will bring about a multiethnic South.
尽管多数专家认为未来几年会出现针对投票限制的斗争，但他们说，最终，限制措施不能阻止将会使南方多种族化的变化浪潮。
“All the voter suppression measures in the world aren’t going to be enough to eventually stem this rising tide,” said Representative David E. Price, a veteran North Carolina Democrat and a political scientist by training.
政治学专业出身的北卡罗来纳州资深民主党人、众议员戴维·E·普莱斯(David E. Price)说，“世界上所有的选民压制措施都不足以最终阻挡这股高涨的浪潮。”
As the region continues to change, Republicans who control legislatures in the South will confront a basic question: how to retain political power when the demographics are no longer on your side.
随着该地区继续发生变化，控制南方立法机构的共和党人会面临一个基本问题：当人口结构不利于你时，如何维持政治权力？
The temptation in the short term, now that the Supreme Court has significantly relaxed federal oversight, may be to pass laws and gerrymander districts to protect Republican political power and limit the influence of the new more diverse population.
现在最高法院大幅放松了联邦监督，短期内的诱惑也许是，通过法律及为政党利益重划选区，以保护共和党的政治权力，并且限制新的更加多样化人口的影响力。
But that could be devastating to the party’s long-term prospects, especially if it is seen as discriminating against the groups that will make up an ever larger share of the future electorate.
但是这对该党的长远前景具有毁灭性影响，尤其是如果这样做被视为是歧视一个在将来的选民中占越来越大比重的群体的话。
The law guaranteeing political equality for blacks was passed nearly a half-century ago, in the wake of the startling images of violence in Selma, Ala.
将近50年前，在阿拉巴马州塞尔玛暴力事件的惊人情景出现之后，保障黑人平等政治权利的法律获得通过。
The act eventually imposed federal oversight over nine states and other jurisdictions, requiring them to seek preapproval for election laws, like voter identification measures, redistricting maps and rules related to the mechanics of elections, like polling hours.
该法案最终将联邦监督强加在9个州及其他行政区之上，要求它们在通过与选举有关的法律前寻求联邦政府的预先批准。与选举有关的法律包括选民身份确认措施、重新划分选区，以及投票时间等有关选举技术性细节的规定。
The Supreme Court on Tuesday essentially struck down those preapproval requirements, which had deterred states and localities from passing legislation that they knew would meet with resistance from civil rights advocates and result in protracted fights. 
最高法院在周二基本上废除了这些寻求预先批准的要求。这些要求曾经阻碍了几个州及地方通过一些法律，地方立法机构也知道这些法律会遭到民权行动人士的抵制，并会导致旷日持久的斗争。
But the most meaningful impact of the ruling may be seen in the decade to come, when Southern states — freed from federal preclearance requirements — take up the redrawing of legislative districts amid much more complex racial politics than in the days of Jim Crow.
但是，该决定最有意义的影响可能会在未来十年内显现出来。不再受联邦预先批准要求束缚的南方各州，会在比黑人隔离法（Jim Crow，美国从1876年到1965年施行的州及地方法律——译注）时代更加复杂的种族政治环境中，重新划分立法选区。
“The South is going to start looking more like California eventually,” said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.
全国拉美裔当选及任命官员协会(National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials)执行主席阿图罗·瓦尔加斯(Arturo Vargas)说，“最终，南方将开始看上去越来越像加利福尼亚。”
For years, black and white legislators in the South have agreed to district lines that, thanks to racial packing, create safe seats for both black Democrats and white Republicans. The Obama administration’s Department of Justice approved nearly every Southern redistricting map, written by Republicans, after the 2010 census.
多年来，南方的黑人及白人立法者都认同的分区方式是，通过同种族拼合，为黑人民主党人及白人共和党人制造保险席位的投票分区。在2010年人口普查之后，奥巴马政府的司法部(Department of Justice)批准了共和党人绘制的每一次南方重新分区图。
The one exception, Texas, offers a window into what the future may look like in a multiracial South. With almost 90 percent of its growth owing to a mix of new Hispanic, Asian and black voters, Republican legislators in Texas drew new districts in 2011 that were rejected by a federal court as discriminatory because they didn’t sufficiently recognize the political power of the new demographics.
唯一的例外是德克萨斯州，而该州能为人们提供一个看到将来多种族的南方是什么样子的窗口。德克萨斯州90%的人口增长来自新的西语裔、亚裔及黑人选民等混合群体。联邦法庭拒绝批准共和党立法者2011年重新划分的选区，认为该划分没有充分承认新人口构成的政治力量，是歧视性的。
Just as Texas is now, Georgia will, thanks to polyglot Atlanta, eventually become a state where it will be difficult for Republicans to produce a redistricting map that protects their majority in perpetuity. Georgia’s Hispanic population nearly doubled between 2000 and 2010, according to federal census data.
就像德克萨斯州现在一样，佐治亚州首府亚特兰大已是一个多语种城市，佐治亚州最终也会变成一个共和党人很难重新划分选区以永远保护其多数优势的州。联邦人口调查数据显示，在2000年到2010年，佐治亚州的西语裔人口几乎翻番。
State Representative Stacey Abrams of Georgia, the Democratic leader, said Republican efforts to resist change would trigger a backlash.
佐治亚州民主党领袖、州众议员史黛丝·艾布拉姆斯(Stacey Abrams)说，共和党抵抗变化的努力会引发巨大的反弹。
“They’re going to be tempted to try to take advantage of this, but they risk permanently alienating a population that will eventually be able to take its revenge,” Ms. Abrams said. “Given how quickly our Asian and Latino populations are growing and how much of the electorate they’re going to represent, to constrain their voting power would be a recipe for disaster.”
艾布拉姆斯说，“他们会被诱惑，试图从最高法院判决上得到好处，但是他们那样做所冒的风险是，可能会永久地疏远一个人口群，而这个人口群最终会报复共和党。考虑到我们州的亚裔和拉丁裔人口的增长速度，以及他们将在选民中占的比例，限制他们的投票权将会是一个灾难。”