WASHINGTON — The two men in open-collar shirts sat facing each other, papers and a BlackBerry strewn on a coffee table, sober looks on both their faces. One leaned forward, gesturing with his left hand, clearly doing the talking. The other sat back in his chair, two fingers pressed to his temple as he listened intently.
华盛顿——两名穿着开领衬衫的男子，面对面地坐着，茶几上散放着文件和一部黑莓手机，两人的脸色都很凝重。其中一人身体前倾，左手比划着什么，显然正在说话。另一个人后背靠在自己的椅子里，两个手指按在自己的太阳穴上，专注地听对方讲话。
When violence erupted after a police shooting in Missouri last week, President Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. huddled on Martha’s Vineyard where both were on vacation. But two of the most powerful men in the nation confront its enduring racial divide, they come at it from fundamentally different backgrounds and points of view.
上周，在密苏里州，警察枪杀一名男子后引发了暴力活动，当时奥巴马和司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)在玛莎葡萄园岛聚面，因为两人都在那里度假。但是这个国家里两个最有权势的人物，在面对长期存在的种族鸿沟时，却有着完全不同的背景和观点。
Mr. Holder, 63, is the one leaning forward, both in the photograph released by the White House and on the issues underlying the crisis in Ferguson, Mo. A child of the civil rights era, he grew up shaped by the images of violence in Selma, Ala., and joined sit-ins at Columbia University where protesters renamed an office after Malcolm X. Now in high office, he pushes for policy changes and is to fly on Wednesday to Ferguson to personally promise justice.
霍尔德现年63岁；无论是在白宫发布的照片​​中，还是在对待密苏里州弗格森危机的深层问题上，他都是前倾的那个人。霍尔德的童年正值民权时代，阿拉巴马州塞尔玛的暴力场景极大地影响了他的成长。他曾参加哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的静坐示威活动，抗议者们当时以马尔科姆·X(Malcolm X)的名字给一个办公室重新命名。如今身居高位的他，不仅努力推动政策变化，而且还将在本周三飞往弗格森，亲自向大家承诺，要伸张正义。
Mr. Obama, 53, is the one seemingly holding back in the White House photograph, contemplative, even brooding, as if seeking to understand how events could get so out of hand. He was too young and removed to experience the turmoil of the 1960s, growing up in a multiracial household in Hawaii and Indonesia. As he now seeks balance in an unbalanced time, he wrestles with the ghosts of history that his landmark election, however heady, failed to exorcise.
奥巴马现年53岁，在白宫发布的照片中，他身体向后靠，脸上带着沉思，甚至有些郁闷的表情，仿佛在试图理解事情怎么会变得如此不可收拾。奥巴马出生于一个多种族家庭，在夏威夷和印度尼西亚长大；20世纪60年代时，他还太年轻，而且相距也太遥远，没有经历过当时美国发生的动荡。他在如今这个不平衡的时期寻求平衡，就免不了和历史遗留下来的幽灵缠斗；他当选总统具有里程碑式的意义，虽然令人兴奋，但却没能驱散这个幽灵。
The differences between the two men have drawn criticism in recent days, as some African-Americans praise Mr. Holder for his outspokenness and lament or even denounce Mr. Obama for his caution. Michael Eric Dyson, a prominent author and Georgetown University professor, called the president’s public statement on Monday a “stunning epic failure” that seemed to blame black men rather than armed police.
最近几天，两人之间的差异引发了批评之声，一些非裔美国人赞扬霍尔德很坦率，同时却叹息甚至谴责奥巴马的谨慎言行。著名作家、乔治城大学(Georgetown University)教授迈克尔·埃里克·戴森(Michael Eric Dyson)称总统本周一的公开声明是“令人震惊的历史性失败”，因为它似乎是在指责黑人男子，而不是荷枪实弹的警察。
“This is a community aflame with a passion to know the truth and Obama is treating it dispassionately and with distance,” he said. “There is no blood flowing through the veins with empathy.”
“这个社区燃烧着希望了解真相的激情，奥巴马对待此事的方式却是不带感情、保持距离，”他说。“他完全没有进行过换位思考。”
On the other hand, Mr. Dyson said, “Eric feels it in his gut. It rises to his brain. It’s expressed on his tongue.” Mr. Holder, he added, is “an up and down race man who understands the moral consequences of the law on the lives of black people.”
在另一方面，戴森说，“埃里克能够感同身受。这种感受升华到他的脑子里，并通过他的舌头表达出来。”他说，霍尔德“自始至终都在致力于提升黑人的福祉，明白法律对黑人生活的道德影响”。
Such sentiments exasperate the White House, which denies any substantive distance between Mr. Obama and Mr. Holder.
这种看法激怒了白宫。白宫否认奥巴马和霍尔德之间存在任何实质性的差异。
Aides to Mr. Obama said he has been less visceral in his public remarks than his comments after the Trayvon Martin case because there is still an active investigation.
奥巴马的助手们说，相较于总统在特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)一案后发表的言论，他目前公开发言时感情比较克制，是因为调查还在进行。
“People shouldn’t presume because the attorney general might be more outspoken on a subject that he’s not consulting with the president and that the president isn’t completely supportive of the steps he’s taking,” said Valerie Jarrett, a senior White House adviser and close friend to both men.
“人们不应该因为司法部长可能在一个问题上更加直言不讳，就假设他没有和总统商量，以及总统对他采取的行动不是那么支持，”两人共同的密友、白宫高级顾问瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)说。
As a young attorney and prosecutor, Mr. Holder started programs intended to bridge the divide between law enforcement and communities. “We all bring our life experiences to the job we do — and that’s exactly what we want our attorney general to do,” said Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of the United States District Court, a former colleague. “He does care, and it just shows the character of the man himself.”
霍尔德年轻的时候，在当律师和检察官期间，曾启动了一些旨在弥合执法部门和社区之间的隔阂的项目。“我们把自己的生活经历融入到所做的工作中——这正是我们希望司法部长做的事情，”他的前同事、美国地区法院法官埃米特·G·沙利文(Emmet G. Sullivan)说。“他确实关心这些事情，而这恰恰显示了他的为人。”
But his time at the Justice Department has been marked by tension with the White House, where aides thought he was politically maladroit at times.
但他在司法部任职期间，该部门与白宫关系紧张；白宫的助手们认为，他有时候在政治方面不灵活。
Frustrated at times during the first term, Mr. Holder has been empowered in the second to take on more longstanding issues of disparity involving sentencing, clemency, racial profiling and voting rights.
第一个任期中，霍尔德遭受了一些挫折，他在第二个任期中获得授权，开始处理一些更加长期性的问题，这些问题涉及在量刑、减刑、种族定性和投票权方面的不平等现象。
And throughout, he has focused on cracking down on police departments that violate civil rights, opening 20 such investigations, more than twice as many in the previous five years. He and aides have discussed opening a similar, broader civil rights investigation into Ferguson’s practices, according to officials.
这期间，他专注于打击警察部门侵犯公民权利的现象，并开启了20个这样的调查，这一数字是之前五年的两倍多。官员们说，对于弗格森的做法，他和助手们就启动一个类似的、更加广泛的公民权利调查进行了讨论。
With his last election behind him, Mr. Obama seems more willing to talk about race. He created an initiative called My Brother’s Keeper this year to focus on black and Latino boys. In a meeting of the program this summer, he related his own experiences and told young black men not to fall into stereotypes.
奥巴马在上次大选结束后，似乎变得更愿意谈论种族问题了。今年他提出了一个聚焦于非洲裔和拉丁裔男孩的倡议，名为“弟兄守护人”(My Brother’s Keeper)。在该项目今夏的一个会议上，他谈到了自己的经历，告诉黑人青年不要落入模式化看法的窠臼。
“The notion that there’s an authentic way of being black — that has to go,” he said. “Because there are a whole bunch of different ways for African-American men to be authentic.” In some ways, it seemed he was pushing back against expectations of how he, as the first African-American president, should prove his own authenticity.
“有人认为，要成为正正宗宗的黑人，只有一条路，这个想法必须摒弃，”他说。“因为要当正正宗宗的非洲裔美国人，有很多不同的路径。”从某些方面来说，似乎他是在挡回一些人对自己的期望，这些人认为，作为第一位非裔美国人总统，他应该证明自己的正宗性。
Mr. Holder has been closely tracking the events in Ferguson since he read the first reports a few hours after the shooting of Michael Brown. From his iPad he dashed off an email to aides asking to be briefed by morning and eventually grew angry that, over his objection, local authorities released surveillance video showing an apparent robbery by Mr. Brown.
迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)遭到枪击数小时后，霍尔德读到了此事的报道，自此之后就一直密切关注着弗格森的事态进展。他在iPad上匆匆写了一封电邮给助手，要求在上午听到情况汇报；当弗格森当局不顾他的反对，公布了一个监控录像之后，他终于变得愤怒起来；该录像显示的似乎是布朗的抢劫行为。