Instances of racism and bigotry have ignited protests at colleges across the United States, and social media has amplified students’ messages far beyond campus. Here are some examples.
种族歧视和偏见的事例在美国各地的高校引发了抗议。社交媒体也让学生的言论传出了校园。以下是一些例子。
University of Missouri
密苏里大学(University of Missouri)
The president of the University of Missouri system resigned Nov. 9 after weeks of protests over racial tensions that had nearly paralyzed the campus — including a threat by dozens of black football players to boycott games. The president, Timothy M. Wolfe, urged everyone involved to “use my resignation to heal and start talking again.” Later that day, the chancellor of the Columbia campus, R. Bowen Loftin, also resigned.
11月9日，密苏里大学系统的负责人辞职。在这之前的数周里，种族矛盾引发的抗议让该校几乎陷入瘫痪，其中包括数十名黑人橄榄球选手威胁要抵制比赛。密苏里大学系统校长蒂莫西·M·沃尔夫费(Timothy M. Wolfe)敦促参与事件的所有人“用我的辞职抚平伤痛，再次开始交流”。当天晚些时候，密苏里大学哥伦比亚分校的校长R·鲍恩·洛夫廷(R. Bowen Loftin)也辞职了。
Yale
耶鲁大学(Yale)
Weeks of simmering racial tension boiled over this month in a debate over whether the administration was sensitive enough to concerns about Halloween costumes seen as culturally offensive. Many of the students who met with Yale’s president, Peter Salovey, said they did not believe the university was attuned to the needs of minority students. The campus has been engaged in a long-running debate over a residential college named in honor of John C. Calhoun, a 19th-century South Carolina politician, outspoken white supremacist and member of the Yale class of 1804.
一些万圣节服饰被认为对某些文化有冒犯之意。本月，各方围绕行政部门对有关此事的关切是否足够敏感而展开了辩论。辩论中，已酝酿数周的种族冲突呈爆发之势。很多见过该校校长苏必德(Peter Salovey)的学生表示，他们不相信学校照顾了少数群体学生的需求。学校里正在上演一场旷日持久的辩论，议题涉及一所以约翰·C·卡尔霍恩(John C. Calhoun)命名的住宿学院。卡尔霍恩是19世纪南卡罗来纳州的一名政界人物，也是耶鲁的1804级学生。他也公开地宣扬白人优越论。
UCLA
加州大学洛杉矶分校(UCLA)
Students at the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity and Alpha Phi sorority at the University of California, Los Angeles, held a “Kanye Western” event in October in which students, some of them white, dressed as either Kanye West, in baggy clothes, or as Kardashians, in form-fitting outfits and padded behinds. Protesters on campus flooded university administration offices that week chanting “Black Bruins matter.” The university, in a statement to The Daily Bruin, cautioned students to think before acting in a way that could offend those of different races.
10月，加州大学洛杉矶分校西格玛-弗爱-埃普西隆兄弟会(Sigma Phi Epsilon)和阿尔法-弗爱姐妹会(Alpha Phi)的学生举办了一场名以坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)为主题的活动。活动当中，包括一些白人在内的学生，打扮得要么像坎耶·韦斯特，穿着宽松的衣服，要么像卡戴珊姐妹，身着紧身的服装，还在臀部垫了东西。那一周，抗议者涌向学校行政机构，高呼着“黑熊也重要”(Black Bruins matter)。该校在发给《每日熊报》(The Daily Bruin)的声明中告诫学生，在做出可能会冒犯不同种族的同学的行动之前应该三思。
University of Michigan
密歇根大学(University of Michigan)
At the University of Michigan, hundreds of students and faculty members gathered for a 12-hour “speak out” in February 2014 to address racial tensions that erupted after a fraternity, whose members were mostly Asian and white, planned a party inviting “rappers, twerkers, gangsters” and others “back to da hood again.”
2014年2月，密歇根大学的数百名学生和教职工聚在一起，进行了一场长达12小时的“畅所欲言”活动，以应对种族关系的紧张。这场矛盾爆发的起因，是一个主要包括亚裔和白人的兄弟会，计划举行一场聚会，邀请“说唱歌手、电臀舞者、黑帮成员”和位于“街头底层”的其他人。
University of Oklahoma
俄克拉荷马大学(University of Oklahoma)
After two students were expelled in March for leading a racist song that caused outrage across the country, the fraternity involved said it would investigate questions of whether the chant was used by members at other universities.
3月，两名学生因为在一首种族主义歌曲中领唱而被开除。那首歌在全国引发了愤怒。事后，涉事兄弟会表示，将就其他大学的学生是否使用了相关口号展开调查。
Arizona State
亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State)
University officials suspended members of a fraternity in connection with a January 2014 party for Martin Luther King’s Birthday at which students wore loose basketball jerseys, flashed gang signs and drank from hollowed-out watermelons.
该大学的官员勒令一个兄弟会成员们休学。该兄弟会与2014年1月一场庆祝马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King)诞辰的聚会有牵连。在聚会上，学生们穿着宽松的篮球衫，挥舞着帮派标志，还从掏空的西瓜中喝酒。