A large section of the mighty West Antarctica ice sheet has begun falling apart and its continued melting now appears to be unstoppable, two groups of scientists reported on Monday. If the findings hold up, they suggest that the melting could destabilize neighboring parts of the ice sheet and a rise in sea level of 10 feet or more may be unavoidable in coming centuries.
壮观的西南极冰盖有很大一部分已经开始崩溃，其持续融化的进程现在似乎已经无可阻挡，两组科学家本周一表示。如果这个发现是正确的，他们表示，融化过程可能让冰盖的邻近部分变得不稳定，而且在未来数个世纪中，海平面可能会势不可挡地上升至少10英尺（约3米）。
Global warming caused by the human-driven release of greenhouse gases has helped to destabilize the ice sheet, though other factors may also be involved, the scientists said.
人类产生的温室气体排放导致全球变暖，从而促使冰盖变得不稳定，虽然这也可能涉及其他因素，科学家们说。
The rise of the sea is likely to continue to be relatively slow for the rest of the 21st century, the scientists added, but in the more distant future it may accelerate markedly, potentially throwing society into crisis.
在21世纪余下的时间里，海平面可能继续以相对缓慢的速度上升，科学家们表示，但在更遥远的将来，海平面上升的速度可能大幅加快，导致社会陷入危机。
“This is really happening,” Thomas P. Wagner, who runs NASA’s programs on polar ice and helped oversee some of the research, said in an interview. “There’s nothing to stop it now. But you are still limited by the physics of how fast the ice can flow.”
“事情真的就是这样，”托马斯·P·瓦格纳(Thomas P. Wagner)在接受采访时说，他是美国国家航空航天局(NASA)极地冰层项目的负责人，帮助监督过一些这样的研究。“现在已经没有任何东西可以阻止这一进程了。但冰能以多快的速度流动对我们仍然是个限制条件。”
Two scientific papers released on Monday by the journals Science and Geophysical Research Letters came to similar conclusions by different means. Both groups of scientists found that West Antarctic glaciers had retreated far enough to set off an inherent instability in the ice sheet, one that experts have feared for decades. NASA called a telephone news conference Monday to highlight the urgency of the findings.
《科学》(Science)与《地球物理研究通讯》(Geophysical Research Letters)本周一发布了两篇科学论文，它们采用不同的方式得出了类似结论。两组科学家均发现，西南极冰川的大幅消退足以引发冰盖的内在不稳定性，而专家们数十年前就已经开始担心这种状况的发生。NASA本周一召开电话新闻发布会，强调了这些新发现的紧迫性。
The West Antarctic ice sheet sits in a bowl-shaped depression in the earth, with the base of the ice below sea level. Warm ocean water is causing the ice sitting along the rim of the bowl to thin and retreat. As the front edge of the ice pulls away from the rim and enters deeper water, it can retreat much faster than before.
西南极冰盖位于地球的碗状凹陷处，底部位于海平面以下。温暖的海水正在导致位于碗状凹陷边缘处的冰变薄和消退。由于冰的前缘离开了碗状凹陷的边缘，进入了更深的水域，它的消退比以前快多了。
In one of the new papers, a team led by Eric Rignot, a glaciologist at the University of California, Irvine, used satellite and air measurements to document an accelerating retreat over the past several decades of six glaciers draining into the Amundsen Sea region. And with updated mapping of the terrain beneath the ice sheet, the team was able to rule out the presence of any mountains or hills significant enough to slow the retreat.
在其中一篇新论文中，加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)冰川学家埃里克·里戈诺特(Eric Rignot)率领一个研究小组，利用卫星和航空测量值，揭示了六个流入阿蒙森海(Amundsen Sea)地区的冰川在过去几十年里出现了加速消退的现象。该小组还使用新版的冰盖下方地形图，指出那里没有足够大的山区或丘陵，可以减缓冰川的消退。
“Today we present observational evidence that a large sector of the West Antarctic ice sheet has gone into irreversible retreat,” Dr. Rignot said in the NASA news conference. “It has passed the point of no return.”
“今天我们发布的观测证据表明，西南极冰盖中的一大片已经走上了消退的不归路，”博士里戈诺特博士在NASA的新闻发布会上说。“它已经越过了是否可逆的临界点。”
Those six glaciers alone could cause the ocean to rise four feet as they disappear, Dr. Rignot said, possibly within a couple of centuries. He added that their disappearance will most likely destabilize other sectors of the ice sheet, so the ultimate rise could be triple that.
仅仅是这六个冰川的消失，就可能导致海平面上升4英尺，而这些冰川可能会在未来两三百年中消融，里戈诺特博士说。他还表示，它们的消失很可能导致冰盖的其他部分变得不稳定，所以海平面的最终上升幅度可能是4英尺的三倍。
A separate team led by Ian Joughin of the University of Washington studied one of the most important glaciers, Thwaites, using sophisticated computer modeling, coupled with recent measurements of the ice flow. That team also found that a slow-motion collapse had become inevitable. Even if the warm water now eating away at the ice were to dissipate, it would be “too little, too late to stabilize the ice sheet,” Dr. Joughin said. “There’s no stabilization mechanism.”
华盛顿大学(University of Washington)的伊恩·乔因(Ian Joughin)率领另一个独立的小组，利用先进的计算机建模技术，以及冰流动状况的最近测量值，对最重要的冰川之一特怀特(Thwaites)进行了研究。该小组还发现，冰盖的缓慢崩溃已经势不可免。即使溶解冰层的温暖海水现在消失了，对于“帮助稳定冰盖来说也依然效果太小，为时太晚了，”乔因博士说。“稳定冰盖的机制并不存在。”
The two teams worked independently, preparing papers that were to be published within days of each other. After it was learned that their results were similar, the teams and their journals agreed to release the findings on the same day. 
两组科学家各自独立地开展研究，他们所准备的论文本应先后发表，相隔不过数日。在了解到他们的发现很相似之后，两组科学家和相应期刊同意在同一天发布研究结果。
The new finding appears to be the fulfillment of a prediction made in 1978 by an eminent glaciologist, John H. Mercer of the Ohio State University. He outlined the vulnerable nature of the West Antarctic ice sheet and warned that the rapid human-driven release of greenhouse gases posed “a threat of disaster.” He was assailed at the time, but in recent years, scientists have been watching with growing concern as events have unfolded in much the way Dr. Mercer predicted. (He died in 1987.)
这项新发现似乎证实了俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State University)著名冰川学家约翰·H·默瑟(John H. Mercer)1978年所做的预测。默瑟指出西南极冰盖本质很脆弱，并警告说，人类导致的温室气体快速释放将造成“灾难威胁”。当时他的观点遭到了一些人的攻击，但是近年来，由于情况的发展在很大程度上跟默瑟博士的预测相吻合，科学家们对此予以的关注与日俱增。（默瑟博士已于1987年过世。）
Scientists said the ice sheet was not melting because of warmer air temperatures, but rather because relatively warm water that occurs naturally in the depths of the ocean was being pulled to the surface by an intensification, over the past several decades, of the powerful winds that encircle Antarctica.
科学家说，导致冰盖融化的不是温度较高的空气，而是天然存在于海洋深处的、相对温暖的海水被推升到了海表，在过去几十年中，环绕南极洲的强风的加剧导致了这种状况的发生。
The global sea level has been rising since the 19th century, but Antarctica so far has been only a small factor. The biggest factor to date is that seawater expands as it warms.
自从19世纪以来，全球海平面一直在上升，但是迄今为止，南极洲只是一个比较小的因素。一直以来，最大因素是海水变得温暖时发生的膨胀。
But the melting from both Greenland and Antarctica is expected to be far more important in the future. A United Nations scientific committee, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has warned that the global sea level could rise as much as three feet by the end of this century if stronger efforts are not made to control greenhouse gases. The new findings suggest the situation is likely to get far worse in subsequent centuries.
但是格陵兰岛和南极洲的冰层融化，可能会在未来变得重要许多。政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）是联合国的一个科学委员会，它曾警告说，如果不在控制温室气体排放方面做出更大的努力，到本世纪结束时，全球海平面会上升多达3英尺。这些新的发现表明，在随后几个世纪，情况可能会变得远比现在更糟。
The effects will depend in part on how much money future governments spend to protect shorelines from a rising sea. Research published in 2012 found that a rise of less than four feet would inundate land on which some 3.7 million Americans live today. Miami, New Orleans, New York and Boston are all highly vulnerable.
海平面上升会造成怎样的影响，将部分取决于政府以后投入多少资金来保护海岸线免受其危害。2012年发表的相关研究发现，不到4英尺的海平面上升，将淹没约370万美国人如今生活的土地。迈阿密、新奥尔良、纽约和波士顿都非常容易受灾。
Richard B. Alley, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University who was not involved in the new research but has studied the polar ice sheets for decades, said he found the new papers compelling. Though he had long feared the possibility of ice-sheet collapse, when he learned of the new findings, “it shook me a little bit,” Dr. Alley said.
理查德·B·阿利(Richard B. Alley)是宾夕法尼亚州立大学(Pennsylvania State University)的气候科学家，他本人没有参与这些新的研究，但他研究极地冰盖已有数十年之久。他认为这两份新论文极具说服力。虽然他早就担心冰盖有可能崩溃，但当了解到这次的新发现时，他仍然“感觉有点震撼”，阿利博士说。
He added that while a large rise of the sea may now be inevitable from West Antarctica, continued release of greenhouse gases will almost certainly make the situation worse. The heat-trapping gases could destabilize other parts of Antarctica as well as the Greenland ice sheet, potentially causing enough sea-level rise that many of the world’s coastal cities would eventually have to be abandoned.
他还表示，虽然就现在来说，西南极冰盖崩溃导致海平面大幅上升可能已经无法阻挡，但温室气体的持续排放几乎肯定会让情况变得更糟。吸热气体可能会让南极其他地区以及格陵兰冰盖变得不稳定，由此导致的海平面上升可能将迫使人们最终不得不舍弃全球各地的很多沿海城市。
“If we have indeed lit the fuse on West Antarctica, it’s very hard to imagine putting the fuse out,” Dr. Alley said. “But there’s a bunch more fuses, and there’s a bunch more matches, and we have a decision now: Do we light those?”
“如果我们确实已在西南极点燃了导火索，再要将其扑灭是很难想象的，”阿利博士说。“但是我们另外还有一堆导火索，还有一大堆火柴，我们现在要决定的事情是：是否要点燃它们？”