At the bottom of the world, an observatory embedded in ice and designed to catch bountiful but elusive subatomic particles could give astronomers a brand-new look at the universe.
在这个世界的底部，有一个被冰覆盖、旨在捕捉数量众多但却难以探测的亚原子粒子的天文台，这个天文台可能会让天文学家获得对宇宙的全新认识。
An international team of scientists reported on Thursday that over a two-year period they had detected 28 of these particles, known as neutrinos, that arrived from outside the solar system and possibly from across the universe.
一个国际科学家小组周四报告称，他们在两年的时间里探测到了28个此类粒子，也就是所谓的中微子，它们来自太阳系之外，可能来自宇宙尽头。
“This gives us a new way to do astronomy,” said Francis Halzen, a physics professor at the University of Wisconsin who is the principal investigator for the project, the IceCube Neutrino Observatory. The findings appear in the journal Science.
威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)弗朗西斯·哈尔岑(Francis Halzen)表示，“这为我们提供了一个研究天文学的新方法。” 哈尔岑是冰立方中微子天文台(IceCube Neutrino Observatory)项目的首席研究员。研究结果刊登在《科学》(Science)杂志上。
In 1987, detectors in the United States, Japan and Russia noted two dozen neutrinos that originated from a supernova explosion of a star about 165,000 light-years away. That was the first and last time distant neutrinos had been detected until the IceCube observatory, largely financed by the National Science Foundation, started its observations in 2010.
1987年，美国、日本及俄罗斯的探测器发现了24个中微子，它们是大约16.5万光年之外的一颗恒星出现超新星爆炸时产生的。这是冰立方天文台于2010年开始进行观测之前，科学家第一次也是最后一次探测到遥远的中微子。该天文台主要由美国国家科学基金会(National Science Foundation)资助。
More than 5,000 sensors have been lowered and frozen into a cubic kilometer (about one-quarter cubic mile) of Antarctic ice, looking for flashes of blue light that are given off by the cascades of debris generated by a neutrino.
逾5000个传感器被放置并冻结在南极洲一片体积为一立方千米（约合四分之一立方英里）的冰层中，以便寻找中微子的碎片喷流发出的蓝光。
Neutrinos are ghostlike particles that interact only very rarely with the rest of the universe. The fusion reactions that power the sun give off a flood of neutrinos, but almost all of them go undetected and unfelt: Every second, trillions of them pass through every person on earth.
中微子是幽灵似的粒子，很少与宇宙中的其他物质产生相互作用。为太阳提供动力的聚变反应产生了大量中微子，但其中绝大部分都没有被探测或感觉到：在地球上，每秒钟都会有数万亿个中微子穿过每一个人。
IceCube, built over a decade at a cost of $271 million, ignores the solar neutrinos, but is instead searching for those coming from cataclysmic events elsewhere in the galaxy or even farther away. Until they looked, scientists did not know what they would find.
冰立方天文台耗资2.71亿美元（约合16.5亿元人民币），用了10年时间才建成。它忽略了太阳中微子，转而寻找银河系其余部分乃至更远星系的剧烈活动产生的中微子。实际找到之前，科学家并不知道自己会找到什么。
“I actually think the most surprising thing is that they show up when they were expected,” Dr. Halzen said.
哈尔岑博士表示，“实际上，我认为最令人震惊的事情是，它们的确按照人们的期望出现了。”
The scientists named the newly discovered neutrinos after “Sesame Street” characters. The two most energetic of the 28 are Bert and Ernie; two others are called Miss Piggy and Snuffleupagus.
科学家以《芝麻街》(Sesame Street)中的人物给新发现的中微子命名。28个中微子当中，能量最高的两个分别是伯特(Bert)和厄尼(Ernie)，其他两个被称为朱小姐(Miss Piggy)和史纳菲(Snuffleupagus)。
In the third year of data, not reported in the Science paper, an even more energetic neutrino appeared. That one is called Big Bird.
搜集数据的第三年还出现了一个能量更高的中微子，它被命名为大鸟(Big Bird)，《科学》上的论文没有提到这些数据。
Dr. Halzen said some of the 28 might have come from our own Milky Way galaxy, but others originated farther away. “Some of them are certainly extragalactic,” he said. IceCube detects only one out of a million neutrinos, which means about 28 million neutrinos from outside the solar system passed through during that time.
哈尔岑说，28个中微子当中，有些可能来自我们所在的银河系，其他的则来自更远的地方。“有些肯定来自银河系之外，”他说。冰立方只能探测到中微子总数当中的百万分之一，也就是说，当时有约2800万个太阳系之外的中微子穿过。
Because neutrinos so rarely collide with anything, detecting them requires a great deal of material — in the case of IceCube, the vast expanse of ice readily available at the South Pole.
由于中微子很少与其他物质产生碰撞，所以检测它们需要大量物质——以冰立方的情况而言，这些物质就是南极现成的大量冰块。
One in a great while, a neutrino does collide with something, setting off a cascade of electrons and other subatomic debris. Charged particles in a transparent material like ice give off blue light. Phototubes record the bursts of light, and from the patterns, scientists can determine the direction and energy of the incoming neutrinos.
在极少数情况下，中微子确实会与其他物质发生碰撞，然后产生电子喷流和其他的亚原子碎片。带电的粒子会在冰之类的透明物质里发出蓝光。光电管会把光的喷发记录下来，科学家可以根据发光模式确定进入冰层的中微子的运动方向和能量。
Although IceCube is not tuned to find the low-energy neutrinos from supernovas in the galactic neighborhood, another explosion like the one observed in 1987 would be a bonanza for IceCube. It would register about 100,000 neutrinos, Dr. Halzen said.
虽然冰立方的设计意图不是找寻邻近星系超新星爆发产生的低能量中微子，不过，对冰立方来说，与1987年那次爆发相似的爆发会是一个巨大的意外收获。哈尔岑说，它将由此记录到大约10万个中微子。
Until now, most telescopes have looked at the universe by gathering photons, or particles of light, including lower-energy radio waves, visible light, X-rays and gamma rays.
直到现在，大多数望远镜都是通过搜集低能量无线电波、可见光、X光和伽马射线等光子来观测宇宙的。
The very-high-energy neutrinos detected by IceCube open a new spectrum for observing the universe.
冰立方探测到的超高能量中微子为观测宇宙打开了一片新的天地。
With more observations, the scientists hope to be able to determine where the neutrinos originated, whether from black holes or the rapidly rotating burned-out stars known as pulsars.
科学家希望通过进一步的观察来确定这些中微子的来处，看它们究竟是来自黑洞，还是来自被称作脉冲星的快速旋转的坍缩恒星。
John G. Learned, a professor of physics at the University of Hawaii who is not part of the IceCube team, said its conclusion that the 28 neutrinos came from beyond the solar system was convincing.
夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)物理学教授约翰·G·勒尼德(John G. Learned)并未参与冰立方项目。他表示，冰立方小组认为这28个中微子来自太阳系之外的看法很有说服力。
But what was surprising is that IceCube did not detect neutrinos of even higher energies than Bert, Ernie and Big Bird, which was expected given current ideas of the cosmic processes thought to generate them. “They’re not there,” Dr. Learned said. “We don’t understand that.”
奇怪的是，冰立方并没有发现比伯特、厄尼和大鸟能量更高的中微子，根据人们目前对产生这些中微子的宇宙活动的判断，比它们能量更高的中微子也应该存在。“没有这样的中微子，”勒尼德说。“我们不明白是为什么。”
But he added: “That’s the kind of situation we love. A mystery may mean we may learn some fundamentally new science.”
但他又说：“我们喜欢这类局面。未解之谜可能意味着我们有机会学到全新的科学知识。”
There is also a tantalizing hint that some of the neutrinos are coming from the center of our own galaxy. That too would be surprising, because anything there creating neutrinos should also be creating very-high-energy cosmic rays and gamma rays, which are not seen.
还有一种诱人的可能性，那就是有些中微子来自银河系的中心。果真如此的话，也会让人非常惊讶，原因在于能产生中微子的宇宙活动必然会产生能量非常高的宇宙射线和伽马射线，但科学家们并没有探测到这些东西。
Dr. Halzen said it was too early to tell for sure. “We now know what we’re looking for, and we’ll figure it out,” he said.
哈尔岑说，现在下结论为时过早。他说，“我们现在知道了自己在寻找什么，我们会弄清楚的。”