Exercise science is a fine and intellectually fascinating thing. But sometimes you just want someone to lay out guidelines for how to put the newest fitness research into practice.
运动科学是一门精细而且有趣的学问。然而，有时你只想让人罗列一些指导原则，告诉你如何把最新的健身研究应用到实践之中。
An article in the May-June issue of the American College of Sports Medicine’s Health & Fitness Journal does just that. In 12 exercises deploying only body weight, a chair and a wall, it fulfills the latest mandates for high-intensity effort, which essentially combines a long run and a visit to the weight room into about seven minutes of steady discomfort — all of it based on science.
美国运动医学会(American College of Sports Medicine)的《健康与健身杂志》(Health & Fitness Journal)今年5、6月号刊载的一篇文章就做到了这一点。高强度的运动通常需要长跑和进举重房训练，而文中的12项运动只需要利用人的体重、一把椅子和一面墙即可进行，它把对高强度运动的最新要求，变成了大约七分钟令人难受的持续运动，而这一切都建立在科学的基础上。
“There’s very good evidence” that high-intensity interval training provides “many of the fitness benefits of prolonged endurance training but in much less time,” says Chris Jordan, the director of exercise physiology at the Human Performance Institute in Orlando, Fla., and co-author of the new article.
“有非常好的证据表明”高强度的间隔训练，能够提供“长期耐力训练的诸多好处，但是所花的时间少很多”，位于佛罗里达州奥兰多的人类行为表现研究院(Human Performance Institute)运动生理学负责人，此文作者之一克里斯·乔丹(Chris Jordan)说。
Work by scientists at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and other institutions shows, for instance, that even a few minutes of training at an intensity approaching your maximum capacity produces molecular changes within muscles comparable to those of several hours of running or bike riding.
例如，加拿大安大略省哈密尔顿的麦克马斯特大学(McMaster University)及其他机构的科学家的研究显示，即便只进行几分钟濒临体能极限的高强度训练，使肌肉的分子发生变化，就堪比跑步或骑车几个小时。
Interval training, though, requires intervals; the extremely intense activity must be intermingled with brief periods of recovery. In the program outlined by Mr. Jordan and his colleagues, this recovery is provided in part by a 10-second rest between exercises. But even more, he says, it’s accomplished by alternating an exercise that emphasizes the large muscles in the upper body with those in the lower body. During the intermezzo, the unexercised muscles have a moment to, metaphorically, catch their breath, which makes the order of the exercises important.
然而，间隔训练是需要间隔的；这种强度极大的运动中间，必须插入短暂的恢复时间。在乔丹和他的同事所制定的计划中，恢复的部分内容就是休息10秒钟，再开始下一次运动。他说，此外，还要交替进行以上身大块肌肉为重点和以下肢大块肌肉为重点的训练。休息的时候，停止运动的肌肉就像是获得了喘息时间一样，所以，运动的顺序也很重要。
The exercises should be performed in rapid succession, allowing 30 seconds for each, while, throughout, the intensity hovers at about an 8 on a discomfort scale of 1 to 10, Mr. Jordan says. Those seven minutes should be, in a word, unpleasant. The upside is, after seven minutes, you’re done.
乔丹说，锻炼要快速交替，每项锻炼的时间可以有30秒；而如果把不舒适的程度分为1到10级，那么整个过程的运动强度应该在8级左右。总而言之，运动的七分钟应该是不舒服的。但好处是，七分钟后就大功告成了。