An international panel of scientists has found with near certainty that human activity is the cause of most of the temperature increases of recent decades, and warns that sea levels could conceivably rise by more than three feet by the end of the century if emissions continue at a runaway pace.
一个由各国科学家组成的委员会几近肯定地得出结论，人类活动是造成最近几十年大部分气温升高的原因。委员会同时发出警告，如果继续以失控的速度排放温室气体，到本世纪末，海平面可能会升高3英尺（约合90厘米）以上。
The scientists, whose findings are reported in a draft summary of the next big United Nations climate report, largely dismiss a recent slowdown in the pace of warming, which is often cited by climate change doubters, attributing it most likely to short-term factors.
这些科学家基本上没有考虑最近全球变暖速度放慢的问题。气候变化怀疑论者经常援引这一点，但科学家们认为，这极有可能是短期因素造成的。他们的发现出现在了联合国下一份重要气候报告的草稿概要中。
The report emphasizes that the basic facts about future climate change are more established than ever, justifying the rise in global concern. It also reiterates that the consequences of escalating emissions are likely to be profound.
该报告强调，有关未来气候变化的基本事实比以往任何时候都更确凿，证明了愈发强烈的全球担忧是有道理的。报告还重申，温室气体排放加剧可能会造成深远的影响。
“It is extremely likely that human influence on climate caused more than half of the observed increase in global average surface temperature from 1951 to 2010,” the draft report says. “There is high confidence that this has warmed the ocean, melted snow and ice, raised global mean sea level and changed some climate extremes in the second half of the 20th century.”
“从1951年到2010年，已观察到的全球平均地表温度的升高中，一半以上极有可能是由人类对气候的影响造成的，”报告草稿称，“有很高的置信度支持，这已在20世纪下半页导致海洋温度升高、冰雪融化、全球平均海平面上升，而且改变了一些极端气候。”
The draft comes from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a body of several hundred scientists that won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007, along with Al Gore. Its summaries, published every five or six years, are considered the definitive assessment of the risks of climate change, and they influence the actions of governments around the world. Hundreds of billions of dollars are being spent on efforts to reduce greenhouse emissions, for instance, largely on the basis of the group’s findings.
该报告来自联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）。该机构由数百名科学家组成，并在2007年与阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)共同获得诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)。IPCC的概要报告每五年或六年发布一次，被认为是对气候变化风险的最权威评估，会影响到世界各国政府的行动。比如，眼下全球正在减少温室气体领域投入巨资，其主要依据就是该机构的发现。
The coming report will be the fifth major assessment from the group, created in 1988. Each report has found greater certainty that the planet is warming and greater likelihood that humans are the primary cause.
即将发布的报告将是成立于1988年的该机构的第五份主要评估报告。每份报告都更加确定地发现，地球正在变暖，而且人类是主要原因。
The 2007 report found “unequivocal” evidence of warming, but hedged a little on responsibility, saying the chances were at least 90 percent that human activities were the cause. The language in the new draft is stronger, saying the odds are at least 95 percent that humans are the principal cause.
2007年发布的报告认为，全球变暖证据“明确”，但在责任问题上却有所保留，称人类活动是导致全球变暖的原因的可能性至少为90%。新草稿中的措辞更为强硬，称人类是主要原因的几率至少为95%。
On sea level, which is one of the biggest single worries about climate change, the new report goes well beyond the assessment published in 2007, which largely sidestepped the question of how much the ocean could rise this century.
海平面问题是对气候变化的最大担忧之一。在这个问题上，新报告远远超越了2007年发布的评估。在很大程度上，2007年的评估回避了本世纪海平面可能升高多少这个问题。
The new report also reiterates a core difficulty that has plagued climate science for decades: While averages for such measures as temperature can be predicted with some confidence on a global scale, the coming changes still cannot be forecast reliably on a local scale. That leaves governments and businesses fumbling in the dark as they try to plan ahead.
新报告还重申了一个困扰气候科学几十年的核心难题：尽管可以颇为可信地预测全球范围内温度等计量标准的平均水平，但依然无法对局部即将出现的变化进行可靠地预测。这使得各地政府和企业在试图提前做出计划时，只能在黑暗中摸索。
On another closely watched issue, the scientists retreated slightly from their 2007 position.
在另一个受到密切关注的问题上，这些科学家与他们2007年的立场相比有轻微让步。
Regarding the question of how much the planet could warm if carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere doubled, the previous report largely ruled out any number below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. The new draft says the rise could be as low as 2.7 degrees, essentially restoring a scientific consensus that prevailed from 1979 to 2007.
关于如果大气中的二氧化碳含量翻番，地球会变暖多少这个问题，2007年的报告基本上排除了任何低于2摄氏度的数据。新草稿却称，气温升高的水平甚至有可能仅为1.5度。这实际上恢复了科学界在1979年到2007年期间达成的普遍共识。
But the draft says only that the low number is possible, not that it is likely. Many climate scientists see only a remote chance that the warming will be that low, with the published evidence suggesting that an increase above 5 degrees Fahrenheit is more likely if carbon dioxide doubles.
不过，文中称，1.5度的下限只是有可能，但可能性不大。许多气候科学家认为，变暖程度如此之低的概率极小，而公开发表的证据显示，如果二氧化碳浓度翻番，升温高于2.8度的可能性更大。
The level of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, is up 41 percent since the Industrial Revolution, and if present trends continue it could double in a matter of decades.
二氧化碳是主要的温室气体。自工业革命以来，它在大气中的浓度升高了41%。如果目前的趋势继续下去，这一浓度可能在数十年内翻番。
Warming the entire planet by 5 degrees Fahrenheit would add a stupendous amount of energy to the climate system. Scientists say the increase would be greater over land and might exceed 10 degrees at the poles.
全球变暖2.8度将给气候系统增添巨大的能量。科学家们表示，陆地的升温将更显著，两极的升温则可能超过5.5度。
They add that such an increase would lead to widespread melting of land ice, extreme heat waves, difficulty growing food and massive changes in plant and animal life, probably including a wave of extinctions.
科学家们还表示，这种升温将导致陆冰大范围融化、极端热浪、粮食生产困难、动植物生存的巨大变化，很可能还会带来一波生物灭绝浪潮。
After winning the Nobel Peace Prize six years ago, the group became a political target for climate doubters, who helped identify minor errors in the 2007 report. This time, the panel adopted rigorous procedures in the hope of preventing such mistakes.
自从六年前获得诺贝尔和平奖后，IPCC成为了气候变化怀疑论者的政治靶子。在他们的协助下，2007年报告的一些小错被揪了出来。这一次，委员会采用了严格的程序，希望能避免此类错误。
Some climate doubters challenge the idea that the earth is warming at all; others concede that it is, but deny human responsibility; still others acknowledge a human role, but assert that the warming is likely to be limited and the impacts manageable. Every major scientific academy in the world has warned that global warming is a serious problem.
一部分气候变化怀疑论者质疑全球是否真的在变暖；另一部分承认这一点，但否认人类对此负有责任；还有一部分承认人类的作用，但强调变暖很可能是有限的，带来的影响也在可控范围之内。但是，世界上每家主要的科研机构均警告，全球变暖会构成严重问题。
The panel shifted to a wider range for the potential warming, dropping the plausible low end to 2.7 degrees, s after a wave of recent studies saying higher estimates were unlikely. But those studies are contested, and scientists at Stockholm are likely to debate whether to stick with that language.
IPCC做出了一定修改，扩大了潜在的升温范围，将可能的下限降至1.5摄氏度，因为最近有一批研究认为，更高的估值可能性不大。不过，这些研究遭到了质疑，聚集到斯德哥尔摩的科学家们很可能会就此进行辩论，探讨是否保留这一措辞。
Regarding the likely rise in sea level over the coming century, the new report lays out several possibilities. In the most optimistic, the world’s governments would prove far more successful at getting emissions under control than they have been in the recent past, helping to limit the total warming.
至于本世纪海平面可能上升的程度，新报告给出了几种情景。最乐观的情景是，世界各国政府控制排放的努力远比最近的表现成功，有助于限制全球整体变暖。
In that circumstance, sea level could be expected to rise as little as 10 inches by the end of the century, the report found. That is a bit more than the eight-inch increase in the 20th century, which proved manageable even though it caused severe erosion along the world’s shorelines.
报告指出，在这种情况下，预计到本世纪末，海平面将仅上升25厘米，稍高于20世纪的20厘米。尽管上世纪的海平面上升导致全球各地的海岸线遭受了严重侵蚀，但事实证明这个问题仍在可控范围内。
At the other extreme, the report considers a chain of events in which emissions continue to increase at a swift pace. Under those conditions, sea level could be expected to rise at least 21 inches by 2100 and might increase a bit more than three feet, the draft report said.
按照报告的设定，最悲观的情景是，温室气体排放持续快速增长，导致连锁反应。文中称，在这种情况下，预计到2100年，海平面将至少升高53厘米，还有可能抬升至92厘米。
Hundreds of millions of people live near sea level, and either figure would represent a challenge for humanity, scientists say. But a three-foot rise in particular would endanger many of the world’s great cities — among them New York; London; Shanghai; Venice; Sydney, Australia; Miami and New Orleans.
科学家们表示，有数亿人居住在海平面附近，不管是哪个数字，都会对全人类构成挑战。而92厘米的上升可能会危及多个世界大城市，其中包括纽约、伦敦、上海、威尼斯、悉尼、迈阿密和新奥尔良。