WASHINGTON — As fighters from the Islamic State were on the brink of a highly visible conquest of a Syrian town near the Turkish border, Obama administration officials on Wednesday said there were limits to what the United States was able or willing to do to defend it.
华盛顿——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的作战人员即将在众目睽睽之下攻陷临近土叙边界的一座叙利亚小镇，但奥巴马政府官员周三表示，美国保护这座小镇的能力和意愿都是有限的。
Officials from the White House, the State Department and the Pentagon warned that airstrikes alone would not be sufficient to protect the town, Kobani, from the black-clad fighters. Their comments came a month after President Obama expanded the military campaign against the Sunni militant group into Syria. Although the Kurdish town — with television cameras trained on it from across the border in Turkey — has become a vivid symbol of the Islamic State’s lethal advance, and the Kurds’ fierce resistance, administration officials sought to play down its strategic importance.
来自白宫、国务院和国防部的官员警告称，单凭空袭不足以在这些黑衣武装分子面前保护科巴尼(Kobani)。这番评论发表之前一个月，奥巴马总统刚刚扩大了在叙利亚打击逊尼派武装团体的军事行动。在边境的土耳其一边，电视媒体将摄像机对准了这座库尔德城镇，它已经成为一个符号，鲜明地体现了伊斯兰国的凶悍挺近和库尔德人的激烈抗争。然而奥巴马政府官员对科巴尼的战略意义，表态却颇为低调。
“As horrific as it is to watch in real time what’s happening in Kobani,” Secretary of State John Kerry said at a news conference, “it’s also important to remember that you have to step back and understand the strategic objective and where we have begun over the course of the last weeks.”
“尽管实时关注科巴尼的事态令人十分惊恐，”国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在一次新闻发布会上说，“但同样重要的是，你必须后退一步，理解战略目标，理解过去几周的进展开始之前，我们处在怎样的位置。”
The military’s Central Command said that the United States had conducted eight more airstrikes on Wednesday — for a total of 19 in the past four days — to try to halt the advance on Kobani. But officials drew a sharp distinction between Syria and Iraq, where it conducts airstrikes in concert with Kurdish pesh merga fighters and the Iraqi military.
美军中央司令部(Central Command)表示，为了遏制伊斯兰国对科巴尼的攻势，周三美国又开展了八次空袭，过去四天里共进行了19次空袭。但官员指出，叙利亚和伊拉克存在显著的差异，美国在伊拉克实施空袭时，可以与库尔德武装“敢死军”(pesh merga)以及伊拉克军方相配合。
“That sort of ground operation doesn’t currently exist in Syria right now, and that will limit the effectiveness of the United States military to have the same kind of impact on the situation in Kobani,” the White House spokesman, Josh Earnest, told reporters.
“目前这种地面行动在叙利亚并不存在，这也会制约美国军事行动的效果，使其对科巴尼的局势无法产生相同的影响，”白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)对记者表示。
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama was briefed on the military campaign by his commanders at the Pentagon and then met there with his national security team. “It remains a difficult mission,” he said. “As I’ve indicated from the start, this is not something that is going to be solved overnight.” The administration’s downbeat tone seemed aimed at managing expectations about the campaign and also at pressuring Turkey, which has signed on to the coalition but has so far been reluctant to commit military resources in the conflict.
周三，奥巴马在五角大楼听取了指挥官们对军事行动的汇报，之后又在那里会见了他的国家安全团队。“这仍然是一个艰巨的任务，”他说。“我一开始就说过，这不是那种可以在一夜之间解决的问题。”奥巴马政府的悲观表态，目的似乎是控制人们对军事行动的预期，同时也向土耳其施压。土耳其加入了联盟，但迄今为止都不愿意在冲突中投入军事资源。
Officials said they wanted the Turks to act by deploying ground troops in Syria, firing artillery at the militants, helping to train and arm Syrian rebels, sharing intelligence or opening its border to let Turkish Kurdish fighters join the fight and Syrian Kurds to flee the town. The White House, however, has not specifically asked Turkey to send troops to defend Kobani, in part because the Syrian Kurds there do not want Turkish reinforcements. The role of Turkish troops in Syria is complicated because President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has made no secret that he wants to oust President Bashar al-Assad as much as he wants to repel the Islamic State.
官员表示，他们希望土耳其采取行动，在叙利亚部署地面部队、向武装分子开炮、帮助训练叙利亚反对派武装、分享情报，或者开放边境，允许土耳其的库尔德武装加入战斗，也允许叙利亚的库尔德人逃离受困的城镇。然而，白宫并没有具体要求土耳其派兵保护科巴尼，部分原因在于那里的叙利亚库尔德人不想要土耳其的增援。由于土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)公开表示，他既希望推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)，也希望击溃伊斯兰国，土耳其军队要在叙利亚扮演的角色显得相当复杂。
The delicacy of the negotiations between the United States and Turkey is typified by the issue of a buffer zone in the northern part of Syria, which the Turkish government has long demanded and which the Pentagon has resisted because of its cost and complexity.
是否在叙利亚北部设立缓冲区的问题突显了美国与土耳其之间的谈判的微妙之处，土耳其政府早就要求设立缓冲区，却遭到五角大楼的抗拒，理由是此举耗资巨大，极其复杂。
On Wednesday, Mr. Kerry said the idea of a buffer zone was “worth looking at very, very closely,” and would be a topic of discussion between Turkish officials and Mr. Obama’s special envoy for Syria, Gen. John R. Allen, in meetings in Ankara on Thursday. Mr. Earnest, however, said, “It’s not something that’s under consideration right now.”
周三，克里表示，设立缓冲区的想法“值得仔细思考”，这将是土耳其官员与奥巴马的叙利亚问题特使约翰·R·艾伦上将(John R. Allen)会谈的主题，双方将于周四在安卡拉举行会晤。但欧内斯特表示，“目前还没有讨论这一话题。”
Administration officials said the United States was walking a fine line with Turkey, which has conditioned military participation on the imposition of a buffer zone. General Allen is expected to argue that bolstering the Syrian rebels would not only create a fighting force against the Islamic State, but would be a counterweight to the Assad government.
政府官员表示，美国正在寻找应对土耳其的中间路线，土耳其要求设立缓冲区，并以此作为参与军事行动的条件。据悉艾伦上将会辩称，支持叙利亚叛军不仅会创建一支能够打击伊斯兰国的作战力量，他们还能与阿萨德政府抗衡。
Pentagon officials said that while airstrikes had succeeded in changing the tactics of the militants — dispersing them, forcing them to conceal their weapons and hide among the population and limiting their electronic communications — airstrikes would not be enough to stop them from seizing Kobani and other towns.
五角大楼官员表示，虽然空袭成功地改变了武装分子的策略——迫使他们散开，隐藏武器，藏匿在人群中，限制电子通讯，但空袭不足以阻止他们侵占科巴尼及其他城镇。
“Airstrikes alone are not going to fix this, not going to save the town of Kobani,” said Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary. “We know that. We know that ISIL is going to continue to grab ground and there are going to be villages and towns and cities that they take.” Admiral Kirby was using an alternative name for the group.
“单凭空袭无法解决问题，不会拯救科巴尼，”五角大楼发言人、海军少将约翰·柯比(Rear Adm. John Kirby)说。“我们知道这一点。我们知道ISIL将会继续抢占地盘，他们依旧会侵占村庄和城镇。”柯比少将所说的ISIL是伊斯兰国的另一个名称。
Admiral Kirby also conceded that unlike in Iraq, where the United States has sent scores of military advisers to assist Iraqi and Kurdish troops, Syria offers no ready ground ally.
柯比少将还承认，在伊拉克，美国派了数十名军事顾问协助伊拉克及库尔德部队，但与之不同的是，叙利亚没有提供现成的地面盟友。