It was breakfast time and the people participating in a study of red meat and its consequences had hot, sizzling sirloin steaks plopped down in front of them. The researcher himself bought a George Foreman grill for the occasion, and the nurse assisting him did the cooking.
正值早餐时间，参与一项对红肉及其影响研究的人们吃了摆在面前冒着热气、滋滋作响的西冷牛排。研究员为了这自己买了一台乔治·福尔曼(George Foreman)牌烤架，协助他工作的护士负责烹调。
For the sake of science, these six men and women ate every last juicy bite of the 8-ounce steaks. Then they waited to have their blood drawn.
以科学研究的名义，这六名男、女每人吃了一份8盎司（约合227克）重的多汁牛排，一点都没剩。然后，他们等待抽血。
Dr. Stanley Hazen of the Cleveland Clinic, who led the study, and his colleagues had accumulated evidence for a surprising new explanation of why red meat may contribute to heart disease. And they were testing it with this early morning experiment.
主持这项研究的克利夫兰医学中心(Cleveland Clinic)的斯坦利·黑曾(Stanley Hazen)医生和他的同事们已经积累了证据，为红肉可能引发心脏病提出一个令人惊讶的新解释。他们正以这次早餐实验来验证其结论。
The researchers had come to believe that what damaged hearts was not just the thick edge of fat on steaks, or the delectable marbling of their tender interiors. In fact, these scientists suspected that saturated fat and cholesterol made only a minor contribution to the increased amount of heart disease seen in red-meat eaters. The real culprit, they proposed, was a little-studied chemical that is burped out by bacteria in the intestines after people eat red meat. It is quickly converted by the liver into yet another little-studied chemical called TMAO that gets into the blood and increases the risk of heart disease.
研究人员逐渐认识到，对心脏有害的不仅是牛排边角上厚厚的肥肉，或中间幼嫩美味的大理石状肉。事实上，这些科学家怀疑，饱和脂肪和胆固醇只是喜食红肉者心脏疾病多发的一小部分诱因。他们提出，真正的罪魁祸首却是一种在人们吃了红肉以后由肠道内细菌释放出来的化学物质，此前甚少有人研究。这种物质会很快被肝脏转化成另一种少有研究的化学物质，称为氧化三甲胺(TMAO)，进入血液后增加心脏病的风险。
That, at least, was the theory. So the question that morning was: Would a burst of TMAO show up in people’s blood after they ate steak? And would the same thing happen to a vegan who had not eaten meat for at least a year and who consumed the same meal?
至少理论上如此。所以，那天早上的问题就是：他们吃了牛排以后，血液中是否会爆发出大量的氧化三甲胺？至少一年没吃肉的纯素食者，吃了同样的一顿饭后，是否会出现同样的情况？
The answers were: yes, there was a TMAO burst in the five meat eaters; and no, the vegan did not have it. And TMAO levels turned out to predict heart attack risk in humans, the researchers found. The researchers also found that TMAO actually caused heart disease in mice. Additional studies with 23 vegetarians and vegans and 51 meat eaters showed that meat eaters normally had more TMAO in their blood and that they, unlike those who spurned meat, readily made TMAO after swallowing pills with carnitine.
答案是：会，在五位食肉者身上的确出现了氧化三甲胺的激增；不会，纯素食者没有出现这样的情况。经研究证明，氧化三甲胺的水平是能够预测人类心肌梗死风险的。研究人员还发现，氧化三甲胺的确会让小鼠得心脏病。另外对23位素食者和纯素食者以及51位肉食者的研究显示，肉食者的血液中通常含有更多氧化三甲胺，和拒绝吃肉的人不同，他们在服用了含有肉碱的药后就会立刻产生出氧化三甲胺。
“It’s really a beautiful combination of mouse studies and human studies to tell a story I find quite plausible,” said Dr. Daniel J. Rader, a heart disease researcher at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, who was not involved in the research.
宾西法尼亚大学医学院(University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine)心脏病研究员丹尼尔·J·雷德(Daniel J. Rader)医生称，“通过小鼠和人体研究来共同阐述一个理论，这真的是一种完美结合，我觉得这一结论很可信。”雷德医生没有参与这项研究。
Researchers say the work could lead to new treatments for heart disease — perhaps even an antibiotic to specifically wipe out the bacterial culprit — and also to a new way to assess heart disease risk by looking for TMAO in the blood.
研究人员说，这项研究工作有可能为心脏疾病带来新的治疗方案，甚至可能找到一种抗生素，能有针对性地清除引发问题的细菌，也可能发现一种测定心脏病风险的新方法——查看血液中的氧化三甲胺。
Of course, critical questions remain. Would people reduce their heart attack risk if they lowered their blood TMAO levels? An association between TMAO levels in the blood and heart disease risk does not necessarily mean that one causes the other. And which gut bacteria in particular are the culprits?
当然，关键问题依然存在。如果人们能够降低他们血液中氧化三甲胺的水平，是不是就能减少心肌梗死的风险？血液中氧化三甲胺的水平与心脏病风险的联系未必意味着，它们之间存在因果关系。并且，引发问题的到底是哪一种肠道细菌呢？
There also are questions about the safety of supplements, like energy drinks and those used in body building. Such supplements often contain carnitine, a substance found mostly in red meat.
还有关于补剂的安全问题，如能量饮料和健美补剂。这类补剂通常含有肉碱，一种主要存在于红肉中的物质。
But the investigators’ extensive experiments in both humans and animals, published Sunday in Nature Medicine, have persuaded scientists not connected with the study to seriously consider this new theory of why red meat eaten too often might be bad for people.
然而这项周日发表在《自然医学》(Nature Medicine)杂志上的研究所进行的大量人类和实验，对和此次研究无关的科学家们来说已经足够有说服力，在为何经常吃红肉会对人有害的问题上，这项新理论引起了他们的重视。 
Dr. Hazen began his research five years ago with a scientific fishing expedition. He directs a study of patients who come to the Cleveland Clinic for evaluations. Over the years, there have been 10,000. All were at risk for heart disease and agreed to provide blood samples and to be followed so the researchers would know if any patient had a heart attack or died of heart disease in the three years after the first visit. Those samples enabled him to look for small molecules in the blood to see whether any were associated with heart attacks or deaths.
黑曾医生的研究始于五年前的一次科学调查。他主持了一项对克利夫兰医学中心患者的研究。几年下来研究对象达到了1万人。所有患者都有罹患心脏病的风险，他们同意提供血液样本并接受跟踪调查，这样研究人员就能够了解，是否有患者在初次就诊后三年内出现心肌梗死或死于心脏疾病。这些样本使黑曾医生能够寻找血液内的小分子，来看看其中是否有与心肌梗死或死亡相关的。
That study and a series of additional experiments led to the discovery that a red meat substance no one had suspected — carnitine — seemed to be a culprit. Carnitine is found in red meat and gets its name from the Latin word carnis, the root of carnivore, Dr. Hazen said. It is also found in other foods, he noted, including fish and chicken and even dairy products, but in smaller amounts. Red meat, he said, is the major source, and for many people who eat a lot of red meat, it may be a concern.
这项研究及一系列附加的实验发现，红肉中的一种从未成为怀疑对象的物质——肉碱——似乎是罪魁祸首。黑曾医生说“肉碱”(carnitine)存在于红肉中，这个名称来自于拉丁词carnis，也就是食肉动物(carnivore)一词的词根。他指出，其他食物中也有肉碱，包括鱼肉和鸡肉，甚至乳制品，不过量都很小。他说红肉是肉碱的主要来源，对那些大量食用红肉的人来说，它可能是一种隐患。
The researchers found that carnitine was not dangerous by itself. Instead, the problem arose when it was metabolized by bacteria in the intestines and ended up as TMAO in the blood.
研究人员发现，肉碱本身并不危险。然而，当肉碱在肠道内被细菌分解，并最终成为血液中的氧化三甲胺时，问题就会出现。
That led to the steak-eating study. It turned out that within a couple of hours of a regular meat-eater having a steak, TMAO levels in the blood soared.
这导致了那项吃牛排的研究。结果证明，一个经常食肉的人在食用牛排几小时之内，血液内的氧化三甲胺水平会飙升。
The researchers’ theory, based on their laboratory studies, is that TMAO enables cholesterol to get into artery walls and also prevents the body from excreting excess cholesterol.
研究者基于实验室研究的理论是，氧化三甲胺令胆固醇进入动脉血管壁，并阻止身体排出多余的胆固醇。
But what is it about carnitine that bacteria like? The answer, Dr. Hazen said, is that bacteria use it as a fuel.
但是细菌看上了肉碱什么呢？黑曾医生说，答案就是细菌把它当成一种能量来源。
He said he worries about carnitine-containing energy drinks. Carnitine often is added to the drinks on the assumption that is will speed fat metabolism and increase a person’s energy level, Dr. Hazen said.
他说他对那些含肉碱的能量饮料感到担忧。人们在这些饮料中加入肉碱通常是认为它可以加速脂肪代谢，并提升一个人的能量水平。
Dr. Robert H. Eckel, a professor of medicine at the University of Colorado and a past president of the American Heart Association, worried about how carnitine might be affecting body builders and athletes who often take it because they believe it builds muscle.
令科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)医学教授、美国心脏病协会(American Heart Association)前会长罗伯特·H·埃克尔博士(Robert H. Eckel)担心的是，肉碱会对健美人士及运动员有影响，这些人认为肉碱有增肌作用，因此经常饮用。
Those supplements, Dr. Hazen said, “are scary, especially for our kids.”
黑曾医生说，这些补剂“很可怕，特别是对我们的孩子来说。”