Researchers have reconstructed an ancient genome that is 10 times as old as any retrieved so far, and they now say that DNA should be recoverable from animals that lived one million years ago. This would greatly extend biologists’ ability to understand the evolutionary past.
研究人员重建了一个古代基因组，这个基因组距今的时间是此前被恢复的最古老基因组的10倍。研究人员现在表示，应该可以复原生活在100万年前的动物的DNA。这将极大提升生物学家理解进化历史的能力。
The genome was that of a horse that lived about 700,000 years ago in what is now the Yukon Territory in Canada, and its reconstruction has already led to new insights. The researchers who sequenced it then analyzed DNA from a less ancient horse, one that lived 43,000 years ago, as well as five contemporary horse breeds and a donkey named Willy that resides in the Copenhagen Zoo. They concluded that the genus that gave rise to modern horses, zebras and donkeys — Equus — arose about four million years ago, twice as far back as had been thought.
这个基因组的主人是一匹生活在大约70万年前的马，这匹马生活的地方是现在的加拿大育空地区。基因组的重建已经带来了一些新的见解。研究人员先对其进行测序，然后分析了另外一匹距今不那么久远的、生活在4.3万年前的马，以及五种当代马和哥本哈根动物园一头名为威利(Willy)的驴的DNA。他们的结论是，进化出现代马、斑马和驴的马属出现在大约400万年前，这比此前认为的时间早一倍。
Before this work, the oldest genome that had been recovered was that of a Denisovan human who lived 70,000 years ago. The new finding, if accepted, would extend by tenfold the reach of paleogenomics, the study of ancient genomes reconstructed from fossil bones. Within the last few decades this young science has become a powerful complement to paleontology, the study of fossils, as a way of reconstructing evolutionary history.
在这项工作之前，被复原的最古老基因组属于一个生活在7万年前的丹尼索瓦人。新的研究发现如果得到认可，将把古基因组学可追溯的年代范围扩大十倍。古基因组学是对从骨化石里复原的古代基因组进行研究。最近几十年，这一年轻的科学作为一种重现进化史的方式，成了以化石为研究对象的古生物学的有力补充。
“I think the field has now in many respects matured,” said Svante Paabo of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, who solved many of the early problems and went on to reconstruct the genome of Neanderthals and more recently of the Denisovan human. “It is clear that with frozen material one can go far back in time, approaching a million years,” he said, but the challenge now was to retrieve ancient genomes from temperate zones, where important fossil bones are more plentiful.
“我认为，这个领域在许多方面已经成熟了，”马克斯·普朗克进化人类学研究所(Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology)的斯万特·帕珀(Svante Paabo)说。帕珀解决了早期的许多问题，然后先后着手重组尼安德特人和丹尼索瓦人的基因组。“显然，借助冰冻材料，我们可以回到很久以前，接近100万年前，”他说。但现在的挑战是复原来自温带的古基因组，温带的重要骨化石更丰富。
The horse DNA was extracted from a hind toe bone found in the Thistle Creek region of the Yukon’s Klondike gold mines. It owes its remarkable longevity to the bone having been buried in permafrost, which kept the DNA both very cold and very dry.
这匹马的DNA取自育空地区克朗代克金矿区蓟溪遗址(Thistle Creek)地区发现的一个后脚趾。它能令人惊叹地被保存这么多年，多亏了被埋在永久冻土中，永久冻土保持了DNA的低温和干燥。
The researchers who discovered the bone, Duane Froese of the University of Alberta and Eske Willerslev, an expert on ancient DNA at the University of Copenhagen, first estimated its date from the layers of volcanic ash where it was found. They also conducted tests that showed that the horse bone, despite its age, was likely to contain DNA, even though the chemical starts to degrade as soon as an animal dies.
发现骨头的是阿尔伯塔大学(University of Alberta)的杜安·弗勒泽(Duane Froese)和哥本哈根大学(University of Copenhagen)古代DNA专家埃斯克·威勒斯莱夫(Eske Willerslev)。这两名研究人员首先根据骨头所在地的火山灰层估测它的年代。他们还进行了测试，测试表明，尽管年代久远，但这块马骨很可能含有DNA，虽然动物一死，DNA这种化学物质就会开始降解。
To help establish that the DNA from the horse bone was really 700,000 years old, Dr. Willerslev and Ludovic Orlando, a colleague at the University of Copenhagen, started an ambitious project to analyze the genomes of many other members of the horse evolutionary tree. These include the horse that lived 43,000 years ago, before horses were domesticated; a Przewalski’s horse, a species thought to represent the last living wild horse population; five domestic horse breeds (Arabian, Icelandic, Norwegian fjord, Standardbred and Thoroughbred); and Willy the donkey.
为了帮助确定这些DNA确实来自有70万年历史的马骨，威勒斯莱夫和哥本哈根大学 (Copenhagen University)的同事卢多维克·奥兰多(Ludovic Orlando)开启了一项野心勃勃的项目——分析马类进化树中其他马种的基因。其中包括生活在4.3万年前的马，那时候马还没有经历驯化过程；一匹普氏野马——据信代表最后幸存的野马种群；五种驯养马（阿拉伯马、冰岛马、挪威峡湾马、标准种马和纯种马）；以及名叫威利的驴。
Dr. Orlando said the range of genetic variation in the Thistle Creek bone lay outside that of all the other horses, showing it could not have been contaminated by modern horse DNA. Also, the DNA in the bone was much more fragmented than that of late ice age horse bones from the same region, indicating it was older. The geological evidence for the bone’s age is “very secure,” Dr. Orlando said. With this and other data he is confident that the Thistle Creek horse and its genome are indeed 700,000 years old.
奥兰多表示，蓟溪遗址的马骨遗传变异的范围，处在所有其他马种的变异范围以外，说明它不可能受到现代马DNA的沾染。另外，这块马骨中的DNA比同一地区冰河时期晚期的马骨DNA分裂程度高得多，说明这块马骨的年代更为久远。奥兰多表示，证明马骨骨龄的地质证据“非常可靠”。凭借这个证据及其他数据，他确信蓟溪遗址的马及其基因组确实有70万年的历史。
In a report published in the journal Nature on Wednesday, he and colleagues say that they have identified 29 regions in the genome of domestic horses where the DNA shows statistical evidence of selection, meaning that variant genes in these regions were favored as horses became domesticated. But each of the regions is about 200,000 DNA units in length and contains many genes, so the researchers do not yet know which of these genes was the target of selection, Dr. Orlando said.
在《自然》杂志(Nature)周三刊登的一份报告中，奥兰多和同事表示，他们识别了驯养马基因组中的29个区，这些区中的DNA展示了选择的统计证据，这意味着，随着野生马被驯化，这些区的变异基因受到青睐。但奥兰多表示，每一个区的长度有大约20万个DNA单元，包含很多基因，因此研究人员还不知道哪些基因是选择的目标。
Another finding from the new collection of horse genome data is that the Przewalski’s horse shows no signs of having interbred with domestic horses, as some researchers had assumed was likely. Since the horse is threatened in the wild, this gives added reason for protecting it.
对马基因组数据的新一轮收集还有另一项发现：没有迹象表明普氏野马曾与驯养马杂交繁殖，一些研究人员此前假设很可能发生了杂交。由于这种马在野外属于濒危物种，这为保护它提供了更多理由。
Bruce MacFadden, an expert on fossil horses at the University of Florida, said the Danish team’s findings were reasonable in light of the fossil data. “It’s always wonderful when the fossil and molecular evidence coincide,” he said. But the influence of climate on horse demography is more complicated than the genomic data suggests, he said.
佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)马化石专家布鲁斯·麦克法登(Bruce MacFadden)表示，从化石数据来看，丹麦团队的发现是合理的。他说，“当化石与分子证据相符时，情况总是非常好的。”但他表示，气候对马类种群结构的影响，要比基因组数据所表明的更加复杂。
The horse’s genome consists of 2.7 billion units of DNA. The DNA extracted from the Thistle Creek bone was fragmented into minute pieces about 25 to 75 DNA units in length. The Danish team calculates that pieces only 25 units long could survive for a million years, which they see as the theoretical limit for reconstructing ancient genomes.
马的基因组包含27亿个DNA单元。从蓟溪遗址的马骨提取的DNA分裂为微小片段，长度约为25至75个DNA单元。根据丹麦团队的估计，长度只有25个DNA单元的片段能够存活100万年，他们认为，这是重组古代基因组的理论极限。