Steve Ballmer’s surprise announcement that he will be resigning as Microsoft’s C.E.O. has set off a huge flood of commentary. Being neither a tech geek nor a management guru, I can’t add much on those fronts. I do, however, think I know a bit about economics, and I also read a lot of history. So the Ballmer announcement has me thinking about network externalities and Ibn Khaldun. And thinking about these things, I’d argue, can help ensure that we draw the right lessons from this particular corporate upheaval.
史蒂夫·鲍尔默(Steve Ballmer)出人意料地宣布将卸下微软(Microsoft)首席执行官一职，引来众说纷纭。我既不是一名科技极客，也非管理大师，因此无法在这些方面说什么，但我想我在经济学方面还是略知一二，也阅读过大量历史资料。鲍尔默的声明让我想起了两件事，网络外部性和伊本·赫勒敦(Ibn Khaldun)。我认为，从这些事出发能让我们从此次微软的巨变中汲取正确的经验。
First, about network externalities: Consider the state of the computer industry circa 2000, when Microsoft’s share price hit its peak and the company seemed utterly dominant. Remember the T-shirts depicting Bill Gates as a Borg (part of the hive mind from “Star Trek”), with the legend, “Resistance is futile. Prepare to be assimilated”? Remember when Microsoft was at the center of concerns about antitrust enforcement?
首先是关于网络外部性：回想一下2000年前后电脑行业的状况，当时微软股价触及巅峰水平，公司看起来似乎不可一世。记得吗？那些T恤将比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)画成《星际迷航》(Star Trek)中奉行集体意识的博格人(Borg)，还印着这样一行字——“抵抗是无用功，准备好被同化”。还记得吗？当时微软还处在反垄断案件的中心。
The odd thing was that nobody seemed to like Microsoft’s products. By all accounts, Apple computers were better than PCs using Windows as their operating system. Yet the vast majority of desktop and laptop computers ran Windows. Why?
奇怪的是，那时似乎没有人喜欢微软的产品，大家都说苹果电脑比使用Windows操作系统的PC要好。但绝大多数台式机和笔记本电脑都运行Windows系统，这是为什么？
The answer, basically, is that everyone used Windows because everyone used Windows. If you had a Windows PC and wanted help, you could ask the guy in the next cubicle, or the tech people downstairs, and have a very good chance of getting the answer you needed. Software was designed to run on PCs; peripheral devices were designed to work with PCs.
每个人都用Windows系统的根本原因是，人人都用这个系统。如果你有一台运行Windows的PC，需要帮助的时候你问旁边隔间的同事或者楼下技术部的人，很有可能就会得到所需的答案。软件是为PC设计的，周边设备也是为配合PC而设计的。
That’s network externalities in action, and it made Microsoft a monopolist.
这就是网络外部性在起作用，也让微软垄断了市场。
The story of how that state of affairs arose is tangled, but I don’t think it’s too unfair to say that Apple mistakenly believed that ordinary buyers would value its superior quality as much as its own people did. So it charged premium prices, and by the time it realized how many people were choosing cheaper machines that weren’t insanely great but did the job, Microsoft’s dominance was locked in.
要说清楚事情是怎么发展到这一步并不容易。有种说法是苹果误以为普通消费者与他们自己人一样看重苹果产品的超群品质，我觉得这种说法并非没有道理。因此，苹果定价很高。但很多人会选择品质没有那么出众却仍有同样功能、价格还便宜的电脑，待到苹果意识到这种人的数量众多时，微软已经奠定了自己的统治地位。
Now, any such discussion brings out the Apple faithful, who insist that anything Windows can do Apple can do better and that only idiots buy PCs. They may be right. But it doesn’t matter, because there are many such idiots, myself included. And Windows still dominates the personal computer market.
现在，任何这类讨论都会激起忠诚的苹果粉丝的反驳，他们坚持认为只要是Windows能做的事，苹果都能做得更好，而且只有傻子才会买PC。他们可能没错。但这没什么，因为世界上有很多这样的傻子，我就是其中一个。Windows也仍然主宰着个人电脑的市场。
The trouble for Microsoft came with the rise of new devices whose importance it famously failed to grasp. “There’s no chance,” declared Mr. Ballmer in 2007, “that the iPhone is going to get any significant market share.”
微软的麻烦众所周知，就是未及时发现新型设备的重要性。鲍尔默在2007年曾宣称，“iPhone不可能占据很大的市场份额。”
How could Microsoft have been so blind? Here’s where Ibn Khaldun comes in. He was a 14th-century Islamic philosopher who basically invented what we would now call the social sciences. And one insight he had, based on the history of his native North Africa, was that there was a rhythm to the rise and fall of dynasties.
微软怎么会如此盲目？这就是我们引入伊本·赫勒敦的时候了。他是一位14世纪伊斯兰哲学家，基本上创立了我们今天所称的社会科学。他来自北非，基于北非历史得出一个观点：朝代兴衰自有规律。
Desert tribesmen, he argued, always have more courage and social cohesion than settled, civilized folk, so every once in a while they will sweep in and conquer lands whose rulers have become corrupt and complacent. They create a new dynasty — and, over time, become corrupt and complacent themselves, ready to be overrun by a new set of barbarians.
他认为，沙漠中的部落成员一定比已定居的开化民族更勇敢，社会凝聚力更强，因此每隔一段时间，他们就会狂飙而至，占领统治者已经变得腐朽自满的土地。然后他们会建立起一个新的朝代，随着时间推移，他们也会同样变得腐朽而自满，最后再被一群新的野蛮部落推翻。
I don’t think it’s much of a stretch to apply this story to Microsoft, a company that did so well with its operating-system monopoly that it lost focus, while Apple — still wandering in the wilderness after all those years — was alert to new opportunities. And so the barbarians swept in from the desert.
我觉得将这个故事安在微软和苹果身上并不会太牵强。微软，一个垄断操作系统市场的公司突然失去了重心，而苹果，多年之后仍然徘徊在荒野上伺机而动。故事到最后是，野蛮人从沙漠席卷而来。
Sometimes, by the way, barbarians are invited in by a domestic faction seeking a shake-up. This may be what’s happening at Yahoo: Marissa Mayer doesn’t look much like a fierce Bedouin chieftain, but she’s arguably filling the same functional role.
顺便说一下，野蛮部落有时候是由政权内部企图重组的人请进来的。这也许就是发生在雅虎(Yahoo)的情况：玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)看上去并不像一个凶悍的贝都因部落酋长，但她无疑担当了同样的角色。
Anyway, the funny thing is that Apple’s position in mobile devices now bears a strong resemblance to Microsoft’s former position in operating systems. True, Apple produces high-quality products. But they are, by most accounts, little if any better than those of rivals, while selling at premium prices.
不论如何，有趣的问题是，苹果现在在移动领域的地位与微软之前在操作系统的地位极其相似。没错，苹果生产高质量的产品，但很多人都认为，如果说它们真的优于同类产品，优势也并不大，同时售价却极高。
So why do people buy them? Network externalities: lots of other people use iWhatevers, there are more apps for iOS than for other systems, so Apple becomes the safe and easy choice. Meet the new boss, same as the old boss.
那么人们为什么要买苹果产品呢？这就有关网络外部性了：许多其他人都在用i系列产品，比起其他操作系统，有更多适用iOS的应用，所以苹果已成为了安全和容易的选择。这就是我们的新老大，和过去的一样。
Is there a policy moral here? Let me make at least a negative case: Even though Microsoft did not, in fact, end up taking over the world, those antitrust concerns weren’t misplaced. Microsoft was a monopolist, it did extract a lot of monopoly rents, and it did inhibit innovation. Creative destruction means that monopolies aren’t forever, but it doesn’t mean that they’re harmless while they last. This was true for Microsoft yesterday; it may be true for Apple, or Google, or someone not yet on our radar, tomorrow.
那么，我们能从中学到什么政策教训吗？我可以至少举出一个反面的例子：事实上，虽然微软最终没有统治世界，那些反垄断顾虑也并非无中生有。微软的确是一个垄断者，它的确抽取了大量的垄断利益，它也的确阻碍了创新。创造性的破坏意味着垄断无法长久，但这并不意味着，垄断还在持续的时候，没有太大破坏力。这样的情况已经发生在微软身上，它未来可能也会出现在苹果、谷歌或其他尚未进入我们视野的公司身上。