The next incarnation of the offering plan has arrived, and it is paperless. The developers of high-end residential buildings are turning to a smorgasbord of technological innovations to woo and wow potential buyers of condominiums with every bell and whistle except one: the apartments, since they don’t yet exist. So developers are finding new ways to simulate them — and stimulate sales.
全新形式的销售企划书已经出现，而且，它还具有无纸化的特点。高端住宅的开发商正借助于花样百出的技术创新，来吸引和取悦共管公寓的潜在买家。他们使出了浑身解数，唯一拿不出来的，就是公寓本身，因为还没建出来。于是，开发商们开始寻找新办法来模拟公寓的外观，以刺激销售。
The sales gallery for the Greenwich Lane, a five-building, five-townhouse, 200-unit residential behemoth taking shape on the site of the former St. Vincent’s Hospital in Greenwich Village, is dominated by a technological tool known simply as the Table, which resembles an 84-inch iPad on steroids. Programmed with every ounce of data that went into the development, it is actually a salesman extraordinaire: so convincing was its ability to collate, contrast, and display information — it could juggle four floor plans simultaneously — that it helped sell 100 apartments before the developer, the Rudin family, had even conjured up a single brochure.
格林尼治巷(Greenwich Lane)是一处规模庞大的住宅项目，包含五栋大楼、五座联排别墅，共有200套公寓单元，目前正在格林尼治村(Greenwich Village)的圣文森特医院(St. Vincent’s Hospital)旧址上拔地而起。在其售楼大厅中，有一款高科技工具占据了好大一片地方。它被简单地称为“桌子”(the Table)，看起来就像一台被打了类固醇、变成84英寸（约合2米）大小的iPad。“桌子”的程序里存有这处在开发项目的全部数据，所以，事实上它已经是一名卓越的楼盘销售员了：它整理、对比和展示信息的能力（可以同时玩转四个平面户型图）令人叹为观止，开发商鲁丁(Rudin)家族甚至还没来及为楼盘制作一本宣传册，它就帮他们卖出了100套公寓。
“With this technology, we were able to create a customized e-brochure for every client,” said Michael Rudin, a vice president of the Rudin Management Company. “They could flag the building, the floor plans, the views and the finishes they liked the best, and we’d combine it into a custom-tailored presentation and email it to them.” The project, with units from $2.5 million to more than $30 million, is 70 percent sold.
“有了这项技术，我们就可以为每位客户订制一本电子宣传册了，”鲁丁管理公司(Rudin Management Company)的副总裁迈克尔·鲁丁(Michael Rudin)说，“他们可以标记建筑、户型图、户外景观和他们最喜欢的装修方案。我们就会将这些元素组合起来，为他们量身打造一份演示文件，通过电子邮件发给他们。”该项目的公寓单元售价最低250万美元（约合人民币1547万元），最高超过3000万美元（约合人民币1.9亿元），目前已有70%的单元售出。
At 50 West, a 64-story curved glass tower with 190 units priced from $1.83 million to more than $18 million, Time Equities opted for an interactive gallery with a 16-foot-wide screen that provides 180-degree views from every apartment elevation as well as four customizable model interiors, dioramas, floor plans and a scaled building model that illuminates individual units, all operated by touch-screen computers. Drones did much of the view-centric photography.
西街(West Street)50号是一座64层的弧形玻璃大楼，包含190套公寓单元，售价最低183万美元（约合人民币1133万元），最高超过1800万美元（约合人民币1.1亿元）。其地产商Time Equities在此开设了一间互动式展厅，配备了一块16英尺（约合5米）宽的屏幕，可以查看每一楼层高度窗外的180度全景；以及四套可自定义样板间的装修方案、立体透视图及平面户型图；还有一个按比例缩放的整栋大楼模型，其中的每套单元都亮着灯。这一切，都可以通过电脑触摸屏进行操作。很多以景观为主的照片，都是由无人驾驶飞机拍摄的。
“The days when people had to buy off a two-dimensional floor plan are past,” said Roberta Axelrod, the director of condo sales and marketing at Time Equities.
“人们不得不在二维的平面户型图上绞尽脑汁的时代，已经过去了。”Time Equities的共管公寓销售及营销总监罗伯塔·阿克塞尔罗德(Roberta Axelrod)说。
At the other end of the spectrum, the sales center for 252 East 57th Street, a 93-unit condominium being developed by the World Wide Group and Rose Associates, says it offers customers a less technological and more seamless shopping experience. The trick: sophisticated gadgetry that is virtually invisible.
也有另一个极端的例子。在东57街252号这处由World Wide集团和Rose Associates开发的一栋包含93套单元的共管公寓楼，其售楼中心称，他们为顾客提供了技术含量略低、却更加完美的购房体验。诀窍就在一些几乎不可见的精巧装置上。
“The goal was to make prospective purchasers feel like they’re in a real home where no technology is screaming out at you,” said Julia Hodgson, the project executive for the sponsor.
“我们的目标是要让潜在买家觉得，自己就像置身于一个真正的家里，没有那些高科技的东西来干扰你。”开发商的项目负责人朱莉娅·霍奇森(Julia Hodgson)说。
Rather than giant touch screens or surround-screen immersion, the sales gallery resembles several rooms of a model apartment, and the secret weapon is a wireless coded card system that takes its cues from several disguised boxes in the rooms embedded with data. The technology was customized for the project by Control Group, a company that worked with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to create interactive maps used by riders. “It feels a little like magic,” Ms. Hodgson said. Buyers can sit on a couch and watch multiple versions of a future abode take shape in front of them, controlled by the flip of a coded card.
售楼大厅里并没有配备巨大的触摸屏，或沉浸式环绕屏幕，而是几处酷似单元样板间的房间。其秘密武器就是一套无线编码卡系统，可通过房间里几只经过巧妙伪装、并植入了数据的盒子接收信号。该技术由Control Group公司为该项目量身打造。这家公司还曾与纽约的大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)合作，制作供骑车人使用的互动式地图。“感觉这个系统有点像魔术。”霍奇森说。买家们可以坐在沙发上，通过翻转编码卡，就能控制多种版本的未来新居样式，在他们眼前一一成形。
Here, house hunters can explore a media room, living room, kitchen and bathroom, and use the cards to activate simulations of specific layouts and views for apartments on different floors that are displayed on three large television screens.
在这里，购房者可以到多媒体室、客厅、厨房和浴室的内部进行探索，并利用编码卡，使系统模拟特定布局，和不同楼层公寓窗外的景观。这些图像都会显示在三块大型电视屏幕上。
“People feel so informed by it that there is a confidence that there will be no surprises,” said Pamela D’Arc of Stribling & Associates, the sales director. The units, expected to be completed by late 2016, range from $4.5 million to $40 million for the 65th-floor penthouse. “It translates to people being wowed by an interactive buying experience that leaves nothing to the imagination.”
“人们觉得自己获得了充足的信息，所以确信交房时不会有意料之外的情况发生，”Stribling & Associates的销售总监帕梅拉·达尔克(Pamela D’Arc)说。这些公寓单元预计2016年年底完工，起价在450万美元（约合人民币2785万元）；价格最高的是65层的那套顶楼公寓，价格为4000万美元（约合人民币2.5亿元）。“这种模式令人们惊艳于互动式的购房体验，使所有信息一览无余，再也无需凭空揣测。”