David Karp lives by the principle that the world doesn’t need more flashy gadgets and fancy software — which would be fine, had he not founded Tumblr.
大卫·卡普(David Karp)生活的原则是认为这个世界已经不需要更多抢眼的配件和花哨的软件了——这本来是可以的，只是他又发明了Tumblr。
“I DON’T LIKE SCREENS very much,” says David Karp, founder and chief executive officer of Tumblr, the popular microblogging platform. “Big bright monitors drive me nuts”; screens in the bedroom are “gross.” He takes his rule seriously, for in Karp’s newly renovated loft, in south Williamsburg, Brooklyn, screens are scarce, as is, for that matter, anything particularly shiny or smooth. It is, instead, a dedication to all that is aged, rough or both: ancient bricks, weathered concrete, blackened steel and reclaimed oak. While Karp designs the future, his personal aesthetic is worlds apart from the Star Trek flight deck or the Google campus that form our usual idea of what is to come. Karp doesn’t believe, he says, that the next century is necessarily about “more screens covering more surface area.”
“我并不是很喜欢屏幕，”流行微博平台Tumblr的创始人兼首席执行官大卫·卡普(David Karp)说，“光亮的大屏幕监视器会让我抓狂”，而卧室里出现屏幕简直就是“恶心”。卡普对于这些规则是很严格的，在他布鲁克林区威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)南部新装修的loft敞开式公寓里，屏幕几乎绝迹，甚至连是一些特别闪亮和光滑的东西也都少之又少。相反，公寓里满是一些或老旧、粗糙，或者既老旧又粗糙的东西：古老的石头，久经年月的水泥，发涂黑的钢铁和回收的橡木等。卡普的设计着眼于未来，但一般人所想象的未来是如同《星际迷航》(Star Trek)的驾驶舱或是谷歌(Google)办公园区之类的地方，卡普的个人美学和这些相去甚远。卡普说，他不认为下一个世纪必定是“更多的屏幕覆盖更多生活表面积”的世界。
He is an apparent paradox: a high-tech design leader with a home and possessions that display little affection for anything postwar; frankly, most of the 20th century seems suspect to him. Nothing in his home looks particularly futuristic, or technological, at least as we’ve usually understood those terms. A house may be a machine for living, but Karp says, “I don’t want our house doing very much.” It’s a quiet space, with few distractions; one feels that stone tablets might not be entirely out of place. The newest-looking machine in the house is the metal carcass of a classic 1969 Honda CB160 motorcycle, apparently in the midst of a living-room repair job.
看得出来，他是个矛盾体：一位高科技的设计领袖，他的家和他所拥有的东西却似乎对任何“二战”后出现的事物都不太感冒；坦白地说，他似乎觉得20世纪的大部分的东西对他而言都不可靠。他家里没有任何东西会令人觉得特别有未来感，也没有什么高科技的东西，至少以我们对那些词汇的标准理解来说是这样。一所房子可以是一台服务于生活的机器，但卡普说：“我不想让我们的房子承载太多功能做太多事情。”这是一个宁静的空间，能令人分心的东西很少；你会感觉，也许连石碑放在这里都不会显得不合适。房子里看起来最新的机器，就是一辆经典款1969年本田CB160摩托车的金属残骸了，很显然，它是正在进行中的“客厅维修工程”里的一部分。
The apartment is built with “analog technology,” says John Gachot, the principal designer, who worked with Karp on the renovation. Gachot specializes in solid, old-school design; working with his wife, Christine, their recent projects include the Acme restaurant in NoHo, the West Village home of Marc Jacobs and a shuffleboard club now being built in Gowanus, Brooklyn. Gachot compares Karp’s loft to a submarine, where everything is made of tested, reliable materials that are designed to work together perfectly. “It’s mildly steampunk,” he adds, pointing out a few of the details, like tin ceilings and brass screws, at least “in the sense of looking backward.” The materials and methods are genuinely old: the reclaimed oak that dominates the living room comes from an old dairy farm in Pennsylvania, and the brick and concrete have aged with the building. “It’s very open and honest,” he says of the design. “Everything is exposed, and you can see all the connections.” Switching metaphors, he compares the home to the design of classic motorcycles, one of Karp’s obsessions, which are naked machines, all working parts exposed. Above all, Karp’s home is about as different as it is possible to be, style-wise, from the tech palaces of the West, or the smart homes of the 1990s that were once supposed to be the future.
据房子的首席设计师约翰·加绍(John Gachot)说，这所公寓是用“模拟技术”建造的。加绍与卡普一起进行房子的翻修，他擅长的是沉稳的老学院派设计。他与妻子克里斯汀(Christine)合作，近期的项目包括了位于北休斯敦街的Acme餐厅，马克·雅可各布(Marc Jacobs)位于西村(West Village)的家，以及布鲁克林格瓦努斯正在建造中的一个沙壶球俱乐部。加绍把卡普的公寓比作一艘潜水艇，里面每一样东西所用的材料都是经过测试并证实可靠的，而且彼此间被设计得严丝合缝。“它有一点蒸汽朋克的感觉，”他补充说，并指出了其中一些细节，比如锡制白铁做的天花板和黄铜的螺丝钉，说那至少“是有一点点怀古的感觉。”材料和工艺则确确实实是古老的：占据起居室的那些回收来的橡木，来自宾夕法尼亚州一家古老的乳制品农场，而砖石石块和水泥也都和这座建筑一起久经了年月。“它非常开放和坦诚，”他这样评价这些设计，“所有东西都显露在外，于是你可以看到所有的连接线。”然后他又换了一个比喻，将这个家比作卡普所着迷的经典款摩托车设计，也就是裸体的机械，所有的运转机件都裸露在外。最重要的是，卡普的家在风格上尽可能地远离西方社会的科技圣殿模式，或者像那些曾被认为是未来趋势的20世纪90年代智能家居风格。
In the popular imagination, tech leaders don’t live this way. They inhabit some kind of indistinct place, defined less geographically than temporally, for the technologist is meant to live slightly ahead of the rest of us. One imagines Google’s Sergey Brin spending his days encased in advanced wearable technology, orbiting the earth in a driverless spaceship, landing only to introduce humanity to new products from the mother ship. On the West Coast, the credible technologist simply must use devices and materials more advanced than the masses use. One wouldn’t want to be caught lugging around an old Dell laptop, or, God forbid, a BlackBerry.
在普遍的想象中，科技领袖们的生活不是这样的。他们应该住在某种难以分辨的地方，显示的更多是时间上而不是地理位置上的不同，因为技术工程师就应该活得比我们其他人超前一些。你会想象谷歌的谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)应该每天被包围在各种可以穿在身上的高科技当中，坐在一艘无人驾驶的太空船里巡游整个地球，为了将母机船上的新产品介绍给人类而偶尔降落到地面。在西岸，值得人们信赖的技术工程师，所使用的的设备和材料就必须是一些比大众所用的更先进的设备和材料。他们不会想被人看见自己拿着一台旧款的戴尔(Dell)笔记本电脑或者——天啊——黑莓(BlackBerry)手机到处跑。
Karp’s style may not fit the public’s idea of homo futurus, but it is perfectly consistent with the image of New York’s tech industry. New York tech, where Tumblr is based, is distinguished from its Silicon Valley cousin less by technical merit, and more by its design aesthetic and its close relationship with the creativity and culture of the city itself. While still small, New York has had legitimate hits and is now being taken increasingly seriously.
卡普的风格或许并不符合公众对于“未来人”的想象，但却与纽约高科技产业的形象完美契合。Tumblr所在的纽约科技产业界与硅谷的兄弟产业并不一样，但它的不同并不在于技术水平，而更多地是在于设计美学，以及它与这座城市创意文化的紧密联系上。虽然纽约科技产业仍然很小，但它已经做出过一些受到行业认可的重要成就，而且现在已经越来越得到重视。
Tumblr, the company Karp founded with his friend Marco Arment, offers free personalized home pages and as such is technically a competitor to Facebook and Twitter. However, the comparison ends there. Tumblr is minimalist and easy to use but also infinitely customizable; it is a genuine creative tool. Using Facebook, meanwhile, demands about all the creativity you’d need to renew a passport. As Karp puts it, “here’s your vanilla white profile page: now fill in your interests, add your friends.” He built Tumblr in reaction to Facebook, which he regards as “insanely restrictive.”
Tumblr是卡普和他的朋友马可·阿蒙特(Marco Arment)一起创立的公司，它提供的是一种免费的个人化主页，于是在技术上，它也是Facebook和Twitter的竞争者。不过，对比也就到此为止了。Tumblr遵循是一种极简主义原则，非常易于使用，同时又具有无穷的个人化可定制性；它是一个真正的创意工具。相比之下，使用Facebook所需要的创意大致上和更新一本护照没什么两样。用卡普的话说，“这就是你的香草白个人资料主页：现在请填入你的兴趣爱好，并且加入你的好友吧。”他正是针对那个他认为“局限得不可理喻”的Facebook而建立了Tumblr的。
Indeed, much of the New York tech industry can be understood as a reaction to the one-size-fits-all ethos of Silicon Valley. “There’s something very prescriptive in how the Valley builds its tools,” Karp says, “even the ones that are supposed to be expressive.” Consider Etsy, which is a kind of eBay for the design-conscious; or Kickstarter, which provides a platform for financing creative projects; Shutterstock, which licenses images; or BuzzFeed, a social news Web site. The major New York tech firms, with the exception of Foursquare, New York’s popular social-networking app, either cater to creators, or depend on some tie to the creative or media industries as their comparative advantage.
确实，纽约科技产业里的很多东西，都可以理解成是对硅谷“一体通用”哲学的回应。“硅谷所建造的工具里，有着某种非常指令性的东西，”卡普说，“哪怕有些东西本该是让人表达自己的。”比如Etsy，一个特别在意设计类似于为设计爱好者打造的eBay；又比如Kickstarter，一个为创意项目融资的平台；还有为图片批授版权的Shutterstock；又或者如BuzzFeed，一个社交新闻网站。纽约科技产业的大公司，除了流行的社交网络应用程序Foursquare以外，其他的基本都是要么是为了只迎合其自己的创办人，要么就是依赖自己与创意或者媒体产业的关系来体现优势。
That New York tech has more style than its West Coast counterpart cannot be doubted. But the nagging question is whether the East has substance as well, and more particularly, whether it can actually compete with the power, money and experience of Silicon Valley. Tumblr, which is among New York’s most successful tech firms, sold for $1.1 billion to Yahoo earlier this year, which is a trifle compared with Microsoft (valued, at press time, at $263 billion), Google ($299 billion) or Apple ($423 billion). Nonetheless, Karp, who admits “we’ve got a ton to prove,” is optimistic about New York tech over the long run. “Historically, single-industry cities eventually collapse,” he says, referring to Silicon Valley and effectively throwing down the gauntlet. “It’s the New Yorks, the Londons, the cities that have multiple industries, that are able to survive.” That’s what history teaches, he says, but “it’s really easy to forget that when you’re at the forefront of whatever industry.”
纽约科技产业毫无疑问要比西岸的同行更有设计风格。不过一个挥之不去的问题是，东岸是否也有同样的内在实质，或者更准确地说，它是否能够在影响力、资金以及经验等方面与硅谷竞争。Tumblr是纽约最成功的科技公司之一，它在今年早些时候以11亿美元的价格卖给了雅虎(Yahoo)，这相比起微软（目前市值2630亿美元）、谷歌（2990亿美元）或者苹果（4230亿美元）来说，只能算是个零头。不过，卡普虽然承认“我们还有很多东西有待证明”，但却对纽约科技产业的长远未来颇为乐观。“从历史上来说，单一产业的城市最终都会崩塌，”他指的是硅谷，而且实际上是有力地下了一道战书，“而那些拥有多元产业的城市，比如纽约、伦敦等，才有能力生存下去。”他说，这是历史所教给我们的，但“当你身处某一项产业的最前沿时，这一点很容易会被忘记”。
The long view of New York’s prospects is also what appealed to Andrew McLaughlin, a former Google executive who moved east and is now senior vice president at New York’s Betaworks, which bills itself as “a company that builds companies.” (The New York Times Company is an investor.) “If you’re placing a long-term bet on consumer tech,” he says, “then the mix of skills you’ll find in New York, while maybe less technical, seems like a better bet to make.” As a veteran of both East Coast and West Coast tech, McLaughlin captures the aesthetic gap as “the difference between a Palo Alto office park and a Bushwick loft.” For one thing, “New York takes authenticity very seriously,” he says, while “the West Coast doesn’t give a damn.”
纽约的长远前景也吸引了谷歌的前高管安德鲁·麦克劳林(Andrew McLaughlin)，他后来转战东岸，如今是纽约Betaworks的高级副总裁。这家公司把自己标榜为“一家创建企业的企业”。（纽约时报公司[The New York Times Company]是投资者之一。）“如果你要在消费者科技产业上下长远的赌注，”他说，“那你在纽约能找到的技能组合似乎是一个更值得押的赌注，哪怕它或许并不那么纯技术化。”在东岸和西岸都算得上资深人士的麦克劳林，将两者在美学上的差距看成是“一家布希维克公寓和整个帕洛阿尔托办公园区的区别”。他说，其中一方面就是，“纽约对于真实本真性是看重的，”他说，而“西岸却对此不屑一顾”。
“Functionality” matters most, he says, and while he has enormous respect for Google, “no one at Google spends time thinking about how to make their office park ‘authentic.’ They want it to be awesome, with robots, driverless cars, that kind of stuff.” Another difference is that New York’s tech industry tends to work with, or on top of, what’s already there, whether physically or conceptually. “The West Coast thing is to destroy what came before,” while New York is “layering and working with what’s here already,” McLaughlin says, making reference to Rem Koolhaas’s seminal 1978 manifesto on urbanism, “Delirious New York.”
他说，“功能性”是最重要的，而虽然他很尊重谷歌，但是“在谷歌，里没有人花时间去想怎样将他们的办公园区变得‘真实’。他们想要让它令人惊叹，拥有诸如机器人、无人驾驶汽车之类的东西”。另一个区别是，不管是实体还是概念，纽约的科技企业倾向于以既有的东西为基础，或者在这些东西上发挥，无论是实际存在的实体还是一些概念。麦克劳林说，“西岸企业的作风是要摧毁旧有的东西”，而纽约则是“层层递进，在已有的东西上发挥”，麦克劳林这样说道。他引用了雷姆·库哈斯(Rem Koolhaas)1978年关于城市化的开创性宣言：《癫狂的纽约》(Delirious New York)。
Koolhaas argued that New York was a “collective experiment” in a “factory of man-made experience.” The city is the center of culture, creativity, advertising and finance: the question is whether New York tech can somehow help tie it all together. The physical spaces inhabited by the main New York firms reflect the layered approach being built into the city’s infrastructure, rather than exiled in the suburban office parks, and echo the original Bell Labs in the West Village. Tumblr’s offices are in the Flatiron district, housed on two floors in an old building with rough wooden floors. Betaworks occupies a handsome industrial space in the meatpacking district with 22-foot ceilings and cast iron pillars, surrounded by fashion labels like Alexander McQueen and Tory Burch; the building once belonged to the publisher of Collier’s Encyclopedia. Kickstarter’s offices are in a rough Lower East Side loft with reclaimed cabinets and tin ceilings. (The firm is currently refurbishing a new space in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, out of a building that once belonged to the Eberhard Faber Pencil Company.)
库哈斯认为，纽约是一个在一家“人造体验工厂”里进行的“集体实验”。这座城市是文化、创意、广告和金融中心：问题是纽约科技产业是否能够以某种方式将所有这些东西联系起来。纽约主要大型企业办公室所处的物理空间，反映了一种多层次的建筑方式，将企业建设在城市的基础设施当中，而不是另僻一块郊外的办公园区，同时也与西村最初的贝尔实验室(Bell Labs)相呼应。Tumblr的办公室所在的地方，是熨斗区：一幢有粗糙木质地板的旧建筑里的两层楼。Betaworks则在肉库区里占据了一块漂亮的空间，里面有22英尺高的天花板和铸钢铁支柱，周围包围着的是像亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)和汤丽柏琦(Tory Burch)这样的时尚品牌；这座建筑曾经属于科里尔百科全书(Collier’s Encyclopedia)的出版公司。Kickstarter的办公室则是在下东区一个粗糙的loft敞开式公寓里，里面有回收再利用的储藏柜和锡制白铁天花板。（该公司目前正在翻新一个新的办公地点，位于布鲁克林绿点区一座曾经属于伊贝哈德·法贝尔铅笔公司[Eberhard Faber Pencil Company]的建筑。）
Most of New York tech remains in Manhattan, but Karp has moved to Williamsburg, which, to state the obvious, is not a traditional C.E.O. hangout. It turns out that Karp and his girlfriend, Rachel Eakley, tried the West Village for a while but didn’t like their location. He went on a search for “old buildings,” and in Brooklyn he found more of what he loves, unblemished by “too much drywall,” which, according to Karp, has spoiled neighborhoods like TriBeCa. Karp’s loft also enjoys perfect views of the east Manhattan skyline. He looks out at the Niemeyer-Le Corbusier United Nations complex, with its broad tower reflecting water and sky. It was that view that sealed the deal and convinced Karp he could leave the island. He started thinking that looking out on Manhattan would be “so much frickin’ cooler than being in the West Village and seeing the Jersey skyline.” But not all is perfect: his view also includes an eruption of nondescript condos that have infected the Brooklyn bank of the East River. “I get so nauseated when I see these big glassy things,” he says, which look like “something out of Florida.” He denounces the spread of “generic, superbland architecture by people who decided that contemporary architecture is big glassy buildings. The stuff bums me out.”
大多数的纽约科技企业都仍然在曼哈顿，但卡普已经迁移到了威廉斯堡。众所周知，那里并不是CEO们通常聚集的地方。事实上，卡普和他的女友蕾切尔·伊克利(Rachel Eakley)曾经在西村尝试过一段时间，但并不喜欢他们所在的位置。于是他开始搜寻“老建筑”，然后发现他更喜欢布鲁克林。据卡普所说，那里涂了“太多的石膏墙”，糟蹋了像翠贝卡这样的街区。卡普的公寓还有完美的曼哈顿东区天际线景观光景。他望出去，能看见由奥斯卡·内迈耶(Oscar Niemeyer)和勒·柯布西耶(Le Corbusier)设计的联合国大楼群组，宽广的塔楼能反射水景和天空。正是这样的风景最终促成了这个决定，也让卡普相信他可以离开那个小岛。他开始觉得，眺望曼哈顿要“比身在西村遥望当中看见泽西岛要酷太他妈多了”。但也并不是说一切就完美了：他看到的景观也包括忽然冒出来的不伦不类的住宅楼，影响了布鲁克林东河(East River)沿岸的风景。他说，“当我看到这些巨大的玻璃怪物时，我真是觉得恶心，”他说，那看起来就像是“某些从佛罗里达来的东西”。他痛斥指责那一片“平淡平无奇、乏善可陈的建筑”，说它们的“设计师就是觉得当代建筑就是巨大的玻璃大厦”。“那东西把我恶心坏了。”
Once upon a time, to make it in the tech industry was to migrate from east to west, where the engineers and the venture capital could be found. Yet it seems highly unlikely that either Karp or Tumblr will move to the Valley anytime soon, for matters of taste as much as anything. “If there’s any broader issue I have with the Valley,” Karp says, it’s that “you’d have to be out of your mind to live in Palo Alto.”
曾有一段时间，要想在科技业界出人头地，就得意味着从东岸搬到西岸，那里是工程师和风投资本集中的地方。不过，卡普或者Tumblr在短期内搬到硅谷似乎是非常不可能的事情，其中最主要的原因是这当中，品味是其中一个最主要的原因。“如果我对硅谷还有什么更大的意见的话，”卡普说，那就是“你真得是有病才会住在帕洛阿尔托”。