Don’t mock the beleaguered Nook owner. That could have been you.
别嘲笑倒霉的Nook用户了。你也可能碰上这种事。
Five years ago, when the nation’s largest chain of bookstores released an e-reader that it promised would best Amazon’s Kindle, could you blame the poor souls who bought in to Barnes & Noble’s vision of the future? In 2011, Consumer Reports proclaimed the Nook the best e-reader in the land, saying it surpassed the Kindle in just about every way. Well, that sounds pretty definitive, doesn’t it? No wonder your aunt bought you one for Christmas.
五年前，美国最大的连锁书店在发布这款电子阅读器时曾承诺，它将超越亚马逊(Amazon)的Kindle。因此，你能责怪这些相信了巴诺书店(Barnes & Noble)未来设想的可怜人吗？《消费者报告》(Consumer Reports)2011年还称赞Nook是美国最佳的电子阅读器，说它与Kindle相比在任何方面都有过之而无不及。好吧，这听起来相当权威，不是吗？怪不得你的姨妈在圣诞节买了一台送给你。
Things haven’t played out well since. After failing to douse Amazon’s Kindle, Barnes & Noble has spent the last year refashioning its Nook strategy, and with its recent reductions in e-reader staff, the Nook’s end looks nigh. If you own a Nook, the fate of your books may now be up in the air. Sorry, you bet on the wrong horse.
然而此后，情况就有些不妙了。由于未能遏制亚马逊Kindle的势头，过去一年，巴诺书店一直在重新制定有关Nook的战略，而且最近它的电子阅读器部门裁员之后，似乎Nook的末日也已经不远了。如果你有一台Nook，你上面那些书的命运就前途未卜了。对不起，谁让你押错注了呢。
The Nook’s fate isn’t unusual these days. Technologies have always gone belly up, but tech extinctions may become even more common over the next few years. We’re living through an exhilarating and mystifying time in the tech business, when every established brand and business model — from the Windows PC to the whole idea of selling software and hardware for a profit — is suddenly under assault.
Nook的遭遇在当下并非不同寻常。科技产品总是会不断遭淘汰，但在未来几年，科技产品的消亡会更加常见。在科技行业，我们正在经历一个令人兴奋也让人困惑的时代，所有成熟的品牌和商业模式——从Windows电脑到依靠销售软件和硬件而赚钱的想法——突然遭到攻击。
Today, five behemoths — Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft — plus a dizzying array of start-ups are competing to win every dollar and minute you spend in tech. While each of these companies offers differing sets of technologies sold under widely varying business models, they all share a common feature — trying to hook you deeply into an ecosystem of interconnected technologies.
如今，五大巨头——亚马逊、苹果(Apple)、谷歌(Google)、Facebook和微软(Microsoft)——加上一大批令人眼花缭乱的初创企业正在彼此竞争，以赢得你在科技上花费的每一块钱和每一分钟。尽管每家公司的商业模式大相径庭，提供的技术也不同，它们却有一个共同的特点——都努力吸引你进入一个由相互联系的科技产品组成的生态系统里。
The trouble arises when you are sold on a tech ecosystem that doesn’t prosper. It’s likely that at least one, if not several, of today’s tech behemoths won’t be around a decade from now. Thus the pervasive worry of choosing tech in these uncertain days: How do you avoid betting on the wrong horse?
因此，当你对一个不成功的科技生态系统感兴趣时，麻烦就来了。在今天的科技巨头中，很有可能有至少一个，甚至几个在未来10年将不复存在。因此，在这个不确定的时期，人们选择科技产品时的普遍担忧是：如何才能避免押错注？
There is hope. By following a simple strategy, you can get the most out of the digital world while reducing the chance you’ll be burned by a single wrong move. The point is to minimize the danger of getting locked in to any one company’s ecosystem. The strategy also ensures that you can easily move from device to device without much hassle.
这是有可能的。只要遵循一个简单的策略，你就能从数字世界取得最大收获，同时降低因一着不慎而无法自拔的概率。重要的是，不要让自己被任何一家公司的生态系统牢牢困住，把这种风险降到最低。这个策略还确保你可以轻松地在不同设备间转换，而不会遇到太多麻烦。
The key is promiscuity. When you decide what to use, you’ve got to play every tech giant against the other, to make every tech decision as if you were a cad — sample every firm’s best features and never overcommit to any one.
关键在于多样化。当你在决定购买哪款设备时，你一定要货比三家，在每一次决定购买科技产品时把自己当成一个薄情寡义的人——尝试每家公司的最佳特色，不要对任何一家公司过于忠诚。
This sounds difficult. It isn’t. Here’s the game plan:
这听起来很难。其实一点儿也不。以下是具体的行动策略：
BUY APPLE’S HARDWARE Apple’s phones, tablets and PCs are the best-designed and best-made computers on the market. They are also the easiest to learn to use and the most durable. And if you’re kind to them, they’ll carry a far higher resale value than rival devices.
购买苹果的硬件。苹果的手机、平板和个人电脑在市场上拥有最佳的设计和最精良的工艺。这些设备也最容易使用，而且最耐用。如果你善待它们，转手卖出去的价格也要比同类设备高得多。
I say this after having tried just about every competitor to Apple’s machines. Some non-Apple phones and tablets are nearly as nice as the iPhone and iPad (Google’s Nexus line is quite good), but I haven’t found any that beat it, and none that are as pleasurable to use.
我这么说是因为我已经尝试过苹果设备的几乎所有同类产品。一些其他品牌的手机和平板几乎与iPhone和iPad一样好（谷歌的Nexus系列就相当不错），但我还没发现能超过苹果的，也没发现用着这么舒心的设备。
But the best thing about Apple’s hardware is that it maximizes your ability to be promiscuous with software. Apple’s App Store is home to more programs than any other app marketplace. What’s more, the most innovative start-up firms often create apps for Apple’s platform before they bother with Android. Since software is the soul of a machine, the source of all our devices’ advancing powers, you’re best off getting the gadgets that can run the widest range of software. (A note for the sticklers: Yes, Apple restricts the ways you can tinker with the deeper parts of your mobile devices. But if you’re a tinkerer, you don’t need to read a column to decide what to buy.)
但是苹果硬件最棒的一点是，它让你使用不同软件的能力最大化。苹果App Store中的程序比任何应用商店的都多。此外，最具创新能力的初创公司通常会先为苹果的系统开发应用，然后可能再考虑Android平台。由于软件是设备的灵魂，能让我们所有的设备变得越来越强大，你最好选择那些能够运行最多软件的设备。（给固执己见的人提个醒儿：是的，苹果限制了你捣鼓移动设备内部组件的能力。但如果你是一位行家，你也就不需要通过读专栏才能决定买什么设备了。）
USE GOOGLE’S SERVICES. My phone and tablet carry Apple’s logo, but almost everything I do with them is routed through the search company’s servers. There’s Google’s Gmail app for email, Google’s Calendar to manage your day, Google Maps to tell you where to go, Chrome to browse the Web and even the otherwise useless Google Plus social network to back up your photos.
使用谷歌的服务。我的手机和平板电脑都印着苹果的商标，不过我用它们进行的几乎所有操作，都是通过谷歌服务器来进行的。谷歌提供了电子邮件的Gmail应用，提供了能管理你日常活动的谷歌日历(Google Calendar)，提供了能给你导航的谷歌地图(Google Maps)，提供了能浏览网页的Chrome浏览器，甚至还提供了除了谷歌Plus社交网络来备份你的照片，除这以外它没什么用处。
Throwing your data at Google is a good idea for two reasons: First, the company is incredibly good at managing it; it lets you have access to stuff on pretty much any device, anywhere in the world, all the time. Its services almost never go down, its data is extremely accurate (see Maps), and, barring intrusion by the N.S.A., Google offers solid security (like two-factor authentication).
把你的数据交给谷歌是一个不错的想法，原因有二：首先，该公司的数据管理之佳令人难以置信；它能让你随时随地可以从几乎任何设备上获取内容。他的服务几乎从来不会宕机，它的数据极为正确（看看谷歌地图就知道了），而且，谷歌能够阻止国家安全局(NSA)的侵入，提供了可靠的安全保障（比如双重认证系统）。
I also love the handy tricks Google adds as it learns more and more about me (yes, I’m aware I sound like a P.O.W. praising my jailers — but count my blinks, it’s true). For instance, its Google Now feature, available as part of the Google Search app on the iPhone, can automatically predict what you are doing next and show you relevant information like traffic directions and boarding passes just when you need it. It even automatically enhances your photos, making your pretty face even prettier.
我还喜欢谷歌在对我有了更多了解之后，添加的好用小窍门（是的，我意识到，听上去我就像是一名俘虏，在赞美我的监狱看守——不过老实说，这是真的）。例如，谷歌Now功能能自动预测你下一步会做什么，它会在你恰好需要的当口，向你显示交通方向和登机牌等相关信息。它甚至会自动美化你的照片，让你的俏脸变得更美。该功能是谷歌搜索应用的组成部分，能在iPhone上使用。
Wait a second, though — aren’t you committing to Google by giving it all your stuff? Nope, because here’s the best thing: Unlike many of its rivals, Google allows you to download your personal data from most of its services so you can easily move to some other pusher.
不过等等——你这样做难道不是倾尽所有地在效忠谷歌吗？不是的，因为以下就是它最棒的一点：和许多竞争对手不同，谷歌允许你从它的大多数服务项目中下载你的私人数据，这样你就能轻易地转到其他一些受到热推的设备上了。
BUY MEDIA FROM AMAZON. This one is a no-brainer. If you’re looking to buy a movie on your Windows laptop today, shouldn’t you get one that will also work on an Android tablet you buy tomorrow? If you buy a book to read on your iPad, shouldn’t you also make sure it works on the Kindle you’re planning to get for Christmas?
从亚马逊购买媒体产品。这一条你想都不用想。如果你希望购买一部电影，能在你现今装了Windows操作系统的笔记本上播放，难道你不该买这样一部——它也能在你明日购买的、预装了Android系统的平板电脑上播放吗？如果你要买一本能在iPad上阅读的书，难道你不会同时确保，你也能在计划为圣诞节购买的Kindle上读它吗？
Different media providers offer different levels of such interoperability, but books, music and movies from Amazon are the most widely viewable. You can watch and read Amazon’s media on Apple devices, Google devices, Amazon’s own Kindle line and lots of other places, like cheap streaming devices for your TV. In contrast, a book from Apple’s iBookstore is probably never going to work on an Android phone, because Apple really doesn’t want you to buy an Android phone. So why bother with iBooks?
不同媒体供应商提供的产品的兼容程度不同，不过，亚马逊提供的书籍、音乐和电影的可兼容度是最大的。你可以在苹果的设备上、谷歌的设备上、亚马逊自己的Kindle系列产品以及一系列不同设备上观看和阅读亚马逊的媒体产品，这还包括了电视机上使用的廉价流媒体设备。与此相反，装有Android系统的手机也许永远也无法阅读在苹果iBookstore上购买的一本书，因为苹果实在不想让你购买Android手机。所以，为什么要把心思浪费在iBooks上呢？
BET ON CONNECTORS. In our multidevice world, Amazon’s media store functions as what I like to call a “connector” — it bridges the chasm between otherwise foreign technologies.
押注“连接器”。我喜欢把那些能够弥合不同技术之间鸿沟的产品称为“连接器”，而在我们身处的多设备世界里，亚马逊的媒体商店就在发挥这种功能。
This gets to the most important principle for dealing with an uncertain future: Invest your time and money in connectors. For instance, store all your important documents on the cloud-storage service Dropbox, because its business model depends on it working everywhere. And it does: The documents you create on any single machine are replicated on all your other machines, instantly. Similarly, when someone hands you a business card, you can snap a photo of it on the note-taking app Evernote, which also functions as a connector, letting you get at your scribbles regardless of which machine you move to next. And in a cloudy future, who knows what that could be?
这就要说到应对不确定未来最重要的原则了，那就是把你的时间和金钱投资在连接器上。举例来说，把重要的文件存储在云存储服务商Dropbox那里，因为它的商业模式依靠的是它能随地运行的能力。它的确能做到，你在任意设备上创建的文件，都会在你其他的所有设备上立即得到复制。与此类似，当某人递给你一张名片时，你可以用笔记应用印象笔记(Evernote)给它拍一张照，印象笔记的功能也是连接器，不管你接下来使用哪个设备，它都能让你找回自己潦草的笔记。在云服务的未来，谁知道你的下一个设备会是什么样的？