The biggest threat to Chinese banks’ cozy oligopoly may be in the hands of the nation’s consumers. Two online companies, Alibaba and Tencent, are making incursions into the country’s financial services market, providing an alternative to the capped deposit rates and sluggish service offered by the country’s big lenders. The disrupters are taking on risks, and savers should be glad.
对于中国银行业安逸的寡头市场垄断来说，最大的威胁可能掌控在该国的消费者手中。两家网络公司——阿里巴巴和腾讯正在打进该国的金融服务市场，针对该国的存款利率上限及大型银行懈怠服务提供了另一种选择。这些破坏者承担着一些风险，储蓄者则应该感到高兴。
Alibaba, the e-commerce group that just bought a 51 percent stake in the asset management company Tianhong for $193 million, is the banks’ main foe. By July, it had made over $16 billion in short-term loans to companies that sell goods on its sites. Its real-time records of borrowers’ cash flows and counterparties aid in lending decisions.
阿里巴巴是银行业的主要敌人。该电子商务公司刚刚以1.93亿美元（约合11.8亿元人民币）的价格收购了资产管理公司——天弘基金51%的股权。截至7月，该公司已经向在其网站出售商品的公司提供了逾160亿美元的短期贷款。关于借款人现金流量及交易对方的实时记录有助于做出贷款决定。
Banks’ deposits are also under threat. WeChat, the mobile chat app that had more than 300 million users within two years of being started by Tencent, is working on distributing wealth products via smartphones, and offering payment for fund managers, according to Chinese media. Alibaba lets users reinvest surplus balances in their online payment accounts into money market funds. That gives savers a better return than the 3 percent capped rate they get on bank deposits.
银行的存款业务也遭受威胁。在腾讯推出手机聊天应用程序微信(WeChat)的两年时间里，其用户已经超过3亿。据中国媒体报道，微信正致力于通过智能手机分配财富，为基金经理提供支付服务。阿里巴巴允许用户将网上支付账户中的余额进行重新投资，购买货币市场基金。与银行存款3%的利率上限相比，这种方式能为储户带来更多收益。
Tech companies’ desire to disrupt the financial services sector is understandable. China’s big banks make returns on equity in excess of 20 percent. Regulators are basically supportive, unlike their counterparts in the West. The big four banks may have 66,000 branches, but younger consumers prefer the convenience of ubiquitous smartphones and always-on networks.
科技公司进入金融服务领域的愿望是可以理解的。中国的大型银行的资产收益率超过了20%。与西方的监管部门不同，中国的监管机构对此基本上持支持态度。尽管中国的四大银行有6.6万个分支机构，但年轻消费者仍然更喜欢无所不在的智能手机和时刻连线的网络所带来的便利。
For the likes of Alibaba and Tencent, more digital channels for lending and saving could sow further confusion. China lacks clarity over who is liable if a product or lender fails. Consumers don’t always appreciate the difference between a deposit and an investment, even if it’s there in the small print.
对于阿里巴巴和腾讯之类的公司而言，更多借贷和储蓄的数字渠道可能催生更多困惑。如果商品达不到要求或者借款人无法兑现承诺，中国并没有关于责任归属的清晰规定。而消费者往往不懂得存款和投资之间的区别，即便相关说明列在了一些不起眼的地方。
That creates the risk that a tech company could find itself obliged to make good any losses on a product it distributed. The other danger is that the banks, whose bosses are basically politicians, may use their powerful contacts to crush the new competition. But the genie is out of the bottle: consumers now have a choice about where they put their funds. Even if Alibaba and Tencent’s financial plans fail, the industry will have to raise its game.
这样的情况带来了风险，即科技公司可能会发现，自己必须赔偿发生在其配送商品上的任何损失。另一个危险则是，基本上由政客掌控的各家银行可能会利用其强大的关系网络打压新的竞争。不过，新的局面已经出现，消费者现在可以选择资金的投放之处。即便阿里巴巴和腾讯的金融计划没能成功，金融服务行业仍需采取行动来应对新的形势。