MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — Just down the road from Google’s main campus here, engineers for the company are accelerating what has become the newest arms race in modern technology: They are making it far more difficult — and far more expensive — for the National Security Agency and the intelligence arms of other governments around the world to pierce their systems.
加州山景城——在距离这里的谷歌总部不远的地方，该公司的工程师们正在加速进行现代科技领域最新的一场“军备竞赛”：让美国国家安全局(NSA)及外国政府的情报机构渗透该公司系统的做法变得远比从前困难和昂贵。
As fast as it can, Google is sealing up cracks in its systems that Edward J. Snowden revealed the N.S.A. had brilliantly exploited. It is encrypting more data as it moves among its servers and helping customers encode their own emails. Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo are taking similar steps.
谷歌正在尽可能快速地修补其系统中的漏洞，爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)就曾曝光NSA如何巧妙利用这些漏洞的信息。谷歌正在加密更多的、在其服务器之间传输的数据，并帮助客户加密自己的电子邮件。Facebook、微软和雅虎也正在采取类似的措施。
After years of cooperating with the government, the immediate goal now is to thwart Washington — as well as Moscow. The strategy is also intended to preserve business overseas in places like Brazil and Germany that have threatened to entrust data only to local providers.
在与政府合作多年之后，这些公司现在最紧要的目标是挫败华盛顿——以及莫斯科的努力。它们还打算用该策略来保住自己在巴西、德国等国的海外业务，这些国家已经发出威胁，称只会把数据委托给当地的供应商。
Google, for example, is laying its own fiber optic cable under the world’s oceans, a project that began as an effort to cut costs and extend its influence, but now has an added purpose: to assure that the company will have more control over the movement of its customer data.
例如，谷歌正在世界各大洋铺设自己的光纤电缆，这个项目的初衷是削减成本，扩大其影响力，但是现在它又多了一重意图：确保该公司在客户数据传输方面拥有更大的控制权。
A year after Mr. Snowden’s revelations, the era of quiet cooperation is over. Telecommunications companies say they are denying requests to volunteer data not covered by existing law. A.T.&T., Verizon and others say that compared with a year ago, they are far more reluctant to cooperate with the United States government in “gray areas” where there is no explicit requirement for a legal warrant.
斯诺登泄密事件发生一年之后，默默与政府合作的时代已告结束。电信公司说，它们会拒绝现行法律没有硬性规定它们提交的、政府却要求它们自愿提交的资料。AT&T、威瑞森(Verizon)等公司说，在没有明确要求有法庭搜查令的“灰色地带”，它们没有一年前那么愿意与美国政府合作了。
But governments are fighting back, harder than ever. The cellphone giant Vodafone reported on Friday that a “small number” of governments around the world have demanded the ability to tap directly into its communication networks, a level of surveillance that elicited outrage from privacy advocates.
但是各国政府也正在予以回击，猛烈程度超过了以往任何时候。手机巨头沃达丰(Vodafone)上周五表示，世界上有“少数”政府，要求直接接入到其通信网络中，这种程度的监听方式引起了隐私保护者的愤慨。
Vodafone refused to name the nations on Friday for fear of putting its business and employees at risk there. But in an accounting of the number of legal demands for information that it receives from 14 companies, it noted that some countries did not issue warrants to obtain phone, email or web-searching traffic, because “the relevant agencies and authorities already have permanent access to customer communications via their own direct link.”
沃达丰上周五拒绝指出是哪些国家，因为担心它在这些国家的业务和员工会因此陷入险境。但在谈到政府机构有多少次用法律手段要求它提交从14家公司获得的信息时，沃达丰指出，一些国家没有发布搜查令来获取电话、电子邮件或网络搜索记录，因为“有关机构和部门已经拥有了自己的直线链路，可以永久性地获得客户通讯信息”。
The company also said it had to acquiesce to some governments’ requests for data to comply with national laws. Otherwise, it said, it faced losing its license to operate in certain countries.
该公司还表示，它不得不提供某些政府要求的数据，因为这些国家的法律就是这么规定的。否则，它说，它就可能失去在某些国家经营业务的牌照。
Eric Grosse, Google’s security chief, suggested in an interview that the N.S.A.'s own behavior invited the new arms race.
谷歌的首席安全官埃里克·格罗斯(Eric Grosse)在接受采访时表示，NSA自己的做法引发了这轮新的军备竞赛。
“I am willing to help on the purely defensive side of things,” he said, referring to Washington’s efforts to enlist Silicon Valley in cybersecurity efforts. “But signals intercept is totally off the table,” he said, referring to national intelligence gathering.
“我愿意帮助国家开展纯粹防御性的活动，”他说，这是指华盛顿争取硅谷的帮助，让网络变得更安全的工作。“但是，信号拦截活动则完全不在讨论范围内，”他说，指的是政府搜集情报的工作。
“No hard feelings, but my job is to make their job hard,” he added.
“不要觉得不舒服，但我的工作就是让他们的工作开展得不顺畅，”他补充说。
In Washington, officials acknowledge that covert programs are now far harder to execute because American technology companies, fearful of losing international business, are hardening their networks and saying no to requests for the kind of help they once quietly provided.
华盛顿的美国官员承认，情报活动现在开展起来比以前困难多了，因为美国科技公司害怕失去国际业务，从而加强了对自身网络的保护，并且拒绝提供以前曾经默默提供过的那些帮助。
Robert S. Litt, the general counsel of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, which oversees all 17 American spy agencies, said on Wednesday that it was “an unquestionable loss for our nation that companies are losing the willingness to cooperate legally and voluntarily” with American spy agencies.
国家情报主任办公室(Office of the Director of National Intelligence)的总法律顾问罗伯特·S·利特(Robert S. Litt)，上周三表示，“企业正在变得不愿意与美国间谍机构开展合法和自愿的合作，对我们国家来说，这是一个毋庸置疑的损失”。国家情报主任办公室负责管辖美国全部17个间谍机构。
“Just as there are technological gaps, there are legal gaps,” he said, speaking at the Wilson Center in Washington, “that leave a lot of gray area” governing what companies could turn over.
“这不仅涉及技术上的差距，也和法律上的空白有关，”他在华盛顿的威尔逊中心(Wilson Center)说，对于公司可以提交哪些数据，“这留下了很多灰色地带。”
Worried that such an episode undercuts confidence in its wares, Microsoft is now fully encrypting all its products, including Hotmail and Outlook.com, by the end of this year with 2,048-bit encryption, a stronger protection that would take a government far longer to crack. The software is protected by encryption both when it is in data centers and when data is being sent over the Internet, said Bradford L. Smith, the company’s general counsel.
由于担心此类事件会削弱客户对公司产品的信心，目前，微软正在用2048位的加密技术，在今年年底前全面加密旗下所有产品，其中包括了Hotmail和Outlook.com。该技术能为产品提供更强大的保护，政府需要花远比从前更长的时间才能破解。该公司的法律总顾问布拉德福德·L·史密斯(Bradford L. Smith)说，不管软件是在数据中心里，还是正在通过网络进行传输，它都会受到这种加密保护。
Mr. Smith also said the company was setting up “transparency centers” abroad so that technical experts of foreign governments could come in and inspect Microsoft’s proprietary source code. That will allow foreign governments to check to make sure there are no “back doors” that would permit snooping by United States intelligence agencies. The first such center is being set up in Brussels.
史密斯还说，公司正在海外建设“透明中心”，以便于让外国政府的技术专家到该中心检验微软的专有源代码。如此一来，外国政府就能通过核查，确保微软产品不会留有能让美国情报机构四下窥探的“后门”。首座这样的中心坐落于布鲁塞尔，目前正在建设过程中。
Microsoft has also pushed back harder in court. In a Seattle case, the government issued a “national security letter” to compel Microsoft to turn over data about a customer, along with a gag order to prevent Microsoft from telling the customer it had been compelled to provide its communications to government officials. Microsoft challenged the gag order as violating the First Amendment. The government backed down.
微软在法庭上的反抗力度也加大了。在西雅图的一桩案件中，政府下发了一封“国家安全信件”，逼迫微软移交一名顾客的信息，同时还下达了一条封口令，禁止微软告知顾客它被迫把通讯记录交给政府官员。微软质疑说，封口令违反了宪法《第一修正案》(First Amendment)。政府最终做出了让步。
Hardware firms like Cisco, which makes routers and switches, have found their products a frequent subject of Mr. Snowden’s disclosures, and their business has declined steadily in places like Asia, Brazil and Europe over the last year. The company is still struggling to convince foreign customers that their networks are safe from hackers — and free of “back doors” installed by the N.S.A. The frustration, companies here say, is that it is nearly impossible to prove that their systems are N.S.A.-proof.
像思科(Cisco)这样制造路由器和开关的硬件公司，已察觉自己的产品成了斯诺登频频披露的对象，过去一年，该公司在亚洲、巴西和欧洲等地的业务在持续下滑。思科仍在竭力向外国客户保证，他们的网络在黑客袭击下是安全的——也没有被NSA安装“后门”。硅谷的公司表示，让他们沮丧的是，他们几乎不可能证明，他们的系统能防备NSA的窥探。
Most American companies said they never knowingly let the N.S.A. weaken their systems, or install back doors. But Mr. Snowden’s documents showed how the agency found a way.
大多数美国公司表示，他们不会故意让NSA弱化公司系统，或者安装后门。不过，斯诺登的文件显示了，该机构是如何找到途径这么做的。
In one slide from the disclosures, N.S.A. analysts pointed to a sweet spot inside Google’s data centers, where they could catch traffic in unencrypted form. Next to a quickly drawn smiley face, an N.S.A. analyst, referring to an acronym for a common layer of protection, had noted, “SSL added and removed here!”
在斯诺登披露的一张幻灯片中，NSA的分析员提到了谷歌数据中心内的一个最佳突破点，他们能从那里截获未加密的数据流。一名NSA分析员指着一个快速画出来的笑脸旁的位置说，“SSL就是在这里被添加和删除的。”SSL是一种普通加密层的首字母缩写词。
Google was already suspicious that its internal traffic could be read, and had started a program to encrypt the links among its internal data centers, “the last chink in our armor,” Mr. Grosse said. But the slide gave the company proof that it was a regular target of the N.S.A. “It was useful to have proof, in terms of accelerating a project already underway,” he said.
谷歌本已怀疑，其内部数据流可能受到窥探，并启动了一项计划，加密内部数据中心之间的链路，“这是我们盔甲上最后一个薄弱点，”格罗斯说。不过那幅幻灯片为证实谷歌是NSA经常窥探的目标提供了证据。他说，“掌握证据，对于加快在建项目的运作速度，是有好处的。”
Facebook and Yahoo have also been encrypting traffic among their internal servers. And Facebook, Google and Microsoft have been moving to more strongly encrypt consumer traffic with so-called Perfect Forward Secrecy, specifically devised to make it more labor intensive for the N.S.A. or anyone to read stored encrypted communications.
Facebook和Yahoo也在加密其内部服务器上的往来数据。Facebook、谷歌和微软一直在采取所谓的“完全向前保密”(Perfect Forward Secrecy)技术来强化对客户数据的加密，这是一种特殊设计的技术，NSA或任何人想要查阅公司存储的加密通讯记录，都要耗费更多的人力。
One of the biggest indirect consequences from the Snowden revelations, technology executives say, has been the surge in demands from foreign governments that saw what kind of access to user information the N.S.A. received — voluntarily or surreptitiously. Now they want the same.
技术高管们说，斯诺登泄密事件导致的最严重的间接后果之一，就是外国政府见识了NSA能获得哪类客户信息之后提出了远比从前更多的要求，也不管这些信息是被自愿奉上的，还是被NSA偷偷弄到手的。现在，他们提出了同样的要求。
The latest move in the war between intelligence agencies and technology companies arrived this week, in the form of a new Google encryption tool. The company released a user-friendly, email encryption method to replace the clunky and often mistake-prone encryption schemes the N.S.A. has readily exploited.
本周，情报机构和科技公司的这场战争露出了最新动向，它是以谷歌发布的新款加密工具的形式出现的。该公司发布了一款用户界面友好的电子邮件加密方法，以取代轻易就能被NSA破解的加密方案，老方案并不好用，而且常常容易出错。
But the best part of the tool was buried in Google’s code, which included a jab at the N.S.A.'s smiley-face slide. The code included the phrase: “ssl-added-and-removed-here-; - )”
不过，这款工具的最佳部分隐藏在谷歌的代码中，代码里带有对NSA笑脸幻灯片的嘲讽。它包含了一句短语：“从这里添加和删除ssl-; - )。”