SAN FRANCISCO — Intel made its fortune on the chips that power personal computers, and Microsoft on the software that goes inside. Google’s secret sauce is that it finds what you are looking for on the Internet. But the ground is shifting beneath these tech titans because of a major force: the rise of mobile devices.
旧金山——英特尔(Intel)靠制造个人电脑芯片而发家致富，微软(Microsoft)依赖的是电脑所使用的软件。谷歌(Google)的秘密武器是帮你在互联网上找到你想要的东西。然而，一股强大力量正在改变这些科技巨头的产业格局：移动设备的兴起。
These and other tech companies are scrambling to reinvent their business models now that the old model — a stationary customer sitting at a stationary desk — no longer applies. These companies once disrupted traditional businesses, from selling books and music to booking hotels. Now they are being upended by the widespread adoption of smartphones and tablets.
这些公司和其他科技公司目前都在争先恐后地创新商业模式，因为那种固定客户坐在静止的办公桌前的旧模式已经不再适用了。这些公司曾经颠覆了传统的经营模式，从书刊音乐的销售到酒店预订业务。而当前智能手机和平板电脑的广泛流行，又给它们带来了颠覆性的冲击。
“Companies are having to retool their thinking, saying, ‘What is it that our customers are doing through the mobile channel that is quite distinct from what we are delivering them through our traditional Web channel?’ ” said Charles S. Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research, the technology research firm.
科技研究机构弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的分析师查尔斯·S·戈尔万(Charles S. Golvin)说，“这些公司必须更新自己的思路，例如‘客户使用移动终端干什么？和我们通过传统网络渠道提供给他们的服务有何显著不同？’”
He added, “It’s hilarious to talk about traditional Web business like it’s been going on for centuries, but it’s last century.”
他还说，“我们说到传统的网络商业模式，好像它有几百年了一样，那是很可笑的。那不过是上个世纪的事。”
The industry giants remain highly profitable drivers of the economy. Yet the world’s shift to computing on mobile devices is taking a toll, including disappointing earnings reports last week from Google, Microsoft and Intel, in large measure related to revenue from mobile devices. Investors are in suspense over Facebook’s earnings to be disclosed Tuesday, for much the same reason.
这些行业巨头仍然是高盈利的经济增长推动者。然而，全球产业格局向移动技术的转变，已经给这些企业造成了影响。谷歌、微软和英特尔上周令人失望的收益报告，从很大程度上来说，都与移动设备的收益有关。投资者在驻足观望，等待Facebook将于周二发布的收益报告，这基本也出于同样的原因。
Demand for Intel chips inside computers — which are much more profitable than those inside smartphones — is plummeting. At Microsoft, sales of software for PCs are sharply declining as people spend money on phones and tablets instead. At Google, the price that advertisers pay when people click on ads has fallen for a year. This is partly because, while ads on mobile devices are exploding, they cost less than Internet ads because advertisers are still figuring out how to make them most effective.
英特尔电脑芯片的需求量（这些芯片的利润要比智能手机芯片高很多）正在直线下跌。微软的电脑软件销售量也出现了大幅度下滑，因为人们把钱花在了手机和平板电脑上。在谷歌，广告商在客户点击广告时支付的广告费已经连续一年减少。部分是因为，虽然移动设备上的广告数量正在大量增加，但这些广告比在互联网上做广告的花费要低，因为广告商仍然在研究怎样才能使移动设备上的广告更有效。
Since its initial public offering, Facebook has lost half its value on Wall Street under pressure to make more money from mobile devices, now that six of 10 Facebook users log in on their phones.
面临通过移动终端赢利的压力，Facebook自首次公开发售以来， 已经在华尔街损失了一半的市值。现在，10个Facebook用户中就有六个都是通过手机登录的。
Making money in this new game will depend on how deftly tech companies can track their users from their desktop computers to the phones in their palms and ultimately to the stores, cinemas and pizzerias where they spend their money. It will also depend on how consumers — and government regulators — will react to having every move monitored.
能否在这种新的商业模式中赢利，取决于科技公司能否在客户从台式电脑到手机，最后到商店、影院和披萨饼店的全过程中始终巧妙追踪。这还取决于，客户及政府管理部门会对客户的每项举动都受到监控的做法做出何种反应。
Facebook is already experimenting with ways to use what it knows about its users to show ads when they are using other mobile apps. Google can link what a logged-in user does on the computer and phone, to show someone a cellphone ad based on what they have searched for on a computer at home, for instance. But just last week, European regulators warned Google to amend its privacy policy that allows the company to gather information about people across Google products.
Facebook已经开始试验，怎样才能利用它所掌握的客户信息，在顾客使用其他移动应用时展示相应的广告内容。谷歌可以将登录的用户在电脑和手机上进行的活动联系起来，例如，它可以通过客户在家中的电脑上所查找的内容，在他们的手机上展示相应的广告。然而，就在上周，欧洲的监管部门对谷歌发出了警告，要求谷歌修改允许公司收集谷歌的跨产品用户信息的隐私政策。
And some consumers find ads that combine online searches with physical information gleaned from mobile devices “positively spooky,” said Benjamin G. Edelman, a professor at Harvard Business School.
哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)教授本杰明·G·埃德尔曼(Benjamin G. Edelman)说，有些客户认为，那些将网络搜索和从移动设备上获取的实体信息联系在一起的广告让人感到“十分不安”。
Still, mobile provides huge opportunities for these businesses, industry analysts say. That is largely because people reveal much more about themselves on their phones than they do on computers, from where they go and when they sleep to whom they talk to and what they want to buy.
尽管如此，行业分析人士表示，移动设备仍为这些企业提供了巨大的机遇。这很大程度上是因为，人们通过手机所透露的个人信息要远远超过电脑，从他们去过哪里到何时休息，再到与谁谈话，甚至包括想购买什么东西。
Consumers may be put off by the intrusion of marketers into their daily lives, but companies say the trade-off can be worth it — an unprompted calendar alert, say, that tells you whether you’ll be late for a meeting or a coupon when you are near a shop.
消费者可能会因为广告商侵犯了自己的日常生活而不满，但公司称，作出这点让步会是很值得的。比如，自动弹出的日历提醒，提示你开会的时间，或者当你在某家商店附近时，提醒你及时使用该店的优惠券。
“We’re really starting to live in a new reality, one where the ubiquity of screens really helps users move from intent to action much faster and more seamlessly,” Larry Page, Google’s chief executive, told analysts last week. “It will create new opportunity in advertising.”
“我们所生活的这个现实世界真的已经改变了，在这个世界里，无处不在的屏幕能够帮助用户更快、更流畅地把某种意图转变为实际行动，”谷歌首席执行官拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)上周告诉分析人士，“这将为广告创造新的机遇。”
Companies are addressing the challenges in different ways. Despite the disappointment in its recent earnings report, Google says it is on track to earn $8 billion from mobile ads, apps and media in the coming year, and has activated half a billion devices running its mobile operating system, Android. Google earns the majority of mobile ad dollars.
各家公司正在以不同的方式应对这些挑战。虽然近期的收益报告令人失望，但谷歌表示，它明年将从移动设备广告、应用程序以及媒体获得80亿美元的收入。而且，它已经激活了5亿台使用谷歌Android操作系统的移动设备，移动广告收益的大部分都归谷歌。
It is offering location-based ads, like a T-Mobile campaign that sent users ads when they were near stores. Some mobile ads already make more money than desktop ads, said Google’s chief financial officer, Patrick Pichette.
谷歌的首席财务官帕特里克·皮切特(Patrick Pichette)说，谷歌能够以用户所在地为基础提供广告服务，比如T-Mobile的一项广告就能够在当客户在商店周围时向他们推送广告。一些移动广告已经获得了比台式机广告更多的收益。
But one of Google’s biggest challenges is tracking whether people make a purchase after they see a mobile ad. Unlike online, where Google knows if someone buys a camera after searching for it, the company does not know if someone searches for a Thai restaurant nearby and then eats there. That is why it is trying to follow people into the physical world, with services like Wallet for payments and Offers for coupons. 
然而，谷歌所面临的最大挑战，是观察用户在看了移动广告后，是否真的发生了购买行为。通过传统网络，谷歌能知道客户在搜索相机信息后是否购买了这个相机。与之不同，谷歌无法获知客户在搜索了附近的泰国餐厅后，是否真的去那里就餐。这正是为什么谷歌试图跟踪用户一直到现实世界中，方法是诸如“付款钱包”(Wallet)和“优惠券”(Offers)这样的应用。
Intel is playing catch-up by making chips not just for computers, but for more than two dozen smartphones and tablets coming onto the market. The shift to mobile has also created a new market for Intel: Its chips are in the huge data servers that power the cloud, where much mobile data is stored.
英特尔正在努力追赶，它目前不仅在为电脑，而且还在为数十种即将面市的智能手机和平板电脑制作芯片。向移动设备的转移为英特尔创造了新的市场：驱动云储存的超大数据服务器都用到了它的芯片，大量的移动数据都储存在云端。
“As the market for smartphones and tablets evolved, the company historically didn’t have a presence,” said Jon Carvill, an Intel spokesman. “This year, that’s started to change.”
“智能手机和平板电脑市场逐渐形成，而本公司从来未曾涉足这些领域，”英特尔发言人乔恩·卡维尔(Jon Carvill)说，“今年，情况发生了变化。”
For other tech companies, mobile has been a boon from early on. Apple became the most valuable company in the United States selling the iPhone and iPad. Recently, Apple built its own mobile maps to replace Google’s maps on the iPhone in part because it wanted to keep valuable information about users’ location searches to itself and away from its competitor.
对于其他科技公司而言，从一开始，移动设备就是一个福音。出售iPhone和iPad的苹果公司(Apple)成了美国最有价值的公司。近期，苹果还推出了自己的移动地图以取代iPhone上的谷歌地图。这样做部分是因为，它希望能够独享用户地点搜索的有用信息，同时避免让竞争对手获取这些信息。
And mobile phone owners have found some services — like Zillow for real estate, Yelp for local businesses and OpenTable for restaurant reservations — better on phones than on computers, and revenue has followed.
此外，手机用户们发现，包括房地产信息查询网站Zillow、本地商务信息网站Yelp和餐厅预订网站OpenTable在内的一些服务，在手机上要比在电脑上更好用。商家还因此获得了很多收益。