Eight prominent technology companies, bruised by revelations of government spying on their customers’ data and scrambling to repair the damage to their reputations, are mounting a public campaign to urge President Obama and Congress to set new limits on government surveillance.
八家著名技术公司受到揭露政府监控其用户数据事件的打击后，为寻找方法修复自己受损的名誉，正在发动一场公开活动，他们呼吁奥巴马总统及美国国会给政府监听监视项目设置新的限制。
On Monday the companies, led by Google and Microsoft, presented a plan to regulate online spying and urged the United States to lead a worldwide effort to restrict it. They accompanied it with an open letter, in the form of full-page ads in national newspapers, including The New York Times, and a website detailing their concerns.
周一，这些公司在谷歌(Google)和微软(Microsoft)的带领下，提出了一个规范网络间谍行为的计划，呼吁美国政府领导一个限制网络间谍活动的全球努力。伴随这一计划，这些公司以在全国性报纸（包括《纽约时报》）上刊登整版广告的形式，发表了一封公开信，他们还创建了一个详细表述其担忧的网站。
It is the broadest and strongest effort by the companies, often archrivals, to speak with one voice to pressure the government. The tech industry, whose billionaire founders and executives are highly sought as political donors, forms a powerful interest group that is increasingly flexing its muscle in Washington.
这是这些公司用一致的声音向政府施加压力的一次最广泛、最强有力的努力，这些公司通常是激烈的竞争对手。高技术企业的富豪创业者和执行官们作为政治募捐人而备受追捧，他们形成了一个强大的利益集团，在华盛顿愈发展现出其影响力。
“It’s now in their business and economic interest to protect their users’ privacy and to aggressively push for changes,” said Trevor Timm, an activist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. “The N.S.A. mass-surveillance programs exist for a simple reason: cooperation with the tech and telecom companies. If the tech companies no longer want to cooperate, they have a lot of leverage to force significant reform.”
电子前沿基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)的积极分子特雷弗·蒂姆(Trevor Timm)说，“现在他们出于自己的商业和经济利益要求保护自己用户的隐私、极力推动改革。国家安全局(NSA)的大范围监听监视项目之所以能存在，原因很简单，因为有来自技术和电信公司的合作。如果技术公司不再想合作，他们在迫使出台重大改革上有很大的杠杆作用。”
The political push by the technology companies opens a third front in their battle against government surveillance, which has escalated with recent revelations about government spying without the companies’ knowledge. The companies have also been making technical changes to try to thwart spying and have been waging a public-relations campaign to convince users that they are protecting their privacy.
技术公司施加的政治压力，为他们针对政府的监听监视而展开的斗争开创了第三条战线，最近曝光的这些公司不知情的政府间谍行为使这种斗争升级。这些公司也一直在做一些技术改进以图挫败间谍活动，他们还展开公关活动来说服用户，公司在保护他们的隐私。
“People won’t use technology they don’t trust,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s general counsel, said in a statement. “Governments have put this trust at risk, and governments need to help restore it.”
微软的总法律顾问布拉德·史密斯(Brad Smith)在一份声明中说，“人们不会使用他们不信任的技术。政府让这种信任受到威胁，政府应该帮助重建人们的信任。”
Apple, Yahoo, Facebook, Twitter, AOL and LinkedIn joined Google and Microsoft in saying that they believed in governments’ right to protect their citizens. But, they said, the spying revelations that began last summer with leaks of National Security Agency materials by Edward J. Snowden showed that “the balance in many countries has tipped too far in favor of the state and away from the rights of the individual.”
苹果(Apple)、雅虎(Yahoo)、Facebook、Twitter、AOL和LinkedIn联合谷歌与微软一致表示，他们相信政府有保护公民的权利。但是，他们说，今年夏天爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的国家安全局材料引出的间谍活动曝光问题显示，“许多国家中已经失去一种平衡，导致更偏重国家的权利，而不是个人的权益。”
The Obama administration has already begun a review of N.S.A. procedures in reaction to public outrage. The results of that review could be presented to the White House as soon as this week.
作为对公众愤怒的反应，奥巴马政府已经开始对NSA的程序进行审查。审查结果最早可能在本周提交给白宫。
“Having done an independent review and brought in a whole bunch of folks — civil libertarians and lawyers and others — to examine what’s being done, I’ll be proposing some self-restraint on the N.S.A., and you know, to initiate some reforms that can give people more confidence,” Mr. Obama said Thursday on the MSNBC program “Hardball.”
奥巴马周四在MSNBC《刨根问底》(Hardball)节目中说，“通过展开一次独立审查，让多方面的人——包括公民自由主义者、律师和其他人，参与调查所做的一切，我将提出一些让NSA自我约束的方法，启动一些能增强人们信心的改革。”
The new principles outlined by the companies contain little information and few promises about their own practices, which privacy advocates say contribute to the government’s desire to tap into the companies’ data systems.
这些公司提出的新原则对他们自己的商业做法几乎一字不提，也几乎不对他们的做法作出任何承诺。一些隐私倡导人士说，这是因为政府渴望能挖掘这些公司的数据系统。
“The companies are placing their users at risk by collecting and retaining so much information,” said Marc Rotenberg, president and executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a nonprofit research and advocacy organization. “As long as this much personal data is collected and kept by these companies, they are always going to be the target of government collection efforts.”
非营利性研究和倡导组织“电子隐私信息中心”(Electronic PrivacyInformation Center)的负责人马克·卢腾伯格(Marc Rotenberg)说，“通过收集并保存了那么多的信息，这些公司给用户带来风险。只要这些公司收集并保留如此之多的个人信息，他们就总将是政府采集信息的目标。”
Internet companies are trying to blunt the spying revelations’ effects on their businesses. Each disclosure risks alienating users, and foreign governments are considering laws that would discourage their citizens from using services from American Internet companies. The cloud computing industry could lose $180 billion, or a quarter of its revenue, by 2016, according to Forrester Research.
互联网公司正试图削弱间谍行为的曝光给公司带来的影响。每一件被揭发出来的事情都会带来让用户疏远的风险，而且外国政府也正在考虑出台法规，不鼓励本国公民使用美国互联网公司提供的服务。根据弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)的估计，云计算行业到2016年有可能失去1800亿美元（约合1.1万亿元人民币）的收入，相当于其总收入的四分之一。
Telecom companies, which were not included in the proposal to Congress, have had a closer working relationship with the government than the Internet companies, such as longstanding partnerships to hand over customer information. While the Internet companies have published so-called transparency reports about government requests, for example, the telecoms have not.
电信公司不在向国会提交建议的行列，他们与互联网公司相比，一直与政府有着更密切的关系，比如，他们长期与政府合作，把用户信息交给政府。再如，互联网公司就政府的信息要求发布所谓的透明报告，而电信公司不这么做。
“For the phone companies,” said Tim Wu, a professor at Columbia studying the Internet and the law, “help with federal spying is a longstanding tradition with roots in the Cold War. It’s another area where there’s a split between old tech and new tech — the latter taking a much more libertarian position.”
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)研究互联网与法律的教授吴修铭(Tim Wu)说，“对电话公司而言，为联邦间谍活动提供帮助具有悠久的传统，源于冷战时代。现在是一个新技术与老技术之间出现分裂的时代，而新技术比老技术采取了更加自由化的立场。”
The new surveillance principles, the Internet companies said, should include limiting governments’ authority to collect users’ information, setting up a legal system of oversight and accountability for that authority, allowing the companies to publish the number and nature of the demands for data, ensuring that users’ online data can be stored in different countries and establishing a framework to govern data requests between countries.
这些互联网公司称，新的监听监视原则应该包括限制政府采集用户信息的权力；为了限制这种权力，需要设立一个监管和问责的法律系统；而且应该允许这些公司公布政府要求获得信息的数量及性质，确保用户的网上信息可以被存储在不同的国家，并设立一个管理跨国数据索取的框架。
The global principles outlined by the companies make no specific mention of any country. But the open letter to American officials specifically cites the United States Constitution as the guidepost for new restrictions on government surveillance.
这些公司提出的全球原则中没有具体提任何国家。但是在给美国官员的公开信中，特别引用了美国宪法作为对政府监听监视的新限制的指导原则。
Chief among the companies’ proposals is a demand to write “sensible limitations” on the ability of government agencies to compel Internet companies to disclose user data, forbidding the wholesale vacuuming of user information.
这些公司建议中最主要的一条是，要求对政府机构强迫互联网公司提交用户信息的能力设置“合理的限制”，禁止连锅端式地获取用户信息。
“Governments should limit surveillance to specific known users for lawful purposes, and should not undertake bulk data collection of Internet communications,” the companies said.
这些公司说，“政府应该出于法律目的将监听监视限于具体的已知用户，而不应该从事互联网通讯的海量数据采集。”