Every day, innovative companies promise to make the world a better place. Are they succeeding?
每一天，那些创新公司都在承诺着要让世界变得更美好。他们做到了吗？
Here is just a sampling of the products, apps and services that have come across my radar in the last few weeks:
下面是几个产品、手机应用和服务的例子，都是最近几个星期我注意到的。
A service that sends someone to fill your car with gas.
让别人来帮你加满油的服务。
A service that sends a valet on a scooter to you, wherever you are, to park your car.
在任何地方叫代泊车服务员踩着滑板车来帮你停车的服务。
A service that will film anything you desire with a drone.
用无人机帮你为任何东西摄像的服务。
A service that will pack your suitcase — virtually.
帮你收拾行李的服务——虚拟的。
A service that delivers a new toothbrush head to your mailbox every three months.
每三个月把新的牙刷头寄到你邮箱里的服务。
A service that delivers your beer right to your door.
送啤酒上门的服务。
An app that analyzes the quality of your French kissing.
分析你法国式接吻水平的手机应用。
A “smart” button and zipper that alerts you if your fly is down.
裤子拉链没拉上时会提醒你的“智能”纽扣和拉链。
An app with speaker that plays music from within a mother’s vaginal walls to her unborn baby.
可以通过扬声器，在孕妇的阴道内给胎儿播放音乐的手机应用。
A sensor placed in your child’s diaper that sends you an alert when the diaper needs changing.
放在尿布上的传感器，该换尿布时发送警告。
An app that lets us brew our coffee from anywhere.
在任何地点都可以煮咖啡的手机应用。
A refrigerator advertised as “the Family Hub” that promises to act as a personal assistant, message board, stereo and photo album.
一种在广告宣传中被定义为“家庭中枢站”的冰箱，承诺充当私人助理、信息板、立体声音箱和相册。
An app to locate rentable driveways for parking.
寻找可供租用的私人停车位的手机应用。
An app to locate rentable yachts.
寻找出租游艇的手机应用。
An app to help you understand “cause and effect in your life.”
帮你了解“人生因果”的手机应用。
An app that guides mindful meditation.
指导冥想的手机应用。
An app that imparts wisdom.
传递智慧的手机应用。
And a new proposal to create an app designed to stop police killings.
最近还有人建议开发一种用来杜绝警察杀人的手机应用。
We are overloaded daily with new discoveries, patents and inventions all promising a better life, but that better life has not been forthcoming for most. In fact, the bulk of the above list targets a very specific (and tiny!) slice of the population. As one colleague in tech explained it to me recently, for most people working on such projects, the goal is basically to provide for themselves everything that their mothers no longer do.
每一天，我们都被各种承诺要让生活更美好的新发现、新专利和新发明所淹没，但是对于大部分人来说，更美好的生活没有到来。其实在上面的单子里，大部分项目都是针对一个特定（而且很小！）的人群。最近一个科技领域的同事向我解释说，对于大多数研发这类项目的人来说，他们的目标基本上就是为自己提供各种妈妈不再为他们做的事情。
He was joking — sort of — but his comment made me think hard about who is served by this stuff. I’m concerned that such a focus on comfort and instant gratification will reduce us all to those characters in “Wall-E,” bound to their recliners, Big Gulps in hand, interacting with the world exclusively through their remotes.
某种程度上，他是在开玩笑，但是他的话启发我去深入思考那些使用这些服务的人们。我担心，这样关注方便舒适和即时的满足感，会把我们都变成《机器人瓦力》(Wall-E)里的人，终日躺在在躺椅上，拿着大杯饮料，只靠遥控器和世界互动。
Too many well-funded entrepreneurial efforts turn out to promise more than they can deliver (i.e., Theranos’ finger-prick blood test) or read as parody (but, sadly, are not — such as the $99 “vessel” that monitors your water intake and tells you when you should drink more water).
众多资金雄厚的企业项目最后都被证明无法实现自己的承诺（比如Theranos的指血检测技术），或者看上去像是玩笑（不过悲哀的是，事实并非如此，比如价值99美元的“容器”，用来监控你摄入了多少水，告诉你何时应该再喝水了）。
When everything is characterized as “world-changing,” is anything?
当一切都被打上“改变世界”的标签，到底有什么东西真能正改变世界？
Clay Tarver, a writer and producer for the painfully on-point HBO comedy “Silicon Valley,” said in a recent New Yorker article: “I’ve been told that, at some of the big companies, the P.R. departments have ordered their employees to stop saying ‘We’re making the world a better place,’ specifically because we have made fun of that phrase so mercilessly. So I guess, at the very least, we’re making the world a better place by making these people stop saying they’re making the world a better place.”
作家克莱·塔弗(Clay Tarver)是一针见血的HBO喜剧《硅谷》(SiliconValley)的编剧。他最近在《纽约客》(New Yorker)的一篇文章中说：“我被告知，在某些大公司里，公关部门要求雇员不要再说‘我们在让世界变得更美好’这句话，主要是因为我们拿这句话开玩笑开得太狠了。所以我想，通过让这些人停止说‘我们让世界变得更美好’，我们让世界变得更美好了。”
O.K., that’s a start. But the impulse to conflate toothbrush delivery with Nobel Prize-worthy good works is not just a bit cultish, it’s currently a wildfire burning through the so-called innovation sector. Products and services are designed to “disrupt” market sectors (a.k.a. bringing to market things no one really needs) more than to solve actual problems, especially those problems experienced by what the writer C. Z. Nnaemeka has described as “the unexotic underclass” — single mothers, the white rural poor, veterans, out-of-work Americans over 50 — who, she explains, have the “misfortune of being insufficiently interesting.”
好吧，这是个开始。但是，把寄送牙刷和诺贝尔奖级别的杰作混为一谈的冲动，不只是一种宗教狂热，而是像燎原野火般横扫所谓的创新产业。很多产品和服务都是旨在“扰乱”市场划分（换言之，就是把根本没人需要的东西推向市场），而不是用来解决真正的问题，尤其不能解决那些被作家C·Z·纳埃梅卡(C. Z. Nnaemeka)称之为“寻常的下层社会”所面临的问题——就是那些单亲妈妈、乡村贫穷白人、老兵、年过50的失业美国人——她解释说，他们“很不幸，不够有趣”。
If the most fundamental definition of design is to solve problems, why are so many people devoting so much energy to solving problems that don’t really exist? How can we get more people to look beyond their own lived experience?
如果设计的最基本定义是用来解决问题，为什么那么多人投入那么多精力，去解决根本不存在的问题？我们该怎样让更多人看到超越自身生活体验之外的东西？
In “Design: The Invention of Desire,” a thoughtful and necessary new book by the designer and theorist Jessica Helfand, the author brings to light an amazing kernel: “hack,” a term so beloved in Silicon Valley that it’s painted on the courtyard of the Facebook campus and is visible from planes flying overhead, is also prison slang for “horse’s ass carrying keys.”
《设计：欲望的发明》(Design: The Invention of Desire)是一本深思熟虑又非常有用的新书，作者是设计师兼理论家杰西卡·赫尔方(Jessica Helfand)。她解释了那个惊人的内核“骇客”(hack)，这个词为硅谷所深爱，被绘在Facebook园区的院子里，从飞机上都能看见。在监狱里，它是用来指代“狱警”的俚语。
To “hack” is to cut, to gash, to break. It proceeds from the belief that nothing is worth saving, that everything needs fixing. But is that really the case? Are we fixing the right things? Are we breaking the wrong ones? Is it necessary to start from scratch every time?
做“骇客”就意味着切入、突击，打破。它源自那种没有任何事物值得保留，一切都需要被修理的信念。但是事实真的如此吗？我们是在修理需要修理的东西吗？我们是不是打破了不该打破的东西？每次都需要从零开始吗？
Empathy, humility, compassion, conscience: These are the key ingredients missing in the pursuit of innovation, Ms. Helfand argues, and in her book she explores design, and by extension innovation, as an intrinsically human discipline — albeit one that seems to have lost its way. Ms. Helfand argues that innovation is now predicated less on creating and more on the undoing of the work of others.
赫尔方指出，共情、谦卑、同情、良心：这些关键成分都是追求创新的过程中所缺失的。她在书中把设计，乃至创新，从本质上作为一个人文学科来探讨——尽管这个学科似乎已经迷失了的方向。赫尔方认为，如今，创新更多是基于毁掉别人的工作，而不是基于创造。
“In this humility-poor environment, the idea of disruption appeals as a kind of subversive provocation,” she writes. “Too many designers think they are innovating when they are merely breaking and entering.”
“在这样一个缺乏谦卑的环境下，‘扰乱’的概念显得像是一种颠覆性的挑衅，”她写道。“太多的设计师觉得他们是在创新，其实他们只是在破坏和闯入。”
In this way, innovation is very much mirroring the larger public discourse: a distrust of institutions combined with unabashed confidence in one’s own judgment shifts solutions away from fixing, repairing or improving and shoves them toward destruction for its own sake. (Sound like a certain presidential candidate? Or Brexit?)
在这层意义上，创新成了一段更宏大的公共话语的缩影：对制度的不信任，加上对自我判断的自以为是，让解决方案偏离了修补、修正或改善的目的，变成了为破坏而破坏（听上去像不像某位总统候选人？或者英国脱欧？）
Perhaps the main reason these frivolous products and services frustrate me is because of their creators’ insistence that changing lives for the better is their reason for being. To wit, the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, who has invested in companies like Airbnb and Twitter but also in services such as LikeALittle (which started out as a flirting tool among college students) and Soylent (a sort of SlimFast concoction for tech geeks), tweeted last week: “The perpetually missing headline: ‘Capitalism worked okay again today and most people in the world got a little better off.’ ”
或许这些微不足道的产品与服务令我烦恼的主要原因，是因为它们的创造者坚持认为，它们的存在就是为了让生活变得更好。马克·安德烈森(Marc Andreessen)上星期在Twitter上的言论也表达了这个意思：“你永远看不到的新闻：‘今天资本主义再次运行良好，世界上的大多数人生活得到改善’。”这位风险投资资本家曾经给Arirbnb和Twitter等公司投资，但也给LikeALittle（一开始是个大学生调情的工具）和Soylent（面向技术极客们的SlimFast类减肥食谱工具）等服务投资。
Meanwhile, in San Francisco, where such companies are based, sea level rise is ominous, the income gap between rich and poor has been growing faster than in any other city in the nation, a higher percentage of people send their kids to private school than in almost any other city, and a minimum salary of $254,000 is required to afford an average-priced home. Who exactly is better off?
与此同时，在旧金山，很多这类公司的所在地，海平面以危险的势头上升，贫富之间的收入鸿沟增长得比这个国家的任何城市更快，送孩子去私立学校的人比例比任何城市都更高。需要至少25.4万的年薪才能住得起普通价格水平的房子。到底谁过得更好了？
Ms. Helfand calls for a deeper embrace of personal vigilance: “Design may provide the map,” she writes, “but the moral compass that guides our personal choices resides permanently within us all.”
赫尔方呼吁更多的个人警觉：“设计或许能够提供地图，”她写道，“但是能够指引个人选择的道德罗盘却永远存在于我们每个人的内心。”
Can we reset that moral compass? Maybe we can start by not being a bunch of hacks.
我们能重新校准我们的道德罗盘吗？或许我们应该从不做骇客开始。