There is a widespread belief among teachers that students’ constant use of digital technology is hampering their attention spans and ability to persevere in the face of challenging tasks, according to two surveys of teachers being released on Thursday.
周四发布的由教师参与的两项调查显示，教师们普遍认为学生经常使用数码科技产品会缩短他们的注意周期，不利于学生培养攻克难题的毅力。
The researchers note that their findings represent the subjective views of teachers and should not be seen as definitive proof that widespread use of computers, phones and video games affects students’ capability to focus.
研究人员提到，这些发现仅代表教师的主观意见，因此并不能就此说明广泛使用电脑和手机以及玩电子游戏会影响学生的注意力。
Even so, the researchers who performed the studies, as well as scholars who study technology’s impact on behavior and the brain, say the studies are significant because of the vantage points of teachers, who spend hours a day observing students.
即便如此，从事这两项调查的研究人员及研究科技对行为和大脑的影响的学者们表示，调查是有意义的，因为教师每天都在长时间地观察学生，他们最有发言权。
The timing of the studies, from two well-regarded research organizations, appears to be coincidental.
这两家知名的研究机构十分凑巧地选择了相同的时间来开展这些调查。
One was conducted by the Pew Internet Project, a division of the Pew Research Center that focuses on technology-related research. The other comes from Common Sense Media, a nonprofit organization in San Francisco that advises parents on media use by children. It was conducted by Vicky Rideout, a researcher who has previously shown that media use among children and teenagers ages 8 to 18 has grown so fast that they on average spend twice as much time with screens each year as they spend in school.
其中一家机构是皮尤互联网项目(Pew Internet Project)，隶属于皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)。另一家机构则是常识媒体(Common Sense Media)。该机构是一家位于旧金山的非营利性机构，致力于向家长提供子女在使用媒体方面的建议。该研究的发起人是研究员维姬·莱德奥特(Vicky Rideout)。她之前所做的调查显示，在8～18岁媒体的儿童和青少年中，使用科技产品的数量增长非常迅猛，他们每年平均面对屏幕的时间是在校时间的两倍。
Teachers who were not involved in the surveys echoed their findings in interviews, saying they felt they had to work harder to capture and hold students’ attention.
在采访中，那些没有参与调查的教师们也同意调查里的结论，他们同时表示，教师不得不花更多的精力来吸引并保持学生的注意力。
“I’m an entertainer. I have to do a song and dance to capture their attention,” said Hope Molina-Porter, 37, an English teacher at Troy High School in Fullerton, Calif., who has taught for 14 years. She teaches accelerated students, but has noted a marked decline in the depth and analysis of their written work.
加州富勒顿特洛伊高中37岁的英语教师霍普·莫琳娜-波特(Hope Molina-Porter)说，“我成了演员。为了吸引他们的注意力，我得又唱又跳。”她已经执教14年，目前教优等班，但她发现学生写作的深度和分析能力有明显下降。
She said she did not want to shrink from the challenge of engaging them, nor did other teachers interviewed, but she also worried that technology was causing a deeper shift in how students learned. She also wondered if teachers were adding to the problem by adjusting their lessons to accommodate shorter attention spans.
她表示，面对教学中的挑战，她并不会退缩，其他接受采访的教师们表示也不会。但是她担心科技正在大幅改变学生的学习方式。她同时还担心，如果教师们根据学生注意周期的下降来调整自己的教学，那么问题是否会变得更为严重。
“Are we contributing to this?” Ms. Molina-Porter said. “What’s going to happen when they don’t have constant entertainment?”
莫琳娜-波特女士说，“我们在助长这一习气吗？一旦我不唱不跳了，后果会怎么样？”
Scholars who study the role of media in society say no long-term studies have been done that adequately show how and if student attention span has changed because of the use of digital technology. But there is mounting indirect evidence that constant use of technology can affect behavior, particularly in developing brains, because of heavy stimulation and rapid shifts in attention.
社会上研究媒体角色的学者们表示，目前还没有人开展这方面的长期研究，因此也就无法充分证明使用数字科技是否以及如何会影响学生的注意周期。但是越来越多的间接证据表明，经常使用数字科技会影响行为，尤其是发育中的大脑，因为数字科技会带来强烈的刺激，并迅速地改变注意力。
Kristen Purcell, the associate director for research at Pew, acknowledged that the findings could be viewed from another perspective: that the education system must adjust to better accommodate the way students learn, a point that some teachers brought up in focus groups themselves.
皮尤研究中心研究副主任克里斯滕·博瑟尔(Kristen Purcell)表示，人们可以从另一个角度来看待研究的结论：教育系统必须更好地与学生的学习方式接轨，一些老师在焦点小组(focus groups)讨论中也提到了这一点。
“What we’re labeling as ‘distraction,’ some see as a failure of adults to see how these kids process information,” Ms. Purcell said. “They’re not saying distraction is good but that the label of ‘distraction’ is a judgment of this generation.”
博瑟尔说，“有些人将之称为‘注意力不集中’，有些人则认为大人们没有理解这些孩子是如何消化信息的。他们并不是说注意力不集中是件好事，但是‘注意力不集中’的称谓是对这一代的一个评价。”
The surveys also found that many teachers said technology could be a useful educational tool. In the Pew survey, which was done in conjunction with the College Board and the National Writing Project, roughly 75 percent of 2,462 teachers surveyed said that the Internet and search engines had a “mostly positive” impact on student research skills. And they said such tools had made students more self-sufficient researchers.
调查还发现，很多老师说科技也可以成为有用的教学工具。皮尤与大学理事会(College Board)和国家写作计划(National Writing Project)联合开展的调查显示，在2462名教师中，近75%接受调查的教师表示，互联网和搜索引擎对于学生研究能力的影响是“利大于弊”。而且他们还表示，这些工具让学生们成为了更为独立的研究者。
But nearly 90 percent said that digital technologies were creating “an easily distracted generation with short attention spans.”
但是将近90%的人都表示，数字科技正在创造“注意周期下降、容易走神的一代”。
Similarly, of the 685 teachers surveyed in the Common Sense project, 71 percent said they thought technology was hurting attention span “somewhat” or “a lot.” About 60 percent said it hindered students’ ability to write and communicate face to face, and almost half said it hurt critical thinking and their ability to do homework.
同样，在常识项目中接受调查的685名教师中，71%的人表示，他们认为科技对注意周期有“一定的”影响或“很大的”影响。大约60%的人表示，科技不利于学生培养写作和面对面的交流能力，而且近半数教师认为科技有损学生的批判性思考能力和做作业的能力。
There was little difference in how younger and older teachers perceived the impact of technology.
关于科技的影响，年轻老师和年长教师持有的观点几乎一致。
“Boy, is this a clarion call for a healthy and balanced media diet,” said Jim Steyer, the chief executive of Common Sense Media. He added, “What you have to understand as a parent is that what happens in the home with media consumption can affect academic achievement.”
常识媒体首席执行官吉姆·斯泰尔(Jim Steyer)说，“是否这就意味着推广健康、平衡的媒体膳食已成为当务之急？”他补充道，“作为父母，你应该意识到，家庭中科技媒体的使用会影响学习成绩。”
In interviews, teachers described what might be called a “Wikipedia problem,” in which students have grown so accustomed to getting quick answers with a few keystrokes that they are more likely to give up when an easy answer eludes them. The Pew research found that 76 percent of teachers believed students had been conditioned by the Internet to find quick answers.
在采访中，教师们描述了所谓的“维基百科问题”。学生们已经习惯于通过输入关键词来快速寻找答案，因此一旦找答案时碰了钉子，他们很可能就会放弃。在皮尤调查中，有76%的老师认为，学生们已养成了靠互联网来迅速查找答案的习惯。
“They need skills that are different than ‘Spit, spit, there’s the answer,’ ” said Lisa Baldwin, 48, a high school teacher in Great Barrington, Mass., who said students’ ability to focus and fight through academic challenges was suffering an “exponential decline.” She said she saw the decline most sharply in students whose parents allowed unfettered access to television, phones, iPads and video games.
马萨诸塞州大巴灵顿48岁的高中教师丽莎·鲍德温(Lisa Baldwin)说，“学生们应该掌握真正的技巧，而不是‘快、快，快说答案。’”她还表示，学生的专注能力和挑战学术难题的能力出现了“大幅度下滑”。她说，对于那些家长允许无限制使用电视、手机、iPad和游戏机的学生们来说，这种能力的下降尤为明显。
For her part, Ms. Baldwin said she refused to lower her expectations or shift her teaching style to be more entertaining. But she does spend much more time in individual tutoring sessions, she added, coaching students on how to work through challenging assignments.
鲍德温女士，她不会降低对学生的要求，亦不会调整她的教学方式朝娱乐性方向转变。但她补充道，她确实在个人辅导环节花费了更多的时间，为的是教学生们如何完成富有挑战性的作业。
Other teachers said technology was as much a solution as a problem. Dave Mendell, 44, a fourth-grade teacher in Wallingford, Pa., said that educational video games and digital presentations were excellent ways to engage students on their terms. Teachers also said they were using more dynamic and flexible teaching styles.
其他的教师说，科技既带来了方法也带来了问题。宾夕法尼亚州沃林福德44岁的四年级教师大卫·门德尔(Dave Mendell)说，教育视频游戏和数字演示对学生来说都是非常好的教学方式。教师们还说，他们正在使用更为动感灵活的教学模式。
“I’m tap dancing all over the place,” Mr. Mendell said. “The more I stand in front of class, the easier it is to lose them.”
门德尔表示，“我一直在围着教室打转。如果我一动不动地站在教室前面，学生们就容易走神。”
He added that it was tougher to engage students, but that once they were engaged, they were just as able to solve problems and be creative as they had been in the past. He would prefer, he added, for students to use less entertainment media at home, but he did not believe it represented an insurmountable challenge for teaching them at school.
他补充道，吸引学生的注意力难度越来越大，但是一旦他们融入进来，他们会和往常一样善于解决问题，善于创造。他仍希望学生在家少用娱乐性科技媒体，但是他认为这一教学难关还是可以攻破的。
While the Pew research explored how technology has affected attention span, it also looked at how the Internet has changed student research habits. By contrast, the Common Sense survey focused largely on how teachers saw the impact of entertainment media on a range of classroom skills.
皮尤中心的研究不仅调查了科技对学生注意周期的影响，还观察了互联网对学生学习习惯的改变。作为对比，常识媒体的调查主要研究了老师们如何看待娱乐性媒体对各种课堂技能的影响。
The surveys include some findings that appear contradictory. In the Common Sense report, for instance, some teachers said that even as they saw attention spans wane, students were improving in subjects like math, science and reading.
调查中的有些结论是相互矛盾的。例如在常识媒体的报告中，一些教师表示，即便他们注意到学生的注意力下降，但学生们在数学、科学和阅读方面的成绩有所提高。
But researchers said the conflicting views could be the result of subjectivity and bias. For example, teachers may perceive themselves facing both a more difficult challenge but also believe that they are overcoming the challenge through effective teaching.
但是研究人员说，冲突的观点可能源于主观性和偏见。例如，教师虽然认为他们面临的挑战越来越大，但是他们仍相信自己能通过有效的教学方式来克服困难。
Pew said its research gave a “complex and at times contradictory” picture of teachers’ view of technology’s impact.
皮尤表示，其调查体现了教师们对科技影响“复杂并且时而矛盾”的看法。
Dr. Dimitri Christakis, who studies the impact of technology on the brain and is the director of the Center for Child Health, Behavior and Development at Seattle Children’s Hospital, emphasized that teachers’ views were subjective but nevertheless could be accurate in sensing dwindling attention spans among students.
西雅图儿童医院(Seattle Children’s Hospital)儿童健康、行为和发展中心(Center for Child Health, Behavior and Development)主任迪米特里·克里斯塔吉斯博士(Dr. Dimitri Christakis)正在研究科技对大脑的影响。他强调，虽然老师的观点是主观的，但是他们对于学生注意周期的下降的感知可能是准确的。