SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s brick-and-mortar stores are among the most lucrative in the world. Now the company is trying to make its online stores just as successful, and with a dash of style from the high fashion world.
旧金山——苹果(Apple)的实体店居于全球最奢华店铺之列。现在，该公司吸取了高端时尚界的一些管理风格，正在设法使它的网店取得同样的成功。
On Tuesday, Apple said it had hired Angela Ahrendts, who transformed Burberry from a faded British icon into a symbol of global luxury. Her new job: to reshape Apple’s physical and online retail efforts so that they are both equally admired.
周二，苹果表示公司聘用了安吉拉·阿伦茨(Angela Ahrendts)，后者曾让光环尽失的英国标志品牌博柏利(Burberry)转变成全球奢侈品的一个象征符号。她的新工作是重新规划苹果实体店和网络零售店的发展举措，以使二者能获得消费者的同等赏识。
“I have wanted one person to lead both of these teams for some time,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said in an internal memo to employees that was leaked on the Web, “because I believe it will better serve our customers, but I had never met anyone whom I felt confident could lead both until I met Angela.”
苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)在给员工的一份内部备忘录中表示，“一段时间以来，我一直想让一个人同时负责这两个团队。因为我相信，这么做能更好地服务我们的顾客，可是，遇到安吉拉之前，我一直没找到一个能让我放心交托这两个团体的人。”该备忘录泄露到了网上。
Apple’s over 400 retail stores have been instrumental to the company’s success. With a minimalist design and destination sites in far-flung places like Shanghai and Rome, the stores have become both a retail and marketing channel for the company.
苹果的400多家零售店对该公司的成功可谓功不可没。这些零售店坐落在上海和罗马等彼此远隔万里的地点，设计用的是极简风格，既是苹果的零售业务渠道，又是苹果的市场推广渠道。
In the last few years, Apple has added many upgrades to make its stores more high-tech, like the ability to pay for a product with an iPhone. But its online store has not changed much — Apple usually brings the store offline temporarily whenever it adds new products, an approach that seems dated.
过去的几年里，苹果已经给零售店添加了许多新功能，比如通过iPhone给产品付费的功能，让它们变得更有高科技风范。不过，苹果的网店还没有做出太多改变——添加新产品时，苹果通常都会让网店暂时离线，这种方式似乎已经落伍。
Ms. Ahrendts will probably be expected to make shopping online and in stores more seamless, and help make the customer service experience similar whether consumers are walking in or logging on to an Apple store.
苹果多半希望阿伦茨让网购和实体店采购更加无缝地融合在一起，使顾客能在登录网店时获得与步入实体店类似的服务体验。
She will bring with her a deep knowledge of retailing. Under her watch, Burberry put technology in the forefront of its brand strategy. The company established a strong presence on Facebook and other social media and built a unified experience for its online marketplace and store.
她会随身带来深厚的零售经验。之前，在她的监督下，博柏利把科技推到了品牌战略的前沿。该公司在Facebook和其他社交媒体上建立了一个强大的平台，并为在线卖场和实体商店打造了统一的体验。
People in the fashion industry credit Ms. Ahrendts with expanding Burberry into an international fashion brand while maintaining its heritage, and said Apple could use some of that magic.
时尚业人士称赞阿伦茨把博柏利拓展成了国际时尚品牌，同时还保留了它的传统。他们说，苹果可以利用这当中的一部分神奇技巧。
“It’s about being able to tap into trends — not just fashion trends, but what people want in their lives, what they’re talking about — while maintaining a sense of the brand,” said Simon Ungless, director of fashion at the Academy of Art University in the San Francisco area, who has worked for designers like Alexander McQueen. “I think that’s what she’s done at Burberry very well, and that feels like something they’ve lost at Apple.”
旧金山地区的旧金山艺术大学(Academy of Art University)时尚系主任西蒙·昂格莱斯(Simon Ungless)说，“这是因为阿伦茨有能力开拓潮流，同时保持品牌意识，这里的潮流不仅指时尚潮流，它还指人们在生活中想要什么、正在谈论什么。我认为，在博柏利时，她在这点上就做得非常好，而这一点似乎是苹果已经失去的东西。”昂格莱斯曾为亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)等设计师工作。
Ms. Ahrendts, 53, was raised far from the runways. She grew up in Indiana and graduated from Ball State University, also in Indiana. She eventually found her way to the fashion industry and started rising up the executive ranks, becoming Burberry’s chief executive in 2006.
53岁的阿伦茨是从远离时尚圈的地方走到今天的位置的。她在印第安纳州长大，毕业于该州的鲍尔州立大学(Ball State University)。她最终找到了通往时尚业的路，开始在管理层中青云直上，并在2006年成为了博柏利的首席执行官。
As Burberry’s fortunes rose, so did Ms. Ahrendts’s profile. That profile could grow even larger at Apple, one of the biggest companies in the world — and one of the most closely followed. She will now be the only woman on Apple’s executive team, and some analysts on Tuesday speculated that she could be an eventual successor to Mr. Cook, though he is not expected to leave anytime soon.
博柏利的财运节节攀升，阿伦茨的风头也一样。到了苹果，她的风头可能会锦上添花，因为苹果是全球最大的公司之一，也是人们关注最密切的公司之一。如今她将成为苹果高管团队中唯一的女性，一些分析人士于本周二推测，她最终还可能成为库克的继任者，尽管库克预计不会在近期离任。
Ms. Ahrendts, who joined Burberry from Liz Claiborne, is Apple’s second big hire from the fashion industry this year. In the summer, Apple hired Paul Deneve, the former chief executive of the French fashion house Yves Saint Laurent, to work on special projects.
从丽资克莱本(Liz Claiborne)加入博柏利的阿伦茨是苹果今年从时尚业挖来的第二个重要人物。今年夏天，苹果聘用了法国时装品牌伊夫圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)前首席执行官保罗·丹尼弗(Paul Deneve)为苹果的特别项目工作。
Silicon Valley has long had its eye on fashion and the industry’s success at selling an image. And the push by technology companies into so-called wearable technology, like Google Glass and Samsung’s smartwatch, has only intensified that interest. When models wearing Google’s eyewear walked the runway at Diane von Furstenberg’s show in New York this year, it became obvious that the connection was lasting.
长期以来，硅谷一直在密切关注时尚业，关注时尚业在销售概念方面取得的成功。科技公司纷纷进军所谓的可佩戴技术，比如谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)和三星(Samsung)的智能手表，对时尚业的兴趣便越发强烈。今年，戴着谷歌眼镜的模特走上了纽约戴安妮·冯·弗斯滕伯格(Diane von Furstenberg)的秀场，显而易见，两个行业之间的联系将会持久不衰。
The hiring of Ms. Ahrendts increased expectations among analysts that Apple would expand into wearable technology, including perhaps an Internet-connected wristwatch.
聘请阿伦茨的举动增强了分析人士的预测，即苹果可能会向可佩戴科技领域扩张，或许包括开发一款能连接互联网的腕表。
“Everyone in the market is seriously thinking about wearable technology,” said Jez Frampton, global chief executive of Interbrand, a consulting group. “Tackling the fashion markets requires a different skill set than the tech sector.”
“这个市场上的所有人都在认真考虑可佩戴科技，”咨询公司Interbrand的全球首席执行官杰兹·弗兰普顿(Jez Frampton)说，“同科技行业相比，应对时尚市场需要一套不同的技能。”
Ms. Ahrendts recruitment to Apple’s senior management will help the company reassert its reputation as a global luxury brand. Before she took over Burberry, the company and its clothes and accessories had become increasingly associated with low-end retail customers. By adapting Burberry’s image to a youthful style, but one that never jettisoned the core clothing, the brand was repositioned as “affordable luxury.”
招募阿伦茨进入高管团队将有助于苹果公司重振自己作为全球奢侈品牌的声誉。阿伦茨接掌博柏利之前，这家公司和它生产的服装配饰已日渐同低端零售客户联系在了一起。通过将自身形象变成一种年轻的风格，同时坚守核心服饰，这个品牌已被重新定位为“买得起的奢侈品”。
That branding strategy could be useful for Apple in a time when it is dipping its toe into lower prices, with a cheaper plastic iPhone and the lower-cost iPad Mini. While Apple is increasingly associated with high-end brands like Gucci and Ferrari, analysts warn that the American tech company also must expand into the wider consumer market where it increasingly faces competition from the likes of Google and other manufacturers of low-cost Android phones.
这一品牌战略可能会对苹果有帮助，因为苹果正在尝试低价策略，推出了塑料外壳的iPhone和价格较低的iPad Mini。尽管苹果越来越同古驰(Gucci)和法拉利(Ferrari)之类的高端品牌联系在一起，但分析人士警告称，苹果公司也必须向更广泛的消费市场扩张。在这个市场上，这家美国科技公司日渐面临着来自谷歌和其他低价Android手机生产商的竞争。
“This represents a strategic shift,” said David Godber, global chief executive of the brand design consultancy Elmwood in London. “Tim Cook wants people in his team that are capable of shifting Apple from a technology innovator to a luxury lifestyle company.”
“这代表着一种战略转变，”伦敦品牌设计咨询公司Elmwood的全球首席执行官戴维·戈德伯(David Godber)说，“蒂姆·库克希望，自己团队里的人能把苹果从一个科技创新公司转变成一个销售奢华生活方式的公司。”
Ms. Ahrendts will partly be filling a role once held by John Browett, who had a short-lived stint in charge of Apple’s retail business before a prominent firing last year. Mr. Browett had run the British low-end technology retailer Dixons, and he left Apple after less than six months. Analysts said his efforts to cut costs at Apple’s stores did not fit with the company’s overall strategy, and Apple publicly apologized for a plan by Mr. Browett to cut back on staffing at its retail outlets.
阿伦茨将在一定程度上充当约翰·布劳伊特(John Browett)的角色。在去年遭到引人注目的解雇之前，布劳伊特曾短暂地负责苹果的零售业务。布劳伊特曾掌管英国的低端科技产品零售企业Dixons，并在担任苹果零售业务主管不到半年后被解雇。分析人士表示，他削减苹果店铺成本的措施与公司的总体战略不符，苹果还曾为布劳伊特削减零售店员工的计划公开道歉。
Mr. Browett took the position at Apple after Ron Johnson left to become chief executive at J. C. Penney. Although he was considered a great success at Apple, Mr. Johnson quickly ran into problems, and he left this year after just 17 months in the job.
布劳伊特是在罗恩·约翰逊(Ron Johnson)离开苹果并出任彭尼百货(J. C. Penney)首席执行官后担任零售业务主管一职的。尽管被认为在苹果取得了极大的成功，但约翰逊很快就在彭尼百货遇到了问题。今年，仅担任了17个月首席执行官的约翰逊离开了该公司。
The physical stores have helped Apple’s bottom line. On average, each store brings in around $13 million in revenue every three months, or roughly double the comparable figures for the luxury jewelry brand Tiffany & Company, according to the research firm Asymco. Apple earned just under $4.1 billion from roughly 84 million visitors to its retail stores in the three months through June 30.
实体店对苹果的盈利大有裨益。根据研究公司Asymco的数据，每家实体店每三个月平均会带来大约1300万美元（约合7900万元人民币）的收入，大致相当于奢侈品珠宝品牌蒂芙尼公司(Tiffany & Company)可比数据的两倍。在截至6月30日的三个月里，大约有8400万人光临苹果零售店，苹果从中获得了近41亿美元的收入。
“Apple is a rarity as a retailer,” said Liam Hamill, strategy director at the brand consulting firm Venturethree in London. “Its stores aren’t merely designed to sell products, but to give a halo effect to its brand.”
“苹果是零售商当中的异类，”伦敦品牌咨询公司Venturethree的策略总监利厄姆·哈密尔(Liam Hamill)说。“它的店铺不光用来销售产品，还用来给自家品牌制造光环效应。”