MY mother, a former middle school math teacher, was a model for my career in education, although I did not take the classroom path. She and my father, a bank executive, raised me and my younger sister and brother outside Chicago, in Skokie and Glencoe, Ill.
在我的教育职业生涯中，我一直把曾经做过中学数学教师的母亲视为楷模，尽管我始终没有踏上三尺讲台。在伊利诺伊州芝加哥市外的斯科基和格伦科地区，她和我的父亲，一位银行高管，把我和弟弟妹妹们抚养成人。
I graduated in 1980 from Indiana University in Bloomington, with a bachelor’s degree in elementary education. That summer, I taught remedial math to seventh graders, but found that I didn’t have the right tools to assess them and to help them master the material.
1980年，我从印第安那大学伯明顿分校(Indiana University in Bloomington)毕业，获初等教育学士学位。那年夏天，我为几位七年级学生补习数学，但我发现，我找不到合适的工具来评估他们的数学水平，因而无法帮助他们掌握教材内容。
After I graduated, my first full-time job was at an education publishing company, Scott Foresman, developing reading and math software for students.
大学毕业后，我在斯科特·福尔斯曼教育出版公司(Scott Foresman)获得了第一份全职工作：为学生开发阅读和数学软件。
Early on, I learned to use the first spreadsheet program — a predecessor to Excel — and was struck by how technology could aid productivity. In 1985, I earned my M.B.A. from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern.
刚开始工作时，我学会了使用第一款电子表格软件，即Excel的前身。让我惊叹不已的是，科技竟然能够如此大幅度地提升生产力。1985年，我从西北大学凯洛格管理学院(Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern)获得MBA学位。
McDougal Littell, a publisher, hired me in 1994 as vice president for marketing just after it was acquired by Houghton Mifflin. Four years later, I became the general manager for the Everyday Learning Corporation, owned by the Tribune Company. In 2000, I became president of the Wright Group, a Tribune education company that McGraw-Hill had acquired. Two years later, I was named president of Macmillan/McGraw-Hill, the elementary textbook division of McGraw-Hill.
1994年，在麦克杜格尔·利特尔出版公司(McDougal Littell)刚刚被霍顿·米夫林集团(Houghton Mifflin)收购后，这家出版商聘请我担任营销副总裁。四年后，我成为每日学习公司(Everyday Learning Corporation)的总经理，该公司归论坛报业集团(Tribune Company)所有。2000年，我出任莱特集团(Wright Group)总裁，这家隶属于论坛报业集团的教育公司当时已被麦格劳希尔集团(McGraw-Hill)收购。两年后，我被任命为麦克米伦/麦格劳希尔公司(Macmillan/McGraw-Hill)副总裁，这家公司负责经营麦格劳希尔集团的小学教科书业务。
After leaving in fall 2006, I started StrategyFactor, a firm to advise companies in the education market. One client was Kaplan Inc., and in 2008, I was named president of Kaplan’s K12 Learning Services division.
2006年秋天离职后，我创办了战略因素公司(StrategyFactor)，这是一家面向教育类公司的咨询机构。卡普兰公司(Kaplan Inc.)就是我们的客户之一。2008年，我被任命为卡普兰公司K12学习服务事业部(K12 Learning Services)总裁。
Jonathan N. Grayer, Kaplan’s former C.E.O., hired me in 2011 to join Weld North, an investment firm in Greenwich, Conn. We looked for investments in the education market, and our first was Education 2020, an online learning company. After the acquisition, I became Education 2020’s C.E.O.Last summer, my husband, Phil Factor, a critical-care physician, and I moved to Arizona, where the company, renamed Edgenuity, is based.
2011年，卡普兰公司前任CEO乔纳森·格雷尔(Jonathan N. Grayer)邀请我加入位于康涅狄格州格林威治的投资机构Weld North公司。我们寻求教育市场的投资机会，在线教育公司教育2020(Education 2020)是我们首个投资对象。收购完成后，我随即出任教育2020公司CEO一职。去年夏天，我和做重症监护医师的丈夫菲尔·法克特(Phil Factor)搬到了这家公司的所在地亚利桑那州，该公司现已更名为Edgenuity。
Our online curriculum allows students to learn at their own pace, and helps them to develop skills like goal-setting and note-taking. With fewer resources, schools are cutting back educational offerings, but we can offer an online course in a foreign language or health science, for example, even if only a few students want to take it.
我们的在线课程让学生按照自己的步骤学习，并帮助他们发展设定目标和记笔记等技能。由于资源减少，不少学校都削减了教学科目，但我们能够开设一些相对冷门的在线课程，比如一门外语课或健康科学课，即使仅有极少数学生打算上这些课。
We also offer professional development courses to help teachers use our online curriculum and tools in the classroom. So far, we are providing online courses to nine of the country’s 15 largest school districts.
我们还提供教师专业发展课程，以帮助老师们在课堂上使用我们的在线课程和工具。到目前为止，我们提供的在线教育课程已经覆盖美国15个大学区中的九个。
I also serve on the board of the “I Have a Dream” Foundation, which helps disadvantaged students from the elementary to high school level gain the academic and life skills they need to succeed in college and beyond. Much of my work is driven by the realization that many students don’t have the opportunities they should, and that access to education can level the playing field. And technology enables that access.
此外，我还在“我有一个梦想”基金会(“I Have a Dream”Foundation)担任董事，这家基金会致力于帮助从小学至高中阶段的贫困学生掌握他们在大学和以后阶段获取成功所需的学术和生活技能。我的许多工作都源自于这样一种认识：许多学生没有他们应该拥有的机会，普及受教育机会有助于建立一个公平的竞争环境。科技使得这种受教育机会成为可能。
When I joined Edgenuity, I visited a school where students who had failed classes were using our personalized curriculum to learn and earn the credits they needed. One student asked me: “Why did I have to fail to be able to learn this way?” Talk about a piercing observation. That was the moment I pledged that we would redouble our efforts to help those students whom the system has failed, and to pioneer more engaging and effective ways for students to experience real learning. That experience inspired my efforts to help students advance at their own pace.
刚加入Edgenuity公司时，我曾经参观过一所学校。在这所学校，功课不及格的学生正在学习我们的个性化课程，并获得了他们所需的学分。一位学生问我：“为什么非得考试不及格才能学这种课程呢？”这番话令我深深省醒。也就是在那一刻，我发誓要加倍努力，全身心地帮助那些在正规教育体系考核中失败了的学生，通过开创更有吸引力、更有效的教学方式，让这些学生真正体验学习的乐趣。我为帮助学生按照自己的步骤学习而做出的种种努力，皆是源自那次经历的启发。