When Joel and Ethan Coen were growing up, they used to make Super 8 films, including remakes of Hollywood movies that they had watched on TV. Since then, the Coens have continued to let their imagination loose while ranging wide across cinematic and literary genres, drawing on pulp literature (“Blood Simple,” “Miller’s Crossing”), screwball cinema (“The Hudsucker Proxy,” “Intolerable Cruelty”), Homer’s Odyssey (“O Brother, Where Art Thou?”), the Bible and their own suburban Minneapolis childhood (“A Serious Man”) to make movies that, increasingly, have the quality of an evolving, distinctly American mythopoeia. 
乔尔·科恩与伊森·科恩(Joel and Ethan Coen)小时候玩过超8毫米胶片，包括重拍他们在电视上看到的好莱坞电影。此后两兄弟一直让他们的想象力肆意游走在各种电影和文学门类之间，把低俗文学（《血迷宫》[Blood Simple]、《米勒的十字路口》[Miller’s Crossing]）、疯狂搞笑片（《影子大亨》[The Hudsucker Proxy]、《真情假爱》[Intolerable Cruelty]）、荷马史诗(《逃狱三王》[O Brother, Where Art Thou?]）、圣经以及他们自己的明尼阿波利斯郊区童年生活（《严肃的男人》[A Serious Man]）都用到自己的作品里去，而且越来越明显可以看到，这些电影都有着一种正在演进中的、美国味十足的神话色彩。
In July, Manohla Dargis and A. O. Scott, the chief film critics for The New York Times, met with Joel Coen, now 58, and Ethan Coen, 55, in Santa Monica, Calif., to discuss their work, including their latest film, “Inside Llewyn Davis” (Dec. 6) about a 1961 folk singer (played by Oscar Isaac), who’s struggling with his music, the world, the changing times and — this being the Coens — his comically flawed humanity. The brothers sat across from each other and at times seemed to share a single (very large and fast-moving) brain. These are excerpts from the conversation.
7月，《纽约时报》首席电影评论人曼诺拉·达吉斯(Manohla Dargis)和A·O·斯科特(A. O. Scott)与现年58岁的乔尔·科恩、55岁的伊森·科恩在加州圣莫妮卡见面，聊了他们的作品，包括新片《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)。影片讲的是1961年一个民谣歌手（由奥斯卡·伊萨克[Oscar Isaac]饰演）在自己的音乐、世界和时代变革中挣扎的故事，以及——毕竟是科恩兄弟的电影——他的品性中的一些可笑缺陷。两兄弟面对面坐着，时常显得是在共用一个（极其硕大而敏捷的）大脑。以下是谈话中的一些片段。
Q. Can you talk about the genesis of “Inside Llewyn Davis”?
问：能说说《醉乡民谣》是怎么来的吗？
Ethan Coen We were in the office and Joel said, “O.K., suppose Dave Van Ronk gets beat up outside of Gerde’s Folk City. That’s the beginning of a movie.”
伊森·科恩：我们在办公室里，乔尔说，“好，假设戴夫·范·容克(Dave Van Ronk)在歌笛民谣城(Gerde’s Folk City)门外被暴打一顿。这是一个电影开头。”
Joel Coen It was an idea we kept coming back to. We were thinking 1961 is interesting, because it’s the scene that Dylan came into, not the one he created or transformed, because people know more about that. Dylan once said something — and I’m paraphrasing him — “Really, all I wanted is to be as big as Dave Van Ronk.” That’s how limited that scene was, in terms of the people in the broader culture.
乔尔·科恩：这个点子是我们反复在想的。我们觉得1961年很有意思，因为那是迪伦（指鲍勃·迪伦[Bob Dylan]。——译注）刚出道的时候，那个世界还没有被他创造或改造过，后来那个人们就比较了解了。迪伦曾经说过——我转述他的意思——“其实我只想成为戴夫·范·容克那样的大明星。”那个圈子就有那么小，如果你去跟这整个文化当中的人去比的话。
Did you grow up listening to that music?
你们是听那些音乐长大的吗？
Ethan Yeah, sort of, through Bob Dylan, like everybody else, probably.
伊森：是，差不多吧，通过鲍勃·迪伦，可能跟大家一样。
Joel I’m a little older than Ethan, but I have very vague early memories of hearing folk music, my mother playing it or something, when I was fairly little.
乔尔：我比伊森年纪大点，但是我模模糊糊记得早年听民谣音乐，我母亲在放的什么东西，当时我还很小。
Ethan We had a fantastic record of a concert, a rock concert, of Big Bill Broonzy and Pete Seeger, which is kind of ——
伊森：我们有张很精彩的现场唱片，摇滚现场，大比尔·布朗西(Big Bill Broonzy)和皮特·西格(Pete Seeger)的，那是张——
Joel Yes, that was a really early record that was a concert in Chicago, where Pete played. In fact, that’s how we met T Bone [Burnett]. T Bone called us up sort of out of the blue after he saw “Raising Arizona,” because he thought it was very amusing that we played Beethoven on banjo in the score in the movie. We said to him, “Well, we really stole that from Pete Seeger,” because Pete Seeger played that. We knew it from this concert record.
乔尔：是的，那是张非常早的唱片，是在芝加哥的一场演出，皮特在那演出。其实我们跟“T骨”·博内特(T-Bone Burnett)就是这么认识的。T骨是看了《抚养亚历桑纳》(Raising Arizona)后突然给我们打了个电话，他觉得我们的片子用班卓琴弹的贝多芬作配乐很有意思。我们说，“其实我们是从皮特·西格那偷来的，”因为皮特·西格那么弹过。我们就是从那张现场唱片里听来的。
Ethan Oh, the one disclaimer I should’ve made when we talked about the genesis of the movie: We did start thinking about Dave Van Ronk, and in fact read his memoir, which is kind of great, “The Mayor of Macdougal Street.” But the movie’s not about Dave Van Ronk, although Oscar, the character, has his kind of repertoire. It’s his music. It’s a fictional character we gave his music to.
伊森：噢对了，关于这部电影的缘起，有一点我需要声明：我们一开始的确想的是戴夫·范·容克，事实上也去读了他的回忆录，《麦克道格街的市长》(The Mayor of Macdougal Street)，还挺棒的。但电影不是讲戴夫·范·容克的故事，虽然奥斯卡这个角色的曲目跟他相像。这是他的音乐。我们把他的音乐给了一个虚构人物。
How did you find Oscar Isaac?
你们是怎么找到奥斯卡·伊萨克的？
Joel After we wrote the movie and we started casting it, we knew that there was going to be a lot of performance in the movie, and that actually when you heard a song in the movie, we really wanted to hear the whole song. And it’s also a story where we felt like there’s got to be something about the character that you only know through his performance and his music — you know, like a real musician. So we only auditioned real musicians.
乔尔：剧本写好后我们开始选角，我们知道影片里会有很多的演出，而且其实当你在电影里听到一首歌的时候，你是想把整个曲子听完的。另外在这个故事里，我们觉得这个人物的某些地方只能通过他的演出和音乐去了解——就跟一个真正的音乐家一样。所以我们只找真的音乐家试镜。
Ethan [Laughs.]
伊森：[笑。]
Joel You know, that was not so great. It’s often possible — sometimes it’s even easy — to get somebody like that through a scene or two scenes or three scenes or whatever, and it’s great, it’s fine. But this character’s literally in every scene in the movie, so we realized we were going the wrong direction, and we just started seeing actors who could play, as opposed to musicians who could act. And there are more of those, by the way.
乔尔：所以情况不太妙。在这种人里面，能把一场、两场、三场戏演下来的人还是有的——有时候甚至挺好找，这很好，这没问题。但是这个人物结结实实地要出现在整部电影的每一场戏里，所以我们意识到方向错了，我们开始在演员里找能演奏的，而不是找音乐家里能演戏的。顺便说一下，前者多一些。
Ethan And we’ve been doing this like, 30 years. You’d think we know something as basic as this, that you need an actor.
伊森：我们干这行有个30年了吧。可能你会以为，我们肯定已经懂得一些最基础的东西，比如你需要一个演员。
Joel I know. It was a little insane. Oscar came in and he said, “Most actors, if you ask them if they play guitar, they’ll say they played guitar for 20 years, but what they really mean is they’ve owned a guitar for 20 years.” Oscar’s actually played guitar since he was little little, you know? He played, and we sent the tape to T Bone, and T Bone said, “This guy’s actually a better musician than a lot of the studio guys I work with.” So we went, “We found him.”
乔尔：是啊。是有点发疯了。奥斯卡进来，说，“多数的演员，你问他们会不会玩吉他，他们会说他们玩吉他有20年了，但实际的意思是他们有一把吉他已经20年了。”奥斯卡是真的从很小的时候开始弹吉他。他演奏了，我们把磁带寄给T骨，T骨说，“这人其实比我在录音棚里合作的很多乐手还强。”所以我们心想，“我们找着了。”
Can we talk a little bit about how you write? Are you locked in a room together? 
能谈谈你们是怎么写作的吗？你们会把自己锁在同一个房间里吗？
Joel It’s always been the same. We don’t split it up. You know: “You write this scene. You write that.” There’s a lot of just sitting around talking ideas before we start writing anything. So there’s kind of a long period of that, and then we generally start at the beginning and just kind of start hammering the scenes out. We don’t outline stuff or any of that, although there are some movies where we kind of have a pretty good idea of the shape of it. Or we even know how it’s going to end when we start, and then others where we just have no idea whatsoever, and it goes where it goes. They don’t all ——
乔尔：一直都是老样子。我们不会分开，就是说不会“你写这场。你写那场”那种。我们经常就是坐一块聊想法，然后才开始写。所以那个阶段是很漫长的，然后我们一般从头开始，把场景一个一个给敲打出来。我们不写什么大纲之类的东西，虽然有些片子我们一开始就已经很清楚会是什么样子。或者我们在刚开始写的时候可能就已经知道结尾什么样了，只是其他部分完全没概念，所以就是写到哪算哪。它们不见得都——
Ethan This one actually ——
伊森：这个其实就是——
Joel Don’t get finished. They get put aside for a while, you know.
乔尔：都能写完。有时候会被搁一段时间。
Ethan The rule is: It goes where it goes, although in the case of this one, we kind of knew either at the beginning or near the very beginning, that it was going to circle back.
伊森：规则就是：写到哪算哪，不过眼下这一个我们是从一开始或者开始没多久就意识到，最终会转回来的。
Who’s typing?
谁打字？
Ethan Usually me, because I type faster, but sometimes Joel. We’ll just talk the scene back and forth, and occasionally, one of us will sit down and say, “Oh, wait, I’ve got something.” If it’s an idea that consists of a few lines, an exchange, one of us will type without consulting the other.
伊森：一般是我，我打字快些，但乔尔偶尔也会。我们就是你来我往地聊，有时候其中一个人会坐下来说，“等一下，我想到点什么。”如果这个想法里包括几句台词，一场对话，其中一个人就不商量了，直接打出来。
Are you comfortable throwing out each other’s bad ideas?
否决对方的烂想法时心里会不会有顾虑呢？
Ethan Oh, sure, yeah.
伊森：当然不会。
Joel Perfectly comfortable, very comfortable. But you know, someone asked us once how we adapt novels, and Ethan said, “Joel holds the book open by the spine, while I retype it into the computer.”
乔尔：完全不会，非常自在。但是呢，曾经有人问我们是怎么改编小说的，伊森说，“乔尔把书翻开捧在手上，我把字抄到电脑里。”
Your recent adaptations [of “True Grit” by Charles Portis and “No Country for Old Men” by Cormac McCarthy] are remarkably faithful.
你们近年的改编作品（查尔斯·波蒂斯[Charles Portis]的《大地惊雷》[True Grit]和考麦克·麦卡锡[Cormac McCarthy]的《老无所依》[No Country for Old Men]）都格外忠实原著？
Ethan Yeah, they’re really good books, man.
伊森：是的，它们都是非常好的书啊。
Joel Don’t change it if it’s not broken!
乔尔：没毛病就别改！
Has working together changed over the 30 years?
30多年来你们的合作有什么变化么？
Joel Not really.
乔尔：没有。
Have other things changed? 
别的有什么东西变了么？
Joel Well, the craft of it’s changed a lot, just because of digital technology. That’s the thing that’s been the most radical. I mean, outside of that, it’s still the same as when we were making Super 8 movies, basically. This movie was not shot digitally. We shot it on film. It’s probably ——
乔尔：工艺上变了很多，完全是因为数码技术。这是变化最剧烈的地方。我想说的是，除此之外，基本上跟我们当年拍超8电影没什么区别。这部电影不是用数码拍的。我们用了胶片。可能——
Ethan Probably the last one.
伊森：可能是最后一部。
Joel It might be the last one we ever do on film.
乔尔：这可能是我们最后一次用胶片拍电影。
Ethan “True Grit” was the last film that Roger Deakins shot on film.
伊森：《大地惊雷》是罗杰·狄金思(Roger Deakins)最后一次拍胶片。
Joel We were one of the last people to stop cutting on film. And when we stopped, people would say, “Why?” Honestly, the answer was because we couldn’t find assistants who knew how to work on film. They didn’t exist anymore. I mean, it was — I remember being in Ken Loach’s cutting room around then, and I said — he was cutting on a Steenbeck back then — and I said, “How do you do this?” And he pointed like that [points] and there was this, like, 96-year-old guy on the rewinds.
乔尔：我们是最后一批放弃胶片剪辑的人。有人问我们为什么不剪胶片了。说实话，原因是我们找不到会做胶片的助手了。这种人已经消失了。这个事吧——我记得有次去肯·洛奇(Ken Loach)的剪辑室，我当时说——那时候他是在一台施丁贝克(Steenbeck)上剪的——我说，“你是怎么做的？”他就这么指了一下[伸手一指]，那坐了个老头正在倒胶片，有96了吧。
When did you make the shift to digital editing?
你们是什么时候转向数码剪辑的？
Ethan “Intolerable Cruelty” was the first one we cut.
伊森：第一个是《真情假爱》(Intolerable Cruelty)。
Have you tried out any digital cameras yet?
你们试过什么数码摄影机了吗？
Ethan We’ve seen Roger’s tests of the Alexa, which are pretty remarkable, which is the eerie thing.
伊森：我们看过罗杰（·狄金思）在测试的Alexa，相当惊人，这是挺诡异的。
Joel I think both of us — and T Bone I would throw in here, too — are very sort of analog. I’d rather listen to vinyl than to a CD. I’d rather see a movie shot on film. I don’t think they look the same. I think you can duplicate things with digital technology, but what you end up doing is trying to recapture elements of photochemical technology that aren’t there, and they always look a little screwy.
乔尔：我觉得我们两个——我还要加上T骨——都是那种挺模拟的人。我更愿意听黑胶而不是CD唱片。我更愿意看胶片拍的电影。我不认为两者看上去是一样的。我认为你可以用数码技术去复制，但是到头来你是在重新捕捉一些不存在的光化技术元素，看上去总是怪里怪气的。
Ethan The analog texture feels so good.
伊森：模拟的质感感觉太棒了。
Joel There was a period of time when you could choose whether you were shooting in black and white or in color, and depending on the subject matter — and usually it’s sort of genre-driven and all the rest. It would be great if you could say, “This movie lends itself to digital shooting, this one, black and white,” without there being any kind of arty stigma put on it. It’s just another thing you can try.
乔尔：有段时间你是可以选择拍黑白还是彩色的，根据你的题材——通常这是由类型之类的东西决定的。如果你可以说“这部电影，就这部，很适合用数码技术拍成黑白的，”而不会因此背上什么艺术片腔调的恶名，那就很好。就是另一个选择而已。
You make movies that are released by studios and win Oscars, yet on some level, you are still not mainstream guys. It’s kind of a contradictory position.
你们是通过制片厂拍电影的，还拿了奥斯卡，然而某些方面看，你们依然不属于主流。这种处境有点矛盾。
Joel Yeah, I know. You know, we’ve talked about that ourselves. It’s weird.
乔尔：是啊，我知道。其实我们自己也是这么说的。这很怪。
Ethan Yeah. If you’ll pardon me, the indie thing might all just be a journalists’ thing. James Cameron makes huge movies that are what he wants to do, and they’re financed and released by studios. Indie is like, a term of praise that you use for us, fortunately, and some of you bash Jim Cameron for not being, although he kind of is.
伊森：是。希望你别介意，要我说独立电影这东西大概完全是记者弄出来的。詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)在拍自己想拍的大制作电影，都是片厂投资和出品的。独立这词好像就是你们拿来夸我们用的，谢天谢地，可你们中有些人会去攻击卡梅隆，说他不独立，其实他挺独立的。
But certainly there were people who were making movies outside of the studio system.
但是有些人的确是不在片厂体制内拍电影的。
Joel Maybe that’s more what it is. Because when we started out, it was just the default place because no one would give us money to make a movie. We would’ve taken it if it had been offered when we were making our first movie. We would’ve gone, “Is there somebody who will pay for this in a big Hollywood studio?” We were moving toward the indie thing, but in another way we were always hoping a big studio would release the movies. And there was a point where we looked at each other, and we went, “I guess we’re kind of the mainstream guys.” You know, when we won the Oscar.
乔尔：可能主要是这方面吧。因为我们刚开始的时候，那就是一个默认的状态，因为没人会给你钱拍电影。如果我们在拍第一部电影的时候就有人来开价，我们会接受的。我们会想，“在大制片厂里会有人愿意给钱拍这个吗？”我们当时走了一种独立的路子，但在另一方面，我们一直都希望有大片厂能发行这些电影。有那么一个瞬间，我们看着对方，然后说，“看来我们已经算是主流的。”你明白的，就是我们拿到奥斯卡的时候。
Ethan That’s true.
伊森：真是这样。
Joel We said, “How’d that happen?”
乔尔：我们说，“怎么会这样？”
Ethan We are the establishment now.
伊森：我们现在是当权派了。
Some of that is generational.
这跟你是哪代人有点关系。
Ethan I was just talking about that, actually, with our dear friend Steven Spielberg. The three of us ——
伊森：其实我前阵子刚好在跟我们亲爱的朋友史蒂芬·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)说起这个来着。我们三个——
Joel It’s true. It’s true. Because even he’s had to go: “How did I get here? Why am I the establishment guy?” — you know?
乔尔：真的，真的。因为连他都会说：“我怎么成了现在这样？我怎么成了个当权派？”
Ethan Is there a way to half-put irony quotes around the “dear friend” thing?[Laughter.]
伊森：这个“亲爱的朋友”，该打个什么样的引号能表达带点反讽的意思呢？[笑。]
Since you mention him: He and George Lucas recently talked about the state of the movie business and how frustrated they are with it. Do you have thoughts on it?
既然说到他：他和乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)最近谈了电影产业的现状，说他们非常沮丧。你们对此有什么想法？
Ethan God, I don’t know. What do you say? I don’t know. What do you say?
伊森：天啊，我不知道。你怎么说？我不知道。你怎么说？
A lot. Or nothing.
说了很多。或者啥也没说。
Ethan You know, moaning about that stuff: it might be true, and it might be a hallmark of getting old, and it might be both. You know? Isn’t that what you complain about when you get old, about how it’s harder?
伊森：你看吧，哀叹这些东西：也许是说到了实情，也许是标志着你老了，也许两者都有。对吧？人老了不就是要抱怨这些吗，说事情比以前艰难了？
It’s a recurrent theme — the crisis in film.
这是个反复出现的主题——电影的危机。
Joel It’s definitely harder now. On the other hand, I think you can exaggerate that, too, because the movie business in the United States, despite the sort of ups and downs of the economy, is still a very healthy business. And that healthy business is going to support — and it always has — a lot of niche moviemaking. More than you might expect it to, given the mentality. There’s still a lot of interesting stuff being made which is completely outside of the kind of trend that we’re describing, you know?
乔尔：现在肯定是更困难了。但另一方面，我觉得你也可能是在夸大它，因为比起经济的起落，美国的电影业始终还是很健康的一个产业。这个健康的产业能够支持很多小众电影，事实也的确是在支持。考虑到你的心态，实际上这种支持比你预想的要大。还是有很多有意思的东西在做的，完全在我们描述的这种潮流之外。
Ethan We’ve always actually been remarkably commercially successful. Not in terms of making huge amounts of money, which we rarely do, but in terms of not losing money and making modest amounts of money. We’re actually strangely consistent in that respect. We’ve been able to keep making movies because of that and also because, strangely, we’ve had studio patrons, starting from Barry Diller. Sometimes they’re establishment people who know they’re not going to make huge amounts of money, but they like your movies. They’re moviegoers, too.
伊森：我们在商业上其实一直相当成功。不是说我们能赚到很多的钱，这点我们极少能做到，但是我们不会赔钱，能赚到一定数量的钱。这方面我们的表现一直稳定的有些奇怪。我们一直能拍电影是因为有片厂的资助，最早是巴里·迪勒(Barry Diller)。有时候是一些很有权势的人物，他们知道挣不到太多的钱，但他们喜欢你的电影。他们也是看电影的人。
Joel And mostly they’re making blockbusters, but when you get in a room with them, they go, “Go off and make your movie, and I’ll do it as long as I can’t get hurt too bad.” You know? They’re completely open to that still. They don’t want to get burned.
乔尔：多数时候他们都在拍大制作，但是当你跟他们共处一室聊起来，他们会说，“去吧，去拍你的电影，我这边只要别亏太多就行。”明白吧？他们在这方面是非常大方的。他们是不想被人坑。
Ethan They don’t want to look stupid.
伊森：他们不想被人当成傻子。
Joel Nobody wants to look stupid or lose lots of money. On the other hand, they’re not afraid of doing other stuff if they can trust you to keep it reasonable. So, yeah, they kind of let us wander off without any adult supervision and do what we want.
乔尔：谁都不愿意被人当傻子，或者损失很多的钱。但另一方面，如果他们信任你，知道你能控制在合理范围内，他们并不害怕做些不一样的事。所以他们就完全放弃家长监护了，任凭我们胡闹，想干什么就干什么。