Back when Apple was an underdog, it had an easier time shrouding its product announcements in mystery and perhaps catching its competitors off guard. But now tech companies are watching every one of Apple’s moves — and scrambling to get out in front of them.
当苹果(Apple)还处于劣势时，它能更轻易地让自己的产品发布笼罩在神秘之下，也许能够让竞争对手措手不及。可现在，科技公司在紧盯着苹果的一举一动，并且争先恐后地抢在苹果前面。
Several major tech companies are cramming product announcements into this holiday-shortened workweek. Nokia and Motorola Mobility, former leaders in the mobile race who are now also-rans, have scheduled events for Wednesday at which they are likely to unveil new smartphones. And the next day, Amazon is expected to introduce new Kindle devices.
在本周这个因假日而缩短的工作周，数家大型科技公司将忙于发布新品。手机竞赛当年的领先者（现在表现平平）诺基亚(Nokia)和摩托罗拉移动(Motorola Mobility)定于周三举行活动，届时很可能发布新款智能手机。次日，亚马逊(Amazon)预期将发布新款Kindle阅读器。
Sony and Samsung, among others, got a jump on things last week with announcements of new tablets and phones at a consumer electronics conference in Berlin.
索尼(Sony)和三星(Samsung)等公司已经抢先一步。上周，它们在柏林举行的消费电子展上发布了新款平板电脑和手机。
But next week, the tech event calendar is largely blank — with the exception of an Apple news conference that is said to be scheduled for Sept. 12, where the company will reveal its latest iPhone, according to a person briefed on the company’s plans, who declined to be named because those plans had not yet been made public.
不过，科技行业下周的活动日程表基本是空白的，只有苹果据悉将在9月12日举行新闻发布会。据一名听取了苹果公司计划介绍的人士透露，届时该公司将发布最新款iPhone手机。这名人士拒绝透露姓名，原因是那些计划还没有公布。
“It does make you wonder if Apple has thrown the industry a little bit off balance and taken away a little bit of their confidence,” said Michael Gartenberg, a technology analyst at Gartner.
“这的确会让你纳闷，苹果是否已把行业搞得狼狈，打掉了别人的一些信心？”高德纳咨询公司(Gartner)技术分析师迈克尔·加藤伯格(Michael Gartenberg)说道。
In past years it was common for technology companies to deliver product news at trade shows like the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Now some major companies have scaled back their presence at those conventions and followed Apple’s lead in running their own elaborate news conferences, hoping to grab the news media’s undivided attention.
往年，技术公司常常在拉斯维加斯消费者电子产品展这样的展会上发布新产品。现在，一些大公司缩减了参展规模，转而效仿苹果的做法，自行主办精心准备的新闻发布会，以期抓住新闻媒体的专注。
Fall product introductions are important to companies seeking to generate excitement ahead of the holiday shopping season. The fall has become especially jam-packed with news in recent years as both the number of companies involved and their product lines have grown.
对于寻求在假期销售旺季之前产生轰动效应的公司而言，秋季产品发布很重要。近年来，随着参与公司数量增加和产品线扩展，秋季的产品发布出现扎堆。
This year is particularly intense because, in addition to Apple’s anticipated news, Microsoft is releasing a new version of its flagship Windows operating system, as it does roughly every three years. Along with a wave of new traditional-looking personal computers, the introduction of Windows 8 will bring with it an array of tablet computers powered by the software, including Microsoft’s own Surface tablet, due for release Oct. 26.
今年尤其紧张，原因是除了苹果预计将发布新产品外，微软(Microsoft)将发布旗舰产品Windows操作系统的新版本；这种更新大约三年一次。除了一大批传统外形的全新个人电脑外，Windows 8的问世还将带来一系列采用该系统的平板电脑，包括定于10月26日发布的微软自己的Surface平板电脑。
And later this fall, Apple is expected to unveil a smaller version of its iPad with a 7.85-inch screen.
预计苹果将于秋季晚些时候推出带有7.85英寸屏幕的缩小版iPad。
With Apple’s record of success now, the dates of its announcements are to be avoided. Products announced after Apple’s could be subject to uncomfortable comparisons or accusations of copying, if they are noticed at all.
鉴于苹果如今的成功声望，其他公司会避开它的发布会日期。在苹果之后发布的产品，要么被完全忽视，要么面临令人不安的比较，甚至被指责抄袭苹果。
“I would personally want to stay away from it unless I thought I had some killer product that I thought was going to be a devastating winner,” said Michael Mace, a former marketing executive at Apple and Palm who has a new start-up called Zekira.
“我个人会希望避开苹果的产品发布，除非我自认为拥有某款杀手级的产品，能够取得压倒性胜利，”迈克尔·梅斯(Michael Mace)说道。他曾在苹果和Palm担任营销高管，现在拥有一家名为Zekira的初创企业。
This week is especially important for Nokia, whose newer Lumia mobile devices have had tepid sales despite an aggressive marketing campaign. Accompanied by its partner Microsoft, Nokia will be showing smartphones with software that will let users swap files among phones, according to a person briefed on the company’s plans, who declined to be named because the plans were not yet public.
本周对诺基亚特别重要。尽管进行了积极的营销活动，但其Lumia非凡系列智能手机的销售并不理想。据一名听取了该公司计划介绍的人士透露，诺基亚将与合作伙伴微软一起，展示带有新软件的智能手机，能让用户在不同手机之间交换文件。由于相关计划尚未公布，这名人士拒绝透露姓名。
Tero Kuittinen, an independent mobile analyst and vice president of Alekstra, a company that helps consumers reduce their phone bills, said it was crucial for Nokia to get ahead of Apple in order to send the message that its smartphones look and behave very differently from the iPhone.
泰罗·库伊蒂宁(Tero Kuittinen)是移动通信行业的独立分析师，也是Alekstra公司副总裁，该公司协助消费者削减电话账单。他称，对诺基亚而言，赶在苹果之前发布产品至关重要，为的是发出这些的信息：诺基亚智能手机在外形和操作上都与iPhone非常不同。