WASHINGTON — James B. Comey, the recently fired F.B.I. director, said Thursday in an extraordinary Senate hearing that he believed that President Trump had clearly tried to derail an F.B.I. investigation into his former national security adviser and that the president had lied and defamed him.
华盛顿——最近被解除联邦调查局(FBI)局长职位的詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)周四在一场非比寻常的参议院听证会上表示，他认为特朗普总统显然试图干扰FBI针对其前任国家安全顾问的调查，还称总统曾撒谎和诽谤他。
Mr. Comey, no longer constrained by the formalities of a government job, offered a blunt, plain-spoken assessment of a president whose conversations unnerved him from the day they met, weeks before Mr. Trump took office. His testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee provided an unflattering back story to his abrupt dismissal and squarely raised the question of whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.
不再受政府职务条条框框约束的科米对总统做出了坦率、直言不讳的评价，与后者的谈话从他们见面那天起就让科米不安，那是在特朗普就任几周前。他在参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)所做的证词，不加修饰地讲述了他突遭解职背后的故事，引人质疑特朗普是否真的曾经试图妨碍司法公正。
Answering that falls to the Justice Department special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Comey revealed that he gave all of the memos he wrote on his interactions with the president to Mr. Mueller’s investigators, the first suggestion that prosecutors would investigate Mr. Comey’s firing last month.
回答这个问题的任务落在了司法部特别检察官罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)身上。科米透露，他已经把自己写的有关他与总统来往情况的所有备忘录交给了穆勒的调查员，这是检方将对科米上月被解除职务一事进行调查的第一个迹象。
Republicans who came to Mr. Trump’s defense argued that he had been making a suggestion, not ordering Mr. Comey to drop the investigation into the former adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Mr. Comey demurred on whether the president’s actions had amounted to a felony, but said the intent was clear: “I took it as a direction.” If Mr. Trump had had his way, Mr. Comey said, “We would have dropped an open criminal investigation.”
想为特朗普辩护的共和党人称，他是在提建议，而不是命令科米放弃对前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的调查。科米拒绝回答总统的行为是否等同于一项重罪，但他认为其中意图是显而易见的：“我认为这是一种方向。”科米还表示，如果特朗普当时得偿所愿，“我们就会放弃一项公开的刑事调查。”
In the month since he fired Mr. Comey, Mr. Trump has faced a crush of damaging news stories about the nature of their private conversations. During his testimony on Thursday, Mr. Comey revealed that he had helped feed that coverage.
自科米被解除职务一个月以来，特朗普遭遇了一大批有关双方私下谈话性质的杀伤性报道。在周四作证时，科米透露，是他给这些报道提供了素材。
Two days after Mr. Comey was ousted, The New York Times reported that Mr. Trump had asked him to pledge loyalty to him. The president then tweeted that Mr. Comey had “better hope that there are no ‘tapes’” of their meetings.
在科米被解职两天后，《纽约时报》报道特朗普曾要求科米承诺对他效忠。之后，总统发推表示，科米“最好祈求没有”他们谈话的“录音”。
That post inspired Mr. Comey, who responded by allowing a friend to read portions of a memo about his interactions with the president to The Times. Mr. Comey said Thursday that he had hoped to spur the appointment of a special counsel. He succeeded. A day after The Times revealed the contents of that memo, which described the conversation about Mr. Flynn, the Justice Department appointed Mr. Mueller to take over the investigation.
这篇推文启发了科米，他允许一位朋友把有关他与总统沟通情况的备忘录的一部分读给了时报。科米周四表示，他当时希望能推动司法部任命一位特别检察官。他成功了。在时报披露那份备忘录内容一天后——其中描述了有关弗林的对话——司法部任命穆勒接手了这项调查。
The White House has not commented on whether recordings exist. But Mr. Comey repeatedly baited Mr. Trump to produce them if they did. “Lordy, I hope there are tapes,” he said at the hearing. He added: “The president surely knows if there are tapes. If there are, my feelings aren’t hurt. Release the tapes.”
对于是否存在谈话录音，白宫没有置评。但科米多次引诱特朗普，想让他拿出录音，如果他们真的有的话。“天啊，我希望真的有录音，”他在听证会上说道。他还指出：“总统肯定知道有没有录音。如果有，不要顾及我的感受。请公布录音。”
Mr. Trump has offered a changing explanation for why Mr. Comey was fired. The original justification was Mr. Comey’s controversial handling of last year’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. The White House said that Mr. Comey had lost the support of his agents and that the F.B.I. was in disarray.
对于为何会解除科米的职务，特朗普已经换了一种说法。最初的理由是科米去年调查希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)使用私人邮件服务器一事的方式存在争议。后来白宫又表示，科米失去了手下探员的支持，联邦调查局陷入了混乱。
“Those were lies, plain and simple,” Mr. Comey said Thursday. Mr. Comey said the president had defamed him, an apparent reference to Mr. Trump’s calling him a “nut job” in a private meeting with Russian diplomats.
“那是撒谎，再简单明白不过，”科米周四说。他还表示，总统曾经诽谤他，这明显是指特朗普在与俄罗斯外交官的非公开会面时说他是个“疯子”。
Mr. Trump ultimately acknowledged that he was thinking about the Russia investigation when he fired Mr. Comey.
特朗普最后承认，在解除科米职位时他有考虑过通俄调查。
Mr. Comey confirmed that Mr. Trump had not been personally under investigation but said agents would certainly review his activities as part of a broad investigation into possible collusion between Russian operatives and Trump campaign officials. As F.B.I. director, he assured Mr. Trump several times that he was not under investigation.
科米确认特朗普个人没有受到调查，但他表示，探员们肯定会调查他的活动，这是针对俄罗斯情报人员与特朗普竞选团队官员是否勾结的更广泛调查的一部分。作为联邦调查局局长，他曾多次向特朗普保证，没有针对他个人进行调查。
In a statement after the hearing, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Marc Kasowitz, portrayed Mr. Comey as a leaker who had tried to undermine the Trump administration. He said Mr. Trump had never sought a loyalty pledge from Mr. Comey. And he flatly denied that the president had tried to end the Flynn investigation.
在听证会结束后，特朗普的私人律师马克·卡索威茨(Marc Kasowitz)发布了一份声明，将科米描绘成一名试图破坏特朗普政府的泄密者。他表示，特朗普从来不曾要求科米承诺效忠，也断然否认总统曾试图终止对弗林的调查。
“The president never, in form or substance, directed or suggested that Mr. Comey stop investigating anyone,” Mr. Kasowitz said.
“总统从来不曾要求科米停止调查任何人，不管是在形式上还是本质上，是直接还是暗示。”卡索威茨说。
The testimony nevertheless deepens the controversy surrounding Mr. Trump. It forced his supporters into the uncomfortable position of drawing a line between a president who suggests that the F.B.I. close an investigation into a friend and one who outright orders it.
不过，证词的确加深了围绕特朗普的争议。这令他的支持者陷入一种尴尬的境地，不得不在一位建议联邦调查局停止对一位朋友进行调查的总统，与一位公然下令停止调查的总统之间划清界线。
The president’s son Donald Trump Jr. weighed in on that question on Twitter during the hearing. “Knowing my father for 39 years when he ‘orders or tells’ you to do something there is no ambiguity, you will know exactly what he means,” he wrote.
在听证会进行期间，总统的儿子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr)在Twitter上介入了此事。“我认识父亲39年，如果他‘命令或要求’你做什么事，从来不含糊不清，你会知道他的确切意思，”他写道。