WASHINGTON — If there was any chance that President Donald Trump and James Comey could have avoided all-out war, it ended Sunday night.
华盛顿——如果说唐纳德·特朗普总统和詹姆斯·科米之间曾经有过避免全面开战的可能，那么在周日晚上，这种希望已经不复存在。
That was when ABC News aired an interview with Comey, the president’s fired FBI director, as he uses a publicity blitz for his searing tell-all memoir, “A Higher Loyalty,” to raise the alarm about the dangers he says Trump poses to country.
当天，ABC新闻采访了被总统解雇的联邦调查局局长科米，他为自己的这本猛料迭出、知无不言的回忆录《更高的忠诚》(A Higher Loyalty)发起了媒体宣传闪电战，以此发出警报，提醒人们在他看来特朗普对这个国家构成了怎样的危险。
While ABC aired one hour of its conversation with Comey, it had conducted a five-hour interview with him, a transcript of which was obtained by The New York Times. In it, Comey called Trump a serial liar who treated women like “meat,” and described him as a “stain” on everyone who worked for him.
ABC播出的科米访谈为时一个小时，是在对他五小时的采访基础上剪辑而成的，《纽约时报》获得了五小时的谈话纪录。其中科米说特朗普是连环骗子，他把女人当作“肉”来对待，并说对于每个为其工作的人来说，特朗普都是一个人生“污点”。
He said a salacious allegation that Trump had cavorted with prostitutes in Moscow had left him vulnerable to blackmail by the Russian government. And he asserted that the president was incinerating the country’s crucial norms and traditions like a wildfire. He compared the president to a mafia boss.
他说，关于特朗普与莫斯科妓女寻欢的火辣指控令他容易遭俄罗斯政府勒索。他声称总统就像一把野火，把这个国家的重要规范与传统付之一炬。他还把这位总统比作黑手党老大。
“Our president must embody respect and adhere to the values that are at the core of this country,” Comey told ABC’s chief anchor, George Stephanopoulos, on the program “20/20.” “The most important being truth. This president is not able to do that. He is morally unfit to be president.”
“我们的总统必须体现出对这个国家核心价值观念的尊重与坚持，”科米在《20/20》节目上对ABC主播乔治·斯特凡诺普洛斯(George Stephanopoulos)说。“最重要的是坚持真理。这位总统做不到这一点。他在道德上不适合担任总统。”
The interview with Comey and the publicity tour for his book, which is scheduled to hit bookstores Tuesday, amount to a remarkable public assault on a sitting president by someone who served at the highest levels in the government.
科米的书定于周二开始在书店进行巡回宣传，宣传活动及这次采访构成了一场万众瞩目的公开斥责，科米是对现任总统发起攻击的前政府官员中级别最高的一位。
The stakes for both men could hardly be higher. Comey seems likely to be the star witness in any obstruction of justice case that might be brought against the president by Robert Mueller, the special counsel in the sprawling Russia investigation. Trump’s legal fate, as well as his political fortunes in Washington, may depend on whether he succeeds in undermining the credibility of Comey and the law enforcement institutions he views as arrayed against him.
两个人都处在一种极为关键的时刻。在特别检察官罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)声势浩大的俄罗斯调查中，如果要对总统提起妨碍司法公正的诉讼，科米很可能是重要证人。特朗普的法律命运，以及他在华盛顿的政治命运，很可能取决于他能否成功破坏科米以及在他看来排斥他的执法机构的信誉。
While many of Trump’s critics believe that the proper remedy for his perceived transgressions is impeachment, Comey insisted that would just “let the American people off the hook.” He said the public was “duty bound” to vote Trump out of office in the next election.
许多特朗普的批评人士认为，以他的不当行径，目前来看合理的补救措施应该是弹劾。而科米坚称那只是“帮美国人民省了点麻烦”。他说，公众“有责任”在下一次选举中投票让特朗普下台。
“You cannot have, as president of the United States, someone who does not reflect the values that I believe Republicans treasure and Democrats treasure and independents treasure,” Comey said. “That is the core of this country. That’s our foundation. And so impeachment, in a way, would short-circuit that.”
“他无法反映出我心目中共和党人、民主党人乃至独立人士珍视的价值观，你不能让这样一个人来担任美国总统，”科米说。“这些价值观是这个国家的核心，是我们的基础。弹劾某种程度上是在绕开这一点。”
Comey’s intensely personal attacks — a reflection of his self-righteousness, his detractors say — are all the more combustible because they are aimed directly at a president who has said with pride on Twitter that “when someone attacks me, I always attack back...except 100x more.”
科米的反对者说，这些强烈的人身攻击表明他自以为代表了正义。攻击本身也是在煽风点火，因为它们针对的这位总统曾在Twitter上自豪地说，“只要有人攻击我，我一定回击……只不过会更猛烈100x。”
As if on cue, hours before the interview aired, Trump called Comey a “slimeball” for the second time in three days, saying in a pair of early-morning Twitter posts that he belonged in jail for what the president said were lies to Congress and leaks of classified information. In another post, Trump said Comey would go down in history as “the WORST FBI Director in history, by far!” He added that “he is not smart!”
仿佛约好了一般，就在访谈播出几个小时之前，特朗普在三天内第二次说科米是“混球”，清晨还发了两条推说科米该进监狱，因为他对国会说谎，还泄露机密信息。在另一条推中，特朗普说科米会是“史上最糟糕的联邦调查局局长！”他补充说，“他不聪明！”
In the ABC interview, Comey had kinder things to say about Trump’s brainpower, saying he did not think the president suffered from mental incompetence or was in the early stages of dementia. He said Trump struck him as a person of “above average intelligence.”
在接受ABC的采访时，科米对特朗普智力的评价比较仁慈，说他不认为总统患有精神失常或早期失智症。他说特朗普给他的印象是“智力高于平均水平”。
But Comey responded to the president’s Twitter posts with a more subtle dig of his own.
但是，科米以对自己的微妙手法回应了总统的推文。
“My book is about ethical leadership & draws on stories from my life & lessons I learned from others,” he wrote on Twitter. “3 presidents are in my book: 2 help illustrate the values at the heart of ethical leadership; 1 serves as a counterpoint.”
“我的书讲的是遵从伦理的领导，取材于自己生活中的故事和我从别人那里吸取的教训，”他在Twitter上写道。“书中出现了三位总统，其中两位有助于阐明伦理领导的核心价值，一位起到了参照作用。”
On ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday morning, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary, unloaded on Comey, calling him a “self-admitted leaker” and a liar. At the White House on Friday, she had called him a “disgraced partisan hack” and a fired employee trying desperately to “rehabilitate his tattered reputation and enrich his own bank account.”
周日上午在ABC的节目《本周》(This Week)上，白宫新闻发言人萨拉·哈克比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)炮轰科米，称他“自己承认泄密”，谎话连篇。她周五在白宫称科米是“声誉扫地的党棍”和拼命想要“恢复受损的名声，给自己敛财”的被解雇员工。
Comey was similarly unrestrained in his ABC interview, speaking with the abandon of a man who finally feels unleashed. He repeated for the cameras some of the assertions from his book that he must know will get under the president’s skin: that Trump’s hands are “average-size,” that his skin is “orange” and that he seemed shorter than Comey had imagined he would be.
在接受ABC的采访时，科米同样口无遮拦，言谈中透露着一种终得解脱的放纵。他在镜头前重复了书中的一些说法：特朗普的手“中等大小”，皮肤是“橘黄色”的，并且似乎比他想象的矮。科米肯定知道这些会惹恼特朗普。
“His tie was too long, as it always is,” Comey said. “He looked slightly orange up close with small white half-moons under his eyes, which I assume are from tanning goggles.”
“他的领带太长了，一直是这样，”科米说。“近看他的皮肤微微带橘黄色，眼睛下方有些白色的小半月形，我想是晒肤色戴眼罩留下的。”
Comey described in vivid detail the interactions he had with Trump, including meetings and phone calls about which he said he meticulously wrote down notes afterward for posterity. (In another Twitter post Sunday morning, Trump said that Comey’s “'memos’ are self serving and FAKE!”)
科米生动详细地描述了他与特朗普之间的交流，包括开会和电话。他说他事后做了精心记录以流传后世。（在周日上午的另一条推文中，特朗普说科米的“‘备忘录’自私，造假！”）
Some of the most startling assertions by Comey revolved around his first meeting with the president-elect at Trump Tower just days before the inauguration. That day, intelligence officials, including Comey, briefed the incoming president on Russia’s attempt to meddle with the election.
科米最令人震惊的一些说法来自他与候任总统在特朗普大厦的第一次会面。那时离就职典礼只剩几天，包括科米在内的情报官员向即将上任的总统简要介绍了俄罗斯企图干预选举的情况。
Comey said Trump and his aides seemed interested only in what the former FBI director called the “PR and spin” about the issue.
科米说，特朗普和助手感兴趣的似乎是他所说“公关和操作”。
“The conversation, to my surprise, moved into a PR conversation about how the Trump team would position this and what they could say about this,” Comey said. “I don’t remember any questions about, ‘So what are they going to do next; how might we stop it? What’s the future look like? Because we’ll be custodians of the security of this country.’ There was none of that.”
“令我惊讶的是，谈话变成了一场有关特朗普的团队对此要站什么立场以及他们对此有何评价的公关谈话，”科米说。“我印象里没有任何问题是关于‘那么他们接下来会怎么做；我们如何才有可能阻止它？未来是什么样的？因为我们将成为国家安全的监护人。’一次也没有。”
“It was all, ‘What can we say about what they did and how it affects the election that we just had?'” Comey said.
“问的都是，‘我们对他们的所为应该怎么说，以及这对刚刚结束的选举有什么影响？’”科米说道。
It was at the end of the meeting that Comey said he asked to speak to Trump alone to brief him on the salacious “Steele dossier,” which contains unverified allegations about Trump, including a claim that the Russian government has video recordings of him watching prostitutes urinate on one another in a Moscow hotel room in 2013.
科米表示，他在会议的最后要求与特朗普单独谈话，以向他简要汇报“斯蒂尔卷宗”，其中含有对特朗普未经证实的指控，声称俄罗斯政府持有一个录像，是特朗普2013年在莫斯科某酒店房间内观看妓女相互小便。
Comey said Trump denied the allegations that day, saying, “Do I look like a guy who needs hookers?” Weeks later, in a telephone call after the dossier was published by BuzzFeed, Trump again denied the account in graphic terms, Comey said.
科米称特朗普当天便否认了这些指控，说“我看着像个需要叫妓女的男人吗”？科米表示，几周以后，在BuzzFeed公布了卷宗之后的一通电话中，特朗普用露骨的语言再次否认了这些指控。
“There’s no way I’d let people pee on each other around me,” Trump said, according to Comey’s account. Comey said the president also raised the idea that the FBI should investigate the claim as a way of proving that it never happened. Comey said he warned Trump that doing so would add to “the narrative” that the president was under investigation.
“我不可能让人在我附近朝别人身上小便，”根据科米的描述，特朗普这样说过。科米称特朗普还提出了让FBI对这一说法进行调查，以证明其从未发生。科米说他曾警告特朗普，这么做会加强总统正接受调查的“叙事”。
Comey said in the interview that he did not know whether the episode had taken place, or whether the Russians had material they could use to blackmail Trump.
科米在采访中表示，他不清楚这个事件是否曾经发生，或俄罗斯是否拥有能够敲诈特朗普的材料。
“I think it’s possible. I don’t know,” Comey told Stephanopolous. “These are more words I never thought I’d utter about a president of the United States, but it’s possible.”
“我认为这是可能的。我不知道，”科米对斯特凡诺普洛斯说。“我从没想过我会这样说一位合众国总统，但这是可能的。”