As I listened to James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, tell the Senate Intelligence Committee about his personal meetings and phone calls with President Trump, I was reminded of something: the experience of a woman being harassed by her powerful, predatory boss. There was precisely that sinister air of coercion, of an employee helpless to avoid unsavory contact with an employer who is trying to grab what he wants.
听着联邦调查局前局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)向参议院情报委员会汇报他与特朗普总统私下里的会议和电话时，让我联想起一个女人被有权有势、侵犯成性的老板骚扰的样子。这种险恶的胁迫气息是一模一样的——一个雇员无助地想要避免同雇主之间不愉快的接触，而这位雇主正试图抓住任何他想抓住的东西。
After reading Mr. Comey’s earlier statement, I tweeted about this Wednesday night, and immediately heard from other women who had seen that narrative emerge. How recognizable it was that Mr. Comey was “stunned” to find himself in these potentially compromising positions. His incredulity, mixed with President Trump’s circling attempts to get his way, were poignant. For a woman who has spent a lifetime wrestling with situations where men have power they can abuse, this was disturbingly familiar.
读过科米早些时候的发言，我在本周三晚上发推文表达了这个观点，并且很快看到其他女性也认为这种说法有道理。似曾相识的一幕中，科米“目瞪口呆”地发现自己处于可能很难堪的境地。他感到难以置信，与此同时，特朗普总统又在不停寻找机会，想要强人所难，这种感觉非常令人痛苦。对于一个毕生都在同男人可以滥用权力的场景作斗争的女人来说，这种情景显得如此熟悉，真是令人不安。
On Jan. 27, Mr. Comey received a last-minute dinner invitation from the president, and then learned it would be “just the two of us.” On Thursday, Mr. Comey revealed that he had had to break a date with his wife in order to dine with Mr. Trump. Already, something about this “setup” made him “uneasy.”
1月27日，科米收到来自总统的临时晚餐邀请，然后获悉晚餐上“只有我们两个人”。周四，科米透露，为了和特朗普共进晚餐，他不得不推掉和妻子的约会。不过，对方的这种“布置”使他感到“不安”。
The central business of this intimate dinner was Mr. Trump’s insistence: “I need loyalty, I expect loyalty.” Mr. Comey immediately recognized that this was a press for something he did not want to give. He froze: “I didn’t move, speak, or change my facial expression in any way during the awkward silence that followed.”
这次亲密晚餐上的核心事务就是特朗普坚持要求：“我需要忠诚，我期待忠诚。”科米马上意识到，这是在逼他给予某种他不想给的东西。他哑口无言：“在随之而来的尴尬沉默中，我一动也没有动，没有说话，也没有改变自己的表情。”
That reaction — the choice of stillness, responses calculated to neither encourage nor offend that characterized so many of his dealings with Mr. Trump — is so relatable for any woman. During his testimony, Mr. Comey was asked why he had not responded more robustly, why he had not told Mr. Trump that he, the president, was acting inappropriately or reported his behavior immediately to others in authority.
选择静止不动，希望自己的反应既不鼓励也不冒犯对方——科米和特朗普打交道的过程中，有很多次都是这做的——这样的反应对任何女人来说都不陌生。在证词中，科米被问及当时为什么没有做出更坚定的回应，为什么他没有告诉特朗普：总统此时的行为是不妥当的，或者立即向当局其他人士汇报特朗普的行为。
Mr. Comey expressed regret that he had not been “stronger” about it, but explained that it was all he could do to focus on not saying the wrong thing. In other words, he wanted to avoid granting any favor while avoiding the risk of direct confrontation — a problem so deeply resonant for women.
科米表示遗憾，他当时并没有“更加强硬一些”，但他解释说，他当时能做的只是集中精神，避免说错话。换句话说，他希望能够避免向对方表示任何好感，同时又要避免直接对抗的风险——这个问题也和女人们太有共鸣了。
During that interminable, awkward dinner, Mr. Comey struggled to convince Mr. Trump of the danger of “blurring” boundaries. But Mr. Trump was not deterred and returned to the subject of the loyalty he must have. There you hear the eternal voice of the predatory seducer: the man who knows how hard he can make it for a woman to refuse his needs.
在这场漫长而尴尬的晚餐过程中，科米努力让特朗普相信“模糊”界限的危险。但特朗普完全没有被吓住，而是回到了他必须得到忠诚这个主题。在这儿，你仿佛可以听到侵犯成性的诱惑者那永恒的声音：这个男人可知道，如果一个女人拒绝自己的要求，他可以让她的日子变得多么难捱。
Mr. Comey tried to wriggle out of the trap being set for him. He offered his “honesty,” hoping this would appease his insatiable host. Mr. Trump countered with a demand for “honest loyalty.” Mr. Comey acquiesced. Yet as he documented this “very awkward conversation,” his concession of this phrase troubled him. He hoped he had not been misunderstood by the president.
科米试图摆脱为自己设置的陷阱。他献上了自己的“诚实”，希望能安抚面前这位贪得无厌的主人。特朗普的回答则是继续要求“诚实的忠诚”。科米默认了。然而，当他把这次“非常尴尬的谈话”记录下来时，在这个短语上做出的让步令他感到困扰。他希望自己没有被总统误解。
The victim of sexual harassment is constantly haunted by the idea that she said or did something that gave her persecutor encouragement. Serial harassers, of course, have an intuitive sense of this, and are skilled at manipulating and exploiting it.
性骚扰的受害者经常会有这样的困惑：自己是不是说了什么、或者做了什么，让迫害自己的人感觉受了鼓励。当然，骚扰惯犯对此都有敏锐的直觉，也擅长操纵和利用受害者的困惑。
Mr. Comey, you are not alone. How many of us have played over and over in our minds an encounter that suddenly took a creepy, coercive turn? What did I say? Were my signals clear? Did I do something ambiguous? Did I say something compromising?
科米先生，你不是一个人。我们当中有无数人曾在自己的头脑中一遍又一遍地回忆，一次邂逅怎么就突然变得令人发毛，变成了一种强迫？我说了什么吗？我释放的信号是否清晰？我做过什么含糊暧昧的事情吗？我说过什么表示妥协的话吗？
At a White House ceremony on Jan. 22, Mr. Comey reportedly tried to blend in with the curtains, so that he would not be noticed by the president. Mr. Trump called to him and pulled him, unwilling, into a hug. What woman has not tried to remain invisible from an unwelcome pursuer’s attentions?
据报道，在1月22日的一次白宫仪式上，科米试图让自己和窗帘融为一体，不被总统注意到。特朗普却叫出他的名字，把他拉到身边，让科米不情愿地和他拥抱了一下。遇到不受欢迎的追求者，女人不也是千方百计地想让自己隐形吗？
To this series of bizarre interactions, in which he faced escalating pressure, Mr. Comey reacted with rising anxiety and distress. Time after time, Mr. Trump reverted to his questionable agenda, and Mr. Comey, at each pass, tried to parry the president’s unwanted advances.
这一系列奇怪的互动让科米觉得压力越来越大，因此他的焦虑和苦恼也增加了。特朗普一次次重提他那可疑的议程，科米每一次都试图回避总统不受欢迎的主动姿态。
This dynamic with the president became so disturbing to Mr. Comey that, after an Oval Office meeting in February, he implored the attorney general, Jeff Sessions, “to prevent any future direct communication between the president and me.” Mr. Comey did not want to be left alone with his boss again. We’ve been there, Jim.
与总统关系的发展令科米感到非常不安，因此2月份在椭圆形办公室的一次会议之后，他恳请司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)“防止我与总统在未来出现任何直接沟通。”科米再也不想和自己的老板单独相处了。这种滋味我们女人也尝过，吉姆。
In their final exchange, on April 11, Mr. Trump told the F.B.I. director, “I have been very loyal to you, very loyal; we had that thing you know.” On May 9, having rebuffed the president, Mr. Comey was fired.
4月11日，在两人的最后交流中，特朗普告诉联邦调查局局长，“我一直对你非常忠诚，非常忠诚；你知道，我们之间有过那种东西。”5月9日，断然拒绝总统之后，科米被解职。
“We had that thing.” Once more, the seducer asserts a shared intimacy that was not really there, attempting to ensnare his victim with an imputed complicity.
“我们之间有过那种东西。”再一次，诱惑者主张一种并不真正存在的共同亲密关系，企图制造一种无中生有的共谋，让自己的受害者落入圈套。
In the infamous “Access Hollywood” tape, Mr. Trump said of any woman he wanted: “I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.” And he added: “Grab ’em by the pussy. You can do anything.” With the power of the presidency at his disposal, Mr. Trump thought that he could use the psychology of coercive seduction on the nation’s chief law enforcement officer.
在臭名昭著的《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)录音带中，特朗普说，对于他想得到的任何一个女人：“我只是开始亲吻她们。就像是吸铁石一般。只管去亲。我可不会去等待。只要你是个名人，她们就会让你这么做。你什么都可以做。”他补充说：“抓住她们的下体。你什么都可以做。”由于总统大权在手，特朗普认为他可以把这种强制诱惑的心理学用在这个国家的首席执法官员身上。
Victims of sexual harassment often face skepticism, doubts and accusations when they tell their story. That’s part of the predator’s power. But I’m here to tell James Comey, and all the women and men who have suffered at the hands of predators, I believe you.
性骚扰的受害者在讲出自己的故事时，经常会面临怀疑、疑虑和指责。这也是侵犯者的威力的一部分。但是，我要在这里告诉詹姆斯·科米，以及那些在侵犯者手中受苦的男男女女：我相信你们。