WASHINGTON — President Trump asked the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, to shut down the federal investigation into Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, in an Oval Office meeting in February, according to a memo Mr. Comey wrote shortly after the meeting.
华盛顿——今年2月在椭圆形办公室的一次会面中，特朗普总统让时任FBI局长的詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)终止对前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的调查，这件事不久后被科米写在了一份备忘录中。
“I hope you can let this go,” the president told Comey, according to the memo.
这份备忘录显示，特朗普告诉科米，“我希望你能把这件事放下。”
The existence of Trump’s request is the clearest evidence that the president has tried to directly influence the Justice Department and FBI investigation into links between Trump’s associates and Russia.
特朗普该要求的存在，是总统试图对司法部和联邦调查局就其助手与俄罗斯关系所做调查施加影响的最明显证据。
Comey wrote the memo detailing his conversation with the president immediately after the meeting, which took place the day after Flynn resigned, according to two people who read the memo. The memo was part of a paper trail Comey created documenting what he perceived as the president’s improper efforts to influence an ongoing investigation. An FBI agent’s contemporaneous notes are widely held up in court as credible evidence of conversations.
据两名看过这份备忘录的人说，科米和特朗普的那次会面是在弗林辞职的第二天进行的，会议结束后，科米立即写下这份备忘录，详细记录该谈话。这份备忘录是科米创建的白纸黑字之一，用于记录他觉得总统影响调查的不当之举。联邦调查局的一名特工也提供了一些同期记录，被法庭广为当作那些交谈的可信证据。
Comey shared the existence of the memo with senior FBI officials and close associates. The New York Times has not viewed a copy of the memo, which is unclassified, but one of Comey’s associates read parts of the memo to a Times reporter.
科米告知了联邦调查局一些高级官员和亲信这份备忘录的存在。它不是保密文件，《纽约时报》尚未看到这份备忘录的副本，但是科米的一位助手把备忘录部分内容念给了时报的一位记者听。
“I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go,” Trump told Comey, according to the memo. “He is a good guy. I hope you can let this go.”
备忘录写道，特朗普告诉科米，“希望你能看清状况，不要再追究这件事，放过弗林。弗林是个好人，我希望你能把这件事放下。”
Trump told Comey that Flynn had done nothing wrong, according to the memo.
备忘录显示，特朗普告诉科米，弗林没有做错什么事。
Comey did not say anything to Trump about curtailing the investigation, only replying: “I agree he is a good guy.”
科米没有对特朗普说要中断调查，只回答说：“我同意他是个好人。”
In a statement, the White House denied the version of events in the memo.
在一份声明中，白宫否认了这份备忘录中的说法。
“While the president has repeatedly expressed his view that Gen. Flynn is a decent man who served and protected our country, the president has never asked Mr. Comey or anyone else to end any investigation, including any investigation involving Gen. Flynn,” the statement said. “The president has the utmost respect for our law enforcement agencies, and all investigations. This is not a truthful or accurate portrayal of the conversation between the president and Mr. Comey.”
“虽然总统多次表示，弗林将军是一个为国效劳、保卫国家的正派人，但总统从来没有要求科米或其他任何人终止任何调查，包括涉及弗林将军的调查，”该声明说。“总统对我们的执法机关和所有的调查表示了极大的尊重。这份备忘录没有真实、准确地记录总统和科米先生之间的交谈。”
In testimony to the Senate last week, the acting FBI director, Andrew McCabe, said, “There has been no effort to impede our investigation to date.”
FBI代理局长安德鲁·麦凯布(Andrew McCabe)上周在参议院的证词中说：“迄今为止，我们的调查没有遇到任何阻力。”
A spokesman for the FBI declined to comment.
FBI的发言人拒绝就此置评。
Comey created similar memos — including some that are classified — about every phone call and meeting he had with the president, the two people said. It is unclear whether Comey told the Justice Department about the conversation or his memos.
那两名知情者说，科米每次和总统通过电话或者见面后，就会写类似的备忘录——其中包括一些机密备忘录。目前还不清楚科米是否对司法部谈到过这些备忘录。
Trump fired Comey last week. Trump administration officials have provided multiple, conflicting accounts of the reasoning behind Comey’s dismissal. Trump said in a television interview that one of the reasons was because he believed “this Russia thing” was a “made-up story.”
特朗普上周炒掉了科米。在谈及解职原因的时候，特朗普的班底给出了几种互相矛盾的说法。特朗普在一个电视采访中说，原因之一是他认为“通俄”是“捏造的故事”。
The Feb. 14 meeting took place just a day after Flynn was forced out of his job after it was revealed he had lied to Vice President Mike Pence about the nature of phone conversations he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States.
2月14日的那次会面，是弗林被迫离职的第二天进行的。弗林之前曾对副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)撒谎，没有如实汇报他与俄罗斯驻美大使通电话的性质，结果被爆了光。
Despite the conversation between Trump and Comey, the investigation of Flynn has proceeded. In Virginia, a federal grand jury has issued subpoenas in recent weeks for records related to Flynn. Part of the Flynn investigation is centered on his financial ties to Russia and Turkey.
尽管特朗普和科米有了这次谈话，对弗林的调查依然在继续。在弗吉尼亚州，一个联邦大陪审团近几周里发出传票，要获取和弗林有关的记录。弗林与俄罗斯和土耳其的财务关系是该案调查的核心之一。
Comey had been in the Oval Office that day with other senior national security officials for a terrorism threat briefing. When the meeting ended, Trump told those present — including Pence and Attorney General Jeff Sessions — to leave the room except for Comey.
科米当天和其他高级国家安全官员一起，在椭圆形办公室做了一个关于恐怖主义威胁的汇报。汇报结束的时候，特朗普让其他人——包括彭斯和司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)先离开，留下科米。
Alone in the Oval Office, Trump began the discussion by condemning leaks to the news media, saying that Comey should consider putting reporters in prison for publishing classified information, according to one of Comey’s associates.
科米的一位助手说，当时只留下他们两个人在椭圆形办公室里，特朗普一开口就谴责新闻媒体走漏消息，说科米应该考虑把泄露机密信息的记者关进监狱。
Trump then turned the discussion to Flynn.
特朗普然后把话题转到了弗林身上。
After writing up a memo that outlined the meeting, Comey shared it with senior FBI officials. Comey and his aides perceived Trump’s comments as an effort to influence the investigation, but they decided that they would try to keep the conversation secret — even from the FBI agents working on the Russia investigation — so the details of the conversation would not affect the investigation.
科米在写完概述这次会面的备忘录之后，把它交给了FBI高级官员传阅。科米及其助手认为，特朗普说这番话是想影响调查，但他们决定对这次交谈保密——就连参与“通俄”案调查的FBI特工也不告诉——以免谈话的细节影响调查。
The Oval Office meeting occurred a little more than two weeks after Trump summoned Comey to the White House for a lengthy, one-on-one dinner in the residence. At that dinner, on Jan. 27, Trump asked Comey at least two times for a pledge of loyalty — which Comey declined, according to one of Comey’s associates.
在特朗普椭圆办公室会面的两周多之前，特朗普曾把科米召到白宫单独吃了一顿很长的晚餐。当时是1月27日，根据科米的一位手下的说法，特朗普在晚餐上至少两次要求科米表忠心——被科米拒绝了。
In a Twitter posting on Friday, Trump said that “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!”
特朗普上周五在Twitter帖子中表示：“詹姆斯·科米在开始向新闻界泄露信息之前，最好是希望我们的交谈没有‘录音’！”
After the meeting, Comey’s associates did not believe there was any way to corroborate Trump’s statements. But Trump’s suggestion last week that he was keeping tapes has made them wonder whether there are tapes that back up Comey’s account.
在那次会面后，科米的手下认为没有什么办法来证实特朗普的声明。但是特朗普上周暗示他保留了录音带之后，他们怀疑可能会有录音带来支持科米的说法。
The Jan. 27 dinner came a day after White House officials learned that Flynn had been interviewed by FBI agents about his phone calls with the Russian ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak. On Jan. 26, Acting Attorney General Sally Q. Yates told the White House counsel about the interview, and said Flynn could be subject to blackmail by the Russians because they knew he had lied about the content of the calls.
1月27日那次晚餐的前一天，白宫官员了解到，FBI特工正在调查弗林和俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)的通话情况。因为1月26日，代理司法部长莎莉·Q·耶茨(Sally Q. Yates)告知了白宫法律顾问该调查的情况，并表示弗林有可能被俄罗斯人勒索，因为他们知道弗林在电话内容上撒了谎。