WASHINGTON — The day after President Donald Trump asked James B. Comey, the FBI director, to end an investigation into his former national security adviser, Comey confronted Attorney General Jeff Sessions and said he did not want to be left alone again with the president, according to current and former law enforcement officials.
华盛顿——根据若干现任和前任执法部门人员所说，唐纳德·特朗普总统要求联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)结束对自己的前国家安全顾问进行的调查翌日，科米找到司法部部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)，要求不再与总统单独见面。
Comey believed Sessions should protect the FBI from White House influence, the officials said, and pulled him aside after a meeting in February to tell him that private interactions between the FBI director and the president were inappropriate. But Sessions could not guarantee that the president would not try to talk to Comey alone again, the officials said.
这些官员说，科米认为塞申斯应当保护联邦调查局免受白宫的影响，在二月的一次会议之后，他把塞申斯拉到一边，对后者表示，联邦调查局局长和总统之间的私人互动是不妥当的。这些官员还说，塞申斯当时表示，自己不能保证总统下次不会再想单独和科米交谈。
Comey did not reveal, however, what had so unnerved him about his Oval Office meeting with the president: Trump’s request that the FBI director end the investigation into the former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, who had just been fired. By the time Trump fired Comey last month, Comey had disclosed the meeting to a few of his closest advisers but nobody at the Justice Department, according to the officials, who did not want to be identified discussing Comey’s interactions with Trump and Sessions.
不过科米并没有透露和总统在椭圆形办公室会面为何令他感到如此不安：原因就是特朗普在会面中要求他结束对刚刚被解雇的前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的调查。上个月，特朗普解雇科米的时候，科米向身边几位最亲近的顾问透露了这次会面，但是根据这些执法官员的说法，科米并没有向司法部透露这次会面。这些官员在谈论科米与特朗普和塞申斯的互动时不希望透露姓名。
Comey will be the center of attention on Thursday during testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, where he is expected to be quizzed intensely about his interactions with Trump and why he decided to keep secret the president’s request to end the Flynn investigation.
科米将于周四成为众人瞩目的焦点，届时他将在参议院情报委员会作证，接受委员们激烈的盘问，解释他与特朗普之间的互动，以及他为何决定不公布总统要求他结束对弗林的调查一事。
Comey’s unwillingness to be alone with the president reflected how deeply Comey distrusted Trump, who Comey believed was trying to undermine the FBI’s independence as it conducted a highly sensitive investigation into links between Trump’s associates and Russia, the officials said. By comparison, Comey met alone at least twice with President Barack Obama.
这些官员说，科米不愿同总统单独见面，反映了他对特朗普极不信任，认为特朗普是在试图破坏联邦调查局的独立性，因为联邦调查局正在对特朗普的手下和俄罗斯之间的联系展开极为敏感的调查。相比之下，科米同奥巴马总统至少单独会面过两次。
A spokesman for the FBI declined to comment on Comey’s request. A Justice Department spokesman, Ian Prior, said that “the attorney general doesn’t believe it’s appropriate to respond to media inquiries on matters that may be related to ongoing investigations.”
联邦调查局的发言人拒绝对科米的要求置评。司法部发言人伊恩·普赖尔(Ian Prior)表示，“司法部长认为，关于可能同进行中的调查相关的事宜，回答传媒的问题是不妥的。”
The Justice Department typically walls off the White House from criminal investigations to avoid even the appearance of political meddling in law enforcement. But Trump has repeatedly interjected himself in law enforcement matters, and never more dramatically than in his private meetings with Comey.
司法部通常会让白宫避免接触刑事调查，以避免执法过程中出现政治干预的任何迹象。但是，特朗普已经反复插手执法事务，最严重的莫过于同科米私下里的几次见面。