ROME — In Finland, militia groups are patrolling small towns housing asylum seekers in the name of protecting white Finnish women. In Germany, far-right protesters rampaged through Leipzig on Monday, vandalizing buildings in an “anti-Islamization” demonstration. In Italy on Tuesday, an anti-immigration regional government approved the text of a law making it difficult to construct new mosques as Muslim refugees are settled in the area.
罗马——在芬兰，民兵组织以保护芬兰白人女性的名义，在有庇护寻求者居住的小镇里巡逻。在德国，极右翼抗议者本周一在莱比锡举行“反伊斯兰化”示威，在骚乱中打砸了一些建筑物。本周二，在意大利，一个反移民的地区政府批准了一项法律，使得定居该地区的穆斯林难民难于修建新的清真寺。
Across Europe, the migrant crisis that has engulfed the Continent since the summer is provoking new levels of public anxiety after the New Year’s Eve sexual assaults in Cologne, Germany, where witnesses and the police described predatory gangs of mostly foreign men, including some refugees, groping and robbing young women. The Cologne police are also investigating allegations of rape.
在德国科隆，一些伺机作案的团伙在除夕夜对年轻女性进行性侵和抢劫，据目击者和警方所述，这些团伙主要由外国男子组成，其中包括一些难民；此事发生后，去年夏天席卷欧洲大陆的移民危机在欧洲各地引发的焦虑感又上升到了一个新的台阶。科隆警方目前还在调查一些强奸指控。
While the police say the assaults in Cologne were carried out by hundreds of men, even that is a narrow sliver of the more than one million asylum seekers who entered Europe last year. Still, the anxieties provoked by the Cologne attacks quickly spread as reports emerged of similar New Year’s Eve assaults in other German cities, as well as in Finland and Austria.
警方说科隆事件有数以百计的男子参与，这个数字只是去年涌入欧洲的逾百万庇护寻求者中的极少数。不过，科隆事件引发了焦虑情绪的迅速蔓延，有报道称，在除夕夜，德国其他城市、芬兰和奥地利也出现了类似的袭击事件。
While the details in some of those reports are sketchy, and none approach what happened in Cologne, they have touched an exceptionally raw nerve as European societies face the challenge of integrating and acculturating the asylum seekers, most of them Muslims, and a majority of those single men.
虽然其中一些报道在细节上很粗略，而且全部都没有提到科隆发生的状况，它们却已经触及一个不同寻常的痛处，对于如何让庇护寻求者融入这里，适应欧洲文化，欧洲社会正面临着挑战。寻求庇护的人中大多数是穆斯林，并且主要是单身男人。
Far-right political parties, which have long invoked hoary stereotypes of dark-skinned foreigners threatening European identity and security, have pounced on the reports, having already capitalized on the inability of the European Union to secure its external borders while efficiently managing the movement of migrants inside the bloc.
极右翼政党对这样的报道大做文章。他们长期宣扬传统成见，声称深肤色的外国人会威胁欧洲的身份和安全，而且欧盟在确保外围边境安全，同时有效地管理移民在内部移动时表现出来的无能，也被他们利用了起来。
“This has been the elephant in the room that no one is prepared to acknowledge — that the great fear is the fear of Islam,” said Alexander Betts, director of the Refugee Studies Center at Oxford. He argued that most mainstream politicians had failed to directly address these public fears or to provide enough clarity in the migration debate, creating a vacuum that anti-immigrant leaders have rushed to fill.
“现在就是人人装作没看见房间里有头大象，即：巨大的恐惧来自于对伊斯兰教的恐惧，”牛津难民研究中心(Refugee Studies Center)的主管亚历山大·贝茨(Alexander Betts)说。他认为，目前最主流的政界人士既未能直面公众的这种恐惧感，也没有在移民辩论中提供足够清晰的条理，因此形成了一个真空，让反移民的领导者纷纷上前填补。
Mr. Betts warned that unless political leaders could quickly articulate a nuanced argument for migration — one that confronts fears about security and religious differences, especially in the aftermath of the Nov. 13 terrorist attacks in Paris — public support for granting asylum to refugees could collapse. “To have attacks in Germany that are of a sexual nature perpetuated by men ostensibly of Muslim origin is symbolically devastating for a public commitment to asylum,” he said.
贝茨警告说，对于移民，如果政治领导人不能迅速给出一个精妙的说法——可以直面人们关于安全和宗教分歧的担忧，尤其是在巴黎11月13日的恐怖袭击之后——公众对庇护他们的支持就有可能出现崩溃。“德国发生的性侵袭击，是由看上去具有穆斯林特征的男子所为，从象征意义上说，这给公众对庇护的支持带来了毁灭性的冲击，”他说。
The public mood has been shifting for weeks and is already influencing policy. European news outlets reported on Tuesday that since Jan. 1, Germany had tightened screening of migrants trying to enter the country from Austria. Many other European countries erected fences or border checkpoints last year to block or divert the flow of migrants — moves that threatened to destroy Europe’s system of open internal borders. In Denmark, the government is even moving to confiscate valuables from arriving migrants to defray the cost of accommodating them.
数周之前，公众情绪开始转向，现在已经对政策产生了影响。欧洲新闻媒体本周二报道，自1月1日起，德国已经收紧了对试图从奥地利进入该国的移民的筛选。其他很多欧洲国家在去年就设置了围栏或边境检查站，以阻止或分流移民——这种举动，很有可能会摧毁欧洲内部边境的开放机制。在丹麦，政府甚至开始没收移民的贵重物品，以支付容留他们的费用。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has been Europe’s most outspoken advocate of accepting refugees, emphasizing the humanitarian and moral imperative of doing so while seeking to rally ordinary Germans with her slogan, “We Can Do It!” But Germany is bearing the brunt of the new arrivals, and critics have accused Ms. Merkel of failing to clearly articulate a plan for an integration process that is likely to last many years.
在接受难民问题上，德国总理默克尔一直是欧洲最直言不讳的倡导者，她强调这么做在人道主义和道德上的紧迫性，同时希望她的“我们能做到！”口号把普通德国人团结起来，但德国如今首当其冲地受到新来者的影响，批评者指责默克尔未能提供一个计划，清楚描述可能会持续很多年的融合进程。
“It seems as though the time has come for a broad debate over Germany’s future — and Merkel’s mantra of ‘We Can Do It’ is no longer enough to suppress it,” wrote Der Spiegel, the German newsmagazine, which described the police’s failure to stop the assaults in Cologne as “symbolic of the state’s powerlessness in the face of chaos and crime.”
“对德国的未来进行广泛辩论的时候好像已经到来——默克尔“我们能做到”的口号无法再压制这种辩论，”德国新闻杂志《明镜》(Der Spiegel)写道。它还说，警方没有能阻止科隆事件“象征了这个国家在面对混乱和犯罪时的无力感”。
At the same time, polls show that far-right parties are gaining support in France, Germany and elsewhere.
与此同时，调查显示，在法国、德国等国家，极右翼政党获得的支持正在增加。
In Austria, Herbert Kickl, general secretary of the right-wing Freedom Party, has called for an immediate halt to new asylum applications, while other party members have called for closing Austria’s borders in the aftermath of the Cologne attacks. Many Austrians who are very wary of the Freedom Party’s agenda concede that the influx of refugees has stirred an undercurrent of fear, even though the country has seen little violence.
在奥地利，右翼党派自由党(Freedom Party)总干事赫伯特·克科(Herbert Kickl)已经呼吁过立即停止接受新的庇护申请，在科隆事件发生之后，该党其他成员要求关闭奥地利边境。很多奥地利人虽然对自由党的议程非常谨慎，但也承认难民的涌入已经引发了恐惧的潜流，尽管该国几乎没有出现暴力事件。
“There’s a split in society — in our editorial office, at the lunch table, in circles of friends,” said Florian Klenk, editor in chief of Falter, a left-leaning weekly based in Vienna. “It is a polarization, but we have little violence.”
“这是社会中的一道裂痕——在我们的编辑部里，在午餐桌上，在朋友圈子里，”维也纳左翼周刊《Falter》的主编弗洛里安·克伦克(Florian Klenk)说。“这是一种两极分化，但我们这里几乎没有发生过暴力事件。”
Even so, Peter Hacker, Vienna’s appointed refugee coordinator, said the city had developed strategies to coordinate waves of migrants last September. “We decided then that we’d have a maximum visible presence of police in the places, like train stations, where migrants were,” he said.
即便如此，维也纳任命的难民协调员彼得·赫克尔(Peter Hacker)表示，去年9月，该市制定了协调难民潮的策略。“当时我们决定，在火车站这种移民聚集的地方，我们要部署最高可见度的警力存在，”他说。