It was late Friday afternoon before Labor Day weekend when Fernando Palazuelo reached the head of the line at the tax collection window of the treasurer’s office in Wayne County, Mich.
时值周五下午，马上就要到劳动节的长周末了，费尔南多·帕拉苏埃洛(Fernando Palazuelo)在密歇根州韦恩县(Wayne County)财政办公室的收税窗口前，排到了队伍的最前端。
He had traveled 3,700 miles from Lima, Peru, to make a simple request. “I am interested in buying the Packard plant,” he said. “And I want to speak to the man in charge.”
他从3700英里（约合5955公里）以外的秘鲁利马(Lima)远道而来，只为提出一个简单的要求。“我有兴趣买下帕卡德工厂(Packard Plant)，”他说，“我想见管事的人。”
A few minutes later, he was ushered in to see Raymond Wojtowicz, the 84-year-old county treasurer responsible for tens of thousands of foreclosed properties in the bankrupt city of Detroit.
几分钟后，他在工作人员的引导下，见到了84岁的县财长雷蒙德·武伊托维奇(Raymond Wojtowicz)。后者掌管着底特律这座破产城市中数以万计的止赎物业。
And with that, Mr. Palazuelo, a developer of broken-down buildings from Europe to South America, was on his way to buying the biggest, most iconic eyesore in this city — the abandoned Packard Motor Car plant.
由此一来，作为专门开发破损建筑、业务范围从欧洲延伸到南美洲的商人，帕拉苏埃洛正在酝酿一笔新的交易：将底特律人心目中最大、也是最具象征意义的“眼中钉”——废弃的帕卡德汽车工厂收入囊中。
There are risky bets in commercial real estate, and then there is the Packard — vacant, vandalized and deteriorating for decades.
商业地产市场中存在高风险的赌博，而帕卡德工厂几十年来一直空置在那，遭到肆意破坏，变得日益破败。
Yet Mr. Palazuelo’s acquisition of the sprawling, 40-acre Packard site on Dec. 31 is part of the unlikely land rush occurring in Detroit, where investors from around the world are scrambling to buy vacant properties at the bottom of a historically distressed market.
不过，帕拉苏埃洛仍在12月31日（2013年——译注）达成了收购交易，买下了帕卡德工厂这个占地40英亩（约合16.1872万平方米）的烂摊子。这笔交易，是底特律正在上演的一场匪夷所思的“土地热”的一个缩影，全世界的投资者都涌向了这个空前窘迫的市场，抢购空置的物业。
Detroit’s empty buildings have lured buyers from all over, like the Chinese firm that last year bought two office towers from a Florida company, and the individual investors from Europe and Asia who have scooped up derelict homes for less than $1,000 each.
底特律的空楼吸引了世界各地的买家。比如，去年就有个中国公司从一家佛罗里达公司处购买了两栋办公大楼；欧洲和亚洲的个人投资者也来成批收购无主住宅，每套的“批发价”不足1000美元（约合人民币6067元）。
But no deal has captured the city’s attention like Mr. Palazuelo’s purchase of the Packard.
不过它们都不能同帕拉苏埃洛收购帕卡德工厂的交易相比，后者在底特律引起了前所未有的关注。
He won a county-run auction to buy the dilapidated plant for $405,000 — less than 15 cents a square foot for a trash-strewn, graffiti-covered hulk of industrial decay in the heart of a profoundly blighted neighborhood.
他在县政府举办的拍卖会竞拍成功，以40.5万美元（约合人民币25万元）——也即每平方英尺不足15美分（约合每平方米人民币10元）的价格，在一个严重荒废的社区中心，买下了这座遍地垃圾、满墙涂鸦的废弃工厂。
He was not the first to try to acquire it. Two other potential buyers, an Illinois developer and a Texas doctor, submitted higher bids, but failed to come up with the money.
他不是第一个试图买下帕卡德工厂的人。还有两个潜在买家的出价更高，一个是伊利诺伊州的开发商，另一个在德克萨斯州行医，但他们都没有拿出钱来。
But Mr. Palazuelo’s $405,000 is now in the county treasury, and is nonrefundable. It represents a small down payment on the $350 million he says he needs over the next 10 years to transform the Packard into a successful, mixed-use development.
不过，帕拉苏埃洛的40.5万美元现在已经归了县财政部，而且不能退还。它相当于一笔小额首付，帕拉苏埃洛说，接下来的十年里，他将投入3.5亿美元（约合人民币21亿元），将帕卡德工厂改造成一个成功的多用途开发项目。
The odds against him do not faze Mr. Palazuelo, who is trying to raise capital for the project from business contacts in the United States, Europe and South America.
帕拉苏埃洛并没有被风险所困，他正着力于从美国、欧洲和南美洲的业务伙伴那里筹资。
“I am a real estate developer, but a very special one,” he said. “I have always been entering cities that have problems in the past.”
“我是个房地产开发商，但我这个人比较特殊，”他说，“我喜欢进驻历史上有问题的城市。”
His ambition to own the plant surprised even Mr. Wojtowicz, who in 37 years as county treasurer had heard his share of wild ideas for redeveloping the ruins of Detroit.
就连当了37年县财长的武伊托维奇，也为他收购帕卡德工厂的雄心感到吃惊。帕拉苏埃洛曾在他面前就底特律废楼的再开发问题，谈过自己的大胆想法。
“It was spontaneous and unexpected,” Mr. Wojtowicz said. “But the proverbial seed was planted because of his sincerity.”
“他主动提出了那些想法，让我始料不及，”武伊托维奇说，“不过，他的诚恳也为他后来的成名打下了基础。”
Detroit’s development community is intrigued by Mr. Palazuelo’s strategy to methodically rebuild parts of the Packard over time.
帕拉苏埃洛打算循序渐进、有条不紊地重建帕卡德工厂，这一战略吸引了底特律的地产开发界人士。
“It is a lot of money, but any building that size is going to cost a lot,” said Dan Pitera, an architecture professor at the University of Detroit-Mercy. “But it has possibilities if you do it one piece at a time.”
“这不是一笔小数目，但是那种规模的建筑耗资都是很大的，”底特律大学(University of Detroit-Mercy)的建筑学教授丹·皮特拉(Dan Pitera)说，“不过，如果一次推进一小部分，就会有成功的希望。”
Mr. Palazuelo’s personal odyssey makes him a fitting candidate to take on such a gamble.
长期漂泊的经历，也使帕拉苏埃洛成为了如此放手一搏的合适人选。
He made a fortune converting abandoned buildings into art galleries and apartments in his native Spain, only to lose everything in the recession of 2008. After filing for bankruptcy and on the heels of a bitter divorce, he moved to Lima to start over, drawn by the abundance of cheap, available property in the Peruvian capital.
他曾经靠将废弃建筑改建成艺术画廊和公寓，在自己的国家西班牙发家；到头来，却在2008年的经济衰退中失去了一切。他申请了破产，经历了痛苦的离婚。紧接着，他被秘鲁首都充足的廉价房源吸引，搬到了利马，以图东山再起。
Then in July, Mr. Palazuelo read in the local newspaper that Detroit had filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in American history, and immediately sensed a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
后来，在7月里，帕拉苏埃洛从当地报纸上看到底特律提交破产申请，成为美国历史上最大的破产城市。得知这条消息后，他立马感觉到这是一个千载难逢的机会。
He could not have picked a more problematic place than Detroit, home to an estimated 78,000 abandoned buildings including the decrepit Packard plant.
已经挑不到比底特律问题更严重的地方了。据估计，底特律共有7.8万座废弃建筑，其中包括破败的帕卡德工厂。
Mr. Palazuelo, silver-haired at 58 years old, stopped by the plant during a recent weeklong visit to Detroit to meet with city officials and potential investors in his long-term plan.
帕拉苏埃洛在58岁那年变得头发花白。最近，他在底特律逗留了一周时间，见了市政府官员，还有一些对他的长期计划感兴趣的潜在投资者。在此期间，他还到帕卡德工厂转了转。
“So many people have said to me that this is the very last place I want to be investing money,” he said. “But for me, Detroit is my new home.”
“很多人跟我说，这里绝对不是我想投资的地方，”他说，“但对我来说，底特律就是我的新家。”
Mr. Palazuelo’s company, Arte Express, has revived about a dozen older properties in Lima for banks, insurance companies and other businesses. Several of the buildings had been vacant for decades, but were of historical significance.
在秘鲁，帕拉苏埃洛的公司Arte Express曾为银行、保险公司等企业修缮了十几处老房产，其中好几栋楼本已空置了几十年，但还具有重要的历史价值。
“It’s a positive contribution to the aesthetics of this part of town,” said Julian Corvacho, a lawyer with the real estate arm of the Lima municipal government. “The revamped properties also have attracted companies that have come back downtown to operate.”
“这是对当地市容的积极贡献，”利马市政府的房地产律师朱利安·科尔瓦绍(Julian Corvacho)说，“经过修缮的房产还吸引了一些企业回到市中心经营业务。”
The Packard plant, however, is miles from Detroit’s downtown and surrounded by deserted streets and lots piled with garbage. The plant itself is a lure for thieves in search of scrap metal and other criminal activity. The day after Christmas, the police found a dead body in one of its many interconnected structures.
然而，帕卡德工厂距底特律的市中心还有数英里之遥，而且周围都是废弃的街道和垃圾成山的空地。工厂本身也吸引着盗贼前来偷窃废金属，或开展其它犯罪活动。帕卡德工厂内有许多彼此相通的建筑。就在圣诞节后第二天，警方在其中一座建筑中发现了一具尸体。
But the drawbacks do not deter Mr. Palazuelo, who sees the plant as an international symbol of Detroit’s glory days — and an almost-blank canvas for his dream of building a complex for light industry, warehouses, offices and recreational activities.
但是，这些不利因素都没有让帕拉苏埃洛动摇。在帕拉苏埃洛的眼里，帕卡德工厂是一个国际化的标志，象征着底特律的往昔光辉岁月；它也是一个几乎空白的画布，可以让他大展宏图，打造一个面向轻工业、仓库、办公室和娱乐活动的建筑群。
“The name Packard means something because of its charisma and history,” he said. “It also has huge dimensions and a location near the expressway and major roads.”
“帕卡德这个名称就颇有深意，因为它充满魅力、历史悠久，”他说，“而且帕卡德工厂的规模庞大，靠近高速公路和主干道。”
But the type of light industry he hopes to attract has over the years mostly fled from Detroit to more affluent and safe areas in the suburbs. Even Mr. Palazuelo’s associates wonder if businesses are ready to overlook the hardship and decline of the Packard’s east side neighborhood.
然而，他想吸引的轻工企业近年来已经逃离了底特律，迁到了更富裕也更安全的市郊地区。而帕卡德工厂所在的东部社区，则深陷于困难和衰退的泥沼当中，就连帕拉苏埃洛的合伙人也不确定，那些企业究竟有没有做好排除万难的准备。
“Substantial portions of the plant are structurally quite good,” said James McCormick, a California developer who is working with Mr. Palazuelo. “But it is a challenge because it is so isolated and lacking in public safety.”
“帕卡德工厂有很多地方的建筑结构非常出色，”目前正与帕拉苏埃洛合作的加州开发商詹姆斯·麦考米克(James McCormick)说，“但是在这里落户是一个挑战，因为它太与世隔绝，公共安全没有保证。”
Mr. Palazuelo faces a long process to determine how much of the plant is structurally sound enough to use. Mr. Pitera, who is involved in a municipal planning project called Detroit Future City, suggested that new buildings could be constructed within the Packard’s aged walls, similar to how old factories have been revamped in Germany and elsewhere.
帕拉苏埃洛面临着一个漫长的过程，他需要判断工厂有多少地方的建筑结构达到了可使用的标准。皮特拉参与了名为“底特律未来城”(Detroit Future City)的市政规划项目，他建议，可以在帕卡德工厂的老墙范围内建造新的建筑。德国等地在修缮废弃工厂时，就采用了类似的做法。
Another urban expert, Thomas Sugrue, compared the Packard to the defunct Bethlehem Steel complex in Pennsylvania, which was partly converted into a casino.
另一名城市专家托马斯·萨格鲁(Thomas Sugrue)认为，帕卡德工厂就好比伯利恒钢铁公司(Bethlehem Steel)在宾夕法尼亚州的废弃建筑群，后者被部分改造成了赌场。
But even that project pales in comparison. “I don’t know of any successful attempt to adapt and reuse a facility as decrepit as the Packard,” said Mr. Sugrue, a Detroit-born historian and author of the book “The Origins of the Urban Crisis.” “It would require a staggering investment to bring even part of it back to life.”
可是，就连这个具有可比性的项目也陨落了。“我还从没见过有人能对如帕卡德工厂这么破败的设施，成功加以改造和再利用的，”萨格鲁说。萨格鲁出生于底特律，是位历史学者，曾著书《城市危机的起源》(The Origins of the Urban Crisis)。“就算只是进行部分改造，也需要惊人的投资，”他说。
Mr. Palazuelo is, for now, taking stock of the task ahead. He has talked with county and city officials about improving nearby streets and lighting, and possibly providing tax incentives for investment. And he has hired private security to patrol the grounds, as he considers ways to secure the property from trespassers.
帕拉苏埃洛目前正在为眼前的任务审时度势。他已和县政府及市政府的官员展开商谈，商谈内容涉及改善附近的街道和照明，以及在可能的情况下采取鼓励投资的政策。此外，他正想方设法避免工厂遭到入侵，并已雇佣私人保安在厂区巡视。
As he toured the second floor of one of the Packard’s buildings, Mr. Palazuelo said his initial goal was to clean up the plant in sections, and build an on-site corporate office and an apartment for himself.
帕拉苏埃洛在一座工厂建筑的二楼巡视时说，他最初的目标是对工厂分区清理，给自己建一个厂区办公室和公寓。
Then he will see which of his prospective tenants are genuinely interested in moving in. He said that, so far, a large auto supplier has looked at leasing space, as well as a local liquor distillery. Other plans include possibly building an indoor go-kart track.
接下来，他会看看哪些潜在租户真的有兴趣搬进来。他说，目前为止，一家大型汽车供应商和一家当地酿酒厂已经来出租场地看过。他还有其它计划，可能会建造一条室内卡丁车跑道。
“We will start work,” he said. “And then see who wants to follow us.”
“我们会先开展项目，”他说，“然后看谁愿意来响应我们。”