When Mark Veeder went to visit a friend living on Greene Street in SoHo in 1992, in the short time it took him to get upstairs and glance out the window, he saw someone was breaking into his car. Still, when the friend mentioned his landlord might have a place available on Crosby Street, Mr. Veeder, an event and marketing planner then living on the Upper West Side, jumped at the chance.
1992年，马克·韦德(Mark Veeder)去苏豪区(SoHo)的格林街(Greene Street)拜访一位朋友。他在上楼梯时，只是向窗外扫了一眼，就看到有人正在试图撬开他的车。但是当朋友提到房东在克罗斯比街(Crosby Street)上可能有一处地方需要出租时，当时住在上西区、职业为活动及营销策划师的韦德立刻抓住了机会。
“It was the whole dream,” Mr. Veeder said.
“这就像是梦想成真了一样。”韦德说。
And a pretty good deal, too — $1,500 a month for 2,200 square feet of raw space. Mr. Veeder moved onto the fifth floor of the building, a former fabrics warehouse just up the block from what is now Bloomingdale’s. A few months later, Jean-Luc Fievet, a photographer, and his wife, Tessa, an artist, took the second floor.
而且，这也是笔不错的交易——2200平方英尺（约合204平方米）的毛坯房，每个月租金1500美元（约合人民币9288元）。韦德搬进了五楼，整栋楼以前是一座纺织品仓库，跟现在的布鲁明黛百货公司(Bloomingdale’s)在同一街区。几个月后，摄影师让-卢克·菲费特(Jean-Luc Fievet)和他的妻子、艺术家泰莎(Tessa)搬进了二楼。
“When we first moved in, we’d play croquet and ride our bicycles around,” Mr. Fievet said.
“我们刚搬进去的时候，还可以在屋里打槌球、骑着自行车转悠呢。”菲费特说。
Now their loft brims with flea market furniture and salvaged windows embedded in the drywall, separating out three bedrooms for the couple and their three children, ages 11 to 22.
而现在，他们的公寓里摆满了各种从跳蚤市场淘来的家具，还有被他们抢救回来、嵌在石膏板上的旧窗户。他们用石膏板隔出了三间卧室，作为夫妇俩和三个年龄从11岁到22岁不等的孩子的房间。
The landlord did little to maintain the building, they said, but he also did not hassle them as they created their new homes. The rent rose only $100 every two years, even as Balthazar and Starbucks opened up the block, followed by “Sex and the City” tour buses, national retailers and residential rents well into the five figures.
他们说，房东没怎么维护这栋楼，但是当他们装修自己的新家时，房东也没跟他们争吵。即便法式餐厅Balthazar和星巴克已在街区里开业，《欲望都市》拍摄地旅游车已经开通，各大零售商均已入驻，当地住宅的租金早已超过五位数，但他们的房租每隔两年只上涨100美元（约合人民币619元）。
“We’ve been blessed, to be able to raise my family in this beautiful place. It’s beautiful,” Mr. Fievet said. “But we did everything ourselves. We never asked for anything, and now we don’t want to lose it.”
“我们很幸运，能够在这么美丽的地方建立家庭。这里很美，”菲费特说，“但是，所有事情都是我们自己动手的，我们从来没向别人索取过什么。现在，我们不想失去这一切。”
Even as SoHo seemingly became the center of the universe, the tenants found their building existed in a netherworld, and a law they hoped might protect them did no such thing.
即使苏豪区似乎已经成为了宇宙中心，但房客们发现他们自己的楼房却像建在了地狱里。他们原本寄希望于某部法律来保护自己，但却事与愿违。
It was around four years ago that the landlord, Samuel Landau, began stepping up his work on the building.
大约四年前，房东塞缪尔·朗道(Samuel Landau)开始加紧插手公寓事务。
There were visits from architects and contractors, ripped-up tiles, gashes through the drywall that remained for months in Mr. Veeder’s unit, and the removal of a pair of French doors that separated the master bedroom in Mr. Fievet’s loft from the living room. The frame was a foot too narrow for code. It is now covered by a sheet.
韦德的公寓曾有建筑师和承包商来访，部分面砖已被掀开，石膏板也已开裂了好几个月。而在菲费特的公寓，将客厅和主卧隔开的法式双开门已被拆走。门框比标准规格窄了一英尺（约合30厘米）。现在，他们在门被拆掉的地方挂了一张床单。
“It was my favorite thing in the whole place,” Mr. Fievet said of the doors. When he lost them, Mr. Fievet hired a lawyer to explore his rights. It turned out he didn’t have any.
菲费特说起那扇门，“它是我在这套公寓里最喜欢的东西。”门被拆掉后，菲费特聘请了一名律师，想看看自己拥有哪些权利。结果发现，他什么权利也没有。 
In 1982, the original Loft Law was passed to legalize hundreds of buildings that had been illegally, and often dangerously, converted to residences. The law encouraged landlords to bring their buildings up to code, gain a certificate of occupancy and begin legally collecting rent. Tenants would get safer buildings and the protections of rent regulation. A 2010 expansion was intended to protect any lofts created after 1987, now largely in the boroughs outside Manhattan.
1982年，第一部《工厂房屋改建法》(Loft Law)得到通过，旨在将数百栋经过非法而且往往危险改建的楼房合法化。这部法律鼓励房东们对房屋进行合规改建，申请房屋出租证，从而合法地收取租金。这样一来，租客就可以租到更安全的房子，并且得到租金管制的保护。2010年，这部法律的适用范围得以扩展，以便覆盖1987年以后改建的房屋。此类房屋现在大多位于曼哈顿以外的行政区。
But like a third of the roughly 900 loft buildings originally covered by the law, the Crosby Street property remained in a kind of suspended legal state. No certificate of occupancy was obtained.
然而，在原本受到法律覆盖的900来栋改建建筑中，有三分之一仍处于法律地位不明的状态，没有申请出租证。本文所说的克罗斯比街的房产就是其一。 
The tenants applied for protection under the law in late 2010, hoping the limited improvements of the past three decades would win them coverage. An administrative law judge ruled against them the next year.
2010年末，房客们申请了法律保护，希望这三十年来居住条件的有限改进，能够为他们赢得法律的覆盖。2011年，一名行政法法官做出了对他们不利的判决。
The reason they were able to move into their apartments in the first place was because Mr. Landau had bought out the previous tenants in the 1980s, paying $16,000 for the second floor and $7,500 for the fifth. That had freed the apartments from rent regulation, the judge ruled, but she did grant them protected status, which prevents eviction without cause and other forms of harassment.
他们一开始之所以能搬进去，就是因为朗道在20世纪80年代买断了之前房客享有的租赁权，他为二楼和五楼的房子分别支付了16000美元（约合人民币99075元）和7500美元（约合人民币46442元）。根据法官的判决，朗道对租赁权的买断已使公寓不能受到租金管制；不过，法官还是赋予了他们受保护的状态，使他们可以不被无故驱逐或受到其它形式的骚扰。
As the tenants’ anxieties continued to increase, so did their rents. Mr. Landau raised the rent $1,100 in 2012 and $400 this year. That brought monthly rent to $3,900, which they manage to pay. But they fear it could keep rising beyond their reach, especially since the building will eventually pass to new owners, as Mr. Landau is in his late 80s.
随着房客们的担忧日益加重，他们的租金也在上涨。2012年，朗道把租金提高了1100美元（约合人民币6811元），今年又涨了400美元（约合人民币2477元）。这使得他们每个月必须设法支付3900美元（约合人民币24150元）的房租。但是他们担心，房租最终会涨到自己付不起的地步，尤其是在这栋大楼最终将会易主的情况下。毕竟朗道已经快90岁了。
Mr. Landau said he had raised the rent only to cover the costs of improving the building for the certificate of occupancy, which he disputed he had been delaying. “We started from Day 1,” Mr. Landau said. “The whole thing, it’s such a joke.”
朗道表示自己之所以涨房租，只是为了筹集修缮楼房的资金，以申请房屋出租证。他说，他并没有拖延申请工作。“我们全部从头开始做起，”朗道说，“整件事情简直就像个玩笑。”
His lawyer, Harry Shapiro, pointed out that Mr. Landau could be renting the apartments for three or four times more. “They are suing him, and still he gives them good leases,” Mr. Shapiro said. “They knew what they were getting the day they moved in.”
他的律师哈里·夏皮罗(Harry Shapiro)指出，朗道完全可以把租金涨个两、三倍。“他们在起诉他，而他给他们的租金依然很优惠，”夏皮罗说，“他们在搬进来的第一天，就知道条件是什么样的。”
The tenants hoped relief might come from the Loft Board when it considered their case at the end of last year. Instead, the board stripped them of their protected status by a vote of 6 to 1, with two abstentions. The tenants are suing the city, seeking to overturn the ruling.
去年末，在工厂改建房委员会(Loft Board)审理他们的案子时，他们希望事情能有转机。然而，委员会以6比1（加上两人弃权）的票数剥夺了他们的受保护状态。目前，房客们正在起诉市政府，希望推翻这一裁决。
The Loft Board was emphatic: “Just as tenants may not use the 2010 amendments to regulate the units, neither may they use the expanded law to garner status to which they are neither eligible nor entitled.”
而改建房委员会很强硬：“正如这些房客不适用于2010年的修正案中的租金管制条款，他们不能凭借适用范围扩大后的《工厂房屋改建法》获得受保护的状态。他们并不符合受保护的条件和资格。”
Chuck DeLaney, the tenant representative on the board and lone opposition voter, believes this sets a dangerous precedent. “Why spend the money to legalize?” he said. “No matter what an owner does, he still enjoys the same benefits.”
查克·德莱尼(Chuck DeLaney)是委员会中唯一一名投了反对票的租客代表。他认为这一裁决开了一个危险的先例。“何必花钱申请合法化呢？”他说，“反正不管房主做什么，都能享有同样的权益。”
The tenants acknowledge that they have been fortunate. But they also said that were it not for the maintenance and improvements they had made over the past two decades, no one would be interested in their apartments now.
房客们承认，自己一直很幸运。但是他们也指出，如果不是因为这20年来他们也花了很大心血装修和改善居住环境，现在根本就没有人会在意这些公寓。