Qualcomm, the San Diego-based mobile chip maker, has become the target of an antitrust investigation led by the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning body — a disclosure that sent Qualcomm shares tumbling 1.5 percent and raised concerns about the company’s prospects in its fastest-growing market.
总部位于圣迭戈的移动芯片制造商高通公司(Qualcomm)已经成为中国国家发展和改革委员会(National Development and Reform Commission)——中国最高经济规划机构——发起的一场反垄断调查的目标。这个消息一经披露，便让高通的股价下跌了1.5%，还让人开始担心该公司在其增长最快的市场上的发展前景。
“The NDRC has advised that the substance of the investigation is confidential,” Qualcomm said on its website Monday. “The Company is not aware of any charge by the NDRC that Qualcomm has violated the AML,” or Anti-Monopoly Law.
“国家发改委称，调查内容是保密的，”高通周一在其网站上表示。“公司并不清楚国家发改委已对高通提出了违反《反垄断法》(Anti-Monopoly Law)的任何指控。”
The Chinese government has been heightening its corporate scrutiny in recent months, focusing on corruption as well as business practices that contribute to higher consumer prices. On Sunday, Chinese state media outlets reported that the reform commission would center its antitrust investigations on six industries — aviation, chemical, automobile, household appliances, medical and telecommunications — and step up its fight against pricing monopolies.
中国政府在最近几个月里加强了对企业的审查，其重点是腐败问题以及抬高消费价格的商业行为。周日，中国国有媒体报道称，国家发改委将重点对航空、日化、汽车、家电、医药、电信等六个行业展开反垄断调查，并加大反价格垄断的打击力度。
Qualcomm receives most of its revenue from smartphone chips, and the majority of its profit comes from licensing cellphone network and handset technology. The company reaped 49 percent of its total revenue from China in the financial year that ended in September, a sum that amounted to $12.3 billion. A portion of this revenue came from phones that were assembled in China but sold in foreign markets.
高通的大部分营业收入都来自智能手机芯片业务，大部分利润则来自手机网络技术和手机技术的授权业务。在截至9月的财年里，高通从中国市场赚取的收入总计为123亿美元（约合749亿元人民币），占总营收的49%。这当中有一部分源自在中国组装，但却在海外市场上销售的手机。
News of the investigation comes as China Mobile, the country’s largest cellphone carrier with 800 million subscribers, is preparing to introduce high-speed 4G wireless upgrades next year, which will probably require the use of technology developed by Qualcomm. The timing of the investigation has led some to question whether the Chinese government may be trying to gain leverage for its upcoming royalty negotiations with the American company.
高通反垄断调查的消息传出之际，中国最大的移动通信运营商中国移动正为明年推出提速的4G高速无线网络做准备，此次提速很可能需要使用高通开发的技术。中国政府选择这一时机对高通展开调查，让一些人质疑其动机是不是在即将到来的与这家美国公司的专利授权费谈判中抢占先机。
Tavis McCourt, a financial analyst at Raymond James, said his company suspected ‘‘this investigation is related to the forthcoming launch of TD-LTE by China Mobile in early 2014 and the negotiations on chip pricing and license pricing,’’ Reuters reported.
据路透社报道，雷蒙德·詹姆斯公司(Raymond James)的金融分析师塔维斯·麦考特(Tavis McCourt)表示，他们公司怀疑“这次调查与中国移动即将于2014年初推出TD-LTE网络有关，和芯片定价及授权费定价的谈判也有关联。”
There are three government entities entrusted with investigating and enforcing the Chinese Anti-Monopoly Law, which was passed in 2007: the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Commerce, and the reform commission. The fact that the antitrust investigation is coming from the commission, which is in charge of price supervision and inspection, suggests that the government’s objective is to make 4G service more affordable before its introduction next year.
中国在2007年通过了《反垄断法》，有权进行相关调查执法工作的三个政府机构分别是国家工商行政管理总局、商务部和发改委。此次调查是由负责价格监督检查的国家发改委发起，这意味着中国政府的目标是赶在4G服务于明年推出之前，把它的价格降下来。
This year, the commission led an inquiry into six foreign dairy companies, including Mead Johnson Nutrition and Groupe Danone, after allegations that they broke anti-monopoly rules and fixed prices. The investigation resulted in a fine of $109 million, a record for anti-monopoly violations in China, according to Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
今年，国家发改委指责美赞臣营养品公司(Mead Johnson Nutrition)、达能集团(Groupe Danone)等六家海外奶粉生产企业触犯了反垄断规定、涉嫌价格操纵，随后对它们展开了调查。这场调查致使相关企业交出了1.09亿美元的罚款，中国国有通讯社新华社称，这是中国反垄断史上开出的最大罚单。
The previous record was set in January 2013, when the commission penalized six liquid crystal display makers from South Korea and Taiwan roughly $56 million for price fixing.The commission’s investigation into Qualcomm also comes just days after the company’s chief executive, Paul E. Jacobs, acknowledged that American restrictions on Chinese telecommunications companies and revelations concerning surveillance by the National Security Agency had hurt Qualcomm’s business in China.
此前的纪录是在2013年1月创下的。当时，国家发改委以操纵价格为由，对韩国和台湾的六家液晶显示器制造商处以了约5600万美元的罚款。此外，高通首席执行官保罗·E·雅各布斯(Paul E. Jacobs)曾经坦承，美国对中国通信公司的限制以及美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)“监控门”的曝光，已经对高通在中国的业务造成了伤害。这话说了没几天，国家发改委就对高通展开了调查。
According to recent news reports, executives at Cisco Systems have said that Chinese customers with ties to the government may be reducing purchases of Cisco equipment in response to the N.S.A. disclosures and a law passed by the United States Congress this year that prohibits federal agencies from buying information technology equipment from Chinese companies without approval. On Nov. 14, Cisco reported that orders from China fell 18 percent in the current quarter, while worldwide revenue was expected to decline 8 percent to 10 percent in the same period.
最近有报道称，思科系统公司(Cisco Systems)的高管表示，与政府有关的一些中国客户有可能正在减少对思科设备的采购，以此作为对美国国安局“监控门”以及美国国会(United States Congress)今年通过的一项法律的回应。这项法律禁止联邦机构在没有得到许可的情况下采购中国公司生产的信息技术设备。11月14日，思科发布消息称，上一季度，来自中国的订单下降了18%，而本季度的全球收入预计会下降8%到10%。