After taking two months off to spend time with his newborn daughter, Mark Zuckerberg is back to business. And business is good.
休了两个月产假来陪伴刚出生的女儿之后，马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)回归工作。事实证明，生意非常地兴旺。
On Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg’s company, Facebook, reported another quarter of soaring revenue. Sales rose 52 percent from a year earlier to $5.84 billion on the strength of its mobile advertising business and an increase in daily users. Profit rose to $1.56 billion, more than doubling from a year earlier.
本周三，扎克伯格的公司Facebook公布季报，营收再一次飙升。由于移动端广告业务的强劲表现和日常用户的增加，公司上季度的销售额达58.4亿美元，同比攀升了52%。利润增至15.6亿美元，比去年同期翻番有余。
The numbers far surpassed Wall Street’s expectations of $1.2 billion in profit on $5.37 billion in revenue.
这些数字远远超出了华尔街预期的53.7亿美元营收、12亿美元利润。
Investors welcomed the blockbuster results. Facebook’s shares, which closed at $94.45 in regular trading, jumped in after-hours trading.
投资者对这一亮眼业绩反应热烈。Facebook的股价当天收于94.45美元，并在盘后交易中大幅飙升。
Facebook’s results offer a bright spot in a tumultuous climate for many American technology stocks. Shares of Twitter, Facebook’s most visible social networking competitor in the United States, have tumbled more than 55 percent over the last year. Yelp, the local-review service, is down around 60 percent. LinkedIn, the professional social networking service, is off about 19 percent.
在许多美国科技股境遇不佳的大环境下，Facebook的业绩提供了一个亮点。该公司在美国最显眼的社交网络竞争对手是Twitter，而后者的股价去年跌去了逾55%。区域性测评服务Yelp的股价下挫了60%。职业社交网络服务LinkedIn跌了19%。
Unlike its contemporaries, however, Facebook enjoys regular visitor numbers and revenue growth that show no signs of stumbling. Facebook now has 1.59 billion monthly visitors, up 14 percent from a year earlier. Some 1.44 billion of those people visit the site from a mobile device; 1.04 billion visit Facebook every day.
与同类服务想比，Facebook的日常访问人数和收入增长没有丝毫的疲软迹象。Facebook目前拥有每月15.9亿访客，同比增长14%。其中大约14.4亿人使用移动设备访问这一网站；更有10.4亿人每天都会造访。
The numbers do not include the hundreds of millions of people who regularly use Instagram, the photo-sharing app, and WhatsApp, the messaging service, which are also owned by Facebook.
这些数据并没有包括Facebook公司旗下的Instagram和WhatsApp拥有的数亿常客。Instagram是一款分享照片的应用，而WhatsApp提供即时通讯服务。
“Our community continued to grow and our business is thriving,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement. “We continue to invest in better serving our community, building our business and connecting the world.”
“我们的社区持续增长，我们的业务欣欣向荣，”扎克伯格在声明中表示。“在更好地服务我们的社区、打造我们的业务并联通全世界方面，我们将继续投入。”