LONDON — William Makepeace Thackeray, the 19th-century English satirist, was born in Calcutta, and once penned an ode to curry. “ 'Tis, when done,” he wrote, “a dish for Emperors to feed upon.”
伦敦——19世纪英国讽刺作家威廉·梅克比斯·萨克雷(William Makepeace Thackeray)出生在加尔各答，有一次他吟诗歌颂咖喱。“故而，完成之时，”他写道，“成就一道皇家御菜。”
Curry today, done well or otherwise, feeds Britons of all stations. (The British use the word “curry” as a catchall term for all types of Indian food.) Most Britons, at least according to various opinion polls, consider chicken tikka masala, a British colonial adaptation consisting of chunks of chicken drowned in yogurt and a spicy tomato paste, their national dish — more so than fish and chips with mushy peas.
今天，所有阶层的英国人都会吃咖喱，无论是做成什么样子（英国用“咖喱”来笼统称呼所有印度菜）。至少根据各项民意调查，多数英国人认为烤鸡咖喱(Chicken Tikka Masala)是他们的国菜，甚至超过了炸鱼和薯条配豌豆泥。烤鸡咖喱是一款从英国殖民同化过来的菜式，将鸡肉块泡在酸奶和辣番茄酱里。
Curry is so important to the national palate that it has its own committee in Parliament. Nearly every town has a curry restaurant, known here as a curry house; even the village of Ballater, Scotland, nestled among mountains and with 1,500 residents, boasts two.
咖喱对英国饮食非常重要，重要到在国会中有自己的委员会。几乎每座乡镇都有“咖喱屋”；就算在苏格兰的巴拉特村，也有两家。要知道，巴拉特坐落在群山之中，仅有1500名居民。
But the curry industry has found itself in a pickle: There are not enough curry chefs in Britain.
不过，咖喱行业正逐渐陷入困境：英国没有足够的咖喱菜厨师。
The Conservative government's restrictions on immigration are causing an acute staff shortage, said Shahanoor Khan, secretary general of the British Bangladeshi Caterer Association. Already, he said in an interview, a third of the nation's 12,500 curry houses are facing closing because they cannot find chefs.
英国孟加拉人餐饮协会(British Bangladeshi Caterer Association)秘书长沙哈努尔·汗(Shahanoor Khan)称，保守党政府的移民限制导致人手急缺。他在采访中表示，目前，全国1.25万家咖喱屋中有三分之一因为无法找到厨师而正面临倒闭。
The first generation of curry chefs who opened restaurants in the 1960s were mostly from East Pakistan, what is now Bangladesh, and are now retiring, but they cannot find cooks to replace them, Khan said. Younger, better-educated and more assimilated British Asians are reluctant to take on the family business because of the grueling hours and low pay.
汗说，在60年代开餐馆的第一代咖喱厨师大多来自东巴基斯坦，也就是现在的孟加拉国。他们正面临退休，却无法找到可以取代他们的厨师。较年轻、受过良好教育、更融入英国的亚裔因为工时苛刻、工资低下而不愿继承家族生意。
Indian restaurants are changing, too. Customers are increasingly demanding authentic fare that reflects India's culinary diversity and sophistication, a trend also seen with the rising number of Michelin-starred Indian restaurants. But Indian cooks trained in Britain are few and far between, and chefs say it takes at least seven years to properly train one.
印度菜餐馆也面临变革。越来越多的客户要求正宗美食，能够反映出印度烹饪的多样性和复杂性。这种趋势也在日益增多的米其林星级印度餐馆中呈现。但英国培养的印度菜厨师少之又少，而业内人士表示至少需要七年的时间才能让一位学徒满师。
“Because of immigration, you have tikka masala,” said Paul Scully, a Conservative lawmaker and chairman of the All-Party Parliamentary Group of the Curry Catering Industry. Curry proves that immigration is no threat to Britain's “cohesive society,” he said, criticizing Theresa May, the home secretary, who told the Conservative Party conference last month that migrants were endangering national cohesion.
“因为移民，你才有了烤鸡咖喱，”议会跨党派咖喱餐饮业委员会(All-Party Parliamentary Group of the Curry Catering)主席、来自保守党的保罗·斯库利(Paul Scully)说。他表示咖喱证明移民对英国“有凝聚力的社会”并没有任何威胁，藉此批评内政大臣特里莎·梅(Theresa May)。后者上月在保守党全体议员面前宣称移民危害民族凝聚力。
Mohammad Azad, executive chef at Cafe Saffron in Shropshire, said he has tried to hire Europeans. But there were “so many barriers in the kitchen, starting with the language,” he said at a curry chef awards ceremony held here.
在什罗普郡的藏红花餐吧(Cafe Saffron)，行政总厨穆罕默德·阿扎德(Mohammad Azad)表示，他一直试图聘请欧洲人。但在此间举行的一次咖喱厨师颁奖仪式上，他说，“在厨房里有太多的障碍，首先是语言不通。”
At the ceremony, at the elegant Lancaster London hotel overlooking Hyde Park, politicians, entrepreneurs, minor celebrities and curry chefs mingled and watched an incongruous troupe of women clad in aprons dance to Bollywood music, waving ladles in the air as the winners were announced.
仪式在俯瞰海德公园的雅致的伦敦兰开斯特酒店举行。政界人士、企业家、小有名气的明星和咖喱厨师欢聚一堂，观看一班穿着围裙的女人跟着宝莱坞音乐起舞，当获奖名单公布时就在空中挥舞着杓子，场面有那点不协调。
“When it gets busy in the kitchen and you start shouting in Bengali, it's difficult for a Romanian to understand,” Azad said, raising his voice above the din.
阿扎德在喧闹声中提高了自己的声音，“当厨房里很忙的时候，你就会开始用孟加拉语喊话，而罗马尼亚人就很难明白你在说什么。”
Staff shortages are common among all types of restaurants, but they are particularly worrying for those specializing in curry.
员工短缺的现象在所有类型的餐馆里都很普遍，但专于咖喱方面的厨师的短缺情况特别让人担忧。
Indian restaurants employ about 100,000 people and generated 4.2 billion British pounds ($6.3 billion) in sales last year, accounting for about a fifth of the entire restaurant business, according to data compiled by Karan Bilimoria, a member of the Parliament's curry committee and the creator of Cobra beer. Bilimoria is also leading efforts to build “curry colleges” across the country with the aim of expanding the Indian restaurant business, which produces twice as much revenue as Britain's steel industry.
议会咖喱委员会成员、眼镜蛇啤酒(Cobra Beer)创始人卡兰·比利莫瑞(Karan Bilimoria)搜集的数据显示，印度菜餐馆雇有约10万名员工，去年的销售额达42亿英镑（约合410亿元人民币），约占整个餐饮业的五分之一。比利莫瑞还带头推动在全国建立“咖喱学院”，目标是拓展收益为英国钢铁业两倍的印度餐饮业。
Politicians and entrepreneurs like Scully and Bilimoria are urging the government to relax immigration rules. Britain currently puts a cap on skilled migrants arriving from outside the European Union and requires chefs seeking entry to be paid at least 29,570 pounds a year, which is 5,000 pounds more than the average salary in the industry.
像斯库利和比利莫瑞这样的政界和企业界人士正促请政府放宽移民条例。英国现时对于来自欧盟以外国家的技术移民加以限制，并要求移民厨师争取至少2.957万镑的年薪，而这比业内平均工资多出了5000镑。
Most Indian restaurants are small family-owned businesses, and owners struggle to match the wages that the government demands. New restaurants also normally take 18 months to break even, said Motin Miah, a restaurant owner based in Harpenden, northwest of London.
大多数印度菜餐馆是小家族企业，老板难以配合政府的工资要求。在伦敦西北部哈彭登开餐馆的老板莫亭·米亚(Motin Miah)说，新餐厅一般要花18个月才能达到收支平衡。
At a debate held at the House of Commons two weeks ago, Scully said the curry industry would benefit from Britain leaving the European Union. It would give Britain “more flexibility to control our borders and tackle some of the unintended consequences of immigration from outside the EU,” he said. “Things such as bringing curry chefs over might benefit.”
两星期前在下议院举行辩论时，斯库利表示，咖喱业可从英国离开欧盟中获益。这会让英国“更灵活地控制我们的边界，应对来自欧盟以外移民带来的一些意想不到的后果，”他说。“例如引进咖喱厨师等事就可能受益。”
The irony of a crackdown on migrants is not lost on curry chefs, given the history that binds India and Britain. After all, curry came to British shores when merchants in the East India Co. returned home with their Indian cooks.
考虑到印度与英国的历史，遏制移民的做法在咖喱厨师一事上不无讽刺。毕竟，咖喱在英国登陆，是因为东印度公司(East India Co.)的商人回英国时带回了他们的印度厨师。
The East India trading company controlled vast swaths of land in India for more than a century until it was taken over in the mid-1800s by the British crown, which began its own colonial rule. Merchants directly ruled the eastern territories of Bihar and Bengal, some of which make up present-day Bangladesh. The company had its headquarters in what is now Kolkata, where Thackeray was born.
东印度公司控制印度大片国土长达一个多世纪，直到英国皇室在19世纪中期接管，并开始了自己的殖民统治。商人直接统治印度东部的比哈尔和孟加拉，其中一些地方组成了现今孟加拉国。该贸易公司总部设在现今的加尔各答，而萨克雷就是在那里出生的。
Company officials regarded themselves as the Indian elite, wearing local clothes and even referring to themselves as Indians back in Britain, said Lizzie Collingham, the author of “Curry: A Tale of Cooks and Conquerors.”
《咖喱：厨师与征服者的故事》(Curry: A Tale of Cooks and Conquerors)一书的作者莉齐·科林汉(Lizzie Collingham)表示，那时候，公司管理层自认为印度精英，穿着当地服饰，甚至在回到英国的时候自称印度人。
Curry powder was concocted in India to suit the taste of its British overlords, simplifying the dazzling array of regional cuisines.
为了迎合英国领主的口味，印度出现了咖喱粉，将琳琅满目的地方菜肴进行了简化。
“The British invented the curry powder to put into their English stew,” she said. “It's a pastiche of what the British and the Europeans thought of as Indian food,” she added. “It was like saying all Europeans eat stew.”
“是英国人发明了放在英式炖菜里的咖喱粉，”她说。“这是仿制的英国人和欧洲人心目中的印度食品，”她还表示。“就像说所有欧洲人都吃炖菜一样。”