PARIS — The 4-year-old boy seemed to be suspended from a balcony. An adult standing on a nearby balcony seemed powerless to help. Disaster seemed the only possible outcome.
巴黎——那个四岁男孩正悬在阳台上。站在旁边阳台上的一名成年人似乎无法把他拉上来。灾难似乎是唯一可能的结果。
Then, to the nimble rescue on the streets of Paris on Saturday evening, came a young man whom some French people have started to call the Spider-Man of the 18th, referring to the arrondissement of Paris where the episode unfolded.
然后，一个小伙子，在周六晚上的巴黎街头，展开了一场敏捷的救援，一些法国人开始称他为“十八区蜘蛛侠”，十八区就是这起事件所在的巴黎城区。
With a combination of grit, agility and muscle, the man hauled himself hand over hand from one balcony to another, springing from one parapet to grasp the next one up. A crowd that had gathered before he began his daring exploit urged him ever upward, according to onlookers’ video that was shared widely on social media.
这名男子凭借自己的勇气、敏捷和肌肉，双手轮流从一个阳台爬到另一个阳台，从一个栏杆上跳起来，抓住上一个栏杆。围观者拍摄的视频在社交媒体上广泛转发，显示在他开始大胆救援之前就已经聚起来的人群一直在鼓励他向上攀登。
Finally, after scaling four balconies, the man reached the child and pulled him to safety. And suddenly, an act of individual courage and resourcefulness began to play into Europe’s fraught and polarized debate about outsiders, immigrants and refugees.
爬了四个阳台之后，这名男子终于够到了那个孩子，把他拉到了安全地带。突然之间，这个充满个人勇气和智谋的行为卷入了欧洲关于外来者、移民和难民的这场令人担忧的两极化辩论中。
The man, identified as Mamoudou Gassama, 22, is a migrant from Mali, a troubled former French colony in northwest Africa, who journeyed through Burkina Faso, Niger and Libya before making the dangerous Mediterranean Sea crossing to Italy and arriving in France in September, without documentation.
小伙子名叫马穆杜·加萨马(Mamoudou Gassama)，22岁，是一名来自马里的移民。马里是非洲西北部的一个处于动荡之中的前法国殖民地。他曾穿越布基纳法索、尼日尔和利比亚，渡过充满危险的地中海，到达意大利，然后在去年9月抵达法国，没有办理移民手续。
On Monday, after his heroic rescue of the boy, he met with President Emmanuel Macron. Now, he will get the requisite documentation to live legally in France.
周一，在英勇地营救了那名男孩之后，法国总统埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)接见了他。现在他将获得在法国合法居住的必要文件。
Mr. Gassama will be one of a lucky few in a country with increasingly tight immigration rules and a generally skeptical attitude toward migrants who are seeking primarily economic benefits.
在这个移民规定日益严格、对主要寻求经济利益的移民持普遍怀疑态度的国家，加萨马将是少数幸运的人之一。
In 2017, only five people were granted residency papers for “exceptional talent” or “services rendered to the community,” according to statistics from the French Interior Ministry. In 2016, there were six.
根据法国内政部(French Interior Ministry)的统计数据，2017年，只有五个人凭借“特殊才能”或“为社区服务”获得了居留资格。2016年有六个。
On Monday, sitting across from Mr. Macron in one of the palace’s many gilded rooms, Mr. Gassama, wearing jeans and a short-sleeved shirt, told the French president about the rescue. “Bravo,” Mr. Macron said, as the two men sat before TV cameras.
周一，在爱丽舍宫一个金碧辉煌的房间里，身穿牛仔裤和短袖衫的加萨马和法国总统马克龙在摄像机前相对而坐，向他讲述了营救经过。“了不起，”马克龙说。
Mr. Macron said in his statement that the Paris firefighters were “eager to welcome” Mr. Gassama into their ranks. He added that he had “invited” Mr. Gassama to apply for French citizenship, “because France is built on desire, and Mr. Gassama’s commitment clearly showed that he has that desire.”
马克龙在声明中表示，巴黎的消防队员们“热切地欢迎”加萨马加入他们的队伍。马克龙还表示，他已“邀请”加萨马申请法国国籍，“因为法国是建立在渴望之上的，而加萨马的献身精神清楚地表明他有这种渴望”。
The boy saved by Mr. Gassama was alone in the apartment while his father went grocery shopping, said François Molins, the Paris prosecutor. The boy’s mother was not in Paris at the time.
巴黎检察官弗朗索瓦·莫兰(François Molins)称，加萨马救下的男孩当时独自待在公寓里，他的父亲去杂货店买东西了。男孩的母亲当时不在巴黎。
Mr. Molins told the BFM television news channel that the father had taken a long time to return home because he had decided to play the smartphone game Pokémon Go as he was leaving the store.
莫兰在接受BFM电视新闻频道采访时称，男孩的父亲花了很长时间才回到家，因为他决定在离开商店时玩智能手机游戏《精灵宝可梦Go》。
“He is devastated because he realizes what he did, and the tragic consequences that it could have led to,” Mr. Molins said.
“在意识到自己做了什么，以及可能导致的悲剧后果后，他很痛苦，”莫兰说。
The father was taken into police custody on Sunday, and an investigation has been opened for “failure to meet parental obligations.” A conviction on that charge carries a sentence of up to two years in prison. The parents have not been identified, as is customary in French criminal inquiries.
周日，这名父亲被警方拘留，并因“未能履行父母义务”接受调查。这项指控最多可判两年监禁。按照法国刑事调查的惯例，这对父母的姓名没有公布。
The father has been released pending trial.
父亲已被释放，并等待审判。
As for Mr. Gassama, he told the newspaper Le Parisien that he was with his girlfriend and wanted to go watch the Champions League soccer final Saturday evening when he came across a commotion around 8 p.m.
至于加萨马，他在接受《巴黎人》报(Le Parisien)采访时表示，当时他和女友在一起，想去看周六晚上的欧洲冠军联赛决赛，结果在晚上8点左右撞见这起事故。
“I saw all these people shouting, and cars sounding their horns,” he said. “So I crossed the road to go save him.”
“我看到人们在喊叫，汽车在鸣笛，”他说，“所以我穿过马路去救他。”
“I felt afraid when I saved the child,” he said, according to French news reports. “I started to shake, I could hardly stand up. I had to sit down.”
据法国新闻报道称，他说：“救下那个孩子时，我觉得特别害怕。我开始颤抖，几乎站不起来。只好坐了下来。”