Becoming an American can be bad for your health.
成为美国人很可能不利于您的健康。
A growing body of mortality research on immigrants has shown that the longer they live in this country, the worse their rates of heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes. And while their American-born children may have more money, they tend to live shorter lives than the parents.
有越来越多关于移民死亡率的研究表明，移民在美国居住的时间越长，他们患心脏病、高血压和糖尿病的比例也就越高。而且，与第一代移民相比，他们在美国出生的子女虽然可能较为富裕，寿命却往往较短。
The pattern goes against any notion that moving to America improves every aspect of life. It also demonstrates that at least in terms of health, worries about assimilation for the country’s 11 million illegal immigrants are mistaken. In fact, it is happening all too quickly.
这一模式与人们通常的概念，即移民到美国可以改善各方面生活背道而驰。它还表明，起码在健康方面，完全不必担心1100万非法移民会难以融入美国社会。事实上，这个过程发生得未免太快了点。
“There’s something about life in the United States that is not conducive to good health across generations,” said Robert A. Hummer, a social demographer at the University of Texas at Austin.
“美国的一些生活方式不利于世代健康，”得克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas)的社会人口统计学家罗伯特·A·赫默 (Robert A. Hummer)表示。
For Hispanics, now the nation’s largest immigrant group, the foreign-born live about three years longer than their American-born counterparts, several studies have found.
拉美裔美国人是目前美国最大的移民人群。一些研究发现，在该人群中，在外国出生者的寿命比在美国出生的人约长三年左右。
Why does life in the United States — despite its sophisticated health care system and high per capita wages — lead to worse health? New research is showing that the immigrant advantage wears off with the adoption of American behaviors — smoking, drinking, high-calorie diets and sedentary lifestyles.
美国拥有先进的医疗卫生系统和较高的人均工资，可为什么在美国生活反而会导致健康状况恶化？新的研究显示，采用美式行为方式，如吸烟、饮酒、高热量饮食和久坐不动等，可抵消移民带来的优势。
Here in Brownsville, a worn border city studded with fast-food restaurants, immigrants say that happens slowly, almost imperceptibly. In America, foods like ham and bread that are not supposed to be sweet are. And children lose their taste for traditional Mexican foods like cactus and beans.
布朗斯维尔(Brownsville)是一个古老的边境城市，快餐店密布。这儿的移民说，上述变迁发生得非常缓慢，几乎令人无法察觉。在美国，像火腿和面包之类不应该有甜味的食物都含有糖。孩子们品尝不到传统的墨西哥食品，如仙人掌和豆类等。
For the recently arrived, the quantity and accessibility of food speaks to the boundless promise of the United States. Esther Angeles remembers being amazed at the size of hamburgers — as big as dinner plates — when she first came to the United States from Mexico 15 years ago.
对于初到美国的移民来说，丰富易得的食物似乎成了美国充满无限希望的最好代言。埃丝特·安赫莱斯(Esther Angeles)还记得15年前，当她第一次从墨西哥来到美国时，大如餐盘的汉堡令她惊叹不已。
“I thought, this is really a country of opportunity,” she said. “Look at the size of the food!”
“我想，这真是一个充满机遇的国家，”她说，“看这食物的份量！”
Fast-food fare not only tasted good, but was also a sign of success, a family treat that new earnings put in reach.
快餐不仅口味不错，还是一种成功的标志，是你用新挣到的收入实现的家庭大餐。
“The crispiness was delicious,” said Juan Muniz, 62, recalling his first visit to Church’s Chicken with his family in the late 1970s. “I was proud and excited to eat out. I’d tell them: ‘Let’s go eat. We can afford it now.’ ”
“那些食物真是松脆可口，”62岁的胡安·穆尼斯(Juan Muniz)回忆起20世纪70年代后期，他与家人第一次光顾德州炸鸡(Church’s Chicken)时的情形。“在外面吃饭令我非常自豪和兴奋。我总是对他们提议：‘我们出去吃饭吧。我们现在吃得起了。’”
For others, supersize deals appealed.
对于其他人来说，超大份的食物十分有吸引力。
“You work so hard, you want to use your money in a smart way,” said Aris Ramirez, a community health worker in Brownsville, explaining the thinking. “So when they hear ‘twice the fries for an extra 49 cents,’ people think, ‘That’s economical.’ ”
“工作如此辛苦，你花钱时当然会想要明智一点，”布朗斯维尔的社区医疗工作者阿里斯·拉米雷斯(Aris Ramirez)对这种思维作出了解释，“所以，当人们听说‘加49美分就可以再来一份薯条’时，他们会觉得：‘这真划算。’”
For Ms. Angeles, the excitement of big food eventually wore off, and the frantic pace of the modern American workplace took over. She found herself eating hamburgers more because they were convenient and she was busy in her 78-hour-a-week job as a housekeeper. What is more, she lost control over her daughter’s diet because, as a single mother, she was rarely with her at mealtimes.
就安赫莱斯女士而言，在对大份食物的兴奋感终于消失后，取而代之的是美国现代职场的疯狂步伐。她意识到自己吃汉堡比较多，这是由于她每周的家政工作长达78小时，吃这种食物比较便捷。更重要的是，她失去了对她女儿饮食的控制，因为作为一个单身母亲，她几乎没什么机会陪她一起吃饭。
Robert O. Valdez, a professor of family and community medicine and economics at the University of New Mexico, said, “All the things we tell people to do from a clinical perspective today — a lot of fiber and less meat — were exactly the lifestyle habits that immigrants were normally keeping.”
新墨西哥大学(University of New Mexico)的家庭及社区医学和经济学教授罗伯特·O·巴尔德斯(Robert O. Valdez)指出：“现在我们从临床角度上指导人们应该做的所有事情——多吃纤维，少吃肉——正是移民们过去惯常的生活方式和习惯。”
As early as the 1970s, researchers found that immigrants lived several years longer than American-born whites even though they tended to have less education and lower income, factors usually associated with worse health. That gap has grown since 1980. Less clear, however, was what happened to immigrants and their American-born offspring after a lifetime in the United States.
早在20世纪70年代，研究人员就发现，即使新移民们的教育程度和收入往往较低，而这些因素通常都与健康状况不良相关，但他们的寿命却比在美国出生的白人要长好几年。自1980年以来，这一差距日渐增大。然而，目前尚不清楚，在美国生活了一辈子后，移民们和他们在美国出生的后代身上究竟发生了些什么。
Evidence is mounting that the second generation does worse. Elizabeth Arias, a demographer at the National Center for Health Statistics, has made exploratory estimates based on data from 2007 to 2009, which show that Hispanic immigrants live 2.9 years longer than American-born Hispanics. The finding, which has not yet been published, is similar to those in earlier studies.
越来越多的证据显示，第二代移民的情况的确更糟。美国国家卫生统计中心(National Center for Health Statistics)的人口统计学家伊丽莎白·阿里亚斯(Elizabeth Arias)根据2007年至2009年的数据，做出了探索性预测，她估计拉美裔第一代移民的人均寿命约比在美国出生的移民长2.9年。这些尚未发表的研究结果与早期的研究相类似。
Still, the data does not break down by generation. Ms. Arias cautioned that subsequent generations — for example, grandchildren and great-grandchildren — may indeed improve as they rise in socioeconomic status, which in the United States is strongly correlated with better health.
不过这个数据并没有将几代移民分而视之。阿里亚斯告诫说：随着移民们的社会经济地位的提高（在美国，这与良好的健康密切相关），只有到了第一代移民的孙辈和重孙辈后代时，情况才有可能得到切实的改善。
Other research suggests that some of the difference has to do with variation among American-born Hispanics, most of whom still do better than the rest of the American population. Puerto Ricans born in the continental United States, for example, have some of the shortest life spans and even do worse than whites born in the United States, according to research by Professor Hummer, dragging down the numbers for American-born Hispanics. But Mexican immigrant men live about two years longer than Mexican-American men, according to the estimates by Ms. Arias.
其他的研究表明，其中部分差异可能是在美国出生的拉美裔美国人（其中大多数仍然比美国人群长寿）中存在变异性造成。例如，根据赫默教授的研究，在美国本土出生的波多黎各人寿命最短，甚至短于在美国出生的白人，这拉低了在美国出生的拉美裔美国人的平均寿命。但是，从阿里亚斯的估计值来看，墨西哥男性移民比墨西哥裔美国男性的寿命约长两年左右。
Why is a harder question to answer, researchers say. Some point to smoking. Andrew Fenelon, a researcher at Brown University, found in 2011 that half of the three-year life expectancy advantage that Hispanic immigrants had over American-born Hispanics was because they smoked less. The children of immigrants adopt health behaviors typical of Americans in their socioeconomic group. For second-generation Hispanics, the group tends to be lower income, with higher rates of smoking and drinking.
为什么会是这样呢？研究人员认为这个问题更难回答。有人将矛头指向吸烟。布朗大学的研究人员安德鲁·费内伦(Andrew Fenelon)在2011年发现，与在美国出生的拉美裔美国人相比，拉美裔新移民在预期寿命方面所拥有的三年优势中，有一半是因为他们吸烟较少。移民们的子女多采取了他们所在社会经济群体中美国人的典型健康行为。对于第二代拉美裔美国人而言，这一人群往往收入较低，吸烟和饮酒率较高。
Other researchers say culture contributes. Foreign-born Hispanics are less likely than American-born Hispanics to be raising children alone, and more likely to be part of large kinship networks that insulate them from harsh American economic realities that can lead to poor health.
其他的研究人员表示，文化也发挥了一定作用。与在美国出生的拉美裔美国人相比，在外国出生的拉美裔美国人独自抚养子女的可能性较小，相反，他们更可能作为由亲属关系构成的大型网络的一份子，得以免受可导致不良健康状况的严酷的美国经济现实的影响。
“I’d love to have my wife at home taking care of the kids and making sure they eat right, but I can’t afford to,” said Camilo Garza, a 34-year-old plumber and maintenance worker whose grandfather immigrated from Mexico. “It costs money to live in the land of the free. It means both parents have to work.”
“我当然愿意让妻子在家照顾孩子，并确保他们的饮食健康，但我负担不起这样的生活，”祖父是墨西哥移民，现年34岁的水管工和维修工卡米洛·加尔萨(Camilo Garza)说，“在这个自由的国度里生活是很花钱的。这意味着父母双方都必须工作。”
As a result, his family eats out almost every night, leaving his dining table abandoned.
因此，他们一家几乎每天晚上都在外面吃饭，家里的餐桌形同虚设。
“It’s a decoration,” said Mr. Garza, who is overweight and a smoker. “It’s a place where we set groceries before sticking them in the refrigerator.”
“它成了一个装饰品，”吸烟且体重超重的加尔萨说，“或者说，是我们把副食品往冰箱里塞之前，暂时搁一下的地方。”
The lifestyle takes its toll. The county in which Brownsville is situated, Cameron, has some of the highest rates of obesity and diabetes in the country. The numbers are made worse by a lack of physical activity, including walking. Immigrants said they felt so conspicuous during early attempts to walk along the shoulder of the roads that they feared people would suspect they were here illegally. Ms. Angeles recalled that strolling to a dollar store provoked so many stares that she felt like “a bean in rice.”
这样的生活方式令人们付出了代价。布朗斯维尔所在的卡梅伦郡，其肥胖率和糖尿病发病率均居于美国前列。缺乏步行等体育活动让这些数字变得更糟。移民们表示，起初他们也曾尝试沿着路肩散步，但他们总感觉自己太显眼了，担心会不会被怀疑是非法移民。安赫莱斯女士回忆起她不过是溜达到一元店去，一路上接受了无数目光的洗礼，让她感觉自己像是“大米里面的一颗豆子”。
“In Mexico, we ate healthily and didn’t even know it,” said Ms. Angeles, who has since developed diabetes. “Here, we know the food we eat is bad for us. We feel guilty. But we eat it anyway.”
“在墨西哥，我们的饮食习惯非常健康，甚至连我们自己都不知道这一点，”在移民后罹患糖尿病的安赫莱斯女士说，“但在这里，我们知道这些食物不利于健康，也感到内疚，却照吃不误。”
Still, immigrants have better health outcomes than the American-born. A 2006 analysis by Gopal K. Singh, a researcher at the Department of Health and Human Services, and Robert A. Hiatt, a professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of California, San Francisco, found that immigrants had at least a 20 percent lower overall cancer mortality rate than their American-born counterparts.
尽管如此，第一代移民的健康预后仍然优于他们在美国出生的同类。2006年，美国卫生和公众服务部的研究人员戈帕尔·K·辛格(Gopal K. Singh)和加州大学旧金山分校的流行病学和生物统计学教授罗伯特·A·希亚特(Robert A. Hiatt)合作进行的一项分析发现，与在美国出生的移民相比，第一代移民的总癌症死亡率至少低20%。
Mortality rates from heart disease were about 16 percent lower, for kidney disease 18 percent lower, and for liver cirrhosis 24 percent lower.
此外，他们心脏病死亡率约低16%，肾病率约低18%，肝硬化率约低24%。
“When my daughter was born, my doctor told me that if I wanted to see her 15th birthday I needed to lose the weight,” said Gerry Ortiz, 37, a first-generation Mexican-American in Brownsville. He managed to lose 75 pounds, motivated in part by his grandfather, a farmer in rural Mexico who at 93 still rides his bicycle every day. He stares down at the family from a black-and-white photograph hanging in Mr. Ortiz’s living room. Four of the family’s six siblings are obese and have diabetes.
“当我的女儿出生后，医生告诉我，如果我想看着她过15岁生日，就必须减肥，”居住在布朗斯维尔的第一代墨西哥裔美国人，37岁的格里·奥尔蒂斯(Gerry Ortiz)说。目前他已经成功减掉了75磅（约34千克）。此举从某种程度上是受到了他那年逾93岁仍然每天骑自行车的老祖父的激励。老人家仍住在墨西哥乡下，他的黑白照片挂在奥尔蒂斯家的客厅墙上，凝视着一家人。在这个家庭的六个兄弟姐妹中，有四人肥胖并患有糖尿病。
And health habits in Mexico are starting to look a lot like those in the United States. Researchers are beginning to wonder how long better numbers for the foreign-born will last. Up to 40 percent of the diet of rural Mexicans now comes from packaged foods, according to Professor Valdez.
墨西哥的健康习惯正日益与美国接近。研究人员开始好奇在外国出生者的优势可以保持多久。据巴尔德斯教授称，现在，在墨西哥农村人群的饮食中，有高达40%来自包装食品。