WASHINGTON —  The White House on Friday said that lawyers at the Justice Department would seek an emergency order from an appeals court to allow the federal government to issue work permits and provide legal protections to hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants while it appeals a judge's ruling halting the programs.
华盛顿——周五，白宫宣布在其向法官暂停移民改革项目的裁决提起上诉的同时，司法部律师将向上诉法院寻求采取紧急措施，允许联邦政府向数十万名非法移民发放工作许可并提供法律保护。
The move came in response to a ruling issued by a federal judge on Monday night indefinitely postponing President Obama’s sweeping executive actions on immigration.
周一晚，一位联邦法官裁决无限期推迟奥巴马总统大刀阔斧的移民改革行政举措，白宫该项举措是对这个裁决的回应。
Officials said the Justice Department would make an official request by the end of the day on Monday.
官员表示，司法部将于周一正式提出请求。
“We believe that when you evaluate the legal merits of the argument, that there is a solid legal foundation for the president to take the steps that he announced late last year to reform our broken immigration system,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said on Friday.
白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在周五表示，“我们认为，当你评估这一论据的法律价值时，总统有坚实的法律基础采取他在去年末宣布的举措，对已出现问题的移民制度进行改革。”
Mr. Earnest added: “That’s consistent with the way that previous presidents over the course of several decades have used their executive authority. And that is why, you know, we are going to continue to pursue this case in the legal system.”
欧内斯特还表示，“这与过去几十年中历任总统行使行政权的方式是一致的。这就是我们准备继续上诉的原因。”
The president in November announced executive actions that would shield up to five million undocumented immigrants from deportation and would establish programs that provide work permits to many of those people. The Department of Homeland Security had been scheduled to begin carrying out part of that program on Tuesday.
奥巴马总统在去年11月宣布将采取行政举措，这些举措将使多达500万名无证件移民免受驱逐，同时开展项目，为其中许多人提供工作许可。国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)原计划从周二开始实施部分计划。
Judge Andrew S. Hanen of Federal District Court in Brownsville, Tex., said in his ruling, in a case brought by Texas and 25 other states, that the administration had not followed required procedures for changing federal rules. The judge issued an injunction ordering that the program be halted, and government officials quickly postponed the actions to comply with the order.
德克萨斯州布朗斯维尔联邦地区法院法官安德鲁·S·哈宁(Andrew S. Hanen)对德克萨斯州和其他25个州提起的诉讼作出裁决，称奥巴马政府没有遵循改变联邦规定所需的程序。哈宁发布禁令，要求政府停止该计划，政府官员很快推迟了行动，以遵守该禁令。
The decision to seek an emergency reversal of the judge’s injunction indicates the urgency felt by the White House and its lawyers.
寻求紧急撤销法官禁令的决定突显了白宫及其律师的紧迫感。
In addition to trying to quickly halt the judge’s injunction, White House officials said on Friday that administration lawyers would soon file an appeal on the substance of the judge’s ruling. Mr. Earnest said the administration’s broader legal strategy in fighting challenges to the president’s executive actions on immigration would depend in part on the results of the appeals.
除了试图快速终止法官的禁令，白宫官员在周五表示，政府律师将很快就法官裁决的基本内容提出上诉。欧内斯特表示，政府应对针对总统行政举措的挑战的广泛法律策略在一定程度上取决于上诉的结果。