HEGYESHALOM, Hungary — Pope Francis added his voice Sunday to those of politicians and legions of volunteers welcoming refugees to Europe, calling on all Roman Catholics — and by extension all fellow Europeans — to take in people who “flee death in conflict and hunger.”
匈牙利海杰什丘——对于前往欧洲的难民，一些政界人士和大批志愿者表示欢迎。周日的时候，教皇方济各也加入他们的行列，呼吁所有罗马天主教徒——以及所有的欧洲同胞——接纳“逃离冲突和饥饿之死”的人。
He was responding for the first time, in public at least, to the mass migration of tens of thousands of people, many from Syria and Iraq, but also Afghanistan, who have been arriving in Europe in recent weeks.
这是他第一次对数万难民大规模迁徙到欧洲做出回应，至少是第一次公开回应。这些难民很多来自叙利亚和伊拉克，也有些人来自阿富汗，他们在最近几周里陆续抵达欧洲。
Referring to the “tragedy of tens of thousands of refugees that flee death in conflict and hunger and are on a journey of hope,” Francis said, according to Vatican Radio, “the Gospel calls us to be close to the smallest and to those who have been abandoned.” He specifically asked that the European bishops support the effort.
梵蒂冈电台(Vatican Radio)称，方济各谈到“数万难民，逃离冲突和饥饿之死，踏上希望的旅程”，他说，“《福音书》要求我们接近那些最弱小的人，那些被抛弃的人。”方济各尤其提请欧洲各地的主教支持这一行动。
Evidence suggested on Sunday that the march of migrants from Turkey and Greece, then through the Balkans and Hungary into wealthier Central Europe was unbroken. More than 10,000 people arrived in Austria en route to Germany after the two countries threw open their borders late Friday to refugees in Hungary who were either walking to Austria, or huddled in a squalid makeshift camp at a Budapest rail station, insisting on moving westward.
从土耳其和希腊前来的难民通过巴尔干半岛和匈牙利，向更加富裕的中欧进发。周日有证据表明，他们的行程并未中断。在前往德国途中，逾1万人抵达了奥地利——两国在上周五晚为取道匈牙利的难民打开了边境。这些人要么在步行前往奥地利，要么挤在布达佩斯一座火车站肮脏的临时营地，一心一意要向西行。
On Sunday, the Hungarian authorities started what they billed as a clampdown on the influx of refugees from over the southern border with Serbia. Hundreds were gathered into what the government called reception centers but local police officers were calling a new “alien holding center,” while construction crews were putting the finishing touches on a 12-foot fence topped with razor wire spanning the entire 108-mile border.
周日的时候，匈牙利当局开始采取行动，声称要阻止难民从与塞尔维亚接壤的南部边境涌入。数以百计的人聚集在政府所说的接待中心，但在当地警察口中那是一座新的“外国人收容中心”。与此同时，边境围栏的安装施工也接近尾声。这些围栏高12英尺（约合3.6米），上面装着铁丝网，覆盖了108英里长（约合170公里）的整条边界线。
In contrast, volunteers raced to rail stations in Austria and Germany to offer food, drink, toys and cigarettes to arriving migrants, applauding each train and emphasizing that the newcomers were welcome.
相比之下，志愿者们竞相前往奥地利和德国的火车站，为前来的难民发放食品、饮料、玩具和香烟。每有列车抵达，他们就鼓掌，对新来的人表示欢迎。
Several hundred people at Westbahnhof in Vienna encouraged migrants who had come from Hegyeshalom in Hungary to switch trains for Salzburg and on to Germany.
数以百计的人来到维也纳火车西站，鼓励来自匈牙利海杰什丘的难民换乘前往萨尔茨堡并继续去往德国的列车。
“It is such a unique feeling of closeness,” said Gioia Osthoff, an actress who turns 25 on Monday and was on her third consecutive day of helping migrants. “You give people things, they are grateful. Suddenly, a father who I don’t know was hugging me. The police, the railways, everyone is doing just the right thing.”
“这是一种很亲近的特殊感觉，”周一将满25岁的女演员焦亚·奥斯特霍夫(Gioia Osthoff)说。这已经是她连续第三天帮助移民。“你给他们东西，他们非常感激。有一次，一个父亲突然拥抱了我，其实我并不认识他。警方、铁路部门，大家都在做正确的事情。”
Asked why he joined the crowds at Westbahnhof, a well-known Austrian filmmaker, Franz Novotny, said simply: “Civic duty.”
著名的奥地利电影工作者弗朗茨·诺沃提尼(Franz Novotny)也加入了火车西站的欢迎人群。当被问及原因时，他的回答很干脆：“公民的义务。”
In Cyprus, the authorities said on Sunday that they had rescued 114 people believed to be refugees fleeing Syria after their fishing boat issued a distress call some 46 miles off the island’s southern coast, The Associated Press reported.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，塞浦路斯当局周日称，他们收到一艘渔船发出的遇险呼叫后，在距该岛南部海岸大约46英里外的海域救出了114人，据信他们是逃离叙利亚的难民。
Thousands of migrants continued to arrive on Lesbos and other Greek islands from Turkey. Greece ferried 1,744 migrants on Sunday from Lesbos to Athens, and a second vessel carrying as many as 2,500 migrants was expected to sail later in the day, heading north along the Balkan land route taken by tens of thousands of others in recent weeks.
数以千计的移民仍在不断从土耳其抵达希腊的莱斯沃斯等岛屿。希腊周日把1744名难民从莱斯沃斯岛运至雅典，第二艘运载多达2500名难民的船预计在当天晚些时候起航北进。最近几周，有数以万计的难民通过了同一方向的巴尔干半岛的陆路通道。
Chancellor Angela Merkel was to discuss the situation with her partners in her coalition government on Sunday evening. The Social Democrats back Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats in offering a determined welcome and insisting that Germany can afford to take in the expected arrivals.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)定于周日晚与联合政府的伙伴讨论形势。默克尔的基督教民主党(Christian Democrats)明确对难民予以欢迎，并坚称德国能够容纳预期抵达的难民。社会民主党(Social Democrats)对此表示支持。
But some members of the Christian Social Union, the more conservative party in Ms. Merkel’s center-right bloc, have raised objections.
不过，基督教社会联盟(Christian Social Union)的部分成员提出了反对。在默克尔领导的中右翼阵营中，该党偏保守。
Peter Altmaier, Ms. Merkel’s chief of staff, told a public broadcaster that the chancellor held talks throughout Saturday with German and European partners in an effort to get every European Union member to take in a share of refugees.
默克尔的幕僚长彼得·阿尔特迈尔(Peter Altmaier)对一家公共传播机构表示，总理周六一整天都在同德国和欧洲的伙伴举行会谈，努力让每一个欧盟成员国接收一部分难民。
“We have been facing this challenge for several months and we continue to take in refugees,” Mr. Altmaier said. “But we need a readiness in other European countries to join in.”
“几个月来我们一直在应对这个挑战，我们会继续接收难民，”阿尔特迈尔说。“但我们需要其他欧洲国家做好加入的准备。”
“I am convinced that the situation will normalize itself when we are able to come to a European consensus, as we did in the crisis in Ukraine, in the crisis in Greece, that is supported by all countries in Europe,” Mr. Altmaier said.
“我相信，如果我们能像在乌克兰危机和希腊危机时那样，在欧洲达成一致，得到所有欧洲国家的支持，那么这种局势自己就会正常化，”阿尔特迈尔说。
Austria faces a similar influx — 80,000 asylum applicants are expected this year in a country of eight million, about one-tenth the population of Germany. That prospect has bolstered far-right populists at the expense of the governing Social Democrats and conservatives, who face bellwether elections in Vienna in early October.
奥地利也面临着类似的难民涌入问题。该国人口800万，大约相当于德国人口的十分之一，今年预计会迎来8万人申请庇护。这种前景助长了极右翼民粹主义者的势头，削弱了执政的社会民主党和保守派的支持率。10月初，维也纳将迎来具有指向意义的选举。
Perhaps with an eye to the coming vote, Chancellor Werner Faymann said in a statement Sunday that after helping more than 12,000 people cross from Hungary this weekend, Austria would move gradually back to normal.
或许是意在即将到来的选举，奥地利总理维尔纳·法伊曼(Werner Faymann)在周日的一则声明中表示，在帮助了1.2万余名来自匈牙利的难民过境后，奥地利将逐步回归常态。
“We always said this is an emergency situation which has to be treated quickly and humanely,” said Mr. Faymann, who added that he had spoken several times with Ms. Merkel and Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary.
“我们一直强调这是紧急情况，必须予以迅速、人道的对待，”法伊曼说。他还表示已同默克尔和匈牙利总理欧尔班·维克托(Viktor Orban)通话多次。
A convoy of some 150 cars driven by Austrian volunteers headed toward Hungary on Sunday, with organizers saying they would pick up any refugees who wanted to go West. The police warned the drivers against exposing themselves to charges in Hungary that they were in effect smuggling people across borders.
周日，一支由奥地利志愿者驾驶的150辆车组成的车队驶向匈牙利。组织者声称他们会接上所有想去西方的难民。警方警告那些司机不要让自己在匈牙利遭到实际上是在帮人偷渡的指控。
Hungary’s behavior in recent days — allowing and then barring refugees from trains into Austria, and building the fence on its southern border with Serbia to discourage migrants from entering — has come under criticism from its 27 partners in the European Union.
最近几天，匈牙利先是允许、后来又禁止难民乘坐火车进入奥地利，还在南部与塞尔维亚的边境上竖起了围栏，防止移民进入。这些行为受到了它在欧盟的其他27个伙伴国家的指责。
Jean Asselborn, the foreign minister of Luxembourg, which now holds the rotating six-month presidency of the Council of the European Union, told German television on Sunday that Hungary and other former Communist nations in Central and Eastern Europe had gained not only rights but also shouldered responsibilities in joining the union.
周日，卢森堡外交大臣让·阿瑟伯恩(Jean Asselborn)对德国电视台表示，匈牙利等中欧和东欧的前共产主义国家加入欧盟时，获得的不仅是权利，还有要承担的责任。卢森堡眼下是欧盟理事会(Council of the European Union)的轮值主席国，任期半年。
It is important, Mr. Asselborn said, for the European Union to respond to an expected request from Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, to absorb 160,000 refugees under an agreed quota system.
欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席让-克洛德·容克(Jean-Claude Juncker)预计会提请欧盟根据一个商定好的配额制度接收16万难民。阿瑟伯恩表示，欧盟对此做出回应很重要。