VIENNA — Europe struggled on Monday with traffic backups on Hungary’s border with Austria, stalled trains packed with refugees bound for Germany and deepening policy confusion over the migrant crisis — punctuated by a warning from Germany’s leader that the European principle of open borders was at risk.
维也纳——本周一在欧洲，匈牙利与奥地利边境出现了交通阻塞，几列满载着难民前往德国的火车被拦下，而围绕移民危机的政策困惑进一步加剧——德国领导层还发出警告：欧洲的开放边境原则面临挑战。
The Austrian police, struggling to slow the influx of migrants from war-ravaged areas of the Middle East, Afghanistan and Africa, began checking vehicles crossing from Hungary overnight, finding 200 migrants and arresting at least five people suspected of being smugglers.
移民从中东、阿富汗和非洲一些饱受战火蹂躏的地区涌入奥地利，该国警方竭力减缓这种势头，开始检查来自匈牙利的夜行车辆，结果发现了200名移民，逮捕了至少5名涉嫌走私者。
Traffic stretched for miles on the Hungarian side of the border because of the traffic controls, but the Austrian authorities argued that they had no choice after the deaths of 71 migrants, including three children and a baby girl, whose decomposing bodies were found in a truck on a highway southeast of Vienna on Thursday.
由于交通管制，车辆长龙在匈牙利一方绵延十多英里之长，但奥地利当局表示，自上周在维也纳东南方向的一条公路上发现那辆满载尸体的卡车后，他们别无选择。卡车中有71名移民的尸体，其中包括三名儿童和一名女婴。
The clampdown also extended to at least four Austria-bound trains carrying hundreds of migrants, which were stopped at the Hungary-Austria border over what the authorities described as overcrowding, European news agencies reported. After several hours, three of the trains were allowed to proceed toward Vienna.
还有至少四列前往奥地利火车也遭到了管制，它们装载着数以百计的移民。据欧洲新闻社报道，当局说这些列车过度拥挤，遂在匈牙利-奥地利边境将它们拦下。数小时后，三辆列车获许继续开往维也纳。
The disruptions at the Hungary-Austria border have become the latest in a series of flash points in Europe’s crisis over how to accommodate the influx of desperate people. Clashes erupted less than two weeks ago between migrants and Macedonian officials who had sought to close their border, and British and French officials strengthened security around the 31-mile Channel Tunnel because of migrants’ attempts to smuggle themselves through it from France into Britain.
绝望人群的涌入欧洲，让欧洲面临着移民安置危机，匈牙利-奥地利边境的混乱只是该危机一系列爆发点的最新一个。不到两周之前，移民和试图关闭边界的马其顿官员之间爆发冲突，而在31英里长的英吉利海峡隧道，英国和法国官员加强了安保措施，因为移民试图通过它从法国偷渡到英国。
While thousands have drowned at sea trying to cross the Mediterranean and enter Europe, the mass deaths on the road in Austria shocked the Continent and reverberated around the world.
尽管已经有数以千计的人在试图穿越地中海进入欧洲的时候，淹死在了海中，但奥地利公路上发生的大规模死亡事件仍然震惊了欧洲大陆，并在全球引发反响。
“We want to save lives and fight the criminal smugglers,” said Johanna Mikl-Leitner, Austria’s interior minister. Asked how long the controls would be in place, she said the time period was “unlimited.”
“我们要拯救生命，打击从事人口贩卖的罪犯，”奥地利内政部长约翰娜·米克尔-莱特纳(Johanna Mikl-Leitner)说。当被问及这些管控措施将在何时结束时，她说“没有限期”。
The disaster in Austria highlighted Europe’s muddled response to a mass migration not seen since the end of World War II, with thousands arriving daily. Most of the new arrivals are crossing from Turkey to Greece, Macedonia and Serbia before entering Hungary and then heading to Europe’s wealthier northern countries — mostly to Germany.
奥地利发生的这场灾难，突显了欧洲在二战以来最大移民浪潮面前的混乱无序。每天有数以千计的人抵达欧洲，大部分新移民从土耳其进入希腊、马其顿和塞尔维亚，取道匈牙利，前往欧洲比较富裕的北方国家——主要是德国。
The crisis has now become a priority for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who told reporters on Monday that Europeans must uphold principles of justice and human rights in their response. She exhorted the European Union’s 27 other members to share the burden more equitably.
现在，处理移民危机已经成为德国总理默克尔最紧要的任务，本周一她对记者说，欧洲人在应对此事的时候，必须坚持公正和人权原则。她告诫欧盟的27个其他成员国，要更公平地分摊负担。
Otherwise, Ms. Merkel warned, the principle of unfettered movement among European Union member states, a freedom enshrined in what is known as the Schengen Agreement, would be endangered.
否则，默克尔警告说，在欧盟成员国中自由移动的原则就会受到损害。这个原则体现在申根协议(Schengen Agreement)中。
“If we don’t succeed in fairly distributing refugees then of course the Schengen question will be on the agenda for many,” Ms. Merkel said.
“如果我们不能公平地分配难民，那么议程中当然就会出现很多关于申根协议的问题，”默克尔说。
Hungary, however, accused Germany of creating new complications in the migrant crisis — and encouraging the influx — with what the Hungarians described as a relaxation of restrictions on Germany-bound refugees from Syria.
然而，匈牙利指责德国说，它正在移民危机中制造新的问题，并且鼓励移民涌入——因为在匈牙利人看来，德国“放宽了对前往德国的叙利亚难民的限制”。
“The resulting confusion has often created unclear circumstances and situations which are difficult to manage,” said Zoltan Kovacs, a Hungarian government spokesman, arguing that Hungary was doing its part to uphold the integrity of Europe’s external borders.
“由此产生的混乱，往往会造成不清晰的局面，以及难以管控的状况，”匈牙利政府发言人佐尔坦·科瓦奇( Zoltan Kovacs)说，他认为在维护欧洲外部边界的完整性上，匈牙利已经尽到了自己的努力。
“The Hungarian government requests that Germany clarifies the legal situation in order to eliminate this ambiguity and controversy,” he said.
“匈牙利政府要求德国澄清法律状况，以消除这种不确定性和争议，”他说。
Last Tuesday, Germany’s office for migration and refugees issued new guidelines for handling asylum applications from Syrians, stating that officials would “effectively no longer enforce” the Dublin Regulation, which establishes the criteria for such cases. Consequently, those fleeing Syria now have a strong chance of remaining in Germany, regardless of how they reached the country.
上周二，对于如何处理来自叙利亚的庇护申请，德国移民和难民部门发布了新的指导方针，称官员将“不再强制”按《都柏林公约》(Dublin Regulation)执行；该公约规定了处理这类情况的标准。因此，那些逃离叙利亚的难民现在有很大的机会留在德国，无论他们通过何种途径到达了该国。
The change comes as German officials scramble to expand the infrastructure to speed up the handling of asylum applications, and amid criticism that they had ignored warnings and failed to prepare for the humanitarian crisis.
这个变化到来之际，德国官员正在仓促扩大基础设施，以加快庇护申请的处理，而且人们也在批评德国无视警告，未能做好应对人道主义危机的准备。
The “truck of shame,” as the vehicle that was abandoned in Austria was labeled in a headline in the French daily Libération, was first spotted on the Hungarian side of the border around 9 a.m. on Wednesday, Austrian officials said at a news conference on Monday, when they released new details about the case.
那辆在奥地利被遗弃的卡车，被法国日报《解放报》( Libération)在一个标题中称为“耻辱卡车”。本周一，奥地利官员在公布这起案件新细节的新闻发布会上说，那辆卡车最初是在上周三上午9点左右，在匈牙利边境一侧被发现的。
A Hungarian truck driver told the police that he saw someone near the truck about half an hour later, said Konrad Kogler, director of public safety and security at the Austrian Interior Ministry. The vehicle was parked on the side of a highway linking Vienna to Budapest, Mr. Kogler said.
奥地利内政部公众安全主管康拉德·科勒尔(Konrad Kogler)说，约半小时后，一名匈牙利货车司机告诉警察，他看到过有人在那辆车附近。科勒尔说，卡车停在了连接维也纳到布达佩斯的公路的一侧。
That was not unusual in the area, where 3,000 trucks a day cross from Hungary into Austria and head west, he said. “Now, of course, we see it with different eyes,” he added.
他说这个地区每天有3000辆卡车从匈牙利进入奥地利，向西行驶，看到一辆卡车停在路边也很正常。“当然现在我们看它的眼光就不同了，”他说。
Autopsies being carried out in Vienna on the 71 bodies have yielded no identifications so far, Mr. Kogler said. He declined to speculate about other details, such as the time and cause of death, until the doctors had finished their examinations.
科勒尔说，71具尸体正在维也纳进行尸检，到目前为止还没有鉴定出任何人的身份。在医生们完成检验之前，他拒绝透露其他相关细节，比如死亡时间和原因等。
The Austrian police, who have sent reinforcements to Nickelsdorf, near the border with Hungary, detained five people suspected of being smugglers and discovered about 200 migrants, including 10 who were hidden in a truck with French license plates, Mr. Kogler said.
科勒尔说奥地利警方已向匈牙利边境附近的尼克尔斯多夫派出增援，拘捕了五名涉嫌走私者，发现了约200名移民，其中10人藏在一辆法国牌照的卡车里。
By Monday morning, traffic across the border, which is normally open under the European Union arrangements allowing passport-free travel, was backed up about 12 miles into Hungary, the traffic authorities said.
交通部门说，本周一上午，穿越边境的卡车在匈牙利境内排起了12英里的长龙。而根据欧盟协定，这个入口通常是开放的，无需护照就可以通过。
The Austrian police have apprehended 628 people suspected of being smugglers this year, compared with 277 in all of last year, he said.
科勒尔说，今年奥地利警方已逮捕了628名涉嫌走私者，而去年全年只逮捕了277人。
Acknowledging that the new controls would clog movement along a busy artery for European traffic, Mr. Kogler invited reporters to weigh the cost of human lives against “a few extra minutes in traffic.”
他承认，新的管制措施会堵塞这条繁忙的欧洲交通动脉，但他请记者衡量一下人命和“交通慢上几分钟”的代价孰大孰小。