More immigrants from Mexico are leaving the United States than coming into the country, according to a report published Thursday by the Pew Research Center, a finding that marks the end of the largest wave of immigration from a single country in American history.
皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)周四发布的报告显示，离开美国的墨西哥移民超过了来到美国的移民。这个发现标志着美国历史上来自单个国家的最大移民潮结束了。
The shift marks the first time since immigration from the neighboring nation began to rise in the 1970s that fewer Mexicans came into America than returned home, the Pew report found. The reversal is primarily the result of a steep drop in Mexicans coming into the country.
皮尤中心的报告发现，这一转变表明，自从1970年代来自邻国墨西哥的移民开始增加以来，来美国的墨西哥人总数首次不及返回墨西哥的人数。这一逆转的主要原因是来美墨西哥人总数急剧减少。
While the border debate, especially among the Republican candidates for the presidential nomination, has focused on extending walls and expanding other enforcement measures, the Pew report indicates that stepped-up border measures under the Obama administration have already helped significantly in reducing illegal crossings by Mexicans.
尽管围绕边境管控的辩论，尤其是角逐共和党提名的参选人之间的辩论，集中在扩建隔离设施和扩充执法措施上，但皮尤中心的报告表明，在奥巴马政府的领导下，加强的边境措施，对于减少墨西哥人非法越境起到了显著作用。
“We know that crossings are definitely down and we also know it is much more difficult and costly to cross now than it used to be,” said Ana Gonzalez-Barrera, a Pew research associate who is the author of the report. The slow recovery after the 2008 recession, particularly in construction and other low-paying jobs where many Mexicans had worked, is also a factor, she said.
“我们知道，越境人数明显减少了，我们也知道，现在的越境成本和难度远比过去高，”报告的作者、皮尤中心助理研究员安娜·冈萨雷斯-巴雷拉(Ana Gonzalez-Barrera)说。她表示，2008年经济衰退后复苏缓慢，特别是在很多墨西哥人从事的建筑和其他低薪领域，也是其中一个因素。
Using census data from both the United States and Mexico, the Pew report found that from 2009 to 2014, slightly more than a million Mexicans and their families — including about 100,000 children under 5 years old who were American citizens born in the United States — returned to live in Mexico. In the same period, an estimated 870,000 Mexicans came here, resulting in an outflow of about 140,000.
皮尤中心的报告使用了美国和墨西哥的人口普查数据。报告发现，从2009年到2014年，回国的墨西哥人及家人略多于100万，其中包括大约10万名5岁以下的孩子。这些孩子在美国出生，属于美国公民。同期，来美的墨西哥人估计为87万。因此，美国总计流失了约14万人。
“We think Mexican migration is definitely in a new phase, and it will not return to the levels it once had,” Ms. Gonzalez-Barrera said.
“我们认为，墨西哥移民显然进入了一个新阶段，不会回到曾经的水平，”冈萨雷斯-巴雷拉说。
Last year, the number of Mexicans caught crossing the border illegally — an imperfect but still widely used indicator of overall illegal crossings — dropped to 230,000, according to official figures, the lowest level since 1971.
从官方数据来看，去年被发现非法越境的墨西哥人总数降至23万，是自1971年以来的最低水平。这是一个并不完美，但却被广泛用来衡量总体非法越境情况的指标。
The end of the influx has led to a decline in the numbers of Mexican immigrants in the United States, Pew reported, to 11.7 million in 2014, down from a peak of 12.8 million in 2007. Most of the decline can be attributed to a drop in the number of Mexicans here illegally, to 5.6 million last year from an estimated 6.9 million in 2007. Mexicans are by far the largest nationality among undocumented immigrants.
皮尤中心的报告称，大规模流入的结束，导致美国境内的墨西哥移民人数减少，从2007年的峰值1280万人，降到了2014年的1170万人。这种减少大部分可视为美国境内墨西哥非法移民减少的结果。去年，这个群体的规模有560万人，而2007年时，其规模估计为690万。迄今为止，在无证件移民中，墨西哥人依然是规模最大的群体。
Reviewing Mexican census data, Pew reported that most Mexicans left the United States “of their own accord,” with about six in 10 migrants who returned home saying they were reuniting with family members. About 6 percent said they had found jobs there.
皮尤中心查阅了墨西哥的人口普查数据，并报告称大部分墨西哥人是“自愿”离开美国的。其中大约60%的返墨移民称是为了和家人团聚，约6%的人表示在墨西哥找到了工作。
Another 14 percent said they had been deported. Ms. Gonzalez-Barrera said that figure might not reflect all Mexican residents expelled by the United States authorities, because many Mexican deportees have said they crossed again illegally to return to families or jobs in the United States.
还有14%的人称自己是被驱逐出境的。冈萨雷斯-巴雷拉表示，这个数字可能无法反映被美国政府驱逐出境的所有墨西哥人的情况，因为很多被驱逐的墨西哥人表示他们再次非法越境，回到了在美国的家中或工作岗位上。
In the 50-year wave of migration since 1965, more than 16 million Mexicans came here, far more than from any other country, Pew has reported. Mexicans are still the largest immigrant group in the country.
墨西哥移民潮始于1965年。皮尤中心的报告称，在这50年里，有1600多万墨西哥人来到美国，远比其他任何国家都多。墨西哥人依然是美国最大的移民群体。
But in recent years, the country has seen a surge in immigrants from Asia, primarily China and India. China is pulling up to Mexico, but Pew found that it was not clear from current data whether China has become the leading immigrant country.
但近年来，来自亚洲，主要是中国和印度的移民急剧增加。中国正在赶超墨西哥，但皮尤中心发现，从目前的数据中尚无法确定，中国是否已经成为了美国的头号移民来源国。
“Asian immigrants are rising and they are mostly coming here legally,” Ms. Gonzalez-Barrera said. “It is going to bring big changes in the composition of American immigration.”
“亚洲移民在增加，他们主要是通过合法途径来美国的，”冈萨雷斯-巴雷拉说。“这会给美国的移民构成带来很大的变化。”