THERE was a time, long before Home Depot and cement mixers, when people had to build their homes from nearby materials. Centuries ago, the Indians of the Southwest used a mix of sand, clay, straw and water to make adobe homes. The Chinese constructed houses out of bamboo, and the English used a combination of straw and moist earth known as cob.
很久以前，早在家得宝（Home Depot，北美最大的家居连锁店——译注）和混凝土搅拌机出现之前，人们都是用家附近的材料盖房子的。几百年前，印度西南地区的人们用沙子、泥土、稻草和水混合起来，建造土坯砖房；中国人用竹子建房子；英国人则用稻草和湿润的泥土混合起来，建造圆堡形的土砖房。
The old ways never died out entirely, but they fell into disuse as new manufacturing techniques led to houses made with two-by-fours, concrete and steel. Now a form of construction known as “natural building” has attracted followers, as people realize that some housing traditions may be worth reprising — in large part because of the energy savings they can yield.
古老的建筑方法虽然不会彻底消失，但随着新的制造技术的出现，老方法渐渐被混凝土和钢筋取代。最近，一种名为“自然建筑”的建筑形式吸引了大批追随者。因为人们意识到，一些房屋建造传统是值得发扬光大的——主要因为这样做可以节约能源。
Homes built with natural materials like straw, sand, earth and rock conserve energy in two ways: Using them cuts down on the pollution that results from producing and transporting manufactured materials, and once the homes are built they can significantly reduce energy costs and consumption.
用诸如稻草、沙子、泥土和石头等天然原材料建造房屋，可以从两个方面节约能源：用这些天然材料可以大幅降低制造和运输人造建筑材料过程中产生的污染；一旦房子建成后，更可以大幅度降低能源的耗费。
There are drawbacks: labor costs can be high and concerns raised by city officials and inspectors have the potential to hinder construction. But two processes — using straw bales and rammed earth, a material similar to adobe — are making inroads.
它也有缺点：人工成本会很高；且市政官员和建筑监理们提出的担忧，可能成为一种潜在的阻碍。但有两项方法——对稻草垛和类似于土坯砖的夯土的使用，正获得突破。
Catherine Wanek, co-author of “The Art of Natural Building: Design, Construction, Resources” and a straw bale proponent, said that even though most naturally built homes have electricity and other modern comforts, they can still be designed “to capture the winter sun when we need it and keep out the summer sun when we don’t want it.”
凯瑟琳·万尼克(Catherine Wanek)是《自然建筑的艺术：设计、建造、资源》(The Art of Natural Building: Design, Construction, Resources)这本书的联合作者之一，也是使用稻草砖的支持者。她说，尽管大部分以自然材料建造的住宅通了电，也有其他现代化的舒适设备，但它们仍然能被设计得“当我们需要阳光时，能捕获冬日里的阳光；当我们不需要太阳时，能将夏日骄阳阻隔在外”。
Straw has been mixed with earth to build houses since the beginning of human habitation, she said, and in the 19th century the invention of the baling machine vastly sped up construction.
她还说，自从人类开始定居伊始，人们就用草和泥土混合起来建房子了。到了19世纪，随着压捆机的发明，建筑速度获得了大幅提高。
Using straw bales in modern homes is inexpensive because it is a byproduct of grain crops like wheat, rye, oats, barley and rice. The straw must be fully encased in plaster, often made of lime or clay, to protect it from insects, rodents, wind, fire and especially moisture.
而在现代住宅中使用稻草砖的价格更为低廉，因为稻草是生产诸如小麦、黑麦、燕麦、大麦和大米等谷类作物时的副产品。稻草必须用灰泥完全包裹住，常用的是石灰或黏土，这样才能避免其受到昆虫、啮齿类动物、大风、火以及尤其是潮气的侵害。
Once the house is built, the hollowness of the individual stalks traps air in tiny pockets, creating natural insulation. “You can stack those bales like giant bricks to create a super insulating system,” said Ms. Wanek, who built a straw bale greenhouse to capture solar energy for the 1880s stone lodge she runs in Kingston, N.M.
一旦房子建成，每根稻草中空的秆内都会贮存一定量的空气，这样就能起到自然隔热的作用。“你可以把那些像巨大砖头一样的草砖堆起来，创造出一个超级隔热系统，”万尼克说。她在新墨西哥州的金斯顿(Kingston)经营着一家19世纪80年代的石头旅店，还为其用稻草砖建了一座温室房来储备太阳能。
The insulation efficiency (the so-called R-value) of straw bale walls is about the same as for fiberglass insulation, Ms. Wanek said. The bales’ superior energy performance comes from the fact that they are so thick compared with fiberglass-insulated walls.
万尼克介绍说，稻草砖墙的隔热效率（也就是所谓的“R值”）几乎和玻璃纤维的隔热效率相当。稻草砖的卓越节能性来源于，它们的厚度同玻璃纤维墙相比要大得多。
As for cost, including labor, building with straw bales can be comparable to a custom-built conventional home, she said. After a straw home is built, and especially with solar energy collection, the energy savings are great, she said. “Roughly we find that you save approximately two-thirds or more of your heating and cooling energy over conventional construction,” she said. She estimates that there are between 7,000 and 8,000 straw bale homes in the United States.
至于建造成本，包含人工费在内，建造一座稻草砖房与建造一座传统住宅的费用相当。但是稻草砖房一旦建好后，尤其是如果它还配有储存太阳能的设配，就将大大节约能源。她说：“与传统住宅相比，你将节约三分之二甚至更多的制冷或制热耗能。”她估计美国大约有7000至8000座稻草砖房。
Richard Mandelbaum, 43, and his wife, Gabrielle Kahn, 41, built a straw bale home 10 years ago in a wooded area in Forestburgh, N.Y., in southern New York State. They split their time between Forestburgh and a rental apartment in Brooklyn. Their use of electricity and fuel in the 1,100-square-foot Forestburgh house is low, since they don’t use air-conditioning, and a wood stove provides heat.
大约10年前，43岁的理查德·曼德尔鲍姆(Richard Mandelbaum)和他41岁的太太加百利·康恩(Gabrielle Kahn)在纽约州南部林区的福里斯特堡(Forestburgh)建造了一座稻草砖房。他们时而住在福里斯特堡，时而住在布鲁克林的租用公寓里。在面积1100平方英尺（约合122平方米）的福里斯特堡家中，电和燃料的消耗量很低，因为他们不用空调，仅用一个烧柴的火炉取暖。
“We knew we wanted to build in a more natural and eco-friendly way, not just because you can make it efficient and save money,” but also because it was better for the environment, Mr. Mandelbaum said. The walls are made of New York rye; the plaster is made of clay and sand from the area; and the roof insulation is from recycled cotton. It cost about $130,000 to build the house; the baled rye, from a local dealer, was a little over $1,000.
“我们知道自己想要以一种更加天然环保的方式建造住房，不仅是因为这样更加高效且省钱，”还因为这样做对环境更好，曼德尔鲍姆说。房屋的墙壁是用纽约黑麦做的，灰泥是用这一地区的黏土和沙子做的；屋顶保温层是用再生棉做的。这座房子的建造成本大约是13万美元（约合人民币79万元）；从当地农民那里买来的黑麦垛才花了1000多美元（约合人民币6093元）而已。
Mr. Mandelbaum says he enjoys the look and feel of the house, adding that the walls are “rounded and organic.” He says the finished product reminds him of adobe, which may be a reason that straw bale is popular in New Mexico.
曼德尔鲍姆说，他非常喜欢这座房子的外观和给人的感觉，并补充说，墙壁是“圆润的、有机的”。他说，建好的房子让他想起土坯房，或许这也是稻草砖房在新墨西哥州流行的原因之一。
In New Mexico, adobe bricks have never gone out of style. But efforts to expand adobe construction are hampered by the fact that it can crack during an earthquake. So a cousin of adobe, rammed earth, is slowly gaining adherents in the West and elsewhere.
在新墨西哥州，土坯砖一直很流行。但是因为地震时土坯砖盖的房子容易坍塌，这就为土坯砖建筑的推广造成了阻碍。因此，土坯砖的“表亲”夯土砖在西部及其它地方慢慢积攒着人气。
Rammed earth walls are made of subsoils (which lack the organic content of topsoil) on or near the housing site. To meet building codes, a small percentage of cement must be added to the mix. A hand-held pneumatic tool packs a mix of local subsoils into a temporary wooden form to construct the walls.
夯土砖墙是由从地面以下挖出的土壤制成的，这种土壤少有地表土壤所含的有机物，就从房子建造的地点或附近挖掘即可。为满足建筑标准，里面必须添加一小部分水泥。用一个手持填充设备将当地的地下土灌入一个临时木制框架中，就建成了这样的土墙。
Rammed earth has a lower R-value than fiberglass, but it is “tremendous at storing thermal energy,” said David Easton, a builder and founder of Rammed Earth Works, based in Napa, Calif. In other words, it takes a long time for the outside temperature to make its way inside. Houses made of rammed earth perform best in climates with a high “diurnal swing” — for example, in New Mexico and California — so that cooler temperatures at night can keep the house comfortable during the day.
夯土砖的R值比玻璃纤维略低，但是它“储存热能的能力惊人”，夯土工坊(Rammed Earth Works)的建造者和创始人大卫·阿斯顿(David Easton) 介绍说。这间工坊坐落于加利福尼亚州的纳帕山谷(Napa)。换句话说，室外的温度需要花更长时间才能传导进室内。在那些日间温差较大的地区，比如新墨西哥州和加利福尼亚州，这种用夯土砖建成的房子表现最佳，夜间的凉爽气温会让房子在整个白天都很舒服。
The homes can be costly because much of the labor must be done on-site. Mr. Easton, who has built about 300 rammed earth homes, is working on developing smaller blocks of earth that can be transported, which would reduce labor costs considerably, he said.
房子的造价高，大部分原因在于它必须现场施工。阿斯顿已经建造了大约300座夯土砖房子，目前他正致力于研发一种体积较小、运输方便的夯土砖，可以在很大程度上降低劳动成本，他说。
After Rick Torcasso, the chief executive of a marketing company, decided to build a rammed earth home on a mountain in Santa Fe, N.M., the builders used subsoil from the mountain itself as construction material. The 5,500-square-foot house cost $4 million to build.
里克·托卡索(Rick Torcasso)是一家市场营销公司的执行总裁，他决定在新墨西哥州的圣达菲(Santa Fe)建造一座夯土砖住宅。建筑工人们就从当地的山上挖取地下土，作为建筑材料。这座5500平方英尺（约合611平方米）的房子建造成本是400万美元（约合人民币2438万元）。
Mr. Torcasso, 59, uses a computer to automatically regulate his home’s heating and air-conditioning. Last July, a very hot one, the air-conditioner was on only 8 percent of the time, Mr. Torcasso said. His electricity bill was $22 that month, partly because of credits he receives for using solar energy.
现年59岁的托卡索用一台计算机来自动控制他家的供暖和空调系统。去年7月，尽管天气非常炎热，家中开空调的时段比例只有8%。他当月的电费账单才22美元（约合人民币134元），当然，部分也是因为他使用了太阳能。
Juliet Hsu, a 34-year-old architect, has radiant heat floors but no air-conditioning in the rammed earth house she designed for herself and her husband, Jack Menzel, in Mountain View, Calif. (Mr. Menzel works for Google, which is based there.) The 2,200-square-foot house, where they have lived for two years, cost $500,000 to build; the builder, Mr. Easton, is Mr. Menzel’s stepfather.
34岁的建筑设计师朱丽叶·许(Juliet Hsu)为自己和丈夫杰克·门泽尔(Jack Menzel)设计了一栋夯土砖住宅，其中安装了地热地板，但没有装空调。他们的房子位于加利福尼亚州的山景城(Mountain View)（门泽尔为谷歌公司工作，那里是公司所在地）。这栋2200平方英尺（约合244平方米）的房子建造成本为50万美元（约合人民币305万元），已经入住两年。房子的建造者阿斯顿正是门泽尔的继父。
Mr. Torcasso and Ms. Hsu said that living in a rammed earth home is aesthetically appealing. The striation created by the layers of soil creates “beautiful lines,” Ms. Hsu said.
托卡索和朱丽叶·许都说，在夯土砖房里居住是种美的享受。层层泥土产生的条纹创造出了“美丽的线条”。许说。
Neither had more than the usual issues with obtaining permits, but in some cases, “contractors don’t know how to build that way and code officials have to figure out new rules,” said Larry Speck, an architect based in Austin., Tex., and a professor at the University of Texas at Austin.
拉里·斯佩克(Larry Speck)是位于德克萨斯奥斯汀(Austin)的德克萨斯大学的教授，也是奥斯汀当地的一位建筑设计师。他说，要获得建造这类房屋的许可，也不过涉及一些常规性事务；但在一些案例中，“建筑承包商并不清楚应该如何修建这样的房子，所以法规制定者们需要研究出一些新的规定。”
“Most inspectors are not familiar with the building processes for rammed earth or straw bale homes and have no idea what the inspection concerns are,” said Nick Gromicko, founder of the International Association of Certified Home Inspectors.
“大部分建筑监理不熟悉建造夯土砖房或稻草砖房的过程，不知道在监理过程中应该注意什么。”国际标准住宅监理协会(International Association of Certified Home Inspectors)的创始人尼克·格洛米科(Nick Gromicko)说。
Professor Speck says he hopes that builders and officials will become more knowledgeable, because “what could be greener than using the material that’s sitting right there?” Not only that, he said, but “the actual building materials themselves are contributing to the comfort of the people in the house.”
斯佩克教授说，他希望建筑者和官员们能掌握更多知识，因为“还有什么比就地取材建房子更加绿色环保呢？”不止是这个，他说，“这些建筑材料本身，确实让住在房子里的人感到更加舒适。”