CAIRO — A criminal court here convicted former President Hosni Mubarak on Wednesday of embezzling millions of dollars of public money for his personal use in private homes and palaces, in a case that rights advocates say could now implicate the current prime minister and spy chief.
开罗——周三，开罗一家刑事法院判定埃及前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)挪用数百万美元公款，投入私宅和官邸等私人用途。权益倡导人士称，此案可能会牵连现任总理和情报局长。
After his conviction by the three-judge court, Mr. Mubarak, who is 86 and living in a military hospital overlooking the Nile, was sentenced to three years in prison. His sons, Gamal and Alaa, were each sentenced to four years for their roles in the embezzlement scheme. The court ordered the three to pay penalties and make repayments totaling more than $20 million, apparently in addition to $17 million they have already repaid.
三名法官组成的法庭判定穆巴拉克有罪，并判处他三年监禁。穆巴拉克现年86岁，居住在尼罗河边的一家军事医院里。他的儿子贾迈勒(Gamal)和阿莱(Alaa)也因参与前述侵占公款案而分别被判四年监禁。法庭还命令三人缴纳罚金，归还总额逾2000万美元的侵占款，这个数字显然不包括他们已另行归还的1700万美元。
The former president received a life sentence in a separate case two years ago, for directing the killing of hundreds of protesters during the uprising that ended his rule in 2011. But the presiding judge acknowledged at the time that the evidence was thin, and an appeals court threw out the conviction and ordered a retrial.
两年前，这位前总统被判处终身监禁，因为他在2011年终结其统治的起义中主使当局杀害了数百名抗议者。不过，主审法官当时承认证据薄弱，上诉法院随即推翻裁决，下令重审该案。
Mr. Mubarak is expected to appeal the latest verdict as well, although the evidence in this case — including more than a thousand original and forged receipts as well as the testimony of participants in the fraud — is far more substantial.
预计穆巴拉克也会就最近的判决提出上诉，尽管此案的证据远比上次审判充足，其中包括一千多张原始收据和伪造收据，以及一些欺诈参与者的证词。
Mr. Mubarak “gave himself and his sons license to embezzle public funds, helping themselves without oversight or consideration,” Judge Osama Shaheen said in announcing the verdict on Wednesday. “They deserve to be punished.”
周三，法官奥萨马·沙欣(Osama Shaheen)在宣读判决时表示，穆巴拉克“本人挪用公款，不受监管、毫无顾忌地谋取私利，并且纵容其子这么做。他们应该受到惩罚。”
Whether Mr. Mubarak remains in the military hospital by his own choice or under a form of detention is unclear, and there were no signs of his immediate transfer to prison on Wednesday.
目前还不清楚，穆巴拉克是自愿待在前述军事医院，还是在那里接受某种形式的关押。此外，并无迹象显示当局会在周三把他直接转往监狱。
But the new conviction may spare the government installed last summer by the country’s defense minister, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, a potential embarrassment: the chance that Mr. Mubarak might be a free man again. Mr. Sisi led the ouster of Egypt’s first freely elected president last summer and, having resigned from the military in March to run for president, is now expected to succeed him after a pro forma election next week. Critics accuse him of returning Egypt to a Mubarak-style autocracy.
不过，新判决也许会让埃及国防部长阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西上将(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)于去年夏天组建的政府免于一场尴尬，因为它阻止了穆巴拉克重获自由。去年夏天，塞西领头罢黜了埃及第一位经自由选举产生的总统，今年3月，他辞去军职以角逐总统宝座。目前，人们预计他会在下周的过场式选举之后接任总统一职。批评者指责他让埃及回到了穆巴拉克式的独裁统治之下。
Mr. Sisi has sought to portray his rise to power as an extension of the 2011 uprising and has vowed not to allow a return of the high-level corruption that flourished during Mr. Mubarak’s three decades in power.
塞西一直在努力把自己掌权的过程描绘成2011年起义的延伸，并已誓称不让埃及重新陷入严重的腐败，在穆巴拉克当政的30年里，腐败四处蔓延。
But Mr. Mubarak’s conviction could create problems for other high-ranking Egyptians. Under the embezzlement scheme, prosecutors said, public funds were diverted with the complicity of the state-run construction company the Arab Contractors. Its chairman at the time was Ibrahim Mehlib, who is now prime minister of the government Mr. Sisi installed. And a corruption investigator who built the case has filed a lawsuit that contends his former boss — Gen. Mohamed Farid el-Tohamy, once a high-ranking corruption watchdog — suppressed the inquiry and covered up the evidence. General Tohamy, a mentor to Mr. Sisi during his army career, is now the new government’s chief of general intelligence.
不过，对穆巴拉克的判决可能会给其他一些埃及高层人士造成麻烦。检方表示，在这起侵占公款的案件中，国有建筑公司阿拉伯建筑公司(Arab Contractors)与被告串通，转移了公款。时任该公司董事长的易卜拉欣·马赫莱卜(Ibrahim Mehlib)现在是塞西组建的政府的总理。此外，为此案提供证据的一名腐败调查人员已经提起诉讼，称他的前领导——曾经位高权重的腐败监督官员穆罕默德·法里德·托哈米(Mohamed Farid el-Tohamy)将军——压制调查，掩盖证据。托哈米将军担任军职期间是赛西的导师，现在则是新政府情报总局的负责人。
The court on Wednesday found Mr. Mubarak and his sons guilty of embezzling more than $17 million over an eight-year period that ended in 2011. In court filings, the prosecutors accused the Mubaraks of fraudulently billing the government for personal expenses — including utility bills, interior design, landscaping, home furnishings, refrigerators, other electrical appliances and even kitchen supplies — for a variety of private homes as well as a public palace that was fraudulently transferred to their ownership.
法庭周三判定，穆巴拉克及其子在截至2011年的八年时间里挪用了超过1700万美元，相关罪名成立。在法庭文件中，检方控诉穆巴拉克家族以欺诈手段将大量用于私人住宅及一处官邸的个人支出列为政府开支，支出项目包括水电费账单、室内设计、景观美化、家居用品、冰箱、其他电器乃至厨房用品，而该处官邸也已被他们以欺诈手段转入自己名下。
Many expenses related to five vacation homes that the family owned near the seaside resort city of Sharm el-Sheikh as well as a farm east of Cairo. The family also billed the state to design and furnish a private office in a luxury hotel complex for Mr. Mubarak’s wife and an office that the sons used to run an investment business. Other expenses included the renovation of a villa and the installation of an elevator to the roof of one home and a Jacuzzi for another. The government paid for a new palace wing to accommodate the birth of a Mubarak granddaughter and for a mausoleum for a grandson who had died.
许多开支都与穆巴拉克家族在海滨度假城市沙姆沙伊赫拥有的五处度假屋，以及开罗东边的一处农场有关。穆巴拉克家族还把穆巴拉克之妻在一处豪华酒店大楼里的私人办公室，以及他儿子用来开办投资公司的办公室的设计和装修账单算在了国家头上。其他开支项目包括一处别墅的翻新、为一座房屋安装直达屋顶的电梯，以及为另一处房屋安装按摩浴缸。穆巴拉克家族为一座宅邸新修了侧翼，以便迎接穆巴拉克一个孙女的出生，还为穆巴拉克一个死去的孙子修建了陵墓，这些都是政府买的单。
All the expenses were fraudulently recorded as the costs of work on a special presidential telecommunications system that is maintained by the Arab Contractors. The prosecutors named two low-level Arab Contractors employees as collaborators; the court declined to rule on their guilt or innocence on Wednesday for technical reasons.
所有这些花费都被虚报为建造一个总统专用通讯系统的花销，维护该系统的正是阿拉伯建筑公司。检方已将该公司两名级别较低的雇员指为共犯。因为技术原因，法庭并未在周三裁定这两人是否有罪。
But the initial investigation into the case also found that Mr. Mehlib, a close ally of the Mubaraks, knowingly approved of the diversion, according to court papers reviewed by The New York Times and described in the online publication Mada Masr. In depositions, witnesses said Mr. Mehlib had supervised work on some of the personal projects, although there is no documentation showing that he knew how the work was paid.
不过，根据在线出版物Mada Masr提及并经《纽约时报》查阅的法庭文件，针对此案的初步调查还发现，作为穆巴拉克的亲密盟友，马赫莱卜在知情的情况下批准了费用转嫁行为。相关证人在证词中称，马赫莱卜监督了部分私人项目的工作，但没有文件表明他知晓这些工作的费用由谁支付。