CAIRO — Held incommunicado for the four months since his overthrow as president, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood walked into a makeshift courtroom on Monday for his new role as a defendant in a murder trial.
开罗——被从总统的位子上赶下来后，穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)领导人穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)已经被关押4个月，无法与外界联系。周一，他走进了一间临时当作法庭的场所，这次他是一名谋杀案中的被告。
But Mr. Morsi, dressed in a blue suit, refused even to wear the usual all-white prisoner’s costume.
然而，穆尔西身穿蓝色西装，他甚至拒绝穿上按惯例犯人应该穿的全白色衣服。
“I want a microphone so I can talk to you,” Mr. Morsi shouted three times from a special defendant’s cage constructed to obscure him from public view. “There is a military coup in the country,” he shouted, adding, “I am the president of the republic, according to the Constitution of the state, and I am forcibly detained!”
“我需要一个麦克风，这样我才能跟你说话，”穆尔西坐在被告席上，他大喊了三遍，被告席经过专门设置，好让公众无法清楚看到穆尔西的样子。“这个国家发生了军事政变，”他大喊道。他还说，“根据国家宪法，我是这个共和国的总统，而我遭到了强制关押！”
Repeatedly cited by the new government as evidence of its adherence to the rule of law, the trial instead threatened to embarrass its leadership, with the defendants and their lawyers seizing a rare platform to question the military takeover. Islamists around Egypt were galvanized by Mr. Morsi’s show of defiance as the judge failed to gavel him into silence and instead adjourned the trial for two months.
新政府曾反复提到这次审判，称它是政府尊重法治的证据，然而，随着被告和他们的律师利用这一罕见平台来质疑军方接管政权，这场审判反而有了让新政府领导层陷入尴尬的危险。在法庭上，法官猛敲木槌也没能让穆尔西安静下来，这种情况下，穆尔西的反抗让埃及各地的伊斯兰主义者士气大增。法官宣布休庭，将审理推迟到两个月之后。
And the timing, analysts said, also proved awkward for Secretary of State John Kerry. On a visit to Cairo just a day before, he had said that — despite a series of mass killings of protesters, the shutdown of opposition media outlets, and apparently politicized trials like Mr. Morsi’s — “so far there are indications” that the generals who ousted Egypt’s first elected president intended to “restore democracy.”
而且，分析人士称，审判的时机也让美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)颇为尴尬。就在一天前访问开罗时，克里还说“到目前为止有迹象表明”，把埃及首位民选总统赶下台的将军们打算“重建民主”——尽管这里发生了一系列杀戮抗议者的事件、当局关闭了反对派媒体，并开展了一系列与审判穆尔西相似的显然很政治化的审判。
The visit was “unbelievable timing,” said Michael Wahid Hanna, an Egypt scholar at the Century Foundation in New York. He argued that opponents of the Islamists would see the trip as an American effort to protect Mr. Morsi, while Islamists would hear Mr. Kerry’s “soft and optimistic statements as a U.S. blessing to the new military-led political order.”
位于纽约的世纪基金(Century Foundation)的埃及问题学者迈克尔·瓦希德·汉纳(Michael Wahid Hanna)说，克里选择的“访问时机令人惊讶”。汉纳说，反对伊斯兰派的人会认为克里此次出访是为了保护穆尔西，而伊斯兰派则会把克里“温和乐观的声明，当成美国对军方领导下的新政治秩序的支持”。
It was the second criminal prosecution of an ousted Egyptian president in the same venue within less than three years. But in a reversal of the dynamic during the live broadcast of Hosni Mubarak’s trial in 2011,, on Monday the hearing quickly devolved into a tug of war over just how much attention Mr. Morsi could receive. “Mubarak was hiding from the cameras, and now they are hiding the cameras from Morsi,” said Emad Shahin, a political scientist at the American University in Cairo, who called the new government’s rush to trial “a miscalculation” because “this will increase the perception of him as a hero, an icon for the resistance.”
此次对穆尔西庭审是不到三年时间里在同一个场所，第二次对遭到罢黜的总统进行刑事检控。然而，和2011年对胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)审判的现场直播相比，如今的形势完全不同。周一，这次庭审很快变成了一场有关穆尔西能获得多少关注的拉锯战。“当年穆巴拉克是在躲摄像机，而现在他们在让摄像机躲着穆尔西，”开罗美国大学(American University in Cairo)政治学者伊马德·沙欣(Emad Shahin)说道，他认为新政府匆忙进行的审判是“一次错误判断”，因为“这会进一步让人们把他看成英雄、一个反抗的象征人物”。
Along with 14 Islamist allies or presidential staff members named as defendants, Mr. Morsi was charged with inciting the murders of at least three protesters, and if convicted, any of the defendants could face the death penalty.
穆尔西和另外14名被列为被告的伊斯兰派盟友或总统幕僚一起，被指控唆使了对至少三名抗议者的谋杀。如果被定罪，任何一名被告都可能会被判处死刑。
Only six of his fellow defendants appeared in court with him, including the prominent Brotherhood leaders Essam el-Erian and Mohamed Beltagy, All wore the standard white jumpsuit of a criminal defendant; only Mr. Morsi refused.
只有其他6名被告同穆尔西一起出庭，其中包括穆兄会高级领导人埃萨姆·埃里安(Essam el-Erian)和穆罕默德·贝尔塔吉(Mohamed Beltagy)，他们都穿着给罪犯准备的标准的白色连体囚服；只有穆尔西拒绝这么做。
Journalists were allowed into the courtroom, but they were barred from bringing cameras, recording devices or telephones, so that Egyptian state media were the only ones to control audio or video clips.
记者被允许进入法庭，但不能携带摄像机、录音设备或电话，这样一来，埃及官方媒体就对音频或视频片段有了绝对掌控。
Many of the Egyptian journalists who were allowed inside the trial chanted repeatedly for Mr. Morsi’s execution.
许多获准旁听审判的埃及记者多次齐声高呼，要求处决穆尔西。
Rights advocates said the most serious charges appeared both selective and difficult to prove. All involve a bloody night of street fighting last December between thousands of Mr. Morsi’s Islamist supporters and their opponents outside the presidential palace.
权利倡导人士称，最严重的指控似乎既有选择性，同时又难以证实。所有的指控都涉及去年12月某天夜晚发生的一场血腥的街头冲突，当时在总统府外，成千上万名支持穆尔西的伊斯兰主义者和反对者们发生了对抗。
Others allegations involve abuses that took place as the street battle raged on. Mr. Morsi’s supporters captured, beat and interrogated dozens of his opponents. In the morning, the Islamists sought to turn them over to prosecutors, expecting criminal charges for assaulting the palace. But the prosecutors immediately released them.
其他的指控则涉及在街头斗殴愈演愈烈的情况下发生的暴力事件。穆尔西的支持者抓捕、殴打并审问了数十名他的反对者。第二天早上，伊斯兰派寻求将这些人交给检察官，希望能以攻击总统府的罪名起诉他们。但检察官立即释放了这些反对者。
Prosecutors said Monday that they would also charge Mr. Morsi with conspiring in those detentions.
周一，检方表示，他们还会指控穆尔西参与谋划了上述拘押活动。
Thousands of opponents of the military takeover demonstrated in two locations near major courts in Cairo, and thousands more demonstrated in other cities. Clashes with the police and several injuries were reported in Alexandria.
数以千计反对军方接管政权的人们在开罗主要法院附近的两个地点举行了示威，另外还有成千上万人在其他城市举行示威。据报道，在亚历山大，抗议者和警察发生了冲突，并造成数人受伤。
Islamist-led demonstrations against the takeover have continued at least weekly in most cities around the country. But on Monday those in Cairo appeared to be dispersing by the time that trial came to a close in the early afternoon.
在埃及全国大多数城市，由伊斯兰派领导的，反对军方接管政权的示威活动一直在继续，至少每周会举行一次抗议。但是，周一下午早些时候，审判快结束时，开罗的示威人群似乎开始散去。
At 1:35 p.m., a cheer rose up outside the court as a helicopter lifted off to transport Mr. Morsi from the trial, in a police academy auditorium. He was taken to a prison in Alexandria, Egyptian state media said.
下午1:35，一架直升机载着穆尔西离开了接受审判的场所，一个警察学院的礼堂，法庭外的人群爆发出一阵欢呼。埃及官方媒体称，穆尔西被带到了亚历山大的一个监狱。
State media reported that for the first time Mr. Morsi was being treated like an ordinary prisoner, forced to submit to the standard admissions checkup and wear the standard prison jumpsuit.
埃及官方媒体报道称，穆尔西第一次被当成普通犯人对待，被强制接受收监检查，穿标准的连体囚服。
By nighttime, state television was broadcasting a short, silent video clip of Mr. Morsi in a defendant’s cage. The website of the flagship state newspaper, Al Ahram, reported the diagnosis of a psychologist that Mr. Morsi’s refusal to wear prison clothes suggested “attempts to deny reality,” suggesting “he is unable to bear the pain of loss and failure.”
晚上的时候，官方电视台播放了一段没有声音的视频片段。视频中，穆尔西在被告席上。埃及最重要的官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)的网站报道称，根据一名心理学家的诊断，穆尔西拒绝穿囚服表明“他试图否定现实”，而这说明“他无法承受失去和失败的痛苦”。
Another said that his smile “shows the weakness of his self-confidence,” according to the paper, while the applause of his supporters demonstrated “the rigidity of their thought, because they only do what they are told.”
该报纸报道，另外一名心理学家则说，从穆尔西的微笑可以看出“他的自信心很薄弱”，而他的支持者的欢呼正说明“他们思想僵化，因为别人告诉他们什么，他们就做什么”。