CAIRO — Egypt’s military-appointed government ordered former President Hosni Mubarak transferred from prison to house arrest late Wednesday after a court said he could no longer legally be held behind bars.
开罗——周三晚些时候，军方指定的埃及政府下令将前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)从监禁转为软禁，之前一家法院表示，穆巴拉克不能再被合法地关押在监狱中。
The order, announced by the cabinet, did not specify when the transfer would take place or where Mr. Mubarak would be moved, but said it could happen as early as Thursday. Mr. Mubarak, who led Egypt for 30 years, has spent the past 17 months in prison.
内阁下达的指令没有详细说明何时进行转移，或穆巴拉克会被转移到哪里，但表示可能最早在周四进行转移。穆巴拉克在埃及的执政时间长达30年，过去17个月一直被关押在监狱中。
Mr. Mubarak’s release from prison to a much milder form of incarceration injects a potentially volatile new element into the political crisis that has been convulsing the country in the six weeks since the military ousted the man who replaced Mr. Mubarak, the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Morsi, Egypt’s first freely elected president.
将穆巴拉克从监狱中释放，然后以非常温和的方式对其进行关押，这可能会为埃及的政治危机增添新的不稳定因素，在军方罢黜穆巴拉克的继任者——穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)以来的六周时间里，这场政治危机震动了埃及。来自穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的穆尔西是埃及首位由自由选举产生的总统。
Mr. Morsi remains under indefinite detention in an undisclosed location with no access to legal counsel.
穆尔西仍然处于无限期拘禁状态，拘禁地点不明，也不能接触律师。
The announcement regarding Mr. Mubarak came after an Egyptian court ruled that all appeals by prosecutors to keep him locked in prison had been exhausted.
在政府就穆巴拉克转监发表通告之前，埃及一家法院已经做出裁决，检方为继续关押穆巴拉克而发起的上诉程序已耗尽。
An official in the office of his lawyer, Farid el-Deeb, said the firm expected that Mr. Mubarak, 85, would be released within a matter of hours.
穆巴拉克律师办公室的管理人员法里德·迪卜(Farid el-Deeb)表示，事务所估计85岁的穆巴拉克有望在几个小时内获释。
It was unclear why the cabinet had decreed Mr. Mubarak must remain under house arrest.
目前尚不清楚，埃及内阁为什么决定穆巴拉克必须被软禁。
But under the state of emergency declared in Egypt after Mr. Morsi was deposed, the military-appointed government can exert unlimited powers in the country’s easily manipulated judicial system.
穆尔西被罢黜后，埃及宣布进入紧急状态，军方指定的政府因此能够行使无限权力，影响该国易被操纵的司法系统。
Even some of Mr. Mubarak’s opponents expected his release.
甚至连一些反对穆巴拉克的人都期待他能获释。
“We are now facing a sound release order, and the prosecution will appeal and the appeal will be denied and he will walk out, and he has a right to do so,” said Khaled Abu Bakr, a prominent lawyer involved in the cases of protesters killed during the demonstrations against Mr. Mubarak that preceded his downfall more than two years ago.
知名律师哈立德·阿布·巴克尔(Khaled Abu Bakr)说，“我们现在有一个合理的释放命令，检方将提起上诉，但上诉会被驳回，他将走出监狱，他有权这么做。”两年多前，一些抗议者在参与致使穆巴拉克下台的示威活动时被杀害，巴克尔参与了抗议者被杀一案的诉讼。
Wednesday’s court order applied to the last of at least three prosecutions that Mr. Mubarak still faced. He had already been ordered freed pending trial on two other cases, including a retrial on charges of complicity in the deaths of 800 protesters at the end of his regime in January 2011.
穆巴拉克仍然至少面临三项诉讼，法院周三下达的指令适用于最后一个诉讼案。另外两项诉讼已经被裁决为释放候审，包括对2011年1月穆巴拉克执政末期的800名抗议者死亡一案的共谋指控进行复审。
The juxtaposition of leniency for Mr. Mubarak while Mr. Morsi remains in custody could test the level of support for the military-led government among the many anti-Mubarak people who later sided with the decision to depose Mr. Morsi and crack down on the Muslim Brotherhood.
一边是穆巴拉克得到宽恕，另一边是穆尔西仍被关押，由此可以看出一些人对军方领导的政府的支持程度，这些人反对穆巴拉克，但后来又支持了罢黜穆尔西、打压穆兄会的决定。
Reached by telephone and told that Mr. Mubarak’s release from prison now looked imminent, Ahmed Maher, the founder of the 6th of April youth group that helped start the revolution, was initially silent for several moments.
记者通过电话与“4月6日青年组织”的创始人艾哈迈德·迈赫尔(Ahmed Maher)取得联系，并告诉他穆巴拉克可能即将被释放，曾帮助发动革命的迈赫尔最初沉默了一会儿。
“I’m shocked,” he said.
他说，“我很震惊。”
But he said he saw no likelihood of street protests because opponents of the government had been cowed into silence by widespread killings and arrests.
但他表示，他不认为有爆发街头抗议的可能，因为大规模的杀害及逮捕行动致使反对派感到害怕，他们因此保持沉默。
“If anybody even thinks of objecting, they will suffer,” he said.
他说，“如果有任何人有反对的念头，他们都会吃苦头。”
“If anybody dares express opposition against the government or the president or the military, they’ll be accused of treason and called a Muslim Brother in hiding,” Mr. Maher said.
迈赫尔说，“如果有任何人胆敢对政府、总统或军方表达反对，他就会被控叛国，被扣上穆斯林兄弟会卧底的帽子。”
In Tahrir Square in Cairo, where protesters once hung banners and nooses demanding Mr. Mubarak’s execution, public opinion appeared to have moved on. No one seemed to care much about Mr. Mubarak’s fate. The only ones who did seemed to be groups of Western journalists looking for reactions.
在开罗的解放广场(Tahrir Square)，抗议民众曾经悬挂起横幅和绞索，要求处决穆巴拉克。但现在，公众的意见看来已经翻过了那一页，大家似乎对穆巴拉克的命运不是很关心。仅有的一些，好像也是一群群关注民众反应的西方记者。
There was more concern from the Tamarod movement, the organization that ran a petition drive calling for Mr. Morsi’s ouster and for the June 30 demonstrations that led the military to depose him.
“反抗”(Tamarod)运动对此较为关注。这个组织发起了呼吁罢黜穆尔西的请愿，也发动了6月30日的抗议活动，那次抗议导致军方罢黜了穆尔西。
The group accused Mr. Morsi of not having prosecuted Mr. Mubarak and his subordinates aggressively enough for the deaths of protesters.
这个组织指责穆尔西起诉穆巴拉克及其部属的力度不足，未能为死难的抗议者讨回公道。
Ahmed al-Bahrawy, a prosecutor in charge of trying serious public corruption cases, said that his staff would not be able to appeal the release order in Mr. Mubarak’s case because it had been issued at the court’s appellate level already.
负责在公职人员严重腐败案中出庭的检察官艾哈迈德·巴拉维(Ahmed al-Bahrawy)表示，现在他的职员已经不能在穆巴拉克案中上诉反对释放令了，因为释放令已经是上诉庭级别的裁决。
According to Al Ahram, the state newspaper, citing security concerns, authorities moved the latest trial in Mr. Mubarak’s case to the prison where he has been held, rather than forcing him to endure the spectacle of a public court hearing, as he had done in the past.
埃及官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)报道，出于安全方面的考虑，当局已将穆巴拉克案最近一次审判的地点转移到了一直关押穆巴拉克的那所监狱，而不是像过去一样，让他在众目睽睽之下出庭受审。
The formal decision to release Mr. Mubarak was made by the Northern Court of Appeals in Cairo in the so-called Al Ahram gifts case.
释放穆巴拉克的正式决定是由开罗北区上诉法院(Northern Court of Appeals)在审理“《金字塔报》礼品案”时做出的。
Mr. Mubarak was charged with corruption for accepting a series of gifts valued at 18 million Egyptian pounds, about $2.6 million, from Al Ahram, the state-owned news organization.
穆巴拉克因为收取国有新闻机构《金字塔报》价值1800万埃及镑（约合1600万元人民币）的礼物而被控腐败。
Mr. Mubarak’s lawyer, Mr. Deeb, argued that he should be released pending trial because he had already made restitution for that amount to Al Ahram.
穆巴拉克的律师迪卜辩称，他应当在候审期间得到释放，因为他已经向《金字塔报》返还了相同金额的款项。
Mr. Deeb had argued that keeping Mr. Mubarak in prison, where he has languished since April 2011, was abusive and exceeded the legal limits for a prisoner awaiting trial.
迪卜称，一直将穆巴拉克关押在监狱中属于虐待，而且已经超出了羁押候审犯人的法定期限，穆巴拉克从2011年4月开始被关押至今。
Chronically ill, Mr. Mubarak has been held most recently in the Tora Prison’s hospital wing.
穆巴拉克患有慢性疾病，最近一直关押在托拉监狱(Tora Prison)内的医疗区里。
Mr. Mubarak’s two sons, Gamal and Alaa, remain incarcerated pending other corruption charges. Their cases have not been brought to trial.
穆巴拉克的两个儿子贾迈勒(Gamal)和阿拉(Alaa)仍在因其他腐败指控处于监禁中，他们的案件尚未开庭审理。
Mr. Abu Bakr said that it was routine in Egyptian legal proceedings for prosecutors to automatically appeal release orders and that normally, courts rejected those appeals.
阿布·巴克尔表示，按照埃及司法程序中的惯常做法，检方会自动就释放令提起上诉，但法庭通常会驳回这种上诉。
In past months, that procedural tradition was ignored because of political pressure to keep Mr. Mubarak behind bars, he said.
他说，过去几个月，由于存在把穆巴拉克继续关在监狱里的政治压力，所以司法程序的这种传统被忽略了。
“What happened before, when prosecutors pre-empted Mubarak’s release with new charges to keep him held under Morsi, is a mockery,” Mr. Abu Bakr said.
阿布·巴克尔说，“之前的做法是，检方在穆巴拉克该释放之前提起新的指控，从而继续把他关押在穆尔西手下。这是很可笑的。”