CAIRO — A year after the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak, the man responsible for rooting out government corruption, Gen. Mohamed Farid el-Tohamy, faced a very public barrage of allegations that he had deliberately covered up years of cronyism and self-dealing.
开罗——埃及总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)下台一年后，作为负责铲除政府内部腐败行为的人，穆罕默德·法里德·托哈米(Mohamed Farid el-Tohamy)将军面对公开指责，指责内容是他蓄意掩盖多年的任人唯亲和假公济私。
President Mohamed Morsi promptly fired the general, prosecutors opened an investigation, the news filled the papers and his career appeared to end in disgrace.
时任总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)立刻将其撤职，检方启动了调查，报纸上相关报道铺天盖地，他的仕途似乎以名誉扫地告终。
But now the general is back, and more powerful than ever. His protégé and friend, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, ousted Mr. Morsi about four months ago, and virtually the first move by the new government was to rehabilitate General Tohamy and place him in charge of the general intelligence service, one of the most powerful positions in Egypt.
但如今，托哈米将军又回来了，而且拥有了更大的权力。他的门生和好友阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西将军(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)大约四个月前罢黜了穆尔西，新政府上台后的几乎第一件事就是请托哈米再度出山，由他执掌情报总局，这是埃及最有权势的职位之一。
Western diplomats and Egyptians close to the government say General Tohamy has emerged as the leading advocate of the lethal crackdown on Mr. Morsi’s Islamist supporters in the Muslim Brotherhood, in a drive to eviscerate the movement.
西方外交人士以及与政府关系密切的埃及人说，托哈米将军已经成为对穆尔西的穆兄会(Muslim Brotherhood)伊斯兰主义支持者实施武力镇压的主要倡导者，目的是捣毁穆兄会运动。
Any public trace of the corruption charges — leveled by one of the general’s own investigators — has disappeared.
有关其腐败指控——由托哈米手下的一名调查员提出——的所有公开痕迹已经全部消失。
“What happened to the prosecutors’ claim of evidence of his corruption and obstruction of justice?” asked Hossam Bahgat, one of the few Egyptian human rights advocates willing to publicly criticize General Tohamy. “Why was he ousted in that humiliating fashion? Why was he brought back from retirement the morning after the military takeover?” he continued. “There is zero public discussion of these very serious questions.”
胡萨姆·巴赫贾特(Hossam Bahgat)是埃及少数愿意公开批评托哈米将军的人权倡导者之一。他问道，“检方所说的托哈米腐败和妨碍司法的证据怎么没有下文了？为什么当初他会以那种丢脸的方式被罢免？为什么在军事接管之后的第二天早上他就被请回来了？这些非常重大的问题从来没有被公开讨论过。”
General Tohamy declined to be interviewed for this article and did not answer written questions. No court has evaluated the allegations against him. His accuser, Lt. Col. Moatassem Fathi, a police officer, has also declined to be interviewed. In a television appearance last fall, he acknowledged that at one point he temporarily quit working for General Tohamy at the Administrative Oversight Authority, the main anticorruption watchdog. He was upset over a job transfer that he deemed punitive, and it could have given him a grudge.
托哈米将军拒绝为本文接受采访，也没有回答书面提问。没有任何一家法院评估了针对托哈米的指控。他的指控者、陆军中校穆瓦塔塞姆·法特希(Moatassem Fathi)是一名警官。他也拒绝接受采访。去年秋天在电视上露面时，他承认，他暂时辞去了在行政监督局(Administrative Oversight Authority)的职务。在这个主要的反腐监察机构，法特希在托哈米的手下工作。他对一次在他看来是故意整他的职位调动耿耿于怀，这可能让他心怀不满。
But critics of General Tohamy say he was the quintessential Mubarak man, the handpicked guardian of the system of corruption and impunity that was a central grievance of the revolution of January 2011. And his swift and silent return, the critics say, signals a restoration of the old order after the military takeover.
但是，托哈米将军的批评者们说，他是典型的穆巴拉克的亲信，是穆巴拉克亲手挑选的凌驾于法律之上的腐败体制的捍卫者，这种体制正是引燃2011年1月的革命的主要导火索。然而批评人士说，他迅速而且悄无声息地回归，突显在军方接管政权后，埃及又回到了旧的秩序。
Yezid Sayigh, a researcher at the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, Lebanon, who has written about the Administrative Oversight Authority, asked: “Of all the qualified people in Egypt, why bring in Tohamy, who is way past his retirement age and under a cloud already? Why is this so urgent?”
位于贝鲁特的卡内基中东中心(Carnegie Middle East Center)的研究员耶齐德·萨伊赫(Yezid Sayigh)曾经写过关于埃及行政监督局的文章。他问道：“埃及有那么多合格的人，为什么偏要把早已过了退休年龄、而且头上笼罩着阴影的托哈米请出来。而且为什么这么急？”
General Sisi and the civilian ministers around him initially pledged to try to include Mr. Morsi’s Islamist supporters in a new democratic process. For more than a month, General Sisi appeared to consider the arguments of former Vice President Mohamed ElBaradei and a few others urging restraint in the interest of reconciliation with the Islamists, who had camped out by the tens of thousands at sit-ins protesting the takeover.
赛西将军和他周围的文职部长们最初承诺让穆尔西的伊斯兰主义支持者参与新的民主进程。在一个多月的时间里，赛西似乎考虑了前副总统穆罕默德·巴拉迪(Mohamed ElBaradei)以及少数其他人的主张，他们敦促克制，以便与伊斯兰主义者达成和解。那时有数万名伊斯兰主义者在静坐示威，他们建立了抗议营地，抗议军方夺权。
But within days of the takeover, General Tohamy was already arguing against any inclusion of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group that led the voting in elections for Parliament and the presidency. Its members were “terrorists” whose movement must be excluded and crushed, General Tohamy argued, according to the Western officials who met with him and with Egyptians in the new government.
但是在军方接管政权仅几天后，托哈米将军已经开始活动，反对任何让穆兄会参与民主进程的提议。这个伊斯兰组织曾在议会和总统选举中胜出。曾经会晤托哈米和新政府其他成员的西方官员们说，托哈米主张，穆兄会成员是恐怖分子，他们这个运动必须被排除在外，并受到镇压。
A Mentor
导师
By mid-August, General Tohamy had prevailed: security forces stormed the Islamist sit-ins, killing nearly a thousand demonstrators in the largest mass killings in modern Egyptian history. (More than 40 security officers were killed that day in a backlash from the Islamists, some armed.)
到了8月中旬，托哈米将军占了上风：军警对伊斯兰主义者的抗议营地进行清场，打死近1000名示威者，这是埃及现代史上最大规模的杀戮。伊斯兰主义者（其中一些人持有武器）的反扑当天造成40余名军警被杀。
All the state and private television networks adopted the same vocabulary as General Tohamy. “Egypt fighting terrorism,” ran a banner the networks affixed to their screens, in Arabic and in English.
官方和私人电视台都采用了和托哈米将军同样的措辞。这些电视台在屏幕上用阿拉伯文和英文打出一个标题：“埃及打击恐怖主义”。
Islamists accused General Tohamy of a vendetta against Mr. Morsi. “Revenge is a powerful motivator,” said Wael Haddara, a former Morsi adviser now living in Canada.
伊斯兰主义者指责托哈米对穆尔西怀恨在心。目前居住在加拿大的穆尔西前顾问瓦埃勒·哈达拉(Wael Haddara)说，“报复是一个强大的动机。”
General Sisi and General Tohamy climbed together through the ranks of the Egyptian infantry, where General Tohamy, 66, had become a mentor to General Sisi, 58, according to Egyptians and Western officials who know both officers. General Tohamy had served as head of military intelligence, and he helped pick General Sisi as his successor.
认识二人的埃及人和西方官员们说，赛西将军和托哈米将军在埃及步兵部队中一起逐级晋升，在部队里，现年66岁的托哈米成了现年58岁的赛西的导师。托哈米将军曾执掌军事情报部门，他参与挑选了赛西将军作为其继任者。
That was when General Tohamy took over the Administrative Oversight Authority, a secretive agency run by the Egyptian military. It is a singular combination of a domestic spy service and an auditing bureau. Historians say President Gamal Abdel Nasser created it in the years after he led the 1952 military coup, to keep the army on top of his ever-expanding civilian bureaucracy.
正是在那时，托哈米将军接掌了行政监督局。这是埃及军方运营的一个秘密机构。它将国内间谍机构和审计机构合二为一。历史学家们说，贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)在1952年领导军事政变后的几年里建立了这个机构，以便让军队管控在他手下不断扩张的文职官僚机构。
The authority conducts its own electronic surveillance and operates its own jails. Former detainees, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals, say both suspects and witnesses under interrogation were sometimes confined there for months without any judicial process, or any assurance of release, and its extrajudicial detentions appear to have continued under Mr. Morsi.
该机构自行实施电子监视，有自己的看守所。曾被该机构关押的人士在匿名情况下透露，受到审问的嫌疑人和目击证人有时被关押好几个月，其间没有任何司法程序或释放保证，而非法关押的情况在穆尔西上台后似乎仍然存在。
As soon as Mr. Mubarak handed power to the generals in 2011, Colonel Fathi, the investigator, filed detailed charges with prosecutors accusing General Tohamy of colluding in the corruption he was supposed to root out, the colonel later said. But the case was quickly transferred to a military court and disappeared, he added.
法特希中校后来说，2011年，当穆巴拉克把权力移交给军方将领之后，作为调查者的他就向检察官提交详尽指控，称托哈米将军非但不惩治腐败，反而与腐败者串通。他补充说，此案很快被移交军事法庭，然后便消失无踪。
When Mr. Morsi was sworn in as president in June 2012, his power was initially circumscribed by a simultaneous military takeover of all legislative authority.
2012年6月当穆尔西宣誓就任总统时，由于军方接管了所有的立法职权，他的权力最初受到制约。
When the generals finally yielded power in August, Colonel Fathi proclaimed in a television interview that the handover had “dismantled the last shackle on freedom” as the revolution had promised. He refiled his charges and this time went public, declaring in the interview that General Tohamy “is one of the reasons for the corruption Egypt has suffered for the last 30 years.”
当军方将领终于在8月交出权力时，法特希中校在电视采访中宣称，权力移交兑现了革命承诺，“拆除了限制自由的最后枷锁”。法特希中校再次提交指控，并将其公诸于众。他在采访中宣称，托哈米将军是“导致埃及在过去30年出现腐败的原因之一”。
“He is protecting the former regime,” Colonel Fathi said.
法特希中校说，“他在保护前政权。”
In the television interview, Colonel Fathi said he had earned a master’s degree in forensic accounting and worked for 10 years in a secret unit handling sensitive cases. He accused General Tohamy of consistently thwarting the agency’s investigators by locking away evidence in a “secret safe.”
法特希中校在电视采访中表示，他有法务会计硕士学位，在一个处理敏感案件的秘密部门工作了10年。他指责托哈米将军将证据锁在一个“秘密保险柜”中，不断阻挠该机构调查人员的工作。
General Tohamy had covered up reports that Mr. Mubarak’s sons, Gamal and Alla, were given use of a government-bought private plane, called Eagle 2, and a yacht, Colonel Fathi said. He also said that he had personally written reports on allegations against both Mr. Mubarak and Ahmed Shafik, the former president’s last prime minister and then a presidential candidate, but that General Tohamy squashed them.
法特希中校表示，托哈米将军曾掩盖有关穆巴拉克儿子贾迈勒(Gamal)和阿拉(Alla)的报告，报告称他们获准使用政府购买的名为Eagle 2的私人飞机，以及一艘游艇。他还声称，自己曾写过有关针对穆巴拉克及艾哈迈德·沙菲克(Ahmed Shafik)的指控的报告，但托哈米将军压下了这些报告；沙菲克是前总统的最后一任总理，后来是总统候选人。
“You write all the information and you submit them as cases, but they don’t come out,” Colonel Fathi said in the interview. He said that he had firsthand knowledge of 14 cases General. Tohamy blocked to protect senior officials, including a general who was governor of North Sinai and another general who was minister of military production.
法特希中校在接受采访时表示，“你写下所有的信息，并当作案卷提交，但它们就此没有了下文。”他表示，他掌握14宗案卷的第一手资料，托哈米将军为了保护相关高官而封杀了这些案卷。这些高官包括时任北西奈省省长的一名将军和时任军火生产部部长的另一名将军。
In two cases, Colonel Fathi described charges that prosecutors or judges later rejected, citing a lack of evidence.
其中有两个案件，检察官或法官后来以证据不足为由拒绝接受法特希中校提出的指控。
Colonel Fathi said that he and his colleagues had filed a 40-page report detailing charges of bribes and payoffs involving the sale of vast acreage of public land outside Cairo under the minister of housing, Mohamed Ibrahim Soliman.
法特希中校称，他和同事们提交了一份40页的报告，详细描述了住房部长穆罕默德·易卜拉欣·苏莱曼(Mohamed Ibrahim Soliman)在出售开罗郊外大片公共用地时涉及的贿赂行为。
In one example, he said, the owners of the Maxime development company sold Mr. Soliman two luxurious apartments on Omar Ibn al-Khattab Street for about $100,000. But a sale to a publicly owned bank around the same time put the value of the two units at more than $1.5 million, Mr. Fathi said.
他说，有一次，马克西姆(Maxime)开发公司的老板以大约10万美元（约合61万元人民币）的价格把位于奥马尔·本·哈塔卜大街(Omar Ibn al-Khattab Street)的两套豪华公寓卖给苏莱曼。法特希说，差不多同时向一家公有银行出售时，这两套房子的估价超过了150万美元。
And around the same time as the apartments’ sale, Mr. Soliman arranged a deal involving 90 acres of public land for the same company, Maxime, Colonel Fathi said in the interview. General Tohamy censored the report to just a few pages and left out all the evidence.
法特希中校在接受采访时说，大约就在出售这两套公寓的同时，索利曼为马克西姆公司安排了一桩涉及90英亩（约36.4万平方米）公共土地的交易。这份报告经托哈米将军删节后，只剩下几页，所有证据都被删除了。
Mr. Soliman, who left office in 2005, said in an interview this week that he was innocent of any crime. He said that while Mr. Mubarak was still in power, prosecutors had dropped the charges Colonel Fathi mentioned after concluding there was insufficient evidence.
索利曼于2005年卸任，本周他在接受采访时表示，自己没有犯任何罪。他表示，在穆巴拉克掌权时期，检察官在发现没有足够的证据之后，已撤销了法特希提到的指控。
Under military rule after Mr. Mubarak’s ouster and then under Mr. Morsi, however, Mr. Soliman was arrested on other corruption charges, jailed for two and a half years, and forced to surrender millions of dollars. He was released last week, under the new government, and he is awaiting a retrial for one of the charges. He said the charges against him were politically motivated.
然而，穆巴拉克下台后，在军政府以及随后穆尔西主政期间，索利曼因为其他腐败指控而被捕，被判入狱两年半，并且被迫交出数百万美元。上周他被新政府释放，正在等待一项指控的重审。他说自己遭受的指控存在政治动机。
Colonel Fathi also said that General Tohamy had covered up documents, wiretaps, surveillance and testimony that showed Farid Khamees, chairman of the Industrial Affairs Committee in the upper house of Parliament, had paid more than $300,000 to bribe two senior judges.
法特希上校还说，托哈米将军还隐藏了一些文件、窃听监视资料和证词，这些材料显示，埃及议会上院工业事务委员会的主席法里德·卡米斯(Farid Khamees)向两名高级法官行贿30万美元。
Claims of Protection
保护要求
Mr. Khamees’s lawyers later confessed to delivering the bribes on his behalf and the judges who received them quit or were fired, but Mr. Khamees, who also owns the rug giant Oriental Weavers, was acquitted for lack of evidence of criminal intent, according to news reports. Farid el-Deeb, lawyer for Mr. Khamees and for the Mubaraks, declined to comment.
卡米斯的一些律师后来承认，曾代表卡米斯把贿赂递交给法官，这些法官已经辞职或遭到解职，但拥有地毯巨头东方编织集团(Oriental Weavers)的卡米斯，却因犯罪意图证据不足被宣告无罪，新闻报道说。卡米斯和穆巴拉克的律师法里德·迪布(Farid el-Deeb)拒绝予以置评。
Colonel Fathi said General Tohamy had protected others in the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces who had profited from the smuggling of subsidized fuel, some accumulating fortunes of as much as $7 million. “There are complete cases of corruption involving officials at the military council known to everybody, including the council members,” Colonel Fathi said in the interview. (He volunteered that General Sisi, the defense minister, was not involved.)
法特希上校说，托哈米将军还掩护了武装部队最高委员会里的一些人，这些人从补贴燃料走私活动中牟取利益，有人积累了多达700万美元的财富。法特希上校在接受采访时说：“有些十足的腐败案件涉及无人不知的军事委员会官员，其中包括委员会成员。”（他主动说，国防部长塞西将军没有牵涉在内。）
General Tohamy himself had received “millions of pounds” in gifts from state companies, Colonel Fathi said, and in turn used his agency’s budget to buy birthday gifts worth as much as $16,000 a year for the former defense minister, Field Marshall Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, and other presents for Mr. Mubarak’s sons.
法特希上校说，托哈米将军自己曾从国有企业收到“数百万埃及镑”的礼物，然后他再利用自己掌管的机构的预算，每年购买价值高达1.6万美元的生日礼物，送给前国防大臣、陆军元帅穆罕默德·侯赛因·坦塔维(Field Marshall Mohamed Hussein Tantawi)，而且也买了其他礼物，送给穆巴拉克的儿子们。
Learning of Colonel Fathi’s allegations, two senior Morsi advisers, Rifaa Tahtawy and Assad el-Sheika, called the colonel to the presidential palace, according to other former officials and news reports, and Mr. Morsi soon fired him. (Mr. Morsi, Mr. Tahtawy and Mr. Sheika are now in detention.)
其他前官员和新闻报道说，穆尔西的两名高级顾问，里法·塔萨维(Rifaa Tahtawy)和阿萨德·希卡(Assad el-Sheika)，在获知法特希上校的指控后，把他叫到总统府，不久穆尔西就解雇了他。（穆尔西、塔萨维和希卡现在已被拘留。）
Colonel Fathi had quit around the start of 2011 after the job transfer, convinced he had been punished for his reports. But he later won his old job back. Now, surprisingly, he is still there at work, although he has been transferred again to a more limited job outside Cairo.
法特希上校在被调职后于2011年左右辞职，他认为调职是举报此事遭到的报复。但后来他被恢复了原职。令人惊讶的是，现在，他仍然在那里工作，虽然他已经再次被调职到了开罗郊外一个权限更小的工作岗位上。
“They have got him locked in the basement,” Mr. Soliman, the former housing minister accused in Colonel Fathi’s reports, said with satisfaction.
“他们把他锁在了地下室里，”法特希上校举报过的前住房部长索利曼满意地说。