CAIRO — Egypt’s new rulers on Thursday moved former President Hosni Mubarak from a prison cell to house arrest at a military hospital, ending more than two years of incarceration but stopping short of granting him full freedom.
埃及——周四，埃及的新统治者将前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)从牢房转移到一座军事医院，对其进行软禁，此举结束了穆巴拉克两年多以来的监禁生活，但并未让他彻底获得自由。
His release stoked the anger of the thousands of Islamists and others still protesting in the streets around the country nightly to denounce the military’s ouster last month of Mr. Mubarak’s successor, Mohamed Morsi, who remains in detention at an undisclosed location. But among other groups, reaction was muted.
他的获释激起了数千名伊斯兰主义者，以及其他每晚仍在全国各地街头抗议的人的愤怒。这些抗议者谴责军方上月罢黜了穆巴拉克的继任者穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)。穆尔西仍被关押在一个位置不明的地方。但其他组织对穆巴拉克获释的反应很平淡。
The left-leaning April 6 Group, which spearheaded the 2011 uprising against Mr. Mubarak, 85, called off a planned protest against Mr. Mubarak’s release for fear that Mr. Morsi’s Islamist supporters might exploit it for their own cause, or that security forces might crush it in their drive to suppress the Islamists. It was canceled “to avoid the shedding of more Egyptian blood,” the group said in a statement.
左倾的“4月6日组织”(April 6 Group)取消了原定的反对释放穆巴拉克的抗议活动，因为担心穆尔西的伊斯兰派支持者可能会为了自己的目的而利用抗议活动，以及安全部队可能为了镇压伊斯兰主义者而破坏抗议活动。2011年，在反抗穆巴拉克的起义中，该组织曾是排头兵。它在一份声明中说，取消抗议活动“是为了避免埃及发生更多流血事件”。
An Egyptian court granted a lawyer’s petition for Mr. Mubarak’s release on Wednesday, but the decision to let him go was essentially political. The new authorities appointed by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi declined to follow the Morsi government’s practice of raising new charges to keep Mr. Mubarak behind bars. Instead, the new officials used the expanded police powers that they have granted themselves to keep Mr. Mubarak under house arrest without charges, ensuring that he does not begin speaking out publicly or stirring up trouble.
埃及一家法院于周三批准了律师释放穆巴拉克的请求，但从本质上来说，让他出狱的决定充满了政治色彩。阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)任命的新当局拒绝遵循穆尔西政府为继续把穆巴拉克关在监狱里而提出新指控的做法。相反，新任官员用他们赋予自己的更大的警察权力软禁了穆巴拉克，却不指控他，以确保他不会公开发表意见或制造麻烦。
Arriving from prison in a medical helicopter around 4 p.m., Mr. Mubarak reclined on a gurney as a crew of soldiers and medics pushed him to the hospital. His lips turned up in a slight smile. He cradled his head in his hands, and dark sunglasses covered his eyes. Instead of the running suits he appeared in as an inmate, he wore khaki pants, a white shirt and soft, pale loafers.
下午4点左右，穆巴拉克从监狱乘坐医用直升机抵达医院。斜靠在轮床上的他被一队士兵和医生推进了医院。戴着黑色太阳镜的他双手抱头，嘴唇上杨，面露微笑。不同于在狱中现身时所穿的成套运动服，穆巴拉克当天穿着卡其布料裤子、白色T恤和浅色柔软便鞋。
Mr. Mubarak had spent part of his incarceration at the same military hospital. His lawyers have often argued that Mr. Mubarak, 85, is in ill health, but a long series of contradictory reports — including a false bulletin from the state news agency that a stroke had left him clinically dead — have raised the possibility that his defense team and their allies were exaggerating to win him sympathy and better conditions.
在被监禁期间，穆巴拉克在这家军事医院待过一段时间。他的律师经常表示85岁的穆巴拉克身体不好，但一系列矛盾的报道——例如，官方通讯社发布的一条假新闻称，一次中风差点让他被医院宣布死亡——提出了一种可能，即他的辩护团队以及他们的盟友是在夸大事实，为的是替他赢得同情和更好的待遇。
Interior Ministry officials said the hospital was his choice of residence after leaving the prison. His other previous homes had been presidential palaces, which are no longer available to him, or a mansion in the Red Sea Resort of Sharm el Sheik, which is entangled in some of the corruption charges against him.
内政部官员称，是穆巴拉克自己选择出狱后居住在这家医院的。穆巴拉克之前住过的地方包括总统府和沙姆沙伊赫红海度假胜地的一处宅邸，但他现在不能住总统府，而沙姆沙伊赫的那处房屋则被卷进了他面临的部分腐败指控。
His wife, Suzanne, is reportedly living in Cairo and has visited him in prison. Their sons, Gamal and Alaa, both remain in a Cairo prison, held under multiple corruption charges, and their mother visits them, too.
他的妻子苏珊(Suzanne)据称住在开罗，曾到监狱看他。他们的儿子贾迈勒(Gamal)和阿拉(Alaa)都还在开罗的一座监狱里，因多项腐败指控被关押，他们的母亲也曾前往探视。
Mr. Mubarak was released from prison the same day that a committee of jurists released a proposed constitutional overhaul that would in many ways bring back the Mubarak-era charter.
穆巴拉克被释放当天，一个法学家委员会公布了一份宪法修订提案，从很多方面看，这份提案会恢复穆巴拉克时代的章程。
The package would remove some provisions about the role of religion approved by last year’s Islamist-led constitutional assembly. The main addition in that charter set a framework for applying the principles of Shariah law, in accordance with established Sunni Muslim thought. But the overhaul preserves a longstanding clause grounding Egyptian law in the principles of Shariah. It brings back another clause left out last year that would limit women’s equality where it contradicts Shariah.
该提案会删去一些有关宗教职能的条款，而这些条款都是去年伊斯兰派领导的制宪会议所认可的。这部分章程的新增部分主要是建立一个应用伊斯兰教法(Shariah law)的原则框架，和作为国教的逊尼派穆斯林思想是保持一致的。但是此次修订保留了一个存在已久的条款，即将伊斯兰教法原则作为埃及法律的基础。此外它恢复了一个去年被删去的条款，妇女平等在和教法发生抵触时将遭到限制。
On the question of rights, freedoms, women’s equality, or decentralization, the proposed overhaul provides little or no improvement, legal analysts said. It still leaves broad and ill-defined loopholes for limiting freedoms of speech and assembly. On all those questions, “it is essentially the same,” said Zaid al-Ali, a researcher at the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance. “No one’s life in Egypt is going to improve because of these proposed changes.”
法律分析人士说，在权利、自由、妇女平等或分权等问题上，这份提案做出的改进不多，甚至可以说完全没有。它依然留有泛泛而含混的漏洞，对言论和集会自由构成限制。国际民主和选举援助研究所(International Institute for Democratic and Electoral Assistance)研究员扎伊德·阿里(Zaid al-Ali)说，所有这些问题，“本质上都是一样的，这次提出的改变对埃及人的生活不会带来任何改善。”
The overhaul is expected to be rushed through a government-dominated committee of 50, and then face a national referendum — at a blistering pace compared with international norms for such debates.
修订提案预计会在一个由政府主导的50人委员会里迅速得到通过，然后交由全民公决——和此类辩论的国际惯例相比，这样的速度是很惊人的。
Until then, the government’s flagship state newspaper, Al Ahram, said Thursday, that the limits and duration of Mr. Mubarak’s house arrest would be set entirely by the military-appointed government, under its state of emergency and suspension of due process. Al Ahram said his house arrest was “for his own safety and the safety of society.”
埃及最重要的官方报纸《金字塔报》(Al Ahram)在周四称，鉴于国家的紧急状态以及合法诉讼程序的中断，在公决前，穆巴拉克的软禁的限制程度和期限将由军方委派的政府全权决定。《金字塔报》说，软禁他是“出于对他本人和社会的安全考虑。”
Mr. Mubarak is still awaiting a retrial on the most serious charge against him: that he directed the killing of hundreds of unarmed demonstrators during the protests that ended his rule in February 2011. A judge initially convicted him of those charges last year. But the judges issued an obviously self-contradictory ruling that all but begged to be appealed.
穆巴拉克还在等待一次复审，事关他所面临的最严重指控：在2011年2月的那次导致他下台的抗议活动中，下令杀害数百名手无寸铁的示威者。去年一名法官一开始判定该罪名成立。但法官给出了一份明显自相矛盾的裁决，几乎是在主动要求被上诉。
The judge dismissed all charges against Mr. Mubarak’s subordinates in the police chain of command and said at the time that there was no evidence linking Mr. Mubarak to the police shooting of protesters.
穆巴拉克在警察系统的下属所遭到的指控全部被法官否决，理由是在当时没有证据可以证明穆巴拉克和警察枪击抗议者有关联。