ISLAMABAD — In a sudden erosion of military privilege and impunity, a Pakistani court indicted the former ruler Pervez Musharraf on Tuesday in connection with the 2007 assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto — the first time that such a senior general has faced criminal charges.
伊斯兰堡——巴基斯坦一家法院在周二对涉嫌前总理贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)遇刺案的前领导人佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫(Pervez Musharraf)发起诉讼，这是首次有高级将领遭到刑事指控，显示军方的特权与豁免权已遭到侵蚀。
The court filed three charges against Mr. Musharraf, 70, including murder and conspiracy to murder, said a prosecutor, Chaudhry Muhammed Azhar. He spoke after the court’s brief hearing in the garrison city of Rawalpindi. Reporters were excluded from the hearing.
检察官肖德里·默罕默德·阿扎尔(Chaudhry Muhammed Azhar)说，法庭对现年70岁的穆沙拉夫发起了三项指控，包括谋杀和参与谋杀。在重兵驻守的城市拉瓦尔品第，穆沙拉夫在法庭听取了案情陈述后讲了话。记者未被允许入内旁听。
Mr. Musharraf, who had previously asserted that the case against him was politically motivated, pleaded not guilty, his lawyers said. Afterward, police commandos and paramilitary rangers escorted him back to his villa on the edge of the capital, Islamabad, where he has been under house arrest since April in connection with other cases stemming from his nine-year rule, from 1999 to 2008.
穆沙拉夫此前曾声称，用此案起诉他是存在政治动机的，他的律师称他将作无罪抗辩。特警和准军事人员押送他回到他在首都伊斯兰堡郊区的一处庄园，由于和1999年到2008年的九年执政期间发生的一些案件有牵连，他自4月以来一直被软禁在那里。
The symbolism of a once untouchable general’s being called to account was potent in a country that has been led by the military for about half of its 66-year history. While the military remains deeply powerful, the prosecution of Mr. Musharraf signaled that even Pakistan’s top generals are sometimes subject to the rule of law — at least after they have retired.
在这样一个66年历史中有超过一半时间受军人统治的国家里，曾经一手遮天的将军遭到法律问责会是一个强有力的象征。军方依然手握重权，然而穆沙拉夫受到起诉一事表明，就算巴基斯坦的最高将领有时也会受到法律的管束——至少在他们退役以后是这样。
Mr. Musharraf did not speak to reporters as he left the hearing, surrounded by security guards. His spokesman, Reza Bokhari, later called the charges “false, fabricated and fictitious.”
穆沙拉夫在安保人员的簇拥下离开法院，没有和记者讲话。他的发言人雷扎·博卡里(Reza Bokhari)后来称指控是“不实的、编造的和无中生有的”。
Mr. Musharraf’s indictment spurred skepticism among some Pakistanis, who saw it as a moment of political revenge and misleading clarity in a case still clouded by confusion, obfuscation and the mysterious deaths of potential witnesses and prosecutors over the years.
一些巴基斯坦人对穆沙拉夫遭起诉一事心存怀疑，他们认为这是政治报复、混淆视听，多年来此案依然充斥着困惑、混乱，以及潜在证人和检察官的神秘死亡。
Indeed, prosecutors have publicly disclosed little detail about how Mr. Musharraf might be linked to Ms. Bhutto’s death. The new charges are believed to rely heavily on a statement by Mark Siegel, a Washington lobbyist and friend of Ms. Bhutto, who said that Mr. Musharraf made a threatening phone call to her before she returned to Pakistan in October 2007.
事实上对于穆沙拉夫和布托遇害案的关联，检方几乎没有公布什么细节。此次的新指控应该在相当程度上是依据马克·西格尔(Mark Siegel)的一份证词做出的，这位华盛顿游说人士是布托的朋友，他说穆沙拉夫在2007年10月布托返回巴基斯坦前曾打电话威胁她。
Mr. Siegel said Ms. Bhutto had warned him in an e-mail that if she were killed, the blame should fall on four named people: a former director of the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, Pakistan’s main spy agency; a military intelligence chief; a rival politician; and Mr. Musharraf, who was then president and army chief.
西格尔说布托通过一封电子邮件提醒他，如果她被杀，应该归咎于四个人，并列出了他们的姓名：其中一个是巴基斯坦的主要谍报机构三军情报局(Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate)前局长；一个是军方情报主管；一个是敌对的政治人士；还有就是当时任总统和军队领导人的穆沙拉夫。
Two months later, Ms. Bhutto was killed during a gun and bomb attack as she left a rally in Rawalpindi. Mr. Musharraf’s government quickly blamed Baitullah Mehsud, the leader of the Pakistani Taliban. The head of the Central Intelligence Agency at the time, Michael V. Hayden, agreed with that assessment — and 18 months later, the C.I.A. killed Mr. Mehsud in a drone strike.
两个月后，布托在拉瓦尔品第参加完一次集会离开时，遭枪击和炸弹袭击身亡。穆沙拉夫的政府迅速指称，主使者是巴基斯坦塔利班头目贝图拉·马哈苏德(Baitullah Mehsud)。当时的美国中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)局长麦克尔·V·海登 (Michael V. Hayden)认同这一看法——18个月后中情局用无人机空袭杀死了马哈苏德。
The courts have revived charges against Mr. Musharraf in four cases. But the Bhutto prosecution and a potential treason prosecution are mostly like to strain relations among the country’s judicial, political and military leaders.
法院在四桩案件中重新提出了对穆沙拉夫的指控。但最有可能令这个国家的司法、政界和军方领导人之间的关系陷入紧张的，是布托案以及一项可能的叛国罪诉讼。
The treason prosecution is supported by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, whose last stint in power ended in 1999 after he was ousted by Mr. Musharraf in a coup. But inside the military, the prospect of a former military chief’s facing a potential death penalty has caused simmering anger.
叛国罪指控得到了总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)的支持，他的最后一次掌权是在1999年结束的，当时他在政变中被穆沙拉夫推翻。然而在军队内部，堂堂前军方领导人可能被判死刑的情形，已经令怒火一触即发。
The Bhutto case, meanwhile, has become embroiled in bitter contention and violent intrigue. Apart from Mr. Musharraf, six other people were also indicted at Tuesday’s court hearing, including two senior police officers who face accusations that they sanitized the Bhutto crime scene.
与此同时，布托案已经被卷入激烈争论和暴力阴谋中。除了穆沙拉夫以外，还有六人在周二的聆讯中被起诉，包括两名高级警官，他们被控在布托案犯罪现场毁灭证据。
A United Nations investigation, which published its findings in 2010, said that a senior unnamed army officer had ordered one of those police officers, a former Rawalpindi police chief, Saud Aziz, to hose down the scene in the hours after Ms. Bhutto’s assassination. The car in which Ms. Bhutto died was also cleaned out, destroying its evidential value.
联合国开展的一项调查于2010年公布了结果，报告称在布托遇刺几个小时后，一名未具名的军方高官命令其中一名警官、前拉瓦尔品第警察局长萨乌德·阿齐兹(Saud Aziz)对现场进行冲洗。布托遇害时乘坐的汽车也被清洗，破坏了它的证据价值。
“The police deliberately botched the investigation into Bhutto’s assassination,” wrote Heraldo Muñoz, a Chilean diplomat who led the United Nations investigation, in an article published this week.
“警方在布托遇刺案的调查中有意笨手笨脚，”联合国调查行动的负责人、智利外交官埃拉尔多·穆尼奥兹(Heraldo Muñoz)在本周发表的一篇文章中写到。
As he awaits the next court hearing in the case, scheduled for Aug. 27, Mr. Musharraf may draw some cold comfort from Mr. Muñoz’s writing. The diplomat’s forthcoming book, “Getting Away with Murder,” concludes that, despite her e-mail to the contrary, Ms. Bhutto probably did not believe that Mr. Musharraf wanted to kill her — “only that some people around him did.”
下一次聆讯定于8月27日举行，在那之前，穆沙拉夫也许可以看看穆尼奥兹的文章聊以自慰。这位外交官在即将出版的书《杀人脱罪》(Getting Away with Murder)中得出结论，虽然在邮件中那么说，但布托其实并不相信穆沙拉夫会想杀死她——“顶多是他身边的人。”