TOKYO — Moody’s said Monday that it had downgraded its credit rating on Sony to junk status, citing the deepening woes of the company’s consumer electronics business.
东京——穆迪(Moody)周一称其已将索尼公司(Sony)的信用评级下调至垃圾级别，原因是该公司消费者电子产品业务深陷困境。
“Of primary concern are the challenges facing the company’s TV and PC businesses, both of which face intense global competition, rapid changes in technology, and product obsolescence,” the ratings agency said in a statement.
该评级机构在一份声明中表示，“我们最主要的担心是索尼电视机业务和个人电脑业务所面临的挑战，这两个业务都面临着激烈的全球竞争、技术的快速变化，以及产品的更新换代问题。”
Another ratings agency, Fitch, lowered its rating for Sony to junk, or below investment grade, in 2012.
另一家评级机构惠誉国际(Fitch)在2012年就已将索尼公司的信用下调为垃圾级别，也就是低于投资级别。
Sony’s consumer electronics business was once a shining example of Japanese technological innovation, but over the last decade it has been eclipsed by rivals in the United States, South Korea, China and elsewhere. While Sony’s video game consoles remain popular, the company has trailed far behind companies like Apple and Samsung Electronics in fast-growing new businesses like smartphones.
索尼的消费者电子产品业务曾是日本技术创新的一个光辉典范，但是在过去十年中，索尼却被来自美国、韩国、中国和其他地方的竞争对手所取代。虽然索尼的游戏机仍很受欢迎，但该公司在诸如智能手机等快速增长的新业务方面已经远远落后于苹果(Apple)和三星电子(Samsung Electronics)等公司。
While some other Japanese electronics giants have been shifting their attention to the business-to-business market, Kazuo Hirai, the chief executive of Sony, has pledged to maintain and turn around the company’s consumer electronics operation.
虽然其他的日本电子产品大公司已经将注意力转移到公司对公司的业务上去，但索尼的总裁平井一夫(Kazuo Hirai)却发誓要将该公司的消费者电子业务维持下去并实现转机。
Sony has reported an uptick in sales of certain electronics items, like smartphones, but its market share in that business remains in the low single digits. And losses in televisions have been mounting. Adding to the recent problems, Sony’s entertainment arm has been hurt by several box-office flops, pushing the company to a net loss of 19.3 billion yen, or $190 million, in the third quarter of last year.
索尼公司报告称其某些电子产品的销售略有增长，比如智能手机，但其在这些产品市场的份额仍只是个位数的低水平。索尼电视机业务的损失则不断增加。除了这些困难之外，索尼的娱乐部门因几部票房收入不佳的电影也受到损失，去年第三季度公司的净损失达1.9亿美元（约合11.4亿元人民币）。
Moody’s said it expected “the majority” of Sony’s consumer electronics business to “continue to face significant downward earnings pressure.”
穆迪称其预计索尼的“大部分”消费者电子产品业务都“将继续面临收入下降的巨大压力。”
“The primary reason is intense competition and the shrinkage in demand, the result in turn of cannibalization caused by the rapid penetration of smartphones,” the agency said.
该机构称，“这种压力的最主要因素是激烈的竞争和需求的缩水，后者是智能手机的迅速渗透所带来的挤兑效应。”
While Mr. Hirai has embarked on a restructuring aimed at cutting costs in the electronics business and focusing on smartphones and other growth markets, Moody’s said the results so far were insufficient for the company to keep its investment-grade rating.
尽管平井一夫已经开始进行重组以降低电子产品业务方面的成本、并将注意力放在智能手机和其他增长市场上，但穆迪称，迄今为止那些做法还很够，不足以让该公司保持投资级别的评分。
Moody’s said it had lowered Sony’s issuer rating and long-term senior unsecured bond rating, to Ba1 from Baa3. It added that the outlook was stable.
穆迪称已将索尼的发行评级以及长期优先无担保债券评级从Baa3下调至Ba1，并补充说，展望是稳定的。
Sony said in a statement: “We do not comment on specific ratings, however we will continue to engage proactively with ratings agencies to clearly communicate our business status.”
索尼公司在一份声明中称：“我们对具体的评级不做评论，但我们将继续积极地与评级机构沟通，清楚地交流我们的业务状态。”