Before it became a political philosophy, liberalism was not that difficult to define: A person was liberal if generous, catholic in taste or even excessively rotund. Liberal people may not have been universally admired, but few took to castigating them as dangerous to the health of the state. The opposite of “liberal” was not “conservative” but “strict.” When Bassanio tells Portia in “The Merchant of Venice” that he will give her “the dearest ring in Venice,” she replies, “I see, sir, you are liberal in offers.” No one in Shakespeare’s audience would have concluded that the dissolute nobleman with whom she banters stood on the left side of the political spectrum.
在成为一种政治哲学之前，自由主义(liberalism)还不是这么难以定义，意思就是一个开明慷慨的的人，有着宽宏的品位，甚至还有些发胖。这样的开明人士未必受到普遍欣赏，但很少有人会觉得他们对于国家来说是危险的。在当时的语境下，自由主义的反义词并不是保守主义，而是严格。在《威尼斯商人》(The Merchant of Venic)中，巴萨尼奥(Bassanio)告诉鲍西亚(Portia)，他要给她戴上“威尼斯最昂贵的戒指”，她回答：“我懂了，先生，您真是自由自在地给予。”莎士比亚(Shakespeare)的观众们听了这段台词，并不会觉得她所取笑的这位风流绅士在政治上站在左翼。
Once it did become a political term — its first significant appearance took place in Spain under Napoleonic occupation — liberalism, although now clearly identified with the political left, began almost immediately to run into considerable definitional difficulties. In the 19th century, a liberal could — in fact most liberals of that era did — distrust democracy; in the 20th, almost no one would confess to such a sin. Liberals could be nationalists or internationalists. They urged war and advocated peace. Some were open to parties to their left, such as socialists and Communists, while others were among the extreme left’s fiercest critics. Down to today, those who insist that markets work best without interference often identify themselves as liberal, if of the “classical” variety, but so do those “modern” liberals who call on government to correct market failures. “The word ‘liberal’ is notoriously slippery,” writes Edmund Fawcett, formerly of The Economist, as he begins “Liberalism: The Life of an Idea,” his richly informative historical tour of liberal leaders and concepts.
后来它成了一个政治术语——自由主义，这个词的第一次重要亮相是在拿破仑占领期间的西班牙，虽然如今它已经成了政治左派的代名词，最早却有着许多定义上的麻烦。在19世纪，一个自由主义者并不相信民主——事实上，那个年代大多数自由主义者都是如此；而在20世纪，没有任何自由主义者会承认自己竟然不相信民主。在过去，自由主义者可能是民族主义者，也有可能是国际主义者，他们有可能支持战争，也可能拥护和平。有些人接受左派思想，比如社会主义或共产主义，也有些人则是极端左派的激烈批评者。到如今，那些主张市场没有干涉会运行得最好的人，通常自称“自由主义者”，作为“古典主义”(classical)的变种，但那些“现代”自由派们认为政府应当修正市场的错误。“‘自由主义者’这个词出了名的靠不住，”《经济学人》(Economist)前记者埃德蒙·福克特(Edmund Fawcett)在《自由主义：一个理念的生涯》(Liberalism: The Life of an Idea)一书开头这样写道。这本书信息丰富，追溯了历史上的自由主义倡导者和自由主义概念。
His “experience as a journalist served him well,” Fawcett says of the British sociologist Leonard Hobhouse. The same could be said about Fawcett. Widely read, apparently conversant in at least three languages and a vivacious writer — one German politician “had a beard like a yew hedge and a frown of stubborn ferocity” — Fawcett aims to make liberalism comprehensible to contemporary readers. To do so, he takes a commendably liberal approach, bringing as many within the tent as possible. Liberals, he insists, do not argue from a doctrinal checklist so much as they understand that conflict is unavoidable, distrust unjust authority, hold faith in progress and respect all, or at least most, people. It is more a way of doing politics than it is a fixed political position. The term is capacious enough to include both Jean-Paul Sartre and Milton Friedman, George Orwell along with Margaret Thatcher.
关于英国社会学家莱昂纳德·霍布豪斯(Leonard Hobhouse)，福克特写道，“记者生涯对他很有帮助”。同样的话也可以用在他自己身上。福克特广泛阅读，至少通晓三种语言，是个活泼的写作者——他描述某位德国政治家“络腮胡子就像杉木篱笆，蹙起的眉头带着顽固的凶狠”——福克特旨在令当代读者更好地了解自由主义，为此，他采取了兼容并包的方式，尽可能地涉及很多东西。他坚持说，自由主义者并不是拿着学术清单跟人争论，他们理解冲突不可避免、不信任不公正的权威、相信进步，尊重一切，至少是尊重大多数人。它更像是一种从事政治活动的方式，而不是一种固定的政治立场。这个词很有包容性，从让-保罗·萨特(Jean-Paul Sartre)到米尔顿·弗里德曼(Milton Friedman)，从乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)到玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)都可以被囊括其中。
Fawcett devotes roughly equal attention to liberalism’s origins in the middle decades of the 19th century, its late-19th- and early-20th-century struggles with democracy, and its post-World War II resurgence, before briefly pondering its likely future. Names and events whiz by as he jumps from one country to another, offering synopses of innumerable books, some famous and others obscure, brief biographical vignettes and accounts of policies both successful and failed. Fawcett bends over backward to include nations. Germany, he insists, ought to be part of the liberal story, and he profiles figures largely unrecognizable to English-­language readers, such as Hermann Schulze-Delitzsch, an advocate of mutualism, otherwise known as the cooperative movement; as well as Bismarck’s opponent Eugen Richter, he of the yewlike beard.
福克特还同样关注自由主义在19世纪中叶的起源，它在19世纪末到20世纪初与民主的斗争，乃至它在“二战”之后的复苏，最后简要总结了它有可能的未来。他从一个世纪跳到另一个世纪，人名与事件层出不穷，还给出无数书籍的内容概括，有些是名著，也有些冷门的书目；此外还有人物小传，以及成功或失败的政策的描述。福克特尽量把所有国家都包括在内，甚至有些过头。比如，他说德国也应当在自由主义的故事中占有一席之地，然而他写到的人物对于英语读者来说大都很陌生，比如海尔曼·舒尔茨-德里奇(Hermann Schulze-Delitzsch)，他是互惠主义，也就是合作运动的倡导者；此外还有俾斯麦(Bismarck)的对手欧根·里克特(Eugen Richter)，就是络腮胡子像篱笆的那一位。
A liberal surely ought to be inclusive, but Fawcett, in my view, is in this respect far too much so. The Savoyard royalist Joseph de Maistre, as anti-liberal a figure as one can find, is rightly called a “conservative reactionary,” but the Nazi lawyer Carl Schmitt, who comes in a close second, is characterized, wrongly, as “ambiguous.” Because liberals accept conflict as inevitable, Fawcett discusses the ideas of John C. Calhoun, the South Carolina politician who drew up an elaborate scheme to protect minority rights. But Calhoun belongs with de Maistre and Schmitt, not James Madison (with whom Fawcett pairs him). “Whatever form it took, over interests, beliefs or ways of life,” as Fawcett himself characterizes the liberal perspective, “the thought was that conflict must be tamed, transformed into competition and made fruitful in trade, experiment and argument.” Calhoun, by contrast, devoted his life to defending the narrow interests of slaveholders and justifying the brutal way of life that came with it. The conflict his passions helped bring about was famously irrepressible — and anything but fruitful.
自由主义者当然应该兼容并包，但在我看来，福克特在这一点上做得有点过了头。萨瓦地区的保皇党人约瑟夫·德·梅斯特(Joseph de Maistr)从各方面都是反自由主义者，说他是“保守主义者”也没错，但是紧接着又说纳粹律师卡尔·施密特(Carl Schmitt)“立场暧昧”就不对了。因为自由主义者认为冲突是不可避免的，福克特就探讨了南卡罗来纳州政治家约翰·C·卡尔霍恩(John C. Calhoun)的理念，卡尔霍恩曾经精心制定方案，保护少数人的权利。但卡尔霍恩应当与德·梅斯特和施密特归为一类，而不是像福克特书中那样，和詹姆斯·麦迪逊(James Madison)相提并论。“不管采取何种形式，不管出于什么利益、信念或生活方式，”福克特这样描述自由主义观点，“自由主义观念是，冲突应当被抑制和改造为竞争，在贸易、实验和争论中取得成果。”而卡尔霍恩却与此相反，他毕生都在致力于保护奴隶主的狭窄利益，并把伴随奴隶制度而来的残忍生活方式正当化。对于后来那场无可避免的著名冲突，他的激情也有贡献——但却没有取得什么好的成果。
Historians of ideas, especially liberal ones, nearly always stumble on what has been called das Adam Smith Problem: How can we reconcile Smith’s defense of the impersonal market in “The Wealth of Nations” with his insistence on the importance of sympathy in “The Theory of Moral Sentiments”? Fawcett, who views Smith as a pre-liberal, thankfully skips over this issue. Alas, however, this only means that he comes face to face with das Friedrich Hayek Problem. Hayek, the 20th-­century Austrian-born laissez-faire economist, is immensely important to Fawcett and a recurrent character in the book. Yet how can Hayek’s insistence on spontaneity and freedom be reconciled with his intellectual rigidity, distrust of progress and unconcern with social justice? Fawcett concludes that no such reconciliation is possible. “The suspicion never went away that his entire system rested on expediency — that no concern, in other words, be it for justice, law, rights or privacy — mattered save as how it furthered economic growth.” This is regrettably awkward prose. Who has such suspicions? I know I do. Does Fawcett?
思想史学家，特别是自由主义的史学家几乎总在摸索所谓的“亚当·斯密(Adam Smith)问题”：斯密在《国富论》(The Wealth of Nations)中对没有人情味的市场进行辩护，而在《道德情操论》(The Theory of Moral Sentiments)中又主张同情心的重要性，我们该如何把二者调合起来？福克特觉得斯密是一位前自由主义者，于是高高兴兴地忽略了这个问题。不过，这只是意味着他得直面弗里德里希·哈耶克(Friedrich Hayek)问题。哈耶克是20世纪奥地利经济学家，主张自由放任主义，他对于福克特来说非常重要，是全书中经常出现的人物。哈耶克极力主张自发性与自由，同时在智力方面非常固执，不信任进步，不关心社会正义，这两方面又怎样调和起来呢？福克特总结说，这样的调和是不可能的。“他的整个系统都建立在权宜之计上，这种质疑从未消失——换言之，其他都不重要，不管是正义、法律、权利还是隐私——除非它们能促进经济增长。”令人遗憾的是，这段话太笨拙了。谁有这样的质疑？我知道我确实有，但福克特自己有没有呢？
It is not Fawcett’s task to award a prize to history’s greatest liberal. Still, there is one thinker in this book whose ideas come up for discussion whenever he seeks to explain liberalism’s most characteristic ideas. John Stuart Mill indeed deserves the honor. Although he could be snobbish toward the masses, Mill leaves much to admire. “On Liberty” is a beautifully written, and highly teachable, introduction to liberal thinking. Inspired by the love of his life, Harriet Taylor, Mill wrote more sympathetically about women’s equality than any other man of his time. His economic ideas, anything but rigid, changed to meet the conditions of changing economies. He hated slavery and took the North’s side in the American Civil War. His essays on Bentham and Coleridge, which Fawcett cites with admiration, demonstrate his unerring ear for what even problematic thinkers can teach. “Nobody since has offered as many-sided or candid a statement of the conflicting pressures within the liberal creed,” Fawcett writes of Mill. On this point he is completely correct.
福克特的任务并不是给历史上最伟大的自由主义者颁奖。但是在书中，每当福克特想要解释自由主义最典型的理念，就会提到这样一位思想家——约翰·斯图尔特·穆勒(John Stuart Mill)。穆勒也的确当得起这份荣誉。尽管他对大众的态度颇为势利，但还是有很多值得敬佩之处。《论自由》(On Liberty)文笔优美，极具教育意义，是自由主义思想的入门。穆勒受到毕生挚爱哈莉特·泰勒(Harriet Taylor)启发，与同时期的男性相比，他在写作中对女性的平等权利更具同情心。他憎恨奴隶制，在南北战争中支持北方。福克特带着敬仰引用穆勒关于边沁(Bentham)和柯勒律治(Coleridge)的文章，表明他对于那些有争议的思想家的可取观点有着准确无误的看法。福克特写道：“穆勒以降，没有人能够以自由主义观点，就互相冲突的力量发表这样多角度或不偏不倚的观点。”就这一点而言，他完全正确。