In the beginning, it was obvious who should be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Elvis Presley, Chuck Berry, Ray Charles, the Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Little Richard, James Brown, Bob Dylan: All were giants whose selection no one could quarrel with.
一开始，谁有资格进入摇滚名人堂是显而易见的。埃尔维斯·普莱斯利(Elvis Presley)、查克·贝里(Chuck Berry)、雷·查尔斯(Ray Charles)、披头士(Beatles)、滚石(Rolling Stones)、小理查德(Little Richard)、詹姆斯·布朗(James Brown)、鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)——他们都是当之无愧的巨人。
But after 30 years of pop music splintering into ever more genres, the choices are no longer so evident, a situation that has led to an increasingly intense generational and stylistic debate about the selections and the process. At the same time, a longstanding aesthetic argument about the relative weight of popularity versus musical excellence also seems to be deepening. In both cases, the issue is basically this: Is there a canon, and if so, who belongs to it, and who gets to decide?
但是流行音乐经过30年的发展，分出了更多种类，选择不再那么明显，因此在入选者与选择程序上产生了日益激烈的世代与风格之争。与此同时，“广泛的流行程度与优秀的音乐孰重孰轻”，这个旷日持久的美学争论似乎进一步深化了。关于这两个问题，最根本的一点就是：是否存在一个统一标准，如果有，谁符合这个标准、谁又有权做出决定？
This year’s class, which is to be inducted at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on Thursday, embodies all of those controversies. After years of rejection, the 1970s glam rock band Kiss, derided by its many critics as schlockmeisters but with a large and passionate fan base known as the Kiss Army, is finally getting in. So are Nirvana — on its first try — as well as Peter Gabriel, Linda Ronstadt, Cat Stevens and Hall & Oates.
今年的名人堂入驻仪式于周四在布鲁克林的巴克利中心举行，它体现了上述所有争论。20世纪70年代的华丽摇滚乐队“吻”(Kiss) 多年来被名人堂拒之门外，被许多评论家讥为次品，但它有着众多狂热粉丝，被称为“吻之军团”(Kiss Army)，今年“吻”终于进入了名人堂。“涅槃”(Nirvana)，今年第一次尝试就进入了名人堂，此外入驻的还有彼得·加布里尔(Peter Gabriel)、琳达·朗丝黛(Linda Ronstadt)、卡特·史蒂文斯(Cat Stevens)和“霍尔与奥茨”(Hall & Oates)。
But the rap pioneers N.W.A. were passed over, an omission that led to a barrage of complaints from younger critics and hip-hop fans. Also overlooked was the Paul Butterfield Blues Band, which was one of the most influential American groups of the 1960s despite never having been awarded one of the gold records that are the hallmarks of commercial success.
但说唱乐先驱N.W.A却被拒绝，这引发了年轻评论家和嘻哈乐歌迷的诸多抱怨。同样被忽略的还有保罗·巴塔菲尔德布鲁斯乐队(Paul Butterfield Blues Band)，这是20世纪60年代最有影响力的美国团体之一，但他们从未能取得标志着商业成功的金唱片成绩。
By design, the selection process for the Hall of Fame, which is in Cleveland, aims to be opaque as a way to avoid the kind of lobbying that has overtaken the Oscars. But in interviews, those involved in the deliberations, including a half-dozen members of the nominating committee, provided rare glimpses into the process.
摇滚名人堂位于克利夫兰，按照设计，选择入驻者的程序应当是不公开的，以免出现奥斯卡奖中那种游说现象。涉及资格评审的六名成员提名委员会成员在接受采访时让我们得以罕有地窥见决策过程。
“Unlike the Baseball Hall of Fame, we are not dealing primarily with statistical criteria,” Jon Landau, chairman of the nominating committee, said in what he called his most detailed interview about its deliberations. “It’s not how many tickets or records you sold or Grammys you won. We realize we are into a very subjective area, that we are trying to recognize musical quality and excellence and that different people naturally have different ideas.”
“和棒球名人堂不同，我们不是和大量统计标准打交道，”提名委员会主席琼恩·兰道(Jon Landau)说，他还表示，本次采访是他就名人堂资格评审接受的采访中最详尽的一次。“并不是看你卖出了多少演出门票或专辑，或是你赢了几次格莱美奖。我们知道，这个领域非常主观，我们试图按音乐的质量和音乐是否优秀去评判，这一点不同的人自然有不同的看法。”
Membership in the Hall is primarily a matter of prestige, with performers becoming eligible 25 years after their first commercial release. But induction often leads to an uptick in record sales, can revive a moribund career and has in some instances encouraged bands to reunite and tour again.
名人堂的成员首先要具有一定威望，表演者发行的第一张商业专辑需有25年以上历史。但获得提名通常会引起唱片销量上升，可以重振停滞不前的演艺事业，有时候还会鼓舞乐队重组和重新巡演。
Inductees are chosen in a two-step process that begins in September, when the nominating committee of about 35 members, composed of critics, musicians, record label executives and managers, meets in a conference room at the headquarters of Rolling Stone magazine in New York.
选择入驻者分两步进行，程序从9月开始，提名委员会有35名成员，由乐评人、音乐家、唱片厂牌高管和经纪人组成。委员会总部设在《滚石》(Rolling Stone)杂志的纽约编辑部，委员们在那里的一个会议室里开会。
After a dozen or so nominees are chosen, their names are submitted to a larger group of more than 600 voters, who include previous Hall of Fame inductees and a mix of music industry figures and critics. Voters receive an advocacy sheet for each nominee, are supplied a link that allows them to listen to tracks that are meant to exemplify the candidate’s work, and then they cast their ballots, with the top five or six vote getters emerging as honorees.
选出十几个提名者后，这些名字便被提交给由600名投票者组成的团体，他们包括名人堂之前的入驻者，以及若干音乐产业内部人士和乐评人。投票者们会得到每位候选者的入选理由，附有网络连接，以便他们听到候选者的经典作品，然后投票者进行投票，获票数最多的五六名候选者获得入驻名人堂荣誉。
But some members of the nominating committee talk of a growing disconnect between their body and the larger one. Candidates they have endorsed with great enthusiasm don’t get into the Hall, while others who barely made the initial cut sail right in.
但是有些提名委员会的成员说，提名委员会与投票委员会之间的分歧愈来愈大，他们非常热心推荐的候选人无法进入名人堂，而他们勉强塞进候选名单的候选者却一帆风顺地进去了。
“There’s a very basic split to begin with between us and the voting membership, not to mention the public,” one member of the nominating committee said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of rules discouraging public discussion. “Maybe it’s self-serving, but I think we are more open-minded and avant-garde than the voting membership, which tends to be more conservative or at least mainstream” in its taste.
“我们和投票者们从一开始就有基本的分歧，更不用说和公众了，”提名委员会的一个成员说，他要求不透露姓名，因为委员会的规则不允许公开谈论这个话题。“或许这有些自私，但我觉得和投票委员会相比，我们更开明、更前卫，投票委员会则比较保守，至少是（在品味上）更加主流。”
In recent years, the Hall of Fame Foundation, which runs the proceedings, has sought to bring more diversity to the nominating committee while keeping the numbers at a manageable size. Younger people have been invited to join, and the number of nonwhite and female members has also grown: Among those recently added to the nominating committee are the musicians Tom Morello, 39, of Rage Against the Machine, and Questlove, 43, of the Roots, both of whom argued strongly in favor of Kiss’s induction, according to other members of the committee. The larger voting body has also been made more diverse: One vote is even given to fans, the result of an online poll.
近年来，主办这项活动的名人堂基金会希望令提名委员会更加多元化，同时把人数控制在一定范围内。他们邀请年轻人加入提名委员会，非白人和女性委员也在增加。新近加入提名委员会的人包括39岁的汤姆·莫瑞洛(Tom Morello)，“愤怒反抗机器”(Rage Against the Machine)的成员；以及43岁的奎斯特拉夫(Questlove)，“根”(Roots)乐队的成员。委员会的其他成员说，这两人都强烈支持“吻”入选。人数更多的投票委员会也变得更加多元化：其中一票由歌迷在线投票决定。
Another recent innovation has been the creation of special subcommittees to examine and advocate for specific genres that the Hall has often been accused of slighting. Hip-hop falls into that category, as do progressive rock and heavy metal.
近期还有一项改革举措，就是设立了小组委员会，审视并支持那些特殊的音乐类型，此前经常有人指责名人堂忽视这些类型，比如嘻哈乐、前卫摇滚和重金属。
“We needed to deepen our bench,” said Mr. Landau, a former critic who manages Bruce Springsteen. “We are now moving into a period in which music got more nichified and genres got distinct from each other. Nobody is an expert in all of it. We need to make sure we have people who can speak with depth and knowledge about various genres and pieces of the puzzle.”
“委员会成员需要进行深化，”兰道说，他曾是乐评人，也曾给布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀(Bruce Springsteen)当过经纪人。“我们正在进入这样一个时期：音乐变得更加小圈子化，各种音乐类型之间变得更加泾渭分明。没有人在所有领域内都是专家。我们需要确保委员会里有人能就各种类型做出具有深度和知识背景的评论，凑成完整的拼图。”
Even with his own band finally being inducted, Gene Simmons, Kiss’s frontman, could not resist taking a dig at the selection process and reviving another old debate. In a radio interview last month, he argued that neither hip-hop acts nor dance music performers like Donna Summer and Madonna should be in the Hall.
尽管“吻”最终进入名人堂，乐队领队吉恩·西蒙斯(Gene Simmons)还是忍不住挖苦评选过程，从而重新激起另一场旷日持久的争论。在上个月的一次广播电台采访中，他说嘻哈乐乐手，以及唐娜·萨莫(Donna Summer)和麦当娜(Madonna)之类舞曲歌手都不应该入驻名人堂。
“If you don’t play guitar and you don’t write your own songs, you don’t belong there,” he said. He added: “You’ve got Grandmaster Flash in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame? Run-D.M.C. in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame? You’re killing me. That doesn’t mean they aren’t good artists. But they don’t play guitar. They sample, and they talk. Not even sing.”
“如果你不会弹吉他，也不会自己写歌，你就不属于那儿，”他说。他还说，“你们让“特级大师闪电”(Grandmaster Flash)进了摇滚名人堂？Run-D.M.C进摇滚名人堂？真是要了我的命。我不是说他们不是好艺人，但他们不弹吉他，他们采样。他们说话，甚至都不唱歌。”
But the nominating committee has been specifically instructed to take the broadest possible view of what rock ’n’ and roll is. “The nature of this music is its hybrid form, so we decided to be inclusive,” said Jann Wenner, a founder of Rolling Stone magazine and, along with Ahmet Ertegun, a founder of Atlantic Records, a driving force behind the creation of the Hall. “Rock and roll has always thrived on being a great river with all these tributaries flowing into it, whether country rock, acid, dance music or hip-hop.”
但是提名委员会被特意告知，要从最广泛的可能性出发，去定义摇滚乐。“这种音乐的本质就在于它的杂交性质，所以我们决定兼容并包，”《滚石》杂志的创始人让·温纳(Jann Wenner)说，他与大西洋唱片公司的创始人阿麦特·厄蒂冈(Ahmet Ertegun)是创建名人堂的主要力量。“摇滚乐的洪流一直是依靠各种支流不断汇入，不管是乡村摇滚、迷幻音乐、舞曲还是嘻哈乐。”
Because of the broad definition of what constitutes rock ’n’ roll and the limited number of slots available annually, some mainstream acts continue to wait in the wings, to the annoyance of some committee members. In interviews, several mentioned names like Gram Parsons, Roxy Music, the Meters, Brian Eno, Procol Harum and Kraftwerk. “I find the process frustrating, because the nozzle is so small,” one of them said.
因为名人堂采取摇滚乐的广泛定义，以及每年的入选者名额有限，若干重要艺人还得继续排队等待，一些委员会成员对此感到不快。在采访中，有些委员提起了未能入选的格兰姆·帕森斯(Gram Parsons)、洛克西音乐(Roxy Music)、Meters、布莱恩·伊诺(Brian Eno)、普罗考·哈伦姆(Procol Harum)和“发电站”(Kraftwerk)等名字。“我觉得评选过程很让人沮丧，因为最终当选人数太少了，”一个委员说。