When dining options run from faux retro bistros to sharing a distressed farmhouse table with strangers, there is something wonderfully enchanting about old restaurants that seem preserved in amber — white tablecloths, old-fashioned menus and all.
如今，人们外出就餐的选择空前繁多，从故作复古状的小餐馆到在貌似破旧的农舍餐桌上与陌生人共餐，不一而足，但那些如同裹在琥珀中保存下来的真正的老餐厅——白色的餐桌布、老式的菜单等等——却愈加显得魅力无穷。
In an iconic scene at the “21” club in “The Sweet Smell of Success,” when Burt Lancaster, as the columnist J. J. Hunsecker, snaps at the waiter, complaining that his drinks are warm, the waiter tries to explain, and Hunsecker shoots back coldly, “What are you, a critic?” Even with the banquettes and checked tablecloths rendered in black and white, the mood of the place is captured: the clattering conversation, the sizzling steak, the frost on the perfectly stirred martini, the sense that something was happening that was worth being a part of.
在1957年美国电影《成功的滋味》(The Sweet Smell of Success)中有这样一个经典场景：博特·兰卡斯特(Burt Lancaster)扮演的专栏作家韩塞克(J. J. Hunsecker)在“21俱乐部”餐厅中因为酒是热的而向侍者发火，后者试图解释时，被他冷淡地打断：“你是谁啊？评论家吗？”虽然皮面转角长椅和方格图案的桌布在这部黑白片中都显得色彩单调，但餐厅的气氛令人神往：谈笑风生的对话、吱吱作响的牛排、调得恰到好处的马丁尼杯上的水雾，以及那种值得跻身其中的感觉。
Can you miss what you’ve never known? It’s easy to romanticize what’s past, to lament restaurants we never knew, dreaming of watching cooks make butter cakes in the foggy windows of Childs, waltzing into Le Pavillon for coq au vin or Luchow’s for sauerbraten, and taking ladies’ lunch at Mary Elizabeth’s. The remaining institutions take on a definite luster, a sort of faded chic. Part of it is, paradoxically, novelty: certain old restaurants, because they have not changed, now feel increasingly special, almost like stage sets come to life.
你真的会怀念那些从未经历过的事物吗？人们很容易将逝去的东西浪漫化，为从未光顾过那些老餐厅而感到惆怅，梦想着透过恰尔兹（Childs，1920-30年代风靡美国的连锁餐馆—译注）蒙着雾气的玻璃窗观看厨师们制作奶油蛋糕；或是翩然步入Le Pavillon餐厅享用法式红酒炖鸡，到曼哈顿的卢乔餐厅(Luchow’s)吃德式糖醋烤牛肉，或是光顾玛丽·伊丽莎白茶馆(Mary Elizabeth’s)的女士午餐。那些存留下来的历史悠久的餐厅都笼罩了一种不容置疑的光环，一种已经褪色的别样风情。在某种程度上，这是一种自相矛盾的“新奇感”：某些老餐厅因为从未改变，因而显得愈加特别，如同复活的舞台道具。
I understand the appeal of pulling up a stool to a communal table and learning about my wild-foraged meal from an earnest waiter. But there is something deeply comforting about knowing exactly what the expectations and boundaries of a meal are, whether that means a napkin crisply refolded when you rise from the table, a Manhattan expertly mixed with no “surprising” or “interesting” twists, or a water glass refilled so deftly your conversation doesn’t falter. Without falling into clichés about the state of the modern restaurant, there are things we miss about the old days — even if we have only seen them on screen.
我能理解，人们喜欢拉过一把圆凳，坐在长条桌前倾听健谈的侍者讲述盘中餐食是如何在野外猎获的。但是，如果心知肚明对一餐该有何种期待，有何规矩约束，那也是一种非常安逸的感觉，无论这意味着离桌起身时整齐地重新叠好餐巾，一杯精心调制、毫不出格的曼哈顿鸡尾酒，或是侍者小心地为客人杯中续水，并未干扰他们的谈话。我不想对当今餐馆内的情形指手画脚，但我们对老餐馆总有种怀旧之情——即使我们只是在影视屏幕上见过它们。
In an age of studied casualness, of competitive waiting in line and chef-stalking and meal-Instagramming, of pedigreed pigs and forced intimacy with your neighbors’ elbows, it is novel to be served by a dignified career waiter in a jacket who knows his business. It is relaxing to look at a menu and (with the exception of certain démodé concoctions) know exactly what you’re getting. And most magical of all, it is astounding to be transported to a time when people not only dressed up, but also when your chair was pulled out for you and your cigarette (yes, cigarette!) was lit before it had reached your lips.
在这个刻意营造“随意”风格的时代，在人们争相在火爆餐馆前排起长队、如同追星一般追捧名厨、为盘中餐拍照发上Instagram、猪肉也要讲血统、空间逼仄以至与邻座食客摩肩接踵的时代，能遇到有尊严、穿西装的专业侍者为你服务，是件新鲜事。你在菜单上一眼就能看出自己想要点什么（某些过气的菜品除外），是多么令人心旷神怡的感觉。而最具震撼魔力的是，走进一家餐馆即被带回那旧日时光——侍者不但会为你拉出座椅，甚至会在你拿出香烟（是的，香烟！）尚未沾唇时即帮你点燃。
There has been a vogue for quite a while for new, sepia-toned, retro-style restaurants: Keith McNally’s carefully applied Parisian patinas; the cocktail-bar trend chock-full of youthful mixologists in mustaches and suspenders; the Torrisi boys’ series of painstaking re-creations in downtown Manhattan, from buzzy “red sauce” Carbone — complete with ironically heavy menus and thick napery — to the carefully composed ZZ’s Clam Bar. 
一段时间以来，某些新开的复古餐厅一直颇为流行。这些餐馆有着发黄老照片一般的色调：纽约餐饮大亨基斯·麦克奈利(Keith McNally)的饭店里那种精心雕琢的巴黎风情；各种流行鸡尾酒吧里一众留小胡子、穿吊裤带的年轻调酒师；桃丽丝意大利餐厅在曼哈顿市中心的几家分店中，费尽心机地营造复古氛围——以红色酱料为特色的Carbone（这家餐馆的大本菜单和质地厚实的餐巾颇有讽刺意味）和精心设计的ZZ海鲜吧。
These places are fun, but they lack the charm of spots that actually are preserved in amber, that have been doing the same thing, un-self-consciously, for decades. Going to those new-wave old-school places can feel like visiting Plimoth Plantation, pretending we live in a time when eating out was glamorous and special, reserved for either the fabulous or an occasion. On any night, you can choose between a reconstituted meal from 1962 and a deconstructed chicken-and-waffle, possibly in cocktail form, and definitely locally sourced. Restaurateurs today are often great showmen and indifferent hosts — but sometimes don’t we all want to feel not like spectators or critics or pals, but like guests?
这些餐馆都还有趣，但是它们缺少那些真正历史悠久的餐馆把同一件事做上几十年的那种漫不经心的魅力。光顾这些“新潮复古餐厅”就好像是参观一个模拟原生态的博物馆，假装还生活在一个外出就餐仍具有某种特别荣光的时代，只有有钱的名流或是为了庆祝什么才会光顾餐厅。如今，不论在哪个晚上出去就餐，你都能点到一份根据1962年的老菜谱做出的菜肴，或是经过“解构”的美式经典炸鸡和华夫饼——不过现在很可能以鸡尾酒便餐的形式呈现，并且肯定是完全使用本地食材。如今的餐厅业主们经常喜欢作秀，而对顾客爱答不理——但是，有些时候，难道我们不都想摆脱扮演看客、食评家或是老友的角色，而仅仅作为顾客，享受到应有的服务吗？
There is an undeniable charm to being cosseted in the deep banquettes and soft carpeting of La Grenouille, deep in Butterfield 8 country, where the atmosphere is quiet enough for gossip with even the most ancient companion. The social X-rays may be wheelchair-bound these days, but you can still conjure a defiant Nan Kempner striding through La Côte Basque, now closed, in just the tunic jacket of her Yves Saint Laurent suit, having removed her trousers, which were prohibited for women. Part of the appeal of the remaining Manhattan bastions is this sort of history. At La Grenouille, the anachronisms live on: damned if the waiters aren’t still ceremoniously sprinkling croutons on your split-pea soup.
坐在曼哈顿法式餐厅La Grenouille那深深的皮面转角长椅中，踩着它柔软的地毯，有一种不可否认的魅力，如同伊丽莎白·泰勒主演的老电影《巴特菲尔德8号》的场景，异常幽静，即使与老态龙钟的餐伴也有各种八卦可聊。这位当年的社交名媛或许已经坐上了轮椅，但餐厅的气氛仍能让你回想起昔日纽约时尚界女王南·坎普纳(Nan Kempner)的英姿：某次她身穿伊夫圣洛朗的西裤套装光临如今已经关门的La Côte Basque餐厅，由于违反着装要求被拒绝入内，于是她脱下裤子，仅着西装上衣傲然步入餐厅。对于那些今天仍然健在的曼哈顿老餐厅来说，这种名流轶事也是其历史魅力的一部分。在La Grenouille，一些看似过时的旧习俗保留至今：如果侍者端上豌豆汤时没有煞有介事地在上面洒些面包屑，你可以说他。
The cozy, classic, golden-lit bistro atmosphere of the perennially chic, consummately Parisian Le Voltaire is a Gallic analogue. Yes, you are surrounded by the Seventh Arrondissement homes of Parisian aristocrats. Yes, that man over there is Valentino; yes, every other table in the tiny room is occupied by an elegant, monied regular. But there is a genuine patina that McNally can only dream of. London’s Gay Hussar, where generations of Labour M.P.’s have been spooning up chilled cherry soup, chicken paprikash and other once-exotic Hungarian fare in caricature-covered Soho surroundings since the 1950s, is, frankly, dowdy. But when you walk in, you’re not merely transported but instantly comforted. Even if you’ve never been there before.
而巴黎那舒适而又经典、金光笼罩、永不落俗的Le Voltaire餐馆，简直就是巴黎风情和高卢精神的终极体现。是的，你身边环绕的就是巴黎第七区的贵族宅邸；是的，旁边那个人就是瓦伦蒂诺(Valentino)；是的，小小的餐厅内每张桌边坐的都是一个优雅而富有的常客。但是，这里有一种纽约的迈克奈利饭店(McNally)做梦也得不到的真实的魅力。在伦敦苏活区的Gay Hussar，自1950年代以来无数工党议员都曾在这间墙上挂满政客漫画的餐馆里享用冷樱桃汤、红椒鸡以及其他种种一度难得一见的匈牙利美食。尽管说实话它已经略显过时，但走进来，你不仅仅是进入了一个特定的空间，而且会立即感到身心舒畅，即使你此前从未光顾过。
All of these places will make you feel at home, appreciated and relaxed, whether that means the bustle of the Tadich Grill in San Francisco — the air filled with the cacophony of martini shakers, the menu full of lobster thermidors and crab Louies, the long wooden bar packed with a mix of gregarious businesspeople and, somehow, always someone you haven’t seen in 10 years — or the rougher environment of the old Parisian Right Bank worker’s restaurant, Bouillon Chartier, with its enormous Art Nouveau interior, where the unflappable waiters tot up the bills on the paper tablecloths of prostitutes and tourists alike and the unadorned steaks and escargots are plopped down with all the grace of a Dickensian workhouse. 
这些老餐厅都会让你有宾至如归的感觉，舒适而放松。无论是旧金山的Tadich海鲜烧烤餐厅——这里的空气中永远充斥着马丁尼调酒器嘈杂的撞击声，菜单上尽是法式焗龙虾或螃蟹沙拉等菜肴，长长的木质吧台前总是聚着一群爱扎堆的生意人，并且你在这里总会遇到十年未见的老相识；或是巴黎右岸那些更为粗犷的工人餐馆，例如Bouillon Chartier，那里有巨大的新艺术风格的内饰，一副见过大世面样子的侍者们无论对待妓女还是游客都一视同仁，在他们的纸质桌布上计算账单，食客们狼吞虎咽着卖相朴素的牛排或焗蜗牛，如同在狄更斯作品中穷人收容所里一样不拘小节。
Antoine’s Restaurant, in the French Quarter of New Orleans, is the oldest restaurant in the country still owned by its original family, and claims the invention of oysters Rockefeller more than 100 years ago. At Galatoire’s nearby on Bourbon Street, the same families have been dining on turtle soup and bread pudding beneath the ceiling fans in the fleur-de-lis-patterned dining room for generations; many of the waiters have been working there for generations, too. When people are at ease with what they do — like any good host — it puts you at ease, too.
新奥尔良法国区的安东餐馆，是美国历史最久的仍由创始家族经营的老餐馆，据称“洛克菲勒烤生蚝”就是100多年前由这家餐馆初创的。在不远处的波本街上的Galatoire’s法式餐厅，在装饰着鸢尾草图案的空间里、在吊扇下享用海龟汤和面包布丁的，还是那些人家的不同代人。那里的不少侍者也是世代在此工作。当好客的主人对自己的工作感到舒适自如，你也会感到身心舒畅。
Now, I admit that I have been known to romanticize anything that’s still standing after a few decades. When people make the mistake of asking me to pick a restaurant, a horrible choice lies before me: name something innocuous and modern that everyone will enjoy, or go somewhere I really like, and risk depressing my guests, alienating new friends and exposing myself as an irredeemable eccentric. I have learned that while a lemon tenderly wrapped in cheesecloth, a little round of waxed paper on the butter pat and a flaming chafing dish may make my heart go pitter-pat, the reaction from others is often confusion, suspicion or dismay. “Just the words ‘El Quijote’ make me want to kill myself,” said one friend flatly, in response to my suggestion of the ancient “La Mancha”-themed lobster palace in the Chelsea Hotel.
我承认，我本人一向喜欢把持续存在几十年以上的东西浪漫化。当人们犯下让我挑选餐馆的错误时，我就面临着痛苦的选择：或者推荐几家摩登而毫无特色，但人人都会喜欢的餐厅，或是去我非常钟意的地方，但要冒着可能让我的客人感到沮丧、得罪新朋友并且暴露出我就是个不可救药的怪人的风险。我已经认识到，尽管一只用纱布精心包裹的柠檬、切块黄油上盖着的一小块蜡纸、一只点着火的暖锅都可能让我感到一阵愉悦，但其他人的反应往往都是困惑、怀疑甚至是不快。某次，当我向一位朋友建议去切尔西酒店中那家历史悠久的“拉曼查”（塞万提斯作品中堂吉诃德的故乡——译注）风格的龙虾餐厅吃饭时，这位朋友直截了当地说：“光是听到‘堂吉诃德餐厅’这个名字就让我想自杀！”
So I eat by myself. Recently, in need of a lift, and perhaps influenced by a repeat viewing of “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” I put on a cocktail dress, hopped on the subway and treated myself to dinner at the “21” Club. I checked my coat and followed the waiter — a younger man whom I didn’t recognize — through the crowd of older diners to a table that, I hoped, was not too Siberian. I ordered a martini and surveyed the scene; not full, and not, perhaps, a power crowd, but still unmistakably “21.” 
所以，我一个人吃饭。最近的一天，我需要调整下心情，或许是受了重温电影《蒂芙尼的早餐》(Breakfast at Tiffany’s)的影响，我穿上件鸡尾酒晚宴礼服，坐地铁来到“21俱乐部”，一个人奢侈一次。我存了大衣，跟随一位我不认识的年轻侍者穿过一群上了年纪的食客，走向我的桌子——我希望我的桌子不要太偏僻。我点了一杯马丁尼，打量了一下四周——没有满座，当天食客们似乎也不是最有趣的一群人，但仍旧是不折不扣的“21俱乐部”。
I imagined that the smells, the sounds and — from certain angles — the view were the same my grandparents had experienced. The waiter brought me a large, heavy menu, but I already knew what I wanted, and when he returned after a decorous interval, I asked for a longtime signature dish of the place: steak Diane, flambéed tableside. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I don’t know how to make it.” I felt very sad for a moment, and very nostalgic, as if it was the end of an era. And then I realized that I’d never even had the dish in real life.
我想象着，这里的气味、声音——从某些角度看，还有这里的景象——也许与我的祖父母当年在这里感受到的并无差别。那位侍者拿来一本厚重的菜谱，但我早知道自己要点什么。在他礼貌地给我片刻时间后，回到桌前时，我点了这里的多年招牌菜：在桌边烤制的戴安娜牛排。“抱歉，”他说，“我不知道这道菜。”有那么片刻，我很难过，也很怀旧，似乎这就是一个时代的结束。随后，我忽然意识到：其实我在现实生活中从没吃过这道菜。