PRAGUE — THERE’S a lot of hand-wringing about our warming planet, but billions of people face a more immediate problem: They are desperately poor, and many cook and heat their homes using open fires or leaky stoves that burn dirty fuels like wood, dung, crop waste and coal.
布拉格——许多人因为地球变暖而寝食难安，但别忘了，还有数十亿人面临着一个更紧迫的问题：他们极度贫困，许多人要用明火或残破的炉灶取暖做饭，燃烧着不清洁的燃料，比如木头、粪肥、农作物秸秆以及煤炭。
About 3.5 million of them die prematurely each year as a result of breathing the polluted air inside their homes — about 200,000 more than the number who die prematurely each year from breathing polluted air outside, according to a study by the World Health Organization.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的一项研究显示，每年大约有350万上述人口因为在家中吸入受污染的空气而过早死亡——比因为在户外呼吸了污染空气而过早死亡的人数高出大约20万人。
There’s no question that burning fossil fuels is leading to a warmer climate and that addressing this problem is important. But doing so is a question of timing and priority. For many parts of the world, fossil fuels are still vital and will be for the next few decades, because they are the only means to lift people out of the smoke and darkness of energy poverty.
毫无疑问，燃烧化石燃料正在引发气候变暖，解决这个问题十分必要，但也要看时机和轻重缓急。对于地球上的许多地区来说，化石燃料仍然非常重要，未来数十年都会如此，因为它们是让人们走出烟雾和能源贫困的唯一办法。
More than 1.2 billion people around the world have no access to electricity, according to the International Energy Agency’s World Energy Outlook for 2012. Most of them live in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia. That is nearly four times the number of people who live in the United States. In sub-Saharan Africa, for instance, excluding South Africa, the entire electricity-generating capacity available is only 28 gigawatts — equivalent to Arizona’s — for 860 million people. About 6.5 million people live in Arizona.
国际能源署(International Energy Agency)发布的2012年《世界能源展望》(World Energy Outlook)显示，全世界超过12亿人用不上电。他们大多数生活在撒哈拉以南的非洲和亚洲，这个数字是美国人口总数的将近四倍。例如，在撒哈拉以南的非洲（除南非之外），全部可用的装机容量只有280亿瓦，与亚利桑那州相当，可是那片区域有8.6亿人口，而亚利桑那州只有大约650万人。
Even more people — an estimated three billion — still cook and heat their homes using open fires and leaky stoves, according to the energy agency. More efficient stoves could help. And solar panels could provide LED lights and power to charge cellphones.
国际能源署说，还有更多的人（估计有30亿人）仍然在用明火和有裂缝的炉灶在家中取暖、做饭。效率更高的炉灶能起到帮助，此外还可以用太阳能板为LED灯和手机充电提供电力。
But let’s face it. What those living in energy poverty need are reliable, low-cost fossil fuels, at least until we can make a global transition to a greener energy future. This is not just about powering stoves and refrigerators to improve billions of lives but about powering agriculture and industry that will improve lives.
但是，让我们面对现实吧。这些生活在能源贫困中的人，需要的是可靠、成本低廉的化石燃料，至少在全球向绿色能源的未来过渡之前是这样。这不仅是为了给炉灶和冰箱提供电力，从而改善数十亿人的生活质量，也是为了给农业和工业提供电力，从而提高人们的生活水平。
Over the last 30 years, China moved an estimated 680 million people out of poverty by giving them access to modern energy, mostly powered by coal. Yes, this has resulted in terrible air pollution and a huge increase in greenhouse gas emissions. But it is a trade-off many developing countries would gratefully choose. As China becomes wealthier, it will most likely begin to cut its air pollution problem through regulation, just as the rich world did in the 20th century. But, admittedly, cutting carbon-dioxide emissions will be much harder because these emissions are a byproduct of the cheap energy that makes the world go around.
过去30年里，中国之所以能让6.8亿人摆脱贫困，一个原因是中国为这些人提供了主要来源于煤炭的现代能源。没错，这导致了可怕的空气污染，也导致了温室气体排放大幅增加。但是，即便要付出这些代价，许多发展中国家也愿意这么做。随着中国变得更加富有，它非常有可能通过监管措施来缓解空气污染问题，就像发达国家在20世纪所做的那样。但是需要承认，削减二氧化碳排放会比当时难得多，因为排放出这些气体的廉价能源保障了世界的运转。
Today, 81 percent of the planet’s energy needs are met by fossil fuels, and according to the International Energy Agency, that percentage will be almost as high in 2035 under current policies, when consumption will be much greater. The unfortunate fact is that many people feel uncomfortable facing up to the undeniable need for more cheap and reliable power in the developing world. The Obama administration announced recently, for instance, that it would no longer contribute to the construction of coal-fired power plants financed by the World Bank and other international development banks.
今天，化石燃料满足了地球上81%的能源需求，根据国际能源署预测，在现行的政策之下，这个比例到2035年都会处在同样高的水平，而那时的能源消耗将会大得多。遗憾的是，发展中国家对更多廉价、可靠电力的需求，让很多人感到不安，尽管这样的需求完全是正当的。例如，奥巴马政府最近宣布，将不再为世界银行(World Bank)及其他国际性开发银行资助的煤电站项目提供支持。
This should not have been a surprise. The last time the World Bank agreed to help finance construction of a coal-fired power plant, in South Africa in 2010, the United States abstained from a vote approving the deal. The Obama administration expressed concerns that the project would “produce significant greenhouse gas emissions.” But as South Africa’s finance minister, Pravin Gordhan, explained at the time in The Washington Post, “To sustain the growth rates we need to create jobs, we have no choice but to build new generating capacity — relying on what, for now, remains our most abundant and affordable energy source: coal.”
这并不让人意外。世界银行上一次同意出资建设一个煤电站项目是2010年在南非，当时美国对于是否批准这项协议投了弃权票。奥巴马政府表示，担心这个项目将“造成大量温室气体排放”。但是南非财政部长普拉温·戈尔丹(Pravin Gordhan)当时在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)上解释说，“为了维持经济增长速度，我们需要创造就业，除了新建电站、增加发电装机容量之外，我们别无选择。这就要依赖目前对我们来说最充足、最低廉的能源：煤炭。”
The developed world needs a smarter approach toward cleaner fuels. The United States has been showing the way. Hydraulic fracturing has produced an abundance of inexpensive natural gas, leading to a shift away from coal in electricity production. Because burning natural gas emits half the carbon dioxide of coal, this technology has helped the United States reduce carbon dioxide emissions to the lowest level since the mid-1990s, even as emissions rise globally. We need to export this technology and help other nations exploit it.
为了向更清洁的能源迈进，发达国家需要一个更聪明的办法。美国一直在引领方向。水力压裂带来了大量廉价的天然气，使发电不再依赖煤炭。因为燃烧天然气产生的二氧化碳是煤炭的一半，在全球二氧化碳排放量不断增长的同时，该技术帮助美国将二氧化碳排放减少到了上世纪90年代中期以来的最低水平。我们需要输出这种技术，帮助其他国家开采天然气。
At the same time, wealthy Western nations must step up investments into research and development in green energy technologies to ensure that cleaner energy eventually becomes so cheap that everyone will want it.
与此同时，富有的西方国家必须加强对研发绿色能源技术的投资，从而确保清洁能源最终可以变得非常便宜，人人都想使用。
But until then they should not stand in the way of poorer nations as they turn to coal and other fossil fuels. This approach will get our priorities right. And perhaps then, people will be able to cook in their own homes without slowly killing themselves.
但是在那之前，他们不应该阻拦贫穷国家使用煤炭和其他化石燃料。这才是分清了轻重缓急。也许那样的话，许多人在家中做饭时就不再是慢性自杀了。