Opponents of race-based affirmative action in college admissions urge that colleges use a different tool to encourage diversity: giving a leg up to poor students. But many educators see real limits to how eager colleges are to enroll more poor students, no matter how qualified — and the reason is money.
反对大学在录取中优待少数族裔的人士呼吁，大学应该使用另外一种方式提高多样性：帮助贫寒学子。但是许多教育者看到的却是，大学对于招更多贫寒学子的热情其实很有限，不论这些学生多么优秀。其中的原因就是钱。
“It’s expensive,” said Donald E. Heller, dean of the College of Education at Michigan State University. “You have to go out and identify them, recruit them and get them to apply, and then it’s really expensive once they enroll because they need more financial aid.”
密歇根州立大学教育学院(College of Education at Michigan State University)院长唐纳德·E·海勒(Donald E. Heller)称，“那样费用太高。你得去分辨他们，动员他们，让他们申请，而且一旦他们注册了，那费用就真的很高，因为他们需要更多经济援助。”
The Supreme Court is expected to rule soon in a closely watched case over admissions at the University of Texas at Austin, and the court could outlaw any consideration of race.
人们密切关注德克萨斯州州立大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)的录取案件。预计最高法庭(The Supreme Court)很快会对该案做出判决。而且法庭可能宣判，录取中任何优待少数族裔的做法都不合法。
Opponents of affirmative action welcome that prospect, arguing that race-conscious admissions favor minority applicants who are not disadvantaged, and people on both sides of the issue contend that colleges should do more to achieve socioeconomic diversity. Polls show that while most Americans oppose racial or ethnic preferences in college admissions, they also think colleges should give extra help to the poor.
反对优待少数族裔的人欢迎这种可能性。他们说，在录取过程中考虑种族因素，会偏重于那些并非处于劣势地位的少数族裔申请者。而且该问题的争辩双方都说，大学应该为实现社会经济多样化做出更多努力。民调显示，尽管多数美国人反对大学招生中的种族或民族偏好，他们也认为大学应该给穷人提供更多帮助。
Some states have already banned affirmative action, including California, Florida, Michigan and Washington, and in each of them, the selective public universities stepped up their efforts to recruit disadvantaged students, hoping to enroll more black, Hispanic and American Indian students in the process.
包括加利福尼亚、佛罗里达、密歇根及华盛顿在内的一些州已经禁止了优待少数族裔的做法。而这些州的一些选拔性公立大学做出了更多努力，录取处于劣势地位的学生，希望在过程中多招一些黑人、西语裔及印第安学生。
Opponents of race-conscious admissions say they expect similar moves across the country if the Supreme Court strikes down affirmative action.
反对招生中优待少数族裔做法的人士称，如果最高法院否定了这种做法，他们希望全国都能效法。
But even in those race-blind states, highly selective public colleges vary widely in how hard they work to identify high-achieving, disadvantaged students and prepare them for college, how heavily they weight disadvantage in admissions, and how generous they are with financial aid.
但是，甚至在那些不考虑种族优待的州，对于该尽多大的努力去发现劣势地位的优秀学生并帮助他们入学，在录取过程中劣势地位的权重如何，以及该给予多少财务援助，这些选拔条件苛刻的公立大学也有各自不同的做法。
One crucial factor is outreach programs, starting as early as the middle school years. Studies show that large numbers of talented low-income students are ill-prepared for college, or never apply to selective schools, as though those colleges and the students were invisible to each other.
一个关键的因素是早在中学阶段就开始的施援项目。研究显示，众多有才华的贫寒子弟，对申请大学的准备不足，或者从不申请那些入学困难的大学，仿佛这些大学和这些学生彼此都看不到对方似的。
California voters were the first to outlaw affirmative action, passing Proposition 209 in 1996, and in the following years, the University of California system expanded an already-robust set of programs to identify and nurture promising low-income students.
1996年，加州选民通过209号提案，首先将优待少数族裔视为非法。在随后几年，加州大学(University of California)各分校扩大了已经很强大的一套计划，以确认并培养有希望的贫寒学生。
“Nobody else has had anything comparable,” except, at times, the University of Washington, said Deirdre Bowen, a law professor at the University of Seattle who has written extensively on affirmative action. “But it matters much more at highly selective places like Michigan and Virginia.”
西雅图大学(University of Seattle)法律教授迪尔德莉·鲍恩(Deirdre Bowen)说，“在这一点上，没人能跟加州大学比，”除了华盛顿大学(University of Washington)偶尔还可以。“但是在密西根大学及弗吉尼亚大学等选拔条件苛刻的学校，这个问题更加重要。”鲍恩就优待少数族裔的问题写过许多文章。
Nancy Cantor, chancellor of Syracuse University and a former provost at Michigan, declined to comment on any particular school’s efforts, but said, “There’s no question that some institutions have done a better job than others of building relationships in disadvantaged communities, which takes years.”
雪城大学(Syracuse University)校长、前密歇根州立大学教务长南希·坎托尔(Nancy Cantor)拒绝就任何学校的具体举措作出评论。但是坎托尔说，“在与处于劣势地位的社区建立关系方面，毫无疑问，一些学校比其他学校做得更好，这需要多年努力。”
In a written statement, the University of Michigan cited a long list of programs it operates in disadvantaged communities, but they are relatively small compared with California’s, and many of them have existed only since Michigan voters banned affirmative action in 2006.
在一份书面声明中，密歇根大学列举了该校在处于劣势地位的社区中进行的众多项目。但是与加州大学的项目相比，这些还是相对较少。而且有很多还是在2006年密歇根选民禁止了优待少数族裔的做法之后才出现的。
Legacy admission — the practice of giving preference to the children of alumni or donors — overwhelmingly favors well-off, white students, leaving less room for poor students. Some schools, after dropping affirmative action for ethnic minorities, also dropped legacy preferences, notably Texas A&M and the University of Georgia. But Michigan’s legacy program continues.
对校友及捐赠者子女优先录取的做法，即所谓传承录取(legacy admission)，严重偏向那些富裕的白人学生，贫寒学生几乎没有机会。一些学校在放弃偏好少数族裔的做法之后，也放弃了这种做法。值得一提的是德州农工大学(Texas A&M)及乔治亚大学(University of Georgia)。但是密歇根大学却继续该做法。
Public universities, in particular, caution that differences in low-income enrollment can reflect factors they have little control over, like the relatively low poverty rate in Virginia, or the level of help they get from state governments. States vary widely in direct support for their universities, and in the financial aid they provide; by both measures, Michigan ranks near the bottom, a fact that the university cited in discussing its low number of disadvantaged students.
公立大学提醒人们，在招收低收入学生方面的差异，会反映一些基本不由他们控制的因素，例如弗吉尼亚州的贫困率很低，或者大学能够从州政府得到多少帮助。对于给大学的支持，及提供的财政援助，各州有很大不同。而在这两方面，密歇根州都几乎排在最后。密歇根大学在讨论校内劣势背景学生人数太少时，就提到了这个因素。
State universities affect their socioeconomic mix by deciding how often to admit out-of-state students, who pay much higher tuition, and are less likely to be poor — important considerations in an era of dwindling state support. Elite schools with national reputations could easily fill most of their seats from beyond their borders, but some choose to rely more heavily on that pool than others. Among U.S.-resident undergraduates, out-of-staters account for 11 percent at Berkeley, and 34 percent at Michigan.
州立大学通过控制外州学生的录取量来影响自己的社会经济结构。外州学生交的学费较高，而且较不可能是穷学生。在州政府支持减少的时代，这是一个重要的考虑因素。一些全国著名的精英学校很容易把多数录取名额给外州学生，但是一些大学比其他大学对这种生源的依赖更重。在伯克莱(Berkeley)的美国国籍本科生中，外州学生占到11%，在密歇根大学则是34%。
An elite university’s openness to accepting transfers from other schools also influences its economic diversity, because many transfer applicants start at community colleges or other, less prestigious public colleges, where low-income students are more prevalent.
精英学校接收其他学校的转学生，也会影响到其经济多样性。因为许多转学申请来自社区大学或其他较不著名的公立大学，那些学校的贫寒学生更多。
In California and Texas, public universities are unusually welcoming to transfer students who have earned good grades elsewhere; they do not ask to see high school grades, or SAT or ACT scores, and they actively recruit from community colleges. Transfers accounted for 35 percent of newly enrolled students at Berkeley last year, 25 percent at Texas-Austin, and well under 20 percent at Michigan.
在加利福尼亚及德克萨斯，公立大学对那些在其他地方取得好成绩的学生转入通常是欢迎的，并不要求查看高中成绩，或SAT或ACT成绩。而且，它们积极地从社区大学招生。去年，转学生占到伯克莱新生的35%，占德克萨斯州奥斯汀分校的25%，占密歇根大学的将近20%。