NEW DELHI — In the dense smog that engulfed India’s capital early this month, a baby named Vaishnavi gasped through the night.
新德里——本月初，在印度首都弥漫的浓雾中，一个名叫瓦什纳维(Vaishnavi)的婴儿彻夜难以呼吸。
Inside the concrete room that her father and mother rent for $20 a month, they took turns staying up, laying a hand on her rib cage, feeling it move up and down. Her coughing fits became so violent that she vomited, milk mixed with ropes of sputum. Three times they thought she would not survive until morning.
她的父母在以每月20美元的租金租住的混凝土房间里轮流熬夜，把手放在她的胸口，感受它的起伏。她咳得太厉害，结果吐了起来，可以看到奶里混着痰丝。有三次他们以为她活不到早上。
Twenty miles away, inside an elegant, high-ceilinged house in an elite neighborhood, a 4-year-old boy named Mehtab was also struggling to fill his lungs with air.
20英里外，在一个精英社区一所天花板很高、看起来讲究的房子里，一个名叫梅赫塔布(Mehtab)的4岁男孩也在努力往肺里吸入空气。
His mother, heavily pregnant, sat beside him, administering corticosteroids through a nebulizer mask once an hour. But once an hour wasn’t enough. Mehtab’s father fought waves of panic as they waited for the sun to rise. The boy looked, to him, like a fish suffocating in the air.
他身怀六甲的妈妈坐在身边，每1小时让他用雾化面罩吸入一次皮质类固醇。但1小时1次还不够。在等待太阳出来的这段时间里，梅赫塔布的父亲努力遏制心底的阵阵恐慌。他觉得这孩子像一条在空气中窒息的鱼。
For seven days at the beginning of this month, a thick cloud settled over this metropolis of 20 million people. Held in place by a weather system known as an anticyclone, the pollution was pulled inward and down, trapping the people of this city in concentrations of hazardous micro-particles never before recorded here.
在本月的前七天里，浓雾始终笼罩着这座有2000万人口的大都市。一种名为反气旋的天气系统控制了这里，污染物聚拢下沉，把城里的人困在破纪录的高浓度有害微粒中。
The rich, who are buffered from so many of Delhi’s dangers, bunkered themselves inside, filtering out particles in their own air through expensive, high-tech purifiers. But the nature of air pollution is that it is pervasive. Researchers in China have found that exposure rates for the rich and the poor are virtually indistinguishable.
德里的很多危险，富人都是不用担心的。他们躲在室内，用昂贵的高科技净化器过滤空气中的颗粒物。但空气污染是无所不在的。中国的研究者发现，富人和穷人对空气污染的暴露程度实际上没有太大差别。
As average daytime levels of PM 2.5, the most dangerous particles, passed 700 micrograms per cubic meter, 28 times the concentration the World Health Organization considers safe, authorities in Delhi took the unprecedented step of shutting schools for three days. Protesters marched in surgical masks, carrying posters likening the city to a gas chamber.
白天，危害最大的PM2.5微粒的平均浓度超过每立方米700微克，是世界卫生组织(orld Health Organization)认定的安全浓度的28倍。德里当局采取前所未有的措施，下令学校停课三天。抗议者戴着外科手术口罩游行，标语牌上把这座城市比作一间毒气室。
Eventually, the wind picked up, bringing the city’s pollution level down to its usual, atrocious winter level. But the air quality in north India will remain dangerous for months, as poor people fight the dropping temperature by burning things — leaves, plastic, anything — to stay warm.
最后终于起风了，污染水平降到了通常极差的冬季水平。但是，印度北部的空气质量依然将在数月内保持危险水平，因为那里的穷人为了对抗下降的温度，燃烧各种东西取暖——树叶、塑料等等。
There is a clear body of evidence that death rates, emergency room visits, heart attacks and strokes all rise when particulate concentrations are high. Recent data from the WHO’s Global Burden of Disease project indicates that the number of premature deaths related to air pollution in India has caught up with the number in China, and is now surpassing it.
有明确证据显示，当空气中的颗粒浓度走高时，死亡率、急诊数量、心脏病发作和中风病例都会随之上升。世界卫生组织全球疾病负担研究项目(Global Burden of Disease)的最新数据表明，在印度，与空气污染相关的过早死亡人数已经赶上并且正在超越中国。
The worst-hit will be the very old, who are susceptible to heart disease and stroke, and the very young, whose lungs are so taxed by polluted air that they cannot develop normally. Children are more vulnerable because they are smaller, with shallower breaths and higher heart rates; they breathe more air.
最受影响的将是年龄很大的人——他们容易出现心脏病或中风——以及年龄很小的人，他们的肺部因空气污染严重受损，无法正常发育。孩子们更易受到伤害，因为他们个头更小，呼吸更浅，心率更快，吸入的空气更多。
In the very different homes of Vaishnavi and Mehtab, four parents are waiting to see what the rest of this winter will do to their children.
在瓦什纳维和梅赫塔布迥然不同的家里，四位家长在观望孩子们能否平安度过剩下的冬季。
Vaishnavi’s father, Ravi, who, like many in India do not use a last name, remembers that October day because he woke up and smelled something burning. The rubber casing of an electrical wire is burning, that was his first thought. He splashed his eyes with water to stop the stinging.
瓦什纳维的父亲拉维(Ravi)——和很多印度人一样，是不用姓氏的——还记得10月的一天，他醒来时，闻到一股某种东西烧着的味道。他首先想到的是电线的胶皮烧着了。因为眼睛刺痛，他还往眼上拍了点水。
On the ride into central Delhi, where he sells trinkets on a street corner, he passed columns of smoke: gray-blue wisps from piles of trash, and black pillars from fields where farmers were burning the straw left over from their rice harvests.
在去往德里市中心的路上——他在那里的一个街角卖不值钱的小玩意——他看到了很多烟柱：一堆堆垃圾燃烧散发的蓝灰色烟雾，以及农田里农民收完稻子后燃烧秸秆产生的黑色浓烟。
Scientists had been tracking the progress of a mass of smoke via NASA satellite images, as it rose off farmers’ fields in the nearby states of Punjab and Haryana and floated across the plains toward the city, a two-day drift. In Delhi, it merged with emissions from cars, coal-fired power plants, open-air burning of trash, and dust from construction.
科学家们通过NASA卫星图像追踪一团烟雾的进展，它从附近旁遮普邦和哈里亚纳邦(Haryana)的农田升起，在平原上空飘了两天，来到了德里。在这里，它与汽车、煤电厂和露天垃圾燃烧产生的废气以及施工扬尘混到了一起。
This year, the crop-burning emissions happened to arrive on the eve of Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights, when smoke from millions of celebratory fireworks typically send concentrations of the harmful PM 2.5 particles skyrocketing. Ravi has worked on the same corner since he was a child, and his mother worked there before him. He had never seen a smog so thick that it obscured the Shangri-La Hotel. He knew something was not right: He felt dizzy, as if he had been sniffing glue.
今年，燃烧秸秆正好发生在印度教排灯节(Diwali)前夕——大量节庆烟火产生的烟雾通常会导致有害的PM2.5颗粒物的浓度暴涨。拉维从小就在那个街角做生意，之前他妈妈也曾在那里卖东西。他从未见过这么浓的雾霾，连香格里拉酒店(Shangri-La Hotel)都看不见了。他知道情况不对劲：觉得头晕，跟吸闻了胶水似的。
What worried him more was his only child Vaishnavi, just 18 months old, whose spasmodic nighttime cough no longer quieted with the arrival of morning. He bought her a surgical mask for 40 rupees — about 60 cents — from a merchant at an intersection, but she kept pulling it off. On the way home, he furiously jumped out of the auto-rickshaw and confronted a man burning a pile of trash on the road. “Please don’t burn this, my daughter is crying,” he said.
更让他担心的是自己唯一的孩子瓦什纳维，她只有18个月大，夜间的痉挛性咳嗽并没有随着早晨的到来而平息。他花了40卢比（约合60美分）从十字路口的小贩那里买了一个外科手术口罩，但女儿总是把口罩扯下。在回家的路上，他愤怒地从机动三轮车上跳下来，去跟路边烧垃圾的一个男人吵架。“请不要再烧了，我女儿一直在哭，”他说。
The man responded with a string of especially dirty abuses.
那个男人用一连串极其难听的脏话回应他。
The air that week was utterly still; meteorologists measured both horizontal and vertical movement at nil. Madhurbain Singh Anand, the father of 4-year-old Mehtab, peered into the garden behind their house as the cloud of pollution settled on the city; the garden wall, maybe 20 feet away, was no longer visible. When someone opened a door, a haze filled the room.
那一周，空气完全不流动。据气象学者的测试，空气在水平和垂直方向上的流动均为零。污染云团笼罩这座城市时，四岁男孩梅赫塔布的父亲马德赫班·辛格·阿南德(Madhurbain Singh Anand)向屋后的花园看去，约20英尺（约合6米）外的花园围墙已经看不见了。有人打开房门时，烟雾就会弥漫整个房间。
“It’s like those horror movies,” he said. “You open the door and the thing comes in.”
“就像那些恐怖片一样，”他说，“你打开门，那东西就进来了。”
The two children, 20 miles and at different ends at the economic spectrum, got sick on the same night.
这两个孩子相隔20英里，家里的经济条件有天壤之别，但他们在同一个晚上生病。
Anand brought home an air purifier that cost 29,000 rupees — about $425 — and switched it on, peering at the display to see the concentration of PM 2.5. It was above 700 inside the house. Three days later, Kaur took Mehtab out of Delhi, boarding a train for her parents’ home, a few hours north.
阿南德花2.9万卢比（约合425美元）买了一个空气净化器。带回家后，他马上打开，盯着显示器上的PM2.5浓度。室内的浓度超过700。三天后，考尔(Kaur)带着梅赫塔布离开德里，登上开往她父母家的火车，它在德里北边，有几小时车程。
What shocked her was how quickly his breathing eased. They arrived at night, and he slept so peacefully that she reduced the steroid treatments to every four hours. The next morning, she watched through the window as he played outside.
令她震惊的是，儿子的呼吸问题很快就缓解了。他们到的那天晚上，他睡得很平静，她把类固醇用药减为每4小时一次。第二天早晨，她透过窗户看着他在外面玩耍。
She called her husband, crying, and said it was time to leave Delhi.
她哭着给丈夫打电话，说是时候离开德里了。
Not so for Vaishnavi. This week, she sat on her mother’s lap, sucking on a lollipop, while her aunt cooked on a clay stove inside the room, filling it with fumes.
瓦什纳维的境况大不相同。这一周，她坐在妈妈腿上，舔着一根棒棒糖，她的姨妈（或姑妈）在屋里的土灶台上做饭，屋里弥漫着油烟。
With the tourists back on the street, Vaishnavi’s father, Ravi, was back at his corner, selling trinkets.
街上又有游客后，瓦什纳维的父亲拉维返回那个街角继续卖东西。
He had consulted a roadside doctor about protecting his family from air pollution, and gathered that they were supposed to eat cane sugar. He had also bought a pair of eyeglasses to protect his eyes from the pollution, and removed several bricks from the wall of the small, airless room his family occupies, which he thought would improve air circulation.
他询问一名街头医生要如何保护家人免受空气污染的伤害，得到的回复是，他们应该吃蔗糖。为了保护眼睛，他还买了一副眼镜。他家住的那个小房间不通风，他从墙上取下几块砖，认为那样能加强空气流通。
Vaishnavi had improved with a course of antibiotics, but he felt no certainty that she would survive another week like the one that followed Diwali. Or, for that matter, that anyone would notice if she did not.
瓦什纳维吃了一个疗程抗生素之后，病情有所好转，但要是再赶上排灯节后那一周那种情况，他不知道女儿是否能挺过去，也不知道如果她没能活下来，是否有人会注意到。
“Delhi people have no memory,” he said. “It would be one in a hundred who would ask me how she died.”
“德里人没记性，”他说。“一百个人中只会有一个人问我，她是怎么死的。”