As soon as Linda Phillips and her husband heard about One57, a luxury 90-story skyscraper that is nearing completion on West 57th Street, they raced from the pied-à-terre they rented at the Time Warner Center across Columbus Circle to take a look.
但凡听到西57街(West 57th Street)即将完工的那栋90层的豪华摩天大楼One57有什么新动向，琳达·菲利普斯(Linda Phillips)同她的丈夫就会从他们租住在哥伦布环岛(Columbus Circle)对面的那栋时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)的小窝里，跑去看一看。
The couple, empty-nesters who also own a home in Saddle River, N.J., eventually plunked down $30.4 million for a three-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath apartment, with floor-to-ceiling windows facing onto Central Park. Their lease at the Time Warner Center ends in September, and they may sell their New Jersey home to live full time in the building.
这对在新泽西州桑德河(Saddle River, N.J.)还拥有一套住宅的“空巢”夫妻，终于豪掷3040万美元（约合人民币1.89亿元），买下一套带三间卧室与四间半浴室、有几扇落地窗面对着中央公园的公寓。他们在时代华纳中心的租约，将于9月到期，他们可能还会把新泽西的房子卖掉，以便在这栋大楼里常住。
“With beautiful views and just a block from Bergdorf’s, I think it doesn’t get any better,” said Mrs. Phillips, an interior designer.
“这里不但有美丽的景观，而且与波道夫商店(Bergdorf’s)只隔一个街区，我想这地方再好不过了，”室内设计师菲利普斯说。
Much attention has been lavished on so-called Billionaires’ Row, the stretch of West 57th Street where a spate of spindly towers filled with luxury condominiums is under construction and listing for record-breaking prices. The granddaddy of these new towers is One57 — the first to break ground and now the first to see residents actually living there.
已经有太多的关注挥霍在了西57街这段所谓的“亿万富豪街”了，这里有许多满载豪华共管公寓、细长而高挑的摩天大厦正在兴建之中，而且都标出了破纪录的公寓价格。这些高楼中的鼻祖级建筑，就是这栋One57——既是第一栋破土动工的大楼、也是如今第一栋见证了居民入住的大楼。
Since closings began late last year, 27 owners have been handed the keys to their multimillion-dollar homes. Walk by the building after dark, and it is possible to see the flicker of television screens and lights through a handful of windows. The details in publicly available documents suggest the buyers so far are a diverse bunch. There are the Russian oligarchs represented by large law firms in Midtown and the Chinese buyers whose identities are shielded by limited liability companies based in Shanghai. But there are also plenty of buyers like Leland A. Swanson, an owner of a successful vitamin business in Fargo, N.D., and Terry B. Johnson, the scion of a wealthy family that owns car dealerships in Duluth, Minn.
自去年开始封顶后，已经有27位业主拿到了他们价值百万美元的那些公寓的钥匙。若你天黑后在这栋大楼旁边走走，可能就会看见，有数十所公寓的窗户里都亮着灯光，还折射出电视屏幕闪烁不定的荧光。现已公布的资料中的一些细节表明，目前这批买家是一群形形色色的人。其中既有由中城区的一些法律公司代表的俄罗斯寡头级人物，又有身份受到一些设立于上海的有限责任公司所庇护的中国买家。但还有许多类似利兰·A·斯旺森(Leland A. Swanson)与特里·B·约翰逊(Terry B. Johnson)这样的买家，前者是北达科他州法戈市(Fargo,N.D.)一家成功的维他命企业的老板，而后者是拥有明尼苏达州德卢斯市(Duluth, Minn)汽车经销权的一个富有家族的子嗣。
“One day I have to know all about feng shui, and the next I have to be able to talk to a pig farmer from Iowa,” said Jeannie Woodbrey, a senior sales executive at the Extell Development Company, the developer of One57. “I’m like a chameleon.”
“头一天我得了解所有关于风水的事，第二天我就必须能与一位来自爱荷华州(Iowa)的养猪农户交谈，”One57的开发商、Extell地产开发公司(Extell Development Company)的一位高级销售主管珍妮·伍德伯雷(Jeannie Woodbrey)说，“我就像一条变色龙。”
But while there are buyers who do not often warrant mention in Page Six, there are also clear signs that One57 is home to a rarefied crowd. The building’s head of operations, David M. Spector, cuts a strapping figure in his tailored suit, looking more like a fashion model than a building manager. And the doormen are outfitted with earpieces and tiny microphones attached to their sleeves, like secret service agents.
不过，虽然有那些并不值得常在“第六版”（Page Six，《纽约邮报》的八卦版——译注）上提及的买家，但也有一些清晰的迹象表明，One57是一个稀有人士的家园。这栋楼的运营主管大卫·M·斯佩克特(David M. Spector)，穿着一身剪裁得体的西服，玉树临风的仪态看起来更像一位时尚模特，而非大楼物业经理。而这里的门卫们都佩戴着耳机，袖子上还别着微型麦克风，就像是一些秘密特工。
Then there are the amenities. At the base of the building is the new Park Hyatt New York, which will open to guests on Aug. 12 and is already fully booked through Aug. 19. The condo owners living above the hotel will be able to order room service or ask the concierge for backstage passes to Lincoln Center — for a price, of course. There are also a spa and the hotel pool, where residents swimming laps can listen via underwater speakers to the sound of a playlist curated by Carnegie Hall’s programming team.
而且还有这样一些配套设施。大楼底部是一家即将于8月12日开门迎客的全新纽约柏悦酒店(Park Hyatt New York)，客房现已全部定满，而且一直定到了8月19日。住在酒店楼上那些共管公寓中的房东们，不但可以预订客房服务，还可以找看门人要林肯中心(Lincoln Center)的后台体验通行证——当然了，有偿的。此外，这里还有一处spa，以及这座酒店的游泳池，池中的那些住户泳道，可以通过水下音箱收听由卡内基音乐厅(Carnegie Hall)设计小组编排的一组曲目。
While there are now residents living at One57, they are still just “a trickle,” said Mr. Spector, who is a senior vice president at Extell Management Services. Many owners are summering outside the city and are using these slow months to complete their designs and further customize their homes, he said. “I expect more people to move in and for things to pick up after Labor Day.”
虽然One57大楼现已有部分居民入住，但他们还只是“涓涓细流”，斯佩克特说，他是Extell物业管理服务公司(Extell Management Services)的一位高级副总裁。许多业主正在市外避暑，同时利用这几月的漫漫长日来完成他们的室内装修，让他们的家更加符合自己的喜好，他说，“我期待着劳动节(Labor Day)后有更多人搬进来，情况有所进展。”
Mrs. Phillips and her husband, an ophthalmologist, for example, are installing additional bedroom closets, adding some mirrored accent walls and new hardware for the doors, as well as raising the baseboard heights — “just some aesthetic changes that I feel are important,” said Mrs. Phillips, who will move in once the work is complete in the next several months.
例如，菲利普斯和她那位当眼科大夫的丈夫，又在卧室里装了几个衣橱，还增加了几处镜面高光墙，给房门上新增了五金件，还升高了踢脚线的高度——“只是在美观上做了一些我感觉很重要的变动，”菲利普斯说，一旦接下来几个月装修工作完成，她就会立刻搬进去。
Nikki Field, a broker at Sotheby’s International Realty who has represented several buyers at One57, said, “The building finishes are lovely, so my clients are not doing a great deal of construction work, only small things. They also need to fully furnish the homes — it isn’t like they will move furniture from other locations.”
代表了几位One57大楼买家的苏富比国际地产公司(Sotheby’s International Realty )经纪人尼基·菲尔德(Nikki Field)说，“这栋大楼装修得很精美，所以我的那些客户不会做太多施工，只有一些小变动而已。他们还得为新家配齐全部家具——他们似乎不会从其它地方把家具搬过来。”
Ms. Field said that just two of her clients will live at the building full time; the rest plan to use their apartments only part time. She noted that Extell Development may create some competition for itself when it opens a second new luxury tower just a block west.
菲尔德说，她只有两位客户会在这栋大楼里常住；其他业主都只打算小住一段时间。她还提到，等Extell地产开发公司在西边仅隔一个街区的第二栋新豪华大厦落成后，可能会造成内部竞争。
“I do have a few, particularly those who purchased in the $50 million range, that are such fans of the developer they are considering his next building,” said Ms. Field, referring to 225 West 57th Street, a condominium with at least 100 stories that will feature New York City’s first full-line Nordstrom department store. That building is not set to open until 2018, “so they are going to love this building and enjoy it,” she said, “but when there is a newer, shinier, prettier gal, they may decide to cash out and go for the next one.”
“我确实有一些这样的客户，尤其是购买力在5000万美元（约合人民币3.1亿元）区间的，他们是这家公司的忠实粉丝，以至于会考虑继续购置该公司接下来的开发项目，”菲尔德说，她指的是西57街225号，那栋共管公寓楼至少有100层，将以纽约市第一家货物品种齐全的诺德斯特姆百货公司(Nordstrom department store)为特色，直到2018年才会开盘，“所以，他们还是会爱上这座大楼，并享受这里的生活，”她说，“但等到有了更新、更美、更光鲜的‘楼花’出来后，他们可能就会毅然掏出现金来追求这个后来者了。”
While some buyers said they intended to live in the building, One57 has attracted its fair share of investors, and a handful of units are already back on the market with higher price tags. In some cases, the most secretive of the investors are upset by the attention the building has garnered.
虽然有些买家说，他们买房是为在这栋大楼里生活，但One57还是吸引了相当多的投资客；而且，已经有一批公寓以更高的标价回到了地产市场。在有些情况下，个别格外低调的投资客，为这栋楼引起了如此多的关注而感到忐忑不安。
“I am flipping it as soon as I close,” said one buyer who spoke on condition of anonymity. “I bought it in an L.L.C. with partners, and honestly, if I had known that there would be this much attention on the building, and that my name would get out, I wouldn’t have done it.”
“等交易一完成，我就会转手，”一位以匿名为交谈条件的买家说，“我和几位伙伴以有限责任公司的名义购置了这套公寓，说实话，如果早知道这栋楼会引起如此多的关注，而且我的名字会泄漏出去，我就不会这样做了。”
Ms. Field cautions her buyers not to re-list their apartments until the building is fully completed. “I am advising my clients that the return will be stronger if they wait until the hotel is up and running and the building is finished,” she said, “so they can take full advantage of the value and the lifestyle.”
菲尔德提醒她的买家们，最好等到这栋楼彻底完工后，再把他们的公寓重新挂牌出售。“我一直建议我的那些客户，若他们等酒店建好并开始运营了，而且这栋大楼也完工了，那回报会高得多，”她说，“那样，他们就能充分利用上这里的价值和这种生活方式。”
The building still has about 25 percent of its units to sell, and the marketing to foreign buyers continues apace. On a recent weekday, for example, Stephen Kotler, the chief operating officer at Douglas Elliman Real Estate, was meeting Pieter van Naeltwijck, a broker based in Monte Carlo, and Natalia Kashirina, who represents Russian buyers from her base in London, in the lobby of One57 for a tour.
这栋大楼仍有大约25%的公寓在售，而面向国外买家的市场营销活动也正在保持快速进行的势头。例如在上个工作日，道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)的首席运营官斯蒂文·科特勒(Stephen Kotler)，与一位蒙特卡罗(Monte Carlo)的经纪人皮耶特·范·纳尔特维克(Pieter Van Naeltwijck)，还有代表她伦敦公司那些俄国买家的纳塔莉亚·克什里娜(Natalia Kashirina)一起在One57的大厅里见了面，并就地参观了一番。