SAN VITALIANO, Italy — If there is one label that Antonio Falcone, a doctor turned civic leader, does not want to be known by, it is “the anti-pizza mayor.”
意大利圣维塔利亚诺——如果说有什么标签是之前行医、现为市政领导人的安东尼奥·法尔科内(Antonio Falcone)不想被贴上的，那就是“敌视披萨的市长”。
Yet that is how notoriety caught up with the mayor of this small town in the Neapolitan hinterland in late December when, in an effort to lower air pollution, Mr. Falcone issued an ordinance banning the use of wood-fired stoves not equipped with filters that reduce toxic air pollutants.
但去年12月底，这座位于那不勒斯腹地的小城镇的市长就被扣上了如此一个恶名。为了减少大气污染，他当时发布了一项法令，禁止使用没有配备过滤装置的燃烧木材的炉子，以减少有毒气体污染。
The ban affects family homes with chimneys as well as businesses like bakeries, restaurants and — most controversially — wood-burning pizzerias, the gastronomic boast of an area known as the birthplace of one of Italy’s most renowned culinary exports. Outrage was guaranteed.
这项禁令既影响到了有烟囱的家庭，也影响了面包店、餐厅，以及最具争议性的果木烤披萨店等店家。圣维塔利亚诺被认为是意大利最为人知的食物披萨的诞生地，而果木烤披萨是这里引以为豪的地方美食。所以此项禁令不出意料地引起了轩然大波。
“We’ve even been compared to China,” complained Pasquale Tufano of Ristorante La Vigna, piqued that the town’s half-dozen pizzerias had been singled out and equated with a country whose capital, Beijing, announced its first-ever toxic smog red alert last month.
“我们竟然被拿来和中国相比，”葡萄园(La Vigna)餐厅的帕斯夸莱·图法诺(Pasquale Tufano)抱怨。他感到很恼火，因为这座小城里的五六家披萨店被比作了中国。该国首都北京上个月因有毒雾霾首次发出了红色预警。
The mayor here was attacked on social media. There were public protests and calls for his resignation.
市民在社交媒体上对市长进行抨击，还举行公开抗议活动，并要求他辞职。
“I became the anti-pizza mayor,” rued Mr. Falcone, adding that he only acted in San Vitaliano’s best interests. “I am responsible for the health of the citizens of this town. We had to start somewhere.”
“我成了敌视披萨的市长，”法尔科内懊恼地说道。他还说，自己这么做只是为了圣维塔利亚诺的最佳利益。“我要为这座城市里居民的健康负责，我们总要先从某个地方着手。”
In fact, Mr. Falcone was one of dozens of Italian mayors who adopted emergency measures last month after a prolonged dry spell repeatedly pushed air pollutants beyond legal limits.
实际上，由于长期的干燥天气导致空气污染物超出了法律限制，上个月意大利有几十位市长采取了紧急措施，法尔科内只是其中一员。
Rome, which has been trying to reduce car emissions to help clean the air, restricted driving to days based on the odd or even numbers at the end of license plates. Milan banned all traffic for three consecutive days, to little effect. Milan and other cities even banned fireworks on New Year’s Eve.
为了试图减少汽车排放，从而帮助净化空气，罗马根据车牌号尾号实行了单双号限行。米兰连续三天禁止交通，但几乎没有收效。米兰和其他城市还禁止了新年夜的烟花燃放活动。
Italy is one of the worst countries in Europe for air quality. The country has a heavily industrialized north, poorly maintained private furnaces, growing traffic congestion, widespread use of diesel fuel and years of neglectful spending on infrastructure for freight trains and public transportation, environmentalists say. Even the geography hurts Italy, with its mountains and valleys preventing much-needed air circulation.
意大利是欧洲空气质量最差的国家之一。该国北部高度工业化，私家建设的烟囱管理不善，交通拥堵日益加剧，柴油使用十分普遍，货运列车和公共交通方面的基础设施也常年受到财政投入匮乏的困扰。就连地理环境也拖了意大利的后腿，其山峦峡谷阻碍了空气的流通。
A 2015 government study found that some 30,000 Italians died as a result of air pollution each year.
2015年政府的一项研究发现，每年约有3万名意大利人因空气污染去世。
As pollution levels rose this winter, and municipalities imposed bans on sources of pollution, the nation’s environment minister held an emergency summit meeting in Rome with representatives of Italy’s regions and municipalities.
随着这个冬天污染水平加剧，各城市对于污染源采取了限制，意大利环境部长在罗马与各大区和城市的代表举行了紧急峰会。
The group proposed lowering thermostats in homes and offices, reducing city speed limits, scrapping older cars, encouraging public transportation and limiting the use of chimneys. But none of the measures were legally binding, and short of a nationally integrated approach to fighting pollution — Italy currently lacks one — the responsibility falls to mayors like Mr. Falcone.
这些官员提议，降低居民家中和办公室里恒温器的温度，减少限速措施，报废旧车，鼓励公共交通，限制烟囱的使用。但是这些措施都没有法律约束力，而且如果治理污染缺乏全国统一的措施——意大利如今就没有——这些责任就落在了像法尔科内这样的市长身上。
The local ordinance gives pizzerias and other businesses until Feb. 29 to equip their ovens with appropriate filters. Starting March 1, inspectors will begin making their rounds.
当地的法令规定，披萨店和其他商号要在2月29日之前，将各自的炉灶装上适当的过滤装置。从3月1日开始，检查员就会开始巡回检查。
“We’re giving them time to prepare themselves. It’s a question of civility,” said Tulliano Carpino, who heads the town’s technical department.
“我们给他们时间来自己准备，这是有礼有节的做法，”该市技术部门负责人图利亚诺·卡尔比诺(Tulliano Carpino)说。
Let the inspectors come, said a defiant Giovanni Arricchiello, the owner of Il Cavallino restaurant, which is along the long strip mall along one edge of San Vitaliano.
小马餐厅(Il Cavallino)的店主乔万尼·阿里切洛(Giovanni Arricchiello)颇为不屑地说，尽管让检查员过来好了。小马餐厅位于圣维塔利亚诺边缘一个狭长购物区。
Like other local pizza makers, Mr. Arricchiello already has pollution filters on his ovens, so the ordinance should not affect them.
就像当地其他披萨制造商一样，阿里切洛也已经在烤炉上安装了污染物过滤装置，所以法令应该不影响他们。
“You can’t get a restaurant license without them,” he said of the filters, producing a folder containing a photo of his high-tech one, as well as the restaurant’s annual maintenance records. The vast majority of San Vitaliano’s pizzerias say they have the proper filters in place.
他谈到过滤器时说，“如果不装，就拿不到餐馆执照。”他边说边拿出了一个文件夹，里面放着一张很高科技的过滤器的照片，以及餐馆的年度维护记录。圣维塔利亚诺的大部分披萨店表示，他们安装了适当的过滤器。
Pizza ovens aside, Mr. Falcone said the main causes of San Vitaliano’s air pollution remained a mystery. Traffic can be intense, but the town, about 15 miles northeast of Naples, is quite small, he said, and there are no major industries.
除了披萨炉之外，法尔科内表示，圣维塔利亚诺空气污染的主要原因还是个谜。尽管交通负担很重，但他说这座位于那不勒斯东北15英里外的城市规模很小，而且并没有大型工业。
The town, however, abuts a highway cloverleaf, and is part of the densely populated Naples area, in a region known for illegal incineration of toxic waste by organized crime.
然而这座城市临近一座高速公路立交桥，属于人口密集的那不勒斯地区，而这个区域以犯罪团伙非法焚烧有毒废物而闻名。
Vincenzo Russo, the council member responsible for the environment, proposed that cheap, chemically treated pellets used in stoves and boilers might be a culprit.
负责环境事务的市议员文森佐·鲁索(Vincenzo Russo)提出，元凶可能是炉灶和锅炉里使用的经过化学处理的廉价煤球。
San Vitaliano’s leaders, he said, have also begun a study with the nearby University of Naples Federico II to determine — among other possible causes — what impact a waste-to-energy plant in Acerra, a town less than 12 miles away, might be having on its neighbor.
他说，圣维塔利亚诺的政府领导已经开始与附近的那不勒斯菲里德里克第二大学(University of Naples Federico II)合作开展研究，确定阿瑟拉的一座垃圾发电站及其他可能的因素，对邻近城市都起到了怎样的影响。阿瑟拉距离圣维塔利亚诺12英里。
“But the message that has gotten through is that the mayor is anti-pizza,” Mr. Russo said.
“可是民间传开的消息却是，市长敌视披萨，”鲁索说。
When Mr. Falcone called for a meeting with representatives from neighboring cities to discuss the pollution issue, only two midlevel administrators showed up, he said.
他说，法尔科内召集邻近城市的代表举行会议，讨论污染问题时，只有两名中层行政人员出席了。
Locals say they have been wrongly singled out and are being punished because San Vitaliano is the only town in the area that has an air quality monitor, which became operational about a year ago.
当地居民表示，他们错误地成为了打击目标并受到惩罚，是因为圣维塔利亚诺是该地区唯一装有空气质量监测器的城市。监测器是去年开始运转的。
“Pollution is a real problem for all the area, but we’ve got the only monitor, so we got caught in the crossfire,” said Mr. Tufano, whose pizzeria, La Vigna, is equipped with filters.
“污染在整个地区都是一个真实的问题，但唯一的监测器在我们这里，所以枪口对准了我们，”图法诺说。他的葡萄园披萨店里安装了过滤器。