Bit by bit over the past few decades, scientists have been building a new understanding of the ways that air pollution threatens human health. Much of their attention has been focused on lung diseases, including cancers. With good reason, it turns out: just last month, the World Health Organization declared air pollution to be one of the planet’s most dangerous environmental carcinogens.
在过去的几十年里，科学家们一点一滴地积累起关于空气污染如何威胁人类健康的新认识。他们的注意力大多集中在肺部疾病，包括癌症上面。这无可厚非：就在上个月，世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)宣布空气污染物是地球上最危险的环境致癌物质之一。
But cardiovascular disease is much more common than cancer. Sadly, there is now a pile of evidence, sometimes startling, that air pollution also plays a role in heart attacks and strokes. The new studies suggest that air pollution not only worsens cardiovascular disease — but can also cause it.
然而，心血管疾病远比癌症要常见得多。不幸的是，目前已经有大堆的证据表明，空气污染在心肌梗死和脑卒中等疾病中也发挥了一定作用，这颇令人吃惊。新的研究显示，空气污染不仅可加重心血管疾病——实际上，它们还可能是这些疾病的病因。
“We’ve known for about 20 years that we see increased risk of heart attack and stroke in association with increased levels of air pollution,” said Sara Adar, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan. The most recent data show that “air pollution does more than just make you worse.”
“早在约 20 年前，我们就已经注意到，心肌梗死和脑卒中风险的升高与空气污染水平的增加相关，”密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的流行病学教授萨拉·阿达尔(Sara Adar)说。而最近的数据显示，“空气污染的影响绝不仅限于加重病情。”
Scientists like Dr. Adar have been studying fine particulates adrift in the cloud of unfriendly gases shrouding many of our communities. Measuring 2.5 micrometers (or microns) or less, these bits of material are so tiny that it would take about 30 of them to equal the diameter of a human hair. A series of studies has found that they penetrate deep into the lungs, embedding in tissue and setting off a cascade of inflammatory effects. Researchers believe the inflammation also spreads into the circulatory system, altering the way blood vessels function.
阿达尔博士等科学家一直在研究笼罩在诸多社区之上的雾霾中漂浮的细颗粒物。这些颗粒物的大小不超过2.5微米，小到只有人类头发丝直径的1/30。一系列的研究发现，它们的侵袭可深入肺部，并可嵌入组织之中，引起级联的炎症效应。研究人员认为，这些炎症也会蔓延到循环系统，改变血管的功能。
Although air pollution is a long-recognized and regulated health hazard, only gradually have researchers come to appreciate the threat of particulates. In 1989, C. Arden Pope III, a professor of economics at Brigham Young University, published a paper based on the temporary shutdown of a nearby steel mill, showing a linear relationship between emissions and hospitalizations. He traced the illnesses to particulates in the air.
作为公认的健康危害，空气污染已经受到法规的控制，但研究人员直到最近才逐渐开始认识到颗粒物带来的威胁。1989年，杨百翰大学(Brigham Young University)的经济学教授C·阿登·波普三世(C. Arden Pope III)发表了一篇关于钢厂临时关闭的文章，指出在钢厂排放量与住院之间呈线性相关。经过对这些疾病追根溯源，他的目光集中在空气中的微粒物上。
Dr. Pope originally had focused on air pollution’s effects on the lungs, but over the years he kept turning up increases in cardiovascular disease. “By 2002, I’d given up on the idea that this was just some anomaly in the study design,” he recalled in an interview. Eventually he identified the culprit: fine particles, far smaller than those tracked in his original steel mill study. “The deeper you dive into the data, the more clearly you see the effect on cardiovascular disease,” Dr. Pope said.
起初，波普博士着重研究了空气污染对肺部的影响，但这些年来心血管疾病的日益增加不断引起他的注意。“到了2002年，我终于不再继续认为这只是在研究设计中出现的异常，”在接受采访时，他回忆道。最后，他终于识别出罪魁祸首原来是细颗粒物——比他之前在钢厂研究中追踪到的颗粒物要小得多。“你越深入地挖掘数据，就越能清楚地看到它对心血管疾病的影响，”波普博士说。
Dr. Adar and her colleagues have been tracking the damage at the microscopic level in the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis and Air Pollution (MESA Air), which has followed more than 5,000 people in six states for more than a decade. It is funded primarily by the National Institutes of Health and the Environmental Protection Agency.
阿达尔博士和她的同事们也一直在跟踪微观层面的损害。该研究名为动脉粥样硬化和空气污染多种族研究(MESA Air)，主要由美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)和美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)资助，目前已对六个州的超过5000名参与者进行了十年以上的随访。
Researchers working with the project have contributed to an increasingly precise understanding of risks associated with fine particles that float in polluted air. Dr. Adar and her colleagues have shown, for instance, that increased exposure to pollutants, after other factors are factored out, can be directly linked to narrowing of blood vessels and to a steady thickening of artery walls.
参与该项目的研究人员就与空气污染中漂浮的细颗粒物相关的风险提供了日益精准的见解。例如，阿达尔博士和她的同事们证明，在排除了其他因素之后，污染物暴露的增加与血管狭窄和动脉壁的稳步增厚直接相关。
Their most recent study, published this year in PLoS Medicine, described a near-linear relationship: as air pollution levels dropped, the thickening slowed. When exposure to air pollutants increased, signs of damage increased.
他们的最新研究发表于今年的《公共科学图书馆：医学》(PLoS Medicine)杂志上。该研究描述了一个近线性关系：随着空气污染水平的下降，血管壁的增厚也有所减缓。当对空气污染物的接触增多时，血管损伤的指征也随之增加。
The MESA Air study also has reinforced a sense that vehicle exhaust may be unusually harmful. Researchers in the United States and many other countries have linked traffic pollution to heart rate variability in a range of people – from vehicle drivers to bicyclists traveling congested roadways. A study published this year in Environmental Health found evidence of “acute changes” in heartbeats in people, aged 22 to 56, driving in Mexico City traffic. Another recent study, of bicyclists in Ottawa, found that their heart rhythms appeared to be altered for hours after they had returned home in ways unrelated to exertion.
MESA Air研究也强调，汽车尾气可能非常有害。美国和其他许多国家的研究人员已发现，在范围广泛的各种人群（从车辆驾驶员到交通拥挤的道路上的骑自行车者）中，交通污染与心率变异性之间均存在关联。今年在《环境卫生》(Environmental Health)杂志上发表的一项研究指出，有证据表明，在墨西哥城年龄在22至56岁的驾驶员中，心率存在“急性改变“。最近的另一项研究也发现，渥太华的骑自行车者在回到家后，心脏节律的变化仍可持续数小时，且这与劳累无关。
“There’s increasing evidence that there’s something about traffic-related pollution in particular,” said Dr. Joel D. Kaufman, an epidemiologist at the University of Washington in Seattle.
“越来越多的证据表明，存在某种特殊的交通相关污染物，”华盛顿大学（University of Washington，位于美国西雅图）的流行病学家乔尔·D·考夫曼(Joel D. Kaufman)博士说。
Vehicle emissions are thought to include an unusually high proportion of very small, or ultrafine, particles, allowing them to penetrate deeper into the body. Researchers say there is also some evidence that the shape of these particles gives them an unusually high surface area, which permits other contaminants to stick onto them. As a result, they may actually concentrate toxic compounds in polluted air.
人们通常认为，汽车尾气中含有很高比例的超细颗粒物，它们体积极小，可以侵入体内更深的位置。研究人员指出，也有证据表明，这些颗粒的形状赋予了它们非常大的表面积，从而使其他污染物很容易粘附其上。因此，它们实际上成为了污染空气中有毒化合物的收集器。
“The evidence is pretty overwhelming that fine particles do harm,” said Dr. Russell V. Luepker, a cardiologist and epidemiologist at the University of Minnesota School of Public Health, a co-author of two scientific reports on air pollution for the American Heart Association.
“这些证据足以说明细颗粒物的危害，”明尼苏达大学公共卫生学院(University of Minnesota School of Public Health)的心脏病专家和流行病学家、美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)两份关于空气污染的科学报告的共同作者罗素·V·鲁普科尔(Russell V. Luepker)博士说。
But, he added, health choices — such as poor diet, smoking and lack of exercise — and conditions such as hypertension still pose greater risks. “If we got rid of air pollution, heart disease would not disappear,” Dr. Luepker said.
但是，他补充道，健康方面的选择——如不良饮食、吸烟和缺乏运动——以及高血压等疾病带来的风险依然更大。“即使我们摆脱了空气污染，心脏病也不会因此消失，”鲁普科尔博士说。
Researchers studying the health effects of air pollution are starting to look at ways that their findings can be used for greater protection. Dr. Adar and her colleagues are looking for ways to better identify and control the most dangerous vehicle emissions, while other scientists are pondering everything from improved air purifiers to particle-absorbing barriers. But one of the most effective responses is environmental regulation.
在研究空气污染物的健康影响的同时，研究人员们也开始探索如何令他们的研究结果为人们提供更大的保护。阿达尔博士和她的同事们正积极寻找更好的方式，以识别和控制最危险的汽车尾气排放，而其他的科学家则在琢磨从改进空气净化器到设置可吸收颗粒物的屏障等等各种途径。然而，环境监管仍然是最有效的应对方式之一。
Several decades of clean air regulations in the United States have had lifesaving effects. A study published this year in the Journal of the American Medical Association estimated that there has been a 35 percent drop in deaths and disabilities related to air pollution, including cardiovascular diseases, in the United States since 1990.
在美国，数十年来空气清洁法规已经拯救了无数的生命。今年发表在《美国医学协会杂志》(Journal of the American Medical Association)上的一项研究估计，自1990年以来，美国与空气污染有关的死亡和残疾（包括心血管疾病）减少了35%。
“Our public policy efforts to reduce air pollution are one of the most effective medical interventions in the last 20 to 30 years,” Dr. Pope said.
“在过去的20到30年中，致力于减少空气污染的公共政策是我们最有效的医疗干预之一，”波普博士说。