In the aftermath of the shooting of Malaysia Airlines flight 17 last week and the rocket strike near Ben-Gurion International Airport in Tel Aviv this week, people planning to fly to the Middle East or on a route crossing Eastern Europe have been left wondering whether or not they could — or should — continue with their travel plans.
上周马航MH17航班被击落（即7月17日，本文最初发表于7月25日——译注），本周特拉维夫的本古里安国际机场附近遭到火箭弹袭击。在这种情况下，计划飞往中东或途经东欧的人开始考虑他们能否——或者是否应该——继续自己的旅行计划。
Below, we offer an F.A.Q. with some updates on both incidents and advice on how to find out if you’re flying friendly skies. If you’ve got a question that we didn’t answer, leave it in comments below and we may include it in a later post.
在下面的问答中，我们介绍了这两个事件的最新情况，并就如何弄清你飞过的是否都是友好领空提供了一些建议。如果你有新的问题，请写在下面的评论中，我们可能会在以后的文章中讨论。
Q. Can I fly into Tel Aviv yet?
问：我还能飞往特拉维夫吗？
A. Depends on the airline. The F.A.A. lifted its ban on flights to Ben-Gurion International Airport late Wednesday night, less than 48 hours after a rocket fired from the Gaza strip landed about a mile from the airport. Delta, United and US Airways had all resumed service to the airport by Thursday night.
答：这取决于你选择的航空公司。美国联邦航空局周三深夜取消了对本古里安国际机场的禁飞令——不到48小时之前，从加沙地带发射的一枚火箭炮落到了离该机场约一英里远的地方。周四晚上，达美航空(Delta)、美国联合航空(United)和全美航空公司(US Airways)都已恢复前往该机场的航班服务。
Air France and Lufthansa, the German airline  canceled flights there, as recommended in a statement from the European Aviation Safety Agency on Thursday, but will resume them. Air France flights will operate flights to Tel Aviv on Friday night, and Lufthansa said it would begin operating them in stages on Saturday.
法国航空公司(Air France)、德国汉莎航空公司(Lufthansa)按照欧洲航空安全局周四的一项声明的建议，取消了前往那里的航班，但是他们会恢复航班服务的。法航将在周五晚上安排前往特拉维夫的航班，汉莎将从周六起开始安排航班。
The conflict between Israel and Hamas has also inspired Costa Cruises, the Italian cruise line, to cancel calls in Ashdod and Haifa, Israel, during two of its September cruises, the company said in a press release on Wednesday.
意大利的歌诗达邮轮公司(Costa Cruises)在周三的一篇新闻稿中说，由于以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)之间的冲突，它九月份的两次航行将不在以色列的阿什杜德港和海法港停留。
“The company is in constant contact with local and international authorities to ensure the safety of its operations. Costa will continue to carefully monitor the situation in Israel and nearby areas,” the release said.
“该公司将与当地政府和国际权威机构保持密切联系，以确保运营安全。歌诗达将继续密切关注以色列及其周边地区的情况，”那篇新闻稿中说。
A warning posted on the United States State Department’s Web site Monday recommended that American citizens refrain from any nonessential travel to Israel and the West Bank, because of the escalating conflict.
美国国务院的网站周一发布了一个警告，建议美国公民不要进行前往以色列和约旦河西岸的不必要的旅行，因为那里的冲突在升级。
Q. What about the downing of the Malaysia Airlines plane? Will my flight be affected?
问：那马航飞机被击落事件呢？我的航班会受影响吗？
A. The frequency of daily flights, both on Malaysia and other airlines, has not been affected, though Malaysia will now entirely avoid Ukrainian airspace, flying farther south over Turkey instead, the company said in a statement. On Sunday, however, the airline fell under scrutiny when flightradar24.com, a website that shows live air traffic around the world, spotted one of Malaysia’s aircraft over Syria, a region considered by some to be as volatile and dangerous as the Ukraine and Russian border. (“As per the notice to airmen (NOTAM) issued by the Syrian Civil Aviation Authority, the Syrian airspace was not subject to restrictions,” Malaysia Airlines said in a statement.)
答：马航和其他航空公司的每日一班的航线的频次没有受到影响，不过马航在一份声明中说它现在将完全避免经过乌克兰领空，而是绕行往南很多的土耳其领空。不过，周日该航空公司被严密监视，因为展示全球实时空中交通状况的网站flightradar24.com发现马航的一架飞机经过了叙利亚领空，有些人认为那个地区和乌克兰和俄罗斯边境一样动荡、危险（“根据叙利亚民航局发给飞行员的通知[NOTAM]，叙利亚领空不受限制，”马航在一份声明中说。） 
Q. I booked through a code share partner of Malaysia Airlines. Will my flight also be rerouted?
问：我通过马航的一个代码共享合作伙伴订了机票。我的航班也会改变航线吗？
A. OneWorld Alliance, of which Malaysia Airlines is a member, confirmed in a statement that all its member airlines had agreed to reroute planes away from eastern Ukraine. Those members include Malaysia’s code share partners, American Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways, Finnair, Japan Airlines, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian and Sri Lankan Airlines.
答：马航是寰宇一家(OneWorld Alliance)的成员，该联盟在一份声明中确认它所有的成员都同意让飞机绕开乌克兰东部。它的成员还包括马航的代码共享合作伙伴，美国航空公司、国泰航空(Cathay Pacific Airways)、芬兰航空公司(Finnair)、日本航空公司(Japan Airlines)、卡塔尔航空公司(Qatar Airways)、皇家约旦航空公司(Royal Jordanian)和斯里兰卡航空公司(Sri Lankan Airlines)。
Other code share partners including KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Jet Airways have also said they would avoid eastern Ukraine indefinitely; and on July 22, the Federal Aviation Administration issued a statement prohibiting United States operators from flying within the Simferopol and Dnepropetrovsk regions.
其他代码共享合作伙伴——包括荷兰皇家航空公司(KLM Royal Dutch Airlines)和捷特航空公司(Jet Airways)——也说他们一定会绕开乌克兰东部；7月22日，美国联邦航空局发布了一项声明，禁止美国的航空公司在辛菲罗波尔和第聂伯罗彼得罗夫斯克地区的上空飞行。
Q. Can I get access to my flight plan before departure?
问：我能在出发前了解我的航班飞行计划吗？.
A. While domestic flight plans for the United States are relatively easy to find online, those who want to know the exact trajectory of an international flight may have some trouble, Fredrik Lindhal, flightradar24.com‘s chief executive said on the telephone. Contacting the airline is the most logical solution as international plans are not typically published, he said. But tracking the flight on a site like his own in the days prior to your departure can also help reveal any changes being made to the flight’s regular pattern.
答：flightradar24.com网站的首席执行官弗雷德里克·林德哈尔(Fredrik Lindhal)在电话采访中说，虽然在网上寻找美国国内的航班飞行计划还相对容易，但是想得知国际航班的确切航线可能有些困难。他说，与航空公司联系是最合理的解决方法，因为国际航班的飞机计划一般是不公布的。但是出发前几天在一些网站上——比如他的网站——追踪那个航班也有助于了解与该航班的常规路线不一样的所有变化。
FlightAware.com, another live flight tracking website, can offer the same, but tracking flights in this way is a lot like advertising, Mr. Lindhal said. “They always have to give that ‘past performance will not guarantee future returns’ disclaimer. The site can be an indicator, but at the end of the day its always up to the air traffic control and the pilot,” he said.
FlightAware.com是另一个实时航班追踪网站，它能提供同样的信息，但是林德哈尔说用这种方式追踪航班很像做广告。“他们总会发布那项免责声明：‘过去的表现并不能保证未来的结果’。这个网站可能有一定的指示作用，但是航线最终是由空中交通管制和飞行员决定的，”他说。
“Flight bag” digital applications, as Jeff Price, an aviation management and security consultant in Denver called them, may also be helpful. ForeFlight, an aviation application for pilots, and Jeppesen’s Mobile FliteDeck Pro, a similar app, are both available with a subscription, which costs about $100 a year, Mr. Price said.
“飞行包”(Flight bag)数字应用程序——丹佛市的航空管理和安全顾问杰夫·普赖斯(Jeff Price)这样称呼他们——可能也有帮助。普赖斯说，你可以付费使用给飞行员的程序ForeFlight以及杰普森公司(Jeppesen)的一个类似的程序——移动飞行专家(FliteDeck Pro)，费用是每年约100美元。
But temporary reroute plans due to a situation like that in Ukraine would be provided directly to commercial air carrier flight operations centers by the air traffic controlling entity, he said. “It might just be a situation where the air traffic control reroutes the traffic on their own temporarily, through their flight clearances and radio transmissions.”
不过他说，因为乌克兰这种情况而实施的临时绕行计划将由空中交通管制部门直接提交给商业航空公司的航班运营中心。“情况可能是空中交通管制部门通过飞行许可和无线电通讯临时独自更改路线。”