FRANKFURT — Lufthansa was supposed to be celebrating the 60th anniversary of its postwar rebirth this month.
法兰克福——汉莎航空(Lufthansa)本应在本月庆祝公司战后重生60周年。
Instead, on Wednesday, the day of that anniversary, the German airline faced perhaps the worst crisis in its history after admitting that it was aware the co-pilot who deliberately crashed one of its planes in the French Alps last week, killing himself and the other 149 people on board, had a history of severe depression.
然而，在纪念日于周三到来时，这家德国航空公司面临着或许是其历史上最严重的危机，这之前，公司已承认它过去知道上周故意将飞机坠入法国阿尔卑斯山的那名副驾驶有严重抑郁症史的情况。坠机造成该副驾驶及机上其他149人死亡。
Carsten Spohr, the chief executive of Lufthansa, and Thomas Winkelmann, the chief executive of its low-cost subsidiary Germanwings that operated the flight that crashed, visited the French village of Seyne-les-Alpes near the crash site on Wednesday. They planned to meet victims’ relatives and workers involved in the recovery effort at the crash site, and to sign a condolence book in a local chapel, a Lufthansa spokesman said.
汉莎航空首席执行官卡斯滕·施波尔(Carsten Spohr)及运营坠机航班的汉莎廉价航空子公司德国之翼(Germanwings)的首席执行官托马斯·温克尔曼(Thomas Winkelmann)周三来到坠机地点附近的法国塞恩-阿尔卑斯镇。一位汉莎航空发言人表示，这两位高管计划与遇难者家属和参与失事地点搜寻工作的人员见面，并在当地一座教堂里设置的吊唁簿上签名。
Lufthansa said late on Tuesday that in 2009, Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot, had informed the flight school operated by the airline of a “previous episode of severe depression.” Mr. Lubitz provided the information about his depression after he had taken a break of several months from the flight school and was trying to resume his training, Lufthansa said.
汉莎航空在周二晚间表示，副驾驶安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)曾在2009年告知公司经营的飞行学校，他“以前有过重度抑郁症发作的情况”。汉莎航空说，卢比茨从飞行学校休学几个月之后，在试图恢复训练时，提供了有关自己抑郁症的信息。
The airline’s admission and the likely effect on its reputation come as it is facing a long list of serious challenges, including heightened competition in both short- and long-haul routes and tense relations with the pilots’ union that have led to a series of costly strikes.
汉莎航空的承认以及这对其声誉可能造成影响的时候，公司正面临着一连串的严峻挑战，包括在短程和长程航线上面临加剧的竞争，而且，公司与飞行员工会的紧张关系已引发了一系列损失巨大的罢工。
The possibility that a pilot was able to hide problems well enough to keep flying could also blemish one of Lufthansa’s main selling points, its reputation for technical excellence and safety. Until last week, Lufthansa and its subsidiaries had not had a fatal flying accident in 22 years.
飞行员将问题足够严密地向公司隐瞒、从而能继续飞行的这种可能性，也会让汉莎航空的一个主要卖点受污，汉莎曾享有技术卓越及飞行安全的声誉。在上周前，汉莎航空及其子公司已在22年中没有发生过导致死亡的飞行事故。
Since taking over as chief executive of Lufthansa in May, one of Mr. Spohr’s responses to competition from no-frills airlines like Ryanair has been to put more emphasis on Germanwings.
自从去年五月接任了汉莎航空的首席执行官以来，施波尔对来自其它只提供基本服务的公司、比如瑞安航空公司(Ryanair)的竞争的响应，是更多地强调德国之翼。
But already, questions were being raised about whether European procedures allow inexperienced pilots to have too much responsibility. Mr. Lubitz had 630 hours of flight time when, according to investigators, he steered the Germanwings flight to Düsseldorf, Germany, from Barcelona, Spain, into a mountainside.
然而，已经有人提出问题，那就是欧洲的训练程序是否让没有经验的飞行员承担太多的责任。据调查人员说，卢比茨有630个小时的飞行经验，他把从西班牙巴塞罗那飞往德国杜塞尔多夫的德翼航班驾驶到山坡上去了。
“How was it that this guy could have had only 630 hours and already be flying an A320?” said Amy Fraher, a former United States Navy commander and United Airlines pilot. “It is a big, sophisticated aircraft with a lot of power and, in this case, 150 people on board.”
美国前海军军官、现任美国联合航空公司飞行员的艾米·弗拉赫尔(Amy Fraher)说，“这家伙只有630小时（的飞行经验），他怎么可能已经在驾驶A320？这是一种大型的高端飞机，有很大的动力，这次，机上还载有150人。”
“It troubles me,” said Ms. Fraher, who also lectures at the University of Birmingham in Britain.
“这令我费解，”弗拉赫尔说，她也在英国伯明翰大学授课。
“The industry has been growing so fast, and it has become so competitive,” she continued. “I see evidence that, in the interests of cost-cutting, pilot training has become condensed” to a just a few years, rather than the seven or eight years that was once the industry norm worldwide.
她接下来说，“民航工业一直在如此之快地增长，竞争已变得如此之大，我看到的一些证据表明，为了削减成本，飞行员的培训过程被缩短”到只有几年，而不是七、八年，那曾是全球民航业的标准。
“Such an accelerated career path runs doesn’t give young pilots time to become more professional and properly seasoned,” she said.
“这种加速度的职业发展道路不能给年轻飞行员足够的时间，让他们更专业、得到适当的成熟，”她说。
Others, however, dispute that Lufthansa’s training practices played a role in the Germanwings crash.
但也有人否认汉莎航空的培训实践在德翼坠机上起了作用。
“We have no evidence there has been cost-cutting on safety,” said Christoph Drescher, general secretary of the European Cabin Crew Association, which represents flight attendants.
“我们没有任何证据表明在安全上削减了成本，”代表空中服务人员的欧洲乘务员协会(European Cabin Crew Association)秘书长克里斯托夫·德雷舍尔(Christoph Drescher)说。
“The colleagues from Germanwings are very well trained,” Mr. Drescher said. “The regulatory standards are upheld and exceeded.”
“德国之翼的同事都非常训练有素，”德雷舍尔说。“他们坚守以及超越了监管标准。”
Mr. Drescher is also a representative of the German flight attendants’ union, known by its German abbreviation U.F.O., which has been involved in tense negotiations with Lufthansa.
德雷舍尔也是德国空乘人员工会的代表，工会的德文首字母简称是UFO，它曾与汉莎进行过紧张的谈判。
The German pilots’ union, known as Cockpit, has staged numerous strikes during the last year that have forced mass cancellations of flights. The strikes have cost the airline hundreds of millions of dollars in lost revenue, as well as the expense of rerouting or providing accommodation for passengers whose flights were canceled.
以“考克皮特”(Cockpit)为名的德国飞行员工会去年曾组织过多次罢工，迫使大量航班被取消。罢工不仅让航空公司承受了数亿美元的收入损失，而且还让公司承担了为航班被取消的乘客更改航班或提供住宿的费用。
But the unions have rallied around Lufthansa and Germanwings since last week’s crash, and they have declined to criticize airline management.
但自从上周飞机失事后，这些工会都站出来支持汉莎和德翼，都拒绝批评航空公司的管理。
It is certain that the victims’ families will file lawsuits. However, Lufthansa shares were little changed on Wednesday, probably because most of the expense from lawsuits would be covered by insurance. The shares have fallen 7 percent since the beginning of the year.
毫无疑问，遇难者家属将提起诉讼。不过，汉莎的股价周三几乎没有变化，可能是因为大部分因诉讼而产生的费用将由保险公司承担。汉莎的股价与今年年初相比下跌了7％。
Until last week, Lufthansa as well as its subsidiaries Germanwings, Eurowings, Austrian Airlines and Swiss had not had a fatal accident since 1993. Lufthansa’s worst fatal accident ever was in Nairobi, Kenya, in 1974, which killed 59 of the 157 people on board, according to Ascend, an aviation consulting firm based in London.
直到上周前，汉莎航空及其子公司德国之翼、欧洲之翼(Eurowings)、奥地利航空公司(Austrian Airlines)，以及瑞士国际航空公司(SWISS)都自1993年以来没有发生过死亡事故。据总部设在伦敦的航空咨询公司Ascend的记录，汉莎航空最严重的死亡事故是1974年发生在肯尼亚首都内罗毕的那起，事故导致机上157人中的59人死亡。
Lufthansa was founded on April 1, 1955, using the same name as a bankrupt predecessor.
汉莎航空成立于1955年，用的是与一个破产了的公司相同的名字。