A gift for spatial reasoning — the kind that may inspire an imaginative child to dismantle a clock or the family refrigerator — may be a greater predictor of future creativity or innovation than math or verbal skills, particularly in math, science and related fields, according to a study published Monday in the journal Psychological Science.
本周一的学术期刊《心理科学》(Psychological Science)中刊登了一份研究，文章显示，空间推理的天赋——激发一个富有想象力的孩子产生拆卸家中钟表或者冰箱的兴趣的那种天赋——可能比数学能力与语言能力更能预示孩子未来的创造能力或创新能力，尤其是在数学、科学以及其相关领域内。
The study looked at the professional success of people who, as 13-year-olds, had taken both the SAT, because they had been flagged as particularly gifted, as well as the Differential Aptitude Test. That exam measures spatial relations skills, the ability to visualize and manipulate two-and three-dimensional objects. While math and verbal scores proved to be an accurate predictor of the students’ later accomplishments, adding spatial ability scores significantly increased the accuracy.
该研究关注的是一个特定人群的职业成就，他们被视为极天才少年，均在13岁的时候参加了SAT（Scholastic Assessment Test，即学术能力评估测试）考试和区分能力倾向测验(Differential Aptitude Test)。后者考量的是空间相关的技巧，即把二维与三维的物体具象化和进行处理的能力。研究证实，数学以及语言方面的分数准确地预示了学生们后来的成就，而空间推理能力部分的分数则能显著地提高预估的精确度。
The researchers, from Vanderbilt University in Nashville, said their findings make a strong case for rewriting standardized tests like the SAT and ACT to focus more on spatial ability, to help identify children who excel in this area and foster their talents.
来自美国纳什维尔市范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)的研究人员表示，他们的发现为重新修正像SAT和ACT（American College Testing，即美国大学入学考试）这样的标准化测试提供了强有力的依据，要更关注空间方面的能力，帮助区分那些能在这个领域比较优秀的孩子，发掘他们的潜力。
“Evidence has been mounting over several decades that spatial ability gives us something that we don’t capture with traditional measures used in educational selection,” said David Lubinski, the lead author of the study and a psychologist at Vanderbilt. “We could be losing some modern-day Edisons and Fords.”
“几十年来，不断有证据表明，空间能力能向我们揭示教育领域所使用的传统考评方式无法捕捉到的东西，”本研究的第一作者、范德堡大学心理学研究员大卫·鲁宾斯基(David Lubinski)说，“我们之前可能错过了一些现代的爱迪生和福特。”
Following up on a study from the 1970s, Dr. Lubinski and his colleagues tracked the professional progress of 563 students who had scored in the top 0.5 percent on the SAT 30 years ago, when they were 13. At the time, the students had also taken the Differential Aptitude Test.
鲁宾斯基博士和他的同事们跟进一项在上世纪70年代便已开始的研究，追踪研究了563名学生的职业进程，他们在距今30年之前的SAT考试中排名前0.5%，那时他们均为13岁。当时，这些学生也都参加了区分能力倾向测验。
Years later, the children who had scored exceptionally high on the SAT also tended to be high achievers — not surprisingly — measured in terms of the scholarly papers they had published and patents that they held. But there was an even higher correlation with success among those who had also scored highest on the spatial relations test, which the researchers judged to be a critical diagnostic for achievement in technology, engineering, math and science.
多年过后，以发表的学术论文和拥有的专利权数量来衡量，那些在SAT中得到高分的孩子们大多事业有成。但是，在这些高分考生之中，在空间相关的试题上得到最高分的孩子，他们的高分与成功的相关性要更高一些。研究者最终认定，对于孩子将来在科技、工程、数学以及科学领域上获得的成功，空间能力是一项极其重要的预判因素。
Cognitive psychologists have long suspected that spatial ability — sometimes referred to as the “orphan ability” for its tendency to go undetected — is key to success in technical fields. Earlier studies have shown that students with a high spatial aptitude are not only overrepresented in those fields, but may receive little guidance in high school and underachieve as a result. (Note to parents: Legos and chemistry sets are considered good gifts for the spatial relations set.)
因为很难被发现察觉，空间能力有时被叫作“孤儿能力”，长久以来，认知心理学家一直怀疑它是否是在科技领域内获得成就的关键所在。先前的研究表明，拥有极高空间才能的学生在这些领域获得成功的比例较大，但也可能因在高中时接受的指导太少而导致未能发挥应有水平。(在此提醒各位家长：对于孩子空间相关能力的培养，乐高积木和化学实验用品都是不错的礼物。)
The correlation has “been suspected, but not as well researched” as the predictive power of math skills, said David Geary, a psychologist at the University of Missouri, who was not involved in the study, which was funded by the John Templeton Foundation. The new research is significant, he said, for showing that “high levels of performance in STEM fields” — science, technology, engineering and math — “are not simply related to math abilities.”
密苏里大学(University of Missouri)的心理学家大卫·吉尔里(David Geary)说，学界一直在“猜想”空间能力与日后成就之间的关联性，但不像已经得到认同的数学技能的预测作用，它“还未得到充分的研究证实”。他并没有参与本次由约翰·邓普顿基金会(John Templeton Foundation)出资赞助的研究。他说，这项新的研究意义非凡，因为它表明了“在STEM领域的高水平表现”——即科学、科技、工程及数学领域——“不仅仅是与数学能力有关”。
Testing spatial aptitude is not particularly difficult, Dr. Geary added, but is simply not part of standardized testing because it is considered a cognitive function — the realm of I.Q. and intelligence tests — and is not typically a skill taught in school.
据吉尔里博士补充，空间才能的测试其实并不是特别困难，只不过它并不是标准化考试的一部分，因为它被认为是一项认知型的技能——属于智商以及智力测验的范畴——而并不是典型的在学校中所教授的那种技能。
“It’s not like math or English, it’s not part of an academic curriculum,” he said. “It’s more of a basic competence. For that reason it just wasn’t on people’s minds when developing these tests.”
“它和数学或英语不一样，它不是学校课程之中的一部分，”他说，“它更多多的是一种基本能力。所以在设计这些考试的时候，人们并没有想到它。”
It is also a competence more associated with men than women. In the current study, boys greatly outnumbered girls, 393 to 170, reflecting the original scores of the students in the ’70s. But the study found no difference in the levels of adult achievement, said Dr. Lubinski, though the women were more likely than the men to work in medicine and the social sciences.
它也是一种更多地和男性联系在一起的才能。在这个研究中，从上世纪70年代那批学生的男女比例上可以反映出这一点：男生以393对170远超女生。鲁宾斯基博士说，尽管在医药以及社会科学领域工作的女性要多于男性，但该研究并没有发现在成人后他们所获得的成就有什么差别。