It’s a common enough dream for those who live in cramped urban spaces: Suddenly you notice a door you never realized was there and beyond it a room you didn’t know you had — or maybe an entire wing of your home, just waiting to be occupied.
这样的一个梦，对于那些生活在狭小都市住宅里的人来说，是再普通不过的了：有一天，你忽然发现了一扇之前从未察觉的门，后面有一间你根本不知道也属于你的房间——或是你家房子的整座侧楼，就只等着你住进去。
That’s more or less what happened to Chris Cooper and Jennifer Hanlin last year. Only it wasn’t a dream.
去年，克里斯·库伯(Chris Cooper)与詹妮弗·汉林(Jennifer Hanlin)就遇到了类似的情况。只不过，那不是一场梦。
Mr. Cooper, 46, an architect, explains their discovery of an additional 325 square feet in their Brooklyn condominium as merely a matter of applying what he calls “reductive simplicity.” He and Ms. Hanlin, 44, an interior designer, were inspired by Japanese design, he said: “In Tokyo, there’s the hustle and bustle, and then you walk into a garden or a tatami room and there’s calm. We wanted our home to be neutral, contemplative and calm.”
今年46岁的建筑师库伯发现，他们在布鲁克林的共管公寓多出来了325平方英尺（约合30平方米）的面积。但他澄清，这件事只不过是运用了他所谓的“缩减式简化”手法。他与44岁的室内设计师汉林受到日式设计风格的启发，他说：“在东京，大街上到处都是熙熙攘攘的；而当你走进一座花园或一间榻榻米房间，就会有一种安静的感觉。我们希望自己的家是那种中性的、可以冥想、又很安静的地方。”
True, that always makes a space feel bigger. But it also helps if you actually happen to have a room you had sort of forgotten about — an unused mezzanine, say. To be fair, it wasn’t exactly a mezzanine when the couple bought the apartment in 2005, for $675,000. Most of it was a crawl space that housed the water heater.
的确如此，那样的地方总会让人感觉空间更大一些。但你如果凑巧有一处差点没想起来的空间，也同样很有帮助——比如说，一处从未使用过的夹层。凭心而论，库伯夫妇2005年以67.5万美元（约合人民币415万元）买下这套公寓的时候，屋里确切来说并没有什么夹层，室内空间大部分是不规则的，专门用来安置热水器。
Mr. Cooper, Ms. Hanlin and their 11-year-old twins, Mia and Felix, live on the fifth and sixth floors of a Cobble Hill building that once housed the School of the Sacred Hearts and was converted into a 34-unit condominium in the 1980s. Before the conversion, their apartment was three separate spaces: a classroom, a boys’ bathroom and a mechanical room.
库伯、汉林以及他们11岁的双胞胎米亚(Mia)和菲利克斯(Felix)生活在科博尔山(Cobble Hill)一栋建筑中的五楼与六楼，那座建筑曾是圣心学校(School of the Sacred Hearts)的所在地，于20世纪80年代经过改造，变成了一栋有34个单元的共管公寓楼。在那次改建之前，他们的公寓是三个分开的地方：一间教室、一间男卫生间和一间设备房。
They began their act of reductive simplicity by gutting most of the apartment. To create a soaring living area that would feel bigger than it was, they raised part of the ceiling on the lower level. The rest of the lower-level ceiling was dropped, so they could insert a library and television room into the crawl space above. They used slatted wood partitions to bring light into those rooms from the living area below, and added lots of built-in storage.
于是，他们开始对其进行缩减式简化，方法是拆除这套公寓的大部分地方。同时，为了打造出一个上升的居住空间，可以让家里感觉比以前大一些，他们抬升了楼下部分天花板的高度，而其余楼下天花板的高度则被降低，于是，他们就能在楼上的这个不规则的空间里，安排一间书房和一间电视房了。他们还采用了板条式木隔板，把下面客厅区的光线引入那些房间，又在里面添了许多嵌壁式的储物空间。
And like magic, when the $300,000 renovation was complete, their apartment had gone from 1,375 square feet to 1,700 square feet — not an enormous addition, but an addition nonetheless.
等到这次耗资30万美元（约合人民币184万元）的翻修工程竣工时，他们的公寓就像变戏法般，从原来的1375平方英尺（约128平方米）变成了1700平方英尺（约158平方米）——面积虽不是大幅度增加，但也多了不少。
To ensure privacy, each of the bedrooms is on a different level.
为了确保个人隐私，几间卧室分别位于不同的楼层。
Mia’s is on the lower level, with a narrow loft bed. Her requests were modest, said Ms. Hanlin, who designed the interiors: “Color — she loves color — and a string curtain.” Like most of the apartment, the room is white, but the closet is painted a hot pink that casts a rosy glow through its string-curtain door.
米亚的卧室位于楼下那一层，她有一张阁楼式的单人床，那是她提出的要求里最容易做到的，负责室内设计的汉林说：“只要有颜色——因为她喜欢颜色——和一幅线帘就行了。”这间卧室就像公寓里的大部分地方一样，是一间白色的房间，但里面那个橱柜被刷成了鲜艳的粉红色，从那扇挂着线帘的房门里隐约透出玫瑰色的光芒。
The master bedroom is on the mezzanine level, in the old boys’ bathroom.
主卧位于中间层，也就是原来的男卫生间里。
And Felix has what is arguably the best room: on the top floor, with his own tiny terrace, from which he can see the Empire State Building to the north and the Williamsburgh Savings Bank to the east.
而菲利克斯可以说住上了屋里最好的房间：他的卧室位于顶层，带一处小平台，从那里可以看见北边的帝国大厦(Empire State Building)和东边的威廉斯堡储蓄银行(Williamsburgh Savings Bank)。
Mr. Cooper said, “He asked that we give him space for his collections” — rocks, shells and ephemera like porcupine quills — “and a place to play his drums.”
库伯说，“他要求我们让他有地方存放他收藏的那些东西”——石头啦、贝壳啦，以及体型像豪猪刚毛一样的蜉蝣——“还得有地方让他可以练习架子鼓。”
On his bureau sits a card that reads “RAISE BOYS AND GIRLS THE SAME WAY.”
库伯的书桌上放着一张卡片，上面写着“男孩女孩一样养。”
Ms. Hanlin said, “It’s a Jenny Holzer postcard.”
汉林说，“这是一张珍妮·霍尔泽(Jenny Holzer)明信片。”