AMSTERDAM — LESS than two weeks ago, the Netherlands was still delirious with the fever surrounding the World Cup. The Dutch unexpectedly achieved third place. Dutch nationalism, usually muted, was briefly turned into mandatory enthusiasm, as the Dutch team racked up victories over Spain, Australia, Chile, Costa Rica, Mexico and, finally, Brazil. On Twitter, a soccer commentator who ventured a few critical remarks about the Dutch team received comments to the effect that he should be thrown out of a plane.
阿姆斯特丹——不到两周以前，荷兰还沉浸在世界杯热潮带来的极度兴奋之中。荷兰队出人意料地取得了第三名。随着荷兰连克西班牙、澳大利亚、智利、哥斯达黎加、墨西哥，并最终战胜巴西队，通常颇为沉寂的荷兰民族主义短暂地变为必不可少的激情。在Twitter上，一名足球评论员斗胆批评了荷兰队几句，得到的反馈大意是应该把他从飞机上扔下去。
Then, on Thursday, while en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down in eastern Ukraine. Of the 298 passengers and crew members who were killed, 193 were Dutch nationals, among them a famous AIDS researcher, Joep Lange, and a senator and legal scholar, Willem Witteveen. The compulsory enthusiasm so rampant during the World Cup — at least until the semifinal match against Argentina — quickly switched to compulsory mourning. “Everyone knows at least someone,” the usually sober newspaper NRC Handelsblad proclaimed on its front page.
然而，到了上周四，从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡的马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班在乌克兰东部被击落。遇难的298名乘客与机组成员中，有193人为荷兰公民，其中包括著名的艾滋病研究专家乔普·朗格(Joep Lange)，以及参议员、法学学者威廉·维特芬(Willem Witteveen)。世界杯期间必须履行的狂热激情义务——至少延续到半决赛对阵阿根廷的时候——很快变成了哀悼的义务。通常文风冷峻的新鹿特丹商业报(NRC Handelsblad)在其头版上宣称《每个人都至少认识上面的某个人》。
Dutch leaders were more circumspect. Over the weekend, Prime Minister Mark Rutte expressed outrage at the “utterly disrespectful behavior” of pro-Russian separatist rebels, who had refused to release most of the victims’ bodies, housed in refrigerated boxcars at a decrepit railway station — a ghoulish limbo. But he has avoided any outward expression of grief. So has the new king, Willem-Alexander, who has offered his condolences but stopped short of anything like calling for a national day of mourning. Which was a wise decision: Mourning is not the government’s business.
荷兰领导人则更为克制。周末期间，首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)对亲俄分裂分子“极端不敬的行为”表示愤慨，不过他避免了对悲痛之情的任何直接表露。分裂分子一度拒绝交出大部分遇难者的遗体，而是将其放置在一座破败火车站的冷冻货厢内，好似孤魂野鬼。新国王威廉-亚历山大(Willem-Alexander)也很克制。他表示了慰问，但没有呼吁举国哀悼一天之类的举动。此举颇为明智，因为哀悼并不关政府什么事。
It’s a cliché that the Dutch are “sober.” Sobriety is a part of Dutch identity, but — especially after the gay right-wing populist politician Pim Fortuyn was killed in 2002 — the country also displays symptoms of hysteria. When I was growing up in Amsterdam in the 1970s and 80s, nationalism was considered evidence of bad taste. There are historical reasons for this, including the collaboration of many Dutch officials with Nazis during the Holocaust and the history of Dutch colonialism in modern-day Indonesia, Suriname, South Africa and the like.
所谓荷兰人“冷静”的说法实为陈词滥调。冷静的确是荷兰人的一种特质，但荷兰也会表现出歇斯底里的症状，尤其是同性恋右翼民粹主义政客皮姆·富图恩(Pim Fortuyn)于2002年遇害之后。我是上世纪七八十年代在阿姆斯特丹长大的。那时，民族主义被认为是低级趣味的象征。这里蕴含着历史原因，包括纳粹大屠杀期间许多荷兰官员与纳粹合作，以及荷兰曾在今天的印尼、苏里南和南非等国进行殖民统治。
Yes, when the national team played soccer (especially against Germany), a modicum of cheerful nationalism was allowed; when a Dutchman excelled in the Tour de France, a certain amount of national pride was permitted. Beyond that, however, nationalism was considered a throwback.
的确，当国家足球队打比赛（尤其是对阵德国队）的时候，来点欢快的民族主义是没问题的；当荷兰人在环法自行车赛上表现出色的时候，展现一些民族自豪感也没问题。不过，这些情形之外，民族主义就会被认为过了时。
All this changed after 2002, and especially after 2004, when the film director Theo van Gogh was killed by a son of Moroccan immigrants. Newcomers, particularly Muslim ones, were accused of a lack of patriotism. Of not being really Dutch, or even worse — according to Geert Wilders of the extreme-right Party for Freedom, most Dutch Muslims were out to transform the kingdom into a caliphate.
2002年以后，尤其是电影导演提奥·梵高(Theo van Gogh)在2004年被一个摩洛哥移民的儿子杀害之后，一切都变了。新移民，尤其是穆斯林，受到不够爱国的指责。还有，他们不是真正的荷兰人，或者更糟糕——依照来自极右翼的自由党(Party for Freedom)的海尔特·维尔德斯(Geert Wilders)的说法，多数荷兰穆斯林要把这个王国变成哈里发国。
Fanned by the news media and on social media, emotions are increasingly exhibited in public. Those who display nothing, who refuse to take part in this emotional exhibitionism, are suspected of being psychologically defective.
在新闻媒体和社交媒体的煽风点火之下，民族情绪越来越多地得以公开展示。什么都不展示的人，拒绝参与情感宣泄的人，会被怀疑有心理缺陷。
But is it really logical for the Dutch person to feel more for his 193 dead countrymen than, say, for the four Belgians and four Germans who were also on that flight? For a Dutchman, do 200 dead strangers call for greater dismay than 200 dead Iraqi or Afghan strangers killed in a bombing? To reply in the affirmative would be to fly in the face of humanism. The Dutch people killed on the flight did not die because they were Dutch. As far as we know, pro-Russian separatists perpetrated a fatal blunder.
可是，对一个荷兰人而言，更多地同情193名遇难同胞，而不那么同情，比方说，同一趟航班上的四个比利时人和四个德国人，这真的在逻辑上说得通吗？对一个荷兰人而言，200名素不相识的死者，应该比200名在轰炸中死难的伊拉克人或阿富汗人唤起更多的悲伤吗？如果答案是肯定的，那将违背人性。在这架飞机上罹难的荷兰人并非死于他们的荷兰身份。目前看来，那是亲俄分裂分子犯下了一个致命错误所致。
Like the World Cup, a tragedy like that of Flight 17 seems to be an instrument to promote collective identity, to pretend that Dutch sovereignty still exists, to feel something together, as a group. The sad thing about mourning is that it really is quite unshareable, that it involves an extremely individual emotion. People have the right not to show their emotions and not to share them, even when it comes to soccer and calamity.
与世界杯一样，MH17航班这样的悲剧事件似乎是提升集体身份认同感、假装还存在荷兰主权的概念，并感受某种群体性的一种途径。遗憾的是，哀悼的确是很难分享的，是一种极为个人化的情感。人们有权不去展示自己的情绪，不去分享，即便是在足球和天灾人祸面前。
From this, it follows that we also have the right to admit that we sometimes feel nothing at all. The whole world puts a claim on our feelings, from the lady next door to our family members and the panhandler on the street, from the news about Gaza and on to Ukraine, from Congo to Syria. Our emotions are constantly being claimed.
进而我们又可以说：我们有权承认，有时候我们什么感觉也没有。全世界都想让我们有所触动，从隔壁的女士到亲属和街上的乞丐，从加沙到乌克兰的新闻，从刚果到叙利亚。不停地有人要求我们表达情感。