GRABOVO, Ukraine — Headphones and computers were scattered throughout a field of sunflowers. In another field, a Dutch passport lay open. Bodies fell from the sky, looking like rags or clumps of ash.
乌克兰格拉博沃——耳机和电脑散布在一片向日葵田里。另一块田地里则有一份打开的荷兰护照。尸体从天空纷纷坠落，看起来就像破布或一团团灰烬。
That was some of what residents and rescue workers saw after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 came to a jolting rest in a large wheat field dotted with purple flowers and Queen Anne’s lace, trailing debris over several miles of sparsely populated Ukrainian farmland.
这就是马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines Flight)17号航班坠毁在一大片点缀着紫色花朵和野胡萝卜花的麦田后，这里的居民和救援人员所看到的部分情景。它的残骸在这个人口稀少的乌克兰农村地带散落了好几英里。
“It was horrible,” said a separatist rebel who was part of the rescue crew and would give only his first name, Sergei. “We were in shock.”
“太可怕了，”一名参与救援的分离主义武装分子表示。“我们十分震惊。”他只表示自己名叫谢尔盖(Sergei)。
The road to the crash site in eastern Ukraine, not far from the Russian border, was lined with fire engines and other emergency vehicles. Separatist militiamen, plentiful in this rebel-controlled territory, urged journalists to take photographs.
通往乌克兰东部坠机地点的道路上都是消防车和其他紧急救援车辆。这里离俄罗斯边境不远。这个由反对派控制的地区有许多分离主义民兵，他们鼓励记者拍摄照片。
There were no houses in the immediate vicinity. The only visible structure was a poultry operation with long white coops in the distance.
附近并没有任何住房。唯一能看到的建筑就是一个家禽养殖场，远处可以看到长长的白色鸡舍。
Rescue workers had already tied small white strips of cloth to tree branches along the debris path to mark the locations of the bodies. As darkness descended on the field, the workers gathered in throngs near a line of ambulances and rescue cars. Dogs barked in the distance, and the air smelled bitter.
救援人员已经在残骸沿线的树枝上系上了小小的白色布条，以标明尸体地点。随着夜幕降临，救援人员纷纷向救护车和救援车辆组成的车队聚拢。远处传来狗吠，空气里有一种焦糊的味道。
Incongruously, many of the bodies strewn about in the smoldering wreckage were largely intact. A woman in a black sweater lay on her back, blood streaming from her face, her left arm raised as if signaling someone. Another victim, naked except for a black bra, lay on the field, her gray hair mixing with the green grass, one leg broken and her body torn.
奇怪的是，许多散落在仍在阴燃的残骸中的人体基本完好无损。一名身穿黑色运动衫的女子躺在地上，鲜血从她的脸颊流出，她左臂举起，仿佛在向某人示意。另一名遇难者身上只穿着一件黑色文胸，她躺在田地里，灰色的头发参杂在绿草中间，她的一条腿断了，身体已被撕裂。
Pieces of the plane were scattered across the road and field: a seat back with its television display cracked; a tail fin clearly displaying the red and blue colors of Malaysia Airlines. One televised image showed a travel guide for Bali, Indonesia, almost untouched.
飞机的碎片布满整个道路和田地：一个座椅靠背上的电视显示屏已经破裂；一个飞机尾翼还明显能看到马航的红蓝标记。电视画面上还出现了一本几乎完好无损的关于巴厘岛和印尼的旅游手册。
Many of the victims were still in their seatbelts, attached to pieces of the plane. One man, still in his socks but without pants, lay akimbo on the field, his right arm placed on his stomach as if in repose. Others had personal belongings nearby. A young man in blue shorts, wearing red Nike sneakers but no pants, lay with his arms and legs splayed outward, his iPhone by his side.
许多遇难者仍然系着安全带，与飞机的残骸绑在一起。有一名男子仍然穿着袜子，但裤子已经不翼而飞，他躺在地上，双手叉腰，右手放在胃部，就像睡着了一样。还有些人的个人物品就在附近。一名穿着蓝色短裤的年轻男子穿着红色的耐克(Nike)运动鞋，但是没有穿裤子，他双腿打开，身边还有他的iPhone。
The closest village was Grabovo, a small coal-mining town whose residents had been among the first to see the plane. Oleg Georgievich, 40, a miner who is also fighting with the insurgency here, said he had heard noises shortly after 4 p.m. and thought the town was being bombed. Aircraft have been flying over daily, he said, and have bombed neighboring villages on a number of occasions.
离现场最近的村庄是格拉博沃，一个采煤的小镇子，那里的居民是最先看到飞机的一批人。40岁的矿工奥列格·格奥尔基维奇(Oleg Georgievich)说，下午4点刚过，他听到了声响，以为村子被炸了。他参加了这里的反叛运动，据他说每天都有飞机飞过，且已多次轰炸周围的村落。
He heard a sound like a whistle, then walked onto to his balcony on the fifth floor and saw something falling from the sky. He later understood it was part of the plane’s fuselage. Then he saw something strange, things that looked like pieces of cloth coming fast toward the earth. They were bodies, many with their clothing torn off.
听到一个像口哨一样的声音后，他走到五楼的阳台，看到有东西从天上掉下来。他后来了解到，那是飞机的部分机身。然后，他看到了一些奇怪的东西，看着像一块块布一样，迅速坠落到地上。那是遇难者的遗体，很多人的衣服被扯掉了。
His first call from the site of the crash, he said, was at 4:32 p.m. He said he found an odd assortment of items: equipment for horses, including brushes; medical supplies; a Dutch passport.
他说，他第一次从坠机现场打电话是下午4点32分。他说自己发现了各种各样奇怪的东西：包括刷子在内的马具；医疗用品；一本荷兰护照。
Rescue workers said they counted many children. A boy who looked to be around 10 lay on his side in the grass in a red T-shirt that read “Don’t Panic.”
救援人员表示他们发现了很多孩子。一个看上去10岁左右的男孩侧身躺在草地上，穿着一件红色T恤，上面写着“不要惊慌”。
A rescue worker manning a white table, who would give only his first name, Alexei, said the area of the crash was 10 to 15 square kilometers — about six to nine square miles — in a rectangle that he had marked in red pen in crosshatching on a map.
一名正在摆弄一张白色桌子的救援人员表示，坠机地点是一个面积为10至15平方公里的长方形区域。只愿透露自己名叫阿列克谢(Alexei)的他在地图上用红色的阴影线标注出了这个区域。
He said that parts of the plane were scattered over the entire area and that the pilot had not tried to land in the field: The plane appeared to have been torn apart in the sky.
他说，飞机部件散布在整个区域，飞行员未尝试降落在这片田地上：飞机看上去是在空中裂成碎片的。
“It fell down in pieces,” he said, adding that rescue workers numbered about 60 and were setting up tents to gather the dead.
“飞机坠落时已经是碎片了，”他说。他接着表示救援人员约有60人，他们正在搭建帐篷，以便收集遇难者遗体。