Asiana Airlines of South Korea said Monday that it would increase training for its pilots after the crash of one of its Boeing 777 jets at San Francisco International Airport.
旗下一架波音(Boeing)777客机在旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)失事之后，韩国韩亚航空公司(Asiana Airlines)于周一表示，将增加对公司驾驶员的培训。
Asiana will give special safety training, including an enhanced program for visual approaches and automated flight, to all of its pilots. It said it would also strengthen its training programs for those switching to a new type of jet, a senior executive said in a presentation to the South Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport.
韩亚将进行特殊的安全培训，其中包括关于凭视觉着陆和自动飞行的一个强化培训项目。韩亚的一名高管在向韩国国土交通部(South Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport)做演示时说，公司还会强化针对转驾新机型的驾驶员的培训计划。
The Asiana report was released by the ministry, which on Monday gathered representatives of all South Korean airline companies to stress safety after the July 6 crash. Three Chinese teenagers were killed and more than 180 injured when the Asiana flight crash-landed.
该部发布了关于韩亚的报告，在7月6日客机失事之后，该部于周一召集了所有韩国航空公司的代表，向他们强调安全的重要性。韩亚航班的坠机事故导致三名中国青少年遇难，180多名旅客受伤。
The South Korean pilot, Lee Kang-guk, who was in training for the 777, was landing the plane at the San Francisco airport for the first time, making a visual approach.
事故发生之时，正在接受777飞行培训的韩国飞行员李政民(Lee Kang-guk)通过视觉着陆。这是他首次在旧金山机场着陆。
He had logged more than 9,700 hours of flying on Airbus A320s, Boeing 737s and Boeing 747s, but he had only 43 hours of flying time with 777s and had made eight landings with them. A senior colleague with more experience landing 777s sat beside him as co-pilot, but he was flying as a 777 instructor for the first time.
李政民有超过9700小时驾驶空客(Airbus)A320客机、波音737和波音747客机的飞行记录，然而，他只有43小时的波音777驾驶经验，而且只驾驶该机型着陆过八次。一名有着更丰富的777着陆经验的资深同事作为副驾驶员坐在他旁边，不过，这名同事是第一次作为777飞行教官参与飞行。
As Asiana prepares to bolster its training, the crash has created a debate among pilots in the United States about training, automation and cultural factors. The crash is the third involving a fatal error by a Korean carrier on American territory in which crew coordination appears to have been a factor. There is also a lingering argument about pilots relying too much on automation. The Boeing 777 crashed on July 6 during a manual landing.
韩亚准备加强培训之时，此次坠机事故已经在美国飞行员中引发了关于培训、自动驾驶和文化因素的讨论。此次坠机事故是韩国承运人第三次在美国境内犯下致命错误，事故当中，机组成员协作不到位似乎是一个导致错误的因素。另一个挥之不去的论点是，飞行员过于依赖自动驾驶。此次波音777事故发生于7月6日，当时飞机正在进行人工着陆。
For example, a posting circulating on the Internet argues that over-reliance on automation has resulted in the atrophy of basic flying skills. Soon after the crash, Thomas W. Brown, an American who retired from an airline based in the United States and who is said to have worked for five years for a Boeing subsidiary that trains Koreans, wrote about the over-reliance on automation. One problem, according to Mr. Brown, is that South Korea has no network of small airports with private planes to nurture flying skills in young people.
比如，互联网上流传的一篇帖子称，过度依赖自动化导致了基本飞行技能的萎缩。坠机事件发生后不久，美国一家航空公司的退休人员托马斯·W·布朗(Thomas W. Brown)撰文论述了对自动化的过度依赖。据称，布朗已为波音旗下一家培训韩国人的子公司工作了五年。据布朗称，问题之一是，韩国没有可用于培养年轻人飞行技能的那种附带私人飞机的小机场网络。
Mr. Brown said in a telephone interview that the problem was not restricted to Koreans or Asians, but that over-dependence on automation was making most pilots’ experience less meaningful. “You get the autopilot on at 250 feet over the ground and you keep it on for 16 hours, until one minute before touchdown, and you really don’t get any flying experience,” he said.
布朗在接受电话采访时说，这个问题不仅限于韩国或亚洲，过度依赖自动化正在让大部分飞行员的经验越来越没意义。“在离地面250英尺（约76米）的地方开启自动驾驶仪，让它运作16个小时，直到降落的前一分钟，这样真的学不到任何飞行经验，”他说。
Mr. Brown also cited the 1997 crash of a Korean Airlines Boeing 747 in Guam. In that case, the junior crew member in the cockpit, a flight engineer, unsuccessfully sought to warn the captain of errors that were making the plane fly too low.
布朗还举了一个例子，也就是1997年大韩航空(Korean Airlines)一架波音747飞机在关岛发生的坠机事件。在那起事故中，作为驾驶员座舱内的一名低级机组成员，随机工程师试图提醒机长改正导致飞机高度过低的错误，但却未能成功。
Pilots are also calling attention to the crash of an advanced version of the Boeing 737 flown by Air India Express at Mangalore in May 2010.
一些飞行员还提醒人们，2010年5月印航快捷航空公司(Air India Express)一架机型先进的波音737在芒格洛尔的坠机事件也值得注意。
In that crash, the first officer suggested breaking off the approach because the plane was far too high, but the captain, who had been asleep for most of the flight, tried to land anyway. The crash killed 158 people.
在该事件中，副驾驶员建议脱离进场航线，因为飞机的飞行高度过高，然而，飞行过程中大部分时间都在睡觉的机长依然决定降落。该坠机事件导致158人死亡。
The issue of undue deference to the pilot operating the plane is a question for the National Transportation Safety Board, which is looking into whether there was an “authority gradient” between the pilot at the controls of the Asiana plane and the pilot who was supposed to be monitoring him and a third pilot in the jump seat, neither of whom intervened.
对国家安全运输委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)而言，过分顺从操作飞机的飞行员是一个问题。该委员会正在调查，操作韩亚航空失事飞机的飞行员、本应监督该飞行员的飞行员以及坐在可折式座椅上的另一名飞行员之间是否存在“职权梯度”，后两名飞行员均未采取干预措施。