TOREZ, Ukraine — In the end, they were sent off alone, without ceremony, well-wishers or anyone much beyond a handful of armed rebels on the platform.
乌克兰多列士——最终，他们独自上路了，没有仪式，也没有祈福者。除了几个反对派武装人员，站台上几乎没有其他人。
“I feel sorry for them,” a rebel in a white T-shirt said of the bodies on the train. “So many kids. So much sorrow.”
“我为他们感到遗憾，”一名身穿白色T恤的叛乱分子提到列车上的遗体时说，“这么多孩子。太令人悲痛。”
After a long whistle, the short gray train carrying the bodies from Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 pulled out of the remote train station here on Monday, leaving behind a pile of belongings dumped on the platform — a beige purse, a North Face backpack, a child’s pink suitcase.
周一，在一记长长的笛声之后，这辆短短的灰色列车驶离了这座地处偏远的火车站。车上运送的是马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH17航班的遇难者遗体。站台上有一堆被丢弃的乘客行李：一只米色女士钱包、一个北面牌(North Face)背包，一个粉色的儿童行李箱。
As the wheels clacked on the rails, rebels walked quietly beside the train as it started a long journey across eastern Ukraine before international experts would begin to pore over the remains and possibly bring some small measure of relief to the grieving families.
车轮声声敲击着铁轨，开始了穿越乌克兰东部的漫长旅程，反对派则默默地在列车旁走着。在此之后，国际专家会开始仔细检查遗骸，或许能给悲痛的遇难者亲属带去些许安慰。
Though the wrenching story of the flight began in dozens of different countries, it ended in an eastern Ukrainian wheat field nearby, where the bodies lay in the grass for days until they were gathered by motley groups of volunteers, including local residents and coal miners straight from their shifts. Monday night’s long train ride will finally get them out of these war-torn badlands, and closer to home.
这是一个悲伤的故事。失事航班的乘客来自很多不同国家，最后随坠毁的飞机落在了离这里不远的乌克兰东部的一块麦田里。遇难者的遗体连续几天都散落在草地上，直到后来被一群形形色色的志愿者收集了起来。志愿者当中有当地居民，还有刚下班的煤矿工人。周一夜里的这次长途旅程最终会带他们离开这片饱受战争摧残的贫瘠土地，与家的距离更近一些。
The day began with a pair of Dutch experts donning masks and climbing into the train cars to inspect the bodies. They arrived at the train station around 11:30, and stood very briefly with bowed heads in a few seconds of silence before starting.
这一天，两名带着口罩的荷兰专家首先爬进车厢检查了遗体。他们11点半左右抵达了车站，开始工作之前，用几秒钟的时间短暂地肃立并低头默哀。
“We need to get the train out of here before darkness,” said Alexander Hug, the deputy chief of a mission from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, chatting with a rebel leader beside the train cars, their voices hushed.
“我们必须让火车在天黑之前出发，”欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的特派团副主任亚历山大·胡格(Alexander Hug)在车厢旁与一名反对派领导人交谈着。两人都把声音压得很低。
The stench of corpses hung over the conversation.
对话期间，空气中弥漫着尸臭。
“If we wait any longer, it won’t be good for anyone,” Mr. Hug added. “Not good for the experts, not good for the families that wait for their loved ones, and not good for you.”
胡格接着说，“如果我们继续等下去，对谁都没有好处。对专家、对等待亲人的遇难者亲属没有好处，对你们也没有。”
The plane was shot out of the sky by a surface-to-air missile that American intelligence officials say was fired by pro-Russian rebels not far from Torez. The United States has said it suspects that Russia trained the rebels to use the weapon, known as a Buk, a charge that Russia has denied.
这架飞机是被一枚地对空导弹击落的。美国的情报官员称，这枚导弹由亲俄叛军在多列士附近发射。美国已经表示，怀疑俄罗斯曾培训叛军如何使用这种名为“山毛榉”(Buk)的武器。俄罗斯否认了这一指控。
The deaths of the 298 passengers have thrust this industrial part of eastern Ukraine to the center of a tense, international crisis. The recovery effort has been plodding, in part because the state all but collapsed after this area was taken over by armed rebels this spring.
298名乘客的不幸遇难，把乌克兰东部的这片工业区骤然推入了一场紧张的国际危机的中心。恢复工作一直进展缓慢，一个原因是，在该地区今年春天被武装反对派占领后，该州几乎陷入了瘫痪。
Peter van Vliet, an expert from the forensics unit of the Dutch national police, said to a throng of television cameras in front of the dusty white train station, “I think the storage of the bodies is of good quality.” He then turned away and walked back with his colleagues to the train. Of the passengers and crew on board the flight, 193 were Dutch citizens.
在灰白色的车站前，荷兰国家警察局法医部门的专家彼得·范弗利特(Peter van Vliet)面对无数台摄像机镜头说，“我认为遗体的储存工作做得不错。”说完了这句话，他就转过身去，与同事回到了列车上。机上乘客和机组人员中，有193名荷兰公民。
Even after the tragedy, the bodies themselves have gotten caught in a political tug of war. The Ukrainian authorities accused the rebels of blocking access to the site and refusing to hand over the remains. The rebels, in turn, said they would hand over the bodies only to international representatives, not to Ukrainians.
悲剧发生后，遇难者遗体竟也卷入了政治拉锯战之中。乌克兰当局指责反对派阻挡人员进入现场并拒绝交出遇难者遗体。反对派则表示，他们只会把遗体交给国际代表，而不是乌克兰人。
Neither side recognizes the other, further complicating the process. At one point, Ukraine’s government sent a letter to the rebels in Donetsk, addressing it, “To Whom It May Concern,” according to a copy provided by Sergey Kavtaradze, a spokesman for the self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic government.
双方互不承认，让这一过程变得更加复杂。乌克兰政府一度给顿涅茨克的反对派发了一封信。副本显示，这封信的抬头是“致有关人员”。该副本由自行宣布成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国的发言人谢尔盖·卡夫塔拉泽(Sergey Kavtaradze)提供。
By late afternoon on Monday, an agreement had been reached. The Malaysian prime minister, Najib Razak, said in a statement that his government had been working “behind the scenes with those in charge of the MH17 crash site” in rebel-held territory.
直到周一傍晚，各方才达成了协议。马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)发表声明称，该国政府一直“在幕后与控制MH17空难现场的人”进行合作。那里属于反对派占领的地区。
“That contact has now been made,” he said, noting that Alexander Borodai, one of the rebel leaders, had promised to allow the train to leave for Kharkiv, eastern Ukraine’s largest city. From there, the remains will be flown to Amsterdam, and the remains of Malaysian citizens will then be flown home. Mr. Razak also said he had brokered a deal to get the black boxes, which the rebels turned over shortly after 1 a.m. on Tuesday.
“现在，我们已经达成协议，”拉扎克说。他指出，来自反对派领导层的亚历山大·博罗代(Alexander Borodai)已经作出承诺，允许列车前往乌克兰东部最大的城市哈尔科夫。遇难者遗体将从那里被飞机运往阿姆斯特丹，而马来西亚公民的遗骸则会随后运回国内。拉扎克还说，他已经达成取得黑匣子的协议。反对派会于周二下午1点多的时候交出黑匣子。
Dutch and Malaysian experts were supposed to accompany the train, but they were not present when it left the station in Torez. After it pulled away, the train was scheduled to wind its way across rebel-controlled territory and end its journey at a desolate railway yard a few miles west of Kharkiv’s airport.
荷兰和马来西亚专家本应随车护送这些遗体，但当火车驶离多列士车站的时候，他们没有出现。列车出发后，将经过蜿蜒曲折的路线，穿过反对派控制的区域，在哈尔科夫机场以西几英里的一个废弃的火车调度场结束旅程。
A Dutch Hercules transport plane flew into Kharkiv early Monday and stood by to ferry the bodies back to Amsterdam, the city where the Malaysia Airlines jet began its doomed journey en route to Asia last Thursday.
一架荷兰的大力神(Hercules)运输机周一早上抵达哈尔科夫，等待着把这些遗体运回阿姆斯特丹。上周四，这架马航客机就是从那里出发，在飞往亚洲的途中不幸坠毁。