WASHINGTON — The downing of a commercial Boeing 777 in the Ukrainian war zone on Thursday inflamed an already volatile international crisis and may bolster President Obama’s efforts to isolate Russia if evidence points to complicity by Moscow’s separatist allies.
华盛顿——一架商用波音777飞机周四在乌克兰战区被击落，加剧了一场本就变化无常的国际危机，一旦证据表明存在莫斯科的分离主义盟友的共谋，那或许会巩固奥巴马总统孤立俄罗斯的努力。
Mr. Obama was careful not to offer any judgments in his only public comments on the crash. But Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said bluntly that the aircraft with 298 people on board was “blown out of the sky,” and American intelligence and military analysts were searching for indications of Russian responsibility.
在就本次事件的唯一一次公开评论中，奥巴马小心翼翼地避免发表任何看法。但副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)直截了当地表示，载有298人的飞机是被“从空中击落”的，而且美国情报机构和军方的分析人士正在寻找俄罗斯应为此事负责的线索。
If investigators are able to confirm suspicions that the Malaysia Airlines jet was brought down by a surface-to-air missile fired by pro-Russian rebels who mistook it for a military aircraft, American officials expressed hope that the tragedy will underscore their case that Moscow has been violating Ukrainian sovereignty. While Mr. Obama imposed new sanctions on Russia just a day before, Europeans refused to adopt measures as stringent out of fear of jeopardizing their own economic ties.
有人怀疑，马来西亚这架飞机可能是被亲俄罗斯的反叛者发射的一枚地对空导弹击落的，反叛者误以为它是一架军机。如果调查人员能证实这种猜测，美国官员表示，他们希望能通过这场悲剧重申他们所说的莫斯科一直在侵犯乌克兰主权这一事实。就在前一天，奥巴马总统对俄罗斯实施了新的制裁，但因为害怕损害自己的经济合作关系，欧洲拒绝采取同样严厉的措施。
The Obama administration already has additional sanctions prepared that could be put into effect quickly if Mr. Obama so chooses. “The question is does this finally move the Europeans across that threshold,” said a senior administration official, who insisted on anonymity to speak more candidly. “I don’t know, but how could it not?”
奥巴马政府已经准备好了进一步的制裁措施，一旦作出决定可以很快生效。“问题是，此事最后会突破欧洲的忍耐限度吗，”奥巴马政府的一名高官说，“我不知道，但怎么能不会呢？”这名官员坚持要求匿名以便更坦率地发言。
European officials were cautious in their initial reactions, seeking time and information before jumping to possible consequences, and were reluctant to assign blame. But most of the slain passengers were Europeans. The majority of them, 154 in all, were from the Netherlands, where the flight originated, which could increase pressure on European governments to respond.
欧洲官员最初的反应颇为谨慎，在就此事的可能影响得出结论前，他们需要更多的时间和信息，不愿归咎于任何一方。但大部分遇难乘客为欧洲人。其中多数来自航班始发地荷兰，共计154人，这可能增加欧洲政府作出回应的压力。
As it happens, the Netherlands is one of Russia’s largest trading partners and therefore has been among the European nations concerned about the economic impact of harsher measures against Moscow. Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands cut short a holiday in Germany to return home. “The whole of the Netherlands is in mourning,” he told reporters. “This beautiful summer day has ended in the blackest possible way.”
一些欧洲国家此刻正担心对俄罗斯采取更严厉的措施会带来经济影响，作为俄罗斯最大贸易伙伴之一的荷兰就是这样。荷兰首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)结束了在德国的度假，回到荷兰。“荷兰举国处在哀痛之中，”他告诉记者，“这个美丽的夏日以最黑暗的方式结束了。”
The presidents of the European Council and European Commission, which are central governing bodies for the continental union, called for “an immediate and thorough investigation” to establish responsibility “as quickly as possible.”
欧盟的中央领导机构欧洲理事会(European Council)和欧盟委员会(European Commission)的主席呼吁“立即彻底调查”，以“尽快”明确责任。
Some analysts said the disaster would invariably lead to a re-evaluation of Europe’s approach to Russia.
部分分析人士表示，这一灾难必定会导致欧洲重新评估对待俄罗斯的方式。
“Ultimately this is going to ratchet up pressure within Europe to do what they should have done a long time ago,” said John E. Herbst, a former American ambassador to Ukraine now at the Atlantic Council in Washington. “The strength of the opposition to firm steps remains strong, and so it’s not going to go away. It’s just that their position just took a serious hit and it should lead to a stronger set of European sanctions.”
“最终，这会增加欧洲的压力，促使他们采取一些很久之前就应该采取的措施，”前美国驻乌克兰大使、目前在华盛顿大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)工作的约翰·E·赫布斯特(John E. Herbst)说。“反对采取强硬措施的力量仍然强大，所以它不会消失。只是他们的立场刚刚受到了猛烈冲击，所以欧洲应该会采取一套更强硬的制裁措施。”
While Mr. Obama did not articulate such a position, his former secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, gave voice publicly to what administration officials were saying privately.
虽然奥巴马并未表明持这种立场，但是他的前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)却把行政官员私下谈论的想法公开表达出来了。
“There does seem to be some growing awareness that it probably had to be Russian insurgents,” she told Charlie Rose on PBS. “Europeans have to be the ones to take the lead on this. It was a flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur over European territory. There should be outrage in European capitals.”
“目前有越来越多的人都认为，这大概只能是俄罗斯族叛军干的，”她在PBS告诉查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)。“这件事必须由欧洲出头。这是一架从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡的航班，途中经过欧洲领空。欧洲各国政府应该对此表示愤怒。”
Many in Washington were comparing the situation to the Soviet shooting down of a Korean Airlines passenger jet in 1983 that generated widespread international outrage and for a time left Moscow on the defensive. The Soviets initially denied involvement but later acknowledged responsibility while claiming the plane was on a spy mission.
华盛顿有许多人都认为，这次事故与1983年前苏联击落一架韩国客机的情况非常相似。当时，国际社会纷纷表示愤怒，莫斯科一度成为众矢之的。苏联刚开始否认与此事有关，但随后承认应对此负责，同时称飞机当时正在执行间谍任务。
Mr. Obama learned about the plane crash while on a telephone call on Thursday morning with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who had initiated the conversation to talk about the sanctions imposed Wednesday and the broader Ukrainian crisis. Near the end of the call, Mr. Putin mentioned early reports that were just emerging about a plane going down in Ukraine.
周四上午，奥巴马在与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)通话时得知飞机坠毁的消息。此次通话由普京发起，目的是谈论于周三实施的制裁以及总体上的乌克兰危机，通话即将结束时，普京提到了刚刚出现的关于一架飞机在乌克兰坠毁的报道。