Over a 90-minute soccer match, Sweden’s Zlatan Ibrahimovic makes dozens of feints, false starts, and other fine movements in an attempt to free himself from opposing defenders. Each motion requires Ibrahimovic to accelerate, and then decelerate, his 209-pound frame forward or backward, left or right. Each effort takes a toll on his body that Paul Balsom, the head of performance for the Swedish national team, cannot track.
在90分钟的足球比赛中，瑞典队的兹拉坦·伊布拉希莫维奇(Zlatan Ibrahimovic)做了几十次佯攻和假装起跑的细致动作来摆脱对方防守队员。每个动作都要求伊布拉希莫维奇加速、然后减速，他209磅（约合94.8公斤）的身体需要前后左右摇摆。所有的动作都会对他的身体造成伤害，而瑞典国家队的体能训练主管保罗·鲍尔松(Paul Balsom)却不能追踪这些动作。
“Really, football is all about those movements,” said Balsom, who is responsible for keeping Ibrahimovic on the field and out of the trainer’s room. “We’re not getting enough information.”
“其实，足球的关键是这些动作，”鲍尔松说。他的责任是把伊布拉希莫维奇留在足球场上，而不是训练室里。“我们得到的信息还不够。” 
Soon, Balsom and other sports scientists will get the data they crave. On July 7, FIFA issued a memorandum announcing the approval of wearable electronic performance and tracking systems in matches. FIFA’s approval came two months after the International Football Association Board amended its laws to allow the use of the tracking devices, called EPTS, on principle — on the condition that they not endanger player safety and that information is not relayed to coaches during matches. (Halftime is another matter: “What the teams do in the locker room is up to them,” said Lukas Brud, the Association Board secretary.)
很快，鲍尔松等体育科学家们将得到他们极度渴望的数据。7月7日，国际足联(FIFA)发布了一个备忘录，宣布允许在比赛中使用可穿戴的电子体能和追踪设备(EPTS)。两个月前，国际足球联合理事会(International Football Association Board)修改规定，原则上允许使用EPTS追踪设备，但是有两个条件：一是这些设备不能危害球员的安全，二是不能在比赛期间把数据转发给教练（中场休息另说。理事会秘书卢卡斯·布鲁德[Lukas Brud]说，“球队在更衣室做什么由他们自己决定”）。
With clubs and teams around the world increasingly interested in data and advanced statistics, the rule change could have wide-ranging effects on international soccer. Already, information on distance covered and total workload informs everything from training methods and player valuations to lineup decisions and substitutions. (FIFA seemed to acknowledge the value of the data in its announcement, which banned the sale or even the sharing of the information with third parties.)
世界各地的俱乐部和球队对数据和高级统计学越来越感兴趣，这项规定的改变因此可能会对国际足球带来广泛影响。关于跑动距离和总运动量的信息已经开始影响训练方式、球员评估、阵容选择和换人等所有决策（国际足联似乎在声明中承认了这些数据的价值，禁止向第三方出售或分享这些信息）。
Previously, players could wear devices in training but only in-stadium camera systems tracked them during games. These optical-based systems provided information including player location, speed and distance traveled, but the sampling frequency and the filtering processes prevented the gathering of more refined data or the blending of the data collected by different systems into a coherent narrative.
以前，球员能在训练中佩戴监测设备，但是在比赛中，追踪他们的只有体育场内的摄像头。这些光学设备能提供球员位置、跑动速度和跑动距离等信息，但是采样频率和过滤流程限制了收集数据的精确度， 不同系统收集的数据也无法整合得连贯、一致。
“You try to line it up, and you hope that it matches up pretty well, but you’re never really sure,” said Dave Tenney, the Seattle Sounders’ sports science and performance manager.
“你努力把数据连起来，希望它能匹配得非常好，但你永远也不能完全确定，”西雅图海湾人(Seattle Sounders)的体育科学和体能训练主管戴夫·坦尼(Dave Tenney)说。
Wearable systems that include accelerometers and gyroscopes in addition to GPS trackers can provide everything optical systems do as well as information on metabolic power, jumps, accelerations and more. The ability to do that in real time, or to assess a player’s performance over anything from an hourlong workout to a 90-minute game shift to an entire season could be invaluable.
可穿戴设备除了包括GPS追踪器，还包括加速计和陀螺仪，它能提供光学追踪设备能提供的所有信息以及关于代谢能力、跳跃和加速等方面的信息。它能实时监测，还能评估球员在各种时间段的表现——一小时长的锻炼、90分钟的比赛、甚至整个赛季——所以它的价值不可估量。
“Matches were the one big hole you had in your analysis,” said Jeff Agoos, the vice president for competition at Major League Soccer. “And that’s the biggest piece of the week.”
“比赛是分析中的一个大缺口，”美国职业足球大联盟(Major League Soccer)负责比赛的副主席杰夫·阿古斯(Jeff Agoos)说，“而且它是一周中最重要的一部分。”
A small group of teams have already put the technology to work. While officials from each respective association, league or competition must vote on whether to allow wearable technology in matches, seven teams at the recent Women’s World Cup — including the victorious United States — had devices approved for use before the tournament.
少数几个球队已经开始使用这种技术。虽然每个足球协会、联盟或赛事组织的官员必须投票表决是否允许在比赛中使用可穿戴设备，但是前不久女足世界杯上的七支球队——包括获胜的美国队——在联赛前已经批准使用这种设备。
Their devices are worn at the top of the back, held in place by a compression shirt that looks a bit like a sports bra and is worn under the uniform. When the German men’s national team won the World Cup in 2014, it used a system made by Adidas. Two other leading companies in the field are Catapult and GPSports, both based in Australia. Catapult has contracts with nearly 100 soccer teams around the world, from colleges and pro clubs to the national teams of the United States and Brazil, while GPSports’ top clients include Chelsea, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid.
她们的设备是穿在背部上侧的，由一个穿在队服里面的有点像运动文胸的紧身内衣固定。2014年，德国国家男子足球队赢得世界杯冠军时使用了阿迪达斯(Adidas)的一个监测系统。这一领域的另外两个龙头是Catapult和GPSports，这两家公司都在澳大利亚。Catapult和世界各地的近100支足球队签订了合约，从大学足球队、职业足球俱乐部到美国和巴西国家队，而GPSports的顶级客户包括切尔西、拜仁慕尼黑和皇家马德里。
The International Football Association Board’s ruling creates the option for more widespread adoption of the technology, but so far even forward-thinking leagues have expressed caution.
国际足球联合理事会的新规定为这种技术获得更广泛的应用创造了机会，但是到目前为止，连最具前瞻性的足球联盟也表示警惕。
“My sense is that it may be an off-season project, but things are moving very quickly,” said Will Kuntz, the director of player relations and competition for M.L.S., which has previously shown a willingness to be at the leading edge of technical innovations like goal-line technology.
“我的感觉是它可以在非赛季时使用，但是情况变化得很快，”美国职业足球大联盟负责球员关系和比赛的主管威尔·孔茨(Will Kuntz)说。之前，该联盟曾表现出要站在技术创新（比如球门线技术）前沿的意愿。
The league’s new collective bargaining agreement did include a provision for the league to approve individual devices in consultation with the players union, but teams’ requiring players to wear the technology in matches is a separate issue. While Seattle’s Tenney gets about 95 percent compliance during training sessions, he said he anticipated it would be more difficult to convince players to wear the devices in games.
美国职业足球大联盟的新集体谈判协议规定，联盟必须在与球员工会协商后才能批准使用个人设备，但是球队要求球员在比赛中穿戴这种设备是另外一回事。虽然西雅图海湾人的主管坦尼说，在训练中，95%的球员同意穿戴，但他预计，劝说球员在比赛中穿戴这种设备会更困难。
Nor are the systems foolproof. GPS-based devices like the Adidas miCoach and Catapult’s GNSS-based (for global navigation satellite system) monitors rely on satellites for tracking data. Stadiums with closed roofs or roofs that overhang playing fields can interfere with the ability to lock on to individual units. Catapult said that it was developing a local positioning system using radio-frequency identification technology and in-stadium nodes to avoid these issues, but it costs around $50,000 to install. Barry McNeill, the company’s chief executive for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, said that while GPS was accurate to about 20 centimeters, the local systems were accurate to five centimeters.
这些设备也不是非常精确。以GPS为基础的设备(比如阿迪达斯的miCoach）和Catapult的以GNSS（全球导航卫星系统[global navigation satellite system]）为基础的监测器都是依靠卫星来追踪数据。在带有封闭式屋顶或覆盖运动场的屋顶的体育馆，它们的定位追踪能力可能会受到影响。Catapult说它正在开发一种局域定位系统，使用无线电频率识别技术和体育场馆内的节点来避免这些问题，但是它的安装费在五万美元左右。该公司负责欧洲、中东和非洲的首席执行官巴里·麦克尼尔(Barry McNeill)说，虽然GPS的精确度在20厘米左右，但是局域系统的精确度可达5厘米。
Finally, in a sporting environment where knowledge can lead to a competitive advantage, there is always the concern that rival teams will try to steal data. But for many sport scientists, including Balsom, that is not a concern. In addition to his work with Sweden, Balsom works with Leicester City of the Premier League, and he said that while some of the bigger Premier League teams are more protective of their information, “I really don’t know what they could do with our data.”
最后一点，在体育界，信息可能带来竞争优势，所以人们总是担心对手球队想窃取数据。但是鲍尔松等很多体育科学家们并不担心这一点。除了为瑞典国家队服务，鲍尔松还为英国超级联赛(Premier League)的莱切斯特城队(Leicester City)服务。他说，虽然英超的一些较大的球队更注意保护自己的信息，但“我真的不知道我们的数据对他们有什么用”。
“At Leicester, we have a very open-door policy,” he said. “We’ll share everything, because we feel that by sharing our information people can come back and ask if we’ve thought about this or that.”
“在莱切斯特城球队，我们的政策很开放，”他说，“我们会分享所有信息，因为我们觉得，通过分享信息，人们能回来询问我们是否想到了这一点或那一点。”
M.L.S. goes further, giving each team access to anonymized data from every other league team. Currently, that includes only optical data, but including match data from the same wearable systems that have been used in training will only increase the possibilities of finding insights.
美国职业足球大联盟更为开放，允许每支球队获得大联盟中所有其他球队的匿名数据。目前只包括光学数据，但是把目前已用于训练的相同可穿戴设备的比赛数据也包含进来只会增加获得深刻发现的可能性。
“This has given us the tools to go out and look at a million different things,” Kuntz said. “It might turn out that most of them don’t have any correlation to success, but even if one of them does, it’s really exciting.”
“这让我们能够查看无数种不同的数据，”孔茨说，“最后的结果可能是，大部分数据与成功没有任何关系，但是哪怕只有一个有关系，也将令人十分兴奋。”