THE holiday season brings many challenges, from the practical (what to give your boss) to the emotional (what to give your boss that will kill him in his sleep).
假日时节总是会带来很多难题，不管是实质性的难题（该送些什么给你的老板）还是情绪上的难题（送些什么给你的老板能让他一睡不醒）。
Yes, the proper Christmas spirit can be difficult to get right — much less display — especially when trying to figure out how to dress for the gantlet of holiday parties if, as is often the case, you have to go to one directly from work.
是的，要保持圣诞精神有时很难把握——而要表现出来更是难上加难——比如穿什么去参加那一连串节日聚会，尤其那些你经常是要一下班就直接赶过去的聚会。
This particular quandary has intensified with the advent of a new directive, increasingly common on invitations, urging festive attire. It’s not black tie, it’s not business dress, and it’s definitely not come as you are. But what is “festive,” exactly?
这种特殊的困境现在变得更加严峻，因为在邀请函中越来越普遍地出现一条新的指令，就是要求穿得有节日气氛。不能打黑领带，也不能穿商务装，当然也肯定不能由你随便爱穿什么就穿什么。但究竟怎样才算是“节日气氛”呢？
“It doesn’t mean anything,” said Jennifer Gilbert, the founder of Save the Date, a New York special events company. “That’s the whole problem. So many people put that on invitations now, and no one really knows what it means. Well, women do. But 9 times out of 10, you say ‘festive attire’ and guys show up in a blazer, the shirt they wore to work, unbuttoned and without the tie, and jeans. So it ends up being the opposite of festive.”
“它没有什么具体的意思，”纽约一家特别活动组织公司“拯救特别日子”(Save the Date)的创始人珍妮弗·吉尔伯特(Jennifer Gilbert)说。“这就是问题所在。很多人现在都在邀请函上写上这一条，但没有人真的知道它指的是什么。好吧，女士们的确知道。不过，当你一说‘节日气氛’，十次有九次男士们都会穿着一件运动上衣出现，里面是他们上班时穿的衬衣，不系钮扣，也不打领带，下面穿着牛仔裤。于是结果也就变成了反节日气氛。”
The “festive” predicament is familiar even to those in the fashion business, where outré clothing is celebrated more on mannequins than on management. But while designers don’t always have the most practical concerns in mind (they’re artists, O.K.?), it turns out that men’s fashion is chockablock with stylish answers.
即使是时尚产业中的人，也时常会遇到这种“节日气氛”的困境，因为在这个圈子，奇装异服穿在时装模特身上会被称道，而穿在行政人员身上就未必如此了。不过，虽然设计师不总是从实用的角度进行设计（他们毕竟是艺术家，好吗？），但事实上，现在的男装足以解决任何风格的问题。
The three-piece suit is a good example, especially one in a fabric that has a little extra dash: a bold houndstooth, or a colorful tweed, like those in the Phineas Cole line at Paul Stuart. The faint unease of being in costume that can keep a man from putting on a three-piece on an ordinary day makes it ideal for the holidays. The same goes for classically tailored suits and jackets made in bold or unusual fabrics, like the magnified tartans that Thom Browne used this season.
三件套西装就是个很好的例子，特别是那些有一点特别花纹的面料：亮眼的犬牙纹，或者色彩丰富的花格呢，比如保罗·斯图尔特(Paul Suart)的“Phineas Cole”系列。在平常日子里，男士们会避免穿三件套，因为会隐隐觉得自己好像在穿戏服，而在节假日里，这种感觉却恰如其分。同样道理，那些用夸张或者特别面料制作的经典剪裁西装或夹克也一样适用，比如桑姆·布郎尼(Thom Browne)在这一季所用的大格子花呢。
Some clothes answer the question almost literally: suits and jackets that are plain except for the black satin lapels stolen right off a tuxedo. And even a well-tailored suit in a solid color can walk the line between business and formal when paired with a bow tie (in any color but black).
也有一些衣服本身几乎就可以直接解决这些难题：西装和夹克是显得单调，但可以配上直接从燕尾服上偷来的黑色绸缎翻领。即使是精细剪裁的单色西装，只要配上领结（除黑色以外的颜色）就可以在商务装和礼服之间找到微妙平衡。
“It’s actually a really good way to expand your range, because the rules of what’s acceptable are much looser,” said Alex Badia, the men’s wear editor of Women’s Wear Daily. “It’s the one time of year you can be a little funny or silly and get away with it. I’m not saying you should wear a Christmas sweater. But you can take liberties with other traditional heritage pieces of tailored clothing, like plaid pants or a suit worn with a contrasting vest in a nice color, which do look festive but which you can still get away with at the office.”
“其实这是一种拓宽穿衣风格很好的方法，因为现今的着装规则已经宽松了很多，”《每日女装》(Women’s Wear Daily)的男装编辑亚历克斯·巴迪亚(Alex Badia)说，“这是一年中唯一能让你穿得有点滑稽或傻气但又能够全身而退的时间。我不是说你应该穿一件圣诞卫衣。不过你大可以穿其他剪裁精致的传统经典单品，比如格子裤，或者在西装里搭配一件颜色对比强烈但又漂亮的马甲，这样看起来很有节日气氛，但你在办公室里穿着也能说得过去。”
Such garments are not conservative office attire, but they send a message that you’re doing something fun later, which at least gets your co-workers wondering.
这样的打扮不是传统的办公室装束，但它们传达出了一种信息：你一会儿会去哪里找点乐子，这至少会让你的同事们好奇一下。
AND unlike a tuxedo, they are fit for all kinds of parties and occasions, depending on how much you dress them up or down. You might look at a Marc Jacobs synthetic jacquard camouflage sport coat and think, “When would I wear that?” The answer: surprisingly often (just not so often that people get tired of it). Moreover, with the borders eroding on formal wear as well, many of these clothes can double as cheeky black-tie wear — or for when the dress code is “black tie optional,” which may well be the only code more confusing than “festive.”
而且，和燕尾服不同，它们在所有的派对和各种场合中都适用，只是取决于你搭配得更正式还是更随意。你可能会看着一件马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)的合成纤维印花迷彩运动外套在想，“我什么时候才会穿到这个呢？”答案是：你穿到它的时间会意想不到得多（只是不要穿得太频繁，以免人们对它感到厌倦）。而且，随着正装的界线越来越模糊，这些衣服有很多都能一衣两用：可以在要求穿半正式礼服的场合穿，也可以在“可随意选择是否穿半正式礼服”的场合穿，后者很可能是唯一一种比“节日气氛”更令人迷惑的着装要求。
“I am finding that formal wear is more important than ever,” said Alan Maleh, the founder of a new men’s style magazine, Man of the World, who added that he recently wore a Thom Browne bright plaid suit in lieu of a tuxedo to a couple’s 40th anniversary party. “It’s really crossing all the boundaries. Guys are really stepping it up. Me, I tend to like something that makes an impact in a unique but classical way, like a bold plaid jacket with navy tux pants and a simple bow tie.”
“我现在发现正装是前所未有地重要，”一本新创刊的男性时尚杂志《世界男士》(Man of the World)的创始人阿兰·马勒(Alan Maleh)这样说道。他还说，他最近在出席一对夫妇结婚40周年纪念的派对时将一件桑姆·布郞尼的亮色格子西装当燕尾服穿了。“它确实突破了一切界限。男人们现在真的是很敢穿。我的话，我比较喜欢独特而优雅的服饰，比如粗格纹夹克配海军蓝礼服裤，再加一个简单的领结。”
Certainly a main attraction of the festive look is the flexibility of many of the clothes that fall into the category (if a suit feels as if it is too much, wear only the jacket or the pants, paired with something more subdued), an advantage that does not extend to plain business suits.
肯定的是，节日气氛打扮最吸引人的一点是很多这一类衣服都很灵活百搭（如果穿一整套西装显得太过严肃，那就只穿西装外套或者西装裤，再搭配一件比较休闲的衣服），而普通商务西装就不具备这样的优点。
“A man doesn’t want to look like he’s wearing a party suit,” said Eric Jennings, the men’s fashion director of Saks Fifth Avenue, which came up with a program this fall, called Formal Remix, to help men make more-stylish choices for their evening engagements. “But what most guys do is swap out the suit pants for jeans and keep the jacket on. They’re not fooling anyone.”
“男人不想让自己看起来像穿着晚宴西装一样，”萨克斯第五大道精品百货店(Saks Fifth Avenue)的男装总监埃里克·詹宁斯(Eric Jennings)这样说道。萨克斯第五大道去年秋天举办了一个活动，叫“Formal Remix”（正装混搭），意在帮助男士们选择更有格调的服装去参加晚间聚会。“但是，大多数男士做的只是把西装裤换成牛仔裤，还穿着西装外套。他们这样谁都骗不了。”
Mr. Browne agreed. “With our more classic suits, we sell them together,” he said, referring to the industry practice of “nesting” a suit, or selling it as one unit. “But with suits in bolder fabrics, we sell them separately so guys can get one or the other. The funny thing is, most guys end up buying both.”
布郞尼先生表示同意：“我们比较经典的西装，都是整套出售的。”这是业界的常规做法。“而面料更大胆的西装，我们会单件出售，这样男士们可以只买上衣或只买裤子。有趣的是，大部分人最后还是把整套都买下了。”
Though a go-for-broke jacket, pants or suit may be the clearest expression of celebratory spirit, the look can also be achieved à la MacGyver, with nothing but the accessories you already have in your bureau, like that too-vivid hat or tie you never wear. Or wad up one of those crazy socks you received last Christmas and turn it into a pocket square.
虽然说专门去买一件夹克、一条裤子或者一套西装可以最清晰地表达节庆气氛，但你也可以用简单的方式来实现这个目的——利用你衣柜里已有的配饰，比如因为颜色太过鲜艳而从没戴过的帽子或者领带，或者你去年圣诞节收到的夸张的袜子，把它折一折，改成口袋方巾。
“Yesterday, a co-worker came to work in a nice black suit, white T-shirt and what I thought was a polka-dot pocket square,” Mr. Badia said. “After work, he changed into an evening shirt, and the pocket square was actually a bow tie. He had to go to a Christmas party, and he really figured it out.”
“昨天，一个同事来上班，穿着一件漂亮的黑色西装，白色T恤，还配上了一块圆点口袋方巾——至少我一开始以为是方巾，”巴迪亚说。“下班后，他换了一件晚宴衬衫，而那块口袋方巾其实是一个领结。他要去一个圣诞派对，而他真的想出了好办法。”
And if you are having a party and want to goad men into dressing up, Ms. Gilbert has some advice. Put a bit of humor in the directive: “Like, ‘Come on, guys, step it up!’ or ‘Look fabulous!’ ” she offered. Or make it competitive. “Say there’s a prize for the most elegantly dressed man,” she said. “Guys are so competitive. You wouldn’t believe the things I’ve seen C.E.O.’s do to win a $3 glow stick.”
而如果你在主办一个派对，并且想鼓励男士们穿得高调一些，那吉尔伯特女士就有一些建议。就是在着装要求上来一点幽默：“比如，‘来吧，先生们，大胆一些！’或者说‘好好打扮一下！’”她提议说。也可以来个比赛。“就说穿着最优雅的男士会有奖，”她说。“男人很好胜。你不会相信我看见过那些CEO们为了争一个3美元的荧光棒都会做些什么。”
Now that’s the holiday spirit.
那可就真算是有节日气氛了。