Via dei Fori Imperiali, a multilane artery running through the heart of Rome, is typically a frenzy of swerving Vespas, zipping Smart cars and honking Fiat taxis.
帝国广场大道(Via dei Fori Imperiali)是一条贯穿罗马市中心的多车道交通大动脉，总有一群拐来拐去的黄蜂牌摩托车(Vespa)、开得飕飕的Smart汽车和响着喇叭的菲亚特(Fiat)出租车疯狂驶过。
But Mayor Ignazio Marino is seeking to transform the avenue to something calmer, where Gucci loafers and sensible sneakers would rule.
但罗马市长伊尼亚齐奥·马里诺(Ignazio Marino)想把这条大道转变成更加宁静的场所，让穿着古驰(Gucci)乐福鞋和闲适运动鞋的人自由漫步。
Mr. Marino’s plan to ban private traffic on the roadway, which bisects a vast archaeological site, from the central Piazza Venezia to the Colosseum, has prompted grousing and histrionic debate over a project that conservators say would solidify the world’s largest urban archaeological area.
从威尼斯广场(Piazza Venezia)到圆形竞技场(Colosseum)，这条道路将一大片考古遗址一分为二。马里诺禁止私家车使用这条大道的计划，引发了怨言和戏剧性的辩论，文物保护者称，该项目能够巩固世界上最大的城市考古区。
This being Rome, the first high-impact initiative of his seven-week-old administration, which goes into effect on Saturday, has provoked its share of unfavorable comparisons with the overweening ambitions of emperors past. “The mayor’s job is not to pass into history, but to work for his citizens,” said Luciano Canfora, a professor of classics at the University of Bari. “We already had Nero, that’s more than enough.”
这是马里诺上任七周后首个冲击力较高的举措，将在周六生效。既然这是罗马，难免有人拿此举和昔日帝王唯我独尊的野心做令人不悦的比较。“市长的工作不是要让自己被载入史册，而是要为他的市民服务。”巴里大学(University of Bari)古典文学教授卢西亚诺·坎福拉(Luciano Canfora)说。“我们已经有过暴君尼禄(Nero)，那已经让人够受了。”
He predicted the plan would “torture” other Romans with “catastrophic” traffic jams.
他预计该计划将以“灾难性的”交通堵塞“折磨”其他罗马人。
To the mayor, though, the project is the cornerstone of a bigger vision that plays on Rome’s strengths and uniqueness to develop a strategy for the city based on environmental and cultural sustainability.
然而对市长来说，该项目只是一个更大愿景的基石，目的是利用罗马的优势和独特性，从环境和文化可持续性出发，为该市拟定开发出一项战略。
“I want to change what was a highly trafficked street into a walk into history,” Mr. Marino, 58, said in an interview at his offices on the Capitoline Hill, which overlooks the Roman Forum. “It’s part of a dream of giving back to Romans, Italians and people from around the world this incredible place where the history of the Western world developed.”
“我想把这条交通流量很大的大道转变为一条富有历史底蕴的步行街，”58岁的马里诺在办公室接受采访时说。“这属于一个梦想的一部分，目的是把这片令人惊叹的西方世界发源地送还给罗马人、意大利人和世界各地的人。”他的办公室位于能够俯瞰古罗马广场(Roman Forum)的卡比托利欧山上。
Of course, modern Romans, and especially the neighborhood’s residents, have more practical concerns. Most have to do with the anticipated spillover effect of closing a broad avenue used by as many as 1,600 motorists an hour during peak times of day, according to city statistics.
当然，现代罗马人，特别是附近居民，有着更加实际的担忧。多数担忧涉及关闭这条宽阔大道预期将产生的溢出效应。根据市政统计数据，这条街道在每天高峰时间每小时就有1600多名司机驾车通过。
Residents’ associations and local shopkeepers fret about aggravating the traffic congestion that is already as quintessentially Roman as the city’s famed cupolas, making their lives even more “invivibile,” a common Italian expression used by those complaining about life in the capital.
居民协会和当地店主担心，交通堵塞已经如罗马著名的圆顶建筑一样成为该市的典型象征，而此举会加剧交通堵塞，让他们的生活更加“invivibile”（不可忍受），意大利人常用这个词来抱怨首都的生活。
“We will block the streets, set up barricades,” pledged Luciana Gasparini, the president of Via Merulana per L’Esquilino, a neighborhood group that is organizing a protest against the project. (But, in Roman fashion, it will take place in September, once people have returned from their August holidays.)
“我们将封锁街道，设置路障，”卢恰娜·加斯帕里尼(Luciana Gasparini)承诺道。她是“埃斯奎利诺区梅卢拉纳大道”组织(Via Merulana per L’Esquilino)主席，这是一个社区团体，正在组织反对该项目的示威。（但依照罗马风格，示威将在9月份举行，8月罗马人要度假。）
Franco Aldini, a tailor with a shop on Via Labicana, complained that his business had already dropped since street work began in preparation for the closing. Mr. Aldini said he was considering suing the city for damages if the situation dragged on. “The mayor can’t decide from one day to the next to lock down a neighborhood,” he said.
裁缝佛朗哥·阿尔迪尼(Franco Aldini)在拉比卡纳大道(Via Labicana)有一家店，他抱怨说，自从准备封路的施工启动以来，他的生意就开始下滑。阿尔迪尼说，他正在考虑，如果这种情况持续下去，他可能会起诉市政府，要求得到赔偿。“市长不能心血来潮地决定封闭一个街区，”他说。
But it seems that the mayor can, and did, forging ahead with a project that was a centerpiece of his campaign. In this first phase, the tract of Via dei Fori Imperiali closest to the Colosseum will be off limits to private vehicles, but not to buses and taxis. A rather optimistic simulation is visible on the city’s transportation Web site.
但似乎市长可以，而且确实执行了这个曾是他竞选核心内容的项目。在这个第一阶段，帝国广场大道靠近竞技场的路段将禁止私家车驶入，但公交车和出租车可以通行。在该市的交通网站上可以看到一个相当乐观的模拟。
The final goal is to make the Via dei Fori Imperiali a pedestrian area from one end to the other, and to finance the project with subsidies from the European Union.
最终目标是让帝国广场大道从头到尾成为一条步行街，并利用欧盟补贴为项目买单。
“I think Rome needed a kind of shock,” said the mayor, a former transplant surgeon, using the analogy of a person receiving emergency treatment. “The city had been sleeping and needed to wake up. After the shock, you go on to live a long, productive life.”
市长以前是一名器官移植医生，他用急救方法比喻说，“我认为罗马需要某种电击。这座城市一直在沉睡，需要被唤醒。在电击之后，你将迎来一个长寿而富有成果的人生。”
Mr. Marino spent nearly 20 years of his career as a doctor in the United States before returning to Rome in 2006, when he plunged into politics and was elected to the Senate with the center-left Democratic Party. This year, he decided not to run again at a national level but instead turned his sights on Rome, the city he “loves most in the world,” he said. Mr. Marino easily beat Gianni Alemanno, the incumbent, center-right mayor, in June.
马里诺在美国做了近20年医生，他在2006年回到罗马，投身政治，并作为中间偏左的民主党的候选人当选参议员。今年他决定不在国家层面再度参选，而是把目光转向了罗马，他说，这是他“在世界上最热爱的”城市。6月，马里诺轻松击败了中间偏右的原市长詹尼·阿莱曼诺(Gianni Alemanno)。
Mr. Marino cheerfully acknowledged that he would be “crucified” by citizens in the short term, but said it was worth fighting for his “vision of what I want this city to be in 30 years.” He added, “No one will remember who the mayor was in 2013, but everyone will appreciate the pedestrian area.”
马里诺坦然承认，短期内他将被市民们“钉上十字架”，但他说，为了实现他对“这个城市在30年后的愿景”，值得为之抗争。他补充说，“没人将记得谁曾是2013年的市长，但每个人都会喜欢步行街。”
Via dei Fori Imperiali was built during the 1920s by Benito Mussolini, the Fascist dictator, as a marching avenue for triumphant troops, linking his palace in Piazza Venezia to the Colosseum, the most recognizable symbol of ancient Roman power. It was an ambitious project that destroyed a densely populated area of central Rome, and also separated the Roman Forum from the imperial forums of Trajan, Augustus, Caesar and Nerva.
帝国广场大道是在20世纪20年代法西斯独裁者本尼托·墨索里尼(Benito Mussolini)统治期间建成的，作为一条举行阅兵仪式的大道，把他在威尼斯广场的宫殿与竞技场连接起来。竞技场是古罗马实力的最具代表性的象征。这个雄心勃勃的项目强拆了罗马市中心人口密集的社区，而且还把罗马广场与图拉真广场(Trajan)、奥古斯都广场(Augustus)、凯撒广场(Caesar)和涅尔瓦广场(Nerva)构成的古罗马帝国广场群隔开。
Conservators and municipal and state archaeology officials have long nurtured the wish to reconnect the forums. They have also been keen to limit the effect of traffic on the monuments, including vibrations and smog, “which is eating away at the surface of the monuments, like those terrible photos showing how cigarettes eat away at one’s lungs,” said Rossella Rea, the culture ministry official responsible for the Colosseum.
长久以来，文物保护者、市政和国家级的考古官员一直抱有重新连通这些广场的愿望。他们还一直热衷于限制交通对古建筑的影响，包括振动和烟雾。负责竞技场的文化部官员萝塞拉·雷(Rossella Rea)说，“烟雾正在侵蚀古建筑的表面，就像那些显示香烟毁掉一个人肺部的可怕照片那样。”
But in a city where history is as stratified as lasagna, some argue that the Via dei Fori Imperiali has its own notable, equally valid past and so should be preserved.
不过，一些人主张，在一个历史如千层面般层层堆积的城市，帝国广场大道同样具有历史价值，因此也应该得到保护。
“It is the result of an operation undertaken under Fascism that changed the face of the city, like the 19th-century boulevards that changed Paris,” said Professor Canfora. “No one would dare to ask to turn back French history,” he added, so why “think that you can return Rome to an archaeological site.”
坎福拉教授说，“帝国广场大道是法西斯主义时期的工程成果，它改变了这座城市的面貌，就像19世纪的林荫大道改变了巴黎的面貌一样。”他补充说，“没有人敢提出逆转法国历史”，那么，为什么“有人认为自己能让罗马重新成为一片考古遗址？”
Actually, the mayor said he hoped that the road closing would help modify Romans’ driving habits, by encouraging more people to leave their vehicles at home. He said about 60 percent of Romans travel less than five kilometers a day — roughly three miles — to get to work.
实际上，市长说的是，他希望封路将有助于改变罗马人的驾驶习惯，鼓励更多的人把车留在家里。他说，60%左右的罗马人每天上班路程不到五公里。
“As a scientist, I find that numbers give a more clear and precise picture,” he said, and gave a few facts: 970 of 1,000 adult Romans have cars, compared with 340 in London, and the average speed of public transportation in Rome is less than 9 miles per hour. “One of the slowest in the Western world,” he said. “You could run faster.”
“作为一名科学家，我发现，数字能给出更加清晰和确切的描述。”他说。他列举了一些事实：每千名罗马人的汽车保有人数是970人，与之相比，伦敦的人数是340人，罗马公交的平均车速还不到每小时九英里（约合14公里）。他说，“这是西方世界里最慢的公交速度，连跑步都比公交更快。”