A THREE-BEDROOM APARTMENT IN A ST. JOHN’S WOOD TOWNHOUSE
待售房产：圣约翰伍德区(St. John's Wood)一处联排别墅中的一套三卧室公寓
$2.3 MILLION (£1.395 MILLION)
价格：230万美元（139.5万英镑，约合人民币1425.3万元）
This duplex occupies the third and fourth floors of a Victorian townhouse on Alma Square, a quiet area near the High Street in St. John’s Wood. The house was built around 1850 and converted into apartments in 1985. This one was updated last year; its lower floor includes a living room with a wood-burning stove, and a dining room with a gas fireplace. Both rooms have accent walls with ornate gold-and-cream wallpaper by Zoffany. Next to the dining room, the kitchen has a recycled-glass backsplash made by Fired Earth in dark reds and rust browns. A bathroom with a shower stall is next to the kitchen.
这套复式公寓，位于阿尔玛广场(Alma Square)一栋维多利亚式联排别墅中的三楼及四楼。那片广场是圣约翰伍德区商业街(Hight Street)附近一个安静的地带。这处房屋大约建于1850年，并于1985年被改建为多套公寓。在售公寓去年刚刚翻修过；楼下有一间带燃木壁炉的客厅，以及一间带燃气壁炉的餐厅。这两个房间里都有贴着金黄与乳白色卓梵尼(Zoffany)墙纸的高光墙(accent walls)。餐厅旁边的厨房里，有一面由Fired Earth公司制造的深红与锈褐色相间的再生玻璃后防溅板。厨房隔壁有一间带淋浴间的浴室。
Upstairs, all three bedrooms are tucked under the low, sloping ceilings at the top of the house. Working fireplaces and built-in wardrobes evoke the Victorian period. The rooms share a hall bath, which has a corner bathtub. Although the apartment doesn’t face Alma Square directly, the owners of this apartment have a key to its communal garden. Abbey Road, made famous by the Beatles, is a block away, and Regent’s Park is a 15-minute walk. The High Street has many independent shops and restaurants, and the St. John’s Wood Underground station on the Jubilee line gives easy access to Bond Street, the City of London and Canary Wharf. Heathrow Airport is about a half an hour away via public transit.
楼上，三间卧室全部挤在房屋最上方的低矮斜顶天花板下。几座还可使用的壁炉和几处嵌壁式衣柜，唤醒人们对维多利亚时期的记忆。这几间卧室共用着一处配有转角浴缸的大堂卫生间。尽管这套公寓并非正对着阿尔玛广场，但公寓的几位业主有一把可以通往一座共用花园的钥匙。因披头士乐队(the Beatles)而出名的艾比路(Abbey Road)就在一条街区之外，而走路到摄政公园(Regent's Park)也只需15分钟。这条商业街上有许多独立商店和餐厅；而在圣约翰伍德地铁站搭乘朱比利线(Jubilee line)，就可轻松到达邦德街(Bond Street)、伦敦金融城(City of London)和金丝雀码头(Canary Wharf)。乘坐公共交通约一个半小时，就可到达希思罗机场(Heathrow Airport)。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
The British property market has become very lively over the last year, said Joseph Selby, a director with CBRE Residential in Canary Wharf, explaining that government subsidies had acted as a stimulus, “adding to the whole feel-good factor that is very evident at the moment.” The market in St. John’s Wood has seen robust price gains in recent years, according to Giles Elliott, an agent for Savills St. John’s Wood. “Prices for prime property have risen by about 45 percent since 2008,” he said, adding that his company was anticipating price increases of 6 percent this year. The housing stock in St. John’s Wood varies quite a bit, with Regency-era townhouses, Italianate villas, high-end modern flats and neo-Gothic houses. Three-bedroom flats range in price from £2.5 million to £5 million ($4.125 million to $8.28 million, at £.061 to the dollar), Mr. Elliot said. The apartment profiled here is priced lower because of its smaller size, according to Laura Richardson of Knight Frank St. John’s Wood, the listing agent.
过去一年来，英国的房地产市场已经变得非常活跃了，世邦魏理仕物业顾问有限公司(CBRE Residential)金丝雀码头分部的主管约瑟夫·塞尔比(Joseph Selby)说。他解释道，因为政府补贴已经起到了激励作用，“强化了目前这种显而易见的整体感觉良好的因素。”而据该区第一太平戴维斯公司(Savills)的经纪人吉尔斯·艾略特(Giles Elliott)说，圣约翰伍德区的房地产市场，也见证了近些年强劲的价格上涨势头。他说，“从2008年以来，最优质的房产价格已经上升了大约45%，”他还补充说，他的公司预期今年会有6%的价格增幅。圣约翰伍德区的可售房产种类各异，有摄政时代(Regency-era)的联排别墅、意大利风格的豪华别墅，也有高端的现代公寓和新哥特式房屋。一套带三间卧室的公寓，价格范围从250万英镑至500万英镑（按0.061英镑兑0.1美元的汇率，为412.5万美元至828万美元，约合人民币2595万元至5189万元）不等，艾略特说。本文介绍的这套公寓，因为面积较小，所以价格也较低，代理该房源的经纪人、莱坊国际地产公司(Knight Frank)圣约翰伍德区分部的劳拉·理查森(Laura Richardson)说。
WHO BUYS IN LONDON
谁在伦敦买房
“St. John’s Wood is a very cosmopolitan area,” added Ms. Richardson, citing an American school and a French Lycée in the area as attracting expatriate buyers. In addition, she said, “There have been unprecedented numbers of Chinese buyers recently.”
“圣约翰伍德区是一片非常国际化的区域，”理查森补充道。她列举了该区内的一所美国学校和一所法国公立中学(Lycée)，以吸引移居国外的买家。另外，她说，“近来中国买家的数量前所未有的多。”
International buyers are “certainly more prevalent in the top end of the market,” Mr. Elliot said.
国际买家们“在高端市场中显然更为普遍”，艾略特说。
BUYING BASICS
购房基本条件
Like many London properties, this apartment is being offered as a leasehold transaction, which means it has a renewable long-term lease expiring in 2174. “You’d normally only get a freehold property if it’s a house that hasn’t been split up,” Ms. Richardson said. Transaction costs include a solicitor’s fee, which varies depending on the size and complexity of the transaction; she estimated the fee in this instance at £4,000 or so. The stamp duty also varies depending on purchase price. For properties like this one, priced at £1 million to £2 million, the stamp duty is 5 percent. Most buyers don’t hire their own real estate agent, so the seller’s agent handles negotiations for both sides. But Ms. Richardson said that some foreign buyers hire a relocation agent to find promising properties for them, and they may charge an additional fee. Foreigners can buy without restriction.
正如伦敦的许多房产一样，这套公寓也是一笔租赁权交易。也就是说，这套公寓有一项将于2174年到期的可续型长期租约。“而如果是一栋没被分割的房产，一般你就会得到其永久产权，”理查森说。地产交易成本包括一笔律师费，根据地产交易的规模大小及复杂程度而有所不同。她估计这套公寓的律师费大约为4000英镑（约合人民币41502元）。印花税额也会根据房产的购买价格而不同。凡是类似此套公寓这样，价格在100万英镑至200万英镑（约合人民币1037万元至2075万元）间的房产，要缴纳的印花税为5%。大多数买家不会聘用自己的地产经纪人，所以卖方经纪人会为双方议价。但理查森说，一些外国买家会聘请一位迁居中介(relocation agent)为他们寻找较好的房产。所以这些中介可能会收取一笔额外的费用。外国人购买房产是不受限制的。