There are too many camels in the Bible, out of time and out of place.
在《圣经》里，骆驼在不正确的时间和地点出现了很多次。
Camels probably had little or no role in the lives of such early Jewish patriarchs as Abraham, Jacob and Joseph, who lived in the first half of the second millennium B.C., and yet stories about them mention these domesticated pack animals more than 20 times. Genesis 24, for example, tells of Abraham’s servant going by camel on a mission to find a wife for Isaac.
像亚伯拉罕(Abraham)、雅各(Jacob)和约瑟(Joseph)这样的犹太先祖，生活在公元前两千年里的前5个世纪，那时候骆驼有可能很少或者根本就没有出现在他们的生活中，但跟这些先祖有关的故事，却有20多次提到这种驯养的驮畜。例如《创世记》(Genesis)第24章，讲述了亚伯拉罕的仆人骑着骆驼去完成一项任务：为以撒(Isaac)寻觅一位妻子。
These anachronisms are telling evidence that the Bible was written or edited long after the events it narrates and is not always reliable as verifiable history. These camel stories “do not encapsulate memories from the second millennium,” said Noam Mizrahi, an Israeli biblical scholar, “but should be viewed as back-projections from a much later period.”
这些存在年代错误的内容是生动的证据，表明《圣经》是在它叙述的事件发生很久之后才撰写或编辑的，把它作为可验证的历史来看并不总是靠得住。这些骆驼的故事“并没有讲述公元前第二个千年的记忆”，以色列的圣经学者诺姆·米兹拉希(Noam Mizrahi)说，“而应该被看作晚得多的时代的人对历史的想象。”
Dr. Mizrahi likened the practice to a historical account of medieval events that veers off to a description of “how people in the Middle Ages used semitrailers in order to transport goods from one European kingdom to another.”
米兹拉希博士把这种状况比作在叙述中世纪的事件时出现穿越情况，讲述“中世纪的人如何使用半拖车，在欧洲王国之间运输货物”。
For two archaeologists at Tel Aviv University, the anachronisms were motivation to dig for camel bones at an ancient copper smelting camp in the Aravah Valley in Israel and in Wadi Finan in Jordan. They sought evidence of when domesticated camels were first introduced into the land of Israel and the surrounding region.
对于特拉维夫大学(Tel Aviv University)的两位考古学家来说，年代错误是一种动机，促使他们在以色列阿拉瓦谷的一座古代炼铜遗址和约旦瓦迪费南地区挖掘骆驼的遗骸，以寻找以色列及周边地区何时开始引入驯养骆驼的证据。
The archaeologists, Erez Ben-Yosef and Lidar Sapir-Hen, used radiocarbon dating to pinpoint the earliest known domesticated camels in Israel to the last third of the 10th century B.C. — centuries after the patriarchs lived and decades after the kingdom of David, according to the Bible. Some bones in deeper sediments, they said, probably belonged to wild camels that people hunted for their meat. Dr. Sapir-Hen could identify a domesticated animal by signs in leg bones that it had carried heavy loads.
考古学家埃雷兹•本-优素福(Erez Ben-Yosef)和利达尔•萨皮尔-亨(Lidar Sapir-Hen)利用放射性碳测年技术，查明以色列已知最早的驯养骆驼出现在公元前10世纪的最后30多年——从《圣经》来看，即先祖们生活的时代的数个世纪之后，也是大卫王时代的数十年后。两位考古学家说，更深的沉积物中有一些遗骸，可能属于野骆驼，人们猎杀它们以获取肉食。萨皮尔-亨博士可以识别出哪些动物是驯养的，因为运载重物会在驮畜的腿骨上留下痕迹。
The findings were published recently in the journal Tel Aviv and in a news release from Tel Aviv University. The archaeologists said that the origin of the domesticated camel was probably in the Arabian Peninsula, which borders the Aravah Valley. Egyptians exploited the copper resources there and probably had a hand in introducing the camels. Earlier, people in the region relied on mules and donkeys as their beasts of burden.
《特拉维夫》学报以及特拉维夫大学的一个新闻发布会近日发布了这项研究的结果。考古学家们说，驯养骆驼可能起源于跟阿拉瓦谷接壤的阿拉伯半岛。埃及人在那里开采铜矿资源，有可能在引入骆驼方面发挥了作用。此前，该地区的人们要靠骡子和驴子运载重物。
“The introduction of the camel to our region was a very important economic and social development,” Dr. Ben-Yosef said in a telephone interview. “The camel enabled long-distance trade for the first time, all the way to India, and perfume trade with Arabia. It’s unlikely that mules and donkeys could have traversed the distance from one desert oasis to the next.”
“把骆驼引入我们这个地区是一个非常重大的经济和社会发展。”本-优素福博士在接受电话采访时说。“有了骆驼，远达印度的远程贸易以及跟阿拉伯地区之间的香料贸易才首次成为可能。骡子和驴子驮运货物的距离有限，不太可能在沙漠的两个绿洲之间运货。”
Dr. Mizrahi, a professor of Hebrew culture studies at Tel Aviv University who was not directly involved in the research, said that by the seventh century B.C. camels had become widely employed in trade and travel in Israel and through the Middle East, from Africa as far as India. The camel’s influence on biblical research was profound, if confusing, for that happened to be the time that the patriarchal stories were committed to writing and eventually canonized as part of the Hebrew Bible.
米兹拉希博士是特拉维夫大学研究希伯来文化的教授，没有直接参与这项研究，他说，到了公元前七世纪，在以色列和中东各地，骆驼就已经被广泛使用在从非洲远至印度的贸易和旅行中。骆驼对圣经研究的影响是深远的，还有点让人晕头转向，因为正好是那个时候，人们致力于撰写先祖们的故事；这些故事最终被列为圣典，成为《希伯来圣经》的一部分。
“One should be careful not to rush to the conclusion that the new archaeological findings automatically deny any historical value from the biblical stories,” Dr. Mizrahi said in an email. “Rather, they established that these traditions were indeed reformulated in relatively late periods after camels had been integrated into the Near Eastern economic system. But this does not mean that these very traditions cannot capture other details that have an older historical background.”
“我们应当谨慎，不要草率得出结论，说新的考古发现自动否定了圣经故事的所有历史价值。”米兹拉希博士在一封电子邮件中写道。“实际上，这些证据表明，在骆驼被纳入到近东经济体系之后这样一个相对较晚的时期，人们确实对这些故事进行了重新阐述。但是，这并不意味着这些故事完全不能捕捉到其他具有更古老历史背景的细节。”
Moreover, for anyone who grew up with Sunday school images of the Three Wise Men from the East arriving astride camels at the manger in Bethlehem, whatever uncertainties there may be of that story, at least one thing is clear: By then the camel in the service of human life was no longer an anachronism.
此外，对于从小就在主日学校看到东方三贤士骑着骆驼抵达伯利恒马槽画像的人来说，不管这个故事中存在何种不确定性，至少有一件事是肯定的：在那个时候，骆驼服务于人类生活已经不再是年代错误。