TUNIS — The gunman who massacred 38 foreign tourists at a beachside hotel on Friday trained with a militant group in Libya this year alongside two Tunisians who later killed 22 people at the national museum, security officials confirmed on Tuesday.
突尼斯——突尼斯国家安全官员周二确认，上周五在海滨度假酒店射杀38名外国游客的凶手，今年曾在利比亚境内的一个极端组织受训。同样在那里接受训练的还有之前在国家博物馆射杀22人的两名突尼斯人。
Rafik Chelli, secretary of state for the interior, told The Associated Press that the gunman at the hotel, Seifeddine Rezgui, 24, a graduate of a technical college from central Tunisia, crossed illegally into neighboring Libya in January and trained with an extremist group near the town of Sabratha, in northwestern Libya, near the capital, Tripoli.
突尼斯内政大臣拉菲克·谢利(Rafik Chelli)告诉美联社记者，在酒店行凶的持枪者、24岁的赛义夫丁·雷兹吉(Seifeddine Rezgui)毕业于突尼斯中部一所理工大学。今年1月，他非法进入邻国利比亚境内，在靠近赛普拉泰(Sabratha)镇的一个极端组织里接受训练，赛普拉泰位于利比亚北部，靠近首都的黎波里(Tripoli)。
Tunisian officials have said that the two gunmen who attacked the National Bardo Museum in Tunis in March, killing 21 tourists and a police officer, also crossed into Libya for several weeks of training. Mr. Chelli confirmed that they and Mr. Rezgui had been there at the same time. The gunmen at the museum were killed by security forces.
突尼斯官员表示，今年三月袭击巴尔多国家博物馆（导致21名游客和一名警官死亡）的两名持枪男子，也曾越界进入利比亚境内接受数周的训练。谢利确认这两名凶手和雷兹曾在同一时间出现在利比亚。袭击博物馆的两名凶手被安全部队击毙。
The news that Mr. Rezgui trained in Libya was first reported Monday in the daily El Chourouk, which quoted an anonymous source. Police officials in Kairouan, the city that is home to the college where Mr. Rezgui studied, said Monday that he trained for two years in Libya, but it was not clear whether they had specific information or were repeating news reports.
雷兹吉在利比亚受训的消息，最早由El Chourouk日报报道，该台援引了一位匿名人士提供的信息。凯鲁万市（雷兹吉曾就学的大学所在城市）的警官周一表示，雷兹吉在利比亚接受了两年训练，但目前还不清楚他们是有明确信息，还是在重复媒体之前的报道。
Mr. Rezgui fired on vacationers on their lounge chairs at the beach resort hotel in Sousse, then strode through the hotel complex for about 30 minutes, reloading his assault rifle several times and tossing several grenades, officials and witnesses say. He then walked away on the beach and slipped onto a side street, where the police fatally shot him.
据官员和目击者讲述，雷兹吉先是朝位于苏塞市的这座海滩度假酒店内躺椅上的游客开枪，之后在酒店内四处走动，多次给手中的冲锋枪装弹，还扔出数个手榴弹，全过程持续大约30分钟。之后他离开海滩，溜进一条小巷，在那里被警方击毙。
On the day of the attack, Tunisian officials and the state news agency put the death toll at 39, but the state news agency revised its total to 38 on Tuesday. An additional 39 people were wounded.
袭击事件发生当天，突尼斯官员和国家通讯社统计的受害人数已达39人，但通讯社在周二将人数改为38人。另有39人在这次事件中受伤。
Though not aimed specifically at Britons, Friday’s attack on the hotel complex was Britain’s worst loss of life in a terrorist attack since the July 2005 London bombings. On Friday, a week after the killings, there will be a minute of silence at noon in Britain, and flags will fly at half-staff.
尽管周五在酒店发生的袭击并非特意针对英国人，但这却是自2005年伦敦爆炸事件以来，英国人伤亡最大的一次恐怖袭击事件。本周五，即事发一周后，英国将在午间举行一分钟的降半旗默哀仪式。
Of the 33 victims identified so far, 25 were Britons, one was Belgian, two German, three Irish, one Portuguese and one Russian, the state news agency reported Tuesday. Two foreign tourists remain hospitalized in Tunisia. British officials have said they expect the number of British victims to rise to 30.
突尼斯国家通讯社周二报道，在目前已经确认死亡的33名受害人中，有25名英国人，1名比利时人、2名德国人、3名爱尔兰人、1名葡萄牙人和1名俄罗斯人。有两名外国游客仍在突尼斯的医院接受救治。英国官员已经表示，他们预计英国受害人的总数可能会达到30人。
Four of the most seriously wounded were flown back to Britain on Tuesday by the Royal Air Force, and officials said all of the seriously wounded were now being treated in Britain. The bodies of the dead are expected to be flown back on Wednesday.
4名伤情最重的受害人已经于周二由英国皇家空军的飞机运送回英国。官员们表示目前所有伤员都已经回到英国接受救治。遇难者的遗体计划于周三运送回国。
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain has promised a “full spectrum” response to the Tunisian attacks and to the threat of radical Islam in Britain. On Monday, he called militant Islamist ideology an “existential threat” and said Britain was confronting “the struggle of our generation.”
英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)已经承诺对突尼斯恐怖事件和极端伊斯兰主义在英国制造的威胁采取“全方位”行动。周一，他称激进伊斯兰主义意识形态是“关乎生存的威胁”，并表示英国面对的是“我们这一代人的抗争”。
On Tuesday, Britain began a major counterterrorism exercise in London, planned before the Tunisian killings, based on the Charlie Hebdo killings in Paris in January and a hostage-taking in Sydney, Australia, last December. The exercise is meant to test emergency responses from police and medical services and is being held in an unused London Underground station in the West End theater district.
周二，英国在伦敦举行了大型反恐演习，这是一个在突尼斯事件发生之前已经确定的计划，是因应今年二月在巴黎发生的《查理周刊》(Charlie Hebdo)袭击事件和去年12月在澳大利亚悉尼发生的人质劫持事件。这次演习在剧院林立的伦敦西区一个废弃的地铁站举行，旨在测试警方和医务机构的应急反应能力。
As further tales of horror and heroism emerged — including descriptions of the efforts of hotel employees and others to protect the tourists — British tourists were cutting short or canceling their vacations in Tunisia. At least 4,000 Britons had flown home since the attack, according to officials of the Thomson and First Choice tour companies.
事件中发生的更多恐怖和英勇的故事正渐渐为人所知，包括酒店员工和其他人员如何努力保护游客，与此同时，英国游客正在提前结束或取消他们在突尼斯的行程。据汤姆逊与首选旅行社(Thomson and First Choice)的工作人员透露，袭击事件发生后，至少有4000英国人已经返回英国。
Prime Minister Habib Essid of Tunisia has described Mr. Rezgui as a lone-wolf attacker and has indicated that he had no police record. He was issued a passport last year but had not used it to travel abroad, Mr. Essid said.
突尼斯总理哈比卜·埃西德(Habib Essid )表示雷兹吉是单独行动的袭击者，之前没有任何犯罪记录。埃西德说他在去年取得了护照，但并没有用来出境。
Tunisia’s long border with Libya, much of it desert, is notoriously porous and easily crossed by smugglers and militants.
突尼斯和利比亚的漫长边界线大部分都是沙漠地带，众所周知，那里存在很多漏洞，走私者和激进分子可以轻而易举地越境。