CAIRO — Gunmen in military uniforms attacked an art museum in downtown Tunis on Wednesday, killing 19 people officials said. Security forces later advanced into the museum and killed two gunmen in a firefight, state television reported.
开罗——突尼斯官方称，身着军装的持枪者周三袭击了首都突尼斯市中心的一座艺术博物馆，打死19人。国家电视台报道，安全部队随后冲进博物馆，在交战中杀死了两名枪手。
Prime Minister Habib Essid said in a news conference that security forces killed two gunmen inside the building, the National Bardo Museum, but that two or three accomplices might still be at large. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, but supporters of the militant group Islamic State celebrated the attack in social media postings.
总理哈比卜·埃西德在新闻发布会上通报，安全部队在国家巴尔多博物馆大楼内打死两名枪手，但是可能还有两至三名同谋在逃。没有人立即宣称为此次攻击负责。但是伊斯兰国的支持者在社交媒体上对攻击表示庆祝。
Mr. Essid said that 17 foreign visitors were killed, including Polish, Italian, Spanish and German tourists, and that two Tunisians were killed, one of them a member of the security forces. At least 20 others were injured.
总理埃西德说死者包括17名外国游客，其中包括波兰人、意大利人、西班牙人、德国人，以及两名突尼斯人，其中一人是突尼斯安全部队成员。另有至少20人受伤。
Tunisian officials said earlier that the attackers had killed nine people and taken 10 hostages, but after security forces entered and retook the museum about three hours later, the death toll increased to 19, raising questions about how and when the 10 hostages had died.
突尼斯官员较早前说，攻击者杀了9个人，并劫持了10名人质，但是三小时后在安全部队进入并控制了博物馆后，死亡人数上升至19人，引发外界关注10名人质是何时以及如何被害。
The attack reportedly began around noon or shortly after, at a time when hundreds of visitors were on their way into the museum. Interior ministry officials said the gunmen were armed with grenades and assault riffles.
据报袭击开始于中午时分或之后不久，当时几百名游客正在进入博物馆。内政部官员说，枪手持有手榴弹和步枪。
Helicopters buzzed over the area in the afternoon, and Tunisian state television said they were evacuating people from the area, possible including those injured in the attack.
下午，有直升机出现在事发区域上空。突尼斯国家电视台称，直升机正在从该区域撤出人员，可能包括伤者。
The site, the Bardo National Museum, is near the national Parliament in downtown Tunis. By early afternoon the Parliament building had been evacuated, and police officers surrounded the area in a standoff with the gunmen.
巴尔多国家博物馆在突尼斯市中心，靠近国会。午后，国会已经疏散。警方包围了事发地区，与劫匪对峙。
The identity and motivation of the attackers were not immediately clear.
袭击者的身份和动机尚不明。
Officials said it was possible that the Parliament, rather than the museum, was the original intended target of the attack; some reports said that legislators were discussing an antiterrorism law on Wednesday.
官员称，议会可能原本是袭击目标。一些报道说，议员们周三正在讨论一部反恐怖主义法案。
Tunisia was the country where the Arab Spring revolts against autocratic rule began four years ago.
四年前反独裁的阿拉伯之春就是在突尼斯发源的。
Of all the countries affected, Tunisia has made the most successful transition toward democracy, recently completing presidential and parliamentary elections and a peaceful rotation of political power. Security forces have struggled against occasional attacks by Islamic extremists, but they have usually occurred in mountainous areas far from the capital.
革命波及的各国之中，突尼斯的民主转型最成功，最近完成了总统和国会的选举，以及政权的和平交替。本国安全力量不时需要应对伊斯兰派极端分子的攻击，但一般都发生在远离首都的山区。
Recruiters for the Islamic State militant group, also known as ISIS or ISIL, have sought to take advantage of the new level of freedom after the revolution, as well as the economic disruptions, high youth unemployment and resentment of the country’s often abusive police force, which is left over from the old authoritarian order. Those factors have helped make Tunisia one of the biggest sources of foreign fighters joining the Islamic State’s fight in Syria and Iraq.
为伊斯兰国招募兵源的人利用了革命之后更高程度的自由，也在利用当地经济动荡、青年高失业率和民众对警察滥用权力的愤怒。突尼斯警察部队是革命前独裁政权遗留下来的。这些因素加在一起，让突尼斯成了伊斯兰国在叙利亚和伊拉克作战时最大的外国兵源输出国。
In a video that circulated online last December, three Tunisian fighters with the Islamic State are heard warning that Tunisians would not live securely “as long as Tunisia is not governed by Islam.” One of the fighters who appeared in the video was Boubakr Hakim, a suspect wanted in connection with the 2013 assassination of a left-leaning Tunisian politician, Chokri Belaid.
在一段去年12月在网上流传的视频中，可以听到伊斯兰国的三名突尼斯战士发出的警告，他们说，“只要突尼斯不在伊斯兰统治之下”，突尼斯人就不能安居。出现在视频中的三人之一是布巴卡尔·哈基姆(Boubakr Hakim)，他是被通缉的犯罪嫌疑人，与突尼斯政治人士肖克里·贝莱德(Chokri Belaid)2013年被暗杀有关。