Designer fashion is no longer just for gay men and Europeans. Welcome to the age of sartorial enlightenment, in which the average male has shed schlumpiness for style.
设计时装不再是男同性恋和欧洲人的专利。欢迎来到这个精细剪裁服装的启蒙时代，普通的男士们也已经摆脱邋遢，追求格调。
The scene was a Williamsburg restaurant, packed with the usual array of hip beard-farmers. There was a cookie-cutter likeness about the men in the room, an aesthetic Brooklyn lockstep. Everyone seemed to have gotten the same style memo, the one that called for cardigans with granddad shawl collars, for select brands of pricey Japanese denim and for glasses that make you look like you’ve read too much Ayn Rand.
这是威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)一家餐厅里的一幕，一群平平无奇的大胡子男人，他们都像是一个模子里出来的，步调一致地遵循着布鲁克林式的审美态度。仿佛是所有人都收到了同一份风格指南，主张他们都穿爷爷级的斜领羊毛衫，昂贵刁钻的日本工装棉布裤子，还戴上那种让你看起来像读了太多安·兰德(Ayn Rand)著作的眼镜。
About the last name you’d expect to invoke in a room full of young fops in highly considered finery is that of Joe Namath. And yet suddenly I found myself thinking about Broadway Joe. You remember him, of course, the quarterback legend and media gadfly, a self-styled cartoon whose athletic prowess was pretty nearly overshadowed by his randy off-the-field antics. Goofy-handsome and with gull-wing bangs swooping back from his forehead, Joe had woolly pecs, a dense Happy Trail and a wardrobe that called to mind a coal-town Oscar Wilde.
在一个挤满年轻花花公子并且他们都煞费苦心打扮时髦的地方，你最不可能联想到的名字大概是乔·纳马斯(Joe Namath)。而我却忽然间想起了这位“百老汇乔”（Broadway Joe，纳马斯的绰号）。你当然会记得他，传奇四分位兼媒体中的讨厌鬼，一个将自己塑造成小丑的人，他在运动领域中的高强本领已经基本被他场下的各种滑稽行为所掩盖。英俊却显得有点愚蠢，额头上的刘海向后一甩显出海鸥翅膀一般的形态，乔有着长满胸毛的胸肌，浓密的小腹毛，还有一系列让人联想起煤矿小镇版奥斯卡·王尔德(Oscar Wilde)的服饰。
He wore shearling and raccoon and posed in pantyhose for a Hanes Beautymist commercial. He was an unabashed narcissist with a fondness for natty green blazers. He liked rump-hugging trousers with taut notch-pockets. He wore Brut cologne, silk foulards and white cleats on the field. Unembarrassed in his embrace of fashion, Namath was way out in front of the culture, a sartorial forerunner of all the athletes who have lately morphed from slobs wearing saggers into designer sandwich boards crowding the front rows at Versace shows.
他穿小羊皮和浣熊皮，还穿上裤袜为恒适内衣美腿裤袜系列(Hanes Beautymist)摆姿势拍广告。他是个旁若无人的自恋狂，喜欢穿有板有眼的绿色运动夹克，也喜欢那种紧裹臀部并且有狭窄V型口袋的裤子。他用百露(Brut)古龙水、丝质手帕，在球场上穿白色的钉鞋。纳马斯并不羞于追求时尚，远远超越了他那个时代的文化，在时装方面是所有运动员的先驱。他们现在已经从穿着土里土气的懒汉进化成了设计师的广告牌，挤进范思哲(Versace)时装秀的前排。
He was — if you’ll forgive the use of a lint-covered term from the cultural sock drawer — a metrosexual avant la lettre. Unlike the hippies and gender benders and rocker peacocks who were his near contemporaries, Joe Namath wasn’t toying with masculinity. His liking for nice clothes was no particular “tell” for sexual preference. That he wore coats made from the sheared pelts of expensively farmed rodents did not mean Joe Namath secretly liked men: it meant he liked mink.
如果你受得了用一个从袜子箱底里翻出来软绵绵的文化词汇来形容他的话，纳马斯就是一个“都市型男”的先驱。和那些跟他几乎同一时代的嬉皮士、雌雄莫辩者以及花枝招展的摇滚乐手不一样，乔·纳马斯并非是在拿男子气概开玩笑。他对漂亮衣服的喜好并不是特别要“指代”性取向。他穿上那些用啮齿类动物身上剪裁下来的昂贵皮毛做成的大衣，并不代表乔·纳马斯暗地里就喜欢男人：这只代表他喜欢皮草。
Looking around the restaurant that night at all the guys wearing scarves knotted just-so or herringbone tweeds from Rag and Bone or Adam Kimmel jumpsuits or shirts produced by the heritage labels whose revival has evidently become a point of soaring national pride, I realized that Namath may have been slighted by historians of fashion. Maybe he is the liminal figure theory-heads are always rooting around for. Maybe, unacknowledged and in those long-gone days, it was Broadway Joe who began the inexorable march of butch dandies into the mainstream.
再环顾一下那天晚上那家餐厅里的所有人，戴着凑合系上的围巾，或者穿着瑞格布恩(Rag and Bone)的人字花呢，亚当·吉缪(Adam Kimmel)的连衣裤，又或者是由某个在重生之后已迅速成为国家骄傲的复古品牌所出品的衬衫，我意识到，纳马斯或许已经被时尚的历史学者们遗忘了。或许他才是那些理论研究者四处寻根时想要寻找的源头人物。或许，在那个远去的时代，正是那个未被承认的“百老汇乔”，开始引领着粗壮的时髦男昂首阔步地走进主流。
It seemed pointless to speculate on whether the guys in this room, who clearly had given thought and care to what they had on, looked stylish on account of being gay or straight or American or, uh, French. Style is learned, not genetic. “Chic,” as the Ango-Irish opera designer Patrick Kinmonth once remarked, “is nothing. But it’s the right nothing.” The men in that room had done their homework. They could probably rattle off the names of the right-nothing labels in their sleep.
在那家餐厅里的男人显然对他们的穿着有过考究和重视，揣测他们打扮时髦的原因到底是因为他们是同性恋、是美国人还是因为是，呃，法国人，似乎没有任何意义。格调是学来的，不是天生的。“时髦”，就像歌剧舞台设计师、英裔爱尔兰人帕特里克·金蒙斯(Patrick Kinmonth)曾说的那样，“是毫无意义的东西。但它是那种正确的毫无意义。”那家餐厅里的那些男人做足了功课，他们很可能在睡梦中都能数出一连串“正确的毫无意义”的品牌名字。
You might, of course, suppose the phenomenon to be New York specific, or limited to the coasts. But a survey of the landscape suggests we may have entered an age of sartorial advancement. At the very least, there has been a course correction. A generation raised on the insult-to-the-eyes that was casual Fridays has suddenly discovered a novel new uniform: the suit. The last person anyone wants to dress like these days is Tim Allen.
当然，你可能会觉得这种现象只会在纽约出现，或许仅限于东西岸。不过一项相关调查却表明，我们可能已经进入了一个服饰进化的高级阶段。至少，在发展方向上有了一些修正。在污染眼球的周五便装熏陶下成长起来的一代，忽然间发现了一种新颖的制服：西装。这年头，任何人最不想模仿的打扮就是蒂姆·阿伦(Tim Allen)那样的。
Thus the frumpy Dockers and the men’s version of mom jeans and the oversize shirts billowing like jibs have been bagged up and shipped to Goodwill. Even dot-com geeks have slowly begun moving away from the hoodies and sneakers, knit-hat-and-sweatshirt Smurf look. In Silcon Valley these days, the stealth signifier of status is that throwback to the glory days of haberdashery: brightly patterned socks.
于是，邋遢过时的多克斯(Dockers)鞋、妈妈款牛仔裤的男士版以及像船帆一样迎风翻滚的大号衬衫，都已经被打包送去慈善机构了。即使是习惯网购的极客们也已经慢慢远离了帽衫和帆布鞋，摒弃了针织帽加运动衫的蓝精灵造型。在如今的硅谷，对于身份地位潜在的标识，则是对昔日男装服饰用品店光辉岁月的回归：明亮图案的袜子。
I asked the experts at the recent men’s-wear shows in Milan how had the change come about. How do you account for the apparent spike in the fashion I.Q. of the average American male? Is it fallout from years of so-called reality TV shows, the ones where anointed gay tastemakers descend on some slob in his mother’s basement and sprinkle him with pixie dust?
在最近的米兰男装时装秀上，我问一些专家，这种转变是怎么到来的。你怎么解释眼下美国普通男性在时尚智商上突如其来的飞跃？这就是那些所谓的电视真人秀多年的沉淀吗？是油头粉面的同性恋时尚人士忽然降临到某个邋遢屌丝的母亲的地下贮藏室，在他身上洒下精灵粉末？
It can’t be that, really. For one, the gay stereotypes don’t hold up. The guys from the corner of Queer and Gay Streets tended to dress like jokers in square-toed shoes and whiskered jeans and the silly muscle shirts one associates with certain preening news anchors.
这不可能，真的。首先，这种对同性恋者先入为主的认识就站不住脚。从同志街区角落里走出来的男人，一般都会穿得像小丑：方形鞋头的鞋子和带流苏的牛仔裤，还有那种会让人联想起某些爱打扮的新闻节目主持人的傻气紧身衬衫。
“Now, everyone knows everything,” Wendell Brown, a senior fashion editor at Esquire, told me recently. Growing up in the 1980s, Brown felt forced to hide his issues of GQ under the bed to avoid detection, not quite ready to come out to his parents as a Perry Ellis fan. “We are so far beyond that whole metrosexual phase, that ‘Is he gay?’ stigma.”
“现在，每个人都是什么都懂，”《君子》(Esquire)杂志的一位资深时装编辑温德尔·布朗(Wendell Brown)最近告诉我说。成长于20世纪80年代的布朗曾因为感到压力而将他的很多期《GQ》杂志藏到床底下，不让别人发现，因为他还没准备好让他的父母知道他是派瑞·艾力斯(Perry Ellis)的粉丝。“我们现在已经远远过了那个都市型男的阶段，不再有那种‘他是同志吗？’的耻笑。”
Brown knew it had all changed, he said, when a female colleague in his office, an untrendy type whose boyfriend was a former frat boy, asked him if he could hook her fellow up with a suit from Thom Browne.
布朗说，有一次他办公室里一位并不时髦的女同事，男友是前兄弟会成员，她来问他是否可以给她的伴侣推荐一款桑姆·布郎尼(Thom Browne)的西装。当时布朗就知道，一切都改变了。
There was a time when the notion of a good old boy coveting one of Browne’s shrunken suits — the ones with the high-water pants and jackets barely skimming one’s bottom — would have been more than implausible, a “Zoolander” fantasy. Yet barely a decade ago, when Browne was still catering to a select handful of clients and had no wholesale business, his customer base was already skewing toward in-the-know Wall Street types, said Tom Kalenderian, the executive vice president of Barneys New York.
曾有一段时间，一个标准好男孩渴望有一件桑姆·布郎尼的小西装，会是一个很难令人相信的观念——吊脚西裤和下摆刚好能碰到臀部的外套，是一种只出现在电影《超级名模》(Zoolander)里的幻想。然而，巴尼斯纽约精品店(Barneys New York)的执行副总裁汤姆·凯伦德里安(Tom Kalendarian)说，仅仅是十年前，当桑姆·布郎尼仍是针对着一小撮重点客户并且还没有批发业务时，他们的顾客群就已经逐渐转向了那些识货的华尔街人士。
“You wouldn’t have expected that they were going to buy something so strong,” Kalenderian told me. “But the learning curve is very steep.”
“你当时并不期待他们会买这么重口味的东西，”凯伦德里安告诉我说，“但他们的‘学习曲线’(learning curve)上升得非常快。”
Such are the effects of the rushing slipstream of information, and of a solipsism so pronounced that our national fixation is with becoming ever better curated versions of ourselves, that leading the average American man to fashion is hardly the struggle it once was.
同样飞快的是汹涌的信息流量带来的效应，还有一种坚定的唯我主义，我们的国家固恋(national fixation)来自于我们不断悉心塑造更好的自己，这样一来，要将一般的美国男人领进时尚世界，就不再是像过去那么艰难的事情了。
“The past 15 years have been all about the mainstreaming of style,” Michael Hainey, the deputy editor of GQ, told me. “In the past there were no E! Entertainment shows about what people wore on the red carpet,” he added. “There was no fashion commentary as part of a man’s daily life. With the exception of Joe Namath, most sports stars in the past took a ‘Who cares?’ attitude about dressing.”
“过去的15年都是在将时尚主流化，”《GQ》杂志的副主编迈克尔·海尼(Michael Hainey)告诉我说。“过去没有‘E！’娱乐(E! Entertainment)这样的时尚频道来讲人们在红地毯上都穿些什么，”他补充道，“一个男人的日常生活中也并没有时尚评论的部分。除了乔·纳马斯以外，过去的大多数体育明星对于着装都是抱着一种‘谁要在乎？’的态度。”
That men do now gave all the lunks of the world permission to exit their man caves and go shopping, to acquire a smattering of knowledge about design and fit and to stop deluding themselves that it’s somehow more manly to look like a bum.
男人们现在则是允许他们内心里的那个野人走出山洞去买衣服了，还去学习一丁点关于设计、合身度的知识，并且不再自欺欺人地觉得穿得像个乞丐才显得更男人。
“I’ve been to shows in Milan and sat next to N.B.A. All-Stars like Carmelo Anthony,” Dan Peres, the editor in chief of Details, said. “And when the show is over you can turn to him and say, ‘Hey, Carmelo, what did you think about the gladiator sandals Donatella Versace sent down the runway?’ ” Surely it’s a sign of some sort of cultural shift — the kind Broadway Joe might be proud to have set in motion — that, when Peres posed the question to Anthony, the 6-foot-8 Knicks forward responded with polite and knowledgeable interest rather than punching him out.
“我去过米兰的时装秀，坐在像卡梅罗·安东尼(Carmelo Anthony)这样的NBA全明星球员身边，”《Details》杂志的主编丹·皮尔斯(Dan Peres)说道，“而当表演结束之后，你可以转过头去说：‘嗨，卡梅罗，你觉得T台上那款多娜泰拉·范思哲(Donatella Versace)的罗马鞋怎么样？’”当皮尔斯向安东尼提出这个问题的时候，那位6尺8寸高的尼克斯队前锋很有礼貌并且颇有见地地回答了他，而不是一拳把他轰走。这绝对代表了一种文化的转变——或许“百老汇乔”会为自己开启了这种转变而感到自豪。