CHENGDU, China — Strange food. Unintelligible natives. These are just some of the things that Bao Bao, the 3-year-old panda from the National Zoo in Washington, has grappled with since moving to China last month. But the culture shock is fading, her handlers say, as she settles into the land of her ancestors.
中国成都——奇怪的食物。听不懂的本地话。3岁大熊猫“宝宝”上个月从华盛顿国家动物园回到中国后，需要努力克服的麻烦不仅仅是这些。但她的饲养员表示，当她开始习惯居住在祖祖辈辈繁衍的这片土地上时，文化的冲击将会消失。
On Friday, after 30 days of quarantine, Bao Bao made her first public appearance at the Dujiangyan base of the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in Sichuan Province.
周五，在检疫隔离30天后，“宝宝”首次在中国四川的大熊猫保护研究中心都江堰基地公开露面。
Bao Bao’s new life in China has been not easy, according to Tang Cheng, one of her keepers during her quarantine. Over the past month, she has had to learn Mandarin with a Sichuan accent and get used to the local fare — including wowotou, or steamed cornbread buns, in place of the biscuits she was used to.
据报道，“宝宝”在检疫隔离期间的饲养员唐诚说，“宝宝”在中国的新生活并不容易。在过去一个月里，她不得不学习带四川口音的普通话，习惯当地的食品——包括窝窝头，一种蒸熟的玉米面包，而不是她习惯吃的饼干。
By now, Bao Bao can understand some commands in Chinese, including “stand up” and “sit down,” Mr. Tang said.
唐诚说，现在“宝宝”可以听懂一些中文命令了，包括“站起来”和“坐下来”。
Mr. Tang was selected to work with Bao Bao in part because he speaks English as well as Chinese, an important skill to help haigui, or overseas returned, pandas to adapt to their new homes.
唐诚被安排照顾“宝宝”，部分原因是他能说中英双语，这种能力对帮助海归的大熊猫适应新的家园来说很重要。
At the ceremony on Friday, several United States diplomats and dozens of reporters and other guests were on hand to greet Bao Bao. Although they were clearly excited to see her for the first time, waving their hands and shouting her name to get her attention, Bao Bao seemed unimpressed. She spent most of the time sitting in her outdoor playground, munching on bamboo. From time to time, she would examine the rubber balls and tires hanging near her brick enclosure.
在周五的仪式上，几位美国外交官、几十位记者和其他客人在现场迎接“宝宝”。虽然他们第一次看到她都很高兴，挥着手，喊着她的名字想引起她注意，但“宝宝”对他们爱理不理。她大部分时间都坐在户外的游乐场上，嚼着竹子。还时不时地琢磨着橡胶球，以及挂在砖墙附近的轮胎。
According to Mr. Tang, Bao Bao spent her first few days in China overcoming jet lag and by now has settled into a routine: four to six meals a day, of bamboo, carrots, apples and wowotou. At first she did not like the wowotou and tended to throw it away.
唐诚介绍说，到中国的最初几天里，“宝宝”都是在倒时差，现在已经养成了固定的起居习惯：每天吃四到六餐，有竹子、胡萝卜、苹果和窝窝头。起初她不喜欢窝窝头，爱把它扔开。
By now, though, Mr. Tang said, “she is adapting well to her new environment,” and has gained more than four pounds.
但现在，唐诚说：“她适应新环境的能力很强，”已经长了四斤多。
Bao Bao is not the first American-born panda to face the challenges of a new life. In November, when Mei Lun and Mei Huan, the first surviving panda twins to have been born in the United States, at Zoo Atlanta, came to China, the Chinese news media reported that they, too, had difficulties with the local language and food.
“宝宝”不是第一只面对新生活挑战的美国出生的熊猫。中国的新闻媒体报道说，去年11月，在美国境内第一对出生并存活下来的大熊猫双胞胎“美轮”和“美奂”从美国亚特兰大动物园回到中国时，他们也在语言和食物方面遇到了困难。
According to the conservation and research center, 25 pandas have been born abroad since the 1990s, when China set up panda breeding programs in collaboration with 17 zoos in 12 countries. Of these, 18 have survived. By agreement, pandas provided by China are considered loans, and their offspring must be sent to China before their fourth birthday in preparation for breeding.
据这个保护研究中心介绍，自20世纪90年代以来，共有25只熊猫在国外出生，中国在12个国家与17个动物园合作建立了大熊猫育种计划。其中18只存活下来。按照协议，中国提供的大熊猫被视为借出，繁衍的后代必须在四岁前送到中国，为繁殖做准备。
Bao Bao was born on Aug. 23, 2013, to Mei Xiang and Tian Tian, two pandas on loan to the National Zoo. Her older brother, Tai Shan, who was born in 2005 and sent to China in 2010, is now her neighbor at the Dujiangyan base. A younger brother, Bei Bei, was born in 2015 and is still in Washington.
“宝宝”是2013年8月23日出生的，父母是借给华盛顿国家动物园的“添添”和“美香”。她的哥哥“泰山”出生于2005年，在2010年被送回中国，现在成为了她在都江堰基地的邻居。她还有一个弟弟“贝贝”，出生于2015年，目前仍在华盛顿。
A 2016 report by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature put the total number of giant pandas around 2,060. While that is up from the 1,596 counted in a 2000-4 census, the health of the population depends on continued conservation efforts. Each panda has a mission to spread the genes, and Bao Bao is no exception. Once she reaches sexual maturity, around 5 or 6 years old, she will acquire a boyfriend.
国际自然保护联盟(International Union for Conservation of Nature)2016年的一份报告指出，现有大熊猫的总数约为2060只。虽然这比2000~2004年的一次普查结果1596只有所增多，但种群数量的健康有赖于持续的保护工作。每只熊猫都有传播基因的使命，“宝宝”也不例外。一旦达到性成熟期，也就是到五六岁的时候，她就会交男朋友。
“When Bao Bao gets to that age, we will arrange for her to meet many young males,’’ Mr. Tang said, “and their relationship will be based on love.”
唐诚说：“当‘宝宝’到了适当年纪，我们会安排她见很多的年轻备选对象，直到找到男朋友，他们的关系将是基于双方的爱的基础上的。”