Because the kippered salmon, the slippery pink lengths of matjes herring and the shiny white sturgeon at the new Russ & Daughters Cafe are the same products you can take home from the old Russ & Daughters shop a few blocks away on East Houston Street, a cynic may say that the restaurant offers nothing more than an opportunity to eat the proprietors’ fish on their plates instead of yours.
新的“鲁斯和女儿们”餐馆(Russ & Daughters Cafe)供应的食物跟你在几个街区外东豪斯顿街上的老鲁斯和女儿们店买到的外卖食物没什么两样——熏鲑鱼、光滑的粉红色酒汁鲱鱼和闪亮的白鲟——所以挑剔的人可能会说，这家餐馆没什么新东西，就是可以让你不用自己的盘子而是用店主的盘子吃鱼而已。
To which I’d say: What’s wrong with that?
对此我要说：这有什么问题吗？
The cafe, which opened in May, is modeled on the store, to an almost obsessive degree. Backlit signs in black and white proclaim the presence of sardines, chubs, rugelach and pickles by the barrel. Below the signs are boxes of matzo and jars of chocolate-covered jelly rings. In the center of the restaurant sides of salmon and whole, golden-skinned whitefish with their slit bellies pointing up wait in a refrigerated case until they are sliced to order by a counter worker in a white jacket, just as on Houston Street.
这家餐馆5月份开业，对老店的模仿几乎到了痴迷的地步。黑白背光灯招牌上宣告着供应沙丁鱼、白鲑鱼、核桃巧克力酥卷(rugelach)和桶装咸菜。招牌下面是一盒盒逾越节薄饼和一罐罐裹着巧克力的环形软糖。餐馆中央的冰柜里放着摊开的三文鱼和整条金皮白鲑鱼，它们剖开的肚皮朝上，等着被穿白衣服的柜员在接到点单之后切成片，就像在豪斯顿街上那样。
But Niki Russ Federman and her cousin Josh Russ Tupper, the fourth-generation owners of the family business, have added to, elaborated on and deviated from the store in ways that make the cafe a three-dimensional restaurant, not just a theme-park homage designed to cash in on the original’s popularity.
但是，这个家族生意的第四代主人尼基·鲁斯·费德曼(Niki Russ Federman)和堂哥乔希·鲁斯·塔珀(Josh Russ Tupper)对老店进行补充、完善，在很多方面也脱离老店，让它变成一个真实的餐馆，而不是利用老店的人气进行主题公园式的致敬。
Take, for example, the rye bread. Everybody talks about good Jewish rye but hardly anyone has tasted it. To get a rye that deserved to share the table with their smoked fish, the owners imported a baker from Massachusetts known for his artisan loaves, Gordon Weissman. His rye is dense and rugged, with a crisp, ragged crust, a sourdough depth and a generous strafing of seeds, not just caraway but also onion-scented nigella. Called shissel, the bread is as different from most ryes as bourbon is from light beer.
比如，黑麦面包。每个人都在谈论好吃的犹太黑麦面包，但是几乎没人吃过。为了得到配得上他们的熏鱼的黑麦面包，店主们从马萨诸塞州请来了以烤面包技艺闻名的面包师戈登·韦斯曼(Gordon Weissman)。他的黑麦面包味道浓郁，粗糙不平，有一层松脆粗糙的外壳，酸面团的比例很足，慷慨地撒上了很多种子，不只是葛缕子籽，还有洋葱味的黑种草籽。这种面包叫shissel，它和大多数黑麦面包的区别就像波旁威士忌和淡啤酒的区别一样。
Or take the way that items the store is known for have been worked into the menu. Halvah is sold by the block, but shouldn’t be eaten that way. It should be eaten this way: broken into chewy bits and scattered over rich sesame ice cream along with salted caramel sauce and a spackling of sesame seeds.
你可以先尝尝那些在老店已经很出名且进入新店菜单的食物。土耳其碎芝麻蜂蜜糖是按块卖的，但是不应该一整块吃掉，而应该弄碎成可以嚼的小粒，撒在浓郁的芝麻冰激凌上，同时撒上盐味焦糖酱和一层芝麻。
Or take the new line of dishes from the Eastern European Jewish canon that are not sold at the store, like the baby knishes stuffed with potatoes and caramelized onions. Over the years the New York knish has become so dense it could be used as an anchor for a small boat. These little specimens are light and fluffy, and they taste not like flour and grease but like baked potatoes.
你也可以尝尝老店里没有的东欧正统犹太食物，比如土豆和焦糖洋葱馅的小克尼什饼。经过这么多年，纽约的克尼什饼已经变得太厚重，都可以用来当小船的锚了。这家店里的小克尼什饼轻盈蓬松，尝起来不像是面粉和油脂做的，而像烤马铃薯。
Or take the bar, situated by the front door on Orchard Street. How does a 100-year-old temple to sturgeon get into the cocktail trade? With a reimagined old-time soda fountain of the kind that would have blasted jets of seltzer into egg creams when Joel Russ, newly arrived from Galicia, in what is now Poland, was selling herring from the barrel on the Lower East Side. The white-jacketed bartender makes fresh cucumber soda, cherry shrubs, egg creams and excellent Bloody Marys.
或者你试试这里的酒吧，它位于果园街的前门旁。一个百年鲟鱼神殿是怎么开始做起鸡尾酒生意的呢？靠的是一台仿造的老式汽水机——刚从波兰加利西亚来的酒保乔尔·鲁斯(Joel Russ)在下东区卖鲱鱼时，用的正是这种机器将苏打水注入蛋蜜乳中。这位穿白衣服的酒保调制新鲜的黄瓜苏打水、樱桃汁甜酒、蛋蜜乳和很棒的血腥玛丽鸡尾酒。
He looks as if he belongs there, and the drinks, with Eastern European flavors like caraway, taste as if they belong, for the most part, although my egg cream was not as volcanically fizzy as it might have been. There is a small but well-considered wine list, too. The sparkling wines, especially the less expensive ones from outside Champagne, might have been made to go with smoked-fish platters like the Anne, which collects some of the store’s most luxurious treats on a briefcase-size board: its famous sable and Western nova smoked salmon, its underrated brook trout, its extraordinarily fine wild salmon roe and its “private stock” sturgeon. I asked our waiter what made it private stock.
他看起来与这个酒吧很搭，这里的酒水基本也是，比如东欧风味的葛缕子口味，但我的蛋蜜乳的泡起得不够猛烈。这里还有一个品种不算多却经过深思熟虑的小葡萄酒单。那些起泡酒，特别是来自香槟区之外的那些不太昂贵的起泡酒，可能是为了搭配熏鱼拼盘，比如安妮拼盘——它聚集了该店最奢侈的一些美食，放在一个公文包大小的板上，包括该店著名的裸盖鱼和西诺瓦熏鲑鱼、被低估的溪红点鲑、非常精美的野生鲑鱼卵和“私藏”鲟鱼。我问服务员为什么它是私藏鲟鱼。
“They get a lot of high rollers at the store, some very particular customers,” he said. “This one lady came in and asked for sturgeon, but when they started to slice it, she said: ‘No, no, no. I don’t want your regular sturgeon. I want your private stock.’ ”
“它们吸引了很多土豪，一些非常特别的顾客，”他说，“有一位女士来店里点鲟鱼，但是当他们开始切的时候，她说：‘不，不，不。我不要你们的普通鲟鱼。我想要你们的私藏鲟鱼。’ ”
This private stock of sturgeon did not, as of yet, exist, but the slicer obligingly found her an unusually sleek specimen. From then on, the fattiest fish would be kept under the counter for customers who would not settle for the regular sturgeon. (As with many stories about Russ & Daughters, the waiter’s account has the ring of folk legend. When I asked Jen Snow, who has the title of Yenta at the company, whether it was historically accurate, her response was long and began with “Oy vey.”) At the restaurant, private-stock sturgeon is advertised but is still a high-roller item; the Anne platter goes for $90.
私藏鲟鱼当时并不存在，但是切鲟鱼的厨师热心地给她找了一条特别肥美的鲟鱼。从那以后，最肥的鱼被放在柜台下面，留给那些不满足于普通鲟鱼的顾客（和“鲁斯和女儿们”的很多故事一样，这位服务员的描述有点民间传说的感觉。当我问珍·斯诺[Jen Snow]——她在这家店里有长舌妇的称号——这个故事是否属实时，她的回答很长，开头是“哦，耶”）。在这家餐馆里，私藏鲟鱼被特别宣传，不过它仍是有钱人才消费得起的东西；安妮拼盘的售价为90美元。
The Anne feeds three or four people. And it does come with a basket of the excellent rye and other breads; a very good, crisp salad of thin-sliced potatoes with mustard; the house cream cheese, which sets the standard for the rest of the city; and all the usual fixings. Still, $90 is not bupkis, and it is not the only disconcerting price at Russ & Daughters Cafe.
安妮拼盘可供三至四人食用。而且它还随附一篮上好的黑麦面包和其他面包；一盘美味的新鲜沙拉，里面是切得很细的土豆，搭配芥末；自制奶油干酪——这为本市的其他餐馆做了个榜样；以及所有的常规配菜。不过，90美元不是个小数字，而且也不是里唯一令人不安的标价。
Forget the caviar service, which starts at $105 for 50 grams of paddlefish and inclines swiftly from there. At the store, long admired for competitive prices on tins of fish eggs, the same 50 grams cost about half as much. The markups are an unpleasant surprise, and guarantee that for most value-minded diners, the caviar section of the menu will be strictly a curiosity.
不要惦记这里的鱼子酱了，白鲟鱼子酱每50克105美元起，其他的更贵。在商店里，听装鱼子酱的价格更具竞争力，同样的50克鱼子酱价格只有这里的一半。利润之高是令人不快的意外，对大多数注重实惠的就餐者来说，菜单上的鱼子酱部分你就当是个稀罕物吧。
At $60, the scrambled eggs with paddlefish caviar may seem like a more reasonable splurge. But when I had it, Mr. Weissman’s challah, although toasted, was going stale and the eggs didn’t have the voluptuousness achieved at, say, Jean-Georges. Some everyday items seem out of line, too, like $22 for four slices of sturgeon with butter, capers, tomatoes, onions and a serviceable bagel.
60美元的白鲟鱼子酱炒蛋可能是更理性的挥霍。但是等它上桌的时候，韦斯曼的烤白面包已经变硬了，而且鸡蛋没有让-乔治斯餐馆(Jean-Georges)做得好。有些常见菜品也贵得有点离谱，比如22美元只能买到四片鲟鱼搭配黄油、刺山柑、番茄、洋葱和味道一般般的百吉饼。
For most people, fish on a bagel may not be enough reason to go to a restaurant at night. Russ & Daughters Cafe is open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., with the same paper place-mat menu day and night. You could certainly make a light supper from one of the egg dishes, especially the creamy and soft scramble with onions and lox. (How did the Lower East Side get along without this?) But that is a meal best enjoyed alone with a book. The kitchen offers very little that will provide enough traction for a group of friends engaging in a round of cocktails followed by a bottle of wine.
对大多数人来说，百吉饼加鱼可能不足以成为在晚上去餐馆用餐的理由。“鲁斯和女儿们”的营业时间是上午10点至晚上10点，白天晚上用的是同样的餐具垫纸菜单。你当然可以只点一份鸡蛋做的菜，吃一顿清淡的晚餐，特别是柔滑、松软的洋葱、熏鲑鱼炒蛋（下东区怎么能没有这个？）。但是在这里吃饭最好是带一本书独自用餐。厨房供应的食物不足以供一群朋友在喝完一瓶红酒之后再来一轮鸡尾酒。
Unlike most New Yorkers, the menu looks best by daylight. Most helpings are modest, good for noshing. Salmon roe and crème fraîche with latkes, with hard-shell exteriors and fluffy white interiors, seem like breakfast. So does the sturdy bagel chip piled up with whitefish and salmon salads and flying-fish roe infused with wasabi. At lunch the excellent cold borscht could lead up to the herring sampler featuring rollmops, Swedish matjes and pickled herring, which has immediately joined the small list of dishes whose flavor helps define New York.
和大部分纽约人不同，这里的菜单白天看起来最好。大部分菜的分量都不大，适合当小吃。马铃薯饼配三文鱼卵和法式酸奶油——马铃薯饼外面是硬壳，里面松软白嫩——看起来像早餐。与白鲑鱼和三文鱼沙拉堆在一起的硬实的百吉饼条,以及注满芥末酱的飞鱼也像是早餐。午餐时，美味的冷罗宋汤可以作为鲱鱼什锦的前奏，鲱鱼什锦包括香料醋渍鲱鱼卷、瑞典酒汁鲱鱼和盐渍鲱鱼。最后这道菜已经很快进入了具有纽约特色的小列表里了。
The cafe might have a stronger nocturnal allure with a separate dinner menu or beefed-up portions of plates like the latkes. And it might look into slicing Mr. Weissman’s breads closer to the dinner hour so they aren’t as fatigued. I’m not expecting to see any big changes right away, though. This is, after all, a business that took a century to give its customers a place to sit down.
如果这家餐馆有单独的晚餐菜单或者加大菜的份量，比如像马铃薯饼那样，那它在晚间的吸引力可能会更大。它还可以在更接近用餐时间时再切韦斯曼做的面包，这样面包就不会变硬。不过我不指望它能很快做出很大改变。毕竟，这家店花了一个世纪才给顾客们提供了坐下来用餐的地方。