1. FOLLOWING PAPA’S SONG
1. 《追随爸爸的歌声》(Following Papa's Song)
Written and illustrated by Gianna Marino
詹娜·马里诺(Gianna Marino)编写、绘图。
36 pp. Viking. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 6)
36页。维京(Viking)出版社。16.99美元。（绘本，2至6岁）
A whale father leads Little Blue, his calf, across the ocean on a great migration. Though the two swim together, curiosity leads the youngster into deeper, darker waters; he has to listen for “Papa’s song” to find his way back to the pod. Marino nicely juxtaposes the whales’ muted natural coloring with underwater scenes painted in the brilliant hues of a tie-dye T-shirt; mulberry paper traced with visible threads of bark evokes the scratched texture of the whales’ skin and the shimmer of light on water.
鲸鱼爸爸领着幼子小蓝(Little Blue)穿过海洋进行大迁徙。虽然他们一起游泳，但是好奇心把幼子引入了更深、更暗的水域，他必须倾听“爸爸的歌声”才能找到返回鲸群的路。马里诺精细地把鲸鱼柔和的天然色彩与扎染T恤式灿烂色彩的水下场景放在一起。所用的桑皮纸有清晰的树皮纹路，让人想起了鲸鱼皮有纹路的质感和海水的微光。
2. I LOVE YOU, TOO!
2. 《我也爱你！》(I Love You, Too!)
Written and illustrated by Michael Foreman
迈克尔·福尔曼(Michael Foreman)编写、绘图。
28 pp. Andersen Press. $16.95. (Picture book; ages 2 to 6)
28页。安德森出版社(Andersen Press)。16.95美元。（图画书，2至6岁）
As Father Bear finishes reading a bedtime story, his cub, in a clever ploy to postpone lights-out, keeps upping the ante on their farewells. “I love you more than all the toys in the toy box,” Little Bear says. “I love you more,” his father replies. “Now go to sleep.” In Foreman’s sweet watercolors, father and cub play in scenes evoked by each analogy, from beach to snowscape to meadow. Though it’s hard not to hear echoes of Sam McBratney and Anita Jeram’s “Guess How Much I Love You,” this British import is, refreshingly, less sentimental. The end’s unexpected twist should summon a smile of recognition in sleepy parents.
熊爸爸读完一个睡前故事，他的幼子为了推迟熄灯时间，在他们道别的时候玩了一个小把戏，不断向爸爸表达更深的爱。“我爱你超过玩具箱里的所有玩具，”小熊说。“我更爱你，”他的爸爸回答道，“现在该睡觉了。”在福尔曼甜蜜的水彩画中，父子俩在每个比较涉及到的场景里玩耍，从海滩、雪地到草地。虽然它很难不让人想起山姆·麦克布莱特尼(Sam McBratney)和安尼塔·杰莱姆(Anita Jeram)的《猜猜我有多爱你》(Guess How Much I Love You)，但是这本英国进口的绘本不那么伤感，非常清新。结尾处意想不到的情节转变应该会让困乏的父母们会心一笑。
3. HOW TO CHEER UP DAD
3. 《怎么让爸爸高兴》(How To Cheer Up Dad)
Written and illustrated by Fred Koehler
弗里德·科勒(Fred Koehler)编写、绘图。
32 pp. Dial. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 6)
32页。戴尔(Dial)出版社。16.99美元。（图画书，2至6岁）
Using fashionably thick black outlines and muted tones of peach and brown against a white background, Koehler depicts a day in the life of Little Jumbo and Dad, whose attempts to keep the toddler elephant clean, fed and dressed don’t go so well. But in what must be one of the most productive timeouts ever, Little Jumbo decides to turn the day around. He starts with a hug and works his way through to bedtime. The happy day becomes a gift of sorts, and ends, as it should, with one elephant exhausted and asleep, though in keeping with Koehler’s amusing role reversals, it’s not Little Jumbo who is under the covers.
科勒在白色背景上采用时髦的黑粗线条，以及柔和的桃红色和棕色，描绘出小象和爸爸生活中的一天。爸爸想让蹒跚学步的小象保持干净，吃饱饭，穿好衣服，却未能如愿以偿。但是在休息时间，小象决定让这一天变得愉快——这恐怕是最有效果的休息了。他先是拥抱爸爸，然后一直努力好好表现，直到上床睡觉。这愉快的一天变成了一种礼物，结尾肯定是一只大象筋疲力竭地睡着了，不过与科勒有趣的角色对换保持一致的是，睡在被窝里的不是小象。
4. NELLY GNU AND DADDY TOO
4. 《角马内莉和爸爸》(Nelly Gnu And Daddy Too)
Written and illustrated by Anna Dewdney
安娜·杜尼(Anna Dewdney)编写、绘图。
34 pp. Viking. $17.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 6)
34页。维京出版社。17.99美元。（图画书，2至6岁）
Dewdney, creator of the “Llama Llama” books, excels at describing ordinary family fun. Here Daddy Gnu and his daughter Nelly spend the day together, building a cardboard playhouse. “A great big box, some tape and string  —  Daddy can make anything!” Nelly says. A trip to the local hardware store brings a little adventure when Nelly looses sight of Daddy, but all ends well, with Nelly asleep in the snug house, complete with night light. Dewdney’s painted illustrations have a bright, velvety look, and she includes realistic details like Nelly’s omnipresent purple blankie and tiny tool belt.
《羊驼》(Llama Llama)系列图书的作者杜尼特别擅长描绘寻常的家庭乐趣。在这本书中，角马爸爸和女儿内莉(Nelly)一起搭建纸板玩具房。“只要有一个大纸箱、一些胶带和绳子——爸爸什么都能做出来！”内莉说。去五金店购买原材料时出了点意外，内莉找不到爸爸了，不过结果一切都好，内莉在舒适的玩具房里睡着了，玩具房里的夜灯也装好了。杜尼色彩鲜明的插画有一种明亮、柔软的感觉，她还加入了一些逼真的细节，比如内莉随处可见的紫色小毯子和小工具腰带。
5. THE ALMOST FEARLESS HAMILTON SQUIDLEGGER
5. 《几乎无所畏惧的汉密尔顿·斯奎德莱格》(The Almost Fearless Hamilton Squidlegger)
Written and illustrated by Timothy Basil Ering
蒂莫西·巴兹尔·埃林(Timothy Basil Ering)编写、绘图。
48 pp. Candlewick Press. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 3 to 6)
48页。烛芯出版社(Candlewick Press)。16.99美元。（图画书，3至6岁）
In this giddily inventive tale, Hamilton, a young frog, has such terrible night fears that he can’t sleep alone. “Please, please, pleeeeeeeease, son — stay in your own mud tonight,” his father begs. Instead of running from the frackensnappers and skelecragons Hamilton sees in his dreams, his father suggests he should invite them to play, and offers “a double-decker grasshopper worm-cake” as an incentive. Though the cake gets lobbed at a monster, Hamilton at last takes his father’s advice and finds himself the hero of an antic adventure. Ering, who illustrated “The Tale of Despereaux,” uses browns, pinks and greens for the frogs’ swampy habitat and brings exuberant animation to Hamilton’s expressions, which range from terrified to puzzled to thrilled.
在这本令人眼花缭乱的、别出心裁的故事中，年幼的青蛙汉密尔顿非常害怕夜晚，不敢独自睡觉。“请你，请你，求求你，儿子——今晚待在自己的泥屋里，”他爸爸恳求他。他爸爸建议他不要逃避在梦里见到的咬人的怪物和恐龙骷髅，而是邀请他们一起玩耍，用“一个双层蚂蚱蛋糕”讨好他们。虽然那个蛋糕砸向了一个怪物，但是汉密尔顿最终听从了父亲的建议，发现自己变成了一场滑稽的冒险中的英雄。埃林是《浪漫鼠德佩罗》(The Tale of Despereaux)的插图作者。他在这本书里用棕色、粉色和绿色描绘青蛙们的栖息湿地，而且让汉密尔顿的表情充满了生动的活力，比如恐惧、迷惑和兴奋。