Anyone who tried to follow the crisis in Egypt on CNN while the Zimmerman trial was going on knows that “The Newsroom” isn’t entirely wrong about what’s wrong with cable news.
所有在齐默尔曼(Zimmerman)审判期间，同时试图跟踪CNN的埃及危机报道的人会知道，《新闻编辑室》(The Newsroom)指出的有线电视新闻的问题并不完全错误。
Aaron Sorkin’s “Newsroom” begins its second season on HBO on Sunday at a moment when CNN seems to have fully surrendered to the ratings-first leadership of Jeff Zucker. Even as millions of Egyptians took to the streets, and the military deposed President Mohamed Morsi, CNN kept its focus stubbornly on a Sanford, Fla., courtroom.
艾伦·索金(Aaron Sorkin)的《新闻编辑室》周日在HBO频道开播第二季，当时CNN似乎完全在关注杰夫·扎克(Jeff Zucker)的领导权问题。尽管成百上千万埃及人上街游行，军队废黜了穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)总统，CNN依然固执地把注意力放在了佛罗里达州桑福德市的一个法庭上。
But that real-time validation alone doesn’t make the case for “The Newsroom,” a Brigadoon version of cable news that, among other things, looks backward. The show’s fictional reporters cover real events that are no longer current: Season 1, which began in the summer of 2012, was caught up in the first Tahrir Square uprising, which began in January 2011.
但单凭实时验证还不足以支撑《新闻编辑室》，这个关于有线电视新闻的布里戈顿（Brigadoon，它是一个神秘的苏格拉村庄的名字，那里的一天相当于世间的一百年——译注）式电视剧看起来有点过时。剧中虚构的记者们报道的都是真实事件，不过都不是当前发生的：2012年夏季开播的第一季讲的是2011年1月开始的第一次解放广场起义。
“The Newsroom” started as an eloquent but overwrought tutorial on politics and journalistic ethics that, for all its wit and dazzle, was laborious to watch: insufferably high-minded characters kept interrupting their reporting to declaim the sanctity of the news.
《新闻编辑室》开始是一部关于政治和新闻职业道德的辅导课，很有说服力但是有些过于激动；片中充满智慧以及令人赞叹的情节，但是看起来很吃力：过于高尚的人物不停打断他们的报道，夸夸其谈新闻的神圣。
“The Newsroom” is still righteous and romantic, but the characters now compete less over virtue than over virtuosity. There are new faces this season, and two of the better additions aren’t even journalists. Most important, the narrative this time around is driven by an overarching story line — a libel suit — that pulls viewers past the rocks and eddies of liberal piety.
新一季的《新闻编辑室》仍然公正而浪漫，但是这一回，剧中人物拼的不是美德，而是技巧。这一季里出现了几张新面孔，其中两个条件更好的人甚至不是记者。最重要的是，这次讲的是一个包罗万象的故事——一个诽谤案——它拖着观众穿过自由虔诚的岩石和湍流。
This revamped version of “The Newsroom” is no less preachy, but it’s a lot more fun to watch.
这个修订版的《新闻编辑室》还是在说教，但是观看起来有趣多了。
The new opening is telling. The original elegiac, maudlin homage to Cronkite and Murrow has been scrapped in favor of sprightlier music and a snappy montage of clocks, newspapers, smartphones, scripts, laptops, spilled coffee, video monitors and stiletto-heeled pumps.
从新的片头就能看出这一点。原来哀伤的、向克朗凯特(Cronkite)和莫罗(Murrow)致敬的配乐被舍弃了，代之以活泼的配乐和生气勃勃的蒙太奇，包括钟表、报纸、智能手机、手稿、笔记本电脑、泼洒的咖啡、视频监视器和高跟鞋。
The story starts off with Will McAvoy (Jeff Daniels), the anchor of ACN, trying to explain to that cable network’s high-priced lawyer Rebecca Halliday (Marcia Gay Harden, one of the new guest stars) how his news team messed up a major report about American troops in Afghanistan. A source offered a new, ambitious producer, Jerry Dantana (Hamish Linklater), the kind of scoop “that makes careers and ends presidencies.”
故事开头是ACN频道的主播威尔·麦卡沃伊（Will McAvoy，杰夫·丹尼尔斯[Jeff Daniels]饰）努力跟该有线电视网收费很高的律师丽贝卡·哈利迪（Rebecca Halliday，马西娅·盖伊·哈登[Marcia Gay Harden]饰，她是新的客串明星之一）解释自己的新闻团队是如何把一个关于阿富汗美军的重要报道搞砸的。一个线人给野心勃勃的新制作人杰里·丹塔纳（Jerry Dantana，哈米什·林克拉特[Hamish Linklater]饰）提供了一个独家新闻线索，这种新闻“能成就你的事业，但也会葬送你的仕途”。
But, actually, the government’s legal case against the network could well end the careers of anchors and news division presidents. ACN had to retract the report, then hired Halliday, a top litigator, to coach Will and his team through a deposition and possibly a trial. And the mistake might never have happened had it not been for a bizarre pileup of events that are revealed in flashbacks, layer by layer, almost “Citizen Kane”-style.
但是实际上，政府针对该新闻网的法律诉讼完全可能终结主播们和新闻部主管们的事业。ACN不得不撤回报道，然后聘请顶级诉讼律师哈利迪指导威尔和他的团队如何写证词以及应对可能发生的审判。要不是发生了一连串奇怪事件，这个错误本来根本不可能发生。本剧用闪回的手法一层层揭开这些事件，有点像《公民凯恩》(Citizen Kane)的叙事风格。
This fresh start has the added advantage of breaking up last season’s overworked romantic impasses and putting young lovers on new trajectories.
这个新开头还有个额外的好处，它打破了上一季中过于紧张的爱情僵局，让年轻的恋人们踏上新的旅程。
Jim Harper (John Gallagher Jr.), still mooning over Maggie (Alison Pill), decides he needs to get away and assigns himself to the preprimary campaign of Mitt Romney. In New Hampshire he meets a beautiful but unwelcoming reporter, Hallie Shea (Grace Gummer, a daughter of Meryl Streep).
吉姆·哈珀（Jim Harper，小约翰·加拉格尔[John Gallagher Jr.]饰）依然痴迷玛吉（Maggie，艾莉森·菲尔[Alison Pill]饰），但是他觉得自己需要离开，所以安排自己去报道米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的竞选初选。他在新罕布什尔州遇到了一个美丽但不友好的记者哈莉·谢伊（Hallie Shea，格雷丝·古默[Grace Gummer]饰，她是梅丽尔·斯特里普[Meryl Streep]的一个女儿）。
The campaign’s press-hating press secretary, Taylor Warren (Constance Zimmer), treats Jim even more icily than Hallie does. Ms. Zimmer, who played a world-weary political reporter on the Netflix series “House of Cards,” here perfectly captures Republican operatives’ contempt for a press corps they view as in the tank for the enemy. When Jim tries to board the press bus, a junior campaign aide bans him and instructs him to take his car and spend his own money on gas.
罗姆尼竞选班子中的媒体秘书泰勒·沃伦（Taylor Warren，康斯坦斯·齐默[Constance Zimmer]饰）十分讨厌媒体，她对吉姆的态度比哈莉还冷淡。齐默在Netflix频道的电视剧《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)中扮演一个愤世嫉俗的政治记者。在本剧中，她完美地捕捉到了共和党工作人员对记者团的藐视，他们认为记者团都是支持对手的。当吉姆想登上记者团的巴士时，一个初级竞选助理阻止了他，让他自己开车，自己付油费。
“What’s Obama got it at?” the operative sneers. “$4.50 a gallon now?
“奥巴马现在订的油价是多少来着？”那个助理嘲讽地说道，“一加仑4.5美元？”
There are still many disquisitions — Jim harangues the bloggers on the bus for following campaign dictates like sheep and never asking tough questions; Sloan Sabbith (Olivia Munn) is in high dudgeon over drone attacks; and Will is as smugly superior as ever about everything from the lyrics to a song by the Who to the content of Article 240-2-7 of the New York State Penal Code (on disorderly conduct).
剧中仍有很多长篇演讲：吉姆抨击巴士上的博客写手们像绵羊一样遵从竞选指示，从不提出犀利的问题；斯隆·沙比什（Sloan Sabbith，奥利维娅·穆恩[Olivia Munn]饰）对无人机轰炸十分愤怒；威尔还是一如既往地自鸣得意，认为自己无所不知，不管是某某某唱的歌的歌词，还是纽约州刑法典的第240-2-7条（关于妨碍治安行为）。
The one-upmanship is dizzying, with characters reeling off statistics about drones, the death penalty, the credit crisis, African leaders and Willie Nelson like auctioneers at a cattle show. Will is the champion know-it-all, ordering an intern to look up all eight musicals that won a Pulitzer Prize — and list the composers, lyricists and librettists.
剧中处处可见想表现自己高人一等的情节：里面的人物能脱口说出各种具体数据，比如无人机、死刑、信贷危机、非洲领导人和威利·尼尔森(Willie Nelson)，就像家畜展览会上的拍卖人那样流利。威尔是其中最会表现自己的博闻广记的人，他命令一个实习生查阅获得普利策奖的所有8部音乐剧，并且要列出作曲人、作词人和剧本作者。
His certitude is contagious.
他的这种自信很有感染力。
“Can you tell me three differences between a Sunni and a Shia?” Maggie asks her boss, the executive producer MacKenzie McHale (Emily Mortimer).
“你能告诉我逊尼派和什叶派的三点不同吗？”玛吉这样询问自己的上司、执行制作人麦肯齐·麦克哈尔（MacKenzie McHale，艾米莉·莫迪默[Emily Mortimer]饰）。
“I can tell you more than three differences,” MacKenzie retorts. “I was shot at by both of them.”
“我能告诉你的不止三种不同，”麦肯齐反驳道，“这两派的人都击中过我。”
Mr. Sorkin introduced “The Newsroom” as a fantasy workplace where reporters are glib and clever but never cynical, and there is a right side to every story.
索金说《新闻编辑室》是个理想的工作场所，这里的记者伶牙俐齿、才思敏捷，但从不愤世嫉俗，每个故事都有光明的一面。
This season, he adds a more interesting layer by showing how even the best minds with the best intentions can be dead wrong.
在这一季，他还补充了一层更有趣的意思，向人们展示甚至连最聪明的头脑、最善良的用意都可能极端错误。