Anybody who’s had a hard time remembering what store used to be on a certain corner, despite having walked past it every day for years, may understand how ephemeral New York can be, even when it comes to landmarks etched in stone.
年复一年，人们即便每天都路过某个街角，却依然会想不起来那里曾有过什么商店。他们应该可以理解纽约是有多么的瞬息万变，就连蚀刻在石头上的标记也不例外。
One place to go to ward off those kinds of memory lapses is the seven-block stretch of Fifth Avenue between 14th Street and Washington Square Park in downtown Manhattan.
但是有个地方，与那种失忆绝缘，那就是位于曼哈顿下城区、介于第14街(14th Street)与华盛顿广场公园(Washington Square Park)之间那长达七个街区的第五大道(Fifth Avenue)。
This well-kept neighborhood-within-a-neighborhood, whose residents tend to cite the avenue as their address rather than the encompassing Greenwich Village, looks very similar to the way it did in the early-20th century — if one squints away modern cars and traffic lights.
这个坐落于住宅区中的住宅区，被保存得很完好。如果忽略那些现代化的汽车与交通灯的话，它的样子看起来仍和20世纪初十分相似。当地居民在提及自家住址时，常用的是这条街的名字，而非环绕此地的格林威治村(Greenwich Village)。
Some of its terra-cotta-trimmed high-rises, clearly proud of that timelessness, have hung on to the marquees and lobby desks they had in their earliest life as hotels, though apartments are now inside. Stone-lined alleyways have remained in place, too. Early this month, the Salmagundi Art Club, at East 12th Street, was hung with monochromatic paintings, just as it has been since 1878, when the annual black-and-white exhibition was inaugurated. And across the street at the brownstone First Presbyterian Church, organs regularly rumble, as they have for more than a century.
这里的一些傲然屹立、经久不衰的赤褐色高层大楼，依然保留着早年作为酒店时的那种大门罩和大堂柜台。只是如今，大楼内部已被改造成了公寓。几条石铺地面的小巷也和原来一模一样。本月初，东12街(East 12th Street)上的萨玛港笛艺术馆(Salmagundi Art Club)又举办了单色画展，正如这个一年一度的黑白画展自1878年初次开幕后，该馆一直以来的惯例一样。而在街对面那栋褐色砂石的第一长老会教堂(First Presbyterian Church)里，几台管风琴又发出了低沉的乐声，和一百多年来每天的这个时候也一样。
Nicknamed the Gold Coast, and perhaps the inspiration for the many others that have followed, the strip has also retained its ambience of exclusivity — though that need not put it out of reach, according to Amanda Ryman, a resident.
这条狭长的地带不但有“黄金海岸”(Gold Coast)的昵称，也是后来很多其它“黄金海岸”的灵感之源。此地依然保持着自身独一无二的氛围——却不一定是高不可攀的，一位居民阿曼达·莱曼(Amanda Ryman)这样说。
In 2012, a few months after graduating from college, Ms. Ryman, with her parents’ help, bought a wood-floored 370-square-foot-studio for $350,000 at 24 Fifth Avenue; after a thorough rent-versus-buy calculation, the family figured ownership was the smartest move, she said.
2012年，在大学毕业数月后，莱曼在父母的资助下以35万美元（约合人民币217.8万元）的价格，在第五大道24号购置了一套370平方英尺（约合34平方米）、木地板的单间公寓。在仔细权衡了租与买的利弊后，一家人认定，拥有房产是最聪明的做法，她说。
Ms. Ryman’s building, a 17-story former hotel with 420 units designed by Emery Roth, is convenient to New York University, where she is studying to be a dietitian. There are few views that compare to the one she takes in during walks to class: the Empire State Building, anchoring a farther-off section of Fifth, and Washington Square Park’s arch, to her right in the foreground.
莱曼的住处是一栋17层高、包括420个单元的前酒店大楼，由埃默里·罗斯(Emery Roth)设计。由此到纽约大学(New York University)非常方便，她要在那里学习当一名营养学家。很少有地方能媲美她上学途中看到的景色了：坐落在第五大道尽头的帝国大厦(Empire State Building)，以及右前方华盛顿广场公园(Washington Square Park)的拱门。
Nothing in Murray Hill, where many of her friends wound up after college, really comes close, Ms. Ryman added. “It’s homey, less concrete jungle and more residential,” she said. “It feels like an authentic New York place.”
她很多朋友大学毕业后都去了莫雷山(Murray Hill)，那里完全不一样。“这儿是一种家的感觉，不太像水泥森林，而更像个住宅区，”她说，“一个地地道道的、有纽约味儿的地方。”
The increasing numbers of young people carrying books — the New School, nearby, has recently widened its footprint — infuse the atmosphere with vitality. Their presence helps keep streets safe, says Marilyn Weigner, who has lived at the Brevoort on lower Fifth since 1979.
附近的新学院大学(New School)不久前扩大了校区，越来越多拿着书的年轻人为当地的氛围注入了活力。他们的出现让街道很有安全感，玛丽莲·维格纳(Marilyn Weigner)说，她从1979年起就在第五大道南(lower Fifth)的布雷武特(Brevoort)大楼中生活了。
Named for a once-powerful Dutch landowner, the beige-brick complex, a rare postwar on the street, has 270 units. Her current two-bedroom cost $450,000 in 1982, and she and her late husband, Arthur, spent $300,000 renovating. Today, Ms. Weigner thinks, it could sell for $3.5 million.
这栋米色砖砌的综合体有270个单元，以一位显赫一时的荷兰领主的名字命名，是这条街上不多见的一栋战后建筑。维格纳现在住的一套双卧室公寓，于1982年购置时花了45万美元（约合人民币280万元），但她和后来的丈夫阿瑟(Arthur)又花了30万美元（约合人民币187万元）进行翻修。现如今，维格纳认为，这套公寓可以卖到350万美元（约合人民币2178万元）了。
Another big asset of the area’s 20-somethings, said Ms. Weigner, who works as a real estate broker: “People like to go where there is youth, and there is tremendous youth in the area.”
那些20多岁的年轻人还带来了另一大优势，身为房地产经纪人的维格纳说：“人们喜欢去有朝气的地方，而这里就是朝气蓬勃的。”
What You’ll Find
这里有什么？
It begins in the turbulence of 14th Street, but lower Fifth seems much quieter than the avenue as it transects Manhattan farther north; having that effective dead-end at Washington Square helps.
这片社区从喧闹的14街(14th Street)起始，但由于第五大道南横贯了曼哈顿较靠北的部分，似乎就比主大道要安静得多；华盛顿广场(Washington Square)作为其名副其实的终点，也对此大有帮助。
Its buildings in general have a higher profile than those in much of the townhouse-and-tenement Village — they are around a dozen stories high, in most cases. They have doormen, too.
这里的大楼，总体上比格林威治村的更有吸引力，后者当中还有许多联排别墅和廉租公寓——多数情况下，这些大楼高约十来层，也配有门卫。
Much of this area is in a historic district, Manhattan’s first when created in 1969. One legacy is a line of no-nonsense red-brick co-ops atop limestone bases, built well before World War II. Another is found in those onetime hotels — like the desk in the dark-wood lobby at One Fifth, an Art Deco gem that tapers to a point. Then there is the ghost of the Hotel Grosvenor, at No. 35, now Rubin Hall, a New York University dorm.
此地大部分都位于一片历史街区的范围之内，也就是1969年设立的曼哈顿第一处历史街区。有一排肃穆的红色砖墙合作公寓楼，立于石灰岩地基上，建于二战爆发前若干年，是一处历史遗产。另一处遗产，可在那些曾经作为酒店的大楼里寻觅到——比如第五大道1号(One Fifth)的乌木大堂里那张桌子，宛如一颗削尖的装饰艺术风格宝石。还有位于35号的前格罗夫纳酒店(Hotel Grosvenor)，现在名为鲁宾楼(Rubin Hall)，是纽约大学的一栋学生宿舍了。
Stanford White was busy here, with and without his firm. In addition to the Washington Square Arch, his imprint is seen in renovations to the Presbyterian church, as well as to the nearby Church of the Ascension. Salmagundi claimed him as a member.
斯坦福·怀特（Stanford White，1853-1906，美国著名建筑师——译注）曾在这里为公司内外的事务忙碌。除华盛顿广场拱门(Washington Square Arch)外，在第一长老会教堂及其附近的亚森松教堂(Church of the Ascension)翻修工程中，也能找到他的踪迹。萨玛港笛艺术馆称他是该馆的一名成员。
Some modern development arrived before the historic designation. Besides the Brevoort, examples include Two Fifth Avenue, a white-brick colossus with a semicircular driveway and many terraces enjoying park views. A long-stalled four-unit condominium, still surrounded by a construction fence, gleams at No. 61.
一些当代的开发项目，在历史区设立前就落成了。除布雷武特大楼之外，还有第五大道2号(Two Fifth Avenue)这栋白色砖墙的巨型建筑，它带有一条半环状的车道及许多能观赏到公园景色的阳台。一栋久未建成的四单元共管公寓楼，仍被圈在一堵施工围墙中，在第五大道61号若隐若现。
Institutions of higher learning are spreading out. In 2010, New York University bought the longtime home of Forbes magazine, at No. 60, for $65 million; the building is set to empty out this year. And the New School’s University Center, a brass-and-glass tower at East 13th Street, recently opened as well, joining Cardozo Law School.
几所高校在该区内不断扩展。纽约大学(New York University)在2010年以6500万美元（约合人民币4亿元），买下了60号的那栋长期作为《福布斯》杂志总部的大楼；该楼将于今年全部清空。而新学院大学的大学中心(University Center)这栋位于东13街(East 13th Street)的黄铜及玻璃大厦，和卡多佐法学院(Cardozo Law School)一样也刚刚落成。
What You’ll Pay
要花多少钱？
In mid-February 30 condos and co-ops were listed on lower Fifth, and in buildings of similar size and pedigree on its side blocks, at an average of $1.88 million, according to Streeteasy.com.
二月中旬，在第五大道南及旁边街区的几栋大小和类型相近的公寓楼中，有30套共管公寓和合作公寓在挂牌出售，均价为188万美元（约合人民币1170万元），这是Streeteasy.com网的数据统计。
At the high end was a duplex at Two Fifth, with five bedrooms, four baths and terraces on both levels, but in need of renovation, at $6.5 million, the data show; the most affordable was a studio at 24 Fifth, with parquet floors and beamed ceilings, at $359,000.
该数据统计显示，位列最高端的是第五大道2号的一套复式公寓，带有五间卧室、四间浴室，上下两层都有阳台，但需要翻修，价格为650万美元（约合人民币4045万元）；而最经济的是第五大道24号的一套单间公寓，有拼花地板和带梁的天花板，售价是35.9万美元（约合人民币223万元）。
Brokers say that the area, because it’s so well established, is prepared for weathering ups and downs. There is evidence to back up that assertion: Prices were never really in free fall here after the financial crash, though activity has clearly picked up since.
地产经纪人说，由于这片地区已经发展得相当完善了，所以禁得住经济形势起起落落的考验。这一论断是有据可循的：金融危机之后，这里的地产价格从未真正大幅下跌过，而交易活动自此还明显变得更活跃了。
In 2009, the neighborhood saw 76 sales, at an average price of $1.45 million, according to Streeteasy; in 2013, there were 140, at an average of $1.84 million.
据Streeteasy统计，2009年，该住宅区以145万美元（约合人民币902万元）的均价，成交了76笔房产交易；2013年成交了140笔交易，均价在184万美元（约合人民币1145万元）。
“I think tradition wins out,” said Kenneth Barkoff, a broker with Barkoff Residential who is busy in the area. “People still want to pay for traditional. Those kinds of glassy condos are great, but if you are looking for true value, stick with the center of town.”
“我认为传统胜过一切，”房地产公司Barkoff Residential的经纪人肯尼斯·巴克福(Kenneth Barkoff)说，他在该区内的业务十分繁忙，“人们依然想为传统特色买单。那种玻璃幕墙的共管公寓大楼是很不错，但如果你要寻找真正有价值的地方，还得在市中心。”
What to Do
能做什么？
Otto, named in Italian for its address on East Eighth Street, is in the base of One Fifth. Hu Kitchen, which was recently advertising wild meatloaf and black mulberry kombucha, is at No. 78.
东8街上那家以意大利文作店名的奥托(Otto)披萨店，就在第五大道1号大楼的底商。最近在疯狂宣传烘肉卷和紫桑康普茶(kombucha)的胡氏厨房(Hu Kitchen)，则位于78号大楼。
But many residents strike out east or west into denser retail areas; University Place has collegiate-flavor restaurants, while the Avenue of the Americas offers gourmet groceries at Lifethyme Natural Market and Citarella.
但还是有许多居民舍弃了东街或西街，去往更为密集的商业区。大学区(University Place)有更适合学生口味的餐馆，而美洲大道(Avenue of the Americas)上则有Lifethyme Natural Market和Citarella的美食超市。
A pair of small theaters, Cinema Village (East 12th) and the Quad Cinema, (West 13th), are close by.
（东12街的）Cinema Village和（西13街的）Quad Cinema这两家小影院离得很近。