More than a decade ago, at a vintage computer fair in Silicon Valley, Dag Spicer had an opportunity to buy an original Apple-1 for $2,000. He passed. Any regrets? Not really, he said.
十多年前，在硅谷(Silicon Valley)的一次老式电脑展会上，达格·斯派塞(Dag Spicer)曾有机会以2000美元（约合1.23万元人民币）的价格购买一台最早的Apple-1电脑。但他错过了机会。他觉得遗憾吗？斯派塞表示，算不上多么遗憾。
“Of course,” Mr. Spicer added, “I could have paid off my mortgage now with what it would be worth.”
“当然，”斯派塞补充说，“以这款电脑现在的价值，我本来是可以付清抵押贷款的。”
Perhaps so. Last November, an Apple-1, also commonly known as the Apple I, sold for $640,000 at an auction in Germany. That sale surpassed the previous record of $374,500 set only five months earlier at Sotheby’s in New York.
他说得兴许没错。去年11月，在德国的一个拍卖会上，一台通常也被称作Apple I的Apple-1电脑以64万美元的价格成交，刷新了短短5个月前纽约苏富比(Sotheby's)拍卖会创下的37.45万美元的纪录。
The astronomical run-up in the price of the original Apple-1 machines — made in 1976 and priced at $666.66 (about $2,700 in current dollars) — is a story of the economics of scarcity and techno-fetishism, magnified by the mystique surrounding Apple and its founders, as the company has become one of the largest, most profitable corporations in the world.
最早的Apple-1电脑出现在1976年，当时售价为666.66美元（大约相当于现在的2700美元）。Apple-1价格的急剧攀升是短缺经济和科技拜物教创造的传奇，随着苹果成为世界上最大且盈利最多的公司之一，苹果公司(Apple)及其创始人的神秘性更为价格走高增添了动力。
The next test of the Apple-1 market comes on Saturday, at the same auction house in Cologne, Germany, where the record sale took place last November.
Apple-1市场将在本周六迎来下一个检验，地点还是德国科隆那家于去年11月创下纪录的拍卖行。
Even the auctioneer, Uwe Breker, expressed some surprise at the price reached last fall. For this week’s auction, the reserve price — the minimum sale price — is $116,000, and Mr. Breker conservatively estimated the likely range from $260,000 to $400,000. “But we will see,” he said.
就连拍卖师乌韦·布雷克尔(Uwe Breker)都对去年秋季的成交价格表示了些许意外。本周拍卖的保留价——也就是最低成交价——为11.6万美元，据布雷克尔的保守估计，成交价可能会在26万美元至40万美元之间。他说，“还是等着看吧。”
The auction market for the vintage machines, experts say, is thin and uncertain. For example, a nonworking Apple-1 failed to attract its reserve price of just over $75,000 at an auction last year in London. The record-setting auctions last year were of working originals, as is the Apple-1 going under the gavel on Saturday.
专家表示，老式电脑的拍卖市场目前比较惨淡，而且不稳定。比如，去年在伦敦的一场拍卖会上，一台无法工作的Apple-1电脑的保留价仅仅是略微高于7.5万美元，但却没能拍出。去年创纪录的拍卖会拍的都是仍能工作的电脑，本周六拍卖的Apple-1电脑也是如此。
The sky-high prices suggest irrational exuberance. But technology historians say there is a rational appeal to possessing an Apple-1. “It is Apple’s creation story, the physical artifact that traces this incredible success to its origins,” said Mr. Spicer, a senior curator at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif.
这样的天价让人想到非理性的奢侈消费。但技术历史学家表示，想要拥有Apple-1是一种理性诉求。加利福尼亚州山景市计算机历史博物馆(Computer History Museum)的馆长斯派塞说，“这是苹果的创造史，是追溯苹果难以置信的成功史的起源的有形遗物。”
The Apple-1, Mr. Spicer added, was instrumental in the early transition in personal computing from its hobbyist roots to becoming a huge commercial business. Others were there too, notably the MITS Altair, which was introduced before the Apple-1, and was the first personal computer that Microsoft’s founders, Bill Gates and Paul Allen, wrote software for.
斯宾塞补充说，在个人电脑从业余爱好向大规模商业转变的早期阶段，Apple-1电脑居功至伟。当时也有其他的一些电脑，尤其值得注意的是MITS公司在Apple-1之前推出的Altair电脑，那是首款由微软(Microsoft)创始人比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)和保罗·艾伦(Paul Allen)编写软件的个人电脑。
But Apple proved to be the enduring computer maker. And its founders embodied the hobbyist-commercial shift. Stephen G. Wozniak was the hardware-hacking engineer and Steven P. Jobs, who died in 2011 after a battle with cancer, was the business visionary.
然而，事实已经证明，苹果是一个长盛不衰的电脑制造商。苹果的创始人本身就体现了电脑从业余爱好向商业的转变。斯蒂芬·G·沃兹尼亚克(Stephen G. Wozniak)扮演了硬件制造工程师的角色，2011年因癌症去世的史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)则具有商业远见。
Apple-1’s are scarce. An estimated 175 to 200 were produced in the Jobs family garage in Los Altos, Calif. Mike Willegal, who maintains an online registry of Apple-1’s, has verified the existence of 46 of them. A software manager at Cisco, Mr. Willegal observed that there was a technical nostalgia to the Apple-1, recalling a simpler time in computing.
Apple-1非常稀缺。当年，他们在加利福尼亚州洛斯阿图斯乔布斯家的车库里制造了大约175至200台Apple-1电脑。维护Apple-1在线注册信息的迈克·维勒格(Mike Willegal)已经证实了其中46台电脑的存在。维勒格是思科公司(Cisco)的软件管理员，他注意到，有一种对Apple-1的技术怀旧之情，让人想起电脑发展史上的一个更为简单的时代。
“No one understands a whole computer system anymore,” Mr. Willegal said. “But Woz” — Mr. Wozniak’s nickname — “knew that board inside and out, and some people do today.”
“不再有人了解整个电脑系统了。”维勒格说，“不过沃兹对主板了如指掌，今天的某些人也一样。”沃兹是沃兹尼亚克的昵称。”
A computer motherboard with clusters of chips was all that the bare-bones Apple-1 offered. Users had to supply their own keyboards, monitors and power supplies. It had 4 kilobytes of memory; a basic MacBook Air has more than a million times that. It could be used to run primitive computer games and write simple programs.
架构简单的Apple-1提供的所有东西就是一块镶着密密麻麻的芯片的计算机主板。用户必须自行配备键盘、显示器和电源。它有4000字节的内存；一台低配版的苹果笔记本电脑(MacBook Air)的内存是Apple-1的一百多万倍。Apple-1可被用于运行原始的电脑游戏，以及编写简单的程序。
The Apple-1 was a reputation-building entry, but it was the Apple II, introduced a year later in 1977, that would sell in the millions and establish the company’s business. When Mr. Wozniak was designing the Apple II, he was also handling customer service for the Apple-1, a distracting time drain.
Apple-1为苹果进入市场树立了声誉，不过，让公司站稳脚跟的还是苹果于一年之后的1977年推出的Apple-II电脑，那种电脑的销量达到了数百万台。设计Apple-II的同时，沃兹尼亚克也处理Apple-1的客服业务，这项工作耗去了他大量的时间。
After the Apple II went on sale, the company began an aggressive trade-in program, offering Apple II’s and sometimes cash incentives in exchange for Apple-1’s, said Bob Luther, who is writing a book on the vintage machines, “The First Apple,” which he plans to self-publish, with help from a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign.
鲍勃·卢瑟(Bob Luther)说，Apple-II上市之后，公司启动了一项十分大胆的置换计划，以Apple-II甚或现金奖励来交换Apple-1。卢瑟正在写一本关于老式电脑的书，书名是《第一台苹果》(The First Apple)，他打算在Kickstarter公众筹款活动平台的帮助下，自行出版这本书。
In his book research, Mr. Luther called Michael Scott, Apple’s president from 1977 to 1981, and interviewed him about the trade-in program. As Mr. Luther recalled, Mr. Scott told him, “If we had done a better job, you and I wouldn’t be having this phone call.”
在为自己的著作做研究时，卢瑟给迈克尔·斯科特(Michael Scott)打了电话，就置换计划采访了他，后者曾在1977年到1981年间担任苹果公司的总裁。据卢瑟回忆，斯科特对他说，“如果我们当时的工作做得更好，你和我就不会打今天的这个电话了。”
“They just wanted the Apple-1 to go away,” said Mr. Luther, who bought an Apple-1 for $7,600 in 2004. (“Mine’s not for sale.”)
卢瑟说，“当时他们一心想让Apple-1退出市场。”卢瑟在2004年花7600美元购买了一台Apple-1。（“我的Apple-1不卖。”）
Auction prices for Apple-1’s have not yet settled on firm standards. But according to Richard Austin, head of books and manuscripts at Sotheby’s, who handled the auction of the Apple-1 for $374,500 last year, working machines in pristine condition with documentation command the highest prices. “And a story behind it helps,” Mr. Austin added.
Apple-1的拍卖价还没有一个稳定的标准。不过，苏富比拍卖行书籍手稿业务负责人理查德·奥斯汀(Richard Austin)表示，证件齐备、状态原始而尚能运行的Apple-1电脑要价最高。去年那场成交价37.45万美元的Apple-1拍卖就是奥斯汀主持的。他补充道，“它背后的故事也对要价有帮助。”
The Apple-1 being auctioned on Saturday has a story. Its original owner was Fred Hatfield, a former baseball player in the major leagues, an infielder who played from 1950 to 1958 for five teams including the Boston Red Sox and the Cincinnati Redlegs. His nickname was “Scrap Iron.” He died in 1998 at age 73.
周六拍卖的Apple-1就有一段故事。它最初的主人弗雷德·哈特菲尔德(Fred Hatfield)是美国职业棒球大联盟前选手，在1950年到1958年担任了五支球队的内野手，其中包括波士顿红袜队(Boston Red Sox)和辛辛那提红人队(Cincinnati Redlegs)。他的绰号是“铁屑”。他于1998年去世，享年73岁。
The documentation with the machine includes a letter to Mr. Hatfield, signed by Steve Jobs, offering him a new Apple II and a check for $400 for his Apple-1, said Mr. Breker, the German auctioneer. Mr. Hatfield declined the offer, for whatever reason.
德国拍卖师布雷克尔说，这次拍卖的Apple-1附带的文件包括一封致哈特菲尔德的信函，上面有史蒂夫·乔布斯的签名，信中提出给哈特菲尔德提供一部新的Apple-II电脑，以及一张400美元的支票，用于置换Apple-1。不管是什么原因，哈特菲尔德总之是拒绝了这份好意。
Mr. Breker is irritatingly discreet about the identity of the seller, saying only that he is a young American who works for a software company. “He brought it over here in a blanket,” Mr. Breker said.
布雷克尔对卖家的身份谨慎得令人窝火，只说卖家是一个年轻的美国人，为一家软件公司工作。布雷克尔说，“他是把电脑包在毯子里带来的。”