Last Memorial Day weekend, a team of New York Times photographers and reporters fanned out through Chicago to document how that city’s violence had affected people and neighborhoods. New York Times staff photographer Todd Heisler describes how he and his colleagues sought to portray the story in new ways. 
上周末的阵亡将士纪念日(Memorial Day)，《纽约时报》的一队摄影和文字记者分散到芝加哥各地，记录暴力对该市民众和社区的影响。《纽约时报》的摄影记者托德·海斯勒(Todd Heisler)介绍了他和同事是如何寻求以全新的方式呈现这次报道的。
Joshua Lott had just finished covering a news conference at Chicago Police Headquarters, where police officials announced the arrest of more than 100 gang members. Officials hoped this sweep would make a dent in the wave of gun violence that has plagued the city. As Mr. Lott was filing his photos at a nearby Starbucks, a woman ordered her coffee and walked out the door. Within seconds, she was mortally wounded by a stray bullet.
乔舒亚·洛特(Joshua Lott)刚结束了对芝加哥警察局总部的一场新闻发布会的报道。在发布会上，警方宣布逮捕了100多名帮派成员。他们希望这次行动能缓解困扰该市的枪支暴力浪潮。洛特在附近的一家星巴克上传照片期间，一名女子点了咖啡并走出店门。几秒钟后，她被一颗流弹击中身亡。
This was the third person he had seen shot this year.Chicago is going through yet another grim season of gun violence. While this sprawling city of 2.7 million people who live in dozens of neighborhoods is diverse, it is also segregated. That reality is alarmingly reflected by the victims of gun violence, with most bloodletting concentrated on the West and South Sides. The North Side, which I called home for many years, is mostly unaffected by the violence, save for a few pockets. Most neighborhoods see no shootings at all.
这是他今年看到的第三个遭枪击的人。芝加哥正在经历又一个严峻的枪支暴力高发期。这座庞大的城市生活着270万人，分布在几十个社区里。这是一个多元却又相互隔离的城市。这种现实体现在了枪支暴力的受害者上，令人担忧。大部分流血事件都集中在西区和南区。我曾住过多年的北区，除了几个小区域外基本不受暴力活动的影响。大部分社区根本不会看到枪击事件。
Mr. Lott, a Chicago native, has been covering crime in the city for The New York Times over the past year, working with the paper’s local reporting staff. As things have unfortunately kept getting worse, coverage has expanded.
作为土生土长的芝加哥人，洛特过去一年里一直和报社在当地的报道团队合作，为《纽约时报》报道该市的犯罪问题。随着情况令人遗憾地持续恶化，报道范围扩大了。
The paper set out to cover intensively the many shootings over the Memorial Day weekend, a notoriously violent time in the city. The logistics were complicated: A month earlier, the Chicago bureau staff spent a weekend gathering preliminary data. As we headed into the holiday weekend, we had a dispatcher who listened to scanners 24 hours a day and communicated with the team of reporters and photographers via Slack. We also each listened to the scanners constantly.
 《纽约时报》一开始是打算集中报道阵亡将士纪念日那个周末发生的多起枪击事件。这是该市有名的暴力事件多发时段。后勤安排很复杂：一个月前，芝加哥分社的员工用了一个周末收集初步数据。随着那个周末的临近，我们有了一个调度员，一天24小时监听警用频道，并通过Slack与记者和摄影师团队保持沟通。我们每个人也一直在听警用频道。
Mr. Lott, Alex Wroblewski, Sam Hodgson, Whitney Curtis and I worked round-the-clock on 12-hour shifts. Mr. Lott and Mr. Wroblewski, who both live in Chicago and have documented this story extensively, worked more or less from dusk to dawn. We put one photographer on the West Side and one on the South Side. About a dozen reporters worked overlapping nine-hour shifts.The challenge was that we were not necessarily covering new ground. The local news media have relentlessly chronicled this story, staffing overnight teams indefinitely to document this tragic cycle of violence. Photographers like Carlos Javier Ortiz and Jon Lowenstein have devoted years to exploring the complicated social aspects in communities affected by gun violence. Our goal was to cover the news, but with an added obligation to search for subtleties, to stop at scenes we might normally just drive past because they lacked visual drama. Or to visit places where shots rang out but no one — fortunately — was hit. To explore the rhythm of events that occur repeatedly, yet are all different in their own nuanced ways.
洛特、亚历克斯·罗布莱夫斯基(Alex Wroblewski)、萨姆·霍奇森(Sam Hodgson)、惠特尼·柯蒂斯(Whitney Curtis)和我全天值守，12个小时一班。住在芝加哥的洛特和罗布莱夫斯基全面记录了这次报道，他们几乎是从黄昏一直工作到黎明。我们在西区和南区分别安排了一名摄影师。大约12名记者实行九小时轮班制，各班次之间有重合。挑战在于，我们报道的不一定是新领域。当地的新闻媒体一直在报道这个题材，长期安排夜班团队记录这一不幸的暴力周期变化。卡洛斯·哈维尔·奥尔蒂斯(Carlos Javier Ortiz)和乔恩·洛温斯坦(Jon Lowenstein)等摄影师用了数年时间在受枪支暴力困扰的社区探究复杂的社会因素。我们的目标是报道新闻，但同时还有一项责任，那就是寻找微妙之处，有一些场面因为视觉上缺乏戏剧性，平常我们可能会略过，但现在我们要停下来记录它们。或是探访那些响起过枪声但幸运的是无人被击中的地方。去探索那些事件的节奏，它们反复发生，但又在细微之处显露它们彼此是截然不同的。