Hillary Rodham Clinton appears to have initially weathered a barrage of news about her use of a private email account when she was secretary of state and the practices of her family’s foundation, an indication that she is starting her second presidential bid with an unusual durability among Democratic voters.
希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)担任国务卿期间使用私人邮箱的做法，以及其家庭基金的操作招致了大量负面新闻。但她似乎经受住了这些打击，这意味着在面对民主党选民时，她的第二次总统竞选将具有不同寻常的持久力。
Americans now view Mrs. Clinton more favorably and as a stronger leader than they did earlier in the year, despite weeks of scrutiny about her ethics, a New York Times/CBS News poll has found. And nearly nine in 10 Democrats say the nation is ready to elect a woman president.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)的民意调查显示，尽管对她职业道德的严厉审视持续了几个星期，但与今年早些时候相比，美国人如今对希拉里的态度更为正面，认为她是一名更强大的领袖。此外，几乎90%的民主党人认为，美国已经准备好了选出一位女性总统。
Republican voters showed the most openness to considering Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and former Govs. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas and Jeb Bush of Florida among their party’s presidential contenders, the survey found.
调查发现，共和党选民最乐于让佛罗里达州参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)、阿肯色州前州长麦克·赫卡比(Mike Huckabee)以及佛罗里达州前州长的杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)成为该党的总统候选人。
Mrs. Clinton remains a polarizing figure — nearly the same percentage of Americans view her positively as negatively — but her favorability rating has improved by nine percentage points since the disclosure in late March that she did not use a government email account as secretary of state.
对克林顿的评价仍然呈两极化趋势——对她持正面看法和负面看法的人几乎一样多——但与3月被曝在担任国务卿期间没有使用政府邮箱时相比，她的支持率上升了九个百分点。
And the number of Americans who think Mrs. Clinton has strong qualities of leadership has risen by eight percentage points, to 65 percent from 57 percent, in that same period. Still, Mrs. Clinton begins this campaign with fewer voters saying she possesses such qualities than did in July 2007, near the outset of her first presidential bid.
此外，在同一时期，认为克林顿拥有强大领导力的美国人上升了八个百分点，从57%提高到了65%。不过，克林顿启动此次竞选时，认为她有领导力的选民人数，则少于2007年7月她第一次竞选总统的时候。
Mrs. Clinton already has one primary opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, and more Democrats are likely to enter the race, but her party seems particularly unbothered by questions relating to the emails and to the foundation that she, her husband and their daughter oversee.
克林顿已经有一个主要的竞争对手——佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，还有更多民主党人可能加入进来。不过，民主党人似乎毫不介意她的电子邮箱，以及她与丈夫、女儿运作的基金会引发的质疑。
While roughly 48 percent of Americans say Mrs. Clinton is honest and trustworthy, about four of five Democrats think she has those traits — and about the same numbers of Democrats say she shares the values most Americans try to live by.
全体美国人中，约有48%的人认为克林顿坦诚、值得信赖，而在民主党人当中，约有五分之四的人认为她有这些品质——同样比例的民主党人称，她持有的价值观，正是大多数美国人努力遵循的。
Fifty-two percent of Democrats said they knew nothing or very little about the Clinton Foundation, and only 10 percent said foreign donations to the foundation affected Mrs. Clinton’s decisions while she was the nation’s top diplomat. Just 9 percent of Democratic voters said they would not consider voting for Mrs. Clinton.
52%的民主党人表示，他们对克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)一无所知或知之甚少；只有10%的人表示，外国人对该基金会的捐款，影响了克林顿在担任美国最高外交官期间做出的决策。只有9%的民主党选民表示，他们不会考虑为克林顿投票。
”I think the whole thing is political and it’s going to wash away eventually,” Herbert Levengard, 83, a Democratic retiree from Maryland, said in a follow-up interview. “There are always going to be people who mess around and look for things to yell about, but I don’t care.”
“我觉得整件事情与政治有关，最终会被忘却，”马里兰州的民主党选民赫伯特·莱文加德(Herbert Levengard)随后接受采访时说。“总会有些人来捣乱，找茬大喊大叫，但我不在乎。”现年83岁的莱文加德已经退休。
Mrs. Clinton is also helped in her own party by the enduring popularity of former President Bill Clinton: Seventy-six percent of Democrats have a favorable view of him and only 4 percent view him unfavorably.
前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)持久的人气，帮她赢得了党内支持：76%的民主党人对比尔·克林顿持正面评价，只有4%的人持负面评价。
Democrats also assume that Mr. Clinton — who memorably said in his 1992 presidential bid that he and Mrs. Clinton represented “two for the price of one” — would play a substantial role were Mrs. Clinton to win the White House. Seven in 10 Democratic voters said he would have a great deal or some influence on Mrs. Clinton if she became president.
民主党人还认为，比尔·克林顿会在希拉里·克林顿成功入主白宫的过程中发挥重要作用。比尔·克林顿在1992年参加总统竞选时曾说，他和希拉里·克林顿是“买一送一”，民众对这一说法仍记忆犹新。70%的民主党选民表示，如果希拉里·克林顿成为总统，比尔·克林顿会对她产生一定影响或相当大的影响。
If Democrats seem largely content with the prospect of another Clinton in the White House, Republicans are not quite as certain about electing a third member of the Bush family president.
如果说民主党人基本上可以接受另一个克林顿入主白宫的前景，那么共和党人对布什家族的第三位成员当上总统的态度就不是那么确定了。
Nearly three-quarters of Republican voters view George W. Bush favorably, but almost 70 percent have not yet formed an opinion of his brother Jeb, a likely presidential candidate.
近四分之三的共和党选民对乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)持赞赏态度，但对于他的弟弟、本次可能参选总统的杰布，几乎有70%的人尚未形成看法。
The Republican primary is largely unformed, with many Republicans indicating openness to a variety of candidates in a large and still growing field.
共和党的初选基本上还没有确定成型，该党候选人数量较多而且仍在增加，很多共和党人表示对这些候选人持开放态度。
There is positive news for Jeb Bush, though. Forty-nine percent of conservative Republican voters think his stance on the issues is about right.
对于杰布·布什，一个好消息是，49%的保守派共和党选民认为他在很多问题上的立场是正确的。
While Mr. Bush has faced initial questions about whether he is sufficiently conservative to win a Republican primary, only 22 percent of Republican voters said his views were not conservative enough. Further, 60 percent of Republican voters said having the right experience was more important in a presidential candidate, while only 27 percent said they thought offering fresh ideas was more valuable.
虽然布什面临一个早期问题是，他是否足够保守，可以赢得共和党的初选，但现在只有22%的共和党选民说他的观点不够保守。此外，有60%的共和党选民表示，对于一名总统候选人而言，拥有合适的经历更加重要，只有27%的人认为提供新颖的想法更有价值。
What could also help Mr. Bush — along with the other governors or former governors seeking the GOP nomination — is that 73 percent of Republican voters said they preferred candidates with experience outside Washington.
对布什有利的另外一个方面是——对于希望获得共和党提名的其他州长或前州长也是如此——有73%的共和党选民说，他们更喜欢在华盛顿之外拥有经验的候选人。
“I would really prefer a candidate who has been a governor,” said Vinton Ernest, an 85-year-old Republican retiree in Las Vegas. “Running a state is just as difficult as running a government. It’s just multiplied when you’re running the country.”
“我真的更喜欢当过州长的候选人，” 拉斯维加斯共和党人文顿·欧内斯特(Vinton Ernest)说，他现年85岁，已经退休。“掌管一个州和掌管一个国家同样困难，只是后者的规模更大。”
Still, Mr. Rubio, 43, a first-term senator, seems to have more room to gain in popularity than Mr. Huckabee or Mr. Bush: Only 17 percent of Republicans said they would not consider supporting him, while 26 percent said they would not back Mr. Huckabee, and 23 percent ruled out supporting Mr. Bush.
尽管如此，相较于赫卡比和布什，正在第一个参议员任期内的鲁比奥似乎有更多的机会赢得人气：只有17%的共和党人表示不会考虑支持43岁的鲁比奥，而26%的人表示不会支持赫卡比，23%的人表示不会支持布什。
Republican voters were least resistant to Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin: only 13 percent said they would not consider voting for him. At the opposite extreme, 42 percent of Republicans said they would not consider voting for Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.
共和党选民的态度对威斯康星州州长斯科特·沃克(Scott Walker)最有利：只有13%的人表示不会考虑投票给他。情况最不利的是新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)， 42%的共和党人表示不会考虑投票给他。
Over all, Democrats enter the next presidential campaign with a better image than Republicans. Forty-three percent of Americans said they had a favorable opinion of the Democratic Party while only 29 percent said the same of the Republican Party.
总体而言，在进入下一届总统竞选之时，民主党的形象优于共和党。有43%的美国人表示对民主党抱有好感，而共和党只获得29%的人的好感。