TOKYO — Each day before dawn, the world’s largest fish market comes to life in frantic activity, a last holdout of an older, quainter Japan.
东京——每天黎明之前，世界上最大的鱼市活跃起来，到处充满紧张忙乱的活动。这是古老而优雅的日本留下的最后一个阵地。
Workers in rubber boots slosh through inch-deep water, while others dart by on motorized carts carrying plastic-foam boxes with every manner of creature that can be hauled from the sea, from dagger-shaped silver sardines and spider-like crabs to the deflated protoplasmic blobs of mysterious deep-sea predators. In one corner, auctioneers loudly hawk the huge frozen torsos of prize tuna laid in rows on the floor. Nearby, fishmongers in open-air stalls carve the tuna flesh into ruby-red bricks for sale to sushi bars and grocers.
穿着塑胶靴的工人们在几英寸深的水里走来走去，还有人开着载有塑料泡沫盒的电动平板车穿梭而过，盒子里装着能从海里打到的各种东西，从匕首形的银色沙丁鱼和蜘蛛样的螃蟹，到在神秘深海捕食的原生质怪物的干瘪躯体，应有尽有。拍卖商在一个角落里高声兜售着上等金枪鱼的硕大冷冻鱼身。不远处的露天摊位上，一些鱼贩子把金枪鱼切成泛着红宝石色泽的砖头大小的块儿，以便把它们卖给寿司店和食品杂货店。
Soon it will be gone. The city is planning to spend $4.5 billion to relocate the market — nicknamed Tsukiji for the neighborhood that surrounds it — to a modern, climate-controlled distribution center on a manufactured island in three years. The move is part of a broader face-lift Tokyo is planning before the 2020 Olympics.
这一切很快将消失。东京市正计划花45亿美元（约合275亿元人民币），在三年时间内，把筑地鱼市（鱼市的筑地[Tsukiji]的昵称取自环绕着它的街区）搬进一个建在人造岛屿上的、具有温度调节功能的现代化配送中心。这是东京为2020年奥运会做准备而启动的更大范围的改造工程之一。
For the many who have opposed the change, the relocation will bring not only the loss of a historic, 78-year-old marketplace, but also another blow to a vanishing way of life. Tsukiji has been a place where merchants haggled face-to-face, and where even the lowliest fishmonger displayed the obsession with freshness that helped Japan bring sushi to the world. Its passing is part of a broader transformation, away from the tiny mom-and-pop shops specializing in everything from tofu to rice cakes that have been increasingly replaced by big-box supermarkets and fast-food chains.
对很多反对搬迁的人来说，这不仅将会让城市失去一个已经运营了78年、具有历史意义的市场，而且还将给一种正在消失的生活方式带来又一次打击。筑地鱼市一直是商人们面对面地讨价还价的地方。在这里，即便是最卑微的鱼贩子也展现出对新鲜度的狂热，正是这种狂热帮助日本把寿司带到了全世界。而鱼市消失的背后，是一种更广泛的商业变迁：经营豆腐或米糕等各种单一物品的小商店，正逐渐被大型超市和快餐连锁店所取代。
Officials say they want to redevelop the market’s approximately 50 acres of land — valued in the billions of dollars — into high-rise apartment buildings and a tunnel that would connect Tokyo to the islands that will house new Olympic sites. They, and many who work at the market, also say the move is necessary to keep up with changing times, as the same fast-food chains and supermarkets that have changed Tokyo’s urban landscape have increasingly shunned Tsukiji as too expensive and slow.
政府官员称，他们想用筑地鱼市占有的约50英亩的土地（其估价高达数十亿美元），建造高层公寓楼和一条隧道，隧道将把东京和未来用来建设新奥运场馆的几个岛屿连接起来。他们以及不少在这个市场里工作的人都表示：为了跟上时代的步伐，有必要搬迁鱼市。随着快餐连锁店和大型超市改变着东京的城市面貌，人们也已逐渐冷落了筑地鱼市，因为他们嫌这里价格太贵、节奏太慢。
Opponents counter that the relocation is yet another example of the skewed priorities of Japan’s development-happy bureaucrats, who they say want to tear down what has become one of the city’s most popular tourist destinations to enrich big construction companies and real estate developers.
反对者们则认为，搬迁鱼市是以乐于搞城市开发的日本官僚们施政不当的又一例子。他们说，筑地鱼市是东京最著名的旅游景点之一，官僚们却想把它拆掉，好让大型建筑公司和房地产开发商从中渔利。
“Tsukiji was the beating heart of the sushi culture that spread across the world,” said Kazuki Kosaka, a former local assembly member who opposed the relocation. “And now it will be redeveloped into condominiums.”
“筑地鱼市是风靡世界各地的寿司文化跳动着的心脏，”反对搬迁的前地方议员小板一树(Kazuki Kosaka)说，“可它现在要被改建成分套出售单元的公寓楼。”
When moving Tsukiji was first proposed 14 years ago, it spurred widespread opposition, even leading to rare street protests. They were led by so-called middle wholesalers, the traditional middlemen who buy from big wholesalers and sell to restaurants and other retailers; they feared the new market would allow large corporate wholesalers to squeeze them out. In 2001, the plan appeared doomed after the discovery of toxic contaminants at the new site, which had housed a refinery for converting coal into natural gas.
14年前第一次有人提议搬迁筑地鱼市时，曾遭到普遍的反对，甚至引发了难得一见的街头抗议活动。抗议活动的发起者是所谓的中间批发商——即传统意义上的中间人，他们从大型批发商手里进货，再卖给餐馆和其他零售商。他们担心新建的市场将让大型批发公司把他们挤出去。2001年，在搬迁的新址上发现了有毒的污染物，那里曾有一座把煤炭转化为天然气的加工厂，当时看来，搬迁计划注定会完蛋。
But city officials were undeterred, chipping away at opposition by offering subsidies to help pay for the move. Last year, the union representing the middle wholesalers, who number about 700, switched its position and came out in favor of the move, which is considered a done deal barring some last-minute reprieve.
但市政府的官员并未因此受阻，他们用提供补贴帮助支付搬迁鱼市所需费用的方法，一点一点地削弱反对力量。去年，代表约700家中间批发商的联合会改变了立场，转而支持搬迁。此时，人们认为搬迁一事已经是板上钉钉，除非出现某种意料之外的转机。
After delays, Tokyo says it is on track to complete the yearlong cleanup of the new site by March. Workers there now spend their days scraping off several feet of contaminated top soil to replace it with clean dirt. But critics fret that the cleanup will not convince skeptics that seafood whose value lies partly in its pristineness is safe.
东京方面称，经过多年耽搁之后，为期一年的新址清理将于明年3月按计划完工。眼下，新址上的工人们每天在做的事情是：刮去几英尺厚的被污染的表层土壤，填上干净的土壤。但批评人士担心，对新址的清理恐怕无法让怀疑者相信这里出售的海鲜会是安全的，毕竟在某种程度上，纯净才是海鲜的价值之所在。
“The Tokyo government is using the Olympics as an excuse to distract people from the contamination issue,” said Makoto Nozue, 76, who has bought and sold tuna at the market for six decades. “Tsukiji is a globally known brand name and a cultural treasure. Why throw this away?”
“东京市政府以奥运会为借口，分散人们对污染问题的注意力，”现年76岁，已经在筑地鱼市买卖金枪鱼长达60年之久的野末诚(Makoto Nozue)说，“筑地是全球知名的品牌，同时也是一种文化瑰宝。为什么要把这些统统丢掉呢？”
Despite continuing concerns about pollutants, many critics say they have already resigned themselves to the inevitable loss of the fish market. They are now trying to figure out how to prevent the relocation from also causing the loss of the more than 400 restaurants and shops outside the market’s entrance.
尽管有对污染问题的持续担心，但许多批评人士说，他们已经接受了筑地鱼市终将消失的现实。他们现在正想方设法地避免鱼市外的400多家餐馆和商店因鱼市搬迁而消失。
Known as the “jogai,” or “outside the market,” this busy maze of stores also springs to life by 6 a.m., when throngs of sleepy Asian and Western visitors fill its narrow passageways. Shop owners shout “irasshai” (welcome) to entice tourists into cramped stalls selling sushi knives and fish freezers, tuna eyeballs and minke whale bacon.
这些被称为“场外”(jogai)的忙乱不堪、迷宫似分布的店铺，在每天早上6点时也突然活跃起来，迎接着大批来自亚洲和西方的游客。游客们挤在场外的狭窄通道中，店主们高喊着“欢迎”(irasshai)，力图把他们招呼到拥挤的摊位前，店铺里什么都有卖的：从寿司刀到鱼类冷冻机，从金枪鱼眼球到小须鲸培根。
Hiroyuki Ushioda, whose shop specializes in pickled mackerel and dried mullet roe, said he remained optimistic that the jogai had enough name recognition to thrive even without the market.
潮田博之(Hiroyuki Ushioda)的店铺专营腌鲭鱼和干乌鱼子，他说自己仍然乐观：场外市场具有足够的知名度，能离开筑地鱼市而继续兴旺发达。
“I suppose it is inevitable that the market must change with the times, but that doesn’t mean the neighborhood will disappear,” Mr. Ushioda, 33, said.
33岁的潮田说，“鱼市必须与时俱进，这一点是无法避免的。但这并不意味着附近的一切也将消失。”
Still, he and other merchants said the neighborhood was now bracing for the loss of a market that drew hundreds of thousands of visitors a year and pumped some 2 trillion yen, or $20 billion, annually into the local economy, mostly from tourism and the market’s main business of distributing seafood. Uzumi Yoshida, deputy head of Chuo ward, the borough-like district in Tokyo that includes Tsukiji, said the ward would spend $23 million to build a much smaller replacement market on what is now a nearby parking lot in the hopes of persuading some of the middlemen to stay.
不过，潮田和其他一些商贩都表示，他们正为应对筑地鱼市的消失做准备。筑地鱼市每年都能引到大量游客，通过旅游业和其自身的主营业务——海鲜销售，它一年能为当地经济贡献2万亿日元（相当于1250亿元人民币）。筑地鱼市所在的东京都中央区(Chuo ward)副区长吉田泉(Uzumi Yoshida)说，区政府将花2300万美元，在附近现有的停车场上修建一个小得多的鱼市，希望可以借此说服一些中间批发商留下来。
Even with the new, smaller market, Mr. Yoshida admitted that it might be hard to retain the neighborhood’s cramped, energetic atmosphere.
吉田承认，即使建一座小点的新鱼市，可能也很难保留住附近商铺中那种乱哄哄但充满活力的气氛。
It was that chaos that first led Shintaro Ishihara, the charismatic and willful former governor of Tokyo, to push to get rid of the market, which he called “dirty, small and unsafe.” City officials say one of the market’s biggest shortcomings is that it was built in 1935 to handle trains, not today’s trucks, leading to congestion every morning as hundreds of vehicles line nearby streets waiting for a loading berth to open.
正是这种混乱，令富有魅力但也很任性的前东京都知事石原慎太郎(Shintaro Ishihara)要采取行动，拆掉这个他称之为“肮脏、狭小、不安全”的市场。市政府官员称，筑地鱼市最大的缺点在于：它在1935年建成时，应付的是火车运货，而非今天的卡车运货，这个设计上的缺陷导致每天早晨都有大量卡车堵在附近街道上，等待卸货泊位空出来。
Without a new market built to handle more trucks, they say, there will be no way to reverse the steady decline in the amount of seafood going through Tsukiji: according to the city, the market handled 497,000 tons of seafood in 2011, down 15 percent from 2006.
他们说，如果不修建一个能应付更多卡车的新市场，筑地鱼市海鲜交易量不断下降的趋势就难以扭转。据东京市统计，2011年，该市场的海鲜交易量为49.7万吨，与2006年相比下降了15%。
The vice president of the middle wholesalers union, Tadao Ban, said it was that decline, and not the subsidies, that convinced the union it needed the new market to survive — and to keep alive another tradition: the passing of business to the next generation.
中间批发商联合会副主席潘忠雄(Tadao Ban)说，是交易量的下降——而非政府的补贴——让联合会确信，需要有一个新市场才能继续生存下去，同时也让另一种传统得以延续：生意从一代向下一代的传递。
“Without the new market, we won’t have businesses left,” said Mr. Ban, 68, who inherited his tuna wholesale company from his father, and hopes to hand it down to his son. “I grew up in this market, and have spent my life here, but I also want to have a future dream to pass down to my children.”
68岁的潘忠雄从父亲那里继承了金枪鱼批发公司，他想把公司传给自己的儿子。他说，“没有新市场，我们的生意就难以为继。我在这个市场里长大，我的一辈子在这儿度过，我也想有把生意传递给我孩子们的未来梦想。”