TOKYO — Ever since President Trump pulled out of planned talks with Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, officials from both countries have been scrambling to salvage the summit meeting and keep it on track for June 12 in Singapore.
东京——自从特朗普总统退出与朝鲜领导人金正恩原定举行的会晤以来，两国官员们一直在为挽救峰会、让其于6月12日如期在新加坡举行艰难地工作着。
A process that normally would take months is now being compressed into a matter of days, with meetings taking place between North Korean and American officials all over the world. Below, a rundown of who is meeting whom, and what they might be talking about.
这种通常需要几个月时间的工作，现在被压缩到几天的时间里，会议正在世界各地的朝鲜和美国官员之间进行。下面介绍一下谁在与谁会面，他们可能在谈些什么。
New York: Planning the road map for peace
纽约：规划和平路线图
Reporters in Beijing and New York were closely monitoring flight tracking boards in airports in both cities on Wednesday to figure when, exactly, Kim Yong-chol, one of Kim Jong-un’s most trusted aides, would arrive in New York to talk with Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state.
北京和纽约的记者周三都在各自城市的机场密切注视着显示航班动态的屏幕，以确定金正恩最信任的助手之一金英哲(Kim Yong-chol)究竟会在什么时候抵达纽约，与美国国务卿迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)会谈。
They face a monumental task: finding a path to denuclearization.
他们两人面临着一项艰巨的任务：找到一条实现无核化的道路。
Analysts believe that Mr. Pompeo will seek to clarify the North’s position on its nuclear program, which may have gotten muddled during Mr. Pompeo’s two visits to Pyongyang to meet with Kim Jong-un. Kim Yong-chol was also at those meetings.
分析人士认为，庞皮欧将寻求朝鲜澄清其核计划的立场，朝鲜的立场可能在庞皮欧两次访问平壤与金正恩会晤时搅乱了。那两次会晤时金英哲也在场。
“The gap they have to work on between them is a road map toward denuclearization,” said Ri Pyong Hwi, an associate professor at Korea University, a pro-Pyongyang institution in Tokyo. “How they narrow the gap is the point.”
“他们缩短他们之间的差距要做的就是实现无核化的路线图，”高丽大学(Korea University)副教授李柄辉(Ri Pyong Hwi)说。“他们如何缩小这个差距是关键。”
Kim Yong-chol has emerged as a prominent figure in the flurry of diplomacy in recent months.
在最近几个月的外交忙乱中，金英哲已开始以重要人物的身份崭露头角。
He led a delegation to the closing ceremony of the Pyeongchang Olympics in South Korea in February, a controversial move given that many South Koreans blame him for orchestrating a deadly attack in 2010.
今年2月，他率领代表团参加了韩国平昌冬季奥运会的闭幕式，此举颇有争议，因为许多韩国人指责他策划了一次2010年的致命打击。
Analysts said that Mr. Kim is a self-made man, a contrast to the leader’s other influential advisers who come from elite families. “He is very clever and eloquent,” said Moon Seong-mook, a senior analyst at the Korea Research Institute for National Strategy in Seoul. “He doesn’t smile. But he finds whatever way he can to make sure he reaches his goal.”
分析人士说，金英哲是一个靠自我奋斗上来的人，这与朝鲜领导人的其他有影响力的顾问有很大的不同，他们都来自精英家庭。“他非常聪明，口才很好，”设在首尔的韩国国家战略研究所(Korea Research Institute for National Strategy)的高级分析师文圣默(Moon Seong-mook)说。“他没有笑脸。但他想尽一切办法确保实现自己的目标。”
Singapore: A focus on logistics
新加坡：重点是组织工作
Pulling off a summit meeting by June 12 will require a herculean focus on all kinds of details. Singapore would be the farthest that Kim Jong-un has traveled since coming to power in 2011, and for both Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump, there are daunting security concerns.
要想让6月12日的峰会成功举行，还需要不放过任何细节的艰巨工作。新加坡将是金正恩自2011年上台以来出访的最远之地，不管是对金正恩、还是对特朗普而言，这里的安全问题都是巨大的。
Both Kim Chang-son, director of North Korea’s state affairs commission secretariat, and an American delegation led by Joe Hagin, a deputy White House chief of staff, arrived in Singapore on Monday to work out security measures, where and when various meetings would take place, which events would be open to the press and which officials would be in the negotiating rooms. Given both Mr. Trump’s and Mr. Kim’s fondness for photo ops, Mr. Kim and Mr. Hagin may start to scope out some visually striking spots.
朝鲜国务委员会秘书处主任金昌善(Kim Chang-son)、以及一个由白宫副幕僚长乔·哈金(Joe Hagin)带领的美国代表团都已于周一抵达新加坡，对安全措施进行安排，还要把会晤的时间地点、哪些活动将对媒体开放、哪些官员将参加谈判等事宜定下来。考虑到特朗普和金正恩都喜欢接受拍照的时机，金昌善和哈金也许要开始寻找一些视觉上诱人的场地。
Kim Chang-son is sometimes called the chief butler to the family of Kim Jong-un and has looked after the North Korean leader since he was a child. When Kim Yo-jong, Kim Jong-un’s sister, traveled to the Olympics in February, South Korean media spotted Kim Chang-son taking her coat.
金昌善有时被人称为金正恩家的首席管家，他从金正恩小时候起就一直在照顾这位朝鲜领导人。今年2月，金正恩的妹妹金与正出席奥运会时，韩国媒体曾看到金昌善帮她拿外套。
According to Tokyo Broadcasting System, a Japanese news network, Mr. Kim told reporters in Beijing late Monday night that he was headed to Singapore “to have fun.”
据日本新闻网东京放送(Tokyo Broadcasting System)报道，金昌善周一晚间在北京对记者说，他前往新加坡是去“找乐子”的。
Reporters on the same flight saw him reading a briefing paper that said “in order to guarantee the results of the U.S.-North Korea summit meeting, guarantee the safety of Chairman Kim Jong Un above all else.”
搭乘同一航班的记者在飞机上看到金昌善在阅读一份传达文件，上面写着：“为保证朝美首脑会议成功，确保金正恩委员长的安全是高于一切的任务。”
The DMZ: Ironing out an agenda
非军事区：敲定议程
When Mr. Trump sent his letter last week to Kim Jong-un canceling — or at least postponing — the summit meeting, one of the likely triggers was a statement from Choe Son Hui, a North Korean vice foreign minister, in which she criticized Vice President Mike Pence for “ignorant and stupid” remarks comparing North Korea and Libya.
特朗普上周给金正恩写信，取消——或者说至少是推迟——会晤时，可能的导火索之一是朝鲜外务省副相崔善姬(Choe Son Hui)的一番言论。崔善姬抨击美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)将朝鲜和利比亚作比的言论“无知且愚蠢”。
But she has been representing the North in talks with an American delegation led by Sung Kim, a veteran diplomat and ambassador to the Philippines. The two sides met on Sunday in Panmunjom, a “truce village” in the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two Koreas.
但崔善姬一直在代表朝鲜同资深外交官、美国驻菲律宾大使金成(Sung Kim)率领的一个美国代表团谈判。双方周日在两国之间非军事区内的“停战村”板门店会面。
The diplomats and technical experts are probably working out an agenda for the meeting, and the American side is looking to secure detailed commitments from Kim Jong-un that his regime is willing to abandon its nuclear weapons program.
外交官和技术专家可能正在为会晤制定议程。美方希望金正恩就他领导的政权愿意放弃核武器计划做出详细的承诺。
Analysts said that Ms. Choe and Mr. Kim were likely to work on drafts of a potential declaration that could be issued at the summit meeting, with wording from North Korea about getting rid of its nuclear weapons and a guarantee from the United States that it would not interfere with the North’s regime or demand redress for human rights abuses.
分析人士称，崔善姬和金成可能会起草也许会在会晤期间发表的宣言。宣言的内容可能包括朝鲜放弃自己的核武器，美国保证不干涉朝鲜的政权，或不要求其为侵犯人权的行为做出赔偿。
“Ms. Choe is probably asking for nonaggression and even the stopping of joint military drills between the U.S. and South Korea because the North feels threatened by it,” said Chon Hyun-joon, a visiting professor at Woosuk University in Jeongju City. “The North Koreans are very good at getting what they want at the last minute, while it seems Trump is a little more impatient.”
“崔善姬可能会要求美国不侵略朝鲜，甚至停止美韩联合军演，因为朝鲜觉得受到了威胁，”位于韩国全州的又石大学(Woosuk University)客座教授全玄俊（Chon Hyun-joon，音）说。“朝鲜很擅长在最后一刻得到自己想要的东西，而特朗普似乎又有些不耐烦。”
Ms. Choe was an interpreter for the North Koreans during previous nuclear negotiations known as the six-party talks, which started in 2003 and eventually broke down in 2009. She is likely to have previously met Sung Kim at conferences in Europe as well.
在之前被称作六方会谈的核谈判中，崔善姬是朝方的翻译。六方会谈始于2003年，最终在2009年破裂。她可能之前在欧洲的会议上和金成见过面。
Mitoji Yabunaka, a retired Japanese diplomat who represented Japan in the six-party talks, said that although Ms. Choe was officially an interpreter at the time, he sensed that she had more power and influence than that role might have indicated. She had an “impressive presence,” he said.
曾在六方会谈中代表日本的退休外交官薮中三十二(Mitoji Yabunaka)说，虽然崔善姬当时的正式身份是翻译，但他感觉到她的权力和影响力比这个角色所意味的要大。她有着“令人惊讶的影响力，”他说。