TOKYO — It seems as if all they would really need is a room with a table and some chairs.
东京——他们真正需要的似乎只是一个有桌子和椅子的房间。
The reality, however, is that planning the coming summit meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un to discuss North Korea’s nuclear future will require deciding countless, infinitesimal details, often via tricky diplomatic negotiations.
但是，现实情况是，为了计划特朗普总统和金正恩(Kim Jong-un)即将举行的讨论朝鲜核未来的峰会，需要通过复杂的外交谈判来决定无数微小的细节。
It doesn’t help that any of those details could be thrown out at the last minute by either leader, both of whom have shown a tendency to depart from the script.
这些细节中的任何一项，都有可能在最后一刻被其中任何一位领导人否决，这就增加了难度。这两位领导人都表现出了喜欢偏离剧本的倾向。
Even before Mr. Trump declared last Friday that the summit meeting was back on, delegations from the United States and North Korea had arrived in Singapore last week to work out the logistics of the June 12 conference.
甚至在特朗普上周五宣布重启峰会之前，美国和朝鲜的代表团上周就已抵达新加坡，为6月12日的会议安排后勤工作。
The two sides will be negotiating everything from the site of the meeting to which leader sits where at the table, who is allowed in the room with them, the number of meals and breaks, what to use in a toast between the two leaders (given that Mr. Trump does not drink alcohol), what gifts could be exchanged and who will pay for what.
双方将协商一切细节，包括会面地点、两位领导人分别坐在会议桌的什么位置，允许哪些人待在房间里，用餐和茶歇的次数，两国领导人祝酒时喝什么（鉴于特朗普不喝酒），可以交换什么礼物，以及谁支付哪些费用。
Without question, the top priority for both sides is security. As the host country, Singapore will be in charge of ensuring security on roads and in other public facilities, but the United States and North Korea will oversee the safety of their own leaders.
毫无疑问，双方首先考虑的都是安全。作为东道国，新加坡将负责确保道路和其他公共设施的安全，但美国和朝鲜将负责本国领导人的安全。
Any time the American president makes an international trip, he is accompanied by a legion of Secret Service personnel, as well as by limousines, helicopters and other protective vehicles. Mr. Kim has little experience traveling abroad as leader. Singapore will be the farthest distance he has traveled since coming to power in 2011.
美国总统每次进行国际访问，身边都有一大批特勤人员，以及豪华轿车和直升机等保护性交通工具。金正恩作为国家领导人出国旅行的经验很少。新加坡将是他自2011年上台以来去得最远的地方。
It is unusual for two leaders to hold a one-on-one summit meeting in a third country unless they are meeting on the sidelines of an international gathering. With Singapore as the venue, Mr. Trump may have an upper hand, veteran diplomats said.
除了在国际会议的场合，两个国家领导人在第三国举行一对一的峰会很不寻常。多位资深外交官表示，将新加坡作为会场，特朗普可能占了上风。
Mr. Kim is likely to feel more uncomfortable “the farther away you do it from the Korean Peninsula,” said Evans J.R. Revere, a former State Department diplomat who specializes in East Asia. “That would work to Trump’s advantage.”
负责东亚事务的前美国国务院外交官李维亚(Evans J.R. Revere)表示，“离朝鲜半岛越远”，金正恩可能觉得越不自在，“这将有利于特朗普”。
Officials have not yet announced exactly where the landmark meeting will take place in Singapore. The Shangri-La Hotel has been favored by previous American presidents as a place to stay, while a former Singaporean official suggested that the meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim was likely to take place on the resort island of Sentosa, just off the southern tip of Singapore.
官员们尚未宣布这次具有里程碑意义的会议将在新加坡的什么地方举行。香格里拉酒店(Shangri-La Hotel)一直受到美国历届总统的青睐，但一名前新加坡官员表示，特朗普和金正恩的会晤可能会在离新加坡南端不远的度假岛屿圣淘沙举行。
Joe Hagin, a deputy White House chief of staff, has been staying on the island. Another Singaporean official suggested that there could be a series of events held at different locations.
白宫副幕僚长乔·哈金(Joe Hagin)最近一直在那个岛上。另一名新加坡官员表示，可能会在不同的地点举行一系列活动。
On Friday, The Washington Post reported that the team led by Mr. Hagin was haggling with a group of North Korean bureaucrats led by Kim Chang-son, the director of North Korea’s state affairs commission secretariat, over who would pay the hotel bill for Mr. Kim and his entourage.
周五，《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)报道称，哈金率领的团队正在与朝鲜国务委员会秘书处主任金昌善(Kim Chang-son)率领的一群朝鲜官员争论金正恩及其随从的酒店费用该由谁来支付。
North Korea has been known to push other governments to pay its expenses when its officials travel abroad. During the Pyeongchang Olympics in South Korea in February, for example, the South Korean government paid the hotel, meal and transportation expenses, about $225,000, for a North Korean delegation that included Kim Yo-jong, Kim Jong-un’s sister.
朝鲜向来会要求其他国家支付朝鲜官员出国访问的开支。例如，在今年2月的韩国平昌奥运会期间，韩国政府为朝鲜代表团支付了约22.5万美元的酒店、餐饮和交通费，包括金正恩的妹妹金与正(Kim Yo-jong)的开支。
South Korea also paid an additional $121,000 for a delegation from North Korea to attend the Para-Olympic Games.
韩国还为朝鲜代表团参加残奥会另外支付了12.1万美元。
Speaking at the annual Shangri-La Dialogue, a regional security conference over the weekend, Ng Eng Hen, the Singaporean defense minister, said his government was willing to pay for some of the costs of the North Korean summit meeting. He did not specify how much Singapore would pay or what exactly it would cover.
上周末，新加坡国防部长黄永宏(Ng Eng Hen)在一年一度的地区安全会议香格里拉对话(Shangri-La Dialogue)上表示，新加坡政府愿意支付朝鲜参加峰会的部分费用。他没有具体说明新加坡将支付多少钱，或者将支付哪部分的费用。
The question of who will pay for what goes to the heart of who is really hosting the meeting. That question hovers over many other decisions, including who will determine the menus for meals, as well as who walks into the meeting venue first.
谁支付哪些费用，这涉及谁是这次会议真正的东道主这一核心问题。这个问题主导着其他许多决策，包括谁将决定用餐的菜单，以及谁将首先进入会场。
“It will all be choreographed through with the president and Mr. Kim,” said Wendy R. Sherman, a seasoned former American diplomat who accompanied Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to Pyongyang in 2000 to meet Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il. Each side, she said, will “try to add some steps to get advantage.”
“一切都是要和总统与金正恩一起精心设计过的，”美国前外交官温蒂·R·舍曼(Wendy R. Sherman)说，经验丰富的她曾于2000年陪同国务卿玛德琳·K·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine K. Albright)访问平壤，会见金正恩的父亲金正日。她说，各方都会“增加一些能抢占优势的措施”。
While Mr. Trump is known to approach encounters with foreign leaders in a casual manner or to disregard formal protocol, diplomats who have planned previous meetings with North Korean officials say they are highly status conscious and will pay attention to details such as which side of the table Mr. Kim is seated.
众所周知，特朗普在与外国领导人打交道时向来态度随意，或不顾及正式礼节，但曾与朝鲜官员安排过之前会晤的外交官表示，朝鲜是一个高度重视身份地位的国家，会十分关注比如特朗普坐在桌子的哪一边之类的细节。
Typically, the person with the higher status enters the summit venue last and sits farthest from the door, said a Japanese official who had attended past dialogues between Japanese and North Korean officials. One solution: Choose a room with two entrances.
曾参加过之前日朝官员对话的日本官员表示，一般来说，身份更高的人会最后进入会场，坐得离门最远。一个解决方案是：选择有两个入口的房间。
Details down to how many steps each leader should take before stopping for cameras will be meticulously planned. In staging photo opportunities, the two sides may negotiate whether flags from both countries will appear in any official pictures from the summit meeting.
很小的细节都将得到周密计划，比如领导人在停下来拍照前要走多少步。在拍摄照片时，双方可能会讨论本次会晤的官方照片中是否应有两国国旗出现。
“Will they recognize North Korea formally as a country?” said Mitoji Yabunaka, a longtime diplomat and former vice minister at Japan’s Foreign Ministry, explaining the significance of a North Korean flag possibly being displayed when the United States and North Korea do not formally have diplomatic relations.
“这会正式承认朝鲜是一个国家吗？”曾任外交官多年的日本外交部前副部长薮中三十二(Mitoji Yabunaka)说，他解释了在美国和朝鲜还没有正式外交关系的情况下摆出朝鲜国旗的可能意义。
Perhaps the biggest advantage for the United States in holding the meeting in Singapore is that it is not in Pyongyang, where the North Koreans would control every detail.
对美国而言，会晤在新加坡举行的最大优势或许就是这里不是朝鲜，朝鲜人不能控制一切细节。
“Having this in Singapore is a big plus because you’re not at the mercy of the North Koreans,” Ms. Sherman said.
“在新加坡举行有很大好处，因为你不会受朝鲜人摆布，”舍曼说。
During Ms. Albright’s trip to Pyongyang in 2000, North Korean officials were “unable really to commit to specific times and places, and we did not find out where and when Secretary Albright would meet with Kim Jong-il until she arrived,” said Thomas Hubbard, a former American diplomat and ambassador to Seoul and the Philippines who helped plan Ms. Albright’s trip and accompanied her to Pyongyang.
美国前外交官员、驻首尔和菲律宾大使托马斯·赫伯特(Thomas Hubbard)曾协助奥尔布赖特安排行程并陪同她去往平壤。他表示，在奥尔布赖特2000年访问平壤期间，朝鲜官员“无法就某个确定的时间和地点作出承诺，而且在奥尔布赖特抵达朝鲜之前，我们都不知道她会在哪里、在何时会见金正日”。
With optics likely to play as big a role as substance in the Singapore meeting, the third-country location should prevent North Korea from staging a propaganda coup as it did when Kim Jong-il took Ms. Albright to a mass stadium event in Pyongyang, where she had to sit next to him at a spectacle of performers celebrating the cult of their leader.
在新加坡举行的这次会晤，形式和实质可能同样重要，但位于第三国的会晤地点应该可以阻止朝鲜发起政治宣传战，像金正日对待奥尔布赖特一样。他把奥尔布赖特带往了平壤的一个大型体育馆，她不得不坐在他旁边，看一场对他们的领袖表达狂热赞美的盛大演出。
The younger Mr. Kim could still pull off a propaganda victory even if he’s not at home. In his first meeting with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea in April at the border village of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized Zone separating the two Koreas, Mr. Kim captivated the world with a simple gesture when he held out his hand and suggested that Mr. Moon briefly step over the demarcation line to the North.
可即使不在国内，金正恩也可以实现宣传胜利。四月，金正恩与文在寅在朝韩非军事区的边境村板门店进行了首次会晤，他向文在寅伸出手，示意文在寅短暂地跨过非军事区的边界走进朝鲜。这个简单的举动震惊了世界。
Diplomats who have previously met with North Korean officials said the North Koreans could foil well-laid plans simply by refusing to participate or by changing their tone.
曾与朝鲜官员打过照面的外交官都表示，朝鲜可以只是简单拒绝参与或改变态度，就能打破他们精心筹备的计划。
“The American diplomats should be careful,” said Takeo Harada, a former Japanese diplomat who was the chief desk officer for the North Korean desk in the Foreign Ministry when Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi visited Pyongyang. “Even though they could be very friendly during preparation talks, you never know how the North Korean side would behave in the last moment during the meeting between Trump and Kim Jong-un.”
“美国外交官员应该当心，”日本前外交官原田武夫说，他在日本首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)访问平壤期间曾任外交部朝鲜办公室主任。“尽管他们可能会在谈话的准备期间十分友好，但你永远都不知道朝方在特朗普与金正恩举行会晤的最后时刻会如何表现。”