MEXICO CITY — He became a byword for government incompetence, a figure who seemed invincible after he burrowed his way out of the country's most secure prison.
墨西哥城——在他挖地道逃出这个国家最戒备森严的监狱之后，他变成了政府无能的代名词，一个似乎无所不能的人物。
But Friday, nearly six months after his escape, Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug lord known as El Chapo, was captured again after a fierce gunbattle near the coast in his home state of Sinaloa, Mexican officials said.
但是本周五，墨西哥官员说，乔奎因·古兹曼·洛埃拉(Joaquín Guzmán Loera)，绰号“矮子”(EI Chapo)的墨西哥大毒枭，在他越狱将近六个月之后，在他家乡锡那罗亚州(Sinaloa)的海滩附近经过一场激烈枪战之后，再一次被逮捕。
“Mission accomplished: We have him,” President Enrique Peña Nieto announced.
“任务完成：我们抓到了他。”总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)宣布。
The arrest ended one of the government's most extensive manhunts, involving every law enforcement agency in the country and help from the United States.
这次逮捕结束了政府史上最大规模之一的搜捕行动，包括这个国家的每个法律执法机构的参与以及来自美国的帮助。
But it was the marines, Mexico's most-trusted military force, who managed to capture the fugitive in an early morning raid that left five people dead, Mexican authorities said. A U.S. official described the raid as “a Mexican op, planned and executed by Mexico.”
但这次，墨西哥当局说，是墨西哥最值得信赖的军事力量，海军陆战队，在一场导致五人死亡的凌晨突袭中设法逮住了这名逃犯。一名美国官员描述这次突袭是，“一次墨西哥人的行动，由墨西哥策划并执行。”
The government said late Friday that Mr. Guzmán had been planning a movie about his life and that his people had been in contact with actors and producers, which had allowed the authorities to track him down. It said that the authorities had been watching a home in Los Mochis for more than a month when law enforcement officers finally saw movement on Thursday. Officials said that during the ensuing raid, Mr. Guzmán managed to slip away through the sewers, and then he surfaced, stole a car and was apprehended. The authorities took him to a hotel to wait for backup.
周五晚些时候政府说，古兹曼先生一直在筹划一个以他自己人生为题材的电影，他的手下已经在与演员和制片人接触，这使得当局能够追踪到他。政府说当局已经监视洛斯莫奇斯市(Los Mochis)一处住宅超过一个月直到周四警方最终发现动静。官员说，在随后发生的突袭中，古兹曼先生设法从下水道溜走，随后爬出路面偷了一辆车，就被逮捕了。当局把他带到一个酒店来等待支援力量。
The drug lord's capture concludes a deeply embarrassing chapter for the government of Peña Nieto, which has been waylaid by a series of security and corruption scandals that reached their low point with Guzmán's daring escape.
这名大毒枭的被捕终止了培尼亚·涅托政府极度尴尬的一个篇章，这是由一系列治安和腐败丑闻所引起，并在古兹曼的大胆越狱之后达到一个低谷。
Now, a looming question is whether Mexican authorities will try to hold Guzmán for a third time — he has already escaped from prison twice — or whether they will hand him over to the Americans.
现在，一个耸现的问题是，墨西哥当局是否将试图第三次保留古兹曼——他已经越狱两次——或者他们是否会将他移交给美国人。
Mexican officials are debating the issue. Some are arguing for a “fast-track” extradition that could put him in the United States quickly, while others want to continue a previous process that could take months, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions. Guzmán, the head of Mexico's most powerful cartel, is facing indictments in at least seven U.S. courts on charges that include narcotics trafficking and murder.
墨西哥官员正在就此展开辩论。根据两位对此次辩论知情的人士的消息，一些人赞成通过一个快速通道把他迅速引渡到美国，但另一些人想继续先前的可能耗时数月的引渡程序。古兹曼，这位墨西哥势力最强的贩毒集团头子，正在面临来自至少七个美国法庭的包括毒品交易和谋杀指控的起诉。
With operations that span much of Mexico, his organization has specialized in smuggling tons of drugs into the United States through vast networks of tunnels deep beneath the border. His success has made him among the richest drug dealers in history: Forbes magazine estimated his net worth at close to $1 billion.
他的组织运行横跨墨西哥大部分地区，专门通过边境地区地下深处的庞大地道网络来走私大量毒品。他的成功已经使他成为历史上最富有的毒枭之一：福布斯杂志估计他的净资产接近十亿美金。
Guzmán stunned the world last summer when he stepped into the shower in his cell, in the most secure wing of the prison, and abruptly vanished in full view of a video camera. Guards later discovered a small hole in the shower floor.
去年夏天古兹曼使全世界目瞪口呆，当时他从监狱的最戒备森严的侧翼里的自己的牢房走入淋浴区，突然在一个监控摄像画面中消失。警卫后来发现淋浴区地板上有一个小洞口。
It led to a mile-long tunnel to a construction site. The tunnel was tall enough for Guzmán to walk through standing upright — his nickname translates to Shorty — and had been dug more than 30 feet underground. It was equipped with lighting, ventilation and a motorcycle on rails. Some engineers estimated that the tunnel took more than a year and at least $1 million to build.
这个洞口连向一个一英里(约合1.6公里)长的地道，隧道尽头是一处建筑工地。这个高到足够古兹曼站直了走完的地道——他的绰号翻译为矮子——已经被挖到地下超过三十英尺(约合9.1米)深。地道装备有灯光照明，通风设备和一辆在轨道上的摩托车。一些工程师估算地道需要超过一年以上的时间来建造，至少花费一百万美金。
The prison break humiliated Peña Nieto's government, which had proclaimed the arrest of Guzmán and leaders of other drug cartels as crucial achievements in restoring order and sovereignty to a country long beleaguered by the horrific violence associated with organized crime. It was particularly embarrassing because Guzmán had already escaped from prison in 2001, when his conspirators managed to smuggle him out. By some accounts, he escaped that time by hiding in a laundry bin.
这次越狱羞辱了培尼亚·涅托政府，它一直声称古兹曼和其他贩毒集团的头子们的被捕是对一个因为有组织犯罪的极端暴力而长期饱受批评的国家重塑秩序和国家主权的关键性成就。特别尴尬的是因为古兹曼在2001年已经从监狱成功越狱过一次，当时他的同谋设法把他偷带出去。根据有些说法，那次他是藏在洗衣箱里得以逃出。
There are still major questions ahead, including Guzmán's potential extradition to the United States. Shortly after Guzmán was captured in 2014, the attorney general of Mexico at the time refused to extradite him, saying that the criminal would serve his time in Mexico before he was sent to another country.
现在还有些重大问题，包括古兹曼的向美国引渡的可能性。就在2014年古兹曼刚被抓住不久，墨西哥的总检察长当时拒绝引渡他，他说这个罪犯在被送往其他国家之前将在墨西哥服刑。
Officials and analysts said it was an effort to show sovereignty and put some distance between the Mexican authorities and their U.S. counterparts, who often used a heavy hand to influence policy in Mexico.
官员和分析家说那是一次展示国家主权和使墨西哥当局与他们的美国政府对应机构保持距离的努力，美国这些机构经常强硬地插手影响墨西哥政策。
But that stance came to haunt the Peña Nieto administration after the kingpin escaped. The United States had issued a formal request for his extradition less than three weeks before Guzmán broke out.
但是在大毒贩逃脱之后这种立场令培尼亚·涅托当局很苦恼。在古兹曼逃脱之前不到三个礼拜，美国政府已经正式要求引渡他。
In a statement Friday, the U.S. attorney general, Loretta E. Lynch, commended the Mexican authorities “who have worked tirelessly in recent months to bring Guzmán to justice.” But she did not directly answer the extradition question.
在周五的一个声明中，美国司法部长洛蕾塔·E·林奇(Loretta E. Lynch)评价墨西哥当局“在最近几个月一直在不知疲倦地工作来将古兹曼绳之以法。”但是她没有直接回答引渡的问题。
“The U.S. Department of Justice is proud to maintain a close and effective relationship with our Mexican counterparts, and we look forward to continuing our work together to ensure the safety and security of all our people,” she said.
“美国司法部很骄傲能与我们的墨西哥司法部门维持一种紧密而有效的关系，我们期待能继续一起工作来确保我们所有人民的安全和保障。”她说道。