Oh, Jane. What a summer it’s been for your insatiable cottage industry — a cottage about the size of Darcy’s pile at Pemberley, at this point. Here in the 200th birthday year for “Pride and Prejudice,” it seems as if not a week goes by without new grist. Last month the Bank of England announced that it would feature Jane Austen on the £10 note, making Jane the only woman besides the queen and an obscure prison reformer to be honored on British currency; a Twitter war erupted, with the most extreme position taken by someone who tweeted rape and death threats against the woman who’d lobbied the bank to feature a woman.
哦，简。对你永不知足的乡村产业来说，这是怎样一个夏天啊。此时，这个乡村差不多和达西的潘伯利庄园一样大。在《傲慢与偏见》(Pride and Prejudice)诞生200年之际，似乎每周都有新闻发生。上个月，英格兰银行宣布将在10英镑纸币上印上简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)的头像，使她成为除了英国女王和一个鲜为人知的监狱改革者之外登上英国钞票的唯一女性。这在Twitter上引发了一场论战，其中最极端的一个人威胁说要强奸并杀死那个游说该银行印女性头像的女人。
Then there was the matter of the genuine Jane artifact. Kelly Clarkson spent about a quarter of a million dollars at an auction in England last year for a gold and turquoise ring owned by Austen; last week, the British culture minister balked, and so far has prevented Ms. Clarkson from taking the ring out of the country: National Treasure (1), American Idol (0). The bookshelves groan with new Jane volumes, equal parts pop and Ph.D. Deborah Yaffe’s “Among the Janeites: A Journey Through the World of Jane Austen Fandom” (Mariner Books) was published this week. In two weeks it’ll have competition from “Global Jane Austen: Pleasure, Passion, and Possessiveness in the Jane Austen Community.” Two novels arrive in October: “Longbourn,” by Jo Baker, “P&P” from the servants’ perspective, and a third installment of the Bridget Jones story, a modern-day adaptation of “P&P” by Helen Fielding. Both books have big screen written between the lines.
然后就出现了一桩与简本人的工艺品有关的事件。去年凯丽·克拉克森(Kelly Clarkson)在英国的一场拍卖会上花了约25万美元买下奥斯汀的绿宝石金戒指；上周，英国文化部长出面阻拦，至今仍阻止克拉克森将该戒指带出英国——国家宝物一比零领先美国偶像。书店的书架上摆满简的新版作品。黛博拉·雅夫(Deborah Yaffe)博士的《探访简·奥斯汀迷们的世界》（Among the Janeites: A Journey Through the World of Jane Austen Fandom，Mariner Books出版社出版）本周出版。两周后，它将和《世界的简·奥斯汀：简·奥斯汀团体里的快乐、激情和占有》(Global Jane Austen: Pleasure, Passion, and Possessiveness in the Jane Austen Community)竞争。10月份，将有两本小说出版：乔·贝克的《朗伯恩》(Longbourn)，这部小说可以说是从仆人角度写的《傲慢与偏见》，以及《布里吉特·琼斯》(Bridget Jones)的第三部，这部小说可以说是海伦·菲尔丁(Helen Fielding)对《傲慢与偏见》的现代改编。这两部小说字里行间都有被搬上大银幕的潜质。
Which is probably a less likely outcome for “Finding Colin Firth,” by Mia March, published last month. (Mr. Firth played Darcy in the 1995 television mini-series of “Pride and Prejudice,” and the growth of the Jane Austen industry is generally attributed to that hugely popular production.) “The List Lover’s Guide to Jane Austen,” by Joan Strasbaugh, and “Mr. Darcy’s Guide to Courtship: Secrets of Seduction From Jane Austen’s Most Eligible Bachelor,” by Emily Brand, were two more July books. And because it’s never too early to love Jane Austen, there’s “Mr. Darcy the Dancing Duck,” a picture book by Alex Field, and “Little Miss Austen: Sense and Sensibility: A Babylit Opposites Primer.”
上月出版的米娅·马奇(Mia March)的《找到科林·费斯》(Finding Colin Firth)不大可能搬上银幕（费斯在1995年的电视短剧《傲慢与偏见》中扮演达西，简·奥斯汀产业的壮大跟那部电视剧的流行有很大关系）。琼·斯特拉斯堡(Joan Strasbaugh)的《简·奥斯汀指南》(The List Lover’s Guide to Jane Austen)以及埃米莉·布兰德(Emily Brand)的《达西求爱指南：简·奥斯汀黄金单身汉的诱惑秘诀》(Mr. Darcy’s Guide to Courtship: Secrets of Seduction From Jane Austen’s Most Eligible Bachelor)是7月份出版的另外两本书。因为不管年纪多小你都可以爱上简·奥斯汀，所以还有亚历克斯·菲尔德(Alex Field)的图画书《跳舞的鸭子达西》(Mr. Darcy the Dancing Duck)和《小奥斯汀：理智与情感：幼儿读本》(Little Miss Austen: Sense and Sensibility: A Babylit Opposites Primer)。
We’ve put some of the recent Austen industry highlights together for you in a board game. (Whist was not an option.) Play while you’re waiting for next weekend’s opening of “Austenland,” a Hollywood confection about an American Austen obsessive — a Janeiac, if you will — who ventures to an Austen theme park in search of her Mr. Darcy. Pick a Lizzy and find yours.
我们已经把最近奥斯汀产业中的一些亮点给你放到了棋盘游戏中（惠斯特[Whist]纸牌游戏不是其中之一）。你可以一边玩这个游戏，一边等着下周末《奥斯汀庄园》(Austenland)上映，这部好莱坞电影讲述的是一个美国奥斯汀迷去奥斯汀主题公园探险，寻找她的达西。选一个莉兹，找到你自己的达西吧。