In 2010, while working for a National Security Agency contractor, Edward J. Snowden learned to be a hacker.
2010年，在爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)为国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的一家承包商工作时，他通过学习成为了一名黑客。
He took a course that trains security professionals to think like hackers and understand their techniques, all with the intent of turning out “certified ethical hackers” who can better defend their employers’ networks.
他参加了一门课程，培训安全专家如何像黑客一样思考，并了解他们的种种技巧，其目的是为了培养“认证的道德黑客”，能够更好地为雇主防御他们的网络。
But the certification, listed on a résumé that Mr. Snowden later prepared, would also have given him some of the skills he needed to rummage undetected through N.S.A. computer systems and gather the highly classified surveillance documents that he leaked last month, security experts say.
斯诺登后来将这份证书列入了他的简历，安全专家称，这项认证赋予斯诺登的一些技能，却在后来让他可以悄无声息地查看NSA的计算机系统，并收集了高度机密的监视文件，他在上个月泄露了这些文件。
Mr. Snowden’s résumé, which has not been made public and was described by people who have seen it, provides a new picture of how his skills and responsibilities expanded while he worked as an intelligence contractor. Although federal officials offered only a vague description of him as a “systems administrator,” the résumé suggests that he had transformed himself into the kind of cybersecurity expert the N.S.A. is desperate to recruit, making his decision to release the documents even more embarrassing to the agency.
斯诺登的简历并没有被公开，但许多看过的人描述了它的内容，这让人们对于他在担任情报机构的承包商雇员时，如何拓展技能和其职责领域，又有了新的了解。尽管联邦官员仅模糊地将他描述为“系统管理员”，这份简历却显示出，他那时已将自己转变成了NSA迫切希望招募的网络安全专家，这使得他发布这些文件的决定对NSA来说更为尴尬。
“If he’s looking inside U.S. government networks for foreign intrusions, he might have very broad access,” said James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The hacker got into the storeroom.”
“如果他是在美国政府网络内搜寻外国的入侵行为，他的权限可能是非常大的，”美国国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的电脑安全专家詹姆斯·A·刘易斯(James A. Lewis)说。“黑客进了储藏室。”
In an age when terabytes of data can be stashed inside palm-size devices, the new details about Mr. Snowden’s training and assignments underscore the challenges that the N.S.A. faces in recruiting a new generation of free-spirited computer experts with diverse political views.
在这个年代，海量数据可以被储藏在巴掌大的设备中，而有关斯诺登所接受的培训和任务的新细节则突显了NSA面临的挑战，它该如何招募政治观点各异、特立独行的新一代计算机专家。
Mr. Snowden, who is now marooned at an airport in Moscow waiting to see if another country will grant him asylum, has said he leaked the documents to alert the public to the sweeping nature of the American government’s surveillance. He took a job as an “infrastructure analyst” with Booz Allen Hamilton in April at an N.S.A. facility in Hawaii, he has said, to gain access to lists of computers that the agency had hacked around the world.
斯诺登现在被困在莫斯科的一座机场里，还在观望是否会有另一个国家会为他提供庇护，他说他泄露这些文件是为了让公众认识到美国政府监控的范围之广。他曾说，他在4月成为博思艾伦公司(Booz Allen Hamilton)的一名“基础设施分析师”，在夏威夷的NSA设施内工作，目的就是为了获取NSA在全世界入侵过的电脑清单。
Mr. Snowden prepared the résumé shortly before applying for that job, while he was working in Hawaii for the N.S.A. with Dell, the computer maker, which has intelligence contracts. Little has been reported about his four years with Dell, but his résumé, as described, says that he rose from supervising computer system upgrades for the spy agency in Tokyo to working as a “cyberstrategist” and an “expert in cyber counterintelligence” at several locations in the United States.
斯诺登在申请这个工作之前准备了这份简历，当时他正在夏威夷以戴尔公司(Dell)雇员的身份为NSA工作，这家电脑制造商签订了为情报机构服务的合同。有关他在戴尔工作的那四年，目前披露的信息很少，但根据人们的描述，他的简历显示，他从在东京为NSA负责计算机系统升级，已上升为在美国多地担任“网络战略家”和“网络反间谍专家”。
In what may have been his last job for Dell in Hawaii, he was responsible for the security of “Windows infrastructure” in the Pacific, he wrote, according to people who have seen his résumé. He had enough access there to start making contacts with journalists in January and February about disclosing delicate information. His work for Dell may also have enabled him to see that he would have even more access at Booz Allen.
看过他简历的一些人说，斯诺登在其中提到，他曾在戴尔负责太平洋地区的“Windows基础设施”的安全，这应该是他在夏威夷为戴尔服务期间所做的最后工作。他在那里能接触到足够的信息，以至于可以在1、2月份开始与记者联系，讨论泄露敏感信息的可能。他在戴尔的工作或许也让他意识到，他能在博思艾伦接触到更多信息。
Some intelligence experts say that the types of files he improperly downloaded at Booz Allen suggest that he had shifted to the offensive side of electronic spying or cyberwarfare, in which the N.S.A. examines other nations’ computer systems to steal information or to prepare attacks. The N.S.A.’s director, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, has encouraged workers to try their skills both defensively and offensively, and moving to offense from defense is a common career pattern, officials say.
一些情报专家称，从他在博思艾伦非法下载的那些文件的类型可以看出，他已经转为电子监听或网络战的攻击方，通过这类操作，NSA可以分析其他国家的计算机系统，窃取信息或准备攻击。官员称，NSA局长基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)曾鼓励员工从防御和进攻两方面来测试他们的技能，而从防守转变为进攻是一种常见的职业发展模式。
Whatever his role, Mr. Snowden’s ability to comb through the networks as a lone wolf — and walk out the door with the documents on thumb drives — shows how the agency’s internal security system has fallen short, former officials say.
有些前官员表示，不论斯诺登担任了哪种角色，他能单枪匹马地仔细查看NSA的网络，并带着存有文件的U盘大摇大摆地离开，说明NSA的内部安全系统并不达标。
“If Visa can call me and say, ‘Are you in Dakar, Senegal?’ when they see a purchase that doesn’t fit my history, then we ought to be able to detect something like this,” said Michael V. Hayden, a former director of the N.S.A. and the C.I.A. “That continuous monitoring does not seem to have been in place.”
“如果Visa看到一个与我的行程不符的购物记录时，会打电话给我说，‘你在塞内加尔的达喀尔吗？那么我们就应该能觉察到这类问题，”NSA和中央情报局(CIA)的前主管麦克尔·V·海登(Michael V. Hayden)说。“而那种持续的监控似乎并没到位。”
Mr. Snowden grew up in Baltimore’s southern suburbs, where many of his neighbors would have been tech-savvy N.S.A. employees working at the agency’s headquarters at Fort Meade. Conventional schooling did not agree with him, and he dropped out of high school and eventually sought technical training in a series of courses.
斯诺登在巴尔的摩南郊长大，他的街坊四邻里说不定就有一些精通技术的NSA雇员，在米德堡的安全局总部工作。传统的学校教育并不适合斯诺登，他高中辍学，最后通过各种课程接受了技术培训。
As early as 2003, when he was 20, he showed interest in the skills, prized by hackers, required to operate anonymously online. “I wouldn’t want God himself to know where I’ve been, you know?” he, or someone identified as him from his screen name and other details, wrote on a forum on the tech news site Ars Technica.
早在2003年斯诺登才20岁时，他便显示了对这种可以在网上进行匿名操作的技术的兴趣，黑客们对这种技术格外珍视。“就算是上帝我也不想让他知道我去过哪儿，明白吗？”这段话发表在科技新闻类网站Ars Technica的论坛里，不是他、就是某个使用了他的网络用户名和个人资料的人发表的。
Three years later, about the time he joined the C.I.A., he had discovered the long list of jobs available to anyone with computer expertise who could pass a detailed “lifestyle” polygraph test and get a security clearance. “If you’re cleared, have a lifestyle, and have specialized I.T. skills, you can go anywhere in the world right now,” he wrote under the screen name TheTrueHOOHA.
三年以后，大约是在他加入CIA的前后，他已经发现了一长串适合计算机专业人士的工作，经过一个详细的“生活方式”测谎后，这些人会得到安全审批。“如果你获得了许可，测过生活方式，有专长的信息技术(IT)能力，你现在可以去世界上任何地方，”他以TheTrueHOOHA的用户名写道。
By the next year, he was a C.I.A. technician posted in Geneva, operating under cover as a “diplomatic attaché,” as his résumé calls the job. His C.I.A. job appears to have been standard I.T. work, though in an exotic high-security setting.
到第二年，他当时正作为一名CIA的技术人员在日内瓦工作，从他的简历来看，他当时的身份是“外交使节”。他在CIA的工作看来只是纯粹的IT类工作，当然是在一个安全级别很高的外国环境里。
He was “called upon repeatedly” for TDYs, he wrote, using government jargon for temporary duty, “including support of U.S. president.” That reference, government officials say, is probably related to assistance with computer security or other routine assignments during presidential trips to Europe.
他说他“一再被要求”参与各种TDY，这里的TDY是政府术语，指临时任务，“包括协助美国总统。”政府官员表示，斯诺登这里指的可能是在总统赴欧洲期间，协助计算机安全工作或者其他常规任务。
By 2010, he had switched agencies and moved to Japan to work for Dell as an N.S.A. contractor, and he led a project to modernize the backup computer infrastructure, he said on the résumé. That year also appears to have been pivotal in his shift toward more sophisticated cybersecurity.
到2010年，他换去了不同的部门工作，搬到日本作为承包商戴尔的雇员为NSA效力，他在简历里说，他此时负责的一个项目是对备用计算机基础设施进行现代化改进。对于他向着更高端网络安全技术的转型，这一年看来是非常关键的。
He gained his certification as an “ethical hacker” by studying materials that have helped tens of thousands of government and corporate security workers around the world learn how hackers gain access to systems and cover their tracks.
他通过研究相关资料，取得了“道德黑客”的认证。这些资料已帮助全球数以万计的政府和公司安全人员掌握了黑客技术，了解黑客如何攻入系统，并销毁任何留下的痕迹。
The program, operated by a company called EC-Council, has a code of honor that requires ethical hackers to keep private any confidential information that they obtain in checking systems for vulnerabilities. Sanjay Bavisi, the company’s president, said he knew of only one person who had lost his certification for making information public.
这项认证计划由一家叫国际电子商务顾问局(EC-Council)的公司运作，它推行一项荣誉规范，要求道德黑客们对于他们在检查系统漏洞时发现的机密信息进行保密。公司总裁山齐·巴维希(Sanjay Bavisi)表示，他到现在只知道有一个人因为公布信息而被剥夺了认证资格。
For years, N.S.A. officials have visited hacker gatherings to promote the agency and recruit workers. General Alexander, the director, gave the keynote address a year ago at Defcon, a large hacker conference, in Las Vegas. But Mr. Snowden’s profile will now be carefully studied by intelligence officials for clues about how to hire skilled young hackers without endangering the agency’s secrets.
多年来，NSA的官员们一直会出没于黑客聚会，推广NSA并招揽工作人员。一年前，NSA的局长亚历山大上将在拉斯维加斯一场名为Defcon的大型黑客会议上发表了主题演讲。但是情报官员们现在将会仔细研究斯诺登的材料，从中寻找各种线索：如何在雇佣技术娴熟的年轻黑客的同时，不会威胁到NSA的秘密。
John R. Schindler, a former N.S.A. official who now teaches at the Naval War College, said that the background investigation for Mr. Snowden’s security clearance was clearly flawed. “For years, N.S.A. and now the Cyber Command have struggled with how to relate to the hacker community,” he added. “It’s obvious that some sort of arrangement to allow hackers to work for N.S.A. and the intelligence community in a systematic way is needed.”
前NSA官员、如今在海军战争学院(Naval War College)执教的约翰·R·申德勒(John R. Schindler)表示，为了审核斯诺登的安全资格而进行的背景核查显然是存在缺陷的。“多年来，NSA以及如今的网络战司令部(Cyber Command)一直不知如何与黑客社群沟通，”他补充说。“要让黑客在NSA和情报部门从事系统性的工作，我们显然要做出一些安排。”