I LIVE in a 420-square-foot studio. I sleep in a bed that folds down from the wall. I have six dress shirts. I have 10 shallow bowls that I use for salads and main dishes. When people come over for dinner, I pull out my extendable dining room table. I don’t have a single CD or DVD and I have 10 percent of the books I once did.
我住在一间约为40平方米的零居室里。我睡在可折叠到墙上的床上。我有6件正装白衬衫。我有10只浅碗，用来装沙拉和主菜。当人们来共进晚餐时，我会拉出我的可伸缩餐桌。我连一张CD或DVD都没有，我所拥有的书籍也只是从前藏书的十分之一。
I have come a long way from the life I had in the late ’90s, when, flush with cash from an Internet start-up sale, I had a giant house crammed with stuff — electronics and cars and appliances and gadgets.
与自己在20世纪90年代的生活相比，我已经有了巨大变化。当时，我卖了一家互联网初创企业，拿到了不少钱，我拥有一间大房子，里面塞满了各种东西，从电子产品到汽车，再到电器和小玩意儿。
Somehow this stuff ended up running my life, or a lot of it; the things I consumed ended up consuming me. My circumstances are unusual (not everyone gets an Internet windfall before turning 30), but my relationship with material things isn’t.
不知何故，这些东西最终掌控了我的生活，或其大部；我消费的这些东西最终消耗了我。我的情况有些特殊，并不是每个人都能在30岁前在互联网行业挣到一大笔钱，但我与物质财产的关系可并非特例。
We live in a world of surfeit stuff, of big-box stores and 24-hour online shopping opportunities. Members of every socioeconomic bracket can and do deluge themselves with products.
我们生活在一个物质极大丰富的世界里，这里充斥着大型购物中心和24小时在线购物的机会。来自每一个社会经济背景的成员都可以把自己淹没在商品之中，而人们的确也会这么去做。
There isn’t any indication that any of these things makes anyone any happier; in fact it seems the reverse may be true.
没有任何迹象显示，这些物品中的任何一个，能让任何人更快乐。事实上的情况或许恰好相反。
For me, it took 15 years, a great love and a lot of travel to get rid of all the inessential things I had collected and live a bigger, better, richer life with less.
就我个人来说，我花了15年时间、一场伟大的爱情和许多次旅游，才最终处理掉所有那些我曾收集的不必要的东西，从而以更少的物品，来体验一种更大、更好、更加富足的生活。
It started in 1998 in Seattle, when my partner and I sold our Internet consultancy company, Sitewerks, for more money than I thought I’d earn in a lifetime.
一切始于1998年的西雅图，当时我的伙伴和我卖掉了我们的互联网咨询公司Sitewerks，挣到了原来想都不敢想的财富。
To celebrate, I bought a four-story, 3,600-square-foot, turn-of-the-century house in Seattle’s happening Capitol Hill neighborhood and, in a frenzy of consumption, bought a brand-new sectional couch (my first ever), a pair of $300 sunglasses, a ton of gadgets, like an Audible.com MobilePlayer (one of the first portable digital music players) and an audiophile-worthy five-disc CD player. And, of course, a black turbocharged Volvo. With a remote starter!
作为一种庆祝方式，我在西雅图热门的国会山地区买了一栋世纪之交的、约330平方米的四层房屋，并且在一阵疯狂消费过程中，购买了一套崭新的组合沙发（我个人的第一套）、一幅300美元的眼镜和海量的小玩意，包括一台Audible.com的MobilePlayer（这是最早的数字音乐移动播放器之一）和一部发烧友级别的五碟CD播放器。当然，还有一辆配备了遥控启动器的黑色涡轮增压沃尔沃(Volvo)轿车！
I was working hard for Sitewerks’ new parent company, Bowne, and didn’t have the time to finish getting everything I needed for my house. So I hired a guy named Seven, who said he had been Courtney Love’s assistant, to be my personal shopper. He went to furniture, appliance and electronics stores and took Polaroids of things he thought I might like to fill the house; I’d shuffle through the pictures and proceed on a virtual shopping spree.
我当时为Sitewerks的新母公司鲍恩公司(Bowne)努力工作，因而没有时间来买全我的房子所需的每件东西。所以我雇佣了一个叫塞文(Seven)的人来做我的个人采购员，他说自己曾是考特妮·洛夫(Courtney Love)的助手。他到出售家具、电器和电子产品的商店里，用宝丽来相机(Polaroid)拍下他觉得我可能会喜欢拿来填充屋子的东西，随后我会粗略浏览这些照片，并进行一场虚拟的购物狂潮。
My success and the things it bought quickly changed from novel to normal. Soon I was numb to it all. The new Nokia phone didn’t excite me or satisfy me. It didn’t take long before I started to wonder why my theoretically upgraded life didn’t feel any better and why I felt more anxious than before.
我的成功及所买来的东西很快从新奇变成了寻常。很快，我对这一切就都麻木了。新款诺基亚(Nokia)手机无法令我兴奋或满足。我很快就开始感到疑惑，为何我在理论上有所升级的生活无法让我感觉更好一些，而且为何我会比以前感到更加焦虑。
My life was unnecessarily complicated. There were lawns to mow, gutters to clear, floors to vacuum, roommates to manage (it seemed nuts to have such a big, empty house), a car to insure, wash, refuel, repair and register and tech to set up and keep working. To top it all off, I had to keep Seven busy. And really, a personal shopper? Who had I become? My house and my things were my new employers for a job I had never applied for.
我的生活变得不必要的复杂。有草坪需要割，有排水沟需要清理，有地板需要吸尘，有室友需要管理（让这么大的房子空着看似不正常），有汽车需要上保险、刷洗、加油、修理和登记，还要设置各种科技设备，并保持它们的运转。更有甚者，我必须让赛文忙起来。说句真心话，我居然雇了个个人采购员？我都变成什么人了？我的房子和我的东西成了我的新雇主，它们给了我一份自己从未申请过的工作。
It got worse. Soon after we sold our company, I moved east to work in Bowne’s office in New York, where I rented a 1,900-square-foot SoHo loft that befit my station as a tech entrepreneur. The new pad needed furniture, housewares, electronics, etc. — which took more time and energy to manage.
之后，情况变得更糟了。在我们出售公司后不久，搬到了东海岸，来到鲍恩公司的纽约办公室工作，在这里我租了一间约180平方米的苏豪区跃层公寓，作为一名科技业企业家，这里是符合身份的住所。新的住所需要家具、家居用品、电子产品等，这需要更多的时间和精力来处理。
AND because the place was so big, I felt obliged to get roommates — who required more time, more energy, to manage. I still had the Seattle house, so I found myself worrying about two homes. When I decided to stay in New York, it cost a fortune and took months of cross-country trips — and big headaches — to close on the Seattle house and get rid of the all of the things inside.
此外，因为这个地方是如此之大，我觉得有必要寻找室友，而这又需要更多时间和精力来处理。我仍旧拥有西雅图的住宅，于是我发现自己要考虑这两个家。当我最终决定留在纽约时，为了处理在西雅图的房子并清走里面的所有东西，我花了一大笔钱，并在数月时间里多次进行横跨美国之旅，这在当时让我非常头疼。
I’m lucky, obviously; not everyone gets a windfall from a tech start-up sale. But I’m not the only one whose life is cluttered with excess belongings.
我明显是个幸运者，因为并非每个人都能在科技初创企业上赚到一大笔钱。但作为一个生活中充斥着各种多余物品的人，我可不是唯一一个。
In a study published last year titled “Life at Home in the Twenty-First Century,” researchers at U.C.L.A. observed 32 middle-class Los Angeles families and found that all of the mothers’ stress hormones spiked during the time they spent dealing with their belongings. Seventy-five percent of the families involved in the study couldn’t park their cars in their garages because they were too jammed with things.
在去年发布的一份名为《生活在21世纪的家中》的研究报告中，加州大学洛杉矶分校(UCLA)的研究者们观察了32个洛杉矶的中产阶级家庭，他们发现所有母亲们在处理其拥有的物品时，压力荷尔蒙都会飙升。在研究中，有75%的家庭无法把车停入车库，因为那里堆满了各种东西。
Our fondness for stuff affects almost every aspect of our lives. Housing size, for example, has ballooned in the last 60 years. The average size of a new American home in 1950 was 983 square feet; by 2011, the average new home was 2,480 square feet. And those figures don’t provide a full picture. In 1950, an average of 3.37 people lived in each American home; in 2011, that number had shrunk to 2.6 people. This means that we take up more than three times the amount of space per capita than we did 60 years ago.
我们对于物品的嗜好几乎影响到我们生活的每个方面。例如，住房的面积在过去60年里如气球般膨胀。1950年，在美国一所新住宅的平均尺寸约为90平方米；到了2010年，每所新住宅平均是约230平方米。而这些数据所展现的还不是全部情况。在1950年，在美国的每所住宅中平均居住3.37人；在2011年这一数字缩小到2.6人。这意味着，现在的个人平均住房面积是60年前的三倍多。
Apparently our supersize homes don’t provide space enough for all our possessions, as is evidenced by our country’s $22 billion personal storage industry.
而明显的是，我们大尺寸的房屋并未给我们所有的财产提供足够空间，美国220亿美元的个人仓储业就可以证明这一点。
What exactly are we storing away in the boxes we cart from place to place? Much of what Americans consume doesn’t even find its way into boxes or storage spaces, but winds up in the garbage.
我们存在箱子里储藏起来，并且搬来搬去的都是些什么东西呢？美国人消费的大部分东西甚至都没有被装进箱子或存入仓库，它们最终的归宿就是垃圾箱。
The Natural Resources Defense Council reports, for example, that 40 percent of the food Americans buy finds its way into the trash.
例如，美国自然资源保护委员会(Natural Resources Defense Council)报告称，美国人购买的食品中有40%都被丢进了垃圾箱。
Enormous consumption has global, environmental and social consequences. For at least 335 consecutive months, the average temperature of the globe has exceeded the average for the 20th century. As a recent report for Congress explained, this temperature increase, as well as acidifying oceans, melting glaciers and Arctic Sea ice are “primarily driven by human activity.” Many experts believe consumerism and all that it entails — from the extraction of resources to manufacturing to waste disposal — plays a big part in pushing our planet to the brink. And as we saw with Foxconn and the recent Beijing smog scare, many of the affordable products we buy depend on cheap, often exploitive overseas labor and lax environmental regulations.
巨大的消费量对全球、环境和社会产生了影响。至少在持续335个月内，全球平均气温超过了20世纪的平均水平。近期一份上交美国国会的报告中解释称，气温上升、海洋酸化，以及冰川和北极海冰的融化“主要是由人类活动所引发的”。许多专家相信，消费主义及其所有产物，从自然资源开采到制造业再到废品处理，在把我们的星球推向崩溃的过程中起到了很大作用。正如富士康(Foxconn)的案例和北京近期的雾霾恐慌向人们展示的那样，我们购买的许多廉价产品，都要依赖对海外劳工的剥削和宽松的环境法规。
Does all this endless consumption result in measurably increased happiness?
那么，所有这些永无休止的消费，是否导致了明显的幸福增长呢？
In a recent study, the Northwestern University psychologist Galen V. Bodenhausen linked consumption with aberrant, antisocial behavior. Professor Bodenhausen found that “Irrespective of personality, in situations that activate a consumer mind-set, people show the same sorts of problematic patterns in well-being, including negative affect and social disengagement.” Though American consumer activity has increased substantially since the 1950s, happiness levels have flat-lined.
在最近的研究中，西北大学(Northwestern University)心理学家盖伦·V·博登豪森(Galen V. Bodenhausen)把消费和异常的反社会行为相联系。博登豪森教授发现，“不论个性如何，在消费心态被激活的情况下，人们的福祉中显示出同类的问题模式，包括负面情绪和与社会脱节”。尽管美国的消费活动自20世纪50年代以来持续上升，而幸福指数却一直持平。
I DON’T know that the gadgets I was collecting in my loft were part of an aberrant or antisocial behavior plan during the first months I lived in SoHo. But I was just going along, starting some start-ups that never quite started up when I met Olga, an Andorran beauty, and fell hard. My relationship with stuff quickly came apart.
我并不知道，在我生活在苏豪区的最初几个月里，我在自己的公寓中收集的小玩意属于一种异常的反社会行为的一部分。我当时只是在随大流，开办一些从未真正启动的初创企业，然后我遇到了来自安道尔的美女奥尔加(Olga)，并跌入爱河。我与那些物品的关系迅速地瓦解了。
I followed her to Barcelona when her visa expired and we lived in a tiny flat, totally content and in love before we realized that nothing was holding us in Spain. We packed a few clothes, some toiletries and a couple of laptops and hit the road. We lived in Bangkok, Buenos Aires and Toronto with many stops in between.
在她的护照过期后，我跟着她去了巴塞罗那，我们住在一间窄小的公寓中，心满意足且深深相爱，直到我们意识到没有什么东西能把我们留在西班牙。我们收拾了一些衣服，一些洗漱用品和几台笔记本电脑，就踏上了旅途。我们曾生活在曼谷、布宜诺斯艾利斯和多伦多，以及其间的许多落脚点。
A compulsive entrepreneur, I worked all the time and started new companies from an office that fit in my solar backpack. I created some do-gooder companies like We Are Happy to Serve You, which makes a reusable, ceramic version of the iconic New York City Anthora coffee cup and TreeHugger.com, an environmental design blog that I later sold to Discovery Communications. My life was full of love and adventure and work I cared about. I felt free and I didn’t miss the car and gadgets and house; instead I felt as if I had quit a dead-end job.
作为一名有强迫症的企业家，我的办公室就是我的太阳能背包，通过它我无时无刻不在工作，并开办新的公司。我创建了一些空想改良派的公司，例如“我们乐于为您效劳”(We Are Happy to Serve You)，这家公司制造标志性的纽约市Anthora咖啡杯的陶瓷版本，这种杯子可被回收利用；以及TreeHugger.com，这是一个环境设计博客网站，我后来把它卖给了探索通信公司(Discovery Communications)。我的生活充满了爱情、探险和我所关心的工作。我感到自由，且并不怀念那辆车、那些玩意儿和那房子；相反，我感觉自己就像是逃离了一份没有前途的工作。
The relationship with Olga eventually ended, but my life never looked the same. I live smaller and travel lighter. I have more time and money. Aside from my travel habit — which I try to keep in check by minimizing trips, combining trips and purchasing carbon offsets — I feel better that my carbon footprint is significantly smaller than in my previous supersized life.
和奥尔加之间的关系最终结束了，但我的生活不再是老样子了。我的生活变小了一些，旅行装备也少了些。我拥有了更多的时间和金钱。我试着让自己的旅行瘦身，合并一些旅行并购买碳补偿。除此以外，我的碳足迹比我之前的超大型生活减少了很多，这让我感觉好多了。
Intuitively, we know that the best stuff in life isn’t stuff at all, and that relationships, experiences and meaningful work are the staples of a happy life.
从直觉上，我们知道生活中最好的东西根本就不是某样东西，而人际关系、经历和有意义的工作才是幸福生活的主题。
I like material things as much as anyone. I studied product design in school. I’m into gadgets, clothing and all kinds of things. But my experiences show that after a certain point, material objects have a tendency to crowd out the emotional needs they are meant to support.
和任何人一样，我也喜欢物质上的东西。我在学校学习的是商品设计。我喜欢小玩意、衣服和各种各样的东西。但我的经验显示出，在到了某个特定水平之后，物品会拥有一种排挤情感需求的趋势，而它们本应是用来支持后者的。
I wouldn’t trade a second spent wandering the streets of Bangkok with Olga for anything I’ve owned. Often, material objects take up mental as well as physical space.
在曼谷街头与奥尔加漫步的一秒钟时间都要比我曾拥有的任何一件物品更加珍贵。物品常常在占据物理空间的同时，还会占据精神空间。
I’m still a serial entrepreneur, and my latest venture is to design thoughtfully constructed small homes that support our lives, not the other way around. Like the 420-square-foot space I live in, the houses I design contain less stuff and make it easier for owners to live within their means and to limit their environmental footprint. My apartment sleeps four people comfortably; I frequently have dinner parties for 12. My space is well-built, affordable and as functional as living spaces twice the size. As the guy who started TreeHugger.com, I sleep better knowing I’m not using more resources than I need. I have less — and enjoy more.
我仍旧是一名终身创业者，而我最近的项目是设计精巧构筑的小型房屋，这种住房可以支撑我们的生活，而不是破坏生活，比如我所居住的40平方米的空间。我设计的这类房间所包含的东西较少，使得房主更容易量入为出，并且减少他们的环境足迹。我的公寓可以舒适地睡下四个人；我常常与12个人一起共进晚餐。我的空间设计良好，价格低廉，而其功能可以达到普通生活空间的两倍。作为TreeHugger.com的创始人，我因为知道自己没有浪费所需之外的资源而长夜安乐。我拥有的东西更少了，但我有了更多的享受。
My space is small. My life is big.
我的空间很小，我的生活很大。