BEIJING — When the Chinese government loosened the one-child policy in 2013, Cai Wei and Ni Jun wanted to take advantage of it.
北京——中国政府在2013年放松“一胎制”政策时，蔡薇（音）和倪军（音）想过生二胎。
The Beijing couple already had a son, Huhu, born in 2010, and like many families they wanted the child to have a sibling.
北京的这对夫妇当时已经有了一个儿子，名叫虎虎（音），生于2010年。和很多家庭一样，他们也希望给虎虎添个弟弟或妹妹。
But by the time the government announced Thursday that all Chinese couples could finally, legally, have a second child, the couple had changed their minds.
但是，本周四中国政府宣布所有夫妇都可以合法地生第二个孩子时，夫妻俩已经改变了主意。
“Our life would become harder,” Ms. Cai said. “It’s a money thing.”
“我们的生活会变得更拮据。”蔡薇说。“这是钱的问题。”
She ticked off a few expenses.
她列举了一些费用。
“We pay about 1,400 renminbi,” or $220, “a month for Huhu’s kindergarten,” she said. “And that’s just the fees. Then there’s extra lessons. He loves art. Swimming is 100 renminbi an hour,” or $16. “Rollerblading. It’s all so expensive. I’d love to have a second child, but I’m afraid of the consequences.”
“虎虎上的幼儿园每月要交大约1400元人民币，”她说。“这还只是学费，还有补课的费用，虎虎喜欢艺术。游泳课每小时100元，他还要学轮滑。这些都非常贵。我很想再生一个孩子，但是我怕养不起。”
The couple’s story is a common one.
这对夫妇的情况很普遍。
For most ordinary families, the expense of raising a second child is overwhelming. Education is costly, child care generally dependent on willing relatives. And partly because people have so few children, prices for everything related to children are high.
对大部分普通家庭来说，抚养第二个孩子费用惊人。教育开销不菲，一般来说照顾孩子的事情也要靠愿意帮忙的亲属。而且一切与孩子有关的东西，价格都很高昂，这在一定程度上是因为多数家庭都是独苗。
So for many Chinese families the decision to have another child comes down to math.
因此，对很多中国家庭来说，生二胎的决定终究是一个数学问题。
Two years ago, the government allowed couples in which one partner was an only child to have a second child. Ms. Cai, then 38, was an only child so she and her husband qualified. And they had long dreamed of giving Huhu a little sister.
两年前，政府允许一方是独生子女的夫妇生育第二个孩子。当时，蔡薇38岁。因为自己是独生子女，她和丈夫是有资格的。而且长期以来，他们也一直梦想着给虎虎添个小妹妹。
Ms. Cai is a private therapeutic masseuse. Mr. Ni, 41, is a guide for a travel agency who frequently travels overseas with tour groups.
蔡薇是一家私人理疗机构的女按摩师，41岁的倪军则是一家旅行社的导游，经常要带团出国。
They live with his mother in a two-bedroom apartment that they own, in an ordinary tower block in Beijing. They have a car, and a combined salary of about $3,900 a month. While that puts them in the middle class, they find that the two salaries are essential to cover costs and they have little room to maneuver.
夫妻二人和倪军的母亲一起生活在一套两居室里。那是他们自己的房子，位于北京一栋普通的居民楼里。他们还有一辆车。两个人一个月的工资加起来约有2.5万元。尽管这让他们跻身中产阶级之列，但他们发现，要想支付开销，两人都有工资收入是至关重要的，几乎没有回旋的余地。
Private kindergartens typically cost at least $630 a month. Cheaper, state-run kindergartens are highly sought after and cannot offer enough places. Huhu was lucky to get a place in one, Ms. Cai said. Still, education accounts for about 15 percent of their monthly family budget — already.
私立幼儿园一个月通常至少要4000元。便宜一点的公立幼儿园供不应求，无法容纳足够的孩子。但她说，虎虎幸运地入读了一家公立幼儿园。但即便如此，教育在他们每月的家庭预算中也已经占大约15%了。
Mr. Ni’s job takes him out of the country for about two weeks a month, so Ms. Cai is often alone with Huhu. Currently, Mr. Ni is in Australia.
倪军的工作让他一个月要出国大约两周，因此，蔡薇通常一个人带虎虎。就像现在，倪军正在澳大利亚。
In China, a man’s parents traditionally help raise their grandchild, a system that many believe works best. But Mr. Ni’s father died last year and his mother’s health is not good.
在中国，男方父母传统上会帮忙带孙子孙女。很多人认为，这个习惯是最合适的。但倪军的父亲去年去世，他母亲身体也不好。
“I am afraid that it would be too difficult for me to continue working after having a second child,” Ms. Cai said. Quitting her jobs would shrink the family finances.
“我害怕生完二胎后难以继续工作，”蔡薇说。辞去工作会让家里的收入缩水。
“I could be a full-time mom, or just work part-time, but that would be really hard,” she said. “Could we still afford our standard of living? What would life be like for us?”
“我可以当全职妈妈，或是做兼职，但真的会很难，”她说。“我们还能负担得起现在的生活水平吗，我们的日子会变成什么样？”
These questions haunt her.
这些问题一直萦绕在她的心头。
China’s social safety net is underdeveloped, too, she said. The state has been investing in a nationwide health insurance system, but other services are lacking, she said.
她说，中国的社会保障也不发达。国家一直在投资建立全国性的医保体系，但她说，其他服务依然缺乏。
“Like for working mothers, there’s nothing,” she said. “Who looks after your baby? A nanny is a very, very big cost.”
“比如对职场母亲，什么都没有，”她说。“谁给你看孩子？保姆是非常非常大的开支。”
Typically, a nanny in a big city like Beijing may cost between $235 and $475, or more, a month, depending on the nanny’s education.
通常，在像北京这样的大城市，一个月请保姆的花费在1500元到3000元之间，甚至更高，具体视保姆的受教育程度而定。
After several food safety disasters such as melamine-tainted infant formula and recycled “gutter oil” sold as cheap cooking oil, many families seek out safer, imported foods.
经历过几场食品安全事故，如婴儿配方奶粉被三聚氰胺污染，“地沟油”被回收，再被当做廉价食用油出售之后，很多家庭都转向了更安全的进口食物。
“We have to buy some imported foods, especially for our baby,” Ms. Cai said. “It’s expensive.”
“我们不得不买一些进口食品，特别是给孩子用的，”蔡薇说。“价格不菲。”
So though Ms. Cai wanted a second child, her initial enthusiasm has faded.
因此，尽管蔡薇想再生一个，但她最初的热情已经褪去了。
“In reality, everyone has thought this through,” she said. “We’ve known for a while that they would do this.”
“实际上，大家都仔细想过，”她说。“一段时间以前，我们就想到他们会这么做。”
The change in policy had been a government talking point for several years, and there were signs of increasing relaxation.
几年来，这项政策变动一直是政府讨论的话题。之前就有迹象表明，规定会越来越宽松。
And, she said, everyone knows why: A demographic crunch that policy-makers fear has cut into the labor force, and will create a giant cohort of elderly Chinese whom it will be a challenge to care for.
而且她说，所有人都知道是为什么：政策制定者担心，人口结构的变化已经削弱了劳动力，而且创造出了一大群老年人，照顾这些人将是一项挑战。
“The family planning policies have gone on for so long and there are so few little children,” she said. “But it’s not that simple to have a child. And I don’t mean in physical terms, that I’m 40 now. I mean in economic terms.”
“计划生育政策实行了这么长时间，小孩子很少，”她说。“但生孩子没那么简单。我不是说身体条件，我现在已经40岁了，而是在说经济层面。”
“I do know people with more than one child,” she concluded. “Even three. But they are very rich.”
“我的确认识一些不只有一个孩子的人，”她最后说。“甚至有三个孩子的。但他们都很有钱。”