THIMPHU, Bhutan — With just seconds left in the game, the queen of Bhutan went to the hole like a hungry snow leopard pouncing on a mountain goat, taking two dribbles and three long strides before putting up a royal layup.
不丹廷布——比赛仅剩几秒钟时，不丹王后如一头扑向高山羊的饥饿雪豹冲向篮筐，她运了两下球，迈出三大步，完成了一次皇家上篮。
Yes, your majesty!
得分，陛下。
Queen Jetsun Pema Wangchuck’s final basket was just one of 17 she made in a friendly game of basketball last month with nine other women. Basketball may be a street game in the United States, but it is the game of kings and queens in Bhutan.
王后吉增·佩玛·旺楚克(Jetsun Pema Wangchuck) 上个月与9名女子进行的篮球友谊赛中投中17球，这最后一球只是其中一例。在美国篮球也许是街头运动，而在不丹，这是属于国王和王后的运动。
Indeed, the 23-year-old queen, who plays almost every day, is surprisingly good. The royal set shot is as sweet as honeyed ghee, and the royal dribble as poised as a monk in meditation. Her statistics in that game were like those of an N.B.A. star: 34 points, 3 rebounds and 4 assists. (Perhaps it helped that the Bhutanese custom forbidding citizens from touching a royal without an invitation seems to extend to the basketball court.)
没错，这位23岁的王后几乎每天打篮球，而且打得出奇得好。她的立定投篮如加了蜂蜜的酥油般甜美，她的运球如冥想中的僧人般从容。在那场比赛中，她的表现有如NBA明星球员：34分，3个篮板，4次助攻。（不丹习俗规定，国民未经许可不得触碰皇室成员。这规矩似乎延伸到了篮球赛场上，也许起到了点作用。）
“If I had known you’d be counting, I would have played harder,” she said with a laugh. The queen’s husband, King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, his brother and two half-brothers also play regularly. But after decades of being a largely royal preserve, basketball here is about to have its breakout moment.
“早知道你在计分，我就打得更猛点，”她笑着说道。王后的夫君、国王吉格梅·凯萨尔·纳姆耶尔·旺楚克(Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck)和他的哥哥还有两个同父异母的兄弟也经常打篮球。篮球在过去几十年基本上是皇家专享运动，但这一情况即将得到突破。
A South Korean coach has been hired to cobble together a national team that many hope will someday be able to challenge its neighbors for bragging rights in South Asia and beyond. Bhutan has tried many times to win an international game but, except for a single victory in a three-on-three tournament, has never succeeded.
一位韩国教练受聘在不丹组建一支国家队。许多人希望有朝一日能藉此球队向其南亚邻国甚至更多国家发起挑战。不丹已多次尝试在国际比赛中取胜。但除了在一次三人制锦标赛中赢过一次以外，始终还未能如愿。
Bhutan’s main problem is height. Few in this nation of 742,000 are taller than 6 feet. The queen is 5-5, and her husband and brothers-in-law are not much taller. Dunking is almost as rare as dragons.
不丹的主要问题在于身高。这个国家74.2万人口中鲜有身高超过6英尺（约182厘米）的人。王后身高5英尺5英寸（约167厘米），她的丈夫和叔伯们也不比她高很多。扣篮几乎和真龙现身一样罕见。
“And I don’t think our backboards are strong enough to take a lot of dunking,” said Paljor Dorji, an impish 70-year-old known as Benji, who learned basketball from Canadian Jesuits at a boarding school in Darjeeling, India. He is widely credited with bringing the sport to Bhutan and instilling a passion for it in the royal family.
“我估计我们的篮板经不住多少次扣篮，”帕觉·多吉(Paljor Dorji)说道。这位人称本吉(Benji)的70岁的老顽童曾在印度大吉岭上住宿学校，从加拿大耶稣会士那里学会了打篮球。通常认为是他把这项运动带入不丹，并激发了皇室成员对这一运动的热情。
There is a saying in basketball that height cannot be taught, and Kiyong Kim, the new national team coach, says he does not intend to try.
篮球界有个说法：身高没法学习。新任国家队教练金基容（Kiyong Kim，音译）表示他无意在这方面花功夫。
“In order to cover the height problem, I’m trying to get them into a faster style of play,” Mr. Kim said through a giggling young interpreter. “We need stronger defense and better fast breaks.”
“为了弥补身高不足的问题，我在努力让他们加快打球节奏，”通过一个咯咯直笑的翻译，金基容讲道。“我们要加强防守，打出更好的快攻。”
On a worn parquet floor in the tired gymnasium where Queen Wangchuck played, Mr. Kim began that process Sept. 2. About 50 young men showed up for the first of what Mr. Kim promised would be years of regular practices.
在旺楚克王后比赛的这个陈旧体操馆，金基容从9月2日开始在已经磨损的木地板上组织训练。大约50名男青年参加了第一次训练，而金基容承诺在今后几年中会定期进行训练。
Bhutanese players say their best hope for a win could be against the Maldives, a country with half of Bhutan’s population that is threatened by global warming. As sea levels rise, Maldivians may have trouble finding places to play, players noted. And facing them in Thimphu’s thin air (the city’s altitude is 7,710 feet) could provide a crucial advantage.
不丹球员们认为，和马尔代夫比赛胜算最大。马尔代夫人口仅为不丹的一半，且一直面临全球气候变暖带来的威胁。球员们表示，随着海平面不断上升，马尔代夫人可能很难找到打球的场地。而在廷布比赛，稀薄的空气（这座城市海拔7710英尺，约合2350米）也是他们的一个关键优势。
“The thing I’ve noticed about Bhutanese basketball is that you guys don’t really care about defense,” Mr. Kim shouted while his players sweated and groaned in an extended squat. “That has to change. That will change.”
“我发现不丹人打篮球非常不注意防守，”金基容在队员们汗流浃背、无比痛苦地做深蹲练习时喊着话。“一定要改变这一点。一定会改变。”
It is a problem that could have resulted from basketball’s royal birth. Bhutanese royalty — like some princes of American basketball — is known more for enthusiastic shooting than vigorous defense. Bhutan’s fourth king, 57-year-old Jigme Singye Wangchuck, now retired and widely referred to simply as K4, still plays daily (Mr. Dorji instilled a passion for the game in the king when he was a teenager) and is rumored to have made 65 3-pointers in a game (the N.B.A. record is 12). No one seems to know how many shots he missed in that mythic match, as security guards shoo away the curious when K4 plays.
这一问题也许和篮球的皇室出身有关。不丹的皇室成员——和美国的一些篮球王子一样——更热衷于投篮而不是积极防守。不丹第四代国王、现年57岁的吉格梅·辛格·旺楚克(Jigme Singye Wangchuck)现已退位，大家都叫他K4。他仍每天打球（多吉在他十几岁时就培养了他对篮球的激情）。有传闻说他曾经在一场比赛中投进了65个三分球（NBA的记录不过12个）。似乎没人知晓他在那场神秘的比赛中几次投球未中，因为K4打球时警卫总会把好奇围观的人赶走。
The present king, known as K5, can shoot jumpers with both hands, and the royal drive to the basket is said to be like a freight train’s. But defense? Not in his tool kit, several players said.
现任国王被称为K5，两只手都可以跳投，据说他冲向篮筐时就像货运列车那样势不可挡。但防守呢？他不会防守，几名球员说。
Perhaps because of the royal’s exalted status, in two observed games, no one seemed excited about putting a body on an opposing royal. And fouling one? The question led to stunned looks and nervous giggles.
也许是因为王室至尊无上地位，在我们看到的两场比赛中，似乎没有人会因为被分到跟王室成员对抗的那一队而兴奋。对他们犯了规呢？这个问题引来了目瞪口呆的表情和紧张的笑声。
“I fouled the queen once,” Yeshey Om, a 20-year-old college student in Thimphu, said as though remembering a car wreck. “I was a little scared, but she said, ‘It’s OK.’
“有一次我对王后使用了犯规动作，”20岁的廷布大学生耶喜·安(Yeshey Om)说。她的表情就像是回忆交通事故。 “我当时有点害怕，但她说，‘没关系’。 ”
“She wants us to check her, and she gets mad if we don’t. She thinks we’re scared of her,” Ms. Om said, and then added: “We are scared of her.”
耶喜·安说，“她希望我们伸手去防她，如果我们不这么做，她就会生气，觉得我们很怕她。”接着她又说：“我们是怕她。”
Before the queen arrived to play, a royal retinue rolled out a red carpet between the gym’s entry and the basketball court. Beside the court, courtiers placed a chair covered in saffron silk and brought in an elaborately carved wooden table covered in more silk on which they placed chilled bottles of water. A clutch of women filtered in and whispered until the queen appeared carrying a Louis Vuitton purse and wearing a teal T-shirt, black tights and neon-pink Nike sneakers. She greeted the players cheerfully but quickly went out on the court, where the women split into well-remembered teams.
在王后到达球场之前，王室随从在健身房门口和篮球场之间铺上了一卷红地毯。在球场旁边，侍臣们放了一把椅子，上面铺着橘黄丝绸，还搬来一张精雕细刻的木桌，上面铺着更多丝绸，他们把几瓶冰水放在桌上。一群女子鱼贯而入，低声交谈，直到背着路易威登(Louis Vuitton)小包、穿着蓝绿色T恤、黑色紧身裤和荧光粉耐克运动鞋的王后出现。她乐呵呵地跟球员们打招呼，很快走到了球场上，而后大家按照老规矩分成了两队，
A man standing at attention at a small scorer’s table started a digital clock, and a klaxon sounded. Queen Wangchuck scored her team’s second basket on a well-practiced give-and-go. She then scored on two fast breaks, and on a 15-footer that led her to check a fingernail with some concern. Near the end of the first quarter, she drove to the basket through a suspiciously wide lane.
一名男子立正站在一个小记分台旁，启动数字时钟，笛声响起。旺楚克王后靠着一个动作熟练的传切配合，投进了她所在球队的第二个球。之后她又通过两次快攻得了分。在一个15英尺外的投篮之后，她有些担忧地检查了一下自己的手指甲。第一个四分之一场快结束时，她运球直冲篮下，一路上防守宽松的出奇。
Her majesty’s team built a huge lead until the opposing players — performing a role akin to that of the Washington Generals, the famously inept nemeses of the Harlem Globetrotters — tightened their defense. To her credit, Queen Wangchuck rose to the challenge, hitting a jump shot just inside the 3-point line and driving hungrily to the basket with a defender in her face in the last seconds. The final score was 74-60.
王后陛下的那一队遥遥领先，直到对方球员——她们扮演的角色类似于华盛顿将军(Washington Generals)表演队，即哈林篮球队(Harlem Globetrotters)的对手，出了名的无能——收紧了防守。值得赞扬的是，旺楚克王后无惧这个挑战，在比赛快结束前，她3分线往里一点的地方跳投命中一次，还在一名球员的贴防下气势汹汹地运球到篮下。最后的比分是74比60。
In an interview after the game, Queen Wangchuck said that she has been playing basketball since she was 9 “and I haven’t stopped since.” (Marketing opportunity alert: she would “love to be invited” to the N.B.A. finals.)
比赛结束后接受记者采访时，旺楚克王后说，她从9岁开始打篮球，“之后从未间断”。 （营销机会提醒：如果受邀参加NBA总决赛，她会“乐于”参加。）
“For me now, basketball is a great way of meeting girls and interacting with them in an informal way,” said the queen, a former commoner and a renowned beauty.
“现在对于我来说，打篮球是和姑娘们见面的最佳方式，可以和她们轻松地互动，”旺楚克王后说，她是平民出身，也是一位著名的美女。
And then a courtier who had just tried to block her majesty’s shot (and had made three of her five 3-point shot attempts,) opened the door of the royal Toyota Prius and — the game decidedly over — bowed low as the queen hopped inside and was driven away.
刚刚还试图封住王后投球（并5次投三分球3次得手）的一位侍臣拉开御用丰田普锐斯的车门，并在王后跳上车、司机驾车离开时深深鞠躬——比赛的确已经结束。