The trailer begins with a basketball player in an empty locker room, head bowed in concentration. Portentous trailer music swells. That’s followed by exciting basketball footage, including an on-court scuffle. The star is shown to run the gamut of emotions, his face at times contorted.
预告片的开头，一名篮球运动员待在空荡荡的更衣室里，专心致志地低着头。宏大的预告片配乐响起。随后是一串刺激的篮球比赛镜头，其中包括一次场上冲突。球星的种种情绪都被呈现出来，他的脸不时扭曲。
A mentor touches his chest and tells him, “You’ve got to believe in what’s here.”
一名教练触碰他的胸膛，告诉他，“你必须相信自己的心。”
It could be any Hollywood basketball movie. But it’s “My Other Home,” the Stephon Marbury story. And it stars Stephon Marbury as Stephon Marbury.
这可以是任何一部好莱坞篮球电影。但它是《我是马布里》(My Other Home)，斯蒂芬·马布里(Stephon Marbury)的故事。饰演斯蒂芬·马布里的是斯蒂芬·马布里本人。
“It was pretty interesting,” said Marbury, the actor, by telephone from Shanghai. “It’s something completely different, when the person’s playing that person. When people look at me acting, they don’t see someone playing a part. They don’t understand that playing this role, it was complicated. I wasn’t playing myself. I was playing a role.”
“非常有意思，”身在上海的演员马布里通过电话表示。“一个人饰演他本人，是某种完全不同的体验。人们看我表演时不觉得我是在扮演一个角色。他们不明白演这个角色是很复杂的事情。我其实不是在演自己，我是在演一个角色。”
Marbury, 40, has been a popular star in the Chinese basketball world since signing there in 2010. His American career had its ups and downs, often stalled by feuds and controversy. After stints with the Timberwolves, the Nets, the Suns, the Knicks and the Celtics, he rejuvenated his career in China with the Shanxi Zhongyu Brave Dragons and later the Beijing Ducks. He has also embraced Chinese culture. “It’s just something about the serenity and peace of the country,” he said not long after his arrival. “I can’t really explain it; you’ve got to experience it.”
马布里今年40岁，自从2010年与中国球队签约以来，他已经成为中国篮球界一个广受欢迎的明星。此前，他在美国的职业生涯起起落落，常常充满纠纷和争议。在为灰狼队(Timberwolves)、网队(Nets)、太阳队(Suns)、尼克斯队(Knicks)和凯尔特人队(Celtics)效力之后，他到中国重新开启了自己的职业生涯，先是加盟山西中宇猛龙队，然后是北京首钢队。他还张开双臂拥抱中国文化。“这个国家有种宁静平和的东西，”他抵达中国不久后表示。“我解释不清；你得自己去体验。”
His career soon expanded beyond the court. He wrote a column for China Daily. In 2014, he appeared in a musical, “I Am Stephon Marbury,” that played in Beijing for 13 performances in front of 1,500 theatergoers a night.
他的职业生涯很快就拓展到球场之外。他为《中国日报》(China Daily)写过专栏。2014年，他出现在音乐剧《我是马布里》中，该剧在北京上演了13场，每场有1500名观众。
Now it’s the silver screen. “My Other Home,” directed by Larry Yang, was shown at the Shanghai Film Festival earlier this week.
现在他又登上了大银幕。由杨子导演的《我是马布里》于本周早些时候在上海电影节展映。
In English and Chinese, it tells the story of Marbury, focusing on his years in China. And it mostly sticks to the facts, Marbury said.
该片以中英两种语言讲述马布里的故事，重点描绘了他在中国这些年的经历。马布里说，它基本符合事实。
“It’s basically what happened,” he said. “It’s the truth. Certain things that happened, like when my father died, were a little different, but 95 percent is the truth.”
“它呈现的基本是发生过的事情，”他说。“它讲述了事实。某些事实，比如我父亲去世的时候，稍微有些出入，但95%是真实的。”
His father, Don, died Dec. 2, 2007, after attending a Knicks-Suns game.
2007年12月2日，他的父亲唐(Don)在前去观看尼克斯队和太阳队的一场比赛后去世。
The supporting cast is familiar to basketball fans as well. Allen Iverson has a cameo as himself. Another former player, Baron Davis, appears as, according to Marbury, "a guy who is like the foreigner of the other team who we played against to beat in the championship.”
众位配角也是篮球迷们所熟悉的。艾伦·艾佛森(Allen Iverson)客串演出他自己。据马布里介绍，另一名前球员拜伦·戴维斯(Baron Davis)扮演“另一支球队里的外国球员，我们在冠军赛里击败了他们”。
While Marbury modestly awards his own acting skills a “four or five,” he said: “Baron was like an eight or nine. He’s really good.”
马布里谦虚地给自己的演技打了“四或五分”，但他表示：“拜伦有八或九分。他演得非常好。”
Looking to appeal to every demographic, the film also features Jessica Jung, a former member of the K-pop group Girls’ Generation, as Marbury’s manager.
为了尽可能地吸引各种受众群体，片中马布里的经理人一角由韩国流行音乐天团少女时代(Girls’ Generation)前成员郑秀妍(Jessica Jung)扮演。
“The people loved the movie,” Marbury said after the festival. “This will give people an understanding about what happened. It’s inspirational. When you hear about a black guy with a statue in Beijing, they wonder how a foreigner comes to a country and receives all these high honors."
“人们喜欢这部电影，”马布里在参加电影节后表示。“它会让人们明白发生了什么。它很励志。当人们听说一个黑人在北京有了一座雕塑的时候，他们会好奇一个外国人怎么就到了一个国家，并获得了所有这些殊荣。”
There is indeed a statue of Marbury in Beijing. “People say it doesn’t look like me,” Marbury said. “But I know it does, because I know the face I made when they made the statue.”
在北京的确有一座马布里的雕塑。“人们说它看上去不像我，”马布里说。“但我觉得挺像的，因为我认出了他们制作雕塑时我做的表情。”
Athletes have appeared as themselves in movies before. Gary Cooper played Lou Gehrig in “Pride of the Yankees” but Babe Ruth played himself. Jackie Robinson starred in “The Jackie Robinson Story,” and the decathlete Bob Mathias in “The Bob Mathias Story.” At the very least, casting an athlete gives the sports action sequences verisimilitude.
运动员在电影中扮演其本人并非没有先例。《洋基之光》(The Pride of the Yankees)里，鲁‧贾里格(Lou Gehrig)由加里·库珀(Gary Cooper)饰演，但饰演贝比‧鲁斯(Babe Ruth)的是他本人。杰基·罗宾逊(Jackie Robinson)主演了《杰基·罗宾逊的故事》(The Jackie Robinson Story)，十项全能选手鲍勃·马蒂亚斯(Bob Mathias)则主演了《鲍勃·马蒂亚斯的故事》(The Bob Mathias Story)。至少，运动员进入演员阵容会让片中的体育运动场景更为真实。
Marbury said there were differences between the N.B.A. and the Chinese Basketball Association beyond mere quality of play.
马布里说，除了比赛质量，NBA和CBA之间还有一些差异。
“It’s pretty simple.” he said. “The N.B.A. is man to man. In China, you can play box and one, triangle. The defense is harder. You’ve got to know how to score. If guys can’t score but are great shot blockers, they can make it in the N.B.A. In China, you’ve got to put it in the hole.” And Marbury can certainly do that, averaging 21.4 points a game last season.
“很简单，”他说。“NBA比赛是人盯人。在中国，你可以进行1-4区域联防，可以采取三角战术。防守更坚固。你得知道如何得分。无法得分但却擅长盖帽的球员在NBA可以获得成功。但在中国，你得把球送进篮筐。”而马布里当然能做到，上一赛季他平均每场得分21.4分。
Marbury and the Ducks have parted ways, and his plans next season are uncertain. But as for acting, the future is clearer.
马布里已经和北京首钢队分道扬镳，下一赛季的计划尚未确定。不过他在表演方面的未来则更为明朗。
“They’re doing a sequel,” he said. “I’m down for it.”
“他们要拍续集，”他说。“我会加入。”