In his groundbreaking novels “The Book of Laughter and Forgetting” (1980) and “The Unbearable Lightness of Being” (1984), the Czech-born Milan Kundera wrote about his country under the shadow of the Soviet Union, reinventing the form of the novel while examining the osmosis between the personal and the political there, and the subversive roles that humor and irreverence can play in a totalitarian state.
捷克裔作家米兰·昆德拉(Milan Kundera)在他开创性的小说《笑忘书》(The Book of Laughter and Forgetting, 1980)和《生命中不能承受之轻》(The Unbearable Lightness of Being, 1984)里重新定义了小说的形式，书写苏联阴影下的祖国，审视那里个体与政治之间的互相渗透，以及幽默与不敬在极权主义国家中所扮演的颠覆性角色。
During that time, he recalled in a 1980 interview, a sense of humor was a sign that a person could be trusted. He added, however, that laughter came in different forms: the laughter of genuine joy versus the laughter of “angel-fanatics,” who are so certain of their own worldview that they are “ready to hang anyone not sharing their joy”; the laughter that recognizes the Kafkaesque absurdities of life (particularly in an authoritarian regime) versus the sort of nihilistic laughter “which proclaims that everything has become meaningless.”
在1980年的一次访谈中，他回忆，那段时期，有无幽默感是一个人是否值得信赖的重要标志。不过，他补充说，“笑”也有很多不同的形式，有真诚的欢笑，也有“狂热天使”式的笑，这种人对自己的世界观过于自信，所以“谁不欣赏他们的笑话，他们就可以把那人吊死”；另外还有为生活中卡夫卡式的荒诞（特别是在专制统治之下）所发出的笑，以及“宣告一切都没有意义”的虚无主义的笑。
In “The Festival of Insignificance,” his flimsy new novella about a group of friends in Paris, Mr. Kundera — who has been living in France, “his second homeland,” since 1975 — returns to many of these same themes. But instead of a profound meditation on political and psychological freedom, he has produced an extremely slight musing on people’s proclivities for pranks, lies and perverse choices — like a waiter pretending to be from Pakistan and babbling in his own made-up language; a man pretending to have cancer when he is perfectly healthy (in a section titled “The Secret Charm of a Grave Illness”); and women taking up with a boring man precisely because he is boring and makes such banal conversation.
《庆祝无意义》(The Festival of Insignificance)只有薄薄一本，是昆德拉最新的中篇小说，主人公是一群住在巴黎的朋友们——昆德拉现居法国，自从1975年起，法国就成了“他的第二故乡”。书中重复了他之前的若干主题，但是这一次，他并没有就政治与精神上的自由做出深刻思省，而是就人类恶作剧、谎言与做出乖僻选择的倾向进行了一番小小沉思——比如有个侍者假装自己来自巴基斯坦，用自编的语言胡说八道；有个健康的男人假装患有癌症（那一节的名字叫“暗藏在重病中的魅力”）；女人们看上一个乏味的男人要好，正是因为他乏味无趣，可以和他聊些庸俗的话题。
In fact, this novella (which was written in French) not only takes place in Paris but also reflects a Parisian salonlike fascination with tongue-in-cheek amusements and poses — as opposed to the Central European outlook evinced by the author’s early books. Those works were concerned not with the intellectual games of jaded Western sophisticates but with the struggles of a small country and ordinary people to hold onto a sense of independence in the face of tyranny.
事实上，这部中篇小说（用法语写成）不止发生在巴黎，也反映出一种巴黎沙龙式的作风，一种对信口开河的消遣与姿态的迷恋，这和作者早期著作中那种中欧气质截然不同。那些早期作品关注的不是久经世故，心怀厌倦的西方知识分子们的智力游戏，而是小国家与平凡的人们在暴君统治中坚持独立的斗争。
Jokes in Mr. Kundera’s early books signified an unwillingness to cave to officialdom and ideological certainty. Jokes in “Festival” are not about defiance, and they’re not about an innocent joy in the magic of play. Rather, they fall into the category of nihilistic hoaxes or the tired efforts of would-be artists to amuse themselves.
在昆德拉的早期作品中，“玩笑”意指一种对官僚主义与意识形态必然性的不愿屈从。而在《庆祝无意义》中，玩笑不再是一种反抗，也不是戏剧的魔力中单纯的欢乐。它们成为虚无主义的恶作剧，或是那些自诩为艺术家的人们自娱自乐的倦怠行为。
“We’ve known for a long time that it was no longer possible to overturn this world, nor reshape it, nor head off its dangerous headlong rush,” says one character to the pretend-Pakistani waiter. “There’s been only one possible resistance: to not take it seriously. But I think our jokes have lost their power. You force yourself to speak Pakistani to cheer yourself up. In vain. All you get out of it is weariness and boredom.”
“我们很久以来就明白世界是不可能推翻的，不可能改造的，也是不可能阻挡其不幸的进展的，”书中一个人物对那个假装成巴基斯坦人的侍者说。“只有一种可能的抵挡：不必认真对待。但是我看到我们的玩笑已经失去其能力。你强迫自己说巴基斯坦语寻开心。也是白费。你能感到的只是疲劳与厌烦而已。”（本段翻译来自马振聘中译本——译注）
There are occasional strained efforts to inject “The Festival of Insignificance” with some significance. There is a story Stalin reportedly told about seeing 24 partridges in a tree, using the 12 rounds he had in his gun to shoot half of them, then going back home, many kilometers away, to fetch 12 more rounds and finding the remaining birds still in the tree waiting to be killed — an anecdote recounted in actual biographies of that Soviet dictator.
《庆祝无意义》中偶尔会勉强试图插入一些意义。书中有一个故事，是斯大林经常给别人讲起的，他说自己在一棵树上看到24只鹧鸪，用枪里的12颗子弹打死了12只，然后走了好几公里回家，又拿了12颗子弹，看到剩下的鹧鸪还停在那棵树上等死——这则轶事在这位苏联独裁者的许多真实传记中亦曾被提起。
There are Pirandello-like asides by the narrator, who may or may not be a stand-in for Mr. Kundera. And there are some unconvincing accounts about two characters’ relationships with their mothers, which seem meant to recall the relationship between the narrator and his mother in Camus’s novel “The Stranger.”
书中的叙事者还做了若干皮兰德娄式(Pirandello-like)的旁白，他或许是，也或许不是昆德拉本人的化身。还有一些描述是关于书中两个角色同他们的母亲之间的关系，读来不太可信，似乎是想让人回想起加缪的小说《局外人》(The Stranger)中叙事者与母亲之间的关系。
None of these references lift this book or imbue it with added meaning. Just as one character’s penchant for navel gazing — surveying the midsections of young women walking the Paris streets and parks, while making portentous philosophical remarks — reads like a coy, obvious joke about narcissism, so does this novella’s title, “The Festival of Insignificance,” read like a knowing, pre-emptive joke about its own superficiality.
这些参照并未能提升这本书，抑或为它带来附加的意义。书中的一个角色喜欢凝视别人的肚脐——他专门在巴黎的街道和公园游荡，看着年轻女人的小腹，同时发表一些装腔作势的哲学评论，这一段读起来有点像一则关于自恋狂的玩笑，忸怩而又平淡；而小说的题目“庆祝无意义”则像是一个洞悉一切，先发制人的玩笑，戏谑地说出自身的肤浅。