It was a small step for mankind – but a stride forward for Giorgio Armani, as the maestro of Milan slimmed down his iconic silhouette.
这是人类的一小步，却是乔治·阿玛尼(Giorgio Armani)向前迈出的一大步——这位米兰时装大师把他标志性的剪裁收紧了一点。
An infusion of sport into semiformal outfits was the overall message for summer 2014, and on the closing day of the men’s wear season, Mr. Armani was on message. The leaner pants and the fusion of classic tailoring with zippers or high-tech fabrics loosened up his look.
把运动风格融入半正式的套装中是2014夏季的总体趋势，在男装周的闭幕日上，阿玛尼也传递了这个讯息。更修身的长裤，以及经典裁剪风格与拉链或高科技面料的融合让他的服装系列看起来休闲了很多。
The latest Armani image was not a sartorial revolution; the designer does things his way. But even the colors looked refreshed, with bright navy, splashed on a tie-dye bag, and blush pink or peach jackets replacing the more familiar beige.
阿玛尼的最新形象不是剪裁上的革命，这位设计师有他自己做事的方法。但是甚至连色彩都鲜亮了很多，手包上是扎染的亮海军蓝色，嫩粉色或桃红色的夹克取代了常见的米色。
The concept of “smart casual” may be familiar, but there was a strong play on fabrics. The results were cardigans that looked like the texture was pressed into the wool and jackets that appeared to be woven. Even the evening outfit that took a bow had melted from strict to soft.
大家可能刚刚熟悉“时尚休闲”这个概念，设计师们又开始在面料上大做文章了。结果我们看到，开襟羊毛衫看起来像是纹理被压进了毛料里，上衣看起来像是缝制而成的。甚至连谢幕的晚装也从笔挺向柔和过渡。
“I like the idea of an unfinished outfit – a work in progress,” said Silvia Venturini Fendi, as she watched the models, with their raw-edge pockets, walk in a continuous loop over a path of golden sand.
“我喜欢‘未完成的套装’这个概念——一件制作中的作品，”西尔维亚·文图里尼·芬迪(Silvia Venturini Fendi)说。她看着模特们穿着口袋未锁边的衣服，走在秀台上用金色沙子铺成的圆环上。
The setting might have suggested vacation days, yet from loose coats to a leather T-shirt to work-wear suits, the clothes were often in dark, slightly African colors, like indigo with mustard.
这个布景也许暗示着假日，不过不管是宽松的外衣、皮制的T恤还是工装服，它们的颜色大多比较深，略带非洲风情，比如湛蓝搭配芥末黄。
Ms. Fendi explained that these were nonseasonal clothes — a flow forward from the winter collection. The result was strong on individual pieces: elongated anoraks, a deconstructed suit in khaki, a T-shirt with an artistic swoosh of color. It looked like a real wardrobe offering a man the chance to pick and choose.
芬迪女士解释说，这些衣服是不分季节的——是冬季系列的延伸。这一点在单品上表现得尤为明显：加长的厚外套、卡其色拼接西服上衣、有点艺术色彩的T恤。这个系列看起来像一个真正的衣橱，让男人有机会好好选择。
The Brioni look was defined and refined. Set in the courtyard of the Brera Academy, with its classical pillars and statues, the aim of the designer Brendan Mullane was to give a whiff of the brand’s Roman heritage.
布里奥尼(Brioni)的新系列特色鲜明、精致优雅。发布会设在布雷拉美术学院(Brera Academy)的庭院里，设计师布兰登·马兰(Brendan Mullane)想借这里的古典廊柱和雕塑显示该品牌的罗马渊源。
“While everyone imagines Rome as terra cotta, yellow and red, I went early in morning to the Vatican and there were steely grays,” said Mr. Mullane, who even injected the effect of tiles from the Villa Medici into the tailored clothes.
“每个人都以为罗马是赤褐色的、黄色的、红色的，但是我一大早去了梵蒂冈，那里是铁灰色的，”马兰说。他甚至把美第奇别墅(Villa Medici)的屋瓦效果投射到了定制服装上。
Taking 1950s Visconti movies as inspiration — and especially that high-waisted, slim silhouette — the Brioni look was rich in texture, delicately done. The designer explained how he would inject sensual wine red among the “cold” gray colors. In one case, an apparent crisscross sweater turned out to be woven suede.
布里奥尼的新系列以20世纪50年代维斯康蒂(Visconti)的电影为灵感来源——特别是高腰、修长的剪裁——这个系列面料丰富、制作精良。设计师解释了他将如何把感性的酒红色加入“冰冷的”灰色之中。其中一个例子就是一件看似采用十字形编织的毛衣，实际上是用羊羔皮缝制而成的。
This softly, softly approach to rejuvenating Brioni, without losing a drop of fine quality, is a trajectory that looks convincing.
以这种温和的方法复兴布里奥尼，完全不会丧失其上乘的品质，是一条看起来十分可靠的发展道路。
Belstaff also went for a static lineup of its outerwear, based on its heritage of British motor sport.
贝达弗(Belstaff)也保持其稳定的外套风貌，仍以英国赛车服传统为基础。
“Pefecting the perfecto,” said the designer Martin Cooper, who had some beat-up original jackets on display alongside the 18 outfits. They took the multi-pocket jacket from tomato red through neutral gray to a camouflage pattern painted by hand.
“让完美更完美，”设计师马丁·库珀(Martin Cooper)说。除了那18套服装，他还展示了一些做旧的原创外套。它们有多个口袋，颜色也是多样多样——番茄红、中性灰以及手绘的迷彩色。
Variations on the tough outerwear theme included leather — even as a seductive, fitted jumpsuit — merino wool sweaters and cropped leather jackets. Small polka dots for neckerchiefs completed a wardrobe that is growing in personality each season.
除了硬汉外套这个主题之外，还有其他一些衣服，包括皮衣——甚至还有一件性感、合身的连衣裤——美利奴毛衣以及裁切不正的皮夹克。领巾上的小波尔卡圆点使这个系列更完整，更有个性。
A Hawaiian backdrop, lush with greenery and a mini waterfall, suggested a more laid-back wardrobe than DSquared2 offered — even if the show started with men in underpants and swim trunks with live parakeets as an accessory.
D二次方(DSquared2)的秀台背景是夏威夷，有大量的绿色植物和一个小瀑布，暗示着这个系列比以往更休闲——开场的男模特们甚至穿着内裤或者泳裤，搭配鲜亮的鹦鹉尾巴挂饰。
The darker note came with a story line that these were soldiers, washed up on a paradise isle, mixing in pieces of military uniform, sometimes shabby, always firm and heavy. This summer-with-a-dark side fit with a general feeling this Milan season and made for a DSquared2 collection that was less of the usual romp and with more substance.
故事慢慢展开，基调变得有点阴暗，原来他们是士兵，来这个天堂般的小岛度假，出现了一些军服，有的故意做旧，但总是坚定而厚重。这个“带有阴暗面的夏日度假”系列与本次米兰时装周的总体风格挺契合，不像以往的系列那么嬉闹，多了一些内容。
Umit Benan’s show had a poignancy because he went back to his Turkish roots at a time when his country is in turmoil. The “Istanbul Gentleman” was expressed by a classic darbuka played on stage and by masks of elderly whiskery-faced men wearing fezzes.
尤米特·毕南(Umit Benan)的时装秀有点辛酸，因为他回归自己的土耳其根源寻找灵感，而此时他的祖国正处于混乱之中。“伊斯坦布尔绅士”的概念通过秀台上播放的经典手鼓音乐以及上了年纪的蓄须男模特戴的面罩和土耳其毡帽表达出来。
Mr. Benan has a knack of making hefty classic pieces, such as a three-piece checked suit or trench coat, look modern. This show was yet another step forward in his intriguing journey.
毕南有一种本领，能让沉重的经典服装（比如三件套格纹西服或者战壕风衣）看起来很现代。这场时装秀只是他迷人之旅的又一步。
Individuality is at a premium among Milan’s mighty brands. Massimo Piombo, creating a line with the fabled Kiton tailor from Naples with his MP Massimo Piombo line, brought his joyous sense of color and global intelligence to create jackets of Indian silk or Ethiopian cotton: an appealing mix of the ethnic and the formal.
对米兰的大品牌来说，个性非常珍贵。马西莫·彼雅泊(Massimo Piombo)和传奇的姬特(Kiton)品牌的那不勒斯裁缝合作，打造了他的MP Massimo Piombo系列，用他令人愉悦的色彩感和全球视野创作了用印度丝绸或者埃塞俄比亚棉布做成的上装：民族特色和正式服装的迷人组合。
“A sportified urban elegance” was the tag that ZZegna was given by the creative director Paul Surridge. But however casual the approach to soft tailoring, fabric research, technical and high performance, is at the soul of the brand.
“城市优雅运动风”是设计指导保罗·萨里奇(Paul Surridge)为ZZegna品牌赋予的标志。但是不管它有多么休闲，柔软的裁剪、对面料的探索、先进的工艺与极高的性能一直都在这个品牌的灵魂之中。
At Uman, the “Mogambo” safari jacket worn by Clark Gable in the 1953 movie set off an African inspiration from Umberto Angeloni, whose other arm is the Caruso shirt and tailoring house. There, Africa prints were in the frame in a display that was offered with wit and flair – making this editor wonder why more Milan collections are not presented imaginatively off the runway.
克拉克·盖博(Clark Gable)在1953年的电影《红尘》(Mogambo)中穿的那件狩猎外套让乌姆贝托·安杰洛尼(Umberto Angeloni)为Uman的新系列找到了非洲的灵感，这位设计师同时还负责Caruso衬衣和裁剪公司。在这个品牌的发布会上，方框形的非洲印花巧妙而有品味，让我这个时尚编辑想知道为什么米兰的大多数时装品牌在秀台之下展示的时候不能这么有想象力。