At their Milan atelier, one of the last truly Old World interiors firms, Studio Peregalli, is making history — mining everything from the high Renaissance to the Victorian era — to create deeply poetic spaces that transcend the bounds of time.
佩雷加利工作室(Studio Peregalli)位于米兰，是世上仅存的少数几家具有真正意义上的“旧大陆”情调的室内设计事务所之一。它正在创造历史——挖掘从文艺复兴盛期到维多利亚时代的所有建筑元素，以构建饱含诗意、超越时空界限的建筑空间。
The Italian phrase “buttato lì” translates, roughly, as “something that seems casual whereas it is completely thought out,” the interior designer Roberto Peregalli explains. The term comes up often as he and his collaborator, the architect Laura Sartori Rimini, describe the atmosphere of their office as well as the projects that are born there.
在意大利语中，“buttato lì”这个短语可以粗略地翻译成，“看似漫不经心、实则用心良苦的举动，”室内设计师罗伯托·佩雷加利(Roberto Peregalli)解释道。罗伯托及其合伙人、建筑师劳拉·萨托利·里米尼(Laura Sartori Rimini)在描述工作室氛围及其创作的作品时，经常提到这个短语。
They are partners in Studio Peregalli, one of the most highly regarded decorating and architecture firms in the world, known for extraordinary attention to detail and an uncanny ability to conjure the rarefied spirit of historical eras long forgotten. We are sitting in their design studio, surrounded by stone samples, fabric swatches, fragments of boiserie and classical cornices, antique light fixtures, architectural models and stacks and stacks of hand-painted tiles. The walls appear to be covered in embossed antique leather, but a brush of the fingers reveals it to be paper. The sun, streaming in from a balcony, illuminates the dark and high-ceilinged room like a 19th-century watercolor in a book by Mario Praz. (For a good primer on the literary critic and design historian, I recommend the incredible 1974 Visconti film “Conversation Piece” — the Burt Lancaster character is based on Praz.)
他们合伙创立了佩雷加利工作室。这是世界上最受重视的装潢和建筑公司之一。它之所以闻名于世，不仅因其创作方式细致入微，而且擅长以魔术般的手法巧妙地还原历史的荣光。我们正置身于他们的设计工作室中，周围全是石材样品、布料色板、墙裙和古典飞檐的残片、古董灯具、建筑模型及成堆的手绘瓷砖。墙面看似铺设着饰有浮雕的古董皮革，但用手指轻轻一拂，就会发现这其实是纸质材料。日光从阳台倾泻进来，照亮了这处昏暗、挑高的房间，看起来就像马里奥·普拉兹（Mario Praz，意大利文学批评家、散文家——译注）的书中描绘的一幅19世纪的水彩画。（我在这里向大家推荐维斯孔蒂[Visconti，意大利电影和戏剧导演——译注]于1974年出品的杰作《家族的肖像》[Conversation Piece]，这是文学批评和设计史的绝佳入门教材，其中伯特·兰开斯特[Burt Lancaster，美国演员——译注]饰演的角色就是以普拉兹为原型塑造的。）
It is clear that the work under way here is on the highest level of artistic achievement, so much so, in fact, that the principals’ relative youth and lack of pretense is almost disconcerting. As congenial and unassuming as Roberto and Laura are, what they are doing is happening nowhere else in the world of design. From this lovely studio on a quiet residential street in Milan — the capital of fashion, and Italy’s most hard-charging commercial environment — they are quietly going about the business of creating interiors that are steeped in historical context yet somehow highly personal.
这里出产的作品，显然代表着水准最高的艺术成就。而工作室的领导者却相对年轻、毫不做作，与他们取得的成就相比，这一点几乎令人讶异。罗伯托和劳拉志趣相投，为人谦逊，两人所做的事情在设计界可谓绝无仅有。在米兰这个时尚之都及意大利竞争最激烈的商业环境里，他们这间温馨的工作室坐落在一条宁静的社区街道上。他们在这里默默打理着室内设计的业务，其作品不仅历史风情浓厚，而且个性十足。
“I discovered Roberto Peregalli’s house in Tangier, and when I saw it I was very, very moved,” says Pierre Bergé, the former fashion executive and partner of Yves Saint Laurent. “I fell in love immediately — I never saw in my life such beauty, such romance, such expression of the culture of the country.” Studio Peregalli is nearly finished with an apartment for him on the Rue Bonaparte in Paris.
“我在丹吉尔（Tangier，摩洛哥北部海港——译注）发现了罗伯托·佩雷加利设计的房子，当时心里非常、非常触动，”时装品牌伊夫·圣·洛朗(Yves Saint Laurent)的前首席执行官及合伙人皮埃尔·贝尔热(Pierre Bergé)说，“我一下子就喜欢上了那座房子——我这一生中从没见过那么美、那么浪漫、那么能体现一国文化的事物。”佩雷加利工作室为他在巴黎波拿巴街(Rue Bonaparte)设计的公寓，目前已经快要完工了。
Hamish Bowles agrees. “There’s no one doing work like that now — no one with that precise sensibility,” notes the international editor at large for American Vogue, also a client. “I have never ceded my taste to anybody else, even as a child,” he says, but Studio Peregalli has just finished an apartment for Bowles off University Place in Manhattan. It was the studio’s first New York project, and it is at work on another, for the painter John Currin and his wife, Rachel Feinstein.
哈米什·鲍尔斯(Hamish Bowles)对上述说法也颇为认同。“现在已经没有人以那种方式创作了——没有人具备那样精准的艺术嗅觉。”鲍尔斯是《时尚/美国版》(American Vogue)的资深国际编辑，也是佩雷加利工作室的客户之一。“在品味的问题上，我从来不向他人示弱，即使小时候也是这样，”他说，但佩雷加利工作室刚刚为鲍尔斯装修完成其在曼哈顿大学街(University Place)的公寓。这是该工作室在纽约开展的第一个项目，第二个项目正在进行中，客户是画家约翰·柯林(John Currin)及其妻蕾切尔·法因施泰因(Rachel Feinstein)。
The garden designer Madison Cox is another friend, client and admirer unafraid to employ superlatives when describing their work. “They are the most unique designers that I have come across,” Cox says. “What they do is about capturing the past, but it’s also about magic — and a great sense of poetry. They proposed something to me I would never even have thought of — in fact it kind of terrified me.” (We can tell you it involved the unlikely marriage of a dome and a garden shed.)
园林设计师麦迪逊·考克斯(Madison Cox)是罗伯托和劳拉的另一位朋友，也是他们的客户和崇拜者，他对两人的工作丝毫不吝赞美之词。“他们是我见过的最独特的设计师，”考克斯说，“他们所做的不仅仅是捕捉历史，还能发挥出一种魔力——并显露出深厚敏锐的诗意表达。他们提出了一个我想都没有想过的设计方案——其实我有点被吓到了。”（不妨告诉大家，这个设计方案包括将半圆形穹顶与花园棚屋这两个看似不相关的元素结合在一起。）
Although the studio has been in business for over 20 years, has shown many of its European interiors in various magazines and in 2011 published a book of its work — the evocatively titled “The Invention of the Past” (Rizzoli) — the work of Roberto and Laura is not especially well known in America. Perhaps one reason for this is that their design process is somewhat cerebral, and may require a measure of patience on the part of their clients that’s more rarely encountered in the New World than in the Old. Their process is elaborate, their studio more densely packed with models than Leo’s hot tub. “Designing for us is a process, step by step,” Laura says. “It begins with an idea; then a sketch, then a model.”
佩雷加利工作室已经创立了20年，它在欧洲的许多设计作品被各大杂志刊载，2011年还推出一部作品集，书名颇为怀旧，叫做《发明过往》(The Invention of the Past)，出版商是里佐利(Rizzoli)出版社。尽管如此，罗伯托和劳拉的作品在美国的知名度并不算太高。或许原因之一在于，他们的创作过程从某种程度上讲，是一项脑力劳动，可能需要客户具备一定的耐心；而在新大陆，有耐心的客户并不如旧世大陆的多。罗伯托和劳拉在每一个创作过程中都尽心尽力，他们的工作室里堆满了设计模型，数量比莱昂纳多热浴盆里的模特还要多。“设计对我们来说是一个过程，要一步步来，”劳拉说，“从一个构思开始，接着画一幅草图，然后做出一个模型。”
Another reason might be that without the backdrop of European architecture, with its history and scale, as a starting point, the powers of imagination required to decide to live this way are simply too difficult for clients to summon. It would be hard to attempt to get Studio Peregalli-like results in an apartment at Olympic Tower.
另一个原因或许在于，欧洲的历史建筑规模较大，没有这样的大环境作为起点，客户根本就难以具备足够的想象力，来采纳这样的家居方式。我们很难在奥林匹克大厦（Olympic Tower，位于曼哈顿第五大道上的高档公寓大楼——译注）的公寓中尝试佩雷加利工作室的设计风格。
Finally, there is the modesty of the principals. Roberto and Laura are not self-promoters. They are content to wait to be discovered by clients who truly believe in what they are doing, and appreciate how much care goes into their work. Consider this: I’m standing in the studio, holding a sample of emerald green stamped velvet that is a little reminiscent of old Fortuny and appears to have significant age. They explain that it came to them as white; they dyed it green and then stamped it with the design. “If you have ideas and you have some time, you can use your brain to find ways to make fabric unique,” Roberto explains. Every component of an interior by Studio Peregalli, whether fabric, stone or wood, undergoes a similar process.
最后一个原因在于，佩雷加利工作室的领导者为人低调谦逊。罗伯托和劳拉都不是喜欢自我推销的人。他们满足于等待的过程，等待着真正赏识他们心血的客户自己找上门来。从下面这个例子中就可见一斑：我正站在佩雷加利工作室里，手中拿着一块翡翠绿的印花天鹅绒样品，它和福图尼(Fortuny)晚年的作品有几份相似，看起来年代非常久远。他们解释说，这匹布料当初到他们手里时是白色的；他们把它染成了绿色，然后将设计图样印了上去。“如果你有点子，又有时间，那就可以开动脑筋，将布料设计得独一无二，”罗伯托解释说。佩雷加利工作室设计的室内装修作品中的每个组成部分，无论是布料、石材还是木材，都经历了类似的处理过程。
It is impossible to hear about Studio Peregalli without also hearing the name Renzo Mongiardino. Both Roberto and Laura worked with the eminent decorator, who died in 1998, and their styles are closely related. Roberto was particularly close to Mongiardino, who was a family friend, and visited the master in his studio almost every day from an early age until finally going to work for him in 1986, after attaining a degree in philosophy from the University of Milan. Their style is a continuation of the illusionistic, Zeffirelli-set sensibility that earned Mongiardino the reputation of a wizard in interior design circles.
凡是听说过佩雷加利工作室的人，就不可能不知道伦佐·蒙贾尔迪诺(Renzo Mongiardino)这个名字。蒙贾尔迪诺逝世于1998年。罗伯托和劳拉都与这位声名显赫的装饰大师共事过，他们的风格也非常接近。罗伯托和蒙贾尔迪诺的关系尤为密切，作为其家族友人，罗伯托从小就几乎每天都去大师的工作室拜访，直到1986年，他从米兰大学(University of Milan)取得哲学学位后，正式加入大师麾下。他们延续了错视艺术的风格，承袭了泽菲雷利（Zeffirelli，意大利导演、制片人和舞台设计师——译注）在舞台设计中表现出的艺术嗅觉，这为蒙贾尔迪诺在室内设计圈赢得了鬼才之名。
Studio Peregalli’s admirers agree, however, that interiors by Roberto and Laura have a somewhat gentler touch than those of their mentor. A bit less tea-washed and autumnal, a bit more optimistic. Pierre Bergé, unafraid as ever to speak bluntly, gets right to it. “Their work is much more interesting than Mongiardino,” he says. “What they do is lighter. For me, Peregalli’s work is exactly like opening a book by Mario Praz.” (Him again. Did you watch the movie yet?)
不过，佩雷加利工作室的追捧者一致认为，罗伯托和劳拉的室内设计风格与其导师相比，要柔和一些，少了一丝茶染（植物染色工艺中的一种——译注）和秋天的色彩，而多了一丝乐观的气息。皮埃尔·贝尔热以其一如既往的坦率性格，一针见血地指出了这一点：“他们的作品比蒙贾尔迪诺的作品要有趣得多，”他说，“他们的风格要柔和一些。对我来说，看佩雷加利的作品就像在看马里奥·普拉兹的书。”（又提到普拉兹了，读者朋友们看过我之前推荐的电影了吗？）
When speaking in English, Roberto has a way of expressing himself that, intentionally or not, can be impressively precise. Example: Of the act of shopping for an ordinary chair, he points out, “In the 19th century, it was a little bit more difficult to find horrible things.” While I am completely copacetic with this statement, Laura is not, and the two partners begin to spar like an old married couple, talking over each other and bickering continually, if affectionately.
罗伯托说英语时，总是能把自己的观点精确地表达出来，令人叹服，不管这样做是否有意。举个例子：在谈到购买一张普通的椅子时，他指出，“在19世纪，惊世骇俗的设计比现在要难找一点。”我对这句话没什么好说的，劳拉却不满意了，两个人开始像结婚多年的夫妇一样拌起嘴来，彼此都想说服对方，就这样争论不休，只不过这样的争吵是饱含爱意的。
On this point they concur: they are not interested in historic interiors and architecture for tradition’s sake alone. Their passion is engaging in the rigorous intellectual work and creative reveries required to evoke the past. What Studio Peregalli is after is something more than the staging of objects; it is the creation of a narrative.
两人最后达成了一致：他们之所以对从前的室内设计方案和建筑感兴趣，并不只是为了追寻传统。他们所热衷的，是通过高强度的脑力劳动和天马行空的创造力来重现往昔。佩雷加利工作室所追求的不仅仅是物品的展示，还要将每一件作品创作成为一部叙事诗。
When you hear the partners explain their work, and consider the range of options available to them as designers (both have an appreciation for modernism, and Roberto in particular respects the work of John Pawson), you realize that in their hands, the invention of the past is neither a retrograde nor conservative endeavor, but a bold and fearless one, something akin to the athletic interpretation of classical ballet by Rudolf Nureyev — a Mongiardino client, by the way — or Stanley Kubrick’s take on the 18th century in “Barry Lyndon.” Those artists were operating in a radical creative mode, achieving something out of their own time by employing a vocabulary forged in years gone by.
只要听罗伯托和劳拉阐释他们的作品，同时想到，这两人在设计领域其实有广泛的施展空间可咨选择（两个人对现代主义都颇有见地，罗伯托尤其推崇约翰·帕森[John Pawson]的作品），你就会明白，他们用自己的巧手所创造出的过往，既不是逆潮流而动，也不是顽固守旧，而是一种大胆而无畏的开拓之举，这就好比鲁道夫·纽瑞耶夫（Rudolf Nureyev，俄罗斯芭蕾舞蹈家——译注）对经典芭蕾舞（顺便说一句，纽瑞耶夫也是蒙贾尔迪诺的客户之一）运动美学的阐释，又或者，我们可以将其类比为斯坦利·库布里克（Stanley Kubrick，美国电影导演——译注）在18世纪拍摄的影片《乱世儿女》（Barry Lyndon）。这些艺术家采取的是激进的创新模式，他们运用来自往昔岁月的词汇，在自己所处的时代创造新的成就。
Roberto takes care to explain the difference in sensibility between his own work and that of his mentor. “Mongiardino grew up in a palace in Genoa,” he tells me. “He met the past. We did not meet the past — what we are doing is protecting the past, like a wild panda.”
罗伯托还特地解释了一下他与导师在艺术嗅觉上的不同。“蒙贾尔迪诺从小在热那亚(Genoa)的一所豪宅中长大，”他告诉我，“他亲眼见识过往日的风格，而我们没有——我们所做的事情是保护过去，就像保护野生大熊猫一样。”
The impact of their work is felt most profoundly in Milan, the city that demands style — and judges it — more fiercely than any other. While the studio is better known for residential projects, one of its more recent (and most public) triumphs is the restaurant it designed for Giacomo Bulleri, Milan’s foremost restaurateur. Da Giacomo, Bulleri’s first restaurant, was designed by Mongiardino (with Roberto’s assistance) and has been famous for nearly 25 years. In 2009, it was joined by the Giacomo Bistrot, just around the corner and with a little more nighttime glamour. While the palette of Da Giacomo is light and creamy, finished in Eau de Nil green wainscoting and tile, Studio Peregalli’s Giacomo Bistrot is full of antique parquet floors, black lacquer and gilded millwork, and a 19th-century buffet bought at the Paris flea market and reconfigured into a bar for this space. The paneling (also acquired at a flea market, this time in Parma) used to adorn a jewelry store. The finished result appears to be a landmark interior from 1875, achingly romantic and utterly convincing, but everything in the space is new construction.
他们的作品在米兰的影响力最大，米兰这座城市注重的是风格，而且会对风格加以鉴赏——这种鉴赏风气比其它任何地方都兴盛。尽管佩雷加利工作室的住宅项目更加出名，不过该工作室最新完工（也是曝光率最高）的一个大获成功的作品，是为米兰首屈一指的餐厅老板贾科莫·布莱里(Giacomo Bulleri)设计的餐厅。布莱里的第一家餐厅Da Giacomo是由蒙贾尔迪诺设计的，至今已驰名近25年。2009年，街角又新开了一家Ciacomo Bistrot，它在夜色下的魅力更胜一筹。老店Da Giacomo主打亮色和奶油色，饰有浅青绿色的抛光壁板和瓷砖；而在佩雷加利工作室设计的新店Giacomo Bistrot中，触目可及的全是古色古香的拼花地板、黑色漆器和镀金的木工制品，吧台由一张19世纪的饮食柜台改装而来，柜台购自巴黎的跳蚤市场。镶板原本来自一家珠宝店，也是从跳蚤市场淘来的，只不过这次不在巴黎，而是在帕尔马(Parma)。完工的餐馆内景看起来就像1875年的一个划时代的室内设计作品，浪漫得令人心醉，直叫人叹为观止。但是这里的每一件事物都是全新构建出来的。
“Everyone said, ‘Are you crazy to do a restaurant like the Bistrot?’ ” Laura recalls. “But now people of the fashion world come” — to Da Giacomo and its younger sibling — “for their parties.” There’s no need to elaborate as we sit having dinner in what is clearly the hottest joint in town. A four-top of what might be the most stylish 20-somethings I have ever seen, one of whom is sporting a mohawk, is seated near us on a red velvet banquette under a wall of leather-bound books. Laura grins. “We think that real elegance is to be out of trends,” she says.
“人人都说，‘你们疯了吗？竟然去设计Bistrot这样的餐馆？’”劳拉回忆道，“但是现在，时尚界的人都会来（Da Giacomo及新开的Giacomo Bistrot）举办派对。”眼前的景象已经充分说明了这点。此时此刻，我们正在这家无疑是城内生意最红火的据点共进晚餐。几名顾客围坐在一张四人餐桌边，我还从没见过像他们这么时髦的20岁出头的年轻人。其中一名顾客正在取笑一个莫霍克人（Mohawk，易洛魁联盟中位于最东侧的北美原住民部族——译注），他坐在我们附近的一张红色天鹅绒靠墙长椅上，旁边是满墙的皮质精装书。劳拉露齿一笑，“我们认为真正的高雅，就是背离潮流，”她说。
Hamish Bowles tells a story about working with Laura and Roberto that offers a window onto their process, and the commitment they bring to every step. “I was in the Paris flea market with them and found two lamps, which I shipped to Milan to have the lampshades made,” he recalls. “When they arrived back in New York and I unpacked the crate, it happened to contain two drawings” — working sketches with measurements from Studio Peregalli — “that looked as though Piranesi had done them, rendered with watercolor. For my very humble apartment, and my very humble flea market lamps! You could have framed them.”
哈米什·鲍尔斯跟我们分享了他与劳拉和罗伯托共事的一次经历，这为我们提供了一个窗口，借此了解劳拉和罗伯托的创作过程，以及他们为每一个设计步骤所付出的心血。“当时我和他们逛了逛巴黎的跳蚤市场，我淘了两盏灯，把它们运到米兰制作灯罩，”他回忆道，“等到这两盏灯运回纽约时，我打开板条箱，发现里面还有两幅画。”那是佩雷加利工作室制作的设计草图，里面标明了尺寸规格，“看起来就像皮拉内西（Piranesi，意大利制图员、版画家、建筑师和艺术理论家——译注）的亲笔作品，上面还用水彩上了色。就我那破房子里装的那两盏跳蚤市场淘来的旧货，竟然也让他们花费了那么多的心思！这两幅画完全可以装裱起来。”
It’s hard to say what the future holds for Studio Peregalli, because unlike most decorators who become important and experience success, the usual way forward — more books, a furniture line, a signature linens collection and so on — holds no appeal for them. What they are doing is not really “scalable,” and in any case, they do not measure the value of their output in economic terms. They might in fact be the least materialistic successful decorators I have ever met. As with the painter Agnes Martin, having the world beating a path to their door has not changed their motivations or outlook one bit. “We are not businessmen, and we are not managers,” Laura explains, despite the fact that they preside over what is clearly a successful and complex operation that employs nearly 100 craftspeople. They are designers, foremost. “Somehow,” she says, “we are also dreamers.”
我们很难预言佩雷加利工作室的未来。对于大多数功成名就的装潢师来说，通常的发展道路就是拿到更多订单，推出一个家居系列，发布一组具有代表作性质的床上用品等等，但是这些对罗伯托和劳拉都没有吸引力。他们所做的事情并不算是能够“量化”的类型。在任何情况下，他们都不会以物质的角度来衡量其作品价值。事实上，在我见过的室内装饰设计师当中，他们或许是最没有物欲的了。就像画家艾格尼丝·马丁(Agnes Martin)一样，虽然前来拜访的人络绎不绝，但他们的理想和志趣并没有分毫改变。“我们不是商人，也不是管理者，”劳拉表示，尽管他们领导着一个显然非常成功的工作室，经营着复杂的业务，雇佣了将近一百名手工艺人。对于罗伯托和劳拉而言，他们最主要的定位是设计师。“从某种程度上讲，”劳拉说，“我们也是追梦人。”