A dozen different European destinations, including Macedonia and the Faroe Islands, made our list of 52 Places to Go in 2015. And since the list was published in January, a few of them have enjoyed the opening of cultural centers and exhibitions. Milan, which topped our list, is gearing up for one large event beginning in May. Here’s a rundown of highlights this spring.
欧洲的十几个目的地入选我们的“2015年52个必去之地”榜单，包括马其顿(Macedonia)和法罗群岛(Faroe Islands)。这个榜单是今年1月发布的，其中几座城市出现了新的文化中心和展览。米兰排在名单榜首，它正在积极筹备将于5月份开始的一项盛大活动。下面是今年春天一些亮点活动的简介。
Milan
米兰
Is Milan ready for the 2015 World Expo? The six-month event, including 60 pavilions sponsored by more than 130 nations and organizations, begins May 1, even if, as Reuters reported, the centerpiece was a mass of trucks as of mid-April.
米兰为2015年世界博览会做好准备了吗？这个为期六个月的活动将于5月1日开始，包括130多个国家和组织筹备的60个展馆。不过路透社报道说，截至4月中旬，中心场地仍堆满卡车。
With a theme focused on food and sustainable practices, the Expo will include interactive exhibitions like the Future Food District, a space to explore technological advances affecting the global food chain, and the Lake Arena, a mirrorlike pond and fountain fed by water from the city’s canals. Giving a taste of various national cuisines, dozens of pavilions will also be hosted by restaurants, including the upmarket delicatessen chain Eataly (as well as Coca-Cola and McDonald’s, fueling criticism that the theme of “sustainability” is cloaking the interests of conglomerates).
这次世博会重点关注食物和可持续发展，所以将包括一些交互式展览，比如未来食物区(Future Food District)和湖区(Lake Arena)。未来食物区将用于探索影响全球食物链的科技进步；湖区是一个镜子般的池塘，池水来自该市运河。除了展示各国美食，这几十个场馆还将进驻餐馆，包括高档熟食连锁店Eataly（以及可口可乐和麦当劳，因此有些人批评说，“可持续”主题只是大企业集团牟利的幌子）。
The event is expected to attract 20 million visitors.
预计，2015年世博会将吸引2000万游客。
Even with construction delays, the Expo’s commissioner, Giuseppe Sala, told reporters in Milan this month that he remained confident construction would be completed in time. After all, he said, “When has it ever been the case for a project like an Expo or Olympic Games, that all the building work has been finished 30 days before the opening?”
尽管工程延期，但是米兰世博会理事朱塞佩·萨拉(Giuseppe Sala)本月在米兰对记者说，他仍相信工程会及时完工。他说，毕竟“像世博会或奥运会这样的项目，从来都没有开幕前30天完成所有施工的情况”。
There is still plenty to do in Milan beyond the Expo. Old structures of various stripes, including a sawmill, a foundry, a bank and a farmhouse, have recently been repurposed as bars, shops, restaurants and cultural centers. Not least of all: the majestic Duomo, whose gleaming facade has been restored.
除了世博会，米兰还有很多可看的。最近，各种老建筑——包括锯木厂、铸造厂、银行和农舍——被改造成酒吧、商店、餐馆和文化中心。尤其是那座宏伟的大教堂，它光彩照人的门面也被修复。
Paris
巴黎
No. 42 on our list, the Île-de-France — the district that encompasses the city and its outskirts — received a boost in January with the opening of the Philharmonie de Paris, the 2,400-seat concert hall designed by Jean Nouvel. The $455 million birdlike aluminum structure, nestled amid the Parc de la Villette in the 19th Arrondissement, borders the ring road that separates Paris’s arrondissements from its working-class, poorer suburbs, or banlieues. Its location was part of an effort to draw new audiences to classical music, including younger people and suburban families.
法兰西岛包括巴黎市及周边地区，排在我们榜单上第42位。今年1月，新开幕的巴黎爱乐音乐厅(Philharmonie de Paris)给这里增添了活力。该音乐厅由让·努韦尔(Jean Nouvel)设计，有2400个座位。这个外形似大鸟的铝结构投资额为4.55亿美元，坐落在第19区的维莱特公园里，毗邻环路——环路是巴黎市区与工薪阶层居住的较穷郊区的分界线。选择此地的其中一个目的是吸引新观众关注古典音乐，包括年轻人和郊区家庭。
“The goal of outreach was definitely realized,” The New York Times music critic Anthony Tommasini wrote about the inaugural concerts and classes in January that attracted thousands of people, including parents pushing baby strollers. The spring’s program is a hybrid of classic and contemporary music, with an exhibition on David Bowie, through May 31, alongside a series of concerts and workshops on the composer Pierre Boulez. In addition to performances by the resident orchestra, the Orchestre de Paris, the hall will welcome touring companies like the London Symphony Orchestra on April 20 and the artist Laurie Anderson and the Kronos Quartet on April 25 and 26.
“扩大观众群的目标无疑实现了，”《纽约时报》的音乐评论家安东尼·托马西尼(Anthony Tommasini)谈及巴黎爱乐音乐厅1月份的开幕音乐会和课程时写道。那些音乐会吸引了数千名观众，包括推着婴儿车的父母。春季的音乐会安排包括古典和当代音乐，还有关于大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)的展览（持续至5月31日），以及关于作曲家皮埃尔·布莱(Pierre Boulez)的一系列音乐会和讲习班。除了常驻的巴黎交响乐团(Orchestre de Paris)的表演之外，该音乐厅还将迎来巡演剧团的表演，例如4月20日伦敦交响乐团(London Symphony Orchestra)的表演，以及4月25日至26日艺术家劳丽·安德森(Laurie Anderson)和克罗诺斯四重奏乐团(Kronos Quartet)的表演。
Manchester, England
英国曼彻斯特
Cultural openings continue in this industrial, artsy city, No. 26 on our list. After a £15 million (about $22 million) renovation and expansion, the Whitworth reopened in February with two new wings, an art garden and a sculpture terrace. Through May 31, a retrospective of the English artist Cornelia Parker’s work is on display, and one on the Chinese artist Cai Guo-Qiang continues through June 21 in the new landscape gallery. Opening on May 21 is the £25 million film center and theater HOME, which also includes gallery spaces, digital production and broadcast facilities, a bar and a bookshop. On its calendar are ambitious new productions like the play “The Funfair” and the exhibition “The heart is deceitful above all things,” both drawing inspiration from the Hungarian playwright Odon von Horvath’s “Kasimir and Karoline.”
曼彻斯特排在我们榜单的第26位。这个充满艺术气息的工业城市不断举办各种文化活动。惠特沃思艺术博物馆(Whitworth)花费1500万英镑（约合2200万美元）进行修复和扩展，增加了新的两翼，一个是艺术花园，一个是雕塑露台，于2月份重新开放。英国艺术家(Cornelia Parker)的作品回顾展正在进行，将持续至5月31日；中国艺术家蔡国强的作品正在新的景观展厅展出，将持续至6月21日。投资2500万英镑建造的电影中心兼剧院HOME将于5月21日开放，它还包括美术展厅、数字制作和广播设施、酒吧和书店。HOME的近期计划包括雄心勃勃的新排剧目《The Funfair》以及“人心最大的特点是虚伪”展(The heart is deceitful above all things)，两者都以匈牙利剧作家厄登·冯·霍尔瓦特(Odon von Horvath)的《卡西米尔和卡罗琳》(Kasimir and Karoline)为灵感。