At last week’s Milan Furniture Fair, you couldn’t turn around without bumping into a project by a heavy hitter like Patricia Urquiola, Scholten & Baijings, Barber Osgerby, Konstantin Grcic or the Bouroullec brothers. With many design manufacturers still struggling five years after the financial crisis, it’s little wonder that they are relying more than ever on star power. But even so, the rise of blogs, e-commerce and limited-edition design has made it easier than ever for young, independent talents to flourish, and they are producing and exhibiting their own work without having to wait around for big brands to show interest. There was no shortage of up-and-comers in Milan last week if you knew where to look, from the halls of Rossana Orlandi’s gallery to the Lambrate district to the Satellite section of the Salone itself. Here are three of this year’s standouts.
在上周的米兰家具展中，只要一转身，你肯定会遇到某件设计作品，是出自诸如帕特丽夏·乌古拉(Patricia Urquiola)、Scholten & Baijings（一个荷兰设计团队——译注）、巴博·奥斯格比(Barber Osgerby)、康斯坦丁·格里克(Konstantin Grcic)，或布卢莱克兄弟(Bouroullec brothers)这样的大设计师之手。虽然金融危机已过去五年，但许多设计厂商仍在苦苦挣扎。所以，他们比以往任何时候都更加依赖明星设计师的力量，就没什么好奇怪的了。不过即便如此，随着博客、电子商务和限量版设计品的崛起，当今的设计界已经比以往任何时候都更容易让从事独立设计的青年才俊们展现才华了。他们不断制造并展示着自己的作品，不必再等候一些大品牌的青睐。上个星期，从罗撒纳·奥兰迪(Rossana Orlandi)画廊的大厅，到兰布拉特区(Lambrate district)，再到此次家具展的卫星场馆，只要你知道往哪儿走，就不愁在米兰看不到许多这样的后起之秀。以下就是今年格外出众的三位。
Ferréol Babin
弗雷奥尔·巴宾(Ferréol Babin)
The work of the French furniture designer Ferréol Babin could be seen in no fewer than seven places last week. While some of the appearances were more subtle — Babin’s day job is with the Italian think tank and design studio Fabrica, and he pitched in on both of its exhibitions this year — others marked him as one to watch. His colorful iridescent lamp for the French brand Moustache was endlessly photographed at Spazio Rossana Orlandi, and he was one of a handful of young designers tapped to customize pieces from Philippe Starck’s new line of 3-D printable furniture, Tog. There was also the striking series of Memphis-inspired, hand-painted shelves and mirrors Babin debuted in the Ventura Lambrate district and the eclipse-inspired lamp he designed last year for FontanaArte, which has since won a Red Dot award, shown again in new colorways. Babin says much of his work revolves around one central question: “How can an object produce a strong effect, an impressive impact, and then turn into a quiet and nonintrusive object when we want it to? That’s why light is my favorite ‘material,’ because it has this power to change a whole room in a second.”
上周，你可以在不下七处地方，见到法国家具设计师弗雷奥尔·巴宾(Ferréol Babin)的作品。尽管他的一些设计并不起眼——巴宾的主要工作是与意大利智囊团和Fabrica设计室合作，他对该设计室今年举办的两场展示都有贡献——而另一些作品却表明，他的确是位值得关注的人物。他为法国品牌Moustache设计的一件作品——色彩斑斓的彩虹灯，在斯派若·罗撒纳·奥兰迪(Spazio Rossana Orlandi)展馆中不停被拍照；他还是菲利普·斯塔克(Philippe Starck)公司新上线的3-D打印家具品牌Tog定制家具所选用的十多位年轻设计师之一。巴宾还在范图拉·兰布拉特区(Ventura Lambrate district)首次展出了一系列手工上漆的置物架和镜子等以孟斐斯（Memphis，古埃及城市，废墟在今开罗以南——译注）为灵感的惊人作品，以及他去年为FontanaArte设计的一盏以月食为灵感的月影壁灯。这盏灯在去年展出后获得了红点设计大奖(Red Dot award)，此次又以新的色彩设计再度展出。巴宾说，他的大部分作品都围绕着一个中心问题在旋转：“怎样让一件物品具有强大的影响力与冲击力，但在我们需要的时候，又能变成一件悄无声息、没有干扰的东西呢？所以，灯光是我最喜欢的设计‘材料’，因为光线有瞬间改变整个房间的力量。”
Vera & Kyte
Vera & Kyte工作室
The Salone del Mobile show at the fairgrounds includes a special Satellite section meant to showcase the work of emerging designers — it’s where producers and curators troll for new discoveries — and this edition was the best in years. The young Norway studio Vera & Kyte (a.k.a. Vera Kleppe and Ashild Kyte) debuted there with a collection full of strong, graphic pieces that touched on some of the design world’s most prominent recent trends: thin lines, geometry, perforated metal and marble. The last material lined the designers’ booth and the tops of a trio of small side tables. Their two showstoppers included a black daybed hovering on a thin, wire frame and a bright-blue room divider punctuated by a large circular mirror. The designers say their pared-down aesthetic is influenced by the Norwegian landscape, but that with the pieces they showed in Milan, “the aim was to create a stylistic atmosphere referencing French botanical gardens and scenes from Jacques Tati’s ‘Mon Oncle.’ ” It wouldn’t be surprising to see Vera & Kyte pop up in future collections by brands like Hay or Moroso.
这次在露天广场举办的家具展(The Salone del Mobile)还辟出一个卫星场馆，旨在展示新兴设计师的作品——也是制造商与策展人为寻找新发现而逡巡的地方——而今年卫星场馆中的设计品，是历年来最好的。年轻的挪威设计工作室Vera & Kyte（全称Vera Kleppe and Ashild Kyte）在卫星馆中首次亮相，带来一批强大的、触及到设计领域当前最尖端潮流的几何线型作品：细细的线条，几何型结构，还有网眼排列的金属与大理石的运用。大理石还被铺设于该设计商的展台，并用作那个三件一组的小边桌的台面。他们有两件引人驻足的作品，一个是一张黑色的坐卧两用长椅，架在一副钢丝骨架上；还有一个亮蓝色的空间分隔网架，上面点缀着一面巨大的圆镜子。设计者们说，他们这种简约的审美受到了挪威风景的影响，但他们带来这几件在米兰展出的作品，“目的在于创造一种氛围，类似法国植物园和雅克·塔蒂(Jacques Tati)的电影《我的舅舅》(Mon Oncle)里那种风格。”所以，将来若在Hay或Moroso这类品牌旗下见到Vera & Kyte的作品，人们也不会觉得惊讶吧。
David/Nicolas
David/Nicolas组合
While the up-and-coming Beirut-based duo of David Raffoul and Nicolas Moussallem were in good company at this year’s Wallpaper Handmade exhibition — where their elaborate leather-lined jewelry safe, made in collaboration with Agresti, was surrounded by the work of other new names like Jason Rens and Daniel Emma — their bigger coup was scoring a prime spot at Nina Yashar’s influential Nilufar Gallery alongside more established talents such as Lindsey Adelman and Bethan Laura Wood. Their installation there served as a coming-out party for the designers, who filled a room with a series of chairs that paired black tubular frames and sleek copper accents with soft curves and jewel-toned upholstery. The mix of materials, they explain, was intended to feel simultaneously vintage and contemporary: “This is our way of referring to our culture — as you may know, we come from Lebanon, a country with a lot of different backgrounds, religions and beliefs, and in one way or another we connect to this mix, and it is visible in most of our work.” It’s fitting, then, that their next big move will happen on their home turf, with a solo show this December at the Art Factum Gallery in Beirut.
虽然刚刚崭露头角的、来自贝鲁特的双人组合David Raffoul and Nicolas Moussallem在今年的手工壁纸展(Wallpaper Handmade exhibition)中被琳琅满目的参展品包围——他们与Agresti合作设计的、精巧的皮内衬珠宝保险箱，淹没在诸如杰森·瑞恩斯(Jason Rens)和丹尼尔·艾玛(Daniel Emma)等一些新人作品之中——但他们拔得头筹之处，是在尼娜·亚沙尔(Nina Yashar)那间非常有影响力的Nilufar画廊中获得了一处显要位置，并与众多像林赛·阿德尔曼(Lindsey Adelman)和贝森·劳拉·伍德(Bethan Laura Wood)这样更有建树的设计天才们同台竞技。他们在那里的陈设，就像是为这些设计师初次登场所举办的派对，他们在房间里摆了一系列椅子，具有成对的黑管框架，高高升起的光滑铜靠背，并有着柔和的曲线与宝石色的装饰面料。他们解释说，这种将材料混搭的做法，是为了同时体现出一流的品质与现代的设计：“这是我们引用自身文化的方式——正如你所知，我们来自黎巴嫩(Lebanon)这个有着大量迥异文化背景与宗教信仰的国家，因此，以这样或那样的方式，我们结合了这种混搭的风格，而这种风格在我们大部分作品中都可以看到。”那么，他们下一步回归故土、于今年12月在贝鲁特的Art Factum画廊举办个展的行动，似乎就再合适不过了。