Michelle Obama, the American first lady, will travel to China this month for a visit that will focus on “the power and importance of education” and include a meeting with Peng Liyuan, the wife of President Xi Jinping of China, the White House has said.
白宫称，美国第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)将于本月访华，她的这次访问将主要关注“教育的力量和重要性”的问题，她还将与中国国家主席习近平的夫人彭丽媛会面。
Ms. Peng is China’s most visible first lady in decades. As a popular folk singer, she was better known than her husband for many years before he began ascending the top ranks of the Chinese leadership. The meeting of the two women is expected to be a high-profile, and popular, public diplomacy event in China.
彭丽媛是中国数十年来最令人瞩目的第一夫人。她曾是一位流行歌手，在自己的丈夫开始步入中国领导高层之前的很多年里，她比丈夫更有名。两位第一夫人这次会面预计将会成为中国一场高调和受欢迎的公共外交活动。
When Mr. Xi and President Obama met for informal talks in California last year, Ms. Peng accompanied her husband, but Mrs. Obama remained in Washington. Her office said then that she planned to be with her two daughters, Malia and Sasha, as they finished their school year that week.
去年习近平和奥巴马在加州进行非正式会晤时，彭丽媛曾陪同丈夫前往，但米歇尔·奥巴马留在了华盛顿。她的办公室当时说，她原已定下了与两个女儿马莉娅(Malia)和萨莎(Sasha)在一起的计划，因为那周是她们学年的最后一周。
During the March 19-26 trip, which will take her to Beijing, Xi’an and Chengdu, Mrs. Obama plans to visit a high school and university in Beijing, plus another school in Chengdu, the White House said in a statement released on Monday. She will be accompanied by her daughters, who will be on a spring break from Sidwell Friends School, and her mother, Marion Robinson.
白宫在周一发布的一项声明中说，奥巴马夫人将从3月19日至26日访问北京、西安和成都，她计划访问北京的一所高中和一所大学，以及成都的一所学校。她的两个女儿以及她的母亲玛丽昂·鲁滨逊(Marion Robinson)将与其同行，她女儿的学校西德威尔友谊中学(Sidwell Friends School)正好放春假。
President Obama will also travel to Asia in coming weeks, but not to China. He will visit Japan, South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines in April and plans to address security and economic issues, the White House announced last month.
白宫在上月曾宣布，奥巴马总统也将在几周后访问亚洲，但不包括中国。他计划在4月份访问日本、韩国、马来西亚和菲律宾，讨论安全和经济问题。
As a prelude to her trip, her first to China, Mrs. Obama is visiting the Yu Ying Public Charter School, a Chinese-immersion school in Washington, on Tuesday. The first lady will be posting a daily blog from China and is encouraging students at Yu Ying and across the United States to follow her travels online.
作为访华的序幕，米歇尔·奥巴马周二去了位于华盛顿的汉语浸入式学校育英公立特许学校(Yu Ying Public Charter School)。她将在访华期间每天在博客上发日志，她鼓励育英学校和全美的学生在线关注她的旅行。
Many challenges, such as poverty and climate change, are of a global nature, Mrs. Obama wrote in the first entry on her China trip. “These issues affect every last one of us, so it’s critically important that young people like you learn about what’s going on not just here in America, but around the world.”
米歇尔·奥巴马在有关访华的首篇日志中写道，很多问题，比如贫困、环境变化都具有全球性。“这些问题影响着我们每一个人，因此，你们这样的年轻人不仅要了解美国发生的事情，还要了解世界上发生的事情，这是至关重要的。”
Last year, Mr. Obama began an initiative that seeks to increase the number of low-income students who pursue higher education. “No matter what path you choose, no matter what dreams you have, you have got to do whatever it takes to continue your education after high school,” she told high school students in Washington in November.
去年，奥巴马开始启动了一个项目，寻求提高来自低收入家庭学生上大学的人数。米歇尔·奥巴马在去年11月对华盛顿的高中生说，“无论你们选择怎样的道路，无论你们有什么样的梦想，你们都要在高中毕业后尽一切可能继续学业。”
Her message about the importance of education is likely to be well received in China, where many parents place enormous emphasis on their children’s schooling.
米歇尔·奥巴马关于教育重要性的信息在中国受到好评的可能性很大，因为中国家长极其重视子女的教育。
Aside from educational institutions, Mrs. Obama is also slated to visit unspecified “historical and cultural” sites, the White House statement said.
白宫的声明称，除了访问教育机构之外，米歇尔·奥巴马还计划访问一些没有明确列出的“历史文化”景点。