Michelle Obama, on the first day of a good-will tour to China with her daughters and her mother, tried her hand on Friday at three quintessentially Chinese specialties: calligraphy, table tennis and mathematics.
周五，在米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)携女儿和母亲对中国进行友好访问的第一天，她试着做了三件具有典型中国特色的事情：书法、乒乓球和数学。
Her hostess was Peng Liyuan, the wife of President Xi Jinping and a glamorous, nationally known singing star.
陪同她的是彭丽媛，彭丽媛是国家主席习近平的妻子，也是一位富有魅力的、全国知名的歌手。
The meeting was expected to be a show of spontaneity and broad smiles, the bonding of two women with big personalities who rose from humble backgrounds and who would have much in common, as they toured a high school and visited the Forbidden City in the heart of Beijing.
人们对这次会面的预期是：自然的表现和很多的笑脸，以及看到这两位极具个性的女子，在参观一所北京中学和位于城中心的故宫的过程中表现出的情谊，她们都出身平凡，也会有许多共同之处。
In a class on calligraphy at The Second High School Attached to Beijing Normal University, a prestigious state-run secondary school, Mrs. Obama, brush in hand and paper in front of her, tried to write the Chinese character for the word eternity. “Push harder,” urged Liu Yijie, a student, as she tentatively drew the eight strokes.
在著名的公立中学北师大二附中，米歇尔·奥巴马手握毛笔，在平放在她前面的纸上，试着写“永”这个汉字。当她小心翼翼地描着这个字的八个笔画时，学生刘易杰（音译）鼓励她说，“用点力。”
Ms. Peng, in one of the few phrases she used in English, said: “I’ll give it a try,” and wrote a four-character Chinese saying, “Only people of great virtue are suited to undertake great things.” As she wrote, she conceded in Chinese: “I’m pretty nervous, too.” Then she presented her work to Mrs. Obama.
彭丽媛用英语说，“我来试试，”这是她为数不多的一次用英语说话，她写下了“厚德载物”这四个字。她一边写一边用汉语承认，“我也很紧张。”然后，她将自己写的字送给了米歇尔·奥巴马。
The two women admired robots that the students had built using elements of mathematics, science, engineering and art.
彭丽媛和米歇尔·奥巴马一起欣赏了学生制作的机器人，这需要用到数学、科学、工程以及艺术的知识。
In the table tennis class, Mrs. Obama shed the vest of her casual pantsuit, and took paddle in hand. After a few strokes, she got the hang of it, hit some volleys, and wrapped her game to applause. “My husband plays. He thinks he’s better than he really is,” she said.
在乒乓球课上，米歇尔·奥巴马脱掉了与她的休闲长裤套装搭配的背心，拿起了乒乓球板。打了几板之后，她掌握了窍门，接住了几个球，最后在掌声中结束了这场球。她说，“我丈夫打乒乓球。他的自我感觉比他的实际水平要好。”
The high school was chosen for Mrs. Obama’s visit because it emphasizes the value of education abroad: 30 American students are studying there under a program called School Year Abroad this year, and many of the Chinese students are expected to go to college in the United States. The American students pay $50,000 a year with students enrolled this year from elite East Coast schools, including Choate in Connecticut and Sidwell Friends in Washington, which the Obama daughters, Malia and Sasha, attend.
这所中学被选为米歇尔·奥巴马访问的对象是因为这里重视海外教育：有30个美国学生今年在该校学习，他们参加一个名为“海外学年”(School Year Abroad)的项目；这所学校的很多中国学生也会去美国上大学。美国的这个项目一年的费用是5万美元（约合30万元人民币），今年参加项目的学生来自美国东海岸的精英学校，包括康涅狄格州的乔特中学(Choate)，以及首都华盛顿的西德威尔友谊中学(Sidwell Friends School)，奥巴马的女儿马莉娅(Malia)和萨莎(Sasha)就在该校就读。
Mrs. Obama, her daughters and mother, Marian Robinson, were given a special tour of the Forbidden City with Ms. Peng that was brisk — less than an hour — and devoid of Chinese tourists in the areas where they walked. On a normal day, 30,000 tourists mill through the vast courtyards but the crowds were pared down to 5,000, a Chinese official said.
米歇尔·奥巴马、她的两个女儿以及她的母亲玛丽昂·鲁滨逊(Marion Robinson)在彭丽媛的陪同下，在故宫进行了特别参观，不过时间很紧凑，不到一小时，他们所到之处没有中国游客。一位中国官员说，正常情况下，故宫巨大的庭院中每天充满3万游客，但这天的游客数量被限制在5000人。
By Friday evening, Ms. Peng, in a svelte black contemporary version of the traditional Chinese dress with ultra high-heeled toeless pumps, came into her own, hosting a private dinner and a performance at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse for the Obama family.
到了周五晚上，彭丽媛已经换上了合身的黑色礼服，那是一件基于中国传统服装设计的现代服装，脚下穿着黑色超高跟开口鞋，她将独当一面，在钓鱼台国宾馆做东一个私人晚宴，来招待米歇尔·奥巴马一行，饭后还有表演。
President Xi accompanied Ms. Peng to meet Mrs. Obama at the guesthouse, although he did not stay for dinner. He greeted her warmly, saying, “It’s such a great pleasure to see you in person today.” And he complimented the choice of the new American ambassador, Max Baucus, the former Democratic Senator from Montana, who was also present, calling him a “heavyweight ambassador” who would “inject new impetus” to the US China relationship.
国家主席习近平陪同彭丽媛在钓鱼台宾馆与米歇尔·奥巴马见了面，但没有留下来一起进餐。他热情地向米歇尔·奥巴马表示欢迎，他说，“今天能见到你本人，我很高兴。”他还称赞了选择马克斯·鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)担任新的美国驻华大使，鲍卡斯也在场，他曾是蒙大拿州民主党参议员，习近平称鲍卡斯为一位“重量级大使”，并说他将为中美关系“注入新的活力”。
While the Obama clan presented a three-generation family tableau Friday – two daughters, a mother and a grandmother all under one roof, a highly admired living arrangement in China.
奥巴马一家周五展示了一个三代同堂的画面：两个女儿、一位母亲、以及一位祖母同在一个屋顶下，这是中国人非常喜欢的家庭组合。