As images of President Obama and the first lady, Michelle Obama, with the new Saudi leader, King Salman, circulated online after their brief visit to Riyadh on Tuesday, commentators, observers watching from afar, seized on the fact that Mrs. Obama had not covered her hair during the audience with the new monarch.
美国总统奥巴马和第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)周二短暂访问利雅得后，总统夫妇和沙特新国王萨尔曼(Salman)一同露面的照片在网络广泛流传，远远旁观的评论人士和观察人士立即抓住奥巴马夫人在与新国王的正式会面时未遮盖头发的事情做起文章。
Reports that some Saudi bloggers had expressed anger at the first lady’s supposed show of defiance — in refusing to honor the Saudi custom that compels women in the conservative kingdom to wear headscarves or full-body cloaks — were followed by a chorus of online praise for Mrs. Obama. They were joined even by one of the president’s most avid critics, Senator Ted Cruz, the Texas Republican who perhaps hopes to succeed him.
据报，一些沙特博主对第一夫人看起来像是挑衅的举动表示愤怒，她拒绝遵从强迫妇女戴头巾或罩住全身的沙特传统。接着，网络上又出现了对奥巴马夫人的齐声赞扬。甚至总统最狂热的批评人士之一，可能参与总统宝座角逐的德克萨斯州共和党参议员泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)也参与其中。
However, as a number of journalists better informed about diplomatic protocol in the kingdom tried to explain, female visitors, including previous first ladies and senior officials from the United States and the leaders of other nations, have met Saudi royals, including kings, for years without covering their hair.
然而，正如一些熟悉沙特王国外交礼仪的记者试图解释的那样，多年来，包括美国前几任第一夫人和高级官员，以及其他国家的领导人在内的女性访客们，在与国王等沙特王室成员会面时并未遮盖头发。
News photographs showed that other female members in the American delegation — including the former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader — also met the king without headscarves.
新闻图片显示，美国代表团的其他女性成员——包括前国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)和来自加州的众议院少数党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)——在与国王会面时也未佩戴头巾。
Archival photographs of other prominent women visiting members of the royal family in years past illustrated that this was nothing new.
过去与王室成员会面的其他女性名人的资料照片也显示，不戴头巾并不新鲜。
Ahmed Al Omran, a Saudi journalist and blogger alert to the dangers of Internet-sourced reporting, tried to correct the flow of false information on Twitter. Given that there are millions of Saudi Twitter users, he noted, reports citing just 1,500 complaints about Mrs. Obama’s attire this week could hardly be used as evidence of a broad-based backlash.
沙特记者、博主艾哈迈德·奥姆兰(Ahmed Al Omran)警惕于来自网络的新闻报道的危险性，试图更正Twitter上流传的错误信息。他指出，沙特有几百万Twitter用户，报道仅引用1500条关于奥巴马夫人本周着装的抱怨，不足以被用作广泛反对情绪的证据。
A look at the new king’s popular Twitter account showed that, although he is accustomed to meeting Saudi women who cloak their hair, he is also quite used to meeting female Western officials with uncovered hair — like Anne Patterson, the United States assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
新国王大受欢迎的Twitter账户表明，虽然他习惯了接见遮住头发的沙特妇女，他也可以接受与不遮盖头发的女性西方官员会面——例如美国负责近东事务的助理国务卿安妮·帕特森(Anne Patterson)和德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)。