CHICAGO — She looked around and saw herself three decades ago, young and uncertain, from a part of town where success is a struggle, not a birthright. She knew what they had been through, what it was like to take the long way home to avoid gangs, what it was like when the family strained to make ends meet.
芝加哥──她环顾四周，看到的是30年前的自己，年轻而茫然，在他们成长的社区，成功要靠自己的打拼，而不是与生俱来的。她知道绕远路回家避免遇上帮派流氓是什么滋味，知道家里要维持生计是何等艰难。
For Michelle Obama on Tuesday night, addressing a graduating high school class from the South Side near where she grew up summoned memories and offered a chance to draw lessons from her own upbringing: Never be afraid to ask for help, she told them. Instead of being discouraged by hardship, reach higher.
米歇尔‧奥巴马(Michelle Obama)周二晚间在一所高中的毕业典礼上发表演讲，高中所处的芝加哥南区正是她成长的地方，这唤起了她的回忆。她也分享了个人成长的经验：她说不要忌讳寻求帮助。不要在艰难面前气馁，要追求更高的目标。
At a time of roiling debate over the issues of race and opportunity, punctuated by the events of Ferguson, Mo.; Staten Island; and Baltimore, the nation’s first African-American first lady has added her voice. It is not a new message for her, but one that has taken on special resonance and one delivered with bracing candor in recent speeches. Along the way, Mrs. Obama has opened a window into her own life, not just in Chicago but also in the White House.
伴随着密苏里州弗格森、斯塔滕岛、巴尔的摩的事件，针对种族与机运等议题的辩论正胶着，美国首位非裔第一夫人也加入了进来。这不是她第一次发布这样的信息，但在最近的演说中，唯独这一次显露了特别的感同身受，以及令人为之一振的真诚。随着演讲的进行，米歇尔向众人袒露了自己的生活，不只是在芝加哥的那段时光，也包括在白宫。
By her telling, even living at the world’s most prominent address has not erased the sting of racial misunderstanding. In recent weeks, Mrs. Obama has talked of “insults and slights” directed at her husband and caricatures that have pained her. It all “used to really get to me,” she said, adding that she “had a lot of sleepless nights” until learning to ignore it. But she said she realized that she and her husband had a responsibility to rewrite the narrative for African-Americans.
据她所说，即便住在世界上最著名的住所，也难以拔除种族误解的尖刺。最近几周，米歇尔谈及那些对她丈夫发出的“侮辱与蔑视”，以及令她痛苦不堪的漫画。她说它们曾经“深深伤害了她”，并说自己在学会忽略它们以前，“度过了许多难以入眠的夜晚。”但她说她了解到，自己与丈夫都有责任改写关于非裔美国人的叙事。
“That’s a burden that President Obama and I proudly carry every single day in the White House,” she told the graduating seniors of King College Prep High School on Tuesday, “because we know that everything we do and say can either confirm the myths about folks like us — or it can change those myths.”
“在白宫的每一天，奥巴马总统与我都骄傲地背负着这个责任，”她在周二向马丁‧路德‧金预备高中(King College Prep High School)的高年级毕业生说道。“因为我们知道，我们的言行可能会证实那些关于我们的谬说──也可能会改变它们。”
She uses her own story to try to inspire young men and women, especially African-Americans, as she did last month in another commencement address, at Tuskegee University, the historically black college where she described her searing introduction to the national stage.
她用自己的经历作为例子，想要启发这些年轻男女，尤其是非裔美国人。上个月她在有黑人传统的塔斯基吉大学(Tuskegee University)发表毕业演说，慷慨激昂地介绍她登上国家舞台的心境。
“As potentially the first African-American first lady, I was also the focus of another set of questions and speculations, conversations sometimes rooted in the fears and misperceptions of others,” she said. “Was I too loud or too angry or too emasculating? Or was I too soft, too much of a mom, not enough of a career woman?”
“在我可能成为第一个非裔第一夫人时，我也成为一系列问题，以及引发的推测与谈话的焦点。这些东西有时是出于对他人的恐惧与错误观念，”她说。“我是否太过高傲、愤怒或是无力？或者我太软了，太像个妈，不够像职业女性？”
It is a role Mrs. Obama did not covet. By most accounts, she felt burned and misunderstood during her husband’s first presidential campaign, where her words were scrutinized as never before and she worried she hurt his prospects. Once in the White House, she struggled to define a role with no playbook. She steered a cautious course, casting herself as “mom in chief” to her two daughters while choosing issues like fighting childhood obesity and supporting veterans.
米歇尔先前并不冀求这个角色。在丈夫首度竞选总统时，她多数时候感到焦头烂额，被人误解。她的发言被人拿放大镜检视到前所未有的地步，让她担心这伤害到丈夫的前途。奥巴马入主白宫以后，她则费力定义自己这个没有脚本的角色。她步步为营，对两个女儿扮演“第一妈妈”的角色，也在对抗儿童肥胖、支持退役军人等议题上发挥自己的作用。
In private conversations with acquaintances, she has given the impression of not especially enjoying the klieg-light life in the White House even as she is criticized periodically for foreign trips, like the one she will take this month to England and Italy with her mother and daughters for a mix of official events and sightseeing, partly subsidized by taxpayers as other first ladies’ trips have been.
私下里与认识的人交谈时，她给人的感觉是，她不太喜欢处在聚光灯下的白宫生活，尽管她会因为时不时出国而遭到批评，比如她本月就将携母亲和女儿前往英格兰和意大利，既是为了参加官方的活动，也是为了观光。和其他第一夫人的出行一样，她这一次也是部分由纳税人资助。
But Mrs. Obama is popular with the public, with favorable ratings consistently from 60 percent to 70 percent, and she seems willing to address issues she has been thinking about in a more expansive way.
但米歇尔颇受民众喜欢，支持率始终保持在60%到70%之间，而且她似乎愿意谈论一些自己一直在以一种更广阔的方式思考的问题。
“She has found her voice in talking particularly about inequality and the lack of fairness in society, and she has returned to a role that has been important to her since she was a young woman, as a mentor,” said Peter Slevin, the author of “Michelle Obama: A Life,” a new biography. “She clearly feels more confident in talking about these issues and more liberated in talking about these issues.”
“她尤其在贫富差距和社会公正缺失等问题上发出了自己的声音，而且她回归到了一个自己在年轻时曾十分依仗的角色，一个导师，”新出版的传记《米歇尔·奥巴马：一种生活》(Michelle Obama: A Life)的作者彼得·斯莱文(Peter Slevin)说。“谈论这些问题时她明显感觉更加自信，更加无拘无束。”
Marcia Chatelain, a Georgetown University professor and author of “South Side Girls,” a new book on black girls growing up in Chicago, said Mrs. Obama “learned the hard way” to measure her words. “I’m sure she always felt she was navigating a minefield,” she said. “So now that they’re heading on the way out of the White House, she’s opening up about what those early days were like for her.”
乔治城大学(Georgetown University)教授、介绍在芝加哥长大的黑人女孩的新书《南区姑娘》(South Side Girls)的作者马西娅·查特拉因(Marcia Chatelain)表示，米歇尔“从惨痛的教训中学会了”字斟句酌。“我肯定她总感觉自己在穿越雷区，”她说。“现在他们快要离开白宫了，她就开始谈起早年的那段时光来。”
Valerie Jarrett, her close friend as well as a senior adviser to the president, said Mrs. Obama had always considered her role an “awesome honor,” but not one without challenges, and she has used recent commencement addresses to share that experience.
既是米歇尔的密友，又是总统的高级顾问的瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)说，米歇尔总是认为自己的角色是“天大的荣耀”，但并不是没有挑战。她用最近的毕业典礼演讲来分享了这一经历。
“The point is,” Ms. Jarrett said, “even as first lady of the United States, she’s still subject to criticism, and oftentimes that criticism is hurtful. But you can’t let it define you. That’s important for them to hear. Sometimes, there’s a tendency to put her up on a pedestal as if she’s immune from hurt, but she’s not.”
“关键是，”贾勒特说，“即便作为美国的第一夫人，她依然会受到批评，而且这些批评时常很伤人。但你不能让它限定你，让他们听到这一点很重要。人们有时候有一种将她奉为偶像的倾向，就好像她不会受伤害一样，但其实她会的。”
Mrs. Obama has often been open about her experiences and race in speeches that went largely unnoticed, but rarely more so than in the speech at Tuskegee, where she recalled the New Yorker cover in July 2008 depicting her with a large Afro and an assault rifle. “Now, yeah, it was satire, but if I’m being really honest, it knocked me back a bit,” she said. “It made me wonder, just how are people seeing me.”
在演讲中，米歇尔对自己的经历和种族颇为坦率，不过那些演讲大多没有引起注意。但她很少会比在塔斯基吉大学演讲时更坦率。她回忆起了2008年7月的《纽约客》(New Yorker)封面。在那期封面上，她被画成留着夸张的非洲式爆炸头(Afro)，背着突击步枪的样子。“是的，现在看那只是一幅讽刺画，但老实说，当时它让我有些吃惊，”她说。“它让我好奇，人们究竟是怎么看我的。”
She noted that a fist bump with her husband on the cover was referred to as a terrorist fist jab. “And over the years,” she said, “folks have used plenty of interesting words to describe me. One said I exhibited ‘a little bit of uppity-ism.’ Another noted that I was one of my husband’s ‘cronies of color.’ Cable news once charmingly referred to me as ‘Obama’s baby mama.’ ”
她提到，封面上她和丈夫碰拳的动作，被称作是“恐怖分子碰拳”。她说，“几年来，人们用很多有意思的词形容过我，有一个人说我显露出了一些‘自命不凡’。另一个人说我是我丈夫的‘有色朋党’之一。有线新闻台曾可爱地称我是‘奥巴马孩子的妈’。”
It bothered her. She wondered what people thought of her and feared what her daughters would think. “But eventually,” she said, “I realized that if I wanted to keep my sanity and not let others define me, there was only one thing I could do — and that was to have faith in God’s plan for me. I had to ignore all of the noise and be true to myself.”
这令她感到不安。她想知道别人怎么看她，担心女儿们会怎么想。“但最终，”她说，“我意识到，如果我想继续保持理智，不让别人来给我下定义，我可以做的事情只有一件——就是对上帝给我的安排抱有信心。我必须无视所有的噪声，做真实的自己。”
Brian Johnson, Tuskegee’s president, said it was powerful for graduates to understand that the president and first lady felt the bite of stereotypes. “I think they somehow thought that they were immune to that,” he said. “To hear her poignantly and practically share those experiences, more than I’d ever heard her, I think it deeply moved the audience.”
塔斯基吉大学的校长布赖恩·约翰逊(Brian Johnson)说，毕业生如果知道总统和第一夫人也曾因刻板印象感到受伤，这是十分有益的。“我想，学生们可能原以为他们就不会有那种感觉，”他说。“我以前从未听过她这样心酸地、坦率地分享这些经历，我认为这深深打动了听众。”
Mrs. Obama’s choice of venues for commencement addresses this spring underscored her message. Besides Tuskegee and King College Prep, she spoke at Oberlin College in Ohio, the first higher education institution in America to adopt a policy admitting black students and the first to award bachelor’s degrees to women in a coeducational program.
米歇尔今年春天选择的毕业典礼演讲场地，突显了她想传达的信息。除了塔斯基吉大学和金预备高中之外，她也在俄亥俄州欧柏林学院(Oberlin College)做了演讲，这是美国第一所招收黑人学生的高等教育机构，也是第一所向就读男女同班课程的女性授予学士学位的高校。
Speaking 50 years after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. addressed an Oberlin commencement, Mrs. Obama said it was tempting to “just tune out all of the noise” in a fractious political environment. “In fact, I sometimes have that instinct myself — run!” she said. But instead, she urged them to be involved, “to run to, and not away, from the noise.”
牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)在50年前，也曾在欧柏林学院的毕业典礼上做过演讲。米歇尔在这个演讲中表示，在暴躁易怒的政治环境中，“对所有噪声充耳不闻”是一种诱人的做法，“其实，我有时候自己也有那种本能——跑”，她说。但是她敦促他们参与进去，“跑向那些噪音，而不是逃离。”
Marvin Krislov, Oberlin’s president, said Mrs. Obama seemed to have been reflecting on her own journey in the White House. “You could see she was speaking partly to herself and to people like her who are tempted to say, ‘I don’t want to get involved because it’s so complicated,’ ” he said.
欧柏林学院的校长马文·克里斯洛夫(Marvin Krislov)说，米歇尔似乎一直在反思自己在白宫的经历。他说，“你可以看到，她部分上是在对她自己，以及像她那样的人讲话，这样的人面对着‘我不想参与其中，因为这太复杂了’的诱惑。”
Some still think Mrs. Obama has not been involved enough, that she has not used her platform to its full advantage. But they still see her as a powerful symbol. Marian Wright Edelman, the president of the Children’s Defense Fund, called the first lady an inspiration and said she was glad the president had proposed initiatives like universal preschool.
一些人仍然认为米歇尔没有足够地参与，没有充分发挥其平台的优势。但是，他们仍然把她视为一个强有力的象征。玛丽安·赖特·埃德尔曼(Marian Wright Edelman)是儿童保护基金会(Children’s Defense Fund)的会长，她说第一夫人的演讲有启迪性，还表示她很高兴总统此前提出了普及学前教育等举措。
“I wish these were bigger and higher on the agenda,” said Ms. Edelman, who was at the Oberlin event. “But it’s all nice to be the outside critic, and it is our job to push them on the policies. But on the other hand, she has to define who she is and be who she is and do what is comfortable with the hand she’s been given.”
“我希望这些项目在议事日程上处于更重大、更高的位置，”埃德尔曼说。她也出席了欧柏林的毕业典礼。“但从外面批评是很轻松的，而我们的工作是推动他们实施这些政策。另一方面，她必须定义自己是谁，并成为那样的自己，而且用她手里的牌，做一些得当的事情。”