Rare is the Washington secret that can be kept for any extended period of time. But after more than a year, one of the biggest mysteries of the Trump administration was finally revealed this week.
华盛顿的秘密很少能被隐藏多久。但在一年多后，特朗普政府最大的谜团之一终于在这周揭晓。
It was a picture frame.
是一个相框。
That was the present wrapped in a Tiffany & Company blue box that Melania Trump presented to a befuddled Michelle Obama as the Obamas greeted the soon-to-be first lady and her husband, Donald J. Trump, outside the north portico of the White House on Jan. 20, 2017, Inauguration Day.
这就是梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)为一脸困惑的米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)送上的蓝色蒂芙尼(Tiffany & Co.)礼盒中的礼物，那是2017年1月20日，也就是就职日当天，奥巴马夫妇正在白宫北柱廊外迎接即将上任的第一夫人和她的丈夫唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。
Mrs. Obama disclosed the box’s contents in a recent appearance on the Ellen DeGeneres Show, breaking her silence on an awkward moment that was broadcast live. “It was a lovely frame,” Mrs. Obama said on the show, which was broadcast on Thursday.
奥巴马夫人最近在上《艾伦秀》(The Ellen DeGeneres Show)的时候透露了礼盒里的东西，对这个现场直播的尴尬时刻首次发声。“那是个美丽的相框，”她在周四播出的节目上说。
On the show, Mrs. Obama recounted the moment she received the surprise gift.
在节目中，奥巴马夫人讲述了她收到这份意外礼物的时刻。
It might seem obvious now that it had to be a frame, but on Inauguration Day there were few clues. Mrs. Trump delivered it to Mrs. Obama after she exited a limousine outside the White House and the couples shook hands and hugged. On a day full of pomp and protocol, the couples were then supposed to pose for a photograph, as two Marines saluted by their sides.
那么现在应该清楚了，是个相框。但在就职日当天，人们却没什么头绪。当特朗普夫人从白宫外的一辆豪华轿车里出来，两夫妻互相握手拥抱之后，她把礼物递给了奥巴马夫人。在这样一个满是礼节的重大日子，他们接下来本应站好拍照，两名海军陆战队员在身旁敬礼。
But instead of pivoting for the photograph, Mrs. Trump handed Mrs. Obama a rectangular box wrapped in robin-egg blue paper and a white bow. Mrs. Obama grabbed it with two hands and then panicked. It was not part of the script, she confirmed on the show.
但特朗普夫人没有转身照相，而是把一个有着知更鸟蛋蓝色的包装纸、系着白色蝴蝶结的长方形盒子递给了奥巴马夫人。奥巴马夫人双手拿着礼物，开始慌张。剧本里没有这一段，她在节目中承认。
“I mean, this is like a state visit, so they tell you that you’re going to do this, they’re going to stand here,” Mrs. Obama said in the interview with Ms. DeGeneres. “Never before do you get this gift, so I’m sort of like, O.K.,” she said.
“我是说，这就像一次国事访问，他们会告诉你你要这么做，他们会站在这里，”奥巴马夫人在艾伦秀的采访中说。“从没有说过你要拿这个礼物，所以我感觉就是，好吧，”她说。
Holding the box, she turned to her left toward one of the Marines, glancing in all directions for a spot to place the gift. The Marine did not budge. It could not go on the ground. At last, she appeared to give up, resigned that it would appear in an official photograph to commemorate the transfer of power.
拿着礼盒的她转向了左边的一位海军陆战队员，四处寻找着一个可以放下礼物的地方。士兵没有让步。也不能把礼物放在地上。最后，她看起来像是放弃了，打算听任它出现在一张纪念权力交接的正式照片中。
But then Mr. Obama stepped in. “No, no, no,” he said, looking at the package. “Hold on a second.”
但随后奥巴马介入了。“不不不，”他看着这个礼盒说道。“稍等一会。”
Mr. Obama grabbed it and walked it inside the White House.
他拿过礼盒走进了白宫。
It was not seen in public again.
人们再也没见过这个礼盒。