WASHINGTON — She has perfected a mean forehand, is working on her yoga poses, dishes with girlfriends over Brussels sprouts and dirty martinis (one olive) at the Mediterranean hotspot Zaytinya, pushes her two teenage daughters to play two sports — one of her choosing and one of theirs — and said this week that the wonders of modern dermatology, like Botox, are in the realm of possibility for her.
华盛顿——她磨练出了凶狠的正手击球，还在完善她的瑜珈姿态，在热闹的地中海美食餐厅Zaytinya和女性朋友一边吃小卷心菜、喝脏马天尼（放一个橄榄），逼着两个十几岁的女儿从事两项体育运动——一项由她选择，一项由她们自己选。她本周表示，肉毒素(Botox)这样的现代皮肤学奇迹，目前正在她的考虑范围内。
Michelle Obama is in many ways the embodiment of the contemporary, urban, well-heeled middle-aged American woman. She likes to take “me time,” as she did during an extra vacation week without family in Hawaii, setting off a tabloid furor over the state of her marriage. She frets that her older daughter, 15-year-old Malia, hangs out with the boys a grade above her. She gardens, although unlike the rest of us, she has significant weeding help.
从很多方面来说，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)正是当今美国富裕的城市中年女性的化身。她喜欢享受“我的时间”，额外花了一周时间离开家人，独自在夏威夷度假，引来小报对她婚姻状态的种种猜测。看到她15岁的女儿马莉娅(Malia)与高她一级的男生外出，她会担心。她也搞园艺，但和其他人不同，她会在除草方面得到许多帮助。
She toys with false eyelashes.
她会玩假睫毛。
On Friday night Mrs. Obama will celebrate her 50th birthday with dancing and sweets throughout the state floor of the White House, drawing the nation’s attention at least for an evening away from her husband. Guests will sip fine American wines, consume delicate macarons and be entertained — the expectation is by Beyoncé.
周五晚，奥巴马夫人将在白宫国家楼层用甜食和跳舞庆祝她的50岁生日，至少这一夜这个国家会将注意力暂时从她丈夫的身上移开。宾客们会一边抿着美国产的葡萄美酒，吃着精致的马卡龙，一边欣赏表演——碧昂丝(Beyoncé)有望到场。
The mix of Hollywood and quirky individualism (American caterers, ready yourself for the onslaught of dessert-and-cocktails-only party requests) underscores the conflicting diptych of glamorous mystery woman and regular PTA mother that defines America’s first lady. Five years in, she has cobbled together a full life in Washington.
这种好莱坞和奇异个性特征的混合（美国宴会餐饮承办商们，准备好迎接只供应甜点和鸡尾酒的派对风潮吧）突显了美国第一夫人身上特有的那种矛盾：一方面是富有魅力、充满神秘感的女人，一方面是那个经常参加家长会的母亲。入主白宫五年后，她已在华盛顿规划出了充实的生活。
Sometimes she moves so discreetly through the area that a customer at a local Target store, not recognizing her, asked the first lady to reach for some highly perched toilet paper. At other times Mrs. Obama is on plain view around town as a parent on the sidelines of the soccer games of her daughter Sasha, 12.
有时她出行时实在太低调，以至于在本地的塔吉特百货(Target)里，有个没认出她的顾客要这位第一夫人帮忙拿放在高处的卫生纸。其他时候，她则会常常出现在城市各处，在足球场边线外看她12岁的女儿萨莎(Sasha)踢足球。
Marc Howard, whose daughter Zoe once played on the soccer team with Sasha, recalled how his daughter drained the tiny water bottle he had brought for her one hot Washington day on the field. Mrs. Obama lightheartedly chided him. “She said, ‘What kind of water bottle is that?’ and gave Zoe hers,” Mr. Howard said. “Those are things far away from the cameras.”
马克·霍华德(Marc Howard)的女儿佐依(Zoe)曾和萨莎在同一支足球队里，他记得在华盛顿的一个炎热日子里，他的女儿把带来的小水壶里的水一下子就喝光了。奥巴马夫人开玩笑地指责她，“她说，‘这是什么水壶啊？’然后把她的水给了佐依，”霍华德说道。“这些都是镜头以外的。”
For all of her complaints about the scrutiny and isolation that come with living in the White House, Mrs. Obama has created a vibrant life in Washington as well as a policy agenda that at times dovetails with her husband’s, particularly on education. But she maintains a powerful zone of privacy, aided by discreet friends and a controlling East Wing. Accounts of her life here are culled from interviews with staff members, friends and parents of Malia and Sasha’s schoolmates. The accounts also draw on Mrs. Obama’s public speeches and comments, including a recent interview with People magazine.
奥巴马夫人时常抱怨在白宫的生活与世隔绝，无时无刻不处在众人目光之下，不过还是在华盛顿过出了丰富多彩的生活，同时还有一套时不时能和丈夫的议程相吻合的政策议程，特别是在教育方面。但她依然在低调的朋友和大权在握的白宫东翼的帮助下，维护着一个强有力的隐私区域。对她的华盛顿生活的描述，全都来自与白宫工作人员、朋友以及马莉娅、萨莎同学父母的采访。这些描述也参考了奥巴马夫人的公开演讲和评论，包括最近与《人物》(People)杂志的一次访谈。
While Mrs. Obama has been careful not to define herself or her role strictly through race, she has paid steadfast attention to her role as a model and mentor to minority children from poor backgrounds like her own, and has built much of her policy agenda around them.
虽然奥巴马夫人十分谨慎，不会狭隘地通过种族来为自己和自己的角色定性，但她一直是出身贫困的少数族裔儿童效仿的模范和导师，她也十分重视这一角色，并且围绕它制定了许多自己的政策议程。奥巴马夫人自己就出身贫困的少数族裔家庭。
“She is more self-determinative than prior first ladies because she very rarely allows herself to be drawn into distracting conversations,” said Carl Anthony, a historian of first ladies. In addition, he said, “She speaks to a demographic pretty much ignored by the White House by all first ladies except for Eleanor Roosevelt.” He cited trips Mrs. Obama has made to the Anacostia neighborhood of Washington and White House invitations she has extended to local working-class African-Americans.
“跟以前的第一夫人们相比，她的自主性更强，因为她很少会卷入分散注意力的谈话，”研究第一夫人的历史学家卡尔·安东尼(Carl Anthony)说。此外，他说，“她在一个群体中引起了共鸣，除埃莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)之外的几乎所有美国第一夫人都忽视了这个群体。”他举的例子包括：奥巴马夫人前往华盛顿的阿纳科斯社区开展活动，白宫邀请函远及当地工薪阶层非裔美国人。
The Obamas and their daughters usually eat together as a family at the White House, but the president and first lady also give small dinner parties at home with a mix of friends, notable local columnists and others. A typical menu is grilled shrimp with tomatoes and peppers, followed by lean filet of steak (the first lady’s favorite) with potatoes and a selection of pies for dessert. Guests should not expect bread.
奥巴马夫妇和女儿们通常阖家在白宫吃饭，但总统和第一夫人有时也在家举办小型晚宴，邀请朋友、当地知名的专栏作家等人物参加。典型的菜品有番茄胡椒烤虾，然后上瘦肉菲力牛排（第一夫人的最爱）配土豆，甜点是各种馅饼。一般不给客人提供面包。
Mrs. Obama also frequents Washington’s restaurants of the moment. She has been spotted more than once sweeping into B.L.T. Steak on I Street with a gaggle of female friends, headed for a private room.
奥巴马夫人还经常光顾华盛顿的一些时新餐厅。不止一次有人看到她和几个叽叽喳喳的女伴进入位于I街的BLT牛排餐厅，直奔一个包间而去。
“She is interested in local food,” said Eddie Gehman Kohan, the executive editor of obamafoodorama.com, an obsessive digital archive of the food ways and nutrition agenda of the Obamas. “Her typical meal is whatever is going on at the restaurant that is seasonal and best.”
“她对本地食物很感兴趣。”obamafoodorama.com的执行主编埃迪·葛曼·科恩(Eddie Gehman Kohan)说。该网站记录了奥巴马一家的饮食和营养之道。“餐厅里的应季精华菜肴是什么，通常她就吃什么。”
Mrs. Obama also is known to wander the city’s museums and screen films at the White House, where she is partial to those that explore themes of poverty and struggle. This week she saw the movie “The Inevitable Defeat of Mister and Pete,” a story about poor children in New York produced by the singer Alicia Keys.
奥巴马夫人还以喜欢参观博物馆和在白宫看电影闻名，她偏爱那些探索贫困和奋斗的电影。本周她看的电影《米斯特和皮特不可避免的失败》(The Inevitable Defeat of Mister and Pete)讲述的是纽约贫困儿童的生活，其制片人是歌手艾丽西亚·凯斯(Alicia Keys)。
“This is truly one of my favorite films this year,” Mrs. Obama told her guests, including Ms. Keys. “And it obviously has moved me and it will be the guiding post for my work over the next three years.”
“这绝对是今年我最喜欢的电影之一，”奥巴马夫人对包括凯斯在内的客人说。“显然，我被它打动了，它将是未来三年中我要做的工作的标杆。”
In hairstyle news, the bangs of 2013 are gone, replaced by a traditional first lady wave. As Mrs. Obama told the TV chef Rachael Ray last year: “This is my midlife crisis, the bangs. I couldn’t get a sports car. They won’t let me bungee jump. So instead, I cut my bangs.”
发型方面，2013年的刘海不见了，改成了传统的第一夫人波浪。正如奥巴马夫人去年曾对电视烹饪节目主持人瑞切尔·雷(Racheael Ray)所说：“刘海跟我的中年危机有关。我不能去弄辆跑车。他们也不会同意我去玩蹦极跳。所以我就剪了个刘海。”
Then there is her fitness routine. Known for her biceps, Mrs. Obama has recently taken up yoga for strength training and takes vigorous walks through Rock Creek Park.
然后还有她的健身习惯。奥巴马夫人的二头肌很出名，最近她采用瑜伽来进行力量训练，并在岩溪公园健走。
She takes occasional tennis lessons with Malia or has clinics with friends to work on their swing. In addition to her forehand, “Michelle has a big backhand,” said Gordie Ernst, who coaches mother and daughter.
她偶尔也和玛丽娅去上网球课，或者跟朋友们参加改善挥拍动作的纠正训练。除了正手球之外，“米歇尔的反手也很强，”母女俩的教练戈迪·恩斯特(Gordie Ernst)说。
One thing Mrs. Obama tends not to do as much as previous first ladies is travel. There is still time.
跟以前的第一夫人们相比，奥巴马夫人做得比较少的一件事是旅行。现在也为时不晚。