HONG KONG — Iron Man has proved his might at the Chinese box office. Now Disney is betting that the Marvel superhero has enough muscle to complete a turnaround at its underperforming theme park here — a task of crucial importance as the company hurtles toward the opening of a mega-resort in Shanghai.
香港——《钢铁侠》(Iron Man)在中国的票房证明了自己的威力。现在迪士尼也在下注，看这名惊奇漫画(Marvel)超级英雄是否有足够能力让该公司在当地运营状况不佳的主题公园出现转机——迪士尼正铆足劲为其位于上海的巨大度假区的开幕做准备，这项任务也因此变得至关重要。
An Iron Man-themed thrill ride, photo pavilion and shopping area will open at Hong Kong Disneyland in late 2016, said Thomas O. Staggs, Disney’s theme park chairman. The Iron Man Experience, which analysts say will cost at least $100 million, will be Disney’s first ride based on Marvel. Disney bought the comic book company for about $4 billion in 2009.
迪士尼公园业务主席托马斯·O·斯塔格斯(Thomas O. Staggs)说，2016年末，香港迪士尼乐园将开放钢铁侠主题的云霄飞车、图片展馆及购物区。该钢铁侠体验项目将成为迪士尼第一次基于惊奇漫画推出的飞车，分析人士称其将耗费至少1亿美元（约合6亿人民币）。2009年，迪士尼以约40亿美元的价格收购了惊奇漫画公司。
At its core, the expansion is about shoring up a resort that Disney is counting on to act as an engine in Southeast China for its broader portfolio of merchandise and movies. Hong Kong Disneyland, criticized for its small size and locked in heated competition with nearby Ocean Park, has lost hundreds of millions of dollars since opening in 2005 because of smaller-than-expected attendance.
从根本上来看，这次扩张是要给该公司的上海度假区提供支持，迪士尼期待后者能成为公司的整体商品和电影业务在中国东南部的发展引擎。香港迪士尼乐园因面积小而受人诟病，并且受制于和附近的海洋公园的激烈竞争，自2005年开放以来，由于入园人数未达预期而已损失数亿美元。
Hong Kong Disneyland reported its first profit — a slim $14 million — for its last fiscal year, a signal that turnaround efforts, including a torrent of new rides and retooled marketing campaigns, are working. But the park remains a work in progress, and Disney needs to prove, to itself and others, that it can find the right success formula for Hong Kong Disneyland as a prelude to the much bigger undertaking in Shanghai.
上个财年，香港迪士尼乐园公布其首次盈利，数字只是区区1400万美元，但也表明其扭亏为盈的努力取得了成效，努力包括推出一系列飞车、重新调整营销策略。不过，香港迪士尼乐园仍在建设之中，迪士尼需要向自己及其他人证明，它能够为这个主题公园找到一个正确的成功之道，以此为上海更大项目的发展打响前奏。
An exclusive Iron Man offering could greatly increase Hong Kong Disneyland’s momentum. “Iron Man 3” took in $121.2 million in China this year. The related “Avengers” movie took in $84.1 million.
特有的钢铁侠主题娱乐项目可能会极大地促进香港迪士尼乐园的发展势头。今年，《钢铁侠3》在中国吸金1.212亿美元。相关电影《复仇者联盟》(Avengers)则吸金8410万美元。
“It’s important for us to have a story for our Hong Kong guests, a little bit of bragging rights that they have something that nobody else has,” said Bill Ernest, the president of Disney’s theme parks in Asia.
“对我们来说，为香港的游客提供一个故事很重要，这会让他们得到其他人都不曾得到的体验，给他们一点炫耀的资本，”迪士尼主题乐园亚洲区总裁安智明(Bill Ernest)说。
The decision to deploy one of its mightiest assets at Hong Kong Disneyland reflects the delicate balancing act that Disney faces as it prepares to open the Shanghai resort in 2015. To achieve its growth goals in China, Disney needs both beachheads to thrive. Disney must also fend off competition in the booming Chinese theme park market, including an $8.2 billion movie-themed resort and real estate development announced late last month for the seaside city of Qingdao.
迪士尼决定将旗下最宝贵资产之一放在香港迪士尼乐园，表明在为上海度假区2015年开放做准备之时，迪士尼需要保持微妙的平衡。为实现其中国的发展目标，迪士尼需要这两处桥头堡都能繁荣发展。迪士尼还需要在中国发展迅速的主题公园市场中打败竞争对手，对手包括上月末宣布的为海滨城市青岛打造的价值82亿美元的电影主题度假区和房地产开发区。
Disney insists that its two Chinese parks will draw from different population bases, much like its resorts in Florida and California do. “We are confident that Hong Kong Disneyland and Shanghai Disneyland will complement and reinforce each other,” Mr. Staggs said in an e-mail.
迪士尼坚称，位于中国的两处乐园将吸引不同的人群，和其位于佛罗里达和加利福尼亚的乐园很类似。“我们相信，香港迪士尼和上海迪士尼可以互相补充，彼此促进，”斯塔格斯在邮件中写道。
Some economists here agree. But Disney at the very least faces a very local challenge: Hong Kong leaders, already feeling a bit insecure about the ascension of Shanghai as a financial capital, do not want their Disneyland to be viewed as less than successful and are counting on it to help fuel tourism growth to the city. The Hong Kong government owns 52.44 percent of Hong Kong Disneyland, with Disney controlling the balance.
这里的一些经济学家对此表示赞同。但迪士尼至少也面临着一个和当地十分相关的挑战：香港的领导者已对上海作为金融之都的上升势头感到不安，他们不想让香港迪士尼给人留下不那么成功的印象，并且指望游乐园为当地增加旅游收入。香港政府拥有香港迪士尼乐园52.44%的股份，迪士尼掌有收支管理权。
Disney has 11 major parks worldwide that recorded 126.5 million visitors last year and delivered profit of $1.9 billion.
迪士尼在全球有11个大型主题乐园，据统计，这些乐园去年吸引了1.265亿名游客，创造了19亿美元的利润。
Disney gave few details about the planned Iron Man ride, saying only that it will allow guests to take flight with the superhero as he fights alien invaders across the streets and skyline of Hong Kong — a tease that will surely make Marvel’s rabid fan base salivate. Even without specifics, the announcement will also help to end what has long been Hong Kong Disneyland’s biggest question: Is it big enough?
迪士尼没有透露钢铁侠飞车的具体细节，只是说在这名超级英雄飞越香港街头和天空与外星入侵者战斗时，游客能和他一起飞行——这个关子可能会让惊奇漫画的狂热粉丝垂涎三尺。即使没有具体细节，声明也将有助于解决香港迪士尼长期以来面临的最大问题：够大吗？
After building a theme park complex outside Paris in the early 1990s that was much bigger than demand ultimately warranted (and is still causing the company headaches), Disney pursued the opposite strategy with Hong Kong, where plans called for growth in phases. “We wanted to get our bearings when it came to our Asian consumers,” Mr. Ernest said, noting that Chinese children have not traditionally grown up with Mickey Mouse and his cartoon friends.
20世纪90年代初，迪士尼在巴黎市郊建造了一个远远大于最终保障需求的迪士尼主题公园（它至今依然让该公司头疼），有鉴于此，迪士尼在香港采取了相反的策略，计划分阶段扩大规模。欧内斯特说，“就亚洲消费者而言，我们希望找准自己的定位。”他指出，中国儿童没有在米老鼠(Mickey Mouse)及其卡通伙伴陪伴之下成长的传统。
But the park’s small size annoyed many local guests, who wanted more rides to go with the extravagant landscaping.
不过，香港迪士尼乐园的规模小得让许多本地游客不满，他们想要更多的主题园区，希望它们与乐园的铺张布局相称。
Opening-year attendance missed projections, and the number of visitors dropped by more than 20 percent the following year, to about four million people. (To compare, the older Disneyland Paris now attracts  11.2 million visitors annually.) The Hong Kong park did not offer enough attractions to draw the expected interest from China’s adjacent Guangdong province in particular, economists say. About 106  million people live in Guangdong.
香港迪士尼乐园开园当年的游园人数未能达到预期，游客人数在第二年下跌了超过20%，跌至大约400万人次。（与之比较，年代更久远的巴黎迪士尼乐园目前每年吸引的游客为1120万人次）。一些经济学家说，格外值得一提的是，香港迪士尼乐园未能提供足够多的娱乐项目，由此未能让毗邻香港的中国广东省游客产生预计会有的兴趣。广东省大约有1.06亿常住人口。
In terms of attendance, “we could easily triple it or quadruple it,” said Nicholas Kwan, the research director at the Hong Kong Trade Development Council, an advisory group originally created by the government that now works closely with local chambers of commerce.
提到游园人数时，香港贸易发展局研究总监关家明表示，“我们能轻易地让游园人数翻上三倍或者四倍。”贸发局是一个咨询机构，最初由政府创建，目前和当地商会保持着密切的合作。
When Disney has a will, it generally finds a way. Since 2011, the company has spent about $465 million on an aggressive expansion of Hong Kong Disneyland. New areas include Grizzly Gulch, a gold rush town that features a roller coaster that runs backward; Mystic Point, where a twist on the famed Haunted Mansion now operates; and Toy Story Land, a lavishly themed collection of rides and shops.
一旦下定决心，迪士尼通常能找到实现目标的途径。自2011年以来，该公司已经耗资4.65亿美元，用于大力扩建香港迪士尼乐园。新园区包括灰熊山谷(Grizzly Gulch)，这是一个淘金小镇，特色是有一座能够反向运行的过山车；还有迷离庄园(Mystic Point)项目，园里经营着大名鼎鼎的幽灵鬼屋(Haunted Mansion)曲折之旅项目。还有反斗奇兵大本营( Toy Story Land)，这是一个集中了大量娱乐项目和店铺的主题园区。
“We think we are successful, and a lot of that success is balanced around new product,” including parades and seasonal events, Mr. Ernest said, stopping short of trumpeting a formal turnaround. He declined to discuss continuing talks with the government to build new hotels at the resort — it currently has two — and add a Downtown Disney shopping district.
欧内斯特说，“我认为，我们是成功的，这种成功有很大一部分来自新项目，”其中包括巡游和季节性活动。不过，他并没有大张旗鼓地正式宣称扭亏为盈。他拒绝讨论与政府之间持续进行的商谈，商谈内容是在园区内建立新的酒店、以及添加一条迪士尼购物区步行街。目前，园区内有两家酒店。
The new areas that are already open, which have increased the park’s size by about 25 percent, contributed to an 14 percent increase in attendance last year, to about 6.7 million, according to the Themed Entertainment Association. Disney says that 45 percent of Hong Kong Disneyland’s customers now come from mainland China, compared with 34 percent in 2006. The company, feeling confident about increased demand, raised ticket prices by 12.8 percent in March; general admission now costs about $58.
根据世界主题公园协会(Themed Entertainment Association)的数据，已经开放的新园区使香港迪士尼乐园的规模增加了25%左右，促使游园人数在去年增长了14%，达到670万人次左右。迪士尼表示，目前，香港迪士尼乐园有45%的游客来自中国内地，相比之下，2006年的内地游客比例只有34%。该公司对需求的增加信心十足，今年3月，迪士尼把票价提高了12.8%；目前的通票价格约为58美元。
“The new attractions are much more fun than the old ones,” said Kevin Lau, a Hong Kong hotel manager. “Before we always found it small.”
香港一家酒店的经理刘凯文（音译）说，“新项目的吸引力比老项目大得多。以前，我们总是觉得它规模小。”
Still, Mr. Lau said that the less expensive Ocean Park, which was visited by 7.4 million people last year, retains his loyalty, in part because of his own childhood memories there. Despite its progress, Hong Kong Disneyland still has areas that need improvement, he said.
不过，刘凯文说，稍微便宜一些的海洋公园依然让他忠心耿耿，这部分是由于那里有他童年的记忆。海洋公园去年的参观人次是740万。他说，虽然取得了进步，香港迪士尼乐园依然有待改进。
“The food in the park could be more attractive with better quality,” Mr. Lau said. “We always give up eating inside the park and go back to town for dinner.”
刘凯文说，“乐园的餐食应该提高质量，以便增加吸引力。我们总是放弃在园内吃饭，回到市内就餐。”
Disney is proud of its food offerings, which now includes halal-certified cuisine for Muslim visitors. But new food could presumably accompany Iron Man’s arrival at the park. As any Marvel fan knows, he is a huge aficionado of the American cheeseburger.
迪士尼为自己的食品供应感到骄傲，现在的餐食包括了为穆斯林游客准备的经过清真食品认证的菜肴。不过，新的食品大概会和钢铁侠的落户相匹配。任何惊奇漫画的粉丝都知道，钢铁侠是美国奶酪汉堡的狂热拥趸。