A widely used method of treating a common cause of back and leg pain — steroid injections for spinal stenosis — may provide little benefit for many patients, according to a new study that experts said should make doctors and patients think twice about the treatment.
新研究显示，一种被广泛用于治疗普通腰腿痛的方法——通过类固醇注射治疗椎管狭窄症——或许对很多患者并无益处，专家们表示，医生和患者在使用这种治疗方案前应该三思。
Hundreds of thousands of injections are given for stenosis each year in the United States, experts say, costing hundreds of millions of dollars.
专家称，在美国，医生每年都会为椎管狭窄患者进行数十万次的注射，费用高达数亿美元。
But the study, the largest randomized trial evaluating the treatment, found that patients receiving a standard stenosis injection — which combine a steroid and a local anesthetic — had no less pain and virtually no greater function after six weeks than patients injected with anesthetic alone. The research, involving 400 patients at 16 sites, was published Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine.
相关人员开展了最大规模的随机试验，对该治疗方案进行评估。研究发现，在治疗六周后，与只注射麻醉剂的患者相比，接受标准注射——类固醇加麻醉剂——治疗椎管狭窄症的患者，疼痛症状没有减轻，实际上效果不大。该研究涉及16个地方的400名患者，《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)于周三刊登了研究报告。
“Certainly there are more injections than actually should happen,” said Dr. Gunnar Andersson, the chairman emeritus of orthopedic surgery at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, who was not involved in the research. “It’s sort of become the thing you do. You see this abnormality on the M.R.I. and the patient complains, and immediately, you send the patient for an epidural injection.”
“实际注射的量当然超出了合理范围，”芝加哥拉什大学医学中心(Rush University Medical Center)矫形外科荣休主任贡纳尔·安德森(Gunnar Andersson)博士说。“有点成了自然而然的事情了。你从核磁共振成像中看到了异常情况，患者也有诉说，然后你就立即让患者进行硬膜外注射。”安德森参与了这项研究。
Often caused by wear and tear, spinal stenosis occurs when spaces within the spine narrow, putting pressure on nerves and causing pain or numbness in the back and the legs. More than a third of people over 60 have some narrowing, research suggests.
椎管狭窄通常是由磨损造成的，当脊柱内的空间非常狭窄时，神经受压，引发腰腿痛或麻木。研究显示，在60岁以上的人当中，超过三分之一的人存在椎管狭窄的问题。
Steroid injections, which reduce inflammation, are often tried when physical therapy or anti-inflammatory medication fails, with the aim of avoiding expensive surgery. Some insurance companies require injections before approving surgery.
当物理治疗或抗炎药都没有效果时，为了避免昂贵的手术，人们通常通过类固醇注射消炎。一些保险公司在批准手术之前，会要求采取注射治疗法。
The study provides evidence to tell some patients, “This probably isn’t going to work very well for you,” said Dr. Ray Baker, a past president of the North American Spine Society and the International Spine Intervention Society, who was not involved in the study. And because some participants received two injections without greater benefit, “it strongly speaks against the practice of performing multiple injections.”
该研究提供了证据，可以告诉一些患者，“这对你可能没有多大效果，” 雷·贝克(Ray Baker)博士说。曾经担任北美脊柱外科协会(North American Spine Society)及国际脊椎介入疗法协会(International Spine Intervention Society)主席的贝克没有参与这项研究。一些参与者接受了两次注射，但没有产生较好的效果，“这个结果明显说明，多次注射没有用。”
But the study leaves the options for some patients unclear.
但是，这篇论文并未说明一些病人应该做何选择。
“We don’t have a lot of good things in our toolbox for spinal stenosis,” Dr. Baker said. “We’re really stuck with a problem” with an aging population.
“对于椎管狭窄，我们并没有太多好的治疗手段，”贝克说。在人口老龄化的情况下，“我们的确是被这个问题难住了。”
Spinal injections are considered effective for other conditions, like herniated discs. But of the 2.2 million given annually to people on Medicare, about a quarter are for spinal stenosis, said Dr. Janna Friedly, a professor of rehabilitation medicine at the University of Washington and the study’s lead author. She said injections cost $500 to $2,000 each. The study helps answer questions raised by the Spine Society and the Cochrane Collaboration, a group of medical experts. Both issued reviews last year finding insufficient evidence to recommend injections for some types of stenosis.
有人认为，对于椎间盘突出等其他情况，脊椎注射是有效的。但是在每年享受联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的220万注射者当中，大约有四分之一是由于椎管狭窄才进行注射的。华盛顿大学(University of Washington)康复医学教授、该论文的第一作者吉安娜·弗瑞利博士(Dr. Janna Friedly)说。她表示，注射费用为每支500美元（约合3000元人民币）到2000美元。论文回答了北美脊柱外科协会(Spine Society)和由一群医学专家组成的科克伦协作网(Cochrane Collaboration)所提出的问题。两个组织去年所发布的评估报告都未找到充分的证据证明，对某些类型的椎管狭窄采取注射治疗是值得推荐的做法。
“If the benefit really isn’t there and you do the procedure more and more, then all you’re doing is compounding the risk,” said Dr. Christopher Standaert, a co-author of the study and a professor at the University of Washington.
华盛顿大学(University of Washington)教授、论文联合作者克里斯托弗·斯坦迪尔特博士(Dr. Christopher Standaert)说，“如果真的看不到好处，而你还在反复进行注射，就只会增加风险。”
Dr. Scott Kreiner, a co-chairman of the Spine Society’s evidence-based guidelines committee, said the new research should “influence future guidelines.”
脊柱外科协会循证指导委员会的联合主席斯科特·克赖纳博士(Dr. Scott Kreiner)表示，新研究将“影响未来的指导方针”。