Hsiu-Chen Kuei waited until her husband and three sons had gone to bed one night recently before surreptitiously beginning work on an ambitious personal project.
桂秀珍（Hsiu-Chen Kuei，音）得等到她的丈夫和三个儿子晚上上床睡觉后才能秘密地开始她雄心勃勃的个人项目。
As they slept, Kuei, 48, a stay-at-home mother from San Jose, Calif., hunkered down at her computer and began poring over highlight videos featuring Charlotte Hornets guard Jeremy Lin, her favorite N.B.A. player. She fumbled around on Final Cut Pro, a video-editing program, splicing together the specific clips she had sought. She did this for six straight nights, three hours each night.
在他们睡觉时，桂秀珍这位来自加州圣何塞的48岁全职妈妈，俯身坐在她的电脑前开始全神贯注于她最喜爱的NBA球员，夏洛特黄蜂队后卫林书豪的精彩视频。她摸索着使用一款名为Final Cut Pro的视频编辑程序，将她找到的这些特别片段拼接在一起。她连续六个晚上都在做这件事，每晚花三小时。
On April 5, Kuei uploaded her finished product, a six-and-a-half-minute video, to YouTube. She called it “Jeremy Lin: Too Flagrant Not to Call.” Piecing together clips of Lin over the years getting whacked in the face, clotheslined, bleeding, tumbling to the floor — all without ever drawing a flagrant foul — Kuei tried to convey that Lin, an American-born son of immigrants from Taiwan, was the victim of excessive physicality from opponents and insufficient protection from the league and its referees.
到了4月5日，她在YouTube上传了自己的最终作品，一段六分半钟的视频。她称之为《林书豪：遭恶意犯规却无判罚》。桂秀珍将林历年来遭脸部重击、抱颈阻截、流血、摔倒在地的片段拼接在一起——所有这些都没有得到恶意犯规的裁定——想要表达，林书豪这位美国出生的台湾移民之子，是对手球员过度的身体对抗和联盟及其裁判保护不力的受害者。
To Kuei’s surprise, the video soon attracted close to a million views, capturing the attention of basketball fans around the world and the eye of the league — even if no one quite knew who was behind it. With its bruising simplicity, it revived questions about the fairness and consistency of officiating in the N.B.A. and sparked conversations about the possible effects of latent racial biases. With its far-flung reach, it reiterated the power of social media in the contemporary sports landscape.
令桂秀珍诧异的是，这个视频很快吸引了近一百万观看次数，获得了全球篮球迷的注意和联盟的目光——尽管没人太知道它的背后是谁。通过简单直接的方式，它唤起了对于NBA公平性和判罚一致性的质疑并激起了有关潜在的种族偏见可能产生的影响的讨论。经过其广泛蔓延的传播，它重申了社交媒体在当今体育界的力量。
“I’m just happy that people are noticing this,” Kuei said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. “It’s not about views. I didn’t get money or anything. I didn’t want attention. I just want Lin to get fair calls.”
“我很高兴人们正在注意到这个视频，”桂秀珍在周二的一次电话采访中说。“它无关点阅量。我没有获得金钱或任何东西。我不想得到关注。我只是希望林书豪能得到公平对待。”
Kuei’s original clip had been viewed more than 980,000 times and had more than 1,000 comments through Thursday morning. A version of the video with Chinese subtitles had more than 750,000 views on YouTube. Threads on online messages boards, like Reddit, engendered fevered discussion and debate.
她的原始视频在周四早上已有超过98万次的观看数以及超过1000次评论。该视频的中文字幕版在YouTube上已有逾75万次的观看数。Reddit等线上论坛中的相关话题引起了激烈的讨论和争辩。
The video kept spreading. Media outlets in Taiwan and Hong Kong, where Lin counts many fans, ran stories on it this week. Though it seems not yet to have attracted the attention of the news media on the Chinese mainland, fans on social media there have taken notice: A copy of the video posted to Weibo, a popular microblogging service in mainland China, was spreading.
视频仍在持续传播中。本周，在林书豪拥有许多粉丝的台湾和香港，媒体对其进行了报道。尽管看起来它还没有吸引中国大陆新闻媒体的注意，那里的社交媒体粉丝已关注此事：该视频被发布到了中国大陆广受欢迎的微博客服务新浪微博上，并在广泛传播中。
To accompany the video, Kuei recruited two online acquaintances from Lin-centric message boards to help draft a formal letter to send to the N.B.A. She then encouraged fans — some of whom she understood might not be comfortable writing in English — to copy the letter and send it to the league, too.
为了配合这个视频，桂秀珍动员了两位网上的好友，他们都来自以林书豪为主题的留言板，帮助起草一份正式信件，以发送给NBA。然后她鼓励粉丝们也复制这个信件内容并发送给联盟，因为她理解其中有些人可能用英语写信有困难。
“Throughout Lin’s six years in the N.B.A., we have continuously witnessed Lin as the recipient of numerous hard fouls with unnecessary and excessive force by other players,” the letter reads. “In these cases, the referees either didn’t make the calls or made incorrect calls.”
“在林书豪六年的NBA生涯中，我们一直看到他经受了来自其他球员无数的强硬犯规，使用了不当和过度的力道，“这封信中写道。“在这些情况下，裁判或者是没有做出判罚或者是做出了错误的判罚。”
The N.B.A. responded with a statement. It was a notable victory — a grass-roots, fan-led project receiving acknowledgment from a major sports league — but the N.B.A. stood by the handling of all the plays highlighted in the video. Fans who wrote to the league appeared to receive the same form letter encouraging them to read rules categorizing different fouls. An identical statement was forwarded to any media outlets seeking comment.
美职篮(NBA)用一份声明给出了回应。这是一项令人瞩目的胜利：一个来自草根，由粉丝发起的计划收到了来自一个重要体育联盟的回应。但对视频中标出的所有比赛场面，NBA支持其处理结果。写信给联盟的粉丝收到的好像是相同的信件，建议他们去读区别不同违规的规则。对于任何想要寻求评论的媒体，发送来的也是一份同样的声明。
“While some of the plays in the video involved hard contact, none was subsequently deemed a Flagrant Foul given the full circumstances, angles and comparables from past games,” the statement reads.
“尽管视频中有些比赛场面确实有实打实的肢体碰触，但就当时整个环境、角度和同以往的比赛相比较来看，没有一个能够在后续被判定为恶意违规，”该声明中写道。
Kuei and her partners found the league’s response disappointing and unsatisfactory. “They are telling us to look at the rules, but it doesn’t seem like they are looking at the rules,” said Jenny Wei, who was born in Taiwan and now is a stay-at-home mother in Los Angeles. She composed the first draft of the letter. “I feel like they think we’re not smart or we don’t know basketball. We know basketball.”
桂秀珍和她的搭档对联盟的回应感到失望和不满。“他们让我们去看规则，但看起来好像是他们没在看规则，”詹妮·卫(Jenny Wei)说，她出生在台湾，现在是住在洛杉矶的全职妈妈。她撰写了这封信件的第一版。“我觉得他们好像是认为我们脑袋不灵光或是我们不懂篮球。我们懂篮球。”
The video eventually made its way to Lin, who expressed his appreciation for the group’s efforts after the Hornets game on Sunday night. In an interview with Dennis Tsai, Lin said he agreed with the premise of the video, even as he acknowledged that there was little about the situation that he could control.
这个视频最终被林书豪所知，他在黄蜂队周日晚上的比赛后对这个小组的努力表示了感谢。在和丹尼斯·蔡(Dennis Tsai)的采访中，林书豪表示他认同这个视频的假设，尽管他承认对于这种情形他也不能掌控。
“I’m just psyched that the fans are trying to do something about it and trying to push the league to at least review some of the stuff,” Lin said.
”我很激动，粉丝在尝试着做一些与此有关的事情并推动联盟至少重审一下这些比赛画面，“林说。
The three fans involved in the project — Kuei, Wei and Koon-Ping Chan, a third fan from Bayside, Queens, who was born in Hong Kong and helped edit Wei’s draft — have never met in person, but they interact almost daily in online chat groups. They all began following Lin after his breakout season with the Knicks in 2012 and now belong to the fervent community of Lin supporters that spreads over multiple continents.
参与这个计划的三位粉丝——桂秀珍、詹妮以及香港出生、来自皇后区贝塞德并帮助润色草稿的第三位粉丝陈冠平（Koon-Ping Chan，音）——素未谋面，但他们几乎每天都在线上聊天群里进行互动。他们皆于2012年林书豪在尼克斯队的成名季后开始喜欢他，现在属于他最狂热的支持者群体，该群体成员遍及多个大洲。
They did not attempt to establish a case through statistics because data cannot capture what was at the heart of their complaint. It was the brutality of the individual fouls, not the overall tally, that angered them. “Did you see those fouls, how his neck snapped back?” Wei said.
他们没有尝试用统计数据来证明他们的控诉，因为数字无法表达他们的不满的核心。是一个个犯规时的残暴程度，而非整体次数，激怒了他们。“你看到这些犯规了吗，他的脖子是怎样被打得向后仰去？”詹妮说。
Critics of the video have suggested similar ones could be made about other players. Kuei, who was born in Taiwan, does not disagree with that notion and does not feel that it contradicts her view that Lin gets shortchanged. She said fans of other players should make their own videos.
批评视频的人说，也可以针对其他球员制作类似的视频。出生在台湾的桂秀珍并不同意这个见解，也并不觉得这和她认为林书豪受到欺压的观点有矛盾。她表示其他球员的粉丝也应该制作出他们自己的视频。
“Through this, I just want to make sure the rules apply to every player and players get protected by the rules,” Kuei said.
“通过这个视频，我只想要确保比赛规则适用于每个球员，球员们都能受到规则的保护，”桂秀珍说。
Though Kuei’s video does not attempt to speculate on the root cause of Lin’s perceived treatment, much of the ensuing discussion has gravitated toward Lin’s race.
桂秀珍的视频并不尝试揣测林书豪受到人们眼中的不公平对待的根本原因，但却引发了很多关于林书豪的种族身份的讨论。
When Yu Guohua, a first cousin of Jeremy Lin’s mother, a retired plastic factory worker who lives near Hangzhou on mainland China, learned of the video, he said, “Of course he’s being badly mistreated.”
林书豪母亲的同辈亲戚于国华（音）是一名退休的塑料厂工人，居住在中国大陆的杭州市附近。得知这个视频时，他说，“他当然遭受了非常严重的不良对待。”
Kuei was quick to note that neither the video nor the letter accused anyone of racism. But she and her partners said they understood why people might be drawn to such conclusions.
桂秀珍很快就指出，她的视频和信件均无意对任何人作出与种族主义有关的指控。但她和她的伙伴表示可以理解为什么人们可能达成这种结论。
“I do think, in my mind, clearly at a minimum, we could say he’s being treated differently,” said Chan, 68, a former banker. “We want people to make up their own minds, to try to interpret it.”
“在我内心深处的确认为，显然我们至少可以说，他受到了区别对待，”68岁的前银行从业者陈冠平说。“我们想让人们自己去判断，自己去解读。”
Wei agreed. “I experience things as an Asian in America,” she said. “It’s there.”
詹妮·魏表示同意。“身为亚裔，我在美国经历过这样的事情，”她说。“有些东西的确存在。”
Though the group has found the league’s response underwhelming, they have been invigorated by the reaction from other fans and the news media. The video, for instance, inspired a follow-up examination on Wednesday from the ESPN reporter Tom Haberstroh, who noted in his own short video that the 813 fouls that Lin had drawn over the past three seasons represented the highest total for a guard — and the third highest number for any position — without a flagrant foul.
尽管这几个人对NBA的反应感到失望，但来自其他粉丝和新闻媒体的回应让他们颇受鼓舞。举个例子，受该视频启发，ESPN的记者汤姆·哈伯施特罗(Tom Haberstroh)做了后续核查，他在自己的短片中指出，过去三个赛季中林书豪共造成对手犯规813次，却没有一次被判恶意犯规，这在后卫中名列第一，在打各个位置的所有球员中名列第三。
“That proved it,” Wei said of the report, laughing. “We’re not crazy.”
“这证明了一点，”詹妮·魏谈及该报导时笑着说，“我们没疯。”
Kuei said she had more hard fouls in mind to use for a video sequel, if she determines it is necessary. For now, she will watch the playoffs carefully to see if Lin gets any calls from the referees. And just as important, she will divert some of her attention back to other issues she left unattended while defending her favorite player.
桂秀珍说，如果她觉得有必要做一部续集，那她心目中还有更多严重的犯规可以用作续集的素材。目前，她会密切关注季后赛，看裁判是否会就针对林书豪的犯规做出判罚。同样重要的是，她会把一部分注意力转移到为了捍卫自己钟爱的球员而荒疏的其他事务上。
“I haven’t filed my tax returns yet,” Kuei said with a sigh. “I spent too much time on the video.”
“我还没进行纳税申报呢，”桂秀珍叹了口气，说道。“我在视频上花了太多时间。”