I used to believe that a mammogram saved my life. I even wrote that in the pages of this magazine. It was 1996, and I had just turned 35 when my doctor sent me for an initial screening — a relatively common practice at the time — that would serve as a base line when I began annual mammograms at 40. I had no family history of breast cancer, no particular risk factors for the disease.
我原先一直以为，是乳房钼靶检查救了我一命。我甚至曾在这本杂志中写过这方面内容。那是在1996年，当时我刚满35岁，医生让我做一次初查——在当时这是较为普遍的做法——待到我年满40岁，开始每年照一次钼靶时，这次筛查可以作为基准线。我没有家族遗传史，也没有患乳腺癌的特殊危险因素。
So when the radiologist found an odd, bicycle-spoke-like pattern on the film — not even a lump — and sent me for a biopsy, I wasn’t worried. After all, who got breast cancer at 35?
所以，在放射科医生在片子上发现了一块奇怪的、自行车轮辐状的图案（它甚至并不是肿块），并安排我接受活检时，我并不担心。说到底，有谁会在35岁时就得乳腺癌呢？
It turns out I did. Recalling the fear, confusion, anger and grief of that time is still painful. My only solace was that the system worked precisely as it should: the mammogram caught my tumor early, and I was treated with a lumpectomy and six weeks of radiation; I was going to survive.
事实证明，我确实得了。想起当时我的恐惧、困惑、愤怒与悲痛，仍然让人不免心酸。我唯一的慰藉是治疗体系运行得不孚期望：钼靶检查早早发现了我的肿瘤，我接受了乳房肿瘤切除术，并进行了六周放疗；我可以活下来。
By coincidence, just a week after my diagnosis, a panel convened by the National Institutes of Health made headlines when it declined to recommend universal screening for women in their 40s; evidence simply didn’t show it significantly decreased breast-cancer deaths in that age group. What’s more, because of their denser breast tissue, younger women were subject to disproportionate false positives — leading to unnecessary biopsies and worry — as well as false negatives, in which cancer was missed entirely.
巧合的是，就在我确诊得了乳腺癌一周后，由美国国家卫生研究所(National Institutes of Health)召集的专家组表示，它不会做出40-50岁的女性接受普遍乳腺癌筛查的推荐，因为证据并不足以显示筛查可降低这个年龄组女性因乳腺癌死亡的风险，这个决定见诸于报章头条。此外专家组还表示，由于年轻女性的乳房组织较为致密，往往会出现不成比例的假阳性结果——这会导致不必要的活检和忧虑——同时也会出现假阴性，令人们完全错失了发现癌症的良机。
Those conclusions hit me like a sucker punch. “I am the person whose life is officially not worth saving,” I wrote angrily. When the American Cancer Society as well as the newer Susan G. Komen foundation rejected the panel’s findings, saying mammography was still the best tool to decrease breast-cancer mortality, friends across the country called to congratulate me as if I’d scored a personal victory. I considered myself a loud-and-proud example of the benefits of early detection.
这些结论就像一记重拳，出其不意地击中了我。“官方认为，我的性命根本不值得挽救，”我悲愤地这样写道。美国癌症协会(American Cancer Society)及较晚成立的苏珊·G·科曼基金会(Susan G. Komen foundation)驳斥了专家组的结论，表示乳房钼靶检查仍是降低乳腺癌死亡率的最佳工具，听闻这个消息，来自美国各地的朋友们找来电话向我祝贺，就好像我个人取得了成功似的。我将自己视为早期检测益处的榜样，为之大声疾呼。
Sixteen years later, my thinking has changed. As study after study revealed the limits of screening — and the dangers of overtreatment — a thought niggled at my consciousness. How much had my mammogram really mattered? Would the outcome have been the same had I bumped into the cancer on my own years later? It’s hard to argue with a good result. After all, I am alive and grateful to be here. But I’ve watched friends whose breast cancers were detected “early” die anyway. I’ve sweated out what blessedly turned out to be false alarms with many others.
16年过去了，我的想法发生了转变。关于筛查局限性和过度治疗危险性的研究报告层出不穷，一个想法在噬咬着我的良知。我接受的钼靶射线检查究竟有多重要？假如是在几年以后，我通过自检自己摸过了肿块，结果是否会一样？你很难去跟一个皆大欢喜的结局争辩。毕竟我现在活着，而且对此心怀感激。但我也确实见到了被查出“早期”乳腺癌的朋友们最后还是撒手人寰。于我的神圣恩典对于其他许多人来说，却只是一场虚惊，这让我捏了一把冷汗。
Recently, a survey of three decades of screening published in November in The New England Journal of Medicine found that mammography’s impact is decidedly mixed: it does reduce, by a small percentage, the number of women who are told they have late-stage cancer, but it is far more likely to result in overdiagnosis and unnecessary treatment, including surgery, weeks of radiation and potentially toxic drugs. And yet, mammography remains an unquestioned pillar of the pink-ribbon awareness movement. Just about everywhere I go — the supermarket, the dry cleaner, the gym, the gas pump, the movie theater, the airport, the florist, the bank, the mall — I see posters proclaiming that “early detection is the best protection” and “mammograms save lives.” But how many lives, exactly, are being “saved,” under what circumstances and at what cost? Raising the public profile of breast cancer, a disease once spoken of only in whispers, was at one time critically important, as was emphasizing the benefits of screening. But there are unintended consequences to ever-greater “awareness” — and they, too, affect women’s health.
在去年11月的《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上刊登了一篇文章，对30年来的钼靶筛查进行了调查，结果发现筛查带来的结果好坏参半：它确实减少了直至癌症进展到晚期才得以确诊的女性比例，不过这个降幅很小，同时，它却有较大可能导致过度诊断和不必要的治疗，包括手术、为期数周的放疗和可能有毒害的药物。可是毫无疑问，钼靶筛查仍然是粉红丝带乳腺癌意识运动的基石。无论是去哪里——超市、干洗店、健身房、加油站、电影院、机场、花店、银行、商场——我都能看到粉红丝带运动张贴的标语，宣称“早期检测是最好的保护”以及“钼靶挽救生命”。可是，究竟有多少生命是被“挽救”了，而这又是处在什么样的情况下，付出了多少代价呢？乳腺癌一度是一种只能存在于人们轻言细语中的疾病，提升它在公众中的知晓度，这在某一个时期确实至关重要，强调筛查的益处同样如此。但不断增强的乳腺癌“意识”也带来了始料未及的后果，而它同样影响了妇女的健康。
Breast cancer in your breast doesn’t kill you; the disease becomes deadly when it metastasizes, spreading to other organs or the bones. Early detection is based on the theory, dating back to the late 19th century, that the disease progresses consistently, beginning with a single rogue cell, growing sequentially and at some invariable point making a lethal leap. Curing it, then, was assumed to be a matter of finding and cutting out a tumor before that metastasis happens.
生在你乳房里的乳腺癌并不会杀死你；只有当它开始转移，扩散到其他器官或骨头时，它才会成为致命的疾病。早期检测建立在起源于19世纪末的理论基础上，它认为乳腺癌是在持续进展，从一个淘气的细胞开始不断生长，到了某个阶段则会必然发起致命的一击。当时人们认为，要治愈这种疾病，需要的是在肿瘤转移前就发现并切除它。
The thing is, there was no evidence that the size of a tumor necessarily predicted whether it had spread. According to Robert Aronowitz, a professor of history and sociology of science at the University of Pennsylvania and the author of “Unnatural History: Breast Cancer and American Society,” physicians endorsed the idea anyway, partly out of wishful thinking, desperate to “do something” to stop a scourge against which they felt helpless. So in 1913, a group of them banded together, forming an organization (which eventually became the American Cancer Society) and alerting women, in a precursor of today’s mammography campaigns, that surviving cancer was within their power. By the late 1930s, they had mobilized a successful “Women’s Field Army” of more than 100,000 volunteers, dressed in khaki, who went door to door raising money for “the cause” and educating neighbors to seek immediate medical attention for “suspicious symptoms,” like lumps or irregular bleeding.
问题在于并没有证据表明，肿瘤的大小可以显示它是否已经扩散了。罗伯特·阿罗诺维兹(Robert Aronowitz)是宾夕维尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)科学史和科学社会学的教授，著有《不自然的历史：乳腺癌和美国社会》(Unnatural History: Breast Cancer and American Society)一书，他说，医生之所以赞同这种认知，部分在于他们一厢情愿的想法，他们绝望地想要“做点什么”来阻拦这种令自己深感无助的瘟疫。于是在1913年，一群医生团结在一起，成立了一个组织（它最终发展为美国癌症协会），发起运动来提醒妇女：她们可以凭借自己的力量从癌症中生存，这便是现在的钼靶筛查运动的前身。到了20世纪30年代末，医生们成功地发起了一支“妇女野战军”，10万多名志愿者穿着卡其裤，挨家挨户为“伟大事业”募集资金，同时教育邻居们在发现“可疑症状”，比如摸到肿块或出现不规则出血时，要立刻寻求医生帮助。
The campaign worked — sort of. More people did subsequently go to their doctors. More cancers were detected, more operations were performed and more patients survived their initial treatments. But the rates of women dying of breast cancer hardly budged. All those increased diagnoses were not translating into “saved lives.” That should have been a sign that some aspect of the early-detection theory was amiss. Instead, surgeons believed they just needed to find the disease even sooner.
这场运动取得了效果——算是如此吧。确实有更多女性去咨询了医生。确实有更多癌症得以发现，更多手术得以开展，也有更多病人在经历了最初的治疗后生存了下来。但死于乳腺癌的女性比例几乎没有任何改变。确诊率的提升并没有进而发展为“挽救生命”数量的提升。本应有迹象表明，早期检测理论缺失了什么东西。但医生们只是一厢情愿地认为，他们要做的是更早发现这种疾病。
Mammography promised to do just that. The first trials, begun in 1963, found that screening healthy women along with giving them clinical exams reduced breast-cancer death rates by about 25 percent. Although the decrease was almost entirely among women in their 50s, it seemed only logical that, eventually, screening younger (that is, finding cancer earlier) would yield even more impressive results. Cancer might even be cured.
钼靶筛查曾许诺做到这一点。从963年开始的早期试验发现，对健康女性进行筛查，配合临床测试，可将其因乳腺癌病亡的风险降低约25%。尽管如此显著的降幅几乎全部出于在50来岁的女性，但从逻辑上来推测，看起来筛查较年轻的女性（也就是更早发现癌症）最终将能产生更加令人瞩目的结果。癌症甚至可能被治愈。
That hopeful scenario could be realized, though, if women underwent annual mammography, and by the early 1980s, it is estimated that fewer than 20 percent of those eligible did. Nancy Brinker founded the Komen foundation in 1982 to boost those numbers, convinced that early detection and awareness of breast cancer could have saved her sister, Susan, who died of the disease at 36. Three years later, National Breast Cancer Awareness Month was born. The khaki-clad “soldiers” of the 1930s were soon displaced by millions of pink-garbed racers “for the cure” as well as legions of pink consumer products: pink buckets of chicken, pink yogurt lids, pink vacuum cleaners, pink dog leashes. Yet the message was essentially the same: breast cancer was a fearsome fate, but the good news was that through vigilance and early detection, surviving was within their control.
人们认为，如果妇女都能每年接受一次钼靶筛查，那么这将是有望达成的目标。而在20世纪80年代初，有人预测只有不到20%符合条件的女性接受了筛查。南希·布林克(Nancy Brinker)深信，对乳腺癌的早期检测和认识本可以挽救妹妹苏珊，不至于在36岁那年就死于乳腺癌，她在1982年创立了科曼基金会，目的是提升体检比例。三年后，全美乳腺癌意识月应运而生。20世纪30年代穿着卡其裤的“战士”们很快被上百万“为治愈而跑”、穿着粉色服饰的跑者，以及从粉色桶装鸡块、粉色酸奶盖子、到粉色吸尘器、粉色狗皮带的各类粉色商品所取代。但传递的信息别无二致：乳腺癌是一个可怕的宿命，但好消息是，通过保持警惕、早期检测，你可以靠自己的力量得以幸免。
By the turn of the new century, the pink ribbon was inescapable, and about 70 percent of women over 40 were undergoing screening. The annual mammogram had become a near-sacred rite, so precious that in 2009, when another federally financed independent task force reiterated that for most women, screening should be started at age 50 and conducted every two years, the reaction was not relief but fury. After years of bombardment by early-detection campaigns (consider: “If you haven’t had a mammogram, you need more than your breasts examined”), women, surveys showed, seemed to think screening didn’t just find breast cancer but actually prevented it.
到了世纪之交，粉红丝带已经四处可见，在40岁左右的女性中有约七成接受定期筛查。每年一次的钼靶检查成为一种几近神圣的仪式，它是如此珍贵，以致于在2009年，当另一个由联邦资助的独立特别小组重申，对于大部分女性，可以从50岁时开始接受筛查，每两年一次已经足矣时，得到的反应不是如释重负，而是暴怒。调查显示，女性接受了多年关于早期检测运动的狂轰滥炸（你们要谨记：“如果没有接受钼靶，那么一定要进行更频繁的乳房检查”），她们看来不仅认为筛查可以发现乳腺癌，还可以预防癌症。
At the time, the debate in Congress over health care reform was at its peak. Rather than engaging in discussion about how to maximize the benefits of screening while minimizing its harms, Republicans seized on the panel’s recommendations as an attempt at health care rationing. The Obama administration was accused of indifference to the lives of America’s mothers, daughters, sisters and wives. Secretary Kathleen Sebelius of the Department of Health and Human Services immediately backpedaled, issuing a statement that the administration’s policies on screening “remain unchanged.”
此时，国会在医保改革上的辩论已至高潮阶段。共和党人并没有参与如何将筛查的益处最大化、同时将害处最小化的讨论，而是试图利用国家卫生研究所专家组的建议来推动医保配给。奥巴马政府遭到指责，声称他们无视美国母亲、女儿、姐妹与妻子们的安危。美国卫生与公共服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)部长凯瑟琳·西贝利厄斯(Kathleen Sebelius)立刻临阵退缩，发表声明称，政府有关筛查的政策“始终如一”。
Even as American women embraced mammography, researchers’ understanding of breast cancer — including the role of early detection — was shifting. The disease, it has become clear, does not always behave in a uniform way. It’s not even one disease. There are at least four genetically distinct breast cancers. They may have different causes and definitely respond differently to treatment. Two related subtypes, luminal A and luminal B, involve tumors that feed on estrogen; they may respond to a five-year course of pills like tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors, which block cells’ access to that hormone or reduce its levels. In addition, a third type of cancer, called HER2-positive, produces too much of a protein called human epidermal growth factor receptor 2; it may be treatable with a targeted immunotherapy called Herceptin. The final type, basal-like cancer (often called “triple negative” because its growth is not fueled by the most common biomarkers for breast cancer — estrogen, progesterone and HER2), is the most aggressive, accounting for up to 20 percent of breast cancers. More prevalent among young and African-American women, it is genetically closer to ovarian cancer. Within those classifications, there are, doubtless, further distinctions, subtypes that may someday yield a wider variety of drugs that can isolate specific tumor characteristics, allowing for more effective treatment. But that is still years away.
虽然美国女性已经开始接受钼靶筛查，研究人员对乳腺癌的认识——包括早期筛查的意义——却在不断游移。研究已清楚发现，这种疾病并不会始终表现出统一的模式。它甚至不是同一种病。至少存在四种基因表达截然不同的乳腺癌。它们的病因或许不同，而对治疗的反应也极端不一样。两种相关的亚型，分别的Luminal A型和Luminal B型，肿瘤对雌性激素反应良好；在五年治疗期间服用像三苯氧胺(tamoxifen)或芳香化酶抑制剂的药物，从而阻滞细胞接触雌激素，或降低激素水平，治疗可取得一定效果。此外，第三种亚型称为HER2过表达型，它导致人体大量生成一种叫人表皮生长因子受体2的蛋白质；使用赫赛汀(Herceptin)这种靶向免疫药物可能有效。而最后一种亚型为基底细胞样乳腺癌（通常它被称为“三阴”乳腺癌，因为它在生长时并不会由三种乳腺癌最常见的生物标记物激活，这三种标记物分别是雌激素受体、孕激素受体和人表皮生长因子受体2），这是一种高侵袭性癌症，在乳腺癌中的比例高达20%。它在年轻女性和黑人女性中最为常见，从基因表达上来看更接近卵巢癌。而在上述亚型中，毫无疑问还存在着进一步的区分，有朝一日将会区分为更加独特的肿瘤特点，通过更丰富的药物实施更加有效的治疗。不过，还要多年才能实现这个目标。
Those early mammography trials were conducted before variations in cancer were recognized — before Herceptin, before hormonal therapy, even before the widespread use of chemotherapy. Improved treatment has offset some of the advantage of screening, though how much remains contentious. There has been about a 25 percent drop in breast-cancer death rates since 1990, and some researchers argue that treatment — not mammograms — may be chiefly responsible for that decline. They point to a study of three pairs of European countries with similar health care services and levels of risk: In each pair, mammograms were introduced in one country 10 to 15 years earlier than in the other. Yet the mortality data are virtually identical. Mammography didn’t seem to affect outcomes. In the United States, some researchers credit screening with a death-rate reduction of 15 percent — which holds steady even when screening is reduced to every other year. Gilbert Welch, a professor of medicine at the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice and co-author of last November’s New England Journal of Medicine study of screening-induced overtreatment, estimates that only 3 to 13 percent of women whose cancer was detected by mammograms actually benefited from the test.
早期钼靶筛查是在发现癌症亚型前引入的——它也早于赫赛汀、早于激素治疗，甚至早于化疗广泛使用。治疗的改进抵销了筛查的部分益处，至于究竟是多少，人们仍争执不下。自从1990年，乳腺癌的死亡率下降了约25%，一些研究人员认为治疗——而非筛查——对下降起到了主要作用。他们以一项研究为证据，这项研究比较了欧洲的三对国家，每一对国家的健康护理服务和健康风险级别都是类似的，而且其中一个国家都先于另一个国家10-15年引入了钼靶筛查。但死亡率却完全相同。筛查看来并没有影响最终结果。在美国，一些研究者将乳腺癌死亡率降低15%归功于筛查——即使筛查频率限于两年一次时，降幅仍保持稳定。吉尔伯特·韦尔奇(Gilbert Welch)是达特茅斯卫生政策与临床诊疗研究所(Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice)的医学教授，去年11月她与人合作的论文发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》(New England Journal of Medicine)上，这项有关筛查导致过度治疗的研究预计，在经由钼靶筛查发现癌症的女性中，仅有3%-13%确实因筛查获益。
If Welch is right, the test helps between 4,000 and 18,000 women annually. Not an insignificant number, particularly if one of them is you, yet perhaps less than expected given the 138,000 whose cancer has been diagnosed each year through screening. Why didn’t early detection work for more of them? Mammograms, it turns out, are not so great at detecting the most lethal forms of disease — like triple negative — at a treatable phase. Aggressive tumors progress too quickly, often cropping up between mammograms. Even catching them “early,” while they are still small, can be too late: they have already metastasized. That may explain why there has been no decrease in the incidence of metastatic cancer since the introduction of screening.
如果韦尔奇的判断准确，那么，筛查每年可以帮助4000到1.8万名美国女性。这个数字并非无足轻重，尤其是如果其中一个数字代表你的话，不过，考虑到每年有13.8万人的癌症经筛查得到确诊，这个数字似乎又低于我们的预期。为什么早期筛查没有帮助到更多人？现在人们知道，在可治疗的阶段早期发现最致命的乳腺癌——比如三阴乳腺癌方面，筛查的效果并不佳。侵袭性癌症进展太快了，往往会在两次筛查的间隙冒出来。就算能在“早期”、抢在肿物仍然较小时发现，恐怕仍然为时以晚：它们已经转移了。这或许可以解释，为什么引入筛查手段后，转移癌的发病率并未减少。
At the other end of the spectrum, mammography readily finds tumors that could be equally treatable if found later by a woman or her doctor; it also finds those that are so slow-moving they might never metastasize. As improbable as it sounds, studies have suggested that about a quarter of screening-detected cancers might have gone away on their own. For an individual woman in her 50s, then, annual mammograms may catch breast cancer, but they reduce the risk of dying of the disease over the next 10 years by only .07 percentage points — from .53 percent to .46 percent. Reductions for women in their 40s are even smaller, from .35 percent to .3 percent.
另一方面，钼靶检查发现的这一类肿瘤，如果病人及医生较晚发现，同样是可以治疗的；此外，钼靶还能发现那些生长极为缓慢的肿瘤，这些肿块可能永远不会转移。听起来有点不可思议，可研究确实已经发现，大约四分之一经钼靶筛查发现的癌症，也许本可能自动消失。对于50来岁的女性来说，每年一次的筛查也许能发现乳腺癌，但只能将未来10年死于该病的危险性缩小0.07个百分点——从0.53%降至0.46%。而40多岁女性的死亡机率降幅则更小——从0.35%降至0.3%。
If screening’s benefits have been overstated, its potential harms are little discussed. According to a survey of randomized clinical trials involving 600,000 women around the world, for every 2,000 women screened annually over 10 years, one life is prolonged but 10 healthy women are given diagnoses of breast cancer and unnecessarily treated, often with therapies that themselves have life-threatening side effects. (Tamoxifen, for instance, carries small risks of stroke, blood clots and uterine cancer; radiation and chemotherapy weaken the heart; surgery, of course, has its hazards.)
如果说，钼靶筛查的益处被夸大了，那么，它的潜在伤害则至今甚少被人拿出来讨论。根据一项涉及全球60万名女性的随机临床试验调查，在10年里，每2000个进行年度筛查的女性里，有1人的生命得以延长，而同时却有10个健康女性被诊断为乳腺癌并接受不必要的治疗，而且治疗本身可能产生威及生命的副作用。（比方说服用三苯氧胺存在着发生脑卒中、血栓和子宫癌的轻微风险；放疗和化疗会削弱心脏功能；而手术自然存在各种风险。）
Many of those women are told they have something called ductal carcinoma in situ (D.C.I.S.), or “Stage Zero” cancer, in which abnormal cells are found in the lining of the milk-producing ducts. Before universal screening, D.C.I.S. was rare. Now D.C.I.S. and the less common lobular carcinoma in situ account for about a quarter of new breast-cancer cases — some 60,000 a year. In situ cancers are more prevalent among women in their 40s. By 2020, according to the National Institutes of Health’s estimate, more than one million American women will be living with a D.C.I.S. diagnosis.
这些女性中，有很多人得知她们患的是所谓乳管原位癌(D.C.I.S.)，又叫零期癌，她们的乳腺管中出现了不规则的细胞。在普遍实行筛查前，发现乳管原位癌的可能性微乎其微。而现在，乳管原位癌和较少见的乳腺小叶原位癌占到了新确诊乳腺癌病例的四分之一——每年约6万宗。原位癌在40来岁的女性中最为常见。据美国国家卫生研究所预计，到2020年，将有超过100万美国女性被诊断患有乳管原位癌。
D.C.I.S. survivors are celebrated at pink-ribbon events as triumphs of early detection: theirs was an easily treatable disease with a nearly 100 percent 10-year survival rate. The thing is, in most cases (estimates vary widely between 50 and 80 percent) D.C.I.S. will stay right where it is — “in situ” means “in place.” Unless it develops into invasive cancer, D.C.I.S. lacks the capacity to spread beyond the breast, so it will not become lethal. Autopsies have shown that as many as 14 percent of women who died of something other than breast cancer unknowingly had D.C.I.S.
乳管原位癌的生存者在各类粉红丝带运动中欢庆早期筛查的成就：她们所患的疾病非常好治，10年生存率将近100%。问题在于，大多数乳管原位癌（预计在50%到80%之间）并不会转移——“原位”指的就是“原封不动”。除非乳管原位癌病情发展为侵袭性癌症，否则，它并不具备扩散到乳房以外的能力，因此不可能致命。尸检结果显示，在死于乳腺癌以外疾病的女性中，有高达14%的人患有此前并未诊断出的乳管原位癌。
There is as yet no sure way to tell which D.C.I.S. will turn into invasive cancer, so every instance is treated as if it is potentially life-threatening. That needs to change, according to Laura Esserman, director of the Carol Franc Buck Breast Care Center at the University of California, San Francisco. Esserman is campaigning to rename D.C.I.S. by removing its big “C” in an attempt to put it in perspective and tamp down women’s fear. “D.C.I.S. is not cancer,” she explained. “It’s a risk factor. For many D.C.I.S. lesions, there is only a 5 percent chance of invasive cancer developing over 10 years. That’s like the average risk of a 62-year-old. We don’t do heart surgery when someone comes in with high cholesterol. What are we doing to these people?” In Britain, where women are screened every three years beginning at 50, the government recently decided to revise its brochure on mammography to include a more thorough discussion of overdiagnosis, something it previously dispatched with in one sentence. That may or may not change anyone’s mind about screening, but at least there is a fuller explanation of the trade-offs.
目前人们尚不确定哪种乳管原位癌会恶化为侵袭性癌症，所以每宗确诊病例都被当成有可能威胁生命的病症对待。但在劳拉·埃瑟曼(Laura Esserman)看来，这种情况需要改变。埃瑟曼是加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)卡罗尔·弗兰克·巴克乳房保健中心(Carol Franc Buck Breast Care Center)主任。她正在发起运动，呼吁去掉乳管原位癌中的“癌”字，好更有分寸地对待这种疾病，并消除女性的恐惧感。“乳管原位癌并非癌症，”她解释说，“它是一种风险因素。在众多乳管原位癌中，只有5%会在10年间发展为侵袭性癌症。这跟62岁老人的平均患癌风险概率相同。在人们胆固醇水平过高时，我们并不会给他们动心脏手术。那么，我们为什么要这样对待乳管原位癌病人？”在英国，女性在年满50岁之后，要每三年接受一次钼靶筛查，政府最近决定修订有关钼靶筛查的宣传册，增加有关过度诊断的更为深入的探讨，而此前这方面内容是一笔带过的。这种改变，可能会改变人们对筛查的看法，也可能不会，但它至少对筛查的利弊进入了更全面的解释。
In this country, the huge jump in D.C.I.S. diagnoses potentially transforms some 50,000 healthy people a year into “cancer survivors " and contributes to the larger sense that breast cancer is “everywhere,” happening to “everyone.” That, in turn, stokes women’s anxiety about their personal vulnerability, increasing demand for screening — which, inevitably, results in even more diagnoses of D.C.I.S. Meanwhile, D.C.I.S. patients themselves are subject to the pain, mutilation, side effects and psychological trauma of anyone with cancer and may never think of themselves as fully healthy again.
在美国，乳管原位癌的诊断率激增，这可能导致每年有约5万健康女性的身份被改写，成为了“癌症生存者”，同时它也对乳腺癌“无处不在”，“每个人”都可能罹患该病的意识贡献良多。而这反过来又激发了女性对个人不堪一击的焦虑感，增加了对筛查的需求——而这不可避免地导致了更多乳管原位癌被确诊。与此同时，原位癌病人在承受着痛苦、肉体的伤害、副作用，以及任何癌症病人都会经历的心理打击，她们也许永远不会再把自己当成是健康人。
Yet who among them would dare do things differently? Which of them would have skipped that fateful mammogram? As Robert Aronowitz, the medical historian, told me: “When you’ve oversold both the fear of cancer and the effectiveness of our prevention and treatment, even people harmed by the system will uphold it, saying, ‘It’s the only ritual we have, the only thing we can do to prevent ourselves from getting cancer.’ ”
可是在她们中间，又有谁敢做不一样的事情？谁胆敢不去做如此重要的钼靶筛查？正如医学史专家罗伯特·亚伦诺维兹(Robert Aronowitz)对我说的那样：“当人们既领教了关于癌症的恐怖，又听说了预防与治疗的有效性时，就连受到这种体系伤害的人也会支持它，表示，‘这是我们拥有的唯一的仪式，除了它，我们再没有其他办法来免遭癌症伤害。’”
What if I had skipped my first mammogram and found my tumor a few years later in the shower? It’s possible that by then I would have needed chemotherapy, an experience I’m profoundly thankful to have missed. Would waiting have affected my survival? Probably not, but I’ll never know for sure; no woman truly can. Either way, the odds were in my favor: my good fortune was not just that my cancer was caught early but also that it appeared to have been treatable.
如果我当初没有照钼靶，几年后在洗澡时才发现自己身上的肿瘤，结果会怎样？或许到了那时候，我需要接受化疗，谢天谢地，我躲过了这种经历。而这会影响我的生存机率吗？也许不会，但我永远都不可能确切地知道；也没有哪个人真的知道。无论如何，概率对我有利：我的运气很好，不仅仅在早期发现了癌症，而且这种癌症貌似得到了治疗。
Note that word “appeared”: one of breast cancer’s nastier traits is that even the lowest-grade caught-it-early variety can recur years — decades — after treatment. And mine did.
注意这个词：“貌似”。乳腺癌讨厌就讨厌在这一点上，哪怕是最早期、恶性最小的亚型，也可能在治疗几年——甚至几十年后——复发。在我身上，这种事情就发生了。
Last summer, nine months after my most recent mammogram, while I was getting ready for bed and chatting with my husband, my fingers grazed something small and firm beneath the scar on my left breast. Just like that, I passed again through the invisible membrane that separates the healthy from the ill.
去年夏天，距我最近一次钼靶筛查九个月后，我躺在床上正在和丈夫聊天，这时，我的手指在左胸伤疤下面摸到了什么，它小小的，硬硬的。就这样，我再次迈过了将健康与疾病隔绝开的那道看不见的幕布。
This latest tumor was as tiny and as pokey as before, unlikely to have spread. Obviously, though, it had to go. Since a lumpectomy requires radiation, and you can’t irradiate the same body part twice, my only option this round was a mastectomy. I was also prescribed tamoxifen to cut my risk of metastatic disease from 20 percent to 12. Again, that means I should survive, but there are no guarantees; I won’t know for sure whether I am cured until I die of something else — hopefully many decades from now, in my sleep, holding my husband’s hand, after a nice dinner with the grandchildren.
新发的这处肿瘤跟原来的那个一样小，已经扩散的可能性不大。不过很明显，必须切了它。由于肿瘤切除术需要接受放疗，而你不可能在同一处身体部位进行两次放疗，所以这一次，我唯一的选择是乳腺切除术。此外医生还给我开了三苯氧胺，好将癌症转移的风险从20%降到12%。同样，这意味着我将活下来，但可能性并非百分之百；只有在我因其他原因去世时，我才能确信自己有没有得以痊愈——希望那是几十年以后的事情了，最好我能和孙辈们吃顿美好的晚餐，握住丈夫的手，在睡梦中离去。
My first instinct this round was to have my other breast removed as well — I never wanted to go through this again. My oncologist argued against it. The tamoxifen would lower my risk of future disease to that of an average woman, he said. Would an average woman cut off her breasts? I could have preventive surgery if I wanted to, he added, but it would be a psychological decision, not a medical one.
这次我的第一反应是希望把我右侧乳腺也切除——我再也不想经历这样的事情了。我的肿瘤大夫对此表示反对。他说，三苯氧胺将降低普通女性未来复发的风险。而一个普通的女性可能切掉双侧乳腺吗？他又进一步说，如果我坚持，他会给我做预防性手术，但这不是基于医学的决定，而是基于心理。
I weighed the options as my hospital date approached. Average risk, after all, is not zero. Could I live with that? Part of me still wanted to extinguish all threat. I have a 9-year-old daughter; I would do anything — I need to do everything — to keep from dying. Yet, if death was the issue, the greatest danger wasn’t my other breast. It is that, despite treatment and a good prognosis, the cancer I’ve already had has metastasized. Preventive mastectomy wouldn’t change that; nor would it entirely eliminate the possibility of new disease, because there’s always some tissue left behind.
随着住院日期临近，我在心中权衡着手头的选项。平均风险毕竟不是零。我能接受这一点吗？我仍要有点想要斩断所有威胁。我的女儿才九岁；我会做任何事情——我需要做任何事情——但求自己能活下来。可是，如果考虑到死亡这个话题，最大的威胁并不是我的另一侧乳房；而在于，就算得到了治疗，而且预后良好，但我已经患上的癌症是不是已经转移了。预防性的乳腺切除术并不能改变这一点；它也不可能完全消除复发的可能性，因为我不可能切掉身上所有的器官。
What did doing “everything” mean, anyway? There are days when I skip sunscreen. I don’t exercise as much as I should. I haven’t given up aged Gouda despite my latest cholesterol count; I don’t get enough calcium. And, oh, yeah, my house is six blocks from a fault line. Is living with a certain amount of breast-cancer risk really so different? I decided to take my doctor’s advice, to do only what had to be done.
况且，什么又是“任何事情”呢？有时候我会忘了擦防晒霜。我没有像要求的那样常常锻炼。我没有放弃吃成熟的高达奶酪，虽然近来我的胆固醇水平很高。我也没摄取足够的钙质。还有，噢，对了，我们家离一条地震断层线仅有六个街区之遥。那么，面对一定的乳腺癌风险继续生活，真的有那么不一样吗？我决定听取医生的建议，只做应当做的治疗。
I assumed my dilemma was unusual, specific to the anxiety of having been too often on the wrong side of statistics. But it turned out that thousands of women now consider double mastectomies after low-grade cancer diagnoses. According to Todd Tuttle, chief of the division of surgical oncology at the University of Minnesota and lead author of a study on prophylactic mastectomy published in The Journal of Clinical Oncology, there was a 188 percent jump between 1998 and 2005 among women given new diagnoses of D.C.I.S. in one breast — a risk factor for cancer — who opted to have both breasts removed just in case. Among women with early-stage invasive disease (like mine), the rates rose about 150 percent. Most of those women did not have a genetic predisposition to cancer. Tuttle speculated they were basing their decisions not on medical advice but on an exaggerated sense of their risk of getting a new cancer in the other breast. Women, according to another study, believed that risk to be more than 30 percent over 10 years when it was actually closer to 5 percent.
我本以为我面对的两难境地并不多见，这是在我遇到的问题总是跟统计数据相悖时产生的焦虑感所致。但后来我发现，有成千上万女性在确诊患有恶性较低的癌症后，考虑接受双侧乳腺切除术。托德·塔特尔(Todd Tuttle)是明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)肿瘤外科系的系主任，他作为第一作者撰写的一份有关预防性乳腺切除术的论文发表在《临床肿瘤学学刊》(The Journal of Clinical Oncology)，文中提到，从1998年到2005年，在新确诊患有单侧乳房乳管原位癌——这种病只是患癌的危险因素——的女性中，选择切除双侧乳腺以防万一的比例上涨了188%。而在患早期侵袭性疾病的女性（比如我）中，做出该决定的比例上涨约150%。而在这些女性中，大部分并没有癌症的遗传易感性。塔特尔推测，这些女性做出决定的基础并非医学建议，而是对另一侧乳房患癌症风险的过度焦虑。另一项研究表明，女性相信癌症在未来10年里复发的可能性会达到超过30%，而实际机率只有将近5%。
It wasn’t so long ago that women fought to keep their breasts after a cancer diagnosis, lobbying surgeons to forgo radical mastectomies for equally effective lumpectomies with radiation. Why had that flipped? I pondered the question as I browsed through the “Stories of Hope” on the American Cancer Society’s Web site. I came across an appealing woman in a pink T-shirt, smiling as she held out a white-frosted cupcake bedecked with a pink candle. In a first-person narrative, she said that she began screening in her mid-30s because she had fibrocystic breast disease. At 41, she was given a diagnosis of D.C.I.S., which was treated with lumpectomy and radiation. “I felt lucky to have caught it early,” she said, though she added that she was emotionally devastated by the experience. She continued screenings and went on to have multiple operations to remove benign cysts. By the time she learned she had breast cancer again, she was looking at a fifth operation on her breasts. So she opted to have both of them removed, a decision she said she believed to be both logical and proactive.
就在并不久远的过去，女性曾在被确诊患乳腺癌时力争要保住乳房，游说外科医生放弃激进的乳房根治术，改用同样有限的乳腺肿瘤切除术，同时辅以放疗。为什么出现了这么大的转变？我一边沉思，一边浏览着美国肿瘤协会(American Cancer Society)网站中“希望的故事”版块。我发现了一个很有魅力的女人，她穿着粉红色的T恤，手中托着一个杯子蛋糕，蛋糕上洒着白色糖霜、插了一根粉红色蜡烛。她使用第一人称，讲述自己在35岁左右开始接受筛查，因为她患有乳房纤维囊肿。41岁那年，她确诊患上了乳管原位癌，因此接受了乳腺肿瘤切除术和放疗。“能早期发现，我感觉自己很幸运，”她说。但她又补充说自己因这段遭遇，心情大受打击。她继续坚持接受筛查，并通过两次手术切除了良性囊肿。在她得知自己的乳腺癌复发时，她的乳房将要接受第五次手术。于是她决定切除双侧乳房，她说，她相信这个决定既合乎逻辑，同时又具有前瞻性。
I found myself thinking of an alternative way to describe what happened. Fibrocystic breast disease does not predict cancer, though distinguishing between benign and malignant tumors can be difficult, increasing the potential for unnecessary biopsies. Starting screening in her 30s exposed this woman to years of excess medical radiation — one of the few known causes of breast cancer. Her D.C.I.S., a condition detected almost exclusively through mammography, quite likely never would become life-threatening, yet it transformed her into a cancer survivor, subjecting her to surgery and weeks of even more radiation. By the time of her second diagnosis, she was so distraught that she amputated both of her breasts to restore a sense of control.
我不禁想要换一种方式来描述发生的事情。乳房纤维囊肿并不能预示癌症，但由于良性与恶性的肿块难以区分，这增加了不必要的活检的可能性。她在30多岁时就开始接受筛查，这导致她受到了几年不必要的医疗辐射——而这是乳腺癌的几种已知病因之一。她随后患乳管原位癌，这种症状几乎只能通过钼靶检查出来，它几乎完全不可能威及生命，可却令她变成了癌症生存者，需要接受手术和几周甚至更长时间的放疗。等到她第二次得癌的诊断书时，她悲痛欲绝，为了换回一点自主权，她决定切掉双侧的乳腺。
Should this woman be hailed as a survivor or held up as a cautionary tale? Was she empowered by awareness or victimized by it? The fear of cancer is legitimate: how we manage that fear, I realized — our responses to it, our emotions around it — can be manipulated, packaged, marketed and sold, sometimes by the very forces that claim to support us. That can color everything from our perceptions of screening to our understanding of personal risk to our choices in treatment. “You could attribute the rise in mastectomies to a better understanding of genetics or better reconstruction techniques,” Tuttle said, “but those are available in Europe, and you don’t see that mastectomy craze there. There is so much ‘awareness’ about breast cancer in the U.S. I’ve called it breast-cancer overawareness. It’s everywhere. There are pink garbage trucks. Women are petrified.”
这位女士应当被人奉为幸存者抑或是一则警世寓言？她是因为充分知晓拥有了权利，还是反而因此成为牺牲品？对癌症的恐惧是合理的，但我意识到，我们如何去管理这种恐惧——对它的反应，围绕它产生的情绪——则可以受到操控、包装、营销和贩卖，有时控制它的甚至就是声称支持我们的力量。它可以粉饰一切，从我们对筛查的认识，到对个人风险的理解，再到对治疗的选择。“你可以将乳腺切除术的数量上升归功于对遗传更好的理解，或者是更出色的乳房重建技术，”塔特尔说：“但这些手段在欧洲同样也有，但那里并没有出现乳腺切除术的狂潮。在美国，对于乳腺癌的‘意识’实在是太多了，我称它叫乳腺癌‘过度意识’。它俯拾皆是。到处都是粉色的垃圾车。女人们都被吓傻了。”
“Nearly 40,000 women and 400 men die every year of breast cancer,” Lynn Erdman, vice president of community health at Komen, told me. “Until that number dissipates, we don’t think there’s enough pink.”
“每年有近4万名女性和400名男性死于乳腺癌，”柯曼健康社区的副总裁林恩·埃德曼(Lynn Erdman)告诉我，“在这个数字消散前，我们认为‘粉’得还不够。”
I was sitting in a conference room at the headquarters of Susan G. Komen, near the Galleria mall in Dallas. Komen is not the country’s largest cancer charity — that would be the American Cancer Society. It is, however, the largest breast-cancer organization. And although Komen’s image was tarnished last year by its attempt to defund a Planned Parenthood screening program, its name remains virtually synonymous with breast-cancer advocacy. With its dozens of races “for the cure” and some 200 corporate partnerships, it may be the most successful charity ever at branding a disease; its relentless marketing has made the pink ribbon one of the most recognized logos of our time. The ribbon has come to symbolize both fear of the disease and the hope it can be defeated. It’s a badge of courage for the afflicted, an expression of solidarity by the concerned. It promises continual progress toward a cure through donations, races, volunteerism. It indicates community. And it offers corporations a seemingly fail-safe way to signal good will toward women, even if, in a practice critics call “pinkwashing,” the products they produce are linked to the disease or other threats to public health. Having football teams don rose-colored cleats, for instance, can counteract bad press over how the N.F.L. handles accusations against players of rape or domestic violence. Chevron’s donations to California Komen affiliates may help deflect what Cal OSHA called its “willful violations” of safety that led to a huge refinery fire last year in a Bay Area neighborhood.
此时，我坐在苏珊·G·柯曼乳腺癌基金会的总部会议室里，这里离达拉斯的盖勒瑞(Galleria)商场不远。柯曼基金会并非全美最大的癌症慈善组织——那应该是美国癌症协会。不过，它是美国最大的乳腺癌机构。而且，尽管柯曼基金会的形象在去年因其试图从一家计划生育筛查项目撤资而蒙受影响，但这个名字事实上仍然几乎是乳腺癌倡导机构的代名词。它主办了几十次“为根治”而赛跑活动，并与约200家公司结成伙伴关系，可能是有史以来在行销疾病方面最成功的慈善团体；通过柯曼基金会持续不懈的推广，粉红丝带已经成为我们这个时代最受认可的标志之一。粉红丝带既象征着对乳腺癌的恐惧，同时也代表着战胜它的希望。对于受病痛折磨的人，它是勇气的勋章；对于关注者，它是同仇敌忾的表现。它通过筹款、赛跑、义工活动来承诺疾病有朝一日将会得以根治。它象征着守望相助。同时，它还给公司们提供了一种貌似不可能失败、批评者称之为“刷粉”的方法来向女性表达善意，哪怕这些公司的产品本身就与乳腺癌有联系，或者对公共卫生构成威胁。比方说，如果美式橄榄球队穿上了玫瑰粉色的球鞋，这可以抵销掉美国橄榄球联盟(N.F.L.)在处理球员强奸或家暴案不当时产生的恶评。雪佛龙(Chevron)向柯曼基金会加州分部捐款，也可以有助于扭转该公司的不良形象，在去年，公司在湾区的一家大型炼油厂失火，加州职业安全卫生署(Cal OSHA)称其是“故意危害”安全。
More than anything else, though, the ribbon reminds women that every single one of us is vulnerable to breast cancer, and our best protection is annual screening. Despite the fact that Komen trademarked the phrase “for the cure,” only 16 percent of the $472 million raised in 2011, the most recent year for which financial reports are available, went toward research. At $75 million, that’s still enough to give credence to the claim that Komen has been involved in every major breast-cancer breakthrough for the past 29 years. Still, the sum is dwarfed by the $231 million the foundation spent on education and screening.
不过，相比其他事物，粉红丝带最容易让女性产生的联想，是我们中的每个人面对乳腺癌都脆弱不堪，而最佳保护措施就是每年接受一次筛查。尽管柯曼注册了“为根治”一词，但在2011年（这是有据可查的最近的财年报告）该机构募集到了4.72亿美元中，但只有其中的16%用于科研。以7500万美元这个数字来看，柯曼在最近29年以来涉及乳腺癌研究各个重大突破的断言仍然成立；不过，它跟基金会用于教育和筛查的2.31亿美元相比，就实在是相形见绌。
Though Komen now acknowledges the debate over screening on its Web site, the foundation has been repeatedly accused of overstating mammography’s benefits while dismissing its risks. Steve Woloshin, a colleague of Welch’s at Dartmouth and co-author of the Not So Stories column in The British Medical Journal, points to a recent Komen print ad that reads: “The five-year survival rate for breast cancer when caught early is 98 percent. When it’s not? It decreases to 23 percent.” Woloshin called that willfully deceptive. The numbers are accurate, but five-year survival rates are a misleading measure of success, skewed by screening itself. Mammography finds many cancers that never need treating and that are, by definition, survivable. Meanwhile, some women with lethal disease may seem to live longer because their cancer was found earlier, but in truth, it’s only their awareness of themselves as ill that has been extended. “Imagine a group of 100 women who received diagnoses of breast cancer because they felt a breast lump at age 67, all of whom die at age 70,” Woloshin said. “Five-year survival for this group is 0 percent. Now imagine the same women were screened, given their diagnosis three years earlier, at age 64, but treatment doesn’t work and they still die at age 70. Five-year survival is now 100 percent, even though no one lived a second longer.”
尽管柯曼基金会现在在它的网页上承认了关于筛查的争论，但不断有人指责基金会夸大了钼靶的益处，同时对其危害一笑置之。史蒂夫·沃罗辛(Steve Woloshin)是韦尔奇在达特茅斯的同事，也是其发表在《新英格兰医学期刊》的《Not So Stories》栏目的合作者，他指出了柯曼基金会近期的一则纸媒广告，读道：“早期发现乳腺癌，五年期生存率可达98%。如果没有发现呢？数字将降到23%。”沃罗辛声称这种说法有有意蒙骗。数字本身是准确的，但五年期生存率是带有误导性的成功依据，受到了筛查本身的歪曲。钼靶发现的癌症中，有大量永远不需要治疗，因此按照定义属于高存活性的疾病。与此同时，一些患高致死疾病的女性貌似是因为癌症早期发现，因此延长了存活时间，但事实上，得以延长的只是她们意识到自己患病的时间。“想象一下，有一组共100人的女性，她们在67岁时通过自查，发现了乳腺癌，这组女性全部在70岁时去世，”沃尔辛解释说：“对于这组女性，五年期存活率为0%。而同样的这组女性接受了筛查，提前三年，在64岁时得到了确诊，但治疗无效，同样在70岁时死亡。而她们的五年期生存率就达到100%，尽管事实上没有人多存活了一秒钟。”
When I asked Chandini Portteus, vice president of research, evaluation and scientific programs at Komen, in January why the foundation continued to use that statistic, she didn’t so much explain as sidestep. “I don’t think Komen meant to mislead,” she said. “We know that mammography certainly isn’t perfect. We also know that it’s what we have and that it’s important in diagnosing breast cancer.” (The statistic was subsequently removed from its Web site.)
今年1月，我问柯曼有关研究、评估和科学项目的副总裁钱迪妮·鲍图斯(Chandini Portteus)，为什么基金会继续使用这个数据，她闪烁其辞，没有做过多解释，“我认为柯曼并不是有意误导，”她说：“我们知道钼靶筛查肯定不会是十全十美的。我们也知道这是我们手头最有力的工具，在诊断乳腺癌方面十分重要。”（随后，这项数据从柯曼的网页上删除了。）
In “Pink Ribbon Blues,” Gayle Sulik, a sociologist and founder of the Breast Cancer Consortium, credits Komen (as well as the American Cancer Society and National Breast Cancer Awareness Month) with raising the profile of the disease, encouraging women to speak about their experience and transforming “victims” into “survivors.” Komen, she said, has also distributed more than $1 billion to research and support programs. At the same time, the function of pink-ribbon culture — and Komen in particular — has become less about eradication of breast cancer than self-perpetuation: maintaining the visibility of the disease and keeping the funds rolling in. “You have to look at the agenda for each program involved,” Sulik said. “If the goal is eradication of breast cancer, how close are we to that? Not very close at all. If the agenda is awareness, what is it making us aware of? That breast cancer exists? That it’s important? ‘Awareness’ has become narrowed until it just means ‘visibility.’ And that’s where the movement has failed. That’s where it’s lost its momentum to move further.”
在《粉红丝带布鲁斯》(Pink Ribbon Blues)一书中，社会学家、乳腺癌联盟(Breast Cancer Consortium)创始人盖尔·苏里克(Gayle Sulik)赞许柯曼（以及美国癌症协会和全美乳腺癌意识月）提高了公众对乳腺癌的注意，鼓励妇女公开讨论个人的经历，同时将“受害人”的形象一举转变为“幸存者”。她说，柯曼基金会已经向研究和支持项目投放了超过10亿美元。与此同时，粉红丝带文化的功能——特别是柯曼基金会本身——已经较少与消灭乳腺癌有关，而更多地放在了持久发展上：保持对该病的宣传力度，同时持续吸引募捐。“你必须了解所有相关项目的议事日程，”苏里克说：“如果目标是消灭乳腺癌，我们离它究竟有多近？实在不是很近。如果目标是提高意识，那么，是什么令大家对这种疾病有所了解？是指出乳腺癌仍然存在吗？是说这种疾病很重要吗？一旦‘意识’仅仅意味着‘可见’，它的范围就缩小了，而围绕它的运动将就此失败，失去了继续前行的动力。”
Before the pink ribbon, awareness as an end in itself was not the default goal for health-related causes. Now you’d be hard-pressed to find a major illness without a logo, a wearable ornament and a roster of consumer-product tie-ins. Heart disease has its red dress, testicular cancer its yellow bracelet. During “Movember” — a portmanteau of “mustache” and “November” — men are urged to grow their facial hair to “spark conversation and raise awareness” of prostate cancer (another illness for which early detection has led to large-scale overtreatment) and testicular cancer. “These campaigns all have a similar superficiality in terms of the response they require from the public,” said Samantha King, associate professor of kinesiology and health at Queen’s University in Ontario and author of"Pink Ribbons, Inc.” “They’re divorced from any critique of health care policy or the politics of funding biomedical research. They reinforce a single-issue competitive model of fund-raising. And they whitewash illness: we’re made ‘aware’ of a disease yet totally removed from the challenging and often devastating realities of its sufferers.”
在开展粉红丝带运动前，“意识”本身并非健康相关运动的预设目标。而现在，你很难发现一种不带标志、没有推出可穿戴配饰、没有捆绑一系列消费品的重病。心脏病有了配套的红衣，睾丸癌有了黄色腕带。在“胡子月”(Movember)——这个词结合了“胡子”和“11月”两个词——组织者鼓励男人蓄须，好在前列腺癌（这是另一种在早期筛查方面引发了大规模过度治疗的疾病）和睾丸癌方面“引发话题，促进认识”。萨曼莎·金(Samantha King)是加拿大安大略省皇后大学(Queen’s University)运动机能学与健康学的助理教授，也是《粉红丝带公司》(Pink Ribbons, Inc.)一书作者，她说：“在从公众方面引发的反响方面，这些运动都有着相似的肤浅性。它们与对卫生保健政策方面的批评，与资助生物医学研究的策略完全割裂开来。它们强调的是募款的单一议题竞争模式。同时它们粉饰了疾病：我们做的是让人‘意识’到这个疾病，但在这个过程中彻底远离各种是非，而且往往要摧毁患者的现实。”
I recalled the dozens of news releases I received during last October’s National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, an occasion I observed in bed while recovering from my mastectomy. There was the one from Komen urging me to make a “curemitment” to ending breast cancer by sharing a “message about early detection or breast self-awareness that resonates with you”; the one about the town painting itself pink for “awareness”; the one from a Web site called Pornhub that would donate a penny to a breast-cancer charity for every 30 views of its “big-” or “small-breast” videos.
去年10月我接受了乳腺切除术，康复期间观察了“全美乳腺癌意识月”的活动，我还记得自己收到了几十份新闻稿。其中一份来自柯曼基金会，它鼓励我通过分享“有关早期筛查信息或乳腺自我意识对你产生的共鸣”，“立誓要根治”并终结乳腺癌；还有一份新闻稿，说的是全城各处将刷成粉色，好激发“意识”；还有一封来自一个名叫“Pornhub”（色情中心）的网站，表示每得到30人次观看网站的“大胸”或“小胸”视频，将向乳腺癌慈善团体捐献1美分。
Then there are the groups going after the new hot “awareness” demographic: young women. “Barbells for Boobies” was sponsoring weight-lifting fund-raisers to pay for mammograms for women under 40. Keep A Breast (known for its sassy “I ♥ Boobies” bracelets) urges girls to perform monthly self-exams as soon as they begin menstruating. Though comparatively small, these charities raise millions of dollars a year — Keep A Breast alone raised $3.6 million in 2011. Such campaigns are often inspired by the same heartfelt impulse that motivated Nancy Brinker to start Komen: the belief that early detection could have saved a loved one, the desire to make meaning of a tragedy.
此外，还有团体追逐着新的大热“认知”群体：年轻女性。“Barbells for Boobies”（为乳房举杠铃）资助的是参加举重的募款者，项目为40岁以下女性支付钼靶筛查费用。“Keep A Breast”（以其时髦的“我♥乳房”腕带闻名）鼓励女孩子们在刚开始自慰时，就每月进行一次自查。这些团体虽然规模相对较小，但每年也可募集上千万美元——单是“Keep A Breast”就在2011年筹集了360万美元。这类运动所受到的启发，与当年南希·布林克创办柯曼基金会拥有同样真诚的初衷：那就是对于早期筛查本可以挽救自己深爱之人的信念；以及从悲剧中找寻意义的愿望。
Yet there’s no reason for anyone — let alone young girls — to perform monthly self-exams. Many breast-cancer organizations stopped pushing it more than a decade ago, when a 12-year randomized study involving more than 266,000 Chinese women, published in The Journal of the National Cancer Institute, found no difference in the number of cancers discovered, the stage of disease or mortality rates between women who were given intensive instruction in monthly self-exams and women who were not, though the former group was subject to more biopsies. The upside was that women were pretty good at finding their own cancers either way.
可是，任何人都没有理由每月进行一次乳房自查，年轻女性就更不用说了。很多乳腺癌组织早在10多年前就已经不再力推这种作法，当时，一项为期12年、涉及超过26.6万名中国女性的随机试验结果发表在了《美国国立癌症研究所杂志》(The Journal of the National Cancer Institute)上，研究比较了两组女性，前者接受了每月进行一次自查的严格指引，后者没有，结果发现在确诊癌症病例、癌症分期和死亡率方面，两组都没有任何区别，不过前者接受的活检次数更多。研究发现了一个正面结论，那就是无论是否接受指引，女性在自行发现乳腺癌方面都蛮在行的。
Beyond misinformation and squandered millions, I wondered about the wisdom of educating girls to be aware of their breasts as precancerous organs. If decades of pink-ribboned early-detection campaigns have distorted the fears of middle-aged women, exaggerated their sense of personal risk, encouraged extreme responses to even low-level diagnoses, all without significantly changing outcomes, what will it mean to direct that message to a school-aged crowd?
除了错误的信息和浪费的巨资，我也在想，教育女孩们意识到自己的双乳是癌前病变器官，这样做是否明智？如果说几十年来的粉红丝带早期筛查运动已经扭曲了中年女性的恐慌，夸大了她们对个人危险的意识，鼓励其对早期癌症诊断做出极端反应，而且这一切都未带来任何显著的成效，那么，向仍在校的群体传递这些信息又有什么意义？
Young women do get breast cancer — I was one of them. Even so, breast cancer among the young, especially the very young, is rare. The median age of diagnosis in this country is 61. The median age of death is 68. The chances of a 20-year-old woman getting breast cancer in the next 10 years is about .06 percent, roughly the same as for a man in his 70s. And no one is telling him to “check your boobies.”
年轻女性确实会得乳腺癌——我就是其中一个。即使如此，在年轻女性，尤其是少女中，患乳腺癌的机率微乎其微。美国确诊乳腺癌的年龄中位数是61岁。死亡年龄中位数为68岁。一个20岁的姑娘在接下来的10年里患乳腺癌的风险约为0.06%，这跟男人在70多岁时患乳腺癌的机率基本相同。可是，没人会跟老男人说，“查查你的乳房。”
“It’s tricky,” said Susan Love, a breast surgeon and president of the Dr. Susan Love Research Foundation. “Some young women get breast cancer, and you don’t want them to ignore it, but educating kids earlier — that bothers me. Here you are, especially in high school or junior high, just getting to know to your body. To do this search-and-destroy mission where your job is to find cancer that’s lurking even though the chance is minuscule to none. . . . It doesn’t serve anyone. And I don’t think it empowers girls. It scares them.”
“这个问题蛮棘手的，”乳腺外科医生苏珊·洛夫(Susan Love)说。她同时也是“苏珊·洛夫医生研究基金”(Dr. Susan Love Research Foundation)的主席，“一些年轻女性确实得了乳腺癌，而你不愿意她们忽略病情，但是过早教育孩子们——这让我挺不安的。尤其是对一个高中生或初中生来说，她刚刚开始了解自己的身体。要实现这种搜寻并毁灭的使命，你的工作要发现潜伏的癌症，而发现癌症的可能性接近于零……这对所有人都没有意义。而且我觉得这并不会赋予女孩们力量。只会把她们吓坏。”
Rather than offering blanket assurances that “mammograms save lives,” advocacy groups might try a more realistic campaign tag line. The researcher Gilbert Welch has suggested, “Mammography has both benefits and harms — that’s why it’s a personal decision.” That was also the message of the 2009 task force, which was derailed by politics: scientific evidence indicates that getting mammograms every other year if you are between the ages of 50 and 74 makes sense; if you fall outside that age group and still want to be screened, you should be fully informed of the downsides.
倡导团体与其提供地毯式的信息轰炸，强调“钼靶筛查可挽救生命”，或许倒不如尝试一种更现实的宣传口号。研究人员吉尔伯特·韦尔奇建议了这么一句口号：“钼靶有益也有害——因此纯属个人决定。”这也是2009年那个联邦资助特别小组传递的信息，但因为政治的因素而偏离了既定轨道：科研证据表明，如果你年纪在50到74岁间，每隔一年接受一次筛查是有意义的；但如果不在这个年龄段中，仍然希望接受筛查，就需要全面了解筛查的负面信息。
Women are now well aware of breast cancer. So what’s next? Eradicating the disease (or at least substantially reducing its incidence and devastation) may be less a matter of raising more money than allocating it more wisely. When I asked scientists and advocates how at least some of that awareness money could be spent differently, their answers were broad and varied. Many brought up the meager funding for work on prevention. In February, for instance, a Congressional panel made up of advocates, scientists and government officials called for increasing the share of resources spent studying environmental links to breast cancer. They defined the term liberally to include behaviors like alcohol consumption, exposure to chemicals, radiation and socioeconomic disparities.
如今女性对乳腺癌都已经有了充分知晓。那么，接下来该做什么？要根除这种疾病（或者至少坚实地减少乳腺癌发病率和致死率），与其说要筹集更多资金，不如说是将资金更明智地分配。当我问科研人员和倡导人士，如何能把至少部分用于提高知晓度的资金花在别的用途上时，他们的回答五花八门。很多人谈到了用于乳腺癌预防的资金十分匮乏。比方说，今年2月，一个由倡导人士、科学家和政府官员组成的国会小组呼吁将增加投入在研究乳腺癌环境联系的资源。他们所说的环境联系，包括饮酒、暴露在化学物质下、辐射及社会经济学差异。
Other researchers are excited about the prospect of fighting or preventing cancer by changing the “microenvironment” of the breast — the tissue surrounding a tumor that can stimulate or halt its growth. Susan Love likened it to the way living in a good or bad neighborhood might sway a potentially delinquent child. “It may well be,” she told me, “that by altering the ‘neighborhood,’ whether it’s the immune system or the local tissue, we can control or kill the cancer cells.” Taking hormone-replacement therapy during menopause, which was found to contribute to escalating rates of breast cancer, may have been the biological equivalent of letting meth dealers colonize a street corner. On the other hand, a vaccine, the current focus of some scientists and advocates, would be like putting more cops on the beat.
其他研究者则对通过改变乳房的“微观环境”——包裹着肿块的组织，它可以刺激或停止肿物生长——以战胜或预防癌症的前景表示兴奋。苏珊·洛夫将之与生活的环境相比，生活在或好或坏的社区中，可能会改变一个有可能行为失当的孩子。她对我说：“通过改变‘社区’，无论是免疫系统还是周围器官，我们将有很大的可能控制或杀死癌细胞。”在更年期接受激素替代疗法就已证明会使得乳腺癌发病率逐步上升，它的生物学意义也许与让毒贩占领街角等同。另一方面，作为一些科学家和倡导人士最为关注的焦点——疫苗，可能相当于安排更多警察巡逻。
Nearly everyone agrees there is significant work to be done at both ends of the diagnostic spectrum: distinguishing which D.C.I.S. lesions will progress to invasive disease as well as figuring out the mechanisms of metastasis. According to a Fortune magazine analysis, only an estimated .5 percent of all National Cancer Institute grants since 1972 focus on metastasis; out of more than $2.2 billion dollars raised over the last six years, Komen has dedicated $79 million to such research — a lot of money, to be sure, but a mere 3.6 percent of its total budget during that period.
几乎所有人都认同，在诊断光谱的两头都有重要的工作亟待完成：一方面是区分哪种乳管原位癌肿块会恶化为侵袭性疾病，另一方面也要了解癌转移的机制。据《财富》(Fortune)杂志的一则分析，预计美国国立癌症研究所自1972年获得的资金中，仅有0.5%用于转移癌研究；柯曼基金会在过去六年里募得了超过22亿美元，将7900万美元用于上述研究——这当然仍是一笔巨款，但在基金会同期的总预算中只占到了3.6%。
“A lot of people are under the notion that metastatic work is a waste of time,” said Danny Welch, chairman of the department of cancer biology at the University of Kansas Cancer Center, “because all we have to do is prevent cancer in the first place. The problem is, we still don’t even know what causes cancer. I’d prefer to prevent it completely too, but to put it crassly, that’s throwing a bunch of people under the bus right now.”
“很多人都觉得研究转移癌纯粹是浪费时间，”堪萨斯大学(University of Kansas)癌症中心癌症生物学系主任丹尼·韦尔奇(Danny Welch)说：“他们认为我们只需首先预防住癌症就可以了。问题是，我们甚至仍然不知道是什么引发了癌症。我当然也宁愿把癌症完全拦在外面，但粗俗点来说，这就等于是把一批人直接丢到公交车下面了。”
One hundred and eight American women die of breast cancer each day. Some can live for a decade or more with metastatic disease, but the median life span is 26 months. One afternoon I talked to Ann Silberman, author of the blog “Breast Cancer? But Doctor . . . I Hate Pink.” Silberman started writing it in 2009, at age 51, after finding a lump in her breast that turned out to be cancer — a Stage 2 tumor, which she was told gave her a survival rate of 70 percent. At the time she was a secretary at a school in Sacramento, happily married and the mother of two boys, ages 12 and 22. Over the next two years, she had surgery, did six rounds of chemo, took a trio of drugs including Herceptin and, finally, thought she was done.
每天，有108位美国女性死于乳腺癌。一些人患转移癌后可存活10年甚至更久，不过存活期的中位数只有26个月。一天下等，我与安·西尔伯曼(Ann Silberman)聊天，她是博客“乳腺癌？可是大夫……我恨粉红运动”的作者。西尔伯曼在2009年，也就是她51岁那年开始写博客，在这之前她自己在胸部摸到了一个肿块，结果确诊是癌症——这是二期癌症，她得知自己的生存率为70%。当时，她是萨克拉门托一所学校的秘书，婚姻幸福，有两个分别是12岁和22岁的儿子。在之后两年里，她动了手术，做了六轮化疗，吃了包括赫赛汀在类的三种药物，最终她认为，自己应该没事了。
Four months later, a backache and bloated belly sent her to the doctor; the cancer had spread to her liver. Why didn’t the treatment work? No one knows. “At this point, you know that you’re going to die, and you know it’s going to be in the next five years,” she told me. Her goal is to see her youngest son graduate from high school next June.
四个月后，她感到后背疼痛，腹部浮肿，被迫去见医生；癌症已经扩散到肝脏。为什么治疗对她没起作用？没有人知道。“到此时，你知道自己肯定会死，而且肯定会在五年内死，”她对我说。她的目标是看到她的小儿子明年6月高中毕业。
It isn’t easy to face someone with metastatic disease, especially if you’ve had cancer yourself. Silberman’s trajectory is my worst fear; the night after we spoke, I was haunted by dreams of cancer’s return. Perhaps for that reason, metastatic patients are notably absent from pink-ribbon campaigns, rarely on the speaker’s podium at fund-raisers or races. Last October, for the first time, Komen featured a woman with Stage 4 disease in its awareness-month ads, but the wording carefully emphasized the positive: “Although, today, she has tumors in her bones, her liver and her lungs, Bridget still has hope.” (Bridget died earlier this month.)
面对一个患转移癌的人绝非易事，如果你本人也身患癌症就尤其如此了。西尔伯曼的遭遇是我最深的恐惧；在我们碰面的那个晚上，我一直在做恶梦，梦到癌症再次复发。也许正因为这个原因，转移癌的病人鲜少参与粉红丝带运动，几乎从不会出现在募捐的讲台或赛跑中。去年10月，柯曼第一次在其癌症意识月的广告中，将一位身患四期癌症的女性作为主角，但用词造句刻意要强调正面意义：“尽管，今天，她的骨骼、肝脏和双肺都有肿瘤，但布里吉特(Bridget)仍然有希望。”（布里吉特在本月初去世。）
“All that awareness terminology isn’t about us,” Silberman said. “It’s about surviving, and we’re not going to survive. We’re going to get sick. We’re going to lose parts of our livers. We’re going to be on oxygen. We’re going to die. It’s not pretty, and it’s not hopeful. People want to believe in ‘the cure,’ and they want to believe that cure is early detection. But you know what? It’s just not true.”
“所有那些关于‘意识’的术语都跟我们不沾边，”西尔伯曼说，“它跟生存有关，而我们不可能生存。我们注定将要病重。注定将要失去部分生命。注定要吸氧。注定会死。这不那么好看，也毫无希望可言。人们想要相信‘治愈’，他们也要相信早期发现意味着治愈。可是你知道吗？这不是真的。”
Scientific progress is erratic, unpredictable. “We are all foundering around in the dark,” said Peter B. Bach, director of the Center for Health Policy and Outcomes at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. “The one thing I can tell you is some of that foundering has borne fruit.” There are the few therapies, he said — like tamoxifen and Herceptin — that target specific tumor characteristics, and newer tests that estimate the chance of recurrence in estrogen-positive cancers, allowing lower-risk women to skip chemotherapy. “That’s not curing cancer,” Bach said, “but it’s progress. And yes, it’s slow.”
科研进展是游移不定、无法预测的。纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心(Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center)卫生政策与成果中心主任彼得·B·巴哈(Peter B. Bach)说：“我们都在黑暗中不断碰壁。我能告诉你一件事情，那就是某次碰壁后可能会带来丰硕的成果。”他说，现在已出现了几种针对具体肿瘤特点的靶向药物，比如三苯氧胺和赫赛汀，也涌现出了较新的测试技术，可以预测对雌性激素反应良好的癌症的复发可能，这样一来，低危患者就不必接受化疗。巴哈说：“这并不能治愈癌症，但它也属于研究进展。是的，进展确实缓慢。”
The idea that there could be one solution to breast cancer — screening, early detection, some universal cure — is certainly appealing. All of us — those who fear the disease, those who live with it, our friends and families, the corporations who swathe themselves in pink — wish it were true. Wearing a bracelet, sporting a ribbon, running a race or buying a pink blender expresses our hopes, and that feels good, even virtuous. But making a difference is more complicated than that.
面对乳腺癌提出一种解决对策——筛查、早期发现、某种通行的治疗方案——确实很吸引人。我们所有人——那些为乳腺癌深感恐惧的人，那些患者，我们的亲朋好友，为自己披挂上粉红色的公司，都希望有朝一日梦想成真。戴一个腕带、别一枚丝带、参加一次赛跑，或者购买一台粉红色的搅拌机，这就能表达我们的希望，而且这会让大家感觉良好、心存善意。但带来不同，就远没这么简单了。
It has been four decades since the former first lady Betty Ford went public with her breast-cancer diagnosis, shattering the stigma of the disease. It has been three decades since the founding of Komen. Two decades since the introduction of the pink ribbon. Yet all that well-meaning awareness has ultimately made women less conscious of the facts: obscuring the limits of screening, conflating risk with disease, compromising our decisions about health care, celebrating “cancer survivors” who may have never required treating. And ultimately, it has come at the expense of those whose lives are most at risk.
距前第一夫人贝蒂·福特(Betty Ford)公开讲述自己患乳腺癌，粉碎了这种病症的污名，已经过去了40年。距柯曼基金会成立，已经过去了30年。距粉色丝带面世，已经过去20年。然而，用意良好的公众知晓度运动，最终却不可避免地使得女性对事实知之甚少：它混淆了筛查的极限，将疾病的各类危险混为一谈，庆祝“癌症幸存者”的成就，而这些人也许本来永远都不需要治疗。最终，它将以那些生命岌岌可危的人的牺牲作为代价。