Call it pink and blue America.
称它为粉色与蓝色的美国吧。
To the many divides this ugly presidential campaign has exposed, add the chasm over the treatment of women, the plight of men and the proper roles of each.
这场丑陋的总统竞选暴露了许多分歧，在女性所受的待遇、男性所面临的困境以及双方扮演的适当角色方面，还加宽了原有的裂痕。
This was an election that showed how much we still talk past one another when we talk about gender. It made plain profound gaps in how men and women perceive one another’s lives and prerogatives.
这场选举表明，当我们讨论性别问题时，仍然是在各执一词。在男性和女性如何看待彼此的生活和天赋权利方面，这场选举造成了清晰而且巨大的鸿沟。
This was an election in which the grievances of white men — their economic upheaval, their cultural displacement — exploded. The fallout included toxic paroxysms of racism, Islamophobia, anti-Semitism and sexism. Misogyny, it appears, thrives in corners of the United States.
在这场选举中，白人男性因经济动荡和文化错位带来的不满统统爆发出来。其后果包括种族主义、伊斯兰恐惧症、反犹太主义和性别歧视的恶性迸发。对女性的厌恶似乎在美国的各个角落里生机盎然。
Donald Trump’s hypermasculinity — the sexual swagger, the belittling of his opponents, his need to dominate — appealed to some men who believed he could restore them to their rightful place.
唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的超级大男子主义――在性方面的自吹自擂、贬低竞争对手、支配欲――对于某些男性来说格外有吸引力，他们相信他能恢复他们应得的位置。
Yet men at Trump rallies also spoke of their faith that Trump, whose business acumen they revered, would bring an outsider’s willingness to take on the elites who put them down.
特朗普竞选集会上的男人也谈到他们的信念：他们推崇特朗普在商业上的精明头脑，他们相信特朗普会带着一个局外人的积极性，同那些令他们丢人现眼的精英们较量一番。
The campaign became a battle of two caricatures: male chauvinist pig against scheming, dishonest woman. It exposed parallel universes. In one, women flooded social media with their memories of sexual assault after Trump was caught on tape boasting about forcing himself on women. In another, men dismissed the tape as locker room talk or were surprised at how many women told them such harassment was commonplace.
这场竞选成了两个漫画人物的战斗：大男子主义沙文猪对阵满腹阴谋、不诚实的女人。它揭示出两个平行宇宙。在一个平行宇宙里，特朗普吹嘘自己骚扰女性的录音曝光后，女人们用自己受性侵的记忆淹没了社交网络。在另一个平行宇宙里，男人们把这段录音轻描淡写为“更衣室谈话”，或惊讶于有多少女人曾经告诉他们，这样的骚扰是经常发生的事情。
This is an intimate divide. The boundaries of pink and blue America are fluid, and they come up against each other within households and communities. The gender chasm is bound up with class and confounds easy categorization. There are men who embrace violent misogyny and men who deplore it, women who shrugged off the “Access Hollywood” tape and hate Hillary Clinton with as much fervor as any man. A majority of white women voted for Trump, exit polls by Edison Research suggest.
这是一条私密的鸿沟。粉色与蓝色美国的边界是流动的，他们在家庭和社区中相互对抗。性别鸿沟是同阶级有关的，无法轻易分类。有的男人内心是暴力厌女者，也有的男人对此表示强烈谴责；有的女人对于那段“走进好莱坞”(Access Hollywood)录音只是耸耸肩而已，对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的憎恨却比男人还要狂热。爱迪生研究(Edison Research)的出口民调显示，大多数白人女性都把票投给了特朗普。
While polling does not reach into individual marriages, the results suggest a marital gap — 58 percent of married men voted for Trump compared with 47 percent of married women, according to exit polls. A YouGov poll published Oct. 9 offered a glimpse into what veteran pollster Celinda Lake calls the “Sure, Honey” factor: Forty-four percent of married women said they planned to vote for Clinton; 33 percent of married men said they thought their spouse would vote for her.
民意调查并没有深入研究个人婚姻状况，但是其结果亦显示出婚姻方面的鸿沟――根据出口民调，58％的已婚男子投票选举特朗普，已婚妇女投票选举特朗普的比例则是47%。10月9日YouGov发布的民意调查让人们有机会了解一下资深民意调查组织者塞琳达·雷克(Celinda Lake)所谓的“当然啦，亲爱的”(Sure, Honey)因素：44%的已婚妇女表示计划投票支持克林顿；而只有33％的已婚男子说他们认为配偶会投票支持她。
As in politics, so in the workplace. At work, women have made substantial inroads and dominate the fastest-growing (and lower paid) segments of the economy, the “pink collar” industries such as health and education. More than a fifth of American men between 20 and 65 had no paid work last year.
和政治领域一样，工作场所也存在这样的鸿沟。在工作中，妇女已经取得了巨大的进步，并掌握着经济体中增长最快（和收入较低）的环节，也就是被称为“粉领”的健康和教育等行业。去年在20至65岁的美国男性当中，有超过1/5的人没有支薪工作。
But men consistently underestimate the barriers that women confront. In a study of more than 34,000 employees at 132 companies, 54 percent of men thought that the best opportunities would go to the most deserving employees regardless of gender; just 44 percent of women believed that. The survey, conducted by Lean In and McKinsey and Co. and released in late September, found that a third of women thought their gender was a disadvantage in getting a raise or promotion.
但是男性一直都在低估女性所面临的障碍。在一项针对132家企业超过3.4万名员工进行的调查中，54％的男性认为，不论性别如何，最优秀的员工能得到最好的机会；但只有44％的女性相信这一点。这项在9月下旬发布、由Lean In和麦肯锡公司(McKinsey and Co.)所做的调查发现，1/3的女性认为自己的性别在加薪或晋升方面是不利因素。
On campus, young men and women are facing off over what is assault and what is a sexual pass gone awry. Young men frequently protest that they are denied due process in campus hearings of sexual assault; young women charge that their attackers too often go unpunished.
在校园里，年轻的男人和女人在何谓性侵、何谓调情表达失误这方面针锋相对。年轻男性经常抗议说他们在关于校园性侵的听证会上没有给予应有的处理程序；年轻女性则指责侵犯她们的人往往得以逃脱惩罚。
Even reading habits diverge; women read mysteries and true crime; men read science fiction and history, according to Peter Hildick-Smith, the president of Codex Group, which surveys reading patterns.
甚至还有阅读习惯方面的分歧；Codex集团曾就阅读模式展开调查，其总裁彼得·希尔迪克-史密斯(Peter Hildick-Smith)说，女性更喜欢阅读神秘故事和真实犯罪；男性则喜欢阅读科幻小说和历史。
There has been much talk of healing in this fervid season. The racism that President Barack Obama’s election forced to the surface emboldened the so-called alt-right but also forced many white Americans to acknowledge lasting inequities. That may well be the case during Trump’s tenure: an eruption of sexism and an inability to deny its virulence.
在这个慷慨激昂的季节里，有很多话语是关于愈合分歧的。贝拉克·奥巴马总统的当选，令许多种族歧视浮出水面，也为所谓的“另类右翼”(alt-right)壮了胆，但是这也迫使许多美国白人承认不公现象依然长期存在。在特朗普任期内可能还是同样的情况：性别歧视会出现大爆发，令人们再也不能否认它的危害。
“Some men have this feeling that women are coming — in education, on polls, on social media, they have a voice,” said Marianne Cooper, a sociologist at Stanford’s Clayman Institute for Gender Research. “This upends a long history of women knowing their place.”
“有些男性觉得，女人们在咄咄逼人，她们在教育领域，民意调查之中和社交媒体上都有了自己的声音，”斯坦福大学克莱曼性别研究所的社会学家玛丽安·库珀(Marianne Cooper)说，“这颠覆了长期以来女性要安分守己的历史。”
Katy Cockrell, 25, backed Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont but found herself weeping as she cast a vote for Clinton and thought of her grandmothers. “They lived in this ‘Mad Men’ era, and I thought about how much I admired them as they fought the sexism they’d experienced,” she said.
今年25岁的凯蒂·科克莱尔(Katy Cockrell)支持佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，但她哭着投给了克林顿，她想到自己的祖母和外祖母。“她们生活在《广告狂人》(Mad Men)的时代，我想起自己多么敬仰她们，因为她们一直在同身边的性别歧视作斗争，”她说。
Now, she added of Trump, “the tough part for me and women of all ages is that we are going to look at him every day and be reminded of every time we’ve faced sexism in our own lives.”
关于特朗普，她补充说，“对于我和所有年龄的女人们来说，今后我们每天都要看到他，每一次都会提醒我们，我们在生活中依然面临性别歧视，这非常煎熬。”