The treatment may sound appalling, but it works.
这种疗法可能骇人听闻，但是疗效很好。
Transplanting feces from a healthy person into the gut of one who is sick can quickly cure severe intestinal infections caused by a dangerous type of bacteria that antibiotics often cannot control.
把健康人的粪便灌入病人的肠道，就可以迅速治愈一种严重的肠道感染。造成这种感染的病菌很危险，抗生素常常无法控制。
A new study finds that such transplants cured 15 of 16 people who had recurring infections with Clostridium difficile bacteria, whereas antibiotics cured only 3 of 13 and 4 of 13 patients in two comparison groups. The treatment appears to work by restoring the gut’s normal balance of bacteria, which fight off C. difficile.
一项新研究发现，这种植入疗法治愈了16名反复感染艰难梭菌(Clostridium difficile)的患者中的15名。而在两个各13人的对照组中，抗生素只治愈了一组患者中的3个人，及另一组患者中的4个人。这种疗法之所以奏效，似乎是因为恢复了肠道的正常菌群平衡，平衡的肠道菌群消灭了艰难梭菌。
The study is the first to compare the transplants with standard antibiotic therapy. The research, conducted in the Netherlands, is being published Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine.
这是植入疗法与常规的抗生素疗法之间的首次对照研究，研究是在荷兰进行的。周三，《新英格兰医学杂志》(New England Journal of Medicine)发表了这项研究的报告。
Fecal transplants have been used sporadically for years as a last resort to fight this stubborn and debilitating infection, which kills 14,000 people a year in the United States. The infection is usually caused by antibiotics, which can predispose people to C. difficile by killing normal gut bacteria. If patients are then exposed to C. difficile, which is common in many hospitals, it can take hold.
多年来，粪便灌注疗法偶尔会被用作无计可施时最后的办法，来治疗这种令人虚弱的顽固感染。美国每年有1.4万人死于这种感染。它通常是抗生素导致的，抗生素会杀灭正常的肠道细菌，使人易于感染艰难梭菌。而艰难梭菌在许多医院里都很常见，病人接触到艰难梭菌时，就会受到感染。
The usual treatment involves more antibiotics, but about 20 percent of patients relapse, and many of them suffer repeated attacks, with severe diarrhea, vomiting and fever.
常规疗法是使用更多抗生素，但约20%的病人会病情复发，而且他们中的许多人会反复发病，出现严重腹泻、呕吐和高烧症状。
Researchers say that worldwide, about 500 people with the infection have had fecal transplantation. It involves diluting stool with a liquid like salt water and then pumping it into the intestinal tract via an enema, a colonoscope or a tube run through the nose into the stomach or small intestine.
研究者称，全球已有约500名感染此病的患者接受了粪便疗法的治疗。该疗法使用盐水等液体稀释粪便，然后使用灌肠器、结肠镜或从鼻腔插入通向胃部或小肠的软管，将稀释物注入肠道。
Stool can contain hundreds or even thousands of types of bacteria, and researchers do not yet know which ones have the curative powers. So for now, feces have to be used pretty much intact.
粪便会包含数百甚至数千种细菌，研究者还不知道哪些细菌具有疗效。所以，目前粪便必须基本上完整施用。
Medical journals have reported high success rates and seemingly miraculous cures in patients who had suffered for months. But until now there was room for doubt, because no controlled experiments had compared the outlandish-sounding remedy with other treatments.
多个医学期刊曾报道过，这种疗法的成功率很高，而且对那些患病数月的患者，产生了近乎神奇的疗效。但是此前，还一直有怀疑的余地，因为在此之前没有开展过将这种怪诞疗法与其他疗法相对比的对照实验。
The new research is the first to provide the type of evidence that skeptics have demanded, and proponents say they hope the results will help bring fecal transplants into the medical mainstream, because for some patients nothing else works.
这项新研究首次给出了怀疑者所要求的那种证据。该疗法的支持者称，他们希望这一结果能有助于让粪便疗法成为医学界的主流疗法，因为有些患者除此之外无法医治。
“Those of us who do fecal transplant know how effective it is,” said Dr. Colleen R. Kelly, a gastroenterologist with the Women’s Medicine Collaborative in Providence, R.I., who was not part of the Dutch study. “The tricky part has been convincing everybody else.”
罗德岛普罗维登斯女子医院(Women’s Medicine Collaborative)的肠胃病专家科琳·R·凯利博士(Dr. Colleen R. Kelly)说，“我们这些实施粪便疗法的人知道它的疗效多么好。只是说服别人很困难。”凯利博士没有参与上文所述的荷兰研究。
She added, “This is an important paper, and hopefully it will encourage people to change their practice patterns and offer this treatment more.”
她补充道，“这份论文很重要，希望它能鼓励医生们改变治疗模式，多实施这种疗法。”
C. difficile is a global problem. Increasingly toxic strains have emerged in the past decade. In the United States, more than 300,000 patients in hospitals contract C. difficile each year, and researchers estimate that the total number of cases, in and out of hospitals, may be three million. Treatment costs exceed $1 billion a year.
艰难梭菌是个全球性问题。过去十年里，这种细菌出现了毒性越来越强的变种。在美国，每年有30万住院的患者感染艰难梭菌。研究者们估计，医院内外的病例总数可能有300万例，治疗花费每年逾10亿美元。
Fecal therapy has often been used to cure gut trouble in cows and horses. Books on traditional Chinese medicine mention giving it to people by mouth to cure diarrhea in the fourth century; one book called it yellow soup.
粪便疗法经常用于治疗牛马的肠道疾病。介绍中国传统医学的书籍中，也提到过四世纪时，让患者口服粪便治疗腹泻的案例。一本书中将其称为“黄龙汤”。
In 1958, Dr. Ben Eiseman, of the University of Colorado, published a report about using fecal enemas to cure four patients with life-threatening intestinal infections.
1958年，科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)的本·艾斯曼博士(Dr. Ben Eiseman)发表了一篇报告，介绍了通过粪便灌肠为四名患者治疗威胁生命的肠道感染的事例。
The senior author of the new study, Dr. Josbert Keller, a gastroenterologist at the Hagaziekenhuis hospital in The Hague, said that before conducting the research, he and his colleagues had performed the transplant in about 10 cases, and it almost always worked.
这项新研究报告的高级作者约斯伯特·凯勒博士(Dr. Josbert Keller)是荷兰海牙哈加医院(Hagaziekenhuis)的肠胃病专家。他说，在开展这项研究之前，他和他的同事已经对10个病例实施了粪便移植，而且几乎全都产生了效果。
“After the first four or five patients, we started thinking, we can’t go on doing this kind of obscure treatment without evidence,” Dr. Keller said. “Everybody is laughing about it.”
“在治疗过头四五名患者后，我们开始考虑，不能再继续使用这种偏方一样的疗法而没有证据了，”凯勒说，“大家都在笑话。”
The researchers studied adults who had been suffering from C. difficile for months and had had at least one relapse after antibiotics. They were picked at random to be in one of three groups. Only one group, 16 people, had the transplant: they took the antibiotic vancomycin for four days, had their intestines rinsed and then had the fecal solution pumped into their small intestines through a nose tube. A second group, 13 people, had the intestinal wash and 14 days of vancomycin, and a third, also 13, had only vancomycin.
研究人员对感染艰难梭菌数月之久，服用抗生素后至少复发一次的成年患者展开了研究。这些患者被随机分配到三个小组里，其中只有一个小组的16名患者接受了粪便灌注。患者接受了四天万古霉素(vancomycin)治疗，清洗肠道，之后通过鼻管将粪便溶液灌注至小肠中。第二组13名患者清洗肠道并使用了14天万古霉素。第三组也有13名患者，仅使用万古霉素治疗。
The donors were tested for an array of diseases to make sure they did not infect the patients. Their specimens were mixed with saline in a blender and strained, to produce a solution that Dr. Keller said resembled chocolate milk.
粪便捐献者接受了一系列疾病的检查，从而确保不会让患者感染。粪便被置于搅拌器内与盐水混合，之后经过过滤。据凯勒博士描述，产生的溶液很像巧克力奶。
Dr. Keller said patients were so eager to receive transplants that they would not join the study unless the researchers promised that those assigned to antibiotics alone would get transplants later if the drugs failed.
凯勒说，患者十分迫切地想要接受粪便疗法，研究人员必须承诺，分配到只使用抗生素小组的患者，如果药物无效，可以随后接受粪便疗法，患者才同意参加研究。
Among the 16 who received transplants, 13 were cured after the first infusion. The other three were given repeat infusions from different donors, and two were also cured. In the two groups of patients who did not receive transplants, only 7 of 26 were cured.
在接受粪便疗法的16名患者中，有13名在接受第一次灌注后就痊愈了。另外三位患者又接受了来自不同捐献者的灌注，其中两人痊愈。而另外两组没有接受这种疗法的患者，26人中只有7人痊愈。
Of the patients who did not receive transplants at first and who relapsed after receiving antibiotics only, 18 were subsequently given transplants, and 15 were cured.
最初未接受灌注而仅采用抗生素、之后又复发的患者中，有18人随后又接受了灌注，其中有15人痊愈。
The study was originally meant to include more patients, but it had to be cut short because the antibiotic groups were faring so poorly compared with the transplant patients that it was considered unethical to continue.
研究本来打算包括更多患者，但研究期限不得不缩短。原因是，由于抗生素组的患者与接受灌注的患者相比健康状况极差，再继续研究，难免违背道德。
The results come as no surprise to doctors who have tried the procedure. Dr. Alexander Khoruts, a gastroenterologist at the University of Minnesota, said he had performed the transplants in more than 100 patients with C. difficile. He said that it worked the first time in 90 percent, and that the other 10 percent were cured with a second treatment. The procedure can be done with a stool solution that has been frozen and thawed, he said.
对于那些已经尝试过这种疗法的医生来说，实验结果并不意外。明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)肠胃病专家亚历山大·霍鲁茨博士(Dr. Alexander Khoruts)说，他已经对100多位感染艰难梭菌的患者进行了灌注疗法。他说90%的情况下，首次灌注就能奏效，其余的10%则在第二次接受治疗后痊愈。他说，这种疗法可以利用冷冻再解冻后的大便溶液进行。