A television ad shows a new father gently placing his infant into a car seat, then proudly driving his wife and child home for the first time.
在一个电视广告里，一个初为人父的男人温柔地把婴儿放入汽车座椅，然后骄傲地开车第一次载妻儿回家。
In London on Tuesday, Prince William re-enacted that charming Everyman tableau: In a blue shirt, sleeves rolled up, he gently snapped the car seat holding his as yet unnamed son, heir to the British throne, into the back of a Range Rover, then took the wheel and drove away from the hospital with his wife, the former Kate Middleton, now the Duchess of Cambridge. (The driver-bodyguard slipped discreetly into the passenger seat.)
周二在伦敦，威廉王子再次真实上演了这感人的一幕：他穿着蓝色的衬衫，袖子挽起来，温柔地把放着他尚未命名的儿子、英国皇室继承人的汽车座椅放到了路虎揽胜(Range Rover)汽车的后排，然后开动汽车，带着妻子、剑桥公爵夫人凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)驶离医院（司机兼保镖悄悄坐到了乘客席上）。
The first is an ad for Nissan, the second, a commercial for the British royal family.
第一个视频是尼桑汽车的宣传片，第二个是英国皇室的宣传片。
Both are artful displays of salesmanship.
两个视频都是推销术的艺术展现。
Far more than even the royal wedding of William and Kate in 2011, the unveiling of the newest Windsor signaled to viewers worldwide that this is a new generation of royals, less isolated and more down to earth. Their wedding, watched by as many as 3 billion people, was an infomercial for the ancient British art of pageantry and tradition. Tuesday’s tableau was a nod to modern stagecraft — Pampers, not pomp. CNN and others obligingly spit their screens between Tuesday’s first glimpse and the moment when Prince Charles and Princess Diana proudly presented their firstborn in 1982. The Duchess of Cambridge on Tuesday wore a light blue dress that matched her husband’s shirt, but also had white polka dots, like the green dress Diana wore when she carried her baby, not yet named William, out of the hospital.
新温莎公爵的露面向全世界观众表明这是新一代皇室，他们不再那么高高在上，而是十分平易近人。这次亮相比2011年威廉和凯特的皇家婚礼更能体现这一点。那场婚礼是对古老的英国盛典艺术和传统的宣传，观众多达30亿人。周二的真人秀则是对现代舞台艺术的致敬，这次宣传的是帮宝适，而不是盛况。CNN和其他一些电视台贴心地为观众来回切换画面，穿插播放小王子周二的初次露面，以及查尔斯王子与戴安娜王妃1982年骄傲地展示他们的长子时的情形。剑桥公爵夫人周二穿的是一件浅蓝色的连衣裙，与丈夫的衬衫颜色协调；连衣裙上也有白色波尔卡圆点，与戴安娜王妃抱着当时尚未命名的威廉时穿的那件绿色连衣裙有些相似。
Back then, Prince Charles and his young wife seemed quite modern, at least by royal standards, but he wore a suit and tie, and when they drove off, a chauffeur was at the wheel. His son, who joked to reporters that the baby has more hair than he, chose an even more laid-back look and casual manner, driving his newborn home much the way he took the wheel to drive Kate off after their wedding.
那时候，查尔斯王子和他年轻的妻子似乎相当摩登，至少从皇家的标准来看是这样的。但是查尔斯王子穿着西服，打着领带，他们驶离医院的时候，是司机开车。威廉王子跟记者开玩笑说，婴儿的头发比他多。他打扮得更休闲，仪态也更随意。他开车载着一家人回家的情形，很像婚礼后载着凯特驶离现场的情形。
And these seemingly simple rites of ordinariness are as calculated as the formal posting of the royal birth announcement on a gold-trimmed easel in front of Buckingham Palace.
和白金汉宫门前镶金边的布告板上张贴的宣布皇室新子嗣诞生的正式公告一样，这些看似简单的普通仪式是经过精心策划的。
They happen because they happen to work. The doting and intense coverage, the Kate Waits, the crowds, the parade of royal experts (most of whom are attractive young women who look and sound a lot like Kate Middleton) are all testimony to how well Prince William and his wife, a commoner from a middle-class family, have managed to redeem and restore the royal image after the fiascos of the past few decades – and there were many more than just one annus horribilis in the scandal-soaked era of Charles, Diana, Camilla, Dodie and Fergie.
这些事情会发生是因为它们有用处。媒体对这件事的偏爱和集中报道，等待报道凯特生产的记者、人群、皇室研究专家（其中大多是漂亮的年轻女子，她们的相貌和声音跟凯特·米德尔顿十分相似）的大军，这一切都是在证明威廉王子和他来自中产家庭的平民妻子，如何很好地挽回和重塑了皇家形象。英国皇家的形象在过去几十年里经历了彻底的失败，在那个充满了关于查尔斯、戴安娜、卡米拉(Camilla)、多迪(Dodie)和菲姬(Fergie)的丑闻的年代，可以称为“多灾之年”的不止一年。
A new baby is usually a private joy, a screened-off leap into love and terror. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge managed to protect their seclusion without seeming at all exclusive. They are uncommon celebrities who together have mastered the knack of seeming like any other ordinary couple sharing an extraordinary moment with the entire world.
婴儿诞生通常是自家的快乐，也是通往爱与恐惧的揭示真相式飞跃。剑桥公爵和公爵夫人既保护了他们的隐私，也不显得排外。他俩通过巧妙的操作手法，让自己看起来像其他普通夫妇一样与整个世界分享这一特殊时刻——这样的名人可不多见。