This is a watershed moment in the field of nutrition, medical experts say. For the first time, researchers have shown that a diet can have an effect as powerful as drugs in preventing what really matters to patients — heart attacks, and strokes and deaths from cardiovascular disease.
医学专家称，这是营养学领域的一个分水岭时刻。研究人员首次证明，饮食可以像药品一样，有效预防对病人来说至关重要的疾病：心脏病、中风以及心血管疾病引发的死亡。
The subjects were people at high risk of heart disease, and the diet was a Mediterranean one, high in olive oil or nuts.
研究对象是心脏病发病风险较高的人，所用的饮食是富含橄榄油或者坚果的地中海饮食。
The study, published last week in The New England Journal of Medicine, is now shaking up the field of cardiovascular medicine, infusing it with optimism. Scientists are calling for similarly rigorous studies of other popular diets that are routinely recommended by cardiologists even though there is little solid evidence that they work.
研究报告上周发表于《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)，该报告震动了心血管医学界，给人们带来一股乐观情绪。科学家呼吁对心血管专家经常推荐、但没有确凿证据证明其管用的其他一些流行饮食进行类似的严谨研究。
“We don’t know what the best diet is,” said Dr. Michael Lauer, the director of the division of cardiovascular sciences at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. “This is a great opportunity to come together and use power of the scientific method to get closer to the right answer.”
美国国家心脏、肺和血液研究所(National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute)心血管科学部门主任迈克尔·劳尔(Michael Lauer)医生称，“我们并不知道哪种饮食最好。这是个很好的机会，可以用科学方法的力量，系统化地逐渐逼近正确答案。” 
Other leading experts agreed.
其他一些领先专家对此表示赞同。
“This is the start of where we need to go with nutritional clinical trials,” said Dr. Neil J. Stone, a professor of preventive cardiology at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine and a former chairman of the American Heart Association’s nutrition committee.
“这是我们在营养学临床实验方面下一阶段的起点，”美国西北大学(Northwestern University)芬堡医学院(Feinberg School of Medicine)预防心脏病学教授尼尔·J·斯通(Neil J. Stone)称。他曾任美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)营养委员会主席。
The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute is supporting a large clinical trial to see if fish oil and vitamin D can prevent heart attacks and cardiovascular deaths. But while that is important, heart experts say it is time to also look at diets as a whole.
美国国家心脏、肺和血液研究所正在支持一项大型临床实验，研究鱼油和维生素D能否预防心脏病和心血管病引发的死亡。虽然这很重要，但是心脏专家称，现在还应该从整体上考虑饮食。
“We definitively need to test plausible diets, within the context of what is available and consumed in the U.S., that could lower the risk of heart disease,” said Alice H. Lichtenstein, a professor of nutrition science and policy at Tufts University and the lead author of the American Heart Association’s dietary guidelines.
塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)营养科学和政策教授、美国心脏协会饮食指引主要作者爱丽丝·H·利希滕斯坦(Alice H. Lichtenstein)称，“我们肯定需要对那些有望降低心脏病风险、且在美国可以得到和消费的饮食进行试验。” 
Dr. Lawrence Appel, a professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins who was a member of the 2005 and 2010 United States dietary guidelines committees, said he was inspired by the Mediterranean diet study.
约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins)医学教授劳伦斯·阿佩尔(Lawrence Appel)称，他受到这项针对地中海饮食研究的启发。他曾在2005年到2010年担任美国饮食指导委员会成员。
“Can we do a trial of fruits and vegetables?” he asked. “I think we can.”
他问道，“我们可以对水果和蔬菜进行实验吗？我认为可以。”
The situation in nutrition today reminds Dr. Lauer of an era in the 1950s when doctors struggled to figure out how best to treat heart attack patients.
营养学领域当今的局面，让劳尔医生回想起20世纪50年代，当时医学界全力寻找治疗心脏病患者的最佳方法。
“Nutrition research is where heart attack research was,” Dr. Lauer said. Patients in those days were advised to stay in bed for four to five weeks and take lidocaine to normalize their hearts’ rhythms and nitroglycerin to open blood vessels.
“营养学研究现状和当年的心脏病研究处在同一个阶段，”劳尔医生称。那时，医生建议病人卧床休息四、五个星期，服用利多卡因（使心脏频率恢复正常）和硝酸甘油（扩张血管）。
But it turned out that treatment actually hastened death. It took years to find the answers, but eventually, Dr. Lauer said, dozens if not hundreds of large clinical trials radically transformed heart attack treatment.
但是后来发现，这种疗法实际上加速了死亡。多年后医生才找到答案，但劳尔医生称，最终在几十乃至上百项大规模临床实验后，才从根本上转变了心脏病治疗方法。
But when it comes to diet and heart disease, doctors — and patients — have been going on hunches.
然而，在饮食和心脏病的关系方面，医生（以及病人）一直只能凭感觉。
The new study could be a start in changing all that, heart researchers said.
心脏研究人员称，这项新研究可能是改变这一切的一个开端。
It involved 7,447 people in Spain, half of whom were randomly assigned to follow a Mediterranean diet and the rest to follow the sort of standard low-fat diet that cardiologists often prescribe. It was ended early after less than five years because those on the Mediterranean diet had 30 percent fewer heart attacks, strokes and deaths from heart disease compared with people in the control group, who ate more or less the same way that they always had. They had been instructed to follow a low-fat diet but had not been able to comply.
研究对象是西班牙的7447人，其中一半人被随机选出，要求他们遵循地中海饮食，而另一半人遵循心血管病专家经常指定的标准低脂饮食。这项研究在进行了不到五年后提前结束，因为采用地中海饮食的人和对照组相比，患心脏病、中风以及因心血管疾病引发死亡的案例低了30%。对照组的人饮食方式与以往无甚区别，尽管他们被要求遵循低脂饮食，但没能做到。
Dr. Ramón Estruch of the University of Barcelona, the lead author of the study, said that although some had thought people would never allow their diets to be decided by a figurative toss of a coin, it was not hard to get people to switch to a Mediterranean diet.
研究报告的主要作者、巴塞罗那大学(University of Barcelona)的拉蒙·埃斯特鲁奇(Ramon Estruch)医生称，虽然一些人曾认为，人们绝不会让自己的饮食被随机决定，但让人们转向地中海饮食习惯并不困难。
“They wanted to eat the way their grandfathers ate,” he said. Most study participants actually thought they were already eating that way. They learned they were not after answering questions about, for example, how often they ate red meat versus fish.
“他们想按照祖父辈的习惯进食，”他说。大部分研究对象实际上认为自己已经在按这一方式进食，但在回答了相关问题（比如他们吃红肉相对于吃鱼的频度）后，他们明白自己的饮食习惯算不上地中海饮食。
Dr. Estruch said he and his colleagues were so buoyed by the success of their study that they were planning another one.
埃斯特鲁奇称，这次研究的成功使他和同事们大受鼓舞，他们正计划要再进行一项研究。
They intend to randomly assign people to consume the Mediterranean diet or to exercise while following a similar diet that is lower in calories. The hope is that adding weight loss and exercise will prevent even more heart disease.
他们打算随机选取一些人采用地中海饮食方式，另一些人采用类似的饮食，但卡路里更低，同时坚持运动。希望在于，减肥和锻炼能预防更多心脏疾病。
But for now, chaos reigns. The public is bombarded with diet advice, often contradictory and often lacking a rigorous scientific grounding, medical experts said.
但就目前而言，局面仍以混乱为主。医学专家称，各种饮食建议让公众眼花缭乱，很多建议经常相互矛盾，往往缺乏严谨的科学依据。
“Diets are an extreme case of accepting evidence we want to believe,” said Dr. J. Sanford Schwartz, a professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania.
宾西法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)医学教授J·桑福德·施瓦茨(J. Sanford Schwartz)称，“饮食是一个极端的例子，证明人总是希望接受自己想要相信的证据。”
That includes doctors, he added, who overlook that the evidence for the low-fat diets they often recommend is the sort “we would never accept in the practice of medicine.”
他补充说，这包括医生，他们忽视了这样一个事实：他们经常推荐的低脂饮食的依据，是“我们在医学上绝不会接受的”。
Those low-fat diets sound sensible — eat fruits and vegetables, fish and lean meats. Cut back on salt- and sugar-laden sodas and potato chips. Cut or sharply limit most fats, including olive oil and nuts. But such diets have not been tested in the way the Mediterranean diet was tested.
这种低脂饮食听上去有道理：吃水果和蔬菜、鱼类和瘦肉。减少高盐高糖的炸薯条和苏打饮料的摄入量。减少或者严格限制大部分脂肪，包括橄榄油和坚果。但是此类饮食方式从未像地中海饮食实验那样经受测试。
Doctors are in a bind, said Dr. Daniel J. Rader, a heart disease specialist at the University of Pennsylvania. When patients ask what to eat, he said, “you have to give them something.”
宾夕法尼亚大学心脏疾病专家丹尼尔·J·雷德(Daniel J. Rader)医生称，医生也很为难。当病人问该吃什么时，他说，“你不得不给他们一些建议。”
“Given the importance of diets and given the decades of dietary recommendations we have given to people, you would think we would have had more dietary studies with hard endpoints to get at these questions,” Dr. Rader said. 
雷德称，“鉴于饮食的重要性，而且几十年来我们一直在给人们提供饮食建议，你会认为，为找到这些问题的答案，我们已经在饮食方面进行过更多的研究，得到了确凿的结论。”
But other diet studies are definitely in the offing, researchers said.
但研究者称，其他饮食研究很快会展开。
“As we go on, we realize we know less and less,” Dr. Lauer said. “We can despair and just make things up, or we can celebrate and say we have a real opportunity to grow here.”
劳尔称，“我们越继续研究，就发现自己的所知越少。我们可以陷入绝望，拿出一些臆想的东西，也可以积极看待自己的无知，称我们得到了一次真正的成长机会。”