As a native Manhattanite, Jackie Goldstein knew she was lucky when it came to housing.
身为土生土长的曼哈顿人，杰姬·戈德斯坦(Jackie Goldstein)知道自己在住房问题上有多幸运。
“The reason I was even in a position to buy is because I am originally from the city,” she said. Returning home after graduating from Emerson College in Boston meant moving back to the two-bedroom co-op near the financial district where she had spent her childhood. She lived rent-free with her father.
“我跻身买房者的行列，原因在于我本来就是纽约人，”她说。从波士顿(Boston)的爱默生学院(Emerson College)毕业后回到家，就意味着要搬回这套位于金融区附近的双卧室合作公寓了。这里是她儿时成长的地方。她与父亲住在一起，无须交纳房租。
Ms. Goldstein, 25, who works as the editorial operations manager for the Curbed Network, saved most of her income and was philosophical about not living on her own. “I was benchmarking it by what my other friends were doing,” she said. “If they were still living at home, it was O.K. for me to live at home.”
25岁的戈德斯坦是Curbed Network网站的编辑业务经理。她把大部分收入都存了起来，并淡定地面对着自己没有独立生活这件事。“我参照了其他朋友的做法，”她说，“如果他们都还住在家里，那么我这样做也没问题。”
Around a year ago, with her high school friends starting to move out on their own, she decided it wouldn’t be O.K. for much longer.
大约一年前，她的高中好友们陆续搬出去自己住了。于是她也下定决心，不能再这样住下去。
She started pounding the pavement, sometimes with her mother, who lives in Park Slope, focusing on Brooklyn neighborhoods with reasonable subway access to Manhattan. Her price topped out at $300,000.
她开始徘徊在街头，寻找住处，有时还会邀上住在公园坡(Park Slope)的母亲。她重点看了布鲁克林几个有地铁可到曼哈顿的社区。她能承受的价格上限是30万美元（约合人民币186.4万元）。
“Every weekend I would go to open houses and walk everywhere,” she said. “I really wanted to be exploring the neighborhoods. A lot of the stuff I was looking at was for research purposes.”
“每个周末我都去看房，到哪都走着去，”她说，“我真的想仔细考察一下那些社区。为了一探究竟，我去看了很多东西。”
Williamsburg was out, striking her as too gentrified and slick, and she didn’t want to be tethered to the L train. She was interested in Prospect Heights, but as the months went on, the neighborhood grew less and less affordable.
威廉斯堡地区(Williamsburg)就不用考虑了，那里过于士绅化和浮华的氛围让她吃了一惊。而且，她不想被一条L线地铁拴住。她对展望高地(Prospect Heights)颇感兴趣，但月复一月，那里的房价已经涨得让人越来越无法承受了。
At an open house for a small studio in a co-op building in Kensington, Ms. Goldstein met Tyson Lewis, an agent, then at Brooklyn Properties and now at Halstead Property.
有一次，戈德斯坦在肯辛顿地区(Kensington)的一栋合作公寓楼里参观一套小面积的单间公寓。她遇见了当时在布鲁克林地产公司(Brooklyn Property)、现在已去了哈尔斯泰德地产公司(Halstead Property)的经纪人泰森·刘易斯(Tyson Lewis)。
She realized she needed a one-bedroom. In a studio, she said, “I would feel like a hamster.”
她发现，自己需要的是那种带一间卧室的公寓。因为住在一套单间公寓里，她说，“我会觉得自己像一只仓鼠。”
She found a cute one-bedroom with around 400 square feet in a small Park Slope co-op building on Eighth Avenue. The asking price was $299,000, monthly maintenance in the low $500s.
她找到一套温馨的单卧室公寓，面积大约400平方英尺（约37.2平方米），位于第八大道上一栋公园坡的小型合作公寓楼里。这套公寓要价是29.9万美元（约合人民币185.8万元），每月维护费最低要500多美元（约合人民币3000多元）。
But the tiny kitchen had a half-size refrigerator and little counter space. “I was so charmed that I was telling myself crazy things,” Ms. Goldstein said. “Like, my mom lives so close, I can use her fridge if I want to cook a big meal and don’t have the room to store a bird in my fridge.”
但其中的小厨房里虽有一台单开门的冰箱，却基本没有料理台。“我对房子太着迷了，甚至冒出了一些疯狂的想法，”戈德斯坦说，“比如，反正我妈妈住得那么近，如果我想做一顿大餐而冰箱里连只鸡都放不下的话，我可以去用她的冰箱。”
Ms. Goldstein offered the asking price. “She was weighing the size against the location,” Mr. Lewis said. But someone else came along and bought the place for $307,000.
戈德斯坦按公寓的售价报了价。“她在权衡公寓的面积和所处地段，”刘易斯说。但有人捷足先登，以30.7万美元（约合人民币190.7万元）买下了那里。
In hindsight, Ms. Goldstein said, her plans to store her overflow at her mother’s apartment “would have been insane.”
事后一想，戈尔茨坦说，把放不下的东西存在母亲的公寓里，这种想法“该有多么荒唐”。
A two-bedroom co-op in a four-story Kensington building on Avenue C had the kind of exposed brick wall Ms. Goldstein loved, and 700 sunny square feet. The asking price was $275,000; monthly maintenance was about $675. “I was totally seduced,” Ms. Goldstein said.
在肯辛顿C大道上一栋四层高的大楼里，一套带两间卧室的合作公寓不但具备戈德斯坦喜欢的那种裸露砖墙，而且有700英尺（约65平方米）阳光明媚的空间。这套公寓要价27.5万美元（约合人民币171万元）；每月的维护费大约是675美元（约合人民币4194元）。“我彻底沦陷了，”戈德斯坦说。
In Kensington, “people are often surprised at how much they can still get for their money,” Mr. Lewis said. He drove Ms. Goldstein around the neighborhood.
在肯辛顿，“人们常常惊奇地发现，他们口袋里的钱还能买到这么大的地方，”刘易斯说。他带着戈德斯坦在这个社区里兜了一圈。
“During the day, in the car, as we were cruising by, I thought it was really cool,” she said. She liked the diverse population and “all these authentic hole-in-the-walls that I was so excited about.”
“白天，坐在车里四处看看，我觉得那里实在很不错，”她说。她喜欢这里的人口多样性，以及“这里所有简陋得很真实的餐馆和商店。”
But when she returned with her mother on foot at night, she had a “really weird experience,” she said. “Everyone on the street was a middle-aged man.” When the two entered a restaurant, “the whole restaurant stopped and everyone looked at me and my mom.”
但是当她与母亲夜间再次步行回到这里时，她遭遇了一些“十分怪异的事，”她说，“街上每个人都是中年男人。”而两人走入某间餐厅的一刹那，“整个餐厅里都安静了下来，人人都瞧着我和妈妈。”
That apartment soon sold for $300,000.
那套公寓很快以30万美元（约合人民币186万元）的价格卖了出去。
Crown Heights was another neighborhood that seemed to offer a lot for the money. “So many people that I know live there now,” Ms. Goldstein said. “People have been raving about this mystical Crown Heights.”
皇冠高地(Crown Heights)是另一个看起来房价很实惠的社区。“好多我认识的人现在都住那儿，”戈德斯坦说，“人们对于这个神秘的皇冠高地众说纷纭。”
At an open house there, she saw a pretty one-bedroom with around 700 square feet in an elevator building that began life as a hotel in 1928, which explained the ornate lobby. She heard someone say that it would “always be hot in the apartment because it was on the top floor,” Ms. Goldstein said. Maybe, but the advantage was no clomping upstairs neighbors.
有一次在那里看房，戈德斯坦参观了一套漂亮的单卧室公寓，面积大约700平方英尺（约65平方米），位于一栋电梯楼内。那栋大楼于1928年投入使用，曾是一座酒店，所以带有华丽的大堂。她听人说，“这套公寓住着太热了，因为是在最顶层，”戈德斯坦说。也许吧，但优点在于，也不会有邻居在楼上踱来踱去了。
“The floors have so much character,” she said. “There are all these colors in the wood.”
“那套公寓的地板太有特色了，”她说，“木头上色彩斑斓的。”
Ms. Goldstein was “amazed and shocked” at the listing price of $249,000. Maintenance was $425 a month, electricity included. The place was a block away from the homes of three of her friends.
听到房价是24.9万美元（约合人民币155万元），戈德斯坦感到“惊奇和震撼”。维护费是每月425美元（约合人民币2640元），还包电费。从此地到她三个朋友的家，只有一条街区之隔。
“There was so little on the market in my price range,” she said. “I became so competitive.” She offered $280,000.
“售价在我承受范围之内的房子，市场上并没有多少套，”她说，“所以我得努力去争取。”她出了28万美元（约合人民币174万元）的价格。
Right now, Mr. Lewis said, “it’s hard to win; if you like an apartment, you can ensure that 20 or 30 other people like it.”
就目前的情况来看，刘易斯说，“胜算不大；如果你看中一套公寓，你就可以确定，还有二、三十个人也看中了。”
But Ms. Goldstein did win. She closed in the winter, and is slowly moving in with the help of her father and his car. She is having some painting and repair work done, such as replacing the missing radiator in the living room.
不过，戈德斯坦真的在竞价中胜出了。她于当年冬天做了交割，然后由父亲开车帮忙，正在慢慢搬家。她还要做一些粉刷和修理的活儿，比如把客厅里失踪的暖气片重新装好。