CENTREVILLE, Md. — The two-story home Vicco von Voss built for his family here is more like a giant piece of custom-made furniture than a house.
马里兰州森特维尔——维科·冯·沃斯(Vicco von Voss)在这里为家人建造的两层住宅，更像是一件巨大的定制家具，而非房屋。
For starters, there are no nails in the frame; it’s held together entirely with wooden pegs in an impressive display of mortise-and-tenon joinery. And every plank and beam was milled on site by hand, most from fallen trees collected nearby and salvaged.
首先，建筑框架上没用一根钉子；所有构件完全是由木榫接合的，展现出令人叹为观止的榫卯细木工艺。而且，每根木板和横梁，都是在现场手工加工的，多数木材来自从周围收集而来并回收利用的倒塌树木。
So it will come as no surprise that it took a little longer to build than the average house. In fact, after 10 years, it’s still a work in progress.
无怪乎这栋房子的修建时间比一般住宅稍长一些了。事实上，十年过去了，它依然是一项在建工程。
Mr. von Voss, 46, began dreaming about it in the late ’90s, when he was in his 20s. A furniture maker from Hamburg, Germany, he was working to establish his business at the time, and was living as cheaply as possible on the Eastern Shore of Maryland in a one-room, 110-square-foot cabin he built himself. It had neither electricity nor running water; a small wood-burning stove provided heat (and hot water, if there was enough left in the 55-gallon cistern for an occasional shower).
维科现年46岁，他从90年代末——也就是他20来岁的时候起，就梦想着建造一所这样的房子。那时候，作为一名来自德国汉堡的家具工匠，他正忙于创立自己的事业，同时尽可能压缩生活成本，平时就居住在马里兰州东海岸的一间自建小屋里。那栋小屋只有一个房间，面积110平方英尺（约合10平方米），既不通电，也没有自来水；有一座小燃木炉用来取暖（以及烧热水，只要他那用于收集零星雨水的55加仑[约合0.2立方米]蓄水池里攒了足够的水）。
But there was a loft bed under a skylight, and that was where he began mapping out the blueprint in his head, he said, “down to the very last inch.” Inspired by Frank Lloyd Wright’s work and the barns in the surrounding countryside, he envisioned a light-filled wooden structure that would blend in with the trees.
不过，小屋的天窗之下设有一张高架床。他说，正是在那张床上，他在脑海里勾勒出了这幅蓝图的“每一处细节”。是弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)的作品及周边乡间的谷仓给了他灵感，他构想出了一座采光充足、可以同丛林融为一体的木结构建筑。
By the time he met his wife a decade later, the house was partly built, but money was still tight, so he was renting it out and living in the cabin.
等到十年后，他结识自己的妻子时，房屋已经部分建好了，不过资金依然紧张，因此他把这栋房子租了出去，自己依然住在原来的小屋里。
Jacqueline von Voss, an acupuncturist and holistic health practitioner who is now 37, wasn’t put off by his rustic living conditions. In fact, they were part of what won her over.
现年37岁的杰奎琳·冯·沃斯(Jacqueline von Voss)是一名针灸医师兼综合健康咨询师。那时候，她并没有因为维科粗陋的生活条件而退缩。事实上，这正是令她芳心暗许的部分原因。
“I had followed my head for so long, living in Boston and Philadelphia and building my business,” she said. “But when I met Vicco and stayed in the cabin, something fell into gear.
“这么多年来，我一直听从自己的理智，住在波士顿和费城，开创自己的事业，”她说，“但是当我遇见维科、并在小屋里住下来后，感觉生活就像有了新的意义。”
“I just realized, this is my person and this is my place. They both felt like home to me.”
“我突然意识到，这就是属于我的人，这就是属于我的地方。他们都给了我家的感觉。”
Soon after, the couple married and moved into the half-finished house. And construction proceeded, at its own leisurely pace.
很快，两个人就结了婚，搬进完工一半的房子里。施工进度则继续不疾不徐、悠哉悠哉地向前进行着。
With hundreds of varieties of trees contributing to the design – Eastern white pine, cherry, cypress, swamp maple, cedar and oak, among others – it wasn’t always easy to decide where each piece should go.
由于设计过程中用到了几百种木材——包括东方白松木、樱桃木、柏木、红枫木、雪松木、橡木等，要决定每种木材应该用在什么地方，并不总是那么容易。
“I let the wood speak to me,” said Mr. von Voss, who used aromatic cedar in the bathroom and cherry for the rafters of the barrel-vaulted ceiling. “You might be looking everywhere for the right piece of wood, and it is usually right in front of you. But you have to wait for it.”
“我会让木材自己说话，”维科说。他将香气宜人的雪松木用在浴室，将樱桃木做成筒形拱顶天花板的椽条，“你可能会到处寻找合适的木材，而它往往就在你的眼前。但你必须敬候它。”
And all of it had to be aged three years per inch, so the boards could “expand and contract through the seasons,” Mr. von Voss said. “Wood is just like wine that way.”
木板每厚一英寸，就必须多风干三年，这样一来，板子就能“根据季节的变化膨胀和收缩，”维科说，“从这个角度讲，木料就像葡萄酒一样。”
But some things won’t wait on the wood.
但是，有些事是等不了那么久的。
“There were a few things I insisted on before moving in,” Ms. von Voss said. “One was a door for the bathroom.”
“有那么几件事，我坚持要在搬进去之前完成，”杰奎琳说，“其中一件就是，浴室要装一扇门。”
Another thing that couldn’t wait was a door to the nursery. Four years ago, when she was eight months pregnant with their daughter, Ella, Ms. von Voss was eager for her husband to finish the door so he could put up the drywall and get the rest of the nursery ready in time.
还有一件事情不能等，那就是育儿室的门。四年前，杰奎琳怀着女儿艾拉(Ella)，眼看已有八个月身孕，所以她急着让丈夫把门装好，这样他就可以安上石膏墙板，及时把育儿室的其余部分装修好了。
“When Vicco goes into his artistic realm,” she said, “the business side of me sometimes has to come in and say, ‘Yes, yes, I know you’re working on a masterpiece, but you also have to get it done.' ”
“当维科一头扎进他的艺术世界时，”她说，“我的生意头脑有时就会跳出来说，‘好吧，好吧，我知道你在雕琢一件杰作，但你总归得把它完成才行’。”
Nevertheless, Mr. von Voss spent weeks carving the cherry and yellow wood for that door, and fitting the pieces together just so. “She was nesting,” he said. “But I knew I couldn’t rush this door.”
尽管如此，维科还是花了好几个星期的时间，来雕刻这扇樱桃木和美洲香槐木制的门，又用了好几天时间连接这些构件。“她那时是在为生产做准备（nesting，孕妇的一种本能行为，表现为想为即将出生的小宝宝张罗好一切——译注），”他说，“但是我知道，做这扇门不能操之过急。”