Sexual abuse of students at an elite prep school in Rhode Island was so rampant in the 1970s and ’80s that it created a “private hell” for some students, investigators reported on Thursday, describing an atmosphere of terror in which some staff members committed assaults for years before being forced out.
调查人员周四汇报，七八十年代在罗德岛一所精英预科学校里，性侵学生的现象非常猖獗，以致那里成了部分学生的“私人地狱”。在这种恐怖氛围中，一些教职工长年侵犯学生，直到最后被开除。
The investigation found that at least 51 students were abused by employees of St. George’s School, a prestigious boarding and day school near Newport, and at least 10 others by fellow students — and that the true numbers are probably significantly higher.
调查发现，至少51名学生受到圣乔治学校(St. George’s School)雇员的侵犯，且另有至少10名学生受到同学的侵犯。颇具声望的圣乔治学校位于纽波特附近，可寄宿，可走读。调查人员还表示，真实的人数很可能远高于此。
“Many of these students remember St. George’s as a place where their abusers created a kind of private hell for them — a place where they suffered trauma and emotional wounds that, for many, remain unhealed,” Martin F. Murphy, the leader of the investigation, wrote in a nearly 400-page report documenting the findings.
“在很多学生的记忆里，圣乔治是一个施虐者给他们制造了一种私人地狱的地方，一个他们遭受精神创伤和情感伤害的地方，对很多人来说，伤口还没愈合，”牵头进行调查的马丁·F·墨菲(Martin F. Murphy)在一份近400页长的记录调查结果的报告中写道。
A single person victimized more than half the confirmed victims, at least 31: an athletic trainer and coach named Al Gibbs. About one-fifth of all the girls who attended St. George’s in the 1970s told investigators that they had been raped or suffered other forms of sexual abuse by Mr. Gibbs, who was fired for sexual misconduct in 1980 and died in 1996.
其中一个人，便侵犯了已经证实的受害者中一半以上的人，即至少31人。此人叫阿尔·吉布斯(Al Gibbs)，是体育训练员兼教练。七十年代在圣乔治学校就读过的女生中，约五分之一的人对调查人员表示，她们曾被吉布斯强奸，或遭到他其他形式的性侵。吉布斯1980年因性行为不端被开除，后于1996年去世。
“We expect the number of women actually abused by Gibbs substantially exceeds the reported figure,” wrote Mr. Murphy, a partner in the law firm Foley Hoag in Boston, noting that most sexual assault survivors are reluctant to report the crimes.
“我们预计，吉布斯实际侵犯女性的人数，远远超过报告显示的人数，”身为波士顿弗雷-霍格律所(Foley Hoag)合伙人的墨菲写道。他指出，大多数性侵害幸存者不愿举报相关罪行。
“These are just the first-hand accounts,” he said. “Many students with whom we spoke indicated that friends had similar experiences, but would not be contacting us.”
“这些只是第一手资料，”他说。“和我们交谈过的许多学生表示，自己的一些朋友也有类似的经历，但不愿联系我们。”
St. George’s and an organization of abuse survivors, SGS for Healing, commissioned Foley Hoag to conduct the investigation after a series of painful revelations by former students now in middle age. St. George’s is one of several prominent prep schools to be hit by accusations of sexual abuse in recent years, many of them dating to the 1970s and 80s.
一些曾在该校就读，现在已届中年的学生，痛苦地揭开了昔日的伤疤。随后，圣乔治学校及性侵受害人组织圣乔治愈合协会(SGS for Healing)委托弗雷-霍格律所展开了调查。若干知名预科学校近年来卷入了性侵指控，圣乔治只是其中之一，许多指控可以追溯到七八十年代。
In the past, survivors have accused St. George’s of mistreating them when they came forward, and the report notes that the school gave Mr. Gibbs a letter of recommendation and paid him an annual stipend after firing him. In some cases, the school became aware of sexual misconduct and dismissed employees, but did not report them to law enforcement.
以前，受害人曾多次指控圣乔治在他们站出来的时候以不公平的方式对待他们。调查报告则指出，这所学校解雇吉布斯后给他写了推荐信，还向其支付了年度津贴。在某些情况下，该校注意到了性行为不端的情况，并开除了一些雇员，但并未向执法部门举报。
“For the survivors of sexual misconduct who came forward to share their stories, we are deeply grateful for your extraordinary courage and we apologize again for the suffering you endured,” Leslie Heaney, chairwoman of the school’s board of trustees, said in a statement.
“站出来分享自身经历的那些性侵受害者们，我们对你们的超凡勇气深表感激，并就你们遭遇的苦难再次道歉，”该校董事会主席莱斯利·希尼女士(Leslie Heaney)在一份声明中表示。