Dan Fried, a 47-year-old videographer who has Type 1 diabetes, never made it to the diner to meet his brother. As he drove through New Jersey that night in November 2010, he said his blood sugar fell and he became disoriented. He pulled his van to the side of the road, where state troopers, who had received a call about an erratic driver, found him slumped behind the wheel, barely coherent.
患有I型糖尿病的47岁摄像师丹·弗里德(Dan Fried)没能去饭店见他的兄弟。2010年11月的一天晚上，当他驾车穿过新泽西时，忽然感到血糖降低、思维混乱。他把面包车停靠在路边。有人报警说路上有一名行为异常的司机，接到报警的州警察发现弗里德趴在方向盘上，一副稀里糊涂的样子。
Believing Mr. Fried to be intoxicated and seemingly uncooperative, the troopers tried to frisk and handcuff him. In the scuffle, he broke his wrist. He was wearing a bracelet that identified him as a diabetic.
州警断定弗里德先生喝高了，加上他看起来还很不配合，便试图搜身并铐住他。在争斗过程中，弗里德扭断了手腕。他戴着的手链显示他是一名糖尿病患者。
“I was very upset at the whole thing,” he said in an interview. Mr. Fried filed a lawsuit alleging civil rights violations. The state attorney general declined to comment on pending litigation.
“整件事让我郁闷极了，”他在采访中谈到。弗里德先生就民事权利被侵犯提出了诉讼。州检察长拒绝讨论此未决案件。
Sudden bouts of low blood sugar, or hypoglycemia, can lead to confusion, delayed reaction, visual disturbances or loss of consciousness. Even in the absence of low blood sugar, people with diabetes may have impaired vision or nerve function in the feet, which can affect driving.
血糖骤降——或低血糖症，会引发思维混乱、反应迟钝、视觉障碍或意识丧失。就算没有低血糖，糖尿病病人的视力或足部神经功能也可能受损，影响驾驶能力。
Partly as a result, drivers with diabetes are 12 percent to 19 percent more likely than other drivers to have a car accident, studies show.
研究发现，这在一定程度上导致了糖尿病患者比一般人出交通事故的概率高12-19%。
A study of 202 people with diabetes who were taking insulin found that about 60 percent of participants never tested their blood glucose levels before driving. Most participants said they would stop driving if they began to feel symptoms of hypoglycemia, but it can be difficult to recognize milder symptoms, such as blurry vision, sweating or feeling tired or irritable, said Dr. Daniel Lorber, director of endocrinology at New York Hospital Queens.
一项包含了202名使用胰岛素的糖尿病患者的研究显示，他们当中60%的人在开车前都不会测自己的血糖水平。大部分参与者说如果感觉到低血糖症状，他们就不开了。“但是轻微的症状是很难发觉的，比如视觉模糊、出汗、疲劳或易怒，”纽约皇后医院(New York Hospital Queens)内分泌科科长丹尼尔·洛伯(Daniel Lorber)医生说。
“If it drops further, then you get into some severe thinking and judgment issues, and that’s what we’re concerned about,” he said. “You could pass out or have a seizure.”
“如果血糖继续降低，你的思考和决断能力将出现严重问题，这正是我们所担心的。”他说，“你可能晕过去，也可能发生抽搐。”
Awareness of the problem is surprisingly limited. A study in 2003 that surveyed people with diabetes in seven American and four European cities found that half of those with Type 1 and three-fourths of those with Type 2 diabetes reported that their doctors had never told them about the dangers of hypoglycemia and driving.
令人惊讶的是，问题的严重性并没有得到足够重视。2003年，一项包括了美国7个城市和欧洲4个城市糖尿病患者的调查显示，一半I型糖尿病人和四分之三II型糖尿病患者称医生从未警告过他们低血糖在驾驶中的危险性。
While most accidents related to diabetes complications happen to a small group of people with Type 1 diabetes, who need to take insulin, people with Type 2 diabetes are also at risk.
尽管大多数因糖尿病并发症引起的交通事故只发生在小部分I型糖尿病患者中——因为他们需要使用胰岛素，但II型糖尿病也一样有风险。
An analysis of American insurance claims, published in November in the journal Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism, focused on people with Type 2 diabetes who were taking a diabetes drug other than insulin. It found that drivers under age 65 who had been treated for hypoglycemia were 40 percent more likely to have had a motor vehicle accident than those who had not had hypoglycemic episodes.
一份关于美国保险索赔的分析报告发表在了2012年11月的《糖尿病、肥胖与代谢》(Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism)杂志上。研究主要针对使用非胰岛素类糖尿病药物的II型糖尿病人。分析发现，65岁以下的司机中，曾治疗过低血糖的比没有过低血糖经历的人发生机动车事故的概率高40%。
“Up until now, most people assumed that diabetes-related driving accidents were caused by insulin therapy,” said Dr. Brian Frier at the University of Edinburgh and an author of the study. They didn’t think “people on other therapies would cause an accident through hypoglycemia.”
“直到现在，很多人还认为与糖尿病有关的交通事故是由胰岛素疗法引起，”文章作者、英国爱丁堡大学(University of Edinburgh)的布赖恩·弗里耶(Brian Frier)博士说，“他们以为用其他疗法治病的患者，低血糖发作时不会出车祸。”
Dr. Frier noted that a class of diabetes drugs called sulfonylureas, which stimulate the pancreas to release insulin, may be especially likely to trigger hypoglycemia, particularly longer-acting sulfonylureas like the drug glyburide. Shorter-acting drugs in this class, including glipizide and gliclazide, may be safer for drivers with diabetes, he said.
弗里耶博士提到了一类叫做磺酰脲类(sulfonylureas)的糖尿病药物。它们刺激胰腺释放胰岛素，特别有可能诱发低血糖。诸如格列本脲(glyburide)的长效药物尤其需要注意。而短效磺酰脲类药物，如格列吡嗪(glipizide)和格列齐特(gliclazide)对糖尿病司机而言更安全一些。
Drivers at risk for hypoglycemia also “have a responsibility to make sure that their blood glucose level is not too low,” said Dr. Ned Kennedy of the Cleveland Clinic. He advised drivers with low blood sugar to eat something sugary and to wait 15 minutes and check again. “Just taking the time to do that could save them a lot of trouble and prevent them from being a danger to themselves or to other people” on the road, he said.
可能低血糖的司机“有责任确定自己的血糖水平不是太低”，克利夫兰诊所(Cleveland Clinic)的内德·肯尼迪(Ned Kennedy)医生说。他建议低血糖的司机吃些含糖的东西，15分钟后再测一次。“花点儿时间做这件事能为他们省去诸多麻烦，避免成为威胁自身及他人安全的马路杀手，”他说。
Daniel Cox, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Virginia Health System, and his colleagues have developed a program called Blood Glucose Awareness Training, which teaches people to recognize the physical signs of low blood sugar.
弗吉尼亚大学医学院(University of Virginia Health System)精神病学教授丹尼尔·考克斯(Daniel Cox)及同事创建了名为“血糖觉察训练” (Blood Glucose Awareness Training)的项目，教人们如何识别低血糖体征。
Dr. Cox also is enrolling patients in Diabetes Driving, a study that aims to identify and prevent other risks associated with drivers who have diabetes.
考克斯教授还让病人参与“糖尿病患者驾驶”研究，目的在于发现并预防司机因患糖尿病而可能出现的其他危险。
The vast majority of accidents have nothing to do with diabetes, however, and Dr. Cox and other experts are wary of stigmatizing people with the disease. “We don’t want to isolate out diabetics as bad drivers,” he said.
不过，绝大多数交通事故都跟糖尿病没关系。考克斯教授和其他一些专家生怕给糖尿病患者“贴上标签”—— “我们不想孤立糖尿病人，说他们是坏司机，”他说。