HO CHI MINH CITY — He survived the deprivation of the Vietnamese countryside and decades of war, but Pham Van Dang, 70, lay dazed in his hospital bed, the stump of his freshly amputated leg sewn up like the seams of a leather bag.
胡志明市——他曾挺过越南农村的物资匮乏和几十年的战火，但是今年70岁的范文邓(Pham Van Dang)现在头晕脑胀地躺在医院的病床上，新截去的腿部被像皮袋子一样缝起来。
Mr. Dang and many younger patients in the diabetes ward here at Nguyen Tri Phuong Hospital are casualties of rising affluence, his doctor says.
他的医生说，住在阮知芳医院(Nguyen Tri Phuong Hospital)医院糖尿病病房里的范文邓和其他很多更年轻的病人，都是生活越来越富裕的受害者。
“I see more and more patients with diabetes,” said Dr. Tran Quang Khanh, who is chief of the endocrinology department, whose ward receives 20 new patients a day.
医生陈光庆(Tran Quang Khanh)说，“我看到的糖尿病人越来越多。”他是该医院内分泌科的负责人，该科的病房每天接受20名新病人。
The precise reasons for a spike in diabetes cases are hard to pin down — people are living longer, for one — but doctors in Vietnam say the prime culprits are “Westernization and urbanization.”
很难确定糖尿病患者激增的准确原因（其中一个原因是人们更加长寿了），但是越南的医生认为，主要原因是“西方化和城市化。”
“Now we have KFC and many fast-food restaurants,” Dr. Khanh said.
陈光庆医生称，“现在我们有肯德基和很多快餐店。”
In a country where limbs were once shattered by ordnance and land mines, hospitals in Vietnam are treating an alarming caseload of “diabetes foot,” an infection that often begins as a minor scrape but then develops into a gangrenous wound because the disease desensitizes patients and compromises the healing process.
在战争年代的越南，人的肢体经常被炸弹和地雷炸断，但现在越南医院里“糖尿病足”数量惊人，感染往往是从一个小伤口开始，之后腐烂成一个大伤口，因为糖尿病会让病人对伤口麻痹，影响复原过程。
In the most severe cases, legs are amputated. If the limb can be spared, doctors perform a debridement, a grisly operation that seems more fitting for the trenches of Verdun than for a dynamic, modern metropolis like Ho Chi Minh City. The procedure involves cutting away rotting flesh and is performed several times a day at Nguyen Tri Phuong and four other hospitals in Ho Chi Minh City that have wards dedicated to diabetes care.
最严重的病例需要截肢。如果能保留肢体，医生会实施清创手术，这种可怕的手术或许更适合当年的凡尔登战壕（第一次世界大战期间发生血腥厮杀的战场——译注），而不是胡志明市这样充满活力的现代都市。手术要切掉腐烂的肉，在胡志明市的阮知芳医院和其他四家设有糖尿病病房的医院，每天都会多次做这样的手术。
Doctors and government officials say no statistics are available on the number of amputations linked to diabetes in Vietnam, but Dr. Thy Khue, a pioneering diabetes researcher in the country, says the problem is “severe” and a particular strain on the health system because patients with amputated feet or legs tend to stay in hospitals for weeks. Diabetes foot exists in the West, but rates may be higher in Vietnam and other tropical countries because people tend to wear sandals outside and go barefoot around the house, leaving their feet more susceptible to injury, Dr. Khue said.
医生和政府官员称，越南没有因糖尿病而被截肢的病人的统计数字，但是越南的糖尿病研究先驱泰奎(Thy Khue)医生称，问题“很严重”，而且由于截去腿或者脚的病人要在医院住院几周，这给医疗体系带来特别大的压力。泰奎称，“糖尿病足”在西方也是存在的，但是在越南和其他热带国家这种病的发病率可能更高，因为这里的人喜欢在外面穿凉鞋，在屋子里赤脚走路，使他们的双脚更容易受伤。
Diabetes rates are surging in many countries, but it is a particularly poignant paradox that, after so many years of war in Vietnam, peace is now partly marred by the afflictions of rising prosperity: clogged hearts, obesity and diabetes.
糖尿病的发病率在很多国家都在激增，但是越南特别让人心酸的矛盾在于，在经历了多年的战火之后，现在和平又受到各种“富贵病”（心血管堵塞、肥胖症以及糖尿病）的困扰。
Official statistics in Vietnam show a vertiginous increase in Type 2 diabetes overall, the form of the disease that is linked to diet and lifestyle and in the West has reached epidemic levels, especially among the obese.
越南的官方统计数字显示，二型糖尿病数量发病率总体激增，这种糖尿病与饮食习惯和生活方式有关，在西方发病率已达到流行病的水平，特别是在肥胖症人群中。
From just 1 percent of the adult Vietnamese population in 1991 — the year the first nationwide survey of diabetes was done in Vietnam — the rate climbed to 6 percent last year. And in Ho Chi Minh City, a survey in 2010 estimated that 1 in 10 adults had the disease.
1991年越南对糖尿病进行首次全国调查，当时只有1%的成年越南人患有这种病，去年的发病率已升至6%。而在胡志明市，2010年的一项调查预计，有十分之一的成年人患有糖尿病。
“It’s not the disease of the very rich anymore,” Dr. Khue said. “Now poor and rich — everyone — can get diabetes.”
泰奎医生称，“这已经不再是富人才会患的疾病了。现在不管贫富，谁都可能患上糖尿病。”
Jesper Hoiland, senior vice president of Novo Nordisk, the world’s biggest maker of drugs to treat the disease, said the number of people with diabetes in Vietnam was expected to climb higher as the country’s economy continues to grow — and as more people adopt modern, urban lifestyles.
世界最大的糖尿病药物生产商诺和诺德公司(Novo Nordisk)高级副总裁杰斯珀·霍伊兰德(Jesper Hoiland)称，随着越南经济继续增长，随着更多越南人接受现代城市生活方式，预计该国患糖尿病的人数将继续上升。
“We are going to see a real pandemic in Vietnam in the coming years,” he said.
他说，“未来几年内，我们将看到越南出现真正的糖尿病大流行。”
The International Diabetes Federation, a group that keeps statistics on the disease, calculates that 371 million people were afflicted with diabetes worldwide last year. Four out of five people with the disease live in poor or middle-income countries like Egypt, Guyana or Vietnam, the federation said.
追踪糖尿病统计数据的组织——国际糖尿病联盟（International Diabetes Federation，简称IDF）估计，去年全球共有3.71亿糖尿病患者。该组织表示，五分之四的患者居住在埃及、圭亚那和越南等穷国或中等收入国家。
“In today’s world, many more people are dying from overeating than from starvation,” Mr. Hoiland said.
霍伊兰德说，“在当今世界上，因为吃得过多而走向死亡的人，比饿死的人多得多。”
Diabetes affects the body’s ability to manage sugar and can be brought under control with exercise, changes in diet and, ultimately, injections of insulin to regulate blood sugar levels. But symptoms, which include frequent thirst and urination and weight loss, often develop slowly, experts say, and many people have the disease for years without knowing it, especially in countries where health care systems are rudimentary.
糖尿病会影响人体管理糖分的机能，病情可以通过运动、改变饮食习惯和注射用来调节血糖值的胰岛素得到控制。但是专家们表示，这种病的症状（包括经常觉得口渴、想排尿和体重减轻）发展往往较慢，很多人得病多年还不知道，这种情况在医疗体系尚不健全的国家尤其突出。
The reason for the disparity in diabetes rates among nations — and among ethnic groups within nations — is related to genetic predisposition, diet and exercise, or lack of it, experts say.
专家们说，各国——乃至国内各民族——糖尿病发病率不同的现象，与人们的遗传情况、饮食习惯和运动（或者说缺乏运动）有关。
But doctors in Vietnam say the spike in diabetes has not been fully explained.
但越南的医生们表示，糖尿病发病率急剧增加的原因并未得到全面解释。
“Our patients are not obese. Some are very thin,” said Dr. Khanh.
陈光庆说，“我们的病人并不肥胖，有些人还非常瘦。”
Because of different body types, the threshold of what is considered obese is lower in Asia than in the West — obese patients in Asia can appear only mildly overweight by Western standards. But that still does not explain many of the cases he sees, Dr. Khanh said.
因为亚洲人与西方人的体型不同，亚洲的肥胖症门槛低于西方——按照西方标准，亚洲的肥胖症患者可能只被视为轻度超重。但是陈光庆说，这仍然无法解释他见过的很多病例。
During a reporter’s visit, a 26-year-old woman in skinny jeans and a plaid shirt, Lam Loc Mui, was diagnosed with diabetes.
在记者采访期间，一名身穿紧身牛仔裤和格子衬衫的26岁女性被确诊为糖尿病患者，她的名字叫做林禄梅(Lam Loc Mui)。
Ms. Mui, who was born in the provinces but works as a dental assistant in Ho Chi Minh City, is rail thin with a 27-inch waist.
林禄梅出生在农村，但现在在胡志明市担任牙医助理，她很清瘦，腰围只有27英寸（约合68.6厘米）。
“This came as a real shock,” she said. “I rarely eat sweet things.”
“这真的让我震惊，”她说。“我很少吃甜食。”
Dr. Khanh speculated that she could fall into the category of what experts call the “migratory effect.” Ms. Mui worked on a farm when she was young. Now in the city, she walks very little and exercises almost never.
陈光庆推测，她或许属于专家所谓的“移民效应”那一类。林禄梅小时候曾在农场劳动，可现在她住在城市里，很少走路，而且几乎从不运动。
Hans Duijf, the head of operations for Novo Nordisk in Thailand, said some patients who had grown up in the countryside become diabetic after a move to an urban environment with marginal changes to their diets.
诺和诺德（泰国）公司的业务主管汉斯·杜伊伊夫(Hans Duijf)说，有些患者在乡村长大，在搬到城市后患上糖尿病，而他们的饮食习惯只发生了少许变动。
“If your body is programmed to live off of very little food you have a much higher chance of getting diabetes with relatively small changes in lifestyle,” he said.
他说，“如果你的身体已经习惯于依靠少量食物，那么即便是相对较小的生活方式变化，也会大幅提高你患糖尿病的几率。”
Dr. Khue, the diabetes researcher, said another factor might be exposure to chemicals and pollution.
糖尿病研究者泰奎说，另一个因素可能是暴露于化学品和污染物。
None of those theories were comforting to Phu Thi Hong Thuy, a 48-year-old diabetic who sat in the ward listening to a doctor discuss with a reporter the possible causes of her condition.
对于48岁的糖尿病患者甫鸿翠(Phu Thi Hong Thuy)来说，这些理论都没有任何安慰作用。她坐在病房里，听医生和记者谈论她的病因。