Federal researchers on Wednesday reported the first broad national picture of progress against some of the most devastating complications of diabetes, which affects millions of Americans, finding that rates of heart attacks, strokes, kidney failure and amputations fell sharply over the past two decades.
糖尿病困扰着成千上万的美国人。周三，联邦机构的研究人员首次通报了全国范围内对抗最具破坏性的糖尿病并发症取得的总体进展，发现心肌梗死、中风、肾衰竭和截肢的几率在过去二十年里显著降低。
The biggest declines were in the rates of heart attacks and deaths from high blood sugar, which dropped by more than 60 percent from 1990 to 2010, the period studied. While researchers had had patchy indications that outcomes were improving for diabetic patients in recent years, the study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine, documents startling gains.
研究涉及的时间是从1990年到2010年。在这期间，下降最显著的是心肌梗死和死于高血糖的几率，降幅超过60%。尽管研究人员掌握的分布不均的迹象表明，最近几年糖尿病患者的结局一直在改善，但发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上的这项研究也记录了一些令人惊讶的进展。
“This is the first really credible, reliable data that demonstrates that all of the efforts at reducing risk have paid off,” said Dr. David M. Nathan, director of the Diabetes Center at Massachusetts General Hospital, who was not involved in the study. “Given that diabetes is the chronic epidemic of this millennium, this is a very important finding.”
“这是第一次有真正可信、准确的数据表明，降低风险的所有努力得到了回报，”未参与该研究的马萨诸塞州总医院糖尿病中心(Diabetes Center at Massachusetts General Hospital)主任戴维·M·内森(David M. Nathan)博士说，“考虑到糖尿病是这个千年的头号慢性流行病，这是非常重要的发现。”
The number of Americans with diabetes more than tripled over the period of the study and is now nearly 26 million. Nearly all the increase came from Type 2 diabetes, which is often related to obesity and is the more common form of the disease. An additional 79 million Americans have pre-diabetes, which means they are at high risk of developing the disease.
在研究涉及的时期里，美国的糖尿病患者人数增加了两倍多，现在接近2600万人。新增患者几乎都是II型糖尿病患者。II型糖尿病通常与肥胖有关，是一种更常见的糖尿病类型。另外还有7900万美国人患有前驱糖尿病，也就是说他们发展成糖尿病的风险很高。
Researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who wrote the study, estimate that diabetes and its complications account for about $176 billion in medical costs every year. The study measured outcomes for both Type 1 and Type 2.
该研究报告由来自疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的研究人员撰写。他们估计，在每年的医疗成本中，大约1760亿美元（约合1.1万亿元人民币）被用在了糖尿病及其并发症上。这项研究衡量了I型和II型糖尿病的结果。
Researchers said the declines were the fruit of years of efforts to improve the health of patients with Type 2 diabetes. Doctors are much better now at controlling the risk factors that can lead to complications — for example, using medications to control blood sugar, cholesterol and blood pressure — health experts said. What is more, a widespread push to educate patients has improved how they look after themselves. And a major effort among health care providers to track the progress of diabetes patients and help steer the ones who are getting off track has started to have an effect.
研究人员称，相关几率的下降是多年来致力于改善II型糖尿病患者健康的结果。健康专家称，医生现在能更好地控制可能会导致并发症的风险因素，比如用药物控制血糖、胆固醇和血压。而且，教育患者的广泛努力已经提高了他们照顾自己的能力。同时，医务人员会追踪糖尿病患者的进展，并帮助引导那些偏离轨道的人，这项大规模的行动已经开始见效。
“These results are very impressive,” said Dr. K. M. Venkat Narayan, professor of medicine and epidemiology at Emory University, who specializes in diabetes and was not involved in the study. “There is strong evidence that we’re implementing better care for patients with diabetes. Awareness has increased tremendously, and there’s been a great deal of emphasis on coordinated care in health care settings.”
“这些结果相当不错，”艾默里大学(Emory University)药学和流行病学教授K·M·文卡特·纳拉扬(K. M. Venkat Narayan)博士说，“现在有充分证据表明，我们正在更好地照料糖尿病患者。人们的意识大大地增加了，医疗保健背景下的协调护理非常受重视。”纳拉扬教授是糖尿病方面的专家，没有参与研究。
Edward W. Gregg, a senior epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the lead author of the study, said researchers used four federal data sets — the National Health Interview Survey, the National Hospital Discharge Survey, the United States Renal Data System, and Vital Statistics — over a 20-year period to give a comprehensive picture of diabetes outcomes.
疾病控制与预防中心资深流行病学家、该研究报告的第一作者爱德华·W·格雷格(Edward W. Gregg)说，为了全面了解糖尿病的后果，研究人员使用了四个数据集——国民健康访问调查(National Health Interview Survey)、全国医院出院调查(National Hospital Discharge Survey)、美国肾脏数据登记系统(United States Renal Data System)和人口统计(Vital Statistics)，时间跨度长达20年。
Dr. Gregg said the study relied on large sample sizes, including hundreds of thousands of diabetics who had heart attacks, and thousands who died from high blood sugar.
格雷格博士表示，该研究依靠大量的样本，其中包括了发生过心肌梗死的数十万人样本，以及死于高血糖的数千人样本。
“This is the first time we’ve put the full spectrum together over a long period of time,” Dr. Gregg said. He pointed out that heart attacks, which used to be the most common complication by far, had dropped down to the level of stroke, which also fell.
“这是我们首次将很长一段时间内的全部数据汇集起来，”格雷格博士说。他指出，心脏病曾远超其他各种并发症成为最常见的糖尿病并发症，现在已经降到了与中风同样的水平。中风的发病率也有所下降。
“We were a bit surprised by the magnitude of the decrease in heart attack and stroke,” he said.
“心肌梗死和中风发病率下降的幅度之大，让我们有点意外，”他说。
Beyond the declines in the rates of heart attacks and deaths from high blood sugar, the study found that the rates of strokes and lower extremity amputations — including upper and lower legs, ankles, feet, and toes — fell by about half. Rates for end-stage kidney failure dropped by about 30 percent. The study did not measure blindness, another critical diabetes complication.
除心肌梗死和高血糖致死的几率降低外，该研究还发现，中风和下肢截肢——包括大腿和小腿、脚踝、脚和脚趾截肢——的几率降低了大约一半。终末期肾衰竭的几率下降了大约30%。该研究没有考察另一种关键的糖尿病并发症——失明。
Dr. Gregg cautioned, however, that the number of Americans with diabetes continued to rise. “We have to find a way to replicate these successes, to transfer that knowledge into preventing the disease to begin with,” he said.
然而，格雷格博士也提醒，美国的糖尿病患者人数仍在增加。“我们必须找到复制这些成功的办法，首先是把相关知识运用到糖尿病预防中，”他说。
The declines in rates of complications began around 1995 and continued gradually, but steadily, over time, the data show. What drove the outcomes varied by the complication, Dr. Gregg said. Improved blood sugar control has made a difference, especially in reducing the rate of amputations and end-stage kidney disease. Declines in smoking and the rising use of statins to lower cholesterol and of other medications to control blood pressure contributed to the declines in heart attacks and strokes.
数据显示，并发症发病率的下降始于1995年前后，随着时间的推移，这种下降一直在缓慢但却稳定地持续着。格雷格博士表示，导致这种结果出现的因素因并发症种类的不同而不同。更好地控制血糖起到了作用。控制血糖在降低截肢和终末期肾病的几率方面，尤其有效。吸烟的减少，以及更多地使用他汀类药物降低胆固醇，更多地用其他药物控制血压，都是导致心肌梗死和中风发病率减小的因素。
Researchers noted that heart attacks had declined substantially for the general population as well, where the same factors were at work. But while people without diabetes saw a 31 percent decline since 1990, those with it experienced a 68 percent drop.
研究人员指出，普通人群心肌梗死发病率也出现了大幅下降，导致这种变化出现的原因相同。但尽管自1990年以来，没有糖尿病的人的心肌梗死发病率减少了31%，有糖尿病的人的心肌梗死发病率却减少了68%。