It sounded so simple. I wanted to know what exhibitions will be shown at Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris this year, and consulted its Web site. Could I find the information there? No. I tried searching in English, then in French, and scoured every section of the site, even the least likely ones. Perhaps I could have pieced together the details eventually, but I wasn’t sure how.
这个任务听上去十分简单：我想知道巴黎蓬皮杜中心今年有哪些展览，就到它的网站上查。我能在那里找到这些资料吗？不能。我先后尝试在英文和法文内容中查找，搜遍了网站上的每一个栏目，哪怕是最不可能的栏目。也许我本来可以拼拼凑凑，最终得出具体细节，但我不知道该怎么拼凑。
A similar thing happened when I logged on to Tate’s redesigned site hoping to book tickets for a film screening at Tate Modern. Trawling through the site to find that particular screening turned out to be unexpectedly complicated. Nor are Tate and Centre Pompidou the only offenders. Just think of how often you feel irritated or flummoxed by an inexplicably confusing Web site.
当我登录到泰特改版后的网站，希望能预定泰特现代美术馆某场电影的门票时，类似的事情又出现了：在泰特网站上找到这个页面出人意料得复杂。而且存在这种问题的不只是泰特和蓬皮杜中心。只要回想一下，你有多少次被混乱不堪的网站搅得心烦意乱，不知如何是好，你就会赞同我的说法。
Shoddy Web site design is a curse of modern life. The more dependent we have become on the Internet for information, the likelier we are to suffer from its design deficiencies. Bad design can be infuriating, inconvenient or damaging in any field. But it is especially frustrating in areas like this where many of us find the technology so inscrutable that we tend to blame ourselves for being baffled, because we feel unable to judge whether the design is at fault. So what does constitute good and bad Web site design?
糟糕的网站设计是现代生活的诅咒。我们越是依赖互联网获得信息，就越有可能受制于网站的设计缺陷。糟糕的设计令人生气、带来不便或造成损害的地方有很多，但特别令人沮丧的是，当很多人发现网站在技术方面很高深时，他们倾向于责怪自己，因为觉得自己没有能力判断网站的设计是否存在过错。那么，好的网站设计是怎么样的，糟糕的设计又是怎么样的呢？
In principle, a well-designed Web site needs to deliver the same things as most other examples of good design by fulfilling its intended function efficiently and engagingly. On the efficiency front, given that the most important purpose of most Web sites is to enable us to access information, helping us to find it effortlessly is essential. Straightforward though this sounds, dispiritingly few sites manage to achieve it. A common mistake is to prioritize style over substance. Fashion and luxury brands often do so by using animation software, which produces luscious visual images that can take ages to upload. Louis Vuitton’s site is a particularly irksome example.
大体来说，好的网站设计需要做到的事情，跟大多数其他好的设计是一样的，即高效、有吸引力地实现它的预设功能。在效率方面，由于大多数网站最重要的目的就是让我们获得信息，那么，帮助我们毫不费力地找到信息就是必不可少的功能了。听上去虽然很简单，但实现了这个功能的网站却寥寥无几。网站设计的一个常见错误，就是在排列优先级时把形式放在了内容的前面。时尚和奢侈品牌网站往往用动画软件来制造甜美的视觉意象，但动画可能需要花很长的时间来加载，路易·威登(Louis Vuitton)的网站就是一个特别招人烦的例子。
Other sites fall prey to what we could call “technologyitis.” Their designers insist on using sophisticated technologies, which look dazzling when they show the sites to clients on their state-of-the-art computers, but considerably less so on older, cheaper machines with slower Internet connections, or on the cramped screens of phones.
而其他一些网站则落入了“技术癖”的陷阱。它们的设计师坚持使用比较复杂的技术，当在最先进的电脑上给客户展示网站时，这些技术看上去令人目眩神迷，但在比较陈旧、便宜的电脑上，或者是在网速比较慢，屏幕比较小的手机上时，网站的效果就大打折扣了。
But the principal problem with many Web sites is that their designers were neither rigorous nor imaginative enough in planning the way we will navigate them. Ideally, they should anticipate all of the individual items of information that we will wish to find, and how we might choose to combine them. They must then organize the site so that the requisite data is delivered promptly. If you find information swiftly and easily on a Web site, its designer has succeeded. But if you need to click on an inordinate number of buttons and links, or dither over what to do next, the designer has failed. Amazon’s site scores highly for navigational efficiency, but poorly in terms of the second criterion of good Web design, because it is far from engaging.
但是，很多网站最主要的问题，就是设计师在规划用户浏览网站的方式时既不够严谨，也缺乏想象力。在理想的情况下，他们应该预计到用户希望找到的所有信息是什么，以及用户希望这些信息以何种方式组合并呈现出来。然后，他们必须好好组织网站，以便迅速提供必要的数据。如果你能快速而轻松地在一个网站找到信息，那么它的设计者就是成功的。如果你需要点击过多的按钮和链接，还要费神思考下一步该怎么做，那么它的设计师就已经失败了。亚马逊网站的导航效率相当高，但是从好的网站设计的第二个条件来说，它的表现就比较差，因为它不够吸引人。
One site that combines both qualities belongs to the London restaurant Quo Vadis. The home page looks like the front page of an old-fashioned newspaper, and you simply click on the relevant section, like “Today’s Menus” or “Reservations,” to retrieve the information. The charm of the site, which was developed by the Web design group Thumbcrumble and the graphic designers Irving & Co., is that it shares the witty illustrative style of Quo Vadis’s menus, bills and the other elements of the visual identity it has adopted since the Scottish chef Jeremy Lee took over a year ago.
伦敦餐厅Quo Vadis的网站在这两个方面都表现得比较好。它的主页看上去像老式报纸的头版，你只需点击相关栏目，比如“今日菜单(Today’s Menus)”或“订餐(Reservations)”，就可以查看信息。这个网站由设计团队Thumbcrumble 和平面设计公司欧文公司(Irving & Co.)开发，它的魅力在于采用了诙谐的插画风格，跟Quo Vadis餐厅的视觉识别元素，比如菜单、账单等等保持了一致。自从苏格兰厨师杰里米·李(Jeremy Lee)一年前开始主理Quo Vadis以来，该餐厅就开始采用这种视觉识别元素。
All of the illustrations are by John Broadley, who has, as Mr. Lee put it, “an amazing sense of humor and a wonderfully dark streak.” He began by illustrating Quo Vadis’s menus in a cartoonish style of black and white figurative sketches depicting different aspects of the restaurant and the pleasures of eating. Dozens more drawings have since been made for the Web site, including illustrations of Quo Vadis, harvest rituals and decadent feasts.
网站上的所有插图都出自约翰·布罗德利(John Broadley)之手，李说他拥有“惊人的幽默感和奇妙的黑暗特质。”布罗德利最开始绘制的是Quo Vadis的菜单，他用卡通风格的黑白素描展示餐厅的不同层面以及饮食的乐趣。此后，他又为网站绘制了另外数十张图，描述了Quo Vadis、收获仪式和欢纵的盛宴等。
Beguiling though Quo Vadis’s site is, it contains relatively little data and has a limited number of clearly defined functions. The more information a site has to hold, the more challenging its design will be, especially if that data is complex in nature and time-sensitive: All of which makes the new Web site of the Milwaukee Police Department particularly impressive.
Quo Vadis网站虽然十分迷人，但它包含的数据却相对较少，明确界定的功能也不多。一个网站需要涵盖的信息越多，它的设计就越具挑战性，特别是在数据性质复杂，具有时效性的时候：这也正是密尔沃基警察署(Milwaukee Police Department)的新网站特别令人难忘的原因。
Designed by the communications group Cramer-Krasselt and the Web design consultancy LISS Interactive, the site condenses a labyrinth of archived information and breaking news about the M.P.D. into five sections. “The Source” is a live news feed on local police work, and “The Stats” features striking visualizations of crime statistics, like the murder rate and number of guns seized. “Most Wanted” is an interactive version of the traditional posters filled with mug shots of police suspects. “The Heroes” illustrates the impact of the M.P.D.’s work on Milwaukee, and “About” relays practical information like how to pay parking fines and file incident reports.
这个网站由传媒机构Cramer-Krasselt和网页设计顾问机构LISS Interactive设计，它像一座迷宫，聚结了和密尔沃基警察署有关的存档信息和突发新闻，总共分为五个部分。 “新闻”(The Source)是当地警务工作的实时新闻。“统计”(The Stats)是犯罪统计资料的可视化展示，比如谋杀率和查获的枪支数量，十分引人注目。“最高通缉”(Most Wanted)是传统的、贴着犯罪嫌疑人照片的通缉令的交互式版本。“英雄”(The Heroes)展示了警署工作给密尔沃基带来的影响。“信息”(About)则提供了一些实用信息，比如怎样缴纳违规停车罚款和填写事故报告等。
Stylistically, the site combines the crisp, no-nonsense typeface Helvetica with color photographs of the M.P.D. at work. As well as being an easily accessible source of useful information for local people, it presents a dynamic, yet realistic depiction of their police department in action.
从风格上说，这个网站把明快、严肃的Helvetica字体跟警署工作的彩色图片结合在一起。它既是当地群众轻松获得有用信息的一个来源，又提供了一幅真实而动态的警察部门写照。
As I began by grumbling about museum sites, it seems only fair to end by praising a promising one: the new Web site of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, which is to reopen in April after 10 years of renovation.
在本文的最开始，我批评了一些博物馆的网站，为了公平起见，在文章的最后，我也要称赞一个很有前途的网站：它就是荷兰国立博物馆(Rijksmuseum)的新网站；这座博物馆位于阿姆斯特丹，其主体建筑在进行过10多年的维修和翻新后，于今年4月重新开放。
Juxtaposing images of the building and of masterpieces from the museum’s collection with the spruce typography of its new visual identity developed by the Dutch designer Irma Boom, the site looks stunning. It is also organized so thoughtfully that it is remarkably easy to navigate. Let’s hope it stays that way as more information is loaded in the approach to the reopening.
网站并排陈列了博物馆建筑和馆藏杰作的图像，加上荷兰设计师伊尔玛·布恩(Irma Boom)新设计的视觉形象，排版潇洒整洁，效果令人惊艳。而且网站上的内容经过精心安排，导航非常容易。随着重新开馆的日子临近，越来越多的信息将会添加到这个网站上，让我们希望它还能继续保持自己的优点。