Sony’s Xperia Z smartphone, which went on sale in February, has already sold almost a million units by some estimates. But NTT DoCoMo, Japan’s largest mobile carrier, will soon stop selling it.
索尼(Sony)的Xperia Z智能手机是2月开始发售的，有人估计已经售出了将近一百万部。然而日本电信电话株式会社旗下的都科摩公司(NTT DoCoMo)作为日本最大的移动运营商，却很快要停售这款手机了。
The Xperia Z has not even hit the United States market yet. But it is already a has-been in Japan. DoCoMo has turned its attention to a new phone, the Sony Xperia A — a model with fewer features that has not won the stellar praise showered on the Z.
Xperia Z甚至都还没在美国开售。但在日本已经过气了。DoCoMo将注意力转向了新款的索尼Xperia A——它比Z功能特点少，也没有得到后者享受的热情赞誉。
As Sony banks on smartphones to turn around its struggling electronics business, it faces an increasingly bothersome obstacle at home: the demands of Japan’s powerful cellphone carriers, which remain obsessed with constant model updates.
正当索尼希望凭借智能手机来扭转其电子产品业务的颓势之时，它在本国正面临一道越来越烦人的障碍：日本强势手机运营商的需求，这些公司对不断地更新换代始终很着迷。
For years, Japan’s three largest mobile network companies have pressed phone makers here to update their handsets every three or four months, providing Japanese consumers a dazzling array of newfangled phones and features each season. Phones with digital TV broadcast receivers were once all the rage; a phone without it was never going to sell. Then it was thumbprint scans; you’d be hard pressed to find those on many phones today. The same is true of swiveling screens, and to a lesser extent, electronic wallets.
多年来，日本三大移动公司一直在向手机生产商施压，要它们每三到四个月对手机进行一次升级，让日本消费者在每一个季度都能有一大批新鲜出炉的手机和功能特性可选。搭载数码电视广播接收器的手机一度风靡；没有这个功能的手机根本卖不出去。然后就是指纹扫描；如今要找到这种手机就不容易了。旋转屏幕，以及相对没那么火爆的电子钱包，也是这个情况。
The fast-paced cycle is commonplace in Japanese marketing. Manufacturers deliver short runs of seasonal products to create buzz, analysts say. Pepsi Japan, for example, brings out limited-edition drinks each year: Salty Watermelon Pepsi or Pepsi Ice Cucumber. Nestle’s KitKat candy bar has cycled through an eye-popping array of limited editions in Japan: green tea, pumpkin, strawberry cheesecake, wasabi and soybean to name only a few. Even Japan’s best-selling pop group, AKB48, rotates through a cast of 67 members and on New Year’s Day released 16 versions of new and repackaged records.
快节奏的周期变化是日本市场的常态。分析师们说，制造商会推出季节性的短期产品制造舆论。比如百事日本(Pepsi Japan)每年都会推出限量版饮料：百事咸西瓜或百事冰黄瓜。雀巢(Nestle)奇巧巧克力条在日本有过令人眼花缭乱的限量版口味：绿茶、南瓜、草莓芝士蛋糕、山葵和大豆等等。连日本最热卖的流行组合AKB48都是在67名成员之间轮换的，在元旦推出了16个版本的新作和重新包装唱片。
“This is the worst of Japanese companies’ excessive obsession with the new,” said Yuichi Kogure, an associate professor in information technology policy at Aomori Public University and the author of several books on Japan’s cellphone industry. “But now the mobile phone makers are exhausted.”
青森公立大学(Aomori Public University)从事信息科技策略研究的副教授、以日本手机行业为题出版了多部著作的木暮祐一(Yuichi Kogure)说，“日本公司对追新的过度痴迷已经无以复加。但是现在移动电话生产商被耗干了。”
The constant feature roulette has helped carriers lure customers away from rival networks. But it taxes the research and development resources of Japan’s phone makers, who must meet the constant demands from carriers for new high-end features and frequent handset renewals.
功能特性的不断轮转可以让运营商留住顾客，让他们不要转到竞争对手的网络。但是这消耗了日本手机生产商的研发资源，它们被迫要去满足运营商对高端特性和频繁硬件更新的无休止需求。
Phone manufacturers here have found it impossible to achieve the economies of scale that would justify the high development costs and the slim profit margins. Because separate teams of designers at each handset maker race to build handsets from the ground up for each separate carrier, few phone makers have been able to develop a coherent global product strategy, analysts say.
这里的手机制造商发现，它们无法通过规模经济来负担高昂的开发成本，因而利润微薄。分析师说，每一个手机生产商都为不同运营商设立了专门的设计团队，从无到有地开发手机，很少有生产商能够发展出一套连贯一致的全球产品战略。
The unique pace of the Japanese cellphone market largely cuts it off from the rest of the world, making it difficult for a single manufacturer to make and market phones for both the Japanese and global markets, said Kenji E. Kushida, an expert on Japan’s information and communications technologies at Stanford.
斯坦福大学(Stanford)的日本信息和通讯技术专家栉田健儿(Kenji E. Kushida)说，日本手机市场的特有节奏使它和外界隔绝了开来，一个制造商在进行手机推广和营销时很难兼顾日本和全球市场。
“The Japanese market became somewhat like the Galápagos Islands. It had great biodiversity, but was so weak to outside species,” Mr. Kushida said. The scattershot efforts by Japanese handset designers could not compete with a single blockbuster product like Apple’s iPhone, Mr. Kushida said. It turned out that Japanese consumers didn’t want a new phone each season after all, he said, but one very well-designed one.
“日本市场某种程度上已经成了一座加拉帕戈斯岛。它有极佳的生物多样性，但是对外界物种的抵抗力极低，”栉田说。日本手机设计师的工作没有明确规划，无法跟苹果的iPhone这种单一的重磅产品相抗衡。而且他说，其实日本消费者也不是每个季度都想要一部新手机，而是想要一个设计非常精良的手机。
Since its release in 2008, the iPhone has been a best seller in Japan, becoming the most popular handset here.
自2008年发布以来，iPhone在日本很畅销，已经成为最受欢迎的一款手机。
Sony’s Xperia Z, which runs on the Android operating system, was shaping up to be Japan’s greatest challenger to the iPhone as well as to another global blockbuster, Samsung’s Galaxy series. The Xperia Z won rave reviews for its sleek aluminum case, sharp five-inch display, fast-capture camera and high-definition video.
使用Android操作系统的Xperia Z，本来正在对iPhone以及另一款全球热销的手机——三星(Samsung)Galaxy系列——构成威胁。Xperia Z的光滑铝制外壳、色彩锐利的5寸显示屏、有快速捕捉能力的摄像头以及高清视频功能引来了如潮的好评。
The Xperia Z has topped sales charts, and Sony’s chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, has repeatedly promoted the Xperia Z’s strong sales in Japan as one of the few bright spots in its money-losing electronics sector.
Xperia Z一度高居销量榜首位，索尼首席执行官平井一夫(Kazuo Hirai)多次指出，Xperia Z在日本的强劲销售势头已经成为亏损连连的电子产品领域不多的亮点之一。
Still, production of the Xperia Z has ceased for the Japanese market, and the model will no longer be available in Japan once stock runs out at retail stores across the country, both Sony and NTT DoCoMo said. The big question is whether Sony can develop a coherent global smartphone strategy without being distracted by the ever-changing needs of its home market. A lot rides on Sony’s gaining on its archrivals, Apple and Samsung, in the fast-growing smartphone market with the new Xperia A.
然而索尼和都科摩都表示，Xperia Z在日本市场已停产，等到各地零售店库存卖完后，这款手机就会从该市场消失。现在，首要问题在于，索尼能否发展出一个连贯的全球智能手机战略，不被千变幻化的本土市场需求干扰。索尼要想在高速发展的智能手机市场赶上主要竞争对手苹果和三星，Xperia A的表现至关重要。
Sony is also starting to shift its focus beyond Japan’s shores. On Tuesday in China it announced the Xperia Z Ultra, which Sony bills as the slimmest large-screen handset on the market. The company said it wasn’t sure when that model might sell in Japan.
此外索尼还在把重心转向海外。公司周二在中国发布了Xperia Z Ultra，索尼号称这是市场上最轻薄的大屏手机。但公司表示，不确定该型号什么时候在日本开售。
If Sony can score more successes overseas and gain market share there, it could start shifting the lopsided power dynamics between Japan's carriers and handset makers, analysts say. A wave of consolidation has shrunk the number of Japanese cellphone manufacturers to five, from 11 five years ago, bolstering the influence of the survivors.
分析师称，如果可以在海外取得更好的业绩，争取更多市场份额，索尼就可以改变日本运营商和设备生产商之间的不平等对弈局面。经过一轮并购后，日本手机生产商已经从五年前的11家减少到了现在的5家，巩固了存活下来的公司的影响力。
“I think more people here are starting to realize that the way its mobile phone industry works is unsustainable,” Kogure said. “And manufacturers like Sony have long realized that they can't remain beholden to the whims of the Japanese market.”
“我认为越来越多的人开始意识到，移动电话产业的运转是不具可持续性的，”木暮祐一说。“像索尼这样的厂家早就想明白了，不能总是迁就心血来潮的日本市场。”