China is celebrating its first gold medals of the Sochi Olympics after two dramatic victories on Thursday in the women’s 500-meter short-track speedskating and the women’s 1,000-meter long-track speedskating events.
中国选手在周四的短道速度滑冰女子500米比赛和速度滑冰女子1000米比赛中出人意料地取得胜利之后，中国正在庆祝其在索契冬季奥运会上夺得的头两枚金牌。
The first gold medal was won by Li Jianrou, 27, who coasted to victory as the only woman not to fall during a slippery 500-meter short-track speedskating final.
首枚金牌的获得者李坚柔，今年27岁，她是在这次短道速滑女子500米决赛中唯一一名没有摔倒的选手，因此顺利夺金。
By coming in first, Li, a first-time Olympian from the northeastern province of Jilin, ensured China’s continued gold-medal dominance in the event for the fourth consecutive Winter Olympics.
来自中国东北吉林省的李坚柔首次参加奥运会，她的夺冠使中国连续四年在冬奥会的这个项目上保持金牌优势。
Going into the final, there had been no apparent favorites after Wang Meng, the two-time defending champion and China’s most decorated Winter Olympian, broke her ankle in training last month and after Fan Kexin, Li’s teammate and two-time world champion, and Marianne St-Gelais of Canada, the 2010 Vancouver silver medalist, failed to advance in the semifinals.
上月，中国得胜次数最多并曾两次连续获得这项冬奥会比赛项目冠军的选手王濛在训练中踝关节受伤，而李坚柔的队友、曾两次夺得世界冠军的范可新，以及曾在2010年多伦多冬奥会上夺得银牌的加拿大选手玛丽安-圣格莱斯(Marianne St-Gelais)都在半决赛中被淘汰，因此进入决赛的人当中没有明显被看好的选手。
Li gained an advantage early on in the race after her three rivals crashed on the first lap of the 4.5-lap final. In the China Central Television broadcast of the race, the Chinese commentators can be heard shouting excitedly after Li, who had been trailing, sped past her rivals as they tumbled into the barriers.
李坚柔在比赛中较早地获得了优势，因为她的三个对手在这个总长4.5圈的比赛第一圈中都摔倒了。在中央电视台对这场比赛的直播中，能听到中国播音员兴奋的叫声，原来落后的李坚柔，在对手们撞向障碍物时超过了她们。
Her winning time was 45.263 seconds, nearly six seconds ahead of Arianna Fontana of Italy, the 2010 Vancouver bronze medalist, who came in at 51.250 seconds. Park Seung-Hi of South Korea took the bronze in 54.207 seconds despite an initial false start. Another Chinese skater, Liu Qiuhong, was fourth.
她以45.263秒夺得金牌，比意大利选手阿里安娜·丰塔纳(Arianna Fontana)的成绩快了将近6秒，丰塔纳曾在2010年多伦多冬奥会上以54.207秒的成绩摘得铜牌， 这次她的成绩是51.250秒。韩国选手朴升智(PARK Seung-Hi)虽然出师不利，但仍然夺得了铜牌。另一名中国速滑选手刘秋红名列第四。
Elise Christie of Britain, who was determined to have caused the crash, was disqualified minutes after the race.
英国选手埃莉斯·克里斯蒂(Elise Christie)被确定是引发这次集体碰撞的人，她在比赛结束几分钟之后被取消了资格。
“Regardless of how hard we had to work, today it appears it was all worth it because our great efforts helped win a gold medal for our country,” Li wrote on her microblog account. “I feel honored to be this lucky winner.”
李坚柔在她的微博上写道，“不管曾经付出了多少，但在今天看来都是值得的，因为我们的努力去为我们的祖国赢得了一枚金牌，我很荣幸去做这个幸运儿。” 
Hours later, Zhang Hong brought home the second gold medal for China, the country’s first ever long-track speedskating gold. It was a stunning victory for the 25-year-old athlete who competed in the seventh of 18 pairs and was considered by few to be a serious medal contender.
几个小时之后，张虹为中国夺得了第二枚金牌，这也是中国在长距离速滑项目中的第一枚金牌。对25岁的张虹来说，这是一次惊人的胜利，她一直在18对选手中排在第7位，没有几个人认为她能夺得奖牌。
But with a time of 1 minute, 14.02 seconds, Zhang surprised everyone, breaking the track record and just barely missing the Olympic record set by Chris Witty at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games by less than two-tenths of a second. The Dutch took the silver and bronze medals, with Ireen Wust coming in at 1 minute, 14.69 seconds and Margot Boer at 1 minute, 14.90 seconds.
但是张虹让所有人都大吃一惊，她以1分14.02秒的成绩夺冠，这是她本人最好的成绩，与克里斯·威蒂(Chris Witty)在2002年盐湖城冬奥会创下的该项目的奥运纪录只慢不到0.2秒。荷兰选手伊林·伍斯特(Ireen Wust)和玛戈·博埃尔(Margot Boer)分别以1分14.69秒和1分14.90秒的成绩夺得了银牌和铜牌。 
“Thank you everyone and thank you to everyone who has been following me,” Zhang wrote on her microblog account. “I hope that through me, more people can get to know winter sports and get to know speedskating.”
张虹在她的微博上写道，“感谢大家，感谢所有人对我的关注。我希望有更多人通过我，了解冰雪运动，了解速度滑冰。”
Although Chinese are generally more enthusiastic about the Summer Olympics, news of the gold medals at the Sochi Games generated great excitement online.
虽然中国人一般对夏季奥运会的热情更高，但索契冬奥会上选手夺金的消息仍在网上掀起一阵兴奋的热潮。
In response to Zhang’s message, one Chinese user wrote: “This is too brilliant! You’ve made history. Keep it up, China’s nü hanzi.” Nü hanzi is a trendy term that could be translated as a “female strongman.”
一名中国网友对张虹的微博评论道，“你已经进入历史了，太精彩了，中国的女汉子，加油！” “女汉子”是对“强大的女性”的一个流行说法。
Another user, responding to Li’s microblog post, said, “I was so excited when I was watching that I was brought to tears!”
另一名网友对李坚柔的微博评论道，“夺冠视频看得我激动的都快哭了！”
As of Friday afternoon, “Li Jianrou miraculously seizes the crown” was among the top search terms on Sina Weibo, China’s popular microblogging platform. People’s Daily, the mouthpiece of the ruling Communist Party, ran a front page story featuring photos of the two victors. “Sochi Winter Olympics — One Day Two Golds,” read the headline.
周五中午，中国热门微博平台新浪微博上一条最热门的搜索词条是“李坚柔奇迹夺冠”。作为共产党喉舌的《人民日报》将两名选手夺冠的消息配图发表在首页上，题为《索契冬运会  一日夺二金》。
The victories of Li and Zhang bring China’s total medal count for the Sochi Games to three. The first was a silver medal won by Han Tianyu on Monday in the men’s 1,500-meter short-track speedskating event.
李坚柔和张虹夺得的金牌使中国在索契冬季奥运会上的奖牌总数增加到3玫。第一枚是周一的短道速滑男子1500米比赛中韩天宇夺得的银牌。