SOCHI, Russia — With an outsize extravaganza that reached deep into the repertoire of classical music and ballet, traversed the sights and sounds of the world’s largest geopolitical expanse, soared into outer space, and swept across 400 years of history in a celebration of everything from Czarist military might to Soviet Monumentalism, a swaggering, resurgent Russia turned its Olympic aspirations into reality on Friday night.
俄罗斯索契——周五晚上，一场超级盛宴拉开帷幕，这场盛宴深度汲取了古典音乐及芭蕾保留曲目的精华，融合了全世界幅员最为辽阔的国家的景色和声音，响彻外太空，横越400年的历史，赞颂了从沙皇军事实力到苏联宏伟建筑的种种俄罗斯成就。随着这场盛宴的举行，趾高气扬、活力再现的俄罗斯将自己的奥运梦想变成了现实。
After seven years of building to this moment — the opening of what is reputed to be the most expensive Games in the history of global sport — the message of the over-the-top ceremony was simply this: In a big way, Russia is back.
经历了开幕式——据称，本届奥运会是全球运动史上最昂贵的奥运会——这一刻之前的七年建设，这场超级开幕式传达的只是这样一条讯息：俄罗斯已经强势回归。
As if there was any doubt.
就跟此前还有人对此存疑似的。
The 18-chapter, 2.5-hour performance began at the symbolic moment of 8:14 p.m. — 20:14, as time is counted here — and provided a majestic spectacle that included a glowing troika of horses streaking through a snowbound sky, the multicolor onion domes of St. Basil’s Cathedral bobbing in the air; literary references to Gogol, Tolstoy and Nabokov; images of behemoth post-Revolutionary skyscrapers and space capsules; as well as performances by Russia’s storied ballerinas, musicians and singers.
分为18个篇章、历时两个半小时的表演在具有象征意义的晚上8点14分——也就是本地时间的20：14——开始，奉上了一场宏伟的盛宴。在这场盛宴中，一辆闪闪发光的三驾马车穿过雪花飞舞的天空，圣巴希尔大教堂(St. Basil’s Cathedral)形如洋葱的五彩穹顶浮在空中。盛宴中还有关于果戈理、托尔斯泰和纳博科夫的文学典故，以及描绘后革命时代巨型摩天大楼和太空船的影像，俄罗斯久负盛名的芭蕾舞者、音乐家和歌唱家也奉上了精彩的表演。
If there were any traces of national self-consciousness lingering, nearly a quarter-century after the collapse of Communism and the loss of superpower status, they were put aside for the evening. Also set aside, however briefly, were the many political controversies that have roiled of late, including criticism of a law banning homosexual “propaganda”, and tiffs over political influence in Ukraine, human rights and other issues that prompted some Western leaders not to attend the Games.
在共产主义垮台、俄罗斯失去超级大国地位近四分之一个世纪之后，即使俄罗斯还有隐约的民族自我意识痕迹，为了今晚，它们也暂时被抛在了一边。不管多么短暂，一同被暂时抛下的还有最近兴起的许多政治争议，其中包括一项禁止同性恋“宣传”的法律引发的指责、围绕对乌克兰的政治影响而产生的争执，以及导致部分西方领导人不愿出席此次奥运会的人权等问题。
Instead, what unfolded in the Fisht Olympic Stadium — the centerpiece of the newly constructed multiple-venue Olympic complex stretching from the Black Sea coast up into the Caucasus Mountains — was sheer pageantry and national pride, with all of the homespun promotionalism, mythmaking and self-aggrandizement that are the modern trademark of such ceremonies.
相反，呈现在菲什特奥林匹克体育场(Olympic Stadium)——这是新建的多场馆奥运设施的核心组成部分，该设施从黑海沿岸一直延伸到了高加索群山之中——只是华丽壮观和民族自豪感，以及土产的宣传手法、造神运动和自吹自擂，这些都是类似仪式的现代标志。
The music included pieces by Alexander Borodin, Georgi Sviridov, Stravinsky and Tchaikovsky, including from “Swan Lake” and “The Nutcracker.” There were roles for the opera soprano Anna Netrebko; the prima ballerina Diana Vishneva and for Russia’s best-known conductor, Valery Gergiev of the Mariinsky Theater. There were Cossack dancers and boyar puppeteers. And there were also nods to Mendeleev, who codified the Periodic Table of Elements, and Igor Sikorsky, the inventor and aviator.
现场音乐包括亚历山大·鲍罗丁(Alexander Borodin)、格奥尔基·斯维里多夫(Georgi Sviridov)、斯特拉文斯基(Stravinsky)和柴可夫斯基(Tchaikovsky)的作品，其中包括《天鹅湖》(Swan Lake)和《胡桃夹子》(The Nutcracker)选段。歌剧女高音歌唱家安娜·奈瑞贝科(Anna Netrebko)、知名芭蕾舞者戴安娜·维什涅娃(Diana Vishneva)以及来自马林斯基剧院(Mariinsky Theater)的俄罗斯最著名指挥家瓦莱里·捷杰耶夫(Valery Gergiev)均奉上了精彩表演。开幕式还纳入了哥萨克舞者和饰演伯维尔贵族的木偶，并对编制元素周期表(Periodic Table of Elements)的门捷列夫以及发明家兼飞行员伊戈尔·西科斯基(Igor Sikorsky)表示了敬意。
The Russian flag was raised by the cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev.The former first lady Naina Yeltsin was in the audience. And the Olympic torch was carried on its last steps by a cadre of Russia’s most famous athletes, including the gold medal winning rhythmic gymnast Alina Kabaeva, the champion pole-vaulter Yelena Isinbayeva and the tennis star Maria Sharapova, who won a silver medal at the Summer Games in 2012.
宇航员谢尔盖·克里卡列夫(Sergei Krikalev)升起了俄罗斯国旗。前第一夫人奈纳·叶利钦(Naina Yeltsin)出席了开幕式。完成奥运火炬最后几棒传递的都是俄罗斯最负盛名的运动员，其中包括艺术体操金牌得主阿丽娜·卡巴耶娃(Alina Kabaeva)、撑杆跳冠军叶莲娜・伊辛巴耶娃(Yelena Isinbayeva)以及在2012年夏季奥运会上夺得银牌的网球明星玛丽亚·莎拉波娃(Maria Sharapova)。
If the renarration of history in the opening ceremony occasionally involved some breezing past inconvenient episodes — the Stalinist purges that killed millions, for instance, and the gulags that imprisoned and killed millions more — the ceremony was, in many respects, the introduction to the world of a recreated Russia, one far different from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that held the Summer Games in Moscow in 1980.
即便开幕式上对历史的讲述偶尔提到了一些不光彩的过去——例如导致数百万人死亡的肃反运动，以及曾关押和杀害了数百万人的古拉格集中营，但从很多方面来看，这场开幕式也向世界展示了一个全新的俄罗斯，一个与1980年举行莫斯科夏季奥运会的苏维埃社会主义共和国联盟(Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)截然不同的国家。
The national anthem played to the crowd of 40,000 in the stadium and heard by billions more watching on television around the world was the same music played nearly 35 years ago. But the lyrics have since been rewritten with lines about “the united, mighty Soviet Union” and “the great Lenin” replaced by references to “Russia — our sacred homeland” and “wide spaces, for dreams and for living.”
体育场里有4万名观众，世界各地还有数十亿电视观众，他们都听到了现场播放的俄罗斯国歌。国歌与近35年前播放的国歌曲调相同，歌词却变了，以前歌词里的“团结伟大的苏联”和“伟大的列宁”换成了“俄罗斯——我们神圣的国土”和“梦想与生活的广阔空间”。
In this sense, unlike the most recent comparable spectacles — London, in 2012, which celebrated enduring traditions and reveled in ironic, self-deprecation, or Beijing, in 2008, which firmly declared the emergence of a new power — the Sochi ceremony was a toast to reinvention. The Sochi Games, in many respects, have reflected a personal ambition of President Vladimir V. Putin, the most sensational of a series of megaprojects that illustrate the nation’s raise from post-Soviet chaos.
从这个角度来看，不同于时间最近的一些同类典礼——2012年的伦敦奥运会展示了历史传统，并痴迷于讽刺和自嘲；2008年的北京奥运会则坚定地表明了一个新兴强国的崛起——索契的开幕式是一曲新生的颂歌。从许多方面来看，索契奥运会都反映了俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的个人野心。一系列大项目显示俄罗斯已经从后苏联时代的混乱之中重新崛起，索契冬奥会就是其中最引人注目的一个。
Like so much else in modern Russia, Sochi’s opening festivities were both carefully choreographed and yet oddly unpredictable, with a few surprises — not all of them good. At the very beginning, one of the five gigantic snowflakes intended to burst into Olympic rings failed to open.
与现代俄罗斯的众多其他事物一样，索契开幕式既安排细致，又十分出人意料，其中还出现了几次意外——并非都是惊喜。典礼刚开始的时候，原本应该绽放为奥运五环的五朵巨型雪绒花中有一朵未能成功打开。
The show, formally titled “Dreams About Russia,” was produced under the leadership of Konstantin Ernst, the director of Channel One, Russia’s largest state-controlled television channel, and a staunch loyalist to Mr. Putin. At a news conference earlier in the day, Mr. Ernst noted that Russia could not compete when it comes to popular music, so instead would rely on what it has done best for centuries: classical.
这场表演的正式名称是“俄罗斯之梦”(Dreams About Russia)，领衔制作的是俄罗斯最大的国有电视台“第一频道”(Channel One)的导演康斯坦丁·恩斯特(Konstantin Ernst)，此人对普京十分忠诚。恩斯特在当天早些时候的新闻发布会上指出，在流行音乐方面，俄罗斯根本没有竞争力，所以它必须依靠自己几个世纪以来的强项：古典音乐。
“We cannot like London boast of a great number of world-famous pop performers, that’s why we focus more on the most popular part of Russian music — classical music,” he said.
他说，“我们不像伦敦那样，拥有一大批世界著名的流行表演艺术家，所以我们要把重点放在俄罗斯音乐最受欢迎的部分——古典音乐。”
The central character in the show, however, was a little-known 11-year-old, Liza Temnikova, from Krasnodar, the capital of the region where Sochi is. The daughter of two taxi drivers, she won the role in a casting call.
然而，这场表演的主角却是一个默默无闻的人物、来自克拉斯诺达尔的11岁女孩莉扎·泰姆尼科娃(Liza Temnikova)。克拉斯诺达尔是索契所在地区的首府。女孩的父母都是的士司机，她在一次试镜中脱颖而出。
Her character, named Lyubov, which means “love,” leads the audience on a journey across centuries, as well as Russia’s roughly 4,400-mile expanse, stretching across nine times zones, from Europe to the Far East, and from the Arctic Sea to the Black Sea.
她饰演的角色名叫柳博芙(Lyubov)，这个名字的意思是“爱”。她带领观众穿越几个世纪，还带领观众参观了横跨约4400英里、覆盖9个时区的俄罗斯版图，从欧洲走到远东，从北冰洋走到黑海。
The show celebrated not only Russia’s geography but also the Cyrillic alphabet, the military prowess of Peter the Great, and Leo Tolstoy’s epic novel, “War and Peace.” There was also some love for Mr. Putin, Russia’s paramount leader now for 14 years, who the program noted “is also an Alpine skier and has learned to ice skate and play ice hockey.”
这场表演不仅展示了俄罗斯的地理风貌，还展示了西里尔字母，彼得大帝(Peter the Great)的军事力量和列夫·托尔斯泰(Leo Tolstoy)的史诗小说《战争与和平》(War and Peace)。表演还显示了对普京的喜爱，后者是执掌俄罗斯已达14年之久的最高领导人，节目说他“同时是一名阿尔卑斯山滑雪者，曾学习溜冰和打冰球”。
Just before 10:30 p.m. Mr. Putin fulfilled his role — carefully dictated by the Olympic Charter — and uttered the single sentence, declaring the Games officially opened. A barrage of red-white-and-blue fireworks immediately shot up above the Fisht Stadium, lighting up the night sky.
就在晚上10:30之前，普京完成了自己的任务——这是《奥林匹克宪章》(Olympic Charter)的具体规定——用一句话宣布奥运会正式开幕。话音刚落，一连串由红、白、蓝三色组成的烟火迅速升上菲什特奥林匹克体育场，点亮了夜空。