SOCHI, Russia — Russia had so much to prove at the Winter Games. Was spending however-many billions of dollars to build an Olympics-industrial complex from scratch on the edge of the Black Sea worth it? How could the country overcome a thicket of potential problems: security worries, logistical obstacles, weather annoyances and the darkening specter of revolution in nearby Ukraine?
俄罗斯索契——在本届冬奥会上，俄罗斯有太多需要证明的事情。花多少钱都要在黑海边上从头打造一处奥运园区，值得吗？俄罗斯如何能克服一系列错综复杂的潜在问题：安全方面的担忧、后勤保障方面的障碍、天气方面的烦恼以及近邻乌克兰日渐加剧的革命局势？
The closing ceremony on Sunday night was advertised as a celebration of Russian culture and heritage: a grand party to show off the work of distinguished Russian musicians, dancers, artists and authors through the centuries. But it seemed as much a great sigh of happy relief as anything else.
周日晚上的闭幕式被宣传为一场颂扬俄罗斯文化和遗产的典礼，一场展示俄罗斯数百年来卓越音乐家、舞蹈家、艺术家和作家作品的盛大聚会。然而，它似乎也同样明显地标志着，俄罗斯大大地舒了一口气。
Russia had done it. It had held an Olympics that was safe and secure and that, thrillingly to the home fans, demonstrated the restoration of Russia’s athletic might. Four years after finishing the Vancouver Games with less than half as many medals as the United States, Russia won the most: 33. Almost overnight, it seemed, the mood in Russia shifted, from a kind of grumbling fatalism to a burst of national pride.
俄罗斯做到了。它举办了一届平平安安的奥运会，而且对俄罗斯国内的体育迷而言，它令人兴奋地表明，俄罗斯重振了在体育领域的实力。在四年前的温哥华冬奥会上，俄罗斯的奖牌数不足美国的一半。四年后的今天，俄罗斯获得了33枚奖牌，排名第一。看上去，俄罗斯国内的情绪几乎是在一夜之间发生了变化，从嘟嘟囔囔的怨天尤人变成了喷涌而出的民族自豪感。
In keeping with that, the ceremony Sunday was often loud, sometimes elegant, sometimes flashy, sometimes bewildering. It opened with an excerpt from Mussorgsky’s lovely “Pictures at an Exhibition”; featured a children’s choir whose members were drawn from all over Russia; starred a giddy crowd of postcompetition Olympic athletes from various countries, rushing in all at once; and hustled people on- and offstage so rapidly that it was sometimes hard to catch why they had been there at all.
为了与这一点保持一致，周日的闭幕式常常显得十分喧哗，时而高雅、时而华丽、时而令人费解。开场音乐是穆索尔斯基的迷人作品《图画展览会》(Pictures at an Exhibition)的节选；从俄罗斯各地选来的孩子奉上了精彩的合唱；结束了比赛的各国奥运选手成了星光熠熠的主角，同时涌入典礼场地；急匆匆的人们飞快地上场下场，让人有时很难理解，那些人究竟为何会出现在那里。
There were references to Kandinsky and to Chagall. There was music by Rachmaninoff, Rubinstein and Vladimir Horowitz. There were ballet dancers. Huge banners depicting some of Russia’s greatest authors — Tolstoy, Gogol, Dostoyevsky, the dissident writer Solzhenitsyn — were displayed as people ran around waving books in the air.
闭幕式涉及了康定斯基(Kandinsky)和夏加尔(Chagall)的作品，也有拉赫玛尼诺夫(Rachmaninoff)、鲁宾斯坦(Rubinstein)和弗拉基米尔·霍洛维茨(Vladimir Horowitz)的音乐作品，芭蕾舞蹈家也登台亮相。人们高举着书籍四处奔跑，巨大的横幅上出现了俄罗斯最伟大的一些作家——托尔斯泰(Tolstoy)、果戈里(Gogol)、陀思妥耶夫斯基(Dostoyevsky)以及异见作家索尔仁尼琴(Solzhenitsyn)。
In a charming touch, witty fun was also made of the fact that one of the Olympic rings had malfunctioned during the opening ceremony, leaving an incomplete Olympic insignia of just four rings. This time the Olympic ring pattern was made by performers fanning out across the arena: They opened into the first four rings, waited several minutes and then finally formed the fifth, which was in itself a relief.
开幕式上的奥运标志出现故障，只有四个环，闭幕式上的一处迷人设计诙谐地提及了这一事实。这一次，在场地里扇形散开的表演者组成了奥运五环的形状：他们先是组成了前四个环，等了几分钟后才最终组成第五个环。这本身也令人长舒了一口气。
There is no doubt that Russia felt it had won a kind of cosmic gold medal during these Games, not least because they seemed to vindicate the grand ambitions of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, whose dream of holding an Olympics here sometimes seemed based more on his own grandiose self-confidence than on reality.
俄罗斯无疑觉得，自己通过这些比赛赢得了某种宇宙金牌，一个重要的原因是，它们似乎证明了俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的宏伟抱负是有道理的。此前的有些时候，普京在这里举办奥运会的梦想似乎更多是基于他本人的过分自信，并不是基于现实。
But it worked. After all the fears of terrorist attacks, none materialized. The signs had seemed grim: Some three dozen people were killed and scores more injured in Volgograd in three attacks in the months leading to the Olympics. Some fans were scared away. From the United States, the relatives of some athletes said they planned to stay home rather than risk traveling here.
然而，这个梦想得到了实现。虽然人们对恐怖袭击有诸多担心，但没有一起变成现实。之前，种种迹象都显得非常不妙：奥运会前的几个月时间里，三十多人在伏尔加格勒的三起袭击中身亡，另有数十人受伤。一些体育迷被吓跑了。在美国，一些运动员的亲戚表示他们计划待在家里，不愿冒险来俄罗斯。
There were worries, too, about how well all this new infrastructure would hold up when tens of thousands of people descended en masse, staying, eating and traveling in places that no one had ever set foot in before. Some corners of the Olympic development, especially up in Krasnaya Polyana, simply were not ready on time. After a number of well-publicized hiccups — unfinished hotels, knobs falling off doors, brown water spewing from faucets, elevators malfunctioning midride — everything began to calm down. By the end, things even seemed not just to be working, but to be working well.
人们也曾担忧，当数万人一起来到这里，在这里停留、吃饭并在那些从未有人踏足的地方旅行时，这里的新建基础设施能不能承受得了。奥运园区的部分地方，尤其是卡拉斯拉雅波利亚纳的部分地区，根本就没能按时准备就绪。经历了大量遭到热炒的小麻烦——没完工的酒店、从门上掉下的把手、从水龙头涌出的褐色水流、卡在半途的电梯——之后，所有事情都开始从容起来。到最后，各项设施似乎不仅能够运转，甚至还运转得不错。
In sports, too, Russia prevailed, after a rough start during which, among other things, it faced the horrifying prospect of failing to win as many medals as Norway. In perhaps the most emotionally significant contest of the Games, the Russian men’s ice hockey team lost to the United States, 3-2, in a shootout. The defeat sent Russia into collective gloom, the Russian coach into a vortex of self-flagellation and despair, and the Americans into the semifinals, where they promptly lost to Canada.
比赛方面，俄罗斯虽然经历了艰难的开端，最终也取得了傲视群雄的结果。一开始，除了其他困难之外，它还面临着奖牌数比不上挪威的可怕前景。俄罗斯男子冰球队在点球决胜中2:3败给了美国队，这也许是本届冬奥会中情感意义最为重大的比赛。此次失利让整个俄罗斯郁闷不已，也使俄罗斯教练陷入了自责和绝望的漩涡，还把美国人送入了半决赛，后者随即败给了加拿大队。
But as if to make up for its setback, Russia then proceeded to win another big-ticket sport, women’s figure skating. In a result that shocked many except, it seemed, the adoring Russian crowd and the skating judges (one of whom is married to the general director of the Russian figure skating federation), Adelina Sotnikova defeated the defending gold medalist, Kim Yu-na of South Korea.
不过，似乎是为了弥补之前的挫折，俄罗斯随后斩获了另一项热门运动女子花样滑冰的金牌。阿德利娜·斯托尼科娃(Adelina Sotnikova)击败了卫冕冠军、韩国的金妍儿(Kim Yu-na)，这一结果让许多人感到震惊，例外的似乎只有对她崇拜不已的俄罗斯民众和花滑裁判（其中一名裁判和俄罗斯花样滑冰联盟的主席是夫妻）。
In the end, Russia took home the most medals, 33, followed by the United States, with 28. Russia also won the most gold medals, 13, followed by Norway, with 11.
最终，俄罗斯带回家的奖牌最多，达到了33枚，美国次之，有28枚。俄罗斯赢得的金牌也最多，达到了13枚，紧随其后的挪威拿到了11枚。
Six new disciplines had been added since the Vancouver Games in 2010, including women’s ski jumping. Some of the additions were X Games-style events that followed a trend in which athletes were pushing themselves to more and more daring and dangerous lengths. (The Russian skier Maria Komissarova broke her back in training for the ski cross competition.)
温哥华冬奥会后，冬奥会纳入了六个新项目，其中包括女子跳台滑雪。有一些新添的项目是极限运动式的项目，背后的潮流则是运动员正在把自己推向更大胆、更危险的极限。（俄罗斯滑雪选手玛丽亚·科米斯萨洛娃[Maria Komissarova]在滑雪越野赛训练中摔伤了背部）。
As the weather grew troubling for various reasons — first it was too hot, and the snow turned to slush; then fog rolled in, and events had to be postponed; then it seemed rain would wash everything away — athletes complained about poor conditions, and in some skiing events, competitor after competitor wiped out while going down the slopes.
天气因多种原因——先是天变得太热，雪开始融化成泥；之后雾气袭来，赛事被迫推迟；再之后，雨水似乎要把一切都冲走——而变得令人不安，致使选手们抱怨糟糕的比赛条件。在一些滑雪赛事中，一个接一个的选手在滑下坡道时遭到淘汰。
Some of the most dramatic moments at the Games happened in biathlon, the sport that stirs Russians’ passions perhaps more than any other but hockey. The Russian team was emblematic of the country’s Olympic efforts. Mikhail D. Prokhorov, an oligarch, took over the troubled national biathlon federation in 2008 and poured millions of his own rubles into making it gold-worthy. Just before the Sochi Games, a top Russian biathlete tested positive for a banned substance.
本次冬奥会最戏剧化的几个时刻出现在冬季两项比赛当中，除了冰球赛之外，俄罗斯人被它引发的激情也许多于其他任何比赛。俄罗斯队的表现体现了该国为奥运会付出的努力。俄罗斯寡头米哈伊尔·普罗霍罗夫(Mikhail Prokhorov)在2008年接掌麻烦缠身的全国冬季两项联盟，并且自掏腰包投入数百万卢布，把它变成了货真价实的联盟。就在索契冬奥会举办前，一名顶级的俄罗斯冬季两项选手被测出服用了一种违禁药物，药检阳性。
Then, in Saturday’s men’s relay, the last event of the biathlon competition, Emil Hegle Svendsen of Norway fell apart during his final turn at shooting, ruining the chances of another medal for himself, his country and his celebrated teammate Ole Einar Bjorndalen, the éminence grise of the Norwegian team.
随后，在冬季两项赛的最后一个项目，于上周六举行的男子接力赛中，挪威的艾米尔·海格勒·史维德森(Emil Hegle Svendsen)在最后一轮射击中表现失常，毁掉了他自己、他的国家和他大名鼎鼎的队友欧勒·艾诺·毕昂德兰(Ole Einar Bjorndalen)获得另一枚奖牌的机会，后者是挪威队的无冕之王。
In front of a thrilled crowd and volunteers so happy they broke into tears, Russia unexpectedly slipped ahead and, in a thrilling finish, won the relay. It seemed oddly fitting.
在一众激动不已、喜极而泣的的观众和志愿者面前，俄罗斯队出人意料地占据了领先位置，并在惊心动魄的冲刺中拿下了这场接力赛。这似乎是一种奇妙的巧合。