NOWHERE is the opulence of Old Hollywood more palpable than on the Sony Pictures lot in Culver City. Arching just inside the front gate is an eight-story rainbow. This grand $1.6 million sculpture, a condition of a lot expansion, rose last year and became a symbolic link between past glories — “The Wizard of Oz” was filmed here — and current ones. Years of cutbacks have taken the shine off many studios, which now look like glorified factories. But Sony has preserved its lot as a perfect little movieland town: executive suites overflow with orchids, and cafes border a new park where employees sip lattes and stretch on the grass.
没有任何地方比卡尔弗城索尼影业(Sony Pictures)的大本营更能看到旧好莱坞的奢华。在大门之后，有一座8层楼高的彩虹。这座巨大的160万美元雕塑作为一个地块扩大项目的条件，在去年建成，成为昔日荣耀（《绿野仙踪》[The Wizard of Oz]在这里拍摄）与今日辉煌的象征性连接。多年的成本削减已经使许多制片厂失去了往日的光环，它们现在看上去就像好一点的工厂。但索尼仍在其地盘上保留一个完美的小小电影城：高管套间放满兰花，在一个新公园边上的咖啡厅，员工们啜饮着拿铁咖啡，在草坪上放松。
The mood extends beyond the walls of the 44 1/2-acre lot. Each year, Sony rents out the entire Ritz-Carlton Cancún Resort for an international press junket. Day after day, the studio flies in stars and hosts parties.
这种氛围超越了这个44.5英亩（约合18公顷）大本营的大墙。每年，索尼都会包下整座丽思卡尔顿坎昆度假酒店(Ritz-Carlton Cancún Resort)举行一个国际媒体招待会。一天又一天，该影业公司用专机请来明星，并主持各种聚会。
“What I love about Sony,” said Matthew Tolmach, a former executive at the studio and now a producer based on its lot, “is that they still love movies, and they are incredibly aggressive about making all kinds of them.” He added: “It’s why I want to live there.”
马修·托贝马奇(Matthew Tolmach)是制片厂的一名前高管，现在成了这里的一名制片人，他说，“我爱索尼的地方在于，他们仍热爱着电影，并且令人难以置信地积极拍摄各式各样的影片。”他补充说，“这就是为什么我想要在这里安家。”
While competitors like Paramount, Disney and even Warner Brothers have gone through ferocious consolidation — all focusing more narrowly on blockbuster-style fantasies and superhero movies — Sony has been slower to give up the industry’s broad prerogatives. Its ambitions still stretch from R-rated romps to “The Amazing Spider-Man” to tiny foreign films to African-American comedies to Oscar-caliber dramas. That requires making a home not just for Mr. Tolmach but also for an extensive family of filmmakers and stars.
尽管派拉蒙(Paramount)、迪斯尼(Disney)，甚至华纳兄弟(Warner Brothers)等竞争对手都经历了汹涌的整合，全都更加狭窄地聚焦于大片风格的幻想类和超级英雄电影，索尼却没有那么快放弃电影业可选的广泛题材。其野心仍涵盖限制级的闹剧、《超凡蜘蛛侠》(The Amazing Spider-Man)、小制作的外国电影、非洲裔美国人喜剧以及奥斯卡奖(Oscar)水准的剧情片。这就要求不仅要让托贝马奇落户，也要让人数众多的各路制作人和明星在此安家。
Sometimes it pays. Last year, Sony Pictures Entertainment generated about $4.4 billion in global ticket sales, the highest in its history, powered by nine No. 1 hits including “Skyfall,” “Men in Black 3” and“The Vow.” It had an Oscar contender, “Zero Dark Thirty,” started a new franchise, “Hotel Transylvania,” and revived an old one, “21 Jump Street.” It ended the year in first place in market share.
有时这么做颇有收获。去年，索尼影业娱乐公司的全球票房收入达到44亿美元，是其历史上的最好成绩，得益于9部票房冠军影片，包括《007：大破天幕杀机》(Skyfall)、《黑衣人3》(Men in Black 3)和《誓约》(The Vow)。它还拥有可能角逐奥斯卡奖的《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)，开始了新系列《怪物旅社》(Hotel Transylvania)，还重启了旧系列《龙虎少年队》(21 Jump Street)。去年底，它处于市场份额的第一位。
But in true Hollywood style, the Sony picture is not quite what it seems.
但就像真正的好莱坞风格影片，索尼影业的实情与外表有所不同。
The truth is that Sony finds itself at a troubled crossroads. Its go-to stars — Adam Sandler and Will Smith — are now a generation older than the prime film-going audience. And its steep production and infrastructure costs burden Sony with one of Hollywood’s worst profit margins. Sony’s entertainment unit had an operating margin of 6.5 percent in its last fiscal year; the figures at Warner Brothers, Disney, Paramount and 20th Century Fox were all higher.
实情是，索尼发现自己正处在一个麻烦的十字路口上。其头牌明星，亚当·桑德勒(Adam Sandler)和威尔·史密斯(Will Smith)，现在都比主要的电影观众人群年长一辈。而过高的制片和基础设施成本成了索尼的负担，给它带来了好莱坞最糟糕的利润率之一。索尼的娱乐部门在上个财年的营运利润率是6.5%；低于华纳兄弟、迪斯尼、派拉蒙和20世纪福克斯(20th Century Fox)。
It is extremely hard to compare studios, analysts warn. Some make only movies, while others, like Sony, also make television shows. Financing arrangements and accounting vary. Sony does not divulge how much of its profit comes from movies and how much comes from its fast-growing television business.
分析人士警告称，很难对制片厂进行比较。其中一些仅拍摄电影，而其他的还制作电视节目，例如索尼。融资安排和会计计算也有所不同。索尼并未透露有多少利润来自电影，又有多少利润来自其快速增长的电视业务。
In its last fiscal year, the studio reported operating income of $509 million, up 40 percent from a year before. That result looks fantastic until you consider that roughly 65 percent of the total, analysts estimate, came from a relatively small television arm that includes shows like “Wheel of Fortune” and “Breaking Bad” as well as overseas cable channels. Analysts complain that the giant movie side is holding back profitability.
在上个财年，索尼影业报告营运利润达到5.09亿美元，同比增长40%。这一结果看上去棒极了，但据分析师估算，其中有约65%来自于相对较小的电视部门，包括《幸运之轮》(Wheel of Fortune)和《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)等节目，以及海外有线电视频道。分析师抱怨说，庞大的电影分支拖累了盈利能力。
The movie unit has also lost the man long seen as its protector inside Sony, the far-flung Japanese electronics behemoth. That man is Howard Stringer, who was Sony’s chief executive for seven years. Last year, he turned over the Sony helm to Kazuo Hirai. Mr. Stringer will retire as chairman next month.
在相距遥远的索尼这家日本电子巨擘的总部，长期被视为电影部门保护人的霍华德·斯特林格(Howard Stringer)也已经卸任，他曾任索尼首席执行官达7年。去年，他把索尼的头把交椅交给平井一夫(Kazuo Hirai)。斯特林格将在下个月卸任董事长职务。
But the truly startling plot twist came on Tuesday. Daniel S. Loeb, the activist hedge fund manager known for successfully engineering a shake-up at Yahoo, told Mr. Hirai in a letter that his Third Point investment fund had become Sony’s largest shareholder, with a 6.5 percent stake. With that announcement, Mr. Loeb proposed breathtaking changes at the company, including a spin-off of up to 20 percent of its studio and other entertainment holdings.
但真正惊人的情节转折发生在周二。活跃投资者、以成功推动雅虎(Yahoo)改组而闻名的对冲基金经理丹尼尔·S·勒布(Daniel S. Loeb)，在一封信中告诉平井一夫，他的“第三点”(Third Point)投资基金已成为索尼最大股东，持有6.5%的股份。宣布这一事实后，勒布提议在该公司进行令人惊叹的改组，包括剥离其制片厂和其他娱乐控股中高达20%的资产。
Overnight, Michael M. Lynton, the C.E.O. of both Sony Pictures and Sony Entertainment, and Amy Pascal, co-chairwoman of Sony Pictures, found themselves under a kind of weight rarely felt in Hollywood since the 1980s, when corporate raiders and high-yield bond peddlers like Saul Steinberg, the Bass brothers and Michael Milken delved into studios, looking for hidden value.
一夜之间，索尼影业和索尼娱乐(Sony Entertainment)的首席执行官迈克尔·M·林顿(Michael M. Lynton)和索尼影业的联名女董事长埃米·帕斯卡尔(Amy Pascal)发现，自己正处于20世纪80年代以来好莱坞罕见的重压之下；80年代，索尔·斯坦伯格(Saul Steinberg)、巴斯兄弟(Bass)和迈克尔·米尔肯(Michael Milken)等企业袭击者和高收益债券贩子曾把触角伸到制片公司，试图挖掘隐藏的价值。
“The entertainment businesses are important contributors to Sony’s growth and are not for sale,” Sony asserted in response to Mr. Loeb. “We look forward to continuing constructive dialogue with our shareholders as we pursue our strategy.”
“娱乐业务是索尼增长的重要贡献来源，属于非卖品，”索尼在回应勒布时断言。“我们期待在追求我们的战略时，与我们的股东继续进行建设性对话。”
A spokeswoman for Mr. Lynton and Ms. Pascal said they had no comment. 
林顿和帕斯卡尔的一名女发言人称，他们对此不予置评。
The scrutiny from Mr. Loeb comes as Sony, with movie brands that include Columbia, Screen Gems and TriStar, prepares to pull off a death-defying summer. Starting May 31, the studio, which hasn’t released a major movie since December, will roll out seven significant films in a span of 14 weeks, more than any rival.
勒布的目光投来之际，旗下电影品牌包括哥伦比亚影业(Columbia)、幕宝影业(Screen Gems)和三星影业(TriStar)的索尼，正准备迎来一个玩命的夏天。从5月31日起，自去年12月以来未发布任何大片的索尼，将在14周内推出7部大制作的影片，比任何竞争对手都多。
An ensemble comedy like “Grown Ups 2,” starring Chris Rock, Kevin James, David Spade and Mr. Sandler, is a relatively safe box-office bet. An inexpensive comedy, “This Is the End,” about celebrities facing an apocalypse while partying at James Franco’s house, is generating substantial advance buzz. And a concert film about the boy band One Direction that cost almost nothing to make is expected to be popular with teenage girls and to deliver fat profits.
《长大后2》(Grown Ups 2)之类的群戏喜剧——由克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock)、凯文·詹姆斯(Kevin James)、戴维·斯佩德(David Spade)和桑德勒主演——有相对稳妥的票房预测。廉价喜剧《世界末日》(This Is the End)是关于名人们在詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)的豪宅开派对时面对世界末日的故事，这是一部还未上映就备受关注的影片。一部关于男孩乐队组合单向乐队(One Direction)的音乐会电影成本几乎为零，据估计将在青春期女孩中流行并带来丰厚利润。
But there are ominous clouds as well. “After Earth,” a dark science-fiction tale starring Jaden Smith and his father, Will, is attracting solid attention from moviegoers ahead of its May 31 arrival, according to prerelease tracking surveys. But people who have seen it tend to grimace when asked if it’s any good. The movie was directed by M. Night Shyamalan, whose box-office history is bumpy at best.
但也有些不祥的阴云。《重返地球》(After Earth)是一部阴暗的科幻故事，由杰登·史密斯(Jaden Smith)和他的父亲威尔·史密斯主演。根据上映前跟踪调查，这部影片在5月31日上映前夕吸引了电影观众相当大的注意力。但在问及这部影片是否好看时，看过的人大都会做个鬼脸。这部影片的导演是M·奈特·沙马兰(M. Night Shyamalan)，他的票房纪录往最好的方向说也只是起起伏伏的。
“Elysium,” a science-fiction drama starring Matt Damon and Jodie Foster and directed by Neill Blomkamp, comes at the end of a crowded summer. (Sony contends that this will actually work in its favor, as happened with Mr. Blomkamp’s “District 9” in 2009.) And “The Smurfs 2,” while expected to be big overseas, is one of no less than six computer-animated movies in North American theaters between June and August, up from three last year.
《极乐空间》(Elysium)是一部由马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)和朱迪·福斯特(Jodie Foster)主演、由尼尔·布洛姆坎普(Neill Blomkamp)导演的科幻片，将在这个拥挤的夏季结束时上映——索尼称这其实将是有利的，就像2009年布洛姆坎普的《第九区》(District 9)一样。还有《蓝精灵2》(The Smurfs 2)，尽管预计将在海外打响，但它将是今年6月到8月北美院线上映的6部动画片之一；去年同期只有3部。
SONY faces the same challenges as every studio. Costs keep rising as DVD sales weaken. Word-of-mouth on Twitter and Facebook makes attracting an audience on movie opening weekends harder; if ticket buyers rip apart a movie online on a Friday, fewer people show up on Saturday.
索尼面对着每家制片厂都面对的相同挑战：随着DVD销售趋弱，成本不断上升；Twitter和Facebook上的评论加大了在电影首映周末吸引观众的难度——如果购票者周五在网上把一部电影骂得一文不值，周六买票的人就会减少。
But after Mr. Loeb’s letter went public, Sony shares soared 10 percent, and analysts cheered. “Bravo Loeb,” said Harold L. Vogel, an analyst and the author of the book “Entertainment Industry Economics,” adding, “It might be the best thing to happen to Sony in at least 20 years.”
但在勒布的信公开之后，索尼股价飙升了10%，分析师们欢呼雀跃。“干得好，勒布，”《娱乐产业经济学》(Entertainment Industry Economics)一书作者、分析师哈罗德·L·沃格尔(Harold L. Vogel)说。他补充说，“对索尼来说，这是至少20年来发生的最好的事情。”
Mr. Loeb’s suggestion was viewed as a long-overdue call to unlink two disparate businesses — electronics and entertainment — and to cut studio spending. “There is an inherent logic to what Loeb is saying,” said Michael Nathanson, an analyst at Nomura, a Tokyo-based financial services company. “All of us have been pressuring the companies we cover to put less capital into the film business.”
勒布的建议被视为一个早就应该有人提出的呼吁，即分离电子产品和娱乐这两个不相干的业务，并且削减制片厂的支出。“勒布的说法有其内在逻辑，”总部位于东京的金融服务公司野村证劵 (Nomura)的分析师迈克尔·内桑森(Michael Nathanson)说。“我们全都敦促自己研究的公司少向电影业投钱。”
Sony, while still rooted in Old Hollywood, has nonetheless started to change. In the fall, Mr. Lynton and Ms. Pascal started broad cost cuts, trimming spending on development (scripts, literary materials), laying off home-entertainment employees, winnowing spending on marketing and downsizing the studio’s mail room. “We combed through every single division, right down to where things are stored,” said one Sony executive who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid conflict with the studio’s public stance.
索尼尽管仍植根于旧好莱坞，但也已开始改变。去年秋天，林顿和帕斯卡尔启动了广泛的支出削减，压缩开发成本（包括脚本和文字材料），解雇家庭娱乐部门的员工，剪裁营销支出，还精简了制片厂的收发室。“我们梳理了每一个部门，连储物室也没放过，”一名索尼高管说。他要求保持匿名，以免与该制片厂的公共立场发生抵触。
Studio executives say the summer movies reflect smarter spending. “After Earth” cost about $135 million to make, while “Elysium,” jointly produced and financed with Media Rights Capital, cost about $115 million. The budget for the thriller “White House Down” was roughly $150 million. Those expenditures may sound astronomical to the uninitiated, but summer movies now routinely cost $200 million or more. (Examples this year include “The Lone Ranger” from Disney and “Man of Steel” from Warner Bros.) “They understand that business has changed, it’s harder to make a profit, and they are being incredibly responsible,” Mr. Tolmach said.
制片厂高管称，夏季电影反映出更加明智的支出。《重返地球》的制作花费了约1.35亿美元，与媒体权利资本(Media Rights Capital)联合制作和投资的《极乐空间》花了约1.15亿美元。惊悚片《惊天危机》(White House Down)的预算约为1.5亿美元。这些支出在一般人听来或许是天文数字，但如今夏季电影的成本经常高达2亿美元或更多。（今年的例子包括迪斯尼的《独行侠》[The Lone Ranger]和华纳兄弟的《超人：钢铁之躯》[Man of Steel]。）“他们明白业务已经变了，赚钱更难了，他们正变得令人难以置信地负责任，”托贝马奇说。
But there is also an air of defiance at Sony, where executives contend that their moviemaking strategy is perfectly attuned to the marketplace. As rivals have narrowed their offerings — betting on a handful of big-risk, big-reward (or big-loss) titles — Sony is the last studio to consistently deliver hits across genres, from family movies to indies, from minority comedies to global blockbusters. “We may not look like the rest of Hollywood,” said another Sony executive who spoke on condition of anonymity, “but that doesn’t mean this isn’t a painstakingly thought-through strategy and a profitable one.”
但在索尼也有一丝反抗的气息，高管们声称他们的电影制作战略是完全切合市场需求的。随着竞争对手收窄作品范围，转而押注少量高风险、高回报（或高亏损）的影片，索尼是最后一家坚持推出各类题材卖座电影的制片厂，从家庭电影到独立影片，从少数族裔喜剧到全球大片。“我们也许看上去和好莱坞其他公司不同，”另一名以匿名为条件发言的索尼高管称，“但并不意味着这不是煞费苦心、深思熟虑的战略，或是不能盈利的战略。”
Put another way, he seems to be saying: We won the box-office battle last year, and we did it mostly with doubles and triples. Do you have any idea how hard that is?
换句话说，他似乎是在讲：我们赢得了去年的票房战，而且我们在多数情况下是以两到三倍的优势赢的。你知道这有多困难吗？
SONY’S $4.4 billion in ticket sales last year was impressive, but shareholders care about profit margins.
索尼在去年的44亿美元票房收入确实令人印象深刻，但股东关心的是利润率。
The movie studio’s bottom line didn’t look better for several reasons. For one thing, about 75 percent of the “Skyfall” revenue went to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer after James Bond rights holders took their cut. Revenue from some DVD titles — “Zero Dark Thirty,” for instance — will come in the next fiscal year. But more important, “Men in Black 3” cost an arm and a leg, and when you’re making this many movies some are bound to miss: Sony’s hits were offset by the major flops “Total Recall” and Mr. Sandler’s “That’s My Boy.”
该制片厂的盈利不够好有几个原因。首先，在詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)版权持有人拿走了他们那一份后，《007：大破天幕杀机》75%的营收流向了米高梅(Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer)。来自一些DVD影片（例如《猎杀本·拉登》）的营收将计入下一个财年。但更重要的是，《黑衣人3》之类影片需要大笔投入，而当你拍摄许多影片时，其中一些肯定会赔钱：索尼的卖座影片受到《全面回忆》(Total Recall)和桑德勒的《爸爸的好儿子》(That’s My Boy)等重大失败之作的拖累。
Precise comparisons among studios are difficult; operations vary, and large media companies typically provide very limited breakdowns of their units’ profitability. But a report in March by Mr. Nathanson of Nomura noted that profit margins at Hollywood’s biggest movie operations had stabilized in recent years at roughly 11 percent — matching the most recent peak in 2007 — as companies cut costs and the number of film releases and focused on movies that play to a growing global market.
在制片厂之间进行精确对比是很难的；公司运作不同，而且大型媒体公司通常不愿详细说明各部门的盈利能力。但野村证劵的内桑森在3月发表的一份报告指出，好莱坞各大影业公司的利润率近年稳定在大约11%，这和2007年达到的上一个高峰差不多，原因是各公司削减了成本和影片发行数量，并聚焦于迎合日益增长的全球市场的影片。
The Nomura report did not include specific estimates for Sony’s film division, but Mr. Nathanson highlighted some surprising differences among the studios. Sony Pictures, by his count, released 35 films in 2012 — or 46 percent more than either Warner or Universal, which jointly ranked second with 24 when all of their specialty film units were included. While Disney has cut its picture count 54 percent since 2006, and both Fox and Warner Brothers reduced output more than 40 percent, Sony has cut its schedule only 21 percent. It has now passed Warner Brothers as Hollywood’s most prolific studio.
野村证券的报告并不包含对索尼电影部门的单独估算，但内桑森举例说明了制片厂之间的一些惊人差别。据他统计，索尼影业在2012年发行了35部影片，比华纳或环球影业(Universal)都高出46%，这两者并列第二，各发行了24部影片（计入它们出品的所有艺术电影）。迪斯尼自2006年以来把影片数目削减了54%，福克斯和华纳兄弟削减了40%以上，而索尼仅削减了21%。索尼已经超过华纳兄弟，成为好莱坞最高产的制片厂。
At Viacom, which owns Paramount, the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 offered a reminder that movie studios often bolster profitability by doing less, and spending less — and allowing income from older films to accrue.Viacom’s film revenue fell 19 percent last year, as it cut back on its release schedule and reined in spending. But the film profit margin jumped to about 6.7 percent in 2012 — even though Paramount ranked seventh at the domestic box office — from 5.8 percent in 2011, when it was No. 1 in ticket sales. “The mantra of most every studio has been shrink to profit, shrink to profit,” Mr. Nathanson said.
在拥有派拉蒙的维亚康姆公司(Viacom)，截至去年9月30日的财年提醒人们，电影制片厂往往可通过减少制作、减少支出——同时让老电影继续创收——来提高盈利能力。维亚康姆的电影业务营收在去年下跌了19%，因为它削减了影片制作计划并压缩了支出。但是电影业务利润率在2012年升至约6.7%，尽管派拉蒙在国内票房市场仅名列第七，其2011年的利润率是5.8%，当时它是票房第一名。“几乎每家制片厂的箴言都是，缩水来盈利，缩水来盈利，”内桑森说。
ON Sony’s Culver City lot, perhaps the most unnerving element of Mr. Loeb’s critique is that it threatens to disrupt the remarkable stability of Sony’s management. For decades, that team has cultivated internal ties and has often promoted from within.
在索尼的卡尔弗城大本营，勒布的批评中最令人不安的内容或许是，它可能会破坏索尼管理层的显著稳定性。几十年来，这个管理团队已经培养出密切的内部关系纽带，经常从内部提拔人才。
Ms. Pascal has run the film operation for almost 17 years, while Mr. Lynton has been the studio’s top officer since 2004. Steve Mosko, president of Sony Pictures Television, has been at the studio 21 years. Sony Pictures Classics, the art house division that puts out about 14 inexpensive films annually, has been run by Michael Barker and Tom Bernard for 21 years, and they recently extended their contracts into 2017.
帕斯卡尔执掌电影业务近17年，而林顿自2004年以来就是制片厂的首席执行官。索尼影业电视(Sony Pictures Television)总裁史蒂夫·莫斯科(Steve Mosko)已经在制片厂待了21年。艺术电影部门索尼经典影片(Sony Pictures Classics)每年发行约14部廉价影片，该部门由迈克尔·巴克尔(Michael Barker)和汤姆·伯纳德(Tom Bernard)运营了21年，最近他们的合同被延期到2017年。
Given those relationships, a Sony management shake-up might provoke rebellion among some of the most respected and powerful filmmakers in Hollywood.
考虑到这些关系，索尼管理层的变动可能会引起好莱坞一些最受尊敬和最有实力的电影人的反叛。
“They’re the strongest, smartest and most well-loved and respected studio management in the industry,” said Scott Rudin, the Oscar-winning producer. Mr. Rudin is behind “Captain Phillips,” a serious, ambitious film set for release by Sony on Oct. 11. It stars Tom Hanks as Capt. Richard Phillips, whose cargo ship was hijacked by Somali pirates in 2009.
“他们是业界最精明强干、最受人喜爱和尊敬的制片厂管理层，”曾获奥斯卡奖的制片人斯科特·鲁丁(Scott Rudin)说。鲁丁正在制作《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)，索尼定于10月11日发布这部严肃而雄心勃勃的影片。汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)在片中饰演理查德·菲利普斯船长(Richard Phillips)，他的货船在2009年被索马里海盗劫持。
“Michael and Amy have a massive amount of shrewdness, experience and institutional movie business knowledge and an almost unquantifiable reservoir of talent and filmmaker loyalty,” Mr. Rudin continued. “And, as such, they are likely better positioned to run a sleek, modern movie company than any of their competitors.”
“迈克尔和埃米具有大量的精明、经验和电影业商业知识，还有几乎无法量化的才华和电影人忠诚，”鲁丁继续说道，“因此，与他们的任何竞争对手相比，他们很可能更适合运营这家井然有序的现代电影公司。”
But, as Ms. Pascal noted in a 2011 interview with The New York Times, a series of hits, even among friends, inevitably leads to escalating pay demands — and, ultimately, the kind of profit squeeze that is now troubling Mr. Loeb. And in the film world, stable relationships can set off the occasional disaster.
但就像帕斯卡尔在《纽约时报》2011年采访中提到的一样，即便大家都是朋友，但一系列的卖座电影还是不可避免地导致薪酬开价扶摇直上，最终导致让勒布不安的利润挤压。同时，在电影圈内，稳定的关系偶尔会引发灾难。
Sony weathered one of those in 2010, with “How Do You Know,” which had a reported production budget of about $120 million — huge for a romance film. Starring Reese Witherspoon, it was written and directed by James L. Brooks, who was behind hits like “As Good as It Gets.” But it generated just $49 million in worldwide ticket sales. Mr. Brooks, who had long been close to Ms. Pascal, has since left the studio.
索尼在2010年经历过那么一次，《你怎么知道》(How Do You Know)的制作预算据报道达到1.2亿美元，对于一部爱情片来说非常高。这部影片由瑞茜·威瑟斯彭(Reese Witherspoon)主演，编剧和导演是詹姆斯·L·布鲁克斯(James L. Brooks)，曾拍摄过《尽善尽美》(As Good as It Gets)等卖座影片。但这部影片在全世界仅获得了4900万美元票房。此前一直与帕斯卡尔关系密切的布鲁克斯，在那之后离开了该制片厂。
As summer approaches and Sony turns to mainstays like Mr. Smith for “After Earth,” Seth Rogen and Jonah Hill for “This Is the End” and Channing Tatum for “White House Down,” the studio will face the usual questions about whether its favorite stars can generate big-enough profits. And this time, the person providing the answer may be Mr. Loeb.
随着夏季的来临，索尼转向一些支柱明星，例如《重返地球》的史密斯，《世界末日》的塞斯·罗根(Seth Rogen)和乔纳·希尔(Jonah Hill)，以及《惊天危机》的查宁·塔图姆(Channing Tatum)，该制片厂将面对通常的问题：其青睐的明星能否产生足够大的利润？而这一次，提供答案的人或许是勒布。