This is a review of the best pocket camera ever made.
这篇文章评论的对象是有史以来最好的袖珍相机。
But first, a history lesson.
但首先，先上堂历史课。
For years camera makers worried about competition from only one source: other camera makers. But in the end, the most dangerous predator came from an unexpected direction: cellphones.
多年来，相机制造商只担心来自一个方面的竞争：其他相机制造商。但最后，最危险的掠食者来自意想不到之处：手机。
Today, more photos are taken with phones than with point-and-shoot cameras. On photo sites like Flickr, the iPhone is the source of more photos than any real camera. No wonder sales of inexpensive pocket cameras are going down each year.
今天，更多人用手机而不是傻瓜式相机拍照。像在Flickr 这样的照片网站上，苹果手机拍的照片比其他任何相机都更多。难怪便宜的袖珍式相机销售量每年都在下滑。
Cameras in phones are a delightful development for the masses. If you have your camera with you, you’re more likely to take photos and more likely to capture amazing images.
对大众来说，手机内置相机是项令人愉悦的发明。如果你随身携带相机，那么你就更可能去照相并更可能捕捉到令人惊叹的图像。
But in a sense they are also great for camera makers, which are being forced to double down in areas where smartphones are useless: Zoom lenses. High resolution. Better photo quality. Flexibility and advanced features. That’s why, even if sales of pocket cameras are down, sales of high-end cameras are up.
但从某种意义上讲，这对相机制造商也是件大好事。他们被迫在智能手机无法施展拳脚的地方大下苦功：变焦镜头、高分辨率、更好的照片质量、灵活性和高级功能。这就是缘何袖珍相机销量下滑，而高端相机销量却有所上扬。
Now you know why the time is ripe for the new Sony Cyber-shot DSC-RX100. It’s a tiny, pants-pocketable camera that will be available in late July for the nosebleed price of $650.
现在，你该明白为什么对于新款索尼数码相机DSC-RX100(Sony Cyber-shotDSC-RX10)而言，现在是一个好时机了。这种小巧到可以放在裤子口袋里的相机将于今年七月底以650美元的天价上市。
Or, rather, won’t be available. It will be sold out everywhere. I’ll skip to the punch line: No photos this good have ever come from a camera this small.
或确切点说，这款相机可能根本买不到，因为到处都会将之抢购一空。我直接说关键点吧，这样小巧的相机从未拍出过质量如此之好的照片。
The first reason is easy to grasp. The Sony RX100 has a huge one-inch sensor — the biggest ever stuffed into a pocketable zoom camera. That’s not as big as the sensors in S.L.R.’s and other lens-swappable cameras. But it’s two and a half times the area of the Olympus XZ-1 and nearly three times the area of the previous pocket-camera photo-quality champ, the Canon PowerShot S100.
这里的第一个原因较好理解。索尼RX100有个巨大的一英寸传感器。可以说，这是有史以来在便携式变焦相机上安装的最大号传感器。这个传感器没有单反相机和其他可可换镜头式相机的大，却是奥林巴斯XZ-1的2.5倍，更是先前袖珍相机图质之王佳能PowerShotS100的3倍。
A big sensor means big pixels, which gives you less grain in low light, better color depth and great dynamic range — the spectrum from darkest to lightest pixels.
一个大传感器意味着高像素，在弱光下粗糙微粒更少、更好的颜色深度和更大的动态范围（一直从最黑到最亮的像素）。
A big sensor is also a prerequisite for that professional blurry background look. The RX100 easily achieves those soft backgrounds, a rarity in compact cameras.
大传感器也是制作专业虚化背景的前提。RX100可轻松实现柔性背景。这在便携相机里相当罕见。
The other star factor in the Sony is its Carl Zeiss lens, whose maximum aperture (lens opening) is f/1.8. That’s the widest aperture you can buy on a pocket camera. That, too, helps explain its ability to blur the background, and its spectacular results in low light.
索尼相机中另一个亮点是它的卡尔·蔡司(Carl Zeiss)镜头，其最大光圈（透镜孔径）是f/1.8。这是你能买到的袖珍相机里光圈最大的了。这也有助于解释其模糊背景的能力以及在弱光下不俗的效果。
But you know what? All of that is just shutterbug-speak for, “This camera takes amazing photos.” If you want to know what “huge sensor” and “big aperture” mean in the real world.
但你知道吗？所有上述一切不过用摄影爱好者的语言说出“这台相机拍出来的相片非常棒。”如果你想知道在真实世界中“大传感器”和“大光圈”意味着什么。
There you’ll see what makes the RX100 such a revelation: insane amounts of detail and vivid, true colors. Hand-held twilight photos. A burst mode that can fire 10 frames a second. And macro shots — super close up — that will curl whatever’s left of your hair.
你将在那里看到是什么使得RX100如此优秀:海量的细节和生动、真实的颜色；手持夜景模式；一秒十帧的连拍模式；以及近到让你感觉汗毛倒立的微距摄影（超级特写） 。
The RX100 is as customizable and manually controllable as an S.L.R., but it also has some impressive automated modes. They include Illustration (turns the photo into a colorful line drawing) and Sweep Panorama. You swing the camera around you in an arc, pressing the shutter button the whole time. When you stop, on your screen is a seamless 220-degree panorama. Canyons, crowd shots, Walmart interiors — you won’t believe how often it’s useful.
RX100可以和单反一样可以进行设定和手动控制。但它也有一些令人印象深刻的自动模式。其中包括插图（把图片转成彩色线条的图画）和全景扫描。按着快门时用相机扫过四周，形成一道弧线，停下来之后，屏幕上就会出现一个天衣无缝的220度全景图。不论是峡谷、人群镜头，还是沃尔玛的内部装饰，你简直无法相信它的用途有多广泛。
There’s no eyepiece viewfinder, a loss you may mourn. But the three-inch screen remains clear even in bright sunshine, thanks to an extra white pixel Sony has nestled in among every set of red, green and blue.
这款相机没有目镜取景器，你或许会为此黯然神伤。但即使是在明亮的阳光下，相机的三英寸屏幕依然清晰。这是因为索尼在红色、绿色、蓝色当中加入了额外的白色像素。
The 1080p video capture isn’t quite the same festival of crispness as the photos. But you can use all the photo effects while filming. And while recording, you can zoom, change focus and even take still photos.
1080P的视频没有照片那么清爽。但在拍摄时，所有的图片效果均可使用，你还可以缩放、改变对焦甚至拍摄静态图片。
Sony has taken the debatable step of bringing back in-camera charging. That is, there’s no external charger for the 330-shot battery. Instead, the camera is the charger, whenever it’s connected to a USB jack or a wall outlet. Pros: No charger to pack and lose. Cons: You can’t charge a spare battery while you’re out shooting.
有争议的是，索尼采用了机内充电。也就是说，该相机可以拍摄330张照片的电池没有外部充电器。只要连到USB接口或充电插座，相机本身就成为了充电器。这样做的优点是，无需携带，也不会丢失充电器。缺点是，当你外出拍摄时，你无法为备用电池充电。
As with its role model, the Canon S100, you can program the function of the Sony lens ring. It can control zoom, focus, exposure, aperture, whatever. But unlike the Canon’s ring, the Sony’s ring doesn’t click as you turn it — sounds that get picked up when you’re capturing video.
如同它的“榜样”佳能S100一样，你可以给索尼镜头圈的功用编程。镜头圈可以控制缩放、对焦、曝光、光圈等等。但是不同于佳能的镜头圈，当转动它时，索尼镜圈不会发出打扰视频拍摄的声响。
On the other hand, you don’t feel clicks either. The ring spins freely, which gives it a glassy feeling when you’re adjusting a setting with natural stopping points, like ISO or shutter speed.
另一方面，你也不会感觉到镜头圈入槽。镜头圈转动自如，当你调整ISO或快门速度等具有自然停止点的设置时，就会感觉过于平滑。
That’s not the only niggling downside. The biggest one, of course, is that there’s very little room for physical buttons. Novices will find it overwhelming. Then again, it’s fairly clear that this isn’t a camera for novices. 
这并不是唯一的琐碎缺点。最大的一个问题就是按键太少，为此新手会觉得很难上手。当然，这明显不是一个适合新手的相机。
The camera has a 3.6X zoom lens. The Canon S100 zooms more (5X zoom). On the other hand, the Sony takes 20-megapixel photos, versus 12 on the Canon.
相机有3.6倍的变焦镜头。佳能S100缩放的更多（5倍缩放）。但索尼可以拍摄两千万像素的图片，而佳能则是一千两百万像素。
Ordinarily I’m not a fan of cramming more pixels into a camera as a marketing ploy. But on Sony’s sensor, these are really useful pixels. You can crop away a huge part of the photo and still have lots of megapixels left for big prints; in effect, you’re amplifying the zoom.
通常，我不喜欢将更高的像素塞到相机中这种市场营销方式。但在索尼的传感器中，这些都是真正有用的像素。在裁掉一大块相片之后，你仍能用省下部分冲洗出大幅照片；实际上，你这样做是在放大缩放倍数。
One last downside: In certain photos, when I adjusted the overall contrast in Photoshop later, I noticed some vignetting — darkened areas at the corners.
最后一个缺点：在某些照片中，当我在Photoshop上进行整体对比度的调整时，我注意到照片角落的昏暗部分出现了一些光晕。
This is an ideal second camera for professionals. And it’s a great primary camera for any amateur who wants to take professional-looking photos without having to carry a camera bag.
对于专业人士来说，这是一个理想的第二相机。对那些想拍看似专业的照片又不要背个相机袋的业余人士而言，这是个极好的首选相机。
Of course, $650 is crazy expensive. You can buy a full-blown S.L.R. for that much.
当然，650美元实在太过昂贵。用同样多的钱，你都能买部真正的单反了。
But every time you transfer a batch of its pictures to your computer, you’ll understand why you spent that money. You’ll click through them, astonished at how often it’s successful in stopping time, capturing the emotion of a scene, enshrining a memory or an expression you never want to forget. You’ll appreciate that the RX100 has single-handedly smashed the rule that said, “You need a big camera for pro-quality photos.”
但每当一批图片传到电脑中，你就会明白自己为何要花这么多的钱了。用鼠标点过去，你会震惊于它是如何成功地停止时间、捕捉场景的情感、珍藏你绝不想要忘记的记忆和表情。你会明白，RX100单枪匹马打破了以下规则：要拍出有专业品质的相片，你得有个大相机。