Athletes and their families are becoming increasingly anxious about possible terrorist attacks at the Winter Olympics in Sochi, so much so that some families have decided not to attend and others plan to curtail their activities once they get to the Games in Russia.
运动员及家属越来越担心，本届在索契举办的冬奥会可能会遭到恐怖袭击，因此一些运动员的家人已经决定不前往现场观赛，还有一些则打算在俄罗斯停留期间减少外出活动。
No American athletes have yet canceled plans to compete because of terrorist threats. But with increasing talk about unrest in the region and threats from would-be suicide bombers, some family members say they are reconsidering long-held plans to support the athletes at the Games.
迄今为止，还没有任何美国运动员因恐怖主义威胁取消比赛计划。但随着人们对该区域动荡局势以及遭到自杀式炸弹袭击可能性的谈论甚嚣尘上，有些运动员的家人表示，虽然他们早就打算去冬奥会现场为亲人助威，但眼下他们正在重新考虑这个计划。
“It’s getting to the point where our lives are on the line if we go there,” said Tim Oshie, whose son, T. J., is on the United States hockey team. “They’re talking about terrorizing families. I’d rather stay in the homeland.”
“现在已经到了要去那里得冒生命危险的地步，”蒂姆·奥谢(Tim Oshie)说，他的儿子TJ是美国冰球队成员。“他们提到针对运动员家人的恐怖活动。我宁愿留在家乡。”
In the most recent in a series of unnerving incidents, the Olympic teams from the United States and some European countries received emails this week warning them that they would be attacked if they took part in the Games. The messages were determined to be hoaxes, but the episode added to the skittishness that is permeating the mood as the Feb. 7 opening ceremony approaches. Members of Congress have recently expressed concern about the safety of the 10,000 or so Americans planning to travel to Sochi.
迄今已经发生了一系列令人不安的事件，最近一起发生在本周：美国和一些欧洲国家的奥运代表队收到警告邮件，称如果他们参加冬奥会将会遭到袭击。这些邮件已经被证实是恶作剧，但随着2月7日开幕式的临近，这一事件加剧了人们的不安情绪。约有1万名美国人计划前往索契，国会议员最近表达了对他们人身安全的担心。
“We’re all thinking the atmosphere is not going to be super easygoing when we get there,” said Julia Mancuso, a three-time Olympic medalist in skiing who is competing in Sochi.
“我们都觉得，我们到那里的时候气氛不会很轻松。”计划去索契参赛的朱莉娅·曼库索(Julia Mancuso)说。她获得过三块滑雪奥运奖牌。
Patrick Sandusky, a spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee, the organization responsible for the delegation of American athletes at the Games, refused on Friday to answer questions about whether athletes and their families had expressed concern to Olympic officials, what kind of guidance the organization was giving athletes regarding security and whether any special security measures would be provided in Sochi.
美国奥林匹克委员会(United States Olympic Committee)是负责美国运动员奥运会代表团的组织，其发言人帕特里克·桑达斯基(Patrick Sandusky)上周五被问及运动员和他们的家人是否向奥运官员表达过担忧，该组织给运动员提供了什么样的安全指导，以及是否会在索契提供特殊安全措施时，他拒绝作答。
In a statement this week, Scott Blackmun, the U.S.O.C.’s chief executive, said, “As is always the case, we are working with the U.S. Department of State, the local organizers and the relevant law enforcement agencies in an effort to ensure that our delegation and other Americans traveling to Sochi are safe.”
在本周的一份声明中，美国奥委会秘书长斯科特·布莱克姆恩(Scott Blackmun)说，“依照常规，我们正在与美国国务院、地方机构及相关执法机构协调合作，以保障美国代表团和其他前往索契的美国人的安全。”
This month, the State Department issued a travel advisory warning Americans planning to go to Sochi that terrorists had threatened to attack the Winter Games and urging them to “remain vigilant.” On Friday, the Obama administration sought to quell fears, saying that it had adequate plans in place to protect the security of athletes, sponsors and American visitors to the Games. “We’ve been working long and hard to liaise with the Russian security forces,” a senior administration official told reporters.
本月，美国国务院发布旅游警告，称恐怖分子曾威胁要在冬奥会上发起攻击，并敦促打算前往索契的美国人“保持警惕”。上周五，奥巴马政府试图平息人们的恐惧情绪，称政府有完善的计划来保障本届冬奥会运动员、赞助商和美国观众的安全。“我们耗费了很多的时间和精力与俄罗斯安全部队进行协调联络，”一位高级政府官员告诉记者。
While “we’ve seen an uptick in security threats,” the official continued, such threats are “not unusual for a major international event like this.”
这名官员表示，虽然“我们已经发现安全风险在升高”，但这样的威胁“对于像这样重大的国际盛会来说也并不少见”。
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who has staked his international reputation on the success of the Games and for whom a terrorist attack would be as much a personal as a political blow, said recently that Russia would “do our best” to keep Sochi secure. In addition to forming a so-called Ring of Steel — a special security cordon for people and vehicles — in the area around Sochi, Russia plans to deploy a security force of 40,000 people and set up six missile-defense systems, among other measures.
俄罗斯总统普京已经用他的国际声誉来为这次冬奥会的成功担保，对他来说，发生恐怖袭击不仅是政治事件，而且也是与他个人作对。普京近日表示，俄罗斯将“竭尽所能”来保障索契的安全。除了在索契周围的区域使用所谓的“铜墙铁壁”(Ring of Steel)——一道针对人员和车辆的特殊安全警戒线——之外，俄罗斯还计划部署4万人的安全部队，设立六个导弹防御系统，并采取其他一些安全措施。
“We have a perfect understanding of the scope of the threat and how to deal with it and how to prevent it,” Putin said in a television interview this month. “We will protect our air and sea space as well as the mountain cluster.”
“我们非常清楚这种威胁的范围，非常清楚如何应对它，预防它。”普京在本月初接受电视采访时表示。“我们将保护我们的领空、领海，以及山脉。”
But the last few months have revealed the difficulties in defending against terrorism. Suicide bombers have struck Volgograd, an industrial city about 400 miles north of Sochi, three times since the fall — once in October and twice within the space of 24 hours at the end of December, killing at least 34 people and injuring dozens.
但过去几个月，一些事件已经显示了防范恐怖活动有多困难。自去年秋天以来，索契以北大约400英里的工业城市伏尔加格勒遭到了三次自杀式炸弹袭击：第一次发生在10月，第二、三次是在12月底连续24小时内先后发生，一共造成至少34人遇难，数十人受伤。
A Pentagon official said recently that the United States would station two Navy warships in the Black Sea, next to Sochi, in case any Americans needed to be evacuated after a terrorist attack or other emergency.
五角大楼的一名官员近日说，美国将在黑海靠近索契的水域部署两艘海军军舰，以供遭遇恐怖袭击或者其他紧急情况时撤离美国人之需。
Senior American officials have said in interviews in recent weeks that they are more concerned about these Games than they have been for any since the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. For those Games, American officials were fearful that terrorists groups like Al Qaeda in Pakistan — which was still a fairly organized and potent force — and an indigenous Greek terrorist group would exploit the country’s weak internal security. Unlike the Russians, the Greeks were far more receptive to help from American law enforcement and intelligence officials, who ultimately played a significant role in the security for the Games.
美国高级官员在最近几周的采访中说，他们对本届冬奥会的担心，是自2004年雅典夏季奥运会以来最严重的一次。对于雅典奥运会，美国官员担心的是一些恐怖组织利用希腊内部安保的薄弱开展袭击，比如巴基斯坦的基地组织(Al Qaeda)——当时它仍然是一股很有组织的强大势力——和希腊本土的恐怖组织。跟俄罗斯人不同的是，希腊人非常容易接受来自美国执法部门和情报官员的帮助，而美国人也确实在雅典奥运会的安保工作中发挥了显著作用。
“This is unique among Olympics from a preparatory standpoint for us,” said Dan Richards, the chief executive of Global Rescue, a company that provides crisis medical services. The United States Ski and Snowboard Association is one of its clients.
“从我们这边的准备工作来看，本次的情况在奥运会中是独一无二的，”提供紧急医疗服务的“全球救援”(Global Rescue)公司首席执行官丹·理查兹(Dan Richards)说。美国滑雪与滑雪滑板协会(United States Ski and Snowboard Association)是该公司客户之一。
“The terrain works against you,” Richards said, referring to Sochi’s setting on the Black Sea and at the foot of the Caucasus Mountains. “But it also makes some areas hard to attack. Having individuals who are bad actors try to do something in any sizable way or organize an attack would be difficult. We haven’t seen this level of sophistication yet and hopefully we never will.”
“地形对我们不利，”理查兹说，他是指索契在黑海边和高加索山脉脚下的地理位置。“但是，这也使得一些区域不容易遭到攻击。几个心怀不轨的人想采取大规模的行动或组织起一次袭击是很困难的。我们还没有看到这种水平的行动迹象，希望永远都不会看到。”
There is no question that people are nervous. Greg Bretz, an American snowboarder, said he considered hiring a bodyguard to protect his father, Greg, and his father’s girlfriend, who are both traveling to Sochi.
人们的紧张心情是毫无疑问的。美国单板滑雪运动员格雷格·布雷茨(Greg Bretz)说想聘请保镖来保护准备前往索契的父亲格雷格以及女友。
The elder Bretz declined, saying: “My thought is, they’re not just sniper shooting. If they’re going to do anything, they’re going to blow everything up.”
老布雷茨拒绝了，他说：“我觉得他们不会只是搞搞狙击。如果他们要采取行动，就会来场大爆炸。”
The American hockey player Dustin Brown played in the 2010 Vancouver Games for the United States, so his family, which went to those Olympics, had already planned to stay home this time because of the distance and the expense.
美国冰球选手达斯汀·布朗(Dustin Brown)曾代表美国出战过2010年温哥华冬奥会，他的家人去过那届奥运会现场，但今年计划留在家中，因为一来距离比较远，二来费用也比较高。
“Anybody who’s not concerned is probably lying,” he said about Sochi, adding, “I think it’s fair to say there’s some concern there.”
“说不担心是在撒谎，”他在谈到索契的安全问题时说，“我认为，说对那里有些顾虑比较恰当。”
Several family members of American athletes said they planned to stay on the cruise ships in the Black Sea that have been turned into floating Olympics accommodations. Following official advice that has been given to some athletes’ families, they also plan to forgo Team USA outfits outside the sports venues themselves; some also said they were not yet certain they would do any sightseeing.
美国一些运动员的家人表示，他们计划留在黑海的游轮上，那里已经变成漂浮的奥运住宿地。一些家属决定听取官方的建议，在体育场馆之外不穿美国队的服装，还有些人表示，他们尚不确定是否会参加任何观光活动。
Christian Niccum, a member of the United States luge team, said that among the emails the athletes had received about Olympic security, one stressed that they should not take part in political protests or do anything to draw attention to themselves as “loud Americans,” as he put it.
美国雪橇队队员克里斯蒂安·尼库安(Christian Niccum)说，运动员已收到一些有关奥运安全问题的邮件，其中一封强调他们不应该参与政治抗议活动，也不要去做什么事让别人注意到他们这些——用他的话说——“喧闹的美国人”。
That is fine with him.
他觉得这不成问题。
“I’m not going to worry about it,” he said. “To be honest, I’m just going sledding.”
“我不会担心这事，”他说。“说实话，我只是去滑雪橇的。”