KRASNAYA POLYANA, Russia — With the Winter Olympics melting under a heat wave, the effects could be seen Thursday from the coast of Sochi, where spectators were spotted sunbathing, to the mountains high above the city, where cross-country skiers raced in sleeveless jerseys. The balmy weather has forced changes in competition schedules, sent workers scrambling to harden the slushy snow and made Olympians reconsider what to wear for their warm-weather winter sports.
俄罗斯卡拉斯拉雅波利亚纳——随着热浪袭来，此次冬季奥运会(Winter Olympics)也在慢慢消融。周四，从索契海岸上晒日光浴的观众，再到高山上身着无袖上衣进行越野滑雪比赛的滑雪者，这种影响随处可见。由于天气温暖，人们不得不对比赛安排做出改变，工作人员也在手忙脚乱地让松软的融雪变坚硬，还让奥运会选手们开始重新考虑他们应该穿着什么来在这种温暖的气候中进行冬季比赛。
“You sit outside in a T-shirt and shorts — that’s not winter,” said Christoph Sumann of the Austrian biathlon team. “You don’t know what to wear for the race.” He settled on the thinnest T-shirt he could find. A teammate, he said, wore nothing beneath his racing uniform.
“你穿着T恤和短裤坐在外面，这可不是冬季，”澳大利亚冬季两项队的成员克里斯托弗·休曼(Christoph Sumann)说。“你根本不知道应该穿什么去比赛。”他穿了自己能找到的最薄的T恤。他说，有个队友在赛服下面什么都没穿。
“It’s absolutely too warm for me,” he said. “I’m a winter guy.”
“这对于我来说真的太暖和了，”他说。“我是个喜欢冬季的人。”
So far, these Olympics have not been a good fit for those who like their Winter Games wintry. It has not snowed since the Olympics began last week, and most days have brought bright sunshine and springlike temperatures.
截至目前，那些希望冬季奥运会在寒冷气候中进行的人，并没有很好地适应这些奥运赛事。自上周奥运会开始以来，这里一直没有下雪，而且大部分时候都阳光灿烂，温度近似春季。
“I’ve never seen it this warm at a Winter Games,” said Max Cobb, a senior official with the International Biathlon Union, who has attended every Winter Olympics since 1992. Cobb was in constant radio contact with the crew spreading salt, meant to turn the slush into water, then back into ice.
“我从未见过这么温暖的冬奥会，”国际冬季两项联盟(International Biathlon Union)的高级官员马克斯·科布(Max Cobb)说。他参加了自1992年以来的每届奥运会。他一直在与负责撒盐的团队保持联系。撒盐是为了把融雪变成水，然后再变为冰。
“If we were competing now, the women would probably be in shorts and bibs and jogging bras,” Cobb said.
科布说，“如果我们现在比赛，女运动员可能要穿短裤、背心和慢跑胸衣。”
Weather for the 2014 Games has been a concern since the International Olympic Committee made Sochi the first host of the Olympics in a subtropical climate. The southern Russian city sits on the Black Sea, some of its promenades lined by palm trees. Sochi hardly counts as a winter wonderland in a nation all too familiar with freezing temperatures: It was minus-25 degrees Fahrenheit, about minus-32 Celsius, in Siberia on Thursday.
索契是首个举办奥运会的亚热带气候城市，自从国际奥委会(International Olympic Committee)选定索契之后，人们便一直对2014年冬奥会的天气状况感到担心。这座位于俄罗斯南部的城市坐落在黑海旁，有些道路旁还种着棕榈树。俄罗斯很多地方的气温都极低——周四西伯利亚的气温为华氏零下25度，约摄氏零下32度——相比之下，索契根本算不上是冰雪世界。
Organizers have long dismissed concerns about the warm weather. After a warm spell a year ago disrupted test events, they stockpiled huge mounds of snow, stashed it in shady spots and covered it with insulating material to help most of it last through the summer.
一直以来，组织者都对这种担心不屑一顾。一年前，在资格赛受到温暖的气候干扰后，他们便储存了大量的雪，他们把这些雪存放在阴凉的地方，用隔热材料盖起来，让大多数雪都能够撑过夏季。
Now, there seems to be enough snow, thanks in large part to a heavy winter storm and one of the world’s largest snow-making operations. The problem is the condition of the snow. Puddles of slush would complicate nearly all the outdoor events, jeopardizing contests that Olympians have spent years training for.
如今，多亏一场大的冬季暴风雪和世界上最大的制雪行动，这里的雪似乎够了。问题是这些雪的状态。融雪形成的坑将会使所有户外赛事的状况复杂化，从而阻碍竞赛。为了参赛，奥运选手们可是花费了多年时间去训练的。
Organizers kicked into high gear Thursday to prevent that. In the middle of the night, machines covered the biathlon course with salt. Then, after the sun came up, a crew of 15 workers walked the four-kilometer cross-country course, carrying buckets of large-grained salt. The workers sprinkled the salt onto the tracks in the manner of people feeding birds.
周四，组织者开始花大力气来阻止前述现象的发生。午夜时分，他们用机器在冬季两项的赛道上铺盐。太阳出来后，一个由15名工作人员组成的团队便抬着一桶桶大颗粒的盐，走在长4公里的越野赛道上。他们把盐往赛道上洒的样子就像在喂鸟。
The men’s super combined Alpine ski race scheduled for Friday was moved to 10 a.m. local time from 11 a.m. to counter midday temperatures that were expected to approach the mid-50s Fahrenheit, around 13 Celsius. Afternoon temperatures at the RusSki Gorki Jumping Center, home of ski jumping and Nordic combined, reached 63 degrees Fahrenheit on Thursday. The competition manager there said the site had a deep base, partly because trucks had been sent into the mountains last month to fetch fresh snow.
为了避过正午的高温，计划于周五举行的男子全能高山滑雪赛从当地时间早上11点被提前到了10点举行，预计正午的气温将接近50华氏度，即大约13摄氏度。周四下午，跳台滑雪和北欧两项的比赛场馆罗斯基高奇跳台中心(RusSki Gorki Jumping Center)的气温达到了63华氏度。比赛场馆的管理人员说，该中心基部的雪堆得相当深，部分原因是他们于上个月派卡车到山里拉来了新雪。
At the jumping center, and every other mountain site, salt was being applied liberally.
跳台中心及其他所有山地场馆区都撒了大量的盐。
“It would be really good if temperatures could dip down overnight, to get those perfect icy conditions,” said Jenny Wiedeke, communications manager for the F.I.S., the international ski federation that oversees skiing and snowboarding. “But this is something we battle as an outdoor sport.”
主管滑雪和单板滑雪赛事的国际滑雪联盟(International Ski Federation，简称FIS)传媒主管詹妮·维德克(Jenny Wiedeke)说，“如果气温能在夜间下降，获得那种完美的冰况，那就太好了。不过，作为一项户外运动，这是滑雪必须应对的局面。”
While blue skies and snow-capped peaks provided enticing backdrops, some of the sites seemed better suited for beach volleyball than for winter sports. Men without shirts walked toward the biathlon stadium, where officials had traded their parkas for T-shirts. In a particularly ominous sign, mosquitoes were spotted.
蓝天和白雪覆盖的山峰提供了诱人的背景，然而其中的一些场馆似乎更适合打沙滩排球，而不是进行冬季运动。赤膊的男子朝冬季两项场馆走去，那里的管理人员把风雪大衣换成了T恤。一个尤为不祥的迹象是，人们看到了蚊子。
At the sun-splashed site of the cross-country skiing events, where temperatures rose toward 60 degrees Fahrenheit, or about 15 Celsius, on Thursday, women raced in sleeveless jerseys. Fans wore T-shirts, and skiers slogged through the soft snow.
周四，在阳光普照的越野滑雪赛场地，气温在向60华氏度、即约15摄氏度攀升，女选手穿着无袖运动服比赛。粉丝们穿着T恤，滑雪选手艰难地从软雪上滑过。
Afternoon temperatures in the upper 50s Fahrenheit were expected through Saturday across the mountain sites, including the bottom of the skiing site and the Rosa Khutor Extreme Park, where snowboarding and freestyle skiing are taking place.
预计从今天下午到周六，所有山地场馆区的温度都将超过50华氏度，其中包括了滑雪场的最低点和罗萨胡特高山滑雪中心(Rosa Khutor Extreme Park)，后一处是单板滑雪赛和自由式滑雪赛的比赛场馆。
Night will bring little relief, as temperatures are forecast to stay well above freezing. Cooler weather, but with temperatures still above freezing, has been predicted beginning Sunday, but rain is possible.
夜晚也无法缓解多少压力，因为预计气温会稳稳地维持在零度以上。预计自本周日始会有降温，但气温依然会高于零度，且有可能会下雨。
Weather worries were exacerbated by the 2010 Vancouver Games, which faced an unusual dearth of snow and record high temperatures. There was so little snow at the site for snowboarding that more had to be hauled in.
2010年的温哥华冬奥会(Vancouver Games)加剧了人们对天气情况的担忧，那次冬奥会遭遇了雪量异乎寻常匮乏的情况和创纪录的高温。单板滑雪赛场馆的雪少到主办方不得不运更多的雪进来。
Sochi has not yet resorted to such drastic measures, but if the snow continues to melt, it could prove disastrous for events like the cross-country portions of the biathlon. Picture skiing through oatmeal.
索契尚未采取如此极端的措施，不过如果雪继续融化，可能会对冬季两项里的越野比赛等赛事造成灾难性的影响。想想在燕麦粥里滑雪的景象吧。
“It really affects a lot of things,” said Tim Burke of the United States biathlon team. He travels with 25 pairs of skis. On Thursday, for the first time, he wore his most extreme warm-weather skis. Instead of the usual layers of long underwear, he wore only a T-shirt under his uniform.
冬季两项美国队成员蒂姆·伯克(Tim Burke)说，“这真的影响了许多比赛。”他此行带了25副滑雪板。周四，他第一次穿上了应对最温暖天气的那副滑雪板。他没有像往常那样穿一层又一层的长内衣，而是在比赛服下穿了一件T恤。
Many spectators at the biathlon stadium left their coats unzipped, if they wore them at all. Gloves were stuffed in pockets, heads uncovered. Victor Medvedev and his wife, Yelena Tikhonov, were visiting from Chelyabinsk, in Siberia.
冬季两项场馆里的许多观众都拉开了外套拉链，如果他们还穿着外套的话。他们的手裸露在外，手套被塞进了口袋。维克托·梅德韦杰夫 (Victor Medvedev)和妻子叶连娜·吉洪诺夫(Yelena Tikhonov)从西伯利亚的车里雅宾斯克来到了比赛现场。
“Of course we didn’t expect anything like this, so we had to leave our winter boots and thermal underwear in the hotel,” Medvedev said. “We also had heavier hats.”
梅德韦杰夫说，“我们显然根本没有料到，情况会是这样，所以，我们不得不把冬靴和保暖内衣留在酒店里。我们还带了更厚的帽子。”
Tikhonov added, “It’s much better than minus-18.”
吉洪诺夫补充说，“这比零下18度好多了。”