Sony said late on Monday that it planned to hold onto all of its vast entertainment arm, rejecting a proposal by one of the Japanese conglomerate’s biggest investors, the activist hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb.
索尼(Sony)在周一晚间表示，计划保留旗下大型娱乐公司的全部股份，拒绝了这家日本企业集团最大的投资者之一、积极型对冲基金经理丹尼尔·S·勒布(Daniel S. Loeb)的提议。
The decision, announced in a publicly disclosed letter to Mr. Loeb, raises questions about whether the famously feisty investor will stage a public fight with the company. Mr. Loeb first disclosed a big stake in Sony — now about 7 percent — in May, in a big bet that he can successfully shake up a Japanese company when many foreign shareholders have tried, and failed.
这一决定通过一封致勒布的公开信宣布，人们怀疑，这位以活跃著称的投资者是否会与该公司展开公开对抗。勒布在5月份首次披露了他所持有的大量索尼股份（现在大约为7%），冒了很大的风险，希望能成功地重组一家日本公司，尽管许多外国股东都已尝试过，并以失败告终。
The letter followed a meeting between Mr. Loeb and Sony’s bankers on July 17, at the hedge fund manager’s Midtown Manhattan offices.
这封信发表之前，勒布曾与贷款给索尼的银行在7月17日会晤，地点是这名对冲基金经理在曼哈顿中城的办公室。
Sony’s chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, wrote in Monday’s letter that the company had considered Mr. Loeb’s proposal of spinning off a portion of the entertainment unit to the public markets. But after consulting with its financial advisers, Sony believed that owning all of the business would let it better mesh with its core electronics operations, without the legal encumbrances that a partial split-off would entail.
索尼首席执行官平井一夫(Kazuo Hirai)在周一的信中写道，该公司已经考虑了勒布的提议：将娱乐部分分拆出来上市。但在咨询了其财务顾问之后，索尼认为保留娱乐部门的全部，能让它更好地配合其核心电子业务的发展，也无需担心部分剥离将带来的法律负担。
Moreover, Mr. Hirai wrote that Sony had considered and dismissed the notion that the company needs the capital that Mr. Loeb’s plan would have generated. Should it need to raise more money, the conglomerate would look to other avenues for financing.
此外平井一夫还写道，索尼已经考虑并否决了外界的这种想法，认为索尼需要勒布的方案所能带来的资金。如果需要筹集更多资金，索尼集团将寻求其他融资途径。
But Mr. Hirai did make one concession, writing that Sony’s entertainment arm will begin disclosing more information about the performance of the business.
但平井一夫确实作出了一个让步，他写道，索尼娱乐部门将开始披露更多有关业务表现的信息。
Advisers to Sony had also recommended rejecting the proposal because of the tough history of partial spin-offs, according to a person briefed on the matter. A number of companies have tried listing subsidiaries on the public markets, with many having resorted to buying back the operation afterward.
据一名获悉此事的人透露，索尼的顾问也建议拒绝这一提议，原因是以往业务剥离时出现的艰难局面。许多公司都曾尝试让子公司公开上市，其中许多在后来都对这些业务进行了回购。
Among those instances was the News Corporation‘s brief experiment with having its Fox Entertainment arm listed publicly in 1998, only to take it private again seven years later.
这些事例包括新闻集团(News Corporation)所做的简短尝试，它在1998年将其子公司福克斯娱乐集团(Fox Entertainment)公开上市，不过在七年之后又将其收归私有。
A representative for Mr. Loeb wasn’t immediately available for comment.
没能立刻联络到勒布的代表对本文做出置评。