When you’re shopping for a camera, you have a million specs and features to consider. Size, weight, battery life, megapixels, zoom power. ... Can you guess which aspect consumers consider most important?
买相机时，你有无数细节和特征要考虑：尺寸、重量、电池寿命、百万像素、变焦能力……但是，你猜消费者最看重什么？
The color of the body. (“Ooh, I like the shiny red one!”)
机身颜色。（“哇哦，我喜欢那个闪亮的红色的！”）
The camera buyer for a national electronics chain told me that. We both slapped our foreheads.
这是一家全国电器连锁店的相机采购员告诉我的。我们对此都无语。
Please. If you’re buying a camera, shouldn’t picture quality be the most important detail?
天哪。您买相机，最应当看重的难道不是照片质量吗？
If so, what you should care most about is the flat, rectangular light sensor inside the “film.” In general, the bigger the sensor, the happier you’ll be with the results and the more you’ll pay.
如果最看重照片质量，最关心的就应该是“胶卷”里面那个扁平的矩形光传感器。通常传感器越大，效果也就越令人满意，更让人愿意花钱购买。
At the low end, snapshot cameras with tiny sensors (0.4 inches diagonal) cost $150 but give you blurry, grainy low-light shots. At the high end, those professional, big, black S.L.R. cameras cost $2,000 to $6,000 but come with full-frame sensors. That is, these sensors are as big as an old piece of 35-millimeter film (1.7 inches). They deliver unparalleled low-light quality, richness of color, detail and soft-focused backgrounds.
在低端机层面，传感器很小（对角线0.4英寸，约合1厘米）的快照相机售价150美元（约合人民币900元），但在微弱光线下只能给你模糊粗糙的照片。在高端机层面，那种专业的、硕大的黑色单反相机售价在2000到6000美元不等，但是有全画幅传感器。也就是说，这种传感器有旧式的35毫米（1.7英寸）胶片那么大。这种相机在微弱光线下成像效果绝佳，照片色彩丰富，细节完美，柔焦背景效果上乘。
(You can buy cameras with even bigger sensors — medium-format cameras that cost $20,000 and military cameras that cost millions — but let’s say you live in the real world.)
（你可以买有更大传感器的相机：售价2万美元的中画幅相机，以及数百万美元的军用相机。但暂且假设你生活在现实世界。）
All of this explains why Sony’s 2013 camera/camcorder lineup is so startling. The company has put full-frame sensors into three new cameras, at prices and body sizes that nobody has ever attained.
这一切都解释了为什么索尼(Sony)的2013年照相机/摄像机产品系列如此令人吃惊。该公司推出三款配备全画幅传感器的新相机，而其售价及机身尺寸是此前无人企及的。
For example, there’s the A99, which Sony says is the world’s smallest and lightest full-frame S.L.R. It’s meant to compete with professional cameras like the Canon 5D Mark III ($3,200) and Nikon D800 ($3,000) — for $2,800. (These prices are for the bodies only.)
以A99为例，索尼称，这是全球最小、最轻的全画幅单反相机。该产品售价2800美元，意在同佳能(Canon)5D Mark III（3200美元）和尼康(Nikon)D800（3000美元）等专业相机竞争。（这些价格仅为机身价格。）
The A99 is sort of homely, but it has a long list of distinguishing features: fast, continuous focusing, even while filming or shooting something running at you; two memory-card slots; built-in GPS function that stamps every photo with your location; 1080p, 60-frames-a-second high-definition video; microphone and headphone jacks; and an electronic viewfinder whose video shows you the results of your adjustments in real time.
A99有些貌不惊人，但却有诸多突出功能：快速、连续聚焦、甚至在为迎面跑来的东西摄像或拍照时也是如此；可以插两张记忆卡；内置GPS功能，可以为每张照片印上精确位置；可拍摄每秒60帧的1080p高清影像；具有耳机和话筒插孔；还有电子取景器，其视频图像可让你实时查看调整结果。
Sony says the A99 is also the only full-frame camera with a screen that flips out and tilts.
索尼称，A99也是唯一一款屏幕可以翻转的全画幅相机。
Then there’s the VG900, Sony’s first full-frame camcorder. It costs $3,300 — about $10,000 less than any other full-frame camcorder, Sony says. And its sensor is about 45 times as big as a standard camcorder’s sensor.
还有索尼首台全画幅摄像机VG900。其售价为3300美元，索尼称，这比其他任何全画幅摄像机都便宜约1万美元。其传感器尺寸约为标准摄像机传感器的45倍。
Now, a huge sensor may not seem to make sense in a camcorder. One frame of hi-def video has only about two megapixels of resolution; what’s the point of stuffing a 24-megapixel sensor into the camcorder?
说到这儿，为摄像机配备巨大传感器似乎没有意义。一帧高清影像的分辨率仅为两兆像素；为什么要在摄像机里装一个24兆像素的传感器呢？
Answer: It’s about picture quality. A big sensor gives you amazing low-light video, gorgeous blurry backgrounds, greater dynamic range and better color.
答案：意义在于画面质量。大传感器可以在微弱光线下拍摄令人叹为观止的视频，有美丽的模糊背景效果，更大的动态范围，以及更好的色彩。
Thousands of filmmakers use full-frame S.L.R. still cameras to shoot video, because of the superior quality and because they can use different lenses for different video effects. S.L.R-based camcorders like Sony’s VG900 offer the same features in a camcorder shape. They’re much more comfortable to hold, and their buttons are better placed for video operation.
数以千计的摄像师使用全画幅单反静态相机摄像，因为其摄像质量上乘，而且可以使用不同镜头得到不同视频效果。索尼VG900等基于单反的摄像机以摄像机的形状提供同样的功能，该产品握着手感更舒服，其按钮布局也更适合视频操作。
The most astonishing new full-frame Sony, though, is the RX1. It’s the world’s first compact full-frame camera.
然而，最惊人的索尼全画幅新产品是RX1。这是全球首款全画幅小巧相机。
Now, you’re forgiven if you just spewed your coffee. “Compact” and “full-frame” have never gone together before. Everyone knows why: a big sensor requires a big lens, meaning a big camera. You can’t change the laws of physics, no matter how much photographers would love it.
如果您现在一口咖啡喷了出来，那是情有可原的。“全画幅”和“小巧”这两个词以前从未出现在一个句子里。谁都知道为什么：大传感器需要大镜头，意味着相机也很大。无论摄影者多么喜欢小巧的全画幅相机，你都无法改变物理法则。
But somehow, incredibly, Sony’s engineers have done it. The RX1 is easily coat-pocketable, but yes, there’s a full-frame sensor in there, and the photos it delivers are breathtaking.
但是，令人难以置信的是，索尼的工程师却设法做到了这一点。RX1可以轻易装在外套口袋里。但是，真的，RX1有全画幅传感器，拍出来的照片美的令人叹为观止。
You’ll pay a crazy price for this achievement: $2,800. That’s not out of line for full-frame cameras, but it’s more than the full-frame Nikon D600 ($2,000), for example.
你得为这种成就付出疯狂的价钱：2800美元。尽管在全画幅相机中，这不算贵的离谱，但举例而言，它比尼康D600全画幅相机（2000美元）贵。
That’s not the only price you’ll pay for this amazing act of miniaturization. This camera doesn’t zoom, apart from a 2x digital, fake zoom. And its lens is permanently attached. To make the whole thing smaller, Sony cleverly hid part of the long lens inside the camera’s inch-thick body; still, you can’t swap out lenses. Something had to give.
你要为这种神奇的微型化付出的代价还不只是高价格。这台相机不能变焦。尽管有两倍的数码变焦功能，但是数码变焦并非真正的变焦。而且镜头是永远固定的。为了把整台相机做的小一些，索尼很聪明地把长镜头的一部分藏在了一英寸厚的机身里；可是，你不能更换镜头。毕竟总有一些取舍。
So who on earth would pay $2,800 for a nonzooming camera?
那究竟谁会花2800美元买一台不能变焦的相机呢？
Believe it or not, they’re out there. The Sony RX1 takes certain photos better than any other pocketable camera in the world.
不管你信不信，还真有人会买。索尼RX1拍的一些照片，比世界上其他任何一款可以放在口袋里的相机都要好。
Low-light shots, for example. The camera has a small built-in flash, but you’ll rarely use it; incredibly, this camera picks up more light than your eyes do, thanks to both its huge sensor and its f/2.0 Zeiss lens.
例如，在微弱光线下的照相效果。该相机有一个内置的闪光灯，但是你很少会用到它；令人难以置信的是，该相机比人眼能感受到更多光，因为它有巨大的感光器及卡尔·蔡司F/2.0镜头。
The RX1 captures perfectly balanced, nicely illuminated shots in dimly lighted restaurants, candlelight, street corners at night, making them all look much brighter than they actually are. Full-frame cameras like a Canon 5D can do that, too — but to bring one of those along, you’d need a carrying case, not a pocket.
在光线昏暗的餐馆里，烛光下，夜晚的街角，RX1拍的照片非常平衡完美，亮度美丽充足。照片上的物体都比实际物体看上去更亮一些。佳能5D等全画幅相机也能做到这一点。但那些相机只能放在相机包里，不能放进衣袋。
The RX1 also takes lovely portraits. One reason is that this camera creates beautiful blurry backgrounds. That soft-focus background effect is a hallmark of professional photography — and of big-aperture, big-sensor cameras. Until now, few pocket cameras could defocus the background at all.
RX1也能拍摄精美的肖像。原因之一是，该相机能做出美丽的模糊背景效果。柔焦背景效果是专业摄影及大光圈大感光器相机的标志。此前很少看到小巧型相机能使背景散焦。
Video is gorgeous, too: 1080p high definition with stereo sound. There’s a miniplug input for an external microphone, too.
摄像效果也同样优良：1080p的高分辨率，立体声音频。内置插孔可连接外接麦克风。
Clearly, this camera is intended for professionals or nearly pros. It’s built like a tank, all metal, with markings etched and not just painted on. Its shutter is completely silent. Its hotshoe accommodates various expensive accessories, including optical or electronic viewfinders.
显然，该相机专为专业人士或准专业人士打造。外表像坦克，金属外壳，标记都蚀刻在机体上，而非印上去。快门完全没有声音。其热靴可以容纳各种昂贵的配件，包括光学或电子取景器。
It offers every kind of manual control, and you can customize it to the hilt; its scene mode dial offers three positions for storing your own memorized settings. There’s an aperture adjustment ring right on the lens, and there’s a dedicated exposure knob on the top.
该相机有各种手动控制功能，可进行很高水平的定制。其场景模式转盘有三个位置，让使用者储存自己的设置。镜头上有一个光圈调整环，相机顶部有一个曝光旋钮。
Unfortunately, there are also some aspects that will drive you crazy. Focusing can be slow — in low light, really slow; as a result, this isn’t a great camera for sports, pets or children. There’s no stabilization for still photos, either.
不幸的是，还有其他一些因素会让你发疯。对焦可能会很慢，在微弱光线下，真的很慢；所以，这不是一台拍摄运动场面、宠物及儿童的好相机。而且，拍静止照片的时候，没有图像稳定功能。
It’s fantastic that Sony decided to produce this expensive, astonishing, limited, one-of-a-kind machine. You may scoff at its nonzooming lens, its slowish focusing and its nosebleed price, and that’s fine; in many ways, the RX1 is a proof of concept, a bold experiment, an effort to achieve what’s always been thought unattainable.
索尼决定生产这种昂贵的、惊人的、有局限性的、独一无二的相机，真是一件大好事。你可能会嘲笑其不变焦镜头、缓慢对焦以及令人吐血的价格，但是没关系；在很多方面，RX1证明了一种概念，是一个大胆的试验，是力争做成人们一直认为不可能的事情的一种努力。