The actress Sophia Loren is a symbol of Italy to generations of moviegoers. Born in Rome on Sept. 20, 1934, as Sofia Villani Scicolone, she was raised outside Naples and suffered intense deprivation during World War II. As Italy entered the postwar “Dolce Vita” era, she became a star of Cinecittá, Rome’s film industry center. She won an Oscar in 1962 for her performance in “La Ciociara,” or “Two Women,” about wartime Italy. Her memoir, “Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow: My Life,” was published late last year by Atria Books. She is the mother of Carlo Jr. and Edoardo, with her husband, the producer Carlo Ponti, who died in 2007. Following are edited excerpts from a conversation with Ms. Loren.
对于好几代的电影观众来说，女演员索菲娅·罗兰(Sophia Loren)是意大利的象征。她1934年9月20日出生在罗马，原名索菲娅·维拉尼·希科洛内(Sofia Villani Scicolone)。她在那不勒斯郊外长大，“二战”期间家里极度贫困。随着意大利进入战后“甜蜜生活”(Dolce Vita)期，她成为罗马电影城(Cinecittá，罗马的电影业中心)的大明星。1962年，她凭借在《烽火母女泪》(意大利语片名La Ciociara，英文片名Two Women)中的表演获得奥斯卡奖，该片讲述的是“二战”时期的意大利。去年年底，她的回忆录《昨天、今天、明天：我的人生》(Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow: My Life)由阿特里亚出版社(Atria Books)出版。她有两个孩子：小卡洛(Carlo Jr.)和爱德华多(Edoardo)。她丈夫是制片人卡洛·蓬蒂(Carlo Ponti)，2007年去世。下面是与罗兰女士的对谈摘录，内容经过编辑。
Q. You have just come out with your memoir, “Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow.” Why did you want to write this now?
问：你刚出版了回忆录《昨天、今天、明天》。为什么现在想起写回忆录？
A. Years go by, you’re 40, 50, and when you reach the beautiful age of 80, you are taken by a great wanting to start all over again, to be reborn with your souvenirs, and in a way, you fall in love with your future. I had so much to say because many things stuck in my mind and the kind of life I led. So, I started to write little things and put it in a box. It grew and when the book was finished, finally, I was very proud of it and I said, “Sophia, you did it again.” It’s a beautiful, beautiful, wonderful story, full of many things, many memories, good, bad, because life sometimes is very hard. Very violent, especially when I was born and during the war. But, of course, the end is a very happy ending.
答：时光飞逝，你40岁、50岁，等你到80岁这个美好年纪时，你特别渴望一切从头再来，希望在追忆中重获新生。从某种程度上讲，你爱上了你的未来。我很多话想说，因为很多事情，还有我曾经的生活，铭刻在我脑海里。所以我开始写一些片段，把它们放进一个盒子里。后来越积越多，书最终完成时，我感到非常自豪，我对自己说，“索菲娅，你又做到了。”这是一个非常美丽、非常精彩的故事，里面提到很多事情和回忆——美好的和不好的都有，因为生活有时非常艰难。这个故事也很激烈，特别是我出生时和战争期间。不过，当然，结局是美好的。
Where have you been traveling?
问：你去过哪些地方旅行？
I go to see my children in Los Angeles. I’ve been to many festivals to show some films that I made. I’ve been in Russia, I’ve been in Asia. I’ve been everywhere. But, if you ask me, “What did you see?” I haven’t seen anything because I’ve seen hotels. I’ve seen a lot of people. I’ve seen my films, but I am eager very much to choose, let’s say two weeks, three weeks with my children to go a little bit around and to see like a tourist.
答：我经常去洛杉矶看望我的孩子们。我参加过很多电影节，去展示我拍摄的一些电影。我去过俄罗斯，也去过亚洲。我什么地方都去过。但是，如果你问我，“你看到了什么？”我什么也没看到，因为我就看到了酒店。我见到了很多人，看到了我的电影，但是我非常渴望能有两三周时间和孩子们一起四处转转，像游客那样游览。
What’s a beauty secret when traveling?
问：旅行的美妙之处是什么？
To really rest — then, even your brain rests.
答：能够真正休息一下，甚至连脑子都能休息。
How does it feel to represent your homeland on film?
问：在电影中代表自己的祖国，你感觉如何？
I made success in my life with the stories that are Italian stories. If you are Neapolitan like I am, my success is “The Gold of Naples,” “Marriage Italian Style,” “Two Women,” “A Special Day.” I am very proud of it that I am Neapolitan. And, these characters that I’ve been playing really were just the image that I wanted to portray not only in Italy but all over the world.
答：我一生所取得的成就都源于讲述意大利的故事。我是那不勒斯人，我的成功作品包括《那不勒斯的黄金》(The Gold of Naples)、《意大利式结婚》(Marriage Italian Style)、《烽火母女泪》和《特殊的一天》(A Special Day)。我为自己是那不勒斯人而感到非常骄傲。我饰演的这些人物真的是我想描绘的人物，不只是在意大利，而且是想面向全世界。
Could you talk about the significance of “La Ciociara,” known in English as “Two Women”?
问：你能谈谈《烽火母女泪》的重要意义吗？
I knew that that was going to be the film for me as an actress. And as a wonderful human being because le Ciociare were among the greatest women during that time of the war. [“La Ciociara” tells the story of a mother and daughter from the Ciociaria region near Naples, seeking refuge during World War II.] I really put my soul in it and all the scenes that were done at the end of the film were the most dramatic. And, then I had the Oscar for it. And then, I had, years later, the Oscar for my career. Well, I can be happy.
答：我知道作为女演员，人们会把我和这部电影联系在一起。人们也会记住片中那个了不起的女人，她是战时最伟大的女性之一[该片讲述的是那不勒斯附近乔恰里亚地区的一对母女在“二战”期间避难的故事]。在这部影片中，我真的投入灵魂去表演，片末的所有场景是最激动人心的。后来我凭借该片获得了奥斯卡奖。多年后，我又获得了奥斯卡终身成就奖。呃，还有什么不知足的。
You now live in Switzerland. What do you like most about it?
问：现在你住在瑞士。你最喜欢它哪一点？
It’s calm. When you live in a big city like Rome or like New York, there’s so many things going on and the streets and the cars. Here, it’s a really very peaceful place. And then, of course, it’s the center of Europe.
答：它很平静。如果你住在罗马或纽约这样的大城市，会很喧闹，大街、汽车什么的。这里真的非常平和。当然，这里也位于欧洲的中心。
Did you actually say the quote frequently attributed to you, “Everything you see I owe to spaghetti”?
问：“我把一切归功于意大利面”——人们经常引用你的这句话。你真的说过这句话吗？
Non è vero! It’s not true! It’s such a silly thing. I owe it to spaghetti, no, no. Completely made up.
答：没说过！这太傻了。我归功于意大利面？不，不。完全是编造出来的。