Sofia Vergara is among the most recognizable women in Hollywood — an Emmy-nominated actress and star of the hit ABC television show “Modern Family.” But one of the roles she is lesser known for is that of cancer survivor.
索菲娅·维加拉(Sofia Vergara)是好莱坞最知名的女性之一——她曾获艾美奖(Emmy)提名，也是ABC电视台热播剧集《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)的主演。但她还扮演着一个较少为人所知的角色，那就是癌症幸存者。
Ms. Vergara had her thyroid removed and underwent radioactive iodine therapy at the age of 28 after discovering she had thyroid cancer. Now 40, she takes medication daily to control the symptoms of hypothyroidism.
维加拉女士在28岁时发现患甲状腺癌，她切除了甲状腺，随后接受了放射性腆治疗。现在40岁的她每天需要服药来控制甲状腺功能减退的症状。
She recently became the face of a new campaign, Follow the Script, which promotes screening for thyroid disease and encourages those who have it to play an active role in their treatment. About 20 million Americans have some form of thyroid disease – most of them women – though an estimated 60 percent are unaware they have it.
她最近成为一项新运动Follow the Script的代言人，这项运动在呐喊助威，提倡筛查甲状疾病，并鼓励病人在自己的治疗中发挥主动性。约有2000万美国人患有某种类型的甲状腺病——其中大部分是女性——不过预计其中有60%的人并没意识到自己患有该病。
Recently, we caught up with Ms. Vergara to ask her about her approach to diet and exercise.
最近我们瞅准机会捉到了维加拉女士，想要让她谈谈对饮食与健身的看法。
Q. How did cancer affect your outlook on health and fitness?
问：癌症是如何影响了你对健康与健身的看法？
A. When it first happened, it was very scary. I went into shock. I was 28 and I wasn’t smoking, I wasn’t doing many things that are unhealthy. You start thinking, “What are the things that give you cancer?” And you get really paranoid of everything. I thought from now on I’m going to eat everything organic, everything healthy, everything different. I was doing shots of spinach. It was insane. But then after the first three months you realize that you can’t live your life like this because it’s exhausting.
答：刚确诊那会儿我害怕极了。整个人都震惊了。我才28岁，不抽烟，也没有做多少不健康的事情。你会忍不住想：“是什么害你得了癌症呢？”于是你真得会对所有东西都产生妄想。我当时寻思着，从今天起，但凡任何我吃进肚子里的东西都一定要是有机的、健康的、跟以前不一样的。我吃了好多菠菜，简直跟疯了似的。但过了三个月你就会意识到，你不可能一辈子这样生活，这也太累了。
Q. Some studies suggest that physical activity improves quality of life for people who have had the disease. Do you work out, and if so how often?
问：有些研究表明，参加锻炼会提升癌症幸存者的生活质量。你健身吗，多久锻炼一次？
A. Now that I’m older, I work out more. I try to do something at least three times a week if I’m not working.
答：随着年纪渐长，我锻炼的次数也增加了。在我不需要工作时，我会尽量每周至少锻炼三次。
Q. What’s your typical workout routine?
问：你每次锻炼时通常做哪些运动？
A. I have a trainer, and I train with him when I’m in L.A. But I don’t really like to get obsessed with it. I do it when I can. Sometimes I work out with my trainer, or I do spinning or Pilates.
答：我有个训练师，在洛杉矶时就跟他一起训练。但我真得对锻炼不那么着迷。只是尽量去做。有时跟着训练师练习，有时练动感单车或普拉提。
Q. Do you have trouble fitting exercise into your life because of your schedule?
问：作为一个大忙人，是不是挺难抽空锻炼的？
A. Yes, I do. Especially for someone like me who doesn’t enjoy exercise. For me it’s punishment. It’s not like, “Oh, let me relax and go to the gym.” It’s not my “me time” or my fun time. No. It’s my torture time. So of course I try to avoid it or make excuses every time. But I do try to do it at least three times a week if I’m not shooting. I wish I loved it. Believe me, I wish.
答：是，确实是这样。对像我这样不喜欢锻炼的人来说就尤其如此了。对我来说健身是一种惩罚。我并不会觉得，“噢，我要放松一下，去健健身。”健身并不是“属于我的时光”或我寻开心的时光。一点都不是。那是我自虐的时光。所以我每次都会偷懒或找借口不去锻炼。但我仍然坚持在不拍戏的时候，每周至少练三次。我真希望自己喜欢健身。相信我，我真这么希望的。
Q. Do you follow a special diet?
问：你会按照一个特定的食谱吃饭吗？
A. No. I’m very lucky, I love healthy eating. I love fish, I love eating vegetables, and I love salads. But I also love desserts. So I try to eat everything but in moderation.
答：不，我很幸运，生来就喜欢吃健康的食物。我喜欢吃鱼、蔬菜，也喜欢吃沙拉。但我同时还喜欢吃甜食。所以我是尽量什么都吃，但什么都不过量。
My hobby is to go out to dinner to different places. I try to eat healthy during the day so that when I go to dinner I can kind of eat whatever I want. I don’t go too crazy during the week. But on the weekends, I completely order whatever I want. I especially love sushi and I love Middle Eastern food. 
我酷爱去不同的地方享用晚餐。我会尽量在白天吃得健康点，这样晚上出去吃时，就能随心所欲吃东西。平日里我吃东西蛮适度的，但到了周末，我就要大吃一通。我特别喜欢吃寿司和中东食物。
Q. Has your approach to exercise changed over time, and if so, in what ways?
问：你对于健身的看法有没有随时间而改变？如果是这样的，那么在哪些方面改变了？
A. Well, now I have accepted that it’s good for me, for my health and for anti-aging. When I was in Colombia, there wasn’t a culture of working out for women. I don’t remember any woman in my family ever going to the gym. So I started late when I moved to the United States, and I think it does make a difference. You see it in women my age who work out and in women who don’t work out. You see the difference physically.
答：嗯，现在我认识到健身对我有好处，对身体好，对延缓衰老也好。当年我在哥伦比亚时，那里完全没有女性健身的氛围。我们这一大家子人里，就没有一个女人去过健身房。所以我是到移居美国之后才开始锻炼的，起步很晚，而且我觉得健身确实会给人带来改变。你会发现，到了我这个年纪，健身和不健身的女人是会不一样的。从外表上一眼就看得出来。
Q. Is there anything you’d like to change or improve about your fitness routine?
问：对于你的健身计划，你觉得有没有需要改变或改进的地方？
A. I wish I could be more passionate about it, because when I don’t have a trainer, I sabotage myself. I just don’t know how to push myself. I need somebody to push me to be able to do it. I wish I had that more.
答：我希望我能对健身更热衷一些，因为只要身边没有训练师，我就会由着性子乱来。我不知道怎样督促自己运动。我需要有人来推动我去健身。我希望我能更喜欢运动。
Q. Does your trainer give you specific things to do, or is he just there for motivation?
问：你的训练师会让你做某些特定的动作，还是说他的用处只是给你打气？
A. He has to force me and put me inside the machines. But I try to manipulate the situation, or I’ll try to answer my phone and tell him it’s an emergency.
答：他得强迫我，把我塞进运动器械里。但我还想反转局势，比方说接个电话，告诉他事出紧急什么的。
Q. What’s your advice for people trying to build more regular exercise into their life?
问：对于希望能更频繁健身的人，你有什么忠告？
A. I think it’s important to accept that it’s part of modern life – that it’s been proven that it helps you with everything. It’s going to improve the way you look, the way you feel, the way you age, everything. If there are women out there like me who don’t love it, you have to make a conscious decision to do it if you want to age well and live longer.
答：我认为很重要的一点，是需要接受健身已经成为现代生活的一部分——事实证明它对你有益。它能改善你的外表，你的自我感觉，你衰老的程度，对你的一切都有帮助。如果有哪位女性跟我一样不喜欢运动，但又希望优雅得老去并且更加长寿，那你就必须有意识地下决心去健身。