Analysts who examine satellite images of North Korea reported on Wednesday that they had spotted some unexpected activity at the country’s nuclear test site: active volleyball games in three separate areas.
研究朝鲜卫星图片的分析人士周三表示，他们在这个国家的核试验基地发现了一些出人意料的活动：三个不同的区域都在举行排球比赛。
The surprising images were taken on Sunday as tensions between the United States and North Korea seemed to spike. The Korean Peninsula pulsed with news that the North was preparing for its sixth atomic detonation and that American warships had been ordered into the Sea of Japan as a deterrent, even though the ships turned out to have sailed in the opposite direction.
这些令人意外的照片拍摄于周日，当时美国和朝鲜的紧张关系似乎一触即发。整个朝鲜半岛都随着朝鲜在为第六次核试验做准备、美国军舰派驻日本海进行威慑的消息陷入紧张的气氛，尽管这些军舰最终被证明是驶往了相反的方向。
The volleyball games, played in the middle of that international crisis, were probably intended to send a message, analysts said, as the North Koreans are aware that the nuclear test site is under intense scrutiny. But what meaning the North wanted the games to convey is unclear.
分析人士称，在这场国际危机之中打排球，或许是为了释放出一种信息，因为朝鲜知道这座核试验基地正在受到密切的监视。但目前尚不清楚朝鲜此举意旨何在。
“It suggests that the facility might be going into a standby mode,” Joseph Bermudez told reporters on a conference call organized by 38 North, a research institute at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. “It also suggests that these volleyball games are being conducted with the North Koreans knowing that we’ll be looking and reporting on it.”
“它表明那个基地可能进入了待命状态，”约瑟夫·贝穆德斯(Joseph Bermudez)在约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际问题研究学院(Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies)的研究机构38 North组织的一场会议上对记者讲道。“它还表明，朝鲜是在知道我们会看到和报道这些排球比赛的情况下举行这些活动的。”
Mr. Bermudez, a veteran North Korean analyst, emphasized the ambiguity of North Korean intentions. “They’re either sending us a message that they’ve put the facility on standby, or they’re trying to deceive us,” he said. “We really don’t know.”
资深的朝鲜问题分析师贝穆德斯强调，朝鲜的意图并不明确。“他们要么是在告诉我们基地进入了待命状态，要么是试图在欺骗我们，”他说。“我们真的不清楚。”
At a military parade on Saturday, Pyongyang displayed many missiles, and on Sunday, it fired one that exploded seconds after liftoff, raising suspicions that an American program to sabotage the test flights had struck once again.
在上周六举行的阅兵式上，平壤展示了许多枚导弹。周日，它发射了一枚导弹，但升空几秒后便爆炸，令人怀疑是美国破坏朝鲜导弹发射试验的项目又一次取得了成功。
But at the Punggye-ri nuclear test site, in the mountainous wilds of the North, teams of players that Sunday were engaged in a series of volleyball games, according to the image analysts. The game locations, Mr. Bermudez said, were the main administrative area, the guard barracks and the support area of the command center.
然而据卫星图片分析人士透露，在位于朝鲜群山中的丰溪里(Punggye-ri)核试验基地，一组组球员在那个周日进行了一系列排球活动。贝穆德斯表示，比赛的场地位于主行政区、指挥中心的卫兵营房和支援区。
“What we’ve seen,” he told reporters, “is somewhat unusual.”
“我们看到的东西，”他对记者讲道，“有些不同寻常。”
The resolution, or sharpness, of the satellite images was such that the players looked quite small, with no discernible features.
这些卫星图像分辨率不够高，图片中的球员显得非常小，看不清相貌特征。
Mr. Bermudez spoke with reporters on Tuesday, and the group on Wednesday put out a report on the test-site developments. The authors, along with Mr. Bermudez, were Jack Liu and Frank Pabian, a scientist at the Los Alamos weapons lab in New Mexico, the birthplace of the atomic bomb.
贝穆德斯在周二与记者们进行了交谈，38 North周三发布了一份有关该试验基地发展情况的报告。报告的作者除了贝穆德斯，还有杰克·刘(Jack Liu)和弗兰克·帕比安(Frank Pabian)，后者是位于原子弹诞生地新墨西哥州洛斯阿拉莫斯武器实验室的一名科学家。
The report said the volleyball teams appeared to be “the normal six players on each side.” An additional image in the report showed what the analysts identified as a “possible volleyball net” near the command area. But no players were visible.
报告称，这些排球队似乎“是正常的每边六人”。报告中有另一张照片显示了分析师认为“有可能是球网”的东西，就在靠近指挥中心的地方。但图片中没有打球的人。
Volleyball is a popular sport in North Korea, and satellite imagery often identifies games in progress. Previous images of the Punggye-ri nuclear test site have revealed personnel playing volleyball, but never before in three concurrent games.
排球在朝鲜是一项颇受欢迎的运动，卫星图像经常能捕捉到正在进行的排球比赛。丰溪里核试验基地之前的图片也出现过工作人员打排球的景象，但从来没有三场同时进行的情况。
Mr. Bermudez is an adviser to AllSource Analysis, a Colorado company that analyzes satellite images and other information for government and commercial clients.
贝穆德斯是AllSource Analysis的一名顾问，那是科罗拉多一家为政府和商业机构客户分析卫星图片及其他信息的公司。
The 38 North report said that the rugged test site, despite the games, appeared able to conduct a sixth nuclear test at any time upon receiving the order.
38 North的报告称，尽管有排球活动正在进行，但只要一接到命令，这个崎岖不平的试验基地似乎就能随时进行第六次核试验。