SINGAPORE — There has been much media attention focused on the changing habits of luxury-watch buyers in China, but market analysts say that any shift has more to do with a natural evolution of consumer habits and taste than with Beijing’s crackdown on corruption and the giving of lavish gifts to government officials.
新加坡——媒体近来对中国奢侈品腕表买家购买习惯的转变给予了很多关注。市场分析人士称，此变化的出现更多是因为消费习惯与鉴赏品味的自然改变，而不是北京打击腐败、杜绝送奢侈礼品的结果。
“The slowdown in luxury sales has been more due to consumers re-prioritizing what they want to buy,” said Shaun Rein, managing director of China Market Research Group in Shanghai. “For example, the pollution problems in 2013 made many consumers tell us, who cares if they can buy a Louis Vuitton bag if the water and air pollution is also going to kill them.”
“奢侈品销售的下滑更大程度上是因为消费者购买意愿的优先次序发生了改变，”中国市场研究集团(China Market Research Group)董事总经理雷小山(Shaun Rein)说。“举例来说，2013年的环境污染让很多消费者觉得，水和空气污染可能致命的情况下，能不能买路易威登(Louis Vuitton)的包是无关紧要的。”
Consumers “shifted from buying bling to travelling abroad to Bali or Thailand,” he added.
他补充道，“消费者从前喜欢购买华而不实的奢侈品，而现在则更愿意去国外，像巴厘岛和泰国这样的地方旅游。” 
Yuval Atsmon, a principal in the Shanghai office of McKinsey & Co., said growing consumer sophistication and an increasingly wide selection of available goods had resulted in a diversification of consumer spending.
麦肯锡(McKinsey & Co.)上海分公司主管安宏宇(Yuval Atsmon)表示，消费者日益成熟，而且市面上的商品种类繁多，导致了消费选择的多样化。
“Leading brands are finding it particularly hard to grow at the same rates as before — if at all,” he said. “There are not so many new cities they can still go to, leaving only small markets.”
“各大品牌意识到，要保持之前一样的增长速度格外困难，甚至根本没有可能，”他说。“各大品牌尚未打入的新城市所剩无几，以至于他们现在只能拓展规模较小的市场。”
“Some top customers now want to have something different and are turning to different brands,” Mr. Atsmon added, “while others are also looking for products that are less conspicuous.”
“现在购买力最强的一些消费者想要尝试别的东西，于是开始购买不同品牌的商品，而另一部分消费者则希望购买不那么招摇的商品，”安宏宇补充说。
The crackdown on corruption begun in late 2012 had an immediate psychological impact on ostentatious spending. But quantifying the real impact on the luxury market is difficult, and analysts disagree over how profound it has been, particularly for the watch industry.
从2012年底开始的打击腐败的运动，对奢侈消费产生了直接的心理影响。但此举对于奢侈品行业影响的大小难以量化，分析人士也并不赞同此举会对手表领域有很大的冲击。
Jon Cox, head of European consumer equities at Kepler Cheuvreux, said he estimated that gift-giving accounted for a third of the mainland China market for watches retailing above $6,000.
开普勒盛富集团(Kepler Cheuvreux)欧洲消费股部门的负责人乔恩·考克斯(Jon Cox)称，他估计，在中国大陆零售价高于6000美元（约合3.7万元人民币）的腕表销售中，送礼消费占到三分之一。
“On my assumptions, I estimate that over 1 billion Swiss francs in retail revenue has been lost over the last 12 months as a result of the gifting clampdown,” he said. “Given the clampdown continues in the state sector, I presume that part of the market has disappeared and won’t come back any time soon.”
“我的猜想是，因为严禁送礼，估计在过去12个月损失了逾10亿瑞士法郎（约合70亿元人民币）的销售额，”他说。“如果政府持续严打的话，我想这就意味着这一部分的市场已经失去，并且在短期内难以回归。
“That said, China is creating wealth rapidly,” Mr. Cox added, “so it’s fair to assume next year you will see growth in the watch market pick up again.”
“即便如此，中国的富人还是越来越多，”考克斯继续说。“所以我们有理由相信，表类市场明年会有所回升。”
But Mr. Rein, of China Market Research Group, had a different assessment. Gift-giving for most luxury brands only accounted for about 20 percent of sales, he said, and “only 50 percent of that — so 10 percent over all — was due to corrupt gifting.”
但是，中国市场研究集团的雷小山对此持有不同的观点。他表示，对于奢侈品牌来说，送礼的消费仅占销售额的20%左右，而“在这中间只有一半，即总销售额的10%属于腐败送礼”。
“So any slowdown is part of a longer-term trend by consumers becoming more sophisticated and looking for more niche brands,” he suggested.
“如此说来，现在的销售下滑遵循的是消费者日趋成熟、倾向于购买更小众品牌的大趋势。”
Mr. Rein was quick to point out that while the crackdown has been “deeper and longer than many analysts expected,” it has also hit specific brands and categories more than the sector as a whole.
雷小山很快指出，尽管这次反腐比“许多分析人士预估的都要更加彻底和旷日持久”，但这件事对个别品牌和类别的商品的冲击，要大于整个行业。
“For instance, the crackdown has impacted luxury watches selling between $5,000 and $15,000 the most, because watches given for corrupt purposes fell in that range,” he said. “Brands that emphasize their logo — like Louis Vuitton and Gucci — have also been hit because they have too high a profile.”
“举个例子，反腐对售价5000到15000美金的奢侈表的影响最大，因为之前用来送礼的手表价格就在这个范围内，”他说。“一些突出商标的品牌也因为过于高调受到了冲击，比如路易威登和古驰(Gucci)。”
“Coach and Tiffany’s are doing very well because they are lower profile,” Mr. Rein said. “Similarly, watch brands like Longines and Tissot are also doing well because they are premium enough for status, but still cheap enough that if you wear one you will not become a target of investigation and public ire.”
“寇驰(Coach)和蒂芙尼(Tiffany)的表现就很好，因为它们相对低调，”雷小山说。“同样的，浪琴(Longines)和天梭(Tissot)这样的表类品牌也生意不错，因为虽然它们足以彰显地位，但价格并没有高到会成为调查目标并引起公愤的地步。”
At the top end of the market, he added, “watches above the $15,000 range are holding up pretty well because most of those purchases are self-purchases and the wealthy are getting wealthier right now.”
在最高端的表类市场，他继续说道，“15000美元以上的手表保持了良好的销售势头，因为大多数这一类的购买都是为了自用，而有钱人正在变得更富有。”
According to the 2014 China Luxury Forecast, released by the public relations firm Ruder Finn and the market research firm Ipsos, increased consumer sophistication is drawing Chinese buyers to more subtle status indicators rather than to mass-luxury, logo-branded products. The report also identified a growing preference by the Chinese to purchase watches in Europe rather than in China, hoping to benefit from better professional sales services and product knowledge.
根据罗德公关(Ruder Finn)和市场调研公司益普索(Ipsos)发布的《2014中国奢华品报告》(2014 China Luxury Forcast)， 中国消费者的成熟度日益提高，让众所周知、商标明显的奢侈品在他们眼中的吸引力下降，转而偏向于细微处彰显的奢华。报告还指出，中国人越来越喜欢在欧洲买表， 以此得到更专业周道的购买体验和关于产品的认知。
“Chinese consumers prefer new brands over the overexposed brands with mega-logos, as well as brands that produce less watches, which makes them more exclusive,” said Gregory Pons, editor at Business Montres & Joaillerie, a specialist horology website. He added that there were now good opportunities for fresh, little-known brands in China.
“相对于过度曝光的标有巨大商标的品牌，中国的消费者更喜欢新兴品牌，以及由于产量稀少而更显名贵的牌子，”钟表专业网站BMJ(Business Montres & Joaillerie)的主编格雷戈里·庞斯(Gregory Pons)说。他还认为，现在正是那些知名度不高的新品牌在中国发展的好契机。
Mr. Rein said market segmentation was also at work.
雷小山提到市场细分也在其中发挥了作用。
“Five years ago, people bought either the most expensive watch brand they could afford, like an Omega, or something cheap or even a knock off,” he said. “They tended to wear the same watch every day.”
“五年前，大家要么去买可承担范围内最贵的表，比如欧米茄(Omega)，要么是便宜表，甚至是山寨货，”他说。“人们每天都戴同一块表。”
“Now we see consumers willing to buy Casio G Shock for sports activities, and something more luxurious, like Patek Philippe, for business meetings,” he said. “They now have different watches for different occasions — which means that brands can no longer try to sell to all people for all occasions but must begin to segment their target markets.”
“现在，我们看到消费者愿意买卡西欧(Casio)的G Shock手表在运动的时候戴，同时将类似百达翡丽(Patek Philippe)的更高档的表用于商务会面，”他说。“如今人们在不同的场合会佩戴不同的表——这也就意味着，商家不能仅限于努力打动所有顾客将自家产品用于任何场合，而是必须开始细分目标客户群市场。
“A brand can no longer claim to be the luxury brand for all occasions and all people,” he added. “They have to decide: Are they trying to cater to sporty people, business people, old, or young?”
“各大品牌不能再自称是适用于一切场合和人群的奢侈品，”他接着说。“商家不得不考虑：是去迎合运动一族、商务人士、年轻一族，还是成熟人群。”
Even if Mr. Rein does not believe that consumers will go too far toward the “niche” end of the market in the short term, he still thinks that they are increasingly keen to showcase their individuality. Many potential customers will still want to wear recognizable brands, he said, but “the once-dominant players like Omega, Montblanc, and Louis Vuitton will come under increased pressure from competition and it will be difficult for them to maintain their market share.”
雷小山认为，消费者希望彰显个性的意愿越来越强烈，即使他并不认同他们会在短期内过于青睐小众市场的说法。他表示，很多潜在顾客还是会想穿戴辨识度高的品牌，但“曾经风光的大牌，像是欧米茄(Omega)、万宝龙(Montblac)和路易威登，将面临越来越多的竞争，对于他们来说，想要保持原先的市场份额会很困难。”
“Consumers are willing to trade down to Tissot or Longines, or even lower to a Swatch, or try something comparable to Omega but still a different brand, like Baume and Mercier,” he added.
“消费者现在愿意降低标准去买天梭(Tissot)或者浪琴(Longines)，乃至更便宜的斯沃琪(Swatch)，也愿意尝试像名士(Baume and Mercier)这样的和欧米茄同一档次但品牌有差异的表，”他补充说。
Ultimately, he said, “brands need to fill a niche and an aspiration better.”
他表示，说到底，“品牌需要更好地填补细分市场、激起消费欲。”
“Consumers are not looking for bling anymore,” Mr. Rein said. “They are increasingly looking for lifestyle brands, where they can display their own sense of individualism. Brands need to get better at reaching out to consumers.”
“消费者不再单纯追求浮华，”雷小山说。“他们越来越多地想要独具一格的品牌，能以此展现他们与众不同的个人风格。商家们需要找到打动消费者的更有效的途径。”
According to Mr. Atsmon, of McKinsey, the heightened sensitivity to corruption in China has influenced how luxury brands present themselves.
麦肯锡的安宏宇提到，由于中国对腐败的敏感度提高，奢侈品牌如何定位也受到了影响。
“Luxury brands are certainly thinking carefully about what they put on their advertising messages in China, especially in Beijing,” he said. “Some regulations have also in the last couple of years literally limited the use of certain language. I think brands now see more benefit in events and in word-of-mouth marketing.”
“在中国发展的各大奢侈品牌都在慎重地掂量，广告里给消费者传递什么信息，尤其是在北京，”他说。“前些年的一些规定明文禁止了某些广告用语。我想，现在商家们认为，宣传活动和口口相传是更有效的推广途径。”
“The rising role of online marketing, meanwhile, has shifted some of their advertising to digital media,” he said.
“与此同时，由于网络推广的兴起，广告正在逐步转向数字媒体时代，”他说。
One recently established practice that is showing no sign of going away is the release of limited-edition watches to celebrate the Chinese New Year.
发行春节限量版手表这一近期得以确立的做法，看来还没有退潮的趋势。
Still, brands have become more discreet about these releases, concerned with their images in Europe and the United States and with keeping a lower profile in Asia, said Mr. Pons, the editor.
不过，BMJ的主编庞斯表示，各品牌对这些产品的发布变得更加谨慎，以求在欧美保有品牌固有形象的同时，在亚洲市场保持低姿态。
“Western consumers reproach the brands for having become too active in China,” adapting their models and raising prices to maximize revenue from the Chinese market, he said.
他说，“西方消费者反感商家在中国过于活跃”、修改款式，或是涨价来让中国市场的收益最大化。
“You now have smaller sizes to fit Asian wrists, neo-classical design for dials, Chinese symbols everywhere,’ ’ Mr. Pons noted, “while average prices of models have doubled in the last 10 years because of a Chinese bubble.”
“现在有适应亚洲人手腕的更小号的手表、新古典主义风格的表盘，以及无处不在的中式符号，”庞斯提到，“同时由于中国市场的泡沫，各款表的平均价格在过去的10年内涨了一倍。”
Vacheron Constantin, for example, has released a new addition to its Métiers d’Art series, The Legend of the Chinese Zodiac. Sold only in China, it will be limited to 24 pieces, 12 in bronze-tone and 12 in blue-tone enamel. On the dial, a horse — this is the year of the horse in the Chinese zodiac — engraved at the center is surrounded by a motif of bamboo stalks and leaves. The watch has no hands, showing the hour, minute, date, and day through four small windows.
举例来说，江诗丹顿(Vacheron Constantin)在艺术大师(Métiers d’Art)系列中增添了新品“十二生肖的传说——马年”腕表。这款表只在中国发售，限量24枚，当中12块为古铜色，另外12块则为蓝色珐琅。在表盘中央位置雕刻着一匹骏马，代表今年的生肖，周围饰有一圈竹竿和竹叶图案。这块表并没有指针，只在四个小窗口显示小时、分钟、日期和星期。
Chopard is offering a L.U.C XP 2014 Year of the Horse special edition, with a dial that is hand-painted in Japanese Urushi lacquering and Maki-e — a technique in which a lacquered coating is sprinkled with metal powder. The watch’s dial is decorated with a prancing horse surrounded by lotus flowers.
萧邦(Chopard)推出了2014年马年特别版LUC XP腕表，其表盘运用了日本手工技艺，结合了漆绘与将金银粉末洒在漆表层的莳绘。在表盘中心，一匹跃马被莲花环绕着。
Ulysse Nardin is introducing the Classico Horse, which will be officially unveiled at Baselworld in March. A galloping horse is featured using the intricate enameling technique known as champlevé, in which cells are carved with a chisel directly on the dial and filled with enamel. It will be offered in a limited edition of 88 pieces — an auspicious number in Chinese tradition.
今年3月，雅典表(Ulysse Nardin)将正式在巴塞尔国际珠宝钟表展(Baselworld)上发布鎏金骐骥腕表(Classico Horse)。这款表采用了复杂精细的内填珐琅工艺，使用凿子在表盘上直接雕刻然后填上珐琅彩，一匹飞驰的骏马由此得以展现。这款表限量88枚，取自中国传统吉利数字。
At the lower end of the market, Swatch has released a Year of the Horse watch inspired by traditional Chinese ink and calligraphy, using bold strokes to portray the dynamism of a galloping horse, while the hands of the watch are in red, considered an auspicious color.
在低端市场上，斯沃琪推出了灵感来源于中国水墨画与书法的马年特别版腕表。这款表用粗旷的线条来表现骏马奔腾的动态，表针则设计为寓意吉祥的红色。