As most print news outlets scramble to find greater profits in a punishing media market by adding more online video content, they are trying to figure out exactly what kind of video content they want to provide. Do they produce short, televisionlike broadcasts? Clips from the latest news events? Or do they try something more ambitious?
大多数纸质新闻媒体竞相通过增加更多在线视频内容，以在艰难的媒体市场寻求更大的利益。他们努力弄清自己想要提供哪种视频内容——是制作像电视那样的短节目呢？还是做最近新闻事件的片段剪辑？还是尝试制作更宏大的影片？
Time has decided to venture into documentary films and recently started a new unit called Red Border Films, named after the magazine’s red border. The division will produce one 10-minute film a month and two longer, more ambitious projects each year. While some of these projects will tie in to articles in the magazine, other videos will stand alone.
《时代》(Time)周刊决定尝试拍摄纪录片，最近开设了一个新部门，名叫红框电影(Red Border Films)，是以该杂志封面的红框命名的。这个部门每个月将制作一个10分钟长的电影，每年制作两个更长、更宏大的电影。有些电影将与杂志中的文章相结合，另外一些则是单独出品。
Kira Pollack, Time’s director of photography, said Time editors started thinking about creating a unit after the success of a project tied to the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. That project, which featured print interviews with 40 people affected by the attacks, including George W. Bush and Rudolph W. Giuliani, appeared on the Time Web site and resulted in an hourlong special on HBO and CNN. Time also published a special magazine issue with some of the interviews.
《时代》周刊的摄影总监基拉·波拉克(Kira Pollack)说，该杂志的编辑们在9·11事件十周年时拍摄的一部影片成功之后，开始考虑设立这个部门。那部影片主要是对受到9·11事件影响的40个人的采访，包括乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和鲁道夫·W·朱利亚尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)。影片被放在了《时代》的网站上，后来HBO和CNN以1小时长的特别节目来播放此片。《时代》还出版了一份特刊，收录了其中一些采访。
“That was a really successful project where it was about journalism and it was about world histories,” Ms. Pollack said.
“那部影片非常成功，它不仅是关于新闻工作的，也是关于世界历史的，”波拉克说。
Ms. Pollack said Time editors also noticed that many of the photographers they worked with were expanding into video journalism, giving them a familiar pool of expert video journalists to work with on the new projects.
波拉克说，《时代》的编辑们还注意到，很多与自己合作的摄影师扩展到了视频新闻领域，这让他们在做新项目时可以跟熟悉的专业视频记者合作。
Time plans to release its first documentary on Wednesday, tied to the 50th anniversary of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I have a dream” speech, which is later this month, Aug. 28. Other topics include the film “Ashes to Ashes” on the cremation industry, which was broadcast as a test project in conjunction with an article that ran in the magazine’s June 13, 2013, issue.
《时代》计划周三发布它的第一部纪录片，该片与8月28日小马丁·路德·金牧师、博士发表《我有一个梦想》演讲50周年有关。其他影片包括关于火葬业的《灰烬》(Ashes to Ashes)，该片作为一个试验项目，与该杂志2013年6月13日那期上的一篇文章共同发布。
One of the first videos Red Border plans to release is a documentary about a Bobby Henline, an Iraq war veteran and comedian. The video, called “Healing Bobby,” will be paired with a photo essay in the print magazine.
红框计划发布的其中一个视频是一部关于鲍比·亨兰(Bobby Henline)的纪录片，他是伊拉克战争的一位老兵，也是一位喜剧演员。纪录片名叫《康复中的鲍比》(Healing Bobby)，将与纸质杂志上的一篇带有照片的文章配合发布。
Ms. Pollack said that by producing only one 10-minute short each month and focusing on longer projects, the magazine hoped to produce high-quality content. “There’s going to be a lot of time to make those excellent,” Ms. Pollack said about the videos.
波拉克说，每月仅制作一个10分钟长的短片以及把重心放在长篇影片上，是为了制作出高质量的内容。“我们会有充分的时间把它们做得很好，”波拉克说。