For proof of the universality of rock ’n’ roll, look no further than Cambodia in the 1960s and ’70s. Even there, young people picked up electric guitars and studied Mick Jagger’s moves, melding Eastern melody with Western groove in ways that are still strikingly fresh.
想找摇滚乐普世性的证据，看看20世纪六七十年代的柬埔寨就够了，就连在那里，年轻人也会拿起电吉他，学习米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)的动作，把东方的旋律融入西方的律动，至今听来仍然极为新鲜。
Yet in one of the 20th century’s most extreme examples of the effects of politics on popular culture, Cambodia’s pop scene — along with virtually every other manifestation of modern society there — was brutally stamped out with the 1975 arrival of the Khmer Rouge, whose nearly four-year reign led to the deaths of 1.7 million people.
然而，1975年红色高棉政权堪称是20世纪政治影响流行文化最极端的事件，在它的4年统治期间，有170万人丧生，柬埔寨的流行音乐场景也同该国几乎所有现代社会的迹象一样，遭到无情的毁灭。
Since then, pre-Khmer Rouge pop has survived in fragments, but the history behind it has remained frustratingly incomplete. Now, after a decade of research by an American filmmaker, John Pirozzi, that history has been told thoroughly in “Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten: Cambodia’s Lost Rock and Roll,” which opens at Film Forum in Manhattan on April 22.
自那之后，前红色高棉时代的流行乐零星有过一点复苏，但历史仍然支离破碎，令人沮丧。美国电影人约翰·派洛奇(John Pirozzi)对之进行了10年的研究，将那段历史完整地呈现在纪录片《别认为我忘了：柬埔寨失去的摇滚乐》(Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten: Cambodia’s Lost Rock and Roll)当中，它是4月22日开幕的曼哈顿电影论坛上演的首部电影。
Through grainy clips of bell-bottomed rockers and tearful contemporary interviews, the film traces the original music and its unlikely resilience, fitting into a niche of heart-stirring music documentaries like “Searching for Sugar Man” and “20 Feet From Stardom.”
片中有当年穿喇叭裤的摇滚乐手们演出的粗糙剪辑，也有在同一时期进行的感人采访，影片追溯了当年的音乐，以及它不可思议的生命力，很像《寻访小糖人》(Searching for Sugar Man)和《离巨星20英尺》(20 Feet From Stardom)这类动人心弦的音乐纪录片。
“I wanted to show that this music would endure beyond everything it had been put through,” Mr. Pirozzi said. “The music is the one thing that has allowed the Cambodian people to access a time when their life wasn’t about war and genocide.”
“我想展示这种音乐如何经历一切困境仍然存在，”派洛奇说，“这种音乐令柬埔寨人民可以看到战争与屠杀之外的时光。”
The development of Cambodia’s pop mirrored its postwar political situation. After almost a century under French control, the country became independent in 1953, and its music took shape with French, American and Latin influences; Sinn Sisamouth, Cambodia’s most revered star, emerged in this era as a cosmopolitan crooner in the Khmer language.
柬埔寨流行乐的发展反映出这个国家“二战”后的政治状况。被法国统治一个世纪之后，柬埔寨于1953年获得独立，它的音乐在法国、美国与拉丁音乐影响下成型；柬埔寨声望最高的歌星辛西萨木(Sinn Sisamouth)就是在那个时期崛起，以高棉语吟唱都市抒情歌曲。
The 1960s brought a pop golden age, as performers like Sinn Sisamouth and Ros Serey Sothea, the most famous female singer, embraced rock ’n’ roll. Later, with an increased American presence from the Vietnam War — in 1969 the United States began bombing Cambodia, then a neutral country — harder-edged rock and soul flourished. The progress ended in April 1975, when the Khmer Rouge emptied Phnom Penh, the capital, and essentially turned the nation into a vast prison camp.
60年代迎来了流行歌曲的黄金时期，辛西萨木与最著名的女歌手罗塞雷·索西亚(Ros Serey Sothea)等人都开始接受摇滚乐。后来，随着越南战争，美国的影响也开始增大——1969年，美国开始轰炸柬埔寨，当时它是中立国——粗犷的摇滚乐与灵魂乐盛行一时。这一进程在1975年4月告终，红色高棉政权把首府金边屠戮一空，令整个国家几乎沦为一座大监牢。
In “Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten,” that troubled history is the backdrop for a rich musical cast, most of which perished in the Khmer Rouge period. It includes Yol Aularong, a charismatic proto-punk who mocked conformist society, and women like Ros Serey Sothea, the nation’s sweetheart; Pen Ran, her worldly, wisecracking foil; and Pou Vannary, who warbled a bilingual version of Carole King’s “You’ve Got a Friend.”
在《别认为我忘了》当中，这段苦难的历史只是为大批音乐家们充当背景，而这些音乐家们大都在红色高棉时期去世。富于人格魅力的约奥拉容(Yol Aularong)嘲讽墨守成规的社会，堪称朋克歌手的原型；女歌手罗塞雷·索西亚(Ros Serey Sothea)是大众情人，潘兰(Pen Ran)世俗化一点，爱说俏皮话，有点像罗塞雷·索西亚的陪衬；布瓦纳里(Pou Vannary)曾用温柔婉转的声音翻唱过双语版的卡洛尔·金(Carole King)的《你得到了一个朋友》(You’ve Got a Friend)
The music they made remains treasured not only by Cambodians but also by rock connoisseurs around the world, for a spunky inventiveness that now, in retrospect, makes Cambodia seem a sparkling outpost of world pop.
他们的音乐不仅被柬埔寨人所珍爱，同样也为全世界资深摇滚爱好者所欣赏，如今看来，这些歌曲具备勇气十足的创造性，令柬埔寨在世界流行乐坛上熠熠生辉。
One of Mr. Pirozzi’s finds is the band Baksey Cham Krong, which played an innocently romantic brand of surf-rock and is considered Cambodia’s first guitar group. Its origin, in 1959, could be that of any garage band anywhere: A group of teenagers cobbled together instruments, rehearsed in an empty apartment and copied their stage moves from a movie — in their case, “The Young Ones” from 1961, featuring Cliff Richard and the Shadows.
派洛奇还发现了巴克赛占克荣(Baksey Cham Krong)乐队，它演奏天真烂漫的冲浪摇滚，被视为柬埔寨的第一支吉他乐队。这支创始于1959年的乐队和世界各地的车库乐队没有什么两样：几个十几岁的孩子们组了一支乐队，拙劣地弹奏着乐器，在空房间里排练，从电影里学舞台动作——在这里，“巴克赛占克荣”的模仿对象是1961年的《年轻真好》(The Young Ones)，主演是克利夫·理查德(Cliff Richard)和“影子”(Shadows)乐队。
“We are just like everybody else,” Mol Kagnol, 69, the band’s lead guitarist, recalled in a telephone interview from his home in Arizona. “We have electric guitars. We can jump, we can dance, we can be happy. The Khmer Rouge destroyed all of that.”
“我们和别人没什么两样，”现年69岁的乐队主音吉他手蒙卡诺尔(Mol Kagnol)在亚利桑那的家中接受电话采访时说，“我们有电吉他，我们能蹦会跳，我们很快活，然后红色高棉毁灭了一切。”
Mr. Mol Kagnol, who eventually joined the American-backed military in Cambodia, was in the United States for pilot training in 1975 when the country collapsed. At least 20 members of his family died in the conflict, he said. “I feel both lucky and sorry at the same time.”
蒙卡诺尔最终参加了美国支持下的柬埔寨武装力量，1975年，当这个国家覆灭时，他来到美国接受飞行员训练。他家中至少20位亲人在国内冲突中去世，他说，“我感到既幸运又悲伤。”
Baksey Cham Krong, with three original members — including Mr. Mol Kagnol and his brother, Mol Kamach, the singer — will perform in a concert connected to the film at City Winery in Manhattan on April 24. Members of Drakkar, a hard-rock band that released its sole album in 1974, have also been booked but at press time were awaiting visas. A brief tour is also planned.
“巴克赛占克荣”的三位原始成员将于4月24日在曼哈顿的“城市酿酒厂”(City Winery)推出一场内容与电影有关的演出，成员中除了蒙卡诺尔，还有他的兄弟、主唱蒙卡马克(Mol Kamach)。柬埔寨硬摇滚乐队“德拉卡”(Drakkar)曾于1974年推出唯一一张专辑，它也受邀参加演出，但截止发稿时间还在等待签证。这支乐队计划在美国进行一次短暂巡演。
Mr. Pirozzi came to this music by chance. In 2001, he worked on Matt Dillon’s film “City of Ghosts,” which was shot in Cambodia. A friend gave the filmmaker a copy of the album “Cambodian Rocks,” a bootleg compilation from 1996 that has become a collector’s classic — and, with no identifying credits at all, established a lasting aura of mystery around the music.
派洛奇是偶然才接触到这种音乐的。2001年，他在马特·狄龙(Matt Dillon)的影片《魅影危城》(City of Ghosts)剧组工作。该片在柬埔寨拍摄期间，一个朋友送了他一张名叫《柬埔寨摇滚》(Combodian Rocks)的专辑，这是一份1996年发行的私录合集，已经成为收藏家心目中的经典，专辑中没有署任何艺术家的名字，为这种音乐平添一种萦绕不去的神秘氛围。
Fascinated, Mr. Pirozzi began investigating the history, at first with little luck. A breakthrough came when he gained access to films made by King Sihanouk, the country’s arts-loving leader, including a trove of vintage performances that are woven into “Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten.”
派洛奇迷上了这种音乐，开始调查这段历史，一开始有一点运气的成分。他拿到了一些柬埔寨领导人西哈努克国王拍的影片，他特别爱好文艺。《别认为我忘了》当中穿插的一些珍贵的表演历史资料就是从这些影片中剪辑出来的，这堪称派洛奇的突破。
“I was blown away,” Mr. Pirozzi said in his cramped editing studio on Lower Broadway, as groovy Cambodian guitars wafted from a speaker. “Everyone told me I wasn’t going to find anything, and here I was sitting in Phnom Penh watching it.”
“我完全被迷住了，”派洛奇在自己位于下百老汇的狭窄剪辑工作室里接受了采访，工作室的音箱里还播放着美妙的柬埔寨吉他音乐。“所有人都说我肯定什么也找不到，结果我却在金边看到了那些东西。”
To find musicians and other sources, Mr. Pirozzi was helped by Youk Chhang of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, whose work as a genocide researcher gave him an extensive network of contacts.
柬埔寨档案中心的尤张(Youk Chhang)帮助派洛奇寻访乐手和其他消息提供者，他是一位大屠杀研究者，所以有很广泛的人脉。
Among those they found was Sieng Vanthy, a young singer in the 1970s who is seen in clips dressed like Cher and dancing like a wild Grace Slick. In one of the film’s most heartbreaking interviews, Ms. Sieng Vanthy — her face frozen by a stroke — says she survived an encounter with Khmer Rouge soldiers only by telling them she was a banana seller, not a singer. She died in 2009.
他们找到了先文西(Sieng Vanthy)，她是70年代的一位年轻歌手，在当年的影片剪辑里穿得很像雪儿(Cher)，跳起舞来则像是狂野的格蕾丝·斯里克(Grace Slick)。对她的采访是影片中最令人心碎的一幕之一，先文西的面孔已经因中风而僵硬，她说，她告诉狭路相逢的红色高棉战士自己是卖香蕉的，不是歌手，因此才死里逃生。她于2009年逝世。
“The Khmer Rouge understood the value of the artists and their connection to the larger public,” Mr. Pirozzi said. “They’re the voice of the people. You can’t control them, so you eliminate them.”
“红色高棉知道艺术家的价值，也知道他们和大众的联系，”派洛奇说，“他们是人民之声，你不能控制他们，所以只能消灭他们。”
Touch Seang Tana, of Drakkar, has another chilling survival story. In a Skype interview from Cambodia, where he is a scientist, he recalled being summoned by a soldier at a prison camp who had a guitar. “Do you know any imperialist songs?” the soldier asked him. Terrified, he played Santana’s hit “Oye Como Va” and briefly earned that man’s favor before a group of hardened new soldiers arrived.
“德拉卡”的杜相塔纳(Touch Seang Tana)也有惊悚的逃生故事。他现在是科学家，在柬埔寨通过Skype接受了采访，他回忆自己在监狱被一个有吉他的士兵叫过去。“你会唱帝国主义歌曲吗？”那个士兵问他。他战战兢兢地唱起了桑塔纳(Sangtana)的金曲《Oye Como Va》，结果为他短暂地赢得了那个士兵的青睐，后来一群硬心肠的新兵就来了。
“They started to kill people,” Mr. Touch Seang Tana said. “Me, I was almost killed many times. Luckily, I escaped.”
“他们开始杀人，” 杜相塔纳说。“我有好几次险遭毒手，幸运的是，我活下来了。”
The survival of the original music is something of a mystery in itself. Most records were destroyed during the Khmer Rouge period. But many songs were copied to cassette, and those tapes, and later CDs, have circulated widely in Cambodia and immigrant enclaves around the world, often in remixed and sped-up versions.
原创音乐的死里逃生也堪称奇迹。大多数唱片都在红色高棉时期被毁掉了，但许多歌曲都被录制在卡带里，这些卡带和后来的CD在柬埔寨人，乃至世界各地的柬埔寨移民当中大量流传，通常是混录的加速版本。
“There is a whole generation of diaspora-born Cambodians who grew up listening to their parents listening to this music,” said Khatharya Um, an associate professor of Asian-American and Asian diaspora studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
“整整一代柬埔寨移民的子女成长期间都是听着父母聆听这些音乐，”加州大学伯克利分校从事美籍亚裔社区与亚洲移民社区研究的凯瑟琳娜·温(Khatharya Um)副教授说。
Yet while pieces of the history have been collected over the years, no thorough study exists, and even basic documentation has been scarce. Mr. Pirozzi said that for years he had been told about Baksey Cham Krong but had no idea what the band looked or sounded like until he found Mr. Mol Kagnol, whose photographs of the band in action are featured in the film.
尽管多年来已经有人致力于收集这段历史的碎片，但仍然没有完整的研究，就连基本的纪录也很少。派洛奇说，多年来，很多人都对他说起“巴克赛占克荣”的事，但是根本不知道这只乐队长什么样，也没听过他们的歌，直到最后发现了蒙卡格诺，影片中有他收藏的乐队演出照。
Among Western listeners, the music has a different history. “Cambodian Rocks” was one of the first in what has come to be an avalanche of esoteric reissues that now includes, for example, Thai, Iranian, Turkish and Peruvian psychedelic rock. Dengue Fever, a California band whose singer, Chhom Nimol, is Cambodian, has also been paying tribute to pre-Khmer Rouge rock for more than a decade, reaching alternative and world-music fans.
在西方听众当中，这种音乐经历了一段完全不同的历史。《柬埔寨摇滚》原本只在小众中再版重发，后来突然大肆流行，随之而来的还有泰国、伊朗、土耳其与秘鲁的迷幻摇滚。加利福尼亚乐队“登革热”(Dengue Fever)的主唱Chhom Nimol也是柬埔寨人，十几年来，她一直向前红色高棉时期的柬埔寨摇滚致敬，这为她赢得了许多喜爱另类音乐与世界音乐的歌迷。
Dust-to-Digital, an Atlanta record label known for its scholarly approach to gospel and folk, is releasing the soundtrack to “Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten.” Lance Ledbetter, its founder, sees the explosion of this music as representative of the ever-expanding tastes of curious listeners.
“Dust-to-Digital”是一家亚特兰大唱片厂牌，以学术气质的福音和民谣唱片而著称，它发行了《别认为我会忘记》的原声专辑。厂牌创始人兰斯·莱德贝塔(Lance Ledbetter)认为这种音乐的盛行代表了好奇的听众的品位不断扩展。
“So many of the genres we are familiar with have been mined so many times,” Mr. Ledbetter said. “The mines are getting more bare. The search is extending out, and I think that’s a good thing. We’re able to learn about and hear music now that you never even knew existed.”
“很多我们熟悉的类型已经被开采过太多次，”莱德贝塔说。“矿脉已经快被挖完。人们开始扩大寻找范围，我觉得这是件好事。我们可以学习并聆听之前根本就不知道的音乐了。” 
The soundtrack to “Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten” uses 20 original, unremixed recordings, many restored from extremely rare vinyl copies.
《别认为我会忘记》的原声专辑使用了20首未经混音的原始录音，很多都是从极为珍贵的黑胶唱片上复原的。
For Cambodians, of course, the music is no mere curiosity, and Mr. Pirozzi said that at early screenings of “Don’t Think I’ve Forgotten,” he has been confronted by numerous young people who said, tearfully, that they now finally understood their parents’ generation.
当然，对于柬埔寨人来说，这种音乐不仅仅意味着珍稀的古董。派洛奇说，《别认为我会忘记》刚刚开始放映的时候，他遇到很多年轻人，流着眼泪说，他们终于理解了父母这一代人。