PHNOM PENH, Cambodia — A court on Thursday found the two most senior surviving leaders of the Khmer Rouge regime, which brutalized Cambodia during the 1970s, guilty of crimes against humanity and sentenced them to life in prison.
柬埔寨金边——此地一个法庭周四裁定红色高棉政权仍在世的两名最高领导人犯有反人类罪，并判处他们终身监禁，红色高棉政权曾在20世纪70年代残暴统治柬埔寨。
The chief judge, Nil Nonn, said the court found that there had been “a widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population of Cambodia” and that the two former leaders were part of a “joint criminal enterprise” that bore responsibility. They were convicted of murder and extermination, among other crimes.
该法庭的首席法官聂农(Nil Nonn)说，法庭认定发生过“针对柬埔寨平民的广泛且系统的伤害”，两位前领导人是一个“共同犯罪事业”的成员，对罪行负有责任。他们被裁定犯有谋杀罪和灭绝罪，以及一些其他罪行。
More than 1.7 million people died under Khmer Rouge rule between 1975 and 1979.
有170多万人在1975年至1979年的红色高棉统治时期死亡。
The proceedings of the tribunal, a joint effort of the Cambodian government and the United Nations, have been criticized as being extremely belated and for covering only a narrow sliver of the crimes perpetrated by the Khmer Rouge. The judgments against Nuon Chea, 88, and Khieu Samphan, 83, were the first to be handed down against the Khmer Rouge leadership, although a lower-ranking official, who ran a notorious prison for the regime in Phnom Penh, was convicted in 2010. Both senior leaders will file appeals, their lawyers said Thursday.
这个特别法庭是柬埔寨政府和联合国共同设立的，一些人曾批评其诉讼程序非常迟缓，而且只涉及红色高棉所犯罪行的很窄范围。88岁的农谢和83岁的乔森潘被判有罪，这是对红色高棉领导人做出的首次判决，法庭以前曾审理过负责红色高棉在金边的一个臭名昭著监狱的更低级别的官员，他在2010年被判有罪。这两个高级领导人都将提出上诉，他们的律师在周四表示。
The case against the two defendants has been divided into stages. The trial that culminated Thursday has focused largely on the evacuation of urban centers, part of the regime’s disastrous attempt to establish an agrarian utopia. Initial hearings have begun for the second trial, which includes charges of genocide.
对这两个被告的审理分几个阶段。周四做出了最终判决的审理，主要针对的是红色高棉疏散城市人口的措施，那是该政权试图建立一个农业乌托邦的灾难性尝试的一部分。第二阶段的初步听证已经开始，其中包括对种族灭绝罪的指控。
The proceedings are taking place in a courthouse on the outskirts of Phnom Penh. The courthouse is a purpose-built, modern structure designed by United Nations architects that is very far removed from the primitive conditions that the Khmer Rouge leaders sought to enforce.
审判程序在金边郊区的一个法院进行。法院是联合国建筑师为这个目的设计的现代建筑，与红色高棉领导人企图强加于公民的简陋生活条件相去甚远。
Witnesses have given harrowing testimony of being forced out of their homes and into the countryside by Khmer Rouge soldiers, denied medical care and seeing executions and other atrocities. The evacuation of Phnom Penh in April of 1975 left the capital a ghost town and portended the social fragmentation that would follow over the next three years, eight months and 20 days of Khmer Rouge rule. Families were separated, money was abolished and the country’s population was forced into a giant, failed effort of collectivized labor.
出庭的证人在法庭上提供了令人断肠的证词，描述了他们如何被红色高棉士兵强迫离开自己的家，下放农村，有病不能就医，看到人被处决和其他暴行等等。1975年4月的疏散金边，让首都变成一座空城，并预示了随之而来的红色高棉统治下的社会分裂，红色高棉总共统治柬埔寨达3年8个月20天。其间，家庭被拆散，钱也废除了，柬埔寨人被迫从事集体化劳动，那是一次巨大的失败尝试。
“The heart of the Khmer Rouge crimes was the complete disregard of human costs of their revolution,” said David Chandler, a former American diplomat who served in Cambodia and is a leading historian on the Khmer Rouge atrocities. “Their vision was completely flawed and unhitched to reality.”
“红色高棉罪行的核心，是完全无视为其革命所付出的人的代价，”美国驻柬埔寨前外交官戴维·钱德勒(David Chandler)说，他现在是研究红色高棉暴行的著名历史学家。“他们的设想完全错误，完全脱离现实。”
The trial began in 2011, more than three decades after the fall of the Khmer Rouge, a delay that was one of several factors that complicated the quest for justice.
对红色高棉罪行的审判始于该政权倒台三十多年后的2011年，审判的迟缓是使寻求正义变得复杂的因素之一。
“Justice on this scale cannot be done by any trial mechanism as far as I can see,” Mr. Chandler said.
钱德勒说，“据我所见，这么大规模地寻求正义不可能通过任何审判机制来完成。”
The limited scope of the trial and verdict, which dealt only with the forced evacuations and one site where mass executions occurred, has frustrated many observers and victims, and even the staunchest supporters of the trial have been ambivalent about the process.
许多观察员和受害者对审理和判决的有限范围表示不满，这次审判仅涉及强制疏散和一个发生过大规模处决的地方，就连最坚定支持审判的人都对这个法律过程有矛盾的看法。
“We knew that the court would not resolve everything. But it was important to have the proceedings. We had to continue the search for truth,” said Youk Chhang, the founder of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, an organization that has amassed a trove of documents and photographs from the Khmer Rouge era.
“我们知道法庭不可能解决所有的问题。但进行这些诉讼程序很重要。我们必须继续寻找真相，”柬埔寨文献中心(Documentation Center of Cambodia)创始人尤张(Youk Chhang)说。该组织收集了大量的红色高棉时代的文件和照片。
“There’s a satisfaction knowing that these people will never be released,” said Mr. Youk Chhang, who was among those expelled from Phnom Penh in 1975. “They lost their freedom.”
尤张说，“这些人再也不会被放出来，知道这一点给人以一种满足。他们失去了自由。”他是1975年被驱赶出金边的人之一。
Though hearings have begun for the two leaders’ second trial, it remains an open question how far the proceedings will go, given the age and frailty of the defendants. Both men have been hospitalized several times over the past three years, leading to multiple delays. Mr. Nuon Chea on some occasions has testified by video link from a hospital-style bed in the court’s basement.
虽然审理这两个领导人第二个案子的听证会已经开始，但法律程序能进行到什么程度仍是一个未知的问题，因为这两个被告都年事已高且身体虚弱。两人在过去三年中已多次住院，导致审判多次推迟。有几次，农谢是从法院地下室的一个类似病床的床上，通过视频连接提供证词。
Another defendant, Ieng Sary, the foreign minister of the Khmer Rouge government, died in 2013, and his wife, Ieng Thirith, who was also a minister, was declared mentally unfit for trial. Pol Pot, the Khmer Rouge leader, died in the jungles of northwestern Cambodia in 1998, years before the tribunal was established.
另一名被告英萨利是红色高棉政府的外交部长，他已在2013年去世，他的妻子英蒂利也曾任部长，她被宣布不具备出庭受审的精神状况。红色高棉领导人波尔布特已于1998年在柬埔寨西北部的丛林中去世，那是特别法庭成立的好几年前。