Far humbler corners of America have faced a similar dilemma: How much human activity should be allowed in a natural setting that is also promoted as a tourist destination?
美国一些蛮荒的偏远之地都面临着类似的困境：在一个被推广为旅游目的地的自然环境里，应当允许多少人类活动呢？
The National Park Service is proposing a significant makeover of Yosemite National Park that would change the way future generations of visitors experienced the park, especially the seven-mile-long Yosemite Valley at its heart. The Park Service’s plan would restore more than 200 acres of meadows, reorganize transportation and reduce traffic congestion. To shrink the human presence along the Merced River, park officials are also proposing closing nearby rental facilities for bicycling, horseback riding and rafting, and removing swimming pools, an ice rink and a stone bridge.
美国国家公园管理局(National Park Service)提出了一项对约塞米蒂国家公园(Yosemite National Park)进行重大调整的方案，方案将改变游客们未来在这座公园游览的体验，特别是对处于其中心的7英里（约合11公里）长的约塞米蒂山谷。国家公园管理局的计划包括恢复200多英亩（约合81公顷）草地，重新组织交通并减少交通堵塞。为了减少默塞德河沿岸的人类活动，公园官员还提议关闭附近的自行车、马具和漂流用具租赁设施，移除游泳池、一座溜冰场和一座石桥。
As with most things related to one of the nation’s most beloved national parks, the plan has ignited fierce debate among environmentalists, campers, and officials in California and Washington.
就像大多数牵扯到美国人最喜爱的国家公园的事宜一样，这一计划在环保人士、露营者，以及加利福尼亚州和华盛顿的官员之间，引发了激烈的辩论。
Representative Tom McClintock, a Republican whose district includes Yosemite, said at a recent House hearing that the idea of removing commercial facilities was meant to satisfy “the most radical and nihilistic fringe of the environmental left.” But some environmentalists said the plan did not go far enough in protecting Yosemite Valley and the Merced River, which flows through 81 miles of the park.
共和党众议员汤姆·麦克林托克(Tom McClintock)的选区包含约塞米蒂，他在最近的一次众议院听证会上说，移除商业设施的想法，是为了满足“环保主义左派中，最为偏激和虚无主义的边缘分子”。但一些环保主义者称，该计划远远不足以保护约塞米蒂山谷和默塞德河。默塞德河有81英里长的河段流经约塞米蒂国家公园。
Even among tourists, there was little consensus recently regarding a park that is many things to its four million annual visitors.
对于这座每年接待400万名游客的国家公园的各方面讨论，即便是在游客当中也缺乏共识。
At the bicycle rental stand that could be closed, Fred Chytraus, who was picking up some bicycles with his family, said he wanted the facility to remain open. It was more convenient for his family, he said, than bringing bicycles or renting from a shop outside the park, alternatives the Park Service is recommending. At the same time, he said, reducing traffic congestion should be a priority.
在可能会被关闭的自行车租赁点旁，弗雷德·柴特劳斯(Fred Chytraus)和他的家人正要推出几辆自行车，他说他希望这一设施能继续开放。他说，比起公园管理局所建议的自带自行车，或从公园外的店铺租车，现在这样对他的家人来说更为方便。与此同时，他说，应当优先考虑减少交通拥堵。
“There’s just too many people here,” said Mr. Chytraus, a resident of Carlsbad, Calif. “It’s a beautiful place, but we have to be conscious of our footsteps. But the bikes have no emissions. I have more problems with the number of cars coming in. If they bused people in and added biking, that would be the way to go.”
柴特劳斯是加州卡尔斯巴德居民，他说，“这里人实在是太多了。这是个美丽的地方，我们必须留意自己的脚步。但自行车并不排放废气。我觉得开进来的那么多汽车才成问题。他们应该用巴士把人运进来，并增加自行车数量，这才是解决之道。”
The National Park Service early this year released the 2,500-page plan, called the Merced River Plan, in response to a long-running lawsuit charging that it was failing to preserve the river. The stretch of the Merced inside Yosemite was designated a National Wild and Scenic River in 1987 and is protected under federal law.
国家公园管理局今年年初公布了长达2500页的计划，名为《默塞德河计划》(Merced River Plan)，以回应该局面对的一桩旷日持久的诉讼，那起诉讼指控公园管理局未能妥善保护默塞德河。1987年，默塞德河在约塞米蒂国家公园内的河段，被指定为“国家自然与风景河流”(National Wild and Scenic River)并受到联邦法律的保护。
After the Merced flooded in 1997 and destroyed many facilities, the Park Service drew up a rebuilding plan in 2000 that would also protect the river. Two environmental groups sued the Park Service, and a succession of courts rejected the first plan as well as a revised plan in 2005. After a federal appeals court ruling in 2008, the Park Service began working on its current, third plan.
在1997年默赛德河发洪水，冲毁了许多设施之后，公园管理局在2000年起草了一个也涉及保护该河的重建计划。两个环境保护团体起诉了公园管理局，一系列法院否决了第一次的计划，以及2005年修改后的计划。在2008年联邦上诉法院作出一项裁决后，公园管理局开始草拟它的第三个计划，即当前的计划。
The agency had been required to produce a final plan by the end of July but was granted a five-month extension on Thursday.
公园管理局被要求在7月底前拿出最终方案，但在周四被获得了5个月的延期。
Scott Gediman, a spokesman for Yosemite, said the current plan incorporated more scientific analysis and public input than the two previous ones. In the public comment period after the release of the plan in January, he said, the Park Service has held 60 public meetings and received 30,000 comments, two-thirds of which supported the plan. The final plan must satisfy the 2008 federal appeals court ruling, which pointed specifically to the commercial services near the Merced as contributing to “the level of degradation already experienced in the Merced.”
约塞米蒂国家公园发言人斯科特·格迪曼(Scott Gediman)称，与前两次的计划相比，当前的计划中包括了更多的科学分析和公众意见。他说，计划在1月份公布，在之后的公众咨询期里，公园管理局举办了60次公众咨询会，并收到了3万条意见，其中三分之二支持该计划。最终计划必须满足联邦上诉法院的裁决，裁决中特别指出，默赛德河附近的商业服务加剧了“默赛德河已经出现的退化”。
“We want, for the American public, a plan that not only protects the river and provides the access but has to be legally sufficient,” Mr. Gediman said.
格迪曼说，“为了美国公众，我们想要制定一个不仅能保护这条河流，还能让人接近这条河流，而且还充分符合法律的计划。”
Greg Adair, the leader of Friends of Yosemite Valley, one of the two groups that sued the Park Service, said there was insufficient scientific analysis underlying the current plan. He said the plan was about the “status quo” and should have done more to decrease commercial services.
“约塞米蒂山谷之友”(Friends of Yosemite Valley)是起诉公园管理局的两个团体之一。其领导人格雷格·阿代尔(Greg Adair)说，当前的计划缺乏充分的科学分析作为依据。他说该计划的目的仅是“维持现状”，应当采取更多措施减少商业服务。
The commercial services that the current plan proposes to remove, he said, were “tokenism,” adding, “There could have been 30 or 40 such things put on the chopping block.”
他表示，当前计划提议移除的商业服务都是“表面文章”，他还补充说，“本应有三、四十项类似的东西应该移除。”
Mr. Adair said the plaintiffs had retained the option to litigate. “We do think they could probably revise this plan, but significantly, not a tweak or tinkering, to get it right,” he said.
阿代尔说，原告保留了诉讼的权利。他说，“我们的确认为他们可能会进行修改，从而制定出得当的计划。不是小修小补，而是大改。”
The other plaintiff, Mariposans for the Environment and Responsible Government, sounded more conciliatory. Its leader, John Brady, said the group had “reluctantly endorsed” the Park Service’s plan, though he said he would like to see more restoration of the riverbanks and a significant reduction of the daily maximum capacity of visitors — 19,900 — that is proposed.
另外一个原告“马里波萨人环境与负责政府协会”(Mariposans for the Environment and Responsible Government)的语气听起来更缓和一些。其领导人约翰·布雷迪(John Brady)表示，该组织已“勉强认可”公园管理局的计划，不过他说，他希望看到河岸能得到更多修复，提议中每日接待1.99万名游客的数量也应当大幅降低。
“We feel that more could be done,” Mr. Brady said, “but we recognize that there are a lot of demands for use on the park.”
“我们觉得还可以做更多事，”布雷迪说，“但我们承认，现在对公园有大量使用需求。”
Over the years, Mr. Adair said, the plaintiffs have financed their lawsuits through the sale of T-shirts and donations from individuals, as well as two companies, Patagonia, the outdoor clothing manufacturer, and Clif Bar, an organic food producer.
阿代尔说，多年来，两个原告通过售卖T恤衫，以及个人及两家公司的捐助为诉讼筹措经费。这两家公司分别是户外服装生产商Patagonia和有机食品生产商Clif Bar。
At the Congressional hearing, the plan drew rebukes from critics of the reduction in commercial services.
在国会的听证会上，该计划遭到了批评减少商业服务的人的指责。
Brian Ouzounian, head of the Yosemite Valley Campers Coalition, said the number of camping sites would be increased under the plan but would still be below the numbers that existed before the 1997 flood.
约塞米蒂山谷露营者联盟(Yosemite Valley Campers Coalition)负责人布赖恩·乌祖尼安(Brian Ouzounian)说，根据该计划，露营地的数量会有所增加，但仍然低于1997年发生洪水之前的水平。
Wendy Brown, a resident of Mariposa, Calif., and a leader of Yosemite for Everyone, said removing bicycle rentals and other services would make such activities inaccessible to most visitors.
加州马里波萨居民、“大家的约塞米蒂”(Yosemite for Everyone)领导人之一温迪·布朗(Wendy Brown)说，移除自行车租赁设施和其他一些服务，会导致大多数游客无法开展类似活动。
“We want the amenities and recreational activities that have been there for 150 years to continue,” Ms. Brown said. Referring to the Merced’s designation as a National Wild and Scenic River, she added: “We need to undesignate it and leave that section of the river alone. That would solve a lot of problems.”
“我们想要继续享受那些便利设施和休闲活动，它们已经存在150年了，”布朗说。说到默塞德河被定为国家自然与风景河流，她补充说：“我们需要取消这个称号，不要去管那一段河流。这样会解决许多问题。”
Neal Desai, an associate director of the National Parks Conservation Association, which has endorsed the Park Service’s plan, said there was a history of rethinking the park’s role and the kind of activities allowed. For example, two longstanding activities — the feeding of bears by park rangers and the Yosemite Firefall, a summertime practice of dropping hot embers from the top of Glacier Point — were ended in the 1950s and 1960s.
认可公园管理局计划的国家公园保护协会(National Parks Conservation Association)副主任尼尔·德赛(Neal Desai)表示，过去也有过重新考量公园的角色，重新考量哪些活动可以允许的事例。比如，两种曾长期存在的活动，即公园巡逻人员喂熊和约塞米蒂火瀑布(Yosemite Firefall)，在上世纪50、60年代终止了。约塞米蒂火瀑布是夏季里的一种活动，就是把余火未尽的炙热木块从冰川顶(Glacier Point)上扔下去。
“Yes, those were interesting things back then” Mr. Desai said. “But with more information and science and the changing views of the public, the park updates how it provides visitor amenities and services.”
“是的，当时那些活动都很有意思，”德赛说，“但现在有了更多信息和科学知识，且公众的观点也在不断发生变化，公园也相应地更新了向游客提供设施和服务的方式。”