YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, Calif. — A wildfire near Yosemite National Park — already one of the biggest in California’s history — continued to grow on Sunday, prompting mandatory evacuation orders for some residents and raising anxiety among officials because of the potential threat to a major source of San Francisco’s water and power supplies.
加利福尼亚州约塞米蒂国家公园——周日，约塞米蒂国家公园附近的山火持续加大，而这本已是加利福尼亚州历史上规模最大的火灾之一。山火促使当局向一些居民下达了强制疏散令，并在官员当中引发了不安，原因是它对旧金山主要的水源和电源构成了潜在威胁。
The so-called Rim Fire had burned about 134,000 acres as of late Sunday — about 9,000 acres more than it had the previous day — making it the 14th largest fire since California began keeping records on wildfires in 1932 and the second largest in Tuolumne County.
截至周日晚间，被称作环火(Rim Fire)的大火已经吞噬了大约13.4万英亩（约合54万亩）的植被，比前一天的吞噬面积多出了9000英亩左右。此次火灾由此成为加州自1932年有记录以来规模第十四大的火灾，以及图奥勒米县的第二大火灾。
Officials said that firefighters had contained about 7 percent of the fire, which began just over a week ago, and that it had caused no loss of life or significant property damage. And although the fire has burned some acreage in Yosemite, the most visited area of the park, the Yosemite Valley, is not threatened so far, officials said.
官员们说，消防队员已经遏制住了约7%的火势。这场大火始于一周以前，火灾没有造成人员丧生，也没有造成重大的财产损失。官员们说，尽管大火烧到了约塞米蒂国家公园的一些地区，但参观者最常去的约塞米蒂峡谷迄今为止还没有受到威胁。
Despite its size, the fire has not threatened population centers or heavily trafficked parts of Yosemite, but it was more the potential of the fire than the actual damage so far that spurred officials into action. Officials said that the fire tripled in size from Wednesday to Thursday and then doubled again from Thursday to Friday.
虽然火势巨大，但这场火灾并没有威胁到约塞米蒂的人口中心或交通密集的区域，尽管如此，迄今为止，相较于实际损失，促使官员采取行动的更多还是火灾的潜在威胁。官员们说，周三到周四，火势扩大了两倍，周四到周五，火势又扩大了一倍。
Even though the spread of the fire had slowed by Sunday, officials said that it was still growing, and that they worried that strong winds could whip the blaze into unpredictable directions and further endanger firefighters.
截至周日，大火的蔓延速度已经放缓，但官员们说，火灾仍在继续增大，他们担忧，强风可能会把火焰吹往不可预料的方向，加大消防人员面临的危险。
“We’ve had success to the west,” said Jerry Snyder, a spokesman for the federal Forest Service, “but the north is still expanding.”
联邦林务局(Forest Service)的发言人杰里·斯耐德(Jerry Snyder)说，“在西边，我们已经取得了胜利，可是，北边的火势依然在扩大。”
Nearly 3,000 firefighters are involved, some brought in from as far away as Florida, officials said, and the Forest Service has deployed nine helicopters.
官员们说，有近3000名消防员参与灭火，其中一些是奉命从远至佛罗里达的地方赶来的，此外，林务局已经部署了九架直升机。
State and local officials prepared for the possibility of home evacuations and disruptions to public utilities. The weekend began with a declaration by Gov. Jerry Brown of a state of emergency for San Francisco County.
美国联邦官员和当地官员为疏散家庭和公共设施遭到破坏的可能性做好了准备，刚一进入周末，加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)就宣布，旧金山县进入紧急状态。
Many eyes were on the status of public utilities in the Bay Area, about 140 miles west of Yosemite. The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission said on Sunday that the fire had not affected the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir, which supplies water to 2.6 million customers. That reservoir accounts for 85 percent of San Francisco’s water supply, but the commission emphasized in a statement that it also had “a large supply” of water stored in local reservoirs.
许多人都在关注旧金山湾区公共设施的状态，该地位于约塞米蒂国家公园以西大约140英里（约合225公里）处。旧金山公用事业委员会(Public Utilities Commission)周日表示，火灾没有影响到给260万用户供水的赫奇赫奇水库(Hetch Hetchy Reservoir)。该水库的供水占到旧金山供水总量的85%，不过，委员会在一份声明里强调，当地其他水库也有“大量水源”。
“We are monitoring water quality every minute of each day to ensure its quality and safety,” the utility said.
“我们时时刻刻都在监测水质，以确保它的质量和安全，”该委员会说。
Tuolumne County officials announced that all schools would be closed on Monday and Tuesday, mere days after the school year began. Most schools in the county opened on Wednesday.
在新学年开始仅仅几天之时，图奥勒米县的官员宣布，所有学校周一、周二停课。周三，该县的大部分学校正常上课。
“We felt it’s the safest for the kids to close the schools,” said Joseph A. Silva Jr., the Tuolumne County schools superintendent, citing both the air quality and the amount of equipment, like fire trucks and bulldozers, around the schools closest to the fire. He said the decision was made in conjunction with the multiagency incident command for the Rim Fire, a public health officer and the county’s Air Pollution Control District.
“当时我们觉得，学校停课对孩子来说是最安全的，”图奥勒米县学监小约瑟夫·A·席尔瓦(Joseph A. Silva Jr.)说，他援引的理由是空气质量，以及距离火灾最近的那些学校周边的灭火设备数量，比如消防车和推土机。他说，相关决定是与负责扑救环火的跨部门事故指挥中心、一名卫生官员以及该县空气污染控制区(Air Pollution Control District)联合作出的。
The fire has also caused economic concerns in Tuolumne County, which stretches from about 30 miles west of Yosemite almost to the eastern edge of the park. Because a majority of the county’s land area is inside the park, its economy is heavily reliant on tourism.
大火也引发了图奥勒米县的经济担忧，该县从约塞米蒂国家公园以西约30英里（约合48公里）处几乎一直延伸到公园的最东边。因为该县的大部分陆地区域都在公园之内，经济便严重依赖旅游业。
One store owner, Dan Vaughn of Pinecrest General Store, told The Sacramento Bee that sales had dropped by 95 percent since the fire began.
派力斯特杂货店(Pinecrest General Store)的老板丹·沃恩(Dan Vaughn)告诉《萨克拉门托蜜蜂报》(The Sacramento Bee)说，火灾发生后，销售额已经下降了95%。
Residents in Pine Mountain Lake, on the southwestern side of the fire, were being allowed to return to their homes on Sunday afternoon after a mandatory evacuation order. As that was happening, four or five homes in a sparsely populated area to the southeast of the fire were put under a mandatory evacuation order, Mr. Snyder said, and residents of Tuolumne City and Ponderosa Hills to the northwest were under an evacuation advisory as the fire continued to spread in that direction.
周日下午，被强制疏散之后，位于火灾西南方向的派恩山湖(Pine Mountain Lake)的居民获准返回家园。斯耐德说，他们返回之时，火灾东南方向一个人烟稀少地区的四、五户人家被强令疏散，由于火灾继续向西北蔓延，位于该方向的图奥勒米市和庞德罗莎森林(Ponderosa Hills)的居民也被建议疏散。
As of Sunday afternoon, the fire had destroyed 23 structures, including at least 4 homes, officials said. But there were no reports of deaths or injuries.
官员称，截至周日下午，大火已摧毁23栋建筑，其中包括至少4座住宅。但没有人员伤亡的报告。
The largest wildfire in California’s history was the 273,246-acre Cedar Fire in October 2003, which killed 15 people. The largest in Tuolumne County was the Stanislaus Complex Fire in August 1987, which burned 145,980 acres and killed one person.
加州历史上最大的火灾是2003年10月的锡达大火(Cedar Fire)，那次火灾燃烧面积273246英亩，造成15人死亡。图奥勒米县发生的最大火灾则是1987年8月的斯坦尼斯劳斯大楼火灾(Stanislaus Complex Fire)，那次大火燃烧面积145980英亩，造成1人死亡。
The fear is that the current fire may eclipse the county’s record before being knocked down.
人们担心，在被扑灭前，当前这场大火可能会打破该县的记录。
“You can look for the size to change upward,” said Mr. Snyder of the Forest Service.
“火势多半还会扩大，”林务局的斯耐德说。