AMMAN, Jordan — There was one feeling that many of the Middle East’s fractious clerics, competing ethnic groups and warring sects could agree on Wednesday: a shared sense of revulsion at the Islamic State’s latest excess, its video showing a Jordanian pilot being burned alive inside a cage.
约旦安曼——周三，中东许多喜怒无常的神职人员、相互争斗的族群和敌对的宗派在一种感觉上达成了一致：共同厌恶伊斯兰国(Islamic State)最近的过分之举，即公布视频，展示一名约旦飞行员被活活烧死在一个笼子里。
In Syria, the government denounced the group that has been fighting it for months, but so did Qaeda fighters who oppose both the government and the Islamic State. In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood and the Egyptian government for once agreed on something, the barbarity of the militant group for the way it murdered the Jordanian, First Lt. Moaz al-Kasasbeh. Grand Sheikh Ahmed al-Tayeb, the head of Cairo’s thousand-year-old Al Azhar institute and a leading Sunni scholar, was so angered that he called for the Islamic State’s extremists to be “killed, or crucified, or their hands and legs cut off.”
在叙利亚，政府对数月来一直与其作战的该组织表示谴责，但既反对政府、也反对伊斯兰国的基地组织(Qaeda)武装分子也做出了同样的举动。在埃及，穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)和埃及政府破天荒地在某件事上达成了一致意见，那就是伊斯兰国杀害约旦中尉莫阿兹·卡萨斯贝(Moaz al-Kasasbeh)的方式体现出的残暴。开罗有一千年历史的爱资哈尔大学(Al Azhar)校长、著名的逊尼派学者大谢赫艾哈迈德·塔伊布(Grand Sheikh Ahmed al-Tayeb)愤慨至极，呼吁要把伊斯兰国的极端分子“杀掉，或者钉死在十字架上，或是砍下他们的手脚”。
In a way that the beheadings of hostages had not, the immolation of Lieutenant Kasasbeh united the Arab world in an explosion of anger and disgust at the extremists, also known as ISIS or ISIL, or to most Arabs by the word “Daesh,” derived from the extremists’ Arabic acronym.
卡萨斯贝被烧死一事，以之前人质遭斩首事件所没有的方式，引发了人们对极端分子的满腔怒火和厌恶，让阿拉伯世界团结在了一起。伊斯兰国又名ISIS或ISIL，大部分阿拉伯人则称其为Daesh——这个称谓是从该组织的阿拉伯语缩写衍生而来的。
The sense of anti-Daesh unity made for strange scenes throughout the region. Jordan’s King Abdullah II, caught by surprise in Washington when the video was released, returned home not to anger at his absence, but to a hero’s welcome. Crowds lined his route from the airport to cheer Jordan’s decision to promptly retaliate by executing two convicted terrorists, both with connections to the Islamic State, only hours earlier.
对Daesh同仇敌忾的感觉，导致中东地区各处出现了一些奇怪的场景。焚烧视频的公布，令当时身在华盛顿的约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世(King Abdullah II)措手不及。回到约旦的时候，迎接他的不是因为自己不在国内而激起的怒火，而是英雄般的欢迎。人群排在他离开机场的路上，为约旦几小时前决定立即处决两名已被定罪的恐怖分子以示报复而欢呼。这两人均和伊斯兰国有关联。
Never known as a charismatic leader, King Abdullah got rave reviews at home for his tough talk in Washington, where in a meeting with congressional leaders he said his retribution would remind people of the Clint Eastwood movie “Unforgiven.”
从未以魅力出名的国王阿卜杜拉二世，因为在华盛顿的强硬讲话而在国内大受好评。在与美国国会领袖举行的一次会议上，他宣称自己的惩罚措施会让人们想起克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)的电影《不可饶恕》(Unforgiven)。
While the propaganda video, with its vows to kill other fighter pilots bombing Islamic State positions, was clearly aimed at trying to scare Jordan out of the American-led coalition fighting the extremists, it seems to have had the opposite effect among many Jordanians. Jordan is one of a half-dozen Arab countries actively participating in the coalition, in addition to Iraq, and Jordan’s government spokesman said the kingdom would now step up its involvement.
在伊斯兰国的那段宣传视频中，该组织发誓会杀掉轰炸其据点的其他战斗机飞行员。视频的目的显然是想恫吓约旦，让其脱离美国领导的作战联盟，但在很多约旦人身上，它似乎适得其反。除了伊拉克，约旦也跻身于积极加入该联盟的五六个阿拉伯国家之列。约旦政府发言人表示，该国现在将加大参与力度。
“I guess in a way we lost a pilot, but at the same time I think the government gained a collective support for fighting them, in Jordan and from all around too,” said Adnan Abu-Odeh, a former head of Jordan’s intelligence service. “Daesh have made a big error. When you are weakened as they have been, you try to make your supporters think you are strong by being more monstrous, but this time they went too far.”
“我猜，在某种程度上我们失去了一名飞行员，但与此同时，我觉得在约旦国内和世界范围内，政府获得了抗击该组织的一致支持，”约旦情报机构前负责人阿德南·阿布-乌达(Adnan Abu-Odeh)说。“Daesh犯了一个大错。当你像他们那样遭到削弱时，你会试图变得更加可怕，从而让支持者认为你很强大，但这一次他们做过头了。”
In Syria, where a chaotic four-year insurgency provided the Islamic State with an incubator, both those supporting President Bashar al-Assad and those opposing him condemned the act, as did their foreign backers.
在叙利亚，总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的支持者和反对者均谴责了这一行径，双方的外部支持势力也表达了同样的立场。叙利亚持续了四年的混乱局面为伊斯兰国提供了发展壮大的温床。
Iran, the Syrian government’s most important ally and no friend of Jordan, called the pilot’s killing “inhumane and un-Islamic.” Al Manar, the television station of another ally of the Syrian government, the Lebanese Shiite group Hezbollah, called it “the most gruesome” of many atrocities committed by the Islamic State.
叙利亚政府最重要的盟友、与约旦交恶的伊朗称，杀害这名飞行员的行为“惨无人道，不符合伊斯兰教的做法。”叙利亚政府的另一个盟友、黎巴嫩什叶派组织真主党(Hezbollah)旗下的灯塔电视台(Al Manar)称，这是伊斯兰国犯下的诸多暴行中，“最令人毛骨悚然的一次”。
Qatar, which opposes Mr. Assad, likewise condemned the killing as “contravening the tolerant principles” of Islam. Turkey, blamed by many in the region for allowing foreign fighters to cross its borders into Syria, where some join the Islamic State, also chimed in. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan called it an act of “savagery” that had no place in Islam, adding, “I curse and damn the burning of the Jordanian pilot.”
反对阿萨德政府的卡塔尔同样痛斥了这次杀戮行为，称它“有悖于”伊斯兰教的“宽容原则”。土耳其也表达了同样的看法。土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)称，这是一种“野蛮”行径，在伊斯兰教中没有立足之地，并表示，“我诅咒并谴责烧死约旦飞行员的行为。”该地区的许多国家指责土耳其允许外国武装分子穿过其边境进入叙利亚，使他们得以在叙利亚加入了伊斯兰国。
Denouncing the Islamic State as a “diabolical” terrorist group, Al Azhar’s leader and grand imam, Mr. Tayeb, cited Quranic verses to show that Islam forbids the burning or mutilation of enemies at war.
爱资哈尔大学校长、大伊玛目塔伊布谴责伊斯兰国是一个“恶魔般”的恐怖组织。他援引了《古兰经》中的章节，来证明伊斯兰教禁止在战争中烧死敌人或残害对方身体。
“This vile terrorist act,” he said in a statement issued by Al Azhar, “requires punishment as cited by the Quran for oppressors and spoilers on earth who fight God and his prophet, that they be killed, or crucified, or their hands and legs cut off.”
他在爱资哈尔大学发布的一份声明中说，“这种卑劣的恐怖主义行径，需要接受《古兰经》上列举的针对尘世间反对真主和先知的压迫者和掠夺者的惩罚措施，即把他们杀掉，或者钉死在十字架上，或是砍下他们的手脚。”
Al Azhar, a seat of Islamic learning, considers itself a beacon of moderation and tolerance for the Sunni Muslim world, and the statement offered no explanation for the incongruity of Mr. Tayeb’s advocating some of the same medieval punishments typically employed by extremists.
爱资哈尔大学为修习伊斯兰教的中心，自认为是代表着逊尼派穆斯林世界的温和与宽容的灯塔。不过，声明中没有解释，塔伊布为何会倡导一般被极端分子使用的古老刑法。
Mainstream Arab leaders reacted to the immolation in a categorically different way to the long string of hostage beheadings that preceded it. Partly that may have been because, according to many commentators Wednesday, burning someone alive is prohibited in Islam as a punishment that belongs to God alone, applied in hell. Beheadings, on the other hand, have a long Islamic history.
主要的阿拉伯国家的领导人对这次焚烧行为的反应，与对之前发生的一连串人质斩首事件的反应截然不同。许多评论人士周三表示，一个原因可能是，将一个人活活烧死在伊斯兰教中是明令禁止的，这种惩罚只属于真主本身，在地狱中使用。另一方面，斩首在伊斯兰文化中有着很长的历史。