AMMAN, Jordan — The Jordanian government agreed on Wednesday to release a convicted terrorist in exchange for the freeing of an air force pilot captured by Islamic State militants in Syria a month ago, according to a statement released on Jordanian state television just before a deadline set by the extremists.
约旦安曼——据约旦国家电视台在极端分子规定的最后期限即将到来之前发布的声明，约旦政府周三同意释放一名被判有罪的恐怖分子，用其来交换伊斯兰国武装分子一个月前在叙利亚捕获的一名空军飞行员。
The militants had threatened to kill the pilot and a Japanese journalist if the deadline was not met. The Jordanian statement made no mention of the fate of the journalist.
武装分子曾威胁，如果在最后期限到来时不能满足他们的要求，就将杀死这名飞行员及一名日本记者。约旦的声明中没有提及该记者的命运。
“Jordan confirms that it is completely prepared to release the prisoner Sajida al-Rishawi if Moaz al-Kasasbeh is released and his life is intact,” the statement said.
声明说，“约旦确认完全做好了释放囚犯赛义达·里沙维(Sajida al-Rishawi)的准备，如果莫阿兹·卡萨斯贝(Moaz AL-Kasasbeh)能被释放、而且他的生命完好无损的话。”
The minister of state for media affairs, Mohammad Momani, said that Jordan’s priority from the start of the crisis had been to ensure the life of the pilot, state television reported.
据国家电视台报道，新闻事务国务大臣穆罕默德·穆曼尼(Mohammad Momani)说，从危机一开始，约旦的首要任务就是确保飞行员的生命安全。
The father of the air force pilot, First Lt. Moaz al-Kasasbeh, had appealed on Wednesday for King Abdullah II of Jordan to free a female suicide bomber in exchange for the release of his son by Islamic State militants — an unusually public outpouring of anger toward the Jordanian authorities.
空军飞行员莫阿兹·卡萨斯贝中尉的父亲周三向约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世发出释放一名女性自杀式炸弹袭击者的请求，换取伊斯兰国武装分子对儿子的释放，这是一次对约旦当局不满的异常公开的表露。
The father, Youssef al-Kasasbeh, broke weeks of silence, requested by government officials, to make the demand at a demonstration calling for the bomber, Ms. Rishawi, to be exchanged for Lieutenant Kasasbeh.
这位名叫优素福·卡萨斯贝(Youssef al-Kasasbeh)的父亲曾按政府官员的要求，保持了数周的沉默，现在他打破沉默，在一个呼吁释放袭击者里沙维的示威集会上，提出用她交换卡萨斯贝中尉的要求。
A video attributed to the extremist organization that was made public on Tuesday featured an appeal from the Japanese journalist, Kenji Goto, for Ms. Rishawi’s release in exchange for his own. Mr. Goto said that both he and the pilot would otherwise be killed, but he did not indicate whether the extremists had also proposed releasing the pilot.
在一段被认为是该极端组织周二公布的视频中，日本记者后藤健二(Kenji Goto)请求释放里沙维，换取自己获释。后藤健二说，否则，自己和那位飞行员将被杀死，但他没有表明极端分子是否也提出要释放该飞行员。
Ms. Rishawi was one of four suicide bombers who attacked three hotels in Amman, the Jordanian capital, in 2005, killing more than 57 people; her explosive vest did not detonate, and she was soon captured and later sentenced to death.
里沙维是2005年在约旦首都安曼三家酒店制造自杀式炸弹袭击的四个人之一，袭击造成至少57人死亡；她穿的炸弹背心没有引爆，她很快被抓获，后来被判处死刑。
“Who is Sajida to us?” Mr. Kasasbeh said on Wednesday at a demonstration of several hundred in support of his son. “Sajida is a burden on us, let them release her. I am asking for the release of Sajida and all the prisoners, and the return of Moaz to us. Keeping her in prison is a burden on us.”
在周三支持其子的有数百人参加的集会上，卡萨斯贝说，“里沙维对我们来说是什么？里沙维是我们的负担，让他们释放她。我要求释放里沙维、释放所有囚犯，让莫阿兹回到我们的怀抱中。把她关在监狱里是我们的负担。”
The pilot’s mother, who declined to give her name, also spoke. “When he joined the air force I expected him to defend Jordan, but not to go fight in another country,” she said of her son. “This is not our business being there.”
婉拒透露自己名字的飞行员母亲也作了发言。“我对他参加空军的期待是，他去保卫约旦，而不是去另一个国家参加战斗，”她这样说起儿子。“那里的事情不归我们管。”
Many of the demonstrators shouted slogans critical of the government and of King Abdullah, and while such conduct has led to arrests in the past, the authorities stood by without intervening. The protest began late Tuesday night and continued into the early morning hours, when Mr. Kasasbeh made his comments.
许多示威者喊出批评政府和阿卜杜拉国王的口号，尽管这种行为过去会导致被捕，但这次当局没有进行干预。抗议活动始于周二夜间，一直持续到周三凌晨，卡萨斯贝在那时发表了他的意见。
Lieutenant Kasasbeh comes from a prominent family and a large tribe from the central Jordanian city of Karak. Jordanian officials were concerned enough about his relatives’ reaction that King Abdullah visited them a day after the pilot’s capture, on Dec. 24.
卡萨斯贝中尉来自一个显赫的家族，这个家族属于来自约旦中部城市卡拉克的一个大部落。约旦官员非常担心飞行员亲属的反应，以至于在去年12月24日他被抓获之后，阿卜杜拉国王在第二天就接见了他的家人。
The pilot is the first prisoner from the American-led coalition to have been taken by the Islamic State since the coalition began airstrikes against the organization. Jordan is one of four Arab countries participating in the Syria strikes.
该飞行员是自美国领导的盟军开始空袭伊斯兰国以来，被该组织抓获的第一名军人。约旦是参与空袭叙利亚的四个阿拉伯国家之一。
Based on Mr. Goto’s statements in the video posted on Tuesday, the deadline to reach a deal was to expire Wednesday afternoon, Jordanian time.
按照周二发布的视频中后藤健二的声明，达成交换协议的最后限期是约旦时间周三下午。
“I only have 24 hours left to live, and the pilot has even less,” Mr. Goto said in the video, which was posted on Twitter accounts used by the extremists, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadist organizations. “Any more delays by the Jordanian government will mean they’re responsible for the death of their pilot, which will then be followed by mine.”
后藤健二在视频中说，“我只能再活24个小时，飞行员剩下的时间就更少了。约旦政府的任何更多延误，将意味着他们对他们飞行员的死亡负有责任，我也将在他之后死去。”据密切关注圣战组织的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)，这段视频是在极端分子使用的Twitter账户上发布的。
As recently as Tuesday afternoon, Mr. Kasasbeh, the pilot’s father, had refused to discuss his son’s case, saying the government had asked him to let it handle the matter in confidence. He said concerns that the Japanese journalist would be released but that his son would not prompted his change in stance.
就在周二下午，飞行员的父亲卡萨斯贝还拒绝讨论儿子的情况，称政府已要求他让政府秘密地处理这件事。他说，对只释放日本记者而不释放自己儿子的担心，让他改变了立场。
“Why should we negotiate for a Japanese? We care about our own son,” he said.
他说，“为什么我们要为日本人进行谈判？我们关心我们自己的儿子。”