As they do every Dec. 8, admirers of John Lennon assembled at the Strawberry Fields memorial in Central Park to sing familiar Beatles songs and imagine a world that lives as one.
就像每年的12月8日一样，约翰·列侬(John Lennon)的崇拜者今年也聚集在中央公园草莓园，唱起“披头士”乐队(Beatles)熟悉的歌曲，想象一个再无隔阂的世界。
The gathering Tuesday, on the 35th anniversary of his killing, had the feeling of miniature peace festival — with fans congregated in a circle around a stone inlay of the word “Imagine” as graying men strummed guitars and shook a tambourine.
本周二是列侬遇害35周年的忌日，当天的聚会有一种小型和平节日的氛围。歌迷们在石块摆成的“Imagine”（想象）字样四周，围成了一个圈，头发泛白的男士弹奏着吉他，晃动着铃鼓。
Online, however, the commemoration was absorbed into one of the political fights of the moment, as many on social media drew a link to modern gun violence in the United States.
但是在网上，纪念活动卷入了当下的一场政治辩论，因为社交媒体上有很多人都把列侬之死和美国现代的枪支暴力联系到了一起。
Yoko Ono, Lennon’s widow, posted an image to her 4.75 million followers on Twitter of the bloodied glasses that her husband was wearing on the day he was fatally shot by Mark David Chapman. It’s an image that Ms. Ono has deployed before, on anti-gun billboards and an album cover. This time it updated the tally of gun deaths to add tens of thousands.
列侬的遗孀小野洋子(Yoko Ono)向她的475万名Twitter关注者发布了一张照片，展示了列侬被马克·戴维·查普曼(Mark David Chapman)枪杀当天所戴的眼镜，上面染着斑斑血迹。小野洋子之前也曾在反枪广告牌和一张专辑的封面上使用过这张照片。但这一次，她更新了美国枪击死亡的人数，增加了数十万人。
By Tuesday evening, Ms. Ono’s post had been retweeted more than 6,000 times, mostly eliciting approval, but also notes of dissent.
截至周二晚间，小野洋子的帖子已经被转发6000余次，其中大多数人表示赞同，但也有一些人提出异议。
Kenneth Womack, a dean at Monmouth University in West Long Branch, N.J., and an author of several books on the Beatles, said the energy on social media this year around the anniversary of Lennon’s death was striking.
肯尼斯·沃马克(Kenneth Womack)是新泽西州西朗布兰奇蒙茅斯大学(Monmouth University)的一位院长，他撰写过几本关于披头士乐队的书。他说列侬忌日今年在社交媒体上引发的热议很惊人。
“It is certainly happening at a time when people are galvanized around this debate,” he said.
“这正是大家热情投入辩论的时候，”他说。
Mr. Womack added that Lennon would himself have been “suitably outraged and part of the debate.”
沃马克还说，列侬本人也会“恰如其分地愤怒起来，成为辩论的一部分”。
“I have almost no doubt in my mind about that,” he said. Mr. Womack said the sense that the world had been robbed of an important voice of conscience had only increased in the decades since Lennon’s death. “That’s the sad fate of it all,” he said.
“对此我几乎没有疑问，”他说，列侬死后的几十年里，人们越来越感觉世界上少了一个有良知的重要声音，“这是所有人的损失，”他说。
In front of the south entrance of the Dakota apartment building in Manhattan, where Lennon was killed, a British tourist, Lyndon Jones, took photographs and paused to reflect on how the peacenik musician would have felt to see the turbulence in the world today.
在列侬遇害的曼哈顿达科他公寓楼的南入口前，英国游客林登·琼斯(Lyndon Jones)拍摄了照片，并想了想这位反战的音乐家，对如今的世界动荡会有怎样的看法。
“Disappointed,” he concluded. “We could use a voice like his, really.”
“他会感到失望，”他总结道。“我们需要一个像他那样的声音，真的。”