If a pop culture web publication ever asked me to make a list of the most cinematic forms of transportation, the train would be at the top, probably followed by the horse. Car chases are cool and everything, but the very first publicly shown movie (at least according to legend) was about a train. Trains on film are both sublime and intimate: The camera can trace the muscular movement of railway cars across the land or venture inside to observe the complicated actions of people in motion.
如果有什么流行文化网络出版物让我列个“电影里最常出现的交通工具”，火车肯定位居榜首，可能接下来才是马匹。汽车追逐的场面当然也挺酷，不过世界上第一部影片就是关于火车（至少传说中是这样）。电影里的火车壮观又亲密，镜头既可以跟随铁轨上的列车在大地上强有力地穿行，也可以探入车厢内部，展现处于运动状态下的人们复杂的行为。
The interior of a train can be made into an allegorical space, a microcosm of social organization. Bong Joon-ho’s “Snowpiercer” imagined that the entire population of the world had been packed into a very long, very fast train, sorted by status and function and governed by a strict set of policies. “The Iron Ministry,” J. P. Sniadecki’s new film, could almost be described as the documentary version of Mr. Bong’s dystopian, futuristic fantasy. Mr. Sniadecki’s trains, which criss-cross China and on which he spent nearly three years filming, doesn’t quite hold all of humanity. It just feels that way.
车厢内部可以成为一个寓言式的空间，一个关乎社会结构的小宇宙。奉俊昊在《雪国列车》(Snowpiercer)中想像地球上的全部人口都挤进一辆高速行驶的长长列车里，这些人以身份地位与社会功能进行分类，受到一系列严厉政策的管束；而史杰鹏(J. P. Sniadecki)的新片《铁道》(The Iron Ministry)几乎像是这部未来主义的反乌托邦奇幻影片的纪录片版本。史杰鹏花了近三年时间去拍摄一列列在中国的大地上东奔西跑的列车，它们承载的并非全人类。但感觉像是。
Early on the journey — which lasts only 82 minutes but feels endless in a mostly good way — the camera moves from the close contemplation of grime and detritus to the butchering of meat. This happens in the space between cars, and it’s somehow both disgusting and alluring. Huge slabs of fatty pork are carefully cut, rolled and hung on wires, to be sold alongside fruits and vegetables by farmers from market towns along the route.
这段火车之旅仅延续了82分钟，却感觉长得令人意犹未尽。在旅途之初，镜头近距离地观察污垢和垃圾，之后移动到切肉的场景。这一切都发生在车厢之间的空间，既恶心又诱人。来自铁路沿线那些集镇的农民，把肥厚的猪肉片悉心切好，卷起来挂在金属线上，和水果蔬菜一起出售。
Theirs is not the only commerce. Snacks and small toys are also available for purchase, and, of course, cigarettes. Mr. Sniadecki does not show his face on screen, but he is nonetheless a presence in the film. You hear his voice as he chats with passengers, and as the camera pushes through crowded, narrow spaces, you’re subliminally but palpably aware of the body and the eye attached to it. “The Iron Ministry” belongs to a school of documentary filmmaking (associated with the Sensory Ethnography Lab at Harvard) that is sometimes described as “immersive.” There is no voice-over, no narrative, no attempt to establish context — just a raw, at times bewildering, flood of sensations.
这不是唯一的商业活动，还有人卖小吃和小玩具，当然，也有香烟。史杰鹏自己的面孔并没有出境，但他是片中的重要存在。你可以听到他同旅客聊天的声音，与此同时，镜头在拥挤、狭窄的空间之间穿行，你可以隐约但却清晰地感受到触碰着镜头的肢体与目光。《铁道》所属的纪录片流派与哈佛大学感官民族志实验室(Sensory Ethnography Lab at Harvard)有关，有时被称为“沉浸式”。没有画外音、没有叙事者、没有试图建立语境的努力，只有各种感官的洪流，粗糙直接，有时也令人迷惑。
In some films of this kind — Lucien Castaing-Taylor and Véréna Paravel’s “Leviathan,” for example, which takes place on a commercial fishing trawler — the viewer plunges into a strange, intense reality and almost drowns in it. To me, “The Iron Ministry” is a more interesting movie partly because, for all its immediacy, it allows you a certain analytic distance from its subject. In other words you can think about what you’re seeing and hearing, and glean nuggets of meaning from what can seem like random encounters and observations.
在这类电影中，有一些能够在商业世界中获得一席之地，比如吕西安·卡斯坦因-泰勒(Lucien Castaing-Taylor)与维瑞娜·帕拉维尔(Véréna Paravel)的《利维坦》(Leviathan)，观众可以沉浸在片中奇异而又无比真实的氛围中，甚至被它淹没。对于我来说，《铁道》要更为有趣，部分是因为，它虽然非常直接，但仍然让你同拍摄对象保持一定距离，让你可以进行分析。换言之，你可以去思考自己看到、听到的东西，从那些看似偶然的邂逅与观察中拾起意味深长的信息。
The last decade has had a boom in documentaries from and about China, films that trace the effects of that country’s social, economic and technological transformation on its workers, peasants, students and entrepreneurs. While “The Iron Ministry” stands perfectly well on its own, it is also an illuminating companion to a movie like Lixin Fan’s “Last Train Home,” about the migration from rural villages to urban factories.
过去十年里，来自中国与关于中国的纪录片都经历了快速发展，大量影片追溯社会、经济与技术改革对这个国家的工人、农民、学生与企业家所产生的影响。而《铁道》完全自成一格，和范立欣的《归途列车》这部反映农民进城打工的影片相映生辉。