These days, Dwight Chapin shoots movies on his iPad. But in the Richard M. Nixon White House, he and his colleagues John Ehrlichman and H. R. Haldeman were Super 8-wielding auteurs, capturing intimate moments that eluded the press corps: Tricia Nixon before her wedding; the president in Beijing enjoying a ballet about a workers’ insurrection; Pope Paul VI shot sideways (because Haldeman had smuggled his camera into the Vatican).
德怀特·查平(Dwight Chapin)如今用iPad拍电影。但当年在理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)任内的白宫里，他和同事约翰·埃利希曼(John Ehrlichman)以及H·R·霍尔德曼(H. R. Haldeman)是使用Super 8摄像机的行家。他们抓拍到了记者团漏掉的亲密时刻：婚礼前的特里西娅·尼克松(Tricia Nixon)；尼克松总统在北京观看关于工人起义的芭蕾舞；教皇保罗六世的侧面镜头（因为霍尔德曼偷偷把摄像机带到了梵蒂冈）。
The images, surreptitious and otherwise, are included in “Our Nixon,” the impressionistic documentary directed by Penny Lane that has its premiere Thursday on CNN. The film makes use of hundreds of reels of  home movies shot by Haldeman, Ehrlichman and Mr. Chapin, some of which had been confiscated by the F.B.I. during the Watergate investigation. The footage remained largely unseen for 40 years.
这些偷拍或明拍的图像被收入了《我们的尼克松》(Our Nixon)里，佩妮·兰(Penny Lane)导演的这部印象派纪录片周四在CNN频道首播。影片充分利用了霍尔德曼、埃利希曼和查平拍摄的几百卷自制胶片，其中一部分在水门事件调查期间被FBI没收了。40年来这些镜头大多不为人所知。
“They weren’t being hidden,” Ms. Lane said. “They were being ignored.”
“它们不是被藏起来了，”兰女士说，“而是被忽视了。”
A Kickstarter campaign by Ms. Lane and her co-producer, Brian Frye, helped pay for transfers of the material, the rights to which were in the public domain, from the National Archive. They spent two years making their film, which was originally intended to be about the personalities revealed, rather than hard-core Nixon history.
兰与她的联合制作人布莱恩·弗莱(Brian Frye)在Kickstarter网站发起活动，获得资金支付了国家档案馆(National Archive)的材料转让费，这些材料原本属于公有领域。他们花了两年时间拍摄电影，这部电影最初意在展示尼克松的个性，而非尼克松时代真材实料的历史。
“We didn’t even want to mention Watergate,” Ms. Lane, 35, said with a laugh, over breakfast in Manhattan. “There are so many great books, and so much research. What we were interested in were the human casualties, the people who got caught up in it, and who went down.”
“我们甚至不想提水门事件，”35岁的兰大笑着说。当时我们在曼哈顿共进早餐，“关于水门事件有那么多精彩的图书和那么多研究。我们感兴趣的是牺牲品们，那些陷入其中的人，那些随之下台的人。”
At the heart of the documentary are nearly 4,000 hours of audio from the infamous Oval Office taping system, 500 reels of Super 8 confiscated by the F.B.I. from Ehrlichman’s desk after his resignation in 1973, and original footage donated by Haldeman’s family to the Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in 2012. It provides a unique look at a doomed presidency that can still start arguments.
纪录片的核心部分来自臭名昭著的总统办公室录音系统的约4000小时的录音、1973年埃利希曼辞职后FBI从他办公桌里没收的500卷Super 8录像机拍摄的胶片，以及2012年霍尔德曼的家人捐赠给尼克松总统图书馆和博物馆的原始录像。它以独特的视角展示了这个注定失败，至今争议不断的总统任期。
“We know that people come into the film with a lot of baggage,” Ms. Lane said. “There are people who say, ‘I can’t hear John Ehrlichman’s voice without my stomach hurting.’ And there’s the Nixon loyalist side, which has its own very strong feelings about, say, Dan Rather, or Daniel Ellsberg.”
“我们知道人们是带着成见来看这部电影的，”兰说，“有些人说，‘我一听见约翰·埃利希曼的声音就肚子疼。’也有些人支持尼克松，对丹·拉瑟(Dan Rather)或丹尼尔·艾尔斯伯格(Daniel Ellsberg)等人有强烈的反感。”
The loyalist side includes Mr. Chapin, the former deputy assistant to the president and the lone surviving member of the White House movie crew. (Haldeman died in 1993, Ehrlichman in 1999.) All three served prison time for Watergate-related crimes. Among the aspects of the documentary Mr. Chapin takes exception to is the juxtaposition of Nixon’s famous “Silent Majority” speech of Nov. 3, 1969, and a telephone conversation with Haldeman that seems to address the same speech.
查平是尼克松的支持者之一，他曾当过尼克松总统的副助理，也是本片白宫出场者中较为长寿的一人（霍尔德曼1993年去世，埃利希曼1999年去世）。三人都曾因与水门事件相关的罪行而入狱。在影片的各个方面之中，查平特别反对其中一点：片中把尼克松1969年11月3日的著名演讲《沉默的大多数》(Silent Majority)与尼克松和霍尔德曼的一段电话通话放在一起，电话中他们似乎在讨论该演讲。
That telephone call never existed, Mr. Chapin said from Yorba Linda, Calif. (home of the Nixon Library) because the Nixon taping system had not yet been installed.
查平在加利福尼亚州约巴林达市（尼克松图书馆所在地）说，从来没有那样的通话，因为尼克松的录音系统那时候还没安装呢。
“That conversation,” he said, “was about a speech much later in the administration. Penny didn’t have anything, so she lifted that discussion from later in the administration and brought it into the Nov. 3 speech. That is obviously creative license, but if you’re representing your film as documentary, it becomes a piece of propaganda.
“那次通话，”他说，“是关于很久之后的一次演讲。佩妮手上没有其他素材，所以她把那次讨论从任期的后期拿出来，和11月3日的演讲放在了一起。那显然是创造性改动，但是如果你把你的电影称为纪录片的话，那就变成了一种政治宣传。”
“I don’t mean to be a fly in the ointment,” Mr. Chapin added. “But when you’re watching it with a group of people, the audience laughs, and they’re laughing at President Nixon based on something that’s not a factual representation.”
“我不是想扫大家的兴，”查平补充说，“但是当你和一群人一起观看的时候，观众大笑，而他们嘲笑尼克松总统的根据不是事实。”
Ms. Lane, who has been making short documentaries since 2004 (“Nixon” is her feature-length debut), conceded that she exercised artistic license in the film and happily cataloged instances where the movie did not proceed chronologically, or where material was edited for clarity.
兰从2004年开始拍摄短篇纪录片（《我们的尼克松》是她的第一部长篇纪录片）。她承认自己在影片中进行了艺术加工。片中有些部分没有按照时间顺序进行，并且为了更加清晰，对某些材料进行了剪辑，因此在这些地方对事件进行了适当归类。
“All of which I told Dwight,” she said. “But I think that to him, any creative license, including the kind of summaries and simplifications that are just necessary to filmmaking, is a problem.”
“我把这些都告诉了德怀特，”她说，“但是我觉得，对于他来说，任何创造性加工都存在问题，包括电影制作中必要的概括和简化。”
Mr. Frye, who teaches about intellectual property and art at the University of Kentucky College of Law, said that the other material in the film — like newscasts and interviews. — are there to provide a context that the home movies lacked.
弗莱在肯塔基大学法学院教授知识产权和艺术。他说电影中的其他材料——比如新闻广播和采访——是为了提供自制录影带所缺乏的背景。
“We tried very hard to be very rigorous in avoiding anything that would cause people to believe something factually inaccurate,” he said. “But when you make a movie, you make aesthetic choices, especially working with archive material. There was a lot of massaging to make some sense out of what we had.”
“我们竭尽全力保持严谨，避免让人们相信一些事实上并不准确的事情，”他说，“但是你在拍电影的时候，要做出审美选择，特别是在处理档案资料的时候。为了让我们拥有的资料变得有意义，会进行很多修改。”
Amy Entelis, senior vice president for development for CNN Worldwide, said “Our Nixon” was an obvious choice for the fledgling CNN Films. (Cinedigm will release the film theatrically Aug. 30.) “So much material was original, and the story is told in an unconventional way.” she said.
CNN全球开发部的高级副总裁艾米·恩特里斯(Amy Entelis)说，《我们的尼克松》是刚刚起步的CNN电影频道的当然之选（Cinedigm公司将于8月30日在院线发行此片）。“里面有那么多原始资料，讲故事的方法也很独特。”
Further programming can be spun off a film like this, she added. Whether Mr. Chapin will be part of it is a question. Two years ago, he was asked by Ms. Lane to cooperate with her film, and he said no.
她补充说，像这样的影片可以衍生出更多的项目。查平是否会参与其中是个问题。两年前，兰邀请他合作拍摄本片，他拒绝了。
“The first I knew it was completed was when I was having breakfast with Carl Bernstein,” he said of the former Washington Post reporter who broke the Watergate story with Bob Woodward. (Mr. Chapin, apparently, doesn’t hold grudges.) “We ran into each other in the Hamptons, and he asked if I’d seen it, and I said no. Penny sent a link.”  
“我得知影片拍完时，正在和卡尔·伯恩斯坦(Carl Bernstein)一起吃早餐，”他说。伯恩斯坦是《华盛顿邮报》的前记者，他和鲍勃·伍德沃德(Bob Woodward)一起揭露了水门事件（查平显然不计前嫌）。“我们在汉普顿斯碰见了，他问我有没有看过这部片子，我说没有。佩妮给我发了个链接。”
Based on watching it four times, “I think the characterization of President Nixon is very stereotyped,” he said. “She viewed and projected exactly what people are sick of seeing. It does not zero in on the incredible six decades of political life he had and his contribution to the country.”
他说自己看了四遍，“我认为该片对尼克松总统的描绘十分老套，”他说，“她回顾和展示的正是人们看厌了的东西。影片没有关注他那非凡的60年政治生涯，以及他对这个国家的贡献。”
Ms. Lane wouldn’t necessary disagree, not about the president. “I think that Nixon’s presidency is slowly emerging out of the shadow of Watergate,” she said. Her own interest, however, is what the White House films say about the three men behind the cameras.
兰不一定会对此表示异议，她或许同意对总统的这种看法。“我认为尼克松政府的真实形象正在慢慢从水门事件的阴影之后浮现出来，”她说。但是她本人的兴趣在于白宫拍的影片中体现的摄相机背后的三个人的故事。
“They looked so excited,” she said. “It seemed so obvious that they thought they were doing something great. It was so sad. They’re all going to prison. And they don’t know that.”
“他们看起来很兴奋，”她说，“他们显然认为自己做的事很伟大。这真是可悲。他们都快要进监狱了，却浑然不知。”