The filmmakers Marco and Mauro La Villa conceived of their forthcoming documentary, “Black and White Stripes: the Juventus Story,” shortly after their father, Giovanni, died in 2001. He had rooted for Juventus, Italy’s most storied soccer club, his entire life. In Pietramilar, the tiny village were Giovanni was born and raised, priests moonlighted as scouts for professional soccer clubs, and at a young age Giovanni was offered a scholarship to go to school in Turin to play for Juventus’s junior squad. His mother disapproved, though, and forced him into the family’s gravestone-painting business. “His life’s great regret was that he didn’t get to chase his dream,” Marco says. The brothers, however, chased theirs, and are currently at Sundance, not screening their movie but rather promoting it with “The Art of Black and White Stripes,” a traveling art exhibition they co-curated with Lapo Elkann, a scion of the Agnelli family, which has owned the team since 1923.
电影制作人马尔科和莫罗·拉·维拉(Marco and Mauro La Villa)在2001年父亲乔瓦尼(Giovanni)去世不久开始构思目前即将上映的纪录片《黑白条纹：尤文图斯的故事》(Black and White Stripes: the Juventus Story)。他们的父亲把一生都献给了意大利最著名的足球俱乐部——尤文图斯。乔瓦尼在一个名叫“皮埃特拉米拉”的小村庄出生、长大，那里的牧师们兼职为职业足球俱乐部物色球员，乔瓦尼很小的时候就得到奖学金，可以去都灵上学，为尤文图斯的少年队踢球。“他人生最大的遗憾是没能去追求自己的梦想，”马尔科说。不过这对兄弟追逐了他们的梦想，目前他们在圣丹斯，不是放映这部纪录片，而是和流动艺术展“黑白条纹的艺术”(The Art of Black and White Stripes)一起推广这部电影。这场展览是他们和拉波·埃尔肯(Lapo Elkann)一起策划的，后者是阿涅利(Agnelli)家族的后代，该家族从1923年起一直拥有这支球队。
After they lost Giovanni to cancer, Marco and Mauro’s devotion to their team deepened. In 2006, Juventus became ensnared in a match-fixing scandal. The team was stripped of two titles and sent down to the third division for the first time since 1897. That’s when the brothers got to work, putting together a 90-second demo of what their movie might look like and showing it to anybody who would watch. “We wanted to tell an inspiring story about the team when it was most challenged,” Marco says. After being introduced to Elkann by Giovanni Togoazzi, the owner of Bar Pitti, the twins gained access to all things Juventus. They shot in the Agnelli family homes and were granted interviews with pivotal figures like Agnelli intimate Henry Kissinger and the legendary players Michel Platini and Giampeiro Bonperti. Elkann and his brother, the Fiat chairman John Elkann, also helped to recruit the movie star Giancarlo Gianinni to narrate the film in Italian; an American screen icon is in talks to do the same for the English version.
在乔瓦尼因癌症去世后，马尔科和莫罗对这支球队的感情更深了。2006年，尤文图斯卷入了假球丑闻。这支球队被取消两项头衔，1897年以来首次被降级到丙级。兄弟俩就是在那时候开始动手拍摄了一个90秒的样片，给每个愿意看的人看，展示他们的电影大概是什么样子的。“我们想在这支球队面临最大危机的时候讲述一个鼓舞人心的故事，”马尔科说。皮蒂酒吧(Bar Pitti)的老板乔瓦尼·托戈齐(Giovanni Togoazzi)把这对双胞胎兄弟介绍给了埃尔肯，他们从此能够接触到尤文图斯的一切。他们在阿涅利家族的家里拍摄，获准采访一些关键人物，比如阿涅利家族的至交亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)以及传奇球员米歇尔·普拉蒂尼(Michel Platini)和贾姆佩罗·波佩蒂(Giampeiro Bonperti)。埃尔肯和他的哥哥、菲亚特(Fiat)的主席约翰·埃尔肯(John Elkann)还帮忙请电影明星吉安卡罗·吉安尼尼(Giancarlo Gianinni)为该片的意大利语版念旁白；美国电影界的一位偶像级人物正在考虑为英文版配音。
The Juventus story is wild, with its share of sex and drug scandals, dirty politics (Silvio Berlusconi figures prominently) and even a decapitation by airplane propeller. Still, the documentary’s real subject is the Agnelli family’s — and the culture’s — passion for the sport. “We started to understand that in Italy, soccer is really the only forum for men to be emotional together,” Mauro says.
尤文图斯的故事很疯狂，因为它跟性和毒品丑闻、政治交易（比如西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼[Silvio Berlusconi]这样的人物）有牵连，甚至还有人被飞机螺旋桨绞死（阿涅利家族中乔瓦尼的叔祖父——译注）。不过这部纪录片真正的主题是阿涅利家族以及意大利人对这项运动的热情。“我们开始明白，在意大利，足球真的是唯一一件能让所有男人激动的事情，”莫罗说。
The film won’t premiere until May, but “The Art of Black and White Stripes,” now on view at Sundance, highlights the never-before-seen archival photography used in the film. During Oscars season, another installation at Los Angeles’s Chateau Marmont will showcase the movie’s use of three-dimensional visual effects. And a TriBeCa event in April will explore the documentary’s sound and music. Ultimately, all three exhibits will be loaded into custom-designed shipping containers and sent to the World Cup in July. But why take a film to Sundance before it’s ready to be screened? “Allow me to make an analogy with the automotive world,” says Elkann. “We want to show what’s under the hood, and we want to do it with an Italian flair.”
这部电影到5月份才首映，但是目前在圣代斯电影节上展出的“黑白条纹的艺术”挑选了电影中用到的一些之前从未公开的档案照片。在奥斯卡颁奖季，另一个装置展览将在洛杉矶的马尔蒙庄园酒店举行，展示该片对三维视觉效果的应用。4月份在特里贝克区举办的一个活动将探索这部纪录片的音效和音乐。最后，这三个展览将被放入特制的集装箱，在7月份运往世界杯举办地。但是为什么要在它没上映之前就把它带到圣代斯电影节上呢？“请允许我拿它和汽车做个比较，”埃尔肯说，“我们想展示引擎盖下面有什么，我们想用意大利的鉴赏方式来呈现它。”