SEOUL, South Korea — They were beaten and forced to make false confessions. Many spent years in prison. Some were executed. Most were forgotten for decades.
韩国首尔――他们遭到毒打，被迫做出假供。很多人入狱数年。有些人被处决。绝大多数被人遗忘了几十年。
Over six decades, scores of people were arrested by South Korean authorities and accused of spying for North Korea, only to be exonerated, sometimes decades later, long after many of them had served lengthy prison sentences. There has never been an official tally of the exact number of people affected, but a new film has documented almost 100 cases, some of which involved alleged spy rings with multiple people.
60年来，韩国官方逮捕了许多人，指控他们是朝鲜特务，很多人因此入狱多年才被宣告无罪，有人在牢里面待的时间可达几十年。此事中受到影响的确切人数从未有过官方记载，但是一部新片记录了将近100个案例，其中有些涉及所谓的间谍网。
The cases have mainly disappeared from public memory, but the new documentary, by the investigative journalist Choi Seung-ho, is lifting a veil on what he sees as one of the most shameful legacies of South Korea’s counterintelligence authorities.
这些案例大致已经从公共记忆中消失，但是这部由调查记者崔升镐(Choi Seung-ho)导演的新纪录片令人们得以看到他心目中韩国反间谍部门最丑恶的遗留问题之一。
Just before the closing credits of the film, “Spy Nation,” a list of the names of the falsely accused scrolls down the screen. It is an eloquent indictment of the abuse of power engaged in by South Korea’s counterespionage agencies, especially the National Intelligence Service, in the name of fighting the threat from North Korea.
这部影片名为《自白》(Spy Nation)，在片尾字幕之前，银幕上打出了那些蒙冤者的名字。它是对那些打着反对朝鲜威胁的旗号滥用权力的韩国反间谍机构的有力指控，尤其是对国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)。
In the 100-minute film, Choi stresses that “manufacturing spies” cannot be dismissed as a distant memory in South Korea, where critics say the veneration of security above all else allows the spy agency to continue to operate with a vast, abusive power.
在这部100分钟的电影里，崔强调，“制造间谍”并非韩国历史上无须再提的遥远记忆，评论人士表示，在韩国，安全至上的观念让间谍部门一直拥有被滥用的巨大权力。
“With this film, I wanted to ask the NIS, ‘What have you done?'” Choi said after a recent screening of the documentary, which is scheduled to reach local theaters next month. “It did what it did because it could get away with it.”
“我想以这部影片向国家情报院发问，‘你们到底干了什么？’”崔在近期的一次放映结束之后说；该片计划于下月在当地院线上映。“因为可以逍遥法外，所以它肆无忌惮。”
Choi, a former TV producer now affiliated with the independent investigative news website Newstapa, accosted or ambushed interrogators and former top officials from the NIS, as well as state prosecutors who worked with them in espionage cases. He challenged them with questions in front of courthouses, at elevators and in airport lounges. All refused to answer, some running away.
崔曾是电视节目制作人，如今隶属于独立调查新闻网站Newstapa，他使用搭讪或突然袭击的方式，与那些审问者或国家情报院的前任高官们，以及曾在那些间谍案中与这些人合作的国家检察官们进行交流。他在法院门口、电梯口和机场候机厅向他们发起咄咄逼人的提问。所有人都拒绝回答问题，有些人甚至跑开。
South Korea created the NIS, initially known as the Korean Central Intelligence Agency, in the 1960s to catch spies from North Korea, with which it remains technically at war. But under successive military dictators, including Park Chung-hee, the father of the current president, Park Geun-hye, the intelligence service and other state agencies were also accused of concocting fake spy cases to arrest and discredit dissidents and divert attention from domestic crises.
韩国在20世纪60年代创立了国家情报院（原名韩国中央情报部[Korean Central Intelligence Agency]），以搜捕朝鲜间谍，当时朝韩两国严格来说还处于战争状态。但是，这个情报机关和其他国家机构也被控在军事独裁者领导下（其中包括现任总统朴槿惠的父亲朴正熙）编造虚假的间谍案，逮捕异见者或败坏他们的声誉，转移民众对国内危机的注意力。
Over the past decade, many of the cases were retried after the government’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission found them to be built on fabricated evidence and confessions extracted through torture.
过去10年来，政府的真相与和解委员会(Truth and Reconciliation Commission)发现许多案子都是建立在捏造证据和严刑逼供的基础之上，此后不少案件得到了重新审理。
But even as many of the victims were cleared of spying charges, some posthumously, the intelligence service was accused of fabricating new cases.
许多受害者洗清了间谍指控，有些人是在去世后才获得平反，尽管如此，有指控称情报机构仍在伪造新的间谍案。
“Spy Nation” chronicles one such case, the story of Yu Woo-sung, an ethnic Chinese from North Korea who defected to the South in 2004.
《自白》依照时间顺序记录了一起这样的案件，案件的主角名叫余吴松（Yu Woo-sung，音），他是在朝鲜居住的华侨，于2004年逃到韩国。
Yu, 35, was considered a rare success story among defectors from the North, who often have trouble adapting to life in the South. He was working as a welfare official at Seoul’s City Hall in 2013 when the NIS arrested him on charges of spying for North Korea. The agency based its accusation largely on confessions it said Yu’s sister, Ga-ryeo, had made after entering South Korea from the North in 2012.
脱北者经常难以适应韩国的生活，35岁的余被视为其中罕有的成功故事。2013年，国家情报院以朝鲜间谍的罪名逮捕他时，他是首尔市政厅的福利官员。国家情报院对他的指控在很大程度上是建立在所谓余先生的妹妹家丽（Ga-ryeo，音）2012年离开朝鲜来到韩国时所做的供述之上的。
At the time, the agency was being plunged into a major scandal. A team of secret agents was accused of running an online smear campaign against Park’s rivals before her election in December 2012. The agency’s former director, Won Sei-hoon, was later convicted on charges of meddling in domestic politics.
当时，国家情报院正陷入一项重大丑闻。一队秘密特工被控在朴槿惠2012年参选之前进行一项网上行动，抹黑她的竞争对手。该机构的前院长元世勋(Won Sei-hoon)后来因插手国内政治而获刑。
Yu’s arrest made headlines, a coup for the intelligence service, which was desperate to salvage its image.
余吴松的被捕成了新闻，成了迫切渴望挽回自身形象的情报机构的一项功绩。
“One day I was a model defector, and the next they made me an evil spy,” Yu said in an interview in 2014.
“前一天我还是模范脱北者，后一天他们就把我变成了邪恶的间谍，”余在2014年接受采访时说。
But Yu’s sister later testified in court that officials had beaten and coerced her into making false confessions against her brother while they held her without legal representation in solitary confinement at the agency’s interrogation center for 179 days. The agency denied using coercion at the center, south of Seoul, where it screens fresh arrivals from the North for up to six months to ferret out spies.
但是余的妹妹后来在法庭上作证时说，情报院的官员曾经打她，胁迫她作伪证指控自己的哥哥，并且在没有法律代表的情况下，把她单独囚禁在情报院的审讯中心长达179天。该中心位于首尔南部，可对新来到韩国的朝鲜人进行最多六个月的筛查，以防有间谍混入，情报院否认在该中心内使用胁迫手段。
Photos that the agency presented as evidence in court, saying they had been taken while Yu was secretly visiting North Korea in 2012, turned out to have been taken in China. The Chinese immigration documents that the agency said had recorded Yu’s border crossings into North Korea were found to have been faked. A Korean-Chinese man stabbed himself in a Seoul hotel room after leaving a suicide note saying the agency had promised to pay him to fabricate the documents. The officer who hired him also tried to kill himself by inhaling carbon monoxide in his car. (Neither man died.)
情报院提供的照片被作为证据呈上法庭，他们说这些照片是2012年余吴松秘访朝鲜时拍下的，最后证明这些照片其实是在中国拍的。情报院所说的中方记录了余吴松跨越边境去朝鲜的移民文件，后来被发现是伪造的。一名朝鲜族中国人在首尔一处酒店房间里留下遗书后，试图用刀自杀，遗书上说情报院承诺为伪造文件向他支付报酬。雇佣此人的官员也试图在自己的车中吸入一氧化碳自杀（两人均获救）。
The court threw out the espionage charge against Yu.
法庭拒绝对余先生的间谍指控立案。
The agency declined to comment on “Spy Nation,” which won the top documentary award at the Jeonju International Film Festival in South Korea in May.
国家情报院拒绝就《自白》发表评论，该片于今年5月在韩国的全州国际电影节上获得了最佳纪录片大奖。
Park apologized for the agency’s fabrication of evidence against Yu and replaced the NIS chief in 2014. The agency has also promised to make its operations at the interrogation center more transparent.
2014年，朴槿惠为国家情报院编造证据指控余吴松而道歉，并撤换了情报院院长。情报院也承诺将其审讯中心内的行为进一步透明化。
Choi said he hoped his movie would spark reform of the agency, adding that its abusive practices were not properly scrutinized by the country’s Parliament or mainstream news media.
崔升镐说，他希望这部电影可以促进情报院的改革，又补充说，它滥用权力的行为从未经过韩国议会或主流新闻媒体的适当审查。
Driving his message home are the voices of the unjustly accused.
那些受到不公正指控者的声音进一步阐明了他的信息。
Lee Cheol, 68, one of the former political prisoners interviewed in “Spy Nation,” was sentenced to death in 1977 on spying charges. He was freed after 13 years, but was exonerated only last year in a retrial.
李哲(Lee Cheol，音)68岁，也是在《自白》中接受采访的前政治犯之一，1977年，他因间谍罪被判处死刑。13年后，他得到释放，但是去年才在复审中被宣告无罪。