Just north of Paris, amidst the sprawling antiques bazaar of the Saint-Ouen flea markets, a burgeoning community of contemporary design and fashion outposts is drawing the attention of the weekend shopping crowd. Within the last two years, Rue des Rosiers, the area’s main thoroughfare, has seen the arrivals of Ma Cocotte (a Philippe Starck-designed restaurant), Habitat 1964 (a midcentury-focused spinoff of the Terence Conran-founded housewares chain) and L’Éclaireur (the multibrand men’s and women’s boutique). The latest addition to the street, located within a quiet courtyard in a space that once belonged to one of Jacques Cousteau’s sons, is a minimalist new concept store that looks the way its name suggests: Le White.
在巴黎市正北，介于圣图安(Saint-Ouen)跳蚤市场那些横七竖八的古董集市之间，一个由当代设计与时尚前哨构成的生机勃勃的社区，正在不断吸引着周末购物人群的注意力。在过去两年中， 这片区域的那条主干道蔷薇街(Rue des Rosiers)，已经陆续迎来了Ma Cocotte（由菲利浦·斯塔克[Philippe Starck]设计的一家餐厅）、Habitat 1964（特伦斯·康兰[Terence Conran]创办的家居用品连锁旗下一家聚焦20世纪中期设计的衍生品牌），以及L’Éclaireur（一家多品牌的男女装精品店）等商店。最新落户于这条街上的一家店铺，坐落于一个安静的庭院里。而庭院所在的地方，曾经归属于雅克∙库斯托(Jacques Cousteau)的儿子们，这是一家极简抽象派艺术的新概念门店，看上去就像店名所指的那样：纯白(Le White)。
Part art gallery and part boutique, Le White showcases exclusively snowy-hued objects made by emerging French designers and artists. Displayed on geometric white shelving units are ceramic vases with elegant metal arches by Jules Levasseur; delicate balsa-wood sculptures by Jarco Weiss; Héloise Edouard’s laser-cut metal “Wicker” lamp, which diffuses light beautifully along the wall and Angèle Guerre’s series of delicate scalpel-cut paper artworks. White taxidermied pieces, created in collaboration with Deyrolle, include a stuffed bird, an octopus skeleton and a scarab, each presented on white bases and enclosed in bell jars.
一半是画廊，一半是精品店，Le White专门展示那些由刚刚崭露头角的法国设计师与艺术家制作的雪白物品。那些几何状的白色置物架上陈列的，是由朱尔斯·勒瓦瑟(Jules Levasseur)设计的、带有优美金属圆拱的陶瓷花瓶；由加尔克·维斯(Jarco Weiss)设计的精致轻木雕塑品；埃洛伊兹·埃杜阿德(Héloise Edouard)的镭射切割金属台灯“Wicker”，可以让灯光顺着墙壁唯美地投射出来；还有昂日尔·盖尔(Angèle Guerre)那一系列精致的手术刀剪纸艺术品。另有一些与戴罗勒(Deyrolle)合作设计的动物标本物品，包括一只填充的鸟、一副章鱼骨架和一只甲虫，每件标本都陈列在白色的基座上，并封存于钟形玻璃罩中。
The store’s owner, Violaine Carrère, who works as a photographer and art director, first conceived of the all-alabaster model for herself when she moved to a new apartment and decided to pare down her aesthetic. “It’s really pleasing, visually,” she says, “though some people feel a malaise from that hospital-y aspect.” To Carrère, the hue is not sterile, but rather allows an object’s texture and nuance to shine through. “I work with white as a sensation of warmth,” she says. “It’s not completely bare; I like having varied pieces, varied materials.” And, she adds, “a lot of artists are really leaning into white right now.”
这家店的主人，是身兼摄影师与美工师的菲奥莲·卡尔雷尔(Violaine Carrère) 。她最初是为自己构想出这种全雪花石膏模型的。当时她搬入了一套新公寓，并决定在审美上做一些简化。“真的让人很愉悦，在视觉上，”她说，“尽管有些人从和医院的相似性上看，会觉得有些不舒服。”对卡尔雷尔来说，这种色调并非代表着无菌，而是让一件作品的质地与神韵彻底展现出来。“我把白色当做一种温暖的感觉来创作，”她说，“并不是完全空泛的；我喜欢有各种样式、各种材料。”而且，她说，“现在许多艺术家真的都在向白色靠拢。”