Nadine Gordimer, the South African writer whose literary ambitions led her into the heart of apartheid to create a body of fiction that brought her a Nobel Prize in 1991, died on Sunday in Johannesburg. She was 90.
南非作家纳丁·戈迪默(Nadine Gordimer)周日于约翰内斯堡逝世，享年90岁。文学抱负令她深入种族隔离制度的核心，创造出一系列虚构作品，在1991年为她带来诺贝尔文学奖。
Her family announced her death in a statement.
家人在一份声明中宣告了她的死讯。
Ms. Gordimer did not originally choose apartheid as her subject as a young writer, she said, but she found it impossible to dig deeply into South African life without striking repression. And once the Afrikaner nationalists came to power in 1948, the scaffolds of the apartheid system began to rise around her and could not be ignored.
戈迪默说，刚开始写作时，年轻的她并未选择种族隔离制度作为主题，但她发现，不抨击压迫，就无法真正深入到南非的生活中去。1948年，南非白人民族主义者开始掌权，种族隔离体系的框架开始在她周围成型，令人无法忽视。
“I am not a political person by nature,” Ms. Gordimer said years later. “I don’t suppose, if I had lived elsewhere, my writing would have reflected politics much, if at all.”
“从天性而言，我对政治并无兴趣，”戈迪默后来说。“我想，假如自己生活在别的地方，我的作品可能不会反映那么多政治，我可能根本就不会写政治。”
But whether by accident of geography or literary searching, she found her themes in the injustices and cruelties of her country’s policies of racial division, and she left no quarter of South African society unexplored, from the hot, crowded cinder-block neighborhoods and tiny shebeens of the black townships to the poolside barbecues, hunting parties and sundowner cocktails of the white society.
但不管是出于地缘的巧合还是文学上的追求，祖国种族分离政策的不公正与残酷成为她的主题，她探索了南非社会的方方面面，从黑人世界酷热拥挤、以煤渣砖建成的社区和小酒馆，到白人社区的泳池烧烤、狩猎派对和落日时分的鸡尾酒会。
Through Ms. Gordimer’s work, international readers learned the human effects of the “color bar” and the punishing laws that systematically sealed off each avenue of contact among races. Her books are rich with terror: The fear of the security forces pounding on the door in the middle of the night is real, and freedom is impossible. Even the political prisoner released from jail is immediately rearrested after experiencing the briefest illusion of returning to the world.
通过戈迪默的作品，全世界的读者了解到种族歧视对人性的影响，以及惩罚性的法律是如何系统性地封闭了种族之间的所有交流途径。她的作品里充满恐怖：担心军警在半夜敲门是一种真实的恐惧，而自由是完全不可能实现的。就算政治犯被释放，也会在短暂体验到回归世界的幻觉之后重新遭到拘捕。
Critics have described the whole of her work as constituting a social history as told through finely drawn portraits of the characters who peopled it.
评论家说她的作品精致刻画了社会的构成者，从而形成了一部社会史。
Ms. Gordimer told little about her own life, preferring to explore the intricacies of the mind and heart in those of her characters. “It is the significance of detail wherein the truth lies,” she once said.
戈迪默很少谈及自己的生活，更愿意谈论笔下人物错综复杂的思想与心灵。她曾说，“真相寓居于细节的意义之中。”
But some critics saw in her fiction a theme of personal as well as political liberation, reflecting her struggles growing up under the possessive, controlling watch of a mother trapped in an unhappy marriage.
但有些评论家从她的小说中找到了政治解放之外的个人主题，认为这些作品亦反映了她在婚姻不幸福的母亲充满占有欲和控制欲的监控下如何努力成长。
Ms. Gordimer was the author of more than two dozen works of fiction, including novels and collections of short stories in addition to personal and political essays and literary criticism. Her first book of stories, “Face to Face,” appeared in 1949, and her first novel, “The Lying Days,” in 1953. In 2010, she published “Telling Times: Writing and Living, 1954-2008, a weighty volume of her collected nonfiction.
戈迪默著有20多本小说，包括长篇小说和短篇小说集，此外还有个人与政治文集和文学评论。她的第一本短篇小说集《面对面》(Face to Face)于1949年出版，第一本长篇小说《说谎的日子》于1953年出版。2010年，她出版了《讲述的时刻：写作与生活，1954-2008》(Telling Times: Writing and Living, 1954-2008)，这是一本厚重的非虚构作品集。
Ms. Gordimer was never detained or persecuted for her work, though there were always risks to writing openly about the ruling repressive regime. One reason may have been her ability to give voice to perspectives far from her own, like those of colonial nationalists who had created and thrived on the system of institutionalized oppression that was named the “grand apartheid” (from the Afrikaans word for “apartness”) when it became law.
虽然公开书写关于高压统治者的内容总是要冒风险，但戈迪默从未因她的作品遭到拘捕或起诉。其中一个原因或许是她能借远离自身的人物之口发言，诸如创立这个制度化的压迫系统、并依靠其发展起来的殖民民族主义者，该系统在成为法律时被称为“大种族隔离制”(grand apartheid)，它来自南非白人语言中的“隔离”(apartness)一词。
Her ability to slip inside a life completely different from her own took her beyond the borders of white and black to explore other cultures under the boot of apartheid. In the 1983 short story “A Chip of Glass Ruby,” she entered an Indian Muslim household, and in the novel “My Son’s Story” (1990), she wrote of a mixed-race character. She won the Booker Prize in 1974 for “The Conservationist,” which had a white male protagonist.
因为具备彻底深入一个与自己截然不同生活的能力，她可以突破黑人与白人之间的藩篱，去探索其他在种族隔离践踏之下的文化。她1983年的短篇小说《一片红宝石玻璃》(A Chip of Glass Ruby)进入了一个印度穆斯林家庭，1990年的长篇小说《我儿子的故事》(My Son’s Story)写了一个混血角色。1974年，她因小说《自然保护者》(The Conservationist)获得布克奖，该书的主角是一个白人男性。
Long before the struggle against apartheid was won, some of her books looked ahead to its overthrow and a painful national rebirth. In “July’s People” (1981), a violent war for equality has come to the white suburbs, driving out the ruling minority. In a reversal of roles, July, a black servant, brings his employers, a white family, to his isolated village, where he can protect them.
在对抗种族隔离的漫长斗争获胜之前，她的一些作品就已经预见到种族隔离制度的覆灭与国家的痛苦新生。1981年的《七月的人民》(July’s People)描写了在白人居住的郊区发生的为平等而进行的暴力战争，少数统治者被驱逐出去。黑人与白人的角色发生了逆转，名叫“七月”的黑奴把自己的雇主——一个白人家庭带到自己遭受隔离的村庄并保护他们。
Ms. Gordimer wrote: “The decently-paid and contented male servant, living in their yard since they had married, clothed by them in two sets of uniforms, khaki pants for rough housework, white drill for waiting at table, given Wednesdays and alternate Sundays free, allowed to have his friends visit him and his town woman sleep with him in his room — he turned out to be the chosen one in whose hands their lives were to be held; frog prince, saviour, July.”
戈迪默写道：“一个报酬丰厚、心满意足的男性奴隶，自从他们结为夫妇以来就一直住在他家的院子里，身上一直是他们给的两套制服——穿卡其布裤子干家务粗活，穿漂白精梳卡其侍餐，周三周日轮换休息，朋友们可以来看他，家乡的老婆可以在他屋里过夜——现在他成了那个被上帝选中的人，他们的生命就在他手里；青蛙王子，救星，七月。”
In “A Sport of Nature” (1987), the white wife of an assassinated black leader becomes, with a new husband, the triumphant first lady of a country rising from the rubble of the old order.
在1987年的《自然的游戏》(A Sport of Nature)中，黑人领袖遇刺后，一个崭新的国家从旧秩序的废墟上升起，他的白人妻子改了嫁，成为胜利的第一夫人。
Perhaps surprisingly, Ms. Gordimer’s books were not the product of someone who had grown up in a household where the politics of race were discussed. Rather, Ms. Gordimer said, in her world, the minority whites lived among blacks “as people live in a forest among trees.”
或许很令人惊讶，戈迪默虽然写出了这些作品，但在她成长过程中，家人鲜少谈论种族政治。她说，在她的世界里，占人口少数的白人“水乳交融、非常自在”地生活在黑人中间。
It was not her country’s problems that set her to writing, she said. “On the contrary,” she wrote in an essay, “it was learning to write that sent me falling, falling through the surface of the South African way of life.”
并不是祖国的问题令她开始动笔写作，在一篇随笔中，她写道，“正相反，是写作令我深深下潜，突破南非生活方式的表相。”
Nadine Gordimer was born to Jewish immigrant parents on Nov. 20, 1923, in Springs, a mining town in the province now known as Gauteng (formerly part of the vast northeastern area referred to as the Transvaal). Her father, Isidore Gordimer, a watchmaker who had been driven by poverty to emigrate from Lithuania, eventually established his own jewelry store. Her mother, the former Nan Myers, had moved with her family from Britain and never stopped thinking of it as home.
纳丁·戈迪默于1923年11月20日生于乡间矿山小镇斯普林斯，如今这里已更名豪登（之前属于东北地区广阔的德兰士瓦省）。她的父母是犹太移民，父亲伊斯多尔·戈迪默(Isidore Gordimer)是钟表匠，因为贫困从立陶宛移居南非，最后开了一家自己的珠宝店。母亲原名南·米尔斯(Nan Myers)，同家人从英国搬来，但一直把英国视为自己的家乡。
In 1945, she attended the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and thrived in what she called the “nursery bohemia” of university life, studying literature and deciding to pursue a writing life.
1945年，戈迪默进入约翰内斯堡的威特沃特斯兰德大学学习文学，她把大学称为“波西米亚的温床”，在这里感觉如鱼得水，并决心献身写作。
With the exception of a trip to what is now known as Zimbabwe, it was not until she was 30 that she ventured outside South Africa.
除了去过如今称为津巴布韦的地方旅游，她直到30岁才离开过南非。
In 1949, Ms. Gordimer married a dentist, Gerald Gavron, and they had a daughter, Oriane. The marriage ended in divorce in 1952. Two years later, she married Reinhold H. Cassirer, an art dealer who had fled Nazi Germany and was a nephew of the philosopher Ernst Cassirer. Their son, Hugo, was born in 1955. Reinhold Cassirer died in 2001; her son and her daughter survive her.
1949年，戈迪默与牙医杰拉德·加弗隆(Gerald Gavron)结婚，育有一女奥利安妮(Oriane)。两人于1952年离婚。两年后，她嫁给艺术商莱因霍尔德·H·卡西尔(Reinhold H. Cassireer)，他是哲学家厄内斯特·卡希尔(Ernst Cassirer)的侄子，从纳粹德国逃来。1955年，两人的儿子雨果(Hugo)出世。莱因霍尔德于2001年逝世，她的子女都尚在人世。
Ms. Gordimer said little about her personal life in interviews. Journalists commonly noted her impatience with certain personal questions, sometimes describing her response as disdainful and irritable.
戈迪默在访谈中很少谈及个人生活。记者们常常注意到她对某些涉及个人的问题缺少耐心，有时会用“轻蔑”和“愤怒”来形容她回答时的语气。
She did mention flirtations on occasion. “My one preoccupation outside the world of ideas was men,” she once said, without providing details.
她偶尔也会谈起情事。她曾说：“在观念世界之外，我的兴趣之一是男人”，但拒绝提供更多细节。
She never wrote an autobiography. “Autobiography,” she said in 1963, “can’t be written until one is old, can’t hurt anyone’s feelings, can’t be sued for libel, or, worse, contradicted.”
她从未写过自传。1963年，她说：“自传不能到老了才写，不能伤害任何人的感情，不能让你落到因为毁谤被起诉，更糟糕的是还不能自相矛盾。”
She was, however, the subject of a 2005 biography, “No Cold Kitchen,” which drew wide attention not least for the bitter fallout she had with its author, Ronald Suresh Roberts, a former Wall Street lawyer who had grown up in Trinidad. She had originally authorized the biography and granted him access, but she later withdrew the authorization, objecting to the manuscript and accusing the author of breach of trust. The publishers under contract for the book — Farrar, Straus and Giroux in the United States and Bloomsbury in Britain — declined to issue it. (Both also were publishers of Ms. Gordimer’s work.)
不过，2005年有一本她的传记出版，书名为《不冷的厨房》(No Cold Kitchen)，她与该书作者罗纳德·萨里什·罗伯茨(Ronald Suresh Roberts)的反目格外引人瞩目；罗伯茨在特立尼达长大，曾在华尔街当过律师。戈迪默曾授权他写这本传记，但后来撤回了授权，反对这份书稿，控告作者辜负了信任。这本书的签约出版社——美国的法勒、斯特劳斯与吉罗克斯出版社和英国的布鲁姆斯伯里出版社——拒绝出版这本书（两家都是戈迪默作品的出版商）。
The biography was eventually published by a small South African house and was the talk of literary South Africa for its accusation that Ms. Gordimer had admitted to fabricating key elements in an autobiographical essay in The New Yorker in 1954. It also paints Ms. Gordimer as a hypocritical white liberal whose words masked a paternalistic attitude toward black South Africa.
这部传记最终由一家南非小出版社出版，一时成为南非文学界的话题；该书指责戈迪默承认曾在1954年《纽约客》上的自传体随笔中捏造关键事实，还把戈迪默描写为一个虚伪的白人自由主义者，其文字之下掩藏的是对南非黑人的家长式态度。
When the Nobel committee awarded Ms. Gordimer the literature prize in 1991, it took note of her political activism but observed, “She does not permit this to encroach on her writings.”
1991年，诺贝尔委员会把文学奖授给戈迪默时赞美了她的政治行动主义，但却指出：“她并未让它（行动主义）蚕食她的写作。”
That sentiment was one she said she clung to throughout her career. In 1975, she wrote in the introduction to her “Selected Stories”: “The tension between standing apart and being fully involved; that is what makes a writer. That is where we begin.”
她说，这种态度正是她在整个写作生涯中始终秉持的。1975年，她在自己的《短篇小说选》(Selected Stories)的前言中写道：“正是置身事外与全心投入之间的张力成就了作家，我们正是从这里开始。”