His private tragedy, Vladimir Nabokov once declared, was that “I had to abandon my natural idiom, my untrammeled, rich, and infinitely docile Russian tongue for a second-rate brand of English, devoid of any of those apparatuses — the baffling mirror, the black velvet backdrop, the implied associations and traditions — which the native illusionist, frac-tails flying, can magically use to transcend the heritage his own way.”
纳博科夫曾经说过，他的个人悲剧在于“我不得不放弃丰富无比的母语——那些我可以信手拈来的自然语汇，可以娴熟驾驭的俄文，而以二流的英文取而代之。于是我失去了我的所有装备————令人眼花缭乱的镜子、黑色的天鹅绒背景布、那些隐含的联想与传统；而一个本土的魔术师，一身白色燕尾服，风度翩翩，驾轻就熟地操作着这些装置，便可神奇地变幻超越他的文化遗产 。”
It was a typically Nabokovian observation — partly earnest, partly tongue-firmly-in-cheek. The novelist also said that “Lolita” could be described as his “love affair” with the English language, and described the decade of the ’40s (having left Russia in 1919 in flight from the Bolsheviks; and France in 1940, with his wife, Véra, and their son, Dmitri, in flight from the Nazis) as “the most delightful and thrilling” years of his adult life.
这是典型的纳博科夫式评论，既是认真的，又是开玩笑。这位小说家还说过“洛丽塔”是他与英语的“一场恋爱”，认为1940年代的10年（他于1919年逃离布尔什维克的俄国；1940年为逃离纳粹，和妻子薇拉、儿子德米特里一起离开法国赴美）是他成年后“最愉快、最令人兴奋”的岁月。
In his fascinating if sometimes meandering new book, “Nabokov in America,” Robert Roper argues that Nabokov’s “claim to greatness rests most solidly” on his American books, and gives us an evocative portrait of the novelist in the United States that’s pungent with small, revealing Nabokovian details.
罗伯特·卢珀的新著《纳博科夫的美国岁月》(Nabokov in America)妙趣横生，以纳博科夫式的精微细节、敏锐描述，为我们勾画出一幅小说家的生动画像，尽管行文有时略显松散琐碎。卢珀指出，纳博科夫的伟大无疑成就于他的美国著作。
Unavoidably the book retraces ground familiar to readers of what Mr. Roper — the writer of a book on Walt Whitman — acknowledges as the work of two “foundational biographers”: Brian Boyd, the author of a monumental two-volume study of the novelist (“Vladimir Nabokov: The Russian Years,” “Vladimir Nabokov: The American Years”), and Stacy Schiff (the author of the elegantly nuanced “Véra: Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov”). But Mr. Roper not only reminds us that Nabokov made the profound shift of learning to write in another language but also pushes to the foreground his argument that the novelist’s immersion in American life and assimilation of American literary traditions (the encounter between “his cut-glass sensibility and the strange and multicolored American material”) pushed his shimmering art to new heights.
卢珀先生曾写过一本沃尔特·惠特曼传记。他在本书中提到两位重要的传记文学作家，认为他们的著作是研究纳博科夫不可或缺的：布莱恩·博伊德的上下两卷鸿篇巨制《弗拉基米尔·纳博科夫：俄罗斯岁月》(Vladimir Nabokov: The Russian Years)，《弗拉基米尔·纳博科夫：美国岁月》(Vladimir Nabokov: The American Years)，以及斯泰茜·希夫的《薇拉：纳博科夫夫人》(Véra: Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov)。 他承认对于熟悉这两部著作的读者来说，他的书无可避免地略显重复。但是卢珀先生让我们意识到纳博科夫不仅在学术上改用另一语言，完成了一次意义深远的华丽转身；他还突出彰显了这位小说家如何通过对美国语言文化的充分浸染以及对美国文学传统的认同和融会使他在文学上更上一层楼：纳博科夫精致敏锐的感知力遇上美国千奇百怪、多彩多姿的社会素材，使他原本就闪烁迷离的艺术愈发熠熠生辉。
America, Mr. Roper suggests, liberated Nabokov and energized his imagination. His gifts might have rendered him unpopular in America — “his formal audacity, his psychological hard edge, his determination ‘never, never, never [to] write novels solving ‘modern problems’ or picturing ‘the world unrest.’ ” As it turns out, however, these attributes did not prove to be hindrances. And while Nabokov “yielded to no man in his savoring of American foolishness” — along with its vulgarity and lack of sophistication, which made the country an easy target for burlesque — he was anxious not to be regarded as a simple satirist, and his feelings about America were in fact immensely complicated.
卢珀先生认为，是美国解放了纳博科夫，进一步激发了他的想象力。他的才华也许会让他在美国不受欢迎——他在形式上过于大胆；心理上锋刃剑光；一再宣称“决不、决不、决不用小说解决‘现代问题’或反映‘世事动乱’。”结果却是这些特点并没有给他带来不利。纳博科夫对美国社会的愚蠢尽情把玩的同时并没有屈从于任何人的意愿——美国社会的庸俗和缺乏精致优雅极易使其成为讽刺嘲弄的对象——纳博科夫很喜欢被当做一位简单的讽刺作家。他对美国的情感实际上是非常复杂的。
The image is an incongruous one: this highly cultivated Russian aristocrat — “the beneficiary of a superb Old World education” and exquisitely fluent in three languages — driving about the country with Vera in an Oldsmobile, logging upward of 200,000 miles in his hunt for butterflies in places like the Grand Canyon and the Rocky Mountains. And yet, Mr. Roper notes, Nabokov genuinely fell in love with the American West. And in love, too, it seems, with what he called this “lovely, trustful, dreamy, enormous country,” which offered him and his family safe harbor from the horrors of European history and a safe place in which to rear his son.
卢珀呈现给我们的纳博科夫是一个很不协调的形象：一个极富教养的俄罗斯贵族，深谙三种语言、饱受旧文化的熏陶，和夫人薇拉开着一部奥斯莫比尔美国车奔跑于落基山脉和大峡谷等地扑捉蝴蝶；一部车一开便开上20多万英里。纳博科夫真心地爱上了美国西部，也爱上了这个“可爱的、值得信赖的、梦幻般的巨大国家”，卢珀如是说。正是这个国家给了他和他的家庭一个安全的港湾，使他们免受欧洲战乱之苦，让他们得以在安定的环境中抚养孩子长大。
Mr. Roper does an expert job of tracing Nabokov’s summertime peregrinations about the West and their translation into the pointillist descriptions of Humbert and Lolita’s travels in “Lolita” (which Christopher Isherwood once called “the best travel book ever written about America”). He offers some informed if not terribly original readings of that novel, which became a scandalous best seller and earned Nabokov riches and fame, as well as the wonderful (and for Nabokov, almost tender) 1957 novel “Pnin,” about a bedraggled émigré professor, and his radiant memoir “Speak, Memory,” which conjured his privileged childhood in Russia (a world about which he could talk of “the smallest and oldest of our gardeners”) and his post-Revolution wanderings in Europe.
卢珀先生精湛地描述了纳博科夫在美国西部的夏日旅行，并展示了他如何把这一经历移花接木到亨伯特和洛丽塔的旅行，在《洛丽塔》中以点画派画家的手法再现了美国西部风貌（克里斯托弗·伊舍伍曾把《洛丽塔》称作描写美国最棒的旅游书）。《洛丽塔》是一部以伤风败俗闻名，引起了轩然大波的最佳畅销书，为纳博科夫赚足了财富与声誉；1957年出版的《普宁》是另一部优秀小说，描写了一个可怜兮兮的俄国移民教授（在纳博科夫眼里这是一部近乎温情感伤的小说）；他的回忆录《说吧，记忆》精巧细腻地再现了他的贵族童年和俄国革命后流亡欧洲的日子。卢珀对这几部著作做了很有见地的全新解读。
Mr. Roper’s efforts to show how Nabokov grappled with American literary traditions — and incorporated them into his work — is somewhat more uneven. He makes an interesting case for parallels between “Lolita” and some of the captivity narratives (about girls and women abducted on the frontier) popular in the 18th and early 19th centuries, but is less convincing when it comes to drawing analogies between Nabokov’s work and that of, say, Melville and Salinger.
在展现纳博科夫如何应对美国文学传统，如何将其融入自己的作品方面，卢珀先生的努力显得有失均衡。比如他在《洛丽塔》和一些流行于十八世纪及十九世纪初叶的囚禁故事中（关于西部边陲被绑架的女孩或妇女）找到了有趣的相似之处；而对于纳博科夫与梅尔维尔、塞林格等作家的类比却显得苍白无力。
Despite such lapses and a rather hurried ending (with the Nabokovs traveling to Europe in 1959 for the first time in two decades, and eventually settling in Montreux, Switzerland), Mr. Roper has succeeded in making a persuasive case for the essential role America played both in shaping “Lolita” and helping to configure the gyroscopic spin of Nabokov’s later career.
该书的结尾也有些仓促（结束于纳博科夫夫妇20年来首次重返欧洲的 1959年之旅，并最终定居于瑞士的蒙特勒）。尽管如此，卢珀先生的书还是成功的。关于美国之于《洛丽塔》的重要性及美国在纳博科夫后来一发不可收的文学生涯中举足轻重的作用， 卢珀的论点是很有说服力的。
“The idea,” Mr. Roper writes of “Lolita,” “that his vision of his new book, his ‘brew of individual fancy,’ awaited only the injection of local-colorist details — Canadian or Mexican would have served as well — advances an idea that Nabokov liked to propagate, that he was on the Mozartian side of things, his imagination supreme, largely self-contained. In fact the American context was determinative. It fed meaning and amplitude into fancy’s brew.”
关于《洛丽塔》，卢珀写道，纳博科夫对“这本新书的设想， 以及他对这一‘个人想像的酝酿’一直在等待着地方色彩细节的注入——换言之，加拿大、墨西哥都有可能完成这一任务。这便进一步阐明了纳博科夫本人颇喜宣扬的观点，即他是莫扎特型，想像力至高无上，而且基本是独立自足的。事实上，美国背景起了决定性的作用，它为纳博科夫想像的酝酿注入了意义、丰富了内容。”