BOSTON — Deep skepticism here about whether taxpayers would ultimately foot the bill for the Olympics has doomed Boston’s bid to host the 2024 Summer Games and raised questions about whether any other major American city might be willing to take on the risk.
波士顿——纳税人最终是否会为奥运会买单？大家对此深怀疑虑。这个疑问不仅注定了波士顿2024年夏季奥运会的申办工作半途而废，而且提出了一个问题：是否会有别的美国大城市，愿意承担这种风险？
The United States Olympic Committee said Monday that it was withdrawing Boston as its proposed bid city because resistance among residents was too great to overcome in the short time that remained before the committee had to formally propose a bid city in mid-September.
周一，美国奥委会(United States Olympic Committee)表示将撤回波士顿的申办提名，因为来自当地居民的阻力太大，短期内难以克服，奥委会不得不在9月中旬正式提名另一个申办城市。
“We have not been able to get a majority of the citizens of Boston to support hosting the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games,” Scott Blackmun, the chief executive of the U.S.O.C., said in a statement as he raised the white flag. “Therefore, the U.S.O.C. does not think that the level of support enjoyed by Boston’s bid would allow it to prevail over great bids from Paris, Rome, Hamburg, Budapest or Toronto.”
美国奥委会首席执行官斯科特·布莱克门(Scott Blackmun)举起了白旗。“对于举办2024年奥运会和残奥会，我们一直没能获得多数波士顿市民的支持，”他在一份声明中表示。“另一方面，巴黎、罗马、汉堡、布达佩斯或多伦多的申办活动很出色，因此美国奥委会认为，波士顿凭借这样的支持度，不足以与它们抗衡。”
Mr. Blackmun said that the U.S.O.C. intended to move quickly to prepare a bid from another city. While he did not mention Los Angeles by name, many people involved in the Olympics expect Los Angeles to be the Plan B. It has successfully hosted the Olympics twice before and, perhaps most important, it already has some of the sports infrastructure, including an Olympic stadium, in place. Boston would have had to build at least three major stadiums from scratch.
布莱克门说，美国奥委会将迅速采取行动，准备提名另一个城市。虽然他没有提到洛杉矶的名字，但很多参与奥运申办的人都认为，这次会由洛杉矶顶上。该城市已经成功举办过两届奥运会，或许最重要的是，它已经拥有一些体育基础设施，其中包括一个奥林匹克体育场。波士顿则需要至少从头开始修建三座大型体育场馆。
Eric Garcetti, the mayor of Los Angeles, immediately expressed interest.
洛杉矶市长埃里克·加希提(Eric Garcetti)立刻对此表示了兴趣。
“I continue to believe that Los Angeles is the ideal Olympic city and we have always supported the U.S.O.C. in their effort to return the Games to the United States,” he said in a statement. “I would be happy to engage in discussions with the U.S.O.C. about how to present the strongest and most fiscally responsible bid on behalf of our city and nation.”
“我仍然认为洛杉矶是奥运会理想的主办城市，我们一向支持美国奥委会让奥运重返美国的努力，”他在一份声明中说。“我很乐意与美国奥委会讨论，如何代表我们的城市和国家，以财政上最负责的方式，开展最有说服力的申办活动。”
The mayor of Boston, Martin J. Walsh, had taken a different stance. While he had become the cheerleader in chief for bringing the Games here, he was constantly having to prod Boston 2024, the tone-deaf, private local organizing group, to be more transparent, release documents, scale back salaries and make other adjustments as the bid foundered.
波士顿市长马丁·J·沃尔什(Martin J. Walsh)之前采取的做法则有所不同。虽然他极力推动波士顿申办奥运，但在申办努力逐渐搁浅的过程中，他常常不得不督促由私营部门主导、且组织不力的当地组委会“波士顿2024”(Boston 2024)，提高透明度、公布文件、削减工资，并做出其他调整。
But on Monday morning, Mr. Walsh distanced himself from the bid completely. At a dramatic, hastily arranged news conference, he announced that if the U.S.O.C. demanded that he sign a host city contract by the end of the day Monday, he would not do so, acknowledging that this would kill Boston’s bid for the Games. He said he had wanted more time to review the financial aspects of the bid.
但周一上午，沃尔什完全不再支持申办。在一场颇具戏剧性且安排仓促的新闻发布会上，他宣布，如果美国奥委会要求他在周一结束之前签署一项申办城市协议，他不会签署。他承认这么做会让波士顿失去申办机会。他表示，自己原本希望能有更多时间，从财务方面评估申办奥运会一事。
“I cannot commit to putting the taxpayers at risk,” the mayor said. “If committing to signing a guarantee today is what’s required to move forward, then Boston is no longer pursuing the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games.”
“我不能让纳税人蒙受风险，”这位市长说。“如果想继续申办，今天就要签署保证书，那么波士顿将不再申办2024年奥运会和残奥会。”
It was not clear whether the mayor knew that the U.S.O.C. was preparing to pull the plug on Boston before he made his defiant announcement. But after the U.S.O.C. did terminate the bid, the mayor told reporters that he thought “they might have made up their mind before my press conference today.”
尚不清楚在以挑衅的姿态宣布该决定之前，这位市长是否了解，美国奥委会正在准备停止波士顿的申办。但在美国奥委会终止波士顿的申办后，这位市长对记者表示，他认为“他们可能在我今天举行新闻发布会之前，就已经拿定了主意”。
Either way, the mayor was positioning himself as the voice of fiscal sanity in seeking to protect taxpayers from having to pay for cost overruns, which polling all along has suggested was the central concern of a majority of Boston residents.
无论是哪种情况，这位市长寻求避免纳税人为失控的成本买单，都为自己塑造了一种在财政上头脑清醒的形象。一直以来，都有民调显示，这正是大部分波士顿民众担心的核心问题。
In a statement after the U.S.O.C. withdrew, the mayor said he believed that bringing the Games here would have brought long-term benefits, but added that “no benefit is so great that it is worth handing over the financial future of our City, and our citizens were rightly hesitant to be supportive as a result.”
在美国奥委会取消了波士顿的申办提名后，这位市长发表声明称，他相信举办奥运会将为这里带来长远的收益，但他又接着表示，“什么利益都不值得让我们交出本市未来的财政收支，因此我们的民众理所当然地不愿意支持”。