Otto Dix, in a half-light, glowers from a self-portrait, jaw set, puffing on a cigar, looking infuriated. “What took so long?” he seems to ask, youthful as ever.
在昏暗的灯光下，自画像中的奥托·迪克斯(Otto Dix)咬着牙，目露愠色。抽着雪茄的他看上去怒气冲天。依旧年轻的他仿佛是在问：“为什么用了这么久？”
They keep coming back, these works of art lost to the Nazis, like bottles washed ashore. Three years ago, a small stash of sculptures turned up when a front-loader was digging a new subway station in Berlin.
这些当年落入纳粹手里的艺术品正在源源不断地浮现，就像被冲上岸的瓶子一样。三年前，一台前端式装载机在柏林为一座新地铁站进行挖掘作业时，发现了少量隐藏在那里的雕塑作品。
Now some 1,500 pictures, an almost unfathomable trove, have surfaced; some were revealed in a news conference on Tuesday in Augsburg, Germany. From the first few blurry online reproductions they seem to include paintings by Matisse and Courbet, Franz Marc and Max Liebermann, Marc Chagall, Max Beckmann and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, discovered in the Munich apartment of an old man named Cornelius Gurlitt whose father, Hildebrand, a dealer during the Nazi era, assembled a collection of the Modernist art that Hitler called “degenerate.”
现在又出现了约1500幅画作，这批宝藏的价值难以估量。其中部分作品在周二德国奥格斯堡举行的新闻发布会上得到展示。从网上最早几幅模糊的翻拍图片来看，新发现的画作似乎包括了马蒂斯(Matisse)、库尔贝(Courbet)、弗朗兹·马尔克(Franz Marc)、马克斯·利伯曼(Max Liebermann)、马克·夏加尔(Marc Chagall)、马克思·贝克曼(Max Beckmann)和恩斯特·路德维格·基希纳(Ernst Ludwig Kirchner)的作品。这些画是在一个名叫廓尼琉斯·古尔利特(Cornelius Gurlitt)的老年男子位于慕尼黑的公寓里发现的。古尔利特的父亲希尔德布兰特(Hildebrand)是纳粹时期的一名画商，收集了一批被希特勒(Hitler)认为“堕落”的现代派艺术作品。
Among the very first goals of the Nazis was to purge German museums and ransack private collections. Perversely, they stockpiled the modern art they hated, some to sell abroad in exchange for hard currency. Hildebrand was one of the dealers whom Joseph Goebbels picked for this task. Some art they paraded in an exhibition of shame. The show ended up a blockbuster, infuriating the Führer. After that, thousands upon thousands of confiscated works disappeared.
纳粹最重要的目标之一就是：净化德国的博物馆，洗劫私人藏品。但有违常理的是，他们囤积了自己厌恶的现代派艺术作品，为了换取硬通货，还要将部分作品卖到国外去。希尔德布兰特正是约瑟夫·戈培尔(Joseph Goebbels)为这一任务挑选的画商之一。他们将部分艺术品展出是为了加以批判，但展览后来却引起了轰动，激怒了元首。在那之后，成千上万件被没收的作品就不见了踪影。
But as the years have gone by, art continues to be found, refusing oblivion.
但随着时间的流逝，不愿被遗忘的那些艺术品，又陆续被人们发现。
Dix has returned, defiantly. He was despised by Hitler not just because he drew and painted in a spiky, gnarled, ghoulish way that decried the ravages of World War I and spoke to Weimar anxiety, but because his art mocked the German idea of heroism. The Munich self-portrait conveys a pride that seems ready to vanquish an enemy that had not quite appeared on the scene when Dix painted the work in 1919 but that both he and his art would outlast.
迪克斯也以倔强的姿态回归了。迪克斯为希特勒所不容，不仅是因为他的画尖锐、粗粝、令人毛骨悚然，描绘了一战带来的破坏，展现了魏玛共和国的焦虑，还因为他的作品嘲讽了德国对英勇的定义。在慕尼黑发现的这幅自画像是迪克斯1919年创作的，从这幅画中传递出的一种骄傲来看，迪克斯似乎已经准备好战斗，去打败一个当时尚未露面的敌人。而最后，他和他的作品，生命都比那个敌人更长。
What’s especially moving about finds like the one in Munich, salvaged from the Nazi ruins, is not just that they survived all these years or that they might include lost masterpieces, although they rarely do. It is not even that they represent tokens of lost lives, millions of them. It is that they overcame what Hitler in another context once referred to as “the big lie,” an untruth “so colossal,” he said, that people could not help falling for it.
慕尼黑发现的这些作品是从纳粹制造的废墟中抢救出来的，像这样的发现，尤其令人动容的不仅是它们经历了多年风雨得以保存，也不仅是因为它们之中可能有失落的杰作，尽管偶尔的确会有。甚至不是因为它们象征着数百万逝去的生命，而是因为它们战胜了希特勒在另一个场合曾提及的“大谎言”。希特勒当时说，假话假到“一定程度”，人们就会情不自禁地相信。
The big lie in this case involved the depravity of modern art. The lie was meant to turn death and destruction onto the world of art. But while paintings, drawings and sculptures are sadly fragile, the ideals they represent — the best ones, anyway — aren’t. And so the painted woman by Matisse, fan in lap, a string of pearls around her neck, a veil draped over her hair, is a testament to art’s indefatigable ambitions.
这里的大谎言指的是现代艺术的堕落。这个谎言意在摧毁、消灭艺术世界。尽管各种绘画作品和雕塑作品很脆弱，这一点令人遗憾，但它们代表的那些最美好的理想却并不脆弱。因此，马蒂斯笔下那个膝上放着一把扇子、颈上戴着珍珠项链、戴着头巾的女子就证明了艺术不屈不挠的理想。
The work looks to be from the 1920s, when Matisse lived in Nice as the Sultan of the Riviera. But it’s timeless. Pattern on pattern, the picture nestles benign Cubism into a luxuriant portrait of deceptive domestic tranquillity and sexual poise. The woman, stern face framed by a square collar, fingers nervously knitted, is all soft curves and implicit apprehension, as if awaiting some secret lover. Once upon a time, Matisse’s Nice pictures were dismissed as decorative fluff. Not now. The portrait speaks to the strength of its maker and his enduring contribution to the catalog of beauty.
这幅画似乎出自20世纪20年代，当时马蒂斯住在尼斯，人称“里维埃拉的苏丹”(Sultan of the Riviera)。但它却是永恒的。经过图案的堆叠，平淡无奇的立体派变成了繁复浓密的肖像画，画面以看似宁静的家居环境和主人公的性姿态为主题。那位女子不苟言笑，衬着面孔的是她方形的衣领，手指拘谨地握在一起，她的线条柔和却暗藏不安，就仿佛是在等待一个秘密情人。马蒂斯在尼斯的创作一度被人认为是他的败笔，不过是装饰画。但现在则不同。这幅肖像画证明了画家的优势所在，以及他对艺术之美的恒久贡献。
During this first frantic flush of publicity, before all the news inevitably turns to price tags and provenance, it’s still possible to appreciate the whims of fortune, which can trump even humanity’s most demonic ambitions. Who knows whether these pictures were preserved out of greed or fear or love? What matters in the long run is only that they made it. Artists tend to produce art as a vain bulwark against time, a gamble on posterity; and for many of the artists whom Hitler loathed, art was an explicit attempt to prevent him from getting the last word. Jews in the Warsaw Ghetto stored thousands of documents in buried milk cans for that same reason, and the discovery of those cans has provided history with the great archive of a lost people.
这些作品引发的第一轮舆论狂潮还在继续，在所有的媒体不可避免地将注意力转向价格和来源之前，我们还是可以来感叹命运的力量，它甚至能战胜人类最邪恶的野心。谁能知道，这些画作得以保存下来究竟是出于贪婪、恐惧，还是对它们的热爱。最终，真正重要的只有：它们幸存下来了。艺术家们在创作时往往徒劳地希望作品的价值能超越时间，这是对后人下的赌注；而对希特勒憎恶的许多艺术家而言，艺术创作是为了阻止希特勒掌握最终发言权的一种直接努力。在华沙犹太区生活的犹太人，将成千上万份文件藏在牛奶罐里埋在地下，也是为了同一个目的。那些牛奶罐的发现为我们提供了大量的历史文献，记录了那些不知所踪的人留下的故事。
“And so they are ever returning to us, the dead,” as the German novelist W. G. Sebald wrote in “The Emigrants,” recalling a forgotten Alpine climber, whose remains a glacier suddenly gave up many decades after he had disappeared. Gustave Courbet’s “Village Girl With a Goat” is back from the wilderness now, having dropped off the map not during the Nazi era but sometime after an auction in 1949, ending up among the Gurlitt horde. She’s by all appearances a familiar Courbet heroine, insolent and voluptuous, fleshy, puffy and pink-cheeked, clutching the legs of the sniffing goat she absently cradles, her gaze turned to something out of the picture we can’t see.
德国小说家W·G·泽巴尔德(W. G. Sebald)在《异乡人》(The Emigrants)中，回忆起一个被人遗忘的阿尔卑斯山登山者时写道，“这样一来，那些死去的人们，就能不断回到我们的生活中。”在那名登山者失踪了几十年之后，他的遗骨突然暴露在冰川之上。居斯塔夫·库尔贝(Gustave Courbet)的《乡村女孩与山羊》(Village Girl With a Goat)如今也从荒野回归，它并不是在纳粹时期消失的，而是在1949年一场拍卖会之后，成为了古尔利特的收藏。从画面来看，这位乡村女孩是库尔贝作品中常见的主人公：粗旷、性感、丰满、臃肿，有着粉红色的脸颊，她心不在焉地抱着一只正在嗅闻的山羊，抓着它的腿，她的眼光望向画外某处我们看不到的地方。
A client, perhaps, or maybe a mark.
或许是一名主顾，又或许是一个记号。
“Landscape With Horses” has resurfaced, too. The Nazis confiscated works like this one by Franz Marc despite the fact that he had earned an Iron Cross and died a hero during World War I. He wrote to the painter Wassily Kandinsky in 1914 that he believed the war would “purify Europe.” The Third Reich’s men still found Marc’s abstract style beyond the pale. This landscape survives his own delusions as well as Hitler’s campaign.
《风景与马》(Landscape With Horses)也再度出现，这是弗朗兹·马尔克的一幅作品。纳粹们没收了一些这样的作品，尽管马尔克得到过“铁十字勋章”(Iron Cross)，并已在一战中英勇战死。他1914年写信给画家瓦西里·康定斯基(Wassily Kandinsky)，说他相信这场战争将会“净化欧洲”。但第三帝国(Third Reich)的男人们还是觉得，马尔克的抽象风格超出了他们可接受的范围。这幅风景画不仅超越了他自己的妄想，也躲过了希特勒发起的运动。
And so, too, does “Melancholy Girls” by Kirchner, an image of a naked, ravaged woman whose face is scarred by lines like the bark of a birch tree. Kirchner was another casualty of his era. So devastated by the Nazis’ attack on modern art, he destroyed many of his own works. Then he took his own life.
同样地，人们还找到了基希纳的《忧郁的女孩》(Melancholy Girls)。这幅画描绘了一个饱经摧残的裸体女子，她的脸上布满了疤痕似的线条，仿佛桦树的树皮。基希纳是他那个时代的又一个牺牲品。纳粹对现代艺术的攻击令他崩溃，他在亲手毁掉自己的许多作品后，自杀了。
The bigger truth will out.
更大的真相即将显露。