BERLIN — The mysterious discovery of 1,400 artworks apparently collected by a German dealer under the Nazis continued to ripple disturbingly through Germany and the art world, prompting reports of a deal with Hitler’s propaganda chief and calls for Germans to do more to return lost works to Jewish heirs.
柏林——1400幅显然由纳粹手下一名德国画商收集的艺术品神秘现世，此事继续在德国和艺术界引起阵阵令人不安的涟漪，催生了关于画商与希特勒(Hitler)的宣传头目交易的报道，也让人们纷纷呼吁德国方面采取更多措施，把遗失作品归还给犹太继承人。
The Bild newspaper reported on Sunday that the dealer — an art connoisseur named Hildebrand Gurlitt who supported artists banned by the Nazis but also dealt in stolen art with Hitler’s propaganda chief, Joseph Goebbels — arranged with Goebbels in 1940 to pay 4,000 Swiss francs for 200 pieces of “degenerate art,” the Nazi term to describe many modernist European works.
据德国《图片报》(The Bild)周日报道，这个名为希尔德布兰特·古尔利特(Hildebrand Gurlitt)的画商兼艺术鉴赏家虽然支持一些遭到纳粹禁止的艺术家，但也和希特勒的宣传头目约瑟夫·戈培尔(Joseph Goebbels)买卖窃取的艺术品。1940年，他和戈培尔达成交易，花4000瑞士法郎购买了200幅“堕落艺术品”，这个词汇被纳粹用来形容许多欧洲现代主义艺术家的作品。
In southwestern Germany, meanwhile, the police said they had recovered 22 “valuable” artworks after a call from someone who gave an address just outside Stuttgart to go there and retrieve them.
同时，德国西南部的警方表示，他们接到某人打来的一个电话，那人给了他们一个地址，让他们去斯图加特城外追缴艺术品，自那之后，他们已经发现了22件“价值连城”的艺术品。
Deidre Berger, head of the American Jewish Committee in Germany, called on the German government to move decisively to clear up ownership questions surrounding the art.
美国犹太人委员会(American Jewish Committee)驻德国分部负责人戴德丽·贝格尔(Deidre Berger)呼吁德国政府采取决定性的行动，澄清艺术品的所有权问题。
“It is a disgrace that laws are still in existence that justify injustice,” Ms. Berger said in a statement, referring to Nazi-era laws that leave the ownership status of some confiscated art unclear. She also noted the poignancy of having the art come to light as Jews gathered in Berlin this weekend to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Kristallnacht, the beginning of Hitler’s murderous persecution of the Jews.
贝格尔在一份声明中说，“为不公正行为辩护的法律依然存在，这是一种耻辱。”她指的是纳粹时期的法律，此类法律使一些没收艺术品的所有权变得不明不白。她还指出，这些艺术品曝光的时机是一个辛辣的讽刺，因为这个周末，犹太人正聚集在柏林纪念水晶之夜(Kristallnacht)爆发75周年，水晶之夜是希特勒开始凶残迫害犹太人的日子。
Paris Match published what it said was a photograph of Hildebrand Gurlitt’s son, Cornelius, who reportedly kept the 1,400 works stashed for decades in a Munich apartment belonging to his family. A neighbor of Mr. Gurlitt’s in Salzburg, Austria, confirmed that the picture was that of the elderly man.
《巴黎竞赛》(Paris Match)杂志刊登了一幅照片，该杂志说，照片里的人是希尔德布兰特·古尔利特的儿子廓尼琉斯(Cornelius)。据报道，他把1400幅作品藏在了慕尼黑的一套公寓里，时间长达数十年，这套公寓归他的家族所有。廓尼琉斯在奥地利萨尔茨堡的一名邻居确认，照片里的人正是上了年纪的廓尼琉斯。
Der Spiegel magazine also reported receiving a typewritten and signed letter last week from Cornelius Gurlitt that listed the return address as the same apartment where the art was found. In the letter, the writer praised “your spiritually rich and nobly minded” magazine, but asked that the Gurlitt family name no longer be mentioned in it.
《明镜》周刊也报道称，他们于上周收到了廓尼琉斯亲手打字并签名的一封信，上面列出的回信地址正是发现艺术品的那套公寓。发信人在信中赞扬《明镜》“是精神富有、境界高尚”的杂志，同时又请求杂志不要再提起古尔利特家族的名字。
The large trove of art was discovered by authorities in February 2012, but became public knowledge only in recent days, stunning the art world and setting off a scramble to establish ownership. Authorities have publicly identified just a handful of the works.
这一大笔艺术宝藏是当局于2012年2月发现的，不过直到近日才得公开。它震惊了艺术界，引发了一场争夺所有权的混战。当局只公开确认了少数作品的归属。
In its report on the Gurlitt-Goebbels contract, Bild included a list of the 200 works that were to change hands, including ones by, among others, Picasso, Chagall and Gauguin.
在关于古尔利特与戈培尔之间合约的报道中，《图片报》刊出了一份清单，上面列出了200件将要易手的作品，其中包括毕加索(Picasso)、夏加尔(Chagall)、高更(Gauguin)等人的作品。
After World War II, Hildebrand Gurlitt reported that most of his collection and all of his inventory had been destroyed in the 1945 bombing of Dresden. Twenty to 25 works listed as belonging to him were included in an exhibition that toured the United States in the mid-1950s. He died in a traffic accident in 1956.
二战后，希尔德布兰特·古尔利特报称，自己的大部分藏品和全部清单都已毁于1945年的德累斯顿大轰炸。上世纪50年代中期的一次美国巡展当中，有20至25幅作品被列在希尔德布兰特·古尔利特名下。1956年，他在一起交通事故中去世。
The police in the southwestern state of Baden-Württemberg said on Sunday that they had received a call from a resident of Kornwestheim, about six miles north of Stuttgart, which sent officers to a house there on Saturday, where they recovered 22 artworks.
德国西南部巴登-符腾堡州警方周日表示，他们接到了斯图加特以北约6英里（约合10公里）的科恩韦斯特海姆的一名居民打来的电话。周六，警察根据电话线索赶往那里的一处房屋，发现了22件艺术品。
The police did not identify the caller, but Bild named the man as Nikolaus Frässle, the brother-in-law of Cornelius Gurlitt. The police said that the caller had said that news reports led him to fear for the safety of the works. The police took the works “to a safe place,” the statement said. Bild said Mr. Frässle was married to Cornelius Gurlitt’s sister, identified in official archives as Nicoline Benita Renate Gurlitt, who was born in Hamburg in 1935, three years after Cornelius. Bild said she had died but provided no further details.
警方没有说出打电话的人的身份，《图片报》则称那人名为尼古劳斯·弗拉索(Nikolaus Frässle)，是廓尼琉斯·古尔利特的妹夫。警方说，打电话的人表示，相关新闻报道让他对那些作品的安全感到担心。警方在声明中称，已经把那些作品转移到了“安全的地方”。《图片报》称，弗拉索娶了古尔利特的妹妹，根据官方档案，古尔利特的这个妹妹名为尼古莲·贝妮塔·雷娜特·古尔利特(Nicoline Benita Renate Gurlitt)，于1935年在汉堡出生，比古尔利特小三岁。《图片报》称古尔利特的妹妹已去世，但没有给出进一步的细节。
The contract with Goebbels listed Hildebrand Gurlitt as living in Hamburg at the time. At some point during World War II, the family moved to or near Dresden, and fled farther south to Bavaria as the war was ending.
同戈培尔签署的合同显示，希尔德布兰特·古尔利特当时居住在汉堡。二战中的某个时候，古尔利特一家搬去了德累斯顿，或是德累斯顿附近的地方。战争接近尾声时，古尔利特一家再次南逃，搬去了巴伐利亚州。
The elder Gurlitt was interrogated by the Allies, and his collection — listed as a few hundred works — was kept until 1950, when it was returned to him. The origins of those pieces — and of the far larger cache found in the Munich apartment of Cornelius Gurlitt — is unclear. German authorities have said that research is needed before they can publish a list, but museums and the heirs of collectors who were stripped of their works by the Nazis have urged swift action to return artworks to their rightful owners.
盟军曾对老古尔利特进行审问，并扣留了他的收藏品，直到1950年才还给他。根据当时记录，他的收藏包括几百件作品。这些藏品的来源尚不清楚，在廓尼琉斯·古尔利特的慕尼黑公寓发现的规模远胜于此的藏品也是如此。德国当局已表示，他们要到研究完成之后才能公开清单，但一些博物馆和一些藏家的继承人敦促德国快速采取行动，将艺术品归还给它们的合法所有人。这些藏家的藏品遭到了纳粹的掠夺。
The Sunday edition of the Frankfurter Allgemeine newspaper, meanwhile, reported that a painting by Max Liebermann, one of the few of the 1,400 works to be publicly identified, was listed in Germany’s official databank for art seized by the Nazis. The piece, depicting two men riding horses on a beach, is sought by the descendants of David Friedmann, who had been a sugar refiner in Breslau, a former German city now known as Wroclaw in Poland.
与此同时，《法兰克福汇报》(Frankfurter Allgemeine)周日版报道称，马克斯·利伯曼(Max Liebermann)的一幅作品已被官方数据库列为纳粹掠夺的艺术品。那1400幅作品中只有少数几幅的具体情况得到了公开，这幅作品便是其中之一。这幅作品画的是两名在海滩上骑马的男子，戴维·弗里德曼(David Friedmann)的后人称这是他们家的财产。弗里德曼是布雷斯劳的一名炼糖商，布雷斯劳当时是德国的一座城市，今属波兰，名为弗罗茨瓦夫。