Walking slowly to the windows facing the meadow of green that is Central Park, Gary Barnett slips into salesman mode as he spreads his arms wide, embracing the sweeping bird’s-eye view he has from the 87th floor of his shimmering skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan.
加里·巴内特(Gary Barnett)慢慢地走到了正对中央公园(Central Park)的窗前，瞬间切换成了推销员模式。他站在自己位于曼哈顿中城的一栋熠熠生辉的摩天大楼的87层，面对脚下青翠的绿地伸展双臂，拥抱着眼前鸟瞰公园的景象。
Noting a visitor’s gasp at the stunning vista, he smiles. “That’s what we want. We want the ‘Oh, wow,’ ” he says.
巴内特注意到一位参观者见到这惊人景象后吸了一口气，脸上露出了微笑。他说：“这就是我们想要的，那种‘哇！’的反应。”
That ‘oh wow’ factor is part of a 6,250-square-foot, full-floor apartment in his soaring skyscraper, One57, complete with a soon-to-arrive master bedroom tub carved from a single piece of Italian marble. The apartment comes with a hefty price tag of $67 million. Or, put another way, nearly $11,000 per square foot. That’s Per. Square. Foot.
这种“哇！”的反应属于6250平方英尺（约合580平方米）的全层公寓套房。这个套房位于他高耸入云的摩天大楼One57里，主卧室里马上就会配上用一整块意大利大理石挖成的浴缸。这个套房的价格高达6700万美元（约合4.1亿元人民币），换句话说，每平方英尺价格将近1.1万美元。注意，是每平方英尺。
Too rich? Well, there is another, similar apartment a few floors lower that has a number of potential buyers circling it that’s “only $55 million,” Mr. Barnett says before pausing. “I didn’t really say, only $55 million?” He laughs. “It’s all relative.”
太贵了？好吧，比这间公寓略低几层楼，还有一间差不多的公寓，有几位潜在的买家也正在关注，“才5500万美元”。巴尼特停顿了一下后说，“我刚才不会说‘才5500万’了吧？”他大笑。“都是相对的嘛。”
And relatively speaking, it is practically a bargain. From the perspective of the overseas buyer, it may very well be. Even as the prices of some of the city’s newest and hottest buildings like One57 stretch into the stratosphere, luxury apartments in Manhattan remain relatively cheap compared to other cosmopolitan cities around the world. That fact is attracting more global buyers to New York.
相对而言，它实际上的确称得上便宜。站在外国买家的角度，可能尤其如此。尽管纽约某些最新、最抢手的大厦，如One57的价格已经高到直插云霄，但是曼哈顿的高端公寓与世界各地的其他都市相比，价格仍然相对低廉。这一点正在吸引全球买家前来纽约。
Last year, an apartment in Monaco’s curvaceous Tour Odéon sold for $8,850 a square foot. A well-off buyer paid slightly less, $8,779 a square foot, for an apartment in the sleek Frank Gehry-designed Opus Hong Kong.
去年，曲线曼妙的摩纳哥奥黛昂大厦(Tour Odéon)的一间公寓卖到了每平方英尺8850美元。一个富有的买家支付了略低于前者的价格，购买了弗兰克·盖里(Frank Gehry)设计的项目傲璇(Opus Hong Kong)中的一间公寓，每平方英尺8779美元。
And in West London, the average price for the 86 apartments in One Hyde Park has been more than $9,500 a square foot, according to research from the British property consulting firm Knight Frank.
英国房地产咨询公司莱坊(Knight Frank)的研究显示，在西伦敦，海德公园一号(One Hyde Park)的86套公寓均价超过每平方英尺9500美元。
At One57, the activist hedge fund king William A. Ackman is reportedly part of an investment group that is paying more than $90 million, or about $6,666 per square foot, for the 13,500-square-foot duplex on the 75th and 76th floor, referred to as the “Winter Garden,” because of its 2,500-square foot-glass-enclosed space that can house either a garden or a swimming pool. One57 is practically a steal at an average price of more than $6,000 a square foot. Another soaring tower on the east side of Midtown, 432 Park Avenue, is asking for $6,894 a square foot, based on its latest offering plan.
在One57，据报道，对冲基金大亨威廉·A·艾克曼(William A. Ackman)参与了一个投资团，要以9000多万美元的价格，约合每平方英尺6666美元，购买位于75层和76层，面积有13500平方英尺的复式公寓。这套复式公寓被称为“冬园”(Winter Garden)，因为其中2500平方英尺的玻璃封闭空间，可以容纳一座花园，或一个游泳池。由于均价是每平方英尺6000美元出头，One57的价格实在是很便宜。位于曼哈顿中城东端的另一座高耸的摩天楼，公园大道432号(432 Park Avenue)，按照其最新售价方案计算，均价高达每平方英尺6894美元。
This new crop of super-luxurious New York high rises — skyscrapers so tall they needed approval from the Federal Aviation Administration — are attracting Wall Street moneymen, company executives and foreigners alike. Analysts estimate the percentage of foreign buyers in Manhattan real estate has jumped to about 30 or 40 percent of total sales, or double long-running averages.
纽约新建的这一批超豪华高层建筑，吸引了华尔街(Wall Street)金融界人士、公司高管，以及外国买家。这些新楼都非常之高，以致于需要经过联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)的批准。分析人士估计，曼哈顿房地产中外国买家在总销量中所占的比例已经剧增到了约30%到40%，也就是长期平均水平的两倍。
At new developments like One57, foreigners make up about half the buyers. Among the purchasers are the Canadian businessman Lawrence S. Stroll and Silas F.K. Chou, a native of Hong Kong, business partners who took the fashion label Michael Kors public last year. Buyers from China have bought about 15 percent of the building, including one corporation that bought four apartments.
在One57这样的新开发项目里，买家中约有一半是外国人。买家中包括加拿大商人劳伦斯·S·斯特罗尔(Lawrence S. Stroll)，还有生于香港的曹其峰(Silas K.F. Chou)，这两位商业伙伴去年引领时尚品牌迈克尔·科尔斯(Michael Kors)上市。这栋楼里15%的公寓是中国买家购买的，其中一家公司购买了四套公寓。
Manhattan has always attracted a number of well-to-do globe-trotters who would happily spend a couple of million, maybe even $10 million, for a snazzy pied-à-terre on the Upper East Side. But as increased numbers of global billionaires have set their sights on Manhattan, there has been an absolute explosion in prices for top-of-the-market luxury apartments.
曼哈顿历来都能吸引很多游走全球的阔绰人士，他们乐于花费几百万美元，甚至1000万美元，在上东城(Upper East Side)购置一个临时落脚的雅致居所。然而随着越来越多亿万富翁把目光投向曼哈顿，高端奢侈公寓的价格绝对出现了爆炸性上涨。
One reason for that is simply a low supply of sleek apartments available for the rich and famous. There is not a lot of suitable, empty space in Manhattan for those sorts of developments, which can easily require more than a decade of planning and construction.
出现这种现象的原因很简单，可供富人、名人挑选的光鲜公寓楼供不应求。在曼哈顿，适合开发这种项目的闲置空间并没有多少，而这种项目的规划和建设很轻易就能花掉十多年时间。
With the continued economic malaise across Europe and heightened political unrest in hot spots around the world, foreign and American billionaires alike are seeking safer places to park their assets. New York, say analysts, looks like a pretty safe bet these days.
由于欧洲各国经济不振，而世界其他热点地区的政治动荡又出现加剧，外国和美国的亿万富翁们，都在寻求将他们的资产放在更安全的地方。分析人士说，这个时期纽约似乎是一个颇为安全的选择。
“We’re building the equivalent of bank safe deposit boxes in the sky that buyers can put all their valuables in and rarely visit,” said Jonathan J. Miller of the real estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel.
房地产估值公司米勒萨缪尔(Miller Samuel)的乔纳森·J·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)说，“我们是在天空里修建类似银行保管箱的东西，买家们放置贵重物品后，并不会常常过来。”
For luxury apartments, New York is the new hot market for global buyers. “We are just swamped,” says Elizabeth L. Sample, a senior global real-estate adviser and associate broker for Sotheby’s International Realty. “Normally, we’re in the Hamptons in the summer. But all of August, we were here with foreign buyers. We’re working with 10 different foreign buyers right now.”
就高端公寓而言，纽约新近成了全球买家眼中的热门市场。苏富比国际物业(Sotheby’s International Realty)全球房地产高级顾问、副经纪人伊丽莎白·L·桑普尔(Elizabeth L. Sample)说，“我们简直忙得不可开交。往常在夏天，我们会到长岛的汉普顿去。但今年整个8月，我们都在这里和外国买家在一起，现在正在和10个不同的外国买家合作。”
When asked where they were coming from, Ms. Sample rattled off a mile-long list that started with an “influx of people from London,” along with buyers from Brazil and Israel. “The Chinese are back and so are the Japanese. They’ve been in and out of the market and they’re more prominent now,” she notes. There are also “many princes and kings” from the Middle East looking to buy and, she says with a flourish, “We still have the Russians.”
在被问及买家都来自哪里时，桑普尔口中奔涌出了一串长达一英里的名单。开始是“人们从伦敦涌来”，接着还有巴西、以色列的买家。她还提到，“中国人回来了，日本人也回来了。他们曾经来了又走，但现在他们对市场的影响变得更显著了。”也有来自中东地区的“很多王子和国王”，他们有购买意向。她还露出夸张的表情说，“还有俄国人。”
Manhattan has always attracted its fair share of foreign buyers. In the 1980s, for instance, Japanese investors snapped up small studios and one-bedroom apartments, seeking the steady income from renters.
曼哈顿一直都能吸引一定份额的外国买家。例如，在20世纪80年代，日本投资者大手笔买下了许多单间和一居室公寓，试图从租客身上取得稳定的收入。
But today’s rich globe-trotters, say analysts, are looking for something else. First, many want for a safe place to park their assets. They want an investment that, over time, is not likely to lose its value and may, in fact, become more valuable. At 432 Park Avenue, a mystery buyer paid a reported $95 million for an 8,255-square-foot apartment. At more than $11,500 a square foot, the apartment does not include a large storage unit in the basement (an additional $190,000) or one of the 76-square-foot wine cellars also available to buyers ($320,000).
然而分析人士说，今天活跃在全球的富人们，是在寻求不同的东西。首先，很多人希望找一个安全的地方放置资产。他们想要一个从长期来看不大会贬值，甚至可能还会升值的投资项目。在公园大道432号，一位神秘买家据称花下9500万美元，购买了一套8255平方英尺的公寓，每平方英尺超过11500美元。这套公寓不包括地下室里宽大的储物间（另需19万美元），也不包括可供买家使用的76平方英尺的酒窖（32万美元）。
Designed by Rafael Viñoly, 432 Park will be the tallest residential building in the Western Hemisphere when it is completed, soaring nearly 1,400 feet above Midtown. Sales started this year and so far, about 50 percent of the building is in contract. One-third of the buyers have come from overseas, primarily Britain, South America, China, the Middle East and Russia.
由拉菲尔·维诺里(Rafael Viñoly)设计的公园大道432号，建成后将成为西半球最高的住宅楼，从1400英尺（约合427米）的高度俯瞰曼哈顿中城。销售已从今年开始，已经有约50%的公寓签约。三分之一的买家来自海外，主要是英国、南美、中国、中东和俄罗斯。