In most places, greenhouses are structures used to grow plants. In New York City, they’re used to grow apartments.
在大多数地方，温室是用来生长植物的地方。而在纽约市，它们是用来“生长”公寓的。
From around the late ’60s through the early ’90s, many apartment dwellers fortunate enough to have a balcony or terrace put it under glass to make their patch of outdoor space habitable all year long.
从60年代末前后，一直到90年代初，许多公寓住户都非常幸运地能拥有一座封闭在玻璃内的阳台或露台，构成一处全年都很宜居的户外空间。
They called the enclosed area a “temporary structure” (though dismantling it really wasn’t part of the plan) to exploit a building code loophole, closed several years ago, that didn’t count such an addition when calculating floor area ratio, a figure that helps determine how big a building can be. And code enforcement is about to get more rigorous.
他们把这片围起来的空间称为“临时建筑”（只不过这个“临时建筑”是根本不打算拆除的），目的就是为了利用建筑法规的一个漏洞，即这类增建部分不会被计算到容积率当中。而容积率从一定程度上决定了一座建筑能建多大。几年前，这个漏洞已经被堵上了。法规的执行也将变得更严格。
The label “greenhouse” was as misleading as the label “temporary structure.”
“温室”的标签同“临时建筑”一样，是具有迷惑性的。
“People may have put their pot plants there or a potted plant there, but the point was really to create more indoor space,” said Howard L. Zimmerman, an architect who specializes in exterior facade restoration. He estimates that there are thousands of these greenhouses or, as the Department of Buildings calls them, sunrooms, in New York City.
“人们可能会把盆栽植物放到那里，但是温室真正的意图在于创造更多的室内空间，”霍华德·L·齐默曼(Howard L. Zimmerman)说，齐默曼是一名建筑师，专业从事建筑外立面的修缮。他估计在纽约市内，这样的温室——或纽约市楼宇局(Department of Buildings)所称的“阳光房”(sunroom)，有成千上万个。
“For years, architects were putting these glass enclosures on setbacks, knocking down walls to incorporate them into the existing unit and really abusing the building codes,” Mr. Zimmerman said.
“多年来，建筑师们纷纷在外墙的缩进处建造这些由玻璃围成的空间，然后打掉墙，将它们并入已有的单元里，充分利用建筑法规的漏洞。”齐默曼说。
The structures needed to be waterproofed and installed properly, registered with the buildings department and issued permits as permanent structures. Few were. As supposed temporary structures they were not supposed to have heating or cooling systems. Many did.
按道理来说，这些建筑需要经过防水处理、妥善施工，并在楼宇局登记、获批成为永久建筑。但在实际中很少这样做。作为临时建筑，它们不应安装取暖或制冷系统。但是很多温室都安装了这样的设施。
These lapses have long been easy to overlook because of a greenhouse’s undeniable wow factor, especially in the case of an ornate high-end model with curved metal and glass and a $500,000 price tag. The low end: $10,000.
长久以来，这些不合规矩的小地方很容易被忽视，因为不可否认的是，温室具有令人惊艳的效果，尤其是那种装饰华丽的高端类型，配备了曲面的金属和玻璃幕墙，标价达到50万美元（约合人民币306万元）。而低端的则1万美元（约合人民币6万元）即可。
Apartments with glass enclosures command a premium of $25,000 to $50,000, according to Gina Kuhlenkamp, an associate broker with Coldwell Banker Bellmarc, who has sold several apartments with greenhouses at Turtle Bay Towers where, atypically, they were part of the developer’s original design and in full compliance with all the appropriate city departments.
房地产公司Coldwell Banker Bellmarc的助理经纪人吉娜·库伦坎普(Gina Kuhlenkamp)说，带有玻璃房的公寓可以获得2.5到5万美元（约合人民币15万元到31万元）的溢价。库伦坎普在海龟湾大厦(Turtle Bay Towers)卖了好几套带温室的公寓。一反常态的是，在海龟湾大厦，温室的建设原本就在开发商的设计方案当中，完全符合相关市政部门的规定。
“Greenhouses can be gorgeous and sexy and a great addition to an apartment,” said Ronni Arougheti Hart, a managing director of Terra Holdings, the parent company of Halstead Property. “A balcony or terrace is something you can only use a couple of months a year. But when it’s enclosed it can be a den or a bedroom. You have additional square footage that’s weatherproof, and an outside feel without the soot and the noise.
“温室可以建得很漂亮、迷人，成为一套公寓上好的补充部分。”Terra Holdings的总经理罗尼·阿罗盖蒂·哈特(Ronni Arougheti Hart)说，Terra Holdings是Halstead Property地产公司的母公司。“阳台或露台这种设施，你一年只能使用几个月，但如果把它围起来，就可作为一间私室或卧室。这样你既能拥有一个不受天气影响的额外空间，又可以找到露天的感觉，还不会受到烟尘和噪音的困扰。”
“But,” Ms. Hart continued, “if something goes wrong, it can open a Pandora’s box.”
“但是，”哈特话锋一转，“一旦出了问题，那就可能会打开潘多拉的盒子。”
The concern about something going wrong may explain a new rule by the buildings department that will be incorporated into facade inspections starting in 2015: An additional heated or cooled space made by a permanent balcony or terrace enclosure will be considered noncompliant if it doesn’t have a permit. “Under certain circumstances the structure would be required to be dismantled,” said Alexander Schnell, a spokesman for the buildings department.
对于出问题的担忧，或许能够解释楼宇局出台的一项新规定，它将从2015年开始在外立面检查工作中落实。在新规定下，如果未经批准，不得将永久阳台或露台围住，建造带有取暖、制冷设施的额外空间，否则将视为违规。“在某些情况下，这些建筑将被勒令拆除。”楼宇局的发言人亚历山大·施内尔(Alexander Schnell)说。
Some might say that the rule is late in coming. Many greenhouses in the city, often installed without a permit or under the guise of “temporary structure,” are showing their age; some are leaking water into neighboring apartments, causing many headaches and many dollars in damage. Now come the disputes about who’s to blame and who’s to pay.
有些人可能会说，这个规定来得太迟了。纽约市有许多温室，当初往往未经批准、或是在“临时建筑”的幌子下建造的，现在已经老化了；有些温室已经开始往相邻的公寓漏水，造成了许多麻烦和金钱损失。于是现在，关于谁来负责、谁来赔偿的纠纷就出现了。
“Sometimes the greenhouses were put up with co-op board approval and sometimes without board approval, and sometimes no one can tell if there was or wasn’t approval, because many years have elapsed and the person who put in the greenhouse was several sellers ago,” said Steven D. Sladkus, a real estate lawyer at Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz.
“有些温室的建造是经过合作公寓管委会批准的，有些则没有。有时候，谁也不知道究竟有没有获批，因为年代太久远，房主都换了好几个，不知最初建温室的房主是谁了。”Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz律师事务所的房地产律师史蒂文·D·斯拉德克斯(Steven D Sladkus)说。
The real problem, of course, is when a shareholder doesn’t know a greenhouse wasn’t approved, doesn’t know a greenhouse wasn’t constructed or installed properly, and suddenly the neighboring units are under water. Mr. Sladkus represents an Upper West Side building that has just such a situation. “The shareholder didn’t install the greenhouse and now she’s saying, ‘Co-op, it’s your problem.’ ” Mr. Sladkus said. “And the co-op is saying, ‘No, it’s your problem.’ ”
当然，真正的问题在于，有的合作公寓股东并不知道某处温室当初没有获批、也没得到妥善施工，然后邻居家就突然被水淹了。斯拉德克斯的客户之一——上西区的一座楼盘就遭遇了这种情况。“那座温室并不是现任户主建的，现在她说，‘管委会，这是你们的问题，’”斯拉德克斯说，“而管委会则说，‘不对，是你的问题。’”
A co-op board on Sutton Place is battling two shareholders who built greenhouses on the building’s parapet walls. “The city’s buildings department has found them to be illegal in both structure and material, and we’ve been issued a violation,” said Stan Bell, the president of the co-op board, adding that the greenhouses have caused leaks and damage to the bricks. “We’ve attempted to negotiate, but the shareholders don’t want to take them down,” he said. “If we have to go to litigation, it will take several years and it will be very expensive. I’m concerned that it will affect sales in the building.”
萨顿广场(Sutton Place)的一个合作公寓管委会正在与两名股东死磕，这两位住户都在大楼的压檐墙上建造了温室。“纽约市楼宇局认定，他们的建筑和建材都不合法，责任被追究到了我们头上，”该管委会的主席斯坦·贝尔(Stan Bell)说，他还说，他们的温室已经造成漏水，损坏了砖墙。“我们找股东谈过，但是他们不肯把温室拆了，”他说，“要是真打起官司，那可能要花上好几年，而且诉讼费也会很高。我担心这样会影响楼盘的销售。”
Mr. Zimmerman recently consulted with a co-op where, years ago, a shareholder bought a penthouse apartment with a rooftop greenhouse from a well-known playwright. He wrote one of his works in that very greenhouse, he told the starstruck buyer.
齐默曼最近还在为另一个合作公寓管委会当顾问。多年前，有位股东从一位有名的剧作家那里买下一套顶层公寓，公寓屋顶上有一处温室。剧作家告诉那个被明星光环镇住的买家，说自己有一部剧就是在温室里写的。
“It’s a debate whether the structure is legal,” Mr. Zimmerman said. “We haven’t been able to find any filings.”
“争论的焦点在于那个建筑是否合法，”齐默曼说，“我们还没有找到任何文件。”
Now, the greenhouse is obstructing access to an area of the building that needs attention. The shareholder, he said, has agreed to pay for the additional cost of working over and around the enclosure.
而现在，这栋大楼有个地方需要养护，而温室挡住了路。他说，股东已经同意支付额外费用，对温室及其周围施工。
Paying for expensive repairs may be just the beginning for shareholders who are deemed liable. Mr. Zimmerman said: “Those greenhouses that they paid a premium for when they bought their apartments, in some instances, co-op boards are telling them, ‘This was never filed with the buildings department. This is an illegal structure. Not only are we going to make you take it down, but you’re not going to put it back up because the D.O.B. isn’t going to grandfather something that wasn’t legal to begin with.’ ”
对于那些被认定为有责任的股东，支付昂贵的修缮费或许只是开始。齐默曼说：“他们当初买下公寓的时候，就因那些温室支付了溢价；而现在，有些股东被管委会告知，‘这个温室没有楼宇局的审批文件，是违法建筑。我们勒令你把它拆除，而且你不能把它再建起来，因为楼宇不会保护一开始就不合法的建筑。’”
There is considerable potential for adding to the bad feelings between boards and greenhouse-owning shareholders. “If a co-op has central heating and air-conditioning and it’s included in the maintenance, now you have the additional greenhouse space that is drawing on the building’s resources,” said Ms. Hart of Terra Holdings. “Every other unit owner is subsidizing it.”
管委会和拥有温室的股东之间，还可能会因为其它诸多纠纷闹得更加不愉快。“如果合作公寓内配有中央取暖或制冷设施，费用已经算进了物业费，而你有一个额外的温室空间，这个空间会占用大楼的资源，”Terra Holdings的哈特说，“那么其他单元的业主都得为你买单。”
Should a co-op issue more shares? Should greenhouse owners pay more maintenance because they’ve increased the footprint of their apartment?
合作公寓是否应该发放更多股份？既然拥有温室的业主占用了更多资源，那么他们是否应该支付更多的物业费？
Then there’s the issue of floor area ratio. “If a building is allowed 10,000 square feet of buildable square footage, and you build 9,000 square feet of brick and mortar and 1,000 feet of greenhouses, that’s fine,” Mr. Zimmerman said. “The building is within its zoning envelope.”
除此之外，还有容积率的问题。“如果一个楼盘获批的建筑面积是1万平方英尺（约合929平方米），而你建了9000平方英尺（约合836平方米）的砖房，和1000平方英尺（约合92.9平方米）的温室，这没有关系，”齐默曼说，“这个楼盘符合区划要求。”
But the building could have had its own plans for the extra space. “Those greenhouses could keep a board from building a facility like a gym that all the residents could enjoy,” Mr. Sladkus said.
但是，假如楼盘管理方对这个额外的空间有自己的打算，情况就不一样了，“那些温室会阻碍管委会建造健身房这类惠及所有居民的设施。”斯拉德克斯说。