NEW YORK — New York City’s ultraluxury real estate frenzy — with its sky-piercing condominium towers and $100 million price tags — has finally come to an end.
纽约——纽约城中以直冲云霄的公寓楼和标价高达1亿美元的价签为特征的超豪华房地产狂潮，终于告一段落了。
Even with every conceivable amenity, the eight- and nine-digit prices attached to trophy homes with helicopter views and high-end finishes never bore much relation to actual value. Rather, a class of superrich investors primarily drove the market, choosing high-priced real estate as their asset of choice, because it was less volatile than other investments and they could use shell companies to hide their identities.
那些拥有居高临下的视野和高档装潢，能够彰显身份地位的住宅，售价动辄高达八九位数，即便配套设施应有尽有，其价位也与实际价值相去甚远。这个市场主要是被一群超级富豪投资者炒热的，他们把高价位房地产作为资产配置的首选，因为相较于其他投资，其波动性不那么大，而且他们可以利用空壳公司隐藏自己的身份。
But today a four-year construction boom aimed at buyers willing to spend $10 million or more has flooded the top of the market just as global market turmoil has caused wealthy investors pull back and the federal government has moved to scrutinize some all-cash transactions.
但现在，为迎合乐于出价1000万美元或更多钱的买家而延续了四年的建筑热潮，已经让市场处于极度供过于求的状态。与此同时，富有的投资者因为全球性市场动荡而压缩了开支，联邦政府则开始对一些全现金交易进行审查。
It’s not just the volatility of financial markets that has big spenders sitting on their wallets. Other global trends that have put the lid on high-end spending include China’s tightened restrictions on capital outflows, uncertainty surrounding Britain’s decision to leave the European Union, lower oil prices curbing wealth in the Middle East, and tax increases and other measures that have driven up property transaction costs in some countries.
大富豪们之所捂紧钱包，不仅仅是因为金融市场剧烈动荡。其他一些全球性趋势也让高端消费受到了遏制，比如：中国收紧了对资本外流的限制；英国决定脱欧带来了不确定性；较低的油价束缚了中东地区的财富；在一些国家里，提高税率等举措加大了房地产交易成本。
As the volume of sales at the uppermost level has dwindled, some sellers have made drastic price cuts and some projects have been delayed.
由于超高端项目的销量出现萎缩，一些卖家已经大幅降低了售价，一些项目则被推迟了。
Developers of the skyscraper planned for 111 West 57th St. said they would postpone marketing materials and events for condominiums in the building, some priced as high as $57 million, until next year.
将在西57街111号拔地而起的那座摩天大楼的开发商表示，他们会把为楼内的共管公寓制作促销宣传品、举办促销活动的计划推迟到明年。该项目一些公寓标价高达5700万美元。
At 432 Park Ave., the tallest residential tower in the Western Hemisphere, full-floor apartments originally listed for $78 million to $85 million have been split in two and priced at approximately $40 million each.
公园大道432号大厦是西半球最高的住宅楼，其整层公寓起初标价7800万至8500万美元，现在却被一分为二，每一半售价约为4000万美元。
In and around West 57th Street, known as Billionaires’ Row, “it’s not just slow — it’s come to a complete halt,” said Dolly Lenz, a broker to the superrich. She attributed the lack of activity along the Midtown corridor to oversupply, little differentiation among glassy ultraluxury units and peak pricing. “That’s a death knell,” she said.
西57街俗称亿万富豪街，在这条街上及其周围，“销售不仅仅是在放缓，而是完全停滞了，”为超富人群服务的经纪人多莉·伦茨(Dolly Lenz)说。她认为，这段曼哈顿中城走廊地带之所以死气沉沉，是因为供给过剩，带玻璃幕墙的超豪华公寓单元高度同质化，而且定价实在太高。“这简直就是敲响了丧钟，”她说。
New York is not alone. After the global financial crisis hit in 2008, investors turned to high-end real estate around the world as a safe place to park their millions. But since the middle of 2014, prime property values have dropped in Paris, Singapore, London, Moscow and Dubai, said Yolande Barnes, director of world research at Savills, a global real estate firm. “These cities have acted as a store of wealth,” said Barnes, who sees the current decline in values as “an inevitable setback that you get after a long bull run.”
并非只有纽约出现了这种情况。全球金融危机于2008年来袭后，投资者开始把世界各地的高端房地产当成他们可观财富的避难所。但全球性房地产机构第一太平戴维斯(Savills)全球研究部负责人约兰德·巴尔内斯(Yolande Barnes)说，自从2014年年中以来，在巴黎、新加坡、伦敦、莫斯科和迪拜，最优质的房地产的价格都有所下降。“这些城市汇聚着大量财富，”巴尔内斯说。他把当前的价格下挫视为“长期上涨之后不可不免的回落”。
Though the market still has a long way to go before fire-sale pricing sets in, the declines may indicate that a ceiling has been reached. And even as sales over $10 million drop off in Manhattan, the bulk of the market remains robust, with competition particularly heated for homes priced for less than $3 million.
尽管当前的定价远远不能以清仓大甩卖来形容，但降价或许意味着价格已经触碰到了天花板。在曼哈顿，当售价1000万美元以上的房产销量出现下降的时候，市场的整体表现却颇为强劲，标价低于300万美元的住宅尤为抢手。
In the first half of the year, contracts signed for Manhattan residences costing $10 million or more dropped by about 18 percent, to 107 units, down from 130 a year ago, according to data compiled by Olshan Realty.
据地产经纪商Olshan Realty编纂的数据，今年上半年，售价1000万美元或以上的曼哈顿住宅的签约量，从去年同期的130套下降约18%至107套。
In the Miami area, 216 homes and condos priced at $10 million were on the market at the end of June, a 43 percent jump from a year ago, according to data compiled by Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell Realtors. “By anyone’s measurement, that’s more than you’d like to have,” said Ron Shuffield, president of that firm, pointing out that only 26 houses and condos in that price range sold in the 12 months through June.
据艾斯林格地产(Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell Realtors)编纂的数据，在迈阿密地区，截至6月末，标价1000万美元或更高的在售别墅和共管公寓数量比一年前激增了43%。“不论用什么标准来衡量，增量都过大了，”该公司总裁罗恩·萨菲尔德(Ron Shuffield)说。他指出，在截至6月份的12个月里，该价格区间的别墅和共管公寓只卖出了26套。
“The global misperception was that the demand would be endless,” said Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel, a real estate appraisal firm. “The reality was the market was not as deep as what was thought.”
“全世界都误以为需求永远不会枯竭，”房地产评估公司米勒-萨缪尔(Miller Samuel)的总裁乔纳森·J·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller) 说。“事实却是，市场并不像人们以为的那样大。”
Developers who cling to their original asking prices are either rejiggering their product or casting a wider net to reach buyers. At the Woolworth Building in downtown Manhattan, where the top floors are being converted to condos, ornate interiors are being toned down in favor of a more contemporary look to appeal to a wider pool of buyers.
固守原有要价的开发商，不是正改造自己的产品，就是在广泛撒网，寻找买家。在曼哈顿下城，伍尔沃斯大厦(Woolworth Building)的上部正被改造成共管公寓，为了吸引更多卖家，华丽的内部装潢被刻意淡化，取而代之的是更为现代的面貌。
To find buyers for Le Palais Royal, a $159 million mansion in Hillsboro Beach, Florida, that has $7 million worth of 22-karat gold leaf and a 27-foot waterfall, Joseph Leone, the developer, has flown to London, Los Angeles, Dubai and Singapore to put together a team of brokers to sell the property rather than hiring just one firm. “I believe clients are looking for something unique,” Leone said. “They are still here, but you need to change your strategy. You need to be creative.”
位于佛罗里达州希尔斯波罗海滩的皇家宫殿(Le Palais Royal)是一座标价1.59亿美元的豪宅，以价值700万美元的22k金箔做装饰，还配有一道27英尺高的瀑布。为了给皇家宫殿找到买主，开发商约瑟夫·利昂(Joseph Leone)飞往伦敦、洛杉矶、迪拜、新加坡等地，组建起销售该房产的经纪人团队，而非只雇佣一个经纪公司。“我相信客户正在寻找某种独一无二的东西，”利昂说。“他们还在那里，但你需要改变自己的策略。你需要有创意。”
While prices at the high end continue to set records, that’s largely because many of the deals that are closing now involve contracts that were signed as long as 18 months ago, when many of the buildings were still under construction and the market was stronger.
高端房产的的价格还在创新高，但那主要是因为，许多现在才完成的交易，合同最早可能在18个月以前就签好了。那时候，许多建筑还处于施工阶段，市场也更坚挺一些。
Developers insist that sales at the top are continuing, just at a slower pace than in recent years.
开发商们坚称，高端市场的销售还在继续，只是速度不像近些年那样快。
Miller of Miller Samuel was less optimistic.
米勒-萨缪尔评估公司的米勒却没那么乐观。
“It takes a while for sellers, whether in new development or resales, to capitulate to sudden changes in the market,” he said. “It’s not that there aren’t any buyers at this level. It’s that there aren’t buyers willing to pay 2014 prices.”
“无论是新房还是二手房的卖家，都要花一点儿时间才能接受市场的突然变化，”他说。“在这个阶段不是说没有任何买家。只不过没有买家愿意接受2014年的价格。”