In terms of marketing tone, the commercial real estate industry has long played the quiet cousin to the brasher residential business. While apartments are routinely sold using splashy, multifaceted ad campaigns, commercial brokers and developers have favored lower-key, brochure-based approaches.
就市场营销手段而言，住宅类房产行业比较前卫大胆，而商业类房产则一直扮演着少言寡语的表兄角色。前者运用博人眼球的多方位广告策略，有条不紊地售出一套套公寓；后者的经纪人和开发商则青睐比较低调的、以宣传册为主的营销手段。
But the two branches of the family may be growing closer. In recent months, the marketing teams for some New York office buildings have decided to get the word out by deploying the type of stylish Web sites once used only by luxury condominiums.
不过，房地产大家族里的这两支血脉，可能渐行渐近了。近几个月来，纽约一些写字楼的营销团队也决定利用风格入时的网站来扩大宣传。而这种方式一度只有豪华公寓才会采用。
Unlike the Web sites of office buildings past, which tended to be bare-bones and buried deep within a landlord’s corporate home page, this new crop stands alone and crackles with animation, exuberant language and videos.
以前的写字楼宣传页面往往深藏于开发商公司主页之下，内容少得可怜；而这支新生力量的做法全然不同，不仅单独建站，还大量使用动画、视频以及活力十足的文案。
And by publicizing details like where telecom cables enter the building, these sites add transparency to a business that can seem clubby and secretive.
此外，通过公布一些诸如写字楼通讯电缆接入位置这样的细节，这些网站为有时显得神秘而排外的商业房产项目增添了透明度。
“Lunches with brokers is an old-school way of getting your message out,” said Grant Greenspan, a broker and principal at the Kaufman Organization, a landlord that has set up Web sites for two of its buildings, 100-104 Fifth Avenue and 550 Seventh Avenue. But, he added, “it’s only as good as the group of brokers who you perceive to have the clients.”
“要想扩散消息，跟经纪人共进午餐是一种老派的方式，”格兰特·格林斯潘(Grant Greenspan)说，“但它顶多也只能把消息扩散到这些经纪人的客户那里。”格林斯潘是考夫曼公司(Kaufman Organization)的一名经纪人兼负责人，这家开发商为其第五大道100-104号和第七大道550号的两处楼盘建立了网站。
By introducing buildings to the public online to generate demand, Mr. Greenspan said, “you get clients going to their brokers and saying, ‘Why aren’t you showing me this building?’ ”
通过在网上直接向大众宣传楼盘来创造需求，格林斯潘说，“你就能让客户们主动去询问他们的经纪人，‘为什么不给我看看这栋楼的资料？’”
The site for 100-104 Fifth Avenue, a pair of joined, early-20th-century buildings near Union Square that Kaufman co-owns with Invesco Real Estate, was also useful in chronicling the $15 million renovation that occurred after the development team bought the property out of bankruptcy in 2010 for $94 million.
第五大道100-104号的这处楼盘，是一对相互连通的20世纪早期建筑，位于联合广场(Union Square)附近，由考夫曼公司与景顺房地产公司(Invesco Real Estate)共同所有。此楼盘的网站上逐年记载着当它的前业主在2010年破产时，这两家开发商如何斥资9400万美元将其收购，并花费1500万美元对它进行了整修。
The renovation, which took two years, included adding a fire safety system and six elevators and redesigning a pair of lobbies. All of this is described in a colorful, animated timeline on the Web site, 100-104fifth.com, as are the specifics about those telecom cables.
整修耗时两年，增加了消防安全系统和六部电梯，并重新设计了两座大堂。楼盘网站100-104fifth.com用彩色动画时间轴展示了整修的全过程，楼内通信电缆的规格详情也同样是以动画手段展现的。
The Kaufman Organization credited the site with helping to fill the 270,000-square-foot building quickly. It is at 98 percent occupancy today, up from 60 percent when the landlord bought it.
考夫曼公司表示，此网站促进了这处27万平方英尺（约合2.5万平方米）的楼盘很快被租满。在他们当初购买这处房产时，它的出租率只有60%，而如今已经高达98%。
According to Mr. Greenspan, all six tenants signed there since 2010 said the site had played a major role in piquing their interest. Those tenants include Yelp, the online review business; Apple’s iAd, an advertising network; and Net-a-Porter, a women’s apparel retailer. They pay rents ranging from $45 to $60 per square foot, Kaufman said.
据格林斯潘说，2010年后签约的六家租户都表示，主要是这个网站引发了他们对这处楼盘的兴趣。这些租户包括在在线点评服务商Yelp、苹果公司的广告网络iAd，以及女装零售商Net-a-Porter。考夫曼公司透露，这些租户的租金在每平方英尺45美元（约合4.18美元/平方米）到60美元（约合5.57美元/平方米）之间。
Similarly, at 550 Seventh Avenue, which Kaufman recently began managing for Adler Group, a new Web site is being used to rebrand the 12-story building in the garment district, where fashion tenants have historically held sway.
考夫曼公司同样也为第七大道550号建了一个网站，这是它最近开始替阿德勒集团(Adler Group)管理的一座位于服装区(garment district)的12层大楼；以前，服装区一直是时装公司的天下。
The Web site, 550seventhave.com, may surprise property owners who tend to be tight-lipped about their tenants. It shows the directory in the building’s lobby, revealing that Lilly Pulitzer, Donna Karan International and Oscar de la Renta have offices inside.
550seventhave.com这个网站，可能会让那些对租户信息一贯守口如瓶的业主感到吃惊。网站展示了大堂内的地址铭牌，你可以看到Lilly Pulitzer、Donna Karan International和Oscar de la Renta这些时装公司都在这里开设了办公室。
The site, introduced in October, is already paying off. An 11,000-square-foot space on the 10th floor is expected to be leased this month to a software company, Mr. Greenspan said, adding that the $30,000 cost of making both sites, plus the hours logged by a full-time worker, had been worth every penny.
该网站于2012年10月推出，目前已经初显成效。一家软件公司将从本月开始租用11000平方英尺（约合1000平方米）的10楼空间。格林斯潘说，建这两个网站的成本是3万美元，再加上一名全职网络管理员的薪水，这笔钱花得物有所值。
If Web sites “facilitate renting the spaces 60 or 90 days sooner, they make all the sense in the world,” he said.
他说，如果网站“能促使办公间提早60天或90天被租出，那么建立它们就是千真万确的明智之举”。
Some major New York landlords, like the Chetrit Group, have no online presence. And even when Web sites do exist, they can be a bit stolid, offering little more than the year the building was completed, its architect and its total square footage, as with the General Motors Building, owned by Boston Properties. Brokers say that when a high-rise has existed for years and is one of Manhattan’s prized addresses as well, it may not have to promote itself online.
纽约一些像Chetrit Group这样的房地产巨头并没有在线展示的举措。即便有些公司确实建了网站，其内容也显得平淡乏味，除了竣工时间、建筑师姓名和总面积之外，很少再有其它信息。波士顿地产(Boston Properties)拥有的通用汽车大厦(General Motors Building)就是如此。经纪人们说，如果一座高层大厦已是历史悠久，又位于曼哈顿的黄金地段，它可能就没有必要在网上宣传自己了。
A new office building must do more, especially when it hasn’t even come out of the ground yet. In those cases, a Web site is essential to allow tenants to visualize their future home, said Christopher V. Albanese, president of the Albanese Organization, a Long Island-based developer. These sites tend to be extremely eye-catching and could easily be mistaken for ones intended to sell multimillion-dollar condos.
而新写字楼则必须进行更多宣传，特别是在它刚刚开工修建的时候。长岛开发商Albanese Organization的总裁克里斯托弗·V·艾博尼斯(Christopher V. Albanese)说，在这样的情况下，网站就必不可少了。它可以帮助客户在脑海中勾勒出未来的家的样子。这些网站极为吸引眼球，人们很容易误以为它们出售的是价值数百万美元的公寓。
In November, the Albanese Organization unveiled 510w22.com, for 510 West 22nd Street, a planned 170,000-square-foot office building in West Chelsea. The centerpiece of the artful Web site is a four-minute video narrated by the architect Rick Cook, which brims with dramatic music and soaring shots of the adjacent High Line.
去年11月，Albanese Organization为西二十二街510号项目推出网站510w22.com。这栋办公大楼位于西切尔西(West Chelsea)，计划修建的总面积为17万平方英尺（约合1.58万平方米）。它的网站艺术感十足，其重头戏是一段4分钟长的视频，由建筑设计师里克·库克(Rick Cook)担任讲述者，伴随着激动人心的音乐和楼盘附近轻轨(High Line)的俯拍镜头。
Creating such a Hollywood-caliber product, which includes renderings that normally would not have been commissioned, doubled the building’s marketing budget — “but without it, tenants might think that this was just some ordinary building, and it really isn’t,” Mr. Albanese said.
制作这样一个好莱坞级别的宣传片，其中还包含一些通常不会制作的效果图，使得营销预算增加了一倍——“但如果没有它，租户们可能就会以为我们的项目不过是一栋普通大楼，而它并不是，”艾博尼斯说。
Also, financing for the $150 million project cannot be secured until the building is 30 percent leased, he said, making a dynamic marketing tool all the more important.
此外，只有大楼30%的面积被租出去，这个1.5亿美元项目的资金才可得以保证。所以，制作一个动态市场营销工具就更加重要了，他说。
Though online videos for commercial real estate are not widespread, they are gaining in popularity.
虽然运用网上视频来推广商业房产的做法还并不普遍，但它的人气正在增涨。
The Web site for 7 Bryant Park, a 28-story office building that Hines is developing on Avenue of the Americas, features a two-minute video. A piano tinkles; the camera swoops.
7 Bryant Park是一栋正由地产公司Hines开发的28层写字楼项目，位于美洲大道(Avenue of the Americas)上。其楼盘网站上有一段两分钟长的视频，中间穿插着俯拍镜头和清越的钢琴声。
The site, 7bryantpark.com, introduced last winter, has not led to leases yet, but George C. Lancaster, Hines’s senior vice president of communications, said to expect similar branding for future projects. Web sites are “the first place anybody goes these days to shop for clothes or office space,” he said.
7bryantpark.com网站于去年冬天上线，尚未为公司带来任何租赁业务，但该公司主管宣传沟通的高级副总裁乔治·C·兰开斯特(George C. Lancaster)表示，他们未来的项目也打算采用类似的品牌推广方法。“如今，人们要买衣服或寻找办公场所，去的第一个地方就是网站，”他说。
Brian Lindvall, a partner at Dbox, which made Hines’s video and the Web site for 510 West 22nd Street, agreed. Commercial assignments are coming in more frequently, he said, including one for the International Gem Tower, an Extell Development Company project at 50 West 47th Street.
身为Dbox的合伙人之一，布赖恩·林德瓦尔(Brian Lindvall)赞同这一看法。Dbox就是为Hines公司制作宣传视频、并为西二十二街510号项目制作网站的公司。林德瓦尔说，他们接到的商业房产项目的任务正变得越来越多，其中包括国际宝石大厦(International Gem Tower)，这是Extell开发公司(Extell Development Company)位于西四十七街50号的一个项目。
Multimedia Web sites “have kind of been a residential tactic for a while,” said Mr. Lindvall, who has worked on apartment projects for Rudin Management and Forest City Ratner. “I think that relaying square footage and location is not enough to convey what a building represents.”
多媒体网站“被用来宣传住宅项目已经有一段时间了”，林德瓦尔说，他曾为鲁丁管理公司(Rudin Management)和森林城市拉特纳公司(Forest City Ratner)的公寓项目制作过作品。“我认为，只介绍房产的面积和位置，是无法充分传达出建筑所代表的含义的。”
Like sites for condos, commercial real estate sites can seem to hawk lifestyles rather than places to put sofas or desks.
就像公寓楼的宣传网站，商业房产似乎也可以兜售某种生活方式，而不只是放置沙发或办公桌的地方。
For example, businesses are urged to lease space at 837 Washington Street, under construction in the meatpacking district, because of its proximity to the new Whitney Museum and an Apple store — and, 837washington.com says, “because when fashion arrived, restaurateurs and hoteliers followed.”
例如，一处位于肉类加工区(meatpacking district)华盛顿街(Washington Street)837号的在建楼盘，力促客户租用他们的空间，理由是在它附近有新落成的惠特尼博物馆(Whitney Museum)和一家苹果(Apple)专卖店——而且“当时尚出现时，餐馆和酒店经营者也会追随而来”，837washington.com网站上如是说。
The six-story, 55,000-square-foot, $100 million project is expected to be completed in 2014. Asking rents for the offices are $100 per square foot, said Paul E. Pariser, co-chief executive of Taconic Investment Partners, which is developing the building with Thor Equities.
据房地产投资公司Taconic Investment Partners的联合首席执行官保罗·E·帕里泽(Paul E. Pariser)介绍，这座总面积达55000平方英尺（约合5100平方米）、耗资1亿美元的六层建筑预计将于2014年竣工；租金为每平方英尺100美元（约合每平方米9.29美元）。Taconic正在跟Thor Equities地产公司合作开发这个项目。
According to Mr. Pariser, who sold 111 Eighth Avenue to Google in 2010, the tech companies that will most likely rent the space care about the hipness of their neighborhood. “They don’t want some stuffy image that says, ‘I have a Madison Avenue address,’ ” he said.
帕里泽曾于2010年将第八大道111号出售给谷歌公司(Google)。他认为，最有可能在这里租房的高科技公司，比较关心街区的周边环境是否新潮时髦。帕里泽说：“这些公司不希望自己的形象显得古板，就像‘我们在麦迪逊大街有间办公室’一样沉闷。”
If Web sites help landlords leapfrog brokers to some degree by taking their message to the masses, the brokers don’t seem overly concerned.
如果说，这些网站帮助业主一定程度上越过了经纪人，直接将信息传递给大众，经纪人们对此似乎还并不太担心。
Bruce Mosler, co-chairman of the brokerage firm Cushman & Wakefield, said he was glad technology had advanced enough to portray large offices compellingly online. He added that condos were ahead of the game only because apartments are simpler to depict.
高纬物业(Cushman & Wakefield)房产经纪公司的联合主席布鲁斯·莫斯勒(Bruce Mosler)说，他很高兴技术已经先进到可以在网上引人入胜地推介大型办公室了。他还补充说，公寓之所以走在了这个行列的前面，只不过是因为公寓比较容易描述。
Besides, brokers still need to be at the negotiating table when a lease is signed. “It will allow the product to get to the market more quickly,” Mr. Mosler said. “This town recognizes the value of what brokerages and brokers can provide.”
网络宣传之余，在租赁合同的签订过程中，经纪人仍需参与协商谈判。“这会让产品更快地走上市场，”莫斯勒说，“在纽约，经纪公司和经纪人所提供的价值是受到尊敬的。”