NEW YORK — Three Brooklyn men were charged on Wednesday with aiding the Islamic State, the terrorist organization that controls large parts of Iraq and Syria and has been actively recruiting young people from around the world to its fight.
纽约——周三，三名布鲁克林男子被控为恐怖组织伊斯兰国(Islamic State)提供支持。该组织现控制着伊拉克和叙利亚的大片领土，且一直在积极地从全世界招募年轻成员加入战斗。
One of the men was arrested at Kennedy International Airport, where he was trying to board a flight to Istanbul and then planned to travel to Syria to join the battle, according to the government.
美国政府称，其中一名男子是在肯尼迪国际机场(Kennedy International Airport)被捕的，当时他正试图登上一个前往伊斯坦布尔的航班，并计划随后前往叙利亚参与军事行动。
At least two of the men had threatened to carry out attacks on targets in the United States if they failed in their attempt to travel overseas, according to the government.
政府称，其中至少两名男子曾经发出威胁，称如果不能前往海外，将对美国的目标发动袭击。
“This is real,” William J. Bratton, the New York City police commissioner, said at a news conference. “This is the concern about the lone wolf.”
“这是真实存在的威胁，”纽约市警察局长威廉·J·布拉顿(William J. Bratton)在新闻发布会上说。“就是我们所担心的独狼式袭击。”
The arrests came one week after the authorities in London said they were looking for three teenage girls who left their homes and were suspected of traveling to Syria — part of a growing pattern of people leaving their friends and families in the West and seeking to join the ranks of the jihadists.
美国逮捕这三名男子的一周前，伦敦当局表示，他们正在搜寻三名离家出走的少女，她们可能是去了叙利亚——这是越来越多的西方人离开朋友和家人、加入圣战的例子之一。
Although it is believed that thousands of people from Europe have traveled to Syria in recent months, Commissioner Bratton said the arrests of the three Brooklyn men represented the first time the authorities had made public a case linking New Yorkers to the effort by the Islamic State to draw people under its banner.
近几个月据信已有数千名欧洲人前往叙利亚，但布拉顿局长称，逮捕这三名布鲁克林男子的行动，是伊斯兰国招募行动中首次有纽约市民涉案。
In a speech earlier Wednesday, James B. Comey, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said the threat posed by sympathizers of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, was escalating.
在周三早些时候的一次演讲中，联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)称，伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）的同情者所构成的威胁正不断升级。
“I have homegrown violent extremist investigations in every single state,” he said in the speech at a meeting of the National Association of Attorneys General.
“我们在每个州都展开了对暴力极端分子的调查，”他在全美检察官协会(National Association of Attorneys General)的会议上发表演讲时说。
The Islamic State, Mr. Comey said, “is putting out a siren song through their slick propaganda through social media that goes like this: ‘Troubled soul, come to the caliphate, you will live a life of glory, these are the apocalyptic end times, you will find a life of meaning here fighting for our so-called caliphate, and if you can’t come, kill somebody where you are.'”
科米称，伊斯兰国“正在通过巧妙的社交媒体宣传发布一首充满诱惑的歌，歌中是这么唱的：‘不安的灵魂，来哈里发国吧，你将过上荣耀的生活，这是末日时代，你将为我们所说的哈里发国而战，从中找寻到有意义的生活，如若来不了，就在你所在的地方杀个人。’”
“That is a message that goes out to troubled souls everywhere, resonates with troubled souls — people seeking meaning in some horribly misguided way,” he added.
“这条讯息扩散到了世界各地不安的灵魂，与他们产生了共鸣，那些人在以一种被极度误导的方式寻求意义，”他说。
The men charged on Wednesday appeared to fit that mold, according to court documents. They were influenced by videos posted online by the Islamic State, inspired by messages on social media and compelled to act after months of becoming increasingly radicalized.
从法庭文件来看，周三被指控的男子似乎就符合这种类型。他们受了伊斯兰国发布在网上的视频的影响，被社交媒体上的讯息所鼓舞，并在数月时间里变得越来越激进，觉得必须采取行动。
The court documents show young men driven to travel thousands of miles to the killing fields in the desert even as they clashed at home with family members they considered infidels. One of the young men had his passport taken away by his mother, who had grown concerned about his behavior.
法庭文件显示，尽管在家里与被他们视为异教徒的家人发生了冲突，受到驱使的年轻男子依然想要跨越数千英里，前往沙漠中的战场。其中一名男子的护照被其母亲拿走了。他的行为让她担忧。
At times, they come across as naïve. One of the men said he would need only $400 in Syria because the Islamic State would take care of their needs, according to the complaint. But they were also committed, vowing to shoot police officers if their plans fell through.
他们时常会给人留下幼稚的印象。起诉书称，其中一名男子说他在叙利亚只需要400美元（约合2400元人民币），因为伊斯兰国会满足他们的需求。但他们也很坚定，发誓称如果计划落空便会向警察开枪。