The mystery of the Chinese Paralympic champion in the New York City Marathon took a while to unravel.
中国残奥会冠军在纽约曼哈顿的谜团，花了一段时间才被解开。
The champion, Zou Lihong, was supposed to re-enact a great showdown from the Rio Games, where she beat the favored American, Tatyana McFadden, by a hair in the wheelchair marathon. But when McFadden crossed the Central Park finish line as the champion on Sunday, she hadn’t seen Zou for miles. None of the competitors had. Questions to a race official yielded no clue as to what had happened.
邹丽红本应再现里约奥运会上的精彩对决——她在那场轮椅马拉松比赛中险胜塔季扬娜·麦克法登(Tatyana McFadden)。然而上周日，当麦克法登作为冠军冲过中央公园的终点线时，已经好几英里没有见到她。所有参赛者都不知道她在哪。在被问到出了什么情况时，一位赛事工作人员也一头雾水。
So where did Zou end her first competition in the United States?
那么，邹丽红是在哪里结束了她在美国的第一场比赛？
In Brooklyn, halted by a flat tire near Mile 13, upset and among strangers who had no idea who she was. But they wanted to help.
在布鲁克林的13英里标识附近，她因轮椅车轮爆胎而停下来，看起来有些懊恼。身边的陌生人不知道她是谁，但他们想帮助她。
Three of them were especially eager — a software engineer, a marketing representative and a young New York City police officer who grew up on Long Island but had never seen the marathon in person until he took up his post on Sunday.
其中三人尤其热心，分别是一名软件工程师、一名销售代表，还有一名年轻的纽约市警察。后者在长岛长大，但在周日到这里执勤以前，他从来没在现场看过马拉松。
It became clear pretty quickly that they would not be able to get Zou back onto the course. Typically racers carry a spare tire, but Zou had only materials to patch, not replace.
情况很快就明了了，他们无法帮邹丽红重返赛道。参赛者通常会携带一个备胎，但邹丽红只有补胎的材料，没有备胎。
Salvaging the day, emotionally if not competitively, would require other tools. To vault the language barrier, Zou would have to talk with her new companions through a translation app. She tapped Chinese characters onto one of their smartphones, and an unexpected conversation began.
而要挽救局面——就算只是改善一下情绪而不是比赛结果——需要其他工具。为克服语言障碍，邹丽红必须通过一个翻译软件和她的新伙伴交流。她在其中一人的智能手机上输入中文，一场意料之外的对话开始了。
“It really was a cool New York moment,” said Cecilia Daley, a marketing representative for Pfizer Pharmaceuticals who had volunteered to be one of the bicycling escorts acting as bodyguards of sorts for the wheelchair racers, protecting them from errant pedestrians and whatever else might stray into their path. “I wouldn’t imagine it happening anywhere else.”
“这真是一个很酷的纽约时刻，”在辉瑞制药(Pfizer Pharmaceuticals)公司做销售代表的塞西莉亚·戴利(Cecilia Daley)说。她是这场赛事的志愿者，骑着自行车和轮椅上的参赛者随行，扮演类似保镖的角色，防止行人或任何其他东西闯入赛道。“我无法想象这种事会在任何别的地方发生。”
Officer Krystopher Valentin, 24 and a little more than a year into his job with the Police Department, had contacted the race’s emergency crew to help Zou return to Manhattan. Claudia Kulesh, a software engineer for Bloomberg L.P. and another escort cyclist, explained what Zou could expect by typing into the translation app: “They will have to take you separately from your chair.”
现年24岁的克里斯托弗·瓦伦丁(Krystopher Valentin)刚到警察局工作一年多，他联系了赛事紧急援救人员帮邹丽红返回曼哈顿。彭博资讯公司(Bloomberg L.P.)软件工程师克劳迪娅·库列什(Claudia Kulesh)和另一名骑行护卫人员通过翻译软件向邹丽红解释接下来会发生什么：“他们必须把你和轮椅分开，分别带回去。”
As the group waited for an athlete support van to collect Zou and her racing chair, the wind picked up. Zou shivered. Officer Valentin asked whether she needed anything. She said no at first, but he saw her lips trembling and asked again. Then he insisted.
在等待运动员支援面包车来接邹丽红和和她的比赛用车时，风刮了起来。邹丽红冷得发抖。瓦伦丁问需不需要给她拿点什么。她一开始说不用，但他看见她的嘴唇在颤抖，就又问了一次。然后坚持给她提供帮助。
He gave her his jacket, bearing shield No. 6350, and it swallowed her petite frame. In the middle of a crosswalk, the officer leaned in for a picture, resting his right arm behind her chair. Zou smiled.
他把自己带着6350号警徽的夹克给她穿上，宽大的警服完全裹住了她小小的身躯。在人行横道的中间，这名警察靠过来跟她合影，右胳膊放在她的轮椅后面。邹丽红微笑着。
“She was the most humble, sweet person,” Valentin said.
“她是一个非常谦逊和友善的人，”瓦伦丁说。
They talked for about 25 minutes through the translation app before the emergency car arrived. “She ended up manning my post with me,” he said.
他们通过翻译软件聊了大约25分钟，之后紧急救援车到达。“最后变成了她在和我一起执勤，”他说。
None of the three knew that two months earlier Zou had stunned the field, and herself, by beating McFadden at the Paralympics. “It was an accident,” Zou said Sunday. “She’s better than me.”
他们三人谁也不知道两个月前邹丽红曾因在残奥会上击败麦克法登而震惊赛场，其实连她自己也没想到。“那是个意外，”邹丽红周日说道。“她比我强。”
In an interview through a translator, Coco Zhang, who works for China’s sports agency for the disabled, Zou explained what racing meant to her.
在通过为中国残奥人体育机构工作的翻译科科·张(Coco Zhang)接受采访时，邹丽红解释了比赛对她来说意味着什么。
She is 32, five years older than McFadden. She contracted polio as a child and lost the use of a leg, but she didn’t begin competitive racing until 2009.
她今年32岁，比麦克法登大五岁。因小时候患小儿麻痹症，有一条腿失去了行动能力。但直到2009年，她才开始参加竞技比赛。
“Sport changed my life,” Zou said. “In China, having a disability is considered shameful, but sport shows it’s not.”
“体育改变了我的人生，”邹丽红说。“在中国，残疾被看作是不光彩的，但在体育赛事上就不会这样。”
Winning gold in Rio has not changed her life, Zou said, but it has given her more confidence, even as she remains in awe of McFadden. “She’s my idol,” Zou said. “She’s a legend.”
邹丽红说，在里约夺金并没有给她的生活带来太大改变，但它让她变得更加自信，尽管她依然敬畏麦克法登。“她是我的偶像，”邹丽红说。“是一个传奇。”
An invitation to the New York City Marathon soon followed Zou’s Rio win, and she became the first Chinese woman in the city’s wheelchair event.
在里约夺得金牌后不久，她就接到了参加纽约马拉松赛的邀请，成为参加纽约轮椅马拉松赛的第一位中国女运动员。
Had she expected to beat McFadden again?
她是否期待再次击败麦克法登呢？
“No,” she said. “My body wasn’t ready. I needed more training.”
“不，”她说。“我的身体状况还达不到。我需要更多训练。”
None of the top contenders quite knew what to expect from Zou on Sunday since they had never faced her in a race with so many inclines. Rio was a flat, looped course.
几位一流参赛选手都不知道邹丽红周日会有怎样的表现，因为她们以前没有在有这么多坡道的赛场上和她交过手。里约是平坦的环形赛道。
The first mile, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, is the longest and steepest hill on the course, and Zou fell far behind at the start. Then came the flat tire.
赛事第一英里经过的韦拉札诺海峡大桥(Verrazano-Narrows Bridge)是全程最长最陡的斜坡，邹丽红从一开始就远远落在后面。然后又出现了爆胎的情况。
The volunteer cyclists enter the race as the wheelchair competitors descend from the Verrazano-Narrows. The escorts aren’t allowed to cheer or coach, but they can jump into action like a pit crew to assist with a flat tire. Daley, who was assigned to shield Zou, realized her racer had fallen behind the pack and circled back to find her. Kulesh joined her in the effort.
志愿自行车手是在轮椅赛手从韦拉札诺海峡大桥下来之后开始加入的。作为随行陪护，他们不能为参赛者鼓劲或提供指导，但他们可以像后勤人员一样立即行动帮助修复漏气的轮胎。被分配给邹丽红提供陪护的戴利意识到她的赛手落在了后面，于是绕回去找她。库列什也一样。
Zou began the day with a flat, but ended it with a New York moment. Before saying goodbye, the group exchanged texts and shared the photo of Zou and Officer Valentin, making a big city feel a little smaller.
邹丽红的这一天从爆胎开始，以一个动人的纽约时刻结束。在告别之前，几个人交换了信息，分享了邹丽红和瓦伦丁的照片，这个大城市因之感觉小了那么一点。
As Zou left Brooklyn in the van, her support group still didn’t know about the gold medal. Then someone looked up her name online.
在邹丽红坐在面包车上离开布鲁克林时，她的支援小组依然不知道她得过奥运金牌的事。然后有人在网上搜索了她的名字。
“Only later did we find out and say, “Oh my gosh!’ ” Kulesh said.
“直到后来我们才发现，然后说，‘哦，天哪！’”库列什说。
On Sunday night, Zou returned to her hotel on Sixth Avenue with an overstuffed shopping bag imprinted with an ad from the new movie “Trolls.” She had been to Macy’s and Victoria’s Secret.
周日晚上，邹丽红带着塞得满满的购物袋回到位于第六大道的酒店，袋子上印着来自新影片《魔发精灵》(Trolls)的广告。她去了梅西百货(Macy’s)和维多利亚的秘密(Victoria’s Secret)。
On Monday she was to fly home to China with her new merchandise and fond memories of New York and its people, despite her abbreviated race.
周一，她将带着新买的商品和有关纽约及这里的人的美好记忆返回中国，尽管她没能完成自己的比赛。
“They were very kind to me,” Zou said, looking at that photo on her phone. “I hope to come back.”
“他们对我非常好，”邹丽红看着她手机里的那张照片说。“我希望还有机会回来。”