A 27-year-old man pleaded guilty on Wednesday to killing his cousin’s wife and four young children while he was staying in the family’s home in Brooklyn.
一名27岁的男子在周三表示认罪，承认自己住在布鲁克林的表兄家时杀害了表嫂和四个年幼的孩子。
The man, Mingdong Chen, trembled as he stood handcuffed before Justice Vincent M. Del Guidice in State Supreme Court. In admitting to the crimes, Mr. Chen, who is from China, pleaded guilty to three counts of second-degree murder and two counts of first-degree manslaughter. He was originally charged with five counts of first-degree murder.
此人名为陈明东（音），站在州最高法院法官文森特·M·戴朱迪斯(Vincent M. Del Guidice)面前，戴着手铐，浑身发抖。来自中国的陈明东表示认罪，承认三项二级谋杀罪及两项一级非预谋杀人罪。他最初被指控的是五项一级谋杀罪。
“I only would have accepted this plea if never again under any circumstances could he be free in society,” said the judge, who set sentencing for Oct. 20 and announced that he planned to sentence Mr. Chen to 125 years in prison.
“只有他在任何情况下都不能重返社会，我才会接受这一认罪，”法官说。他将在10月20日宣判，并表示预备判处陈明东125年有期徒刑。
According to the Brooklyn district attorney, Kenneth P. Thompson, Mr. Chen used a meat cleaver to kill Qiao Zhen Li, 37, and her children, Linda Zhuo, 9, Amy Zhuo, 7, Kevin Zhuo, 5, and William Zhuo, 1, on Oct. 27, 2013.
据布鲁克林地区检察官肯尼思·P·汤普森(Kenneth P. Thompson)表示，陈明东在2013年10月27日用一把切肉刀杀害了37岁的李巧珍（音）和她的四个孩子：9岁的琳达·卓(Linda Zhuo)，7岁的埃米·卓(Amy Zhuo)，5岁的凯文·卓(Kevin Zhuo)和1岁的威廉·卓(William Zhuo)。
Ms. Li had called her mother-in-law in China that day and told her that Mr. Chen was threatening the family with a knife, Mr. Thompson said in a news release announcing the guilty plea. The mother-in-law alerted relatives who lived nearby, and they rushed to the family’s apartment on 57th Street in the Sunset Park neighborhood. There, Mr. Thompson said, they found Mr. Chen splattered with blood and held him until the police arrived.
汤普森在公布认罪一事的新闻稿中表示，案发当天李女士曾致电在中国的婆婆，对她说陈明东在用刀威胁他们全家。婆婆通知了住在附近的亲戚，他们赶到了位于第57街的日落公园社区的卓家。在那里，汤普森说，他们发现陈明东满身鲜血，就押着他直到警察赶到。
The only glimpse of a motive for the killings that Mr. Chen ever offered came after he was arrested, when, according to the police, he told detectives that “everyone seems to be doing better than him” since his arrival in the United States in 2004. He and his cousin, Yilin Zhuo, Ms. Li’s husband and the father of the four dead children, are among the thousands of immigrants from Fujian, a province in southeast China, who have come to New York in recent decades. Many of those immigrants have settled in Sunset Park.
陈明东唯一一次透露他的杀人动机是在他被捕后。警方表示，他告诉探员，自从2004年抵达美国后，“每个人似乎都过得比他好。”他的表兄卓一林（音）是李女士的丈夫和遇害的四名孩子的父亲。他们是成千上万来自中国东南部福建省的移民中的两员。这些移民在最近几十年里陆续来到纽约，其中许多定居在日落公园一带。
Mr. Zhuo was in court and followed the proceedings with the aid of an interpreter. In the process, he heard Mark Hale, an assistant district attorney, explain to the judge why prosecutors had agreed to the plea.
卓先生当时就在法庭上，在一名口译员的帮助下了解诉讼的进程。在这个过程中，他听到助理地区检察官马克·赫尔(Mark Hale)向法官解释为什么检方同意陈明东认罪。
“The burning question is why these things happen, but in the sum total of things it doesn’t matter,” Mr. Hale said. “It is a certainty that the goal of public safety will be accomplished. This man will be permanently removed from society, and it saves the family an ordeal of a trial.”
“虽然人们最关心的问题是，这些事情为什么会发生，但总的来说已没有关系，”赫尔说。“保障公众安全的目标一定会实现。此人将在狱中度过余生，而且受害家庭也不用承受审讯的煎熬。”
But a woman identified by Mr. Hale as Mr. Zhuo’s sister wanted one question answered.
不过，经赫尔确认为卓先生姊妹的一名女士想要知道一个问题的答案。
“You don’t know why he did what he did?” she asked him through the interpreter.
“你不知道他为什么那样做？”她通过口译员问他。
The prosecutor shook his head.
检察官摇了摇头。