NEW YORK — More than 13 years after a terrorist attack destroyed the twin towers — soaring symbols of New York City’s might, financially and structurally — the first employees of the first tenant in the building erected to take their place arrived on Monday for their first workday.
纽约——高耸的双子塔是纽约金融力量的象征及地标，在被恐怖袭击摧毁逾13年后，在双子塔原址建造的建筑的首个租户的首批员工，于周一到达工作地点，开始了他们的首个工作日。
“The building is open for business,” said Jordan Barowitz, an official of the Durst Organization, which developed the building, 1 World Trade Center, with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. “It’s a beautiful building, it’s a historic building, but it’s an office building and it’s open for business.”
“这座大楼在对外营业，”德斯集团管理人员乔丹·巴罗维茨(Jordan Barowitz)说。“这是一座漂亮的建筑，具有历史意义的建筑，但这也是一座办公大楼，是对外营业的。”德斯集团(Durst Organization)和纽约与新泽西港口事务管理局(Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)共同开发了世界贸易中心1号大楼。
At 1,776 feet in height, the building is steps from where the north tower stood until Sept. 11, 2001. But where that sunny morning held a still-summery promise until the first jetliner lacerated 1 World Trade Center and smoke filled the jewel-blue sky, Monday was chilly and windy as employees of the magazine publisher Condé Nast arrived.
大楼高1776英尺（约合541米），离2001年9月11日倒塌的世贸北楼所在位置仅几步之遥。但在那个阳光明媚的早上，仍在夏日的希望洋溢，直到世贸中心1号大楼被第一架飞机击碎，宝石蓝般的天空中满是滚滚浓烟。而杂志出版商康泰纳仕出版集团(Condé Nast)的员工到达大楼时的周一，天气寒冷多风。
They walked under the lobby’s high ceilings, adorned in white marble from the same quarry as the old towers — one of the many details that will remind them that their new workplace has an unavoidable connection to that day, and to the pledges of renewal made by elected officials and ordinary citizens alike.
他们穿过高耸的大堂，用于装饰的白色大理石与双子塔所用的大理石来自同一家采石场，这是众多细节中的一个，这些细节会让他们记得，他们的新工作场所与那一日，及与民选官员及普通民众做出的重建承诺，存在不可避免的联系。
There was an awareness, too, of apprehension, reinforced by the comedian Chris Rock on “Saturday Night Live” less than 36 hours earlier. Referring to 1 World Trade Center as the Freedom Tower, he said: “They should change the name from the Freedom Tower to the ‘Never Going in There Tower,’ because I’m never going in there. There is no circumstance that will ever get me in that building.”
也有人感到恐惧，喜剧演员克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock)在不到36个小时前参加《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)时强化了这种恐惧感。他说，“他们应该将自由塔改名为‘打死也不进去塔’，因为我绝不会进那栋大楼。无论什么情况，休想让我进去。”
“I can understand the fear behind it,” said a Condé Nast employee, Vijay Ramcharitar, 25, whose new office is on the 21st floor.
25岁的维贾伊·拉姆查里塔(Vijay Ramcharitar)说，“我能理解这背后的恐惧。” 这名康泰纳仕出版集团员工的新办公室位于21层。
But he was resolute about going to work. “If you live in fear,” he said, “you can’t get anything done in your life.” He called the building “an inspiration” and said it was “cool” to have a place there.
但他坚定地要去工作。“如果活在恐惧中，”他说，“你的生活会一事无成。”他称那栋大楼“鼓舞人心”，并表示能在那里办公“很酷”。
The company’s arrival was an extraordinary moment that passed in the most ordinary of ways, as employees simply walked in and took elevators to their floors. There were no ribbons being cut, no marching bands playing and no elected officials giving speeches, in part because Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo had campaign appearances elsewhere.
这家公司的入驻是一个非同寻常的时刻，但表现形式却是最普通的。员工们只是走进大楼，乘坐电梯到达各自的楼层。没有剪彩，没有演奏的游行乐队，也没有民选官员发表讲话，不过这部分是因为纽约州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M.Cuomo)在其他地方参加竞选活动。
The workers are what the company calls corporate employees, meaning that they do not work for any one of its magazines in particular. Some work in human relations, some in accounting.
这些工作人员是公司所说的集团雇员，也就是说他们不服务于该公司具体某份杂志。其中一些从事人事关系管理，还有一些从事财会工作。
Glamour? It will come later, as will Vogue, Vanity Fair, The New Yorker and Condé Nast’s other magazines.
光鲜的那部分呢？随后就到，《Vogue》、《名利场》(Vanity Fair)、《纽约客》(The New Yorker)以及康泰纳仕出版集团旗下的其他杂志此后也会搬过来。
It was the culmination of 13 years of unusually public squabbles over architects and designs; of political jockeying and bureaucratic bickering; and of complicated construction work.
这也标志着一场持续13年的争论终于尘埃落定，这场格外公开的争论围绕建筑师和设计；政治博弈和官员之间的口角；以及复杂的建设施工。
Construction on 1 World Trade Center began in 2006, and the statistics were monumental. The building’s exterior cladding contains enough glass to cover 20 pro football fields. The building has as much steel as in 20,000 cars and enough concrete for a four-inch-thick sidewalk from New York to Chicago.
世贸中心1号楼的施工始于2006年，相关数据十分惊人。大楼的外墙使用的玻璃，足以覆盖20个专业足球场。大楼使用的钢铁，足以制造2万辆汽车，用的水泥则足以在纽约和芝加哥之间铺一条4英寸（约合10厘米）厚的人行道。