HIS LIFE BEGAN small and plain. George Bell was especially attached to his parents. He slept on the pullout sofa in the living room, while his parents claimed the bedroom, and he continued to sleep there even after they died. Both parents came from Scotland. His father was a tool-and-die machinist, and his mother worked for a time as a seamstress in the toy industry.
他的生命之始渺小而平凡。乔治·贝尔跟父母感情深厚。他睡在客厅的折叠沙发上，卧室留给了父母，甚至在他们去世后，他也还是睡在客厅。他父母都来自苏格兰。父亲是一个做工具和模具的机工，母亲有一段时间在玩具行业做针线活。
After high school, he joined his father as an apprentice. In 1961, he made an acquaintance at a local bar, a moving man. They became friends, and the moving man pulled George Bell into the moving business. His name was Tom Higginbotham. Three fellow movers also became friends: Frank Murzi, Albert Schober and Martin Westbrook. The men in the will. They mainly moved business offices, and they all guzzled booze, in titanic proportions.
高中毕业后，他开始给父亲当学徒。1961年，他在本地一家酒吧结识了一个搬运工。他们成了朋友，搬运工劝说乔治·贝尔一起去干搬家的活。此人名叫汤姆·希根巴塔姆。还有三个搬运工也成了朋友：弗兰克·穆尔吉、阿尔伯特·朔伯尔和马丁·韦斯特布鲁克。遗嘱里的男人。他们主要做企业办公室搬家生意，个个都是鲸吸牛饮的人物。
“We were a bunch of drunks,” Mr. Westbrook said. “I’m a juicer. But George put me to shame. He was a real nice guy, kind of a hermit. Boy, we had some good times.”
“我们就是一帮醉鬼，”韦斯特布鲁克说。“我是抱着酒瓶不撒手那种，但跟乔治一比，我就不算什么了。他真是个好人，有点隐士的意思。那段日子可真好啊。”
In the words of Mr. Higginbotham: “We were great friends. I don’t know if you can say it this way, but we were men who loved each other.”
用希根巴塔姆的话说：“我们都是好朋友。不知道这么说有没有不对劲，我们几个爷们那是爱上了。”
They called him Big George, for he was a thickset, brawny man, weighing perhaps 210 pounds. Later, his ravenous appetite had him pushing 350.
他们管他叫大乔治，因为他是个结实、粗壮的男人，大概有210磅。旺盛的食欲后来导致他体重涨到了350磅。
He had a puckish streak. Once a woman invited him and Mr. Higginbotham to a party at her parents’ house. Her father kept tropical fish. She showed George Bell the tank. When he admired a distinctive fish, she said, “Oh, that’s an expensive one.” He picked up a net, caught the fish and swallowed it.
他有种爱胡闹的秉性。有一次一个女人邀请他和希根巴塔姆去参加聚会，是在她父母的房子里。她的父亲养热带鱼。她给乔治·贝尔看鱼缸。其中一条特别的鱼让他格外喜欢，她说，“噢，那条可贵了。”他拿起一张网子，把鱼捞上来，一口吞了下去。
One day the friends were moving a financial firm. After they had fitted the desks into the new offices, George Bell slid notes into the drawers, writing things like: “I’m madly in love with you. Meet me at the water cooler.” Or: “There’s a bomb under your chair. Your next move might be your last.”
有一次他们几个给一家金融公司搬家。把桌子搬到新办公室摆好后，乔治·贝尔在一些抽屉里放了纸条，上面写着：“我爱你爱得发狂。到饮水机边跟我见个面。”或：“你椅子下有炸弹。你的下一个动作将是人生最后一个动作。”
Dumb pranks. Big George being Big George.
傻乎乎的恶作剧。大乔治的招牌。
Friends, though, found him difficult to crack open. There were things inside no one could get out. You learned to suppress your questions around him.
然而，朋友发现他是个很难交心的人。他总是藏着一些谁也别想看到的东西。渐渐地，你就不去问那些关于他的问题了。
He had his burdens. His father died young. As she aged, his mother became crippled by arthritis. He cared for her, fetching her food and bathing her until her death.
他有他的包袱。他的父亲死的早。母亲年纪大了以后因为关节炎落下了残疾。他照顾她，给她做饭、洗澡，一直到她去世。
He was fastidious about his money, only trusted banks for his savings. There was a woman he began dating when she was 19 and he was 25. “We got real keen on each other,” she said later. “He made me feel special.”
他非常紧张自己的钱，积蓄只存在银行里。在25岁那年，他跟一个19岁的姑娘约会。“我们爱得死去活来，”她后来说。“他让我觉得自己很特别。”
A marriage was planned. They spoke to a wedding hall. He bought a suit. Then, he told friends, the woman’s mother had wanted him to sign a prenuptial agreement to protect her daughter if the marriage should break apart. He ended the engagement, and never had another serious relationship.
他们准备结婚。两人去看了一个礼堂。他买了一套正装。后来，他跟朋友说，那个女人的妈妈要他签婚前协议，这样万一离婚她女儿也有个保障。他终止了婚约，此后再也没有过正经的恋爱关系。
That woman was Eleanore Albert, the fourth name in the will.
那个女人就是伊莲诺·阿尔伯特，遗嘱上第四个名字。
Some years later, she married an older man who made equipment for a party supply company, and moved upstate to become Ms. Flemm. In 2002, her husband died.
几年后，她跟一个比她大的男人结婚，是给一个聚会用品公司做设备的，两人搬到了州北，她成了弗雷姆夫人。2002年，她的丈夫去世。
Distance and time never dampened the emotional affinity between her and George Bell. They spoke on the phone and exchanged cards. “We had something for each other that never got used up,” she said. She had sent him a Valentine’s Day card just last year: “George, think of you often with love.”
距离和时间没有影响她和乔治·贝尔在情感上的亲近。他们会通电话，互寄贺卡。“我们之间有些东西始终还在，”她说。就在去年她还给他寄了情人节卡片。“乔治，常常怀着爱意想起你。”
And unbeknown to her, he had put her in his will and kept her there.
但她不知道，他把她写进了遗嘱，并且一直在里面。
Her life finished up a lot like his. She lived alone, in a trailer. She died of a heart attack. A neighbor who cleared her snow found her. She had gotten obese. Her brother had her cremated.
她的生命以跟他差不多的方式结束。她一个人住在拖车里。她死于心梗。一个邻居在帮她扫雪时发现了她。她有肥胖问题。她的弟弟将她火葬。
A difference was that she left behind debt, owed to the bank and to credit card companies. All that she would pass on was tens of thousands of dollars of George Bell’s money, money that she never got to touch.
不同的是她留下了债务，欠银行和信用卡公司的钱。她只是把来自乔治·贝尔的几万美元转一转手，自己碰都没碰过。
Some would filter down to her brother, who had no plans for it. A slice went to Michael Garber, her nephew, who drives a bus at Disney World. A friend of his aunt’s had owned a Camaro convertible that she relished, and he might buy a used Camaro in her honor.
剩下的她弟弟会得到一部分，他还没想好要怎么用。她的外甥、在迪士尼乐园开大巴的迈克尔·巴伯尔(Michael Barber)，也会得到一部分。他的这位阿姨有个朋友拥有一辆雪佛兰科迈罗，是她格外钟爱的车，为此，他可能会买一辆二手科迈罗，作为对她的纪念。
Some more would go to Sarah Teta, a niece, retired and living in Altamonte Springs, Fla., who plans to save it for a rainy day. “You always hear about people you don’t know dying and leaving you money,” she said. “I never thought it would happen to me.”
她的外甥女莎拉·泰塔(Sarah Teta)也会得到一些，已经退休的泰塔住在佛罗里达州阿尔塔蒙特泉，她打算把钱存起来以防万一。“经常听说某个你不认识的人死了，留了一笔钱给你，”他说。“我可没想过这种事会发生在我身上。”
And some would funnel down to Eleanore Flemm’s other niece, Dorothy Gardiner, a retired waitress and home health care aide. She lives in Apopka, Fla., never heard of George Bell. She has survived two cancers and has several thousand dollars in medical bills that could finally disappear. “I’ve been paying off $25 a month, what I can,” she said. “I never would have expected this. It’s crazy.”
还有一些会给伊莲诺·弗雷姆的另一个外甥女多萝西·加迪纳尔(Dorothy Gardiner)，一个已经退休的餐馆服务员和家庭医疗护理员。她住在佛罗里达州阿勃卡，完全不知道乔治·贝尔是谁。她经历了两场癌症，欠下数千美元的医疗费，这下终于可以还清。“我每个月还25美元，尽我最大能力，”她说。“这可真是没想到。太疯狂了。”
IN 1996, GEORGE BELL hurt his left shoulder and spine lifting a desk on a moving job, and his life took a different shape. He received approval for workers’ compensation and Social Security disability payments and began collecting a pension from the Teamsters. Though he never worked again, he had all the income he needed.
1996年，乔治·贝尔干活时为了抬起一张桌子伤了左肩和脊椎，人生从此被改变。他得到了工人赔偿金，社会安全福利的残疾补助，还开始领取卡车司机工会(Teamsters)的津贴。此后他再也没工作过，但收入也完全够用了。
He used to have buddies over to watch television and he would cook for them. Then he stopped having anyone over. No one knew why.
以前他还会邀请朋友去家里看电视，给他们做饭。但后来就再也不让人来家里了。没人知道是因为什么。
Old friends had drifted away, and with them some of the fire in George Bell’s life. Of his moving man colleagues, Mr. Murzi retired in 1994 and died in 2011. Mr. Schober retired in 1996 and moved to Brooklyn, losing touch. He died in 2002.
老朋友渐渐远去，把乔治·贝尔的生活热情也一点点带走。他的搬运工同事里，穆尔吉于1994年退休，2011年去世。朔伯尔于1996年退休并移居布鲁克林，从此失去联系。他于2002年去世。
Mr. Higginbotham quit the moving business, and moved upstate in 1973 to work for the state as an environmental scientist.
希根巴塔姆离开了搬家行业，1973年搬到州北，成为州政府的一名环境科学家。
He is now 74, retired and living alone in Virginia. The last time he spoke to George Bell was 10 years ago. He used a code of ringing and hanging up to get him to answer his phone, but in time, he got no answer. He sent cards, beseeched him to come and visit, but he wouldn’t. It was two months before Mr. Higginbotham found out George Bell had died.
他现年74岁，已经退休，一个人住在弗吉尼亚。上一次和乔治·贝尔通话是在10年前。他用了一种电话响铃—挂机的暗号，想让他拿起电话，但终归都是徒劳。他寄给他卡片，哀求他过来看他，他没来。两个月后希根巴塔姆才得知乔治·贝尔已经离世。
It has been hard for him to reconcile the way George Bell’s money came to him. “I’ve been stressed about this,” he said. “I haven’t been sleeping. My stomach hurts. My blood pressure is up. I argued with him time and again to get out of that apartment and spend his money and enjoy life. I sent him so many brochures on places to go. I thought I understood George. Now I realize I didn’t understand him at all.”
乔治·贝尔的钱以这种方式来到他的手上，让他很难接受。“我睡不着觉。胃疼。血压也上来了。我跟他吵了不知多少回，就为了让他走出家门，花钱，享受生活。我寄给他好多旅游广告，希望他去玩。我以为我了解乔治。现在我知道我根本不了解他。”
Mr. Higginbotham was content with the fundaments of his own life: his modest one-bedroom apartment, his 15-year-old truck. He put the inheritance into mutual funds and figures it will help his three grandchildren through college. George Bell’s money educating the future.
希根巴塔姆对自己的简单生活很满意：普普通通的一居室公寓，开了15年的旧车。他把得到的遗产放进了共有基金，估摸着靠这笔钱可以供三个孙辈上大学。乔治·贝尔的钱正在教育未来。
In 1994, Mr. Westbrook hurt his knee and left the moving business. He moved to Sprakers, where he had a cattle farm. When he got older and his marriage dissolved, he sold the farm but still lives nearby. He is 74. It was several years ago that he last spoke to George Bell on the phone. Mr. Bell told him he did not get out much.
1994年，韦斯特布鲁克弄伤了膝盖，离开了搬家行业。他搬到了Sprakers居住，在那里有一座养牛场。后来年纪大了，婚姻也结束了，他卖掉农场，但仍然住在那一带。他今年74岁。几年前他跟乔治·贝尔通过一个电话，那是两人最后一次讲话。贝尔跟他说他不怎么出门。
He has three grandchildren and wants to move to a mellower climate. He plans to give some of the money to Mr. Murzi’s widow, because Mr. Murzi had been his best friend.
他有三个孙辈，希望搬到气候宜人一点的地方住。他计划把一部分钱给穆尔吉的遗孀，因为穆尔吉是他最要好的朋友。
“My sister needs some dental work,” he said. “I need some dental work. I need hearing aids. The golden age ain’t so cheap. Big George’s money will make my old age easier.”
“我的妹妹需要看牙医，”他说。“我也要看牙医。我需要助听器。黄金岁月可是不便宜。大乔治的钱能让我的晚年生活好过些。”
He felt awful about his dying alone, nobody knowing. “Yeah, that’ll happen to me,” he said. “I’m a loner, too. There’s maybe four or five people up here I talk to.”
他觉得一个人死去太可怕了，谁也不知道。“是啊，我也会是这样，”他说。“我也是一个人待着。在这里我只会跟那么四五个人搭话。”
In his final years, with the moving men gone, George Bell’s life had become emptier. Neighbors nodded to him on the street and he smiled. He told lively stories to the young woman next door, who lived with her parents, when he bumped into her. She recently became a police officer, and she was the one who had smelled what she knew was death.
随着搬运工朋友的离去，乔治·贝尔的人生最后几年愈发空虚。邻居在街上冲他点头，他会微笑。撞见隔壁那个跟父母一起住的姑娘，他会讲个欢快的故事给她听。她最近成了一名警官，就是她嗅到了那股气味，她知道那是死亡。
But in the end, George Bell seemed to keep just one true friend.
然而到最后，乔治·贝尔似乎只保留了一个真正的朋友。
He had been a fixture at a neighborhood pub called Budds Bar. He showed up in his cutoff blue sweatshirt so often that some regulars called him Sweatshirt Bell. At one point, he eased up on his drinking, then, worried about his health, quit. But he still went to Budds, ordering club soda.
他在附近的Budds酒吧是个无人不晓的人物。他经常穿一件蓝色无袖运动衫去那里，酒吧常客因此管他叫“运动衫贝尔”。后来有一天他开始控制饮酒，再后来，出于对身体状况的担忧，他彻底戒了。但还是会去Budds点一杯苏打水。
In April 2005, Budds closed. Many regulars gravitated to another bar, Legends. George Bell went a few times, then transferred his allegiance to Bantry Bay Publick House in Long Island City. He would meet his friend there.
2005年4月，Budds关门了。许多常客流向了传奇酒吧(Legends)。乔治·贝尔去了几次，后来转而效忠于长岛市的班特里湾酒吧(Bantry Bay Publick House)。他会在那里跟朋友会面。
THE SIGN at the entrance to Bantry Bay says, “Enter as Strangers, Leave as Friends.” Squished in near the window was Frank Bertone, sipping soup and nursing a drink. He is known as the Dude. George Bell’s last good friend.
班特里湾的门口有个牌子写着：“进去是陌生人，出来是朋友。”弗兰克·伯尔托内(Frank Bertone)窝在窗边的一个座位上喝着汤，小口呡着酒。人们管他叫“小伙儿”。他是乔治·贝尔最后的好朋友。
In the early 1980s, not long after moving to Jackson Heights, he stopped in at Budds in need of a restroom. A big man had bellowed, “Have a beer.”
在1980年代初，搬到杰克逊高地后不久，他走进Budds借用卫生间。一个大块头冲他吼了一声，“来个啤酒。”
That was George Bell. In time, a friendship was spawned, deepening during the 15 years that remained of George Bell’s life. They met on Saturdays at Bantry Bay. They fished in the Rockaways and at Jones Beach, sometimes with others. Mr. Bell bought a car to get out to the good spots, but the car otherwise mostly sat. They passed time meandering around, the days bleeding into one another.
那就是乔治·贝尔。两人的友谊，在乔治·贝尔人生的最后15年得以不断加深。他们会去罗卡韦和琼斯海滩钓鱼，有时也去别的地方。为了去理想的垂钓地点，贝尔买了辆车，不过除此之外那车就很少用了。他们会一起闲逛，消磨时光，一段朝暮不知的日子。
“Where did we go?” Mr. Bertone said. “No place. One time we sat for hours in the parking lot of Bed Bath & Beyond. What did we talk about? The world’s problems. Just like that, the two of us solved the world’s problems.”
“我们都去哪？”伯尔托内说。“没地方去。有一次我们在Bed Bath & Beyond商场的停车场坐了几个钟头。我们聊什么？这个世界的问题。就这样，我们两个人，解决世界的问题。”
Mr. Bertone is 67, a retired inspector for Consolidated Edison. Over the last decade, he had spent more time with George Bell than anyone, but he didn’t feel he truly knew him.
伯尔托内今年67岁，是联合爱迪生(Consolidated Edison)公司的退休稽核员。过去十年里，他是跟乔治·贝尔相处最多的人，但是他觉得自己并不真的了解他。
“One thing about George is he didn’t get personal,” he said. “Not ever.”
“乔治这人就这样，别涉及个人，”他说。“永远也不要。”
He knew he had never married. He spoke of girlfriends, but Mr. Bertone never met any. The two had even swapped views on wills and what happens to your money in the end, though Mr. Bertone did not know George Bell had drafted a will before they met.
他知道他没结过婚。他说起过女朋友，但伯尔托内一个也没见过。两人甚至交流过对遗嘱的看法，说说自己的钱到头来会怎么处理，但伯尔托内不知道，乔治·贝尔在两人认识前已经写好遗嘱了。
Mr. Bertone would invite him to his place, but he would beg off. George Bell never had him over.
伯尔托内邀请他去他家，被他婉拒。乔治·贝尔从来不邀请他上自己家。
Once, some eight years ago, Mr. Bertone trooped out there when he hadn’t heard from him in a while. George Bell cracked open the door, shooed him away. A curtain draped inside the entryway had camouflaged the chaos. Mr. Bertone had no idea that at some point, George Bell had begun keeping everything.
有一次，大约是八年前，伯尔托内有好一阵子没有他的音信，于是徒步走到了他家。乔治·贝尔把门打开一条缝，把他轰走了。门廊里挂着一个帘子，挡住了里面的一片乱象。当时伯尔托内完全不知道，乔治·贝尔已经开始把所有东西都攒起来了。
The Dude, Mr. Bertone, told a story. A few years ago, George Bell was going into the hospital for his heart and had asked him to hold onto some money. Gave him a fat envelope. Inside was $55,000.
“小伙儿”伯尔托内讲了一个故事。几年前，乔治·贝尔因为心脏问题进了医院，他要伯尔托内帮他代管一笔钱。给了他一个厚厚的信封。里面有55,000美元。
Mike Kerins, a bartender, interrupted: “Two things about George. He gave me $100 every Christmas, and he never went out to eat.” He had confessed he was too embarrassed because he would have required three entrees.
酒保迈克·柯林斯(Mike Kerins)插了一句：“关于乔治有两个事。每个圣诞节他都会给我100美元，还有他从来不出去吃饭。”他承认那是因为不好意思，他吃一顿饭得叫三道主菜。
George Bell had diabetes and complained about a shoulder pain. He took pills but skipped them during the day, saying they made him feel like an idiot.
乔治·贝尔有糖尿病，还抱怨肩膀疼。他会吃药，但是白天不吃，说是那些药会把他变成傻子。
Both the Dude and Mr. Kerins sensed he felt he had been bullied too hard by life. “George was in a lot of pain,” Mr. Kerins said. “I think he was just waiting to die, had lived enough.”
“小伙儿”和柯林斯都感觉他被生活折腾得太惨了。“乔治很痛苦，”柯林斯说。“我觉得他就是在等死，活够了。”
It was as if sadness had killed George Bell.
仿佛杀死乔治·贝尔的是悲伤。
His days had become predictable, an endless loop. He stayed cloistered inside. Neighbors heard the regular parade of deliverymen who brought him his takeout meals.
他的生活变得千篇一律，一个没有尽头的循环。他隐匿于家中。邻居都知道每天到什么点会传来外卖送餐员的脚步声。
The last time the Dude saw George Bell was about a week before his body was found. Frozen shrimp was on sale at the shopping center. George Bell got some, to take back to the kitchen he did not use.
“小伙儿”最后一次见乔治·贝尔，大概是他的尸体被发现前一周。购物中心的冷冻虾在打折。乔治·贝尔买了一些，带回到那个他不会用的厨房。
Mr. Bertone didn’t realize he had died until someone came to Legends with the news. Mr. Kerins was there and he told the Dude. They made some calls to find out more, but got nowhere.
要不是有人来传奇酒吧说起这事，伯尔托内都不知道他已经死了。柯林斯当时听到这个消息，转告给“小伙儿”。他们打了几个电话，想多了解一些情况，但什么也没打听出来。
Why did he die alone, no one knowing?
为什么会一个人死去，谁也不知道？
The Dude thought on that. “I don’t know, man,” he said. “I wish I could tell you. But I don’t know.”
“小伙儿”想了想。“不知道啊，”他说。“我倒是想答你。但我不知道。”
On the televisions above the busy bar, a woman was promoting a cleaning product. In the dim light, Mr. Bertone emptied his drink. “You know, I miss him,” he said. “I would have liked to see George one more time. He was my friend. One more time.”
在繁忙的吧台上方的电视里，一个女人正在推广一种清洁产品。昏暗灯光下，伯尔托内喝干了他的酒。“你知道么，我想念他，”他说。“我想再见乔治一面。他是我的朋友。再见一次。”