To the authorities, Cheng Chui Ping was the “mother of all snakeheads,” a ruthless businesswoman who smuggled thousands of Chinese emigrants into the United States.
对当局而言，郑翠萍是“蛇头之母”，这名女商人让数以万计的中国移民通过偷渡进入美国。
Prosecutors said she amassed a $40 million fortune in two decades putting desperate passengers on faulty ships. Many drowned. And for those who made the trip safely but could not pay, Ms. Cheng sent vicious gangs to abduct and beat, torture or rape them until relatives made good on their debts.
检方表示，她在二十年时间里，通过把孤注一掷的偷渡客塞进并不安全的船里，积聚了4000万美元（约合2.5亿元人民币）的财富。许多人溺水而亡。至于那些安全抵达美国却无力付款的偷渡者，则被郑翠萍派去的黑帮所绑架，受到殴打、折磨、强奸，直到他们的亲属偿还债务。
When the Golden Venture, a rusty freighter loaded with 300 starving immigrants, ran aground off the Rockaways in 1993, and 10 people died, Ms. Cheng became the enduring symbol of the traffic in human cargo, and helped popularize the term snakehead, from the Chinese translation for human-smuggler.
1993年，锈迹斑斑的货船“金色冒险号”(Golden Venture)载着300名饥肠辘辘的移民，在罗卡韦海岸搁浅，致使十人死亡。郑翠萍由此成为人口贩卖圈子里久经传颂的标志性人物，从汉语的“蛇头”一词直译而来的英语词“snakehead”，也因她而流行开来。
But along East Broadway in New York’s Chinatown this weekend, where Ms. Cheng was known as kindly Sister Ping, the untold numbers of Fujianese immigrants who arrived here with her aid, or knew others who did, were mourning her death in federal prison with the respect accorded a folk hero.
然而上周末，许许多多由她安排抵达这里，或有亲友在她的帮助下抵达这里的福建移民，来到纽约华埠的东百老汇大街表达吊唁。郑翠萍在联邦监狱去世。她受到了民间英雄一般的拥戴，在这里人们管她叫作好心的萍姐。
“Without Sister Ping, I could never have dreamed of coming here,” said Zhang Yuanjing, 69, a Chinatown resident, whose passage to New York from Fujian province in 1989 was financed and arranged by Ms. Cheng. Like other Fujianese quoted in this article, he spoke in Mandarin.
居住在华埠的张元景（音译）今年69岁。他说，“如果没有萍姐，我做梦都想不到自己能到这里。”1989年，他从福建来到纽约，郑翠萍资助并安排了他的行程。和本文援引的其他福建人一样，他们说的都是普通话。
Here, far from the Texas prison where she died of cancer on Thursday, Ms. Cheng was remembered for living modestly, working long, hard hours in a shop at 47 East Broadway, and above all, helping immigrants — whether wiring or lending money, or finding them jobs as wok chefs or deliverymen. They called a snakehead who truly cared about her passengers: She would forgive fees if things went awry, and paid for the burials of passengers who died in transit.
上周四，郑翠萍因癌症在德克萨斯州的一所监狱离世。在千里之外的纽约华埠，人们记忆中的郑翠萍生活简朴，在东百老汇大街47号的商店晨兴夜寐、辛勤劳作。让他们尤为难忘的是她对移民的帮助，无论是帮助他们汇款、借钱，还是帮他们找中餐厨师或送货员的工作。他们说，她是一个真正关心偷渡者的蛇头，如果出了差错，她会免除费用，还会为途中死去的偷渡者支付丧葬费。
In smuggling circles, her name had been synonymous with dependability, said Mr. Zhang, who recalled making his way to New York via Hong Kong, Belize and Mexico, and paying Ms. Cheng a $20,000 passage fee in installments once he found work.
张元景说，在人口走私的圈子里，她的名字一直是可靠的代名词。他回忆了自己经香港、伯利兹和墨西哥前往美国的经历。找到工作后，他以分期付款的方式，向郑翠萍支付了2万美元的费用。
“We can only say good things about her,” he said.
他说，“我们只说得出她做的好事。”
Many saw her as a tireless, self-sacrificing fighter for her fellow Fujianese, lifting people out of poverty to help them come to America.
许多人把她视为不知疲倦斗士，为了福建同乡甘愿奉献自己。她让乡亲们脱离贫困，帮他们来到美国。
Michael Chu, an immigrant advocate in Flushing, said Ms. Cheng was considered by many Chinese immigrants in New York City as a “modern day Robin Hood” for her good heart and advocacy. “Sister Ping was very generous and gave liberally to the poor and the needy,” he said. “She always helped people who were caught in difficult situations.”
法拉盛的移民权益倡导人士朱立创(Michael Chu)说，纽约的许多华人移民因为郑翠萍的善心和对移民的支持，而把她当作“现代罗宾汉”(Robin Hood)。他说，“萍姐很慷慨，对穷人和有需要的人她出手大方。她总是帮助那些陷入困境的人。”
On Fujianese websites and message boards, commenters called her “the first person to help immigrants,” “generous female knight.”
在福建人的网站和留言板上，网友称她是“帮助移民的第一人”、“女中豪杰”。
“I know she made some money, but she was really very good,” said Lin Dian, 47, who runs a restaurant across East Broadway from the building where Ms. Cheng owned a shop and restaurant. Mr. Lin, who is from near Ms. Cheng’s home village in Fujian province, added: “I wish to be just like her. I like to help people too.”
“我知道她挣了一些钱，可她真是个好人，”47岁的林典（音译）说。他经营的餐馆在东百老汇大街的另一侧，正对着郑翠萍的商店和餐馆所在的那栋楼，林典的老家和郑翠萍在福建老家的村子相邻。他还说，“我希望自己也能像她一样，我也想帮助别人。”
In Chinatown, Ms. Cheng built what authorities called the biggest immigrant-smuggling operation ever investigated in New York — one that made possible a great migration of hundreds of thousands of Chinese, many of them Fujianese, to the United States in the 1980s and 90s.
当局表示，郑翠萍在华埠建立的人口走私团伙，是纽约市受到调查的规模最大的一个。数以万计的中国人在上世纪80到90年代，通过这个偷渡网络落脚美国，其中有许多人来自福建。
Hers was also one of the most lucrative smuggling rings, utilizing a maze of countries and transport methods.
她的团伙也是最赚钱的人口走私团伙之一，其结构错综复杂，渠道遍布多个国家，涉及多种交通手段。
She charged a hefty price — as much as $35,000 or more per person — and her life story became well known: her childhood in the village of Shengmei, learning the smuggling trade from her father, then moving to New York in 1982 and setting up an illegal banking network that helped immigrants wire money to China.
她的偷渡网络收费不菲，达到每人3.5万美元甚至更高。她的人生经历也变得人尽皆知，她在盛美村度过童年，从父亲那里学习了经营人口走私的生意，然后在1982年搬到纽约，建立了非法的银行网络，帮助移民把钱汇往中国。
After the Golden Venture disaster, Ms. Cheng fled the United States. She was arrested in 2000 in Hong Kong and eventually tried in federal court in Manhattan. She was serving a 35-year sentence after being convicted in 2006 of smuggling charges in 2006.
在“金色冒险号”发生海难后，郑翠萍逃离了美国。2000年，她在香港被捕，最终在曼哈顿的联邦法院接受了审判。2006年，她因人口走私罪名成立，被判处35年监禁，之后一直在服刑。
One crime detailed by prosecutors occurred in 1998, when one of her smuggling operations resulted in the drowning deaths of 14 people after their ship capsized off Guatemala.
检方指控的一宗刑事案件发生在1998年。当时，她操控的一起人口走私行动中，偷渡者乘坐的船只在危地马拉海岸附近倾覆，导致了14人溺亡。
Lawrence Hochheiser, who represented Ms. Cheng in the trial, said that Ms. Cheng had many supporters among Chinese immigrants because, “They felt she was taking people out of poverty and giving them a chance to get a better life.”
郑翠萍的庭审辩护律师劳伦斯·霍克海瑟(Lawrence Hochheiser)表示，她在中国移民中拥有许多支持者，因为“他们感觉她是在帮助乡亲摆脱贫困，给他们提供了过上更好生活的机会。”
According to Patrick Radden Keefe, who wrote about Ms. Ping in his 2009 book, “The Snakehead: An Epic Tale of the Chinatown Underworld and the American Dream,” Ms. Cheng became “a real sui generis New York character.”
据帕特里克·拉登·基夫(Patrick Radden Keefe)所述，郑翠萍成了“纽约市别具一格的大人物”。基夫在他2009年出版的书《蛇头：华埠黑社会与美国梦的传奇》(The Snakehead: An Epic Tale of the Chinatown Underworld and the American Dream)当中描写过郑翠萍。
“She was never quite as bad as the Justice Department made her out to be, and never quite as good as people in Chinatown made her out to be,” he said.
他说，“她绝不像美国司法部刻画得那么坏，也绝不像华埠的人得那么好。”
Although Ms. Cheng became synonymous with the Golden Venture, only two passengers on the ship were hers — one of whom died from the wreck, Mr. Keefe said.
基夫说，尽管郑翠萍这个名字成了“金色冒险号”的代名词，但那艘船上只有两名偷渡者是她的客户，其中一人在船只失事时丧生。
At Ms. Cheng’s old restaurant, Yung Sun, still operated by her husband, Cheung Yick Tak, and daughter Monica, relatives gathered Sunday to discuss funeral arrangements. They refused to comment.
郑翠萍的丈夫张亦德依然经营着旧有的榕信酒家(Yung Sun)。周日，张亦德、女儿莫妮卡(Monica)和亲属聚集在一起，讨论葬礼安排事宜。他们拒绝发表评论。
“When she was alive, no one came to ask us about her,” said one family member who refused to give his name.
一名拒绝透露姓名的亲属说，“她在世时，没有一个人来找我们过问她的事情。”
Upstairs, in a small office, Zheng Xiuxiang, who is from the same village as Ms. Cheng, compiled a list of names of grieving supporters who had called him.
在楼上一间窄小的办公室里，与郑翠萍同村的郑秀祥（音译）在汇总一份名单，罗列了谁曾致电吊唁。
“There has never been an outpouring of this magnitude,” he said. “Sister Ping was good and honest, and her warmth moved everyone.”
他说，“大家从来没有流露过如此沉痛的感情。萍姐是一个耿直的好人，她的友善感动了所有人。”