The cash registers of many gas stations never sleep. “I was there seven days a week, 12 hours a day, 84 hours minimum. Minimum,” said Chitra KC, 35, who worked in a station on Sunrise Highway in Holbrook, N.Y. He is one of about 27 immigrant workers from Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan or India with wage claims against stations on Long Island owned by Steve Keshtgar, who filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 on Dec. 24.
许多加油站的收费员从不睡觉。“我在那里一周工作七天，一天12小时，一周最少工作84小时，最少啊，”现年35岁的奇特拉·KC(Chitra KC)说。他在纽约州霍尔布鲁克的日出高速公路上的一座加油站工作，是向史蒂夫·科什特噶尔(Steve Keshtgar)在长岛拥有的多家加油站讨薪的大约27名移民雇员之一。这些员工分别来自尼泊尔、孟加拉、巴基斯坦和印度，而科什特噶尔去年12月24日根据《破产法》第11章申请了破产。
Chitra KC said he was owed 10 weeks’ salary — about $8,600 — some of which he would like to use to help family members in Nepal who are recovering from the recent earthquakes. Other employees say they were pressed into renting beds in homes in Coram and Central Islip in Suffolk County that were owned by a manager for several gas stations.
奇特拉说，他被拖欠了10个星期的薪水——约8600美元（约合5.3万元人民币）——他本来想用其中的一部分钱来帮助最近在尼泊尔地震中受灾的家人。还有一些员工表示，他们被迫挤住在萨福克县的科勒姆和中央艾斯利普的租来的床位上，而这些床位的所有者管理着多座加油站。
“He had 25 or 30 people sleeping in the garage, in the kitchen, in the living room,” Chitra KC said. “When the night-shift workers left for their jobs, the day-shift people took the beds.”
“他让25到30个人睡在车库、厨房和起居室里，”奇特拉说。“夜班工人去上班了之后，就换白班工人睡在床上。”
This rental scheme and the unpaid wages were the work of a “rogue” general manager, said Michael Macco, the bankruptcy lawyer for the gas station owner, who maintained that the manager was responsible for distributing paychecks.
加油站所有者科什特噶尔的破产律师迈克尔·马可(Michael Macco)说，这种租用机制以及拖欠工资的行为都是一个“无赖”总经理的杰作。科什特噶尔坚称这名经理负责发放薪水。
Immigrants are the pilings of the New York economy, the providers of low-cost, seamless comforts like 24-hour takeout food, cheap nail salons, all-night gas stations, nonunion construction workers. Some entered the United States legally; others did not. The ability of unscrupulous employers to steal wages can take your breath away.
移民是纽约经济的支柱，他们提供了低成本和周到舒适的服务，比如24小时的外卖、廉价的美甲沙龙、通宵营业的加油站，以及不加入工会的建筑工。有些人进入美国是合法的，另外一些则不是。毫无道德底线的雇主窃取员工薪资的手段会让你瞠目结舌。
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Monday that he would seek new rules and issue orders requiring improved health precautions and wage protections for employees in nail parlors and other branches of what is known as the “appearance enhancement” industry. He acted in response to a report in The New York Times on exploitation of workers in the nail parlors.
州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)周一宣布，将寻求颁布新的法规和命令，要求改善美甲沙龙等“美容”业机构的医疗预防和薪资保护工作。他的举动是对《纽约时报》关于美甲沙龙员工受剥削的报道做出的回应。
The governor has made a respectable start, deploying tools already at his power and seeking more from the State Legislature. But it adds up to not much more than a baby step: The trail of abuse runs deep in the construction and restaurant worlds.
州长带来了一个很好的开始，动用了他已经掌握的工具，并在寻求州议会的支持。但这些努力加在一起也只是杯水车薪：建筑和餐饮行业的不法现象已是根深蒂固。
As of the end of 2013, at least $125 million in unpaid judgments and orders for wage reimbursements had piled up over the previous 10 years, according to a study released in March, “Empty Judgments: The Wage Collection Crisis in New York.”
根据今年3月发布的研究报告《空洞的裁决：纽约的讨薪危机》(Empty Judgment: The Wage Collection Crisis in New York )，截至2013年底，之前10年所累积的没有执行的判决和裁定的工资赔偿，已达到至少1.25亿美元。
The laws are clear on minimum wages and overtime, and it is also evident that people inclined to beat the law can do so. A coalition of public interest legal groups and labor advocates, which issued the study, argues that the enforcement system needs more teeth — an ability to make sure that assets are not hidden away when a claim appears to be valid. A bill incorporating those measures, including a lien for unpaid wages, has been presented to the Legislature by Assemblywoman Linda B. Rosenthal and State Senator José R. Peralta.
法律对最低工资和加班费做了明确规定，但爱钻法律空子的人显然也有自己的办法。发布这份报告的是一家由公众利益法律团体和倡导劳工权益的人士组成的联盟。他们认为，执法体系需要更大的实权——当讨薪主张看来合理合法时，能够保证被追讨者的资产不会被隐藏。州众议员琳达·B·罗森塔尔(Linda B. Rosenthal)和州参议员何塞·R·佩拉尔塔(José R. Peralta)向议会提交了一项包括这些举措的提案，其中涵盖了针对拖欠工资的留置权。
Asked about the governor’s position on the bill, Mr. Cuomo’s counsel, Alphonso David, said he would review the legislation.
当被问到州长对该提案的立场时，库默的法律代表阿方索·B·戴维(Alphonso B. David)表示，他将对这项立法进行审核。
“Where we are, generally, is we want to increase the tools available to state agencies to make sure that workers are paid appropriate wages,” Mr. David said. In the last three years, he said, the state has increased the amount of money it has recovered for employees and reduced the percentage of deadbeat businesses.
“总体而言，我们希望增加可供州级机构使用的工具，从而确保劳动者能获得恰当的报酬，”戴维说。他还表示，过去三年里，纽约州提高了帮雇员追讨的工资金额，并减少了赖账企业所占比例。
There are still plenty of opportunities to get away with cheating.
然而，要想瞒天过海，仍然存在大把机会。
David Colodny, a supervising attorney with the Urban Justice Center, described a case that was still underway, and asked that the names not be revealed until the settlement discussions were completed.
城市司法中心(Urban Justice Center)的指导律师戴维·科洛德尼(David Colodny)提供了一个仍在进行中的案例。他要求对相关姓名保密，直到完成和解谈判。
The facts, though, are not contested.
不过，其中的事实不存在任何争议。
A cook in a Korean restaurant in Queens who worked six days a week for less than the minimum wage and with no overtime filed a lawsuit. The restaurant owners offered to pay him $45,000 plus legal fees of $8,400. The cook agreed to this. Before the judgment was officially entered in the court file, the owners — a husband and wife — transferred their principal asset, a house in Bayside with no mortgage, to their son for $0. Mr. Colodny filed a new claim for “fraudulent conveyance,” a process that could take years.
皇后区一家韩国餐厅的一名厨师每周需要工作六天，报酬不及最低工资，而且没有加班费。此人提起了诉讼。餐厅老板提出给他4.5万美元，再加上8400美元的律师费。厨师表示同意。但是在裁决被正式纳入法庭文件之前，餐厅老板——一对夫妇——把他们的主要资产以零美元转移到了他们的儿子名下。这项资产是贝塞的一栋房子，没有房贷。科洛德尼以“欺诈性产权转让”为由提出了新的索赔，但整套法律程序可能要持续数年。