The question of who, if anyone, lives in the multimillion-dollar condominiums being built across Manhattan grows more intriguing with every new tower crane that hoists glass slabs and concrete blocks hundreds of feet into the sky.
随着越来越多的塔式起重机将玻璃板和混凝土砖块抬升至数百英尺的高空，百万美元级别的共管公寓正在曼哈顿各地拔地而起。于是一个问题也引起了越来越多的人关注：那些公寓里究竟住了什么人呢？其实究竟有没有人住，都还是个问题。
New Yorkers want to know: Who are these people who hide behind limited liability companies while shelling out a fortune for a condominium — who see the apartment as an investment or even just a vanity play, and who are too busy sunning in St. Bart’s or skiing in Gstaad to actually show up and shop at the local market or pay for tickets to a Broadway show?
纽约人想要知道：究竟是什么人，隐身在有限责任公司的背后，对共管公寓倾注万贯家财——他们把公寓看成一种投资、甚至只是炫富的手段；他们成天忙着在圣巴塞罗缪医院（St. Bart’s，欧洲历史最久远的医院——译注）做日光浴，或在格施塔德(Gstaad)滑雪，以至于都没有时间过来露个脸，到本地的市场里赶赶集，或者购买一张百老汇的门票。
Many well-heeled New Yorkers are frustrated that while a large share of their income goes to taxes of all kinds, their non-New Yorker neighbors down the street pay a comparatively minuscule amount in property taxes. And an evening stroll through Midtown is starting to feel like the Wild West after the gold rush, with buildings like the Plaza — officially the Plaza Pied a Terre Hotel Condominiums — sitting mostly dark. It wouldn’t surprise some of us to see tumbleweed blow by the Apple cube on Fifth Avenue.
很多富裕的纽约人感到恼火：他们收入中的很大一部分都被用来缴纳各种各样的税费，而同住在一条街的外地邻居们，却只需缴纳相对较少的房产税。而且每次在中城区(Midtown)散步，你就会感到这里就像淘金热过后的狂野西部，像广场大厦（the Plaza，官方名称是“广场短住酒店式共管公寓”[Plaza Pied a Terre Hotel Condominiums]）这样的建筑，几乎是漆黑一片。就算第五大道(the Fifth Avenue)上的苹果专卖店(the Apple cube)旁边长了草，有些人也不会觉得奇怪。
As it turns out, this is not just hyperbole.
事实证明，这并不是夸张。
In a three-block stretch of Midtown, from East 56th Street to East 59th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue, 57 percent, or 285 of 496 apartments, including co-ops and condos, are vacant at least 10 months a year. From East 59th Street to East 63rd Street, 628 of 1,261 homes, or almost 50 percent, are vacant the majority of the time, according to data from the Census Bureau’s 2012 American Community Survey.
中城区的一片覆盖三个街区的地带——第五大道和公园大道(Park Avenue)之间、从东56街一直到东59街的范围内，共有496套公寓，包括合作公寓和共管公寓。其中有285套(57%)在一年当中至少有10个月是空置的；从东59街到东63街的范围内，共有1261套住房，其中有628套（将近50%）大部分时间是空置的。上述数据源自联邦统计局(Census Bureau)发布的《2012年美国社区调查》(2012 American Community Survey)。
“My district has some of the most expensive land values in the world — I’m ground zero for the issue of foreign buyers,” said State Senator Liz Krueger, whose district includes Midtown. “I met with a developer who is building one of those billionaire buildings on 57th Street and he told me, ‘Don’t worry, you won’t need any more services, because the buyers won’t be sending their kids to school here, there won’t be traffic.’  ”
“我所代表的地区当中，有一些地段的地价是全世界最贵的——我就身处外国买家置业问题的原爆点上，”州参议员利兹·克鲁格(Liz Krueger)说，她代表的地区包括中城区，“我结识了一位开发商，第57街那些面向亿万富豪的楼盘当中，有一个就是他开发的。他跟我说，‘别担心，你不需要提供更多的服务设施，因为买家根本不会把孩子送到这里来上学，这里不会有什么车流的。’”
The developer told her that the buyers basically would never be here, Ms. Krueger said. “He said it like this was a positive thing,” she added. “You can’t make this stuff up.”
克鲁格说，开发商告诉她，基本上，买家根本不会到这里来。“他说话的口气就好像这是件好事一样，”她补充道，“这种事情你是编不出来的。”
While the Census Bureau data is illuminating, it does not drill down into individual buildings. This is not easily done, although one method is to track a city property tax break given only to full-time residents. In years past, the 17.5 percent tax abatement was widely available for owners of cooperatives and condominiums, but after a rule change was enacted last year, only those who are deemed primary residents are eligible to claim it.
虽然联邦统计局的数据很能说明问题，但它还没有具体到单个楼盘。这并不容易做到，不过有一种方法，就是去调查有哪些住户享受到了只有常住住户(full-time resident)才能享受的城市房产税减免优惠。到去年之前，这项幅度为17.5%的减税优惠，广泛适用于合作公寓和共管公寓的房主；但是在去年政策发生变化后，只有被认定为主要居住者(primary resident)的居民才有资格享受这一优惠。
Tracking this tax abatement can turn up some interesting details. Take the Trump Tower at 721 Fifth Avenue, between East 56th Street and East 57th Street. The building has 237 units, with some priced at more than $25 million. As of last year, 211 apartments claimed the tax abatement, but this year, as a result of the rule change, the city decided that only 108 apartments were eligible, according to figures from the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan city agency. That is a drop of nearly 50 percent and means that fewer than half of the apartments in the building are primary residences.
通过调查这一减税优惠的实施情况，我们可以发现一些有趣的细节。以第五大道721号的川普大厦(Trump Tower)为例。川普大厦位于东56街和东57街之间，共有237套单元，其中一些单元的价格超过2500万美元（约合人民币1.5亿元）。去年有211套公寓申请减税，但是今年，由于政策的改变，市政府认定只有108套公寓具备资格。上述数据源于独立预算办公室(Independent Budget Office)，是一个无党派的市政府机构。这样一来，减税房减少了近50%，同时意味着，该楼盘里只有不到半数公寓的住户是主要居住者。
At the Plaza, of 163 condominiums, only 58, or about one-third of them, now receive the abatement for full-time residents.
而在广场大厦的163套共管公寓当中，只有58套——或者说三分之一的公寓获得了面向常住住户的减税优惠。
Some of the city’s most exclusive addresses, such as 15 Central Park West and One57, receive a far more lucrative tax break — the so-called 421a tax exemption — and so they cannot be tracked this way.
纽约市最著名的一些楼盘，如中央公园西(Central Park West)15号和One57，享有幅度高得多的税收减免优惠，也就是所谓的“421a免税条款”，所以它们无法通过这种方式统计。
George Sweeting, the deputy director of the Independent Budget Office, said the agency plans to look further into how tracking the tax abatement for primary residents could shed light on the number of pieds-à-terre across the city.
独立预算办公室副主任乔治·史威汀(George Sweeting)说，独立预算办公室将以主要居住者享有的减税优惠为突破口，进一步调查纽约市临时住所的数量。
It is an important endeavor, according to Brad Hoylman, the state senator who is proposing legislation to charge an additional tax to owners of expensive pieds-à-terre. According to the proposal, owners of a pied-à-terre priced between $5 million and $6 million would pay 0.5 percent of the amount over the $5 million threshold in annual taxes. This would gradually increase, capping off at properties of more than $25 million, where the owner would pay a $370,000 annual fee plus 4 percent of the amount over $25 million.
州参议员布拉德·赫尔曼(Brad Hoylman)说，这是一个重要的举措。赫尔曼提交了一个法案，拟对购买高价房产作为临时住所的房主，征收一项额外的税费。根据这项提案，如果这类房主所购单元的价值在500到600万美元（约合人民币3058到3670万元），那么房主每年需要对超过500万美元的部分支付0.5%的临时住所税。而且税负呈阶梯状上升，最高梯度是超过2500万美元（约合人民币1.5亿元）的房产，其房主每年需要支付的费用可达到37万美元（约合人民币226万元）；同时对于售价超过2500万美元的部分，还需交纳4%的税。
While the owners could be wealthy New Yorkers who happen to own a primary residence uptown, say, and a secondary apartment downtown, many who would be targeted by this new tax would be non-New York residents. These nonresidents typically do not pay New York’s hefty income taxes and instead pay just a small fraction of their apartment’s value in property taxes. Property taxes here are based on a complex equation related to rental values and can be very low. At One57, for example, a unit that sold for nearly $3.6 million is estimated by the city to have a market value of just $430,000 when calculating its property tax.
虽然这些房主也有可能是纽约本地的富翁，他们可能刚好在城外有个主要住所，又在城内买了第二套公寓，但是新税种针对的许多目标群体将是非纽约市居民。这些非居民一般无须负担纽约繁重的收入税，只需支付占公寓价值一小部分的房产税。房产税的计算基于一套复杂的公式，其数额可能会非常低。比如在One57，有一套售价将近360万美元（约合人民币2200万元）的公寓单元，市政府在计算其房产税时，对其市价的估值仅为43万美元（约合人民币263万元）。
“The pied-à-terre tax is seen by New York’s wealthiest 1 percent as a question of fairness,” said James Parrott, the chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, who first made the proposal for the tax on which Mr. Hoylman based his legislation. “Here they are in the top tax bracket paying the top New York City and New York State income tax rates, but these non-primary residents are just paying property taxes, and the effective property tax rates are so incredibly low.”
“临时住所税被纽约最富裕的那1%群体视为一个事关公平的问题，”财政政策研究所(Fiscal Policy Institute)的首席经济学家詹姆斯·帕洛特(James Parrott)说。赫尔曼提出的那项法案，就是根据他先草拟出的一份征收临时住所税的提案形成的，“他们负担着纽约市和纽约州梯度最高的收入税；而那些非主要居住者只需支付房产税，而且实际的房产税税率又低得令人难以置信。”
Before Mr. Parrott released his proposal earlier this year, “I heard more about the need for a pied-à-terre tax from high-income New York City residents than anybody else.”
今年早些时候，在帕洛特递交他的提案之前，“我发现，纽约市高收入居民对临时住所税的呼声超出了其他任何群体。”
Although Mr. Hoylman is not interested in leveling the playing field among the very rich, he is concerned that “these property owners aren’t paying their fair share of taxes.”
虽然为超级富豪创造公平的纳税环境，并不是赫尔曼关心的问题，但他关心的是，“那些房主缴纳的税额还不够多。”
“The city is leaving considerable money on the table by having such an abundance of these types of properties that are owned by nonresidents,” he said.
“放着那么多在纽约拥有房产的非居民不管，市政府相当于把很大一笔钱留在桌上不去拿。”他说。
But there could be stumbling blocks to passing a tax on expensive pieds-à-terre. Chief among them may be the issue of its constitutionality.
但是，要想通过立法对那些昂贵的临时住所征税，可能会遇到绊脚石。最大的障碍，就是是否符合宪法的问题。
“If you said you are going to impose a special surcharge on apartments that are worth more than $20 million, that would be perfectly legal,” said Peter L. Faber, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery. “But the problem comes when you start imposing a special tax on nonresidents. That is unconstitutional under the interstate commerce clause.”
“如果你说，要对价值超过2000万美元（约合人民币1.2亿元）的公寓征收特别的附加税费，那是完全合法的，” McDermott Will & Emery律师事务所的合伙人彼得·L·费伯(Peter L. Faber)说，“但是如果你说，要开始对非居民征收特别税，问题就来了。这在州际贸易条款下是违宪的。”
Mr. Hoylman’s proposal does not specifically target nonresidents. But because the majority of those who would be paying the tax would most likely be non-primary residents, it could still be legally questionable, said Mr. Faber, who was the former chairman of the American Bar Association’s Section of Taxation. “It could be similar to the voter ID case in Texas, where the judge ruled that even though it wasn’t explicit, in effect it discriminated against minorities,” he said.
赫尔曼的法案并没有特别针对非居民。但是据费伯尔说，由于大多数征税对象很可能是非主要居住者，这一法案在法律上可能依然有争议性。费伯尔曾是美国律师协会(American Bar Association)税法部(Section of Taxation)部长。“这可能类似于德克萨斯州的选民身份证案，审理那个案件的法官认为，尽管选民身份证法的歧视意味并不明显，但它实际上构成了对少数民族的歧视。”他说。