On the first June day to cross the 75-degree mark, the line at Chinatown Ice Cream Factory snaked out the door and under the bright yellow awning with a dragon eating ice cream on it. Groups of customers ate from cups and cones nearby, blocking sections of Bayard Street in Manhattan.
6月里，第一个气温超过75华氏度（约合24摄氏度）的日子，华埠雪糕行(Chinatown Ice Cream Factory)的顾客队伍就蜿蜒到了门外。顾客头顶上方是一顶亮黄色的遮阳篷，上面画着一只正在吃冰激凌的龙。附近，一群群客户正在享用杯装和甜筒冰激凌，把曼哈顿贝阿德街的一些路段围得不能通行。
Inside the long, narrow store, four employees and the owner, Philip Seid, were hustling behind the counter, scooting around one another to scoop from more than two dozen flavors.
狭长的店铺内，四名员工和老板赵汝义(Philip Seid)正在柜台后忙得不可开交。他们在彼此身边快速移动，从装着20多种口味冰激凌的冰柜里舀出球来。
Cones and cups of black sesame, cookies and cream, mint chip and taro moved briskly. Lychee is the most popular flavor, but durian, a fruit famous for being banned in hotels and on public transit in parts of Asia for its pungent smell, is a favorite when it’s in stock.
黑芝麻、曲奇奶油、薄荷和香芋味的冰激凌卖得很快。荔枝味最受欢迎，但是如果店里供应榴莲味的话，也会成为最受欢迎的口味之一。榴莲是一种气味刺鼻的水果，因为在亚洲部分地区的酒店和公共交通工具上被禁而出名。
“Some people can’t get enough of it,” Mr. Seid said.
“有人就是吃不够，” 赵汝义说。
Matt Kigler, 22, was out with friends looking for ice cream when they came across Chinatown Ice Cream Factory. He tried a sample of durian before ordering a cup of it and said he understands the appeal. The pale yellow ice cream isn’t as potent-smelling as the fruit but packs much of the same punch.
和朋友一起外出的22岁的马特·基格勒(Matt Kigler)正在寻找冰激凌，然后偶然发现了华埠雪糕行。他在试吃了榴莲味的冰激凌之后买了一杯，并表示自己能够理解它的吸引力。这种淡黄色冰激凌的气味不像榴莲本身那么强烈，但口感的冲击力却相差无几。
“It tasted like it smelled — horrible at first,” Mr. Kigler said. “But after a few seconds it gets better.”
“它吃起来就像闻起来那样——刚开始很可怕，”基格勒说。“但几秒钟过后，就好吃起来了。”
Mr. Seid, 65, opened the store along with his brothers in 1977, the year of the Snake. (The awning out front says “Since 1978”; it’s wrong.) Scoops were 45 cents, and Chinatown, where he grew up, was much smaller. “I grew up when Chinatown was like two blocks,” said Mr. Seid, whose grandfather emigrated from China to New York in the early 1900s.
赵汝义现年65岁。1977年，也就是蛇年的时候，他和几个兄弟一起开了这家店。（店铺外的遮阳篷上写的是“始于1978”，并不准确。）当时冰激凌球是45美分一个，而且唐人街的规模也要小很多。他就是在那里长大的。“当时唐人街好像只有两个街区，”赵汝义说。上世纪初，他的祖父从中国移民来到纽约。
Chinatown has grown, his brothers have moved on and scoops are now $4.35. It is still, however, a family-run operation. Mr. Seid’s daughter, Christina, manages the store with her father.
唐人街的规模扩大了，他的兄弟们离开了店铺，现在冰激凌球也已经涨到了4.35美元。不过，这家店仍然保持着家庭经营的模式。赵汝义的女儿赵样爱(Christina)在与父亲一同打理店铺。
Ms. Seid, 35, is responsible for one of the store’s great quirks. The Asian-inspired ice creams are called “original” flavors while chocolate and vanilla are labeled “exotic.” Ms. Seid said she changed it one day as a joke but it stuck.
35岁的赵样爱创造了这家店最大的一个特色：亚洲风味的冰激凌被称作“正宗”口味，而巧克力和香草则被列为“异域”口味。赵样爱说，有一天她开了个玩笑，把标牌改成了这样，但是这种分类方法最后留了下来。
“Customers were taking so many pictures of the sign, so we decided to keep it that way,” she said.
“顾客给这个标牌拍了好多照片，所以我们决定保持这样，”她说。
Justin Li and Jonathan Li, brothers who live in the neighborhood, were picking up a lychee, mango and red bean ice-cream cake for Justin’s 14th birthday. (Ice cream cakes are a big draw for regulars; the shop sells as many as 200 every week, mostly with “original” flavors as layers.) Jonathan, 19, said this was the third birthday they had come to Chinatown Ice Cream Factory for his brother. He was carrying the cake, but his parents had paid the $18.99. “Big brother doesn’t have much money,” he said.
住在附近的贾斯汀·李(Justin Li)和乔纳森·李(Jonathan Li)取走了一个荔枝、芒果和红豆口味的冰激凌蛋糕。这是为贾斯汀的14岁生日准备的。（对于常客来说，冰激凌蛋糕极具吸引力；华埠雪糕行每周要卖出多达200个蛋糕，其中大部分都覆盖着一层层的“正宗”口味冰激凌。）19岁的乔纳森说，这是他们第三次来华埠雪糕行给弟弟买生日蛋糕。东西是他拿着，但购买蛋糕的18.99美元是父母给的。“哥哥可没什么钱，”他说。
Even when the weather was less hospitable — on the following Sunday, it was rainy all morning, then horribly muggy — the shop was still a destination. Much of the line outside the store was made up of people clutching maps and wearing cameras around their necks. One such group, from Seoul, South Korea, comprised Hyejin Park, 24, Hyunhee Kang, 22, and Hyojeong Park, 21. The three women said they had been sightseeing around the city but came to Chinatown specifically for the ice cream, which they had learned about from a South Korean site about New York.
即使天气状况不那么怡人——接下来的周日，整个上午都在下雨，而且异常闷热——华埠雪糕行仍然是游客向往的地方。商店门外的队伍里，大多数顾客手里抓着地图，脖子上挂着相机。其中一组人来自韩国首尔，包括24岁的朴海珍（Hyejin Park，音）、22岁的姜玄熙（Hyunhee Kang，音）和21岁的朴晓郑（Hyojeong Park，音）。三位姑娘表示，她们在纽约游览观光，这次是专门来华埠这家店吃冰激凌的。她们从韩国的一个关于纽约的网站上知道了这家店。
“They’re famous,” Hyejin Park said. “When you talk about New York, people tell you that you should go here.”
“他们很有名，”朴海珍说。“在提到纽约的时候，人们都会告诉你，应该去华埠雪糕行看看。”