Every morning, Ming Yi Chen walks down to the basement of Pearl River Mart, the Chinese department store he opened in 1971, and burns incense. Then he walks back to the first floor to light more incense. He breathes in the sandalwood, to him a calming scent. And the day can begin.
每天早晨，程明怡(Ming Yi Chen)下到珠江百货(Pearl River Mart)的地下室里点上香，这是他1971年开办的一家中国店。然后，他回到店的一层，点上更多的香。他吸了一口带檀香味的空气，对他来说，那气味令人平静。新的一天就这样开始了。
With the news this week that Pearl River Mart, at 477 Broadway in SoHo, would close in December because of a significant rent increase and an unsustainable business model, it became clear that Mr. Chen’s routine — and those of his 40 employees — would soon disappear into the capitalist cloud.
坐落纽约苏荷区百老汇大道477号的珠江百货，由于租金猛涨，以及不可持续的商业模式，将于12月歇业的消息表明，程明怡及其40名雇员的日常生活将很快消失在资本主义的乌云里。
“There are people waiting for this space,” Mr. Chen, 76, said from the tea balcony, overlooking a floor that stretches from Broadway to Mercer Street, 30,000 square feet in all. “Maybe H & M, one of those big chains — with big pockets.”
“有人在等着这个地方，”现年76岁的程明怡说，他坐在店里的茶楼上，眼看着这片位于百老汇大道和美世街(Mercer Street)之间的、面积达3万平方英尺(约合2787平方米)的铺面。“也许是H&M，或某个财力雄厚的大连锁店。”
It is fair to say that those big-pocketed stores do not offer the soundtrack of traditional Chinese music and tweeting birds, nor do they display lanterns, gongs and 60-foot-long paper dragons amid waterfalls. From the soy sauce and Chinese underwear that were lifelines for homesick Chinese immigrants to the slippers and qipao dresses that became staples for New York fashionistas, Pearl River Mart tells a lesser-known tale that is more than the sum of its dry goods.
可以恰当地说，那些财力雄厚的商店不会有中国传统音乐和吱喳鸟鸣的配乐，也不会展示灯笼、锣，以及悬挂在瀑布之间的长达60英尺的纸龙。从货架上的酱油，以及对想家的中国移民来说是生命线的中国内衣，到那些成了纽约时尚人士家常便饭的拖鞋和旗袍，珠江百货讲述了一个鲜为人知的故事，这个故事远远超过其商品的总和。
Run with a strong, nurturing hand by Mr. Chen’s wife, Ching Yeh Chen, 68, Pearl River has provided a life for its immigrant workers for four decades. It has been a welcome alternative to restaurant and supermarket jobs for new immigrants, a place where Cantonese and Mandarin were spoken and employee banquets were held every year. The store, overseen by a board of trustees and 30 shareholders, has helped some workers apply for green cards, once had a matching 401(k) plan and still offers health insurance.
在程明怡既干练又慈爱的太太朱敬业（英文名Ching Yeh Chen，现年68岁）的管理下，珠江百货40多年来，给在商店工作的移民提供了更好的生活。对新移民来说，这里的工作一直是比饭馆和超市工作更好的选择，这里可以讲广东话和普通话，店里每年还举办员工聚餐。这家商店由一个董事会和30名股东监管，它帮助过一些工人申请绿卡，还曾为员工退休金计划提供匹配金，直到现在仍为员工提供医疗保险。
“We are probably one of the few pioneer companies that does that in Chinatown — I’m proud to say that,” Mrs. Chen, the president, said of the insurance plan. “Most of Chinatown, everything is in cash. In that sense, we are pretty fair, and people will stay here long enough.” (The store has been in four locations, including Canal Street.)
总经理朱敬业提到医疗保险时说，“我们可能是中国城的公司中，少有的几家带头者之一，我可以自豪地这样说。在中国城，所有的东西都是现金交易。在这个意义上，我们很公平，工人在这里工作的时间也足够长。”（商店搬过四次家，曾位于坚尼街 [Canal Street]。）
Often, two generations have worked side by side, and some employees have turned a job stocking shelves into a lifelong career.
经常是两代人同在店里工作，有些雇员还把给货架上货的工作变成了人生职业。
“I’ve been with the Chens since I immigrated to the United States, as a part-time worker,” Wilkie Wong, 50, said. He had just arrived from Burma in 1982 and was attending Seward Park High School on the Lower East Side. Mrs. Chen knew a school counselor and asked her for part-time employees. Mr. Wong showed up with two of his classmates; now he is the company’s vice president.
50岁的威尔基·黄(Wilkie Wong)说，“自从我移民美国以来，就一直在店里工作，一开始是临时工。”他1982年从缅甸移民美国，当时还在下东区苏渥公园高中(Seward Park High School)上学。朱敬业认识学校的一位辅导老师，向她询问了有没有人想打工。黄先生和两位同学来到店里，现在他是百货店的副总经理。
Asked about the store’s closing, Mr. Wong said, “I have mixed feelings.” He just got an office with a window two years ago, he explained. A graduate of the State University of New York at Buffalo with a degree in economics and international trade, he had been doing the accounting in a separate basement office on Wooster Street.
当被问及商店要关门的消息时，黄先生说，“我百感交集。”他解释说，他两年前刚搬进了一个有窗户的办公室。他从纽约州立大学布法罗分校获得经济学和国际贸易学位毕业后，一直在百货店在伍斯特街(Wooster Street)的另一个地下办公室里从事会计的工作。
But the future concerns him. Mrs. Chen said she would like to move to smaller quarters, downsize the inventory and, to better compete with Amazon, boost the online business, which Mr. Wong directs. “If we continue, he’s still with us,” she said.
但他对未来有点担心。朱敬业说，她会考虑把商店搬到更小的地方去，缩减库存，并提高网上业务，以更好地与亚马逊竞争，黄先生是管理网上业务的。 “如果我们继续下去的话，他会留在这里，”她说。
But Mr. Wong’s 16-year-old son will not be joining him. “As an immigrant to the United States, it’s the same as my parents and every parent who wants their kids to have a high education, be a lawyer, doctor,” Mr. Wong said. “Even though I enjoy working here, I want him to have better than what I had.”
不过，黄先生16岁的儿子不会到店里工作。黄先生说，“作为美国移民，就像我的父母和所有父母一样，都希望子女受到更好的教育，当律师，当医生。虽然我喜欢这里的工作，但我希望他能得到比我得到的更多的东西。”
For some longtime employees, it might be time to move on. Lapyan Ng, 63, from Hong Kong, has worked at Pearl River for over 20 years. “Maybe I need to retire and take care of my granddaughter,” Mr. Ng said.
对于一些老员工来说，可能也是时候换个地方了。63岁的吴立仁（音译）来自香港，已经在珠江百货工作了20余年，他说，“或许我应该退休去照顾我孙女了。”
But he has many months to decide. In the meantime, shoppers are coming while they can. On Tuesday, the store was bustling more than at any time in the previous 12 years at this location, the Chens said. The social media buzz around the closing brought nostalgic, sympathetic customers angry at high rents forcing out another city institution.
但他还有好几个月的时间来做决定。在此期间，人们趁着店还在，纷纷来购物。程家人说，商店周二熙熙攘攘，比这个地方之前12年任何时候都更热闹。社交媒体上关于商店即将关门的大量消息，引来了怀旧且满怀同情的顾客，又一个在这里家喻户晓的地方因高昂租金而被迫消失，令他们感到愤怒。
In the beginning, Mr. Chen thought the venture might last only three years. Born in Taiwan, he was a political activist who left his doctoral studies in chemistry at the University of Wisconsin in 1971 to start a new kind of enterprise in New York. One of the store’s first items was Mao’s Little Red Book.
刚开始，程明怡认为这个商店可能只能开三年。生于台湾的他是一名政治活动人士。1971年，他放弃威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)化学博士的学业，在纽约开始了一项新的事业。毛泽东的小红本曾是商店的第一批货物。
When he picked up his first Hong Kong shipment of goods at the Red Hook port in Brooklyn, he said, he already sensed an imminent thawing of United States-China relations. But he never thought it would be such a revolution.
当他在布鲁克林的红钩码头收取第一批来自香港的货物时，他说自己已经感觉到中美关系解冻在即。但他从来没想到会是这样的一场革命。
This is what the trade landscape looks like now at Pearl River: Japanese ceramics are top-selling items. They come from an importer in Somerville, N.J., a second-generation Japanese company, that buys goods manufactured in China, Mrs. Chen said.
珠江百货的生意现状是：日式瓷器是最畅销商品。它们来自新泽西萨默维尔的一家进口商，朱敬业说，后者是由第二代日本移民开办的一家企业，他们购买的商品都是中国制造的。
The inventory, Mrs. Chen admitted, is probably too saturated with products available elsewhere — like Chinese dried noodles — but Pearl River still has its own niche. Next week comes the first pick of Longjing green tea, a delicacy direct from the Chens’ private source of farmers in China. “It’s authentic,” Mr. Chen said, laughing.
程明怡承认，库存中可能都是其他地方可以买到的商品——比如中国的挂面——但珠江百货还是拥有一些高档商品的。下周将会推出第一批采摘的龙井绿茶，这种上好的饮品是由程明怡在中国认识的农民直接供应的。“绝对正宗，”程明怡说完笑了起来。
He and his wife still work nine hours a day, six days a week. On Tuesday, he wore gloves to wrap two pallets of decorations headed to a new Chinese restaurant in Washington.
他和太太仍一周工作六天，每天九小时。周二，他戴上手套，包了两个货板的装饰用品，送到华盛顿一家新开的中餐馆。