The writer Charlotte Druckman and the photographer Melanie Dunea spend Sunday evenings at New York City dining establishments to find out what’s new with the people behind them.
作家夏洛特·德鲁克曼(Charlotte Druckman)和摄影师梅勒妮·杜尼亚(Melanie Dunea)周日夜晚在纽约市的一些名牌餐馆寻找美食新动向。    
It’s difficult for Michael Tong to explain why he chose to open Shun Lee Palace on East 55th Street in 1971 without delivering the unabridged history of Chinese restaurants in New York City (and, eventually, his role therein). Before 1965, he will tell you, 99 percent of the Chinese eateries in New York City were Cantonese. One was a place on East 23rd Street in Manhattan called Shun Lee, where, in the late ’50s, a chef named T.T. Wang, who’d previously cooked for the Taiwanese ambassador to the U.S., showed up to take over the kitchen and improve the menu.
迈克尔·董(Michael Tong)要先介绍一下纽约市中餐馆的简史，以及他在其中扮演的角色，才能解释1971年他为什么在东55街开了顺利宫餐馆(Shun Lee Palace)。他会告诉你，1965年之前，纽约市99%的中餐小饭馆都是粤菜馆。其中一个是曼哈顿东23街的顺利餐馆(Shun Lee)，50年代末，曾为台湾驻美大使做菜的大厨T·T·王(T.T. Wang)开始掌管那里的厨房，改进了菜单。
Next, Wang opened New Shun Lee in 1962 on the Upper West Side (which has since closed and become home to the original Carmine’s). There, he prepared a combination of food from Yangzhou, where he was born; Shanghai, where he trained; and Sichuan, whose cuisine has a pervasive influence on the other two locales.Wang essentially introduced New York to Yangzhou-Sichuan and Shanghai cooking — and with his next venture, Shun Lee Dynasty on Second Avenue at 48th Street in 1965, he served it up in a fine-dining atmosphere. It was at that location, in 1966, that Tong first met Wang when he started working as its manager. Under Tong’s watch, the New York Times dining critic Craig Claiborne put Shun Lee Dynasty in his New York Times Dining Guide in 1967 and gave it four stars, a first for a Chinese restaurant in New York City. “I am responsible for Craig Claiborne,” says Tong. “I served him for a year. I had no idea who he was.… Chinese people, we didn’t even know there was a food critic to give us stars!”
1962年，王在上西区开设了新顺利餐馆（New Shun Lee，新顺利后来关闭，店面成了最早的卡尔米内餐厅[Carmine’s]）。餐馆供应扬州菜、沪菜和川菜，因为他在扬州长大，在上海学厨，而川菜对前两个菜系有普遍影响。可以说，王把扬州菜、川菜和沪菜的烹饪方法介绍到了纽约。1965年，王在第二大道和48街交叉处又开了一个餐馆——顺利王朝(Shun Lee Dynasty)，这里的用餐环境比较高雅。1966年，董首次遇到王，开始担任顺利王朝的经理。1967年，《纽约时报》餐饮评论家克雷格·克莱本(Craig Claiborne)将顺利王朝餐馆列入他的《纽约时报餐饮指南》，给了它四颗星，使它成为第一个获此殊荣的纽约中餐馆。董亲眼见证了这个过程。“我负责接待克雷格·克莱本，”董说，“我为他服务了一年。当时我完全不知道他是谁……我们华人甚至不知道还有专门给餐馆评星级的美食评论家！”
Four years later, riding on that success and backed by the owners of Shun Lee Dynasty, Tong and Wang created Shun Lee Palace. Tong apparently had a hand in writing the menu. The chicken lettuce-wrap that’s still a favorite in 2014? “I invented that in 1971,” he says. “I don’t care if P.F. Chang uses it now.” In Hong Kong, the dish is traditionally prepared with squab, but Tong adapted it for squeamish New Yorkers who might flinch at the idea of minced pigeon in their tidy leaf-swaddled bundle.
四年后，凭借那次成功，以及顺利王朝餐馆所有者的支持，董和王又开了顺利宫餐馆(Shun Lee Palace)。董显然也参与了菜单制订。鸡肉生菜卷在2014年依然深受喜爱吗？“1971年，我发明了它，”他说，“我不在乎P.F. Chang餐馆现在是否也有这道菜。”在香港，这道菜传统上是用乳鸽做的，但是董为敏感的纽约人进行了改良——他们想到叶子里卷着切碎的鸽肉可能会感到害怕。
Wang died in 1983, and Tong remains the sole proprietor of the joint, whose spare ribs, Peking duck, slippery chicken and crispy shredded beef continue to draw a Sunday evening crowd. “From the 1970s until quite recently, this was one of the busiest night of the week,” he says, referring to the rise of takeout orders lately.
1983年王去世后，董成了这家合资餐馆唯一的主人，这里的排骨、北京烤鸭、滑嫩的鸡肉和酥脆的牛肉条继续在周日夜晚吸引众多食客。“从20世纪70年代直到最近，周日一直是一周中最忙的夜晚之一，”他说，最近外卖订单也在增多。