Ladies and gentlemen, clear your calendars and chug those double espressos: the 51st New York Film Festival is about to begin. Newly recharged, this venerated annual event has reigned supreme since 1963 as the city’s premier cinematic happening, and its lofty position remains secure.
女士们、先生们：清空你的日程，煮好双倍特浓咖啡：第51届纽约电影节开幕啦。这个备受尊敬的年度活动自1963年以来一直是纽约首屈一指的电影盛事，它的崇高地位至今无法撼动，而且充满了新的活力。
Then, the marquee names included Orson Welles, Robert Bresson and Chris Marker. This year’s stars include Spike Jonze, Jia Zhangke and, back again, the late, great Marker, whose 1960 film, “Description of a Struggle,” is one of 202 (!) titles in the festival’s avant-garde program. Also on tap: the latest from the guy who made “Love Actually” and a vast Jean-Luc Godard retrospective.
出席本次电影节的重要人物包括奥森·威尔斯(Orson Welles) 、罗伯特·布列松(Robert Bresson)和克里斯·马克(Chris Marker)。今年的明星包括斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)、贾樟柯以及刚才提到的伟大的马克，他1960年的影片《挣扎的描述》(Description of a Struggle)是本次电影节先锋单元的202(!)部影片之一。另外还有拍摄《真爱至上》(Love Actually)那家伙的最新作品以及让-吕克·戈达尔(Jean-Luc Godard)的全面回顾展。
The Godard survey (Oct. 9 through 30) can be seen as part of an inaugural statement of intent from Kent Jones in his first year as the festival’s director of programming. Although the retrospective might draw more patrons at another date, its scope — 51 features and 30 shorts, with possible additions to come — speaks to Mr. Jones’s ambitions for the festival, as does the genre, narrative and tonal diversity of all the selections. This year includes what may be an unprecedented number of comedies for what has, on occasion, sometimes felt like an event guided more by the desire to épater la bourgeoisie than to celebrate cinema.
戈达尔回顾展（10月9日至30日）可以被看做是肯特·琼斯(Kent Jones)第一年担任电影节项目规划总监的就职演说。虽然这个回顾展放在其他时候可能会吸引到更多赞助商，但是它的规模——51部故事片和30部短片，而且可能增加新的内容——透露出琼斯对这个电影节的雄心，另外所有这些入选影片的体裁、叙述方式和色调的多样性也反映了这一点。纽约电影节有时给人的感觉是为了震撼中产阶级，而不是为了赞美电影，不过今年入选的喜剧片数量是空前的。
The bourgeoisie is likely to be more rocked than shocked by the opening-night film, “Captain Phillips,” an electric moral tale from Paul Greengrass, who was at the festival in 2002 with “Bloody Sunday.” Based on yet another upsetting face-off, “Captain Phillips” revisits the true story of Richard Phillips (Tom Hanks), an American taken hostage in 2009 by Somalis who commandeered his cargo ship in the Indian Ocean. Surprising and satisfyingly complex, it opens as a tale of men and work, then revs up into a camera-shuddering thriller, only to deepen. It’s a tough, political look at power and the wretched of the earth and is likely to send at least some first-night revelers running for the Alice Tully bar.
电影节的开幕影片《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)可能会让中产阶级感到震惊，而不是震撼。这是保罗·格林格拉斯(Paul Greengrass)导演的一部令人震惊的道德寓言故事。格林格拉斯2002年曾携《血腥星期天》(Bloody Sunday)参加了本电影节。《菲利普斯船长》讲述的是另一场令人不安的对峙，再现了理查德·菲利普斯（Richard Phillips，汤姆·汉克斯[Tom Hanks]饰）的真实故事。2009年索马里海盗抓住美国人菲利普斯做人质，征用了他在印度洋上的货船。这部电影令人惊喜、十分复杂，开头讲述的是一群男人和他们的工作，而后快速发展为一个可怕的惊悚故事，之后越来越恐怖。它用严肃的政治眼光来审视权力和地球上那些悲惨的人，很可能至少会让一部分第一晚来电影节狂欢的人跑到Alice Tully酒吧压惊。
Other strong selections during the festival’s initial stretch are two of the movies of the year: “A Touch of Sin,” a harrowing, multithreaded drama about life, death and the wages of capitalism in China, from Mr. Jia, and the latest from Joel and Ethan Coen, the sublime “Inside Llewyn Davis.” Each played to acclaim at Cannes in May, as did another New York Film Festival highlight: “The Last of the Unjust,” a three-and-a-half-hour documentary from Claude Lanzmann about history and its responsibilities, hinged to Benjamin Murmelstein, the last president of the Jewish Council in the Theresienstadt ghetto in Czechoslovakia. “The Last of the Unjust” includes footage that Mr. Lanzmann shot for his 1985 opus, “Shoah,” but didn’t use. “The Last of the Unjust” has American distribution, as do most of the titles in the main slate.
电影节起始阶段的重点影片是今年的两部电影：贾樟柯的《天注定》(A Touch of Sin)以及乔尔和伊桑·科恩(Joel and Ethan Coen)令人赞叹的新片《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)。前者是一部关于生命、死亡和中国资本主义代价的多线索故事，令人痛心。两部电影都曾在5月份的戛纳电影节上获得好评。纽约电影节上的另一部重头戏《最后的不公平》(The Last of the Unjust)也是如此。它是克劳德·朗兹曼(Claude Lanzmann)的纪录片，长达三个半小时，通过捷克斯洛伐克特莱西恩施塔特集中营犹太委员会最后一位主席本杰明·穆勒斯坦因(Benjamin Murmelstein)的故事来讲述历史及其责任。《最后的不公平》中有一段朗兹曼先生为他1985年的作品《大屠杀》(Shoah)拍摄却未采用的连续镜头。该片将在美国上映，主单元的大部分影片都是如此。
Another main-slate selection, Frederick Wiseman’s “At Berkeley,” is an engrossing four-hour inquiry into the University of California, Berkeley, both as a bucolic stand-alone school and as part of a larger troubled institution. If you miss it, you can immerse yourself in the festival’s three separate documentary programs. The first, “Motion Portraits” (8 movies about people) starts on Saturday and is followed by “Applied Science” (three movies about projects) and “How Democracy Works Now” (10 features about immigration reform from Michael Camerini and Shari Robertson).
主单元的另一部影片是弗雷德里克·怀斯曼(Frederick Wiseman)的《在伯克利》(At Berkeley)，它是一部四小时长的引人入胜的纪录片，探究的是加州大学伯克利分校——它既是一个田园诗般的独立学校，也是问题重重的教育体系的一部分。你如果错过了这部纪录片，可以观看电影节另外三个彼此独立的纪录片单元。第一个是“动作肖像”（Motion Portraits，包括八部人物纪录片），于周六开幕；而后是“应用科学”（Applied Science，包括三部关于工程的纪录片）和“如今如何实现民主”（How Democracy Works Now，包括10部关于移民改革的纪录片，导演是迈克尔·卡梅里尼[Michael Camerini]和莎丽·罗伯森[Shari Robertson]）。
One of the essential titles in this year’s festival is “The Missing Picture.” Directed by Rithy Panh, this haunting, at times shocking movie — part memoir, part indictment — fills the void suggested by its title: it creates an image of madness, specifically the Khmer Rouge’s rule over Cambodia in the 1970s. When he was a boy, Mr. Panh and his family were forced from their home in 1975, the year the Khmer Rouge seized control. Only he survived. With extraordinary grace, he tells his story and that of his ravaged country, using archival visual material, a heartbreakingly intimate narration (spoken by another man in mellifluous English) and small clay figures that, as they are whittled away, become stand-ins for the men, women and children subjected to incomprehensible horror.
今年电影节的一部重要影片是《消失的画面》(The Missing Picture)。这部潘礼德(Rithy Panh)导演的影片让人难以忘怀，有时让人震撼，它既是一部回忆录，也是一种控诉，填补了标题中所说的空白，再现了20世纪70年代红色高棉统治柬埔寨的疯狂情形。1975年，红色高棉掌权之后，当时还是孩子的潘礼德和他的家人被赶出家门，只有他活了下来。他以非凡的美感讲述了他自己以及他被蹂躏的祖国的故事。影片采用档案视觉材料，以一种让人心碎的亲密的讲述手法（另一个男人用流畅的英语讲述），用小泥人当做男人、女人和孩子，表现他们所经受的无法形容的恐怖和被蹂躏的情形。
One strong title screening on Sunday that deserves an adventurous audience and needs a gutsy distributor is “Child of God.” Based on the Cormac McCarthy novel of the same title, it was directed by the apparently tireless James Franco, whom it’s time to start taking seriously, at least as a filmmaker. The movie, stark and often gravely beautiful, features a heroic performance from Scott Haze as an outcast who, with a gun in hand, descends into soul-crippling isolation and then spirals into madness in the Tennessee backwoods. Despite a few missteps, including a scene of on-screen defecation that’s so aggressively up close and personal that it approaches 3-D, Mr. Franco settles into his story with confidence, lyricism and compassion.
周日放映的一部重要影片是《神的孩子》(Child of God)，它值得爱冒险的观众观看，而且还需要一个有胆量的发行商。它根据戈马克·麦卡锡(Cormac McCarthy)的同名小说改编，由显然不知疲倦的詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)导演——作为一个电影制作人他现在不容小觑。这部电影有一种质朴而庄重的美，斯科特·阿泽(Scott Haze)在片中大胆演绎了一个流浪汉，他拿着一把枪，陷入侵蚀灵魂的孤独，而后慢慢在田纳西的丛林中陷入疯狂。尽管片中有一些不当之处，比如其中一幕是对排便的特写——如此近距离，如此私密，有一种3D效果——但是弗兰科总的来说是用信心、浪漫和怜悯来讲述这个故事的。
Also playing on Sunday is “Norte, the End of History,” from the Filipino filmmaker Lav Diaz, which tells the story of two strangers whose lives are tragically intertwined when a rich man commits a double murder, and a poor man is forced to take the fall. With a calm, precise visual style — his fluid, understated camera movements almost hover at the edge of your consciousness — and a four-hour-plus running time, Mr. Diaz doesn’t just tell a story about two men, he also shows you the world in which such stories and men emerge. He takes his time (and yours) to move in and around spaces rather than skipping through them, to accumulate details and play with ordinary daily rhythms. At once lifelike and a scrupulous imitation of life, the movie turns time into a bridge that allows you to cross into the lives of others.
同样在周日放映的还有菲律宾电影制作人拉夫·迪亚兹(Lav Diaz)的《历史的终结》(Norte, the End of History)，故事讲述的是两个陌生人的生活被悲剧性地交织在一起，因为一个富人犯了双重谋杀，而一个穷人被迫替他背黑锅。迪亚兹用冷静、精准的视觉风格——他让摄像机流畅、缓慢移动，让你几乎察觉不到摄像机的存在，在四个多小时的时间里不仅讲述了这两个人的故事，而且向你展示了这样的故事和这样的人生活的世界。他花时间（还有你的时间）进入这个世界并在里面游走，而不是跳过这个世界，他收集其中的细节，用普通的日常节奏演绎。本片通过栩栩如生、一丝不苟的描述，把时间变成一座桥梁，让你通过它进入其他人的生活。
“Norte, the End of History” can be tough going, and three hours probably would have been as effective as four, but it’s one of the highlights of this year’s New York Film Festival, which makes it a must-see. I’m less enamored of some of the more commercial titles that are also on tap, including “Le Week-End,” Roger Michell’s smug, grating trifle about a bitchy British couple (Jim Broadbent and Lindsay Duncan) who prop up their sagging marriage with a trip to Paris and a few nods to Mr. Godard. Yet “Le Week-End,” along with the likes of “Alan Partridge,” a moderately funny comedy with Steve Coogan, signals that the festival is shaking off orthodoxies about what kinds of movies should be, deserve to be, in a cinematic showcase like this one.
《历史的终结》可能是一部沉重的影片，三小时的片长很可能和四小时的一样有效，但它是今年纽约电影节的亮点之一，是必看影片。我对其中一些更商业化的影片不是那么热心，比如罗杰·米歇尔(Roger Michell)自鸣得意、讲述令人厌烦的琐事的影片《周末》(Le Week-End)，是关于一对讨厌的英国夫妇（吉姆·布劳德本特[Jim Broadbent]和林赛·邓肯[Lindsay Duncan]饰）为了挽救不断沉沦的婚姻去巴黎旅行的故事；另外还有几部向戈达尔致敬的影片。与《周末》类似的一部影片是《艾伦·帕特里奇》(Alan Partridge)，它是史蒂夫·库根(Steve Coogan)主演的一部温和、有趣的喜剧片。这两部影片标志着这次电影节甩掉了“哪种电影应该，或者说配得上在这样的电影展示活动上放映”的正统观念。
Last Friday, under a canopy of trees on the Lincoln Center campus, Mr. Jones talked about the past and future of the festival, which he took over from Richard Peña, who retired in 2012 after 25 years. (Mr. Peña’s position as the programmer of the Film Society of Lincoln Center was so demanding that it was divided into two jobs: Mr. Jones programs the festival, and Dennis Lim is responsible for Film Society programming the rest of the year.)
上周五，在林肯中心庭院的树下，琼斯谈起了该电影节的过去和未来。琼斯是从理查德·佩纳(Richard Peña)手中接过该电影节的，后者在掌控该电影节25年后于2012年退休（佩纳作为林肯中心电影协会策划人的职位任务要求很高，所以它被分成了两个工作：琼斯负责策划电影节，丹尼斯·林[Dennis Lim]负责策划电影协会的其他活动）。
“This festival is pretty unique,” Mr. Jones said. “There are a lot of festivals that are about selling movies, documentary festivals, festivals about food.” The New York Film Festival, by contrast, represents “an idea of cinema,” as he put it, one that is perhaps best explained by the selections, their approaches to realism, the world and us.
“这个电影节非常独特，”琼斯说，“电影节有很多种：为了销售电影的电影节、纪录片电影节和关于食物的电影节等。”但是纽约电影节，、用他的话说代表了“电影的一种理念”，最能阐释这一点的也许是这个电影节所选的影片以及它们对现实主义、这个世界以及我们自身的探究。
Trying to get at that idea of cinema as opposed to, say, being overwhelmed by the screens that surround us every waking hour — inundating us in undifferentiated visual noise — suggests why Mr. Jones wanted to fold into this year’s festival a comprehensive Godard retrospective, one that would showcase an entire lifelong engagement with questions of cinema.
想要体现那种电影理念，而不是被包围我们的电影压制住——那些电影用没有差别的视觉噪音淹没我们——正是琼斯想在今年的电影节上加入戈达尔全面回顾展的原因。那个回顾展将展示戈达尔整个一生对电影问题的探究。
“What Godard is saying,” Mr. Jones said, “what he’s always said, is that we have to pay as much attention to the image as we did to the word. We can’t wait for the word to explain the image. We can’t let the word overwhelm the image. I’ve spent half of my life thinking about Godard, sometimes arguing with him really stupidly and then finally being overwhelmed with his films over and over and over again.”
“戈达尔说的是，”琼斯说，“他一直说的是，我们必须像对待语言那样认真地对待图像。我们不能指望用语言解释图像。我们不能让语言超越图像。我花了半生时间思考戈达尔，有时真的是非常愚蠢地跟他争辩，最终一次次被他的电影征服。”
In 1963, tucked among editorials about Gov. George Wallace of Alabama and food production shortfalls in Communist countries, The New York Times ran one titled “The Film as Art,” which I love to return to when thinking about this festival. The occasion was the very first New York Film Festival, which “serves to point up the difference in quality between the film as product and the film as art.” There were no guarantees that the festival’s 19 foreign and 2 American selections would be great, the editorial warned. But their showings “dignify movies in this country; tell the world that we too are interested in cultural efforts. Hopefully, our own serious filmmakers will be encouraged and recognized. All this can broaden the spectrum.”
1963年，《纽约时报》在关于阿拉巴马州乔治·华莱士(George Wallace)州长和共产主义国家粮食短缺的社论中间，夹上了一篇名叫《作为艺术的电影》(The Film as Art)的文章。当我思考本次电影节时，很想再提一提这篇文章。它说的正是第一届纽约电影节，说它“指出了电影作为一种产品和作为一种艺术之间的质量差别”，说那次电影节挑选的19部外国影片和两部美国影片不一定很伟大，但是放映这些电影“给美国电影赢得了尊严，告诉世人我们也对文化作品感兴趣。希望我们自己的严肃电影制作人能得到鼓舞和认可。所有这些都能拓宽电影的视野”。
That may sound awfully corny, but more than a half-century later, it still feels right on point.
我这么说可能显得陈词滥调，但是半个多世纪之后，这篇文章仍让人感觉一语中的。