Mayor Bill de Blasio may have diverged from his predecessor’s path several times in his first year in office, but when it comes to tourists, he has embraced Michael R. Bloomberg’s rallying cry: Keep them coming.
执政第一年中，纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)或许曾数次偏离前任的道路，但在游客问题上，他却积极采纳了迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的口号：让他们来吧。
Mr. de Blasio increased the city’s spending on tourism promotion in 2014 and is considering doing so again this year, said Alicia Glen, a deputy mayor. City officials are expected to announce on Monday that the official count of visitors to the city last year was 56.4 million, up from the previous peak of 54.3 million in 2013.
副市长艾丽西亚·格伦(Alicia Glen)说，2014年，白思豪增加了纽约在旅游宣传方面的支出，而且还在考虑今年也这样做。市政官员预计将于周一宣布，去年纽约市游客人数的官方统计数据为5640万，超过了2013年5430万的峰值。
The influx of tourists has been growing steadily since the recession ended, consistently surpassing the goals set by city officials. The impact of tourism on the city’s economy has been increasing too, but not as fast as projected.
自经济衰退结束以来，游客人数一直在稳步增加，最后超过了市政官员设定的目标。旅游业对纽约经济的影响也在不断加强，但速度不及预期。
NYC & Company, the city’s tourism promotion agency, estimated that tourism spurred $61.3 billion in economic activity last year, far from the pace needed to reach its goal of $70 billion annually in 2015. Much of the discrepancy can be explained by shifts in the global economy, said Fred Dixon, the chief executive of NYC & Company.
据纽约市旅游宣传机构NYC & Company公司预计，去年旅游业共带动了613亿美元（约合3834亿元人民币）的经济活动，离达到2015年700亿美元的年度目标所需的速度还差很远。NYC & Company的首席执行官弗雷德·迪克森(Fred Dixon)说，国际经济情况的变化可以解释这种出入的大部分原因。
A weak American dollar had drawn hordes of shoppers from Brazil and other countries where tariffs make goods more expensive. Brazilians, who make up the third-largest contingent of foreign tourists, had developed a reputation for filling suitcases with purchases of clothing and everyday items.
美元的贬值吸引了来自巴西和其他国家的大批购物者，因为关税原因，商品在那些国家比较昂贵。作为第三大外国游客群体的巴西人，因为用买来的衣服和日用品把行李箱塞得满满当当而出了名。
Now, with the dollar’s rebound diluting some of the buying power of foreign currencies, city officials are banking on drawing more visitors from less-tapped sources, especially China.
如今，随着美元反弹，一些外币的购买力也随之降低。市政官员就指望着，能从此前开发较少的地方吸引更多游客，尤其是中国。
City officials estimate that more than 740,000 visitors came from China in 2014, almost five times as many as in 2009. China passed France last year to move into fourth place as a source of foreign tourists, behind Britain, Canada and Brazil, tourism officials said.
市政官员估算，2014年共有逾74万名游客来自中国，几乎是2009年的五倍。主管旅游业的官员称，去年，中国超过法国，在外国游客来源地中排名第四，仅次于英国、加拿大和巴西。
Already, the Chinese are the largest contingent of foreign visitors to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said Emily Rafferty, president of the museum and chairwoman of NYC & Company’s board of directors. “They’re definitely the No. 1 visitors to us and we predict it’s growing,” she said.
纽约大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)主席兼NYC & Company董事会主席埃米莉·拉弗蒂(Emily Rafferty)说，中国人已经是参观博物馆的外国游客中最大的一支队伍。她说，“他们绝对是我们这里排在首位的访客群体，而且我们预计人数还会增加。”
A recent rule change that will extend visas for citizens of China to 10 years from just one should fuel a continued surge of tourism, Mr. Dixon said.
最近的一个规则改变——把中国公民的签证有效期从1年延长到10年——应该会继续推动旅游的迅速发展，迪克森说。
So far, Mr. Dixon said, the bulk of the Chinese visitors have come in groups that sweep through New York and a few other American cities in rapid succession. But a new group of wealthier Chinese tourists, who spend considerably more on luxuries, is emerging, he said.
迪克森表示，目前大部分中国游客是以团体形式出现，接连不断地涌入纽约和其他几座美国城市。但他说，一个更富裕的新群体正在出现，这些中国游客与那些团体游客相比，会在奢侈品上多花很多钱。
The Chinese tourism target of the future “is going to be the higher-spending, longer-staying, upper-middle-class and luxury market,” Mr. Dixon said. In contrast to Brazilian visitors, he said, the Chinese tend to shop for more expensive items, like watches, to take home as gifts.
关于中国游客的未来目标“将是支出更多、停留时间更长，趋于中上层阶层和奢侈品市场”，迪克森说。他说，与巴西游客相比，中国人更倾向于购买手表等更昂贵的物品，带回家当礼物。
Ms. Glen said that diversifying the sources of tourism as a hedge against economic slumps in particular countries or regions is one aim of the de Blasio administration. “We don’t want to be too reliant on any specific place,” she said.
格伦说，实现游客来源国的多样化，以预防某些国家或地区的经济衰退所带来的冲击，是白思豪政府的目标之一。她说，“我们不想过度依赖任何特定的地方。”
NYC & Company is nearing the end of a five-year contract with the city, which supplies about one-third of its funding. The rest comes from the hotels, museums, restaurants and other businesses that make up its membership.
NYC & Company与纽约市为期五年的合约即将到期，公司三分之一的资金都来自政府。其余部分则来自酒店、博物馆、餐厅，以及作为其成员的其他企业。
Ms. Glen said the city gave NYC & Company an additional $1 million last year, on top of its base allocation of about $12 million. She said city officials were still discussing how much additional money to give the agency in the coming year.
格伦表示，除了大约1200万美元的基础资金以外，纽约市去年又为NYC & Company额外提供了100万美元。她说市政官员仍然在讨论未来一年要额外给该机构提供多少资金。
To enhance New York’s all-American allure, NYC & Company selected Taylor Swift, the music star, as the city’s unofficial — and unpaid — ambassador last fall, a choice that went over as well with some New Yorkers as Mr. de Blasio’s use of a knife and fork to eat pizza.
为了提升纽约作为典型美国城市的吸引力，去年秋季，NYC & Company选择音乐明星泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)作为纽约市的非正式——和无偿的——大使，而这个选择的受欢迎程度大概与白思豪用刀叉吃披萨的举动差不多。