NEW YORK — Michael R. Bloomberg, determined to parlay his government experience and vast fortune into a kind of global mayoralty, is creating a high-powered consulting group to help him reshape cities around the world long after he leaves office.
纽约——决心将他的政府工作经验和巨额财富转化成一个全球市长的职位，迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)正在打造一个实力强大的咨询团队，来帮助他在卸任很长时间之后也能在世界各地改造城市。
To build the new organization, paid for out of his own pocket, the billionaire mayor is taking much of his City Hall team with him: He has already hired many of his best-known and longest-serving deputies, promising them a chance to export the policies they developed in New York to far-flung places like Louisville, Ky., and Mexico City.
布隆伯格将自掏腰包组建这个新机构，为此这位亿万富翁市长将带走他市政厅团队中的许多人：他已经雇了许多他最熟悉、合作时间最长的助手，承诺给他们一个机会，将他们在纽约发展成型的政策推广到遥远的肯塔基州路易斯维尔和墨西哥城等地。
For Mr. Bloomberg, the project is the first concrete phase of a post-mayoral life that aides said would remain intensely focused on cities, long viewed by him as laboratories for large-scale experiments in public health, economic development and environmental sustainability.
对布隆伯格来说，这个项目将是他卸任市长职位后的第一阶段的具体工作。助手们说，他在离职后仍将密切关注城市议题。长久以来，布隆伯格一直将城市看作是在公共卫生、经济发展和环境可持续领域进行大规模探索的实验室。
Above all, the new endeavor reflects a profound confidence — never in short supply with this mayor — that it would behoove dozens of municipalities to replicate the ideas that defined his tenure: turning busy roads into pedestrian plazas, posting calorie counts in fast-food chains, creating a customer-service hotline for citizens.
最重要的，这种新的尝试也反映了一种极度的自信——这是该位市长从不曾缺少的东西——几十个城市理所当然地应该复制他执政期间推出的标志性政策：将繁忙的马路改造成步行广场、在连锁快餐店张贴食物热量表、为市民设立消费者服务热线。
“We have heard this huge demand and need from other cities to learn from New York City,” said Amanda M. Burden, the director of city planning in the Bloomberg administration, who plans to join the consulting group.
“我们了解到，其他城市有这种向纽约市学习的强烈需求，”布隆伯格执政团队中负责城市规划的阿曼达·M·伯登(Amanda M. Burden)表示，她已计划加入布隆伯格的咨询团队。
“Under this mayor,” she added, “New York is the epitome that cities look to of how to get things done.”
“他担任市长期间，”她补充道，“在如何办事方面，纽约是众多城市效仿的典范。”
The organization, to be called Bloomberg Associates, will act as an urban SWAT team, deployed at the invitation of local governments to solve knotty, long-term challenges, like turning a blighted waterfront into a gleaming public space, or building subway-friendly residential neighborhoods.
这一机构将被命名为彭博合伙人公司(Bloomberg Associates)，将作为一支城市化特攻队，在受到地方政府邀请后，前去解决棘手的长期挑战，譬如将一个不景气的滨水区改造成闪闪发亮的公共空间，或是建设便于地铁出行的居住社区。
In a twist on the traditional business model of consulting, clients will not be charged.
但是和咨询业的传统经营模式不同，彭博合伙人公司将不会向客户收费。
Much about the new group is still unknown. But as with most of Mr. Bloomberg’s undertakings over the past decade, it will involve spending eye-popping sums of money with no expectation of earning a profit. (The annual budget will run in the tens of millions.)
这一新团队的许多情况都尚不明了。但是和布隆伯格在过去十年投身的多数事业一样，它涉及的投资将会大得惊人，也不指望赚取任何利益。（年度预算将以千万美元计。）
The group resembles a government in exile. Mr. Bloomberg has recruited at least half a dozen top aides from his administration, including Janette Sadik-Khan, the transportation commissioner; Katherine Oliver, the commissioner of media and entertainment; and Kate D. Levin, the cultural affairs commissioner.
这一团队就好像一个流亡政府。布隆伯格已经从他的政府至少雇佣了六七个高级助手，包括交通局局长珍妮特·萨迪克-汗(Janette Sadik-Khan)、媒体和娱乐局局长凯瑟琳·奥利弗(Katherine Oliver)，以及文化事务局局长凯特·D·莱文(Kate D. Levin)。
Bloomberg Associates will be run by George A. Fertitta, who as chief executive of the city’s tourism agency oversaw a record increase in annual visitors to New York, to 54 million this year. Mr. Fertitta said in an interview that the group would eventually expand to about 20 to 25 employees, most of them drawn from the mayor’s office, who will work closely with Mr. Bloomberg’s sprawling charitable foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies. (Like the foundation, the consultancy will be housed inside a giant townhouse on the Upper East Side, around the corner from the mayor’s home.)
彭博合伙人公司将由纽约市旅游局局长乔治·A·费尔蒂塔(George A. Fertitta)负责运营，在他任内，纽约今年创下了年度游客增长的记录，达到了5400万人。费尔蒂塔在采访中表示，这个团队最终将扩充到20到25名雇员的规模，其中多数将来自市长办公室，他们将与布隆伯格庞大的慈善基金布隆伯格慈善基金会(Bloomberg Philanthropies)紧密合作。（和慈善基金会一样，这家咨询机构也将在上东区一栋巨大的联排别墅内办公，那里距布隆伯格家很近。）
The consulting group is the latest chapter in Mr. Bloomberg’s long journey from political neophyte to much-admired mentor to fellow mayors, dozens of whom have flocked to City Hall to study his open-seat bullpen layout, attended his conferences about urban innovation and applied for grants from his foundation (called “mayors’ school” by several city leaders who have spent time there).
布隆伯格从政坛新手到广受敬仰的市长导师经历了漫长的道路，而这个咨询团队则是其中最新的一章。许多市长纷纷前往纽约市政厅学习布隆伯格开放的牛栏式办公布局，参加他关于城市创新的会议，并去申请他的基金会的资金（几位曾去过那里的市长将其称为“市长学校”）。
Mr. Bloomberg’s influence has already reached from Miami to Los Angeles, Chicago to Newark.
布隆伯格的影响力已经无所不在，不论是从迈阿密到洛杉矶，还是从芝加哥到纽瓦克。
Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu of New Orleans recalled receiving a $4 million grant from Mr. Bloomberg last year to hire a team of eight outside experts that advised the city on how to lower its murder rate. Since then, the city has created a multiagency team to combat gang activity, set up a midnight basketball league to keep young men off the streets and pushed to make it harder for those charged with gun crimes to get out of jail.
新奥尔良市市长米切尔·J·兰德里欧(Mitchell J. Landrieu)回忆起去年从布隆伯格手上接过一笔400万美元（约合2428万元人民币）的资金，用来从外部雇佣八位专家指导新奥尔良如何降低它的谋杀率。自那时起，新奥尔良就创建了一支由多个部门人员构成的小组来打击犯罪团伙活动，成立了一支午夜篮球联盟让青年男子远离街头，还采取措施让那些被控枪械犯罪的人更难走出监狱。
The murder rate in New Orleans has fallen by 17 percent this year.
新奥尔良的谋杀率今年降低了17%。
“To his credit,” Mr. Landrieu said of Mr. Bloomberg, “this guy is putting his personal money into making city government work better.”
“这多亏了他，”兰德里欧这样说起布隆伯格，“这个人把自己的钱用来投资，让市政府能运转得更好。”
Mr. Bloomberg, a careful student of numbers, argues that investments in cities make mathematical sense: More than half the world’s population lives in urban areas, a figure expected to surge to about 70 percent over the next 40 years. The larger the city, the likelier that a big idea will catch fire and be adopted elsewhere, as the mayor showed with his ban on smoking in restaurants and trans-fats in foods.
布隆伯格行事谨慎，喜欢拿数字说话，他认为，投资城市从数学角度具有合理性：世界上一半以上的人口居住在城市区域，在未来40年，这一数字预计将增加到70%左右。 城市越大，一个宏大的想法就更可能会引起人们的兴趣，并被其他地方所采纳，就像布隆伯格在餐馆实施禁烟令和推出反式脂肪禁令后的情况一样。
“Great cities steal ideas from each other,” said Edward Skyler, a former deputy mayor in Mr. Bloomberg’s City Hall and now a top executive at Citigroup.
“伟大的城市会互相偷师，”布隆伯格市政府的前副市长爱德华·斯凯勒(Edward Skyler)说，他如今是花旗集团(Citigroup)的一位高管。
Ms. Sadik-Khan, the transportation commissioner, said that mayors are routinely startled to learn how little money and staffing are required to create the bike lanes, pedestrian plazas and slower-speed zones that have remade New York City’s streets under Mr. Bloomberg.
交通局局长萨迪克-汗说，当市长们得知打造自行车道、步行广场和慢速区域的花费和人员投入有多么少时，他们常常都大吃一惊，而正是这些项目让布隆伯格治下的纽约市街道焕然一新。
“You can make these changes quickly and inexpensively,” she said, adding that “the success we’ve had here can be tailored and replicated in other places.”
“你可以很快地以低廉代价来做出这些改变，”她补充道，“我们在这里的成功可以经过调整在其他地方进行复制。”
Bloomberg Associates expects a measure of skepticism from officials in faraway metropolises who may chafe at a New York-centric approach. “It requires sensitivity,” said Ms. Sadik-Khan, whose agenda has stirred sometimes intense neighborhood backlash.
彭博合伙人公司预计，自己会受到偏远都市官员们的一定质疑，他们可能会对这种以纽约为中心的做法十分反感。“处理时需谨慎，”萨迪克-汗说，她的议程就曾不时在社区层面遭到强烈反对。
Mr. Fertitta said the group’s work could extend into new areas over time, like security and law enforcement. Those people close to Mr. Bloomberg said he would be eager to bring his departing police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, to Bloomberg Associates, a prospect Mr. Fertitta did not rule out.
费尔蒂塔表示，这一团队的业务将逐步拓展到安全、执法等新的领域。接近布隆伯格的一些人表示，他会很希望即将卸任的警察局长雷蒙德·W·凯利(Raymond W. Kelly)加入彭博合伙人公司，费尔蒂塔并没有排除这种可能。
He said the organization would try to work with four to six cities a year. Given the mayor’s reputation and largess, Mr. Fertitta expects no problem finding clients.
他说，这一机构将每年与四到六个城市合作。鉴于布隆伯格的名声和慷慨大方，费尔蒂塔不认为找客户会成为一个问题。
“There will be people,” he predicted, “who will be lined up at the door.”
他预言道，“会有人在门口排起长队。”