For some New Yorkers, there could be no happier activity on a spring afternoon in Manhattan than a leisurely bike ride. Actually owning a bicycle — the initial costs, the flat tires, the bruised shins that come from hoisting a bike up into storage — can detract from the charm. But what if your apartment building eliminated these hassles?
对于有的纽约人而言，最幸福的事莫过于某个春天的下午，在曼哈顿悠闲地骑车了。而实际上，自己拥有一辆自行车，反而会令这件事没那么迷人。因为你要花掉一笔购车费用、要面对车胎没气的麻烦，把自行车扛上楼时，还会一不小心把自己碰伤。可如果你所住的公寓楼就能为你省却这些麻烦，你觉得怎么样？
With corporations, colleges and numerous cities around the country realizing the appeal of bike-sharing programs, it seems only logical that luxury apartment buildings wouldn’t be far behind. Last month, as New York’s own Citi Bike began circulating, the Related Companies added bicycles as the newest amenity in 10 Manhattan rental properties.
鉴于越来越多的企业、高校和全国数座城市都开始意识到自行车共享计划的魅力，可以想见，高档公寓大楼也不会甘落人后。上个月（5月——译注），纽约市推行的“花旗自行车(Citi Bike)”计划启动，而房地产公司Related Companies也在其位于曼哈顿的10栋出租公寓大楼中，增加了自行车作为便利设施。
“It’s like taking a stroll through an English garden,” said Penelope Crabtree, describing the ride she took on the path by the Hudson River one recent weekend. Although Ms. Crabtree, a longtime resident of Related’s Tribeca Tower, has her own bike, a friend was visiting from out of town and wanted to join her on the excursion. With the new amenity, the pair were able to spend several days cycling together during the visit. “I will probably only use it for guests,” Ms. Crabtree said of the service.
“感觉就像在一座英国花园里散步，”佩内洛普·克拉布特里(Penelope Crabtree)谈到自己上个周末在哈得逊河边的小路骑车的感觉时说。克拉布特里长期居住在Related公司经营的翠贝卡大厦(Tribeca Tower)里，虽然她自己有一辆自行车，但一位朋友从外地远道而来，想和她一起骑车郊游。有了这项新的便民设施，在朋友来访的那几天里，她们二人就可以一道骑车了。“我可能只会因为客人才用到它，”克拉布特里谈到该服务时说。
In early 2012, Related and the bike-share business Zagster introduced a pilot program at Related’s Boston rental, One Back Bay. “They were looking to provide bikes for the residents,” where the residents “wouldn’t have to do anything at all,” said Timothy J. Ericson, Zagster’s chief executive and one of its founders.
2012年初，Related公司和从事自行车共享业务的Zagster公司就共同引进了一项试行计划，实施对象是Related公司波士顿的出租公寓One Back Bay大厦。“他们打算为那里的居民提供自行车，”而住户们“根本无需为此做什么，”Zagster公司的首席执行官兼创始者之一蒂莫西·J·埃里克森(Timothy J. Ericson)说。
Zagster provided the bicycles, and residents began to use them. “I definitely got to know the city in a much more intimate way,” said Lindsey O’Neill, 32, who lives in One Back Bay. After a few months of riding, she found that she enjoyed having a bike so much that she bought her own.
Zagster公司提供了自行车，于是居民们开始使用。“我当然想通过更加亲近的方式来了解这座城市，”琳赛·奥尼尔(Lindsey O’Neill)说道，她今年32岁，住在One Back Bay大厦。在骑了几个月自行车之后，她发现自己非常喜欢骑车，于是就自己买了一辆。
“It gives you flexibility,” said Daria Salusbury, a senior vice president of Related.
“骑车为你提供了灵活便利，”Related公司的高级副总裁达丽娅·索尔兹伯里(Daria Salusbury)这样说。
Last month, Zagster and Related rolled out the service in New York, installing two to four bikes in some of Related’s rental properties, several of which are near the Hudson River or Central Park — prime cycling territory.
上个月（5月——译注），Zagster和Related两家公司将这项服务也在纽约推广开来。他们为Related公司拥有的一些出租公寓楼各安排2至4辆自行车。这几栋房产有些靠近哈得逊河，有些靠近中央公园——都是骑车出行的首选地区。
Ernie and Inge Popke reside in one such building, the Westport near Columbus Circle. They have lived there for about four years and have their own bicycles. “We have guests quite frequently that come into town,” Mrs. Popke said, and she and her husband are “thrilled” with the bright blue Zagster bikes in the building garage. “Getting decent bikes from rentals isn’t the easiest,” Mr. Popke added. This, however, was “very easy.”
波普克(Popke)夫妇厄尼(Ernie)和英奇(Inge)就住在这样一栋大楼里，即哥伦布环岛(Columbus Circle)附近的Westport。他们在那已经生活了四年左右，还拥有自己的自行车。“我们经常有客人来访，”波普克夫人说，她和丈夫看到那些放在大楼车库中的亮蓝色的Zagster自行车“喜出望外”。“从租车店里很难找到看起来比较体面的自行车，”波普克先生补充道，而在这里则“轻而易举”。
To use the amenity, residents sign up online, providing a phone number and credit card information. They can either reserve a bike on the Zagster Web site or select one in person. Then they text the number listed on the bike to Zagster, which responds with a code for the lockbox attached to the back of each bike. They enter the code, remove the key, unlock the frame and off they go. Once they’ve taken the bike back to the original location, they simply text the word “end.” The lockbox code changes after every use. “It’s a whole James Bond thing,” Ms. Crabtree said.
要享受这项便民设施，居民们先要上网注册，提供一个电话号码及信用卡信息。他们可以在Zagster网站上预订一辆车，也可以亲自去选一辆，然后把自行车上的编号通过短信发给Zagster，随后将收到Zagster回复的一条密码，来打开自行车后面的保险锁装置。输入密码、转动钥匙、打开搁架，就可以把车骑走。当使用者把自行车骑回原处时，他们只要发送一个“end”就行了。保险锁的密码在每次使用后都会变更。“简直是给詹姆斯·邦德用的。”克拉布特里说。
Residents can use the Zagster bikes at no cost for up to two hours, after which they pay $5 for the remainder of the day. The price structure reinforces the idea that the share is meant for recreational purposes, rather than commuting, which would make the bikes unavailable to others for most of the day. (Citi Bike, therefore, could serve as a supplement, rather than a replacement.)
居民们可以在两小时内免费使用Zagster自行车；超过两小时，就要支付5美元的全天租金。这一收费标准强调了一个理念——自行车共享服务是以休闲而非通勤为目的的。若将其用于通勤，就会令他人在当天的大部分时间里没机会使用那辆车了。（因此，花旗自行车可作为一项补充服务，而非替代措施。）
When asked about New York’s savvy thieves, Mr. Ericson expressed optimism. “Nothing is theft-proof,” he said, “but theft-resistant is the goal there. We use custom nuts and bolts on the bikes, which make them very difficult to steal.”
当问及纽约市内的高智商小偷时，埃里克森表现出乐观精神。“小偷总是防不胜防的，”他说，“但是防盗总归是个摆在我们眼前的目标。我们在自行车上使用了定制的螺钉和螺母，使得它们很难被偷走。”
It’s too soon to gauge the popularity of the amenity here in New York. One Related resident, Justin Gamble, 36, said that when he realized he had to fill out an online profile for Zagster as well as Citi Bike, he decided to hold off to see if the Citi Bike might be sufficient for his purposes. Others weren’t yet aware of the share, or thought it was a great idea in theory but didn’t know if they would actually use it.
要评价这项便民设施在纽约是否受欢迎还为时尚早。Related旗下公寓住户、36岁的贾斯廷·甘布尔(Justin Gamble)说，当他发现自己必须为申请Zagster自行车和花旗自行车各填一张在线资料表时，他就决定暂缓行动，先看看只用花旗自行车是否就能满足他的需要。而其他人呢？他们要么还没注意到这项分享服务，要么觉得理论上听起来不错，但不知道自己是否确实会用得到。
Still, if accessibility is the ultimate goal, then Ms. Salusbury put it well: “How much more convenient can it be than in the garage of your building?”
诚然，如果说便利性才是终极目标，那么索尔兹伯里的话一语中的：“还有哪儿能比你家大楼的车库更便利的呢？”