Seven black students have been offered a chance to start classes at Stuyvesant High School in September, two fewer than received offers last year. For Hispanics, the number has dropped to 21 from 24.
有7位黑人学生得到了于今年9月进入史岱文森高中(Stuyvesant High School)就读的机会，这比去年该高中录取的黑人学生人数少了两位。在拉美裔学生方面，被录取的学生则从24位减少至21位。
According to data released on Tuesday, the racial demographics for incoming students at eight of the city’s nine specialized schools, where black and Hispanic students have long been underrepresented, has remained stagnant, prompting Mayor Bill de Blasio to call again for increasing diversity at the schools.
在纽约的9所特殊高中(specialized school)里，非裔与拉美裔学生人数的比例一直以来都处于过低的状态，根据本周二公布的数据，在其中8所学校的新生中，种族分布不均的情况仍然没有改善，这使得市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)再次向社会呼吁要增强学校的多样性。
The eight schools have a single-test admittance policy that critics have called racially discriminatory.
这8所学校都执行单次考试决定录取结果的政策，批评者们认为这种做法是种族歧视。
“These schools are the jewels in the crown for our public school system,” Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference addressing criminal justice issues.
“这些学校堪称我们公立教育系统王冠上的明珠，”白思豪在一个关于刑事司法问题的新闻发布会上这样说道。
He added: “This is a city blessed with such diversity. Our schools, especially our particularly exceptional schools, need to reflect that diversity.”
他补充道：“这座城市何其有幸，能够如此多样化。我们的学校，特别是我们最顶尖的那些学校，需要反映出这种多样化的大背景。”
Any significant policy changes, however, must pass through Albany, because the test-only rule, which has endured decades of complaints about its effect on minority enrollment, became state law in 1971.
但是，任何重大的政策调整，都必须经过奥尔巴尼（Albany，纽约州州府）的首肯，因为这项在少数族裔录取问题上效果不佳从而饱受争议的考试录取规定在1971年时就被写入了州法。
Three of the most renowned schools, Stuyvesant, the Bronx High School of Science and Brooklyn Tech, have a combined enrollment of more than 10,000 students. Stuyvesant has an enrollment of about 3,300. A total of 952 students were offered seats for its freshman class.
最享有声誉的三所学校分别是史岱文森、布朗士科学高中(Bronx High School of Science)与布鲁克林科技高中(Brooklyn Tech)，它们有一个面向超过1万名学生的联合招生报名机制。报考史岱文森高中的人数达到3300人左右，最终有952位学生得到在该校高一班级就读的机会。
At the news conference, Mr. de Blasio expressed optimism that a deal with Albany could be forged, though he has not put forth any specific legislative proposals. He did, however, raise the notion of ensuring that a wider range of students can prepare for the admittance test.
在新闻发布会上，白思豪表达了对与奥尔巴尼方面就此事达成一致的乐观态度，尽管他目前还并未提交任何有针对性的立法提案。不过他提出，要保证范围更广的学生群体能够准备参与招生考试。
The numbers disclosed by the Education Department showed that of the 28,000 students citywide who took the Specialized High School Admissions Test, 5,701 of them were offered seats. Although 70 percent of the city’s public school students are black and Hispanic, blacks were offered 5 percent of the overall seats and Hispanics 7 percent — the same as a year ago. Asians were offered 53 percent of the seats, compared with 50 percent a year ago; whites were offered 26 percent of seats, compared with 24 percent a year ago.
由教育部(Education Department)公布的数字显示，全市有2.8万名学生参加了特殊高中招生考试(Specialized High School Admissions Test)，其中5701位得到了入学名额。尽管有70%的市内公立学校学生由非裔和拉美裔学生组成，但在特殊高中的新生中，非裔学生却只得到了5%的名额，而拉美裔学生也只分得7%的名额——这和去年别无二致。亚裔学生得到了53%的入学名额，一年之前他们的席位占了50%；白人学生得到了26%的入学名额，去年则是24%。
In Albany, Assemblyman Karim Camara, a Democrat from Brooklyn, is redrafting a bill he introduced in 2011 to change admissions policies at the high schools. As before, the bill seeks to give the city power over admissions, but he said the revised bill would specify what other admissions criteria should be used.
在奥尔巴尼，来自布鲁克林的民主党议员卡里姆·卡马拉(Karim Camara)正在重新修改他于2011年引入的一项改变高中招生政策的法案。如从前一样，这项法案的目的是使得这座城市能够掌控学校的招生进程，但他表示，修订之后的法案会特别指出应该使用哪些其他方面的筛选标准。