There is no red bunting on the front door of Helen Hsu’s home in Rego Park, Queens, no festive garlands or totems that often bedeck Chinese homes like hers during the monthlong Lunar New Year celebration, which began more than two weeks ago. If she were in her native Taiwan there would be fluttering red paper streamers, glinting mirrors and equine caricatures heralding the Year of the Horse. Here in Queens, though, Ms. Hsu has tacked up only military flags and a crest from her son, a United States Marine.
在皇后区雷格公园，海伦·许(Helen Hsu)家的前门没有挂上红色对联，也没有节日花环或图腾标志，像她家这样的中国家庭常常会在春节一个月长的庆祝期间挂上这些东西，但今年的庆祝期已经开始两周多了，她家还是没动静。如果她是在家乡台湾，就会挂上飘动的红色对联，闪闪发光的镜子，以及象征马年到来的马儿漫画。但在皇后区这里，许女士只挂出了一些军旗，以及她在美国海军陆战队服役的儿子的一个徽章。
Ms. Hsu has had her residence broken into three times, most recently three years ago. She lost thousands of dollars and a pearl necklace, she said.
许女士说，她的家已经失窃三次了，最近一次是在三年前。她损失了数千美元以及一条珍珠项链。
Thieves are drawn, police and community leaders say, by perceptions that Asian New Yorkers are likely to carry cash and unlikely to report crimes to the police because of cultural and linguistic barriers.
警察和社区领导者说，亚裔纽约人给人的印象是可能会携带现金，而且由于文化和语言差异，不太可能向警方报案，这给他们招来了窃贼。
“If I put up that red there it tells them, ‘I’m Chinese.’ I don’t want to show my neighborhood, then everyone would know I’m Chinese,” she said. “I don’t want to get trouble.”
“如果我把那些红色装饰品挂出来，就相当于是告诉他们‘我是中国人’。我不想在街区里这么招摇，那样一来所有人都会知道我是中国人，”她说，“我不想招惹麻烦。”
Although theft from Asian-Americans is no more prevalent overall than it is from other groups nationally, according to national crime statistics, in some New York neighborhoods there is a sense of increased risk year round, a risk that is exacerbated during the Lunar New Year.
虽然从美国犯罪统计数据来看，在全国范围内，亚裔美国人遭遇盗窃的情况并不比其他群体严重，但在纽约的一些街区，人们觉得这种风险全年都很高，在春节期间情况还会恶化。
Just as pickpocketing and theft spikes during the Christmas season, when shoppers carry more cash and homes are piled with presents, theft has risen in some of New York’s Asian neighborhoods during the New Year celebration, when, traditionally, red envelopes stuffed with cash are given by elders to younger members of the family.
就像在圣诞购物季期间，消费者会携带更多的现金，家里也堆满了礼物，扒窃和盗窃案件就会大幅跳升，同样的，在春节庆祝期间，长辈通常会给年轻的家庭成员派发现金红包，一些纽约亚裔社区的盗窃案件数量也会攀升。
According to a community news blog, BensonhurtBean, after four Chinese families’ homes were burglarized in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, on Jan. 31, Lunar New Year’s Day, law enforcement officials urged residents to take down the red and gold holiday talismans, which are meant to ward off evil and to usher in luck.
据社区新闻博客BensonhurtBean报道，1月31日大年初一，布鲁克林的本森赫斯特地区有四个中国家庭失盗，执法官员敦促居民们取下红色、金色的节日标志，它们本来是作辟邪开运之用的。
The thefts have frightened residents and prompted law enforcement officials to also increase patrols and call meetings to warn residents of the increased risk of pickpockets and to caution them not to carry cash.
盗窃事件令居民受到惊吓，也促使执法人员增加巡逻时间，并召集居民开会，提醒大家失窃的风险在增加，尽量避免携带现金。
“You put a red scroll in front of your door and get rid of the evil spirit and bring good luck, but very unfortunately that makes people know this is an Asian family, a Chinese family, a very easy target,” said Tim Law, a community activist in Bensonhurst.
“你把红色对联挂在门前，本意是阻止邪魔，带来好运，但非常遗憾的是，它会让别人知道这是一个亚洲家庭，一个中国家庭，盗窃你们的财物会很容易得手，”本森赫斯特的社区活动者蒂姆·劳(Tim Law)说。
About 38 percent of the population of Bensonhurst is Asian, according to data from an American Community Survey ending in 2012, the last year for which numbers are available. Yet since Jan. 1, 19 of the 20 burglaries reported in the area were of Asian households.
亚裔约占本森赫斯特总人口的38%，截止2012年的“美国社区调查”(American Community Survey)数据显示，新的数字还没有出来。但是从1月1日起，该地区发生的20多宗入室盗窃案中，有19起的受害者是亚裔家庭。
Early last year, the police arrested a man suspected of attacking and robbing at least eight people of Asian descent in Harlem over a two-week period. The appearance of singling out one race to attack led to the case initially being investigated by the police department’s hate crimes unit. The man, Jason Commisso, has been indicted on several counts of first-degree robbery and of burglary. 
去年年初，警方拘捕了一名涉嫌在两周内在哈莱姆攻击和抢劫了至少八名亚裔的男子。对于专挑某个种族进行攻击的行为，一开始会由警察部门的仇恨罪行小组开展调查。犯罪嫌疑人杰森·科米索(Jason Commisso)已被指控一级抢劫和入室盗窃等几项罪名。
Law enforcement officials say there are a number of factors that contribute to the patterns of theft in Asian communities. Many new immigrants do not have bank accounts, and so must conduct even large transactions in cash. Some residents participate instead in informal, all-cash money-lending groups among peers, either for cultural reasons or because they mistrust banks because of corruption scandals in their homelands. In Flushing on Dec. 23 over $30,000 was stolen from a Korean woman on the street — the entire collection of one such lending organization. Many small-business owners and restaurateurs keep money at home in lockboxes or even under mattresses.
执法官员说，影响亚裔社区盗窃案规律的因素很多。很多新移民没有银行账户，所以就算是较大的交易也用现金结算。无论是出于文化上的原因，还是因为他们家乡的银行出现过腐败丑闻，导致他们不信任银行，因而有些居民参与了同胞中全部以现金结算的非正式放债活动。去年12月23日，在法拉盛，一个韩国女人在大街上被偷走3万多美元（约合人民币18万元）——这是一个放债组织的全部资金。还有很多小企业业主和餐馆老板把钱放在家中带锁的柜子里，甚至放在床垫下。
Visitors frequently travel with cash, making them targets. In Paris last summer so many Chinese tourists were mugged that the crimes made headlines in China. On Chinese social media, one user offered up a tongue-in-cheek T-shirt design for tourists to wear in France: “Je n’ai qu’une carte de credit” (“I have nothing but a credit card”).
游客则经常带着现金出行，使得他们被窃贼盯上。去年夏天在巴黎，遭到抢劫的中国游客人数非常多，以至于让此事在中国登上了头条。在中国的一个社交媒体上，有用户半开玩笑地贴出了一个T恤设计，供游客在法国时穿着，上面的字样是：“Je n’ai qu’une carte de credit”（我除了信用卡一无所有）。
In Flushing, a comely woman beams from a banner spanning a train trestle above Main Street in Flushing, wishing all a happy new year while holding aloft a red envelope, sometimes called hong bao, in which elders stuff cash for their younger relatives and friends and which bosses use lavish all-cash bonuses. In San Francisco, the police warn celebrants not to display hong bao on the street.
在法拉盛主街上方，一条挂在火车高架桥的横幅上，一个秀丽的女子高举红包，微笑着祝所有人春节快乐。长者会把装着现金的红包发给年轻的亲戚和朋友，老板则用它发放现金奖励。在旧金山，警方提醒庆祝者们不要在街道上露出红包。
Nationally, according to information from the Bureau of Justice Statistics, people of Asian descent made up just 1 percent of the victims of all larcenies; just 3,341 such victims in 2012, the last year that data was available. In New York City, where 12 percent of the population is Asian, Asian people made up about 12 percent of the victims of grand larcenies in the first six months of last year, according to a report compiled by the Police Department.
在全国范围内，司法部统计局的资料显示，亚裔只占全部窃盗受害者的1%，2012年仅为3341名，新的数据还没有出来。在纽约市，亚裔占了总人口的12%，而在去年上半年的重大窃盗案件受害者中，亚裔也占了约12%，警方编制的一份报告显示。
But the view is different in places like Flushing, a center of the city’s Asian communities. The area is a busy shopping district; it also has the second highest crime rate in New York City (after the area that includes Times Square in Manhattan), according to the police. The brunt of reported crimes are burglary and pickpocketing. On a recent afternoon, police officers patrolled an underground food mall off Main Street, ordering diners to take their cellphones phones off the table and put them away.
法拉盛是纽约的一个亚裔社区中心，在像这样的地方，情况有所不同。该地区是一个繁忙的购物区，警方资料显示，这里有纽约市第二高的犯罪率（包括曼哈顿时报广场的一块区域排在第一位）。警方接到的报案主要是入室盗窃和扒窃。不久前的一个下午，警察巡视了主街的一个地下食品广场，让用餐者们不要把手机放在桌上，要放起来。
In a meeting held at Flushing’s 109th Precinct on Feb. 12, Inspector Brian J. Maguire said that in the previous 28 days, crime in general was up 32 percent compared with the same period a year before.
2月12日，在法拉盛第109分局召开的一个会议中，督察布莱恩·J·马圭尔(Brian J. Maguire)说，在过去28天里，总体犯罪率较上年同期增加了32%。
“There are not enough cops to watch this,” he said, referring to burglaries.
“我们没有足够的警察来对付这个，”他提及入室盗窃案时表示。
A few days before Lunar New Year, police from the 109th Precinct demonstrated to a Chinese audience how pickpockets operate. A week later the presentation was repeated in Korean.
春节到来的几天前，109分局警方向中国居民演示了扒手如何偷窃财物。一周后，他们又给韩国人做了同样的演示。
Almost all of the larceny victims so far this year were women, according to police data. Many who shop and live in Flushing say they feel targeted. In Assi Plaza, an Asian market on 39th Avenue in Flushing, Kelly Roth pulled back her puffy winter coat to reveal the purse she wears underneath, ever since thieves took her handbag several years ago. She is Korean, and believes her ethnicity made her muggers believe she was a prime target. They were right — she was carrying $3,000 cash. She now uses cards. “I felt like I got stripped,” she said.
从警方的数据来看，今年到目前为止，几乎所有的盗窃案受害者都是女性。很多在法拉盛购物和生活的人表示，他们觉得有人盯上了自己。在法拉盛第39大道的亚洲市场阿西广场，凯莉·罗斯(Kelly Roth)拉开她臃肿的冬大衣，露出背在里面的挎包，自从小偷几年前偷了她的手袋之后，她就这样背包。她是韩国人，觉得那个偷手袋的小偷之所以盯上自己就是因为自己是韩国人。他们确实看对了人——当时她的手袋里有3000美元现金。现在她使用银行卡。“我当时感觉自己一无所有了，”她说。