Even by New York City standards, Annette Suarez’s Manhattan apartment has a few drawbacks. It is a 408-square-foot one-bedroom and a fifth-floor walk-up. While it is nicely renovated, the miniature stainless steel refrigerator accommodated by its kitchen area is only hip-high.
即便按照纽约市的标准，安妮特·苏亚雷斯(Annette Suarez)在曼哈顿的公寓也存在一些缺陷。这是一个面积408平方英尺（约合44.6平方米）的一居室，位于五楼，但没有电梯。虽然经过精心整修，但配合其紧凑厨房的小型不锈钢冰箱高度只到人的臀部。
No matter. When the apartment was listed two months ago for $595,000, 55 people hoofed it up the stairs for the first and only open house. Seven offers and 10 days later, a contract was signed. Because, despite its flaws, Ms. Suarez’s apartment had something very powerful going for it, said one of her brokers, Christopher Kromer of Halstead Property: at the time, it was the only condominium for sale in the West Village for under $600,000.
这一切都没关系，当这所公寓两个月前以59.5万美元（约合365万元人民币）的价格上市出售时，55人走上楼梯参加首个（也是唯一一个）开放参观日活动。有七人出价购买，10天后就签了一份合同。因为，尽管苏亚雷斯的公寓存在缺陷，但它有一些强大的优势促使人们争相购买。苏亚雷斯的经纪人——Halstead Property房地产经纪公司的克里斯托弗·克罗默(Christopher Kromer)表示，当时这是目前西村(West Village)唯一低于60万美元的产权公寓。
The apartment had no competition.
这套公寓没有竞争对手。
The number of homes for sale in and around New York City has fallen far behind demand, with inventory of apartments in Manhattan reaching the lowest levels in at least 13 years. With so few properties on the market, and so many buyers eager to lock in historically low interest rates before they climb any further, many “for sale” signs planted in a window or on the Web are greeted by a tidal wave of desperate buyers and frantic offers. And almost as quickly as they appear, those listings are gone.
纽约市及其周边待售的住宅数量远不能满足需求，曼哈顿的公寓库存量跌至至少13年来的最低水平。待售房产非常少，而很多购房者渴望抢在历史性低利率攀升前锁定按揭利率，窗户或网上挂出的“待售”标志会吸引一大批急切的购买者，引发疯狂竞购。住宅几乎一上市就被抢购一空。
“In the last several decades of housing, the lack of supply hasn’t been seen on this scale,” said Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal firm. “No supply means frenzy, and it means prices rise.”
“在过去几十年，我们从未见过房市有这么大规模的供应不足的情况，”米勒·塞穆尔估价公司(Miller Samuel)总裁乔纳森·米勒(Jonathan Miller)说。“供应不足会引发疯狂竞购，这意味着价格抬高。”
The average price for a Manhattan apartment this spring was a stratospheric $1.425 million.
今年春季，曼哈顿公寓的均价高达142.5万美元。
Anthony Francavilla and his girlfriend had hoped to buy a two-family home in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, but gave up on that plan after encountering an open house crammed with perhaps 100 people, he said, and another with nearly two dozen offers already on the table. Another would-be buyer, John Clark, a corporate lawyer with a healthy down payment, lost out on at least two apartments because his bids were not all cash.
安东尼·弗兰卡维拉(Anthony Francavilla)表示，他和女朋友曾经想在布鲁克林的贝德福德-斯特维森特(Bedford Stuyvesant)地区购买双户住宅，但他们参加的一次开放参观日活动有大概100来人，而另一个开放日活动已经有20多人出价购买，于是放弃了这个计划。另一名潜在买家约翰·克拉克(John Clark)是一名公司律师，他能支付高额首付款，但他至少错失了两套公寓，因为他仍需要按揭，而不能一次性付清全额。
And Michael Munn, a math professor looking to buy a studio in Brooklyn or downtown Manhattan, recently rushed back to the city in the middle of a Fire Island beach vacation to see a newly listed apartment, because he worried it would be gone by the time he got back just a few days later.
数学教授迈克尔·芒恩(Michael Munn)希望在布鲁克林或曼哈顿下城购买一个单间迷你公寓。近期，他在火岛(Fire Island)海滩度假期间匆匆回到市里，前去参观一套最近上市出售的公寓，因为他担心等他几天后回来时，房子已经出售。
“Everybody was warning me how emotional it can become,” Mr. Munn said of the buying process. “It’s a huge purchase, it’s exciting and nerve-racking. But this is a whole different emotion.
“大家都在警告我，这可能变得多么情绪化，”芒恩提到购买过程时说。“当然，买房是一笔大额交易，令人激动、紧张。但这是一种完全不同的情绪。
“It felt very manic,” Mr. Munn said.
芒恩说，“有种非常狂热的感觉。”
He was outbid.
结果，他的出价没有别人高。
When the economy crashed in 2008, financing for new residential projects all but evaporated, and for the next several years there were few new apartments to buy. But several other factors contributed to this scarcity as well.
当2008年经济崩溃时，建设新住宅项目的资金几乎全部蒸发，接下来几年，只有少量待售的新公寓。但还有其他几个因素导致房源不足。
Tight lending standards and low amounts of equity in some homes meant that many people could not afford to buy a new apartment, even if they sold the one they had. And powerful jitters about the economy in recent years — and last year, concerns about the so-called fiscal cliff — have persuaded many sellers to keep their homes off the market until calmer times.
严格的放贷标准及一些房屋较低的资产净值意味着，很多人即便卖了自己的房子，也买不起新公寓。近些年来，经济形势引发的强烈紧张情绪——以及去年对所谓的财政悬崖的担忧——促使很多售房者保留房屋，等着比较平静的时期再度到来。
At the end of 2012, Manhattan apartment inventory dropped to only 4,749 listings for sale, the lowest level seen since at least 2000, according to Miller Samuel, which prepares reports for Douglas Elliman, the real estate brokerage firm. In the second quarter of this year, that figure was only nominally higher, at 4,795 listings.
据米勒·塞穆尔估价公司透露，2012年末，曼哈顿只有4749套上市出售的公寓，库存量降至至少2000年以来的最低水平。米勒·塞穆尔估价公司为道格拉斯·埃利曼(Douglas Elliman)房地产经纪公司提供报告。在今年的第二季度，待售公寓数量略有提高，达到4795套。
Traditionally, the spring is the busiest real estate season of the year, with a big bump in inventory and an influx of buyers who have waited through the winter for those homes to appear on the market. This year, however, that balancing of supply and demand did not happen, and what new listings there were became overwhelmed by a rush of buyers hoping to escape high rents and to catch low interest rates.
传统上，对于房地产行业来说，春季是一年中最繁忙的季节，库存量猛增，等了一个冬天的购房者也会涌入市场。但今年，供需没有达到平衡，新上市出售的房屋被一大批想要避免高房租，锁定低利率的购房者抢购一空。
It is not just Manhattan that is experiencing a scarcity of inventory. This phenomenon extends throughout much of New York City, especially in Brooklyn, where inventory fell 45.6 percent from the first quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2013, according to Miller Samuel. Across the country, the National Association of Realtors found that the inventory of existing single-family homes for sale fell by 9.2 percent from May 2012 to May 2013.
不只是曼哈顿正在经历房源不足的危机。根据米勒·塞缪尔公司透露，这种现象蔓延至纽约市的大部分地区，尤其是在布鲁克林，2013年第一季度的公寓库存量同比下降45.6%。全美房地产经纪人协会(National Association of Realtors)发现，就全国范围来看，2013年5月份待售的单户住宅数量同比下降9.2%。
In many places, one step toward a solution would be to build new homes. But not in Manhattan.
在很多地方，解决方案的步骤之一是建造新房屋，但曼哈顿地区无法做到。
“We are starting to see new projects that will come to market over the next couple of years, but the fact is that most of it will be very high-end,” said Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group. Because of the high cost of land, she continued, “it’s the only way developers can finance these projects.”
柯克兰房地产经纪公司(Corcoran Group)总裁帕梅拉·利布曼( Pamela Liebman)说，“我们开始看到一些新项目，它们会在未来两年投放市场，但事实是，其中大多数都是高端项目。”她继续说道，由于土地成本较高，“这是开发商能够负担这些项目的唯一方式。”
Mr. Miller estimates that most residential development in Manhattan is now targeted at the top 10 percent of the market, which has started at around $3 million for the last four years.
米勒估计，曼哈顿的大多数住宅开发项目现在瞄准顶层10%的市场，在过去四年里，这部分市场住宅的起价在300万美元左右。
The scarcity creates an extraordinary climate for sellers. They are besieged by accommodating offers and all-cash bids, meaning the buyer does not apply for a mortgage, which takes time and sometimes falls through, especially if the appraised value is lower than the sale price. But sellers must also become buyers or renters themselves, so the very lack of inventory their listing would ease also helps to pin them in their homes.
对于售房者来说， 房源不足形成了一个不寻常的市场环境。他们面对的局面是，购房者出价较高，且表示可一次性付清而不用按揭。申请抵押贷款买房需要时间，而且有时候会落空，尤其是在评估价格低于售价的情况下。但售房者自己也一定会成为购房者或租房者，因此虽然他们出售房屋会缓解房源不足的情况，但正是这种房源不足在一定程度上促使他们“不敢卖房”。
In the face of much frenetic competition, many would-be buyers have decided to go another route; they are giving up. Like Jenna Weiss-Berman, for example, who spent nine months trying to buy an apartment in Brooklyn for a maximum of $475,000.
面对着许多狂热的竞争，很多原本打算买房的人决定选择另一条路线：放弃买房。詹纳·魏瑟-贝尔曼(Jenna Weiss-Berman)就是一例，她花了九个月时间试图在布鲁克林购买一套公寓，她能接受的最高价为47.5万美元。
“It was horrible,” Ms. Weiss-Berman said. “It feels like buying real estate in New York is something rich people can do, and I was naïve to think it was something I could do, too.”
 “真是太可怕了，”魏瑟-贝尔曼说。“感觉是，在纽约买房是富人做的事情，我曾幼稚地以为自己也可以做到这样的事。”
So a few weeks ago, she started looking for a rental apartment instead. She and her girlfriend signed a lease for a place in Bedford-Stuyvesant, and they will move in this weekend.
所以几个星期以前，她开始寻找出租公寓而不再买房。她和她的女朋友在贝德福德-斯特维森特地区选中了一个地方，并签了租赁合同，她们将在这周末入住。
Ms. Weiss-Berman said that she has not felt so calm in months.
魏瑟-贝尔曼表示，几个月来她从没有像现在这样心情平静。