To understand how the current office market for technology companies can resemble a Russian nesting doll, with layer upon layer of increasingly smaller subleases, it might help to consider the upper stories of 568 Broadway in SoHo.
目前，面向科技公司的办公楼市场状态形同俄罗斯套娃，房子层层转租，空间越来越小。苏豪区(SoHo)的百老汇568号就是一个例子。
In the cast-iron former sewing factory, Scholastic, the publisher, is subletting two floors of space to Foursquare, a social media company. In turn, Foursquare is subletting one of those floors to a handful of other tech firms, including Fueled, which designs apps for phones.
这座铸铁建筑原是一座缝纫厂，Scholastic出版社将其中两层的空间转租给了社交媒体公司Foursquare。Foursquare又将其中的一层转租给了其它多家科技公司，包括手机应用设计商Fueled。
And Fueled has divided its column-lined room as a co-working space, where $650 a month gets a renter a seat and unlimited snacks from jars along a wall.
而Fueled，则将列柱式的房间分割成了一个共用工作空间，租户每个月支付650美元（约合人民币3960元）即可获得一个座位，墙边罐子里的零食任吃。
One of those seats belongs to David Spiro, a self-employed entrepreneur, who sat alone at the corner of a long table on a recent afternoon, a bag of popcorn by his laptop. “I’ve raised some funding,” Mr. Spiro said, “but not nearly enough to afford a typical lease in Manhattan, so this place is great.”
其中一个座位的租户，是创业者戴维·斯皮罗(David Spiro)。最近一天下午，他独自坐在一张长桌的一角，笔记本边放着一袋爆米花。“我筹到了一些钱，”斯皮罗说，“但要在曼哈顿租一处普通场地还远远不够，所以这里已经很不错了。”
The sentiment could also apply to the daisy chain of tenants in his building, and more broadly to the surrounding neighborhoods.
这种心态还可以推及到大楼里的其他租户，乃至更广范围内的周边社区。
In the last few months, the area of Manhattan south of Midtown has been awash in deals where early-stage tech companies have opted to take over office space belonging to another tenant, rather than enter into a direct lease with a landlord.
过去几个月来，在曼哈顿中城以南的这片区域充斥着这类交易。处在早期阶段的科技公司倾向于从别的租户手里转租办公空间，而不是直接与大房东打交道。
These sublet deals are often preferred, tenants and brokers say, because the rents are usually slightly cheaper than conventional leases. They can also be for shorter lengths of time than the typical 10 years and require a far smaller security deposit up front.
租户和经纪人表示，转租交易往往更受欢迎，因为租金一般会比常规交易稍便宜一点，租期也可以签得短一点（不像常规合约通常要签10年），而且，需要预付的保证金也会少很多。
As important, they say, is that the spaces usually come built out, which means essentials like high-speed Internet lines, air-conditioning and conference rooms are already in place. Getting up and running quickly is critical for companies or self-starters that often measure growth in months, not years, analysts explain.
他们说，同等重要的是，转租空间的设施一般都比较完善，也就是说，高速网线、空调、会议室等各项重要设施都很齐备。分析师称，对于按月而非年来衡量增长的公司或创业者而言，早日起步并开始运转是至关重要的。
Of course, the office within an office within an office can carry risks. If the first, second or third tenant goes bankrupt, a subletter could find itself without a home. But because their own leases are so brief, these low-rung tenants can also easily wind down operations quickly if, say, their app never catches fire.
当然了，这种办公室套办公室套办公室的转租模式也有风险。如果二房东、三房东乃至四房东破了产，那么转租者可能就会流离失所。不过正因他们的租期很短，假设他们开发的应用始终没能走红，这些低阶租户也可以轻而易举地迅速全身而退。
“They don’t know about the future, so flexibility is key,” said Heidi Learner, the chief economist at Studley, the commercial real estate firm, who is the co-author of a report on the tech sublet trend. “You don’t know about what head count will be, whether you will get any venture capital funding, or whether you will be acquired.”
“他们不知道未来会怎样，所以保持灵活性是关键。你不知道公司会有多少雇员、能否拿到风投资金、会不会被其它公司收购。”商业地产公司斯达德利(Studley)的总经济师海蒂·勒纳尔(Heidi Learner)说。勒纳尔与人合写了一份报告，分析了科技公司的转租趋势。
In general, subletting is becoming more popular. In the Midtown South area, or from Canal Street to 30th Street, sublets accounted for 19 percent of major leasing activity this year, up from 11 percent in 2010, Studley said.
总体而言，转租正变得更加流行。斯达德利的报告称，在中城的南部地区，也就是从运河街(Canal Street)到第30街间，转租的比例已占到了今年主要租房交易的19%，比2010年时的11%有所增长。
And between January and April of this year, 33 percent of all the leases signed in Manhattan by tech companies — a major driver of the current economy — were sublets, the report said. Sublet tenants among other industries within the same period were less than half that.
报告称，今年1月到4月间，科技企业作为当前经济的主要推动力，其在曼哈顿签署的租约中有33%是转租合约。而其它行业在同一时期的转租户数量还不到此比例的一半。
The report also states that the average length of tech subleases is about four years.
报告还指出，科技企业签下的租期平均长度约为4年。
Not just any space will do; tech firms almost exclusively want prewar buildings with lofty ceilings and open floors, said Sean Black, a broker with Jones Lang LaSalle. Since that type of converted industrial space is clustered mainly around the Broadway corridor, supply is limited, he added, and demand is robust.
科技企业可不是什么样的办公空间都会租的，仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)的经纪人西恩·布拉克(Sean Black)说，它们几乎只要那些有着复式挑高的天花板和开放式楼层的战前房源。他还说到，鉴于这种由工业厂房改建而来的办公空间主要分布在百老汇走廊(Broadway Corridor)周围，供应紧俏，需求量就很大。
“They like the ‘old world meets new world’ look,” said Mr. Black, whose many tech clients include Foursquare. A lack of walls and cubicles, with eclectic art on the walls, embodies a certain attitude. “The last thing they want to do is conform with corporate America.”
“他们喜欢那种‘新旧世界强烈碰撞’的外观，”布拉克说。布拉克的许多客户都是科技企业，包括Foursquare。它们租的空间没围墙、没隔间，墙上挂着五花八门的艺术作品，这本身就代表了一种态度。“他们最不希望做的就是与美国商业界保持一致。”
Technology firms have been subletting a bit more space than they personally need, reflecting awareness of heightened demand from a flourishing industry that allows them to rent out extra room to similar companies. Besides, locking in the space at today’s asking rents, which for sublets is about $45 a square foot in Midtown South, according to Studley, is considered wise, because rents are expected to climb, companies say.
科技企业租下的房源，一般会比公司实际所需的空间稍大，这表明他们知道，科技业这个蒸蒸日上的行业对于办公空间的需求正在与日俱增，因此他们可以把场地租得大一些，把多余的空间转租给同类公司。况且，斯达德利公司称，中城南部的转租租金约为每平方英尺45美元（约合每平方米3040元），趁现在的要价还不算高先拿下一处，不失为明智的选择。因为各家公司都在说，预计租金将会上涨。
“It’s a great way to hedge the lease,” said Derek Stewart, who handled leasing for Foursquare before leaving the company this summer.
“这是一个将租约套期保值的妙招。”德里克·斯图尔特(Derek Stewart)说。斯图尔特曾为Foursquare打理过租房事宜，今年夏天离职。
Foursquare, which has 120 employees in New York, paid about $45 a square foot in 2011 in a seven-year deal, Mr. Stewart said. But he estimated that with companies like ZocDoc, a physician app service, and Thrillist, a lifestyle site for men, under the same roof, the building had gained a bit of buzz as a popular tech address. That means the space could command $55 a foot today, he said.
斯图尔特说，现在Foursquare在纽约有120名雇员，2011年时，它以每平方英尺45美元的价格签下7年租约。但他估计，有ZocDoc（网上预约医生的应用服务）、Thrillist（男士生活网站）这类公司同在一个屋檐下，这个场地作为热门科技企业的聚集地已经开始小有名气了。他说，这就意味着，现在这里的租金可以涨到每平方英尺55美元（约合每平方米3720元）了。
But so far there has been little urge to profit off the subtenants, he added, saying that Fueled and the other subtenants also pay about $45 a foot for their space. “We felt kind of badly making money off it,” Mr. Stewart said. “We didn’t want to have a bad name in this tight community.”
不过到目前为止，公司还不急着从转租者身上获利，他接着说，Fueled和其它转租者支付的租金还是大约每平方英尺45美元。“我们觉得在这上面赚别人的钱不太好，”斯图尔特说，“我们不想在这个联系紧密的社区里把名声搞砸。”
Mr. Stewart, who now works for David Tisch, a tech investor, also pointed out that subleases were essential for the survival of the tech community.
斯图尔特目前在科技企业投资人戴维·蒂希(David Tisch)的手下工作，他还指出，转租对于科技企业圈的生存举足轻重。
In San Francisco, where Mr. Stewart leased two spaces on behalf of tech companies, start-ups can afford direct leases, which often require just three months of rent for a security deposit. But in New York, 12 months of rent is common. “Landlords here are just so risk-averse,” he said.
斯图尔特曾代表科技公司在旧金山租了两个办公场地。他说在旧金山，创业者负担得起直租的租金，他们往往只需要预付3个月的房租作为保证金；但是在纽约，用12个月的房租作保也很常见。“这里的房东就是这么不愿意承担风险，”他说。
In a business where a company’s start-up phase can be hypercompressed — Instagram was founded in 2010 and bought by Facebook for $1 billion two year later — short sublets are not unusual.
在科技业，一家公司可能在极短的时间内就能走完起步阶段——比如Instagram成立于2010年，两年后就被Facebook以10亿美元（约合人民币61亿元）的价格收购了——因此，短期转租合约并不少见。
The news site BuzzFeed, for example, has signed a two-year sublease for space in the new headquarters of Tiffany & Company at 200 Fifth Avenue, across from Madison Square Park. BuzzFeed, which had been based on West 21st Street in a 20,000-square-foot space, will take an entire 58,000-square-foot floor, which is one of seven floors Tiffany has there.
比如说，新闻网站BuzzFeed签了两年的转租合约，在第五大道200号、麦迪逊广场公园(Madison Square Park)对面的蒂芙尼(Tiffany & Company)新总部大楼内租下办公空间。此前，BuzzFeed一直入驻在西21街一处20000平方英尺（约合1858平方米）的办公空间；而如今，它将在共有七层的蒂芙尼总部大楼内，占领一整层楼的空间，面积达到58000平方英尺（约合5388平方米）。
The rent was not disclosed, but Greg B. Taubin, the Studley broker who represented Tiffany, said that comparable sublet space in the area went for $65 a square foot.
这份合约的租金数额尚未被披露，不过代表蒂芙尼参与谈判的斯达德利公司经纪人格雷格·B·陶宾(Greg B. Taubin)说，周边同类转租办公场所的租金是每平方英尺65美元（约合每平方米4400元）。
“Companies like this don’t sign long-term leases because they don’t have a crystal ball,” Mr. Taubin said. But for Tiffany, which doesn’t need the space immediately, there’s an upside in cost reduction, too, he added.
“像这样的公司都不会签长期租约，因为它们也无法预测未来会发生什么，”陶宾说。但蒂芙尼并不着急使用这些场地，对它而言，这样做还有利于降低成本，他补充道。
Other advantages include having lights on and more people in the elevators, said Bonnie Shapiro, the director of leasing for Allied Partners, an owner of 568 Broadway. “You don’t want tenants touring the building and seeing dark, unused spaces,” she said. For tenants that may be consolidating or downsizing, the new demand for sublet space may come at a fortunate time. Credit Suisse, the investment bank, which has undergone several rounds of layoffs in recent months, has managed to sublet all its former office space at 315 Park Avenue South, one of three locations it has in Manhattan.
还有其它好处，比如可以让灯光一直保持亮着，电梯里的人也会更多，地产公司Allied Partners的租赁部总监邦尼·夏皮罗(Bonnie Shapiro)如是说。Allied Partners公司拥有百老汇568号的房产。“你总不希望租户在楼里参观时，看到无人使用的黑暗角落吧，”她说。对于一些可能发生兼并或裁员的租户来说，对转租办公场所的新需求或许会适时出现。投资银行瑞士信贷(Credit Suisse)在曼哈顿有三座办公大楼，其中之一位于公园大道南(Park Avenue South)315号。瑞士信贷设法将楼内所有原属于该公司的办公场所都转租了出去，因为近几个月来，他们经历了好几轮裁员。
Tech subletters in the 20-story Beaux-Arts tower, which is at East 23rd Street, include VaynerMedia, X+1 and Responsys, as well as Adap. TV, which this month took the entire seventh floor measuring 16,000 square feet. The new space features a red wall decorated with words like energy, creativity and passion, and executive offices around the perimeter have been turned into shared conference rooms. The space is a far cry from its cramped, plain-jane 4,000-square-foot space at 915 Broadway, said Gerry Manolatos, the communications director for Adap. TV.
20层的Beaux-Arts大楼位于东23街，这里的科技企业转租户包括VaynerMedia、X+1、Responsys以及Adap. TV。Adap. TV这个月将整个第7层楼租了下来，面积有16000平方英尺（约合1486平方米）。新的办公场所里有一面红色主题墙，其上装饰着“能量”、“创造力”、“激情”这类字眼。场地周边的一圈总裁办公室，也都被改建成了共享型的会议室。Adap. TV的沟通总监格里·马诺拉托斯(Gerry Manolatos)说，新的办公场所与原来相比有天壤之别，原来那个位于百老汇915号、占地4000平方英尺（约合372平方米）的，不仅狭窄拥挤，而且毫无特色。
Mr. Manolatos would not disclose the terms of his lease, only that it is for less than a decade. But in the merry-go-round of the tech sublet market, Adap. TV is cashing in itself; its former space on Broadway is also being sublet to a tech firm, he said.
马诺拉托斯不肯透露租约的具体条款，只是说租期不满10年。不过在科技公司转租市场的频繁交易当中，Adap. TV正为自己获取现金流；它把原来在百老汇的办公场所转租给了另一家科技企业。
“It’s like one deal leads to the next,” Mr. Manolatos said. “Everybody’s thinking, ‘Who knows where we will end up next?’ ”
“这就好比，一笔交易是在为下一笔做铺垫，”玛诺拉托斯说，“每个人都在盘算，‘谁知道我们下次会在哪儿租房？’”