NEW YORK — A doctor in New York City who recently returned from treating Ebola patients in Guinea tested positive for the Ebola virus Thursday, becoming the city’s first diagnosed case.
纽约——一位曾在几内亚医治埃博拉病人、近日才回国的纽约医生，周四化验得出埃博拉病毒呈阳性，成为纽约市第一个临床诊断病例。
The doctor, Craig Spencer, was rushed to Bellevue Hospital Center on Thursday and placed in isolation while health care workers spread out across the city to trace anyone he might have come into contact with in recent days. A further test will be conducted by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to confirm the initial test.
这位名叫克雷格·斯潘瑟(Craig Spencer)的医生周四被紧急送往贝尔维尤医院中心(Bellevue Hospital Center)隔离，与此同时，医护人员在全城展开搜寻，追踪近日和他有接触的人。美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)将做进一步的检验以确认这个初步化验结果。
While officials have said they expected isolated cases of the disease to arrive in New York eventually, and had been preparing for this moment for months, the first case highlighted the challenges surrounding containment of the virus, especially in a crowded metropolis.
官员此前曾预料最终会有个别病例出现在纽约，并已经为此事进行了数月的准备，但首个病例的出现仍然突显了病毒防控上的困难，尤其是在一个人口密集的大城市。
Even as the authorities worked to confirm that Mr. Spencer was infected with Ebola, it emerged that he traveled from Manhattan to Brooklyn on the subway on Wednesday night, when he went to a bowling alley, and then took a taxi home.
甚至就在当局确认斯潘瑟感染埃博拉的时候，已知的情况是他在周三晚上曾乘地铁从曼哈顿前往布鲁克林，他去了那里的一家保龄球馆，而后坐出租车回家。
The next morning, he reported having a temperature of 103 degrees, raising questions about his health while he was out in public.
第二天上午，他报称自己的体温达到103华氏度（39摄氏度），这让人怀疑他出门在外时身体状况是否正常。
People infected with Ebola cannot spread the disease until they begin to display symptoms, and it cannot be spread through the air. As people become sicker, the viral load in the body builds, and they become more and more contagious.
感染埃博拉病毒的人在出现症状前不具传染性，也不会通过空气传播病毒。随着病情恶化，病人体液内会充满病毒，传染性也就越来越强。
Dr. Spencer’s travel history and the timing of the onset of his symptoms led health officials to dispatch disease detectives, who “immediately began to actively trace all of the patient’s contacts to identify anyone who may be at potential risk,” according to a statement released by the department.
考虑到斯潘瑟的行程记录和症状出现的时间，卫生官员已经派出疾病侦查人员。据市卫生署的一份声明称，侦查人员“旋即开始积极追踪病人的所有联系人，以发现潜在威胁”。
It was unclear if the city was trying to find people who might have come into contact with Dr. Spencer on the subway. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority directed all questions to the health department, which did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the issue.
目前尚不清楚政府是否会寻找在地铁上和斯潘瑟有接触的人。大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)将所有问题转给了卫生署，后者没有立即对置评请求做出回应。
At Dr. Spencer’s apartment in Harlem, his home was sealed off and workers distributed informational fliers about the disease. It was not clear if anyone was being quarantined.
斯潘瑟位于哈林区的公寓已经被封锁，工作人员分发了有关该疾病的传单。目前尚不清楚是否有人被隔离。
Health authorities declined to say how many people in total might have come into contact with Dr. Spencer while he was symptomatic.
卫生部门拒绝透露斯潘瑟出现症状以后一共接触过多少人。
Mayor Bill de Blasio, speaking at a news conference Thursday evening before the diagnosis, said Dr. Spencer has given health workers a detailed accounting of his activities over the last few days.
周四晚间在做出诊断前，市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在一次新闻发布会上说，斯潘瑟已经向医护人员详细回忆了过去几天的活动。
“Our understanding is that very few people were in direct contact with him,” Mr. de Blasio said.
“据我们了解，和他有过直接接触的人非常少，”白思豪说。
Dr. Spencer had been working with Doctors Without Borders in Guinea, treating Ebola patients, before returning to New York City on Oct. 14, according to a city official.
据一位市政府官员称，斯潘瑟一直在几内亚与无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)合作治疗埃博拉病人，直到10月14日回到纽约。
He told the authorities that he did not believe the protective gear he wore while working with Ebola patients had been breached but had been monitoring his own health.
他对当局说，他不认为他在治疗埃博拉病人期间穿戴的防护装备出现了问题，但是一直在监测自己的健康状况。
Doctors Without Borders, in a statement, said it provides guidelines for its staff members on their return from Ebola assignments, but did not elaborate on those protocols.
无国界医生组织在一份声明中说，该组织会向结束埃博拉任务后返回的成员提供指导意见，但没有具体说明规程的细节。
“The individual engaged in regular health monitoring and reported this development immediately,” the group said in a statement.
“该成员进行了定期的健康监测，并在发现状况后立即上报，”该组织在声明中说。
Bellevue doctors have prepared for an Ebola patient with numerous drills and tests using “test patients” as well as actual treatment of suspected cases that turned out to be false alarms.
贝尔维尤的医生针对收治埃博拉病人已经进行过多次演练，对“模拟病患”进行化验，同时还对疑似病例进行了实际的治疗，但后来证明这些病例都是虚惊一场。
A health care worker at the hospital said that Dr. Spencer seemed very sick, and it was unclear to the medical staff why he had not gone to the hospital earlier, since his fever was high.
一位医院的医护人员说，斯潘瑟看上去病情很严重，医护人员不清楚他为什么没有更早入院，因为他烧得很厉害。
Dr. Spencer is a fellow of international emergency medicine at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, and an instructor in clinical medicine at Columbia University.
斯潘瑟是纽约长老会医院(New York -Presbyterian Hospital)/哥伦比亚大学医疗中心(Columbia University Medical Center)的国际急救医疗研究员，并在哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)任临床医学讲师。
“He is a committed and responsible physician who always puts his patients first,” the hospital said in a statement. “He has not been to work at our hospital and has not seen any patients at our hospital since his return from overseas.”
“他是一位专注而负责的医师，一贯把病人摆在第一位，”医院在一份声明中说。“从国外归来后，他未曾回到我院工作，也没有在我院为任何病人看过病。”
Even before the diagnosis, the Centers for Disease Control dispatched a team of experts to assist in the case, before the test results were even known.
在诊断作出前，疾控中心就已经派出一个专家组为该病例提供协助，当时还不知道化验结果。
The authorities have been on high alert ever since Thomas Eric Duncan traveled to the United States in September from Liberia, and was later given a diagnosis of Ebola.
自九月托马斯·埃里克· 邓肯(Thomas Eric Duncan)从利比里亚来到美国，随后被诊断感染埃博拉以来，当局一直保持高度警惕。
Mr. Duncan died at a Dallas hospital this month.
邓肯本月在达拉斯一家医院病逝。
Several days after his death, a nurse who helped care for Mr. Duncan learned she had Ebola. Two nurses who treated Mr. Duncan fell ill but have since recovered.
在他去世几天后，一位曾参与看护邓肯的护士得知她感染了埃博拉。两名参与邓肯治疗的护士也染病，后得以康复。
That single case led to hundreds of people being quarantined or being asked to remain isolated from the general public..
那一个病例导致数百人被隔离，或被要求不要进入公共场所。
The missteps by both local and federal authorities in handling the nation’s first Ebola case raised questions about the ability of health care workers to safely treat those with the disease.
地方和联邦当局在全国第一宗埃博拉病例的处理上出现的问题，让人们怀疑医护人员是否有能力在应对该疾病时确保自身安全。