Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Sunday night outlined New York State’s mandatory quarantine policy for health care workers returning from West African nations with Ebola outbreaks , bringing the state closer into line with federal protocols and marking a significant break with the way the policy has been carried out in New Jersey.
针对从西非埃博拉疫区归来的医护人员，纽约州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)周日晚上简要陈述了纽约州的强制性隔离政策，这意味着该州进一步向联邦规则靠拢，并与新泽西州所实施的政策进行了重要切割。
The announcement comes after the Obama administration pressed New York to revise its order, issued only two days ago in a joint press conference with New Jersey’s governor, Chris Christie. New Jersey officials, who stood by their decision on Sunday, have yet to explain many details of their quarantine policy. The state has come under scathing criticism for the treatment of a nurse returning from Sierra Leone, who was forced into quarantine in a hastily erected tent at a New Jersey hospital even though she had not displayed any signs of illness and tested negative for Ebola.
宣布这项决定前，奥巴马政府曾向纽约州施压，促其对两天前在一场和新泽西州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)的联合新闻发布会上下发的命令做出修改。新泽西截止周日仍然坚持他们的决定，州府官员尚需对隔离政策的许多细节做出解释。该州对一位从塞拉利昂归来的护士采取的措施，引发了激烈的批评，尽管没有表现出任何得病的症状，并且埃博拉测试呈阴性，这位护士还是被迫在新泽西一家医院内仓促搭起的帐篷里进行隔离。
Earlier in the day, Mayor Bill de Blasio said that the treatment of the nurse, Kaci Hickox,had been shameful and vowed that New York City would do all it could to honor the work of the health care workers here and those who go to help fight the epidemic in West Africa.
纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在当天早些时候表示，这位名叫凯茜·希考克斯(Kaci Hickox)的护士受到的待遇让人羞愧，并坚称纽约市会尽一切所能，赋予此地以及前往西非与流行病战斗的医务工作者应有的尊重。
“The problem here is, this hero, coming back from the front having done the right things, was treated with disrespect,” Mr. de Blasio said.
“现在的问题是，这位前线归来的英雄做了正确的事，却受到无礼的对待，”白思豪说。
“We have to think how we treat the people who are doing this noble work,” he said. “We owe her better than that.”
“我们要好好想想，应该如何对待这些从事伟大工作的人，”他说。“不应该是现在这样。”
Under the revised guidelines, New York State would allow all returning health care workers who have had contact with Ebola patients but have no symptoms of illness to return to their homes, where they would be confined; their health would be monitored for 21 days.
依据经过修改后的指导原则，曾接触过埃博拉病患、但没有疾病症状的医务人员在回到纽约州后，可以回自己的家中隔离，并将对他们的健康状况进行为期21天的观察。
They would be transported by private vehicle, arranged by the New York State Department of Health or the local health department. While under confinement, there would be at least two unannounced visits by local officials, in coordination with state health officials, each day to check the individual’s condition as well as ensure that the individual is complying with the state order.
纽约州卫生署或地方卫生部门将安排私人车辆负责他们的交通。在隔离期间，配合州卫生官员工作的当地官员，会在不事先通知的情况下每天上门访问至少两次，检查此人的状况，并确保此人遵守了州府的规定。
The New York State or local health department will, if needed, coordinate care services such as food and medicine.
如有需要，纽约州或地方卫生部门将在食物和医疗等护理服务上予以协助。
If a person arrives from one of the affected areas with no symptoms and had no direct contact with anyone infected with the Ebola virus, there will be no home confinement. Health officials will monitor these individuals twice a day for temperature and other symptoms until the 21-day incubation period is over.
如果一个人从疫区归来，没有症状，也没有和任何感染埃博拉病毒的人有过直接接触，就不需要进行家庭隔离。卫生官员将对这些人进行监控，每天测量两次体温，并观察其他症状，直到21天潜伏期结束。
Governor Cuomo, who asked for patience from those who will be affected, also said the state would provide financial assistance where needed.
库默请求那些受到规定影响的人保持耐心，还表示如有必要，州府会提供资金援助。
“If their organization does not pay for the three weeks, we will,” he said.
“如果他们所在的机构不支付这三周的薪资，我们来付，”他说。
The move comes as President Obama met with his top advisers at the White House to craft a policy that reassures Americans that they are protected from the virus while following the guidance of the government’s scientific advisers. Officials said that policy will be ready in days and that the government would urge all states to follow it.
此项举措出台前，奥巴马总统刚刚与其白宫高级助手们会面，制定出了一套政策，以确保美国人不会受到病毒的波及，同时也遵循了政府科学顾问给出的原则。官员称这套政策将在几天内就位，政府届时会敦促各州跟进。
The rapidly escalating events played out both privately, in intense negotiations and phone calls between federal and state officials, as well as publicly in Ms. Hickox’s pointed criticism of the New Jersey governor.
这种事态的迅速变化在私下和公开场合都有表现，一方面联邦和各州官员之间进行着紧张的谈判和电话通话，另一方面希考克斯则对新泽西州长发出了公开的批评。
Ms. Hickox who has called her treatment “inhumane,” planned to mount a legal challenge to the quarantine order.
希考克斯称她受到的待遇是“不人道”的，打算对隔离令发起法律挑战。
Ever since Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, and Mr. Christie, a Republican, announced the plan at a hastily called news conference on Friday evening, top Obama administration officials have been speaking with Mr. Cuomo daily and have also been in touch with Mr. Christie, trying to get them to modify the order. But Mr. Christie said at a fund-raiser in Florida that he had “gotten absolutely no contact” from the White House.
民主党的库默和共和党的克里斯蒂周五晚间仓促举行新闻发布会宣布计划后，奥巴马政府高层官员每天都在和库默商谈，也和克里斯蒂取得了联系，试图说服他们对命令做出修改。但克里斯蒂在佛罗里达参加一场筹款会时说，白宫“完全没有”联系过他。
But in that time, two more states — Illinois and Florida — announced that they were instituting similar policies, as some members of the public expressed outrage that the infected patient in New York City had used the subway and gone bowling just before developing symptoms.
然而在此期间，还有两个州——伊利诺伊和佛罗里达——宣布要实施类似的政策，因为纽约市那名被感染的病人在出现症状前曾搭乘地铁和玩保龄球，令一部分公众大为惊骇。
Federal officials made it clear that they do not agree with the governors about the need or effectiveness of a total quarantine for health care workers, though they were careful not to directly criticize the governors themselves.
联邦官员已经明确表示，这些州长对医务人员进行完全隔离的做法是没有必要的，效果也很差，不过他们出言也十分谨慎，不愿意对州长本人发起直接的批评。
A senior administration official, who did not want to be identified in order to discuss private conversations with state officials on the issue, called the decision by the governors “uncoordinated, very hurried, an immediate reaction to the New York City case that doesn’t comport with science.”
一位奥巴马政府高级官员称州长们的决策“是对纽约市的案例做出的一种缺乏协调的、仓促的即时反应，有违科学规律。”由于涉及与州府官员在这一问题上的讨论，这位官员要求在文中匿名。
Indeed, Mr. Christie said he did not consult with the White House about the decision. “I did not let them know,” he said in a brief interview in Boca Raton, Fla., where he was campaigning for the state’s Republican governor, Rick Scott.
克里斯蒂的确曾说在这项决策上没有与白宫商议。“我没跟他们说，”他在佛罗里达博卡拉顿接受简短采访时说，当时他在那里为该州共和党州长里克·斯科特(Rick Scott)助选。
The United States is sending thousands of military personnel and other federal workers to the West African countries hit hardest by the virus, and a mandatory quarantine could make sending personnel to those countries more difficult, officials said.
美国向西非病毒疫情最重的几个国家派出了数千名军人和其他联邦员工，官员称强制性隔离措施会导致向这些国家派员的工作更加困难。