A man was charged late Tuesday in the fatal shoving of a subway rider in the Bronx after he was taken into custody earlier in the day in a separate assault at a Manhattan subway station this month, the police said.
纽约警方表示，一名男子因涉嫌本周在布朗克斯区推搡地铁乘客、致其死亡，在周二晚间遭到起诉，该男子因本月在曼哈顿的地铁站出现在另一起袭击案中，于周二早些时候被捕。
The man, Kevin Darden, was arrested on a murder charge in the death of the rider, Wai Kuen Kwok, 61, who was shoved into the path of an oncoming subway train on Sunday, the police said. Mr. Darden, who was located in the Bronx near his last known address, was believed to appear in surveillance video leaving the scene of the killing.
警方此前称，凯文·达顿(Kevin Darden)因涉嫌谋杀61岁的郭伟权（Wai Kuen Kwok，音译）被捕，郭伟权在周日被人推到地铁正在迎面驶来的轨道上。达顿在布朗克斯区被探员发现，此地距其最后现身处不远。警方相信，监控录像拍到了他离开凶杀案现场的画面。
Mr. Darden, 34, has a history of robbery and assault.
达顿现年34岁，有抢劫和袭击的前科。
With the manhunt stretching into a third day, the victim of an earlier shoving episode, a 51-year-old man pushed to the platform of the West Fourth Street subway station on Nov. 6, told the police that he had been attacked by the same man who appeared in the video from Sunday.
在搜寻行动的第三天，早前一起推搡事件的受害者、一名51岁的男子告诉警方，11月6日，他在西四街地铁站的月台被推倒在地，行凶者和周日视频中的男子是同一个人。
“You shouldn’t walk in front of me,” the assailant told the man, according to the police, before shoving him to the ground. “I’m warning you.”
“你不该走在到我前面，”行凶者对这名男子说，然后把他推倒在地。“这是给你的警告。”据警方转述。
The police said investigators believed Mr. Darden was the same person seen on surveillance video walking calmly from the 167th Street station minutes after Mr. Kwok was killed just before 8:45 a.m. Mr. Kwok had been standing on the platform with his wife.
郭伟权在接近08点45分时被害，此前他一直和妻子站在月台上。警方说，监控录像拍到，有人在数分钟后步履从容地走出该地铁站，调查人员认为那人就是达顿。
Other riders on the platform did not see the attack, but they told the police that the man they saw leaving the station was the same man in the video, who was seen boarding a bus two minutes later.
月台上的其他乘客没有看到袭击过程，但他们告诉警方，他们看到离开地铁站的男子和录像中是同一个人，两分钟后，此人登上了一辆公交车。
Until the man assaulted in the West Fourth Street attack, who is also Asian, identified Mr. Darden on Tuesday as his attacker, no probable cause existed to arrest him. 
在西四街的袭击事件中，受害者也是一名亚裔，本周二他辨认出达顿就是袭击自己的人，警方这才有了逮捕他的理由。
But shortly after tying him to the earlier crime, Mr. Darden was taken into custody on the street near his mother’s home on Grand Avenue in the Bronx. He was unarmed and went with detectives without a struggle, the police said.
在达顿被指认与早前的袭击有关之后不久，警方就在布朗克斯格兰大道(Grand Avenue)他母亲居所附近的街上逮捕了他。当时达顿手无寸铁，被探员带走时未作任何挣扎，警方说。
In a Twitter post, the chief of detectives, Robert K. Boyce, praised the work of detectives “on the arrest of Kevin Darden, individual wanted in connection with the homicide in transit.”
探长罗伯特·K·博伊斯(Robert K. Boyce)在Twitter上称赞了探员们的表现，因为他们成功“逮捕了和地铁站凶杀案有关系的被通缉人凯文·达顿”。
A woman who identified herself as Mr. Darden’s mother said in an interview on Tuesday before his arrest that Mr. Darden had not lived there in months, adding that she had spoken to detectives and was cooperating with the investigation. “I don’t know where he is,” she said before the arrest. “He is homeless.”
一个自称是达顿母亲的妇女，本周二在他被捕之前接受了采访，她表示，达顿已经有几个月没住在这里了，而且她自己曾和探员交谈过，对调查工作予以了配合。“我不知道他在哪里，”她在达顿被捕之前说。“他居无定所。”
The building’s landlord, Shiouli Rahman, who lives at the adjoining address, said Mr. Darden was one of the woman’s two sons. Mr. Darden’s brother lives in East Texas. In 2011, Mr. Darden was arrested there and charged with pouring gasoline over his brother’s home in an apparent attempt to light it on fire. The case ultimately did not go forward, according to court records.
这栋建筑物的业主休利·拉赫曼(Shiouli Rahman)就住在附近，他说这名妇女有两个儿子，达顿是其中之一。达顿的兄弟住在东德克萨斯。2011年时，达顿曾在那里被捕，他被指控把汽油浇在兄弟的家里，有明显的纵火企图。法庭记录显示，该案不了了之。
The killing on Sunday rattled riders across the subway system and immediately raised questions about a motive for the apparently random attack. Mr. Kwok’s wife, Yow Ho Lee, 59, told investigators that the man who attacked her husband said nothing before shoving Mr. Kwok and fleeing.
周日发生的凶杀案令纽约地铁系统的乘客感到震惊，人们不禁要问：这件貌似随机的袭击案背后存在何种动机。59岁的李尤秀(Yow Ho Lee，音译)是郭伟权的妻子，她告诉调查人员，袭击自己丈夫的人什么都没有说，推了人就逃走了。
For several minutes afterward, the man who would soon be the subject of a manhunt by the police appeared to behave as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened — boarding a bus, getting off nearby, smoking a cigarette.
凶案发生几分钟后，这名很快就会成为警方追捕对象的男子，表现得好像没有什么特别的事情发生似的——他登上一辆公交车，不久后下了车，抽了一支烟。
Waiting for an F train in Manhattan on Tuesday evening, Joe Wu, 35, said that the attack had frayed the nerves of subway riders as well as those of the city’s Asian community. “There’s a lot of people who are talking about it,” he said. “If you look at the past few times this has happened, it’s been Asians.”
周二晚间，在曼哈顿等候F列车的35岁男子乔·伍(Joe Wu)说，这起袭击案不禁让地铁乘客神经紧张，对纽约的亚裔社区也是如此。“很多人都在谈论这件事，”他说。“如果你回顾一下之前的几个这类案件，就会发现受害者都是亚裔。”
Mr. Darden has an extensive history of arrests, including, most recently, on Nov. 9 in Manhattan on a pickpocketing charge. After spending several days in jail, he was released on Friday pending a court date in January.
达顿已经被逮捕多次，最近一次是11月9日在曼哈顿被指控扒窃财物。他在监狱待了几天之后，于上周五获释，该案定于明年1月份开庭审理。
He was connected to the surveillance video, the police said, by a detective who believed he recognized the image of the man and pieced together his identity from arrest photographs and other information.
警方表示，把他和监控录像联系到一起，是因为一名探员觉得录像中的男子看着眼熟，于是根据被捕时拍摄的照片和其他信息查出了他的身份。
Two wanted posters were circulated earlier in the day among officers and residents in the Bronx.
周二早些时候，警方向警官和布朗克斯的居民发放了两张通缉告示。