If the wind is right, the scent of chocolate will waft up 35th Street in Brooklyn from the waterfront toward the commercial strip of Sunset Park, winding past pornography shops, liquor wholesalers and building-supply warehouses. Once you pass under the Gowanus Expressway, there is no mistaking it, even amid the exhaust of the 18-wheelers jockeying for position on the cobblestone streets in front of the loading docks of Industry City.
如果风向适宜，巧克力的香气就会从布鲁克林区的35街(35th Street)飘起，从水滨地区一路飘向落日公园(Sunset Park)的商业带，弯弯绕绕地经过几家色情用品商店、酒品批发店和五金建材仓库。当你穿过高恩努斯高速公路(Gowanus Expressway)的下方，没错，就在那儿，即便笼罩在一片卡车尾气之中，也能认得出来。那是工业城(Industry City)装卸平台前的鹅卵石道路上，一辆辆为争占位置左冲右突的18轮大货车排出的尾气。
Industry City is a complex of 16 buildings on the edge of Sunset Park, wedged between Costco and the Metropolitan Detention Center. Formerly known as Bush Terminal, a wholesalers’ port throughout the 20th century, the facility is undergoing a $100 million update, moving from a somewhat derelict warren of artists’ studios to an upscale, artisan-friendly commercial space.
所谓工业城，是一处由16栋大楼组成的综合建筑群，位于落日公园(Sunset Park)的边缘，夹在好市多超市(Costco)与大都会拘留中心(Metropolitan Detention Center)之间。这片工业区的前身是布什码头(Bush Terminal)，一个存续了整个20世纪的批发商港口。现如今，这个港口正在进行一项耗资1亿美元（约合人民币6.2亿元）的升级改造工程，将从一个破败不堪、艺术家工作室云集的地方，变为一处欢迎手工艺人进驻的高档商业场所。
Li-Lac Chocolates, with its purple banner and inviting aromas, became one of Industry City’s more high-profile tenants when it opened in October.
因此，当这座工业城于（2014年）十月开业后，那家挂着紫色店标、飘出诱人香气的Li-Lac巧克力店，就变成了其中较为高端的一名租户。
Wraparound windows invite visitors to observe the chocolate-making process — copper kettles bubbling with sugar, the jiggling enrobing machine, a conveyor belt that shakes loose excess chocolate from candied orange slices. “Who doesn’t love chocolate?” said Anthony Luna, 17, a senior at Sunset Park High School who landed a seasonal packing job for $9 an hour during the holiday rush.
店内四面有窗，使来访者可以看到巧克力的制作过程——煮着冒泡糖浆的铜壶，微微振动的食品包装机，把多余的碎巧克力从糖渍橘瓣上抖落的传送带。“谁不爱巧克力呢？”落日公园高中(Sunset Park High School)的一名高年级学生、17岁的安东尼·卢娜(Anthony Luna)说。每逢节假日的生产高峰期，她就会在这里做个旺季的临时包装员，每小时赚9美元（约合人民币56元）。
But in fact, some people in Sunset Park were less than excited to welcome Li-Lac to the neighborhood. One of them was Elizabeth Yeampierre. As the executive director of Uprose, a historically Latino community organization, Ms. Yeampierre condemned Li-Lac’s grand opening on Facebook, describing the planned festivities as “a celebration of gentrification” and urging residents to boycott the shop. Though Ms. Yeampierre has since scaled back her criticism — she later said she was speaking for herself, not Uprose — her comments might have contributed to a call for a police presence at the opening event, which attracted more than 1,000 visitors.
但实际上，在落日公园社区里，有些人对Li-Lac的到来并不是很激动，比如伊丽莎白·颜彼雷(Elizabeth Yeampierre)。她以一家历史悠久的拉美族裔社区组织Uprose常务董事的身份，在Facebook上谴责了Li-Lac的盛大开业，把他们策划的活动描述为“一场士绅化(gentrification)的庆典”，还敦促当地居民联合抵制该店。尽管颜彼雷稍后将自己的批评言论降了级——她后来称她说的那些话都只代表自己，而不是Uprose，但她的这番评论或许还是惊动了警察，在这次吸引了1000多名参观者的开业活动上现身。
Chris Taylor, 52, a co-owner of Li-Lac, said the potential for a boycott caught him off guard. “I got an email from someone in the community two days before the opening and thought it was a joke,” he recalled. “It took me a few days to realize it was serious.”
今年52岁的克里斯·泰勒(Chris Taylor)是Li-Lac巧克力店的共同所有人。他说自己完全没想到会遭到联合抵制。“开业前两天的时候，我收到社区里某个人发来的邮件，我还以为这只是玩笑，”他回忆道，“过了好几天我才明白过来，这件事很严重。”
Mr. Taylor expressed surprise that Li-Lac would be cast as a gentrifier. “Our founder was an immigrant from Greece,” he said. “Two of the three current co-owners are immigrants.” One of them, Anwar Khoder, 54, emigrated from Lebanon to Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, nearly three decades ago and worked as a taxi driver before becoming Li-Lac’s master chocolatier.
泰勒表示非常惊讶，他没想到Li-Lac店会被当成一种士绅化的现象。“我们的创始人是一位来自希腊的移民，”他说，“现在的三位共同所有人当中，有两位也都是移民。”今年54岁的安瓦尔·科代(Anwar Khoder)就是其中一位。大约三十年前，他离开黎巴嫩，千里迢迢来到布鲁克林的湾脊区(Bay Ridge)，当了一名出租车司机，后来就成为Li-Lac店的巧克力大师。
“We’re locals,” said another owner, Anthony Cirone, 49. “We’re not an unknown corporate entity owned by unnamed people in faraway places.”
“我们都是本地人，”另一位今年49岁的所有人安东尼·奇罗内(Anthony Cirone)说，“我们不是那种不知谁在哪个偏远地方建的、没听说过的法人实体。”
But the idea that a sudden influx of money might disrupt the character of a neighborhood should surprise no one. “The industrial waterfront has always been a walk-to-work community,” Ms. Yeampierre said. “It needs to be a place where blue-collar people can live and work. I was reacting to what I was seeing as a trend to hurt the composition of the neighborhood.” She expressed fear that high-end shops selling artisanal wares — places like Liddabit Sweets, Blue Marble Ice Cream and Colson Patisserie, which have all set up shop in Industry City — would transform the neighborhood into another Dumbo or Chelsea, mowing down smaller establishments.
但是，忽然涌入的一大笔钱很可能会破坏一片社区的风格，这种想法应该谁都不陌生。“这处水滨工业区一直是个适合步行上班的社区，”颜彼雷说，“这里必须成为一个蓝领阶级可以生活和工作的地方。所以，当某种趋势危及该社区的社会构成时，我必须对我所看到的情况做出反应。”她害怕那些销售手工制品的高档店铺——比如Liddabit Sweets糖果店、蓝色大理石冰淇淋(Blue Marble Ice Cream)和寇尔森法式蛋糕店(Colson Patisserie)，这几家商户都在工业城里开了店——会把这个社区变成另一个丹波区(Dumbo)或切尔西区，然后像割草一样，赶走那些小铺子。
And yet Li-Lac is itself a victim of high rents and real-estate churn.
然而，Li-Lac本身就是高额租金与混乱房产市场的一名受害者。
Ten years ago, Li-Lac Chocolates moved from its original home at 120 Christopher Street in Manhattan, where it had been for 81 years, to a storefront on Jane Street. There was no room for manufacturing in the West Village, so the factory occupied a smaller industrial spot farther south in Sunset Park until Industry City became available. “We were ready to throw in the towel on New York, because making chocolate in Manhattan is no longer viable,” Mr. Taylor said. “Our store on Jane Street is surrounded by shops with purses and shoes without price tags, so that tells you something.”
十年前，Li-Lac巧克力店从曼哈顿克里斯托弗街120号(120 Christopher Street)这处经营了81年的原址，搬到珍街(Jane Street)的一处店面。由于西村(West Village)没有场地进行生产，所以这家巧克力厂仅在落日公园的最南端占据了一个较小的加工点，直到后来工业城投入使用。“我们差点就打算放弃纽约了，因为在曼哈顿生产巧克力很难再存活下去，”泰勒说，“我们珍街的店面旁边，都是一些销售钱包和鞋子的商店，他们的商品都没有贴上价格标签，这多少会让你明白点什么。”
The 10,000-square-foot Industry City facility is 15 times larger than the West Village storefront — and the tiny Manhattan shop costs 18 times more per square foot, Mr. Taylor said. According to Mr. Taylor, many chocolate wholesalers are moving to Pennsylvania, where rents and taxes are lower. With Li-Lac being one of Manhattan’s oldest chocolate companies, “we wanted to be in New York,” he said.
那个占地面积1万平方英尺（约929平方米）的工业城厂区，比Li-Lac在西村的店面还大15倍；而他们在曼哈顿的小店面每平方英尺的租金比这里贵18倍，泰勒说。据泰勒介绍，许多巧克力批发商正在搬往宾夕法尼亚州(Pennsylvania)，因为那里的租金与税收更廉价。但Li-Lac是曼哈顿最老牌的巧克力制造商之一，所以“我们想留在纽约。”他说。
Some local business owners “uphill,” on the commercial stretches of Fourth and Fifth Avenues, report that Industry City has actually been a boon to their operations. Jose Luis Hernandez, 39, a co-owner of Café Zona Sur, a tin-ceilinged fusion bistro that offers free-range chicken and a risotto of the day, said he often received 30- or 40-person catering orders from the complex.
在第四大道与第五大道的商业地带，一些尚在本地挣扎的商户表示，工业城对他们的运营而言其实是个福利。餐馆兼酒吧Café Zona Sur的一位共同所有人、39岁的约瑟·路易斯·赫尔南德斯(Jose Luis Hernandez)说，他常常从工业城接到30至40人规模的备餐订单。这家店内装有锡顶天花板、以散养鸡作为食材、每日特供意大利调味饭。
Renée Giordano, 63, executive director of the Sunset Park Business Improvement District, noted that the products made at Industry City “aren’t heavy competition” for the existing businesses on Fifth Avenue. The bustling street is dotted with 24-hour check-cashing services, sneaker stores, no-frills laundromats, restaurants and barber shops that stay open for card games long after the floors have been swept clean.
落日公园经济开发区(Sunset Park Business Improvement District)的常务董事、今年63岁的蕾妮·佐丹奴(Renée Giordano)指出，工业城制造的产品对于第五大道现有的经济而言，“并不构成严峻的竞争”。这条繁忙的街道有24小时支票兑现服务，有销售运动鞋的商店，有简易的自助洗衣店，有餐馆，还有因为有人在店里玩牌、即便地板已经清扫干净仍会开到深夜的理发店。
So far, Ms. Giordano said, she has not noticed people trickling uphill to patronize the shops on Fifth Avenue after visiting Industry City. “But as long as those businesses interact with and hire from the community, it can’t hurt,” she said.
佐丹奴说，迄今为止，她尚未发现有人在工业城逛过后，还会不辞辛劳地去惠顾第五大道的商店。“不过，只要那里的商业仍与当地社区存在互动，并从社区里聘请员工，就也没什么坏处。”她说。
“Gentrification will probably come up at any community board meeting you’d ever attend in New York City,” said Daniel Murphy, 44, chairman of Brooklyn’s Community Board 7, which includes Sunset Park. “We see Industry City as a change. If you see every change as a threat, your amygdala is too active.” He pointed out that neighborhoods are constantly in flux. As he put it, “You can never walk down the same city block twice.”
“你在纽约市参加任何一场社区管委会的会议，都有可能碰到士绅化的问题，”布鲁克林第七社区委员会的主席、今年44岁的丹尼尔·墨菲(Daniel Murphy)说，该委员会的辖区就包括落日公园，“我们把工业城看成一种变化。如果你把每种变化都看作威胁，就是杞人忧天了，”他指出，许多社区其实一直都在变化。正如他所说的，“你永远不可能两次走过同一片街区。”
The adage certainly holds true in Sunset Park, one of the most diverse neighborhoods in Brooklyn. Over the years, it has been predominantly Scandinavian, then Irish and Italian, then Puerto Rican and then Mexican. Today, Community District 7 — bordered by 15th Street to the north, Eighth Avenue or Fort Hamilton Parkway to the east, 65th Street to the south and the waterfront to the west — is largely Latino and Asian. The number of non-Hispanic whites increased almost 8 percent between the 2000 and 2010 census, but that demographic group is still a minority.
用这句格言来形容落日公园，真是丝毫不差。这是布鲁克林最多元化的一个社区。近年来，该社区内主要是斯堪的纳维亚人，其次是爱尔兰人和意大利人，然后是波多黎各人，还有一些墨西哥人。如今，在第7社区这个北至15街，东至第八大道或福哈明顿公园大道(Fort Hamilton Parkway)毗邻，南至65街，西至水滨地带的地域范围内，主要聚居的是拉美人和亚洲人。在2000年与2010年的两次人口普查之间，非西班牙裔白人的数量增加了近8%，但该人口群体仍是少数。