Quick, name a New York neighborhood that has investors from China buying properties. Midtown? TriBeCa? The Upper East Side?
快来猜一下，纽约市哪个街区正有中国投资者现身买房？曼哈顿中城(Midtown)? 坚尼街下面的三角地区“翠贝卡”(TriBeCa)? 还是上东区(Upper East Side)?
Guess again. They’re going to Queens.
再猜。他们要去的是皇后区(Queens)。
The borough of airports and the Mets has boasted a thriving East-Asian community for decades, in Flushing, so perhaps the destination doesn’t come as a total surprise. But when interest began to build among Chinese citizens a few years ago, its focus was a handful of high-end, high-rise condominiums in Manhattan.
坐拥两座机场和大都会棒球队(the Mets)的皇后区囊括了法拉盛(Flushing)，数十年来那里形成了一个繁荣的东亚裔社区，依此看来皇后区这个选择并不出人意料。但数年前中国公民开始越来越多地表露投资纽约地产的意向时，他们关注的却是曼哈顿区(Manhattan)少数的高端、高层公寓。
Now, as the pool widens to include more upper-middle-class buyers — and as Chinese investors overall diversify their bets — Queens is reaping the benefits, according to developers, lenders and brokers.
据房地产开发商、贷款方和房产经纪人称，现在投资人群体变得更广大了，接纳了更多上层中产阶级买家，而中国投资人整体上也愈加注重分散投资，因而使皇后区坐收其利。
“In the beginning, there was a lot of well-to-do people from China buying here,” said Bill Seto, a residential broker in Flushing who was born in Hong Kong but has worked around the city for three decades. “But in the last year, it started to be different.” Mr. Seto is also the president of the Chinese American Real Estate Association, a local trade group whose 350 members include lawyers, title companies and mortgage brokers. “These new buyers have just come into wealth,” he said, “and they also want to invest it in New York.”
“最开始，有来自中国的大量富人到此购房，”法拉盛的住宅地产经纪人司徒豪威(Bill Seto)说。他生于香港，但已在纽约市工作了30年。“不过去年，情况开始改变。”司徒豪威身兼华美地产商会(Chinese American Real Estate Association)会长，这是当地一家有350名会员的行业协会，成员包括律师、财产保险公司和房产抵押贷款经纪人。“这些新买家刚刚致富，”他说道，“而且他们想投资纽约市。”
Measuring this trend can be difficult; deeds don’t generally indicate a buyer’s country of origin. And because some buyers speak mostly Mandarin, and seek out agents who can do the same, the number of brokers who can reliably vouch for the phenomenon is limited.
量化研究这种趋势有一定困难，毕竟房契上一般不会写明购买者的国籍。同时，有些购买者主要说汉语，找的中介商也是说中文的，所以能可靠地印证此现象的经纪人数量有限。
Still, buyers from mainland China today can account for as many as half of the buyers at certain buildings in “Falasheng” (as the area is known in Mandarin) and surrounding neighborhoods, brokers say. A few years ago there were virtually none.
不过，一些经纪人仍然指出，在法拉盛及其周边地带，中国大陆购房者能占到某些楼盘买家的半数。几年前，这里几乎没有中国人买房。
Ten of the 21 units that have sold in the condominium portion of One Fulton Square, a mixed-use project on Prince Street in Flushing, have gone to Chinese buyers, according to Mr. Seto, who is marketing the project for the F&T Group, the developer. One-bedrooms in the 43-unit building start at $550,000.
司徒豪威称，坐落于法拉盛地区王子街(Prince Street)的多功能地产项目“富顿广场一号”(One Fulton Square)，其公寓部分已售出的21套中，有10套是中国人买走的。司徒豪威目前在为该项目的开发商富顿集团(F&T Group)进行市场营销。该公寓楼共有43套房产，这里的一居室公寓的起价为55万美元。
Similarly, overseas buyers are flocking to Sky View Parc, a 448-unit Flushing condo complex owned by Onex Real Estate Partners. About 135 of the 410 units that have sold so far have gone to buyers from China, said Helen Lee, an Onex director, adding that one-bedrooms, which started at $500,000, are now sold out.
与之类似的是同在法拉盛的“天景豪苑”(Sky View Parc)，这是Onex地产合作公司(Onex Real Estate Partners)拥有的一个公寓项目，共有448套房。Onex的董事海伦·李(Helen Lee)称，已经售出的410套中，有135套归属中国购房者。她还补充道，起价50万美元的一居室已告售罄。
For many Chinese buyers in this latest wave, the apartments are investments and will be rented out, according to Ms. Lee, who says that Sky View often has tenants lined up before a deal even closes.
海伦·李称，在最近这一波中国购房者中，很多人是为了投资而购房，所购房屋将用于出租。她说，天景豪苑常常是售房交易还没完成，就有租户排起队来。
These tenants tend to be students at Queens College, the Fashion Institute of Technology or Parsons, the design school, though usually not the children of the buyers, she said; some of the buyers also own homes in Manhattan.
住在这里的人多是附近的大学生，他们来自纽约市立大学皇后学院(Queens College)、纽约州立大学时装技术学院(Fashion Institute of Technology)和帕森设计学院(Parsons)等院校。不过，他们一般不是买主的子女，海伦·李说。有的买主在曼哈顿也购有住房。
“This is no longer about going after some Fifth Avenue apartment for prestige and status,” Ms. Lee declared.
“现在中国人的买房动机已不再是追逐第五大道(Fifth Avenue)等高端地段的公寓，以彰显其身份和地位了，”海伦·李如是说。
The influx of Chinese buyers has prompted several studies on their buying trends. Nationally, New York would appear to have some catching up to do. More Chinese buyers snapped up homes in California than in other states, according to a report on international buyers released in June by the National Association of Realtors. In fact, 53 percent of Chinese purchases in the United States were made in California, the report found. Illinois, with 5 percent, came in a distant second, followed by Massachusetts, North Carolina and Texas, in a three-way tie at 4 percent. New York had 3 percent.
中国买家的涌入引发了对其购买趋势的一些研究。放眼全美，纽约尚未赶上整体水平。全美房地产经纪商协会(National Association of Realtors)6月发布的一份国际购房者研究报告显示，中国买家最喜欢在加利福尼亚置业。报告发现，中国人在美国所置房产有53%在加州，远超以5%排在第二位的伊利诺伊州(Illinois)，而马萨诸塞州(Massachusetts)、北卡罗来纳州(North Carolina)和德克萨斯州(Texas)均以4%并列第三。纽约仅占3%.
Canada is the country from which most foreign buyers are coming, representing 23 percent of all deals, the report found; China was second, with 12 percent, followed by Mexico, with 8 percent.
该报告还发现，房产交易中最大的外国买家群体来自加拿大，占所有交易的23%。中国以12%的数据位居次席。墨西哥排在第三，为8%. 
But China accounted for just 5 percent of all foreign deals in 2009, the report noted, and that rose to 11 percent in 2012.
2009年，中国还只占所有跨境房产交易量的5%，该报告指出。而到了2012年，这一比例升至11%.
A comparable spike may be around the corner for New York City, according to Juwai.com, a Web site created to help buyers from China find overseas properties. Started in 2011, Juwai (pronounced JOO-why) offers a few million home listings in 53 countries. The site can be loaded either in simplified Chinese characters, for mainland Chinese, or traditional Chinese for people in Hong Kong and elsewhere. Unlike other real estate sites, Juwai, based in Shanghai, pays careful attention to its translations, said Andrew Taylor, a founder of the company, adding that the few English-based sites that try to translate listings often get it wrong.
为服务中国购买者搜索海外房地产信息而建立的“居外海外房产网”(Juwai.com)称，此等规模的中国人置业增幅，可能很快就会出现在纽约。自2011年起，居外网开始提供分布在53个国家的数百万条房地产挂牌信息。该网站既针对大陆人士提供简体中文，又提供繁体字版以服务香港和其他地区的华人。公司创始人之一安德鲁·泰勒(Andrew Taylor)说，与其他房地产网站不同的是，设立在上海的居外网注重译文的准确性。他补充道，试图将房产信息翻译成汉语的英文房地产网站寥寥无几，而且还经常犯错。
“The Chinese comes off at best, stupid, and at worst, misleading or offensive to the consumer,” Mr. Taylor said.
“他们写出的中文，往好里说也算的上愚蠢，而糟糕者则对客户构成误导或造成不悦。”泰勒说道。
Juwai’s precise translation costs brokers $158 a month for 20 listings, which also covers additional explanatory marketing on the Web page to help buyers distinguish between, say, Murray Hill in Manhattan and Murray Hill in Queens. In addition, Juwai operators field calls from buyers in a variety of Chinese dialects, before directing them to listing agents. Access for consumers is free.
凭借其准确的翻译，居外网以每20项房屋列表信息158美元的月费向地产经纪商开价，这里面包括了网站上额外的解释性营销文案，比如帮助购买者区分曼哈顿区和皇后区同样名为“穆雷山”(Murray Hill)的两个地段。此外，居外网的接线员在转接给房地产信息中介商之前，还能用多种汉语方言应答客户电话。客户访问网站是免费的。
So far, the United States has been the No. 1 search for Chinese buyers, according to a new Juwai report, with New York leading all other American cities. In May, New York was the recipient of 26,437 Web searches, versus 19,989 for Los Angeles and 16,434 for San Francisco.
居外的一份新报告显示，目前中国买家的头号搜索目标是美国，而纽约市又位居美国各城市之首。5月，对纽约的搜索达到了26437次，相比之下洛杉矶为19989次，而旧金山为16434次。
And Queens draws the most interest; it had 9 of 10 of the most-searched neighborhoods from January through April, according to Juwai, whose listings emphasize middle-of-the-pack homes over luxury ones. Kew Gardens claimed the top spot, followed by Flushing and Forest Hills. Others that garnered interest were Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Rego Park, where many Asian families have put down roots. Howard Beach, historically an Italian-American enclave, finished at No. 9.  But there may be a simple explanation:   Waterfront destinations account for about half of all the places around the world that Chinese buyers are interested in, according to Juwai, even if there’s not much sand in Howard Beach.
其中，皇后区吸引了最多的注意力；注重收录中档房产而非高端房产的居外网称，1月到4月间，搜索量的前10名中有9个在皇后区。排名首位的是丘园(Kew Gardens)地区，其后是法拉盛和森林小丘(Forest Hill)。买家热衷的其他地段有艾姆赫斯特(Elmhurst)，杰克逊高地(Jackson Heights)和雷哥公园(Rego Park)，这些地方有很多亚裔家庭安家落户。传统上的意大利裔“飞地”霍华德海滩(Howard Beach)位列第9名，不过其原因或许很简单：根据居外网的数据，全球受到中国海外购房者关注的房产，有半数坐落在沿岸地区，尽管霍华德海滩并无甚沙滩可言。
Jacques Ambron, the broker/owner of Madeleine Realty in Forest Hills, says that in the last year he has begun receiving calls from China for the first time in his 32 years selling homes, and that those buyers appear interested in neighborhoods beyond Flushing. At a recent open house in Kew Garden Hills, all of the 20 buyers who lined up early to get in were Asian, he said, and a handful appeared to be from overseas. (The property was a fairly standard Queens dwelling — a semidetached two-family with a small front yard. It was listed at $465,000, and sold for $483,000 to a local buyer, Mr. Ambron said.)
位于森林小丘的Madeleine Realty房产经纪公司所有者，地产经纪人雅克·安布伦(Jacques Ambron)说，去年他接到了中国打来的电话，这在他32年从事住房销售的经历中还是头一回。而且，这些中国买家感兴趣的地段不再局限于法拉盛。他介绍道，最近在丘园地区进行的一次看房活动上，20名早早赶来排队的购房者全都是亚裔面孔，其中还有几人看上去是来海外来客。该房产是皇后区一所十分典型的住宅——带有小前院的半独立式双排屋，标价46.5万美元，后以48.3万美元的价格卖给了当地一位买主，安布伦说。
“Flushing has become so dense,” he added, “there may be nowhere to go but out.”
“法拉盛已经很拥挤了，”他又说道，“想买房也许非得去别处才行。”
Though people may be poring over listings 7,000 or so miles away, that doesn’t mean they’re all beating a path to New York. Some brokers who have Queens listings on the Juwai site say they have yet to hear from buyers from China. “I really, really hope they come,” said Carolyn DeFalco of Re/Max Liberty, who in July listed a two-bedroom condo with a private terrace in Howard Beach for $269,000.
尽管中国人或许正在查看万里外的挂牌房产，这并不意味着他们都想去纽约。有些将皇后区房产信息挂在居外网上的经纪人还没能联系到中国客户。“我非常非常盼望他们能来，”Re/Max Liberty房产公司的卡罗琳·德法尔科(Carolyn DeFalco)说。7月，该公司以26.9万美元的价格将霍华德海滩一套带私人阳台的两居室公寓挂牌。
Mr. Taylor noted that Chinese buyers face restrictions at home: the country limits how much money can be transferred out in a year, for example, and securing a visa to come over for house-hunting can take several months.
泰勒注意到，中国的买房者在他们本国受到诸多制约。比如，中国限制每年向境外汇款的额度，而且办理赴美国寻房之旅的签证可能要花上数月时间。
Still, he said, the intense Chinese desire to invest in other places is being fueled by insecurity among the newly rich, who worry that their wealth could vanish if the political winds shifted. “It will be interesting to see how these places go in the next six months,” he said.
不过，他指出，中国新富阶层的不安全感还是驱动着他们向国外投资。这些人担心，一旦政治风向有变，他们的财富可能消散无踪。“这些地段接下来六个月里走势如何，将值得关注，”他说道。
Another reason driving Chinese interest in overseas properties, according to Juwai and local real estate brokers, is education; many families want their children to enroll in American schools, whether public or private, and homes here can be a ticket in. Although the Chinese market may be widening, some constants still apply, brokers say.  New construction is preferable to old, as are condominiums to co-ops. And for ideal feng shui, southern exposure tops a list of important factors.
据居外网和纽约本地房地产经纪商分析，推动中国人在海外置地热情的另一个原因是教育。很多家庭希望子女进入美国的学校，无论是公立还是私立的。而拥有当地的房产则是一条可行道路。尽管来自中国的商机似乎正在增长，但有些规律还是不变的，经纪人们说。新房胜过旧房，分契式公寓(condominium)胜过合作住房(co-op)。而且，出于好风水的考虑，面对南方向阳朝向是选房条件的重中之重。
And, of course, Manhattan continues to enjoy strong interest among Chinese buyers looking to spend $3 million and up. Luxury condominiums like the Aldyn, the Rushmore and Carlton House — all uptown properties from the Extell Development Company — are a strong draw for Chinese, said Nikki Field of Sotheby’s International Realty, who in 2008 began reaching out to such clients. Last year 22 percent of her buyers were from China, she said, and she just hired a Mandarin-speaking associate.
当然，希望花3百万美元以上购房的中国人依然青睐曼哈顿区。苏富比国际房地产经纪公司(Sotheby's International Realty)的妮基·菲尔德(Nikki Field)说，Aldyn、Rushmore和Carlton House这些由Extell房地产开发公司所建的高档豪华公寓对中国人有着强大的吸引力。菲尔德从2008年开始接触这些客户。她介绍说，去年她的购房客户有22%来自中国，最近她刚雇用了一名能讲汉语的副手。
Asher Alcobi, the president of Peter Ashe Real Estate on the Upper East Side, says that 30 percent of his business is from China, Hong Kong or Singapore. Two of the three condo units he recently sold at the Chelsea Green, now under construction in Chelsea, went to Chinese citizens.
上东城地区一家房地产经纪公司Peter Ashe Real Estate的总裁阿什尔·阿尔科比(Asher Alcobi)称，他有30%的业务来自中国、香港和新加坡。最近，他售出了切尔西(Chelsea)街区在建楼盘Chelsea Green的三套公寓，其中两套卖给了中国公民。
Iris Chen of Hong Kong bought a one-bedroom there for about $1 million. In 2011 she acquired two one-bedrooms at Trump SoHo for a combined $1.8 million; they are rented out most of the time, though she occasionally stays there when visiting New York. Ms. Chen says she will very likely lease the Chelsea Green unit when the building opens next year.
香港的艾瑞斯·陈(Iris Chen)以约1百万美元的价格买下了该楼盘的一套一居室公寓。2011年，她共支出180万美元购买了Trump SoHo楼盘的两套一居室公寓。这两套房大多数时间用来出租，不过她偶尔来纽约时会去那里住。她表示，明年Chelsea Green竣工后，她很可能也把该处房产租出去。
“The property market in China is too expensive; the same money here won’t buy the same thing there,” she said. “Chinese people want new opportunities, which is why they are putting their money overseas.”
“中国房地产市场价格太高，同样的钱在那里可买不到和这里一样的东西，”她说，“中国人想要获得新的投资机会，这就是他们把钱投往海外的原因。”