New York University, which has become known for its global aspirations as much as its enviable home in Greenwich Village, named the head of one of the world’s most prestigious universities as its 16th president on Wednesday.
纽约大学着眼全球的雄心壮志与它在格林尼治村令人称羡的本部校园名气相当。该校于本周三任命了自己的第16届校长，此人目前在全世界声望最高的一所大学中担任高层。
When the new president, Andrew Hamilton, leaves his post at Oxford University to join N.Y.U. in January, he will be walking into a set of complex challenges. He will be leading a university with aggressive expansion plans, both internationally and in New York, where those plans are tied up in a court battle.
新任校长安德鲁·汉密尔顿(Andrew Hamilton)将于明年1月份从牛津大学离职，加入纽约大学的领导队伍，届时他将会面对一系列复杂的挑战。他将率领一所在海外和纽约同时实施积极扩张方案的大学，而它在纽约的方案目前正陷入一场官司中。
Relations between the administration and faculty have been strained; in 2013, the faculty of five of N.Y.U.’s schools passed votes of no confidence in John Sexton, the current president who will be retiring.
该校行政部门与教师之间的关系已经变得十分紧张：2013年，纽约大学五大院系的全体教师集体投票决定，他们已对即将退休的现任校长约翰·塞克斯通(John Sexton)失去信心。
And at a time of national debate about the cost of college, Dr. Hamilton will face pressure to address the high level of debt that N.Y.U.’s students take on. Despite being one of the country’s more selective universities, N.Y.U. has a relatively modest endowment, and as a consequence is one of the most expensive nonprofit four-year colleges in the United States.
此外，鉴于当前正值全美针对大学费用展开争论之际，汉密尔顿博士还将面临解决纽约大学学生背负巨额债务问题的压力。尽管纽约大学是美国比较难进的大学之一，但该校所获得的捐款相对并不充裕，因此，它也是美国学费最贵的非营利四年制大学之一。
In an interview, Dr. Hamilton, who called himself “an academic at heart,” seemed undaunted by the challenges, saying that he was excited about his new post and about moving to the “lively, loud, raucous city of New York.”
在一次采访中，自诩为“内心向学”的汉密尔顿博士，在这些挑战面前似乎毫无惧色，他表示，能够获得这份新工作，还有即将前往“纽约这座生机勃勃、喧嚣浮华的城市”任职，让他感到十分兴奋。
Asked how he would soothe tensions with the faculty, Dr. Hamilton said that he would be one of them since he plans to continue teaching and doing research, and would listen closely to their opinions.
在被问到将会采取什么措施以缓和与教师之间的关系时，汉密尔顿博士称，鉴于他计划继续担任教职和延续研究活动，他也将成为教师队伍的一员，并且会近距离地听取教师们的意见。
“I would very much want to engage, to listen, to hear the ideas, the thoughts of the N.Y.U. faculty,” he said. “I am one of them, and I am committed, as they are, to ensuring that N.Y.U.’s trajectory of great success and enhancement of its core teaching and research missions — that that trajectory continues.”
“我将会非常愿意面对、倾听、听取纽约大学教师们的创意与想法，”他说，“我是他们当中的一员，我和他们一样，一心希望为纽约大学的伟大成功之路保驾护航，同时确保进一步升华纽约大学教学与研究活动的核心使命——也就是让本校的成功之路得以延续下去。”
Dr. Hamilton, 62, has been Oxford’s vice chancellor — the equivalent of a university president in the American system — since 2009. Before that, he was the provost of Yale, where he was also a professor of chemistry and molecular biophysics.
62岁的汉密尔顿博士自2009年以来，一直在担任牛津大学的副校长一职——相当于美国的教育体系中的大学校长。在此之前，他是耶鲁大学的教务长，同时兼任化学与分子生物物理学教授。
At Yale, where he had a rapid rise after joining the faculty in 1997, he was credited with recruiting world-class professors and leading the development of a 136-acre science and medical campus outside New Haven.
他在1997年加入耶鲁的教师队伍后，经历了一段快速晋升的时期。他对该校的主要贡献，就是聘到了数名世界级的教授，并且主导了耶鲁在纽黑文市以外共计136英亩的科学与医学校区的开发项目。
At Oxford, Dr. Hamilton succeeded a vice chancellor whose popularity sank after he tried to add more nonfaculty members to the governing council.
转任牛津时，汉密尔顿博士接替了副校长一职。此前的副校长在企图增加非教师身份的理事会会员后，便人气大跌。
Dr. Hamilton’s tenure was calm by comparison. Amid sharp cuts in government financing of universities, he was an effective fund-raiser, leading what Oxford described as the largest fund-raising campaign in European university history.
相较之下，汉密尔顿博士的任期则显得风平浪静。面对政府对大学扶持资金的骤减，他成功地募集到了牛津所需的援助资金，成为了被牛津形容为欧洲大学史上规模最大的融资运动中的领导人物。
He drew a few gasps, but also some praise, by arguing that top British universities should be able to raise tuition prices, which are capped by the government, to cover their costs.
他曾主张，顶级的英国大学应该有权给目前由英国政府指定上限的学费加价，以便有能力负担校内的开支，这番言论令外界瞠目结舌，但也获得了一些称赞。
“He was the right person for the moment,” Neal MacFarlane, a professor of international relations and a member of Oxford’s Council, said in an email on Wednesday.
“他是那一时期的理想人选，”牛津大学国际关系学教授兼理事会成员尼尔·麦克法兰(Neal MacFarlane)在周三的一封电子邮件中如此表示。
In general, Oxford’s vice chancellors serve only a single seven-year term, so Dr. Hamilton was due to leave next year. He had been courted by other universities, including the University of Texas, where he was a leading candidate for its presidency.
一般而言，牛津历任副校长的任期仅有七年且不可连任，因此，汉密尔顿博士的任期也将于明年到期。他也先后收到了其他大学发出的邀请，包括将他列为校长候选人首选的得克萨斯大学(University of Texas)。
Allen Mincer, a physics professor and the incoming chairman of the N.Y.U. Tenured/Tenure Track Faculty Senators Council, said that from all he had heard, Dr. Hamilton seemed to fit what the faculty was seeking in its next president.
物理学教授艾伦·明瑟(Allen Mincer)是纽约大学终身及准终身教职教师理事会(N.Y.U. Tenured/Tenure Track Faculty Senators Council)的下任主席，他表示，从他所听到的所有消息来看，汉密尔顿博士应该完全符合教师们对下任校长的期望。
“His scholarship, his productivity and his track record of success in leadership in institutions — all of that just sounds very good,” Mr. Mincer said.
“他在学院的领导工作中所表现出的学识、能力以及过往的丰功伟绩——所有这一切听上去都十分出色，”明瑟先生说。
Dr. Hamilton, who is married and has three adult children, described his research as sitting at the intersection of chemistry and biology, seeking ways to use chemistry to intervene in biological systems, specifically human diseases.
汉密尔顿先生目前已婚，膝下的三名子女均已成年。他将自己的研究工作形容为一门介乎于化学与生物学之间的交叉学科，专事探索利用化学干预生物系统之道，尤其是人类疾病领域。
Dr. Sexton enhanced N.Y.U.’s prestige, attracting star faculty members and presiding over a large increase in student applications.
塞克斯通博士加强了纽约大学的声望，吸引到了若干明星教师加盟，并且实现了学生申请人数的大幅增长。
Under him, N.Y.U. has become a trendsetter among American universities for its aggressive expansion abroad, having opened degree-granting campuses in Shanghai and Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates.
在他的管理下，纽约大学在海外积极扩张，先后于中国上海和阿联酋首都阿布扎比两地，设立了可授予该校学位的分校，从而成为了美国众所大学中的时代潮流创造者。
That growth has also brought criticism, especially at the Abu Dhabi campus, where construction was financed and overseen by the government and where laborers said they were mistreated.
这一发展同样引来了若干抨击，尤其是位于阿联酋的阿布扎比分校——该校的校园建设由当地政府资助和监督，而参与建设工程的工人声称自己遭到了虐待。
Faculty members have also raised concerns about academic freedom on those campuses. Last weekend, an N.Y.U. professor learned that he had been barred from the United Arab Emirates after criticizing the exploitation of migrant workers there.
该校教师也对这些分校内部的学术自由度产生了诸多担忧。上周末，一名纽约大学教授就发现，自己在对阿联酋的移民劳工所遭受的剥削发出抨击之声后，竟已被阿联酋禁止入境。
In New York, the university is fighting a lawsuit from opponents of a plan to add two million square feet of space to its holdings in and around Greenwich Village.
在纽约当地，这所大学则正在迎战一批反对者发起的法律诉讼——该校计划在格林尼治村境内及其周边地区，再另外拓展200万平方英尺的校园面积，却遭到了激烈反对。
N.Y.U. would not discuss Dr. Hamilton’s compensation, but it is almost certainly higher than his pay at Oxford, reported to be £442,000, or $660,000. Dr. Sexton earned $1.5 million in total compensation in the 2012-13 school year, according to the most recent publicly available tax returns.
纽约大学方面不肯透露汉密尔顿博士的具体薪酬，不过基本可以确定，这个数字一定会高于他在牛津大学的报酬——官方数字为44.2万英镑，约合66万美元（约合401万元）。根据最新公开的所得税申报单披露，塞克斯通博士在2012—2013学年中的薪酬收入共计150万美元（约合932万元）。
N.Y.U. picked Dr. Hamilton from over 200 nominees. It did not disclose who the other candidates were. But at one point, Michael Lynton, the chief executive of Sony Entertainment, wanted the job, according to emails that were published online during the Sony hacking scandal last year.
纽约大学是在200多名人选中挑中汉密尔顿博士的。该校并未披露其他的候选人身份。不过根据索尼公司(Sony)在去年遭遇黑客攻击丑闻期间被公布在网上的多封电子邮件内容来看，至少索尼娱乐(Sony Entertainment)的首席执行官迈克尔·林顿(Michael Lynton)曾一度想要争取这个职位。
According to the emails, Mr. Lynton discussed his desire for the job last fall with the New Yorker writer Malcolm Gladwell.
根据这些邮件披露，林顿先生曾在去年秋季时，对《纽约客》(New Yorker)的撰稿人马尔科姆·格拉德威尔(Malcolm Gladwell)谈到了自己想要入主纽约大学的愿望。