NEW YORK — On the last day of his last term as mayor of New York, Michael R. Bloomberg put on a pinstripe gray-and-blue suit, tied a red-and-white tie, and soaked up something that is rarely proffered: the unabashed gratitude of a brusque city.
纽约——在担任纽约市长的最后一个任期的最后一天，迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)穿了一身蓝色灰细条纹套装，系了一条红底白花领带，同时享受着一份难得的馈赠：一个简慢无礼的城市给予的不加掩饰的谢意。
Outside the New York Public Library, a husky middle-age man with a heavy Brooklyn accent walked up to him, hand outstretched.
在纽约公共图书馆(New York Public Library)外，一名带着浓重布鲁克林口音的粗壮中年男子向他走去，伸出了一只手。
“Mayor Bloomberg,” the man shouted, “you did a great job. Thank you for being our mayor for the past 12 years.”
这名男子大声说道，“布隆伯格市长，你的工作非常出色。谢谢你在过去12年担任我们的市长。”
The mayor broke his stride, turned and smiled.
阔步行进的布隆伯格停下来，转过身，微笑。
“I wish you could stay on,” the man added.
这名男子接着说，“我真希望你继续做下去。”
The mayor’s smile widened. He shook his hand.
布隆伯格笑得更开心了。他们握了手。
So it went on Tuesday, as the city absorbed the end an improbable era — the C.E.O. Mayor — that began in the dark days after Sept. 11, 2001, and stretched, against all odds, not to mention a term-limits law, until midnight on Tuesday.
周二，这个城市迎来了一个不可思议的时代的终结。这个由首席执行官担任市长的时代始于2001年9月11日后的黑暗岁月，历经重重磨难——更不消说还有任期限制的法律——一直延续到周二的午夜才画上句号。
It was a day of valediction and nostalgia. Mr. Bloomberg, who obsesses about the passage of time, right down to the minutes left in his mayoralty, kept a watchful eye on the clock. At an interfaith breakfast inside the library, he flipped open his black leather iPad case to find a speech with a stark heading at the top. “Last Day,” it read.
这是一个告别和怀旧的日子。时间的流逝让布隆伯格心神不宁，甚至在即将卸任市长一职的最后几分钟，布隆伯格都一直在警惕地看着时钟。在图书馆与不同信仰团体吃饭时，他打开iPad黑色皮套的盖子，找到自己的演讲稿，抬头是一个质朴无华的标题：“最后一天”。
One by one, religious leaders took to the microphone, offering him praise from a source that seemed to humble even the billionaire mayor: God.
宗教团体的领袖们一个接一个拿起麦克风，表达对他的赞美，而这些赞美来自于一个似乎甚至会让这位亿万富翁市长也显得渺小的存在：上帝。
When it was his turn, Mr. Bloomberg abandoned his usual recitation of legacy-burnishing statistics. Instead, he simply thanked those in the room, reminding them that they, not he, were the on-the-ground soothers and problem-solvers who had made the city work over the past 12 years.
布隆伯格没有像往常一样背诵彰显自己政治遗产的数据。而是感谢了屋子里的人，他提醒这些人，是他们，而不是自己，在第一线抚慰世人，解决问题，在过去12年里维持着这个城市的运转。
“I have always been envious of you,” he said. “Because you work at the real level where the real problems are. At my level, you talk about them. You look at the grand scheme. You look at averages.”
他说，“我一直很羡慕你们。因为你们工作的层面也是真正问题所在的层面。在我这个层面，我们只是在讨论这些问题。你会去看大的布局。你会去看平均值。”
A children’s choir began to sing “When You Believe,” a soaring ballad about miracles.
一个儿童合唱团开始唱《当你相信》(When You Believe)，这是一首关于奇迹的高亢歌谣。
Mr. Bloomberg looked on, tapping his foot lightly, but seemed distracted. His gaze drifted slowly to the crowd, his eyes growing glassy.
布隆伯格观看着演出，轻轻地用脚打着拍子，但是似乎心不在焉。他的目光缓缓转向了人群，眼神变得平淡起来。
It was his final speech as mayor.
这是他作为市长的最后一次演讲。
The changing of the guard was evident everywhere. During Mr. Bloomberg’s last walk into City Hall, he bumped into his successor, Bill de Blasio, rehearsing his inaugural address on the front steps. The two shared a polite but awkward handshake.
交接班的痕迹随处可见。最后一次走进市政厅时，布隆伯格撞见了正在前面的台阶上排练就职演说的继任者比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)。两人礼貌地握了手，有点尴尬。
Inside, the digital countdown clocks that became a hallmark of his administration’s urgent style of governance relentlessly ticked down: 0 days, 13 hours and 30 minutes left.
市政厅的倒计时电子钟上，时间正在无情地减少：还剩下0天，13小时，30分钟。这些钟已经成为布隆伯格治下争分夺秒的执政风格的标志。
Mr. Bloomberg’s bullpen was transformed into a rolling reunion. Old aides showed up at the mayor’s desk in a nonstop procession, many of them with stroller-bound children in tow. Mr. Bloomberg patiently sat through impromptu photo sessions with them all.
布隆伯格的办公室已经变成了流水席似的重聚场所。曾经的助手不断来到市长的桌前，许多人推着婴儿车。布隆伯格耐心地坐着和他们所有人合影，成了一个即兴安排的拍照时间。
He joked about a life out of power. He would finally get around to using that library card, he promised. And take up running outdoors again (which he gave up, as impractical, once becoming mayor).
他拿失去权力后的生活开玩笑。他承诺说，他会使用这里的图书馆卡。并且重新开始户外跑步（他在担任市长后就不再这么做了，因为那是不现实的）。
He waxed about his pride after 4,383 days on the job. “I will be able to look back and tell my kids, your father tried to do something to make your life and your children’s better,” he said.
在担任纽约市长4383天之后，他没有掩饰他的骄傲。他说，“我会回首往事，对我的孩子说，你们的父亲曾经为了让你们和你们的孩子生活的更好，努力地做过一些事。”
Around 2 p.m., he sat down at his desk and pulled out a white card with his name emblazoned across the top. Below it, he wrote out a letter of congratulations to his successor, just like the one Rudolph W. Giuliani had left for him.
下午两点左右，他坐在桌前，拿出了一张白色卡片，页眉上显眼地印着他的名字。在名字下面，他写了一篇致继任者的贺词，就像鲁道夫·W·朱利亚尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)留给他的那封一样。
There were 10 hours left on the clock.
距离他卸任还有10个小时。
A little before 5 p.m., the mayor stood up on his desk, surrounded by his staff members, his sister and his younger daughter, and bid farewell.
快到下午5点的时候，市长站到了桌子上，四周是他的幕僚、他的妹妹和他的小女儿，他开始告别。
“I always wanted to stand up here,” he said.
他说，“我一直想站这上面。”
From there, he walked out of City Hall, coatless into the cold night, where a receiving line of old aides, city firefighters and police officers snaked for a quarter of a mile. “Three more terms!” yelled one of them, as Mr. Bloomberg passed.
然后，他从这里走出了市政厅，没穿大衣，走进寒冷的夜色中。他的老助手、市消防员和警察在列队等他，队伍长达400米。在布隆伯格经过的时候，有人喊道，“再做三个任期吧！”
His staff released three golden balloons in the shape of “108,” his place in the history of New York mayors.
他手下的工作人员放飞了三只做成数字“108”形状的金色气球——他是纽约的第108位市长。
Mr. Bloomberg relished the moment. “If I wasn’t happy today, I don’t know when I’d be happy,” he said.
布隆伯格很享受这一刻。他说，“今天这样还不开心，我就不知道什么时候算开心了。”
With that, he descended into the subway, swiped his senior discount MetroCard, and boarded a No. 4 train home to the Upper East Side.
说完，他走进了地铁，刷了自己的老年人折扣纽约市交通卡(MetroCard)，坐上4号线地铁，回上东区的家。
A subway passenger asked what he was looking forward to on Wednesday, when he would be a mayor no more.
一名地铁乘客问，周三他就不再是市长了，他对那一天有何期待。
“Sleep in a little bit,” he said, as the train rumbled on.
列车隆隆地行驶，他说，“睡会儿懒觉。”