It started with Instagram. Or maybe it ended with Instagram. Last fall, Christina Turner, a fashion stylist in Brooklyn, was dreading another New York winter in her cramped, lightless Greenpoint, Brooklyn, apartment while gazing longingly at the succulent gardens and festive backyard dinner parties posted on social media by her friends in Los Angeles.
它始于Instagram。它也可能终于Instagram。去年秋天，布鲁克林时尚造型师克里斯蒂娜·特纳(Christina Turner)在自己狭窄昏暗的布鲁克林绿点公寓里一边为即将到来的纽约冬天发愁，一边无限向往地盯着洛杉矶朋友们在社交媒体上发布的郁郁葱葱的花园和欢乐的后院晚宴派对照片。
“I’d see all these old familiar faces of friends I once knew in New York, all seated at the same table,” said Ms. Turner, 32, who goes by the professional name Turner.
“我看到所有这些纽约的老朋友坐在同一张桌边，”32岁的特纳（这是她在职场上的自称）说。
She could resent them, or she could join them. So in November, Ms. Turner dumped her furniture on Craigslist, piled into her battered Honda Accord and headed west, not stopping until she found a light-filled two-bedroom cottage in Echo Park, a neighborhood in eastern Los Angeles that is a magnet for young creatives.
她可以怨恨他们，也可以加入他们。所以，去年11月，特纳在克雷格分类广告网站(Craigslist)上把家具卖掉后，挤进破旧的丰田雅阁轿车，一路向西而去，直到在洛杉矶东部的回声公园(Echo Park)附近找到一个阳光充足的两居室小屋。如今，洛杉矶对年轻创意人士具有强烈吸引力。
The wagon train mentality, it seems, is taking hold among the L train set: Go west!
去西部淘金的心态似乎又在纽约创意人士当中盛行起来：向西部进发！
In an era when it has become fashionable for New Yorkers to grumble that their own city is becoming a sterile playland for the global-money set (Dubai with blizzards, basically), Los Angeles is enjoying a renaissance with a burgeoning art, fashion and food scene that has become irresistible to the culturally attuned.
如今，纽约人经常抱怨自己的城市正变成全球富豪的乏味乐园（就像有暴风雪的迪拜），而洛杉矶的艺术、时尚和美食业正在复兴，对文化爱好者具有难以抵挡的魅力。
As a result, the old New York-Los Angeles rivalry is changing, at least on the East Coast side of the equation. No longer do in-the-know New Yorkers reflexively parrot sneers like the old Woody Allen line, that the only cultural advantage of Los Angeles is the right turn on red.
因此，纽约和洛杉矶之间的传统对抗正在转变，至少东海岸这边在变。了解内情的纽约人不再条件反射般地模仿伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)老电影中的嘲讽，说什么洛杉矶唯一的文化优势就是红灯可以右转。
In some quarters, the scorn that New Yorkers once piled on Los Angeles is now sounding like envy.
在某些领域，纽约人曾经对洛杉矶积聚起来的嘲弄如今听起来像是妒忌。
Indeed, Los Angeles has seemingly become the flight fantasy of choice for the likes of Ms. Turner, who insists that anything good she was giving up in overpriced, overstressed Brooklyn is already in place on the booming east side of Los Angeles: the in-season Zambian coffee outposts, the galleries, the vintage clothing boutiques.
的确，对特纳这样的人来说，洛杉矶似乎是理想的选择。特纳坚持认为，她在物价过高、压力过大的布鲁克林放弃的所有美好事物在洛杉矶繁荣的东部早已就位：当季赞比亚咖啡分店、画廊，以及古董衫精品店。
With that area’s scruffy bohemian spirit and laid-back mood, she thinks she had found the best of her New York life without the migraines. “It’s like grown-up version of Williamsburg,” Ms. Turner said, “without the gray cloud.”
洛杉矶东区具有凌乱的波西米亚风情和放松的氛围，她觉得自己在享受纽约生活最好的部分，且不必承受纽约生活压力带来的偏头痛。“它像是成长中的威廉斯堡，”特纳说，“而且这里没有乌云。”
To anyone old enough to have seen “Annie Hall” on the big screen, such a notion sounds like apostasy. For generations, Los Angeles served as a punch line to any self-respecting New Yorker. “Just a big parking lot,” as John Lennon reportedly said; a “triumph of the garish,” as Paul Rudnick wrote. Andy Warhol claimed to embrace the city, but only because “everybody’s plastic.” “I love plastic,” he added.
年龄大到在大银幕上看过影片《安妮·霍尔》(Annie Hall)的人都会觉得，这样的想法听起来像背叛。长久以来，洛杉矶一直是自尊的纽约人嘲讽的对象。据说，约翰·列侬(John Lennon)曾说，洛杉矶“就是一个大停车场”；保罗·鲁德尼克(Paul Rudnick)写道，洛杉矶是“俗丽之地”。安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)声称自己喜欢洛杉矶，不过只是因为“那里的人都好假(plastic)”。他补充说，“我喜欢假。”
In 2000, the “Sex and the City” characters ran off to Los Angeles for a two-episode romp in the sun, but ran screaming from the vapid wasteland of bottle blondes, D-cup implants and overzealous Brazilian treatments. (“The next day four New Yorkers left L.A. a little lighter,” Carrie concluded. “Some of us had lost our hair and all of us had lost a little dignity.”)
2000年，在《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)的其中两集里，女主人公们跑到洛杉矶，在阳光下嬉戏，但是最终尖叫着逃离了这个乏味的荒漠，因为这里满是染出来的金发、隆出来的D罩杯以及过分干净的脱毛（“第二天，四个纽约人离开了洛杉矶，”卡莉[Carrie]写道，“我们都少了点东西，有的是少了些毛发，所有人都丢了点颜面”）。
But reflexive New York snobbery has gone out of vogue, even among influencers for whom New York is an identity.
不过，本能的纽约优越感已经过时，甚至在那些代表纽约的权势人物当中。
Moby, the techno pioneer who was born on West 148th Street and molded by the East Village, confessed in the The Guardian last year that he had not only moved to Los Angeles, but become such a “clichéd Angeleno” that he taunts New York friends with photos of himself by the pool in February.
莫比(Moby)是高技术音乐的开发者，他在纽约西第148街出生，在东村长大。去年，他在《卫报》(The Guardian)上承认，他不仅搬到了洛杉矶，而且成为“典型的洛杉矶人”——用2月份在泳池边的自拍照逗弄纽约的朋友们。
“I was so accustomed to the city’s absurd cult of money that it took me years to notice I didn’t have any artist friends left in Manhattan,” he wrote. Los Angeles, by comparison, is now where young artists “can really experiment, and if their efforts fall short, it’s not that bad because their rent is relatively cheap and almost everyone else they know is trying new things and failing, too.”
“我对纽约荒谬的拜金主义习以为常，所以多年以后才发现，搞艺术的朋友们都离开了曼哈顿，”他写道。相比之下，如今洛杉矶是年轻艺术家们“真正能够尝试冒险”的地方，“如果他们的创作不够好，也没太大关系，因为租金相对便宜，他们认识的人几乎都在尝试新事物，失败是常事”。
Lena Dunham once told Vogue that she could spend only two weeks in Los Angeles before starting “to get a very sad feeling,” but recently paid a reported $2.7 million for George Peppard’s former Hollywood home.
莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)曾对《Vogue》杂志说，她在洛杉矶只要呆两周，就会“情绪低落”，不过据说前不久她花270万美元买下了乔治·佩帕德(George Peppard)的好莱坞旧宅。
No less a New York mascot than Fran Lebowitz, whose jaded, cigarette-sucking visage may as well be inscribed on the city seal, also confessed to a change of heart about Los Angeles.
弗兰·勒博维茨(Fran Lebowitz)几乎是纽约的象征，她疲倦抽烟的样子完全可以刻到纽约的徽章上。她也承认自己对洛杉矶的态度有所转变。
“L.A. is better than it used to be, New York is worse than it used to be,” Ms. Lebowitz said at a recent Vanity Fair party for the Tribeca Film Festival. The quality-of-life campaigns under Mayors Giuliani and Bloomberg swept away so much that was gritty, quirky or exceptional about the city, she said, and as a result, “New York has become vastly more suburban,” while “L.A. has become slightly less suburban.”
“洛杉矶变好了，纽约变差了，”前不久勒博维茨在翠贝卡电影节(Tribeca Film Festival)的《名利场》(Vanity Fair)派对上说。她说，纽约市长朱利亚尼(Giuliani)和布隆伯格(Bloomberg)倡导的生活品质运动清除了这座城市里很多真实、古怪或独特的东西，结果，“纽约无聊了很多”，而“洛杉矶不那么无聊了”。
This is not a trivial point. Los Angeles is widely acknowledged to have become strikingly more cosmopolitan in recent years.
这不是无关紧要的细节。人们普遍承认，近些年洛杉矶变得惊人地国际化。
The art scene, for one, has exploded. More than 50 galleries have sprouted since late 2013, reported the alternative newspaper LAWeekly, which noted that the scene is starting to fan out from Downtown and central Hollywood to new terrain like West Adams, Leimert Park and Culver City.
比如，艺术界蓬勃发展。另类报纸《洛杉矶周刊》(LAWeekly)报道称，从2013年底，洛杉矶涌现出50多家画廊。该报还指出，艺术界开始从市中心和好莱坞中心地区扩展到西亚当斯(West Adams)、雷麦特公园(Leimert Park)和卡尔弗城(Culver City)等新区域。
Ann Philbin, a former New Yorker who is the director of the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles, said that while New York remains the commercial hub for the art market, emerging artists and recent art school graduates are increasingly migrating west.
安妮·菲尔宾(Ann Philbin)之前也住在纽约，现在是洛杉矶哈默博物馆(Hammer Museum)的馆长。她说，纽约仍是艺术市场的商业中心，但是越来越多的新秀艺术家和艺术学校毕业生搬到了西部。
“Many people say that there are more creative people — visual artists, musicians, writers, filmmakers — living in Los Angeles than there are in any other city in the world, and I feel it,” Ms. Philbin said. “It’s like New York in the ’80s. There is a huge, growing community of artists here.”
“很多人说，洛杉矶的创意人才——视觉艺术家、音乐家、作家和电影制片人——比世界上任何其他城市都多，我也这么认为，”菲尔宾说，“现在的洛杉矶就像80年代的纽约。这里有一个不断壮大的、庞大的艺术家群体。”
A similar renaissance is underway in fashion. Hedi Slimane, the creative director of Saint Laurent, moved the fashion house’s studio to Los Angeles, while labels like Band of Outsiders and Rodarte spearhead a homegrown design scene.
时尚界也在经历类似的复兴。圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)的创意总监艾迪·斯里曼(Hedi Slimane)把这家时装公司的工作室搬到了洛杉矶；旁观者(Band of Outsiders)和罗达特(Rodarte)等品牌也在引领当地设计行业的发展。
The fashion A-list is turning its sights west, thanks to spectacles like Burberry’s recent runway show at the Griffith Observatory, which drew 700 guests, including Anna Wintour and Elton John.
顶级时装公司也把目光投向西部。前不久，博柏利(Burberry)在格里菲斯公园天文台(Griffith Observatory)举办时装秀。那场盛大的活动吸引了700位宾客，包括安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)和埃尔顿·约翰(Elton John)。
“Los Angeles was once just a city of jeans, but it is quickly becoming a high-fashion town,” said Joe Zee, the editor in chief of Yahoo Style, who now splits his time between the cities. “There was such a snobbery about L.A. with New Yorkers before, but that tide has really changed.”
“以前，洛杉矶曾是个牛仔裤之城，但是它很快变成了一个高端时尚之城，”雅虎时尚(Yahoo Style)的主编乔·齐(Joe Zee)说。他现在在这两个城市工作。“以前，纽约人很有点瞧不起洛杉矶，但是情况真的变了。”
Far from the red carpets and glitz, entire neighborhoods, many clustered on the city’s east side, are undergoing a much-documented haute-boho revival.
洛杉矶东部的很多街区远离红毯和聚光灯，事实证明，那里正在经历高级波西米亚复兴。
Bearded young New Yorkers can snap up brioche tarts at Proof Bakery in Atwater Village, visit gallery shows at Shepard Fairey’s Subliminal Projects in Echo Park, or settle in over barrel-aged rye cocktails at Bar Stella in Silver Lake, and scarcely realize they are more than a stroll away from McCarren Park, except for the 70-degree sunshine tickling their cheeks in February.
留着胡子的纽约年轻人可以在阿特沃特村(Atwater Village)的证据面包房(Proof Bakery)购买奶油鸡蛋卷，在回声公园(Echo Park)谢泼德·费尔雷(Shepard Fairey)的微小项目画廊(Subliminal Projects)看展览，或者在银湖(Silver Lake)的斯泰拉酒吧(Bar Stella)点一杯木桶陈酿黑麦鸡尾酒。他们会恍惚以为自己仍在纽约的麦卡伦公园(McCarren Park)附近漫步，只有当2月份70华氏度的阳光照耀在脸颊上，他们才意识到自己身在洛杉矶。
The changes are more striking in downtown Los Angeles. Long a gritty urban backwater, Downtown has become a trend factory, brimming with Beaux-Arts loft condos, galleries, groundbreaking restaurants like Baco Mercat and, inevitably, a new Ace Hotel to serve as “Portlandia” south. (GQ magazine called Downtown Los Angeles “America’s next great city” last year.)
洛杉矶市中心的变化更是惊人。市中心长期以来死气沉沉，环境不佳，如今这里成了时尚工厂，充满开放式艺术公寓、画廊、Baco Mercat等开创性餐馆，以及必然会出现的新埃斯酒店(Ace Hotel)，它被称为南方的《波特兰迪亚》（去年，《GQ》杂志称洛杉矶市中心是“美国的下一个伟大城市”）。
The buzz from all this is audible 3,000 miles east, to the point that New Yorkers’ incessant Williamsburg comparisons to Silver Lake, Highland Park, Venice Beach — or wherever — have become a wearying cliché to locals (except Aja Brown, the mayor of Compton, Calif., who has been pitching her economically challenged south-central city as “a new Brooklyn” of late.)
所有这些喧闹连3000英里外的纽约都知道了。以前纽约人总拿威廉斯堡和银湖相提并论，但是现在不管是高地公园(Highland Park)还是威尼斯海滩(Venice Beach)，都让纽约人觉得厌倦、了无新意（除了加利福尼亚州康普顿市市长阿贾·布朗[Aja Brown]。前不久她称康普顿市为“新布鲁克林”。该市位于美国中南部，目前经济遇到困难）。
No wonder a new generation of restless New Yorkers is starting to heed the Los Angeles siren call, and not just aspiring actor-waiters, as in years past.
难怪新一代不安分的纽约人开始留心洛杉矶的魅惑呼唤，而不像在过去的许多年里，只有那些满怀抱负、愿意边当服务员边寻找演戏机会的纽约人才会注意到洛杉矶的诱惑。
“New York feels like it’s all about ‘making it,’ ” said Julia Price, a musician and former Manhattanite who is in her 20s. “L.A. feels like it’s all about making things.”
“纽约好像是一个追求名利的地方”，20多岁的音乐人朱莉娅·普赖斯(Julia Price)说。她曾在曼哈顿居住。“洛杉矶则是一的可以搞创作的地方。”
In New York, she said, she was so busy working to pay the bills that she often toiled from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. as a production assistant for “Good Morning America,” then from 10 p.m. to 4 a.m. as a cocktail waitress. Los Angeles, with its slower pace and cluster of young artists, has proved to be fertile ground for her artistic ambitions.
她说，在纽约，为了付账单，她经常从早上5点至10点辛苦地担任《早安美国》(Good Morning America)的制作助理，从晚上10点到凌晨4点担任鸡尾酒服务员。而洛杉矶的节奏较慢，聚集了很多年轻艺术家，事实证明那里是实现艺术抱负的沃土。
“I couldn’t believe how collaborative everyone out here was,” Ms. Price said. “Want to shoot a music video? Just put up a Facebook message and within hours you’ll have 15 responses from incredibly talented, passionate people who want to work for free, because they believe in you and your art.”
“我简直不敢相信这里所有的人都如此协作，”普赖斯说，“想拍一个音乐视频？你在Facebook上发一条消息，几个小时里就能收到15条回复，一些非常有天赋、有激情的人愿意免费为你工作，因为他们相信你和你的艺术。”
This view of Los Angeles as a familial, welcoming city — as Moby put it, a great place to fail — is comically at odds with the traditional view. This is a town that has been grinding them up and spitting them out since Peg Entwistle, the star-crossed actress, leapt to her death off the “H” in the Hollywood (back then, “Hollywoodland”) sign in 1932, after all.
有趣的是，认为洛杉矶亲切友好的观点——或者如莫比所说，洛杉矶是个失败的好地方——与传统观念很不相同。1932年，命运不佳的女演员佩格·恩特威斯尔(Peg Entwistle)从好莱坞（当时是好莱坞庄园[Hollywoodland]）标牌的H上跳下自杀。自那以后，好莱坞一直给人的印象是折磨压榨人的地方。
But to many New York expatriates, the relatively lower cost of living alone can justify a move. As much as Angelenos (justifiably) howl about spiking real estate prices, New Yorkers still see bargains.
但是对很多从纽约搬到洛杉矶的人来说，单是这里相对较低的生活成本就值得搬来。洛杉矶人也抱怨房价飙升（这种抱怨无可非议），不过对纽约人来说，这里的房价还算便宜。
For $600 less than the $1,850 a month Ms. Turner was paying for her grim junior one-bedroom in Greenpoint, she she shares a a charming two-bedroom 1920s bungalow in Echo Park with a gated yard, cactuses, a barbecue, a separate work studio and a garage.
在纽约，特纳每月支付1850美元，只能在绿点(Greenpoint)租到一个糟糕的小一居室；而在洛杉矶，她花600美元在回声公园与人合租一个迷人的20年代两居室房子，房子有带栅门的小院、仙人掌、烤架、独立工作室和车库。
This is not to say Los Angeles is always a natural fit. The New Yorker is always going to be a nonnative species in Los Angeles, which has its own status codes, its own rhythms, its own body language.
这并不是说，洛杉矶天生在各个方面都宜居。在洛杉矶，纽约人总是外地人，这里有自己的社交礼仪、节奏和身体语言。
“There’s a major adjustment period,” said Jeff Thrope, a creative consultant (and former contributor to T Magazine) who moved from New York. “Los Angeles is definitely not New York with palm trees.” “
“有一个关键的调适阶段，”创意顾问杰夫·思罗普（Jeff Thrope，他曾是《T》杂志的撰稿人）说。他从纽约搬来。“洛杉矶绝不是有棕榈树的纽约。”
Newcomers face a catastrophic drought (a developing crisis), and endless traffic snarls (an enduring one). The latter may explain why the emerging image of Los Angeles as bohemian paradise seems to take hold mostly among those whose careers allow them to work at home in blogging, photography and freelance web design.
新来者面临灾难般的干旱（这个危机越来越严重）以及没完没了的交通堵塞（这是个长期问题）。后面这个问题也许可以解释为什么把洛杉矶视为波西米亚天堂的主要是那些可以在家工作的人，比如博主、摄影师和自由网页设计员。
“On the east side, where we live, we know maybe four or five people who work traditional 9-to-5 office jobs, out of our entire friend circle,” said Hamish Robertson, an artist and designer who lives in Los Feliz with his wife, Andi Teran, a novelist. “And if they do have them, it hasn’t come up, because people rarely ask what you do for a living or where you went to school.”
“在我们住的东区，整个朋友圈中可能只有四五个人从事的是朝九晚五的传统办公室工作，”艺术家、设计师哈米什·罗伯逊(Hamish Robertson)说。他和担任小说家的妻子安迪·特兰(Andi Teran)住在洛斯费利兹(Los Feliz)。“即使他们是从事这样的工作，也很少提及，因为人们很少相互询问职业或教育背景。”
At this point, it’s impossible to say how many New Yorkers are actually taking the plunge. The census bureau does not specifically track the migration patterns of Bushwick neo-expressionists and digital brand strategists.
目前，无法说清究竟有多少纽约人真的冒险来到洛杉矶。人口统计局不会具体追踪布什威克的新表现派和数字品牌策略家们的移居模式。
What you are left with are quasi-statistics like this: Jessa Blades, a makeup artist and beauty and wellness entrepreneur from Fort Greene, Brooklyn, decided to split her time between the cities, in part because a dozen friends had already made the move in the last 18 months, “which makes it easier to find a community,” she said.
现在我们只有这样一些准统计资料：杰萨·布莱兹(Jessa Blades)是布鲁克林格林堡的一名化妆师兼美容健康企业家。她决定在这两个城市生活，其中一个原因是在过去18个月里有十几个朋友搬到了洛杉矶。她说，“这样更容易找到一个团体。”
What is measurable is that the invading New Yorker is becoming a familiar enough archetype to inspire a backlash of sorts.
可以看见的是，外来的纽约人正成为洛杉矶人强烈反对的对象。
The popular site LAist circulated a handy map, originally created by the online magazine The Morning News, highlighting the most New Yorker-friendly neighborhoods, but adding a series of anti-New Yorker swipes. “If you happen to be from NY, and are feeling ill at ease in the vapid wasteland of Los Angeles, you can either” — well, leave, the post saltily suggested — “or figure out where you’re more likely to feel like you’re at home in NY.”
网络杂志《晨报》(The Morning News)制作了一幅简易地图，突出标出对纽约人最友好的几个社区。热门网站LAist转发了这幅地图，并标出了一系列对纽约人有敌意的区域。“如果你碰巧来自纽约，正对洛杉矶这块乏味的荒漠感到不安，你可以”——呃，离开（这个帖子尖刻地建议）——“或者找出哪些地方更可能让你感觉像在纽约一样自在。”
The LAWeekly ran a list of “The Six Types of Transplants Ruining L.A.,” topped by, of course, New Yorkers.
《洛杉矶周刊》(The LAWeekly)列举了“毁掉洛杉矶的六种外来事物”，第一条当然是纽约人。
“The only thing New Yorkers love more than talking about New York is talking about how Los Angeles isn’t New York,” the article said, detailing a familiar list of complaints (limited public transit, people too polite, bars close too early).
“除了谈论纽约，纽约人唯一更喜欢谈论的是洛杉矶为什么不如纽约，”这篇文章写道。它详细列举了纽约人对洛杉矶常有的抱怨（公共交通太差、人们太拘谨、酒吧关得太早）。
At least New Yorkers were No. 1 again.
至少纽约人又排在了第一名。