Follow one of Fire Island’s quaint footpaths away from the ferry dock, past modest cottages and better-appointed vacation homes, to an elegant modern beach house that extends across three lots. A composition in bold, unadorned planes, it has a perimeter of green and two separate entrances, each outfitted with the long ramps that are the local custom.
从火岛(Fire Island)的渡轮码头，沿着一条别致的小径，经过朴素的小屋和装修更好的度假屋，来到一栋优雅、现代的海滨别墅前，它横跨三个地块，由大胆、朴实的平面组合而成，周围有一圈绿植和两个独立的出入口，每个都配备了长长的坡道，这是当地的风俗。
Its most interesting feature, however, is not architectural, but financial. The house, which is owned by John Sexton, the president of New York University, was bought with a $600,000 loan from an N.Y.U. foundation that eventually grew to be $1 million, according to Suffolk County land records. It is one of a number of loans that N.Y.U. has made to executives and star professors for expensive vacation homes in areas like East Hampton, Fire Island and Litchfield County, Conn., in what educational experts call a bold new frontier for lavish university compensation.
但它最有趣的方面不是在建筑上，而是在资金上。这所房子的主人是纽约大学(New York University)校长约翰·塞克斯顿(John Sexton)，萨福克县土地记录显示，他在购买这座房子时用了纽约大学(New York University)一个基金会给的60万美元贷款，贷款额最终提升到了100万美元。纽约大学为管理者和著名教授在东汉普顿、火岛、康涅狄格州利奇菲尔德县等地购买昂贵的度假屋提供了大笔贷款，这是其中的一例；教育专家称这种做法为高校丰厚薪酬大胆开拓出了一片新的疆域。
N.Y.U. has already attracted attention for the multimillion-dollar loans it extends to some top executives and professors buying homes in New York City, a practice it has defended as necessary to attract talent to one of the most expensive cities on earth. Mortgage loans made to Jacob Lew, a former N.Y.U. executive vice president, part of which was eventually forgiven, became an issue during Mr. Lew’s confirmation hearings as treasury secretary earlier this year.
由于为某些高层管理者和教授提供数百万美元的贷款，让他们在纽约市购买住房，纽约大学已经引起了一些关注。对此校方已经做出辩解，称要把人才吸引到地球上物价最昂贵的城市之一，这样做是必要的。纽约大学前常务副校长雅各布·卢(Jacob Lew)获得的按揭贷款后来被部分减免，这在今年早些时候，卢出任财政部长的确认听证会上，成为了一个问题。
Universities in similar circumstances, like Columbia and Stanford, also have helped professors and executives with home loans. Assistance for vacation properties, however, are all but unheard-of in higher education, say several experts in university pay packages.
有类似环境的高校，比如哥伦比亚大学(Columbia)和斯坦福大学(Stanford)，也在帮助教授和管理者解决住房贷款问题。但是有几位高校薪酬专家说，为购买度假屋提供助资助的做法，在高等教育界是前所未闻的。
“That’s getting to be a little too sexy even for me, and I have a good sense of humor about these things,” said Stephen Joel Trachtenberg, a former president of George Washington University who has publicly defended high salaries for professors and university executives. “That is entertaining, actually. I don’t think that’s prudent. I don’t mind paying someone a robust salary, but I think you have to be able to pass a red-face test.”
“连我都觉得这也有点太离谱了，本来我对这类事情是很有幽默感的。”斯蒂芬·乔尔·特拉亨伯格(Stephen Joel Trachtenberg)说。他是乔治华盛顿大学(George Washington University)的一位前任校长，曾公开为教授和大学管理者的高工资辩护 。“其实这很有娱乐性。我觉得这么做不太谨慎。支付可观的薪酬给某人，这我不会介意，但我觉得你必须要能够通过‘红脸测试’，要能在这么做的时候毫不尴尬。”
Richard Revesz, who recently ended a decade as the dean of New York University Law School, lives with his wife, an N.Y.U. law professor, in a handsome West Village town house that was financed by N.Y.U. They also have a home on more than 65 acres near the Housatonic River in Litchfield County, also helped by an N.Y.U. loan, according to land records in both locales. According to the university’s most recently available tax return, they owe the university $5.7 million altogether.
最近卸任的理查德·雷维兹(Richard Revesz)曾担任纽约大学法学院院长10年之久，其妻也是纽约大学的一位法学教授，他们在纽约大学的资助下，购买了现在居住的一栋漂亮的纽约西村(West Village)住宅。他们还在利奇菲尔德县靠近胡萨托尼克河的一处地方有65英亩（约合26公顷）的地产和住宅，买时也用了纽约大学的贷款，两处房产在土地记录上都有显示。而该校最近的一份纳税申报单显示，他们共欠学校570万美元。
Since the late 1990s, at least five medical or law school faculty members at N.Y.U. have received loans on properties in the Hamptons or Fire Island, in addition to Dr. Sexton. Martin Dorph, an executive vice president of N.Y.U., received a $200,000 loan on a home in Bucks County, Pa., that he already owned; the university said the loan, which is forgiven over time as long as he stays with N.Y.U., was given instead of a raise.
自20世纪90年代后期以来，除了塞克斯顿博士以外，纽约大学至少为五名医学或法学院教员提供了购买汉普顿斯或火岛房屋的贷款。纽约大学常务副校长马丁·多尔夫(Martin Dorph)在宾夕法尼亚州的巴克斯县已经拥有的一处居所，也获得了20万美元的贷款；纽约大学表示，这笔贷款是用来替代加薪的，只要他继续在该校工作，这笔贷款就会随着时间的推移被减免。
“All of these transactions you’re asking about come back to a common goal: recruiting and retaining talented people to sustain the momentum that’s transformed N.Y.U. over the last three decades — from a decent regional university to a widely admired global research university — and doing so in the most expensive real estate market in the country,” John H. Beckman, the university spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“你问及的所有这些交易，最终都是为了一个共同的目标服务：招揽和留住人才，保持过去30年中让纽约大学脱胎换骨的趋势 —— 纽约大学从一所区域性的大学，变成了受到广泛尊敬的全球性研究型大学—— 而且是在全美最昂贵的房地产市场做到这一点。”该校发言人约翰·H·贝克曼(John H. Beckman)在一封电子邮件中说。
He said that only a small fraction of the more than 100 loans given by N.Y.U. (some of which were made by New York University itself and others by related foundations) were for second homes. He declined to comment on the terms of most of those loans, like interest rates and any provisions for forgiveness, citing the privacy of the parties.
他说，纽约大学提供的100多项贷款（其中一些由纽约大学自己提供，其他则由相关的基金会提供）中，只有一小部分是二套房贷款。对于大部分这种贷款的条款，比如利率和减免条件等，他拒绝发表评论，称这是当事人的隐私。
In Dr. Sexton’s 11 years as president, N.Y.U. has raised its profile, expanded to campuses around the world and won approval for a major expansion in its home base, Greenwich Village. It has done so in part through aggressive spending and fund-raising.
在塞克斯顿担任教授的11年里，纽约大学已经提高待遇，把贷款项目扩张到学校在全球的其他校区，并批准了该校在格林威治村大本营的一个重要的贷款扩张项目。能做到这一点，跟大手笔的支出和筹款活动有一定关系。
The rapid change has won Dr. Sexton many admirers, both at N.Y.U. and throughout higher education. The board of trustees has raised his salary to nearly $1.5 million, with a $2.5 million “length of service” bonus to come in 2015, and has guaranteed him retirement benefits of $800,000 a year. The university also provides him an apartment by Washington Square.
这种快速的转变已为塞克斯顿赢得了许多崇拜者，不只在纽约大学，整个高等教育界都有他的拥趸。董事会把他的工资涨到了近150万美元，2015年还将给予他250万美元的“工龄”奖金，并已向他保证，他将获得每年80万美元的退休福利。学校还给他提供了一间公寓，地点在华盛顿广场。
But many faculty members have bristled at both his pay package and what they consider a top-down management style more fit for a corporation than a university. The faculties of five N.Y.U. schools have passed votes of no confidence in him this year. (The law school voted to support Dr. Sexton.)
不过，许多教职工都对他的工资待遇和他独揽大权的管理方式感到恼火，他们认为，他的管理方式更适合公司，而不是大学。今年，纽约大学五所学院的教职工已经通过了对他的不信任投票（法学院投票支持塞克斯顿）。
Dr. Sexton declined to comment for this article, but in a March interview he said:  “Faculty housing loans on which interest is paid and appreciation is enjoyed by the university actually produce additional revenue. They’re probably the best-performing parts of our portfolio, so as to reduce the amount of tuition that we require.”
塞克斯顿拒绝就本文发表评论，不过，在今年3月的一次采访中，他说：“教员住房贷款是支付利息的，大学会享有贷款带来的增值效益，实际上是产生了收益。它们可能是我们的投资组合里表现最好的一部分了，因此对我们降低学费标准的帮助也最大。”
Laura Kalick, an expert in tax law at the accounting firm BDO who specializes in nonprofit organizations, said loans of this type do not violate any specific rules about compensation, so long as they are properly reported, go through the appropriate channels for oversight and approval, and are deemed reasonable.
德豪会计师事务所(BDO)专事非营利组织税法研究的专家劳拉·卡里克(Laura Kalick)说，此类贷款不违反任何具体的薪酬规定，前提是它们经由相称的监督和审批渠道批准、被认定合理，并恰当地予以申报。
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, raised the issue of Mr. Lew’s loans during hearings over his confirmation, which was approved; since then, the senator, who is a member of the Finance Committee, has asked N.Y.U. for more records of compensation and loans to executives and employees. He noted N.Y.U.’s nonprofit status, which generally exempts it from income and property taxes.
艾奥瓦州共和党参议员查尔斯·E·格拉斯利(Charles E. Grassley)在雅各布·卢的任职确认听证会提出了他的贷款问题，他的任职最终是获得了批准的；自那以后，身为参议院财政委员会(Finance Committee)成员的格拉斯利已向纽约大学索要了更多的薪酬和贷款记录，这些记录的对象是学校管理者和雇员。他注意到，纽约大学的非营利性质令它基本上无需缴纳所得税和物业税。
“Universities are tax-exempt to educate students, not help their executives purchase vacation homes,” he said in an interview on Monday. “It’s hard to see how the student with a lifetime of debt benefits from his university leaders’ weekend homes in the Hamptons.”
他在本周一的一次采访中说，“给大学免税是为了教育学生，不是为了帮助大学的管理者购买度假屋。我看不出，终生负债累累的学生们，怎样从大学领导们位于汉普顿斯的周末度假屋中获益。”