Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo ordered emergency measures on Sunday to combat the wage theft and health hazards faced by the thousands of people who work in New York State’s nail salon industry.
纽约州州长安德鲁·M·科莫(Andrew M. Cuomo)周日下令采取紧急措施，解决数千名纽约州美甲行业工人的工资盗窃及其所面临的健康危害问题。
Effective immediately, he said in a statement, a new, multiagency task force will conduct salon-by-salon investigations, institute new rules that salons must follow to protect manicurists from the potentially dangerous chemicals found in nail products, and begin a six-language education campaign to inform them of their rights.
他在一份声明中说，紧急措施立即生效，将由一个新成立的多部门工作组对美甲沙龙挨家进行调查，并将制定美甲沙龙必须遵循的新规则，以保护美甲工不受美甲产品中存在的可能危险化学品的危害，还将用六种语言开始一场教育活动，让美甲工知道她们的权利。
Nail salons that do not comply with orders to pay workers back wages, or are unlicensed, will be shut down. The new rules come in response to a New York Times investigation of nail salons — first published online last week — that detailed the widespread exploitation of manicurists, many of whom have illnesses that some scientists and health advocates say are caused by the chemicals with which they work.
对要求支付所欠工人薪金的命令拒不执行、或无证经营的美甲沙龙将被关闭。新规则是对《纽约时报》调查美甲沙龙报道的响应，报道于上周在网上首先发表，详细描述了美甲工被普遍剥削的情况，她们中有多人患上疾病，一些科学家和健康倡导者认为，这些疾病是由她们工作中使用的化学物质引起的。
“New York State has a long history of confronting wage theft and unfair labor practices head on, and today, with the formation of this new Enforcement Task Force, we are aggressively following in that tradition,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. “We will not stand idly by as workers are deprived of their hard-earned wages and robbed of their most basic rights.”
“纽约州有与工资盗窃以及不公平的劳工做法迎头抗击的悠久历史，今天，通过这个新执法工作队的组建，我们正在积极地继承这一传统，”库莫在一份声明中说。“对工人被剥夺了她们辛勤挣来的工资以及最基本权利的问题，我们不会袖手旁观。”
The swiftly assembled plans, while still taking shape, are the start of an effort to reshape an industry that has been a major entry point for immigrants into the city’s economy, but in which exploiting the people who toil over hands and feet appears to be, in many instances, simply the way business is done.
这些迅速推出的计划，尽管仍在逐步形成中，乃是重塑一个行业的开端。该行业一直是移民融入纽约经济的一个重要切入点，但存在着剥削为他人的手和脚辛勤劳动的人的问题，这种问题在许多情况下似乎简直就是行业的潜规则。
Salons will be required to publicly post signs that inform workers of their rights, including the fact that it is illegal to work without wages or to pay money for a job — a common practice in the nail salon industry, according to workers and owners. The signs will be in half a dozen languages, including those most spoken in the industry — Korean, Chinese and Spanish.
美甲沙龙将被要求公开张贴海报，告知工人她们的权利，包括不拿工资工作、或交钱获得一份工作属于非法行为的事实，据工人和业主说，为获得工作交钱是美甲沙龙行业的普遍做法。这些海报将用6种语言印制，包括行业中最常见的语言：韩文、中文和西班牙文。
The emergency measures announced on Sunday will become permanent in the coming months, the governor’s office said.
州长办公室说，周日宣布的紧急措施将在未来数月内成为永久性的。
Under new rules, manicurists must wear gloves to reduce the risks of contracting skin conditions, such as fungal infections and warts, and developing burns from handling chemicals.
根据新的规定，美甲师必须戴手套，以减少感染皮肤病、比如真菌感染和疣的机会，以及减少与化学品打交道所带来的灼伤风险。
The plan currently will also require masks, though occupational health experts say the hospital-style masks that manicurists sometimes wear give only the appearance of safety. Such masks do almost nothing to prevent exposure to chemicals, such as dibutyl phthalate, toluene and formaldehyde, that are used in nail products and have been linked to leukemia and fetal defects. And salons will be required to be ventilated, to reduce the chemical fumes.
目前推出的措施还要求工人戴口罩，虽然职业卫生专家说，美甲工有时戴的医用口罩只不过看似带来了安全而已。这种口罩对防止接触化学物质几乎毫无作用，美甲产品中使用的化学物质，如邻苯二甲酸二丁酯、甲苯和甲醛已被发现与白血病和胎儿缺陷有关。美甲沙龙将被要求使用通风设备，以减少化学挥发物。
The state’s Health Department, one of the agencies in the task force, will conduct a study of the most effective safety practices, and the eventual rules put in place may change in scope depending upon the findings.
纽约州卫生署是参加工作组的部门之一，卫生署将展开有关最有效的安全实践的研究，在研究结果的基础上，最终制定的规则范围可能会有所改变。
Salons will now be required to be bonded — which is intended to ensure, through a contract with a bonding agency, that workers can eventually be paid if salon owners are found to have underpaid the workers. The move is an attempt to counteract the phenomenon of salon owners’ hiding assets when they are found guilty of wage theft.
美甲沙龙目前将被要求做出法律承诺，就是用通过与有关机构签订合同的方式确保，一旦沙龙业主被发现克扣了工人的工资，工人最终能得到欠款。此举是为了防止美甲沙龙老板在被发现犯有盗窃工资罪时，企图隐藏资产的现象。
Many workers are undocumented and fear exposing themselves to the authorities, so they rarely speak up. The agencies involved in the task force do not inquire about workers’ immigration status as part of their investigations, the governor’s office said. An education campaign will also be introduced through community groups to inform workers they have the right be compensated fully, regardless of their immigration status, and encourage them to report mistreatment.
许多美甲工都没有合法身份，她们怕把自己暴露给有关当局，所以她们几乎从不抱怨。州长办公室说，参与工作组的机构将不打听工人的移民身份，不将身份问题作为他们调查的一部分。还将通过社区团体展开一场教育宣传活动，让工人知道她们有权利得到充分的报酬，不管自己的移民身份如何，并鼓励她们举报虐待。
The framework for the emergency measures began to take shape shortly after the first article was published on Thursday, according to Alphonso B. David, counsel for the governor. Staff members from several agencies reacted strongly, and began to call one another upon reading the findings, convening on Friday for hours of brainstorming sessions to hash out the plan. A decision was made to take emergency measures rather than go through the usual route by which policies are updated, which involve time-consuming steps like periods of public comment, Mr. David said.
据州长的法律代表阿方索·B·戴维(Alphonso B. David)说，应急措施的框架在上周四的第一篇文章发表后不久开始形成。多个部门的工作人员对报道反应强烈，他们在读了调查后，开始给彼此打电话，并在上周五为制定上述计划开了一个集思广益会。他们作出采取紧急措施的决定，而不是走更新政策的通常渠道，因为通常的做法涉及比如公众意见征询期等耗时的步骤，戴维说。
“The article highlighted a significant problem in New York State,” Mr. David said. “We cannot wait to address the problem.”
“时报的报道凸现了纽约州的一个显著问题，”戴维说。“这个问题的解决不能等待。”