The women begin to arrive just before 8 a.m., every day and without fail, until there are thickets of young Asian and Hispanic women on nearly every street corner along the main roads of Flushing, Queens.
早上快到8点时，这些女性开始陆续抵达皇后区法拉盛的主要道路上，直到沿途每一个街角都有一群群亚裔和西语裔的年轻女性。每天如此，风雨无阻。
As if on cue, cavalcades of battered Ford Econoline vans grumble to the curbs, and the women jump in. It is the start of another workday for legions of New York City’s manicurists, who are hurtled to nail salons across three states. They will not return until late at night, after working 10- to 12-hour shifts, hunched over fingers and toes.
仿佛是安排好的一样，一辆辆福特伊克莱(Ford Econoline)箱式货车纷纷停到路边，让女子们跳上车。就这样，纽约市的美甲师们又开始了一天的工作。她们要前往三个州的美甲沙龙，直到深夜才会回来。每个班次长达10到12小时，她们要弓着腰，在客人的手指和脚趾上工作。
On a morning last May, Jing Ren, a 20-year-old who had recently arrived from China, stood among them for the first time, headed to a job at a salon in a Long Island strip mall. Her hair neat and glasses perpetually askew, she clutched her lunch and a packet of nail tools that manicurists must bring from job to job.
去年5月的一天早晨，一位名叫任静（音）的20岁女孩站在她们中间，第一次前往长岛某沿街商业区的一个沙龙里工作。任静刚从中国抵达这里不久，她头发整齐，眼镜总是有点歪歪斜斜，她带着午餐和一包美甲工具。在为一个又一个客人服务时，美甲师必须自带工具。
Tucked in her pocket was $100 in carefully folded bills for another expense: the fee the salon owner charges each new employee for her job. The deal was the same as it is for beginning manicurists in almost any salon in the New York area. She would work for no wages, subsisting on meager tips, until her boss decided she was skillful enough to merit a wage.
她的口袋里，揣着小心叠起来的100美元（约合620元人民币），这是她需要支付的另一笔钱：沙龙老板向每个新员工收取的费用。在纽约地区，几乎所有的美容沙龙对新手美甲师都是这样。任静的工作没有薪水，只能靠微薄的小费维生，直到老板觉得她的技术足够纯熟，值得付薪水为止。
It would take nearly three months before her boss paid her. Thirty dollars a day.
大约要经过三个月的时间，老板才会开始发薪水——每天30美元。
Once an indulgence reserved for special occasions, manicures have become a grooming staple for women across the economic spectrum. There are now more than 17,000 nail salons in the United States, according to census data. The number of salons in New York City alone has more than tripled over a decade and a half to nearly 2,000 in 2012.
美甲曾经是种奢侈享受，人们只有在为特殊场合做准备时才会去做美甲。但如今，对经济水平各异的女性来说，这都已经成为了一种日常美容项目。普查数据显示，现在美国分布着超过1.7万家美甲沙龙。仅仅在纽约市，美甲沙龙在过去15年的时间里，就增加了两倍以上，在2012年达到近2000家。
But largely overlooked is the rampant exploitation of those who toil in the industry. The New York Times interviewed more than 150 nail salon workers and owners, in four languages, and found that a vast majority of workers are paid below minimum wage; sometimes they are not even paid. Workers endure all manner of humiliation, including having their tips docked as punishment for minor transgressions, constant video monitoring by owners, even physical abuse. Employers are rarely punished for labor and other violations.
但是，在美甲行业中摸爬滚打的人遭到了严重的盘剥，这在很大程度上被人们所忽视。时报采访了说四种语言的150多名美甲沙龙工人和老板，发现绝大多数工人的工资低于最低工资标准；有时候甚至没有工资。工人忍受着各种屈辱，比如她们如果有轻微的违规行为，就会导致小费被克扣，老板会一直对她们进行视频监控，甚至还会进行体罚。违反劳动法规和其他法规的雇主极少被惩罚。
Asian-language newspapers are rife with classified ads listing manicurist jobs paying so little the daily wage can at first glance appear to be a typo. Ads in Chinese in both Sing Tao Daily and World Journal for NYC Nail Spa, a second-story salon on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, advertised a starting wage of $10 a day. The rate was confirmed by several workers.
亚洲语言的报纸上充斥着招聘美甲师的广告，薪水如此之低，乍一看还以为是打印出了错。“纽约指甲养护馆”(NYC Nail Spa)是曼哈顿上西城一家位于二楼的美甲沙龙，在《星岛日报》和《世界日报》上都做了的中文广告中，它的美甲师起薪是每天10美元。这个数字得到了几名工人的证实。
Lawsuits filed in New York courts allege a long list of abuses: the salon in East Northport, N.Y., where workers said they were paid just $1.50 an hour during a 66-hour workweek; the Harlem salon that manicurists said charged them for drinking the water, yet on slow days paid them nothing at all; the minichain of Long Island salons whose workers said they were not only underpaid but also kicked as they sat on pedicure stools, and verbally abused.
在提交纽约法院的一些诉状中，检方指控了一长串虐待行为：纽约东北港美容沙龙的工人说，他们一周工作66小时，时薪仅为1.5美元；哈林区一家沙龙的美甲师说，她们就连喝水都要被扣钱，如果生意不好，甚至会完全没有收入；长岛的小型连锁美甲沙龙的工人表示，她们不仅工资过低，而且如果坐在了客人的修脚凳上，她们就会挨踢，还会遭到辱骂。
Last year, the New York State Labor Department, in conjunction with several other agencies, conducted its first nail salon sweep ever — about a month after The Times sent officials there an inquiry regarding their enforcement record with the industry. Investigators inspected 29 salons and found 116 wage violations.
去年，纽约州劳工局(New York State Labor Department)与其他几家机构合作，开展了对美甲沙龙的首次大清查——调查人员检查了29个沙龙，发现了116起工资违法行为。行动开始之前一个月，时报曾向官员们询问了他们对该行业的执法记录。
Among the more than 100 workers interviewed by The Times, only about a quarter said they were paid an amount that was the equivalent of New York State’s minimum hourly wage. All but three workers, however, had wages withheld in other ways that would be considered illegal, such as never getting overtime.
在时报采访过的100多名工人中，只有约四分之一的人透露，她们的报酬达到了纽约州最低时薪标准。但除了三人之外，其他人的薪水都被以不合法的方式克扣了，比如从来没有收到过加班费。
The juxtapositions in nail salon workers’ lives can be jarring. Many spend their days holding hands with women of unimaginable affluence, at salons on Madison Avenue and in Greenwich, Conn. Away from the manicure tables they crash in flophouses packed with bunk beds, or in fetid apartments shared by as many as a dozen strangers.
美甲沙龙工人的生活中有着极大的落差。在麦迪逊大道或者康涅狄格州格林尼治的沙龙里，很多工人终日握着富有女人的手。而远离美甲桌的时候，她们要住在摆满了双层床的廉价住所里，或者和多达十几个陌生人一起群居在气味难闻的公寓里。
Ms. Ren worked at Bee Nails, a chandelier-spangled salon in Hicksville, N.Y., where leather pedicure chairs are equipped with iPads on articulated arms so patrons can scroll the screens without smudging their manicures. They rarely spoke more than a few words to Ms. Ren, who, like most manicurists, wore a fake name chosen by a supervisor on a tag pinned to her chest. She was “Sherry.” She worked in silence, sloughing off calluses from customers’ feet or clipping dead skin from around their fingernail beds.
任静在纽约希克斯维尔的蜜蜂美甲沙龙(Bee Nails)打工，那里有璀璨的吊灯，真皮修脚椅都配备了一条伸缩臂，上面安装着iPad，顾客可以滚动屏幕而不必弄污美甲。她们对任静只有寥寥数语，而像大多数美甲师一样，任静胸前的标牌上也是主管选的一个假名，她的叫“谢丽”(Sherry)。任静在沉默中工作，削去客户的脚上的老茧，或修去指甲边的死皮。
At night she returned to sleep jammed in a one-bedroom apartment in Flushing with her cousin, her cousin’s father and three strangers. Beds crowded the living room, each cordoned off by shower curtains hung from the ceiling. When lights flicked on in the kitchen, cockroaches skittered across the countertops.
晚上，她回到法拉盛的一居室公寓里睡觉。她和表姐，表姐的父亲，以及三个陌生人共同居住在这里。客厅里也摆满了床，由挂在天花板上浴帘分隔开。厨房里的灯打开时，整个台面上都是飞跑的蟑螂。
Almost all of the workers interviewed by The Times, like Ms. Ren, had limited English; many are in the country illegally. The combination leaves them vulnerable.
时报采访的几乎所有美甲工人都像任静一样，英语水平很有限；很多都是在美国非法居留的。这都让她们很容易受到威胁。
Some workers suffer more acutely. Nail salons are governed by their own rituals and mores, a hidden world behind the glass exteriors and cute corner shops. In it, a rigid racial and ethnic caste system reigns in modern-day New York City, dictating not only pay but also how workers are treated.
有些工人的遭遇更加凄惨。在美甲沙龙的玻璃外墙和可爱的街角小店背后，隐藏着另一个世界，它有自己的习俗和道德观。就在纽约市，森严的族群等级体系统治着这个小世界，它也决定了薪水以及工人的处境。
Korean workers routinely earn twice as much as their peers, valued above others by the Korean owners who dominate the industry and who are often shockingly plain-spoken in their disparagement of workers of other backgrounds. Chinese workers occupy the next rung in the hierarchy; Hispanics and other non-Asians are at the bottom.
韩裔工人的薪水常常是其他工人的两倍，因为她们受到了老板的器重。韩裔老板主导着美甲产业，而且老板们会对其他背景的工人极其露骨地表达蔑视。华裔工人在等级结构中占据了下一个梯级，西语裔和其他非亚裔工人则位于最底层。
The typical cost of a manicure in the city helps explain the abysmal pay. A survey of more than 105 Manhattan salons by The Times found an average price of about $10.50. The countrywide average is almost double that, according to a 2014 survey by Nails Magazine, an industry publication.
纽约做美甲的通常收费，有助于解释工人的工资为什么这么低。时报对105家曼哈顿沙龙进行的一项调查发现，美甲的平均收费约为10.50美元。而行业刊物《美甲杂志》(Nails Magazine)2014年开展的一项调查显示，全美国的平均收费几乎比这高出一倍。
With fees so low, someone must inevitably pay the price.
收费这么低，必然有一些人为此遭受损失。
“You can be assured, if you go to a place with rock-bottom prices, that chances are the workers wages’ are being stolen,” said Nicole Hallett, a lecturer at Yale Law School who has worked on wage theft cases in salons. “The costs are borne by the low-wage workers who are doing your nails.”
“我敢向你保证，如果一个地方价格低到不能再低，那里工人的工资很可能是被偷走了，”耶鲁大学法学院(Yale Law School)讲师妮可·哈利特(Nicole Hallett)说。她曾接触过一些美甲沙龙克扣工资的案件。“成本是那些为你做美甲的低薪工人在承担。”
In interviews, some owners readily acknowledged how little they paid their workers. Ms. Ren’s boss, Lian Sheng Sun, who goes by Howard, at first denied doing anything wrong, but then said it was just how business was done. “Salons have different ways of conducting their business,” he said. “We run our business our own way to keep our small business surviving.”
在采访中，一些老板直言不讳地承认，他们给工人的薪水非常之少。任静的老板孙连胜（音）又名霍华德(Howard)，起初他表示自己没有任何过失，但后来他说，这一行就是这样做的。“美甲沙龙做生意的方式不一样，”他说。“我们要按自己的方式做生意，才能让小生意维持下去。”
Many owners said they were helping new immigrants by giving them jobs.
不少老板表示，他们给新移民提供工作机会是在帮她们。
“I want to change the first generation coming here and getting disgraced, and getting humiliated,” said Roger Liu, 28, an immigrant from China, seated inside the salon he owned, Relaxing Town Nails and Spa in Huntington Station, N.Y. As he spoke last summer, an employee, a woman in her 50s, paced the salon, studying a scrap of paper scribbled with the steps of a pedicure, chanting them to herself quietly in Chinese.
“我想改变第一代移民来到这里受到贬低、受到羞辱的局面，”28岁的罗杰·刘(Roger Liu)去年夏天说。他是来自中国的移民，有一家位于亨廷顿站的美甲沙龙，名为“惬意美甲养护馆”(Relaxing Town Nails and Spa)。当时有个员工，一名50多岁的女人，在沙龙里走来走去，学习几张纸上写着的修脚步骤，用中文反复低声念诵。
It was her first week working in a salon, she said. Mr. Liu was not paying her.
这是她在沙龙工作的第一周，她说。刘先生没有付她薪水。
Compelled to work endless hours just to get by, the manicurists live lives that unspool almost entirely within the walls of their salons. An underground economy has sprung up in Flushing and other city neighborhoods where salon workers live, to help them cope. On weekdays, women walk from door to door like Pied Pipers, taking nail salon workers’ children to school for a fee. Many manicurists pay caregivers as much as half their wages to take their babies six days a week, 24 hours a day, after finding themselves unable to care for them at night and still wake up to paint nails.
为了过日子，这些美甲师不得不一小时接一小时地工作，她们的生活几乎完全被局限在沙龙的四壁之内。在法拉盛等沙龙工人居住的街区，帮助她们应付生活的地下经济也兴旺地发展起来。工作日里，一些女人会挨家挨户地上门，带美甲师的孩子去上学，并收取一点费用。很多美甲师要花一半的工资，让保育人员每周六天，每天24小时带孩子，因为她们无法晚上照顾孩子，早上又要起来去美甲店工作。
Jing Ren usually spent days sleeping in her slim pallet a few feet from the bed of her 24-year-old cousin, Xue Sun, also a manicurist. She had no time to make other friends.
任静平日里就是在自己狭窄的床上睡觉，她24岁的表姐也是一个美甲师，名叫孙雪（音）。两人的床只相隔几英尺。任静没有时间交其他的朋友。
She eventually started taking English classes, hoping to grasp onto a new life, but she feared the gravitational pull of this one.
她终于开始上英语课了，希望能由此开始新生活，但她担心现在的生活是一个沉重的拖累。
“I would feel petrified,” she said, “thinking that I’ll be doing this for the rest of my life.”
“想到这辈子就要干这个，我就吓坏了，”她说。
Low Prices, Low Pay
低价格，低工资
As far as small businesses go, it is relatively easy to open a nail salon.
如果是做小生意，开一家美甲沙龙相对是比较容易的。
Just a few thousand dollars is needed for things like pedicure chairs with whirlpool baths. Little English is required, and there are few licensing hoops to jump through. Many skip them altogether. Overhead is minimal: rent and some new bottles of polish each month — and the rock-bottom wages of workers.
购买带足浴盆的修脚椅只需要几千美元。不需要懂多少英语，办理许可证的步骤很容易，很多人干脆不申请许可证。经营开销很小：房租，每月采购一些瓶装的指甲油——还有就是极低的工人工资支出了。
Beyond the low barriers for entry, manicurists, owners and others who have closely followed the nail industry are hard pressed to say definitively why salons have proliferated.
除了进入门槛低之外，美甲师、老板和密切关注美甲行业的其他人，也都说不清楚为什么美甲店会激增。
In the 1990s, nail polish brands began to market more directly to consumers, helping to fuel demand, according to Nails Magazine. Polishes also became more sophisticated; they last longer and are easier to remove.
据《美甲杂志》介绍，上世纪90年代，指甲油品牌开始更直接地面向消费者推销，帮助刺激了需求。指甲油也变得更复杂，存留时间更长，更容易去除。
Census data show the number of salons in New York surged through the 2000s, far outstripping the rest of the country. Growth dimmed slightly during the recession, as lacquered nails remained an affordable treat for many, before climbing again.
人口普查数据显示，2000年代纽约的美甲沙龙激增，速度远超全国其他地方。经济衰退期间，增速只是稍有下降，后来又再次攀升，因为对很多人来说，涂个指甲款待自己一下，还是负担得起的。
But as nail salons have mushroomed, it has become harder to turn a profit, some owners said. Manicure prices have not budged much from 1990s levels, according to veteran workers. Neither have wages.
但一些老板称，随着美甲沙龙如雨后春笋般地冒出来，赢利难度加大。据资深工作人员介绍，和上世纪90年代的水平相比，美甲价格并未变化太多。工资也一样。
With their gleaming glass fronts, the salons seem to display their inner workings as transparently as a department store displays a holiday window. But much of how salons operate and how workers are treated is kept deliberately opaque to the outside world.
美甲沙龙都装着闪闪发光的落地玻璃前脸，似乎像百货商店的节日展示橱窗那样，清晰地展示了里面的情况。但对外部世界而言，有关美甲沙龙的运作方式以及员工待遇的很多东西，都被故意遮盖起来了。
Among the hidden customs are how new manicurists get started. Most must hand over cash — usually $100 to $200, but sometimes much more — as a training fee. Weeks or months of work in a kind of unpaid apprenticeship follows.
被隐藏起来的惯例包括新入行的美甲师是如何起步的。大部分人都必须交纳现金作为培训费，通常是100到200美元，但有时也会非常高昂。接下来，他们会以一种学徒的身份，无偿工作数周或数月。
Ms. Ren spent almost three months painting on pedicures and slathering feet with paraffin wax before one afternoon in the late summer when her boss drew her into a waxing room and told her she would finally be paid.
在近三个月的时间里，任静都在给顾客涂脚趾甲和上脚蜡。直到夏末的一个下午，老板将她拉进一间除毛间里，对她说要给她开工资了。
“I just burst into laughter unconsciously,” Ms. Ren said. “I have been working for so long while making zero money; now finally my hard work paid off.”
“我不自觉地笑了起来，”任静说。“这么长时间以来，我一直在工作却一分钱都没赚到；现在我的努力工作终于有了回报。”
That night her cousins threw her a party. The next payday she learned her day wage would amount to under $3 an hour.
当晚，她的同辈亲戚为她举行了聚会。此后的那个发薪日，她得知自己每天的工资相当于一小时不到3美元。
Step into the prim confines of almost any salon and workers paid astonishingly low wages can be readily found. At May’s Nails Salon on 14th Street in the West Village of Manhattan, where a photo of the singer Gwen Stefani with a manicurist hung on the wall, new employees must pay $100, then work unpaid for several weeks, before they are started at $30 or $40 a day, according to a worker. A man who identified himself as the owner but would only give his name only as Greg, said the salon did not charge employees for their jobs but would not say how much they are paid. 
走进几乎任何一家沙龙的整洁隔间里，很容易就能找到工资低得惊人的员工。在曼哈顿西村14街的小梅美甲店(May's Nails Salon)，可以看到墙上挂着歌手格温·瑞妮·史蒂芬妮和一位美甲师的合影。这里的一个员工说，新员工要先交100美元，接下来的几周还没有工钱。一个自称老板的男人说，他们不要求员工交钱，但拒绝透露员工工资。这个人只说自己名叫格雷格(Greg)。
At Sona Nails on First Avenue near Stuyvesant Town, a worker said she made $35 a day. Sona Grung, the owner of Sona Nails, denied paying below minimum wage, yet defended the practice, particularly of underpaying new workers. “When a beginner comes in, they don’t know anything, and they give you a job,” she said. “If you work in a nail salon for $35, it’s very good.”
而在斯图文森镇附近的第一大道上的索娜美甲店(Sona Nails)，一名员工说她一天的工资是35美元。索娜美甲店的老板索娜·格龙(Sona Grung)否认开的工资低于最低工资，但却为这种做法，尤其是给新人较低的报酬进行了辩护。“新手来的时候，什么都不知道，他们给了你工作，”她说。“如果你在美甲沙龙的工资是35美元，就非常好了。”
Nail salon workers are generally considered “tipped workers” under state and federal labor laws. Employers in New York are permitted to pay such workers slightly less than the state’s $8.75 minimum hourly wage, based on a complex calculation of how much a worker is making in tips. But interviews with scores of workers revealed rates of pay so low that the so-called tip calculation is virtually meaningless. None reported receiving supplemental pay from their bosses, as is legally required when their day’s tips fall short of the minimum wage. Overtime pay is almost unheard-of in the industry,even though workers routinely work up to 12 hours a day, six or even seven days a week.
按照州和联邦劳动法，美甲沙龙的员工普遍被当做“拿小费员工”。根据对员工小费收入的复杂计算，纽约的雇主开给这类员工的工资，可以略少于该州8.75美元的时薪。但对数十名员工进行的采访显示，单位时间的工资如此之低，以至于所谓的小费计算几乎毫无意义。没有一个人反映在一天的小费收入低于最低工资时，像法律要求的那样得到过老板提供的补充收入。在这一行，加班费更是几乎闻所未闻，即使这些工人们通常每天工作多达12个小时，一周工作六天甚至七天。
Inside the hive of the salon, there are typically three ranks of workers. “Big Job” employees are veterans, experts at sculpting false nails out of acrylic dust. It is the most lucrative salon job, yet many younger manicurists avoid it because of the specter of serious health issues including miscarriages and cancer, associated with inhaling fumes and clouds of plastic particles. “Medium Job” workers do regular manicures, while “Little Job” is the category of the beginners. They launder hot hand towels and sweep toenail clippings. They do work others do not want to do, such as pedicures.
在忙碌的沙龙内部，员工通常被分成三个等级。“大工”是老手，是能用丙烯酸颜料雕刻出假指甲的专家。这是沙龙里最赚钱的工作，但很多更年轻的美甲师会避免这种工作，因为吸入有害气体和塑料颗粒组成的尘雾会导致包括流产和癌症在内的严重的健康问题。“中工”的工作是常规的指甲护理，而“小工”就是初学者。他们的工作是清洗热手巾和清理剪下的脚趾甲。他们还要干其他人不愿干的活，比如修脚。
More experienced workers usually earn $50 to $70 per day, sometimes even $80. Their pay, though, still typically amounts to significantly less than minimum wage, given their long hours.
经验更丰富的员工一天的收入通常是50到70美元，有时候甚至会达到80美元。然而，考虑到工作时间很长，他们的工资算下来往往依然明显低于最低工资。
In the poorer pockets of the city, at low-traffic salons in the Bronx and Queens, many workers are not paid a base wage at all, only a commission.
在纽约更贫困的地区，如布朗克斯和皇后区那些人流量较低的沙龙里，很多员工根本没有基本工资，只有佣金。
Nora Cacho was paid about 50 percent of the price of every manicure or lip wax she did at a Harlem shop that was part of a chain, Envy Nails. She frequently earned about $200 for each 66-hour workweek — about $3 an hour. In sandal season, if she was lucky, she left the shop with slightly more — $300 each week, she said. On snowy days, Ms. Cacho, who is part of a class-action lawsuit against the chain would return home with nothing. The chain’s lawyer did not respond to requests for comment.
在哈莱姆区的一家艳羡美甲(Envy Nails)连锁店里，诺拉·卡乔(Nora Cacho)的工资是她每做一次美甲或唇部除毛服务价格的一半。她一周工作66小时，收入通常约为200美元，大致相当于每小时3美元。她说，在穿凉鞋的季节，如果走运的话，她每周从美甲店拿到的工资会略微超过300美元。而在下雪天，卡乔回家时可能会身无分文。眼下，卡乔参加了针对该连锁提起的集体诉讼。艳羡美甲连锁店的律师没有回复置评请求。
Ms. Cacho, who is from Ecuador, initially saw the industry as her financial salvation, as do many other immigrants. But what seems a way up usually gives way to a grinding existence.
和其他很多移民一样，来自厄瓜多尔的卡乔最初以为这个行业能让她脱贫致富。但看似光明的前景，通常会让位给勉强度日。
Salon workers describe a culture of subservience that extends far beyond the pampering of customers. Tips or wages are often skimmed or never delivered, or deducted as punishment for things like spilled bottles of polish. At her Harlem salon, Ms. Cacho said she and her colleagues had to buy new clothes in whatever color the manager decided was fashionable that week. Cameras are regularly hidden in salons, piping live feeds directly to owners’ smartphones and tablets.
沙龙工作人员描述了一种顺从文化，这种顺从远不止对顾客的奉迎。小费或工资常被侵占或从不发放，又或者被克扣，以作为对打翻了指甲油瓶这种事情的惩罚。卡乔说，在哈莱姆那家沙龙，她和同事必须买新衣服，颜色则是经理所断定的一周的流行色。沙龙里经常藏着摄像头，将现场拍摄到的内容直接传到老板的智能手机和平板电脑上。
Qing Lin, 47, a manicurist who has worked on the Upper East Side for the last 10 years, still gets emotional when recounting the time a splash of nail polish remover marred a customer’s patent Prada sandals. When the woman demanded compensation, the $270 her boss pressed into the woman’s hand came out of the manicurist’s pay. Ms. Lin was asked not to return.
过去10年里，47岁的美甲师林青（音）一直在上东街上班。说到一点洗甲水弄坏了一位顾客的高档普拉达(Prada)凉鞋那次，她依然情绪激动。当那名女子要求赔偿时，她的老板给那人手里塞了270美元，那笔钱是从她工资里扣的。老板让她不要回去上班了。
“I am worth less than a shoe,” she said.
“我连一只鞋都不如，”她说。
An Ethnic Caste System
按种族划分三六九等
As the throngs of manicurists gather in Flushing, Queens, every morning, the patter of “good mornings” is mostly in Chinese and Spanish, with the occasional snatches of Tibetan or Nepali. Korean is hardly ever heard among these workers heading to salons outside New York City, many of them hours away.
每天早上，当大批美甲工聚集在皇后区的法拉盛时，“早上好”的问候几乎都是用汉语和西班牙语发出的，偶尔会有藏语或尼泊尔语。这些美甲工要前往纽约城外的沙龙，许多人在路上要花上几个小时。在他们中间几乎听不到有人讲韩语。
But to the customer settling into the comfort of a pedicure chair in Manhattan, it can seem as if nearly the entire work force is Korean.
不过，对于舒服地坐在曼哈顿的美甲椅上的客人来说，似乎所有的美甲师都是韩裔。
The contrast stems from the stark ethnic hierarchy imposed by nail salon owners. Seventy percent to 80 percent of salons in the city are Korean-owned, according to the Korean American Nail Salon Association.
这种反差来自于美甲沙龙老板一手施加的赤裸裸的种族等级制度。据韩裔美国人美甲沙龙协会(Korean American Nail Salon Association)称，70%到80%的沙龙老板是韩裔。
Korean manicurists, particularly if they are youthful and attractive, typically have their pick of the most desirable jobs in the industry — shiny shops on Madison Avenue and in other affluent parts of the city. Non-Korean manicurists are often forced into less desirable jobs in the boroughs outside Manhattan or even farther out from the city, where customers are typically fewer and tips often paltry.
韩裔美甲师，尤其是年轻漂亮的美甲师，一般可以挑选行业里那些最让人羡慕的工作机会——在麦迪逊大道和城市其他富裕地区的闪亮店面里工作。非韩裔美甲工则通常被迫接受那些不好的工作地点，在曼哈顿以外的区，甚至是那些距离市区更远的地方，那里顾客往往较少，小费也很少的可怜。
In general, Korean workers earn at least 15 percent to 25 percent more than their counterparts, but the disparity can sometimes be much greater, according to manicurists, beauty school instructors and owners.
总体而言，韩裔美甲工的工资至少比其他同行高出15%到25%，但美甲师、美容学校教师和所有者说，这种差距有时可能会更大。
Some bosses deliberately prey on the desperation of Hispanic manicurists, who are often drowning under large debts owed to “coyotes” who smuggled them across the border, workers and advocates say.
一些老板故意利用西语裔美甲师的窘困处境来压榨他们。美甲工和律师们说，西语裔美甲师通常背负着偷渡过境的巨额债务，需要向“蛇头”支付。
Many Korean owners are frank about their prejudices. “Spanish employees” are not as smart as Koreans, or as sanitary, said Mal Sung Noh, 68, who is known as Mary, at the front desk of Rose Nails, a salon she owns on the Upper East Side.
许多韩裔老板并不掩饰自己的一些偏见。68岁的卢莫松（Mal Sung Noh，音译）在自己经营的玫瑰美甲(Rose Nails)的前台说，“西语裔员工”没有韩国员工聪明，也没那么讲卫生。
Ms. Noh’s salon sits behind the construction barricades of the Second Avenue subway line. Perhaps as a result, she employs a handful of Hispanic women. (Less lucrative shops on out-of-the-way streets or on the second stories of buildings tend to be more diverse.) Ms. Noh said she kept her Hispanic manicurists at the lowest rung of work. “They don’t want to learn more,” she said.
卢女士的沙龙位于第二大道地铁线的施工路障后面。也许正是因为这个原因，她仅雇佣了几名西语裔女工。（偏僻马路上生意较差的美甲店或者位于建筑二层的美甲店的员工往往多样化一些。）卢女士说，她安排西语裔美甲工做最低级的工作。“他们不愿意学习新东西，”她说。
Ethnic discrimination imbues other aspects of salon life. Male pedicure customers are despised by many manicurists for their thick toenails and hair-covered knuckles. When a man comes into the store, almost invariably a non-Korean worker is first draft for his foot bath, salon workers said.
种族歧视还会渗透到美甲沙龙生活的其他方面。许多美甲工不愿接待男性足疗顾客，因为他们指甲较厚，指头上还都是汗毛。沙龙里的美甲工说，当有男子进店时，几乎无一例外是非韩裔技师去为他洗脚。
Ana Luisa Camas, 32, an Ecuadorean immigrant, said that at a Korean-owned Connecticut salon where she worked, she and her Hispanic colleagues were made to sit in silence during their entire 12-hour shifts, while the Korean manicurists were free to chat. “For two years I suffered from headaches,” she said. “It was just the stress that was killing me.”
现年32岁的安娜·路易莎·卡马斯(Ana Luisa Camas)是一名厄瓜多尔移民。她说，在她工作的位于康涅狄格州的美甲沙龙，老板是韩裔，她和西语裔同事被要求在长达12小时的工作时间里安静地坐着，而韩裔同事却可以自由聊天。“两年里，我常常会头痛，”她说。“那种压力几乎要把我折磨死了。”
Lhamo Dolma, 39, a manicurist from Tibet who goes by Jackey, recalled a former job at a Brooklyn salon where she had to eat lunch every day standing in a kitchenette with the shop’s other non-Korean workers, while her Korean counterparts ate at their desks.
现年39岁的拉姆卓玛(Lhamo Dolma)是一名来自西藏的美甲师，英文名叫杰基(Jackey)。她回忆说，在之前工作过的一家布鲁克林的美甲沙龙，她和店里的其他非韩裔员工每天都得站着在小厨房里吃午餐，而韩裔员工则可以坐在桌边吃饭。
“Their country people, they are completely free,” she said in an interview in her house in Queens, seated on a low settee beneath her household’s Buddhist shrine. She began to cry. “Why do they make us two different?” she said. “Everybody is the same.”
“他们国家的人，就是完全自由的，”她在皇后区的家中接受采访时说。坐在佛龛下一条低矮长椅上的她突然哭了起来。“为什么要区别对待？”她说。“我们都是一样的人。”
A Scared Newcomer
战战兢兢的新手
There was a bright blue Siamese fighting fish in a Mason jar in a corner of the one-bedroom apartment where Ms. Ren lived with her cousin and four other adults. It rested on a table made from a broken cabinet door. Its name was July, after the month she was told she would finally earn a wage.
在任静和表姐以及另外四个成年人合住的这套一居室公寓里，房间角落的一个梅森食品瓶里养着一条荧光蓝的暹罗斗鱼。瓶子被放在一个用破橱柜门搭成的桌子上。鱼的名字叫七月，那是任静被告知的自己最终能够领到工资的月份。
It was a rare moment of accomplishment for Ms. Ren, now 21, in her early days in New York City. She had holed up indoors for weeks after arriving, too scared to go outside.
对于刚到纽约不久的21岁的任静来说，那是一个少有的让她获得成就感的时刻。在抵达这里之后，她曾经连续几个星期躲在屋里，不敢出门。
She wished she could be like her older cousin and roommate, Ms. Sun, who emerged from their apartment in Flushing each morning looking more like her customers than a manicurist, in bargain-store imitations of Hermès and Chanel. Ms. Sun woke up early each morning to steam her outfit — even her denim shorts — so that all traces of their grim quarters stayed shut up behind the apartment door.
她希望自己可以像同屋的表姐孙雪一样，每天早上走出他们在法拉盛的公寓，穿着廉价商店的山寨爱马仕和香奈儿，看起来更像是她平时接待的顾客，而不是一名美甲师。孙雪每天很早就会起床，熨好衣服，甚至连牛仔短裤也要熨，在人前不会显露出任何在这间破旧公寓居住过的痕迹。
When business at the salon began to slow in late 2013, Ms. Sun, who goes by Michelle, had an idea. She hopped a cheap bus south to Florida, a place she knew little about other than that it was always warm. She figured sandals — and pedicures — were year-round staples. She wandered from shop to shop until she found work.
2013年末，沙龙的生意开始变得清淡时，英文名为米歇尔(Michelle)的孙雪产生了一个想法。她跳上了一辆廉价巴士，来到了佛罗里达州。她对这里一无所知，只知道当地的天气总是很暖和。她想，凉拖肯定是一年四季的必备品，人们也就会常常修脚。她从一家店走到另一家店，最终找到了一份工作。
Upon her return in spring 2014, Ms. Sun was upset to find Ms. Ren nearly a shut-in. Ms. Sun cajoled her younger charge to call salons listing openings online, taking the phone from her when she was too scared to speak to shop owners.
2014年春天从佛罗里达州回来之后，她发现任静几乎没出过门，这让她十分恼火。孙雪劝这个需要自己照顾的妹妹给网上招工的美甲店打电话，任静不敢跟美甲老板讲话，孙雪就夺过电话帮她说。
The day after, Ms. Ren stood on the corner of Franklin Avenue and Kissena Boulevard, her lunchbox in hand, waiting for a van to deliver her to her new salon — where, she did not know.
第二天，任静站在富兰克林大道和凯辛娜大道的拐角，手里拿着饭盒，等着乘面包车到一家沙龙开始工作——她自己不知道地址是什么。
At Bee Nails, the salon in Hicksville, Ms. Ren fumbled even the most simple tasks at first, overwhelmed by nerves. She spent her days making piles of paper twists to swaddle pedicured toes, or cleaning up nail clippings. Her hands trembled when she tried to paint even her own nails in the break room. She refused to join the other Little Job workers for practice sessions, watching shyly.
在希克斯维尔的蜜蜂美甲，任静一开始连最简单的工作都做不好，她太紧张了。她每天都在制作足疗时包裹脚趾的纸卷，或者清理碎指甲。她连在休息室给自己涂指甲时手都会抖。她拒绝参加其他小工的集体练习，只是害羞地在旁边观看。
A week in, her first manicure was on a man. His girlfriend sat next to him, whispering to him about the manicurist’s shaking hands. Ms. Ren said later her hands only shook harder.
一周之后，她接待的第一名顾客是一名男性。他的女朋友坐在旁边，小声对他说美甲师的手在抖。任静说，后来，她的手抖得更厉害了。
“I tried to calm down on my way back in the van — it’s a long trip and quiet,” she said. “I told myself that I have to prove that I’m capable of conquering all these difficulties and make it.”
“乘面包车回家的路上，我试图让自己平静下来——路程很长，一路很安静，”她说。“我告诉自己，我必须要证明我能够战胜一切困难，我能成功。”
At home she stayed up late practicing manicures on her cousin and drafted careful ledgers of her expenses. Her sole income was a few dollars a day in tips, but she was meticulous, tabulating each banana and even her first ice cream from a chiming truck. Beside a doodle of a cone, she wrote “$1.50.” Next to it, in English: “It’s good!”
回到家，她拿表姐当客人练习修甲，一直到了深夜，她还仔细记录了自己的每一笔开销。她每天的收入只有几美元的小费，但她很仔细，每一根香蕉，甚至第一次从贩售车上买冰激凌都要记下来。她画了一个甜筒的图案，写上“1.5美元”。旁边用英文写着：“好吃！”
By October, Ms. Ren had mostly tamed her anxiety. One Sunday morning, as a visitor watched, she sat balanced froglike on a small stool as she hoisted up the feet of a woman in a pink Juicy Couture track suit, deftly scratching off calluses with a roughened foam brick. The woman scrolled on her phone and picked at her cuticles. She addressed Ms. Ren once, when she warned the manicurist of a blister on her heel. Every so often, Ms. Ren sent a nail polish bottle or cuticle nipper flying, but she covered up her error with a titter and useful English phrases her boss encouraged her to practice. “So sorry,” she whispered.
到了10月，任静基本上已经克服了紧张感。周日早上，在一个访客的注视下，她稳稳地坐在一个小板凳上，举起一名身穿粉色橘滋(Juicy Couture)田径服的女顾客的双脚，熟练地用一块粗糙的泡沫砖打磨上面的角质层。这名女子一边滑动着手机屏幕，一边用手撕去死皮。她只跟任静说了一句话，提醒她自己脚后跟上有一个水泡。任静有时也会打翻指甲油或把去皮钳掉在地上，然后浅笑着用一句简单的英语掩盖过去。“太抱歉了，”她低声说。老板会督促她们学习这些英语。
Some evenings, Ms. Sun’s father, a line cook in Manhattan, would whip up elaborate meals of soft-shelled turtle and taro for the young women that reminded them of home. At night, he tucked them into bed with words of encouragement, before drawing closed the wall of curtain that separated his bed from theirs. Try to think of customers’ feet as pig’s feet, he would urge. Don’t they love that Chinese delicacy when he makes it?
孙雪的父亲是曼哈顿的一名二厨。他有时会在傍晚用甲鱼和芋头做一些让她们想起家乡的繁复菜肴。晚上，他会在睡前给她们一些鼓励，然后拉上帘子，到帘子另一侧的床上休息。他说，把顾客的脚想象成猪蹄吧。她们不是很喜欢自己做的这种中国美食吗？
As the cold set in, a time of year when many bosses fire much of their salon staff, Ms. Ren grew anxious again. On slow days, she was sent to stand beside the highway in front of the salon in her green uniform bib, waving fliers. A customer review on the salon’s Yelp page described it as “basically a sweatshop,” and she felt it. Sometimes, she spent entire days dusting hundreds of individual plastic boxes of customers’ personal nail tool kits.
天气转冷之后，许多老板会解雇很大一部分员工，任静又开始焦虑了。在生意惨淡的日子里，她会被派去到沙龙门口的公路旁站着，系着店里统一的绿色围裙，挥舞着传单。一名顾客在这家沙龙的Yelp主页上评论说，这家店“基本上是一家血汗工厂”。任静觉得也是。有时，她要花上好几天去清理数百个顾客的个人美甲工具包塑料盒。
“I felt what I had to do was so pointless,” she later said.
“我觉得我必须做的这些事毫无意义，”她后来说。
Behind the Mercedes
奔驰汽车背后
A gold pendant embossed with Chinese characters and entwined with red thread hangs on the door of a two-story house in Center Moriches, on Long Island,about an hour’s drive east from where Ms. Ren works in Hicksville. A wide creek that empties into Moriches Bay lies on the other side of the street. A Mercedes-Benz sport utility vehicle parks in the driveway.
在长岛的森特莫里奇斯的一栋两层房屋里，门上系着一个编有红绳的金色挂件，上面带着汉字。这里位于任静在希克斯维尔的工作地点的东面，约有一个小时车程的距离。路的另一侧，一条宽阔的溪流正向莫里奇斯湾流淌着。停车道上停着一辆奔驰越野车。
It is the home of the owner of Nail Love, a salon in a nearby shopping center. The charm on the door invokes financial prosperity for the house’s inhabitants. But the lives of the half-dozen manicurists who bunk in the basement are anything but prosperous.
这栋房屋的主人在附近的购物中心经营着一家名叫甲之爱(Nail Love) 的美甲沙龙。门上的挂坠是为了祈祷房子里的人生活富足。但地下室里住着的五、六名美甲师可一点也不富裕。
They are employees of Nail Love. Their dimly lit warren is a barracks provided by the salon’s owner, a common arrangement for workers in salons outside commuting distance from New York City. It saves owners money and sometimes even turns a profit. In some other such situations, workers must pay rent to their bosses.
他们是甲之爱的员工。他们所住的昏暗拥挤的房间是沙龙老板提供的宿舍。纽约城外那些不在通勤距离以内的沙龙通常会给员工提供住宿场所。这种做法为老板们节省了成本，有时甚至还带来了收益。在一些其他的美甲店，住宿舍的员工必须向老板支付房租。
Nail salon owners are often the success stories of their immigrant communities. Some owners rose from the ranks of manicurists themselves. In interviews, many owners expressed a vision of themselves as heroic, shouldering the burden of training workers and the risk of employing people who are not legally permitted to work in the United States. Fees extracted from new workers like Ms. Ren are proper compensation for the inconvenience of providing training, they said. Several owners said they felt betrayed when their workers quit or sued.
美甲沙龙老板通常是他们移民社区里的成功人士。有些老板自己就是从做美甲工起家的。在采访中，许多店主把自己视为英雄，因为他们既承担着培训员工的责任，还因为雇佣了无合法劳动资格的人而面临风险。他们说，从任静这类新员工那里拿的钱，是对提供培训造成的麻烦的合理补偿。有几个老板说，当有员工辞职或起诉自己时，感觉就像遭到了背叛。
“They don’t stop to think how difficult it is nowadays to keep the door of our business open to service people,” Romelia M. Agudo, the former owner of a Park Slope salon, Romy’s Nails, wrote in an affidavit asking a judge to dismiss a lawsuit by two of her employees who said they were underpaid and denied lunch breaks.
“他们都不停下来想想，现如今要保持小店开张，为顾客提供服务有多难，”公园坡的美甲沙龙罗米美甲店(Romy’s Nails)的前老板罗梅利亚·M·阿古多(Romelia M. Agudo)在一份证词中写道，请求法官驳回她的两名前员工提起的诉讼。那两名员工称自己酬劳过低，并且没有午休时间。
Many owners defended their business methods as the only way to stay afloat in the face of so much competition.
很多美甲店老板辩称，面对如此激烈的竞争，他们的业务模式是维持生存的唯一途径。
Ansik Nam, former president of the Korean American Nail Salon Association, said that in the early 2000s, scores of owners held an emergency meeting at a Korean restaurant in Flushing, hoping to prevent manicure and pedicure prices from sagging further. He said no agreement was reached.
美国韩裔美甲沙龙协会(Korean American Nail Salon Association)前会长安西科·南(Ansik Nam)说，在本世纪初，数十名美甲店老板曾在法拉盛的一家韩国餐厅召开过一次紧急会议，希望防止美甲和修脚服务的价格进一步下跌。他说当时未能达成一致意见。
The association’s current president, Sangho Lee, declined a request to address issues of underpayment in salons. So many owners do not pay minimum wage, he said, that he believed answering any questions would hurt the industry.
该协会现任会长李相昊（Sangho Lee，音）拒绝了就美甲沙龙内部工资较低的问题发表评论的请求。他说，开的工资低于最低工资的老板非常多，因此他觉得回答任何问题都可能会伤害到这个行业。
Tucked between the hand dryers of NYC Nail Spa on the Upper West Side, where the beginners’ wage is $10 a day, the grim math of the nail salon industry is seemingly laid bare on a neatly typed sign, urging customers in broken English to tip well: “Less tips make us hard to hire good workers, or we have to pay higher wages to hire them, which might also cause a raise on the price.”
在上东区的NYC美甲休闲中心(NYC Nail Spa)，初学者的工资是每天10美元。美甲沙龙行业的严峻形势看似就展露在一张整齐打印出来的提示上。位于干手器中间的那张提示用蹩脚的英语劝顾客多给点小费：“小费少会让我们难以雇到优秀的员工，否则我们就得开更高的工资雇他们，这可能也会导致涨价。”
In an interview, the owner’s wife, who would give only her first name, Hwu, said the salon’s sales exceeded $400,000 a year but there were significant expenses as well,like rent and payroll.  Speaking at the salon in February, shortly after her husband dropped her off in their Cadillac S.U.V., she said some of her beginners were not paid $10 a day. She pointed to a male manicurist on his first day on the job: If he did not show promise, she said, he would not be paid at all.
在一次采访期间，只愿透露自己姓胡的老板娘说，该沙龙一年的销售额超40万美元，但诸如店面租金和工人工资等开支也很可观。她是今年2月在自家的美甲沙龙里接受采访的，当时，她刚被丈夫用一辆凯迪拉克SUV送去店里不久。她说，店里的部分初学者没有一天10美元的工资。她指向一名第一天上班的男美甲师说，如果他让老板看不出有希望，他一点工资也得不到。
The owners of Iris Nails, a chain with shops in Manhattan and Brooklyn, had seven stores that generated sales of $8 million per year, according to a 2012 article in Korea Daily, a Korean-American newspaper. At the two Iris salons on Madison Avenue on the Upper East Side, longtime workers described starting wages of $30 and $40 a day. The owners did not respond to requests for comment.
据面向韩裔美国人的报纸《韩国日报》(Korea Daily)在2012年的一篇文章介绍，店铺分布在曼哈顿和布鲁克林的连锁企业艾丽斯美甲(Iris Nails)的老板，有七家店面，年销售额达800万美元。在上东区麦迪逊大道的两家艾丽斯沙龙里，从业时间颇久的员工称起薪分别是一天30美元和40美元。店主没有回应置评要求。
The contrast between owners' and workers' lives can be stark.
老板和雇员的生活状况，有时会有天壤之别。
Sophia Hong, who owned Madison Nails in Scarsdale, N.Y., prides herself on her art collection, including at least one work by Park Soo Keun, a Korean artist who had a painting sell for nearly $2 million at Christie’s in 2012. The art hangs in her home in Bayside, Queens, one of several properties she owns, according to property records, including a Manhattan apartment in a luxury building overlooking Columbus Circle. In 2010, she was sued by an employee at her Scarsdale salon for failing to pay overtime. The case was settled, according to the lawyer for the manicurist. Ms. Hong declined to comment.
纽约州斯卡斯代尔的麦迪逊美甲(Madison Nails)的老板索菲娅·洪(Sophia Hong)为自己艺术藏品感到自豪，其中包括至少一幅韩国画家朴寿根(Park Soo-keun)的作品。2012年，朴寿根的一幅画在佳士得(Christie's)拍出了近200万美元的价格。那幅画挂在她位于皇后区贝塞的家里。房产记录显示，那里只是她拥有的多处房产中的其中一处。她在曼哈顿还有一处公寓，位于一栋可以俯瞰哥伦布环岛的豪华大楼里。2010年，斯卡斯代尔那家美甲店的一名员工将她告上法院，理由是她没有付加班费。据那名美甲师的代理律师介绍，该案达成了和解。索菲娅则拒绝置评。
In rare instances when owners have been found guilty of wage theft, salons have often been quickly sold, sometimes to relatives. The original proprietors vanish, along with their assets, according to prosecutors. Even if they do not, collecting back wages is difficult. Owners can claim they do not have the means to pay, and it is often impossible to prove otherwise, given how unreliable salons’ financial records are.
老板被判克扣工资罪名成立的情况很少见。即使出现这种情况，美甲沙龙通常都被迅速卖掉，有时买家是亲戚。检方称，最初的业主连带他们的资产都会消失。就算没消失，追讨工资也困难重重。老板可以说自己无力偿付，而考虑到美甲沙龙的财务记录的不可靠程度，通常都无法证明他们是在说谎。
Despite winning a landmark court award of over $474,000 in 2012 for underpayment, six manicurists from a chain of Long Island salons under the name Babi have so far received less than a quarter of that, they said. The chain’s owner, In Bae Kim, said he did not have the money, even though records show he sold his house for $1.13 million and a commercial property for $2 million just before the trial.
2012年，来自长岛一家名为Babi的沙龙连锁的六名美甲师在法庭上迎来了里程碑式的判决。尽管法庭裁定被告支付逾47.4万美元的未付工资，但迄今为止，那些美甲师收到的还不到那个数的四分之一。该连锁企业的老板金仁辈（In Bae Kim，音）称自己没钱，但记录显示，就在庭审前，他将自己的房屋和一处商业房产分别以113万美元和200万美元的价钱卖了。
Mr. Kim was arrested last year by the state attorney general’s office on charges of harassing a manicurist at the worker’s new job. He pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct on Jan. 3 and was sentenced to time served — eight days in jail.
金仁辈去年被纽约州总检察长办公室逮捕，罪名是对一名美甲师在其新近找到工作的美甲店进行骚扰。他1月3日承认了妨害治安的行为，并接受了惩罚——拘留八天。
Lack of Investigations
无人问津
During the nearly three months Ms. Ren worked unpaid in the Long Island nail salon, like many manicurists, she had no idea that it was against the law, or that the $30 day wage her boss finally paid her was also illegally low. As an immigrant, she felt happy to have any work at all, she said, and scared to complain. Furthermore, who would listen?
在近三个月的时间里，任静一直在长岛的那家美甲沙龙干着没有薪水的工作，就像许多美甲师一样，她不知道这是违法的，也不知道老板最终付给自己的30美元日薪低于合法水平。她说，作为一名移民，能有工作就很开心了，不敢投诉。再说了，又能向谁投诉？
The Labor Department is the New York State agency responsible for monitoring wage violations. An examination by The Times of the department’s enforcement database dating from 2008, obtained under the state’s Freedom of Information Law, found the department typically opens two or three dozen nail salon cases a year across the entire state. According to census data, there were more than 3,600 nail salons in the state in 2012, the most recent year for which figures were available.
劳工局是纽约州负责监管违反工资法行为的机构。《纽约时报》根据该州的《信息自由法》获得并查阅了该部门2008年以来的执法数据，发现劳工局每年会处理二三十起与美甲沙龙有关的案件。根据人口普查数据，2012年该州共有逾3600家美甲沙龙，这也是目前可以得到的最新数字。
The department opened a vast majority of these cases in response to worker complaints, as opposed to initiating its own investigations, the data shows.
这些数据显示，劳工局处理的案子绝大多数是为了回应员工投诉，而不是主动发起的调查。
A team of investigators regularly performs undercover sweeps of businesses suspected of breaking the law, but the agency had never conducted a sweep of nail salons until last year, said Christopher White, a spokesman for the Labor Department. He declined last month to say more about the salons in the operation or the violations found, because the investigation had not yet been closed. But a review of the 37 cases opened in 2014 showed that almost one-third of them involved shops from a single chain, Envy Nails, the one facing a class-action lawsuit from its workers.
一队调查人员会定期对涉嫌违法的企业作卧底检查，但该部门在去年之前还从未检查过美甲沙龙，劳工局发言人克里斯托弗·怀特(Christopher White)称。他在上个月以调查尚未完全结束为由拒绝进一步透露与清查美甲沙龙以及所发现的违法行为相关的消息。然而，对2014年开启的37桩案件的审查表明，几乎有三分之一的案子涉及同一家连锁艳羡美甲（Envy Nails），它正面临着来自员工们的集体诉讼。
When the department does investigate a salon, more than 80 percent of the time the agency finds workers have been unpaid or underpaid and tries to recover the money, The Times’s analysis showed.
时报的分析显示，该部门调查一家美甲沙龙时，他们大约有80％以上的几率会发现员工没有得到薪水或薪水过低的情况，并且会尝试为员工要回这些钱。
The department declined to make anyone available to discuss its investigative work on the record. It took nine months of repeated inquiries from The Times for the department to turn over part of its enforcement database.
该部门拒绝让任何工作人员公开与记者讨论相关的调查工作。时报花了九个月的时间反复申请，才得到该部门执法数据库的部分内容。
Only a small number of the workers interviewed by The Times said they had ever seen an investigator, from any government agency, at their salon.
只有很小一部分接受采访的员工说，他们曾在其工作的美甲沙龙见过政府部门的调查员，不管他们来自哪个部门。
Among the Labor Department’s 115 investigators statewide — 56 are based in New York City — 18 speak Spanish and 8 speak Chinese, essential tools for questioning immigrant workers to uncover whether they are being exploited. But just two speak Korean, according to the department. Department officials say all of their inspectors have access to interpreting services.
根据劳工局的信息显示，全州范围内的115名调查员中——56位位于纽约——18人讲西班牙语，八人讲中文，这项语言技能对于询问移民劳动者以发现其是否受到剥削是不可或缺的。但是其中只有两人说韩语。劳工局官员称，所有的调查员都可以得到口译服务。
When investigators try to interview them, manicurists are frequently reluctant to cooperate, more so than in any other industry, according a Labor Department official involved who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the official was not permitted to talk with reporters. “It’s really the only industry we see that in,” the person said, explaining that it most likely indicated just how widespread exploitation is in nail salons. “They are totally running scared in this industry.”
当调查人员试图采访他们时，与其他任何行业相比，美甲师们常常更不愿意提供合作，据劳工局的一位官员称。这位官员不愿透露姓名，因为官方不允许其与记者交谈。“这是唯一一个出现这种情况的行业”，此人表示，并解释称这很有可能表明剥削情况在美甲沙龙中普遍存在。“他们在这个行业中感到非常恐惧。”
Manicurists are also required to be licensed, but this is another area where enforcement is lax. There are nearly 30,000 licensed nail technicians in the state, according to the New York Department of State, but numerous manicurists, including Ms. Ren, work without licenses. Licenses are frequently fabricated, bought and sold.
规定还要求美甲师持有从业执照，但这是另一个执法不严的领域。据纽约州政府提供的信息，该州有近3万名持证的美甲师，但仍有众多的美甲师，包括任静在内，在没有取得许可证的状态下工作。工作许可证常常出现造假或买卖情况。
Manicurists say that even when government agencies do check on their employers, evasion is easy.
美甲师说，即使政府部门对他们的雇主进行检查，沙龙也能轻易避开监管。
Lili, a manicurist from Ecuador who is picked up every morning in Flushing near Ms. Ren, laughs when she recalls the time state inspectors visited the Westchester County salon where she works. Spotting them, her boss barked for all the unlicensed workers — there were 10 — to hustle out the back door.
丽丽(Lili)是一位来自厄瓜多尔的美甲师，每天早上都会在法拉盛离任女士不远的地方等待班车。在回忆检查人员走访她工作过的威斯特彻斯特县的沙龙时的笑着说道，当她的老板一发现检查人员，就对所有没有许可证的工人咆哮起来，让他们10个人赶紧从后门离开。
“So we left, we got in the car, and we took a spin around the neighborhood,” said Lili, who declined to give her surname because she is in this country illegally. “Twenty, 30 minutes later we returned. After they’d gone. We put our uniforms back on and we returned to work.”
“所以我们走了，上了一辆车，在附近的街道上绕了几圈，”丽丽说。她不愿意透露自己的姓氏，因为她在美国属于非法滞留。“二三十分钟后我们又回到那里，那时他们已经走了。然后我们穿上工作服重新回到工作岗位”。
No Refunds
没有退款
This past fall, Ms. Ren’s parents arrived from China. Work had dried up for her mother, an insurance saleswoman, and father, a sometime chef, and they missed their only child. The visitors stuffed the one-bedroom with a total of eight bodies before Ms. Ren, her mother and her father had to move out. The manicurist packed up her pet fish, and the family installed itself a few blocks down Union Street in a dank basement apartment, where for $830 a month the three share one bedroom.
去年秋天，任静的父母从中国来访。担任保险推销员的母亲，与偶尔做厨师工作的父亲都苦无业务，也想念他们的独生女。两位访客挤进了已有六人居住的一居室，直到他们与女儿必须搬离的日子。任静带着自己养的斗鱼，与家人用每月830美元的租金住进离联合街(Union Street)不远的住所──一间潮湿的地下一居室公寓。
At work Ms. Ren earned a raise, lifting her spirits. She now made $40 a day.
工作上，任静很高兴自己的工资被调整到40美元。
Inspired by her cousin, who had enrolled again in English classes, Ms. Ren signed up as well in October, three days a week. School, she hoped, would be a way out of a job she had come to loathe, but some days her hands ached too much to go to class — she could not hold a pencil. Other days she was just too tired.
她的表姐再次开始上英文课，这也鼓舞了她，在10月报名参加一周三天的课程。她希望学校可以让她摆脱这个令她厌恶的工作，但有时她的手痛到无法握笔，或是工作太过劳累，只好缺课。
Around the time her first semester of English classes wrapped up, Ms. Ren asked for another raise. It was then she learned there are actually two price lists at her salon. One is for customers. The other is jotted down in a hidden-away notebook and lists the prices employees must pay the owner to learn new skills: such as $100 for eyebrow waxing, $100 to learn how to apply gel and cure it with ultraviolet light. A raise would require a new skill — her boss suggested eyebrows and gel — and the cash fee.
差不多在第一学期的英文课结束后，任静再次提出加薪的要求。她当时得知沙龙有两种价目表。一种供客人参考，一种则写在秘藏的笔记本里，记录员工学习新技能时，要付给老板的学费：像是蜜蜡修眉要价100美元，施用美甲胶与如何用紫外光卸除凝胶，也要100美元。要想加薪，就需要学习新技能，老板建议她学会修眉和美甲胶的使用。
She was in the nail salon van when her boss told her of the fee, as he drove her to a different Long Island salon he owns. He shuttles employees between the two shops, depending upon which is busiest. An iPad propped on the dashboard played video feeds from both salons. Ms. Ren responded to the new fee with uncharacteristic furor.
老板在长岛有另一间沙龙。他依照旗下两家店面的繁忙程度，来决定把员工送到哪家店面。在沙龙接送员工的厢型车上，有一台立在仪表板的iPad，同时播放着两间沙龙的影像。他在路上告诉了任静有关费用的事情，新的费用让任静表露出了与其性格不符的愤怒。
Her boss relented: He would give her a 50 percent discount. She refused.
老板的态度软化，表示会给她打五折。但她拒绝了。
“I already paid when I first came,” she said. “Now I’m an employee and have been here for so long. Why do I still have to pay to pick up new skills?”
“我一到这儿就付了钱，”她说。“现在的我已经是工作了好一阵子的员工，为什么我还要付钱学习新技能呢？”
In an interview, Mr. Sun, Ms. Ren’s boss said the fees were “deposits” so employees did not leave with their new skills for another salon, and were eventually refunded. Ms. Ren said she never got back the $100 she had paid to start working.
任静的雇主孙老板在采访中说，费用是确保学会新技能的员工不会跳槽的“保证金”，最后会退还。但任静说，她从没拿回当初取得工作的100美元。
For weeks after the van ride, she dreamed of quitting. But there was another semester of English classes in the spring, and though her parents pledged to help support her, they could not do it alone.
车上谈话之后的几周，任静考虑辞职。但是她的英文课将在春季开课，虽然父母承诺资助，也不够负担开销。
The final affront was a red envelope embossed in gold, a traditional Lunar New Year gift her boss placed in her hands in February, the Chinese character for happiness and luck gleaming from the paper. She opened it to find just $20.
让任静感到羞辱的最后一根稻草，是老板2月发给她的春节红包。用烫金字体写着“福”字的红包里面只有20美元。
She quit on March 8. Her boss said nothing; one colleague hugged her goodbye. After 10 months she had made about $10,000, she said.
她在3月8日离职，老板什么也没说；一名同事与她拥抱道别。她说，这10个月来赚了约有1万美元。
Last month, she found a $65-a-day job at another nail salon.
她上个月在另一家美甲沙龙找到工作，每天工资65美元。
By then, her parents had also found work. Her father is a cook at a restaurant.
那时，任静的父母也找到了工作。她的父亲在一间餐厅做厨师。
Her mother? She became a manicurist, for $30 a day.
而她的母亲，则成了每天工资30美元的美甲师。