A deal was struck two years ago to turn the neo-Gothic tower of the Woolworth Building into luxury condominiums, creating an unusual opportunity for wealthy apartment-hunters to own a piece of one of New York’s most recognizable landmarks.
两年前达成的一笔交易，将会把新哥特风格的伍尔沃斯大厦(Woolworth Building)改建成一栋奢华共管公寓。这就给那些富有的购房者带来一个千载难逢的机会，使他们有望入住纽约市最有名的一处地标建筑。
Now, just a few doors down from the 101-year-old building at 233 Broadway, the sales office is poised to open. Inside, an opulent model apartment will harken to another age, with prewar proportions, dark herringbone floors and marble-clad bathrooms.
伍尔沃斯大厦坐落于百老汇(Broadway)233号，已有101年的历史了。其售楼处的办公室与之仅有几步之遥，目前即将开业。在售楼处内，一座富丽堂皇的公寓样板间，将倾听另一个时代的声音。它融合了战前风格的设计元素，铺设着深色人字形地板，并在浴室铺上大理石。
W motifs appear throughout — on doorknobs and marble kitchen backsplashes. They were cast from the original logos on the elevators, lest prospective buyers forget where they are.
“W”图案在公寓里随处可见——比如在门把手和厨房里的后防溅板上。这种图案是依据电梯上原有的标志铸造而成，其目的是为提醒潜在买家，这里是伍尔沃斯大厦。
“We didn’t want people to walk in and feel like they could be in an anonymous skyscraper,” said Kenneth S. Horn, the president of Alchemy Properties, which is reinventing the top 30 floors of the copper-domed skyscraper, designed by Cass Gilbert and the world’s tallest when it opened in 1913. “As opposed to many new buildings where you get a white box, we very much wanted people to know ‘I am living in the Woolworth Building.’ ”
“我们不想让客户走进来后，就觉得他们只是进入了一栋毫无特色的摩天大楼，”炼金地产(Alchemy Properties)的总裁肯尼斯·S·霍恩(Kenneth S. Horn)说。该公司正在改建伍尔沃斯大厦上部的30层楼。伍尔沃斯大厦是由卡斯·吉尔伯特(Cass Gilbert)设计的摩天大楼，带有铜制屋顶，1913年落成时是当时世界上最高的建筑物。“在很多新楼盘，你能买到的只是一套白盒子般的房子而已，但我们很想让客户体验到那种‘我住的是伍尔沃斯大厦’的感觉。”
But to own a piece of the monument to Frank W. Woolworth’s discount retail empire, buyers must be willing to pay prices that are a long way from the five-and-dime.
不过，由于伍尔沃斯大厦是弗兰克·W·伍尔沃斯(Frank W. Woolworth)这个折扣零售帝国留下的丰碑，要想在这座丰碑里买一套房子，买家所需支付的价格远远不是折扣百货的价格可以比拟的。
Thirty-four residences, spanning half and full floors, will begin on the 29th floor and range from a 1,290-square-foot one-bedroom for $3.875 million to the 9,403-square-foot seven-level penthouse in the pinnacle. Called “the Castle in the Sky,” the penthouse will have a two-story living room with a fireplace, an elevator and an outdoor observatory; the price is $110 million.
大厦内有34套住宅，占据了半个到整个楼层。住宅从29楼开始，最小的房型是面积1290平方英尺（约合120平方米）、要价387.5万美元（约合人民币2373万元）的一居室；最大的则是面积9403平方英尺（约合874平方米）的七层顶层公寓，位于大厦的尖顶处。那套顶层公寓被称为“空中城堡”，它将配备一间占据两层楼且带壁炉的客厅、一间电梯和一个室外瞭望台，房价为1.1亿美元（约合人民币6.7亿元）。
Two- and three-bedrooms, which will make up the bulk of the offerings, are to begin at $7.25 million and $9.575 million respectively. Two “pavilion residences” on the 29th floor will be distinguished by huge private terraces and will set buyers back more than $20 million each.
两居室和三居室是大厦内的主流房型，起价分别为725万美元（约合人民币4440万元）和957.5万美元（约合人民币5864万元）。位于29楼的两套“豪华住宅”将配备超大的私人露台，每套的要价超过2000万美元（约合人民币1.2亿元）。
“The way we looked at it,” Mr. Horn said of the apartments, “they are almost like individual pieces of art. If you get one, you’re buying one in a rare collection.”
“我们是这么看待它的，”霍恩提到这些公寓时说，“它们是几近独一无二的艺术品。买下其中一套，就相当于拥有了一套稀有收藏品中的一件。”
Already, he added, several contracts have been signed and several more are out, pending signatures. Buyers include architectural enthusiasts, TriBeCa locals and families from abroad. The building is scheduled for completion in July 2016.
他还说，有好几笔交易已经成交，另有几份合约只待签字。买家包括建筑爱好者、翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的本地住户，还有来自海外的家庭。这栋建筑定于2016年6月完工。
The sales office was a work in progress on a recent tour, but the message conveyed by the developer and his team was clear. “Everything is being done in a manner that’s just, in our opinion, totally true to the design of the building,” Mr. Horn said.
最近，笔者前去采访时，售楼处仍在筹备当中，但是开发商及其团队传达的信号很明确。“我们认为，所有筹备工作都完全忠于大厦的设计。”霍恩说。
Thierry W. Despont, the French-born, TriBeCa-based designer whose résumé includes the restoration of the Statue of Liberty and, currently, the renovation of the Ritz Paris, has been hired to reimagine the space. This will be his first collection of residential apartments in a condominium.
定居在翠贝卡区的设计师蒂埃里·W·德蓬(Thierry W. Despont)生于法国，曾参与修复自由女神像，最近的履历则包括修缮巴黎丽兹酒店(Ritz Paris)。他受聘重新构思大厦的空间，这是他第一次设计共管公寓楼的住宅公寓。
“The opportunity to bring back to life such an amazing landmark was so exciting,” said Mr. Despont, whose design pays homage to Mr. Gilbert’s original work.
“能够有机会复原这样一座不可思议的地标建筑，真是太令人兴奋了，”德蓬说。他的设计是对吉尔伯特原创作品的致敬。
His new residential lobby, which will have an entrance on Park Place, draws inspiration from the majestic original lobby still used today by office tenants, with a double set of custom metal and glass doors opening to maple-paneled walls and marble floors. The ornate coffered ceiling that originally decorated F. W. Woolworth’s personal office is being restored, reinforced and relocated from the 40th floor to the new lobby.
他设计的公寓大堂，在帕克广场(Park Place)将有一个入口，其灵感源于那间大厦原有的、富丽堂皇的大堂，办公区的租户们仍在使用它。而公寓大堂将安装一扇特别定制的、金属与玻璃材质的双开门，内部将铺设枫木墙板和大理石地面。原本用于装饰F·W·伍尔沃斯私人办公室的华丽方格天花板已被修复、加固，并从40楼移到了新大堂里。
“The concept was to graft as much as we could from the building,” said Mr. Horn of Alchemy, who noted that at one point the company had 21 hanging scaffolds on the exterior as repairs to the building’s terra-cotta-framed windows were mapped. “We kind of walked around the floors and said, ‘Gee, can we can keep that, we can do this.’ ”
“我们的理念是，尽可能利用大厦原有的装饰物，”炼金地产的霍恩说，他注意到，公司在为那些窗框上带有陶制构件的窗户制定修缮计划时，曾一度在外墙上动用了21个悬挂式脚手架。“走在楼里的时候，我们几乎一路都在说，‘噢，这个可以保留，那个也可以保留。’”
“This isn’t contractor work,” said Rod Stewart, whose company, Historic Plaster Conservation Services of Port Hope, Ontario, is overseeing the restoration and relocation of the ceiling coffers. “This is museum work.”
“这不是承包商的作品，”罗德·斯图尔特(Rod Stewart)说，他的公司——安大略霍普港(Port Hope)的Historic Plaster Conservation Services正在监督天花板方格嵌板的修复和重置，“这是博物馆的手笔。”
Striding across the cavernous 40th floor of the Woolworth Building, whose 360-degree views include the Empire State Building, New York by Gehry and One World Trade Center, Mr. Stewart stopped at one of 30 large wooden crates his team had carefully packed.
在伍尔沃斯大厦的第40层，你可以看到的360度景观里有帝国大厦、纽约盖里（New York by Gehry，原称为比克曼大厦——译注）和世界贸易中心一号大楼(One World Trade Center)。斯图尔特穿过空旷的40楼，在一个大木箱边停住了。他的团队总共在这里精心打包了30个大木箱。
“Here’s the sweet spot,” he said, gingerly lifting the lid to reveal a 101-year-old blue- and peach-colored plaster coffer with a new reinforced backing. “It’s like as good as gold.”
“这就是‘甜蜜点’，”他说着，小心翼翼地掀开盖子。只见箱子里装的是一块拥有101年历史的、蓝色与桃粉色石膏镶板，新换的背面经过了加固。“它的状态好极了。”
The Witkoff Group and Cammeby’s International formed a partnership in 1998 to acquire the Woolworth Building for $126.5 million. At one point the companies considered remaking the tower as an exclusive “office club” aimed at hedge funds and private equity firms. As part of the plan, the top 25 floors, once occupied by tenants like dentists and barbers, were gutted and a large shaft was created for high-speed elevators. But the tower has been vacant for more than a decade.
1998年，维特科夫集团(Witkoff Group)和坎默比国际公司(Cammeby’s International)以12.65亿美元（约合人民币77.5亿元）的价格联手收购了伍尔沃斯大厦。两家公司曾一度考虑重建这座大厦，作为面向对冲基金和私募股权公司的独家“俱乐部”。作为计划的一部分，大厦的上层部分共有25层楼被清空——这里曾经入驻诸如牙医、理发店这类租户；一条大通道被开辟出来，用于修建高速电梯。但是，这栋大厦被空置了十多年。
The residential conversion includes removing 1913-size elevators, restoring the terra-cotta facade, re-creating decorative railings and installing new windows that maximize both light and views.
而和住宅相关的改造计划包括：拆除1913年的电梯，修缮大厦表面的陶构件，重制装饰扶手，安装新的窗户，以最大的限度优化采光和景观。
For the pavilion residences, the Landmarks Preservation Commission approved an addition atop the 29th-floor setbacks on the north and south sides to allow for both more interior room and those huge terraces.
针对那些豪华住宅，地标建筑保护委员会(Landmarks Preservation Commission)已批准在29楼南北两面缩进处的上方进行增建，以增加更多的室内房间和超大露台。
There was also a tug-of-war over the abandoned 55-foot-long swimming pool in the basement, originally commissioned by Woolworth.
此外，针对地下室55英尺长（约合17米）的废弃游泳池，一场拉锯战也已展开。这座游泳池原本是伍尔沃斯委托修建的。
Mr. Despont wanted to get rid of the swimming pool because of the complexity of restoring it, but Mr. Horn was determined to keep it.
德蓬想要拆掉游泳池，因为它修缮起来很难。但是霍恩决意保留它。
“So I made a deal,” Mr. Despont joked. “I give you a swimming pool, you give me wine cellars.”
“于是我做了笔交易，”德蓬开玩笑说，“我给你游泳池，你给我酒窖。”
The pool area will be finished in tiles by Bisazza Mosaico and include a sauna and a hot tub. The new wine cellar will be lined with custom millwork and chilled to 55 degrees. The Gilbert Lounge on the 29th floor will have a catering pantry for residents who wish to give a private party. There will also be a fitness center on the 30th floor.
泳池区将采用意大利瓷砖制造公司Bisazza Mosaico生产的瓷砖，还将配备一个桑拿房和一个热水浴缸。新的酒窖将采用定制的木工制品，窖内温度将冷却至55（华氏）度。位于29楼的吉尔伯特休闲室(Gilbert Lounge)将配备食品间，以服务于想举办私人派对的居民。30楼还将开设一间健身中心。
“It’s 34 families,” said Mr. Despont of the residents who will get to use those facilities. “It’s a private club.”
“楼内可以住34户人家，”德蓬谈到可以使用这些设施的居民时说，“这是一个私人俱乐部。”
Recalling the day he closed on the $68 million deal to acquire the top 30 floors of the “Cathedral of Commerce” from the Witkoff Group and Cammeby’s International, Mr. Horn said he stepped out into the sunshine of Battery Park City, where the deal was made, and looked up.
据霍恩回忆，在他以6800万美元（约合人民币4.2亿元）的价格从维特科夫集团和坎默比国际公司那里收购了这栋“商业大教堂”(Cathedral of Commerce)上层共30层楼的那天，他走出室外，走在交易地点炮台公园城(Battery Park City)的阳光下，抬头看了看。