William Ackman is a wildly successful hedge fund manager. He oversees $17 billion of mostly other people’s money. Forbes estimates his personal net worth at $1.7 billion. These facts alone would make him a prime candidate to buy the penthouse condominium at One57, the new luxury tower on West 57th Street.
威廉·阿克曼(William Ackman)是一位功成名就的对冲基金经理，掌管着1700亿美元（约合人民币10395亿元）的资金，其中多数都是别人的钱。而他个人的净身价，据福布斯(Forbes)估计也达到了17亿美元（约合人民币104亿元）。单凭这些事实，就足以让他成为西57街新建的奢华公寓大楼One57那套顶层共管公寓的首席候选买家了。
And indeed, Mr. Ackman told The Times in a fascinating profile Sunday that he is the buyer of the 13,500-square-foot condo with an estimated price of $90 million. What is more shocking is what he plans to do with it.
果然，在《纽约时报》上周日（10月25日——译注）发布的一篇引人入胜的人物特写里，阿克曼告诉记者，他正是那套面积13500平方英尺（约合1254平方米）的共管公寓的买家，交易价约9000万美元（约合人民币5.5亿元）。更让人惊讶的是他买房的目的。
Apparently content living with his family on the Upper West Side, he told The Times he was purchasing one of the most expensive properties in New York because “I thought it would be fun” and he and some close friends “bought into this idea that someday, someone will really want it and they’ll let me know.” They may throw the occasional party there.
显然，阿克曼已经满足于同家人住在上西区(Upper West Side)了。他告诉《时报》，自己买下纽约最贵的一处房产是因为“我觉得那样会很好玩”。而他和一些好友都“持有一种想法，将来有一天，会有人真的很想买下它，于是就会来找我。”他们可能偶尔会在那里举办派对。
Bill Ackman is a condo flipper! It may be the most expensive attempted condo flip in history, but in substance it isn’t much different from the middle-class dreamers who bought a preconstruction condo in Florida in the mid-2000s in hopes of selling it a couple of years later at a great profit.
比尔·阿克曼(Bill Ackman)是个共管公寓倒爷！这或许是历史上成本最高的一次共管公寓倒卖尝试，但从本质上看，它跟那些在2005年前后以赚取高额差价为目的、在佛罗里达(Florida)购买预售共管公寓的中产阶级投机者，也没什么不同。
It may seem like a funny example of the ways the wealthiest one-hundredth of 1 percent live. But it is also, as it happens, an uncommonly clear window into some of the deeper flaws of 21st-century finance.
这看起来或许是个有趣的实例，反映出那1%的富人是怎样过日子的。但是它刚好也淋漓尽致地展现出21世纪金融业的某些更大的缺陷。
Why do we have a financial industry? Banks, bond and stock markets, hedge funds and private equity shops play a lot of roles in the economy, but the most fundamental is to channel capital to its highest and most productive use. That’s a really important role, on which economic growth depends. When it is done wrong (as when the financial system funneled billions to money-burning dot-coms in the late 1990s or toward unsupportable mortgage loans in the mid-2000s), the consequences are devastating. When the financial system channels money to companies with good business prospects, making capital available to those with the best ideas, it works for everybody.
我们为何会有金融行业？银行、债券、股市、对冲基金和私募基金市场，都在经济中发挥着诸多作用，但是最基本的作用是引导资本流动，使其得到最高效的利用。这是一个非常重要的作用，经济的增长就有赖于此。一旦这个环节出现问题（比方说，在20世纪90年代末，数十亿美元的资金通过金融体系注入了烧钱的互联网业；再比如，同样巨额的资金在本世纪头十年中期，流向了无担保的抵押贷款），那就会造成灾难性的后果。如果金融体系将钱引向商业前景光明的公司，让那些想法最出色的人能够加以利用，那么所有人都会受益。
There are arms of the financial industry that don’t immediately seem to fit that classification of “people who help steer capital to productive uses” but that do make the whole system work better. For example, in futures markets there are traders whom you might want to write off as speculators, but in fact provide a useful service. They ensure that when an airline needs to insure against rising jet fuel prices, or a manufacturer wants to avoid the risk of being paid in a falling currency, somebody will be willing to take the other side of that trade at a reasonable price.
在金融业，有些势力乍看之下并不符合“帮助引导资本，使其得到高效使用”的类型，但他们确实改善了整个体系的运转。比如在期货市场，有些交易者可能在你眼里就是投机分子，但实际上，他们也提供了有益的服务。当航空公司需要针对油价上涨购买保险时，或者当制造商想要规避收到的货款贬值时，他们的存在能够确保有人愿意站在交易的另一方，给出合理的价格。
But at some point you get to parts of the financial industry that aren’t making the economy more efficient. There you find the people exploiting momentary inefficiencies to get richer without making the rest of us any better off. High-frequency trading algorithms are a prime example, with enormous computing power deployed toward exploiting split-second moves that have no meaningful benefit for a company that uses the stock market to raise capital or a long-term investor who wants to buy that stock.
但是有些时候，你会看到，金融业的某些环节并未起到提高经济效率的作用。你会发现，有些人在利用短暂的低效率为自己增加财富，却对他人没有任何好处。高频交易算法(High-frequency trading algorithms)就是一个典型的例子。人们为了对瞬时移动的资金加以利用，投入了庞大的运算力量；而那些资金对于一家在股市里筹资的企业，或一位想在该企业购买股份的长期投资者，是没有任何实质利益的。
There is a lot of financial activity in which it can be hard to tell whether it’s the good type of financial speculation or the bad. When a private equity outfit takes over a company, is it replacing poor management with better management, or just cutting research and development expense and taking on more debt in hopes of flipping the company without actually doing anything to improve its long-term prospects?
在很多金融活动当中，你很难判断某种金融投机行为是好是坏。当一支私募股权基金收购下一家企业时，它究竟是打算用优质的管理来代替糟糕的管理，还是只打算削减研发支出、借入更多债务，以期不必为改善公司的长远预期费任何心思，就寻找到将公司转手的机会呢？
Or, to bring it back to Mr. Ackman, consider the time he waged an attack on Herbalife, the nutritional supplement company, arguing it was a pyramid scheme. Was he exposing potential fraud and making markets more efficient by ensuring that Herbalife’s stock price more accurately reflected its long-term prospects? Or was he using publicity to punish a good company for his own profit?
或者，我们回过头来谈谈阿克曼的例子。当阿克曼对保健品公司康宝莱(Herbalife)发起抨击，宣称它从事传销活动时，他的行为究竟是在揭发可能存在的骗局、让康宝莱的股价更准确地反映其长期预期，从而提高市场效率，还是说，他是在利用自己的公众影响力来惩罚一家好公司，为自己谋私利呢？
In those cases, the answer is ambiguous and debatable.
在那些情况下，答案是模糊而有待商榷的。
Which brings us back to Mr. Ackman’s apparent plans for the penthouse at One57. What makes it interesting is that unlike a typical private equity deal or hedge fund, it is pretty transparent what is going on here, if one takes his comments to The Times at face value.
现在，让我们回过头来看看阿克曼购置One57那套顶层公寓的目的。有意思的是，它跟典型的私募股权或对冲基金的交易不同，如果我们从字面意思来理解他接受《时报》采访时的那套说辞，那么这笔交易是相当透明的。
Mr. Ackman seems to view the penthouse as a one-of-a-kind property. It’s “the Mona Lisa of apartments,” as he put it to the Times, that, thanks to its uniqueness, will appeal so much to some other rich person in a few years that he or she will be willing to pay far more than the estimated $90 million Mr. Ackman and his friends are paying now.
阿克曼似乎将这套顶层公寓视为不可多得的房产。用他的话说，“它是公寓中的蒙娜丽莎，”正因为它独一无二，未来几年里，会有其他富人为之吸引，甘愿掏出比阿克曼和他朋友现在支付的这9000万美元高出许多的价格买下它。
Even if he’s right — and the combination of other super-luxe condo towers now under construction, increasingly hostile relations between the United States and billionaire-rich Russia, and falling oil prices that will hurt the income of Middle Eastern plutocrats all work against him — it’s a fascinating study in financial speculation that isn’t creating any value for society.
且不说还有其它超奢华共管公寓楼盘正在兴建，美俄关系正在日益恶化，油价的下跌使中东财阀的收入缩水，这些因素都对他不利；即便他是对的，对这种不会为社会创造任何价值的金融投机活动的研究，也很有趣。
The finance guys who provided the construction loan that funded the building of One57 helped create value. So did the architects who designed it, the construction workers who built it and the developers who brought all these pieces together to turn a raw piece of land into a 90-story tower with a hotel and housing that people can make good use of.
为One57的建设提供工程贷款的金融界人士，是贡献了价值的。同样创造了价值的人还有设计该楼盘的建筑师、参与施工的工人以及开发商。是开发商将这些资源集中起来，在一片空地上建起了90层的大厦，使里面的酒店和住宅可以供人充分使用。
You could ask what’s the difference between letting it sit and then flipping it and living there and then selling it. It’s a bit like a division of Goldman Sachs that warehoused a huge chunk of global aluminum supplies, as The Times reported last year. Goldman didn’t mine the bauxite or smelt the aluminum. According to that report, it moved aluminum from warehouse to warehouse to make money, during which time the aluminum wasn’t available to be used productively in drink cans or airplane parts.
你可能会问，将房子空置一段时间再倒卖，跟住上一段时间再转手有什么区别。这有点类似于《时报》去年报道的一则新闻——高盛(Goldman Sachs)的一个部门囤积了大量的铝，这些库存占据了全球铝供应量的很大一部分。高盛并没有开采铝土矿或冶炼铝。据报道，它只是将铝材从一间仓库运到另一间仓库来赚钱。在那期间，这些铝材并未被高效地用到饮料罐或飞机零部件的生产中去。
Mr. Ackman is making a bet that the high-end real estate market in New York, for whatever reason, currently misprices the penthouse, and that in a few years this mispricing will be corrected. In the meantime, a 13,500-square-foot apartment with magnificent views of Central Park and, on a clear day, the entirety of New York, will sit empty the great majority of the time waiting for that day.
阿克曼正在下赌注，他认为出于某种原因，纽约高端房产市场为那套顶层公寓定的价格是不对的，而这个错误的定价在几年时间内会被修正；与此同时，那么一套面积13500平方英尺、坐拥中央公园胜景、可以在晴天观赏到整个都市美景的公寓，将在大部分时间里被闲置，只等那一天的到来。