ALBANY, N.Y. — Joining a growing group of states that have loosened restrictions on the use of marijuana, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York plans this week to announce an executive action that would allow limited use of the drug by those with serious illnesses, according to state officials.
纽约奥尔巴尼——美国有越来越多的州放宽对大麻使用的限制，纽约州也加入这一行列。据纽约州一些官员称，纽约州州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)计划于本周宣布一条行政措施，允许患有严重疾病的人有限地使用大麻。
The turnabout by Cuomo, who had long resisted legalizing medical marijuana, comes as other states are taking increasingly liberal positions on marijuana — most notably Colorado, where thousands have flocked to purchase the drug for recreational use since it became legal to do so Jan. 1.
库默曾长期反对医用大麻合法化，他的这一政策转变，正值其他州对大麻采取越来越自由化的立场——其中最引人注目的是科罗拉多州，自从1月1日大麻合法化之后，该州已有成千上万人涌向药店购买消遣用大麻。
Cuomo's plan will be far more restrictive than the laws in Colorado or California, where medical marijuana is available to people with conditions as mild as back ache. It will allow 20 hospitals across the state to prescribe marijuana to patients with cancer, glaucoma, or other diseases that meet standards to be set by the New York State Department of Health.
库默的计划会比科罗拉多州或加利福尼亚州的相关法律严格的多，在加州，就连背痛这样轻微的身体不适也能成为人们合法获得医用大麻的条件。它将允许纽约州20家医院开大麻处方，用途将仅限癌症、青光眼患者或患有其他符合纽约州卫生署所设标准疾病的人。
While Cuomo's measure falls well short of full legalization, it nonetheless moves New York, long one of the nation's most punitive states for those caught using or dealing drugs, a significant step closer to policies being embraced by drug-reform advocates and lawmakers elsewhere.
尽管库默的措施远未让大麻使用全面合法化，但它还是让纽约朝着毒品改革倡导者及其他地方的议员所支持的政策迈出了重要一步——长期以来，纽约州一直是美国对被发现使用或贩卖毒品的人惩罚最为严厉的州之一。
New York hopes to have the infrastructure in place this year to begin dispensing medical marijuana, although it is too soon to say when it will actually be available to patients.
纽约州希望相关基础设施能在今年就位，开始通过药店出售医用大麻，不过现在尚不确定病人何时才能买到。
Cuomo's change of heart comes at an interesting political juncture. In neighboring New Jersey, led by Gov. Chris Christie, a Republican whose presidential prospects are talked about even more often than Cuomo's, medical marijuana was approved by his predecessor but implemented only after he put in place rules limiting its strength, banning home delivery, and requiring patients to show that they have exhausted conventional treatments. The first of six planned dispensaries has already opened.
库默的立场转变发生在一个有趣的政治时机。在相邻的新泽西州，州长、共和党人克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)是比库默更热门的总统竞选潜在竞争者，他的前任批准了医用大麻的使用，但直到克里斯蒂上台后才付诸实施，前提是限制大麻的纯度，禁止配送到家，并要求病人证明已尝试所有传统治疗方法但未见效。该州计划建成的六家药店中的第一家已经开张。
Meanwhile, New York City's new mayor, Bill de Blasio, had quickly seemed to overshadow Cuomo as the state's leading progressive politician.
而与此同时，纽约市新任市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)似乎很快成为该州最锐意进取的政治人物，盖过了库默的风头。
The governor's shift also comes as drug-reform advocates have stepped up criticism of New York City's stop-and-frisk police tactics, as well as the city's stringent enforcement of marijuana laws, which resulted in nearly 450,000 misdemeanor charges between 2002 and 2012, according to the Drug Policy Alliance, which advocates more liberal drug laws.
库默的转变同时正值毒品改革倡导者加大对纽约市拦截盘查政策及该市对管控大麻法律严格执行的批评，据倡导更宽松的毒品法律的毒品政策联盟(Drug Policy Alliance)称，由于执行严格，在2002年到2012年间，已经发起了近45万起轻罪指控。