A federal judge ruled on Monday that the stop-and-frisk tactics of the New York Police Department violated the constitutional rights of minorities in the city, repudiating a major element in the Bloomberg administration’s crime-fighting legacy.
周一，一名联邦法官裁定纽约市警察局(New York Police Department)的截停盘查政策侵犯了该市少数族裔的宪法权利，否定了布隆伯格(Bloomberg)政府有关打击犯罪的重要举措。
The use of police stops has been widely cited by city officials as a linchpin of New York’s success story in seeing murders and major crimes fall to historic lows. The police say the practice has saved the lives of thousands of young black and Hispanic men by removing thousands of guns from the streets.
纽约市官员普遍认为，纽约成功地将谋杀案及重大犯罪的数量降至历史最低，而这主要归功于警方的截停盘查举措。警方称，他们通过截停盘查在街道上截获了数千枪支，因此拯救了数以千计的黑人青年及西语裔青年的生命。
But the judge, Shira A. Scheindlin, found that the Police Department resorted to a “policy of indirect racial profiling” as it increased the number of stops in minority communities. That has led to officers’ routinely stopping “blacks and Hispanics who would not have been stopped if they were white.”
但希拉·A·谢恩德林(Shira A. Scheindlin)法官裁决，警察局根据“间接种族定性政策”，在少数族裔社区增加截停次数。这致使警官常常截停“黑人和西语裔，而如果他们是白人，警方就不会进行截停”。
The judge called for a federal monitor to oversee broad reforms, including the use of body-worn cameras for some patrol officers, though she was “not ordering an end to the practice of stop-and-frisk.”
虽然谢恩德林法官“没有下令禁止实施截停盘查”，但她呼吁在联邦机构的监管下实施广泛的改革，比如在一些巡逻警察身上安装可佩戴式摄像机。
In her 195-page decision, Judge Scheindlin concluded that the stops, which soared in number over the last decade as crime continued to decline, demonstrated a widespread disregard for the Fourth Amendment, which protects against unreasonable searches and seizures by the government, as well as the 14th Amendment’s equal protection clause.
在长达195页的决议中，谢恩德林法官裁定，伴随着犯罪人数的持续下降，截停次数在过去10年中出现猛增，这是对第四修正案(Fourth Amendment)及第十四修正案(14th Amendment)的平等保护条款的广泛无视。第四修正案规定，民众拥有免受政府不合理搜查及扣押的权利。
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg angrily accused the judge of deliberately denying the city “a fair trial” and said the city would file an appeal.
纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)怒斥谢恩德林法官故意拒绝给予纽约“一场公平的审判”，并称该市会提起上诉。
Striking a defiant tone, Mr. Bloomberg said, “You’re not going to see any change in tactics overnight.” He said he hoped the appeal process would allow the current stop-and-frisk practices to continue through the end of his administration because “I wouldn’t want to be responsible for a lot of people dying.”
布隆伯格态度强硬地表示，“你不会突然之间看到策略有所改变。”布隆伯格说，他希望上诉结果会允许纽约在他任期结束之后，继续实施截停盘查，因为“我不想为一些人的死亡负责”.
The judge found that for much of the last decade, patrol officers had stopped innocent people without any objective reason to suspect them of wrongdoing. But her criticism went beyond the conduct of police officers.
谢恩德林法官裁定，在过去10年的很多时间里，巡警曾截停了一些清白的民众，他们其实没有客观理由怀疑这些人存在不法行为。但她的批评不只针对警察的行为。
“I also conclude that the city’s highest officials have turned a blind eye to the evidence that officers are conducting stops in a racially discriminatory manner,” she wrote, citing statements that Mr. Bloomberg and the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, have made in defending the policy.
谢恩德林法官提到了布隆伯格和警察局长雷蒙德·W·凯利(Raymond W. Kelly)为该政策进行辩护时所发表的声明，她写道，“我还断定，纽约市的最高官员对警察抱着种族歧视的态度进行截停盘查的证据视而不见。”
Judge Scheindlin ordered a number of remedies, including a pilot program in which officers in at least five precincts across the city will wear cameras on their bodies to record street encounters. She also ordered a “joint remedial process” — in essence, a series of community meetings — to solicit public comments on how to reform the department’s tactics.
谢恩德林法官下令采取多项改进举措，比如开展试点项目，要求纽约市至少五个管辖区的警察随身佩戴摄像机，记录在街道遇到的人。她还下令采取“联合补救行动”——基本上就是召开一系列社区会议——征求公众对改革警察局策略的意见。
Judge Scheindlin’s decision grapples with the legacy of Terry v. Ohio, a 1968 ruling by the Supreme Court, which held that stopping and frisking was constitutionally permissible under certain conditions. But she said that changes to the way the New York Police Department employed the practice were needed to ensure that the street stops were carried out in a manner that “protects the rights and liberties of all New Yorkers, while still providing much needed police protection.”
谢恩德林法官的判决与1968年“特里诉俄亥俄州案”(Terry v. Ohio)中最高法院作出的判决相左，那次判决认为，截停盘查在某些特定的情况下是被宪法允许的。但她表示，纽约警察局采取这种行动的方式应当改变，以确保截停盘查能“保护所有纽约市民的权利和自由，同时能够提供必要的警察保护”。
The judge found that the New York police were too quick to deem suspicious behavior that was perfectly innocent, in effect watering down the legal standard required for a stop.
法官发现，纽约警察太轻易地就认定的可疑行为实际上完全清白，其结果是淡化了截停需要遵守的法律标准。
“Blacks are likely targeted for stops based on a lesser degree of objectively founded suspicion than whites,” she wrote.
“与白人相比，黑人通常会因为较低的客观嫌疑程度而被截停，”她写道。
She noted that officers routinely stopped people partly on the basis of “furtive movements,” a category that officers have testified might encompass any of the following: being fidgety, changing directions, walking in a certain way, grabbing at a pocket or looking over one’s shoulder.
她还指出，警方截停人们的部分根据是“诡异动作”，据警官作证，这类动作可能是下列的任何一种行为：显得烦躁不安、不停改变行进方向、以特定方式走路、一手插进口袋摸索什么，或是显示出很高的警惕性。
“If officers believe that the behavior described above constitutes furtive movement that justifies a stop, then it is no surprise that stops so rarely produce evidence of criminal activity,” Judge Scheindlin wrote.
“如果警官们认为，上述行为就构成诡异动作，因而可以进行截停的话，那就难怪截停盘查很少能够产生犯罪证据，”谢恩德林法官写道。
She found that in their zeal to identify concealed weapons, officers sometimes stopped people on the grounds that the officer observed a bulge in the person’s pocket; often it turned out that the bulge was caused not by a gun but by a wallet.
她发现，警官急于发现隐匿的武器，会因为看到一个人的口袋凸出一块，而拦住那个人，然而最终却发现凸出物往往不是枪而是钱包。
“The outline of a commonly carried object such as a wallet or cellphone does not justify a stop or frisk, nor does feeling such an object during a frisk justify a search,” she ruled.
“钱包或手机之类的常见物体的外形并不足以构成一次截停盘查的证据，在盘查中感觉到有这类物体也不足以构成搜身所需的证据，”她判决道。
The judge’s ruling, in a class-action lawsuit that represents the broadest legal challenge to the department’s practices, follows a two-month nonjury trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan earlier this year. Her decision cites testimony of about a dozen black or biracial men and one woman who described being stopped, as well as the conclusions of statistical experts who studied police paperwork describing some 4.43 million stops between 2004 and the middle of 2012.
法官的判决来自一次集体诉讼，该诉讼代表了对警察局相关举措的最大规模法律挑战，今年早些时候，曼哈顿联邦地区法院就此案进行了为期两个月的无陪审团审讯。她的判决书提及了约12名黑人男性或混血男性和一名女性的证词，他们描述了自己被截停盘查的经历，此外还有统计学专家的结论，这些人研究了2004年到2012年中期的443万次截停盘查的警方文件。
Judge Scheindlin found that after officers stopped people, they often conducted frisks for weapons, or searched the subjects’ pockets for contraband, like drugs, without any legal grounds for doing so. Also, she found that during police stops, blacks and Hispanics “were more likely to be subjected to the use of force than whites, despite the fact that whites are more likely to be found with weapons or contraband.”
谢恩德林法官发现，在警官截停人们之后，他们通常会盘查武器，或者搜查被盘查者的口袋里是否有违禁品，例如毒品，但这种做法没有任何法律依据。同时她发现，在遭遇警方截停期间，黑人和西语裔“比白人更容易成为使用武力的对象，尽管事实上白人身上更有可能发现武器或违禁品”。