By rights, on a bright Friday afternoon in late spring, Sumeja Tulic had every reason to relish walking the streets of New York, a city she moved to nine months ago from London for graduate school. “When the weather is good, it’s very hard to find a reason to be depressed or melancholic or dissatisfied with the city,” Ms. Tulic said.
按理说，在春末一个明媚的周五下午，苏梅娅·图利克(Sumeja Tulic)完全有理由享受在纽约街头散步的时光。九个月前，她从伦敦来到纽约攻读硕士学位。“天气好的时候，你没有理由情绪低落，感到抑郁，或者对这座城市有什么不满，”图利克说。
Yet her time in New York has coincided with a season of ceaseless ugliness in politics and serial acts of terrorism around the world. “One day you laugh, and then you’re really angry,” said Ms. Tulic, a Bosnian-Libyan and a Muslim.
不过，她在纽约的这段时间里，世界各地碰巧不断出现政治丑闻和系列恐怖袭击事件。“前一天你还在开怀大笑，第二天就变得非常愤怒，”图利克说。她是波斯尼亚裔的利比亚人，是一位穆斯林。
As she walked toward the subway station in TriBeCa on Friday, she hoped for a fair, fresh wind.
周五，当她走向翠贝卡(TriBeCa)地铁站时，希望自己旅途顺利。
“I was saying, ‘Please, God, just something nice — I want to see something nice,’” she said. “Enough of this craziness.”
“当时我心想，‘真主，求求你，赐予我美好的事物吧——我想看到美好的事物，’”她说，“最近疯狂的事太多了。”
At the City Hall station for the R train, she settled onto a bench. It was just after 2 p.m. Only a few people were at the station. The space was quiet, the lack of noise and bustle a substrate for the events about to unfold. A man leaned against a pillar, the way anyone might, waiting for the train that would go uptown in Manhattan and later turn east for Queens. The stillness was interrupted with an announcement. “They said the next train was two stations away,” Ms. Tulic said. Another long moment, then out of the corner of her eye, she glimpsed the man at the pillar collapsing forward, but the movement did not register as much as the sound.
在R线的市政厅站(City Hall)，她坐在一条长椅上休息。当时刚过下午2点，车站里的人不多，很安静。没有噪音，没有喧闹，这为即将发生的事件奠定了基调。一个男人斜靠着一根柱子等车——这并没有什么非同寻常的——那趟车驶往曼哈顿上城方向，然后向东驶向皇后区。车站的寂静被一段广播打断。“广播里说，下趟车离这儿还有两站，”图利克说。又过了好一会儿，她用眼睛的余光瞥见那个靠着柱子的男人向前摔倒，不过他倒地的声音比那个动作更能引起人们的注意。
“The echo of him falling was just horrible,” she said. Others on the platform also heard it.
“他倒地的回声很吓人，”她说。站台上的其他人也都听见了。
“A large thump,” said Miriam Gonzalez, a lawyer who was going to Queens.
“砰得一声，很响，”律师米丽娅姆·冈萨雷斯(Miriam Gonzalez)说。她当时是去皇后区。
“I thought someone carrying a heavy duffle bag dropped it on the platform,” said Rachelle Peterson, a researcher. “This man waiting for the train called out, ‘What was that sound?’ He ran over, peered over the edge, and immediately jumped onto the tracks.”
“我以为是谁把沉重的旅行包扔到了地上，”研究员雷切尔·彼得森(Rachelle Peterson)说，“有个等车的人喊道，‘什么声音？’他跑过去，在站台边往下看了一眼，立刻跳到了铁轨上。”
The man who had fallen was not moving. “The guy was out cold,” said Brenda Soriano, who was on her way home to the Bronx from her job at a college. “One of the gentlemen was trying to wake him up, and he just couldn’t.”
掉下去的那个男人一动不动。“那个人昏过去了，”布伦达·索里亚诺(Brenda Soriano)说。她在一所大学里工作，当时是乘车回布朗克斯的家。“有一位先生努力唤醒他，但他没反应。”
In what seemed like an instant, two more men jumped down to help.
很快，又有两个男人跳下去帮忙。
“I don’t know where these men got the wit and the quickness,” Ms. Tulic said. “The man who fell was about six foot tall, a heavy man by default. He was kind of jammed in the tracks.”
“我不知道这些男人哪来的机智和敏捷，”图利克说，“掉下去那个人大概六英尺高（约合1.82米），还比较重。他好像卡在轨道里了。”
Ms. Tulic, a human rights worker now studying in the graduate journalism school at the City University of New York, pulled out her cellphone and recorded the events.
图利克是一名人权工作者，正在纽约市立大学(City University of New York)的新闻学院读研。她拿出手机记录下当时的情况。
“It was nerve-racking to know that the train was coming,” Ms. Tulic said. “Will it stop? Will they succeed to pull him out?”
“想到火车要来了真是让人紧张，”图利克说，“火车会停下来吗？他们能把他拉上来吗？”
Some people ran to the end of the platform to be ready to signal to the train operator. Ms. Gonzalez dashed to what used to be known as the token booth. Workers in the station sent an alert to trains in the area, but power to the track was not shut off, a transit official said.
有些人跑到站台末端，打算给火车司机示意。冈萨雷斯冲向售票亭报告情况。一名公交系统的官员说，车站的工作人员给那个区域的火车发了警报，但车轨没有断电。
On the tracks, the unconscious man was propped to a sitting position by the three men, who then lifted him from below to others who hoisted from above and rolled him onto the platform. Then the rescuers were themselves rescued, hauled back to safety by helping hands. It seemed that as soon as they were all clear, the R train pulled in, slowly, Ms. Peterson said. “People getting off the train walked around this unconscious man on the platform,” she said.
那三个男人把车轨上那个昏迷的男人扶成坐姿，然后从下面把他举起来，站台上的另外几个人把他抬起，放到站台上。然后，很多人伸出援手，把那些救援者也救了上来，拉回安全地带。彼得森说，他们几乎刚被救起来，R线的火车就缓缓驶入车站。“从火车上下来的人绕过站台上这个昏迷的人，”她说。
He was not, however, alone. Among others, two of the men who had jumped onto the platform were holding his hand. “They were saying, ‘Buddy, you’re going to be fine,’” Ms. Tulic said. “This was an additional layer of goodness.”
不过，他不是独自一人。刚跳上站台的救援者中有两位握着他的手。“他们说，‘哥们，你会好的，’”图利克说，“这又是一个善举。”
Paramedics arrived and the man was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center with serious but not life-threatening injuries, officials said.
官员们称，医护辅助人员赶来把那个人送往贝尔维尤医院((Bellevue Hospital Center)，他受了重伤，但没有生命危险。
Ms. Tulic provided her video to Gothamist, and it has been seen more than two million times. One of the men who went onto the tracks, David Tirado, told Rebecca Fishbein of Gothamist that he had visited with the stricken man, who had no recollection of being in the subway or that a congress of strangers had gathered to save him.
图利克把自己拍的视频发布到Gothamist网站上，观看次数达200多万次。大卫·蒂拉多(David Tirado)是跳下铁轨的救人者之一。他对Gothamist网站的丽贝卡·菲什拜因(Rebecca Fishbein)说，他去探望了那个病倒的男人，后者完全不记得自己掉下去，也不记得一群陌生人合力救起了自己。
“That is the greatest thing,” Ms. Tulic said. “The infrastructure in this city of millions is the people themselves providing, being there for others. Without even knowing the person, who he is, no matter what denomination he subscribes to. It was beautiful to see.”
“那就是最美好的事，”图利克说，“出手帮助他人，构成了这座有数百万人口的城市的基础。他们甚至不认识那个人，不知道他是谁，不管他信仰什么宗教。这真是让人觉得美好。”