On the vast lawn of the plaza near the courthouse in Brooklyn where Peter Liang, a former New York City police officer, was convicted in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man just over a week ago, a crowd of several thousand people gathered on Saturday.
周六，数千人聚集在离布鲁克林法院不远的巨大草坪广场上，一周多前，前纽约市警官彼得·梁(Peter Liang)因开枪打死一名未带武器的黑人男子在这个法院被判有罪。
They chanted, “No scapegoat! No scapegoat!” and carried signs bearing the same message. Some said they had never had a reason to protest before, while others said they had taken the day off from work or had come by train and bus from across the city — or as far as New Jersey and Connecticut — to take part in the demonstration at Cadman Plaza Park to show their support for Officer Liang.
人们高呼着“不做替罪羊！不做替罪羊！”的口号，举着写有同样口号的牌子。人群中有的说，他们以前从未有过要抗议的理由，也有人表示，当天虽是他们的工作日，但他们没去上班，而是坐着火车和公交汽车，从城市各处来到这里，还有人从更远的新泽西州和康涅狄格州赶来，参加在卡德曼广场公园的示威活动，以表示他们对梁警官的支持。
Prosecutors had described Officer Liang’s behavior as reckless when he fired his gun inside a public housing complex, and argued that after the man, Akai Gurley, had been shot, the officer seemed more concerned about his career than in helping Mr. Gurley, who was 28.
检察官把梁警官在一座公房住宅楼中开枪的行为描述为鲁莽，并提出论据表示，梁警官在名叫阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)的男子中弹后，似乎更担心自己的职业生涯、而不是帮助28岁的格利。
Yet Officer Liang’s conviction has gripped many in the city’s Chinese-American community, who believe that he had been targeted for prosecution because of his race. They followed the case closely and have been denouncing the jury’s verdict, arguing that Officer Liang, 28, was a victim himself.
然而，梁警官被定罪一事对纽约市华人社区产生了强烈影响，华人社区认为他之所以成为起诉对象，是因为他的种族。人们一直在密切关注他的案子，并已对陪审团的裁决表示谴责，他们认为28岁的梁警官本人也是受害者。
Supporters of Officer Liang noted the strained relationship between the police and African-Americans across the country, after a string of incidents in which unarmed black men were killed by officers, many of whom were never charged.
梁彼得的支持者指出，在整个美国都存在着警察与非裔美国人关系紧张的问题，在一系列警官导致手无寸铁的黑人男子死亡的事件中，很多警官从来都没有受到指控。
Officer Liang, in their view, was the one who had to pay the price. One of the printed announcements for the rally read, “In the wake of so many unfortunate deaths of unarmed black men, some cops gotta hang.” The evidence against Officer Liang, his supporters contend, did not seem as clear-cut compared to the cases of other officers who have not been prosecuted. Some also believed that the gunfire had been an accidental discharge.
在他们眼里，只有梁警官成了不得不付出代价的人。示威活动印制的一份宣传材料上这样写道：“这么多手无寸铁的黑人男子不幸死亡之后，总得有几名警官受惩罚。”梁警官的支持者争辩，给这位警官定罪的证据，与其他未受起诉的警官的相比，似乎并不很明确。有人也认为，开枪是不小心走了火。
“All the policemen have no punishment for all they did,” said Tommy Shi, 30, who lives in Manhattan and works in a restaurant. “Peter Liang is a scapegoat for all this.” He added: “That’s why we stand for Peter Liang.”
“所有的警官都没有因为他们的所做所为而受到惩罚，”30岁的汤米·施(Tommy Shi)说，他家住曼哈顿，在一家餐馆工作。“梁彼得是所有人的替罪羊。”他补充道：“这就是为什么我们支持梁彼得的原因。”
On Feb. 11, Officer Liang was found guilty of manslaughter in the killing of Mr. Gurley on Nov. 20, 2014, while he was on a so-called vertical patrol inside a stairwell at the Louis H. Pink Houses, a public housing complex in the East New York neighborhood of Brooklyn. Officer Liang, who is scheduled to be sentenced on April 14, faces up to 15 years in prison.
2月11日，梁警官被判犯有过失杀人罪，他在2014年11月20日，在位于纽约市东部布鲁克林街区的路易斯·H·品克(Louis H. Pink)公房住宅楼的楼梯井执行所谓的垂直巡逻任务时，开枪打死了格利。梁警官的判刑定于4月14日，他面临的最高刑罚是15年监禁。
The officer slumped in his seat after the jury’s decision was announced, and those feelings of defeat were mirrored by many in the city’s Chinese-American community. In the weeks since then, that sentiment has hardened and spread beyond New York.
陪审团的决定宣布后，梁警官瘫坐在自己的椅子上，这种失败的感觉也让纽约市华人社区中的许多人有同感。在自那以后的几周中，这种情绪已经更加强烈，并已扩散到纽约市以外的地方。
The case has been debated in Chinese-language social media groups, and online fund-raisers have been organized to support Officer Liang and his family. On Saturday, demonstrators planned to assemble next to the Washington Monument in the nation’s capital, outside city halls in Orlando and Philadelphia and inside Balboa Park in San Diego.
中文社交媒体群一直在讨论这个案子，有人为支持梁警官及其家人组织了网上筹款。周六，示威者还计划在其他地方集会，包括在美国首都的华盛顿纪念碑旁，在奥兰多和费城的市政厅外，以及在圣地亚哥市的巴尔波亚公园内。
Gary Wu helped organize a rally in Las Vegas. “What happened there, it seems like an accident,” Mr. Wu, 37, said. “It was a tragedy. We also feel very sorry for the loss of the life of Mr. Gurley, but convicting one of the officers is not fair to the officer.”
加里·吴(Gary Wu)帮助组织了在拉斯维加斯的集会。37岁的吴先生说，“在那个楼里发生的事情看起来像是意外。那是一场悲剧。我们对格利先生的生命损失也深感遗憾。但是只给其中一名警官定罪，对这名警官很不公平。”
Their argument has been met with resistance, both outside and within the Asian-American community, and Saturday’s rally in Brooklyn was met by a counterprotest.
他们的说法在亚裔社区内部和外部也遇到了反对，周六在布鲁克林的集会活动之外，有人进行了反示威。
Soraya Sui Free, 44, a nurse from the Bronx, stood on a median on Cadman Plaza West with a group holding signs with a photograph of Mr. Gurley and the message “Jail Killer Cops.” She criticized the argument, put forth by some of the signs, that Officer Liang was also a victim.
家住布朗克斯的护士、44岁的索拉亚·苏伊·费瑞(Soraya Sui Free)与一群人一起，站在把西卡德曼广场与东广场分开的中线上，他们举着印有格利照片的牌子，还举着写有“监禁杀人警官”字样的标语”。她批评了一些人打出的标语牌上的说法，既梁警官也是一位受害者。
“Where is the empathy?” she said. “Peter Liang made a decision for Akai Gurley, and that decision was to die.”
“还有同情心吗？”她问道。“彼得·梁为阿凯·格利做出了决定，那个决定就是去死吧。”
An organization founded in the 1980s to confront rising violence faced by Asians, now known as Caaav, has supported Mr. Gurley’s family, a move that has drawn threats and harassment. On Friday, a letter signed by dozens of community organizations and elected officials condemned the targeting of the organization.
为对抗日益增长的针对亚裔人的暴力而于20世纪80年代成立的、现名CAAAV的组织，一直在支持格利的家人，其做法引起了一些针对该组织的威胁和骚扰。周五，一封由几十个社区组织和民选官员签名的公开信谴责了针对该组织的言论。
Even if the reaction to Officer Liang’s conviction has stirred animosity, some have embraced the moment, viewing it as a sign that a community perceived by some as unwilling to stand up to authority would mobilize.
尽管对梁警官定罪的反应已经引起人们之间的敌意，但有些人认为这是一个好时刻，他们把抗议视为一个信号，表明这个在有些人眼里对政府逆来顺受的社区会行动起来。
“It’s time that everybody wakes up,” said Jerry Chan, a Brooklyn resident and part of the Coalition of Asian-Americans for Civil Rights, which organized the rally. “Enough is enough. It’s time we should get the same treatment, the same respect, as everyone else.”
“到了大家觉醒的时候了，”布鲁克林居民杰里·陈(Jerry Chan)说，他是亚裔维权大联盟(Coalition of Asian-Americans for Civil Rights)成员，该联盟组织了这次集会。“受够了。我们应该像其他人一样争取同样的待遇、同样的尊重，是时候了。”
Thomas Ong, who retired in 1999 as a detective from the New York Police Department after 20 years of service, said that when he became a police officer the department struggled to forge a relationship with Chinese-American residents.
1999年从纽约警察局退休的托马斯·王曾在局里当过20年的侦探，他说，他当警官后发现，警察局在努力加强与华裔美国居民的关系上有许多困难。
“You should call 911 if you have a problem,” Mr. Ong, now a private investigator, said. “They had to be taught that, because they come from a society that didn’t promote that kind of interaction.”
“如果你有困难，你应该拨打911，”王先生说，他现在是一名私人侦探。“需要教给他们这样做，因为他们来自一个不提倡这种互动的社会。”
Mr. Ong, 64, said the rally demonstrated the progress that has been made over the past three decades, as members of the community saw their relatives and friends joining the force. But Officer Liang’s prosecution also reaffirmed lingering distrust.
现年64岁的王先生说，这次集会表现出，随着华人社区看到他们的亲戚朋友加入到警察行列，情况在过去三十年中有所改善。但是，梁警官的被起诉是对残留的不信任感的再次确定。