Have you ever been on the subway and seen something that you did not quite recognize, something mysteriously unidentifiable?
你在地铁上有没有见到过某种你不太认识的东西——某种神秘的无法辨认的东西？
Well, there is a good chance scientists do not know what it is either.
呃，科学家们很可能也不知道它是什么。
Researchers at Weill Cornell Medical College released a study on Thursday that mapped DNA found in New York’s subway system — a crowded, largely subterranean behemoth that carries 5.5 million riders on an average weekday, and is filled with hundreds of species of bacteria (mostly harmless), the occasional spot of bubonic plague, and a universe of enigmas. Almost half of the DNA found on the system’s surfaces did not match any known organism and just 0.2 percent matched the human genome.
周四，韦尔·康奈尔医学院(Weill Cornell Medical College)的研究者们公布了一项研究，他们绘制了纽约地铁系统的DNA图谱。这个拥挤的地下庞然大物每个工作日平均运送550万乘客，这里有上千种细菌（大多是无害的），偶尔还能找到腺鼠疫的痕迹，这是个谜一般的世界。在纽约地铁系统中发现的DNA中，有近一半与已知的所有微生物都不匹配，只有0.2%与人类的基因组匹配。
“People don’t look at a subway pole and think, ‘It’s teeming with life,’ ” said Dr. Christopher E. Mason, a geneticist at Weill Cornell Medical College and the lead author of the study. “After this study, they may. But I want them to think of it the same way you’d look at a rain forest, and be almost in awe and wonder, effectively, that there are all these species present — and that you’ve been healthy all along.”
“人们看着地铁上的扶手柱，原本不会心想， ‘这上面满是生命，’” 这项研究的主要作者、韦尔·康奈尔医学院的遗传学家克里斯托弗·E·梅森博士(Christopher E. Mason)说，“看完这项研究后，他们可能会开始这样想。但是我想让他们以看待雨林的眼光看待地铁，这里有这么多物种，但是并没有影响你的健康，简直令人敬畏和惊叹。”
Dr. Mason said the inspiration for the study struck about four years ago when he was dropping off his daughter at day care. He watched her explore her new surroundings by happily popping objects into her mouth. As is the custom among tiny children, friendships were made on the floor, by passing back and forth toys that made their way from one mouth to the next.
梅森说，大约四年前，他产生了进行这项研究的想法。当时他把女儿送去日托所。他发现，她探索新环境的方式是高兴地把东西丢到嘴里品尝。小孩子的友谊都是在地板上建立起来的，来回交换玩具，你啃完我啃。
“I couldn’t help thinking, ‘How much is being transferred, and on which kinds of things?’ ” Dr. Mason said. So he considered a place where adults can get a little too close to each other, the subway.
“我忍不住想，‘他们之间究竟传递了哪些东西，又传递了多少？’”梅森说。所以他想到了一个地方，一个成年人可能靠得太近的地方——地铁。 
Thus was the project, called PathoMap, born. Over the past 17 months, a team mainly composed of medical students, graduate students and volunteers fanned out across the city, using nylon swabs to collect DNA, in triplicate, from surfaces that included wooden benches, stairway handrails, seats, doors, poles and turnstiles.
于是，这个被称为PathoMap的项目就诞生了。在过去的17个月中，一个主要由医学院学生、毕业生和志愿者组成的团队在城里四散开来，他们用尼龙签子从木板凳、楼梯扶手、座位、门、柱子和旋转门等各种物体表面收集一式三份的DNA。
In addition to the wealth of mystery DNA — which was not unexpected given that only a few thousand of the world’s genomes have been fully mapped — the study’s other findings reflected New York’s famed diversity, both human and microbial.
除了大量神秘的DNA——这并不令人意外，因为科学家们仅绘制出了几千个基因组——这项研究的其他发现还反映出纽约在人种和微生物方面著名的多样性。
The Bronx was found to be the most diverse borough in terms of microbial species. Brooklyn claimed second place, followed by Manhattan, Queens and Staten Island, where researchers took samples on the Staten Island Railway.
结果发现，从微生物种类角度讲，布朗克斯区最多样化。布鲁克林区排第二，接下来是曼哈顿区、皇后区和斯塔滕岛（研究者是在斯塔滕岛的火车上收集样本的）。
On the human front, Dr. Mason said that, in some cases, the DNA that was found in some subway stations tended to match the neighborhood’s demographic profile. An area with a high concentration of Hispanic residents near Chinatown in Manhattan, for example, yielded a large amount of Hispanic and Asian genes.
梅森博士说，从人的角度讲，在某些情况下，在某些地铁站找到的DNA与其周围的人口情况相符。比如，曼哈顿中国城附近有个西班牙裔聚居区，这里的地铁站里有大量西班牙和亚洲基因。
In an area of Brooklyn to the south of Prospect Park that roughly encompassed the Kensington and Windsor Terrace neighborhoods, the DNA gathered frequently read as British, Tuscan, and Finnish, three groups not generally associated with the borough. Dr. Mason had an explanation for the finding: Scientists have not yet compiled a reliable database of Irish genes, so the many people of Irish descent who live in the area could be the source of DNA known to be shared with other European groups. The study produced some less appetizing news. Live, antibiotic-resistant bacteria were discovered in 27 percent of the collected samples, though among all the bacteria, only 12 percent could be associated with disease. Researchers also found three samples associated with bubonic plague and two with DNA fragments of anthrax, though they noted that none of those samples showed evidence of being alive, and that neither disease had been diagnosed in New York for some time. The presence of anthrax, Dr. Mason said, “is consistent with the many documented cases of anthrax in livestock in New York State and the East Coast broadly.”
布鲁克林区展望公园(Prospect Park)南部主要包括肯辛顿和温莎，这附近收集的DNA大多被解读为英国后裔、托斯卡纳后裔和芬兰后裔，人们通常不会把这三个人群与这个区联系在一起。梅森对这个发现的解释是：科学家们还没有建立起值得信赖的爱尔兰基因数据库，所以住在这里的爱尔兰后裔的DNA可能被误认为是其他欧洲人群的，因为他们的DNA有很多相似之处。这项研究还发现了一些不那么令人愉快的情况。在收集到的样本中，有27%是活性耐药细菌，虽然在收集到的所有细菌中，只有12%与疾病相关。研究者还发现了三个与腺鼠疫相关的样本和两个与炭疽的DNA片段相关的样本，不过他们指出，这些样本都没有活性，有很长一段时间，纽约都没有出现过这两种疾病的确诊案例。梅森说，“纽约州和东海岸有很多记录在案的牲畜炭疽病例”，在纽约地铁上发现炭疽样本“与这一情况吻合”。
The purpose of the study was not simply to satisfy scientific curiosity, the authors said. By cataloging species now, researchers can compare them against samples taken in the future to determine whether certain diseases, or even substances used as bioterrorism weapons, had spread.
这项研究的作者们说，进行这项研究的目的不仅是为了满足科学家们的好奇心。研究者们现在把这些物种归类，将来就可以把它们用作对照样本，以确定某些疾病甚至某些用作生物恐怖主义武器的物质是否已扩散。
City and transit officials did not sound grateful for the examination.
城市和交通官员们似乎并不欢迎这项研究。
“As the study clearly indicates, microbes were found at levels that pose absolutely no danger to human life and health,” Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said in an email. And the city’s health department called the study “deeply flawed” and misleading.
“就像这项研究清楚表明的那样，在物体表面发现的那些微生物对人的生命和健康毫无危害，”纽约大都会运输署发言人凯文·奥尔蒂斯(Kevin Ortiz)在邮件中说。纽约卫生部称这项研究“有重大缺陷”，具有误导性。
Dr. Mason responded by saying he and his team had simply presented their complete results.
梅森对此的回复是，他和他的团队只是呈现出他们的全部研究结果。