After a week in which both the Boston Globe and The Washington Post were purchased by new owners, the publisher of The New York Times Company emphatically declared Wednesday night that his company was not for sale.
在《波士顿环球报》(Boston Globe)和《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)被新东家收购一周之后，纽约时报公司(The New York Times Company)的发行人于周三晚间发布声明称，他不会出售自己的公司。
In a statement, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., chairman of the Times Company, said he and Michael Golden, the vice chairman, had spoken to Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive of The Washington Post Company, about his decision to sell The Post and stressed that The Times did not plan to follow a similar path.
纽约时报公司董事长小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)在声明中表示，他和副董事长迈克尔·戈尔登(Michael Golden)确实就出售《华盛顿邮报》的决定与华盛顿邮报公司(Washington Post Company)董事长兼首席执行官唐纳德·E·格雷厄姆(Donald E. Graham)进行了交谈，同时强调，《纽约时报》并不打算仿效这种做法。
“Will our family seek to sell The Times? The answer to that is no. The Times is not for sale, and the trustees of the Ochs-Sulzberger Trust and the rest of the family are united in our commitment to work together with the company’s board, senior management and employees to lead The New York Times forward into our global and digital future,” the statement said.
声明称，“我们家族会出售《纽约时报》吗？答案是否定的。我们不会出售《纽约时报》，奥克斯-苏兹伯格信托基金(Ochs-Sulzberger Trust)的受托人及家族的其他成员会团结一致，遵守承诺，与公司董事会、高层管理人员及员工携手努力，引领《纽约时报》迈入全球化及数字化未来。”
Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Golden cited The Times’s success with its digital subscription model, its profitability and strong cash flow as reasons the paper was “perfectly able to fund our future growth. The Times has both the ideas and the money to pursue innovation.”
苏兹伯格和戈尔登列举了《纽约时报》数字订阅模式的成功、盈利能力及强劲的现金流，以此证明该报“完全能够为未来的增长提供资金。《纽约时报》拥有追求创新的理念和资金”。
Early Saturday, the Times Company announced its decision to sell the New England Media Group, which includes The Boston Globe, to John W. Henry, owner of the Boston Red Sox, for $70 million. On Monday, The Washington Post Company announced it would sell its flagship newspaper to Amazon.com’s founder, Jeffrey P. Bezos, for $250 million. The sale of The Post by the Graham family, which owned it for 80 years, leaves The Times as the nation’s last major newspaper run by a family.
上周六早间，纽约时报公司宣布了一项决定，把包括《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)在内的新英格兰媒体集团(New England Media Group)以7000万美元价格出售给了波士顿红袜棒球队(Boston Red Sox)所有者约翰·W·亨利(John W. Henry)。本周一，华盛顿邮报公司宣布，它将公司的旗舰报纸以2.5亿美元的价格售予了Amazon.com的创始人杰夫·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)。格雷厄姆家族出售坐拥了80年的《华盛顿邮报》，使得《纽约时报》成为了美国最后一家家族运营的大报。
In an interview published last week in The Daily Beast, Mr. Sulzberger addressed rumors that a media mogul like Mayor Michael Bloomberg might purchase The Times at some point. “Imagine. People talk. What a shock,” Mr. Sulzberger is quoted as saying. “The Times,” he says, slapping his palm on the table, “is Not. For. Sale.”
在“每日野兽”(The Daily Beast)网站上周发表的一篇采访报道中，苏兹伯格驳斥了诸如纽约市长迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael Bloomberg)之类的媒体大亨可能会在某个时候收购《纽约时报》的传言。采访报道引用他的话说，“想象一下。人们议论纷纷。多么令人震惊。”他边说边用手掌拍打桌面，“《纽约时报》绝，不，会，卖。”
In an earnings statement released last Thursday, The Times reported that while it still faced a troubled print advertising market, it swung to a profit in its most recent quarter because of stronger circulation revenue and lower operating costs. The company reported on Thursday that net income rose to $20.1 million, or 13 cents a share, from a loss of $87.6 million, or 58 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
在上周四发布的收益表中，《纽约时报》公布，该报依然面对着一个积重难返的印刷品广告市场，该报在最近的一个季度扭亏为盈，是因为它取得了更强劲的发行收入、压低了运营成本。纽约时报公司于周四公布，公司净利润上涨至2010万美元，或每股净收益13美分，而去年同期，该公司净亏损8760万美元，或每股亏损58美分。
The Times also noted in its release that its strategy to charge customers for accessing content online remained successful. In the second quarter, the number of paid subscribers to the Web site, e-reader and other digital editions of The Times and The International Herald Tribune grew to 699,000, a jump of more than 35 percent from the period a year earlier.
《纽约时报》还在公告里指出，该报向访问在线内容的用户收费的策略依然是成功的。在第二季度，网页版付费订户、电子阅读器订户和《纽约时报》及《国际先驱论坛报》(The International Herald Tribune)的其他电子版订户的人数上涨到了69.9万，比去年同期大幅增长了35%以上。
On Wednesday, the company’s stock price closed down 6 cents, at $12.02.
周三，纽约时报公司的股价报收于12.02美元，下跌了6美分。