Hillary Clinton accused Donald Trump on Monday of imperiling U.S. national security with his campaign rhetoric, as Trump called for police profiling of people from the Muslim world in the aftermath of bombings in New York and New Jersey.
周一，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)指责唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的竞选言论危及美国的国家安全，因为特朗普在纽约和新泽西州相继发生爆炸后要求警方对来自穆斯林世界的人建立档案。
Just around the time the police were closing in on a suspect, Ahmad Khan Rahami — who was later taken into custody — Clinton and Trump were split in their reactions to the attacks in Manhattan on Saturday, which injured dozens. Both shifted into the mode of combat, with Clinton stressing her national security credentials and measuring her words, and Trump sounding a note of furious alarm.
就在警方逼近现已被拘押的嫌疑人艾哈迈德·汗·拉哈米(Ahmad Khan Rahami)前后，克林顿和特朗普对周六曼哈顿导致数十人受伤的袭击做出了不同反应。袭击导致两人都转入战斗模式，克林顿强调自己在国家安全领域的资质，发言时字斟句酌，特朗普的则愤怒地拉响了警报。
But the stakes for both candidates are likely higher now than they have ever been. With seven weeks left until the election and only a week before their first debate, their handling of a potential terrorism plot on U.S. soil could leave a durable imprint on undecided voters.
但对两位候选人来说，现在的利害关系可能比以往任何时候都大。此时距选举还剩七周，距他们的第一场辩论仅剩一周，他们对美国境内潜在的恐怖主义阴谋的应对，可能会给尚未拿定主意的选民留下持久印象。
Clinton moved to take control of the debate with a cutting attack on Trump on Monday: At a morning news conference inside an airport hangar in rainy White Plains, New York, she urged Americans to show “courage and vigilance,” and not to demonize Muslims or Americans of foreign origin.
周一当天，克林顿通过猛烈攻击特朗普控制了辩论：上午，纽约州怀特普莱恩斯下着雨，克林顿在一座机场的机库里举行新闻发布会，敦促美国民众表现出“勇敢和警惕”，不要妖魔化穆斯林或有外国血统的美国人。
And describing herself as the only candidate in the race with experience fighting terrorism, Clinton charged that Trump had helped the Islamic State and other terror groups with his campaign oratory broadly denouncing Muslims.
克林顿称，自己是本届选举中唯一一个有打击恐怖主义经验的候选人。她指责特朗普不加区分地谴责穆斯林的竞选言论对伊斯兰国(Islamic State)和其他恐怖组织起到了帮助作用。
Citing former intelligence and counterterrorism officials who have criticized Trump, Clinton branded the Republican nominee as a “recruiting sergeant for the terrorists.”
克林顿提到了对特朗普持批评意见的前情报和反恐官员，并谴责特朗普是“一个恐怖分子征兵员”。
The Trump campaign responded with expressions of outrage. Jason Miller, a spokesman for Trump, said in a statement that Clinton was effectively “accusing Mr. Trump of treason.” And ahead of a campaign rally in Florida on Monday afternoon, Trump accused Clinton in a Facebook post of having “emboldened terrorists” as secretary of state.
对此，特朗普的竞选团队表示了愤怒。特朗普的发言人贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)在一份声明中表示，克林顿实际上是在“指控特朗普先生叛国”。在周一下午佛罗里达州的竞选集会开始前，特朗普在Facebook上发言指责克林顿在担任国务卿期间“助长了恐怖分子的气焰”。
The eruption of hostilities between the candidates came at the start of a week when both were aiming to cut a presidential profile, and to bolster their credentials on the international stage by meeting with foreign dignitaries in New York for the annual meeting of the United Nations General Assembly.
两名候选人之间的敌意爆发开启了新的一周。在这一周里，两人都想树立起一个总统形象，并通过会见前往纽约出席联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)年度会议的外国要员，来增加自己在国际舞台上的资历。