NEW YORK — The call to Consolidated Edison came at 9:13 a.m. on Wednesday: The smell of gas, detectable the night before, had strengthened around two buildings by 116th Street and Park Avenue in East Harlem.
纽约——爱迪生联合电气公司(Consolidated Edison)在周三上午9:13接到电话：东哈林的第116街和公园大道路口的两座建筑附近有煤气味，昨晚就可以闻到，而且变得更浓了。
Less than 20 minutes later, the buildings were gone, leveled by a tremendous explosion whose tremors could be felt more than a mile away.
不到20分钟后，两座大楼消失了，一场巨大的爆炸将其夷为平地，一英里外（约合1.6公里）都能感觉到震动。
The blast, which city officials said was touched off by a gas leak, killed at least six people and wounded at least two dozen more, including two critically. Rescue workers were searching the rubble from the buildings before dark fell, hoping to find the nine occupants of the buildings still missing by 7 p.m.
市政府官员称爆炸是煤气泄漏引起的，目前已经导致至少六人丧生，20多人受伤，其中两人伤势严重。救援人员赶在天黑前在瓦砾中进行了搜寻，希望能找到至晚上7点前仍失踪的九名居民。
The explosion blew out windows in surrounding buildings and sent debris crashing onto nearby streets. People were trapped in their cars, in the rubble and in neighboring apartments. Others rushed toward the towering plume of flames and smoke, making desperate rescue attempts.
爆炸导致周围建筑物窗户破碎，瓦砾飞到了附近的街道上。有人被困在汽车、废墟和隔壁的公寓里。还有的向浓烟滚滚的火场奔去，不顾一切地尝试救援。
There was little warning, certainly not enough to have safely evacuated the area, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference, near where the buildings once stood at 1644 and 1646 Park Avenue. “This is a tragedy of the worst kind because there was no indication in time to save people,” he said, warning that the search “will take quite a bit of time.”
市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在这两栋建筑的原址——公园大道1644号和1646号附近召开了新闻发布会，他说事发前没有什么预警，至少肯定不足以让人有时间安全撤离那个区域。“像这样的惨剧是最糟糕的，因为没有征兆，没时间救人，”他说，并提醒人们，搜寻工作“会持续相当一段时间”。
The cause of the gas leak remained unclear on Wednesday night as a team from the National Transportation Safety Board, which oversees pipeline safety, arrived to help investigate.
负责管道安全监管的国家交通安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)在周三晚上派出一个小组到达现场协助调查，但煤气泄漏的原因尚未查明。
Jennifer Salas and her husband, Jordy Salas, lived at 1644 Park Avenue; she said on Wednesday that her husband and the couple’s dog were in their apartment at the time of the collapse, and were still missing.
珍妮佛·萨拉斯(Jennifer Salas)和她的丈夫乔迪·萨拉斯(Jordy Salas)住在公园大道1644号；她说在大楼倒塌时，她的丈夫和两人的狗在公寓里，至今生死不明。
Through tears, Ms. Salas, who is pregnant, begged firefighters to find her husband.
怀有身孕的萨拉斯哭着乞求消防队员寻找她的丈夫。
The couple were among several neighbors who said that they had detected a gaslike odor before, but that it seemed to worsen on Tuesday night.
两夫妇和多位邻居都表示此前曾闻到类似煤气的味道，但这种情况在周二晚间似乎恶化了。
“Last night it smelled like gas, but then the smell vanished and we all went to sleep,” she said.
“昨晚闻起来像煤气，但是气味接着又没了，我们就都去睡了，”她说。
Another couple, Shavonne Cano and her fiancé, Corey Louire, said they also smelled gas on Tuesday night, and slept with a window open. When the gas was still noticeable in the morning, they called Con Edison.
另一对夫妇，莎沃恩·卡诺(Shavonne Cano)和未婚夫科利·鲁伊尔(Corey Louire)也说在周二晚上闻到了煤气，睡觉时还把一扇窗户打开了。第二天早上他们还是能闻到气味，因此给爱迪生联合打了电话。
Mr. Louire said he was told not to turn on a cellphone or anything else, and to leave the apartment and the building, at 1652 Park Avenue. He was in the lobby when he heard the explosion.
鲁伊尔说对方叫他不要打开手机或其他任何东西，并离开在公园大道1652号的公寓和大楼。听到爆炸声时他正在大楼的门厅里。
Elizabeth Matthews, a spokeswoman for the utility, confirmed that a customer at 1652 Park Avenue called to report a heavy gas odor at 9:13 a.m. Two minutes later, two Con Ed crews were dispatched, and they arrived just after the explosion.
爱迪生联合女发言人伊丽莎白·马修斯(Elizabeth Matthews)确认在上午9:13接到过公园大道1652号一名顾客打来的电话，报告有浓重的煤气味。爱迪生联合的两个小组两分钟后被派出，刚好在爆炸发生后到达。
The Fire Department said it received the first report of a fire at 9:31 a.m., and discovered on arriving two minutes later that the buildings had collapsed. There were a total of 15 apartments in the two buildings; one had a church on the ground floor, and the other had a piano store.
消防局(Fire Department)称他们在上午9:31接到了第一个火警，两分钟后到达现场发现建筑物已经倒塌。两座大楼共有15间公寓；其中一座在一楼有一间教堂，另一座有一家钢琴店。
The buildings were five stories and about 55 feet tall, according to Buildings Department records.
根据楼宇局(Buildings Department)的记录，两座建筑都是五层楼，约55英尺高。
The injured were taken to several area hospitals; most were treated and released. Officials said 13 people went to Harlem Hospital Center, including a 15-year-old boy in critical condition; 22 people at Mount Sinai Hospital, including a woman in critical condition with head trauma; and 18 at Metropolitan Hospital Center, all with minor injuries.
伤员已被送往附近多家医院；其中多数在接受治疗后出院。官方称有13人被送往哈林医疗中心(Harlem Hospital Center)，包括一名伤势危急的15岁男孩；22人被送往西奈山医院(Mount Sinai Hospital)，包括一名有头部创伤的女性重伤员；18人被送往大都会医疗中心(Metropolitan Hospital Center)，全部是轻伤。
Later in the day, some corners of the neighborhood had returned to normal: families walking dogs; music from a passing car or, occasionally, a passer-by; young professionals in hospital scrubs, clutching cups of coffee from the bodegas near the elevated Park Avenue train tracks.
当天晚些时候，附近的一些街角已经恢复正常：一家人在遛狗；路过的汽车里——偶尔还有行人的身上——传来音乐；年轻的医护人员身着医院制服，手里拿着公园大道高架铁路边的小店买来的咖啡。