After retiring from his job as a security guard in 2011, Wahid Ali spent his days struggling against tedium. Speaking only limited English and with few friends, he had little to do and mainly stayed at home, a small rented room in an illegal basement apartment in Coney Island.
瓦希德·阿里(Wahid Ali)2011年从保安岗位退休之后，经常都在跟无聊做斗争。他能说的英语不多，朋友寥寥无几，他几乎无事可做，主要是待在家里。而他的家，是在纽约康尼岛一套非法地下室公寓的一间小出租屋里。
But the tougher fight was financial. Mr. Ali, 78, had meager savings, and his wife had not worked since they immigrated to the United States from Pakistan in 2006. So the couple depended on his monthly Social Security check of less than $600.
但更艰难的斗争是在经济方面。阿里现年78岁，积蓄微薄，2006年他和妻子从巴基斯坦移民到美国之后，妻子就一直没有工作。所以，现在夫妻俩就靠他每月不足600美元的社保金支票度日。
“It was extremely difficult,” he said, especially putting enough food on the table.
“日子过得艰难无比。”他说，尤其是难以保证三餐周全。
These are increasingly familiar concerns within New York City’s growing immigrant population.
在纽约市日益增多的移民中，这样的担忧正在变得更加普遍。
As is the case in the rest of the country, the city’s residents are skewing older. Yet a new study, released Thursday, reveals that immigrants are the driving force behind this trend, posing enormous challenges to local government agencies and social service organizations.
跟美国其他地方一样，纽约市的居民也在日趋老龄化。然而，周四公布的一项新的研究显示，移民是这种趋势背后的驱动力。这给纽约政府机构和社会服务组织带来了巨大挑战。
From 2000 to 2010, the number of immigrants in the city aged 65 and older increased by about 30 percent while the corresponding native-born population dropped by 9 percent, according to the study by the Center for an Urban Future, an independent research organization in New York.
纽约独立研究机构“城市未来中心”(Center for an Urban Future)的研究显示：从2000年到2010年，该市65岁及以上的移民数量增加了约30％，而在这个年龄层上的原住民减少了9％。
The foreign-born now represent 46 percent of the city’s population aged 65 and older, a proportion far higher than their share of the city’s overall population (37 percent).
在纽约市65岁以上的人口中，外国移民占了46％，这一比例远远高于移民在该市整体人口的占比(37％)。
“I think it’s the biggest demographic trend that nobody is talking about,” said Jonathan Bowles, the center’s executive director.
“我认为这是最主要的一个人口组成发展趋势，但没有人在关注，”城市未来中心总干事乔纳森·鲍尔斯(Jonathan Bowles)说。
Besides being one of the fastest-growing demographic groups, older immigrants are also among the most vulnerable. “Many in this group are not only poised to strain the social safety net but fall through it entirely,” the study said.
老年移民不仅是人口增长最快的，也是最脆弱的群体之一。这项研究称，“很多老年移民不仅加重了社会保障负担，还彻底掉出了保障的范围。”
On average, older immigrants have far lower incomes and far smaller retirement savings than older native-born residents, and they receive fewer benefits from entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security. Nearly 24 percent of all older immigrants in the city live in poverty, compared with 15 percent of their native-born counterparts, the study said.
平均而言，跟老年本地居民相比，老年移民的收入远远更低，退休储蓄远远更少，而且也较少从医疗保险和社会保障等福利项目中获益。该研究称，在纽约的所有老年移民中，有将近24％生活在贫困中，而本地老人中这个比例只有15％。
Immigrants tend to earn significantly less over the course of their working lives than native-born people and therefore receive less in benefits from Social Security, and many do not qualify at all for the program or have not enrolled, the study said.
该研究称，在退休之前，移民的收入往往比本地人少得多，因此他们在社会保障体系中享受的待遇也就比较低，而且很多人根本没有资格参加社保，或者没有去社保登记。
Kit Fong Lee, 74, who volunteers at a senior center in Lower Manhattan run by the Hamilton-Madison House, said the center’s clients, most of whom are Chinese immigrants, received Social Security benefits of, on average, about $600 a month, around half the national average. Some clients scrape by collecting soda cans on the street, she said, or by relying on relatives.
李洁芳（Kit Fong Lee，音译）现年74岁，在下曼哈顿汉密尔顿-麦迪逊社区中心(Hamilton-Madison House)开办的一个老人中心当志愿者，她说这里的老人大部分都是中国移民，他们的社保福利每人每月平均约600美元，是全美平均水平的大约一半。她说，中心里有些老人在街上捡易拉罐换钱，或是依靠亲友资助勉强度日。
ILanguage obstacles conspire with a lack of education and cultural barriers to keep many older immigrants from finding out about, and seeking help from, government agencies and community-based advocacy groups.
语言障碍、缺乏教育、以及文化壁垒，让很多老年移民难以了解政府机构和基于社区的倡导者组织，并从他们那里寻求帮助。
Last year, Mr. Ali found some relief from his struggles at the Council of Peoples Organization, a community group focused on South Asian Muslims that had opened a senior center at its office in Midwood, Brooklyn. He now spends his days there, eating free meals, making friends, watching Pakistani satellite television programs and “hanging out,” he said through an interpreter. The center has also helped him and his wife apply for additional government assistance and get medical help.
去年，在南亚穆斯林社区组织“人民组织理事会”(Council of Peoples Organization)的帮助下，阿里的困难得到了一定的缓解。该组织在其布鲁克林米德伍德的办公室里开设了一个老人中心。现在，阿里白天呆在这里，享用免费食物，结交朋友，观看巴基斯坦卫星电视节目，“就是混着，”他通过翻译告诉记者。该中心还帮助他和妻子申请了额外的政府援助，获取医疗服务。
The organization’s executive director, Mohammad Razvi, said the center opened last year after clients began asking if they could take some of the canned food that had been donated for disaster relief in Pakistan.
该组织总干事穆罕默德·拉兹维(Mohammad Razvi)说，之前有一些老人询问他们，是否可以拿走一些捐赠给巴基斯坦救灾活动的罐头食品，所以他们去年开设了这个老人中心。
With its extensive public transportation networks, concentration of health care centers, array of immigrant enclaves and proliferation of immigrants’ services groups, New York City can be a relatively accommodating place for immigrants to grow old.
纽约有发达的公共交通网络，集中的医疗保健中心，大批移民聚居地，以及各种移民服务团体，相对来说是一个适合移民养老的地方。
Yet in interviews, advocates for older immigrants said that the needs of the population were far from being met and that more financing, from both public and private sources, was needed to meet current, and especially future, demand.
但是在采访中，老年移民权利倡导者说，老年移民的需求远远没有得到满足，他们需要更多来自公共和私人渠道的资金，以满足现在、尤其是未来的需求。
There are now at least 463,000 immigrants aged 65 and older living in New York City, the largest population of its kind in any city in the United States, according to the report, which was based in part on census data.
这份报告称，纽约市65岁及以上的移民现在有至少46.3万，比美国任何一个其他城市都多。该报告部分使用了人口普查数据。
The growth is largely attributable to the aging of the people who arrived in the United States during the 1980s and 1990s, decades that saw a sharp increase in immigration, Mr. Bowles said.
出现这样的增长，主要是20世纪80年代和90年代移民美国的人口老龄化所致，鲍尔斯说，在那段时期，移民的人数急剧增加。
Among the array of challenges that these immigrants now face, poverty arguably looms largest; about two out of every three elderly people in New York living below the poverty line are immigrants, the study said.
这些移民现在面临着一系列挑战，贫困可以说是其中最大的一个；该研究称，每三个纽约老年移民中，大约就有两个生活在贫困线以下。
The most significant barrier preventing older immigrants from taking advantage of social services in the city is their inability to communicate with service providers in a language they know well, the study asserted.
这项研究称，阻碍老年移民享受纽约市社会服务的最大障碍， 是他们无法用自己熟悉的语言跟服务提供方沟通。
“When I go to Manhattan, I can sometimes get lost,” Soon Kim, 88, said through an interpreter. “When I get sick I can’t describe how sick I am.” For 26 years, Ms. Kim has been a regular at a senior center in Corona, Queens, run by Korean Community Services of Metropolitan New York.
“去曼哈顿的时候，我偶尔会迷路，”88岁的金顺(Soon Kim，音译)通过翻译说。“我生病的时候，也没法描述病情。”在过去的26年中，金顺已经成为了纽约都会区韩国社区服务组织(Korean Community Services)在皇后区科罗纳开办的老人中心的一名常客。
Language barriers can lead to social isolation, advocates said, which in turn can lead to mental illness and suicide.
倡导者们说，语言障碍可能会造成社会隔离，而社会隔离又可能会导致精神疾病和自杀。