On Monday night, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s annual Costume Institute gala, there were ball gowns, leg slits, white ties and trains. Lots of trains.
周一晚上，在大都会艺术博物馆的服装学院年度庆典上，我们看到了很多长礼服、高开叉裙、全套男士晚礼服和拖裙。很多的拖裙。
“The Met Gala is that one event where you can be artistic as you want when it comes to fashion,” said the actress Zoe Saldana, in a dress by Michael Kors. “You don’t have to worry about hit-or-miss. You just enjoy the artistry of the fashion.”
“为大都会庆典挑选服装时，你想怎么艺术化就可以怎么艺术化，”身穿迈克高仕(Michael Kors)晚装的女演员佐伊·索尔达娜(Zoe Saldana)说，“你不用担心合不合适。你只管享受服装的艺术性就好了。”
And plenty did. There was Rihanna in a white crop top and puckered skirt from Stella McCartney and Beyoncé in a plunging V-neck, long-sleeve gown from Givenchy, complete with a veil over her head. Sarah Jessica Parker, meanwhile, went for an Oscar de la Renta ensemble that included the designer’s signature on the back of her dress.
很多人是这么做的。蕾哈娜(Rihanna)身穿史黛拉·麦卡特尼(Stella McCartney)白色斜切上衣和皱裙，碧昂斯(Beyoncé)身穿纪梵希(Givenchy)深V领长袖晚礼服，头戴面纱。莎拉·杰西卡·帕克(Sarah Jessica Parker)选择了奥斯卡·德拉伦塔(Oscar de la Renta)的套装，礼服背后有这位设计师的签名。
The gala this year honored the British-born designer Charles James, who revolutionized American fashion in the mid-20th century, and the longtime Vogue editor Anna Wintour.
今年的庆典向英国出生的设计师查尔斯·詹姆斯(Charles James)——他在20世纪中期彻底颠覆了美国服装——以及《Vogue》的资深编辑安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)致敬。
“Last year’s theme was punk and that was so wild and fantastic, but you’re going to see a very refined look tonight,” said the model Karen Elson. “Charles James defines taste and elegance.”
“去年的主题是朋克，所以非常狂野、古怪，但是今晚你会看到非常优雅的造型，”模特凯伦·艾尔森(Karen Elson)说，“查尔斯·詹姆斯是品味与优雅的代表。”
It was all very elegant, and it wasn’t just the women. Men finally had a tricky assignment: Dress in white tie, which includes tails, silk socks and pumps.
所有的人都很优雅，不只是女人。男人们终于碰到了棘手的要求：要穿全套正式晚礼服，包括燕尾服、丝绸短袜和正装皮鞋。
“I love men looking like gentlemen,” said the Bravo television personality Andy Cohen, wearing Ralph Lauren and accompanying Ms. Parker. “I like that we can all pretend to be gentlemen for the night.”
“我很喜欢男人们看起来像绅士，”精彩(Bravo)电视台的红人安迪·科恩(Andy Cohen)说。他身穿拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)晚礼服，和帕克一起入场。“我喜欢这一晚我们都可以打扮成绅士。”
But some were not that brave.
但是有些人没那么勇敢。
“I tried the tails on and I couldn’t do it,” said Mr. Kors, in a white tie. “I did it once in the ’80s, and I felt like when I’m silver-haired, I’ll go back to tails.”
“我试了试燕尾服，发现我穿不出去，”高仕说。他戴着白领结。“我在80年代穿过一次。我觉得等我头发白了，我会再穿燕尾服。”
Others were equally mixed.
其他人也同样纠结。
“I’m trying to count how many people are wearing tuxedos and how many are wearing tails,” said the designer Derek Lam, a little anxiously, from the top of the steps at the Met, in a tuxedo. “Obviously I don’t have tails.”
“我想数一数多少人穿无尾礼服，多少人穿燕尾服，”设计师德里克·兰姆(Derek Lam)站在大都会博物馆台阶的最上面说。他身穿无尾礼服，有点不安。“很明显我没有燕尾服。”
Neither did the design boys from Proenza Schouler.
普罗恩萨·施罗(Proenza Schouler)的两位年轻设计师也没有。
“We thought about it,” the designer Jack McCollough said. “They were too shortening.”
“我们考虑过穿燕尾服，”设计师杰克·麦考卢(Jack McCollough)说，“但是它们太显个矮了。”
“I prefer myself in a black tie,” Lazaro Hernandez said. “We called Anna and told her. She gave us her blessing.”
“我还是更喜欢穿无尾礼服，”乐扎罗·赫南德斯(Lazaro Hernandez)说，“我们给安娜打电话跟她说了我们的决定。她祝我们好运。”
Smart decision, especially since this was also Ms. Wintour’s big moment. Earlier in the day, she was honored in the Temple of Dendur at the Met at a dedication ceremony for the Costume Institute’s newly renamed Anna Wintour Costume Center. The event featured an army of heavy hitters in the fashion world, including Ralph Lauren, Donatella Versace, Mr. de la Renta and Raf Simons. It was a sign of Ms. Wintour’s power that she could get designers to make a trip to the museum for a day-night doubleheader.
聪明的决定，特别是考虑到这也是温图尔的重要时刻。当天早些时候，在大都会博物馆丹铎神庙举办的时装学院新命名的安娜·温图尔服装中心的揭幕典礼上，她得到了特别赞美。时装界的很多重要人物出席了这场活动，包括拉夫·劳伦、多纳泰拉·范思哲(Donatella Versace)、德拉伦塔和拉夫·西蒙(Raf Simons)。这显示了温图尔的影响力，她能让设计师们白天和晚上两次参加该博物馆的活动。
Michelle Obama cut the ribbon at the ceremony. “Two first ladies in one room at the same time,” Marc Jacobs observed.
米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)为典礼剪彩。“两位第一夫人在同一时间出现在同一个房间，”马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)这样评论。
“Now, I know Anna hates being the center of attention,” said Mrs. Obama, who wore an embroidered Naeem Khan dress. “So this is all probably killing her, but we love it. But the truth is I’m here today because of Anna. I’m here because I have such admiration and respect for this woman who I’m proud to call my friend.”
“现在，我知道安娜不喜欢成为关注的焦点，”奥巴马夫人说。她身穿纳伊姆·汗(Naeem Khan)刺绣连衣裙。“所以，这很可能让她很难受，但是我们很喜欢。不过我今天来这里是因为安娜。我来这里是因为我十分欣赏、尊敬这个女人，能称她为我的朋友是我的骄傲。”
Fashion eminences along with Condé Nast editors and executives arrived almost an hour early for the event. And they were not short in praise for Ms. Wintour. “She’s done a lot for American fashion and for fashion all around the world,” Mr. Lauren said. “She’s smart and she gets the job done.”
时装界的名人以及康泰纳仕的编辑和高管们差不多提前一小时来到活动现场。他们对温图尔赞不绝口。“她为美国以及世界各地的服装做出了很大贡献，”劳伦说，“她很聪明，而且工作出色。”
After Mrs. Obama cut the ribbon, what felt like the entire fashion world joined in a standing ovation for the Vogue editor. Ms. Wintour appeared to show some unexpected emotion.
奥巴马夫人剪彩之后，感觉整个时装界都在为这位《Vogue》编辑长时间起立鼓掌。温图尔似乎表现出了意想不到的激动。