The roads may soon teem with miles of new bike lanes, made possible by Michael R. Bloomberg. In Turkey.
街道中很快会出现大量新建的自行车道，由迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)一手促成。这是在土耳其。
High-capacity buses zip through exclusive traffic corridors, part of Mr. Bloomberg’s bet that better public transit options will discourage private car use. In Brazil and Mexico.
大载客量的巴士在公交专用道上呼啸而过，这跟布隆伯格的设想有关，他认为提供更好的公共交通选择可以减少私家车的使用。这是在巴西和墨西哥。
And in Egypt, between the uprisings in the streets, speed-tracking cameras were hung along the Ring Road of Cairo. They resemble the ones expected to reach New York City, eventually, under a bill approved in Albany last month.
在埃及，开罗环路沿线趁着街头暴乱的间隙安装了测速探头，看上去跟最终将在纽约市安装的那种差不多，安装探头的提案上个月刚在奥尔巴尼得到通过。
Though often hamstrung at home by headstrong state lawmakers, an entrenched taxi industry and a city in which even a single bike lane can inspire years of litigation, Mr. Bloomberg has found success overseas in pushing — and financing — a global transportation agenda during his final years as the mayor of New York City.
尽管在自家地盘举步维艰，经常受到刚愎自用的州议员和盘根错节的出租车产业的阻挠，哪怕加一条自行车道都要打上几年的官司，但布隆伯格在担任纽约市长的最后几年里宣传——和注资——的全球交通愿景，在海外取得了成功。
Since 2007, Mr. Bloomberg’s charitable foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies, has committed more than $130 million toward traffic policy and road safety worldwide, outstripping donations for every cause except the reduction of tobacco use.
自2007年以来，他的布隆伯格慈善基金会(Bloomberg Philanthropies)在全球交通政策和道路安全领域承诺的捐款已经达到逾1.3亿美元（约合8亿人民币），超过了除减少烟草使用以外的所有其他慈善事业。
He has personally presented children with yellow riding helmets in Hanoi, Vietnam, smiling through a helmeted song-and-dance number from students at the Nam Trung Yen school, and helped assemble a fleet of auto-rickshaws in Rajkot, India.  In Suzhou, China — where more than half of road-traffic hospitalizations were attributable to electric bike crashes, according to his foundation — program officials helped draft new electric bike regulations.
他本人亲自在越南河内向孩子们馈赠了黄色的骑行头盔，在南中安(Nam Trung Yen)学校微笑着看了一场戴着头盔的歌舞演出，帮助印度拉杰果德组建了一支机动三轮车队。在中国苏州——据他的基金会称，这座城市因交通事故受伤入院的案例中，有一半以上是电动自行车事故——基金会的项目官员参与起草了一份新的电动自行车规定。
And he has lobbied successfully to drive down the legal blood-alcohol limit in Guadalajara, Mexico — where “tequila and roads just don’t mix,” he said in 2011 — and armed police in Cambodia with Breathalyzer equipment.
他还成功地游说墨西哥瓜达拉哈拉的地方政府——他在2011年说，那里的“龙舌兰酒和马路不搭调”——降低了血液酒精浓度的法定限值，并为柬埔寨警察配备了呼吸测醉器。
As a result, traffic policy and public health experts say, Mr. Bloomberg has emerged as perhaps the world’s leading transportation force, acting as a catalyst abroad for helmets, seat belts and slower speeds at the same time that bright blue bikes and pedestrian plazas have been affixed to his local legacy.
交通政策和公共卫生专家说，这样一来布隆伯格可能已经在交通领域成为了全球首屈一指的人物，在国外推广头盔、安全带和限速，同时也把宝蓝色的自行车、步行广场纳入了他在本地留下的政治遗产。
“We have never seen anything like this,” said Dr. Etienne Krug, the director of the World Health Organization’s Department of Violence and Injury Prevention and Disability. “This is by far the largest international road safety project ever.”
“这些是前所未见的，”世界卫生组织暴力与伤害预防及残疾司(World Health Organization’s Department of Violence and Injury Prevention and Disability)司长艾蒂安·克鲁格(Etienne Krug)说。“这是有史以来最大的国际道路安全工程。”
As a global cause, traffic safety is of a piece with Mr. Bloomberg’s past public health pushes — from a proposed ban on large sodas in New York to his bid to improve maternal welfare in Tanzania. He hopes to prod as much change as possible as quickly as possible, current and former advisers say, displaying two of his hallmark qualities: impatience and a thirst for wide-scale influence.
作为一项全球事业，交通安全和布隆伯格以往的公共卫生倡议活动是一致的，后者包括在纽约提议禁售大瓶装汽水和改善坦桑尼亚妇女生育福利状况等努力。几位现任和前任顾问都说，他希望在尽可能短的时间里促成尽可能多的改变，显示出他的两个鲜明的性格特征：急于求成和对获得广泛影响力的渴望。
Without intervention, traffic crashes would become the fifth leading cause of death by 2030, according to the World Health Organization. Mr. Bloomberg’s charity has focused on many large cities, and on 10 countries — including China, India and Russia — that account for roughly half of the world’s road-related deaths.
据世界卫生组织的预测，如果不加干预，到2030年交通事故将成为排名第五的死亡原因。布隆伯格的慈善事业主要集中在许多大城市，分布在10个国家里——其中包括中国、印度和俄罗斯——全球与道路相关的死亡有大约一半出自这些国家。
“We’re not as rich as you guys in New York,” said Eduardo Paes, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, where Mr. Bloomberg is aiding the installation of four new bus rapid transit corridors in preparation for the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics.
里约热内卢市长爱德华多·帕埃斯(Eduardo Paes)说，“我们可不像你们纽约一样有钱。”布隆伯格正在帮助这里设立四条新的快速公交走廊，以为2014年世界杯(World Cup)和2016年奥运会(Olympics)做好准备。
Mr. Bloomberg’s example is so rousing that Rio de Janeiro has elected to lift other ideas from New York without a dollar of his help, Mr. Paes said. He noted plans for a large bike lane expansion and the use of an information hot line, 1746, modeled on Mr. Bloomberg’s 311 system.
布隆伯格的示范十分激动人心，因此里约热内卢也选择效仿纽约的其他点子，且一分钱他的帮助都不需要，帕埃斯说。他提到，里约热内卢计划大规模拓展自行车道，并启用信息热线1746，这条热线是仿照布隆伯格推行的311热线系统建立的。
In New York, though, Mr. Bloomberg often has been stymied on matters of transportation. The state controls the subways. His pitch for congestion-based pricing languished. A plan for a near-uniform fleet of yellow taxis — the first major redesign since the age of the Checker cab — was invalidated in court, though the city passed a new set of rules last month in the hopes of reviving it.
然而在纽约，布隆伯格在交通问题上却常常遭遇阻碍。地铁由州政府管辖。他提倡的根据拥堵程度定价也困难重重。一项推出几乎整齐划一的黄色出租车车队的计划，也被法庭判决无效，该计划是恰克尔出租车(Checker cab)投入使用以来，首次大规模重新设计。不过上个月，纽约市推出了一系列新规则，以期恢复该计划。
At times, his frustration has shown. In May, according to a lawsuit brought against Mr. Bloomberg by one of the plaintiffs in the taxi case, Mr. Bloomberg threatened, “When I am out of office, I will destroy your industry,” adding an expletive, during an altercation at a Knicks game. (Mr. Bloomberg initially said that he did not recall the conversation, but he seemed to allude to the episode on his radio show days before the suit was filed.)
有时候，他也会表现出自己的不满。出租车案件中的一名原告向布隆伯格提起诉讼，该项诉讼显示，5月在尼克斯队(Knicks)一场比赛期间发生口角时，布隆伯格威胁道，“我一离任，就要搞垮你们的行业。”当时布隆伯格还加了一句脏话。（布隆伯格最初表示，他回忆不起这段对话，但在案件起诉前数天，他似乎曾在广播节目中暗示过这段谈话。）
While the mayor’s philanthropy has hit the occasional roadblock abroad, some stumbles have been understandable. 
尽管市长的慈善举动在海外偶尔会遇到障碍，但有一些磕绊是意料之中的。
In India, where Mr. Bloomberg’s team has evaluated 2,600 miles of high-risk roads for potential safety improvements, helmet laws have proved difficult to enforce without setting off religious tensions, Dr. Krug said. In communities with large Sikh populations, some locals have interpreted the laws as discriminatory against those who wear turbans.
在印度，布隆伯格的团队评估了2600英里可能需要改善安全状况的高危路段。克鲁格说，要求戴头盔的法律经常造成宗教关系的紧张，因而很难执行。在拥有大量锡克教徒的社区，当地人会把这些法律解读为对戴头巾的人有歧视意味。
But across many regions, Mr. Bloomberg has made strides quickly. In Vietnam, motorcycle helmet use has more than doubled, to 90 percent, since Mr. Bloomberg and the foundation’s partners helped pass a national helmet law.
然而在很多地区，布隆伯格的步伐迈得很快。在越南，由于布隆伯格和该基金会的合作伙伴帮助通过了一项要求戴头盔的全国性法律，摩托车头盔的使用率增加了一倍还多，达到90%。
The foundation estimates that its efforts will save at least 13,000 lives over a five-year period.
基金会估计，其努力在五年时间里能挽救至少1.3万人的生命。
For Mr. Bloomberg, the work has supplied a useful credential to cite during local disputes, like the tussle over helmet use for the new bike-share program in New York. The administration once supported a mandatory helmet law for cyclists, but has since resisted calls to require helmets. (Officials have said that mandating helmets depresses ridership.)
对于布隆伯格来说，这项工作为他提供了有用的成就，可以在本地遇到争议时拿来展示，例如就纽约新的公用自行车计划是否佩戴头盔而产生的争执。政府曾对一项强制要求骑车者佩戴头盔的法律表示支持，但之后就抵制了要求戴头盔的呼声。（官员表示强制戴头盔会抑制骑车人数。）
Questioned last year about the stance, the mayor produced his trump card: “Well, look,” he said, “keep in mind my foundation works on traffic safety.”
去年在被问及相关立场时，市长拿出了一个有力的论据。“哎，你看，”他说，“要记住我的基金会关注的就是交通安全。”