A would-be suicide bomber detonated a pipe bomb strapped to his body in the heart of Manhattan’s busiest subway corridor, rending the early Monday commute with a blast that reverberated up through city’s sidewalks, caused transit chaos and terrified thousands of travelers who fled headlong through tunnels choked with smoke.
周一一早上班时分，在曼哈顿最繁忙的地铁通道中央，一名自杀式炸弹袭击者引爆了身上的一枚管状土制炸弹。爆炸声在该市的道路上回荡，造成交通混乱并使数千名乘客受到惊吓，在烟雾弥漫的隧道里仓皇奔逃。
He chose the location because of its Christmas-themed posters, recalling strikes in Europe against Christmas markets, he told investigators, and set off his bomb in retaliation for U.S. airstrikes on ISIS targets in Syria and elsewhere, several law enforcement officials said.
多名执法官员说，他告诉调查人员，选择这个位置是因为那里的圣诞节主题海报，让人想起欧洲圣诞集市遭受的袭击，并且他引爆炸弹是为了报复美国对叙利亚和其他地方的伊斯兰国(ISIS)目标进行的空袭。
But his makeshift weapon sputtered. The attacker himself was the only one seriously injured.
但他的土炸弹未能成功。袭击者自己是唯一的重伤者。
A suspect, identified by the police as Akayed Ullah, 27, an immigrant from Bangladesh who lived in Brooklyn, was in police custody. He suffered burns to his hands and abdomen, and was at Bellevue Hospital Center, according to Daniel A. Nigro, the commissioner of the New York Fire Department. Three other people had minor injuries, he said.
警方称，嫌疑人是27岁的孟加拉国移民阿卡伊·乌拉(Akayed Ullah)，住在布鲁克林，现已被警方控制。据纽约消防局局长丹尼尔·A·尼格罗(Daniel A. Nigro)介绍，乌拉双手和腹部烧伤，正在贝尔维尤医院(Bellevue Hospital Center)接受治疗。他说，另有三人轻伤。
The attack, at 7:20 a.m., occurred in a long pedestrian walkway connecting the Eighth Avenue, Seventh Avenue and Broadway subway lines. Walking among the commuters trudging beneath Times Square was a man in a hooded sweatshirt. Then a deafening boom — from him — and then smoke.
袭击发生在早上7点20分，地点是在一条长长的人行通道上。该通道连接着第八大道、第七大道和百老汇地铁线。走在时报广场下面的上班族中，有一名身着连帽厚运动衫的男子。之后，从他那里发出了一声震耳欲聋的轰隆声，接着烟雾弥漫。
Then everyone ran.
然后，所有人都跑了起来。
Mr. Ullah had attached the pipe bomb to himself with a “combination of Velcro and zip ties,” said James P. O’Neill, the commissioner of the New York Police Department. The secure fastening may have indicated that Mr. Ullah entered the subway intending to carry out a suicide bombing.
纽约警察局局长詹姆斯·P·奥尼尔(James P. O'Neill)说，乌拉用“维可牢搭扣和束线带”把管状土炸弹绑在了自己身上。牢固的捆绑表明，乌拉进地铁就是为了进行自杀式炸弹袭击。
At a news conference on Eighth Avenue just outside the Port Authority, the police displayed a picture of Mr. Ullah that appeared to have been taken inside the subway walkway after the blast. In it, he is curled in a fetal position; his exposed stomach is blackened.
在港务局(Port Authority)外面的第八大道举行的新闻发布会上，警方展示了乌拉的一张照片。照片似乎是爆炸发生后在那条地铁通道上拍摄的。照片中，他缩成了胎儿的姿势，暴露出来的腹部是黑色的。
Mr. Ullah acted alone, Mayor Bill de Blasio said, adding that no other devices had been found.
市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)说乌拉是单独行动，并表示没有发现其他爆炸装置。
“Our lives revolve around the subway,” the mayor said. “The choice of New York is always for a reason, because we are a beacon to the world. And we actually show that a society of many faiths and many backgrounds can work.”
“我们的生活围绕地铁展开，“白思豪说。“选择纽约总是因为一个原因，因为我们是世界的灯塔。我们也的确表明，一个由多种信仰和背景组成的社会是可以运行的。”
“The terrorists want to undermine that,” the mayor added. “They yearn to attack New York City.”
“恐怖分子想破坏这一点，“白思豪接着说。“他们渴望袭击纽约市。”
Mr. de Blasio spoke within hours of the attack. But the investigation by the Joint Terrorism Task Force was still in its preliminary stages.
白思豪在袭击发生后数小时内发表了讲话。但打击恐怖活动联合工作组(Joint Terrorism Task Force)的调查工作仍处于初步阶段。
Christina Bethea was in the underground walkway, headed to her job as a security guard, when the explosion nearly knocked her over, sending a haze of smoke into the corridor packed with commuters. She did not see where it came from, she said. “As soon as we heard ‘boom!’ we began to run,” she said. An hour after the attack, she stood outside the Port Authority, calling her mother and father in North Carolina to tell them she was O.K. “I feel good,” Ms. Bethea said. “I am alive!”
身为保安员的克里斯蒂娜·贝西娅(Christina Bethea)当时正走在那条地铁通道上准备去上班，爆炸几乎把她推倒，浓浓烟雾涌向挤满了通勤者的走廊。她说她没看见爆炸从哪里开始。“我们一听到‘嘭’的爆炸声就开始跑，“她说。袭击发生一小时后，她站在港务局外，给她住在北卡罗来纳州的父母打电话报平安。“感觉真好，“贝西娅说。“我还活着！”
The authorities were searching Mr. Ullah’s residence on Ocean Parkway, pursuant to a federal warrant, one law enforcement official said. While no formal announcement had been made, both federal and local law enforcement officials indicated that Mr. Ullah would be prosecuted in federal court in Manhattan by the office of the acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, Joon H. Kim. The attack is being investigated by the Joint Terrorism Task Force, which is made up largely of F.B.I. agents and New York detectives, along with investigators from a score of other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.
一名执法官员称，当局正在根据联邦搜捕状，搜查乌拉在海洋大道上的住所。虽然尚未正式公布，但联邦和当地的执法人员都表示，乌拉将在曼哈顿一家联邦法院由纽约南部地区的代理美国联邦检察官金俊(Joon H. Kim)的办公室起诉。打击恐怖活动联合工作组正在调查这起袭击事件，这个团队主要是由联邦调查局成员、纽约的侦探，以及来自其他20个联邦、州和地方执法机构的调查人员组成。
The attack roiled commutes across the region. All subway lines were directed to skip 42nd Street stops, according to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. By late morning, only the A, C, and E were still skipping the stop. The Port Authority was evacuated for several hours; it reopened around 10:30 a.m. All morning, thwarted travelers spilled into the streets of Times Square, towing suitcases in bewildered silence. They gathered at police cordons stretched across 42nd Street, filming a scene of organized chaos as scores of emergency vehicles arrived at the scene every few minutes.
这场袭击扰乱了整个地区的交通。大都会交通管理局(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)表示，所有的地铁线路都会跳过第42街站。到上午晚些时候，只有A、C和E线仍然不在这个站停车。港务局的人员撤离了几个小时。它在上午十点半左右重新开放。整个上午，受惊吓的旅客纷纷涌入时报广场的大街小巷，拖着行李箱陷入困惑和沉默。他们聚集在横跨第42街的警戒线周围，纷纷拍下一个有组织的混乱场面——每隔几分钟就有几十辆急救车辆赶到现场。
John Frank, 54, was standing on 42nd Street by the Port Authority exit when he felt tremors through the pavement. “That’s how strong it was,” he said. Everyone began to run. He stood on Eighth Avenue a few blocks away on Monday morning, shaken, leaning on a garbage pail for support. “In New York City, we are vulnerable to a lot of things,” he said. “These incidents are happening too frequently.”
爆炸发生时，54岁的约翰·弗兰克(John Frank)正站在第42街的港务局大门外，他感觉到人行道在震颤。“就是那么强烈，“他说。所有人开始跑。他站在几个街区远的第八大道上，浑身发抖，身体靠着一个垃圾桶。“在纽约，我们很容易受到很多事情的影响，“他说。 “这些事件发生得太频繁了。”