“This is the best service I’ve ever had,” a woman at my table declared halfway through dinner at Crazy Crab 888. We were eating off paper plates, our hands in plastic gloves and our faces bathed in fluorescence, in a former bodega still anchored by a counter selling lottery tickets and Alka-Seltzer.
 “这里的服务真是最好的，”在疯狂螃蟹888(Crazy Crab 888)，我同桌的女人晚饭吃到一半时这样说道。这里以前曾是个酒窖，里面仍然有个柜台，贩卖彩票和胃药；我们戴着塑料手套，用纸盘子吃东西，荧光灯照在脸上。
But she was on to something. At this Burmese-Yunnanese-Malaysian-Thai restaurant aspiring to be a Cajun crab shack in Flushing, Queens, the ambience may be zero stars, but the service approaches four.
但她被什么东西迷住了。这家店位于皇后区法拉盛，结合了缅甸-云南-马来西亚-泰国风格，抱负是成为一家路易斯安那州风格的螃蟹小吃店，用餐氛围可谓是零星级，但服务却可以达到四星。
Partly depleted plates are soundlessly whisked away and their contents returned, within moments, neatly transferred to smaller containers (usually plastic-foam bowls) to make room for more dishes. Fresh napkins and gloves are replenished before you have time to register the necessity. Plastic bibs are delicately tied around diners’ necks, in a manner that suggests a spa rather than a nursery.
一部分用过的盘子被服务员无声地撤下，用不了多久，里面的剩菜就会被整齐地装进小一些的容器里（通常是泡沫塑料碗），重新端上桌，这样就可以为新上的菜腾出地方。不等你开口要求，服务员就会为你补上崭新的纸巾和手套。他们还会细心帮食客在脖子上系好塑料围嘴，手法与其说像护士，倒不如说像水疗师。
The food is less focused. Dishes labeled Burmese or Yunnanese, still rare sightings in New York, excite; boiled seafood, available by the pound, does not. Order carefully and your meal could be spectacular.
这里的食物风味多样，菜品被分别标为缅甸风格和云南风格，二者在纽约尚不多见，十分诱人；按磅出售的煮海鲜却不那么美味。但只要细心点菜，就能吃到丰盛的一餐。
The owner, Gina Liu, who was born in Burma (now Myanmar),  used to run Excellent Thai a few blocks north. There, the cooks — Sophia Wang (Ms. Liu’s sister-in-law), Mei Lee and Mg Naing — would occasionally make off-menu dishes from their native Myanmar, for those who knew to ask for them. They are now reunited in the kitchen at Crazy Crab 888. (About that numeric suffix: Ms. Liu grew up in Taiwan, and in Chinese culture, eight is considered the luckiest of numbers.)
店主吉娜·刘（Gina Liu，音译）生于缅甸，她曾在这里往北几个街区的地方开过名叫“精彩泰餐”的饭馆，那里的厨师有她的嫂子索菲亚·王（Sophia Wang，音译）、李梅（音译）和Mg Naing，他们不时会应懂行的食客要求，做些菜谱上没有的缅甸家乡菜。现在这群人又在疯狂螃蟹888的厨房里重新聚首了（至于为什么店名里有“888”这个数字，是因为刘女士在台湾长大，在中国文化里，8被认为是最吉利的数字）。
Their specialties include laphet thoke, a salad of fermented tea leaves, looking like mulch and dank, tart and smoky at once. In Myanmar, it is often served as separate ingredients, to be mixed and calibrated by the diner. But here all is tossed and pressed together, so that a single mouthful is a concatenation of dried shrimp, crispy garlic, roasted peanuts, crunchy cabbage, fried beans (12 varieties) and rings of hot chile pepper, ending in a shiver of lime juice and fish sauce.
他们最擅长的菜包括茶叶沙拉，这是用发酵过的茶叶做成的沙拉，看上去很像湿漉漉的护根（园艺中置于植物周围土壤上助其生长的枯树叶、小树枝——译注），既酸又有烟熏味。在缅甸，这道菜上菜时通常是各种原料分开端上来，让食客根据自己的口味混合。但在这里，它们被调和搅拌在一起，所以一口吃下去，就可以尝到虾皮、干蒜、烤花生、脆卷心菜叶、煎豆的口味（共有12种材料），辅以切成圆段的红辣椒，最后还有柠檬汁和鱼露混合的调料。
Gyin thoke, or ginger salad, draws on many of the same ingredients and appears almost identical, with ginger standing in for the tea leaves. But it is an ambush, hot and bright, with double the crunch and a heightened sense of salt versus sweet.
姜制沙拉的原料大同小异，看上去也几乎一模一样，只不过用姜换掉了茶叶。但它出其不意，又辣又爽口，咸甜两种口味激烈地碰撞，分外爽脆。
Pork jowl is boiled, chilled and sliced into broad ribbons as thin as tissue. These come curled in a salad from the Chinese province Yunnan, Myanmar’s neighbor, and are faintly chewy at first, and then obligingly dissolve. More texturally unexpected is “yellow” tofu, made fresh every day, not from soybeans but from yellow split peas. It is a cousin to mung-bean jelly, albeit less slippery, with a consistency that calls to mind flan.
煮熟的猪脸肉被晾凉并切成纤薄如纸的宽条，也成为一种沙拉的原料，它来自中国与缅甸交界处的云南省，一开始可能有点不好嚼，但很快就舒服地融化在口里。“黄豆腐”的口感有些出人意料，它是每天现做的，原料不是大豆，而是黄豌豆。它是绿豆凉粉的亲戚，只是没有那么顺滑柔韧，让人想起果馅饼。
Ascribed on the menu to Yunnan, yellow tofu also belongs to the culinary traditions of Myanmar’s northeastern Shan State, with which Yunnan shares a border. Little batons of pork turn tangy from close quarters with house-made Shan-style pickled daikon leaves. Rice noodle soup arrives still frothy, laden with minced pork and pickled tofu, a variation on the Shan dish meeshay, by way of the teahouses in Mandalay; a virulent sauce of chile pepper, soy and lemon shocks it to life.
饭馆的菜谱把黄豆腐归为云南菜，其实它也属于缅甸东北部与云南交界的掸邦的美食传统。小段猪肉和自制掸式腌萝卜叶拌在一起，滋味浓郁。米粉汤端上来时还是滚热的，里面有猪肉末和豆腐块，这是掸邦的米线做法，曼德勒的茶馆里也是这样做的；此外还有辣得要命的辣椒酱、酱油和柠檬作为辅料，足以令人震撼。
These were the dishes that made me want to come back. But when I visited, the tables around me were covered with boiled seafood (the restaurant’s specialty and the reason for the gloves and bibs) in plastic bags tucked into metal bowls, accompanied by half-cobs of corn. The seasonings — Cajun, lemon pepper and garlic butter — yearn, hopelessly, for the bayou.
这些菜都令我想当回头客。但我到饭馆时，周围几桌都放着煮海鲜（这是饭馆的特色菜，因为吃海鲜，所以才要用到手套和围嘴），它们被放在塑料袋罩着的金属碗里，配着切成段的玉米。调料有路易斯安那州式的柠檬辣椒酱和黄油大蒜——想模仿路易斯安那州的食物，但不是那么成功。
Crazy Crab 888 sits on a churning boulevard near the Flushing waterfront, sandwiched between the Long Island Rail Road tracks and a liquor store. The décor is eccentric and possibly accidental: a clock orbited by forks and spoons, a lamp posing as a kind of voluptuous, dripping sea creature. Across the street is a mammoth mall and condo development, whose shoppers and tenants may be partly to blame for the restaurant’s identity crisis of a menu, a crowd-pleasing attempt gone awry.
疯狂螃蟹888坐落在一条热闹的大路上，离法拉盛河边不远，夹在长岛铁路和一家卖酒的铺子之间。装潢怪异，或许有些随意：一块钟表周围围绕着叉子和勺子，一盏灯的形状好像某种性感的、滴着水的海洋生物。街对面是一个大型购物中心和公寓，某种程度上，可能是为了迎合那些购物者和住客们，这家饭馆的菜谱才有点不伦不类，一些迎合大众的菜品显得很不对劲。
Ms. Liu says her next restaurant will be purely Burmese. Why not this one?
刘女士说她开的下一个饭馆会只做缅甸菜，那么为什么不从这个就开始呢。