The Metro-North Railroad train that hurtled off the rails on a sleepy holiday weekend morning was traveling more than 80 miles per hour as it approached one of the sharpest curves in the region’s rail system, federal investigators said on Monday — nearly three times the speed permitted through the turn.
联邦调查人员周一表示，大都会北方铁路公司(Metro-North Railroad)的一列脱轨列车在节日周末的宁静早晨接近出事弯道时，时速超过80英里（约合130公里），近三倍于转弯限速，而这里属于该地区铁路系统中最急的弯道之列。
The throttle was still engaged — giving the engine power — until six seconds before the locomotive, in the rear of the train, came to a stop around 7:20 a.m. Sunday after careering toward the Harlem River, killing four people and injuring dozens more, officials said.
这列火车冲进了哈莱姆河，导致四人身亡，数十人受伤。脱轨后，位于列车后部的机车于周日早间7点20分左右熄火。官员们称，在熄火的6秒前，油门还在给引擎提供动力。
The National Transportation Safety Board is leading the investigation, and a board member, Earl Weener, said the train’s sudden power shift came “very late in the game.” The board cautioned that it remained unclear if the speed was the result of human error or faulty equipment.
牵头进行相关调查的是美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)。委员厄尔·韦纳(Earl Weener)称，这列火车突然的动力变化出现在“事件很晚的阶段”。委员会谨慎地表示，尚不清楚造成这种速度的是人为失误还是设备故障。
But the extraordinary speed — even a relative straightaway north of the crash site has a maximum allowable speed of 70 miles per hour — shed new light on the deadliest New York City train derailment in more than two decades and heightened the focus on the engineer at the center of the investigation.
这一异乎寻常的速度——就连事发地北面较为笔直的路段限速都仅为每小时70英里——给纽约市20多年以来伤亡最为严重的列车脱轨事故提供了新线索，同时也将调查的重点集中到了火车司机身上。
Asked if the safety board was looking into the possibility that the engineer, William Rockefeller, fell asleep, was using his cellphone or was otherwise distracted, a spokesman for the board, Keith Holloway, said, “Part of our investigation, as in all investigations, is to look at human performance factors.”
这名司机名叫威廉·洛克菲勒(William Rockefeller)。当被问到安全委员会是否在调查他当时睡着、使用手机或受到别的干扰的可能性时，委员会发言人基思·霍洛韦(Keith Holloway)回答称，“我们的调查，与所有的调查一样，将会包含审视人为因素的部分。”
Mr. Rockefeller’s cellphone was recovered as “part of our routine process,” Mr. Weener said, and the results of drug and alcohol tests conducted after the crash were not yet known. Mr. Rockefeller was treated at a hospital after the accident and released.
韦纳则表示，“作为常规程序的一部分”，洛克菲勒的手机被找回，而脱轨后对他进行的药物与酒精测试的结果尚未出来。事故发生后，洛克菲勒在医院接受了治疗，现已出院。
The authorities said that the train’s brakes appeared to have been operating effectively shortly before the crash.
当局称，脱轨前不久，列车的刹车系统似乎运行良好。
“We are not aware of any problems or anomalies with the brakes,” Mr. Weener said.
“我们没有听说刹车有任何问题或异常，”韦纳称。
Senator Charles E. Schumer noted, “The train did make nine stops before coming to this curve. So clearly the brakes were working a short time before.”
参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)指出，“来到这个弯道之前，列车确实停了九站。因此，刹车显然在不久前还是管用的。”
He added that he was told by the safety board that the tracks in the area also seem to have been in proper condition.
他还表示，安全委员会告诉他，该地区的铁轨看来也是状况良好。
The safety board’s interview with Mr. Rockefeller, who lives in Germantown, N.Y., was cut short on Monday afternoon and is to continue this week, officials said.
洛克菲勒居住在纽约州的日耳曼敦。官员们表示，安全委员会与他的谈话周一下午没有完成，将于本周继续进行。
Anthony Bottalico, the acting director of the Association of Commuter Rail Employees, said that the interview was postponed because of “the trauma of the whole thing and the lack of sleep” for Mr. Rockefeller.
通勤列车员工协会(Association of Commuter Rail Employees)的代理会长安东尼·博塔利科(Anthony Bottalico)说，谈话之所以延期，是因为洛克菲勒“因整件事受到了精神创伤，而且缺乏睡眠”。
Several law enforcement officials said that detectives from the New York and Metropolitan Transportation Authority Police Departments, with help from the office of the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, were conducting an investigation parallel to the safety board’s inquiry.
几名执法官员表示，安全委员会进行调查的同时，纽约及大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)的警察部门的探员，也在布朗克斯地区检察官罗伯特·T·约翰逊(Robert T. Johnson)办公室的协助下展开了平行调查。
This is being done to collect evidence that could be used if prosecutors determine a crime occurred, three of the officials said. The safety board is not a law enforcement agency and its role is limited to issuing findings and making recommendations.
三名官员称，他们的调查是为了搜集可用的证据，为检察官对是否涉及犯罪的认定做准备。安全委员会不是执法机构，它的作用仅限于发布调查结论与提出建议。
Prosecutors from Mr. Johnson’s office were at the scene of the derailment, and two officials said the prosecutors had issued subpoenas for the engineer’s blood samples, for drug and alcohol testing, and for his cellphone.
约翰逊办公室的检察人员就在脱轨事故现场。两名官员称，检察人员发出了传票，要求提交司机的血样、药物与酒精测试结果，以及他的手机。
Mr. Bottalico predicted that “when all is said and done here,” the authorities would find there was “no criminal intent.”
博塔利科预计，“当这里的事情都了结了的时候”，当局将会发现“并无犯罪意图”。
A senior official with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has said that Mr. Rockefeller initially told emergency workers that he “dumped the brakes,” an emergency maneuver, after he realized he was traveling too quickly toward the curve.
大都会运输署的一名高级官员称，洛克菲勒起初告诉应急人员，当意识到进弯过快的时候，他采取了紧急措施，“猛踩刹车”。
Marjorie Anders, a spokeswoman with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said the front car, where the engineer was positioned, had a “dead man’s pedal,” which operators must keep depressed to avoid automatic braking.
大都会运输署的女发言人玛乔丽·安德斯(Marjorie Anders)说，司机乘坐的头车有一个“失知制动装置”，操作人员需不断按下才能避免自动刹车。
A crucial question, officials said, was why the train was traveling so fast as to require an emergency maneuver. 
官员们称，关键问题是，为何列车走得这么快，以至于需要进行紧急操作。
Friends described Mr. Rockefeller, who rose from the ranks of Grand Central Terminal custodians to a six-figure job as an engineer, as a mechanically inclined tinkerer and a former volunteer firefighter.
洛克菲勒曾是纽约中央车站的普通勤杂工，最后成为了年薪六位数的火车司机。在友人口中，他喜欢摆弄机器，还当过志愿消防员。