NEW YORK — The man who shot and killed two police officers in New York City on Saturday afternoon, targeting them solely because of the uniforms they wore, boasted to two people about what he was about to do just moments before he opened fire on the officers as they sat in their patrol car.
纽约——上周六下午，一名枪手射杀了纽约市的两名警察，原因仅是他们穿着的制服。两名受害者当时正坐在自己的巡逻车中，凶手在向他们开枪之前，曾向两个路人炫耀自己的计划。
In a chilling and detailed account of the shooting, the police department’s chief of detectives, Robert Boyce, said that the gunman, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, 28, first walked past the patrol car, crossed the street and then approached the car from behind. He stood outside the passenger side window and fired four shots into the vehicle, killing the officers, Wenjian Liu, 32, and Rafael Ramos, 40.
警方侦查部门负责人罗伯特·博伊斯(Robert Boyce)详细讲述了这起枪击案，情形令人不寒而栗。枪手是28岁的伊斯马伊尔·布林斯利(Ismaaiyl Brinsley)，他先是从这辆巡逻车旁边走过，穿过马路，然后绕回来从后面靠近巡逻车。他站在副驾驶座的窗前，向车内连开4枪，导致32岁的刘文健（Wenjian Liu音译）和40岁的拉斐尔·拉莫斯(Rafael Ramos)丧生。
Mr. Brinsley fled the scene but was followed by two Consolidated Edison workers whom the police called heroic. They alerted the police that Mr. Brinsley had headed down onto a Brooklyn subway platform, where he was confronted by police officers and killed himself with a single bullet.
布林斯利逃离了现场，但是爱迪生联合电气公司(Consolidated Edison)的两名工人尾随着他。这两名工人被警方称为英雄，他们告诉警方，布林斯利进了布鲁克林的地铁站台。在该站台里，布林斯利面对警察时，朝自己开了一枪，自杀身亡。
The killing of the two police officers, which Police Commissioner William J. Bratton has called an “assassination,'’ comes at a moment of heightened tension between Mayor Bill de Blasio and the Police Department.
警察局局长威廉·J·布拉顿(William J. Bratton)称，对这两名警察的攻击属于“暗杀”。此案发生时，正值纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)和警察局的关系高度紧张。
In a stunning show of disapproval and disrespect, police officers, led by union officials, turned their backs to him on Saturday night when the mayor went to the hospital to talk about the two officers who were killed.
上周六晚，当市长前往医院就两名警官被杀一事发表讲话时，警员们表现出惊人的不满和不敬，他们在警察工会官员的领导下，转身背朝着市长。
Flags across the city flew at half-staff on Sunday as officials from President Obama to Attorney General Eric Holder condemned the murder of the officers and offered their condolences.
周日，整个城市降半旗致哀。从奥巴马到司法部长埃里克·霍尔德(Eric Holder)，官员们纷纷对谋杀警员的行为予以谴责，并表达了哀思。
Chief Boyce said that the early investigation into Mr. Brinsley has not revealed any gang affiliations or links to extremist groups.
博伊斯说，初步调查没有发现布林斯利与任何帮派和极端组织有关系。
Mr. Brinsley had been arrested at least 19 times, Chief Boyce said, most of those occurring in Georgia. The charges included disorderly conduct and shoplifting. He spent about two years in jails in Georgia related to a weapons possession charge, Chief Boyce said.
博伊斯说，布林斯利此前至少19次被捕，其中大多数都发生在乔治亚州。他受到的指控包括妨害治安行为和入店行窃。博伊斯说有一次他曾被控非法拥有武器，在乔治亚州的监狱服刑大约两年。
The police would not speculate on any mental health issues that Mr. Brinsley might have had, saying only that his family said that he was on medication at some point for behavorial issues.
对于布林斯利是否可能存在任何心理健康问题，警方没有加以推测，只是说，布林斯利的家人表示，他在服药纠正行为问题。
During an August 2011 plea hearing in Cobb County, Ga., he was asked: “Have you ever been a patient in a mental institution or under the care of a psychiatrist or psychologist?”
2011年8月，在乔治亚州科布县的认罪听证会上，有人问布林斯利：“你曾是精神病院的病人，或接受过精神病学家、心理医生治疗吗？”
According to a court record, he responded yes. The record did not provide any other details.
法庭记录显示，他回答说是的。但这份记录没有提供其他细节。
Last year, Chief Boyce said, Mr. Brinsley tried to hang himself. As his family had grown increasingly worried about his behavior, Mr. Brinsley seems to have bounced among different residences.
博伊斯说，布林斯利去年曾试图上吊自杀。他的家人越来越担心他的行为，布林斯利似乎在不断更换住地。
On Saturday, Mr. Brinsley began his day with bloodshed, according to the police. Before he left for New York, he entered the apartment of a former girlfriend in Maryland at about 5:30 a.m., using a key he was not supposed to have, according to the police.
警方说，上周六，布林斯利开始了他血腥一天。在前往纽约之前的早上5:30，布林斯用一把他本不该有的钥匙，进入了马里兰州一名前女友的公寓。
The two argued and he shot her once; she survived. He took her phone and offered updates on his plans for the rest of the day.
两人发生争吵，他朝她开了一枪；她没有毙命。他拿走前女友的手机，并讲述了他这一天的安排的新进展。
He was armed with a silver pistol and a desire to kill police officers. He took a Bolt bus to New York and arrived shortly before 11 a.m.
他手持一把银色手枪，想要杀死警察。他乘坐一辆博尔特(Bolt)巴士，在上午11点前不久，到达了纽约。
As he traveled to New York, he called the mother of his former girlfriend, saying that he accidentally shot her daughter. He said he hoped she would be okay.
他在前往纽约途中，给前女友的母亲打电话说，自己不小心用枪打伤了她的女儿。他说希望她没事。
He also posted updates on an Instagram account.
他还用Instagram帐号发布了信息。
“I’m Putting Wings On Pigs Today,” Mr. Brinsley wrote in one, according to the police, where he also referred to the death of Eric Garner, who was killed in a confrontation with the police on Staten Island and Michael Brown, who was killed in a confrontation with police in Ferguson, Missouri. “They Take 1 Of Ours, Let’s Take 2 of Theirs.”
“我今天要给猪插上翅膀，”布林斯利在其中一条信息上写道，警方称，此外他还提到了埃里克·加纳(Eric Garner)和迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)，前者在斯塔顿岛(Staten Island)与警方对峙时丧生，后者在密苏里州弗格森与警方对峙时被击毙。“他们打死我们一个，我们就打死他们两个。”
The mother of the woman he was suspected of shooting alerted the police about the messages around 1:30 p.m.
下午1:30左右，他涉嫌枪击的那个女人的母亲，将这些消息告知警方。
The messages were cryptic, suggesting officers would die but not specifying exactly where, and investigators in Maryland scrambled to determine where they had been posted from.
这些消息含义不清，暗示会有警员丧生，但没有指明确切位置，马里兰州的调查人员紧急行动，努力弄清他贴这些消息时的位置。
Soon after, they located the posts — and a cellphone carried by Mr. Brinsley — in southern Brooklyn.
不久，他们发现了这些消息是在布鲁克林南部张贴的，布林斯利所携带的手机的位置也在那里。
Mr. Bratton said at 2:47 p.m. Mr. Brinsley approached the officers and fatally shot them in their car in the 79th Precinct, several miles north of where his cellphone had been located by the Baltimore County police.
布拉顿说，在下午2：47，布林斯利在第79分局的辖区靠近这两名警员的车辆，并枪杀了他们。案发地在巴尔的摩县警方定位到的手机所在地以北数英里处。
Chief Boyce said that moments before the shooting, a cellphone video showed Mr. Brinsley talking to two men on a street corner. He asked if they were affiliated with any gangs, urged them to check out his Instagram account and bragged about what he was going to do.
博伊斯说，一个手机视频显示，布林斯利开枪之前不久，曾在街角与两名男子交谈。他问他们是否是帮派成员，让他们关注他的Instagram账户，还吹嘘了他的打算。
The officers were shot and killed near Myrtle and Tompkins Avenues in Bedford-Stuyvesant, in the shadow of a tall housing project, while on patrol as part of an effort to tamp down violence in the area.
案发地点位于贝德福德-斯图文森区(Bedford- Stuyvesant)的默特尔和汤普金斯大道附近，笼罩在一座高层住宅项目的阴影里。警员巡逻是平息该地区暴力事件的举措之一。
Mr. Bratton said the officers never had a chance to draw their weapons and perhaps never saw their killer coming.
布拉顿说，警员没有拔出武器的机会，也许连凶手的模样都没有看到。
President Obama joined the ranks of public officials who expressed outrage and sorrow.
奥巴马和其他政府官员对此事表达了愤慨和悲哀。
“I ask people to reject violence and words that harm, and turn to words that heal — prayer, patient dialogue, and sympathy for the friends and family of the fallen,” Mr. Obama said in a statement.
“我呼吁大家摒弃暴力和伤人的言语，使用弥合创伤的言语——祈祷、有耐心的对话，对死者亲友的同情，”奥巴马在一份声明中说。
But the tension between City Hall and the Police Department is worse than it has been in years.
但市政厅和警察局之间的紧张关系，相比于过去几年已经加剧。
Patrick Lynch, president of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, laid the blame for the deaths of the officers squarely at the feet of the mayor.
巡警慈善协会会长帕特里克·林奇(Patrick Lynch)把两位警员之死直接归咎于市长。
“That blood on the hands starts on the steps of City Hall, in the office of the mayor,” he said.
“凶手手上的血迹始于市政厅的台阶，始于市长办公室，”他说。
On Sunday, the Police Department began adopting defensive tactics in its patrol strategy, ordering officers on foot patrol to stay in pairs at all times. The order came as the president of the detective’s union, Michael J. Palladino, told all precinct detectives, who usually operate alone or in pairs, to stay in “teams of three when possible until we better assess the threat that exists against us.”
周日，警察局开始在巡逻中采取防御战术，要求徒步巡逻的警员在任何时候都两人一组，结伴而行。与此同时，探员工会主席迈克尔·帕拉迪诺(Michael J. Palladino)也告诉各警区的探员，“在我们能更好地评估我们面临的威胁之前，尽可能三人同行。”探员通常单独行动或两人同行。
That message, not an order but a recommendation, followed an official directive from the chief of patrol sent to all uniformed officers on Sunday.
帕拉迪诺发布的不是命令，而是建议，在这之前，巡警负责人向所有制服警员发布了一道正式命令。
“Effective immediately and until further notice,” the order to all patrol commanders and supervisors said, “there are to be no solo footposts citywide.” Meal and personal breaks “will also be taken in pairs.”
“立即生效，直至另行通知”，这份发给全体巡逻指挥官和主管的命令说，“在全市范围内，不得出现警员单独巡逻的情况”，在用餐和个人休息时，“也要两个一组”。