Donald J. Trump wrested back control of the Republican presidential race on Tuesday night with a commanding victory in the New York primary, while Hillary Clinton dealt a severe blow to Senator Bernie Sanders as she won her adopted home state and increased her advantage in the Democratic nomination fight.
周二晚上，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在纽约州的共和党初选中获得压倒性胜利，从而夺回了对党内选战的控制。与此同时，把纽约州视为第二故乡的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)重挫参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，赢得了该州的民主党初选，扩大了自己的领先优势。
The Queens-born, Manhattan-made Mr. Trump, who campaigned vigorously for a huge vote total to revive his political fortunes, drew support from majorities of nearly every demographic group across the state, according to exit polls by Edison Research. With Republicans turning out in relatively high numbers, Mr. Trump’s appeal was so strong that The Associated Press declared him the victor shortly after the polls closed at 9 p.m. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio led Senator Ted Cruz of Texas for a distant second place in early returns.
为了拿到可观的总票数，重振自己的政治命运，出生于皇后区、成长在曼哈顿的特朗普在这一役中使出了浑身解数。爱迪生研究(Edison Research)开展的选后民调显示，他几乎在该州的每一个投票人群中都得到了多数人的支持。共和党人的投票率相对较高，而特朗普的吸引力又是如此之大，投票于晚9点结束后不久，美联社(The Associated Press)便宣布他赢得了胜利。前期统计结果显示，在对远远落后于榜首的“亚军”位置的争夺中，俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)领先于德克萨斯州特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)。
By routing his opponents, Mr. Trump improved his chances of winning the Republican nomination — and perhaps significantly, depending on whether the final vote totals translate into a sizable increase in his current delegate lead over Mr. Cruz.
通过大胜竞争对手，特朗普提高了自己赢得共和党总统候选人提名的几率，而且这种提高的幅度可能很大，当然这要取决于最终的总票数能否让代表人数目前领先于克鲁兹的特朗普大幅扩大领先优势。
But no matter the margin of victory, New York Republicans gave Mr. Trump a restorative psychic boost after weeks when Mr. Cruz scored a big victory in the Wisconsin primary and outmaneuvered the Trump campaign in Colorado, Wyoming and elsewhere in winning and electing delegates backing his candidacy.
但不论领先幅度是多少，纽约州的共和党人都在特朗普被克鲁兹压制数周之后给他打了一剂强心针。此前，克鲁兹在威斯康星州初选中大胜，并在科罗拉多州、怀俄明州等地通过谋略击败特朗普的竞选团队，赢得了选举，让支持他的人获得了代表资格。
Mr. Trump now has clear momentum heading into the next primaries in Pennsylvania, Connecticut and three other states next Tuesday — so much so that he evinced fresh optimism on Tuesday about ultimately getting to the 1,237 delegates needed to capture the nomination.
特朗普正以强劲的势头向着宾夕法尼亚州初选、康涅狄格州初选以及下周二另外三个州的初选挺进——以至于他在本周二谈及最终能否拿到赢得党内提名所需的1237张代表票时，表现出了久违的乐观。
“I think I’ll get there,” Mr. Trump said in an interview before the polls closed.
“我认为我能做到，”投票结束前，特朗普接受采访时表示。
In the Democratic race, Mrs. Clinton snapped Mr. Sanders’s winning streak and took an important step toward clinching the nomination. While the race appeared to tighten in recent days, Mrs. Clinton held a significant edge in early returns.
在民主党的竞争中，克林顿终结了桑德斯的连胜，朝获得提名迈出了重要的一步。尽管最近几天竞争似乎变得白热化，但前期统计结果显示，克林顿优势明显。
But the vote was marred by irregularities at polling places across Brooklyn. The city comptroller’s office said the Board of Elections had confirmed that more than 125,000 Democratic voters in Brooklyn were dropped between November and this month, while about 63,000 were added — a net loss that was not explained.
不过，布鲁克林各地的投票点出现了一些有违常规的现象，影响了投票结果。该市审计官办公室称，选举委员会(Board of Elections)证实，从去年11月到本月期间，12.5万民主党选民被清理出去，新加入约6.3万人。官方未对总人数减少作出解释。
Mayor Bill de Blasio described “the purging of entire buildings and blocks of voters,” while the comptroller, Scott Stringer, said his office would audit the Board of Elections.
纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)称“整栋大楼，乃至整个街区的选民遭到清理”，审计官斯科特·斯特林格(Scott Stringer)则表示，他领导的办公室将对选举委员会进行审计。
Sanders advisers had said that beating Mrs. Clinton in her adopted home state represented one of their campaign’s best opportunities to damage her candidacy and sew doubts about her strength as a general-election nominee. On Tuesday, however, Mrs. Clinton drew deep support among women and blacks — two groups that have been essential for her in many states — while Mr. Sanders was outpacing her among white men and people under 45, according to exit polls.
桑德斯的顾问此前表示，在克林顿的第二故乡打败她，是桑德斯竞选团队削弱其候选人资格，让民众对她作为大选提名人选的能力产生怀疑最好的机会之一。然而，出口民调显示，周二当天，克林顿在女性和黑人选民——在很多州，这两个群体都对克林顿至关重要——中受到广泛支持，桑德斯则在白人男性和45岁以下选民中领先克林顿。
“Bernie Sanders got very negative attacking Hillary Clinton and dividing the party in New York, and I think he now has to ask himself if he wants to keep going down that path,” said Jay Jacobs, a Clinton supporter who is the Democratic chairman in Nassau County on Long Island. “After New York, we’re moving into a phase of the campaign where we have to start uniting the party.”
“在纽约，伯尼·桑德斯变得非常负面，攻击了希拉里·克林顿，并在党内制造分歧。我想他现在不得不问自己，是否想在那条路上坚持下去，”支持克林顿的长岛纳苏县民主党主席杰伊·雅各布斯(Jay Jacobs)说。“纽约的投票结束后，我们将进入一个不得不开始团结全党的阶段。”
Mr. Sanders and his team spent Tuesday looking past New York, as the candidate campaigned in Pennsylvania and his advisers expressed optimism that he would perform strongly in next Tuesday’s primaries in that state as well as in Rhode Island and Connecticut. The other two states voting next week, Delaware and Maryland, are widely seen as Clinton strongholds. The Sanders campaign is already running television ads in those five states and Indiana, which votes May 3.
周二当天，桑德斯及其团队一直在展望纽约州之后的选举。桑德斯在宾夕法尼亚州四处拉票，其顾问则乐观地表示，他将在宾夕法尼亚州，以及罗德岛和康涅狄格州下周二举行的初选中表现强劲。下周投票的另外两个州特拉华和马里兰，普遍被认为是克林顿的大本营。桑德斯团队已经在这五个州和定于5月3日投票的印第安纳州播放电视广告了。
“Bernie is in good shape going forward no matter who wins New York,” said Tad Devine, a senior adviser on the Sanders campaign. “We could win enough delegates in Pennsylvania and Indiana to catch up further to her, and we have good opportunities all the way through California,” which votes June 7. Still, Mr. Devine acknowledged, “we’re going to have to have some big wins at the end” of the primary and caucus season.
“不管谁拿下纽约州，伯尼都保持着良好的状态，会坚持下去，”桑德斯竞选团队的高级顾问塔德·迪瓦恩(Tad Devine)说。“我们可以在宾夕法尼亚州和印第安纳州赢得足够多的代表人数，进一步赶上她，一直到加利福尼亚州，我们都有机会。”加利福尼亚州将于6月7日举行投票。不过，迪瓦恩承认，在初选和预选会议季的“最后，我们必须取得一些重大胜利”。