Jean-Marc Choffel, a 42-year-old Frenchman who splits his time between New York and Miami, was mulling over his plans for the night. Nothing seemed appealing. He had worked late into the evening, and a December rain was coming down hard.
42岁的让·马克·科菲(Jean-Marc Choffel)平时住在纽约和迈阿密，此时他正在思考晚上的安排。好像没什么有意思的事。当天他已经工作到很晚，12月的大雨一直下个不停。
As 9 p.m. approached, he was still in his workplace on West 14th Street, seated in a leather swivel chair.
到了晚上9点，他还在位于西14街的工作的地方，坐在一把皮革转椅上。
“Who do I call?” Mr. Choffel asked. “Everyone has kids. I know everybody’s in bed, so who do you call?”
“给谁打电话呢？”科菲问。“大家都有孩子，肯定都上床睡觉了，到底给谁打电话呢？”
If he really wanted to do something, he added, he could walk up the street, get drunk somewhere and meet someone.
他还说，如果真的没事可干，他可以走在街上，找个地方买醉，和陌生人勾搭一下。
“But I’m going to wake up with a headache,” he said, “and I don’t want that.”
“但是这样醒来以后会头疼的，”他说，“我可不想这样。”
Mr. Choffel, a hairstylist whose clients include Sharon Stone, Fergie and numerous fashion models, was seated in his salon. There was nothing stopping him from going to a club. But here he was, thinking about what was missing from his life.
科菲是个发型师，他的客户中包括莎朗·斯通(Sharon Stone)、菲姬(Fergie)和很多名模，此时他待在自己的沙龙里。他完全可以出去找个夜店。但他依然坐在这儿，思考着自己生活中缺失的东西。
“When you’re 27, there’s no tomorrow,” Mr. Choffel said. “At 42, today’s tomorrow. Going home to kids and a family, you’re creating something. You’re building something.”
“27岁的时候，你眼里根本就没有明天，”科菲说，“可是到了42岁，今天就是明天。回到家里，回到孩子们和家庭中去，你就是在创造一些东西，也是在建设一些东西。”
He is not alone in his increasing distaste for a life that many married men would say they envy. With the freedom has come certain costs: isolation, regret and the feeling that, although you may still feel 25 in your heart, your knees are starting to ache and the years are slipping by fast.
不少已婚男士都会对科菲的生活表示羡慕，然而他却对这种生活越来越厌恶了，而且他并不是唯一一个会这样想的人。伴随自由而来的也有代价：孤独与遗憾，还有这样一种感觉，尽管内心深处，你依然觉得自己还是25岁，但你的膝盖开始疼痛，岁月的流逝也越来越快。
“Are you single?” the Manhattan-based matchmaker Maria Avgitidis asked a reporter mid-interview, plunging him into a dark place. “And you are 40? Do you ever feel like all the really good girls that you would want to marry are taken?”
“你是单身吗？”曼哈顿婚恋中介玛丽亚·阿夫吉提蒂斯(Maria Avgitidis)在采访中询问记者，将他投入一个黑暗的领域。“你年过40了吗？你会不会觉得你想娶的好女孩都被别人娶走了？”
Full disclosure: My answer to each of Ms. Avgitidis’s questions was “yes.”
坦白地说，对于阿夫吉提蒂斯的每一个问题，我的回答都是：“对。”
“That is where that panic comes from,” she said. “Like: ‘Why not me? What does he have?’ And then you realize that he is four years younger. And that is exactly where that panic comes from.”
“恐慌感就是这么来的，”她说。“感觉就是：‘为什么不是我？他都拥有什么？’然后你就会发现，他比你年轻四岁。恐慌感就是这么来的。”
‘The Old Guy in the Club’
俱乐部里的老家伙
That stomach-churning fear was perhaps best expressed by the comedian Chris Rock in his 1996 special “Bring the Pain”: “Every man has to settle down eventually. You know why you gotta settle down eventually. Because you don’t want to be the old guy in the club. You know what I’m talking about. Every club you go into, there’s always some old guy. He ain’t really old — just a little too old to be in the club.”
喜剧演员克里斯·拉克(Chris Rock)1996年的特别影片《带来痛苦》(Bring the Pain)或许最能描述这种让人胃里翻江倒海的恐惧感：“所有男人最终都得安定下来。你知道自己为什么最终得安定下来。因为你不想当俱乐部里最老的那个家伙。你知道我在说什么。你去过的每个俱乐部都会有几个老家伙。他其实并不是真的老——只不过对于俱乐部来说有点太老。”
It’s hard to find someone who wants to be that guy. Although few single men are willing to admit to a sense of panic, they know there is always the chance of waking up one morning in a cold sweat.
很少有人愿意当这个男人，尽管没几个单身男人愿意承认这种恐慌感，他们知道，总会有某个早晨，他们醒来，发现自己一身冷汗。
Friends will tell you not to worry. They will cite Tinder and the other magical dating apps hidden in your phone while arguing that you are only a swipe away from sudden cocktails and possibly more.
朋友们会告诉你没什么可担心的。他们会提起Tinder，或者藏在你手机里的什么神奇的约会应用，同时告诉你，你只需用手指轻轻一划，就可以享受约会，甚至还有更多。
But the single men in their 30s and 40s whom I spoke with — gay and straight alike — seemed very much aware that their options were narrowing. While they are not dealing with a reproductive deadline, they had the feeling that the party was nearing its end.
但是和我聊过天的三四十岁的单身男人——不管是同性恋还是异性恋——都会觉得自己的选择日益狭窄。虽然他们并没有生育方面的截止日期，但他们会觉得，派对就要结束了。
“People think that if you are gay and you are single, particularly in the city, that there is this sort of unbridled freedom,” said Ryan Wallace, a 35-year-old who works in corporate communications for a Fortune 200 company. “That you’re at the gym, you’re at the office, you’re at happy hour, and it’s just a constant on-the-go lifestyle. That may be true for part of your life, in your 20s. Gender identities aside, as everyone gets older, your priorities change.”
“人们觉得如果你是同性恋，你还单身，特别是在城市里，这会是一种无拘无束的自由，”35岁的瑞安·沃利斯(Ryan Wallace)说，他在某《财富》全球200强企业的传播公司工作。“你去健身房、去办公室、下班放松，过着忙碌活跃的生活。在20多岁的时候，可能确实如此。性别认同先放在一边，当人上了年纪，最重视的东西就改变了。”
There may be perfectly good reasons that some men who went to college during the Clinton presidency have held on to singledom. Aside from taking pleasure in the feeling of moving untethered through the years, they may have wanted to make sure their careers were on track before starting a family during a rocky economic period.
有些在克林顿担任总统时期就上大学的男人至今单身，他们也许有很好的理由。除了喜欢享受多年来无拘无束的快乐之外，在经济局势不稳定的时代，他们或许也想先保证事业上了正轨，然后再来开始家庭生活。
But what if the moment you finally feel financially secure comes too late? And what if focusing on building a solid career is a pretext for avoiding the big stuff?
但是如果经济上的安全感来得太晚怎么办？专注事业是否只是一个借口，用来回避更大的问题？
“I’m still at work,” said Jonathan Lee, an internal auditor at an international bank who lives on the Upper East Side. “That says a lot.”
“我还在工作，”乔纳森·李(Jonathan Lee)在某国际银行担任内部审计，住在上东区。“这说明了很多东西。”
It was nearly 8 p.m. Mr. Lee said things had been hectic lately, with his work hours reaching close to 60 a week.
此时已经接近晚八点。李说，最近特别忙，他的工作时间接近每周60小时。
“It’s not healthy,” he said. “And I do have a sense of regret. I’m definitely underdeveloped, in terms of dating and relationships, and these are things that take skill and know-how you only get through experience. I just turned 40. Thinking about the math, the longer I wait to start my own family, you start to think, ‘When I consider someone to marry, I have to find someone young enough to have children. And the age difference. What’s acceptable? What’s O.K.? What doesn’t work?’ There are a lot more challenges the older you get, and I realize that now.”
“这不健康，”他说。“我确实有遗憾的感觉。在约会和恋爱这方面，我绝对还欠缺经验，有些技巧和诀窍是只有通过实践才能学会的。我40岁了。从数学的角度看，我等待成立家庭的时间愈长，就越会想，‘当我考虑与某人结婚的时候，我得找一个年轻，能生孩子的。这样就有年龄的差异。这能让人接受吗？这没问题吗？这样能成功吗？’人年纪愈大就会面临愈多挑战，我现在意识到了。”
Mr. Lee and Mr. Choffel, the hairstylist, share little in the way of experience and worldview.
李和发型师科菲在人生经验和世界观方面并没有多少相似之处。
While Mr. Choffel partied his way through his 20s as he climbed toward the peak of his profession, Mr. Lee, who described himself as a devout Christian, tended his career and avoided the weeknight bar scene. Yet both aspire to fatherhood, even as they worry that it may be getting late.
科菲20多岁的时候都在享乐中度过，也达到了自己的事业巅峰，李则说自己是虔诚的基督徒，追求事业，周末晚上不去酒吧。但是两人还都想当父亲，即便他们担心这是不是已经有些迟了。
The same holds true for Scott Slattery, a 35-year-old communications and marketing consultant in Manhattan.
35岁，现居曼哈顿的公关与市场顾问斯科特·斯拉特利(Scott Slattery)也有同感。
Asked if the recent deluge of weddings among those who have taken advantage of the legality of same-sex marriage in New York since 2011 has left him feeling pressed to find the right man, Mr. Slattery said, “I think the pressure is more an age issue than anything like a gay issue.”
自2011年同性婚姻在纽约合法化之后，最近，同性婚礼大量涌现。在被问及是否会因此而感到寻找合适对象的压力时，斯特拉利说，“我觉得压力是来自年龄，而不是来自同性恋的身份。”
In other words, he doesn’t want to be far removed from his youth when he becomes a father.
换言之，他不想年纪太老才当上爸爸。
“I would like to be a parent,” Mr. Slattery said. “Luckily, I don’t have to have the kid. But I still want to take care of them through their entire lives, so I don’t want to be old.”
“我想当父亲，”斯拉特利说。“幸运的是，我不一定要有孩子。但我仍然希望照顾他们一生，所以我不想变老。”
It seems that no single man can make it through his 30s without feeling a pang of regret for the life he could be having, even if it conflicts with his desire to do exactly what he wants all day long.
似乎所有单身男人都曾在30多岁的时候，为自己不曾拥有的生活而感到一阵遗憾。就算他渴望的其实是整天都做自己想做的事，也会一样感到遗憾。
In the Netflix series “Master of None,” the single protagonist, Dev Shah, played by Aziz Ansari, sometimes feels envious of his married friends, even as he fights the desire to settle down.
在Netflix的电视剧《无为大师》(Master of None)里，单身的男主角戴夫·沙(Dev Shah)由阿兹·安萨里(Aziz Ansari)饰演，他有时嫉妒自己已婚的朋友，但他又排斥想安定下来的渴望。
“I used to be terrified of having kids (and I still am to some extent),” Alan Yang, who created the show with Mr. Ansari, wrote in an email. “My sister had a baby a couple of years ago, and the completely adorable nature of my niece has slowly started to change my mind. But it’s still unbelievably scary. You’re going from someone who is completely self-centered to someone for whom there’s something more important than yourself and your own dumb everyday wants.”
“我曾经害怕养育孩子（在某种程度上我现在也仍然害怕），”与安萨里合作创作本剧的艾伦·杨(Alan Yang)在电子邮件中写道。“我的姐妹几年前生了个孩子，可爱的外甥开始慢慢改变了我的心意。但是这仍然可怕得难以置信。你原本完全以自我为中心，但现在有一些东西比你自己和你平庸的日常需求更重要了。”
Paul Gollash, the 40-year-old chief executive of VOXY, an educational tech company for those who want to learn English, decided to become proactive about dating in his late 30s, after realizing he was fed up with being single.
40岁的保罗·高拉什(Paul Gollash)是英语教育技术公司VOXY的首席执行官，快到40岁的时候，他觉得受够了单身，开始积极约会。
He started dragging himself to gatherings that he would have avoided at another time in his life: art exhibits, cocktail parties and work events where he might meet new people.
他先是参加自己原本不愿参加的聚会：艺术展、鸡尾酒会和工作聚会，希望能结识新人。
One rainy Saturday in 2014, after having woken up still exhausted from the night before, he pulled himself out of bed for a wine and cheese party held by friends of friends in Park Slope.
2014年，一个下着雨的星期六，他从睡梦中醒来，前一夜让他醒来后依旧精疲力尽，他还得去参加朋友的朋友在Park Slope举办的红酒奶酪派对。
Once there, among the married couples, he spotted a woman named Maria Cabo whom he had met briefly once before. With the party winding down, Mr. Gollash worked up his courage and walked across the room, where she was seated with other women, all of them speaking Spanish. Not long after, while texting with her, he asked if she would like their first date to be in the Canary Islands, where he was scheduled to give a talk. Ms. Cabo replied with a photo of a swimsuit with a passport.
派对上，在一群已婚人士中间，他发现一个名叫玛利亚·卡波(Maria Cabo)的女人，两人之前短暂地见过一面。在派对快要结束的时候，高拉什鼓起勇气，穿过屋子走向她。她当时正和其他女人坐在一起，都说着西班牙语。不久后，他给她发短信，问她愿不愿意在卡纳利群岛开始他们的第一次约会，他在那儿有个讲座。卡波回复了一张泳装照，也给护照拍了照片发过去。
They were married last May and are now the parents of a baby girl, Greta.
两人于去年5月结婚，有了一个女儿，名叫格里塔(Greta)。
“One of the ironies or lousy parts of getting older is that you do have less energy,” Mr. Gollash said from a hotel suite in Madrid, where he was staying with his wife and daughter. “Dating always requires a lot of energy. When you are in your 20s, you have an abundance of it, right? So you can get out and get in front of people more often and more frequently. When you get older, your job is more intense, you have more demands on your time, and it’s really easy to let the quest for finding a mate slip into the other bucket.”
“随着年纪增长，一件讽刺或者讨厌的事是，你的精力变少了，”高拉什在马德里的酒店套间里说，他和妻子、女儿一同在那里下榻。“约会总是需要不少精力，20多岁的时候，你总是精力充沛，对不对？所以你可以出去，更经常认识人。年纪老了以后，工作更加紧张，需要时间的事情更多，很容易就把寻找伴侣的事搁置起来。”
“At a certain age I became more conscious of the fact that I knew the following year would be better if I was in a loving, committed relationship with someone that I was going to start a family with,” Mr. Gollash said. “I don’t think any of my married friends had any illusions that I was living the dream. Maybe the guys would joke about it, but I would enlist the help of all the wives of my friends, or the women friends in my life, to help me become a better person, to get ready, so when I met the right person, I was in the right head space.”
“到了特定年纪，我开始意识到，我知道接下来的岁月，如果与我的爱人发展一段有承诺的恋爱关系，和对方共建家庭，我会过得更好，”高拉什说。“我觉得我已婚的朋友们不会有任何幻觉，觉得我在过梦想中的生活。或许有人会拿这个开玩笑，但我要感谢所有朋友们的妻子，以及生活中所有的女性朋友，是她们帮助我成为了一个更好的人，去做好准备。所以一旦当我遇到正确的人，我就已经具备了良好的心态。”
Unlike Mr. Gollash, Paul W. Morris, the director of literary programs at the PEN American Center, said he doesn’t want kids and has not resorted to sounding any alarms to let his friends know that he is ready to move on from being single. But that doesn’t mean he would like to stay like this indefinitely.
保罗·W·莫里斯(Paul W. Morris)是PEN美国中心文学项目的总监，和高拉什不一样，他说自己不想要孩子，也并没有拉响警报，让周围的朋友们知道自己打算结束单身。但是这并不意味着他打算永远这样。
This Is 44
这就是44岁
“I want a partner for life,” Mr. Morris said over the phone a few hours before the start of his 44th birthday party. “And sometimes, even with my close friends, I have to remind them about that, because it doesn’t look like I want a partner for life, because I’m not taking active control over seeking it. I could make excuses and say the job is what I’m married to, which, I think, is true.
“我想要一个生活伴侣，”44岁生日派对开始前的几个小时，莫里斯在电话中说。“有时候，就算和最亲密的朋友在一起，我也得提醒他们这一点，因为我并不像是想寻找人生伴侣的人，因为我并没有积极地去寻找。我会找借口，说自己和工作结婚了，我觉得这也是真的。
“I’m committed to the work that PEN does. It can’t be over 100 percent, but it is the overarching story of my life, and that is hard to compete with. And so what I am trying to do is find a better balance and actually try to imagine what a relationship would look like.”
“我全心投入到PEN的工作中去。虽然不是百分之百，但也贯穿了我的生活，其他事情很难比得过工作。所以我试着寻找更好的平衡，试着去想象一段恋爱关系是什么样的。”
At 9 p.m. on this Sunday night, when most single men his age are at home, basking in the light of Netflix or Showtime, he stood among the artists and writers who were celebrating with him at a bar in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn.
周六晚上9点，大多数他这个年纪的单身男子都在家里看Netflix或Showtime的电视剧时，他在布鲁克林的波依兰姆山的一家酒吧里，周围簇拥着为他庆生的艺术家与作家们。
Those who still smoked stepped outside. Mr. Morris looked at all the revelers, who were drinking and starting to dance, and said: “I don’t know if this is what 44 looks like. I know it’s what the end of 43 does.”
有人在外面抽烟，莫里斯望着所有来宾，他们喝酒，开始跳舞，莫里斯说：“我不知道44岁是不是就是这样，我只知道43岁结束时就是这样。”
The next night was when I met with Jean-Marc Choffel at his Manhattan salon. The rain that had sent passers-by under awnings had finally come to a stop. If ever there was a time to step out, it was now. But Mr. Choffel did not budge from the leather swivel chair.
翌日晚上，我在让·马克·科菲在曼哈顿的沙龙里和他见面。下雨了，路人躲到天棚下面，后来雨总算停了。如果能出门，现在最合适不过。但是科菲并没有离开自己的皮革转椅。
“Tonight I’m doing nothing,” he said. “I could go out, grab a girl, have sex, have fun. But the sense of life is to have kids and try to give them as much as you know. I believe in the power of the universe. I believe the day you go somewhere where you aren’t supposed to be, you end up falling in love and having babies. Definitely, I’m not giving up.”
“今晚我什么也不干，”他说。“我可以出去，找个女孩做爱，找乐子。但是人生的意义就是生孩子，然后把你知道的一切都给他们。我相信宇宙的力量。我相信会有一天，你去了一个你本不会去的地方，结果却坠入爱河，生了孩子。我肯定不会放弃的。”