If you wanted to find someone picking a fat tomato this week in the City of New York, you could go see Esther and Pam, near the kiddie-pool planters on the rooftop of the Metro Baptist Church in Hell’s Kitchen. Or Maggie, Benia, Iyeshima and Kristina at the Bushwick Campus Farm and Greenhouse. Or Deborah, Shella, Sarah, Kate, Rachel and Chelsea in the West Indian haven of East New York Farms. Or Kennon, Leah, Jennifer and Charlotte at the Queens County Farm Museum, which has been planted continuously since 1697. Or Mirem, Cecilia and (another) Esther in the converted parking lot outside P.S. 216 in Gravesend. Or Nick, Caspar and Jared, on a one-acre farm and orchard in Randalls Island Park.
在这个星期的纽约，你如果想找谁家挑一颗肥美多汁的番茄，可以去曼哈顿的地狱厨房(Hell’s Kitchen)地区，爬上地铁浸信会教堂(the Metro Baptist Church)的屋顶，在一些由儿童泳池改造的盆栽旁边找到埃丝特(Esther)和帕姆(Pam)；或者去布什维克校园农场与温室(Bushwick Campus Farm and Greenhouse)，找到玛吉(Maggie)、贝妮亚(Benia)、艾耶史马(Iyeshima) 和克里斯蒂娜(Kristina)；再或者，去东纽约农场(East New York Farms)项目中的西印第安港(West Indian haven)，见见黛博拉(Deborah)、希拉(Shella)、莎拉(Sarah)、凯特(Kate)、瑞秋(Rachel)和切尔西(Chelsea)；或者去自1697年起就一直从事种植实践的皇后县农场博物馆(Queens County Farm Museum)，找找肯农(Kennon)、莉亚(Leah)、珍妮弗(Jennifer)和夏洛特(Charlotte)；或到格雷夫森德(Gravesend)的P.S.216学校外，在那片被改建为种植园的停车场里找到米伦姆(Mirem)、塞西莉亚(Cecilia)和（另一位）埃丝特；也可以在兰德尔斯岛公园(Randalls Island Park)那座面积一英亩（约合4047平方米）的农场与果园中，找尼克(Nick)、卡斯帕(Caspar)和杰瑞德(Jared)。
Wait a sec. Nick, Caspar and Jared: Are those unconventional girls’ names now, like Kennedy and Reagan? Because if you’re looking for a farm-fresh tomato in the city this summer, you’re likely to find a woman growing it.
等一下，“尼克”、“卡斯帕”和“杰瑞德”——这几个名字是否就像肯尼迪(Kennedy)和里根(Reagan)一样，现在都是非传统意义上的女孩名字了？因为今年夏天，你若想在这座城市里寻找一颗刚刚采摘的西红柿，就很有可能遇到一位栽种西红柿的女士。
In recent years, chefs, writers, academics, politicians, funders, activists and entrepreneurs have jumped on the hay wagon for urban agriculture. New York now counts some 900 food gardens and farms, by the reckoning of Five Borough Farm, a research and advocacy project.
近些年来，很多厨师、作家、学者、政治家、投资人、活动家和创业人士，都跳上了这趟驶往都市农业的干草车。据一个研究与倡导该模式的“五区农业”(Five Borough Farm)项目评估，纽约市内现在约有900座菜园与农场。
Yet city farmers will tell you that the green-collar work on these small holdings is the province of a largely pink-collar labor force. Cecilia, not Caspar. And they’ll provide the staffing numbers to show it.
不过一些都市农夫会告诉你，这些小小地块上的“绿领”工作，基本都是“粉领”劳动者的天下。这里是“塞西莉亚”的地盘，而不是“卡斯帕”的。而且他们还会用员工人数来证明这一点。
This is where the speculation begins — and, inevitably, the stereotypes. Are women more willing to nurture their communities (and also their beet greens)? Are men preoccupied with techie farm toys like aquaponics? Is gender the reason the radio at the Queens Farm washing station is always stuck on Beyoncé and Alicia Keys?
这就引发了一些思索——不过，也引起一些成见，这是无可避免的。难道这是因为，女人们更愿为自己的社区提供给养（以及她们那些甜菜叶）吗？难道是因为男人们更专注于养耕共生(aquaponics)这类高技术含量的农耕方法吗？难道皇后县农场清洗站内总是播放碧昂丝(Beyoncé)和艾莉西亚·凯斯(Alicia Keys)的歌曲，是因为性别原因吗？
More significant, if urban ag work comes to be seen as women’s work, what will that mean for the movement’s farming model, mission and pay?
更重要的是，如果都市农业逐渐被视为一项属于女性的工作，那么这对于这场种植运动的耕种模式、目标愿景与人员薪资，又将会意味着什么呢？
Counting New York’s urban farmers and market food gardeners can seem like a parlor game: part math, part make-believe. Data on gender is scarce to nonexistent.
要统计纽约的都市农夫与家庭菜农们的数量，可能就像一场抢答问题的室内游戏：一半是计算，一半是虚构。涉及性别方面的数据则更是少得几乎不存在。
The federal 2012 Census of Agriculture isn’t much help. It suggested 42 farm “operators” in New York were men and 31 were women. But the census published data from just 31 city farms. (Under confidentiality rules, it doesn’t reveal which farms participated.) And its definitions fail to capture New York’s unique abundance of nonprofit farms and community gardens.
2012年那次联邦农业普查(Census of Agriculture)也没有多大帮助。该普查表明，纽约市里有42名农场“运营者”为男性，31人是女性。但这项普查所公布的数据只涉及了31家农场（基于保密条例，该数据并未透露哪些农场参与了普查）。而且，该普查的界定方法未能将纽约市独有的大量非盈利性农场和社区种植园包括在内。
A “farm,” by census standards, is any place that grew and sold (or normally would have sold) $1,000 worth of agricultural products in a year. Yet surveys from the parks department’s GreenThumb program suggest that some 45 percent of the city’s hundreds of community food gardens donate their harvest to neighborhood sources and food pantries. Blair Smith, who compiles New York’s data for the U.S.D.A., explained, “Those are not farm businesses, at least from our standpoint.”
依照该普查的标准，一家“农场”是指每年种植、销售（或在正常情况下可以销售）的农作物价值在1000美元（约合人民币6150元）的地方。然而，来自纽约公园局“绿拇指”计划(GreenThumb program)的一些调查表明，在这座城市中数以百计的社区菜园中，约有45%会将他们的收成贡献给自己社区的物资中心和食品橱柜。负责把纽约市的数据汇编后呈交给农业部的布莱尔·史密斯(Blair Smith)解释说，“那些都不是经营性的农场，至少从我们的立场来看不是。”
New York’s urban farmers — the people who actually work in the field — offer a sharply different head count of what you might call bulls and cows. Of the 19 farms and farm programs that contributed information for this article, 15 reported having a majority of women among their leadership, staff, youth workers, students, apprentices and volunteers. (Of the remaining four, one claimed gender parity and another hired two men this summer from a seasonal applicant pool of 18 men and 30 women.)
那些真正在地里干活的纽约都市农夫们，则给出了一份截然不同的、你可将它当做“猜数字”(bulls and cows)游戏的统计数据。在这19个为本文提供了信息的农场及农耕项目中，有15家表示，在他们的领导者、员工、青少年工人、学生、学徒和志愿者当中，大部分都是女性（而在剩下那四家里，有一家宣称人员性别均衡，另一家则于今年夏天从当季的18名男性申请者与30名女性申请者当中，聘请了两名男性。）
It’s a snapshot, not a statistically rigorous poll. Still, the farms, from all five boroughs, represent a broad sample of New York’s particular growing models: a commercial rooftop farm; community gardens; and farms attached to schools, restaurants, parks, churches, housing developments and community organizations. The sample included two city-based farmer-training programs and two out-of-state sustainable farm-education schools and fellowships. These are the types of programs that mold future urban farmers.
这只是一个大致的印象，而不是在数据上要求严谨的投票调查。尽管如此，这些分布于纽约市五大区的农场，也代表了一次范围广泛的采样，体现出纽约市独有的一些种植模式：商业化的屋顶农场，社区内的种植园，以及那些附属于学校、餐厅、公园、教堂、住宅开发项目和社区组织的农场。这份采样包括了两个全市范围的种植者培训项目，以及两所设立于州外的可持续农业教育学校与社团。上述这些，都是塑造未来都市农夫的项目类型。
Describing their own farms and gardens, managers suggested that women make up 60 to 80 percent of field workers, organizers and educators. Applicant pools are similarly unbalanced for summer postings, internships and certification programs.
一些经营者在描述自己的农场与种植园时提到，女性的人数在所有田间工作者、组织者和教育者中，占到了60%至80%。在申请暑期工作、实习和证书培训的人里，男女比例也有类似的不平衡现象。
Farm School NYC, an affiliate of the food-access nonprofit Just Food, “is 100 percent female-run,” said its director, Onika Abraham. But then, she added, “I’m the only staff person.”
一家隶属于食品流通类非盈利组织Just Food的纽约市农场学校(Farm School NYC)，“是百分百由女性经营的机构，”该组织的负责人欧尼卡·亚伯拉罕(Onika Abraham)说。不过然后她又补充说，“我是该组织唯一的员工。”
More important, Farm School NYC receives 150 to 200 applicants annually for professional agriculture instruction. For this year’s entering 30-person class, Ms. Abraham said, “the breakdown for applicants was 76 percent women and 24 percent male.” (Applications for next year are open through Sept. 15.)
更重要的是，纽约市农场学校每年接收150至200名申请人，对其进行专业的农业培训。就今年刚入学的30人班级而言，亚伯拉罕说，“申请人的构成是女性76%，男性24%。”（明年的入学申请将于9月15日截止）。
The gender divide appears to exist in salaried posts and volunteer work alike. For 18 years, Steve Frillmann has led Green Guerillas, which provides support and materials to more than 200 community garden groups. Most of these sites lie in central Brooklyn, Harlem and the South Bronx, and three-quarters of their volunteer leaders, he estimates, are women. So, too, women typically represent 75 to 80 percent of the applicants who want to join Green Guerillas on an AmeriCorps stipend.
这种性别分化的现象，似乎也同样存在于一些带薪岗位和志愿者工作中。18年来，史蒂夫·弗里尔曼(Steve Frillmann)一直领导着Green Guerillas，该机构为超过200家社区种植园机构提供补给与材料。这些种植园的位置大多位于布鲁克林的中心区、哈莱姆区和南布朗克斯区。而据他估计，他们有四分之三的志愿者领导者都是女性。同样的，在那些为了领取美国志愿队(AmeriCorps)津贴而希望加入Green Guerillas的申请者当中，女性通常也占了75%至80%。
It’s challenging work, and Mr. Frillmann, 49, is happy to hire whoever wants to do it. “To be honest with you, we’ve never really lifted and looked under the hood and tried to figure out why,” he said.
这是一项具有挑战性的工作，而且今年49岁的弗里尔曼很高兴聘请任何想做这份工作的人。“老实对你说，我们从没真正揭开过这个问题的面纱，看清楚下面的情况，并想明白这是为什么。”他说。
At the extreme, Edible Schoolyard NYC runs a food and garden-teaching program with two growing plots and a staff of 16. Sixteen of these employees are women.
最极端的例子，要数纽约市农作物校园(Edible Schoolyard NYC)运营着的一项作物种植与园艺教学项目了。该项目拥有两块种植土地及16名工作人员，其中16名都是女性。
Kate Brashares, 40, who is the group’s executive director, said: “It’s a little unusual we don’t have any men on staff at the moment. There are usually one or two.”
该组织的常务理事、今年40岁的凯特·布拉谢尔斯(Kate Brashares)说：“我们目前的员工当中没有任何男性，这确实有点不同寻常。通常是有一至两名的。”
Ms. Brashares believes that the diversity of her employees should reflect the low-income communities where they work. That diversity includes gender. “We talk about wanting to get a few more men in the place,” she said. “It’s funny, we haven’t talked about it that much, though. It’s one of those things that just sort of happened. As we’ve gotten bigger, it’s gotten more obvious.”
布拉谢尔斯认为，其雇员的多样性状况，应该反映出他们所在的这个低收入社区的情况。这个多样性中包括性别方面。“我们商量着，想多找几名男性来这里，”她说，“这挺逗的，不过我们尚未进行详细的讨论。这应该会是那种自然而然发生的事吧。随着我们的规模越来越大，这也就越来越显而易见了。”
Less obvious is why the discrepancy exists. Ms. Brashares speculated about the prevalence of women in education and nonprofit careers. But ultimately, she concluded, “I honestly don’t know.”
不那么显而易见的是，这种差异为什么会存在。布拉谢尔斯对教育和非盈利事业中普遍都是女性的问题进行了思考。但最终，她做出了这样的结论，“我真的不知道。”
•
Karen Washington has been observing the community garden scene for more than 25 years from her plot in the Garden of Happiness, a couple of blocks from the Bronx Zoo. She also organizes the Black Urban Growers conference and a long list of other food and neighborhood initiatives. This roster may explain why Ms. Washington, 60, is prone to make work calls at 10 o’clock at night, say, after teaching a class on season-extending hoop houses, or on the way home from running La Familia Verde farmers’ market.
凯伦·华盛顿(Karen Washington)通过自己在幸福花园(Garden of Happiness)的那一小块土地观察社区种植园的情况已超过25年，那里离布朗克斯动物园(Bronx Zoo)只有几个街区。她还组织了“黑人城市种植者”(Black Urban Growers)大会，并列出一份其它农作物与社区倡议组织的长名单。这份花名册或许就可以解释，为什么年届六旬的华盛顿喜欢在晚上10点钟拨打工作电话了。比如在延长季节的温室大棚旁，教完一节课后；或是打理过La Familia Verde农贸市场社区种植园后，在下班回家的路上。
Nowadays, she sees a cohort in her gardens that she gauges to be 80 percent women. “It was more 60/40 back in the early days,” Ms. Washington said. “Mostly Southern blacks and Puerto Ricans. They were in their 40s and they’re in their 80s now.”
如今，据她估计，她在种植园里见到的这群人里80%都是女性。“而回想早期的情形，男性与女性的比例更有可能是60/40，”华盛顿说，“大多是南方的黑人与波多黎各人(Puerto Ricans)。以前女性有40多名，而现在是80多名。”
Explaining the gender gap on a community garden level, she said, “a lot of it, from my point of view, had to do with the fact women lived longer than men.”
从社区种植园的层面上，要解释这种性别差距，她说，“大部分原因，从我的角度来看，在于女人比男人更长寿这个事实。”
The stereotypical image of an American farmer may be a white man of late middle age captaining a $450,000 combine in an air-conditioned cockpit, high above a flokati of corn. But this profile is a poor match for farmers in Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia and Africa — that is, the groups that often predominate in New York’s community food gardens. Nevin Cohen, 52, an assistant professor at the New School and an expert on urban food issues, points to a telling statistic from a United Nations special rapporteur: “Women are 80 percent of the global agricultural labor force.”
提起美国农民，人们的固有印象可能是一名白人男性，年届中旬，驾驶着一台45万美元（约合人民币276万元）的联合收割机，坐在空调驾驶室内，下方是一片厚绒毯似的玉米田。不过，这一套描述同那些拉丁美洲、加勒比地区、亚洲和非洲的农民没有丝毫联系——而他们，通常正是在纽约市的社区菜园中占绝大多数的群体。今年52岁的内文·科恩(Nevin Cohen)是新学校(New School)的一位助理教授，也是城市食品问题方面的专家。他指出了来自一位联合国专员的一项极有说服力的数字：“在全球农业劳动力人口当中，女性占了80%。” 
Many of the women who farm in Bushwick with Maggie Cheney possess experience in small-scale agriculture. They’ve long fed their families out of extensive kitchen gardens (as Colonial-era immigrant women did in New England). Ms. Cheney, 30, is the director of farming and education for the food-access group EcoStation:NY. And on the group’s two growing sites, she said: “I tend to work with a lot of recent immigrants from Africa, Mexico, Ecuador. And the islands: Jamaica and Haiti, the Dominican Republic.”
许多与玛吉·切尼(Maggie Cheney)一起在布什维克区从事种植的女性，都拥有小规模农业方面的经验。她们一直都在用产自大片厨房菜园里的食物为家人做菜（就像殖民时代移居到新英格兰的那些女人们一样）。今年30岁的切尼是一家食品流通组织EcoStation:NY的耕种与教育部主管。谈及该组织的两个培育基地时，她说：“我一般会与很多刚从非洲、墨西哥、厄瓜多尔来的移民一起工作。还有从牙买加、海地和多米尼加共和国(Dominican Republic)这几座岛屿来的人。”
Ms. Cheney’s youth interns (five boys and nine girls) include the children of some of those immigrants. Yet wherever they were born, the youth growers at the Bushwick Campus Farm do not approach New York gardens as virgin soil.
切尼的几名年轻实习生（5名男孩和9名女孩）当中，就有那些移民的孩子。然而，无论他们出生在何处，这些身处布什维克区校园农场的年轻种植者们，在纽约市的菜园里干起活儿来，并不像是第一次下地耕种的。
Their fathers may have experienced farm labor as a harsh and exploitative activity, Ms. Cheney said. These men are not necessarily the easiest people to recruit for a hot afternoon of unearthing potatoes. By contrast, “I see a lot of girls interested because they may have that positive relationship to being the ones who cook in the family and buy the food in the market.”
他们的父辈可能有过在田间劳作的经历，那种劳作可以看成是一种艰辛的开拓活动，切尼说。如果想要找人在一个炎热的下午去地里挖土豆，这些男人并不一定是最容易召集到的人。相比之下，“我看见许多女孩对此都很有兴趣，因为她们可能是那些负责外出买菜和在家煮饭的人，也就与这件事有一种必然的关系。”
She added, “The ones that I see, their roles at home are very gendered.” The politics of the New York “food justice” movement start at progressive and run to radical. But the connection between women and urban farming can appear traditional and even conservative.
她补充道，“我所见到的那些人，其家庭角色的分工就是非常性别化的。”纽约市一项名为“食物公平”(food justice)的政治活动正在如火如荼地展开，而且正变得愈发激进。但女性与城市农耕之间的联系可能仍显得很传统，甚至很保守。
Born and raised on the Lower East Side, Ms. Abraham, 40, recalls visiting her family’s black farmstead in Alabama. She said: “My grandfather grew row crops: cotton, soybeans and corn. He worked the fields. My grandma was home with a large vegetable garden and chickens.”
今年40岁的亚伯拉罕出生并成长于曼哈顿的下东区(Lower East Side)。她回忆起曾去过的阿拉巴马州(Alabama)、她家人经营的一座黑人农庄时说：“我的祖父栽种一些行栽作物，比如棉花、大豆和玉米，他在田间劳作。而我的祖母在家养鸡，并打理着一大片菜园。”
Put another way: “My grandmother grew the food; he grew the money. And I think maybe the scale of what we do in the city relates more to this kitchen garden.”
换句话说：“我的祖母栽种可以吃的东西；而我的祖父种植可以赚钱的东西。所以我想，我们在城里做的这些事情更接近于这种厨房菜园。”
•
The Five Borough Farm project identified three commercial farms in New York, all of them sophisticated rooftop operations. Gotham Greens, for example, runs two (and soon three) climate-controlled hydroponic greenhouses in Gowanus and Greenpoint, Brooklyn. (Next stop: Jamaica, Queens.)
“五区农业”项目认定了纽约市的三家经营性农场，它们全都是精巧而复杂的屋顶农场。例如“哥谭绿地”(Gotham Greens)在布鲁克林的郭瓦纳斯(Gowanus)和绿点区经营着两个（很快将是三个）能控制内部气温的水耕温室（下一站：皇后区的牙买加[Jamaica]）。
Of the company’s 50-odd employees, more than two-thirds are men, said the company’s 33-year-old co-founder, Viraj Puri. “At Gotham Greens, our approach is more plant-science and engineering focused and less ‘gardening’ focused,” Mr. Puri wrote in an email. He posited that this orientation may account for the different gender skew.
在这家公司的50多名员工当中，有超过三分之二是男性，该公司33岁的联合创始人维拉吉·普里(Viraj Puri)说。“在‘哥谭绿地’，我们的经营方式更注重科学种植与工程辅助，其次才关注‘园艺’，”普里在一封电邮中写道。他认为，那种偏园艺的倾向可能是导致性别不平衡的原因。
Beyond these few enterprises, the city’s farms exist not just to grow okra, but to advance a shopping list of social goals. These include recreation, nutrition, public health, environmental stewardship, ecological services, food access and security, community development, neighborhood cohesion, job training, senior engagement and education. We ask a lot of our gardens.
除了这几家企业外，纽约市的农场之所以存在，不只是为了种植秋葵，还是为了衍生出一份囊括诸多社会目标的采购清单。这些目标包括休闲、营养、公共健康、环境管理，生态服务、食品获取及安全、社区发展、邻里和谐、工作培训、老年人参与，以及教育。我们要求有大量这样的种植园。
Mara Gittleman, who jointly runs the Kingsborough Community College farm program, at the end of Manhattan Beach, often sees urban farming likened in the news media to “the new social work, or this thing you do for poor people.” In response, Ms. Gittleman, 26, founded the research project Farming Concrete to record and publicize the surprising yield raised in community gardens. These are vegetables that come not from the glittering glass on high, but from the ground up.
在曼哈顿海滩(Manhattan Beach)的尽头，一起参与运营金斯伯勒社区大学(Kingsborough Community College)农场项目的玛拉·吉特尔曼(Mara Gittleman)，常常见到城市农场在新闻媒体中被比作“一种新型的社会工作，或是你为穷人所做的事”。作为回应，26岁的吉特尔曼发起一个名为Farming Concrete的项目，来记录和发布在社区菜园里获得的惊人成果。这些蔬菜都是土地里种出来的，而非来自高楼上的瓶瓶罐罐。
Be that as it may, if you’re trying to account for why so many college-educated women are attracted to urban agriculture, nearly everyone agrees that a social calling is the place to start. “Definitely, the most visible influx is young white people, and I’m one of them,” Ms. Gittleman said.
尽管如此，如果你想弄清楚，为何有那么多接受过大学教育的女性都深受都市农业吸引，几乎每个人都会告诉你，他们最开始做这件事是出于一种社会使命感。“毋庸置疑，在蜂拥而来的人当中，最明显的是白人青年，我就是其中一员。”吉特尔曼说。
If urban farming were just about the crops, it would be cheaper and easier to do it 50 miles north. Urban farming, however, is not a solitary or single-minded activity. Along with the weeding and pruning, the job description includes sowing community interest and reaping grants.
如果都市农业所涉及的只是庄稼，那么在往北50英里（约80公里）的地方，这件事做起来会更容易，成本也更低。然而，都市农业不是那种与世隔绝、或枯燥单一的活动。这项工作不单单是除草、剪枝，其描述中还包括为社区播下兴趣的种子并收获相应的报偿。
Kennon Kay, the 31-year-old director of agriculture at Queens Farm, said: “What makes this farm different is the element of public interaction. We have over half a million visitors a year.”
今年31岁的皇后区农场主管凯诺·凯伊(Kennon Kay)说：“让这座农场与众不同的是公众互动的元素。我们每年有超过50万的参观者。”
The farm staff currently numbers two men and five women, which is actually a bumper crop of gents. And Ms. Kay takes pains to say: “I don’t want to knock the guys. They’re great.”
目前，这座农场的员工当中有两名男性和五名女性，从招收男性的角度看，这实在是一场大丰收。凯伊意味深长地说：“我不想挑剔这些伙计们。他们很棒。”
That said, in her experience, “Women have been extremely effective in multitasking, planning, communicating and being the representatives of this public organization.”
她说，从她的经验来看，“女人们在多任务执行、安排计划、进行沟通，以及成为该公共组织的代表等方面，一直都极为有效率。”
Inevitably, there’s an inverse to saying that women are attracted to work that involves children and the elderly, caring and social justice. In short, you’re implying that men don’t care, or care a lot less.
无可避免的是，还有一种与此相对的说法认为，那些涉及孩子与老人、护理与社会公正等方面的工作，也吸引了女性。简单说，言下之意就是，男人们都不关心、或很少去关心这些。
This is what you might call the men-as-sociopaths hypothesis (M.A.S.H.), and Nick Storrs, 29, who manages the Randalls Island Park Alliance Urban Farm, does not buy it. “I would refute the claim that guys are sociopaths,” he said.
这或许就是所谓的“男人都不爱社交假说”(men-as-sociopaths hypothesis，M.A.S.H.)吧，但是，兰德尔斯岛公园联合都市农场(Randalls Island Park Alliance Urban Farm)的管理者、29岁的尼克·斯托尔斯(Nick Storrs)并不同意这样的看法。“我可以证明，所谓男人都不爱社交的说法是不对的。”他说。
Having cheerfully dispensed with that libel, he struggled to explain why men seem less interested in the social goals of community agriculture. “I don’t know, because I am interested in it,” Mr. Storrs said.
在爽朗地抛开那样的诋毁后，他企图解释，为何男人们都似乎对社区农业的那些社会目标不太感兴趣。“我不知道，因为我对这件事就很感兴趣。”斯托尔斯说。
So where are the men?
那么男人们都去哪儿了呢？
“Wall Street,” Ms. Washington said (a theory that may not be inconsistent with M.A.S.H.).
“华尔街，”华盛顿说（这个理论可能就与“男人不爱社交说”不太相符了）。
The Bronx’s vegetable plots, she will tell you, are not insulated from what goes on outside the garden gates. “A lot of our men of color are incarcerated,” she said. “Huge problem. If you tell a 21-year-old man just out of jail to go into farming, he’s going to look at you as if you have two heads.”
她会告诉你说，布朗克斯区的这些菜地并没有同门外的世界隔离。“我们很多有色人种的男性都关在监狱里，”她说，“这是个大问题。如果你告诉一名刚从监狱里出来的21岁的男人去农场工作，他会怪异地看着你，就好像你长了两个脑袋似的。”
Or in the words of Esther Liu, 25, a rooftop farmer at the Hell’s Kitchen Farm Project: “Men? Perhaps they want a living wage.”
或者借用地狱厨房农场项目的一名屋顶菜农、今年25岁的埃丝特·刘(Esther Liu)曾说过的那句话：“男人？他们想要的可能是一份养家糊口的薪水吧。”
•
The time has arrived, as it always does, to talk about money. The pay for community-based agriculture starts low and climbs over time to not much higher.
老调常谈，该说说钱的事儿了。对于社区性农业，其薪水起点很低，而且从长远来看，涨薪的幅度也不会太高。
Ms. Cheney endeavors to pay her youth interns $8.30 to $9.30 an hour and the Bushwick farm managers $17 an hour. Farmers with longer tenure may earn $20. These are decent wages in agriculture, Ms. Cheney said. Yet they’re hardly enough to keep up with the climbing rents in a gentrifying neighborhood.
切尼竭尽所能，给她的年轻实习生们提供了每小时8.3美元（约合人民币51元）至9.3美元（约合人民币57元）的薪水；而布什维克农场管理者们的薪水是每小时17美元（约合人民币104元）；那些长期受聘的种植者们，每小时可能赚到20美元（约合人民币123元）。这些，在农业领域都是体面的薪水，切尼说。然而，它们仍难跟上士绅化社区中不断攀升的租金。
Deborah Greig, 32, oversees the crowded market at East New York Farms, leads the gardener-education program, manages dozens of youth workers, and cultivates specialty crops like dasheen and bitter melon. (And some 65 to 70 percent of her farm staff, apprentices and youth interns are women.) “I get paid $37,000 a year,” Ms. Greig said. “I started at $28,000 or $29,000, which was huge at the time. And I have insurance included.”
今年32岁的黛博拉·格雷格(Deborah Greig)负责监管东纽约农场的那个熙熙攘攘的市场，还在领导一项种植者培训计划，她的手下管理着几十名年轻工人，还培育了一些特殊的农作物，比如芋头和苦瓜（她的农场成员、学徒与青年实习生有大约65%至70%都是女性）。“我的年薪是3.7万美元（约合人民币22.7万元），”格雷格说，“我当年的起薪是2.8万美元（约合人民币17.2万元）或2.9万美元（约合人民币17.8万元），这在当时是非常高的薪水了。而且我还享受社保。”
The permanence of the job, which she has held for seven years, is a boon to Ms. Greig and to the community where she works. Ultimately, Ms. Abraham, of Farm School NYC, argues that only stable employment will make urban farming viable for neighborhood women — and men — who lack the safety net of a college degree and family support.
这份她已从事了七年之久的工作，很具稳定性，这无论是对格雷格还是对她所服务的社区而言，都是一种福利。从根本上看，纽约市农场学校的亚伯拉罕说，对于那些既没大学文凭，又没有家庭支持作为“安全网”的社区女性——及男性——来说，只有稳定的雇佣关系才会让都市农场这件事切实可行。