DANNEMORA, N.Y. — The New York State Police and other law enforcement agencies were continuing on Sunday to hunt for two fugitive murderers in the wilderness and rural communities of northern New York, a day after the two men escaped from the maximum-security state prison here.
纽约州丹尼莫拉——周日，纽约州警察局等执法机构继续在该州北部的荒野和乡村地区追捕两名在逃的谋杀犯。一天前，这两名逃犯从这里的一座最高安保级别的州级监狱越狱。
In a news conference on Sunday afternoon, officials said investigators were sifting through more than 150 leads. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced that the state was offering a $100,000 reward for information leading to the capture of the inmates, or $50,000 for tips leading to each one.
官员在周日下午的新闻发布会上称，调查人员正在对150多条线索进行筛查。纽约州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)宣布，州政府将分别悬赏10万美元（约合62万元人民币）和5万美元，寻找能抓捕到这两人或其中任何一人的线索。
“This is a crisis situation for the state,” the governor said. “These are dangerous men. They are capable of committing grave crimes once again.”
“这对于纽约州来说是一个危机情况，”州长称。“他们两人是危险人物，有能力再次犯下重罪。”
Duping guards with dummies fashioned out of sweatshirts and using power tools to drill out of their cells at the Clinton Correctional Facility, the men made their getaway late Friday or early Saturday, emerging on the other side of the prison's 30-foot-tall walls, officials said.
官方称，这两人用运动衫做成假人骗过保安，并用电动工具钻开克林顿惩教所(Clinton Correctional Facility)的牢房，于周五深夜或周六凌晨时分成功越狱，出现在这座监狱30英尺（约合9米）高的围墙的另一侧。
Officials said they were not ruling out any possibilities in their search, and the governor said residents across the state should be on alert. The men could be together, separate or with others, in New York, in a neighboring state, or even in Canada, he said.
官员表示，他们在搜索过程中不会排除任何可能性。州长则称，纽约州各地的居民都应保持警惕。他说，这两人可能在一起，也可能已经分开，或与其他人汇合；他们可能身处纽约，也可能在邻州，甚至是加拿大。
“With the sophistication they have shown,” Cuomo said, “I would not rule out that they may have acquired an automobile and planned to rendezvous with someone.”
“根据他们表现出来的娴熟技巧，”库默说，“我不能排除他们获得了一辆汽车并准备与他人汇合的可能性。”
The governor said the escape took at least “a number of days” to execute and involved cutting through pipes and walls that were 2 feet thick. He said officials were confident that the men worked from the inside to get out.
州长称，这次越狱至少花了“好些天”的时间来执行，需要切断管道，并打通2英尺厚的墙壁。他说，官方确信逃犯是从内部采取行动来越狱的。
In an interview with ABC's “Good Morning America” broadcast earlier Sunday, Cuomo said that investigators were trying to determine how the men acquired the tools — and used them — to drill through steel walls, pipes and stone walls in fashioning a subterranean escape route without detection.
周日早些时候接受ABC电视台的节目《早安美国》(Good Morning America)采访时，库默表示，调查人员正在努力查明，他们如何获取并利用工具钻透钢墙、管道和石墙，凿出地下逃跑通道而没有被发现。
But, even more pressing, the governor said, was the manhunt.
但州长表示，更为紧迫的事情是追捕逃犯。
“The first order of business is to get these killers back,” the governor said.
“第一要务是将这些谋杀犯抓回来，”库默说。
The governor marveled at the particulars of the escape, in which the two inmates had cut through a steel wall of their adjacent cells, shinnied down a series of internal catwalks, and burrowed their way more than a city block away before emerging from a manhole.
此次越狱行动的细节让库默震惊：两名囚犯钻透相邻牢房的一堵钢墙，从一系列的内部狭窄通道爬下去，挖了一条比一个城市街区还要长的通道，最后从一个检修孔出逃。
Cuomo said that there had been a number of contractors working in the facility, and that the escapees' work may have been safeguarded by the silence of other prisoners.
库默表示，事发时有几家承包商在监狱里工作，而其他囚犯可能对逃犯的挖掘活动保持沉默，从而予以了掩护。
“I chatted with a couple of the inmates myself and said, `You must be a very heavy sleeper,”' the governor said. “They were heard, they had to be heard.”
“我本人跟几名囚犯聊过，对他们说，‘你们肯定睡得很沉，’”州长说。“能听到他们活动的声音，肯定能听到。”
The governor gave no updates on the status of the search, but the police and other law enforcement officers had already fanned out into area surrounding the prison on Sunday.
库默没有透露搜索工作的最新进展，但警方及其他执法人员已于周日散布至这座监狱的周边区域。
Overnight, police officers in bulletproof vests and armed with rifles manned roadblocks on routes leading to and from the town, peering into cars and checking trunks as red flares lit up the pavement on a chilly night.
身穿防弹背心、携带步枪的警察通宵在进出该镇的通道上设置路障，检查汽车和后备厢。寒夜之中，闪烁着的红色灯光点亮了人行道。
Floodlights filled the street around the prison, whose thick walls loomed high over the north side of the town's main street, which was closed to most traffic. Dozens of law enforcement officials stood guard in a nearby neighborhood where the two escapees had emerged from a manhole.
强力照明灯把这座监狱周边的街道照得通亮。监狱的厚墙耸立在该镇主干道的北边，那里禁止大部分车辆通过。数十名执法人员在附近的一个街区站岗，两名逃犯就是通过那里的一个检修孔出逃的。