A driver with a history of drunken driving arrests plowed through crowds of pedestrians on packed sidewalks along three Times Square blocks Thursday, killing one person and injuring 22 others, officials said, touching off mayhem in one of the world’s most famous and busiest plazas.
官员表示，本周四，一名有数次酒驾被捕案底的司机开车冲上时报广场人潮涌动的人行道，向前开了三个街区，在世界上最著名、最繁忙的广场之一犯下重罪，造成一人死亡，22人受伤。
The driver, Richard Rojas, 26, was taken into custody after a traffic agent tackled him as he fled from his car, a maroon Honda that came to a stop after ramming into stanchions at the corner of 45th Street and Broadway.
这辆栗色的本田车在45大街和百老汇拐角处撞上了柱子后停了下来，26岁的司机理查德·罗哈斯(Richard Rojas)跳车逃走时，被一名交通执法人员抓住，他现已被拘留。
The panic provoked by a car speeding on sidewalks in the heart of Manhattan immediately evoked the specter of terrorism, but law enforcement officials said they had determined that did not seem to have a role in the episode.
一辆汽车高速冲上曼哈顿中心的人行道引发的恐慌，唤起了人们对恐怖主义的恐惧，但执法人员表示，他们已经确认此事和恐怖主义没有任何关联。
“Based on information we have at this moment, there is no indication that this was an act of terrorism,” Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters at a news conference in Times Square. “We all feel deeply right now for those who were injured and for their families.”
“从目前我们掌握的情况来看，这不是恐怖主义活动，”纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在时报广场的新闻发布会上告诉记者。“我们所有人对于伤者及其家属都感同身受。”
A few blocks away from where the mayor spoke, the Honda sat tilted on bollards, its right wheels in the air and its front hood crumpled, as detectives and investigators canvassed the area.
在市长发言位置的几个街区之外，那辆本田斜靠在护柱上，右边车轮悬在空中，前盖卷起，侦探和调查人员正在对该地区进行彻底检查。
Officials said that the deadly rampage had begun around noon near 42nd Street, when Mr. Rojas, traveling south on Seventh Avenue, inexplicably made a quick U-turn, mounted a curb on the west side of the one-way avenue and began to drive north against traffic.
官员表示，正午前后，在42街附近发生了这起致人死伤的碾压事故，当时在第七大道南行的罗哈斯，令人费解地做了一个疾速的大转弯，在这条单行道的西侧冲上人行道，然后一路向北逆行。
Witnesses described their horror at seeing a car race through the area, which was thronged with tourists, workers and otherpassers-by on a sultry afternoon.
目击者描述了当时的恐怖场面：在一个闷热的下午，路上挤满游客、上班族和其他路人，他们看到一辆车快速碾压过去。
Annie Donahey, 24, had just left work on Seventh Avenue between 42nd and 43rd Streets when the car sped past her and slammed into pedestrians on the sidewalk.
24岁的安妮·多纳希(Annie Donahey)当时刚刚下班，走在第42大街和第43街之间的第七大道上，她看到那辆车疾驰而过，撞倒人行道上的行人。
“It was going at a fast rate of speed and to me it looked like it was trying to hit as many people as possible,” she said. “People were trying to jump out of the way.”
她说：“我觉得车的速度很快，好像是要撞倒尽可能多的人。人们纷纷试图躲开。”
An 18-year-old woman who was walking with her 13-year-old sister on a sidewalk between 42nd and 43rd Streets was killed, officials said. The police did not provide the dead woman’s name; her sister was also injured, they said.
官方表示，身亡的是一名18岁的女子，当时她和13岁的妹妹一起走在42至43街的人行道上。警察没有给出死者的名字；他们说，她的妹妹也受了伤。
Four other people were critically injured after sustaining multiple fractures and traumas, Daniel P. Nigro, the fire commissioner said. They were taken to two different hospitals. Three other people were also taken to hospitals in serious condition. The other victims had less serious injuries.
消防专员丹尼尔·P·尼格罗(Daniel P. Nigro)说，另外有四人重伤，身上有多处骨折和外伤。他们被送到两家不同的医院。另外有三个被送往医院的人伤势也比较重。其他受害者伤势较轻。
Mr. Rojas, who lives in the Bronx, had not been formally charged by Thursday afternoon. He was scheduled to undergo testing for the presence of drugs or alcohol in his system, officials said.
罗哈斯居住在布朗克斯，周四下午没有遭到正式指控。官员表示，他要接受毒品或酒精检测。
Mr. Rojas, a Navy veteran, was arrested for drunken driving twice, in Queens in 2008, and in Manhattan in 2015, officials said. He was also recently arrested for menacing, officials said.
官方表示，他是一名海军退伍军人，之前曾两次因为醉驾被捕，一次是2008年在皇后区，另一次是2015年在曼哈顿。官方表示，最近他还因为威胁别人遭到过逮捕。
Sharif White, who sells T-shirts and hats at the corner of 44th Street and Seventh Avenue, stood next to a woman who was lying on her back on a sidewalk and surrounded by paramedics.
谢里夫·怀特(Sharif White)在第44街和第七大道的拐角处卖T恤和帽子，他站在一名伤者的旁边。受伤的女子仰面躺在地上，周围是医护人员。
“It hit her,” Mr. White said of the car, pointing to the woman, who was moaning in pain. “And it hit a couple of other people. Then the next thing I know it went straight down to 45th. It just was doing like about 100 miles per hour and then the car crashed.”
“那辆车撞倒了她，”怀特指着正在痛苦呻吟的女人说。“而且还撞倒了其他几个人。然后我就看到它冲到45街去了。车的速度大约是每小时100英里（约合160公里），之后车撞停了。”
The car’s bumper sat nearby in the middle of the sidewalk. Magdy Tawfik, a hot dog vendor whose stand was near the corner, said the car had hit three people there.
汽车的保险杠落在人行道中间。马格迪·陶菲克(Magdy Tawfik)是一名热狗摊贩，他的小吃车也在那个拐角处附近，他说，汽车在那里撞倒了三个人。
“The car sped through here, it was moving so fast, and it crushed all these people,” he said.
他说：“那辆车从这里冲过，速度非常快，把这些人撞倒了。”
A victim in a neck brace was taken away in a wheelchair.
一名戴着脖套的伤者坐在轮椅上被带走。