Every neighborhood has its stepchild, an overlooked swath that does not receive as much attention as surrounding blocks. For Midtown East, that area is around East 57th Street near Bloomingdale’s, a strip with neither the commercial bustle found farther south, nor the rarefied character of its decidedly residential neighbors Sutton Place and the Upper East Side. But several new developments could soon give the area a residential flavor all its own.
每处社区里，都会有一个受冷落的角落，不像周边的街区那么受重视。在中城东区(Midtown East)，这样的街区就位于布鲁明戴尔百货商店(Bloomingdale's)附近的东57街一带。这里既没有南面商业区那么熙熙攘攘，又不像旁边的萨顿广场(Sutton Place)和上东区这类住宅区那么有特色。但是，好几个新的开发项目很快就将赋予其独特的生活气息。
Spurred by the success of trophy skyscrapers like 432 Park Avenue, developers are planning luxury residential towers that could reshape the area between Park Avenue and Second Avenue from 57th Street to 60th Street.
由于公园大道(Park Avenue)432号等高端摩天大楼项目大获成功，开发商们受到鼓舞，纷纷开始筹建豪华住宅大楼，这批建筑可能会重塑公园大道(Park Avenue)至第二大道(Second Avenue)间，从第57至60街这片地区的面貌。
At the corner of Second Avenue, sales recently began at 252 East 57th Street, a 65-story residential tower. And at 520 Park Avenue, on the edge of the Upper East Side at 60th Street, a 54-story limestone tower designed by Robert A. M. Stern Architects is rising with a triplex penthouse priced at a jaw-dropping $130 million. Developers are also assembling parcels around Bloomingdale’s while new developments rise in the lower 60s, blurring the boundary between Midtown East and the Upper East Side.
在第二大道的一角，东57街252号那栋65层住宅大楼的销售工作最近已经开始。而在公园大道520号，也就是上东区边缘的第60街，一座由罗伯特·斯特恩建筑师事务所(Robert A. M. Stern Architects)设计的54层石灰岩大楼正拔地而起，其三层复式顶层公寓的价格达到了令人瞠目结舌的1.3亿美元（约合人民币8亿元）。此外，开发商们正在布鲁明戴尔百货商店附近集中零散的地皮，而新的开发项目也在第60至65街拔地而起，它们模糊了中城东区和上东区的界限。
“It is an area that has kind of been forgotten and not developed as much in recent years,” said Gabby Warshawer, the director of research and communications for CityRealty. “It’s finally having its day.”
“近年来，这个地区一直有些被忽略了，开发得没那么多，”CityRealty的研究和传播总监加比·沃肖尔(Gabby Warshawer)说，“现在它终于迎来了好时候。”
The World Wide Group, which is developing 252 East 57th Street with Rose Associates, hopes to attract Upper East Side buyers looking for new construction, as well as international buyers. The 65-story tower will include 93 condominiums beginning on the 36th floor, so all these units will enjoy desirable city views. The lower half of the building will include 173 luxury rentals. Prices for condos start at $4.5 million for a two-bedroom, and the penthouse, which is not on the market yet, will be listed for $37.5 million. Other units include a five-bedroom listed for $21.25 million. For another $250,000, residents can buy a parking spot. Prices have not been set for the rentals, which will begin leasing closer to the time the building opens in late 2016.
World Wide集团正在和Rose Associates一起开发东57街252号，该公司希望能够吸引正在寻找新楼盘的上东区买家及国际买家。这栋65层的大楼，将从36楼起包含93套共管公寓(condominium)，这样一来，所有单元就都能坐拥令人艳羡的都市景观。而大楼的下半部分将包含173套豪华出租公寓。共管公寓的价位是：价格最低的两居室，起价450万美元（约合人民币2758万元）；顶层公寓尚未上市，但是挂牌价将达到3750万美元（约合人民币2.3亿元）。其它单元，还包括一套挂牌价2125万美元（约合人民币1.3亿元）的五居室。住户再花25万美元（约合人民币153万元），就可以买一个停车位。而出租单元尚未定价，它们将在2016年底楼盘开放前开始出租。
“It’s the new start of the Upper East Side,” said Pamela D’Arc, an agent at Stribling and Associates who is marketing the development.
“这是上东区的新开始。”房地产公司Stribling and Associates负责营销该项目的经纪人帕梅拉·达尔克(Pamela D’Arc)说。
The temptation to draw Midtown into the Upper East Side’s fold can be hard to resist. After all, sellers obtain much higher prices for properties with Upper East Side addresses. In the third quarter, the average sale price for a residential property in Midtown East was $1.161 million, nearly half of the $2.236 million during the same period on the Upper East Side, according to data provided by CityRealty. “At this point, East 57th Street is becoming the Upper East Side,” said Tamir Shemesh, an agent at the Corcoran Group who is marketing several new developments in the vicinity. “It’s like Tokyo and Yokohama — they used to be far from each other and now they’re one big city.”
将中城并入上东区的诱惑，或许是难以抵挡的。毕竟，上东区的房产能够卖出更高的价钱。在第三季度，中城东区的住宅地产平均售价为161.1万美元（约合人民币987万元），比上东区同期的平均售价223.6万美元（约合人民币1370万元）低了将近一半。上述数据来自CityRealty。“目前，东57街正在成为上东区的一部分，”柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)负责营销附近几个新建项目的经纪人塔米尔·谢梅什(Tamir Shemesh)说，“就像东京和横滨——它们以前彼此相距很远，现在成了一个大城市。”
The residential tower at 252 East 57th Street is the final stage of an effort by World Wide, starting in 2005, to redevelop a one-and-a-half-acre site that now includes two public schools and a Whole Foods. With three floors of retail planned for the tower, World Wide hopes the project will transform the unremarkable corner into the East Side’s answer to the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, the architects for the Time Warner Center, also designed 252 East 57th Street, which will have an undulating glass curtain wall so every condo apartment and some rentals will have at least one window that curves inward. “We see this as an eastern version” of the Time Warner Center, said Julia Hodgson, the director of development for World Wide. “It’s all one residential corridor.”
东57街252号的住宅大楼，是World Wide集团一个项目的最后阶段。该项目始建于2005年，旨在重新开发一块1.5英亩（约合0.6公顷）的地皮。现在，这块地皮上包含了两座公立学校和一家全食超市(Whole Foods)。大楼拟建三层楼的零售场所，World Wide集团希望该项目能将这处不起眼的角落，转变为东区自己的时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)。时代华纳中心地处哥伦布环路(Columbus Circle)，其设计者SOM建筑设计事务所(Skidmore, Owings and Merrill)也设计了东57街252号。后者将会拥有一座波浪起伏的玻璃幕墙，这样一来，每套共管公寓和部分出租单元都将拥有至少一扇向内弯曲的窗户。“我们把它视为东区版”的时代华纳中心，World Wide集团的开发总监茱莉亚·霍吉森(Julia Hodgson)说，“这是一整个住宅走廊。”
Not everyone is convinced that a Whole Foods and a few more shops could reinvent Second Avenue the way that the Time Warner Center invigorated Columbus Circle when it opened in 2004. “We’ve had such big hopes for that Whole Foods, but half of the time it’s empty,” said Victoria Vinokur, an agent with Halstead Property who also lives in Midtown East. “There’s nothing else in the radius.”
并不是每个人都确信，一家全食超市外加几个商店，就能重塑第二大道的面貌，就像时代华纳中心2004年开放时带动了哥伦布环路那样。“我们对那家全食抱有很大希望，但是那里半数时间是空的，”哈尔斯特德房地产公司(Halstead Property)的经纪人维多利亚·维诺克(Victoria Vinokur)说。她也住在中城东区，“这一带没有别的东西了。”
A handful of restaurants like the Smith and Crave Fishbar have opened along Second Avenue around 50th Street, replacing check-cashing shops and unmemorable Irish pubs with more sophisticated eateries. But the blocks farther north still feel like an afterthought.
Smith和Crave Fishbar等少量餐厅已经在第50街一带的第二大道边开张，取代了支票兑现店和毫无特色的爱尔兰酒吧，带来了一些更高端的食客。但是再往北的街区依然感觉像是一片空白。
“It’s not an easy street to maintain a business on, because it doesn’t get the foot traffic and the rents are quite high,” said Paul Anavian, the manager of Manhattan Arts and Antiques Center, which has been on Second Avenue since 1975.
“这条街上的商铺不容易开下去，因为这里没什么人流，租金又很贵。”曼哈顿艺术和古董中心(Manhattan Arts and Antiques Center)的管理者保罗·阿纳维安(Paul Anavian)说。该中心自1975年起一直在第二大道营业。
Businesses have an easier time farther west. Tres Carnes, a popular downtown barbecue taco restaurant, opened an outpost on Third Avenue and 57th Street this spring. And Spa Castle Premiere 57 plans to open a three-story luxury spa at 57th Street and Park Avenue in late November.
地段偏西的商铺更好经营一点。今年春天，市中心一家人气很旺的烧烤玉米卷餐厅Tres Carnes，在第三大道(Third Avenue)和第57街交汇处开设了一家门店。Spa Castle Premiere 57也计划于11月末在第57街和公园大道(Park Avenue)间开设一家三层楼的豪华spa店。
On East 60th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues, World Wide plans to build a residential development across from Bloomingdale’s. “That will also be a tall tower,” said Ms. Hodgson, adding that it would “be a similar type of development” to the East 57th Street project. To make way for the tower, World Wide has been steadily assembling low-rise buildings on the block, including the building that houses the Subway Inn, a beloved dive bar that has been in its location for 77 years. But World Wide did not renew the bar’s lease and on Dec. 2, the storied tavern is scheduled to close and later move to a new location on Second Avenue and 60th street, two blocks away.
在列克星敦大道(Lexington Avenue)和第三大道之间的东60街，World Wide集团拟在布鲁明戴尔百货商店对面，修建一处住宅开发项目。“它也会是一座高楼，”霍吉森说，同时指出，它将是与东57街的那个项目“类似的开发项目”。为给大楼的修建铺平道路，World Wide一直在收购街区内的低层建筑，包括一家已经营业77年、广受喜爱的廉价酒吧Subway Inn所在的楼房。但是World Wide集团并没有跟酒吧续约，到了12月2日，这家有名的小酒馆将要关门歇业，然后搬到第二大道和第60街间的新地点去，就在两个街区以外。
“This whole block is changing left and right,” said Steven Salinas, whose father, Arsemio, owns the Subway Inn. “Everybody wants to make a lot of money and the city’s letting them do that, and they don’t care too much about the mom-and-pop places.”
“整个街区都在发生彻头彻尾的改变，”史蒂文·萨利纳斯(Steven Salinas)说，他的父亲阿尔希米奥(Arsemio)是Subway Inn的主人。“每个人都想赚大钱，而市政府正放任他们这样做。他们不怎么在乎小商铺。”
More blocks might soon amass the ubiquitous sidewalk bridges and cranes that have come to symbolize an era of endless construction. On Third Avenue from 58th to 59th Streets, Harry Macklowe, the developer of 432 Park Avenue, bought three properties just north of the Decoration and Design Building earlier this year. He recently partnered with Keppel Land, a Singapore developer, to redevelop the parcel, which will include residential and retail.
起重机和带有人行道的桥梁无处不在，它们已经象征着一个建筑活动无休无止的时代。它们或许很快就会在更多街区里聚集起来。在第58到59街间的第三大道，公园大道432号的开发商哈里·麦克洛(Harry Macklowe)今年早些时候就在装潢设计大楼(Decoration and Design Building)的北面，购置了三处房产。该公司最近与新加坡开发商Keppel Land合伙对这块地皮进行再开发，开发项目中将包括住宅和零售业。
“It’s not going to be 432 Park,” said Mr. Shemesh of Corcoran, who is familiar with the Third Avenue development. “You can’t compare a project on Third Avenue with Park Avenue, and it certainly won’t be in that price level.”
“它不会和公园大道432号一样，”柯克兰集团的谢梅什说，他对第三大道的这个项目很熟悉，“你不能把第三大道和公园大道的项目作比较，而且价位肯定也不在一个级别。”