If you want to see just how much has changed in New York’s coffee scene in the last few years, stop by Gregorys Coffee.
如果你想知道过去几年纽约的咖啡馆发生了多少变化，就去格雷戈里咖啡馆(Gregorys Coffee)看一看。
The company, which has eight locations in Manhattan and three more on the way, has the familiar feel of a chain store: cheerful cashiers, enormous lattes, flavored syrups. But look carefully and you’ll also see a short menu of exceptional coffees from cult roasters, prepared to order on an AeroPress, a syringe-like brewer that produces coffee with unusual clarity.
该公司在曼哈顿有八个分店，还有三个分店正在筹备中，它给人的感觉很像常见的连锁店：欢乐的收银员、大杯的拿铁咖啡、调味用的糖浆。但是如果你仔细查看，就会发现它的菜单很短，只有特别上等的咖啡，咖啡豆来自受到热捧的烘焙器，放在爱乐压(AeroPress)咖啡机里等客人点单，爱乐压的形状像注射器，它可以做出非常纯净的咖啡。
Until recently, this was the kind of coffee and equipment you saw only at the hard-core coffee shops, the ones that felt like underground clubs: judgmental staff, coded language, obscure locations. Now you can find a drink like this meticulously prepared by friendly baristas in branded polo shirts.
不久之前，你只能在铁杆级别的咖啡店里看到这种咖啡和设备，也就是那种像地下俱乐部的咖啡店：爱评判别人的员工，有自己的暗语，地点隐秘。现在，你可以从身穿配有店名标识的马球衫、态度友善的咖啡馆服务员那里接过一杯这种精心准备的咖啡。
You can also find it nearly anywhere, at prices comparable to the drinks at the bigger coffee chains. According to the New York City Economic Development Corporation, the city had 1,830 coffee shops as of March, adding 130 shops in the previous 12 months; the majority were single locations or part of a smaller chain. On average, one coffee shop opened in New York every three days.
而且你几乎随处都能找到这样的咖啡，价格与较大的连锁咖啡店也差不多。据纽约城市经济发展公司说，到3月底，纽约有1830家咖啡店，在过去12个月里增加了130家。其中大部分是单独经营的咖啡馆，或者属于较小规模的连锁店。平均每三天纽约就有一家新咖啡店开业。
It’s not just that the coffee scene is growing; it’s also growing up. In the years since New York first emerged as a serious coffee town, the zealotry behind the counter has softened, while the quality of what’s in the cup has improved. The nerdy shops are busier than ever — the ones that favor lighter roasts (which have more nuanced flavors), exclusively carry beans from the most recent harvest (which are fresher, and therefore taste better), and save their best coffees for the brew bar (where each cup is brewed individually with the focus of a monk raking a rock garden).
不只是咖啡店的数量在增加，咖啡店的品质也在提高。从纽约首次以严肃咖啡城市亮相那个年代以来，柜台后面的咖啡师言语变温和了，杯里的咖啡品质也提高了。那些有呆子气质的咖啡馆比以前更忙碌了——就是那些更喜欢轻度烘烤（它的味道更微妙），只选用新采摘的咖啡豆（它们更新鲜，所以味道更好），把最好的咖啡留给烹煮台（那里的每一杯咖啡都是以和尚扒垄岩石园式的专注单独煮出来的）。
That the audience has grown is in no small part because of the changing geography of good coffee. Even former coffee deserts like Midtown and the financial district are flush with new shops.
顾客增长是由于上等咖啡馆的地点发生了变化。甚至连从前的咖啡荒漠，比如中城和金融区，也开了很多新咖啡店。
“For a long time, our most sophisticated drinkers were at our downtown shops,” said Jonathan Rubinstein, who founded the coffee company Joe in 2003. “Now the Midtown crowd is coming around in a very vocal way. We never thought that bankers in ties would wait in line for drinks that are a culinary product, instead of an injection of caffeine.” Mr. Rubinstein, who already operates eight shops in New York, is currently negotiating lease terms for spaces in Columbus Circle, the financial district, Hudson Yards, Times Square and the World Trade Center.
“有很长时间，我们最讲究的顾客都在市中心的店里，”2003年开创咖啡公司乔(Joe)的乔纳森·鲁宾斯坦(Jonathan Rubinstein)说，“现在中城的顾客明显多了起来。我们从没想到西装革履的银行家们愿意排队等待精心制作做出来的饮品，而不是匆忙地来上一杯。”鲁宾斯坦在纽约已经开了八家店，目前在谈位于哥伦布商圈、金融区、哈德逊庭院、时报广场和世贸中心的几个新店的租约。
It seems that real estate in those areas would be prohibitively expensive for serious coffee bars, the kind that offer brewed-to-order coffees and expertly pulled espressos — labor-intensive, low-margin businesses. In Midtown, a 420-square-foot retail space with no seating, essentially a to-go window, may cost more than $12,000 monthly in rent, and a 900-square-foot shop may run $30,000 a month.
对于认真的咖啡馆来说，这些区域的租金似乎过高了。我指的是那些提供现煮咖啡和熟练制作的浓缩咖啡的劳动密集型、低利润咖啡馆。在中城，一个420平方英尺的、没有座位、主要就是一个外带窗口的零售店，每个月的租金可能超过12000美元，一个900平方英尺店铺的月租金在三万美元左右。
Nor would those neighborhoods necessarily appeal to owners. “I was not looking at Midtown at all,” said Ken Nye, the founder of Ninth Street Espresso, which opened a location at the Lombardy Hotel on East 56th Street last year. “There are parts of New York that are off the radar, places you don’t want to be seen in because they’re not cool. Some are parts where the numbers don’t crunch. Midtown falls into both categories.”
不是所有的店主都对那些地方感兴趣。“我完全不在中城找店面，”第九街浓缩咖啡店(Ninth Street Espresso)的创始人肯·奈尔(Ken Nye)说。他去年在东56街的伦巴第酒店开了间咖啡店。“纽约有些地方不引起人注目，你不想把店开在那里，因为它们不够酷。还有些地方租金太贵。中城就是又贵又不酷。”
But by offering favorable lease terms and facilitating construction, developers have had success luring coffee bars into office buildings and hotels. The real estate developer Jamestown approached Kaffe 1668, which has two shops in TriBeCa, about opening a tiny coffee bar in the lobby of an office building at Fifth Avenue and 45th Street; Michael Phillips, Jamestown’s chief operating officer, said the company wanted a shop that would set the tone for the building. “Midtown is not so artisanal, or not thought of that way,” he said. “It was a great opportunity to shift the dialogue.” Now you can sit on one of the lobby’s sleek couches and sip a coffee brewed to order with beans from Finca la Felicidad, named for the farm in Guatemala where they are grown.
但是通过提供优惠的租约和便利的设施，开发商们已经成功地吸引一些咖啡馆进驻写字楼和酒店。地产开发商詹姆斯敦(Jamestown)正在与在特里贝克区开了两家店的“咖啡1668”(Kaffe 1668)公司接触，商讨在第五大道和第45街交界处一个写字楼的大堂开设一间小咖啡店。詹姆斯敦公司的首席运营官迈克尔·菲利普斯(Michael Phillips)说，该公司想要一个能给这个写字楼定调的咖啡店。“中城不是那么注重艺术性，或者至少大家是这么认为的，”他说。“现在是改变这种说法的大好机会。”现在你可以坐在大堂时髦的沙发上，啜饮一杯专门为你煮的咖啡，它用的是危地马拉费利西达庄园(Finca la Felicidad)的咖啡豆。
Traditionally, the batch brewer — the large coffee urn you would see in an office break room or at a church social — provides the muscle for a shop: It’s easy to dispense a drip coffee to go. But at shops like Little Collins, a small and fastidious coffee bar that opened in Midtown last year, most of the orders are either espresso drinks or pour-over coffee, both of which take time to prepare. According to Leon Unglik, an owner, some of the customers live in neighborhoods with good coffee shops and are familiar with this level of craft. But others are new converts or tourists who wandered over from Bloomingdale’s.
传统上，批量咖啡机——就是你在办公室休息间或教堂联谊会上经常看到的那种大咖啡机——是咖啡店的支柱：它能很快做好一杯滴漏咖啡带走。但是在很多咖啡店——比如去年在中城开业的精致小巧的小柯林斯(Little Collins)咖啡店——大部分客人点的是浓缩咖啡或手冲咖啡，这两种都需要花时间准备。据这家咖啡店的老板利昂·昂利克(Leon Unglik)说，有些顾客住在有好咖啡馆的社区，熟悉这种水平的手艺。但是还有些顾客是刚喜欢上这种咖啡的人或者在布卢明代尔百货公司闲逛的游客。
During the lunch rush, when a mostly corporate crowd floods the tiny room, the staff at Little Collins will turn out as many as 120 coffees in two hours. “The challenge is to get coffee out really quickly,” Mr. Unglik said. “People around here don’t like to wait for anything.”
在午餐高峰期，以公司职员为主的顾客涌入小柯林斯的小店，这里的员工在两小时内要做出120杯咖啡。“挑战在于飞快地做出咖啡，”昂利克说，“这里的人一点都不愿意等。”
The growth is not confined to Midtown or the financial district. A number of small but influential roasters that made their names elsewhere are planting flags in New York. Blue Bottle Coffee, from San Francisco; Stumptown Coffee Roasters, from Portland, Ore.; and the Australian company Toby’s Estate have all opened multiple locations throughout the city in the last few years. Intelligentsia Coffee, the pioneering Chicago-based roaster, will open its second New York shop this summer, on Broadway close to Herald Square.
增长不仅局限于中城或金融区。一些在其他地方闯出名气的有影响力的小咖啡公司开始进军纽约。旧金山的蓝瓶咖啡(Blue Bottle Coffee)、俄勒冈州波特兰市的斯登普顿咖啡公司(Stumptown Coffee Roasters)、澳大利亚的托比地产(Toby’s Estate)咖啡公司在过去几年里都在纽约开设了几家分店。芝加哥先锋咖啡公司知识分子咖啡(Intelligentsia Coffee)今年夏天将在靠近先驱广场的百老汇开设它在纽约的第二家店。
One of the most impressive facilities to open this past year was not a shop. Counter Culture Coffee, from Durham, N.C., turned a former carriage factory in NoLIta into a training center, a 3,600-square-foot loftlike space with stadium seating. If it were a coffee shop, it would arguably be the best equipped in the city. Instead, the room is used for lectures, demonstrations, classes and tastings. Some are Coffee 101: “Brewing Science” and “Milk Mechanics.” Others are more advanced. Last week, a lecture addressed the controversial centralization of the coffee trade in Nyeri, a county in Kenya.
过去一年中令人印象最深刻的设施之一不是咖啡店。来自北卡罗来纳州达拉谟的柜台文化咖啡公司(Counter Culture Coffee)把诺丽塔一个从前的马车厂改造成了一个培训中心，这个3600平方英尺的开放式空间有体育场式的座位。如果它是个咖啡馆，它无疑是这个城市里装备最好的。但是，这个地方是用来做讲座、演示、上课和品尝的地方。有些是咖啡101(Coffee 101)的基本内容：“煮咖啡的科学”和“牛奶技术”。还有些内容更高级。上周的一个讲座是关于肯尼亚尼涅里县咖啡贸易集中化的争议。
The room may feel like an upscale jeans store, but it functions like a demonstration kitchen at a culinary institute. “It’s a space that the coffee community never had before,” said Jesse Kahn, the coordinator of the training center. “Making coffee requires the same focus and attention to detail you give to anything that’s comestible. It needs to be made with care and attention to be any good.”
这个地方可能感觉像个高档牛仔裤专卖店，但是它的功能相当于烹饪学校的演示厨房。“它是爱喝咖啡的群体从未有过的空间，”该培训中心的协调人杰西·卡恩(Jesse Kahn)说，“做咖啡需要你做任何食物都需要的专注以及对细节的关注。要想做好，需要小心、专注地烹制。”
Serious coffee drinkers know that the question of who is roasting the coffee is as important as where the beans are from, and the New York scene is maturing in that respect, too. Many of the more celebrated local shops, including Abraço, Sweetleaf, Joe and Kaffe 1668, now roast their own beans, several of them at the Pulley Collective, an enormous roasting facility that opened last summer in Red Hook, Brooklyn. Roasting offers each outfit an enormous amount of control over the beans, not unlike a restaurant growing its own produce.
认真的咖啡饮用者知道烘烤咖啡豆的人和咖啡豆的来源一样重要，纽约在这方面也成熟起来。很多更著名的当地咖啡店，包括阿布拉科(Abraço)、甜蜜树叶(Sweetleaf)、乔和咖啡1668，开始自己烘焙咖啡豆，其中几家的烘焙地点是在去年夏天于布鲁克林的红钩区开业的巨大烘焙工厂普利集团(Pulley Collective)。这让它们能很好地控制咖啡豆，有点像餐馆自己种植原材料。
But New York also has its share of shops that select and stock notable roasters from across the country and all over the world. Joe Pro Shop, a cramped coffee bar geared toward professionals, is the most exuberant of the city’s multiroaster shops, as they are known, offering a selection of coffees that change every week. Recently, there were 18 in stock, including beans from revered roasters like the Barn in Berlin, George Howell Coffee of Acton, Mass., and Heart Coffee in Portland, Ore. These are the coffees that coffee geeks like. You could go to the Joe Pro Shop every week for a year to pick up one bag of coffee for yourself and one for a friend, and never buy the same beans twice.
但是纽约也有一些咖啡店从全国和世界各地挑选和储备著名的烤好的咖啡豆。乔专业店(Joe Pro Shop)是一个面向专业人士、面积狭小的咖啡店，是这个城市多样化咖啡豆的店铺中生意最好的一个，因为大家都知道它每周供应不一样的精选咖啡。最近，这里储备了18种烤好的咖啡豆，包括从受人尊敬的烘培工厂购入的，比如柏林的巴恩(Barn)，马萨诸塞州的乔治·豪厄尔艾克顿咖啡(George Howell Coffee of Acton)以及俄勒冈州波特兰市的心咖啡(Heart Coffee)。这些是咖啡迷们喜欢的咖啡。你可以一年每周去乔专业店为自己和朋友分别选一袋咖啡，每次买的都会不一样。
A current of excitement surged through the city’s scene when Budin, a new shop in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, became the only place in the United States to regularly stock beans from Tim Wendelboe, a divisive roaster in Oslo. Some regard Mr. Wendelboe’s delicate, distinctive coffee as an undrinkable mistake, while others consider it to be among the greatest coffees you can find today. (René Redzepi, the chef of Noma in Copenhagen, is in the latter camp; last year, he designed a new coffee service around Mr. Wendelboe’s beans, staffing each shift with a dedicated barista who brews to order.)
目前这座城市正经历着一股兴奋的浪潮，布鲁克林绿点区的新店布丁(Budin)成为美国唯一一个定期从奥斯陆有争议的咖啡烘烤师蒂姆·温德尔布(Tim Wendelboe)那里购买咖啡豆的咖啡店。有些人认为温德尔布微妙、独特的咖啡难以下咽，而另一些人则认为它是如今你能找到的最好的咖啡之一（哥本哈根诺玛[Noma]餐厅的大厨雷内·雷哲皮[René Redzepi]属于后者。去年他围绕温德尔布的咖啡豆设计了新的咖啡产品，每一班配备一名专门的咖啡师按客户的要求做咖啡）。
Box Kite, a slim coffee bar that opened on St. Marks Place in January, is especially picky about the coffees it serves. “We try to find those unicorn coffees, the ones that sing,” said Cora Lambert, an owner. They change regularly — what you like one week may be gone the next — and so customers have to trust Ms. Lambert’s taste, and the person behind the bar to coax the most out of the coffees she chooses.
1月份在圣马克斯市场开业的小巧的咖啡馆鲍克斯·凯特(Box Kite)对自己供应的咖啡十分挑剔。“我们努力寻找独一无二的咖啡，寻找能歌唱的咖啡，”店主科拉·兰伯特(Cora Lambert)说。他们定期更换——你这周喜欢的咖啡下周可能就没有了——所以顾客必须信任兰伯特的品味，相信吧台后面的人能把她挑选的咖啡最美味地呈现出来。
That expertise, and the willingness of customers to try unusual or even challenging coffees, is what powers this evolving and expanding scene. Over the next few months, there will be a crop of new shops, including a Café Grumpy at Grand Central Terminal that is opening on Saturday. It’s not the first independent coffee shop to be housed there, but its arrival is rich in symbolism. Café Grumpy, which already has five locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn, is taking over a space currently occupied by a coffee company that was once a small regional roaster: Starbucks.
咖啡店主的专业知识和顾客们尝试不寻常、甚至有挑战的咖啡的意愿，是推动纽约咖啡图景发展的力量源泉。未来几个月，还会出现很多新店，包括周六即将在中央火车站开业的坏脾气咖啡馆(Café Grumpy)。它不是这里的第一家独立咖啡馆，但是它的到来具有丰富的象征意义。坏脾气咖啡馆在曼哈顿和布鲁克林已经开了五家店，但是它的新店从前的租户是一个曾经的地区性小咖啡公司：星巴克。
New York in Nine Coffees
从九款咖啡看纽约
The New York coffee scene is defined by its energy: new shops open, established players evolve and out-of-town heavies shake things up. The following coffees are an introduction to the city’s diversity. Taken together, they are a snapshot of what’s happening right now. 
纽约的咖啡图景可以从它的活力看出来：新店开张，老店升级，城外的重量级咖啡馆令人震惊。下面介绍的这些咖啡能展现这座城市的多样性。放在一起，它们能让你快速了解目前的情况。
1. 1 & 1 at Box Kite
1. 鲍克斯·凯特咖啡馆的1 + 1
The siphon bar at Blue Bottle’s Chelsea location is a homage to the coffee culture of Japan: take a seat, order coffee brewed on a siphon (a glass vessel stacked on a glass globe heated by a halogen burner) or on a nel drip (a thick cotton filter), then enjoy the spectacle. The coffee is rich and dense, the tableware elegant, the service regal — this is as close as coffee gets to fine dining: 450 West 15th Street, no telephone, bluebottlecoffee.com.
1+1是咖啡师特制咖啡，它是把双倍浓缩咖啡分到两种饮品里：一份纯粹的浓缩咖啡和一份黑糖玛奇朵。一般咖啡店的菜单上没有这个，但是鲍克斯·凯特咖啡馆有，把它和苏打水及自制全麦饼干放到托盘上一起上桌。这里的浓缩咖啡很有活力，可以单独上桌，也可以与牛奶搭配：圣马克斯市场115号，212-574-8201, boxkitecafe.com。
2. Siphon coffee at Blue Bottle Coffee
2. 蓝瓶咖啡馆的虹吸咖啡
The siphon bar at Blue Bottle’s Chelsea location is a homage to the coffee culture of Japan: take a seat, order coffee brewed on a siphon (a glass vessel stacked on a glass globe heated by a halogen burner) or on a nel drip (a thick cotton filter), then enjoy the spectacle. The coffee is rich and dense, the tableware elegant, the service regal — this is as close as coffee gets to fine dining: 450 West 15th Street, no telephone,bluebottlecoffee.com.
蓝瓶咖啡馆切尔西店的虹吸吧台是在向日本的咖啡文化致敬：坐下来，点一杯用虹吸管（一个玻璃容器架在一个玻璃圆罩上，用卤素灯加热）或内尔滴壶（一个很厚的棉袋过滤器）煮的咖啡，然后观赏奇迹吧。这种咖啡醇厚浓郁，这里的餐具很优雅，这里的服务让你感觉备受尊敬——这里是咖啡最接近正式用餐的地方：西15街450号，没有电话，bluebottlecoffee.com。
3. Tim Wendelboe coffee at Budin
3. 布丁咖啡馆的蒂姆·温德尔伯咖啡
The Nordic roasting scene is closely followed by coffee nerds: Some of the best coffees in the world come from that region. Budin is the unofficial New York outpost for those roasters, including Tim Wendelboe, a microroaster in Oslo whose coffees are so light and clean-tasting that they don’t really taste like coffee. For some, it’s too weird. For others, it’s a mind-bending experience: 114 Greenpoint Avenue (Franklin Street), Greenpoint, Brooklyn, 347-844-9639, budin-nyc.com.
北欧的咖啡烘烤方式被咖啡迷们紧紧追随：这世上最好的一些咖啡来自那个地区。布丁咖啡馆是那里的咖啡烘焙厂的纽约非正式前哨，包括奥斯陆的小型咖啡烘焙厂蒂姆·温德尔伯，它的咖啡烤得很轻，味道干净，喝起来不太像咖啡。对有些人来说，它太古怪了。对另一些人来说，它是不可思议的体验：绿点大道（富兰克林街）114号，布鲁克林绿点区，347-844-9639, budin-nyc.com。
4. Two shots of espresso at Everyman Espresso
4. 大众浓缩咖啡馆(Everyman Espresso)的双注浓缩咖啡
Few shops offer more than one espresso — you need multiple grinders and customers interested enough to justify the trouble. Everyman Espresso in SoHo always has two espressos on the menu from Counter Culture Coffee: Rustico, a blend, and a single-origin espresso. Order both, and drink them side by side. Same roaster, same barista, same machine, but the flavors in each are as distinct as the whiskeys from different distilleries:301 West Broadway (Canal Street), no telephone, everymanespresso.com.
极少有咖啡馆提供多种浓缩咖啡——你需要好几个磨豆机，还需要顾客足够感兴趣，让这些工夫没白费。SoHo区大众浓缩咖啡馆的菜单上总有两种来自柜台文化咖啡公司的浓缩咖啡：混合风味的乡村咖啡和单一产地浓缩咖啡。把两种咖啡都点上，并排放在一起喝。它们是同一个咖啡师用同一个烘焙机和同一个咖啡机做出来的，但是这两杯咖啡截然不同，就像不同酿酒厂做出的不同的威士忌：西百老汇（运河街）301号，没有电话，everymanespresso.com。
5. Public tasting at the Counter Culture Coffee Training Center
5. 柜台文化咖啡公司培训中心的公众品尝活动
Every Friday at 10 a.m., Counter Culture Coffee opens its training center to the public for a free tasting; here’s your chance to check out what is arguably the most tricked-out coffee setup in New York. The format changes every week. The focus may be on brewing techniques or espresso, and the instructors include hotshots like Katie Carguilo, the 2012 United States barista champion: 376 Broome Street (Mott Street), 212-213-4411,counterculturecoffee.com/training-centers/new-york.
每周五上午10点，柜台文化咖啡公司开放它的培训中心，公众可以免费品尝。在这里你有机会尝试纽约最花哨的咖啡。每周的内容都不同。重点可能是煮咖啡的技巧或者制作浓缩咖啡，指导老师包括一些咖啡达人，比如2012年美国咖啡师冠军凯蒂·卡古洛(Katie Carguilo)：布鲁姆街（莫特街）376号，212-213-4411，counterculturecoffee.com/training-centers/new-york。
6. AeroPress coffee at Gregorys Coffee
6. 格雷戈里咖啡馆的爱乐压咖啡
Gregorys Coffee looks and feels like a slick chain, but the menu includes a nod to the coffee geeks: a short selection of rare coffees from highly regarded if little-known roasters, brewed to order on an AeroPress, a brewer fetishized by coffee insiders. Available at all locations, although the AeroPress bar at the flagship just off Herald Square can be one click more focused than at the other shops: 874 Sixth Avenue (31st Street), 646-476-3838,gregoryscoffee.com.
格雷戈里咖啡馆的外观和感觉都像一个时髦的连锁店，但是它的菜单包括对咖啡极客们的致敬：从很受尊敬但鲜为人知的烘焙厂精选的稀有咖啡，按顾客要求在咖啡专业人士迷恋的爱乐压咖啡机里单独煮。格雷戈里咖啡馆的所有分店都提供这种咖啡，不过先驱广场旗舰店的爱乐压吧台可能比其他分店更专注：第6大道（第31街）874号，646-476-3838， gregoryscoffee.com。
7. Barista’s choice at Joe Pro Shop
7. 乔专业咖啡馆的咖啡师精选咖啡
Where the nerds are. This uncomfortable coffee bar is stocked with some of the most beautiful coffees in New York. Go by the official menu and Joe Pro has one of the most diverse selections of beans in the country; add to that the samples and one-offs sometimes brewed up behind the bar, and you’re tapping into a current of the obscure coffees insiders love. The best thing is to ask the barista what’s tasting good right now: 131 West 21st Street, 212-924-7400, joenewyork.com.
这里是咖啡极客们的乐土。这个不舒适的咖啡吧备有纽约最美丽的一些咖啡。跳过正式菜单，乔专业咖啡馆挑选的咖啡豆是美国最多样化的。尝试那些有时在吧台后面煮的样品和一次性咖啡，你就进入了咖啡专业人士隐秘喜好的潮流中了。最好的办法是问问咖啡师现在味道最好的是什么：西21街131号，212-924-7400, joenewyork.com。
8. Brew bar coffee at Stumptown Coffee Roasters
8. 斯登普顿咖啡馆的烹煮吧台咖啡
The best-equipped brew bar in the city is in the back of the Stumptown on West Eighth Street: Here you will find all the toys, and an expert staff that always dresses for the occasion. Try one coffee prepared on three kinds of brewers, or three coffees prepared on one kind of brewer. This is where you go to ask the questions you’ve been afraid to ask. The shop opens early daily, but the brew bar is only open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: 30 West Eighth Street, 347-414-7802, stumptowncoffee.com.
纽约装备最好的咖啡烹煮吧台在西第八街斯登普顿咖啡馆的后部：在这里你能找到所有的用具以及一位总是着装隆重的专业员工。尝试用三种咖啡机做的一杯咖啡，或者用一种咖啡机做的三种咖啡。在这里你可以问一些你一直害怕问的问题。这家店每天都早早开业，但是烹煮吧台只从早上9点至下午5点开放：西第八街30号，347-414-7802, stumptowncoffee.com。
9. Espresso with milk at Ninth Street Espresso
9. 第九街浓缩咖啡店的加奶浓缩咖啡
Ninth Street Espresso opened in Alphabet City in 2001, the first in this new generation of coffee shops. The trip to Midtown, where a location recently opened, has been long and strange, but the shop still has some punk attitude: The drinks formerly known as macchiatos, cappuccinos and lattes are all now “espresso with milk,” a rejection of corporate coffee menus, and all cost $4. The drinks are the same at all locations, but it feels more subversive at the Midtown shop: 109 East 56th Street, 646-559-4793, ninthstreetespresso.com.
第九街浓缩咖啡店2001年在字母城开业的，是第一家新一代咖啡馆。它在中城新开了一家分店，去那里的旅途漫长而陌生，但是那家店仍有一点朋克气息：从前被称为黑糖玛奇朵、卡布奇诺和拿铁的咖啡现在都被称为“加奶浓缩咖啡”，表达对共同咖啡菜单的排斥，而且所有咖啡都是4美元。所有分店的咖啡都是一样的，但是中城的这家店感觉更有颠覆性：东第56街109号，646-559-4793, ninthstreetespresso.com。