If all politics were truly local, Brooklynites might be lobbying to rename the estuary that separates them from Manhattan. After all, it is only the East River if you happen to be a Manhattanite.
如果政治只涉及当地那点儿事，布鲁克林人也许会呼吁重新命名把自己与曼哈顿隔开的那个河口。毕竟，只有当你刚好是一名曼哈顿人时，它才能被叫做东河。
But New York officials, known for having their own foreign policy, have taken a cue from their counterparts in Virginia and waded into a dispute over the name of a body of water between Korea and Japan. With about 100,000 Koreans in New York City and 25,000 Japanese, it might be obvious what side two local legislators are embracing.
不过，一向以拥有自己的外交政策而闻名的纽约州官员，如今学起了弗吉尼亚的同行，开始趟进韩日间水域命名争议的浑水中。纽约市约有10万名韩国人和2.5万名日本人，当地的两位议员会站在哪边似乎是明摆着的。
State Senator Toby Ann Stavisky of Flushing and Assemblyman Edward C. Braunstein of Bayside, both Democrats from Queens districts with large Korean constituencies, introduced bills in Albany on Friday that would require school textbooks to refer to the Sea of Japan as the East Sea as well.
法拉盛的纽约州参议员托比·安·斯塔维斯基(Toby Ann Stavisky)和贝塞的纽约州众议员爱德华·C·布朗斯坦(Edward C. Braunstein)都是来自皇后区的共和党人，他们周五在奥尔巴尼提出了几项法案，可能要求学校教科书把日本海同时也称作东海。皇后区居住着大量韩裔居民。
“I’m from an Asian majority district,” Ms. Stavisky said. “I didn’t even look to see if there are any Japanese.”
斯塔维斯基说，“我来自一个亚裔占多数的区。我甚至不会去特别留心哪些是日本人。”
A quick refresher course: The sea (actually, a marginal, or partially enclosed sea) is bordered by Japan on the east and on the west by North and South Korea and Russia.
快速复习一下背景知识：这片海域（实际上是一个陆缘海，或部分封闭的海域）东侧毗邻日本，西侧毗邻朝鲜、韩国和俄罗斯。
“In this case, the widely known name for a body of water is a constant reminder for Koreans worldwide of an era of oppression, occupation and violence,” Senator Stavisky said. “We’re not replacing a name, we’re adding a name. It’s like adding Ed Koch to the 59th Street Bridge.”
参议员斯塔维斯基说，“在这个例子中，这片水域广为人知的名字不时会提醒全世界韩朝两国人民那样一个压迫、侵略和暴力的时代。我们不是在替换一个名字，我们是加上一个名字，就像是在59街大桥前面加上埃德·科赫(Ed Koch)。”
The bill would require that textbooks issued after July 1 use both names. Assemblyman Braunstein described the bill’s prospects as “an uphill fight.”
该法案将要求7月1日以后发行的教科书同时标记两个名称。众议员布朗斯坦说，这个法案的前景是“一场艰难的战役。”
Even if it passes, though, it would be up to the state’s 600 or so local school districts — not the State Education Department — to put it into effect.
不过，即使法案被通过，其实施也只能取决于该州当地的约600个校区——而不是州教育局。
In Virginia, where Gov. Terry McAuliffe is expected to sign similar legislation passed last week, the process is almost as daunting. The history curriculum comes up for review next year by the state’s Board of Education, a three-year process that culminates in the adoption of new textbooks.
在弗吉尼亚，预计州长特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)将签署上周通过的一个类似法案，这部法案通过的过程几乎同样艰难。历史课程明年将由该州的教育委员会进行复核，这个过程将持续三年，最终将采用新的教科书。
“But just because the board approves a list,” said Charles B. Pyle, a spokesman for the Virginia Education Department, “it doesn’t mean all 132 school districts in Virginia go out and buy new textbooks.”
弗吉尼亚州教育部的发言人查尔斯·B·派尔(Charles B. Pyle)说，“但仅仅是教育委员会通过了一个教科书单，并不代表着弗吉尼亚的全部132个校区都要购买新教材。”
In New York, the diplomatic community took the hydrographic kerfuffle in stride.
在纽约，外交界人士面对这场关于水域名称的争论态度从容。
“Absent the mutually agreeable solution, we believe that both ‘East Sea’ and ‘Sea of Japan’ should be used concurrently,” said Doo-young Lee, the Korean consul. “In this context, we at the Korean consulate find the initiatives at the State Legislature encouraging.”
韩国领事李斗英（Doo-young Lee，音译）说，“由于缺少双方都同意的解决方案，我们认为‘东海’和‘日本海’应该同时使用。在此背景下，我们韩国领事馆认为，州议会的提案令人鼓舞。”
South Korea says the name East Sea has been used for centuries.
韩国表示，“东海”这个名称已经使用了几个世纪。
Koichi Ai, a spokesman for the Japanese consulate, said: “We have always maintained that the Sea of Japan is the only internationally accepted name in cartography and the position that it has any connection to the colonial past has no basis. The name has been in use in many foreign maps even before the relationship evolved into a colonial one.”
日本领事馆的发言人叆小一（Koichi Ai，音译）说，“我们一直认为，日本海是国际上在地图绘制中所承认的唯一名称，认为它与殖民主义历史有任何关系的想法毫无根据。甚至在两国殖民关系开始之前，这个名字就已经在许多外国地图中使用。”
A spokesman for the Russian United Nations mission politely declined to comment. So did a man who answered the telephone at the North Korean mission to the United Nations. That country has been known to favor the name East Sea of Korea.
俄罗斯驻联合国使团的一名发言人礼貌地回绝了置评请求。朝鲜驻联合国使团接电话的一名男子也拒绝置评。据外界所知，朝鲜将其称作“朝鲜东海”。
South Korea says that the name Sea of Japan became commonplace only after Korea came under Japanese domination. Japan insists the name has been used generally since the early 19th century.
韩国说，日本海这个名称是在朝鲜半岛被日本占领之后才开始普及的。而日本坚称，这个名字基本上从19世纪初就开始使用了。
In 2012, the International Hydrographic Organization rejected a challenge to the name Sea of Japan, which it accepted in 1929, after Korea was annexed by Japan. The group is expected to take up the issue again in 2017, just about the same time Virginia’s new textbooks are to be approved.
2012年，国际航道测量组织(International Hydrographic Organization)驳回了对“日本海”这个名称的挑战。在朝鲜半岛被日本占领之后，该组织于1929年采用了这个名字。该组织预计将于2017年重新讨论这个问题，这大约也将是弗吉尼亚新教材被批准的时间。