The de Blasio administration has backed away from its fight with the app company Uber, agreeing on Wednesday to drop for now its plan to place a cap on the number of vehicles operated by Uber in New York City.
周三，由白思豪领导的纽约市政府在它和优步(Uber)的战斗中做出了让步，同意暂时搁置对优步在纽约市运营的车辆数量设定上限的计划。
The agreement brings a temporary end to a fractious struggle that had consumed City Hall for several days, and inundated parts of the city with mailers, phone calls, advertisements and even celebrity endorsements.
该协议为一场激烈的对抗画上了休止符。这场对抗让市政厅喧嚣数日，并让相关邮件、电话、广告甚至名人代言在这座城市的某些地方泛滥成灾。
Under the agreement, according to three people familiar with the agreement, the city will conduct a four-month study on the effect of Uber and other for-hire vehicle operators on the city’s traffic and environment.
了解该协议的三位消息人士称，纽约市将就优步及其他营运车辆经营者对该市交通和环境的影响，展开为期4个月的研究。
A City Council bill, which was to come to a vote as early as Thursday, had called for a cap on the company’s growth during the study. City officials said that a cap remained a possibility down the line.
纽约市议会原本计划最快在周四就一项议案进行表决，该议案要求在开展这项研究期间，限制优步的增长。市政府的官员表示，未来仍有可能对优步做出限制。
The people said the agreement also called for Uber to release some of the data it had been seeking.
上述消息人士称，协议还要求优步公布它搜集的某些数据。
“Uber must adhere to the agreement,” said Karen Hinton, the mayor’s chief spokeswoman, who characterized the deal as “a huge win” for the city. “Otherwise the cap gets put back on the table.”
“优步必须遵守这份协议，”白思豪的首席发言人凯伦·欣顿(Karen Hinton)说，“否则，对限制措施的讨论，就会被重新提上日程。”在她看来，达成这项妥协是纽约市取得的“巨大胜利”。
Before the announcement, the fractious, rollicking debate over Uber showed little signs of fading on Wednesday.
周三，该消息公布前，关于优步的激烈而又热闹的争论，并未显示出降温的迹象。
With a possible City Council vote one day away, the company’s aggressive campaign had denounced the mayor on the airwaves, insulted him on the company’s own app and, most recently, found its arguments reinforced on the celebrity Twitter accounts of Ashton Kutcher, Kate Upton, Neil Patrick Harris and other infrequent participants in the municipal taxi dialogue.
在市议会原本再过一天就可能投票之际，优步开展了猛烈的宣传攻势，在电视上和广播里大肆抨击市长，并在自家的app里对他出言不逊。此外，在Twitter上，优步的论点也刚刚得到了一些此前并未过多参与这场城市出租车大讨论的名人的支持，如阿什顿·库彻(Ashton Kutcher)、凯特·阿普顿(Kate Upton)、尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯(Neil Patrick Harris)等人。
Perhaps the company’s most potent new ally, though, was a less surprising mayoral critic: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who waded into the conflict on Wednesday as a staunch defender of the company that Mayor Bill de Blasio had cast as a corporate behemoth.
不过，该公司最强大的新盟友，是纽约州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)，他批评市长似乎不那么出人意料。他在周三介入了这场冲突，坚定地支持被白思豪市长形容为企业巨兽的优步。
In a radio interview on Wednesday morning, Mr. Cuomo, with whom Mr. de Blasio is enmeshed in an open feud, called Uber “one of the great inventions of this new economy.”
周三早上，库默在接受电台访问时说，优步是“新经济最伟大的发明之一”。库默和白思豪之间公开存在冲突。
“I don’t think government should be in the business of trying to restrict job growth,” he said.
“我认为政府不应该做出试图限制就业增长的举动，”他说。
The City Council proposal, bolstered by the mayor, was designed to limit the growth of for-hire vehicle companies like Uber to 1 percent, pending a study of city traffic patterns. The city has suggested that Uber may be responsible for slower traffic speeds in Manhattan, a charge the company has rejected.
市议会那项受到市长支持的议案，旨在先把优步这类车辆营运企业的增长率限制在1%以内，等到关于城市交通模式的研究有了结果再做调整。纽约市认为，优步或许对曼哈顿车流速度变慢负有责任，但优步不认可这一指责。
Since 2011, the year Uber debuted in the city, the number of for-hire vehicles in the city has grown by more than 60 percent, to more than 60,000. About 20,000 of the vehicles are Uber’s, according to the city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission.
自从2011年优步在纽约市开展业务以来，该市营运车辆总数已经增长了60%以上，达到了6万多辆。纽约市出租车及礼车委员会(Taxi and Limousine Commission)称，其中约有2万辆的运营方是优步。
For several days, the company has sustained a hard-charging campaign against City Hall, most notably in television ads depicting Mr. de Blasio as a protector of the yellow taxi industry, whose leaders have been significant campaign contributors to the mayor. The sides have also tussled over who represents the interests of working-class drivers and passengers, holding dueling rallies this week as the administration sought to frame its concerns as a progressive cause.
这些天来，为了对抗市政厅，优步一直在开展声势浩大的宣传攻势，最引人注目的是在电视广告中把市长描绘成黄色出租车行业的保护者。出租车行业的领导人物，在竞选中给市长提供了大笔资助。双方还围绕谁代表的是身为工薪阶层的司机和乘客的利益，而掐作一团。市政府竭力把它关注的问题阐述为一项进步事业，双方于本周举行了针锋相对的集会。
Though Ydanis Rodriguez, the chairman of the Council’s transportation committee, said on Wednesday that supporters of the bill had the necessary votes, several prominent Democrats across local government have expressed opposition in recent days.
市议会交通委员会主席伊丹尼斯·罗德里格斯(Ydanis Rodriguez)周三表示，支持者的票数足以让这项议案获得通过。但最近几天，当地政府部门中一些有名望的民主党人的口径并不一致。