This past week, on a day when fast-food workers gathered in front of a McDonald’s in downtown Manhattan to announce that they would strike again on May 15 to demand higher wages, clergy members from various denominations around New York joined hundreds of laborers for a service and pray-in at Riverside Church, calling on state legislators to allow cities to set their own minimum wage. The economic realities of life in New York City so often seem to require holy intervention. According to the Fiscal Policy Institute, a research group, more than 1.25 million residents, 37 percent of all workers living in the city, make less than $15 an hour. More than half of workers who live in the Bronx subsist in this category; in Brooklyn, which has one of the most competitive housing markets in the country, the figure is 41 percent.
过去这周（5月10日当周——译注），在一些快餐店工人于曼哈顿下城区的麦当劳门口集会、并宣布他们将于5月15日再次罢工以求提高薪水的那天，来自纽约州各地不同教派的神职人员加入了数百名劳动者的队伍，一起在河边教堂(Riverside Church)做礼拜，并以祈祷的方式呼吁州议员们允许每座城市定出自己的最低工资。在纽约，现实生活中的这些经济问题，似乎总要有神圣力量的干预。根据一家研究机构财政政策研究所(Fiscal Policy Institute)的数据，纽约有超过125万居民，每小时赚取的薪水不到15美元（约合人民币94元），占所有生活在纽约的工人数量的37%。在这部分工人中，有超半数的人在布朗克斯区(Bronx)挣扎度日；而在布鲁克林区这个位列全国竞争最激烈的住房市场之一的地方，这项数字达到了41%。
Even when the state’s minimum wage increases to $9 an hour as it is meant to do in two years, its purchasing power will still be 25 percent below its peak, 46 years ago. According to a report released by the city comptroller’s office last month, median apartment rents in New York City rose by 75 percent from 2000 to 2012, a rate significantly higher than the country’s on the whole, as the real incomes of New Yorkers declined.
即使该州依照其原计划，在两年内将最低工资增加到每小时9美元（约合人民币56元），届时的购买力仍会比46年前的峰值低25%。据纽约市审计长办公室上个月发布的一份报告(report released by the city comptroller’s office)，纽约市中等公寓的租金从2000年至2012年上涨了75%，其涨幅比全国总体水平要高得多；而与此同时，纽约市民的实际收入却在下降。
You could keep yourself incredibly busy, making it impossible to read anything by or about Thomas Piketty if you simply committed to digesting recent analyses of the city’s housing crisis. Another report, from New York University’s Furman Center, used the example of a rookie firefighter and a substitute teacher, with one child, who 14 years ago could have afforded 70 percent of the city’s available rental units. Between 2007 and 2012, they would have been able to afford fewer than half.
如果你只一门心思地去消化这些关于纽约市住房危机的最新分析数据的话，很可能会忙得不可开交，根本没时间去阅读托马斯·皮克提（Thomas Piketty，法国经济学家，近年来就社会不均问题作了一系列研究——译注）撰写的、或与其有关的任何著作。而另一份来自纽约大学弗曼中心(New York University’s Furman Center)的报告，则举了一位消防新兵与一名代课老师的实例。他们有一个孩子，14年前本可以负担这座城市70%的待租公寓；而在2007年与2012年间，他们能负担得起的公寓，还不到一半。
Driven by this dispiriting math, Mayor Bill de Blasio on May 5 released his 10-year housing plan, which seeks to deploy $41 billion in public and private funding, $8.2 billion of it coming from the city, to preserve 120,000 existing units of affordable housing while creating 80,000 new ones. When you consider that the city’s most recent Housing and Vacancy Survey, conducted in 2011, put the number of subsidized units in the city at 297,620, a figure that includes more than 175,000 apartments, decades old, belonging to the New York City Housing Authority, you get a sense of the program’s aggressive ambition.
鉴于这种令人气馁的数字，白思豪(Bill de Blasio)市长于5月5日公布了他的十年住房计划，该计划将力图在公募基金和私募基金领域配置410亿美元（约合人民币2256亿元），其中的82亿美元（约合人民币511亿元）来自纽约市。这笔钱将用于保留12万套现有的廉租住房，同时再加建8万套新房。你只要想想看，2011年纽约市最新的住房与空置情况调查(Housing and Vacancy Survey)将这座城市的租金补贴房数量定为297620套，其中还包括了175000多套有几十年房龄且隶属于纽约市房管局(New York City Housing Authority)的公寓，就能体会到这项计划的勃勃雄心了。
Or rather an inkling of seemingly untenable optimism; the plan relies on a rate of housing production higher than anything we have witnessed in a long time. The lauded housing initiative for low- and moderate-income New Yorkers during the Koch administration resulted in the creation and rehabilitation of about 150,000 apartments over a similar time frame, many of them born of renovations to vacant buildings in the Bronx, Harlem and Central Brooklyn that had been lost to the misery and ashes of the 1970s. There is no such analogous derelict housing stock today, which means that much of the building that will happen will be building up.
更确切地说，似乎有点盲目乐观；该计划所依赖的，是一个我们长期以来见过的最高的住房建造率。在郭德华(Koch)当政期间，那项备受赞誉的、为纽约中低收入人群提供的住房刺激计划，导致了那段时期兴建与修复了大约15万套公寓。其中许多公寓，来自布朗克斯区、哈莱姆区(Harlem)和布鲁克林中央区(Central Brooklyn)闲置大楼的翻修工程。那些建筑曾经迷失在20世纪70年代的灰烬与痛苦之中，但如今已没有这类弃置的住房了，这意味着，即将出现的这种公寓楼大部分都得新建。
And here, as with the obvious and Olympian challenges of financing, is where so many complications lie. One of the many commendable aspects of the mayor’s plan, which is over 100 pages long, is the interest it extends beyond construction to fostering communities and facilitating economic integration. This means that commercial thoroughfares like Pitkin Avenue in Brooklyn, for example, would presumably no longer exist merely as corridors of poverty retail (a cellphone store next to a fried-chicken chain next to a purveyor of cheap tank tops). Better services would, in theory, bring more moderate-income tenants to historically troubled neighborhoods.
而这一环节正如那些显眼而高难度的融资挑战一样，存在着那么多纷繁复杂的情况。在纽约市长这份超过100页的计划书中，有许多可圈可点之处，其中之一，是这份报告从建筑施工扩展到完善多个社区和促进经济一体化的兴趣。这意味着，比如说，像布鲁克林区佩特金大道(Pitkin Avenue)这样的商业街道，很有可能将不再作为廉价商品零售店的走廊（一家手机店接一家炸鸡连锁店再接一家廉价背心专卖店这种）而存在了。理论上，更好的服务措施将会让更多收入不高的租户搬到这些历史上曾有问题的社区中来。
Implicit in this paradigm is the idea that affluent New Yorkers living in well-tended corners of the city would also open themselves up to neighbors who might be less privileged. It was telling that the mayor announced his plan in the gentrified, multimillion-dollar brownstone world of Fort Greene, Brooklyn. At every point along the spectrum, including the high end, the only way to have cheaper housing is to have more of it, an idea that many New Yorkers are happy to embrace until submission to the principles of supply and demand means looking out at a 30-story tower 15 feet away.
该模式中暗含的一个理念是，那些生活在市内一些被精心照管的角落中的富裕纽约人，也会对可能不那么优越的邻居们敞开胸怀。据说，这位市长在布鲁克林的格林堡(Greene)那个经历了士绅化进程、房产价值上百万的褐石屋社区中，宣布了他的计划。而想要在此范围中的任一个位置——包括高端市场在内，拥有更便宜的住房，唯一的方法就是去建造更多的房子。这是许多纽约人都乐于接受的一个理念，除非服从于市场供需原则就意味着，会在15英尺（约4.6米）外看到一栋30层的大厦。
Within days of the plan’s release, residents in and around One Brooklyn Bridge Park, an expensive condominium complex converted from an old printing plant on the Brooklyn Heights waterfront, drafted a petition objecting to a proposal for a high-rise complex next door, where the city is considering placing middle-income housing alongside luxury properties. The dissenters appeared to see no irony in the fact that they held out the Pierhouse, a low-rise building going up in the north end of the park, where the smallest apartments are selling for $2 million and the larger ones closer to $11 million, as an example of more mindful development.
这项计划公布后没几天，那些住在布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)滨水区一栋由老印刷厂改建的奢华共管公寓综合体“布鲁克林大桥1号”(One Brooklyn Bridge Park)及其附近的居民们，起草了一份请愿书，反对一项在旁边修建一栋综合高层住宅的提议，而纽约市正在考虑把面向中等收入人群的住房安置在那里。与一些豪华地产并列在一起。这些持不同意见者力挺该公园最北边的一栋低层公寓楼Pierhouse，那栋楼中一些面积最小的公寓售价，也在200万美元（约合人民币1247万元），而较大面积的公寓则将近1100万美元（约合人民币6858万元）。这些人把该大楼当成了更为审慎的开发项目的典范，似乎没有从中看见任何讽刺之处。
Any modicum of economic diversity left in TriBeCa, otherwise a temple of hedge-fund wives migrating between 6,000-square-foot lofts and SoulCycle, exists because of the 39-story towers of Independence Plaza North, built as a Mitchell-Lama complex in the 1970s. When the buildings aged out of the program a decade ago, tenants fought and continue to fight to keep some portion of the apartments within the reach of the artists and electricians and teachers and waitresses who live there. The legal battles are an object lesson for the city in the challenges of preserving the affordability of subsidized housing. Over the next 10 years, more than 53,000 rental units, including some in Mitchell-Lama buildings, will risk losing their subsidies and be subject to market rates.
翠贝卡的社区则与之相反，成了那些穿梭于6000平方英尺（约557平方米）的跃层公寓与SoulCycle健康俱乐部之间的对冲基金太太们的神殿。在那里，硕果仅存的一点点经济多样性，都是因为有独立广场北部(Independence Plaza North)的几栋39层高的大厦。这几栋大楼属于20世纪70年代的米契拉玛(Mitchell-Lama)综合体。十年前，这些大楼从该计划中功成身退后，租户们曾为保留居住在那里的一些艺术家、电工、教师和女招待的公寓而打官司，并且一直在打官司。 这些官司就成为了一堂实验课，让纽约市学习如何面对在保持受补贴住房的可负担性时，所要面临的挑战。再过十年，超过53000套租赁公寓——包括米契拉玛几栋大楼中的某些公寓，将会面临失去补贴的风险，并屈从于市场价格。
“It’s never that you just sit back and say you’ve won,” said Diane Lapson, who is president of the tenants’ association. At this point there is more commonality than friction between market-rate tenants and the old guard. “My mantra has been rent protection for everybody,” she said, explaining that she seeks to keep rents from escalating for luxury tenants as well.
“你只是袖手旁观就说自己赢了，这种事从来就不存在，”该租户协会的主席黛安·兰普森(Diane Lapson)说。在这个节骨眼儿上，那些走市场价格的租户与这些保守派之间的共同利益，比相互摩擦更多。“我已经在反复念叨要为每个人提供租房保护，”她说，并解释她也在力图为那些豪华公寓的租户们阻止租金上涨。
“They are often two working people paying $5,000 a month,” Ms. Lapson said. “They aren’t millionaires either.”
“他们通常就是两个工薪族，每月得支付5000美元（约合人民币31172.5元）的租金，”兰普森说，“他们也不是什么百万富翁。”