Manhattan has its squares — Times, Herald, Union, Pershing, Sherman, Verdi and, ever since a blogger christened it, Hell.
曼哈顿有不少广场——时报广场(Times)、先锋广场(Herald)、 联合广场(Union)、潘兴广场(Pershing)、谢尔曼广场(Sherman)、威尔第广场(Verdi)；还有一处，自从一位博主将它称为地狱(Hell)广场后，这个名号就传开了。
Some people who live in a three-by-three-block stretch of the Lower East Side say it is a realm where they are condemned to eternal torture and punishment in this life, not the next one. They blame the neighborhood’s trendiness. They say it caught on as a hangout for people in their 20s and 30s lured by too many bars in too little space.
下东区(Lower East Side)有一片三乘三格局的街区。一些住在那里的居民说，在这儿生活，简直就像今生今世都要遭受无尽的折磨和惩罚，不得翻身。他们将此归咎于这片社区太过新潮。他们说，这片巴掌大的地方聚集了太多的酒吧，吸引了众多二、三十岁的年轻人，成为他们经常出没的地盘。
Hell Square, nine blocks between East Houston and Delancey Streets and Allen and Essex Streets, has about 50 bars and restaurants that serve liquor, and about 35 of them stay open until 4 a.m. Dennis Rosen, the chairman of the New York State Liquor Authority, described it several months ago as “one of the most saturated areas in the city — probably one of the most saturated in the world — in terms of liquor licenses.”
“地狱广场”(Hell Square)内共包含九个街区，其边界分别是东休斯顿街(East Houston Street)、德兰西街(Delancey Street)、艾伦街(Allen Street)和埃塞克斯街(Essex Street)。这里聚集了50家酒吧和供应酒水的餐厅，其中大约有35家营业到凌晨4点。几个月前，纽约州酒类管理局(New York State Liquor Authority)的主席丹尼斯·罗森(Dennis Rosen)将这里描述为“就酒类销售执照的拥有率而言，全市最饱和的地区之一——或许在全球也是如此。”
So another application for another liquor license has provoked a strong backlash from Lower East Siders who believe the neighborhood has more than its share of places for thirsty revelers. The latest application has been submitted by a club seeking to occupy 139 Ludlow Street, a five-story building between Stanton and Rivington Streets that has housed a funeral home and a printing company.
因此，新的酒类销售执照申请在下东区引起了强烈反对。居民们认为，这片街区里可供嗜酒之徒买醉的地方已经多得超出负荷了。最新提交申请的是一家会所，正打算入驻勒德洛街(Ludlow Street)139号。这是一座五层楼的建筑，位于斯坦顿街(Stanton Street)和利温顿街(Rivington Street)之间，楼内有一家殡仪馆和一家印刷公司。
In a neighborhood once filled with well-known delis and tenements, the Lower East Side Business Improvement District has crews that sweep the streets after nights of hard partying, clearing away empty bottles and cigarette butts. There are bars with dozens of beers on tap — and bouncers who stamp wrists — and there are neighbors who say things get out of hand.
在一片曾经遍布知名熟食店和出租房的社区里，下东区商业改进区(Lower East Side Business Improvement District)雇了专人负责打扫一夜狂欢后的街道，清理空瓶子和烟蒂。在这里，有成打出售散装啤酒的酒吧、在入场者手腕上盖章的保镖，也有抱怨这里一切都乱了套的居民。
Sara Romanoski, who lives in the neighborhood and has been involved with the L.E.S. Dwellers, a community group that opposes the Ludlow House liquor license, remembers being awakened in her apartment on Stanton Street one night by the voice of a man in the street. He was screaming a woman’s name — Emilia, Ms. Romanoski said.
莎拉·罗曼诺斯基(Sara Romanoski)就是这个社区的居民，也是社区组织L.E.S. Dwellers的成员。她说，她记得自己有一天晚上在斯坦街的公寓中被吵醒——街上有个男人一直鬼哭狼嚎地叫着一个女人的名字:艾米莉亚(Emilia)，罗曼诺斯基说。
“I could hear him as he went off my block onto Ludlow and around and back,” she said. “It went on for 30 minutes. I can’t imagine any other neighborhood where that is tolerated.”
“我能听出他穿过我住的这个街区，进入勒得洛街，然后绕了一圈又回来了，”她说，“整个过程持续了30分钟。我无法想象，还有哪个社区能够忍受得了这种事。”
Scott Cooke, who lives at Rivington and Ludlow Streets, said the traffic patterns that have been imposed to cope with the crowds are inconvenient — the police close down Rivington on weekends, he said. Diem Boyd, who founded L.E.S. Dwellers, said the traffic arrangements encourage bars to “take their party into the street,” an opinion Mr. Cooke echoed as he looked back on how the neighborhood had changed in the eight years since he moved in.
住在利温顿街和勒得洛街的斯科特·库克(Scott Cooke)说，为应对庞大的客流而采用的交通方式，给当地居民的生活造成了不便——警方每逢周末就会在利温顿街封路。L.E.S. Dwellers的创始人迪姆·博伊德(Diem Boyd)说，这样的交通安排，变相鼓励了酒吧“将派对开到大街上”。库克对此也颇有共鸣，他已经搬进来八年了，亲眼见证了社区的变迁。
“The city thinks it’s acceptable that they shut the street down on weekends,” he said. “It’s like Bourbon Street. There are no cars on Bourbon Street, people just party in the street. They traverse the street from bar to bar. In the French Quarter, they live in buildings on courtyards. Here, you could lean out the window and they could hand you a drink. It’s bar after bar after bar.”
“市政当局觉得周末封路是可以接受的，”他说，“这就和波旁街一样，人们直接在街上开派对。他们在街道上穿梭，一家一家酒吧泡过去。在法国区(French Quarter)，他们住在有庭院的房子里；而在这儿，你把身子探出窗口，他们就能给你递上一杯酒。这里酒吧挨着酒吧。”
Ludlow House would be a cousin of Soho House New York, a private club in a former warehouse on Ninth Avenue in the meatpacking district, and similar clubs in Hollywood, Miami, London and Berlin that tend to attract the wealthy and the well known. Some of them, including the one on Ninth Avenue, have guest rooms, but according to what its owners have told community leaders, Ludlow House would not.
勒德洛屋(Ludlow House)将成为Soho House New York这样的私人会所，后者位于肉库区(meatpacking district)第九大道上一座原属库房的建筑中。位于好莱坞、迈阿密、伦敦、柏林的同类会所，一般都会吸引名流富豪前来光顾。其中有些会所——包括第九大道的这家——设有客房，但根据勒德洛屋的所有人给社区领袖提供的信息，他们并不会这样。
It does plan, according to the liquor authority, to have bars on the first and second floors and a rooftop terrace off the fourth floor with “a pizza-and-salad-counter terrace.” In all, there would be 41 tables with 152 seats.
根据酒类管理局的信息，勒德洛屋确有计划在一楼和二楼开设酒吧，在四楼顶上建一个屋顶露台，“再设一个带食品柜台的露台，供应比萨和沙拉。”楼内总共会设41张桌子，配152个座位。
A rooftop terrace is a bad idea in a neighborhood with the density of the Lower East Side, Ms. Boyd said. “It’s three feet from people’s windows,” she said.
博伊德说，在下东区这种密度级别的社区里，建屋顶露台是一个馊主意。“它离别人家的窗户只有3英尺(约合0.91米)。”她说。
But a supporter, Tim Laughlin, the executive director of the Lower East Side Business Improvement District, said Ludlow House would be a place where “people could meet with clients, use a laptop, have lunch meetings, all those things that drive daytime foot traffic that permit our restaurateurs and entrepreneurs to have successful businesses during the day.”
但是下东区商业改进区的执行董事蒂姆·劳克林(Tim Laughlin)支持建屋顶露台。他说，勒德洛屋将成为吸引客流的好地方，“人们可以在这里见客户、用笔记本、开午餐会，这些都能带动日间客流量，使我们的餐厅老板和企业家在白天也有好生意。”
The local community board voted against approving the liquor license in May. In August, Ludlow House was the subject of a “500-foot hearing,” a standard proceeding for an application for an establishment within that distance of three or more existing ones. The administrative law judge who presided over the hearing, Raymond Di Luglio, issued a nine-page report that said, among other things, that the rooftop is “within four and five feet of the windows of at least two apartment tenants.” The liquor authority is expected to make a final decision on the license on Tuesday.
今年5月，当地社区委员会投票否决了勒德洛屋对酒类销售执照的申请。8月，勒德洛屋经历了“500英尺（约合152米）听证会”——如果方圆500英尺内已有至少三家酒类经营场所，那么执照的新申请人就必须走这个标准流程。主持听证会的行政法法官雷蒙德·迪·卢利奥(Raymond Di Luglio)发布了一份9页的报告，称其屋顶“离至少两家公寓租户的窗户只有4、5英尺（约合1.2至1.5米）。”此外还有一些其它缘故。酒类管理局将在周二（10月22日——译注）就执照问题做出最终裁决。
Some opponents are concerned that the Ludlow House application is for a club license, which, under liquor authority rules, could be held only by a nonprofit social club. Ms. Boyd questioned whether Ludlow House would have the same structure as, say, a college club with a charter and bylaws, not to mention tax-exempt status. She also said she was concerned that other bar owners would try to reclassify their operations as social clubs to win licenses.
有些反对者担心勒德洛屋之所以会提交申请，是为了拿到会所执照。因为按照酒类管理局的规定，只有非营利性的社交会所才能获得这种执照。博伊德质疑勒德洛屋是否会采取和高校俱乐部这类组织同样的架构，设立起规则和章程，更不用说取得免税地位了。她还说，她担心其它酒吧所有者也会将运营模式重新归类为社交会所，以便拿到执照。
A spokeswoman for Soho House said by e-mail, “It is still too early for us to offer any details surrounding Ludlow Street. However, we are enthusiastic for the project and look forward to hearing from the State Liquor Authority.”
Soho House的一名女发言人在电子邮件中称，“现在要透露勒得洛街一带的项目详情为时尚早。不过，我们对这个项目有很大热情，期待着参与纽约州酒类管理局的听证会。”
Ms. Boyd said Ludlow House would make Hell Square more hellish. “It will bring another wave of night life in,” she said, adding that it raised the prospect of establishments that would be more like those in the meatpacking district. “More congestion, more traffic, more pollution.”
博伊德说，勒德洛屋会将地狱广场变得更像地狱。“它会吸引另一拨喜欢过夜生活的人，”她说，并补充道，这会使地狱广场上的经营场所进一步向肉库区的状态靠拢。“拥堵、交通负荷和污染都会加剧。”