Sky View Parc, a mixed-use project in Flushing, Queens, that stumbled during the recession, only to right itself quickly in subsequent years, is barreling ahead with its next phase to a very strong reception.
天景豪苑(Sky View Parc)是皇后区法拉盛(Flushing)的一处综合用途开发项目，在经济衰退时期曾陷入困境，不过在随后几年里就得以重整旗鼓。如今，天景豪苑已进入二期工程，业务正在如火如荼地展开，反响非常热烈。
The 14-acre complex of three condominium towers, with a total of 448 apartments atop a shopping mall, is adding a fourth tower on that same mall roof. The new tower will have 235 units with balconies. And two more high-rises, with a total of about 560 units, are scheduled to follow in the next few years.
这片建筑群占地14英亩（约合5.7公顷），包含三栋坐落于一家商场之上的共管公寓大楼，其中共有448套公寓，如今正在同一商场上增建第四栋楼，将包含235个带阳台的单元。另有两栋包含大约560个单元的高楼，预计将在未来几年内开工。
Though the new tower is barely out of the ground, interest has been intense. Buyers snapped up more than half of the units in a single weekend day last month when sales launched, according to Onex Real Estate Partners, its developer.
虽然新大厦尚未拔地而起，但已在市场中引来热烈的兴趣。大厦的开发商Onex Real Estate Partners表示，上个月开售时，仅仅周末一天里，买房者就抢购了一多半的单元。
Bordered by train tracks, the polluted Flushing Creek and a city housing project, Sky View Parc can seem an unlikely hit. But Flushing, a major hub for New York’s Asian population, is enjoying a burst in interest, and in development projects.
天景豪苑被火车铁轨、污染的法拉盛河(Flushing Creek)和一个市政府的保障房项目环绕在当中，这样的地段，似乎不太可能受到热捧。但是，法拉盛作为纽约亚裔人口的一处主要聚居区，不仅购房者的兴趣正日益高涨，而且开发项目的数量也在迅速上升。
“I’ve always wondered why Sky View has done so well, considering its surroundings,” said Xuejie Wong, a real estate lawyer who works with neighborhood developers. But for the stampede of buyers, “it’s the attraction of being in a self-contained community.”
“我一直想不明白，为什么天景豪苑卖得这么火爆，毕竟它的周边环境不是太好，”与社区开发商合作的房地产律师王雪洁（音）表示，“它的吸引力在于，它位于一个相对独立的社区。”
With floor-to-ceiling windows and glass balcony railings, the newest tower was intended to have a much lighter look than its more fortresslike predecessor. A luxury vibe was wanted, too, which explains the Bosch appliances, Grohe faucets and Kohler tubs, said Michael Dana, the president and chief executive of Onex. “The architecture is quite different,” Mr. Dana said. He added, “There’s nothing like this in Queens.”
最新那栋大厦里将配备落地窗和玻璃阳台栏杆，与形同堡垒的三座旧楼相比，其采光将有显著改善。而豪华的氛围也是必需的，Onex的总裁兼首席执行官迈克尔·达纳(Michael Dana)说，因此房内配备了博世(Bosch)家电、高仪(Grohe)水龙头和科勒(Kohler)浴缸。“这栋楼非常不一样，”达纳说，他还补充道，“它在皇后区是绝无仅有的。”
Naturally, prices at the tower, to be completed in fall 2016, are also steeper than at its predecessors. Units are listed for $950 a foot, or from $450,000 for studios to $2 million for three-bedrooms, said Mr. Dana, who added that 120 people signed contracts on Jan. 24 at that sales kickoff event, which started early, and finished late, because about 700 prospective buyers showed up.
自然了，这栋拟于2016年秋季完工的大厦，在房价上也会远远超过一期的旧楼。达纳称，新大厦的单元挂牌价为每平方英尺950美元（约合每平方米人民币66037元）；或者说，价位最低的单间公寓是45万美元（约合人民币282万元），价位最高的三居室是200万美元（约合人民币1251万元）。达纳还补充说，1月24日的开售活动开始得很早，结束得很晚，因为大约有700名潜在购房者出席。活动上有120名顾客签订了合同。
In contrast, units in the first three towers, which wrapped sales in 2013, went for $750 a foot, according to Onex. In Flushing, the median list price for condos and co-ops is about $500 a square foot, according to a recent search on StreetEasy.com. This fall, the fifth 275-unit tower will go vertical, and next winter, the sixth and final one, also with 275 units, will be built. The three new towers, which will share the name the Grand at Sky View Parc, will cost $600 million to develop, according to Onex, as part of the $1.3 billion Sky View Parc project.
相比之下，根据Onex的数据，一期的三栋大楼于2013年开售，价格为每平方英尺750美元（约合每平方米人民币52134元）。根据StreetEasy.com最近的一次搜索结果，在法拉盛，共管公寓和合作公寓的房价中值为每平方英尺500美元（约合每平方米人民币34756元）左右。今年秋天，包含275个单元的第五栋大厦将拔地而起；而第六栋、也就是最后一栋大厦，将于明年冬季开工，也将包含275个单元。Onex表示，三栋新大厦并称为天景豪苑The Grand，预计开发成本在6亿美元（约合人民币38亿元），属于总耗资13亿美元（约合人民币81亿元）的天景豪苑项目。
While Sky View may be buoyant now, the mood was once somber. In 2008, Onex and its then-partner Muss Development, a developer based in Queens, broke ground on a former parking lot in a bedraggled industrial area that had been rezoned for residential use in the 1990s.
天景豪苑现在或许是活力四射的，但它也曾有过低迷的时候。2008年，Onex与当时的合作伙伴、总部设在皇后区的开发公司Muss Development，在一个曾是停车场的地块上破土动工，地点位于一片在20世纪90年代被改划为住宅区的破败工业区内。
But the project suffered construction delays during the recession. It was supposed to be completed in 2009 but didn’t open until 2011, which prompted a lawsuit from frustrated buyers. Ultimately, more than 100 of them received refunds, and in summer 2011, sales essentially started again from scratch, though the second time seemed a charm. The building was sold out by 2013.
但是在经济衰退期间，该项目发生了施工延误，本应在2009年完工，结果直到2011年才开盘。忍无可忍的购房者们和项目打起了官司，最终一百多人收到了退款；2011年夏天，销售工作几乎是重新从零开始，只不过，这一次的行情似乎很火爆。到2013年，所有单元被抢购一空。
After those sales, Muss sold its share of the development to Onex. What has likely helped the project steam ahead is the success of the Shops at Skyview Center, a bustling multilevel, 800,000-square-foot mall. Fully leased, including national retailers like Nordstrom Rack and Target, as well as restaurants like Grandma’s Dim Sum, the mall has about 5 million visitors annually, Onex said.
销售工作结束后，Muss将其在项目中的份额出售给了Onex。这个项目之所以会突飞猛进，很可能因为天景中心(Skyview Center)的商铺大获成功。天景中心是一座占地80万平方英尺（约合7万平方米）、人气兴旺的多层商场，内部商铺已全部租出，入驻商家既包括诺德斯特龙百货公司(Nordstrom Rack)、塔吉特(Target)等全国性的零售商，也包括外婆家(Grandma’s Dim Sum)这样的餐馆。Onex表示，商场每年的客流量大约有500万人次。
Though the mall, and the sidewalk outside it, can be crowded and loud, Sky View provides a garden on its roof to allow its residents to achieve some peace. Nearly five acres, the open space features a putting green, dog park and tennis courts, and it will be joined by a few more acres of amenities, including an outdoor pool, when the Grand at Sky View Parc opens. There will also be a 10,000-square-foot gym, with Turkish baths. Manhattan’s skyscrapers line the horizon.
虽然商场及其外面的人行道可能有些拥挤嘈杂，但是天景豪苑在屋顶修了一座花园，给居民保留了一丝安宁。这处开阔的空间有将近五英亩（约合2公顷），设有一片高尔夫轻击区、一个遛狗公园和几处网球场。天景豪苑的The Grand开盘时，还会为这里添上几英亩的设施，包括一座室外泳池。此外，该楼盘还将配备一座占地1万平方英尺（约合929平方米）的健身房，含土耳其浴室。而曼哈顿的摩天大楼，将为它装点地平线景观。