NEW YORK — Two police officers sitting in their patrol car in Brooklyn were shot at point-blank range and killed Saturday afternoon by a man who, officials said, had traveled to the city from Baltimore vowing to kill officers. The suspect then committed suicide with the same gun, the authorities said.
纽约——周六下午在布鲁克林区，两名坐在巡逻车里的警察被一名男子近距离射杀，官员称，这名男子来自巴尔的摩，曾誓言要干掉几名警察。官方表示，这名男子之后用同一把手枪自杀身亡。
The officers, Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos,were in the patrol car near Myrtle and Tompkins Avenues in Bedford-Stuyvesant in the shadow of a tall housing project when the gunman, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, walked up to the passenger-side window and assumed a firing stance, Police Commissioner William J. Bratton said. He shot several rounds into the officers' heads and upper bodies, the authorities said. They never drew their weapons.
这两名警官一人叫刘文健（Wenjian Liu 音译），另一人叫拉斐尔·拉莫斯(Rafael Romos)，二人当时位于贝尔福·司徒文森区(Bedford-Stuyvesant)桃金娘与汤普金斯大道(Myrtle and Tompkins Avenues )一处高大住宅区的荫蔽下，他们呆在巡逻车里。这时，这位名为伊斯迈依·布林斯利(Ismaaiyl Brinsley)的枪手径直走到了副驾驶座的窗前，摆出了开枪的姿势，警察局局长威廉·J·布拉顿(William J. Bratton)说。他向警官的头部和上身击发了多发子弹，官方称。两名警察没有拔出他们的武器。
Brinsley, 28, then fled down the street and onto the platform of a nearby subway station, where he killed himself as officers closed in. The police recovered a silver semiautomatic handgun from the station, Bratton said.
今年28岁的布林斯利随后顺着街道逃逸，并跑到了附近一处地铁月台，在警方逼近后自杀身亡。布拉顿说，警方在地铁站内找到了一支银色半自动手枪。
Brinsley, who had a long rap sheet of crimes including robbery and carrying a concealed gun, is believed to have shot his former girlfriend in Baltimore before traveling to Brooklyn, the authorities said. He made statements on social media suggesting that he planned to kill police officers, the authorities said.
官方表示，前科累累的布林斯利此前还有过抢劫、持有未登记枪械的案底，据信他在从巴尔的摩出发来到纽约之前，还开枪击伤了自己的前女友。官员们还说，他在社交媒体上发言暗示自己计划要杀死警察。
Authorities in Baltimore had sent a warning that Brinsley had made these threats, but it was received in New York at essentially the same time as the killings, officials said.
官员们说，巴尔的摩当局已经发出警告称布林斯利发出了上述威胁，但几乎就在纽约方面收到警告的同一时刻，发生了枪杀。
The shootings, the chase and the suicide of Brinsley, and the desperate but failed bid to save the lives of the officers — their uniforms soaked in blood — turned a busy commercial intersection on the Saturday before Christmas into a scene of pandemonium and horror beneath leaden gray skies.
布林斯利的枪击、对其围捕、他最后的自杀，还有最后对两名警官绝望且失败了的抢救——他们的制服被鲜血浸红——让圣诞前的周六里这个繁忙的商业十字路口，变成了沉重的灰色天空下混乱、恐怖的罪案现场。
The double killing comes at a moment when protests over police tactics have roiled the city. While generally peaceful, they spilled last weekend into an assault on two police lieutenants on the Brooklyn Bridge. Since a grand jury declined to bring criminal charges in the case of Eric Garner, the Staten Island man who died after a police chokehold in July, protesters have filled the streets nightly to call for changes in city policing policies.
这起两人枪杀发生之时，正是针对警察执法方式的抗议游行席卷全城之际。尽管总体上比较和平，但上周末示威活动演变成了在布鲁克林桥(Brooklyn Bridge)上对两名警长的攻击。自从大陪审团拒绝在埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)案上提出刑事指控后，示威者们就在夜间走上街头，要求改变纽约的治安条例。加尔那是斯塔顿岛(Staten Island)人，在7月一起与警察冲突中被锁喉后死亡。