When I am on my way to a big dinner at a restaurant in Flushing, Queens, I like to limber up by eating a dozen of Helen You’s dumplings.
去皇后区法拉盛吃大餐的路上，我喜欢先去吃12个海伦·尤(Helen You)做的饺子垫垫肚子。
For the last eight years, Ms. You has been the chef and proprietor of the Tianjin Dumpling House, which is not so much a house as a narrow shaft of elbow room behind a sneeze guard in the basement of a Chinese food-vendors’ market on Main Street. The first dumpling of hers that I tried had a sea-bass stuffing cut with minced ginger, which gave bracing clarity to the few drops of broth sealed inside. It was so satisfying that at first I felt no need to branch out.
尤女士做天津饺子馆的大厨和老板已经八年了。天津饺子馆实际上算不上餐馆，只是商业街中国美食摊贩市场地下室里一片狭长的空间，有个玻璃罩柜台。我最初品尝的是海鲈鱼馅，里面的碎姜给那几滴肉汁带来几分清爽。一开始我吃得心满意足，觉得没必要再尝试别的口味了。
The dumplings were irresistibly priced, though, at about $5 a dozen, and I began to experiment with new ones: lamb and chopped zucchini humming with Sichuan peppercorns, maybe, or pork with threads of fresh dill. These were wildly good, too.
不过，这里的饺子价格便宜得让人难以抵挡——大约是5美元12个——所以我开始尝试新口味：花椒碎西葫芦羊肉馅，或者鲜茴香猪肉馅。这些也非常好吃。
One day, I noticed a sign inviting me to pick my own custom dumpling fillings from a grid of 24 ingredients. This paralyzed me. Ms. You clearly had a kind of genius for creating miniature worlds of flavor. Who was I to tell her what she ought to fold into her circles of dough? It was as if somebody had handed me a box of feathers, bones, beaks and flesh and said, “Here, build a parrot.”
有一天，我注意到一个招牌，邀请我从有24种原料的格子里选择自己的特制饺子馅。这把我弄晕了。尤显然有一种天分，能创造一个美味的迷你世界。而我呢，我是谁，我有什么资格告诉她应该往圆圆的饺子皮里包什么呢？就好像有人递给我一盒羽毛、骨头、鸟嘴和肉，然后对我说，“来吧，做一只鹦鹉。”
What I wanted was more of Ms. You’s recipes, not mine, and I got my wish earlier this year when Ms. You opened Dumpling Galaxy a few blocks from her original stall. Dumpling Galaxy sits back from the street, inside a shiny new mall it shares with a Korean-French bakery and a purveyor of sparkly false eyelashes. Ms. You designed the striking, modern interior herself, splashing bold Chinese red across walls with a basket-weave relief and building deep semiprivate booths, each with its own TV screen showing highlights of the 100 dumplings on the menu.
我想要的是她的更多菜谱，不是我的。今年年初，尤在离原来店铺几个街区远的地方开设了百饺园(Dumpling Galaxy)，我的愿望实现了。它位于一个背街的新小商场里，商场里还有一个韩国法式面包房和一个卖闪亮假睫毛的店铺。尤亲自设计室内装潢，它引人注目且具有现代感。墙上是鲜艳的中国红搭配网格浮雕。里面设计了很多纵深的半私人隔间，每个隔间的墙上都有一个电视屏幕，展示菜单上那一百种饺子里的佼佼者。
The Dumpling Channel goes heavy on cross-section shots that reveal the central core of filling. Take a good look, because this is a sight you should never see if you want to get the most out of a meal at Dumpling Galaxy. Resist the exploratory nibble. Dip one side in black vinegar and soy, and paint it with chile oil if you like, then pocket the whole thing in your mouth. It won’t gush with a waterfall of broth. It will, however, hold a few drops of liquid shed by the filling as the dumpling boiled. Those drops belong to you.
屏幕上展示了很多饺子的横切面，让你能看到馅料的中央部分。你要好好看看这个，因为如果你想在百饺园好好享受一顿大餐，你吃的时候就不应该看到横切面。不要探究性地一点点轻咬。把饺子的某一面在黑醋和酱油里蘸一下，喜欢的话可以再蘸点辣椒油，然后整块放入口中。这样不会溅出很多肉汁。相反，它能裹住饺子馅在煮熟的过程中流出的几滴汁液。这几滴汁液属于你。
Sometimes those juices taste like fresh green herbs, as when Ms. You mixes cilantro with minced lamb, or dill with excellent softly scrambled eggs. Sometimes they combine those qualities with a whiplash of heat, as in the head-twistingly good spicy beef dumpling, seasoned with scallions, fresh red and green chiles, and searing dried chile sauce.
有时，那些汁液尝起来像新鲜的绿色草本植物，因为尤会在切碎的羊肉中加入香菜，或者在鲜美柔嫩的炒鸡蛋中加入小茴香。有时那些汁液中有浓烈的辣味，比如辣得让人头晕的辣牛肉饺子，里面的配料有大葱、鲜红辣椒、鲜绿辣椒和辛辣的干辣酱。
As a young girl in Tianjin, China, Ms. You was taught to cook by her mother and grandparents. Her dumplings are sturdy, knobby, domestic creatures in the Northern Chinese tradition. Sometimes you see the ghostly outline of the fillings through the shiny white skins, and sometimes you can’t. But her dumplings are stuffed to order, and Ms. You fine-tunes them with the sensitivity of a natural cook who listens to her ingredients. Mixing shrimp with two varieties of celery, the more bitter and self-assured Chinese and the sweeter, shyer Western kind, and using both stalks and leaves, she builds exhilarating harmonies.
尤小时候在天津，妈妈和爷爷奶奶教她做饭。她做的饺子是中国北方传统的结实多馅的家庭美味。有时你能透过闪亮的白色面皮隐约看到馅料的轮廓，有时不能。不过，尤的饺子是现点现做，作为一位熟知原料属性的天才厨师，她凭借自己的敏感对它们微做调整。她把虾和两种芹菜搭配——更苦、更自信的中国芹菜和更甜、更羞涩的西芹，菜茎和菜叶都用——实现了令人愉快的和谐。
It would be a miracle on Main Street if all 100 varieties at Dumpling Galaxy were equally lovable. They aren’t. The one with shrimp, scallops and crab meat didn’t deliver the sweet seafood luxury it promised. Steamed har gow were less juicy than those wheeled around on the best dim sum carts. My strategy is to seek out the proprietary blends, which justify prices that can be slightly higher (as much as $7.95 for six) than those at other places in Flushing, including Tianjin Dumpling House.
如果百饺园的一百种饺子都同样惹人喜爱，那会成为商业街上的一个奇迹。事实不是这样的。虾肉、扇贝和蟹肉饺子没有实现它承诺的海鲜奢华享受。蒸虾饺不如最好的饮茶店推车上卖的那么多汁。我的策略是找出那些独家特制的馅料，它们的价格可能比法拉盛的其他饺子馆略微贵一些（最高可达六个7.95美元），包括天津饺子馆，但是它们值这个价。
I’ve eaten entire meals that delivered less flavor than a single one of Ms. You’s dumplings stuffed with terrific little meatballs of duck and shiitakes. And if those hadn’t cheered me up, the fried dumplings would. Ms. You pours watery cornstarch into the pan, which bubbles and browns into a shatteringly thin, dumpling-studded pancake. Cracking that crust, I felt like the happiest guy in the galaxy.
有时我吃完一整顿饭所感受到的滋味还没有海伦·尤美味的鸭肉香菇饺子这一种馅带给我的滋味多。如果它也没能让我高兴起来，那煎饺一定会。尤把稀玉米淀粉倒入煎锅里，它滋滋作响，变成了极薄的金黄色煎饼，包裹着饺子。咬着那松脆的外皮，我感觉自己是银河系最幸福的人。
That feeling wavered whenever I had to lean out of my booth with one arm extended for minutes at a time to ask for water or the check or for empty dishes to be cleared. It was like hailing a cab on Broadway at 5 p.m., but less effective. As time dragged on, I wondered why nobody had invented Uber for waiters.
但是，每次我想要水、想结账或者想让服务员把空盘子拿走时，我必须得从包厢里探出身子，伸出一只胳膊等好几分钟才有人来。在这种时候，那种美妙的感觉就削减了很多。就像下午五点在百老汇打车，而且效率更低。随着时间慢慢过去，我很想知道为什么没人做一个召唤服务员的Uber应用。
Looking at the tables of Chinese families, I noticed that their dumpling consumption was considerably less piggish than mine. They might share a single order, a mere six dumplings, before moving on to the dishes from Northern China, Hunan and Fujian on the rest of the menu. (One cook specializes in each region.)
看了华裔顾客的餐桌，我发现他们吃饺子远没有我那么贪心。他们可能只分享一份饺子（只有六个），然后就开始点菜单上的北方菜、湘菜和福建菜（一个厨师专做一个地区的食物）。
I came to see the wisdom of allowing fish and vegetables to supplement all the boiled flour I was ingesting. The Hunanese preserved pork stir-fried with stubby lengths of pickled long beans was superb, both fiery and tart. Triple delight vegetables (green chiles, barely tender potato and eggplant so creamy it may as well be pudding) was an unusually good version of the Dongbei standby. Whole fish with spicy bean sauce was a hit at my table, even if we did use the marvelous sauce to obscure the fish’s slightly muddy flavor.
我后来意识到用鱼和蔬菜来平衡我摄取的煮熟的面粉是明智的做法。湖南腊肉炒切碎的酸豆角非常美味，又辣又酸。地三鲜（青椒、土豆、和茄子都非常绵软，像布丁一样）是一道非常好吃的东北保留菜品。辣豆瓣酱烤全鱼是我餐桌上的热门菜，虽然我们确实是用异常美味的豆瓣酱来掩盖鱼的土腥味。
You can find these dishes elsewhere, but no other kitchen offers such an embarrassment of dumpling riches, including dessert. Some sweet dumplings are pinched in dough like the savory ones, such as tart dried hawthorn berries with white wood ears, or pear with eight treasures, which I now think of as fruitcake pirogi.
你在其他地方也能吃到这些美食，但是其他厨房不会提供这么多种饺子，包括甜点。有些甜饺子的形状和咸饺子一样，比如山楂银耳馅的或八珍梨子馅，现在我觉得它们像水果派。
Others, called tang yuan, are tinted orbs of dough that are springy and chewy, like mochi. My favorite was the pumpkin-flavored globe with a sugary paste of black sesame at the core. These orange globes arrived, not on a plate like the others, but bobbing in a thick, clear, steaming soup. I could stare at ingredient lists all day and never come up with a parrot like this.
其他形状的甜点叫汤圆，它们是彩色的圆面团，弹力十足，很有嚼头，像糯米团。我最喜欢的是南瓜味的汤圆，里面有甜甜的黑芝麻。不像其他甜品，这些橙色汤圆不是放在盘子里上桌，而是泡在浓郁清澈、热气腾腾的汤里。就算让我一整天都盯着原料列表，我也绝不可能想出这样一只“鹦鹉”。