The phone calls came in rapid succession, each call more frantic than the last, made by a woman intent on warning her relatives that her husband’s 25-year-old cousin, who had been staying with their family only a few days, was not acting right.
一名女子快速地打出了一连串电话，电话一个比一个慌乱。她是想提醒自己的亲戚，她丈夫的表弟行为异常。表弟现年25岁，只在他们家住了几天。
By the time the woman could get any of her family to stop by her home in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, on Saturday, it was too late. Inside the apartment, the woman, Qiao Zhen Li, lay unconscious in the kitchen, next to her 5-year-old son, Kevin Zhuo; both were mortally wounded. The bodies of her three other children, all stabbed to death, were in a rear bedroom.
这天是周六，等到终于有家人顺便去她位于布鲁克林日落公园的家里看看的时候，为时已晚。公寓里，名为李巧珍（音译）的这名女子躺在厨房里不省人事，身旁是她5岁的儿子凯文·卓(Kevin Zhuo)，两人都身受重伤。房子后面的一间卧室里躺着她另外的三个孩子，都已被人刺死。
“They bang on the door and they bang on the door,” Chief Philip Banks III, the Police Department’s highest-ranking uniformed officer, said of Ms. Li’s relatives. When they finally got inside on Saturday night, they came upon the carnage, and the man believed to be responsible, Chen Mingdong, covered in blood.
“他们一直在大声敲门，”当地警局职位最高的制服警员菲利普·班克斯三世警长(Philip Banks III)说，指的是李巧珍的亲属。周六晚上，他们最终进到屋里，发现了这起谋杀事件，以及据信应为本案凶手的男子陈明东（音译）。陈明东浑身是血。
Mr. Chen, the cousin, was charged on Sunday with five counts of murder. He was also charged with assaulting a police officer and resisting arrest, after he attacked an officer inside the 66th Precinct station house while his arrest was being processed.
陈明东就是前文提及的表弟，于周日被控谋杀五人。他还被控袭警拒捕，在第66区(66th Precinct)警局履行逮捕手续的时候，他袭击了一名警察。
The killings tore through the family like a fire: sudden and complete. The five murders in the three-room home on 57th Street, where the children and their parents enjoyed a seemingly ordinary life, the police said, stood out for their brutality and magnitude.
这场杀戮像大火一样毁了这个家庭，毫无征兆，彻彻底底。这处三居室的住宅位于第57街，这家的孩子和父母过着看上去很平凡的生活。警方说，这桩谋杀案极其残忍、极其严重，格外怵目惊心。
It was “not something that has been seen before in recent memory,” said John J. McCarthy, the Police Department’s chief spokesman. Chief Banks said the scene was one that seared into memory, calling the crime an “unspeakable act” visited upon a “normal family.”
警局首席发言人约翰·J·麦卡锡(John J. McCarthy)说，这是“近来不曾有过的事情”。班克斯警长说，现场让人无法忘怀，并称这起事件是一个“寻常人家”遭遇的“无法言喻的灾难”。
That very New York normality appeared to grate on Mr. Chen, who lived an impoverished and itinerant life between Chinatown in Manhattan, Chicago and most recently, his cousin’s home in Sunset Park. Under interrogation by detectives, conducted in Mandarin, he told of his disillusionment with life since coming to the United States in 2004 and of his jealousy toward those who had found success here. The police listed him as unemployed.
似乎正是纽约的这种正常状况激怒了陈明东。穷困潦倒的他辗转于曼哈顿的唐人街和芝加哥，最近又到了位于日落公园的表哥家。在探员用普通话进行讯问期间，他讲述了自己2004年来美国后对生活的绝望，以及对那些在这里找到了成功的人的嫉妒。警方将其列为无业人员。
But it remained unclear what prompted him to turn his rage on his cousin’s wife, Ms. Li, 37, and their four children, identified by the police as Linda Zhuo, 9; Amy Zhuo, 7; Kevin; and William Zhuo, 1.
然而，仍不清楚是什么促使他将怒气洒在了37岁的表嫂和她的四个孩子身上。警方确认那四个孩子的身份分别是9岁的琳达·卓(Linda Zhuo)、7岁的埃米·卓(Amy Zhuo)、凯文和1岁的威廉·卓(William Zhuo)。
The police said Mr. Chen appeared to have stayed with them before without incident. The family did not appear to be better-off than those who lived around them in their Chinese enclave near Ninth Avenue in Brooklyn, neighbors said. They sent their three school-age children to a local public school, the Education Department said. Ms. Li stayed at home with William. The authorities had no record of troubles in the household.
警方说，陈明东此前似乎和他们相安无事。邻居们则表示，在布鲁克林第九大道附近的华人聚居区，这家人似乎也不比周围其他人富裕。教育部(Education Department)说，这家人把三个学龄儿童送到了当地的一家公立学校。李巧珍和威廉留在家里。当局没有这家人遇到麻烦的记录。
May Chee, who is a neighbor of the family and grew up on the block, said she often saw Ms. Li outside with her children, who would chase one another and play with the other children who live along 57th Street, a block teeming with young people. Ms. Li watched over them from her front stoop, often chatting on her cellphone, Ms. Chee said. She added that the mother did not speak much English.
这家人的邻居梅·支(May Chee)是在这个街区长大的。她说自己经常看到李巧珍和孩子们在屋外，孩子们会相互追逐，并和生活在第57街的其他孩子嬉戏。这个街区有许多年轻人。支女士说，李巧珍会在自家门阶上照看那些孩子，经常都在手机上和人聊天。她补充说，这位母亲不太会说英语。
Few in the area recalled Mr. Chen, who had only recently arrived there. A woman who lives next to the family and gave her name only as Ms. Zheng said she had seen the cousin in recent days standing outside the two-story, two-family home, smoking cigarettes and talking on the phone. A cousin of the mother, Yun Gao, 29, told reporters near the home on Sunday that Mr. Chen was emotionally unstable; she did not elaborate.
没有几个街坊能想起陈明东，他是最近才到这里的。卓家的一名女街坊说，近日，她曾看见陈明东站在这个住了两家人的二层住宅外面，一边抽烟一边打电话，这名女街坊只说自己姓郑。周日，李巧珍的表妹、29岁的高云（音译）在卓家附近告诉记者，陈明东的情绪不稳定；她没有细说个中详情。
The only weapon used in the killings, the police said, was a large kitchen knife, described by the authorities as a meat cleaver. Chief Banks said that the bodies “were cut and butchered” and that most of the wounds were to the neck and torso.
警方说，凶手只用了一件武器，是一把巨大的厨用刀具，据当局形容，这是一把切肉刀。班克斯警长说，遇害者“遭到砍杀”，大部分伤口都在脖颈和躯干。
Ms. Chee said she saw the children’s father, Yi Lin Zhuo, 31, arrive after the police cars on Saturday night. “He was crying,” she said. “He was screaming.”
支女士说，周六晚上，她见到孩子的父亲，31岁的卓一林（音译）在警车抵达之后到达了现场。她说，“他在哭泣，在嚎叫。”
Two women arrived with him, one of them weeping.
有两名女性和他一同抵达，其中一名也在哭泣。
“It’s so sad,” Ms. Chee said. “The only thing I can do is pray for them, pray for the family. It’s crazy, you don’t kill kids. Don’t take it out on the kids.”
支女士说，“这太惨了。我能做的只是为他们祈祷，为这家人祈祷。真是疯了。再怎么样也不能杀孩子。不能把怨气撒在孩子身上。”
The nature of the attack, using a kitchen implement, pointed to spontaneity, and the number killed surprised even veteran investigators.
凶器是一件厨具，表明此次杀人案是一种突发的冲动行为，遇害者的人数甚至让老练的调查人员都感到吃惊。
“I just can’t think of anything like that,” said Vernon J. Geberth, a retired homicide commander who has dealt with thousands of murder investigations. “I’m going to call it a family annihilation, because that would be the technical term that you’d use, and most involve firearms.”
退休的凶杀组负责人弗农·G·盖贝特(Vernon J. Geberth)曾经办过数以千计的凶杀案，他说，“我简直想不起任何与此类似的案件。我打算把它称为灭门案，因为这是就你会使用的术语，这类案件大多数和枪械有关。”
It was a gun that was used by an Amityville, N.Y., man in 1974 to kill his parents, two brothers and two sisters in their home. Similarly, John E. List, a New Jersey accountant, shot his wife, mother and three teenage children to death in 1971.
1974年，来自纽约阿米蒂维尔的一名男子在家中杀死了他的父亲、两个兄弟和两个姐妹，用的是枪。新泽西州的会计约翰·E·利斯特(John E. List)在1971年杀死了他的妻子、母亲和三个十来岁的子女，用的也是枪。
But in terms of mass family killings using a knife, “we just don’t have any history of that,” Mr. Geberth said. Multiple stabbing deaths are uncommon in general because people have time to escape, he added, though children are often the victims because they are less able to do so.
然而，说到使用刀子的大规模家庭屠杀案，“我们确实没见过这样的案例，”盖贝特说。他还说，总的来说，持刀杀死多人的案件并不普遍，因为人们有时间逃走，不过，孩子们因为不太有能力这么做，往往会成为牺牲者。
Indeed, the killings recalled the stabbing deaths on the Upper West Side last year of two children, 6 and 2; the police arrested the family’s nanny, who was said to have harbored anger over her treatment by the children’s parents.
实际上，这起杀人案让人回想起去年发生在上西区的持刀杀人案，该案有两名儿童遇害，一个6岁、一个2岁；警方逮捕了家里的保姆，据说，她对孩子父母对待自己的方式积怨已久。
It was not clear what may have precipitated the killings inside the Sunset Park apartment or what caused Ms. Li to become alarmed.
目前还不清楚是什么原因触发了日落公园公寓内的杀人案，又是什么原因导致李巧珍惊慌起来。
Mr. Chen had no prior arrests in New York, the police said, and did not appear to have had trouble with the law in Chicago. Investigators believe that Mr. Chen, who does not speak English, has not left the United States since arriving here nearly 10 years ago.
警方说，陈明东没有在纽约被捕的记录，在芝加哥似乎也没有犯过法。调查人员认为，自将近10年前抵达美国之后，不会说英语的陈明东一直在美国居住。
Under interrogation by detectives, Mr. Chen spoke in general of feelings of resentment, the police said. “He made a very soft comment that since he’s been in this country, everyone seems to be doing better than him,” Chief Banks said.
警方说，在探员审问的过程中，陈明东笼统地谈到了他的愤恨之情。班克斯警长说，“他用了一种非常委婉的说法，说自从他来到这个国家之后，每个人似乎都比他过得好。”
“We’re not really sure what that means,” he added. “But that is the only thing that we have now. We’re still looking into it.”
他还说，“我们并不真的确定他这话的意思。不过，这是我们目前掌握的唯一信息。我们还在调查此案。”