The dowdy loft building at the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 52nd Street is about as blank as a building can get, just limestone and windows. But it sent the Vanderbilt family over the edge, the symbol of their defeat after years of attempts to preserve the residential sanctity of this stretch of New York’s most famous address.
一座风雨飘摇的跃层建筑，坐落在第五大道和第52街交汇处的东北角，里面要多空旷有多空旷，徒剩下石灰岩的墙壁和几扇窗户。正是这座建筑，把范德堡(Vanderbilt)家族给逼疯了。它的存在，昭示着一个事实——尽管范德堡家族多年来一直在纽约最著名的地段捍卫着他们神圣不可侵犯的居住权利，但他们的努力失败了。
Now the building has almost disappeared under renovation scaffolding, just the way the family whose opulent mansions once dominated this section of Fifth would have liked it. Even their millions could not save Vanderbilt Alley from what we used to call progress.
如今，这座建筑在装修工人的脚手架下，几乎已经被破坏殆尽。对于曾经在第五大道拥有大片豪宅的范德堡家族来说，这或许正是他们希望的结果。纵使他们拥有万贯家财，也无法将范德堡巷(Vanderbilt Alley)从曾被我们称为“发展”的事物中解救出来。
The death of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt in 1877 unleashed an estate of at least $100 million, and his heirs decided to use it to build the most expansive family enclave seen in New York before or since. Work on three sets of Fifth Avenue houses began in 1879: William H. Vanderbilt’s brownstone double house on the west side from 51st to 52nd Street; William K. Vanderbilt’s limestone French chateau at the northwest corner of 52nd; and Cornelius Vanderbilt II’s red brick and limestone house at the northwest corner of 57th, soon to stretch along the entire block up to 58th. Ultimately the family built eight large houses on the avenue between 51st and 58th Streets.
1877年，海军准将柯尼利尔斯·范德堡(Cornelius Vanderbilt)逝世，留下价值至少1亿美元（约合人民币6.2亿元）的遗产。他的继承人们决定利用这笔遗产在纽约建立一个空前绝后的最昂贵的家族领地。1879年，第五大道上有三套豪宅开始动工，分别是威廉·H·范德堡(William H. Vanderbilt)在第51到52街西侧的双拼式住宅；威廉·K·范德堡(William K. Vanderbilt)在第52街西北角的石灰岩法式城堡；柯尼利尔斯·范德堡二世(Cornelius Vanderbilt II)在第57街西北角的红砖和石灰岩住宅——该住宅很快占满了整个街区，延伸到了第58街。最终，范德堡家族在第51到58街之间，建造了八所大宅。
In the 19th century, the rich considered the presence of business in a residential section anathema, but trade and shops gradually migrated up Fifth Avenue anyway. By the 1890s, the gate-crashers were nibbling Vanderbilt toes just south of 50th Street.
在19世纪的富豪眼里，如果住宅区内开了商铺，是一件很煞风景的事情。尽管如此，贸易公司和商铺还是逐渐入驻了第五大道。到了19世纪90年代，这些“不速之客”已经入侵到第50街以南的地段，开始蚕食范德堡家族的地盘。
The Vanderbilts allied themselves with the Sloanes, the Goelets and other families interested in preventing a business beachhead on their section of Fifth Avenue. All seemed well until 1901, when the entire east side of Fifth, from 51st to 52nd Street, came on the market. The cynosure of New York social clubs, the Union Club, took the northeast corner of 51st, where Olympic Tower now stands.
范德堡家族与斯隆(Sloane)、格莱(Goelet)及其它志同道合的富豪家族联合起来，阻止商铺将“据点”建立到他们在第五大道的“地盘”里。一切似乎都很顺利，直到1901年，从第51街到第52街，整个第五大道东侧的房产纷纷上市。当时，纽约最受瞩目的会所Union Club入驻了第51街的东北角，也就是现在的奥林匹克大厦(Olympic Tower)所在的地方。
The Vanderbilts assumed others would buy the rest of the land for their mansions, but a syndicate suddenly filed plans for an 18-story apartment house to “ornament Fifth Avenue,” in the words of The New York Tribune. It is likely the Vanderbilts employed a term other than ornament to describe it.
范德堡家族以为，其他人会买下其余的土地，作为自住豪宅。不料，一家辛迪加(syndicate)突然提交了开发18层公寓楼的计划，按照《纽约论坛报》(The New York Tribune)的说法，这是为了“装点第五大道”。而范德堡家族则很可能会用“装点”以外的词来形容这项计划。
Circling the wagons can be a costly affair. The Vanderbilts ponied up $1 million to buy the land, and in 1902 came up with another million to build houses adjacent to the Union Club, solely to lock up the land, or such was their plan. Those were 645 and 647 Fifth Avenue. Then in 1904 the family sold the 52nd Street corner to Morton F. Plant for his own residence, now the flagship store of the jeweler Cartier, currently being renovated.
圈地盘是件费钱的事。范德堡家族支付100万美元（约合人民币620万元）买下了这片地。1902年，他们又拿出100万美元，在Union Club旁边建了两套房子，就是为了把地盘圈住，或者说，他们是这么打算的。这两套房子分别位于第五大道的645号和647号。1904年，范德堡家族将第52街街角的房子卖给了莫顿·F·普兰特(Morton F. Plant)用于自住。而现在，这套房子是珠宝商卡地亚(Cartier)的旗舰店，目前正在装修。
Like a balky square of linoleum, no sooner was the southeast corner pinned down than the northeast corner popped up. The site of the mansion of Madame Restell, and later the Langham Hotel, the corner was cleared and ready to go for who knows what when the Vanderbilts decided, around 1902, to swallow their pride and open their checkbook for an undisclosed sum.
按下葫芦浮起瓢，东南角的危机才刚平定下来，东北角又告急了。那里有一处地皮，曾经先后成为雷斯泰尔夫人(Madame Restell)的宅邸和朗廷酒店(Langham Hotel)的所在地；后来被清空，谁也不知道接下来它会是什么用途。于是在1902年左右，范德堡家族决定放下自尊，为它打开支票簿。至于金额是多少，我们不得而知。
At first William K. Vanderbilt Jr. was going to build a big house designed by Richard Howland Hunt, whose father had designed the limestone chateau across the street. But in 1904 the site went to the taciturn financier James Henry Smith, known to the press as “Silent Smith,” who let slip that the decorator William Baumgarten & Company was to design a house there for him. Mr. Smith decided to move to 68th Street, and it was next the turn of Commodore Frederick G. Bourne, the head of the Singer Sewing Machine Company, who hired Ernest Flagg to design a mansion for him. He, too, failed to build.
一开始，威廉·K·小范德堡打算建一所大房子，设计师是理查德·豪兰·亨特(Richard Howland Hunt)，其父曾设计了街对面的那栋石灰岩城堡。然而1904年，这块地皮被转给了少言寡语的金融家詹姆斯·亨利·史密斯(James Henry Smith)，媒体称之为“沉默的史密斯”。他无意间透露，装潢公司William Baumgarten & Company将为他设计一所房子。后来，史密斯决定搬到第68街，原来的地皮就转给了胜家缝纫机公司(Singer Sewing Machine Company)的高层、海军准将弗雷德里克·G·伯恩(Frederick G. Bourne)。他聘请欧内斯特·弗拉格(Ernest Flagg)为自己设计一所宅邸。结果，这座宅邸也没能建成。
Even so, in May 1904 the Real Estate Record and Guide confidently predicted that the Vanderbilt holdings would “long act as an absolute barrier to the incursions of business.” And indeed, in 1905 the Vanderbilts began another house on Fifth, on the west side from 52nd to 53rd.
即便如此，1904年5月，《房地产记录与指南》(The Real Estate Record and Guide)信心十足地预测称，范德堡家族的房产“将在很长一段时间内，成为抵御商铺入侵的坚固屏障。”事实上，到了1905年，范德堡家族又开始在第五大道建房子了，新房位于第52到53街的西侧。