A petite and picturesque Upper West Side penthouse, with a lush wraparound terrace that replicates the Old World charm of a European garden yet provides forever views of Central Park and the evolving cityscape to the south, is poised to enter the market at $3.995 million. The monthly maintenance for the light-filled two-bedroom two-bath unit, PHC, is $3,468.
上西区有一套面积小巧、美丽如画的顶层公寓，带有一座草木葱茏的环绕式露台。露台既复制了欧洲花园的古典风韵，又展现出中央公园的恒久景观，和常变常新的城南景致。该公寓将以399.5万美元（约合人民币2487万元）的价格面市。这套光线充足、两室两卫的公寓，门牌号为PHC，每个月的维护费用为3468美元（约合人民币21588元）。
On a “museum block” between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues at 118 West 79th Street, a 16-story 1925 building designed in the Italian Renaissance style by Emery Roth, the 1,300-square-foot penthouse shares the entire top floor and an elevator landing with just one other residence.
该公寓所在的住宅楼为一座建于1925年的16层建筑，位于西79街118号，地处哥伦布大道(Columbus Avenue)和阿姆斯特丹大道(Amsterdam Avenue)之间的“博物馆街区”。该建筑为意大利文艺复兴风格，由埃默里·罗斯(Emery Roth)设计。顶层公寓面积为1300平方英尺（约合121平方米）。整栋楼里只有一套住宅与之共享顶楼楼层及升降平台。
Privacy, quiet and an abundance of glass walls, doors and windows are givens: The terrace is reached by south-facing glass sliders from the living room as well as east-facing sliders from the dining area tucked in the southeast corner.
这套房子的优势在于隐私性强、环境安静，配备了数量充足的玻璃墙和门窗：露台可以从两个门进入，一个是起居室朝南的玻璃滑门，一个是用餐区东南角朝东的滑门。
The penthouse has new Wenge wood floors but, for prewar purists, it retains the original plaster door and ceiling moldings throughout, as well as two original marble-and-tile bathrooms.
顶层公寓新铺了非洲崖豆木地板，但为了吸引讲究战前风格的买家，这套房子完整保留了原来的石膏门和吊顶装饰，还保留了两间铺设大理石和瓷砖的浴室。
It is entered from a 9-by-7-foot foyer that opens, through a set of glass French doors with a matching overhead transom, onto the 29-by-15-foot living/entertainment room, where the ceiling is nine and a half feet high. Just off the compact but functional 9-by-6-foot kitchen, which has black granite countertops, a Sub-Zero refrigerator, and an east-facing window, is a breakfast bar with a solid black granite counter, a built-in wine refrigerator and a diamond-cut skylight for additional illumination. The sellers bought additional hall space, currently used as a walk-in pantry, which would allow the expansion of the kitchen to 13-by-6 feet if desired.
进门后，首先进入的是一道9*7英尺（约合2.7*2.1米）的门厅，门厅尽头是一对玻璃法式双开门，上有配套的悬空横梁。穿过法式门，即可进入29*15英尺（约合8.8*4.6米）的起居/娱乐室，天花板的高度为9.5英尺（约合2.9米）。厨房布局紧凑，但功能齐备，面积为9*6英尺（约合2.7*1.8米），里面配备了黑色花岗岩台面和一台Sub-Zero冰箱，还开有一扇朝东的窗户。从厨房再往里走，即可进入一间早餐吧，这里配备了一个耐用的黑色花岗岩柜台，一台嵌入式红酒冰柜，并安装了一扇钻石型的天窗，以增加额外照明。卖家购买了额外的大厅空间，目前该空间的用途是一间步入式的食品室。如有需要，厨房的面积还可扩大到13*6英尺（约合4.0*1.8米）。
The 16-by-14-foot master bedroom has two west-facing windows, a wall of closets and an en-suite bath. The 14-by-12-foot second bedroom, now used as an office and jewelry design studio, has windows that overlook the south terrace and beyond.
16*14英尺（约合4.9*4.3米）的主卧，设有两扇朝西的窗户，有一整面墙的衣橱和一间与卧室相连的浴室。14*12英尺（约合4.3*3.7米）的次卧，现被用作办公间和首饰设计工作室，开有多扇窗户，可从窗前俯瞰朝南的露台和露台以外的景观。
The 1,100-square-foot terrace, planted with a variety of mature evergreens, wisteria, hydrangea, willows and a lissome red-leafed Japanese maple tree that sways just outside the living room, is lighted for nighttime entertaining and has automatic irrigation and awnings. It runs the full 50-foot length of the apartment on the south side. The east side of the terrace, set up for alfresco dining, is 23-by-30 feet and overlooks Theodore Roosevelt Park, which surrounds the American Museum of Natural History; in an optical illusion afforded by the heightened vantage point, the greenery of the smaller park seems to segue into the broader expanse of Central Park across to Fifth Avenue.
1100平方英尺（约合102平方米）的露台上，种植了各种成熟的常绿植物、紫藤、绣球花、柳树，还有一棵婀娜多姿、随风摇摆的日本红叶枫树，就在客厅外。枫树由灯光装饰，用以夜间娱乐，并配备了自动灌溉系统和遮阳棚。露台南侧长50英尺（约合15.2米），与公寓等长。露台东侧设置了露天茶座，面积23*30英尺（约合7.0*9.1米），可俯瞰西奥多·罗斯福公园(Theodore Roosevelt Park)，该公园环绕着美国自然史博物馆(American Museum of Natural History)；由于高处产生的视觉错觉，小公园里的绿色植被似乎与更加广阔的中央公园、乃至第五大道的景观融为了一体。
The sellers, Wendy Neuss, an Emmy-nominated television producer, and her former husband, the actor Patrick Stewart of stage and “Star Trek” fame, bought the apartment for $1.8 million in 2003. Then based in California, they had intended to use it as a pied-à-terre. Instead, the couple, who married in 2000, separated and divorced; Ms. Neuss ultimately left Los Angeles and made the penthouse her full-time residence for a decade. “Circumstances have changed,” she said of their decision to part with it now.
卖家是艾美奖提名的电视制作人温蒂·纽斯(Wendy Neuss)和她前夫、舞台剧演员、《星际旅行》(Star Trek)著名演员帕特里克·斯图尔特(Patrick Stewart)。他们在2003年以180万美元（约合人民币1121元）的价格买下了这套房子。那时候他们住在加州，买这套房子只是用作歇脚的地方。结果，这对2000年结婚的夫妇后来分居、离婚了；纽斯最终离开了洛杉矶，此后十年里一直住在这套顶层公寓里。“情况已经变了，”她谈到自己的搬家决定时说。
Ms. Neuss said the terrace with its irreplaceable views was the reason they fell for the apartment, where she lives with two cats, Mack and Spencer. “Friends told us about it and said we definitely had to take a look at it,” she said. “We saw it and liked it immediately, but when we came back again and saw the views at night, that clinched it. I could picture having cocktail parties out on the terrace in the magic hour at sunset. And I already knew and liked the neighborhood. You step out the front door and you’re right in the middle of everything. Plus there’s Zabar’s.”
纽斯在公寓里养了两只猫——麦克(Mack)和斯宾塞(Spencer)。她说，她和前夫当初之所以看中这套公寓，是因为它的露台和绝美的景观。“朋友们跟我们说起这套房子，还说我们一定要亲眼见识一下，”她回忆道，“我们看了房子，当时就非常喜欢，不过真正相中它是因为，我们后来又回来看了一次房，发现夜景太美了。我甚至可以想象日暮时分在露台上举办鸡尾酒派对的情形。我已经了解了这个社区，而且非常喜欢。你走出家门，做什么事情都很方便。而且这里还有Zabar’s。”
Ms. Neuss planned the terrace landscaping herself, opting for what she describes as a verdant cottage garden feel: “When you’re inside the apartment, it seems like the outdoors comes right in, too, like you’re surrounded by nature.”
纽斯亲自设计了露台景观，她想营造一个草木葱茏的木屋花园氛围：“你在公寓里可以直接看到户外的景观，感觉就像生活在大自然里。”
The listing agent, Brian Lewis of Halstead Property, said the penthouse would be an unusual urban find in any neighborhood.
卖方经纪人是房地产公司Halstead Property的布莱恩·路易斯(Brian Lewis)。他说，这套顶层公寓放到任何一个社区，都是难得一见的都市住宅。
“It’s incredibly rare to have a penthouse with this much outdoor space,” Mr. Lewis said. “It’s wide enough so that it’s practical and usable for entertaining and serious gardening, and it has those unsurpassed views where you can actually see the layers of history of the city, from the protected brownstones of the Upper West Side down to the skyscrapers changing the horizon below Central Park South. The horizontal layout of the apartment is also unique; it helps capture all of the views and light.”
“有这么多户外空间的顶层公寓实在是少之又少，”路易斯说，“它的户外空间很宽敞，所以很实用，既可以用来开展娱乐活动，也可以用来认认真真地经营园艺。而且这里有无与伦比的景观，其实你可以从这些景观当中看到这座城市的历史层次。你既可以看到上西区一带受保护的褐石建筑，也可以看到中央公园南以外的高楼大厦，它们正在改变天际线的景观。这套公寓的平面布局也很独特，有助于捕捉所有的景观和采光。”