There is an expansive, 13-room duplex at 730 Park Avenue where time has stood still.
在公园大道(Park Avenue)730号，有一套宽敞的复式公寓，包含13个房间。在那里，时间就像停止了一般。
A typewriter gathers dust atop a table in the office; gold-rimmed China remains stacked in cabinets awaiting a dinner party never held. Large swaths of plaster have peeled off the ceiling and drifted down like dried leaves from a tree, blanketing the floors.
办公室的桌上放着一台积满灰尘的打字机；镶金边的瓷器依然堆在橱柜里，等待着永远不会举办的晚宴。大片灰泥已从天花板上剥落，它们就像从树上飘落的枯叶一样，盖在了地板上。
The apartment once served as the official residence of the ambassador to the permanent mission of Yugoslavia to the United Nations, its four terraces and grand foyer hosting heads of state and world leaders. When war erupted in the early 1990s, the Yugoslav ambassador left and closed the door behind him. The successor countries formed after the dissolution of Yugoslavia have spent the intervening years locked in inertia, as the apartment, which holds glimmers of its former glamour, remains vacant and in increasingly desperate shape.
这套公寓，曾经是南斯拉夫常驻联合国代表的寓所，带有四座露台和气派的门厅，曾经招待了各国首脑和世界领导人。当20世纪90年代初战争爆发时，南斯拉夫大使离开了这里，关上了身后的大门。南斯拉夫解体后，新成立的几个国家一直处于发展停滞的状态，而这套公寓虽然保留着一丝昔日的荣光，却由于长期无人居住，已变得日趋破败。
The apartment’s ownership is fractured among the five successor countries, including Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Serbia, with 39.5 percent, owns the largest stake and, not surprisingly, is frustrated with the lack of a sale. To remain in good standing with the co-op board, the country has been paying the unit’s monthly maintenance, which is not an insignificant amount, totaling more than $13,400 a month or $161,000 a year.
公寓的所有权，被南斯拉夫解体后新成立的五个国家分割，这五个国家分别是：塞尔维亚、克罗地亚、斯洛文尼亚、马其顿、波斯尼亚和黑塞哥维那。塞尔维亚持有的产权最多，占比39.5%。毫不意外的是，该国正为抛售产权而头疼。为了与合作公寓管委会保持良好的关系，该国一直在支付这个单元的每月维护费。这可是笔不小的数额，每月需支付13400美元（约合人民币83477元），换算成一年就是161000美元（约合人民币100万元）。
“I wish we could put it on the market and get some money and finish this already,” Mirjana Zivkovic, the consul general of Serbia in New York, told me recently.
“真希望我们能让它入市交易，换点钱回来，摆脱掉这件事。”塞尔维亚驻纽约总领事米里亚娜·日夫科维奇(Mirjana Zivkovic)最近告诉我。
While Washington is the nucleus for world diplomats, New York, as the home of the United Nations, has its fair share of foreign dignitaries. For decades, many of these governments were based around the quiet, elegant streets of the Upper East Side, where elite buildings beckoned them with their prewar detailing and traditional beauty. At 740 Park Avenue, for example, the building is notorious for rejecting many prominent would-be buyers, but its co-op board over the years has welcomed ambassadors to the United Nations from France, Turkey and Japan, as well as the German consul general.
尽管华盛顿是世界外交官的大本营，纽约作为联合国总部的所在地，也有许多外国使节。几十年来，许多国家的外事机构驻扎在上东区这片宁静、高雅的街区里。比如那栋位于公园大道740号的大楼，就曾将许多地位显赫的潜在买家都拒之门外，因而获得恶名。不过，来自法国、土耳其、日本的驻联合国大使，以及德国的总领事，一直受到这处合作公寓管委会的欢迎。
But just like airline flying was once considered chic, boasting a foreign ambassador as a neighbor no longer seems to carry the same cachet as it once did. More co-ops look askance at foreign governments in the wake of greater political turmoil and turnover. There are also legal issues to consider, such as diplomatic immunity, which can rankle many co-op boards.
然而，正如航天飞行曾被视为时髦的象征，与外交使节为邻也不再像过去那么有吸引力了。随着全球政治动荡和政权颠覆的加剧，越来越多的合作公寓管委会开始向外国政府投以怀疑的目光。此外还有法律问题需要考虑，比如外交豁免权，这可能会让许多合作公寓的管委会非常头疼。
And for the foreign governments, a number of them have capitalized on higher real estate values and sold their properties uptown to consolidate closer to the United Nations.
就外国政府而言，已有不少外国政府受益于房地产价值的上涨，卖掉它们在上城区的房产，以便搬迁到离联合国更近的地方。
The cash-strapped government of France recently listed two uptown properties in order to downsize and relocate closer to the United Nations. It has put on the market an 18-room duplex at 740 Park Avenue that serves as the residence for its ambassador to the United Nations for $48 million, as well as a 30-foot-wide townhouse at 1143 Fifth Avenue opposite Central Park for $32.5 million. The country has owned a home at 740 Park since 1949; it bought the duplex, which has six bedrooms (not including the maids’ quarters), five fireplaces and 38 windows, in 1978 for just $600,000.
囊中羞涩的法国政府，近日挂牌销售了两套位于上城区住宅区的房产，以便缩减规模，并迁到离联合国总部更近的地方。这两处待售房产包括公园大道740号的一套18间房的复式住宅，那里曾经是法国驻联合国大使的住所，要价4800万美元（约合人民币2.99亿元）；另一套是位于中央公园(Central Park)对面、第五大道1143号的一座30英尺（约合9米）宽的联排别墅。自1949年以来，法国一直在公园大道740号拥有房产；该国于1978年以区区60万美元（约合人民币374万元）的价格买下了这套复式住宅，带有六间卧室（不包括佣人房）、五个壁炉和38扇窗户。
“It is hard to make the argument that you are cutting back on social welfare for your people, but yet you have this asset worth $48 million; it just is not a very good story,” said Jed H. Garfield, an owner of the brokerage firm Leslie J. Garfield who is representing France in the sale of the townhouse at 1143 Fifth Avenue with his partner Francis O’Shea. France has set a deadline of Monday for accepting bids on the Fifth Avenue building, after which it will vet the best three or four offers.
“一方面你在削减人民的社会福利，另一方面却拥有价值4800万美元（约合人民币2.99亿元）的资产，这实在是说不过去；这话说出去真的不好听，”经纪公司Leslie J. Garfield的所有人杰德·H·加菲尔德(Jed H. Garfield)表示。加菲尔德目前与合伙人弗朗西斯·奥谢(Francis O’Shea)一起，代表法国销售第五大道1143号的联排别墅。弗朗西斯已经把买方出价的截止日期设在了周一，届时他们将挑选出三、四份最优报价。
“Transparency is very important for countries like France; it is vital because they don’t want anyone coming back and saying the process wasn’t fair,” Mr. Garfield said.
“透明的流程对于法国这类国家来说非常重要；之所以很重要，是因为他们不想日后有人翻这笔旧账，说交易不公平。”加菲尔德说。
Easing this transition for foreign diplomats are the condominium developments underway around the United Nations, such as the 88-unit 50 United Nations Plaza and a planned tower at 616 First Avenue.
对于想搬家的外交使节来说，有些共管公寓开发项目正在为他们提供便利，比如联合国广场50号，一座包含88个单元的建筑；还有第一大道616号，那里正计划建造一座大厦。
Yet, with the city’s real estate rules and quirky market forces, diplomatic dramas still abound. At 34 East 69th Street, for example, the art dealer Richard L. Feigen rents a large home that was owned by the government of Iran. It is now under the auspices of the United States Department of State’s Office of Foreign Missions, according to Mr. Garfield, who rented the building to Mr. Feigen a dozen years ago. And a 40-foot-wide mansion at 124 East 80th Street that belongs to the government of Iraq has sat mostly abandoned for years, according to brokers.
然而，在纽约市的房地产规章和风云变幻的市场力量的作用下，外交大戏依然为数不少。比方说，在东69街34号，艺术品交易商理查德·L·费根(Richard L. Feigen)租下一套大房子。它曾为伊朗政府所有，据加菲尔德说，目前这套房子正由美国国务院的外交机关办公室(Office of Foreign Missions)赞助，加菲尔德几年前将它租给了费根。此外，还有经纪人说，东80街124号有一座40英尺（约合12米）宽的豪宅，曾经属于伊拉克政府，目前也已弃置多年。
As for the apartment at 730 Park Avenue that once belonged to the former Yugoslavia, if it were sold today in its current condition it would be worth $15 million to $20 million, and likely twice that amount if it were renovated, said Tristan Harper, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman Real Estate. Mr. Harper, who was born in the former Yugoslavia, visited the apartment several times when it was still in use in the early 1990s, and has been back recently to witness its deterioration. “It was a gorgeous place — very grand — and even though it hasn’t been maintained, you can still see how glamorous it was,” he said.
至于地处公园大道730号的那套曾属于南斯拉夫的公寓，如果按照现在的状态卖出，其价值为1500万到2000万美元（约合人民币9343万到1.2亿元）。如果装修后出售，价值很可能会翻一倍，房地产公司Douglas Elliman Real Estate的助理经纪人特里斯坦·哈珀(Tristan Harper)如是说。哈珀出生于前南斯拉夫，20世纪90年代初，在那套公寓还没有被弃置之前，他曾去过几次。“那是一个迷人的地方——很壮观，虽然现在年久失修，但你依然能够看出它昔日的荣光。”他说。
For well-heeled co-ops that in the past welcomed a foreign government into their midst, many are more cautious. Foreign governments are protected by diplomatic immunity, which means that if they stop paying their maintenance, for example, a court may grant the co-op a monetary judgment. But unlike with a typical shareholder, the co-op cannot evict the government and sell the apartment to recoup its losses. Co-ops will often ask the government to waive its immunity, but in many cases they are unwilling to do so.
财力雄厚的合作公寓管委会曾经欢迎外交机关入驻，如今，许多管委会开始抱有警惕的态度。外国政府受到外交豁免权的保护。举个例子，假如他们停止支付维护费，法院可能会做出付费判决。但是与一般的股东不同，管委会不能驱逐外交机关、将公寓卖掉，以抵偿损失。他们往往会要求外国政府放弃这一豁免权。但在很多情况下，它们也不愿这么做。
“It raises very significant issues for a co-op or condominium,” said Eva C. Talel, a partner at the law firm Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. “Because of a combination of law and the lifestyle of diplomats, sometimes, and not so infrequently, it just doesn’t work.”
“对于合作公寓或共管公寓管委会来说，这会引起很大的问题，”律师事务所Stroock & Stroock & Lavan的合伙人伊娃·C·塔莱尔(Eva C. Talel)表示，“法律的原因、加上外交使节的生活习惯问题，会导致事情无法解决，这种情况时有发生，且并不少见。”
But it isn’t all bad news. The nation of Qatar has been bucking the trend and lavishing hundreds of millions of dollars on New York real estate. Earlier this year, it went into contract on an Upper East Side townhouse for $100 million, which would set a record for the city’s priciest commercial townhouse, and last year it bought the Ellen Biddle Shipman Residence at 21 Beekman Place for $34.45 million. In 2012, Qatar tried to buy two apartments formerly owned by the heiress Huguette Clark at 907 Fifth Avenue, but was reportedly rejected by the co-op board.
不过，并非所有消息都是坏消息。卡塔尔国正在扭转这一趋势，在纽约房地产中一掷千金。今年年初，该国出价1亿美元（约合人民币6亿元），签约买下了上东区的一座联排别墅，创下纽约市联排商品房的价格记录。去年，该国曾以3445万美元（约合人民币2亿元）的价格，在比克曼广场(Beekman Place)购买了艾伦·比德尔·希普曼的故居(Ellen Shipman Biddle Residence)。2012年，卡塔尔试图买下铜业大亨的女继承人休姬特‧克拉克(Huguette Clark)在第五大道907号的两处公寓，但是据报道，交易请求遭到了合作公寓管委会的拒绝。
While countries like Serbia and France are looking to give up their luxury properties for less glamorous quarters, countries like Qatar give me hope. It would be a sad commentary to see the many governments that are now ensconced in grand Upper East Side spaces all choosing to rent dowdy offices in Midtown and resorting to cramped condominiums elsewhere.
尽管塞尔维亚、法国等国正想办法转手它们的豪宅资产，以换成不太奢华的寓所，但是卡塔尔这样的国家让我看到了希望。许多外国政府如今驻扎在条件优越的上东城，如果它们都开始租赁中城区的破败办公室，或者涌向其它社区中拥挤不堪的共管公寓，那将是一幅多么令人悲戚的光景。