The New York Times staff photographer Tyler Hicks was nearby when gunmen opened fire at an upscale Nairobi mall, killing at least 39 people in one of the worst terrorist attacks in Kenya’s history. He was able to go inside the mall as the attack unfolded.
一些枪手在内罗毕一家高档购物中心开火，造成至少39人死亡，这是肯尼亚历史上最严重的恐怖袭击事件之一。事发当时，《纽约时报》的摄影记者泰勒·希克斯(Tyler Hicks)就在附近。在袭击事件爆发期间，他设法进入了这家商场。
His conversation with James Estrin has been edited.
以下是他与詹姆斯·埃斯特林(James Estrin)的交谈，内容经过编辑。 
Q. What happened? How were you so close?
问：当时发生了什么？你怎么会离现场那么近？
A. I was at a framing shop in an adjacent mall picking up some photographs that had been given to me as gifts by photojournalists who attended my wedding. I was very close. I didn’t have all of my equipment, just had a small camera that I always have with me in case something happens.
答：我当时在相邻商场的一个相框店里取照片，那是参加我婚礼的摄影记者们送的礼物。我离事发现场非常近，当时我的摄影装备并不齐全，手边只有一个小相机。我总是带着它，以防万一有事发生。
I ran over to the mall and I was able to photograph until my wife [Nichole Sobecki], who is also a photojournalist and was at our house, was able to collect my Kevlar helmet and professional cameras before she came to cover the news herself.
我跑向那个商场，拍摄了一些照片，直到我妻子[妮可·索贝奇 (Nichole Sobecki) ] 送来我的克维拉防弹头盔和专业相机。她也是一名摄影记者，当时在家里，把装备给我后，她自己也对这个新闻进行了报道。
When I left the framing shop, I could see right away that there was something serious going on, because there were lots of people running away from the mall. I ran over there and within minutes I could see people who had been shot in the leg or stomach from what appeared to be small arms fire being helped by other civilians. This went on for about 30 minutes.
离开相框店的时候，我就发现出大事了，因为很多人从那家商场跑出来。我跑到了那里，没过几分钟，就看见有人腿部或者腹部中弹，似乎被是小型武器击中，其他平民正在帮助他们。这种情况持续了约30分钟。
The mall is Nairobi’s most high-end shopping center, completely up to Western standards, with movie theaters, nice cafes, supermarkets and a casino. Pretty much anything you need. I’ve been there, so I knew the layout inside.
这家商场是内罗毕最高档的购物中心，完全符合西方的标准，有电影院，不错的咖啡馆、超市和一个赌场，基本上应有尽有。我去过那里，所以知道里面的布局。
From the beginning I wanted to get with some security forces inside the mall.
从一开始，我就希望能和安保部队一同进入那里。
We managed to find an entrance where people who were hiding inside the mall were coming out. We ran into that service entrance and we hooked up with some police who let us stay with them as they did security sweeps clearing different stores — very much like what you see when the military enters a village. Shop to shop and aisle to aisle, looking for the shooters who were still inside.
我们找到了一个供服务人员使用的出入口，当时躲在商场里的人正从这里跑出来，我们跑了进去，搭上了一些警察，他们同意带我们一起走。这些警察正在对每家店铺进行安全搜查 ，情景跟军队进入村庄非常相似。他们一家店铺一家店铺，一条过道一条过道地搜索当时还在商场里的枪手。
I had a clear view in there. I could see that there were multiple bodies lying dead in the mall, some lying together just next to where they were having lunch at a cafe. It seemed everywhere you turned there was another body.
当时我的视野很清楚，可以看到商场里倒着多具尸体，有些倒在一起，是在咖啡店里吃午餐的时候被击中的。不论你看向哪里，尸体似乎无所不在。
Military forces didn’t know where the militants were, so they continued to sweep through looking for them. Of course, there was the concern of I.E.D.’s or that they would throw a grenade or shoot. In the shopping mall, there was an endless amount of places that they could hide or potentially attack from.
军警不知道枪手的位置，所以他们继续挨门挨户地搜查。当然，我们担心枪手有自制炸弹，担心他们会扔手榴弹或开枪。在这个购物中心里，有无数地方可以供他们藏身或发起攻击。
Q. How long were you there?
问：你在哪里待了多久？
A. I was around the mall for the better part of the day. I was inside the mall for about two hours.
答：我在这家商城周围待了大半天的时间，在商场里面待了两小时左右。 
Q. What exactly was unfolding in front of you during those two hours?
问：在这两个小时里，你究竟看到发生了什么事？
A. We were with one group of police for most of the time. There were moments when I branched out. If you had to stop, and they continued, you would be in the mall, completely alone, without anyone knowing where these gunmen were. So it was important to make the commitment to stay with them. They moved from place to place, sometimes running, sometimes having to clear areas around corners, where they couldn’t see around the corner, and it looked very much like a military operation inside.
答：大部分时间里，我们都跟一队警察在一起。有些时候我也走到附近看看，如果你停下来，而他们继续前进，你就会彻底落单，没有人知道这些枪手在哪里。所以重要的是，你要确保跟他们待在一起，他们从一个地方移动到另一个地方，有时会跑动，有时候看不到拐角处的情况，他们就必须清除拐角周围的潜在危险，这非常像是在室内进行军事行动。
They had two objectives as far as I could see: one was to try to find the militants. And two, to get civilians out of the mall. There were many civilians who had barricaded themselves inside shops, inside the movie theater, inside restaurants, inside a beauty salon — it seemed like everywhere you went, there were more people who just appeared out of the woodwork.
我觉得他们有两个目标：一是设法找到武装分子，二是让平民撤离。有很多平民藏在商店、电影院、餐厅、美容院里，把门堵上——好像你无论到哪里，都有很多人从藏身处冒出来。
Q. You didn’t see any of the shooters, either dead or alive?
问：你没有看到任何枪手，无论死活？
A. No, I didn’t see any of the militants. I only saw the casualties and the fatalities. I estimate I saw between 10 and 12 people who had been killed.
答：没有，我没有看到任何武装分子，只看到了伤者和死者。我大概看到了10至12名死者。
Q. What are you thinking at this point? Is covering a terrorist attack where you live different than covering war in Afghanistan or Syria?
问：现在你怎么想？报道你居住的地方发生的恐怖袭击，跟在阿富汗或叙利亚报道战况有什么不同吗？
A. When something of this magnitude happens, it’s just as dangerous, if not more dangerous than being in Afghanistan or any other number of countries where there are wars going on. You have to think about where you’re standing, you have to think about where you have cover, the type of obstacles you can place between you and potential gunmen. A lot of the same rules apply when they’re sweeping through a building like that.
答：跟在阿富汗或任何其他正在打仗的国家相比，这种规模的事件即使不算更危险，危险程度也与那不相上下。你必须考虑你站的位置，考虑在哪里有掩体，有哪些障碍可以挡在自己和可能出现的枪手之间。而当他们正在那样的一栋楼里游走的时候，很多规则也同样适用。
This is just plain and simple murder of unarmed civilians. It’s not a war. These militants went into the mall and executed people: women and children, anyone who got in their path. That’s not typical of war.
这是简单粗暴的谋杀，针对的是手无寸铁的平民。这不是战争。枪手走进商场，杀害平民，杀害他们一路上遇到的任何人，连妇女儿童也不放过。这不是典型的战争。