In a city crowded with venerable towers and gleaming new skyscrapers, builders and developers are trying to squeeze more money out of their real estate by taking advantage of one of their last available spaces: their rooftops.
在一座挤满了古老塔楼和闪亮的新摩天大厦的城市中，建筑商和开发商正试图通过利用他们最后一个可用的空间，来从其房地产中榨取出更多的金钱，那就是楼顶。
Cocktail lounges and restaurants have popped up on the tops of hotels, office towers and residential buildings, offering views of the city’s skyline, its bridges and waterfront, as well as $20 mixed drinks.
鸡尾酒酒吧和餐馆纷纷出现在酒店、写字楼和住宅楼的顶部，让人们可以一览城市的天际线、桥梁和水滨景观，同时提供20美元一杯的鸡尾酒。
Even higher are observatories in the tallest skyscrapers, which are tapping into the city’s soaring tourism market. The city’s highest perch officially opened on Friday, when five elevators started whisking visitors 1,268 feet up to the 102nd floor of 1 World Trade Center — in 48 seconds — for “helicopter views” of Manhattan and beyond.
还要更高的，是那些最高的摩天大楼上的观景台，它们已经进入了纽约飞速增长的旅游市场。本市最高的观景台于上周五正式开业，那里的五座电梯仅用时48秒，就带着游客飞快地抵达世界贸易中心一号大楼(1 World Trade Center)高达1268英尺（约合390米）的102楼，体验从“直升机上”俯瞰曼哈顿和更远的地方。
This comes as no surprise to the current generation of high-altitude revelers. While the appetite for rooftop play areas remains voracious, real estate experts say the same is not true for the highest of spots: When it comes to observatories, they say, the city may be nearing a view glut.
这对当前的高空狂欢一代来说没有什么好奇怪的。虽然对屋顶游乐区的期待还未得到完全满足，但房地产专家说，对于最高的一些景点，情况有所不同：当谈到观景台时，他们说，这座城市的景点可能快要有些过剩。
“You could end up with too many observatories and not enough people,” said Joseph Reagan, a senior real estate analyst.
“最终你可能建造了太多的观景台，却发现没有足够的人来看，”资深房地产分析师约瑟夫·里根 (Joseph Reagan)说道。
Just take a look.
我们来看一看。
The new trade center observatory will compete for visitors with two heavily trafficked viewing sites: Top of the Rock, at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, and the Empire State Building, the gold standard of observation decks with 4.3 million visitors last year.
新的世贸中心观景台将与两个繁忙的观赏地点争夺游客：位于洛克菲勒广场30号的峭石之巅(Top of the Rock)，以及帝国大厦。后者是纽约最热门的观景台，去年的接待量为430万人次。
And more are on the way. On the Far West Side of Manhattan, one developer has designed a two-story, outdoor observation deck-bar-restaurant that will be cantilevered over the Time Warner Building, 1,100 feet above Hudson Yards, at 33rd Street and 10th Avenue.
而更多的观景台正在建设中。在曼哈顿最西边，一家开发商设计了一座两层楼高的户外观景台、酒吧、餐厅综合设施， 位于第33街和10大道，凸悬于时代华纳大厦，比哈德逊庭院高出1100英尺。
Next to Grand Central Terminal on East 42nd Street, another developer has planned an observatory at the top of One Vanderbilt, a proposed 63-story office tower.
在东42街靠近中央车站的地方，另一家开发商已在范德比尔特1号大厦(One Vanderbilt)顶层规划了一个观景台，这是一座拟建的63层办公楼。
Underscoring how popular the sky-high trend has become, Zagat, the restaurant guide, recently issued its list of the “10 Hot Rooftop Scenes in NYC.”
餐厅指南《Zagat》日前发布了它的“纽约十大屋顶景点”名单，从而凸显出高空趋势已变得多么流行。
“It’s the view,” said Alison Calegari, a digital marketing specialist, as she sipped a glass of wine on a recent weekday at the Skylark, a cocktail lounge on the roof of an otherwise nondescript building on West 39th Street in the Fashion District. “It’s summertime. I want to see the light, not darkness. One World Trade Center is more touristy; this is more authentic.”
“来这里就为了看风景，”数字营销专员艾莉森·卡勒伽利(Alison Calegari)说。不久前的一个工作日，她正在时尚区西39街一栋不起眼的建筑的屋顶鸡尾酒吧云雀(Skylark)中，轻啜着一杯酒。“现在是夏季。我想要看见灯火，而不是黑暗。世界贸易中心一号楼的旅游味儿更浓，而这里更像纽约。”
To get to the Skylark, Ms. Calegari entered a barely noticeable door on a side street, rode up 30 stories in a freight elevator and climbed two flights of narrow stairs, as if entering a speakeasy. There she found an outdoor deck with a six-foot glass wall that puts patrons practically face to face with the surrounding buildings.
要前往云雀酒吧，卡勒伽利需要从旁边一条小巷中走进一个毫不起眼的入口，乘坐货运电梯上30层，再爬上两段狭窄的楼梯，就像是进入一个地下酒吧。在那里她找到了一个有六英尺玻璃墙的户外露台，使顾客几乎与周围建筑面对面了。
Nearby, in Times Square, the Knickerbocker Hotel is opening a rooftop space that will feature dishes from the celebrity chef Charlie Palmer as well as a cigar lounge.
附近，在时报广场，纽约人酒店(Knickerbocker Hotel)正准备开放屋顶空间，将会提供名厨查利·帕尔默(Charlie Palmer)的菜品以及一间雪茄休息室。
In Lower Manhattan, a developer is reopening a boutique-size, glass-enclosed observatory at the top of a 66-story tower at 70 Pine Street as part of a four-story restaurant and bar.
在曼哈顿下城，一家开发商准备在派恩街70号的66层高楼的顶端重新开设一座玻璃材质的小型封闭式观景台，并把它与一间四层楼的餐厅与酒吧融合在一起。
Still, heights are not for everybody.
然而，登高望远并非每个人的心头好。
Only a fraction — 13 percent — of the 56.4 million tourists who poured into New York City last year visited the top of the Empire State Building or the Top of the Rock. And the strengthening dollar could put a crimp in foreign tourism, the bread and butter of observatories.
去年涌入纽约市的5640万游客中，登上帝国大厦顶部或是到峭石之巅一游的人数仅13%。此外，美元走强的态势也许会对外国游客的规模造成一定的打压，而他们构成了游览观景台的主力军。
“There will certainly be some growing pains in the next year or two as the market goes from two to three observatories, especially since the novelty factor of 1 World Trade Center is likely to attract a lot of visitors initially,” said Mr. Reagan, who works for Green Street Advisors, a real estate research firm.
“随着观景台市场从两三座开始迅速飙升，未来一两年里肯定会出现一些成长的阵痛。尤其是，世贸中心一号楼的新奇感很可能会在一开始的时候吸走大批游客，”在房地产调研公司绿街顾问(Green Street Advisors)服务的里根说。
One developer, Gary Barnett, has already scrapped plans to put an observatory atop the slender 1,775-foot tall Nordstrom Tower he is building on West 57th Street, saying he would rather sell condominiums than sacrifice valuable square footage. “You need express elevators, staircases,” Mr. Barnett said. “It costs you square footage on every floor.”
开发商加里·巴尼特(Gary Barnett)正在西57街修建1775英尺高的诺德斯特龙大厦(Nordstrom Tower)。他已经放弃了在这栋纤长的高楼顶部开设一处观景台的计划，给出的理由是，与其牺牲宝贵的建筑面积，不如拿来建共管公寓出售。“你得修好几座高速直梯、楼梯什么的，”巴尼特说。“这会蚕食每一层的建筑面积。”
The renewed interest in observation decks has been spurred in large part by the enormous success of the Empire State Building, which has an outdoor deck on the 86th floor and an indoor deck on the 102nd floor.
在很大程度上，开发商对观景台重新燃起的兴趣源自帝国大厦的巨大成功。那里拥有室外和室内观景平台各一座，分别位于86层和102层。
The number of visitors at the Empire State, one of the most recognizable buildings in the world, has risen year after year, with annual revenues more than doubling to $111.5 million last year, from $40 million in 2004. The deck, whose profit last year was $82.5 million, now accounts for 40 percent of the building’s entire revenue.
帝国大厦是世界上最知名的建筑之一，这里的游客人数每年都在增长，年营收从 2004 年的4000万美元（约合2.5亿元人民币）达到了去年的1.115亿美元，增长了两倍多。其露台去年的利润为8250万美元，目前占该建筑物总收入的40%。
Despite the appeal, the use of rooftops for dining, drinking and entertainment is not a new development. Before air-conditioning, rooftops made public assembly possible in the middle of the summer. The Astor Hotel, which opened in Times Square in 1904, had a vast rooftop garden with pergolas, tempiettos, triumphal arches, fountains, arcades and a bandshell.
利用屋顶用餐、饮酒和娱乐颇具吸引力，但这不是一种新现象。在有空调之前，屋顶让盛夏时的公共集会成为可能。于1904年在时报广场开业的阿斯特酒店(Astor Hotel)设有一个巨大的屋顶花园，内有棚架、礼拜堂、凯旋拱门、喷泉、回廊和露天舞台。
Over time, however, they fell out of favor and the roofs of hotels and office buildings were more likely to be packed with air-conditioners, fans and power generators.
然而随着时间的推移，它们渐渐失宠，酒店和写字楼的屋顶更多地被空调、风扇和发电机占据。
But now even rooftops of small buildings — at least by New York City standards — have become fashionable gathering spots. One of the first, which opened several years ago, was a lavish outdoor garden and indoor bar on the rooftop of the 20-story office building at 230 Fifth Avenue. It once boasted a $1,200 margarita, the Frozen Fifth Avenue, a mixture of expensive spirits served in a specially designed glass.
不过，即使是小建筑物——至少按照纽约市的标准——的屋顶，如今也在成为一种时尚的聚会场所。几年前，位于第五大道230号的20层办公楼屋顶上开设了一座豪华户外花园加室内酒吧，成为引领这股风潮的首批场所之一。它曾经主打一种售价1200美元的玛格丽塔，名为“冰冻第五大道”(Frozen Fifth Avenue)，用一款特别设计的玻璃杯盛放昂贵的混合烈酒。
Today, there are chic rooftop scenes at the Gansevoort, the citizenM and the Jane hotels, among many others. At 75 Rockefeller Plaza, RXR Realty is adding multiple outdoor decks to the 33-story office building, not to attract paying customers but to lure new tenants.
今天，甘斯沃尔特酒店(Gansevoort)、世民酒店(citizenM) 和简酒店(Jane)等众多建筑开辟了别致的屋顶空间。在洛克菲勒广场75号，RXR房地产公司(RXR Realty)正在往这座33层办公楼上增建多个户外露台。此举是为了吸引新租户，而非让客人来消费。
“It has nothing to do with height, although views make them more special,” said Richard J. DeMarco, a partner at the design firm Montroy Andersen DeMarco, which worked on the World Trade Center observatory as well as a roof deck at 160 Fifth Avenue, a 10-story office building. “A rooftop space puts a commercial building on the map.”
“这和高度没有任何关系，虽然从高处看到的风景使它们更加特别，”蒙鲁瓦、安德森与德马科设计事务所(Montroy Andersen DeMarco)的合伙人理查德·J·德马科(Richard J. DeMarco)说道。这家公司设计了世界贸易中心观景台和第五大道160号的那座10层写字楼的屋顶露台。“屋顶空间会让它所在的商业建筑进入人们的视野。”
Adam Rose, a developer, is converting 70 Pine Street, an Art Deco building near the New York Stock Exchange, into what promise to be the most expensive rental apartments in Lower Manhattan, with a restaurant and bars on floors 62, 63, 64 and 66 to be managed by the team behind the Spotted Pig, the celebrated West Village restaurant.
开发商亚当·罗斯(Adam Rose)正在改建派恩街70号，这是座靠近纽约证券交易所，具有装饰艺术风格的建筑。他准备将其打造成曼哈顿下城最昂贵的租赁公寓。62、63、64和66层将开设一间餐厅和多个酒吧，由大名鼎鼎的西村餐厅花斑猪(Spotted Pig)背后的团队进行管理。
He is restoring the observatory, where diners will have unobstructed views and the ability to walk out onto the narrow terraces. Mr. Rose is spending $5 million to create an amenity for tenants and a downtown nightspot.
他正在重新修建屋顶的观景台，让食客可以一览无余地观赏风景并亲自走上狭窄的露台。罗斯准备花费500万美元，为租户创造便利的同时，为曼哈顿下城增添夜生活的一个好去处。
“This is a major element of making 70 Pine Street special,” Mr. Rose said. “It adds value to everything below it.”
“这是使派恩街70号与众不同的一个主要元素，”罗斯说。“它为楼下的一切增加了价值。”
Mr. Rose’s project is not designed to compete with the big observatories and will never attract millions of tourists. But like Top of the Rock, the outdoor terraces on the 66th floor of 70 Pine will offer visitors a sense of being among the city’s skyscrapers, rather than looking down on other buildings from the clouds.
罗斯的项目不是为了同那些大观景台竞争，也绝不会吸引数百万的游客。不过，像峭石之巅一样，派恩街70号第66层楼的户外露台会为访客提供一种置身于纽约摩天大楼之中的感觉，而不是从云端向下看。
For now, 1 World Trade Center has all the latest technology, a steak house and panoramic views of New York City, the harbor, Long Island, Bear Mountain and western New Jersey. Legends, the company that runs the observatory, spent nearly $80 million, according to executives from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, up from its original $62.5 million budget.
目前，世贸中心一号楼拥有各种最新奇的技术，一家牛排馆，并能提供囊括纽约市、海港、长岛、熊山和新泽西西部的全景。纽约与新泽西港口事务管理局(Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)的高层官员表示，运营这座观景台的传奇公司(Legends)花了近8000万美元，而他们原先的预算是6250万美元。
Legends hopes to draw about 3.2 million visitors, or roughly a quarter of the tourists who made their way downtown last year to visit sites such as the National September 11 Memorial Museum, Wall Street, the Statue of Liberty and the South Street Seaport.
传奇公司希望每年吸引320万左右的游客。这个数字大概相当于去年来到下城游览国家9·11纪念与博物馆(National September 11 Memorial Museum)、华尔街、自由女神像和南街海港等景点的游客总人数的四分之一。
But David Checketts, chief executive of Legends, said he was not worried about the competition or whether New York has reached an observatory saturation point.
不过，传奇公司的首席执行官戴维·切基茨(David Checketts) 表示，他并不担心竞争问题，或者纽约的观景台是否已经达到了饱和点。
“I imagine the Empire State Building has upped its advertising budget,” he said. “It’s an elevator ride and a view. There’s Top of the Rock and there’ll be others. They’re kind of back in vogue. But I do think this one will be highly desirable, because we’re next to the September 11 Memorial, the museum and a resurgent downtown.”
“我猜帝国大厦增加了广告预算吧，”他说。 “这里面包含了电梯之旅和风景的组合。已经有了峭石之巅，以后还会有其他的，的确有种重新流行起来的感觉。但我认为我们这处地方是非常吸引人的，因为我们旁边就是9·11纪念与博物馆，还有正在复苏的下城。”