NEW YORK — The sidewalk outside the subway station in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, was crowded on Tuesday morning. Bill de Blasio bent his 6-foot-5 frame again and again to shake hands.
纽约——周二上午，布鲁克林区皇冠高地地铁站外的人行道上挤满了人。身高6英尺5英寸（约合1.96米）的比尔·德布拉西奥(Bill de Blasio)一次又一次地弯下腰来与众人握手。
The spot had been chosen with care. It was here, in 1991, that New York City’s deep racial divide had exploded into three days of violence when Mr. de Blasio had been a low-level aide to Mayor David N. Dinkins. Mr. de Blasio’s opponent this year, Joseph J. Lhota, had pointed to that dark episode as a reason not to vote for him, as a warning of the bad times that were likely to return if he were elected.
这个地点是精心挑选的结果。1991年，正是在这里，纽约市的深层种族分歧爆发，酿成了持续三天的暴乱。德布拉西奥当时是市长戴维·N·丁金斯(David N. Dinkins)的低层助理。在今年的市长选举中，他的对手约瑟夫·J·勒霍塔(Joseph J. Lhota)将这黑暗的一页说成不给他投票的理由，警告如果他当选，坏日子就很可能回来。
But there was no strife on Tuesday, no flying bottles. Just handshakes on the way to winning as Mr. de Blasio was welcomed as a hero and celebrity. “All I want to say is that I love you,” said a woman in jeans, a denim jacket and a paisley shawl.
不过，周二的时候，这里风平浪静，没出现乱飞的瓶子，只有迈向胜利的德布拉西奥在握手。他受到的欢迎与英雄和明星并无二致。“我只想说，我爱你，”身着牛仔上衣和裤子、戴佩斯利花纹披巾的一名女性说。
It was a note-perfect play in a campaign of them, summing up both his sharp political instincts and the changing feel of the city he wanted to run.
竞选中的这一招恰到好处，不仅展现了他敏锐的政治嗅觉，还显示出他希望管理的这座城市变化的氛围。
On Tuesday, Mr. de Blasio was elected to become the first Democratic mayor of New York City in 20 years. Few had initially predicted his victory except, perhaps, the candidate himself. In high school, he was known by a nickname, Senator Provolone, and his classmates sometimes hummed “Hail to the Chief” when he entered the room.
德布拉西奥于周二当选，成了20年来纽约市的首位民主党市长。或许除了他本人，没什么人一开始就预测获胜的会是他。高中的时候，他的绰号是“菠萝伏洛干酪参议员”(Senator Provolone)；同学们有时还会在他进门的时候哼《向统帅致敬》(Hail to the Chief)。
But throughout his life, Mr. de Blasio had come to delight in upsetting expectations.
但在德布拉西奥的一生中，他一向喜欢出人意料。
He overcame a troubled childhood and attended some of the country’s most prestigious universities. He married a black woman who once identified as a lesbian, Chirlane McCray, and created a proudly biracial home. He cut his teeth as a political operator but abandoned life as a strategist to make an audacious bid for public office himself.
他战胜了艰难的童年，去美国最好的几所大学求学。他娶了一度自称同性恋的黑人希尔兰·麦克雷(Chirlane McCray)为妻，组建了一个骄傲的双种族家庭。他以政治操盘手的身份起家，却放弃了策略师的生涯，大胆地亲自竞选公职。
Now, as Mr. de Blasio, 52, prepares to become chief executive of one of the world’s largest cities, he will have a far grander stage on which to test the decidedly liberal worldview that has been the hallmark of his career.
现在，52岁的德布拉西奥即将成为一座国际大都市的头领，拥有一座广阔得多的舞台，来检验他那坚定的自由主义世界观。而这种态度已经成为了其职业生涯的标志。
In 2001, Mr. de Blasio surprised even his close friends when he decided to run for the City Council seat representing Park Slope. After years as a strategist, he wanted to use his block-by-block political knowledge to further his own career.
2001年，他决定代表公园坡竞选市议员席位。这让他最亲密的友人也大吃一惊。担任多年的策略师后，他希望利用对每个社区政治的了解来推进自己的事业。
The early days of his Council campaign were sometimes difficult. On one door-to-door campaigning blitz, Mr. de Blasio slipped on the front steps of a brownstone and broke an ankle. (When he tried to dial an aide for help, he discovered that the phone did not work — his campaign had stopped paying the bill.) He spent the next several weeks on crutches and a surgical boot, still trudging up and down stairs, eventually eking out a win.
议会竞选的早期时有艰难。一次敲门竞选宣传活动中，德布拉西奥在一栋褐砂石建筑的前门台阶上滑倒，踝部骨折。（想要给助理打电话求助时，他发现电话不能用，因为竞选团队没付账。）接下来几周，他穿着矫正靴、拄着拐杖，继续吃力地上下台阶，最终勉强取胜。
As a councilman, Mr. de Blasio took an interest in the issues that would become familiar themes of his mayoral campaign: poverty, the role of parents in the school system and improving services to at-risk children.
做市议员的时候，德布拉西奥感兴趣的话题就是他竞选市长期间大家熟悉起来的那些主题：贫困、家长在学校系统中的作用，以及改进针对高危儿童的服务。
He eventually parlayed the job into citywide office: In 2009, he was elected to be the public advocate, a position designed to help constituents navigate the bureaucracy of city government.
后来，他离开这份工作，转而选择全市选举的职位：2009年，他当选了纽约市公共议政员。这一职位的作用是帮助选民监督市政府的各个机构与部门。
He kept a homey, lived-in office in the Municipal Building, complete with a turntable and Louis Armstrong records leaning against a lounge chair. Dog-eared copies of Kurt Vonnegut novels sit on his bookshelf. Granted a chauffeur by the city, he insisted on driving himself, often accelerating aggressively to beat yellow lights.
在市政大楼里，他的办公室舒适温馨，长沙发旁边放着一台唱机和路易·阿姆斯特朗(Louis Armstrong)的唱片，书架上摆着翻旧了的库尔特·冯内古特(Kurt Vonnegut)的小说。市里可以为他配一名司机，但他坚持自己开车，常常为了抢黄灯而猛踩油门。
Mr. de Blasio remade the office as a place for New Yorkers to be trained in the nuts and bolts of community organizing, so that they could rally around common concerns. But he also used the pulpit to raise his own profile, in preparation for a possible bid for mayor. In January, he announced his candidacy outside his three-story rowhouse in Park Slope, denouncing the city’s rising inequality and pledging to “leave no New Yorker behind.”
德布拉西奥将办公室改造成让纽约人熟悉社区组织基本知识的训练营，目的是让他们能够围绕共同关心的话题团结起来。不过，他同时也利用这一平台来提高自己的声誉，为可能的市长竞选做准备。今年1月，他在公园坡的自家三层联排住宅前宣布参选，谴责了纽约与日俱增的不平等现象，承诺“不让任何一个纽约人掉队”。
He spoke frequently about a “tale of two cities” and pledged to do more to expand education for the neediest residents. But it was his family that proved to be his campaign’s secret weapon.
他时常谈及“双城故事”，发誓尽更大的努力来为最有需求的居民扩大教育服务。然而，要是说到竞选的秘密武器，还是要算他的家庭。
As he sought to bring attention to his candidacy, he took pride in showing off his Brooklyn home, including the backyard garden, where the family grew tomatoes, and a poster hanging inside that declared “Art Against Apartheid ’84-’85.”
为了努力给自己的竞选带来关注，他骄傲地展示了在布鲁克林的家，包括一家人种西红柿的后院花园，以及里面张贴的一张海报，上书“艺术反对种族隔离 84-85”。
On Tuesday, as Mr. de Blasio campaigned in Brooklyn, the centrality of his family to his personal and political life was clear. His daughter, Chiara, who is a college student in California, traveled home to surprise her father. She had told him she would not be able to return because of exams.
德布拉西奥周二在布鲁克林竞选的时候，家庭在他个人及政治生涯里的中心作用显露无遗。他的女儿基娅拉(Chiara)在加利福尼亚州上大学，特意飞回来给父亲一个惊喜。她本来是说，由于要考试，没法回家。
“This is the greatest gift I could have on Election Day,” Mr. de Blasio told reporters. “I’m already floating on air because my daughter’s here with us.”
“这是我在选举日收到的最棒的礼物，”德布拉西奥告诉记者。“女儿和我们在一起，我乐得都飘起来了。”