The boxy yellow vehicle is a survivor. It won a competition to redesign New York City’s taxi. It endured a pothole-marred course in Arizona meant to replicate the city’s rugged streets. And it prevailed in a legal battle and overcame the election of a new mayor who had been a vocal opponent.
在一项重塑纽约出租车的比赛中，黄色箱式的车成为了优胜者。在亚利桑那州模拟纽约崎岖不平地面的跑道上，它挺了过来，并赢下一场法律诉讼也因而克服了来自纽约新市长——曾经公开的反对者——的阻力。
On Tuesday, the vehicle, known as the Taxi of Tomorrow, finally becomes the city’s yellow cab standard.
本周二，这种被称作“明日出租车”的交通工具正式成为纽约市黄色出租车的标准款。
The Nissan NV200, more minivan than muscle car, is a major makeover for the city taxi, which has evolved with memorable (the Checker) and not-so-memorable (the Crown Victoria) incarnations. 
尼桑NV200，与肌肉型车（高马力车）相比，更接近于迷你面包车，这也是该市出租者主要的改进点。纽约市出租车亦从之前令人记忆犹新的检查车（Checker car）和日渐淡忘的皇冠维多利亚演变至此。
After a decade of planning and debate over the taxi’s fate, most owners will now be required to switch to the Nissan model when they retire their cabs.
有关出租车未来的设想与讨论已有十年，从现在开始，绝大部分车主在更换出租车时，都将被要求转换成尼桑NV200型。
City officials hope the new look, from the sunroof to the cellphone-charging outlets, will give yellow cabs a boost at time when their dominance is threatened by Uber, the car service app. But whether the Taxi of Tomorrow will help yellow cabs retain their place in a fast-fracturing market is a question facing drivers, investors and customers.
城市官员希望这种配有天窗与手机充电设备的新车型能刺激黄色出租车的生意，以对抗优步——一种汽车服务软件——所带来的冲击。但是在一个日以分裂的市场，新车型能否巩固黄色出租车的地位，仍是摆在所有司机，顾客与投资者面前的问题。
A court ruling in June ended the legal dispute over the vehicle and allowed the Taxi and Limousine Commission to set the Sept. 1 start date. The administration of Michael R. Bloomberg had wanted a uniform taxi tailored to the city’s strenuous demands, but opponents argued the administration had exceeded its authority by trying to force drivers to buy a certain vehicle.
今年六月的一项法律裁决终结了针对该车型的争论，法院允许纽约出租车协会自九月一日起实行出租车的更新换代。其实早在纽约前市长布隆伯格的任期中，就提出以一种统一的出租车车型来满足纽约市繁重要求的愿景，但反对者争论道，试图强制司机购换指定车型的做法已超出行政部门的权力。
While some owners can still choose from a short list of hybrid and wheelchair-accessible vehicles, taxi officials said 80 percent of the city’s yellow cabs could eventually be NV200s.
尽管如今仍有一小部分采用混合燃料且轮椅便利型的车辆可供车主选择，出租车管理员表示该市八成的黄色出租车最终都将变成NV20O型。
Hundreds of the Nissan models are already roaming Manhattan’s streets, but they make up a small share — about 750 cabs — of the more than 13,000 yellow taxis. More are on the way; each year between 2,500 and 3,000 owners typically replace their taxis, city officials said.
目前约有750辆新型出租车驰骋在曼哈顿的街头，可相比于13,000辆黄色出租车的总量，这只是很小的份额。不过更多的即将上路，市官员称每年都有2500至3000名车主更换他们的出租车。
The vehicle has a “low-annoyance” horn and sliding doors — in a nod to traffic safety groups, along with more comfortable seats for drivers who spend long hours on the road.
这种新车型的特征有：鸣笛刺耳度的降低，交通安全组认可的滑动门以及更为舒适的驾驶椅。
Meera Joshi, the city’s taxi commissioner, said the timing of the rollout is great for the industry because there has recently been a stronger focus on customer service.
米拉.贾什是该市出租车协会的委员，她表示这次出租车的翻新是整个行业的一个契机，因为当下服务质量已愈发成为焦点。
“We get letters and feedback saying, ‘Wow, I took a trip, I looked up, and I saw the sky,’ ” Ms. Joshi said in an interview at her office in Lower Manhattan. “That’s the kind of characteristic that the taxi industry needs to compete.”
“我们收到的来信与反馈都表示‘哇，这就像一场旅行，我一抬头就能看见天空。’”，贾什在位于曼哈顿下城的办公室中接受采访时说道，“这就是出租车行业需要实现的品质。”
Since Uber entered the New York market in 2011, the value of taxi medallions has dropped. Some taxi drivers have decamped to Uber. And city officials have grappled with how to regulate new entrants in the car-for-hire industry. In July the city introduced — and then abandoned — a proposal to place a temporary cap on the number of Uber vehicles.
自优步2011年进入纽约市场起，出租车行业昔日的荣光已渐渐褪去，一些司机已弃逃至优步麾下。就如何管理汽车租赁行业中涌现的新成员一事，城市官员也一直在商讨解决办法。七月，纽约市出台了一项短期限制优步车辆数目的法案，但之后又撤消了。
Mayor Bill de Blasio has a complicated relationship with the Taxi of Tomorrow. As the city’s public advocate, he opposed the plan and criticized Nissan for doing business in Iran. In a Twitter message, he posted a photo of the planned taxi with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the former Iranian president, inside the vehicle. After becoming mayor, he negotiated a revised agreement with Nissan last year, prompted by the potential cost of ending a 10-year contract with the company.
市长白思豪同“明日出租车”的关系很微妙。当他还是纽约市的政府巡查员时，就公开反对这项计划，批评尼桑同伊朗的生意往来，并在推特上发布了一张伊朗前总统马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德坐在这种新车型中的照片。他接任市长后，于去年同尼桑就一项修正协议进行了协商，因为考虑到终止同尼桑的十年合同将带来的损失。
Given that history, it is not surprising that the city is approaching the rollout with little fanfare. City Hall is not planning any public events to mark the day, in contrast to the news conference Mr. Bloomberg held in 2011 to announce the new vehicle.
据以往经验来看，纽约市低调实施更新的行为并不罕见，市政厅也未筹备任何公众活动来纪念这一天。不同的是，在2011年，布隆伯格市长为介绍此车型而举行了一场新闻发布会。
Wiley Norvell, a spokesman for Mr. de Blasio, said New Yorkers have already been riding in the vehicle for years. “The cat is out of the bag,” Mr. Norvell said.
怀利.诺威尔，白思豪市长的新闻发言人称，纽约人其实早就开始乘坐这种车型了，“这是众所周知的，”诺威尔先生称。
Despite the publicity, many people have never heard of the vehicle or taken a ride in one. As Charles Cheung watched an NV200 taxi pass Union Square on a recent afternoon, he was not impressed.
尽管有媒体的宣传，许多人并没有听过或是坐过这种车型。最近的一个下午，当查尔斯.程目睹NV200型出租车穿过联合广场时，他并不感到惊喜。
“Oh my God, that’s so ugly,” he said.
“天哪，它可真难看，”他说。
Pointing to a more traditional taxi, Mr. Cheung, 22, of Forest Hills, Queens, added: “That’s the stereotypical image that comes to mind, and they’re ruining that. Who did this?”
二十二岁的程先生来自皇后区的森林岗，他指着一辆传统型出租车补充道，“这才是会跳入人们脑海中的出租车典型图像，而这一切正在遭到破坏，是谁干的？”
Sitting on a nearby bench, Giona Jefferson said she did not mind the vehicle’s “European vibe” and had enjoyed riding in the Taxi of Tomorrow a few times. She liked the extra legroom and the open feel of the sunroof, she said.
坐在邻近长椅上的齐欧娜.杰弗逊则表示她并不介意新车型的欧洲范，而且已有几次愉快的乘车经历。她表示自己喜欢新增的腿部空间以及天窗所带来的开阔视角。
“The overall ambience of your commute is happier,” said Ms. Jefferson, 27, of Crown Heights, Brooklyn. “You’re not cramped in a little small raggedy Town Car-style of cab.”
“上下班往返的气氛更加愉快，”二十七岁的杰弗逊说道，她住在布鲁克林的皇后高地，“你不再像在小而破的乡镇型出租车中那样束手束脚。”
As Mike Merrill waited in the park to meet his wife, he said he could use the vehicle’s phone-charging outlet because his iPhone and iPad were almost dead. But Mr. Merrill, 50, of Park Slope, Brooklyn, is among the hordes of New Yorkers who have left yellow taxis for Uber.
当麦克.梅里尔在公园里等他太太时，他说自己会使用新型车的充电设备，因为他的iphone和ipad几乎没电了。五十岁的梅里尔家住布鲁克林派克坡，他其实是投奔优步的大群纽约人之一。
“I don’t know if it would make me switch over from Uber,” he said of the NV200’s features, “but I like legroom. I do feel kind of trapped in the older taxis.”
“我不清楚新车型能否让我回归，”他谈及NV200型时说道，“可我喜欢扩大的腿部空间，在老式出租车里，我确实感觉被困住了。”
As for taxi drivers, they are still getting used to the vehicle, which has a list price of $29,900. Waldir Sousa said he switched to an NV200 from a Crown Victoria last year. Some passengers have complained — tall people hit their heads on the roof, while older people strain to step up into the vehicle — but over all he likes his new taxi. The ergonomic seat for drivers has improved his shifts, he said.
对出租车司机而言，他们仍在努力适应这种标价29,900美金的新车型。瓦尔迪尔.索萨说自己去年刚把皇冠维多利亚换成NV200型。已有一些乘客向他抱怨道，高个子容易碰头，老人爬上这种车很费劲。但总的说来，他喜欢这辆新车，人体工程学设计的座椅改善了他的轮班舒适度。
“It is much better than the Crown Victoria because I have a lower-back problem,” said Mr. Sousa, 64, of Flushing, Queens.
“新车型比之前的皇冠维多利亚好多了，主要是我的下腰那块有毛病。”六十四岁的索萨说道，他住在皇后区的法拉盛。
Another driver, Mohabatpal Singh, who has a wheelchair-accessible version of the NV200, sent a letter to the taxi commission this year criticizing the vehicle. The ramp is heavy and its weight has worn down the tires, he said.
另一名司机，莫哈巴普.辛格则拥有一辆轮椅便利型的NV200，他给出租车委员会写了一封投诉信，批评这种新车型。“活动梯太重，它都快压坏轮胎了。”他说。
“The car gives me a hard time,” Mr. Singh, 45, of Bellerose, Queens, said on a recent afternoon as he examined the tires, adding that he would warn other drivers not to buy it.
“这种车让我日子不好过，”四十五岁的辛格来自皇后区的贝娄思，他在检查轮胎时说道，补充说他会提醒其他司机不要买它。
Only about two dozen wheelchair-accessible NV200s currently serve as taxis, city officials said. But that number is expected to grow in the years ahead as the city moves toward its goal of making 50 percent of the taxi fleet wheelchair accessible by 2020.
目前仅有二十四辆轮椅便利型的NV200在运行，城市官员称。但随着纽约市逐步实现2020年半数出租车都带活动梯的目标时，这类车的数量定会上升。
Bhairavi Desai, the executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, said drivers mostly like the design of the NV200.
柏瑞.德赛——纽约出租车工会执行长说大多数司机都喜欢NV200的设计。
“The real test of time will not be just the customer satisfaction,” she said, “but it will be more about how these cars will stand the test of durability.”
“时间将检验的不仅是顾客的满意度，”她说，“更是这些车的经久耐抗性。”