An earnest, middle-aged woman walked into Michael Chu’s small travel agency in Flushing, Queens, clutching a folder bulging with documents, and made a beeline for Mr. Chu’s desk at the far end of the office. She had not come to buy a plane ticket. Rather, she was seeking justice in a dispute with the management of her co-op apartment building and she needed Mr. Chu’s help.
一位神情严肃的中年女子，手拿鼓鼓囊囊、塞满文件的文件夹，走进朱立创位于皇后区法拉盛的小旅行社，径直走向办公室最里面朱立创的办公桌。她不是来买飞机票的。确切点儿说，与所在联建公寓的管理方发生了争执的她，此行的目的是寻求正义。她需要朱立创的帮助。
Not long afterward, another woman walked in; she was carrying her 8-month-old boy and a stack of photographs showing what she said were leaks and mold that her landlord was refusing to remedy. She, too, needed Mr. Chu’s help.
不久，又有一名女子走了进来。她抱着8个月大的儿子，还带来了一摞照片，照的是她所说的房东拒绝修缮的漏水、发霉之处。她也需要朱立创的帮助。
Over the past decade, Mr. Chu, 60, a Taiwanese immigrant, has become a linchpin of Flushing’s complex, protean Chinese diaspora, helping newly arrived Chinese immigrants find their footing.
朱立创今年60岁，是一位来自台湾的移民，在过去十年间，他逐渐成了法拉盛地区复杂多样的华裔群体中的关键人物。他会帮助刚到的华人移民在本地落脚。
While fixers are not uncommon in immigrant diasporas everywhere — arranging accommodation, jobs and legal help for newcomers — Mr. Chu, who has lived in New York City since 1983, has taken this archetypal role to another level.
掮客在任何移民社群里都很常见，他们会给新到者安排食宿和工作，还会提供法律援助。不过，自打1983年就住在纽约市的朱立创却把这种既有的角色提升到了新的高度。
In his third-floor office, above the hurly-burly of downtown Flushing, he receives a steady stream of people swindled by scurrilous salesmen and landlords, or feeling aggrieved by casinos or government agencies. He guides them through the labyrinthine bureaucracies of American government, showing them how to file complaints with law enforcement agencies and navigate small claims court.
在他位于三楼的办公室里，在法拉盛商业区的喧嚣之中，他要接待源源不断的来访者。这些人或是上了卑鄙的推销员和房东的当，或是对赌场乃至政府机构感到不满。他引导他们穿越迷宫般的美国官僚体制，教给他们如何向执法部门提起投诉，以及在小额索赔法庭上如何行事。
For the most stubborn cases, he leverages the tools of civic activism, including demonstrations, pickets and news conferences.
碰到最为棘手的个案，他会动用公民运动的工具，包括示威、抗议以及召开新闻发布会。
“You’re not guaranteed to win,” said Mr. Chu, who is short and soft-spoken, with neatly parted hair and a fondness for penny loafers and polo shirts. “But if you don’t fight, you lose always.”
“你不能保证一定会赢，”朱立创说，“但你要是不去抗争，就一定会输。”身材矮小、语调柔和的朱立创梳着整齐的分头，爱穿休闲鞋和Polo衫。
One wall of his office is covered in press clippings, photographs and other artifacts from cases in which he has played a pivotal role: a vertical scrapbook of his activism. There is no unclaimed space, so he tapes the new articles over old ones in sedimentary layers.
他办公室里的一面墙壁上贴满了简报、照片以及其他一些材料，都和他经手过的，且在其中发挥过关键性作用的个案有关，这是一本展现他行动主义精神的垂直剪贴簿。墙面没有任何空隙，于是他就一层摞一层地把新文章贴在旧文章上。
Reporters from the Chinese-language media like to hang out in his office, waiting for a story to walk through the door. “The press like to come,” he said, gesturing to the spare desks where the reporters set up camp. “I got food, I got coffee, I got bananas, I got Internet access — and a lot of news!”
一些来自中文媒体的记者喜欢在他的办公室里晃悠，等待有故事的人上门。“媒体喜欢上这儿来，”说这话时，他指了指备用的办公桌，那是记者们安营扎寨的地方。“我这儿有食物、咖啡、香蕉、网络接口——还有大把的新闻！”
Among the many cases he has handled, he aided a group of food stall operators to file a class-action lawsuit against a mall owner who, they claim, had defrauded them. He helped a nanny collect her wages after they were illegally withheld by her employer for more than a year. He organized a lobby among residents to block the opening of a waste transfer center near Flushing.
他处理过许多问题。比如帮助一群声称受到某商场老板欺骗的大排档经营者，协助他们向那个老板提起了集体诉讼；帮助一个保姆要回了被其雇主非法扣留了一年多的工资；还组织当地居民成立了游说团，设法阻止法拉盛附近的一家废品运转中心开业。
The office also serves as the headquarters for various social and political groups that he runs, including an umbrella organization for Chinese-American associations and a citizens’ patrol he created three years ago. Called the Flushing Neighborhood Watch, the patrol now includes more than 1,400 members. Wearing beige vests and armed with whistles, about a dozen volunteers walk the streets of Flushing every night reporting suspicious activity to the police.
他的办公室还是他所管理的各种社会和政治团体的总部，其中包括中美联合会的一个附属机构，以及他三年前组建的一支公民巡逻队。这支巡逻队名为法拉盛社区街头守望互助队(Flushing Neighborhood Watch)，目前拥有1400多名成员。每天晚上，都会有十多个身穿米色背心、佩带着哨子的志愿者走在法拉盛街头，向警方报告任何可疑的活动。
The honorific he is most proud of is the one associated with the neighborhood watch: team leader. Like a coach, he always wears a whistle; he has several lanyards, in different colors, so he can coordinate with each day’s outfit.
在社区街头守望互助队，他是队长，这是最让他引以为傲的一个头衔。他像个教练一样，总是佩带着一个哨子；他还有若干挂链，颜色各不相同，这样一来就能和每天的装束相搭配。
“I can tell you that if someone needs help, it’s only Chu Lichuang who has the heart to help them,” said Zhang Yingyun, 52, who runs a newsstand on Main Street in Flushing, using Mr. Chu’s Chinese name.
“我可以告诉你，假如有谁需要帮助，有善心会帮忙的只有朱立创，”现年52岁在法拉盛缅街经营一个报摊的张英云（Zhang Yingyun，音译）说。
On the same day that he received the women seeking to redress problems at their apartment buildings, and in between consultations with other immigrants, he developed a public-education campaign to teach new arrivals from China how to cross the street safely. It was a response to the death, a day earlier, of a 75-year-old Chinese woman killed in a hit-and-run.
接待上述就公寓问题寻求解决之道的两名妇女那天，他在为其他移民提供咨询的空档里，还制定了一份公共教育行动计划，旨在教给来自中国的新移民如何安全地过马路。此前一天发生了一起肇事逃逸案件，一位75岁的华裔妇女死于非命。这项行动便是对该事件的回应。
Mr. Chu seeks no payment for the problems he fixes; he lives off his travel business.
朱立创调停问题并不收取报酬；他以旅行社的业务为生。
“When they come in here crying and leave laughing, I feel great,” he continued. “They’re happy, I’m happy. It’s the highest moment.”
“他们哭着进门，笑着离开，每当这时候，我都感觉很棒，”他说。“他们高兴，我也高兴。这是最痛快的时刻。”