Central Park South has long been a reservoir of apartment-house construction, the expansive north views as attractive in the 1870s as they are now. The sweep of its history runs from the long-gone Bradley of 1877 to the modernist 240 Central Park South of 1940 — by way of the original Plaza Hotel of 1882 and the artistic Gainsborough of 1908. But as it turns out, it took awhile for developers to arrive at a full appreciation of Central Park South’s dazzling prospect.
中央公园南(Central Park South)一直是公寓式住宅建设的储藏库。这里辽阔的北部风光，早在19世纪70年代就很具吸引力了，现在依然如故。此地的历史沿革，从久已消失的1877年的布莱德利大厦(Bradley)，直到中央公园南240号这座1940年的现代派建筑——其间还经历过1882年最早的广场酒店(Plaza Hotel)，以及富有艺术气息的1908年的盖恩斯伯勒大楼(Gainsborough)。然而如今回头再看，开发商们确实是经过了很长一段时间，才完全认识到中央公园南的灿烂前景的。
There was wide anticipation that the completion of Central Park in the late 1860s would spur millionaires to build their mansions facing its green space. But millionaires can be balky, and in 1876 The Real Estate Record and Guide fumed that lots facing the park had been “a mere football for speculative ventures,” without any significant mansion construction.
人们曾普遍预期，中央公园在19世纪60年代晚期竣工后，将掀起百万富翁们兴建面向绿地的私家宅邸的热潮。但是百万富翁总可能有些顽固不化。于是在1876年，《房地产记录与指南》(The Real Estate Record and Guide)怒称，鉴于没有任何大型宅邸在此兴建，正对公园的那些地块不过就是“风险投资商们脚下的一只足球而已”。
However, The Record and Guide did suggest that frontage along the park was much better suited to apartment houses, which it also frequently promoted.
然而，《记录与指南》的确提出建议，该公园正面的空地更适合修建公寓楼，这一点在该指南中时有宣传。
A row-house developer, S. L. Bradley, took note of this and in 1877 built the Bradley, which appears to have been the first apartment house on what later came to be called Central Park South but was then plain old West 59th Street. The Record and Guide approved, calling the Bradley “an exemplar of the latest improvements.” These it had, but the building looked little different from a tenement house.
一位联排住宅开发商S·L·布莱德利(S. L. Bradley) 注意到了这则建议，并于1877年兴建了布莱德利大厦。这似乎就是后来被称为“中央公园南”的地界上的第一栋公寓楼了。而在当年，这里只是一条普通的老街：西59号大街。《记录与指南》对此项目表示了认可，称布莱德利大厦为“近期改善措施中的一个典范”。尽管如此，这栋楼看起来却与一栋廉租公寓楼没有什么不同。
A few other multiple dwellings began to sprout, among them the original Plaza, which in 1882 was to be “the largest and handsomest apartment house ever erected in this country,” according to The Record and Guide. That project, envisioned with 12 stories and 52 apartments, fell through, and the developers Phyfe and Campbell put up a nine-story confection of red brick, mansards and towers that could have been a Paris opera house. But the interior was never finished; the building was replaced by still other Plazas in 1890 and 1907.
另有一些多住户的楼宇开始陆续拔地而起，最早的广场酒店(Plaza)就是其中之一。据《记录和指南》于1882年时称，该楼将成为“国内最大也最漂亮的一栋公寓楼”。此项目的蓝图是一栋高达12层的大楼，有52套公寓，但最终没能实现。而开发商法伊夫和坎贝尔(Phyfe and Campbell)却建起了一栋九层高，有着红色的砖墙、复折式屋顶、几座耸立尖塔的精美建筑，如若建成，就会像一座巴黎歌剧院。但建筑内部一直没有完工；这栋楼还是分别在1890年和1907年被另外两座广场酒店取而代之了。
If the Bradley was dwarfed by the shell of the Plaza, it was made microscopic by Jose de Navarro’s vast eight-building complex at Seventh Avenue. Twice the size of the Dakota, the 13-story, eight-building Navarro Flats was an early co-op, with seven-bedroom duplexes and entertaining rooms measuring as much as 19 by 22 feet.
如果布莱德利大厦较之于高耸的广场酒店算是个侏儒，那么对比第七大道上何塞·德纳瓦罗(Jose de Navarro)那八栋大楼组成的规模宏大的综合建筑群，它简直就要用显微镜观看了。这栋由八栋大楼组成的13层纳瓦罗公寓(Navarro Flats)，大小堪比两座达科塔大厦(the Dakota)，是早期的合作式公寓(co-op)。包括共有七个卧室的复式住宅，以及19乘22英尺（约合5.6乘6.7米）的娱乐室。
But even a visionary has to get one brick on top of another, and construction dragged on into the 1880s. When creditors came after Mr. Navarro, he woke up from his dream. He lost the buildings, which were auctioned off, finished and rented out.
但即便再高瞻远瞩的人，也得从一砖一瓦开始，而这栋楼的建筑施工却拖到了19世纪80年代。当债权人找上纳瓦罗时，他才如梦方醒。他失去了这几栋大楼，它们被拍卖、竣工、然后被租了出去。
Despite its magnificent prospect, West 59th Street did not become Central Park South until 1896, by action of the city council. No fuss, lobbying, protest, endorsement, nothing. Very curious. Central Park West had been established about 1890.
尽管西59号大街的前景十分可观，可直到1896年市议会的法案出台，它才变成了“中央公园南”。没有抱怨，没有劝说，没有抗议，没有支持，什么都没有。非常奇怪。而“中央公园西”大约在1890年就已建成了。
In 1908 the magnificent 16-story Gainsborough Studios, at 222 Central Park South, joined the parade. The spectacular double-height studios on the front constitute the first recognition I have seen that the vista north to 110th Street was beginning to be considered special.
1908年，位于中央公园南222号的16层壮观高楼，盖恩斯伯勒公寓(Gainsborough Studios)，加入了这一行列。靠在前方的那些双层通高的华丽公寓，组成了我见过这里后形成的第一印象，那就是，110号大街北面的远景开始显得很特别了。
The year 1940 brought the stripped-down, modernist 240 Central Park South, built by the Mayer family, who are responsible for some of New York’s most thoughtful apartment-house architecture. The complex 28-story tower rises from lower sections like the basalt monolith Shiprock in New Mexico, massive but brilliantly detailed, and called “handsome and adroit” by the hard-to-please Lewis Mumford in The New Yorker.
1940年，中央公园南240号这栋简约的现代派建筑拔地而起。该建筑由迈耶家族(Mayer family)兴建，他们是纽约几栋最有想法的公寓式住宅建筑的责任方。这栋28层的综合型大厦从较低的楼层开始，就像新墨西哥州(New Mexico)的玄武岩船石山(Shiprock)一样，虽然体积巨大，但细节精妙。因此，就连最难取悦的刘易斯·芒福德(Lewis Mumford)也在《纽约客》(The New Yorker)上称它“帅气而灵巧”。
The developer Bernard Spitzer put up a lesser but no less unusual structure, the huge curved apartment house at 200 Central Park South, in 1963. The balconies, 225 feet wide, curve in from the corner, giving it a Barcelona feeling, and a tower in the rear has an uncanny resemblance to Frank Lloyd Wright’s Johnson Wax Tower.
1963年，开发商伯纳德·斯皮策(Bernard Spitzer)建造了一栋不算太高大、但论及不同寻常却是毫不逊色的建筑——中央公园南200号的巨大弧形公寓楼。那些阳台的跨度达到225英尺（约68米），自拐角处弯起，使其具有一种“巴塞罗那质感”(Barcelona feeling)；而后面的一座高楼则酷似弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)的约翰逊·瓦克斯大厦(Johnson Wax Tower)。
Mr. Spitzer, the father of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, told me that he had been worrying and worrying about the design of the building when he flung his pencil down on the drafting paper, and the famous curve was born.
开发商斯皮策是前任州长艾略特·斯皮策(Eliot Spitzer)的父亲。他告诉我说，他曾为这栋大楼的设计感到焦虑心烦，这时候他把铅笔一扔，落在草稿纸上，于是，那道著名的弧形问世了。
Down the block, at No. 230, the 17-story Southmoor House was built in 1938, and Ian Reisner, a resident, says it originally had 14 side-by-side duplexes, a touch unusual for the Depression. Southmoor House also had dressing rooms, but made a concession to the times with dining areas rather than rooms.
沿着该街区向下走到230号，是兴建于1938年的17层大厦Southmoor House。一位名叫伊恩·赖斯纳(Ian Reisner)的大厦居民说，这栋楼最初有14套肩并肩的复式公寓，这在大萧条时代显得有点异乎寻常。而Southmoor House本来还有更衣室，但时局所限，后来这一房间被改成了就餐区。
Over the last 20 years, Mr. Reisner has bought up half the apartments, combining many, and reclad the plain-Jane gray-brick front with cream and beige brick in a light glaze. Mr. Reisner, who is selling the renovated apartments, describes the old facade as “an unholy mess” and says the new one, which is in the Art Deco spirit of the old one, was “beyond worth it.”
近20年来，赖斯纳已经买下了整栋大楼里的半数公寓，将其中的许多套进行了合并，并把大楼前立面的普通灰砖换成了奶白色和米黄色的、有光泽的砖块。赖斯纳正在出售翻新过的公寓，他形容旧的立面“乱七八糟”，并称继承了旧立面装饰派艺术(Art Deco)精神的新立面则是“物超所值”。
He has sold the air rights to the lot next door, which is now vacant and owned by Vornado and Extell. They are locked in a legal battle over the future of the land, but to judge by their other projects, like Vornado’s fuzzy glass Lucida, at 85th and Lexington, and Extell’s super-tall One57, yet another new note will at some point be rung on Central Park South.
他还把空间所有权(air rights)卖给了旁边的地块。那块地目前处于空置状态，由Vornado（即Vornado Realty Trust房产信托公司）和Extell（即Extell Development房地产开发公司）持有。他们正忙着为这块土地未来的开发打官司，但从他们的其它项目来看——比如Vornado位于85号街与莱克星顿街(Lexington)之间的毛玻璃大厦Lucida，以及Extell的摩天大楼One57——未来某个时候，在中央公园以南，必将有另一种新的音符响起。