No open houses, no advertising and not a single online photo. And yet a $27 million town house on the Upper East Side and an $850,000 two-bedroom co-op in Lower Manhattan had no problem finding buyers in the past six months. Neither home was listed on the open market.
无需看房，不用广告，也没有一张在线照片，然而在过去六个月里，上东区(Upper East Side)的一栋2700万美元（约合人民币1.65亿元）的联排别墅，和曼哈顿下城区(Lower Manhattan)的一栋85万美元（约合人民币518万元）的双卧室合作公寓(co-op)却都不愁找不到买家，哪怕这两处房产都没被发布到公开市场中去。
Off-market deals, known as whisper listings, have long been the purview of the ultra-high-end market. Certain properties, often with price tags of $20 million or more, are shopped with a shroud of mystery among a small circle of well-connected agents instead of being put on the market for the world to see.
场外交易，又叫密语入市(whisper listings)，一直以来都属于超级高端市场的交易范围。某些特定的房产，即通常标价在2000万美元（约合人民币1.22亿元）或更贵的，仅在一小群关系密切的地产经纪人之间秘密交易，而不会被放到市面上，让全世界的人都看见。
Now this hush-hush approach has spread to many price points, including apartments below $1 million, as sellers realize the advantage they have, thanks to the lack of apartments available for sale in Manhattan.
而如今，这种“不可说”的销售方式已经扩展到了各级价位的房产，包括一些低于100万美元（约合人民币609万元）的公寓。因为卖家们逐渐意识到了自己拥有的优势，这都归因于曼哈顿待售公寓资源的稀缺。
“Sellers feel cocky. Sellers feel like they have the ball,” said Brian K. Lewis, an associate broker at Halstead Property who in the last six months has taken on seven whisper listings from clients who do not want to list their apartments, but are willing to entertain offers. These range from a two-bedroom for $1.295 million on the Upper West Side to a downtown loft for $12 million. “In an improving economy with no inventory, they have the asset people want.”
“卖家们都趾高气扬，觉得局面是由自己一手掌控的，”地产公司Halstead Property的助理经纪人布赖恩·K·刘易斯(Brian K. Lewis)说，他在过去六个月中接手了七个密语入市的房源，那些客户不想公开出售自己的公寓，却愿意考虑一下买家们的报价。房源的范围从上西区(Upper West Side)129.5万美元（约合人民币789万元）的双卧室公寓，到市中心1200万美元（约合人民币7312万元）的loft公寓不等。“在房屋存量为零，且行情持续看涨的经济形势下，他们拥有人们都想得到的资产。”
The number of apartments for sale in Manhattan at the end of August was at its lowest level in at least 13 years, according to Miller Samuel, the appraisal firm. The shortage has forced real estate agents to use aggressive tactics to drum up inventory, from trolling through expired listings in the hopes of reviving a dead deal to sending letters to owners in choice buildings to try to persuade them to sell.
根据评估机构Miller Samuel的数据，至8月底，曼哈顿待售公寓的数量已跌至至少13年来的最低水平。房源短缺已经促使房地产代理商们纷纷采取激进策略来提升房屋的存量，从翻找已过期的待售房产信息，以期让一笔没谈成的交易死而复生，到选中几栋大楼，给那里的房东发送邮件，劝说他们卖房。
No one knows how many properties are sold through a well-placed word, but off-market tactics appear to be on the rise in major markets where there is a scarcity of inventory, including San Francisco, Los Angeles and Miami.
没人知道，有多少房产仅凭措辞得当的一句话，就被卖了出去；但是这类场外交易的规模，在处于存量稀缺状态的几大市场当中看似都在上升，包括旧金山、洛杉矶和迈阿密。
“There’s more of it now than ever before,” said Shaun Osher, the chief executive of the brokerage firm CORE in New York, noting he has a database of about 50 apartments owned by people willing to sell given the right circumstances. “We as brokers know everything is always for sale at a price.”
“比之从前，现在有更多这样的交易，”纽约房地产经纪事务所CORE的总裁肖恩·奥舍(Shaun Osher)说，他还提及自己掌握着一个大约有50套公寓的数据库，这些公寓的拥有者愿意在适当的时机买房。“作为经纪人我们十分清楚，只要价格合适，什么都是可以出售的。”
Plenty of circumstances arise in which it makes sense to keep a listing out of the limelight, ranging from celebrities who don’t want to read about their property transactions in the tabloids to sellers who would rather not upset tenants prematurely. Some sellers hope to avoid the hassle involved in getting a property in shape to show. Others don’t want a lot of people traipsing through.
有各种各样的情况，令人们觉得有必要让自己的待售房产不要受到太大关注，比如有些名人不想在小报上读到自己房产交易的新闻；而有些卖家不愿意过早惊扰到房客；一些卖家希望能免去收拾房屋以供参观这类麻烦事；而另一些卖家则不想有太多人进进出出。
In March, for example, a five-bedroom town house at 12 East 76th Street on the Upper East Side sold for $27 million in a whisper sale without any wear and tear to the carpets. The place traded after just three viewings.
比如今年3月份，上东区东76街12号的一栋带有5间卧室的联排别墅通过密语销售，以2700万美元（约合人民币1.64亿元）的价格售出，没对地毯造成任何磨损和破坏。仅仅经过三次参观，这处房产就被卖掉了。
Yet most brokerage firms are of two minds about off-market deals. On the buy-side, they are largely for it. After all, quietly gaining access to an off-market listing means less competition in a market where open houses often provoke a stampede. Uncovering a whisper sale — by say, chatting up the doorman — for a client unable to find something on the open market ultimately benefits that buyer.
然而，对于场外交易，大多数中介公司总是分两面看的。若站在买家一边，他们会求之不得。毕竟，悄无声息地得知一处场外待售的房产，就意味着在一个经常发生争先恐后看房的市场里，能够面对更少的竞争。为一个不能在公开市场中找到合意房产的客户发现一次密语销售的机会——比如，通过跟看门人搭讪，最终会让该买家受益。
On the sell-side, brokerage firms tend to discourage whisper listings. For one, the secretive nature of whisper listings means some brokers will inevitably be shut out of a possible deal. Moreover, sellers hoping for a quick full-price sale through a whisper listing, they say, limit the buyer pool and thus, their chance of getting the highest possible price.
而若站在卖家一边，中介公司则并不推崇密语入市。原因之一在于，密语入市的私密性质就意味着，一些经纪人将不可避免地与某个潜在的交易无缘。此外，他们说，卖家们都希望通过密语入市能够迅速以全价售出房产，但这种方式限制了买家的数量，因而也就局限了他们可能得到的最高出价。
“The seller is always going to be best served by making sure the property is exposed to the widest possible marketplace,” said Frederick Peters, the president of Warburg Realty.
“卖家只有确保让房产尽量广为人知，才能始终获得最好的待遇，”华宝物业(Warburg Realty)的总裁弗雷德里克·彼得(Frederick Peter)说。
In addition, a whisper campaign can be a tall order. “It’s sort of like saying, achieve this great price and do all of this but don’t tell anybody about it,” said Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens.
此外，一场密语运作可能会是个高难度的任务。“这就像是在要求我们，要达到这样高的价格，工作也得面面俱到，但是不要把消息告诉任何人，”Brown Harris Stevens公司的总裁霍尔·F·威尔基(Hall F. Willkie)说道。
Finally, if discretion doesn’t move the merchandise, brokers can end up doing a lot of work for nothing.
最终，如果周密的运作没能推动销售的话，经纪人们也只能白忙活一场。
In a whisper campaign, the broker frequently has no signed contract with the seller, a scenario commonly referred to as a “pocket listing.” When there is a contract, it often mandates a quiet sale. If the broker finds a buyer, he or she often collects both sides of the commission.
在密语运作中，经纪人与卖家经常不签约，这种情形一般被称为“口袋房源”(pocket listing)。待到合同签订之时，通常也就是一笔秘密交易达成之日。如果一名经纪人找到了一位买家，他/她通常会召集委托双方见面。
Whatever the arrangement, brokers must go with what the client wants. “It’s really up to the seller in terms of how they want a real estate broker to represent them,” said Neil Garfinkel, the broker counsel to the Real Estate Board of New York. The association requires members to share listings within 24 hours after obtaining an exclusive listing, “unless the seller instructs them otherwise,” according to the bylaws.
无论怎样安排，经纪人都必须满足客户的要求。“卖家想让经纪人以何种方式代理他们的房产，确实都取决于卖家自己，”纽约房地产协会(Real Estate Board of New York)的法律顾问尼尔·加芬克尔(Neil Garfinkel)说。该协会要求成员在获得某个独家房源之后的24小时内，就要共享该房源，“除非卖家禁止他们这样做，”该协会的内部章程这样规定。
For some sellers, an off-market deal is often worth any loss they may take, especially if the target price is met. “It could save you some aggravation,” said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of Corcoran. Ms. Liebman sold her two-bedroom Miami home in an off-market deal earlier this year after receiving a call from an agent with whom she had previously worked who had a buyer who wanted it badly.
对某些卖家而言，无论一次场外交易的代价几何，通常都值得为此一试，尤其是在他们的目标价格得到满足的情况下。“这会省去你的一些麻烦，”Corcoran房地产公司的首席执行官帕梅拉·李勃曼(Pamela Liebman)说。今年早些时候，李勃曼通过一次场外交易，把自己在迈阿密的双卧室住所给卖掉了，因为她接到之前和她共事过的一位经纪人的电话，说有位买家十分想买那套公寓。
“I said I would do it as long as they gave me everything I wanted,” Ms. Liebman said. Her terms included a dollar-per-foot asking price that she said was a record for the building and a five-month option to lease the property back while renovating a new, larger Miami home. “I wanted time to finish my renovation and I didn’t want to be in between apartments,” she said.
“我说，只要他们能提供我想要的一切，我就会卖，”李勃曼说。她的条件中包括一个每平方英尺的美元要价，她说那个价格对于这栋楼来说是个新记录，还有一份对此房产为期5个月的返租合约，以便她在此期间翻修一套面积更大的迈阿密新居。“我需要时间来完成装修工作，但我不想在过渡住所间搬来搬去。”她说。
Such under-the-radar deals also can be advantageous for buyers, even if they end up paying a bit more. “When you get to the building and there are 15 people waiting in the lobby and you go up and another 12 people are in the apartment, you begin to think, ‘O.K., I’m never going to be able to find an apartment,’ ” said Jennifer Abrams, who works in the fashion industry in Manhattan.
对于买家来说，这种不引人注意的交易可能也有好处，即使他们最后要多付一点钱。“当你来到一栋大楼时，已经有15个人在大堂里等着，而你上楼之后发现还有另外12个人在公寓里，于是你就会想，‘好吧，我绝不可能找到一处公寓了，’”在曼哈顿时尚界工作的詹妮弗·艾布拉姆斯(Jennifer Abrams)说道。
Ms. Abrams searched for a large one-bedroom in Chelsea and the Flatiron for more than a year, only to be outbid when she finally fell in love with a place listed for $1.6 million at 49 East 21st Street, a boutique condo building.
艾布拉姆斯曾经花了一年多时间，在切尔西和熨斗街(Flatiron)寻找大户型的单卧室公寓，最后喜欢上东21街49号一栋精品公寓楼中，一套1600万美元（约合人民币9738万元）的寓所，却在竞价中不幸出局。
After resigning herself to renting for another year, she received a call from her agent, Michael Rubin of CORE.
她听天由命地又租房住了一年，然后接到了来自CORE公司经纪人迈克尔·鲁宾(Michael Rubin)的一个电话。
Mr. Rubin had just sold an apartment that needed a gut renovation to a client who would be moving from a one-bedroom at the Yves Chelsea, a glassy condo building at 166 West 18th Street — where Ms. Abrams had previously rented and had expressed interest in buying.
鲁宾刚刚将一套需要彻底翻修的公寓卖给一位客户，而那位客户即将从西18街166号的一栋玻璃幕墙式共管公寓大楼Yves Chelsea的单卧室公寓中搬家——那里正是艾布拉姆斯之前租住过、并且想买下的地方。
Though Mr. Rubin’s client wasn’t planning on listing the place until his new one was finished, he had told Mr. Rubin he would entertain offers from flexible buyers who could wait to move in until his renovation was completed — however long that might be.
尽管鲁宾的客户并不打算在新公寓的装修工作完成之前，就把该房产放盘出售，但他还是告诉鲁宾说，他也会考虑一些灵活性强的买家的出价，他们须等到他装修完毕再搬进去——不管时间有多久。
“I was O.K. with kind of hanging loose,” said Ms. Abrams, who saw the apartment in April and quickly signed a contract. “It was my way of mitigating the stress.”
“我没问题，可以慢慢来，”艾布拉姆斯说，她四月份看过这套公寓后，迅速签订了合同。“这就是我减轻竞争压力的方式。”
In some ways, going off the market in search of apartments for clients is “a throwback,” said Dottie Herman, the chief executive of Douglas Elliman. Before the advent of online services, brokers knocked on doors and cold-called owners to find new business, she said.
从某种意义上说，在公开市场之外为客户寻找公寓，是一种颇为“复古”的行为，Douglas Elliman地产公司的首席执行官多蒂·赫尔曼(Dottie Herman)说。在网络服务兴起之前，经纪人们会挨家挨户去敲门并给房东拨打陌生电话，来寻找新业务，她说。
After the entry of online listing services, she said, “they didn’t do that extra work. They didn’t have to.”
在线发布房源服务普及后，她说，“他们不再做原来那样的工作了。没有必要了。”
But new technology is facilitating off-market deals. In 2006, Zillow.com introduced “Make Me Move,” which lets homeowners name a price that would compel them to sell. There are 60,000 such listings on the site, with more than 1,000 homes added each week, according to the site.
但是，新技术也正在促进场外交易。2006年，房地产数据网站Zillow.com开通了一个“让我搬家”(Make Me Move)功能，让房东们给出一个能促使他们出售自己房屋的价格。据该网站统计，网站内已有6万条这样的信息发布，每周还会新增1000多条房屋信息。
Yapmo, a Chicago mobile software company that started in January, allows brokers within a given firm to virtually whisper about listings through a mobile app so they can engage directly about properties before they hit the market, without sifting through mounds of e-mail.
今年一月成立的一家芝加哥移动软件公司Yapmo，则允许某家公司内部的经纪人们通过一款移动app软件私下交流房源信息，以便他们能够在那些房产进入市场之前，直接参与其中，而不用在成堆的电子邮件中筛选。
Since adopting the software in January, @properties, a Chicago-based brokerage firm, has had an average of 41 properties per month go into contract before being put on the market, or roughly 5 percent of overall transactions.
自从@properties这家设立于芝加哥的中介公司一月开始使用该软件，他们平均每个月已有41套房产在投入市场之前就进入了签约流程，大约占其全部交易的5%。
In today’s tight market, quiet listings are also born out of the concerns of sellers worried about relocating in a climate of scarce listings. “A lot of owners want to sell but they don’t know where they’re going next,” said Raymond Dillulio, an agent with Douglas Elliman who is handling the whisper listing of a $23 million Greek Revival town house on Washington Square Park. Such clients, he said, feel more comfortable “rolling it out quietly” to see what they can get. “They don’t want to be pressured,” he said.
在如今这个供不应求的市场中，秘售房源的产生也源自卖家们的顾虑，他们担心在房源稀缺的大环境下，自己难以重新置业。“很多房东都想卖房，但他们不知接下来要去哪住，”Douglas Elliman公司的一位经纪人雷蒙德·迪卢洛(Raymond Dillulio)说，他正在出售位于华盛顿广场公园(Washington Square Park)的一栋2300万美元（约合人民币1.4亿元）的希腊复兴式联排别墅。他说，这类客户会“悄悄放出房源”看看能得到怎样的反馈，他们觉得这样更舒服些。“他们不想有压力。”他说。
Just last week, Nanette Shaw, who founded the Shaw Team at Coldwell Banker Bellmarc with her business partner Isa Goldberg, closed an off-market deal at Chatham Towers at 170 Park Row in Lower Manhattan. While showing a home in the building last March, they had been approached by the son of an elderly woman who had lived in a two-bedroom apartment there for 44 years.
就在上周（9月15日当周），在房地产公司Coldwell Banker Bellmarc创建了“肖恩团队”的纳内特·肖恩(Nanette Shaw)和她的生意伙伴艾萨·戈德堡(Isa Goldberg)，为位于曼哈顿下城区帕克街(Park Row)170号查塔姆大厦(Chatham Tower)内的一笔场外交易结了案。去年三月，他们在该大厦带人看房的时候，有位年长妇人的儿子找了过来，那位老人在一套双卧室公寓中已经住了44年。
“He explained that he would like to sell his mother’s apartment so that she could, at some point, when she’s ready, move to Bronxville, closer to him and his family,” Ms. Goldberg said.
“他解释说，他想出售母亲的公寓，以便她一旦（姑且说）做好准备以后，就能搬去布朗士区(Bronxville)，离他及他的家人住得更近些，”戈德堡说。
Keeping the listing quiet allowed them to be sensitive to the mother’s schedule and avoid the huge job of de-cluttering an apartment with decades of personal items. Ms. Goldberg and Ms. Shaw listed the place for $850,000 in Bellmarc’s internal database in March and put the word out to brokers with clients who had expressed interest in two-bedrooms in the building. They showed it three times and quickly received an offer for the full asking price. Another buyer offered $50,000 more. The initial buyer, represented by Pascal Blacque-Belair at Douglas Elliman, matched that offer and closed last week.
悄悄发布这套房源的信息，使他们得以充分迁就母亲的安排，也免去了清理公寓中堆满的几十年来的个人物品这项浩大工程。三月份，戈德堡和肖恩在Bellmarc公司的内部数据库中录入了这套公寓，报价85万美元（约合人民币517万元），然后把消息告诉了一些有对这栋大楼的双卧室公寓感兴趣的客户的经纪人。只安排了三次看房，他们就立刻收到一份报价，金额和要价相当；而另一位买家则多报了5万美元（约合人民币30.4万元）。上周，由Douglas Elliman公司的Pascal Blacque-Belair(帕斯卡尔·布莱克-比莱尔)代表的那位最初的买家最终追平了那份报价，完成了交易。
“I think they paid a fair price,” Mr. Blacque-Belair said. “Who knows — had it been listed and they had gone into a bidding war with multiple buyers they may not have gotten it.
“我觉得他们付了个不错的价钱，”布莱克-比莱尔说，“谁知道呢——要是这套公寓被挂出去，他们就得和很多买家一起陷入一场竞价大战，也许他们就买不到这套公寓了。”
“It was a quiet kind of bidding war,” he said.
“而这是一种悄无声息的竞价战，”他说。