THREE INVESTIGATORS work for the Queens County public administrator. They comb through the residences of the departed, mining their homes for clues as to what was owned, who their relatives were. It’s a peculiar kind of work, seeing what strangers had kept in their closets, what they hung on the walls, what deodorant they liked.
皇后县公共行政官手下有三个调查员。他们会搜索死者的住处，在家中寻找线索，比如死者拥有什么，他们的亲属是谁。这是份特别的差事，可以看到陌生人在橱柜里都放了些什么，墙上挂着什么，喜欢用什么样的除臭剂。
On July 24, two investigators, Juan Plaza and Ronald Rodriguez, entered the glutted premises of the Bell apartment, clad in billowy hazmat suits and bootees. Investigators work in pairs, to discourage theft.
7月24日，两名调查员——胡安·普拉扎(Juan Plaza)和罗纳德·罗德里格兹(Ronald Rodriguez)——穿上蓬松的防护服和靴子，走进贝尔那间杂物堆积如山的寓所。为了吓退小偷，调查员一般两人一组执行任务。
Bleak as the place was, they had seen worse. An apartment so swollen with belongings that the tenant, a woman, died standing up, unable to collapse to the floor. Or the place they fled swatting at swarms of fleas.
屋内十分阴森，不过不算他们见过最糟的。有一次，一个房间里因为东西太多，女房客是站着死去的，没能倒到地上。还有一次成群的跳蚤咬得他们夺门而出。
Yes, they saw a human existence that few others did.
是的，他们见过的世态炎凉，一般人是闻所未闻的。
Mr. Plaza had been a data entry clerk before joining his macabre field in 1994; Mr. Rodriguez had been a waiter and found his interest piqued in 2002.
普拉扎于1994年开始从事这份与死亡作伴的职业，此前是一个数据录入员；罗德里格兹做过餐馆服务生，2002年发现了自己的兴趣所在。
What qualified someone for the job? Ms. Rosenblatt, the head of the office, summed it up: “People willing to go into these disgusting apartments.”
什么样的人有资格做这份工作？公共行政官罗森布拉特用了一句话概括：“愿意走进那些令人作呕的公寓的人。”
The two men foraged through the unedited anarchy, 800 square feet, one bedroom. A stench thickened the air. Mr. Plaza dabbed his nostrils with a Vicks vapor stick. Mr. Rodriguez toughed it out. Vicks bothered his nose.
两人在一个完全不加整理的无序世界中搜寻着，800平方英尺，一个卧室。空气中弥漫着浓烈的恶臭。普拉扎用Vicks嗅吸棒在鼻孔下点了点。罗德里格兹打算硬挺过去。他的鼻子用了Vicks会不舒服。
The only bed was the lumpy foldout couch in the living room. The bedroom and bathroom looked pillaged. The kitchen was splashed with trash and balled-up, decades-old lottery tickets that had failed to deliver. A soiled shopping list read: sea salt, garlic, carrots, broccoli (two packs), “TV Guide.”
屋内唯一的床是客厅里的一张坑坑洼洼的折叠沙发。卧室和卫生间像是被人洗劫过一般。厨房满地是垃圾，一团团没能带来惊喜的彩票，是几十年前的。一张脏兮兮的购物清单上写着：海盐、蒜、胡萝卜、花椰菜（两包）、《电视指南》(TV Guide)。
The faucet didn’t work. The chipped stove had no knobs and could not have been used to cook in a long time.
水龙头不出水。破旧的炉子已经没了旋钮，应该很久前就不能做饭了。
The men scavenged for a will, a cemetery deed, financial documents, an address book, computer, cellphone, those sorts of things. Photographs might show relatives — could that be a mom or sis beaming in that picture on the mantel?
两人感兴趣的是遗嘱、墓地契约、财务记录、通讯录、电脑、手机之类的东西。照片上也许会有亲戚——壁炉架上的照片里那个兴高采烈的人，会不会是妈妈或姐姐？
Portable objects of value were to be retrieved. A Vermeer hangs on the wall? Grab it. Once they found $30,000 in cash, another time a Rolex wedged inside a radio. But the bar is not placed nearly that high: In one instance, they lugged back a picture of the deceased in a Knights of Malta outfit.
轻便的贵重物品需要收集起来。墙上挂着一幅弗美尔？拿走。有一次他们发现了三万美元现金，还有一次在一台收音机里发现卡着一块劳力士。
In the slanting light they scooped up papers from a table and some drawers in the living room. They found $241 in bills and $187.45 in coins. A silver Relic watch did not look special, but they took it in case.
就着倾斜的光线，他们从一张桌子和客厅的几个抽屉里找出一些文件。还找到了241美元纸币，187.45美元硬币。有一块银色的Relic手表，看起来没什么特别，但以防万一他们还是将其拿走。
Fastened to the walls were a bear’s head, steer horns and some military pictures of planes and warships. Over the couch hung a photo sequence of a parachutist coming in for a landing, with a certificate recording George Bell’s first jump in 1963. Chinese food cartons and pizza boxes were ubiquitous. Shelves were stacked with music tapes and videos: “Top Gun,” “Braveheart,” “Yule Log.”
墙上挂着一个熊头、一对小牛角以及有飞机和战舰的军事照片。沙发上方有一系列照片，呈现了一个人跳伞落地的过程，还有一张证书，记录了乔治·贝尔在1963年的第一跳。中餐外卖饭盒和披萨盒随处可见。书架上堆着音乐磁带和录像带：《壮志凌云》、《勇敢的心》、《圣诞原木》(Yule Log)。
A splotched calendar from Lucky Market hung in the bathroom, flipped open to August 2007.
卫生间挂着一个有污渍的幸运市场(Lucky Market)日历，翻在2007年8月。
Hoarding is deemed a mental disorder, poorly understood, that stirs people to incoherent acts; sufferers may buy products simply to have them. Amid the mess were a half-dozen unopened ironing board covers, multiple packages of unused Christmas lights, four new tire-pressure gauges.
很多人不知道的是，囤物被视为一种精神疾病，会让人产生不合情理的行为；患者会为了拥有某件东西而去花钱买。在这一大堆乱糟糟的东西里有半打全新未开封的熨衣板盖布，几盒没用过的圣诞节彩灯，四个崭新的胎压计。
The investigators returned twice more, rounding up more papers, another $95. They found no cellphone, no computer or credit cards.
此后调查员又来过两次，搜集更多的文件，又找到95美元。他们没找到手机、电脑或信用卡。
Rummaging through the personal effects of the dead, sensing the misery in these rooms, can color your thoughts. The work changes people, and it has changed these men.
仔细翻查一个死者身后留下的东西，感受着那些房间里的辛酸悲苦，是会影响一个人的心思的。工作会改变人，这两位调查员就被这份工作改变了。
Mr. Rodriguez, 57 and divorced, has a greater sense of urgency. “I try to build a life like it’s the last day,” he said. “You never know when you will die. Before this, I went along like I would live forever.”
现年57岁的罗德里格兹已经离异，现在他愈发感到时间紧迫。“我在努力经营自己的生活，把每一天都当成最后一天，”他说。“谁知道什么时候就死了呢。以前我觉得我永远不会死。”
The solitude of so many deaths wears on Mr. Plaza, the fear that someday it will be him splayed on the floor in one of these silent apartments. “This job teaches you a lot,” he said. “You learn whatever material stuff you have you should use it and share it. Share yourself. People die with nobody to talk to. They die and relatives come out of the woodwork. ‘He was my uncle. He was my cousin. Give me what he had.’ Gimme, gimme. Yet when he was alive they never visited, never knew the person. From working in this office, my life changed.”
这些孤独的逝者让普拉扎备感沉重，他担心有一天自己也会倒在这样一间静寂的公寓里。“这份工作让你学到很多东西，”他说。“你现在知道物质的东西要拿出来用，跟人分享。分享你自己。有的死前找不到个能说话的人。等死了就突然冒出一群亲戚。‘他是我叔叔。他是我堂哥。把他的东西给我。’给我，给我。可他活着的时候他们从来不上门，根本不认识这人。在这个地方做事，改变了我的人生。”
He is 52, also divorced, and without children, but he keeps expanding his base of friends. Every day, he sends them motivational Instagram messages: “With each sunrise, may we value every minute”; “Be kind, smile to the world and it will smile back”; “Share your life with loved ones”; “Love, forgive, forget.”
他52岁，也是离异，没有孩子，但是他不断在扩展自己的朋友圈子。他每天在Instagram上发励志的话：“每当日出，让我们珍惜每一分钟”；“用善意和微笑对待世界，世界也会这样待你”；“你的人生需与至爱亲朋分享”；“爱，宽恕，忘却”。
He said: “When I die, someone will find out the same day or the next day. Since I’ve worked here, my list of friends has gotten longer and longer. I don’t want to die alone.”
他说：“等我死的时候，当天或第二天就会有人发现。因为我在这里工作，我的朋友越来越多。我不想一个人死去。”
IN HIS QUEENS CUBICLE, wearing rubber gloves, Patrick Stressler thumbed through the sheaf of documents retrieved by the two investigators. Mr. Stressler, the caseworker with the public administrator’s office responsible for piecing together George Bell’s estate, is formally a “decedent property agent,” a title he finds useful as a conversation starter at parties. He is 27, and had been a restaurant cashier five years ago when he learned you could be a decedent property agent and became one.
帕特里克·斯特拉斯勒(Patrick Stressler)坐在皇后县办公室的小隔间里，戴着橡胶手套翻找着两位调查员搜集来的一捆捆文件。斯特拉斯勒是公共行政官办公室的社工，负责把乔治·贝尔的遗产拼合起来，他的正式身份是“死者财产代理人”，他发现在聚会上用这个头衔当开场白效果挺不错。他现年27岁，五年前是一个餐馆收银员，在得知原来还有死者财产代理这种工作后，他就干起了这一行。
He began with the pictures. Mr. Stressler mingles in the leavings of people he can never meet and especially likes to ponder the photographs so “you get a sense of a person’s history, not that they just died.”
先从照片入手。跟素昧平生的人留下的东西打交道，让斯特拉斯勒感到很自在，他尤其喜欢盯着照片看，可以“感受一个人的历史，而不是去想他刚刚死去”。
The snapshots ranged over the humdrum of life. A child wearing a holster and toy pistols. A man in military dress. Men fishing. A young woman sitting on a chair in a corner. A high school class on a stage, everyone wearing blackface. “Different times,” Mr. Stressler mused.
照片里都是些普通的生活瞬间。一个佩戴枪套和玩具手枪的孩子。一个穿着军装的男人。几个男人在钓鱼。一个年轻女人坐在角落的椅子上。一个班的高中生在舞台上，画着“黑脸”戏妆。“时代不一样了，”斯特拉斯勒若有所思地说。
In the end, the photos divulged little of what George Bell had done across his 72 years.
最终，照片没能让我们对乔治·贝尔这72年的人生有多少了解。
The thicket of papers yielded a few hazy kernels. An unused passport, issued in 2007 to George Main Bell Jr., showing a thick-necked man with a meaty face ripened by time, born Jan. 15, 1942. Documents establishing that his father — George Bell — died in 1969 at 59, his mother, Davina Bell, in 1981 at 76.
从成堆的纸片中得出了几个依稀的重点。一张没用过的护照，2007年签发给1942年1月15日出生的“小乔治·梅恩·贝尔”(George Main Bell Jr.)，照片中是一个粗脖子男人，满脸横肉已被岁月消磨得没脾气。通过文件可得出他的父亲——乔治·贝尔——死于1969年，59岁，他的母亲达维娜·贝尔(Davina Bell)死于1981年，76岁。
Some holiday cards. Several from an Elsie Logan in Red Bank, N.J., thanking him for gifts of Godiva chocolates. One, dated 2001, said: “I called Sunday around 2 — no answer. Will try again.” A 2007 Thanksgiving Day card read, “I have been trying to call you — but no answer.”
一些节日贺卡。有几张来自新泽西州雷德班克的艾尔茜·洛根(Elsie Logan)，感谢他送的歌帝梵巧克力。有一张2001年的写着：“周日两点左右我打过电话——没人接。稍后会再打。”一张2007年感恩节贺卡上写着，“我一直在打你电话——没人接。”
A 2001 Christmas card signed, “Love always, Eleanore (Puffy),” with the message: “I seldom mention it, but I hope you realize how much it means to have you for a friend. I care a lot for you.”
一张2001年的圣诞卡落款是“永远爱你的，伊莲诺（胖胖）”，随附一段话：“这话我很少说，但是我希望你知道，有你这样一个朋友对我很重要。我很挂念你。”
Cards from a Thomas Higginbotham, addressed to “Big George” and signed “friend, Tom.”
有个叫托马斯·希根巴塔姆(Thomas Higginbotham)的寄来过几张卡，管他叫“大乔治”，落款是“朋友，汤姆”。
A golden find: H&R Block-prepared tax returns, useful for divining assets. The latest showed adjusted gross income of $13,207 from a pension and interest, another $21,311 from Social Security. The bank statements contained the biggest revelation: For what appeared to be a simple life, they showed balances of several hundred thousand dollars. Letters went out to confirm the amounts.
有一个重大发现：H&R布洛克税务公司做的纳税申报表，对资产估算很有帮助。上面显示最后一笔调整后净收入为13,207美元，是一笔养老金和利息，还有一笔21,311美元的社保。银行对账单里包含着一个极重要的信息：这个看起来过着简单生活的人，银行账面上却有数万美元的收支。发函确认账目金额。
No evidence of stocks or bonds, but a small life insurance policy, with the beneficiaries his parents. And there was a will, dated 1982. It split his estate evenly among three men and a woman of unknown relation. And specified that George Bell be cremated.
没有发现持有股票或债券的证据，但有一个小额寿险保单，受益人是他的父母。有一份遗嘱，立于1982年。上面说明把遗产均分给三个男人和一个女人，他们和死者的关系不详。遗嘱还表明乔治·贝尔要求火化。
Using addresses he found online, Mr. Stressler sent out form letters asking the four to contact him. He heard only from a Martin Westbrook, who called from Sprakers, a hamlet in upstate New York, and said he had not spoken with George Bell in some time. The will named him as executor, but he deferred to the public administrator.
斯特拉斯勒在网上寻找了遗嘱中四人的地址，分别发函要求他们与他取得联系。只有一个叫马丁·韦斯特布鲁克(Martin Westbrook)的回复了，他从纽约州北部小村Sprakers打来电话，说他跟乔治·贝尔有一阵没联络了。遗嘱指定他为遗嘱执行人，但他表示还是交由公共行政官处理。
Loose ends began to be tidied up. The car, a silver 2005 Toyota RAV4, was sent to an auctioneer. There was a notice advising that George Bell had not responded to two juror questionnaires and was now subpoenaed to appear before the commissioner of jurors; a letter went out saying he would not be there. He was dead.
情况开始清晰起来。那辆车——2005年产银色丰田RAV4——已经被送去拍卖。有一张通知说乔治·贝尔没有回复两份陪审员问卷，现在收到了传票，要求他去面见陪审员审选官；发函告知他不会到场。他死了。
If an apartment’s contents have any value, auction companies bid for them. When they don’t, “cleanout companies” dispose of the belongings. George Bell’s place was deemed a cleanout.
住所内如果有值钱的东西，拍卖行会出价。如果没人出价，“清扫公司”会把东西处理掉。乔治·贝尔的住所被认为是要清扫的。
Among his papers was an honorable military discharge from 1966, following six years in the United States Army Reserve. A request was made to the Department of Veterans Affairs, national cemetery administration, in St. Louis, for burial in one of its national cemeteries, with the government paying the bill.
他的文件中有一张1966年的光荣退伍证书，在美国陆军预备役部队待了六年。向圣路易斯的退伍军人事务部(Department of Veterans Affairs)国家公墓管理局发函申请在国家公墓安葬，由政府支付丧葬费用。
St. Louis responded that George Bell did not qualify as a veteran, not having seen active duty or having died while in the Reserves. The public administrator appealed the rebuff. A week later, 16 pages came back from the centralized satellite processing and appeals unit that could be summed up in unambiguous concision: No.
圣路易斯方面回复说，乔治·贝尔不算退伍军人，他没有服过现役，也不是在服预备役时死亡的。公共行政官对这一回绝提出上诉。一周后，“中央卫星处理和上诉组”发来一份16页的文件，其内容用简洁易懂的语言概括下来就是：不。
Another thing the public administrator takes care of is having the post office forward the mail of the deceased. Statements may arrive from brokerage houses. Letters could pinpoint the whereabouts of relatives. When magazines show up, the subscriptions are ended and refunds requested. Could be $6.82 or $12.05, but the puny sums enter the estate, pushing it incrementally upward.
还有一件事需要公共行政官处理，他要让邮局转寄死者的邮件。也许会有券商发来的报告。信件可以用来确定亲属的所在地。若有杂志寄来，会要求取消订阅并退费。也许只有6.82或12.05美元，但这些小钱都会被归入遗产，总额越累越高。
Not much came for George Bell: bank statements, a notice on the apartment insurance, utility bills, junk mail.
乔治·贝尔收到的东西很少：银行对账单，一份公寓保险通知，水电账单，垃圾邮件。
EVERY LIFE DESERVES to come to a final resting place, but they’re not all pretty. Most estates arrive with the public administrator after the body has already been buried by relatives or friends or in accordance with a prepaid plan.
每一个生命都理应得到一个归宿，但有的会没那么好看。绝大多数情况下，当一个遗产到达公共行政官这里时，死者的遗体已经被亲友埋葬，或者按照已经付费的方案执行。
When someone dies destitute and forsaken, and one of various free burial organizations does not learn of the case, the body ends up joining others in communal oblivion at the potter’s field on Hart Island in the Bronx, the graveyard of last resort.
当一个人在贫穷和孤独中死去，而几个免费丧葬机构都不愿受理时，遗体就会和其他被遗忘的人一起，葬于布隆克斯哈特岛上的“窑工之地”，那是万不得已才会选择的墓场。
If there are funds, the public administrator honors the wishes of the will or of relatives. When no one speaks for the deceased, the office is partial to two fairly dismal, cut-rate cemeteries in New Jersey. It prefers the total expense to come in under $5,000, not always easy in a city where funeral and burial costs can be multiples of that.
如果有钱，公共行政官会遵照遗嘱或亲属的意愿执行。如果没有人为死者提出主张，行政官办公室倾向于选择新泽西州的两处颇为凄凉而寒酸的墓地。行政官希望把开销控制在5000美元以内，这并非易事，这座城市的丧葬费用动辄几倍于这个数字。
Simonson Funeral Home in Forest Hills was picked by Susan Brown, the deputy public administrator, to handle George Bell once his identity was verified. It is among 16 regulars that she rotates the office’s deaths through.
副公共行政官苏珊·布朗(Susan Brown)选择了森林小丘的西蒙逊殡仪馆(Simonson Funeral Home)负责乔治·贝尔的葬礼，只等他的身份得到最后确认。她手头有16家这样的殡仪馆，用于处理由行政官接手的死者葬礼。
George Bell’s body was hardly the first to be trapped in limbo. Some years ago, one had lingered for weeks while siblings skirmished over the funeral specifics. The decedent’s sister wanted a barbershop quartet and brass band to perform; a brother preferred something solemn. Surrogate’s Court nodded in favor of the sister, and the man got a melodious send-off.
乔治·贝尔的遗体被迫搁置着，这样的情况当然也不是第一次。几年前有一具遗体被搁置了几周，因为死者的兄弟姐妹为了葬礼细节发生争执。姐姐想要男声四重唱和铜管乐队演奏；弟弟则希望场面庄重些。遗嘱检验法院认可了姐姐的主张，在动人的乐声中送他上路。
The medical examiner was not having any luck with George Bell. The cold calls to doctors and hospitals continued, but as the inquiries bounced around Queens, the discouraging answers came back slowly and redundantly: no George Bell.
法医的运气不佳。他们还在继续给医生和医院打电话，皇后区的角角落落都接到了问询，令人沮丧的回答陆陆续续返回，内容是一样的：没有乔治·贝尔这个人。
In the interim, the medical examiner filed an unverified death certificate, on July 28. The cause of death was determined to be hypertensive and arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease, with obesity a significant factor. This was surmised, based on the position in which the body was found, its age, the man’s size and the statistical likelihood of it being the cause. Occupation was listed as unknown.
在这期间，法医于7月28日签发了一张未确认死亡证明。死因定为高血压和动脉粥样硬化性心血管疾病，肥胖是一个重要因素。这是一个推断，依据的是被发现时的姿态、年龄、体型以及这一原因致死的概率。职业登记为不详。
City law specifies that bodies be buried, cremated or sent from the city within four days of discovery, unless an exemption is granted. The medical examiner can release even an unverified body for burial. Absent a corpse’s being confirmed, however, the policy of the medical examiner is not to allow cremation. What if there has been a mistake? You can’t un-cremate someone.
纽约市法律规定尸体发现后四天内埋葬、火化或运离该市，除非获得豁免。法医有权让未确认身份的尸体土葬。不过，按照规定尸体在未经确认的情况下是不能火化的。万一有差错呢？火化可是不能反悔的。
So days scrolled past. Other corpses streamed through the morgue, pausing on their way to the grave, while the body presumed to be George Bell entered its second month of chilled residence. Then its third.
时间一天天地过去。其他的尸体来了又走，只是在去往坟墓的路上暂停片刻，而被认为是乔治·贝尔的尸体已经在冰冻中度过了两个月。然后是第三个月。
IN EARLY SEPTEMBER last year, a downstairs neighbor complained to the public administrator that George Bell’s refrigerator was leaking through the ceiling and that vermin might be scuttling about.
去年九月，楼下的邻居向公共行政官投诉，乔治·贝尔的冰箱漏水，渗透了他的天花板，另外可能还在闹虫灾。
Grandma’s Attic Cleanouts was sent over to remove the offending appliance. Diego Benitez, the company’s owner, showed up with two workers.
祖母的阁楼清扫公司(Grandma’s Attic Cleanouts)被派去清理出状况的电器。公司老板迭戈·本尼特兹(Diego Benitez)和两个工人来到现场。
The refrigerator was unplugged, with unfrozen frozen vegetables and Chinese takeout rotting inside. Roaches had moved in. Mr. Benitez doused it with bug spray. He plugged it in to chill the food and rid it of the smell, then cleaned it out and took it to a recycling center in Jamaica. A few weeks later, Wipeout Exterminating came in and treated the whole place.
冰箱的插头已经拔下来，冷冻蔬菜和中餐外卖解冻后开始腐烂。里面住了蟑螂。本尼特兹喷了一些杀虫剂，把冰箱重新插上电，让食物冷却下来好止住臭味，然后把它清理干净，运到牙买加区一个回收站。几周后，一扫光杀虫公司(Wipeout Exterminating)对整间公寓做了处理。
Meanwhile, the medical examiner kept calling around hunting for old X-rays. In late September, the 11th call hit pay dirt. A radiology provider had chest X-rays of George Bell dating from 2004. They were in a warehouse, though, and would take some time to retrieve.
与此同时，法医还在不停拨电话，寻找以前的X光片。九月底，第11通电话挖到了宝。一个放射科服务商有乔治·贝尔的一张2004年的胸片。不过片子在仓库里，找出来要费些时间。
Weeks tumbled by. In late October, the radiology service reported: Sorry, the X-rays had been destroyed. The medical examiner asked for written confirmation. Back came the response: Never mind, the X-rays were there. In early November, they landed at the medical examiner’s office.
一转眼几周又过去了。十月底，那个放射科服务商告称：抱歉，X光片已经销毁。法医要求出具书面确认。对方的回应是：没事了，X光片还在。十一月初，几张胸片送到了法医办公室。
The X-rays were compared, and bingo. In the first week of November, nearly four months after it had arrived, the presumed corpse of George Bell officially became George Bell, deceased, of Jackson Heights, Queens.
比对结果是吻合的。十一月的第一周，运抵停尸房将近四个月后，假定为乔治·贝尔的尸体被正式确认为已故皇后区杰克逊高地居民乔治·贝尔。