In a sweeping change to how most of its 1,800 employees are paid, the Union Square Hospitality Group will eliminate tipping at Gramercy Tavern, Union Square Cafe and its 11 other restaurants by the end of next year, the company’s chief executive, Danny Meyer, said on Wednesday.
周三（10月14日），联合广场餐饮集团(Union Square Hospitality Group)的首席执行官丹尼·梅耶(Danny Meyer)说，为了彻底改变1800名员工获得酬劳的方式，明年年底之前，该集团将取消谢来喜酒馆(Gramercy Tavern)和联合广场咖啡馆(Union Square Cafe)等13家餐馆的小费。
The move will affect New York City businesses that serve 40,000 to 50,000 meals a week and range from simple museum cafes to some of the most popular and acclaimed restaurants in the country. The first will be the Modern, inside the Museum of Modern Art, starting next month. The others will gradually follow.
这一举措将影响整个纽约市的餐饮业，该行业每周供应四万至五万顿饭，包括各种形式，从简单的博物馆咖啡馆到美国最受欢迎和赞美的餐馆。第一家取消小费的是现代艺术博物馆(Museum of Modern Art)的现代餐厅(Modern)，它将从下个月开始实施。其他餐馆将逐步效仿。
A small number of restaurants around the country have reduced or eliminated tipping in the last several years. Some, like Atelier Crenn in San Francisco, put a surcharge on the bill, allowing the restaurants to set the pay for all their employees. Others, including Bruno Pizza, a new restaurant in the East Village, factor the cost of an hourly wage for servers into their menu prices.
在过去几年里，美国的少数几家餐馆减少或取消了小费。有些餐馆在账单上增加了一项附加费，让餐馆来决定所有员工的报酬，比如旧金山的Atelier Crenn。还有些餐馆是把服务员的平均小时工资加到菜价里，比如东村的新餐馆布鲁诺披萨店(Bruno Pizza)。
Union Square Hospitality Group will do the latter. Menus will explain that prices include “hospitality,” and checks will not provide blank lines for a tip. “There will be one total, as if you were buying a sweater at Brooks Brothers,” Mr. Meyer said.
联合广场餐饮集团将采用第二种做法。菜单上将说明菜价包含“服务费”，账单不会留出填写小费的空白栏。“只有一个总价，就像你在布克兄弟(Brooks Brothers)买毛衣一样，”梅耶说。
The Modern will be the pilot restaurant, Mr. Meyer said, because its chef, Abram Bissell, has been agitating for higher pay to attract skilled cooks. The average hourly wage for kitchen employees at the restaurant is expected to rise to $15.25 from $11.75. Mr. Meyer said that restaurants such as his needed to stay competitive as the state moved to a $15 minimum wage for fast-food workers.
梅耶说，现代餐厅之所以成为试点餐厅是因为它的大厨艾布拉姆·比塞尔(Abram Bissell)一直主张通过支付更高的报酬来吸引熟练厨师。这家餐馆厨房员工的平均小时工资预计能从11.75美元提高到15.25美元。梅耶说，像现代餐厅这样的餐厅需要保持竞争力，因为美国快餐员工的最低小时工资已经增长至15美元。
If cooks’ wages do not keep pace with the cost of living, he said, “it’s not going to be sustainable to attract the culinary talent that the city needs to keep its edge.”
他说，如果厨师的工资跟不上生活成本，“就无法长期吸引烹饪人才，而这座城市需要这些人才来保持优势”。
Other restaurateurs will be watching closely to see whether Mr. Meyer can change the deeply ingrained culture of tipping and still make a profit.
其他餐厅将密切关注梅耶能否在保持利润的同时改变根深蒂固的小费文化。
“Danny has a lot of trust out there with his customer base,” the chef and restaurateur Tom Colicchio said, “and if they’re willing to pay higher prices, it’s going to make it easier for everybody else. That’s still my biggest concern: whether the dining public is up for it.”
“丹尼非常信任他的顾客群，”大厨兼餐馆老板汤姆·科利基奥(Tom Colicchio)说，“如果他们愿意支付更高的价格，那么其他所有人都会更轻松。我最大的顾虑依然是，用餐的大众是否支持这种改变。”
Mr. Colicchio said that the success of the car service Uber, whose fee includes service, “is making it possible at least for younger generations to swallow this.”
科利基奥说，打车软件Uber的车费包括服务费，这种做法已经取得成功，“所以人们可能会接受取消小费，至少年轻人会接受”。
His flagship restaurant in Manhattan, Craft, began serving lunch last month with service included in the price; tips are strongly discouraged. Mr. Colicchio said that he planned to decide soon whether to do the same at dinner and at some of his other restaurants. “None of the waiters has quit yet, so that’s a good sign,” he said.
上个月，科利基奥在曼哈顿的旗舰餐厅Craft开始把午餐的服务费加在菜价上，同时强烈建议顾客不要给小费。科利基奥说，他打算很快决定是否在晚餐和自己的其他餐厅也采取这种做法。“目前还没有一个服务员辞职，这是个好兆头，”他说。
By increasing prices and ending tips, Mr. Meyer said he hoped to be able to raise pay for junior dining room managers and for cooks, dishwashers and other kitchen workers. Compensation would remain roughly the same for servers, who currently get most of their income from tips. Under federal labor laws, pooled tips can be distributed only to customer service workers who typically receive gratuities, and cannot be shared with the kitchen staff or managers.
梅耶说，通过提高菜价，取消小费，他希望能够增加初级餐厅经理以及厨师和洗碗工等厨房员工的报酬。服务员将来获得的报酬会与目前大致相当，目前他们的收入主要来自小费。根据联邦劳动法，共享小费通常只能分配给通常收取小费的服务人员，而不能与厨房员工或经理分享。
“The gap between what the kitchen and dining room workers make has grown by leaps and bounds,” Mr. Meyer said. During his 30 years in the business, he said, “kitchen income has gone up no more than 25 percent. Meanwhile, dining room pay has gone up 200 percent.”
“厨房和用餐区员工的收入差距在飞速扩大，”梅耶说。他说，在他从事这一行的30年里，“厨房员工的收入增长了不到25%。与此同时，用餐区员工的收入增长了200%”。
The wage gap is one of several issues cited by restaurateurs who have deleted the tip line from checks. Some believe it is unfair for servers’ pay to be affected by their race and age, their customer’s moods, the weather and other factors that have nothing to do with performance. A rash of class-action lawsuits over tipping irregularities, many of which have been settled for millions of dollars, is a mounting worry.
收入差距是一些餐馆老板取消小费的一个原因。有些人认为，服务员的报酬受到种族、年龄、顾客心情和天气等与服务表现无关的因素的影响，这样很不公平。大量出现的关于小费违规的集体诉讼也越来越令人担忧。很多诉讼都花费数百万美元才得以和解。
Scott Rosenberg, an owner of Sushi Yasuda in Manhattan, said in an interview in 2013 that he had eliminated tipping so his restaurant could more closely follow the customs of Japan, where tipping is rare. He said he also hoped his customers would enjoy leaving the table without having to solve a math problem.
2013年，曼哈顿安田寿司店(Sushi Yasuda)的老板斯科特·罗森伯格(Scott Rosenberg)在接受采访时说，他取消小费是为了让自己的餐馆更遵循日本的习俗，小费在日本十分少见。他说，他也希望顾客们能喜欢，因为他们临走前不必再费心计算小费。
But restaurants that pay servers a straight salary give up a sizable tax credit on tipped income. The Union Square Hospitality Group expects to lose from $1 million to $1.5 million — “real money,” as Mr. Meyer puts it — on the tax credit alone.
不过，如果餐馆只给服务员支付纯工资，就要放弃小费收入的巨额税收抵免。单在税收抵免这一项上，联合广场餐饮集团预计将损失100万至150万美元的“纯利润”（梅耶的原话）。
Drew Nieporent, who owns nine restaurants in New York City and one in London, said he doubted the average diner would accept an increase in prices that he estimated at “20-plus percent” to make up for the tax credit and lost tips.
德鲁·尼波兰(Drew Nieporent)在纽约市拥有九家餐馆，在伦敦有一家餐馆。他认为，普通食客不会接受提高菜价。据他估计，要想弥补税收抵免和小费损失，菜价需要增长“超过20%”。
“Tipping is a way of life in this country,” he said. “It may not be the perfect system, but it’s our system. It’s an American system.”
“付小费是这个国家的一种生活方式，”他说，“它可能不完美，但它是我们的习惯，是美国的一种习俗。”
Many customers remain deeply attached to the right to reward attentive service, or to withhold that reward. And servers often say that the bonanzas they take home after busy nights far outweigh the risk of getting nothing once in a while.
很多顾客依然非常喜欢自己有权去奖励体贴的服务或拒绝为不满意的服务付费。服务员们经常说，在忙了一晚上之后带着奖赏回家的几率远大于偶尔没有得到小费的几率。
In a series of meetings with servers and other staff members about the Union Square Hospitality Group’s new policy, “we got zero pushback,” Mr. Meyer said. “We’ve had lots and lots of tough questions, lots of thoughtful and provocative questions. But 100 percent of them, once they understand why, they all want to do the right thing for their team.”
梅耶说，联合广场餐饮集团多次与服务员和其他员工开会，讨论新政策，“我们没有遇到任何阻力。他们提出了很多尖锐的问题，很多值得深思的问题。但是在他们理解我们为什么要这样做之后，他们全部都同意为团队去做正确的事情”。