Sometimes it seems as if New York brokers can’t catch a break. The stereotype is that members of the species are rude, arrogant, aggressive, and more apt to talk than to listen. While the image may be just that — a stereotype — it clings to the people who help clients buy, sell and rent houses and apartments in this sharp-elbowed metropolis.
纽约的那些房地产经纪人们，有时候似乎忙得停不下来。他们这群人，形象千篇一律地粗鲁、自大、咄咄逼人，他们更喜欢对你说而非听你说。尽管有那样的形象，而且一成不变，但依附于那种形象的人，正在这个熙熙攘攘的都市中，帮客户们购买、出售或租赁一些房屋与公寓。
To counter this perception, many brokerages have professional coaches on staff; others bring in outside consultants. The goal is to teach brokers to project a warm and friendly image to their clients — who themselves aren’t always the easiest people in the world to deal with — and thus to be more effective in their work.
许多经纪行为了扭转这种认识，已经开始对员工进行职业培训了；其他公司则外聘顾问。大家的目标是教会经纪人以温暖而友善的形象面对客户，因而在工作中可以更有效率——尽管客户本身一直都不是世界上最容易打交道的人。
“For many years, the field of real estate didn’t change much,” said Laura Scott, an in-house coach with Douglas Elliman Real Estate, “and the broker was mostly an order-taker. But now, thanks to the Internet, everyone has his or her mousetrap, and so brokers have to be much more skilled, much smarter. They need to be better at building relationships, at getting out of their skin and putting themselves in their clients’ shoes, better at asking the right questions and not driving deals down people’s throats. That’s what we try to teach people to do.”
“多年来，房地产领域并没有多少改变，”道格拉斯·艾丽曼地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)的内部培训师劳拉·斯科特(Laura Scott)说，“而经纪人过去主要是跟单员。但现在，感谢英特网的出现，每个人都有了自己的老鼠夹，所以经纪人们不得不更有技巧、更聪明一些。他们得更善于建立关系，让自己脱胎换骨，把自己摆在客户的角度，更善于问对问题，而不是强迫别人接受一桩买卖。这就是我们在努力教人们做的事。”
A growing number of in-house and private coaches offer such training, according to Michael Slattery, a senior vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York. And in a time of punishingly low inventory and growing competition — the city was home to nearly 52,000 licensed salespeople and brokers as of mid-2013, according to the New York Department of State — brokers are seeking out their help.
据纽约房产局(Real Estate Board of New York)的一位高级副总裁麦克·斯拉特里(Michael Slattery)说，提供这种培训课程的公司内部训练师与私人培训师的数量，正变得越来越多。但在一个住房存量极其低，竞争却越来越激烈的时代——据纽约州务院(New York Department of State)统计，截至2013年年中，纽约市有将近52000名执照的销售人员与经纪人——这些经纪人们都在寻求培训师的帮助。
Dawn Doherty, a former Coldwell Banker broker with a silvery pixie cut and the warmth of your best friend from summer camp, is such a coach. She teaches brokers to present a more agreeable persona. She also instructs brokers on improved work habits so they’ll have more time to project this softer and gentler image to their clients. And she counsels brokers on ways to be outgoing without seeming pushy, a quality that any client who has been hounded by an overly persistent broker would appreciate.
科威国际不动产(Coldwell Banker)的前任经纪人，有一头银色的精灵短发、温暖得犹似一位夏令营好友的道恩·多尔蒂(Dawn Doherty)正是这样一位培训师。她教这些经纪人如何表现出一种更和蔼的形象，还教他们如何改善工作习惯，以便使自己有更多时间对客人展现这种温柔和蔼的形象。她指导经纪人们怎样保持活泼开朗的性格，却不显得咄咄逼人，这种品质是任何客户在受到某个锲而不舍的经纪人围追堵截时都会欣赏的。
“Likability is the key,” Ms. Doherty said. “Clients spends hours and hours with a broker. If they don’t like the broker, they’ll choose someone else.”
“讨人喜欢是关键，”多尔蒂说。“客人们与经纪人一待就是几个小时。如果他们不喜欢这位经纪人，就会选择其他的人。”
Ms. Doherty, who is turning 50 this month, was certified in 2010 as a business development coach by the Institute for Professional Excellence in Coaching. Two years later she started the business that bears her name. Her clients include professionals in other walks of life, but as someone who spent five years working as a broker in Denver and the Silicon Valley, and four years as an executive for business development at Streeteasy.com, the online listings service, she has an affinity for those in that field.
这个月即将50岁的多尔蒂，于2010年获得了由培训业职业精英学院(Institute for Professional Excellence in Coaching)颁发的业务拓展培训师资格证。两年后，她以自己的名字开了一家公司。虽然她的客户中有各行各业的专业人士，但是，作为一名在丹佛(Denver)和硅谷(Silicon Valley)当了5年经纪人，又在Streeteasy.com这家在线地产服务公司当了4年的业务拓展执行官的人士，她对这个领域中的人来说，有一种亲和力。
According to her, when it comes to brokers, clients voice the same complaints over and over: My broker is always on her cellphone; my broker never listens to me; my broker argues with me; my broker is more interested in other clients than in me; the only thing my broker cares about is closing the deal.
据她说，谈到经纪人时，客户们会一再抱怨同样的事：我的经纪人电话一直在通话中；我的经纪人从来不会听我说；我的经纪人与我意见相左；我的经纪人对别的客人比对我更有兴趣；我的经纪人唯一关心的事，就是完成交易。
Using group seminars and one-on-one training — $6,000 for a dozen individual sessions over six months — Ms. Doherty teaches brokers to behave in a way that obviates those criticisms. Nearly 200 New York brokers have used her services to date, and a dozen are currently receiving individual coaching.
多尔蒂以小组讨论和一对一培训的形式——这项为期6个月的12次个人培训课程收费6000美元（约合人民币37252.2元）——教那些经纪人怎样规范行为举止以避免指责。迄今为止，纽约市已经有200名经纪人上过了她的课，还有12名纪人目前正在接受个人培训。
To pinpoint potentially troublesome behavior, Ms. Doherty administers a 70-question assessment that measures such qualities as argumentativeness, inability to play well with others and tendency to get upset when deals go south. Brokers are asked to rate statements such as “I get disappointed and upset when things don’t go my way” and “When confronted by a perceived threat, I tend to fight,” on a scale ranging from “completely true” to “completely untrue.” Using techniques like role-playing, Ms. Doherty helps brokers see how they appear to their clients.
为了找到潜在有问题的行为，多尔蒂运用了一套由70个问题组成的评估方法，来测定诸如好争辩的性格、无法与他人打成一片的性格、以及交易下降时易于低落的性格。经纪人们按要求来评估每一项陈述，比如“事情没有如我所愿的话，我就会失望和沮丧”，还有“面对已经察觉到的威胁时，我往往会去战斗”等等，然后做出从“完全正确”到“完全不对”之间的一系列选择。多尔蒂运用角色扮演之类的技巧，帮助经纪人们看到了他们在客户面前的样子。
In her opinion, being a good listener is critical. “When brokers are with a client,” Ms. Doherty said, “they typically spend 80 percent of the time talking. That’s a problem right there, because it turns people off. It means you’re not listening.”
在她看来，成为一名优秀的倾听者是问题的关键。“当经纪人和客户在一起的时候，”多尔蒂说，“他们一般80%的时间都在说话。那就是个问题，因为这让别人无所适从。这意味着你没有在倾听。”
She also teaches brokers to ask the right questions. “The wrong question is a yes-or-no question,” she said. “The right question is an open-ended question. Don’t ask the clients if they want to live near the park. Say, ‘Talk to me about the amenities you must have.’
她还教经纪人们要问对问题。“错误的问题是指，要回答是或不是的问题，”她说道。“而正确的问题是指，有开放式回答的问题。不要问客人他们是否想住在公园附近，而应该问‘说说你要什么样的小区环境吧’。”
“The client might say she’s looking for an apartment in the West Village. Then another broker sells her an apartment in Chelsea. The first broker missed that opportunity by not sufficiently probing the client’s feelings.”
“客人可能会说，她正在寻找一套位于西村(West Village)的公寓。然后另一位经纪人卖了一套切尔西区(Chelsea)的公寓给她。第一位经纪人错失了机会，因为没有充分了解客人的情感需求。”
Avoiding what she calls “fierce conversations” can also backfire. “Many brokers are so desperate to take a client to see apartments that they avoid uncomfortable conversations,” Ms. Doherty said. “Many of my clients admit that they missed out on closing deals for their clients because they didn’t have their financial statements upfront.”
而回避她所谓的“坦率交谈”，也会让结果事与愿违。“许多经纪人都急于带客人去看房子，以至于没能谈到一些不那么愉快的话题，”多尔蒂说。“我的很多客户都承认，他们最后没有为客户完成交易，是因为他们没有先谈谈客人的财务状况。”
Cellphones are a major issue. “I tell brokers to stay off their cellphones when they’re with a client,” Ms. Doherty said. “If you think you’ll need to take an important call — let’s say your mother is in the hospital — ask the client’s permission to check your phone. But even then, keep the ringer off.”
手机是个大问题。“我告诉经纪人说，和客户待在一起的时候，把手机放在一边吧，”多尔蒂说。“如果你觉得要接一个重要电话——比如说你的母亲住院了——那么先问问你的客户，能否让你看看电话。即便如此，你也要把来电铃声关掉。”
Certain friendly behavior, she advises, can work wonders.
某些友善的行为，她建议说，可以创造奇迹。
“Say hi to people when you’re waiting in line at Starbucks,” Ms. Doherty suggests. “Don’t be afraid to pick up a phone and say: ‘I’m not trying to sell you anything. I’m just going through my contact list and wanted to stay in touch.’ You can’t have time for people only when they’re ready to buy or sell. You want to be on their radar all the time.”
“在星巴克排队买咖啡的时候，和别人打打招呼吧，”多尔蒂建议。“别害怕拿起电话说：‘我不是要卖什么给你。我只是看了一下通讯录，然后想和你联络联络。’你不能只等着人们在要买什么或者要卖什么的时候，才为他们花些时间。你得一直在他们的雷达范围内。”
She also shows brokers that they can better serve their clients by working well with other brokers. “Because if you’re a pain in the neck,” she said, “they won’t show their apartments to your client.”
她还让经纪人们看到，和其他经纪人好好相处，能够更好地服务他们的客户。“因为，如果你是个不招人喜欢的人，”她说，“他们就不会把他们的公寓给你的客人看了。”
Ms. Doherty acknowledges that she can’t work miracles: “I can’t change people,” she said. “I can only guide them.” She also emphasizes that being a broker is not for everyone. “It’s a field that’s about building relationships, not just pushing product,” she said. “If you don’t love people, then perhaps this isn’t the profession for you.”
多尔蒂承认，她无法制造奇迹。“我不能改变别人，”她说。“我只能指导他们。”她还强调，不是每个人都能成为经纪人。“这是一个涉及到建立关系的领域，而不只是推产品，”她说。“如果你不喜欢和别人打交道，那这份工作或许并不适合你。”
The art of reaching out without seeming obnoxious was on the agenda one recent Tuesday when Ivana Tagliamonte, a Halstead broker who is receiving one-on-one coaching from Ms. Doherty, sat for her weekly session in an empty duplex on lower Second Avenue that she is showing to prospective buyers. “It’s going to be spring soon,” said Ms. Tagliamonte, 39, “and it’s a good time to have your ducks in order so you can do more pitching.”
上周二的课程安排，是主动亲近他人而不令他人反感的艺术，当时，哈尔斯泰德地产公司(Halstead)的经纪人、正一对一接受多尔蒂培训的伊凡娜·塔利亚蒙特(Ivana Tagliamonte)，在一套位于第二大道(Second Avenue)南端的复式公寓中，坐听每周一次的讲课，她正打算让有希望的买家来看看这套公寓。“很快就到春天了，”39岁的塔利亚蒙特说，“现在正是做准备工作的好时候，那样你才能多卖几套房子出去。”
Along with updating Ms. Doherty on her progress since their last session (“I try to call five people a day from my V.I.P. list, but I don’t always succeed”), Ms. Tagliamonte checked off the ways she is trying to reach out more energetically to prospective clients.
在向多尔蒂汇报上节课后她所取得的进步时（“我努力每天给VIP客户清单中的5名客户打电话，但并不是次次都很成功”），塔利亚蒙特还逐项检查了她主动亲近潜在客户的各种方式。