NEW YORK — Three Yorkshire terriers nestle in a man's arms on a train. A pug lounges on a bench. A chow chow on a leash mingles among commuters.
纽约——地铁上，三只约克夏犬依偎在一个男人怀里。哈巴狗懒洋洋躺在长椅上。用皮带拴住的松狮犬混入了乘客之中。
If you are a regular subway rider, chances are you are seeing more dogs these days, and they are often riding out in the open (or close to it), right alongside their owners.
如果你经常乘坐地铁，近来你有机会看到越来越多的狗。它们跟在主人身边，往往没有栓狗链（或者是几乎没有拴）。
Once rare, such sightings elicit coos and smiles from plenty of pet-friendly riders, but perhaps just as many steely glares from passengers who are perturbed by the intrusions.
这种以前很罕见的情况，现在能引起大量喜欢宠物的乘客的问候和微笑，但许多觉得受到骚扰的乘客，也会投来冰冷的目光。
The scofflaw pooches appear here and there on platforms and trains in plain sight, defying the rule that they must be in closed carriers of some sort and surfacing often enough on social media the instant the train is back in cell range.
藐视法律的狗在众目睽睽下出现在月台和地铁车厢各处，主人们罔顾必须把犬只放进某种封闭箱包携带的规定。在地铁返回有信号覆盖的区域的那一刻，它们经常就会跃上社交媒体。
When Hannah O'Keefe, 24, spotted the chow chow on an A train in Manhattan the day before Thanksgiving, she snapped a photo and posted it on Twitter to express gratitude for the chance encounter.
感恩节前一天，当24岁的汉娜·奥基夫(Hannah O’Keefe)在曼哈顿一列地铁上看到一只松狮犬时，她拍了一张照片并发表在Twitter上，来表达不期而遇的美好心情。
“If it's a cute dog, I'm like, `I know you're not supposed to be here, but I'm happy you're here,”' said O'Keefe, who lives in Brooklyn and works at a nonprofit.
奥基夫说道，“如果它是一只可爱的小狗，我会想，‘我知道你不应该出现在这里，但我很高兴你在这里’。”她住在布鲁克林，为一家非营利组织工作。
Unmistakable as the increase may be to daily riders, it is impossible to quantify how many dogs are riding the rails. Many pet-toting riders might never cross paths with a police officer. Or an officer, instead of issuing a summons, might ask the owner — and the dog — to leave the system.
对每天乘坐地铁的人来说，狗出现在地铁上的次数肯定是在增加，但现在到底有多少狗会乘坐地铁，并没有具体的数字。许多携带宠物的乘客可能根本不会被警务人员制止，又或者警务人员只会要求狗的主人带着狗一起离开地铁，而不是发出传票。
Only 219 riders were issued summonses last year for having unauthorized animals on subways and buses, down from 261 in 2014, according to the police.
据警方数据，去年只有219位乘客因未经许可将宠物带上地铁和公共汽车而收到了传票，比2014年的261人有所下降。
To put those totals in perspective, more than 75,000 summonses were issued across the transit system in 2015, for everything from fare evasion to seat obstruction.
与总体数字相对比，2015年整个公共交通系统共发出了超过7.5万张传票，原因各种各样，从逃票到霸占座位应有尽有。
Police dogs, of course, are not an unusual sight in the transit system, nor are service dogs, aiding people who are blind or otherwise disabled. But such animals are highly trained and generally accustomed to the underground environment.
当然，公交系统中警犬不是罕见的景象，帮助盲人和其他残疾人的导盲犬也不是。但是这些动物都训练有素，也习惯了地铁的环境。
The seemingly scant enforcement does not mean that dogs do not occasionally create headaches for subway officials. In November, a Rottweiler puppy escaped its leash and had to be rescued from the tracks by a subway worker. Last February, a dog had to be similarly extracted after ending up on the tracks near the Fordham Road station.
看似宽松的执法，并不意味着狗不会偶尔给地铁官员带来麻烦。11月，一只罗威纳幼犬挣脱了皮带，地铁工作人员不得不从轨道上将它救起来。去年2月，工作人员不得不用同样的方法，将一只在福德姆路站附近走上铁轨的狗拉了出来。
They are not the only pets to get into trouble. Two kittens wound up on the tracks in 2013, snarling service and inserting themselves into the mayoral race when Joseph J. Lhota, a Republican candidate and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's former chairman, said trains should have kept running (Lhota lost to Bill de Blasio). Another cat, this one named George, got onto the tracks at the Canal Street station in July, delaying dozens of trains.
它们不是唯一一种会惹麻烦的宠物。2013年两只小猫走到了地铁轨道上，扰乱了整个交通系统，并将自己卷入了市长选举中。当时共和党候选人和大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)的前主席约瑟夫·J·洛塔(Joseph J. Lhota)说，地铁不应为此停止运行——洛塔输给了白思豪(Bill de Blasio)。另一只名叫乔治(George)的猫，7月份时出现在坚尼路(Canal Street)站的轨道上，造成了几十个车次延误。
While most dogs prompt nothing more pointed than a stare from riders, they occasionally draw more aggressive displays of displeasure. In December, a man was arrested after he punched a pit bull therapy dog as well as the man who had brought the animal onto the No. 4 train. The assailant had asked the man to move the dog away from him, the police said.
尽管大多数狗不会引发让乘客瞪眼更尖锐的反应，但偶尔也会出现更为激进的不满反应。12月时，一名男子因为殴打一只用于心理治疗的比特犬，和将其带上4号线地铁的人而遭到了逮捕。警察说袭击者曾要求该名男子让狗离他远点。
The day-to-day commotion underground could seem overwhelming for dogs, but some appear to enjoy the adventure. Marnie the Dog, a celebrity Shih Tzu with nearly 2 million followers on Instagram, recently pranced through the subway on a leashless joy ride chronicled in a video posted online.
地铁里日复一日的喧嚣对狗来说往往难以承受，但有些狗似乎享受冒险。一只在Instagram上有近200万关注者的知名狮子狗玛尔妮(Marnie the Dog)，最近在没有拴皮带的情况下，神气活现地在地铁上兜了一圈，并且还被拍近了视频里，发到了网上。
Many riders claim to be unaware of the rules. Unlike signs that remind riders that smoking and moving between train cars are not allowed, the restrictions on dogs are not widely posted. On a No. 7 train from Manhattan to his home in Queens, Amaru Alzogaray, a dog walker, was transporting three Yorkshire terriers for which he regularly cares. A taxi ride could cost $60, he said.
许多乘客声称自己不知道这条规定。不像地铁上有提醒禁止吸烟和不得在车厢间走动的标志，对狗的限制标志还没有广泛张贴。阿马鲁·奥佐加雷(Amaru Alzogaray)是一位遛狗者，他会带着经常照看的3只约克夏犬乘坐7号线，从曼哈顿到其位于皇后区家中。乘坐出租车要花费60美元，他说。
“I didn't know that you had to have them inside a bag,” he said. “I thought only that they have to be well-behaved and not dangerous to other people.”
“我不知道必须把它们装进袋子里，”他说。“我只觉得它们必须乖巧，不对其他人造成危险。”
To some, bringing a dog onto the subway is not unlike manspreading or nail-clipping. They say it should be similarly scorned by subway officials and included in the current campaign for improved subway etiquette.
对一些人来说，携犬乘坐地铁跟叉开双腿多占座位或修剪指甲没什么不同。他们说，这些行为应该同样受到地铁官员的劝导，并纳入当前改善地铁礼仪的活动中。
Mariel Conway, 28, was miffed last year when she saw a dog taking up two subway seats while an older rider was left standing nearby.
去年，28岁的马里埃尔·康威(Mariel Conway)看到一只狗占了两个座位，而一位老年乘客只能在旁边站着，于是她变得有点恼火。
“This guy was just letting the dog spread out, which during rush hour was really annoying,” said Conway, who works in the entertainment industry.
“这家伙就让狗摊开趴着，在高峰时段这真的很烦人，”在娱乐行业工作的康威说道。
Riders with unauthorized animals can face a $25 fine, lower than the penalty for smoking ($50) or fare evasion ($100). If a dog poses a “direct threat” to other passengers, the animal and the owner can be ejected from the system.
未经授权携带动物乘坐地铁的乘客可能面临25美元的罚款，比吸烟（50美元）或逃票（100美元）的罚款要低。如果狗对其他乘客构成“直接威胁”，动物及其主人将被从公交系统中驱逐出去。
Chris Cerritelli, 25, knows he is breaking the rules. On jaunts to Central Park and the Brooklyn waterfront with his boxer Mister, friendly riders say hello and ask to pet the dog. He has been stopped by an officer just once, he said, and he thinks the police are right to focus on other matters.
25岁的克里斯·塞瑞特里(Chris Cerritelli)明白自己违反了规定。在带着他的拳师犬米斯特(Mister)前往中央公园和布鲁克林海滨的短途旅行中，友好的乘客跟过来打招呼，并要求抚弄他的宠物狗。他说他只被警察截停过一次，而且他认为警方专注于其他事务才是正确的。
“It shouldn't be their priority — they have a hundred thousand other things to worry about,” said Cerritelli, a furniture designer.
“这不应该是他们的优先处理事项——他们有无数其他的事情要操心，”家具设计师塞瑞特里说。
Marie Leger came across an unusual sight on the subway last year: a dog riding on a seat near a cat that was wandering the aisle, both with the same family. Riders did not bat an eye as the cat rubbed up against passengers' legs. Leger, 42, a dermatologist, said she often sees dogs riding the subway outside carriers.
玛丽·莱杰(Marie Leger)去年在地铁上看到了一个不寻常的景象：座位上趴着一只狗，附近还有一只猫在走道上徘徊；它们属于同一家人。当猫擦着乘客的腿来回走动时，乘客甚至连眼都没眨一下。42岁的莱杰是一名皮肤科医生，她说经常会看到没有装入携带器具的狗乘坐地铁。
“I usually find it charming,” she said, “but if the whole subway was full of misbehaving animals, I probably wouldn't be so delighted.”
“通常我会觉得这很有趣，”她说，“但如果整个地铁满是上窜下跳的动物，我可能就不会这么高兴了。”