Brows that wowed
惊人的眉毛
The front row is usually abuzz with less-than-salacious chatter: industry gossip, editorial deadlines, how tired everyone feels. But every now and then something comes down the runway that’s so shocking that the fashion set can’t stop talking about it. This season? The incredible pierced eyebrows at Rodarte.
秀场前排通常充斥着不那么刺激的闲聊：业界八卦、截稿日期、大家都很疲惫之类，但是秀台上不时也会出现惊人的东西，让整个时尚圈都谈论不休。这一季的话题是罗达特(Rodarte)不可思议的眉环。
A canine on the catwalk
秀台上遛狗
And at Hood by Air, someone walked a dog . . . down the runway. The (very large) Great Dane sparked as much conversation as did the Lucite collars around the models’ necks.
Hood by Air的秀场有人遛狗……而且是在秀台上。这只体型硕大的大丹狗和模特们脖子上戴的透明树脂项圈都引发了不少话题。
High-tech touches
高科技
Designers upped the technological ante at fashion shows this past week. Samsung’s Gear S smartwatches on the Diesel Black Gold runway were small potatoes compared to Ralph Lauren’s 4-D holographic, virtual runway, projected over a pond in Central Park. The fashion show as we know it has been changed forever.
上周的秀场上，设计师们在科技方面投下了赌注。迪赛黑金(Diesel Black Gold)的走秀中使用了三星的Gear S智能手表，不过和拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)相比就远远不如了。拉夫·劳伦在中央公园的秀场上采用4-D全息技术，把虚拟秀台投影在一处池塘上，从此刷新了我们所熟悉的走秀概念。
Little pink house
小粉红房子
Marc Jacobs’s last-minute change of time and venue left everyone wondering what elaborate set he would be constructing this season. Lo and behold, as his guests entered the Park Avenue Armory, they discovered a surprisingly suburban setting — an oversize house surrounded by gravel — in a decidedly ostentatious shade of pink. The bright image dominated Instagram streams for the remainder of the evening.
马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)到最后时刻才改变走秀的时间和地点，所有人都在猜测，这一季他精心设计的秀场布置会是什么样子。睁大眼睛看吧，当宾客们走进他在公园大道军械库的秀场，便发现一个令人惊讶的城郊风情布置——一栋大号房子，有着非常招摇的粉红色调，周围环绕着灌木。当天晚上，这个明丽的形象传遍整个Instagram。
Chloë serves up lunch
克洛伊提供午餐
The designer-actress Chloë Sevigny loves a performance. But this season, it was the delicious lunch at the presentation of her Opening Ceremony collection — three courses catered by Roberta’s (a Brooklyn pizza joint), including heirloom-tomato-and-burrata panzanella — that stole the show. The combination of fashion and food was a warm welcome to tired editors on the last day of Fashion Week.
设计师兼演员克洛伊·塞维尼(Chloë Sevigny)喜欢表演。但是这一季，她的“开幕式”(Open Ceremony)时装发布会上，却是美味的午餐抢尽了风头。这顿饭由布鲁克林披萨店罗伯塔(Roberta’s)提供，有三道主菜，包括祖传西红柿与巴雷塔奶酪意式面包沙拉。那天是时装周的最后一天，对于疲惫的编辑们来说，时尚与美食的结合大受欢迎。
All fashion week’s a stage
时装周上的舞台剧
And another buzzy Opening Ceremony presentation: the label’s designers, Humberto Leon and Carol Kim, put on a one-act play written by Spike Jonze and Jonah Hill. Elle Fanning, Bobby Cannavale, Catherine Keener, John Cameron Mitchell and Dree Hemingway delivered a funny and touching (if not universally admired) performance, complete with a musical number (Drake’s “Hold On, We’re Going Home”).
“开幕式”还有另一场热闹的发布会：品牌设计师休伯托·里昂(Humberto Leon)和卡罗尔·基姆(Carol Kim)把一部斯佩克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)和乔纳·希尔(Jonah Hill)撰写的独幕剧搬上了舞台。参演的有埃拉·范宁(Elle Fanning)、鲍比·坎纳瓦尔(Bobby Cannavale)、凯瑟琳娜·基纳(Catherine Keener)、约翰·卡梅隆·米歇尔(John Cameron Mitchell)和德里·海明威(Dree Hemingway)。该剧虽然并非人人喜欢，但也非常精彩感人，最后以德雷克(Drake)的一曲《坚持住，我们回家了》(Hold On, We’re Going Home)告终。
Stores galore
好多门店
It wouldn’t be Fashion Week without store openings, and New Yorkers celebrated many this season. The first to open its doors was Trademark in SoHo, a highly anticipated brick-and-mortar toasted by the likes of Mary-Kate Olsen and the Proenza Schouler boys. Next and further uptown was Phillip Lim’s new flagship in NoHo, followed by the Tod’s reopening on Madison Avenue.
没有门店开幕式还算什么时装周，这一季纽约就迎来了不少新门店。第一家开张的是“商标”(Trademark)在苏活区的门店，它用砖块和灰泥建造而成，备受期待，玛丽-凯特·奥尔森(Mary Kate Olsen)和普罗恩萨-施罗(Proenza Schouler)的两位设计师都表示了祝贺。接下来开张的店在更靠近上城的地方，是林能平(Philip Lim)在NoHo区的旗舰店。然后是托德斯(Tod’s)在麦迪逊大街重开的门店。
A buzzy bistro
时髦小餐馆
Did anyone even eat this week? The New York schedule is always so jam-packed that the fashion set looks forward to the London/Milan/Paris circuit for its long, leisurely lunches. This week, though, editors were at least talking about making a pit stop at the new bistro on the block: Cherche Midi, which fills the French-dining void left by the closing of Pastis earlier this year.
这星期有人好好吃过饭吗？纽约时装周的安排总是那么满满当当的，时尚界人士们都盼着伦敦、米兰和巴黎时装周赶快到来，好去享用那些地方漫长闲适的午餐。不过这个星期，编辑们都说要去城里新开张的小餐馆“Cherche Midi”歇歇脚， 它正好填补了今年年初Pastis餐馆关门后出现的法国菜空白。
Pop stars on parade
流行歌星成群结队
It seemed like every party this week featured a big-name musical artist. From Iggy Azalea and Rita Ora at Calvin Klein’s fragrance launch party to Jillian Banks at the Phillip Lim store opening to St. Vincent at the Versus after-party, social media platforms felt more like an MTV Top-10 video roundup than a Fashion Week feed.
这星期所有派对里似乎都有音乐界的大人物出现。从凯文·克莱因(Calvin Klein)香氛发布会上的伊基·阿泽莉亚(Iggy Azalea)和瑞塔·奥拉(Rita Ora)，到林能平门店开张仪式上的吉莉安·班克斯(Jillian Banks)，再到范瑟丝(Versus)庆功派对上的圣文森特(St. Vincent)，看社交媒体平台的感觉不像时装周的消息报道，倒像是MTV十大音乐录像综述。
RiRi makes the rounds
蕾小姐四处走动
Last season in Paris, it was hard to go to a show without seeing Rihanna in the front row. The same thing happened again this season in New York. Her appearances at shows like Edun, Alexander Wang, Altuzarra and Adam Selman meant for multiple outfit changes, which monopolized street style coverage. Miss RiRi is either a total fashion addict or gunning for a market director job at a glossy title.
上一季在巴黎，几乎每场秀的前排都能看到蕾哈娜(Rihanna)的身影。这一季的纽约也是如此。她出现在Edun、王大仁(Alexander Wang)、奥图扎拉(Altuzarra)和亚当·塞尔曼(Adam Selman)等品牌的秀场，意味着她要换很多行头，而且垄断了街拍报道。蕾小姐不是对时装上瘾，就是想拼命找份光鲜的市场经理工作。