He arrived in the United States in 1988, an uneducated 21-year-old from rural Fujian Province, China. With the help of smugglers he made his way to Chinatown in Lower Manhattan, found work in a variety of restaurants and, in time, managed to get a green card.
王先生1988年到达美国时，是一个没有受过教育的21岁年轻人，来自中国福建省农村。在蛇头的帮助下，他辗转来到曼哈顿下城的唐人街，在很多餐馆打过工，日子久了，他也设法拿到了绿卡。
Within the next several years, the man, Mr. Wang, was joined in New York by numerous relatives: cousins, uncles and aunts. Some came on family-related visas, others sneaked in, and still others were given asylum. There were marriages and children, the roots of the family tree pushing deeper into American soil. His extended family in the United States now numbers in the scores, many of them living in the Chinese enclaves of New York City.
接下来的几年里，王先生的大批亲戚来到了纽约，有表兄弟、叔叔，还有阿姨。有些人是申请了家庭团聚签证，有些人是偷渡来的，还有些人获得了庇护。随着他们中的一些人结婚生子，这个家族的根也更深地扎进了美国的土壤。现在，王先生在美国有好几十个亲戚，其中很多都住在纽约市的中国飞地。
“I can’t count how many there are,” said Mr. Wang, who now lives in Flushing, Queens, and tends a wok in a Chinese restaurant. He requested that his full name not be used because of his immigration history.
“具体有多少人我说不上来，”王先生现在住在皇后区的法拉盛，在一家中国餐馆掌勺。由于移民经历的问题，他不希望登出自己的全名。
The migratory experience of the Wang family is part of a larger narrative that is transforming the city: the tremendous growth of the Chinese population over the past several decades. Now the second-largest foreign-born group in the city, Chinese are on the verge of overtaking immigrants from the Dominican Republic for the top spot.
王家的移民经历折射了一个正在重塑纽约市的趋势：过去几十年里，这座城市的中国人口出现了巨大增长。在纽约的外国出生人口群体中，中国人数量目前排在第二位，跟居首位的多米尼加共和国(Dominican Republic)移民已经相差无几。
The evolution of the Chinese diaspora is one of the stories of New York explored in a new report by the City Planning Department that provides a detailed statistical analysis of the city’s ever-shifting immigrant population, charting where the most recent arrivals have come from, where they have settled, the jobs they have taken and their effects on the economy.
纽约城市规划局(City Planning Department)发布的一份新报告讲述了一些事实，其中之一就是中国海外侨民的发展。这份报告对纽约市不断变化的移民人口进行了详尽的统计分析，并用图表显示了最新的移民来自哪里，定居在纽约哪些区域，从事什么样的工作，以及对经济的影响。
Called The Newest New Yorkers, the 235-page report is the fifth edition of a study first released in 1992. It is intended as a reference for policy makers, planners and service providers, its authors said, “to help them gain perspective on a population that continues to reshape the city.”
这份报告名为《最新纽约人》(Newest New Yorkers)，长235页，是1992年首次发布这种报告以来的第五版。该报告的撰写者说，其目的是给决策者、规划者和服务供应商提供参考，“帮助他们获得一个视角，即不断重塑这个城市的人口的视角”。
Now numbering about 3.1 million — a record high — the city’s immigrant population, about 37 percent of the overall population of 8.2 million New Yorkers, is more kaleidoscopic than ever, in large part a result of the passage of 1965 immigration legislation that allowed more people to come from Africa, Asia, the Caribbean and Latin America. In a city that once had a population of predominantly European origin, there is now no dominant racial, ethnic or nationality group.
目前纽约市的移民人口数量创下了历史新高，约为310万，占820万总人口的37％左右，而且比以往任何时候都更加变化多端。从很大程度上说，这是1965年颁布的移民法的结果，该法律导致更多来自非洲、亚洲、加勒比海地区和拉丁美洲的移民。欧洲曾经是纽约市的人口主要来源，现在该市已经没有哪个种族、民族或来源国籍群体占据主导地位。
“New York arguably boasts the most diverse population of any major city in the world because of the flow of immigrants from across the globe,” the report said.
“在全球所有主要城市中，纽约可以说是人口最多样化的城市，这是全球各地移民流入该市的结果，”该报告称。
This arrival of immigrants in the past four decades has helped to bolster the city’s economy and usher in “an era of renewal and growth” after the economic slump in the 1970s that saw the loss of 10 percent of the general population, noted the report, which was written by Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division of the City Planning Department, and Arun Peter Lobo, the division’s deputy director.
1970年代的经济衰退导致纽约总人口流失10％，之后40年中，移民的到来推助了纽约经济的发展，帮助它进入了“重建和发展的时代”，《最新纽约人》称。该报告的两位作者是城市规划局人口部的主任约瑟夫·萨尔沃(Joseph J. Salvo)和副主任阿伦·彼得·路博(Arun Peter Lobo)。
Dominicans have made up the city’s largest immigrant group since 1990 and currently number about 380,200 residents. But Chinese, who have held the No. 2 spot for that period, are close behind, with 350,200. While the Dominican population has grown about 3 percent in the past decade, the Chinese population has grown 34 percent. China was also the single largest source of legally admitted immigrants in New York City from 2002 to 2011, with more than 40 percent of them granted asylum, said the report, which was largely based on Census Bureau data as well other federal and city administrative data.
自1990年以来，多米尼加就是纽约市最大的移民群体，目前人数大约为380200人。紧随其后的是中国人，在这段时间内人口数量位居第二，有350200人。多米尼加移民在过去十年的增长率为3％，中国移民增长率为34％。中国也是2002年到2011年间，纽约市合法接收的移民的最大来源，其中逾40％获得了庇护，这份报告称。它的依据主要是人口普查局的数据，以及联邦和城市的其他管理数据。
“China seems to be surging,” Mr. Salvo said. The data, he added, “points to China ultimately becoming the largest source of immigrants to New York.”
“中国人的数量似乎正在激增，”萨尔沃说。他说这些数据“表示中国最终将成为纽约市的最大移民来源”。
Still, the rate of growth among Chinese pales in comparison with the growing number of Mexicans. In the past decade, the Mexican population has surged by 52 percent, the largest spurt of any group among the 10 largest immigrant groups in the city, pushing Mexicans over Guyanese and Jamaicans and moving them into third place. They now number about 186,000.
不过，跟墨西哥移民的增长幅度相比，中国人就相形见绌了。在过去十年中，墨西哥人口的数量激增了52％，是纽约10大移民群体中增幅最大的，墨西哥人口数量也超过圭亚那和牙买加，升至第三位。现在纽约市约有186000名墨西哥人。
Ecuador, Haiti, India, Russia, Tobago and Trinidad rounded out the top 10 countries of origin.
厄瓜多尔、海地、印度、俄罗斯、多巴哥和特立尼达，也位居前10位之内。
Queens and Brooklyn continued to support the biggest and most highly concentrated immigrant populations, yet the Bronx and Staten Island had a surge in foreign-born residents in recent years. From 2000 to 2011, the Bronx’s foreign-born population increased by about 85,300, the largest growth of any borough, while Staten Island’s immigrant population grew 36 percent, the largest percentage increase of any borough.
皇后区和布鲁克林仍然是移民人口最多、最集中的地方，但近年来，布朗克斯和斯塔滕岛的外国出生居民也出现了激增。从2000年到2011年，布朗克斯的外国出生居民人口大约增加了85300名，是所有行政区中数量增加最多的，而斯塔滕岛移民人口增长了36％，是所有行政区中增幅最大的。
Queens has the most immigrants of any borough, with 1.09 million, or nearly half of its residents; Brooklyn followed with 946,500 — or 37 percent of the borough’s overall population — with nearly half of them living in neighborhoods straddling the B/Q and N subway lines, which swoop in a vague U-shape through the western and southern reaches of the borough.
在纽约所有行政区中，皇后区的移民是最多的，为109万，接近该区全部居民的一半；布鲁克林位居第二，移民数量为946500人，占该区总人口的37％——其中将近一半人住在B/Q和N地铁线的两侧。这些地铁线通过布鲁克林的西部和南部，大致呈U形。
Bensonhurst, located along that arc, emerged in the past decade as the neighborhood with the second-largest immigrant population in the city, behind Washington Heights in Manhattan and ahead of Elmhurst in Queens. But Bushwick, in the northern part of Brooklyn, far from those subway lines, experienced the highest growth rate, with its immigrant population increasing by 21 percent. (The demographers also noted that this surge occurred in parallel with an increase in migration to the neighborhood among the native-born from elsewhere in the country.)
位于该沿弧线上的本森赫斯特(Bensonhurst)，是过去十年中纽约第二大的移民社区，仅次于曼哈顿的华盛顿高地，位居第三的是皇后区的艾姆赫斯特(Elmhurst)。但是布鲁克林北部远离B/Q和N地铁线的布什克(Bushwick)，却拥有21％的最高移民增长率。（这些人口统计学家还指出，与此同时，从美国其他地方迁居到纽约的居民中，入住布什克社区的人也增多了。）
As for the immigrants’ effects on the city’s economy, the demographers said, the foreign-born make up 47 percent of all employed residents and are disproportionately represented among those who start new businesses, “providing a continuous injection of economic vitality” and driving demand for housing.
至于移民对纽约的经济影响，这些人口统计学家说，外国出生的移民占了从业居民的47％，在创业者中的比例格外大，“源源不断地给经济注入了活力”，并推动了住房需求。
“If history is any indication,” the report said, “the economic opportunities in New York will continue to sustain its immigrant flow.”
“从历史趋势来看，”该报告称，“纽约的经济机会将继续为移民流提供支撑。”