One of the 21st century’s great wonders, the Metropolitan Museum of Art contains an incomparable collection of humanity’s greatest accomplishments — spanning 6,000 years and the entire globe. Where else can you see the inside of an Egyptian tomb, a full set of Japanese armor and a room of Renaissance paintings in one day? Don't be overwhelmed by the Met's offerings; we'll guide you on your journey through the museum.
作为二十一世纪奇迹之一，大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)拥有一个无与伦比的人类伟大成就收藏——涵盖全球，时间跨度6000年。还有什么地方可以让你在同一天里看到一座埃及陵墓，一套完整的日本盔甲，以及摆满整个展厅的文艺复兴时期绘画？别被大都会奉上的浩瀚收藏吓懵了，让我们来引导您浏览全馆。
The Five Must-Sees
五个不可错过的看点
You can — and should — wander through the galleries of the Met, but these rooms are great places to start.
你可以——也应该——在大都会各展厅里闲逛，但是有几处地方是最佳的入手点。
SPLENDOR WORTHY OF A ROMAN EMPEROR
罗马帝王的奢华
The Greek and Roman Sculpture Court | Gallery 162
希腊和罗马雕塑厅 | 162号展厅
This exquisite two-story hall is the main showroom for the museum’s deep collection of Greek and Roman art, which fills surrounding rooms as well. The collection is packed with objects from the farthest reaches of these civilizations, from the Mediterranean and beyond.
这座精美的两层展厅是该馆的高水平希腊和罗马艺术收藏的主要展出地，周边的一些展厅还有众多同类展品。收藏中包含大量来自这两个文明的最边远地区，范围涵盖地中海地区以及其他地方。
Why It’s Must See: Many of the statues on display here were intended to fill ancient gardens to create delight and comfort. They accomplish the same things here.
为什么不可错过：在这里展出的许多雕像，原本是摆放在古代花园里的怡情、逗趣之物。它们在这里实现了同样的效果。
What to Look For: Find a bench close to the fountain, take a deep breath and take it all in. If you’re lucky, you can sit right next to the statue of the three Graces, the embodiments of beauty, mirth and abundance.
看点：在喷泉附近找一张凳子坐下，沉下心，感受整个环境。运气好的话，你也许能坐在代表真善美的美惠三女神雕像旁。
Nearby: The mezzanine above the sculpture court, Gallery 170, holds a nearly complete Etruscan chariot that was unearthed in a farmer’s field in 1902.
附近：雕塑厅楼上夹层的170号展厅，有一套几乎完整的伊特鲁里亚战车，1902年出土于一片农田。
14 PERCENT OF THE WORLD’S SURVIVING VERMEER PAINTINGS
弗美尔存世真迹
The Vermeer Collection | Gallery 632
弗美尔收藏 | 632号展厅
Only 36 paintings by Johannes Vermeer are known to survive, and the Met has five of them.
目前已知幸存于世的约翰尼斯·弗美尔(Johannes Vermeer)画作仅36幅，其中五幅在大都会。
Why It’s Must See: Vermeer is treasured as a master of light, and as a sensitive observer of domestic life — a rare focus for a 17th-century artist.
为什么不可错过：弗美尔被誉为“光影大师”，也是家居生活的敏锐观察者——这在17世纪绘画中是一种少见的趣味。
What to Look For: Many of Vermeer’s works fill the canvas with evocative details that widen the scope of the paintings. In “Young Woman With a Water Pitcher,” look for the beautiful Turkish carpet on the table. Notice how the light streaming through the window is muted or flaring across the picture.
看点：弗美尔的许多作品在画布上布满了引人遐思的细节，令画作的视野豁然开朗。在《持水壶的女人》(Young Woman With a Water Pitcher)中，留心桌上那张美丽的土耳其毯。注意透过窗户而入的光线何其柔和，又是如何挥洒于整个画面。
Nearby: A few steps away, in Galleries 634 and 637, you can dive deep into works by two other titans of Dutch painting: Rembrandt and Frans Hals.
附近：几步开外就是634和637号展厅，可以细品两位荷兰绘画巨匠：伦布朗和弗兰斯·哈尔斯。
THE MET’S RICHEST COLLECTION OF NON-WESTERN ART
大都会最丰富的非西方艺术收藏
Asian Art Collection | Start in Gallery 206
亚洲艺术收藏 | 从206号展厅开始
Give yourself at least half an hour to work your way through this extensive collection. Start with the 14th-century Chinese mural that rises up 25 feet (7.5 meters) and then wander through the galleries devoted to South and Southeast Asia. Don’t miss the small mezzanine galleries — treasures abound.
给自己至少半个小时的时间欣赏这批丰富的藏品。从高达7.5米的14世纪中国壁画开始，然后再逛逛专门展出南亚和东南亚藏品的那些展厅。别错过位于夹层的小展厅，那里有大量珍品。
Why It’s Must See: The 2nd-floor galleries showcasing this collection may be the most underappreciated part of the museum. 
为什么不可错过：展出这些藏品的二楼展厅，也许是大都会最被低估的地方。
What to Look For: In these rooms, which are rarely crowded, you can trace particular images — portrayals of Buddha, for example — across the many cultures of Asia and thousands of years.
看点：这些展厅很少人流拥挤。在这里，你可以追溯特定的形象，比如佛陀的画像，数千年间在亚洲很多文化中的发展演变。
Nearby: The American sculptor Isamu Noguchi created the stately fountain called “Water Stone,” one of his last major works, specifically for Gallery 229. Grab a seat nearby, if you can, to relax and enjoy it.
附近：美国雕塑家野口勇(Isamu Noguchi)创作了宏伟的喷泉雕塑“水石”(Water Stone)。这是他最后的主要作品之一，是特意为229号展厅所作。可以的话，在附近找个座位放松一下，同时欣赏这件作品。
IMMERSE YOURSELF IN A GOLDEN AGE OF EUROPEAN PAINTING
沉浸在欧洲绘画的黄金时代
An Impressionist Treasury | Gallery 826
印象派宝库 | 826号展厅
Among the Met’s greatest collections are the works presented in its galleries of 19th- and early-20th-century European paintings and sculpture. In Gallery 825 are 10 works by Vincent van Gogh, with another seven next door in Gallery 822.
大都会最伟大的收藏包括19世纪和20世纪初期的欧洲绘画和雕塑。825号展厅里有文森特·梵高(Vincent van Gogh)的10幅作品，隔壁的822号展厅里还有七幅。
Why It’s Must See: Van Gogh’s style changed rapidly during his short career, and you can see the transformation clearly in these paintings.
为什么不可错过：梵高的风格在他短暂的职业生涯中变得很快，在这些画作中，你能清楚地看到这种变化。
What to Look For: In the early paintings, van Gogh portrays rural life in gloomy tones, focusing on the coarse reality of his subjects. Later, after he spent two years in Paris where he saw the work of Impressionists and Neo-Impressionists, his work experienced a turning point, leading him toward lighter colors and the stark brushstrokes that became his signature.
看点：在早期的作品中，梵高用阴郁的色调描绘乡村生活，重点在表现对象粗砺的真实特征上。后来，在巴黎待了两年，并在那里看到印象派和新印象派画家的作品后，他的作品经历了一个转折点，引领他转向更浅的色彩和不加修饰的笔触。它们成了他的标志。
Nearby: The surrounding rooms are filled with work by other masters like Monet, Degas, Cézanne, Picasso and many more.
附近：周围展厅展出的是其他大师的作品，如莫奈、德加、塞尚、毕加索等。
THE ONLY COMPLETE EGYPTIAN TEMPLE IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE
西半球唯一一座完整的埃及神庙
The Temple of Dendur | Gallery 131
丹铎神庙 | 131号展厅
Built more than 2000 years ago on the banks of the Nile, The Temple of Dendur was disassembled and given to the United States when the original site was flooded by a dam project. The soaring gallery was built specifically to accommodate the temple. It is one of the most popular rooms in the museum.
2000多年前，丹铎神庙矗立在尼罗河畔。当一个水坝项目导致原址被淹后，神庙被拆散并赠送给美国。高耸的展厅是特意为容纳这座神庙而建的。这里是大都会最受欢迎的展厅之一。
Why It’s Must See: This stunning installation is always filled with visitors, and for an excellent reason: you haven’t seen anything like this before. It’s worth your time to wait in line for a chance to walk through.
为什么不可错过：这栋令人惊叹的构造中总是挤满了访客，理由很充分：你从没有见过这样的东西，值得你排队等待，只为能够穿堂而过。
What to Look For: The carvings on the temple’s exterior mimic the natural world. Papyrus and lotus plants can be found at the base, rising up toward the sun and the wings of the sky god, Horus.
看点：寺庙外部的雕刻模仿了自然世界。基座上可以找到纸莎草和莲花，向着太阳与天空之神荷鲁斯的双翼生长。
Off The Beaten Path
人迹罕至之处
Hungry for more? These four galleries contain lesser-known treasures in quieter spaces.
还想看更多？这四个展厅较为安静，藏有鲜为人知的珍宝。
Arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas | Gallery 354 
非洲、大洋洲和美洲的艺术|354号展厅
We’re not sure why this gallery isn’t more popular: You’ll see some of the most exquisite works of art from four continents. They include astonishing pieces of intricate gold from pre-Columbian South America (Gallery 357), arresting works from African cultures (Gallery 352), and a flowing aluminum-and-wire sculpture made for the museum by the Ghanaian artist El Anatsui in 2006 (Gallery 350).
我们不知道这个展厅为什么没有受到更多关注：在这里，你可以看到来自四个大洲的诸多精妙艺术品。他们包括来自前哥伦布时期的南美洲（357号展厅）极为精致的金器，迷人的非洲文化展品（352号展厅）和一个由加纳艺术家艾尔·安纳苏伊(El Anatsui)于2006年为博物馆特制的线条流畅的雕塑，由铝和金属线制成（350号展厅）。
The American Wing | Gallery 760 
美国部分 | 760号展厅
Here you can find one of the best-known images in American art, Emanuel Leutze’s 1851 “Washington Crossing the Delaware,” which towers over visitors. The surrounding galleries are a bit of a hodgepodge, but Gallery 771 holds John Singer Sargent’s scandalous portrait, “Madame X (Madame Pierre Gautreau)” — the original version, with a strap of Madame X’s gown falling off her shoulder, caused such an uproar that Sargent repainted it.
在这里，你可以找到美国艺术中最著名的肖像之一，埃玛纽埃尔·洛伊茨(Emanuel Leutze)1851年的《华盛顿穿越特拉华》(Washington Crossing the Delaware)，从高处俯瞰着游客。周围的展厅有点像大杂烩，但771展厅拥有约翰·辛格·萨金特(John Singer Sargent)惊世骇俗的肖像画，《X夫人（皮埃尔·古特劳夫人）》(Madame X [Madame Pierre Gautreau]) ——在原始版本里，X夫人的礼服有一根肩带从肩头滑落下来，激起一片喧哗之声，导致萨金特重画了这幅画。
Islamic Art | Gallery 461 
伊斯兰艺术 | 461号展厅
The works in these galleries show the connections and distinctions among the Arabian peninsula, Turkey, and Central and South Asia. Looking for a change of pace? Head to Gallery 461, where there’s a fully installed 18th-century interior from the Ottoman Empire, known as the Damascus Room. 
这些展厅的作品展示了阿拉伯半岛、土耳其和中亚以及南亚之间的联系和区别。寻找节奏的变化？前往461号展厅，那里有一个完全安装好的18世纪奥斯曼帝国室内景观，被称为大马士革室。
Modern and Contemporary Art | Gallery 915 
现代与当代艺术 | 915号展厅
The Met has faced criticism at times for paying insufficient attention to the art of the present, but these galleries are quite rich. Jackson Pollock’s enormous “Autumn Rhythm (Number 30)” is in Gallery 901. Wander back toward the staircase to get to the impressive mezzanine, Gallery 915, where there are benches to rest on as you gaze at the collection. 
大都会艺术博物馆有时会被批评为对当下的艺术没有给予足够关注，但这些画廊是相当丰富的。杰克逊·波洛克(Jackson Pollock)巨大的《秋日节奏（30号）》(Autumn Rhythm [Number 30])陈列在901展厅。走回楼梯时可以去庞大的楼梯夹层，那里的915展厅内有长凳，可供你一边观赏展品一边休息。
Amazing Spaces
惊人的空间
While admiring thousands of paintings, tapestries and sculptures, don't forget to look around you. The Met itself is a work of art.
欣赏成千上万的绘画、挂毯和雕塑之时，也不要忘记环顾四周。大都会艺术博物馆本身就是一件艺术品。
THE AMERICAN WING COURT | GALLERY 700
美国翼庭院 | 700号展厅
There are dozens of monumental artworks inside the soaring glass-enclosed American Wing court, Gallery 700, from an 8 foot (2.6 meter) bronze sculpture of Diana to the entire facade of a former Wall Street bank. But the details, like leaded glass windows by Louis Comfort Tiffany, are exquisite, too.
高高的以玻璃包覆的美国翼庭院中，陈列着数十件大型艺术品，从8英尺（2.6米）高的黛安娜(Diana)青铜塑像，到从前的一家华尔街银行的整个外立面。但其细节，譬如由路易斯·康福特·蒂芙尼(Louis Comfort Tiffany)打造的铅框玻璃窗，也十分精致。
THE EUROPEAN SCULPTURE COURT | GALLERY 548
欧洲雕塑庭院 | 548号展厅
The European sculpture court, Gallery 548, is filled with French and Italian works from the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Designed in the symmetrical style of a French garden, this grand space ends with a wall of windows facing Central Park, where the 69 foot (21 meter) obelisk known as Cleopatra’s Needle stands.
欧洲雕塑庭院，也就是548号展厅里，满是来自17、18、19世纪的法国及意大利艺术品。这个宏大空间在设计上采用的是法式花园的对称风格，在其尽头，一整面墙的窗户正对着中央公园，名为“克里奥帕特拉之针”(Cleopatra’s Needle)的69英尺（21米）高的方尖碑就伫立在那里。
THE ASTOR COURT | GALLERY 217
阿斯特庭院 | 217号展厅
This tranquil, reflective space was built in the style of a Ming dynasty scholar’s courtyard. All of the components, from the windows to the burbling fountain to the intricate rock assemblages, are intended to work in harmony, and help inspire thought. 
这个静思空间是仿造一个明代的文人庭院而建。它的各个构成元素，从窗户到喷泉再到精巧堆叠的岩石，都浑然融为一体，有助于激发思考。
ART OF OCEANIA | GALLERY 354
大洋洲艺术厅 | 354号展厅
The undulating ceiling in Gallery 354 is composed of more than 270 individual paintings, made especially for the Met. The display of funeral sculptures, known as Bis poles, created by the Asmat people of Indonesia — each one carved from a whole tree — seems almost small by comparison.
354号展厅的天花板起伏有致，由专为大都会博物馆定制的270余幅画作构成。相较之下，在此展出的比斯杆几乎可以用小小不言来形容。比斯杆是出自印度尼西亚阿斯玛特人之手的葬礼雕塑，每一根都是由一整棵树雕刻而成。
THE GREAT HALL
大厅
Don’t forget to stop and enjoy the entryway to the Met on your way to see the rest of the museum. The best view of the Great Hall is from the balcony, where you can rise above the clamor to enjoy the grandeur of this incredible public space. Watching the ceaseless parade of people coming through the doors, so eager and curious, is a reliable way to recalibrate after a lot of art-looking.
前去参观博物馆其余地方的途中，别忘记在门厅处停下来欣赏一番。环视大厅的最佳位置是楼厅，可以高高在上、远离喧嚣，细细品味这个美妙公共空间的宏伟壮观。在看过太多艺术品之后，瞧着人们带着如此急切和好奇的神气不断从门口鱼贯而入，不失为一种调整自身状态的好方法。
INTIMATE TREASURES
私密宝藏
Jain Temple | Gallery 243 
耆那教寺庙 | 243号展厅
Tucked away in Gallery 243 is an intricately carved wooden dome and balcony that were part of a 16th-century Jain temple in Gujarat, India. Take a moment to study it closely.
隐藏在243号展厅里的雕工复杂的木质穹顶和阳台，以前是印度古吉拉特邦一座耆那教寺庙的组成部分。花些时间仔细研究一下吧。
Winged Bull | Gallery 401 
翼牛 | 401号展厅
Among the signature items in the Met’s collection are the human-headed winged bull and winged lion that guard the entrance to Gallery 401. In the 9th century B.C., they protected the palace of an Assyrian king.
陈列在401号展厅入口处的人首翼牛和翼狮均在大都会博物馆的标志性藏品之列。公元前9世纪的时候，它们守护的是亚述王的宫殿。
Studiolo | Gallery 501 
书房 | 501号展厅
More than 500 years ago, craftsmen working for an Italian duke built this extraordinary study, or Studiolo, now installed in Gallery 501. The optical illusion of a fully-furnished room is impressive; but what’s truly astonishing is that these walls aren’t painted. It’s exquisitely detailed woodwork.
500多年前，为一位意大利公爵工作的工匠们建造了这间不同凡响的书房，它目前被安放在501展厅内。一个精装修房间创造出的光学幻象让人印象深刻；但真正令人惊叹的是，这些墙壁上可没有壁画。它是做工精致的木制品。
Cubiculum | Gallery 165 
卧室 | 165号展厅
Another bit of optical illusion, also known as trompe l’oeil, is on view in Gallery 165. This Cubiculum, or painted bedroom, from a wealthy person’s country villa was buried by the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79 A.D. and was excavated in the early 1900s.
在165号展厅内可以看到另一种光学幻象，又名错觉画。这个卧室，或者说绘有壁画的卧室，来自一个有钱人的乡间别墅，于公元79年维苏威火山喷发时被埋葬，到了1900年代初才被发掘出来。
DON’T LEAVE THE KIDS AT HOME
别把孩子留在家里
There is no place like the Met for children to connect with the cultures of the world. Sure, it can be noisy, and there’s lots of walking to do, but there are also many places that allow children to stop, sit and gaze with wonder. You can help your kid prepare for the adventure by looking at pictures of the art online. The Met’s website is great for this; and you can browse the museum’s interactive timeline of art history to find what’s most interesting, whether it’s Egyptian mummies, knights in armor or colorful Renaissance paintings. Your child will be even more amazed to see them in person.
要让孩子与文化世界发生联系，没有比大都会博物馆更好的去处了。的确，这里可能很吵闹，还要走很多路，但也有不少地方可供孩子停下脚步，坐在某处充满惊奇地观望。你可以通过在网上浏览艺术品图片，帮助孩子为这趟奇遇之旅做些准备。用大都会博物馆的网站来做这件事是极好的；你可以浏览博物馆具有互动性的艺术历史时间表网页，找出最有趣的东西，不论是埃及木乃伊、身披盔甲的骑士，还是文艺复兴时期多姿多彩的画作。你的孩子亲眼见到它们时会更感震撼。
Looking for a place to start? Here are four galleries we recommend.
想知道从哪里开始参观？我们推荐四个展厅。
THE COLLECTION OF ARMS AND ARMOR | GALLERY 371
武器与盔甲展示厅 | 371号展厅
Knights, armor and horses: What more could a kid want? Even better, this collection is full of historical information, making it a great conversation starter for older children.
骑士、盔甲和马匹：一个孩子来到这里就会别无所求。更可心的是，这个展厅里满是历史信息，为大一点儿的孩子提供了很好的谈资。
VISIBLE STORAGE | GALLERY 774
可视化存储 | 774号展厅
Hidden away on a mezzanine, this room holds row after row of art and objects, safely stashed away behind glass. You could let a toddler off-leash here — but don’t lose sight of them; the place is a maze. The upside: Crowds are thin, and it has some of the best bathrooms in the building.
这个房间隐身于一个夹层空间，里边陈列着一排又一排的艺术品和物件，安全地藏在玻璃后边。你可以让幼儿在这里自在游走——但别让他们离开你的视线；这个地方堪称迷宫。好的方面是，此处人流稀少，而且有着这栋建筑里最好的卫生间。
“AMERICA TODAY” | GALLERY 909
《今日美国》 | 909号展厅
Thomas Hart Benton’s room-sized mural, “America Today,” fills this room, and is packed with details for young visitors to tease out. You could play a fun game of “I Spy” here.
出自托马斯·哈特·本顿(Thomas Hart Benton)之手、大小与房间相仿的壁画《今日美国》就在这个展厅里，上边有种种可供年轻访客发掘的细节。你在这里可以玩上一把“我是小间谍”(I Spy)。
THE EGYPTIAN GALLERIES | GALLERY 115
埃及展馆 | 115号展厅
Mummies, coffins and mythology fill these galleries. However, the rooms near the Great Hall lobby tend to get very crowded, so head to the far corner of the map, Gallery 115, which is devoted to Hatshepsut, one of ancient Egypt’s few female pharaohs.
这些展厅里满是木乃伊、棺木和神话。但靠近博物馆大厅(Great Hall)那几个展厅往往十分拥挤，所以建议你去位于偏远角落里的第115号展厅。那里被用来专门展示有关哈特谢普苏特(Hatshepsut)的藏品，她是古埃及为数不多的女法老之一。
Tips for Visiting the Met
大都会艺术博物馆参观贴士
GETTING IN
入馆
The best times to go: Seven days a week at 10:00 a.m., when the doors open; 3:00 p.m. weekdays or late Friday or Saturday: when it tends to be quieter.
最佳时间：每天上午10点开门的时候；工作日下午三点、周五晚或周六，这些时间往往更安静。
Admission prices are only suggested. You can pay less, but you must pay something. (The Met has more than six million visitors a year; there’s a lot of upkeep.)
门票价格只是建议。你可以少付一点，但不能不给。（大都会每年要接待600多万游客；维护成本很高。）
You are allowed to bring water into the museum, but no food or other beverages.
可以带水进博物馆，但不能带食物或其他饮料。
Luggage is not allowed and cannot be checked in at the museum’s coat check. This includes small carry-ons and oversize backpacks.
行李不能带入馆内，也不能存放在博物馆的衣帽间。这既指超大背包，也包括小行李箱。
Grab the official map. There are over 400 galleries, and you will get lost. When you do, ask a guard, nicely, for help.
拿一份官方地图。这里有400多个展厅，你会摸不清方向。迷路的时候，礼貌地向警卫寻求帮助。
PLAN YOUR DAY
计划日程
Cell service is spotty; so is the Wi-Fi.
馆内手机信号不稳定；Wifi也不稳。
If you need to charge your phone, head to the Carson Family Hall on the ground floor, a staging area for large groups of visitors. There are few charging outlets elsewhere in the museum.
如果你需要给手机充电，可以去一楼的卡森家族大厅(Carson Family Hall)，那是一个可以容纳大批游客的集结区。博物馆其他地方几乎没什么充电插座。
Plan to spend at least two hours in the museum. Give yourself a morning or an afternoon, no more.
至少安排两个小时在馆内参观。给自己一个上午或一个下午的时间，不需要更多。
Plan to eat elsewhere. There are dining options inside, but that’s not why you’re here.
安排去其他地方用餐。馆内也有吃饭的地方，但那不是你来这里的目的。
Strollers are allowed in all galleries unless otherwise noted.
除非另有注明，各展厅允许婴儿车出入。
GETTING OUT
出馆
Once you’ve seen everything we’ve suggested here, or your feet are just begging for some rest, make a quick stop at the gift shop if you must.
一旦看完了我们建议的这些地方，或者你觉得实在走不动了，可以到礼品店短暂休息下。
Then, head outside through the Great Hall and down the steps. Grab a hot dog or some ice cream from the vendors outside and walk around the building into Central Park to take a break. Once you’re ready to go, treat yourself to a cab. You’ve earned it.
然后穿过博物馆大厅朝外走，下楼梯。在外面的食品摊买个热狗或冰激凌，绕过这栋建筑，到中央公园里(Central Park)休息一会儿。准备走了，就叫辆出租车。这是你应得的。
If you’re not quite ready to move on to something entirely new, keep in mind that admission to the Met’s main building on Fifth Avenue also gets you into the Met Breuer, eight blocks away at 945 Madison Ave., where you can find modern and contemporary works, and to the Cloisters in upper Manhattan, where the focus is on medieval art.
如果还不打算去尝试其他完全不一样的东西，那就记住凭借第五大道上大都会艺术博物馆主馆的门票，你还可以去两个地方：一个是八个街区之外、位于麦迪逊大道(Madison Ave)945号的大都会博物馆布劳耶分馆(Met Breuer)，那里展示着一些现当代艺术品；另一个是位于曼哈顿上城的修道院博物馆(Cloisters)，那里主要展出中世纪艺术品。