Most people would agree that the brownstones and small apartment buildings nestled in the southwest corner of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, are for the most part drop-dead gorgeous. The 800 largely intact residential buildings, representing Italianate, Queen Anne, Romanesque Revival and Renaissance Revival styles, are executed in rich rusts, browns and terra cottas, and adorned with gracious bowed windows, generously proportioned stoops and adorable little turrets. The result, in the opinion of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, is “an extraordinary well-preserved late-19th-century streetscape.”
大多数人都会赞同，藏身于布鲁克林(Brooklyn)贝德福德-斯图文森区(Bedford-Stuyvesant)西南角的那些褐色砂石建筑和小公寓楼，多半都华丽得让人目不暇给。这800栋完好无损的住宅楼，展示出意大利风格、安妮女王风格、罗马复兴风格和文艺复兴风格，呈现出丰富的铁锈红、棕色与赤褐色，上面还装点着雅致的凸窗，配有宽敞的门廊，还有可爱的小角楼。因此，以纽约市地标建筑保护委员会(New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission)的话来说，这里是一处“保存得非常好的19世纪晚期街景”。
Prosperous black families began buying these houses, many of which were designed by prominent architects, in the early 1900s. Despite being battered by crime, drugs, poverty and neglect in the ‘60s, ‘70s and ‘80s, Bed-Stuy has for two thirds of a century endured as one of the nation’s largest and most storied concentrations of African-Americans and, more recently, Caribbean-Americans.
20世纪早期，一些发达起来的黑人家庭开始购买这些多由杰出建筑师设计出来的房屋。尽管在60年代、70年代和80年代，贝德福德-斯图文森区接连经受着犯罪、毒品、贫困与疏于管理的冲击，但这片区域在三分之二个世纪的时间里，一直是全美最大、也最富传奇色彩的非洲裔美国人及近来的加勒比裔美国人聚居区。
For these reasons, the landmarks commission has proposed designating a 16-block area bounded by Gates Avenue, Fulton Street, Bedford Avenue and Tompkins Avenue as the Bedford Historic District. The area sits just blocks from the Stuyvesant Heights Historic District, which was approved in 1971, and its extension, which was approved last year.
由于这些原因，地标建筑委员会已经提议，将把以盖茨大道(Gates Avenue)、福尔顿街(Fulton Street)、贝德福德大道(Bedford Avenue)和汤普金斯大道(Tompkins Avenue)为边界的16条街区，定为贝德福德历史区(Bedford Historic District)。该片区与1971年获批的斯图文森高地历史区(Stuyvesant Heights Historic District)及其去年获批的扩展区域，只隔了几条街。
As is invariably the case when the city seeks to create a historic district, the proposal has prompted strong responses both pro and con. Many were aired at a public hearing in January 2013, when more than three dozen people testified before the commission, largely in favor of the proposal. In addition, 355 people submitted form letters in support of designation, and 220 people submitted letters seeking additional information, saying they knew too little about the proposal to make an informed decision. (According to the commission, only 37 of the letters were from property owners within the district).
当纽约市要规划一个历史区时，总会遇到这样的情况——这项提议激起了正反双方的强烈回应。许多意见在2013年1月份的一场公众听证会上得以公布。当时，有三十多人在委员会面前作证，表示他们十分赞同这项提议；另有355人递交了通用信函来对该认定表示支持；而220人递交了寻求更多信息的信件，声称对于该项提议他们所知了了，很难做出明智的决定（据地标建筑委员会统计，只有37封这样的信件来自该区域内的房地产业主）。
Supporters contend that a designation would preserve an architecturally and historically significant part of the city while also rewarding residents who had stuck with the neighborhood during tough times, in part by increasing the value of their homes and preventing unwelcome new development.
支持者提出，一项历史区的认定，不但可以将这座城市中无论是建筑风格还是历史背景都具重要意义的那部分保存下来，而且还能让经历了艰苦时期依然坚守在该社区的居民们获益。而让他们获益的途径，部分就是增加其房屋的价值，并阻止不受欢迎的新开发项目。
Opponents predict that a designation would bring heftier renovation costs and a tangle of regulations for homeowners seeking to improve their properties, along with higher rents and sale prices that would force out the largely low-income minority residents who form the area’s core. Opponents also argue that most Bed-Stuy residents weren’t adequately informed about the proposal.
反对者们则预言，一项认定措施会带来更为沉重的翻修成本，也会给试图修缮自家房产的业主们带来乱七八糟的规矩，还会推高租金和房价，迫使大部分收入虽低但形成了该区核心群体的少数族裔居民搬走。反对者们还争论说，大多数贝德福德-斯图文森区的居民，对这项提议的了解并不充分。
The wheels of historic designation grind exceedingly slowly, and no vote on the proposal has been scheduled. But as the city awaits the appointment of a new commission chairman, both sides continue to marshal their arguments.
历史区定名之争的车轮，在极为缓慢地前行着，还没有任何关于此提案的投票被安排上日程。但是，当这座城市正等着新一届地标建筑委员会主席的任命时，正反双方还在继续组织着他们的辩论内容。
The Proponents
支持者们
If beauty were the sole criteria for designation as a historic district, proponents say the neighborhood would win hands down. Its smart-looking townhouses and small apartment buildings were designed by some of the city’s most celebrated 19th-century architects, and preservation groups have been vocal in praising their charms.
如果美观是历史区认定的唯一标准，支持者们说，该社区就会轻而易举地获胜。那些气派的联排别墅和小公寓楼，都是由19世纪纽约市一些最著名的建筑师设计的，各个文物保护组织也一直在不遗余力地对这些建筑的魅力表示赞许。
The Victorian Society New York described Bed-Stuy as home to “a wide array of exciting and important Victorian architecture.” The New York Landmarks Conservancy called the buildings “an extraordinary collection of architectural treasures with attractive streetscapes and a vivid sense of place” and praised their “dazzling array of the styles of the late 19th and early 20th century.”
纽约维多利亚协会(Victorian Society New York)形容贝德福德-斯图文森区为“一大片令人激动的重要维多利亚建筑”的家园。纽约地标建筑管理委员会(The New York Landmarks Conservancy)则把这些建筑称为“一批非凡的建筑财富，不仅有美丽的街景，而且有鲜明的地域感”，并赞扬这些建筑为“19世纪晚期与20世纪早期风格的炫目排列”。
The Historic Districts Council, which included the larger Bed-Stuy neighborhood in its first class of “Six to Celebrate” — New York neighborhoods worthy of attention — took note of “the architectural splendor of this remarkable Brooklyn neighborhood,” pronouncing it among the city’s “richest and most remarkable collections of 19th-century rowhouses.”
历史街区理事会(Historic Districts Council)将更大范围的贝德福德-斯图文森区，归入被其命名为“六个值得赞美的社区”(Six to Celebrate)中的第一等级，也就是纽约市值得关注的社区。该理事会注意到了“这个非凡的布鲁克林社区在建筑方面的辉煌之处”，并宣称该社区属于纽约市“最丰富也最出色的19世纪排屋群落”之列。
With Bed-Stuy second only to Harlem as a destination for black New Yorkers, many people also regard these streets as representing a vital thread in the city’s development. As the New York Landmarks Conservancy summed up their importance, “The sense of place is heightened by the strong sense of community, including many families that have owned their homes for generations.”
由于贝德福德-斯图文森区是纽约仅次于哈莱姆区(Harlem)的黑人市民居住地，许多人也认为，那些街道代表着这座城市发展历程的一条重要线索。正如纽约地标建筑管理委员会对这些街道的重要性所做的总结那样，“这种地域感，被强烈的社区意识增强了，其中有许多家庭已经在他们自己的房子里延续了好几代人”。
Advocates of historic designation say it is precisely this sense of community that they yearn to preserve.
历史区定名提案的拥护者们说，他们渴望保存的正是这种共同体的感觉。
“My 7- and 8-year-old sons are growing up in a Bedford Village brownstone that their great-grandparents purchased to raise their grandmother and great-uncles and host countless Thanksgiving dinners,” Yoidette Erima said. “Neighbors have come to know each other’s families over generations. The retired men on our block are out and about, keeping watch daily.”
“我家7岁和8岁的儿子，在贝德福德村一栋褐色砂石公寓里长大，这栋房屋是他们的曾祖父母买下的，在其中养育了他们的祖母和舅公，并享用了无数次感恩节晚餐，”约戴特·埃里玛(Yoidette Erima)说，“邻居们代代相处，已经渐渐了解了彼此的家庭。退休的男人们在我们街区里四处活动，日日守望着这里。”
Advocates also say that a historic designation would prevent existing buildings from being torn down and replaced by less attractive speculative developments.
拥护者们还说，一项历史区的定名，可以防止现有建筑遭到拆除，再被一些不那么有吸引力、非实用性的开发项目所取代。
“I am concerned about the cheaply made, thoughtlessly designed new buildings developed in our area in the last decade,” said Onika Abraham, a resident of Hancock Street who described herself as a second-generation homeowner in the proposed district.
“我很担心过去十年来在我们区开发的这些造价低廉、设计粗糙的大楼，”汉考克街(Hancock Street)的一位居民欧尼卡·亚伯拉罕(Onika Abraham)说，她称自己是该提案区里的二代业主。
“I am hopeful,” added Ms. Abraham, who is in her late 30s and works as a communications director for a sustainable food network, “that the landmark designation would make developers consider the history, beauty and cohesion of our neighborhood when designing and constructing new buildings or renovations.”
“我很希望，”亚伯拉罕补充道，“地标建筑的认定可以让开发商们在设计和建造新建筑或翻修大楼的时候，考虑到我们社区的历史、美观与协调性。”她年近40，是一家可持续食品网络公司的公关总监。
Alicia and Steven Foxworth, Verona Place homeowners, are also not happy about such newcomers. “As residents that were born and raised in Bedford-Stuyvesant,” Ms. Foxworth told the landmarks commission, “myself a teacher, my husband an architect, we have watched closely as new development has changed the look and feel of our community. As such, we grieve the possibility that this trend will continue without the greatly desired protections of this landmarking process and we happily support the landmark designation.”
住在维罗纳街(Verona Place)的业主艾丽西娅与斯蒂文·福克斯沃思(Alicia and Steven foxworth)对这样的新建筑也不太满意。“作为在贝德福德-斯图文森区出生和长大的居民，”艾丽西娅·福克斯沃思告诉地标建筑委员会，“我是一名老师，而我的丈夫是一位建筑设计师，在新的开发项目改变我们社区面貌与感觉的过程中，我们一直都在对此密切关注。正因如此，我们才感到悲伤，在没有地标审批程序保护的情况下，这一趋势有可能一直持续下去。所以我们很高兴能支持这项地标建筑认定提案。”
Some brokers endorse this position. Michelle Kadushin, an agent with Rutenberg Realty, who described herself as a “proud homeowner” in the proposed district, said: “I sell New York real estate and can see firsthand how preserving the original landscape of housing stock preserves our past. Every parcel has a story to tell, and we should preserve all of the chapters of the story.”
一些地产经纪人也支持这一立场。鲁顿贝格地产公司(Rutenberg Realty)的代理米歇尔·卡杜辛(Michelle Kadushin)形容自己是该提案区的一名“骄傲的业主”，她说：“我销售纽约市的房地产，所以能直观地感受到，维持住宅区的原有面貌，是怎样使我们的历史过往得以保存的。每块土地都有一个故事可讲，而我们应该保留这个故事的所有章节。”
Many local civic groups and elected officials have supported the proposal, among them Community Board 3;the former borough president, Marty Markowitz; and Albert Vann, a former city councilman who represented the area for 40 years. They say that residents have been kept fully informed about the proposal and that any additional costs or red tape incurred would be worth it. “Yes, landmarking imposes some obligations on property owners,” Mr. Vann said, “but it gives more than it takes away.”
许多当地的民间团体和民选官员也都对该提案表示支持，其中包括社区委员会的三名成员；前任区长马蒂·马科维奇(Marty Markowitz)；以及一位前任市议员艾伯特·范恩(Albert Vann)，他代表该区已经长达40年了。他们说，居民们已经对该项提案有了充分的了解，明白由此引发的任何附加成本或繁文缛节都是值得的。“是的，成为地标建筑会把一些责任强加给业主们，”范恩说道，“但人们得到的会比失去的更多。”
Perhaps the most heartfelt argument in favor of historic designation is that it will reward those who have kept faith in the neighborhood over the years. According to Claudette Brady, a founder of the Bedford Stuyvesant Society for Historic Preservation, the majority of those who testified in favor of the proposal before the landmarks commission were African-Americans between the ages of 65 and 95, many of them third-, fourth- and even fifth-generation residents, who hope that a historical designation will protect their economic investment.
或许在支持历史区认定方面，最诚恳的一个论点是，这样做会让多年来一心一意住在该社区中居住的那些人有所收益。据贝德福德-斯图文森区历史保护协会(Bedford Stuyvesant Society for Historic Preservation)的创始人克劳德特·布雷迪(Claudette Brady)透露，在地标建筑委员会前面证实他们支持这项提案的人，多数都是非洲裔美国人，年龄介于65至95岁之间，其中许多人都是这里的第三、第四甚至第五代居民。他们希望一项历史区认定措施会保护他们的经济投资。
“Bedford-Stuyvesant is a hard-working community of proud people who, when the city and government failed them, took back the streets, one block at a time,” said Suzanne Spellen, a preservationist and one-time Bedford resident who blogs as Montrose Morris on Brownstoner.com. “We swept our sidewalks, planted flowers in our yards and watched everyone else’s children as if they were our own.
“贝德福德-斯图文森区是由一群自豪的人所组成的一个勤劳的社区。当这座城市及其政府弃之不管的时候，这些人一个街区一个街区地重新接管那些街道，”曾是贝德福德区居民的文保主义者苏珊娜·施佩伦(Suzanne Spellen)说，她在Brownstoner.com网站以Montrose Morris之名发布博客。“我们清扫我们的人行道、在我们的院子里种花、就像对待自己的孩子一样关心每个别人家的孩子。”
“Landmarking is an affirmation of that struggle,” Ms. Spellen said, “a reward for holding on tight to something of great value, and that is this remarkable community of brick and mortar, tradition and pride, flesh and bone. It will protect what has been preserved for the last 150 years so that it can be handed down for those who will come after us, without the dangers of overdevelopment or arbitrary tear-downs and alterations.”
“获得地标建筑的称号，是对那些努力的一种肯定，”施佩伦说，“是对坚守一份无价之宝的回馈。而那无价之宝，就是这样一个由砖块和灰泥、传统与骄傲、鲜血及白骨构筑成的杰出社区。这个认定将保护过去150年来已经留存下来的东西，以便将其传承给后代，而不用遭受过度开发或强拆和改造的威胁。”
As for the specter of gentrification? “Gentrification and landmarking don’t necessarily go hand in hand,” Ms. Brady said. “Prices in the neighborhood, especially rentals, were already rising before landmarking was proposed.”
那么对“绅士化”（gentrification是指一个地区通过重建使地价上升，较富裕的人群迁入，而下层居民被迫迁出的现象——译注）的阴影怎么看呢？“绅士化与地标认定并不一定会同时发生，”布雷迪说，“此社区的房价——尤其是租金，在地标认定被提出之前就已经在上涨了。”
The Opponents
反对者们
Opponents of the proposed Bedford Historic District agree that many of the buildings recommended for designation are exquisite. But, they wonder, are they all so handsome as to deserve being draped with an official mantle of protection?
贝德福德历史区提案的反对者们都同意，那些获推荐认定的建筑物里，有很多都非常精美。但他们怀疑，是否所有建筑物都漂亮到了值得用一件官方保护斗篷来盖住的地步呢？
The Real Estate Board of New York, an organization that has been vocal in identifying potential downsides of historic designation, has cited many structures in the proposed district that it considers decidedly mediocre.
纽约房地产理事会(The Real Estate Board of New York)在确定历史区认定的潜在负面影响方面，一直很有发言权。该组织在该提案区内列举了许多他们认为非常平庸的建筑。
“Looking at these inferior structures,” said Michael Slattery, the group’s senior vice president for research. “We ask ourselves: are these buildings or the collection of buildings so special, so distinctive, that we want to preserve them forever?”
“看看这些劣等的建筑物吧，”该机构负责研究工作的高级副主席迈克尔·斯莱特里(Michael Slattery)说，“我们扪心自问：这些建筑或说这些建筑群，是否特殊至此、出众至此，以至于我们想要永远保存它们呢？”
His association, which contends that only the most attractive structures were featured in the commission’s official description of the area, thinks not, and points to structures on Putnam Avenue, Madison Street and Monroe Street that, in the board’s opinion, do not measure up aesthetically.
他所在的协会争论说，（地标建筑保护）委员会对该区域的官方描述中，只特别提到了最有吸引力的那些建筑，而没有考虑并提及普特南大街(Putnam Avenue)、麦迪逊大街(Madison Street)和门罗大街(Monroe Street)的建筑物。而那些地方以该理事会的观点来看，在审美上并不符合标准。
The real estate group also questioned exactly how these homes reflect the area’s historic importance.
一些房地产集团对这些住宅究竟如何影响了该区域的历史重要性，也提出了质疑。
“It is impossible to establish a significant link between that history and this group of buildings,” Mr. Slattery said. Virtually every city neighborhood can claim an interesting history, he said. And he added, “What is it that elevates such history from interesting to important and that requires the preservation of these particular buildings forever?”
“在那段历史和这群建筑物之间，不可能建立什么重要联系，”斯莱特里说。实际上，每个城市社区都能够自称经历过一段有趣的历史，他说。然后又补充了一句，“究竟是什么理由，能把这样的历史从有趣提高到重要的程度上呢？又是什么理由能要求这些特别的建筑物获得永久保护呢？”
As is common in debates involving preservation, the loudest arguments have to do with money and red tape. Changes on the exteriors of buildings in a historic district must meet certain standards and must be approved in advance by the landmarks commission. Critics of the proposal contend that improvements could prove costly and time-consuming. And given that the average household income in the Bedford neighborhood is slightly over $50,000, according to census data, they say the burden will fall most heavily on longtime minority residents, many of whom are elderly and live on limited incomes.
正如在有关文物保护的辩论中常见的那样，最激烈的争论，一定会涉及到钱和繁琐的程序。在一个历史区当中，要变更建筑物的外观，必须符合一定的标准，而且必须先通过地标建筑委员会的批准。这项议案的批评者认为，建筑物的修缮工作将耗资巨大且耗时持久。而考虑到贝德福德社区的平均家庭收入，据普查数据只比5万美元（约合人民币30.7万元）略高，他们说，这项负担大部分将由少数长期居民承担。而那些人当中很多都是依赖有限的收入来生活的老年人。
“My family and I worked very hard for our property,” Kenneth Washington, a retired inspector for the city Department of Transportation, said in a statement to the commission. Citing the time and money that could be required to restore buildings within the district, he added, “We do not want to see this happen to our neighborhood.”
“我和家人为了供房，都在努力工作，”纽约市交通部一位退休的巡视员肯尼斯·华盛顿(Kenneth Washington)在一份递交给该委员会的陈述中说道。他提到了修缮该区域内建筑物可能花费的时间和金钱，然后补充道，“我们不想看到这样的事情发生在我们的社区里。”
As for a city program that offers grants for facade restoration to eligible owners of buildings in historic districts, critics say the money available is too limited to do much good.
至于一项为符合条件的历史区业主提供津贴修缮建筑立面的计划，批评者称，可用的款项实在有限，所以无法做得那么好。
Opponents also worry that historic designation will lead to an unwelcome spike in property values that could force out working-class and middle-class residents who had survived the area’s difficult years and helped make the neighborhood what it is today. They say the costs of renovating designated buildings would be passed on to renters. The jury is out as to whether designation increases property values, Mr. Slattery said; however, the board’s analysis of historic districts in Manhattan shows that the median income in designated areas is much higher than the city average.
反对者们还担心，历史区的认定计划将致使房产价值事与愿违地猛增，这样一来，可能会迫使那些原本在当地度过了艰难岁月、并为该社区如今的面貌做出贡献的工薪阶层和中产阶级居民们纷纷搬走。反对者们说，那些获认定建筑的翻修成本，会被转嫁到租房者身上。斯莱特里说，对于这次认定是否会使房产增值，评审委员会尚无定论；然而，该理事会对曼哈顿内历史区的分析资料表明，在已获认定的区域内，居民收入中值比该城市的平均水平要高得多。 
At the hearing, Kirsten John Foy, the president of the Brooklyn chapter of the National Action Network, a civil-rights group, said that, as a result of foreclosures and other factors, “people are being forced out of their homes at still alarming rates. At a time when the community was beginning to reestablish itself,” Mr. Foy added, “why would we encourage gentrification, predatory lenders, buyers and racketeers? Making homeownership more costly for existing residents will accelerate normal market and business cycles, drive up evictions, and create more gentrification, more displacement.”
在听证会上，民权组织国家行动网(National action Network)的布鲁克林分会会长克里斯汀·约翰·福伊(Kristen John Foy)说，作为止赎和其他因素的结果，“人们在房屋还处于报警率边缘时，就被迫搬离。或者说，在社区开始自我重建时，”福伊补充道，“我们为什么会鼓励绅士化、掠夺性贷款、购买和敲诈勒索呢？让现有居民为当上业主而付出更大的成本，会加速正常市场与商业的循环，让驱逐房客的情况激增，并造成更严重的绅士化，以及更多的搬迁行为。”
A common argument against historic designation is that it will hinder development. In this case, the real estate group contends that designation will choke off the production of affordable housing, a priority of the new de Blasio administration. Without designation, the real estate group said, developers would be able to build low-rise apartment houses that contain more units per structure than their neighbors.
反对历史区定名的一个常见论点是，那样会阻碍房地产的开发。在此案例中，该地产集团争论说，这项认定将抑制保障型住房的开发，而这是新任市长白思豪(de Blasio)行政班子的首要任务。该房地产集团说，没有地标认定的话，开发商们就可以建造一些每栋楼的内部单元比附近楼房更多的低层公寓楼了。
For many residents, the issue simply boils down to information, or more accurately, what they see as the lack of it. Opponents of the plan criticized the scheduling of the commission’s hearing (in the middle of a workday) and its location (in Manhattan), on the grounds that it catered to what Mr. Foy described as “architectural elites.”
对很多居民来说，问题只归结为信息，或者更确切一点，他们认为缺乏了解的信息。该计划的反对者批评地标建筑委员会的听证会日程安排（某个工作日的中间时段）及其地点（曼哈顿），理由是这是为了迎合福伊所说的那些“建筑精英”。
Even some who see merits in the proposal contend that the drawbacks outweigh the benefits.
即使那些看到这项提案价值所在的人也有异议，他们认为弊大于利。
“I am not opposed to protecting the historic and majestic neighborhood where I have worked and lived for over 20 years,” said the Rev. Johnny Ray Youngblood, the senior pastor of Mount Pisgah Baptist Church, which sits just outside the proposed district. “However, I am opposed to additional and unnecessary landmark designation that will place undue financial constraints and burdens on people who can barely afford to maintain what they have spent years building.”
“我不是反对保护这个有历史意义而又宏伟壮丽的居民区，毕竟我已经在这里工作、生活了20多年，”山毗斯迦山浸信会教堂(Mount Pisgah Baptist Church)的牧师、主教约翰尼·雷·扬布拉德(Rev. Johnny Ray Youngblood)说，他这座教堂正好坐落在提案区之外。“但是，我反对额外的和不必要的地标认定，那会把过度的财务约束及负担加诸人们身上。可那些人几乎难以承担他们已花数年修建的房屋的维护费用了。”
Mr. Youngblood also took issue with the way the city was handling the issue, saying the commission was trying to “ramrod this designation down our throats.”
扬布拉德还对纽约市处理这个问题的方式持有异议。他说，地标建筑委员会正在试图“把这项提案往我们喉咙里灌。”
And Sehu Jeppe, 64, a longtime city health department administrator who now runs a nonprofit organization called Black Wellness, told the commission: “What needs to be preserved are the people of Bedford-Stuyvesant.” Mr. Jeppe, a third-generation Bedford-Stuyvesant resident and a homeowner in the proposed district since 1987, added, “I’d hate to see us become a Harlem, where the jewel has been extracted.”
而现年64岁、曾久任市卫生部门官员、现在经营着一家名为“黑色健康”(Black Wellness)的非盈利组织的舍胡·耶珀(Sehu Jeppe)对该委员会说：“真正需要保护的，是贝德福德-斯图文森区的人民。”耶珀自1987年起就在该提案区拥有房产，而且是贝德福德-斯图文森区的第三代居民。他补充道，“我讨厌看到我们这里变成第二个哈莱姆区，那是一个被摘走宝石的地方。”