Men sporting shaved heads and robes who impersonate Buddhist monks and aggressively panhandle for donations are once again proliferating in New York City and countries around the world, the authorities said.
据当局透露，剃光头、穿长袍、打扮得像佛教僧侣的男子强行化缘的现象，正再度在纽约以及世界各地盛行起来。
Reports of the fake monks spiked two years ago, then waned. But now they are back in force from Times Square to the High Line, the public park built on an old elevated rail line on Manhattan’s West Side.
假和尚的活动在两年前达至峰值，而后渐渐减少。但是现在又卷土重来，从时报广场到高线(High Line)一带，都有这样的人在活动。高线是在旧的高架轨道线上修建的一个公园，位于曼哈顿西区。
The panhandling is not limited to New York City, however. Reports of the men have surfaced in San Francisco, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India and Nepal, officials said.
假和尚化缘的现象并不局限于纽约城。官员说，在旧金山、澳大利亚、加拿大、香港、印度和尼泊尔都出现了这种报道。
Their tactics follow a familiar script: Hold out a beaded bracelet or gold-colored medallion featuring a Buddhist saying to a passer-by, get the person to take it, then ask for a donation. Those who offer too little money or nothing at all have the items snatched back and risk being shouted at, The Associated Press reported.
他们的手法大同小异：僧人手拿一串佛珠或金色佛牌，让路人收下，而后要求捐钱。美联社(The Associated Press)报道说，如果不给钱，或者给钱太少，小东西就会被抢回去，还有可能遭到大声呵斥。
On June 20, the High Line put up three posters and signs in its bathrooms and elevators warning visitors not to give to the impersonators after administrators received complaints. Aggressive panhandling is prohibited in New York.
高线管理者收到投诉后，6月20日在洗手间和电梯里贴出三张海报和标志，警告游客不要给假和尚钱。纽约禁止强行乞讨。
The signs appear to have been effective, said Robert Hammond, executive director and co-founder of Friends of the High Line. The signs did not scare away the beggars but they did educate visitors, who became less inclined to give, leading to reduced donations to the impersonators, he said.
高线之友(Friends of the High Line)的联合创始人和执行董事罗伯特·哈蒙德(Robert Hammond)说，标志似乎起了作用。乞讨者并没有被吓走，但是他说这教育了游客，他们不再那么轻易让步了，所以假和尚讨到的钱也少了。
“What we decided to do is put that information out there and let people decide,” Mr. Hammond said in an interview on Wednesday.
“我们决定贴出消息，让人们自行决定，”哈蒙德周三接受采访时说。
The men targeted out-of-towners, he said, adding that his office staff had a rule of thumb for watching the interactions: Each second a visitor was willing to talk to one of the robed men was equal to 50 miles away from New York City that the person probably lived. New Yorkers would not give the men even a second’s worth of their time, Mr. Hammond added.
他说那些男子把外地人作为目标，并接着表示他手下的工作人员在观察双方的互动时得出了一个经验：行人愿意和穿着长袍的男子交流的时间长度，与此人的可能居住地与纽约市的距离成正比，每秒相当于50英里（约合80公里）。哈蒙德表示，纽约人一秒也不愿意浪费在这种人身上。
Those who have monitored the panhandling said it appeared the men were colluding as part of some larger network. The medallions they offer are the same worldwide, they do not appear to compete with each other for turf and have been seen counting their money together.
监视沿街乞讨行为的人表示，那些男子似乎是某个更大的网络的成员。他们手里拿的佛牌大都一样。他们相互之间似乎不会争夺势力范围，还有人看到他们在一起数钱。
While begging and donations are a tradition in Buddhism, aggressive panhandling and abusive behavior are not acceptable to most practitioners, experts agreed.
尽管化缘募捐是佛教的传统，但专家一致认为，咄咄逼人的乞讨和粗鲁行为对大部分佛教徒来说都是不可接受的。
The Rev. T. Kenjitsu Nakagaki, president of the Buddhist Council of New York, said he became aware of the fake monks three years ago when they appeared in Chinatown. After word circulated to withhold contributions, the impersonators left the neighborhood, he said in an interview Tuesday.
纽约佛教委员会(Buddhist Council of New York)会长中垣显实(T. Kenjitsu Nakagaki)大师表示，三年前假和尚出现在唐人街时他就注意到了。周二接受采访时，他表示，在让民众不要施舍财物的消息传开后，那些假和尚离开了该地区。
“Stop doing it if you’re not a monk,” he said of soliciting donations. “This is disrespectful what you are doing.”
“如果你不是僧人的话，请不要这么做，”他在谈到募化时说。“这是一种不敬的行为。”
Many Westerners cannot tell the difference between authentic monks and impostors. Gift-giving is one of the religion’s virtues, and donating to the monks is a chance for lay people to build “karmic merit,” he said.
很多西方人分不清真假和尚之间的区别。他说，赠送礼物是佛教的美德之一，向僧人施舍财物让世俗之人有机会“积德”。
It was not uncommon to see monks lined up in places like Boudhanath, Nepal, chanting a ritual text and politely holding their begging bowls for offerings. In that setting, a fake monk using strong-arm tactics would be called out because such approaches are so outside traditional practices, he said.
在尼泊尔浮图纳特塔(Boudhanath)等地，排成队的僧人一边念诵经文，一边礼貌地拿着化缘钵募化的情景并不少见。他说，在那种环境下，使用强制策略的假和尚会遭到呵斥，因为这完全背离了传统做法。
On Wednesday, days after news reports warning about the fake monks, two men with shaved heads and wearing mustard-yellow robes walked slowly along Eighth Avenue near 42nd Street.
在曝出警惕假和尚的新闻报道几天后的周三，两名穿着褐黄色长袍的光头男子慢慢沿着42街附近的第八大道走着。
They approached pedestrians, holding medallions and seeking donations they said were for a Buddhist temple. When pressed for details about where he was from and what temple would benefit from the contributions, one of the men indicated he did not speak English. He smiled, said “peace” and then walked away.
他们走到行人面前，拿着佛牌募集捐款，称善款将用于修庙。被追问有关他们从哪里来，以及善款将用于哪座庙的细节时，其中一名男子表示自己不会说英语。他微笑着说了一句“和平”便走开了。