A crowded Metro-North Railroad train slammed into a sport-utility vehicle on the tracks at a Westchester County crossing on Tuesday in a fiery crash that killed several people on the train during the evening rush.
周二，一辆满载乘客的大都会北方铁路(Metro-North Railroad)列车在韦斯特切斯特县(Westchester County)的一个十字路口撞上了一辆运动型多用途车，这场晚高峰时段发生的惨烈事故致使火车上的几人死亡。
A dozen people were injured and hundreds of passengers were stranded after evacuating the train, as its front car continued to release billowing smoke into the cold night air. Service was suspended on the Harlem line on Tuesday night as firefighters responded to the smoking car and officials said they were investigating what led to the crash.
12人在事故中受伤，且因最前一节车厢持续向寒冷的夜空中散发出滚滚浓烟，数百名乘客在列车被疏散后被困。周二晚间，哈莱姆(Harlem)线的运营暂停，与此同时，消防员正对那节冒出浓烟的车厢采取行动，官员表示他们正在调查是什么导致了该起事故。
The train hit the S.U.V., a black Jeep Cherokee, in the crossing at Commerce Street in Valhalla, N.Y., around 6:30 p.m., officials with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said. The driver of the vehicle and several passengers on the train were killed.
大都会运输管理局(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)官员称，列车晚间6时30分左右在纽约州瓦尔哈拉(Valhalla)商务大街(Commerce Street)的十字路口处撞上了那辆黑色吉普切诺基(Jeep Cherokee)运动型多用途车。轿车司机和列车上的几名乘客死亡。
The train pushed the S.U.V. about 10 train car lengths north of the crossing, and the S.U.V. and the front end of the train caught fire, authority officials said.
当局官员称，列车将那辆运动型多用途车向十字路口以北推出了约10节车厢的距离，那辆运动型多用途车和列车最前端起火。
Passengers were evacuated through the back of the train. About 400 of them were taken to a local rock-climbing gym for shelter, said Aaron Donovan, a spokesman for the transportation authority.
乘客从列车末端被疏散。运输管理局发言人亚伦·多诺文(Aaron Donovan)说，他们中约有400人被带往了一家当地攀岩健身房安置。
Michael McGuinn, 22, who works at a gym near the accident site, said he saw sparks flying from the front of the train and heard a huge crash. He said he saw the train braking, and the car catching on fire.
在那家位于事故地点附近健身房工作的22岁的迈克尔·麦吉恩(Michael McGuinn)说，他看见火星从列车前段迸发出来，并听到了巨大的撞击声。他说，他看见火车制动，轿车起火。
“I knew immediately that it was a car and that it was going to be really bad,” Mr. McGuinn said.
“我立马就知道那是一辆轿车，而且情况将会非常糟糕，” 麦吉恩说。
A short time later, he started hearing passengers moaning and trying to leave the train.
不久之后，他开始听到乘客哀叫着试图离开列车。
“I just saw a lot of dazed and confused people,” he said. “They all looked shellshocked.”
“我看到好多头昏眼花、一脸茫然的人，”他说。“他们看起来都吓呆了。”
One passenger, Jared Woodard, 35, was sitting in the back car of the train on his way home to Chappaqua, N.Y., when the train stopped. He said he did not feel the crash, but when he left the car with the other passengers, he saw the front car was smoking.
一名乘客，35岁的贾里德·伍达德(Jared Woodard)，在火车停下时正坐在列车最后一节车厢里，返回纽约州查巴克(Chappaqua)的家中。他说，他没有感觉到撞击，但当他与其他乘客一起离开车厢时，他看到最前一节车厢正在冒烟。
“I saw orange smoking rising about 100 or 200 feet, heavy billowy smoke coming off the front car of the train,” he said.
“我看到橘黄色的烟升起大约100或者200英尺高，滚滚浓烟从火车的最前面一节车厢散发出来，”他说。
Metro-North has been under intense scrutiny after a series of crashes that killed six people in less than a year, including a derailment in 2013 on the Hudson line that left four commuters dead in the Bronx. A federal report released last year was highly critical of Metro-North.
大都会北方铁路在于不到一年的时间里发生的一系列致使六人死亡的撞车事故之后，一直处于严格监察之下，事故包括2013年哈德逊(Hudson)线在布朗克斯(Bronx)的那次致使四名乘客丧生的列车脱轨事件。一份去年发布的联邦报告对大都会北方铁路持强烈批判态度。
On Tuesday night, the National Transportation Safety Board said it was closely following the crash. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York was on his way to the site.
周二晚间，国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)称其正密切跟进是次撞车事故。纽约州州长安德鲁·M·科莫(Andrew M. Cuomo)正在赶往事故现场的途中。
In a statement, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said, “Our hearts go out to those lost, we pray for those injured and our hats are tipped to the brave first responders who came to the scene of this tragic crash so quickly.”
在一份声明中，纽约州参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)说，“我们的心和那些离世了的人在一起，我们为那些伤者祈祷，我们向那些如此迅速地赶往这场悲惨撞车事故现场的勇敢的应急人员致敬。”