For 15 years, some of the art world’s most established dealers and experts rhapsodized about dozens of newly discovered masterworks by titans of Modernism. Elite buyers paid up to $17 million to own just one of these canvases, said to have been created by the hands of artists like Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Mark Rothko, Franz Kline and Robert Motherwell.
过去15年里，艺术界最德高望重的一些经销商和专家对数十件新发现的现代主义巨匠画作予以盛赞。高端买家最高给出1700万美元（约合1.04亿元人民币）的价格，只为拥有这些油画中的一幅，据说，它们的作者都是像杰克森·波洛克(Jackson Pollock)、威廉·德·库宁(Willem de Kooning)、马克·罗斯科(Mark Rothko)、弗朗兹·克兰(Franz Kline)和罗伯特·马瑟韦尔(Robert Motherwell)这样的艺术家。
But federal prosecutors say that most, if not all, of the 63 ballyhooed works — which fetched more than $80 million in sales — were painted in a home and garage in Queens by one unusually talented but unknown artist who was paid only a few thousand dollars apiece for his handiworks.
然而，联邦检察官说，63件被大肆宣传的作品中的大多数（如果不是所有的），都是在皇后区某人的家中和车库里绘制的，这些作品在交易中卖出了逾8000万美元，作者是一名极具才华的不知名画家，每绘制一幅画作，他只拿到几千美元的报酬。
Authorities did not name or charge the painter and provided few identifying details except to say he had trained at a Manhattan art school in a variety of disciplines including painting, drawing and lithography. He was selling his work on the streets of New York in the early 1990s, they said, when he was spotted by a Chelsea art dealer who helped convert his work into one of the most audacious art frauds in recent memory.
当局没有点明作者的身份或指控他，只说他在曼哈顿的一所艺术院校接受了多个科目的培训，包括绘画、素描和版画，除此之外，当局几乎没提供多少可供辨认的细节。他们说，上世纪90年代初，他在纽约街头出售自己的作品时，被切尔西的一名艺术经销商一眼相中，此人利用他的作品制造了近些年来最为肆无忌惮的一个艺术骗局。
The new details about the man said to have created the fakes were contained in a superseding indictment, handed up Wednesday against one of the co-conspirators, Glafira Rosales, an obscure dealer from Long Island who was arrested after a lengthy Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry. She has been charged with wire fraud and money laundering in connection to what authorities have called a scam, but her boyfriend, alleged to be the other co-conspirator who discovered the painter, has not been charged.
当局于周三针对案件的同谋者之一格拉菲拉·罗萨莱斯(Glafira Rosales)提出了替代起诉，起诉书中含有与据称是假画作者本人相关的新细节，罗萨莱斯是来自长岛的神秘经销商，在接受联邦调查局(FBI)的一次漫长的质询后被逮捕。她被指控涉嫌参与电信诈骗和洗钱，当局已经表示，这些活动和一起诈骗案有关，不过她的男友没有被起诉，据称他是赝品案的另一名同谋，就是他发现了那名画家。
Investigators say Ms. Rosales sold 40 of the counterfeit works through Knoedler & Company, a venerable Upper East Side gallery that took in about $63 million from their sale. The gallery, which abruptly closed in November 2011, kept $43 million of that sum, and paid Ms. Rosales $20 million. Fakes sold through a second Manhattan dealer, Julian Weissman, brought in another $17 million, according to the indictment.
调查人员说，罗萨莱斯通过上东区的一家老牌画廊诺德勒画廊(Knoedler & Company)卖出了40幅赝品，该画廊从交易中获取了6300万美元左右的收益。这家突然于2011年11月关闭的画廊，从中扣下了4300万美元给自己，之后给罗萨莱斯支付了2000万美元。根据起诉书，通过第二名曼哈顿经销商朱利安·韦斯曼(Julian Weissman)售出的赝品又另外赚取了1700万美元。
Meanwhile, the painter earned $5,400 for a painting in December 2005 and $7,000 for another in February 2008, the indictment said.
同时，起诉书说，这名画家在2005年12月靠一幅作品挣了5400美元，2008年2月，他又靠另一幅作品挣了7000美元。
Ms. Rosales has pleaded not guilty and was released on bail earlier this week. Knoedler, its former president Ann Freedman, and Mr. Weissman have repeatedly said they believed the works they sold had been authentic.
本周早些时候，罗萨莱斯提出无罪辩护，并被保释，诺德勒画廊前总裁安·弗里德曼(Ann Freedman)以及韦斯曼都再三表示，他们认定自己卖出的画作是真品。
How imitations of the most heralded Abstract Expressionists by a complete unknown could have fooled connoisseurs and clients remains a mystery.
一个完全不知名的人物模仿划时代的抽象表现主义艺术家绘出的赝品，是如何愚弄鉴定家和客户的，至今依然是个谜。
“It’s impressive,” said Jack Flam, president of the Dedalus Foundation, the nonprofit organization that authenticates Motherwell’s work. “Whoever did these paintings was very well-informed of the practices of the artists.”
鉴定马瑟韦尔(Motherwell)作品的非营利组织代达罗斯基金会(Dedalus Foundation)会长杰克·弗朗(Jack Flam)说，“相当不错。不管是谁模仿了这些画作，此人肯定非常了解这些艺术家的作品。”
One of the first experts to publicly identify some of these paintings as forgeries, Mr. Flam noted that not only the works themselves, but also the backs of the paintings and the way the canvases were treated and the frames constructed aped the styles of the artists.
弗朗是最早公开甄别出其中一些画作是假画的专家之一，他指出，不仅假画本身，就连假画的背面以及处理画布的方式和画框结构都和原作者的风格相仿。
But he said “the way we look at reality is highly influenced by the context it’s presented to us.” The fact that they were sold by Knoedler, a respected gallery, influenced people’s opinions, he said.
不过他说，“现实所处的语境对我们看待现实的方式有很大影响。”他说，假画的卖家是受人尊敬的诺德勒画廊，这影响了人们的观点。
Ms. Rosales’s boyfriend and business partner processed the freshly painted fakes, “heating them, cooling them, and exposing them to the elements outdoors, in an attempt to make the fake works seem older than, in fact, they were,” the indictment said.
起诉书说，罗萨莱斯的男友和生意伙伴负责处理新绘制的假画，“他们试图让假画看上去比实际年头更久远，为此他们加热和冷却这些假画，把画作暴露于室外。”
Ms. Rosales concocted various stories about the sudden appearance of so many never-seen-before works, telling Knoedler and Mr. Weissman that a majority came from a family friend who had inherited them from his father and insisted on remaining anonymous. The works, she said, were acquired in the 1950s and kept stashed in a sealed container.
为了解释为何突然有这么多从未见过的作品面世，罗萨莱斯捏造了各式各样的故事，她对诺德勒画廊和韦斯曼说，其中大部分画作来自家中的一位朋友，这位朋友从他父亲那里继承了这些画作，而且坚持要求匿名。她说，这位朋友的父亲在20世纪50年代获得了这些作品，他把它们藏在一个封闭的容器里。
Eight lawsuits have been brought by customers who say they were duped into buying forgeries. Many of the works were subjected to forensic testing that concluded they were forgeries.
顾客们提出了八起诉讼，他们说，他们被骗购买了赝品。其中的许多作品都接受了司法鉴定，鉴定的结果证实它们是赝品。
Two of those suits were settled, including one involving a Pollock bought by a London hedge fund director for $17 million.
其中两起诉讼取得了和解，有一起是伦敦一家对冲基金的负责人以1700万美元购买了一幅波洛克的伪造品。
A lawyer for Ms. Rosales, Steven R. Kartagener, declined to comment on the new charges.
罗萨莱斯的辩护律师斯蒂文·R·卡特格纳(Steven R. Kartagener)拒绝对新指控发表评论。