When it’s dinnertime and Michele W. Miller’s husband, Jerome, has gone AWOL, Ms. Miller reflexively checks in with her co-op’s superintendent, Carlos Muñoz.
这天晚饭时间，米歇尔·W·米勒(Michele W. Miller)的丈夫杰罗姆(Jerome)“无故缺席了”。米勒太太条件反射地去问合作公寓的管理员卡洛斯·穆尼奥斯(Carlos Muñoz)。
Nine times out of 10, Mr. Miller is down in Mr. Muñoz’s apartment, where the two are watching sports, discussing their children or commiserating about their endless struggles to quit smoking. “Jerome will tell me, ‘I’ll be right back,’ and then doesn’t come for a few hours,” said Ms. Miller, a lawyer and novelist. “A few nights ago I texted Carlos and he wrote back that if I didn’t let Jerome eat there, he wouldn’t come up to do a repair.”
米勒先生要是晚饭时间还没回家，十有八九是在楼下穆尼奥斯的公寓里，两个人一起在看体育比赛，讨论孩子的事情，或是倾诉永远戒不掉烟瘾的苦闷。“杰罗姆会告诉我，他很快就回来，然后几个小时都不回来，”身为律师和小说家的米勒太太表示，“前几天我给卡洛斯发短信，他回复我说，要是我不让杰罗姆在他家吃饭，他就不会上楼帮我修东西了。”
The couple’s friendship with Mr. Muñoz began five years ago when they renovated the kitchen in their Hudson Heights apartment, and he moonlighted as the contractor. The bond solidified when, during a school vacation, Ms. Miller, the mother of twin boys, now 11, invited Mr. Muñoz’s twin daughters, now 13, to come up and hang out. One day when the baby sitter was unavailable and Ms. Miller wasn’t able to miss work, Mr. Muñoz stepped unto the breach and refused payment.
夫妇俩和穆尼奥斯之间的友谊始于五年前。当时，夫妇俩正在为哈德逊高地(Hudson Heights)的一套公寓装修厨房，而穆尼奥斯正是他们的兼职承包商。后来，米勒太太作为一对双胞胎男孩的母亲，邀请了穆尼奥斯的双胞胎女儿到家里玩，两家人的友谊就进一步加深了。有一天，由于保姆不在，而米勒太太又不能丢下工作，穆尼奥斯就帮她带孩子，而且不肯收钱。现在，米勒家的双胞胎儿子11岁了，而穆尼奥斯的双胞胎女儿13岁了。
Mr. Miller, meanwhile, has taken Mr. Muñoz’s daughters to the park and to the beach with his sons, and on several occasions has helped his buddy the super snake a drain and haul garbage. “Some of our fellow shareholders,” he said, “look at me like I’m crazy.”
同时，米勒先生也曾带穆尼奥斯的女儿们和自家的儿子们去公园和海滩，有几次还帮他的管理员朋友通过排水管、运过垃圾。“其他有些公寓股东看我的眼神很奇怪，”他说，“他们觉得我疯了。”
Well, maybe just a little crazy. It’s true that some New Yorkers confine their interactions with the doormen and the super to pleasantries — anodyne observations about the weather, perhaps disparaging comments about an underperforming sports team — and requests: Would you please give this package to the U.P.S. guy? Could you get me a cab? “They’re the employers” goes their thinking; the doormen and the super are the employees, service staff whose job it is to serve. Being friendly is one thing; being friends is another.  (Undoubtedly, plenty of doormen are similarly inclined to be courteous but distant.)
怎么说呢，可能是有那么一点疯狂吧。诚然，有些纽约人会刻意与门卫和管理员保持距离，平时见面只是寒暄一下，不痛不痒地聊聊天气，可能顺便炮轰一下某个垃圾球队，寒暄完之后就会要求对方办事：可不可帮我把这个包裹交给UPS快递员？可不可以帮我叫辆出租车？在他们眼里，“他们是老板”，门卫和管理员是雇员，是服务人员，其本职工作就是做好服务。对人友善是一码事，交朋友就是另一码事了（毫无疑问，许多门卫也同样倾向于保持礼貌与客套）。
But to others, like the Millers, the super is more than the guy who fixes the intractable leak under the kitchen sink, the doorman more than someone who ferries the groceries, delivers the mail and keeps watch on the security monitors. These men (and they are almost always men) are pals. They’re family, extended family perhaps, but family just the same.
但是对于像米勒这样的人来说，管理员不仅仅是整治厨房漏水难题的修理工，也不仅仅是运送食品杂货、递送邮件、盯着安全监控器的门卫，这些人（而且多数时候都是男人）就是兄弟。他们是家人，虽然可能只是广意上的，但是跟自家人也没什么两样。
Chances are you see them a lot more than you see people who really are family members. Chances are they know more about you and play a bigger role in your life than certain family members do, so what’s wrong with bringing them a latte and bagel from the corner Starbucks? And if you have an extra ticket, why not ask them to come along to the Yankees game?
比起某些真正意义上的家人，你跟他们打交道的次数可能要多得多。比起某些真正意义上的家人，他们对你的了解可能也更多，在你生活中发挥的作用可能也更大。既然如此，从街角的星巴克给他们带一杯拿铁、捎一份百吉饼(bagel)，又有何不可？如果你手里有多余的票，为什么不邀请他们一起观看洋基队(Yankees)的比赛呢？
“It’s understandable that building workers often become friendly with tenants, who they may see every day for years and sometimes decades,” said Kyle Bragg, the secretary-treasurer of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, which represents doormen. “It’s not unusual to find tenants who say their staff feels like ‘family.’ But similar to any other workplace, personal relationships shouldn’t interfere with workers’ ability to perform their jobs.”
“大楼管理员对房客态度友善，这并不难理解，毕竟他们天天抬头不见低头见，这种情况可能持续几年、甚至几十年，”服务业雇员国际工会（Service Employees International Union，简称SEIU）的32BJ分会（代表门卫）的财务秘书凯尔·布拉格(Kyle Bragg)说，“而房客称楼管就像自己的‘家人，这也并不稀奇。不过，私人关系不应影响到员工的工作表现，这一点在其他工作场合也是一样的。”
Kathy Braddock would argue that the existence of these personal relationships can actually enhance the ability of porters, doormen and supers to do their jobs — and can immeasurably benefit a building’s residents. “We are a city of service people,” said Ms. Braddock, a managing director of the real estate firm William Raveis New York City. “Every time you walk out your door, whether you go to the dry cleaner or the liquor store, you can create a relationship with those people that will make New York work for you. And part of making it work is having the staff of your building be your family,” continued Ms. Braddock, who has lived in the same Park Avenue building for 30 years, and has a quasi-kinfolk relationship with the recently retired superintendent, Fernando Duque.
而房地产公司William Raveis New York City的总经理凯西·布雷多克(Kathy Braddock)则会宣称，和业主的私人交情，其实会促使门卫、勤杂工和管理员更好地发挥工作能力——从而给楼内居民带来无穷的裨益。“这是一个由服务行业从业者组成的城市，”布雷多克说，“每当你走出家门，不管是去干洗店还是酒类商店，你都可以和那些人建立起交情，他们能让你在纽约生活得更顺心。使之更顺心的方法之一，就是把楼管当成自家人一样看待。”布雷多克接着说。她在公园大道的同一座建筑里生活了30年，她和最近刚刚退休的管理员费尔南多·杜克(Fernando Duque)建立了类似亲人的关系。
When, for example, Ms. Braddock was working full time and one of her sons was sick, Mr. Duque made it his business to make periodic visits upstairs to check on the patient and make chicken soup. When one of those sons was a teenager and the super observed him going up to the roof — a forbidden area — with some friends, “he made the assumption that the boys were doing something they shouldn’t be doing, scolded my son and came to tell me about the incident,” said Ms. Braddock, who was grateful for the intervention.
比方说，当布雷多克忙于全职工作，而她的一个儿子生病了，杜克就会时不时地跑上楼去探望病人，给他煲制鸡汤。还有一次，布雷多克的另一个儿子在十几岁时，跟朋友爬上了原本禁止入内的屋顶，被杜克撞见了，“他估计孩子们在做不该做的事情，就把我儿子训斥了一顿，回来跟我说了这件事情，”布雷多克说，她很感激杜克的及时介入。
“I’ve been out to dinner with the super’s family and traded recipes with his wife,” she added. “I offered his children some guidance when they were getting ready to apply to college, and I gave his daughter-in-law advice about her decorating business.” More recently, just before the super ended his tenure, “he came up to my apartment, we had a bottle of wine and talked about life and change and our kids,” Ms. Braddock said.
“我跟管理员一家人出去吃过饭，还跟他老婆交流过食谱，”她补充道，“他家的孩子们申请大学的时候，我给过一些建议。我还帮他做装潢的儿媳出过些主意。”最近，就在杜克退休前，“他来我家坐了坐，我们开了瓶红酒，边喝边聊生活，聊变化，聊孩子。”布雷多克说。
Before Arlene Kagle met the man who would become her second husband, several of the staff members of her co-op on West End Avenue were included in her will. The dollar figure wasn’t huge, but there they were, all listed as beneficiaries — the super, the handyman and the night elevator man, Mario Reyes.
艾琳·卡格尔(Arlene Kagle)住在西区大道(West End Avenue)的一间合作公寓里。在她遇到未来的第二任丈夫之前，她把好几名公寓物业人员列入了遗嘱名单。遗产不多，不过管理员、勤杂工和夜间电梯员马里奥·雷耶斯(Mario Reyes)都在受益人之列。
“I was divorced, and next to my brother and my parents they were the closest thing to family I had,” said Dr. Kagle, a psychologist in New York and Richmond, Va. “They looked after me. They worried about me, and I wanted them to know that if anything happened to me that what they had done hadn’t gone unnoticed or unappreciated.”
“我离婚了，除了我父母和我哥哥之外，他们就是跟我关系最近的人，”卡格尔说。卡格尔是纽约和弗吉尼亚州里士满的心理学从业者。“他们照顾我，担心我。我想让他们知道，他们对我的关照我一直铭记在心，万一我有什么不测，他们不会得不到回报。”
“I remember having a terrible blind date,” she recalled, “and he was angling for a second date as we stood in the lobby and I tried to edge away.” Fortunately, Mr. Reyes was on duty and read her body language with a clarity that was lost on her suitor. “As soon as I took a step into the elevator,” she said, “Mario slammed the gate in the guy’s face and whisked me up to my apartment.”
“我记得有一次相亲经历很可怕，”她回忆道，“那个男的拐弯抹角地还想再约一次会，当时我们站在大厅里，我想拒绝他。”幸好雷耶斯当时正在值班，他从她的肢体语言中完全领会了她的意思，而她的追求者浑然不知。“我一走进电梯，”她说，“马里奥就在那个男的面前把门砰地关上了，然后火速把我送回了公寓。”
For her part, Dr. Kagle helped a doorman’s son snag a summer job, counseled him about appropriate workplace behavior and took the superintendent and his family out to dinner.
卡格尔也做出了一番表示。她帮助一名门卫的儿子争取到了暑期实习机会，给他传授了待人接物的职场经验，还请管理员一家出去吃了顿饭。
Some shareholders have taken it a step further, inviting doormen for a weekend in the Hamptons or offering them the use of a vacation property, and some service staff members have availed themselves of the opportunity.
有些公寓股东所做的还要更进一步——邀请门卫周末去汉普顿(Hamptons)度假，或者借给他们使用自己的某处度假屋。有些服务人员接受了这份好意。
That would not be considered appropriate for employees in one of the 600 buildings managed by FirstService Residential. “The roles of doormen, porters and superintendents must remain purely professional,” said Dan Wurtzel, the firm’s president. “They cannot form friendships with individual residents, because that will foster an environment of favoritism, a perception that not all residents are treated equally,” he said. “Word gets around that you took the super out for a drink or for dinner and people start to think, ‘Oh, now he’s going to do this and that for the resident.’ ”
FirstService住宅管理公司(FirstService Residential Management)认为，员工做出这样的行为是不合适的。“门卫、勤杂工和管理员的职责在于，他们必须保持纯粹的专业素养，”公司总裁丹·维特塞尔(Dan Wurtzel)表示，“他们不能和居住者建立私交，因为这样会滋生裙带关系，让人们觉得，并不是所有住户都得到了平等的对待。”他说，“一旦你请管理员出去喝酒或吃饭，消息传开后，人们就会觉得，‘噢，这下他以后肯定要为那个住户跑前跑后了。’”
According to Mr. Wurtzel, whose company has an employee handbook spelling out the proper terms of engagement with residents, it’s perfectly fine for a doorman or a porter who pulls Thanksgiving duty to accept a plate of turkey and stuffing from a resident, and fine to say yes when a shareholder who’s moving out of the building offers a castoff couch or flat-screen television. But it’s probably not O.K. to say yes to drinks, dinner or the Hamptons. (Employees are required to run such invites past their supervisors.)
维特塞尔的公司制定了员工手册，规定员工与住户打交道的行为规范。据维特塞尔表示，感恩节当天当值的门卫或勤杂工完全可以收下居民赠送的一盘火鸡和填料，可以在公寓股东搬走时收下他们不要的沙发或纯平电视。但是，受邀与居民一起出去吃饭、喝酒或在汉普顿度假，或许就不合适了（受到此类邀请的员工必须向上级汇报）。
“Can you imagine how it would be perceived if the individual offering the invitation were on the board of the building and at some point there were problems with this employee?” Mr. Wurtzel said. “It gets hard to make objective decisions when you’re dealing with a friend.”
“假如邀请者是管委会的成员，而受邀的员工在工作上出现了问题，你知道别人会怎么想吗？”维特塞尔说，“你在跟朋友打交道的时候，很难做出客观的决定。”
Lois Tamir and Laura Finfer, the principals at Leadership Excellence Consulting, view condos and co-ops as variants of an organization. “Key to a well-functioning organization,” they wrote in an email, “is clarity about roles.” With ambiguity come risks. When a professional relationship crosses into friendship, they continued, “It can put the professionalism of the staff into question and create discomfort for observers because the roles of the players are now unclear.”
罗伊斯·塔米尔(Lois Tamir)和劳拉·芬费尔(Laura Finfer)是咨询公司Leadership Excellence Consulting的负责人，他们将共管公寓和合作公寓视为组织机构的变体。“一个组织机构保持良好运转的关键，就在于职责分明。”他们在一封邮件中写道。一旦职责模糊，就会造成风险。他们还表示，一旦职业关系发生越界，发展成为友谊，“这可能会使员工的职业素养出现问题，也会给旁观者造成困扰，因为现在当事人的职责不清晰了。”
Suddenly home sweet home starts to seem just as political as the office. Steven R. Wagner, a real estate lawyer at Porzio, Bromberg & Newman, is the counsel for a co-op whose superintendent has a close relationship with an elderly shareholder. His appointed rounds — for no additional remuneration — include going to the resident’s apartment and checking on him to make sure everything is O.K.
突然之间，甜蜜的家变得像办公室一样充满政治斗争了。法律咨询公司Porzio, Bromberg & Newman的房地产律师史蒂文·R·瓦格纳(Steven R. Wagner)是一处共管公寓的管委会顾问。该公寓的管理员与一名老股东关系很近，他日常的本职工作包括走访居民们的公寓，确保一切正常。
“The super is not the best super,” Mr. Wagner said. “He’s a little lackadaisical about his chores, but because he has this friendship with this elderly man who’s a former board member and very influential, residents are reluctant to take steps to do anything.”
“那个管理员不是最好的管理员，”瓦格纳说，“他对日常工作有点懒散，但是因为他和那位老先生有交情，而那位老先生以前是管委会成员，很有影响力，所以居民们都不愿意采取任何行动。”
Mr. Wagner also tells of a building staff member who, when he was dismissed by the board of an East Side co-op, lobbied the shareholders he had befriended to stage a coup. It was unsuccessful.
瓦格纳还提到了一名公寓员工，此人被东区一处合作公寓的管委会开除后，游说了他平日里交情较好的股东，准备发动“政变”，但没有成功。
For some building residents, being chummy with the service staff is just part of their personality. “I tend to be friendly with everyone,” said Dan Nainan, an Intel engineer turned comedian and motivational speaker who lives in a co-op in Chelsea. “I’m friendly with my neighbors and walk their dogs, and I’m friendly with the doormen and fix their computers and don’t charge them,” said Mr. Nainan, who routinely invites the doormen and the super to his parties and has taken the super, Jose Noel Medina, to a concert.
对于有些居民来说，与服务人员联络感情只是他们的性格使然。“我对每个人都很友好，”丹·奈南(Dan Nainan)说。奈南曾是英特尔的工程师，现在是一名喜剧演员、励志演说者，住在切尔西区(Chelsea)的一间合作公寓里。“我跟邻居关系很好，会帮他们遛狗。我跟门卫关系也很好，会免费帮他们修电脑，”奈南说，他经常邀请门卫和管理员参加他的派对，还曾邀请管理员乔斯·诺尔·麦迪那(Jose Noel Medina)一起去听音乐会。
For others it’s family tradition. “I grew up in the city and the super and the doormen were my mother’s best friends,” said Brett Beldock, an interior designer. “She was a single parent and if she was running late at work, they came up to look in on my brother and me.”
对于其他人来说，这是家庭传统。“我从小在城市长大，管理员和门卫是我妈最好的朋友，”室内设计师布蕾特·贝尔多克(Brett Beldock)说，“她是单亲妈妈，要是她下班回家晚了，他们就会到楼上来照看我和哥哥。”
Before her recent move to a condo in Harlem, Ms. Beldock lived on the Upper East Side in a rental building whose doormen became an extension of her interior design business. “They would approve wallpaper samples for me,” she said. They would also comment on blind dates, calling Ms. Beldock on the intercom and giving her a whispered preview. Whenever she gave a party or went to a holiday family dinner, she took food to the staff. “I’m back to my familial ways in my new building,” Ms. Beldock said. “The doormen know how my company works. They’ll examine what’s being delivered and make sure everything is right.”
贝尔多克最近搬到了哈莱姆区(Harlem)的一处共管公寓，此前，她住在上东区的一间出租公寓，那里的门卫成为了她在室内设计领域的得力助手。“他们会帮我挑壁纸样品，”她说。他们还是相亲参谋，会用对讲机呼叫贝尔多克，小声透露相亲对象的情况。每次举办派对或参加假日家庭聚餐时，她都会带食物给公寓员工。“我在新公寓找到了家一般的感觉，”贝尔多克说，“门卫知道我的公司是怎么运转的，他们会检查派送的货物，确保一切正常。”
She acknowledged that some residents are much more formal than she. “But if you have a more personal relationship with the staff I think you get so much more.”
她承认，有些居民对待公寓员工们的态度比她要正式得多。“但是如果你跟员工们的私交更好，我想你得到的也会多很多。”
Sarah Knapp, for example, is getting help with her Spanish. “I have multiple doormen and I have a friendship with one of them,” said Ms. Knapp, founder of Outdoor Fest, an event that connects New Yorkers with al fresco adventures. “I told him I was trying to learn Spanish, and whenever there’s time, he works on it with me.”
比如，莎拉·纳普(Sarah Knapp)在学西班牙语的过程中就得到了帮助。“我们公寓有好几个门卫，我跟其中一个成为了朋友，”Outdoor Fest的创始人纳普表示。Outdoor Fest是一项旨在促进纽约人参与户外探险的活动。“我跟他说，我在试着学西语。于是他每次一有时间就陪我一起学。”
He’ll correct her when she muddles the past tense, and additionally, several times a week, the two will talk — in English — about their families and work. When she left her job and began her own company, Ms. Knapp, who lives in a co-op in Brooklyn, talked to the doorman about her life shift, “and he was very supportive. He’s just really nice and awesome and friendly.”
每当她弄错过去式的用法时，他就会纠正她的错误。除此之外，每个星期都会有几次，两人会用英语交流，聊他们的家庭和工作。纳普现在住在布鲁克林的一间合作公寓。当初她辞职创业时，跟门卫谈到了自己生活上的重大变化，“他很支持我。他人真的很好，很体贴，很友善。”
“With him,” she said, “it’s more like ‘Welcome home,’ rather than ‘Let me open the door for you and then I’m going to close it.’ ”
“和他打交道的时候，”她说，“感觉他传达出来的信息更像是‘欢迎回家’，而不是‘让我替你开门，然后我得把它关上’。”
Jerome Miller, a marketing manager turned high school chemistry teacher, said that when something in the apartment is broken, it might get fixed more quickly thanks to his relationship with the superintendent, Mr. Muñoz. “If he’s visiting, I’ll say: ‘Will you take a look at this?’ ” he said. But, Mr. Miller hastily added, “that isn’t the basis of the relationship. Carlos is my friend. We have similar values. I understand a lot of his challenges and he understands my challenges. There’s nothing we don’t talk about.”
杰罗姆·米勒(Jerome Miller)以前是市场营销经理，后来成为了一名高中化学老师。他表示，每次公寓里有什么东西坏掉了，都能更快地得到修理，这得拜他和管理员穆尼奥斯的友谊所赐。“要是他刚好来我家做客，我就会说，‘可不可以帮我看下这个？’”他说。不过，米勒急忙补充道，“我们之间的友谊并不是以这个为基础的。卡洛斯是我朋友，我们有相似的价值观。我了解他的许多难处，他也了解我的难处。我们无话不谈。”