Tonight, the restaurant the Writing Room opens on the Upper East Side in the space formerly known as Elaine’s. The old establishment was legendary for playing host to a wide range of New York literati, from Woody Allen to Nora Ephron, and other famous creative types, like Andy Warhol and Clint Eastwood. The new place, owned by Michael and Susy Glick, pays homage to the rich 48-year history of Elaine’s and its patrons.
今晚，“写作屋”(the Writing Room)餐馆在上东区Elaine's餐馆的旧址开业。传奇的Elaine’s餐馆曾接待过纽约的各种文人，从伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)到诺拉·艾芙隆(Nora Ephron)，以及其他一些著名的创意人士，比如安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)和克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)。新餐馆的主人迈克尔和苏西·格利克(Michael and Susy Glick)向Elaine's餐馆48年的丰富历史及其主顾们致敬。
The biggest difference at 1703 Second Avenue is the addition of a back room called the Study. It’s a large, dimly lit room, just behind the main dining area, lined with books. To come up with the titles, the Glicks hired Thatcher Wine, the guy who created the cozy library for the Nomad Hotel bar. He sought to curate a collection that looked like it belonged there: “something that referenced the history of Elaine’s … with subtle references to the customers and famous literary clientele,” he explains. He ended up with a mix of visually pleasing books, New York-specific works and titles by former Elaine’s customers, like “Harlot’s Ghost” by Norman Mailer, “Unto the Sons” by Gay Talese, “Omerta” by Mario Puzo and “Findings” by Leonard Bernstein.
第二大道1703号最大的不同是后面加了一个房间，名叫“书房”。它是个宽敞的、灯光柔和的房间，就在主用餐区后面，旁边摆了一排书。格利克夫妇雇佣撒切尔·瓦恩(Thatcher Wine)来选书，后者曾为诺曼德酒店(Nomad Hotel)的酒吧设计了一个舒适的图书馆。他努力寻找了一些看起来属于这里的书：“一些跟Elaine’s餐馆的历史有关的书……与那些著名的文人顾客有着微妙的关联，”他解释说。他选的书包括视觉上很吸引人的书，跟纽约有关的书以及Elaine’s餐馆的顾客写的书，比如诺曼·梅勒(Norman Mailer)的《哈洛特的鬼魂》(Harlot’s Ghost)，盖伊·塔利斯(Gay Talese)的《移民世家》(Unto the Sons)，马里奥·普佐(Mario Puzo)的《拒绝作证》(Omerta)，以及莱昂纳德·伯恩斯坦(Leonard Bernstein)的《发现》(Findings)。
Through his Boulder, Colo.-based company Juniper Books, Wine offers beautifully covered sets designed to look nicer than the originals. For some clients, he even custom-covers supersize sets of books to fit the personality of a room. But for the Writing Room, he left the volumes alone, letting their age, color and subjects create the feeling of a home library. They’re meant to be picked up, flipped through and enjoyed.
瓦恩在科罗拉多州博尔德市开了一家名叫朱尼珀书装(Juniper Books)的公司，专门给书设计好看的封套，让它们看起来更漂亮。为了彰显房间的个性，他甚至给某些客户设计了超大封套。但是，“写作屋”的书他都保持原样，让这些书的年龄、颜色和主题营造一种家庭图书馆的感觉，希望人们能拿起这些书翻阅、享受。