It did not take a degree in merchandising for Melina Shannon-DiPietro, an executive of Friends of the High Line, to realize that there was a retail opportunity waiting to be tapped at the elevated-railway-turned-park.
对于非盈利组织高线之友(Friends of the High Line)的执行官梅利娜·香农-迪彼得罗(Melina Shannon-DiPietro)来说，即便没有专门学过商业推销，也能发现在这座高架铁路改建而成的公园里，有一个尚待挖掘的零售业商机。
“We had visitors asking the gardeners and custodians if they could buy the shirts off their back,” Ms. Shannon-DiPietro said.
“总有访客来问我们的园丁和管理员，可否买到他们身上所穿的这种衬衫，”香农-迪彼得罗说。
Taking a cue from the well-oiled machine of museum retailing, some high-profile parks in New York City have added a new activity to the traditional list of dog walking, bird-watching and jogging: shopping for parks-branded merchandise.
纽约市内的一些颇有知名度的公园，从博物馆里红火的零售业务中学到了经验，在原有的遛狗、观鸟与慢跑活动之余，为公园访客们增加了一个新项目：购买印有公园商标的商品。
In person and online, the High Line now sells $800,000 a year worth of tote bags, gardening tools and even High Line socks. Most of the park’s 100 products were added this year.
通过实体店面和在线商店，高线公园现在一年销售掉价值80万美元（约合人民币497万元）的大手提袋、园艺工具，甚至是印着“高线公园”的袜子。
“In 2009, we had six items online — things like logo T-shirts and baseball caps,” Ms. Shannon-DiPietro said. “But the High Line is so much about design, and we have since responded to the desire for pieces from emerging designers and artists in New York.”
“2009年，我们的在线商店推出了六种商品——比如印着商标的T恤衫和棒球帽，”迪彼得罗说，“但高线公园是一座极其注重设计的公园，于是我们后来响应大家所需，请了纽约市的一些新兴设计师和艺术家来为我们设计产品。”
This year, for the first time, the holiday market in Bryant Park includes a booth for the Midtown park itself, where, on a recent weekday, shoppers could choose from a set of four bluestone Bryant Park coasters etched with leaves ($38); a 1,000-piece puzzle showing an aerial view of a square dance in the park ($28); and a silk necktie imprinted with the signature bistro chairs that dot the park’s lawn in summer ($78). The actual chairs are also available, for $125 each, on the park’s website.
今年（2014年——译注），中城区的布莱恩特公园(Bryant Park)也头一次在节日市集中为他们自己加上了一个摊位。在最近的一个开放日，买家们从这个摊位上可以选购布莱恩特公园蚀有叶形花纹的青石杯垫，一套四枚（售价38美元[约合人民币236元]）；也可以挑一套1000片的拼图玩具，拼出该公园里举办的一场广场舞会的鸟瞰图（售价28美元[约合人民币174]）；还可买到印有公园标志性的酒馆椅(bistro chairs)图案的丝绸领带，那些椅子在夏季点缀着公园的草坪（售价78美元[约合人民币484.2元]）；而真正的椅子，也可以从公园的网上商店里找到，每把售价是125美元（约合人民币776元）。
Daniel A. Biederman, president of the Bryant Park Management Corporation, said that for now the revenue from the retail enterprise was modest, especially compared with income the park receives from its business improvement district, park-based restaurants and corporate sponsorships.
布莱恩特公园管理公司( Bryant Park Management Corporation)的总裁丹尼尔·A·彼得曼(Daniel A. Biederman)说，目前来看，公园每年从零售店获得的收入仍然有限，尤其无法与园方从其他途径获得的收入相比，比如公园内的商业发展区、餐厅以及企业的赞助。
But those sources also started out small, he noted, and have since grown to cover the annual operating budget of $11.4 million for the park, which receives no government support. “We have 76 products, and this year we’ll gross about $40,000,” Mr. Biederman said. “There’s so much affection for Bryant Park that we’ll figure out a way to push the goods out.”
不过他提到，那些途径的收入最开始也不多，但后来逐步增长，并填补了这座公园每年用于运营的1140万美元（约合人民币7077万元）预算。“我们已经推出76种产品，今年的总收入约有4万美元（约合人民币25万元），”彼得曼说，“布莱恩特公园倍受游客青睐，所以我们有办法把那些商品推销出去。”
It probably is not surprising that parks have gotten into the retail game, as they increasingly look for sources of revenue outside the public sector; zoos and botanical gardens have been doing this for years. And with tourism in New York thriving, it seems that visitors want to take home a piece of the city’s parks.
随着各家公园开始寻求公共领域之外的收入来源，它们纷纷加入了零售业的角逐，也许就并不令人意外了；而且，动物园和植物园多年来一直都在这样做。随着纽约旅游业的逐渐兴旺，游客们似乎都想买一件纽约公园的纪念品回家。
In the last fiscal year, the Central Park Conservancy, the nonprofit organization that manages the park on behalf of the city, sold $750,000 worth of merchandise, up 10 percent over two years. Now available: park-themed snow globes ($55); glass ornaments hand-painted with images of Bow Bridge, Bethesda Fountain and the bronze statue of the heroic dog Balto ($20.99); and Obelisk bookmarks ($10.99), along with the usual tote bags and ball caps.
中央公园管理局(Central Park Conservancy)是代表纽约市管理中央公园的非盈利机构。在上一财年中，该机构总共销售了75万美元(约合人民币466万元)的商品，这个数字在两年间上涨了10%。他们目前在售的商品有：以中央公园为主题的雪景玻璃球（售价55美元[约合人民币341元]）；带有弓桥(Bow Bridge)、毕士达喷泉(Bethesda Fountain)和英勇的巴尔托狗铜像(the bronze statue of the heroic dog Balto)等手绘玻璃装饰品（售价20.99美元[约合人民币130元]），以及常见的大手提袋和棒球帽。
The conservancy now has three permanent retail outlets in the park, at the Dairy Visitor Center, Belvedere Castle and the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center. For the first time this year, it also has a booth at the Columbus Circle holiday market.
该管理局已在中央公园里开设了三家长期的零售店，分别位于乳制品商店游客中心(Dairy Visitor Center)、眺望台城堡(Belvedere Castle)和查尔斯·A·达纳探索中心(Charles A. Dana Discovery Center)。而今年，公园初次在哥伦布环岛(Columbus Circle)的节日市集上也拥有了一处摊位。
Still, the retail sales do not represent a major revenue stream for the conservancy, which has achieved extraordinary success in private fund-raising.
不过，对于这家在民间筹资领域已经做得相当成功的管理机构来说，其零售店的销售业绩还算不上公园年收入的主要来源。
“When you consider staff salaries and facility costs, we really don’t profit all that much,” said Elizabeth Kaledin, a spokeswoman for the conservancy. “Our retail arm is all about elevating the visitor experience and raising awareness about the Central Park Conservancy’s work and ‘brand.'”
“考虑到员工薪水与设施维护的成本，我们的利润并没有那么丰厚，”该管理局的一位发言人伊丽莎白·卡列金(Elizabeth Kaledin)说，“我们设立零售店，完全是为了提升游客体验，并让人们意识到中央公园管理局的工作，提高品牌知名度。”
The city’s parks department sells its own branded merchandise from within its headquarters — the Arsenal Building in Central Park, at Fifth Avenue and 64th Street. Until a few years ago, most of the merchandise appealed mainly to staff members who worked for the department.
纽约市的公园管理部(parks department)也在其总部——位于第五大道与64街之间、中央公园内的阿森纳大厦(Arsenal Building)——出售其自有品牌的商品。直至几年前，他们的大部分商品吸引到的买家，主要还是那些为该部门工作的人。
Christine T. Dabrow, the department’s director of marketing, said, however, that the store’s inventory had recently expanded to include 24 items, including choices likely to appeal more to tourists, like hot-pink baseball caps featuring the agency’s leaf logo ($10); a World’s Fair tote bag ($5); and a “selfie stick” ($15) — a mini-tripod for that ubiquitous park activity.
但是，该部门的营销主管克里斯汀·T·达布劳(Christine T. Dabrow)说，他们商店的产品清单现已扩展到了24项品类，包括许多对游客更具吸引力的商品，比如带有该机构叶形标志的桃红色棒球帽（售价10美元[约合人民币62元]）、带有世界博览会(World's Fair)标志的大手提袋（售价5美元[约合人民币31元]），以及公园里随便什么活动都能用到的一种迷你三脚架——“自拍棒”(selfie stick)（售价15美元[约合人民币93元]）。
“We’ve created products that have a much broader appeal,” Ms. Dabrow said. “I feel that owning parks merchandise creates a fuzzy, warm feeling towards us, and maybe then people will think in terms of supporting us in other ways.”
“我们已经设计了一些对大众更有吸引力的产品，”达布劳说，“我觉得，游客拥有了公园的特色商品，就会对我们产生一种暖暖的感觉，那样的话，人们或许也会考虑通过其他方式来支持我们。”
Most parks — even big ones with well-established conservancies — do not bother with merchandising. The Prospect Park Alliance in Brooklyn, for example, said that creating a sophisticated retail program would be time-consuming and costly, and that the return might not justify the expense. The alliance does let people buy trees and benches, but those stay in the park (with a plaque to commemorate the purchase). Neither Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx nor Flushing Meadows Park in Queens sells branded items.
但是大多数公园，甚至那些已经具备成熟管理机构的大公园，都不愿大费周章地推销商品。例如，布鲁克林区的展望公园联盟(Prospect Park Alliance)说，开展复杂的零售业活动会是一种既耗时、又费钱的事，而且回报可能无法与支出相抵。该联盟的确也会让人们认购树木和长椅，但那些都是公园里的固定设施（上面会挂一块标明购买者的牌匾，以示纪念）。目前，无论是布朗克斯区的范特克兰公园(Van Cortlandt Park)，还是皇后区的法拉盛草场公园(Flushing Meadows Park)，都没有销售自己的品牌商品。
But Battery Park, at the foot of Manhattan, is venturing into merchandising this spring when its new SeaGlass Carousel, with 30 luminous fish figures, opens to the public. Gifts related to the park and the carousel will be sold at a new kiosk. “We want any item that we develop to really tell the story of the Battery,” said Warrie Price, founder and president of the Battery Conservancy, which supports the park.
但在今年春天，位于曼哈顿最南端的炮台公园(Battery Park)开始进军商品零售业了。该公园新建的那座带有30种发光鱼形木马的海洋主题玻璃旋转木马(SeaGlass Carousel)，也同时对公众开放。与公园和木马相关的礼品，将在一个新建的摊位上销售。“我们希望，我们自己开发的这些商品确实都是和炮台息息相关的。”炮台公园管理局的创建人兼总裁沃利·普莱斯(Warrie Price)说。该机构旨在支持公园的日常运营。