A New York City police officer was arraigned on Wednesday in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn on several felony charges, including second-degree manslaughter, in the fatal shooting of an unarmed man in an East New York housing project last November.
周三，纽约市的一名警察因包括二级过失杀人在内的多项重罪指控，被传讯至布鲁克林的州最高法院。去年11月，这名警察在纽约东区的一幢居民楼开枪打死了一名手无寸铁的男子。
The officer, Peter Liang, appeared in a suit and tie and stood silently as the charges were read against him in the death of the man, Akai Gurley: the top charge of manslaughter as well as criminally negligent homicide and second-degree assault, both felonies, and misdemeanor charges of reckless endangerment and two counts of official misconduct.
身着西装领带现身的彼得·梁(Peter Liang)默默地站着，听法院宣读他在阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)之死一案中面临的指控：除最严重的过失杀人指控外，他还被控刑事疏忽致死和二级攻击两项重罪，以及危害他人安全轻罪指控和两项渎职指控。
“It is important to note that there are no winners here,” the Brooklyn district attorney, Kenneth P. Thompson, said in a news conference after the court hearing. “We don’t believe that Officer Liang intended to kill Mr. Gurley," whom he described as a father, brother, friend and companion to those who knew him.
“指出本案中没有赢家这一点很重要，”布鲁克林地区检察官肯尼思·P·汤普森(Kenneth P. Thompson)在听证会结束后的新闻发布会上说。“我们不认为梁警官是故意杀害格利的。”他说，对认识格利的人来说，他是父亲、兄弟、朋友和伴侣。
“But he had his finger on the trigger, and he fired the gun,” Mr. Thompson continued. “That is our position.” He added that Officer Liang did so “when there was no threat.”
“但他把手指放到了扳机上，开了枪，”汤普森接着说。“这就是我们的立场。”他还说，梁警官这么做时“并没有受到威胁”。
The first New York City officer indicted in more than two years in connection with a fatal on-duty encounter, Officer Liang left his Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, apartment early on Wednesday and turned himself in at a precinct station house in Downtown Brooklyn.
这是两年多来，纽约市首次有警察因与当班时发生的一次致人死亡事件有牵连而受到指控。周三一早，这名梁姓警察离开位于布鲁克林区本索恩赫斯特的公寓，前往布鲁克林下城的一个区级警局自首。
He stood before Justice Daniel Chun in a Brooklyn courtroom packed with news media and many of Mr. Gurley’s relatives and supporters.
在布鲁克林的一个法庭上，他站在大法官丹尼尔·千(Daniel Chun)的面前。法庭上挤满了新闻媒体和格利的很多亲人和支持者。
Officer Liang pleaded not guilty, and the prosecutor, Marc J. Fliedner, who is chief of the civil rights division in the district attorney’s office, recommended that he be released on his own recognizance, saying the officer did not pose a significant risk to the community. Justice Chun approved the request.
梁警官否认有罪，在地区检察官办公室担任公民权利部门负责人的检察官马克·J·弗利德纳(Marc J. Fliedner)建议，可在收取保证金后释放这名警察，称他并未对相关社区构成重大危险。丹尼尔·千大法官批准了这一请求。
After the hearing, Mr. Thompson laid out details from his office’s investigation into the shooting.
听证会结束后，汤普森介绍了他的办公室在调查这起枪击事件时了解到的细节。
Less than 18 months into his career in the Police Department, Officer Liang, 27, was on patrol in the Louis H. Pink Houses in Brooklyn on Nov. 20 with another officer when he entered a the building stairwell. His gun was in his left hand, a flashlight in the other, Mr. Thompson said.
去年11月20日，27岁的梁警官与另一名警官在布鲁克林的路易斯·H·平克住宅区巡逻时，走进了一栋楼的楼梯间。汤普森说，当时，成为警察尚不足18个月的梁警官左手握枪，另一只手里拿着手电筒。
The officer fired a single bullet that ricocheted off a wall and hit Mr. Gurley as he entered the stairs on the floor below.
这名警察开了一枪，但子弹从墙上弹了回来，击中了格利。后者当时正踏上下一层楼的楼梯。
Fatally struck, Mr. Gurley, 28, descended two floors before collapsing near the fifth-floor landing. At the same time, the two officers retreated back from the stairwell, closing the door and arguing for four minutes about whether to call in the gunshot, Mr. Thompson said.
28岁的格利受了致命伤，在下了两层楼后倒在了五楼楼梯平台附近。汤普森说，与此同时，当事的两名警察从楼梯间退了出来，关上了门，并就是否要汇报开枪一事争论了四分钟。
“Officer Liang during that discussion with his partner refused to call in the shot while they were on the eighth floor,” he said.
“在与搭档讨论期间，梁警官拒绝汇报开枪一事。当时，他们在八楼，”他说。
Mr. Thompson did not say that the officers knew during their argument that someone had been shot.
汤普森没有说警官们在讨论中知道了有人被击中。
Within hours, the police commissioner, William J. Bratton, called the shooting a “tragic accident” and described Mr. Gurley as “totally innocent."
之后不到数小时，警察局长威廉·J·布拉顿( William J. Bratton)称这起枪击案是个“意外的悲剧”，并称格利“完全是清白的”。
A grand jury heard evidence in the case last week and on Tuesday returned an indictment against Officer Liang, deciding that enough probable cause existed in the case for a criminal trial.
上周，一个大陪审团对该案进行了听证。本周二他们发回了针对梁警官的起诉书，决定这个案子有足够多的理由进行刑事审判。
Advocates for police accountability welcomed the indictment and contrasted the result in Brooklyn, where Mr. Thompson, newly elected as district attorney, has championed criminal justice reform, with the decision reached two months earlier by a grand jury on Staten Island in the police killing of Eric Garner. In that case, the grand jury found no basis for a criminal trial to proceed against an officer who used a chokehold to restrain Mr. Garner before his death.
警察问责活动的提倡者对这份起诉书表示了欢迎，并将布鲁克林的结果与两个月前的一个决定进行了对比，那个决定是斯塔顿岛的一个大陪审团做出的，他们认为警察杀死埃里克·加纳(Eric Garner)一案没有进行刑事审判的理由。加纳死前曾被一名警察用锁喉方式控制行动。布鲁克林新当选的地区检察官汤普森倡导刑事司法改革。
The death of Mr. Gurley, who was black, occurred in the midst of national protests over the use of deadly force by officers when encountering unarmed black men, including Mr. Garner and Michael Brown, who was fatally shot in Ferguson, Mo.
格利是个黑人，他死亡时，全国都在抗议警员用致命武力对待手无寸铁的黑人男子的情况，比如加纳和在密苏里州弗格森遭到枪杀的迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)。
Mr. Gurley’s death fueled calls for a change in police policy for conducting so-called vertical patrols in New York’s housing developments during which officers, on the lookout for crime inside the hallways and staircases, often proceed with their guns drawn.
由于格利的死亡，要求改变警方在纽约大型住宅区“垂直巡逻”政策的呼吁变得更加强烈。“垂直巡逻”是指警员在走廊和楼梯间寻找犯罪迹象，他们这时通常会手握枪支。
“The screw-up in my opinion is vertical policing,” said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who had called for an indictment from the start. “I think the policy of vertical policing needs to be changed. The grand jury said it was cause for a criminal trial.”
“在我看来，问题在于垂直巡逻，”从一开始就要求起诉的阿尔·沙普顿牧师(Al Sharpton)说。“我认为需要改变垂直巡逻的政策。大陪审团说这是需要进行刑事审判的原因。”
Mr. Thompson took pains to disclaim any political agenda, and said the process was focused on one officer, not the entire Police Department or any national debate.
汤普森反复强调，他的所作所为不含任何政治动机，他表示，这件事聚焦在一名警官身上，而不是整个警察局或任何全国性的辩论上。
“This case has nothing to do with Ferguson or Eric Garner or any other case,” he said.
“这个案子和弗格森及埃里克·加纳无关，和任何其他案子无关，”他说。
Unlike in the earlier cases, in which the officers justified their use of force to grand jurors who later did not return indictments, Officer Liang did not testify in the grand jury hearing.
在以前的类似案件中，警官在大陪审团成员面前进行了自辩，给出使用武力的理由，随后大陪审团没有发回起诉书。但本次梁警官没有在大陪审团听证时作证。
At the arraignment, Mr. Fliedner argued that Officer Liang took a “substantial and unjustifiable risk” to others by drawing his gun in the stairwell, and described the officer’s conduct in harsh terms, detailing how, he said, the officer did not do anything to help Mr. Gurley after he fired the shot.
在传讯时，弗利德纳表示，梁姓警官在楼梯间拔出枪支，给他人造成了“巨大的、不合理的风险”，并用严厉的语言描述他的行为，说梁警官在击中格利之后，没有做任何事情来帮助他。
Instead, “he just stood there,” Mr. Fliedner said — the basis for the two counts of official misconduct the officer is charged with.
相反，“他只是站在那里，”弗利德纳说——这是梁警官被控两项渎职罪名的根据。
Departing from standard procedure, Officer Liang’s lawyer, Stephen C. Worth, also asked the judge to speak in court about the case. “I have no intention of trying the case here,” he said, but he called the prosecutors’ description of events a ”contorted theory.” “Something had to be said at this point,” he said.
与标准程序不同的是，梁警官的律师斯蒂芬·C·沃斯(Stephen C. Worth)也要求法官在法庭上讲讲这个案子。“我无意在此审判此案，”他说，但检察官对事情经过的描述是“歪曲的假设”。“这时候，有话一定要讲，”他说。