NEW YORK — Mayor Bill de Blasio called for protesters to suspend demonstrations in the aftermath of the killing of two New York City police officers, who were gunned down Saturday afternoon in Brooklyn as they sat in their patrol car.
纽约——在纽约市两名坐在巡逻车里的警员周六下午在布鲁克林被枪杀后，市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)呼吁抗议者暂时停止示威活动。
 “It’s time for everyone to put aside political debates, put aside protests, put aside all of the things that we will talk about in due time,” Mr. de Blasio said in a speech. “That can be for another day.”
“是所有人放下政治争论、放下抗议、放下这一切的时候了，”白思豪在演讲中表示。“我们会在适当的时候讨论这些。它们可以等到改天进行。”
The mayor's call came a few hours after the police commissioner, William J. Bratton, said the killing of the officers was a “direct spinoff of this issue” of the protests that have roiled the nation in recent weeks.
在市长发出上述呼吁的几小时前，警察局长威廉·J·布拉顿(William J. Bratton)称，两名警察的遇害由抗议“问题直接衍生而来”。最近几周，抗议活动让美国陷入了动荡之中。
The protests were born of frustration that blacks are not treated fairly in the criminal justice system but that have often focused broadly on police officers.
抗议活动的起因，是对黑人在刑事司法体系中未被公平对待的不满。不过，这种不满大体上针对的往往是警察。
For weeks since a grand jury declined to indict a police officer in the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and a grand jury declined to indict a police officer in the death of Eric Garner on Staten Island, protesters have taken to the streets to call for reforms.
在密苏里州弗格森的迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)及斯塔顿岛的埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)被杀事件中，大陪审团均拒绝正式控告涉事警员。那之后，抗议者数周来一直在街头表达进行改革的诉求。
While mostly peaceful, those protests have also featured vitriolic and personal attacks that condemn those who wear a badge as racists and worse.
尽管抗议活动主要为和平性质，但其中也出现过尖锐的人身攻击，谴责戴警徽的人是种族主义者，乃至更遭。
When Ismaaiyl Brinsley boarded a bus to New York on Saturday morning, he had made his intentions clear for the world to see on social media — he wanted to kill police officers.
当伊斯马伊尔·布林斯利(Ismaaiyl Brinsley)周六上午登上前往纽约的公交车时，他已经在社交媒体上向全世界表明了自己的意图：他想要杀警察。
Bratton said that while investigators were still trying to learn more about Brinsley's background, they have concluded that the protests served as an inspiration for the disturbed young man.
布拉顿表示，尽管调查人员依然在努力进一步了解布林斯利的背景，但他们已能断定，抗议活动给了这个麻烦缠身的年轻人一定的启发。
“It is quite apparent, quite obvious, that the targeting of these two police officers was a direct spinoff of this issue of these demonstrations,” Bratton said during an interview on NBC's “Today” show.
“很明显，把那两名警员当做靶子是由抗议问题直接衍生而来的，”布拉顿在接受NBC《今日》(Today)节目的采访时说。
Brinsley shot and killed Officers Wenjian Liu, 32, and Rafael Ramos, 40, on Saturday afternoon in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, as the two sat in their patrol car.
周六下午，布林斯利在布鲁克林的贝德福德-斯图文森地区杀害了32岁的刘文健（音）和40岁的拉斐尔·拉莫斯(Rafael Ramos)。当时，这两名警员正坐在巡逻车里。
De Blasio on Monday visited the families of both slain officers, before speaking at a luncheon hosted by the Police Athletic League, a youth organization. It was there that he called for the demonstrations to be suspended.
周一，在拜访了两名遇害警察的家人后，白思豪在青年组织警察运动联盟(Police Athletic League)举办的午宴上发表了讲话。正是在这次午宴上，白思豪呼吁暂停示威活动。
De Blasio called the shooting of the officers an assault “on our values” and an “attack on every single New Yorker.”
白思豪称两名警员被枪击一事，是对“我们价值观”的侵犯，也是对“每一个纽约人的攻击”。
A news conference at Police Headquarters with Bratton was scheduled for Monday.
根据安排，布拉顿于周一在警察总部举行新闻发布会。
Brinsley had a long criminal record, having been arrested at least 19 times, and he shot his former girlfriend earlier Saturday. Bratton said the police were still trying to determine his last residence, where they hope to find more evidence that will help them better understand his motivations.
布林斯利有诸多犯罪记录，至少被捕19次。周六早些时候，他还枪击了前女友。布拉顿称，警方依然在努力确定他最后的住所，希望在那里找到更多证据，帮助他们更好地理解他的动机。
But even as the investigation continues, de Blasio has been criticized by some in the Police Department for encouraging the protesters by not speaking out more vehemently against some of their more heated rhetoric. They have seized on comments he made about how he warned his son of the dangers he might face as a young black man when dealing with the police. When protesters attacked police officers during a protest march in Brooklyn, critics pounced on his use of the word “allegedly” to describe the assault, much of which was captured in videos.
不过，在调查继续进行的同时，警察部门的一些人对白思豪提出了指责，称他鼓励了抗议者，因为他没有更强硬地公开反对抗议者的一些较为激烈的言论。他们把矛头指向了白思豪的这一评论：他曾警告儿子，作为黑人青年在与警察打交道时可能会遇到危险。批评人士还跳出来谴责，白思豪在描述抗议者在布鲁克林的游行中袭击警察一事时，使用了“据说”一词，而这些袭击行为中，有很多已被视频记录下来。
More broadly, de Blasio has been working since he took office to heal the wounds from an often bitter campaign during which he focused much of his attention on the need to reform the Police Department. While the mayor's aides have said that he was campaigning against a tactic, that was not the only message many in the department heard.
除此之外，自上任以来，白思豪一直在努力平复市长竞选时留下的伤口。在这场时常剑拔弩张的竞选中，他把很大一部分精力都放在了宣传改革警察部门的必要性上。尽管白思豪的助手表示，这只是一种竞选策略，但警察部门的许多人却听到了不同的说法。
On Sunday, Raymond W. Kelly, who was the police commissioner during the Bloomberg administration, once again said that in his view — and in the view of many officers — de Blasio ran on an “anti-police” platform.
周日，布隆伯格担任市长期间的警察局长雷蒙德·W·凯利(Raymond W. Kelly)再次表示，在他本人以及许多警员看来，白思豪竞选时基于的是“反警察”纲领。
That long-simmering ill will came to a full boil in the hours after the shooting on Saturday. In a display of discontent, dozens of officers turned their back on the mayor as he walked through the hallway of the hospital where the officers had been rushed after the shooting.
在周六的枪击事件之后的几个小时里，这种长期发酵的不良情绪彻底爆发。为了表达不满，当市长走过医治受害警察的医院的走廊时，数十名警察转过了身，背对着他。
Three unions representing uniformed police officers, sergeants and detectives are refraining from speaking publicly until after the funerals of two slain officers are completed, two union officials said.
两名工会官员披露，在两名遇难警察的葬礼结束之前，分别代表现役警员、警长和探员的三家工会将避免公开发表评论。
The decision came after calls from Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to the heads of each union, according to one of the union officials.
其中一名工会官员称，纽约州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)给各工会负责人打了电话，于是有了上述决定。
Even before the timing of the funerals had yet to be set, Cuomo called in an effort to calm frayed nerves after Patrick J. Lynch of the patrolmen's union and Edward D. Mullins of the sergeants' union laid the blame for the officers' deaths at the feet of de Blasio.
甚至在葬礼的时间尚未敲定之时，在巡警工会的派特里克·J·林奇(Patrick J. Lynch)和警长工会的爱德华·D·马林斯(Edward D. Mullins)把两位警员的死亡归咎于白思豪之后，库默就打来了电话，试图安抚他们紧绷的神经。
On Sunday, de Blasio attended a Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral but otherwise remained out of public view.
周日，白思豪参加了在圣帕特里克大教堂举行的弥撒，但除此之外，他避免了在公众场合露面。
In his interview Monday, Bratton defended the mayor, saying it was unfair to blame him for any increased level of threat being faced by the police.
周一接受采访时，布拉顿为市长进行了辩护。他说，因为警方受到的威胁有所升级而责怪市长，是不公平的。
But he acknowledged that there are those in the department who are deeply upset with de Blasio.
然而，他也承认，警察部门有一些人对白思豪极其不满。
When asked if the mayor had lost the trust of the police, Bratton said, “I think he has lost it with some officers.”
在被问到市长是否失去了警方的信任时，布拉顿说，“我觉得他失去了某些警员的信任。”