Unlike ordinary sofas, sectionals have a special ability. “They make a space within a space, always,” Adam Rolston said. “They’re the most architectural of interior furnishings.”
与普通沙发不同，组合沙发有一种特殊的功能。“组合沙发总是能在一个空间里再造出一个空间，”亚当·罗斯通(Adam Rolston)说，“它们在室内家居当中是最具结构性的一类。”
Mr. Rolston, 51, runs an architecture and design firm called Incorporated with Drew Stuart and Gabriel Benroth, and the three often use sectionals as a way of creating a smaller seating area within a larger space.
今年51岁的罗斯通，同德鲁·斯图亚特(Drew Stuart)和加布里埃尔·宾诺斯(Gabriel Benroth)一起，开了一家名为“组合”(Incorporated)的建筑与设计公司。他们三人常常利用组合沙发，在一个较大的空间里缔造出一个较小的座位区。
As Mr. Stuart, 37, said, “They can save a tricky furnishing situation.” But if you’re not careful, he warned: “They can also go terribly wrong. That’s why people sometimes have this idea of them being tacky.”
37岁的斯图亚特说，“这些沙发可以拯救一个非常棘手的陈设布局。”但如果你不小心，他警告说，“也可能犯下严重的错误。那就是有人会觉得沙发很俗气的原因。”
When shopping for a sectional sofa, Mr. Benroth, 37, said, it’s important to remember that “how modular and flexible they are matters.” The best ones allow for a multitude of configurations that will work in various spaces.
在选购组合沙发的时候，37岁的宾诺斯说，关键是要记住“沙发的模块化与灵活性怎么样，是十分重要的”。最好的组合沙发可以有多种组合方式，适用于各种各样的空间。
The Omnibus Interior Landscapes by Vladimir Kagan, at the Ralph Pucci International showroom in Chelsea, offered a case in point. Although only one L-shaped module was on the showroom floor, the full system includes 23 elements that can be assembled into a labyrinthine sofa with seating at different heights.
弗拉迪米尔·卡甘(Vladimir Kagan)在切尔西的尔夫·普茨国际展览厅(Ralph Pucci International showroom)举办的室内设计集锦(Omnibus Interior Landscapes)，则提供了一个很有意义的示例。虽然展厅里只有一套L型的组合沙发，但这套完整的系统包括了23个组件，可以拼装成一组结构复杂的沙发，其座位高度也各不相同。
“It’s spectacular because you have so many pieces,” Mr. Stuart said.
“这样的沙发好极了，因为你可以有那么多的组件，”斯图亚特说。
Or as Mr. Rolston put it, “It’s like he was trying to design something that could solve all possible problems.” And the clear Plexiglas legs, Mr. Rolston pointed out, create the illusion that the sofa is floating.
或者如罗斯通所说，“这就像他要设计一种能解决所有潜在问题的家具。”而且，罗斯通指出，这组沙发清澈的树脂玻璃腿可以给人一种悬浮的感觉。
At ABC Carpet & Home, they found a sectional with curves: the Cloverleaf sofa by Verner Panton, which has a snaking backrest down the center with seating on both sides.
在ABC Carpet & Home店内，他们找到一套曲线形的组合沙发，名为“三叶草”(Cloverleaf)，由维奈·潘顿(Verner Panton)设计。它有一个蜿蜒的蛇形靠背立于中央，两边则是座位。
“Some sectionals fade into the background, but this is sculpture,” Mr. Rolston said. Still, it may be better suited to an office than a living room, he noted, because of the upright sitting position.
“有些组合沙发会渐渐变成背景，而这套沙发却是一座雕塑，”罗斯通说。尽管如此，这套沙发可能更适合一间办公室而不是家中的客厅，他提醒道，因为它会令使用者保持笔直的坐姿。
They also liked the store’s simpler Arper Loop sectional. After trying it out, Mr. Stuart announced: “This is my preferred proportion for a sofa. It’s not too deep.”
他们还喜欢这家店里较为简单的Arper Loop组合沙发。斯图亚特在试坐之后宣布：“这就是我喜欢的沙发比例。它不是那么深。”
And the modest size, Mr. Benroth said, meant “it would be great for a smaller apartment.”
而且大小适中，宾诺斯说，意指“这组沙发非常适合较小的公寓”。
A few blocks away, at Ligne Roset, they collapsed onto the Togo sectional, which has tufted modules that sit on the floor, Mr. Rolston said, “like giant pillows or structured beanbags — perfect for a man cave.”
几条街区之外，在Ligne Roset店里，三人都倒在了一组Togo沙发上。这是几个摆在地上的填充式沙发组件，罗斯通说，“就像巨大的枕头或有骨架的沙袋式沙发——男人的完美巢穴。”
The aptly named Deep Tuft, designed by Harvey Probber in 1972 and recently reissued by M2L, was another favorite, although in a different way, as it had an elegant look that was “really feminine and uptown,” Mr. Rolston said.
这组叫做“深度填充”(Deep Tuft)的沙发名字取得很好，是1972年由哈维·普罗布(Harvey Probber)设计的，最近由M2L公司重新发售。尽管这组沙发的风格截然不同，看起来外观优雅，但它是另一款他们最喜欢的设计，“十分女性化，而且上档次，”罗斯通说。
Mr. Stuart, however, had reservations. “When I see that tufting, all I can think about is my 4-year-old with a cookie,” he said. “And me with a vacuum.”
然而，斯图亚特对此有所保留。“当我看见那样的填充沙发，唯一想到的就是我那4岁大的孩子和一块饼干，”他说，“而我则拎着一个吸尘器。”