Alibaba’s filing on Tuesday to sell stock to the public for the first time disclosed a handful of winners who are poised to reap big paydays for taking a chance on the company, the once-scrappy Chinese start-up founded by Jack Ma that has become an e-commerce giant.
在阿里巴巴本周二提交的首次空开募股申请文件中，一些人生赢家的名字浮现出来。他们当初愿意在这家中国初创公司碰碰运气，如今则将斩获丰硕回报。阿里巴巴由马云创办，当年并不起眼，现在则已成长为电子商务巨头。
When Alibaba’s shares begin trading, Mr. Ma, a former English teacher, will be vaulted to a status akin to Silicon Valley titans. Mr. Ma holds an 8.9 percent stake, while his Taiwanese deputy, Joseph Tsai, owns 3.6 percent, according to Tuesday’s filing.
阿里巴巴的股票上市交易时，曾经当过英语老师的马云的地位将会跃升到堪与硅谷巨头比肩的高度。本周二提交的招股书显示，马云持有该公司8.9%的股份，而他来自台湾的副手蔡崇信(Joseph Tsai)持有3.6%。
Among some of the other lucky few who could become overnight millionaires is a small group of Alibaba’s top executives. While the filing is not a comprehensive list of shareholders and does not disclose these executives’ stakes or value of their holdings, five of them appeared on the shareholder list as owning less than 1 percent in the company. They include Jonathan Zhaoxi Lu, the chief executive since 2013, when Mr. Ma stepped down; Daniel Yong Zhang, the chief operating officer; Maggie Wei Wu, the chief financial officer; Jian Wang, the chief technology officer; and Timothy A. Steinert, general counsel at the Alibaba Group.
还有其他少数幸运者可能会在一夜之间变成富翁，其中包括阿里巴巴的少数高管。虽然这份招股书并未包括股东的完整列表，也没有透露这些高管持有多少股份，或是他们所持股份的价值，但出现在股东名单中的五人拥有阿里巴巴不到1%的股份。他们分别是首席执行官陆兆禧，首席营运官张勇，首席财务官武卫，首席技术官王坚，以及总法律顾问石义德(Timothy A. Steinert)。自2013年马云不再担任首席执行官后，陆兆禧接任至今。
Alibaba’s biggest and earliest backer, SoftBank, the Japanese telecommunications company, emerged on Tuesday as the single largest shareholder, with a 34.4 percent stake. SoftBank and Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment bank, put money behind Alibaba in the early years when few banks and investors were willing to take a chance on the company, people close to the two companies said. Goldman did not appear on the top shareholders list. Yahoo has a 22.6 percent stake and is selling a 9 percent piece in the offering.
阿里巴巴最大、也是最早的投资者是日本电信公司软银(SoftBank)。本周二的招股书显示，它作为该公司最大的单一股东，拥有34.4%的股份。知情人士称，软银和华尔街投行高盛(Goldman Sachs)在阿里巴巴发展的早期就投资了这家公司，而当时很少有银行和投资者愿意冒险这样做。高盛并不在股东名单的前列。雅虎则拥有阿里巴巴22.6%的股份，将在IPO时出售9%。
Nearly a decade later, as Alibaba grew in popularity in China and other investors began to see it as way to bet on the Internet in China, the company’s value rocketed. In 2009, the United States private equity firm General Atlantic invested an undisclosed amount, valuing the company at about $10 billion at the time. The company’s estimated worth rose to around $32 billion by the end of 2011 and to over $40 billion by the end of 2012 as Alibaba initiated a series of fund-raising rounds to help it expand. When its stock starts trading, Alibaba is expected to have a share price that could value the company at $200 billion.
将近十年后，阿里巴巴在中国变得越来越受欢迎，其他投资者开始把它看成是押注中国互联网的方式，而该公司的价值也出现飙升。2009年，美国私募企业泛大西洋资本集团(General Atlantic)投资该公司时，对它的估值大约是100亿美元（约合620亿元人民币），其投资金额未作披露。2011年年底，该公司的估值升至约320亿美元；2012年年底突破400亿美元，当时阿里巴巴进行了几轮融资，以帮助公司发展壮大。该公司的股票上市交易时，其估值可能达到2000亿美元。
In recent years, many of Alibaba’s backers have come to view the company as a Chinese version of some of Silicon Valley’s most successful companies. “It’s the ecosystem around consumption that we like,” said one investor who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
近年来，阿里巴巴的很多投资者都开始把这家公司看成是一些最为成功的硅谷公司的中国版本。“我们喜欢的是围绕着消费活动建立起来的生态系统，”一位不愿具名的投资者说。
“It’s like Amazon, eBay and Google all put together,” the investor added.
“就像是亚马逊(Amazon)、eBay加谷歌(Google)的混合体，”这名投资者还说。
Investors that have led these rounds or bought large stakes in recent years have included the China Investment Corporation, China’s sovereign wealth fund; the private equity firm Silver Lake; the Russian investment firm DST Global; and Temasek and G.I.C., Singapore’s sovereign wealth funds. The Citic Group, one of China’s biggest conglomerates and the Chinese private equity firm Boyu Capital, also made early investments. None of these investors were included in the filing on Tuesday.
牵头进行这几轮融资或者近年来买入大量股份的投资者包括：中国的主权财富基金中投公司、私募企业银湖(Silver Lake)、俄罗斯投资公司DST全球(DST Global)，以及新加坡主权财富基金淡马锡(Temasek)和新加坡政府投资公司(GIC)。中国最大的集团公司之一中信集团和中国私募企业博裕投资也进行了早期投资。这些投资者均未列入周二提交的申请文件中。
A small group of hedge funds is also likely to secure big gains from the I.P.O. Some of the Tiger cubs, hedge funds spun out of Julian Robertson’s Tiger Management, have bought shares in recent years, directly and through secondary market transactions.
一小群对冲基金也很可能会从这桩IPO中大捞一笔。从朱利安·罗伯逊(Julian Robertson)旗下的老虎基金(Tiger Management)衍生出来的“虎仔”对冲基金中，有一些在近年里直接或是通过二级市场交易间接买入了阿里巴巴的股份。
These include Shumway Capital, founded by one of Mr. Robertson’s former top deputies, Chris Shumway; Tiger Global, an investment firm founded by another protégé, Chase Coleman; Glade Brook Capital Partners, a hedge fund started by a former Shumway employee, Paul Hudson; and Viking Global, founded by O. Andreas Halvorsen.
这中间包括：由罗伯逊的前高级副手克里斯·沙姆韦(Chris Shumway)创办的沙姆韦资本(Shumway Capital)、由同样师出罗伯逊的蔡斯·科尔曼(Chase Coleman)创办的投资公司老虎环球(Tiger Global)、由曾供职于沙姆韦手下的保罗·赫德森(Paul Hudson)创建的对冲基金林溪资本合伙人公司(Glade Brook Capital Partners)，以及O·安德烈亚斯·哈尔沃森(O. Andreas Halvorsen)创立的维京环球(Viking Global)。