A treatment that genetically alters a patient’s own immune cells to fight cancer has, for the first time, produced remissions in adults with an acute leukemia that is usually lethal, researchers are reporting. In one patient who was severely ill, all traces of leukemia vanished in eight days.
研究人员发布报告称，一种抗癌疗法首次缓解了急性白血病（通常是致命的）患者的病情，该疗法从基因上改变患者自身的免疫细胞，从而达到了抗击癌症的效果。一名重症患者在接受治疗后，其白血病症状在八天内完全消失。
“We had hoped, but couldn’t have predicted that the response would be so profound and rapid,” said Dr. Renier J. Brentjens, the first author of a new study of the therapy and a specialist in leukemia at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
“我们曾希望过，但从未料到患者对该疗法的反应会如此强烈和快速，”该疗法最新研究报告的第一作者、纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心(Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center)的白血病专家雷尼尔·J·布伦蒂安斯(Renier J. Brentjens)说。
The treatment is experimental, has been used in only a small number of patients and did not work in all of them. But experts consider it a highly promising approach for a variety of malignancies, including other blood cancers and tumors in organs like the prostate gland. The new study, in five adults with acute leukemia, was published on Wednesday in the journal Science Translational Medicine. The treatment is similar to one that pulled a 7-year-old girl, Emma Whitehead, from death's door into remission nearly a year ago, and that has had astounding success in several adults with chronic leukemia in whom chemotherapy had failed. The treatment regimen that saved Emma and those adults was developed at the University of Pennsylvania. Related studies have also been done at the National Cancer Institute.
该疗法是实验性的，只被用于少数患者，而且不是对所有人都有效。但专家认为，该疗法对一些不同类型的恶性肿瘤来说是非常有前景的，包括其他类型的血癌以及器官肿瘤，如前列腺癌等。新研究的治疗对象是五名急性白血病成人患者，研究报告于周三发表在《科学转化医学》(Science Translational Medicine)上。该疗法和另一种疗法有相似之处，后者在近一年前缓解了7岁女孩埃玛·怀特黑德(Emma Whitehead)的病情，把她从死亡线上拉了回来，而且该疗法在数名患有慢性白血病而化疗又不起作用的成人患者身上也获得了巨大成功，它的研发机构是宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)。美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)也参与了相关研究。
But this cell-therapy approach had not been tried before in adults with the disease that Emma had, acute lymphoblastic leukemia. This type of blood cancer is worse in adults than in children, with a cure rate in adults of only about 40 percent, compared with 80 percent to 90 percent in children. The disease is not common. Each year in the United States, it affects about 2,400 people older than 20, and 3,600 younger. Though there are fewer cases in adults, there are more deaths: about 1,170 adults die each year compared with 270 deaths in people under 20.
但这种细胞疗法之前从未被用于急性淋巴细胞性白血病（即埃玛所患的白血病）的成人患者。此种白血病对成人患者的危险性高于儿童，成人患者的治愈率只有40%，而儿童的治愈率为80%到90%。这种疾病并不常见。在美国，每年大约有2400名20岁以上的人患病和3600名20岁以下的人患病。尽管成人病例相对更少，但成人患者的死亡率更高：每年大约有1170名成人患者死于该疾病，而20岁以下的患者中只有270名死于该疾病。
In adults, this type of leukemia is a “devastating, galloping disease,” said Dr. Michel Sadelain, the senior author of the new study and director of the Center for Cell Engineering and the Gene Transfer and Gene Expression Laboratory at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
对成人患者来说，此类白血病是一种“破坏力强、发展迅速的疾病”，该研究的高级作者米歇尔·萨德莱恩博士(Michel Sadelain)说。他是曼哈顿纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心细胞工程中心(Center for Cell Engineering)以及基因转移和基因表达实验室(Gene Transfer and Gene Expression Laboratory)的负责人。
Patients like the ones in the study, who relapse after chemotherapy, usually have only a few months left, Dr. Sadelain said. But now, three of the five have been in remission for 5 to 24 months. Two others died: one was in remission but died from a blood clot, and the other relapsed. The survivors have gone on to have bone-marrow transplants. Their prognosis is good, but relapse is still possible, and only time will tell.
萨德莱恩博士说，研究中的患者通常只有几个月的生命，他们的病情在化疗后会复发。但如今，五名患者中有三名的缓解期已长达5到24个月。另外两名已经去世：其中一名患者处于缓解状态，但死于血栓，另外一名则病情复发。生还者随即接受了骨髓移植。他们有望康复，但是也有可能复发，只有时间能给出答案。
Experts not connected with the study said it was an important advance in an emerging field. Dr. Carl June of the University of Pennsylvania, who led the team that treated Emma and the other patients, said, “This is the first report showing some real, clinically beneficial activity in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia.” He said his team was also starting to test its version of the cell therapy on patients with the disease.
没有参与该研究的专家称，该研究是这一新生领域的重要进展。宾夕法尼亚大学的卡尔·琼博士(Carl June)曾带领治疗埃玛和其他患者的小组，他说，“这份报告首次显示了针对成人急性淋巴细胞性白血病进行的一些真正有临床效益的研究活动。”他表示，他的团队也开始针对这类病人测试自身研发的细胞疗法。
Dr. Richard M. Stone, the program director for adult leukemia at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, called the research exciting and said he hoped to begin collaborating with the team at Sloan-Kettering. He has already sent them a patient. The treatment uses patients’ own T-cells, a type of white blood cell that normally fights viruses and cancer. The patient’s blood is run through a machine that extracts T-cells and returns the rest of the blood to the body. Researchers then do some genetic engineering: they use a disabled virus as a “vector” to carry new genetic material into the T cells, which reprograms them to recognize and kill any cell that carries a particular protein on its surface.
波士顿丹娜-法伯癌症研究所(Dana-Farber Cancer Institute)成人白血病项目负责人理查德·M·斯通博士(Richard M. Stone)称该研究令人振奋，他还希望和斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心的研究小组展开合作。他已经向他们送去了一名患者。该疗法采用患者自身的T细胞，这是一种白细胞，通常会攻击病毒和癌细胞。他们把患者的血液输入机器，提取血液中的T细胞，再把剩下的血液输回患者体内。接着，研究人员会进行基因工程操作：他们使用一种灭活病毒作为“载体”，把新的遗传物质载入T细胞内，新的遗传物质会重新编码T细胞，让T细胞可以识别并攻击任何一个在其表面携带某种特定蛋白质的细胞。
The protein, called CD19, is found on B-cells, which are part of the immune system. This target was chosen because the patients had a type of leukemia that affects B-cells, so the goal was to train the patients’ T-cells to destroy B-cells. Healthy B-cells — which make antibodies to fight infection — would be killed along with cancerous ones, but that side effect was treatable.
这种叫做CD19的蛋白质是在B细胞表面发现的，B细胞是免疫系统的一部分。之所以选择它，是因为患者患有一种会使B细胞受感染的白血病，所以其目标就是训练病人的T细胞来消灭B细胞。不过，能制造抗体对抗感染的健康B细胞，就会与发生癌变的B细胞一同被杀死；但是这种副作用是有办法治疗的。
“We’re creating living drugs,” Dr. Sadelain said. “It’s an exciting story that’s just beginning.”
“我们在制造有生命的药物，”萨德莱恩说，“它让人感到兴奋，而且这只是开始。”
One of the sickest patients in the study was David Aponte, 58, who works on a sound crew for ABC News. In November 2011, what he thought was a bad case of tennis elbow turned out to be leukemia. He braced himself for a long, grueling regimen of chemotherapy.
58岁的戴维·阿蓬特(David Aponte)是参与研究的病人中病情比较严重的，他在ABC新闻频道(ABC News)的音响团队工作。2011年11月，他原本以为自己只是肘部发炎，结果竟然是白血病。他本已准备接受长时间的化疗，尽管他知道这会非常难熬。
His oncologist, Dr. Brentjens, suggested that before starting the drugs, Mr. Aponte might want to have some of his T-cells removed and stored (chemotherapy would deplete them). That way, if he relapsed, he might be able to enter a study using the cells. Mr. Aponte agreed.
他的肿瘤医生布伦蒂安斯却建议，在开始用药前，移除一些阿蓬特的T细胞，并将它们储存起来（化疗会杀死大量这类细胞）。这样，如果旧病复发，他或许就能参与使用这些细胞的一项研究。阿蓬特同意了。
At first, the chemo worked, but by the summer of 2012, while he was still being treated, tests showed that the disease was back.
刚开始，化疗是有作用的。但是到2012年夏，虽然他仍在接受治疗，但测试结果显示他的病情出现了倒退。
“After everything I had gone through, the chemo, losing hair, the sickness, it was absolutely devastating,” Mr. Aponte recalled.
阿蓬特回忆道，“在我忍受了这一切以后，化疗、脱发、病痛，情况真的非常令人沮丧。”
He joined the T-cell study. For a few days, nothing seemed to be happening. Then, his temperature began to rise. He has no memory of what took place during the next week or so, but the journal article — where he is Patient 5 — reports that his fever spiked to 105 degrees. He was in the throes of a “cytokine storm,” meaning that the T-cells, in a furious battle with the cancer, were churning out enormous amounts of hormones called cytokines. Besides fever, the hormonal rush can make a patient’s blood pressure plummet and his heart rate shoot up. Mr. Aponte was taken to intensive care and treated with steroids to quell the reaction.
他参加了T细胞研究。开始几天，似乎什么事情都没有发生。然后，他的体温开始上升。他不记得接下来一周左右发生了什么，但是杂志中的文章讲述称，作为研究的“5号病人”，他的体温上升到了105华氏度（约40.6摄氏度）。当时他正处于“细胞因子风暴”的痛苦之中，也就是说，T细胞正在与癌细胞进行激烈对抗。T细胞正在大量释放被称作细胞因子的荷尔蒙。除发烧以外，荷尔蒙的突增还会使患者血压骤跌、心率突升。阿蓬特被送到了重症监护室，并接受了类固醇治疗以减轻反应。
Eight days later, his leukemia was gone. Even the doctors were shocked, Dr. Brentjens said. They repeated the lab tests just to make sure there was no mistake.
八天之后，他的白血病症状消失了。布伦蒂安斯说，甚至连医生都感到震惊。为了确定没出差错，他们再次进行了实验室测试。
Once he was in remission, Mr. Aponte had a bone-marrow transplant, as did three of the other patients in the study. Another had medical problems that made a transplant impossible, and it was he who relapsed and died. The researchers think he may have relapsed because the steroids he needed to treat the cytokine storm may have wiped out the T-cells before they could do their job.
阿蓬特一进入缓解期，就接受了骨髓移植，参与研究的其他三名病人也一样。另一人因为健康问题而无法接受移植手术，此人最后病发身亡。研究人员认为，他之所以旧病复发可能是因为，用来应对细胞因子风暴的类固醇在T细胞完全发挥作用之前就把它们消灭了。
For the other patients, it is not known whether the transplants were really needed; in theory, the T-cells alone might have produced a long-term remission or even a cure. Patients treated at the University of Pennsylvania were not given transplants, and most have stayed in remission. But the technique used there involves a different viral vector and different genetic programming from the one used at Sloan-Kettering.
对于其他病人来说，究竟是否真的需要进行移植手术目前还无法确定；从理论上看，仅T细胞就可能会使病人进入缓解期，甚至治愈疾病。在宾夕法尼亚大学治疗的病人都没有接受移植手术，他们大多一直处于缓解期。但是，那里的治疗方法所使用的病毒载体和基因编码与纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心使用的不同。