A cottage industry has sprung up facilitating the sale and donation of human breast milk on the Internet, but a study published Monday in the journal Pediatrics confirms the concerns of health professionals over this unregulated marketplace.
互联网上兴起了一个为母乳捐献和售卖提供平台的家庭作坊式的产业，但《儿科》杂志(Pediatrics)周一发表的一项研究结果，印证了医疗专家们对这个不受监管的市场存在的担忧。
The report found that breast milk bought from two popular Web sites was often contaminated with high levels of bacteria, including, in a few instances, salmonella. The amounts detected in some samples were sufficient to sicken a child.
该报告发现，从两个人气很高的网站购买的母乳经常会受到高水平的细菌污染，有几次母乳中还发现含有沙门氏菌。而在一些母乳样本中发现的细菌含量足以导致幼童患病。
“The study makes you worry,” said Dr. Richard A. Polin, the director of neonatology and perinatology at Columbia University, who was not involved in the research. “This is a potential cause of disease. Even with a relative, it’s probably not a good idea to share.”
“这项研究让人担忧，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)新生儿学和围产医学学科主任理查德·A·波林(Richard A. Polin)说。“这可能会引发疾病。即便是和自己的亲属，分享母乳可能也不是个好主意。”
After a spate of research showing that breast milk protects infants from infections and other ailments, health care providers in recent years have strongly encouraged new mothers to abandon formula and to breast-feed. But this can be a difficult challenge. Parents who have adopted, for instance, or have had mastectomies — or who simply do not produce enough milk — often rely on donated or purchased breast milk.
已经有一系列研究表明母乳可以避免婴儿患传染病和其他疾病，近年来，医疗机构开始大力鼓励初产妇放弃配方奶粉，选择母乳喂养。但母乳喂养或许会成为一个挑战，比如，那些收养孩子的父母，或者接受过乳房切除手术的母亲，或者泌乳不足的母亲，就经常要依靠捐赠的或者购来的母乳。
“Milk-sharing” Web sites host classified advertisements from women wishing to buy, sell or donate breast milk. “My daughter is two months old and has gained five pounds and grown three inches since birth!” reads one ad. “I have a serious oversupply and I am looking to free up room in my freezer.”
在“母乳分享”网站上，刊登着想要购买、出售或者捐赠乳汁的女性发布的分类广告。“我的女儿两个月大了，自从出生后她的体重已增加了5磅，还长高了3英寸！”其中一则广告这样写道。“我的乳汁严重过剩，而我正想办法从冰箱的冷冻层腾出点空间出来。”
Some sites discourage paying for breast milk, while others actively endorse the practice. Advertisements from some sellers play up the convenience and price, which can be as low as $1.50 ounce. But many women wish to donate milk simply to help out fellow mothers in need.
一些网站不鼓励花钱购买母乳，而另外一些网站则支持这种做法。来自一些卖家的广告在便利性和价格上做足文章吸引买家，有时母乳的价格可以低到每盎司1.5美元。但很多女性希望捐赠母乳，纯粹是为了帮助其他需要帮助的母亲。
Rachel Holtzman, 31, a writer who lives in Brooklyn, had breast reduction surgery that unexpectedly left her unable to lactate. After giving birth to Levi, now 4 ½ months old, she turned to a network of women in Park Slope who were willing to donate their breast milk. It has been a largely positive experience.
住在布鲁克林的31岁作家蕾切尔·霍尔茨曼(Rachel Holtzman)进行了缩胸手术，之后却意外地无法再分泌乳汁。在生下列维(Levi)之后，她向公园坡(Park Slope)一个愿意捐赠乳汁的女性群体寻求帮助。列维现在已经四个半月大，而霍尔茨曼接受捐赠母乳的经历总体上都是积极的。
“We worried at first,” she said. “We wanted to be mindful that the donors were healthy, but there was never a moment when we were afraid. We’ve had the milk of about 30 women and have never had a problem.”
“开始我们也很担心，”霍尔茨曼说。“我们想要小心，确保捐赠者很健康，但我们从没有害怕过。我们用过来自大概30名女性的母乳，从没有出过问题。”
Women who do not wish to rely on an informal network may turn to breast milk banks, which store and sell breast milk from donors. Thirteen banks in the United States and Canada follow voluntary guidelines set up by the Human Milk Banking Association of North America, which require that donors and donations be screened, and that milk be pasteurized.
而那些不想依赖非正式网络的女性则可以选择母乳银行，那里贮藏并出售来自捐赠者的母乳。美国和加拿大的13家母乳银行都遵守北美母乳银行协会(Human Milk Banking Association of North America)制定的自愿性指导原则，要求对捐赠者以及其捐赠的母乳进行筛查，并且要对母乳进行巴氏灭菌。
But milk banks give priority to premature infants with significant medical complications, and the milk is available only by prescription. A bank will supply milk by prescription to healthy infants, but only if sufficient supplies are available — and they rarely are. The association’s banks distributed 2.15 million ounces in 2011, but the current annual need is 9 million ounces.
不过母乳银行会将母乳优先提供给有严重并发症的早产婴儿，而且凭处方才能获得母乳。母乳银行会凭处方向健康婴儿提供母乳，但前提是有充足供应——而充足供应的情况很少见。2011年，该协会的母乳银行分发了215万盎司（约合6.1万公斤）的母乳，但目前母乳的年需求量高达900万盎司。
Even when it is available, milk from banks is expensive, as much as $6 an ounce, and the average intake of a 1-month-old is about 25 ounces a day.
即使能够取得，来自母乳银行的母乳也很昂贵，每盎司高达6美元。而1个月大的新生儿平均每日需要食用25盎司。
All of this encourages new parents, often scrambling to find breast milk on short notice, to shop for cheaper or more convenient sources, and Web sites including onlythebreast.com and eatsonfeets.org have sprung up to fill the demand. In 2011, there were more than 13,000 postings on the four leading milk-sharing Web sites, according to Sarah Keim, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Ohio State.
一些新生儿的父母常常需要仓促地寻找母乳，以上因素都促使他们从更廉价、更方便的来源求购母乳，而针对这些需求的onlythebreast.com和eatsonfeets.org等网站也应运而生。俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State)儿科学助理教授莎拉·凯姆(Sarah Keim)表示，四家主要的母乳分享网站在2011年总计发布了超过1.3万则信息。
In using any of these services, the buyer relies on the representations of the seller. The new study suggests that may prove hazardous.
要用上述网站，买家就只能信赖卖家所做的表述。而这项新的研究显示，这样做存在安全风险。
Dr. Keim and her colleagues collected 101 samples from milk-sharing Web sites, recording the sellers’ assertions about their own health and their methods of handling and storage. Then the researchers analyzed the bacterial content in the samples, comparing them with unpasteurized breast milk from screened donors at banks.
凯姆和她的同事从母乳分享网站上收集了101份母乳样本，并记录下了卖家对自身健康状况和收集、贮藏方法的表述。之后研究人员分析了样本中的细菌含量，并与母乳银行经过筛查的捐献人提供的未经灭菌的母乳进行了比较。
The researchers found that 64 percent of the samples from milk-sharing sites were contaminated with staph, 36 percent with strep, and almost three-quarters with other bacterial species. Three of the samples contained salmonella. Seventy-four percent of the samples would have failed milk bank criteria.
研究人员发现，来自母乳分享网站的样本中，有64%受到了金黄色葡萄球菌污染、36%受到了链球菌污染，近四分之三感染有其他种类的细菌，三份样本受到了沙门氏菌污染。74%的样本无法达到母乳银行的标准。
The unpasteurized milk bank samples were not entirely free of contamination either, but they were considerably cleaner than those from the online milk-sharers — 25 percent were contaminated with staph, 20 percent with strep, and 35 percent with other types of bacteria. Twenty-five percent of the milk bank samples contained no detectable bacteria at all, compared with 9 percent of the samples from milk-sharing sites.
母乳银行未经灭菌的样本也并非完全没有污染，但它们比母乳分享网站的样本干净得多：25%受到金黄色葡萄球菌污染、20%受到链球菌污染、35%受到其他类型细菌的污染。母乳银行的样本中有25%完全没有检测到细菌，相比之下母乳分享网站的样本只有9%未检测到。
“Most staph and strep are harmless at normal levels,” Dr. Keim said. “But some of the levels we found were very high.” Nine percent of the milk-sharing samples contained dangerous levels of staph, and a handful had unusually high strep levels. Salmonella “doesn’t belong in milk at all,” she said.
“大多数金黄色葡萄球菌和链球菌在正常水平都是无害的，”凯姆说。“但是我们检测的一些样本细菌水平很高。”母乳分享网站的样本中，有9%的样本金黄色葡萄球菌水平高到了危险的程度，也有几个样本含有异常高的链球菌水平。而她说，“母乳中根本就不该有”沙门氏菌。
Dr. Keim gave high marks to the milk banks. “When you donate to one of the H.M.B.A.N.A. banks, you know it’s been processed and made safe for a baby who really needs it.”
凯姆对母乳银行给予了很高的评价：“向母乳银行协会下属的母乳银行捐献乳汁时，你知道它会经过处理，能让真正需要它的婴儿安全食用。”
All milk shipped from milk banks is pasteurized, which kills skin and gastrointestinal bacteria, as well as many viruses, including those that cause colds. But pasteurization also destroys some of the beneficial substances in breast milk.
母乳银行提供的乳汁都经过了灭菌，这种操作能杀灭其中的皮肤和消化道细菌，以及许多病毒，包括导致感冒的病毒。不过灭菌操作也会杀灭母乳中的一些有益成分。
Kim Updegrove, president of the milk bank association, believes that however well intended, informal sharing of breast milk can be hazardous.
母乳银行协会的会长金·厄普德格罗夫(Kim Updegrove)认为，非正式的母乳分享行为就算想法是好的，也还是会有危险。
“If you get milk from an unscreened sharer, you put your child at risk,” she said. “I hate to say this to an informal sharer, because they are trying to do good. But they are playing a game of Russian roulette.”
“从没有接受过筛查的分享者那里取得乳汁，就是在让孩子承担风险。”她说，“我不想对那些通过非正式渠道分享母乳的人说这番话，毕竟她们是打算做好事，可是她们这样做的确像是在玩‘俄罗斯轮盘赌’（Russian roulette，指左轮手枪中放入一颗子弹，旋转弹仓后扣动扳机的搏命游戏。——译注）。”