In one of television’s biggest syndication deals, “The Simpsons,” the longest-running scripted show in TV history, will finally be moving to cable television — and, not too surprisingly, it is staying in the family.
在业界最大的一桩播放权交易中，《辛普森一家》(The Simpsons)这部电视史上历史最悠久的剧集最终来到有线电视台，毫不出人意料的是，它仍然留在“家族”里。
That’s the 21st Century Fox family, which owns the studio that created “The Simpsons,” (20th Century Fox Television), the network that broadcasts it (Fox), and now the cable network (FXX) that has acquired both cable and streaming rights to the more than 550 episodes.
这里的“家族”是指21世纪福克斯公司，它拥有制作《辛普森一家》的制片公司20世纪福克斯电视(20th Century Fox Television)，以及播出它的福克斯公共电视台(Fox)。刚刚获得《辛普森一家》550多集的有线电视及流媒体播放权的FXX公司也归21世纪福克斯所有。
Terms of the agreement were not disclosed, but a representative of one of the other companies that pursued the package said that the bidding was highly competitive and estimated that the per-episode figure reached $1.5 million to $1.6 million. That would put the value of the deal at close to $900 million.
合同条款并未披露，但其他角逐播放权的公司的一位代表说，竞争十分激烈，他估计每集的成交金额达到150万到160万美元，交易总额将近9亿美元。
The 24 seasons of shows that have been completed will begin airing in August 2014. The 25th season, currently in production, will be available the month after.
该片第24季已经制作完成，将于2014年8月开始播放。第25季还在制作中，将在2014年9月完成。
The rights include not only the exclusive exposure on FXX, which is the new comedy offshoot of the FX Network, but also video-on-demand and streaming rights. By locking up these platforms, FXX can control the way it uses them, while keeping the shows away from competitors. That means, for the foreseeable future, the episodes are likely to contain some form of advertising, and not find their way onto increasingly popular ad-free subscription services like Netflix or Amazon.
FXX是FX电视网最新开设的喜剧分公司，这次它得到的权利不仅包括独家播放权，还有视频点播和流媒体播放权利。锁定这些平台后，FXX可以控制使用方式，避免同其他同类节目竞争。也就是说，在可预见的未来，《辛普森一家》中将很有可能插入若干形式的广告，不能像Netflix或亚马逊的节目那样，提供日益流行的免广告订阅服务。
The shows will be streamed online by FXNOW, a mobile viewing app that FX Networks plans to introduce soon.
这个节目还将在FXNOW做在线流媒体播放，这是FX电视网计划不日推出的一款视频移动应用。
Other companies that most likely would have been interested in the Simpsons package include Turner Broadcasting, on behalf of two of its cable networks: TBS, which mainly offers repeats of hit network comedies, and Adult Swim, which has carved out an identity substantially on reruns of other Fox animated comedies like “Family Guy” and “American Dad.” Both Viacom and NBC Universal were also widely mentioned as potential bidders.
其他有可能对《辛普森一家》的各种权利感兴趣的公司还包括特纳广播公司(Turner Broadcasting)，它代表两家有线电视网：TBS台和“成人游泳”(Adult Swim)台。TBS主要重播电视网热门喜剧；而“成人游泳”主要通过重播福克斯公司的《恶搞之家》(Family Guy)和《美国老爸》(American Dad)等喜剧动画来打造自己的形象。维亚康姆(Viacom)和NBC环球(NBC Universal)也被普遍认为是潜在的出价者。
When Gary Newman, the chief executive of 20th Century Fox Television, announced the prospective cable sale in September, he called the show “the greatest television asset of all time,” emphasizing that with 530 episodes completed (and at least one more season of 24 original shows already scheduled) “The Simpsons” could run as a nightly entry on a cable network for more than a year and never have to repeat an episode.
20世纪福克斯电视总裁加里·纽曼(Gary Newman)在9月宣布出售该节目的有线电视播放权时说，该节目“始终是最伟大的电视资产”，他强调，《辛普森一家》已经拍了530多集，除了已经完成的24季，至少还有一季已经在制作日程表上。在有线电视网上，它可以作为每日夜间节目，播一年多都不会重复。
Of course, “Simpsons” episodes have not been locked away in a closet, like prized baseball cards. For two decades, repeats of “The Simpsons” have been widely seen on local broadcast television stations. Every other sitcom hit of recent vintage, from “Seinfeld” to “The Big Bang Theory,” has been made available in multiple sales to broadcasters and cable networks alike. Studios rarely leave such opportunities on the table.
当然，《辛普森一家》并未像珍贵的棒球卡那样被束之高阁。20年来，地方电视台经常会重播它。近年来，所有经典的热门情景喜剧都会在公共台和有线电视网多重销售，从《宋飞传》(Seinfeld)到《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)都是如此，制片厂很少放弃这样的机会。
But “The Simpsons” was locked into an unusual — and now vintage — deal. The show was first sold into syndication in 1993. While an enormous hit for Fox, “The Simpsons” always stood out because it was animated. When Fox tried to place live-action comedies adjacent to it, they never really worked.
但是《辛普森一家》受制于一份不同寻常的合约，当然，如今这个合约已经过时了。它于1993年开始被卖给电视网，成了福克斯的大热节目，因为它是动画，所以更是一直格外突出。福克斯公司试图用类似的真人表演喜剧来取代它，但从来没能成功。
So the stations paying hefty rights fees insisted on maintaining exclusivity — meaning no sale to a cable network for as long as they were buying new seasons of reruns. “The Simpsons” — with a cast that never visibly aged — kept making new episodes on Fox, and the syndication contracts kept going.
所以各家出重金购买播放权的电视台都强调独家播放权，也就是说，只要他们还在购买重播权，就不能卖给有线电视网络。《辛普森一家》的“演员”们永远不会老去，所以一直都在福克斯不断推出新剧集，电视网播放合同也一直延续下去。
Until now. The studio has finally worked a way to open the cable window, one that has long been estimated to be worth a fortune to a show that already is one of the greatest moneymakers in entertainment history, considering the value that has been reaped from merchandising, a theme park attraction and a theatrical movie.
直到如今，制片公司终于找到办法，为《辛普森一家》在有线电视台播出找到渠道。《辛普森一家》被认为是娱乐史上最大的摇钱树之一，包括特许商品经营、主题公园和改编电影的收益，然而从有线播放获得的收益即便对它来讲也是一大笔财富。
For the fledgling FXX network, the deal is clearly intended to be a foundation stone. FX, known mainly for well-regarded dramas like “The Shield,” “Nip/Tuck,” “Justified” and “Sons of Anarchy,” spun off its comedy lineup (“Louie,” “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia”) in the all-comedy network starting last September.
对于刚刚起步的FXX电视网来说，这笔交易无疑为它奠定了基础。FX主要以《盾牌》(The Shield)、《整容室》(Nip/Tuck)、《火线警探》(Justified)和《混乱之子》(Sons of Anarchy)等几部口碑甚好的剧集为人们所知，自去年9月，它将《路易不容易》(Louie)和《费城永远阳光灿烂》(It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia)等喜剧系列剥离给FXX这个全喜剧电视台。
The results so far have been lackluster. Ratings for shows that have moved from FX to FXX have been nothing close to what they were in the past. In the most prominent example, the late-night talk show, “Totally Biased With W. Kamau Bell,” had more than 300,000 viewers on FX but fell to fewer than 50,000 on FXX and was canceled this week.
此举迄今为止乏善可陈。从FX转移到FXX的收视率远不如前。最突出的例子就是深夜脱口秀节目《W·卡毛·贝尔：完全偏见》(Totally Biased With W. Kamau Bell)，它在FX拥有30万名观众，但到了FXX，却只剩下5万名观众不到，本周这个节目取消。
Now FX will have a core of comedy programming with the longest track record in television history.
如今FX台拥有了电视史上播出时间最长的剧集作为核心喜剧节目。
Paying the hefty price has less sting because the money essentially moves from one corporate pocket to another — minus the many millions that will be paid to the profit participants in the show, which include, among many others, Matt Groening, who created the original comic characters, and James Brooks, the famed television and movie creator, who brought the show to Fox 25 years ago.
高昂的价格并未给FX带来困扰，因为这笔钱其实是从公司的一个口袋落进了另一个口袋——除去要支付给节目相关者的费用，其中主要有创作了原始漫画形象的马特·格罗宁(Matt Groening)和著名影视制作人詹姆斯·布鲁克斯(James Brooks)，25年前，正是他把这档节目带进了福克斯。