The movie “12 Years a Slave” is receiving rapturous reviews for depicting the antebellum South less as a gauzy land of elegant plantations than as the raw backdrop of monstrous brutality.
电影《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)受到了热烈的正面评价：它没有把南北战争之前的美国南方描绘成飘着薄雾的圣土，到处都是优雅的种植园；这部电影展现了时代背景下的极度残酷之处。
It’s terrific that, in the 21st century, we can squarely face 19th-century slavery. But let’s also acknowledge the modern versions of slavery in the world around us — and, yes, right here at home.
在21世纪，我们可以直面19世纪的奴隶问题，这是一件大好事。但是我们也必须承认，我们生活的世界上确实存在着现代意义上的奴隶制——是的，就在我们国内。
The United States is home to about 60,000 people who can fairly be called modern versions of slaves, according to a new Global Slavery Index released last month by the Walk Free Foundation, which fights human trafficking. These modern slaves aren’t sold in chains in public auctions, so it’s not exactly the same as 19th-century slavery. Those counted today include illegal immigrants forced to work without pay under threat of violence and teenage girls coerced to sell sex and hand all the money to their pimps.
自由行走基金会(Walk Free Foundation)是一家旨在对抗贩卖人口的机构。上个月，他们公布的一份题为《全球奴隶指数》(Global Slavery Index)的新报告指出，美国有约6万人都算的上是现代意义上的奴隶。这些人倒不是绑着铁链，被公开叫价，所以和19世纪的奴隶稍有差别。这些当今的奴隶包括了在暴力威胁下，被强制无偿工作的非法移民，以及被强制卖淫的十几岁少女，她们所有的钱都被皮条客搜走了。
There are, of course, many more ambiguities today than in the 1850s about how to count slaves, but the slavery index finds almost 30 million people enduring modern slavery. More are in India than in any other country, and in some countries, such as Mauritania, children are still born into slavery.
当然，虽然与1850年代相比，关于怎么计算奴隶的人数，现在的标准要模糊很多，但是《奴隶指数》发现，将近3000万人生活在当代的奴隶制之下。印度的奴隶人口世界最多，在诸如毛里塔尼亚这样的国家里，儿童一出生就生活在奴隶制之下。
Who are these modern American slaves?
那么，当代美国的奴隶又是怎样的一群人呢？
One survivor I met last month in New Orleans, Clemmie Greenlee, had her life taken over by a pimp at age 12. She said she spent years having sex with up to 50 men a day. On average, she was beaten 10 times a month, for not meeting her daily quota or other offenses.
上个月，我在新奥尔良遇到了克莱米·葛林丽(Clemmie Greenlee)，她12岁时就被妓院老板控制，好不容易才幸存下来。她说，有好几年时间，她每天得和最多50个男人发生性关系。平均算下来，因为没有完成每日指标或者别的冒犯，她每个月要被打10次。
Why didn’t she run away? Because, she says, of a mix of fear, Stockholm syndrome, emotional manipulation by pimps, hopelessness fueled by drug addiction and distrust of the authorities.
那她为什么不逃走呢？她说，原因很复杂：恐惧、斯德哥尔摩综合征、情绪被妓院老板操控、因为嗑药而导致的希望丧失，以及对于当局的不信任。
Eventually, Greenlee was able to escape that life, and she now runs a residential program called Eden House to help other women start over. An African-American, she says that what trafficked women endure is absolutely an echo of what her ancestors endured on plantations.
最后，葛林丽还是想办法逃离了那种生活。现在，她正在主持一个叫做“伊甸园之家”(Eden House)的项目，就是为了帮助其他女性能够重新开始生活。葛林丽是一位非洲裔美国人，她说，那些被拐卖的女性所忍受的生活，跟她自己的祖先在种植园里的生活非常像。
“If you’re putting a whip on my back because I’m not picking enough cotton, or if you’re beating me because I’m not earning my quota, it’s the same thing,” she said. “It’s slavery.”
她说，“如果，仅仅是因为我没有采摘足额的棉花，你就用皮鞭打我的背，或者因为我没有完成指标就对我拳打脚踢，这就是奴隶制，这是一回事情。”
Slavery isn’t as formal or as widespread in the United States today as it was in the 1850s, of course, but it’s still easy to find. Go to backpage.com, the leading website for prostitution advertising and search for your hometown. Some of the women selling sex there are adults voluntarily in the business, but many are women or girls under the control of pimps who take every penny they earn, brand them with tattoos and beat them if they don’t earn enough.
当然，和18世纪50年代相比，在当今之美国，奴隶制上不得台面，也远没有那么普及；不过想找到它的踪迹也不是难事。Backpage.com是一家主要的卖春网站，你可以登陆上去，选择你的家乡看看。有一些女人之所以卖淫，是因为她们作为成年人自愿从事这个行当，但是很多女人或者少女，则是受到了皮条客控制。皮条客把她们挣的每一分钱都搜走了，给她们刻上纹身，如果挣得不多，还会对她们拳打脚踢。
Yet, in the United States, we typically arrest the victims rather than the pimps or the johns. Rectifying that would be a step toward modern emancipation.
但是在美国，我们一般会去逮捕这些受害者，而不去制裁皮条客和嫖客。如果能够改变这一点，就意味着我们朝着现代的废奴运动向前迈了一步。
The slavery index is the work of Andrew Forrest, an Australian billionaire who was awakened to the issue after his 15-year-old daughter, Grace, worked in an orphanage in Nepal. Grace later revisited the orphanage with her parents to check in on old friends — who were no longer there. They had, it turned out, been sold to brothels abroad.
《奴隶指数》是澳大利亚亿万富翁安德鲁·弗雷斯特(Andrew Forrest)的杰作。弗雷斯特之所以会意识到这个问题的存在，是因为他15岁的女儿格蕾丝曾在尼泊尔的孤儿院帮工。格蕾丝后来同父母一起重回孤儿院，想去探访旧日朋友——但是她们已经不知所踪。后来才发现，她们被卖给了海外的妓院。
After returning to Australia, Forrest ordered a review of his mining company’s supply chains to make sure that there was no forced labor. He promptly found that some overseas laborers had had their passports confiscated and had gone unpaid for years. “With slavery experienced by my family and in my business, it was everywhere if you looked,” he recalls, and he began a campaign against modern slavery.
回到澳大利亚，弗雷斯特让人对他的矿业公司的供应链进行审查，确保没有使用强制劳力。结果他发现，一些海外工人的护照被人收走，无偿工作了好多年。他回忆说，“我的家庭，我的公司都发现了奴隶制的影子，只要你愿意去找，你会发现这个问题无处不在。”他因此开始推广反对当代奴隶制的运动。
Maybe we can find inspiration today not just from “12 Years a Slave,” but also from the anti-slavery movement that began in Britain in the 1780s. It was one of the first great human rights campaigns in the world.
也许，我们不仅能够从《为奴十二年》这样的电影里面寻求灵感，同时，我们也可以从1780年代发端于英国的反奴隶制运动中找到灵感。这是世界上最早的伟大人权运动之一。
People then simply accepted slavery. The Bible encouraged slaves to be obedient, the Church of England owned a major slave plantation in Barbados and Thomas Jefferson advocated powerfully for human freedom except where slaves were involved.
那个时候的人们想当然地接受了奴隶制。《圣经》让奴隶顺从，英国国教就在巴巴多斯拥有一个大型奴隶种植园；托马斯·杰佛逊(Thomas Jefferson)倒是努力鼓吹人类自由，但是这不包括奴隶。
That British abolitionist movement, pioneered by Quakers and led by Thomas Clarkson and William Wilberforce, with help from a former slave named Olaudah Equiano, caught fire and changed the world. Some 390,000 people, more people than were then eligible to vote in Britain, signed petitions against slavery. Hundreds of thousands of people boycotted sugar made with slave labor. It’s a story movingly told by Adam Hochschild in his superb book “Bury the Chains.”
但是英国废奴运动让星星之火汇聚成燎原之势，并因此改变了世界。这次运动的先驱是贵格教派，领导人是托马斯·克拉克森(Thomas Clarkson)和威廉·威伯福斯(William Wilberforce)，他们还获得了一位前奴隶奥拉达·伊奎阿诺(Olaudah Equiano)的帮助。大约39万人签署了废除奴隶制度的请愿书，这一数目比当时英国有投票权的人数还要多。数十万人对采用奴隶劳力的糖产品进行了抵制。亚当·霍西斯柴德(Adam Hochschild)在他的好书《埋葬那锁链》(Bury the Chains)里动情地讲述了这个故事。
The abolitionists succeeded in ending the trans-Atlantic slave trade, but their work is not finished. I fear that a century from now, someone may put together a movie about slavery in 2013, leading our descendants to shake their heads and ask of us: What were they thinking?
废奴主义者成功地终结了横跨大西洋的奴隶贸易，但他们并未完成所有工作。我担心一个世纪之后，可能会有人创作出一部关于2013年的奴隶问题的电影，我们的后代看到之后会摇头，并提出疑问：这些人当时在想些什么啊？