Over the years, Arnold Schwarzenegger has proved to be a skilled reinventor. An Austrian-born competitive bodybuilder, he transformed himself into an internationally loved action star (breaking through as the title character in the 1982 film “Conan the Barbarian”) and later morphed into a politician as governor of California. Since leaving office in 2010, he’s weathered a sex scandal that ended his marriage to Maria Shriver and sought a toehold back in the film industry — winking at his older tough-guy status in “The Expendables” movies, playing an embattled sheriff in “The Last Stand” and going the low-budget indie route as a grizzled dad in the recent zombie movie “Maggie.”
多年来，阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)已经证明自己非常擅长重塑自身形象。他原本是一位奥地利出生的健美运动员，1982年，靠着在电影《野蛮人柯南》(Conan the Barbarian)中饰演柯南，成为备受全球影迷喜爱的动作明星；后来更是成为政治家，当上了加利福尼亚州州长。2010年卸任后，他卷入一桩性丑闻，与玛利亚·施莱沃(Maria Shrive)离婚，再度谋求返回电影界，在《敢死队》(The Expendables)系列中塑造年老硬汉的形象，又在《背水一战》(The Last Stand)中饰演腹背受敌的警长，在近期的僵尸片《丧家之女》(Maggie)中走低成本独立路线，饰演一位头发花白的老爸。
For the latest installment of the sci-fi “Terminator” series, “Terminator Genisys” (out Wednesday), Mr. Schwarzenegger, 67, put the reinvention on pause, slipped back on the dark sunglasses, leather jacket and jackboots, and returned to the familiar world of explosions, catchphrases and deadpan deliveries as a senior T-800 cyborg nicknamed Pops. The new film sets up another time-travel scenario in which the Sarah Connor of 1984 (Emilia Clarke of “Game of Thrones”) is a target of forces from a grim future in which humans and machines fight for domination.
科幻片《终结者》(Terminator)系列的新片《终结者5：创世纪》(Terminator Genisys)于上周三上映，在片中，67岁的施瓦辛格暂时停止了重塑自身，回归到旧有的墨镜、皮夹克与长筒靴形象，也回归到熟悉的充满爆炸的世界，再一次充当那个面无表情、常常冒出格言警句、绰号“Pops”的高级机器人T-800。新片创造出新的时空旅行场景，1984年，莎拉·康纳（Sarah Connor，由《权力的游戏》[Game of Thrones]中的艾米莉亚·克拉克[Emilia Clarke]饰演），成了未来世界一股势力的追杀对象，在那个阴郁的世界里，人类与机器争夺对世界的控制权。
One of Mr. Schwarzenegger’s earliest reviews came from James Cameron, the original “Terminator” director, who pronounced “Genisys” the true sequel to 1991’s “Terminator 2: Judgment Day” — thus dismissing the two poorly received follow-ups in between, one featuring Mr. Schwarzenegger and one not.
施瓦辛格在早期得到的评价中，就有来自詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)的，这位《终结者》最早的导演说《创世纪》才是1991年的《终结者2：审判日》(Terminator 2: Judgment Day)的真正续集，这样就等于否认了中间的两部评价不高的续作（施瓦辛格出演了其中一部）。
Recently, Mr. Schwarzenegger spoke about growing older, life in franchise-happy Hollywood and the cyborg’s unsettling smile. Here are edited excerpts from the conversation:
最近，施瓦辛格在接受采访的时候谈起了年龄增长、追捧商业大片的好莱坞生活，以及机器人令人不安的微笑。下面是对话的编辑节选版：
Q. Describe the call from the producers David and Megan Ellison asking you back as the Terminator.
问：说说制片人戴维(David)和梅根·埃里森(Megan Ellison)邀请你回来当“终结者”的那通电话吧。
A. During the fourth “Terminator,” I was the governor, so I just made it very clear: I cannot be a part of this because my responsibility is to serve the people. The call from them came a month or two after I was finished with the governorship. I told them yes, I would be interested, but before I would commit, I had to see the script. They did a smart thing to repeat the story from 1984 and then just go in a different direction.
答：第四部《终结者》拍摄期间我还是州长，所以我明确表示了不参加，因为我的责任是服务民众。我从州长位子退下来以后大概一两个月，他们就给我打了电话。我说好，我很有兴趣，但答应之前我得看剧本。他们用一种很聪明的方式重述了1984年的那个故事，然后走向了一个不同的方向。
Q. At one point, Terminators of different eras duke it out. What’s it like to film a scene in which you fight with a naked circa-1984 version of you?
问：片中有一幕是各种时代的终结者们大打出手。拍摄你和裸体的1984年的你自己打架是什么感觉？
A. It was wild. When you’re doing it, you never really know what it’s going to end up looking like.
答：很疯狂。拍这样的东西时，你永远不知道最后拍出来的东西会是什么样子。
If the movie was owned by the same studio, we could have literally lifted the footage — but we didn’t, and they weren’t about to share. So we had to recreate the entire scene, recreate me. I wondered: Can I really sell it? Can they even create a younger version of me from the earlier “Terminator”? The visual effects and the kind of technology that’s available to recreate me exactly the way I looked and acted in 1984 is amazing. The body builder I actually fought with was a very muscular guy, but his body wasn’t the same as mine. So they even changed that to make it look real.
如果这部片子还是原来的公司拍，我们就可以剪辑原来的胶片，但并不是这样，原来的公司也不打算分享。所以我们得重新创造整个场景，重新创造我。我想：我真能拍好吗？他们能创造出早期《终结者》里那个年轻的我吗？最后视觉效果和现有的各种技术真的能够重新创造出一个我，和1984年的我长得一模一样，动作也一模一样，真是太有意思了。拍片时和我打架的那个真人是个健身运动员，他肌肉很发达，但他的身体和我不一样。他们改变了他的身体，看上去真实极了。
Q. Did you put a lot of energy into getting back into Terminator-level shape?
问：为了恢复“终结者”级别的体型，你花费了很大精力吗？
A. Absolutely. I wanted to be the same weight as I was in 1984. We all were clear that I’d have to be the same size even though my face is different now and my body is not the same. So I had to train twice as much to get the muscle size back.
答：绝对的！我想达到和1984年一样的体重。我们都清楚，虽然我的脸变了，我的身体也不一样了，但我得恢复到和当年一样的体型。所以我得做双倍的训练，让肌肉回来。
Q. Is the iconic action hero a thing of the past?
问：动作明星偶像是不是已经过时了？
A. I think Dwayne Johnson is a terrific action hero. He’s a great athlete, has a great personality, and his body looks terrific. Then there are people like Liam Neeson, who has never done any action movies and all of the sudden at his age he’s getting lots of offers. It’s one of those odd things: If you can handle certain action scenes, it’s believable and the audience is with you; your age doesn’t matter. Is it still the same as it was back in the ’80s where there were a whole bunch of action heroes and we were all competing? Maybe that period doesn’t exist anymore.
答：我觉得道恩·强森(Dwayne Johnson)是个很棒的动作片明星。他是个优秀的运动员，性格很好，身材也棒。还有连姆·尼森(Liam Neeson)这样的人，他以前没怎么拍过动作片，到了一定年纪，突然接到很多动作片的片约。这也是怪事之一：如果你能拍好某些动作场面，看上去真实可信，观众就会喜欢你，年龄就不是问题。80年代有不少动作片明星，我们都在竞争，现在还是不是这样呢？也许那个时代是一去不复返了。
Q. A “Conan” reboot is in the works at Universal, with you reportedly reprising the bare-chested barbarian. Is your strategy to breathe life into all your old franchises? 
问：环球公司(Universal)正在重拍《柯南》，有报道说你打算在片中重演那个袒露胸膛的野蛮人。你是打算让以前拍的所有商业大片里的角色都复活吗？
A. I’ve been interested in “Conan” since I did the last “Conan” movie in the ’80s. But studios are the ones who call the shots. If they don’t want to move on those projects, they don’t. Now they’re very interested. I recently got the script to the new “Conan.” It’s really well-written.
答：自从80年代拍过最后一部《柯南》电影以来，我对它一直都很感兴趣。但是这要由制片公司说了算。如果他们不打算重启这些片子，那就不会。现在他们很感兴趣，我最近拿到了新《柯南》的剧本，改编得很好。
Q. Of the offers you’re getting, what’s calling to you?
问：你接的片约里，最想拍的是哪一部？
A. One project I’ve always felt very passionate about is “Triplets,” the sequel to “Twins.”
答：我一直都对《三胞胎》(Triplets)充满热情，它是《龙兄鼠弟》的续集。
Q. As in a follow-up to your 1988 mismatched brothers separated-at-birth comedy? Why?
问：就是你1988那部喜剧，讲一对从小就被分开，不怎么搭调的兄弟的故事，对吧？为什么？
A. I always liked “Twins” a lot — it was such a big hit — and I always thought it would make a great sequel if we found a third brother, a triplet. And that is Eddie Murphy.
答：我一直都很喜欢《龙兄鼠弟》，它也是很受欢迎的大片，我一直都觉得，如果能再找到第三个兄弟，三胞胎，肯定能拍一部很好的续集。现在第三个弟弟是艾迪·墨菲(Eddie Murphy)饰演。
Q. What’s it like to leave the film industry for seven years and upon re-entering it see that it has changed?
问：你离开电影工业七年，然后又回来，一切都变了，你有什么感受？
A. I never wondered, Can I get back in? I just felt the trick was, How can I hold onto my passion for policy? When I got into the governorship, I didn’t know if I’d have the patience for policy. But I was very surprised that I got really interested in environmental issues, political reform issues, stem cell research. So I had to figure out how to do both. You just really have to plan your day well.
答：我从来没想过“我还能回来吗”之类的。我觉得困难的问题是“我该怎么保持自己对政策的热情”。当州长的时候，我不知道我有没有耐心去执行政策。但是我真的对环保问题、政治改革问题、干细胞研究问题很感兴趣，这让我自己也觉得惊讶。所以我得想办法二者兼顾，你真得好好安排日程。
Q. The mechanical smile that the Terminator began flashing in 1991 has somehow become even creepier in “Genisys.” How did you come up with that slow, toothy grimace?
问：1991年，终结者脸上开始露出那个机械的笑容，在《创世纪》里面重现，更显得有点诡异。那个缓慢、露出牙齿的怪相你是怎么想到的？
A. It’s a smile that comes from no emotions, a fake gesture from a machine trying to be as human as possible and failing miserably. It’s a smile that doesn’t come from your tummy or your heart or from something triggered that makes you laugh. And that’s what creates the comic relief.
答：那是一个没有表情的微笑，是一个机器尽量想装成人类而伪装出的表情，结果失败了。这个微笑不是来自内心，也不是有什么东西逗你发笑。这造成一种喜剧性的穿插。