Modern factory farms have so much wrong with them, but a starting point is the practice of turning pigs into cannibals.
现代工业化农场劣迹斑斑，但是它们把猪变成同类相食的动物，则是我首先要谈的一点。
A video, taken secretly by an undercover worker and scheduled to be released on Thursday by the Humane Society of the United States, pulls back the curtain on the banal brutality of a huge hog operation in Kentucky called Iron Maiden Farms (which declined to comment). The video shows barns filled with hogs jammed so tightly into tiny individual pens that they can’t move, chewing forlornly on the bars that restrain them.
美国人道协会(Humane Society of the United States)定于周四公布一段视频，该视频是一名充当卧底的工人秘密拍摄的，揭露了肯塔基州一个大型养猪场铁娘子农场(Iron Maiden Farms)一贯的残忍行径，该农场拒绝置评。视频中显示，在一些大棚里，大量的猪被关在一个个狭小的猪圈里，挤得根本无法动弹，它们绝望地啃噬着囚禁着它们的围栏。
It also shows workers gutting dead piglets and turning their intestines into a purée that is then fed back to the mother pigs, or sows. This is meant to immunize the sows against a virus, porcine epidemic diarrhea, or P.E.D., that has ravaged the hog industry, killing millions of piglets.
视频中还显示，工人们取出死亡小猪的内脏，把它们的肠子搅成糊，然后喂给母猪吃。这么做是为了使母猪对猪流行性腹泻（porcine epidemic diarrhea，缩写PED）病毒产生免疫。这种病毒已经给养猪业造成巨大冲击，导致大量猪仔死亡。
Tom Burkgren, the executive director of the American Association of Swine Veterinarians, said that feeding the piglet intestines to sows is legal and safe but that hog farmers are increasingly finding that it’s more effective simply to use diarrhea from an infected animal to expose sows to P.E.D.
美国猪科兽医协会(American Association of Swine Veterinarians)执行主管汤姆·伯克格伦(Tom Burkgren)说，让母猪吃小猪肠子的做法是合法的，而且是安全的，但越来越多的猪农发现，用受感染牲畜的腹泻病毒让母猪产生免疫的方法更有效。
“From a public health standpoint, I don’t think there’s a risk there,” Burkgren said, noting that P.E.D. affects only pigs. “There’s no mad pig disease.”
伯克格伦说，“从公共卫生的角度讲，我不认为这种做法存在风险。他指出，猪流行性腹泻病毒只能感染猪。“不存在疯猪病这种东西。”
That’s a reference to mad cow disease, which was spread by feeding ground-up cows to other cows. Likewise, giant poultry farms feed “spent hen meal,” consisting of ground-up old chickens, to egg-laying hens.
他是在拿疯牛病进行类比，疯牛病是通过用碎牛肉喂牛而大范围传播的。同样地，大型家禽农场也让下蛋的母鸡吃“老母鸡餐”，这里面掺有绞碎了的老母鸡肉。
Whether or not there are public health risks to feeding pig parts to pigs, there are larger issues about the way we raise our food. Nine out of 10 sows in America are kept in gestation crates, according to the National Pork Producers Council. These are tiny stalls that are barely bigger than the pigs, who don’t even have enough room to turn around.
无论让猪吃猪内脏是否会引发公共卫生风险，在我们生产食物的方式上，都存在着更大的问题。根据美国猪肉生产者协会(National Pork Producers Council)的数据，美国每10只母猪中就有9只是在妊娠定位栏里饲养的。这些猪栏比猪本身大不了多少，猪甚至连转身的空间都没有。
They live out their adult lives without exercise or meaningful social interaction; it’s like a life sentence of solitary confinement in a coffin, punctuated by artificial insemination and birth. No wonder the animals’ muscles atrophy and they show signs of aggression and stress.
这些猪在成年后没有什么活动，也缺乏有意义的社交互动；它们就像是被单独关在棺材里服无期徒刑，期间会经历人工受精和生育。难怪这些猪的肌肉会萎缩，并表现出攻击性和紧张的情绪。
“It’s very inhumane,” says Paul Willis, who raises hogs with greater space and founded the Niman Ranch Pork Company, a network of 500 hog farmers raising animals humanely.
在养猪时会为猪提供更大空间的保罗·威利斯(Paul Willis)说，“这非常不人道。”威利斯创办了尼曼牧场猪肉公司(Niman Ranch Pork Company)，这是一个由500名猪农组成的网络，倡导以人道的方式养猪。
Willis says of the factory farms: “They have to feed the animals laxatives because they don’t get enough exercise to defecate. The pigs get sores, the equivalent of bedsores from concrete. They get joint problems.”
威利斯在提到工业化农场时说：“他们必须给动物吃轻泻剂，因为动物没有做足够的运动，容易便秘。这些猪的身上长了疮，相当于褥疮，只不过是水泥引起的。它们的关节也有问题。”
My family raised pigs on the Oregon farm where I grew up. Our hogs were as smart as dogs and had personalities just as distinct. I also learned that it’s a misconception to think of pigs as filthy. On the contrary, when they have space, they are quite tidy and don’t defecate near where they sleep. They cover themselves in mud partly to avoid sunburn.
在我小的时候，我家曾在俄勒冈的农场养过猪。我们家的猪和狗一样聪明，而且同样个性鲜明。我还知道，认为猪很脏的想法是错误的。相反，如果它们拥有足够的空间，它们会非常注意整洁，从不在睡觉的地方附近排泄。它们在身上裹泥的一个原因是为了防晒。
Industrial farming is justly proud of its efficiency. But to curb disease in crowded conditions, it routinely feeds antibiotics to animals, spreading antibiotic-resistant microbes that then infect humans. Confinement operations also produce vast amounts of manure that pollute water sources. So while factory farms produce cheap pork, they impose external costs such as pollution and disease that the public pays for.
工业化农场的确有理由为自己的效率感到骄傲。不过，为了在拥挤的饲养条件下控制疾病，它们会定期给牲畜喂食抗生素，这导致了耐药微生物的传播，而这些微生物随后会传播给人。限制动物活动的做法还会产生大量粪便，进而污染水源。因此，尽管工业化农场生产的猪肉很便宜，它们造成的外部成本，比如污染和疾病，则需要公众承担。
While forcing hogs to be solitary and immobile in gestation crates for their entire adult lives is soul-crushing, popular disgust is leading to a revolution in industrial farming practices. Whole Foods and Chipotle and Burger King were among the first companies to avoid pigs raised in gestation crates, and, in the last few years, McDonalds, Safeway, Costco, Oscar Mayer and dozens of other companies have announced similar moves, often after a transition. It doesn’t seem as though costs will rise significantly.
让成年后的猪在妊娠定位栏里忍受孤独、无法行动令人于心不忍，同时公众的不满正在引发一场试图改变工业化农场操作的革命。全食超市(Whole Foods)、Chipotle、汉堡王(Burger King)等公司率先抵制妊娠定位栏里饲养的猪，过去几年，麦当劳(McDonald's)、西夫韦(Safeway)、好市多(Costco)、Oscar Mayer等几十家公司也宣布了类似的措施，但通常需要一个过渡。这样做似乎成本也不会增加很多。
Carl Icahn, the investor, warned Tyson Foods that it had to drop gestation crates if it wanted to find buyers for its pork. Tyson got the message: Just last month, it wrote to all its suppliers and told them to treat pigs more humanely and to give them space to turn around. Smithfield Foods, which is the world’s largest pork producer and was acquired last year by a Chinese company, last month reaffirmed its commitment to transition away from gestation crates.
投资人卡尔·C·伊坎(Carl C. Icahn)警告泰森食品(Tyson Foods)，如果想要为猪肉找到买家，必须放弃妊娠定位猪栏。泰森领会了：就在上个月，它给所有供应商写了信，要求它们以更人道的方式对待猪，让猪有转身的空间。史密斯菲尔德食品公司(Smithfield Foods)是世界上最大的猪肉生产商，去年被一家中国企业收购，该公司上个月再次申明了逐渐放弃妊娠定位猪栏的决心。
So the tide is turning because consumers are making their preferences known. Today perhaps the larger scandal is the push by agribusiness for “ag-gag” laws that ban undercover videos like the Humane Society’s. The aim is to hide abuses of animal welfare by denying the public access to information about how livestock are raised.
因此，由于消费者正在表明他们的立场，形势正在发生改变。如今，更大的丑行可能是农业企业推动“封口”(ag-gag)法律的实施，这类法律禁止类似于美国人道协会这样通过卧底拍摄的视频，目的是让公众无法获得有关牲畜饲养方式的信息，进而掩盖侵犯动物权益的事实。
“We’re deeply disassociated from so much of the animal cruelty in our society,” noted Wayne Pacelle, the president of the Humane Society of the United States. “This kind of conduct would not be tolerated if it were visible.”
美国人道协会会长韦恩·帕赛尔(Wayne Pacelle)指出，“我们对社会中很多虐待动物的行为还极其不了解。这种行为一经发现，我们绝不容忍。”