Business wonk that I am, my favorite moment in last week’s Republican debate came when Carly Fiorina and Donald Trump got into a spat over which of them had the lousier track record as business leaders.
我可是个商业迷。上周的共和党总统候选人辩论里，我最喜欢的时刻是，卡莉·菲奥里纳(Carly Fiorina)和唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)争执起他们两人中，究竟谁的经商纪录更差劲的那一段。
“The company is a disaster,” scoffed Trump, referring to Hewlett-Packard, the iconic technology company Fiorina ran from 1999 to 2005. Trump continued: “When Carly says the revenues went up that’s because she bought Compaq. It was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.”
谈到菲奥里纳在1999年到2005年间执掌的赫赫有名的科技公司惠普(Hewlett-Packard)时，特朗普嘲笑道，“那家公司是场灾难。卡莉说什么营收提升了，其实是因为她买了康柏(Compaq)。这交易糟糕得很，实际上导致公司被毁掉了。”
Fiorina responded by focusing on how Trump ran his three Atlantic City casinos into the ground. “You ran up mountains of debt, as well as losses,” she said, “using other people’s money, and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once, not twice [but] four times, a record four times.”
菲奥里纳以集中攻击特朗普回应，称特朗普搞垮了旗下三家位于大西洋城的赌场。“你的债务堆积成山，亏损也是，”她说，“花的是别人的钱，你还被迫申请破产，不是一次，也不是两次。［而是］四次，创纪录的四次。”
They’re both right. Fiorina’s tenure at HP was indeed a disaster, and Trump’s casino interests did indeed file for bankruptcy multiple times. Now that Trump and Fiorina are number one and number two in a recent poll — oy! — it’s worth taking a closer look at their business records.
两人说的都不错。菲奥里纳执掌惠普的岁月确实是场灾难，而特朗普的赌场业务也确实多次申请破产。既然特朗普和菲奥里纳在近期民调里排名前二——呃！——他们的经商成绩倒是值得我们仔细推敲一下。
Fiorina’s effort to revise her reputation began in October 2006, some 20 months after she was ousted as the chief executive of HP, when she published her autobiography. In it, she claimed that she had taken a company that was adrift and gotten it humming again. She described her firing as the action of a dysfunctional board, which it certainly was. But that was in no small part because the directors played Charlie Brown to her Lucy. Again and again, she would say that progress was right around the corner, and they believed her; again and again, she disappointed.
菲奥里纳扭转自己名声的努力始于2006年10月：她从惠普首席执行官职位上被撤掉大概20个月后，出版了一本自传。她在书中宣称，自己将一家失去方向的公司，一手改造得再次焕发生机。至于她被解雇，则被描述成了运转失灵的董事会的杰作。惠普的董事会的确不灵光，但很大一部分原因是，董事们之于她，就像是查理·布朗之于露西。一次又一次，她都宣称转机近在咫尺，他们相信了；一次又一次，她都让人失望了。
By every metric that mattered, HP was in far worse shape when she was fired than when she was hired. The company’s stock price dropped more than 50 percent during her tenure, compared to a 7 percent drop in the S.&P. 500. And net earnings dropped to $2.4 billion from $3.1 billion during that same time. The Compaq merger, meanwhile, was a misguided fiasco; today, virtually all remnants of it have disappeared from HP. Fiorina’s me-me-me leadership style demoralized the company and its shareholders. When she walked out the door in February 2005 — with a $21 million severance package — the stock jumped nearly 7 percent.
不管怎样衡量，在解雇菲奥里纳的时候，惠普的状况都比聘用她的时候要糟糕得多。在她任内，公司股价下挫逾50%，而标准普尔500指数的跌幅为7%。公司的净利润从31亿美元减少到24亿美元。而且并购康柏的交易也遭遇惨败，今天，康柏的所有痕迹基本上都从惠普消失殆尽了。菲奥里纳那种围着自己转的领导风格，让员工和股东都士气低迷。2005年2月，当她——拿着2100万美元的遣散费——走出惠普大门时，公司股价跃升近7%。
Trump? He’s a business legend, all right, — in his own mind. To listen to him, you’d think he is the greatest business person of all time. He is not even close. What he mainly is, as his presidential campaign is proving, is our era’s P.T. Barnum.
至于特朗普呢？好吧，他是个商业传奇——在他自己心中是。听他的论调，你会以为他是史上最伟大的商业奇才。其实他差得十万八千里。正如他的总统竞选所显示的那样，他基本上是当代的马戏大王P·T·巴纳姆(P.T. Barnum)。
The key fact about Trump’s early success is that it would never have happened without his father Fred’s money. As Tim O’Brien points out in his highly entertaining 2005 biography, “TrumpNation,” Trump would have flopped in his first foray in the big time — turning the Commodore Hotel into the Grand Hyatt in Midtown Manhattan — if his father had not lent him the money to cover cost overruns.
特朗普最初成功的关键点是，没有他的老爸弗雷德的钱，这事压根就不会发生。蒂姆·奥布莱恩(Tim O’Brien)在2005年出版的一本趣味性十足的传记《特朗普帝国》(TrumpNation)中指出，要不是父亲借给他钱来填补预算超支的窟窿，他在商业上的第一个大手笔项目——把海军准将酒店(Commodore Hotel)变为曼哈顿中城的君悦酒店(Grand Hyatt)——就会告吹。
According to O’Brien, Fred Trump bailed out his son on other occasions, most notably when he bought $3.5 million worth of chips at one of Trump’s casinos — and then didn’t use them to gamble, in violation of state casino regulations — so that his son would have enough to make a loan payment.
依照奥布莱恩的说法，弗雷德·特朗普还救过儿子好几次，尤其是在他的一家赌场里，买下了价值350万美元的筹码——弗雷德并未用这些筹码赌博，这违反了涉及赌场的州级法规——好让儿子有足够的钱去还贷款。
As for the casino bankruptcies, Trump likes to characterize them as shrewd business moves, and stresses that he never filed for personal bankruptcy. But those corporate bankruptcies were costly; he wound up having to give up many of his real estate holdings, and was even put on a monthly budget for a time.
说到赌场破产的事，特朗普喜欢描述为精明的商业选择，强调他从未申请过个人破产。不过，这些商业破产代价不菲；他不得不放弃手中的不少地产，甚至有段时间还要被迫受到月度预算的限制。
And with some $900 million in personal guarantees, he avoided personal bankruptcy by a whisker. Again, according to O’Brien, Trump borrowed millions from his siblings to keep his head above water. Today, a far more cautious Donald Trump runs what amounts to a Potemkin company, with a staff that mainly licenses his “brand.” He owns very few of the buildings with the Trump name on them.
借助大约9亿美元的个人担保，他惊险地躲过了个人破产。奥布莱恩的书中披露，特朗普又一次从手足那里借来了巨款来让自己脱身。到了今天，唐纳德·特朗普行事要谨慎得多，经营的是外强中干的“花架子”企业，员工主要在推销他的“品牌”。打着特朗普名号的大楼中，他本人拥有的没有几座。
Trump claims, implausibly, to be worth over $8 billion. (Forbes puts his net worth at half that amount.) But even taking him at his word, that sum is less impressive than you’d think. As several writers have pointed out, if, in 1988, he had simply put his money in a stock index fund, it would be worth $13 billion today. In effect, his post-1988 business career has cost him $5 billion.
特朗普难以自圆其说地号称身家超过了80亿美元。（福布斯对他净值的估算是这个数字的一半。）姑且信之，这个数目也并不像人们想的那样厉害。正如几名作者指出的那样，如果在1988年的时候，他干脆把钱都放进一家股票指数基金，那么今天就能收获130亿美元。这样算来，他在1988年之后的经商生涯里，实际上亏损了50亿美元。
Even putting aside their policy positions, their narcissism, their poor records as leaders and their lack of scruples in spinning failures as triumphs all suggest that Fiorina and Trump would make terrible presidents. To my mind, there is only one entrepreneur who has both a record of true business accomplishment and government service to merit consideration as a presidential candidate.
就算不考虑菲奥里纳和特朗普的政策立场，他们的自恋、他们作为商界领导人物糟糕的履历、将失败硬说成胜利时的无耻，全都表明二人会是糟糕的总统。在我心中，只有一位企业家具备总统候选人的资格。此人既有货真价实的商业成就，又有实实在在的政府服务经验。
I can’t be the only one who wishes Michael Bloomberg would enter the race, can I?
希望迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael Bloomberg)竞选的人，不会只有我一个，对吧？