A 10-year study of more than 3,000 women has found that dietary iron may reduce the risk for premenstrual syndrome, while potassium intake may increase it.
一个长达10年，覆盖3000多名女性的研究发现，摄入铁可能会减少发现经前综合症的可能性，而摄入钾则可能增加发生经前综合症的可能性。
Using data from a larger analysis of women’s health, researchers studied 1,057 women with PMS and 1,968 control subjects. They used questionnaires to establish their nutrient intake, both food and supplements, and established cases of PMS by clinical diagnosis.
研究者通过使用一项更大型的关于女性健康的分析数据，研究了1057名患有经前综合症的女性和1968名对照研究对象。他们发放问卷，了解她们的营养摄入量（包括食物和营养补充剂），并根据医院诊断记录，建立了经前综合症患者的档案。
After controlling for various health and dietary factors, they found that women in the highest 20 percent for iron intake were about 40 percent less likely to suffer PMS as those in the lowest 20 percent.
在排除了多项健康和饮食因素后，研究者发现那些铁摄入量位居前20%的女性相比位居倒数20%的女性，患经前综合症的可能性低了40%。
The study, published online in The American Journal of Epidemiology, found the opposite effect with potassium. Those in the highest 20 percent of intake had a 46 percent increased risk for PMS compared with those in the lowest 20 percent. There was no risk associated with intake of magnesium, zinc, manganese, copper or sodium.
这项发表在《美国流行病学杂志》(The American Journal of Epidemiology)的研究发现，钾元素则会产生相反的作用。那些钾摄入量位居前20%的女性相比位居倒数20%的女性，患经前综合症的可能性高出了46%。至于镁、锌、镁、铜和钠，对此则没有影响。
The senior author, Elizabeth R. Bertone-Johnson, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Massachusetts, cautioned women against taking too much iron, or consuming too little potassium, both of which can be harmful. “Eating a balanced diet with a variety of foods,” she said, “is a good way to ensure that women are consuming important vitamins and minerals.”
该研究的资深作者、马萨诸塞大学(University of Massachusetts)流行病学副教授伊丽莎白·R·伯顿-约翰逊(Elizabeth R. Bertone-Johnson)提醒女性不要因此摄入过多铁或摄入过少钾，这两种做法都是有害的。她说：“女性应当吃各种食物，均衡饮食，这样可以确保她们摄取重要维生素和矿物质。”
The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine recommends 18 milligrams of iron daily for women 19 to 50, and 4,700 milligrams of potassium a day for all adults.
美国医学研究所食物与营养委员会(Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine)推荐19到50岁的女性每天的铁摄入量为18毫克，所有成年人的钾摄入量为4700毫克。