Joe Tsoi Chun-Kin, a 17-year-old student from the southern Chinese city of Dongguan, visits Hong Kong about every two weeks to shop for clothes and other items, spending a few thousand renminbi per trip.
乔·蔡俊健（Joe Tsoi Chun-Kin, 音译）是中国南方城市东莞的一名17岁的学生，他差不多每两周就去一趟香港，去采购衣服和其他东西，每次花掉几千元人民币。
Chen Huiwen, a design student from Shandong Province, in northeastern China, comes every few months to stock up on cosmetics and clothes. He and his girlfriend were busy shopping for beauty products in the bustling, gleaming halls of one of Hong Kong’s most upscale malls in the past week. Their total shopping budget for the trip: 30,000 to 40,000 renminbi, or about $5,000 to $6,600.
设计专业的学生陈辉文（音译）家住北方的山东省，为了备足化妆品和衣服，他每隔几个月来这里一次。他和他的女朋友上周在香港一家最高档商场熙熙攘攘、珠光宝气的大堂里，忙着购买美容用品。他们给这趟采购设的预算在3万到4万元人民币之间。
Not far away, Cathy Chen Siwen, a sports teacher at a high school in Shanghai, was shopping for Apple products. Someday, she said, she hopes to travel to Australia and Africa.
不远处，上海一所高中的体育老师凯西·陈思文（Cathy Chen Siwen, 音译）正在购买苹果产品。她说，她希望有朝一日去澳大利亚和非洲旅行。
The Chinese economy is growing less swiftly, but one thing has not suffered at all: Chinese citizens’ ravenous appetite for travel beyond their borders.
虽然中国经济增长的速度在放缓，但是，有一个方面一点也没有受到影响，那就是中国人出境旅游的旺盛需求。
Data released by Hong Kong on Friday showed that a record 40.7 million mainland Chinese crossed the border to the former British colony last year. That is up 16.7 percent from the previous year, and nearly ten times the 2001 number. And it means Hong Kong remains by far the most popular destination for Chinese travelers, who made a total of 97 million trips abroad last year — also a record — according to statistics released by Beijing this month.
香港周五发布的数据显示，跨界到访这个英国前殖民地的中国大陆人数去年创下新纪录，达到4070万人，比上一年增长了16.7%，是2001年来港人数的近10倍。这意味着，香港作为中国游客最喜欢的旅游地仍遥遥领先于其他国家和地区。北京本月发布的数据显示，去年中国游客赴海外观光人数已达到9700万。
But, increasingly, Chinese tourists are venturing farther afield, as rising affluence and easing of visa restrictions in many countries make it ever easier for them to venture abroad.
然而，随着人们富裕水平的进一步提高以及更多的国家放松签证限制，中国游客去更远的地方旅游也变得越来越容易。
‘‘You’ll be seeing huge growth in outbound Chinese travel,’’ said Aaron Fischer, head of consumer and gaming research in the Hong Kong office of CLSA. ‘‘Visitor numbers in some places are going to treble and quadruple in the next few years — it’s a huge theme for the future.’’
里昂证券(CLSA)驻香港办事处消费与博彩业研究部门的负责人亚伦·费希尔(Aaron Fischer)说，“我们将看到中国人出境旅游的巨幅增长。未来几年中，一些地方的中国游客数量将会是现在的三倍到四倍，这是未来的一个巨大主题。”
Already, Chinese visitors are a common sight on Oxford Street in London, the Champs Élysées in Paris and Madison Avenue in New York. The Italian luxury retailer Prada has hired Mandarin- speaking sales assistants to cater to Chinese shoppers in Milan. Frankfurt Airport in 2012 introduced a Mandarin- language app providing flight and shopping information – all in a bid to cater to the swelling numbers of visitors from China, which has the world’s second- largest economy, after the United States.
现在，中国游客出现在伦敦的牛津街(Oxford Street)、巴黎的香榭丽舍大道(Champs Élysées)、以及纽约的麦迪逊大道(Madison Avenue)上已经是一种常态。意大利奢侈品零售商普拉达(Prada)已经在米兰聘用了讲普通话的销售助理，来为中国顾客提供服务。法兰克福机场在2012年启用了一个提供航班和购物信息的普通话应用软件，目的是为了迎合人数不断增长的中国游客的需求。中国是世界上第二大经济体，仅次于美国。
And the trend is expected to continue. CLSA, in a 287-page report published Monday, said it expected the number of outbound Chinese travelers to double to 200 million by 2020.
这一趋势预计会持续下去。里昂证券在周一发布的一份长达287页的报告中称，预计到2020年去境外旅游的中国游客人数将增加一倍，达到2亿。
Hong Kong, Macau — a former Portuguese colony turned gambling hub — and Thailand are the top destinations now, and are expected to remain popular. But other destinations, too, will have big increases. By 2020, CLSA estimates, 5.7 million Chinese will visit the United States — up from 1.6 million in 2012. The numbers of visits to France and Germany are expected to about treble. Mainland visitors to Thailand could nearly quadruple, to 10.7 million.
香港、澳门以及泰国是目前最受欢迎的旅游地点，澳门是葡萄牙的前殖民地，也是一个博彩中心，这些地方预计将继续受到游客欢迎。但是，其他旅游地的游客数量也将出现大幅增长。里昂证券预计到2020年，将有570万中国游客去美国旅游，大大高于2012年的160万；前往法国和德国的中国游客数量预计将是如今的三倍；去泰国旅游的大陆游客将达到1070万，是如今的四倍。
Large as those figures are, however, they remain dwarfed by the flood of mainland Chinese visitors to Hong Kong. They come here mainly to shop — and no longer just for big-ticket luxury items.
然而，尽管这些数字很大，但是与来香港的内地游客人数相比，却相形见绌。中国游客来香港主要是为了购物，而且不再只是为了购买昂贵的奢侈品。
‘‘Our family shops for household items and toiletries, like shampoo and body wash,’’ said Lola Lu, an advertising agency employee, in the past week, on one of her weekly visits to Hong Kong. ‘‘We also buy pills for colds and flu.’’
在一家广告公司就职的罗拉·陆（Lola Lu，音译）上周在香港时说，“我家人来这里购买日常用品和洗浴用品，比如洗发液和沐浴液什么的。我们也买治疗流感和感冒的药。”她每周都会来一次香港。
Taxes and price differences mean it is much cheaper to buy a Louis Vuitton handbag or an iPad Mini in Hong Kong than on the mainland. Some of the cross- border traffic from China is generated by traders who make multiple shopping trips a week to capitalize on such price differences.
关税和价格差意味着在香港买路易威登(Louis Vuitton)的手包或iPad Mini要比在大陆便宜不少。一些大陆和香港之间的跨界交通量来自那些每周多次往返购物的商贩们，他们利用这种价格差赚钱。
The renminbi’s sharp rise since mid- 2010 against the dollar — to which the Hong Kong dollar is pegged — also gives mainlanders more bang for their buck. Mr. Tsoi, the student from Dongguan, was carrying a full suitcase and several carrier bags while shopping in Sha Tin, a neighborhood that has become increasingly popular with mainland shoppers, last Wednesday. ‘‘I come here often and I shop for clothes mostly,’’ he said. ‘‘Clothes are cheaper here, because of the exchange rate, and the selection is better.’’
人民币自2010年中以来一直在对美元升值，而港元则与美元挂钩，这使得人民币的购买力进一步增长。上周三来沙田采购的东莞学生蔡俊健，带走了装满东西的旅行箱和几个购物袋，沙田已成为大陆购物者越来越青睐的购物区。他说，“我经常来这里，主要是买衣服。因为汇率的原因，香港的衣服更便宜，而且选择也更多。”
And then there is the perception that items bought outside the mainland are of better quality and likely not to have been counterfeited or tampered with — an important consideration in a country haunted by numerous scandals involving adulterated food and medicines.
而且还有另外一种考虑：人们认为在大陆以外买到的东西，质量更好，买到假货或掺假产品的可能性更小。在一个受食物和药品掺假丑闻困扰的国家里，这是一个很重要的考虑。
‘‘I like to buy face masks and cosmetics here to avoid fakes,’’ said Luo Yuning, a high-school student who was visiting from Shenzhen in the past week. ‘‘My parents like to shop at the pharmacies here and buy medicines that are neither made in China nor fake.’’
“我喜欢来这里买面膜和化妆品，免得碰到假货，”上周从深圳来到香港的高中生罗宇宁（音译）说。“爸妈喜欢逛药店，买一些不是国内生产的真药。”
The sheer speed and scale of the influx has created problems. Hong Kong, with a population of just 7.1 million and an area about one-fortieth the size of Switzerland, is overwhelmed by the visitors, despite its modern infrastructure and the many malls and hotels that have sprung up to cater to them.
人潮涌入香港的极快速度和巨大规模已经带来了问题。香港人口仅710万，面积约为瑞士的四十分之一。尽管有着现代化的基础设施，并且兴建了大量的商场和酒店来招待游客，这座城市仍是疲于应付。
Michael Wu Siu-ieng, the chairman of the Travel Industry Council in Hong Kong recently suggested that more shopping malls be built near the border with China and along railway lines to ease the strain on increasingly congested existing shopping hubs.
香港旅游业议会主席胡兆英(Michael Wu Siu-ieng)最近提出，在与大陆的边界线附近及港铁沿线修建更多的商场，以缓解日渐拥挤的现有购物中心的压力。
Occasional spats have erupted over mainland visitors’ perceived loutishness. Shortages of some brands of milk powder, caused in part by their popularity with Chinese shoppers, generated considerable public angst among Hong Kong parents last year.
由于大陆游客被认为举止粗鲁，偶尔会爆发对抗事件。而且，在一定程度上因为大陆购物者的追捧，一些品牌的奶粉脱销，导致香港父母去年公开表达了不小的怒火。
And the visitor influx is a big reason that retail rents and property prices in the city are among the highest in the world, making life hard for many small businesses, said Marcella Chow, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)的经济师马塞拉·周(Marcella Chow)表示，大量涌入的游客也是香港零售业租金与地产价格位居世界前列的一大原因，导致许多小本生意举步维艰。
At the same, time, however, the visitors — and their cash — play a major role in Hong Kong’s economy and jobs market, and helped it weather the economic turmoil of the past years.
不过，与此同时，游客及他们带来的钞票对香港经济与就业市场发挥了重要作用，帮助香港安然度过这几年的经济动荡。
The average amount spent by each mainland visitor has declined in recent years. But this is partly because wealthier Chinese increasingly travel to Paris or Milan to do their high-end shopping, and partly because visitors now no longer come predominantly from China’s largest and wealthiest cities. Still, with overall visitor numbers still on the rise — CLSA expects more than 58 million by 2020 — the influx remains a key pillar of the Hong Kong economy, Ms. Chow said.
每名大陆游客的平均花销近年来呈下降趋势。这一方面是由于更为富裕的大陆人越来越多地前往巴黎或米兰购买高档货，另一方面是因为到香港的游客不再主要来自中国最大、最富裕的城市。虽说如此，游客总人数仍呈上升态势——里昂证券预计，到2020年将超过5800万——因此，马塞拉·周认为，他们仍将是香港经济的中流砥柱。
Destinations in other parts of the world have taken note, and are hoping to get a slice of the Chinese tourism action. The flows, analysts and executives believe, mean big opportunities for airlines, hotels, entertainment venues and retailers from Paris to Milan, and New York to Las Vegas.
世界各地的旅游目的地已注意到这一点，希望能从中国游客身上分一杯羹。分析人士及行业高管认为，这样的人潮意味着巨大的商机，不仅是对航空公司、酒店和娱乐场所而言，还包括从巴黎到米兰、从纽约到拉斯维加斯的零售商。
‘‘Historically, mainland Chinese have traveled solely to shop close to home in Korea and Hong Kong,’’ Mr. Fischer, the CLSA analyst, said. In the future, however, ‘‘they will want to explore new frontiers, and do more things, when they travel abroad — that’s the story for the coming years.’’
“过去，大陆人只去离本土近的韩国和香港购物，”里昂证劵的分析师费希尔说。可在未来，“他们出境旅行的时候，将会希望探索新领域，尝试新事物——这就是未来几年的主题。”
And it means that Ms. Chen, the sports teacher from Shanghai, could be the typical Chinese traveler of the future.
这意味着，上海的体育老师陈女士或许就是未来的典型中国游客。
‘‘I traveled to Cambodia once, with my dad,’’ Ms. Chen said at the end of a day’s shopping in central Hong Kong on Thursday. ‘‘But if I had the choice, my first destination would be Australia. And then I would probably visit Africa, for the gorgeous beaches.’’
“我去过一次柬埔寨，和爸爸一起，”周四在香港市中心花了一整天逛街后，她说。“如果自由选择的话，我的首选是澳大利亚。然后大概会去非洲，去看看那里美丽无比的海滩。”