Moscow’s most popular joke today is unfunny: “Next year Putin, the ruble, and a barrel of oil will converge at just over 63.” Allow me to translate: The ruble will soon be trading at 63 to the dollar, or nearly double what the dollar was worth in Russia a year ago (meaning most Russians will be roughly 50 percent poorer); a barrel of oil will fall to $63 a barrel, roughly 2005-level prices, devastating the Russian economy; and President Vladimir Putin will turn 63. All three predictions are depressingly realistic: The Russian economy appears headed for disaster just as certainly as Mr. Putin will most likely celebrate his next birthday in October 2015. And more likely than not, he will still be president of Russia then.
莫斯科现在最流行的笑话一点也不好笑：“明年，普京、卢布和石油的价格将在刚刚超过63的地方汇合。”请允许我来翻译一下：俄罗斯货币很快就会贬到63卢布兑1美元的水平，几乎是一年前美元能兑换到的卢布金额的两倍（这意味着大多数俄罗斯人的财富将减少一半左右）；石油的价格将下降到每桶63美元，与2005年的水平相当，会对俄罗斯经济造成毁灭性打击；此外，总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)将步入63岁。这三项预测都真实得令人沮丧：俄罗斯经济眼看着正在走向灾难，这一点的确定程度就如同普京会在2015年10月庆祝他的下一个生日一样。而且，他那时十有八九还会继续担任俄罗斯总统。
Conventional wisdom — or conventional hope — among many of the people who would like to see the end of the Putin regime has long been that a turn for the worse in the Russian economy will make the moneyed elite turn on the Russian president. Journalists, pundits and Mr. Putin’s political opponents in Russia have predicted that Western sanctions and the economic disaster they hasten will result in a coup d'état staged by oligarchs. There is just one problem with that argument: There are no oligarchs anymore.
长期以来，许多想看到普京政权走向终结的人一直认为——或者说是一直希望——俄罗斯经济的恶化将会使那些富有的上层阶级突然背弃这位总统。俄罗斯的新闻工作者、专家学者，以及普京的政治对手都在预测，西方的制裁及其激化的经济灾难将促使俄罗斯寡头发动一场政变。这种观点只存在一个漏洞：俄罗斯已经没有寡头了。
When Mr. Putin became acting president 15 years ago this month, Russia was an oligarchy — indeed the oligarchs, a small group of men who had grown very rich in the preceding decade, were instrumental in picking Putin out of obscurity and installing him at the helm. But within months, he made the oligarchs an offer they could not refuse: give up all of their political power and some of their wealth in exchange for safety, security and continued prosperity, or else be stripped of all power and assets.
15年前的这个月，普京成了代总统，而当时的俄罗斯是一个寡头社会——确实是由一小群在之前十年中变得非常富有的寡头，帮助挑选出了当时默默无闻的普京，让他成为这个国家的掌舵人。但时间没过去几个月，普京就向寡头们提出了一个他们无法拒绝的选择：放弃所有的政治权力和部分财富，换取安全、保障和继续富裕，否则就会被剥夺一切的权力和资产。
He meant it. The media mogul Vladimir Gusinsky, who rejected the new rules, was forced into exile in the summer of 2000, and uber-oligarch Boris Berezovsky followed him a few months later. When the richest man in Russia, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, refused any such bargain, he was jailed and his company was taken away. The process of destroying the Russian oligarchy was completed.
他是动真格的。传媒大亨弗拉基米尔·古辛斯基(Vladimir Gusinsky)拒绝了这套新游戏规则，在2000年的夏天被迫流亡。超级寡头鲍里斯·别列佐夫斯基(Boris Berezovsky)几个月后步了他的后尘。俄罗斯首富米哈伊尔·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail Khodorkovsky)拒绝了任何这样的交易，结果遭到监禁，公司也被夺走。摧毁俄罗斯寡头的过程就这样完成了。
In the 11 years since Mr. Khodorkovsky’s arrest, Mr. Putin has consolidated power into what the political scientist Karen Dawisha calls “kleptocratic authoritarianism.” Its essential characteristic is all-encompassing corruption, which makes all the moneyed men of the Russian elite — and they are all men, and all moneyed — profoundly interdependent. Many of them have held public office during this time, but it has invariably been subject to three interlocking conditions: They had to pay to get into office, and though they could use the office for accumulating greater wealth, they could not use it to wield or gain political power.
霍多尔科夫斯基被捕后的这11年里，普京继续巩固权力，达到了政治学者凯伦·达维沙(Karen Dawisha)所称的“盗贼威权主义”的地步。其本质特征是无所不包的腐败，它让俄罗斯的上层富翁——全都是男人，全都有钱——形成了深层的相互依存关系。他们中很多人在此期间担任了公职，但总是离不开三个环环相扣的条件：他们必须花钱买官；他们可以利用公职来积累更多的财富；尽管如此，他们不能用它来行使或掌握政治权力。
Giving up any pretense of independent political action has remained a condition for staying wealthy and safe. When the billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov tried, and rather modestly, to test this condition by reshaping an essentially pro-Kremlin but populist political party three years ago, he was yanked back harshly. Faced with the threat of losing his assets, he then fell back into line. In the new era of economic hardship, he has stayed in line: In his most recent demonstration of loyalty to the Kremlin, a media company Prokhorov owns has just kicked the tiny, embattled independent television company Dozhd (Rain) TV out of a temporary studio on its property.
放弃采取独立政治行动的一切借口，成了维持自身富裕和安全的一个永恒的前提。亿万富翁米哈伊尔·普罗霍罗夫(Mikhail Prokhorov)三年前做过一次相当恭顺的尝试，想要重组一个基本上亲克里姆林宫、但却主张民粹主义的政党，结果他碰得头破血流。面对失去财产的威胁，他缩了回去。在经济最近陷入困境的情况下，他俯首贴耳：普罗霍罗夫表现出忠于克里姆林宫的最近一个例子，是他拥有的一家媒体企业，刚刚把举步维艰的小型独立电视公司Dozhd TV（雨电视）从旗下的一个临时工作室赶了出去。
Over these years of helping Mr. Putin solidify his regime, the Russian rich have not only become entrenched in this corrupt system, but they have lost the very ability to form and pursue a political agenda. Those who predict an imminent coup — a coup by oligarchs as independent actors who can form a coalition to pursue their economic interests — are far off the mark. Imagine, rather, a large number of spiders all living in a single web. As the economy takes a dive, they are compelled simply to hold on for dear life. As the web begins to shrink, they can kick off it some of their weaker comrades — as has already happened with two major Russian entrepreneurs, Vladimir Yevtushenkov and Maxim Nogotkov, whose companies were taken away from them by men richer and more powerful than they. Meanwhile, Mr. Putin, who still sits in the middle of the intricate system he has woven over the course of 15 years, faces no such risk.
这些年来帮助普京巩固政权的俄罗斯富豪们，不仅盘踞在这个腐败的体制中，而且已经丧失了制定和谋求政治议程的能力。有些人预测即将发生政变——寡头们结成谋求自身经济利益的联盟，作为一支独立的力量发动政变——这种预测非常离谱。想象一下一大群蜘蛛生活在同一张蛛网上的情形。随着经济形势急转直下，他们不得不抓牢蛛网来保住小命。当蛛网开始萎缩时，他们就踢走一些实力较弱的同志——这种状况已经发生在了两个知名俄罗斯企业家身上。弗拉基米尔·叶夫图申科夫(Vladimir Yevtushenkov)和马克西姆·诺戈科夫(Maxim Nogotkov)的公司被更富有、更强大的男人夺走了。与此同时，普京仍然坐镇这个他已经编制了15年之久的复杂系统，完全超脱于这样的风险。