HAVANA — In the splendid neighborhoods of this dilapidated city, old mansions are being upgraded with imported tile. Businessmen go out for sushi and drive home in plush Audis. Now, hoping to keep up, the government is erecting something special for its own: a housing development called Project Granma, featuring hundreds of comfortable apartments in a gated complex set to have its own movie theater and schools.
哈瓦那——在这座破败城市里光鲜亮丽的社区中，老宅子被升级贴上了进口瓷砖。商人们外出享用寿司，开着豪华的奥迪车(Audi)回家。现在，为了跟上发展，政府正在给自己人打造特别的福利，这是一项名为“格拉玛”(Granma)的住房开发项目，该项目将建造一片门禁森严的建筑群，内有数百套舒适的公寓，并计划建设附属的影院和学校。
“Twenty years ago, what we earned was a good salary,” said Roberto Rodriguez, 51, a longtime Interior Ministry official among the first to move in. “But the world has changed.”
长期在内政部任职的官员，51岁的罗伯托·罗德里格斯(Roberto Rodriguez)说，“20年前，我们挣的工资还算不错。可是世界已经变了。”他是第一批搬入公寓的住户之一。
Cuba is in transition. The economic reforms of the past few years have rattled the established order of class and status, enabling Cubans with small businesses or access to foreign capital to rise above many dutiful Communists. As these new paths to prestige expand, challenging the old system of rewards for obedience, President Raúl Castro is redoubling efforts to elevate the faithful and maintain their loyalty — now and after the Castros are gone.
古巴正处于转型之中。过去几年的经济改革，打乱了既有的阶级和身份秩序，于是那些做小生意的，或者能获得外资的古巴人，地位超越了许多尽职的共产党员。这些追逐名望的新途径不断拓宽，对奖励顺从者的旧体制构成了挑战，有鉴于此，古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)正在加倍努力地提升忠诚党员的地位，维系他们在当下，以及在卡斯特罗兄弟离世后的忠心。
Project Granma and similar “military cities” around the country are Caribbean-colored edifices of reassurance, set aside for the most ardent defenders of Cuba’s 1959 revolution: families tied to the military and the interior ministry. With their balconies, air conditioning and fresh paint, the new apartments are the government’s most public gifts to its middle ranks and a clear sign of Cuba’s new hybrid economy, in which the state must sometimes compete with private enterprise.
古巴各地的格拉玛项目和“军人之城”，是为了安抚部下而建设的充满加勒比色彩的大楼，专门留给1959年古巴革命最热切的捍卫者，也就是与军方和内政部关系密切的家庭。这些新近建造粉刷的公寓带有阳台和空调，是政府给中层军官发放的最公开的礼物，它们也是古巴新的混合经济体制的清晰标志，在这种体制下，国家必须不时地和私营企业展开竞争。
The housing is just one example of the military’s expansive role in Mr. Castro’s plan for Cuba, and it illustrates a central conflict in his attempts to open up the economy without dismantling the power structure he and his comrades have been building for more than five decades.
这个住房项目只是一个例子，它表明了在卡斯特罗为古巴制定的规划中，军方扮演着广泛的角色。它也鲜明地表现出，卡斯特罗试图开放经济，但又不想让权力架构瓦解的核心矛盾——为了建造这个权力机构，他和他的同志们一直奋斗了五十多年。
In the short term, analysts and former officers say, he is relying on the military to push through his changes and maintain stability as he experiments with economic liberalization. Yet his abiding dedication — Mr. Castro is a lifelong soldier who was defense minister for 49 years — threatens to further entrench an institution that has often undermined changes that challenge its favored status.
分析人士和前军官表示，在短期内，卡斯特罗进行经济自由化的试验时，要依靠军方来推行改革并维护稳定。然而，劳尔·卡斯特罗一生从军，担任国防部长长达49年，他对军队毕生的奉献恐怕会进一步巩固军方的地位。过去，军方就常常会对那些可能会挑战其特权地位的变革大加阻挠。
“Raúl knows the military answer is not the answer, but he also knows that at this time he absolutely needs military loyalty,” said Hal Klepak, a Canadian scholar who closely tracks the Cuban military. “They are the only ones who will follow him if the reform succeeds, or if it fails.”
“劳尔知道，依赖军队不是他要的答案，不过他也知道，在这个时刻，他绝对需要军方的效忠。无论改革是成功还是失败，只有他们会一直追随他。”密切关注古巴军方的加拿大学者哈尔·克列帕克(Hal Klepak)说。
Fidel and Raúl Castro, given their guerrilla history, have always turned to the military in times of need. In the 1960s and early ’70s, as Cuba’s professional class fled, officers in fatigues ran government ministries and nationalized industries. Since the 1990s, after the fall of the Soviet Union, the armed forces have been slashed to around 55,000, from a peak of more than 200,000, but they have also been pushed further into the Cuban economy.
菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)和劳尔·卡斯特罗曾长期领导游击队，鉴于这段历史，他们在有需要时，总是会向军队求援。上世纪60年代和70年代初，由于古巴的专业人士阶层纷纷外逃，军人们执掌了政府各部门，把持了国有化的工业企业。上世纪90年代苏联解体之后，古巴武装部队的规模已经从高峰时的超过20万人，削减到了5.5万人。不过，军队对经济的参与也受到进一步的推动。
As president, Raúl Castro, 82, has accelerated the growth of what some scholars have described as a military oligarchy. The chairman of the Economic Policy Commission, Marino Murillo, is a former officer. Cuba’s largest state conglomerate, Cimex, which processes roughly $1 billion in remittances from Cubans abroad, among other tasks, is run by Col. Héctor Oroza Busutin. Raúl Castro’s son-in-law, Gen. Luis Alberto Rodríguez, is the top executive at the military’s holding company, known as Gaesa, which is estimated to control 20 percent to 40 percent of the Cuban economy.
作为古巴总统，82岁的劳尔·卡斯特罗加速了一些学者所说的“军事寡头”的发展。经济政策委员会(Economic Policy Commission)主席马里诺·穆里洛(Marino Murillo)曾是一名军官。古巴规模最大的国有企业集团Cimex由埃克托尔·奥罗萨·布苏廷上校(Héctor Oroza Busutin)执掌，海外古巴人汇回古巴大约10亿美元（约合60亿元人民币）资金由该集团处理，此外Cimex还有其他业务。劳尔·卡斯特罗的女婿路易斯·阿尔贝托·罗德里格斯上将(Luis Alberto Rodríguez)在隶属军方的控股公司Gaesa担任高管。据估计，该公司控制着古巴经济的20%到40%。
And its role is expanding. In 2011, a financial arm of the company bought out the 27 percent stake held by Telecom Italia in Cuba’s telecommunications company for $706 million. Gaesa also has a network of hundreds of retail stores selling food to appliances. It is a growing force in tourism, too, controlling fleets of luxury buses, a small airline and an expanding list of hotels. And one of its subsidiaries is overseeing the free trade zone built alongside Cuba’s largest infrastructure project in decades — the new container port in Mariel.
而且它的影响力还在增强。2011年，该公司的一个金融部门以7.06亿美元的价格，买下了意大利电信集团(Telecom Italia)所持有的古巴电信公司27%的股份。Gaesa还拥有一个由数百家零售店组成的集团，出售从食品到电器的各种商品。它对旅游业的影响力也在逐渐加强，控制着许多豪华大巴车队、一个小型航空公司和越来越多的酒店。该公司旗下的一家子公司现在还负责着一个自由贸易区，这个自贸区建在马里埃尔的一个新货柜港附近，后者是古巴几十年来规模最大的基建项目。
The military’s interests bestow the privileges of business on a chosen few, especially senior military officials.
军方的利益使得极少数的一群人获得了商业特权，尤其是那些高级军官。
“They live better than almost anyone in Cuba,” said Brian Latell, a former C.I.A. officer who worked in Cuba.
“他们的生活几乎比任何古巴人都要好，”曾在古巴工作的前中情局(CIA)人员布赖恩·拉泰尔(Brian Latell)说。
But in the lower and middle ranks, experts say, esteem and relative wealth have eroded. Career officers in Cuba are now more likely to have friends or relatives who live abroad, or who visit Miami and often return with iPhones or new clothes unavailable at the state’s musty stores.
专家说，但是在中低层，他们的声望和相对较多的财富都已受到了侵蚀。目前，古巴的职业军人往往拥有居住在海外，或者可以拜访迈阿密的朋友或亲属，他们回来的时候经常会带着在古巴冷清的商店里无法买到的iPhone或新衣服。
Meanwhile, military members must report all remittances they receive and they are not allowed any “unauthorized contact” with foreigners or Cubans living abroad — limiting access to the money that other Cubans use not just for purchases, but also to improve their homes and open small businesses.
然而，军人必须上报他们收到的所有汇款，而且不许“在未经许可的情况下接触”外国人或生活在国外的古巴人。这就限制了他们接触普通古巴人不仅用来购物，而且还用来改善居住条件和做小生意用的资金。
“It’s producing an exodus of talented people from the state to the private sector,” said Jorge Dámaso, 75, a retired colonel who writes a blog often critical of the government. “Most people in the military have seen their quality of life fall compared to a bartender or someone who has a small business. They can see that they are at a disadvantage.”
“这正在促使大量的人才从国有部门流向私有部门，”75岁的退休上校豪尔赫·达马索(Jorge Dámaso)说。他经常在博客中批判政府。“与酒保或做小生意的人相比，军队中的大多数人都发现自己的生活质量出现下降。他们能意识到自己处于劣势。”
The new housing, a basic necessity in extremely short supply across the island, looks to many Cubans like another attempt at favoritism. According to government figures, the military’s construction budget has more than doubled since 2010. When combined with the interior ministry (often described as a branch of the military), the combined armed forces are now Cuba’s second-largest construction entity.
新建的住房在整个国家都十分短缺，许多古巴人认为这也是进行偏袒的另一次尝试。根据政府提供的数据，自2010年以来，军队的建筑预算已经增加了一倍多。内政部常常被形容为军队的一个分支，如果将内政部考虑在内，整个武装部队目前是古巴第二大的建筑实体。
Project Granma is one of several new military housing developments around the country. Its equivalent in Santiago de Cuba, where the Castro revolution began, has come under fire from Cubans struggling in rickety homes damaged by Hurricane Sandy. But as an attempt to match the private sector, or life in other countries, it is perhaps no accident that the project’s colors and architecture give it the feel of a Florida condo complex.
格拉玛是古巴几个新的军队住房开发项目之一。在卡斯特罗革命开始的地方圣地亚哥-德古巴，许多古巴民众还在被飓风“桑迪”(Sandy)损坏，现在摇摇欲坠的房屋中挣扎度日，他们对那里类似格拉玛的项目发起了猛烈的批评。但是由于想要媲美私营部门或其他国家的生活，这个项目的色调和建筑风格看起来有些像佛罗里达州的公寓大楼，也就不足为奇了。
But in the push and pull that has defined Cuba’s economic policies over the last two years, the government has often struggled with when to let the market function and when to protect the Communist establishment. The Cuban authorities, for example, recently embarked on a crackdown of private vendors selling clothes and other items, an enforcement campaign widely seen as an effort to help the state’s own retail network.
然而过去两年，一种博弈贯穿了古巴的经济政策：在整个过程中，政府往往不知道何时该让市场发挥作用，何时又该保护共产主义体制。例如，古巴官员近来开展了一项行动，打击销售服装和其他物品的小摊主，人们广泛认为，这场执法运动是为了对政府自己的零售网络有所帮助。
Mr. Dámaso, who spent 32 years in the military, said that the country’s leaders, while longing for economic improvement, mainly want to preserve the Cuba they know.
在军队待过32年的达马索说，虽然古巴领导人希望改善经济状况，但同时又很希望能守护他们心目中的那个古巴。
“If you have a business run by military officers, when there’s a transition, you’re not going to get rid of all these people,” he said. “This is a way to maintain a space for established powers in a future Cuban society.”
“如果你手里有一桩由军人经营的买卖，当转型开始时，你才不会赶走那批人呢，”他说。“这样做是为了在未来的古巴社会中，为地位稳固的势力集团保留一席之地。”