Have we reached peak economist?
我们已经迎来了经济学家的巅峰时期了吗？
Two hundred years ago, the field of economics barely existed. Today, it is arguably the queen of the social sciences.
两百年前，经济学这个领域几乎不存在。如今，它可以被算作是社会科学中的女王。
These are the conclusions I draw from a deep dive into The New York Times archives first suggested to me by a Twitter follower. While the idea of measuring influence through newspaper mentions will elicit howls of protest from tweed-clad boffins sprawled across faculty lounges around the country, the results are fascinating. And not only because they fit my preconceived biases.
在一位Twitter上的关注者向我建议之后，我通过深度研究《纽约时报》的历史存档得出了以上结论。尽管这种研究方法肯定会被全国各地教师休息室里那些衣着古板的科研工作者们大肆批驳，但通过从报纸上被提及次数来衡量学科影响力，该研究得出了令人着迷的结果。这么说不止是因为它们验证了我先前就笃信的偏见。
Using the new Chronicle tool that catalogs the entire Times archive, I discovered that in recent years around one in 100 articles mention the term “economist,” and these typically occur in the context of introducing a proponent of the dark arts. Far fewer articles mention the terms historian or psychologist, while sociologists, anthropologists and demographers rarely rate a mention.
通过新的、包含了时报全部存档的工具Chronicle，我发现近年来，几乎每一百篇文章中就会有一篇提到“经济学家”这个名词，而在介绍一名玄妙理论的支持者时它最常出现。相比之下只有很少的文章会提到历史学家或心理学家这两个名词，而社会学家、人类学家、人口学家就更不值一提了。
It wasn’t always this way. Historians held the largest market share until the Great Depression intervened in the 1930s, leading a frightened public to take a greater interest in economics.
但过去并不总是这样的。历史学家此前一直占有最大的市场份额，但上世纪30年代的大萧条改变了这一点，它让惊恐的公众对经济学产生了更大兴趣。
There’s an old Bob Dylan song that goes “there’s no success like failure,” and it’s a lesson that’s been central to the rise of the economics profession. Each economic calamity since the Great Depression — stagflation in the 1970s, the double-dip recession in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the 1991 downturn — has served to boost the stock of economists. The long Clinton boom that pushed unemployment down to 3.8 percent was good news for nearly all Americans, except economists, who saw their prominence plummet. Fortunately, the last financial crisis fixed that.
有一首鲍勃·迪伦的老歌是这么唱的，“再没有像失败一样的成功了”(there's no success like failure)，而这句歌词就是经济学这个行业崛起的关键一课。自大萧条以来每一场经济灾难——70年代的滞涨、70年代末、80年代初的二次探底、1991 年的衰退——都让经济学家的分量与日倍增。 而克林顿时代把失业率压低到3.8%的长期繁荣对于绝大多数美国人都是好消息，但经济学家却不在其列，他们地位急剧下降。幸运的是，上一个金融危机改变了这点。
Today, the profession is so ubiquitous that if you are running a government agency, a think tank, a media outlet or a major corporation, and don’t have your own pet economist on the payroll, you’re the exception.
当下这个这职业是如此的普遍，以至于如果你在管理一个政府机构、智库、媒体，或是大公司，要是还没养着几个经济学家，你就真是例外了。
But it’s not just economists who are thriving. Over the past 50 years, the pages of The Times have come to reflect an increasing fascination with the social sciences generally, and mentions of historians, psychologists and, to a lesser extent, sociologists have also risen. As social sciences have grown in importance, other sources of authority have lost market share. Priests were once more likely to be discussed in the pages of The Times than any of these social science celebrants, but today they are found far less often than either economists or historians, roughly on par with psychologists.
但不仅仅是经济学家们的日子一天比一天好过。过去五十年里，时报的内容反映出，总的来说人们对社会科学越来越关注。提及历史学家、心理学家的次数，以及更少的，提及社会学家的次数都有所增加。随着社会科学重要性越来越高，其他领域的专家则失去了他们的市场份额。过去在时报的页面中，与其他社会科学颂扬者相比，颂扬神祗的牧师更有可能会被提到。但是在今天，牧师出现的频率远低于经济学家或是历史学家，差不多和心理学家一样。
These rankings reflect something broader than just the tastes of one newspaper’s editors, as the pecking order among the social sciences at The Times roughly mirrors that on Capitol Hill. A similar search of the Congressional Record over the past 25 years reveals that the term “economist” was most likely to be mentioned, with historians and psychologists again the next most popular.
这些排名反映的不仅是一份报纸编辑们的品味，因为时报对社会科学的偏好顺序同样反映了美国国会的偏好。在过去二十五年的国会纪录里做一个类似的搜索，就会发现经济学家这个名词出现频率最高，历史学家与心理学家次之。
Most striking is the poor showing of sociology, whose relevance to policy makers appears to be minimal, even though it focuses on many of our most pressing problems, including families, crime, education, aging, religion, community, inequality and poverty.
最引人注目的是社会学的不佳表现——它对于政策制定者的相关性非常小，尽管它关注了很多我们最紧迫的问题，包括家庭、犯罪、教育、老龄化、宗教、社区、不平等和贫穷。
Of course, sociologists, whose comparative advantage is in offering structural explanations, might point to the fact that their field has no equivalent of the business pages, that the president does not receive advice from a Council of Sociological Advisers, and that there’s little demand from Wall Street for sociological insights. Perhaps, although topics like crime, family and faith are grist for the daily newspapers; an array of federal agencies are responsible for dealing with topics like housing, education, labor and human services; and Silicon Valley is hungry for insights from sociologists who study networks.
当然了，擅长提供结构性解释的社会学家们可能会指出，他们的领域和商业报道不同，总统也没有从社会学家委员会听取建议，而且华尔街也不怎么需要社会学的洞察。尽管像犯罪、家庭和信仰这样的话题对于日报来说也许是有用的材料；但大批的联邦机构负责的却都是处理像住房、教育、劳工、社会工作这样的问题；而且硅谷就十分需要研究网络的社会学家的洞察。
More tellingly, as Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard, recently noted, sociology has limited impact even on issues central to the discipline. The most striking example he offered was that it appears that no sociologists were consulted in the deliberations surrounding President Obama’s “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative to combat the problems afflicting black youth, even as the insights of economists were sought.
更能说明问题的是，哈佛社会学教授奥兰多·帕特森(Orlando Patterson)指出，哪怕是社会学关注的核心问题，这门学科的影响力都十分有限。他给出的一个最惊人的例子是，关于奥巴马总统倡议的、旨在应对黑人青年被折磨问题的“同胞守护者”(My Brother’s Keeper)项目，在商议时完全没有征求社会学家意见，而这里面连经济学家的意见都被参考了。
Economists might instead look to the forces of supply and demand to understand their relative popularity. But it is not due to supply. As data from the Census Bureau suggests, while about 1.5 million Americans are economics majors, there is a far greater supply of psychology majors (3.4 million) and history majors (1.6 million), and only slightly fewer sociology majors (1.3 million).
不同的是，经济学家们可能会通过供求关系来了解他们的流行程度。但这其实和供给多少经济学家无关。美国人口普查局的数据表明，尽管有150万美国人是经济学专业，但学心理学（340万）和历史学（160万）的人却多得多，而学社会学的人（130万）也只是少了一点。