WASHINGTON — Inflation is widely reviled as a kind of tax on modern life, but as Federal Reserve policy makers prepare to meet this week, there is growing concern inside and outside the Fed that inflation is not rising fast enough.
华盛顿——人们普遍认为，通货膨胀是现代生活的一种沉重赋税，但是在美联储(Federal Reserve)政策制定者准备在本周举行会议的时候，美联储内外却都有越来越多的人担心，通胀上行得还不够快。
Some economists say more inflation is just what the American economy needs to escape from a half-decade of sluggish growth and high unemployment.
一些经济学家表示，美国经济恰恰需要更高的通胀率，来结束持续五年的迟缓增长和高失业率。
The Fed has worked for decades to suppress inflation, but economists, including Janet Yellen, President Obama’s nominee to lead the Fed starting next year, have long argued that a little inflation is particularly valuable when the economy is weak. Rising prices help companies increase profits; rising wages help borrowers repay debts. Inflation also encourages people and businesses to borrow money and spend it more quickly.
几十年来，美联储一直努力抑制通胀，但是包括经奥巴马总统提名于明年起担任美联储主席的珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)在内的一些经济学家却一直认为，在经济疲软的形势下，适度的通胀尤为可贵。物价上涨将帮助企业提高利润；而工资上涨有助于借贷者偿还债务。通胀还会鼓励个人和企业以更快的速度贷款、花钱。
The school board in Anchorage, Alaska, for example, is counting on inflation to keep a lid on teachers’ wages. Retailers including Costco and Walmart are hoping for higher inflation to increase profits. The federal government expects inflation to ease the burden of its debts. Yet by one measure, inflation rose at an annual pace of 1.2 percent in August, just above the lowest pace on record.
例如，阿拉斯加安克雷奇的校董事会正指望着依靠通胀来帮助控制住高涨的教师工资。好市多(Costco)和沃尔玛(Walmart)这样的零售商也希望，通胀抬头能提升它们的利润。联邦政府期待着通胀会帮助它减轻债务负担。然而一项计算显示，美国的年化通胀率在8月为1.2%，只略高于美国有史以来最低的通胀水平。
“Weighed against the political, social and economic risks of continued slow growth after a once-in-a-century financial crisis, a sustained burst of moderate inflation is not something to worry about,” Kenneth S. Rogoff, a Harvard economist, wrote recently. “It should be embraced.”
哈佛大学(Harvard)经济学家肯尼斯·S·罗格夫(Kenneth S. Rogoff)最近写道，“相比这场百年一遇的金融危机过后，持续低速增长所带来的政治、社会和经济风险，稳定的适度通胀根本不值得我们担心。我们应该欢迎它。”
The Fed, in a break from its historic focus on suppressing inflation, has tried since the financial crisis to keep prices rising about 2 percent a year. Some Fed officials cite the slower pace of inflation as a reason, alongside reducing unemployment, to continue the central bank’s stimulus campaign.
美联储也一改其历来对抑制通胀的关注，在金融危机以来一直努力将年度物价上涨维持在2%左右。一些美联储官员认为，由于通胀水平较低，而且需要降低失业，所以应当继续执行经济刺激计划。
Critics, including Professor Rogoff, say the Fed is being much too meek. He says that inflation should be pushed as high as 6 percent a year for a few years, a rate not seen since the early 1980s. And he compared the Fed’s caution to not swinging hard enough at a golf ball in a sand trap. “You need to hit it more firmly to get it up onto the grass,” he said. “As long as you’re in the sand trap, tapping it around is not enough.”
包括罗格夫教授在内的批评人士表示，美联储过于保守。他说，美联储应将年通胀水平推高至6%，并保持数年，而这样的通胀率在20世纪80年代初过后，就再也没有出现过了。他把美联储的小心翼翼，比作在高尔夫球落入沙坑时还不肯用力挥杆。“需要用更大的力气，才能把它重新送回草地上，”他说，“只要还在沙地里，轻轻地推就是不够的。”
All this talk has prompted dismay among economists who see little benefit in inflation, and who warn that the Fed could lose control of prices as the economy recovers. As inflation accelerates, economists agree that any benefits can be quickly outstripped by the disruptive consequences of people rushing to spend money as soon as possible. Rising inflation also punishes people living on fixed incomes, and it discourages lending and long-term investments, imposing an enduring restraint on economic growth even if the inflation subsides.
所有这些说法都让另一些经济学家们沮丧，他们不觉得通胀有什么益处，还警告说，随着经济开始复苏，美联储可能会失去对物价的控制。经济学家们同意，随着通胀加速，人们会迫不及待地花钱，这种行为的破坏性后果会迅速盖过通胀带来的任何好处。通胀加剧也会影响收入固定的人群，还会打击放贷和长期投资，即使通胀水平回落，仍然会持续制约经济增长。
“The spectacle of American central bankers trying to press the inflation rate higher in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis is virtually without precedent,” Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, wrote in a new book, “The Map and the Territory.” He said the effort could end in double-digit inflation.
“在2008年金融危机过后，美国央行官员如此努力推高通胀率，这样的情形真是史无前例的，”美联储前主席艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)在他的新书《地图与疆域》(The Map and the Territory)中写道。他说，这种努力可能会导致两位数的通胀。
The current generation of policy makers came of age in the 1970s, when a higher tolerance for inflation did not deliver the promised benefits. Instead, Western economies fell into “stagflation” — rising prices, little growth. 
当代的政策制定者是在20世纪70年代长大成人的。当时人们对高通胀的容忍，并没有换来预期的好处，反而让西方经济陷入了所谓的“滞胀”——物价上涨，但经济几乎没有增长。
Lately, however, the 1970s have seemed a less relevant cautionary tale than the fate of Japan, where prices have been in general decline since the late 1990s. Kariya, a popular instant dinner of curry in a pouch that cost 120 yen in 2000, can now be found for 68 yen, according to the blog Yen for Living.
然而，与日本的命运相比，美国20世纪70年代的警示，对当前似乎没有那么大的参考意义。自20世纪90年代末期以来，日本的物价一直呈总体下降趋势。Yen for Living博客写道，2000年，一袋咖喱屋(Kariya)速食咖喱价格为120日元（当时约合9.6元人民币），而现在价格只有68日元（约合4.3元人民币）。
This enduring deflation, which policy makers are now trying to end, kept the economy in retreat as people hesitated to make purchases, because prices were falling, or to borrow money, because the cost of repayment was rising. 
这种持续的通货紧缩导致经济节节后退——人们不愿消费，因为价格持续下降，借钱时也会犹豫不决，因为还款成本会不断提高。日本的政策制定者正在努力结束这种状态。
“Low inflation is not good for the economy because very low inflation increases the risks of deflation, which can cause an economy to stagnate,” the Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, a student of Japan’s deflation, said in July. “The evidence is that falling and low inflation can be very bad for an economy.”
“低通胀对经济增长无益，因为非常低的通胀水平加大了通货紧缩的风险，会使经济陷入停滞，”美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)在今年7月表示。“证据显示，通胀水平很低、并且不断下降，可能会给经济带来非常糟糕的影响。”伯克南从日本的通货紧缩中得到了教训。
There is evidence that low inflation is hurting the American economy.
有证据表明，低通胀正在损害美国经济。
“I’ve always said that a little inflation is good,” Richard A. Galanti, Costco’s chief financial officer, said in December 2008. He explained that the retailer is generally able to expand its profit margins and its sales when prices are rising. This month, Mr. Galanti told analysts that sluggish inflation was one reason the company had reported its slowest revenue growth since the recession.
好市多公司首席财务官理查德·A·加兰蒂(Richard A. Galanti)在2008年12月表示，“我一直都说，有少许通胀是有益的。”他解释道，物价上涨时，这家零售商的利润率和销售额通常都能够有所增加。本月，加兰蒂告诉分析人士，好市多营收增长之所以达到了经济衰退以来的最低速度，通胀水平过低是原因之一。
Executives at Walmart, Rent-A-Center and Spartan Stores, a Michigan grocery chain, have similarly bemoaned the lack of inflation in recent months.
最近几个月，沃尔玛、Rent-A-Center及密歇根州的零售连锁店Spartan Stores的高管们都对通胀水平过低表达过不满。
Many households also have reason to miss higher inflation. Historically, higher prices have led to higher wages, allowing borrowers to repay fixed debts like mortgage loans more easily. Over the five years before 2008, inflation raised prices 10 percent. Over the last five years, prices rose 8 percent. At the current pace, prices would rise 6 percent over the next five years.
很多家庭也有理由怀念通胀水平较高的时代。历史上，物价提高会促使工资上涨，借贷者也能更容易地偿还按揭贷款等固定债务。在2008年以前的五年时间里，通胀致使物价上涨了10%。在过去五年里，物价上涨了8%，按照目前的速度，物价在未来五年将会提高6%。
Inflation also helps workers find jobs, according. to an influential 1996 paper by the economist George Akerlof and two co-authors. Rising prices allows companies to increase profit margins quietly, by not raising wages, which in turn makes it profitable for companies to hire additional workers. Lower rates of inflation have the opposite effect, making it harder to find work.
根据经济学家乔治·A·阿克洛夫(George A. Akerlof)和两名合著者在1996年发表的一篇很有影响力的论文，通胀还能帮助工人找到工作。物价上涨时，公司可以通过不提高工资，来悄悄地提高利润率，这样企业雇佣更多工人也能维持盈利。较低的通胀率则会带来相反的作用，使找工作变得更难。
Companies could cut wages, of course. But there is ample evidence that even during economic downturns, companies are reluctant to do so. Federal data show a large spike since the recession in the share of workers reporting no change in wages, but a much smaller increase in workers reporting wage cuts, according to an analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. There is, in practice, an invisible wall preventing pay cuts. The standard explanation is that employers fear that workers will be angry and therefore less productive.
当然，公司也可以削减工资。但有充分证据证明，即便是在经济低迷时期，公司也不愿减薪。根据旧金山联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco)的一项分析，联邦数据显示，自经济衰退以来，声称自己的工资没有发生变化的就业者人数大幅增加；而称自己工资减少的就业者人数，增幅要小很多。实际上，有一堵无形的墙在阻止减薪。标准的解释是，雇主担心激怒工人，进而降低工作效率。
“I want to be really careful about advocating for lower wages because I typically advocate for the other side of that equation,” said Jared Bernstein, a fellow at the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “But I think higher inflation would help.”
“对于支持降薪，我希望保持谨慎态度，因为我通常会主张从等式的另一边入手，”左倾的预算与政策重点中心(Center for Budget and Policy Priorities)研究员、副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的前经济顾问杰瑞德·伯恩斯坦(Jared Bernstein)说，“但我觉得提高通胀水平会有所帮助。”