There don’t seem to be any major economic crises underway right this moment, and policy makers in many places are patting themselves on the back. In Europe, for example, they’re crowing about Spain’s recovery: the country seems set to grow at least twice as fast this year as previously forecast.
目前似乎没有重大经济危机正在发生的迹象，很多地方的决策者都为此而自我夸耀。比如，欧洲的决策者们正在因西班牙的经济复苏而沾沾自喜：该国今年的增长速度似乎会至少比先前的预测快两倍。
Unfortunately, that means growth of 1 percent, versus 0.5 percent, in a deeply depressed economy with 55 percent youth unemployment. The fact that this can be considered good news just goes to show how accustomed we’ve grown to terrible economic conditions. We’re doing worse than anyone could have imagined a few years ago, yet people seem increasingly to be accepting this miserable situation as the new normal.
不幸的是，这意味着西班牙经济增速是1%，而不是0.5%，该国的经济状况非常低迷，青年失业率高达55%。就连这也可以被当成是个好消息，只能说明我们已经对可怕的经济状况司空见惯。现在的状况之糟糕，已经超出了几年前每个人的想象，但大家似乎越来越接受这种悲惨局面，已经把它视为一种新常态。
How did this happen? There were multiple reasons, of course. But I’ve been thinking about this question a lot lately, in part because I’ve been asked to discuss a new assessment of Japan’s efforts to break out of its deflation trap. And I’d argue that an important source of failure was what I’ve taken to calling the timidity trap — the consistent tendency of policy makers who have the right ideas in principle to go for half-measures in practice, and the way this timidity ends up backfiring, politically and even economically.
这种事是怎么会发生的呢？当然，它的原因有很多。但是最近我对这个问题进行了大量思考，部分原因是有人让我对日本摆脱通货紧缩陷阱的举措进行一个新的评估。我认为，我所称为的“怯懦陷阱”是失败的一个重要原因，它既是指一些政策制定者某种贯彻始终的倾向：他们大体上拥有正确的思路，但在现实中却畏首畏尾；也是指这种怯懦最终在政治上、甚至在经济上导致的事与愿违。
In other words, Yeats had it right: the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.
换句话说，叶芝(Yeats)说得对：最优秀的人信心尽失，最糟糕的人却满心狂热。
About the worst: If you’ve been following economic debates these past few years, you know that both America and Europe have powerful pain caucuses — influential groups fiercely opposed to any policy that might put the unemployed back to work. There are some important differences between the U.S. and European pain caucuses, but both now have truly impressive track records of being always wrong, never in doubt.
关于“最糟糕的人”：如果在过去几年里，你对经济辩论有所关注，你就知道美国和欧洲都有势力强大的“痛苦党团”(pain caucuses)——这些党团极有影响力，强烈反对任何有可能让失业者重返工作岗位的政策。美国和欧洲的“痛苦党团”之间存在着重大差别，但它们都总是错误，又从不自我怀疑，其斑斑劣迹同样令人侧目。
Thus, in America, we have a faction both on Wall Street and in Congress that has spent five years and more issuing lurid warnings about runaway inflation and soaring interest rates. You might think that the failure of any of these dire predictions to come true would inspire some second thoughts, but, after all these years, the same people are still being invited to testify, and are still saying the same things.
在美国，华尔街和国会各有一批人，五年多来一直发布着耸人听闻的警告，说会出现通货膨胀失控和利率飙升。你可能会认为，既然这些可怕的预言一个都没有成真，人们可能就会重做考虑，但是这些年来，同样这一批人还在受邀作证，而他们也仍然在老调重弹。
Meanwhile, in Europe, four years have passed since the Continent turned to harsh austerity programs. The architects of these programs told us not to worry about adverse impacts on jobs and growth — the economic effects would be positive, because austerity would inspire confidence. Needless to say, the confidence fairy never appeared, and the economic and social price has been immense. But no matter: all the serious people say that the beatings must continue until morale improves.
与此同时，欧洲大陆采用严厉的紧缩计划已经四年了 。这些计划的设计者告诉我们不要担心它们对就业和经济增长的负面影响——它们对经济的影响会是积极的，因为紧缩政策会激发人们的信心。不用说，信心仙女从未出现过，而经济和社会却付出了高昂的代价。尽管如此，这些权威人士却说，紧缩必须继续，直到提振信心为止。
So what has been the response of the good guys?
那么，优秀的人有怎样的反应呢？
For there are good guys out there, people who haven’t bought into the notion that nothing can or should be done about mass unemployment. The Obama administration’s heart — or, at any rate, its economic model — is in the right place. The Federal Reserve has pushed back against the springtime-for-Weimar, inflation-is-coming crowd. The International Monetary Fund has put out research debunking claims that austerity is painless. But these good guys never seem willing to go all-in on their beliefs.
优秀的人的确有，他们不认为大规模失业的局面是无法挽救或者是不应该挽救的。奥巴马政府的核心——或者至少是经济模式——没有问题。美联储(Federal Reserve)顶住了那些声称魏玛之春、通货膨胀即将来临的人的压力。国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)公布了研究成果，驳斥通货紧缩无痛的说法。但是，这些优秀的人似乎从来不愿意将自己的信念坚持到底。
The classic example is the Obama stimulus, which was obviously underpowered given the economy’s dire straits. That’s not 20/20 hindsight. Some of us warned right from the beginning that the plan would be inadequate — and that because it was being oversold, the persistence of high unemployment would end up discrediting the whole idea of stimulus in the public mind. And so it proved.
最经典的一个案例就是奥巴马的刺激计划。由于当时糟糕的经济局面，这项计划的力度明显不够。这并非所谓的后见之明。我们当中有些人一开始就警告称这项计划可能力度不够——而且因为它被过度吹嘘，持续的高失业率可能最终会使公众对整个刺激计划失去信心。事实证明，果然如此。
What’s not as well known is that the Fed has, in its own way, done the same thing. From the start, monetary officials ruled out the kinds of monetary policies most likely to work — in particular, anything that might signal a willingness to tolerate somewhat higher inflation, at least temporarily. As a result, the policies they have followed have fallen short of hopes, and ended up leaving the impression that nothing much can be done.
人们不太了解的是，美联储其实已经以自己的方式做了同样的事情。从一开始，负责货币政策的官员就排除了最可能会发挥作用的货币政策——尤其是那些发出愿意容忍（至少临时容忍）较高通胀率的信号的政策。所以，他们实施的政策让人们失望，最后还给人留下了无所可为的印象。