MUMBAI, India — The Orbit Grand, a block-size complex designed to have at least 26 floors of elegant apartments, an extensive array of ground-floor stores and abundant parking for the chauffeured cars of residents and shoppers, was supposed to be a diadem of India’s real estate market.
印度孟买——星轨豪庭(Orbit Grand)是一个占据了一整个街区的建筑群，根据设计，这个建筑群内至少有26层是典雅的公寓，另外还包括大面积的底层商铺和绰绰有余的停车位，用以停放住户和购物者的那些有专属司机的汽车，堪为印度房地产市场的巅峰之作。
Now it is turning into a symbol of the slumping fortunes of property developers and owners in a once-promising emerging economy. Construction of the Orbit Grand has almost completely stalled at the 10th floor, the tower crane at the site seldom moves and the builder has defaulted on its loan.
现在它正在变成一个符号，标志着在这个前景一度光明的新兴经济体内，房地产开发商和业主的财富在急剧下滑。建到第10层时，星轨豪庭的施工停了下来，工地上的塔吊很少启动，建筑商已陷入拖欠贷款的境地。
“There’s no real work going on right now. There’s just a minimum number of workers coming in to do small things,” said Alam Sheikh, an electrician who is one of just 14 builders left at the site.
电工阿拉姆·谢赫(Alam Sheikh)说，“现在这里没有真正在施工。只有少数工人到工地来干些小活。”他是留在工地上的14名建筑工之一。
The real estate market in cities across India is crumbling as the Indian economy slows. The rupee has dropped nearly 20 percent against the dollar since early May, scaring away foreign investors.
随着印度经济放缓，印度各城市的房地产市场正在崩溃。自今年5月初以来，卢比兑美元已经下跌了近20%，这种跌幅吓退了外国投资者。
The Reserve Bank of India, the country’s central bank, raised a key short-term interest rate for commercial banks’ borrowing by two full percentage points in mid-July, to 10.25 percent, mainly to prevent further declines in the rupee. To put a brake on the flow of money leaving the country, the central bank followed up last month with a regulation banning Indians from transferring money overseas for real estate purchases.
今年7月中旬，印度的中央银行印度储备银行（Reserve Bank of India，简称RBI）把商业银行关键的短期借贷利率提高了整整两个百分点，达到了10.25%，此举主要是为了防止卢比进一步下跌。为了制止资金流出印度，中央银行紧接着在上个月出台了一项规定，禁止印度人把资金转移到海外购买房产。
Rising financing costs are all the more painful because India’s real estate developments take a long time to build because of a vast and often corrupt regulatory apparatus. Publicly traded real estate investment groups in India are heavily in debt, so they struggle to make interest payments and are not in a position to bankroll further projects.
不断上涨的融资成本更是让人痛苦不堪，由于印度的监管机构臃肿且腐败频发，使房地产开发商不得不花上更长的时间施工。在印度，公开上市的房地产投资集团负债累累，结果就是他们在苦苦挣扎着偿还利息，无法为更多的项目提供资金。
That combination has produced almost unanimous bearishness about the short-term prospects for residential, commercial and industrial real estate prices in India. Sanjay Dutt, the executive managing director for South Asia at Cushman & Wakefield, the world’s largest privately held commercial real estate company, predicted that prices would fall 10 percent in big Indian cities and 15 percent on the outskirts of large cities, where many speculative projects have been built. 
这些原因混合在一起，已经让所有人都几乎不约而同地对印度住宅、商务和工业地产价格的短期前景产生了悲观看法。高纬物业(Cushman & Wakefield)南亚区执行董事桑贾伊·杜特(Sanjay Dutt)预测，印度大城市的房价将下跌10%，大城市市郊的房价将下跌15%，那里有许多已经完工的投机项目。高纬物业是全球最大的私人商业地产公司。
What has sustained prices so far, and what might prevent more serious losses than those predicted by Mr. Dutt, has been the willingness of developers to hold growing inventories of unsold apartments, shops and offices without offering price discounts. The volume of real estate transactions has slumped in India as developers have refused to offer discounts for fear of starting a market rout.
开发商情愿让手中的公寓、商铺和写字楼存量不断上涨也不愿折价出售，正是这种做法支撑着维持至今的房价，可能也是为什么还没有出现比杜特等人预测的更为严重的损失。由于开发商担心引发市场崩溃而拒绝打折，印度的房产成交量已经急剧下滑。
“If they drop prices, investors will panic and it will be a self-fulfilling prophecy,” causing further declines in prices, said Siddharth Yog, a co-founder and managing partner of the Xander Group, a large international real estate investment firm.
大型国际房产投资公司Xander Group的共同创始人兼管理合伙人西达尔特·约格(Siddharth Yog)说，“如果他们调低价格，投资人会慌作一团，这就成了自证预言，”导致价格进一步下跌。
But with sellers refusing to cut prices, many potential buyers are losing interest. Devkinandan Agarwal, a Mumbai broker with three-quarters of his business in residential real estate and the rest in commercial real estate, said that until the last few months, he had at least three or four separate meetings each day with genuine, interested buyers; now he has only one a day.
不过，由于卖家拒绝降价，许多潜在的买家正在丧失兴趣。孟买的房产中介德沃基嫩登·阿加瓦尔(Devkinandan Agarwal)说，就在几个月前，他每天至少还要分别会见三到四个真正有兴趣的买家；而现在，他每天只见得着一个买家。阿加瓦尔从事的业务里，有四分之三是住宅项目，其余业务是商务地产项目。
“There are now only actual users in the market, there is hardly anyone buying real estate as an investment,” he said.
他说，“目前，市场上只有买房自住的买家，基本没有把房产当做投资的买家。”
Bimal Jalan, a former chief economic adviser to the Indian government who was also the governor of the central bank from 2000 to 2004, said in a telephone interview from New Delhi that the broader Indian economy could escape serious harm even if real estate prices did decline. India has low rates of homeownership, so families are less likely to be worried about falling home prices and cut household spending.
比马尔·扎兰(Bimal Jalan)在新德里接受电话采访时表示，即使房价真的下降，印度的宏观经济依然能够避免严重的伤害。印度的住房自有率相当低，所以印度家庭不大可能为房价下跌感到担忧，也不大可能削减家庭支出。扎兰是印度政府前首席经济顾问，曾在2000到2004年之间任中央银行行长。
Housing finance has played a small role in the Indian banking system, so Indian banks are less vulnerable to real estate downturns than banks in the West, Mr. Jalan said. Regulatory obstacles have slowed the pace of construction and limited the number of buildings to finance.
扎兰说，房地产融资在印度银行体系里是个小角色，因此，和西方的银行相比，印度银行不那么易于受到房地产衰退的冲击。监管机制已经设障减缓房产项目的施工步伐，限制了需要融资的建筑数量。
The construction of the Orbit Grand here illustrates many of the issues in Indian real estate, including costly regulatory delays. The Orbit Corporation, a publicly traded Mumbai developer, began building the complex and several others in western India with a $62 million loan in 2008 from LIC Housing Finance Ltd., based in Mumbai. But a combination of litigation over whether Orbit had full title to the entire site, which Orbit did not win until last March, together with a new set of municipal real estate regulations introduced in late 2010, slowed the pace of construction and prevented Orbit from preselling apartments. The company actually had to erect two separate buildings, with plans to join them together later, because the litigation, a chronic problem in Indian real estate, delayed construction on the 30 percent of the site’s acreage that was in question.
星轨豪庭的建设展现了印度房地产业的许多问题，包括代价高昂的监管延误问题。2008年，公开上市的孟买开发商轨道公司(Orbit Corporation)从位于孟买的LIC房产金融公司(LIC Housing Finance Ltd.)获得了6200万美元（约合3.79亿元人民币）的贷款，开始在印度西部建设星轨豪庭和其他几个项目。然而，轨道公司是否拥有整个地块的所有权的问题引发了诉讼，直到今年3月，公司才打赢官司，这起诉讼，再加上2010年末推出的多项城市房产新法规，拖慢了施工进度，让轨道公司无法预售自己的公寓。轨道公司实际上需要分别盖两栋楼，按计划要随后再把它们连为一体，由于官司诉讼这个长期困扰印度房地产业的问题，被延误的工程面积占了整个地块的30%。
“This led to a severe cash crunch at the company and resulted in the stalling construction of the project,” said Ramashrya Yadav, the chief financial officer at Orbit.
轨道公司财务总监拉马什耶·亚达夫(Ramashrya Yadav)说，“这给公司带来严重的现金危机，并导致工程进度受阻。”
Orbit defaulted on the LIC loan at the end of last year with a little more than a third of the original balance not yet repaid. LIC put the Orbit Grand into receivership in early August. But as often happens in India, Orbit has kept control of the sites.
到去年年底，轨道公司依然拖欠着LIC的贷款，还有三分之一多一点的原始欠款尚未偿还。8月初，LIC对星轨豪庭启动了破产接管程序。不过，就像在印度经常发生的那样，轨道公司一直控制着工地。
Mr. Yadav said that Orbit had now raised the money to finish the projects, and it received the needed environmental clearances four weeks ago. The Orbit Grand stalled with 10 stories completed out of 26, although the firm is seeking regulatory approval to extend the building up to 36 stories. Another project, less than a mile away, Orbit Terraces, stalled with 40 of 60 floors built.
亚达夫说，目前，轨道公司已经筹措到资金，要把项目做完，四周之前，它获得了所需的环境审批许可。尽管该公司力图获得监管批准，要把大楼扩建至36层，然而，原计划26层的建筑在建完10层之后就停工了。不到一英里之外的另一个项目，60层高的星轨天台(Orbit Terraces)在盖完第40层之后也停了工。
Orbit requires the permission of LIC to sell units, and any sales must go toward the defaulted loan. Mr. Yadav predicted that Orbit would be able to repay the defaulted loan within seven months, while acknowledging that the company faced a tough market for selling apartments. “As liquidity dries up, a price fall is also imminent,” he said. LIC declined to comment.
轨道公司需要LIC的许可才能销售楼内单元，任何销售款都必须被用于归还欠款。亚达夫预计，轨道公司能够在7个月内偿还拖欠的贷款，不过他同时承认，公司要在现在的市场销售公寓是有困难的。他说，“随着流动性出现枯竭，房价下跌迫在眉睫。”LIC拒绝置评。
While foreign investors in Indian real estate are licking their wounds after the 17.5 percent fall in the rupee against the dollar since the start of May, they do have one consolation. The longstanding shortage of space in many Indian cities because of regulatory barriers to new construction translates into high occupancy rates and steady rental incomes for commercial and residential real estate, at least in rupee terms.
自今年5月初以来，卢比兑美元下跌了17.5%，不过印度房产业的外国投资者在舔伤口之余也能感到一丝宽慰。对新建项目的监管壁垒导致印度的许多城市居住空间长期短缺，这种短缺转换成了相当高的入住率和稳定的商务楼宇及住宅租赁收入，至少按卢比算是这样。
“In terms of the underlying portfolio, tenant demand has been very good — there has been limited construction in the last few years because of tight credit, and that has slowed the supply of new offices,” said Christopher Heady, the Blackstone partner overseeing Asian real estate investments. The asset management firm Blackstone has invested $600 million in Indian real estate, mainly office complexes in Bangalore, a center of the information technology and outsourcing industries in southern India.
负责亚洲区房地产投资的黑石公司(Blackstone)合伙人克里斯托弗·黑迪(Christopher Heady)说，“就有潜力的投资组合而言，租户需求一直非常活跃，由于信贷紧缩，过去几年里，只有有限的项目在进行建设，这种情况降低了新办公楼的供应。”黑石公司作为一家资产管理公司已在印度房地产业投入了6亿美元，投资的主要对象有位于班加罗尔的办公楼群、一个信息科技中心及印度南部的外包产业。
These sectors have a lot of multinationals and big Indian companies that are reliable renters, Mr. Heady said, adding that these clients are “continuing to grow pretty rapidly.”
黑迪说，这些领域有大量的跨国公司和大型本土公司，它们都是可靠的租户，他还说，这些客户“依然在以相当快的速度增长着。”