WASHINGTON — As President Obama searches for a way to contain and ultimately reverse Russia’s invasion of southern Ukraine without using force, his team finds itself torn over just how far to go using the economic weapons in America’s arsenal.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统正在想方设法在不动用武力的前提下，约束并最终扭转俄罗斯对乌克兰南部的侵犯。而此时，奥巴马的团队发现，对于应该以多大的力度运用美国手中的经济武器，内部意见出现了分歧。
Administration officials have concluded that they have the means through sanctions to badly damage the Russian economy, and some officials think they should use that power sooner rather than later if President Vladimir V. Putin refuses to surrender control of Crimea and proceeds to annex it.
奥巴马政府官员认为，他们有能力通过制裁手段严重破坏俄罗斯经济。一些官员认为，如果俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)拒绝交出克里米亚的控制权，并进而吞并克里米亚，那么美国应该及早动用这种力量，不要拖得太晚。
But others in the administration, particularly economic officials, are wary of especially ruinous options that they argue could alienate allies as well as provoke a dangerous cycle of retaliation. The White House is under intense pressure from major American companies that do not want to lose business to competitors because of unilateral sanctions or to risk retribution from the Kremlin.
然而另一些政府官员，尤其是经济官员，却对破坏性尤为巨大的选项十分警惕。他们认为，那些举措可能会疏远盟友，还会激发相互报复的恶性循环。美国大型企业向白宫施加了极大压力，这些企业不想让自己的生意因为单边制裁而被竞争对手抢走，也不想冒受到克里姆林宫报复的风险。
Mr. Obama, who will host Ukraine’s new prime minister, Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, at the White House on Wednesday in a show of solidarity, has so far held off imposing measures with any financial bite, in part to give diplomacy a chance. While he has canceled trade talks and military cooperation, his only move on sanctions has been to ban visas for fewer than a dozen Russian and Ukrainian figures deemed responsible for undermining Ukraine’s sovereignty.
周三，奥巴马会在白宫接见乌克兰新总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)以示支持。目前奥巴马尚未采取任何会构成经济伤害的举措，部分原因是给外交努力留一个机会。尽管他取消了贸易谈判和军事合作，但唯一的制裁举动只是禁止向有限几个俄罗斯和乌克兰人发放签证，这些人被认为应当为乌克兰主权受到损害而负责。
By all accounts, Mr. Obama has the power to go much further even without new legislation from Congress, which nonetheless is advancing competing bills to punish Russia. He signed an executive order last week authorizing not just additional visa bans but also asset freezes and other financial moves. But he did not actually invoke it against any targets, preserving what he called “the flexibility to adjust our response going forward based on Russia’s actions.”
总体而言，即使国会不通过新立法，奥巴马也有权采取力度强得多的措施，不过国会仍在推进旨在惩罚俄罗斯的不同法案。上周，奥巴马签署了一项行政命令，不仅授权实行更多的签证禁令，而且也授权采取冻结资产及其他经济举措。但是他实际上并没有针对任何目标采取这些举措，他说这是为了保留“视俄罗斯的动作而调整我们下一步的应对的灵活性”。
Administration officials said the internal debate was not whether to penalize Russia for its actions — there is broad consensus for that, one that hardens with each passing day — but when, and how hard. Beyond freezing assets of individuals, the administration could sanction banks and potentially cut the country off from the dollar economy.
奥巴马政府官员表示，内部辩论的问题并不在于是否要为其所作所为惩罚俄罗斯，政府内部对这一点有广泛的共识，而且这种共识与日俱增。问题在于何时采取惩罚，力度该有多大。除了冻结个人的资产之外，政府还可以制裁银行，甚至可能把俄罗斯剥离出美元经济体系。
“There are people who are cautious about going too far too quickly, and there are those who want the president to show resolve,” said a former administration official in touch with the White House.
“有人对动作力度太大或太快心怀警惕，也有人希望总统能表现出决心，”一位与白宫有接触的前政府官员表示。
According to current and former officials, those most supportive of strong action include officials closest to the situation in Ukraine: Victoria J. Nuland, the assistant secretary of state for the region, and Geoffrey R. Pyatt, the ambassador to the country. Those more wary about crippling the Russian economy include Jack Lew, the Treasury secretary; Michael Froman, the president’s trade representative; and Caroline Atkinson, the president’s international economics adviser.
现任及前任官员表示，最坚定地支持强硬行动的，是那些与乌克兰关系最密切的官员，如负责该地区的助理国务卿维多利亚·J·纽兰(Victoria J. Nuland)，以及美国驻乌克兰大使杰弗里·R·派亚特(Geoffrey R. Pyatt)。较为担心压垮俄罗斯经济的官员包括财政部长杰克·卢(Jack Lew)、奥巴马的新任贸易代表迈克尔·费罗曼(Michael Froman)，以及奥巴马的国际经济顾问卡罗琳·阿特金森(Caroline Atkinson)。
The immediate question is whether to take action before Sunday’s referendum in Crimea in hopes of forestalling it or instead to wait and see what Moscow does after it is over. The issue is further complicated by the fact that financial sanctions take time to prepare. While the United States has broad latitude to bar foreigners from traveling here, the government needs to build an evidentiary case that could withstand possible court challenge when it freezes assets.
当下迫切的问题在于，是要在周日克里米亚举行公投之前采取行动，从而预先阻止问题的发生，还是要等到公投以后，看俄罗斯会有何反应。不过经济制裁需要花时间筹备，这一点可能会使局面更为复杂。尽管美国在禁止外国人赴美方面有着很大空间，但政府在冻结资产时，需要罗列充分的证据，以防在法庭上遭遇挑战。
In rallying support, Mr. Obama in recent days has made calls to beyond the usual big allies, speaking with the leaders of Spain and Kazakhstan. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. called the leader of Cyprus, where a lot of Russian tycoons and companies keep their money.
为了赢得支持，奥巴马最近几天联络了一些不常联系也不是大国的盟友，他与西班牙和哈萨克斯坦领导人通了电话。副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)则给塞浦路斯领导人打了电话，许多俄罗斯富翁和企业把资产放在了塞浦路斯。
American officials said there would be more unanimity if Russia escalated the crisis by following through with annexation or moving further into Ukraine. Officials are increasingly worried because the Crimean Peninsula, with no land connection to Russia, depends on Ukraine for water, electricity and other energy, which means Moscow might decide to seize more Ukrainian territory to supply the enclave.
美国官员称，如果俄罗斯吞并克里米亚，或者更深入地进犯乌克兰，从而使危机升级，内部的共识就会更强。由于克里米亚半岛不与俄罗斯接壤，水、电以及其他能源均依靠乌克兰供给，官员们愈发担心俄罗斯也许会占领更多乌克兰领土来为这块区域提供补给。
“If they actually annex, if a Russian tricolor goes up, this is a whole new ballgame,” said Strobe Talbott, president of the Brookings Institution and a former deputy secretary of state who has written several books on Russia. “Putin is the game changer, and he’s got to be tagged out in some fashion. Cautious baby steps, they just won’t work.”
“如果他们真的进行吞并，升起俄罗斯的三色旗，那我们面对的就是全新的情形了，”斯特罗布·塔尔博特(Strobe Talbott)说。“普京是搅局的人，必须要用某种方法把他赶出局。谨慎的小步前行不会起任何作用。”塔尔博特是布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)总裁，曾任副国务卿，著有多本关于俄罗斯的著作。
But American businesses are warning against overreaction. Representatives of groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and the United States-Russia Business Council have been holding meetings at the White House or in Congress to share their views.
但美国商业界在警告政府不要过度反应。一些商业团体，如美国商会(US Chamber of Commerce)、美国全国制造商协会(National Association of Manufacturers)和美俄商会(United States-Russia Business Council)的代表们纷纷在白宫和国会举行会议，表达着自己的意见。
They are urging policy makers to be sure that any sanctions would actually have an impact on Russian behavior, that the costs not outweigh the benefits and that they be multilateral. “Our plea is basically to look beyond the next news cycle at what is our long-term strategy here,” said one industry official, who declined to be identified in sharing private discussions. “We would support an effective policy.”
他们试图说服政策制定者，任何对俄罗斯采取的制裁，都会对它之后的行动产生切实的影响，不但成本高于收益，而且会牵扯多国。“我们的诉求基本上是抛开眼下的事态，着眼于长期策略，”一位商业界人士透露。“我们会去支持有效的政策。”由于涉及私下的讨论，此人不愿公开身份。
Although the United States does only $40 billion in trade with Russia each year, American businesses argue that the amount understates the real economic ties. Ford, for instance, has two assembly plants in Russia that make cars with material that comes from Europe, so that would not be reflected in import-export figures.
尽管美国与俄罗斯每年的贸易额仅有400亿美元（约合2500亿元人民币），美国商业界却认为，这个数字并不能代表美俄之间真正的经济联系。举例来说，由于美国福特公司(Ford)在俄罗斯的两座汽车装配厂使用的都是由欧洲进口的原材料，所以这些并不会反映在美俄两国的进出口贸易额数字中。