MOSCOW — In the far east, the teachers went on strike. In central Russia, it was the employees of a metallurgical plant. In St. Petersburg, autoworkers laid down their tools. And at a remote construction site in Siberia, laborers painted their complaints in gigantic white letters on the roofs of their dormitories.
莫斯科——在远东地区，是老师们在罢工；在俄罗斯中部，罢工的是一家冶金厂的员工；在圣彼得堡，汽车厂的工人放下了工具。在西伯利亚偏远的建筑工地，工人在他们宿舍的楼顶上用巨大的白字写下了自己的不满。
“Dear Putin, V.V.,” the message said. “Four months without pay.”
“亲爱的普京·V·V(Putin, V.V.)，”标语上写道。“四个月没发工资。”
After months of frustration with an economy sagging under the weight of international sanctions and falling energy prices, workers across Russia are starting to protest against unpaid wages and go on strike, in the first nationwide backlash against President Vladimir V. Putin’s economic policies.
数月以来，由于国际制裁和能源价格下跌所引起的经济低迷让人颇感沮丧，俄罗斯各地的工人都纷纷开始抗议拖欠工资，并开始罢工，这是反对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的经济政策的首次全国性抗议。
The protests have been wildcat actions for the most part, as organized labor never emerged as a strong political or economic force in modern Russia. Under the Soviets, labor unions had been de facto incorporated into management.
这些抗议在很大程度上都是自发性的，因为在当代俄罗斯，工会组织从来都不是强大的政治或经济力量。在苏联时代，工会则实际上已被纳入管理阶层。
Russian companies tend to avoid laying off workers in a downturn to limit severance payments — or to evade the wrath of officials trying to minimize unemployment in their districts. So with the Russian economy expected to contract this year and next, many workers are going unpaid or being sent away from their factories for a few days at a time of unwanted “vacations.”
俄罗斯企业倾向于避免在经济低迷时期裁员，意在减少企业需要支付的遣散费，或者是避免惹怒地方官员，后者试图极力限制自己辖区内的失业率。所以今明两年，在俄罗斯经济可能继续收缩的情况下，许多工人都无法拿到工资，有些工厂还会强行给工人一连放几天假，虽然他们并不想要这些“假期”。
Unpaid wages, or wage arrears, an old scourge in Russia, rose on April 1 to 2.9 billion rubles, or about $56 million, according to the Russian statistical service. That is a 15 percent increase over a year earlier, but experts say that still does not capture the scope of the diminished pay of workers involuntarily idled during the slowdown.
长期以来，拖欠工资一直是俄罗斯的一大问题。俄罗斯联邦统计局数据显示，4月1日，拖欠工资总额已提升至29亿卢布，折合5600万美元（约合3.5亿元人民币），同比增加了15%。但专家称，这个数据还是没有体现出经济低迷期，被迫放假的工人所损失的工资。
Discontent over unpaid wages was tamped down for a while by a surge in national pride after the annexation of Crimea from Ukraine a year ago, and by repeated messages on state television that the hardship is an unavoidable price to pay for standing up for Russia’s interests. The strikes, in any case, have not been widely publicized in state news media.
民众对拖欠工资的不满一度受到了抑制，原因是一年前，由于从乌克兰手中吞并了克里米亚，民众的民族自豪感高涨；此外，国家电视台上也反复宣扬，为了捍卫俄罗斯的利益，当前的困难是不可避免的代价。但不论在什么情况下，官方媒体都没有广泛报道这些罢工。
Yet the strikes and protests in the hinterlands — like the huge graffiti addressed to the president — are posing a new challenge to Mr. Putin’s government, which presided over an energy-driven economic expansion for most of the past 15 years.
然而，内陆地区的罢工和抗议活动——比如写给普京看的巨幅涂鸦——对普京政府构成了新的挑战。过去15年，在普京政府的治理下，俄罗斯经济受到能源驱动持续扩张。
During that time, most high-profile antigovernment protests, including the so-called White Ribbon movement in Moscow in 2011, promulgated political causes rather than economic ones. Those were met with corresponding political measures by the Kremlin such as arrests and stricter laws on staging rallies. A further chill fell over the liberal political opposition this winter after the assassination of a prominent leader, Boris Y. Nemtsov.
这段时间里，大多数引人注目的反政府抗议活动——其中包括2011年莫斯科举行的被称为“白丝带”的抗议运动——都是出于政治而非经济目的。克里姆林宫对这些行动采取了相应的政治举措，比如逮捕相关人士，或者对举行集会进行更严格的法律限制。今年冬天，当著名反对派领袖鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y. Nemtsov)遭到暗杀之后，自由派政治反对者感受到了更加刺骨的寒意。
But the labor actions are putting forward financial demands, and are being staged in Russian rust belt towns where the government is unlikely to find easy economic solutions to resolve the grievances so long as the recession lasts and oil prices remain low.
但是，劳工们的行动提出了经济诉求，而且发生在俄罗斯的老工业城镇。在这些地方，只要经济持续萧条，油价继续低迷，政府就不大可能轻松找到经济上的解决方案，来消除人们的不满。
Regional newspapers described the teachers’ strike this month, in Zabaikal Province bordering China, as the first such labor action by teachers in Russia in years. The strike went ahead even though a regional governor had implored the teachers to work unpaid for patriotic reasons, which suggested some waning of the nationalistic pride over the Crimean annexation.
地方报纸报道称，教师们本月在毗邻中国的外贝加尔边疆区(Zabaikal Province)举行的抗议，是数年来俄罗斯教师举行的第一次这样的劳资抗议行动。尽管一位地方官员还曾请求老师们从爱国角度出发，继续在没有工资的情况下工作，但抗议活动仍在继续进行。这表明，人们由吞并克里米亚而产生的民族自豪感正在减弱。
“Yes, it is serious when salaries are not paid, but not serious enough not to come to work,” the governor, Konstantin Ilkovsky, had insisted. Mr. Ilkovksy said the federal government had delayed transferring tax revenue to the region, causing the delay in payments.
“的确，不发工资是一个很严重的问题，但是还没有严重到不来上班的程度，”区长康斯坦丁·伊利科夫斯基(Konstantin Ilkovsky)坚定地表示。伊利科夫斯基说，联邦政府推迟了向该地区划拨税收收入的时间，所以导致了发工资时间的延迟。
The construction worker protest in Siberia was all the more remarkable for coming at a highly prestigious site, the new national space center, the Vostochny Cosmodrome. There, deep in a coniferous forest off a spur of the Trans-Siberian Railway, laborers laid concrete and built gigantic hangars for rockets long after salaries stopped being paid in December.
西伯利亚建筑工人的抗议更加引人注目，因为这些活动发生在一个非常有名的地区，即新的国家太空中心，东方港航天发射场(Vostochny Cosmodrome)。在那里，从12月起就没再领到工资的工人，在西伯利亚大铁路(Trans-Siberian Railway)一个分支旁的针叶林深处铺设了混凝土，还为火箭建造了巨型机库。
“We haven’t seen a kopeck since December,” Anton I. Tyurishev, an engineer, said in a telephone interview. Some people walked away, but he stayed on his job burrowing tunnels through the frozen soil for communications wires near the launchpad, hoping to be paid. “The company should have laid people off if they didn’t have enough money.”
“12月以来我们就没见到过一个子儿，”工程师安东·I·秋里舍夫(Anton I. Tyurishev)在电话采访中说。有些人走了，但他还在坚守岗位，一边在冻土中挖掘用来埋藏通讯电缆的隧道，一边希望自己能拿到工资。“如果公司没有足够的钱，就应该裁员。”
In all, 1,123 employees of a main subcontractor, the Pacific Bridge-Building Company, have not been paid since December. Most work stopped on March 1, though dozens of employees stayed at the site to guard equipment. Their labor protest took the form of writing the giant message to President Putin on the roofs of their dormitories.
自12月以来，主承包商太平洋桥梁建设公司(Pacific Bridge-Building Company)总共有1123名员工没拿到工资。大多数工作都已在3月1日停止，不过仍有数十名员工留在公司守护设备。他们的抗议方式，就是在宿舍楼顶用大字写下给普京总统的讯息。
In a rare twist for Russia’s unpaid workers, somebody finally noticed this time.
对于俄罗斯拿不到工资的工人，出现了一个罕见的转折：他们的不满终于引起了注意。
After the message appeared, a Russian state television crew showed up to ask the workers to appear on a televised call-in show with Mr. Putin on Thursday. Hours before the show, the general contractor paid about 80 percent of the salaries to the 70 or so employees who remained at the space center, Mr. Tyurishev said. The contractor, Spetsstroy, earlier paid a portion of back wages for all employees for December.
在这条消息出现后，俄罗斯国家电视台的一个摄制组来到这里，请这些工人与普京一同参加周四的一个热线电视节目。秋里舍夫说，在节目开始几小时前，总承包商为留在太空中心的约70名员工支付了大概80%的工资。早些时候，承包商联邦特种建设署(Spetsstroy)为所有员工支付了12月的一部分欠付工资。
“Because of the indifference toward us, we just despaired, and decided on this original means to appeal directly to you,” Mr. Tyurishev told Mr. Putin on the call-in show, referring to the sign the workers had painted. “So you saw us, and helped in our situation, to resolve our problem.”
“因为我们受到冷漠对待，于是我们感到绝望，就决定采取这种有创意的方式，直接向您陈情，”秋里舍夫在热线节目中告诉普京。他们说的创意方式是指工人们涂写的大字。“于是您看到了我们，并帮我们解决了我们的问题。”
Mr. Putin said he would ensure the whole group was paid in full.
普京表示，他将确保所有人都能拿到全部工资。
“It is one of the most important construction projects in the country,” he said of the new space center. “Not because I initiated the project, but because the country needs a new launchpad.”
“这是全国最重要的建设项目之一，”普京形容新太空中心说。“不是因为我个人发起了这个项目，而是因为国家需要一个新的发射台。”