On a recent Thursday evening, the United States Navy notified Ryan Benoit that instead of tracking the $150 million overhaul of the Essex, an 844-foot-long air and amphibious assault ship, he should probably drink a couple of gin and tonics with his wife and water the drooping lettuce in his planter.
最近一个星期四的晚上，瑞安·伯努瓦(Ryan Benoit)接到了美国海军的通知，通知上并没有让他监督一艘造价1.5亿美元（约合人民币9.1亿元）、长达844英尺（约合257米）的两栖攻击舰——埃塞克斯号(Essex)的检修工作；而是让他或许陪妻子喝上几杯金汤力(gin and tonics)，再给院子里快要蔫掉的莴苣浇浇水。
This being the year of the Great Congressional Sequester, the next day was Furlough Friday. And Mr. Benoit, a 37-year-old civilian port engineer and a lieutenant commander in the Navy Reserve, would be spending the accidental holiday in the garden.
今年，美国大幅削减了军费，而第二天就是一个星期五休假日。现年37岁的伯努瓦是一名民用港口工程师兼海军预备役部队少校。对他来说，这个假期来得有些意外。他将在花园里度过这个假期。
“I’m being told not to answer the phone,” Mr. Benoit said. This slackness was a shock to his routine. “I’m always doing something. I very rarely get to relax.”
“他们让我不要接电话，”伯努瓦说，突然放松下来让他很不适应，“我一直忙着工作，很少休息。”
Orders are orders. But there was work to be done at home, too: a renovation of the yard that is almost as ambitious as the warship’s and only a little less reliant on industrial supplies. For the last four years, Mr. Benoit and his wife, Chantal Aida Gordon, 30, have been creating the quintessential outdoor room, a couple of blocks from the surfers’ paradise known as Windansea Beach in this city’s La Jolla section.
命令还是得遵守。不过在家里也是有活要干的：庭院需要重新装修，其工程量丝毫不亚于维护战舰， 只不过它对工业设备的依赖度没有那么严重。过去四年来，伯努瓦和现年30岁的妻子尚塔尔·阿伊达·戈登(Chantal Aida Gordon)一直在打造优雅的户外空间。几个街区以外就是冲浪者的天堂——位于拉霍亚（La Jolla，一个富裕、多山的海滨度假胜地社区，位于南加州圣迭戈市北部——译注）的温丹希海滩(Windansea Beach)。
The house? A two-bedroom, one-bath rental. A little over 750 square feet for $2,200 a month. Speak of it no more.
夫妇俩的住所什么样？那是一套两室一卫的出租屋，面积略大于750平方英尺（约合229平方米），每月的租金是2200美元（约合人民币13404元）。具体情况这里就不提了。
As for the yard? This will be a place to host dinner parties and screen Chargers games and stash a shortboard and shower off and plant cactuses and harvest guava and blend cocktails and sleep off a hangover and catch up on back issues of The New Yorker. You know, that kind of space.
至于庭院，他们将在这里举办晚宴，放映圣迭戈闪电队（San Diego Chargers，美国橄榄球联盟最初的八支球队之一——译注）的球赛，存放冲浪用的短板，晒日光浴，种植仙人掌，收获番石榴，调制鸡尾酒，酣睡一场以解宿醉，阅览《纽约客》(The New Yorker)的过刊。你明白的，总之就是这样一个场所。
It will also be a place to blog. As of this spring, the design project has turned into a new garden-and-style site, TheHorticult.com. The yard is now a backdrop for photographing D.I.Y. delphinium garlands and Wellington boots by Le Chameau.
另外，此地还将成为一个博客话题。今年春天，这个设计项目衍生出了一个新的园艺与时尚类网站：TheHorticult.com。这座庭院已成为一处用来拍摄自制的飞燕草花环和Le Chameau牌威灵顿雨靴(Wellington Boots)的布景了。
It’s a lot to ask of a 55-by-44-foot, concrete-covered lot. And to the extent that the couple is building practically every piece of furniture and planting every container, it’s a lot to ask of themselves. You might say that Ms. Gordon and Mr. Benoit are not transforming the garden so much as the garden is transforming them.
庭院面积为55乘44英尺（约合17米乘13米），地面覆盖着混凝土层。我们对此有很多问题要问；而考虑到夫妇俩是实实在在地亲手打造了每件家具，种植了每棵花草，对于他们自己，我们也有很多问题。你可能会说，在戈登和伯努瓦塑造这座花园的同时，花园也在塑造他们。
Julian Mackler, a longtime friend who photographed the couple’s wedding, has watched this change take root. “Some people want to stay on the sidelines, and some people want to get their hands dirty,” he said on the phone from Harlem. “I never see people my age take such care of a garden unless they’re a straight-up hippie.”
朱利安·麦克勒(Julian Mackler)是夫妇俩的老朋友，曾为他们拍摄婚纱照。他亲眼见证了这座花园发生变化的始末。“有些人只想观望，有些人则喜欢亲自动手，” 他在哈莱姆区(Harlem)接受电话采访时表示，“我从没见过像我这个年纪的人会如此悉心打理一座花园的，除非他们是彻头彻尾的嬉皮士。”
Ms. Gordon moved from New York University to an editorial-assistant post in the West Coast office of Vogue. (You can see her introducing Lauren Conrad to the copy machine in the first few episodes of MTV’s docudrama “The Hills.”) Mr. Benoit attended the United States Merchant Marine Academy, in Kings Point, N.Y. And for a couple of East Coast transplants, the quest for a classic Southern California space has inspired a shift in consciousness.
戈登从纽约大学毕业后，曾在《时尚》(Vogue)杂志社的西海岸办事处担任助理编辑。她还在音乐电视网(MTV)的纪实戏剧《好莱坞女孩》(The Hills)中上过镜，在该片的前几集里为劳伦·康拉德(Lauren Conrad)说明影印机的使用方法。伯努瓦毕业于纽约州金斯伯因特(Kings Point)的美国商船学院（United States Merchant Marine Academy，培养海军的精英院校——译注）。作为一对从东海岸移居到西海岸的夫妇，两人想让自己的新家呈现出经典的南加州风情，这样的诉求就激发了他们想法的转变。
“At work, I’m in an industrial environment: no plants, no nothing, just a steel structure,” Mr. Benoit said. “It’s the opposite of when I come home.”
“在工作时，我面对的就是一个工业化的环境：没有植物，什么都没有，成天面对的就是一副钢筋铁骨，”伯努瓦说，“而回到家后，我看到的是一个截然相反的环境。”
Ms. Gordon looked at her husband sympathetically. “Don’t you think some of those old guys grow some tomatoes?”
戈登同情地看着她的丈夫：“你不觉得那些老头子里也有人会种一点番茄么？”
The blog has revealed the earthy proclivities of many of their urbane friends. “I couldn’t believe the number of people who got excited about the jacaranda story,” she said, referring to a post about the omnipresent San Diego trees that bloom purple in late May. “Ten years ago, I wouldn’t have been able to spot a jacaranda.”
他们的博客，激发了很多都市朋友的乡土情怀。“我简直无法相信，竟然有这么多人在看了蓝花楹(jacaranda)的故事后会为之疯狂，”戈登说。她所指的，是一篇关于圣迭戈随处可见的树木在五月末开出紫色花朵的博文。“要是在十年前，我还不可能亲眼见到一棵蓝花楹呢。”
Mr. Benoit said, “Four months ago, I wouldn’t have been able to recognize a jacaranda.”
伯努瓦说：“要是在四个月前，我还认不出这种植物。”
Ms. Gordon added, “It just deepens your experience when you’re walking down the street and you know what a tree is.”
戈登附和道：“以后你在街上走的时候，就认识街边的树木了。这会加深你的愉悦感受。”
Before Ms. Gordon was a gardener, she was a writer. She volunteered at a community garden in East Harlem to research a coming-of-age novel, which her agent is now shopping. Titled “The Fame and Exile of the Lotus Eaters,” it chronicles the escapades of a “teenage nerd” who discovers a new lotus cultivar.
戈登在从事园艺之前靠写作为生。当时她在东哈莱姆区的一座社区花园里当志愿者，好为自己即将出炉的一部小说做调研。小说目前正处于推广阶段，标题为《食莲者的成名与流亡》(The Fame and Exile of the Lotus Eaters)，主人公是一名发现了莲花新品种的“书呆子少女”，故事围绕着她的种种冒险行为而展开。
“The flower becomes an overnight hit in Manhattan, the way those things do,” she said. “Things go downhill when her friends start using the flower as a study drug.” (As a day job, she works anonymously as a copywriter for a business strategist.)
“新品种的莲花在曼哈顿一夜走红，接下来就是这种事往往会变成的样子，”她说，“当主人公的朋友开始用这种莲花做药物研究的时候，故事情节开始急转直下。”（目前戈登白天的工作是给商业战略师担任匿名的广告文案写手。）
Before Mr. Benoit was a gardener, he was a photographer. On his travels as a reservist, or with Ms. Gordon, he would fill up memory cards with botanical photos.
而伯努瓦在做园艺之前是一名摄影师。每次作为预备役军人出门远行或与戈登一同出游时，他都会拍下一堆植物的照片，将存储卡塞满。
Not infrequently, he has coaxed his wife into these pictures. In botanical terms, Ms. Gordon would classify as willowy, with rufous hair and a slightly maculate complexion. Put plainly, she has the kind of looks that might stand out in a nightclub, which happens to be where the couple met.
时不常地，他也会哄妻子为他当摄影模特。如果用植物学术语来描述戈登，或许可将她形容为如柳树般苗条；她还拥有赤褐色的秀发和略带雀斑的面颊。说白了，她就是那种能在夜店里鹤立鸡群的美人，而夜店恰恰就是两人相识的地方。
“You’re easy to photograph, babe,” he said.
“你很上镜，宝贝。”他说。
“Thanks, babe,” she said.
“谢谢你，宝贝。”她回应道。
The house the pair moved into as newlyweds six years ago was virgin ground. That’s probably too generous a description. As their friend and across-the-street neighbor, David Deitch, said, “That house, before they moved in, was a shambles.”
六个月前，这对新婚夫妇入住的新居还是一片处女地。或许这么形容还算客气的。据夫妇俩的朋友、街对面的邻居戴维·戴奇(David Deitch)说，“那套房子在他们搬进来之前就是一个烂摊子。”
Ms. Gordon recalled, “Our neighbor’s ficus was growing into the yard.”
戈登回忆道：“邻居家的榕树都长到我们院子里来了。”
Mr. Benoit added, “There wasn’t much here to work with.”
伯努瓦补充道：“当时我们也无能为力。”
Whatever the couple’s aesthetic was at that point, it wasn’t the shaggy look. They discovered an expression of their nascent style on weekend trips to Palm Springs, Calif., where they basked in spots like the Ace Hotel (rehabbed by the Los Angeles design firm Commune) and the Parker Palm Springs (by Jonathan Adler). Every room and patio seemed to showcase a different material. Ceramics and tiles butted up against leather ottomans and Navajo rugs.
无论夫妇俩那个时候的美学理念是怎么样的，荒草丛生的样子都不是他们想要的。在一个周末，当他们去棕榈泉(Palm Springs)度假，在由洛杉矶设计公司Commune重建的埃斯酒店(Ace Hotel)和由乔纳森·阿德勒(Jonathan Adler)设计的棕榈泉黎客酒店(Parker Palm Springs)晒日光浴时，发觉这些地方的陈设正符合他们心中朦胧的设计喜好。每个房间和露台都在视觉上展现出不同的质感。陶器、砖瓦与皮革软椅、纳瓦霍地毯形成了鲜明的反差。
Ms. Gordon described the style as “a riot of different patterns and colors. You don’t think it will work, but it makes a lot of emotional sense.”
戈登将这种风格称为“不同花纹和颜色间的争奇斗艳。你会觉得这种混搭风是行不通的，但它就是能给人带来丰富的情感冲击。”
She and Mr. Benoit began to reimagine their midcentury ranch house here as it might have appeared in a 1960s photo spread from Sunset magazine. Mr. Benoit fell under the design influence of Southern California philosopher kings like Richard Neutra and Rudolph Schindler.
夫妇俩由此开始重新构想他们自己的新居。他们的房子本身始建于上世纪中叶，是一座农庄式的平房，风格类似于《日落》杂志（Sunset，是一本居家生活类杂志，专注于旅游、户外、家居设计、食谱及酒等——译注）在20世纪60年代刊载的照片里的建筑。伯努瓦的设计理念受到了理查德·诺伊特拉(Richard Neutra)、鲁道夫·辛德勒(Rudolph Schindler)等南加州建筑大师的影响。
“We liked the idea of being able to step outside and just have it be another living space,” he said. Alas, there was no seamless glass membrane. “If we owned a place ourselves, it would be nice to be able to open the space.”
“我们希望自己走出家门，就能进入另一个的起居空间，”他说。可惜现在的房子里没有无缝玻璃膜。“如果我们有一套自己的房子，把它设计成开放式的也不错啊。”
Ms. Benoit said, “So you can see straight out of the other side to the pool.”
伯努瓦说：“这样你就能直接看到对面的泳池了。”
Of course, there was no pool, either. And however much the couple appreciated the vintage furnishings in the boutiques of Palm Springs, Mr. Benoit said, “We couldn’t afford any of that stuff.”
当然，现在的住处里也没有泳池。况且，就算夫妇俩再怎么喜爱棕榈泉精品酒店里陈列的那些复古家具，“那种东西我们一件也买不起。”伯努瓦说。
The furnishings the couple could afford, Mr. Benoit recalled, were junk. Specifically, industrial surplus from a warehouse near the shipyards where, he said, “they sell stuff for just above scrap.” This is how they ended up with a planter made out of a ship’s horn, the size and shape of a sousaphone.
当时夫妇俩所能负担得起的家具，据伯努瓦回忆，都是废旧物品，具体说来，就是船坞附近一家仓库里的工业尾料。“这些东西的售价也就比废品高一点点。”这就解释了为什么他们有个花盆是用船用喇叭制成的，大小和形状跟低音大号一样。
Or take the outdoor bar table where Mr. Benoit was sitting. “I call this a rolling entertainment arbor,” he said. Over the course of a day, you could make coffee on the 41-inch-high Douglas fir tabletop, transplant a few succulents and then plug in the laptop. And it was an ideal spot for a light dinner.
户外酒吧桌也是一例，台面由道格拉斯冷杉制成。“我将它称为旋转娱乐桌，”他就坐在这张桌子边上说。在一天当中，你可以坐在这张41英寸高（约合1米）的桌边煮咖啡、移植几株多肉植物，然后插上笔记本。同时，这里也是享用便餐的绝佳之所。
At that prompt, Ms. Gordon disappeared gracefully to put together a plate of ceviche and chips, takeout from Oscar’s Mexican Seafood down the road.
听到这个提示，戈登优雅地走进屋，端来一碟柠檬腌生鱼(ceviche)和一盘薯片。两道菜都是从街边的海鲜店Oscar’s Mexican Seafood叫的外卖。
“Do you want any cava, babe?” she asked.
“要不要来点卡瓦酒(cava)，宝贝？”她问道。
“Yeah, babe,” he said.
“好啊，宝贝。”他答道。
The frame for the piece came from two industrial stepladders. “I think I bought them for a total of $60,” he said. And the whole battlewagon rolls on eight beefy industrial casters.
桌子的支架由两把工业用人字梯组成。“我记得两个梯子加起来大概花了我60美元（约合人民币366元），”他说。整台桌子形同一艘战舰，底下装了八个结实的工业用脚轮。
Mr. Benoit rose from his stool, as if to give it a spin. Then he grabbed on to the rafters overhead and pulled himself halfway through a chin-up. “I like garden design that’s a little bit more heavy and masculine, in general,” he said. (He has started to post prototypes on a separate site, Ryan Benoit Design.)
伯努瓦从凳子上站起身，仿佛想把它旋转一下。接着，他抓住头顶的椽子，将自己吊在半空做了个引体向上。“大体上，我所喜欢的庭园设计工作是偏阳刚一点的重体力活。”伯努瓦还建了另一个网站，名为“瑞安·伯努瓦设计”(Ryan Benoit Design)。他已开始在上面发布自己的设计草案。
A feminine balance, he said, came from the plants the couple liked to install in his furniture. This is mostly Ms. Gordon’s portfolio, and she wandered over to what they call the “living table,” a coffee table fitted together out of $50 worth of Douglas fir two-by-sixes. A cruciform shape at the center makes an inset planting bed, rather like a sunken living room for ’70s swingers.
为给小院增添一点阴柔之气作为平衡，伯努瓦说，他们也喜欢在他打造的家具里种些植物，这部分工作主要由戈登负责。戈登走向一张被他们称为“生长桌”(living table)的咖啡桌。这件家具由总价值50美元（约合人民币305元）、2×6规格的道格拉斯冷杉木料拼成，中心的十字形凹陷是一个花床，看起来像70年代的时髦人家里布置的凹式客厅。
Ms. Gordon knelt down to pet a few favorite specimens. The Lithops marmorata, a clumping succulent, resembled an upside-down unicorn’s hoof. Far-fetched, perhaps, but then Ms. Gordon’s favorite plants often possess a quality of fantasy. It’s no accident, perhaps, that one of her most popular springtime blog posts cataloged the botany of the Seven Kingdoms on “Game of Thrones.”
戈登跪下来，玩赏着几株心爱的植物。其中有一株名叫茧型玉系生石花(Lithops marmorata)，是一种块状的多肉植物，看起来就像倒置的独角兽蹄。要说它很美观，或许有些牵强，不过戈登喜欢的植物往往都比较奇特。在今年春季发布的一篇最热门的博文中，她将《权力游戏》(Game of Thrones)里七大王国的植物进行了归类。或许这并不令人意外。
Desert plants are nothing if not permutations on the improbable. “It’s like buying a little living sculpture,” she said.
如果不能在排列组合上翻出新意，沙漠植物也就没什么意思了。“就好像你买下的是一尊有生命的雕像。”她说。
By contrast, the couple is happy to leave the food gardening to the professionals, Mr. Benoit said. “To be honest with you, we don’t grow vegetables, because I don’t really like the way they look.”
与此形成鲜明对比的是，夫妇俩倒是很乐意将花园里种菜的事留给那些专业人士去做。伯努瓦说，“老实跟你说，我们不种蔬菜是因为我不太喜欢它们的样子。”
He pointed to a silver-colored form nestled beneath the woolly rose (Echeveria Doris Taylor). The common name for this species was galvanized pipe, and the black shoot under the cap was an HDMI cable. To be clear, this was not a plant but the hookup to the outdoor projector for the “hideaway theater.”
他指了指坐落在一株拟石莲花(Echeveria Doris Taylor)下方的那个银色“植物”。这一物种的俗名叫做镀锌管，“伞盖”下方的黑色“花芽”就是高清多媒体接口(HDMI)电缆。说明一下，其实它根本就不是植物，而是一块接线板，用来接通这处“隐身剧场”的室外放映机。
The screen is camouflaged, too. Mr. Benoit circled a neatly trimmed rosemary shrub and stopped at a trellis frame in the shape of a window. Reaching behind the fascia beam at the top, he pulled down a 91-inch-diagonal screen.
它的银幕也被巧妙地伪装起来了。伯努瓦绕着一丛修剪整齐的迷迭香走了一圈，然后停在一个窗框形状的格子架前。他把手伸到头顶上的装饰梁后方，拉下来一块对角91英寸（约合2.3米）的银幕。
The rosemary released a puff of perfume where he had brushed against it. Sitting on the chaise longue, made out of wood salvaged from Ms. Gordon’s old futon, you could see the foliage shadowing the bottom inch of the screen like a movie curtain.
擦身而过的迷迭香在身上留有余香。院子里放着一张木制躺椅，制作躺椅的木料是从戈登的旧日式床垫中拯救出来的。坐在躺椅上，你就能看到苍翠欲滴的绿叶像剧院的幕布一样遮蔽着银幕底部。
Mr. Benoit has also found a way to backlight the hedge, with a strip of LEDs. “I call it garden stadium lighting,” he said. “There’s not a lot of stylish lighting options out there. I learned to solder to do these.”
伯努瓦还设法用一排LED灯给树篱打上了背光。“我将它称为花园露天照明，”他说，“可供选择的有设计感的照明方案并不多。我为制作这些照明还学会了电焊。”
He added, “I love bringing technology to the garden, too.”
他接着说：“我也喜欢把科技引入到园艺当中。”
The Horticult blog has shaped up to be something of an I.T. project as well. The beauty shots on the right rail of the front page fall under the heading “Plants We’re Loving on Instagram.” And for many species mentioned on the blog, the couple harvests hashtags to aggregate in Instagram galleries. Search the term #octopusagave, for instance, and The Horticult rakes up a scrapbook of undulating leaves.
小两口的园艺博客The Horticult还逐渐形成了一个IT项目。博客头版右侧设有美图专栏，标题为“我们所喜欢的Instagram上的植物”(Plants We’re Loving on Instagram)。对于博客上提到的很多物种，小两口都会通过搜索标签在Instagram的图库中收集美图。比方说，搜索#octopusagave（octopus agave是章鱼龙舌兰——译注），The Horticult就能显示出一个剪贴簿，展示的是龙舌兰叶翻滚的绿浪。
They call this page the Community Garden. But the phrase is somewhat aspirational. There isn’t a lot of personal horticulture going on in the community itself. Dr. Deitch, a professor emeritus of psychiatry at the University of California, San Diego, who has lived on the block for more than 20 years, guessed that only two or three families maintain their own yards.
他们将这个页面称为“社区花园”(Community Garden)。不过目前这个称谓还只是个梦想。这片社区里亲自料理园艺的家庭并不多。加州大学圣迭戈分校的精神病学名誉教授戴奇已在这片街区居住了20多年。他猜测这里只有两、三户人家在自己打理庭院。
In La Jolla, as in so many other fashionable neighborhoods, gardening is something you pay someone else to do.
在拉霍亚(La Jolla)，和许多其它时髦社区一样，居民们都是雇别人来打理园艺的。
The last time Mr. Benoit checked Zillow, their rental property was estimated to be worth $1 million. “Ideally, we’d like to be able to own this place,” he said.
伯努瓦最近一次登陆Zillow（一个免费的房地产估价网站——译注）时，发现他们租来的房产估价为100万美元（约合人民币609万美元）。“如果情况理想，我们希望能买下这套房子。” 他说。
Ms. Gordon said, “We go to open houses.”
戈登说：“我们会把房子开放参观。”
Their friends wonder aloud, "Why are you doing all this to a yard that isn’t yours?” Mr. Benoit said. “In truth, 90 percent of this stuff is coming with us.”
他们的朋友们都会大声惊叹，“这又不是你们自己的院子，干嘛要这么花心思？”伯努瓦说，“事实上，其中90%的设施都是可以直接带走的。”
The built-ins could be termed built-outs. Almost all the furniture is modular or sits on wheels. Everything moves: the Preway fireplace (Craigslist, $300), the outdoor kitchen with the sink and cabinets, even the deck. “Most of this stuff I can have in the driveway in three hours,” he said.
固定设施也可以变为可移动设施。几乎所有家具都是可拼装或带轮子的。所有东西都可挪动：无论是Preway壁炉（在Craigslist网站上卖300美元，约合人民币1828元），还是带水池和橱柜的室外厨房，无一例外，就连露天平台也是。“我可以在三小时内将这里的大多数东西放进车里。” 伯努瓦说。
Ms. Gordon served homemade cantaloupe ice pops, with garden mint that grows in their ammo-can herb planters. The garden lights were glowing, and bossa nova was humming from the outdoor speakers. Mr. Benoit was drinking riesling now. And the “babes” rolled off the tongue with a Parisian lilt, bébé.
戈登端上自制的哈密瓜冰棍，佐之以花园里种的薄荷，种薄荷的容器是由弹药箱改造来的香草种植盆。花园里灯光闪烁，户外音箱中轻柔地播放着波萨诺瓦(bossa nova)。伯努瓦正喝着雷司令(riesling)酒。“宝贝”从他的嘴里说出来，也带了点巴黎腔：“bébé”。
The couple has designed the yard for entertaining, sure. But at a certain point in the evening, it seemingly becomes something else: the couple’s private nightclub.
夫妇俩设计这座庭院是为了休闲娱乐，这毋庸置疑。不过在夜幕降临后，一旦过了某个时间点，这处场所似乎就摇身一变，成为了夫妇俩的私人夜店。
It was 1 a.m. when Mr. Benoit finally rose from the picnic table and wandered off to someplace totally unexpected. For the first time in six hours, he stepped inside the house.
凌晨一点，伯努瓦终于从野餐桌边站起身来，游荡到一个完全令人意想不到的地方。在这六个小时当中，他第一次走进屋里。