ABUJA, Nigeria — As word spread like wildfire on Twitter and Facebook that Nigerian militants were preparing to auction off more than 200 kidnapped schoolgirls in the name of Islam, a very different Internet network started quietly buzzing too.
尼日利亚阿布贾——在Twitter和Facebook上，尼日利亚武装分子打算以伊斯兰教的名义拍卖超过200名被绑架女学生的消息，正以燎原之势扩散，与此同时，在一个截然不同的网络论坛上，相关讨论也悄然活跃起来。
“Such news is spread to taint the image of the Mujahedeen,” wrote one dubious poster on a web forum used by Islamic militants whose administrator uses a picture of Osama bin Laden. “I have brothers from Africa who are in this group,” attested another, insisting that they were like “the Quran walking the earth.”
“传播此类消息是在诋毁圣战者的形象，”在伊斯兰主义激进分子常用的一个网络论坛上，一位身份不明的发帖者说。该论坛的管理员使用了一张奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的照片作为头像。另一用户附和说，“我有几个非洲的兄弟就在这个组织”，并声称，他们就像是“行走在世间的古兰”。
Boko Haram, the cultlike Nigerian group that carried out the kidnappings, was rejected long ago by mainstream Muslim scholars and Islamist parties around the world for its seemingly senseless cruelty and capricious violence against civilians. But this week its stunning abduction appeared too much even for fellow militants normally eager to condone terrorist acts against the West and its allies.
实施绑架的尼日利亚博科圣地(Boko Haram)类似于一个邪教组织。由于它的无谓残酷和对平民肆意施暴，该组织很早以前就已经被全世界主流的穆斯林学者和伊斯兰主义政党所否定。即使在那些热盼着对西方及其盟友实施恐怖活动的激进分子看来，这周发生的举世震惊的绑架事件也过于极端。
“There is news that they attacked a girls’ school!” another astonished poster wrote on the same jihadi forum, suggesting delicately that Boko Haram may perhaps be killing too many noncombatants instead of armed enemies. He prayed that God would “hold them steady to the path” of Islam.
在这个圣战论坛上，另一个无比震惊的发帖者说，“有消息说，他们袭击了一所女校！”并表示博科圣地目前正在杀害大量非战斗人员，而不是拥有武器的敌人。这名发帖者祈祷说，真主将会“让他们回归伊斯兰教的正途”。
The dismay of fellow jihadists at the innocent targets of Boko Haram’s violence is a reflection of the increasingly far-flung and ideologically disparate networks of Islamist militancy, which now include the remnants of Bin Laden’s puritanical camps, Algerian cigarette smugglers and a brutal Somalian offshoot.
即便是其他圣战者也对博科圣地的滥杀无辜感到失望，这反映出，伊斯兰武装力量的网络越来越广泛，意识形态也越发分散。这个群体目前包括本·拉登的原教旨主义营地残余势力，阿尔及利亚的烟草走私者，以及一个凶残的索马里分支。
“The violence most of the African rebel groups practice makes Al Qaeda look like a bunch of schoolgirls,” said Bronwyn Bruton, an Africa scholar at the Atlantic Council in Washington. “And Al Qaeda at this point is a brand — and pretty much only a brand — so you have to ask yourself how they are going to deal with the people who are doing things so hideous even the leaders of Al Qaeda are unwilling to condone them.”
华盛顿大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)的非洲问题学者布朗温·布鲁顿(Bronwyn Bruton)说，“和多数非洲叛乱组织的暴力活动相比，基地组织简直成了一群小女生。现在，基地组织是一个品牌——很大程度上也只是一个品牌——所以你不得不思考，他们将如何处理这些这群人，他们的令人憎恶的行径甚至连基地组织的领导人也不愿意宽恕。”
Boko Haram is in many ways an awkward ally for any of them. Its violence is broader and more casual than Al Qaeda or other jihadist groups. Indeed, its reputation for the mass murder of innocent civilians is strikingly inconsistent with a current push by Al Qaeda’s leaders to avoid such deaths for fear of alienating potential supporters. That was the subject of the dispute that led to Al Qaeda’s recent break with its former affiliate, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
从许多方面来看，博科圣地对上述组织来说都是一个令人尴尬的盟友。与基地组织或其他圣战组织相比，其暴力活动范围更广，更加肆无忌惮。事实上，博科圣地大规模杀害无辜平民的做法，与基地领导人目前避免此类屠杀行为的努力背道而驰。而基地组织这样做是为了防止疏远潜在的支持者。基地组织最近与前附属组织伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国度(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)决裂，其争议的焦点就是基地组织的过多杀戮。
First formed in the early 2000s, Boko Haram grew out of an ultraconservative Islamic movement of well-educated students. The group grew overtly political only later, under the leadership of its charismatic founder, Mohamed Yusuf.
博科圣地创立于本世纪初，最初是一个极端保守的伊斯兰组织，由受过良好教育的学员组成。后来，在富有个人魅力的创始人穆罕默德·优素福(Mohamed Yusuf)的领导之下，该组织的政治色彩才变得如此浓厚。
Its nickname in the African language of Hausa, Boko Haram, is usually roughly translated to mean that “deceptive” or “Western” education is “forbidden.” But scholars say that the phrase had a kind of double meaning that was at once religious and social in the context of northern Nigeria.
在非洲的豪萨语中，博科圣地的名字通常可以粗略翻译成，“欺骗性的”或“西式的”教育是“被禁止的”。但一些学者说，这个句子在尼日利亚北部的语境下同时具备宗教和社会的双重含义。
Western education was available only to a very small elite who typically traveled to British universities and then returned to rule from the capital over the impoverished North, and ending the tyranny of that elite was the main objective of Mr. Yusuf’s movement.
在尼日利亚，只有少数精英能够接受到西方教育，他们一般在英国的大学留学，然后回国加入统治阶级，对贫穷的北方地区实施统治。结束这些精英的独裁统治，是优素福领导的博科圣地的主要目标。
Mr. Yusuf and Boko Haram tapped into growing anger among northern Nigerians at their poverty and lack of opportunity as well as the humiliating abuses of the government’s security forces, said Paul Lubeck, a professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, who studies the group. At first, even as Boko Haram turned to violent opposition to the government, the group avoided civilian casualties.
加州大学圣克鲁斯分校(University of California, Santa Cruz)教授保罗·吕贝克(Paul Lubeck)一直在研究这个组织。他说，尼日利亚北部民众对贫穷、缺乏机会以及政府安全部队的欺凌越来越不满，优素福和博科圣地正是利用了这一点。博科圣地在刚开始使用武力反抗政府时，一直是避免伤害平民的。
“They generated a lot of support because they didn’t kill many innocent people,” Professor Lubeck said.
吕贝克教授说，“由于没有滥杀无辜，他们赢得了很多支持。”
That changed in July, 2009, after about 70 Boko Haram fighters armed with guns and hand grenades attacked a mosque and police station in the town of Bauchi. About 55 people were killed in the battle, according to an American diplomatic cable about the episodes that was later released by WikiLeaks.
这种情况在2009年7月发生改变，当时，70名博科圣地的武装分子用枪和手榴弹袭击了包奇市的一座清真寺和警察局。根据维基解密(WikiLeaks)公开的美国外交电文，大约55人在冲突中死亡。
The next day, Nigerian security forces retaliated with a brutal crackdown that killed more than 700 people, including many innocent bystanders. Security officers paraded Mr. Yusuf before television cameras and then summarily executed him in front of a crowd outside a police station — an episode that the group’s adherents often recall with horror as the decisive moment in their turn to wider violence.
第二天，尼日利亚安全部队为实施报复发动了残酷的镇压，导致超过700人死亡，包括许多无辜的旁观者。安全官员在电视镜头前将优素福示众，然后，在一个警察局外迅速将其处决——博科圣地的支持者常常惊恐地回忆起这一幕，他们认为，这在他们转向大规模暴力的过程中起了决定性作用。
In late 2010, under the new leadership of Abubaker Shekau, formerly the group’s second in command, Boko Haram begun staging more lethal attacks.
2010年末，在新的领导人阿布巴卡尔·谢考(Abubakar Shekau)的领导下，博科圣地开始发动更多袭击。谢考之前是组织的二号人物。
Instead of throwing hand grenades or gas-bombs, Boko Haram’s fighters began to conduct a campaign of assassinations by gunfire from motorcycles. (The government ultimately banned motorcycles form the areas where they were active.) They also drove pickup trucks mounted with artillery. The vehicles, Nigerian officials say, were traded out of Libya after the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
博科圣地的武装分子放弃了投掷手榴弹或者毒气弹的做法，开始了一场骑摩托车开枪暗杀的运动。（政府后来在博科圣地组织的活跃地区禁止了摩托车。）他们还驾驶装有火炮的皮卡发动袭击。尼日利亚官员说，这些车辆是在穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)倒台之后从利比亚买来的。
And Boko Haram became increasingly indiscriminate. Mr. Shekau, the leader who claimed to be in communication with God, said that the sole purpose of its violence was to demonstrate the incapacity of the Nigerian state. “Shekau initiated this brutal killing of innocent people,” Mr. Lubeck said.
博科圣地越来越任意妄为。声称与神保持着联系的领袖谢考说，其暴力活动的唯一目的是证明尼日利亚政府的无能。“是谢考发起了对无辜民众的残忍杀戮，”吕贝克说。